pipes, oumtnly ANPuLENeuA». 


~ 


aA 


THE 


GARDENERS MAGAZINE, 


CONDUCTED 


By J.C. LOUDON, F.L.S. H.S. &c. 


AUTHOR OF THE ENCYCLOPEDIAS OF GARDENING, OF AGRICULTURE, AND OF COTTAGE, FARM 
AND VILLA ARCHITECTURE, AND EDITOR OF THE ENCYCLOPZIDIA OF PLANTS, 


LONDON: 


PRINTED FOR 
LONGMAN, REES, ORME, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMAN, 
PATERNOSTER-ROW. 


1834. 


LonpDon : 


Printed by A. Spotriswoopr, 
New-Street-Square. 


PREFACE. 


I this Tenth Volume we have complied with the unanimous request 
of our readers, and with the spirit of the times, in bringing out the 
Gardener's Magazine monthly and at a reduced price; and the suc- 
cess of this measure, we are happy to say, has fully answered our 
expectations. 


The improvements which we contemplate in the succeeding 
Volumes are as follows: —1. An occasional article to be headed 
Pomological Notices, or Notices of new Fruits deserving, or seeming 
to deserve, general cultivation; 2. Olitorial Notices, or Notices of 
new Culinary Vegetables, either originated in this country, or intro- 
duced from other countries, which seem to merit, or have been proved 
to deserve, general introduction in kitchen-gardens; and 3. Arbori- 
cultural Notices, or Notices of new species or varieties of hardy Trees 
or Shrubs, useful or ornamental, which merit a place in shrubberies 
or pleasure-grounds, as hedge plants, or in useful plantations. 


To aid us in perfecting these Notices, the Council of the Horticul- 
tural Society of London have kindly granted us permission to apply, 
from time to time, for information, to their head gardener, Mr. Munro, 
and to their fruit-gardener, Mr. Thompson ; and we have received the 
same indulgence from the Council of the Caledonian Horticultural 
Society, with reference to their head gardener, Mr. Barnet. We have 
directed the attention of all our foreign correspondents to these stand- 
ing articles; and we earnestly request the assistance of the secretaries 
of all horticultural societies, of the curators of all botanic gardens, of 
all nurserymen, domestic and foreign, and, in short, of every gardener 
and amateur of gardening, in order that we may render them as com- 
plete as possible. 


We intend, in future Numbers of this Magazine, to direct particularly 
the attention of our readers to the more general distribution of foreign 
hardy trees and shrubs in our pleasure-grounds and plantations. We 
cannot help regretting that the taste of amateurs should be so much 
absorbed in the acquisition of temporary novelties, chiefly of herbaceous 

A 2 


iV PREFACE. 


flowering plants, or of plants requiring the protection of glass; while 
many trees and shrubs that have been long in the country, though 
they are as little known as if they had never been introduced, and 
which would contribute to the permanent ornament and improvement 
of country seats, are suffered to remain uncalled for in our nurseries. 
- Thus, while considerable sums, all over the country, are given for a 
new florist’s flower, a new variety of camellia, or a hybrid calceolaria, 
which require the most assiduous care and attention to prevent them 
from degenerating, and which are, perhaps, lost the year after they 
are received, those more noble objects, foreign hardy trees and shrubs, 
which are less expensive to purchase, require far less care in culture 
and management, and which, when once established, will increase every 
year in size and in beauty, and will remain useful and ornamental 
objects on an estate for generations, are comparatively neglected. Of 
a taste for fine flowers and a taste for fine trees and shrubs, it surely 
will not be denied that the latter is of a far more elevated kind than 
the former. It is more elevated, because it is more useful, more 
durable, and more influential on the general face of the country ; and 
because it not only affords enjoyment to the possessor and the close 
observer, but to every one for whom landscape scenery has any attrac- 
tions. 


One reason why a taste for foreign trees and shrubs is not more 
common among country gentlemen is, the neglect of nurserymen to 
preserve and exhibit, in their nurseries, specimen trees of the more 
uncommon kinds, of eight or ten years’ growth. Were this a general 
practice, the result could not be otherwise than advantageous. To 
compensate, in some measure, for the neglect of nurserymen, and to 
aid in promoting an object which we consider of national importance, 
we have undertaken our Arboretum Britannicwum, which, we con- 
fidently anticipate, will be more useful, both to nurserymen and 
planters of trees, than any work on Arboriculture that has hitherto 
been produced. The plan is altogether original, as will be seen by 
the notices of it in p. 558. and p. 581. 


We have left ourselves no room to expatiate on the contents of the 
present Volume of our Magazine; and have, therefore, only to refer 
our readers to the Table of Contents, in which, under the different 
divisions of the subject, they will find, we are confident, a rich fund of 
instruction and entertainment. In conclusion, we beg to thank, mest 
sincerely, our contributors and our readers, and to solicit a continu- 
ation of their favours. 


Bayswater, Nov. 10. 1834. de Cale 


CONTENTS. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS, 


GENERAL SUBJECT. 

Notes on Gardens and Country Seats, visited 
from July 27. to September 16., during a Tour 
through Part of Middlesex, Berkshire, Buck- 
inghamshire, Oxfordshire, Wiltshire, Dorset- 
shire, Hampshire, Sussex, and Kent. By the 
Conductor - = 1.97. 193. 245. 301. 413. 469 

A short Account of a Jate Journey through Bel- 
gium and Part of France in the Autumn of 
1833, by Joseph Knight, Esq. F.H.S. Com- 
municated by Mr. Knight - - - 

Investigation of the Theory of the Rotation of 
Crops. By the Authox of the ‘‘ Domestic Gar- 
dener’s Manual,’? C.M.H.S. = - 12 

On the Scientific Management of Hot-houses, so 
far as it regards Temperature. By Scientiz et 
Justitiz Amator - - oo iS 

Description of a portable Hot-water Apparatus. 
By Mr. Joshua Major, Landscape-Gardener 
and Garden Architect - - - Q1 

Remarks on the State of Gardening in the Neigh- 
bourhood of Ramsgate. By Calycanthus - 119 

Notices of some Country Seats in the North- 
Eastern Counties of England, By G. W. ty 

94 

On the Advantages which Gardeners may derive 
from inspecting the Gardens of others; and on 
the Destruction of different Insects. By R. T. 

122 

Notice of a Hot-water Apparatus, invented by 
Mr. John Darkin, Engineer, Norwich. By 
Mr. Darkin . - - - 302 

On the different Modes of Budding ; and of Her- 
baceous, or Summer, Grafting 5 - 304 

Notes made during a _ Professional Journey 
through Belgium and Part of France, for the 
House of Messrs. Low and Company, Nursery- 
men, Clapton, in March and April, 1834. By 
Mr. William Garvie, Foreman in the Clapton 
Nursery - = - - 357. 419 

Short Notices of the Gardens at Ravensworth 
Castle, the Seat of Lord Ravensworth ; and of 
Gibside, the Seat of —— Bowes, Esq. M.P. for 
South Durham. By G. W. - - 363 

On the Importance, to Gardeners, of visiting 
Gardens; and on the Restrictions, in some 
Cases, thrown in the Way of their doing so. 
By Scientia et Justitie Amator - - 365 

An Experiment made with a view to determine 
the Efficacy of Oxalic Acid in stimulating dor- 
mant Vegetable Life. By William Hamilton, 
Esq. M.D. : - - - 368 

On Live Moss as a Substitute for Potsherds, 
Cinders,.and similar Matters, as Drainings for 
Pots. By Mr. Thomas Parkins - - 369 

Notices of the State of Gardening in Part of 
France, as observed in a recent Excursion in 
that Country. By Mr. George Charlwood, 
Seedsman, Covent Garden = - 473 

Observations made during a Horticultural Tour 
through the Eastern Part of the County of 


Fife. By Mr. William Smith, Gardener to 
John Small, Esq., the Priory, St. Andrew’s, 
Fifeshire = - - - 525 


LANDSCAPE-GARDENING AND GAR. 
DEN ARCHITECTURE. 

On the different Kinds of Fountains adapted to 
Gardens, By William Mason, Jun. Esq. 23 
Design for a Gardener’s House, adapted for the 
South Wall of a Kitchen-Garden. By Mr. Ro- 
bertson, Architect - - 24 
Descriptive Notice of the Garden of the Rev. 
Thomas Garnier, at Bishopstoke Vicarage, 
Hampshire. By the Conductor - - 124 
Observations on the Landscape-Gardening of 
Germany, as compared with that of England. 
By the Chevalier Charles Sckell, Director-Ge- 
neralof Gardens in the Kingdom of Bavaria 197 
Remarks on the Leafing of Oak Trees, and the 
Tints of the early Foliage. By the Rev. W. T. 
Bree, A.M. - - - - 200 
On producing Picturesque Effect in Plantations, 
as well as Shelter and Profit. By Mr. T. ae 


A Series of Designs for laying out Kitchen-Gar- 
dens. By Mr. T. Rutger. Design 1., Contain= 
ing an Acre within the Walls, 259. ; Design 2., 
Containing an Acre within the Walls, and 
Half an Acre in the Slips, 313.; Design Shoo 
Containing an Acre and a Half within the 
Walls, and about the same Quantity in the 
Slips, 373; Design 4., Containing Two Acres 
within the Walls, and an Acre and a Half in 
the Slips, 429; Design 5., Containing nearly 
Three Acres within the Walls, and an Acre 
and a Quarter in the Slips, 485; Design 6., 
Containing Three Acres and a Half within the 
ale and Two Acres and a Half in the Slips, 
OF. 

Design for a Gardener’s House, adapted for the 
North-Fast Angle of a walled Kitchen-Garden. 
By Mr. Robertson - 261 

Strictures on disposing Plants in Masses. By 
Calycanthus 5 - = - 263 

On the distinguishing Characters of Trees, con- 
sidered with regard to Landscape-Gardening. 
By Mr. T. Rutger = - - 370 

Hints on Landscape-Gardening, on the Use of 
Botanical Rarities in Picturesque Scenery, and 
on the Size and Arrangement of Flower-Gar- 
dens. By Calycanthus - - - 3/2 

Design for a Gardencr’s House, for the North. 
West Angle of a walled Kitchen-Garden. By 
Mr. Robertson - 2 - - 375 

Considerations on the various Modes of con- 
structing Forcing-Houses, relatively to the 
Degree of Heat to be obtained in them from 
the Sun’s Rays. By Mr. George M‘Leish 376 

On the improper Choice that is frequently made 
of Trees and Shrubs for furnishing small Por- 
tions of Pleasure-Grounds, By Mr. T. Rutger 

477 

Hints on Shrubbery and Ornamental Planting. 
By Charles Lawrence, Esq. = - 479 

On Wooden Rustic-work as Garden Ornaments. 
By Selim = = - - 485 

On the Employment of Vases as Receptacles for 
Plants in Town Gardens ; with some Remarks 
on their Use in Garden Scenery in the Country. 
By the Conductor ° = - 489 

A Description of the Moss House in the Flower- 
Garden at Bagshot Park. Designed and exe- 
cuted by Mr. Andrew Toward, Gardener to 
Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Glouces- 
ter. Communicated by Mr. Toward - 5382 


ARBORICULTURE. 


On adopting a regular Plan in forming Plant- 
ations, with a view to facilitating their after 
Management, By Charles Lawrence, Esq. 26 

On the Trees and Shrubs which are most suit- 
able for Planting, to afford Food and Shelter 
for Game, and more especially for the Phea- 
sant. By Mr. James Munro = - 431 

Brief Observations on preparing the Ground for 
Planting, on Pruning, and on the Cultivation 
of Trees for Timber. By Mr. Geo. Burton 378 

Notice of a remarkable Ash Tree at Kincairney, 
in Perthshire. By Mr. A. Gorrie, F.H.S. C.S. 
&e. : - - - - 584 

On raising Plantations near the Sea. By Mr. T. 
Rutger - - - - 495 

On Pruning Forest Trees; and on Planting and 
Managing Belts of Trees. By Mr. T. Rutger 

539 

On the Rot in Larch; with Information on the 
Dimensions of the Layers of Wood produced 
in the Annual Growth of the Larch Tree, in a 
Series of Years, in connection with a State- 
ment of the Quantity of Rain which fell in 
each of those Years. By Mr. A. Gorrie, F.H.S. 
C.S. &c. - - - - 544 


FLORICULTURE. 
Considerations on the evil Effects of exposing 
Green-house Plants to the open Air of Britain 
during the Summer Months, By Mr. Robert 
Marnock - - - ~ 3l 


V1 


A Notice of certain Conditions in connection 
with which Rhododendrons have been found 
to grow and flower very satisfactorily. By Mr. 
John Gow - - - - _- 33 

Floricultural Memoranda. By Mr. T. Rivers, 
Jun., Sawbridgeworth, Herts - - 131 

A Note on the Culture of /xie and Gladioli. 
By Mr. T. Rutger - - - 134 

The Result of Experiments tried with Coal Cin- 
ders as Drainage for Pots. By Mr. Henry 
Turner, Curator of the Botanic Garden, Bury 
St. Edmunds = - = - 134 

Description of a Machine for removing Orange 
Trees and other Plants in large Tubs or Boxes. 
By Mr. John Davidson, Gardener to the Mar- 
quess of Ailsa, at St. Margaret’s, Middlesex 156 

A Sketch of a Flower-Garden, with Remarks. 
By Mr. T. Rutger = - - 204 

On planting Cape Ericas in the free Soil, and 
sheltering them with a sashed Frame. By Mr. 
Robertson, Nurseryman, of Kilkenny - 206 

On growing Ferns and other Plants in Glass 
Cases, in the midst of the Smoke of London ; 
and on transplanting Plants from one Country 
to another, by similar Means. By N. B. Ward, 
Esq. F.L.S. - - S - 207 

Descriptive Notice of the Gardens of the Misses 
Garnier, at Wickham, near Fareham, in Hamp- 
shire ; by the Conductor: with a Monthly Ca- 
lendar of the Work dene, and of the principal 
Flowers produced ; by Mr. James Moore, Gar- 
dener to the Misses Garnier == 209) 


HORTICULTURE. 

Description of the Lime, Citron, Orange, and 
Lemon Trees at Coombe ‘Royal, the Seat of 
John Luscombe, Esq., Devonshire. Commu- 
nicated by the Proprietor = - 36 

On-training the Peach Tree. By Mr. Edward 
Callow, Author of a Treatise on the Cultivation 
of the Mushroom 5 = o = Sy 

A successful Mode of securing a Crop of Fruit 
on Pear Trees. By Mr. B. Saunders, Nursery- 
man in the Island of Jersey = - 40 

On growing large Gooseberries for Exhibition. 
By Mr. M. Saul - - - 42 

On propagating the Purple Broccoli from Slips, 
and on the Agency of Manure prepared from 
Sea Weed in improving various Vegetables. 
By My. T. Rutger = S - 42 

On the Mode of securing a supply of young Car- 
rots throughout the Year. By Mr. T. Rutger 44 

Remarks on the Cultivation of Sea-kale, as prac- 
tised by the Bath Gardeners. By Walter Wm. 
Capper, Esq. 3 5 - 45 

On the premature Shriveling of Grapes in Forc- 
ing-Houses. By Mr. J. D. Parkes, F.H.S., Nur- 
seryman, Dartford - - a 1ey/ 

On the Coiling System of cultivating the Vine in 
Pots. By Mr. John Mearns, F.H.S., Gardener 
to His Grace the Duke of Portland, Welbeck, 
Nottinghamshire - e = 138 

A Defence of the Practice of Cropping the Bor- 
ders in which Wall-Fruit Trees grow ; and 


CONTENTS. 


various Considerations in relation to the Cul- 
ture of Wall-Fruit Trees. By Mr. John Mearns, 
F.HLS. - - - 141 
On forcing Asparagus; by Mr. T. Rutger: with 
an Account of the French Method, translated 
from the ‘* Bon Jardinier ” for 1834 - 146 
On the Management of the Vinery. By a Young 
Gardener - - - - 221 
Notes on the Cultivation of the Peach Tree. By 
Mr. James Hart - - = 222 
On the Laying out and Planting of Fruit-Gar- 
dens. By Mr. John Jennings, of the Shipton 
upon Stour Nursery - -  _- 224 
On Defects in the Management of Fruit Trees. 
By Mr. Robert Errington - - 264 
Notes on Vines and Vineries. By An Expe- 
rienced Grape-Grower - - - 266 
Notice of some Modes of training Wall Trees, 
practised in the Gardens of Hopetoun House. 
By Mr. James Smith, Gardener there —_~ 267 
On the Culture of the Onion by Sowing and 
Transplanting. By Mr. Wm. Taylor, Gardener, 
Liverpool : - - - 268 
On taking up the Roots of the Scarlet Runner 
in the Autumn, preserving them through the 
Winter, and replanting them in Spring. By 
Mr, James Cuthill, Gardener to Lawrence Sul- 
livan, Esq., Broom House, Fulham - 315 
On Fruits and Fruit Trees. By Mr. T. Rivers, 
Jun. - = = - 316 
On the Culture of the Cucumber at Stoke Place, 
with a Ground Plan and Elevation of the Pits 
in Use there. By Mr. Patrick - - 386 
On the Culture of the Cucumber during the 
gloomy Months of Winter. By Mr. James 
Young, Gardener to J. Pulteney, Esq., Norther- 
wood, New Forest, Hants - - 388 
On the Cultivation of Potatoes, the Cause of the 
Curl, and the Manner of keeping and preparing 
the Sets. By W. M. - = - 433 
An Account of a Mode of cultivating Potatoes 
in the Neighbourhood of Aberdeen ; preceded 
by some Remarks on the Potato Culture of 
the Neighbourhood of Dublin. By Mr. James 
Wright, Gardener at Westfield, near Aber- 
deen = = - - 435 
A Method of expediting the Fruiting of Kidney- 
beans in the open Air; and a Mode of obtain- 
ing a Second Crop from those forced in the 
Stove. By Mr. James Cuthill, Gardener to 
Lawrence Sullivan, Esq., at Broom House, Ful- 
ham ie 2 ae - 438 
A Diary of the Course of Culture applied to the 
Grape Vines at Oakhill, East Barnet, in Herts. 


By A. Forsyth - 5 - 547 
On the Culture of Persian Melons. By a Hert- 
ford Journeyman Gardener - - 550 


On Protecting and Preserving Fruit Trees. By 
Mr. James Eaton, Gardener to the Earl of Il- 
chester, at Melbury, Dorsetshire ~ - 552 

On the Method of growing Mushrooms practised 
at Stoke Place, with a Plan of the Mushroom 
House there. By Mr. Andrew Patrick - 554 

Short Communications ~- 148, 225. 389. 459, 499 


REVIEWS. 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society of Lon- 
don. Second Series. Vol. I. Part III. 226. 500 
1. Paxton’s Magazine of Botany and Register of 
Flowering Plants. 2. Maund’s Botanic Garden. 
3. Harvison’s Floricultural Cabinet. 4. Har- 
yison’s Gardener’s and Forester’s Record. 
5. Paxton’s Horticultural Register - 230 
The Physiology of Plants, or the Phenomena and 
Laws of Vegetation = es - 269 
Ladies’ Botany; or, a Familiar Introduction to 
the Study of the Natural System of Botany. By 
John Lindley, Ph.D. F.R.S. &c. = - 390 
Hooker’s Journal of Botany, &c. Part III. 391 
Royle’s Illustrations of the Botany and other 
Branches of the Natural History of the Hima- 
layan Mountains, and of the Flora of Cash- 
mere, &c.. Part Lil. - - = 392 
Transactions of the Agricultural and Horticul- 
tural Society of India = = - 440 
L’Horticulteur Belge, Journal des Jardiniers et 
Amateurs - - - - 444 
Elements of Practical Agriculture ; comprehend. 


Literary Notices = - 


ing the Cultivation of Plants, the Husbandry 
of the Domestic Animals, and the Economy of 
the Farm. By David Low, Esq. F.R.S.E., Pro- 
fessor of Agriculture in the University of Edin- 
burgh = co = - 447 
An Inquiry into the Causes of the Fruitfulness 
and Barrenness of Plantsand Trees. By Joseph 
Hayward, Esq. - - - 500 
Report of the Exhibition of Agricultural Pro- 
ductions, new Implements, &c., at the Premises 
of Dickson and Turnbull, Perth - 504 
A new Descriptive Catalogue of Roses, By T. | 
Rivers and Son, Nurserymen, Sawbridgeworth, 


Herts - - - - 509 
Arboretum Britannicum. By J. C. Loudon, 
F.L.S. H.S. &c. 2 = - 558. 581 


Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, 
Botany, Rural Architecture, &c., lately pub- 
lished, with some Account of those considered 
the most interesting - 49. 149. 232. 270. 319. 


448. 
- 51, 156. 449 


LIST OF ENGRAVINGS. 


Vil 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


General Notices - 53. 233, 272. 321. 393. 450, bis. 
56 
Foreign Notices = 54. 157. 234. 272. 322. 516. 569 
Domestic Notices - 56. 160. 234. 273. 323. 394. 451. 
516. 571. 587 
Floricultural and Botanical Notices of new Plants, 
and of old Plants of Interest, supplementary to 
the latest Editions of the “ Encyclopedia of 
Plants,”’ and of the ‘* Hortus Britannicus ” 
63. 169. 237. 284. 347. 399. 458. 511. 564. 583 
Retrospective Criticism - 73. 179. 240. 289. 350. 
405. 520. 573 
Queries and Answers - 80. 181. 242. 294. 353. 408. 
462. 576. 


INDEX to Books reviewed and monies = 


GENERAL INDEX - 


Arboretum Britannicum ; or, Portraits, to a Scale 
of a Quarter of an Inch to a Foot, of all the 
Trees which endure the Open Air in Britain 581 

London Horticultural Society and Garden - 188. 

244. 298. 355. 410. 468. 523. 579 

Covent Garden Market ~- 84, 191. 243. 297. 354. 

409. 467. 522. 578 

Supplement to the Notices of the Provincial Hor- 
ticultural Societies for 1833 = - - 86 

Notices of the Exhibitions of the Provincial 
Horticultural Societies for 1834 - - 588 

- 96. 192. 300. 412, 468. 


LIST OF ENGRAVINGS. 


No. Page 


OPERATIONS. 


44—55. Illustrations of twelve modes of per- 
forming budding - 305—310 

56—61. Illustrations of six modes of ingraft- 
ing herbaceous plants - - 310—312 
5. A figure of a tree of the white nectarine, 
in exhibition of the effects of a com- 
mended mode of training - - 
37—40, Illustrations of a mode of pruning 
and training apple trees and pear trees 
through six successive years - 267, 268 

6. A diagram exhibitive of a mode of 

blanching sea-kale, and of a mode of 

forcing it - - - 


MEANS OF HEATING. 


23—_34, Diagrams explanatory of modes of 
applying steam, conducted in narrow 
tubes, to the heating of water and beds 
of stones, relatively to the culture of 
plants of various kinds - - 226—229 

43, The plan of an apparatus for heating 
water, and then circulating it - 303 

1, A view of a portable apparatus for heat- 


39 


ing water, and then circulating it a 
PLANS OF GARDENS. 
22. A garden for fruit plants only - - 224 
35. A kitchen-garden to contain 1acre with. 
in the walls - 260 


63. A kitchen-garden to contain 1 acre with- 
in the walls, and half an acre in the 
slips; or, the same quantity to be ap- 
propriated, in part, to a flower-garden, 
the remainder to a kitchen-garden = 

A kitchen-garden to contain 14 acre 
within the walls, and about the same 
quantity in the slips - 

A kitchen-garden to contain 2 acres 
ees the walls, apd 13 acre in the 
slips - 

A eiteheneatden to “contain nearly 
3 acres within the walls, and 13 acre in 
the slips 5 - - 484 

A kitchen-garden to contain 32 acres 
within the walls, and 22 acres in the 
slips 

The flower-garden of the Rev. Thomas 
Garnier, and the disposition of the 
plants in it, at Bishopstoke Vicarage, 
Hampshire - 126, 127 

The flower-garden of the Misses Garnier, 
and the disposition of the plants in a 
at Wickham, Hampshire 

A geometrical flower-garden, half of 
which was once made at Woolmers  - 205 

A flower-garden in the Dutch style, to 
adjoin an entrance = a ih 


70. 


75. 


79; 


95. 


- 538 
11. 


15. 


14, 
62, 


2 
7) 


10, 211 | 


Obituary - 
Calls at Nurseries and Suburban Gardens - 167. 
279. 325, 
- 621 
- - ~ 622 
No. Page 
ARBORICULTURE. 
3. A plan for laying out ground intended to 
be planted with trees designed for 
timber - 7 

4. A plan for the disposition of trees of the 
kinds oak, ash, and larch, in a plant- 
ation = 29 

41. A diagram of the results of leaving trees 
designed for timber unpruned = 293 
42, A diagram of the results of pruning HERS 
designed for timber 93 
88. A sketch illustrative of the effects of 
wind upon plantations of trees growing 
near the coast ci : = 4096 
97. A figure of a tree, as a specimen of the 
figures to be introduced into the A7bo- 
retum Britannicum = - 582 
LANDSCAPES, 
10. A view of the vicarage house, at Bishop- 
stoke, in Hampshire = 125 
69. A view of St. Michael’s Mount, “Cornwall 351 
STRUCTURES. 

2. A design for a gardener’s house adapt- 
able to the south wall of a Stiga 
garden 29 

36, A design for a gardener’ 3 house adapt 
able to the north east aoe of a walled 
kitchen-garden - - 262 

71. A design for a gardener’s house adapt- 
able to the north-west angle of a walled 
kitchen-garden = 375 

72,73. Diagrams of forcing-houses to y exhibit 
the relation of the inclination of their 
roofs to the incidence of the rays of light, 
in illustration of the effects of this upon 
the temperature and light within - 376 

74. The ground-plan and elevation of a pit 
suited to the culture of the cucumber - 387 

96. The ground-plan and a transverse sec- 
tion of a house suited to the cultivation 
of the mushroom in the winter - 557 


89—94. The ground-plan, sections, elevation, 
and details of structure, of the moss- 
house in the flower-garden at Bagshot 
Park - 533—537 

19. A view of a roofed seat ‘lined with moss 
and hazel rods - = 


80. A view of a rustic seat for a garden - 488 

20, 21. Trellised arches for supporting 
climbing plants = 212 

78. A design for a building for the accom- fa 
modation of dogs - - 473 

VASES. 
66. A vase devoid of a plinth - - 826 
67. A vase upon a plinth - - 326 


Viil LIST 
No. Page | 
68. A vase upon a pedestal and plinth - 327 


82—87. Figures of vases designed as recep- 


tacles of plants in town gardens - 490—492 | 


81. A rustic vase of wood as a receptacle 
for plants, and placed upon a tripod 
pedestal, in ornament of a country gar- 
den - = s = - 489 

18. Figures of rustic vases - = 211 

i MACHINE. 
12. A machine for transporting orange trees 


in their large tubs or boxes, and other 
plants alike conditioned = 3 IBIs 


GATES. 

8. A mechanical device for effecting the 
opening of a gate by the pressure of the 
approaching vehicle - | o 

9. A mechanical device for effecting the 


OF CONTRIBUTORS. 


Page 
opening of a gate, by turning a winch 
within a house contiguous to the gate 
7. A fall-down gate-stopper = = 


VARIOUS OBJECTS. 


64. A hook for holding aquatic plants in 
pots, suspended at any required height 
in the water - - os 

65. A sectional view of an aquarium to show 
the application of the mentioned hook 326 

16, 17. Patterns of iron rods for supporting 
rose shrubs, and other shrubs requiring 
support - - - 

13. Figures of earthenware tallies for label- 
ing plants 2 - - 164 

77. An instrument for gathering, singly, 
fruit beyond reach without it = 

76. A dibble for planting potatoes with 
greater despatch than is usual = 437 


No. 


81 
54 


LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 


Abdalonymus, 408. A Constant Reader, 295. 
Adamson, W., jun., 405. Adolescentulus, 163. 
499. A Florist and a Reader, 181. A Hertford 
Journeyman Gardener, 550. Allen, William, 
936. An Admirer of good Gardening, 181. An 
Amateur of Flora, 296. An Asker, 182. An 
Experienced Grape Grower, 266. _ Anon., 241. 
A. S., 499. A Subscriber, 276. 577. A Young 
Gardener, 221. 

B., 570. Ballard, Stephen, 76. Barnard, Frances, 
186. Bateman, James, F.H.S., 572. Baxter, 
William, A.L.S., 289. 350. Bradford, William 
M., 290. Bree, Rev. W. T., M.A., 148. 166. 200. 
941. 291, 299. 296. 439. 572. 575, 576. Brooks, 
John Thomas, 518. Brown, John, 182. 466. 
Browne, Henry A., 55. Burton, George, 378. 

Callow, Edward, 37. Calycanthus, 119. 184. 263. 
372. Calvert, W.C., 575. _ Cameron, David, 
A.L.S., 163. Capper, W. W.,45. Charlwood, 
George, F.L.S.,473. C. L.,154. C. M. W., 354. 
Cockburn, James, 573. Cuthill, James, 315. 438. 

D. B., 55. 295. Darkin, John, 302. Davidson, 
John, 136. Davidson, William, 56. Davis, P., 
408. Denson, J., sen., 576. Dunsford, Wil- 


Eaton, James, 522. E. B., 186. 
E. L., 608. Elliott, G. M., 69. 587. 
Ensor, George, 81. E. P., 186. 
Ephebicus Horticultor, 74. 78. Errington, Ro- 
bert, 264. 

F. 1. 8., 272. Forsyth, A., 547. 

G., 241. Garvie, William, 357. 419. G. C., 
86. 192. 244, 298. 355. 409. 468. 523. 579. 
Geddes, G., 324. Godsall, William, 58. Gorrie, 
Archibald, F.H.S. F.C.H.S., 183 384. 398. 4.57. 
544. Gow,John, 33. G. P., 462. Gracchus 
Colonus, 162. G. W., 120. 194. 363. 

Hamilton, William, M.B., 61. 296. 368. 396. 405. 
453, 454. 577. Hart, James, 222. Haydon, Sa- 
muel, 236. H.B.,185. Hertz, William, 159. 
Hodson, N.S., A.L.S., 166. Howden, John, 293. 


Hoy, J. D., 277. Hurst, William, 453. Huth- 
waite, F., 322. 
J. B., 82. J. B. W., 290. J. D., sen., 66. J. D. 


P., 295. Jennings, John, 224. J.F., 322. J.G., 
181. 296. 300. J. M.,577. J. M., Philadelphia, 
406. 570. J.S.B., 54. J.S. P., 466. Juvenis, 
295, 236. 

Kendall, Henry, 324. Kent, William, 407. 
Knight, Joseph, F.H.S.,7. Knight, T. A., Pre- 
sident of the London Horticultural Society, 74. 


Lawrence, Charles, 26. 465, 466. 479. Lindley, 
Dr. John, 50. L. L. L., 54. Luscombe, John, 


36. 

M‘Leish, George, 376. Maddison, John, 55. 
Major, Joshua, 21. Malcolm, William, F.H.S., 
351. Mallet, Robert, 62,241. Marnock, Ro- 
bert, 31. Mason, William, jun., 23,74. Mearns, 
John, #.H.S., 138. 141.145. Mills, George, 466. 
Mitchinson, James, 242. Moore, James, 209. 
Munro, James, 77. 406. 431. 

N.S. N., 407. 

O. P. Q., 578. 

P.,157. Parkes, J. D., F.H.S., 137. 184. Parkins, 
Thomas, 369. Patrick, Andrew, 386. 554. Phil- 
noe George, 70. P.N., 398. Priest, Myles, 
57. 79. 

R., 80. 452. 520. 571.575. Rauch, C.,323. Redyer, 
W., 575. Rivers, T., jun., 131. 185. 242. 316. 
408. 452. Roberts, James, 466. Roberts, John, 
3899. Robertson, John, architect, 24. 261. 375. 
Robertson, John, Kilkenny, 185. 188. 206. 
Rowan, Martin, 78. R.'T., 83,84. 122. Rutger, 
T., 42. 44. 80. 154. 146. 165. 185. 202. 204, 249. 
259. 294. 296. 313. 353, 354. 370. 373. 429. 477. 485. 
495. 539. 

S., 574. Salter, John, 575. S. A. M., 267. Sang, 
John, 94. Saul, Matthias, 42. 61. 96. 451. 453. 
518. Saunders, B., 40. Scientia et Justitize 
Amator, 18. 270, 295. 365. 465. Sckell,Charles, 
158. 179, 180. Selim, 485. 572. Simson, James, 
520. Smith, James, 267. Smith, John, 188. 
Smith, William, 525. Solus, 82. Stewart, D. 
W., 465. Stewart, John, 572. Strachan, James, 
573. S. W., 236. ; 

T., 296, 395. T. A. B., 59, 60. 80. 82, 83. Taylor, 
William, 268. The Author of The Domestic 
Gardener’s Manual, 12. Thompson, John, 159. 
Thompson, Robert, Lieut.-Col., Royal Engi- 
neers, 56. Thompson, Robert, 518. ‘Toward, 
Andrew, 532. Trevelyan, W. C., F.L.S., 452, 


er Turner, Henry, 134. 179. 188. 518. T, W., 
V., 54. 
W. A., 353. Wallich, N., L.L.D., 272. Ward, 


N. B., F.L.S., 207. 
Wilson, Thomas, 84. 
James, 435. 

&. Y. Z., 295. 

Young, James, 388. 

Zoller, Charles, 323. 


Whiddon, William, 78. 
W. M., 433. Wright, 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 


FEBRUARY, 1834. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Art.I. Notes on Gardens and Country Seats, visited, from July 27. 
to September 16., during a Tour through Part of Middlesex, Berk- 
shire, Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire, W. iltshire, Dorsetshire, Hamp- 
shire, Sussex, and.Kent. By the Conpucror. 


(Continued from Vol. IX. p. 683.) 


CaversHam Park.— Aug. 9. We proceeded to this place 
through the village of Caversham (in which are many beautiful 
cottage gardens), up the hill road, and entered by the back ap- 
proach. We must notice one of the cottage gardens, which has, 
in two angles, formed by small wings projecting from the front 
of the house, two small green-houses in the form of outside 
cupboards, with shelves full of pots of flowers, the glass doors 
being removed. We had never seen anything of this kind before ; 
and we like it, not that we think it in good taste, but because 
it shows such a thorough love of plants. Every one who has 
read the descriptions of the fine old places of England, in 
Whately’s Observations, §c., knows something of Caversham, 
and therefore we shall say nothing of the magnificent mansion, 
containing fifty rooms, and its broad gravelled terrace, 50 ft. 
wide and a furlong in length, on a perfect level. ‘Though the 
mansion is dilapidated within, yet exteriorly it is in good repair. 
The place is worth visiting for the grandeur and beauty of the 
situation of the house, the terrace, and more especially the 
descending approach, which has been so finely described by 
Whately. The pleasure-ground scenery is now entirely over- 
grown, and only to be recognised by a few cedars and other 
trees. The kitchen-garden forms a deplorable ruin; the walls 
Vou. X.— No. 48. B 


2 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats :— 


are overgrown with bushes, the hot-houses leaning in all di- 
rections, the back sheds roofless, and even the gardener’s house, 
which held out till within these few years, uninhabitable. ‘The 
commanding position of the mansion, and the extensive and 
varied prospect seen from it, are the same as they ever have 
been. Among the trees along the descending approach are a 
number of very large maples. 

Comparing Caversham Park with Bear Wood, the situation 
of the house, in the former case, is much more commanding 
than in the latter, because of its greater elevation. The pros- 
pect is also more extensive for the same reason, and because 
at the base of Caversham Park is the broad and extensive valley 
of the Thames. The grandeur and dignity of expression, there- 
fore, of the house at Caversham Park are greater than those of 
the house at Bear Wood. Comparing the grounds of the two 
situations, those of Bear Wood are distinguished by undulations, 
knolls, valleys, and steep banks; those at Caversham, on the 
other hand, present a uniform surface, flat on the upper part of 
the park behind the house, and gently sloping on all the re- 
maining part in front of it. There are, therefore, no sources of 
natural beauty and variety in the grounds at Caversham. When 
once the view from the house has been seen, nothing about the 
place remains worth seeing; nothing invites to further exa- 
mination. 

There is thus an essential difference between these two situ- 
ations; for, though both are grand, but in different degrees, yet, 
in one, the grounds are positively varied and beautiful, while 
those of the other are wholly without either beauty or variety. 
For a constant residence, it is evident that the place containing 
the greatest natural variety and beauty would be by far the more 
desirable, independently altogether of the heightening of these 
beauties by gardening. 

By reflecting on the natural features of Bear Wood and Caver- 
sham, and on their respective capabilities for improvement, the 
reader will see the immense importance, in the choice of a 
country residence, of fixing on one that possesses positive natural 
beauties ; that, unassisted by art of any kind, is capable of affect- 
ing the imagination, and raising the emotions of grandeur, 
sublimity, or beauty. On such a foundation, the art of the land- 
scape-gardener and the architect will work with tenfold effect ; 
whereas, where natural beauty is wholly wanting, though art, 
more particularly in the house, may doa great deal, yet it can 
never supply the deficiencies of nature. There is this disadvan- 
tage, also, in the beauties created by art, that they require con- 
tinual care and expense in order to maintain them; whereas those 
engrafted on nature in a great measure maintain themselves. 

The ride from Reading to Pangbourne, along the banks of 


Caversham Park, Basildon Park. 3 


the Thames, is one of very great beauty. The valley is about 
half a mile in width, bounded on each side by chalk hills, ex- 
hibiting the greatest variety of outline; sometimes clothed with 
grass, and at other times with corn or wood, or crowned by a 
gentleman’s seat. Near Purley is Purley Hall, a place of con- 
siderable beauty, from the undulation of its surface, and the 
judicious disposition of its woods. ‘There are also some beautiful 
cottages with gardens, and some small villas, both at Purley and 
Pangbourne. 

Basildon Park, Sir Francis Sykes, Bart.—'The house, a large 
quadrangular pile with wings, by Carr of York, is placed on a 
piece of table land on the top of a hill, and commands very 
extensive views. ‘The ascent to it is by a very steep approach, 
which is both disagreeable and dangerous. We repeat here, 
what we have frequently stated before, that in no possible case 
need the read to a house be steeper than an inch to a yard. 
The approach here might have been led to the house at that 
rate with the greatest ease, and horses might have trotted up 
and trotted down. ‘There is but very little pleasure-ground, 
and this is placed on one side of the house; but the park and 
farm are of considerable extent. ‘The pleasure-ground has been 
taken care of for many years past by a local labourer, of the 
name of Hillsbury, who appears to have some natural taste for 
laying out flower-beds. He showed us different scroll-like 
shapes which he had laid out, and lamented his ignorance of the 
names of plants and their culture. His master, he said, had 
ordered-him to collect some ‘“ fir apples” (cones), and sow the 
seeds of them, and he would be glad to know the proper season 
for doing so, with the manner of sowing, &c. ‘This shows the 
great necessity of gardeners being reading men, and possessing 
books on the subject of their art. ‘This man is doubtless an 
honest and faithful servant, as he has held his present situation, 
as he told us, nearly 30 years. ‘The kitchen-garden is on the 
side of a hill, facing the east, and contains upwards of four 
acres, with an extensive range of hot-houses; the soil is ex- 
cellent, and the crops abundant, but choked up with weeds, as 
there is no assistance allowed for either the kitchen-garden or 
the pleasure-ground, but a boy. The kitchen-gardener, who is 
also a local labourer, we did not see. We observed heaps of 
leaves and twigs being burned, which we would never suffer 
under any circumstances, as it is throwing away a certain portion - 
of valuable manure. We observed also a paling fence round a 
part ofthe pleasure-ground, with the pales, instead of being 
placed vertically, nailed to the rails at an angle of 45°. ‘The ob- 
ject of this, we were told, is to prevent the entrance of rabbits,. 
which might get between upright pales at the same distance 


apart, but which must necessarily place their bodies in an angular 
B 2 


4 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


position to get through these. This, it is found from experience, 
they cannot readily do. ! 

Mongewell, Uvedale Price, Esq., now occupied by Mrs. Ba- 
thurst. — Our principal object, in visiting this place, was to see 
if there were any remains of the botany and gardening of the 
celebrated Daines Barrington; and of the landscape-garden- 
ing of Major Price, an amateur, who assisted the late Bishop of 
Durham in laying out some part of the grounds here, and who 
laid out Frogmore, and also a small place at Hast Sheen near 
Richmond, the residence of Lord Chief Baron Macdonald. We 
were on the whole disappointed. Nothing remains that can be 
attributed to Daines Barrington, and there is only a small flower- 
garden, which, we were informed, was laid out by Major Price. 
It is an irregular glade, partly surrounded by trees, but open to 
the south, with a walk round it, and the turf varied by roundish 
clumps. Altogether, it is very well designed, and it is kept very 
neatly. The kitchen-garden is under the management of Mr, 
Perry, formerly in business for himself at Leamington: his crops 
of wall fruit are excellent, and the garden seems well managed. 
The peach trees, when in blossom, are protected by beech boughs 
with the leaves on; the branches being cut green, and dried and 
stacked for that purpose, as birch boughs are in some districts. 
The fruit was now covered with cotton wadding, instead of wool, 
to preserve it from the birds. In a conservatory there is a branch 
of Araucdria excélsa planted in the ground, which has attained 
the height of 12 ft.; the stem is half an inch in diameter at 1 ft. 
above the ground, but increases to 1 in. in diameter at about half 
its height. There is a large mass of woody matter at its root, 
from which, we have no doubt, an upright shoot will, sooner or 
later, be produced. ‘The church is close by the house, and near 
the latter are a flower-garden and an opaque-roofed green-house. 
The plants were out, and their place was supplied by a large 
table and several chairs; on the table were bulbs, that the young 
ladies, we were informed, were sorting, naming, and putting 
away in bags for the planting season ; thus occupying themselves 
at once usefully and agreeably. Close by the kitchen-garden we 
met with Mr. Munn, a native of Bedfordshire, who has been 
here 47 years; part of the time as gardener, and the remainder 
as steward and general manager of the estate. He is a fine 
elderly gentleman-like man; and, when we saw him, it being 
evening, he had on his blue apron, with his watering-pot in his 
hand for watering his own garden, and seemed to us a personi- 
fied beau idéal of a gardener of the old school, such as we may 
see in some of the frontispieces to the works of Mawe or Aber- 
crombie. He 1s very intelligent, and, among other interesting 
things, informed us that a sum of money was left for keeping up 
for ever the fine old geometric gardens at Wrest Park, Bedford- 
shire (see III. 245.), where he had been gardener in his youth. 


Mongewell, Walling ford. 5 


This sum, he said, was sufficient to pay 14 men throughout the 
year, and that number would keep the gardens in the highest 
possible order and neatness. As far as we recollect, when we 
saw these gardens in 1826, there were only three or four men 
employed on them, and many parts were then in disorder, and 
going to decay. We hope some one interested in this subject will 
look into it, for the sake of the beauty of the neighbourhood and 
the credit of gardening. It is highly desirable that there should 
be at least one place, in the geometrical style, kept up for ever 
in high order, as a standing specimen of that mode of art. Wrest 
Park, we believe, was one of the very last gardening works of 
London and Wise. 

Wallingtord. — Aug. 10. 'This is a comfortable little town, on 
the site of a Roman station. The ancient fosse forms three 
right-angled sides of a square, of which the Thames is the fourth. 
A few years ago, Wallingford was unknown in the annals of 
gardening; but of late it has become celebrated for florists, of 
whom our esteemed correspondent, the Rev. J. Tyso, constitutes 
the life and soul. Two other florists of eminence, whom we 
visited, are Mr. Allnatt, jun., the son of the mayor of the town, 
and Mr. Clarke, a banker. Mr. Tyso is well known by his 
Catalogue of Ranunculuses, one of the best which has ever been 
published, and of which he has just produced a new edition for 
the year 1833. (See IX. 612.) By this it appears that Mr. Tyso’s 
son is possessed of the same enthusiasm for flowers as his father, 
and that the latter intends, in a very short time, to transfer the 
whole of this department of his occupations to the former. We 
first visited Mr. Tyso’s garden, in which we found the laying of 
carnations in a state of forwardness; the first crop of ranun- 
culus roots was taken up and dried; the second crop was in 
full foliage, but not yet showing flower stems; the collection 
of heartseases was beginning to fade; and the georginas, for 
the greater part, were in bloom. ‘The miscellaneous collection 
of Mr. Tyso’s garden included a select assortment of pelargo- 
niums, a few heaths, some of the newest annuals, and several of 
the better sorts of roses, and other flowering shrubs, such as the 
different noisettes, wistaria, chimonanthus, &c. Mr. Tyso has 
four gardens, of which we saw three. ‘The fourth is a kitchene 
garden. ‘The garden of Mr. ‘T'yso’s residence may be considered 
that of the parsonage-house of the very respectable body (the 
Baptists) to which he belongs, and it is in part used as a burial- 
ground. It was something new to us to see peach trees arranged 
on the walls, and graves and tombstones in the compartments; but 
on expressing our surprise to the reverend occupier, he replied, 
that, if his congregation continued to increase as rapidly as it was 
now doing, the whole of his garden might be occupied in the same 


manner. We were much gratified to learn, from this gentleman, 
-B3 


6 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats. 


that though there are a number of varieties of the protestant 
species of Christianity in Wallingford, yet not only the mem- 
bers but even the clergy of the different congregations all live 
in perfect harmony. We sincerely hope that the period will soon 
arrive when all religions and all clergy shall be placed upon a foot- 
‘ing of equality in every respect, each depending for support on his 
hearers; and, when this is the case, we feel certain that Christian 
harmony will be confirmed in such a manner that neither time 
nor accident shall be able to prevail against it. 

Allnatt, Esq. — The garden of this gentleman surprised 
and delighted us. It contains nearly an acre of seedling hearts- 
ease, and upwards of that extent of seedling georginas. ‘The 
beauty of some of the varieties of heartsease astonished us, not- 
withstanding we had seen the 270 varieties in the Epsom Nur- 
sery, and the select collection of Messrs. Brown at Slough. 
The colour and shading of the petals of some of the varie- 
ties were as superior to those of the common heartsease of 
the gardens, as those of the finest green-edged auriculas are to 
those of the native self-coloured flowers of that plant. As to the 
georginas, we will not speak of them; they are too numerous 
for our circumscribed learning in this flower, and we were lost 
in admiration among them. Mr. Allnatt, jun., cultivates a variety 
of articles besides these two flowers. We saw the same rare 
shrubs and annuals as at Mr. Tyso’s, and a variety of excellent 
practices displayed in the culture of culinary vegetables. For 
example, there were melons of a new variety, grown to a great 
size, in a bed of tan, heated by a lining of dung introduced 
through a porthole in a wall, covered by a shutter, so as to show 
nothing but the luxuriant bed of melons; a tall-growing variety 
of Indian corn in pots, having, from the scitamineous character 
of its foliage, a most Oriental, or Tropical, appearance; the 
Altrincham carrot, grown in rows 18 in. apart, and the carrots 
at the same distance from each other in the rows, the roots 
attaining the thickness ef a man’s thigh, and the length of 3 ft., 
with a vigorously growing top, for feeding cows or other cattle ; 
Spanish and Portuguese onions in rows at the same distances, 
the size enormous; and all other kitchen crops in proportion. 
Mr. Allnatt, sen., has grown on his farm a large quantity of 
Bishop’s dwarf pea, for Mr. Ronalds of Brentford; and he has 
a moderate breadth of that new and valuable field turnip, Dale’s 
hybrid, the bulb of which is said to be as solid and nourish- 
ing 2s a Swedish turnip, and as tender as an early Dutch. 
It is also said to be not in the least degree injured by the frost, 
and it is thought that it will prove to be invaluable for field 
produce in wet soils. The seed of this variety is also for Mr. 
Ronalds; and, if a fourth part of what we heard of this turnip be 
true, it must be a prize of immense value to the farmer. An 
apple called the creeping apple, a variety of the burr-knot kind, 


Journey through Belgium in 1838. 7 


and, like the Carlisle codling, coming early into use both for 
sauce and eating, is a great favourite with Mr. Allnatt; and the 
trees are now, as they are every year, covered with abundance of 
fruit. (See Eincy. of Gard., § 4803. new edit.) We had almost 
forgotten to express our admiration of a long straight walk, bor- 
dered on each side with a row of China asters, and beyond these 
by three rows of georginas, the first row dwarfs, the second 
higher, and the third highest ; also of dung hot-beds, the sides of 
which were thatched with drawn rye straw, kept close to the 
dung with rods and hooks, in order to prevent the escape of 
heat and moisture, to exclude the external rains, and to produce 
a neat appearance. 

The Garden of Clarke, Esq., contains a superb collection 
of seedling georginas; an assortment of heartseases, and a good 
collection of heaths. Mr. Clarke is an enthusiastic cultivator of 
the first-named flower, and grows heaths far better than any 
person whom we have seen between Wallingford and Slough. 
Altogether, he is a most enthusiastic florist, and a fit cooperator 


with Mr. Allnatt, jun., and Mr. Tyso. 
(To be continued.) 


Arr. If. A short Account of a late Journey through Belgium and 
Part of France in the Autumn of 1833, by Joseph Knight, Esq. 
F.H.S. Communicated by Mr. Knicur. 

Sir, 

Accorp1NG to your request, I now endeavour to give you a short 
account of my late journey through Belgium and part of France. 
As horticulture is not in so advanced a state in those countries 
as in England, I directed my attention to various other subjects 
as they came in my way. 

I left home on the 11th of October, by way of Dover and 
Calais. Near the latter place, the land is barren, sandy, and 
neglected. Near Gravelines the soil improves, and continues to 
do so on to Dunkirk, where it varies. From thence to burg, we 
found chiefly very rich grazing land. The farmers are indus- 
trious, but poor. ‘The pigs and sheep are of a long-legged 
bony description; the cows and horses are tolerable; the imple- 
ments of husbandry are heavy and inconvenient; the poultry 
is abundant. We next ascended to Mont Cassel, a small town 
considerably elevated, from which the prospect over an extensive 
country is very fine and picturesque: the neighbourhood is much 
undulated, wooded, and interesting to the traveller. 

On the road to Poperingen, the land is rich, crops various, con- 
sisting of wheat, beans, rape, with mangold wurzel, grass, and 
wood: the latter consists of alder, willow, poplar, elm, &c., 


chiefly planted in rows and by the roadside, at from 10ft. to 15ft. 
B 4 


8 Journey through Belgium 


apart. Thetrees selected for planting are from 1} in. to 2 in. in 
diameter: before they are planted, the heads are cut off at about 
8 ft. high. After two or three years’ growth pruning commences, 
and is performed with great judgment and good effect; the timber 
becoming generally straight, to the height of from 30 ft. to 40 ft. 
The practice is, to cut the larger shoots close and smooth, which 
is usually performed in August or September, leaving the smaller 
branches perfect. It is probable that this operation is performed 
every fourth year. In the second pruning the strong shoots 
are cut off close as before, when the smaller branches, before 
left, are also cut off close. This is done with great care, not 
to injure the trunk of the trees, which become, generally, as 
straight as the mast of a ship. The branches are chiefly cut 
upwards with chisels of various sizes, having handles of different 
lengths. This operation is performed with great despatch, ge- 
nerally, I conceive, by two men, one guiding the chisel, and 
the other striking with a mallet, cutting the branches perfectly 
smooth and close to the trunk of the tree: these wounds, in con- 
sequence of being made before the return of the sap, become 
nearly, if not entirely, healed over before the winter. 

[A similar practice will be found accurately described, II. 226. 
and 461. We consider it excellent, and are happy to find it 
confirmed by so intelligent an observer as Mr. Knight. ] 

The cottagers in these parts, though destitute of many do- 
mestic comforts, are much less wretched than in England: ge- 
nerally they are provident, industrious, and economical; but 
few attend to cottage gardening; and, where they do, the produce, 
from want of the best varieties of seeds, and a better manage- 
ment, is but of little value. 

From Poperingen on to Ypres, the land is good: near the 
latter town there is a tolerable nursery-garden for forest trees: 
the land is rich, and the country generally flat. Through Cour- 
tray to near Ghent, the land is rich and well cultivated. Rape 
appears to be an important crop, and is cultivated to a very great 
extent in this country. It is surprising how few indigenous 
birds are to be seen, which is the more extraordinary in a 
country abounding so much with food for them: the sparrows 
are few, the magpies rather numerous, and there is a grey crow 
or rook seen occasionally, 

Near to Ghent there are some market-gardeners, who cultivate 
excellent vegetables, but display little or no taste for neatness or 
regularity. Ghent is a large manufacturing town, abounding in 
nursery-gardens, the cultivators of which are a very industrious 
class of men, but rather limited in the objects of their cultivation. 
They have many good and some rare plants. Magnolias and 
azaleas thrive with them admirably. There is a botanic garden 
here, which may boast more of its antiquity than it can of its 
stock of new plants. 


and Part of France in 1833. 9 


Apples, pears, cherries, plums, &c., thrive well, produce 
abundantly, and remain healthy. ‘The apples are grafted chiefly 
on paradise stocks, the pears on quince stocks, which limits their 
growth, and renders them productive at an early age. ‘The mode 
of culture here, as in France, is worthy of imitation; a well- 
arranged fruit-garden being an object of great profit as well as 
amusement. ‘The trees are planted at 10 ft. or 12 ft. apart, and 
trained and pruned in the pyramidal form, by which means 
abundant crops of good fruit are obtained from small trees. 
Among the conveniences which attend on this mode of training 
may be reckoned, that it allows space to remain for inspecting 
the fruit, and performing all the operations required. 

The pleasure-grounds of the rich here, in Holland, and in 
France, appear meagre and cold, when compared with those of 
England, being nearly destitute of laurels, phillyreas, alaternus, 
arbutus, bays, laurustinus, &c. The general opinion is, that 
these plants will not survive the Continental winters; but I have 
seen some proofs of the contrary, and am of opinion that the 
plants mentioned might be inured to all these countries, and I 
have no doubt but many of the Chinese plants would be found to 
thrive well there ; as camellias, pittosporums, &c. &c. 

Beyond Ghent the land is rather light; but near to and 
beyond Aloste the quality improves, and hops are cultivated. 
About Brussels the country is slightly undulated; the land is 
tolerably good, and the market-gardeners are rather numerous; 
but they are cf the old school, and do not appear desirous to 
improve either in their mode of culture, or in the quality of their 
stock. Brussels sprouts, dwarf savoys, dwarf red cabbage, and 
a few other articles, are very good. ‘There is here a new bo- 
tanie garden, which, in external appearance, is a noble establish- 
ment, and is seen from the Boulevards to great advantage [a 
view of this garden will be found in V. 327, and a ground plan 
and description in VIII. 401.]. The collection of plants is not 
modern, but the director, M. Woters, and the head-gardener, 
M. Bresurs, are both very anxious to improve. 

About four miles from Brussels, on the left of the road to Ant- 
werp, stands the palace of Lacken, upon a gentle eminence, oc- 
cupied by the king of the Belgians, who is fond of gardening, and a 
promoter of it. ‘To accomplish his objects, and establish some of 
the British principles of gardening at Lacken, he has had his gar- 
dener, Mr. M‘Intosh, from Claremont, who is carrying on great 
improvements in the erection of hot-houses, green-houses, pits, 
&c., upon the most modern and best English construction; and 
it is reported to be the intention of His Majesty to erect conser- 
vatories, &c., and to have a good and general collection of 
rare and ornamental plants, to which he is very partial. The 
orangery here is a large, noble-looking, well-proportioned build- 


10 Journey through Belgium 


ing; it is 360 ft. long, 50 ft. wide, and 40 ft. high, with a slated 
roof, and contains a very large stock of as handsome and healthy 
orange trees as are to be found any where. ‘The pleasure-grounds 
have been lately increased, and are very extensive, but require 
the introduction of new ornamental plants, and particularly of 
evergreens, of which they, like most of the pleasure-grounds 
in these countries, are almost wholly deficient. 

At Enghien, a few miles beyond Brussels, there is a nursery — 
garden, belonging to M. Parmentier, who has a considerable 
collection of exotic plants, and amongst them some rare and 
good species. ‘The Duke d’Aremberg has here a small country 
residence and garden; the range of hot-houses, &c., in it is 
handsome and extensive; but the duke’s collection of plants, 
though spoken of here as good, contains little that is rare. 

The road from Brussels, through Louvain, is slightly undu- 
lated and well wooded. ‘The land is tolerable, but not rich. At 
Louvain there is a botanic garden, containing a good collection 
of tropical plants and others, which are in a state of high cul- 
tivation: the place is altogether in good keeping, and does high 
credit to M. Donkelaar, the head gardener, who, for civility and 
attention, is an ornament to the establishment. ‘The Duke 
d’Aremberg has near this a large old mansion, in ruins, and an 
extensive and tolerably well kept kitchen-garden, in which are 
cultivated some very excellent apples and pears. ‘There is a 
considerable extent of land, here called pleasure-ground, in the 
most neglected state that it is possible to conceive. 

M. van Mons, M.D. Professor of Chemistry, &c., has given 
very great attention to the cultivation of pears. On visiting his 
garden and fruit rooms, I had ample proof of his labour and 
attention. Both must have been incessant, and the result must 
be of great public advantage. He has sown seed, and proved 
the quality of the produce of, as I was told, eleven ‘thousand 
seedling pear trees, from these, they say, he has obtained about 
three hundred good sorts. I saw the fruit of many of excellent 
quality, adapted to the various seasons and objects for which this 
fruit is applicable. I hope the day is not distant when all the 
really good sorts will not only be cultivated in this country, but 
also accurately described. 

The road to Liége is through a country of little interest to the 
traveller. The land is tolerable, but the cottages are miserable 
poor clay huts, and the general surface of the country is bleak 
and open, for want of bridges and trees. At Liége, a large 
town on the banks of the river Meuse, which is there about 
equal in width to the Thames at Chelsea, there is a nursery 
garden, kept by Mr. Jacob Makoy, where an excellent col- 
lection of exotic plants is cultivated. Coals are here abundant, 
and also from this place to Namur. ‘The road is on the bank of 


and Part of France in 1833. 11 


the river Meuse, which is very romantic and beautiful; re- 
sembling much the road from Bakewell to Buxton, in Derby- 
shire. ‘The country abounds in mines of lead, iron, and coal, 
and quarries of marble. ‘The latter may at no distant day prove 
an article of great commercial importance; it is obtained in 
blocks of various lengths, some nearly 20 ft. long: it is uniform in 
its quality, is easily worked by the chisel or saw, and is readily 
converted into slabs of large dimensions, of less than an inch in 
thickness. [See Mag. Nat. Hist., vi.76.] Orchard fruits are 
cultivated here to a considerable extent; and, on the southern 
exposure of the hills, vineyards are numerous and extensive. 

Along the road to Charleroi, Mons, Comines, and Valenciennes, 
coals are abundant and good, and produce little smoke. The coun- 
try is open, and the soil moderately good. Succory is cultivated 
to a very great extent; it is taken up at this time (the latter end 
of October), and laid im large heaps about the farm yard, pre- 
paratory to storing it up for the winter, during which season it 
is forced in cellars and the blanched leaves sent to market as 
salading. [See the practice described in detail, II. 460.] 

The road through Péron to Paris traverses an open agricul- 
tural country, affording little interest to the traveller. Approach- 
ing to Paris, the land is partially occupied in the cultivation of 
culinary vegetables in alternate ridges or beds, of corn, &c., in 
which neither art, regularity, nor neatness of method is attended 
to. Near to Paris the greater part of the land is occupied in the 
cultivation of vegetables for the Paris market, where they appear 
to much greater advantage than in the gardens. At a village 
called Montreuil, about four miles east of Paris, the chief part of 
the peaches for the supply of this great metropolis are grown; 
and, considering the rough state the trees are kept in, the fruit is 
surprisingly fine, and the crops abundant. The trees are trained 
on stone walls, generally plastered over, of 8 or 10 feet high, 
enclosing portions of ground, varying from the eighth of an acre 
to an acre, and they are planted on all aspects with similar suc- 
cess. ‘The mode of pruning these trees seems to be without rule 
or regularity, notwithstanding which, they retain perfect health 
to an old age, and grow to a good size. ‘The soil is of a brown 
free-working loam, upon a loose freestone bottom, never very 
wet or very dry. [See Encyc. of Gard., new edit. § 474. 

The nursery gardens in and about Paris are somewhat nu- 
merous. ‘The few engaged particularly in the cultivation of 
exotic plants are not in a prosperous state, nor do they possess 
a great variety of species, though they have many good plants. 

The nursery gardeners of Vitry, a village about four or five 
miles from Paris, are very numerous, and are chiefly engaged in 
the cultivation of hardy fruit trees, forest trees, and shrubs, 
which they grow well, considering the great irregularity and the 


12 Investigation of the Theory 


confused way in which they crop their lands. Their nurseries 
are chiefly in open fields, and their trees are grown on alternate 
ridges with crops of wheat, rye, &c. On the same ridge may 
frequently be seen, intermixed, apples, pears, plums, cherries, 
and peaches, but very rarely a number stick, to indicate the 
particular kind of any of the sorts; so that little dependence 
can be placed on the accuracy of the growers as to names or 
sorts. 

The nursery gardeners, or florists, who supply the markets of 
Paris with flowers, reside chiefly in or very near that city; the 
produce of their labours, at all the seasons in which I have visited 
Paris, from July to November, has always surprised me much. 
The beauty and superiority of the articles they bring forth 
amount to perfection itself, and are truly surprising. ‘To enu- 
merate all the articles which I saw exposed in the Paris flower- 
markets would form a very long list, and, indeed, would be 
quite beyond my recollection. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
JosEPH KNIGHT. 
Exotic Nursery, King’s Road, Chelsea, Jan. 8. 1834. 


Our readers, we are sure, will agree with us in thanking Mr. 
Knight for this interesting communication, and entreating him 
(as he makes an annual Continental tour) always to give us a 
similar account of it. We wish all nurserymen and gardeners 
who travel on the Continent could be persuaded to do this. 
There is a great want of spirit among the young nurserymen 
about London. ‘They think they have done a great deal if they 
have ventured as far as Paris; but we are sure, that, if they were 
to travel through Germany, and even into Italy, they would greatly 
enlarge their minds, acquire much more professional inform- 
ation than they have any idea of; and, what they will, perhaps, 
like best of all, extend their commercial connections. —Cond. 


ArT. III. Investigation of the Theory of the Rotation of Crops. By 
the Author of the ‘“ Domestic Gardener’s Manual,” C.M.H.S. 
Sir, 

My attention was arrested by the remarks of the reviewer of 
what is termed ‘ De Candolle’s Theory of the Rotation of Crops,” 
in a late number of the Quarterly Journal of Agriculture (xxi. 
320—327.). I shall notice a few of these remarks as I proceed ; 
but, before I do so, I feel imperatively called upon to place 
before you and your numerous readers a statement of a few 
plain facts. ‘They who know me, or who have perused any of 


of the Rotation of Crops. 13 


my papers with candour and disinterested feelings, will, I con- 
ceive, acquit me of undue assumption, or of endeavouring to set 
up a claim for originality, without just and sufficient reason. 
That which I borrow I ever wish to avow, as a subject from 
which I have derived benefit and improvement; but, if I feel 
confident of having advanced an opinion, or advocated a practice, 
that, as far as my means of information extend, I conscien- 
tiously believe to be originally my own, I should be unjust to 
myself to relinquish that confidence, until, by proof positive, I 
become convinced that I have laboured under a mistake. 

To quit further preamble, I observe that, at p. 324., we read, 
‘* Brugmans stated that a portion of the juices which are ab- 
sorbed by the roots of plants are, after the salutiferous portions 
have been extracted by the vessels of the plant, again thrown 
out by exudation from the roots, and deposited in the soil. This 
idea has been more fully pursued by De Candolle, who sees in 
it the true theory of the rotation of crops. He thinks it pro- 
bable that it is the existence of this exuded matter, which may 
be regarded in some measure as the excrement of the preceding 
crop of vegetables, that proves injurious to a succeeding vege- 
tation.... The particles which have been deleterious to one 
tribe of plants cannot but prove injurious to plants of the same 
kind, and probably to those of some other species, while they 
furnish nutriment to another order of vegetables. Hence it is 
why one kind of corn crop is injured by immediately succeeding 
another of the same kind; hence why different kinds of crops 
may with advantage succeed one another; hence, in short, the 
propriety of a rotation of crops.” 

I do not by any means object to the theory alluded to in this 
quotation ; far from it, I believe it to be substantially correct: 
but why is it termed ‘ De Candolle’s theory?” That learned 
professor has advocated the facts stated: so, it appears, did Pro- 
fessor Brugmans. I was not, indeed, aware that that learned 
German had written at all on the subject; nor do I now know 
in what work his opinions are to be found; but it appears that 
he preceded M. de Candolle at the least. Dr. Lindley, also, it 
can be proved, published a hypothesis by no means at variance 
with the theory under consideration. In his Oudlenes of the Lirst 
Principles of Horticulture (No. 52—56.) we read, ‘ Spongioles 
secrete excrementitious matter, which is unsuitable to the same 
species afterwards as food ; for poisonous substances are as fatal 
to the species that secrete them as to any other species.... But 
to other species the excrementitious matter is either not unsuit- 
able or not deleterious. . . . Hence, soil may be rendered impure 
(or, as we inaccurately say, worn out) for one species, which will 
not be impure for others.... This is the true theory of the 
rotation of crops.” 


14 Investigation of the Theory 


Which of the two professors can lay just claim to priority ? 
for the theory is one and the same. But now we come to another 
consideration. What did Z write in the Domestic Gardener’s 
Manual in 1829, which work was published complete in 1830? 
The reader who can turn to that work, at p. 397., under the 
-head ** General Remarks upon the Raspberry,” will find the 
following observations : — “ Whenever raspberry plants are re- 
moved to another situation, the old ground ought to be well 
manured, deeply digged and turned, and then it should be placed 
under some vegetable crop. By this mode of treatment it will 
be brought into a condition to support raspberries again in two 
or three years. ‘This is a curious and interesting fact, one which 
proves that it is not solely by exhausting the soil that certain 
plants deteriorate, if planted on the same ground year after year ; 
for, were this the case, manuring would renovate the ground ; 
but it fails to do so: and thus, if peas or wheat, for example, be 
grown repeatedly on a piece of land, the farmer may manure to 
whatever extent he chooses, his crops will dwindle, and become 
poorer and poorer. .. . To account for this specific poisoning of 
the soil, we must suppose that particular plants convey into the 
soil, through the channels of their reducent vessels, certain spe- 
cific fluids, which, in process of time, saturate it, and thus render 
it incapable of furnishing those piants any longer with wholesome 
aliment: in fact, the soil becomes replete with fecal or excre- 
mentitious matter; and, on such, the individual plant which has 
yielded it cannot feed. But it is not exhausted ; so far from that, 
it is, to all intents and purposes, manred for a crop of a different 
nature: and thus, by the theory of interchange between the 
fluids of the plant and those of the soil, we are enabled, philo- 
sophically, to account for the benefit which is derived from a 
change of crops.” 

The foregoing remarks, whether they be correct or incorrect, 
philosophical or unphilosophical, are tolerably pointed and 
definite: they cannot be misunderstood; and it will scarcely be 
contended, that I did not pen them in the year, and in the work, 
above mentioned. 

But Brugmans, it may be said, wrote to the same effect. I 
deny it not: I only observe, that I know not when he did so. 
I am ignorant of all concerning his writing, except from the few 
lines which I have extracted from the Quarterly Journal of Agri- 
culture. His works are, and have been, wholly unknown to me; 
and you, Sir, do not appear to have referred to any of them in 
your Encyclopedia of Plants or Hortus Britannicus. He therein 
only is named as having given a new title to a semihardy and 
most beautiful shrub, formerly called Datiéra arborea, now Brug- 
mansza suaveolens. It is of little consequence what and when 
he wrote, in respect to the subject under consideration; it is 


of the Rotation of Crops. 15 


enough to be able to adduce proof of the priority of the hypo- 
thesis of the Domestic Gardener’s Manual to that now ascribed 
to M. de Candolle. That learned professor may have presented. 
enlarged views of the theory, he may have added fact to fact in 
corroboration thereof; but still his claim to originality falls to 
the ground. 

It is not contended that the necessity of a change of crops is 
a new theory; far frem it: the practice is proved by fact to be 
more or less expedient. Let me not be mistaken; what I argue 
for is simply this: that the theory of a fecal exudation of some 
matter by the roots, saturating the soil, and rendering it poisonous 
or unwholesome to the individual, but nutritive and salubrious 
to some other plant, is new; and appears never to have been 
advanced, or even hinted at, until I wrote the passage extracted, 
as above, from my work. 

I do not for a moment desire to detract from the ability or 
authority of so able a botanist as De Candolle; but, great and 
deservedly high as his name and reputation may be, I, a com- 
paratively nameless writer, cannot abandon the consciousness 
that I penned, from my own unassisted observations and reflection, | 
in 1829, those remarks that now form the sum and substance of 
what is considered a new theory. I have supposed it possible 
that Brugmans may have anticipated me and every one else; but, 
even in this case, as was before hinted, what becomes of the 
present claim? But I have good reason to believe that the fact 
was not so; for, in a letter very recently received from the pre- 
sident of the Horticultural Society, that gentleman observes : — 
** The Continental naturalists have lately imagined that trees emit 
some matter into the soil, of the nature of excrement, which sub- 
sequently becomes noxious.” If, then, the doctrine be deemed 
recent, the priority ought to rest with one who wrote nearly four 
years anterior to the publication of the theory which is thus 
blazoned forth as new. I quit this part of my subject, in order 
to allude to matters of pleasing interest in the other parts of the 
article by the reviewer. 

It appears that M. Macaire has made many experiments to 
confirm the theory of the exudation of matter from the roots. 
He is stated to have ascertained the fact from a comparison of 
results, in attempting to raise plants “in pure siliceous sand, 
pounded glass, washed sponge, white linen, and particularly in 
rain water. After cleansing the roots thoroughly, he placed 
them in pure water. After they had put forth leaves, expanded 
their flowers, and flourished for a time, he ascertained, by the 
evaporation of the water, and the use of chemical reagents, that 
the water contained matter which had exuded from the roots.” 
I cannot allow myself space to quote the experiments at large. 
One, however, with the bean (Vicia Faba) must be noticed. 


16 Investigation of the Theory 


“The bean grows pretty well in pure water. It was found, on 
trial, that the water continued clear, but assumed a yellow tint. 
Chemical tests and evaporation seemed to detect a matter similar 
to gum, and a little chalk. Another bean was placed in this 
liquor, and would not thrive: and then, in order to determine 
whether this was occasioned by the want of carbonic acid, or by 
the presence of some exuded matter, plants of wheat were placed 
in the water. They lived well, the yellow colour of the fluid 
became less intense, the residuum less considerable, and it was. 
evident that the new plants absorbed a portion of the matter 
discharged by the first. Hence, the practice of cropping wheat 
after beans is justified by this experiment.” 

The potato scarcely coloured water wherein it was placed, 
left little residuum, and gave but little taste. “‘ This experiment,” 
M. Macaire observes, “‘ was made upon a piant at an early stage 
of developement. ‘The experiment would lead to the inference, 
that the potato is not a very good preparation for corn crops, 
which is known to be the case in practice, unless it is assisted by 
an extraordinary quantity of manure. All these facts tend to 
prove the theory of the rotation suggested by M. de Candolle.” 

From the foregoing passages, the reader may draw some infer- 
ence concerning the theory, and the nature of the experiments 
recorded. I am by no means disposed to retract what I had 
written upon the philosophy of the rotation of crops; on the 
contrary, I rejoice to feel myself supported by physiologists of 
so much eminence. To know, beyond a doubt, that a Lindley 
and a De Candolle have adduced a theory exactly in accordance 
with that which some years past impressed my own mind, is at 
least highly gratifying: to ascertain that the direct experiments 
of another man of science have tended, as far as they have been 
carried, to confirm it, is still more so. But I must not neglect 
to say, that the practice of the rotation of crops may be, and is, 
carried too far. There can, I think, be no doubt that, whenever 
a crop fails upon repetition, that failure ought to be attributed to 
an unhealthy (specifical) saturation of the soil: but rotation, as a 
sine gud.non, an indispensable and never to be omitted practice, 
ought not:to be insisted upon. They who have boldly ventured 
to persist for a time in recroppings have not found a certain 
deterioration: As to the potato, it is no uncommon thing to 
hear of the'same ground being planted and replanted, year after 
year, -for-a great period of time. M. Macaire’s experiment with 
the' potato. bears upon the assertion, for it tends to show that it 
does not produce much radical matter. That plants, in many 
instances, give forth a considerable portion, may be inferred from 
the’peculiar odour which they impart to the soil; and also from 
thecolour, the change of tint, which the ground acquires from 
croppings. Let new-turned maiden earth be put into a garden 


of the Rotation of Crops. 17 


pot, and with it a single strawberry plant, without any manuring 
substance. ‘The soil, in the first instance, shall be of an ochreous 
yellow hazel colour. In a single year, how many shades, ap- 
proaching to black, will it acquire from the deposition of carbonous 
matter, although it be watered with pure rain water only? Let 
experimenters determine this and other facts of the like nature, 
for their own satisfaction: I throw out the hint as a stimulus. 
Tt must be conceded, that great difficulty surrounds experiments 
of a nature similar to those instituted by M. Macaire; for 
plants in water are not in a purely natural situation: they live, 
and perhaps grow; but they are not, as the plants in the field, 
rooted and established in soil, and exposed to the stimulus of the 
great natural agents. Hence, there is great danger of being 
deluded by appearances. A cutting, placed in a coloured in- 
fusion imbibes the colouring matter, and has induced microscopic 
observers to suppose that they have thereby detected the genuine 
channels of the sap: but, as I have shown (VIII. 142.], rooted 
plants do not evince the same appearances of colour, although 
the soil in which they have grown has been moistened for a long 
time with deeply coloured infusion. Plants, in a word, elaborate 
their own food; they are their own chemists, and ought to be 
placed in their peculiar spheres of action; otherwise, though life 
may be protracted, their functions are not naturally performed, 
nor are their secretions regularly and healthily effected. 

The writer in the Quarterly Journal of Agriculture invites che- 
mists to investigate and experimentise, in order to improve upon 
and establish, or to disprove, the theory of Professor de Can- 
dolle. I, for one, would volunteer my services, the more espe- 
pecially to consolidate my own hypothesis; but I must, in justice, 
caution every one, that, in order to determine the causes of 
natural phenomena, the subjects of trial must be placed in truly 
natural situations. Cuttings afford fallacious data. J am inclined 
to fear that even rooted plants, growing in pure water only, would 
not yield products exactly corresponding with those afforded to 
the soil. In order to operate efficiently, I conceive it would be 
prudent to wash a sufficient bulk of maiden earth in rain water, 
to drain it thoroughly, then to plant the subject in a pot of the 
washed earth, and to water it during its growth solely with fil- 
trated rain water. Plants so treated, and duly exposed to sun 
and air, might be expected to yield their specific radical exudation 
to the soil. After a given time, the mould should either be 
repeatedly watered to excess, and the drainage collected for 
experiment, or, the plant being removed, the whole bulk of soil 
should be immersed in rain water, and stirred over and over 
again, After three or four hours, the water might be filtrated 
through strong bibulous white paper, and tested according to art, 
These crude hints are thrown out, leaving the minutia to the 

Vou. X.— No, 48. c 


18 Scientific Management of Hot-houses 


science and skill of the operator. I could add much to this 
paper; but, having trespassed very far on your pages, I must not 
farther enlarge. 


Dec. 4.1833. G. IT. 


Art. 1V. On the Scientific Management of Hot-houses, so far as t 
regards Temperature. By Scient1® Er JusTit1z AMATOR. 


Sir, 

WueEwn we take into consideration the exertions made by 
philosophic individuals for the purpose of enlightening the 
mystified processes of vegetable developement, and impressing 
upon gardeners the importance of conducting their operations 
upon scientific principles; it is scarcely more amazing to mark 
the indifference with which (comparatively speaking) we have 
treated their doctrines, than it is to behold the tenacity with 
which we have clung to systems of management, which can only 
be defended by pointing out the success which has followed 
them, and citing the authority of some distinguished writer, 
whose name we hold in veneration ; while a little calm investigation 
would be sufficient to convince us, that even a greater degree of 
success might be realised by other means, attended with less 
expense, and more in unison with the general operations of 
nature. In illustration of this position, few subjects could be 
more appropriately introduced, than the general management of 
hot-houses, so far as temperature is concerned. In using the 
word general, I beg leave to say that I am quite aware thata 
great many gardeners conduct their hot-house operations ina 
scientific natural manner; but, so far as my observation informs 
me, they as yet prove exceptions from the great body, who con= 
tinue to keep, within a few degrees, as high a temperature in 
their houses at night, as when they are exposed to the influence 
of a cloudless sun. That a system so opposed to nature should 
so extensively prevail may be accounted for by the fact, that we 
have been more anxious to become acquainted with, and to act 
upon, the opinions of others, than to investigate for ourselves, 
taken in connection with the circumstance, that, with the ex« 
ception of the celebrated Mr. Knight, and a few modern writers, 
the system has received the support of almost every author 
whose writings are recommended to the attention of the tyro in 
gardening, as containing nothing which has not received the 
sanction of practical experience. That the prosecution of such 
a system has been practically successful I will not dispute; but, 
at the same time, it appears clear as noonday that that success 
must wholly depend upon causing the means employed, in them- 
selves opposed to nature, so to counteract each other as to pro- 


with regard to Temperature. 19 


duce finally the result which would be the effect of an adherence 
to the simple dictates of nature. 

Almost every gardener is aware that, for all practical pur- 
poses, well-ripened, firm, short-jointed wood is greatly preferable 
to that which is luxuriant and long-jointed ; and, therefore, as 
an increase of temperature exerts the same expanding influence 
upon vegetables as upon other bodies, and as this expansion, in 
the case of vegetables, is greatly accelerated by their being kept 
in the shade, and in a humid atmosphere, it follows that the 
keeping up of a strong moist heat in hot-houses, at night, is the 
very best means for producing elongation of stem and long- 
jointed wood. But as it is very doubtful if; in these circum~- 
stances, much valuable substance is added to the plant, as it is 
only when exposed to the agency of light (so say our most 
celebrated philosophers) that the process of decomposing car- 
bonic acid is effected, and the sap receives its final elaboration, 
so as to become, as it were, the nourishing blood of the plant; 
it becomes necessary to counteract this tendency to the pro- 
duction merely of elongation of stem, by preventing the ther- 
mometer from rising more than a few degrees above the fire- 
heat standard, by admitting large quantities of air during the 
day. By this means the internal is reduced to almost an 
equality with the external atmosphere, and, by making an im- 
proper use of artificial heat, the cultivator is under the necessity 
of depriving himself of the advantages which he might otherwise 
have derived from the heat of the sun. ‘The tendency of keeping 
a high temperature at night is to over-stimulate the plants, 
causing them to expend prematurely their powers of excitability, 
and, if not counteracted by the means I have referred to, the 
prejudicial effects soon become apparent. As one instance, I 
may mention, that last season (1832), it being very desirable to 
have grapes in a pine stove ripe as soon as possible, no trouble 
was spared to keep up a high temperature both night and day ; 
and the consequence was, that, although the vines made pretty 
good wood, the fruit never was high-flavoured, nor yet well- 
coloured, and soon became shriveled, or rotted off. As the 
shriveling of grapes is very much complained of, it may be 
worth the attention of the gardener to enquire, if, in addition to 
leaving too much fruit for the strength of the vine, &c., it may 
not sometimes be owing to the keeping up of a high temperature 
both nightand day ; by which, notwithstanding the accommodating 
capabilities of plants, their powers of excitability become ex- 
pended before the fruit has received its due share of nourishment. 
But the circumstances to which I wish particularly to direct the 
attention of my “ brothers in youth and in trade” is, that, inde- 
pendently ofall ourexertions, the grapes, inthe pine stove referred 


to, were not fit to cut above eight days sooner than those in a 
c 2 


20 Management of Temperature in Hot-houses. 


late vinery, which had received little assistance from fire heat 
except at the blossoming season. During this season (1833), 
the pine stove referred to, as well as all the other houses, were 
managed upon a natural system. ‘The temperature at night in 
the pine stoves was frequently below 60°, and in the vineries as 
~ Jow as 50°, while during the day the temperature ranged from 
80° to 110°, the atmosphere being kept in a moderately humid 
state. The grapes in the pine stove formerly noticed were ripe 
from three weeks to a month sconer than last season; the fruit 
was of the finest quality, both as respects colour and flavour, and 
so free from shriveling, that a number of bunches that were left 
upon a white muscat vine with very large berries were cut, in 
the end of last month, without containing one shriveling berry. 
Several gardeners with whom I have conversed upon the 
subject, while allowing that the present general practice is un- 
natural, at the same time contend that, when fruit is wanted 
early, it is necessary to keep up a high temperature both night 
and day; but the instance I have referred to tends to show that 
such a practice, instead of accelerating maturation, actually 
retards it, or, at any rate, leaves very little chance of obtaining 
fruit of the best quality. As an additional fact, I might refer to 
our field crops, which ripen most rapidly when exposed alter- 
nately to the cold dewy nights and bright warm sunny days of 
autumn. By allowing the temperature to fall at night, and to 
rise by sunshine during the day, much less air will be necessary 
than is generally given, and almost universally recommended, and 
much labour will be saved. Indispensable as atmospheric air is 
to plants, it appears to me that its importance has been greatly 
overrated. However necessary its free admission is, to counter- 
act the prejudicial effects of keeping a high temperature at 
night, it is not in like manner necessary when the plants are 
cultivated in accordance with the dictates of nature; as the ex- 
panding influence of a high temperature, from sunshine, will, at 
the same time, be counteracted by the agency of light effecting 
the elaborating and decomposing processes. Its free admission, 
for the purpose of imparting colour and flavour to fruit, may be 
very proper when the fruit has attained its full size, and the 
temperature is not much reduced; but it is worth enquiring 
if, even here, light be not the principal agent. The very argu- 
ment made use of by many, that it is necessary to admit a free 
current of air, for the purpose of keeping the atmosphere pure 
in which the plants are grown, will, when duly weighed, recoil 
upon themselves ; as it is only at night that plants can deteriorate 
the atmosphere, while they perform a salutary process of 
purification during the day: to act consistently, it is during the 
night that gardeners ought to give the greatest quantity of air. 
I know that even this practice is recommended by some, but it 


Portable Hot-water Apparatus. 21 


cannot be much adhered to in this country with advantage, unless 
the weather be very warm; or the plants cultivated be such 
as do not require a temperature higher than that which our 
climate at the time affords. In general, it will be found most 
economical to shut up the house early in the afternoon, so as to 
have all the advantage of sun heat, and then open the top sashes 
a little the first thing in the morning, which will allow the close 
heated air to escape ; and, what is of some consequence, especially 
when the fruit approaches maturity, it will help to dry the 
leaves and fruit before the sun’s rays become very powerful. 

It will be perceived that these observations are merely general, 
and do not at all refer to what may be called critical periods in 
the forcing of fruits, &c. Due attention must also be paid to the 
native locality of plants, as in some situations plants experience 
little difference of temperature during day and night. That the - 
system I have pointed out will be attended with less labour and 
expense than the one generally acted upon requires no demon- 
stration. The young man who knows experimentally what it is 
to run about like a lamplighter, giving and taking away air, just 
as the sun emerges from or enters a cloud; or who has had _his 
health impaired by a midnight attendance upon furnaces ; in both 
cases, for the purpose of keeping the thermometer at the ordered 
degree; will duly appreciate the ease and comfort with which 
hot-houses may be managed, by adopting a system more in unison 
with nature. Diminution in the quantity of fuel will of itself 
produce a reduction of expenses. ‘To a great many of your 
readers, there will be nothing new in these remarks; but, should 
you judge them likely to be of any use, your publishing them 
may be the means of leading young gardeners rigidly to seru- 
tinise all doctrines and opinions for themselves, and may teach 
them not to be the implicit followers of any man; for, small and 
confined as my knowledge of the science of gardening is, it has 
already taught me that, by attending to its dictates, results and 
advantages will be obtained, which industry and perseverance, 
unaided by its influence, never could accomplish. 

Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 

Dec. 27. 1833. ScrENTIZ ET JusTiTL£ AMATOR. 


Art. V. Description of a portable Hot-water Apparatus. By Mr. 
JosHua Masor, Landscape-Gardener and Garden Architect. 


Sir, 
I wave sent for your inspection a model of a portable hot- 
water apparatus, which I have recently constructed, and wish to 


make known. While designing various fancy structures for a 
c 3 


ZY Portable Hot-water Apparatus. 


gentleman’s pleasure-crounds, I was led to suppose that some- 
thing like the apparatus now sent might be advantageously ap- 
propriated to such of them as require some little artificial heat. 
My chief aim was to avoid the appearance of smoke and chim- 
neys, which cannot usually be dispensed with, in the case of the 
~ introduction of coal or wood fires; and my next object was, to 
have the apparatus portable, so as to be able to remove it from 
place to place, as it might be wanted. It is probable the appa- 
ratus may be advantageously used, in small frames, to assist any 
insufficient heat in severe weather; and [I think it could not 
fail also to be useful, were it introduced into some of the small 
green-houses which are frequently to be met with in the metropolis 
and other large towns; and which, being generally destitute of 
any mode of supplying heat artificially, seldom, if ever, exhibit 
healthy plants. 

I have employed this portable hot-water apparatus In warming 
one of the entrances of the conservatory formerly belonging to 
Bretton Hall (VIII. 361.), but which is now connected with a 
gentleman’s drawing-room, for the reception of plants as they 
come into flower, which could not conveniently be warmed in any 
other way; and, while writing this, I have received an order for 
one to be sent into Lincolnshire, of the size here described, for a 
very small green-house, 9 ft. by 6 ft.. which, no doubt, will be 
quite sufficient for a place of that extent. 

The apparatus may be made of tin or copper; the latter, 
though, of course, it would cost more at first, would, owing to 
its durability, in the end, no doubt, be the cheapest. Charcoal 
is employed for heating the apparatus; oil lamps have been tried 
instead of it, but with not near so good an effect. As it is ne- 
cessary to employ pipes to conduct the effluyium (arising from 
the charcoal) out of the place required to be warmed, it will, in 
order to secure all the heat possible, be of importance to intro- 
duce a sufficient length to allow the whole heat to pass off, 
before the ends of the pipes are turned to the outside. In order 
to make the smoke conductors suitable for any situation, it is 
only necessary, in addition to the elbow-pipes, to be provided 
with several lengths of straight pipes, placing one elbow upon 
the permanent smoke conductor connected with the fire, and the 
other at the extremity, or midway, of the piping, as it may be 
required. ‘The largest-sized apparatus could not well be more 
than 8 ft. long; as, if larger, it would be inconvenient to move 
about. ‘The size of the one which appears the most useful is as 
follows:—The whole height of the centre portion of the apparatus, 
comprising the boiler, &c., is 15 in., and width 54in. by 72in.; 
the fire-pan is 52 in. by 43 in., and 34in. deep; surrounded on 
three sides by a boiler half an inch in diameter, which becomes 
more spacious upwards as the fireplace diminishes. The opening 


Different Kinds of Fountains for Gardens. 23 


necessary for the reception of the fire-pan, and for supplying it 
with fuel, is 6in. wide by 54 in. deep: at the top of this opening 
the fireplace commences tapering ; consequently the water in the 
boiler expands more immediately over the fire; the smoke pipe 
takes its regular width (14 in.) in the boiler, about an inch below 
where the lid unites; the horizontal water pipes (/ig. 1. a) are 


each 28in. long, by 2in. in diameter; the end pipes (5) are 
144 in. high, by 3 in. in diameter: a feeder (c) is added, in case 
it should be thought better to have the lid fixed tight on the 
boiler. In order to promote the circulation of the water, small 
holes are to be perforated in the top of the lids (d d), which are 
also intended to be fixed tight. ‘The apparatus may either be 
placed on the floor of the place to be warmed, or raised by 
bearers, or suspended by wire or cord, the two latter methods 
assist the fire to burn more freely. I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

JosHua Magor. 
Knowstrop, near Leeds, Dec. 12. 1883. 


Art. VI. On the different Kinds of Fountains adapted to Gardens. 
By Witi1am Mason, Jun. Esq. 


Sir, 

Toucuine the arrangement of fountains, promised in my last 
(LX. 538.), I have only to observe that, as method, ever so little 
pursued, does, in the same proportion, facilitate operation, so 
would I say, that, by giving fountains the names of class and cha- 
racter, we shall assist the projector in his communications with 


those who employ him. ‘Thus, then, I should divide fountains 
c 4 


24 Gardener's House, adapted for 


into two classes, the cascade and the jet: the cascade foun- 
tain invariably falling from an unseen source above and the jet 
fountain rising into the air from a source that is visible below. 
These classes I should again divide into the natural, the simple 
architectural, and the enriched. The taste of the projector 
- must adapt class and character to the situation, or, as those have 
it who forget their mother tongue, to the docale: as, for instance, 
bad taste might, perhaps, adopt the jet near a Swiss cottage, where 
a natural cascade would be harmonious with the scene; and, vice 
versa, would, perhaps, adopt the natural cascade in a geometric 
garden, and reject the jet, which would there be probably more 
in keeping with the general features, particularly if made of the 
enriched character. When such absurdities are put in juxta- 
position with each other, the critic is apt to scout the idea of 
treating such contradictions as chimerical; but the shade of 
Repton is not wanted to be summoned up, to testify that the 
remark is justified by every day’s experience. 

Now, as to character: the natural speaks for itself, whether 
cascade or jet: the one falling from rockwork above, and form- 
ing rills below; the other rising from a rockwork base, and falling 
into a pool around or against it. 

The simple architectural has nothing in it but what geometry, 
in the hands of a stone-mason, may execute; while, on the con- 
trary, the architectural enriched opens a wide field for genius 
to display all its glorious riches by the hands of the sculptor. 

Having now briefly given all that perhaps may be said on the 
methodical arrangement of fountains, I beg to send you in this 
sheet a design for a natural cascade fountain and hermitage; or, 
according to the foregoing project, a fountain of Class I. character 
1., and subscribe myself, till my next, Yours, &c. 

Necton, Norfolk, Nov. 1833. “Witiram Mason, Jun. 


We have not engraved the design sent, because there are 
many such already published; several will be found in the new 
edition of our Encyclopedia of Gardening, now publishing in parts. 
For example, in Part 1. fig. 20, and Part 111. fig. 134. We shall 
be glad of a continuation of Mr. Mason’s communications.— Cond. 


Art. VII. Design for a Gardener's House, adapted for the South 
Wall of a Kitchen-Garden. By J. Ropertson, Esq. Architect. 


In conformity with our promise, made in Vol. VIII. p. 551., 
we proceed with our designs for gardener’s houses, suitable for 
being joined to the walls of a kitchen-garden. We have already 
given a design for an east wall (VIII. 551.), one for a west wall 


(VIII. 659.), one for a north wall (IX. 477.), and we now give 
one for a south wall. (fig. 2.) 


the South Wall of a Kitchen- Garden. 25 


a 
ell TG) ! 
ai | ee 


Ss 
LEN... 


“ 3 
ih 
LEZ 


® \ 
N 
= 18 K14 dee 
\ 


Gz 


i 
x 


‘ q 
SSS ‘ S 
Nita ae 
KY i iho 


42X40 yas 
1 


on . 


The Ground Floor contains: a, entrance lobby; 6, passage and staircase; c, kitchen; d, parlour ; 
e, apprentice’ s bed-room; f, servant’s bed- room ; g, office and library ; ti, ‘water- closets ; Tes fuel 5 


Z, a 
The Guaraher Floor contains: mm, seed room over the piltchenig n, best bed-room 3 0, closet to best 
ed- room; , lumber closet ; g, press for linen; 7, s, ¢, bed-rooms. 


26 On forming Plantations on a regular Plan, 


Art. VIII. On adopting a regular Plan in forming Plantations, with 
a view to facilitating their after Management. By Cuartrs Law- 
RENCE, Hsq. 


Sir, 

As you number amongst your readers many scientific men 
and persons of taste, I must premise that, on the present 
occasion, I have nothing to say to the one or the other; but 
that my business is with the country gentleman, who is thinking 
nothing about either science or taste, but who has the cacozthes 
plantandi upon him, and is about to plant his twenty acres of 
land this winter, merely as a crop; and who, should he ever 
hereafter dream of thinning his plantation, would be much too 
idle to mark every tree which ought to be removed until the 
crop was half spoiled; when he would at length merely order 
men, probably without much more thought or judgment than 
the tools they wield, to “ thin the plantation.” 

I am sure I am far within bounds, when I assert that. at least 
half the trees which are planted, whether for ornament or profit, 
are either disfigured, or rendered comparatively valueless, by 
being originally planted too near together, or by being allowed 
to remain too long without thinning. As there are but few that 
plant who, from want of observation and experience, are capable 
of directing this operation to the best advantage, and many of 
those who are competent are indisposed to undertake a task 
which requires so much time, attention, and perseverance; and 
having personally felt it a very irksome task to mark a large plant- 
ation of small trees, it occurred to me, some years ago, that, after 
selecting those species of trees which were best adapted to the 
soil under culture, instead of planting them indiscriminately, it 
would very much simplify both the first setting and the thin- 
ning, if they were planted upon a regular plan. I have tried 
this repeatedly, and can strongly recommend the adoption of the 
system by those who are planting merely for profit, and without 
any view to scenic effect. 

The first point to be considered is the selection of such trees 
as are observed to flourish most in the particular locality, and 
as are known to thrive in the soil you are about to operate 
upon. ‘The next matter to be determined is the ultimate object 
in view; viz., whether you wish to create a permanent wood, or 
to plant merely as a means of converting land, in its actual 
state neither profitable under tillage nor as pasture, into good 
pasture eventually; for this has been accomplished over and 
over again, especially by the agency of the larch. In order to 
explain my views intelligibly, I will suppose that the land to be 
planted has been previously cropped with the view of getting 
it perfectly clean (a very essential preliminary), and that it is 


with a view to their after Management. 27 


intended for permanent wood; that the soil is suitable for oak, 
larch, and ash; and that the situation is sheltered, or at any rate 
not much exposed to winds. 

It is necessary, in the first place, to set out roads at suitable 
distances, with reference to the shape of the ground, in order to 
get out the trees as they are cut, without injuring those which 
are to remain. ‘These should be 20 ft. wide, and so-laid out 
that every part of the wood be equally accessible. (See fie. 3. 
the margin of which is intended to represent the outer fence.) 


Z Z 


SS 


Z Z, 
A 

Z 

Z} 

g Z 
Z 

A 

g 

Z 

Z Z 
A 

Z Z 
Z 
! g 
y g 
p ) f 
g g 
A 
k A Z 
iA A 
E GZ 
nz g 


NS 


The land, if retentive of moisture, should be formed into beds 
22 ft. wide, by throwing out alleys 2 ft. wide between them, 
which will give four rows to each bed; the outer rows, on either 
side, being 2 ft. from the alleys. ‘The holes should be dug over 
the entire piece immediately after harvest, about 2 ft. in diameter, 
and spade deep; well loosen the bottom of each, in order that 
the soil may be thoroughly exposed to the sun and air for two or 
three months, till the beginning of November. ‘To perform 
this operation with regularity, get a line, and tie a shred of 
scarlet cloth, or a bit of yarn, on it, at intervals of 6 ft. When 
the line is strained, dig round each shred, making that the centre 
of every hole. When the holes are dug the length of the line, 
measure off 6 ft. from the centre of the first and of the last 
hole in the first row, at right angles with them; then insert the 
stick exactly opposite the centre of the interval between the 
two first holes, and strain the line, dig round the shreds as 
before, which will bring every hole in the second row opposite 
the intervals in the first row, as shown in fig. 4. This 1s 


28 On forming Plantations on a regular Plan, 


material, inasmuch as it breaks the force of the winds. When 
the beds are dug over, then the roads are to be holed upon the 
same plan, leaving the holes in this case 5 ft. apart, which will 
take four rows, allowing 2 ft. space from the edge on each side. 
I recommend trees that have been two years transplanted, and 
not exceeding 3 ft. high. These will be found to answer in- 
finitely better than larger trees. It is a very common practice, 
in planting, to hold the tree in the bottom of the hole, throwing 
the soil over it, and then drawing it up, and shaking it, as it is said, 
to get the mould between the roots. This should be avoided ; 
for the obvious effect, or rather defect, of this is, to close the 
roots into a ball, whereas they should be spread out widely. 
Plant the tree as shallow as possible, consistently with its being 
firm in the ground. 

If the land be of a loose texture, and properly prepared, one 
hoeing, during fine sunny weather, in the month of May, for the 
first three years, will be sufficient. If it be of a close tenacious 
quality, a crop of potatoes (two rows between each line of trees) 
in the second year will be very beneficial. In the second winter 
after planting, cut off all the oak and ash, within 3in. of the 
ground. In the following summer select the best shoot from 
each stool, and rub off all the rest: this will produce much 
better ash poles, and much straighter and more free-growing 
oak trees, than would otherwise grow. 

I have been led much more into detail than I contemplated ; 
and part of what I have said may appear to many very un- 
important; but I have felt decided practical advantages, and 
much subsequent convenience, result from a little attention to 
these minutiz, and I therefore insist on them. I now come to 
the main point which induced me to take the pen in hand; viz., 
to show that the thinning, so essential to a crop, need not be 
deferred for want of opportunity to the proprietor to mark, or 
from an indisposition to leave the operation to mere labourers 
for fear of damage, if the land be planted on a regular system. 

Fig. 4. is a plan for one square of a plantation formed of 
oak, ash, and larch, as an example. 

At the distance of 6 ft. apart, no thinning will be required 
until the ash attains a sufficient size for hurdles, hoops, &c., 
which will be from twelve to fifteen years’ growth, according to 
the quality of the land; or even eighteen, if very poor. At this 
period cut out the ash in all the roads, with a downright blow, 
rather under the ground, which will prevent its shooting again. 
Unless there be a great demand, this will produce as much 
wood as could be disposed of at one time to advantage. In the 
following year cut off every other ash, in the rows composed 
exclusively of ash, with a blow in an upward direction, from 
2 to 3in. above the ground, in order that the stools should 


with a view to their after Management. 29 


COGOQOOOO® 
CIORONONONONOHONONG 
OOOOOOOOGEe 
OOOOODOOOO® 
OOOOOOGOGOO 
GROHORGRONONONOIGHO 
GRONONONGRORGRONGEO 
CNGRORGRONORORONONO 
OOOOOOOGHO 
ORCRORONCHOLORGHOLOME 


shoot again. In the third year cut off the ash between the 
larch and oak in the same manner. In the fourth year cut out 
the remainder of the ash with a downright blow, under the 
ground, to prevent their shooting again. ‘The ash left for stools 
will produce, in the summer after cutting, several shoots: these 
should be thinned out, leaving not more than three or four of 
those best placed for a crop. When these have attained suf- 
ficient growth to be crowded by the larch, the latter will be 
from 20 to 25 years’ growth, and should be cut out as soon as 
the sap is sufficiently in action to admit of their being barked ; 
for, though their bark does not bear a price in proportion to that 
of oak, with reference to the tan it yields, it will pay for stripping. 
At this age, larch, in almost any soil but clay, is extremely 
useful for roofs of barns, cottages, sheds, and a variety of 
agricultural uses; its value and usefulness for these purposes is 
as yet very little known in many districts. It has not sufficient 
credit for durability. I have used larch of this age for protecting 
_ young whitethorn fences. By cutting off the but end, 6 ft. 
long, and sawing it through the middle, two posts are obtained ; 
the remainder, sawed through, will give two rails of considerable 
length and strength. With a fence thus made, I have reared a 
quickset hedge till it was a perfect fence against any cattle; and, 


80 On forming Plantations on a regular Plan. 


on taking up the posts and rails, I found them sufficiently sound 
as a fence to raise a second quickset hedge. 

Upon this plan it is obvious that any labourer could effect the 
necessary thinning without any superintendence; he could not 
make a mistake. Ifa variety of timber be desired, sweet chest- 
nut may be substituted for every other oak; both thrive well, 
generally, on the same soil; or any other timber trees may be 
planted more suitable for the particular soil, keeping them in 
the same places assigned in the plan to oak. ‘The underwood 
may also be varied, by the introduction of oak, wych elm 
(U/lmus montana), Salix caprea, hazel, &c., all of which form 
excellent coppice wood ; but they must be introduced in regular 
order, with reference to future thinning. 

If the ultimate object be a return to pasture, all the ash must 
be cut off under the ground; the timber trees will then stand, 
after the removal of the larch, 36 ft. apart every way. Many 
will require removal; and this may be accomplished according 
to the taste of the proprietor, selecting generally the largest, as 
the most useful for gate-posts, fencing, &c. 

In very bleak exposed situations, I would recommend planting 
a Scotch pine, or some other nurse, between the trees, so that 
the whole plantation should stand, at first, only 3 ft.apart; and 
that all these should be cut out at four or five years’ growth, 
when the other trees are well established. If the planter be a 
game preserver, he may, at intervals of 100 yards, plant a 
patch of laurel, holly, and yew, and in every tenth or twelfth row 
of ash substitute spruce, silver, or balm of Gilead firs for every 
other ash: this will shed a gloom over the plantation, and 
afford a secure roost for the pheasants on a moonlight night. 

I cannot conclude without cautionmg gentlemen against what 
is misnamed cheap planting ; merely loosening the earth with a 
pickaxe, sticking in the trees at so much per thousand, without 
any previous preparation or subsequent care. ‘This is wretched 
economy; a term, by the way, sadly misunderstood, notwith- 
standing the lucid exposition of it which I recollect to have seen, 
I think, in the writings of Burke, —‘ Economy is a distributive 
virtue. It consists not in saving, but in selection. Great ex- 
pense may be an essential part of true economy.” I am sure 
this is true as applied to planting. I feel half inclined to submit 
a few hints upon planting and managing ornamental shrubberies ; 
but I will forbear, for fear of occupying space to the exclusion 
of much more valuable matter from the pens of others. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Cirencester, Oct. 4. 1833. CHARLES LAWRENCE. 


WE shall be particularly obliged by our correspondent’s re- 
marks on the subject mentioned ; and, indeed, by any article, on 
any subject suited to our pages, from his pen.— Cond. 


Hvils of exposing Green-house Plants during Summer. 31 


Art. IX. Considerations on the evil Effects of exposing Green-house 
Plants to the open Air of Britain during the Summer Months. By 
Mr. Rosert MArnock. 


Sir, 

Tue practice of turning green-house plants out of doors in 
summer may be necessary under particular circumstances, and 
with regard to certain species of plants; but, in cases where 
green-houses are properly constructed, and solely devoted to the 
cultivation of plants, these will generally be found to be injured, 
rather than benefited, by this treatment; particularly when 
turned out early in the season. Were it possible to. manage 
ereen-house plants during the winter as it could be wished, and 
as they require, exposing them to the open air in summer would 
no doubt be highly beneficial to them; but, from the changeable- 
ness of our climate, and the frequent (though often unnecessary) 
application of fire heat, to guard against the sudden attacks of 
frost, a considerable degree of excitement is induced, and, before 
the season has arrived at which they can be safely exposed to 
the open air, they are all, or nearly all, in a state of vigorous 
erowth. Without regard to this circumstance, they are at once 
removed to their summer quarters, when, although the frosty 
nights may have gone by for the season, the temperature during 
the night is often so low that a complete check is given to their 
growth, from which they seldom recover till towards the approach 
of autumn; when, after having regained their energy, and become, 
as it were, inured to their new climate, they once more make an 
effort to grow. From the gross habit which they have, how- 
ever, now acquired, together with the lateness of the season, the 
shoots are seldom well matured, and the plants are, therefore, 
in the worst possible condition to resist the effects of frost, 
mildew, damp, and other causes by which green-house plants 
are liable to be injured. But, when plants are retained under 
glass during the summer, both the first and second growths are 
ripened sufficiently early in the autumn; and, unless very im- 
proper excitement be applied, they will remain in a state of 
comparative rest till the following spring, when their flowers 
will be both more perfect, and much more abundant than such as 
may have stood out the preceding summer. 

I do not wish to be understood as recommending green-house 
plants to be kept crowded together in the house the whole of the 
summer, in the way we generally find them to be in winter. 
Duplicates and all the coarser and hardier kinds may very 
properly be removed out of doors; and these would, in most 
cases, be sufficiently numerous to afford room enough for those 
that are left, to stand without touching each other. During the 
summer the whole of the movable sashes in the roof and front 


32 = Evils of exposing Green-house Plants during Summer. 


of the green-house ought, except during long-continued rain or 
thunder storms, to be kept open both day and night, to admit as 
much air as possible; and the plants should occasionally be 
syringed over-head with water, which may be done at any hour 
of the day, without regard to the shining of the sun. I mention 
this, from having been myself sometimes cautioned never to wet 
the leaves of plants when the sun was shining upon them, unless 
I wished to have them burned. When the roots of plants thus 
exposed to the sun can be preserved in a tolerably cool and 
moist state, their tops will not only bear the sun, but his full 
influence is indispensable to their health and vigour, and the full 
developement of their flowers. 

Orange trees, camellias, and, indeed, all plants with coriaceous 
or thick fleshy leaves, are, from a variety of causes, liable to have 
their foliage injured by the sun; but this injury would seldom 
accrue to them were they retained in the house both summer and 
winter, and kept as cool as possible during the latter season. 
Consistently with the above considerations and provisions, fire 
heat need never be applied till the thermometer in the house 
has indicated three or four degrees of frost. 

I offer these remarks in particular application to evergreen 
plants with heath-like foliage, but more especially to the several 
genera composing the two splendid natural orders Lriceee and 
Hpacrideze, which perhaps contain a greater number of really 
beautiful plants than are to be found in the whole of the other 
orders put together. Most of the plants belonging to these two 
orders are furnished with roots of an exceedingly delicate nature, 
but, from the fine hair-like substance of which they are composed, 
ne plants are better adapted for growing in pots, or are sus- 
ceptible of a higher degree of perfection by this mode of culture. 
The means, however, which enable the attentive cultivator to 
produce specimens of great elegance and beauty, also operate to 
cause disappointment where the least neglect occurs, either in 
the application of too much or too little water; and these are 
evils which cannot always be guarded against, even by those who 
are the most careful. In plants having their roots confined 
within the limits of a garden pot, and exposed to the sun on the 
shelf or stage of a green-house, and watered at certain periods 
of the day, without much regard either to the state of the weather 
or the degree of their several wants, it is no wonder that, when 
so treated, some of them should, occasionally, appear sickly, and 
others of them die; indeed, it is certainly less to be wondered 
at than that they should exist at all. 

The chief objection, therefore, to plants being kept in the 
house in summer is, that, being exposed to the sun, the earth in 
the pots becomes dry, and the extremes of heat and cold, wet 
and dry, to which the roots are thence subjected, cause the 


Conditions favourable to the Rhododendron. 33 


plants to assume a brown and unhealthy appearance; and, 
generally, the leaves on the lower branches to fall off. These 
evils may, however, be effectually prevented by using double pots, 
as recommended by Mr. Blair in IX. 576., with this modification, 
that his pots, being intended for growing marsh or aquatic plants, 
require to be cemented together at the bottom; but, for the 
purpose of which I speak, nothing more is necessary, than that 
the empty pot, which is intended to form a screen for the other 
which contains the plant, be sufficiently large to receive the 
latter within it, so that the tops of both are nearly on a level. I 
have practised this, less or more, for the last three years, both 
with stove and green-house plants, and, during the dry weather 
of last summer, at least one hundred of the latter had their pots 
protected in this way. 

Those who cultivate many of the tropical ferns will also find 
it of service in preserving the delicate roots of those plants from 
the effects of dry heat. I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

Bretion Hall, Nov. 6. 1833. R. Marnocg. 


Art. X. A Notice of certain Conditions in connection with which 
Rhododendrons have been found to grow and flower very satisfactorily. 
By Mr. Joun Gow. 

Sir, 

Wuen I undertook, in Sept., 1827, the superintendence of 
these gardens, I found that my predecessor had left me a 
valuable legacy of several thousand seedling plants of Rhodo- 
déndron ponticum, in a three-light frame. In the last week of 
July, 1828, I had the whole of the plants lifted very carefully 
from the seed-bed, with a little ball of earth attached to each. 
Three thousand of the largest and the best were sized, and 
planted in nurse beds, in a north border behind the forcing- 
houses, in rows across the border; the rows 1 ft. asunder, and 
the plants 9 in. apart in the rows. I had, preparatorily, had the 
original soil removed to the depth of 14 in., and the excavation 
filled up with peat earth: after the planting, I gave a good 
watering with a pot and rose. As I had still upwards of 1,500 
left, and the expense of preparing beds of peat earth was very 
considerable, I resolved upon giving them a trial in the common 
garden soil, which is of a light sandy nature. A part of a north 
border, within the kitchen-garden, was selected for the purpose. 
I had it well dug, and the surface made smooth with a rake ; 
the best of the plants were then again selected, and planted in 
rows across the border, at the same distances as before: after 
the planting, a good supply of water was given. Upwards of 

Vou, X.— No. 48. D 


34 Conditions favourable to the Growth 


700 of the worst plants still remained; and, as I had not a 
spare piece of ground for them in a sheltered situation, I chose 
a spot on the outside of the garden, among a young plantation 
of filbert trees, with the soil of the same quality as that of the 
garden, but in a very exposed situation; the ground was well 
dug, and the surface made smocth with a rake: in this they 
were planted in rows, at the former distances. 

I have now to state the progress of each plantation; and, in 
doing so, I shall first remind you, that only the two first men- 
tioned stand upon an equal footing in point of climate. The 
first had an advantage in the vigour of the plants; and they 
certainly did make considerable progress in the first and suc- 
ceeding years, insomuch that three fourths of them were planted 
out in groups, in various parts of the pleasure-grounds and 
woods, in the winter of 1830 and 1831, without any other pre- 
paration than the ground being well trenched 2 ft. deep, and 
the surface well broken in the bottom of each trench. They 
continue to grow with luxuriance, and flower profusely. The 
second plantation, as might be expected, did not grow very 
strongly the first year after being planted; but, the second year, 
they began to grow very vigorously, as they still continue to do. 
The greater portion of them have flowered during the last two 
seasons; and they are equally as well rooted, and can _ be lifted 
with as gocd balls attached, as those planted in the peat earth: 
a circumstance which very few would credit did they not see it; 
but a circumstance which has been witnessed by many perfectly 
well qualified to judge, and, among others, by Mr. W. M‘Nab 
of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Edinburgh. ‘This eminent hor- 
ticulturist, when he saw them, said, in his usual straightforward 
way, “ They look healthy and well, but I should like to see the 
bottom of them:” which request was instantly complied with ; 
when he expressed himself satisfied with the success of the 
experiment. The plants of the third parcel, which were planted 
in the exposed situation, did not make much progress for the 
first two years after being planted; neither have they as yet 
made such strong shoots as the plants of either the first or 
second parcels. ‘This I attribute, in a great degree, to the 
exposure of the situation; and to want of shade, of which the 
family of rhododendrons seems to be peculiarly fond. Still the 
plants are very healthy, and flower profusely: their average 
height is from 2 ft. to 3 ft. 

It will be seen, by the above statement, that the adoption of 
my present practice was a matter, not of choice, but of neces- 
sity; and, from the success which has attended it, I am led to 
infer, that, in all sheltered situations, where a moderate degree 
of shade is afforded, and where the soil is of a light sandy 
nature, the &hedodéndron will grow and flower well, without 


and Flowering of the Rhododendron. 35 


any peat earth whatever; provided the ground has been pro- 
perly prepared, by trenching and breaking of the surface, so 
that all the grass and vegetable matter be properly mixed. I 
deprecate the too general practice of pitting and planting with- 
out the ground being previously well trenched. It may be 
proper to state, that the Zhododéndron is to be seen growing 
here very luxuriantly, in banks of very strong clay : in this case, 
after the ground had been well trenched and broken, I had pits 
made according to the size of the plants, and a portion of peat 
earth placed under and around each plant (say, from one to two 
barrowfuls, according to the size of the plant). Notwithstand- 
ing my having filled the pits with peat earth, I am satisfied that 
rhododendrons, and other American plants of the same tribe, 
usually grown in peat, will grow and thrive even in clay, and 
perfectly well in loam, if it be trenched, and a portion of leaf 
mould and of the scrapings off roads be mixed with it; the plants 
being planted in the neighbourhood of large trees, so as to be 
benefited by their shade. I have planted American shrubs with 
success at all seasons, but prefer from the second week of Au- 
gust to the end of December ; always taking advantage of a mild 
day, and always giving, after the planting, a good supply of 
water. I would add, that the same treatment that I have recom- 
mended for rhododendrons is here applied to kalmias, azaleas, 
andromedas, vacciniums, and cistuses: and to all with an equally 
satisfactory result. 

I would recommend all, who may wish to cultivate the Aho- 
dodéndron pénticum extensively, to provide their stock of plants 
by raising them from seeds. ‘The mode is a cheap one; and, 
besides the number of the plants which may be obtained by it, 
a considerable variety of kinds is acquired. In those which I 
have reared, the variety is almost endless, as to the shape, size, 
and colour, both of the leaves and flowers, particularly of the 
latter. The seeds should be sown in February, upon a gentle 
hot-bed. 

In offering the above observations, I disclaim all notion of 
originality : all I can say is, that I have attempted to give a 
detailed account of the method practised here. Should any 
admirers of these beautiful evergreens feel inclined to adopt the 
practice which I have endeavoured to describe, I can, with con- 
fidence, assure them, that it will be found an economical mode of 
obtaining fine healthy flowering plants. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Joun Gow. 
Tulliallan Gardens, Dec. 13. 1833. 


=] 
(ee) 


36 Limes, Citrons, §¢., at Coombe Royal. 


Art. XI. Description of the Lime, Citron, Orange, and Lemon Trees 
at Coombe Royal, the Seat of John Luscombe, Esy., Devonshire. 
Communicated by the Proprietor. 


TueE following brief description of the lime, citron, orange, 
and lemon trees at Coombe Royal, and of the manner in which 
they are treated, may not prove unacceptable to the readers of 
the Gardener’s Magazine : — 

The trees are planted against a south wall, which is divided 
by buttresses, forming recesses, in which the trees are trained 
in the manner of common fruit trees. Each recess is 123 ft. 
wide, and about the same in height; and is protected, during 
the winter, by a frame of wood, which is wholly removed in the 
summer; and partially, by day, at other seasons, the trees only 
requiring to be guarded from severe frost. A more interesting 
sight cannot well be imagined by the lovers of horticulture, than 
that which is presented by these trees on a sunny day in winter, 
when the open frames furnish a display of the richest foliage, 
and of fruit rivalling the produce of foreign countries. The 
soil, which is seldom manured, is light and rich, on a slaty sub- 
stratum, and seems admirably adapted to trees of the citron tribe; 
the situation in which they are grown is in a sheltered valley, 
protected from wind. It is necessary to add, that the lime is 
grown under glass in winter; but it is believed that the tree 
would thrive equally well under wood, and be more secure from 
frost and storms, a fine tree, in full bearing, having been de- 
stroyed a few years since by the accidental breaking of a frame 
or two of glass in winter. The fruit is produced abundantly by 
the citron, oranges, and lemons; by the lime, more sparingly, 
from the tree being young, and in a vigorously growing state: 
and, when gathered at a proper period, the fruit is of a fine 
flavour, and full of juice. Specimens of the fruit accompany this 
communication ; and some idea may be formed of the size which 
they attain, when it is stated that citrons are every year ripened, 
measuring from 14 in. to 18 in. in circumference : and, as a fur- 
ther proof of their luxuriancy, the reader is informed that there 
are now on the tree between three and four dozen green fruit, 
from blossoms produced in May and June last; some of which 
measure, at this time (September), 12 in. and 14 in. in circum- 
ference. Several young trees have recently been planted, which 
are in a thriving state. 

A Banksian medal was presented to the late John Luscombe 
Luscombe, Esq., by the London Horticultural Society, for 
oranges, lemons, and citrons exhibited in April, 1827. 


Coombe Royal, Devon, Sept. 25. 1833. 


On training the Peach Tree. 37 


Tue fruits received excited the admiration of ourselves and 
every one who saw them, both for magnitude and colour. Their 
weight and dimensions were as follows : — 


One citron, measuring 183 in. round the long, and 17 in. round the short, 
circumference, and weighing 36 oz. 

One citron, 182 in. by 163in.; and weighing 37% oz. 

One green citron, 15 in. by 144 in.; and weighing 173 oz. 

One lemon, 114 in. by 9in.; and weighing 5 oz. 

One unripe lemon, 114 in. by 83 in.; and weighing 73 oz. 

One orange, 94 in. by 94 in.; and weighing 64 oz. 

One orange, 104 in. by 92 in.; and weighing 63 oz. 

One orange, 94 in. by 92 1n.; and weighing 5 oz. 

Among the leaves which enveloped the fruit, one of those of 
the citron measured 102in. in length, and 6? in. in breadth ; 
and the others were large in proportion. 

On tasting the fruit, we found the oranges without much 

® juice; but the citrons and lemons were full of juice, and most 
excellent. Of the oranges and citrons we made a most delicious 
preserve; and the lemons were used for culinary purposes. — 
Cond. 


Art. XII. On training the Peach Tree. By Mr. Epwarp Ca.tow, 
Author of a Treatise on the Cultivation of the Mushroom. (See 
VIII. 213.) 

Sir, 

I rrusr the result of a long and successful practice in training 
the peach tree will not be refused a place in your pages, or 
be thought undeserving the attention of your readers. I profess 
no new theory of training, and, indeed, suspect that, perhaps, the 
many that have been sent abroad to the world, tend rather to 
bewilder than to instruct, and to draw the attention of the gar- 
dener to fantastic forms, instead of simply teaching him to observe 
the dictates of nature. 

The peach tree will, for the first few years of its growth, endure 
to be trained in almost any form, and may, for a short period, 
bear fruit under almost any mismanagement; but when a tree is 
trained to a shape very different from what it would naturally 
assume, it can, I conceive, have a life of but short duration. The 
weak and diseased trees which are so frequently seen against our 
fruit-tree walls (the miserable state of which is generally attri- 
buted to soil, situation, or climate) are more frequently produced 
by improper treatment than any other cause; for it is common 
in the practice of horticulture to attribute all failures to natural 
causes, when, in truth, many of them are the effects of our own 
folly or inattention. 

In my first attempt at training the peach tree, I followed the 

D3 


38 On training the Peach Tree. 


fan manner, but found the lower branches to become soon weak, 
and, in a few years, to decay altogether, leaving the under 
parts of the wall naked and unsightly; and, in such cases, re- 
planting after eight or ten years became necessary. But this 
was not a decay from age; it was produced by the lower branches 
_ having been laid at a less angle than others, which deprived them 
of their due propertion of sap. While striving to obviate this 
difficulty, I was struck with the form of the lower branches of 
some large elms, which, though they projected ever so far ho- 
rizontally, still had their extremities always inclined upwards. 

Taking these branches for my guide, I altered my mode of 
training, and, by turning up the extremities of the branches”, 
so as to give to all an equal inclination and equal curvature, 
convex towards the horizontal line of the earth, I was enabled 
to maintain all parts of the tree in equal vigour. This mode of 
training has continued to be my practice upwards of thirty years, 
and, under it, the trees have grown to a large size, and have 
continued in a full state of health to a considerable age. 

Mr. Knight has observed “ that each variety of the apple tree 
has its own peculiar form of growth, and this it will ultimately 
assume, in a considerable degree, in defiance of the art of the 
pruner.” ‘This observation is most correct with regard to all 
standard fruit trees, and it is in some measure applicable to those 
trained against walls. We may see a whole tribe of plants with 
a tendency to assume some decided form, and again, in the va- 
rieties, marks of slight variation; yet all this is totally disregarded 
in a tree placed against a wall; its branches are then compelled 
by shreds and nails to follow a course forced upon them by the 
often capricious will of the gardener. But Nature, though she 
appears to be awhile submissive, soon tires of undue restraint, 
and sickness and disease in the trees are the inevitable conse- 
quences of forcing her to abandon her accustomed habits. 

The sketch herewith sent (fg. 5.) is that of a white nectarine 
tree, now growing in the gardens of the Honourable and Reverend 
George Neville Grenville, at Butleigh: this will illustrate my 
ideas of shape and form, and, from its age and size, your readers 
will be enabled to form some estimate of the merits of the plan. 
This tree was planted in 1810; it completely covers a wall of 
12 ft. high, and extends to 44 ft. in width; its sides are of equal 
strength, and the curvature of the branches gives it a pleasing 
appearance. Its produce, when thinned to four fruit per square 
foot, will be from about 150 to 180 dozen; a quantity not un- 
usual for it to bear. 

I agree with Mr. Lindley [in his excellent Guide to the 
Orchard and Kitchen Garden] in recommending the annual 


* This seems to resemble Mr. Hayward’s mode of training peach trees. 
See VIII. 653. 


On training the Peach Tree. 39 


shortening of the young wood; 
for this is necessary to insure 
a succession of bearing shoots, 
without which the crops must 
be partial and defective. In- 
deed, I have practised the 
method of pruning approved 
of by that writer, and have 
nothing to add to his brief 
observations, but my entire 
concurrence in them. 

The soil of the border in 
which the nectarine tree above 
| referred to, and many others, 
\ were at the same time planted, 
is a strong loam; the border 
was made 12 ft. wide, 2 ft. 
deep, and the bottom paved 
with flag stones: no dung 
nor any manure was used in 
making the border, or at any 
subsequent period. Insects 
were particularly attended to, 
and, whenever they appeared, 
they were carefully destroyed. 
In dry weather the trees were 
washed with the engine twice, 
and sometimes three times a 
week. Disbudding was prac- 
tised ; no more shoots were left 
in thesummer than were neces- 
sary for producing fruit the 
next year. The fork only 
was used for stirring the bor- 
der (which was frequently 
done during the summer 
months), but in the winter it 
was slightly dug with thespade, 
and laid in ridges: no vege- 
tables were sown or planted on 
it, except a few lettuce or en- 
dive near the walk. Whenever 
a luxuriant shoot or large 
branch was to be taken out, it 
was done in the months of 
June or July [so that the wounds made were always healed over 
before winter]. The trees, when in blossom, were protected by 

Dp 4 


SSS 


= eS 
———— 


40 Successful Mode of securing 


bunting: to effect this, hoards six inches wide were fastened 
under the coping; to these boards iron rods were fastened: on 
these the bunting was suspended by rings; each piece of bunt- 
ing was of the size of the tree; and in the daytime it was 
drawn from the sides to the middle, and fastened to the wall. 
This covering not only protected the blossoms, but the tender 
shoots also; and prevented the formation of those large blis- 
tered leaves, which are so destructive to the young wood, and 
which render it quite unfit for producing fruit. ‘The trees being 
kept thin of wood, not more than four fruit, on an average, were 
left, at the final thinning, on a space of one square foot. 

On the first appearance of the aphides, Scotch snuff was 
thrown on the extremities of the shoots; no eurled leaf was re- 
moved before the snuff was laid on, nor until the shoot advanced 
m growth and had formed two or three clean leaves; the curled 
leaves were then taken off, and the tree washed with the engine. 

Although so much has been written on the pruning, training, 
and management of peach trees, all that is necessary to be known 
may be reduced to a very few words, and carried into effect by any 
person who will attend to the following short directions: —Use 
a strong loam for the border; never crop it; add no manure; 
keep the trees thin of wood by disbudding, and the early re- 
moval of useless wood; shorten each shoot, according to its 
strength, at the spring pruning; elevate the ends of the leading 
branches, so that they may all form the same curvilinear inclin- 
ation with the horizon: and, what is of the utmost importance in 
the culture of the peach, at all times keep the trees in a clean and 
healthy state. I remain, Sir, yours, &c. 

Epwarp CaLLow. 
Butleigh, near Glastonbury, Dec. 28. 1833. 


Art. XIII. A successful Mode of securing a Crop of Fruit on Pear 
Trees. By Mr. B. Saunpers, Nurseryman in the Island of Jersey. 


Sir, 

Tue fact that many disappointments are experienced by gar- 
deners, and also by amateurs, in their endeavour to procure 
crops of many fine sorts of pears, is so well known, that it needs 
only to be mentioned to be assented to. The practical appli- 
cation of the following suggestion will, however, remove, in 
many instances, these disappointments, and insure good crops. 

There are many varieties of pears, which, every year, blos- 
som very abundantly; and yet, to the great disappointment of 
the cultivator, the whole of the flowers fall off without setting 
a single fruit, although the soil and situation may be very con- 


a Crop of Fruit on Pear Trees. 41 


genial, and every care has been taken in planting, &c. This is 
the case with the Duchesse d’ Angouleme, and with many others 
I could mention. ‘The trees of these varieties, according to my 
observations, devote the whole of their strength and sap to the 
production of a superabundance of blossoms; but, unless they 
are assisted by art, they have not sufficient strength to set their 
fruit. In order, then, to remedy this defect, and to assist nature 
as much as possible, I have adopted the following plan, with 
great success and satisfaction, for the last three years: — 

Take a pair of scissors (such as are used for thinning grapes), 
and go over the corymbs of flowers, or rather of flower-buds, as 
soon as they are sufficiently elongated to allow the points of the 
scissors to pass between them (that is, some days before the 
blossoms are expanded), and thin them; leaving only five or six 
blossoms in each, according to the size of the corymb: always 
preferring to leave the flowers which have the stoutest stalks, 
and those which are nearest the centre. This operation has the 
effect of diverting the sap to the flowers which remain, and gives 
them sufficient strength to set from one to three fruits in each 
umbel; which will prove a sufficient crop, and weli repay the 
labour bestowed. Another mode, less tedious than the abeve, 
is also practised here, with success, on young trees. It consists 
in deferring that part of the pruning of them which is termed 
shortening the young wood, until the blossoms are in about the 
same state as is described in the above directions for thinning, and 
then shortening them back to the required length. This also 
checks the progress of the sap, and enables the tree to set fruit very 
freely. Jam aware that my plan is a tedious one, and one that is 
almost impracticable on a large scale ; but it is decidedly an 
excellent plan for dwarf trees in gardens, whether they are cul- 
tivated in the guenouille mode, against walls, or as espaliers ; as 
these trees come within the reach of the hand, of a pair of steps, 
or of a ladder. In the hope that these remarks may, through 
your indulgence, avail my fellow-labourers in horticulture, at the 
coming season, I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

BrrNaRD SAUNDERS. 
Nursery, Island of Jersey, Dec. 6. 1833. 


WE recommend the above article to the particular attention of young 
gardeners. The system of disbudding advised in the preceding paper by 
Mr. Callow, and that of thinning out blossoms suggested in the above paper 
by Mr. Saunders, are applicable to all fruit trees ; and, if generally adopted, 
would insure important results. We know an instance of a large apple 
orchard, the property of a commercial gardener in Kent, in which a knife has 
never been used: every thing is effected by disbudding, and pinching out 
young wood with the finger andthumb. The proprietor is not a scientific gar- 
dener; and he adopted the above practice from no particular theory, but 
simply from his own observation. and experience, to save labour, and to 
insure good crops of large fruit. We hope to see his orchard next summer, 
and to report on it. — Cond. 


AQ Purple Broccoli from Slips. 


Art. XIV. On growing large Gooseberries for Exhibition. 
By Mr. M. Saut. 
Sir, 

In the year 1827, I sent you an account of the mode then 
practised in this county, of training gooseberry trees, so as to 
make them produce large show fruit. (See III. 421.) At that 
time, it was generally supposed that to obtain fine show goose- 
berries it was necessary to train the trees; and that, if so treated, 
in five or six years they would be found to have become strong, 
and would be sure to produce large fruit. ‘The result of seven 
years’ experience, however, proves that training is quite unneces- 
sary. Gooseberry bushes are only found to produce fruit suit- 
able for exhibition when they are four or five years old; because 
the fruit after that age decreases in size, though it increases in 
number. Gooseberries rarely, if ever, produce fruit of a very 
large size for more than two years together; and generally only 
one season. ‘The mode usually now practised here is, to take a 
gooseberry tree out of the nursery in its second year. ‘The next 
year (being the first after transplanting) it is not allowed to 
bear any fruit; but the year following, that is, in the fourth year 
of its age, it is in its prime, and will produce its largest and 
finest fruit. We seldom hear of the same tree producing equally 
fine fruit for even two years in succession : the Bumper, which 
produced the largest berry in 1832, weighing 30 dwts. 18 grs. 
(LX. 98.), this year (1833) did not produce any berry weighing 
above 22 dwts. 5 grs.; and many other examples might be given. 
[The weights of the largest gooseberries grown in 1833 will be 
found (in p. 96.) under the head of Provincial Societies.] ‘There 
are fewer new. gooseberries going out this season than last. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
M. Saut. 
Sulyard Street, Lancaster, Dec. 6. 1833. 


Art. XV. On propagating the Purple Broccoli from Slips, and on 
the Agency of Manure prepared from Sea Weed in improving various 
Vegetables. By Mr. T. Rutcer. 


Sir, 

On reading Mr. Kendall’s article upon the propagation of cab- 
bages from slips (IX. 226.), I feel inclined to draw the attention 
of your readers to the growing of purple broccoli in the same way ; 
a practice which was adopted, some years since, in the west of 
Cornwall, and, for aught I know, may be still continued there. 
The variety thus treated seemed to be rather peculiar in its 
habits, and compact and handsome in its growth. The head 


Agency of Manure from Sea Weed. 43 


being removed for culinary purposes, the method was to let the 
stump remain, which had already thrown out sprouts * below; 
and these, on being left to grow, showed no indication to form heads 
for that season. In the month of June, the sprouts were suffi- 
ciently advanced to be slipped off; and, after being exposed a day 
or two in the sun to cauterise the wound, they were planted out 
in the usual manner. In two or three weeks they had taken 
root, and in the course of the autumn made fine stocky plants. 
I have seen many, instances of the broccoli thus grown having 
heads three feet in circumference, and as close and compact as 
possible; but this extraordinary luxuriance was, I believe, prin- 
cipally owing to the nature of the manure used. 

This manure consisted principally of sea weed, of the genus 
U'lva, several varieties of which are drifted on the sands in im- 
mense quantities in stormy weather. ‘The weed forms a principal 
article of manure to the farmers, as well as to the market-gar- 
deners in the neighbourhood of Penzance and other parts in the 
west of England, and is sought with avidity by both classes after 
a heavy gale, it being found, from experience, to be an excellent 
manure for a single crop. The farmers in that neighbourhood 
mix it up with earth collected from furrows ploughed at certain 
distances in the field, and with sea sand, and, thus mixed, it ra- 
pidly decomposes, and soon becomes fit for use. ‘The market- 
gardeners and cottagers frequently make use of it as a manure, in 
its raw state, for onions, potatoes, &c. For onions, the ground 
is so prepared, that, after a layer of it is spread over the surface, 
there may be a sufficient quantity of earth to cover it about two 
or three inches thick; after this has been levelled, the seeds 
are sown and raked in, and the produce, in many instances, is but 
little, if any thing, inferior in size to the onions imported from 
Lisbon. For potatoes, it is used either by putting a layer of it 
over the sets, whether in furrows or beds, and afterwards covering 
it with earth ; or putting a layer ofit first, placing the sets upon it, 
and then a covering of earth. In reference to the kidney potato, 
I think I may safely aver, that in no part of England are po- 
tatoes of this description to be found equal in quality to those 
grown in the neighbourhood of Penzance; where, by extraordi- 
nary labour and care, they are frequently brought to market from 
the open ground by the middle of May. ‘The sort principally 
grown for an early crop is known there by the name of “ the 
Yorkshire kidney.” I am not certain if this be its proper ap- 


* The following fact evinces the capacity of broccoli for forming sprouts : — 
“ Two dozen of broccoli, a dozen of which were very fine and fit for table, 
were, within the last few days, cut from one stem, grown in the garden of 
Mr. Lewis, nurseryman, of Chelmsford.” (Bury and Norwich Post, May 29. 
1833.) See also a notice of a broccoli plant which had stood six years, and 
produced good heads from sprouts every year, VI. 492.— J. D. 


Ads Culture of the Carrot for constant Supply. 


pellation, but it forms a long, handsome, flattish, tuber, with the 
crown of a purplish hue. 

With regard to the broccoli noticed above, in the ordinary 
course of garden culture, it forms a head averaging about two 
feet in circumference; its flavour is excellent, and, as such, it may 
be well recommended to notice; more especially as, by its being 
propagated from slips, it is secured from any variation from its 
natural habit. I am, Sir, yours, Xc. 

T. RutTeGeEr. 
Shorigrove, Essex, Oct. 1833. 


Art. XVI. On the Mode of securing a Supply of young Carrots 
throughout the Year. By Mr. T. Rurcer. 
Sir, 

In cases where young carrots are required all the year round, 
the following mode of culture will be found to answer in pro- 
ducing them. 

In the first week of August, sow a crop of the short-horn 
kind in a cold frame, and a crop to succeed it in the third week 
of August, also in a cold frame, the latter of which will be at 
least two months after the first in coming in. Larly in January 
sow a crop on a slow hot-bed, under glass; and early in 
February, on a slow hot-bed, under hoops and mats; in the suc- 
ceeding months, sow occasionally in the open ground. 

The above brief directions are, of course, sufficient, as there is 
no occasion for entering into details about soil, thinning, X&c., 
which every one conversant with gardening knows: but perhaps 
a question may arise as to the necessity of sowing in frames in 
the month of Angust: it must, therefore, be understood, that 
these crops are to serve through all the winter; and, therefore, it 
will be found that glass will be of essential service, as the weather 
grows cold; and not only glass, but a covering of mats also will 
be necessary, during the night, in severe weather. One thing, 
however, must be attended to in the use of glass; namely, to be 
careful to give sufficient air at all times to keep the plants from 
getting drawn. 

Abercrombie is, in my opinion, deficient upon the culture of 
this esculent for the purpose of having it young all the year 
round; and I much question if his method will answer fully in 
the most favourable situations, as to soil and climate, that Britain 
will afford. I remain, Sir, yours, &c. 

Shortgrove, Essex, Dec. 1833. T. Rurerr. 


We have rectified Abercrombie’s account in the new edition 
of our Encyc.'‘of Gard. now publishing, § 4121. — Cond. 


Cultivation of Sea-kale at Bath. 45 


Art. XVII. Remarks on the Cultivation of Sea-kale, as practised by 
the Bath Gardeners. By WautTeR WILLIAM Capper, Esq. 
Sir, 

Pernars the following peculiar method of cultivating sea-kale 
by the Bath gardeners may be acceptable to some of your 
readers. As this manner is apparently very unnatural, 1 am 
induced to preface it by describing the habits of growth of the 
plant, which grows naturally on the sandy shores of Sussex and 
Hampshire, and also many other places round the coast of Eng- 
land. The buds of some of these plants, during the winter, are 
subject to be covered several inches deep with the drifted sand, 
so that, in the spring, the young heads which push through it 
have their leaves quite close together. ‘Their appearance, when 
in this state, being like small cabbages, must have first induced 
the inhabitants to eat them; and their delicacy and succulency, 
added to their precocity, must have ultimately led to their culti- 
vation in gardens. ‘This took place probably about the middle 
of last century. (See Lncyc. of Gard. new edit. §4299.) During 
my visit to Southampton last year, I saw sea-kale several times 
in the market which had been taken from the shore, but it was 
very inferior to that raised by the gardeners there. 

In the first volume of the Transactions of the Horticultural 
Society it is recommended, in a paper dated 1803, to grow sea- 
kale under large earthen pots: but these are very expensive, and 
difficult to manage; besides, the plants thus treated are not so 
productive as they are by the Bath method. My instructor in 
this method was Mr. M‘Pherson, who cultivated a large garden 
opposite the South Parade at Bath; and, although it is upwards of 
thirty years since he taught me, I do not find that his method 
has beer improved upon. 

The seed is to be sown very thin early in April, on a bed of 
4. ft. wide, which is to be kept clear of weeds during the summer. 
It is certainly the best way to raise your own plants; but, as a 
year is lost in so doing, I should recommend the owners of small 
gardens to procure them from some neighbouring nursery, as 
they will cost there only from 3s. to 5s. per hundred, and a 
season is saved. In taking them up, be careful that their roots 
are not broken, or dried by exposing them to the atmosphere ; 
for in either case the plants will not thrive with so much vigour 
the following summer. 

Having procured the plants in the month of March or April, 
select a part of the garden sloping to the sun : its breadth from 
east to west should be wider than its depth from north to south, 
that the rains may the sooner run off the ground. ‘The soil 
should be light, and dug two spades deep, with a moderate 
quantity of rotten dung well intermixed. Particular attention 
should also be paid that every clod is well broken; for the roots 


46 Cultivation of Sca-kale, 


run very deep. Then mark out the whole of the ground from 
east to west into divisions of 2 ft. 3in. each; down the centre of 
the second and every other division put in the plants one foot 
apart: these divisions I shall call the beds, and the others the 
paths ; but remember to begin with one path, and finish at the 
farther end with another, and put short strong stakes at the 
corners of every bed. During the summer these paths are to be 
dug over at least three times, to the depth of 10 in., in order to 
render the soil extremely fine; but, should it be ofa close texture, 
then remove part of it, and bring, in the place of what you 
remove, an equal quantity of sand. On no account use riddled 
ashes, instead of sand; for their rugged surfaces injure the soft 
cellular vessels of all roots, and hurt their soft expanding leaves. 

The plants will not be sufficiently strong, the second year of 
their growth after planting, to be worth forcing with hot manure ; 
but they will be worth the trouble of covering with the soil from 
the paths: besides, they must be cut off to increase the number of 
their suckers. About the third week in February, when the 
weather is dry, mark out the paths 2 ft. 3 in. wide, and when the 
soil is finely broken, lay it upon the beds 8 or 9 in. thick; so that 
the beds and the paths, when covered, will appear like ¢ in fe. 6. 
As spring advances, examine the plants by removing the soil 


d 


with your hands, and when they are grown 7 or 8 in. high, cut 
them off a little below the bottom leaf: their heads will be found 
perfectly white, and all the leaves growing close together. 

As you gather the heads, throw a little soil over their roots. 
Although the buds have grown in soil, very little will be attached 
to them; and this little is easily removed by plunging them into 
water, holding them by the upper end of the stem. 

If the weather is settled about the end of April, the beds are 
to be entirely uncovered; this operation will appear to many to 
be most extraordinary ; but it is essentially necessary, otherwise 
the few small heads that may be left uncut will go to seed, and 
injure the plant for the two following seasons. The gardener 
must take a’sharp bright spade and commence at the end of each 
bed and throw the soil down into the paths, cutting off every 
head or parts that may be higher than the original level of the 
beds (in fg. 6. ab) before the soil was first placed upon them. 
The vital principle in the roots of the sea-kale is so great, that 
they cannot be injured by being’ cut through; as will be soon 


as practised by the Bath Gardeners. 47 
seen by the number of suckers or offsets that will arise from 
their roots. During this second summer, the beds must be 
kept free from weeds, and the paths dug as before, and the 
plants carefully examined, retaining only four or five of the 
largest suckers at regular distances round their stems. If the 
heads of these plants had been left uncut, every one of them 
would have gone to seed during the summer, and injured the 
plants for the two following summers; besides, by cutting them 
off, they throw up a numerous offspring, to select buds from for 
future growth. ‘The following winter the plants are to be forced, 
and, before the frosts commence, the beds are to be covered with 
a little long litter, to prevent the frost from penetrating the soil. 
About the middle of December, remove the litter from that 
portion you intend to force, and cover the beds, as you did 
before, with the soil from the paths; then cover that soil 2 ft. 
high or more, and also fill the paths with hot manure, so that 
the whole may be on a level, as shown at d in jig. 6. 

The following Directions are for the Third Year :— In about 
the fourth week the heads will be fit to cut: to do which, 
remove the manure with a fork, then displace the soil with your 
hands in a very gentle manner, otherwise the leaves will be 
broken, for they are extremely tender; cut the heads off a little 
below the bottom leaf, and cover the roots again with seil and 
manure to keep the frost from injuring them. In proportion to 
the number of beds, the period of forcing must be divided; but 
where they are numerous, and hot manure is to be regularly had 
in abundance, it might be wheeled upon the beds and paths as 
it is made, which will give a regular weekly supply: but, where 
no manure is to be had, the plants are to be covered with the 
soil, and gathered, as before mentioned. ‘The plants, beds, and 
paths are to be managed exactly as they were directed to be 
during the preceding summer; but on no account suffer the 
beds to be raised even an inch above their original level, although 
the roots are become much thicker. ‘They are still to be cut 
through with the spade where they are too high, otherwise the 
beds will be spoiled. After the manure and soil are removed 
from the beds during the third spring, dig up every other plant, 
leaving the others 2 ft. apart, and they will fully occupy the beds. 
Each individual plant during the third summer will consist of 
many stems, and each of these will send up many suckers: to 
retain the whole would not only weaken the plant, but would 
produce the sea-kale of diminutive growth; therefore leave only 
four or five of the strongest toeach stem, and remove the rest: 
those retained will appropriate to themselves the nourishment of 
those removed, and become larger in consequence. 

During the Fourth and future Years, the plants are to be 
managed according to the directions given for the third; but 


48 Cultivation of Sea-kale at Bath. 


should too many stems arise from the main root, they must be cut 
off. As soon as the plants cease to produce abundantly, new beds 
are to be made; the seeds for which may be saved from a few of 
the finest plants, by leaving their heads entirely uncovered. 

To dress Sea-kale. — Mr. Gibbs, the eminent pastry-cook and 
restaurateur at Bath, favoured me with the following method of 
dressing sea-kale :—Tie the sea-kale in bundles, boil it in plenty 
of water with a little salt in it, for 20 minutes, observing to let 
the water boil before it is put in; have a toast ready, dip it in 
the water, put it on the dish and the sea-kale upon it; pour a 
little white sauce over it, consisting of an equal quantity of veal 
gravy and cream thickened with flour and butter. If desired, 
a less rich sauce may be made by Jeaving out the gravy, and 
substituting milk for the cream. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Water Wiliam Capper. 
Hanley, near Malvern, Worcestershire, Dec. 12. 1833. 


Tue excellence of the sea-kale sold in the Bath market is well 
known. ‘The specimen sent to us by Mr. Capper, two years 
ago, was of a very superior description; the heads were much 
larger than are usually seen about London, and much more suc- 
culent. We found it also much richer in taste when dressed. 
It is easy to conceive that sea-kale, grown in loamy manured 
soil, will have a richer taste than such as grows in a wild state 
among the barren sands of a sea-shore, or is grown in sandy 
soil ina garden. In the two latter cases, the soil must be de- 
ficient in the nutritive matter requisite to produce that degree of 
richness, joined to succulency, which is so desirable in this vege- 
table, and which the Bath gardeners succeed so well in produc- 
ing. ‘The Bath mode of growing this vegetable we have seen 
practised by some market-gardeners about Fulham, and also in 
some private gardens, but it is by no means so general as it de- 
serves to be. Perhaps it may be alleged against this mode of 
culture that the thick covering of soil put over the plants will 
retard their progress in spring more than the usual coverings of 
sand, ashes, or blanching-pots; because the sun’s rays will pene- 
trate through the latter more readily than through the former: 
but, admitting this to be the case (which, no doubt, it will be, 
to a certain extent), the saving of the first expense and annual 
breakage of these blanching-pots, and the superiority of the 
article produced, will surely afford ample compensation for the 
retardation of the crop for a week or ten days. It will be seen 
that sea-kale can be grown in the Bath manner with the greatest 
ease at any season, by covering the rows with warm dung, more 


especially if that dung be partially or wholly protected from 
rain. — Cond. 


49 


REVIEWS. 


Art. I. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, 
Rural Architecture, &c., lately published, with some Account of 
those considered the most interesting. 


RENNIE, James, A.M., Professor of Zoology in King’s College, 
Londen, &c.: Magazine of Botany and Gardening, &c. In 
monthly numbers, 4to. 


Having noticed this work (IX. 351.) on its first appearance, we 
should not have again recurred to it, but for the following letter 
from Professor Lindley, which we leave to speak for itself: — 

* Dear Sir, In Berrow’s Worcester Journal of the 28th 
Nov. 1833, I have been shown the following advertisement : — 
‘ Published on the 1st of every month, the Magazine of Botany 
and Gardening, British and Foreign. Edited by J. Rennie, M.A. 
Professor of Zoology, King’s College, London; asszsted by some 
of the most eminent botanists in Europe. Kach number contains 
eight plates of the most rare and valuable specimens of plants, 
executed by an eminent artist, and coloured from nature; also, 
sixteen quarto pages of original matter. ‘The numbers already 
published contain a variety of articles by Professor Rennie, 
Colonel Capper, Professor Lindley, a valuable article on Botany 
by Mrs. Marcet, Professor Burnett, Sir Wm. Jardine, Mr. Jas. 
Munro, M. Adolphe Brongniart, Mr. W. Moorcroft, Mr. George 
Don, Mr. Jesse, Rev. John Fleming, M. Bremontier, Mr. Doyle, 
Dr. G. Johnston, Mr. Henry Marshall, Mr. R. Brown, Mr. John 
Donaldson, and many others of equal talent. London: pub- 
lished by G. Henderson, 2. Old Bailey, Ludgate Hill; and sold 
by all booksellers in town and country.’ 

‘From the ingenious manner in which this is worded, it must 
doubtless be imagined by the public, as it was by the person who 
called my attention to the paragraph, that this original matter is 
furnished to Mr. Professor Rennie by those writers whose names 
he has made use of. But, as Iam not ambitious of the honour of 
being considered one of this gentleman’s contributors, I shall be 
very much obliged if you will be so good as to allow me to state, 
through the Gardener’s Magazine, that no original matter what- 
ever has been either supplied or promised to Mr. Professor 
Rennie by me. He has availed himself of some passages in 
works written by me, as he also has of others in the works of 
several of the writers mentioned in the advertisement; and this 

Vou. X.— No. 48. E 


50 Poynter's Cottage Gardener. 


is, I presume, what is meant by being ‘ assisted by some of 
the most eminent botanists of Europe;’ but, if so, the public 
should understand it rightly. Yours, faithfully.—-John Lindley. 
January 2. 1834.” 


_ Poynter, Thomas, Market-Gardener at North End, Fulham: 
The Cottage Gardener; being a Sketch on useful Gardening, 
designed for the Use of the Labouring Cottagers of England. 
Pamphlet, 8vo. London, 1833. Is. 6d. 


This is an excellent little work, which may be described -as 
strictly practical, without pretensions either to theory or science. 
The author states, in his introduction, that he does not “ presume 
to instruct the gardeners of noblemen and gentlemen,” but to 
give a ‘brief sketch, as short and clear as possible, and at a price 
that may iet it circulate in almost every cottage in England,” of 
the “‘ times, seasons, and methods of cultivating such articles as 
may be useful to English labourers.” ‘The work is arranged in 
two divisions: the first contains general observations ‘ on cot- 
tage gardens, soils, cultivation, manure, and tillage, digging, 
hoeing, sowing, transplanting, propagation, layers, budding and 
grafting, sowing of seeds, weeds, and on the climate of England :” 
the second division contains a cottage gardener’s calendar for 
every month in the year. ‘There is an appendix, in three di- 
visions : the first is on “* cucumbers, cauliflowers, and sea-kale and 
blanching ;” the second on “fruit trees and fruit shrubs, and 
their management ;” and the third on “ flowers and shrubs.” 

In the paragraph on “ cottage gardens,” the author gives the 
following, as what he would “ choose,” if he had a cottage to 
build and a garden to lay out: —“ A four-roomed house, con- 
sisting of a kitchen, small parlour, two bed-rooms, wash-house, 
something of a cellar, and a pantry. ‘The house should nearly 
front the mid-day sun. To the west, a cow-house and pigsties; 
at the eastern end, a tool and barrow shed; but situations may 
be such as to place these more advantageously elsewhere. For 
extent of garden, let us take our old Saxon king Alfred’s allow- 
ance. <A rood, or 40 square poles, of land, nearly facing the 
south or south-west; a gentle slope, if we can get it so; and if it is 
sheltered from the north, and particularly from the north-east, 
the better. ‘Ten rods of land, well cultivated, will furnish a 
cottager’s family, in the way in which it is now supplied, with 
vegetables: but I am thinking of helping to keep a cow, or goats, 
or a pig or two.” (p. 8.) 

The remarks on the different operations of culture, and espe- 
cially on tillage, are grounded on the theory of Tull. The most 
valuable part of the work is the calendar, in which the author 
gives practical directions from his own experience. 

The work may be described as calculated for those labourers 


Library of Landscape-Gardening. | 


who are rather superior to the common class. For labourers who 
can scarcely read, the best gardening tract yet produced is The 
Practical Directions (6d.) of Charles Lawrence, Esq. (VII. 216.); 
and for those who can read and think, and who have ground 
enough to keep a cow, and perhaps their own cottage to build, 
we would recommend, above all other works, Denson’s Peasant’s 
Voice (VII. 80.); and next to this, our own Cottage Manual. 
(VI. 292.) It gives us great pleasure to see tracts of this kind 
multiplied ; because we feel certain that they must do immense 
good to the great mass of society. We expect shortly two 
similar publications, more scientific than any of the above, from 
the pens of Professor Rennie and Mr. Main. 


Wallis, John, ‘Timber-surveyor, Belvidere Road, Westminster 
Bridge Road, Lambeth: Dendrology; in which are facts, 
experiments, and observations, demonstrating that trees and 
vegetables derive their nutriment independently of the earth; 
and also observations on decay and defects in trees, together 
with a brief method of pruning. London, 1833, 8vo. 


A piece of folly. ‘To review the book seriously, would be like 
breaking a butterfly upon the wheel. 


Wood, William, Nurseryman, at Maresfield, Sussex, and at the 
Barriére du Roule, Paris: A List of Roses. In a folio 
sheet. 


The first list in this sheet contains 800 names, with short de- 
scriptions annexed to each, but which are not classed in any 
manner whatever. ‘There are minor lists: viz., of 14 varieties of 
moss rose, with descriptions; 10 of the perpetual-flowering and 
hybrid roses; 31 of Noisettes; 14 of climbers; and 71 of China 
roses and their hybrids. It is also stated, that the nursery con- 
tains 123 sorts of the best Scotch roses, and 234 sorts of the 
best Dutch. Mr. Wood’s nursery at Maresfield, of about 20 
acres, which we visited in September last, is in a fine airy situa- 
tion, and the soil is of a saponaceous loamy description; both of 
which circumstances are highly favourable for the growth of 
roses, and of nursery articles generally. 


Art. Il. Literary Notices. 


A Liprary of Landscape-Gardening, edited by J.C. Loudon, 
is now in preparation, and the first number, in 8vo, price 2s. 6d., 
will very shortly appear. This work will be comprised in three 
8vo volumes (each complete in itself), which will be sold sepa- 
rately, or together, at 20s. each. The first volume will contain 
the whole of the Picturesque Works of the Rev. Wm. Gilpin, 


originally published in 14 volumes, at about 10/., and now nearly 
E 2 


52 Architectural Magazine. 


out of print. The second volume will contain reprints, abride- 
ments, extracts, or reviews, of all the British works on Landscape- 
Gardening, from the days of Shenstone to the present time, 
the cost ae which, in separate volumes, would amount to nearly 
—100/., and most of which cannot be obtained at any price, being 
out of print. ‘The third volume will consist entirely of trans- 
lations of works on Landscape-Gardening, from the French, 
German, and Italian, only one of which has hitherto appeared 
in English. Each volume will be accompanied by notes and 
graphic illustrations by the editor. ‘The notes and graphic illus- 
trations will have one single object in view, viz. that a illustrating 
the text as to the principles or practice of Landscape-Gardening 
and Architecture, and Taste or Criticism, as applied to these 
arts, or to rural matters generally. No miscellaneous notes will 
be admitted, and no attempt made to render the work what may 
be called an ornamental publication. Utility to young gardeners 
and architects, and to country gentlemen and amateurs of the 
rural arts, will be the editor’s salle guide in making annotations 
himself, or in selecting those of others. 

The great object of the editor, in producing this work, is to 
furnish a course of study preparatory to his Zncyclopedia of 
Landscape-Gardening, in one volume 4to, which will contain a 
summary of principles, and an extensive series of designs, illus- 
trative of their application to the laying out of every description 
of country residence, from the cottage to the palace. It was 
originally the editor’s intention to publish this Kncyclopeedia first, 
and the Library afterwards; but, recollecting that it was chiefly 
through the perusal of the works which he intends shall compose 
the Library, and through sketching from some of the scenes 
therein described, that he acquired his own knowledge of Land- 
scape-Gardening, he has determined on publishing the Library 
first, and the Encyclopeedia afterwards. 

The works of Gilpin will be published in the order in which 
they first appeared; commencing with the Essay on Prints; next 
the Observations on the Wye; then those on Cumberland and 
Westmoreland; and so on. ‘Those contributors to the Gardener’s 
Magazine, who may possess Gilpin’s works, are invited to send 
notes; more particularly ‘“* An Amateur” (of Woodstock), Cau- 
sidicus, Dendrophilus, Selim, J. I’. M. D. (of Shrewsbury), and 
W. T. B. (of Coventry). —J.C. L. Bayswater, Jan. 1834. 

The architectural Mate and Review; or Journal of Im- 
provement in Rural and: Domestic Architecture and Furniture, 
and in the Arts more immediately connected therewith ; forming 
a perpetual Supplement to the Encyclopedia of Cottage, Farm, 
and Villa Architecture and Furniture ; conducted by J.C. Loudon ; 
will appear on April 1., and be continued quarterly : pice 5S. 
with numerous engravings on wood. 


53 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. I. General Notices. 


THE Enjoyment of Reading. — We said a word or two on this subject in 
our preceding volume (p.728.); and, on account of its great importance to 
every individual, we cannot help again adverting to it. We recommend those 
who have not taken in the Penny Magazine from its commencement, at least 
to purchase No. 95., for September 28. 1833. It is most gratifying to reflect 
that there is not a human being, endowed with health and the ordinary con- 
dition of the human faculties, that may not participate in what Sir John Her- 
schel appears to consider the greatest of human pleasures. It is delightful to 
foresee that, when the whole of society shall be so far educated as to derive 
pleasure from reading, and when books are as common as bread and potatoes, 
the hardest-worked agricultural labourer or mechanic, when he goes home 
from his day’s toil, may plunge at once into intense enjoyment by taking up a 
book. The most gratifying circumstance respecting this enjoyment is its 
universality, and its applicability to all countries, all future ages, and to every 
human being in tolerable health and above destitution. It is equally appli- 
cable to man, whether in prosperity or in adversity ; whether in prison or free ; 
and even, to acertain extent, whether in health or sickness. Another gratifying 
prospect anticipated from the result of universal reading is, universal improve- 
ment of worldly circumstances. Let any taste become general, and the regu- 
lations and habits of seciety will accommodate themselves to that taste. The 
hours of fabour, at present, afford barely time for eating and sleeping; but 
when reading becomes a necessary of life to every, even the lowest, class of 
society, they will be reduced so as to afford time for that enjoyment also. 
Surely, if nothing else were to be gained by a system of national education, 
but the power of conferring so much happiness on millions, it would deserve 
the patronage of every benevolent mind, and be worthy the adoption alike of 
governments professing to be paternal or to be representative. But the main 
object which we have now in view is, to impress Sir John Herschel’s statement 
‘strongly on the mind of the young gardener, so as to encourage him, above all 
other earthly things, to cherish a taste for reading in himself, and in all those 
with whom he may have any thing to do. Another point to which we wish 
to direct attention is, the necessity, when a national system of education is 
established, of adding to every school, not only a garden, a workshop for 
teaching the simpler operations of the mechanical arts, and a kitchen for 
teaching the girls cookery, but also a circulating library for the benefit of the 
whole parish. In furtherance of these objects, we cannot resist giving the 
following short extract from Sir John Herschel’s address :—“ Of all the amuse- 
ments which can possibly be imagined for a hard-working man, after his daily 
toil, or in its intervals, there is nothing like reading an entertaining book, 
supposing him to have a taste for it, and supposing him to have the book to 
read. It calls for no bodily exertion, of which he has had enough, or too 
much. It relieves his home of its dulness and sameness, which, in nine cases 
out of ten, is what drives him out to the alehouse, to his own ruin and his 
family’s. It transports him into a livelier, and gayer, and more diversified and 
interesting scene ; and, while he enjoys himself there, he may forget the evils 
of the present moment, fully as much as if he were ever so drunk, with the 
ereat advantage of finding himself the next day with his money in his pocket, 
or, at least, laid out in real necessaries and comforts for himself and his 
family, — and without a headach. Nay, it accompanies him to his next 
day’s work ; and, if the book he has been reading be anything above the very 
idlest and lightest, gives him something to think of besides the mere me- 

E 3 


54 Foreign Notices : —rance, 


chanical drudgery of his every-day occupation, —something he can enjoy 
while absent, and look forward with pleasure to return to.”...“ If I were to 
pray for a taste which should stand me in stead under every variety of circum- 
stances, and be a source of happiness and cheerfulness to me through life, and 
a shield against its ills, however things might go amiss, and the world frown 
upon me, it would be a taste for reading.” (Penny Magazine, vol. ii. p. 375.) 
Gate-stoppers ave frequently found great annoyances, both in the approach 
roads to gentlemen’s houses, at their entrance lodges, and also in garden and 
shrubbery walks. There is a most abominable one, for 
7 example, a few paces within the entrance to the garden of 
Ls ,6 the Horticultural Society at Chiswick ; which J, being a 
short man, and, like all short people, being generally look- 
| ing up, have frequently nearly fallen over. Now, there is 
an excellent fall-down gate-stopper, invented by Messrs. 
Cottam and Hallen [ fg. 7.], which you have mentioned 
in your Supplement to the Encyclopedia of Agriculture, 
and which only costs about a shilling, if of the least size, 
such as is suitable to a garden gate. There is also a most 
ingenious self-acting gate-stopper described in the Quarterly 
Journal of Agriculture, vol. il. p. 236.; by which, the mo- 
ment the half of the gate begins to be opened, the stopper 
begins to be lowered ; and when the gate is wholly open, 
the stopper is level with the ground. This last is a Scotch 
invention, and must cost a good deal more than that of 
Messrs. Cottam and Hallen; but it is so ingenious, that I 
should strongly recommend its adoption in all pleasure- 
grounds. Messrs. Cottam and Hallen have promised me 
that they will procure one from the Kirkaldy foundery, where this last-men- 
tioned gate-stopper was first made, and exhibit it in their museum in Winsley 
Street. — J. 8. B. London, September, 1833. 


Art. II. Foreign Notices. 


FRANCE, 


THE Garden of M. Boursault, in the Rue Blanche (1X. 145.), has under- 
gone some important changes since you saw it in 1829, on account of the 
deranged state of the proprietor’s fortune. The large green-house which ran 
along the highest part of the garden has disappeared, and its place is filled 
by an espalier of peach trees, with a trellis of vines, or rather festoons of 
vines formed by planting a row in front of the wall, about 10 ft. distant from 
it; and leading a shoot from the top of each prop to the top of the wall. 
The Araucaria excélsa, the tub of which is sunk several feet deep in the 
earth, touches the top of the house, and wants room. The Wistiria Con- 
sequana flowers all the year round, and begins to bear seed. The greater 
part of the plants in this garden is now for sale, and I believe, even the 
land will be sold also. In the latter case I tremble for the existence of this 
admirable garden. — L.L. L. Paris, July 6. 1833. 

The Nursery and Seed Business, as it appears to me, is in a better position 
here than in England; that is to say, it is progressively increasing, in con- 
sequence of the increasing interest taken in every thing relating to the im- 
provement of the country, and especially of agriculture. The cultivators of 
ornamental plants are perhaps suffering a little; for, if it were not for some 
fashionable flowers, such as roses and georginas, they would not be able to 
support their establishments. One reason of this is, that they have increased 
in number amazingly within these few years. —V. Paris, Dec. 28. 1833. 

Lhe Country Seats between Havre and Rouen, which you recommended me 
to visit, I found in miserable order as compared with seats of similar extent 


Flolland and the Netherlands, Cape of Good Hope. 55 


in England. That in best keeping was Mailleraie, which was in about as 
good order as I have generally found Park Place, near Henley on Thames. 
Landin surpassed everything which I have seen in France. The elevated 
situation of the house, the noble bend of the river, its richly wooded banks, 
the extensive prospect over a flat country in front, and the island of fruit 
trees in the Seine, some hundreds of feet below the eye, all conspire to impress 
the mind with the most sublime emotions. One enjoys these feelings not the 
less by their contrast with those excited by the anxiety of the guide to point 
out seats and summer-houses. .1 asked to see some of the remains of the 
plaster of Paris shepherds and sheep; and a few fragments of the former, 
collected in the corner of a root-house, were pointed out as all that remained. 
At Rouen I found Prevost and Vallet in their respective nurseries, which 
were in tolerable order; but Calvert and Co. were gone. I was disappointed 
in the botanic garden, but it contains some fine old specimens, and, among 
these, I was most struck with the size of the Italian reed [Arando Donax], 
which is well worth introducing more extensively into British pleasure-grounds. 
— Henry A. Browne. Rouen, Dec. 1833. 

Steam-digging Machine.— M. Wronski, a celebrated mathematician at Paris, 
has, according to the Paris papers, discovered a new system of applying steam 
to carriages, digging machines, hoes, picks, ploughs, &c.; so superior to any 
thing hitherto known, that a French company has bought his patent for four 
millions of francs. (Le Temps.) 


HOLLAND AND THE NETHERLANDS. 


Agricultural and Botanical Society of Ghent. — The fiftieth exhibition of this 
Society will take place March 15th next. It is to be celebrated as a jubilee, 
and prizes are offered to strangers, as well as to members of the Society. 
Among the prizes are, a gold medal for the best collection of 20 or more plants 
in flower, and silver medals for the best collections of camellias and of amaryllis. 
Mr. Maddison of Wondelyem, about two miles from Ghent, who sent us a 
printed prospectus containing the above and a variety of other information, 
says: —“ As many of the prizes are for strangers, it may, perhaps, be worth 
your while to publish the prospectus in your Magazine for February next. 
Should you or any of your friends feel inclined to visit Ghent during our 
jubilee, I should feel happy in being of service to them. I am known to 
Mr. William Dennis of the King’s Road, to Mr. Gawie, who is now with 
Mr. Lowe at Clapton, and also to Mr. Knight of the King’s Road, Chelsea. 
I cultivate principally pelargoniums and georginas; but any plants for the 
open ground, such as alstroemerias, and such as recommend themselves by their 
beauty, are what I particularly seek after. Independent of my collection of 
English pelargoniums, I cultivate about 100 foreign ones, which I have re- 
ceived from Vienna and Paris; and, after the example of gentlemen in this 
country, I am always happy to offer them in exchange for other plants, either 
to gardeners or amateurs. Since residing in this country I have built a new 
green-house, with a span roof; and, by a very simple contrivance, I can raise 
the stand within a few inches of the glass. Were my green-house of iron, 
instead of wood, and warmed by hot water, instead of by fires, I should con- 
sider it as nearly, if not quite, the very best that could be made. Iam, Sir, 
yours, &c. —John Maddison. Wondelyem, near Ghent, Dec. 10. 1833. 


CAPE OF GOOD HOPE. 


The Government Garden is undergoing various improvements, which, when 
completed, I shall send you some account of. In general, it may be observed, 
that a new stimulus to gardening and agricultural improvements has been 
given throughout the colony since the present governor came into office. 
Something also must be attributed to the increasing prosperity of Sydney and 
Van Diemen’s Land, which are our principal foreign markets for cattle, sheep, 
and various descriptions of agricultural produce. (dwvtract from a private 
Letter to D. B., dated Cape Town, Sept.18. 1833.) 

E 4 


56 Domestic Notices : — 


Encyclopedia of Cottage, Farm, and Villa Architecture.— Sir, 1 have perused 
your Encyc. of Cottage Arch. with great pleasure. It is a book which has 
long been wanted. What would I have given for such a book when I first 
started in life: even now, at the eleventh hour, I am delighted with it. I 
regret that I was not in England at the time your work was in progress. If I 
had, I should have sent you one or two designs for small cottages, which I 
have been in the habit of thinking nearly perfect in their kind. One of them 
was very similar in its general plan to Sir Robert Taylor’s beautiful villa at 
Richmond, only on a smaller scale. [We shall feel much obliged to Colonel 
Thomson for plans and elevations of small cottages such as he mentions, 
and to any of our readers, to whom an opportunity offers, for ground plans 
and elevations of Sir Robert Taylor’s villa: both would be exceedingly suit- 
able for our Architectural Magazine. Colonel Thomson next describes an im- 
proved roasting-oven, which will form an article in the first number of our 
Architectural Magazine ; and one which, we think, will be of very great value to 
the public. He then concludes his letter with the following paragraph: —] 

If you should deem these details useful to vour numerous readers, you are 
at liberty to insert them in any future edition of your work; for there will no 
doubt be many. [The work is stereotyped; and, consequently, the number 
of impressions which may be taken being unlimited, no new edition is required. 
All corrections, additions, and improvements to the work will be given in our 
Architectural Magazine, which is intended to serve as a perpetual supplement 
to the Encyclopedia of Architecture, in the same manner as the Gardener’s 
Magazine is a perpetual supplement to the Encyclopedia of Gardening, E. of 
Plants, &c.| My object [continues Col. Thomson] is general utility; and I 
know of no subject which will contribute so largely to the comfort and happi- 
ness of Englishmen all over the world, as a practical improvement in this 
branch of domestic economy, which may have the effect of overcoming in 
some degree that rooted prejudice in favour of long open kitchen ranges, 
which roast the poor cook as well as the meat, and consume as much coals in 
one day as would do the work of ten properly constructed furnaces. Wishing 
you every success in your useful career, I am, Sir, yours, &c.— Robert 
Thomson, Lieut.-Col. Royal Engineers. Cape Town, Oct. 30. 1833. 


AUSTRALIA. 


Swan River. — The vines in the botanic garden are flourishing Juxuriantly ; 
and the rapid progress the vine has made in the colony, wherever properly at- 
tended to, has established beyond a doubt that both the soil and climate are 
admirably adapted to its cultivation. We have not the slightest doubt that a 
peculiarly rich flavour would be imparted to the grape; if we may judge from 
the exquisite perfection of other fruits. It is much to be regretted that 
Waters, one of the most successful of the market-gardeners of Perth, has 
had his premises consumed by fire. He was in the habit of furnishing a 
regular supply to the Perth market. (Morning Chronicle, Dec. 27. 1833.) 

Van Diemen’s Land.— 1 send you a box of seeds, and should be glad to 
have some seeds or plants from you in exchange, &c.— William Davidson. 
Government Garden, Hobart Town, Nov. 2. 1833. 

We have sent Mr. Davidson’s letter with an order to get the box of seeds, 
to Mr. Lowe of Clapton, who, having a collector at Sydney, will be best able 
to ascertain what articles will be most suitable for Mr. Davidson, from whom 
we should be glad to receive an account of the state of gardening and agricul- 
ture, &c., in the colony. — Cond. ° 


“Art. III. . Domestic Notices. 
ENGLAND. 


THE Floricultural Impostor at Reading. (1X. 491.) —-Sir, The following facts 
concerning this person may, perhaps, be of service to brother florists and nur- 


Lingland. ic 57 


serymen ; — During last summer, a man of middle stature, rather stout, and 
shabbily dressed, called on me, and represented himself as a Mr. Archer of Shef- 
field, florist, soliciting orders. The man, by his general conversation, his apparent 
knowledge of floriculture generally, and his detail of several transactions of 
gentlemen, friends of mine, at Norwich (some of which I knew to be correct, 
such as certain flower-roots, &c., having been sent from Sheffield to these 
individuals, whose names he mentioned), succeeded in counteracting, in some 
degree, the unfavourable impression I had at first formed of him, from his shabby 
appearance ; for which, by the by, he accounted by the plausible excuse of 
continued travelling, and having to visit so many customers in ordinary cir- 
cumstances of life, who, he said, would be afraid of giving him orders were he 
dressed as a gentleman. I showed him over my nursery; and he particularly 
noticed the dwarfness of some of the georginas, of which he expressed great 
admiration. He examined my pinks and carnations, and continually referred 
to a catalogue which he had with him, that showed the number of prizes each 
flower had obtained in the year; and which, he said, he published annually : 
it appeared to be edited by a Mr. Archer. I gave him an order for some tulips, 
pinks, and carnations; upon condition, however, that [ was to flower them 
before I paid for them. He also showed me some tubers of dwarf georginas, 
of, as he said, very valuable varieties, worth two guineas each, brought for the 
Duke of Marlborough; but, the duke aot paying his last bill, he refused to 
leave them: but said, that, as the season for planting them was wearing away, 
he would not, as he wished to encourage all amateur florists, object to let 
me have them for a few shillings. So I purchased them, after consulting 
with a friend, who was present, as to whether the man was or was not an 
impostor. But the smallness of the sum to be risked induced me not to give 
a hint of my suspicion; for, although the man certainly played his game well, 
and possessed a very smooth tongue, there was, nevertheless, a something 
about him which created a doubt. The tubers were very neatly packed and 
labelled, and certainly had the appearance of being something choice. He 
also had tulip roots, labelled, &c., in the same style; but these, he said, were 
for a gentleman who had ordered them, and, therefore, not for sale. On 
going to the nursery the next morning, one of my foremen found eight or ten 
of the dwarf georginas (which, when growing the day before, the impostor 
had so much admired) with their tops cut from the roots, stuck into the 
ground, and the roots gone. Suspicion, of course, immediately attached to 
this fellow; and it was strengthened by my calling, a day or two afterwards, 
on a florist a few miles from Reading; and who questioned me respecting 
him, as he said that the man had called on him with some tulip bulbs and 
tubers of georginas, with the same tale respecting the duke as he had told 
me; and also stated that I had given him a 100/. order, &c., endeavouring, at 
the same time, to prevail on this person to purchase. He, not being a grower 
of tulips, declined doing this; and thought that there was something wrong 
with the tubers of georginas, as they appeared to him to have been in a grow- 
ing state, and fresh taken out of the ground. He, nevertheless, gave him an 
order for some pinks and heartseases, which were to be sent in my parcel, 
This person keeps an inn; and the fellow, not having yet succeeded in his 
plans, proposed their going in and having dinner, &c., for which he would pay. 
Dinner was provided and eaten; and, afterwards, something as a “ wetter” 
was introduced. In the course of the chat which followed, the fellow 
managed, under some pretence, to leave the room; and, I need scarcely add, 
did not return, but left the landlord to settle the reckoning. He entered his 
orders in a book, in which there appeared many names, familiar to me, of per- 
sons in this neighbourhood, who had, apparently, given him large orders. He 
made free use of your name, and of the names of several other gentlemen who 
had, he pretended, called at his nursery, &c. —Myles Priest. Reading Nursery, 
Dec. 12. 1833. 
The Floricultural Impostor at Hereford. — This worthy of the alias family 
honoured a most respectable inn in this city, a short time ago, with his favours 


58 Domestic Notices :— 


for several days; sallying forth amongst the brethren of the tulip as well as of 
the turnip tribe ; soliciting orders, and exhibiting a nursery catalogue, together 
with a card on which appeared the words, “‘ Joseph Ashworth, Florist, Roch- 
dale, Lancashire ;”’ and also a collection of flower-roots, in a violet-coloured 
bag, some of which he disposed of in this neighbourhood: though surely those 
were not a portion of what cost him five shillings per peck, as his price for 
one tulip, he stated, was fifty pounds. However, No. 43. of this Magazine 

LX. 230.) awakened my suspicions, which I speedily laid before ‘ mine host” 
OMe Wild) ; who, on inspecting his customer’s bed-room, found he was gone. 
The landlord, with commendable alacrity, got a constable, and both rode off 
in the direction of Ledbury (16 miles hence); and, although two hours after 
the impostor at starting, came up with him just as he had commenced dis- 
pensing his favours at the Feathers Inn, in that town. Mr. Wild demanded 
and received his bill, which amounted to several pounds; and, moreover, as 
his Rosinante was knocked up, he required the amount of phaeton-convey- 
ance great part of the way back to this city ; which being paid likewise, Mr. 
Green, alias Gern, alias Ashworth, was rather unceremoniously excluded from 
the snug shelter of the Plume of Feathers. I should have mentioned that it 
was only the presence of the constable with Mr. Wild that enabled him to 
succeed so well, as this empowered him to say, “ Pay me my bill, or you shall 
return with us to Hereford in custody.” Many circumstances respecting the 
affair are quite amusing; but it would take up too much room to relate them. 
The fellow’s memory is astonishing, as I have been told by several persons in 
this neighbourhood: gardeners who had lived in different situations, where 
he had called, years ago, he recoilected well, though they had scarcely spoken 
to him before. Putting his barefaced lies out of the question, I never heard 
of so finished a character, or one so likely to succeed in his attempts to 
cheat. Iam, Sir, yours, &c.— Wm. Godsall. Hereford, Jan. 1. 1834. 

The Floricultural Impostor at Hull.— A person, calling himself Richard 
Evans, nurseryman and florist, of Edgbaston, near Birmingham, was in Hull 
last week, professing to sell the bulbs of tulips and ranunculuses of a superior 
description, with particular names attached to them. His custom was, to 
receive money for all roots under five shillings, and to give credit for those 
above, till after blooming. He succeeded in dealing with several of our 
florists ; and, from one, obtained sixty tulips in exchange for fourteen of his 
own boasted superior ones. He has also taken orders for georginas ; amongst 
others, from the curator of the botanic garden, which he visited. He appears 
to have a thorough knowledge of flowers, and knows the name of almost 
every florist in the kingdom. He has been at Sheffield, York, &c. He left 
Hull for Beverley on the morning of yesterday week, but forgot to pay for his 
lodgings. On Saturday he departed from Beverley, leaving a bill of 11s. 8d. 
unliquidated at the Packhorse. It is supposed that he has gone north through 
Scarborough and Whitby, where he knew there were florists’ societies. He 
had a quantity of printed cards with him; and generously promised to leave 
three sovereigns as premiums for the Hull florists’ shows. (Weekly Dispatch, 
Dec. 30. 1833.) 

Vegetation under Glasses, without Change of Air. — Dr. Aiken, the secretary 
to the Society of Arts, read aletter addressed by Mr. N. B.Ward to Mr. R.W. 
Solly, in which the former states that, nearly four years ago, he observed, on 
the surface of some moist mould in a large bottle loosely covered with a lid, 
in which he had buried the chrysalis of a Sphina, some minute specks of 
vegetation. A plant of Poa annua and one of Aspidium had made their 
appearance. Curious to observe the growth of plants in such a confined 
situation, he placed the bottle outside one of his windows, with a northern 
aspect, where they remained more than three years; during which time the 
lid was never removed, nor was any water given to them in that period. The 
plants grew very well: the Poa annua flowered the second year, but did not 
perfect any seeds; and the Aspidium produced four or five new fronds every 
year. They ultimately perished, in consequence of the admission of rain, 


Lingland. 59 


which rotted them. The experiment has been repeated on more than sixty 
species of ferns, and with uniform success. The bottom of a box being pre- 
viously covered with broken pieces of brick, tile, &c., the ferns: are planted in 
a compound of vegetable mould, sand, and Sphagnum palistre Z.; they are 
then watered most copiously, and the superfluous water allowed to drain off, 
for several hours, by means of a hole in the bottom of the box. A plug is 
then put in tight, the box covered with a glazed lid, and no farther care is 
required than that of placing the box in the light. In this state, ferns will 
grow for years without any fresh water. A box placed on one of the Society’s 
tables, and which attracted great attention, contained, among others, the fol- 
lowing species : —Asplénium lanceolatum, Asplénium Adiantum nigrum, Adidn- 
tum pedatum, Adiantum pendulinum, Bléchnum boreile, Cyathéa fragilis, 
&c.; with four or five species of mosses growing in the same box, planted in the 
beginning of last May. Mr. Ward adds, that many other plants which delight 
in humid situations, and which he had previously attempted, in vain, to grow 
in town, succeed equally well under this plan of treatment; such as the 
double-flowered Anemone nemorésa, Listera nidus avis? &c.; and he feels 
well convinced that the deteriorating influence of town air depends more upon 
mechanical than upon chemical causes. (Lit. Gaz. p.793., Dec. 14. 1833.) We 
saw some of the above-mentioned glasses and plants at the November Meet- 
ing of the Linnean Society. — Cond. 

The Establishment of a Botanical and Horticultural Garden at Sheffield (1X. 
464. 700., X. 93.) will, we are informed on good authority, be shortly effected. 
The time for choosing a curator will, we believe, when determined on, be 
advertised. As the performance of the objects of any public body is depend- 
ent on its officers, and as, in the case of a botanic garden, a curator is the 
most important of all the officers employed, we trust we may be excused 
submitting a word in relation to the choice of one. We conceive that the 
candidates should be rigidly examined as to their professional qualifications ; 
and that but little attention should be paid to any testimonials, farther than 
they relate to moral character. This last quality is of great consequence in 
a public servant; and, as its validity is dependent on length of practice, 
attestations of its fixedness may be well: but as, in the case of professional 
qualification, no evidences, no testimonials, would be equal to those which 
a competent examiner would elicit from the candidates themselves, we think 
it would be the duty of every committee, engaged in the choice of a profes- 
sional officer, to institute, either in one or more of their own body, or in the 
person of a professor of established reputation, hired for the occasion, the 
examination suggested. This would completely set aside the chance of all 
undue advantage, which local candidates must, we think, have over the more 
distant ones. A curator of the present day should, we need not remark, be 
a proficient in every department of practical botany; and familiar with the 
principles of those sciences which are more immediately connected with the 
art of gardening. — J. D. 

Brugmansia suaveolens. —Sir, A magnificent plant of Brugmansia suaveolens 
flowered this year in the gardens of Roger Taylor, Esq., of Firsthwaite, near 
the Lake of Windermere. It was, when I saw it (Oct. 20.), 9 ft. in height, 
and presented 43 fully expanded flowers; the milky-white trumpets of which 
were each 1 ft. long (imcluding the peduncle) and 6 in. in diameter at the 
upper part ; emitting, at “ dewy eve,” a delicious fragrance. The diameter of 
the stem, at the ground, was 14in.; and its height to the first branch, 4 ft. 
The leaves upon this part were 2 ft. long, inclusive of the petiole, and 12 in. 
broad: but what is remarkable is, that all the leaves above the fork were 
decurrent on one side. The plant was raised from a cutting this spring ; and, 
on the 4th of May, was 18in. high. About the latter end of July, the flower- 
‘buds appeared, the plant being then about 7 ft. in height. Early in October, 
the flowers began to expand: the plant was now in full beauty, and continued 
so for nearly a month.— 7. A. B. Easthwaite Lodge, Lancashire, Dec. 24. 
1833. 


60 Domestic Notices :— 


Shrubs and Flowers in bloom on the 15th of Nov., 1833, at Hasthwaite 
Lodge, Lancashire. — Fichsia gracilis, which I find to be perfectly hardy ; the 
stem not killed down to the ground, but pushing out branches, in spring, to 
within a few inches of its top. One of these plants reached the height of 6 ft. 
this year, and was literally covered with bloom. The Warratah camellia also 
has resisted the frosts of the last four winters, without other protection than 
having the ground mulched about its roots. Irish heath, Coliitea arboréscens, 
Ké4lmia serotina, Erica Tétralix and ciliaris, 4’rbutus U‘nedo, Vinca major, 
and Rhododéndron pénticum. 

Dec. 24. There is now a Rhododéndron pénticum, with flowers upon it, 
in a sheltered situation; Vibarnum Jinus; Yécca filamentosa, a few flowers 
left out of 150, the stem was 5ft. high; Hydrangea horténsis, rose-coloured 
and blue; Polygala Chamebixus, J‘lex virginica, Spartium scoparium L. 
(C¥§tisus scoparius Lk.), Cobce‘a scandens (Caprifolium japonicum and sem- 
pervirens), Calampelis scabra, Vib(rnum Tinus hirta, Hypéricum Androsz‘- 
mum, Verbéna chameedrifolia, Cydonia japonica, Daphne aitaica, double sweet- 
briar, yellow Chinese rose, dark red Bengal rose, and about six or eight other 
varieties of Chinese roses; several varieties of Pelargonium; Rosa Champ- 
neydza, with trusses of fifty and sixty flowers in each; a Noisette grandi- 
flora (standard) ; a moss and some common roses, which were transplanted 
late in spring; A‘nthemis nobilis fl. pl., chrysanthemums, Geum coccineum, 
Lupinus polyphylius, Gilia capitata, nasturtiums, Lopézia coronata and race- 
mosa, Athanasia 4nnua, Gfnothera Lindleyanza, and several others; JdZimulus 
lateus, Eschschéltzia califérnica (rises from self-sown seeds), Ammobium 
alatum (the same), Biscutélla erigerifolia, Senécio élegans fl. pl., Campanula 
Trachélium, F'umiria glaica; Lychnis, two or three varieties; Papaver, three 
or four varieties; Geranium Wallichianwm, Convoélvulus minor, Galinsogea- 
trilobata, Lobelia falgens, Agapanthus umbellatus, J/adia élegans; geor- 
ginas, many varieties; nigellas; lupines, many varieties; cyanus, delphinium; 
German stocks and asters, several varieties; Xeranthemum 4nnuum, claries, 
wallflowers, Russian and other violets, hollyhocks, malvas, A’rabis alpina ; 
snapdragons, including a very handsome variety from New Holland; red 
candytuit, yellow hawkweed, a few pinks, several varieties of aster, &c. 

This list would have been much more extended but for some severely 
frosty nights early in October ; and the terrific gales of wind, and a deluge of 
rain, which we have lately experienced; which have torn up or beaten down 
a great number of my best flowers. — 7. 4. B. Esthwaite Lodge, Lancashire, . 
Dec. 24. 1833. 

Benthamia fragifera. — By referring to our Floricultural Notices, p.69., it 
will be found that specimens of the flowers and fruit of this eminently beautiful 
hardy evergreen shrub have been sent us from Cornwall. The general observer 
may form an idea of it by imagining Coraus florida covered with the flowers 
of Stuartia Malachodéndron, and the fruit of A’rbutus U‘nedo but rather larger, 
We want words to express our admiration of this shrub, and the interest we 
feel in the associations which are connected with it. It is named in compli- 
ment to George Bentham, Esq., the secretary to the Horticultural Society, 
a distinguished botanist ; but we consider it as commemorating also the name 
of that gentleman’s uncle, the greatest benefactor to mankind, in our opinion, 
that has lived since the commencement of the Christian era. We could not 
have desired a finer plant to perpetuate such a name. The Rey. W. Fox, in 
his admirable sermons on Christian Morality, says, “ the late Jeremy Bentham 
was the ablest expositor of what was really Christian morality, the true law of 
the Lord as to social duty, that our country or the world has yet produced. 
The whole of his writings are proofs and illustrations of the position, that we 
shall find our own greatest happiness in the promotion of the greatest happiness 
of others.” (p.58.) Benthamea fragifera, beautiful as it is, is so easy of pro- 
pagation, that it will soon be in every cottage garden. — Cond. 

O’valis crenata. — We have received a number of communications, laudatory 
of this plant, as a substitute for, or an auxiliary to, the potato; as a tart 


Scotland. 61 


plant ; as an ingredient in salads ; and even as an herbage plant for cattle: but 
having (IX. 78. 232. and 618.) afforded our correspondents an opportunity of » 
saying enough to direct the attention of the public to it, so as to induce them 
to give it a fair trial, we think we haye done enough for the present. In the 
course of our late tour we saw the O’xalis crenata in many gardens, growing 
luxuriantly to stems and foliage, and producing few tubers, in very rich soils; 
and growing less luxuriantly, but still without producing many tubers, in dry 
sandy soils. The truth is, the tubers are not produced till a certain reduction 
i the temperature of the atmosphere checks the elongation of the under- 
ground stolones ; which, when so checked, accumulate their sap in the form of 
tuberosities at their extremities : which tuberosities are, consequently, nothing 
more than stunted stolones or underground shoots. The demand for the plant 
has proved profitable to many nurserymen (IX. 4'70.); one of whom informed 
us that he had an order for a bushel of tubers. — Cond. 

Grafting Pears on the Exiremities of the Shoots of old Pear Trees trained on 
Walls, Mr. Saul informs us, is practised with so much success by an eminent 
clergyman in the neighbourhood of Lancaster, that the scions form blossom 
buds and spurs the same year that the graft is put on, and produce fruit the 
year following. The scions are inserted either on the points of the shoots, or 
the shoots are shortened back, according to the room there may be for the 
shoots produced by the scion; these shoots are either trained straight forward, 
or wholly, or in part, turned back towards the bole of the tree. More than 
this an intelligent gardener does not require to be told. — Cond. 

Maclira aurantiaca. — A fine specimen of this fruit has been sent us by 
Dr. Mease, from Mrs.M‘Mahon’s garden near Philadelphia, as before. (VI.103. 
fig. 22.) It is about the size of a large orange, and though evidently gathered 
before it was fully ripe, yet the seeds, which may be compared to those of the 
common flax, only three times larger, are plump, and appear as if they would 
grow. We have distributed them, along with those which were sent us of 
Benthamia. — Cond. 

Lhe Sarracen Pear, a specimen of which has lately been sent to Mr. 
Saul from Mr. Saunders, nurseryman in Jersey, and which is not described in 
either the Horticultural Society’s Catalogue, or in Lindley’s Guide, is thus 
characterised :—It is oblong, about 43 in. by 4in. in diameter; the skin on the 
shaded side is at first green, but becomes pale yellow at maturity. The side 
next the sun is tinged with brownish red, dotted with grey: the flesh is almost 
melting, of a sweet, rich, and partially perfumed flavour; the seeds are long, 
pointed, not well matured, and of a black hue. This fruit is excellent, and will 
keep from one year to another. There are few pears which so highly merit 
cultivation as this variety. The specimen sent weighed 15 oz.— WM. Saul. 
Lancaster, Dec. 6. 1833. 

Uvedale’s St. Germain Pear. — A fine specimen of this pear has been sent 
us by Dr. Hamilton of Plymouth : its dimensions are, “ 133 in. for the trans- 
verse, and 16§ in. for the longitudinal diameter ; and its weight is 1 lb. 114 oz. 
The tree from which these pears were gathered has, in former years, produced 
fruit of a considerably larger size, and in much greater abundance, than in the 
present season, and five years since a pear was gathered from it which 
weighed above 23 lbs. — William Hamilton. 15. Oxford Place, Plymouth, 
Nov. 14. 1833.” 


SCOTLAND. 


Modes of heating by Hot Water.— Mr. M‘Nab, the excellent curator of the 
Edinburgh Botanic Garden, was on a tour in England in the month of Decem- 
ber, with a view to ascertain, from ocular inspection, the best mode of heating 
by hot water. We had the pleasure of seeing him a few days before he left 
London, and, we believe, he considers, with us, that the best plan is Keyley’s, 
provided manufacturers could be found to make joints as completely water- 
tight as Kewley does, and to repair such pipes when they go wrong. The 
next best plan he also agrees with us in considering to be the level system, of 


62 Domestic Notices : — Ireland. 


which the most extensive manufacturers in the kingdom, we believe, are Messrs. 
Cottam and Hallen, of Winsley Street, Oxford Street. — Cond. 

Horticultural Garden at Edinburgh. — A certain sum is to be given annually 
by government, under certain conditions, to improve this garden. (Scotsman, 
Dec. 21. 1833.) 

Botanic Garden at Edinburgh. — The sum of 8000/. is expected to be granted 
by Parliament, next session, for the completion of the Edinburgh Botanic 
Garden. (Scotsman, Dec. 21. 1833.) 

Agricultural Museum. — Professor Low, the scientific teacher of agriculture 
in the University of Edinburgh, has long been engaged in forming, at his own 
private expense, an agricultural museum; and we are most happy to learn, 
from the Scotch newspapers, that government has lent pecuniary aid to so 
useful an undertaking. Whether any exhibition of the kind instituted by 
Messrs. Drummond at Stirling, and followed by Mr. Lawson of Edinburgh, 
and Messrs. Dickson and Turnbull of Perth, is to be combined with this 
museum, we have not learned; but we are most happy to see the government 
of the country taking an interest in such national objects. We hope the time 
is not far distant when a sum will be advanced to complete the Thames tunnel, 
and another to establish the Horticultural Society’s garden at Chiswick on a 
permanent footing. If this is not,done by government, we hope that, when 
the metropolis and its environs are put under one system of self-government, 
they will have a metropolitan garden, either at Chiswick or elsewhere, worthy 
of the first city in the world, and open to all its citizens. — Cond. 

In the Western Counties, the damage done to plantations from the violent 
gales of December exceeds anything of the like nature which has occurred 
during the last 20 years. Every landed proprietor complains of serious loss 
from this cause, and it seems not improbable that home timber will fall in 
price from the extraordinary quantity of it thrown on the market. At Castle 
Kennedy, near Stranraer, the residence at one time of the great Lord Stair, 
and where the trees were planted in sections, squadrons, and lines, after 
the order of some of his battles, the wind has demolished what the axe- 
man had been long taught to spare; and this is merely a specimen of what 
has taken place at least all over this part of Scotland. (Dumfries Courier.) 


IRELAND. 


Gardening and Agricultural Improvements appear to have received a new 
stimulus in several of the Irish counties. We arrive at this conclusion from 
the accounts of newly formed societies, and superior productions, which we 
see in the Irish country papers sent to us; and also from the success which 
has attended the publication of an Irish Farmer and Gardeners Magazine. 
We have also been informed, both by a Dublin bookseller and by some 
of our publishers in London, that a great number of our Encyclopedia of 
Cottage, Farm, and Villa Architecture have sold in Ireland. Our particular 
friend James M‘Lean, who has lately travelled through the country for com- 
mercial purposes, assures us that he has seen cottages erected between 
Belfast and Newry on platforms in our manner; but, Mr. M‘Lean being no 
architect, this information must be taken with due allowance. — Cond. 

_ Cuscuta nepalénsis and Passiflora edulis in Ireland.—Sir, Until the last week 
of last month, I had a large plant of Cuscuta népalensis in full flower upon 
an olive planted against a south wall: it was a beautiful object, and most fra- 
grant, before it was killed into its roots, which it was by the fall of the 
thermometer to 25°. It had previously stood, with but little injury, two 
nights of frost at 29°. From the depth the roots of Cuscuta penetrate into 
woody plants, and its great vitality (which I have found from the difficulty of 
eradicating it from some plants it had accidentally established itself upon), I 
anticipate that it will retain its vitality over the winter, and will next year 
“ string its pearls again.” Close to it, on the same wall, stands uninjured a 
Passiflora edulis, with 12 fruits upon it nearly ripe, and some flowers expanded. 
It has been only protected at night by a mat.— Robert Mallet. Capel Street, 
Dublin, Dec. 1832. : 


Floriculiural and Botanical Notices. 63. 


Arr. 1V. Floriculiural and Botanical Notices of new Plants, and of 
old Plants of Interest, supplementary to the latest Editions of the 
“ Encyclopedia of Plants,” and of the “ Hortus Britannicus.” 


Curtis's Botanical Magazine ; each monthly Number containing eight plates ; 
3s. 6d. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Hooker, King’s Professor of 
Botany in the University of Glasgow. 

Eidwards’s Botanical Register ; each monthly Number containing eight plates ; 
4s. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Lindley, F.R.S.; Professor of Botany 
in the London University. 

Sweet's British Flower-Garden; each monthly Number containing four plates ; 
3s. coloured, 2s. 3d. plain. Edited by David Don, Esq., Librarian to the 
Linnean Society. 

Loddiges’s Botanical Cabinet; each monthly Number containing ten plates; 
5s. coloured, 2s. 6d. partly coloured. Edited by Messrs. Loddiges. 


Some Facts and Considerations which have a general Relation to Floriculture. 

Mr. Telfar is no more. — Ever since the death of his accomplished lady, 
which took place the preceding year, our valued friend, as he himself had 
informed us, seemed to have lost every earthly tie; and, after a violent illness 
of only five days, he breathed his last on July 14. 1833. In his death, science 
has to deplore the loss of one of her most ardent votaries, and society one of 
the best of men. (Dr. Hooker, in Bot. Mag., Dec. 1833, t. 3286.) - 

The Publication of Loddiges’s Botanical Cabinet was terminated on Dec. 2. 
1833. — “ Having been enabled to complete our twentieth volume, and thus 
to place 2000 plants before the public, our labours are closed ; the precarious 
state of our draughtsman’s health not permitting him to go on any farther. 
We cannot take leave of our kind friends without expressing our sincere 
gratitude for the encouragement with which they have favoured us, in our 
humble attempts to illustrate a small portion of a most. attractive branch of 
natural history.” (Botanical Cabinet, Dec. 2. 1833, at the close of the text 
appended to t. 2000.) 

Mr, Drummond.— “ It is very much through the instrumentality of Dr. 
Graham that Mr. Drummond has been enabled to accomplish his long and 
successful journeys in the southern states of North America; where, amidst 
many dangers, and notwithstanding the severest attacks of fever and cholera, 
he has amassed a collection of upwards of one thousand species of plants. 
The Nuttallia Papaver, and the little-known Sarracénia psittacina, are among 
the most interesting that have been sent home in a living state. From Texas 
and New Mexico it is expected that his collections will be still more valuable.” 
(Dr. Hooker, in Bot. Mag., Dec. 1833, t. 3287.) 

Mr. Hitchen’s celebrated Collection of succulent Plants, of the more striking 
of which we have given a long list in IX. 114., has been purchased by Mr. 
Frederick Mackie of the Norwich Nursery. This gentleman has printed a 
list of the duplicates which he offers for sale; but we are happy to learn from 
him that it is his purpose “ to keep the collection as complete as possible, 
and, to add to it as opportunity may offer.” 

Aquatie Plants are generally very beautiful, either in their flowers or their 
foliage; or remarkable for the singular manner in which they have been con- 
structed, to enable them to pass their lives amidst the water. Unless provided 
with floating apparatus, the small quantity of air contained in their leaves 
would be insufficient to support them on the surface of the water; and they 
would sink and drown, like animals themselves. But, to prevent this occur- 
rence, we always find some curious and beautiful contrivance: such as a 
distention of the leafstalk, till it assumes a swollen and gouty aspect [in 
the genera Pontedéria, Trapa, Utricularia] ; or the construction of myriads of 
air-chambers in the solid stem itself [Z'ypha, Sparganium, Nymphee‘a, Sagit- 
taria]; or the roots distended into vegetable swimming bladders [Jussieua ]; 


64 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


or, as is the case with Limnécharis Humbéldti, some special alteration of 
other parts. In this plant, the midrib of the leaf is so enlarged and filled 
with air, as to render it impossible for the leaf to sink, although loaded with 
thrice the weight it has to carry: not, however, all the midrib, but only the 
under side of it, by which means [aided by the marginal portions of the 
expansion of the leaf] any upsetting of the leaf, or application of the breathing 
-side (which is the upper) to the surface of the water, by which it would be 
smothered, is effectually prevented. (Dr. Lindley, in the Botanical Register 
for Jan. 1834; in the description of the beautiful stove aquatic plant Limn6- 
charis Humbéldti, which we have noticed in IX. 488.) 


PoLYPETALOUS DicoTyLEDONOUS PLANTS. 


III. Ranunculacee. 


1600. ACONI‘TUM. 
14205a Stoerckid@num B.C. Stoerck’s yY A or4au B Austria 1824, D co Bot. cab. 1991 
Whether this be the 4. Stoerckidnmwm Rchb., we have not the means to ascertain ; nor whether it 
be A. paniculatum var. Storkidnwm of M. Seringe in Dec. Prod. i. 60. 


A very showy species (Bot. Cab., Dec.). Baron Stoerck was the first to 
make successful application of the extract of aconite to the alleviation of 
chronic rheumatism, inveterate gout, old tumours, &c. : 

XI. Capparidee. 

1904. CLEO‘ME. 
16719 dendréides Schult. tree-like #.t_Jor5... P Brazil 1828. Ss.l Bot. mag. 3206 

By the synonymes exhibited in the Bot. M/ag., this is the same as C. arborea 
of Hort. Brit. No. 16719.; and, if so, it was introduced to Britain in 1817, 
and flowers in “ jn.jl.’ The figure in the Bof. Mag. is from a plant which 
flowered in a garden in Madeira. “‘ Though the colour of the flowers is rather 
singular than brilliant, this is a very striking plant, with its curious candela- 
brum-like flower-spike and handsome foliage.’ (Bot. Mag., Jan.) 

XXIV. Malvacee. 

2005. NUTT A/LLIA. 

Papaver Grah. Poppy-flwd. XY A or 3 au R.P Louisiana 1833. Sp. Bot. mag, 3287 

Seeds of this species were sent, in the spring of 1833, from Louisiana, by 
Mr. Drummond; “ these have been distributed to different gardens, and have 
probably produced flowering plants in several collections.” Farther on, it is 
stated that plants of it have flowered in the botanic garden of Glasgow ; that 
of Edinburgh; Cunningham’s nursery, Comely Bank ; the garden of Mr. Neill, 
and that of David Falconar, Esq., of Carlowrie. A “ highly ornamental” 
species: “ it appears to be quite hardy.” Stems numerous from the crown 
of the root, each of which bears several flowers ; and these are severally pro- 
duced on long axillary peduncles. ‘‘ Corolla of five petals, campanulate, 
large [according to the picture, more than 2in, across], red purple.’ (Bot. 
Mag., Dec.) 

XLVI. Cactee. 

1474. OPU'’NTIA. 3 
$12598 brasiliénsis Wd. Brazilian % 7] cu 25 jl.au Y Brazil 1816. Cs1 Bot. mag. 3293 

The figure published is from a specimen produced in a Madeira garden. 
“ O, brasiliénsis, though of comparatively recent introduction to Madeira, now 
occurs in several gardens at Funchal, without the slightest care or attention.” 
It flowers chiefly in May or June, and bears the greatest proportion of fruit 
in August or September; but it both flowers and fruits more or less through- 
out the year. ‘* It rises with a perfectly straight, erect, slender, but firm and 
stiff, round stem, to a height of from 10ft. to 25 ft., and even 30 ft.; very 
gradually tapering to a point, from a diameter, at the base, of from 2 in. to 
6in.; and is furnished all the way up with short, mostly horizontal or declin- 
ing branches, spreading round on all sides, not more than a yard in any part 
from the main stem, and gradually becoming shorter upwards; often alto- 
gether ceasing near the summit. The whole plant resembles a straight taper 
pole, artificially dressed up with branches.” The ultimate points are obovate, 
and resemble leaves in appearance and thickness; and, from the prominent 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 65 


parts of their edges, flowers are produced all over the plant. They are of a 
bright lemon colour, 13 in. in diameter. The stamens evince, when touched, 
a slight irritability. Fruit subglobose, from 1 in. to 14in. in diameter; of a 
delicate transparent yellow; smooth, except being studded with tufts of 
chestnut-coloured bristles. The flesh of the fruit is of a yellowish white 
colour, juicy, with a fine acid, somewhat resembling an indifferent, hard- 
fleshed, or unripe plum; with a smell and slight flavour like those of the 
leaf-stalks of garden rhubarb.” (Bot. Mag., Jan.) 
LXV. Thymele‘e. 
87. PIMELE’A. [Bot, mag. 3288 
29126a graciliflbra Hook. slender-calyxed ## \_| or 3 my.jn W King George’s Sound 1830? Cp.l 
“ May be easily mistaken for P. sylvéstris” (IX. 364.) ; but comparison 
will prove it quite distinct. ‘“ It is extremely pretty, and flowers freely in the 
green-house in common peat soil; and retains its snowy blossoms, which are 
disposed in rather lax heads, for a considerable length of time. It was raised 
from seeds sent by Mr. Baxter:” we suppose, to the Glasgow Botanic Gar- 
den ; but this is not stated, nor whence the drawing had been derived. (Bot. 
Mag., Dec. 1833.) 
LXXVII. Leguminose. 


1968. ANTHY’LLIS. 
17625a Webbiana Penny Webb’s Y A or 2 my jl Pa.Ro Teneriffe 1829. Ss.1 Bot. mag. 3284 


Communicated to the Botanical Magazine by Mr. Cameron, of the Botanic 
Garden, Birmingham. It was introduced by Philip Barker Webb. “ It is 
an extremely delicate and pretty species.” Its principal charms are its heads 
of rose-coloured flowers, pretty pinnate leaves, and the white silky pubes- 
cence which invests the whole of its herbage. “ It is hardy, and should be 
cultivated on a dry soil.” (Bot. Mag., Dec.) 


1980. ADE/SMIA. : 

uspallaténsis G77. Uspallatan = _-| pr1jl Y Chile 1832. Cs Sw. fl. gar. 2.s. 222 
** It evidently varies a good deal in the number of its leaflets, and also in other minor points: 
circumstances which dispose us to hesitate in recognising as distinct species [the uspallaténsis] 

the A. hérrida and A. trijuga.’’? (D. Don.) 
A slender, thorny, diminutive shrub, which is interesting in its branched 
‘spines ; in its abruptly pinnate leaves, whose leaflets are pretty in their small- 
ness; in its rich, yellow, red-streaked, small, pea-shaped blossoms, which are 
produced in few-flowered terminal racemes; and in its lezumes, which, “ when 
full grown, are particularly pretty, from the long feathery hairs with which they 
are adorned.” A. uspallaténsis is in the Chelsea Botanic Garden, where it has 
been raised from seeds obtained of Mr. Cuming. Uspallata is a plain about fifty 
miles long, and six broad, on the eastern Andes. (Zhe Brit. Flow. Gard., Jan.) 


1985. LUPI‘NUS. 4 
17717a incanus Grah. hoary-herbaged #\_Sor3jn.o Pa.Li Buenos Ayres? 1832. Ss.1_ Bot. mag. 3283 
** It approaches very near to Z. multifldrus of Encyc. Method. iii. 624.” (Dr. Graham.) 


Described as “ a very handsome species, raised by Mr. Neill from seeds of 
it sent by Mr. Tweedie of Buenos Ayres,” and as flowering “ freely in the 
green-house at Canonmills [Mr. Neill’s], in June, 1833.” The leaves are 
figured of from seven to ten leaflets ; and the star formed by them, as rayedly 
arranged, is described as of “ about 6 in. across.” The raceme of flowers is 
“a foot and a half long.’ The flowers are not very large, but they are 
numerous ; the corollas are of a pale lilac colour: and these features, added 
to those of the hoariness of the plant’s herbage and the graceful form of the 
leaflets, must render the species a very interesting one. (Bot. Mag., Dec.) | 

Lupinus, a species of, named, probably by Dr. Lindley, albifrons, is 
figured in the Botanical Register for January. It is only stated to be “a new 
shrubby Californian species, figured from the garden of the London Horticul- 
tural Society.” A fuller account, it is promised, will be supplied in the next 
number. The figure exhibits a very pretty species. ; 

Mr. David Douglas, “in his first visit to the shores of the Columbia, 
detected no less than seventeen species of lupine; and several species 
have rewarded him on his second visit, as well as in California.” (Dr. 
Hooker, Bot. Mag., Dec. 1833, t. 3283.) 

Vou, X.— No. 48. 1s 


re 


66 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


XCVI. Rutdcee. 
1311. ERIOSTE‘MON. 

gracilis Grah. graceful w __Jpr 1? jl? Li N. Holl. 1831. Cpl 

A “rather graceful little shrub, with pendulous, twiggy, very leafy branches ;” 
leaf two lines long, fleshy, semicylindrical ; flowers ten lines across, terminal, 
solitary, freely produced. The whole herbage has a resinous perfume. E. gra- 
cilis is possessed by Mr. Cunningham, Comely Bank Nursery, Edinburgh. 
(Dr. Graham, in Jameson’s Phil, Journ., January, 1834.) 

CXXIII. Ovalidee. O’xalis crenata (1X. 618.) will never answer for 
general culture. One of my plants was in flower as early as the middle of 
July. The plant is now 12 ft. in circumference: it was cut down, last week, 
with the frost. I put my spade under it, and did not perceive a tuber. I 
have taken up several plants that I struck from cuttings, and have found 
nothing but fibres. — J. D., sen. Waterbeach, near Cambridge, Oct. 17. 1833. 

Mr. D. Beaton, gardener to W. Gordon,-Esq., of Haffield, near Ledbury, 
Herefordshire, in a letter to Dr. Hamilton, Plymouth, on Oct. 4., states that 
he has “ ascertained that the succulent stems of the O. crenata are an excel 
lent substitute for rhubarb in tarts; and agreeable, with full one third less of 
sugar than rhubarb requires, to the most fastidious palate.” Also, that it, 
“ when boiled with water till quite soft, and, after the water has been drained 
off, beaten up with new milk, makes an excellent dish for children, who, in 
general, appear very fond of it in that state.’ Mr. Beaton farther states that 
the herbage of O. crenata, which is produced in prodigious abundance in 
light deep soils, is a superior green fodder for cattle in summer. ‘ Cows, 
horses, and pigs eat it with avidity, after it has been given them two or 
three times: cows do not acquire a relish for it so readily as the others. The 
more the plant is cut, the more it grows.” 

Mr. Maund, in his Botanic Garden for January, has published a figure of 
O. crenata, and offers numerous remarks in relation to it. We quote some of 
them: — “ Its stems are tender, succulent, and admirably suited to the pur- 
pose of yielding a grateful acidity to salads [as suggested in IX. 618.]; as well as 
forming a delicious tart, which,probably, no one but ourselves has tried.” [Mr. 
Beaton has, as is shown above. See, also, in p. 87.] Our next quotation, in 
part, answers the question suggested by Dr. Hamilton, in IX. 618.:—“ We 
have boiled the tubers, and find them to be quite as agreeable as the potato : 
so similar, that they may be eaten without the difference being observed. When 
roasted, they indicate a deficiency of farinaceous substance ; therefore, to give 
the comparison of nutritive matter contained in the potato and oxalis some 
decided shape, we have separated the starch and gluten from a like weight of 
each. We find that one avoirdupois ounce of oxalis produces 42 grains; 
whilst loz. of potato, similarly treated, produces 106 grains.” Mr. Maund 
has tried various modes of cultivating the plant. In the course and issue of 
these, he has noticed that stems, allowed to recline on the earth, have emitted 
tubers from their under side; and that others, about which a little earth had 
been drawn, have produced an increased proportion of tubers. He has 
accordingly suggested that the mode of culture which will induce the greatest 
productiveness may consist in laying the stems, and covering them to a shal- 
low depth “ with light rich mould, as they proceed in growth, leaving only, 
perhaps, 6 in. of the end of each shoot out of the soil; or, as no emission of 
tubers takes place till late in summer, the stems may remain spread out on 
the surface of the bed, in all directions, till about August; and then receive 
a covering of 2in. thick of light compost, nearly to the ends of the stems... . 
Every stem is capable of being made productive.” Mr. Maund states that 
“ Mr. Cameron has observed some of the tubers of O. crenata exposed to 
frosts; notwithstanding which, they vegetated in the spring.” 

CXXIX. Linee. 

921. LI‘NUM. 
412¢ Cuming: B. C. Cuming’s # LJ or = su Y Chile 1830. Cp. Bot. cab. 1996 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 67 


A pretty little plant, introduced by Mr. Cuming. Its brilliant flowers are 
produced during nearly the whole of the summer. It requires the green- 
house. (Bot. Cab., Dec.) Messrs. Loddiges, doubtless, possess the plant: 
Mr. Dennis dees also. 

CXXXI. Passifloree. 

1923. PASSIFLO‘RA. § Decdloba Dec. 

kermesina L&. & G. crimson (sepals and petals) § (ZA) spl 20 allsea C ... 1831. L r.l Bot. reg. 1633 

“ Brought from the Berlin Botanic Garden, to the Lendon Horticultural 
Society’s Garden, by Mr. Bentham, in the autumn ef 1831; and it has been 
almest ever since in Mower. It is, beyend all comparison, the most beautiful 
species in cultivation, except P.racemdsa. Its flowers have a richness of 
colour which art cannot imitate; they are produced in very great abundance, 
at almost all seasons; and, im consequence of the length of the slender stalks 
from which they singly hang, the whole plant has a graceful aspect, which is 
unrivalled even among passion-flowers. Unfertunately, it is prepagated with 
considerable difficulty, no part of the stem striking from cuttings except what 
is very woody and completely formed ; and this, which is always at the bot- 
tom of the stem, can scarcely be procured without cutting dewn the whole 
plant. Requires a hot and damp stove.” (Bot. Reg., Dec.) The leaves are 
three-lobed, green above, of a wine colour beneath, 

PASSIFLO‘RA. § Dysésmia Des {Bot. reg. 1634 
gossypiifolia Desv. Cotton-tree-lfd. cu8 au W W. Indies, Mexico, Lima 1831. C rl 
Synonyme: “ P. Zibiscifdlia Dec. Prod. iii. 331. (Lindley.) 

A herbaceous perennial species, requiring the stove in Britain. its flowers 
(white) are not showy or very large; and its leaves not striking, but illustrate 
the plant’s specific name, in showing a resemblance to those of the cotton 
tree. The green-stalked glands of its leaf-stalks, and of its airy pinnate 
inyolucres, are beautiful objects. (Bot. Reg., Dec.) 


By misapprehension or oversight, ail the species of Passifldra, Muructia, and Tacsdnia, in Horé. 
Brit., p. 269, 270., are marked as evergreen twiners ($ ): none of them entwine, all climb and 
are evergreen ({). 


CXLVI. Galacinez. 
3450. FRANCONA. 
£28871 ramds2 D. Don branched-injier. y Ajor 2} jlau W Chile 1831. Spi Sw.fi.gar.2.s.223 

This pretty species is figured from Mr. Knight’s nursery, Chelsea. Its 
white flowers are smaller than those of F. appendiculata, which are of a pink 
colour; but they are, perhaps, more numerous, and the branched inflorescence 
presents them more amassed. F. ramdsa grews abundantly on the hills near 
Valparaiso, in Chile. In Britain it thrives in a mixture of sandy peat and 
loam, and perfects an abundance of seeds. (Zhe British Flower-Garden, 
Jan. 

Ot F. appendiculata, Dr. Lindley has published a figure in the Bot. Reg. 
for Jan., and pronounces this and F. sonchifolia to be identical; and states 
that “ F. ramésa would have but slender claims to being preserved [in the rank 
of a species], if it were not for the absence of pubescence from its inflo- 
rescence.” 


MonopreTaLous DicoTyLEDONOUS PLANTs. 


CLKXX. Ervicee. 


i341, ANDRO’MEDA. [TL s.p Bot. mag. 3286 

4711044 salicifdlia Commerson Willow-lfd. @, Jor 32?my P.Gsh Mauritius, Madagascar 1828? 

Hitherto we possess only figures [of this species] made from native specimens.” (Dr. Hooker.) Wf 

this be the faet, A. salicifolia Wat., of Hort. Brit. No. 11044., is a distinct species or variety. 

{ That this latter is a distinct species is probable from Mr. Sweet’s referring it to the genus 
Lyonia. See his Hort. Brit., ed. 2. p. 331 


Introduced, from the woods of the Mauritius, by the late Mr. Telfair, into 
the garden of the late Robert Barclay, Esq.; and thence to the Birmingham 
Botanic Garden. The flowers borne by the specimen received by Dr. 
Hooker, in May, 1833, were of a greenish hue, “ partaking little of the fine 
purple so remarkable in drawings from living native specimens.” The species 
in Britain “ needs the protection of a warm green-house.” The flowers are 

F 2 


68 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


produced in terminal and lateral racemes. The glabrous lance-shaped leaves 
are white beneath. (Bot. Mag., Dec.) 

CLXXIV. Campanulacee. 

61la PETROMA/RULA Pers. & A. Dec. (Petra, a rock, maron, an herb; habitat.) 5.1. Sp. 1.— 
5172 pinnata Pers. winged-lfd. y A\ or 3 au  Pa.B Candia 1640. Dr.l Sw.fl.gar.2.s,124 

Phyteima pinnatum JV. and others; Hort. Brit. No, 5172. 

This very rare and very interesting species is figured from Messrs. Young’s 
nursery, Epsom; where, under the judicious and skilful treatment of Mr. 
Penny, “ planted in the open ground in May, in rich loamy soil, it grew 
vigorously, and threw up from 40 to 50 stems, which began to blossom 
towards the end of August.” P. pinnata “is frequent on the rocky shores 
and mountainous parts of Candia, and also on Mount Baldo in Italy.” A 
consideration of the probable circumstances of these localities may explain 
“ the great difficulty attending the cultivation of the plant in this moist cli- 
mate,” and may suggest means to surmount the difficulty. “ In Britain it 
requires, in winter, the protection of a frame or green-house. It may be 
increased slowly by division.” (The British Flower-Garden, Jan.) 

CLXXV. Lobeliacez. 


609. LOBE‘LIA 5113. pubérula. 
2 glabélla Hook. smoothish-herbaged Y A or 3 jl.au B.P Louisiana 1832. Dzp.l1 Bot. mag. 3292 


“ This is a highly interesting addition to our garden lobelias, and was intro- 
duced last year by Mr. Drummond, who sent the seeds from Jacksonville in 
Louisiana,” we suppose to the Glasgow Botanic Garden. “ Its nearest affinity 
is perhaps with L. syphilitica, but its inflorescence is less dense and vastly 
more elongated [1 ft. long], its flowers smaller, of a brighter colour... . 
Corolla bright purplish blue.” (Bot. Mag., Jan.) 

odorata Grah. fragrantslwd. 2. .Ajfra} aut W Buenos Ayres? 1832. D pl 

It possesses but little beauty, beyond that of a lively green tuft of herbage : 
its perfume, which resembles that of the blossoms of the hawthorn, is remark- 
able in the genus. Mr. Neill of Canonmills has raised the plant from seeds 
sent to him by Mr. Tweedie. (Dr. Graham, in Jameson’s Phil. Journal, 
January, 1834.) 

CLXXXVI. Composite. 


2337. A’STER 21309 puniceus. 
2 demissus Lindl. dwarf \Y A or Z au B English gardens 18202? D co Bot. reg. 1636 


“‘ It is a very compact herbaceous plant, not exceeding 13 or 2 ft. in height, 
with very pale green leaves, and a corymbose inflorescence comprehending 
masses of bluish flowers, which appear in August, long before those of the 
true A. puniceus. It is among the handsomest of the genus.” It is in the 
London Horticultural Society’s Garden, and in the Liverpool Botanic Garden. 
(Bot. Reg., the figure in December, the text in January.) 


2409. HELIA’NTHUS. Subgenus Leighza Cass. 
specidsus Hook. showy-énjlor. © ord sn R Jorullo? 1833. Sco Bot. mag. 3295 


Dr. Hooker, who has named the plant as above, is not certain of its affi- 
nities; he suspects that it may be a species of Tithonia. It is, apparently, 
a very ornamental, and, therefore, very desirable plant. To Mr. Edward 
Leeds of Manchester, who has lately commenced business there as a nursery- 
man and florist, W. Higson, Esq., of Manchester, sent a packet of seeds from 
the Botanic Garden, Mexico. From them have arisen, under Mr. Leeds’s 
-eare, several species of plants not known in the neighbourhood of Man- 
chester. Among them, from seeds labelled “ Compésita speciosa,” arose the 
plant figured, and named by Dr. Hooker Helianthus specidsus. “ Only one 
seed vegetated ;” consequently, only one plant has flowered, and this “ an unfor- 
tunately early frost has cut completely off?’ therefore the plant is, very pro- 
bably, lost to the country. It appears that it is an annual, large, bushy, and 
in outline conical, with large leaves, the earlier and lower undivided, the later 
and upper deeply divided, and three-lobed. The head of florets (the flower) is, 
by the picture, about 3 in. across, and the rays of a red or orange red colour 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 69 


“ The first head of flowers (flower) which appeared was at the termination of 
the main branch, and quite erect, and afterwards each lateral branch threw out 
a flower at its extremity, rather in a horizontal direction, the end of the flower- 
stalk inclining upwards.” (Bot. Mag., Jan.) 

Cephalophora glaica Cav.— I would recommend this annual to attention, 
not for the beauty of its flowers, for they have no conspicuous beauty, but for 
the delightful fragrance of its herbage: it resembles that of a ripe melon. 
The whole plant is, even its seeds are, fragrant; and a little of it put amongst 
clothes gives them a most agreeable perfume. I would have this generally 
known, that the plant, which, though not showy in its flowers, is an interesting 
one, may be more generally cultivated. It requires no particular treatment : 
raise it on a hot-bed in spring, and plant it out when up. — G. M. Elliott. Coul, 
Sept. 18. 1833. 

CXCI. Cornee Dec. Benthamia fragifera. (1X.367.) Mr. John Roberts, 
gardener to J. H. Tremayne, Esq., of Heligan, St. Austle, Cornwall, most 
kindly sent us, on Dec. 26. 1833., specimens, bearing ripe fruit, leaves, and 
flower-buds, of this newly-introduced and highly interesting hardy evergreen 
shrub. Mr. Roberts is the person whe has the happiness to be the first who 
raised this plant; with whom it flowered for the first time in Europe, and who 
supplied the specimens from which the drawing published in the Botanical 
Register was taken. His plant of Benthamia fragifera is 16 ft. in height and 
covered with fruit. It has been out in the open ground fer eight years, with- 
out any protection, not even a mat. It is planted in stiff clay, and at a great 
elevation. The forward state of the flower-buds on the specimens, suggest 
that the flowers of the plant are displayed early in the year; though, we pre- 
sume, not so early as these of the Cornus mascula: the leaves of Benthamia 
fragifera resemble, a good deal, those of the C. mascula; but are, we think, 
more elegant. The involucral leaves, which first defend, and then garnish, 
the heads of flowers, are large and showy; as is evinced in some dried spe- 
cimens which one of Mr. Roberts’s assistants had given him to send us. The 
heads of ripened fruit are orbicular, depressed, more than 1 in. across, of 
a tawny red, and on a peduncle 3in. long. A bush studded with these, partly 
pendulous by their weight, and abounding in its neat green glossy leaves, must 
be, in a bright autumn day, a very lovely ebject. We have distributed the 
seeds, obtained from the fruits sent by Mr. Roberts, to botanic gardens and 
nurseries. The shrub, it is stated in the Floricultwral Cabinet, may be increased. 
by cuttings, planted in leam under a hand-glass. 


CXCV. Asclepiadeze. 


775. MARSDE.NTIA. 
flavéscens Cun. yellowish-flwd. $ (] fra? 20? jn.au Ysh N. Holl. 18302 Cs. Bot. mag. 3289: 


Nearly allied to M. viridiflora Br. 

Discovered by Mr. Allan Cunningham on the sea-shore at the Illawana 
district, in lat. 344°, New Holland, whence he introduced living plants of it to 
Kew, where they flower throughout the summer months. The figure exhibits 
a twining branch, which bears opposite petiolate lanceolate leaves waved at 
their margin, and stalked axillary cymes of green flowers whose corollas are 
wheel-shaped. (Bot. Mag., Dec.) 


778. CEROPEXGIA. 
Lashiz Grah. Dr. Lush’s _#@(Ajcu8?s Lead Bombay 1833. O pl 


Leaves lanceolate-linear, on short petioles; peduncles axillary, cymose; 
corolla 2 in. long, leaden-coloured, and glabrous on the outside, deep purple, 
and slightly hairy within. This plant flowered in a stove in the Royal Botanic 
Garden, Edinburgh, in September, 1833. Dr. Graham received it, in February, 
1833, from his “ friend, Dr. Lush of Bombay.” (Dr. Graham, in Jameson’s 
Phil. Journ., January, 1834.) 


CXCVII. Gentianez. 


464. VILLA’/RS/4A. : 
chilénsis B.C. —_- Chilian 2 Alor 1 jn PaY Chile 1832 ? Dr Bot. cab. 1994 


F3 


70 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


“ Has been very lately introduced.... The flowers are very pretty, and 
open a few at a time, in succession, each lasting but a short while.’ (Bot. 
Cab., Dec.) 

CC. Polemoniacee. 


459. GI’LIA. § Ipomopsis. i 
ageregata D. Don tufted-injlor. Clor3 ji S N.W. America 1822. Sand€ s1 Sw.fi-gar2.3.218 
G, aggregata D. Don in Euinb. Phil. Journ., 1822; Cdntua aggregata Ph.; Gilia puichélla Dou. ; 
Tpomopais elegans Lindi. 3 
This is the plant noticed by the name of G. pulchella in IX 705,: G. aggregata is the name 
which proves to have been anteriorly applied. 
_ © When G. aggregata is in blossom, few plants of this family surpass it in 
beauty. It is very nearly related to G. coronopifolia, but they are botanically 
distinguishable. G. aggregata is figured from Mr. Knight’s collection. (Brit. 
Flow. Garden., Dec.) 
CCIX. Gesnéree. 


1698. GE/SNERA. (Dr. Lindley has thus speiled the word. Gesnéria is more usual ; but, perhaps, 
not so proper.) 
15332a Sittoni Booth Capt. Sutton’s 3% (ZA) or 2ji Ss Rio Janeiro 1833. C rl Bot. reg. 1637 


“ Introduced by Captain Sutton, who found it growing in a wood; its 
beautiful flowers attracted his attention, and induced him to dig up the plant 
and bring it home. (Qn his arrival m England, in March, 1833, he presented 
the choice collection which he had fermed of orchideous and other mteresting 
plants, to Sir Charles Lemon, Bart., and Geo. Crocker Fox, Esq., Grove Hill, 
Falmouth ; in the garden of the latter, G. Sattonz flowered in July, under the 
judicious management of Mr. Friend. It bears some resemblance to G. bulbosa, 
but is evidently distinct from that species, differing from it in foliage, and its 
flowers are larger, and have a broader outstretched upper lip.” (Wm. Beattie 
Booth, A.L.S., who has described, drawn, and named the plant, as published 
in the Bot. Reg., Dec.¥ 

CCXVII. Bignoniacee. Bignonia venista. Of this superb climber two mest 
striking specimens, abounding in clusters of brilliant orange-coloured tubular 
blossoms, 24 in. long, were sent us on Jan. 2. 1834, from the stove of Robert 
Trevor, Esq. of Tingrith, near Woburn, by his excellent gardener, Mr. George 
Phillips. This charming plant was first figured in the Botanical Register for 
Jan. 1818, ii. 249., and from a plant which had flowered in Lord Liverpool’s 
residence at Coombe Wood. At the date mentioned the plant was also in 
the nursery of Messrs. Whitley and Co., Fulham, and that of Mr. Colvill, 
Chelsea. Now it is, we trust, more common; for its ready growth, and 
extreme beauty when in blossom, render it, at least one of, the most desirable 
of stove climbing plants. We have been favoured by Mr. Phillips with the 
following facts on his practice in the culture of it: — 

‘““ B. veniista appears to like free scope for its roots. We have here two 
flowering plants, which are planted in the back corners of the bark bed, in 
boxes 1 ft. square and 5 ft. deep, formed of perforated boards, and filled with 
a mixture of sandy loam and leaf mould. The roots have passed out of the 
boxes into the decayed bark of the bark bed, in which there is always a gentle 
heat, and in which they grow and spread very freely. We water liberally with 
the drainings from the hot-beds and rain water. The plants are trained per- 
pendicular with a single stem, now 3in. in girth, to the points where they 
touch the rafter; and to this point the branches, when they have done 
flowering, are always cut back, while at the same time the bark bed is reno- 
vated and the roots reduced. When the grape vines are in this house we 
train the bignonia along two wires close under the rafters, over the path, a foot 
from the glass. When the grape vines are taken_ cut we lead the shoots of 
the bignonia down the rafters; and, in its flowering season, it may be said to 
cover the whole house; and it has a most splendid appearance. In 1831, 
1832, the B. venista began flowering on Oct.3.; in 1833, two or three weeks 
later. It continues blossoming between three and four months, and some of . 
the finest specimens have upwards of 70 flowers in a corymb. A branch 
mtroduced into the green-house has flowered sparingly. Cuttings of the young 
shoots when about 9 in. long will strike root freely in a hot-bed.”” 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 71 


CCXX. Verbendcee. 


1749. VERBE‘NA. 

sulphirea D. Don sulphureous-corollaed 2. _Aj or 1 au Su Chile 1832. C s.1 Sw.fl.gar.2.s.221 

‘* Nearly related to V. crithméides and radicans of Gillies and Hooker.”’ 

Stems many, procumbent. Leaves deeply pinnatifid. Flowers of a sulphur 
colour, larger than those of V. multifida, thickly arranged in a capitate spike. 
V. sulphurea is figured from the collection of W. Christy, jun., Esq., Clapham ; 
in whose collection it flowered in August, 1833. The plant is, apparently, 
perennial, and forms a close spreading patch. It appears to prefer a loamy 
soil, and grows luxuriantly in the open border during summer, but requires 
the protection of a pit or frame in winter. Cuttings of it root very readily. 
(The British Flower-Garden, Jan.) 


MonocotyLeponous Puants. 


CCXXXII. Commelinez. 


1000. TRADESCA/NTTIA. 
8189a pildsa Lek. hairy-herbaged Y% A cu 2kaut B.P Louisiana 1832. Dco Bot. mag. 5291 


This is closely related to T. virginica and T. subaspera, “from both of 
which it differs in the extremely hairy leaves and flower-stalk, and calyxes, 
and in the smaller flowers; and from T. virginica var. pilosa Lindl. by the 
very hairy (not simply ciliated) and vastly broader and shorter foliage. From 
Dr. Lehman’s T. pilésa it only seems to depart in the absence of glands on 
the pedicels and calyx.” The flowers are “ numerous, produced im ter- 
minal umbels from the axils of two opposite bracteas. The petals, filaments, 
and hairs of the filaments, are of a bright purplish blue; anthers yellow.” 
Sent by Mr. Drummond to the Glasgow Botanic Garden. (Bot. Mag., Jan.) 

CCXXXVIII. Amaryllidez. 


969. AMARY/LLIS. 
796a kermesina Booth carmine-pertanthed § (AJor 1 ... Car Brazil 1833. O/l.p.s Bot. reg. 1638 
Synonyme. It appears to rank next to A.Advena Bot. Reg. t. 1125. fig. 1., and A. intermédia 
Bot. Reg. t. 1148. ; but is perfectly distinct from both, and, indeed, from any species with which 
we are acquainted. (W. B. Booth.) 


A beautiful species, introduced by Lieut. Holland of the Royal Marines, 
Miss Street of Penryn, to whom Lieut. Holland presented bulbs of it, pos- 
sesses the plant from which the figure and description have been derived. 
Herbage glaucous; scape about 1 ft. high; flowers pediceled, 3 or 4 in the 
umbel; perianthium suberect, about 24 in. long, funnel-shaped, slightly bell- 
shaped, of a deep carmine colour, marked with darker veins. The figure and 
description are communicated by Mr. W. B. Booth. (Bot. Reg., Jan.) 


979. ALSTRGEME*‘RIA. 
versicolor R. & P. yarious-cld. (sepals) % A\spl12jn O.spot Chile 1831. D1.p Sw.fi.gar.2.s.203 
aurantiaca D. Don, Gard. Mag. ix. 622. 
On this synonymy, Mr. D. Don has offered this remark in the British, Flower-Garden for Dec. 
, 1833, at foot of t. 220.: —‘* We are now satisfied of our A. aurantiaca being identical with A. 
versicolor of Ruiz and Pavon; which name must [as it is of earlier date], therefore, supe~sede+ 
that which we have applied.” 


CCXXXIX. Iridee. 


148. LIBE’/RTTZ4 Spr. (Mademoiselle M. A. Libert de Maimedy, a Belgian; “‘ femme véritablement, 
savante et modeste,” to whom the French flora is indebted for a great number of new and 
interesting species.) 16.1. Sp. 4.— 

Synonymes. ‘This genus was separated from Sisyrinchium by. Dr. Brown, who gave toit the name 
of Reneflmia : a name applied by Linnzus, but subsequently suppressed by Smith, to some or 
all of the species. of the modern genus Alpinia-; but as the genus Renealmza has been restored, 
upon good grounds, by Roscoe, it becomes necessary to adopt, from Sprengel, the appellation 
Libértza for the genus of Brown, which is a most natural one. The Libertza of Dumortier is 
Hésta of Trattinick, and Finkia of Sprengel; and Libértéa of Lejeune scarcely appears dif- 
ferent from Brown’s [? from Bromus]. (Dr. Hooker, Bot. Mag. 3294.) 

Libértia Spr., Renedlmia R. Br., Nematostigma Dietrich. The Libértia of Lejeune, or Mi- 
ene Oy Dumortier, is considered, with good reason, to be a Bromus. (Dr. Lindley, Bot. 

eg. r 
71368 grandifldra #. Br. large-flowered ¥ _Aj or 13 ap W N. Zeal. 1822. Dp.l Sw.fi-gar.2.s.64 
[Bot. mag. 3294 


1368a formdsa Grah. handsome y Alor 13 my W Chiloe 1831. Dp.l Bot. reg. 1630 
' +1369 paniculata &. Br. panicled ¥ .Ajor 12 ap.au W N. Holl. 1823. D pl f 
+1370 pulchélla #. Br. pretty y¥ Alor 1 apjl W N. Holl. 1823. D pl 


That distinguished collector of plants, and other productions of nature, 
Mr. James Anderson, found Libértia formosa in Chiloe, and growing on the 
F 4 


We, Floricultural and- Botanical Notices. 


sea-shore within reach of the waves. He communicated seeds of it to 
Mr. Low of the Clapton Nursery, from which have arisen the plants figured. 
The picture in the Bot. Reg. is from a plant which flowered in Mr. Low’s 
nursery; that in the Bot. Mag. from a plant which has “ flowered beautifully 
in Mr. Cunningham’s nursery, at Comely Bank, Edinburgh.” The leaves are 
linear, sword-shaped, and nearly all radical. The stem, unbranched, has its 
~ lower part garnished with about three leaves, and is terminated by a head of 
white flowers. The flower resembles that of the Tradescantia virginica nivea, 
but is obviously smaller. The plant’s “ rootstocks form a number of crowns 
by which it may be propagated, and it will probably ripen seeds in the green- 
house.” We have ventured to prescribe the frame as the fitter habitation. 
(Bot. Reg., Dec. 1833; Bot. Mag., Jan. 1834.) 
CCXL. Orchidee. 


CY’CNOCHES Lindi. [Not explained, but probably from kyknos, a swan, which the flower may 

be fancied to resemble. ] [Bot. cab. 2000 

Loddigész Lindl. Loddiges’s [A or 1 my Br.spot Surinam. 1836. D p.moss.potsh. 

This plant produces very extraordinary flowers. “ Dr. Lindley has given it 

the above name, and has published it in his excellent work the Genera and 

Species of Orchideous Plants.” Messrs. Loddiges received the plant from 

Mr. Lance. They “ have preserved it in the stove planted in moss and 

broken bits of pot, and suspended from a rafter ; but it has not yet increased.” 
(Bot. Cab., Dec.) 

2524. CIRRH EA. Bot. cab. 1999 
Warreana B. C. Mr. Warre’s’ y Wor 3 ... Y.var Brazil 1831 ? p.moss.potsh 
Discovered by Mr. Warre, who communicated it to Messrs. Loddiges. “ It 

bears a strong resemblance to the other species. They are all highly in- 
teresting and curious plants, well deserving every possible care in cultivation. 
Like the others, it will admit of occasional increase by separating its offsets.” 
( Bot. Cab., Dec.) 


CYRTOCHULUM #. & Kth. (Kyrtos, convex, cheilos, a lip ; form of the labellum.) 20. 1. 
eS flavéscens Lind/. straw-cld.flwd. &[A) orl jn Str.spot Mexico 1830. D p.r.w Bot. reg. 1627 
The handsome flowers, borne in a raceme, have yellow sepals and petals, 
and a labellum yellow, spotted with red. “ It is interesting not only for its 
beauty, but also as being the first species of the genus which has yet blos- 
somed in Europe. _ Its flowers, like those of the other species, turn yellow in 
drying. Possessed hy R. Harrison, Esq., of Aigburgh. It was imported by 
Mr. Tate. (Sot. Reg., figure in November; text in December.) 
CCXLVII. Asphodelee. 
$338. HESPEROSCO’/RDUM Lindl. (Hesperos, the west, skordon, garlic ; a native of the western 


: world, and allied to the genus A’llium or Garlic.) 6. 1. Sp. 2.— 
98178a lacteum Lindl. white-perianthed. § A pr 1ijl W_ California 1833. O co Bot. reg. 1639 


H. lacteum has “ very’much the aspect of some white-flowered allium. 
Mr. Douglas, who found it in California, sent thence bulbs (cormi) of it to the 
London Horticultural Society, in whose garden it flowered, for the first time 
in Europe, in July, 1833. It seems to grow freely in any sort of soil, and 
will probably thrive if left to its fate in the open border all winter.” 
H. lacteum is very like the H. hyacinthinwm, from which it differs in having 
smaller flowers; and especially in these being disposed in a less compact 
umbel, with the stalks (pedicels) rather more than twice as long as the flowers 
themselves. (Bot. Reg. Jan.) 

CCLVI. Aroidee. 

83la ANTHU‘RIUM Schott & Endlicher. (Anthos, a flower, owra, a tail; the floriferous spadix 
3 tail-shaped.) 4. 1. 

‘° Messrs. Schott and Endlicher have lately, in a very elaborate memoir, separated (and, we think, 

rightly) the American plants usually referred to Pothos from that genus, and have given them 


the new name of Anthirium. The type of the genus Pothos, in the acceptation of these learned 
botanists, is the P. scandens Bot. Reg. 1337.” (Lindley.) 


Bot. reg. 1635 
+2784 gracile Lindi. slender-spadized (2) cuz my.jn. G Trinidad, Denetar 1825. ak s.p 
Pothos gracilis Rudge, Hort. Brit., No. 2784. 
It has little beauty when in flower; but its spikes of crimson berries give 
it a pretty appearance when in fruit. It requires a treatment similar to that 
of epiphytal orchideous plants. (Bot. Reg., Dec.) 


Retrospective Criticism. 73 


Caiddium pinnatifidum. The flowers of certain species of Aroideze have been 
found to disengage heat in the course of their flowering; and in Jameson’s 
Phil. Journ. for January, 1834, there is a statement of the degrees of heat 
which Dr. Schultz has observed the flowers of Caladium pinnatifidum, as pro- 
duced in a hot-house in the Berlin Botanic Garden, to evolve. The flowers 
of a spadix blossom and decay “ in the space of about twelve hours, and are in 
their greatest perfection between 8 and 10 in the evening.” Dr. Schultz did 
not, previously to 5 o’clock, afternoon, find the flowers of a spadix evince a 
greater temperature than that of the place in which they were kept: this was 
61:2° Fahy. “ At about 6 o’clock the flower, which had been previously without 
any smell, gave out a very powerful odour, and indicated, on trial, 65:1°; at 
7 o’clock, 70°2°; at 8 o’clock, 74°7°; at half past 8, 76°; at 9, 78°; at 
10 o'clock, 81°; and this last appeared to be the greatest height, since there 
seemed to be no farther increase up to 11 o’clock, During the increase in 
temperature evinced by the flowers, the disengagement of the odour likewise 
increased. This became so powerful that the place was impregnated with an 
ammoniacal vapour. In the morning the temperature of the flowers had fallen 
to the temperature of the air,” which, it is inferable from the absence of a 
mention to the contrary, had remained uniform throughout the period named. 


Art. V. Retrospective Criticism. 


CORRECTIONS. — In 1X. 672. line 2. for “ salicifolia,’ read “ salicarizefolia.”’ 

Corrections to the Encyclopedia of Gardening, new edition. — The only cor- 
rections which we have yet (December 20.) received are the following, by 
the much esteemed and venerable President of the Horticultural Society, who 
may be truly called the father of scientific gardening in England. We esteem 
it an honour to ourselves, and a great advantage to our readers, that our 
Lincyclopedia has received corrections from such a quarter: we are sincerely 
grateful for them, and ardently hope that they will be continued by the same 
excellent authority as the work proceeds. Mr. Knight’s corrections to Part I. 
are as follows : — 

§ 9. and § 46. There is no direct mention whatever, I think, in the older 
of the Homeric poems [the Iliad] of gardens; but the vine and the fig were 
then raised, and, I conclude, cultivated in enclosures; for wild animals and 
birds must have been vastly more numerous in those days than in our own. 
There are parts in that poem which prove that the author, and probably his 
countrymen, had not been wholly inattentive to the vegetable kingdom. One 
of these only I shall now mention. Homer applies the epithet “ seed- 
destroying” to an aquatic tree thrown down by the Scamander. I think there 
can be no doubt of its being a male poplar or male willow. As malleable 
iron was wholly unknown at the period when the older Homeric poem was 
composed, and as it appears to have been well known when the Bible was 
written (I mean the earlier parts of it), there appears much probability of 
the Iliad being the older. 

§ 12. The common gardener will here suppose our sycamore to be meant, 
and not the fig mulberry, Ficus Sycémorus L. 

§ 14. The peach tree was not introduced into Egypt till long after the 
Augustan age. The “ Persea” of Pliny (the tree alluded to in your para- 
graph) was a totally different species of fruit; and none now exists which 
corresponds with Pliny’s description. The edible part of the fruit described 
by Pliny appears, I think (I speak from memory only), to be enclosed in a 
kind of shell; and he speaks of its excessive sweetness, “ praedulcis suavitas.” 

§ 15. Irrigation is, I think, mentioned in the Iliad. A peasant is described 
conducting a rill of water to irrigate his ground, or garden, which I suppose it 
to have probably been. atid 

§ 88. I pointed out to Sir Joseph Banks, as he has stated, the lines in 


74: Lietrospective Craticasm. 


Martial, which he and I conceived to prove that the Romans possessed hot- 
houses. Martial says, that winter was commanded to bear the fruits of autumn. 


* Autumnum sterilis ferre jubetur Hyems,” 


are, I think, his words, but I quote from memory only; and fruits could not 
possibly be ripened in Rome during winter without fire heat; and, as the 
Romans heated their houses with flues, the advantage of applying those flues 
to their fruit houses could never have escaped them. 

The most important information which you will, I think, be able to give to 
the modern gardener respects the chemical changes which take place in the 
sap of trees, and the motions of the sap at different periods of the year. That 
it descends in our trees through the bark (I exclude the palm tribe generally), 
from the leaves, cannot be questioned; nor that it ascends through the albur- 
num into the leaf: but that a portion of the fluid, which has become true sap 
in the leaves, passes from the bark into the alburnum, and there joins the 
ascending current, and feeds the young shoots and leaves, is not generally 
understood by gardeners ; nor that the fruit is fed by similar means ; nor that 
the sap is deposited in the alburnum, to afford materials for leaves, or to feed 
the blossoms and young fruit of the succeeding spring. The coagulum which 
gives the matter of the new layer of bark in the spring is derived from the 
same source, though the arrangement of the vessels and fibrous texture of the 
bark is given by the fluid which descends by the bark. I remain, dear Sir, &c. 
— 7. A. Knight. Downton, Dec. 17. 1833. 

Analysis of Soils. —In one of Mr. Johnson’s communications on horticul- 
tural chemistry (V. 404.), directions are laid down for the analysis of soils, 
with so much clearness and simplicity, that Iam hopeful that the day is not 
far distant when every gardener, who deserves the name, will be able to 
analyse soils for himself, and scrutinise every improvement in the manage- 
ment with the discriminating eye of a philosopher. There is, however, a slip 
of the pen, or of the types, in the description of the process; which, though 
it cannot cause inconvenience to those skilled in chemistry, may prove to the 
tyro a considerable impediment. In soils where iron is present, it may, as the 
author of the paper directs, be separated from the other ingredients by dis- 
solution in muriatic acid. Into this solution we are directed to drop gradually 
‘* a solution of prussiate of iron.” Instead of the latter substance, prussiate 
of potass is, I apprehend, meant. The prussiate or hydrocyanate of iron is 
the precipitated, not the precipitating, salt. Having followed with complete 
success the plain rules laid down in this paper for the analysis of soils, I 
recommend them to those of my professional brethren who may be disposed 
to enter on such investigations. — Ephebicus Horticultor. Nov. 1. 1833. 

Fountains for the London Squares. (IX. 539.) — No one launches out ever 
so little in print, but he finds the small fry of the Aristarchus tribe ready at 
their post to give their veto, or their fiat, to whatever even the humblest may 
assay. My London-square fountains have come in for their share ; and, among 
the sapient remarks directed against their adoption, none, I think you will say, 
are more amusing than the objection made against them from the ducking His 
Majesty’s liege subjects must inevitably get, if they walk on the weather side 
of one of my 60 ft. jets in a windy day. If a man were to build a villa proxi- 
mate to the Falls of Niagara, one might truly say, that, under the favour of 
a brisk wind, he might find himself rather oftener than he liked in a Scotch 
mist ; but to suppose that any thing short of a hurricane would throw a jet of 
water 60 ft.in height, and of proportionate diameter, more than its own 
elevation in a lateral direction, looks very like the suggestion of one of the 
wise men of Gotham ; and, if blowing a hurricane, why need the jet play at all? 
The same art that bids it rise triumphant into air can bid it sleep; and 
therefore, as far as that goes, I must think, “ cadunt questio et argumentum” 
[the question and argument both fall]. — William Mason, jun. Necton, Nor- 
folk, Nov. 1833. 

Mr Ballard’s Treatise on the Nature of Trees, and the Pruning of Timber 


Retrospective Criticism. 75 


Trees, reviewed in Vol. UX. p. 687. — Sir, J. M., in his review of this work, 
states that the author is “ chargeable with misrepresentation, for asserting that 
the sole object of the forest pruner is to obtain bulk of stem.” He then states 
that “length of stem and clearness from knots, whether dead or alive, con- 
stitute the strength and value of timber;”’ and infers that.these qualities 
cannot be obtained without the aid of the pruner. Now, in no part of the 
Treatise is it asserted that the pruner’s sole object is to obtain bulk of stem; 
and in chap. iv. is the following sentence :— The pruning of timber trees 
may be said to have for its object, first, to advance the growth and bulk of 
trees; secondly, to improve their form; and, thirdly, to improvethe quality of 
the timber.” Each of these objects is treated of in a separate chapter. I 
leave you, therefore, to decide whether it is I or J. M. that has been guilty 
of misrepresentation. 

J.M. states that “it is well known that the oak sheds its sprays, and the 
larch many of its lower branches.” This wonderful and admirable provision 
of nature may be well known, but I have never seen any account of it, 
except in my own Treatise. J.M. considers the natural shedding of sprays 
an argument in favour of pruning; I would ask him if, because trees shed their 
leaves, he would consider this an argument in favour of taking their leaves 
off? Leaves are not shed until they have performed the functions for which 
they were designed; neither are sprays shed so long as there is sufficient 
space for their growth: nothing is lost through having the parts shed pre- 
maturely; for, in the works of nature, when the intended effect is produced, 
the cause is withdrawn. Yet some men will rely on their own judgment, in 
preference to the unerring rules of nature. 

I cannot agree with J. M. in his notion, that the oak, beech, &c., if permitted 
to stand alone without the aid of pruning, would only form vast bushes, 
wholly worthless to the builder. A very little observation of the nature and 
growth of trees will lead to a different opinion. 

As J. M. states that length of stem and clearness from knots constitute the 
value of timber, perhaps the following extracts from my Treatise may give a 
hint how timber possessing these qualities may be procured :—“ Some imagine 
that whenever a stem is free from branches it is owing to pruning, or to the 
browsing of cattle; but this is not the case, it is natural to a timber tree, be 
its situation what it may, to have a certain portion of its stem clear of 
branches. ...There are no pruners in the uncultivated forests, whence we 
have the long pines and deals imported, with often 30 ft. or 40 ft. clear stem 
before the branches begin. These trees have grown without the assistance of 
the pruner; and they have shed boughs that were far above the reach of 
cattle. These forests clearly prove that trees have the power of shedding such 
sprays as are useless or unnecessary; for a tree could not reach the height 
of 30 ft. or 40 ft. without a great number of branches. It must have branches 
when but 1 ft. or 2ft. high; the number and size of these branches must 
increase, as the tree increases in height; and a tree 30 ft. in height must 
have a great number of branches; yet we have the stems of trees 30 ft. high 
without a single branch. How do the advocates for pruning reconcile this to 
their philosophy ? Will they assert that the stem is stretched, or protruded ; 
so that the boughs, first situated near the ground, are, by the growth and 
lengthening of the stem, lifted up farther from the earth? This they cannot 
say; yet they will have great reluctance in admitting the existence of this 
natural shedding of sprays; for no person who well understands the subject 
will ever prune under the idea of improving the shape or increasing the 
quantity of timber. .. .It is impossible that a tree can be thrifty with a long 
stem, without lower boughs, in an open and exposed situation. It is. equally 
impossible that a tree can, when closely surrounded by others, as it would be 
in a grove, have large and long spreading lower boughs, and a short strong 
stem. If we want long-stemmed timber, we must have it from the grove 
or wood ; if short and large, we shall find it in the detached and exposed tree. 
The pruner never can, with all his imaginary skill, procure, from the detached 


76 Retrospective Criticism. 


and exposed tree, timber long-stemmed and free from knots, as from a grove ; 
neither can he from the thickly planted grove obtain short and strong stems. 
In spite of all his endeavours, trees will persist in trying to suit their shapes to 
their situations. There would be some little more reason in the attempts of 
men to direct the growth of trees, were they by any means to present obstacles 
to prevent the growth of such parts as they wished not to grow; and to leave 
only such parts open and at liberty as they wished to grow. What should 
we think of him who, wishing to divert a river at any point, attempted to do 
so by lading out the water as fast as it ran, instead of presenting an obstacle 
to the progress of the stream, where he wished to stop it? Verily, we should 
think it was the work of a madinan.... It should be considered, that the 
form of a tree is not the effect of accident or chance, but the result of princi- 
ples incessantly acting, and given for securing the most advantageous shape 
for the peculiarities of situation. As trees have not the power of locomotion, 
there is a necessity for their possessing the power of varying their forms 
according to their situations. It is the nature of a tree to take that shape 
which is best calculated for effecting the greatest quantity of growth capable 
of being produced in the situation it may chance to be in.’...1 am much 
gratified by J. M.’s complimentary observations; and I only wish he had read 
the Treatise more attentively. I am, Sir, yours, &c.—Stephen Ballard. Ledbury, 
Dec. 13. 1833. 

Mr. Munro’s Mode of training the Oak for the Production of kneed, or curved, 
Timber for Naval Purposes. (1X. 557.714.) — Sir, In answer to the first 
objection of a “ Journeyman Gardener” (1X. 714.) to my mode of training the 
oak for naval timber (IX. 557.), I need only state that nothing is more easy 
than to prevent the upper part of the trunk decaying down to the first knee: 
the top has only to be rounded off like the head of a walking-cane, and a few 
of the buds allowed to remain on close by the cicatrix, until the bark shall 
have closed over the amputation. Should these shoots dare to make a pull for 
the advantage, let them be kept down till the curved shoots are able to fight 
their own battle. 

The second objection is, that trees or shoots, when supported by posts or 
otherwise, become too weak to support themselves when the said props are 
removed. Mercy on us, Sir! only think on this: a “ Journeyman”’ is surely 
thinking of tall marrowfat peas, and not of trees. Does he imagine all the 
world wrong, and himself only right? Such an idea is common to many, no 
doubt; but let us consider what is the use of a post to a tree. Is it not 
to support it until it shall gather strength to support itself? Why are 
one-year-old grafts, or one-year buds supported in a nursery? Is it not 
with the view of strengthening them, rather than to render them feeble ? 
However, a “ Journeyman” thinks differently, and, consequently, is of opi- 
nion that the action of the wind would cause sad twisting and creaking 
among the knees and curves: but even supposing his notions to be correct, 
in a forest consisting of 50, or 100, or 1000 trees, it would only be a few 
of the outside trees that would suffer, while affording shelter to the rest. 
Now, Sir, in my opinion, this said “ Journeyman” either forgets, or does 
not understand, the nature of the tree upon which he writes. Is there on 
earth’s wide green surface, among all the varied tribes of trees, one which 
stands more firmly than the oak amidst the angry howl of stormy Boreas’s 
blast, or one that with equal bravery and native strength of stem stretches 
out his bare and rugged arms unscathed amid the tempest’s rage? This pro- 
perty is not acquired by age, but is innate and observable in an oak tree of 
any age. 

The third objection made by a “ Journeyman” is a misrepresentation. He 
says, I should find difficulty in supplying my six or eight shoots with an 
equalised quantity of nourishment. This is, by the way, a specimen of his 
attentive perusal of my paper. Pray, is any mention made therein of six or 
eight shoots? Can he not see that from four shoots, trained as I direct, 
eight knees can be obtained? “ Tell it not in the ‘ Carse of Gowrie,’ publish 


Retrospective Criticism. rhe 
it not in the streets of ‘ Inchture!’” Is it possible for any one to be so 

ignorant of the art of cutting up of wood as not to see the mode in which 

this may be done? For example, cut one of the branches through at five ft. 

from the stem, and the part taken off will form a knee or curve; and when 

the trunk is split up the middle, the half of the trunk, and the remaining half 
of the branch, will form another knee: thus, from four branches trained at 

right angles, and situated alternately on the trunk, each extending, say 10 ft. 

from it, eight knees or curves can be obtained; and this, I think, without much 

confusion. “ A Journeyman” cannot, however, comprehend this; and it is 

a great chance if he does so yet. Oh, no! he can see nothing but a mass of 
confusion, caused by his own six or eight shoots. He tells me that the two 

uppermost branches would have a strong pull for the advantage ; and why so ? 

The pear tree is an upright-growing tree, yet we do not find that there is any 

great inequality among the branches of a well-trained pear tree, neither are the 

uppermost branches strongest, but quite the reverse. 

The fourth objection is, that twigs, bent when young, will not keep their 
form; as trees and branches, when bent downwards from their natural position, 
have a strong tendency to rise upwards. I may here remark that no candid 
- reader will, I think, say that I recommend bending branches below their natural 
position. After this need I go on farther ? Really, Sir, the whole of the 
objections amount to nothing, and may be refuted in a few words. 

In every lawn in which there are old oak trees, instances occur of individual 
branches extending horizontally, to a far greater distance than I recommend, 
or than is necessary; and it was this fact that led me to think, that, by 
aiding nature a little, the number of such branches might be increased, and the 
form of the curves secured. Surely, there is nothing unnatural in this; par- 
ticularly with a species of tree so much inclined to shoot forth its branches in 
a horizontal direction as the oak ; although, after what a “ Journeyman’”’ has 
said, I do feel a little surprised that the wind allows any such habit. With- 
regard to what I intend for curves becoming only slight bends, the thing is 
impossible ; for whenever the curve is formed, and the shoot takes its upright 
position, the weight which the top will acquire, from year to year, will increase 
rather than diminish the bend. In relation to the very odd, original, and 
entertaining method proposed by a “ Journeyman Gardener,” for producing 
timber for future navies, I should like to know what extent of surface of 
plantation would be required, containing trees of stronger growth, to be 
employed as blinders; and how many miles of this outside row of crooked 
progeny would be wanted to build a 74-gun ship? It does not follow that 
seeds of a crooked variety should produce a crooked progeny. It is not so 
with the seeds of weeping ash; the same condition holds good among the 
animal and human tribes. This reply shall be the last, as it is the first, | have 
ever made to an anonymous attack. Iam, Sir, yours, &c. — James Munro. 
Brechin Nursery, Dec. 12. 1833. 

Mr. Whiddon’s Mode of cultivating Onions and Asparagus.— Sir, As Mr. 
Mitchell, in his answer (IX. 626.) to my remarks (IX. 323.), quotes Dr. 
Lindley’s Outlines of the Principles of Horticulture, I wish to refer him to 
Dr. Lindley’s Principles of Botany. n the latter work he will find passages 
which, in my opinion, do not at all coincide with some in theformer work. Mr. 
Mitchell requires from me a philosophical reason for my mode of cultivating 
plants. In compliance with his request, I will state, as far as I am able, the 
principles on which I act. I have always been taught that soils afford a fixed 
abode to plants, and are also the medium of the principal, if not the whole, 
of their sources of nourishment; that the earths of soils, exclusive of the 
organic matter which they contain, are of no other use than enabling the 
plant to fix itself; that the fluid matters of the soil are absorbed by the fibres 
of the roots, and carried up through the alburnum to the leaves, which are 
the lungs of plants, and which exhale a part of the water of the sap propelled 
to them, decomposing the remainder, and retaining carbonic acid gas, &c. 
For the purpose of decomposition, they-inhale atmospheric air, absorb carbonic 


16 Retrospective Criticism. 


acid gas in the night-time, and give out oxygen cue sunshine. These 
appear to me to be the opinions of the latest writers on the subject of vege- 
table physiology. Does it appear by them that the roots absorb atmospheric 
air from the soil? They do not. (See Phil. Mag., vol. xx. p.307.) Mr. 
Mitchell also says that my mode of culture will exclude moisture from the 
roots; but he must be aware that that excellent practical gardener, M‘Phail, 
recommends treading melon beds, to retain moisture. (Encyc. of Gard. § 3273.) 
have followed his recommendation, and have, in consequence, had crops 
superior to those of my neighbours. I am confident that better crops than 
mine were not grown even at Slapton. Mr. Mitchell seems to have a great 
respect for cooks who delight in “ sound rating and onion-throwing ;” but I 
think most of what will please my employer. — William Whiddon. Frost's 
Nursery, Leamington, Warwickshire,Dec. 29. 1833. 

In transplanting a Tree, we should place its Sides or Phases opposite those 
Points of the Compass which they faced before Transplantation. (1X. 580.) — C. 
M. W. but reiterates the practice described by Virgil in his Georgics, book ii. 
ver. 265. to 272.— Ephebicus Horticultor. Nov. 1. 1833. 

Mr. James Hart’s Notes on the Mode of cultivating Early Potatoes, which is 
practised in the Neighbourhood of Dublin. (1X. 589.) — Sir, Mr. Hart begins by 
asserting that “ persons have whole acres of potatoes rotting about Dublin 
every spring.” This is not true; and I challenge him to name instances of 
such wholesale failures. ‘“ The cause is assigned to every thing but the right 
thing.” Why, surely it will be conceded to us of the sister isle (confessedly 
low as we are in rural improvement) to understand the cultivation of the 
potato at least. ‘“ The Irishman’s mode of planting the potato is to cover 
the seed potatoes with dung in the drills to keep them warm, and to spreaa 
out the cut seeds, or sets, in the barn, to keep them from rotting: both acts 
have just the opposite effect with early potatoes.” I deny that either of these 
acts is injurious to early potatoes. If the potatoes have not been damaged, 
and if the sets are properly cut; that is, so as to have one or more eyes to 
each, it matters not whether they lie thinly on the floor, or are thrown up in 
a heap; but the former practice I always prefer. If Mr. James Hart had 
only asked a few questions of his neighbours in Mud Island, any of the old 
women there could have informed him that early potatoes are never planted 
in drills in the neighbourhood of Dublin, but in beds from four to five feet 
wide (called ridges in Ireland), which have deep alleys or furrows between 
them, and are, in appearance, exactly like the asparagus beds in the market 
grounds about London ; and that itis only the general crops, on a more exten- 
sive scale, that are grown in drills. It is unnecessary for me to make any 
remarks on Mr. Hart’s reasons for planting his potatoes “ over the dung,” and 
his would-be-learned lucubrations on the benefit of the atmospheric air. These 
need only be read to be rightly appreciated. Weare informed that “ air, heat, 
and water” (he has forgotten light) “ are the causes of vegetation, and air the 
mainspring.” Mr. Hart is also entirely mistaken when he says there is no 
advantage in “ planting potatoes earlier than the middle of March.” Let him 
visit Rush, Skerries, Malahide, &c., or any place in that portion of the county 
of Dublin called Fingal, and he will learn how and when early potatoes are 
obtained for the Dublin market. I can assure him that at present he is a 
mere novice in the art of growing early potatoes. I shall take my leave of 
Mr. Hart for the present; but strongly recommend him, before he commits 
himself again on this subject, to take a few lessons of his near neighbours the 
Mud Islanders, who are perfectly competent to instruct him in this branch of 
his profession. I must observe that Mr. Hart’s conclusion is in perfect 
keeping with his essay. He says: — “ If all this be observed,” meaning the 
information he has imparted, “ the early potato will be plentiful enough about 
Dublin next summer.” In the name of common sense, what does he mean ? 
I an, Sir, yours, &c. — Martin Rowan. Fulham Nursery, Dec. 19. 1833. 

Conditions under which Crops of Turnip Plants were, and were not, ravaged by 
the Beetle. (1X. 505, 631.) — Sir, I sowed seeds of the white Norfolk turnip 


Retrospective Criticisne. ue) 


upon a piece of ground previously manured with good moist horse dung, and 
trod in the seed well, Taiiiedstely after sowing; I also sowed at the same 
time some of the same seed upon another piece of ground a few yards distant, 
without either manuring or treading: the results were, in the former case, 
every plant escaped the beetle’s ravages; in the latter, three fourths of the 
plants were eaten off by the beetles. A friend sowed, in the usual way, seeds 
of turnip upon a piece of garden ground, and the plants were eaten off; 
he sowed a second and third time, with the same result; he then well 
manured the ground, sowed agai, and the whole escaped. Another gentle- 
man, a farmer, sowed part of a large field immediately after ploughing it, 
indeed following the plough; the remainder a few hours afterwards: the sun 
being bright all day. On the former the young plants all escaped, and on the 
latter the greater part of them were eaten off. This case was not one made 
by way of experiment, but was quite an accidental circumstance; a neigh- 
bour, however, noticing it, asked the proprietor the reason, but he was unable 
to explain it, or to state more than the facts already named. The gentleman 
who asked the reasen had himself tried liming the ground after sowing it, and 
sooting it in the same way; also sowing radish seed with the turnip seed, as 
severally recommended in different parts of your Magazine, but without the 
desired effect: in the latter case, particularly, he found that, after the beetles 
had eaten the radish plant, they attacked the turnips. 

I am of opinion that the only practicable and effectual preventive of the 
beetle’s ravaging the crops of turnips is to sow the seed when the ground 
is fresh and moist, and to roll it well, in order to preserve the moisture, 
manuring also with moist dung if possible; as it is observable, in the 
first case I have mentioned, that the moist manure and treading preserved 
the crop; in the second case, the moist manure alone; and in the third case, 
the fresh, and consequently moist, mould. I think also my opinion is farther 
confirmed by the fact, that a wet summer produces, generally, an abundant 
turnip crop, and a dry one the reverse. It would also appear that a moist 
day should be preferred for sowing turnip seeds, and if the weather should 
be so dry that sowing with moisture could not be farther adopted than by 
sowing immediately after the mould is turned and is consequently fresh, 
would not the application of the water cart have the desired effect? [In 
Encyc, of Agr. § 2692. 2d edit., will be found a figure and description of a 
machine for sowing turnips and watering them at the same time.] I may 
observe, that my opinion is founded upon a different principle to that sug- 
gested in IX.505.; and I would request the reader to remark that I do not 
say the plan I recommend will have the effect of destroying the beetles, but 
of preserving the crop. Rusticus of Godalming, as it appears by the extract 
in IX. 631., thinks that the eggs of the beetle are on the seed; but, if that be 
the case generally, I would ask, why, in the cases given above (the same seed 
being used for both plans in each case), were the plants not equally affected ? 
I do not ask this in the spirit of contradiction, but to stimulate your readers 
to farther examination on this very important subject. — Myles Priest. Reading 
Nursery, Dec. 12. 1833. 

In addition to our quotation, in IX. 631., from Rusticus, we shall here give 
another of his remarks : —“ I had always observed that there was the greatest 
quantity of grubs on very young plants, and that they were very various in 
size, and that it was not till the plants were a fortnight or three weeks old 
that the beetles appeared in any quantities; yet there were some beetles from 
the {very first coming up of the plant.” A writer in The British Farmers 
Magazine, for November 1833, p. 426., reviews Rusticus’s discovery, and 
applauds its great probable value, should it be proved to be true; but objects 
to Rusticus’s asserting that the young plants of turnips are more extensively 
ravaged by the grubs of the beetle than they are by the beetle itself, and con- 
tends that it is by the beetle itself that the injury and destruction are achieved. 
It may be well to remark here, that the grub of a beetle and the perfect beetle 
are in some species yery similar: we know not whether they be so or not in the 


80 Queries and Answers. 


turnip beetle. The remainder of the reviewer’s objections are included ii 
these words. ‘ Turnip-seed, committed to properly prepared ground, makes 
its appearance on the fourth day. Now, suppose that the eggs of the insects 
are attached to the seed, as is represented by Rusticus, is it probable that they 
can be transformed first into grubs, next into chrysalides, and lastly mto 
perfect beetles, in the short space of five, or six, or even fourteen days? This 
is for Rusticus to explain; and it is to be hoped that his description only is 
erroneous, not his doctrine.’ The same writer offers some strictures on 
Rusticus’s act of steeping in brine the seeds of turnip; but these, as he has 
misunderstood Rusticus, we need not notice. We have accurately given, in 
IX. 632., the experience of Rusticus, in his own words, on this point. — J.D. 


Art. VI. Queries and Answers. 


WaT are the Heat and Moisture best adapted for the Production of the various 
Fruits ? — Since too much dryness is certainly injurious, and too much moist- 
ure is generally believed to be so, what is the best medium of moisture for the 
flowering of the various descriptions of fruit trees? The horticulturist can, 
in a great measure, command temperature; and he knows, in regard to it, 
what to aim at: but moisture has been less attended to, at least as regards its 
quantity in measurable terms. The indications of the hygrometer ought to 
be attended to with as much care as those of the thermometer. Ought there 
not to be a series of experiments commenced, in order to determine the quan- 
tity of both heat and moisture best adapted for the production of the various 
fruits? —R. Turnham Green, Nov. 5. 1833. 

Plants, the Leaves of which will strike root. — 1 should like to see, in your 
Magazine, a list of those plants the leaves of which will strike root, and form 
plants ; such as Bryophyllum calycinum, Kalanchoe crenata, Gloxinia, A’loe, 
&e.— T. Rutger. Shortgrove, December, 1833. 

An Essay on variegated Plants, pointing out how Variegations are produced, 
and their Uses, if any, in ornamental Scenery, with Lists of the most beautiful 
variegated Trees, Shrubs, and Plants, is desired by Mr. Rutger, and also by 
T. G. and J. W. 

Self-acting Gate.— Might not a machine be contrived by which any interior 
gate of the approach (where it is necessary to have interior gates) could be 
opened on the passage of a carriage wheel over a certain part of it fixed on 
the road; the weight being made to act on some concealed portion of the 
machinery, by which the gate would be opened, and remain open sufficiently 
long for a carriage, &c., to pass, and then shut of itself? —T. A. B. Hasthwaite 
Lodge, Lancashire, Dec. 24. 1833. 

Parker’s sympathetic gate (jig. 8.) is of this description. On the approach 
of a carriage, the gate opens, apparently by its own volition, and closes again, 
after the carriage has passed through, without any apparent cause. The effect 
is produced by small plates let into the ground at short distances from the 
gate, which, when the carriage wheels roll over them, descend like a weighing 
machine, and act upon certain levers concealed in a trunk under the ground. 
By means of these levers, a toothed wheel is made to revolve, and to turn a 
toothed pinion affixed to the swinging post or axle of the gate, and thus to 
throw it open, or to close it. (Encyclopedia of Agriculture, 2d edit., § 3107.) 
' In the Encyclopedia of Cottage, Farm, and Villa Architecture will be found 
figured and described (§ 831.) a most valuable description of gate, for the 
lodges to the approach roads of country residences, which we would most 
earnestly recommend to the attention of master gardeners, land stewards, and 
country architects and builders. This gate ( fig. 9.) is the invention of 
Mr. Saul of Lancaster, and the object of it.is to enable the gate-keeper to 
open the gate in the night time, from his bed-room, without the trouble of 
dressing, or going down stairs. So benevolent a design ought to be seconded 
by every gardener. In fig. 9. g represents a horizontal shaft placed in a tunnel 


Queries and Answers. 81 


Wi MUM YL 


made across the road directly under the gate, working at one end on the heel 
of the hanging post by a pinion at 4, and at the other by a bevelled pinion at i, 
on the upright shaft 4. This shaft has a pinion which works into another at J, 
on the axle of which is the winch m, which is supposed to be at the bedside of 
the gatekeeper. (Encyc. of Cottage Architecture, § 831. See also VIII. 163.) 


_ Spontaneous Vegetation of Broom in a Wood after a Fire.—Sir, The follow- 
ing facts I can vouch for; perhaps they may excite enquiries not altogether 
unprofitable. About seven years ago, the branches broken off by the wind, in 
one of my plantations, being carried off, the twigs were gathered and burned. 
In a year or two, but where the ground was burned, and amidst the charred 
remains of the fire, some plants of the common broom (Spartium scoparium L., 
Cytisus scoparius Lé.) appeared, and grew vigorously. This seemed odd to 
me, and I showed them to some of my family; but the same burnings, and the 
same growth of the same sort of plants, have since been twice repeated. This 
I cannot account for by even the vaguest guessing. I am sure there were no 
broom plants among the small branches burned; and, if there were, the seed 
must have been consumed: in fact, we have only a very few plants of broom 
on the grounds. Then whence came the seed? For I do not believe in 
vegetabie creations in our times, though Ray seems to countenance something 
of that kind by his “‘ seminal tinctures” in the earth; and, even if the earth 
preserved the function to originate without parentage, fire does not seem to 
be the engine to effect such an operation. The fire weed in America, and 
other particulars of the same kind, will, of course, suggest themselves to you.— 
George Ensor. Ardress, Dec. 20. 1833. 

Grottoes at Painshill and Ascot Park.—You would confer an obligation upon 
myself and others of your distant subscribers, by giving detailed descriptions 


Vou. X.— No, 48. & 


82 Queries and Answers. 


accompanied by plans, of the so much admired grottoes at Ascot Park and 
Painshill; the latter of which (V. 569.) you say that you consider the finest 
in Europe. — 7. A. B. Esthwaite Lodge, Lancashire, Dec. 24. 1833. 

Plans of these grottoes, to be of any use, must be so large as not to suit our 
work ; indeed, it is hardly possible to convey useful practical ideas of grottoes, 
cascades, and similar rustic-work, by plans or sketches of any kinc. We 
recommend all who wish to form any such structures to visit, in company with 
an ingenious stone-mason, who should be employed to execute them, the best 
modeis, however distant they may be. Painshill will repay a journey from any 
part of the island. — Cond. 

Splitting the Roots of felled Trees with Gunpowder. —Sir, I observe this pro- 
cess going on in Kensington Gardens. Can you or any of your readers imform 
me if this is done on a principle of economy; or, if not, on what other prin- 
ciple it is preferred to the common mode of splitting roots with wedges ? — 
J.B. Kensington, January, 1834. 

Arranging the Colours of Florists’ Flowers. — Sir, Your recent remarks on 
taste, as it regards the variety of colours produced in the grouping of flowers, 
has induced me to look back to IL. 309. of your Magazine. I have long 
been inclined to the ideas there expressed, though I have never been able 
to carry them into full effect for want of materials. Bemg now, however, 
more fortunate in hyacinths, tulips, ranunculuses, &c., and particularly in 
chrysanthemums (of which I have nearly a perfect collection and a great 
number of plants), I intend to try the effect upon a large scale. But a know- 
ledge of colours and tints is necessary; for, although we may take the seven 
primary colours as a guide, yet the difficulty is to know where whites, blacks 
(which in hyacinths and ranunculuses we nearly have), browns, &c., should be 
placed. An elucidation, therefore, ef what you aptly term “ a natural system 
of colours” and tints (and, if accompanied by coloured figures, so much the 
better) would be of great use to many who, like myself, have neither 
milliners nor artists at hand to apply to. I therefore beg, as a favour, 
your assistance in this matter, and should be particularly glad to see the 
information in your February Number; as, early in March, chrysanthemums 
should be parted and planted. 

If you would fill up the sketch im the last paragraph at IT. 312., it would 
doubtless go far towards realising, at least in the rismg generation, your ideas, 
which seem founded on truth and nature. 

The colours of chrysanthemums are usually called pink, blush, white, buff, 
yellow, orange, brown, salmon, red, crimson, lilac, and purple (?). Yours, &c.— 
Solus. Bagshot Heath, Dec. 10. 1833. 

With regard to the difficulty of disposing of whites, blacks, and browns, in 
the arrangement of flowers, it may be adopted, as a rule sufficient for most 
practical purposes, that whites look well beside every other colour, even 
blacks and browns; that blacks look best next to greens, reds, and whites; 
and that the same will hold good as to browns. In arranging hyacinths in a 
bed, or chrysanthemums on a stage, all the varieties having the same colour 
for a ground should be placed together; for example, all the reds: but, to pre- 
vent the monotony that would result from salmon running into crimson, and 
crimson into lilac, there may be introduced between them streaks of white, and 
sometimes of black or brown, to keep up the harmony. It must be recollected: 
that, in arranging flowers according to their colours, something of botanical 
arrangement must also be kept in view. That is, all those varieties which 
appreach the nearest to each other must be placed the closest together. This 
may frequently be done, and harmony preserved, without the introduction of 
either whites or blacks; but, where it cannot, whites or blacks will afford the 
desired contrast. It is difficult, if not impossible, to give detailed directions 
on this subject without the aid of coloured plates; and, even in that case, 
much must be left to the taste and feeling of the operator. We would recom- 
mend our correspondent to store his mind with ideas on the subject from the 
works of Burnet, and of Phillips, on Painting; or, if these works be too 


“Queries and Answers. 83 


bulky for his purpose, we would recommend a small work, by a scientific 
house-painter, Mr. Hay of Edinburgh, entitled The Laws of Harmonious 
Colouring, §c., by D. k. Hay. If our correspondent possesses our Hncyclopedia 
of Cottage, Farm, and Villa Architecture, or even Part x11. of that work, he 
will there find (§ 2013.) how highly we think of Mr. Hay’s Essay ; and he will 
be able to conceive in what way it will be useful to him in the arrangement 
of his flowers. — Cond. 

Jasione perénnis, Houstonia cerulea, Gentiana vérna, and other Species. —I 
should feel greatly obliged, if Mr. Penny, or any other of your numerous 
correspondents, who have been in the habit of growing these plants, would 
inform me of the best mode of cultivating them; both in pots and in the free 
ground; the best soil and situation for them, and any other particulars 
respecting their culture, that may have come under their notice or observ- 
ation. I have frequently bought these plants of the London nurserymen, but 
in every instance they have very soon dwindled away and died. I have been 
told that a portion of coal-ashes is beneficial to the growth of Jasione perénnis : 
is this correct? An early answer to these questions will oblige a constant 
subscriber to both of your Magazines since their commencement, and an 
ardent lover of the beauties of Florakx—R.T. Jan. 1. 1834. 

Tree Mognonette.— In 1X. 232. Mr. Elles states that the common migno- 
nette may be grown to any height required, or at least to any reasonable 
height. He says, “ We have it here from 4 to 10 ft. high.” He furthermore 
goes on to state that he has one plant about 8 ft. in circumference at the base, 
&c. Now, I should feel greatly obliged to Mr. Elles, if he would take an early 
opportunity of informing me, as well as some others of the readers of this 
Magazine, of the method he pursues to obtain plants of Reséda odorata 
frutéscens, so decidedly superior to any plants of the kind that I have ever 
seen or heard of before. The plants I have grown have not averaged more 
than 3 ft. or 33 ft.—Zd. [See Elliot’s mode of culture, IX. 702.] 

Tree Mognonette. — Mr. Elles of Armagh writes (IX. 232.) that he had a 
plant of mignonette 10 ft. high and 8 ft. in circumference at its base. [should be 
glad to learn Mr. Elles’s mode of rearing the little darling to such perfection. 
Assuredly he has nursed the pygmy reseda into O’ Mignon, the celebrated Irish 
giant.— 7’. A. B. Easthwaite Lodge, Lancashire, Dec. 24. 1833. 

Grafting and Budding of Roses.—I\ am informed, upon respectable authority, 
that roses will not succeed by grafting them in the common way, but will take 
freely by rind-graftng. The scallop or French mode of budding has also 
been found to succeed well in spring.— R. T. Jan. 1. 1834. 

[The writer next makes some requests, and states some things as facts, 
which he ought to be aware can only receive attention from an Editor when 
accompanied by the writer’s name and address. In the mean time, he may 
refer to the new edition of our Encyc. of Gard., now publishing.] 

Gordonia pubéscens and Lasidnthus, Malachodéndron ovatum, and Big- 
nonia capreolata.— The most suitable culture for these plants is desired, as 
it regards soil, situation, propagation, &c. I have frequently bought the 
first three species mentioned, and as often lost them. Is peat soil indis- 
pensably necessary for their cultivation, or are they more tender than other 
common hardy shrubs, so that they require some kind of protection in 
winter? As far as Bignonia capreolata is concerned, I have no trouble in 
keeping or growing it; but, although I have had three plants for these ten 
years, I have never succeeded in flowering them. One Bignonia has been 
constantly kept in the stove in a pot, one in the green-house in a pot, and one 
planted outside of the green-house, and brought inside, and trained up the 
rafters; yet, with all this, I have never once flowered it during the whole of 
the above period. — Jd. 5 

Chrysanthemum sinénse and indicum.—I possess 40 varicties of these dc- 
lightful autumnal flowers, 38 of which I never fail to blow every year; but 
although I have had the yellow warratah, and the yellow Indian chrysanthe- 
mum, for some years, I have never once induced either of these to flower 

G 2 


84 Covent Garden Market. 


under any mode of treatment that I have pursued. Any information on this 
point would be desirable. — R. T. Jan. 1. 1834. 

Bérberis vulgaris aspérma.—Is there any such thing as the true stoneless 
berberry ? I perceive it is in the Horticultural Fruit Catalogue. I have re- 
ceived plants for it from various sources, but they have always proved, when 
grown in my garden, nothing but the common wild berberry. Is it only an 
_ accidental variety, that is apt to run back to its original state in particular 
soils and situations ?— Id. 

Taxus baccdta. — Is it necessary for the berries of the common yew tree to 
lie and rot one year before sowing, in the same manner as haws ?— Jd. 

Lemon Seeds.— Can any of your correspondents inform me, if the seeds or 
pips of a lemon be extracted from the pulp, and thoroughly cleansed, whether 
in this state they will retain their vegetative properties for two years; and, if 
they are found to do so, whether the seeds are not best kept in white sand till 
it is convenient to sow them ?— Id. 

On the best Mode of packing Peaches, Grapes, and Strawberries, to send to a 
Distance. — In answer to “ A Constant Reader’s” query on this subject (IX. 
723.), I beg to offer the following account of the modes I usually practise :— 

For peaches my plan is this: I procure a box of a size proportionate to the 
quantity of fruit that I wish to send, some tow, and some silver paper. I cut 
the paper into small squares, and place one square smoothly round each 
peach ; after this, I put a small quantity of tow carefully and evenly around 
the paper. Into the bottom of the box I put a thin layer of dried moss, on 
which I put the fruit as closely together as possible, and in the following 
manner: I pack two layers without anything more between them than the 
paper and tow which surround them; I then carefully support a thin board 
by three nails from the outside, so that the board may not press too much on 
the fruit below; this board forms a second floor, on which I pack two layers 
more; and so on. If melons are required, they may be closely packed in the 
lower chamber, or in the top part, if any vacant space remain ; but care should 
be taken to fill up any vacancy well with tow. 

Grapes I pack as follows: Into the bottom of a box I put a shallow layer 
of clean bran; I then place in closely a layer of bunches of grapes that are 
perfectly dry, and from which all the decayed berries have been carefully 
removed; I then strew in as much bran as will cover them, and so on till the 
box is filled; taking care to shake the box gently as I proceed, that the bran 
may fill up every crevice, and prevent the bunches from being displaced during 
their journey. The person who unpacks the fruit may easily clean away the 
bran, by blowing smartly through the bunches with a small pair of bellows. 

For packing strawberries, 1 provide a quantity of small upright wicker 
baskets made to hold from a pint to a quart each; I fill them by putting the 
fruit in very closely together as I gather it; I then tie the baskets down care- 
fully, and closely pack them in an upright position in a large flat basket made 
for the purpose. Strawberries, thus packed, will be quite fit to go to the table 
after one day’s journey; and it is advisable never to attempt to send this fruit 
to a distance which will require it to be two days on the road. 

I have practised the above modes for several years, and I shall continue to 
adhere to them until I am fully convinced that I can adopt better ones. Iam, 
Sir, yours, &c. —Thomas Wilson, Gardener to the Rt. Hon, the Earl De la Warr. 
Buckhurst Park, Sussex, Dec. 21. 1833. 


Art. VII. Covent Garden Market. 


THE Capacity of the Measures used in Covent Garden Market. — To the 
information given on this subject by Mr. Bevan (IX. 380.), that gentleman 
has since added the following : — 

There are four sizes of punnets, which leaves the capacity of this measure 
very uncertain, unless the particular variety is indicated. From Mr. Bevan’s 
experiments the greatest capacity of the 


Covent Garden Market. 85 


Cubic inches, Cubic inches. 


Sieve is + - - 1644 Largest punnet - - 248 
Half sieve - - 822 Second punnet - - 228 
Quarter sieve == - 362 Third punnet = - 90 

Least punnet - - 60 


But as, in mmactiees they may not be filled to the maximum, it may be inferred 
that, relatively to a bushel, the proportion will stand as follows : 


2 Sieves - - 1 bushel. 12 Large punnets - 1 bushel. 
4. Half sieves - 1 bushel. 16 Second punnets _1 bushel. 
8 Quarter sieves - 1 bushel. 32 Third punnets - 1 bushel. 


48 Least punnets - 


In other words, they may be considered as follows ; — 


Sieve equal to 
Halfa sieve - 
Quarter sieve 


4 bushel. 
1 peck. 
1 gallon. 


Large punnet - 
Second punnet - 
Third punnet - 
Least punnet - 


1 bushel. 


51 pints. 
1 pottle. 
1 quart. 
14 pint. 


(London and Edinburgh Phil. Mag., third series, vol. ii. p. 406. and p- 482.) 


‘The Cabbage Tribe. 
Cabbage, per dozen: 
Red 


Plants or Coleworts = 
Savoys - S 
Brussels Sprouts, per 2 # sieve 
German Greens, per dozen 
Broccoli, per WE ns 

White - - 

~ Purple - as 5 


Tubers and Roots. 
per ton 
Potatoes - ¥ per ewt. 
per bushel 
Kidney - =a 
Scotch 
Jerusalem Artichokes, per half 
sieve 
Turnips, White, per “bunch 
Carrots, perbunch - 
Horn 2 5 
Parsneps, per dozen - 
Red Beet, per dozen 
Skirret, per bunch | - 
Scorzonera, per bundle 
Salsify, per bunch - 
Horseradish, per bundle 
Radishes : 
_ Red, per dozen hands (24 to 
30° each) - 
White Turnip, per bunch 


The Spinach Tribe. 


per sieve a 
Spinach 8 er half sieve - 


Sorrel, per malt sieve - - 
The Onion Tribe. 


Onions: : 
Old, per bushel - 


For pickling, per half sieve 
Ciboules, green, per bunch 
Leeks, per dozen bunches - 
Garlic, per pound = 
Shallots, per pound - - 
Asparaginous Plants, 
Salads, &c. 
Asparagus, per100 - = 
Second size 2 . 
Middling - 5 
Sea-kale = . . 


Lettuce, Cabbage, per score 

Endive, per score - 

Celery, per bundle (12 to 15) 

Small Salads, perpunnet - 

Watercress, per dozen small 
bunches - = 


ooo oo ecoooecosco oocoe 


oocococo 


oS ocococoocoSo 


Be Orr tr 


SOeHOrRCOCOCOrF wrnmomoro 


om 


me to 


oooowd 


So SCOFCrt PCO 


SB WEARORSOS- 


SSSCeECORnEND WAWOSO 


wo 


ace 


COO 09 DO) 


SH ONHROAS g 


co cooco & 


ecece|ecessso cocoon 


oo 


ooo 


oocooooo 


oc ecoococoseso 


To 


R 


RtoO Rrmcuid 
Ao sooscSo 


Ge Here OSOOF wmwnoe 
SFAMWAWARWMR COSODMS 


o= 
on 


tor to 
COND 


SOR Oonf 
SCamnece’ 


ay 
So SF PNOCHWWRS 
SCOSOCAGCOSO 


ae 


Pot and Sweet Herts. 


Parsley, per half sieve - 
Tarragon, dried, per doz. bun. 
Fennel, per dozen bunches 
Thyme, per dozen bunches 
Sage, per dozen bunches’ - 
Mint, per dozen bunches - 
Peppermint, eds eeeeoran 
bunches 
Marjoram, Arica per doz. im, 
Savory, dried, per doz. bun. 
Basil, dried, per doz. bunches 
Rosemary, per dozen bunches 
Lavender, dried, per doz. bun. 
Tansy, per dozen bunches 


Stalks and Fruits for Tarts, 
Pickling, &c. 
Rhubarb Stalks, forced, per 
bundle . = 


"Edible Fungi and Fuci. 


Mushrooms, per pottle 

Morels, dried, per pound 

Truffles, per pound: 
English - 
Foreign, dried =e 


1 


Fruits. 


Apples, Dessert, per bushel : 
Nonpareils - 
Golden Pippins - 
Ribston Pippins = 
Golden Nobs” - 

Baking, per pestel 
American 

Pears, Dessert, per dozen 8 
Beurré d’Hiver S 
Ne plus Meuris - 
Bon Chrétien . 
Chapman’s 

Baking, per half sieve 

Almonds, per peck - 

Walnuts, perbushel - 

Chestnuts, Spanish, per peck 

Pine-apples, per pound - 

Grapes, per pound ; 

White Portugal - - 
Black Portugal <= a 
per dozen - 

Oranges per hundred - 

Bitter Oranges, per hundred 

per dozen - 7 

Lemons per hundred = 

Sweet Almonds, per pound 

Brazil Nuts, per bushel - 

Barcelona Nuts, per peck - 

Spanish Nuts, per peck - 

3 


reo ene 


C. 


From To 


eceooocoo coococo t& 
mo Peer orroe coro ¢ 
SAHSOWSoosSo ScOoSgococSO Q 
esssssso scoscosco & 
SWSSORSOSOSD woOwwoors & 


i=) 
— 
n 
o 
Go 


os OQ 
oo co 
oo coo 


ToMaons 
iT 
oon 


— 


a 


WAaADdNWUNODPORDS NWNOMTEAWAGD 


ee 
ODAASCHWORCOH OMA 


= 

ASCeSSSCUEoowono TOCSOHRSGRASCS cooococoo 
Boe eR 

ODO to P POOR 


_ 
oecoooceoesceoso cozocecoscoo gECOoOSoCO 


ooocecececoe oocotzococeoo ocooosccso 


SSSMASCSS SCOoSoCCOD A 


So 


oo co 


ecow~sceocescsos® cescoeoosso cceocoo 


86 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


Observations. —The unusual and uninterrupted openness of the season 
has enabled the growers to continue supplying the market regularly ; so that 
little fluctuation has at present taken place in the prices of vegetables, which 
have been brought in tolerable quantities, and of excellent quality. This has, 
in a measure, remedied the apprehended scarcity from the preceding dry 
weather in August, September, and October; so that foreigners, who visit 
our market, frequently observe that we experience here no difference in winter 
and summer; that we are equally well supplied in the different seasons with 
the respective articles, which with them is not the case. This is in a great 
measure true, but not altogether attributable to the causes which they assign, 
but rather to the extraordinary industry of the cultivators, and, I presume, 
the higher state of the art of horticulture, as practised here, compared with 
that where even the climate does so much to assist it. 

Forced asparagus is now becoming general, and of good quality: a fine 
specimen of it has been seen, imported from France, evidently under a different 
system of culture, as it closely resembles the new variety of Grayson’s in its 
natural state. We have yet to acquire the knowledge how this is to be 
obtained here. On referring to the Bon Jardinier for 1834, I find the plan 
described there, and it would, I think, be well worth inserting in your Magazine. 

Of sea-kale we have a good supply, of excellent quality; and, I believe, in 
this we stand unrivalled; for few foreigners, to this time, appear even to esti- 
mate its true value as a vegetable, and have not as yet brought it into culture 
generally. From our intercourse with France, the culture of it there is likely 
to become more general, as it is highly recommended to the attention of 
the public in the work referred to before. Broccoli has been furnished in 
tolerable abundance, and, should the present open season continue, will be so 
throughout the spring, as there appears to be a large breadth planted out 
late in the autumn. In no article has there been more evident improvement 
(from competition), most of the extensive growers having a variety or two 
peculiarly their own, effected by hybridising one or more good sorts. The 
supply of colewort cabbage has also been very general; and even in this 
article there is evident improvement, as most of the growers pay more attention 
to the variety in use for it. Formerly it was generally the large loose Battersea 
cabbage planted out for the purpose of bunching; now the dark-green Lan- 
cashire colewort is extensively cultivated, and gives to the grower an equal 
returr, as the quantity from an acre is quite equal to the former, from being 
planted closer in the rows. Turnips have been generally good; the late-sown 
crops rather small. Carrots, owing to the prevalent drought in the summer, 
have not been so fine as usual, but have been in moderate supply. Potatoes 
continue to be furnished in quantity of good quality, but maintain an equal 
price. This is, I believe, owing to the general deficiency of the crop. 

Apples are supplied altogether from our own growth; very few foreign have 
yet been imported, or are likely to be, as our own stock is yet very good: 
indeed, with tolerable seasons, we shall always have enough, as our plantations 
are now much more extended, and, from the introduction of so many new 
varieties, generally more productive. Of pears we have no supply at present : 
it will require time, care, and attention to effect a change in this article, equal 
to the present demand for it. — G. C. 


Arr. VIII. Supplement to the Notices of the Provincial Horticultural 
Societies for 1833. 


In our last Number (IX. 751.) we promised to give, in a supplement, all 
the notices of meetings of the provincial horticultural societies which might 
be sent to us between the middle of October, 1833, and January 1. 1834. 
We now redeem our pledge; and we are glad, at the same time, to notice 
some newly formed societies, which will be found mentioned under their 
proper heads. : 


- Bedfordshire, Berkshire, Cambridgeshire, Cornwall. 87 


ENGLAND. 


BeprorpsHirE. — Bedfordshire Agricultural Society. Oct.9. Some very 
large cabbages were shown by Samuel Crawley, Esg. M.P.; the heaviest of 
which weighed 40 lbs., and the lightest 30 lbs. (Weekly Dispatch.) 

Berxsuire. — Kindbury Florists’ Society. June 22. This show, limited to 
pinks, is remarkable for being the first pink show established in England. The 
present was its 54th anniversary. 

CAaMBRIDGESHIRE.— The Cambridgeshire Horticultural Society. Nov. 20. The 
prizes were given for grapes, apples, and pears, chrysanthemums, and culinary 
vegetables. Among the latter were two dishes of the O’xalis crenata, and it 
was stated that the stalks of this plant form an admirable substitute for those 
of rhubarb in pies and puddings. We, however, have tried them, and think 
them rather insipid, resembling vegetable marrow much more than rhubarb. 
A glass of honeycomb, taken without disturbing the bees, and weighing 14 Ibs., 
gamed a prize. This Society gives two distinct sets of prizes to cottagers: 
one for productions exhibited, and the other for the best cultivated gardens. 
Both cannot fail to do much good. (Cambridge Chronicle, Noy. 22. 1833.) 

Cornwat. —Royal Horticultural Society of Cornwall. Oct. 23. Sir Charles 
Lemon, the President of the Society, addressed the meeting, and expressed 
the pleasure he felt, again to see so beautiful an exhibition of flowers and fruit. 
Amongst the brilliant collection, it was impossible to pass over some beautiful 
specimens of exotics, grown in the open air by Mrs. Fox of Falmouth. 
Amongst the fruit there were some very fine specimens of pine-apples, &c.; 
and amongst the cottage articles several which proved that the attention of the 
Society to that branch of its objects had not been wasted. Miss Warren, 
whose name was already known as a benefactress to the Society, had contri- 
buted a collection of 330 specimens of indigenous plants, beautifully preserved 
and arranged ; and Miss Fox a collection of cryptogamous plants. He added, 
that the new heath which was discovered by a lady, five years ago, in the 
neighbourhood of Truro, had been lately found by Professor Henslow on 
Poole Heath, in Dorsetshire; and that the parish of Mylor, in Cornwall, con- 
tains, growing naturally, every species of English heath. He then exhibited 
Specimens of a variety of pinaster, the singularity of which consisted in the form- 
ation of the cone, which was longer than that of the common pinaster, and 
sharp at the points: its growth is likewise different, being in a zigzag form. 
A paper was read on this subject, at a Meeting of the Lendon Horticultural 
Society. (See Report, IX. 727.) Sir Charles concluded by saying, that, the 
close of the second season having now arrived, it was impossible to refrain 
from an expression of some surprise and pleasure that the Society had made 
such progress in so short a time. General and universal botany has received 
augmentations at its hands, by the new plants brought to our knowledge by 
members of the Society. The Gesnéria of Captain Sutton, which will in 
future bear his name, is determined to be a new species; and the same may 
be said of an Amarfllis, brought home nearly at the same period by Lieut. 
Holland, of the Royal Marines. Last year several new plants were brought 
into notice by members of the Society; such, for instance, as the Passiflora 
Sullivani, raised from seeds procured by Lieut. James Sullivan, R.N.; the 
Benthamia fragifera, &c. The lists of prizes were then read over. The col- 
lection of fruit was very extensive, comprising several handsome well-grown 
specimens of pine-apples, and a large assortment of grapes, melons, pears, and 
apples. Some white currants, raspberries, peaches, and cherries were also 
exhibited. Among the peaches we remarked a yellow-fleshed variety from the 
garden of S. S. Street, Esq., of Penryn. A dish of oranges, grown in the 
open air, without the aid of glass, attracted general admiration. The assort- 
ment of flowers was not so extensive as usual. A fine plant, in flower, of a 
species of Hedychium, from the garden of Michael Williams, Esq., of Tre- 
vince, was much admired. Although not a new plant, it is one which is seldom 
seen in such perfection. We were also pleased to see some of our favourite 
plants, such as Boronia pinnata, Polygala grandiflora, P. cordifolia, and Verbena 

G 4 


88 Prov. Hort. Soc.: — Devonshire, Essex, Leicestershire, 


vendsa. ‘Thirty-eight cottagers’ prizes were given; and Captain Parkyn, the 
honorary secretary, took occasion to notice the great improvement which had 
taken place in the gardens of this useful class of society. (Cornwall Royal 
Gazette, Oct. 26. 1833.) 

DevonsHirE. — North of Devon Horticultural Society. Oct. 9. The pre- 
vailing flowers displayed upon this occasion were the various kinds of the 
georgina which have found their way into this neighbourhood ; and these, of 
which there was almost an infinity of brilliant specimens, were most fancifully 
and elegantly disposed, agreeably to the varied tastes of their cultivators, in 
crowns, stars, and other devices. The letters R and F (Rolle and Fortescue), 
at the head of the room, were formed of oak leaves and acorns with much 
ingenuity. The entrance to the room, from the foot of the stairs, was pro- 
fusely dressed with evergreens and flowers. On looking at the fruit table, we 
were highly gratified to see the variety and quality with which it was stored. 
The pines and melons were of the finest description, both in size and flavour. 
There were peaches, plums, and almost every other kind of table fruit, in great 
perfection, and a large collection of apples and pears. A dish of grapes of the 
Black Hamburgh, grafted on the White Muscat of Alexandria, belonging to 
Mr. Griffin, was much noticed: the berries had altered their appearance, and 
assumed that of the grizzly Frontignac, but had not the flavour. The culinary 
vegetables, taken generally, far surpassed any we had ever before seen in this 
part of the county: celery, broccoli, peas, onions, potatoes, carrots, parsneps, 
&c., were all excellent. Mr. Burge, nurseryman, produced two superior speci- 
mens of mushroom vegetable marrow [?]; and there was a fine specimen, 
much admired, of Emmett’s Camberwell double-curled parsley, exhibited by 
R. W. Dickenson, Esq., of Ilfracombe. Every person, we believe, who took 
a view of the room appropriated to the cottagers’ use, will say that it merited 
a very large share of the praise bestowed upon the exhibition. (County and 
North Devon Advertiser, Oct. 11. 1833.) 

Essex. — Chelmsford and Essex Floral and Horticultural Society. Nov. 30. 
On this day thirty ladies and gentlemen, members of the Chelmsford and Essex 
Floral and Horticultural Society, paid a visit, by invitation, to the Hyde, the 
seat of J. Disney, Esq. F.H.S. R.S.A., and President of the above Society, 
to view his winter fruits, and were highly delighted with the various sorts of 
apples, pears, grapes, melons, &c., ali named and numbered according to Lind- 
ley’s arrangement. After viewing the same, the worthy president explained to 
the company the best sorts for cultivation, for table, and for culinary purposes ; 
and recommended the use of ornamental flower-pots, made by Mr. Christy of 
Broomfield, from models by himself, instead of the plain sort now used for 
rooms. [We should be glad to know where these pots are to be had or seen 
in London.] After viewing Mr. Disney’s excellent collection of seulptures, 
and some beautiful landscapes painted by Mrs. Disney, the company examined 
a chain bridge built from Mr. Disney’s own architectural design, on an entirely 
new plan. [We should be most happy to receive a sketch and some account 
of this bridge, for our forthcoming Architectural Magazine.| The president 
then pointed out the different trees in his gardens and grounds from which the 
fruits were gathered, with methods of keeping and pruning: he likewise re- 
commended the keeping of hedgehogs in enclosed gardens, for the destruction 
of slugs and snails. ‘The park grounds and walks appeared to be laid out 
with great taste and judgment. After above three hours’ stay, the company 
departed, highly gratified with the attention paid them by the worthy president 
and family. (Chelmsford Chronicle, Dec. 6. 1833.) 

LEICESTERSHIRE. — Leicester Horticultural Society. Sept.12. The fruit 
was in great abundance, and of excellent quality ; but the flowers were not so 
numerous as was expected, owing to the severe storms of the 30th and 31st of 
the preceding August. Some fine georginas were, however, shown, and many 
prizes were awarded. Mr. Warner was by far the most successful candidate. 

Melton Mowbray Florists’ Society. — May 24. This was the first show of 
the Society, and was entirely for tulips. The flowers were very fine, and were 
much admired. : 


Middlesex, Norfolk. 89 


Tamworth Horticultural Society. — May 1. This was the first exhibition of 
this Society also, and prizes were given for auriculas, fruits, and culinary vege- 
tables. Among the latter were some black and white Spanish radishes, exhibited 
by Mr. Buck, which were very much admired. 

Mrppuesex. — London. Meeting of Market-Gardeners. Dec. 10. A meet- 
ing of market-gardeners and others interested in the new markets of the 
metropolis was held this day at the Freemasons’ Tavern, and Mr. Wilmot 
was called to the chair. The secretary read “ the report of the sub-committee 
appointed at the last special general meeting of the Market-Gardeners’ Society, 
to ascertain the extent, accommodation, and tolls of the fruit and vegetable 
markets newly formed, with other matters connected therewith.” With refer- 
ence to the Portman Market, the report was altogether favourable. The com- 
mittee called the attention of the meeting to the extent of the yearly waggon 
and basket stands of this market; the width of its gangways (the two latter 
being secured from the weather by well-adapted coverings); the number of 
its shops, sufficient without excess, and those spacious and equal to a great 
share of business ; a casual market, which is closely attached; and, almost to 
an unlimited extent, commodious, extensive, and cheap stabling. The ap- 
proaches are good, as well as the roads; and all combine to secure attention 
and support. In adverting to the Hungerford Market, the committee say, the 
commedious size of the projected stands is highly deserving of the best atten- 
tion of the meeting, and particularly of those to whom room is a material object ; 
as a basket stand is not only joined to that of the waggons, but another, of 
considerable dimensions, directly opposite, on the other side of the gangway, 
may also be secured. Mr. Hutchins moved a resolution, that the projected 
accommodation offered by the Court of Directors of the Hungerford Market 
Company cannot be accepted on the terms proposed, viz. 15/. per annum for 
the rent of a cart and pitching stand. After some conversation, the resolution 
was carried unanimously. A great loss annually occurring to market-gardeners 
in and about the metropolis, from the non-return of baskets, sacks, &c., or 
their injury by carelessness on the part of the porters and others employed in 
the various markets, certain resolutions, having for their object a prevention 
of this evil, were put and carried unanimously. Thanks were voted to the 
chairman, and the meeting separated. (Morning Chronicle, Dec. 12. 1833.) 

Metropolitan Society of Florists and Amateurs. — Meetings are held at the 
Crown and Anchor Tavern, Strand, the first and third Tuesdays in every 
month, at six o’clock in the evening, to afford opportunities of giving any in- 
formation the members may think interesting, of proposing any thing they may 
consider advantageous, and of introducing any thing they may possess new. 
At such meetings, written communications, or papers upon the nature or cul- 
ture of flowers, or other matters connected with floriculture, given to the 
Society, will be laid before the members, proposals for new members received, 
and subjects relating to the objects of the Society discussed. 

At the meeting, October 9., it was resolved, “ That those of the Society 
who attend the meeting shall be allowed to present lists of any superior articles 
of stock they have to supply, and lists of any articles of stock they may 
require ; and that such lists, or so much thereof as the members presenting 
them wish, shall be inserted in the circular for the next meeting, and forwarded 
to the members as soon as possible.” It was further determined, “ That any 
member being in want of stock offered, or being able to supply the stock 
required, and forwarding a letter, postage free, to that effect to the chairman 
of the committee, at the Crown and Anchor Tavern, Strand, he shall be imme- 
diately referred to the parties concerned.” [We have seen eight lists of the 
description alluded to; five of articles offered, and three of articles wanted. 
The idea is good, and is worth adopting by other societies.] 

Norroitk.— The Launditch Norfolk Association for promoting industrious 
Habits among Servants, Cottagers, and Labourers. Oct. 30. The sum of 55/. was 
distributed in premiums of from 5s. to 5/. amongst forty-six individuals. 
Among the prizes were the following: — Onions: Edmund Dye of Mileham 


90 Prov. Hort Soc. : — Northumberland, Oxfordshire, 


erew 11 stone 64 lbs. on 15 yards of ground; and Thomas Gant of Litcham 
srew 18 stone 6lbs. from 24 yards. Potatoes: Thomas Ward of East 
Bilvey grew 7 bushels and 1 peck from a rod of ground, or what was equal 
to 388 sacks 2 bushels an acre, which at 4s. a sack, the present price of po- 
tatoes, would quote 77/. 14s. 8d. an acre. William Rawlinson of Lexham 
grew 12 bushels 33 pecks from 63 vards; and William Seaman of the same 
place grew 11 bushels from 57 yards. (Weekly Dispatch, Nov. 4.) 

NorTHUMBERLAND. — Newcastle Botanical and Horticultural Society. Oct.25. 
We particularly noticed 12 very large oranges, and 7 large shaddocks, grown 
in the garden of J. C. Anderson, Esq., Little Benton; and 21 sorts of pears 
from the garden of the Rev. J. Cook, Newton Hall, near Alnwick, for which 
silver medals were awarded extra; likewise a large Santa Cruz pine-apple, 
weighing 6 lbs., grown in the garden of William Russell, Esq., Brancepeth 
Castle. The articles shown were of the very first description. (Newcastle 
Courant, Nov. 2.) 

NorTinGHaMsHiIRE. — Nottingham Floral and Horticultural Society, Bromley 
House. A great number of prizes were distributed for georginas and fruits. 

OxForpsHirE.— Henley Horticultural Society was established, Noy. 4. 
1833, and a printed copy of its rules, &c., has been sent to us. Nothing can 
be more respectable than the list of patrons and patronesses, &c., and we 
need hardly add that we most sincerely wish it success. 

Oxford, Dec. 20. Mr. Wheeler has procured a dozen sorts of chrysanthe- 
mums from British seeds, said to be of great merit, which will be sold to the 
public next spring, as noticed in our advertising sheet. 

SoMERSETSHIRE. — Bath and West of England Agricultural Society. Dec. 17. 
This Society embraces territorial improvement generally; cluding planting, 
and, to a certain extent, gardening. At this meeting Captain Scobell and the 
Marquess of Lansdowne confirmed, from their own experience, the advantages 
of adding gardens to the cottages of the poor. The Marquess of Lansdowne 
observed, that, if the granting of an allotment to a labourer did not lead to 
his keeping a pig, it would not have attained its object. Mr. Hall submitted 
a new plan of fencing, the principle of which was, strength from position, 
rather than from substance. The usual system is to have perpendicular posts 
plunged 23 ft.in the ground; but, in the plan he now proposed, the posts 
need only be placed 8 or 9 inches in the ground. [We suppose, the ground 
plan of the fence must be zigzag in direction, and the posts inclined inwards ; 
but we shall write for particulars.] (Weekly Dispatch, Dec. 23.) 

Surrey. — Dorking Horticultural Society. Sept. 28. 1832. This was the 
first exhibition for fruit and georginas. The chief prize for the latter was 
gained by Mr. Wood of Deepdene. 

April 19. 1833. The principal objects of attraction at this meeting were, a 
new calceolaria, shown by Mr. Wood; and some apples, with an account of 
the mode of keeping them, by Mr. Lelliott. 

May 25. A new alstreemeria was shown by Mr. Scott. 

June 23. An extra-premium was given to Mr. March, for a collection of 
Spanish iris. 

August 27. This meeting was by far the largest. Mr. March showed the 
best pine, and Mr. Wood the best melon. Twenty-six prizes were distributed. 

Sept. 28. An anniversary meeting was held, and resolutions passed, illus- 
trative of the objects of the Society, which, it was stated, had then increased 
to 100 members. 

Sussex. — Newick Horticultural Society. Sept. 12. Nearly 500 productions 
were exhibited for competition. Among the plants sent by nurserymen were 
the following: — Mr. Cameron, Uckfield, exhibited a superb bouquet, for 
which he obtained the Society’s silver medal. It consisted of about 200 fine 
georginas, some fine German asters and a great variety of other flowers. 
The novelty of its form and its beauty were much admired. Mr. Cameron 
also presented twenty sorts of apples selected from 150 of the most approved 
varieties, and numerous plants im flower. He presented a specimen of the 


Somersetshire, Surrey, Sussex, Warwickshire. YI 


six weeks’ turnip, and also a sample of the Maltese turnip: the former was 
considered deserving the attention of the agriculturist, from its hardy nature 
and the quickness of its growth. The peaches which obtained the first and 
second prizes were from trees furnished by Mr. Cameron a few years ago. — 
Mr. Wood of the Woodlands Nursery, Maresfield, exhibited about 100 pots 
of fine plants; nearly 200 sorts of georginas, which were much admired; a 
very splendid collection of China and Noisette roses, and 150 sorts of apples 
and pears. He also exhibited about 100 vases of cut flowers, and a variety 
of specimens of curious oak, ash, alder, elm, &c. The flowers were remark- 
ably fine, and were very much admired. Mr. Mitchell of Piltdown exhibited 
a fine collection of heaths, with some stove and green-house plants, georginas, 
and German asters. A splendid seedling georgina, upwards of 5 inches in 
diameter, raised by Mr. Read, was greatly admired, and received the name of 
Lord Abergavenny. Mr. Pierce of Piltdown exhibited some fine plants of 
the Wistaria Consequana ; a collection of fruits, including several varieties of 
filberts, nuts, &c.; some beautiful French and African marigolds; and a 
splendid bouquet, for which he obtained the Society’s silver medal. (Sussex 
Advertiser, Sept. 16. 1833.) 

WarRwicksaIRE.— Birmingham Botanical and Horticultural Society. Through 
the kindness of Messrs. Pope and Sons, we have been favoured with an account 
of several meetings of this Society, which had not before been sent us. We 
regret to say that we received Messrs. Pope’s parcel too late to allow us to 
do more than give a very cursory notice of its contents. 

July 17. and 18. The plants were exhibited in a temporary erection, 80 ft. 
by 20ft., on a fine terrace in the garden, and marquees were erected for the 
company on the extensive and undulating lawn below. Above 3000 persons 
were present, including all the nobility and gentry in the neighbourhood. 
Numerous fine plants were exhibited, and the general brilliancy of the scene 
exceeded all description. (Aris’s Birmingham Gazette, July 22. 1833.) 

Sept. 18. and 19. This show was also very brilliantly attended. The stove 
plants, the georginas, and the fruit elicited warm admiration. The vegetables 
were so numerous, that they were exhibited in a separate tent. (Jbdid., 
Sept. 23. 1833.) 

Oct. 16. and 17. The prize for the rarest plants in flower was gained by 
Messrs. Pope and Sons, who exhibited Nierembérgia intermédia, Portulaca 
grandiflora B. M., Portulaca Gilliésti Hook., Selago Gilliésti Hook. (Jbid., 
Oct. 21. 1833.) 

Deritend and Bordesley Floral and Horticultural Society. — It should be ob- 
served, that Deritend and Bordesley are extensive and populous suburbs of 
Birmingham ; and that a gentleman residing in Bordesley, Mr. Kendall, was 
chiefly instrumental in establishing this Society. The principal objects aimed 
at are, to encourage horticulture and floriculture in a populous district, and to 
disseminate useful information and new plants among all who possess a fond- 
ness for horticultural pursuits. To render the Society as useful as possible, a 
portion of its funds are set apart for the purpose of giving prizes to such 
cottagers and artisans (subscribing each 2s. 6d. per annum) as shall exhibit. 

May 2. This was the first meeting of the Society, and a number of articles 
were exhibited. Some of the most beautiful plants were from the stoves and 
gardens of Mr. Kendall, Mr. Willmore of Oldfield, and Messrs. Pope and Sons. 
Among the vegetables were some heads of asparagus, forced by Mr. Kendall, in 
four days, by hot water. 

May 30. This was the second show of the Society, and the first at which 
prizes were given to artisans: eleven of these prizes were distributed ; three 
of which were gained by one individual, Mr. C. Hopkins. A number of beautiful 
plants were lent by the Botanical and Horticultural Society; a pleasing proof 
of the harmony subsisting between the two Societies. (Birmingham Journal, 
June 1. 1833.) 

June 20. A remarkably fine display of roses was sent by the Earl of Brad- 
ford; and a Gloridsa supérba, from the stove of John Willmore, .Esq., of 


92 Provincial Hort. Soc. s — Wiltshire, Yorkshire, 


Oldford, was much admired. Twenty-two prizes were given to artisans; and 
the stand devoted to the articles exhibited by this class presented a most 
gratifying display. (Aris’s Birmingham Gazette, June 24. and July 1. 1833.) 

August 1, Carnations, georginas, and gooseberries were the principal articles 
exhibited. There were twenty-one artisans’ prizes. The largest gooseberry, 
the Roaring Lion, weighed only 21 dwts. 12grs. (Jdid., August 12.) 

Sept. 12. A superb crown of georginas, from the gardens of Messrs. Pope 
and Sons, excited great admiration. Twenty-five prizes were given to artisans ; 
among the names of the successful competitors, we observe that those of 
Amos and Chaplin occur most frequently. (Birmingham Journal, Sept. 1. 1833.) 

Nov. 21. This was perhaps the most brilliant exhibition of the season. 
The chrysanthemums, the stove and green-house plants, and the splendid col- 
lection of fruits (the latter exhibited chiefly by Mrs. Wakefield), vied with each 
other in exciting admiration. Only ten artisans’ prizes were given. (Birming- 
ham Advertiser.) 

Wixtsuire. — Salisbury Annual Pink Show. June 21. Some very fine 
flowers were exhibited ; and prizes were gained by Messrs. Squib, Chinn, and 
Bowden. 

Yorksuire&. — Barton Georgina Show. Oct.7. Mr. William Biown of 
Mount Pleasant, seedsman, exhibited a very splendid collection of georginas, 
in the shop of Mr. Hattersley, druggist, which was visited by hundreds of the 
inhabitants of the town and neighbourhood, who expressed their high gra- 
tification at the interesting sight. A remarkably fine bouquet, which com- 
pletely filled the window, called forth especial admiration. This is the second 
exhibition of the kind in Barton, but it is by no means likely to be the last. 
(Hull Advertiser, Oct. 11. 1833.) 

Doncaster, Retford, and Bawtry Horticultural Society. — Sept. 24. The show 
of fruit and vegetables, particularly of the former, was very extensive, and in 
point of size extraordinary. These occupied one table; on another the plants 
were arranged, and on the right the georginas displayed their varied and 
splendid beauties. Although the season for the cultivation of these elegant 
flowers has on the whole been so unfavourable as to warrant the expectation 
that in this respect the exhibition would be defective, the reverse of disappoint- 
ment was experienced ; and, as the eye glanced along the stage which supported 
them, the contrast presented by the varied hues was striking and truly grati- 
fying. During an exhibition of this nature, there is one subject which cannot 
fail to strike the attention of the observer: viz. the degree of perfection which 
can be attained by the application of skill and labour in cultivation. As the 
importance of this is fully manifest, the encouragement of societies of this 
description is the means of conferring gratification and benefit upon the com- 
munity at large. (Doncaster, Nottingham, and Lincoln Gazette. Sept. 27. 1833.) 

Hull Florists’ Society. — Oct. 7. Thedisplay of georginas was most splendid. 
The flowers, of which there were some hundreds, were in the highest state of 
perfection, and imbued with the richest hues. From the testimony given on 
this occasion of the ability of the florists of this town and neighbourhood to 
cultivate the georgina, we are induced to believe that they are capable of com- 
peting with any other society of the kind in the kingdom. Few other articles 
were exhibited. (Hull Advertiser, Oct. 11. 1833.) 

Dec. 23. This show was for chrysanthemums, and some remarkably fine 
flowers were exhibited. Among the names of the chrysanthemums exhibited 
we observed the following, which we cannot find either in the Hortus 
Britannicus, or in Mr. Haworth’s excellent paper on chrysanthemums in this 
Magazine (IX. 218.). Pak tseen yong Kokfa, and yung sham hong Kokfa, 
Mr. D. Brown; white velvet, expanded light rose, and imperial hlac, Mr. 
W. Dennis; tufted yellow, and quilled red, Mr. T. D. Dobson; golden- 
fringed yellow, Mr. Priest; dark crimson, Mr. Robert Oglesby; shining- 
fringed white, embroidered yellow, and dark orange, Mr. Hodgson (gardener 
to H. Blundell, Esq.); golden-feathered yellow, tall strong-scented rose, im- 
perial red, Spanish crimson, and superb orange, Mr. Anderson; Dutch pink, 


Wales. 93 


Cox’s buff, and quilled brown, Mr. Wharton. We hope that cuttings of these 
sorts, supposing them to be really new, will soon find their way to the London 
Horticultural Society, and thence, with proper names, to the commercial 
gardeners throughout the country. 

Sheffield Horticultural Society. — Sept. 25. Georginas formed the floral part 
of the exhibition, and the display was most superb and extensive. One of the 
townsmen was particularly successful in carrying off prizes for this description 
of flowers, and another of them produced a seedling of a darker colour than 
any yet grown, and so remarkable for beauty and accuracy that it will not be 
easily surpassed. A beautiful design, formed of georginas, a representation 
of the Wharncliffe arms, was prepared by Mr. Harrison. Our attention was 
also arrested by a splendid leaf of the talipot tree. His Grace the Duke of 
Devonshire was a very extensive and most successful contributor to this exhi- 
bition. In fruit there was nothing so rare and estimable as the Ispahan 
melon. The grapes were truly excellent, and so were the pines. In vegetables 
we have never seen finer endive or better cucumbers, and the celery was of a 
first-rate description, as well as the broccoli and savoys. In fact, without 
descending farther to particulars, we may safely affirm that a better exhibi- 
tion will not occur this year in England. This is but the third year of the 
Society’s existence, and yet it can vie with any similar institution in its pe- 
riodical displays. We are happy to observe a decided improvement every 
year. (Sheffield Iris, and Weekly Dispatch, Sept. 30.) 

Some of the heads of celery exhibited at the August show measured 3 ft. 
6 in. in length, and 9 in. in circumference, after the outer leaves were 
stripped off. (Weekly Dispatch, Sept. 30.) 

We understand that the subscribers to the Sheffield Botanic Garden increase 
daily, and that there can be no doubt of its being speedily carried into exe- 
cution. (Jdid.) 


WALES. 


Glamorgan and Monmouthshire Horticultural Society. — Sept. 25. No pines 
were exhibited; the nobility and gentry in the neighbourhood having “ con- 
curred in the exclusion of those costly and luxurious productions, in order to 
allow of larger and more numerous prizes being granted to industrious cot- 
tagers.”’ Among many new varieties of apples and pears lately introduced into 
Glamorganshire, a Marie Louise pear, exhibited by John Moggridge, Esq., of 
Gabalva, excited great admiration. Mr. Miller of Bristol sent some very 
fine georginas and German China asters. 

Swansea and Neath Horticultural Society.— Nov. 28. The room was orna- 
mented with a good collection of chrysanthemums, interspersed with choice 
flowers and some fine winter fruit, especially apples. We mention this, as we 
consider it as proving the capability of this country to produce apples equal to 
any county in England, certainly for a space of nearly 30 miles. The apples 
from Yniscedwyn satisfied every wellwisher of horticulture, that, even so high 
up the valley, the coldness was no barrier to their full maturity; and at this 
meeting the apples from Fairy Hill, beyond Cefn Bryn, called forth the appro- 
bation of our best gardeners, and gratified every amateur present. The speci- 
mens sent by the Rev. S. Phillips (12 m number) were well ripened, formed, 
and coloured; and we judge (and, we think, accurately) that from the lower 
part of Gower to nearly the top of the Swansea Vale there is hardly a spot 
on which the apple might not be planted with profit. We are glad to hear 
the Society purposes giving additional prizes to cottagers of young and valuable 
trees, provided they can show their means of planting them; the thought is 
pleasing: and we hope this Society, in a few years, will be awarding prizes for 
the fruit grown on trees planted by its instigation; thus demonstrating that 
there is more in it than merely collecting flowers, fruit, and vegetables, to 
gratify the eyes of the subscribers for the day. The Chaumontel pears from 
Sketty Hall and Singleton, and the Ribston pippins-from Heathfield, deserve 
the highest praise. These last were part, we believe, of 400 gathered from 


94: Provincial Horticultural Societies : — Scotland, 


one tree, and were superb fruit. We think we are correct in saying that Mr. 
Calvert Jones was the gentleman who introduced the Ribston pippin into this 
county, upwards of 40 years ago. Twenty-two cottagers exhibited flowers, 
fruit, and vegetables, for rewards, in the year, and they received amongst them 
56 prizes, amounting to 9/.5s. Last year there were but 13 exhibiters, and 
the amount of their prizes was 4/. 10s. (Cambrian. Nov. 30. 1833.) 


SCOTLAND. 


FiresHire. — The Dunfermline Ancient Society of Gardeners is among the 
most ancient horticultural societies in Scotland; its first minute is dated 
Oct.16. 1716; and among its members it has possessed one duke, one marquess, 
six earls, seven lords, eight knights, two colonels, six captains, three lieu- 
tenants, four ensigns, one professor, six ministers, seven advocates, two writers 
to the signet, twenty-one doctors and surgeons, and one hundred and ten 
gentlemen of landed property. This enumeration will serve as much as any- 
thing to show the estimation in which it was held in its early days: and we 
find on the 10th of October, 1722, the following subject for an essay given 
out to David Bowie, gardener: — “ On the circulation of the sap in vege- 
tables, and a reason why brambles, allars (alders), and sallows are of such 
large pith, and put forth larger growth the first year than those of smaller 
pith, such as oaks, box, &c.” Nothing more is said than that the thanks of 
the meeting were given to the orator. How Mr. Bowie acquitted himself we 
can only guess: the subject given him would be a puzzler to the vegetable 
physiologists of the present day. We likewise find that there were committees 
of this Society held in Edinburgh and Cupar; from which it would appear 
that there were at that time no horticultural societies in these towns. (Scots- 
man, July 6. 1833.} 

_ At the October meeting of this Society, prizes were awarded for vegetables 
and fruit as follows:— Carrots: for the heaviest 3, which weighed 7 lbs. 
10 oz., Mr. Fowlis, Fordel; for the next 3, 7lbs., Mr. Hogg, Pitfirrane : — 
Apples: 3 Yorkshire Green, weighing 2 lbs. 50z.; 3 Stoup Leadingtons, 1 lb. 
150z.; 3 Gansel’s Bergamot pears, weighing 2 lbs. 14 oz.; the largest one 
133 oz., and measuring in circumference 114 inches; the largest apple mea- 
suring 124 inches in circumference. Mr. John Reid, Pittencrieff, exhibited a 
bottle gourd, weighing 15} ]bs. (Jbid. Nov. 20. 1833.) 

The Kirkaldy Horticultural Society was established on the 1st of August, 1833, 
by twelve practical gardeners. Their first meeting was held Sept. 12., when 
seventy members were present (chiefly amateurs), and prizes were awarded 
for a great number of floricultural and culinary articles. The prize schedule 
for 1834 enumerates the article for which prizes will be given, and concludes 
with the following excellent subject of competition for young gardeners : — A 
prize will be given to “ the apprentice or journeyman gardener, employed by 
any member of the society, who produces the largest collection of species 
(excluding varieties) of British or exotic plants, gathered and dried in flower 
or fruit, and named and arranged according to the natural system: the collec- 
tion to be delivered to the secretary before the Ist of September, accompanied 
by a sealed note (motto outside), enclosing the address of the competitor, and 
a declaration that the plants were gathered by him since the 24th of September, 
1833. The collections to be returned.’ — John Sang, Sec. 

LANARKSHIRE. —Glasgow Horticultural Society. June 21. Several specimens 
of the choicest flowers were shown, the vegetables were early, and excellent ; 
and the fruits were of the finest quality. A new and splendid amaryllis from 
the botanic garden, and some very fine May duke cherries, from Erskine 
House, excited much attention. The latter did great credit to the very 
excellent gardener, Mr. Shiells. 

Mip-Lotuian. —Edinburgh Horticultural Society. Dec. 12. The secretary 
exhibited several large blanched specimens of the prickly cardoon, or cardon de 
Tours, from the garden of Thos. Guthrie Wright, Esq., Duddingstone Cottage 
(My. John King, gardener), and stated that the blanching had been accoms 


freland. 95 


plished by using hypnum moss in place of straw ropes, the former material being 
preferable, as communicating no bad flavour to the cardoon, The Society’s 
premium for the best collection of seeds of evergreen trees and shrubs saved in 
Scotland was given to Mr. John Street, gardener at Biel, who sent a parcel con- 
taining considerable quantities of common laurel, Portugal laurel, and laurus- 
tinus, with small quantities of the seeds of Chinese arbor vitae and sweet bay. 
Very fine bunches of black Hamburgh and white muscadine grapes were then 
placed on the table, the produce of a flued wall at Erskine House garden, 
without the aid of glass, and gathered on the 4th inst. (See VIII. 671.) 
A letter from Mr. George Shiells was read, mentioning that the family had 
been supplied with such grapes since the end of October, and that there were 
still about thirty bunches remaining.— The committee, lastly, called the 
attention of the meeting to several excellent articles, both fruits and roots, 
the produce of the Society’s experimental garden, which did great credit to 
Mr. Barnet as a cultivator; and to a collection of Chrysanthemum indicum in 
flower, remarkable for the dwarfish size of the plants, grown in this way by 
Mr. Handasyde of Fisherrow. There was also a cluster of sweet oranges 
from the garden of Count Flahault, at Tulliallan, where six had been pro- 
duced on a plant 2 ft. high. A communication was read to the meeting on the 
forcing and blanching of Buda kale, by Mr. James Mackintosh, gardener at 
Archerfield. The kale are planted in boxes, which are introduced successively 
into the mushroom-house, where the kale are at once forced and blanched 
(light being excluded), while the production of mushrooms is not interrupted. 
(Weekly Dispatch, Dec. 16. 1833.) 

STIRLINGSHIRE. — The agricultural exhibition of Messrs. Drummond of 
Stirling, noticed in our preceding volume (p. 44:7.), is continued annually, and 
goes on prosperously. Similar exhibitions haye been opened at Edinburgh, 
by Mr. Lawson, seedsman there; and at Perth, by Messrs. Dickson and Turn- 
bull. The local benefits which will result from these exhibitions are immense. 
We should think they will be found to have as great an effect on the agricul- 
ture of their vicinities, as the publication of the Farmer’s Magazine, in the 
beginning of the present century, had on the agriculture of the Lowlands of 
Scotland generally. 


IRELAND. 


Ballinasloe Horticultural Society. — Aug. 14. For fruit, flowers, and vege- 
tables: the latter were remarkably fine. There were several cottagers’ 
prizes; Martin M‘Niel, and Dalton Kelly were the most successful among 
the cottage competitors. (Dublin Evening Mail, Aug. 26. 1833.) 

Connaught Horticultural Society.— Oct. 12. This show was principally for 
fruit and vegetables. Among the latter were 12 heads of celery exhibited by 
Mr. Johnstone, gardener to the Earl of Clancarty, which weighed 54 pounds. 
One of carrots, exhibited by the same gardener, weighed 4 lbs. 2 oz. (Galway 
Advertiser, Oct. 19. 1833.) 

Cork County and City Horticultural Society. — Dec. 16. A very numerous 
meeting of the nobility and gentry of the neighbourhood assembled to establish 
this Society. Major Beamish concluded an eloquent speech as follows : — 
“ T trust that the country gentlemen, that the landed gentry of the county, 
will come forward with enlightened minds and liberal pockets on this occasion. 
They are, of all classes of the community, the most interested in the pro- 
motion of horticultural societies. By these means it is that the cultivation of 
land and the breed of cattle are improved, old and injudicious practices 
abolished, good systems of farming introduced, and the farm brought, as it 
ought to be, as nearly as possible, to the condition of the garden. By these 
means, also, are order, cleanliness, and industry, which are inseparable from 
good farming, induced among the small holders and peasantry ; agricultural 
profits increased, and the wealth and happimess of both the owner and occu- 
pier of the soil promoted; while the scientific myestigations to which the 


96 Obituary. 


advancement of these noble objects must necessarily lead, will teach us all 
how to 
‘ Find tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, 
Sermons in stones, and good in every thing.’ ”’ 


(Cork Evening Herald, Dec. 20. 1833.) 

Kilkenny Horticultural Society. — Nov.7. We are extremely happy to find 
that a horticultural society is about to be established at Kilkenny, under the 
auspices of our scientific and much esteemed correspondent, Mr. Robertson, 
nurseryman there; whose valuable papers, both in the Horticultural Transac- 
tions and in this Magazine, must be well known to our readers. A newspaper 
(Kilkenny Journal, Novy. 16.) has been forwarded to us, containing the rules of 
this Society, and we have no doubt but that it will contribute very essentially 
to the promotion of horticultural and botanical knowledge in that part of 
Treland. 


Having now given such slight notices as our limits will allow, we cannot 
conclude this article without reiterating our satisfaction at the very general 
increase of horticultural and floricultural societies ; the rapid distribution of 
new plants; and the great improvement which has taken place in the gardens of 
cottagers. Our indefatigable correspondent, Mr. Saul, informs us that the 
largest gooseberries grown this year are the Ked Wonderful, 27 dwts. 17 grs., 
grown at Ormskirk, by Mr. Ralph Moon; the Yellow Gunner, 25 dwts. 
2 grs., at Chester, by Mr. Coppack ; the Green Peacock, 23 dwts. 4 grs. 
at Houghton Lane, by Mr. John Wood; and the White Eagle, 23 dwts., 
grown at Hooley Hill, by Mr. William Williamson. Mr. Saul adds, that 
the largest gooseberry grown in 1832, as the before stated (IX. 98.), was 
a green one, Bumper, which weighed 30dwts. 18 grs. (above an ounce and 
a half); a size which no gooseberry has this year attained. Those who are 
desirous of seeing more minute details of the fruits and flowers shown in 
Lancashire and the adjoining counties will find them in the Florists’ Gazette, 
published annually at Manchester, price 3s.— J. W. L. 


Art. 1X. Obituary. 


Diep, at Kingsmeadows, Peebleshire, on August 28. 1833, Mr. Sherare, 
aged 78 years. He had lived as gardener at Kingsmeadows 33 years. His 
health had gradually declined through the last eighteen months of his life, and 
he expired without, apparently, suffering much pain. His son, a young gar- 
dener, who has a good knowledge of chemistry, and is one of our most 
promising correspondents, after stating the above facts, adds, “ I have now 
neither father nor mother, brother nor sister: all are gone to their ‘ long 
home ;’ while I, the youngest of seven, am left behind to mourn their loss.” 

Died, at Brentford, November 22. 1833, in the same house in which he was 
born, Mr. Hugh Ronalds, nurseryman and seedsman, aged 74 years. The 
Brentford Nursery was established, nearly 100 years ago, by the father of the 
late Mr. Ronalds; and it continues, and we hope will long continue, in his 
excellent family. The late Mr. Ronalds was a most amiable man and a warm- 
hearted friend, and was enthusiastically fond of his profession. He was well 
skilled in fruits, especially apples, as is evinced by his Pyrus Malus Brent- 
fordiensis, beautifully illustrated by drawings from nature, on stone, by his 

_ daughter Elizabeth ; and he had great skill in raising flower seeds, for which 
the nursery has been long celebrated. From the ardent admiration which we 
have heard Mr. Ronalds express for Pain’s Hill, Esher, and other fine old 
specimens of modern landscape-gardening, we are convinced that, had he turned 
his attention that way, he would have displayed superior taste in laying out 
grounds. 


ed 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
APRIL, 1834. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Art. I. Notes on Gardens and Country Seats, visited, from July 27. 
to September 16., during a Tour through Part of Middlesex, Berk- 
shire, Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire, Wiltshire, Dorsetshire, Hamp- 
shire, Sussex, and Kent. By the Conpnuctor. 


(Continued from p.7.) 


Nonewam CourTen4y, «a Seat of the Archbishop of York, is a 
place which has long been celebrated. We first saw it in 1804, 
when we visited it in the course of our walking tour. The 
orangery, and the flower-garden laid out by Mason, were then 
in great perfection. The roof, front, and two ends of the orangery 
were movable; and the orange trees, being planted in the soil, 
when the frame was removed, and the ground turfed over, 
appeared as if growing in the open lawn. ‘The trees were then 
in vigorous growth, and covered with flowers and fruit. These 
trees no longer exist, having been destroyed, partly through 
the difficulty of heating the house in the winter season; but 
chiefly, as report states, through the carelessness of the gar- 
dener, who succeeded the worthy old man who had charge of 
them in 1804. ‘The present gardener, Mr. Brodie, informed 
us that he had seen pieces of the trunks of these trees nearly 
1 ft. in diameter. ‘The flower-garden is now overgrown with 
elms and other common trees; the number of the flower-beds is 
reduced, and the shapes of most of those remaining have been 
altered. ‘The covered seats are either removed, or in a dilapi- 
dated state, and the same may be said of the statues, busts, and 
therms. Nevertheless, we recognised the scene at once, by the 
three low arched entrances of a small summer-house. This 
spot is no longer fit for growing flowers, from its being now 
too much under the shade of lofty trees. Extensive architectural 
alterations have been made in and about the house and offices, 
and improvements in the kitchen-garden have just been com- 
menced, by doing first what is too frequently left to be done 
Vou. X.— No. 49. H 


98 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats: — 


last, viz. building a good gardener’s house. As it rained fast 
during the whole of the time we were here, we had little oppor- 
tunity of examining things in detail. Nevertheless, we saw at 
a glance that the handsome terrace which has been added in 
front of the house is badly contrived, with reference to its con- 
nection with the pleasure-ground ; a proof, in addition to those 
which we are continually observing, of the necessity of villa 
architects having a general knowledge of landscape-gardening. 
The direct fault of this terrace is, that the outlet from it to the 
grounds is badly placed. ‘The terrace ought to have been re- 
turned at the south end, and the outlet so arranged as that the 
waik proceeding from it should have advanced in a straight line, 
and on a level, for at least some distance; whereas, in its present 
state, the walk takes a sudden turn, and ascends ; two of the most 
undignified and unartistlike circumstances that can be imagined 
in such a situation. ‘The arrangement of the going and re- 
turning walks in the pleasure-ground at Nuneham has always 
been unsatisfactory, and we recollect the old gardener, Stephen- 
son, who showed us the original plan for laying out the grounds 
by Brown, acknowledging that this was allowed to be the case. 
The objection might be entirely done away with by means of a 
judicious terrace, but certainly not by the present one in its 
present state. If we have leisure, we may, perhaps, at some 
future opportunity, give a general idea to our readers how this 
is to be done; but, as to do it justice would require several 
engravings, we have not time to enter into it at present; we 
shall only say that nature has done much at Nuneham Cour- 
tenay; and that art, judiciously exercised, might render the 
pleasure-ground worthy of the place. One of the worst features 
about the park is the approach road; which, from the lodges, 
first ascends a hill by a direct line, and then descends to the 
house, having it full in view. Nothing can be worse, either in 
point of convenience or effect, than such an approach ; and the 
evil can only be avoided by circuitous sweeps, disguised by 
scattered trees, so that the house shall not be seen at all, till the 
stranger arrives within a few yards of it; and finds himself on a 
level with, or, if possible, rather under the level of, the ground 
of the entrance front. This should be done in such a manner 
that the steepness of the road should in no part exceed one in 
forty. ‘There are some formal unconnected clumps and belts, 
bounded by straight undisguised clipped hedges in the outer 
part of the park, and various other deformities there, which, of 
course, will be done away with as the improvement of the place 
proceeds. 

Baildon House, opposite Nuneham Courtenay, was, in 1804, a 
residence of some note, and it has still in the grounds many of 
the elements of a fine place; such as abundance of wood, and 
a surface varied by undulations, with a good soil for pasture and 


Baldon House, Blenheim. 99 


trees. ‘The plantations are much in want of thinning. By judi- 
ciously managing the fences of both parks which border the road, 
the one park might be made to lend great effect to the other. 
Blenheim. — August 11. On the evening of our arrival, we 
went to the great gates of the approach from Woodstock, and 
entered, hoping to catch the last rays of the setting sun lingering 
on the towers of the palace, and to see the deep broad shade 
thrown on the surface of the lake by the colossal bridge, and 
the massive oak woods beyond ; a spectacle which we had often 
enjoyed with delight in former times. The view altogether 
disappointed us; for, looking down on the lake, the surface of 
which is more than 100 ft. below the eye, half of it appeared 
quite green with aquatic weeds. Next morning we proceeded 
to the same gates with greater deliberation; but, previously to 
describing what we saw, it may be necessary to state that such 
were the care and study of the architect to connect his work with 
what surrounded it, and to give note of preparation of what 
was to follow, that he commenced his grand entrance by an outer 
entrance of ordinary width, between four piers connected by short 
walls. ‘This narrow entrance leads to a square area about 100 ft. 
on the side, which forms the outer court to the triumphal arch 
of the gateway. ‘The outer piers of the narrow entrance are be- 
ginning to decay; and out of one of them is growing a young 
ash tree, 5 ft. or 6 ft. in height, and out of the other a sycamore 
of about the same size. ‘This affords a suitable note of pre- 
paration for the state of the lake, the bridge, and the exterior of 
the palace. ‘The head, or dam, of the lake is so much out of 
repair, that it does not retain the water so high as it ought to do 
by several feet; and the water of the stream, instead of falling 
over the cascade as it used to do, finds its way under ground, 
and rises up like springs in the bed of the river and in the flat 
ground below. The joints of the masonry of the bridge are 
becoming the nidus of plants, and in a year or two this building 
alone will produce a tolerable flora. The side entrance, through 
which strangers are admitted to see the house, is beginning to 
be dilapidated, and a large portion of stone from the architrave 
over the gateway has lately splintered off and fallen down. The 
grand court of honour seems in better repair than any other 
part. The side courts require jointing, and protection by the 
repair of the roofs and copings. On first appearing before the 
entrance-gate of the outer court, one of the striking effects used 
to be the long architectural vista, seen through the first court, 
across the court of honour and across the third court; but this 
is now destroyed, in consequence of a hot-house having been put 
up in the third or stable court, which obtrudes its end across 
the line of archways. The duke has turned that court into a 


kind of melon, hot-house, or rubbish ground; and a strange 
H 2 


100 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


place it is, taken altogether. On entering the grand hall, we 
were struck by the long vistas through doors to the right and 
left; and also by the view through two doors to the lawn in 
front: on turning round, and looking towards the bridge, the 
long straight avenue passing over it, and having in its centre, 
at a certain distance, the lofty column crowned by the statue 
of Queen Anne, completes the impression of dignity and gran- 
deur. This avenue was formerly continued in a straight line 
for six or eight miles through the Ditchley and Heythrope 
demesnes, including the mansions of each in the line of the 
avenue. ‘There is something very grand, and at the same time 
very sociable, in the idea of thus connecting three magnificent 
residences. We see from these straight lines, right angles, and - 
lengthened vistas, how well Vanbrugh understood grandeur of 
effect, both in architecture and in the principal features of its 
accompaniments. ‘The architecture at Blenheim has trifling 
faults of detail; such, for example, as the combination of the 
obelisk and the pilaster with the recesses cut into the latter at — 
the side entrance; but, taking the pile altogether, we know 
nothing like it either ancient or modern. Some attempts were 
made, during the late duke’s time, to improve the terminations 
of the towers; and even the present duke has tried an expe- 
riment of this kind: but, if it is allowable to make an attempt 
to improve one part, why not attempt to improve the whole? 
But this would be absurd; because the palace would then no 
longer be the work of Vanbrugh, or the national monument 
raised in honour of the first duke. In justice to the memory of | 
both the great architect and the great warrior, we think every 
thing removed, either by the late or the present occupier, ought 
to be restored ; and no farther liberties taken by the present or 
future possessors. Indeed, there must be something defective 
in the arrangement by which the heirs of the great Marlborough 
hold this property; otherwise neither these alterations could 
have been made, nor the lake and the building have been 
suffered to be so much injured by neglect as they now are. 
After seeing the house, by the permission of the duke we were 
shown through the private garden.~ Much has been said re- 
specting this garden, but there is, in truth, nothing remarkable 
in it; and the duke can only wish it to be kept private, in order 
to prevent his walks being intruded upon by the numerous 
visiters, who, every day in the year, come to see the house and 
grounds. ‘Those who have seen Blenheim before this private 
garden was fenced off, will recollect the bank of lawn, commenc- 
ing at the library front of the house, and extending to the cas- 
cade. ‘They will also recollect the portion beyond the cascade, 
partly below it, containing some fountains; and partly above it, 
where there used to be some old mutilated statues. _ The lawn 
in front of the library, and these two portions of the grounds, 


Blenheim. 101 


are included in the duke’s private garden; the extent of the 
three scenes being estimated at about 80 acres. ‘There seems 
no reason why the occupier of such a place as Blenheim should 
not have a private garden, in the same manner as he has private 
apartments; but it is surely not allowable that, for this purpose, , 
he should monopolise all that is by nature, as well as by the 
art which had been exercised before his time, the finest part of 
the grounds. What is, perhaps, as bad as this monopoly is, 
that a part of the grounds, still left open to the public, is dis- 
figured by the main walk being included in what is now the pri- 
vate part, and by the necessity, which has been thus occasioned, 
of forming a new and smaller walk parallel to it. The one walle 
is separated from the other by a high fence, stuck full of furze 
bushes, so as to render it impervious “to the sight: a very great 
deformity, and one which shows, on the part ‘of those who put 
it there, an utter disregard of the general beauty of the place. 
We shall now notice the details of the duke’s private garden. 
Near the house, and from that to the cascade, the surface is 
sprinkled with choice trees and shrubs, planted in dug patches, 
in the usual manner. ‘These patches seldom contain more than 
a single tree or shrub, or a-standard rose, with a few flowers 
round its base. ‘There are at the same time a number of large 
- patches or masses, containing azaleas, rhododendrons, and other 
flowering shrubs, intermixed with flowers. Some of these masses 
are bordered by young oaks, twisted so as to form a wreath, 
care being taken, in pruning them, never to cut the leaves. In 
some cases, the common oak is used for this purpose, and in 
others, the ‘Turkey: both form very beautiful edgings. ‘The 
subsoil being “stonebrash” or rock, before the patches could 
be planted, a quantity of rock or stonebrash was dug out, and 
the excavation filled with earth. In consequence of the porous 
rocky bottom, this earth is washed in, and in part lost in the 
interstices of the substratum, so that the surface ef many of the 
beds or patches is 7in., and in some cases as much as 14 ft., 
below the level of the adjoining lawn. ‘This is a very great de- 
formity; and, indeed, the edgings both of the walks and beds, 
throughout the whole place, partake of the same character of 
harshness. Mr. Jones, who has been head gardener to His Grace 
at White Knights and Blenheim since the year 1802, is as well 
aware of these faults as ourselves, but has not hands enough ta 
remedy either them, or several other equally glaring defects. 
No expense, or, perhaps, we should rather say, no effort, has 
been spared to obtain not only fine plants, but also large speci- 
mens of them. There are quantities of lar e@e Magnolia conspicua, 
tree pzeonies, purple magnolias, Pavza carnea and rubra, choice 
azaleas, kalmias, hybrid rnodedenadronss wistarias, and, in short, 


of all the more rare and beautiful trees and shrubs procurable at 
H 3 


102 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats :—= 


the nurseries; a long straight line of tulip trees, and another 
long straight line of trees of Magnolia conspicua. ‘There are 
many circular masses of heaths, which seem to thrive here re- 
markably well. Erica stricta is now between 3 ft. and 4 ft. high, 
forming magnificent bushes, and covered with flowers. rica 
mediterranea grows most vigorously, and has already attained 
the height of 5 ft. ‘The same may be said of E. australis ; and 
all the other hardy species are proportionately vigorous. Among 
the trees which thrive remarkably well here are, the tulip tree, 
Judas tree, Virgilia, Ailantus, Nyssa aquatica, liquidambar, sas- 
safras, and the Balearic box, which, like the common box, is 
of a much more beautiful green when grown under the shade of 
trees than when fully exposed to the sun. ‘There are some old 
trees of Catdlpa, 30 ft. high, with heads from 30 ft. to 50 ft. in 
diameter, now covered with flowers. Among the other old trees, 
besides the oaks, are some deciduous cypresses and Lombardy 
poplars; but the greater part of both these latter have been cut 
down since we last saw the grounds in 1810. The poplars were 
generally considered to be the oldest and finest in England; the 
few which remain are decayed at the top, and cannot last many 
years. ‘The deciduous cypresses are also decaying ; though large, 
they are smaller than those at Syon. There is a Portugal laurel, 
the branches of which are 100 yards round at the base; those 
of the Portugal laurel in Kastwell Park, in Kent, are consider- 
ably larger. A green-house in a tent-like shape has been formed 
at one angle near the house; and a handsome rustic shed, open 
on all sides, and covered with shingles, has been erected in the 
interior of the grounds. ‘There are various other covered seats, 
but none of them are good. ‘There is a circular piece of green 
trelliswork, with gilt balls, which we consider the ne plus ultra 
of bad taste and absurdity. It would disgrace a cockney tea- 
garden; and the sooner it is swept away from the grounds at 
Blenheim the better. So much for the details of all that part of 
what is called the duke’s private garden, which lies between the 
palace and the cascade. 

We shall next say one word on the manner in which the single 
plants, and the small groups and masses, have been distributed 
over the lawn. This has not been done with much taste. They 
are too equally scattered over every part, so that breadth of 
effect in the lawn is in a great measure destroyed: they might 
have been sufficiently distinct to show the individual beauties of 
the plants, and yet, at a distance, have formed large groups and 
masses. We do not object to the introduction of the two 
straight lines of rare trees before mentioned; on the contrary, 
we think they afford an agreeable contrast to the prevailing 
character of intricacy and variety; but we do decidedly object 
to the spotty frittered appearance, which every one possessing a 


Blenheim. 108 


painter’s eye must allow to be the result of the numerous single 
plants and groups introduced by the duke. 

Beyond the lake, and above the cascade, is formed what is called 
the rock garden. It may occupy an acre, and is surrounded by a 
fence, rather too conspicuous, both from within and without, of 
rude flagstones set on end. ‘The doors in this fence are formed 
of similar stones, turning on pivots, so as to turn either way, as 
easily as a common turnstile. We passed very hastily through 
this garden, but we saw it sufficiently to enable us to form a de- 
cided opinion, and to rank it with the rockwork at Syon, and that 
in the beautiful alpine garden of Lady Boughton, near Chester. 
(VII.551.)* The styles of the three rockeries are totally dif- 
ferent, though their object is the same, viz. that of displaying to 
advantage alpine plants. The object of Lady Boughton is, to 
show a range of the summits of rocky hills; that at Syon, to 
display a ridge of massive blocks of stone intermingled with 
vegetation; and that of the Duke of Marlborough, to show 
rocky scars on the face of a steep bank. One great advantage 
which the latter has is, the possession of abundance of stone of 
the same kind (viz. the limestone of the locality), abounding 
with organic remains. ‘There is nothing particular in the dis- 
position of the stones in the scars; but the stairs, which pass 
obliquely through them from one scar to another, and thus con- 
nect different horizontal galleries, are very well managed. Each 
plant has a separate nidus, with appropriate soil; and the more 
rare sorts are numbered in a particular manner by the duke. 
On a wooden tally, 9 in. long and 1 in. broad, painted lead 
colour, there is about an inch on the upper part painted yellow: 
on this an upper row of black dots represents hundreds, a lower 
row tens, and the lowest units. Among the plants are a number 
of rare alpine species in general mixture; and sometimes, if we 
are correct in our recollection, green-house species are intro- 
duced among them. Where the rockwork is so extensive as it 
is here, much more effect would be produced by keeping the ex~ 
otic species by themselves, for the purpose of producing a dis- 
tinct succession of scenes. ‘This principle, indeed, ought to be 
extended to the disposition of even the hardy alpines, which 
should have appeared in masses of one order in one place; 
but neither at White Knights, nor at Blenheim, has the duke 
ever shown any taste for beauty, but as displayed in objects 
taken singly. ‘The stones composing the rockwork are a good 
deal covered with moss, which takes off from their new and raw 
appearance. On the whole, this rock garden, defective as it 


* We have since heard that this rockery has been removed. We should 
have been very much gratified by a plan and view of the flower-garden and 
the rockery at Hoole House, but we find that it cannot be obtained. — Cond. 

H 4 


104 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


is, appeared to us the only redeeming point in the duke’s 
gardening operations at Blenheim. ‘The greater part of his 
other works we regard as injurious to the character of the 
place ; and in this respect we agree with our elegant and en- 
lightened correspondent “‘ An Amateur.” (See IV. 87.) 

It has been said by some that the Duke of Marlborough sane 
have made an excellent gardener : we cannot allow this, taking the 
word gardener in a general sense. We have seen no pence, 
phere at White Knights or Blenheim, of taste or skill m garden- 
ing as anart of design: we have seen a great love of rare plants, 
without well knowing what to do ithe them, and that is all. 
If the duke had ecu brought up a gardener, therefore, we do 
not think he would ever have risen higher than a mere cul- 
tivator ; he would certainly never have been either a Kent or 
a Brown. A thousand reflections arise out of the circum- 
stances connected with the present ruinous state of this princely 
demesne, but we repress them ; only observing that the character 
which we heard of the Duke of Marlborough, in Woodstock and 
Oxford, is very different indeed from that which the Duke of 
Wellington bears in the neighbourhood of Strathfieldsaye. 

Oxford. — August 13. We passed this day chiefly in looking 
at the colleges and other public institutions. The ancient gar den 
of Trinity College used to be remarkable for its yew hedges, 
which are now overgrown, and getting naked below. Yew 
hedges were planted against walls in former times, because gar- 
denas had nothing better to cover them; but they should now 
give way to the or namental climbing and creeping shrubs, of which 
five hundred species and varieties might here be introduced 
and named. ‘The narrow border in front of the wall might be 
stocked with numerous species and varieties of bulbs to flower in 
spring, and these might be succeeded by annuals for summer 
display. ‘The effect would be most splendid throughout the 
year, and the names being added to each species might be the 
means of exciting a taste for plants in many of the students. 
In all probability, however, the yew hedges are considered as 
much a part of the college as the stone walls against which they 
are placed, and, of course, neither will be removed. 

The garden of St. John’s College is under the care of Mr. 
Fairbairn, who is introducing various improvements, and intends 
ultimately to have, if possible, an approximation to an arboretum, 
with the different species named. ‘This is as it ought to be, 
and we could wish to see the same thing attempted in every 
college garden. What all these gardens, without any exception, 
might excel in, would be, climbersand cr eepers on their boundary 
walls, and mignonette in the crevices of their paved open courts, 
and at the aes of the walls of the gravelled courts, as Mr. 
Fairbairn has successfully exemplified in the gravelled court of 


College Gardens at Oxford. 105 


St. John’s. The garden at St John’s is considered the largest 
college garden in Oxford. 

The walks belonging to Magdalen College are conducted 
through meadows on raised banks about 30 ft. broad, between 
ditches containing running water, about 10 ft. broad and 4 ft. 
deeper than the surface of the meadows. The walk along the 
centre of the raised bank is about 10 ft. wide, leaving 10 feet on 
each side to be varied by trees. ‘Through the framework formed 
by the stems of these trees and the undergrowths, the meadows 
and country beyond are seen to great advantage; and, in ad- 
vancing along, so admirably do the trees come in, that there is 
not a point, whichever way the eye turns, from which a perfect 
landscape might not be transferred to paper. This is saying as 
much for such a walk as can be said in a landscape point of view ; 
the improvements which the gardener ought to make in it are, to 
substitute American and other choice trees and shrubs for the 
common sorts, and to introduce herbaceous plants, taking care 
that this is done in such a manner that one genus at least may 
prevail in one place, and not that a uniform mixture should be 
maintained throughout. This principle, we trust, Mr. Fairbairn 
will keep in view in his improvements in the college gardens, 
and more especially in his introduction of laurels, box, holly, yew, 
ivy, &c., as undergrowth, instead of elm suckers, and elders. 
We recommend him to study Bear Wood. (IX. 679.) 

The walks in Christ Church meadow differ from those of Mag- 
dalen chiefly in having a greater breadth of turf on each side, 
and in being more thinly planted with trees; and they might be 
improved in a similar manner. For the scattered trees in the 
meadows of both colleges others might be substituted, and added, 
so as to form an arboretum. Christ Church avenue is much 
injured since we last saw it, by the decay of the top branches 
of many of the trees. The area of the quadrangle of Christ 
Church is a level square of turf, with a basin (possessing till lately 
a fountain) in the centre, and surrounded by a broad terrace 
walk about 3ft. higher than the turf. The sunk area might 
easily be rendered a most beautiful flower-garden, like that of the 
Tuileries. In the private garden here are two fig trees, said to have 
been planted by Cardinal Wolsey, and a very old mulberry tree. 
The fig trees, which are against a wall, have been cut down so 
often, that they show no shoots older than twenty or thirty years, 
and, as these proceed from stools concealed by the surface soil, 
no stranger could discover that the trees are old: in truth, they 
may rather be considered as suckers from the old trees which 
formerly stood on the same spot. They bear every year; and, a 
few days ago, a plate of ripe figs from one of them was exhibited 
at the Oxford horticultural show. The mulberry tree is a large 
and venerable fragment, supported by numerous wooden posts, 


106 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


and bound and tied together by iron hoops and rods. The heart 
weod is entirely rotted out, and the circumferential wood is sepa- 
rated into parts, round each of which the bark is advancing in a 
manner which promises ultimately to give them the appearance 
of so many separate natural stems, as we frequently find to be 
_the case in the very old olive plantations in Italy; for example, at 
Terni. In the upper part of the tree is a thriving plant of the 
common elder, which has this year made a shoot 5 ft. long. 

The kitchen of Christ Church College is 40 ft. square and 
40 ft. high, lighted from a lantern in the centre of the roof. 
There are three fireplaces, each 20 ft. wide; one of which, for 
roasting, has a grate formed of upright iron bars 43 ft. high, 
forming a grating about 9 in. distant from the brickwork which 
forms the back of the fireplace. When roasting is to be per- 
formed, a vertical stratum of coals is filled in between the grating 
and the brickwork, and six tiers of spits, each between 13 ft. and 
14 ft. long, and each having on it six or eight joints, or twelve 
or thirteen fowls, are placed on the racks, and set in motion by 
the smoke-jack. The dripping from the whole drops into the 
same dripping-pan, and every separate article is basted with the 
combined dripping sc produced. ‘Thus, if ducks, geese, turkeys, 
fowls, pork, beef, mutton, venison, veal, and lamb, were all 
roasting at the same time, each of these articles would be basted 
with the combined fat of ducks, geese, turkeys, fowls, pork, beef, 
mutton, venison, veal, and lamb. On expressing our surprise 
at this to one of the under-cooks who attended us, she informed 
us that she believed none of the gentlemen knew of the practice ; 
but that the two or three tutors or poorer students who remained 
during vacations, and who dined sometimes on one joint roasted 
by itself, expressed their satisfaction at its goodness. It is not 
a little instructive to reflect on this fact. Here are a number of 
young men of the first rank and wealth in the kingdom, who 
affect, and indeed have a right from their station in society, to be 
epicures, eating what would disgust the humblest mechanic or 
poorest tradesman. If these frequently dine on meat roasted 
along with other sorts in a close oven, they are still aware of the 
difference in flavour between such meat and that roasted by 
itself in a free current of air; but these noble epicures, who 
would, no doubt, be shocked beyond measure at the idea of 
eating meat which had been roasted or baked in a baker’s oven, 
on account of its having been exposed to the exhalations of 
other kinds of meat supposed to be roasting in it at the same 
time, are yet faring every day on what is a great deal worse both 
in reality and idea. ‘There is a curious old gridiron in the 
kitchen at Christ Church, 5 ft. square, with iron wheels. It is 
said that formerly, when meat was dressed on it, a hole in the 
floor was filled with lighted charcoal, and, the gridiron being 


Nurseries at Oxford. 107 


charged, it was wheeled over the fire, and afterwards wheeled off 
and on as it became requisite. The larders, and all the other 
subordinate arrangements of this kitchen, are of a very clumsy 
and imperfect description, badly lighted and ventilated, and 
altogether unfavourable to cleanliness. Properly ventilated 
roasting-ovens would not only roast every kind of meat with its 
proper flavour, as well as it is done before an open fire in a 
private gentleman’s house, but they would save a great deal of 
fuel and labour. Let Mr. Sylvester, or some such engineer, be 
consulted, and we will venture to say that modern innovations 
on long-established forms will be adopted in the utensils and 
the arrangements of college cookery, whatever others suggested 
for the gardens and grounds may be rejected. : 

August 14. We this day looked at the different Oxford 
nurseries. In 1804, there were only two gardens of this de- 
scription; that of Mr. Tegg, and that of Mr. Penson. There 
are now four others. Still the taste at Oxford is more for 
the sensual, than for the intellectual part of gardening. The 
principal products of all these nurseries are culinary vegetables 
and fruits; and the next, showy and fragrant flowers. What 
the gentlemen of the cclleges desire most, is what the preacher 
Huntington says was preferred by the cookmaid at the place 
where he was gardener, viz. “a flower in a pot, and one that 
would stand.” A geranium, a rose, a night-smelling stock, and 
mignonette, we were informed, would sell, but not any of the 
new calceolarias or fuchsias, because in the rooms of the col- 
leges they would not “stand.” Forced fruits, such as straw- 
berries and cucumbers, pay remarkably well. 

Tege’s Paradise Nursery has been in his family upwards of a 
century. When we first saw it, in 1804, it contained scarcely 
any thing more than a common market-garden, but it possesses 
now many of the rarer and more expensive plants; decidedly 
the most valuable nursery collection at Oxford. Among the 
camellias are C. reticulata, C. japonica fimbriata, and all the best 
varieties of Mr. Press. Almost all the new shrubs which have 
been recommended in this Magazine are to be found here; 
a number of them we certainly did not expect to see. We 
cannot say much for the manner in which they are propagated 
or cultivated, speaking comparatively with the London nur- 
series; and, as to order and neatness, Mr. ‘Tege sets them at 
defiance. ‘The truth is, the ground is his own, and he is too 
independent to care about making the most of it. In one re- 
spect, it put us in mind of the Monkwood Nursery, where, as 
its owner, Mr. Smith, informed us (VIII. 113.), he allowed 
the rarest plants and commonest weeds to grow up together 
‘Cin a friendly manner.” Mr. Tege has been very successful in 
propagating a number of hardy things; among other shrubs, 


108 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats :— 


Daphne péntica from cuttings as stocks for the rarer species, and 
variegated hollies from cuttings. 

Penson’s Nursery adjoins the Botanic Garden; but he has 
other grounds, of greater extent, along the London road. Mr. 
Penson, senior, is 92 years of age, and in vigorous health. 
The articles produced are chiefly fruits and showy flowers. 
There are apple trees here, on a wet bottom, of small size, of the 
burr-knot kind, and upwards of 80 years of age, which bear well 
every year, producing very little wood, and abundance of fruit; 
and a black cluster grape, above 100 years of age, the roots of 
which have also got down to the wet bottom, which produces 
scarcely any fruit. Some parts of this nursery were passably 
clean; but a part of it, facing the main street of Oxford, on the 
outside of the Botanic Garden, though neatly laid out in flower- 
beds, was, in respect to cleanliness, far below the economic 
point. Mr. Tege’s nursery is in an obscure part of the town, 
and its disorderly state chiefly concerns himself; but Mr, Pen- 
son’s nursery forms the very eye of the city when entering it 
from London; and, as a point of honour, he cught to keep it in 
the very highest order. 

Bates’s Nursery is about two miles from Oxford, on the Ban- 
bury road, and ranks, we believe, in point of age, the next to 
Penson’s. Mr. Bates chiefly grows florists’ flowers, and the 
commoner forest trees and shrubs; he also grows culinary vege- 
tables. He has 13 acres thus stocked; and, in point of clean- 
liness, his ground is superior to the two preceding nurseries. 
He seems to have raised some good seedling georginas, in flower- 
ing which he is much annoyed by earwigs, which eat the flower 
while in the bud, and he is in consequence obliged to enclose 
some of the buds in small calico bags, kept distended by a 
ring of fine wire inside. ‘The opening of the flower is retarded 
by these bags; and, in very hot weather, this may be an advan- 
tage, as, by opening slower, it may possibly open better. Mr. 
Bates endeavours, like other gardeners, to catch the earwigs in 
hollow tubes, formed of tubular flower stems of rhubarb and 
other plants, and in small pots of hay and moss turned down on 
the tops of the props. 

Fairbairn’s Nursery is close to the garden of St. John’s. It is 
of very limited extent, but contains several forcing-houses and 
pits, and a number of good things. Mr. Fairbairn’s great object 
in this nursery is to force strawberries, cucumbers, and flowers ; 
finding that, at Oxford, these pay better than any thing else. 
One of his forcing-houses is heated by a smoke-flue from one of 
Witty’s stoves, which has been improved in construction by Mr. 
Edwards, ironmonger, of Oxford. Mr. Fairbairn has another 
garden, chiefly for growing fruits and culinary vegetables, which, 
being at some distance, we did not go to see. ‘The pits, in 


Nurseries at Oxford. 109 


which he grows cucumbers all the winter, were heated by hot 
water. ‘The pipes are conducted along the bottom of the pit; 
over these are placed narrow one-inch boards, about an inch 
apart, and over these a layer of turves. On these turves is 
placed a bed of mould, 18 in. thick, in which the plants are 
grown. We do not altogether approve of this plan, which, under 
a careless gardener, must be liable to some of the principal ob- 
Jections to a common hot-bed, viz., that of over-heating the roots, 
and that of having no power to produce a dry atmosphere. One 
pipe under the bed, and one over it at the front, would, we think, 
have been better. 

Hlumphrys’s Nursery is on the Banbury read; and we are 
much mistaken if it will not be in time the first of the Oxford 
nurseries. Mr, Humphrys has only been here a year or two; 
and he has had every thing to contend with, the ground, before 
he got it, having been just enclosed from a common. He told 
us that he was one of the first who assisted in establishing the 
Clapton Nursery Library in 1826; and he was also the first 
who proposed the establishment of a garden library for the use of 
the Oxford gardeners, which has ended in a gardening and 
natural history society and library, extensively supported by 
the gentlemen of the colleges and of the surrounding country. 
Mr. Humphrys has already built a dwelling-house and some 
forcing-houses. He brought with him here an excellent col- 
lection of tulips, which he grows in a bed under an awning 
like that of Mr. Groom. He has also raised several seedling 
georginas of a superior description, and grows a number of 
the fier annual flowers for seed. For this last department of 
gardening, the soil of Mr. Humphrys’s nursery is particularly 
suitable. LEschschéltzza, which scarcely ripens its seed at all 
about London, ripens it well here. Indeed, we have no doubt 
that the growing of flower-seeds might be carried to a very 
considerable extent in this neighbourhood, on account of the 
shallow calcareous soil and dry rocky subsoil. Mr. Humphrys’s 
ground is admirably situated; and, as he appears a most indus- 
trious as well as most intelligent man, we have no doubt of 
his meeting with the success he deserves. His grounds were 
in good order and keeping. 

Jeffery's Nursery is quite new, and chiefly cropped with culinary 
vegetavles. Part of it is laid out, however, with considerable 
taste, and is devoted te flowers and shrubs; among which were 
some valuable new sorts. We have no doubt it will be a good 
nursery in a few years. We noticed here a plant of Calliopsis 
bicolor, with the dark-coloured part of the petals extending to 
the very tips, which alone were yellow. Seeds should be saved 
from this individual; but we saw no one in the nursery whom we 
could recommend to do this. The grounds were in good order, 


110 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats :— 


and surrounded by a dead hedge of thorns, very ingeniously 
constructed. This nursery, and that of Mr. Humphrys, were 
in. better order and keeping than any of the other Oxford nur- 
series. 

The Botanic Garden at Oxford is a venerable establishment. 
It is entered by a noble stone archway, through which is seen a 
vista to the other extremity of the garden. The two principal 
hot-houses have elevations of stone, massive and grand in an 
architectural point of view, but scarcely suitable for preserving 
plants, much less for growing them. ‘There are two other hot- 
houses with very steep roofs, adjusted to the angle recommended 
by Boerhaave as admitting the greatest number of the sun’s rays 
during the winter solstice. The walls of the garden appear to 
be about 2 ft. thick, and 12 ft. high, with a coved Gothic cornice 
on each side, under an eievated Gothic coping. ‘The whole wall 
is composed of large blocks of smoothly dressed stone, and forms 
the noblest garden wall, speaking architecturally, which we have 
seen in any country. Comparing this botanic garden with all the 
others in Britain, it as far surpasses them in an architectural point 
of view, as it is inferior to the best of them in botanicai riches. 
When we first saw it, in 1804, it was a very poor and apparently 
neglected garden, hardly worthy of being called botanical; but 
since it has been put under the direction of Mr. Baxter, the 
present curator, it has been in all respects wonderfully improved : 
the number of species, as it appeared to us, has been more than 
tripled ; and the whole is in far better order and keeping. Mr. 
Baxter has also raised the entire surface of the garden 10 in., 
and has brought into culture a space outside, the surface of which 
he has also raised. All this he has effected without any extra- 
assistance, in the course of a great number of years, doing a little 
during the winter of each. Itis, indeed, altogether extraordinary 
that Mr. Baxter has been able to accomplish this, since he has 
not half the number of men requisite for keeping such a garden 
in proper order. In proper order, indeed, it is impossible that 
it can be kept; we merely say that it is wonderful that it should 
be so good as it is. In showing us round, Mr. Baxter pointed 
out some box and yew hedges 9 ft. broad, which must be as old 
as the garden itself. The branches of yew are, in many places, 
grown together by a sort of natural inarching. These hedges 
are of no use whatever; and are injurious by occupying space, 
and affording a harbour to slugs, mice, birds, and other vermin. 
The cistern for aquatics is a parallelogram trongh of boards, 
lined with copper, about 2 ft. wide, divided into squares of one 
foot each, so that each plant is kept perfectly distinct. ‘The upper 
surface is about 3 ft. from the ground, so that all the plants are 
near the eye. In this aquarium the plant which was the most 
rare to us was the Caltha natans. The stages for alpines are built 


Botanic Garden at Oxford. 111 


solid of brick; each step is 9 in. wide, and the thickness of a brick 
higher than the one below it. The pots are thus kept cool, the 
worms are prevented from entering them, and the plants are 
presented advantageously to the eye. ‘There is a considerable 
collection of willows, and a surprising number of new plants, 
considering that none are purchased, and that there is but little 
to exchange with other botanic gardens for them. Some of the 
newest articles have been contributed by our good friend, Mr. 
Cameron of the Birmingham Garden. Near the entrance gate 
is what is believed to be the oldest and largest Christ’s thorn 
(Paliurus aculeatus) in England: it is about 20 ft. high, and would 
extend wider were it not surrounded by other plants. It is now 
beautifully in bloom, a circumstance which adds greatly to its 
value as an ornamental shrub, there being very few of these which 
flower in August. ‘There is an Aristoléchia here, the leaves of 
which always produce a portion of green leaf on the under side, 
slightly attached in the middle, and showing a surface like that 
of the upper side. Whether this is a disease, or a peculiarity of 
growth, Mr. Baxter has been unable to ascertain. ‘There are 
numerous fine plants of Yucca gloriosa in one part of the garden; 
and Mr. Baxter finds that suckers of this species require 12 years’ 
growth before they come into flower, and that afterwards they 
flower every 4. or 5 years. He had five yuccas in flower at once, 
a year or two ago, some of them having flower stems 15 ft. high. 
The two principal compartments of the garden are devoted to 
herbaceous plants ; the one to British and the other to European 
and American species: the arrangement in both cases is Linnean. 
So badly are the flues in the hot-houses constructed, that Mr. — 
Baxter informed us it required a whole afternoon’s attendance to 
the fire to generate any sensible heat. In the central green-house 
there is no flue at all, but a small iron stove against the back wall 
behind the stage; and, what will amuse gardeners who have not 
seen the contrivances of the same kind on the Continent, there is a 
small iron four-wheeled waggon, which, in severe weather, is filled 
with burning charcoal, and drawn backwards and forwards along 
the front path by the gardener. There can be little doubt but that 
Bobart, who was a German, and the first gardener here, imported 
this waggon from his own country. In the library and museum, 
Mr. Baxter pointed out to us the herbariums of Gerarde, Dillenius, 
Morrison, and other old and eminent botanists; the first two 
volumes of Rudbeck’s Campi Elysii, folio, full of wood en- 
gravings of plants of all countries, very scarce ; this being the only 
copy of the first volume in England. There are only three copies 
of this volume, and six of the second, in the world: all the rest, 
with the whole of the copies of the remaining ten volumes of the 
work, were destroyed by fire; and grief for their loss is supposed to 
have occasioned Rudbeck’s death. Every young gardener knows 


112 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats :— 


the genus Rudbécka, named after this eminent, but unfortunate, 
botanist: he will now have some interesting ideas, which he can 
associate with the name when he sees the plant. It is much to 
be desired that a Biographical Dictionary of eminent Botanists 
and Naturalists were published, from which gardeners and others 
_ might draw a few ideas to associate with the commemorative 
names of plants. We made an attempt at this, in the first pages 
of our notes to the Encyclopedia of Plants ; but, finding that we 
could not do it satisfactorily, for want of proper data, we gave it 
up. It would require a German botanist to undertake such a 
herculean task. 

Besides the relics before-mentioned, we saw the original draw- 
ings for a work on fungi by Dillenius, as well as the dried spe- 
cimens from which he drew and engraved, with his own hands, 
the plates for his work on mosses. Passing over many other in- 
teresting articles, we shall conclude by stating that we saw a num- 
ber of the original drawings made from nature, by three artists, 
for Mr. Baxter’s excellent work, Britzsh Phenogamous Botany. 
We were happy to learn, from different sources, as well as from 
Mr. Baxter himself, that this work is exceedingly well received, 
as, indeed, it ought to be. We are persuaded that, when the 
nature of the work is known, and that it will be completed in 
about six volumes, there will not be a scientific young gardener, 
or any young man or woman whatever, desirous of forming an 
acquaintance with British plants, who will not become possessed 
of it. Some persons that we have met with about London con- 
found Mr. Baxter’s British Phanogamous Botany with Mr. Sower- 
by’s English Botany ; but the important difference between them 
is, that the latter contains all the species, and the former only 
one species of a genus. ‘The Hnglish Botany will consequently 
be much more extensive than the Lrztish Phenogamous Botany ; 
which last will not cost more, uncoloured, than 3/. As there 
are but a few genera of British plants, of which it can be desir- 
able for a gardener, or, indeed, any person who is not a 
scientific botanist, to know all the species, we certainly think 
Mr. Baxter’s work perfectly sufficient for every practical man. 
Whoever knows the characters of a genus, and has seen the 
typical species, can, generally speaking, easily make out from 
botanical descriptions, or even short specific characters, any 
of the species. ‘Those who want to do more than know the 
principal species, and at the same time to save themselves the 
trouble of discovering species from descriptions, may have re- 
course to Mr. Sowerby’s excellent work, in which the whole of 
them are figured, and may be recognised at a glance. For our 
own part, we think that gardeners and most other persons 
should endeavour to become acquainted with the genera and 


Botanic Garden at Oxford. 113 


the principal species only; for a great deal of valuable time 
may be as good as lost by a young gardener, in acquiring a 
knowledge, or rather in recollecting the names, of obscure plants, 
which might be more profitably employed in acquiring a general 
knowledge of other branches of natural history, and chemistry. 
The beau idéai which a young gardener ought to aim at is, a 
general knowledge of every thing; and a power of directing the 
whole of his attention and faculties to any one subject, so as to 
make himself master of it, if requisite. 

The last thing which Mr. Baxter showed us was his own 
study, or library; and certainly it is by far the most complete 
one which we have ever seen in the possession of any British 
botanic gardener. That which approaches the nearest to it 
is the library of Mr. Shepherd, at Liverpool; but Mr. Baxter’s 
is twice asrich. It contains all the works on British botany, De 
Candolle’s principal works, Sprengel’s, Roemer and Schultz’s, 
&c. Mr. Baxter showed us some leaves of dried specimens 
prepared for the work on mosses, of which he published three 
numbers some years ago; but, as Dr. Hooker informs us ( Znglish 
Flora, vol. v. p. 130.), ‘the work was never completed, Mr. 
Baxter having died after the third number.” We are happy to 
inform Dr. Hooker and his readers that it was the work only 
that died, and not the author; for Mr. Baxter now is, as we 
hope he may long continue to be, in excellent health and spirits. 
With all Mr. Baxter’s knowledge, he is one of the most modest 
and unassuming of men. 

It is much to be regretted that the city of Oxford has nota 
botanic garden suited to the rank which it holds as a British 
university. Were a small sum contributed by each of the col- 
leges yearly, even the present garden might be rendered doubly 
efficient: more especially if the adjoining ground, at present 
occupied by Mr. Penson, were added to it, and a part or the 
whole of the meadows of Christ Church. But the situation is 
altogether bad ; and, for a botanic garden worthy of Oxford, a 
dry, open, ample, airy piece of ground should be selected, 
outside of the town; say somewhere about Jeffery’s Nursery. 
The present botanic garden might still be continued as such, on 
a smaller scale, so as to suit the income destined for its support. 
Till lately there has been a great want of botanical taste among 
the Oxford professors; but we hope that a taste for botany, 
as well as a taste for geology, is now dawning upon them; and, 
whenever it does, they will soon produce a botanic garden 
worthy of themselves. We are sure that the stocking of the 
different college gardens with new and ornamental articles, and 
naming them in the manner contemplated by Mr. Fairbairn, will 
contribute much to this effect. After a botanic garden is es- 
tablished, a zoological garden will follow; and, perhaps, ulti- 

Vou, X.— No. 49. I 


114 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


mately, a public ornamental garden surrounding the whole city, 
as a breathing zone. (See V. 686.) 

The two principal ironmongers in Oxford are Ploughman 
and Edwards; the former has an ‘economical modification of Meth- 
ley’s fireplace (V. 238., and Encyclopedia of Cottage Architec- 
ture, § 2061. fig. 1843. ), which deserves general adoption. The 
fuel chamber is narrowed at the bottom, by the back and sides 
being beveled inwards; and the price is “greatly reduced, by 
the front bars and the grate being of cast iron unpolished, and 
plain beads being substituted for enriched mouldings. ‘This fire- 
place may be seen in some of the parlours of the Golden Cross 
Commercial Inn, Oxford. Mr. Edwards manufactures, besides 
the improved form of Witty’s furnace mentioned in p. 108., an 
excellent light and strong hand-glass of tinned iron; a barrow 
engine, the frame of which is wholly of iron; an exelent tin 
roaster ; and an oval tin hip-bath, which may also be used as a 
child’s bath, foot-bath, sponging-pan, or washing-tub. We have 
sketches of these articles, which we may probably give in our 
Architectural Magazine. Mr. Edwards has applied one of his 
improved Witty’s furnaces to a baker’s oven in Oxford, which 
we examined, and to some bakers’ ovens on a large scale in 
London, which we intend to see. The advantage is, a great 
saving of fuel, by the consumption of the smoke; and of labour, 
by avoiding the trouble of cleaning out the soot every time the 
oven is used. He has also applied these furnaces to the boilers 
of breweries and of wash-houses. 

The road to Wantage is through a hilly country, badly culti- 
vated ; and it is everywhere in want of having the surface soil 
deepened by such an instrument as Finlayson’s harrow or as 
Wilkie’s grubber; but it will require another and a reading 
generation of farmers to introduce these implements. We passed 
only one or two gentlemen’s seats, but we observed a number of 
well-kept cottage gardens, richly ornamented with China roses, 
hollyhocks, and many of them with georginas. ‘The splendour of 
the roses on one cottage, in a remote situation, exceeded any- 
thing of the kind between it and London: the trees were at least 
20 ft. high, and were covered with a mass of bloom. We lately 
saw a lady to whom the present Mr. Lee’s grandfather, about 
forty years ago, showed the first China rose which he had to 
propagate from, as a great curiosity. In some of these gardens 
were Kérréa japonica and <Adcuba japonica, both green-house 
plants thirty years ago. 

Wantage is a small dull town, but still there are some neat 
little gardens about it. ‘The country continues hilly, and badly 
cultivated, till within a few miles of Newbury. 

Benham House, Keppel Craven, Esq.—August 14. ‘The grounds 
are limited; but, from the proximity of the woody scenery of 


Benham House; Hampstead Park. 115 


Hampstead Park, to a stranger they appear boundless. There is 
a fine piece of water in the bottom, and the lawns are very 
well varied with trees; but, the owner having resided many years 
abroad, the house has been long unoccupied, and the grounds 
are in a state of neglect. We examined the kitchen-garden, 
in which the mode of heating hot-houses by hot water was first 
displayed by Mr. Bacon, when he rented Benham House; but 
the hot-houses are now pulled down, and the garden let out to 
a market-gardener. 

Hampstead Park, formerly Hampstead Marshal, Earl of Craven, 
adjoins, as we have just observed, Benham Park, and, in the 
language of landscape-gardening, appropriates the whole of its 
scenery. ‘The most remarkable part of this park is an elevated 
situation, where, on a piece of table land, a magnificent palace 
was commenced by William Earl of Craven, in 1662. The 
legend of the place is, that this palace was erected by the first 
Earl of Craven (well known for his gallantry in the wars under 
Gustavus King of Sweden) for the daughter of James VI., the 
widowed Queen of Bohemia, to whom, it is said, he was privately 
married. ‘This earl inherited great wealth from his father, who 
was a citizen of London. It was for this same queen that the 
magnificent gardens of Heidelberg were planned, and partly 
executed, by Solomon Caus, one of the most celebrated archi- 
tects and engineers of his time. In his published plans of the 
Heidelberg gardens (Hortus Palatinus Heidelberga, &c., 1620) is 
a design for an orangery, with the idea thrown out of heating it 
by steam. In all probability, this orangery was the largest then 
in Germany. It is a remarkable circumstance, that, though these 
two magnificent places were formed for the Queen of Bohemia, 
she never enjoyed either of them. She was driven from Heidel- 
berg, by her first husband’s defeat at Prague, before the gardens 
there were finished; and she died the very year after the palace 
of Hampstead Marshal was commenced. ‘The Earl of Craven 
never married again, and, after his death, his titles and estates 
went to a distant relation. 

The architect of the palace at Hampstead Marshal was Sir 
Balthazar Gerbier, who died in 1667, and is buried in a small 
church adjoining the site of the palace; where, also, was buried 
Gideon Hickson, “ who was smith and farrier to the abovesaid 
noble earl, and who died in the year 1677.” ‘This palace was 
burned down in 1718; but the grand piers for the gates of the 
garden scenery, amounting to 12, each about 20 ft. high, and 
superbly decorated with sculpture, still remain; as does the 
kitchen-garden, with an elevated terrace forming one side of it. 
We were informed by Mr. Dawkins, the gardener here, that a 
London architect has recently proposed to remove these piers to 


Coombe Abbey, the earl’s seat, near Coventry. We hope no 
12 


116 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats :— 


such sacrilege will be perpetrated. We would rather recommend 
recourse being had to the original plans for the palace and its 
accompaniments ; and, as the site is elevated, and commands 
extensive prospects on at least three sides, we ‘would realise all 
the accompaniments, such as terraces and gardens, and build 
walls representing the general outline of the house. We would 
raise these walls to the intended height of the basement floor, 
and on this level platform, we would form a flower-garden, or 
even a plain area of smooth turf, from which the views of the 
surrounding country might be enjoyed. We would even goa 
step farther, and carry up the walls so as to terminate them a “few 
feet higher than the platform, irregularly, distinctly indicating the 
openings for the windows, &c., and varying the whole with vege- 
tation, so as to make it appear like aruin. ‘The situation is well 
adapted for a magnificent house, from its dry gravelly soil, as wellas 
from its elevated surface ; and we only wonder that any one should 
reside, even for a month or two, in such a low, dull, damp situation 
as Coombe Abbey, who had an opportunity of building here. ‘The 
kitchen-garden intended for the palace contains seven acres, and 
the walks, which are of turf, were originally of such a width as 
to admit of a carriage driving all round and through the garden. 
The kitchen-garden. in Tonge: days, it must be recollected, formed 
a part of the pleasure-ground, and, in correspondence with this 
idea, the terrace above mentioned is on that side of it which is 
opposite to the house. ‘This magnificent terrace is now used as 
a rabbit warren. ‘The walls of the kitchen-garden are most 
substantial, being built of sound brick, and well protected with 
stone copings. Against one of them the original fig trees still con- 
tinue to bear excellent crops. There is a commodious gardener’s 
house, with large lofty rooms; and some new hot-houses have 
been commenced. One of these, a peach-house, is heated by 
steam, by Messrs. Bailey of Holborn, the iron pipes being cast 
so as to imitate cables, in allusion to the late earl’s fondness for 
maritime pursuits. ‘The present residence of Hampstead Park 
is more than half a mile from this ancient garden, on a declivity 
in the lower part of the grounds. It is very pleasingly situated, 
and, though it was originally nothing more than a keeper’s lodge, 
it is now enlar ged, and has been rendered fit for the residence 
of a wealthy family. As both the additions to the house and to 
the grounds have been made by degrees, and without any pre- 
viously concerted plan, with a view to unity of system and effect, 
it is not to be expected that much instruction can be derived 
from studying the general arrangement of this residence; but 
there is a great deal of variety in the details, and nothing can 
exceed the excellence of the culture of the flowers and shrubs. 
There are several separate flower-gardens, each laid out 
with taste, and planted with the choicest species and varieties. 


Benham House, Hampstead Park. 117 


Two of these flower-gardens have the beds surrounded by 
edgings of box, with gravel walks between, and open trelliswork 
summer-houses in the centre; and another has the beds on turf, 
and contains an octagon tea-room, very tastefully designed, and 
neatly finished and furnished. Under a wide-spreading common 
sycamore, of which there are many fine specimens at this 
place, projecting from a steep bank, there is a level semicir- 
cular platform bounded by a parapet wall, the coping to which 
is formed by a groove 6 in. wide and deep, on the top of the 
wall, filled with soil, and planted with sedums, saxifrages, and 
other rock and wall plants. ‘The view over this parapet is to a 
wild wooded glen, with a rising bank of natural wood beyond ; 
altogether a romantic scene. ‘There are several green-houses, 
rather too green for our taste, because the woodwork is painted 
of that colour; but the plants within are excellently grown, 
as are those in a small hot-house. There is a wall for accli- 
matising tender plants, and for showy roses and climbers, on 
which, among other fine things frequently before named, are 
Billardiéra longiflora, which is found perfectly hardy, and is 
now covered with its beautiful purple fruit. On the lawn in 
front of the house are numerous beds, rustic boxes, and several 
architectural ornaments, such as vases, &c.: but the latter, being 
placed on the turf, without any mural connection with the house, 
or any conspicuous architectural basement, are decidedly ob- 
jectionable. Another garden contains a rustic arcade covered 
with creepers, which is very fine; and, in short, throughout the 
place there may be seen almost all the usual garden ornaments 
of the rustic and trellis kind. There is a boundary fence of 
woodwork, sawn and turned by machinery impelled by a water 
wheel; and so great are the economy and expedition produced 
by the employment of this power, that five men saw, plane, turn, 
and put together, in one day, nine panels of fence, each 9 ft. 
long, and 93 ft. high. There are numerous hybrid rhodo- 
dendrons and azaleas, the types of most of which have been 
originated by Mr. Gowen, in the gardens at Highclere, and 
a variety of other articles and contrivances, of ingenuity and 
interest, all of which are admirably managed by the gardener, 
Mr. Dawkins. 

From the garden scenery on the declivity we went down to the 
Vale of Kennet, in which, on the centre of a broad expanse of the 
river, where the water is 14 ft. deep, is an octagon bathing hut 
surrounded by a rustic veranda. This is connected with both 
banks of the river by wooden bridges, from the ends of which 
proceed gravel walks for fishing from. These lead to a fishing 
house, and to stews, in which we were shown some remarkably 
large trout, pike, and numerous eels; and chub, which is only 
used here for feeding the other fish, though it is sometimes sold 

13 


118 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats. 


in London for carp, which it greatly resembles. The scales of 
this fish were sold, a few years ago, to the London jewellers for 
10s. 6d. a pint. We also saw here, for the first time in England, 
the crawfish, of which we had seen, in 1813, great numbers in 
the moist meadows on the Vistula at Warsaw and Cracow. 
They are here in little esteem, and are seldom used, though 
they are there considered as delicate as shrimps, and are thought 
to make one of the best of soups. We were surprised to find 
that, though the trout and the pike may be fed advantageously 
in stews, eelscannot. The manner in which the fish are caught 
at the weirs here is very simple and ingenious. Below the 
sluices is placed an iron grating the whole breadth of the stream, 
and rising nearly to the height of the water in the dam. Beyond 
the rise it declines into a gutter, which leads to a tank or box at 
the side. ‘The large fish which are let out by the sluices are 
thrown over into this gutter, which is also grated, so as to pre- 
vent their escaping otherwise than down a slope on one side to 
the box or chest. In this way as many fish are caught as are 
wanted, and no more, especially eels. 

The Kennet is one of those rivers that exhibit the pheno- 
menon of ice forming in the bottom, and we were informed here 
by the Earl of Craven’s fisherman, that, in severe winters, the ice 
forms with such rapidity in those parts of the river that are 
shallow, and where, of course, the stream is rapid, that, in one 
night, a complete dam has been formed across the stream, of 
such a height as to throw the water over the adjoining banks. 
The water thus thrown over also freezes, and the consequence 
would be, a complete inundation of the valley above, if the fisher- 
men did not take effectual means to break up this dam. It is 
observed that, when the bottom of the river is frozen, one good 
effect is the result, and this is, that, when it thaws, the pieces of 
ice, which float up from the bottom, bring all the weeds with 
them ; thus thoroughly cleaning the river. Observing a circular 
pond of stagnant water close by the margin of the Kennet, we 
asked the fisherman whether he had observed what took place 
in this pond when the river froze at the bottom. He perfectly 
understood the question, and answered that this pond, and all 
other stagnant water, froze at top. Some years ago, Mr. T. A. 
Knight made an attempt to explain the cause of running water 
freezing first at the bottom, in the Transactions of the Royal Society ; 
and the same interesting subject has been discussed by various 
correspondents in our Mag. Nat. Hist., v. 91. 303. 395. 770. ; 
but the phenomenon has only lately been explained satisfactorily 
in Jameson’s Philosophical Journal. It is there shown that it pro- 
ceeds from the motion of the water, mixing the frozen laminze at 
top with the water below, till the whole mass becomes cooled 
down to the freezing point, when crystallisation takes place, 


Gardening in the Neighbourhood of Ramsgate. 119 


beginning at the bottom and sides, as it does in the case of 
crystallisation of salts. Every gardener may prove the truth of 
this theory, if he will take the trouble of keeping the water of a 
small pond in motion, by stirring it while freezing. Possibly, 
if thorns were dragged through the water of canals full of weeds, 
by men on the banks of both sides, during the frosts of winter, 
when labour is cheap, the weeds, when a thaw should take place, 
might be separated from the soil at the bottom of the pond or 
canal more cheaply and effectually than they could by mowing. 
This might be tried on a small scale. 


(To be continued.) 


Art. II. Remarks on the State of Gardening in the Neighbourhood of 
Ramsgate. By CALYCANTHUS. 
Sir, 

ALLow me to submit, for the perusal of your distant corre- 
spondents, a few casual observations on the state of gardening 
in this neighbourhood. 

The natural formation of the country is not favourable for 
any display of the picturesque. Almost the whole of it is 
arable, and in a very high state of cultivation; indeed, there is 
but one park, properly so called, in the Isle of Thanet, and 
that is 

Quex, the Seat of J. P. Powell, Esq.— There is no particular 
beauty in any part of this park; and the house is singularly ill 
placed. I believe there is no sea view, even from the roof. 
Mr. Powell is an amateur in the science of bell-ringing, and has 
erected several fantastic and grotesque belfries in different parts 
of his grounds: one of them forms a prominent landmark to 
vessels off the coast. 

Piermont House, at Broadstairs, known to gardeners as For- 
syth’s Villa, formerly a celebrated place for plants, is and has 
long been sadly neglected; and there is not much, in any part 
of the outline, to redeem the present state of the details of its 
pleasure-ground. ‘The mansion stands high, and too much 
exposed ; but the view from it is pleasing. 

There are several villas in the neighbourhood, of which Kast 
Cliff Lodge, M. Montefiore, Esq.; Ellington, Major Garratt ; 
and Hartsdown, Taddy, Esq., are, I think, the most con- 
siderable. ‘There are no striking features in any of these, 
farther than the natural beauties of sea, land, and trees com- 
bined; the last very sparingly. At Kast Cliff there has been 
considerable expense incurred in the erection of towers, tur- 
reted walls, &c., of flint. The effect is curious, but petty and 
trifling. 


1 4 


120 Notices of some Country Seats 


The Farmers of the Isle of Thanet are, in general, a well 
educated and rather superior class. Their gardens are well 
supplied with showy flowers, and, in many cases, laid out with 
considerable taste. Many of the farm houses and buildings are 
of flint; and this material gives a picturesque and pleasing effect 
to simple forms. 

As I write merely for the benefit of my brother-gardeners, I 
shall not refer to the numerous published descriptions of the 
Isle of Thanet farther than to observe that they either omit, or 
give a very slight notice of, the village of Dumpton, between 
Broadstairs and Ramsgate, and by far the most woody and 
rural spot in the isle, generally so bare of trees. 

The Villa of R. Croft, Esq. presents no particular feature of 
beauty, and is suffering much from neglect; but near it ts one of 
the prettiest farm houses I have ever seen. It is a genteel and 
commodious building, with stuccoed front and cottage roof, pro- 
jecting considerably. A dell, formerly a chalk pit, is in front of 
the house, and produces an excellent effect of shadow under 
two fine specimens of the ash and walnut; and very agreeably 
deceives the eye as to the extent of ground. 

As to Nurseries, there are none which can interest the scientific 
gardener or botanist. Fraser’s, at Ramsgate, contains a fair 
assortment of common and showy plants, and the usual kinds 
of fruit and other trees. Mr. Fraser himself is a man who 
deserves to be placed in a more favourable situation: he has 
travelled much; his manners are pleasing, and his attainments 
considerable; but there is no demand or custom in the neigh- 
bourhood for anything out of the common way; and necessity 
compels him to devote his attention to the growth of that which 
will remunerate him. 

The Growth of Ivy here is, I think, superior to what I have 
ever seen elsewhere, both in rapidity and vigour. The soil, 
being for the most part a very thin layer of loam on a sub- 
stratum of chalk, is admirably adapted for all evergreens. Of 
trees, the walnut, the ash, common elm, and wych elm, espe- 
cially the latter, attain the highest perfection. To sum up the 
whole, this is the land of agriculture, not of horticulture. 

Tam, Sir, yours, &c. 
Ramsgate, Oct. 3. 1833. CaLYCANTHUS. 


Art. III. Notices of some Country Seats in the North-Eastern Counties 
of England. By G. W. 
Sir, 
In your tour through England, in 1831, you did not visit the 
north-eastern counties, where there are some very splendid 


in the North-Eastern Counties. 121 


seats. I have, therefore, resolved to send you a short descrip- 
tion of some of the most magnificent of them, thinking that they 
may not be uninteresting to some of your readers. 

Lambton Castle, the seat of the Earl of Durham, an elegant 
Gothic edifice by Bonomi, is situated on a sloping bank close to the 
river Wear, six miles from the flourishing town of Sunderland. 
The principal drive emerges from the great turnpike road be- 
tween Durham and Newcastle, and passes over three miles of a 
well-wooded park. ‘The other approach leaves the Sunderland 
road close to a bridge where the road to the town of Chester le 
Street crosses the Wear. ‘This, although the shorter drive, is 
by far the more picturesque one; as it winds over a lofty surface. 
The river, before arriving at the castle, is crossed by a splendid 
stone bridge of one arch; the four corners being surmounted 
with the figures of four lambs cut out of solid stone. After 
leaving this bridge, the road winds up a valley, over which there 
is an elegant chain bridge which connects the pleasure-grounds. 
The principal view is from the south side of. the castle. A 
spacious terrace extends the whole length, from which, casting 
the eye over the machicollated wall (which is 20 ft. above and 
20 ft. under ground) to the deep expanse below, the lambs may 
be seen sporting close to the banks of the river with the tide 
flowing past, and the banks on the opposite side rising to a 
stupendous height, well clothed with old timber, and backed 
with an extensive deer park. Artificial borders for hardy and 
half-hardy shrubs and climbing plants occupy a considerable 
space along the south front, and are seen with fine effect from 
the terrace. 

The pleasure-grounds extend almost a mile to the west, 
through the middle of a wood that overhangs the river. There 
is a flower-garden, with a conservatory and banqueting-room ; 
and, at a small distance from this, a piece of enclosed ground, 
occupied with pits and frames for the propagation and preserv- 
ation of plants. The whole of the grounds, which are kept in 
excellent order, are under the management of Mr. Younger, an 
able and experienced florist from London. 

The kitchen-garden is half a mile to the east of the castle, 
and is approached by various walks leading through coppice 
woods appropriated chiefly to the preservation of game. The 
garden comprises eight acres ; four of which are enclosed in the 
form of a square, on a declivity close to the river. The hot- 
houses stand upon a terrace fifteen yards wide, and occupy the 
whole extent of the north wall. In the centre is a superb green- 
house with pine stoves, vineries, and peach and fig houses at 
each end, making a range of 500 ft., besides a range of pits and 
frames in a slip on the east. From the terrace walk, in front of 
the hot-houses, the view over the garden is superb. In the 


122 On the Advantages of visiting Gardens, 


middle of the garden is a reservoir, encircled with rockwork, 
interspersed with a profuse collection of plants. A portion of 
the east and south borders is sometimes inundated, being con- 
tiguous to the river; and is often, from its low situation, subject 
to injury from spring frosts. ‘The garden was laid out fifteen 
years ago on the most improved plan; and every department 
was finished in the most magnificent style. ‘The house for the 
principal gardener, Mr. Rule, is built on an eminence near the 
garden, and is the largest, best finished, and most commodious 
gardener’s house in the north of England, The pleasure-ground 
that surrounds this house accords well with the building. Some 
of your juvenile correspondents of late have complained of the 
want of proper accommodation for the gardeners’ assistants, 
which at most places is neglected. Here, however, the case is 
different; for there are two very commodious well-furnished 
rooms for four young gardeners, who superintend the forcing- 
houses, &c. In all its various departments this garden is well 
managed ; and it is particularly remarkable for excellent grapes 
and peaches. Before concluding, I may mention that the castle 
and all the adjoining buildings are lighted with gas, supplied 
from works erected solely for that purpose. 
I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

Staffordshire, Oct. 14. 1833. G. W. 


(To be continued.) 


Art. IV. On the Advantages which Gardeners may derive from in- 
specting the Gardens of others ; and on the Destruction of different 
Insects. By R. T. 

Sir, 

I THINK it is very much for the benefit both of ourselves and 
others, when we can take a peep at the grounds of our brethren, 
and, having made our observations, embrace the most favourable 
opportunity of exposing what we see amiss, in hopes that, when 
we call again, we may find an alteration. Now, Sir, as I know 
of no better plan for doing this effectually, and without giving 
offence to individuals, than publishing it in your Magazine, 
perhaps you will allow me to state a few objectionable things 
which, I doubt not, many others have often observed as well as 
myself, and which are ali easily to be remedied. Having the 
good fortune to serve a gentleman who keeps a horse for my 
accommodation, I have frequent opportunities both of improving 
myself, and also of detecting the errors of others. 

At one place where I called, I was no sooner shown into a 
vinery, than the noise of wasps was so great, that one would 
have almost imagined a swarm of bees had taken possession of 


and onthe Destruction of Insects. 123 


the house. I could not help expressing my surprise; and, 
having asked my conductor why they did not employ people to 
destroy their nests, I was told that they did; but that they did 
not find many. I then enquired what they were paid for each 
nest, and he told me three-pence. ‘This at once accounted for 
what I had seen and heard. If gentlemen wish their labourers 
to toil all their dinner time, and all their leisure hours in the 
evening, nay, perhaps half the night, in search of nests, and yet 
not to destroy above half a dozen, and to receive no higher a 
reward than three-pence each, it is no wonder that very few are 
found. One shilling each is the lowest that ought ever to be 
given for a wasps’ nest. But the best method to insure their 
destruction is to pay sixpence each for every queen wasp that 
can be caught in the spring, when the wasps are collecting 
materials with which to build their nests. This not only 
reduces the price by one half (as every queen has a nest), but 
it also destroys the wasps before they have done any mischief: 
whereas, by only paying for the nests, the men will often be 
tempted to let the queens escape. Besides, the nest may, per- 
haps, have acquired the size of a peck measure before it is 
found, and several thousands of wasps from it may have been 
destroying the fruit for months. So effectually have I known 
wasps destroyed by killing the queens early in the season, that, 
where it has been done, there has not been a single nest near 
the premises, while other people have had them in abundance. 

I beg now to call your attention to another of the common 
enemies of gardens, I mean the earthworms, which are often 
so numerous in bark beds, that they get into the pots, and do 
great injury to the pines and other plants plunged therein; and, 
although they are to be kept down without using what I am 
about to recommend, yet, as there are so many who seem not to 
know an effectual means of destroying them, it may not be amiss 
to inform such how it may be accomplished without danger or 
difficulty. After turning the tan in the usual manner, take some 
common salt, say about a quarter of a pound to a light ; let it be 
dry and broken fine; throw about half of it on the bed as regu- 
larly as you can; fork the surface over about the depth of the 
pots; then throw on the other half, and plunge the pots as 
usual. This will destroy all the worms it touches, and will pre- 
vent others from coming up from the bottom of the bed; and 
the quantity of salt used will not injure the plants, even if the 
roots get out of the pots. 

Worms and stagnant water are also great enemies to plants 
in large pots, especially when standing on the borders in green- 
houses during the winter, or on the ground out of doors in 
summer. A correspondent has recommended tubs for orange 
trees standing hollow from the ground, on this account; but 


124 Garden of the Rev. Thomas Garnier, 


where these are not used, take a piece of slate the size of 
the bottom of the pot, and place it where the pot is to stand ; 
then take three small stones, or any thing else, and place them 
between it and the pot: this will permit the water to drain 
away, and prevent the worms from getting in. 

Worms and slugs are also very destructive to crops of potatoes, 
especially if it happens to be a wet season for planting; and 
many persons suppose that the bad crop is owing to the wet 
having rotted the sets, when, upon examination, it has been 
found that they have been destroyed by worms and slugs. To 
prevent this, as soon as the potatoes are cut, spread the sets thinly 
on the ground, and throw a small quantity of quicklime over 
them; then turn them up together, when the moisture of the 
potatoes will cause the lime to slake, and form a thin coat over 
the sets, which will save them. If the sets (or whole potatoes, 
where these are used) are too dry to slake the lime, they may 
be sprinkled lightly with water previously to putting the lime on. 

Another thing looks very bad in many collections of plants; this 
is, a dirty flower-pot, oftentimes as green all over as the leaves 
of the plant it contains. To prevent this green accumulating, 
take care that all empty pots are kept clean; and, in a wet day, 
let a man take a few pots of each size, and, looking over the 
houses, let him gently turn any plants out that require it, and 
put them into clean pots of the same size. ‘This may be easily 
done without making a litter. 

Perhaps some of your readers will think the above hardly 
worth sending to your Magazine; but there are others who are 
not so well informed, and who, like myself, are glad of any 
friendly hint, and thankful for any information they may receive. 
It is for such I write: and should you think this worthy your 
notice, I may, perhaps, at some future time, trouble you again. 
The foregoing remarks being applicable at this season of the 
year, I thought it best to begin with them. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Middlesex, Feb. 1834. Raw: 


Art. V. Descriptive Notice of the Garden of the Rev. Thomas 
Garnier, at Bishopstoke Vicarage, Hampshire. By the ConpucTor. 


WE called at this place, August 20. 1833, and the following 
notice of it was made the same evening, at Southampton. 

Bishopstoke Vicarage, the Rev. Thos. Garnier. — August 20. 
This is a place of an acre or two, on a bank facing the south, 
remarkable for its wall, covered with choice half-hardy plants, 
and its lawn, ornamented with the finest American shrubs and 


at Bishopstoke Vicarage, Hampshire. 125 


most select trees. It is a perfect gem of botanical beauty in the 
foreground, heightened in effect by interesting gleams of distant 
scenery, seen between and over fine oaks and elms, on the lower 
part of the declivity. 

In order to give our readers a correct idea of the details of 
this garden, so exceedingly rich in choice plants, we applied to 
Mr. Garnier for a ground plan; and he has obligingly had one 
prepared for us, of which fg. 11. is an engraving. He has also 
sent us a small view of the vicarage house. (fg. 10.) The fol- 
lowing are the details of the plan: — 

1. Rhododéndron maximum, new. 2. Pink-flowering thorn. _ 3. Bed of a variety of choice roses. 

4. Bed of pinks in summer, China asters in autumn. 5. Cérnus flérida. 6. Rhododéndron, 

a new variety. 7. Rhododéndron catawbiénse. 8. Small bed of Verbéna chameedrifdlia. 


9. Large azalea, 
10. A’rbutus. 11. Portugal laurel. 12. Laurustinus. 13, Bed of heartseases. 14. Variegated 


xhododendron. 15. Rhododéndron datricum atro-virens. 16, Large narrow-leafed bay. 
Me Rhododéndron pénticum. 18. Two superb elms. 19. Bed of a variety cf herbaceous 
plants. 


20. Azalea dedifdlia (indica Alba). 21. Round bed of herbaceous plants. 22. Rhododéndron pén- 
ticum. 23. Rhododendron, hybrid. 24. Rhododendron, hybrid. 25. Oval bed of pelar- 


goniums, stocks, and sorts of Rdsa odorata. 26. Laurustinus. 27. Rhododéndron vbseum. 
28. Kalméa latifélia. 29. Clump of American plants. 
30. Htmea élegans. 31. Oval bed of choice herbaceous plants. 32. Large Rhododéndron 


arbdreum., 33. Pxonia Moidtan. 34. Rhododéndron alta-clerénse. 35. Magnodlza grandi- 
flora, 26 ft. square. 
Growing under veranda : — 36. Caméllia japénica myrtif lia, Camélléa striped, orange-leafed myrtle, 


and citron. 37. Magnificent broad-leafed myrtle. &8. Caméllia japénica atrérubens. 
39. Caméllia japénica, double white 40. Caméllia japénica Pomponia. 41. Caméll7a 
japénica peonieflora, and double striped ; and stand of pelargoniums. 

42. Magnolia grandiflora. 43. Rosa Banksie. 44. Magndlia purpurea. 45. Jasminum 


revoliitum. 46. Magnolia grandiflora, 30 ft. high. 47. Noisette rose. 48. Long bank of 
the choicest American plants, chiefly consisting of the new hybrid rhodcdendrons ; and in- 
cluding all the new varieties of Azalea indica. 49. Vibtrnum lticidum. 

50. Azcuba japonica. 51. Vase containing pelargoniums, blue lobelias, and Lophospérmum eru- 
béscens. 52. Rhododéndron catawbiénse, variety. 53. Standard Magnolia grandiflora. 
54, Vase, containing scarlet pelargoniums and Maurandya Barclayadna. 55. Standard Caméllza 
japénica. 56. Azalea rhododendron, hybrid. 57. Magnodléa purpirea. 58. Vase, contain- 
ing pelargoniums, and Verbéna chamedrif Ddlia. 59. Very large elm, with seats. 

60. Hhododéndron arbdreum. 61. Vase of scarlet pelargoniums, and pink Mauréndya [? semper- 
fldrens]. 62. Ficus elastica. 63. Red cedar. Juniperus virginiana. 64, Bed of pinks in 
summer, China asters in autumn. 65. Azcubajapénica. 66, Nérium plénum [? N. Oleander 
var. spléndens]. 67. Round bed of scarlet and white varieties of georgina. 68. Oval bed of 
herbaceous plants. 69. Fachsia gracilis. 

70. Chiondnthus [?] falgida. 71. Bérberis diversifdlia. 72. Ytcca gloridsa. 73. Oval bed of 
Rosa odorata and of Calvert’s Noisette roses. 74. Pinus Webbidna. 75. Oval bed of tree 
and dwarf roses. 76. Azalea indica alba. 77. Large standard single-flowered camellia. 
78. Oval bed of varieties of hybrid rhododendrons and azaleas. 79. Rhododéndron arbdreum, 

80. Large mass of rhododendrons. 81. Round bed of choice azaleas. 82. Rhododéndron mag- 
nolief dlium. 83. Azalea nudifldra coccinea. 84. Bed of varieties of georginas. 85. Ligts- 
trum licidum, 86. Kalmza latifdlia. 87. Aristotélia Mdcqui, new variety. 88. Bed of 
hydrangeas. 89. Araucaria imbricata. 


126 Garden of the Rev. Thomas Garnier, 


90. Clump of rhododendrons. 9]. Round bed of georginas. 92. Edwardsza grandifldra. 
93, Three fine elms in a group. 94, Photinia serrulata, 95. Large vase. 96. Rhododén- 
dron microph¥llum. 97. Very large rhododendron. 98. Oval bed of choice herbaceous 
plants. 99, A very large spreading oak tree, with seats. 


100. Bed of choice herbaceous plants. 101. Magndléa auriculata. 102. Malachodéndron ovatum. 
103. Magnodlza glatca. 104. Very large clump of rhododendrons. 105. Cotoneaster micro- 
phYlla. 106. Bed of sorts of Chinese chrysanthemums. 107. Rhododendron azalea, hybrid. 
108. Bed of twelve of Calvert’s new varieties of Rdsa odorata and standard perpetuals. 109. Gor. 
dodnia pubéscens. 

110. Drace‘na australis. 111. Standard Cyddnia japénica. 112. Azalea. 113. Bed of choice 
azaleas. 114. Magnodlza citrioddra, 115. Pxdnia Moutan 7dsea. 116. Pyrus spectabilis, 
large. 117. Edwardsia grandiflora. 118. Large arbutus. 119. Daphne pontica. 

120. Chimonanthus fragrans. 121. Large Rhododendron catawbiense. 122. Large rhododen- 
dron and large bay tree. 123. Kalmia latifolia. 124, Oval bed of choice herbaceous plants. 
125. Magndlia conspicua. 126. Magnolia cordata. 127. Round bed of Lobéla falgens and 
of double tuberoses, 128. Magnodlza maxima. 129, Eriobétrya japénica. 


130. Round bed of tree and dwarf roses. 131. Magndlia Thompsonzana. 132. Magndlia pur- 
purea. 133. Magnolia macrophylla. 134. Oval bed of dwarf georginas. 155. A’rbutus 
procéra. 136. Magndlza acuminata. 137. Clump of rhododendrons. 138. Bed of pelar- 
goniums, border of German stocks. 139. Covered seat made with reeds. 


140. Fachsza microphflla. 141. Rhododéndron Smithzz. 142. Clump of evergreens and rhodo- 
dendrons. 143. Oval bed of choice azaleas, 144. Round bed of camellias. 145. Pednia 
Motitan papaveracea. 146. Cupréssus lusitanica. 147. Magnolia glauca. 148. Round bed 
of azaleas. 149. Weeping willow. 

150. Bérberis fascicularis. 151. Osminda regalis. 152 Oval bed of herbaceous plants. 
153. Pinus occidentalis. 154. Oval bed of Calvert’s Noisettes. 155. Rhododéndron arbdreum 
maximum. 156. Rhododéndron 7dseum. 157. Oval bed of herbaceous plants. 158. Aris- 
totélia Macquz. 159. Magndlia purptrea. 


160. Bed for georginas. 161. Araucdria brasiliana. 162. Drace*na ovata. 163. Cedar of 
Lebanon. 164. Magnolia glatica. 165. Vaccinium uligindsum. 166. Rhododéndron (old) 
maximum. 167. Kalmia latifolia. 168. Single red camellia. 169. Rhododéndron Alta- 
clerénse. 


170. Magndlia tripétala. 171. Oval bed of Cydonia japénica, red and white. 172. Large azalea. 
173. Round bed of georginas. 174. Magndiia Thompsonzana. 175, Round bed of Verbéna 
chamedrifdlia and of Thunbérgza alata. 176. Ribes sanguineum, 177. Rhododéndyon 
ponticum. 178. Rhododendron. 179. Oval bed of azaleas. 


at Bishopstoke Vicarage, Hampshire. 127 


4 
tS 
(2 
ef 
>. 
%, 
‘) 


ai 


ieee 2104 Bl60 1a 
= 161& 
159{% 15 oe 


278 


180. Bed of Verbéna vendsa. 181. Sophora japénica péndula. 182. A’sculus rubicdinda (rdsea 
Bot. Reg.). 183. Robinza hispida arborea. 184. Bed of herbaceous plants. 185. Chionan- 
thus maritima. 186. Oval clump of rhododendrons. 187. A’rbutus longifolia. 188. Cra- 
te‘gus Azarélus. 189. Rhododéndron catawbiénse. 

190. Myrtle. 191. Large yellow azalea. 192. Variegated holly. . 193. Broussonétia papyrifera. 


194, ChionAnthus virginica. 195. Juniperus bermudiana. 196. Round bed of azaleas. 
197. Large American bed. 198. Late-flowering azalea. 199. Magndlia auriculata. 
200. Oval bed of varieties of Lobélza. 201. Sophdra japonica. 202. Oval bed for flowers. 


203. Erica arborea. 204. Rhododendron, new variety. 205. Rhododendron. 206. Raphidé- 
lepis indica. 207. Tiex myrtifodlia, 208. Bed of anemone-flowered georginas. 209. Cun- 
ninghamia lanceolata. , 

210. Round bed of varieties of pelargoniums. 211. Diospyrus Lotus. 212. Gleditschza hérrida. 
913. Rhododéndron (new) maximum. 214. Large Kalmia latifolia. 215. Prinos nepalénsis. 
216. Catdlpa syringefolia, 217. Rhamnus latifdlius. 218. Chinese arbor-vite, Thuja orientalis. 
219. Bérberis fascicularis. 

290. Large Magndlia tripétala. 221. Cupréssus pendula [? Schubért/a disticha pendula]. 222. Round 
bed of lily of the valley. 223. Myrtle. 294. Hydrangea. 225. Rhododendron, new 
variety. 226. Arbutus. 227. Bed of Scotch roses. 228. Rhododendron. 229. Schinus. 

230. Holly. 231. Oval bed of American plants. 932. Bed of dark China rose. 233. Lédum 


latifolium. 234. Rhododendron. 235. Round bed of sorts of Erica. 236. Eugenia. 
237, Rhododendron. 938. Rhododendron, a new variety. 939. Davata denticulata. 

240. Yucca gloridsa. 241. Variegated rhododendron. 242, Pavia discolor. 243. Round 
clump of American plants. 244. Magnolia cordata. 245. Ulex stricta. 246, A’rbutus 
speciosa. 947. Oval bed of China roses. 248. Azalea. 249. Rhododendron. 

250. Seedling rhododendron. 251. Ammyrsine buxifolia. 259. Large bed of rhododendrons. 


253. Dark Ribes sanguineum. 254. Virgilia ldtea. 255. Dwarf hollyhocks. 256. Bed of 
hollyhocks. 257. Raund bed of Lobéléa specidsa, &c. 258. Laburnum. 259. Rhododen- 


960. Bed of double tulips in spring, scarlet pelargoniums in summer. 961. Bed of single tulips in 
spring, of heliotropes in summer. 262. Conservatory. 263. C¥tisus purpireus. 264. The 
wall, covered with a collection of choice plants, of which Mr. Loudon has a particular account 
in his possession. [See p.°129.] 265. The inner circle, occupied by tree roses and dwarf 
georginas ; the two next circles, different sorts of dwarf roses ; outer circle, collection of herb- 
aceous plants of the brightest colours. 266. Fence of evergreens. 267. Shrubbery of ever- 
greens and large trees. 268. Entrance to kitchen-garden, with trellis. 269. Covered seat of 


wood. 970. Undulating ground, with large trees. 


128 Garden of the Rev. Thomas Garnier, 


The first thing we saw, on entering Mr. Garnier’s grounds, was 
a Magnolza grandiflora against the house, 27 ft. high and about 
25 ft. wide, which was transplanted in the month of August, 
when in flower, 12 years ago, without sustaining the least injury ;_ 
the reason being, that every root and fibre was preserved, and 

the latter not exposed to the air for more than five minutes. 
_ There are other magnolias against the house, equally high. ‘The 
wall, against which are trained so many fine plants, has been 
built about six years, and is about 10 ft. high, with a coping 
projecting about nine inches, and a copper trough to collect the 
rain which falls on it; the latter is found to be a great protection 
to the rects of the shrubs, and to the herbaceous plants below. 
Among the plants on the wall, the more uncommon are several 
of the New Holland species, of the genera Acacia, Metrosidéros, 
Eucalyptus, Melaleuca, &c. 

The herbaceous plants, at the base of the wall, are several 
Amaryllide@; ixias, and other Jrideze; and a good collection of 
mesembryanthemums. Among the plants on the lawn are 
groups of camellias, which stand the winter without any pro- 
tection, the loquat, myrtles, tree rhododendrons, araucarias; 4 bies 
Webbzana, and other rare species ; all the magnolias, including 
maxima, and that variety of conspicua which is named citriod6ra ; 
the former has flowered, but it dropped without the colour having 
been ascertained. We must, from necessity, pass over the names 
of a great number of other valuable plants, as well on the lawn 
as on the wall, and conclude by noticing a very neat span-roofed 
conservatory, designed by Mr. Page, and placed on a plinth of 
three steps, which forms a termination to the terrace walk. 
The outer border of this walk is ornamented with vases, placed 
at regular distances. 

Among the general principles which regulate Mr. Garnier’s 
management, we shall mention three of preeminent importance: 
first, he arranges all his flowers and shrubs in masses of one 
kind, even to the varieties of Georgzna, by which he produces 
brilliant masses of the same colour ; secondly, all his groups and 
masses are of plain forms, such as circles, ovals, squares, and 
parallelograms, in the genuine English manner, adopted by 
Mason in the flower-garden at Nuneham Courtenay, and by the 
late Major Price, in the flower-garden at Mongewell ; thirdly, 
he transplants the azaleas, rhododendrons, and other American 
shrubs every year, and at any season of the year, so as to keep 
every individual plant detached from the rest, though close to 
them (we saw some beds of azaleas and rhododendrons, which 
had just been removed, looking perfectly well, notwithstanding 
the extraordinary dryness of the season) ; and, fourthly, his great 
secret in acclimatising, or, in other words, in enabling tender 
plants to stand the winter in the open air, is to have a perfectly 


at Bishopstoke Vicarage, Hampshire. 129 


dry subsoil. The owners of gardens will see, from this, that, 
when a flower-garden or shrubbery is planted, the work is but 
commenced, and that the care and labour afterwards must be 
continual. 

We have been subsequently informed that the exotic plants 
against the conservatory wall are covered, during the most severe 
weather in winter, with common garden matting. ‘The coping 
of this wall has a copper guttering, making an entire projection 
of eight inches, which, besides keeping off all perpendicular rain 
from the wall and the border at its foot, is a protection from 
perpendicular cold. The soil required for each exotic planted 
against this wall is renewed every other year; and, in order to do 
this to the larger articles, the gravel of the terrace walk in front 
requires to be removed. 

The American shrubs grow so vigorcusly in the groups on 
the lawn, that they are taken up and replanted every two years, 
generally in the month of September. The azaleas and rho- 
dodendrons are taken up with large balls cf earth, and the 
ground is so well watered, at the time of replanting, that the 
plants never lose any of their leaves. They are placed at such 
distances as nearly to touch one another; so that, if they were 
not taken up, and placed farther apart, every two years, they 
would soon form a matted thicket, and display blossom only 
on their upper surface; whereas, by keeping each plant distinct, 
it displays its blossoms all round from the ground to the summit. 
The soil in which these American plants are grown is composed 
of two thirds of sandy peat and one third of rich loam. The ~ 
loam is absolutely necessary to promote the vigorous growth of 
azaleas, rhododendrons, and almost all kinds of American shrubs. 
[See p. 33.] 

The great advantage of this garden is, its being situated on 
a very dry subsoil, without which it is in vain to try to accli- 
matise such plants as, from the list below, will be found to grow 
freely, some on the open lawn, and others against the conserva- 
tory wall. ‘The great mischief to all tender plants is produced 
by the late hoar-frosts in March and April, which are generally 
followed by very hot sunny days; but, when exotics are planted 
in a genial soil placed on a very dry subsoil, and in a warm 
sheltered situation, they ripen their wood so well in the autumn, 
that they are much better conditioned to resist hoar-frosts, and 
that scorching of the young leaves, which is produced by suc- 
ceeding sunshine, than such as are planted in rich soils: though 
the latter may grow more luxuriantly, they never can ripen their 
wood. 

The following list of the ligneous plants which were growing 
against this wall, when we saw it, was furnished by Mr. Ingram, 
formerly foreman to Mr. Page : — 

Vou. X.— No. 49. K 


130 


Caprifolium flexudsum, japdénicum, spe- 
ciosum. 

Pinica Granatum, G. plenum, G. 
flavum. 

Rosa odorata, élegans, microphylla, 
lutéscens, Banksie, B. lutea, 
Charles the Tenth. 

Myrtus communis, c. flore pléno, c. 
romana, c. variegata. 

Celastrus scandens. 

Clématis florida fl. pléno. 

Daphne indica, Dauphini (hybrida). 

Pitt6sporum Zodira. 

Wistaria Consequana, frutéscens. 

O‘lea fragrans. 

Acacia dealbata. 

Técoma (Bignonia) grandiflora, ra- 
dicans. 


Garden of the Rev. Thomas Garnier. 


Chimondanthus fragrans, f. grandiflorus, 
f. luteus. 

Magnolia Soulangidna, gracilis, pur- 
purea. 

Vibtirnum rugosum, odoratissimum. 

Metrosidéros lanceolata. 

Plumbago capénsis. 

Fuchsia gracilis. 

Cinnamomum Camphora. 

Sdéllya heterophylla. 

Lophospérmum erubéscens. 

Cleéthra arborea. 

Eucalyptus obliqua. 

Ceanothus azureus. 

Caméllia japénica Pomponia, j. pléna 
alba, j. atrérubens. 

Citrus decumana, Aurantium. 


The following list of trees and shrubs, which stand singly on 
the turf, is also furnished by Mr. Ingram :— 


Magnolia grandiflora, g. ferruginea, 
g. exoniénsis, conspicua, cordata, 
maxima, Thompsonidna, longifolia, 
acuminata, auriculata, pyramidata, 
Soulangedna, tomentosa, citriodéra, 
tripétala, macrophylla, purpurea, 
gracilis. 

Peonia Moitan, M. rosea, M. papa- 
veracea. 

Piptanthus nepalénsis. 

Cydonia japdniea, j. alba. 

A’rbutus Andrachne, serratifolia, lon- 
gifolia, canariénsis. 

Daphne péntica. 

#hamnus latifolius. 

Myrtus communis. 

Prinos glaber, verticillatus. 

Pinica Granatum, G. flavum. 

Cornus florida. 

Ribes sanguineum, new var. 

Virgilia capénsis. 

Staphylea trifolia. 

Aralia spinosa. 

Gleditschza hérrida. 

Osminda regalis x. 

Yucca gloridsa, filamentosa, variegata. 

Phormium ténax. 

Cotoneaster microphylla. 

Eriobétrya japoniea. 

Pinus longitolia, Webbiena, Cémbra. 

Cunninghamia lanceolata. 


Stuartéa virginica. 

Malachodéndron ovatum. 

Ligistrum lucidum. 

Chimonanthus maritima, virginica. 

Photinia serrulata. 

Schubértia disticha, d. péndula. 

Juniperus bermudiana. 

Cupréssus lusitanica. 

Sophora japonica, j. péndula. 

Edwardsza microphylla, grandiflora. 

Gordonia pubéscens. 

Salsola fruticosa (Chenopodium fru- 
ticdsum ). 

4E’sculus rubictnda (rosea Bot. Reg.), 
carnea, pallida. 

Pavia flava. 

Thuja orientalis. 

Catalpa syringefolia. 

Aristotelia Mdcqui. 

Bérberis ilicifolia, sibirica, aristata, 
sinénsis, répens. 

Mahonia Aquifolium, fascicularis, di- 
versifolia. 

Robinia hispida. 

Broussonétia papyrifera. 

Dracze‘na australis. 

Araucaria imbricata, brasiliana. 

Eight hybrid rhododendrons. 

Rhododéndron arboreum, Smith, 
catawbiénse, roseum, ponticum. 


In the American beds are the following shrubs : — 


Camellia japénica alba, j. cérnea, j. 
myrtifolia, j. anemoniflora, j. fim- 
briata, j. rubra, j. rubra pléna, j. 
semiduplex, j. peoniefiora, j. Wel- 
bank#, j. flavéscens, j. Pomponia. 


Azalea sinénsis, pontica, p. glatca, 
p- albiflora, p. tricolor, p. 7dsea, 
p- globosa, p. discolor, p. cuprea ; 
indica alba, i. purpurea plena, 1. 
aurantiaca, i. phoenicea, i. hybrida, 


Floricultural Memoranda. 131 


calendulacea; c. crdcea, c. chry- 
solécta, c. grandiflora, c. spléndens ; 
nudiflora alba, n. corymbosa; n. 
crispa, n. globésa, n. mirabilis, n. 
magnifica, n. papilionacea, n. rosea, 
n. rubéscens, n. staminea, n. vio- 
Jacea, n. versicolor, n. versicolor 
major; tricolor, viscésa; vy. odo- 


hispida, salicifolia, coccinea, coc- 
cinea major, céncolor, spuria spe- 
cidsa, cuprina, poincianiflora, prece- 
déntior, mixta triamphans, nobilis, 
venustissima, flavéola, preestant{s- 
sima, insignis, ne plus ultra, ventsta, 
eloria mundi, speciosissima, Smithi, 
Smith coccinea, erythree‘a, Car- 


rata, v. crispa, v. vittata, v. pubés- ton), Herbertidna, 


cens, v. rubéscens; nitida, glatica, 


Art. VI. Floricultural Memoranda. By Mr. T. Rivers, Jun., 


Sawbridgeworth, Herts. 


WHITE Schizanthus, White Clarkia, §c.—I have long been 
amused with the propensity which some flowers, after being intro- 
duced to our gardens, show to vary in colour when propagated 
by seed. To a man of leisure and observation, it would be worth 
while to notice how many years, on the average, elapse before 
this generally takes place. It reminds me much of the varied 
hues of tame pigeons, tame rabbits, &c., so totally opposite to 
the sober tints of their wild progenitors. 

The same season that the Potentilla Russellzéna came from 
seed, being a regular hybrid between P. formosa and P. atro- 
sanguinea, I had a seedling as nearly as possible the same, with- 
out artificial aid. In the summer of 1833, after seeing, in IX. 
465., a notice of Mr. Priest’s white schizanthus at Reading, I 
observed one here in a bed of seedlings, pure white, with “ithe 
yellow eye of the original. Clarka pulchélla has also sported 
into purity ; but, of all the freaks of nature, those displayed i in the 
georginas are the most wonderful. About twenty years since, I 
remember my father purchasing some “ very rare plants called 
dahlias,” of Messrs. Lee and Kennedy of Hammersmith: the 
first season, though taken great care of, they would not bloom, 
but put forth plenty of elder-like leaves, till the frost killed them ; 
the next season they showed a few flowers, and, as is often the 
case with novelties, gave all our brilliant anticipations a terrible 
blow; for who could admire such dingy, copper-coloured, and 
dull purple star-shaped flowers ? and who but the initiated could 
suppose that all the brilliant and superb varieties now in cultiva- 
tion could spring from such an origin ? 

Crocuses.—Nothing is perhaps more interesting than raising 
seedling crocuses. They bloom in three years, and it is wonder- 
ful to see the variety that will be found in one bed ; not only in 
their colour, but in their time of flowering. Some of the varieties 
have varied as much as six weeks, and thus produced a regular 
succession of bloom. 


Roses. — Perhaps my taste may be singular and formal, but 
kK 2 


132 Floricultural Memoranda. 


roses always appear to me to have the prettiest effect when 
budded on neat stems, varying from 1 ft. to 4 ft. in height: they 
are more easily removed, are nearer to the eye, and their per- 
fume is more readily inhaled. ‘They will soon get over the 
habit of throwing up suckers, which with some is an objection, 
if care is taken, when they are removed, to disbud the lower part 
of the stem, and to take off those roots which seem to have a 
tendency to throw up suckers. When thus treated, they form 
pretty compact heads, and yet not lumpish, if properly pruned. 
We shall soon have as many roses in November as we used to 
have in June: some recent additions to our perpetual roses from 
France are likely to prove extremely valuable. I hope next 
summer to send you a new descriptive catalogue of roses, more 
worthy of attention than my last, which, I should tell you, was 
also my first. 

Pillars of Roses. — One of the prettiest floral fancies of the pre- 
sent day is that of forming pillars of roses. ‘These pillars consist of 
roses trained on iron stakes, from 12 ft. to 15 ft. high, well 
painted ; and they form the most durable, as well as the most 
picturesque, objects in garden scenery. During the ensuing 
summer, I intend to make an accurate list of all the Noisette 
roses that are suitable for training in this mode. ‘These, with 
some of the Ile de Bourbon varieties, added to the already 
numerous and decided climbing roses, will make a magnificent 
display. Merely to show how a heap of clay may become a 
mount of beauty, I last spring levelled and made circular a large 
quantity of white and blue clay, dug from a pit to contain water : 
on this, with a small portion of dung and pit sand to each plant, 
I planted some of all the hardy climbing roses. The effect is 
now beautiful; and another summer it will be a mount of rose 
pillars, each from eight to ten feet high. 

The best Stocks for Roses. — A prejudice is often found to exist 
against budded roses, and this has arisen principally on account 
of improper stocks being used. Most decidedly, roses never 
bloom so finely as when budded, and the most proper and durable 
stock is Rosa canina, with its varieties; while Rdsa arvénsis is, 
perhaps, the worst. In our nursery we have a great variety of 
soil in a small extent of ground. We have fourteen acres of 
strong dark clay; secondly, and within ten yards of the clay, 
seven acres of sand; and then eight acres of fine soapy loam, 
and at a short distance rich loose black vegetable soil. I need 
not say, all this is very convenient; in our clay dressed with 
sand, roses grow to admiration; and you will think I pursue my 
(genus) Osa with some ardour, when I can assert with safety 
that this season we have 25,000 rose stocks, budded and to bud, 
exclusive of our numerous China roses and roses upon their own 
roots. In truth, from June to October, the air of our nursery 


Floricultural Memoranda. 133 


is “ redolent of roses.” The Jate Sir John Malcolm, once joking 
me on my passion for roses, said that I should have breakfasted 
with him in Persia; for, when on his embassy there, to compli- 
ment him, they raised an immense heap, or rather mountain, of 
rose leaves (it being the season for gathering them), and made 
him take his morning repast on its summit. 

Alpines and Herbaceous Plants we grow extensively; and 
the following is, perhaps, the most economical as well as the 
most pleasing method of growing all those of delicate habits 
and small flowers. On the north side of a hornbeam hedge 
is a raised platform, 3 ft. wide, formed of two brick walls, 
each 18in. high and 4 in. thick, with a hollow space between 
them, 3 ft. wide, filled with earth, and paved with slates or 
tiles bedded in mortar. On the tiles are placed the pots, very 
close together, not plunged in the summer, being shaded by 
the hedge, and kept ‘well watered, they flourish admirably ; 
and, when the different species bloom, they are placed so 
much nearer the eye, that their beauties tell with more effect. 
On the front edge a painted slip of deal is nailed to small piles 
let in the brickwork. ‘This gives a finish to the whole, and 
prevents the pots from being displaced. A hornbeam hedge is 
better than any other, for in summer there is plenty of shade ; 
but, in autumn and spring, as it loses the greater part of its 
foliage, it admits the sun and air.. The worms, the greatest of 
all enemies to alpine plants in pots, are in this manner com- 
pletely baffled, and the plants seem to enjoy the trifling elevation, 
as if they were growing on their native rocks; besides which 
(this is the economical part), they are never removed to winter 
quarters, but stand here all the season, merely covered with 
fern about nine inches thick, laid high in the centre of the 
platform, and over the fern a single covering of small Prussian 
mats, which are much better than the large mats. ‘They are 
the exact width of the platform; and, from the fern being elevated 
in the middle, and their close texture, all the heavy winter rains 
run off. As the wind is apt to displace these mats, some poles 
are laid on each outer edge, which keeps them firm. My plat- 
form has been covered this last month or five weeks, from the 
end of December to the end of January; and, in spite of the very 
heavy storms that we have had, we find the plants all dry and in 
excellent order. Keeping them from superabundant moisture is 
a great object; for frost, if it gets through the fern and mats, 
has no injurious effect, if the mould in the pots is dry. At in- 
tervals of mild weather, in February, they should be uncovered. 

'T. Rivers, Jun. 
Nursery, Sawbridgeworth, Herts, 
Feb. 1834. 


9 


Ko 


134 Culture of Vxie and Gladioli. 


Art. VII. A Note on the Culture of Vxie and Gladioli. 
By Mr. T. Rutcer. 
Sir, 

FEELING dissatisfied with what I had seen of the flowering 
of these bulbs in the nurseries round London, as well as with 
those under my own care, I was resolved to try the effect of a 
different soil from that generally recommended [which is, we be- 
lieve, heath mould, with an admixture of a small proportion of 
loam], and not cramming so many of them together in a pot as 
is usually done. The soil used was, one half rich loam, with one 
fourth of rotten dung, and one fourth leaf mould, both well 
decomposed and mixed up together with the loam: the pots 
were well drained, and a layer of the siftings of the dung and 
leaf mould was put over the drainings. Of the smaller sorts of 
bulbs I put only two or three into a 48-sized pot; of the larger, 
only one ina pot of the same size; and of the largest, only one 
in a 32-sized pot. During their growth, and particularly when 
near flowering, the bulbs were liberally supplied with water. 
Under this mode of treatment, my desires were fully realised, 
and my bulbs produced fine flowers, far superior to any others 
that I have ever seen grown in pots. 

Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 
Shortgrove, Lissex, Feb. 1834. T. RutceEer. 


Art. VIII. The Result of Experiments tried with Coal Cinders as 
Drainage for Pots. By Mr. Henry Turner, Curator of the Botanic 
Garden, Bury St. Edmunds. 


Sir, 

Havine seen an account in this Magazine (I. 224.) of a quan- 
tity of Chinese chrysanthemums being destroyed by having coal 
cinders placed in their pots for drainage, I resolved to try the 
effects of these cinders on other plants; and I am induced to 
send the result for your publication (if you think it worth a 
place), from observing that cinders are recommended for pot 
draining, in a communication to a contemporary gardening pe- 
riodical. 

Karly in May, 1833, I potted the following twenty species 
of plants, using cinders instead of potsherds. ‘The plants, being 
duly marked, were placed among others in the collection; and 
they, consequently, received the same attention that the other 
plants did, which were drained in the usual manner. In the 
beginning of October, I examined the plants drained with coal 
cinders, and found them in the following state: — 


Coal Cinders as Drainage for Pots. 135 


Number and Names of the Plants. State in which they were found. 
=a iN Dead. Sickly. Healthy. 
Delphinium sinénse - - - - 


Cirsium afrum = = e 5 
Silene marftima - = af 
Siléne marftima flore pléno - - 
Soldanélla alpina - = 3 
Papaver orientale - = Z 
Lythrum alatum - - = 2 
Erythrolz*‘na conspicua - - - 
Erigeron glabéllus - - - 
urpureus = 
Phlox tardiflora Penny y (longifldra ise) - 
crassifolia ES 
subulata - - = by 
@nothéra macrocarpa - - = 
missouriénsis - - 4 
acailis - - = 2 
speciosa - - - S 
Pyréthrum imodorum flore pléno - = 
Asclépias bombacina - - - 
Clématis Vidrna - - = > 


WEWWHNONWNOHENWONNNWNOND HWW HLWEH 
SwedonnoreDKHKHWOWDWDDWDWD WL 
Sma WOSDOeH eH OFM OOCOOCORK OH 
WNOrFGCNOQDQWOODOTSGOCONKOCOFSC SO 


It will be perceived that, out of fifty plants, twenty-eight died, 
and ten were so sickly that I threw them away: twelve only 
remained in a healthy state. 

Cinders or coal ashes are also injurious to some plants, when 
the pots containing them are plunged in the coal ashes, as it will 
appear by the following fact. The varieties of Chrysanthemum 
sinénse, which were cultivated in this garden in 1832, were 
plunged about 2 in. below the rims of their pots, at the base of 
a south wall, for flowering. After flowering (late in November) 
they were taken up with their roots hanging in all directions 
over the pots, and plunged in a two-light frame, one division of 
which was filled with cinder ashes, and the other with common 
garden soil. In March, 1833, the whole of those plunged in 
the ashes were pale and sickly, while those plunged in the soil 
were all robust and healthy; thus proving that coal ashes, as 
well as cinders, are detrimental to some plants, among which the 
Chinese chrysanthemums may probably take the lead. 

If any of your correspondents would proceed in the prosecu- 
tion of the enquiry of how far cinders may be used for draining, 
or what kinds of plants they injure, and what they do not, and 
would publish the results in your Magazine, the facts contributed 
could not, when they had become numerous, but avail the de- 
duction of some useful general inference. In relation to this 
object, I contribute these. I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

H. Turner. 
Botanic Garden, Bury St. Edmunds, 
Dec. 5. 1833. 


kK 4 


136 


Machine for removing Plants in Tubs. 


Art. IX. Description of a Machine for removing Orange Trees and 


other Plants in large Tubs or Bozes. 


By Mr. Jonn Davipson, 


Gardener to the Marquess of Ailsa, at St. Margaret’s, Middlesex. 


Sir, 


In consequence of the great inconvenience hitherto experienced 
in the removal of large orange trees, in tubs or boxes, from the 


ty 


X 


WE: 
a 
0) 


orangery to the plea- 
sure-grounds, &c., I 
lately got made for the 
Marquess of Ailsa, by 
Messrs. Cooper and 
Hall, Drury Lane, 
London, a machine 
which answers the pur- 
pose exceedingly well, 
and of which I send 
you a sketch. (fg. 12.) 

This machine is of 
an oblong form, 4 ft. 
10 in. long, 4 ft. wide 
in the clear, and 3 ft. 


\| 
)\ 8in. high. It is fixed 
/ upon three cast-iron 


wheels; two of 30 in., 
and the other of 18 in. 
in diameter; the latter 
turning in a swivel, 


\ and acting as a guide 


to the machine. The 
frame is of oak, with 
a movable back, as 
shown in the sketch; 
and it is fastened by 
means of four strong 
iron pins dropping into 
iron plates upon the 
oak frame; which dif- 
fers from the others 
hitherto used in this 
country, in having no 
bottom. When a tree 
is to be emo ved, this 
movable back of the 
machine is taken off, 
and the machine 
pushed to the box, 
thereby, in a manner, 


Premature Shriveling of Grapes. 137 


clipping it; the back is then to be replaced, and two iron bars, 
with link ends, placed under the box; four chains from the 
rollers are then hooked into the link ends, and the chains are 
afterwards wound upon the rollers by means of a cast-iron wheel 
and pinion attached to the axis of the same, and worked by four 
hand-winches. This being done, the tree and box remain sus- 
pended in the centre; and there is a stopper to each pinion 
wheel, by the removal of which the chain is unwound, and the 
tree is, when required, lowered down gradually with rapidity 
and ease. : 

This machine possesses many advantages; namely, two men 
are hereby enabled to carry trees of upwards of a ton weight, 
which commonly require eight or ten men to effect their removal 
by a common truck. Also, in some instances, the entrances of 
orangeries or other houses are too contracted in height to 
_ admit of trees being removed upright, and it necessarily takes 
much time and labour to get them out safely by a common 
machine ; whereas by this one, the difficulty is entirely obviated ; 
for, by winding the chains on one of the rollers more than 
the others, the head of the tree becomes depressed in propor- 
tion, and the purpose is effected without any additional labour 
whatever. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
St. Margaret’s Gardens, Joun Davinson. 
INGUS 221833. 


Art. X. On the premature Shriveling of Grapes in Forcing- Houses. 
By Mr. J. D. Parxes, F.H.S., Nurseryman, Dartford. 


Sir, 

A VARIETY of causes have been assigned for that disease in 
forced grapes which produces a shriveled appearance in the 
footstalks of the bunches, and also a want of size and colour in 
the berries; more especially in the Frontignans and muscats, 
Some consider that it proceeds from the roots being too deep in 
the ground ; others think that it is occasioned by the temperature 
of the earth in which the root grows (when vines are planted 
outside the house) being so much lower that that of the atmo- 
sphere within; and some attribute the disease to a want of air. 

Having observed that early forced grapes are in general free 
from this disease, and that it never occurs to grapes grown in 
the open air; and having found, in a house under my care, that 
some bunches immediately over a steam-pipe were free from it ; 
I have come to the conclusion that the cause is, stagnation of 
cold moist air; and the remedy, the application of artificial heat, 
to such an extent (even in summer, when the weather is cloudy) 


138 On the Coiling System of 


as to admit, every warm day, of opening the windows sufficiently 
to occasion a free circulation of air. 

A gardener, to whom I stated this as my opinion of the subject, 
has practised my plan every year since, with the most complete 
success. 

Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 
Dartford Nursery, Jan. 20. 1834. J. D. Parkes. 


Art. XI. On the Coiling System of cultivating the Vine in Pots. By 
Mr. Jonn Mearns, F.H.S., Gardener to his Grace the Duke of 
Portland, Welbeck, Nottinghamshire. 

Sir, 

As I have communicated an account of my coiling system of 
cultivating the vine in pots to several persons, and have also 
given a statement of my experiments to the London Horticul- 
tural Society, I feel it to be a duty also to lay my practice 
before you. 

This coiling system is certainly a completely new feature, and, 
I think, a very valuable one, in the art of grape-growing. Is it 
not a matter of great importance that, in consequence of my 
discovery, a gardener, who may goto a situation, in the autumn, 
where no grapes have previously been growing, may be en- 
abled to produce there easily, for the ensuing season, from 500 
to 1000 bunches of fine grapes? All that are wanting to enable 
any gardener, so circumstanced, to do this, are, the prunings of 
the vines from any garden, that would otherwise be thrown 
away, and, of course, a convenient frame, pit, or house, for 
growing them in. If abundance of shoots can be procured, 
and there is a sufficient extent of frames, &c., either temporary or 
permanent, two, three, or five thousand bunches may thus be 
produced in a garden where grapes were never seen before. 

The coiling system is nothing more than taking a long shoot 
or cutting from a vine, cutting out all the buds except a few at 
the upper end, and then beginning at the lower end, and coiling 
the shoot round and round, say from three to six or eight times, 
the inside of a pot of 12 or 14 in. or more in diameter. ‘The shoot 
may be of any length, from 6 ft. to 30 ft., and it may be entirely 
of last year’s wood; cr the greater part of it may be of old 
wood, provided 3 or 4 ft. at the upper end be of new wood ; 
because, as every gardener knows, the buds from young wood 
are more certain than those from old wood of producing blossom 
the first year. The vine being coiled round in the pot, and 
plenty of drainage being put in the bottom, take care that the 
end of the shoot left out of the pot, on which the fruit is to 
grow, be not injured at the point where it separates from the 


cultivating the Vine in Pots. 139 


coil. This shoot may be 2 or $ ft. long; and, to keep it steady, 
it may be tied to a stake, or coiled round two or three stakes. 
After this, fill up the pot with a rich loamy soil, pressing it 
firmly against the coil, as if you were making firm the end of a 
cutting. Unless this is done in such a manner as to bring every 
part of the coil in close contact with the soil, it will not root so 
readily as it otherwise would do. The next operation is, to 
wrap up all that part of the stem which is above the pot with 
moss, and this moss must be kept constantly moist till the grapes 
are formed. ‘The pot should now be plunged in bottom heat, 
either in a pit or forcing-house; but, wherever it is plunged, 
care must be taken to regulate the temperature of the atmo- 
sphere of the house, in such a manner as to prevent the top of 
the vine from being excited before the roots. If this should 
happen, the young shoots produced will soon wither for want of 
nourishment. Abundance of air, therefore, should be given for 
several weeks, so as never to allow the temperature of the atmo- 
sphere of the house, frame, or pit, to exceed 45° or 50°, while the 
temperature of the medium in which the pots are plunged may be 
as high as 65° or 70°. When, by examination, you find that fibres 
are protruded from the coil, the temperature of the atmosphere 
may then be gradually raised, when the buds will break, and 
the shoots will grow apace. 

The shoots proceeding from that part of the stem above the 
pot should be led up to within 8 or 10 in. of the glass, and there 
trained, at that distance from it, towards the back of the pit or 
house. It is needless to state to the practical gardener, that 
each shoot will require to be shortened, freed from laterals, &c. 
Each vine will produce from three to twenty or more bunches, 
according to the length of coil and variety of grape. I have 
now (Jan. 17. 1834) upwards of 200 coiled branches in pots, — 
and nearly fifty of them in action; some with twenty bunches 
of fine grapes on them. 

I was asked the other day, whether vines so treated would not 
require frequent shiftings into larger pots; or, at least, to be 
shifted once a year. To this I answered, that while we had a 
plentiful supply of prunings from our own vines, or could pro- 
cure them from those of our friends, the best mode would be to 
treat the plants, after they had borne one crop, as we do the 
roots of asparagus and other plants that we force; that is, to 
throw them away. If, however, you should wish to keep the 
coiled plants a second year, and the pots should be found to be 
too full of roots, turn out the ball, shake the soil from the coil, 
and cut away all the roots close to the shoot; then repot it as 
before. If this be done in winter, the plant will produce an 
excellent crop the following season; probably a better one than 
if the roots were allowed to remain, and the ball shifted into a 


140 Coiling System of cultivating the Vine. 


larger pot or box. The pot or box is in either case soon 
filled with young vigorous fibres, like a hatch of young maggots, 
each eager for food, and consequently sending it up in abun- 
dance to supply the crop above. Can there be a doubt but that 
this is a far superior mode to keeping pots, or even fruit-tree 
borders, filled up with old inert roots ? 

Before my bunches are clearly developed, I have thousands 
of eager mouths or spongioles, extending along the coiled shoot, 
and each gaping for food; some of these rootlets are 3 ft. long, 
and, before the vines are out of blossom, many of them are 6 ft. 
in length, and matted round and round the pot. You will 
easily understand, from this, how important it is to supply vines 


so treated with liquid manure, either by watering from above, or 


by a supply from a saucer or feeder from below. 
I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Welbeck Gardens, Jan. 17. 1834. JoHn MEarns. 


SINCE we received the above account from Mr. Mearns, we have heard the 
article on the same subject, to which he alludes, read before a meeting of the 
Horticultural Society. In this paper, the names of a number of varieties are 
mentioned, which had been thus fruited; including the muscadines, black 
clusters, black Hamburgh, black Damascus, black Tripoli, muscat of Alex- 
andria, &c. Mr. Mearns also mentions that, hearing of a new and fine variety 
of muscat, called the Candia, which had been a few years ago introduced 
into the Duke of Buccleugh’s gardens at Dalkeith, he wrote last autumn to 
Mr. Macdonald, the gardener there, for some of the prunings of this vine, 
and that he had, at the time the paper was written (Feb., 1834), plants of the 
Candia at Welbeck, from coils of the prunings received, with numerous bunches 
of fruit on them, which would ripen in April and May next. 

We regard this discovery of Mr. Mearns as one of considerable importance, 
not only as showing what may be done in the particular case of the vine, but 
as tending to familiarise practical gardeners with some points in vegetable phy- 
siology. It is clear that the coiled shoot is a reservoir of nutriment to the 
young growth; in the same manner as the tuber of the potato is an accu- 
mulation of nutriment for the young shoots which proceed from its buds or 
eyes when planted. To a certain extent, long shoots of any tree whatever, if 
buried in the soil, either coiled or extended, and two or three inches or feet of 
their upper extremities kept out of the ground, would produce leaves, blos- 
soms, and even fruit, the first year: but those shoots which, from their nature, 
do not freely emit fibres, or do not emit them at all, would perhaps not set 
their fruit; or might even cease to produce leaves in the course of a few 
months. The reason, in that case, would be, that the reservoir of nourishment 
soon becomes exhausted, if it is not supplied from the soil ; and that the only 
mode by which the shoot can obtain nourishment from the soil is by means of 
fibres, which it has either no power of producing at all, or cannot produce in 
sufficient abundance. The advantages of the coiling system are, that an almost 
unlimited number of fibres or mouths are produced by it m a very limited 
portion of soil; and that this soil can be rendered of the most suitable de- 
scription for the given plant, supplied abundantly with liquid manure, and 
renewed almost at pleasure. The use of cutting off all these fibres or mouths, 
when they get too long, is merely to keep them within a limited space; for 
when a fibre elongates, unless it has, at the same time, room to branch out, 
so as to produce other fibrils, it can take in no more nourishment than when 


Defence of the Cropping of Borders. 141 


it is short, say an inch long; because the nourishment is only taken in by the 
spongiole, or point of the fibre. The whole art of rapid cultivation, both in 
ligneous and herbaceous vegetables, proceeds on this principle. The Lan- 
eashire gooseberry grower has recourse to it, when he shortens the roots of 
his plants at a certain distance from the stem, every two or three years; thus 
causing them to emit fibres, for which he prepares a circular trench of rich 
soil round each tree. (See III. 421.) Mr. Mearns’s mode of treating the 
peach, and other fruit trees, described in the succeeding paper, and the mode 
of cultivating cabbages, and other plants of that kind, by pricking out from the 
seed-bed, and transplanting and re-transplanting into rich soil, instead of 
sowing where the plants are finally to remain, all proceed on the principle of 
multiplying the mouths, and increasing the supply of rich food, within a limited 
space. The result of this is, both in ligneous and herbaceous plants, that 
maturity is obtained with iess magnitude than in a natural state, and in a 
much shorter time. The essential principle is the abundant supply of rich 
nutriment ; and the same principle produces exactly the same results in the 
animal kingdom, Hence the small-sized early-fatting varieties of cattle, sheep, 
swine, &c. 

Where a plant or animal is grown or reared chiefly to be consumed as 
food, the application of this principle seems desirable and advantageous ; but 
where the natural character and beauty of the plant or animal are desiderata, 
a more natural mode of treatment, or one more resembling that which is 
generally followed, is requisite for attaining the end in view. 

All intricate operations of culture, such as those of the coiling system, the 
chambering of the roots of trees, taking up and replanting, particular modes of 
training, ringing, &c., it should never be forgotten either by gardeners or 
their employers, are only calculated for places where abundance of men are 
kept, and where also there is considerable skill im at least one or two of these 
men. When these and similar operations are attempted in places where there 
are scarcely hands enough to keep a garden in order by the common practices, 
failure is certain to attend either the new practice or the old ones, and pro- 
bably both. — Cond, 


Art. XII. A Defence of the Practice of Cropping the Borders in 
which Wall-Fruit Trees grow ; and various Considerations in re- 
lation to the Culture of Wall-Fruit Trees. By Mr. Joun Mearns, 
F.H.S. 


Sir, 

Tue practice of preserving the borders in front of wall trees 
from crops is, I have observed, repeatedly recommended and 
applauded in your Magazine: I beg to state, however, that, 
from long and attentive observation, I consider my wall trees 
to have been benefited rather than injured by a judicious 
cropping, if a proper supply of water, in the swelling season, 
where the ground is dry, be administered. But, even if the 
trees were not benefited by it, I would advocate the cropping of 
the borders; because I consider south borders, protected by 
14-ft. or 16-ft. walls, of much greater importance in producing 
the supply of vegetables necessary for a family, than any other 
part of akitchen-garden. Borders thus protected bring forward 
so many autumnal, winter, and spring crops, that, if some little 


sacrifice of the fruit crop should arise from growing vegetables 


142 Culture of Wall- Fruit Trees. 


upon them, it cannot come into competition with the loss of 
culinary products which must result from not cropping them. 
I have here about 12 acres of good kitchen-garden, and yet I 
should be loth to fallow any of my south borders. One crop 
must follow another in quick succession, but I am careful that 
- each successive crop is different in affinity from the last ; and, by 
such attention, I consider the ground well prepared with an 
abundance of choice food for the next desired article, so that no 
injury is produced to my fruit. 

Standard Fruit Trees in Kitchen-Gardens.—I1 wish that those 
who advocate so strenuously the retaining of south borders free 
from all crops, had rather taken up their pens to condemn the 
notorious practice of planting open standard fruit trees all over 
otherwise fine kitchen-gardens; their papers might then have 
produced some useful effect. ‘Those who are short of garden 
ground, and have but little room to spare, are obliged to pro- 
cure all they can in the least compass; and this object, in kitchen- 
gardens in which fruit trees must be grown, may be much 
promoted, with little sacrifice of culinary vegetables, by the 
adoption of pendent trees of only one shoot. It is needless to 
plant standards at random all over noblemen’s and gentlemen’s 
gardens. ‘To do so evinces a bad taste, because such trees take 
off the good effect of a well-laid-out, and otherwise well-managed 
garden, and are most unsightly as well as most injurious cum- 
berers of the ground; and, consequently, ought to be discarded 
wherever they can possibly be dispensed with. Substitute, as 
a compensation, an elegant display of numerous well-managed 
espaliers judiciously fixed, and pay a nice attention to wall trees. 
No one need fear having plenty of fine fruit upon the * old an- 
tiquated fan form of training,” if a due and judicious attention 
be paid to the trees at all times. The spur-bearing kinds 
require the spurs to be kept short, and not trimmed too early in 
the summer, so as to excite the embryo blossom buds to burst 
prematurely into shoots: when this precaution has been ob- 
served, an abundance of blossom buds will be formed, and in 
every part of the trees, for the following season. If the intended 
bearing branches are made to droop as much as they will bear, 
this posture will check the superabundant sap, and induce fruit- 
fulness. : 

On destroying the Insects which infest Fruit Trees.—It is of 
the utmost importance to the success and general well-being of 
all fruit trees, that they be kept perfectly clear from insects, para- 
sites of all sorts, and all extraneous matters. Winter is the best 
season in which to operate for effecting this object; and, with 
regard to fruit trees trained against walls, we ought to commence 
by loosening all of them from the wall, and giving them regular 
and judicious pruning. After this, begin upon the main stem, 
even below the surface of the earth, by removing a portion of 


Culture of Wall-Fruit Trees. 143 


the soil, and diligently scrape or pare, if the case be such as to 
require it, every part, even to the extremity of each branch. 
Afterwards wash the whole of the wall most completely with the 
following preparation: —'Take strong lime-water, after it has 
settled into a perfectly clear state (so that none of the lime re- 
mains, farther than what it holds in solution), and mix in it about 
a fourth part of strong tobacco liquor; some soft soap, 1 lb. to 
a gallon; and about 1 |b. of flower of brimstone, or of sulphur 
vivum, either will answer: if some black pepper, ground very 
fine, be added, it will be an improvement. This preparation 
will clear the wall most completely from every kind of insect. 
After the trees are again dry, have a mixture ready, composed 
of the above ingredients, but in stronger proportions; and, 
instead of the lime-water, use chamber-lie, or the strong drain- 
age of a farmyard; and, lastly, thicken it to the consistence of 
good thick paint, with quicklime dissolved in it. ‘Take painters’ 
brushes of different sizes, and coat the trees completely over 
with the mixture, not leaving a chink, or the axil of a bud, 
without working the mixture well into it. Use the whitest lime 
you can get for the purpose, that, when dry, you may readily see 
where the brush has missed. It is best to coat every part com- 
pletely over two or three times, and it will kill everything that is 
not concealed in the bark. In pear trees, the insects of the last 
class are our greatest pest. I wish some one would be kind 
enough to inform us how to get rid of the warty pest, which does 
not, I believe, commit its greatest ravages in that state. Will 
Rusticus of Godalming be so kind as to give us the history of 
this destructive insect ? I think we have no enemy so resistless 
as this; all others fall beneath the above dressing. [See IX. 
328. 332. and 498.] 

On limiting the Extension of the Roots of Wall Trees.—Iam a 
strong advocate for confining the roots of wall trees, as well 
as those of grape vines; and I assure you that, if it is judi- 
ciously executed, it is a most excellent practice. I only allow 
18 in. for the depth of soil in my borders, upon a well-laid paved 
bottom, hollow underneath ; with a flue, or hot-water pipes, if 
either of these can be had, in the hollow; the joints being 
securely cemented, to prevent the roots from striking through 
into the chambering. I wall in my roots at 6 or 8 ft. from the 
main wall, although less will be sufficient; and place plugs in 
shafts, through the paved bottom, at suitable distances, to enable 
me to drain it perfectly in very rainy weather, heavy falls of 
snow, or rapid thaws. Let the soil in which the trees are 
planted be used as soon as it can be got together, by paring it 
off a fine pasture field, or a fine sheepwalk, taking the turf only 
about 3 in. thick; if not very good, 1 to 2 in. will suffice, and the 
fresher it is used the better. 


144 Cullure of Wall-Erut Trees. 


On removing Wall Trees, and renewing the Soil for them.— 
I would renew my borders, and remove my trees, every three or 
four years. By removing part of the soil from the surface every 
two or three years, and “by cutting off the matted roots, about 
2 ft. from the confining wall, taking out soil and all, and filling 
- up the vacancy with fresh turfy soil, recently pared, and roughly 
chopped, the trees will do well for thirty years. The removed 
soil is excellent for most other horticultural purposes. Fine 
training is of importance, as far as appearance goes; but pro- 
ductive trees and fine fruit can be produced without much 
attention being paid to that part of the art, as I have very fre- 
quently witnessed. By attention to cleaning and chambering, 
these desirable results will be found to be effected with much 
more certainty, and the processes recommended to be well worth 
all the expense they may occasion. If I did not crop my bor- 
ders, when of the above width, and conducted upon the above 
principle, the sacrifice would not be of such consequence as the 
Joss of the whole of a border 12 ft. or 16 ft. wide, as there would 
still be a fair space left for many of the most important culinary 
vegetables ; but with such a mode of treatment as that which I 
have recommended, there is no fear of impoverishing the trees by 
light crops of any kind. 

The soil which I use for the most important purposes is the 
turfy surface from the top of a high limestone rock of the brown 
magnesian kind. It has been a confined sheepwalk time out of 
mind. I like it best fresh, and only coarsely chopped for my 
borders, so as to encourage a rapid fermentation about the 
roots; this I take to be of far greater importance than time 
thrown away by fine training in slow hands. 

Chambering of Borders. —It may be judged by many, that my 
method of chambering borders for fruit trees is an expensive 
one; but it is much better, where stone and lime are readily at 
hand, to incur the attendant expense, than to sacrifice the whole 
of a 12-ft. or 16-ft. border. Our cold wet bottom requires it; 
but, even upon a more congenial subsoil, I should recommend 
a secure and well-walled chambered bottom, and the frequent 
removal of the trees, and renewing of the soil, to insure good 
crops; but upon no occasion whatever should I mix rotten 
dung with it as a manure: the chopped turf above mentioned 
I consider at all times the best. I chambered last season a front- 
age of my graperies of 200 ft.; and have admitted much of the 
heat of the flues, and atmosphere of the houses, underneath the 
borders. I have rafters and lights to put over these borders in 
the early part of the season, and these can be connected with a 
hollow wall round the vine roots, so as to admit a free circulation 
between the heated air beneath the glass and that in the chamber 


Culture of Wall-Fruit Trees. 145 


below the border. I intend to chamber about 200 ft. of vinery 
frontage this season, and I am now preparing for it. 

It may be well to state to you, that I have planted all my old 
vines again, and that they have made remarkably fine wood. 
An old Muscat has 22 fine bunches of grapes upon it. I put in 
a branch of the same vine, 10 ft. long, without roots, which has 
made excellent wood, and produced a fine bunch of grapes: the 
black Damascus and black Tripoli have done the same. 

Tam, Sir, yours, &c. 
Welbeck Gardens, Ollerton, Sept. 16. 1833. JoHn MEARNS. 


Further Observations on confining the Roots of Wall Trees, &c. — 
I am very certain that the peach, plum, apricot, &c., if judici- 
ously planted and attended to, require but a very small space 
for their roots to extend in. A depth of 14 to 16 in. is better 
than a greater; and a parallelogram of 9 ft. by 4 ft. is an extent 
of sufficient capacity for a tree to cover profitably with its roots. 
By attending to this, but a very small portion of the 12-ft. to 16-ft. 
borders will be lost, as 3 ft. is the proper distance at which to 
keep general crops from the walls, where there are proportion- 
able borders. A few small things, which require protection, 
may be put close under the walls, and upon the chambered bor- 
ders, and will do no harm. The bottom of the walled pits for 
each tree should be paved, and neatly set in good mortar (I 
mean, with the stone squared, and mortised joints) upon che- 
quered brickwork; two to three or four layers deep, as the state 
of the bottom may be, leaving three or four holes at the lowest 
places for the wet to drain off. Plant the trees in fresh turfy 
soil of a fine mellow hazel loam; and, as required, mix fresh- 
chopped turf occasionally with alittle of the same. Inthe course 
of five or six years it will be found that the roots have got much 
matted round the walls, and that the tree has lost much of its 
usual vigour in consequence, the fruit being not so fine: when 
such is the case, cut out a trench from a foot toa foot and a half 
broad round the walls which were put to confine the roots, and 
take out the soil and roots completely to the bottom, filling the 
space up again with the usual fresh-chopped turf. Take off the 
top soil from the roots, and fill up with the fresh, forking it well 
in amongst the roots, and mixing it with the remaining soil as 
far as can safely be done. ‘The trees will soon display an extra- 
ordinary degree of vigour, with rarely the least appearance of 
gum or canker, and will bear the finest fruit. 

It is an excellent method to take the trees completely out of 
the pits every five or six years; and to renovate the soil with the 
fresh-chopped turf, taking part of the exhausted soil out, before 
planting the trees again. If done with a judicious hand, a 


Vout. X.— No. 49. L 


146 On forcing Asparagus, 


plentiful crop of fine fruit is obtained the same season. I beg 

to state that this is the best method to manage all wall fruits, 

with some variation in the chambering. Tor peaches, nectarines, 

apricots, plums, and grape vines in forcing-houses, it exceeds 

every other method, and the less animal manure is used for all 

these the better. J. M. 
Welbeck Gardens, Jan. 17. 1834. 


Art. XIV. On forcing Asparagus; by Mr. T. Rurcer: with an 
Account of the French Method, translated from the “ Bon Jar- 
dinier” for 1834. 


Sir, 

In the routine of framing, I conceive the forcing of asparagus 
to be one of the most simple practices to accomplish ; and, when 
any thing like a proper treatment is given, success is certain. 
Nevertheless, as that treatment is not generally known, a few 
hints upon the subject may, perhaps, not be amiss. 

In every department of forcing (blanching excepted), the 
nearer we can bring the article forced to the state of perfection 
which it exhibits in the natural state, the better. This, I think, 
will be conceded by every one conversant with gardening ; and 
the consequences which will naturally follow the adoption of 
such a rule are, that a higher degree of flavour will be obtained, 
as well as a more natural appearance in the article, whatever it 
may be. 

With regard to the asparagus which is brought to Covent 
Garden Market during the forcing season, I have observed most 
of it to be nearly as white in the part grown above ground as in 
that below; which is no doubt occasioned either by excess 
ot bottom heat, or for want of light and air, or both combined. 
A sad mistake this in the cultivators, whoever they may be. 
Defects may be excusable in some kinds of fruits or vegetables, 
which are very difficult of culture; but, in growing asparagus, I 
conceive there is no reason why any difficulty should exist; nor 
will it argue any thing in favour of the practice, to attribute it to 
the desire of bringing the shoots earlier into the market, as, by 
planting the roots a fortnight or three weeks sooner, this might 
be accomplished. The fact is (and I write from experience), 
that, in growing asparagus in artificial heat, the slower the pro- 
cess the better. The heat below should be very moderate, and, 
as soon as the buds appear above ground, all the light and air 
that can be given with safety should be freely rendered ; and by 
this means the asparagus, instead of presenting the blanched 
appearance which it often does, would not only assume more of 


with an Account of the French Method. 147 


its natural hue, but its flavour would be improved, and its size 
augmented. 

Since writing the above, I have met with a paragraph in your 
Magazine (p. 86.) which hints that a further knowledge is ne- 
cessary to be acquired in this country, in order to produce 
asparagus of a good quality; and I should be glad to see what 
the Bon Jardinier for 1834 says upon the subject, although I 
think enough has been given in your Ency. of Gard., with respect 
to the preparation of beds, roots, &c., for the purpose. It is in 
the after-treatment, I conceive, that the fault principally lies. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Shortgrove, Leb. 1834. T. RurGer. 


Forcine Asparagus, as practised in the Neighbourhood of Paris. 
— In compliance with Mr. Charlwood’s suggestion (p. 86.), 
and with the wish expressed by Mr. Rutger, we translate the 
passage alluded to, which is as follows: — Asparagus is ob- 
tained in winter and early spring on uncovered dung beds, or 
on dung beds covered with glazed frames, by various methods ; 
of which the two following are those most generally used by the 
gardeners in the neighbourhood of Paris. 

Forcing White Asparagus.— By this mode asparagus is forced 
without removing the plants from their places in the open gar- 
den. ‘The asparagus beds are laid out 4 ft. wide, and paths 
2 ft. wide are left between them. ‘The beds are made up, and 
manured with more than ordinary care, and they are planted 
with four rows of plants; the rows being a foot apart, (which 
leaves a space 6 in. wide between the outside row and the path, 
on each side of the bed), and the plants being 9 or 10 in. from 
each other in the row. ‘The beds are carefully attended to, and 
cultivated during three years. Forcing is commenced in the 
fourth year, from December till March, according to the de- 
mand. ‘The paths are hollowed out to the depth of 18 or 20 in., 
and the earth taken from them is thrown on the beds: the paths 
are then filled up with hot dung well trodden down, and glazed 
frames are put upon the beds, the frames being filled up to the 
glass with hot dung. The beds are raised 3 in. or 4 in. by the 
earth thrown upon them from the paths, and this is done to in- 
crease the length of the blanched shoots of asparagus. ‘Twelve 
days after putting on the frames, a little of the dung in them is 
lifted up with the hand, in order to see whether the asparagus 
has begun to push: when it has, all the dung is taken from the 
inside of the frames, and the heads of asparagus are cut as they 
attain the desired size. ‘The sashes should not be more than 
6 in. from the soil. The heat is kept up by renewing and stir- 
ring the dung in the linings, ane by covering the frames with 

L 


148 Short Communication. 


straw during the night, and in bad weather. In April, the 
frames are taken away, and the dung is removed from the paths, 
which are again filled with the earth which was thrown on the 
beds. The plants are then allowed to rest a year; but the 
second season they may again be forced, and so on alternately, 
as long as the produce is satisfactory. ‘The asparagus thus ob- 
tained is called white asparagus by the Parisian gardeners, as 
the heads have very little colour; but there is another kind, 
which is called green asparagus, which may be raised by the 
following method :— 

To force Green Asparagus.— From December to March, beds 
of hot dung, 4 ft. wide and 2 ft. high, are made successively as 
required ; and these beds are covered 3 or 4 in. deep with ve- 
getable mould, or rich black earth; on this are placed the frames, 
which are covered with straw to increase the heat. When the 
beds are in a proper state, they must be planted with asparagus 
plants three or four years old; or with old plants from beds 
about to be destroyed, the roots having been first reduced to an 
equal length, say 8 or 9 in. ‘The roots are placed in the beds 
on end, so close together as to support each other, and so as to 
have their buds all nearly of the same height, mould being 
pressed between the plants with the hand, so as to fill up all 
vacuities. ‘The frames and sashes are then put on, and the 
asparagus soon begins to push. The shoots are small, but very 
green. As the roots do not continue throwing up shoots more 
than a fortnight or three weeks, it is necessary to make but few 
beds at a time, to renew them often. ‘This green asparagus is 
chiefly used in Paris, cut into small pieces, as a substitute for 
green peas. (Le Bon Jardinier for 1834, p. 187.) 


Art. XV. Short Communication. 


THE Seed of the common Cowslip, sown in the garden, it is well 
known, produces numerous varieties; particularly many with 
blossoms more or less of a red colour, which may be considered 
as the first approach towards a polyanthus, and are often very 
brilliant and beautiful. A red-blossomed cowslip in my garden 
this year produced some very large heads: I had the curiosity 
to count the individual blossoms on one of the stalks, and found 
them amount to 173; there were two other stalks about the 
same size, besides nineteen smaller. ones. ‘Thus, there were 
produced, by one cowslip root, the large number of 685 pips or 
blossoms ; viz. three large bunches containing 173 each, and 
nineteen smaller ones producing together 166. —W. 7. Bree. 
Allesley Rectory, Aug. 20. 1833. 


149 


REVIEWS. 


Art. I. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, 
Rural Architecture, &:c., lately published, with some Account of those 
considered the most interesting. 


CLARKE, Alexander Cowden, Author of “ Tales in Prose from 
Chaucer:” Adam, the Gardener. 12mo, pp. 279. London, 
1834. 


The objects of this little work are, to instil into the minds of 
youth a love for “ the beautiful face of Nature, its green fields, 
the shining sun, and the sailing clouds;” to convey to them, 
at the same time, a taste for gardening and natural history ; and 
to implant in them humane feelings and liberal opinions. As a 
work of gardening, it cannot be considered as addressed to the 
practical man; and therefore we do not feel ourselves called 
upon to enter into its details of cultures, though, as far as we 
have examined them, they are unobjectionable. To all those, 
however, who wish to imbue the minds of youth with a love of 
rural nature and a taste for the cultivation of the earth, we can 
most strongly recommend it as one of the best of books. It 
is written in an easy and attractive style. 


Royle, J. Forbes, ¥.L.S., late Superintendent of the Honourable 
East India Company’s Botanic Garden at Saharunpore : 
Illustrations of the Botany and other Branches of the Natural 
History of the Himalayan Mountains, and of the Flora of 
Cashmere. In 4to parts, with coloured plates, 20s. each. 1834. 


Part II. has just appeared: it supplies descriptions of the 
plants figured in the eighteen plates published in the first part, 
and contains eleven additional plates. Of these one is devoted 
to an exhibition of sections of the geology of the parts of 
country spoken of, and the ten plates bear pictures of plants 
to which the following names are applied : — Pol¥gala Myrsi- 
nites, furcdta, crotalarioides, triphylla; Siléne Falconeriana; 
Ly¥chnis fimbriata; Leucostémma latifolia, angustifolia ; Arena- 
ria festucoides ; Gossypium herbaceum, arbdreum ; Etrya acumi- 
nata; Hypéricum japonicum; Cedréla serrata; Cissus rdsea, 
capreolata; Geranium Lindleydnum ; Impatiens bicolor, glandu- 
lifera, 


Booth, J. and Sons, Proprietors of the Flottbeck Nurseries, 
Hamburgh: A Catalogue of the Hardy Plants in their Col- 
L 3 


150 Charlwood’s Catalogue for 1834. 


lection. Part I. Hardy Plants. 8vo, pp. 116. Hamburgh, 
1833. 


This is an exceedingly well got up catalogue; and it is printed 
on much better paper than is generally the case with German 
publications. It will be particularly useful to the English 
reader, by giving him the German names of all the plants in 
general cultivation ; and it were much to be wished that similar 
catalogues were prepared by eminent French and Dutch nursery- 
men. Honourable testimony has already been paid in this 
Magazine, by Professor Agardh (IX. 417.), to the science, 
liberality, and industry of the Messrs. Booth. 

The arrangement of this catalogue is popular, and quite cha- 
racteristic of the German school. It is divided into, fruit trees ; 
forest trees, for park and forest scenery; fir trees, for shelter- 
hedges; ornamental trees, for groups; evergreen trees, for 
groups; berry-bearing trees; weeping trees ; plants for orna- 
menting graves (these are choice perennial spring flowers, and 
different kinds of periwinkle) ; twining and climbing plants ; 
hedge plants; peat-earth plants ; trees and shrubs for use in 
laying out grounds; perennial herbaceous plants (those which 
are evergreen being designated by marks); middle-sized georginas; 
double-flowered dwarf georginas; double anemone-flowered 
georginas; pzeonies; auriculas; carnations and pinks; hearts- 
eases (18 sorts, with names); new select flowers; culinary vege- 
tables; hops; and A’corus Calamus, which is sold by the hundred. 
The second part of this catalogue will contain house plants. 


Charlwood, George, Seedsman, 14. Tavistock Row, Covent 
Garden : A Catalogue, for 1834, of American and other Tree, 
Shrub, and Herbaceous Plant Seeds, imported for sale. <A 
folio sheet, for being sent by post. 


This catalogue enumerates 420 articles; and has, besides, a 
postscript, stating that a further collection of seeds from the 
Southern States is daily expected ; of which a supplementary list 
will be immediately printed. The prices put to all the articles are 
remarkably low; in some cases, twenty-six sorts of herbaceous 
plants for a shilling! A great many tree and shrub seeds are 
included in this catalogue: for example, 24 species of pines, 
10 of oaks, 8 of birch, 10 of walnuts and hickories, 5 of magno- 
lias, 7 of ash, 10 of Hibiscus, 6 of Ilex, &c. Whoever has a 
good gardener, and wishes to rear an arboretum, or to have a 
good collection of herbaceous plants, cannot go a cheaper way 
to work than by sending for this catalogue and making a selection 
from it. 


Dennis and Co.: A Catalogue, for 1834, of Pelargoniums and 
Georginas. Printed on a folio sheet, to be sent by post. 


This catalogue exhibits a rich store of varieties of pelar- 


Dennis and Co.’s Catalogue for 1834. 151 


goniums and georginas, distributed into sections, according to the 
colours of the flowers. ‘The price of almost every variety is 
affixed to it, and in the georginas the height also. In both 
families, a good many varieties ‘ have been struck off the last 
published catalogue, to make room for those of more recent date 
and far greater beauty, which are denoted by an asterisk before 
each name.” With the merits of the latter we have not had an 
opportunity to become personally acquainted, but we are assured 
that they are of a high quality. Among the varieties of estab- 
lished excellence we observe habranthum, marked at from 5s. to 
15s., according to the size of the plant; Dennis’s Queen Adelaide, 
Lord Ravensworth, and Ne plus ultra, each at from 5s. to 10s.; 
Queen of Scots, 2s. 6d. to 5s.; fisco superb, 3s. 6d.; Weltje- 
anum, 10s. to 20s. ; queen of roses, 2s. 6d. to 5s. 

Among the georginas, the following kinds are, we have learned, 
those of real merit, and deserving culture generally. We retain 
the star to those marked as new ones: — White: fimbriata Alba, 
3s.; king of the whites, 2s.; paper white, 5s.; queen of the 
whites, 3s. Gd. Striped, spotted, or shaded with lilac or purple: 
* alba purptrea, 4s.; * Ariel (no price to this); * Desdemona, 5s.; 
guttata major, 5s.; pencilled white, 3s. 6d. ; queen of Belgium, 5s.; 
* queen of dahlias (georginas), 7s. 6d.; * Rosette, 3s. 6d. ; striata, 
3s. 6d. Blush, &c.: Anne Boleyn, 1s. 6d.; * blanda perfécta, 5s. 
Lilac: * fair Devonian, 3s. 6d.; Levitt’s lilac, 2s. 6d.; * superb 
lilac, 2s. 6d. Iose-colour, pink, &c.: * Diana, 3s. 6d.; Lady 

Grenville, 3s.; lasting rose, 2s.; surpasse-triomphe, 1s. 6d.; Wells’s 
dénsa, 1s. 6d. Yellow: * Comus, 3s. 6d.; jaune insurmount- 
able, 5s.; * Jason, 3s. 6d.; king of yellows, 58.3 .5 * sulphurea per- 
fécta. Spotted or striped with red ot purple: * Algernon Sydney, 
5s.; picta, 2s. Buffand salmon-coloured: Flora Macdenalel 5S. 3 
maid of St. Leonard’s, 3s. 6d.; * aurantia speciosissima, 7s. 6d. ; 

aurantia pallida, 2s. 6d.; * emancipation, 2s. 6d.; globe orange, 
2s.; Prince of Orange, 3s. 6d. Red: * @ansiantia perfécta, 5s. ; 
Lady Sydney, 2s.; * Remus, 3s. Striped or shaded with orange: 
* Lovely’s Lord Grey, 5s.; * picta formosissima, 5s.; Zebra, 
1s. 6d. Scarlet: Barrett’s William 1V., 2s.; beauty of Ches- 
hunt, 2s-; * beauty of the vale, 5s.; coccinea multiflora, 3s. 6d.; 
* coccinea perfécta, 10s.; Duchess of Richmond, 2s.; * Den- 
niséz coccinea, 10s.; globosa, 2s. 6d.; * Oculus solis, 3s. 6d. ; 
* Phoebus, 5s.; scarlet perfection, 10s.; * Widnall’s rising sun, 
3s. 6d. Ruby-coloured : * beauty of Campden, 10s. 6d. ; * Spring- 
field rival, 5s.; Widnall’s perfection, 5s. Shaded rose, shaded 
purple, &c.: Adeliza, 2s. 6d.; Elliott’s king, 3s. 6d.; * Lady 
Harcourt, 2s. 6d.; metropolitan, 3s. 6d.; * perfécta major, 5s. 
Crimson: Justinia, 3s.; * Walter Boyd, 1s, 6d. Striped or shaded 
with black or white: Levick’s commander in chief, 3s. 6d.; Le- 
vick’s incomparable, 2s. 6d. Purple: Lord Liverpool, 3s, 6d. ; 

L 4 


152 Rennies Handbook of Gardening. 


* Voltaire, 3s. 6d.; Wilmot’s superb, 2s. 6d. Dark maroon, 
purple, puce, &c.: Black Prince, 2s. 6d.; * beauty perfect, 5s. ; 
Dawson’s victory, 2s.; *erécta, 5s.; * Granta, dark claret, fine- 
cupped petals, 10s. 6d.; * Lord Althorp, 5s.; * nigress, 3s. 6d. 
Globe-flowered: Circe, 3s. 6d.; compacta, scarlet and orange, 
3s. 6d. 

Of the new kinds, marked by an asterisk, there are eighty, 
besides those with that mark which we have quoted. 


Rennie, James, M.A., Professor of Zoology, King’s College, 
London: The Handbook of Gardening. 18mo. London, 
1834. Is. Gd. 


This little book, produced at the instigation of Mr. Menteath, 
jun., of Closeburn, deserves to be favourably received by the 
public, from the excellence of the intentions of the parties con- 
nected with it. In our epinion, however, it is by no means the 
sort of work calculated to attain the end in view. Such a book, 
indeed, could not be produced by a mere London author. ‘The 
man who, of all others that we know, either in Scotland or Eng- 
land, could produce the best “ Handbook” for the Scotch cot- 
tager is Mr. Gorrie; and, if we are not mistaken, we mentioned 
this to Mr. Menteath when he applied to us, above a year since, 
on the subject of a “ Handbook” for Scotch cottagers. All 
that the Scotch cottager wants might be contained in one number 
of Chambers’s Jnformation for the People, and sold for 2d., in- 
stead of being swelled out into an eighteen-penny volume, by 
mere size of type. Sucha number of Chambers’s, joined to 
his number on cookery (No. xvii.), the latter being altered a 
little, and rendered more economical, would form a useful four- 
penny-worth to every working man who had a wife and a 
home. Let us hope that Messrs. Chambers will produce such 
a number. 


Allen, William Ely, Gardener to the Rev. M. G. Edgar, Red 
House, Ipswich: A Treatise on an entirely original System 
of cultivating Cucumbers, Melons, and Sea-kale, forcing Broc- 
coli, Potatoes, &c. &c.; with an Address to the Gardeners 
of Suffolk, and a practical Critique on ‘ Smith’s Treatise.” 
Pamph. 8yo, pp. 28. Ipswich, 1834. 5s. 


This work has the great attraction of being concise; no small 
merit in this bookmaking age. We also found, on looking it 
over, that the end in view is proposed to be obtained, not so 
much by the use of new machinery, as by an improved use of 
the machinery already in existence. In what the “ entire ori-~ 
ginality” of the system consists we have been at a loss to discover, 
and we therefore think that the author is somewhat unreason- 
able in his demand of 5s. for the same quantity of printing and 


Allen on cultivating the Melon, &c. 153 


paper as we sell for 6d., independently of our engravings. On 
looking over the work, we find that Mr. Allen’s seed bed * is 
made up in the third week of October, and that it is a common 
bed,” with long manure atthe bottom and rotten manure at the top, 
&c. To maintain a beautiful dark green foliage on the cucumber 
plant during winter, it is recommended to make up new beds, 
and remove the plants into them; or to refresh the interior of 
the old ones in the following manner :— ‘“ In the middle of 
November, although there is a lively heat in the bed, the air of 
the frame (more particularly in foggy weather) is found to be in 
a very impure and unwholesome state. In such cases, after two 
or three successive dull and fogey days, and [during which] the 
lights have been kept continually close, on the first fine day after, 
take the lights off; [then] place a hand-light over the pots of 
plants ; take a sponge and wash the inside of the frame all round ; 
wipe it dry; and, if the weather permits, the lights may remain 
off an hour or two. A little cold will not signify; it will make 
the plants hardy. Stir the mould, wash the lights, and put them 
on the frame; distribute the pots about the bed, and, the impure 
air which had collected during the foggy days being entirely 
obliterated [dispersed], the plants will show visible signs that 
they are in a more healthy atmosphere. Although V. C. has 
been attached to my name, M.D. has not; but, I think, every 
one will see how feasible the following observation is: — Where 
an invalid has been confined to one room for several weeks, 
perhaps months, when a fresh person enters that room, the im- 
pure air is instantly discovered, which has collected by the room 
being so much confined. Is it not possible that a fresh room, 
well aired and warmed, would prove beneficial to the invalid, if 
removal was possible?” (p. 4.) 

This idea of purifying the air of a cucumber frame appears to 
us rational, though, we believe, the good effected is not so much 
by purifying the air; that is, removing from it any deleterious 
gases or poisonous matters held in suspension; as by getting rid 
of that excess of moisture which air in hotbeds always contains 
in the winter season. Hence it is that cucumbers do so well in 
the winter season in hot-houses, where the air is always drier 
than in frames. — 

Under the head of “ Peculiar System of Cultivation” (p. 10.), 
we were surprised to find so little that can be considered pecu- 
liar. The following sentence, however, may perhaps come under 
this head : — ‘* After a fruit has been impregnated two days (for 
I have proved that to be the best and most proper age to direct 
all virtue to the fruit), by pinching out the eye at the fruit, the 
one before and after, and stopping the runner, is the way in 
which my fruit has been made to run so far before my neighbours’. 
If this operation is performed before the fruit is two days old, it 


154 Sutton on the Destruction of the Turnip Fly. 


is not of proper age to receive the virtue which is directed to it ; 
consequently it will make large at one end, and grow ugly.” 
(p. 12.) 

By the address to the gardeners of Suffolk, it appears that the 
author is distinguished as a prize-cucumber grower ; and, by his 
practical critique on Smith’s Z’reatise (noticed IX. 692.), that he 
is not on very friendly terms with one Suffolk gardener, at least. 
We have no doubt, however, of the author’s merits as a practical 
man; and, as a proof of his own confidence in his success in 
growing cucumbers, we subjoin a challenge, which, he says, he 
has made public: viz., that he “ will grow six cucumbers against 
any person in the county of Suffolk, none less than twenty 
inches, for ten sovereigns.” (p. 24.) 


Sutton, John, of Fisherton Anger, near Salisbury, Wilts: An 
Important Discovery for the Destruction of the Turnip Fly; 
presenting a Certain Method to prevent the Ravages com- 
mitted on the Turnip Plant by that Insect. 12mo, pp. 24. 
10s. to subscribers; 12s. 6d. to non-subscribers. 


Mr. Sutton’s plan is starvation. He states, that, as soon as 
the land is turned up and prepared for the seed, the eggs which 
had been deposited in the ground, and are thus brought to the 
surface, are vivified by the warmth, and that the fly or beetle is 
in full action by the time the first leaves appear, according to 
the ordinary practice of sowing immediately after the land is 
ready; but that, if the sowing be delayed for a fortnight, and 
every weed be destroyed as fast as it appears, the beetle will die 
from starvation in a few days, and the seed may then be sown in 
perfect safety. He farther alleges that he tried an experiment, 
by sowing the same seed in earth under ordinary circumstances, 
and in similar earth which had first been baked in an oven; 
and that, in the former case, the plants of turnips were destroyed 
by the beetle, while, in the latter, no beetle appeared. Is it 
not, as the writer in the British Harmer’s Magazine, whom you 
have quoted in p. 80., suggests, too much to concede that the 
beetle can become hatched from the eggs, and in full exercise of 
its organs of destructiveness, in the short period which inter- 
venes between the sowing of turnip seeds and the rising of the 
plants, as Mr. Sutton has advanced that it can and does ? —C. L. 


Purvis, M. A., De l Agriculture du Gatinais, dela Sologne, et du 
Barry; et des Moyens de l’améliorer. 8vo, pp. 168. Paris, 
1833. 

The author, in company with M. Vilmorin, made an agricultu- 
ral excursion from Paris through the districts mentioned, in what 
year he does not state, but we presume it must have been in 
1833. They passed the first day at I'romont, examining the 
horticultural establishment of M. Soulange-Bodin, with which 


Poiteau and Vilmorin’s Bon Jardinier. 155 


they were highly gratified. Afterwards, quitting the Seine, and 
passing by Fontainebleau, they arrived at the siliceous plain of 
table land known as the Plateau de Gatinais. A few leagues far- 
ther, beyond Nogent, they arrived at Barris; an estate of upwards 
of 1200 acres, belonging to M. Vilmorin. ‘The nature of the soil 
of this estate (an argillaceous sand) is detailed at length, accom- 
panied by the particulars of several experiments tried upon it by 
chemical analysis. ‘The kind of culture practised by M. Vilmo- 
rin, during the last thirty years, on this estate is next described. 
Under this head we find that a considerable portion of it is 
planted with trees of different kinds, European and American; 
including a number of species of oaks and pines, the cedar of 
Lebanon, and the larch. M. Vilmorin has made extraordinary 
exertions to render this tract of poor soil productive; and, pos- 
sessing, as he does, a scientific knowledge both‘of agriculture and 
horticulture, he has been eminently successful. The original 
price of the land, and its present value, are not given, but we 
have no doubt of the difference between them being immense, 
from the improvements it has undergone. 

We are glad to find that the Corsican pine (Pinus Laricio) 
grows in the poor soil of M. Vilmorin’s estate with extraordinary 
vigour. Sown where it is intended finally to remain, it has, in 
eight years, attained the height of twelve feet; having grown 
eight feet during the last three years. ‘This tree, in Corsica, 
M. Vilmorin states, grows to the height of 150 feet, and would 
make excellent masts for ships, were not its timber rather too 
ponderous for that purpose. (p. 78.) 


Poiteau, A., and Vilmorin: Le Bon Jardinier, Almanach pour 
Année 1834. 12mo. Paris, 1834. 


A new edition of this excellent work continues to be pub- 
lished annually; preceded by a short notice of the principal im- 
provements of the past year. There is scarcely any thing in 
the notices which precede the present edition that is not already 
well known to the English reader; unless we except a new 
variety of winter wheat with reddish flowers, said to be very pro- 
ductive; viz., Lroment blanc @hiver a fleurs rougedtres (Triticum 
candidum). We should suppose that this variety may be obtained 
of M. Vilmorin and Co., Paris. 


Nees von Esenbeck, Th. Fr. Lud., Phil. et Med. Doctore, &c.: 
Genera Plantarum Flore Germanice Iconibus et Descrip- 
tionibus illustrata. 


Of this excellent work, whose scope and character we have 
made known in IX. 451., the second fasciculus has just reached 
us. ‘The genera illustrated in it are, Typha, Sparganium, 
A’corus, Calla, Arum, Jancus, Lizula, Triglochin, Scheuchzérza, 
Veratrum, Tofieldia, Smilax, Riscus, Asparagus, Convallaria, 


156 Literary Notices. 


EL torte Maianthemum Wiggers, Stréptopus, Paris, and 
amus. 


Prince, Robert William, Author of a “ Treatise on the Vine; &c.;” 
aided by William Prince, Proprietor of the Linnzean Botanic 
Garden and Nurseries: —The Pomological Manual; or, a 
Treatise on Fruits; containing Descriptions of a great Number 
of the most valuable Varieties for the Orchard and Garden. 
In two Parts, 8vo, Part I. pp. 200, and Part II. pp. 216. 
New York, 1832. (See IX. 612. and 354.) 


This work, we have no doubt, is found of considerable use in _ 
America ; and to cultivators in this country, who, like Mr. Saul, 
are fond of introducing American fruits, it will also afford gra- 
tification. Most of the varieties enumerated in Mr. Prince’s 
work are, we believe, in the collection of the Horticultural 
Society’s garden at Chiswick, and we therefore leave their merits 
to be determined, in due time, by Mr. ’Thompson there. It is 
rather to be regretted than otherwise; that there should be, among 
many nurserymen and cultivators of fruits, a greater desire for 
novelty than for excellence. 

Our readers will recollect that we gave a notice of Mr. Prince’s 
work previously to its appearance (in IX. 612.); and also that 
there is another work on American fruits, entitled Kenrick’s 
New American Orchardist, reviewed in IX. 354. 


Art. II. Literary Notices. 


Dr. LinpieEy’s Lady's Botany is now in the press. It will 
form an 8vo volume, and be illustrated by numerous plates. It 
is intended that this work shall be a familiar introduction to the 
natural system of botany, on the model of Rousseau’s celebrated 
Letters. 

Eiints on Landscape-Gardening (Andeutungen tiber Land- 
schaftsgartnerei), with an account of their practical application at 
Muskau, is announced by a bookseller at Stuttgardt as about to 
be published. The author is Prince Puckler-Muskau. The 
work is to appear in monthly 8vo numbers, at about 15s. sterling 
each to subscribers, and 20s. to non-subscribers. It will be 
illustrated by 44 views and 4 plans, many of them coloured, and 
will contain a description of the park of Muskau. The whole, 
it is calculated, will be completed in 10 numbers. Subscribers 
in England may send their names to Richter and Co., Soho 
Square. We shall give the essence of each number, as we 
receive it, in this Magazine. 


157 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. I, Foreign Notices. 


FRANCE. 


Paris, Feb. 3. 1834. —The prefect of the Seine has kindly permitted the 
Horticultural Society of Paris to have a part of the Town Hall, for a winter 
exhibition of flowers and fruit ; and accordingly one is to be held on the 27th 
of the present month, which will last till the 2d of March. It is expected that 
this show will be very brilliant. The weather has been uncommonly mild 
here: georginas, nasturtiums, mignonette, and many other summer and autumnal 
flowers were in full beauty in November ; and the eccremocarpus [Calampelis 
scabra], and the lophospermum [L. erubéscens] remained in blossom during 
December. Towards the end of the month, the crocuses, violets, Christmas 
rose, winter aconite [Eranthis hyemalis], snowdrops, and many other early 
flowers, came into bloom; and in January the almond trees, hyacinths, and 
tulips began to open their flowers. Altogether, the season has been a most 
extraordinary one; and, even in December, when sitting under the warm 
circular wall in the Gardens of the Tuileries, and looking down the garden, it 
was scarcely possible not to fancy ourselves in spring. 

Our horticulturists have been busy lately trying experiments on the culture 
of the potato; the English root, as it was called only a few years ago pretty 
generally throughout France, and which the gourmands of the French pro- 
vinces are only now beginning to consider fit for any thing but for feeding pigs. 
The Parisians know better ; and so many potatoes are eaten in Paris, that, some 
years ago a market was established expressly for this root; and this market 
is now one of the largest, if not the very largest, of the vegetable markets in 
Paris. Apropos of culinary vegetables, M. Vilmorin has just introduced a new 
kind of spinach, with leaves as large as those of a lettuce [our Flanders 
spinach, we presume]. This variety, which was originated near Lille, is very 
warmly recommended. 

It has been discovered that the name Beurré rance, given to one of the 
Flemish pears, is quite a mistake. The discovery has occasioned a good deal 
of laughter among the horticulturists of Paris; and, thinking it may amuse you, 
I will tell you all the story. It appears that the pear was originally brought 
from the commune de Rans, in Hainault, and there is no doubt but the name 
ought to be Beurré de Rans; instead of which, it is called rance, a word 
which signifies rancid or rank-tasted, like stale butter, and which, of course, 
becomes ridiculous when applied to a pear. 

I was very glad to see, in the Bon Jardinier for 1834 [see p. 155.],a cut and 
description of the marked tallies given in your Hortus Britannicus. I think 
this mode of marking tallies excellent, and well deserving of imitation in 
France, though, for my own part, as I am very stupid at either learning or 
remembering any thing new. [ like your Roman method [VIII. 32.] much 
better; on the same principle that I prefer plain writing to short-hand; though 
the comparison is not quite correct, as short-hand has the advantage of taking 
up less time; while one would be as long in making the hieroglyphics as the 
plain figures; nay, perhaps longer, as the hieroglyphics would require us to 
think and recollect, and be particular in the shape and position of the lines and 
dots, &c., which the others do not. — P. 


GERMANY. 


Munich, July, 1833.—1 know not whether, during your stay here, you 
observed the great meadow before the town, where what is called the October 


158 Foreign Notices :— 


festival is held. This meadow is enclosed on the west by a range of gentle 
acclivities, disposed somewhat in the form of an amphitheatre. Every year, 
in October, a great multitude of people from all parts of the kingdom assemble 
at this festival, which was established by the Agricultural Society, for the 
exhibition of agricultural produce, and for the granting of premiums to the 
producers of objects worthy of reward. 

Those farmers who distinguish themselves by their agricultural labours, or 
by the quality and genuineness of the breed of their horses, bullocks, sheep, 
and pigs, receive publicly, from the hands of the minister for the home de- 
partment, and in the presence of the king and the whole court, the prizes 
previously awarded to them by the decision of agricultural judges. Public 
games and horse-races are connected with this solemnity. Thus, besides the 
great utility of this annual festival in encouraging and improving agriculture, 
it affords to the mere spectator a most pleasing spectacle and much genuine 
enjoyment. On these amphitheatre-like heights, where the Bavarian people, 
like the aneient Greeks at the Olympic games, annually assemble, a picturesque 
plantation has been laid out by order of the king. This plantation is to 
serve as an enclosure and background to a building, which is to have the 
character of a monument, and in which the busts of eminent national artists 
and men of letters will be placed. The plantation is in the natural style of 
landscape-gardening; and, though it is as yet of little height, it has a very 
picturesque effect, which will be greatly increased when the architectural ob- 
jects are finished. 

I must also mention that our beautiful English garden, a plan of which I 
have sent you, is about to receive a new and magnificent ornament. The first 
grand view of the garden, or that which is seen on entering as you come from 
the town, has hitherto, notwithstanding all the natural beauty produced by 
the simplicity of the planting, been felt to want a suitable architectural object, 
to serve as aresting-point for the eye of the spectator. This object our 
monarch’s love of art is now about to supply. A circular temple of red 
marble, 54 ft. high and 23 ft. in diameter, will soon adorn this fine garden 
scene. The grand effect of this temple will be greatly increased by its site. 
It is to be erected on a hill of considerable height, formed, indeed, by art, but 
in the true style of natural gardening. Here, the eye of the delighted pro- 
menader will enjoy, not only a view of this beautiful garden scene, with the 
waterfall and the river in rapid motion below him, but also of the city, with 
its lofty towers, in the background; and, looking over the city, he will have, 
in the distant south, the prospect of the majestic chain of the Tyrolese Alps. 

Full three years must yet elapse before this grand garden scene can be 
finished. If you should visit Munich after that period, you will see it ina 
complete state, and I hope you will be pleased with its execution. I am 
always yours. — Sckell. 

Stuttgardt, Oct. 6. 1833.— Sir, Not having succeeded in getting employed as 
a court gardener, another young man and myself have resolved on commencing 
business as nurserymen. I have bought a piece of ground in the neighbour- 
hood of Friedericksthor, which, in point of soil, shelter, and locality, is well 
adapted for our purpose. Here I hope that we shall by and by be able to 
show one of the first nurseries in Germany. We shall have an arboretum, 
and a scientific arrangement of herbaceous plants, and my partner will give 
lessons in botany. I have published a translation of Dr. Lindley’s Outlines of 
the Principles of Horticulture ( Hauptgrundsetze des Gartenbaues, §c. ; von John 
Lindley ; aus dem Englischen von With. Hertz. 12mo. Stuttgardt, 1833.),a copy 
of which I beg you to accept; and my partner and myself intend commencing, 
in spring, a weekly or monthly Gardener's Magazine. We shall establish a 
garden library, and take young men as apprentices or pupils, whom we shall 
engage to instruct in every thing that relates to gardening and botany. 

But, as we have a great deal to struggle with, I must entreat your assistance, 
and that of all my other kind friends in England. We shall be happy to 
receive books, seeds, plants, cuttings, bulbs; in short, every thing that you can 


Germany, Australia. 159 


spare, and whether the works or other articles be considered in England new 
or old. I shall always be happy to send you some gardening books in return, 
and I expect very soon to forward to you a copy of a new edition of Walter’s 
Gartenbuch, very much augmented, and adapted to the present state of the 
science, which I am now passing through the’press. Any thing which you, or 
any gardener who is kind enough to befriend us, may have to spare, may be 
sent to Messrs. Nebinger, Bange, and Co. London. [remain, Sir, yours sin- 
cerely, — Wm. Hertz. 


AUSTRALIA. 


Sydney, August 10. 1833.— It was only the other day that I got your letter 
of 1829, by the hands of your correspondent, Mr. Frederick A. Meyer. Iwas 
out of town when he arrived, in 1830, and he went immediately up the country 
on an engagement of three years. Meyer has succeeded in establishing several 
vineyards, from which wine and raisins have been made. The colonists have 
now caught a fever for vineyards, and they are in course of preparation all 
over the country. Meyer has got some land on advantageous terms, and is 
planting on his own account. I hope he is now in the road to wealth; at 
least it should be so, for to his practical knowledge and enthusiasm may, in a 
great measure, be attributed the spirit that now pervades the colonists on the 
subject of vineyards. One gentleman, a Mr. Manning (see II. 368.), is form- 
ing, under Meyer’s direction, a series of terraces around a sand hill, for a vine- 
yard, which will cost 800/. or 1000/.— John Thompson. 

Botanic Garden at Sydney.— In order to give an idea of the value attached 
to botany and natural history in this colony, we give the following estimate of 
the expenses of the botanic garden, and the colonial botanist, Mr. Robert 
Cunningham, late of Kew, with the remarks on it of a newspaper editor :— 


EG) G5. (eh 
Colonial botanist - - - - - 200 0 O 
Assistant ditto - - - - - - 80 0 0 
Overseer and gate-keeper, at 8d. each per diem - 24 6 8 
Two collectors of specimens in the interior, at 167. each 
per annum - C - > - 32 0 0 
Rations and clothing to 30 prisoners of the crown, and 
three apprentices, at 6d. each per diem - - 301 2 6 
Forage and farriery for two cart horses - - = §26 110 
Tools, implements, and incidentalexpenses — = = S00 8 
£764 18 8 


This is a large sum to pay for the science of botany. We have the same 
objection to this establishment as to that of zoology. Zoology, and minera- 
logy, and astronomy, and botany, and other sciences, are all very good things; 
but we have no great opinion of an infant people being taxed to promote 
them. An infant community cannot afford to become scientific for the benefit 
of mankind. If old rich countries want local information in science, let 
them send their travellers to us. Public establishments in science are very 
apt to degenerate into jobs, though we say not this of our present colonial 
astronomer or botanist. We think highly of the talents and industry of both. 
Still, we are not for taxing a young colony for the promotion of science. Let 
our rich men promote it by private subscription. In America, such taxes 
have only become common of late years. They were two centuries old before 
they agreed to spend their money in this way. We must, first of all, people 
the country; we must build houses, and enclose farms, and dig wells, and 
make tanks, and dams, and reservoirs, and irrigate our lands, and procure all 
the necessaries of life, before we can spare money for the sciences and fine 
arts. We might as well give salaries to painters, sculptors, and chemists, as 
to ae astronomers, and museum collectors. (Sydney Monitor, July 20. 
1833. 


160 . Domestic Notices : — 


Art. II. Domestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


A ScHEME for a Metropolitan Garden Society and Benevolent Fund was pro- 
posed to us, two years ago ( VII. 689.), by Mr. Ramsay the nurseryman, and has 
lately been laid before us more in detail by a most enthusiastic and intelligent 
gardening amateur. We do not publish this scheme, because, on due con- 
sideration of the rapid changes which are taking place in society (we allude par- 
ticularly to the projected municipal system), we think several parts of the plan 
are objectionable. For instance, we decidedly disapprove of charitable pro- 
visions of any kind being made for healthy able-bodied men or their children. 
One part of the scheme submitted to us was to educate the children of 
gardeners; but we see no good that could result from educating the children 
of this class at the expense of a society, since it would in the end be merely 
saving the pockets of those who employ gardeners. A national system of 
education will, we trust, soon set all questions on this head at rest. We 
dislike, also, the idea of looking to the patronage of persons of title, merely as 
such, for the main support of any institution whatever. The time is gone by 
for any other patronage than that of the public generally. When the metro- 
polis is once governed as a whole, it will soon have a metropolitan garden, 
supported, like other metropolitan institutions, at the general expense. In 
the mean time, rather than see any new garden establishment of the kind 
proposed, we would wish that of the Horticultural Society to be better sup- 
ported, and even assistance advanced to it by government, as in the case of the 
Edinburgh gardens. (p. 62.) — Cond. 

A General Cemetery, of 52 acres, is projected at Notting Hill, near Bays- 
water, by J. F. Carden, Esq., who was the first to bring forward, in an effective 
manner, the idea of public cemeteries in England, in 1824. Since that time 
nine general cemeteries have been established in different country towns. 
We dislike the idea of cemeteries and botanic gardens being made private 
speculations, and would have them formed and maintained at the expense of 
the municipal societies under whose government they were situated; but we 
suppose the time is not yet arrived for this state of things. 

A Bazaar for the Sale of Plants in Pots, and cut Flowers, is about to be 
opened in the Pantheon, Oxford Street, London. The Pantheon is an im- 
mense building, which, for nearly 30 years, owing to some peculiar circum- 
stances in the tenure by which it was held, has been unoccupied. It has 
now, however, become the property of some persons of capital, and of great 
spirit and taste, who are remodelling the entire premises, so as to render it 
one of the most splendid bazaars in London. Among other departments, 
there is a saloon, exclusively devoted to the exhibition of pictures and statuary, 
which will be open to the public gratuitously; a new and most yaluable fea- 
ture. There will also be a conservatory for the reception of plants for sale. 
This building, which forms an entrance to the bazaar from Marlborough Street, 
will be 85 ft. long, 25 ft. wide, and about the same height. The roof is cur- 
vilinear, of iron, and glazed on all sides. It will be heated by hot water, and 
the side sashes will open for ventilation. It is proposed to range along the 
two sides of this conservatory a series of small stages, and to let out the 
ranges at so much per foot frontage. The price mentioned to us by Mr. 
Walker, one of the proprietors, is so remarkably low, and the chances of sale, 
in a place which from 10,000 to 15,000 persons will probably pass through 
daily, so great, that we should think nurserymen and other growers of plants 
would find it well worth their while to send here some of their handsomest 
specimens. The architecture of the conservatory, which is by Sydney Smirke, 
Esq., is in the Indian Gothic style, and very handsome and appropriate. , 
Mr. Smirke has favoured us with some sketches, which we shall probably 
engrave at an early period. A plan, and farther particulars of the other parts 
of the building, will be found in our Architectural Magazine. 

The Stamford Hill Horticultural Reading Society, established Nov. 6. 1833. 


Lingland. 161 


— The objects of this Society are, to advance knowledge in the various de- 
partments of gardening, farming, forest planting, natural history, and rural 
economy, by the circulation of books; and by establishing a reading-room, in 
which the subscribers can meet on certain evenings to peruse any books then 
in the library, and to introduce a visiter upon payment of a stated sum: it will 
also serve to bring together those subscribers who wish, by information afforded 
to one another, or by bringing specimens of plants, &c., to facilitate such 
knowledge. These advantages, which can rarely be attained by any single 
individual, even at a great expense, may thus be placed within the reach 
of the whole Society at a trifling cost. The business of the Society is 
to be managed by a committee of twelve persons, assisted by a treasurer, 
secretary, and librarian, all of whom are to be chosen by the subscribers at the 
annual meeting in January; the other general meetings will be held in April, 
July, and October. The property of the Society is to be vested in three trustees, 
to be chosen at the first general meeting. The entrance money is 10s., and the 
quarterly payments 2s. 6d. Honorary members are to pay one guinea per 
annum, or to commute for this sum by one payment of five guineas. The 
rules and regulations, which are 19 in number, have been drawn up and 
printed. They may be had of Messrs. Low and Co. of the Clapton Nursery. 
This institution seems a very excellent one, and well worthy of imitation, 
wherever there are three or four gardeners, and a dozen or two of gardening 
amateurs. To the latter, the practical man, as he is at present circumstanced, 
must chiefly look for the purchase of books ; because what can a man at work 
in a nursery, who has only 12s. a week, spare for this purpose ? The journey- 
man or apprentice in private service is scarcely better off, and every thing, 
therefore, in the way of outlay of money, must depend on the master gardeners 
and amateurs. 

Emigration of Gardeners. — A correspondent, under the signature of 
Gracchus Colonus, recommends Prince Edward Island, in the Gulf of St. 
Lawrence (which, he says, he knows well), New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, 
and Cape Breton, as the most desirable parts of North America for gardeners 
to emigrate to. ‘ These countries,’ he says, “ are wholly free from the 
fevers, agues, and other distressing disorders, which ravage both the United 
States and the Canadas; and by going to them, the emigrant avoids the long 
and tedious land journey, which, in all probability, awaits him if he land either at 
Quebec or New York. In Prince Edward Island, especially, which was called by 
the French the granary of Canada, and which contains upwards of 1,000,000 
acres, and 4.0,000 inhabitants, no spot can be fixed upon more than ten miles from 
the sea. Land, of good quality, may be rented at 1s. per acre on a long lease, 
or the freehold may be purchased at from 15s. to 30s. per acre. A very able 
work, on the British colonies in North America, has been published by a 
Mr. M‘Gregor. I do not at all agree with the politics of the author, but, on 
account of his clear and unvarnished statements, I would recommend his book 
to the attentive perusal of all who intend to leave this country. [An Account 
of Prince Edward Island has also been recently published by Swale, of Great 
Russel Street, Bloomsbury.] 

“In conclusion, allow me to address a few words to such of my brother 
gardeners as are hesitating whether they shall emigrate, or stay here. Pray, 
gentlemen, what is the end you propose to yourselves by your labour? Is it 
not to acquire independence, if you can; and to leave your children comfort- 
ably provided for, but, above all, well educated? If you can accomplish this 
in another country in a very few years, while there is little chance of your ever 
doing it here, is it not worth while to remove? If you go to New York, or 
Quebec, the price of land is nearly as high as it is here; and there is, of 
course, great competition in trade and business. If you proceed up the 
country, a trackless wilderness, solitude, and disease, in all probability await 
you. Is it not better to go to a place where your journey terminates with 
the voyage, while at the same time land is so cheap that you may either at 


Vou. X.— No. 49. M 


162 Domestic Notices : — 


once, or very soon, establish yourselves and your children in independence 
and comfort ? 

“ In writing this letter, I am actuated solely by a sincere wish to benefit 
my brother gardeners. Should you, Sir, think it worth a place in your work, 
I shall afterwards submit to you a few details, with which it may be advisable 
that the emigrant should be acquainted.—Gracchus Colonus. London, Jan. 16. 
1834.” 

A British Gardener has just returned from the south of Russia, where he 
has been for two years in the service of a wealthy nobleman. His treatment 
by this individual was as good as the circumstances of the country permitted ; 
but these circumstances were such as to render it next to impossible for any 
person, in the capacity of a servant, to enjoy even a tithe of the comforts which 
he does in every other part of Europe. If this gardener were to publish his 
journal, or even as much of it as he told us, it would be highly instructive ; 
but we know, from personal experience, that such is the tyranny of the Rus- 

_ sian government, and the want of principle among all ranks in that country, 
that the mere publication of such a journal might injure British gardeners 
already settled in the neighbourhood of Moscow and Petersburgh. This 
notice is intended to put gardeners on their guard, and to remind them of what 
we have stated in the Hncyc. of Gard., § 7784. 2d edit., and Encyc. of Agr., 
§ 661. 2d edit. 

Mr. Brackenridge, late gardener to P. Neill, Esq., an excellent botanist and 
cultivator, is engaged as gardener to an eminent banker in Berlin; for which 
city he left London on March 7. We hopeto hear from him frequently. — Cond. 

Growing Ferns and other Plants in Glass Cases.— We lately (March 6.) 
had the pleasure of seeing the most extraordinary city garden we have ever 
beheld, viz., that of Mr. Ward of Wellclose Square, a gentleman enthusiastically 
devoted to botany. Along the tops of all the walls of his dwelling-house, of 
the offices behind, and of the wall round the yard, even up the gable ends and 
slopes of lean-tos, is a continuation of boxes or troughs, about 14 in. wide, 
filled with soil and divided crosswise by tiles, so as to form distinct compart- 
ments about 1 ft. by 6 in., in each of which one species of plant is grown. We 
should suppose there must be at least room found in this way for 1500 
species. The sloping roof of a shed is wholly covered with soil, and divided 
into compartments by slips of wood; in these compartments sedums, saxi- 
frages, and other succulents are grown. In the open yard there are two or 
three trees ; the best of which, for a London garden, Mr. Ward considers to 
be the fig. It thrives amongst smoke and dirt, and shows a broader leaf, and of 
a more intense green, than any other tree; and this either as a standard or 
against a wall. Next to the fig, the A‘cer Pseudo-Platanus is found to be 
the most prosperous. In the interior of Mr. Ward’s house, there are boxes 
in every window, some on the outside, and others on the inside, containing 
plants. These boxes are from 8 in. to 1 ft. in width, in length equal to the 
breadth of the window or its sill, or window seat; and the sides are from 
18 in. to 2 ft.in height. About 6 in. of the lower part of the sides, and the 
bottom, are of wood, put together so as to be watertight; and the upper part 
of the sides, and the top, are wholly of glass. In the bottom, soil, stones, 
moss, &c., are placed; and ferns and other plants are planted, and duly 
watered. This being done, and the superfluous water drained off through a 
plug-hole in the bottom, which is afterwards closely stopped, the close lid is 
put onthe box, and seldom, or never, afterwards taken off. ‘The plants are 
found to require no fresh supply of water for months, and some plants 
will live for years without any; and, as the lid is never taken off, they can 
have no fresh supply of air, otherwise than by the expansion produced by 
increased temperature forcing out a portion of air through the impercep- 
tible interstices of the lid; and, when the temperature is reduced, draw- 
ing air in, through the same interstices, by its contraction. This, no doubt, 
will take place more or less every day. The great advantage of admitting air 
only in this way is, that it is, as it were, sifted, or filtered, from the impurities 


England. 163 


which float in it; which impurities, and not any thing in its chemical cor- 
position, are now generally understood to be the cause why the air of London 
1s less favourable for both animal and vegetable life, than the air of the 
country. Mr. Ward has grown plants in boxes of this kind for three years 
with the greatest degree. of success; and he is now getting a box prepared, 
5 or 6 ft. square, and nearly 10 ft. high, in which he intends to have a rock- 
work covered with vegetation. In our next Number will be found a paper on 
this subject, by Mr. Ward: in the mean time, we have, at this late period, 
only time to state, that the success attending Mr. Ward’s experiments opens 
up extensive views as to their application in transporting plants from one 
country to another; in preserving plants in rooms, or in towns; and in 
forming miniature gardens or conservatories, either in rooms or on the inside 
or outside of windows, as substitutes for bad views, or for no views at all. 
Mr. Ward has no doubt, that by boxes of this kind, with requisite modifica- 
tions, he could transport plants from any one country in the world to any 
other country. In Mr. Ward’s drawing-room, we found a magnificent spe- 
cimen of Melianthus major coming into bloom; and his herbarium contains 
nearly 25,000 species, arranged according to the natural system, and placed in 
boxes on a highly improved plan. — Cond. 

A Smoke-consuming Furnace, formed of bricks, has been invented by Mr.. 
Ambrose Winder of Dale End, Birmingham, which possesses all the good qua- 
lities of Witty’s patent gas furnaces; and, in addition to this, it costs little more 
than a common furnace, in the erection and materials. Two of these furnaces 
have been fitted up in this garden, for heating two narrow houses lately erected 
for the Society by Mr. Thomas Clark, jun., Lionel Street, which answer well 
the purpose for which they were intended. — David Cameron. Botanic Gar- 
den, Birmingham, March 4, 1834. 

A great Improvement in the Garden Engine has recently been made by Mr. 
Read (inventor of the improved syringe, Encyc. of Gard., 2d edit. § 1419.). 
In consequence of having a reserved power of condensed air, he can throw 
the water in a fine shower to a much greater distance than can be done by the 
common engine, and this with much less labour to the operator.— Cond. 

Catching Moles in the Neck of a broken Bottle. —Take two common beer 
bottle necks, set them in the burrow with their wide ends outermost, facing the 
hole both ways; make them firm with a couple of sticks to each, crossing 
each other over the bottle necks, close to their widest ends; exclude light 
and air by a piece of turf or the like, and the trap is set. The mole, coming 
to the bottle-neck, finds the way plain, and squeezes herself in. She would 
get through, were she able to hold her hind feet on the glass to push her head 
and fore legs through; but here she fails, and is generally found squeezed in 
so hard that a stick is wanted to force her out. This mode of snaring was 
practised, if not invented, by a farmer in Banffshire in the early part of the 
seventeenth century; and it is likely that, though it might then have been 
generally known there, it has since been lost sight of in the adoption of 
less simple though more portable snares. By this means the poorest cottager 
might ensnare this unwelcome guest in his garden, whilst he might not be able 
to spare either his pence to buy, or his time to make, any other trap. — 
Adolescentulus. 

A new Description of Earthenware Tally (fig. 13.) made by Messrs. 
Doulton and Watts, High Street, Lambeth, promises to be both durable and 
economical, especially tor herbaceous plants, and also for plants in pots. 
We have given figures of five sorts, each of the full size, except Nos. 1. and 2., 
which have a portion of their lower ends broken off. No. 1. is 94in. long; 
No. 2. is 8Lin.; No. 3. is 6in.; No. 4. is 4in.; and No. 5., for pots, is 23in. 
The cost of the largest size is, we believe, about 16s. per gross; that of No. 2. 
12s.; of No. 3. 8s.; and of No.5. 4s. It will be observed from the engraving, 
that the numbers are impressed on the beveled surface of the top; and that, 
over the number, there is a letter in Nos. 1,2. and 4. The intention of 
the letters is to enable the enumeration to be carried to an indefinite extent, 

M 2 


England. 165 


notwithstanding the circumstance that not more than three figures, or 999, 
can be got in the width of the top of any one tally. The number 999, however, 
repeated as often as there are letters in the alphabet, would give upwards of 
25,000, which is as many species as are to be found in the open air in any 
botanic garden in Europe. By doubling and otherwise combining or changing 
the position of these letters, the enumeration might be carried to almost any 
extent. The projection in the head of No. 5. is intended to rest on the rim 
of the pot. The great advantages expected from these tallies are, as we have 
said above, economy of first cost, and durability. — Cond. 

The Oxford Botanic Garden. — It is stated in the newspapers that the late 
Dr. Williams, who was for forty years professor of botany at Oxford, and 
who, of course, had the general management of the garden, has bequeathed 
to it 500/. Dr. Daubeny, an eminent chemist and physiologist, as well as 
a botanist, has been appointed successor to Dr. Williams.— Id. 

Mr. Penny, late botanist in the Epsom Nursery, has joined Mr. Young, of 
the Milford Nursery near Godalming, which will henceforward be carried on 
under the firm of Young and Penny. One of the first collections of hardy 
plants in the country may therefore soon be expected at Milford; and, as a 
number of new hot-houses and pits have recently been erected there, the 
collection will not be deficient in house exotics. — Id. 

Kirk’s Nursery, Coventry.— We are happy to find that our correspondent 
Mr. Kirk, of whom, when we called on him in 1831 (see VII. 411.), we 
formed a very high opinion, has commenced business for himself. Mr. Kirk 
was many years foreman to the late Mr. Weare, and, in fact, appeared to us 
the only man in or about Coventry who really understood the nursery busi- 
ness. He is an excellent practical botanist, a most successful cultivator, and, 
from information which we have received from some gentlemen in the neigh- 
bourhood, we can assert, with the greatest confidence, that he is a good, an 
honest, and a most industrious man. He has also been very ill used by his 
late employers, Weare’s successors. Most sincerely do we wish him success ; 
and we entreat all our brother gardeners in that part of the country to enter 
into our ideas on the subject. Let every one only imagine himself in Mr. Kirk’s 
situation. — Cond. 

The celebrated Collection of Orchidee which belonged to the late Mrs. Ar- 
nold Harrison of Liverpool was purchased by Mr. Knight, Exotic Nursery, 
in the beginning of February last. — Id. 

Plants in Flower, at Shortgrove in Essex, on January 31. 1834.— Sir, The 
extraordinary mildness of the present winter, it is likely, will cause some of 
your correspondents to make their observations upon vegetation, the progress 
of which, in some species of plants, has, perhaps, never been paralleled at this 
season of the year. I herewith transmit to you the names of a few; they are 
such as have come under my notice at Shortgrove, where the soil is by no 
means favourable to early vegetation, nor is the situation in any wise con- 
ducive to the promotion of premature growth. 

Cérasus Latro-Cérasus (common laurel), Ligfistrum lucidum var. flori- 
bandum (Chinese privet), wallflower, crocuses in variety, snowdrops, Kérra 
japOnica, Rosa semperflorens and {indica minor, Cheiranthus mutabilis, 
anemones, polyanthus, A’rabis alpina, hepaticas, narcissus, sweet alyssum, 
marigolds, periwinkle ; Chrysanthemum sinénse, several varieties; common 
yew (7'xus baccata), Phillyrea latifolia, sloe tree (Primus spindsa). Ca- 
lampelis scAbra is beautifully in flower in a garden at Saffron Walden. Fil- 
berts are in bloom, their catkins decaying, or fallen off. Gooseberry bushes 
partially in blossom, with fruit as large as sweet peas. Pzednia Mowtan and 
M. papaveracea, with flower-buds the size of large cob nuts. Sambucus 
nigra (common elder) in leaf. I am, Sir, yours, &c.— 7’. Rutger. Short- 
grove, Jan 31. 1834. 

Plants in Bloom at Bury St. Edmunds, and other Parts in the East of ‘England, 
early in December, 1833.— The hawthorn was in bloom in the picturesque 
grounds of the Rev. Edw. Mathew, Pentlow Hall, Cavendish, Suffolk ; an entire 

M 3 


166: Domestic Notices : — England. 


branch, of considerable length and great beauty, overhanging a rivulet among 
other old deciduous trees. It would be endless to name the plants and 
-shrubs which displayed their unusual but interesting beauties during the extra- 
ordinary season up to January, 1834. At East Cliff, Ramsgate, the superb 
seat of Moses Montefiore, Esq., the laburnum and lilac were in flower at the 
end of December, and the pelargoniums blooming freely in the clumps. On 
my return to the botanic garden which I have established in the Abbey 
Grounds, Bury St. Edmunds, Eranthis hyemalis and Crocus biflorus were in 
bloom, with Salvia falgens, Hepatica triloba, Cyclamen coum, Primula 
veris, and several species of Narcissus. — N.S. Hodson. Abbey Grounds, 
Bury St. Edmunds, Jan. 1834. 

The Primula vulgaris was in flower here on Noy. 18. 1833; and the Eran- 

this hyemalis on Dec. 4. 1833.—W.T. Bree. Allesley Rectory, near Coventry. 

_A friend has remarked to us that the crocuses have this spring flowered less 
vigorously and less satisfactorily than after winters whose severity and length 
had given them a considerable period of absolute repose. He instanced 
several species of plants whose habit is to display their flowers or leaves in 
early spring as being in the same case. This is likely; as incessant excite- 
ment must abate energy. Plants in every region, even in tropical ones, ex- 
perience a season of rest ; and, it is assumed, when they resume their growth, 
proceed with such an increase of effectiveness, as compensates for the interval 
of inertness. — J. D. 

Magnolia conspicua. — This charming tree is now magnificently in bloom in 
Messrs. Chandler’s nursery, both in pots under glass and in the open garden. 
A fine specimen, in a pot, was exhibited at the Horticultural Society’s meet- 
ing, on March 4., when it was stated to us that the number of blooms open 
at one time in the nursery, the day before, was estimated at 18,000. Why this 
tree of white tulip-like flowers, now so cheap, should not be more common, 
we are utterly at a loss to understand. It will grow even in the smoke of 
London. — Cond. Soh 

Bérberis Aquifolium Ph., Mahonia Aquifilium Nutt.— This truly beautiful, 
and as yet rare, hardy evergreen shrub has been for the last six weeks beau- 
tifully in flower in the Chiswick Garden. It is a plant worth its weight mm 
gold; and nurserymen ought to endeavour to get hundreds of it from Phil- 
adelphia. Another beautiful Bérberis has lately been introduced by Mr. 
Knight of the Exotic Nursery. — Id. 

Arboretums, we are happy to find, are gradually rising up in the private 
grounds of gentlemen in different parts of the country. Near Theobalds, 
in the grounds of William Harrison, Esq., F.R.S., there is one said to con- 
tain as complete a collection of the genus Pinus as the pinetum at Drop- 
more; and at Somerford, near Wolverhampton, in the grounds of Edward 
Monckton, Esq., there is a collection of thorns said to comprise upwards of 
seventy species and varieties, besides all the species and varieties of other 
hardy trees and shrubs which have of late years been purchasable in the 
nurseries. There is an arboretum forming at Wardour Castle; one at Leigh 
Park near Havant, the seat of Sir George Staunton; and several, we are in- 
formed, in the northern counties of England, of which we should be glad to 
have accounts. This is a sort of improvement which we like very much to 
see going on. When we consider the number of trees and shrubs in the tem- 
perate regions of Asia and South America, independently of North American 
trees and shrubs, which remain to be introduced into the country, the mind is 
lost in admiration of what must be the ultimate richness of our woody scenery. 
On the other hand, it is interesting to contemplate the result of transplanting 
the trees and shrubs of the temperate regions of Europe into the temperate 
regions of every other part of the globe. Nature has given to every particular 
country some peculiar product; and it is for civilised man to collect, improve, 
and equalise these products in every country, subject only to certain limitations 
of climate. In everything which regards civilisation and refinement, the ulti- 
mate tendency is to equalisation. — Id. 


Calls at Suburban Gardens. 167 


Art. Ill. Calls at Suburban Gardens. 


WE introduce this article occasionally, chiefly for the sake of showing that 
we are unceasing in our endeavours to procure information respecting all that 
is going on in the gardening world. 

Nov. 14, and 15. — Called upon professionally to visit the neighbourhood 
of Greenhithe. We were much gratified by the appearance of the cottage 
gardens by the roadside; in which the chrysanthemums were in fine bloom, 
together with georginas, China roses, French and common marigolds, and, 
owing to the mildness of the weather, many other flowers not usually blossom- 
ing at this season. Near Shooter’s Hill, we had the pleasure ofseeing the neat 
and economical double cottages, with 24 acres of land laid to each, built by 
our correspondent, William Bardwell, Esq.,architect, and figured and described 
in our Encyclopedia of Cottage, Farm, and Villa Architecture, § 477. We were 
much gratified with their substantial and architectural appearance ; which was 
the more striking when contrasted with the rude hovels erected around them 
by the occupants ; as pigsties, sheds for fuel, &c. Passing our friend Park’s 
nursery, we observed many good things in it, and an appearance of order and 
neatness throughout. At a short distance beyond Dartford, a piece of ground 
is now being laid out under the direction of our gifted architectural corre- 
spondent, E. B. Lambe, Esq.; a plan of which we hope, one day, to lay before 
our readers, as a specimen of the economical distribution of a number of 
cottage villas over a very limited space. This space, being full of inequalities, 
affords a fine exercise for the ingenuity of the artist. The boundary of no one 
villa will be seen from its windows, while all of them will have a distant 
prospect of the Thames, and of the Essex coast beyond. Respecting the 
grounds which we were called on to look over, we shall say nothing at present, 
farther than that they display one of the most striking instances of the effect 
of contrast that can well be imagined. From one part of the house, which is 
placed in an elevated situation, is seen an extensive prospect up the Thames ; 
and from the other we look down a precipice into a wooded glen, of four or 
five acres, the sides of which are of chalk rock, upwards of 100 feet high, and 
crowned with lofty woods. We hope, by and by, to do justice to this place, 
and to the ingenious young architect, Charles Morring, Esq. , who is erecting 
a beautiful Tudor villa, in Portland stone, for the proprietor. It is seldom 
that we find so much taste in those who profess at once to be architects and 
builders ; but the progress of architecture and building will, we believe, lead 
to the blending of both professions; at least, with regard to all buildings of 
moderate extent; in the same manner that, in a few years, most head gar- 
deners will be landscape-gardeners. 

Passing Messrs. Cormack and Sinclaw’s Nursery, on our return, we were 
gratified by observing the deep reds, purples, and yellows of the still remaining 
leaves of the oaks, acers, birches, sorbs, thorns, liquidambars, and other 
American trees, which we are so anxious should be introduced in every park 
and pleasure-ground. 

Nov. 27. — Colville’s Nursery. The principal articles in flower were, chry- 
santhemums, Amaryllidee ; some forced polyanthus narcissuses, and heaths ; 
Oncidium flexudsum, which has been in flower for several months, has now 
a stem 11] ft. in length. Several other orchideous epiphytes are swelling 
their seed-pods ; and the seeds of others, ripened and sown in the same house, 
are now germinating. The milk tree (Galactodéndron utile Hum.) is in a 
thriving state, about 2 ft. high; and the stem, when very slightly pricked, gives 
out abundance of milk. 

Knights Exotic Nursery. Mr. Knight has just returned from a tour in 
France and the Netherlands (p.7.); where he purchased various new and 
valuable articles. The Chinese azaleas (IX. 474.) are in a thriving state, and 
many of them have formed blossom buds, as have the tree rhododendrons, all 
of which will make a splendid show in the spring. In the stove, Mr. Scott 

mM 4 


168 Calls at Suburban Gardens. 


pointed out to us that the dependent fibres from the epiphytes all pointed to 
the nearest wall, except when they were fixed to a pot ora piece of wood; 
in which case they adhered to the solid material. The cause of their pointing 
to the wall, Mr. Scott supposed to be the principle of attraction of gravitation. 

In the Fulham Nursery, the fine large specimen of the Fulham oak (which 
is the original tree) still retains all its leaves, and these continue to be of a 
deep green colour, while the American oaks have lost their leaves. The 
Arando Donax, or Italian reed, has here withstood the last three winters, in- 
stead of dying down to the ground, as is generally the case when the weather 
is very severe. The plant now presents a series of bamboo-looking rods, 
from 5 ft. to 15 ft. in height, having altogether a very Oriental appearance. 
We would strongly recommend this reed as a lawn plant, for appropriate 
situations, in extensive grounds, or for adding to the interest of those multum 
in parvo gardens which are generally found in suburban streets. In these 
latter gardens, appropriate situations are out of the question; they are more 
to be considered as museums of living plants; since within a plot of a few 
square yards may frequently be seen the cedar of Mount Libanus, the 
swamp cedar, the rhododendron of North America, the yucca from the same 
country, and the aucuba, and cydonia of Japan, the lilac of Persia, with the 
arbutus of Ireland and Italy, &c. This is all very proper, and consistent 
with the idea of every ornamental garden being a museum of greater or less 
extent, according to the space it affords and the means of the proprietor. 

The Villa of Horsley Palmer, Esq., at Parsons Green, fulham. Mr. Perkins’s 
mode of heating by hot water, adopted here in 1831 (see EX. 202.), con- 
tinues to give perfect satisfaction. The houses were in beautiful order, and, 
with the conservatory at the mansion, exhibited a splendid display of chrysan- 
themums. Several camellias were in flower, including Press’s eclipse. Cana- 
rina Campanula, trained in the form of a cone to the height of five feet, dis- 
played a great many of its bell-shaped flowers, terminating the lateral shoots 
like the bells of a Chinese pagoda. This most elegant plant is too much 
neglected. When well cultivated, it is capable of being rendered an object of 
very great beauty and also one of curiosity. We intend to revisit this place in 
the spring. 

Clarence Lodge, - Hodgson, Esq. The conservatory is, as usual, in 
beautiful order, and very splendid. Some of the acacias form large and hand- 
some trees, and will soon be covered with bloom, which they will retain 
all the winter. The view from the garden front of the house, over a valley, 
is agreeable; but the system of walks on that side is not good, and every 
thing on the entrance front is, in our opinion, decidedly bad. 

The Hammersmith Nursery. Upwards of forty varieties of chrysanthemums 
are in bloom, but none of them luxuriantly so. Various reasons prevented 
Mr. Cornelius from attending to them sufficiently, but he has promised to 
produce a very superior display next season. Chimonanthus fragrans, on a 
western exposure, is thickly covered with blossom buds, many of which are 
already expanded, and perfume the air for some distance round. It is per- 
fectly astonishing to us, that, after all which we have said in favour of this 
plant, it should be so little known and cultivated. It is as hardy as the 
common privet, and therefore ought to be in every street garden ; whereas it is 
not in one in five thousand. One plant, trained against a house in the way 
that vines, jasmines, and the Virginian creepers commonly are, would remain 
in bloom from December till March, supplying blossoms for perfuming the 
rooms within, every day during that period. When the chimonanthus ceased 
flowering, perfume might be supplied by pots of hyacinths, violets, or migno- 
nette ; while Caprifolium italicum and chinénse (Lonicera flexuosa), the flowers 
of the latter of which are among the sweetest of the English gardens, come into 
bloom in May, and continue till September. 


Floricultural and Botanical Notices. 169 


Art. IV. Floricultural and Botanical Notices of new Plants, and of 
old Plants of Interest, supplementary to the latest Editions of the 
“ Encyclopedia of Plants,” and of the “ Hortus Britannicus.” 


Curtis's Botanical Magazine; each monthly Number containing eight plates; 
3s. 6d. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Hooker, King’s Professor of 
Botany in the University of Glasgow. 

Edwards's Botanical Register; each monthly Number containing eight plates ; 
4s. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Lindley, F.R.S., Professor of Botany 
in the London University. 

Sweet's British Flower-Garden; each monthly Number containing four plates ; 
3s. coloured, 2s. 3d. plain. Edited by David Don, Esq., Librarian to the 
Linnean Society. 

Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London. Second Series. Vol. I. 
Part V. 4to. Pages 343. to 418. London, 1834. 


Facts and Considerations which have a general Relation to Floriculture. 

Species of Plants, new to Britain, received from South America by the London 
Horticultural Society, from their Collector, Mr. David Douglas, during the Years 
1831, 1832, 1833. — In the recently published part v. of the Society’s new 
series of their Transactions there is a report, by G. Bentham, Esq., the secre- 
tary, “on some of the more remarkable hardy ornamental” species which 
have been received within the time stated, and a notice of some of the cir- 
cumstances which have directed Mr. Douglas’s researches. For the latter, 
see the report in the Transactions. Of the plants enumerated in the report, 
the following had been previously, from time to time, published in the Bota- 
nical Register, and have been notified to our readers; namely, Lupinus rivu- 
laris, Clarkia élegans, Calandrinia speciésa, Gnothéra densiflora, Madia 
élegans, Stenactis specidsa, Neméphila aurita, Mimulus réseus, Calochértus 
luteus, Calliprora lutea, Hesperoscérdon lacteum, and several species of 
Polemoniacez. For the names of the last, see our IX. 705, 706. In addition 
to these, the report communicates the characteristics and names of several 
species not previously described; figures are added of six of them. Of all 
of these we have transcribed short notices into our following two-monthly 
catalogue. A second report, it is stated, of additional species of plants raised 
from seeds transmitted by Mr. Douglas, will shortly be laid before the Society. 

An Instance of the Economy which is observable in every Part of Nature. — 
“ Pyrus crenata D. Don is found naturally in the highest of the mountainous 
parts of Northern India, from an elevation of near 12,000 ft. downward to 
9000 ft., and lower. Nature seems to have intended it to brave the utmost 
inclemency of climate; for, in its own country, in the earliest spring, the 
leaves, while still delicate and tender, are clothed with a thick white coating 
of wool; and the flowers themselves are so deeply immersed in an ample 
covering of the same material, as to bid defiance to even Tartarian cold. But 
in proportion as the extent of the distribution of the plant descends towards 
the plains, or as the season of warm weather advances, it throws off its fleecy 
coat, and at length becomes as naked and as glittering with green as the trees 
which have never had such rigour to endure. In England it scarcely acquires 
any part of its natural woolliness, but is as naked as our common beam tree.” 
(Dr. Lindley, in Bot. Reg., t. 1655., March.) The leaves of the 4’sculus 
Hippocastanum, while enfolded in the bud, are plentifully invested with wool, 
which is absent when the leaves have become expanded. Pubescence is deci- 
duous off the young leaves of the beech tree and those of many plants: it 
seems also, in exotic pubigerous plants cultivated in Britain, variable, according 
to the dryness or moistness of the season, in the quantity developed. 

The University Botanic Garden, Gottingen.— From our friend M. C. A. 
Fischer, the inspector of this garden, we, on March 9., received a packet of 
seeds ; two copies of the Index Seminum Horti Academici Gottingensis, 1833 ; 


170 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


and a communication, dated Feb. 3. 1834, from which we transcribe the fol- 

lowing information : — “ I now have the pleasure to send you some seeds for 
one of your friends, if you do not make use of them yourself. It would be very 
agreeable to me to have some additional correspondents, through whose ser- 
vices, reciprocated by mine to them, our garden might be benefited. I send 
two copies of our Index Seminum [or catalogue of seeds offered in exchange], 
from which any friend can choose out the species he desires. Seeds, whe- 
ther imported or ripened in Britain, of any new or interesting plants, will be 
welcome; as likewise any thing new of an agricultural description. Our 
botanic garden has been extended by the addition of ten acres, and part of 
this space will be appropriated to the plants of agriculture ; so, you see, that 
any thing new will be of great importance..... Send all letters to the Ha- 
noverian Office, Duke Street, Piccadilly.” 

The seeds received we have sent to our friend Mr. George Penny, (late 
botanical cultivator in the Epsom Nursery, now) nurseryman, Milford, near 
Godalming, Surrey; who, we doubt not, will prove a correspondent of great 
value to our friend M. Fischer. Some of the seeds in the packet bear names 
additional to those published in the Hort. Brit. and in this Magazine ; and, as 
it is probable that plants will be raised from most of them by Mr. Penny, and 
that the species will thus be added to the British national collection, we take 
this timely opportunity of registering the names of the species seemingly not 
before in cultivation in it. Before we do this, however, we may just express 
our admiration of a plan which is adopted in the Index Seminum: that of 
giving, in footnotes, at the bottom of the columns of names, the characteristics 
of those species, mingled amongst the rest, which Schrader, the botanical pro- 
fessor at Gottingen, has described and denominated : — 


Achyranthes uncinulata Schrad. w or # C. G. H., Syn. Paronychia capénsis ‘Eckl. [This is 
described in the Index]; Achyropappus schkuhrioides H. Ber. OJ; Aconitum ochranthum Led. 
A ; Apargia vérna Salzm. ©; A’rabis declinata Schrad.; A’rabis lildcina Schrad. ; Archangélica 
decurrens Led. A; Arenaria stenophylla Led. A; Artemisia aprica Led. A ; A’triplex crassi- 
folia Led. Q; Avena pulchélla Link, O ; Bérberis mitis Schrad. % [described in the Index as a 
dwarf much-branched shrub from North America; with simple oblong oval leaves, serrulate 
towards the apex; and with dark purple berries]; Bétula grandis Schrad. ¥ [described in the 
Index as assimilating closely to B. papyracea: it is from North America]; Bupletrum multinérve 
Dec. AV 3 Calandrinia discolor Schrad.; Cardamine nasturtiana Bert.; Carduus myriacanthus 
Salzm. O ; Ceratoéchloa péndula Schrad, QO; Chardinéa xerantheméides Desf. O ; Chenopddium 
chilénse Schrad. © ; Chenopddium hircinum Schad. © [in the JIndea it is stated to be a species 
from Brazil, with a leaf like that of opulifdlium, but larger; that it is from 4 ft. to 6 ft. high; and 
has the odour of C, dlidum]; Cineraria gibbdsa Guss. AJ; Clématis Jathyrifolia Bess. A ; Ferula 
sulcata Desf. 6 campéstris A, ; Goldbachéa toruldsa Dec. O ; Gymnéstyles pterospérma J. O]; Gyp- 
séphila stricta Bung. A. ; Leontrus glaucéscens Bung. A ; Lepidium Gussonz Schrad. ©), Syn. 
Thiaspi pubéscens Guss.; L¥chnis pusilla Lk. Aj; Melildtus hamodsa Bess. O ; Mondlepis trifida 
Schrad. © ; Nasturtium eréctum 7Z7ev. O]; Nicotédna micrantha H. Par. O ; Ondnis brevifdlia 
Dec. O or CE ; Polemdnium disséctum Rchb. A; Silene Cseréii Baumg. A; Siléne juvenalis Delz/. 
O; Siléue neglécta Ten. O; Sisymbrium incanum Bernh. ©; Solidago grandifléra Desf. A. Of 
the three following, Cineraria auriculata Led. A. and Erigeron ciliatus Led. © are published in IX. 
112., but without authorities; and Randinculus angulatus Pres? A in IX. 241., but with a different 
authority. —J. D. 


PoLyPETALOUS DicoTYLEDONOUS PLANTSs. 


IV. Papaveracee. 


33691. PLATYSTE*MON Benth. (Platys, broad, stémon, stamen; filament obcordate.) 13.6. Sp. 1.— 
califérnicus Benth. Californian © orl au Y_ California 1833. S s.1 Hort. trans, 2.s. 1.405 
Synonyme: Genus Bodthza Douglas MSS. Mr. Bentham has felt himself obliged to supersede this 

name, as he conceives that it would not be distinguished by foreigners from the genus Bodtia 
Wallich. Mr. Bentham has written Platystémon califérnicum: but is not sfémdn masculine ? 


A low, branching, erect, pale green, annual plant, partially pubescent. Leaves 
alternate, oblong, lanceolate, obtuse, entire. Peduncles axillary, solitary, 
6 in. long, tipped by an erect, fragrant, pale yellow flower, rather larger than 
that of Helianthemum vulgare. The plants last year raised from the seeds 
sent home by Mr. Douglas flowered very sparingly ; but fine dried specimens 
received with the seeds evidence it a plant of considerable beauty. It is one 
of high interest to the botanist, “ from forming the connecting link between 
the Ranunculacez and Papaveracee. It has close affinity with Eschschdltzia 
through the genera Platystigma and Dendromécon.” (Bentham, in Hort. 
Trans., 2d series, 1. 405, 406.) 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 171 


3369y. PLATYSTI”GMA Benth.” Es (Platys, broad, stigma ; stigma ovate.) 13.1. Sp. 1.— 
lineare Benth. linear-Ifd. y —| pr 3... Y California 1833. S... Hort. trans. 2. s. 1.406, 407 


The description of the genus and species is from dried native specimens. 
Living plants have not yet flowered in Britain. “ It resembles, in habit, Pla- 
tystémon californicus; but it is smaller, more tufted, and widely distinct in 
botanical characters. The flowers are yellow, rather smaller than those of the 
Platystémon.” (Bentham.) 


3369z. DENDROME‘CON Benth. (Dendron, a tree, mékon, a poppy ; shrubby habit and affinity.) 
13.1. Sp. 1.— 

rigida Benth. stif-habited % _|or2? ... Y¥? California 1833. S... Hort. trans. 2.s. 1.407 

Mr. Bentham has written Dendromécon rigidum ; as meékon is feminine, we have written tigida. 


This is described from native specimens ; but it is possible that Mr. Douglas 
sent home seeds from which, if sown, plants may by this time have arisen. 
“A densely leafy, rigid, smooth, little shrub. Leaves lanceolate, denticulate, 
wrinkled, rigid. Peduncles axillary, one-flowered. The flowers appear to be 
yellow, and nearly as large as those of Papaver nudicatle.” It is a very 
remarkable plant in this order, on account of its shrubby stem and coriaceous 
leaves and capsules.” (Bentham.) 


3370. ESCHSCHO’LTZIA. 
28369a crocea Benth. saffron-petaled *% A or 1 jl.o Saf California 1833. S co Hort. trans. 2.s.1.407 


In general habit, foliage, and size of the flower, E. crocea closely resembles 
E. californica; but promises far to surpass it in the rich orange colour of the 
petals. EE. crocea is equally hardy, and appears to flower even more freely. 
It is botanically distinguished from E. californica by the widely expanded 
limb of that curious appendage of the peduncle beneath the insertion of the 
calyx which is characteristic of the genus, and by the long attenuated point of 
the calyx. (Bentham) 

Mr. Douglas has also sent home dried specimens and seeds of other species 
of Eschscholtzia: these Mr. Bentham has described and named cespitosa, 
tenuifolia, hypecdides (whose flower resembles that of Hypécoum grandi- 
florum) ; “ but no seed of them has vegetated.” 


1553 MECONO’PSIS. 
13793a heterophylla Benth. various-lvd. ¥? A? pr. 1? ... O.R California 1833. S co Hort.trans.2.s.1.408 


crassifolia Benth. thick-lfd. 3? A? pr. 1?... O.R California 1833, S co Hort.trans.2.s.1.408 

Described from dried specimens. A plant or plants of one of the species 
has been raised in the Horticultural Society’s garden; and, although the 
plant or plants died, it is hoped that more will be raised from a share of the 
first imported seed, which had been reserved. ‘ The flowers of both species 
are of an orange red, about the size of that of Papaver Argemone: they do 
not appear likely to be so ornamental as many others of the poppy tribe now 


in cultivation.” (Bentham.) 
XLV. Grossulacee. 


719 RI<BES. 
+28130 punctatum R. & P. dotted-/fd. #pr3?apmy  Y,.G Chile 1826. C co Bot. reg. 1658 
A figure of a plant is published in the Bot. Reg. for Nov. 1829, t. 1278., which Dr. Lindley has 
there named fibes punctatum, and identified by the same references as those given in t. 1658 ; 
but with the latter figure and description he does not couple any mention of, or reference to, 


the figure and description at t. 1278. 

A rather pretty evergreen shrub, remarkable for the shining yellowish green 
appearance of the leaves, and the short bunches of yellowish flowers. It is 
hardy enough to live in a dry border without protection ; and would probably 
succeed extremely well in the south of England, in rocky situations. The 
species has been cultivated in the Horticultural Society’s garden for several 


years. (Bot. Reg., March.) 


5059 nigrum 

2bacca flavidi —_—-yellowish-berried % cu 4 ap.my Wsh .. 000 C co 

This may not be a variety of nigrum; but it resembles nigrum in habit and appearance wholly. 
All that I know of its history is, that W. Oldham, Esq., when residing at Rickinghall, near 
Diss, Norfolk, presented, on Oct. 2. 1827, cuttings of it to the botanic garden at Bury St. Ed- 
munds, Suffolk, as of *‘ the green-berried black currant ;’’ and stated that it had been received 
into his neighbourhood from that of Bath. The cuttings were planted, grew, and formed plants, 
which bore berries not green but obscurely yellow, flavoured like those of the black currant ; 

. and, besides, plenty of branches for other cuttings, which were supplied to several persons who 
had asked for them: among others, to (1 believe) J. Sabine, Esq., for the London Horticultural 


Society. —J. D. 


f 


172 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


XLVI. Cactee. 


1474. OPU'NTIA. 
teylindrica Dec. cylindric-branched %#* gr 6 .. s Peru 1799. Cs. Bot. mag. 3301 

Céreus cylindricus Hort. Brit., No. 12578.; Opuntia cylindrica Hort. Brit., p. 479. 

This very interesting species, which has not yet flowered in Britain, has at 
length flowered in a Madeira garden. The Howers are produced, several 
together, just below the ends of the branches, rather small and inconspicuous, 
about 1 in. in diameter, scarlet. O. cylindrica “ is truly intermediate between 
Céreus and Opintia.” (Bot. Mag., Feb.) 

Céreus triangularis will, like Cucumis Melo, the Melon Plant, emit Roots into 
contiguous Water. — In the end of 1833, I was shown, in the hot-house of the 
Rev. Edward Mathew, Pentlow Hall, Cavendish, Suffolk, Céreus triangularis 
rooting freely into water. The plant was standing near a leaden cistern 
occupied by water and growing plants of Mymphz‘a cexrilea and minor. 
The Céreus triangularis had extended some of its branches within a short 
distance of the water, and these had emitted roots freely into the water.— 
N.S. Hodson. Bury St. Edmunds, Jan. 1834. 

LXXIUI. Rosacee. 


1522. RO*SA 13470 indica. [Sw. fl.gar. 2.8. 229 
nivea D. Don white double-flowered Notsette’s a or 3 jl W.R Gardens 1831? cil 
Imported from France, by Mr. Dennis, nurseryman, Chelsea, under the name of Azme Vibert ; 

and is doubtless a hybrid production, most probably originated between Adsa indica and #. mos- 
chata, (D. Don.) 


Flowers very full of snow-white rather crumpled petals ; the outer petals of 
the expanded flowers, and the exterior petals of the flower-buds, are of a deep 
red colour. From forty to fifty flowers, disposed in a corymb, terminate some 
of the shoots; and, as all the shoots evince a propensity to produce flowers 
wood-shgots for cuttings are but sparingly supplied. (Zhe British Flower- 
Garden, March.) Mr. Dennis has informed us that he has also imported 
a beautiful variety, whose habit is in the mode of the “ four-seasons ” 
variety : it has rather large flowers, full of petals, which have a lilac-purple 
ground, and are striped with white. He also possesses the double-flowered 
Macartney, the flowers of which are beautiful, full of petals (double), and 
fragrant. 

LXXIV. Pomacee. 

1507. PY*RUS. 
$12951 crenata D. Don notched-2fd. % or 15 my.jn W Nepal 1820. Ge Bot. reg. 1655 

The fine large leaves of this species render it to be desired in the shrub- 
bery; its flowers, too, are ornamental. It is to be increased by grafting on 
the whitethorn. The figure is from a plant in the London Horticultural 
Society’s garden. See also in p.169. (Bot. Reg., March.) 

LXXVII. Leguminose. 

1260. GASTROLO‘BIUM. 
10566a retusum Lindl. blunt-lfd. #tjlorl1i my OS N. Holl. 1830. C slp Bot. reg. 1647 

“A smaller plant than G. bilobum. Its flowers are of the same rich orange 
yellow, but in smaller heads; and their keel is not purple, but of the same 
colour as the other petals.” According to the figure, each head is composed 
of about twenty flowers: the heads are both terminal and axillary. Mr. 
Knight, Chelsea, possesses it; he raised it from seeds collected by Mr. Bax- 
ter. “ It is a pretty green-house plant, easily propagated by cuttings.” (Bot. 
Reg., Feb.) 

1945. SCO’TTT4. 
173lla levis Lindl. smooth-branched #\_Jor 3 jus? Y.S N. Holl. 1833. Cs.p Bot. reg. 1652 

A third species of the rare genus Scottza. Mr. Knight, Chelsea, has raised 
it from seeds collected by Mr. Baxter. “ It differs from S. dentata, not only 
in its flowers having no tinge of red, and in its narrower, more finely toothed 
leaves, but also in its branches being altogether free from the numerous rough 
projecting points which are found upon those of both the other species.” 
S. la‘vis is “a delicate green-house plant: it requires a cool shelf in the 
winter, and abundant ventilation.” (ot. Reg., Feb.) 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 173 


1980. ADE/SMTA. (Sw. fl.gar. 2.s, 230 
viscosa Gill. & Hook. clammy-herbaged %? we?  Jor3au Y Chile 1832. C ltl 


A very pleasing species; spineless, of upright growth and elegant leaves, 
which consist of from 9 to 14 pairs of small oblong crenated leaflets; the 
flowers are produced 8 or 10 in a raceme, which, where present, terminates a 
branch; the corolla is of a rich gamboge yellow, and large for the genus. 
Messrs. Allen and Rogers, nurserymen, Chelsea and Battersea, have raised 
the A. viscosa. (The British Flower-Garden, March.) 


*1985. LUPI‘NUS. 
17706a nanus Benth. dwarf *O or 1? jls B.Va_ Calitornia 1833. Ss.1 Hort. trans.2.s, 1. pl.14. fig.2 


Is elegant from the number of its flowers and their variegated colour. 
Leaves much like those of L. bicolor. It produces freely flowers and seeds, 
and is a desirable ornament of the garden. The Horticultural Society has 
already distributed seeds of it. (Bentham, in Hort. Trans., 2d ser. i. 410.) 

idensifldrus Benth. dense-inflor, © or = jl.s W.Pk California 1833. Ss.l Hort. trans.2.s.1.410 


Leaves of about nine leaflets, covered with fine soft hairs. The flowers 
grow in whorls which nearly touch each other; the corollas are white, deli- 
cately stained with pink; they are also a little speckled at the base of the 
vexillum. J. densiflorus probably requires shade. (Bentham, in Hort. Trans., 
2d ser. 1. 410.) 


28462a Albifrons Benth. hoary-herbaged %# _| or 33.1 Dp.B California 1833. C s.1 Bot. reg. 1642 
Very near Z. ornatus; from which it differs in its shrubby habit, short leaves, long and slender 
racemes, and rather smaller deep blue flowers. (Benth. in Hort. Trans. 2d ser. i. 410.) 


The flowers are in racemes | ft. in length. ‘ Although not so handsome as 
ZL. ornatus, it is well deserving of cultivation. It is not, perhaps, hardy 
enough to bear the rigour of our winters without protection; but it seems to 
thrive in a glass pit, and would probably succeed in the front of a south wall, 
covered from wet in winter. It seems not to seed freely, and does not 
increase readily by cuttings. (Bot. Reg., figure in Jan., text in Feb.) 

Jeptophyllus Benth. narrow-leafleted © or 1 jl.s B.Li California 1833. S s.1 Hort.tr.2.s.1.411 


A species not so pretty as many others. It is remarkable for its narrow 
leaflets and hairy surface. The corollas are elegantly coloured with bluish- 
lilac, and there is a deep crimson stain in the middle of the standard. The 
species probably delights in shade. (Bentham, in Hort. Trans., 2d. ser. 1. 4:11.) 

(Hort. trans. 2.s. 1.411 
hirsutissimus Benth. most hairy-herbaged © cu 2? jl.s P.R California 1833. S sl 

Interesting botanically. Its leaves are spotted with pale green, in the man- 
ner those of a Pulmonaria are with white ; the corollas are of a reddish purple 
colour. (Bentham, in Hort. Trans., 2d ser. 1.411.) 

CHI. Malpighiacee. 

1395a. STIGMAPHY’LLUM fii. Coe a Sema s plylor, a leaf ; stigma foliaceous.) 


op. O.: 


aristatum Lindl. awned-Jfd. $$ (L)or20? jnau Y Brazil 1832? C p.s.l Bot. reg. 1699 


A handsome plant. The leaves are stalked and arrow-shaped, and are dis- 
posed in pairs at intervals along the branches: these are long, slender, and 
twining. The flowers, which are yellow, each as broad as a shilling, and of 
five fringed petals, are placed, from three to five together, in an umbel. The 
umbels are stalked, and in pairs, from the axils of the opposite leaves. “ The 
different species of this genus are common in Brazil.” S. aristatum is figured 
from the stove of Mrs. Marryatt of Wimbledon, who had received it under the 
name of Banistéria auriculata ; “ which is quite another species, but of the 
same genus.” 


‘auriculatum (Lindl. ?) auricled (/fd.2) $ [Lior 10... Y Brazil 1820. C ps.l Cav. dis. 255 

Banistéréa auriculata Cav,, Hort. Brit. 11746. 

The scandent species of Malpighidcee ascend by means of an entwining habit (_¢ $ ) rather than 
by means of tendrils of any kind (& § ). Accordingly, the sign § may be substituted in Hort. 
Brit. for the sign §, in those of the species to which it is attached in the genera Byrsénima, 
Galphimia, Ge/rtnera, ThryAllis, Hire‘a, Tridpteris, Banisttria, Heterdpteris. 


CXIX. Zygophillee. 


1304a. FABA*GO Led. Bran Carer. (Faba, a bean ; leaves resemble those of a bean.) 10. 1. Sp. 2—6? 
major D. Don larger Y A or4jls W.Saf Syria 1596. S gral Sw.fl.gar.2.s.226 
Zygophyllum Fabago L.' Hort. Brit. 10886. ‘* We willingly follow Mr. Brown in separating this 

species from Zygophfllum, from which it is distinguished by several important characters; 


174 - Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


especially by the position of the radicle in respect to the hilum.”—D. Don, who cites, from Lede- 
one ae his own examination, five other zygophyllums which are probably referable to the genus 
F. major appears to delight in a gravelly loam. In the Chelsea Botanic 
Garden, planted at the foot of the rockwork, near the edge of the gravel walk, 
it has attained the height of 4 ft., and blossomed abundantly. The whole herb 
has the smell and taste of Capparis spinosa. (The British Flower-Garden, 
Feb.) 
CXLVII.? Limndnthee R. Br. in London Phil. Mag., July, 1833, new 
series, vol. iii. p. 70. and 71. 
The place of this new order is not absolutely determined. It includes the genera LimnAdnthes R. Br. 
and Floérkea Willd. 
LIMNA/NTHES 2#. Br. Marsu-FLOWER. Carnes marsh, anthos, flower; the plant’s habitat.) 


yp. 1.— 
Douglas R. Br. Douglas’s % © or ... W.Y California 1833. S m.s Hort.trans.2.s.1.409 


An interesting plant, from the elegance of its flowers and foliage. It is a 
prostrate pale-green annual, with finely divided rather succulent leaves, and 
five white striated petals with a yellow base. The flowers are of about the 
size of those of the Campanula rotundifolia, are slightly fragrant, and very 
pretty. From the habit of this plant, it seems to require a damp and shady 
situation, where it will probably remain in flower for a month or six weeks. 
It is propagated by seeds, which are produced in tolerable plenty. (Bentham, 
in Hort. Trans., 2d ser. i. 409.) 


MonorretTaLous DicoryLEDoNoUs PLANTS. 


CLXIX. Sapotez. 


556. CHRYSOPHY’LLUM. 
+4490 monopyrénum Swz. one-stoned §[—J or 30 aumr W W.Indies 1812, C rm _ Bot.mag.3303 


Figured and described from a tree which grows in the neighbourhood of 
Funchal, Madeira. This tree forms rather an elegant evergreen one, about 
30 ft. high, and with a trunk not exceeding 1 ft. m diameter. All parts of the 
tree are, while young, milky, as is shown when they are cut or broken. The 
leaves (oval) are smooth and shining above; beneath beautifully satiny, with 
pale rust-coloured close-pressed silky hairs. The leaves, before they fall, turn 
to a beautiful deep rich red, variously marbled or mottled with yellow or 
white. .... Flowers very small, scentless. ... Fruit a shining purplish black 
ovato-oblong drupe, about 13 in. long and half an inch broad; the drupes are 
always produced in great abundance; and are eatable, but not esteemed. 
(Bot. Mag., Feb.) In the London Horticultural Society’s collection at 
Chiswick, a shrub of this species is trained over the interior face of the back 
wall of one of the green-houses: the plant’s leaves, especially their rusty 
satiny surface, are most beautiful objects. 

CLXXXVI. Composite. 


2340a. PERICA’LLIS D. Don. (Perikallés, very pretty; radial ligule beautiful.) 19.2. Sp. 8.— 
Tussilaginis D. Don. Coltsfoot-/fd. ~ .Ajor 1 w.sp Li Teneriffe 1829. Ss. Sw.fl.gar.2.s.228 
Cineraria Tussilaginis Herit., Hooker in Bot. Mag. 3215. ; Senécio Tussilaginis Lind/. in Bot. Reg. 

1550. Mr. D. Don has, in the place cited, investigated the structure and affinities of this plant; 
and deems it a form of a distinct and natural genus, which he has characterised, and named 
Pericallis. To it he would refer this plant, and Cineraria cruénta, aurita, lactea, lanata, multi- 
fldra, populifdlia, and malvefdlia. ‘The genus Pericallis has, he has remarked, the habit of 
Tussilago, the involucrum of Othénna, and the corolla of Senécio. 

Pericallis Tussilaginis D. Don is an ornamental and desirable plant. See 
IX. 106. Mr. Don deems it perennial if kept in agreen-house. (Brit. Flow. 
Gard., Feb.) 

22538a. KENTROPHY’LLUM Neck. (Kentron, a spine, phyllon, a leaf; leaves very spiny.) 19. 1. 

+20440 arborescens Hook. shrubby %\_Jor 6 aun Y Spain 1731. Cs.p Bot. mag. 3302 

Onobroma arboréscens Spr., Carthamus arborescens L. 

This singular and not unornamental plant “ has stood out of doors, in the 
Dublin College Botanic Garden, for the last two winters, in a sheltered bor- 
der, flowering freely in autumn, and throwing out many side-shoots from its 

bb) 
woody stem. Both flowers and leaves have an agreeable musky smell.” (J/r. 


J.T, Mackay.) “ Its lively yellow [heads of] flowers, nestled among the 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 175 


bright green foliage, were in perfection to the very end of November, when 
our figure was taken.” (Dr. Hooker, in Bot. Mag., Feb.) 


2323, HELICHRYSUM 20992 bracteatum. 
Qinvolicro 4lbido whitish-involucred © or 3 jl.o Y Camb. bot. gard. 1833? S co 


A living plant or plants of this remarkable variety was growing, in 1833, in 
the Cambridge Botanic Garden ; whence derived, and when, I either omitted 
to ascertain or have forgotten. — J. D. 


2337. A’/STER. 
21332 éminens W. tall-stemmed \ A or7s.0 B United States .... D co Bot. reg. 1614 
2 virgineus Nees pure whiterayedy A or 3 s.0 W.Y United States ... D co Bot. reg. 1656 
“ A. janceus H. K., A. longifdlius Lam., A. virgineus Nees Synops. Ast., 4. éminens var. virgineus 
Nees Gen. et Sp. Ast., A. albus of English gardeners.” (Bot. Reg. 1656.) 


This species is characterised by its involucrum; which consists, in all the 
varieties, of a few very narrow rather leafy spreading scales, which seem as if 
they all originated from the same circle, and have a somewhat squarrose 
appearance. The rays of some varieties are of a violet colour ; of others, light 
blue; and, in A. éminens var. virgineus, white. (Bot. Reg., March.) This last 
variety is doubtless figured from the Horticultural Society’s collection. 

CXCI. Caprifoliacee. 


892. VIBU/RNUM. : [Bot. reg. 1650 
7129a cotinifdlium D.Don Cotinus-lfd. 3 or 10 my.jn W.Pk Himalayan mountains 1830? L 1 


Common in the Himalayas, at elevations of from 5000 ft. to 7000 ft., in 30° 
N. lat. In Britain it proves tolerably hardy. It much resembles V. Lantana: 
its leaves have the same wrinkled grey aspect, its branches the same mode of 
leafing and budding, and its fruit a very similar form; but the flowers are 
much larger, more coloured with pik, and neither flat nor slightly bell-shaped, 
but of a distinct obconical figure. (Bot. Reg., Feb.) 

CXCV. Asclepiddez. 


778. CEROPE‘GIA. (Kéropégion, a lampstand or candelabrum ; resemblance borne by the 
flowers as disposed in umbels.) 
+6213a@ Liishz? Grah. My. Lush’s % _¢ (A) cu ... o G.P E. Indies 1833. O p.l Bot. mag. 3300 
It_has great affinity with C. acuminata Roz., especially in the structure of the flowers. The leaves 
of C. Liishz are narrow, thick, fleshy, veinless ; those of C. acuminata, broader, not fleshy, and 
have lateral veins which emanate from the midrib. 


C. Lush is not showy, but is graceful. ‘“ Many of the ceropegias are 
possessed of considerable beauty, and are highly ornamental to the bushy 
and uncultivated places in which they grow. They are, too, esculent; and are 
used, either raw or stewed, in curries by the natives. Of one species, C. bul- 
bosa, the root resembles a small turnip, no less (according to Dr. Roxburgh) 
in appearance than in flavour; and its leaves taste like purslane.” (Bot. 
iMag., Feb.) 

At the foot of p. 737. in Vol. IX. it is stated, that, at a show, on June 26. 
1833, of the Norwich Horticultural Society, 

* Ceropégia stapelieférmis, a curious little plant, raised by Mr. Hitchen, and now flowered for the 
first time, was exhibited by him, and received the large silver medal.” Is this an undescribed 
species? It probably is. 

Hoya carnosa will emit Roots into the Mortar of Walls, which collect there the 
Means of supporting the Plant. — In Sept. 1833, Mr. Shepherd, sen., the 
venerable and respected curator of the Liverpool Botanic Garden, showed me, 
in a stove there, a plant of Héya carnoésa in full bloom growing from inter- 
stices of the wall, into which it had established its roots ; the part of the plant 
which intervened this point of attachment and that of the pot in which the plant 
had originally grown had died away. I have a plant which has rooted firmly 
into a wall in a green-house here, perhaps to follow the course of the plant at 
Liverpool. — N. S. Hodson. Botanic Garden, Bury St. Edmunds, Jan. 1834. 

CXCIX. Convolvulacee. 


491. IPOMG:*A. [Bot. mag. 3297 
rtibro-cerilea Hook. reddish-blue-corollaed %? #[Ajspl. 8? sn B.R Mexico 1833? S p.l 


“ A twining smooth plant, with herbaceous branches. Leaves heart-shaped, 
acuminate. Peduncles axillary, bearmg from three to four flowers. Corolla, 
in bud, white, with the limb of a rich lake red ; which, when the corolla is fully 
expanded, becomes of a fine purplish blue..... There are, perhaps, few, if 


176 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


any [of the species of Ipomce‘a in our collections], that can equal, in the 
beauty of the flowers, I. ribro-czertilea: for the opportunity of figuring which 
we are indebted to John Allcard, Esq., of Stratford Green, Essex ; in whose 
stove, and that of his neighbour, Miss Loxley, plants have been in flower the 
[? which] last two months. The seeds from which they have arisen were col- 
lected in the province of Guanaxuato, in Mexico, by Mr. Samuel Richardson, 
an officer in the Anglo-Mexican mining association ; who Pee them to 
J. D. Powles, Esq., of Stamford Hill, who has liberally distributed them.” 
(Bot. Mag., Feb.) 
CCXI. Scrophularinee. 


65. CALCEOLA‘RIA 27994 arachniidea. [Sw. fl. gar.2.s.227 
var. refailgens D. Don refulgent-corvollaed ye Aj or 1jn.s BtRu.,R Eng.hyb. 1833? D rlt 
Raised by Mr. Gillen (gardener to Mr. M‘Intosh, at the East India Docks), from seeds which had 

been cross-impregnated between two of the numerous varieties originated between C. arach- 
noéidea and C. corymbosa. (Brit. Flower-Garden.) 


Flowers cymose. Corolla of a bright rufous red, the upper lip very short ; 
lower one large, inflated, nearly round..... Mr. Gillen sent us specimens of 
several others, equally beautiful, which he had raised in the same way. (Brit. 
Flower-Garden, Feb.) 

CCXIII. Soldnee. 


3474. NIEREMBE’RGIA. ; ead 
filicatlis Lindl. thread-like-sstemmed ye .Alor1my Li Mexico? 1833. Cp Bot. reg. 1649 


A newly introduced species. Mr. Tate of the Sloane Square Nursery com- 
municated the specimen figured. In Britain “it is a pretty green-house 
perennial, requiring to be kept in an airy place; and may be easily multiplied 
by cuttings.” It differs from N. gracilis in being generally glabrous, not 
pubescent ; in its corolla being of a lilac, not a grey, colour ; “ the tube of its 
corolla is also shorter; and its stamens covered with glandular hairs.” Ac- 
cording to the picture, the plant is a very pleasing one in its slender herbage, 
garnished with numerous flowers, whose red-lilac corollas are 1 in. across, 
and have in their centre, at the throat of the tube, a conspicuous yellow spot. 
The segments of the stigma are apposed to the anthers in a remarkable man- 
ner. (Bot. Reg., Feb.) 

CCXIV. Acanthacee. 


58a. BELOPE’/RONE Nees. (Belos, a arrow, perone, a strap or band ; connectivum arrow-shaped.) 
i § 


. Pp. d.— 
oblongata Nees oblong-Zfd. #@(Cjor3s Ro.P Brazil 1832, C pl Bot. reg. 1657 


Belopérone Nees von Esenbeck, in Wallich Pl. As. Rar. 3. 102., Justicéa oblongata Lk. & Otto. [The 
figure of Dr. Hooker’s Justicia noddsa, in Bot. Mag. t. 2913., exhibits a plant apparently dis- 
tinct; and Dr. Hooker speaks of them as distinct : the synonyme applied to No. 27986. in Hort. 
Brit. seems, therefore, wrongly placed. J 


A pretty species, of, according to the figure, a free full habit, copiously clad 
in willow-like leaves ; and adorned at the tips of its branches with axillary 
spikes of flowers, whose corolla is 1}in. long, and of a rosy purple colour. 
It is “ easily cultivated, and may be easily multiplied by cuttings. The draw- 
ing was made in September, 1833, in the nursery of Mr. Knight, Chelsea.” 
(Bot. Reg., March.) 

CCXX. Verbenacee. 


1745. ZAPPA*‘NTJA (rather than Zapania, as in Hort. Brit.) 15624 nodifldra (knotted-inflor.). 
rosea D. Don  rosy-corollaed  ‘¥¢ Aj pr 3 jl Pk Chile 1832. Dp. Sw.fl.gar.2.s.225 


A pretty little perennial plant for cultivating in a pot or upon rockwork. 
Mr. Knight, Chelsea, possesses it. Its creeping leaf-clad shoots or branches 
emit roots very readily ; and they form a miniature tuft of verdant herbage, 
from which numerous flower-stems arise ; which, with their branches, are ter- 
minated by little dense heads of small flowers, with rosy or pink corollas, 
marked with a yellow spot. “ It is nearly if not quite hardy.” (The British 
Flower-Garden, Feb.) 

CCXXI. Labiaie. 


74. MONA/RDA 618 fistuldsa, [Bot. mag. 3310 
fldre maculato Hook. spotted-lipped Y A or3su  Pa.RoSpot New Orleans _ 1832. D co 
M. menthefoléa Graham, in Bot. Mag. 2958, 


Leaves ovate, acuminate. Heads of flowers rather. large. Corolla about 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 177 


lin. long, pale rose-coloured; the upper side of the lower lip spotted with 
deep purple. Like every Monarda, ornamental. It is in the collection of the 
Glasgow Botanic Garden. (Bot. Mag., March.) Westringia Dampieri ( Bot. 
Mag., 3308.) and cinérea (Bot. Mag., 3307.) are figured in the Bot. Mag. for 
March, and-from the Kew collection. Both are pretty in their rosemary-like 
leaves, and white corollas sprinkled with little rosy spots. These species had 
flowered in October. A habit of flowering so late in the year must increase 
their interest in the green-house. 

CCXXVIII. Conifere. Several species of Pinus, likely to prove valuable 
additions to our stock of timber trees, have been raised in the garden of the 
Horticultural Society, from seeds received from Mr. Douglas, who has dis- 
tinguished them by the names Sabinidna, monticola, amabilis, ndbilis, grandis, 
insignis, and Menzicsi. The living plants are yet too young to be eligible for 
botanical description. (Bentham, in Hort. Trans., 2d ser. i. 404.) 


MonocoryLeponous PLants. 


CCXXXIV. Bromeliacee. 

957. BILLBE’RGJ4. [Bot. mag. 3304 
purpireo-7dsea Hook. purple-petaled rosy-sepaied ¢(Al)or2n Ro.P Brazil 1831. Sk rm 

It will, perhaps, yield in beauty to but few of its tribe. The leaves are 
broad, 14 ft. long, edged with strong prickles. The scapes are from one to 
three in number, longer than the leaves, of a reddish purple colour. The 
flowers are arranged in a compound spike, from 8 in. to 10in. long; and, 
although they are not fndividually large, they are numerous : and, in their 
number, rosy sepals, and purple petals, constitute an ornamental species. It 
was introduced by Mrs. Arnold Harrison ; and has flowered, in the Liverpool 
Botanic Garden, in 1832, 1833. (Bot. Mag., March.) 

CCXL. Orchidee. The Cape Species of Orchideous Plants. —We presume 
that it is impracticable to cultivate them permanently in Britain, by any means 
hitherto discovered; for the roots, although, when first imported, they flower, 
afterwards disappear. They should be planted in sandy loam, and kept in as 
light a green-house as possible: for it is probable that the reason of their dis- 
appearing is the want of light during their growing season in this country. 
(Bot. Reg., March, t. 1653.) 

2484. BARTHOLI'NA. 
422512 pectinata R. Br. pectinated-dipped %Ajel Z au Pa.V C.G.H. 1787. O-s.1 Bot. reg. 1653 

Of great interest in its kidney-shaped leaf, in its flower’s lip cut into long 
linear segments resembling the teeth of a comb, its rarity, and the great diffi- 
culty of cultivating it in this country. It is figured from the collection of 
Messrs. Rollisson, nurserymen, Tooting. (Bot. Reg., March.) 


2540, ONCY DIUM. 
22690a ciliatum Lindl. fringed-lipped fe ori n Y.R_ Brazil 1818. Dpr.w Bot. reg. 1660 


A pretty little species, closely allied to O. barbatum. The picture exhibits 
four flowers in a raceme, which terminates the unbranched short slender 
scape. The flowers vary in colour: sometimes being yellow spotted with 
red, and sometimes of a brownish orange. Mr. Knight, nurseryman, Chelsea ; 
Sir C. Lemon, Carclew, Cornwall; and the London Horticultural Society 
possess plants of this species. (Bot. Reg., March.) Many of the orchideous 
epiphytes are found to succeed if tied to short pieces of branches of trees with 
rugged bark: none succeed better on this plan than the different species of 
Oncidium. (Pot. Reg., Feb.) 

2549. ORNITHY’DIUM. : 

album Hook. white-perianthed €{(Aloriln W. Trinidad 1833. Dpx.w Bot. mag. 3306 

Dr. Hooker finds great difficulty in referring this plant to its proper genus, 

Sent from Trinidad, by Mr. David Lockhart, along with a very accurate 
drawing by Mr. J. Lockhart, to the Glasgow Botanic Garden, where it 
flowered in Noy. 1833. Leaves linear, not very narrow. Flowers rather large, 
white. (Bot. Mag., March.) 

Vou. X.— No. 49. MAN 


178 Floricultural and Botanical Notices. 


2571. CALA’/NTHE. | 
densifldra Lindl. “dense-racemed ye (Alor? 0 Y Sylhet 1832? D1lt Bot. reg. 1646 


* A terrestrial species. It grows very freely in loam and decayed vegetable 
matter, in a damp stove. The leaves of ©. densiflora, as those of the other 
species, are pleasing objects ; its flowers, which are not large, are disposed in 
a dense raceme: they are pendulous in some degree. W. W. Salmon, Esq. 
[? where resident], and Messrs. Loddiges possess plants of C. densiflora. 
(Bot. Reg., Feb.) 


9554. EPIDE’/NDRUM. 
422747 noctarnum L. night-fragrant & (Ajor 1 on Y.W W.Indies 1816. D p.r.w Bot. mag. 3298 


The flowers, though scentless during the day, yield at night, like the greenish or 
yellowish white flowers of many other species of plants, a very powerful odour. 
Linnzus compares that of the flower of E. noctarnum to that of the flowers 
of Lilium candidum L. Dr. Hooker remarks, that, “ to us, even by day, there 
is a faint smell resembling cucumber.” Messrs. Loddiges had, and may still 
have, E. noctirnum: it is in the Liverpool and Glasgow Botanic Gardens. 
( Bot. Mag., Feb.) 

CCXLILII. Musacee. 


745, HELICO'NIA. 
pulverulénta Lind/. dusted-leafed y [A] or 2 jl G.S S, America? 1830? Dp. Bot. reg. 1648 


A species of not large proportions, but one possessed of considerable 
beauty. “ It is impossible to imagine any thing more delicate than the blue 
[pulverulent] bloom which thickly covers the underside of the leaves [these 
have, too, a narrow edging of red]; or more brilliant than the vivid scarlet of 
the flower-leaves or spathes, among which nestle, as it were, a few bright- 
green flowers.” (Bot. Reg., Feb.) 

CCXLVII. Asphodelee. 


$283. TRITELED‘A Hook. (Treis, three, ¢eleies, perfect; as the plant produces three stamens with 
fertile anthers, the other three are barren.) Sp. 2.— 
28010a laxa Benth. lax-umbelled § _A| or 13 jl.au Dp.B California 1832? Op.1 Hort. trans.2.s,1.pl.15.£.2 


A very handsome plant. Its flowers are about the size of those of Brodiz‘a 
grandiflora, and of the same deep blue colour. They grow in a lax umbel; 
but, notwithstanding the length of their stalks, stand nearly erect : the scape 
is, however, apt to be procumbent if not supported. T. laxa seeds freely, and 
will probably soon be rendered common. ( Bentham, in Hort. Trans., 2d ser. 1. 
413.) For a suggestion on culture, see under Cyclobothra in the next page. 

CCLI. Lilidcee. 


3339. CALOCHO’RTUS. The order Liliacez includes numerous piants ef distinguished beauty ; 
but, surely, few among them surpass, in elegance of habit and beauty of petal, the Calochérti. 
Of the genus Calochortus, three species are registered in p. 476. of Hort. Brit. ; namely, nitidus, 
macrocarpus, and élegans. Of these, élegans is now referred to the genus Cyclobéthra: see 
below. ‘Thus, of Calochértus there are but two species enrolled in Hort. Brit. A third species, 
C. luteus, is described in this Magazine (IX. 240.) ; and now the following have to be added. The 
whole, from first to last, have, we believe, been introduced by Mr. David Douglas. 


(Hort. trans. 2. s. 1. pl. 15. f. 1 

28186a spléndens Dow. splendid-corollaed %& _AJ spl 1} au.s Li California 1832? O s.p 

This elegant species has very much the appearance of C. macrocarpus. It 

is, perhaps, less branched ; and the leaves are shorter. The petals are paler- 

coloured, and have a smali dark spot at their base. The bulbs of it, trans- 

mitted by Mr, Douglas, have grown freely; and many have already been 

distributed. (Bentham, in Hort. Trans., 2d ser. i. 411.) 

[ Hort. trans. 2. s, 1. pt. 15. f.3 

281865 venustus Doz. handsome-corollaed % _AJ spl au.s W.spot California 1832? O s.p 

C. ventstus resembles C. macrocarpus in the size of the flowers. It dif- 

fers from both macrocarpus and spléndens in several botanical points; and 

“by the colour of the petals, which is a pure white, with the lower part 

marked in streaks of deep red on a yellow ground; and with a spot near the 

extremity of each petal, much resembling a drop of blood. C. venistus, like 

C. spléndens, is a very handsome species, and has been raised in a sufficient 
quantity for distribution. (Bentham, in Hort. Trans., 2d ser. i. 4:12.) 


Retrospective Criticism. 179 


3337 CYCLOBO/THRA. Of this genus, which is closely allied to Calochdértus, two species are 
registered in p. 475. of Hort. Brit. ; namely, C. purptrea and C. barbata. To these the species 
hitherto calied Calochértus élegans, and the following species introduced by Mr. Douglas, are 
now to be added : — Gilore trans. 2. s. 1. pl. 14. f. 1 

pulchella Benth. pretty-jlwd. ¥ A or 1l aus Y California 1852? O pl 

The stem is about 1 ft. high, much branched; each branch terminated with 
an umbel of two or three pendulous flowers issuing from the base of a green 
leaflike bract, longer than the peduncle. The leaves are narrow, linear 
lanceolate, 3 in. to 5in. long, placed at the ramifications of the stem and 
branches. The sepals are of a greenish hue, and ovate lanceolate form; the 
petals longer, much broader, of a bright yellow colour, and bordered with a. 
beautiful but delicate fringe. C. pulchélla produces seeds in great abundance, 
and will probably become as common as a fritillary. (Bentham, in Hort. 
Trans., 2d ser, 1. 413.) 

alba Benth. white-petaled %§ A orlau.s W California 1832? Op Hort.trans.2.s.1.pl.14.£3 


C. alba is closely allied to C. pulchélla ; but the flowers are larger, the petals 
both longer and broader,*of a whitish colour, and not fringed at the margin. 
(Bentham, in Hort. Trans., 2d ser. i. 413.) 

All the species of Calochértus, Cyclobothra, and Triteleia are probably 
hardy; they seem only to require a shady situation, anda warm and light soil 
which is effectually protected from wet in winter. But, as they are all at 
present extremely rare, they have hitherto been taken up as soon as their 
leaves had died, and kept dry until the roots had begun again to shoot. 
(Bentham, in Hort. Trans., 2d ser. i. 4:14.) 


Art. V. Retrospective Criticism. 


CoRRECTIONS.— Mr. Rangecroft. In IX. 675., for “ Mr. Haycroft,” read 
* Mr. Rangecroft.” This gentleman, now long since dead, when gardener to 
the late Duke of Portland, at Bulstrode, was a most successful cultivator of 
exotic plants. He was the first who induced Nelimbium speciosum, Mag- 
noléa purpurea, and, our informant, Mr. Main, believes, Ixora: coccinea, to 
flower in Britain. Under his culture, too, those rarely flowering plants, Port- 
landea grandiflora and Catesbze‘a spinosa flowered frequently. In X. p. 10. 
line 6. from the bottom, for “ bridges,” read “ hedges.” 

The Gardener's Magazine as a monthly Publication.—1 must think your 
Magazine would meet with more extensive circulation if you would publish it 
monthly, at 1s. 6d. or 2s. Two months is too long a time from one feeding of 
the mind till the next. Although coarse-feeding animals thrive best with 
feasting and fasting; still man is not so gross in his mental appetite, but that 
he could digest and turn to more use a little monthly, than he can a large dose, 
if he be crammed with it only every alternate month.— H. T. Bury St. Ed- 
munds, Dec. 3. 1833. 

Several correspondents having expressed a similar opinion, we have de- 
termined on complying with their request, and on publishing the Magazine 
in future monthly, at 1s. 6d. — Cond. 

On the fraudulent Practices of Gardening Authors. (VIL. 289. TX. 116.492.) 
—We have received a long letter from “ A Constant Reader,” full of severe 
criticism on “ An Enemy to Deceit.” It would occupy three of our pages, 
and would be of very little interest to any but the parties concerned. The 
object of “ A Constant Reader” is to defend the late Mr. Stewart of Valley- 
field, for haying published a paper, stating that he grew his pines without 
moist bottom heat; and afterwards, when he employed tan for that purpose, 
for not publishing a notice of the inefficiency of the mode which he had pre- 
viously recommended to the public (VIII. 289. IX. 116.) Our opinion is, 
that “ An Enemy to Deceit” did quite right in exposing the discrepancy be- 
tween Mr. Stewart’s paper and his subsequent practice; and we only regret 
that the exposure did not take place in Mr. Stewart’s lifetime. — Cond. : 

Heating by Hot Water at Munich. — With reference to your complaint 
(VIII. 67.) of my not having done justice to the Gardener’s Magazine, 

N 2 


180 Retrospective Criticism. 


I am sorry to have unintentionally given you offence; but, in truth, if I had 
acknowledged my obligations to specific works, I must have quoted, not only 
your Magazine, but also the Zransactions of the Horticultural Society, and 
other journals, which, for brevity’s sake, I mcluded under the appellation of 
English publications. I confess, however, that none of these works furnished 
me with so many explanations and observations relating to the before-named 
object as your valuable Gardener’s Magazine; for the communication of 
which, in particular, I therefore return you my warmest thanks. Since I sent 
you my tract, [have made a much more extensive application of hot water, as 
a method of heating, in the large green-house at Nymphenburg, and with 
equal success. I refer for your opinion to a brief account which I have given 
ot it in the Landwirthschaftlichen Wochenblatte for 1832, No. 33., together 
with the illustrating engravings. [We shall translate the article, and give it, 
accompanied by engravings, ina future Number.] With respect to the plan of 
the boiler, the account may be of some interest to the English reader, as I do 
not remember to have seen one of similar form mentioned, either in your 
Magazine or in any other English journal. — Schell, Munich. July, 1833. 

Mr. Anderson’s Paper on the Drooping Ash, published in the Berlin Horticultural 
Transactions, and translated by us in the Gardener's Magazine. (1X. 596.) 
— Mr. Anderson, on reading his paper re-Englished by us, and finding it did 
not convey the sentiments contained in his original communication sent to 
Berlin, naturally enough concluded that we had mistranslated his paper, in 
transferring it from the Berlin Transactions to our pages. In this, however, he 
was decidedly mistaken; and the error must have arisen in the translation of 
his original paper from the English into German. In confirmation of this 
view, we give the following extract from vol. vi. of the Berlin Transactions, 
p- 313., in which it will be seen that M. Borchmeyer is contending against 
the supposed opinion of Mr. Anderson, that the weepmg ash is a distinct 
‘species: — “ M. Borchmeyer of Darfeld communicated his experience 
respecting the drooping ash, and more particularly relating to the opmion of 
M. Fintelmann, that the drooping ash sheuld be considered a different species 
from the common ash, as the plants raised from its seeds retain the property 
of drooping. This opinion M. Fintelmann communicated to the Society at a 
meeting held December 4.1825. Against this, M. Borchmeyer stated, at a 
meeting held August 9. 1829, that, amongst 1000 seedlings, raised from seeds 
produced by the drooping ash, some of whieh were from 6 ft. to 7 ft. high, not 
‘one showed the least inclination to droop, nor any other mark by which it 
could be distinguished from the common ash. 

The Variegated Acer (A. Pseudo-Platanus) and the Purple Beech. M. 
Borchmeyer also stated his experience respecting these trees; which is, that a 
few seedlings out of a great many resemble the parents, while the rest assume 
the common form. These two statements, made from experience, show the 
correctness of the prevalent idea that the varieties mentioned of the ash, acer, 
and beech have no claim to be considered species; and this is the opinion 
which Mr. Anderson maintained in his paper. — Cond. 

Mr. Munro’s Method of training the Oak, &c., for Timber for Naval Pur- 
poses. (p. 76.) — We have received a long reply to Mr. Munro, but we really 
do not think we could publish it with sufficient profit to our readers. We 
will print the essence of it, however, if the writer will bring it into a quarter 
of a page. — Id. 

‘Culture of Tulips and Ranunculuses.— Sir, In the preface to the fifth edition 
of your valuable Encyclopedia of Gardening you earnestly request the assist- 
tance of every reader willing to correct an error or supply a deficiency ; you 
will, therefore, I trust, pardon thé following details of part of the culture of 
tulips and ranunculuses. : 

_- As to tulips, I observe that you recommend rotten dung and mould, about a 

foot thick, and not above two cr three inches from the base of the bulbs. The 
florists around me avoid dung in any shape or modification ; for bulbs, planted 
even in a frcsh soil, quite free from dung, are sure the first year to have far too 


Queries and Answers. 181 


much colour, from the soil being too rich. The same bed will last for three 
plantings, that is, three years, with no more than trenching it each year two 
spades deep; the fourth year, half the mould may be replaced by fresh mould, 
but free from any sort of dung. The bed being planted is to be sheltered 
from rains for about a fortnight; and, when the bulbs have shot out leaves 
above ground, it should be defended by a netting spread upon hoops, which 
must be raised as the tulips get higher, and the sides and ends protected by a 
fence of netting or wirework. This is absolutely necessary, on account of the 
scratching of dogs and cats, which otherwise would destroy many blooms. 

With respect to the Ranunculus Beds, 1 observe you recommend placing 
rotten dung at five inches below the surface; but the florists here say nine, 
certainly not less than eight inches ; and that, if the dung were placed nearer, it 
would cause the flowers to become blighted. The bed, after it is made, is, for 
a week before planting it, covered with matting, or canvass, or hoops; but on 
fine days it is uncovered, and raked into ridges to dry: for the ground at this 
season (February) has much more moisture than is required to make a ranun- 
culus root swell and vegetate; and if this precaution were omitted, the pro- 
bable result would be the rotting of many roots. In planting, the roots are 
inserted with the thumb and forefinger, about an inch over the crowns, and the 
bed is again protected for about three days, till its surface gets settled. As to 
the time of planting; roots planted in November are undoubtedly best for 
increase and strength, but February is the month for planting for a young 
show. Hereabouts there is no planting before the 14th; and, this year, some 
of the best growers did not plant till the 24th of the month. As soon as the 
shelter of mats or canvass is taken away, the bed should be covered by 
netting supported on hoops, which should continue till the awnings for pro- 
tecting the bloom is put up. Ranunculus seed, sown in autumn (say early 
im November), and effectually protected from frost and wet, will produce 
stronger plants, and more likely to flower the second year, than spring-sown 
seed; although it is advisable to save some seed for spring sowing. I should 
have observed before, that a ranunculus bed will last two years, with only 
stirring the second year; observing not to go down to the dung. Rotten 
sheep dung, the shoveling of a sheep pen, is a good substitute for rotten 
cow dung, which frequently cannot be got. 

Heartsease (Viola tricolor) is now certainly become a florist’s flower. I 
hope to see, in the edition of the Encyclopedia of Gardening now publishing, 
some instructions for its culture. [See VIII. 573., and Encyclopedia of Gar- 
dening, ed. 1834, art. Viola, inthe General Index.] I remain, sir, yours, &c. — 
A Florist anda Reader. Wallingford, Feb. 26, 1834. 


Art. VI. Queries and Answers. 


CoBBETT’S Gardening.—Sir, I should like much to see one or more of your’ 
correspondents, who are good practical kitchen-gardeners, take up the subject 
of Cobbett’s gardening, in order that its merits may be fully discussed; and to 
show how far his system may be considered as applicable to, and available for, 
the purposes of gentlemen’s gardeners. I have reason to believe that Mr. 
Cobbett’s book has been extensively influential among the higher orders of 
society ; and that in some instances, and perhaps not a few, it has been the 
means of raising disputes between gardeners and their employers. Whatever 
merits the book may be possessed of, it will lose nothing by a fair and candid 
enquiry, and its faults, whatever they may be, will not be increased. — An Ad- 
nuirer of good Gardening. Feb. 1834. 

Impressions of the Leaves of Plants. (1X. 629.719.) — Complete directions for . 
this purpose will be found in Murray’s Book of General Knowledge, p. 566. 
This work was published in 1823. — J. G. 

Internal Temperature of the Stems of Plants. — Sir, I have a remark or two 
to offer, which, although they may convey no information, may, if respondents 

N3 


182 Queries and Answers. 


please, excite some. Mr. Gordon, in his highly ingenious paper, in the Ma- 
gazine of Natural History, V.121., remarks that plants, as well as animals, 
have the faculty of preserving a certain degree of temperature, be that of the 
medium in which they are placed what it may. “ For instance,” he remarks 
that “,the temperature of the interior of the stem of a tree will seldom sink 
below 56°, although that of the atmosphere be not higher than 20°.” Mr. 
_ Gordon imputes this effect, “in a great measure, to various chemical processes 

going on within their different organs; yet,” he remarks, “it is very clear 
that it must arise also from other causes; for it continues to be generated, 
though in a less degree, even in winter, when every chemical action within the 
plant is almost entirely suspended.”’ On this curious subject I regret that I 
have no information to communicate; it is Information I seek; and, to the 
end of obtaining it, I would, with your permission, place under Mr. Gordon’s 
observation the following extract from Jameson’s Philosophical Journal for 
June, 1828, p. 204. :— “ Schutzer and Halder inserted thermometers into the 
stems of trees, so deep that the bulb reached the centre of the tree. The 
same was done into a dead stem. From the results of these experiments, 
vegetables appear to retain a certain medium temperature, which cannot, how- 
ever, be considered as originating from heat evolved by the functions of the 
plant, as the dead stem afforded the same temperature as the living; but can 
be satisfactorily explained by a reference to the bad conducting power of the 
vegetable fibre and the wood, by which the temperature of the surrounding 
aerial strata penetrates but slowly into the interior of the plant.” To the 
identity of temperature in the quick and the dead, I have one empirical fact 
to oppose, taught me some years since by a nurseryman of much arboricul- 
tural experience, the excellent Mr. Samuel Curtis of the Glazenwood Nursery. 
It is, that a dead branch is invariably warmer than a live one; and that the 
difference is, to a practised hand, so perceptible, that he would (in summer 
only, I believe, though) engage to pass blindfold through the branches of 2 
tree, and distinguish, by the difference in temperature alone, every dead 
branch from the living ones. He instanced this to me at the time by several 
examples ; and I really imagined I could perceive a difference. “ It stands to 
reason,’ he remarked, “ that a bundle of tubes, as in the living branch, 
through which watery juices are perpetually circulating, should be cooler than 
a dead branch, in which the tubes are all destitute of watery juices.” — An 
Asker. May, 1832. 

Destroying Insects by Decoctions of Chamomile Flowers. — In the frish Gar- 
dener’s Magazine it is said, not only that decoctions, or the Jeaves dried and 
powdered, of the common chamomile (A’nthemis nobilis) will destroy insects, 
but that “ nothing contributes so much to the health of a garden as a number 
of chamomile plants dispersed through it. No green-house or hot-house should 
be without chamomile ina green or in a dried state; either the stalks or flowers 
will answer. It is a singular fact, that if a plant is drooping and apparently 
dying, in nine cases out of ten, it will recover, if you place a plant of chamo- 
mile near it.” Have any of your readers tried the chamomile in any way as a 
remedy for insects in England ? — John Brown. Westerham, Kent, Feb. 1834. 

The relative Degrees of Effect on Vegetation of several Sorts of Manure. 
(1X. 628.) —In making a few remarks, in the way of answers to these 
queries, I shall arrange the manures included in the list referred to according 
as they appear to me to deserve precedence by their effects on vegetation, 
placing the most powerful or active first, and confining my remarks to those 
sorts of which experience enables me to speak with some degree of con- 
fidence. 

1. “ Night Soil not dry.’ This, although the most disgusting of the ordi- 
nary manures, is, perhaps, the most powerful. It is not only active, but more 
permanent in its effects than some others of the active manures. When de- 
siccated, or rendered dry, it is less powerful in its active qualities; these being 
partly neutralised by the lime used in drying it. In this shape, however, it is 
less repulsive in its application, and as permanent in its effects. 


Queries and Answers. 183 


2. “ Pigeon or Poultry Dung” forms a very powerful manure in raising 
excellent crops of turnips in the fields ; but its effects will not reach through 
an ordinary farm rotation. 

3. “ Vetches, §c., ploughed in.” Under this article may be included all 
sorts of green manure. Amongst the most active plants employed as manure, 
I have found the [wild species of the genus] Sinapis, ploughed in fresh in the 
bottom of turnip drills, at the rate of twenty tons per acre. The produce 
brought by auction 12/., while the rest of the field, manured with twenty tons 
of farm-yard dung, brought only from 9/. to 10/. per acre. Other weeds, such 
as nettles, thistles, ragwort, &c., produce crops superior to farm-yard dung. 
Potato stems, fresh ploughed in, on clover lea for wheat, I have found to pro- 
duce crops exceeding by two bolls per acre in quantity, with more propor- 
tionate weight of straw, the other parts of the same field manured with 
farm-yard dung, but otherwise under the same circumstances. The stems 
from three acres of good potatoes will manure an acre for wheat to much 
better purpose than fifteen tons of farm-yard dung, the usual quantity allowed 
in that part of the rotation; clover after wheat being the crop which generally 
precedes fallow. Under the head of “ green manure,’ I may mention an 
experiment I this year made with pea-straw converted into dung without 
the aid of cattle. Having something of that sort on hand, about the middle 
of last May, and being in want of some loads of manure to finish a potato 
field, I had the peas threshed at the mill, and the straw and chaff carried to 
the side of the potato field, and made up like a large hot-bed, giving each layer 
of straw an ample watering. Fermentation soon commenced; and, by the fifth 
day, the mass was so far decomposed as to be easily filled into the carts. 
The effluvium in filling was almost intolerable. It was in this state laid in the 
bottom of the drills; the sets of potatoes were planted above, and the earth 
ploughed over the whole. Notwithstanding the dry nature of the ground, 
and the dry state of the weather in the summer months, the part of the field 
manured with decomposed pea-straw yielded a better return than where farm- 
yard dung was applied. 

4. “ Pig’s Dung.’ Ihave found it a strong manure; but I apprehend it 
contains something not favourable to vegetation, if applied to any thing like 
excess in a recent state. 

5. “ Sheep’s Dung.’ When the sheep are lodged at night in winter in a 
fold or field, and so managed as to have to waik over the ground where they 
previously lay, so as to tread in the dung with their feet in going out and in, 
the beneficial effects will be observable for three years on the poorest soils, if 
dry. Eating off turnips with sheep is followed by the same result. 

6. “ Horse Dung,” very slightly fermented, I should say, might come next 
in order for cold lands, and cow dung for hot or dry lands ; and neither the 
one nor the other is fugacious in its effects. 

7. “ Liquid Manure” (urine) is active and powerful, but the effects not 
lasting. 

8. “ Soot”? might have ranked among the first kinds of manure as to ac- 
tivity, if applied to green crops immediately before, or during the time of rain ; 
but soot, like liquid manure, is of an intoxicating quality, producing a rapid 
growth at the expense of after-crops. isles 

9. “ Bone Dust,” being now very popular, might have appeared earlier in the 
list; but, from observing a proportion of human bones, from the trenches of 
Leipsic and Waterloo, bleaching among others on the surface of turnip fields, I 
could only bring myself to make one trial before I made the discovery. Those 
farmers whose feelings allow them to hasten the process of converting the 
bones of our braye defenders into vegetable matter, may find a powerful 
auxiliary in bone dust, with little “ expense of carriage.” | 

10. “ Lime’? being merely a stimulant, I do not include it in the list ; and I find 
my limits prevent me from noticing farther the other odds and ends men- 
tioned by your correspondent. — Archibald Gorrie. Annat Gardens, Oct. 29. 
1833. 

N 4 


184 Queries and Answers. 


The Value of green Vegetables as Manure was strikingly proved by me in 
the spring of 1833. I had a trench opened of sufficient length to receive six 
sets of potatoes; under three of these sets I placed green cabbage leaves; but 
the other three had nothing but the soil. When the crop was dug up, the 
plants over the cabbage leaves yielded about double the produce of the 
others. —J. D. Parkes. Dartford Nursery, Jan. \834:. 

Artificial Lawns. — Yn answer to Mr. Thomas Woodcock, we have com- 
piled the following from the writings of Mr. Sinclair. The finest English 
lawns, we are informed by Mr. Sinclair, who had more experience, as he had 
more science and skill, in this department, than perhaps any man of his time, 
with the exception of Mr. Lawson, are composed of the following grasses,— 
Festuca duriascula, Festuca ovina, Agrostis capillaris and vulgaris, Avena 
flavéscens, Anthoxanthum odoratum, Cynostrus cristatus, Poa praténsis, 
Lolium perénne var. tenuifolium, Trifolium répens and minus. If these seeds 
be sown in April, on a soil thoroughly drained, well pulverised, and properly 
consolidated by the roller previously to sowing, they will produce a beautiful 
lawn in two months; and by frequent mowing, in the course of a year, it will 
be undistinguishable from one of old turf. — Cond. 

Variegated Plants. (p. 80.) — Sir, Your correspondent Mr. Rutger wishes 
for information as to variegated plants; how variegations are produced, and 
their uses, if any, in ornamental scenery. Being ‘far from partial to such 
plants, I am ill qualified to comply with his wishes ; but, with your permission, 
will do my best. The origin of variegation has, doubtless, been in some 
caprice of nature. Many persons attr ibute it to disease ; in which opinion I 
am inclined to concur. I have never heard of any authenticated plan by 
which variegated seedlings could be insured, nor which could induce a self- 

coloured plant to bear variegated leaves. Grafting or budding is the only 

means with which I am acquainted for perpetuating « or multiplying variegation, 
except in the case of a variegated species ; as, for stance, Avicuba japonica. 
Next, as to the use of variegations in ornamental scenery, I consider it very 
limited. When introduced into landscapes, on a large scale, they tend to 
destroy all repose, and to fritter away effect. The situation to which I think 
them best suited is the verge of a shrubbery flower-garden, where, if judi- 
ciously placed, they may harmonise with the gay tints of the flowers, and con- 
nect them with the more sombre hues of the surrounding shrubs. Variegated 
evergreens are useful in a winter garden, serving, in some measure, to com- 
pensate the eye for the deficiency of flowers during winter; and in small 
groups of shrubs on a lawn they might, if placed with judgment, be an acqui- 
sition. Most nursery catalogues furnish the names of approved variegated 
shrubs ; but by far the handsomest, in my opinion, is the golden-edged holly. 
T saw, at the Clapton Nursery, while conducted by Mr. Mackay, variegated 
sycamores, and a numerous assortment of variegated shrubs. I believe 
Mr. Mackay paid much attention to them; but, not having been lately at 
Clapton, I do not know whether Mr. Low keeps up the collection. Iam, 
Sir, yours, &c. — Calycanthus. Hastings, Feb. 1834. 

Our correspondent has evidently a painter’s eye, and we invite him to 
become a contributor on the subject of landscape-gardening; a department of 
the art which it is one of the great objects, of this Magazine fo render 
familiar to the young gardener. We are convinced that there is no other 
mode of increasing the picturesque beauty of country residences, in con- 
junction with their gardenesque improvement, than that of diffusing a taste 
for picturesque beauty, and a knowledge of the means of producing it among 
practical gardeners. The time for employi ng landscape-gardeners at high 
prices 1s, in a great measure, gone by; as is also that of employing high-priced 
architects. A taste for the beautiful in nature and art is spreading widely 
among practical men and the middle classes of society ; and we trust that in 
another generation these two classes will act reciprocally upon each other, so 
as to create a demand for beauty of every kind, and more especially in land- 
scape-gardening and architecture everywhere ; and to praduce a supply among 


Queries and Answers. 185 


practical gardeners, builders, carpenters, and masons, as extensive as the 
demand. To accelerate this important result is the great object of the Gar- 
dener’s Magazine, and also that of the Magazine of Architecture. — Cond. 

Hedges as a Barrier against Cattle. — 1 know none speedier or better than 
the Canadian poplar (P. monilifera), as it forms, in a few years, an impene- 
trable living palisade against cattle. It should be planted eighteen inches 
apart, in double rows; and, when sufficiently grown, it may headed down 
every alternate year. —J. Robertson. Kilkenny, Jan. 6. 1834: 

The Turin or Lombardy poplar (P. dilatata) is very available for enclosing 
compartments for shade or shelter in a nursery or other garden, and this at a 
cheap rate. Plants about eight feet high, placed two, or three, or four inches 
asunder in the boundary lines, give, in the same year, useful shade and shelter. 
They were thus employed in Wood’s Nursery, Huntingdon, in 1820, and pro- 
bably still are. Hedges of yew were also used for the same purpose, but these 
are of low growth. Arbor vite (I think the American) is also applicable to the 
same object ; as is proved by a hedge of it in Malcolm’s Nursery at Ken- 
sington. It doubtless grows much faster than yew.—J. D. 

A magnificent Conservatory is now erecting at Dalkeith House for the Duke of 
Buccleugh. — It has a dome 40 ft. in diameter, and, I am told, will cost more 
money than was ever before laid out for a plant-house in Scotland. The 
architect is Mr. Burns of Edinburgh; to whom, or to Mr. Macdonald, I 
would recommend you to apply for particulars. — H. B. Gogar, Jan. 1834, 

We should be much obliged to either of the gentlemen mentioned for a 
description and sketches of the house alluded to. — Cond. 

Lucombe’s new Evergreen Oak. — Sir, I do not recollect seeing Lucombe’s 
new evergreen oak noticed in any of your publications. I think it may be 
well recommended to form a part in planting for ornament. It is a fast grower, 
and assumes a handsome pyramidal appearance, considerably resembling the 
old Lucombe oak, but, I think, with smaller leaves, which retain their ver- 
dure throughout the winter. — 7. Rutger. Shortgrove, Feb. 1834. 

We should be glad to know where this oak can be purchased; and how, 
where, and when it originated ? — Cond. 

Lhe Wicken Tree.— Can any of your Lincolnshire friends inform me to 
what tree this provincial term applies ? I find it mentioned in the Gentleman’s 
Magazine. —T. Rivers, jun. Sawbridgeworth, Feb. 1834. 

This name may possibly be corrupted from quicken tree; and quicken tree, 
mountain ash, rowan tree, are three names for the Sorbus aucuparia. — J. D. 

Splitting the Roots of felled Trees. — Sir, In reference to J. B.’s question on 
splitting the roots of felled trees with gunpowder (p. 82.) I have found it to 
lessen the labour considerably, by preparing them to be split afterwards with 
wedges to the sizes wanted; and, upon the whole, I think it may be con- 
sidered aseconomical. My method was, to bore ahole, of an inch in diameter 
and about six or eight inches deep, and to fill it up one third with gunpowder ; 
and, after placing a reed filled with the powder down one side of the hole to 
reach the charge, and of sufficient length to stand up a little above the top, 
the remainder of the bole was filled up with perfectly dry sand; after which a 
small quantity of powder was placed on the top, in contact with the reed, and 
some combustible matter placed over it in such a way as, on a person firing it, 
sufficient time might be given for his escape. Another method was, to plug 
up the hole with a wooden peg, and afterwards to make a hole on one side, 
down to the powder, by drivmg down a small iron pin, or with a long gimblet 
of small bore; on either of which being removed, the hole was filled up with 
powder, and fired, as above; but, as I found filling the hole with sand to be 
equally efficacious, and more simple in its process, I finally preferred it. Iam, 
Sir, yours, &c. — T. Rutger. Shortgrove, Feb. 1834. 

Houstonia cerilea. Yn answer to R. T. (p. 83.).— Houstonia certlea, 
when grown in pots, requires to be potted in a mixture consisting of half peat, 
one fourth light loam, and one fourth sand. The pots ought not to be over 


186 Queries and Answers. 


large, and should be well drained. During summer, the plants should be 
placed out of doors, in a situation where they are shaded from the midday 
sun. They should be kept rather moist, and frequently watered lightly over 
head. In winter, they may either be placed i in a cold frame or in the green- 
house. The plants ought to be divided once or twice during every season. 
With this treatment, the plants grow freely and flower profusely. There 
- must, however, be some defect in the treatment of the Houstonia, as generally 
‘ practised, otherwise this beautiful little plant would not remain so scarce. 
When treated as a hardy border plant, it requires to be planted in a light peat 
soil, and to be kept rather moist ; it should be occasionally divided. Tt requir es 
to be narrowly observed during winter, as the frost frequently throws the 
plants out of the soil, when they ought to be immediately replaced; as a few 
hours’ sun or cutting ‘wind would completely dry up the small fibrous roots. 
Most of the plants of Housténia cerulea, which are left in the borders during 
winter, are killed from this cause, and not by the severity of the winter. — 
E.. B. March, 1834. 

Chimonanthus fragrans. — In reply to the query of your correspondent F.F. 
(1X. 630.),; I may state that I have found a Chimonanthus fragrans planted 
in a mixture of leaf mould, peat earth, and dung, thrive exceedingly well. It 
is trained against a wall of a southern aspect, and has had no protection in 
winter since it was planted, now four years ago, except some straw pegged 
round the lower part of the stem. It is at present six feet high, and extends 
eight feet in width, and is showing’ most profusely for blossom. . The snails 
were very fond of it; but by surrounding it while young by a trench of soot, 
I have succeeded in saving it from-destruction.— HL. P. Surrey, Dec. 1833. 

To preserve any Plant from Slugs or Snails, | always throw some soot in a 
circle a few inches distant from the plant; and I have never found the soot 
injure any plant when used in that way. — Id. 

Roses for Hedges. — \ see some queries on hedges in your Magazine, and in 
reply I may state that I think no plant more ornamental for hedges than the 
Rosa villosa. LThave hada hedge of this species these twenty years, about 10 ft. 
or 8 ft. high, which is a sheet of bloom every May; and throughout the 
rest of the season flowers with the Boursault, Noisettes, and other hybrid 

"China roses, which are budded on it.—J. Robertson. Kilkenny, January 6. 
1834. 

A small Caterpillar which attacks Rose Bushes. — Sir, I shall be much obliged 
to you if you will inform me, through the medium of your Magazine, of any 
method of destroying a small caterpillar, which has for the last three summers 
infested the rose bushes in my garden. It makes its appearance early in June ; 
it is small, about as long as my nail, and of a yellowish-green colour; it eats 
away the under side of the green leaf, causing the upper side to turn brown, 
and appear as if it were scorched with fire ; there eby disfiguring the plant ex- 
ceedingly, and injuring the bloom. I take great delight in my garden; and, 
having been much annoyed at this continual depredation, my gardener has 
tried every means we can think of to get rid of it: such as putting soot in the 
ground, strewing the leaves with brimstone, &e., but without effect. Can 
you, or any of your correspondents, help us to attain our object? Lam, Sir, 
yours, &c. — Frances Barnard. Gosfield Hall, Essex, Feb. 15. 1834. 

Hand-picking is one of the most effectual modes; but, unfortunately, it 
cannot be resorted to till a great part of the mischief is done. Has not our 
correspondent confounded together two distinct insects? The insect which 
most “ injures the flowers”’ of roses, by eating into them while in the bud, is, 
we believe, the caterpillar of one of the sawfly tribe. The insect which eats 
a ringworm-like course, that afterwards turns brown, between the two sur- 
faces of the leaves of rose bushes, is Microsétia ruficapitélla ; of whose habits 
a description is given in the Hntomological Magazine, vol. i. p. 422.— J. D. 

Have any ha ybrid Varieties of the various Species of Cyclamen been originated ? 
—JI have for some years past taken great pains to cross the C. coum and C. 
vérnum with the C. persicum and C. repandum ; and the latter with the C. 


Queries and Answers. 187 


pérsicum ; but my hopes have always been disappointed. I can discover very 
little difference between C. coum and C. vérnum, with the exception of the 
leaf, which, in the latter, is marked something after the manner of the C. pér- 
sicum. With respect to the C. pérsicum, there are two varieties ; one marked 
with red at the bottom of the corolla, the other perfectly white. I have raised 
between forty and fifty seedlings from the latter; all of which have come 
with the red eye; and out of as many seedlings which I had from the varie- 
gated flower, I have never found one perfectly white. I therefore apprehend 
that the white is merely a scarce variety. With respect to the C. coum and 
C. vérnum, I have always found the seedlings come true to their respective 
characters. 

There are, I believe, six distinct species of this genus at present known; 
and three or four varieties of the C. hederzefolium, and two of the C. pérsicum ; 
but, if I mistake not, the Dutch, many years ago, possessed a greater number, 
either as species or varieties. [Twelve varieties and species, more or less 
distinct in flower, leaf, and habit, will be found figured in colours in Abraham 
Munting’s Naawwkeurige beschryving der Aadgewassen, commonly called Mun- 
ting’s Herbal; fol. Leyden, 1696.) Notwithstanding my want of success 
hitherto, I do not intend to desist from my attempt to procure a variety of C. 
pérsicum, C. coum, and C, repandum, unless some of your correspondents will 
be good enough to state some gatisfactory cause why these flowers should not 
mule as well as many other genera. 

[Among the Primulacez scarcely any hybrids are known. The varieties of 
polyanthuses and auriculas, obtained by cross impregnations, are not direct 
hybrids, as they are obtained from between previously extant varieties.] 

The species of Cyclamen are plants which no one having the least taste for 
flowers, and having the convenience of a green-house or frames, should be. 
without. The C. vérnum begins to bloom in November, and the C. coum 
about the end of December, and they continue in flower for some months; the 
C. pérsicum can be made to bloom from October to June; about the latter 
month the C. europz‘um comes into flower, and this is succeeded by the 
C. hederzefolium : so that one or other of this pretty genus is constantly in 
bloom. Ihave known plants of the C. vérnum and C. coum to produce up- 
wards of forty flowers each; thus enlivening the dreary months of winter 
with their elegant bloom. —H. London, Jan. 18. 1834. 

Of the white-petaled variety of C. pérsicum there are, I believe, in cultiva- 
tion a sub-variety with fragrant flowers, and one with flowers less or not at all 
fragrant ; and of the red and white petaled variety, similar sub-varieties. A 
memorandum lying by us (whence copied we know not) advises us of a 

C. pérsicum pétalis pluribus. “ Mr. H. Jackson of Old Lakenham ex- 
hibited a fine double cyclamen, a seedling variety of the C. pérsicum, with the 
mother plant.” (Norfolk and Norwich Horticultural Show. April 28. 1830.) 

A rare kind of Cyclamen is figured as C. europee‘um in Sweet’s Hlower- 
Garden, t. 176. (? Ist series), from the collection of Mr. Knight, Chelsea ; 
where it has borne, and may still bear, the name of C.hungaricum. This kind 
is a very interesting one, in its rarity, orbicular leaves, their redness on the 
subface and marbling on their surface, pretty flowers (which are not, however, 
that I know, prettier than those of any cyclamen), and the fragrance of these. 
— J.D. 

A few Observations on the Odours of Flowers. ris pérsica is delightfully 
fragrant to me ; and, finding it not so to some, I, in February, 1833, submitted 
flowers of it to the testing of 54 individuals: 41 pronounced it delightful ; 
4 slightly scented; 8 devoid of scent; and 1 declared it fetid. A plant which 
flowered in our stove in December, 1833, was declared agreeably scented by 
17, and devoid of scent by 10. Plants flowering at this time (Feb. 1834) in 
the borders have been pronounced fragrant by 9, and scentless by 14. 

Anemone nemordsa I find sweetly scented, and so do 23 out of 30 persons 
to whose judgment I have submitted its flowers; the remaining 7 persons 
could not perceive the slightest fragrance. 


188 London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Cyclamen pérsicum. 1 have heard and read a great deal about “ sweet- 
scented varieties of this plant.” I have never met with one that appeared 
scented to me. A fine plant exists in this garden: but neither last year 
nor this could I perceive any scent from it, and at least three fourths in 
number of the persons whom I have requested to smell it, have pronounced 
it delightful; but a few, like myself, could not perceive it odorous at ali. — 
Henry Turner. Botanic Garden, Bury St. Edmunds, Heb. 26. 1834. 

Garden Hedges either for Shade or as a Shelter for Fruit Trees. —1 am sur- 
prised that I never find the evergreen oak recommended for this purpose, as, 
when it has established itself, it runs up speedily, bears cutting well, and never 
robs the borders with its taproots, as others do. — John Robertson. Kilkenny, 
Jan. 6. 1834. ‘ 

Ripening Fruit. — Have gardeners come to any conclusive opinion on the 
efficacy of coloured walls in ripening fruit ? or on the effect of inclined planes, 
or the geometric centre of circles for the same purpose? These are subjects 
which it may be hoped will attract the attention of our societies, if not already 
decided. — Id. 

Disease in the Moorpark Apricot. (1X. 723.)— I do not consider the fol- 
lowing as a full answer to the query of J. S. H., but it will go a certain way 
towards it. Three or four years ago, I was exceedingly mortified by losmg 
several branches of two trees of the Moorpark apricot, and also by an indica- 
tion of a still more extensive devastation thereof, by a want of rotundity and 
firmness in the young shoots. Being at a loss as to the cause of such a pheno- 
menon where formerly health and fruitfulness existed, and being unable to 
gather from any quarter the desired information, I began to inspect rather 
minutely the whole of the remaining branches, and perceived near their base 
a flattened and darker appearance than usual. Although I could not, with the 
naked eye, discover any puncture, still I imagined that such might have been 
made ; consequently, | cut mto such parts as presented the above appearance, 
and was astonished at the quantity of living creatures which were there dis- 
covered eating the inner bark, and a part of the soft wood, or alburnum, and, 
withal, spreading disease for a considerable distance around them. If I 
remember correctly, these maggots varied from a quarter to three quarters of 
an inch in length, and were of a light colour. This happening in the spring, I 
cut away every diseased part, and applied a composition of soft soap, sulphur, 
and Scotch snuff, in order to destroy any remnant of the enemy, if by chance 
such were left behind.—J. Smith, Gardener to Dykes Alexander, Esq. 
Ipswich, Jan. 14, 1834. 


Art. VIL London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Dec. 3. 1833. — Read. A statement of observations and discoveries con- 
aected with the culture of melons; by the Author of Te Domestic Gardener’s 
Manual. An account of the Averrhoa Carambola, and particulars respecting 
the mode of cultivating it; by James Bateman, Esq. 

Exhibited. [In our report of the objects exhibited, we omit to mention the 
names of many which, though objects of merit, are already well known to be 
so by our readers.] Buddlea madagascariénsis and tasseled blush Chinese 
chrysanthemum, from Mrs. Marryatt. Fruit of Physalis peruviana, from 
J. Ryley, Esq. Chrysanthemum siménse Wheelerzdnwm, and six other seed- 
ling varieties, from Mr. Isaac Wheeler, Beaumont Buildings, Oxford. Gon- 
gora atropurpurea, and fruit of “Averrhoa Carambola, from J. Bateman, Esq. 
A “ white-blossom” potato; from Mr. G. Hawkins, Hythe, Kent: its weight 
was 2 lbs. 6 02. ; 

Presented. Flora Batava, No. 96.; by His Majesty the King of Holland. 

Read. Notes on the growth, under different circumstances, of the O’xalis 
crenata; by Mr. Thomas Corbett of Maryland Point Nursery. 


London Horticultural Society and Garden. 189 


Exhibited. Golden pippins, true; from Mrs. General Vansittart, Binfield 
Lodge, Great Marlow. Specimens of tallies, from Messrs. Doulton and 
Watts. (See p. 164.) 

From the Societys Garden. Thirty-five sorts of kitchen and table apples; 
Beurré Rance pears and Easter bergamot, off standard trees. 

Keb. 4.— Presented. Cinquiéme Notice sur les Plantes rares cultivées dans 
le Jardin de Geneve, par Messrs. A. and P. de Candolle; presented by the 
authors. Succincta Relazione del Viaggio fatto in Abruzzo dal Cavalier Te- 
nore neil’ esta del 1829; presented by 8S. Tenore. Osservazioni e Notizie 
relative alle Larve pregiudicevoli alla Pianta de Gran Turco (Zea Mays) ; pre- 
sented by the author, Dr. Carlo Passerini. Osservazioni sopra alcune Larve 
e Tignole del’ Ulivo; presented by the same author. Memoria sopra due 
specie d’ Insetti nocivi alla Vite delle Procris ampelophaga ed all’ Cavolo 
arboreo; presented by the same. Osservazioni sul Baco dannegiatore delle 
Ulive, e sulla Mosca in cui si transforma; presented by the same. 

Read. A communication on a method of producing grapes from vine cut- 
tings the first season; by Mr. John Mearns, F.H.S. A second communication 
from Mr. Mearns on this subject was read at the meeting on Feb, 18. Mr. 
Mearns has also favoured us with adescription of his mode. (See p. 138.) A 
Report on Experiments on the comparative Growth of two Pine-Apples, by 
Mr. Donald Munro. 

Exhibited. Apples gathered on Feb. 3.,im the garden of Col. Tweedy of 
Bromley; communicated by T. C. Palmer, Esq. Govénia supérba, from 
J. Bateman, Esq. Amaryllis adlica, from Sir C. Lemon, Bart. From the 
open ground, Acacia dealbata and Raphidélepis rubra, from Rev. T. Garnier. 
From Messrs. Chandler, these varieties of Caméllea japonica, — eclipse, 
punctata or invincible, Rosa mundi, Park’s rose-striped, althzeflora, and car- 
nation Waratah. A splendid plant of Cereus speciosissimus, from the open 
border, from Mrs. Lawrence. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Apples (the best of these apples for 
the table are marked *; for kitchen use +; all of them have been frequently 
remarked upon): +{Alfriston, *Cockle pippin; *Braddick’s nonpareil, very 
abundant bearer; Tulip, +French crab, Reinette Diel; Calville malingre, a 
great bearer; Baxter’s pearmain, *Scarlet nonpareil, *Court pendu plat, 
*Golden Harvey, Belledge, *+London pippin, *Reinette du Canada, + Royal 
russet, |Hormead pearmain, *Robinson’s pippin, Royal reinette, --Bedford- 
shire foundling, * New rock pippin, *+Burn’s seedling, Rose de China, +Bra- 
bant bellefleur, Norfolk Paradise, Rhode Island greening, Black crab, Martin 
nonpareil, Hay’s incomparable, Red everlasting, American black. Beurré 
rance pears, from standards. Lord Bagot’s seedling pine-apple. Flowers: 
Justicia Adhdtoda, E’pacris purpurascens, Primula pre‘nitens, Acacia deal- 
bata, from the open air; J‘ris tuberésa, Amygdalus macrocaérpa; Prunus 
sibirica, cerasifera, Pseudo-Cérasus ; A’rbutus Andrachne, Camélla sp. Capt. 
Drummond, and the following varieties of C. japénica, — élegans, imbricata, 
Aitonia, Rosa sinénsis, carnation Waratah, double white, spléndens. 

Feb. 18. — Presented by G. Bentham, Esq., secretary, vols. i. and ii. of the 
Dictionnaire du Bon Jardinier, and Catalogues of the Trees, Shrubs, &c., in 
the Nurseries of Messrs. Audibert of Tarascon. By the author, Recherches 
anatomiques et physiologiques sur le Marchantia polymorpha, par M. Mirbel. 
Tomes i. ii. and iii. du Cours de Culture et de Naturalisation des Végétaux, 
par A. Thouin. 

Read. A communication on the management of bark-beds, by Mr. John 
Jackson. A programme of the regulations to be observed at the ensuing 
exhibitions at the Society’s garden. These are announced to take place at 
the garden, for thé exhibition of choice specimens of fruit cr flowers, on the 
four following days, May 10., June 7., July 5., September 13.; to these 
exhibitions all persons, whether fellows of the Society or not, are invited to 
contribute. 

Exhibited. Caméllia reticulata, from Messrs. Chandler and J. Allnutt, Esq. 


190 London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Protea speciosa; Acacia dealbata, stricta, sp.; Strelitzia reginee, Astrapz‘a 
Wallichw, Anemone horténsis, a species of Tropz‘olum, Newtown pippins 
and specimens of flower-glasses from Mrs. Marryatt. A hybrid amaryllis, 
from between A. Johnson and A. pulverulénta; from Sir A. Hume, Bart. 
Tubers of the Batavian potato, from H. Hollist, Esq. 

Also, from the Society’s Garden. Apples: New rock pippin, a very good 
dessert apple, a seedling from the Newtown pippm; Rose de China; Rother 
Borsdorfter, not of much merit in this climate, nor are any of the the Bors- 
dorffers, compared with what they possess in Germany; Norfolk beaufin, 
Grey queening, Royal russet, Winter queening; London pippin, Baxter’s 
pearmain, Dutch mignonne, Court pendu plat, Cockle pippin, these have fre- 
quently been remarked upon as good apples; Reinette Diel, Morden round, 
Grange’s pearmain, Braddick’s nonpareil, a very abundant bearer; Green 
nonpareil, scarcely equal to the Old nonpareil; Yorkshire greening, Pomme 
violet, French crab, Scarlet nonpareil, American black, Bedfordshire found- 
ling, Belledge ; Red everlasting, one of Mr. Braddick’s apples, from America, 
showy, but “not rich. Pears: Beurré rance, from a standard; Winter bon 
Chrétien, from a wall. Flowers: Gastonia palmata; Acacia dealnveel from 
the open air; Azalea indica hybrida, Oncidium carthaginénse; the following 
varieties of Caméllia japonica, —imbricata, Colville, double white, élegans, 
papaveracea, princeps, carnation Waratah, spléndens, sp. Capt. Drummond; 
Bérberis Aquitolium, Iris tuberosa. 

For Distribution at the Meeting. Cuttings of Early purple Guigne cherry ; 
Thompson’s pear, a sort received originally from Belgium, without a name, 
about the size of a Passe-Colmar, of excellent flavour, ripe in December. It 
is undoubtedly a new sort, and likely to be quite free from canker; and is a 
good bearer. 

March 4,— Read. An account of some experiments made in the garden 
of the Society with a view to ascertain the relative productiveness of the tubers. 
and sets of potatoes, by Dr. Lindley. 

Exhibited. Royal nonpareil, William Shakspeare, Duke of Gloucester, 
and Golden Harvey apples, and Hardenpont pears, from Thomas Hunt, Esq. 
Six sorts of camellias, and a seedling sort, said to be sweet-scented, from Mr. 
Steel of Richmond. Flowers of camellias, Rhododéndron arboreum album, 
R. album hybridum, and Acacia verticillata, from William Wells, Esq. 
Bérberis, a new simple-leafed species of, from Chile, from Mr. Joseph Knight. 
Caméllia Raweszadna, and a seedling from C. japénica spléndens, from J. All- 
nutt, Esq. 

From the Garden of the Society. Fifteen kinds of apples, on two of which, 
the Yorkshire greening and Northern greening, there was this remark at- 
tached by Mr. Thompson : :— These two "good sorts of kitchen apple are often 
confused. The Northern greening is the ‘soundest keeping kind; it has often 
a projection at the base, like the lemon pippin, but its flesh is’ very different, 
being crisp with a brisk acid juice. Flowers: the following varieties of 
Camellia japonica, — imbricata, spiéndens, Young’s seedling, Aitonia, Chand- 
leri, Parks, Rosa sinénsis, carnation Waratah, “corallina, princeps, papave- 
racea, large semidouble Waratah, decora, élegans, double white, maliflora ; 
Ribes punctatum, Bérberis Aquifolium, Leucdjum pulchéllum, Tris mbes. 
Ornithégalum nutans, Begonia heracleifoium, Erica Peziza and tréssula, 
E’pacris paludosa and pulchélla, Echeveéria gibbiflora, Azalea indica pheenicea 
and indica hybrida. Cuttings of the following kinds of pears were sent for 
distribution, — Beurré Bosc, an abundant bearer as a standard; Comte de 
Lamy, a hardy, not very large, but very rich autumn pear, excellent as a 
standard: Monarch, Beurré rance, Bon Chrétien fondant, quite melting and 
cool; Grumkower Winterbirne. This last sort was originally received from 
Dr. Adrian Diel of Nassau Dietz. It was discovered at Grumkow, near 
Riigenwalde, in the further or Prussian Pomerania (Hinterpommern), ‘about 
three miles from the Baltic. It has proved to be a very good pear, even on a 
standard in the garden. Size rather large, with yellow buttery flesh, 


Covent Garden Market. 


Art. VIII. 


From 
& s. d. 


The Cabbage Tribe. 


Cabbage, per dozen : 
White - c = 
Red = o e 
Plants or Coleworts - 
Brussels Sprouts, per 3 sieve 
Broccoli, per bunch : 


White = - a 
! (Purple - - és 
Legumes. 
Kidneybeans, forced, per 
hundred s 6 
Tubers and Roots. 

per ton - 

Potatoes - § per cwt. - 
per bushel 

Kidney - = 3 

Scotch = = 4 


New, per pound wiih Ms 
Jerusalem Artichokes, per half 
sieve - - - 
Turnips, White = a 
Carrots, per bunch: 

Old - - a 

Horn - ” - 
Parsneps, per dozen 0 
Red Beet, perdozen- Ss - 
Skirret, per bunch = c 
Scorzonera, per bundle - 
Salsify, per bunch - - 
Horseradish, per bundle - 
Radishes : 

Red, per dozen hands (24 to 

30 each) 2 2 
White Turnip, per bunch 


The Spinach Tribe. 

. per sieve Si 
Spinach per half sieve S 
Sorrel, per half sieve 5 


The Onion Tribe. 


Onions : 
Old, per bushel ae 
Ciboules, green, per bunct 
Leeks, per dozen bunches - 
Chives, per dozen roots es 
Garlic, per pound = ze 
Shallots, per pound - 


Asparaginous Plants, 
Salads, &c. 


Asparagus, per hundred : 
Large 2 ° a 
Middling : 2 
Small - < eS 

Sea-kale, per punnet - 

Cardoons, per bunch (three) 

- Lettuce, per score: 
Cos - 
Cabbage 3 = 5 


Observations. — The 


oo oooco 


en 


esooesosos coo Soocoos 


coo 


ooo 


oooocoes 


Soo coooso 


coo Fete 


_ 


e 
~woorooeo COF RFNHNNHKS 


Oe oo 


ooec]e:n 


Gort G1 00 


om 


(op) MO ANAC 


MNEOSCDCADOF, HKD HMDUOHDWAS 


co 6 


Kori} 


MADOMwWDA 


SAaASS 


+ GO 


i=) 


eooeocooco co ocSoSoScOoON 


oo 


ooo 


Scosooco 


oo coooo 


Covent Garden Market. 


3 


Oe eee OOD Cr wWrmoowmnae 


On” 


oor 


ROH ot 


eS 


Sto HDwoL Ars 


wo GDAGCHSS Dn 


SWwUIAnnocc 


on 


ow oo 


Snoocon 


Endive, per score - - 
Celery, per bundle (12 to 15) 
Small Salads, per punnet- - 
Watercress, per dozen small 
bunches - - 
Burnet, per bunch - - 


Pot and Sweet Herbs. 
Parsley, per half sieve - 
Tarragon, per dozen bunches 

Dried - - - 
Fennel, per dozen bunches - 
Thyme, per dozen bunches 
Sage, per dozen bunches” - 
Mint, per dozen bunches” - 
Peppermint, dried, per dozen 

bunches - - - 
Marjoram, dried, per doz. bun. 
Savory, per dozen bunches ~ 
Basil, dried, per dozen bunch. 
Rosemary, per dozen bunches 
Lavender, dried, per doz. bun. 
Tansy, dried, per doz. bunches 


Stalks and Fruits for Tarts, 
Pickling, &c. 


Rhubarb Stalks, per bundle 


Edible Fungi and Fue. 


Mushrooms, per pottle - 
Morels, per pound - 5 
Truffles, per pound: 
English - AS 
Foreign 5 3 = 


Fruits. 

Apples, Dessert, per bushel : 
Nonpareils - - 
Newtown Pippins 

Baking, per bushel - 
American - = 
French 3 = 

Pears, Dessert, per dozen : 
Bon Chrétien - - 

Almonds, per peck - - 

Strawberries, forced, per oz. 

Chestnuts, French, per peck 

Pine-apples, per pound - 

Grapes, per pound: 

Hot-house © = é 
Portugal, White - = 
Red = - = 

Cucumbers, frame, per brace 

er dozen Sis 

Oranges ee hundred S 

Bitter Oranges = = 


per dozen = 
per hundred 
Sweet Almonds, per pound 
Brazil Nuts, per bushel a 
Spanish Nuts, per peck - 
Barcelona Nuts, per peck = 


Lemons 


escoosecoco Soscocé oS 


So 


co HS 


ecocococecseosS!S! ocooooo ecoce 


oo coothy 


BRDOORRRHE BOOSH OCOH, 


ry 


ran 
COnNDor TODOS 


ray 


= 
TUB WIMORHAOOGAEMOHOS 


— 


co Sconeed 


wa Seen 


SAowSoo SooocooDn 


ito) 


oo oO 


an 
SoSwpooeoceancos cOonce cocseso 


19} 


oo cool 
oo Orn? be) 


oOo wank 


SeoASCSSS SCARGACH 


oz 


eoocoooo coececose 
SOoOwmpoceoom ocwrmconwcr~ 


coo oo (=) 
Py 
Dn 


id 


nH — 
SOKNSCMWSTOWSCWET WONWOD BDwwwod 


a 
eoocooceocowno ocoocoso ccece 


qoooccorrccoor coeceoe cococor 


weather, since the last report, having continued fine 


and open, little interruption has taken place in our general supplies, which 
have been regular, and quite equal to the demand. To the present period the 
season has been unusually mild, without the slightest interruption from frost ; 
so that the growers have been enabled to carry on their operations at the 


least possible expense or difficulty. 


as asparagus, sea-kale, &c. 
(=) b) ) 


dulgence as to be confined to the tables of the rich. 
generally consumed, but certainly at less nominal cost. 


They, however, still ‘complain of the 
want of encouragement in the shape of demand and good prices for many of 
their articles (which cannot be produced but at considerable expense), such 
Tt will, however, I think, be found that these 
articles are now supplied in so much greater abundance, from the increased 
cultivation of them, that the produce must necessarily be disposed of at less 
prices, comparatively, to allow the public to consume them extensively ; 
whereas heretofore they have been considered so exclusively articles of in- 


They are now more 
Rhubarb is now so 


192 Obituary. 


generally and so extensively cultivated, as to form, at this season, one of the 
leading articles; and, from the strenuous competition, many fine early varieties 
are to be observed, from the natural ground, almost superseding the forcing of 
it after this period. Of early cabbages we have had as yet but few; but, when 
we consider the early season, it is extraordinary to observe them of such 
excellent quality and at such moderate prices. Of broccolis the supply has 
been limited within the last two or three weeks, the later varieties having 
already been forced into the market by the extreme mildness of the season. 
It is only on the retentive soils that any can be preserved for the present and 
ensuing months. It has been heretofore usual to have an abundance up to 
the time for early cauliflowers in May and June. Radishes from the open 
ground are plentiful, allowing but little opportunity for the disposal of the 
forced, which has been our usual source of supply during the months of © 
March and April. A great many run coleworts have been brought to market 
during the last month, so that a large surface of soil must have been cleared, 
which will, I think, render our supplies during the months of April and May 
rather short, unless peas should be furnished at a much earlier period than 
usual, which, from the continued improvement in the sorts now generally cul- 
tivated, and the openness of the weather, may be confidently anticipated. EF 
have heard of many being already in bloom, which is extraordinarily early. 
Considerable fears are entertained for the crop of fruit, owing to the=pre- 
cocious state of the season, many of the early varieties of pears and plums 
being already in full bloom. Of all other articles the supplies have been 
generally good; and from the river having been uninterruptedly open, potatoes 
have come to hand in tolerable abundance, and at prices little varying from 
the former report. Our stock of apples continues good, with a promise of 
regular supplies for some time to come, which will of course supersede the 
necessity of importation; a few cargoes only have been brought in, the duty 
of 4s. per bushel almost excluding the commoner varieties. Of American apples 
we have had a large importation, from time to time, during the season, some 
few of excellent quality, the greater part in bad condition. The Newtown 
pippin is at all times a tender apple, and requires to be picked carefully and 
packed very securely, to insure a chance of success in getting it here in good 
condition. — G. C. 


Art. IX. Obituary. 


Diep, at New Cross Nursery, Deptford, March 13., Mr. George Sinciair, 
F.L.S., H.S., &c., nurseryman, in the forty-eighth year of his age. Mr. Sin- 
clair was many years gardener to the Duke of Bediord, at Woburn Abbey, 
and conducted there, under the direction of Sir Humphry Davy, an extensive 
series of experiments to determine the nutritive powers of the British grasses 
and herbage plants. It was there also that Mr. Sinclair composed the Hortus 
Gramineus Woburnensis, a national work, which embodies the results of the 
experiments alluded to, and is the most important of its kind that ever was 
published. Mr. Sinclair was also the author of various other publications 
or articles, the last of which, we believe, was the Treatise on useful and orna- 
mental Planting, published by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Know- 
ledge. In the history of British agriculture, the name of George Sinclair will 
hold a conspicuous station in all future times, as the introducer of a new and 
improved system of laying down lands in grass. Mr. Sinclair had a consider- 
able knowledge of chemistry, and was a good vegetable physiologist ; hence 
all that he wrote bore a character of scientific enquiry, as well as of prac- 
tical skill. As a man, few stood higher in our estimation; and it may be 
truly said, that he was esteemed and beloved by all who knew him. His 
early death, we believe, may be chiefly attributed to the profound grief which 
preyed on him after being suddenly bereaved of an only daughter, who died 
in April, 1833, about the same time that Mr. Sinclair lost his father and his 
uncle. (See TX. 512.) 


ARE we AE abn eT 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
MAY, 1834. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Art. I. Notes on Gardens and Country Seats, visited, from July 27. 
to September 16., during a Tour through Part of Middlesex, Berk- 
shire, Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire, Wiltshire, Dorsetshire, Hamp- 
shire, Sussex, and Kent. By the ConpucTor. 


(Continued from p. 119.) 


Larriecot Park, General Popham. —Aug. 16. This is a fine 
old place of the sixteenth century, with both the house and the 
grounds in perfect preservation. ‘Taking it altogether, we 
hardly know of such another: Wroxton, near Banbury, bears 
a remote resemblance to it. ‘The house lies in a deep secluded 
bottom on the river Kennet, enclosed by walled gardens; which 
are surrounded by a park consisting of high ground under turf, 
and laid out in avenues and lines, chiefly of elms and beeches, in 
the geometrical style. ‘The approach-road forms an avenue of 
elms 30 ft. wide and a furlong in length, which brings the 
stranger to the enriched iron gates in front of the venerable 
mansion. It is characterised by high roofs covered with tiles, 
by various gable-ends projecting from them, and by magnificent 
cathedral-like windows, reaching from the ground to the eaves. 
The entrance is through iron gates and palisading, to a circular 
platform; to the right and left of which are flower-gardens and 
shrubberies, planted with shrubs and flowers now considered 
common, but kept in the very highest order. At the west end 
of one of these gardens is a raised platform, or terrace, from 
which the park and all the pleasure-gardens are overlooked. 
Having obtained permission from the general to see the place, 
we passed on to the kitchen-garden. In this garden, the first 
things which we observed were glass frames, in M. Lindegaard’s 
manner, for ripening peaches and nectarines against the walls, 
without fire-heat. ‘These frames occasion very little trouble; 
and the fruit comes in between the forced peaches and those 
ripened on the open wall. There are a number of hot-houses 
and pits, in which pine-apples, melons, and other articles are 
Vou. X.— No. 50. ) 


194 Notices of some Country Seats 


admirably grown. On one wall there are several apricot trees, 
which, Mr. Groom, the gardener, informed us, the general con- 
sidered to be as old as the place: they bear abundantly every 
year. A branch of the river Kennet passes through the lower 
part of the garden, in a straight walled canal: thus affording an 
opportunity of growing excellent watercresses, and of keeping’ 
crawfish, eels, and other fish in stews. ‘There is a pond for 
carp, surrounded by a rockwork or ridge of flints, planted with 
strawberries, the fruit of which ripens a fortnight or three weeks 
sooner than that in the open garden. 

This is one of the very few places which we have seen which 
come entirely up to our ideas of high order and keeping, even 
to the melon-ground and the back sheds. The walks in the 
flower-gardens are chiefly of turf, and the flower-beds are brimful 
of soil; so that the line carried round them, though distinct, is 
perfectly soft and delicate. ‘The grass is smoothly mown; and 
the decayed flowers are pinched off daily by women. The 
general not only allows as many men and women to be employed 
as are necessary to keep the place in perfect order, but he pays 
the men 3s. a week more than is given in the neighbourhood, 
and allows half-wages during sickness. ‘The gardener here, 
Mr. Groom, is the son of the gardener to Sir Charles Cockerell, 
at Seisincote, Gloucestershire: a place which we saw in 1806, 
when it was highly kept; and which, we are informed, still con- 
tinues to be one of the best kept places in England. The readers. 
of Sir Walter Scott’s works will, no doubt, recollect the singular 
tradition which he mentions respecting Littlecot Park. ‘The 
story is related at length in the Beauties of England and Wales ; 
and the room in which the tragical scene took place is said to be 
still in existence. 


(To be continued.) 


Art. II. Notices of some Country Seats in the North-Eastern Counties 
of England. By G. W. 


(Continued from p. 122.) 


WuHITE HILL, near Chester le Street, is the seat of John Cook- 
son, Esq., who succeeded to the estates on the demise of his 
father, Isaac Cookson, Esq., in 1832. That liberal patron of 
gardening lived for more than half a century at this delightful 
place; and to him it is indebted for the many great improve- 
ments that were made in it under the management of his inde- 
fatigable gardener, Mr. Crossling. ‘The road, for half a mile 
from Chester le Street to the end of the approach, is one of the 
most picturesque imaginable: it winds up a valley, occasionally 


in the North-Eastern Counties. 195 


intersected by a considerable brook. ‘The inhabitants of Ches- 
ter le Street have their gardens tastefully laid out on the sloping 
banks of this brook, which are called ‘* Bishop’s waste;” and 
are let fer the small acknowledgment of a sixpence or a shilling 
yearly. I have often been delighted, in the summer evenings, 
to observe industrious mechanics and their families amusing 
themselves in their little gardens: some engaged in rearing 
those wholesome vegetables so necessary for the comfort of their 
families ; others trying to excel in the cultivation of auriculas, 
polyanthuses, stocks, rockets, hellyhocks, &c. I have seldom 
seen better vegetables, fruits, and flowers grown than in these 
small gardens; and the only reason I can assign for this is, the 
desire which each has to surpass the others. The principal 
objects in the view from White Hill house, which is situated on 
an eminence, are, the towering steeple of Chester le Street church, 
and Lambton and Lumley castles. The appearance of the 
latter is peculiarly grand. ‘The pleasure-cround is suitable to 
the house, and is well embellished with clumps of various dimen- 
sions. ‘The south front and west side are partly covered with 
a metal trelliswork entwined with China roses, having other 
kinds budded on them; and a very large arbutus projects from 
a wall that connects the house and conservatory. A splendid 
specimen of Araucaria excélsa, which is planted in the middle of 
the conservatory, is an object of great attraction to visiters. 
‘The principal approach is on the north front, near to the mar- 
gin of a very deep valley, with Chester le Street brook rolling 
along its pebbly bed. After the eye has glanced from this valley, 
a rich agricultural country opens to view, with the township of 
Pelton in the distance. ‘The kitchen-garden is a parallelogram, 
enclosing two acres, and having one on the outside. There is 
a very neat green-house, with a good collection of pelargo- 
niums; having 60 ft. of vinery at one end, and 120 ft. of vinery 
and peach-house at the other. A movable peach-house, 30 ft. 
in length and 6 ft. in breadth, is placed against one of the best 
peach and nectarine walls in the north of England. This wall 
has a metal coping, projecting several inches, which answers 
very well as a protection to the trees. In an east slip there is 
a flued pit for melons, surrounded by a yew hedge 4 ft. high and 
2? ft. thick in front; the ends sloping to the back, which is 7 ft. 
high: this hedge is universally admired, owing to the neat man- 
ner in which it is kept. Mr. Crossling has been upwards of 
twenty years head gardener ; and, in all the departments of his 
profession, can seldom be equalled. He is a very successful 
grape and peach grower, having had them ripe in March. The 
garden, pleasure-ground, and, indeed, every part of these grounds, 
be it ever so obscure, are always in the highest order and keep- 


ing. The cause of this is, Mr. Crossling’s systematic method of 
0 2 


196 Country Seats in the North-Eastern Counties. 


apportioning the work, and doing every thing when it ought to 
be done. Well do I recollect the expression he used to make 
use of: that “ a garden well kept was easily kept.” It was his 
practice to hoe quarters planted with vegetables soon after they 
were put in the ground, which not only destroyed all seed-weeds 
_in their germinating state, but loosened the soil, and admitted 
heat and air to penetrate to the roots of the plants; thus acce- 
lerating their growth. Many gardeners never think of applying 
the hoe and rake to a piece of ground until it is completely 
covered with weeds; and, often, not before these have shed their 
seed: if they would think of the old proverb, that “a stitch in 
time saves nine,” they would not be so dilatory. ‘The length of 
time it takes to clean a quarter overrun with weeds, and one 
with the weeds scarcely making their appearance, must be 
obvious to every one; not taking into account the crop that will 
soon make its appearance if the weeds have seeded. White 
Hill is (for, I understand, the present proprietor is following the 
example of his father) one of the best kept places in England: 
for my part, I have seen none equal to it. In most places 
in the north of England, assistants and garden labourers have 
from four o’clock on the Saturday afternoon to themselves, as 
an equivalent for the half hour they work over the ten hours 
during the week: at White Hill the regulation was, to drop 
work at five o’clock p.m. during the week, except on Saturdays, 
when the labourers left off at three. This regulation, so bene- 
ficial to the assistants, in place of increasing work, diminished it. 
Mr. Crossling, who is one of the best of masters, and who is 
universally respected, used to say, that men, if they employed 
their time well, might do as much work in nine hours and a half 
as in ten hours and a half, the usual period. ‘There is one dis- 
interested trait in his behaviour to his young men which I cannot 
let pass unnoticed, particularly as it regards a practice in all places 
of any magnitude in his neighbourhood : that is, never exacting 
any premiums from them, notwithstanding their wages, privi- 
leges, &c., are as good as any in their vicinity, and their oppor- 
tunities of acquiring a knowledge of their profession a great deal 
superior; for never did a master pay more attention to instruct 
men, provided their conduct is worthy of it, than he does. 
Lumley Castle, built in the reign of Edward J., is situated on 
the brow of a hill, commanding views over a well-wooded valley 
of the first description. The principal drive leads to the west 
front; the ascent to the great entrance-hall is by two divisions 
of stairs, parallel with the building, forming a spacious resting- 
place before entering. From this is seen the river Wear, 
formed into a beautiful sheet of water by means of a dam. Half 
a mile farther is the town of Chester le Street, with its ancient 
church and lofty spire, the highest in the north of England. In 


Landscape-Gardening of Germany and England. 197 


one side of the church, which was built prior to the castle, are 
the statues of many of the forefathers of the Lumleys; likewise 
that of St. Cuthbert, whose remains had lain here 115 years, when 
the monks, expelled by the Danes, fled with them to Ripon. Lum- 
ley Castle is a quadrangular edifice, with four majestic octangular 
towers; remarkable for being the resting-place of James I. of 
Scotland, on his way to ascend the throne of England. The 
castle is seen from the great London road for five miles, and is 
much admired by travellers. ‘This noble building has not been 
inhabited by any of the proprietors, the Earls of Scarborough, 
for thirty years. ‘The garden, which is small, is situated in a 
valley to the east of the castle; and has been let for many years 
to Mr. Earl, who, besides being a good gardener, is also a florist. 
Staffordshire, Nov. 1833. G. W. 


Art. III. Observations on the Landscape-Gardening of Germany, as 
compared with that of England. By the Chevalier CHARLES SCKELL, 
Director-General of Gardens in the Kingdom of Bavaria. 

I wave read, with much gratification, the notices, in several 
Numbers of your Magazine, of our gardens here, and our ma- 
nagement of them. The manner in which you express yourself 
is indeed very flattering; and I should say that you had done 
our gardens and our art too much honour, had J not conceived 
that I found, in the opinions of several foreigners who have 
visited us, and particularly of your own countrymen, in some 
measure, the confirmation of your views, particularly with regard 
to our gardens in the natural style. ‘This favourable judgment 
may be readily adopted, without disparagement to the English 
gardens, as the two styles of gardening are, in my opinion, essen- 
tially different. 

When I speak of the English style of gardening, I mean only 
as it is exhibited in the grand and beautiful specimens which 
Brown, Kent, and a few others, have left us ; not that which, in 
these latter times, is so often practised in laying out garden 
grounds in England, and which has as little relation to the truly 
creative art of gardening, as the pictures of our modern painters 
have to the works of Raphael. 

Considered with respect to real landscape beauties, picturesque 
effects, and grand imaginative characteristics, the English garden 
style is, in the present times, markedly retrograde. When I 
was in England, in 1817, I found the gardens in the new English 
style, as I met with it, for the most part oppressed with the 
burthen of their own ornaments. The immense multitudes of 


plants which, since the commencement of the present century, 
0 3 


198 Landscape-Gardening of Germany 


have been brought from all parts of the world to Europe, and 
more especially to England, supplies the landscape-gardener with 
an inexhaustible fund for decorating his grounds. ‘There are thus 
to be found numerous varieties of trees and shrubs, which, either 
by their elegant growth, the picturesque disposition of their 
-branches and foliage, or by their beautiful flowers, belong to the 
first class of ornaments for landscape-gardening. ‘The palette 
of the landscape-painter, if I may so express myself, is now 
loaded with such a mass of colours and tints, that his means are 
superabundant, compared with the work of art which he has to 
create. That picturesque keeping, those rich ornaments, and 
those magie charms, whereby the scenes of the landscape-garden 
are distinguished from natural landscape, all afford resources of 
which the landscape-gardener is enabled to avail himself; and 
these have become so multiplied (for, compared with those known 
even in Brown’s time, they are increased tenfold), that the artist- 
gardener is really involved in great embarrassment, to prevent 
the superabundance of forms and colours, which he finds at his 
command, from presenting a painful confusion of objects, instead 
of uniting to form a perfect and beautiful whole. 

It might have been supposed that this richness of vegetation 
would be highly advantageous to landscape-gardening in Eng- 
land, where, formerly, the most classical models of the natural 
garden style were to be found; and that it would have given 
immensely increased facilities to the artist for the execution of 
his work: but, according to my experience, as I have already 
stated, I found quite the contrary. Amidst the disproportionate 
abundance of his materials, the artist knows not which to take 
first: one is scarcely chosen, when he is attracted to another; 
then to a third, a fourth, and so on. ach tree, and each shrub, 
has some particular charm to reconimend it, and, finally, that 
none may be lost, he grasps them all. 

Thus I found the English gardens a real chaos of unconnected 
beauties. Shrub adjoined shrub, and tree approached tree ; but, 
instead of being disposed in grand masses, the separate kinds 
were brought together only in small groups, as if the given 
space, extensive as it might be, could contain plantations of 
every species of plant. In such gardens, picturesque beauty is 
sacrificed to a wilderness of forms and colours, and the result is 
only an immense mosaic. Simplicity, the foundation of true 
beauty, is entirely lost: the elevated grandeur of form, the de- 
lightful distribution of varied colouring, the magical interchange 
of tints, the delicate transitions from light to shade, from the 
bright glowing objects of the parterre to the dark groves of deep 
retiring plantations, no longer appear; for these effects can only 
be produced by the employment of trees and shrubs correspond- 
ing in kind. England has lost all that had raised gardening te 


compared with that of England. 199 


the rank of a fine art; and even the old beautiful models of 
gardening in the natural style, I found, had been compelled, in 
obedience to modern taste, to draw the ceil of fashionable orna- 
ment over their original charms. 

Such, at least, was the state in which Bid phish gardening ap- 
peared to me, when I saw it in practice some fifteen years ago: 
whether there is now a return to the former simplicity ; whether 
the employment of the new productions of foreign regions has 
been directed with more zsthetic [exalted] judgment, and with a 
more artist-like feeling of the beautiful; in a word, whether the 
noble simplicity of the old masters is again in vogue, I know 
not; but I most earnestly wish it to be so. If I have been far 
from estimating our Munich gardens in point of art above the 
English, it must be regarded as only conditionally; for I repeat 
that here the question is respecting the grand works of the early 
period, and not the later productions of modern confusion in the 
gardening style. The former only were the sublime examples 
whereby the artist who created the great structures of art here 
was guided. ‘These were the examples which were always in his 
mind as guides, in the path he had cut out for himself, for carry- 
ing the early taste in English gardening to perfection, and thus 
creating a new style, which I call the German, and consider the 
foundation of classical garden art. 

That thus our German landscape-garden style, though built 
on the English, as the English was on the Chinese [ ? ], is yet, in 
its best models, essentially distinct from the English, is what I 
shall here endeavour farther to illustrate. 

The old English garden style, even at the period when it was 
most flourishing, was always exposed to the reproach of a too 
great sim pllicity,) and too little alternation in its pictures, scenes, 
forms, and colours; and this reproach, which was perhaps cor- 
rect, had reference to some of the greatest works of the kind. 
The wish to avoid these faults may be the main cause why, at a 
niore recent period, the English garden became so superfluously 
overloaded with petty forms, and too great a variety of plant- 
ations and flower ornaments; as, in avoiding one error, a greater 
is often committed. In this respect, I can say, with confidence, 
that we Germans have been fortunate. Whether it is to be 
accounted for by our not having within our power the endless 
variety of plants which the Enelish gardener possesses, many of 
which cannot be grown in our soil and climate, or by more cor- 
rect views having guided our gardeners, I do not pretend to 
determine. 

Be this, however, as it may, I believe I can venture to assert 
that the true German garden style exhibits, in its classical purity, 
a just medium between the too great simplicity and excessive 


ornament of English gardens: but that here I only mean the 
o 4 


200 Leafing of Oak Trees, 


best of our German gardens, the number of which is yet too 
small, is what I scarcely need to mention; for our Germany has 
also an abundance of abortions in what, either here or in Eng- 
land, may be called ‘ symmetrical order made gardens.” 

Simplicity without monotony, and richness without superfluity, 
indicate the genuine German garden style; and thus give the 
German garden a place between the old and the new English. 
Another and yet more essential distinction is found in the ap- 
propriate distribution of the several kinds of trees and shrubs, 
particularly in respect to the colour of their foliage, the structure 
of their leaves, their size, and the form of their growth. 

Had you, Sir, been here at any other period of the year 
than the latter end of it; had you, for instance, viewed our 
gardens in the month of May or September, you would, I think, 
have admired the manner in which they are planted; the artistical 
calculation exercised in the employment of colours, and forms, 
and transitions, and contrasts; and the judicious consideration, 
everywhere visible, of the character of the trees, as to their 
capability of producing a cheerful or a grave, a grand or a 
mysterious, impression, according as the garden scene, the archi- 
tectural subject, or any particular natural accident, might require 
such character. Had you seen these in their full perfection, you 
would, I think, have found a much greater peculiarity in the 
formation of our gardens than you then observed. 

The essence of that peculiarity is, however, very difficult to 
be pointed out to any one who has not seen an example of it. 
Nevertheless, it is explained, as far as a subject can be explained 
which depends so much upon the feelings of the artist, in the 
Beytrigen der bildenden Gartenkunst, von L. Friedr. von Sckell, 
Munchen, 1823; a work which is well known to you. 

Munich, July, 1833. SCKELL. 


ART. IV. Remarks on the Leafing of Oak Trees, and the Tints of the 
early Foliage. By the Rev. W. T. Bres, A.M. 


THE most inattentive observer can hardly fail to have remarked 
that there is a very considerable difference (a difference, perhaps, 
of not less than a month or six weeks) in the period at which 
different individuals of the same species of oak (Quércus Robur) 
expand and shed their leaves: those, of course, which assume 
their foliage earliest in the spring, losing it earliest in the 

autumn ; and wice versd. Accordingly, it is very common to see 
one oak tree in full verdure, while its next neighbour, only a few 
yards distant in the same wood or hedgerow, is perfectly bare, 
or, at most, with its buds only bursting. It is an equally obvious 


and Tints of the early Foliage. 2901 


emark, that these trees vary no less in the tints which they 
exhibit on first coming into leaf; and, again, nearly as much so 
when they are preparing to lay aside their honours in the autumn. 
‘The budding oak,” says Gilpin, ‘ displays great variety.” 
Of the vernal tints, which, if not so rich and luxuriant in the eye 
of the painter, are yet exceedingly tender and beautiful, some 
are of a delicate green, others rich brown, yellow, bright sul- 
phur-coloured, red almost approaching to scarlet, with innumer- 
able intermediate gradations of colour. It strikes me that these 
obvious facts might be turned to good account by the planter, 
whether his chief object in planting be profit or ornament. If 
there be any truth in the received opinion, that, ‘of trees of the 
same species, those which expand their leaves last in the spring, 
and shed them last in the autumn, afford the best timber,” it 
would surely be worth any one’s while, who plants for profit, to 
select his oaks accordingly. Again, in mere ornamental planting, 
much advantage might result from paying attention to the dif- 
ferent tints exhibited by the foliage, respectively, both in spring 
and autumn. It is easy to conceive the happy effect which 
might be produced either by harmoniously grouping together 
individuals of the same hues in their early foliage, or by judi- 
ciously contrasting those of different ones. A whole grove or 
avenue might be formed, which, at that most interesting season of 
the year, when the leaves are yet tender, should display, through- 
out its entire extent, a regular series of graduated tints, or any 
other combination of colour, according to the taste or fancy of 
the planter; and a corresponding effect would, if I mistake not, 
be visible also in the autumn. In one part of the park or plea- 
sure-ground it may be desirable that a particular spot should be 
occupied by oaks which come into leaf the earliest of their 
kind ; while, in another, it may be no less an object to introduce 
such as retain their leaves to the latest period in the autumn. 
Even in the case of single trees, it may, according to circum- 
stances, be of some importance to the landscape, whether the one 
selected for a particular situation be early or late in its period of 
leafing, of one colour or another. Innumerable, in short, are 
the arrangements, the agreeable contrasts and combinations, 
which might be formed by paying attention to the above cir- 
cumstances. I do not pretend to lay down precise rules for the 
guidance of the planter; I merely throw out a few hints, in the 
hope of drawing attention to an interesting subject, which appears 
to me to have been more neglected than it deserves.* With 
most planters, and, I believe I may say, with all nurserymen, 
oaks are oaks, and that is all: no regard whatever is had to the 
individual varieties of our native oak, unless, indeed, these be of 


* See Whately’s Observations on Modern Gardening, sect. xiii., for general 
rules as to the massing and disposition of the different tints of foliage. 


202 Planting for Picturesque Effect, 


a very marked and unusual character. Now, if there were a 
call, on the part of purchasers, for the early or the late leafing 
varieties, or for those of this or that particular tint or form of 
foliage, nurserymen would soon learn to sort their oaks accord- 
ingly, in order to meet the demand of their customers; or 
planters, by sowing the acorns and raising their own oaks, 
might adopt the same method themselves. Nothing could be 
easier than to do this; for the oak is a tree which developes the 
peculiar characters which I have above alluded to, at a very early 
stage of its existence; even the very first season it springs from 
the acorn, as will be obvious to any one who will but examine a 
seed-bed when the young trees are first coming up in the spring. 
There he will see some in broad foliage, while others are only 
just emerging above the ground. very variation of colour, 
also, will be perceptible, as much as in trees of mature age ; 
and these peculiarities, it is to be observed, are constant in the 
individuals, and are retained throughout life: as is the infant 
seedling, in regard to its period of leafing, and the tints of its 
foliage, so is the full-grown oak. Even extreme old age is not 
found to retard the expanding of the leaves, or to affect their 
colour. I consider a bed of seedling oaks, exhibiting, as it does, 
such diversity of colour and of form in the foliage, a most 
interesting object for contemplation; and I have sometimes 
fancied that even more of the future characters of the mature 
tree, such as its propensity to run tall or short in the stem, 
spreading in the limbs, and the general style and figure of the 
head and branches, might almost be predicted at this early 
period: but this, perhaps, is mere idle speculation. 

I may add, that the same discrepance in the period of assum- 
ing and shedding the leaf is observable in other trees besides the 
oak, especially in the horsechestnut, the beech, and the ash. 

Aliesley Rectory, Feb. 21. 1834. W. T. Bre. 


Art. V. On producing Picturesque Effect in Plantations, as well as 
Shelter and Profit. By Mr. T. RurGeEr. 


Peruaps there is no country in the world that can compete 
with our own, in offering to the eye of the traveller such a diver- 
sity of scenery, in connection with the comforts of civilisation. 
We may not be able to boast of so much highly picturesque 
and truly sublime scenery as some of our Continental neighbours ; 
yet the almost constant variety of hill and dale, and wood and 
water; extensive parks, with the mansions of noblemen attached ; 
numerous villas, adorned with lawns and shrubberies ; together 
with the neat cottages, verdant meadows, and fields skirted with 


as well as for Shelter and Profit. 203 


stately trees, &c., which appear in quick succession to the view 
throughout our cultivated districts, cannot but be felt and ad- 
mired by all who have a taste for refinement; and I think that, 
in scenery of this description, our own country vies with any 
other in the world. But, while nature has been thus profuse in 
her gifts to some districts, by affording facilities for embellish- 
ment, she has been less so in others. Hence we have also our 
widely extended and barren heaths, with plains, so called, of 
vast extent, furnishing scarcely a shrub, or tree, to attract 
the notice of the inquisitive traveller, or to afford shelter or 
shade to man or beast. ‘These, half a century ago, when tra- 
velling could not be so expeditiously effected as at the present, 
must have acted, for many hours in succession, as a dead weight 
on the minds of such as were the admirers of beautiful scenery. 
In some districts, however, something has been done towards 
removing this unvaried and dreary aspect by planting; which, 
if prosecuted with the spirit that it deserves, will, in a few years, 
add much beauty to those parts of our country which are at 
present so dreary and uninteresting. [rom the extension of the 
practice of planting, pecuniary advantages will also be derived, 
by affording, not only shelter to the flocks and herds feeding on 
the plains, but, also, by giving to the proprietors of such districts 
a prospect of being ultimately remunerated with a good per- 
centage for property expended in the planting. In the mean 
time, it may be observed, that utility ought not to be taken solely 
into the account, by those who feel inclined, and have the means 
in their power, to enrich the more dreary parts of our country 
with “ living green.” Sound judgment and good taste should 
also be exercised, to combine embellishment with utility, and 
then, in all such projected improvements, much of beauty would 
be the result, as well as much of advantage. 

In travelling, a few weeks ago, through a part of Suffolk, 
namely, between Newmarket and Thetford, I was particularly 
struck with the singular appearance of a number of straight un- 
connected belts of trees, of nearly equal width, planted in various 
directions on the open lands in that district, some of which were 
of great length; the object of these, I found, was to afford 
shelter to the stock grazing there. ‘The principle, as such, I 
admitted at once to be good; I could not help, however, con- 
demning the mode of carrying it into effect. Had these belts 
been disposed of advantageously, in curves of unequal width, and 
clumps been here and there introduced with judgment, much of 
the picturesque might have been accomplished, with an equal 
degree of utility; and, instead of presenting such a stiff uni- 
formity, with scarcely any apparent design, parklike appearances 
might have been gained, which, to the eye of the tourist, would 
haye been interesting, particularly as a large portion of the road 


204: Sketch of a Flower-Garden, 


is straight, being, in some instances, from two to four miles in 
length, without the least turn; a prospect which must be at all 
times tedious to the traveller, and especially so when passing 
over an open country. 

If these remarks should be permitted to meet the public eye 
through the medium of your Magazine, and be deemed worthy 
of consideration by any of your readers, the end I have in view 
will be answered; namely, that of suggesting that wherever plant- 
ing is carried on with a view to utility, it ought also to be 
accompanied with taste. ‘Thus giving as much beauty to the 
scenery as there may be a capability of producing, according to 
local advantages or disadvantages, of whatever nature they may 
be. To accomplish this, a person of accredited judgment might 
be employed with advantage. T. Rurcer. 

Shortgrove, Essex, Nov. 1833. 


Art. VI. A Sketch of a Flower-Garden, with Remarks. 
By Mr. T. RutGer. 


SHOULD you conceive the accompanying sketch (fg. 14.) for 
a flower-garden worth a place in your Magazine, it is at your 
service. A section, viz. one half of it, was laid down, some years 
since, at Woolmers, Herts, in front of a green-house which was 
standing on a lawn. ‘The design was by Mr. Lewis Kennedy, 
and it was at that time much admired. 

Strictly geometrical flower-gardens, on a small scale, may, per- 
haps, but in few instances, be deemed desirable by gardeners ; as 
they are generally composed of narrow gravel walks, box edgings, 
portions of grass dotted with shrubs, &c., in connection with the 
clumps, which occasion a vast deal of labour to keep them neat 
and clean. This, however, is essentially necessary to render them 
attractive, and to afford pleasure to their owners. Notwithstand- 
ing these objections, geometrical gardens are frequently desired, 
particularly by ladies, whose recreations partly consist in viewing 
and admiring the beauties of Flora. 

The selection of a proper site for a garden of this description 
should be the first thing attended to: a short and convenient 
distance from the mansion is desirable; and if on a level all the 
better. If within the precincts of the kitchen-garden, and walled 
round, of course a fence is unnecessary; but, if placed in the 
shrubbery, a wire, or some other fence, will be requisite to keep 
out rabbits and other vermin. I prefer the shrubbery, or pleasure- 
ground, as being, in my opinion, more appropriate, than to have 
the flower-garden attached to the kitchen-garden. From the 
principal walk, as near the house as convenient, a branch walk 


with Remarks. 205 


14 —eeetgen 


sik AOS, 
Lp “( a — 


° 
% ofl 
PO of Al 
iF 
9; 
©4 On 4 
Ca 
fo 
©. 2) Ait 
‘ t 
a Oo; 
Or 
a > _% 
hee, N 
° 
i hes 
} 
f 


4 


= (an i si 


—77 42 6 9 


=——, 
i-% 


pt 
a nnn pas 
1 4 \ bina XC) : 
Ea HA e 
caill ! ta u } sy Wa he \ C) 
ait | it | ‘ AM 4 i Lok A 
H {I~ ! i a Ny i "tyr Soo 
ooo ery y omen 1 
nal vel 1 HY Bee \ 
1 el a | fh "1 , "feds 
bw ve i My MMW tgs --segy i 
UH at HD Wy 12 a5 14 
Bioows i] [elolos mf 


SS eh MS 
ie — ——j 
= 
=i 
I 

“Ss 


acc 
oy 

Noo, 
\ 


° 
. On 
oY Jee 
mee’ Lio hy SOO 
iy Ro Vg 
jar 8 
ry Neo 
yee ary ° 
4 


.. —= 
$= 
ae 
Na 

Ne 
%, 


- (7 
-00 4, 9 0% 
Te 

OOF) 2"o EY 

sy. a So 
° 


Se 


2 - 


aes “0h a ee Nee rs 
se & ci ae an i @ es 
Mal a eees 


ie on — i 
om a Moe De 


i0 5 0 10 20 30 40 50 
Ft ae ere 
a, Gravel walks, with box edgings where no grass, b, Rosaries, or for genes or for roses and 
georginas alternately. c, Clumps for small American We ss, dotted with shrubs ; 
1 


or pots with green-house plants, sunk in the ground. >, Flower- Dai 


206 Culture of Cape Ericas. 


should be made to lead off to a sufficient distance, so as to-admit 
of shrubs being planted round, to hide it from the view; and, 
after passing through, it may lead into the principal walk again. 
An arbour, or small reading-room, is almost indispensable, } par- 
ticularly when the garden is at a considerable distance from the 
house. 

A lawn in the front of a house should never be appropriated 
to this species of garden, as it will admit of nothing desirable, 
when compared with what it will destroy; besides, seclusion is 
necessary to render a flower-garden a desirable retreat. 

On the supposition that the accompanying sketch were to be 
laid down, an arbour or recess might be placed at either or 
both ends; and if the situation were convenient for water, with a 
little alteration, a fountain, or vase, with a small pond for gold 
and silver fish, might be placed in the centre. 

Shortgrove, Essex, Feb.11834. T. Ruteer. 


Art. VII. On planting Cape Ericas in the free Soil, and sheltering 
them with a sashed Frame. By Mr. Ropertson, Nurseryman, of 
Kilkenny. 


Few see ericas in their native perfection: stunted and im- 
poverished, a great proportion of those preserved in our green- 
houses must be rather considered as botanical specimens than as 
ornamental plants; and it requires no small amount of skill and 
attention (both which they unremittingly demand) to keep them 
alive. ‘To diminish this labour, and to enjoy ericas in greater 
perfection than is usually done, I constructed, some time since, 
a small frame for their reception ; and prepared a border within 
it, into which I turned the plants early last summer, in the hope 
of seeing them there display beauties to which I had before 
been a stranger. ‘This hope has been fully realised by their 
luxuriant growth; and by their vivid and abundant bloom, 
which has continued in beauty much longer than the ordinary 
term. Never having seen or read of any thing of the kind having 
been done before (though the idea is simple, and such as might 
naturally suggest itself [see I. 374., IX. 584.]), I have thought 
it advisable to give you a description of my frame, and of the 
manner in which I prepared the soil for the reception of the 
plants; though, it being merely an experimental attempt, I did 
not carry it to the extent which, [ am now convinced, it merits. 
The frame is a three-light one, each sash 3 ft. 6 in.; in front it 
is 9 in. deep; and, at the back, 4 ft. 6 in., though it should here 
have been 6 ft. high, as the heaths have already outgrown it. 
The border has, at bottom, 6 in. of loose stones, covered with 
6 in. of fine sifted rotten loam mixed with sand, good peat being 


Culture of Plants in Glass Cases. 207 


scarce here. Over this is a stratum of sandy peat, 16in. or 
18 in. deep. The sorts planted were, Erica ignéscens, cruénta, 
coccinea, Bowiedna, hybrida, caffra, vestita, cerinthoides, Pe- 
tiveridna, mammosa, Patersonédna, cylindrica, Ewerzana, vil- 
losa, longiflora, longifolia, Blétza (? bélla?, verticillata, ventri- 
cosa, and some others. During summer, the plants require 
frequent watering, all possible air on temperate days, and 
shading on scorching sunny ones. The shading may be effected 
_by a mat; and the ventilation by tilting up the glass at the 
ends, so as to produce a thorough current of air. In winter, 
the same attention to air is necessary, but no water should be 
given: the plants should be screened from rains ; and, of course, 
covered up, should severe frosts occur. In Ireland, however, we 
rarely have frosts to a degree which requires more protection 
than the glass will afford (p. 62.) ; and I am persuaded that a 
number of the Cape ericas are sufficiently hardy to stand-our 
winters in the openair. Some have with me, and I have planted 
out others on trial; but this they cannot be said to have had, 
' since, for these three years back, we have had no frost that would 
destroy a pelargonium. I have little doubt of ericas succeeding 
on the sea-coast, which is of a still milder temperament. ‘The 
situation that the frame was unavoidably placed in has not had 
an hour’s sun during the winter, yet not one plant has damped off. 
Kilkenny, Jan. 6. 1834. J. RoBerrson. 


Art. VIII. On growing Ferns and other Plants in Glass Cases, in the 
midst of the Smoke of London ; and on transplanting Plants from 
one Country to another, by similar Means. By N.B. Warp, Esq. 
F.L.S. 


_ I was accidentally led, about four or five years ago, to make 
some experiments on the growth of ferns, &c., in closely glazed 
vessels, from the following circumstance. I had buried the 
chrysalis of a sphinx in some moist mould in a large bottle 
covered with a lid. ‘The insect attained its perfect form in about 
a month, when I observed one or two minute specks of vegeta- 
tion upon the surface of the mould. Curious to observe the 
developement of plants in so confined a situation, I placed the 
bottle outside one of my windows with a northern aspect. ‘The 
plants proved to be one of Poa annua, and one of Nephrodium 
[Aspidium Swz.] Filix-mas. In this situation they lived for more 
than three years, during which time no fresh water was given to 
them, nor was the lid removed. ‘The fern produced four or five 
new fronds every year; and the Poa flowered the second year, 
but did not ripen its seeds. Both plants ultimately perished, 
from the admission of rain water, in consequence of the rusting 


208 Culture of Plants in Glass Cases. 


of the lid. I have repeated this experiment, with uniform suc- 
cess, upon more than sixty species of ferns belonging to the fol- 
lowing genera :— Asplénium, Aspidium, Adiantum, Biléchnum, 
Gheilenthes, DavAllza, Dicksénza, Doédza, Grammitis, Hymeno- 
phyllum, Lycopodium, Nephrodium, Niphdbolus, Polypédium, 
Ptéris, and Zrichomanes. Various other plants, vascular as 
well as cellular, and more particularly those which delight in 
humid situations, succeed as well as the ferns. Among others 
may be enumerated: — O'’xalis Acetosélla, Anemone nemorosa, 
Dentaria bulbitera, Paris quadrifolia, Verdénica montana, Listera 
(Neottia) Nidus avis, &c. ‘The method of proceeding is very 
simple. The ferns, &c., may be planted in boxes of any size or 
shape, furnished with glazed sides and a glazed lid. The bottom of 
the box should be filled with nearly equal portions of bog moss, 
vegetable mould, and sand; and the ferns, after planting, should 
be most copiously watered, and the superfluous water allowed to 
drain off through a plughole in the bottom of the box: the plug 
is then to be put in tight, the glazed lid applied, and no farther 
care is requisite than that of keeping the box in the light. In 
this way many plants will grow for years, without requiring any 
fresh supply of water. It is scarcely necessary to point out the 
advantages which this plan (subject to some modifications, ac- 
cording to the nature of the enclosed plants) offers to the horti- 
culturist, and to the physiological botanist. To the one, it 
furnishes a ready mode cf importing most plants, without risk, 
from the most distant regions of the globe; and, to the other, the 
opportunity of making more accurate experiments than have 
hitherto been practicable, on many important points connected 
with vegetable economy ; such as on the germination of seeds, and 
the developement of plants in various kinds of air and soil, &c.: 
but upon this part of my subject I need not here enlarge. ‘The 
numerous experiments I have already made have, T think, 
established one important fact, that the air of London, when 
freed from adventitious matter, is as fitted to support vegetable 
life as the air of the country. I cannot conclude this short 
account without expressing my warmest acknowledgments to the 
Messrs. Loddiges, who have at all times furnished me with every 
plant I required from their invaluable collection. 

Wellclose Square, London, N. B. Warp. 

March 6.1834. 


WE have before (p. 163.) suggested that miniature conservatories might be 
constructed and managed-in rooms, in the same manner as Mr. Wood con- 
structs and manages his glazed cases for ferns. A little farther consideration 
will convince any one, that even large green-houses and conservatories might 
be constructed in the smoky air of London, on the same principle ; and kept 
free from the grosser impurities of the atmosphere, by causing all the air which 
should enter them to filter through fine cloth. The purity of the air in living- 
rooms might also be increased by filtration. — Cond. 


Gardens of the Misses Garnier. 209 


Art. IX. Descriptive Notice of the Gardens of the Misses Garnier, 
at Wickham, near Fareham, in Hampshire; by the Conpuctor: 
with a Monthly Calendar of the Work done, and of the principal 
Flowers produced; by Mr. JamEs Moore, Gardener to the Misses 
Garnier. 


In the course of our tour, in the autumn of 1833, we called 
at the villa of the Misses Garnier, near Wickham, which has 
long been celebrated for its flower-garden; and, much as we 
had heard of it, from Mr. Page of Southampton, Mr. Young of 
Epsom, and other nurserymen and gardeners, it very far sur- 
passed our expectations. 

The grounds are flat, with no exterior advantages whatever, 
and therefore the merits of these gardens are entirely dependent 
onart. The walks and beds are laid out according to the ground 
plan (jig. 15.); the beds are most judiciously planted; and the 
order and keeping of the whole are of the very highest and most 
refined description. In this respect, the garden at Wickham be- 
longs to the same class as the gardens of'the Rev. Thomas Garnier, 
at Bishopstoke; of Mrs. Corrie, near Birmingham ; Mrs. Robert 
Phillips, near Cheadle; Lady Boughton, near Chester; Mrs. 
Starkey, at Bowness; and a few others. The first view of the 
garden of the Misses Garnier, when the door marked a in the 
plan (fig. 15.) was opened, which looks into it from the garden 
forming the entrance court, struck us with astonishment and 
delight ; the bold masses of brilliant-coloured flowers in the fore- 
ground, and, afterwards, the succession of masses of flowers, with 
their intervening glades of turf, extending to a considerable dis- 
tance, till the colours were almost lost in the boundary plantation, 
produced a landscape of the most brilliant kind. In walking 
round, we found the walks brimful of gravel, with the turf edging 
nowhere deeper than halfan inch. The beds, in some places, were 
planted in masses of one or two species or varieties; in others, 
by the different species of one genus; and, in some, by a miscel- 
laneous assemblage. ‘The plants were in all cases, except those of 
creepers and the kinds planted in masses, placed at such dis- 
tances from each other, as not to touch when in full growth and 
bloom, in consequence of which every individual plant was 
covered with flowers from the base to the summit; but the 
creepers were sufficiently close together to cover the whole of 
the beds with their foliage. Pelargoniums, China asters, stocks, 
and other plants intended to display masses of flower of one 
colour, were also planted so as to cover the entire bed. 

The woody plants consist of roses, climbers, and twiners, with 
rhododendrons, azaleas, and other American and _ peat-earth 
shrubs, and of the larger exotic shrubs and flowering trees. 
The roses are displayed in a rosary, in masses on the lawn, or 
singly as standards; the climbers cover trellised arches, or sup- 

Vou. X. — No, 50. P 


210 Gardens of the Misses Garnier, 


ports of trelliswork (fg. 16.), or of three or four iron rods, 
as shown in fig. 17.; the twiners run up poles ; the iow American 
shrubs are partly disposed in masses, and partly as single plants ; 
and the larger shrubs and ornamental trees are distributed along 
the margin of the garden, and also scattered throughout, as will 
appear by the details of the ground plan. From the drawing- 
room window at d, there is a vistato the trellised arch e, and 


———— 


RS OOZES oe 


=S— 


1. to 5. Herbaceous plants. 6. Perpetual roses. 7. and 8. Roses edged with pansies. 9. German 
stocks edged with pansies. 


10. Trellis enclosed by herbaceous borders. 11. Delphiniums and digitalises. 12. Calceolarias and 
potentillas edged with Viola cornuta. 13. and 14. Herbaceous plants. 15. Hollyhocks edged by 
various China roses. 16. Crotalaria élegans. 17. American plants, with C¥tisus elongatus 
in the centre. 18. Lobelia in sorts. 19. Collection of best pinks. 

20. American and large-growing shrubs, with tree roses forming vista to arch. 21. and 22. Hollies 
twined with honeysuckles and roses, and blended with flowering shrubs. 23. and 24. American 
and large-growing shrubs. 25. Pelargoniums. 26. Roses in the centre, with herbaceous 


plants in the two borders. 27. and 28. Large shrubs, hollies, &c. 29. American plants edged 
with Geranium sanguineum. 

80. to 33. Forest trees, evergreens, and shrubs. 34. Verbéna chameedrifolia, a bed of. 35, Salvia 
spléndens. 36. to 47. Forest trees, evergreens, and flowering shrubs. 48. Hollyhocks. © 49. to 
53. American shrubs, backed by hollies and honeysuckles, with trees behind, and broken to 
supply a view of the contiguous ground. 54, Rosary, comprehending a fine collection of roses, 
enclosed by evergreens, flowering shrubs, &c. 55. Collection of phloxes. 56. Scarlet arbutus. 
57. Leondtis Leontrus. 58. Tree rose. 59. Pedestal of Caprifdlium flexudsum. 

60. Rdsa bracteata, and caprifolium in sorts. 61. Daphne Dauphinz (D. hybrida), and Gaulthéria 
procimbens. 62. Andrémeda arborea. 63. Fachsia cénica, edged with Lobélza triquetra. 
64. Magndlia conspicua. 65. Sophora japinica var. pendula. 66. Cupréssus sempervirens. 
67. Lupinus mutabilis var. Cruckshankszanus. 68. Caprifolium, sorts of, over cross-shaped basket. 
69. Polygala latifolia. 

70. Yucca gloridsa. 71. Halimodéndron argénteum. 72. Hydrangea horténsis. 73. Petinia 
pheenicea. 74. Basket of Verbéna chamedrifolia. 75. Tripod basket of pelargoniums. 
76, Correa specidsa. 771. Yacca aloéfolia. 78. Magndla Soulangedna. 79. Hhododéndron 


at Wickham, near Fareham, Hampshire. 211 


another to an old oak tree at,f- The kitchen-garden is entered by 
the door marked 0 in the plan (fg. 15.); and there is a green-house 


Ss ie 


17 


catawbiénse. 80. Basket of plants in pots. 81. Cytisus purptreus, standard. 82. Kalmia 
latifolia. 83. Palitrus aculeatus. 84. Tree rose. 85. Photinia serrulata. 86. Schubértza 
Gisticha. 87. Brugmansia suaveolens. 88. Bérberis Aquifdlium. 89. Kélreutéria paniculata. 

90. C¥tisus elongatus. 91. Upright cypress. 92. Técoma capensis pyramidalis. 93. Tree rose. 
94. Ameldnchier Botryapium. 95. Fachsza arberea. 96. Magnolia tripétala. 97. Basket of 
pelargoniums. 98. Ligdstrum licidum. 99. Mimulus glutinodsus. 

100. Juniperus virginiana. 101. Crate*gus Azarolus. 102. Pxdnia Modtan papaveracea. 
103. Obelisk clothed with A"pios tuberdsa. 104. Tropz*olum tricoldrum. 105. Rhododéndron 
alta-clerénse. 106. KAlmia latifolia. 107. Periploca gre*ca. 108. Rhododéndron arboreum. 
109. Pxdnia Moitan. 110. Cupréssus sempervirens horizontalis. 111. Cross basket of Capri- 
folium gratum. 112. Rhododendron Smithz. 113. Chionanthus virginica. 114, Xan- 
théxylum ciava Héreulis. 115. Weeping ash. 116. Broussonétza papyrifera, 117. Cérasus 
nigra. 118. Large holly. 119. Vibarnum strictum. 

120. Hemlock spruce (Pinus canadénsis). 121. Holly. 122. Cedrus Libani. 123, Rhodo- 
déndron atropurptreum. 124. Gymnécladus canadénsis. 125. A’cer Psetdo-Platanus. 
126. Holly. 127. Pinus Cémbra. 128. A’rbutus procéra. 129, Vibt’rnum licidum. 

130. Phérmium ténax. 131. Camellia, sorts of. 132. Fuchsia grandiflora. 133, Basket of 
Russian stocks. 134. Rdsa Boursatiltiz, pedestal. 135. Aralia spindsa. 136, Tilia europz*a. 
137. Atragéne austriaca, pedestal. 138. A*bies excélsa. 139. Rhododéndron pénticum. 

140. Piptanthus nepalénsis. 141. Hydrangea horténsis. 142. Tree rose. 143. Rhododéndron 
maximum. 144. Ilex myrtifolia. 145. Pednia Mottan. 146. Sophora japénica péndula, 
147, Eriobétrya japénica. 148. Tree rose. 149. Magndléa glatca. 

150. Caragina frutéscens. 151, Magndlia grandiflora. 152. Tree rose. 153. Maclira aurantiaca, 
154. Tree rose. 155. Catalpa syringefdlia. 156. Noisette rose. 157, Latrus nébilis, with 
georginas, 158. Six tree roses, with herbaceous plants ; evergreens near the house. 159. Hollies, 
honeysuckles, China roses, herbaceous plants in front. 160. Seats. 161. Trellised arches, 


P 2 


212 Gardens of the Misses Garnier : — 


= —_= 
(eee 


I li tl wu 


ah 


c, besides pits, frames, &c.; and a reserve garden at g, for 
keeping up a stock of herbaceous plants, roses, &c., for the lawn 
or flower-garden. ‘The trees on the walls of the kitchen-garden 
are trained with the greatest neatness, and completely cover 
the wall from the ground to the coping; the wall borders were, 
when we saw them, very slightly cropped, and in some places 
not cropped at all. Every part was in the best order; and, 
indeed, there was an appearance of freshness, health, and vigour, 
in all the gardens and scenery, which, joined to the fineness of 
the day, completed the effect of their gaiety and beauty. 

There are a few buildings, or artificial ornaments, in these 
grounds, of a simple rustic description, such as the seat 


formed of moss and hazel rods (jig. 19.); trellised arches for 
climbers (jigs. 20. and 21.); rustic vases (fig. 18.) ; and iron rods 
for roses and other slender-growing shrubs. (jigs. 16. and 17.) 


MONTHLY CALENDAR OF THE FLOWER-GARDEN. 


January, 1833.— During this month there is but little doing in the flower- 
garden. The gravel walks are kept clear of weeds, and neatly rolled, and the 
turf is swept once a week, or oftener, as it may require. Honeysuckles, 
clematises, and other deciduous climbing plants, are now pruned and tied. If 
the weather is mild and dry, the coverings are removed from the half-hardy and 
green-house plants which have been kept out during the winter, to prevent 
them from damping off; it is necessary, however, to replace the coverings 
carefully before the sun is off the plants. Slugs must be destroyed when the 
weather is mild, by hand-picking or lime water ; the latter method I find the 
most effectual, being careful to let it settle well before using it, otherwise it 
leaves a whiteness on the leaves of the plants. 


Floricultural Calendar. 218 


The productions of the flower-garden at this season are not numerous ; its 
beauty depending chiefly on the green turf and evergreens, among which the 
laurustinus is one of the most conspicuous, being now in full flower. Cydonia 
japénica, common China roses, and the winter aconites, are also now in 
bloom; and in mild seasons Neapolitan violets, Anemone coronaria, A. hor- 
ténsis flore pléno, Aubriétia hesperidiflora, Daphne collina, and neapolitana, 
Aletris airea, white queen stocks, and a few varieties of heartsease. 

February. — We now begin to be more busy in the flower-garden. The 
roses are pruned, except the evergreen varieties; and the borders are well 
dressed with strong stable manure, which is dug in a spade deep. Young 
plants are put in to fill up any vacancy. Old plants that are become very 
luxuriant are taken up, with as much earth as will adhere to their roots, and 
replanted. This checks their growth, and causes them to produce less wood 
and finer flowers. A good heap of compost is now prepared, in which the 
more delicate kinds of half-hardy and green-house plants are to be planted in 
May and June. Ranunculus roots are now planted. The turf and gravel walks 
and the destroying of slugs, require to be attended to as in the last month. 

We have but few flowers to boast of during this month, and what we have are 
chiefly Cydonia japonica, laurustinus, daphnes, and a few common China and 
Noisette roses. These roses flower nearly all the year in Miss Garnier’s garden, 
and, contrasted with the dark green foliage of the common bhollies, against 
which they are planted, have a beautiful effect ; flowering among the branches 
to the height of twenty feet; and I think it is owing to their being protected 
by these hollies that they afford flowers during the winter months. 

March. — About the beginning of this month, I proceed to pot the geor- 
ginas, and place them in a cold frame or pit. German stocks and asters, and 
other tender annuals, are now sown on a slight hotbed. Lobeéléa speciosa 
and L. fulgens are potted and placed on a frame in a gentle heat. The seed 
of georginas must be sown in large pans, and likewise placed on a gentle heat. 
The seeds of Nicotiana fragrans, Lobelia bicolor and gracilis, and other 
green-house plants intended for the open borders, are also sown during this 
month. The edgings of the gravel walks are now cut with the edging-iron : 
I mention the edging-iron more particularly, as this is the only time in the 
year that I cut the edges with it, as I always cut them after, throughout, with 
shears. The gravel is turned over, and fresh gravel added, filling the walks 
so full as not to allow the edges to be more than half an inch in depth. The 
turf is now repaired where it has been destroyed by the drip of trees or 
any other cause; and pots of hyacinths and tulips are plunged mto the bor- 
ders, to produce flowers in April and May. The flower-garden is now 
beginning to be more gay. The daphnes and cydonia still continue in bloom. 
Polyanthuses, hepaticas, single and double crocuses, periwinkle, Cyclamen 
coum, Saxifraga oppositifolia, Rhododéndron datricum var., and R. datricum 
var. atrovirens, are now in bloom. 

April. — At the beginning of this month the turf is swept, rolled, and 
mowed; the flower borders are edged, carefully stirred up, and broken as fine 
as can be with the garden prong: I defer using the rake until next month. 
Seeds of hardy annuals are now sown in the open borders. The coverings of 
moss, coal ashes, &c., are partially removed from the half-hardy and green- 
house plants. Caprifolium flexudsum, Jasminum revolutum, and all the 
varieties of evergreen roses, are now pruned and trained. Seedling georginas, 
which were sown last month, are now pricked out on a slight hotbed, covered 
at night with mats. Cuttings of Verbéna chameedrifolia, pulchélla, Lamberti, 
&c., Salvia spléndens, coccinea, involucrata, angustifolia, cardinalis, and Gra- 
ham, are now planted on a slight hotbed under hand-glasses, to produce 
plants for turning into the open borders in June. Heartseases are propagated 
by cuttings during this month; seeds of hollyhocks are sown, and tuberoses 
potted for late flowering in the open borders. The box edgings are also cut 

_down during this month. 
The following shrubs and herbaceous plants, which are in bloom, are, Mag- 
P 3 


214 Gardens of the Misses Garnier : — 


nolia conspfcua, Ribes sanguineum, Andrémeda dealbata, O’robus vernus, 
Erythronium déns canis, Z‘ris vérna and pérsica; Phlox subulata, carolina, 
divaricata, setacea, nivalis, and vérna; Verdnica vérna, Gentidna vérna, Sol-+ 
danélla alpina, Zychnis alpina, Sanguinaria canadénsis, Polemonium réptans, 
Claytonia virginica, fritillarias, tulips, and hyacinths, narcissuses, double poly- 
anthus, double wallflowers, &c. 

May.— During this month the flower-garden takes up my whole time and 
attention; which you areno doubt well aware that such a garden as this must 
do, if proper attention be paid to it. Iam, however, a real lover of plants 
myself, and I am proud te say I am supported and encouraged by my em- 
ployers in every respect, which makes the arduous task I have to perform a 
source of delight. I now take away the remaining part of the coverings from 
the half-hardy and green-house plants, adding fresh soil to such as are standing 
on turf. The borders are now raked down, but not broken very fine, as the 
borders not only look better for not being raked so very smooth, but the 
plants thrive better, and the soil keeps more open and healthy. F now sow 
on a warm border, or slight hotbed, a succession of annual flowers, such as 
German asters, German stocks, clarkias, cenotheras, &c. Those sown in 
March are now planted out, and the cuttings of salvias, verbenas, &c., being 
now sufficiently rooted, are potted. off, to strengthen them for final transplant- 
ing next month. Sweet peas are now sown for late flowering. The roses are 
carefully examined twice or thrice during this month, to destroy a little brown 
grub [that of one of the Yenthredinide *], which infests them at this season ; 
the most effectual method of destroying which is by picking them off. The 
borders of heartsease, &c., are now watered, late in the evening, with clear lime 
water, which I have found to be an excellent method of preserving the flowers 
from the depredations of slugs and other insects. Lobélia speciésa and fal- 
gens are planted together in a bed. The flower stems of phloxes and many 
other strong-growing herbaceous plants, are thinned out, cutting away about a 
third part, as I have noticed that the plants which have been thinned 


* It is only the enthusiastic gardener who can fully feel the evil of this 
insect’s ravages. To have manured, dug, planted, pruned, and taken suckers 
away from one’s rose bushes in beds, and, as they sprout in spring, to be 
painting in imagination the rich, the brilliant display of their variedly beautiful 
blossoms in July ; and, in the midst of this anticipation, to be compelled to 
perceive that hidden enemies are working a frustration of your exulting hopes, 
is annoying, vexing, saddening, chagrining, mortifying, &e. The enemies are 
the caterpillars (grubs, maggots, or larva) of, I believe, one of the sawfly tribe 
(Tenthredinidz ), which, when full grown, just previously to their changing into 
the pupa state, are about half an inch long, about as thick as a crow’s quill, 
usually brown in the body, sometimes rather glaucous, with the head black. 
Before, however, any one of them has attained this state, it has done a world 
of mischief ; has eaten into, through, and out of, possibly, and not very impro- 
bably, half a dozen “ roses in the bud.”’ The caterpillars are quite minute at 
first, and begin to eat and do mischief before the sprouting shoot, in which the 
embryo rosebuds are, has attained more than half its length. While the shoot is 
lengthening, the caterpillar is feeding unremittingly (except during the changings 
of its skin); and, by the time that the shoot has become developed, and the rose- 
buds it bears obvious, one, two, several perhaps, sometimes all, of the buds in 
a cluster, are found incapacitated from blooming by the ravages effected within 
them, and sometimes down their peduncles, by the caterpillars mentioned. To 
what species of insect does it belong? Does it proceed from eggs deposited 
by the parent fly upon the branches of the rose bush in the autumn preceding ? 
T have met with the caterpillars of the rose-eating insect by the middle of April. 
T once found a minute caterpillar, not very dissimilar, inside the bursting bud 
of a species of willow; and another, still more like it, on the common honey- 
suckle. —J. D. 


Floricultural Calendar. 215 


always produce the finest flowers. The turf is now mown once a week, and 
the gravel is attended to as in the preceding months. Of all the flowers which 
adorn the garden during this month, those of the Ponta Mottan and Moiitan 
papaveracea are the most showy; but there is also now in bloom Magnolia 
Soulangedna, and M. acuminata. Azalea indica alba and purptrea (which in 
this garden have survived the winter for the last four years, only protected by 
a slight covering of furze) are now beginning to expand their beautiful 
bloom; also Lédum latifolium, Kalmia glatca, Caragana frutéscens, Robinia 
hispida, Halésia tetraptera, Vaccinium stamineum, Mahonia fascicularis and 
Aquifolium, and R2bes missouriénse. Of the herbaceous plants that flower during 
this month, the following are the most showy : — (‘ris pumila, Veronica gen- 
tianoides and répens, Gentidna acatlis and alpina, Erpétion reniformis, Cam- 
panula punctata, Erythre‘a aggregita, Trillium grandiflorum, Gnothera 
pumila, Saponaria ocymoides, O’xalis flava and floribunda, Potentilla rupés- 
tris; Aquilégia sibirica, grandiflora, and canadénsis; Pentstémon campanulatus, 
Erddium romanum, Trifolium uniflorum, Calceolaria rugosa, Asphddelus albus, 
Adyséton saxatile, @/nothéra Lindleyana and bifrons, Clarkza pulchélla, Schi- 
zanthus pinnatus (the annuals having been sown in September, and kept in 
a frame during winter), and heartsease in almost endless variety. 

June. — The first object of my care, at the beginning of this month, is the 
rosary, which [ carefully examine, in order to destroy any grubs that may yet 
remain; and also the green fly (A‘phis) which infests the roses at this season, 
which is easily killed with tobacco water. JI put half a pound of the best shag 
tobacco to a gallon of hot water, and as soon as the infusion has become cold, 
I dip all the buds and infested parts of the young shoots into it, letting them 
remain afew seconds in the water. If they are very much infested, I go over 
them a second time. After this I wash them with clean water; and I am 
amply rewarded for my trouble with clean, beautiful, well-blown flowers. I 
now plant out georginas, mostly on borders by themselves, from 4 ft. to 5 ft. 
apart each way. By planting them at this distance asunder, and growing 
them with single stems, they produce larger flowers, and do not attain more 
than two thirds of the height they usually reach when planted only two or three 
feet asunder. I now plant out in a bed by themselves all the varieties of cal- 
ceolarias, which have been forwarded for this purpose in a frame. Nothing 
can exceed the beauty of a bed of this beautiful tribe of plants. The follow- 
ing green-house shrubs are now planted in the turf: — Acacia lophantha and 
dealbata; Fuchsia cénica, gracilis, arborea, and /ycidides; Mimulus gluti- 
nosus, Corrze‘a speciosa, Lavatera triloba, Othdnna [?] septémfida, Lupinus 
mutabilis var. Cruckshankidnus, Boronia denticulata, Leonotis Leontrus, 
Humec élegans, and Polygala latifolia. I also place on the turf baskets of 
pelargoniums, ixias, and sparaxises, German stocks, Schizanthus Hodkeri, 
and Verbéna chameedrifolia. In the borders are planted all the dwarf sorts of 
fuchsias and cinerarias, pelargoniums, teucriums, cistuses, E’pacris grandi- 
flora, Délichos ligndsus, escallionias, arctotises, Sutherlandza frutéscens, 
Genista canariénsis, heliotropiums, &c. Young cuttings of sweet-scented 
and other China roses are planted in a shady border under hand-glasses. 
I prefer this month to any other for striking roses, as the cuttings soon form 
roots, and most of them will flower in autumn. Tuberoses are now planted 
in the rosary; and these, with the perpetual-flowering roses, keep up a con- 
tinual bloom in this part of the garden till October. The productions of the 
flower-garden during this month are numerous and beautiful. The azaleas, 
kalmias, rhododendrons, and some species of Andrémeda, are now in full 
bloom. The fragrance of the azaleas, together with that of a bed of pinks of 
about thirty varieties, German stocks, honeysuckles, &c., quite perfumes the 
garden. In this month we have also in bloom the beautiful Wistarza Con- 
sequana, Hovea Céls?, Sutherlandia frutéscens, Arctotis auréola, Phldx ovata, 
amoe‘na, and réptans; Arthropodium paniculatum, Arnopogon Dalechampz, 
Coronilla montana, Lupinus polyphyllus and polyphyllus albus; O’robus 
fathyroides, Cineraria cruénta and alba, A’ster alpinus, Lychnis fulgens, Po- 

p 4 


216 Gardens of the Misses Garnier : — 


tentilla Hopwoodidna and formésa, Papaver bracteatum and orientale, Cistus 
vaginatus and crispus, Helianthemum formdsum, Pzednia Reevesii, albiflora, albi- 
flora Hime, albiflora fragrans, &c.; Delphinium exaltatum, Trodlius asiaticus 
and intermédius, Pentstémon Scoileri and pubéscens, Verbena pulchélla and 
Aublétia, Hrinus /ychnideus, Lubinia atropurptrea, E’pacris grandiflora, Petunia 
nyctaginiflora, gigantéa, and phoenicea; Nierembérgia gracilis, Ramdénda py- 
renaica, Dodecatheon Meddia, Hakea acicularis, Watsonia falgida, Gladiolus 
byzantinus, Salvia angustifolia and cardinalis, Alonsoa intermedia, Corrze‘a spe- 
ciosa; GZnothéra speciosa, cheiranthifolia, and acatlis ; Fichsia gracilis, conica, 
globésa, microphylla, coccinea, /ycidides, and microphylla grandiflora; Ther- 
mépsis fabacea; I‘ris xiphidides, versicolor, variegata, cristata, &c.; Verdnica 
caucasica and latifolia, Czackia Liliastrum, Scilla peruviana, A’llium flavum, 
Hemerocallis flava, Fankia ovata, Zephyranthes grandiflora, Linum trigynum 
and flavum, R2bes specidsum, Lobélia lutea, dellidifolia, caerulea, and bicolor ; 
Campanula ptmila and pilla, Aquilégia glandulosa, Magnolia cordata and 
acuminata. 

July. — The flower borders are now cleared from weeds where any appear, 
and raked over ; and the stems of all the plants that are past flowering are 
cutaway. I find that many kinds of herbaceous plants, if cut down as soon as 
the first bloom is past, will shoot up a second time, and produce some good 
spikes of flowers in September. The rosary, which consists of nearly 200 
varieties of roses, is now in high beauty. I look them over about twice a 
week, and cut away every flower that is overblown. The borders are also 
raked over, to give the whole a neat appearance. The baskets of ixias, spa- 
raxises, and lapeyrousias being now past blooming, the pots which they 
were in are taken out, and the baskets refilled with German stocks, pelar- 
goniums, &c., which continue in bloom until October. The annual flowers, 
sown in May for succession, are now planted cut. Cuttings of fuchsias, 
calceolarias, linums, anagallises, pelargoniums, and many other half-hardy 
and green-house plants, are now planted in a shady border under hand- 
glasses. The turf and gravel walks, edges, &c., are attended to as in the 
preceding months. The large hollies in the shrubberies, which grow very 
luxuriantly here, now present a beautiful appearance, being covered with roses 
from the bottom to the very top. The sorts are, the common and pale blush 
China, Noisette, bengalénsis, scandens, Madame d’Arblay, burnet-leaved, 
Single Macartney, the Dundee rambler, Boursailti, and Rosa ruga. The 
standard roses, which are situated on the turf, also have roses of the perpetual- 
flowering kinds planted against their stems, which takes off that stiff appear- 
ance which the naked stem of a tree rose always presents. The shrubs and 
herbaceous plants which flower here during this month are very numerous. 
The following are the most rare and beautiful kinds : — Echinacea hetero- 
phylla; Gentidna crinita, septémfida, lutea, and cruciata; Lilium candidum, 
longiflorum, japonicum, bulbiferum, spectabile, concolor, &c.; Vallota pur- 
ptrea, Habranthus robastus; Alstroeméria Simsd, Hookeri, Pelegrina, and 
Pelegrina alba; Asclépias carndsa and pilchra, Phyteuma orbiculare and 
hemisphe‘ricum, Lobélia pubéscens, caerulea, colorata, senecioides, mucro- 
nata, gracilis, &c.; Campanula speciosa, carpathica, nitida, pyramidalis, aggre- 
gata, azurea, &c. &c.; Wahlenbérgia grandiflora, Polemonium ceruleum, 
certleum flore albo, and gracile; Primula farindsa, Anchusa paniculata and 
ochroletca, Marica ceertilea, Cypélla Herbérti; Gladiolus Colvilli, natalénsis, and 
blandus; Salvia Graham?, chameedrydides, &c.; Commelina tuberdsa, Schizan- 
thus rettsus, Rhéxia virginica, @’notheéra glatca, Fraser?, and triloba; Calan- 
drinia grandiflora, Baptisia australis; Dianthus Fischer2, latifolius, and his- 
panicus; Silene régia and compacta, O’xalis Déppez, Lychnis vespertina flore 
pléno and flds cuculi; Potentilla americana, Russelliana, &c.; Geum cocci- 
neum, majus, &c.; Dryas octopétala; Delphinium élegans, sinénse, grandi- 
florum, &c.; Aconitum variegatum, Haller/, and albidum; Dracocéphalum 
altaiénse, argunénse, and roseum ; Streptocarpus Réx#; Pentstémon pulchéllus, 
Miller, ovatus, roseus, vendstus, atropurpureus, &c.; Verbéna chameedrifolia, 


Floricultural Calendar. OH Ur 


Lambérti, venosa, &c.; Maurandya Barclayana, semperflorens, and a new seed- 
ling of a pale lilac purple colour ; Mimulus ringens, rivularis, and variegatus ; 
Geranium lancastriénse, sibiricum, sanguineum, and Wallichianwm ; Lupinus 
perénnis, &c.; Senécio élegans, white and red double-flowered; Pascalia 
virginica [? Helianthus difftisus], Centrocérpha chrysomela, Gazania rigens, 
Cypripedium spectabile ; Calceolaria bicolor, Atkins¢dna, péndula, corymbosa, 
Hopeana, epsoménsis, angustifolia, integrifolia, arachnoidea, plantaginea, and 
many seedling varieties; Linaria alpina and tristis, Bouvardia triphylla, with 
some varieties of phloxes, veronicas, sisyrinchums, saxifrages, annual ceno- 
theras, clarkias, silenes, marigolds, &c. &c. 

August. — The edgings of box are now neatly cut, and the flower-borders 
are weeded and cleaned, cutting away all the stems of herbaceous plants that 
are past flowering, and filling up every vacancy by plunging in pots of Lobelia 
falgens, Thunbérgia alata, mesembryanthemums, hybrid calceolarias, and 
others, Schizanthus rettsus, &c., which have been potted and grown for this 
purpose. Under this system of management, this garden is kept in full 
beauty throughout the summer. The pinks, being now past blooming, except 
four or five kinds that continue in flower till October, I plant out between 
them a quantity of German stocks, which were sown in June and potted for 
this purpose. These soon become strong plants, and flower beautifully, until 
destroyed by frost. The evergreens in the shrubberies are now pruned so 
that each plant may stand separate. Gathering seeds is also attended to 
every fine day. The flower-garden is now more beautiful than in any other 
month of the year. The georginas are in full bloom, consisting of more 
than a hundred varieties. The hollyhocks are also in full flower: some 
are planted in beds in the centre of the garden, others among the shrubs, 
which, towering up over the evergreens, are grand beyond description, some 
of them having attained the height of 17 ft. To grow them to this height, at 
the season for planting I dig a hole for each plant 2 ft. deep, and put in three 
or four shovelfuls of strong stable manure. There are now in flower in 
this garden forty-six double varieties of these beautiful flowers; thirty-four 
of which I have raised from seed myself within the last four years. The 
principal bloom of roses is now past; yet there is still a good show of 
the perpetual-flowering kinds, such as the yellow Noisette, odorata, flavés- 
cens, semperflorens, Barclaydna, indica alba, purpurea, Fraseridna, and, that 
most valuable of roses, the crimson perpetual. The following shrubs and 
herbaceous plants are in flower : — Ceanothus azureus; Lobélia fulgens, spe- 
closa, cardinalis, &c.; Asclépias tuberdsa and nivea, Eryngium maritimum, 
Kalosanthes coccinea and odoratissima; Campanula fragilis, persiczefolia 
flore pléno and flore albo pléno, rhombofdea, urticeefolia, Trachelium, lactiflora, 
&c.; Gentidna asclepiadea, Pneumonanthe, Saponaria, &c.; Lilium cana- 
dénse, Ipomee‘a coccinea, Spigélia marilandica, Verbascum phceniceum, Ly- 
simachia Hphémerum and verticillata, Nolana grandiflora, Grevillea rosmarini- 
folia, Gladiolus floribindus flore albo; Salvia spléndens, involucrata, coccinea, 
falgens, bicolor, bracteata, chamedrydides, and violacea; Cnothera mis- 
souriénsis, longiflora, and ¢araxacifolia ; Epilobium Haller: and angustifolium, 
Eutaxia myrtifolia; Andrémeda pulverulénta, speciosa, and poliifolia; Sapo- 
naria caldbrica, Dianthus arbiscula, Lychnis coronata, Lythrum difftisum, 
Mesembryanthemum spectabile, &c. &c.; Macrotys racemosa, Argemone 
grandiflora, &c.; Cistus salvieefolius, créticus, &c.; Helianthemum formdsum, 
Clématis flérida and flére pléno, Phlomis tuberdsa, Physostégia specidsa, 
TLécoma capénsis ; Salpigldéssis, many varieties ; Pentstémon speciosus, Richard- 
soni, Digitalis, &c.; Chelone glabra, Thunbérgza alata; Digitalis ambigua, 
lanata, ferruginea, falva, and purpurea alba; Fachsia multiflora, virgata, &c. ; 
Tigridia pavonia and conchiflora, Eroddium Gusséni, Amérpha Lewis; Lupinus 
mutabilis, mutabilis var. Cruckshanksidnus, arboreus, perénnis, &c.; O’robus 
Fischeri, Polygala latifolia, A\pios tuberdsa, Coronilla ibérica, Lathyrus 
grandiflorus and tuberdsus, Délichos ligndsus, Anagallis africana and Monell: 
erandiflora, Catananche ceerulea and czertlea bicolor; Lidfris spicata, pumila, 


218 Gardens of the Misses Garnier : — 


spheerdidea, and intermédia; Centrocarpha hirta major, Arctotis grandiflora, 
&c.; Veratrum nigrum ; and the following kinds of the genus Phléx, — Thomp- 
soni, paniculata, p. alba, and p. grandis, acuminata, odorata, variegata, ma- 
culata, excélsa, triflora, tardiflora, corymbosa, Wheéleri, refléxa, americana, 
carnea, suavéolens, glabérrima, Listonidna, amee‘na, nitida, elegantissima, &c. 
Some varieties of veronicas, geraniums, monardas, and tradescantias are also 
_ in bloom. 

September. — I now embrace every opportunity that occurs to collect seeds 
of all the most rare and choice plants. This requires strict attention, and 
takes up a considerable part of my time during this month. The flower- 
borders are again looked over, hoed, and raked, and all decayed flower-stems 
are cut away as they appear. I now also look over the georginas, and cut off 
all overblown flowers, except a few of the most beautiful kinds, which are 
left for seed. Cutting away the decayed flowers not only gives the plants a 
much neater appearance, but causes the succeeding flowers to blow much 
finer than they otherwise would do; as, if all the seed were left to ripen, the 
blossoms would be thereby deprived of much nourishment. The turf and gravel 
are attended to in every respect as usual. Of all the shrubs which adorn the 
garden at this season, the Acacia lophantha and 4A. dealbata are the most beau- 
tiful. These two plants were turned out from the green-house in June, and 
planted on the turf in a mixture of loam and peat, with a third part of manure 
from a decayed hotbed. The A. lophantha was, when planted out, 5 ft. high ; 
and the A. dealbata was 3ft. high. The former has now attained the height 
of 10 ft., and its branches extend 18 ft. in circumference; and the latter has 
attained the height of 8 ft. I shall take both plants up next month, put them 
in large tubs, and place them in the green-house for the winter. 1 doubt not 
that Acacia dealbata will stand the winter in the open garden, protected by 
furze, when the wood is become more mature. I have little hopes of A. 
lophantha ever surviving the winter in the open garden. They must, how- 
ever, both be left out another season, as they will be too large to be taken up ; 
and the result will form a subject for an article in a future Number of the 
Gardener’s Magazine, if you consider it will be of any service to your numer- 
ous readers. [We shall be happy to receive this article.) The three follow- 
ing are also beautiful plants for setting out on the turf,— Lupinus mutabilis 
var. Cruckshanksianus, Polygala latifolia, and that superb green-house plant, 
Leonotis Leontrus, which is now standing on the turf 6 ft. high, with twenty- 
four spikes of flowers, which will expand before the end of the month. This, 
as well as the Polygala, will be taken up next month, and placed in the 
green-house during winter. The above, and many other green-house shrubs 
treated in like manner, become very large, and add considerably to the beauty 
of the garden during the summer months. During this month we have in 
flower, besides georginas, hollyhocks, tuberoses, &c., the following shrubs and 
herbaceous plants: — Fankia subcordata, Zephyranthes candida, Alstreeméria 
psittacina and Pelegrina, Leucdjum autumnale, Palitrus aculeatus, Lobélia 
Tupa, ceeléstis, &c.; Chirdnia /inifolia, Fachsia arborea, Cassia marilandica, 
Andrémeda speciosa, Dianthus piingens, O’xalis Bowie, Lythrum virgatum, 
Potentilla Hopwoodiana, &c.; Chelone obliqua and barbata, Verbéna venosa, 
&c.; Antirrhinum molle, &c.; Mimulus glutinosus, Erddium multicatle, Cro- 
talaria élegans, Genista canariénsis, Lupinus versicolor, Lotus jacobz‘us, 
Wistaria frutéscens, Erythrina /aurifolia, Erythrola‘na conspicua, Humea 
élegans, Tagétes lucida, Echinacea purpurea, Gaillardia bicolor and aristata, 
Othénna [?] septémfida, Tradescantia virginica and flore rubro pléno. Several 
varieties of phloxes, liatrises, campanulas, cenotheras, asters, salvias, delphi- 
niums, pentstemons, German stocks, German and China asters, and a few 
varieties of pinks, still continue to bloom. 

October.— The leaves of elms and many other deciduous trees and shrubs 
are now beginning to fall; the flower-garden therefore requires to be swept 
over daily, which is done the first thing every morning, as I never suffer a 
barrow or a broom to be seen in the flower-garden later in the day than one 


Floricultural Calendar. 219 


o'clock, if I can avoid it. I now begin to take up the more tender green- 
house plants, and pot them, and place them in their winter quarters, letting 
such kinds as will bear a slight frost remain a little longer. Should there be 
any appearance of frost, I cover at night with worsted netting some of the 
more choice kinds, such as Fachsia arborea, Polygala latifolia, Lupinus mu- 
tabilis var. Cruckshanks?dnus, and some others that are still in full bloom. 
By this means I have often kept them uninjured till the end of the month, 
when the fear of losing them by frost prevents my leaving them out any longer. 
Georginas are taken up as soon as they are touched by the frost, laid out in 
the sun to dry, and afterwards packed in boxes, and placed in a dry situation 
secure from frost. The flower-garden is still very gay; but I now expect 
every day to be the last. The nights hitherto have been favourable, and there 
is now, October 10., a great number of plants in bloom, such as Lobélia lutea, 
bellidifolia, bicolor, speciosa, unidentata, czertlea, &c.; Campanula speciosa ; 
O’xalis floribinda, Déppe?, and Bowiéi; Lychnis vespertina; Potentilla Rus- 
sellidna, formosa, americana, and Hopwoodidna; Delphinium exaltatum, 
Garnierdnum, and élegans; Magnolia grandiflora, Leonotis Leontrus ; Pentsté- 
mon pulchéllus, venustus, rdseus, ovatus, digitalis, Richardsoni, &c.; Verbéna 
venosa, Lambért?, Aubletia, pulchélla, &c.; MJimulus glutindsus, Erodium 
Gusson2, Crotalaria élegans, Sutherlandia frutéscens, Coronilla glaica, Cata- 
nanche bicolor, Arctotis auréola and grandiflora; Senécio élegans, red and 
white double-flowered; Linaria triornithdéphora, alpina, and tristis; Arnopo- 
gon Dalechampzi, petunias and nierembergias, Nicotiana fragrans, all the kinds 
of salvias aforenamed, a few kinds of phloxes, eleven kinds of fuchsia, annual 
cenotheras and clarkias, China roses and the crimson perpetual. 

November. — The half-hardy and green-house plants being now all taken up 
and removed to their winter quarters, I proceed to cut away the stems of the 
herbaceous plants, &c.; and the borders receive a good dressing of leaf- 
mould previously to being dug; which I perform during this month and De- 
cember if the weather permit. I now screen all the half-hardy plants, such as 
Amorpha Lewis, Azalea indica, cistuses, and fuchsias, that are left to stand 
the winter in the open garden, with furze or baskets of wickerwork, which I 
find answer much better than close coverings, as the plants are not so liable 
to damp off, and mats are easily thrown over at night should the weather be 
very severe. I also cover with coal-ashes or moss the roots of Erythrina 
Jaurifolia, Tageétes lucida, Bouvardia triphylla, Watsonia falgida; O’xalis 
Bowieéi, floribtnda, and Déppez; Zephyranthes grandiflora, Alstroeméria psit- 
tacina, &c., to protect them from frost. The turf is now swept over twice a 
week, and mown once during this month, if it be mild open weather. There 
are but few flowers to speak of during this month; still the garden is not 
without its charms. We have now the large bright red fruit of Cratz‘gus 
Oxyacantha major and Azardlus, the snowy white berries of Symphoria race- 
mosa, and the large glossy green hollies, some almost covered with fruit, and 
others intermixed with a few clusters of Noisette and common China roses, 
which still continue to expand among their branches. All tend to enliven the 
scene at this dreary season. 

December. — Very little is doing in the flower-garden during this month. If 
any borders remain to be dug, they are now finished; and, to such as are 
planted annually with lobelias, German stocks, verbenas, &c., I give a good 
dressing of strong stable manure, and dig them over two spades deep. By 
thus preparing the beds, the plants root deeper, and produce finer flowers 
than they would do if the ground were not prepared; and,should the summer 
prove dry, they do not require half the watering they would do if the beds 
were dug only half the above depth. The turf is now mown down close for 
the last time this season. Ifthe weather is open, I always mow the last time 
during this month, as I have proved by experience that the later I mow in 
autumn, the finer the turf always is in the following spring. It may not be 
requisite in all gardens to mow so late as December, but much, of course, 
depends on the mildness of the season and the situation of the garden. The 


220 Gardens of the Misses Garner. 


garden here lies rather low, and the soil is a strong loam ; consequently the 
grass continues to grow until near Christmas. I now collect a good heap of 
leaves, and mix a considerable portion of fresh-slacked lime with them to 
hasten their decay; and, by turning them over twice or thrice during the 
ensuing summer, they make fine mould for the flower borders the following 
winter. The productions of the flower-garden during this month are less 
numerous than in any other during the year; yet even now it is not without 
some objects of beauty, or even a few flowers. The Christmas rose (Hellé- 
borus niger) is now beginning to expand; a few anemones are also still in 
bloom; and the Daphne neapolitana, which continues in bloom the whole 
year, is now in great beauty. In fragrance, this plant is not inferior to the 
jasmine or the sweetest rose. Among the evergreens (on which the beauty of 
the garden chiefly depends at this season), the gold, the silver, and the green- 
edged varieties of I‘lex Aquifolium are objects of great beauty. 


Thus far have I attempted to give a correct account of my 
method of managing the flower-garden during each month in 
the year. There are many more plants than I have enumerated 
‘which flower here during the summer months; but those named 
deserve a place in every good flower-garden. 
Wickham, near Fareham, Hants, James Moore. 
January 10. 1834. 


THis communication must very much avail the young gardener, both in the 
notice of the successive operations needful to the satisfactory management of 
the flower-garden, and also, and not less, in the detailed naming of the genera 
and species of plants which most contribute to its splendour. A few words 
may be added on hardy bulbous plants, whose efficient service in the object of 
decoration seems not much insisted on. No plants are more beautiful at any 
time ; but as several genera of them (Galanthus, Crocus, Narcissus, Fritillaria, 
Trichonéma, Scilla in some of its species, Tviipa, Erythronium, Gagea) dis- 
play their very pretty flowers earlier than the time at which herbaceous plants 
generally are coming into flower, no plants are then so beautiful. Happily, 
no plants, also, are more free of culture and increase. Only two con- 
ditions are, perhaps, imperative with them ; a soil not adhesive, and absolute 
exemption from disturbance while they are in a state of growth. As to soil, 
though freedom from adhesiveness be its essential requisite, it is capable of all 
degrees of farther adaptation to the various species of bulbous plants cul- 
tivated, by regulating its degree of dryness, and increasing its richness and 
friableness by the admixture of manure, leaf-mould, sand, &c., and by appro- 
priating to bulbous plants, in preference, those beds or borders which are at 
once most sheltered, and have the sunniest aspect. That bulbous plants 
should not be disturbed at all while in a growing state, every gardener well 
knows ; and to every one beginning to be a gardener, bulbous plants will soon 
teach the fact. The disturbing of them while growing may be rendered needless 
by marking on a label the kind and colour wanted in any particular spot, 
placing there that label ; and affixing to a clump of the required kind, that in- 
cludes plants enough to spare some, a label stating its kind and partibleness. 
In obedience to the same condition of not disturbing bulbous plants while 
growing, invariably divide and transplant such of them as you wish to part, or 
deem to need it (most bulbous plants will, perhaps, grow three years without 
becoming choked by their own offsets), as soon as ever they have ceased 
growing ; a state which they have reached when their leaves have become 
of a brown colour. Then dig up, part, and replant them forthwith; and of 
course recollect to occupy the blanks observed and labelled in spring with the 
kinds and colours noted as wanted in them. The bulbs are now, once for all; 


Management of the Vinery. 221 


in their places, ready to follow their natural habit of emitting roots in autumn 
for the acquisition of energies to flower freely and finely in the following 
spring. There is trouble in this mode, and so, unluckily, there is in every 
other; and by myself the “ once for all” mode is preferred, as absolving one 
from the after-care of “ I must get in my bulbs” on this, that, and the other 
day (as unexpected occupation may cause you to defer the day), and the 
annoyance of seeing them lie sprouting and shooting, and tacitly chiding you 
for inconsiderately disabling them from flowering so as “ to charm all human 
eyes” in the spring succeeding. — J. D. 


Art. X. On the Management of the Vinery. 
By A Youne GARDENER. 


In order to prevent the fruit from suffering from the effects 
of damp (an evil so often complained of in vineries), the young 
wood should always be kept thin, by taking the tops from the 
shoots, three or four joints above the fruit; and not allowing 
them to ramble through the house, shading the fruit from the 
sun, and preventing the free circulation of air among the bunches 
and berries. For the same reason, the lateral shoots, which 
push from the young wood, should be cut or pinched off at the 
first or second joint, so as not to endanger the bursting of the 
bud on the main shoot. 

It is well known, that every place from which the sun and air 
are partially excluded is sure to be damp: the walls of a house, 
for instance, which are covered with ivy, if it is not in a very 
dry situation, will be found wet and uncomfortable in the inside.* 
When this is considered, it will appear evident, that, upon the 
same principle, the vinery in which the wood is not properly 
thinned must suffer in the same manner, though in a less degree. 
Particular attention should be given to the thinning of the fruit ; 
taking out most berries in the heart of the bunch; leaving those 
towards the extremities; and making the whole very thin. 
Those kinds of grapes the bunches of which are of a branchy 
nature, such as the black Hamburgh, the Syrian or white Nice, 
&c., should always be stretched out a little, and tied up with a 


* Ivy, when not fully grown, may be liable to the objections of our corre- 
spondent ; but when it has grown a sufficient time to clothe the face of a wall 
with its foliage, no covering whatever can more completely protect it from 
moisture. Our correspondent’s objections apply with their full force to deci- 
duous plants of every kind trained against the walls of houses; and both 
deciduous plants and evergreens afford protection and breeding-places for many 
kinds of insects, slugs, &c. We have known snails and earwigs infest bedrooms 
two and three stories from the ground, in houses, the walls of which were 
covered externally with ivy. For this reason, we would never have any de- 
scription of plant, either deciduous or evergreen, trained on a cottage close to 
the windows. On walls wholly without windows, or architectural ornaments 
of any kind, ivy will form a valuable protection from rain, and also a non- 
conductor of heat, either from without or within. — Cond. 


222 Cultivation of the Peach Tree. 


small piece of matting, that they may have room to swell, and 
be kept from crowding each other. ‘This is not only a means of 
preserving the bunches from damp, but also of having better- 
swelled and finer-flavoured berries. It is a common practice 
with those who have fruit in their vineries, when the season is far 
advanced, to keep up the temperature of the house, throughout 
the night, with artificial heat, and to let their fires go nearly out 
when the morning dawns. [See p.18.] I do not, however, 
approve altogether of this plan. Let any person go into a vinery 
in the morning, before it is aired, and when the sun is shining 
upon it, he will feel the atmosphere moist; and, on examining 
the fruit, will perceive that it is covered with dew. Now, if this 
moisture be allowed to remain for any length of time, it certainly 
must prove injurious; and to remedy the evil seems to be an 
object worth attention. 

A very small degree of artificial heat will be found sufficient 
throughout the night; but, as soon as the sun arises in the 
morning, and shines upon the house, by increasing the temper- 
ature, and giving a sufficient quantity of air, the moisture will 
be expelled, and the atmosphere of the house will become dry. 
It may not be unnecessary to remark, that the fruit should be 
often examined ; and, if there are any of the berries on which the 
damp has taken effect, they should be carefully picked off; as, 
if they are suffered to remain, the damp will soon spread over 
the whole bunch. 

Mid-Lothian, Sept. 18. 1833. A Youne GARDENER. 


Art. XI. Notes on the Cultivation of the Peach Tree. 
By Mr. James Hart. 


Tue garden of Sir F. N. Burton, of Burcraggy, county of 
Clare, lies on a limestone rock, varying from 2 ft. to within a 
few inches of the surface: the soil is a pure black loam, probably 
of the same chemical qualities as the yellow; it has the same 
unctuous feel. ‘The peach trees growing some years ago in this 
soil and garden could not be surpassed for health, and they bore 
the most abundant crops of the finest fruit that could be possibly 
produced. I dare say the crop of 1813 is still remembered in 
some parts of the county of Clare. Neither mildew nor fly was 
to be seen on these trees, nor any disease whatever. I had them 
covered one spring with bast mats; but the last spring that I 
was there they were not covered at all, yet neither did the trees 
suffer in the smallest degree from the severity of the weather, 
nor did the crop of fruit which followed show that any injury 
had been sustained. One might fancy that these trees enjoyed 
the privilege of growing among the rocks; they had the appear- 


Cultivation of the Peach Tree. 223 


ance of being quite happy. As the garden was small, I had to 
crop the borders: the crops were winter spinach, early peas, 
and turnips, and these allowed the borders to be clear during the 
summer, when I had them mulched about 3 in. thick, with rotten 
dung from the old hotbeds. The peach tree cannot endure 
dung that has any strength in it to be dug in among its roots, 
although it bears the moisture from the dung when filtered 
through the earth to its roots very well. ‘To the peach tree, 
strong dung in among the roots is almost instant death; and 
is at least sure to bring on the mildew, and that so abundantly, 
as totally to prevent the recovery of the tree. 

The above facts suggested to me, that, in making borders for 
peach trees, when the soil is not naturally suitable, and has to 
be excavated and carried off, and a loam substituted for it, it 
will be well to have a part of the excavated border, say to the 
depth of 3 ft., filled up with large pieces of rock, or lumps of 
stones, reaching from the bottom to within a few inches of the 
surface. ‘This provision would prevent the roots from lying in 
superabundant moisture, and at the same time keep them out of 
harm’s way, and the hazard of being cut with the spade in stirring 
the ground. The heat of the stones, and the moisture collected 
about them, would attract the fibrous parts of the roots into con- 
tiguity with the stones, and so prevent them from foraging about 
the surface Of the soil in quest of heat and moisture. The cutting 
of the roots in digging the borders is injurious to the trees in 
the highest degree ; for trees that are so treated, although they 
grow vigorously through the summer, are still unhealthy, and 
become the victims of mildew and fly in the peach tree; fly and 
caterpillar in the plum tree; and caterpillar in the gooseberry 
bush. The soil and climate are the chief essentials for the health 
of all plants, and eminently so for that of the peach tree, which, 
in regard to the soil eligible to it, cannot be kept in health unless 
in a strong sound loam: no mixtures of soil suit it. The plum 
tree, the gooseberry bush, and the currant bush, do very well on 
any soil, provided you do not cut the roots of either in digging, 
not even by digging dung in among them. Mulch the plum tree 
with rotten dung, and, when required, loosen the earth with a 
fork; dung the gooseberry bush and currant bush, and cover 
the dung applied with earth, as I have mentioned in a former 
note on these two. (VIII.694.) The ground must be kept rich 
about these three, and no curtailment of their roots allowed; 
if they be not preserved in this condition, but left to poverty, 
and exposed to a lessening of their roots, they will soon be 
attacked with disease, and be rendered a prey to the caterpillar, 
the fly, or the mildew. 

Gardeners have long known which is the kind of soil most 
conducive to the health and welfare of the peach tree. As early 


224 Laying out and Planting of Fruit-Gardens. 


as 1809, I had a considerable quantity of border made of a yel- 
low loam for peach trees, for W. S. Poyntz, Esq., of Cowdray 
Lodge, Sussex. I think it was rather light, but it was the best 
to be had. In general it has been, not the want of a knowledge 
of the fittest soil for the peach tree, but the want of knowledge 
of the after-management, that has caused it frequently to make 
- such a pitiful figure. 

The whole of these remarks relate to the nectarine tree equally 
with the peach tree. James Hart. 

Drumcondra, Dublin, Sept. 21. 1833. 


Art. XII. On the Laying out and Planting of Fruit-Gardens. By 
Mr. Joun JENNINGS, of the Shipton upon Stour Nursery. 


I wisH to direct your attention to the laying out of fruit- 
gardens. What are termed kitchen-gardens are, in point of 
fact, fruit, flower, and culinary vegetable gardens, presenting to 


=ER 
EX a 


22 


a, Pond of water for the use of the garden. b, Walks. c, Entrance at the sunk fence, 
d, Borders for wall-fruit trees. e, Strawberry zone. J, Raspberry zone. g, Currant zone. 
h, Gooseberry zone. z, Cherry zone. k, Plum zone. Z, Pear zone. mm, Apple zone. 


Culture of Cereus speciosissimus. 225 


the eye an incongruous mass, and ill adapted to the vigorous 
growth of any article that they contain. It is my wish to see 
one garden exclusively appropriated to the growth of fruit, and 
another to that of culinary vegetables. Let each be kept dis- 
tinct: the flower-garden should be void of fruits and culinary 
vegetables ; the kitchen-garden of fruits and flowers; and the 
fruit-garden of culinary vegetables and flowers. Impressed with 
this idea, I have sent the accompanying sketch (jig. 22.) of a 
garden for fruit only; and I think that this or some other 
similar plan ought to be generally adopted. If some such plan 
were adopted, it would at once strike at the root of the per- 
nicious practice of digging and cropping among fruit trees; the 
injurious effects of which have been so often pointed out in this 
Magazine that they require no farther comment from me. I 
would recommend the zones to be planted as described in the 
figure ; taking care to keep the different sorts in their proper 
places, because, by so doing, the fruits, that are generally 
ravaged by birds, &c., might be easily protected from them by 
covering the whole centre with netting, in the manner the cherry 
garden is covered at Hylands. (III. 596.) 

The wall is an octagon, with a border for trees on each side ; 
and a sunk fence, with a hedge of common holly and hawthorn, 
surrounds the whole; thus making an impenetrable fence, and 
facilitating the draining of the garden, should it be found 
necessary. JoHN JENNINGS. 

Days Nursery, Shipton upon Stour, Feb. 26. 1834. 


Art. XIII. Short Communication. 


THE Céreus speciosissimus at Woodhall gardens, in Renfrew- 
shire, attains an extraordinary size and beauty. The late excel- 
lent Mr. Henderson, gardener there, used soil composed of two 
parts of rich loam, three of decomposed manure, and one consist- 
ing of equal quantities of peat, sand, and broken tiles. ‘The plant 
is placed in a large pot, and trained to the back trellis of a pine 
stove ; where, in July, 1833, when I saw it, it occupied a surface 
of 84 square feet, and had 300 flowers all open at the same time. 
Mr. Denholm, the present gardener, gives this and other species 
of the Cactus family a more ample supply of water than is 
usually done, while they are maturing their flower-buds; and to 
this he attributes, in a great measure, the vigour of the bloom. 
In winter, when the plant is in a state of rest, little or no water 
is given. — Juvenis. Glasgow, March 7. 1834. 


VoL. X. — No. 50. Q 


REVIEWS. 


Art. I. Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London. Second Series. 
Vol. I. Part III. 4to. London, Hatchard. 


28. Journal of Meteorological Observations for 1829. By Mr. W.B. Booth, A.L.S. 
Twenty-six pages of figures, and a plate of diagrams. 


29. Description of various Modes of heating by Steam for Horticultural Purposes. 
By Mr. Henry Stothert, Civil Engineer, Bath. Read Feb. 21. 1832. 


OnE of the most economical modes of applying steam to the heating of 
hot-houses is, to apply it to a bed or mass of loose stones. This mode 
appears to have been first adopted by Mr. Hay of Edinburgh, in 1807 (V. 443., 
and VIII. 330.); and has been subsequently applied, by the same eminent 
garden architect, to a number of pine and melon pits in different parts of 
Scotland. It has also been adopted in England, and on a very extensive 
scale, in connection with heating pipes and cisterns of water, at the nursery 
of Miller and Co. at Bristol. Nothing can be more simple than this mode of 
applying steam. The bed of stones to be heated may be about the usual 
thickness of a bed of tan or dung; the stones may be from 3 in. to 6 in. in. 
diameter, hard round pebbles being preferred, as less liable to crumble by 
moisture, and having larger vacuities between. The pipe for the steam is 
introduced at one end of the bottom of this bed, and is continued to the 
opposite end. It is uniformly pierced with holes along the two sides, so as 
to admit of the equal distribution of the steam through the mass of stones. 
The steam-pipe may be of any dimension, it being found that the only differ- 
ence between a large pipe and a small one is, that the steam proceeds from 
the latter with greater rapidity. The steam only requires to be introduced 
once in twenty-four hours in the most severe weather; and, in mild weather, 
once in two or three days is found sufficient. After the steam is turned on, 
it is kept in that state till it has ceased to condense among the stones, and, 
consequently, has heated them to its own temperature. This is known by 
the steam escaping, either through the soil over the stones, or through the 
sides of the pit ; or, when a mass of stones is enclosed in a case of masonry, 
as in the stone flues of the Bristol Nursery, the point of saturation is known 
by the safety-valve of the boiler being raised. When we consider the small- 
sized pipes that may be used for conveying and delivering steam by this mode 
of its application, there can be no doubt that it is the cheapest mode of heat- 
ing on a large scale known; and when we revert to the circumstance of its 
never requiring to be applied oftener than once in the twenty-four hours, and 
reflect that this renders all night-work unnecessary, the superiority of the plan 
does not admit of a doubt. In VIII. 330., there is a copious account, illus- 
trated by engravings, of the application of this mode of heating to certain pine 
and melon pits in Scotland, taken from the Memoirs of the Caledonian Horti- 
cultural Society ; but the description is so encumbered with words, and the 
engravings with letters, that the simplicity of the plan is rendered, at first sight, 

23 so intricate by them,as,no doubt, 
to deter many from adopting it. 
Those, however, who wish to 
know all that has been said on 
the subject, will revert to that 
article, as well as peruse the 
present one. Stothert’s appli- 
cation of steam to beds of stones 
—— may he thus abridged : — 
ses ScaeE  T For heating Pine Pits. —Figs. 

23. and 24, represent a mode of 


| 


{THT 


| 
i 


N arom orp oo 


TUSenOaAL 


L 

my Se 
S 
g 


iS} 


f = 


| 


Transactions of the London Horticultural Society. 227 


obtaining bottom heat by means of “a cistern of water heated by small steam- 
pipes, which are introduced near the bottom, leaving only sufficient drainage 
to take away the condensed water. The depth of water in the cistern is about 
1 ft.; which is warmed, generally about twice a day, by means of two one-inch 
steam-pipes, each going to the farther end of the cistern, and returning again 
in the opposite direction, as shown in jig. 23.: by this means the heat is very 

24. easily distributed. At each end 
of the cistern, a small passage 
(a) is left, for the purpose of 
ascertaining the temperature ef 
the water ; and this passage will, 
if left open, admit considerable 
humidity to the house or pit. 
Across the cistern are laid joists, which support a paving of stone or brick, 
laid without mortar, on which is placed a bed of broken stones or bricks, 
about 1 ft. in thickness, which, towards the top, are about the size commonly 
used for macadamising the public roads: this is again covered with a bed of 
ashes, in which the pots are placed, as in the usual way.” 

For Bulbs and Cacit, “a 
paved water-tight bottom may 
be built on stones, or any suit- 
able support, with’a declivity of 
lin. in 10 ft., to any convenient 
point for the purpose of drain- 
age, as shown in figs. 25. and 
26. Channels are formed about 
3 in. deep, and the same width, 
crossing each other, as shown 
in fig. 26.; which also repre- 
sents two small steam-pipes, 
each three quarters of an inch 
in diameter, closed at the far- 
ther end, and having perfor- 
ations about one tenth of an 
inch in diameter opposite each 
other, and in the middle of the 
channels. The result is, that, when steam is admitted into the pipes, it is 
discharged in opposite directions, through the orifices, fillmg the whole space 
of the channels with hot vapour; the channels being covered with brick or 
stone, jointed without mortar, as shown in jig. 26. The vapour which per- 
colates between the joists is arrested by a bed of stones or broken bricks, 
similar to those used in jig. 24., and about 14 in. in depth above the paved bot- 
tom: on this, again, is placed a bed of sand, about 1 ft. deep, in which the 
pots are plunged to any suitable depth. The vapcur is so completely arrested 
by the strata of stones and sand beneath the pots, as to communicate a heat 
congenial to the health of the plants, without the least excess of moisture.” 

For Melon Pits, a hollow chamber is formed over the bed of stones that 
cover the steam-pipes, as in the plan for pines. ( jigs. 23. and 24.) “ Imme- 
diately over the bed of stones are laid joists, supporting a paved bottom, 
jointed without mortar, on which is placed another bed of stones, &c., about 
8in. thick; and on this is placed the mould containing the plants. The 
objects of these arrangements are, first, to obtain a perfect uniformity of tem- 
perature; and, secondly, to prevent the possibility of any of the roots receiving 
injury from heat, should they accidentally strike through the mould into the 
bed of stones; both of which objects are perfectly attained. Figs. 27. and 
28. represent an elevation and plan of a melon pit erected for W.W. Salmon, 
Esq., at Devizes, showing also the mode of heating the atmosphere of the 
pit by flues of loose stones heated by steam-pipes. The arrangement of 
these pipes, and the paved bottom channels for vapour, &c., are precisely the 

Q 2 


fj nn a 


228 Transactions of the London Horticultural Society. 


o7 same as above de- 

scribed ; but, in lieu 

ai ; i of the bed of broken 
; stones, &c., bricks 
=< = are here placed edge- 
: SA igus mi wise, one over the 


I ay other, four deep, ar- 
To) Qa ranged in the same 
om i 5 
| wna manner as for burn- 


; aaa ing in a kiln: over 

== these bricks is laid 
= ——— =— a flat cover, jointed 
close without mor- 
tar; and, on this, 
the mould contain- 
ing the plants.” 

For Aquatic Plants. 
— Ig. 29. “ shows 
a mode of warming a 
cistern or reservoir 
of water for the preservation of aquatic plants, as erected at Mr. Miller’s 
nursery at Clifton, in front of one of the green-houses, and having a glass 

29 roof. Steam is ad- 

mitted by a pipe, 
three quarters of an 
inch in diameter, 
having perforations 
of about one tenth 
of an inch at each foot in length ; the extremity of the pipe being closed, the 
steam issues through the small apertures, filling the whole internal area of the 
large pipe in which it is enclosed, and imparting an equable temperature to the 
whole extent of surface. This effect cannot be obtained by applying steam 
in the common way, when but a small increase of temperature is required ; 
as the water immediately in contact with the pipe where the steam is admitted 
would absorb nearly the whole of its heat, till it arrived at a temperature far 
beyond what could be allowed in a case of this kind. The dimensions of the 
reservoir alluded to are about 3ft. by 3 ft. 6 in., and 20 ft. long. The external 
pipe is 4 in. inside in diameter ; and the condensed water from it is taken away 
by a small inverted siphon at the farther end.” 


Heating the Atmosphere of Conservatories, Hot-houses, §c. — Figs. 30, 31, 
and 32. “represent a mode of heating water in pipes by the agency of steam. 


31 


Transactions of the London Horticultural Society. 229 


It is well known, that, by the common hot- 
water apparatus, the heating of an extensive 
and unconnected establishment of houses by 
one fire is impracticable in most cases; but, 
in the mode here represented, the extent of 
application is ina manner unlimited, whatever 
be the number or situation of the houses 
requiring heat. It likewise combines all the 
advantages of steam, as a conductor of heat, 
with that of a bulk of water as a retainer. 
The first adoption of this mode was in a 
forcing-house, belonging to Mr. Sturge, near 
Bath. The water-pipes were 8 in. in diameter, 
and about 28 ft.long. The steam-pipe, of 1 in. 
in diameter, entering at the centre of one end, 
and proceeding in rather an inclined direction to the other, is then returned, 
still inclining, and passed out at the bottom of the bore immediately under the 
place where it entered: it is then formed into a siphon (4) about 3 ft. deep, 
whence the condensed water is conveyed away. A smaller pipe is also con- 
nected with the top of the large one, to receive the increase of water by 
expansion when heated ; which, as the large pipe cools, returns into it again. 
Fig. 32. shows the arrangement of the front pipes under the floor. The air 
being admitted from the air-chamber underneath, through an opening extend- 
ing the whole length of the pipes, and passing through the upper chamber on 
each side of the pipes, is discharged through the grating into the house. The 
arrangement of the back pipes is similar. Shallow cisterns are connected 
with the upper part of the pipes, about 18 ft. from each other, by means of 
hollow screws, which admit the water to pass to and fro reciprocally ; the 
capacity of the cistern is more than sufficient to receive the increased bulk of 
the water, which expands when heated, and returns again into the pipes as 
the water cools. The external diameter of the front pipes, in this instance, 
is 13in.; and of the back pipes, 103 in.: each set of pipes is divided in the 
middle of their length, except that the nearest division of the front pipes 
returns about half-way round, the end being in length rather more than 60 ft. 
These water-pipes have 11 in. steam-pipes; extending in them their whole 
length, and returning again, preserving a regular inclination throughout. The 
back pipes have steam-pipes, of lin. in diameter, passing through them in 
a similar way; and the teeding-pipes are so arranged, that either division of 
the pipes may be heated separately, or in conjunction with the rest. Another 
advantage attending this mode of applying heat is, that, as no returning pipes 
are necessary, as in the common hot-water apparatus, the bulk of water is 
doubled, with the same extent of heating surface; and the retaining power of 
the apparatus is doubled accordingly. The cisterns are farther serviceable for 
regulating the humidity of the house, which can be done with the greatest 
accuracy by attending to the covers.” 
Mode of heating the Atmosphere of Conservatories, Hot-houses, §c., by Steam 
discharged into Cases of Masonry or Brickwork, —Figs. 33. and 34. “ represent 
a mode of heating, by introducing steam into cases of stone or brick- 
work, filled with rubble-stones, or pieces of broken brick. This mode 
is equally applicable to the largest and smallest establishments. The 
agent being steam, it possesses the same facility of application as 
steam applied to hot-water pipes, and, consequently, the same ad- 
vantages ; and may be adopted in conjunction with hot-water pipes 
or not, as it may be thought desirable. ig. 33. represents a cross 
section of a case of masonry or brickwork, suitable for a green- 
house of 14 ft. wide, with glazed roof, and 2 ft. 6 in. of glass in front. 
Fig. 34. shows a view of the same, with part of the front taken away at each 
end to show the inside. The steam-pipes are placed about 4 in. above the 
bottom, and have perforations of about one tenth of an inch in diameter ; 
Q3 


230 Paxton’s Magazine of Botany, 


which vary from 15 in. to 18 in. asunder throughout their whole length, but 
become more frequent at. the farther end, which is closed. The general 
direction of the holes is upwards, except some few in the bottom, to keep the 
pipe clear of condensed water. The case being built inclining towards the 
most convenient spot for draining, the condensed water is taken away by 


a small siphon, about 3 in. or 4:in. deep, as shown in jig. 34. A steam-pipe 
of lin. diameter is sufficient for a case of 50ft. in length; and, if proper 
attention be paid to the dimensions and distance of the holes, which, in this 
instance, need not be above one sixth closer at the farther end than at the com- 
mencement, the temperature at one end of the case will scarcely differ perceptibly 
from that at the other; an effect utterly unattainable in the best constructed 
fire-flue, which, in appearance, it so much resembles. There is, however, no 
particular proportion of the height to the breadth ; that depending entirely on 
convenience. Where freestone cases are used, it is found necessary that 
they should receive two or three coats of linseed oil, to prevent the escape 
of steam through them. It is better to give moisture to the house by steam- 
cocks fixed at the top of the cases, as shown in fig. 34.; humidity can then be 
regulated at pleasure.” 


Art. If. 1. Pazxton’s Magazine of Botany and Register of Flowering Plants. 
By Joseph Paxton, F.L.S. H.S., Editor of the Horticultural Register, &c. 
Nos. L., IL., and III., for February, March, and April, 1834. Small 4to.. 
2s. each. 

2. Maund’s Botanic Garden. \n monthly Numbers. Small 4to. Is. each. 

3. Harrison’s Floricultural Cabinet. Yn monthly Numbers. 8vo. 6d. each. 

4. Harrison’s Gardener's and Forester’s Record. In monthly Numbers. 8vo. 
6d. each. 

5. Paxton’s Horticultural Register. In monthly Numbers. 8vo. Is. each. 


In the introduction to Paxton’s Magazine of Botany, we are informed that 
the high price of some botanical periodicals “ places them beyond the reach of 
most flower cultivators: while the cheap periodicals, although unobjection- 
able in respect to price, are manifestly defective in other points of greater 
importance ; the plates they contain bearing but little resemblance to the plants 
they are intended to represent. ‘To obviate these objections, each number of 
the Magazine of Botany will contain four engravings of plants, of the natural 
size, beautifully coloured from original drawings,” &c. (p.2.) The work 
may, therefore, be considered as something intermediate between the Botanical 
Register, monthly, at 4s., and the Mloricultural Cabinet, monthly, at 6d. It 
has no pretensions to being an original botanical work; and, therefore, it 
may fairly be compared with Maund’s Botanic Garden, and the Floriculturat 
Cabinet. In estimating its value relatively to these works, the first observ- 
ation which we shall make is, that figures, “ beautifully coloured,” of plants 
already in the nurseries and gardens, are of no value whatever to the practical 
gardener, beyond that of being ornaments in the line of his profession. What 
reading gardener, for example, who could afford to expend in books Qs. 
monthly, would give that sum for a work, the principal recommendation of which 
is, that it consists of finely coloured engravings cf such plants as Ribes san- 
guineum, Schizanthus rettsus, Petunia violacea, and Streptanthéra ctprea 
(the four plants figured in Paxton’s No. 1.), all of which haye been in the 


Maund’s Botanic Garden, sc. 231 


nurseries for several years? The same may be said of the figures of plants 
in Maund’s Botanic Garden, and in Harrison’s Floricultural Cabinet. All 
three works we consider to be out of the question with reference to the 
reading gardener, as far as it respects their figures. We shall next compare 
them as to their letterpress, meaning that part of it which treats of culture 
and management. Here we find that Maund’s work is exceedingly meagre, 
as compared with either Paxton’s or Harrison’s. The two latter, in point 
of the quantity and quality of the practical information which they contain, 
appear to us to be as nearly as possible on a par; and, therefore, considering 
that the price of the one is 2s., and of the other only 6d., we need not say 
which we think best suited for the practical cultivator of flowers, Harrison’s 
Cabinet, indeed, we consider to be one of the most useful of the floricultural 
periodicals of the day, as it is also, we believe, by far the most extensively 
circulated; and though its coloured figures, which vary from one to six in 
each number, are inferior both to Mr. Maund’s and to Mr. Paxton’s in exe- 
cution, yet they are sufficiently accurate to give a tolerably good idea of what 
they are meant to represent. Compared with the figures in Mr. Maund’s 
work, we greatly prefer those in the Floricultural Cabinet, as approximating 
nearer to the natural size; for, in the Botanic Garden, they are so reduced, 
and the large, as well as small, confined to so diminutive a square, that a 
general observer can scarcely obtain a really useful impression on his mind, of 
the natural appearance of the plant. Notwithstanding this, however, Mr. 
Maund’s publication has done a great deal of good; but Harrison’s Cabinet, 
as may be expected from the lowness of its price, and the great quantity of 
excellent practical matter which it contains, will] penetrate much farther into 
the mass of society. 

To return to Paxton’s Magazine: on looking over the three numbers before 
us, we find them distinguished by the same characteristics as the Horticultural 
Register. There is, however, less general carelessness with regard to language, 
but there are more plagiarisms; though not quite so many quotations from the 
Gardener’s Magazine. As plagiarisms from that work, we refer to some or 
all of the woodcuts in pages 12. 23, 24. 36. and 47., which are either fac- 
similes of cuts that first appeared in the Gardener’s Magazine, or very trifling 
variations from them, taken without the slightest acknowledgment. With 
respect to plagiarisms in the Horticultural Register, we shall only refer to the 
article signed Peter Mackenzie (vol. ii. p. 512.), and to the Notes on Mildew, 
in the same volume (p. 327. and 328.), the latter with cuts ; because, having 
spoken to Mr. Paxton on the subject, he promised to discontinue these plagia- 
risms, and we believe he has done so. The quotations, however, from our work 
are as numerous as ever; there being, in the Horticultural Register for April 
last, no fewer than five articles from the preceding number of the Gardener’s 
Magazine, and these too inserted under the head of Original Communi- 
cations!!! Two of these articles have engravings, one of which was taken from 
a drawing made, at some expense, from a tin model sent to us; while Mr. 
Paxton had nothing more to do than to tell his wood engraver to copy it from 
our woodcut ; the expense to him thus being not a tenth part of what it was 
to us. This is not only ungenerous in Mr, Paxton towards us, but unjust 
towards the public; for it is deceiving the public, to call that origmal which 
has already appeared in another work. We cordially approve of cheap 
publications, and of cheap Gardener’s Magazines among the rest; but this 
cheapness should be produced by fair competition, otherwise it will soon 
cease either to benefit the public, or to act as a stimulus on the competing 
parties. It is perfectly allowable to quote from a magazine into a larger per- 
manent publication, and the contrary. It is even fair to quote from a maga- 
zine that has been several months before the public, into another magazine ; 
or to quote from a magazine treating on one subject, into a magazine which 
treats on another subject: but the sense of justice, implanted by civilisation 
in the human breast, must tell every man that it never can be fair, in the 
editor of one magazine, to fill his pages from another magazine of the same 

Q 4 


239 Works on Gardening, Agriculture, §c. 


kind, which has just appeared. Every one who knows any thing about getting 
up a magazine, knows that to receive a MS. communication and an original 
sketch or perhaps model, or to have liberty to inspect the original and make 
a drawing from it, having afterwards to prepare these for the printer or the 
engraver, is a very different thing from printing or engraving from articles 
already engraved or printed. We may safely state that, on an average, the 
expense is treble in one case what it is in the other. Now, supposing it were 
lawful to copy the greater part of one magazine, just after its appearance, 
into another magazine sold at the same price; it is evident that, while the 
magazine containing original matter was losing, the other which copied from 
it would be making a handsome profit. The losing magazine would have no 
alternative, but either to give up appearing, or to adopt the practice of the 
other, and to take its articles ready prepared from some other published work. 
Both magazines, in consequence of this, would be rendered almost worthless 
to the public. This is an extreme case, put hypothetically, to show what 
unfair competition is, and what would be its consequences to individuals and 
the public. 

A good deal of borrowing, and some plagiarism, were carried on for some 
time by Mr. Harrison. The article on the pronunciation of botanic names, 
in No. i. of the Floricultural Cabinet, was taken verbatim from us, without the 
slightest acknowledgment ; and one number of the Gardener’s Record, we forget 
which, was almost entirely made up from the Gardener’s Magazine. Having 
written at that time to Mr. Harrison, he has since been more moderate, and 
we hope he will continue to be so. 

We may observe here, that numerous articles are taken verbatim, both by 
Paxton and Harrison, from the Gardener’s Magazine, which we had translated 
for that work, from the French, German, or Italian, and the name of the ori- 
ginal work is given as the sole authority. This is a most disingenuous mode, 
altogether unworthy of that straightforward conduct which alone can per- 
manently insure public confidence. Much as we deprecate this practice, we 
do not consider it nearly so bad as that which Mr. Maund commenced some 
months ago, noticed IX. 457. The amount of injury which would be done 
by Mr. Maund to us, or to any other person from whom he might choose to 
quote in the manner described in the page referred to, might possibly not be 
very great; but a more disingenuous mode of quoting, or one more repug- 
nant to our feelings, we have not met with since we commenced our literary 
career. 

Though we have travelled far from Paxton’s Magazine of Botany, we return 
to it to say, that we think it will be very useful to the manufacturers of 
articles which are decorated with figures of plants; such as cotton-printers, 
porcelain manufacturers, paper-hanging manufacturers, &c. To botanists it 
is of no use; as the plants are neither new, nor described with scientific 
accuracy. Gardeners who wish to become acquainted with the newest plants, 
and the proper method of describing them botanically, will consult the Bo- 
tanical Register, the Botanical Magazine, or Sweet’s British Flower-Garden ; 
and for the gardener who does not pretend to much botanical knowledge, the 
amateur in moderate circumstances, and the floricultural operative, there is 
the Floriculturai Cabinet. 


Art. Ill. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, Rural Archi- 
tecture, &c., lately published, with some Account of those considered the most 
interesting. , 


THE Journal of Botany, being a second Series of the Botanical Miscellany: con- 
taining figures and descriptions of such plants as recommend themselves by 
their novelty, rarity, or history, or by the uses to which they are applied in 
the arts, in medicie, and in domestic economy; together with occasional 


General Notices. 233 


botanical notices and information. By Wm. Jackson Hooker, LL.D. F.R. 
A.& L.S. &c. Parts I. and Il. 8vo. London, 1834, 


We are glad to see a new series of this work commenced at a reduced 
price. To botanists in every part of the world, it will be alike interesting ; 
and even the mere horticulturist, and the general reader, will occasionally find 
scraps “in the arts, in medicine, and in domestic economy,” which will interest 
him. For example, it is stated that the inferiority of the dried figs of Madeira 
is owing to the radiation of heat from the figs while drying; in consequence of 
which, instead of their becoming properly dry, moisture is deposited on them 
from the warm circumambient atmosphere. (p. 32.) In Dalmatia, a botanist, 
without stirring from the spot where he was sitting, could at once collect 
twenty-one different species of plants, of which only two are to be found in 
Germany. (p. 79.) Observations on some of the classical plants of Sicily, 
by John Hogg, M.A. F.L.S. &c. (p. 98.) contain many curious notices, in 
addition to those, by the same writer, which will be found in our Mdag. Nat. 
Hist., vol. iii. p. 105, But we refer the reader to the work itself. 


The Practical Irrigator or Drainer. By George Stephens, Land-Drainer, Irri- 
gator, &c. A new edition. 8vo. London, 1834. 


Having before given some account of this work (V.317.), and characterised 
it as “ plain and practical,’ we have only now to state that this new edition 
has received considerable additions and improvements, and that we think 
the work, taken altogether, is the best extant on the subjects upon which 
it treats. 


An Address to the Owners and Occupiers of Land in Great Britain and Ireland, 
on the important Discovery of the Decomposition of common Salt, for the Pur- 
poses of Manure ; whereby an Acre of Land is prepared for the Reception of 
any Crop, at a Cost of Ten Shillings only. By Henry Kemp. Pamph. 8vo. 
London, 1834. 


The substance of this pamphlet of 72 pages is, that soda, sown on poor 
land, at the rate of 10s. worth per acre, will add a third part to the agricultural 
produce ; that the author has discovered a cheap mode of liberating soda from 
common sea salt: but that, before he discovers this to the public, he must 
either have a reward from parliament, or a handsome subscription. If he 
cannot get either, perhaps he will try Mr. Sutton’s mode of publishing. (p. 154.) 


The Calendar of Nature ; or Natural History of the Year. With twelve designs, 
by George Cattermole. 12mo. London, 1834. 


This is a reprint of a work, by the late Dr. Aikin, with additions to the 
letterpress, and a series of most beautiful wood engravings. It is well cal- 
culated for giving young persons a taste for natural history, and for reminding 
all, in a few words, of the characteristics of each month. We can therefore 
strongly recommend it to them who either love the country, or who wish to 


infuse a taste for its peaceful occupations and harmless enjoyments into their 
children. 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


ART. I, General Notices. 


A STATISTICAL Society, that is, a society for collecting and arranging facts 
of every kind, as well agricultural as topographical, moral, political, &c., 
was formed in London, on March 14th. It may be considered as a branch 
of the British Association for the Advancement of Knowledge ; and, what that 
association is likely to effect for science, this is intended to do for the social 
condition of mankind. A Statistical Society was founded three or four years 


234 Foreign Notices: — North America. 


ago in Paris, and similar societies are now forming in other countries. This 
disposition of mankind to associate together for common objects, will lead, at 
no distant period (viz., at the time when representative governments shall have 
become general), to European, American, and Cosmopolitan Societies, com- 
posed of members of all the governments of Europe, America, or the world, 
meeting together to devise plans for the good of all mankind. Among these 
will be, universal education, a universal system of weights, measures, and 
moneys, one common language, one common law, and universal freedom of 
commerce. As to the question of peace or war, there will be very little 
danger of the latter, when it is not the interest of any particular class of men 
to make it. — Cond. 

To poison Moles. — Collect earthworms, kill them, and mix them with the 
powder of nux vomica. After the mixture has remained in a heap twenty- 
four hours, strew a few of the worms in the holes and paths of the moles. 
(Bulletin Universel.) 


Art. II. Foreign Notices. 


NORTH AMERICA. 


THE Magnificence and Splendour of the Forests of North America are peculiar 
to that division of the world. “ In Europe, in Asia, in Africa, and even in 
South America, the primeval trees, how much soever their magnitude may 
arrest admiration, do not grow in the promiscuous style that prevails in the 
great general character of the North American woods. Many varieties of the 
pine, intermingled with birch, maple, beech, oak, and numerous other tribes, 
branch luxuriantly over the banks of lakes and rivers, extend in stately gran- 
deur along the plains, and stretch proudly up to the very summits of the moun- 
tains. It is impossible to exaggerate the autumnal beauty of these forests ; 
nothing under heaven can be compared to its effulgent grandeur. Two or 
three frosty nights, in the decline of autumn, transform the boundless verdure 
of a whole empire into every possible tint of brilliant scarlet, rich violet, every 
shade of blue and brown, vivid crimson, and glittering yellow. The stern in- 
exorable fir tribes alone maintain their eternal sombre green. All others, in 
mountains or in valleys, burst into the most glorious vegetable beauty, and 
exhibit the most splendid and most enchanting panorama on earth.” (J/‘Gre- 
gor’s British America, 1831.) 

To render the woods of Europe in some degree like those of America, we 
have only to plant American trees. All of those which produce the brilliant 
colours spoken of by Mr. M‘Gregor, are as hardy as the native trees of Britain. 
They are chiefly oaks, acers, birches, liquidambars, pines, &c., of different sorts, 
all of which may be purchased, in plants of three and four years’ growth, in 
our principal nurseries; or, in the state of seeds, from those seedsmen, such 
as Mr. Charlwood, who import American seeds on a large scale. 


Art. III. Domestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


KENSINGTON Gardens. — The woods in these gardens, which we have before 
described as thin with excessive thickness, have undergone a second weeding 
in the course of last winter; and they will bear several more thinnings in 
succeeding years, till the trees have sufficient room to admit of their putting 
out lateral branches, and thus preventing the masses from being seen through. 
It is also said to be the intention of government to take down the boundary 
wall of the south side of the garden, and substitute an open iron railing. If 
this be done on the south side, where there are no houses along the park 
road, it is to be hoped that it will also be done on the Bayswater side. There, 
besides the great improvement which it would be to the entrance to London by 
Oxford Street, it would abate a great public nuisance: the numerous angles 


Domestic Notices : — England. 235 


formed by the crooked line of the wall, and the numerous buttresses raised 
from time to time to keep it from falling, forming receptacles for every de- 
scription of filth, The inhabitants of Bayswater petitioned for the removal 
of this wall some years ago, and they were answered by putting the question, 
will the inhabitants pay the expense? We now, in our turn, ask who will 
pay the expense of taking down the south wall ? since there are no houses close 
to the road, which can be called on to do so? Till we know to the contrary, 
we shall conclude that the expense is to be incurred by government, for the gra- 
tification of that part of the aristocracy who drive along the park road close to 
the wall, in order to enter the gardens by the south gate. Either Kensington 
Gardens are public property, or they are not. If they are, they ought surely 
to be managed with a view to the whole of society, and not merely to the 
gratification of a small part. 

We never speak of these gardens without being ready to exclaim, How 
delightful and instructive they might be made, by the addition of a great variety 
of American and other exotic trees and shrubs! but the time does not seem 
arrived for expecting any thing of this kind. Even in Hyde Park, where a 
number of trees are now planting, no kinds are made use of, but the very 
commonest sorts; and this, while in many of the nurseries there are hundreds 
and thousands of large forest trees, choice oaks, acers, horsechestnuts, sweet 
chestnuts, ashes, birches, purple beeches, American limes, liquidambars, tulip 
trees, gleditschias, robinias, deciduous cypress, cedars, pines, firs, and dozens 
of other genera, so large, that, in a year or two, if not sold, they will have to 
be burnt. 

The Zoological Gardens have lately received presents of herbaceous plants 
from the Kew, Edinburgh, and Glasgow Botanic Gardens. We hope each 
genus will be planted by itself, so as to form irregular, scattered, straggling 
groups along the borders; and that they, and also one specimen of each of the 
better kinds of trees and shrubs, will be named in a conspicuous and durable 
manner. 

At the Metropolitan Flower Show held at the Crown and Anchor tavern, 
April 16., there were a number of very fine specimens of choice green-house 
plants; many fine hybrid rhododendrons, some very beautiful Ghent azaleas ; 
and, as might be expected, a great many choice auriculas. There was one of 
the finest specimens of Hovea Célsi which we ever saw, and one equally re- 
markable of Dillwynia glycinefolia ; both, we believe, as well as a number of 
the Ghent azaleas, sent by Mr. Harrison of Cheshunt, one of the greatest 
encouragers of gardening in the neighbourhood of London. There was a fine 
collection of named auriculas sent by Mr. Groom, and an assortment by Mr. 
Glennie, which last seemed to have carried off most of the prizes. The 
number of persons who came to view this exhibition was very considerable; 
and if it were found practicable to continue it for two or three days at a small 
rate for each person, there can be no doubt that it would tend to spread a 
taste for fine flowers, and more firmly to establish this very useful society. 

Grapes and Strawberries were exposed for sale in Covent Garden market 
early in April, and we find by the Cork Constitution newspaper of March 29th, 
that grapes and pine apples were sent off from Lord Doneraile’s garden on the 
28th of March. 

Grafts of the best Varieties of Apples and Pears are advertised to be sold by 
Mr. Saul of Lancaster, at 4d. each. Why should not nurserymen and the 
horticultural societies who have gardens, do the same thing ? 

The Sheffield Botanical and Horticultural Garden is commenced; and Mr. 
Marnock, late gardener at Bretton Hall, is appointed curator. Mr. Marnock 
was also the successful competitor in the plan for laying out the garden: 
a circumstance which does him great honour, and will be no small advantage 
to the garden; since not only gardens and grounds, but even houses, and 
other architectural and engineering works, are often materially injured in the 
execution, from the want of accordance between the mind of the designer and 
that of the executor. The second prize for a plan was given to Mr. Taylor, 
an architect of Sheffield. There were other plans also exhibited, which, 1t 1s 


236 Domestic Notices : — Scotland. 


said, possess considerable merit. We should like to see the whole of them ; 
and this gratification their authors might easily afford us, by sending us tracings 
and descriptiens. — Cond. 

The Colony at Lindfield is flourishing: we have now six cottages for labour- 
ers, with an acre and a quarter of land, which we let for 3s. a week each; we 
have six more with the same quantity of land at 2s. 6d. a week each ; and other 
six with still the same quantity of land, at 2s. a week ; that is, eighteen in all. 
Besides those, we have seven cottages more, with from five to six acres of land 
attached to each; all tenanted, and going on well. The school farm, culti- 
vated mostly by the boys, is also in excellent order.— Wm. Allen. Paradise 
Row, 24th of the third month (March), 1834. 

The Milford Nursery.— We all went ovt to call on Mr. Young, agreeably 
to your recommendation, and were highly gratified. Mr. Penny is a most 
interesting person, enthusiastically devoted to botany, and evidently hoping 
and believing that he will be able to make this nursery the first in the 
world. Mr. Webb, the proprietor, gives them every encouragement, and they 
tell us that he has promised to open a correspondence for them with the prin- 
cipal nurseries and botanic gardens on the Continent; independently of the 
seeds, which he will, of course, send to Milford in preference to any where else. 

You are no doubt aware that Mr. Webb, assisted by M. Bertholet and 
Decandolle, is about to publish a flora of the Canary Isles, and that many 
of the plants which will appear in that flora are already at Milford, though 
their names have not been published. We found Messrs. Young and Penny 
sowing a large collection of seeds collected by Brotero and others, in South 
America, which had been sent them by Mr. Webb, and many of the seeds 
which you sent (p. 170.) are already up. They have just finished buildmg a 
green-house 100 ft. long, a pit of the same length, a stove 50 ft. in length, and 
a turf pit 360 ft. long, and 6 ft. wide, exclusively devoted to fine specimens 
from the Canaries, Teneriffe, Madeira, and South America. We saw in it 
some fine statices, alstroemerias, mahonias, berberis, &c. They are preparing 
a border about 500 yards in length, and 9 ft. in width, in which to display 
their more choice herbaceous plants and flowering shrubs; and, as to trees, 
you are aware what an extent their arboretum occupies. All this, we take 
it upon us to state from recollection chiefly, but the following list of plants in 
flower was given us in writing by Mr. Penny :—Cineraria céna, Ononis pe- 
duncularis, Taxanthéma pubérula, Lotus spectabilis, Cytisus tetragonocladus 
(a new species, allied to C. canariénsis, both fragrant), Scrophularia elongata, 
Sempervivum cruéntum, Huphérbia atropurpurea, Lavatera acerifolia, Viola 
pulmonénsis.—S., W., and E., M. Guildford, March 23. 1834. 

Scions of a new seedling Pear, which we have called Haydon’s seedling, 
have been sent us by a correspondent of that name, residing at Mount Radford, 
near Exeter. The seed was sown in 1823, and the tree is now a standard, 
16 ft. high. The fruit is ripe about the middle of October, and is remarkable 
for its luscious sweetness, but it does not keep. It began to bear in its ninth 
year, and appears to produce abundantly. This fruit has twice obtained a 
prize. — Sam. Haydon. Mount Radford Terrace, near Exeter, March 19.1834. 

We have sent the scions to the Horticultural Society’s garden, and shall be 
glad to taste the fruit, when the season for doing so arrives. — Cond. 


SCOTLAND. 


Woodhall Gardens, Renfrewshire.—On calling here, during a short tour 
which I lately made, I was agreeably surprised to find that, in addition to the 
gardener’s lodge or shed, in which with the rest of the young men I cooked 
my victuals and:slept some years ago, a good-sized room was built, well lighted, 
with a good fireplace, and fitted up with writing-desks, tables, and book- 
shelves. There is a lobby between this and the cooking-room, so that the 
noise produced in that room, by those who do not read, is not heard in the 
reading-room. This last circumstance I consider an important one. A room 
similar to this at Woodhall is wanted in almost every garden in Scotland. — 
Juvenis. Glasgow, March, 1834. 


e 


Floricultural and Botanical Notices. 237 


Art. IV. Floricultural and Botanical Notices of new Plants, and of 
old Plants of Interest, supplementary to the latest Editions of the 
“ Encyclopedia of Plants,” and of the “ Hortus Britannicus.” 


Curtis’s Botanical Magazine; each monthly Number containing eight plates; 
3s. 6d. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Hooker, King’s Professor of 
Botany in the University of Glasgow. 

Edwards's Botanical Register ; each monthly Number containing eight plates ; 
4s. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Lindley, F.R.S., Professor of Botany 
in the London University. 

Sweet's British Flower-Garden; each monthly Number containing four plates ; 
3s. coloured, 2s. 3d. plain. Edited by David Don, Esq., Librarian to the 
Linnzan Society. 


DicotyLeponovus PotyretTatous PLants. 


IX. Crucifere. 
1827a. STREPTA’/NTHUS Nut. (Streptos, twisted, anthos, flower ; claws of petals twisted.) 
5 iS) 


15.2 


obtusifdlius Hook, blunt-Ifd. © orljaus Ro Arkansa 1833, Ls Bot. mag. 3317 


A pretty plant, much resembling Moricandia arvénsis. The stem is simple 
or branched ; the leaves are glaucous, elliptic, stem-clasping. The branches 
terminate in long racemes of numerous flowers; whose petals are of a fine 
rose colour, with a very deep lake-coloured spot at the base of each limb. A 
second species, named S. maculatus, is known in America; but we are not 
informed that this has yet been introduced to Britain. (Bot. MJag., April.) 

XLVI. Cactee. 


1472. CEXREUS. a, [of bot. i. 49. with a figure 
28299a splendidus splendid-corollaed ® _|spl 1sn S Mexico 1831. C.s..ru Paxton’s mag. 
** Epiphyllum Hitchénz [the name of the author of the epithet not stated], scarlet flowers, nearly 
8 in. in diameter ’’ Hitchen in Gard. Mag. Feb. 1833, vol. ix. p. 114.; Epiph¥llum spléndidum 

Paxton in his Magazine of Botany, i. 49., with a coloured figure, April, 1834. 

Its flower, in size and splendour, far surpasses the flower of any other 
species or variety at present known. We obtained it from Mr. Hitchen’s 
celebrated collection of succulent plants, while this collection was in the 
possession of Mr. Hitchen; who has since sold it to Mr. Frederick Mackie, 
nurseryman, Norwich [see p. 63.]. Its flowers were stated to be 10 in. broad ; 
which we feel not the shadow of a doubt about, as ours, though [produced 
by] a very small plant, in October, 1833, measured, when in full blow, 8 in. in 
diameter. Neither the C. speciosfssimus, nor even the C. grandiflorus, will 
bear a comparison with it in size of flower. Its flower is entirely destitute 
of that beautiful purple so characteristic of the flowers of the C. speciosissi- 
mus; and has something of an orange colour, all the petals being nearly 
transparent. In point of the shape of the flower, and in some other respects, 
it bears a good deal of resemblance to the C. speciosissimus. (Paxton’s Ma- 
gazine of Botany and Register of Flowering Plants, April.) 

LXXVII. Leguminose. 


42154. LABLA‘VIA. (The name Labiad means, in Arabic, simply, a twining plant; and is applied 
indiscriminately to the convolvulus and many others of similar habit. I have, besides giving it 
a Latin termination (which should, I think, be always done in the case of barbarous words 
adopted in botanical nomenclature as generic names), also changed the 8 into v: a liberty which 
the genius of the Arabic allows. —D. Don.) 17.4. Sp. 5.— : 

19484 vulgaris as in Hort, Brit., except that the figure in Sw. Fl. Gar. 2. s. 236. is preferable to that in Bot, 
Mag. 896. 

2 purpurea Dec. 

Ldblab purpureus G. Don in Hort. Brit. No. 19485., Délichos purpireus Jac. 

3 albifldra Dec. 

Ldbiab bengalénsis G. Don in Hort. Brit. No. 19486.; Délichos bengalénsis Jac.; and Mr. D. Don 
teaches, in Sw. Fl. Gar. 2. s. 236. (and, in doing so, goes farther than Decandolle), that the follow- 
ing names are but synonymes of this variety : — Ddlichos Albus Lowr., D. Ldblab Gertner, Lab- 
Zab nankinicus Savi, and Lablab leucocarpus Save. 


Lablavia vulgaris is cultivated in India, China, Egypt, and many other 
countries of the East, and also in the West India Islands, on account of its 
legumes, which are prepared and eaten in the manner those of kidneybeans 


238 floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


arein Europe. It is an extremely showy plant; and is admirably suited for 
being trained to trelliswork or over a veranda. Mr. Little, nurseryman, 
King’s Road, Chelsea, has cultivated it for some years as an ornamental 
plant ; and he finds it to be quite as hardy, and to require the same treatment, 
as the kidneybean. Its seeds ripen in the open air. (Zhe Brit. flow.-Gard., 
April.) 

CLVII. Begoniacez. 

2654. BEGO‘NTA. [Bot. reg. 1668 
428661 heracletfoléa Schlecht. & Cham. WHeracieum-Ifd. 3% AJor2allsea Ro Mexico 1831. Orm 

B. radiata Graham in Edin. New Phil. Journ. July, 1833. 

It is a very free-growing hot-house plant, producing its rosy flowers in 
every month of the year. All that it demands at the hands of the cultivator 
are, heat, moisture, and a full exposure to light. If kept too much in the 
shade, the flowers lose the bright rosy tint which is natural to them, and with 
it their beauty. Some of the leaves produced by this species are 7 in. across. 
Plants of it are in the Edinburgh Botanic Garden, the London Horticultural 
Society’s garden, and in other gardens. (Bot. Reg., April.) 


DicoryLeponous Monoretatous PLants. 


CXC. Cinchonacee. 


389. MANE’TTIA. [Sw. fl. gar. 2. s. 233 
glabra Cham. & Schlecht. smooth-surfaced $ \_jor 5? au.d S Buenos Ayres 1831. C pl 
M. cordifdlia Hooker in Bot. Mag. t. 3202., Gard. Mag. 9. 107. 
** It is, doubtless, the M. glabra of Chamisso and Schlechtendal; who enumerate, in the Linnea, 
several other nearly related species, differing chiefly in the degree of pubescence, and in the 
proportions of the calycine segments. — D. Don. 


This is an exceedingly elegant plant: its delicate and graceful form, and its 
long (14in.), tubular, scarlet corollas, contrasted with its broad deep green 
leaves, render it one of the most beautiful objects that can well be conceived. 
Mr. Neill of Canonmills, near Edinburgh, has raised and possesses this plant. 
It thrives in soil composed of peat and loam. “ It will doubtless succeed 
well in the open border during summer.” (The Brit. Flow.-Gard., April.) 

CXCVI. Apociynee. 


ALY’XIA R. Br. In the Bot. Mag. for April, this genus is much elucidated. Mr. Allan 
Cunningham has supplied the distinctive characters, synonymes, and habitats of eleven species. 
A. actinophylla Cun., spicata R. Br., tetragona &. Br., stellata R. & S., lavrina Gaudichaud, 
obtusifolia A. § S., scandens #. & S., Gynopdgon FR. & S, daphnoldes Cun., ruscifdlia #. Br., 
Suxifodlia R. Br. Dr. Hooker has added to these the names of six other species, which are also 
known; namely, A. odorata Waill., stellata R. Br., calophylla Waill., lucida Waill., oliveeférmis, 
and Torresééna. This enumeration is accompanied by a figure of A. daphnoides Cun., and one 
of A. ruscifdlia R. Br.; and detailed descriptions, by Mr. Cunningham, of these two species. 
From these descriptions, and those in the enumeration, we revise the species given in Hort. Brit. 
p. 67. and 580. 
532. ALY’XTA. ; 
4373. Gynopdgon #. & S. bearded-styled a ~_JorS5 ... WwW Norfolk Island 1831. C pl 


Gynopdgon Alyxia Forster, Alyxia Férsteri Cun. MSS. 1830, Loudon’s Hort. Brit. No. 28594. 
4374 daphnoides Cun. Daphne-like mj fra? 52 W Norfolk I. 1831. C p.l Bot. mag. 3313 


4374a ruscifdlia #. Br. Butcher’s broom-lfd.# __|fra 5 aun W N. Holl. 1820. C p.l_ Bot. mag. 3312 
A. Richardsdnz Swt., Loudon’s Hort. Brit. No. 4373. ; Gynopdgon pugioniférmis Cun. MSS. 1828 ; 
Alyxia pugioniférmis Cun., Loudon’s Hort. Brit. No. 28595. 
More of the species enumerated above may be extant, alive, in British collections; but it is not 
stated that more than the three which we have tabulated are. 


The alyxias are not attractive-looking shrubs; but their foliage is pleasing: 
and the leaves are, in several of the species, disposed four in a whorl ; the 
flowers, small and white, are, in A. ruscifolia, “ exceedingly fragrant, smelling 
like jasmine ;” and, it appears, in some other species as well. (Bot. Mag., 
April.) 

537. ECHWTES. 


stellaris Lindl. star-eyed-corollaed $ [Jor 10? au Ro.Y RioJaneiro 1831. R p.} Bot. reg. 1664 
Its characters approach nearly to those of Z. pubéscens Willd. . 


A tender, stove, climbing plant, introduced by the Hon. Robert Gordon to 
the Horticultural Society. In the month of August, its flowers [which are 
represented as produced in corymbose clusters, each of about fourteen flowers, 
and these severally wider, in the spread of the limb, than a shilling is broad] 
perfume the part of the hot-house in which it is placed with a delightful smell 
of primroses..... We have named it with reference to the coloured eye of 


supplementary to Eincyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 239 


the corolla; which, being deep rosy red in the centre, with five starry lobes, 

bordered with a sort of orange yellow, gives a striking appearance to the 

flowers. . stellaris grows readily in peat and loam; but is scarcely to be 

propagated except by cuttings of the root. (Bot. Reg., April.) j 
CXCIX. Convolvuldcee. 


491. IPOMG:*A. [Bot. mag. 3315 


4083a Horsfallie Hook. Mrs. Horsfall’s $ ([]spl 20 d.ja Ro Africa? East Indies? 1831? C pl 


“ Unquestionably one of the most beautiful of all the species to descriptions 
of which I have had access, as well as of a most extensive collection of spe- 
cies of the genus in my herbarium. The seeds, from which plants of it have 
been raised, were received by Charles Horsfall, Esq., Everton; under the care 
of whose very skilful gardener, Mr. Henry Evans, the plants produced their 
lovely blossoms, in great profusion, during December, 1833, and Jan. 1834: 
a season when so gay a visiter to the stove is particularly welcome..... 
Leaves quinate, upon rather long petioles. Peduncles axillary, about as long 
as, or longer than, the petiole, bearing a dichotomous cyme of many flowers. 
Corolla funnel-shaped, spread at the top to the width of a penny-piece; of a 
very deep rich and glossy rose colour, equally dark within and without. (Bot. 
Mag., April.) 

CCXI1. Scrophularinee. 


1775. LINA‘RIA 4 ii. Prostrate. [S sl Sw. fl. gar. 2. s, 235 
15789a circinata D. Don curve-/fd. 2.? %? 6? Y? A? _jorzjnjl Y N. Africa? Buenos Ayres? 1833. 


A pretty species, with small revolute leaves, arrow-shaped at the base ; and 
with a good proportion of flowers, whose corollas are “ larger than those of 
L. vulgaris.” It is, therefore, among small prostrate plants, a showy one. 
Mr. Anderson of the Chelsea Botanic Garden has raised the species from 
exotic seeds. (The Brit. Flow.-Gard., April.) 


1783, MI’MULUS. [i. 54. with a figure 


Smithz Mr. Smith’s y¥ Alor Zfn Y.Spot Eng. hyb. 1832. D p.l Paxton’s mag. of bot. 


IM. Smithz and M. Yoingz, which bear a very close resemblance to each 
other, are the most beautiful kinds of Mimulus known. MM. Smithii is a 
hybrid, raised probably between the J. rivularis and M. variegatus. It par- 
takes much of the habit of JM. rivularis, and produces flowers profusely. 
(Pacton’s Magazine of Botany, April.) Mr. Dennis, nurseryman, Chelsea, 
possesses plants of the JZ. Smithw. 

Scrophularinee § 3 Gratiolee. 


1787a. ARTANE*‘MA D. Don. (Artad, to append, néma, a filament; a toothis borne on one side of 


each of the longer filaments.) 14.2. Sp. L— [Bot.mag.3104 

fimbriatum D. Don fringed-corollaed yg \_J or 3 jn.aut Pa.B Moreton Bay 1830. Cp.l 

orem scAbra Grah., Loudon’s Hort. Brit. No. 29293., Bot. Cab. 1990., Bot. Mag. 3104., Gard. 
ag. 9. 707. ; 

We consider it essentially distinguished from Torénia by its deeply-parted calyx, the serrated lobes 
of its corolla, the structure of its stamens, the form and consistence of its capsule, and, finally, 
by its large succulent placenta. — D. Don. 

Artanéma fimbriatum will be found, although usually treated as a green- 
house plant, to succeed in the open border during the summer months ; freely 
producing its blossoms and ripening its seeds. It should be planted in a 
mixture of peat and loam; and is increased by seeds or by cuttings. The 
plant has a good deal of the aspect of a Mimulus ; its blossoms are large and 
showy; and we consider it an interesting addition to the gardens. Mr. Neill 
of Canonmills, Edinburgh, Messrs. Loddiges, and, doubtless, others, possess 


the plant. (The Brit. Flow.-Gard., April.) 


MonocoTyLepoNous PLANTS. 
CCXXXVIII. Amaryllidee. 


969. AMARY’LLIS 7992 atilica ‘* seems liable to much variation. We [Dr. Hooker] have represented 


a splendid variety, in Bot. Mag. t. 2983., with green lines in the centre, running nearly the whole 
length of each petal; with a very obsolete glandular disk ; and with long narrow glaucous-leaves. 
Between this variety, and the variety platyp¢étala Lindley in Bot. Reg. t. 1038., and the original 
A. atilica Ker in Bot. Reg. t. 444., our present plant [figured in the Bot. Mag. for April, 1834, 
t. 3311.] seems intermediate. The points in which our plant differs from the A. atlica Ker are, 
the petals are less sharply acuminate, and the base of the petals is of a darker green, The bulb 


240 Retrospective Criticism. 


was presented to the Glasgow Botanic Garden by —— Pearson, Esq. ; who had brought it from 
the neighbourhood of Rio Janeiro, in Brazil, where it is a native.” (Bot. Mag., April.) A. atlica 
itself, and all varieties of it, are, when in flower, superb plants. 
935. ISMEXNE 7642 Amancaes } 

2 sulphirea Herb. sulphureous.flwd. ¥ (jor 3... Su Eng. hybrid 1829. O sp Bot. reg. 1665 

It has been originated from a seed of Isméne Amdncaes which had been fertilised by the pollen of 
I. calathina Herbert. [In Hort. Brit., the neuter adjective calathinum is wrongly associated with 
Isméne, instead of the feminine calathina. ] 

A very ornamental hybrid ; and interesting, in evidencing the great change 
which has been wrought by the impression of the male species. The colour 
of the flower is intermediate ; and the scent, though powerful, is not delight- 
fully fragrant as in calathina, nor so disagreeable as that of Amancaes. The 
constitution is vigorous, like that of the former species; from which it 
also inherits a more robust stature and less attenuated leaves. (Herbert in 
Bot. Reg., April.) 

CCXL. Orchidee. 


9530. CATASE‘TUM. 
liridum Lindl. lurid-flwd. €@@Xlor1sn G.Y.Br Brazil 1832. D r.w.Lpotsh Bot. reg. 1667 


Although it cannot be compared for beauty with Catasétum tridentatum, it 
is, nevertheless, an interesting species. The spots cn the lip are of the 
deepest and richest ruddy brown; while the horns of the column may be 
compared to the fore legs of some spider, lurking in the bosom of the flower 
to seize upon the victims that may enter it. Plants of this species are pos- 
sessed by Messrs. Loddiges, Mr. Knight, Mr. Bateman, and the London 


Horticultural Society. 
CCLI. Lihdcee. 


3337. CYCLOBO’THRA Swi. (Kyklos, a circle, bothros, a pit; a circular depression, which is 
nectariferous, in each petal.) 6.1. Sp. 5— 

ittea Lindl. yellow-petaled ¥& Aj or 13 aus Y Mexico 1827. Op.1 Bot. reg. 1663 
C. barbata Szvz. in Brit. Flow.-Gard. 1. s. 273., Loudon’s Hort. Brit. No. 28170., where the synonyme 

Fritillaria barbata Kth. should, according to what follows, be cancelled. 
¢¢ When this plant was first introduced, it was supposed to be the same as the Fritillaria barbata 
t published in M. Kunth’s account of the plants discovered by Humboldt and Bonpland ; but we 
learn, from the last volume of Rémer and Schultes, that that species has a bearded horseshoe mark 
on its sepals, no trace of which can be found in the plant now figured. We are, therefore, unwill- 
ingly obliged to amend the name by which this has hitherto been known: a name which would 
be untenable even if Fritillaria barbata were the same plant, because it [expressive of the bearded 
inward face of the petals] is equally applicable to every species of the genus. (Bot. Reg., April.) 
Cyclobéthra Alba and pulchélla, described in our last, in p. 179., are figured in the Bot. Reg. for 
April; C. pulchélla Bot. Reg. 1662. ; C. alba Bot. Reg. 1661. In Bot. Reg. 1662., a synopsis of the 
known species of the genus is supplied, which are shown to be nine in number ; but only four, or 

at most five, of these have been yet introduced (alive) into Britain. 


CCLVI. Arotdee. 


2672. CALASDIUM. [Bot. mag. 3314 
234890 fragrantissimum Hook. most fragrant € § [_]4? fra ja Crea.R Demerara 1832? Cs.p 


Introduced from Demerara, to the Liverpool Botanic Garden, by C. S 
Parker, Esq. It is a species with an extending rooting stem; petiole 2 ft. or 
more long; expansion of the leaf 14 ft. to 2 ft. long, oblongo-cordate. Spathe 
almost 9 in. long, cream-coloured, in its lower part richly tinged with red. 
“ The whole inflorescence yields a fragrance, which I [Dr. Hooker] can only 
Apel) with that of the O'lea fragrans, but far more powerful.” (Bot. Mag., 
April. 


Art. V. Retrospective Criticism. 


CorRECTION.— In “ hedges of yew are of low growth,” in p. 185., lines 14. 
and 15., for “ low” read “ slow.” 

Decandolle’s Theory of the Rotation of Crops. —In the February Number 
of the Gardener’s Magazine is an article entitled an “ Investigation of the 
theory of the rotation of crops; by the author of the Domestic Gardener’s 
Manual ;” a very interesting subject to the gardener and vegetable physio- 
logist. The writer seems to claim at least a share of priority in the discovery 
of what is termed “ De Candolle’s theory ;” assuming that trees and plants 
emit excrementitious matter into the soil, hurtful to some and favourable to 
the growth of other plants. In the progress of scientific knowledge, it is not 


Retrospective Criticism. 241 


at all uncommon to find different men simultaneously discovering the same 
physical facts; and we are not sure but Mr. Shirreff of Mungoswells, East 
Lothian, a scientific farmer, might also claim kindred with this popular bant- 
ling; for it is several years since he recorded the same opinions, in an essay 
on “ The gregarious nature of grasses.” [See Quart. Jour. of Agric., vol. ii. 
p. 242.] Gardeners, of all others, have an excellent opportunity of investi- 
gating this theory ; and we recommend this and similar articles to their serious 
attention. (G. in the Dundee, Perth, and Cupar Advertiser, March 14. 1834.) 

Directions for dissolving Indian Rubber by Means of Pyroligneous Ether. 
[IX. 243.]— When a work is put forth in the style which distinguishes the 
Encyclopedia of Gardening, it is but reasonable to expect correctness at least 
in the information it professes to afford, beyond all other publications. A 
specimen of that correctness may be found in the Number for April, 1833, 
which contains directions for dissolving Indian rubber by means of pyroligneous 
ether. Had you known any thing of the matter, you must be aware that 
“ pyroligneous ether”’ will not act upon caoutchouc in any way. What was 
the solvent you might intend under that name is not to be divined.— Anon. 
with the Hereford postmark, Feb. 17. 1834. 

[We sent this letter to Mr. Mallet, and have received the following reply.] 

I have returned the anonymous note which you sent me. Although ad- 
dressed to you, I am alone responsible for the charge which it contains. This 
note is full of mistakes. The writer first mistakes you, the conductor of the 
Magazine, for the author of my notice respecting the solution of Indian 
rubber ; secondly, he mistakes the Encyclopedia of Gardening for the Gar- 
dener’s Magazine ; thirdly, he mistakes the number in which the article in 
question occurs; and, lastly, he mistakes in the general assertion of his note, 
viz. “ that pyroligneous ether will not act upon Indian rubber in any way.” 
As this is a simple assertion of fact, it does not admit of argument: I, therefore, 
only say, if the author of the note remains incredulous on the subject, and 
will venture to come forward, I will send you some of the solution for his in- 
spection. A word or two more may possibly enlighten him as to the origin of 
his mistake. The fluid to which the name of pyroligneous ether is applied, 
differs much in its properties, as obtained from different manufactories: some 
of it will dissolve Indian rubber, and some of it will not. For the truth of 
this he may have the authority of Berzelius :—“ Les contradictions que pre- 
sentent ces données sur des expériences aussi simples, paroissent indiquer 
qu'il existe plusieurs espéces d’esprits pyroligneux qui ont de l’analogie sous 
certains rapports, mais différent les uns des autres par quelques-unes de leurs 
propriétés.” (Traité, &c., tom. vi. p. 674.) I confess myself to blame in 
not having noticed this in my former observations upon this menstruum. 
However, since I made that communication, I have found that there is no 
solvent of Indian rubber so good for gardening and most other purposes, as 
refined coal tar, sold under that name by drug merchants, which is only com- 
mon coal tar deprived of water by boiling. — Robert Mallet. 24. Capel Street, 
Dublin, March 19. 1834. 

‘Mr. Munro’s Suggestion (p. 551.) for the Formation of a Sylvan’ Society 
I am much pleased with,,and I agree with him in almost all he says on the 
subject. I seldom pass by other people’s woods or plantations but my fingers 
itch to thin, and weed, and prune out. In short, as Mr. Munro has truly 
said, “ the greater proportion of our woods, from neglect or mismanagement, 
look as if they belonged to nobody.” —W. T. Bree. Allesley Rectory, near 
Coventry, Warwickshire, Oct. 19. 1833. 

The Oak Trees which turn away their Heads from the South-west (p. 548.), 
described by Mr. Clarke, are by no means peculiar to his part of the country 
[Poole, Dorsetshire]. Years ago, I was much struck with the same thing in 
the Isle of Wight, and have often said, that, were I ignorant of the points of 
the compass, I could immediately discover them by looking at an_oak tree. 
Even in Warwickshire, in exposed situations, the oak trees show their aversion 
to the south-west, by turning away their heads from that quarter. — Id. 


Vou. X.— No. 50. R 


242 Queries and Answers. 


Art. VI. Queries and Answers. 


TRAINING the Branches of Espalier Trees downwards. —I shall feel obliged 
to any of your readers for their opinions on the following suggestion, as to 
planting standard apple and pear trees behind espaliers, and traiming the 
branches down over the front. Would it have the effect of increasing the 
fruitfulness of the trees by the inclination of the branches downwards ? — Jas. 
Mitchinson. Pendarves, March 20. 1834. 

Training Trees on Trelliswork arched over the principal Walks of a Garden. 
—Would it not be making the most of a garden, to have trees trained to trellis- 
work over the middle and cross walks? Suppose standards were planted, 
their branches might be trained over to the side opposite to that of the stem 
and roots, which would give an inclination downwards, the real effect of 
which I should be glad to be informed of ? Would not iron bars, an inch 
square, fixed in stones, and placed at proper distances, with cross-bars from 
one upright to another, as stiffeners, and small rods of a quarter of an inch in 
diameter, put through holes at about 8 in. distance, make a very light and cheap 
trellis for this purpose ? It would also be very durable, if kept well painted. 

The Wyken Pippin Apple. — 1 think I have heard that this favourite apple 
was raised from seed in the neighbourhood of Coventry, and that every cottage 
garden in that part of Warwickshire has a tree or two of it growing in it. Can 
any of your readers tell me if this is correct, and where the parent tree is to 
be found? The tempestuous wind at the beginning of last September blew 
down the finest old apple tree in this nursery ; the stem of which measured 
more than 5 ft. in girth; its branches extending many yards. We suppose 
this tree to have been about eighty years old; it was a Wyken pippin; and 
plants from it were easily distinguished by their peculiarly upright growth 
when the trees were young, and by the flatness and spotted yellow skin, with 
a rich aromatic flavour, of the fruit, when it was ripe. — Z’. Rivers, jun. Saw- 
bridgeworth Nursery, Feb. 1834. 

[In the second volume of this Magazine (p. 486.) our correspondent will 
find all the particulars of which he desires to be informed | 

Packing Grapes. (p. 84.) — The following is the mode of packing grapes 
which I adopted with success for many years, having to send them nearly 
three hundred miles. A box having been prepared, a bed of clean wool, well 
separated, was laid in the bottom, on which a layer of grapes was placed; each 
bunch being separately enveloped in tissue paper. A portion of wool was 
then introduced between each bunch, and all the interstices filled up with it, 
and then a layer of wool put over the top. For a second layer, a small ledge 
of wood was fixed at each end in the box at the level wanted, and a thin board 
made to fit in easily, so as to fall down upon the ledges; in the board there 
were two finger-holes made with an inch centre-bit ; and the board, being fixed 
down upon the ledges, with a couple of small brads at each end, driven in 
half-way, a second layer of grapes was laid in as above, and so on for a third 
layer, if wanted. I think Mr. Wilson will find the above method of fixing in 
the separation board an improvement upon his mode; at least I prefer red it, 
after trying both ways. The finger-holes I also found very convenient for 
getting out “the board, after drawing the small brads with a pair of pincers. In 
cases where wool is an object, or may be thought too expensive, moss well 
dried, cleaned, and thrashed, will be found a tolerably good substitute; but 
the superior elasticity of the wool renders it patra — T. Rutger. Short- 
grove, Feb. 1834. 

The Cornish Hollick.— There is an A’lltum grown in some of the cot- 
tagers’ gardens in Cornwall, which is commonly called there hollock, or 
hollick, and the tops of which are used by the common people for making 
pies. I should be glad to know its botanical name; also the botanical name 

that is attached to the variety of A/llium Cépa, called the potato onion.— 
T. Rutger. Shortgrove, Jan, 1834, [As to the latter, A. Cépa var. aggregatum.] 


at Bishopstoke Vicarage, Hampshire. 125 


most select trees. It is a perfect gem of botanical beauty in the 
foreground, heightened in effect by interesting gleams of distant 
scenery, seen between and over fine oaks and elms, on the lower 
part of the declivity. 

In order to give our readers a correct idea of the details of 
this garden, so exceedingly rich in choice plants, we applied to 
Mr. Garnier for a ground plan; and he has obligingly had one 
prepared for us, of which jig.11.is an engraving. He has also 
sent us a small view of the vicarage house. (jig. 10.) The fol- 
lowing are the details of the plan: — 

1. Hhododéndron maximum, new. 2. Pink-flowering thorn. 3. Bed of a variety of choice roses. 

4. Bed of pinks in summer, China asters in autumn. 5, Cornus flérida. 6. &hododéndron, 

a new variety. 7. Rhododéndron catawbiénse. 8. Small bed of Verbéna chameedrifodlia. 


9. Large azalea. 
10. A’rbutus. 11. Portugal laurel. 12. Laurustinus. 13. Bed of heartseases. 14. Variegated 


rhododendron. 15. Rhododéndron datiricum atro-virens. 16. Large narrow-leafed bay. 
a Rhododéndron pénticum. 18. Two superb elms, 19. Bed of a variety cf herbaceous 
plants. 


20. Azalea dedifdlia (indica alba). | 21. Round bed of herbaceous plants. 22. Rhododéndron pén- 
ticum. 23. Rhododendron, hybrid. 24. Rhododendron, hybrid. 25. Oval bed of pelar- 


goniums, stocks, and sorts of Résa odorata. 26. Laurustinus. 27. Rhododéndron voseum. 
28. Kalmza latifolia. 29. Clump of American plants. “ 
30. Humea élegans. 31. Oval bed of choice herbaceous plants. 32. Large Rhododéndron 


arbdreum. 33. Peonia Moutan. 34. Rhododéndron alta-clerénse. 35. Magndl¢a grandi- 
flora, 26 ft. square. 
Growing under veranda : — 36. Caméllia japénica myrtif dlia. Camélléa striped, orange-leafed myrtle, 


and citron. 37. Magnificent broad.leafed myrtle. &8. Caméllia japénica atrérubens. 
39. Camélla japénica, double white. 40. Caméllia japénica Pomponia. 41, Camélléa 
japénica peonieflora, and double striped ; and stand of pelargoniums. 

42. Magnolia grandiflora. 43. Rosa Banksie. 44. Magnolia purpurea. 45. Jasminum 


revoliitum. 46. Magnolia grandiflora, 30 ft. high. 47. Noisette rose. 48. Long bank of 
the choicest American plants, chiefly consisting of the new hybrid rhodcdendrons ; and in- 
cluding all the new varieties of Azalea indica. 49. Vibarnum licidum. 

50. Adzcuba japonica. 51. Vase containing pelargoniums, blue lobelias, and Lophospérmum eru- 
béscens. 52. Rhododéndron catawbiénse, variety. 53. Standard Magndléa grandiflora. 
54, Vase, containing scarlet pelargoniums and Maurandya@ Barclayd@na. 55. Standard Caméllza 
japénica, 56. Azalea rhododendron, hybrid. 57. Magnodléa purptrea. 58. Vase, contain- 
ing pelargoniums, and Verbéna chameedrifdlia. 59. Very large elm, with seats. 

60. Rhododéndron arbdreum. 61. Vase of scarlet pelargoniums, and pink Mauréndya [? semper- 
fldrens]. 62. Ficus elastica. 63. Red cedar. Juniperus virginiana. 64. Bed of pinks in 
summer, China astersin autumn. 65. Adzcubajapénica. 66. Nérium plénum [? N. Oleander 
var. spléndens]. 67. Round bed of scarlet and white varieties of georgina. 68. Oval bed of 
herbaceous plants. 69. Fachsia gracilis. 

70. Chiondnthus [?] falgida. 71. Bérberis diversifdlia. 72. Vacca gloridsa. 73. Oval bed of 

'  Rodsa odorata and of Calvert’s Noisette roses. 74. Pinus Webbidna. 75. Oval bed of tree 
and dwarf roses. 76. Azalea indica alba. 77. Large standard single-flowered camellia. 
78. Oval bed of varieties of hybrid rhododendrons and azaleas. 79. Rhododéndron arbodreum. 

80. Large mass of rhododendrons. 81. Round bed of choice azaleas. 82. Rhododéndron mag- 
nolief olium. 83. Azalea nudifldra coccinea. 84. Bed of varieties of georginas. 85. Ligtis- 
trum lucidum. 86. Kalm/a latifolia. 87. Aristotélia Mdcqui, new variety. 88. Bed of 
hydrangeas. 89. Araucdaria imbricata. 


Vou. X.-— No 49. *y 7 


126 Garden of the Rev. Thomas Garnier, 


90. Clump of rhododendrons. “91. Round bed of georginas. 92, Edwardséa grandiflora. 
93. Three fine elms in a group. 94. Photinia serrulata. 95. Large vase. 96. Rhododén- 
dron microphyllum. 97. Very large rhododendron. 98. Oval bed of choice herbaceous 


plants. 99. A very large spreading oak tree, with seats. 

100. Bed of choice herbaceous plants. 101. Magndlia auriculata. _ 102. Malachodéndron ovatum. 
103. Magnd/za glatica. 104. Very large clump of rhododendrons. 105. Cotoneaster micro- 
phylla. 106. Bed of sorts of Chinese chrysanthemums. 107. Rhododendron azalea, hybrid. 
108. Bed of twelve of Calvert’s new varieties of Rdsa odorata and standard perpetuals. 109. Gor- 
dodnia pubéscens. 

110. Drace‘na australis. 111. Standard Cydonia japénica. 112. Azalea. 113. Bed of choice 
azaleas. 114. Magndlza citrioddra. 115. Pxodnia Moutan rdsea. 116. Pyrus spectabilis, 
large. 117. Edwardsia grandifldra. 118. Large arbutus. 119. Daphne péntica. 

120. Chimondanthus fragrans, 121. Large Rhododéndron catawbiénse. 122. Large rhododen- 
dron and large bay tree. 123. Kalmza latifolia. 124. Oval bed of choice herbaceous plants. 
125. Magnolia conspicua. 126. Magnolia cordata. 127. Round bed of Lobélza falgens and 
of double tuberoses. 128. Magndlia maxima. 129, Eriobétrya japénica. 


130. Round bed of tree and dwarf roses. 131. Magndl¢a Thompsonzana. 132. Magndlza pur- 
pirea. 133. Magndléa macrophylla. 134. Oval bed of dwarf georginas. 155. A’rbutus 
procéra, 136. Magndlza acuminata. 137. Clump of rhododendrons. 138. Bed of pelar- 
goniums, border of German stocks. 139. Covered seat made with reeds. 


140. Fachsza microphylla. 141. Rhododéndron Smithiz. 142. Clump of evergreens and rhodo- 
dendrons. 143. Oval bed of choice azaleas. 144. Round bed of camellias. 145. Pxdnia 


Motitan papaveracea. 146. Bed of rhododendrons. 147. Yticca gloridsa. 148. Horse- 
chestnut, with a seat. 149. Deciduous cypress. 

150. Myrtle. 151. Oval bed of herbaceous varieties of Pxdnia. 152. Portugal laurel. 
153. Kalmza latifolia. 154. Rhododéndron maximum, new variety. 155. Azalea indica 
alba. 156, Cupréssus lusitanica. 157. Magndlia glaica. 158. Round bed of azaleas. 
159. Weeping willow. 

160. Bérberis fascicularis. 161. Osminda regalis. 162, Oval bed of herbaceous plants. 


163. Pinus occidentalis. 164. Oval bed of Calvert’s Noisettes. 165. Ahododéndron arboreum 
maximum. 166. Rhododéndron 7dseum. 167. Oval bed of herbaceous plants. 168. Aris- 
totelia Macquz. 169. Magndlia purpirea. 


170. Bed for georginas. 171. Araucaéria brasiliana. 172. Drace‘na ovata. 173. Cedar of. 
Lebanon. 174. Magndlia glatica. 175. Vaccinium uligindsum. 176. Rhododendron 
maximum, old variety. 177. Kalma latifolia. 178. Single red camellia, 5ft. high. 


179. Rhododéndron alta-clerénse. 
180. Magndlia tripétala. 181. Oval bed of Cydonia japénica, red and white. 182. Large azalea. 


at Bishopstoke Vicarage, Hampshire. 127 


179 17 
176 177 $s 
ple = 


fist 


r= 


1625 


183. Round bed of georginas. 184. Magnolia Thompson7zana. 185. Round bed of Verbéna 
chamzdrifolia and of Thunbérgza alata. 186. Ribes sanguineum. 187. Rhododéndron 
ponticum. 188. Rhododendron. 189. Oval bed of azaleas. 

190. Bed of Verbéna vendsa. 191. Sophora japonica péndula. 192. #’/sculus rubictinda (7dsea 
Bot. Reg.). 193. Robinza hispida arborea. 194. Bed of herbaceous plants. 195, Chionan- 
thus maritima. 196. Oval clump of rhododendrons. 197. A’rbutus longifolia. 198. Cra- 


te ‘gus Azarélus. 199. Rhododendron catawbiénse. 

200. Myrtle. 201. Large yellow azalea. 202. Variegated holly. 203. Broussonétza papyrifera. 
904. Chiondnthus virginica. 205. Juniperus bermudiana. 206. Round bed of azaleas, 
907. Large American bed. 208. Late-flowering azalea. 209. Magndlia auriculata. 

210. Oval bed of varieties of Lobéléa. 211. Sophodra japonica. 212. Oval bed for flowers. 


213. Erica arborea, 214. Rhododendron, new variety. 215. Rhododendron. 216. Raphid- 
lepis indica. 217. Iex myrtifolia. 218. Bed of anemone-flowered georginas. 219, Cun- 
ninghamia lanceolata. 

990, Round bed of varieties of pelargoniums. 921. Diospyrus Lotus. 2292. Gleditschza hérrida. 
993. Rhododéndron maximum, new variety. 294. Large Kalmia latifolia. 295. Prinos 
nepalénsis. 296. Catdlpa syringe folia. 297. Rhamnus latifdlius. 228. Chinese arbor-vite, 
Thija orientalis. 999, Bérberis fascicularis. 

930; Large Magndléa tripétala. 231. Cupréssus pendula [? Schubértéa disticha pendula]. 232. Round 
bed of lily of the valley. 233. Myrtle. 934. Hydrangea. 235. Rhododendron, new 
variety. 236. Arbutus. 237. Bed of Scotch roses. 938. Rhododendron. 239, Schinus. 

240. Holly. 941. Oval bed of American plants. 249. Bed of dark China rose. 243, Ledum 
latifolium. 944, Rhododendron. 245. Round bed of sorts of Hrica. 246. Eugenia, 
947. Rhododendron, 248. Rhododendron, a new variety. 249. Davata denticulata. 

250. Ydcca gloridsa. 251. Variegated rhododendron. 252, Pavia discolor. 253. Round 
clump of American plants. 954. Magnolia cordata, 255. UMex stricta. 256. A’xbutus 
speciosa. 257. Oval bed of China roses. 258. Azalea. 259. Rhododendron. 

260. Seedling rhododendron. 261. Ammyrsine buxifolia. 262. Large bed of rhododendrons. 
263. Dark Ribes sanguineum. 264. Virgilia lutea. 265. Dwarf hollyhocks. 266. Pyrus 
nepalénsis. 267. Bed of hollyhocks. 268. Round bed of Lobélza specidsa, &c. 269. Laburnum. 

970. Rhododendron, in varieties. 971. Bed of double tulips in spring, and scarlet pelargoniums 
in summer. 972. Bed of single tulips in spring, and of heliotropes in summer. 273. Con- 
servatory. 974. Cytisus purptreus. 975. The wall, covered with a collection of choice 
plants. [See p. 129.] 976. The inner circle, occupied by tree roses and dwarf georginas 5 
the two next circles, different sorts of dwarf roses; outer circle, collection of herbaceous plants 
of the brightest colours. 277. Fence of evergreens. 978. Shrubbery of evergreens and 
large trees. 979. Entrance to kitchen-garden, with trellis. 980. Covered seat of wood, 
281. Undulating ground, with large trees. 


#1 8 


128 Garden of the Rev. Thomas Garnier, 


The first thing we saw, on entering Mr. Garnier’s grounds, was 
a Magnolza grandiflora against the house, 27 ft. high and about 
25 ft. wide, which was transplanted in the month of August, 
when in flower, 12 years ago, without sustaining the least injury ; 
the reason being, that every root and fibre was preserved, and 
the latter not exposed to the air for more than five minutes. 
There are other magnolias against the house, equally high. The 
wall, against which are trained so many fine plants, has been 
built about six years, and is about 10 ft. high, with a coping 
projecting about nine inches, and a copper trough to collect the 
rain which falls on it; the latter is found to be a great protection 
to the rocts of the shrubs, and to the herbaceous plants below. 
Among the plants on the wall, the more uncommon are several 
of the New Holland species, of the genera Acacia, Metrosidéros, 
Eucalyptus, Melaleuca, &c. 

The herbaceous plants, at the base of the wall, are several 
Amaryllidee; ixias, and other [rideze; and a good collection of 
mesembryanthemums. Among the plants on the lawn are 
groups of camellias, which stand the winter without any pro- 
tection, the loquat, myrtles, tree rhododendrons, araucarias ; Abies 
Webbzdna, and other rare species; all the magnolias, including 
maxima, and that variety of conspicua which is named citriodora ; 
the former has flowered, but it dropped without the colour having 
been ascertained. We must, from necessity, pass over the names 
of a great number of other valuable plants, as well on the lawn 
as on the wall, and conclude by noticing a very neat span-roofed 
conservatory, designed by Mr. Page, and placed on a plinth of 
three steps, which forms a termination to the terrace walk. 
The outer border of this walk is ornamented with vases, placed 
at regular distances. 

Among the general principles which regulate Mr. Garnier’s 
management, we shall mention three of preeminent importance: 
first, he arranges all his flowers and shrubs in masses of one 
kind, even to the varieties of Georgina, by which he produces 
brilliant masses of the same colour ; secondly, all his groups and 
masses are of plain forms, such as circles, ovals, squares, and 
parallelograms, in the genuine English manner, adopted by 
Mason in the flower-garden at Nuneham Courtenay, and by the 
late Major Price, in the flower-garden at Mongewell ; thirdly, 
he transplants the azaleas, rhododendrons, and other American 
shrubs every year, and at any season of the year, so as to keep 
every individual plant detached from the rest, though close to 
them (we saw some beds of azaleas and rhododendrons, which 
had just been removed, looking perfectly well, notwithstanding 
the extraordinary dryness of the season) ; and, fourthly, his great 
secret in acclimatising, or, in other words, in enabling tender 
plants to stand the winter in the open air, is to have a perfectly 


Covent Garden Market. 243 


Art. VII. Covent Garden Market. 


: From To From To 
The Cabbage Tribe. Be ds od £5. dl£ s. d. 
Cabbage, per dozen: Endive, per score - 016/020 
Whit és - |0 0 9]0 19 || Celery, per bundle (12 to 15) 00 4/010 
Plants or Coleworts. - |0 2 6/0 4 0) cyan salads SPer half sere f A 3 f 20 
Broccoli, per bunch: er punnet - 0 3 
= White y - o - |0 1 6;0 3 6/|| Watercress, wes Guzen small 
Purple oO 3 Ss hO 21010 4 oO bunches 5 - |0 04/0 06 
Legumes. ; Pot and Sweet Herbs. 
Peas, forced, per punnet - | 010 0 0 0 
Kidneybeans, forced, p.hund.|}0 1 6/0 2 0 Taragon, Ber dozen bunches 8 g 8 f 8 % 
| Tabers and Rots Se re ena a Oe HN COR 
per ton 5 0 0!]0 O O||Sage, perdozen bunches - |0 2 0/0 0 0 
Potatoes - § per cwt. 0 5 0/0 O O|| Mint, per dozen bunches - 10 40/000 
per bushel |0 2 6/0 0 O Dried - 010/000 
Kidney, per bushel - - |0 5 0|0 O O|| Peppermint, dried, per dozen 
Scotch, per bushel - |0 30/0 0 0 bunches - 0 10/0 00 
New, per pounds - 0 2 0/0 2 6]| Marjoram, dried, per dozen 
Jerusalem Artichokes, per half| bunches - 0 10;0 00 
sieve A 0 1 0/0 1 6||Savory, dried, per doz. bun. 010;0 00 
Turnips, White, per ‘punch |0 0 1/0 0 2/| Basil, dried, per doz. bunches|0 1 3/0 0 0 
Carrots, per bunch : Rosemary, green, per dozen 
Old - S a - 10 0 4/0 0 6 bunches - 05 0;)0 00 
Young a = - |0 0-6!0 O 8]| Lavender, dried, per dant bun. 03 0/0 00 
Horn O - = 10 1 0/0 1 6}| Tansy, dried, perdoz. bunches} 0 10/0 0 0 
Parsn d - - {0 09/0 1 0 3 
Red Bese io dozen - |0 10/0 1 6|| Stalks and Fruits for Tarts, 
Skirret, per bunch - - |0 16/0 0 0 Pickling, Sc. 
Scorzonera, perbundle - |0 1 0{|0 1 6)| Rhubarb Stalks, perbundle |0 0 9/0 1 6 
Salsify, per bunch = - SO 1 OO 2 d i ff 
Horseradish, perbundle - |0 2 0/0 5 0 Edible Fungi and Fuci. 
adishes : Mushr ttl cl 
Red, per dozen hands (24 to Gre, Rae Aouna, s - é mn G g 5 q 
30 each) 0 0 6/0 O 91) Truffles, per pound: 
Red Turnip, per bunch - |0 0 2/0 0 O English S - 1014 01000 
White Turnip, perbunch | 0 0 13/0 0 2 Foreign, dried so lOm O10.0 0 
The Spinach Tribe. Ai aia Fruits. 
< per sieve = f 
Spinach ee halfsieve - |0 10/100 0 epics; Desserts per bushel: son oul eetoR 
Sorrel, per half sieve - - 10) | ON Aes Gasties: 7 ge =P mtomonlio 14 0 
The Onion Tribe. American - - 10 15 0/)110 0 
Onion ihe easly CUM IE 
Old, per bushel - 9 5.0/0 9 Ol. imacne wc Howenlo os o 
For’ pickling, per half sieve| 0 4 0/0 5 0 Almonds, per peck To 6 lO OO 8 0 
Ciboules, green, per bunch | 0 0 2/0 0 3) ctrawerries, forced, per oz. |0 1 610 2 6 
Leeks, per dozen bunches - |0 0 9)0 1 3 Pinctannlee >P % 
-apples, per pound - |0 5 0/)014 0 
Chives, perdozen roots - |0 16/0 0 0 Grapes, per pound : 
Garlic, per pound so 00 6;0 0 8 Hothouse sd - |010 01110 0 
Shallots, per pound oo 1 O iy OO. & White Portugal : y 0 0 8 010 
B urple Portugal - - 016 
Asparaginous Plants, Cucumbers, frame, per brace | 0 2 0/0 5 0 
Salads, Sc. per dozen - |0 09/0 26 
Asparagus, per 100 - - | 010 0/015 0 Oranges ee hundred - |0 4 0/018 0 
phidd d ling - f (0) 8 8 0 || Bitter Oranges, per hundred : 6 g t 4 0 
ma = - 6 4 0 per dozen - = 20 
Small, per half sieve - |0 50/0 8 0 Eemons per hundred - |O0 4 0/014 0 
Sea-kale, per punnet - |0 1 6/0 2 6/|| Sweet Almonds, per pound O 8 O10 2 § 
Lettuce, per score: Brazil Nuts, per bushel - | 0 14 0/016 0 
Cos o o - |0 1 6]0 2 0O}| Spanish Nuts, per peck - |0 4 0/0 0 0 
Cabbage 5 0 0 3}0 O 6]| Barcelona Nuts, per peck - |0 5 0/0 0 O 


Ghee yntione lhe market has been better supplied with the articles usual 
at this season, than could have been expected from the prevalence of cold wind 
and severe frosts at night, during the present month (up to this date); but a 
comparison of prices will at once show that a deficiency in supply does and 
must necessarily continue to exist for some time to come. Of early spring 
cabbages we have had a tolerable quantity, at fair prices, offering an induce- 
ment to the growers to send them to market prematurely, which will be the 
cause of a deficiency in the ensuing month. The price of coleworts has in- 
creased during the last fortnight materially. Of asparagus the supply of forced 
begins to diminish very perceptibly, and, as the natural has not yet come to 
hand in any quantity, the price of it is considerably higher. Forced sea-kale 
is also almost exhausted, and the natural is realising a ‘better price than it did 
some time since. Spinach comes to hand plentifully, at a reasonable charge. 


24:4 London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Broccoli is furnished in very limited quantities, bringing excellent prices. The 
stock of old onions is getting very short, and, from the prevalence of cold 
weather, rather in demand: within the last month they have doubled in value. 
Old carrots are getting scarce, and as we have no supply of young or new, and 
cannot expect any quantity for some time to come, they will undoubtedly be 
much dearer. Of potatoes we still have abundance, of excellent quality, from 
all parts; but the supply to the metropolis is now so generally furnished direct 
from the Thames, that we have little to do in them until the new are furnished 
in June or July, when this market usually leads in that article, for price, quan- 
tity, and variety. During the last month we have had two or three cargoes of 
Dutch apples, which have kept us in tolerable supply; but for this, our stock 
would have been extremely low: at present it does not exceed a few hundred 
bushels per week. Of American apples there are yet some few in hand, of good 
quality, but, of course, high in price, Strawberries begin to be furnished regu- 
larly, and, since the introduction of the new varieties, of good size and quality. 
Some few pines have also been sent, realising a fair remunerating price ; never- 
theless, they are not at all abundant. Forced grapes are also in moderate 
supply, but not much in demand, as the prices will plainly indicate. Of peas 
we have had a few small parcels (forced), but at present they are not much in 
demand. — April 15. 1834. 


Art. VIII. London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Marcu 8. 1834.— Read. Hints concerning the culture of Melons (par- 
ticularly those of the Hoosainee varieties of the Persian families) as aquatic 
or amphibious plants; by G. J. Towers, Esq. 

Exhibited. Rhododéndron arboreum, from Sir C. Lemon, Bart. Anemone 
horténsis supérba, and four other varieties ; from Mr. James Young, Epsom. 
Phaius grandiflorus, from Mr.G. Mills. Caméllia reticulata, and japdnica 
Colvillz, from Messrs. Chandler. Cockscomb cauliflower, from Col. Hallen ; 
communicated by T. Hoblyn, Esq. [the seeds of this remarkable variety had 
been received from Italy.] 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Camellias, narcissuses, Primula ver- 
ticillata, Cassia laevigata, Bérberis Aquifolium and fascicularis, three sorts of 
Ribes, Evria stellata, Huphérbia bilabris, Echeveéria gibbiflora, &c.; also four- 
teen sorts of apples. 

Distributed. Scions, from the Society’s garden, of the Brabant bellefleur, 
Gravenstein, Pennington seedling, and Boston russet sorts of apples; and of 
the Beurré d’ Aremberg and Forme de délices sorts of pears. 

Price of Tickets of Admission to the ensuing (see p. 189.) Exhibitions at the 
Society's Garden. It was announced, that the price of the tickets would, after 
April 1., be 5s. each: their original price was 3s. 6d. each. 

April 1.— Read. Meteorological Journal for the year 1833, kept in the 
Society’s Garden. 

Exhibited. A seedling heartsease, from Mr. T. Thompson, gardener to 
Lady Gambier, Iver, Bucks. A species of Kennédya, native of New Holland, 
from Boyd Miller, Esq. A seedling auricula, from Mr. Wilmer, Sunbury ; 
and ornamental species of green-house plants, from Mr. Glenny and Mrs. 
Marryatt. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Lachnee‘a eriocéphala, Gompholobium 
polymorphum, Chorézema Henchmanm, Gésnera Douglasz, Indigd6fera spe- 
cidsa, Ornithégalum arabicum, Ribes aureum pree‘cox, and several other 
well-known interesting plants. 

Scions, from the Society’s garden, for distribution, were provided of the 
following varieties of apples : —Red Astrachan, Brickley seedling, Reinette du 
Canada, Pearson’s plate, and Gloria mundi; and of the Fondante d’ Automne 
kind of pear. 


THE 


GARDENER’'S MAGAZINE, 
JUNE, 1834. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Art.I. Notes on Gardens and Country Seats, visited, from July 27. 
to September 16., during a Tour through Part of Middlesex, Berk- 
shire, Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire, Wiltshire, Dorsetshire, Hamp- 
shire, Sussex, and Kent. By the ConpucTor. 


(Continued from p. 194.) 


Hfteuctiere, the Earl of Caernarvon. — Aug. 14. Whoever 
has noticed our remarks on the subject of situation, called forth 
by Bear Wood (IX. 679.), and by Caversham Park (X. 1.), will 
readily conceive that we were delighted with the natural features 
of Highclere. Perhaps, taking the latter altogether, we may 
venture to call it one of the finest places, as far as ground and 
wood are concerned, that we have ever beheld. 

** Highclere is situated just at the point where the chalk 
downs (extending northwards, from the village of Kingsworthy 
on the south of Winchester, to Highclere, a distance of above 
twenty miles) are suddenly interrupted; their northern escarp- 
ment forming two remarkably bold hills, which are the dis- 
tinguishing features of the place, and conspicuous landmarks 
to the surrounding country. One of these, called Sidon 
Hill, is very beautifully wooded: it constitutes the southern ex- 
tremity of the park at Highclere; and, commencing about half 
a mile to the scuth of the mansion, it rises about 400 ft. above 
the valley which lies below it, and 948 ft. above the level of the 
sea. The other, called Beacon Hill, is an outlier to the chalk, 
and is exactly 900 ft. above the level of the sea: it is entirely 
devoid of wood, and its remarkably square and obtuse outline, 
and abrupt termination, together with its smooth surface, form 
a striking contrast to the rich woods of Sidon Hill. ‘These hills 
are separated, by a valley of moderate depth, from the plateau 
of chalk on which the mansion stands. ‘The chalk terminates 
about a quarter of a mile from the house; and the remainder of 
the park, and the adjacent woods, extending between two and three 
miles to the north, are entirely upon diluvial clay, gravel, and 

Vou. X.— No. 51. s 


246 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats :— 


sand, in endless interchange. There are two large pieces of 
water: one of these, called Milford, covers between twenty and 
thirty acres of ground; it is nearly surrounded with natural 
wood, in part of which, on a steep slope, are some very large 
beech trees. The other lake is called Dursmere, and, though 
not so much varied in its contour as Milford, is yet surrounded 
by beautiful scenery.” 

In preceeding from Newbury to Highclere, the road passes 
through a richly cultivated country, having in some places a 
parklike character. In one part, the effect of the trees and 
turf, on both sides of the road, lead the traveller to believe 
that he is passing through a park. Advancing a little, we come 
to a mansion intended for Gothic; and we cannot help feeling 
regret that a builder of so little taste should have been at work 
in such a scene. ‘The road continues in rather a grand style 
for a cross country road, passing a curious corner clump of larch 
trees, which, we were informed, constitute the remains of a nur- 
sery, and which are now 50 ft. high: these trees, small and 
naked in the stem, look like a gigantic crop of oats, rather than 
larches ; and present a striking example of how much the cha- 
racter of a tree may be changed by the circumstances in which it 
is grown. Shortly beyond these larches, and apparently forming 
the termination of a straight line of the road, appears the arch- 
way, which is the main entrance into the park of Highclere. 
The general effect is exceedingly good; but the architectural 
details are objectionable, pilasters being used, not at the angles 
as supports, but in the middle of the wall as ornaments. After 
passing the arch, we find that the first part of the approach 
road leads through a thick wood of caks, hollies, and beeches ; 
as we advance, the eye penetrates to a deep and wild glen on 
the right; shortly after, the scenery opens to the day, anda 
sequestered glade, of three or four acres, surrounded by wood, 
appears to the left: advancing onwards, the wood thickens, and 
gradually approaches close to the road on the left, while the 
scenery opens to the right; and, the road making a gentle turn, 
the upper part of a circular temple, surrounded by a colonnade, 
and surmounted by a dome, appears on a knoll at a short dis- 
tance across a woody vale. ‘The road advancing among park 
scenery, in which exotic trees, such as hoary-leaved limes, 
cedars, &c., begin to be introduced, we see the same temple 
crowning the summit of a bold promontory, to which we gra- 
dually ascend. ‘The effect of this temple is exceedingly good, 
not only from the approach, but from every other part of the 
grounds. Its architecture is faulty, inasmuch as its colonnade is 
interrupted, and the wall which supports its deme is not shown 
above the entablature; but these faults are lost in the feeling of 
gratification experienced on observing such an object placed 


FIighclere. 2A7 


in so fitting a situation. Pausing at this temple, and looking 
from it to the lower grounds, we observe a large sheet of water 
losing itself, in three “Freetions, among well-tafted woods. The 
stranger may now be considered as “initiated in the charms of 
the place, and he advances forwards, expecting the continuation 
of what he has hitherto experienced, new beauties at every 
step. Nor is he disappointed: for, on the one hand, Milford 
‘Water, and varied views of rich distant scenery, supply the most 
ennobling landscapes; while, on the other, the two striking hills 
which form the boundary of the park are leading features. . In 
addition to these objects, the house is seen, for the first time, 
when we are about three quarters of a mile distant from it; it is 
soon lost again, and we do not catch another glimpse of it till 
we are very near it. Its first appearance is exceedingly grand, 
standing on an elevated table land, backed by the two hills 
before mentioned, and commanding a most extensive range of 
distant country in front. All that we shall farther say of the 
approach is, that the wood on each side of it is disposed so 
admirably that there is not a tree that we could wish to alter. 
The prominences and recesses of the masses correspond with the 
elevations and declivities of the surface in some places, thus fol- 
lowing up and increasing the variety indicated by nature; while 
in others they are found on declivities, so as to create variety and 
intricacy where none naturally existed. ‘There is scarcely a 
point, along the whole of this approach, at which an artist might 
not stop and sketch a landscape that would be well-propor tioned 
in its great component parts; and at least harmonious, if not 
striking, in its details. Arriving at the pleasure-ground, we 
discovered that the house, the road to it, and some of its 
accompaniments, are unfinished; and, therefore, we shall not 
consider them as subjects of criticism. The mansion-house, 
which was much altered within, and entirely cased with Bath 
stone without, by the late earl, who died in the spring of the 
year 1833, leaving it unfinished, is a square building, showing 
three facades, en about 110 ft. in extent of frontage. alive 
style of architecture adopted is the Grecian Ionic, as used in 
the Erectheum at Athens. ‘The casing with Bath stone, we 
think a needless expense, when it is known that walls of 
brick, covered with Roman cement, are much stronger and 
ang more durable than any vail of brick conjointly with 
stone. The elevations of the three sides, nearly completed, 
are plain, and unobjectionable; with the exception of double 
pilasters at the angles, instead of returned ones, which does 
away with the idea of pilasters as representations of pillars 
of support. The chimney tops are also much too low, and 
very unarchitectural in their forms. ‘The terrace basement 
is wanting; but this, with various other appendages, will 

5 2 


4 


248 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats :— 


no doubt be added before the place is completed. In the 
interior are some good-sized rooms, particularly the library. 
Notwithstanding all this, we are of opinion, that, to produce a 
house suitable to the situation, the cheapest and best way would 
have been to pull the whole down and rebuild it. The views 
from the house, on the entrance front, are singularly grand. To 
the right, they command the park scenery, with its high hilly 
outline of wood as the boundary, and the temple beforemen- 
tioned seen rising from a wooded valley. ‘To the left lies the 
valley of the Kennet, several miles in width; a rich hilly corn 
country rising beyond. ‘The principal view from the Jawn 
front forms a striking contrast to those already mentioned. In 
this view we look down to a smooth grassy hollow, and up to the 
wild woods of Sidon Hill. ‘To the left of this, the Beacon Hill, 
with its bold outline and bare surface, the latter partially con- 
cealed by a wooded eminence rising from the valley right before 
it, forms a fine contrast to the rich wooded scenery of Sidon. 
This last-mentioned hill is ascended by a spiral drive, partly 
open, and partly wooded, which terminates unexpectedly in a 
triumphal arch, through which the eye looks down on the house, 
the pleasure-ground, and the whole park, as on a map. The 
substratum of this hill beimg chalk, the turf has the smooth 
character belonging to the downs or pastures of chalky districts ; 
and this circumstance, together with the wild manner in which 
sloe thorns, junipers, and other native shrubs have risen up on 
it, forms a remarkable contrast to the smooth polish of the 
pleasure-ground, and its groups of rhododendrons and magno- 
lias, below. From the east front of the house is seen, within the 
pleasure-ground, upon a raised platform, a very handsome Pal- 
ladian temple, roofed, and having a floor, but open on all sides. 
It is a most impressive and delightful object, and is in correct 
architecture, though now somewhat out of repair. This temple 
(like the circular one on the border of the approach road) is 
seen from many points of view in the grounds, and always with 
excellent effect. 

‘“‘ The beauties of this place are entirely the creation of the 
last two Earls of Caernarvon, father and son. When Henry 
George, the first Earl of Caernarvon of the Herbert family, 
succeeded his uncle in 1769, the place consisted of a small 
pleasure-ground on two sides (the east and south) of the man- 
sion-house, and a long avenue of beech trees, included between 
two quickset hedges, which connected the pleasure-ground with 
Sidon Hill. This hill, which is now covered with the most luxu- 
riant vegetation, had then only five beech trees, and a few ash 
and oak. To the north of the house, a series of enclosed fields 
and a rabbit warren extended to Milford Water, then subdi- 
vided into three ponds, with the natural beech wood before- 


Fiighclere. 249 


mentioned upon its longest side. Before his improvements were 
commenced, Lord Caernarvon called in the assistance of the 
celebrated Brown, whose plan is still preserved in the mansion 
at Highclere, though it was not followed. It serves to show the 
great superiority which a proprietor of cultivated taste, who resides 
upon his demesne, and makes himself master of its capabilities, 
will always possess over the professional landscape-gardener, 
taking a transient view, and forming his plan upon undigested 
data and imperfect knowledge of local details. Lord Caernar- 
von began his operations by partially destroying the avenue 
leading to Sidon Hill, throwing down its boundary hedges, and 
laying down the ar able fields in grass on its right and ete ; thus 
including Sidon Hill within the park, and extending the latter up 
to the foot of Beacon Hill, now apparently, though not actually, 
within it. Then, turning his attention fan nmarde: the park 
was carried over all the fields and rabbit warren between the 
mansion-house and Milford Water; which last, having its three 
subdivisions formed into one lake, was, with its adjoining woods, 
thrown also into the enclosed grounds. Very extensive plant- 
ations stretching from the natural beech wood, along the eastern 
side of the park, and forming a rich woodland boundary, next 
occupied Lord Caernarvon’s attention. After this, his planting 
operations upon a large scale were carried to the northwards: 
Dunsmere Water, in short, a multitude of operations, followed ; 
every successive year producing some extension or developement 
of his original plans, which were not only pursued with un- 
abated activity during his own life, but were continued by his 
son, the late Karl of Caernarvon, with equal ardour. A curious 
memorandum book was kept by the first Earl of Caernarvon 
[which has been shown tous]. It records many interesting facts 
connected with his improvements, chronicles the planting and 
progress of his favourite trees, gives the dates of his successive 
operations, and must be regarded as a document of great local 
interest. ‘The mode of preparing and removing large trees 
described by Sir Henry Steuart, was largely practised by Lord 
Caernarvon, sixty years ago. Many of the beech trees, now of 
large dimensions, in Sidon Vale, to the right and left of the old 
avenue, were so removed soon after 1770. In 1795 and 1796, 
many large beech trees were transplanted to the north of the 
house; again, in 1798 and 1799, others were transplanted ; 
again, in 1800; and to various spots, and at various intervals, 
between these periods and since. ‘These attempts were almost 
invariably successful. ‘lo show how thoroughly Lord Caernarvon 
had appreciated the principles of this practice, we copy an extract 
from his memorandum book, written at least forty years ago : — 
“6¢ The best way of planting large beech trees of any size is, to 


cut in the lateral branches, not close to the body, in the begin- 
s 3 


250 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


ning of February; and, in the autumn following (or even in the 
same spring), to cut round the roots, and fill the earth in; letting 
it stand till the succeeding autumn, or longer, by which time the 
tree will have made young branches and young roots, and be in 
vigour, and fit, upon removal, to push immediate roots. It 
should be taken up without cutting the roots much more, and 
put into a hole with the earth in mud, filled in and well staked. 
The young roots will immediately strike, and the young branches 
shoot. Planting in earth made thick mud is an excellent way. 
The tree should be planted level with the ground; it suffers, if 
sunk below the level of the ground. ‘The top or leading branch 
of a beech, indeed of any tree, should not be cut off.’ 

‘¢ When riding round the grounds at Highclere, the fine taste 
which dictated the position of the masses of trees, and of single 
trees, is obvious: how much attention was bestowed upon this 
point by the above-named nobleman, another extract from his 
memorandum book will show; and it will, at the same time, 
afford a useful lesson to all planters and place improvers. 

‘“*¢ In planting single trees about the house, great care should 
be taken not to hide the house from essential parts of the park ; 
for, though they might be of advantage, when seen from the 
house, yet, viewed from Smart’s Hill, ‘Tent Hill, Hopgood Hill, 
also from Guines’s Coppice, the head of a single tree may hide 
the house, though you may see under it from the house. Great 
care has been taken in placing the present trees; which might 
have been placed better, choosing their position from the house 
only, but, I think, could not have been placed any where else, 
taking into consideration the necessity of keeping the view of the 
house clear for the beauty of the above-named spots, giving at 
the same time sufficient grove near the house. The best way to 
ascertain the position of a tree is to fix a white pole, with a 
white rag hung to it, and then ride round the park to the heights 
from whence the house is seen. ‘Till I adopted this plan, I was 
obliged to take away trees inadvertently planted, which is ex- 
tremely mortifying.’ 

‘© The fine cedars which adorn the immediate environs of 
the house were (with the exception of two, raised from a 
cone brought immediately from Lebanon, by the celebrated 
Oriental traveller, Dr. Pococke) all raised from seeds by the 
first Earl of Caernarvon; and the largest of them was planted 
out between the years 1773 and 1778. These fine trees may 
serve to dissipate a commonly prevalent error, which attri- 
butes to the cedar of Lebanon the character of slowness of 
growth ; and to show planters that this most stately of evergreen 
trees actually makes a progress superior to most trees in our 
climate. A fine specimen, upon the lawn opposite to the north- 
western angle of Highclere House, was planted there in the 


Highclere. 251 


spring of 1778, being then 4 ft. high, and having been raised 
from a cone gathered at Wilton in 1772. Being measured on 
the 5th July, 1832, its circumference, at 3 ft. from the ground, 
was 10 ft. 23 in.; another, immediately to the south of it, being 
examined at the same time, measured 10 ft. 3 in.; a third, in the 
park to the north of the house, and close to the back entrance, 
measured 10 ft. 6 in.: but it is useless to multiply instances. 
Beeches planted about the same time are not nearly so large. 
The first Lord Caernarvon, who not only thus improved his 
grounds, but also added largely to his mansion, and gave it a 
third front to the north, died in 1812. His plans were actively 
pursued by the late earl; who, bringing to the task taste of 
the highest order, added most materially to the magnificence 
of his demesne. A large extension of Milford Water, not yet 
completed according to his views ; the creation of the exotic plant- 
ations surrounding it; a new line of approach to the house, the 
alteration and improvement of which occupied much of his at- 
tention during the latter years of his life, and were left incom- 
plete; and the creation of the curious collection of American 
plants scattered through the shubberies in the pleasure-grounds, 
are among the operations of the late Lord Caernarvon. We 
have spoken of the magnificent cedars which adorn the lawn 
at Highclere. The heath-mould plants, usually denominated 
American, are not less striking. Unfavourable circumstances 
of local climate, which hardly allow an arbutus to protract a 
wretched existence, induced His Lordship to rely principally 
upon rhedodendrons and azaleas for the decoration of his 
shrubberies. ‘To extend the garden varieties, and protract the 
flowering season of the family, became an object which, most 
actively pursued, has been attended with uncommon success. 
By means of hybrid intermixture, the season for these beautiful 
flowers, beginning about the end of April, lasts till the middle of 
July, almost three months. The very splendid rhododendrons, 
brilliant to the highest degree with their crimson corollas, of 
the variety obtained between the Rhododéndron arboreum of 
Nepal and £&. catawbiénse, and named, by Dr. Lindley, after 
the Doomsday name of Highclere (Alta-Clera), Rhododén- 
dron alta-clerénse [see Bot. Reg., vol. iv. t. 1414. and VII. 
472.*], come into flower about the third week in April, and 
are succeeded by a multitude of splendid varieties both of 
Rhodedéndron and Azalea, ending with the crosses obtained 
between #hododéndren maximum and Azalea autumnalis rubra. 


* In this page, Mr. Gowen, the originator of all these hybrids, is spoken of 
as the gardener at Highclere. This is erroneous; Mr. Gowen should have 
been designated an amateur of gardening; Mr. Carton was the gardener at 
the time the first hybrid rhododendrons were raised, and one variety (see 
Hort. Brit. 29193.) is named after him. 

s 4 


252 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


The number is continually increasing; and, however per- 
plexing to the botanist, who will have the disagreeable task 
of distinguishing between indigenous species and these endless 
horticultural varieties, yet it must be owned that to this art 
of hybridising the flower-garden is,. and will be, indebted for 
a great accession of beauty and enjoyment. Of the many 
achievements of this nature at Highclere, the most striking is 
to be found in the crosses effected between #. arboreum and the 
hardy species. ‘These hybrids, which as far surpass the com- 
mon rhododendrons as the new double Scotch roses do the old 
wild ones, are perfectly hardy, exceedingly floriferous, and can- 
not be surpassed in splendour. Of the azaleas, the most splendid 
are bred between the fine garden varieties of Azalea calendu- 
Jacea and Azalea nudiflora var. rubéscens; and it may be pre- 
dicated of all these hybrids, that they possess a much greater 
tendency to profuse flowering than the unadulterated species. 
[Some account of the origination of these will be found in VII. 62.] 
The history of the hybrid £&. alta-clerénse is curious in the 
way of floricultural anecdote. ‘To obtain it had been a great 
desideratum ; but the specimens of #. arboreum at Highclere 
had shown no disposition to flower. The only places in England 
where it then (1826) flowered were Hylands (Mr. Labouchere’s), 
and at the Grange. From the latter place an umbel was obtained 
and conveyed to Highclere in a tin case. By means of its 
pollen the flowers of #. ponticum and /?. maximum were fe- 
cundated, and about 1800 seedlings were raised, many of which, 
after supplying his private friends, Lord Caernarvon desired 
might be distributed among the nurserymen. ‘This was done in 
the spring of 1831. ‘Those which were retained at Highclere 
have now attained a flowering age, and form extensive shrub- 
beries round the house.” 

The pleasure-grounds are about 100 acres in extent, and con- 
tain many fine specimens of exotic trees and shrubs, among 
which were tulip trees, black walnut, deciduous cypress, Virgilia 
lutea, and Magnolza acuminata and tripétala. ‘The climate is 
so severe, that M. obovata and the stuartias can hardly exist. 
Among the shrubs, a large-leafed variety of Cotoneaster micro- 
phylla insulated on the lawn, its branches covering a space of 
thirteen yards in circumference, is a very conspicuous object. 
The formation of these shrubberies, we were told, was an 
arduous operation: the ground has been made to the depth of 
between three and four feet, and the mould was carted from the 
park woods in the vicinity of the lakes, a distance of nearly two 
miles. 

** The climate of Hlighclere, as might be expected from 
its situation, immediately under the northern termination of an 
extensive range of bleak woodless downs, is very unfavourable 


Flighclere. 253 


to horticulture. The profusion of lichens and green moss upon 
the trees attest its humidity. Many shrubs which endure the open 
air well at Newbury, only five miles off, live with difficulty here ; 
and the only counterbalancing advantage is a comparative ex- 
emption from autumnal frosts. ‘he site of the house is about 
600 ft. above the level of the sea. Cunninghamza lanceolata 
lives out well in a shrubbery in the pleasure-ground. Among 
the rhododendrons is a healthy specimen of the very scarce 
Rhododéndron campanulatum (Nepal), which has not yet 
flowered. It has the habit of a sturdy bush, or rather, perhaps, 
of a small tree. Its leaves are about the size of those of R. 
catawbiénse, and are of a very deep green on the upper surface, 
but beneath are covered with the deepest cinnamon-coloured 
pubescence. [This rare and beautiful rhododendron has lately 
flowered with Messrs. Loddiges, and in Mr. Knight’s Exotic 
Nursery. The corolla is white spotted with lilac, large, and bell- 
shaped.] We noticed two beds, containing nearly 100 bushes of 
hybrids between Azalea and Rhododéndron. ‘The method lately 
pursued, as before mentioned, is to mass the varieties and species 
as much as possible together. Thus, Andrémeda acuminata, 
forming a small bed, is very ornamental. rica vagans is so 
treated, and kept compact by an annual cutting in with the 
garden shears; Menziésza czerulea, gualtherias, and the close- 
growing vacciniums, are all so treated, and with great effect. 
Indeed, small low shrubs, like the humbler rhododendrons, 
andromedas, vacciniums, and ericas, planted in large shrub- 
beries, produce no effect compared with what they do when 
indulged with a space to themselves, where they are free to 
show their natural habits. Spiree’a trilobata is very handsome, 
when so treated; as are S. bélla and S. arizefolia. Rzbes san- 
guineum grows rapidly at Highclere, but dies suddenly in the 
middle of summer, when three or four years old, in whatever soil 
or exposure it has hitherto been placed. Of Cratee‘gus grandi- 
flora and tanacetifolia there are fine specimens, near the 
house: the yellow fruit of the latter is eatable, resembling an 
apple, but more insipid. Nymphee‘a advena thrives exceedingly 
in Milford Lake, and is very hardy. Among the rarer aquatics 
is Nuphar minima. A double-flowering American sagittaria 
has increased rapidly. Pinus Douglasz: appears to be of very 
rapid growth, and extremely suitable to the climate. Tilia 
heterophflla is a tree of very fine foliage, and apparently of rapid 
erowth. The progress of A’cer macrophyllum has been very 
rapid; and it seems probable that most of the trees from north- 
western America, near the regions of the Columbia River and 
north of it, will find in England a very congenial climate. Vir- 
gilia lutea flowered profusely at Highclere last spring, in racemes 
of moderate length, inodorous and not showy, being hidden in the 


254 Notes on Gardens und Country Seals : — 


exuberant foliage. A specimen of Magnolza conspicua, in the plea- 
sure-ground, grafted upon a stock of Magnolza acuminata, is in 
all respects more vigorous than one raised in the usual manner 
upon a stock of Magndlia obovata; its foliage is deeper in colour 
and thicker in substance, and its flowers sar more numerous. 

‘¢ A fine weeping ash, also in the pleasure-ground, which had 
remained for several years stationary in height, suddenly made 
a strong perpendicular shoot nearly 10 ft. in length, which now 
forms the head of the tree; its luxuriant branches having quite 
overwhelmed the original tree. Quércus fastigiata, on the 
banks of Milford Water, is interesting, from its perpendicular 
habit, resembling that of the Lombardy poplar.” 

Besides the shrubs above enumerated, we noticed Diospyros 
virginiana, Nyssa aquatica, Negtindo fraxinifolia ; Liquidambar, 
both species; Dirca palistris, 3 ft. high, with a stem 6 in. in 
diameter ; Rubus nutkanus, which has the habit of the Virginian 
raspberry, and bears an eatable fruit, resembling the cloud- 
berry in size and appearance; Li. spectabilis, and several other 
species; all the new species of Bérderis and Mahonia; a com- 

lete collection of named vacciniums; all the azaleas, both of 
the British and Continental nurseries, besides numerous new 
hybrids already mentioned, some of which were still in flower, 
while on others the capsules, impregnated with a view to new 
varieties, were nearly ready to gather; and a good collection of 
roses, standards, and dwarfs, among which was the Highclere 
seedling, one of the most beautiful of the tea-scented China 
roses and a free flowerer throughout the whole season: budded 
in May, these roses will flower in the August of the same year. 
The best stock for this and the other China roses is the #. 
Banksze. Among the herbaceous plants, which were now in 
splendid beauty, producing most brilliant masses of colour in 
groups on the lawn, were, Lilium tigrinum and Z. canadénse, and 
Yucca glaucéscens, which has the habit of Y. filamentosa, flower- 
ing yearly, but much more freely, with larger and more numerous 
blossoms, and more elegant foliage. This plant was first given 
to the nurseries from Highclere. Campanula lactiflora forms a 
fine lawn plant, either singly or in large masses; the lobelias, 
georginas, lupines, phloxes, potentillas, asters, gladioluses, pe- 
tunias, mimuluses, and many of the new Californian plants in- 
troduced by Douglas, added to the beauty of the scene. It 
deserves particularly to be remarked, that the dark purple candy- 
tuft and Clarkéa pulchélla form the best masses when mixed 
with mignonette, and the same may be said of other showy but 
naked-stemmed annuals; and, farther, that al! these flowers, and, 
in general, all the ornamental shrubs, are introduced in masses ; 
sometimes, as in the case of the snowberry, of one species 
only; and in others, as in Rubus, rica, Rhododéndron, &c., 


Enghelere. 255 


of several species and varieties of the same genus. If the great 
woods of the place were to be planted over again, this principle 
would be more attended to, with regard to the forest trees ; but 
it must be recollected, that, when these woods were planted, 
about the middle of the last century, and, indeed, not till near 
the end of it, there was not, in any nursery in the island, above 
a dozen kinds of forest trees to be procured, in quantities suffi- 
cient for making large plantations. 

In a walled flower-garden, on a declivity facing the south, 
and concealed by wood, are innumerable valuable plants. The 
exterior of the wall is varied by piers and arches of ivy, the 
panels between being filled in with choice deciduous climbers 
and roses. In this garden we found fine collections of car- 
nations, pinks, and other florist’s flowers ; beds of hybrid ixias, 
and other hybrid Jridez, raised by that enthusiastic vegetable 
hybridiser, the Hon. and Rev. William Herbert of Spofforth, 
brother to the late Earl of Caernarvon, whose garden has been 
described by a correspondent. (VI. 531.) We were delighted 
to find here that Gladiolus natalénsis propagates so readily by 
offsets, that one bulb will produce 100 in a season, which, when 
well treated, will flower the following year. We trust soon to 
see it in every cottage garden. Cypélla Herbértz, a beautiful 
ixia-like plant, was in flower. In the plant stove there is a good 
collection of epiphytes, well grown, especially rhinanthera. 
Plumiérza bicolor was in flower; and also a large plant of La- 
gerstroe mia indica, besides numerous smaller or more common 
articles. ‘The crops of grapes, peaches, and pines, in the houses 
and pits in this garden, were good. ‘To produce a moist heat 
from hot-water pipes in the pine-pits, Mr. Carton (the very 
excellent gardener) had them covered with moss, which he 
watered occasionally with clear water; and, if we remember 
correctly, occasionally with horse-dung water, in order to pro- 
duce ammoniacal gas to destroy insects, and carbonic gas to 
nourish the plants. ‘The practice of watering with horse-dung 
water, we believe, originated with Mr. Pillans, late foreman to 
Mr. Forrest at Syon, and now head-gardener to Lord Ducie at 
Woodchester Park, near Minchinhampton, Gloucestershire ; 
who, we hope, will favour our readers with an account of this 
and some of his other new and valuable practices. We observed 
a number of vines, in pots, raised from the eye the same season, 
which were expected to produce several bunches of fruit each 
the next year. The cuttings of the vines are first planted in 
very small pots, and shifted, as they advance in growth, into 
pots of larger size, till the latter are, at last, a foot in diameter, 
when they are placed in large saucers, and fed with liquid 
manure. ‘The pots are placed at the back of the house, close 
under the glass, and the shoots are trained on wires down the 


256 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


slope, so as to give the leaves every advantage of sun and heat. 
It is expected that each vine will produce five or six bunches of 
grapes; those of Mr. Pillans, similarly treated, having produced 
450 lb. of grapes from seventy pots; the vines, when the fruit 
was ripe, not being more than eighteen months from the eye. 
This may be considered as the extraordinary result of extra- 
ordinary skill, attention, and perseverance. It may be useful 
and commendable in gentlemen’s gardens; but, as it requires 
much more labour, as well as skill, than can be afforded by most 
persons who wish to grow grapes, it is not intended to super- 
sede the simpler and more certain modes. It may be con- 
sidered as a prize essay. 

The kitchen-garden is here but a secondary object of attention. 
The soil is naturally a strong clay; but part of it has lately been 
greatly improved by burning some of the subsoil, and mixing it 
with the surface. The operation is performed, during the sum- 
mer season, on the spot, by heaping up a coating of clay upon a 
ridge of fagots, and setting fire to the latter, in the manner 
explained in detail in our Encyclopedia of Agriculture. ‘The 
clay is put on in rough spadefuls, and, when the burning is com- 
pleted, it is spread over the ground from which it was taken, at 
the rate of a good dunging. There is here a very good gar- 
dener’s house; and we found in it an excellent garden and 
miscellaneous library, belonging to Mr. Carton. Among his 
miscellaneous books were the Waverley novels and the Cabinet 
Cyclopedia. 

After spending several hours in seeing the grounds about the 
house, we drove down to the sheet of water called Milford. 
This was a favourite spot of the late Lord Caernarvon. As a 
piece of home lake scenery, it is beautiful ; and, as altogether the 
work of art, with the exception of the sloping bank covered with 
natural wood, it is admirable. A large wood, remarkable for 
the size and richness of its hollies, is connected with this natural 
beech wood by extensive plantations of fir and larch. The 
holly wood, which is called Penwood, possesses great beauty. 
The undergrowth of the woods and islands of this lake of Mil- 
ford Water is entirely composed of rhododendrons, azaleas, 
kalmias, and other American evergreens, which attain a vast size, 
and sow themselves. ‘here are numerous Nepal hybrids here ; 
and they are found to stand the drought better than the common 
sorts. Altogether, we do not know any place in the country 
where there is such a great extent of American trees and shrubs. 
There are even some exotic aquatics in the water; and it is in 
contemplation to scatter the seeds of many of the most beautiful 
of the North American annuals in the woods, as is now doing at 
Dropmore. Among the native trees are some very large beeches, 
one of. which is 18 ft. in circumference at 3 ft. from the ground, 


Highclere. 257 


and 24 ft. close to it. Another larger-stemmed tree, close to this, 
is 13 ft. 8 in. in circumference, at 3 ft. from the ground. There is 
a large ash, near these beeches, which is 13 ft. 8in. close to the 
ground ; and there is an ash in the park 16 ft. 8 in. in circum- 
ference at 3 ft. from the ground. These large trees are supposed 
to be aboriginal. 

“The summit of Beacon Hill is crowned with a very fine 
British entrenchment. Several barrows at the foot of the hill 
were opened some years ago, and found to contain burnt bones, 
spear and arrow heads of bronze, and some small ornaments of 
thin gold, which had obviously been used as a covering to a 
nucleus long since decayed. ‘The elevated barrows had con- 
tained the bones of warriors; the smaller ones, which were only 
slightly elevated above the surrounding ground, contained smaller 
bones (apparently either those of females or young people), which 
were unaccompanied by implements of war.’ 

After this slight outline of the leading features of Highclere, 
it remains for us to give our general opinion of its beauties. 
Taking it altogether, then, and considering it as a whole, and 
with reference both to nature and ar t, we know of no inland 
place to equal it. ‘There are more striking portions of ground 
at many places ; for example, the brow on which the Ions | is 
situated at Pain’s Hill, with the river below: there are more 
romantic situations, as at Hafod; situations in which rocks and 
a natural river have a prominent effect, as at Auchincruive; or 
rocks without a river, as at Hawkstone: there are more striking 
situations by art, and where architecture is included; as in the 
view of Blenheim, on entering the Woodstock gate; or of the 
enchanted valley, at Alton Towers: but, decidedly, in our 
opinion, there is no place in England where so much dignity of 
character, so much elegant variety, and so much cultivated 
beauty, is preserved throughout a place of such great extent. We 
set little value on the rhododendrons and other pleasure-ground 
ornaments, compared with what we think of the style of planting 
which has been everywhere adopted, of the formation of the 
water, and of the distribution of the views of the house. The 
ground floor of the house is not sufficiently raised; and the 
direction of the approach to it might be improved. ‘There are 
several minor points which may also admit of correction; and 
the woods, and plantations of American shrubs on the lawn, 
like all others that are intended to continue to look well, will 
require constant thinning: but all these things are as nothing 
in the scale, when weighed against the natural beauty of the 
grounds, and the judicious disposition of the woods, groups, 
and scattered trees. We know no place in which the trees are 
as well disposed over so great an extent of surface. Por- 
tions of Pain’s Hill, Caversham, Esher, and a few other places, 


258 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats. 
may be compared with Highclere; but these are only portions, 
not in all exceeding a few acres: while here we have a park three 
or four miles in length, and averaging a mile in breadth. Let 
the reader who has an opportunity compare the planting which 
has been done in the park at White Knights, both that done by 
the original planter about the same time as that at Highclere, 
and that done under the direction of the Duke of Marlborough, 
and say in which is the superiority of taste and judgment. 
There are few, however, who can profit from the study of such 
places as Highclere and Pain’s Hill; and this is the reason 
why we have ‘always heard the former place mentioned for its 
hybrid rhodedendrons and azaleas, and the latter for having 
been the first where rhododendrons were raised from American 
seeds ; and never, either of them, for the disposition of the trees. 
There is, however, one point, in respect to Highclere, which, 
we have no doubt, will come home to the bosoms both of gar- 
deners and their employers; and an important point it is: that 
is, that all the American trees and shrubs, which now make sucha 
conspicuous figure there, were raised on the spot, either from seeds 
procured from America, or from plants which had ripened them 
in this country. We are assured that not more than 20/. have 
been paid at Highclere for nursery plants during the last 
twenty years. Perhaps we shall be blamed by nurserymen for 
mentioning such a thing. We should deserve blame, however, 
much more, if we were to preserve silence. The reason why 
gentlemen have had recourse to raising American plants from 
seed, is because more has been charged for the plants by the 
nurserymen, than many gentlemen could afford to give. So far 
from blaming gentlemen for raising trees from American seeds, 
we commend them for it; and we are persuaded that nursery- 
men would do so likewise, if they saw the result in its true 
light; viz. the spreading of a taste for foreign trees and shrubs. 
Persons in business may rely upon this, that there is not one 
gentleman in a hundred, who can afford to purchase plants from 
a nurseryman, who will take the trouble of rearing them from 
seed for himself. Gentlemen who are not rich, or those whose 
expenditure in matters of improvement or taste treads closely 
on the heels of their incomes, may become their own nursery- 
men; but the effect of wealth is, in almost all cases, to induce a 
desire for ease, and to purchase the results of labour, rather than 
to labour to produce results. Besides, were the practice alluded 
to to become general, the seed business would be greatly in- 
creased; and, in this case, what difference could it make to 
a nurseryman whether he derives a profit from importing and 
selling seeds, or raising plants from these seeds? ‘The truth 
is, all businesses and all pursuits are continually changing 
with the progress of society. This complaint, of gentlemen 


Kitchen- Garden containing One Acre. 259 


becoming their own propagators, has been repeated for the last 
thirty years: but have not nurserymen multiplied tenfold during 
that period ; and, if so, what is the reason? As well might we 
say that no gentleman ought to lay out his own grounds: but, 
if this were the case, where would have been Woburn Farm, 
White Knights, Pain’s Hill, and Highclere? The truth is, 
that, without such deviations from commonplace routine, there 
would neither have been landscape- gardening, in the modern sense 
of that expression, nor would the business of a nurseryman 
have extended beyond that of a mere grower of fruit and forest 
trees. Highclere is an example of what the late Sir Uvedale 
Price always held forth to the world; viz., that any gentleman 
who wished to make his place what it ought to be, ought to study 
the subject of planting and laying out grounds himself. This 
is precisely what the last two proprietors of this place have 
done; and Highclere, in its present state, is the result. 

For the passages in inverted commas in the foregoing article, 
we are indebted to a gentleman better acquainted with the loca- 
lities of Highclere, than we could be by our transient visit. 


Art. II. A Series of Designs for laying out Kitchen-Gardens. By 
Mr. T. Rurcer. Design 1., Containing an Acre within the Walls. 


In offering a series of what may be considered as work- 
ing-plans for the formation of kitchen-gardens, I deem it neces- 
sary to enter a little into detail upon the subject. In the first 
place, it must be understood that I do not offer these designs as 
standards of excellence, not be improved upon or excelled; but 
rather that I submit them to draw, from the more experienced, 
observations or designs serving to illustrate such principles and 
rules as will tend to effect the object in view. In the designs 
there will be nothing of a fanciful description introduced (except 
when a flower-garden may be given); utility and convenience 
only being studied. They are likewise intended to be so com- 
posed that one may assist another; either by enabling the de- 
signer to add to one from another, or to reduce one to the 
size of another, as it may be thought desirable in laying out 
the ground. 

I am aware that much has been written about the aspect and 
situation of kitchen-gardens ; pointing out the advantages and 
disadvantages of each, according to the views of various writers 
upon the subject. However, without offering an opinion 
upon these pcints, and believing that, in most instances, a 
southern aspect is approved of, the following series will be 
arranged accordingly ; and as to situation, this must be left to 


260 


Design for laying oul a Kitchen-Garden, 


* IT mn <<“ 


us 1 


10 30, Tas See 100 
(ER le lo PRET Te 


aa, Fruit-garden, and for potherbs. 6 6, Culinary department, 


with espaliers. 


cc, Forcing department. dd, Department 


for compost, mixing dung, &c. e e, Ranges for melons and 


; cucumbers. 


J, Pine stove. g, Peach house. h, Vinery. 


3 4, Pits. k, Back shed. Z 2, Mushroom sheds, or for 


, other purposes. 


mmm, Water basins, or places for pumps. 


DS 
ey Tors 


the judgment of those 
who may think any 
of the plans worthy 
of being adopted, in 
part or wholly, as the 
groundwork of their 
operations. 

With regard to 
form, it will be seen 
that I favour the ob- 
long, with the slip 
made circular on the 
south, or point of 
principal entrance: 
this, in my opinion, 
falls in better with an 
adjoining shrubbery 
than a straight fence 
would do, should a 
shrubbery be  pro- 
posed. 

Espaliers being ob- 
jected to by some and 
approved of by others, 
they must be left to 
the will of such as 
like to adopt or dis- 
card them. How- 
ever, I consider them 
both useful and orna- 
mental, and that, in 
both respects, they 
more than compen- 
sate for the injury 
which it is thought 
by some they do the 
crops. 

The height of walls 
must also he left to 
the judgment of the 
designer; only in this 
case a beg to observe, 
that, if, according to 
the scale of these de- 
signs, there is not a 
sufficient space be- 
tween the back wall 


Gardener's House for a North-East Angle. 261 


of the gardens, and the frames or houses in the rear, for the latter 
to receive the full influence of the sun’s rays, even on the shortest 
day, more space must be given. It must be noticed, also, that, 
although the forcing-houses will be named and particularised in 
the references, it is not intended that they should be adopted 
any farther than may be approved of, or deemed necessary, with 
such alterations as may be found requisite to make them answer 
better for their intended purposes. If room cannot be afforded 
behind the frame ground for compost, &c., the space in front 
of the frames can be appropriated for that purpose; and, 
in that case, some other place must be found for working the 
dung for the frames. With respect to the slips, they will appear 
uniform in the plans; but, as it may not be convenient in every 
case to follow this rule, any other convenient form can be sub- 
stituted. The pathways that it may be deemed necessary to 
place in and through the quarters will be left to discretion. 
With these few preliminaries, I submit to you the ground 
plan of No. 1. of the series (fg. 35.), which contains barely an 
acre within the walls, including the forcing department: this, not 
being available for crops, is compensated by the entrance ground. 
If side slips are wanted, reference may be made to plan No. 2., 
in which a difference will also be made in laying out the quarters 
of the garden. T. Rureer. 
Shortgrove, Essex, 1834. 


Art. III. Design for a Gardener's House, adapted for the North- 


East Angle of a walled Kitchen-Garden. By Mr. RoBerTson. 


Havine, in preceding articles, given designs for gardeners’ 
houses, suitable for being placed on the four side walls of a 
kitchen-garden, we now proceed to give designs for the four 
angles, which will complete the series. We are happy to find 
that these designs have directed the attention of gentlemen to 
the manner in which their gardeners are lodged, in different parts 
of the country; and that new houses, in some cases, and addi- 
tions to old ones, in others, have been the consequences, We 
have now before us three beautiful sketches of gardeners’ houses 
which have been thus originated, and which we shall probably 
give, after the present series is completed. 

Another improvement which has taken place, connected with 
gardeners’ houses, is the removal of trees, shrubs, climbers, &c., 
which often used to cover them in such a way, as not only to 
render ventilation utterly impossible, but even to exclude the 
light. Some very handsome and commodious gardeners’ houses 
have been, from this cause, rendered very unwholesome. 

The present design (fig. 36.), like those which have preceded it, 

Vou. X,— No. 51. T 


ut RT STITT 


a 


by 
ny 
‘i i 
ui 


ay 


a 


a Mts. 


i, 3 
Neg, — 


Z 


G Yj ) G Z 
VY) Yy Z d 
ify Ye 

= ]; 

LAM L LRT C—O Yj 

i) 

h & |! 

wy: 7 i 


REI GUTREE AGERE ERE EEE Qa UAE 


WSS SS J 
r i ee 
a ay eS 


SS 
SS 


GG. K 


VS 


WIS 
AKG 
u 
SQV ‘ 
WW 
\ 
SS 


SSS 


SS 


YY 


The principal floor contains: — a, Entrance from the angle formed by the garden walls, 
f, Office, with desk and book- 


c, Parlour. d, Bedroom. e, Bedroom. 


1—_ yyy) Wii 


N 


Mg 


MIX 


LLL 


6, Kitchen. 
shelves on two sides. 


g, Wicket, to which the men come in by the back door, k, and through which they are admitted, 


one at a time, into the office, f, where they are paid. 


The cellar floor contains : — , Staircase. n, Kitchen and bakehouse. 


0, 


2, k, 1, Piaces for ashes, coal), and wood. 


Boiler. p, Oven. 


q> Flue from the oven, for the purpose of heating a mass of stones, to communicate warmth to the 
whole house, in the manner explained at !ength in the article on cottage husbandry and architec- 


ture. (VI. 139.) | xr, Two root cellars. 
other floor to this house, it being intended for a gardener with a small family. 


s, A beer cellar, or lumber place. 


There is no 


Strictures on disposing Plants in Masses. 263 


has not the slightest pretension to ornament; the object of these 
designs being merely to show the arrangement of the rooms, 
and the connection of the walls with those of the garden, in 
such a manner as that any country mason or bricklayer might 
build from them. 


Art. IV. Strictures on disposing Plants in Masses. 
By CatycanTHUs. 


THE system of disposing plants in masses, so frequently and 
ably advocated in this Magazine, is becoming very general, and 
certainly produces a much better effect than the tedious mono- 
tony of an indiscriminate mixture. In the practice, however, of 
this superior method, it should be remembered that the groups 
and masses ought to be considered as parts of a whole, and, as 
such, should harmonise and unite with each other, with regard 
to form and colour. Without attention to this point, the 
several disunited and independent parts will no more form a 
gardenesque landscape, than the colours arranged on a painter’s 
palette will of themselves form a picture. I have known more 
than one small garden spoiled by a disregard of proportion, the 
shrubs and flowers being disposed in groups of far too large a 
size. In sttch a situation, a single plant, or a group of two or 
three, must be considered to bear the same proportion to the 
whole, as much larger masses or groups bear in the case of a 
park. Although I approve, as I have said above, of the prin- 
ciple of placing different species in groups and masses, I think 
that there are cases in which this, like all other principles, may 
be carried too far. Ina small flower-garden which I very much 
admire, I have seen a group, composed of myrtles and China 
roses, planted alternately in quincunx order, the larger plants 
being in the centre; and, in my opinion, a better effect was pro- 
duced than if the two species had been in separate masses: the 
rich green colour of the myrtles’ leaves, forming a ground to the 
beautiful white of the flower; the light and elegant foliage and 
pendent bloom of the rose; the mingled colour, and the asso- 
ciations connected with both, made an impression upon me 
which I shall not easily forget. In the same garden there is a 
group consisting of an acacia, a sumach, and a laburnum. The 
light feathery elegance of the acacia, the broader and more 
shadowy plumes of the sumach, and the pendulous clusters of 
flowers of the laburnum, compose a little picture of the most 
highly finished character. 

Gardeners might find much instruction from an examination 
of cottage gardens, in many of which I have seen a degree of 


vood taste that is not always found where there is more reason 
T 2 


264 Defects in the Management of Fruit Trees. 


to expect it.- In such gardens, it often happens that very strik- 
ing effects are produced by a judicious disposition of plants of 
the most common description; and I think it would be a 
very useful study to endeavour to imitate them with plants of 
more rare and choice species. I was once much struck by a 
particular effect (not, however, of sufficient general interest for 
a place in your Magazine) produced by a plant of the common 
hop; and it was not until after many trials that I could find a 
substitute for it ameng more choice plants : at length, however, I 
succeeded to my own satisfaction by means of one of the genus 
Clématis; the species I do not with certainty know, as it has 
never flowered during the three years that it has been in my 
garden. 

In small gardens, nothing can be more unpleasing than a 
want of neatness and high finish; it reminds me of a flower- 
painter of the last century, who used the most dingy and sombre 
colours that he could find, saying that he imitated Raphael, and 
painted for posterity. In the case of a small garden, it should 
be remembered that, whatever may be the beauty of the design, 
constant attention, and the frequent removal of plants, are in- 
dispensable: three or four years of neglect would leave nothing, 
either to posterity or the designer himself, but a tangled and 
matted thicket of such plants as might come off conquerors in 
the struggle for life incident to want of sufficient space. 

Hastings, April, 1834. 


Art. V. On Defects in the Management of Fruit Trees. 
By Mr. Rosert ERRINGTON. 


AttrHoueH so much has been said and written about various 
modes of training and managing fruit trees, you may, perhaps, 
yet spare room for a few more remarks on the subject. It will 
be generally admitted, I think, even by most practical men (by 
the by, a class rather slow to admit any thing which implicates 
themselves), that the cultivation of fruit trees generally is not 
so successful as might be desired, and, from long practice, ex- 
pected. My attention is at this time called to the subject by some 
remarks of yours, IX. 671., in which you say, “* We shall be much 
surprised, if, when the doctrine of disbudding comes to be gene- 
rally understood, it does not effect a very considerable change 
in the mode of managing every description of fruit tree which 
requires to be trained in any particular form, or kept within 
any particular bounds less than what are natural to it.” Your 
remarks I consider just in a very considerable degree ; and hence 
appears the propriety, and, I may fairly say, necessity, of adding 
philosophical to practical knowledge in our profession. The com- 


Defects in the Management of Fruit Trees. 265 


mon expression among us, that “ leaves make roots, and roots 
make leaves,” is either not sufficiently understood, or not allowed 
to regulate practice. It is difficult to say whether the ill success of 
most gardeners, as to producing permanency and productiveness 
in fruit trees, arises from the mismanagement of the top or of the 
root. In one instance, we see borders, as they are called, made 
by an excavation deep enough for the bed of a river, which is 
filled with materials containing richness more than sufficient to 
grow the bloated tree to the size of an immense standard. Here, 
while the soil is new, and possessing some strength, the ill-fated 
gardener may ply his nippers all the year round in removing 
robbers and superfluities of his own creation ; and in two or three 
years may rival the globe for willow twigs. By degrees, the 
immediate proportion of manures contained in the soil becomes 
entirely decomposed, and, by the villanous spade culture on the 
top, the soil comes to as fine tilth as though it were riddled. 
Thence, in wet seasons, ensues entire stagnation, and, in very 
dry ones, mildew and other baneful diseases. ‘These evils arise 
in consequence of the soil’s losing nearly all assistance from the 
purifying and invigorating efforts of the atmosphere; for it is 
either swamped or baked, and in both cases it is, at it were, her- 
metically sealed. In another case, borders are made by trenching 
abundance of manures into loose sandy soils on a hot gravelly 
bottom; better adapted for barley and turnip culture than for a 
class of trees of which sound loams are the “life and soul.” 
Here, at first, while the dung lasts, together with moderately 
moist seasons, the trees appear to flourish in grand style, and 
the proprietor chuckles over them, well pleased that he did not 
follow the advice of those who (knowing the unstable character 
of such soils) suggested to him the necessity of strengthening 
the staple: all this, he now perceives (or thinks he does, at least), 
would have been unnecessary expense. ‘The manures in such 
soils, once exhausted in producing the mere framework of a 
tree, which the soil can never long maintain, nothing more is 
needed than a heavy crop of fruit for a season or two, a burning 
hot summer, and some spade culture over the surface roots, to 
complete the career of this tree, and then the sooner it is set fire 
to the better. Certainly top-dressing will do much in such a 
case (especially if the spade is unknown to such a border), but 
can never give that stability and endurance to the tree, and that 
flavour, quality, and weight to the fruit, which are the constant 
effects of a good loamy soil. ‘Then, as to top management, 
which may be said to comprehend, mode of training, summer 
disbudding, summer stopping, thinning the fruit, winter pruning, 
&c.: assuming (what, I presume, will be readily granted) that, in 
a cool damp climate like that of Britain, light, heat, and a cir- 


culation of air are of immense importance, in regard of the 
r 3 


266 Vines and Vineries. 


fructification in fruit trees, do we find anything like proper at- 
tention paid to these important principles ? Exceptions there are, 
we know; but what is the most general practice? Shoots are 
crammed in, as though the quantity and quality of the fruit were 
to be determined by the number of these alone; or probably, in 
the tender stone-fruit trees, the young wood hanging from the 
wall till nearly August, is thereby deprived of all the advantages 
arising from the accumulated heat of the wall; and trees of this 
description I have noticed, which had received all the attention 
possible in their winter pruning, at a time when light and heat 
were comparatively of little importance to them, and which were 
yet left in the summer to the above ill fate. 

It may now be fairly expected, that, after having pointed out 
the defects in the present practice, I should have something new 
to offer on the subject ; but you must be aware, that to treat it 
in all its bearings would occupy more space than you could 
spare. I will, however, if agreeable, in a future Number, offer 
my ideas on the management of fruit trees, and will give you the 
skeleton of a plan I should adopt, were I going to lay out a new 
kitchen-garden, and allowed to follow my own plans entirely. 

Oulton Park, Cheshire, Jan., 1834. R. ERRINGTON. 


WE shall be happy to receive the proposed communication. — 
Cond. 


Art. VI. Notes on Vines and Vineries. By An ExPERIENCED 
GRrAPE-GROWER. 


Tue border in front of the vinery should be from 30 to 40 ft. 
in width, and should be formed of loamy soil, sharp sand, and 
at least a fourth part of well-rotted horse-dung. ‘The vines may 
be planted on the outside of the front wall, but the stems should 
be taken through it below the level of the surface, so that they 
may never appear on the outside. When it is desired to swell 
the fruit to a large size, the border should be well watered every 
evening in the swelling season, and covered during the day with 
litter, to prevent evaporation. ‘The mostdesirable sorts of plants 
in a vinery are Money’s muscat eshcolata, Tottenham Park 
muscat, white frontignac, red frontignac, Money’s West's 
St. Peter’s, Money’s eshcolata superba, black Hamburgh, black 
Constantia, black prince, and white Hamburgh. ‘This last grape 
is not so well known as it ought to be. It is by some confounded 
with the Syrian; but it ripens much earlier, and, when it is 
grown in heat, it is an excellent grape. Others mistake it for 
the white Portugal; but the latter grape has a much thicker skin, 
and its juice is more watery. The white Hamburgh, when it 
ripens, is somewhat speckled with red. In order to have very 
late crops of grapes, the house should be kept very dry, by 


Modes of training Wall Trees. 267 


giving air every fine day, and supplying no more fire heat during 
winter than is barely sufficient to keep out the frost. If the 
house is in the neighbourhood of much coal smoke, the laps 
between the panes should be puttied, and the putty should be 
such as will not crack; which is effected by putting 1 lb. of 
white lead into every 10 lbs. of putty previously to using it, and 
using, instead of common linseed oil, which dries and shrinks, 
sweet or train oil, which dries slowly, and causes the putty to 
take a firmer hold of the glass. 

When the rafters of a house are 25 or 30 ft. long, there will 
require to be three tiers of sashes; and these, if put in accord- 
ing to the usual plan, would require the rafter to be very deep 
in its upper part. ‘To prevent this, cut the fillets which support 
the sashes, not in the form of parallelograms, as is usually done ; 
but in the form of right-angled triangles, of the full breadth of 
the fillet at one end, but diminishing to a quarter of an inch at 
the other. The wires on which the vines are trained ought to 
be 7 in. or 73 in. from the glass. 

In planting the vines, first open a hole, then set a pot con- 
taining a plant in it; next break the pot with a hammer, but 
take care not to break the ball of earth; then take the outside 
fibres and roots, that appear on the surface of the ball of earth, 
and spread them out, covering the whole with soil, and after- 
wards watering and shading. 

When fruit is swelling and ripening, care ought to be taken 
to admit abundance of air, for nothing is more injurious to grapes 
than damp, especially if the berries are close on the bunch. The 
damp first seizes the footstalk of the berries; they will then 
shrivel, or turn red, and, when tasted, will be found sour. In 
damp weather, the best mode of expelling the damp is to have 
a good fire in the daytime, and to give abundance of air; by 
which means the moisture evaporated is carried off into the 
exterior atmosphere. S. A. M. 

Hampstead, November, 1833. 


Art. VII. Notice of some Modes of training Wall Trees, practised 
in the Gardens of Hopetoun House. By Mr. JAmrs Smitu, Gar- 
dener there. 


From the extent of walls in this 

37 place, the various trees are trained . 
\ / in different shapes. Of the finer 
i i apples and best late pears, some 
are trained horizontally, and others 
\ in the half fan form; and, as you 


seem not to have noticed the last- 
Tt 4 


Eo 4 


268 Culture of the Onion. 


mentioned method, I beg leave 
to send you the following sketches 
and descriptions of it :— Pg. 37. 
represents a tree one year from 
the graft, newly planted, and 
after wards cut down to two buds 
oneach shoot. £g. 38. represents 
the same tree two years old, and 
fan-trained. Lig. 39., thesametree 
three years old, cut back and 
fan-trained. Fie. 40., the same 
tree, six years old, fan-trained; the shoots brought down in a 
curvilinear form to the ‘yoicnma. direction ; aad the different 
years’ growth 
marked 1 25/35 
4. GoueGsn the 
centre is still 
trained in the 
fan form, and 
the branches are 
brought down 
yearly; untilthe 
tree reaches to 


the top of the 
wall, where the 
\4 yoann ne fan-training ter- 
j St Co aan ed minates, and the 

tp a branches are 
trained forward horizontally. Nothing more is necessary than to 


keep the trees in good order, and to encourage the leading shoots. 
Hopetoun House Gardens, Feb. 3. 1834. JAMES SMITH. 


Art. VIII. On the Culture of the Onion by Sowing and Transplanting. 
By Mr. Wn. Taytor, Gardener, Liverpool. 


AsoutT the latter end of May, make up a seed bed of light 
soil, and raise it 6 in. above the level of the path round iu in 
order to keep it very dry. A bed 33 ft. wide, and 18 ft. long, 
will require half a pound of seed. By the latter end of August, 
the bulbs will be about the size of peas, and will be ready to be 
taken up, that they may be kept dry during the winter. About 
the middle of the following February, plant them in drills, about 
8 in. apart, with the bulbs from 4 to 6 in. apart in the row, and 
cover them with a full mch of soil. Some rich manure may be 
laid in the bottom ofthe drill, if convenient. In this manner 
I have grown a crop of onions, averaging from 14 to 16 oz. each. 

Lorton Street, Liverpool, Jan. 13. 1834. 


Physiology of Plants. 269 


REVIEWS. 


Art. I. The Physiology of Plants, or the Phenomena and Laws of Vegetation. 
8vo, 298 pages. London, 1833. 


Tuis very interesting little volume is, we believe, by Mr. Murray, whose 
Manual of Chemistry was noticed in IX. 607. The work is divided into thirteen 
chapters, which treat of the distinction between animal and vegetable being, 
the composition of the plant, the root, the stem, the blossom, seeds, the phe- 
nomena of germination, the ascent and circulation of the sap, the peculiar 
secretions of plants, the condensation and retention of moisture by trees, 
parasitic vegetation, extremes of temperature in relation to vegetation, aquatic 
vegetation, purification of the atmosphere, eccentricities of plants, relations of 
light and electricity to plants, age of plants, &c.: and, under these heads, the 
work contains a mass of interesting facts and phenomena in relation to vege- 
tation, from the germination of the seed to that period when, deprived of the 
animating principle, the plant becomes the subject of that puiely chemical 
agency which finally accomplishes its total decomposition. 

As the excretory organs of plants are now engaging the attention of several 
of your correspondents, it may not be out of place to give the author’s ideas 
upon the subject: — “ In a variety of experiments made with the hyacinth 
raised in a bulb glass, and supplied with distilled water, I constantly found 
that the water in which the fibrils were extended became soon impregnated 
with carbonic acid gas, when excluded from all external sources of its produc- 
tion; and, by the addition of a little lime-water in the first instance, I some- 
times had an interesting deposition, on the sides of the glass, of minute rhom- 
boidal crystals of transparent carbonate of lime. It seems to me, therefore, 
that the functions of the root are twofold, and that it is composed of two 
classes of organs, one of which act as absorbents, and the other as excretory 
vessels: the former appear to be resident in the spongelets, and the latter in 
the cortical pores. It is worthy of remark, as connected with this question, 
that coloured fluids, which find an easy ingress through the spongelets, will 
not pass through the cortical orifices. The superfluous egesta occasioned by 
an unusual richness of the soil cannot be evolved in a sufficient ratio by the 
foliage. During the presence of the sunbeams, leaves cast off oxygen, while 
the carbon of the carbonic acid gas is appropriated and assimilated: but it is 
by no means probable that the entire quantity of carbonic acid gas which rises 
in the stem during the day can be constantly decomposed amid the various 
changes of light and shade, to make no mention of the liquid matter which 
has been evolved.” 

In treating of the blossom (chap. v.), the author adverts to it as the found- 
ation of the beautiful system of Linnzus, upon which he passes the highest 
eulogium, while he asserts that “ what has been lauded as the natural system is 
the most unnatural jumble of incongruities that ever was collected together.” 

We shall next give a few extracts from an interesting part of the chapter, 
where it is demonstrated by experiments “ that, in the sunbeam, each indivi- 
dual colour of the chromatic series, as arranged upon the painted disc of the 
flower, denotes the evolution of a peculiar grade of temperature, in exact 
unison with that evolved in the same tints of the prism. The late Sir W. 
Herschel found that a delicate thermometer, placed in the violet ray of the 
solar spectrum, indicated an acquired temperature of 2° above the ambient 
atmosphere. The green exhibited an increase of 2°25°, and the maximum 
of temperature in the red ray amounted to 4°5833 Fahr.” In verification of 
these facts, the author refers to experiments by which he discovered, from the 
degree of caloric that followed the formation of a peculiar colour, produced 
by the chemical union of different substances, “ that each colour of the pris- 
matic series displays, at the instant of its evolution, a corresponding and 
peculiar temperature. The results yielded, for violet, 1°; blue, 1°5°; yellow, 


270 Report of Devon and Cornwall Bot. and Hort. Scc. 


2°5°; and red, 7°5°, above the mean temperature of the substances employed 
for the formation of the different colours. 

“T shall now give the temperature of various flowers, ascertained by a very 
delicate and sensitive thermometer, being the result of experiments made by 
me during the years 1822 and 1823. Ona stage in the shade, the Richardza 
zethicpica was 55° Fahr.; the Hosa odorata, pale blush, 56°; and Amaryllis 
Johnsoni 57. When the air was 54°5° Fahr., the Kérria japénica flore pléno 
indicated 56°, and the double red anemone 57°5°. These exhibitions prove a 
temperature peculiar to each individual colour. From a numerous list of 
experiments I shall select a few, in the order of the prismatic series : — 


White Flowers. Blue Flowers. 
Air, Air. 
Sept. 9. 1822, at 62 p.m. 53°59 Daisy - 52:59 | May 21.1823 - ~~ 540° Bluebell - 55:0° 
60° Bramble - 59:5 May 30. - -70°5 Blueiris - 715 
May 21.1823 - . 585 Pond-weed 575 | May 3l. oy ol Gentianella 77 
May 31., noon - - 81 Narcissus 80°5 July 24. = - 635 Bee larkspur 67 
Semidouble 4 (sunshine.) 
oO. 5 
July 24.,5 P.M. =e 00 Reareon hors 
“ellow Flowers. Red Flowers. 
Air. Air, 
Ledéntodon Double red : 
May 26. 60° $ Frasacuin 64° sunshine May/21-,noon\812 f pzony }ss0 sunshine: 
(Dandelion) Addnis au- hea 
63 doen do. 7 } tumnialis tre sun, clouds 
Atnoon 70°5 do. 73 do. 73 do. 77 sun, bright 
705  Goldenball[?173 do. July 24. 54 Rose - =) 58°5 oar 
Yellow- L¥chnis ° 22 
82 ; horned bss do. 59 chalced6- > aa 
poppy : . nica (scar- ' J eo 
A Single yel- let lychnis) J 6 i= 
July 24%. 5 p.m. 57°5 § Tees fen do. 


“ White flowers do not differ materially in the heat evolved from them 
from the ambient air, either in sunshine or shade; and it is probable that 
they decompose less atmospheric air than flowers of other colours. The tem- 
perature of flowers is always higher than that of the surrounding air during 
sunshine, white flowers, perhaps, excepted. It is quite remarkable to notice 
the effect produced on them by even a cloud passing over the solar disc. In 
such circumstances, while the air was 71°, the flower of the Adonis was only 
72°; but on the returning gleam, the temperature rose 4°. The comparison 
between the air and flower was always made under similar circumstances.” 

From. a detail of experiments made by Theodore Saussure, it appears 
evident that the inflorescence is more destructive of oxygen than the leaves. 
A beautiful reason is assigned for the sleep of plants, for the shutting of the 
corolla at night to preserve the parts of fructification from the cooling effects 
of radiation to a nocturnal sky, and for the similarity of colour that exists in 
flowers found in similar elevations and latitudes ; but for these we must refer 
the reader to the work itself, as well as for a mass of other interesting facts. 
Among these we may notice a dissection of the leaf, and an analysis of the 
fluid contained in the pitcher of the Nepénthes distillatoria, which throw much 
light upon the circulation of the sap; and also an able exposure of some 
modern speculations respecting life and motion, which the author calls “ the 
most wild and visionary fancies that ever were promulgated.” — Scientie et 
Justitie Amator. King’s Road, Chelsea, April 26. 1834. 


Art. II. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, Rural Archi- 
tecture, §c., lately published, with some Account of those considered the most 
interesting. . 

HOURTH Annual Report of the Committee of the Royal Devon and Cornwall Bo- 
tanical and Horticultural Society. Pamphlet, 8vo, 101 pages. Plymouth, 
1834. 2s. 


When we mention that this Report is drawn up by our correspondent, Dr. 
Hamilton, the honorary secretary to the Society, our readers will readily sup- 


Doyles Flower-Garden, &c. 271 


pose that it contains some curious and interesting matter. There are remarks 
on promoting the comforts of cottagers, on the O’xalis crenata, on collecting 
manures, &c., &c. Dr. Hamilton does not think, with us, that the tubers of 
the O’xalis crenata are produced by the checking of the underground stolones 
from the decline of temperature late im autumn. “ This,’ he says, “ would 
be a very philosophic mode of accounting for the formation of these tubers, 
were it not that the plant is a native of a region to the south of the line, little 
elevated above the ocean, within the tropics, and where the lowest tempera- 
ture does not descend farther, according to Humboldt, than 55° 4’ of Fahren- 
heit ; and this at a season the reverse Gf that at which the tubers begin, to 
appear with us. October, in Peru, corresponds with the vernal month of 
April on the north of the line; at which time the circulation of the sap is in 
full vigour, and the temperature cf the year increasing, instead of diminishing : 
hence, unless we assume that the plant has altered its habits since its intro- 
duction into this climate, we must ascribe the late formation of the tubers to 
some other cause than the reduction of temperature checking the prolongation 
of the stolones, and causing an accumulation of sap in their extremities.” p. 43. 


The Flower-Garden, or Monthly Calendar of Practical Directions for the Cul- 
ture of Flowers. By Martin Doyle, Author of “ Hints to Small Farmers,” 

“ Practical Gardening,” &c. 12mo, 170 pages. Dublin, 1834. 

The aim of this work, like that of all those in which Mr. Doyle is engaged, 
is excellent; and though we do not think it calculated to be so useful as his 
Practical Gardening, still it will serve to spread a taste for flowers. The 
objection we have to the work is, that tender articles, florists’ flowers, and 
plants that require extraordinary care, are not sufficiently marked out from 
those that require only ordinary care. Something, we think, should have 
been done to point out the beauty of wild flowers, and to mark out such of 
them as are known to be capable of great improvement by cultivation, and 
cross fecundation. It is of importance to impress on the mind of every 
man who has a garden or a field to cultivate, that nature gives only the rude 
materials, the sloe and the crab, and that it is for man to render them sub- 
servient to his purpose, to form plums and apples from them, by cultivation ; 
and that cross fecundation is, next to abundance and concentration of nourish- 
ment, one of the most important points of culture. 


The First Report of the Oxford Botanical and Natural History Society, esta- 
blished August 30. 1831; with the Rules of the Society, a List of Members, 
and a Catalogue of the Books in the Society's Library. Pamphlet, 8vo, 20 
pages. Oxford, 1832. 


The object of this Society is to promote the study of natural history in 
general; and more particularly botany and horticulture. This object it wili 
endeavour to accomplish, Ist, by reading origmal communications, or extracts 
from useful and interesting works on these subjects ; 2dly, by occasional lec- 
tures; 3dly, by the purchase of periodical and other books relating to these 
departments of knowledge; and 4thly, by the formation of a library, herba- 
rium, &c., for the use of the members. 

Donations of books, drawings, prints, specimens, &c., connected with natural 
history, from those who may wish to promote the object of the Society, will 
always be acceptable. 

The rules are twenty-seven, the catalogue includes seventy distinct works, 
and the lists of presentations are considerable. Ten different periodicals are 
takenin. The terms of subscription are 10s. on entrance, and Is. a month after- 
wards. Persons residing at a distance from Oxford do not receive books till 
they have been two months in the possession of the Society. 

It appears from this pamphlet, that when we stated on the authority of Mr. 
Humphreys (109.), that the establishment of a garden library for the use of 
the Oxford gardeners was first proposed by him, we were in error. Possibly 
we may have misunderstood Mr. Humphreys. 


272 General Notices. — Foreign Notices. 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. I. General Notices. 


A COMMUNICATION by means of Steam between India and England. —I hail 
with anxious impatience the establishment of this mode of communication, 
by means of which, seeds and plants will have a chance of surviving the 
transmission, beyond any thing they now possess, even under the most atten- 
tive treatment and greatest solicitude for their preservation. From my own 
personal experience, as well as from that of hundreds of others, 1 know that 
it is the second crossing of the equator which forms the most formidable ob- 
stacle in the way of prosperously conveying such objects as plants; but if the 
period of the voyage can be shortened to within little more than two months, 
safety, whether the line be crossed twice or not, will be almost certain. — 
N. Wallich. Botanic Garden, Calcutta, Nov. 22. 1833. [See IX. 83. for 
an abstract of Dr. Wallich’s excellent precautions, advice, and practice, on 
transporting living plants from India. In the Scotsman of May 3. it is stated 
that the steam communication with India, by means of the Red Sea, has com- 
menced; the Hugh Lindsay steamer having left Bombay, Feb. 1., and reached 
Suez, March 4.; a distance of 3400 miles in about a month. There is a 
regular steam packet between Falmouth and Malta, which makes the voyage 
in sixteen days, and all that is wanting is another steam packet between Malta 
and Alexandria, and this would bring the whole voyage from Bombay to 
London within two months.] 

The Many-stemmed Mulberry (Morus multicailis) is said to be greatly su- 
perior to all the other species and varieties in the number of leaves which it 
produces, as well as in the quantity of nutriment which these leaves contain. 
Plants may be obtained from M. Guérin, at Honfleur, near Havre, and from 
M. Soulange-Bodin, at Fromont, near Paris. (L’ Agronome, vol. i. p. 187.) 

The fragrant-flowered Variety of Cyclamen pérsicum. (187, 188.) — I may say 
that we have now a small plant of this variety, with about a dozen flowers, 
which completely scents a large room. It is possible, however, that Mr. Turner 
(188.) is right with regard to his plant, for lhave some idea that the pérsicum 
which we had some years since had no scent, and that I purchased the parent 
of the present plant on account of its perfume.—F. L. S. May 2. 1834. 

If F. L. 8.’s idea, that the flowers of the parent of his present plant were 
also fragrant, be accurate, we learn from it that the fragrance of the flower 
is, in this variety, hereditary. —J. D. 


Art. II. Foreign Notices. 


GERMANY. 


THE Gardens of General Vandamme at Cassel are celebrated. The general 
halted one day at the castle of Prince Piickler-Muskau, in Silesia, and talked 
a great deal to him about his house and gardens. “ Among other things, he 
stated that the whole garden was surrounded with iron railings of different: 
patterns, all of which he had taken out of German churches; and that his 
cellar was not badly filled with wine, also out of German convents.” Curi- 
ously enough, the prince was afterwards of a party that took Cassel. “I had 
then,” says he, “ an opportunity of satisfying my curiosity about Vandamme’s 
pleasure-grounds. I found all exactly as he had told me, but suffered no re- 
prisals to be made upon him; only I had one old wine cask, on which was 
written, in great letters, Aws dem Kloster Molk, brought out of the cellar into. 
Bey and divided it among my men.” (For. Quart. Review, May, 1834, 
p. 392. 


Domestic Notices : — England. 278 


AUSTRALIA. 


Hobart Town, Van Diemen’s Land, Oct. 11. 1833. — “ Among the valuable 
seeds and plants introduced into the colony by Mr. Sams, recently returned 
to us by the Indiana, are two from the Mauritius, indigenous to that island; 
namely, the Mowrung and Telfairia, the latter named after Mr. Telfair, the 
late eminent botanist and scholar of that place. The Mowrung is a most 
beautiful quick-growing plant, bearing a pod of about 5 or 6 in. in length, 
filled with black seeds about the size of a small bean or large pea. In its 
young state, the leaves and pods, and also the roots, are eatable, it thus proving 
a most useful and palatable esculent. Should it thrive in this island, which, 
with the care usually bestowed by Mr. Davidson of the government garden, in 
inuring plants of similar latitudes to the climate of this place, and the great 
success already attending his exertions, it may be expected will be the case, 
it will ultimately prove a valuable acquisition to the colony. The Telfairia is 
also a diadelphous plant, bearing a seed about the size of a kidneybean, 
covered with a reticulated skin, and climbing up any supporter to a towering 
height. Both plants have been recently introduced into England. 

“ A new species of Eucalyptus was lately discovered by Mr. Backhouse, in 
the course of a journey that gentleman made to Mount Wellington. It is a 
stately tree, resembling the stringy bark, or E. robasta; and grows in abund- 
ance near the highest range of forest vegetation at the foot of the perpendi- 
cular basaltic columns, with a seed-vessel resembling in shape a Grecian urn. 
All along the same place the beautiful mountain-grass tree with its elegant 
white spikes is now in full bloom, covering the whole space around. This 
species of Xanthorrhee’a is different from, and still more elegant than, the Risdon 
grass tree, so common in sandy places on the Richmond side of the river. 
Persons fond of ornamenting their gardens with the beautiful shrubs and 
flowers of this island should not be deterred from transplanting them, under 
the apprehension that they will not bear removal from the shady situations in 
which so many of the most elegant are found; for, when carefully removed 
with the sward, so as not much to disturb the roots, and watered for a few 
days, they will often thrive to admiration, shooting their roots with facility 
through the pulverised and loose soil of the garden, 

“ Mr. Sams, we have great pleasure in stating, besides the very valuable 
collection of plants which he has brought out under his own care, and those 
which he formerly sent while in England, has established, under the sanction 
and patronage of the queen, a regular communication with Mr. Aiton of the 
royal gardens at Kew, from which he will, from time to time, receive such 
as are still wanting in the colony, and will send home, in return, such indige- 
nous seeds and plants as, from their beauty or rareness, deserve to be brought 
under the notice of the intelligent English botanist.” (Hobart Town Courier, 
Oct. 11. 1833.) 


Art. III. Domestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


THE Botanic Garden, Oxford, seems destined to undergo considerable im- 
provements. Dr. Daubeny, immediately on being elected professor, had a 
plan engraved of the garden as it is, and another plan indicating extensive 
additions and alterations. Theadditions are, chiefly, the proposed use of the 
space without the walls (mentioned p, 110.), which had hitherto been turned 
to little account ; and the alterations are, chiefly, turning the western division 
of the garden into a place for displaying the natural arrangement, and erecting 
two green-houses. ‘The plans have been kindly sent to us by Mr. Baxter, and 
they are accompanied by an Address, dated March 14th, from Dr. Daubeny, 
to the President and Fellows of the Royal College of Physicians in London, 
by whom he was elected. From this Address we make the following interest- 
ing extract : — 

“ The Physic Garden comprehends a space of nearly five acres of ground, 


274 Domestic Notices : — England. 


of which, however, only three are enclosed within walls, the remainder lying 
chiefly betwixt the latter and the river Cherwell. Its contiguity to the water 
has at all times rendered the situation subject to damp; but the most serious 
evil incident upon such a locality, namely, the liability to flooding, seems now 
to be removed, owing to the large quantities of new soil which have from time 
to time been introduced, and which have raised its general level considerably. 
Neverthless, as that which is brought in has not always been of a good quality, 
the addition of many fresh loads of soil, of a better description, seems even at 
the present time to be required, for the sake of the plants therein cultivated. 

“ The whole of the space within the walls has hitherto been applied to the 
elucidation of the Linnean system, the eastern division being chiefly occupied 
by British, the western by exotic plants, arranged after that method. The 
increasing interest, however, felt in the present day for the natural method of 
arrangement, seems to render it desirable that this latter half should henceforth 
be set apart for its illustration: but, m order to accomplish this, it will be 
necessary to gain some additional space, which can only be done by removing 
the double yew hedge that traverses the centre of the garden, and which has 
long been regarded as objectionable from harbouring vermin. 

“‘ The space without the walls has hitherto been turned but to little account ; 
but it seems desirable that, in future, a portion of this ground should be de- 
voted to plants employed in medicine, agriculture, or the arts : the former 
being enjoined to be cultivated in some part of the garden by the original 
framers of the statute relating to the Sherardian Professorship; the latter 
being particularly insisted on in the will of that munificent benefactor to the 
establishment, the late Professor John Sibthorp. 

“ The remainder might be made available for the purposes of an Experi- 
mental Garden, for ascertaining the effects of soils, or of chemical agents, 
upon vegetation, and for other researches of a similar description. ; 

“¢ The only means which we possess at present for the cultivation of aquatic 
plants being a few narrow cisterns, or tanks, lined with copper, which are 
placed at the farther extremity of the garden, a basin of considerable size 
seems a desideratum, for which the centre of the space enclosed within the 
walls would afford a convenient site. 

‘© The houses existing at present for the reception of exotics areas follows : 
A stove-house, 30 ft. long, 14 broad, and about 12 in height, very badly con- 
structed, having glass only on one side, and much out of repair. Two green- 
houses, each 30 ft. long, 10 wide, 14 ft. in height in front, but only 10 at the 
back, extremely ill-constructed for most kinds of plants, and likewise in very 
bad repair. Lastly, a green-house, in the centre of the western division of 
the garden, without any glass on the top, and very indifferently supplied with 
light from windows in its southern front. It is 66 ft. long, 133 in height, and 
in the centre 22 wide, narrowing at the sides. These houses were erected 
about a century ago, at a time when the mode of constructing green-houses 
was but ill understood, and when the cultivation of hot-house plants was al- 
most unknown. The decayed condition of the frames, timbers, &c., involves 
a considerable annual expense ; for it would appear, taking an average of the 
last five years, that no less than 60/. per annum is required for keeping these 
and the other buildings connected with the establishment even in their present 
condition. 

“ Up to the period of the erection of the new bridge over the Cherwell, 
near Magdalen College, a house had been kept up for the professor of botany, 
who is indeed expressly enjoined to reside, if possible, at the garden. In the 
year 1795, however, the improvement of the approaches to the bridge occa- 
sioned the pulling down of the house, and one of the green-houses was then 
converted into the purposes of a library and lecture-room, which is conse- 
quently now the only apartment of which the professor can avail himself, 
whether for the purposes of private study or of public instruction. This room 
is of the same size as the largest of the green-houses already specified, and 
serves as the depository both of the library and the herbarium. 


Domestic Notices: — England. 275 


“ The library consists of about 1900 volumes, comprehending the valuable 
and curious collection of botanical books presented by Consul Sherard, con- 
sisting of about 600 volumes; that originally belonging to Bobart, one of the 
keepers of the garden, and probably others, which may be estimated altogether 
at about 280 volumes; the library of Dr. John Sibthorp, amounting to about 
750 volumes; and the remainder bequeathed by the late Professor Williams, 
or given to the Sherardian library by his executrix. The books appear in 
many cases to be suffering severely from damp, owing to their having remained 

for many years at the farther extremities of a room heated by only a single 
fireplace at its centre. The library also contains a most valuable and exten- 
sive series of dried plants obtained from various quarters; amongst the donors 
of which I may specify Dr. Morrison, who first held the professorship, and 
Consul Sherard, who endowed it, and whose Herbarium alone is said to con- 
tain 12,000 specimens: there is also a collection, occupyimg no less than 72 
folio volumes, purchased of Mr. Charles du Bois by the first Professor Sib- 
thorp; one by Professor Dillenius, intended to il Illustrate his Muscologia ; 
another very extensive one, presented by Lord Macartney ; and a small but 
nicely arranged series of plants made by Dr. Thomas Shaw, the traveller, in 
Barbary, Greece, and Egypt, and referred to in his work. To these I shall 
have to add, a large Herbarium aceumulated by the younger Dr. Sibthorp in 
Greece and ‘Turkey, one presented by the East India Company, and another 
of Australian specimens, which have hitherto been deposited, for want of 
proper room, in the Ratcliffe library ; my own collection, illustrative of the 
natural system, which, being chiefly made at Geneva, is richest in Swiss plants ; 
and another, of British ones, presented by the Rev. R. Walker, author of the 
Flora of Oxfordshire. There is also a collectien of minerals, shells, and 
corallines, made by that indefatigable naturalist, the author of the Flora 
Greca. 

© The only other building which need be noticed is the gardener’s house, 
the bed-rooms of which are damp and unhealthy, from being placed on the 
ground floor contiguous to a stagnant ditch. The rooms are also all of them 
extreniely confined, and especially the gardener’s own private study. 

“ From the above statement of the present condition of the establishment 
of the Oxford Botanic Garden, it will appear that the most pressing want is 
that of better houses for stove and green-house plants, the present ones, and 
especially the stove-house, being not only teo confined, but also so miserably 
constructed, that all hopes of cultivating rare and curious exotics, as is usual 
in other public gardens of the same description, must be abandoned, until 
better are obtained. I think, too, that a mere reference to the large annual 
expense of maintaining them, even in their present imperfect state of repair, 
will make it appear that the most advisable, as well as, eventually, the most 
economical plan, would be that of pulling down all, except the principal 
central green-house, to the ground, and erecting new ones in their place. 

* Considering, also, the extent and value of the present collections; the 
probability of future additions ; the difficulty of rendermg them so extensively 
useful as it is to be wished they should become, whilst crowded within the 
present narrow limits; the circumstance that, by the will of the late Professor 
Sibthorp, no less than 100/. a year is expressly directed to be applied from 
the proceeds of his estate to the purchase of books, so soon as the Fora 
Greca shall have been completed; and the injury sustained by these, as well 
as by the dried plants, in consequence of the necessary application of the 
present library to the purposes of a lecture-room; I feel strongly impressed 
with the necessity of erecting, with the first money that can be raised, after 
that provision which seems indispensable for the plants has been made, one 
additional room at the least for the reception of books, and a small private 
study for the professor, both on the first floor, having underneath suitable 
offices for a servant, who should take charge of the apartments and their 
contents. 

“ The particular mode in which these several objects may best be secured 


276 Domestic Notices : — England. 


will, of course, remain open for farther consideration ; but it may be suggested, 
that the new building required might stand in the place of the old green-house 
now adjoining the library, having its front towards the High Street, projecting 
about 10 ft. beyond the Danby Gateway, from which it would be separated by 
a interval of about 10 ft.; whilst on the opposite side of the latter a new 
green-house of a better construction might be substituted for the present one, 
a uniformity of appearance towards the street being kept up by adding some 
rooms at the back with a corresponding frontage. If this were done, I would 
suggest appropriating the room so obtained at the back of the green-house as 
a depot for the seeds, roots, and dried plants; the ground-floor being parti- 
tioned off, in the manner shown in the plan, into several small rooms for the 
two former, whilst the upper story constituted one entire gallery for the recep- 
tion of the valuable Herbarium. In the event, however, of any arrangement 
being made with the street commissioners, by which the ground represented in 
the design as in their occupation should be secured for the purposes of the 
botanic garden, a better plan would seem to be that of erecting the new apart- 
ments at the back of the present library, with a frontage towards the High 
Street; by which means the necessary accommodations would be obtained, 
without any corresponding building bemg required on the opposite side of the 
Danby Gateway for the sake of uniformity. With respect to the large green- 
house in the centre of the western division of the garden, I conceive that it 
might be made more suitable for the purposes for which it was designed, if the 
present roof were removed, and a skylight were placed in its stead; or even 
In its present form, though nearly useless for plants, it might be made service- 
able as a lecture-room. The two additional houses I would recommend to be 
erected are, one for green-house plants on the western side of that last alluded 
to, of the dimensions stated in the plan, and a corresponding building on the 
eastern side of the library for stove plants, in lieu of the present one, which I 
should then recommend to be pulled entirely down. Lastly, the gardener’s 
house might be improved by an addition to the size of the little study on the 
left, and by erecting another story in which sleeping-rooms might be placed. 
“ The liberal donation of 500/. three per cent consols, which the executrix 
of the late professor has intimated her intention, in compliance with the wishes 
of her late brother, of contributing to the garden fund, will enable me, should 
these views meet with the sanction of the garden committee, to accomplish 
some part of the objects above pointed out; but, for the fulfilment of the re- 
mainder, I must chiefly depend on the contributions of the respective colleges 
and of their individual members, together with those of others, who, it is 
hoped, may feel disposed to place the botanic garden more nearly on a par 
with the other public establishments of this university, and who may desire to 
render it better adapted to the demands of modern science, more adequate to 
the supply of that information, with respect to the properties and uses of 
plants, which by the new medical statute every candidate for a degree in 
physic in Oxford is expected to acquire, and more nearly corresponding to the 


scale on which in other universities such institutions are at present conducted.” 


A Committee has been named, of which Dr. Daubeny is one, and a sub- 
scription commenced, to which various sums have been put down, from 1J. to 
1007. 

The Sheffield Botanic Garden.—The two plans for laying out this garden, 
which received prizes, have been sent for our inspection, and we have been 
very much gratified by examining that of Mr. Marnock. The second best 
plan (by Mr. Taylor, an architect), though neatly drawn, and displaying con- 
siderable taste for picturesque beauty, is yet altogether unfit for a garden of 
culture. It is no disparagement to Mr. Taylor’s talents as an architect, to 
say that he is not also a gardener. The care and attention with which Mr. 
Marnock has gone into the subject, and the provision which he has made for 
every description of culture, evince « mind deeply imbued with knowledge of 
his profession ; and we should not be surprised if this garden should ultimately 
be one of the first, in point of completeness of arrangement, in the kingdom. 


Domestic Notices : — England. 277 


In thanking the Committee for having authorised Mr. Marnock to send us 
the plans, we beg to congratulate them on their having met with so able a 
curator.—Cond. 

A Society for encouraging Cottagers in the Cultivation of their Gardens has 
been established at Trimley in Surrey, chiefly, we believe, through-the exertions 
of Mr. Lance, the author of the Cottage Farmer.—Iad. 

Dropmore, it is said, has been described, and illustrated with beautiful 
engravings, im 2 work prepared under the direction of the late Lord Grenville 
a short time before his death, and now printing for private distribution. We 
hope some friend will procure us the sight of a copy.—Id. 

The Pantheon Bazaar, Oxford Street, for the sale of plants, &c., mentioned 
p- 160., is now completed. It well merits the attention of the commercial 
florists and nurserymen in the neighbourhood of the metropolis ; and we hope 
it will at once serve as an outlet for a large portion of their produce, and as a 
school for promoting a taste for flowers.—TId. 

Several Plans of Conservatories and other plant buildings have lately been 
shown to us by Mr. Wm. Crosskill of the Beverley Foundery, constructed 
almost entirely of cast iron. Considering the quantity of metal employed in 
pilasters, architraves, cornices, &c., we were surprised at their cheapness ; but 
we were most gratified by a mode of giving air by the sympathetic and instan- 
taneous movement of valves. There is nothing new im the idea of doing this, 
but it is seldom that we find it successfully carried into execution on a large 
scale. The floor of a conservatory erected by Mr. Crosskill, for R. Bethel, 
Esq., M. P., at Rose Park near Beverley, is entirely paved, with the exception 
of openings 10 or 12 ft. apart every way, in which standard trees are planted. 
Over the circle or square of earth round each tree, there is a cast-iron grating, 
in two pieces, so as to fit into each side of the stem, for the purpose of 
admitting air and water to the soil. In consequence of this arrangement, every 
part of the conservatory may be used as a drawing-room, or promenade, like 
the winter gardens of Berlin. (V. 251.) — Id. 

The Broad Walk in Kensington Gardens is now (April 30th), after these 
genial rains, being harrowed up with Finlayson’s harrow drawn by six horses. 
After the gravel has been hand-picked from large stones, and made even with 
rakes, it will be rolled by a very heavy horse roller, and will require no more 
attention, except once or twice rolling, for a year or two. This may afford 
a hint to gardeners, for the management of approach roads, where they are of 
great extent.—Id. 

Mr, Samuel Currie, gardener at Stanley Hall in the neighbourhood of 
Wakefield, has lately left England with a view of establishing himself as a 
market- gardener at Washington, in the United States. We have no doubt of 

“his ultimate success.— Jd. 

The Great Cherry Tree of Withermarsh Green is the name applied to a 
cherry tree now growing on Withermarsh Green, in this parish (Stoke Nayland, 
Suffolk), and this name I consider it well entitled to hold; as, among a vast 
number of its kind, which are to be found in this and the adjoining parishes 
(it being quite a cherry district), I have never seen one worthy of being com- 
pared with it, either as to size or beauty. It is of the kind which produces 
the small red cherry. Several of the lower branches have been, at different 
times, lopped, and others have been injured by cattle, or they would long ere 
this have nearly reached the ground. The height of the tree, from the ground 
to the tip of the upper boughs, is 46 ft.; the girth of the trunk, at twelve feet 
from the ground, is 9 ft.; the girth of the three principal arms, near the trunk, 
is about 5 ft.; the spread of the branches, from north to south, is 74 ft.; the 
spread of the boughs, from west to east, 62 ft.— J.D. Hoy. Stoke Nayland, 
Suffolk, Feb. 11. 1834. 

There is scarcely a lovelier object than a cherry tree in blossom. The leaves 
are yet absent, and every branch a rich wreath of snow-white graceful blossoms. 
What a feast to the eye and to the heart it must be, to pass through the cherry 
district above spoken of early in May!—J. D. 


Vou. X.— No, 51. U 


278 Domestic Notices : — England. 


Cédrus Deodara Rox. — Dr. Wallich, of the Calcutta Botanical Garden, has 
sent us some seeds, for distribution, of this very interesting tree. His letter 
is dated Nov. 22. 1833. He speaks of the seeds as, then, received “ about a 
fortnight ago from Kumaon,” and expresses his hope that they may reach us 
in a vegetative state. He adds:—‘“ Those which I have sowed here have 
come up in ten days from the time they were put into the ground. Contrary 
to my express orders, they had been taken out of their cones before being for- 
warded to me from the hills; but I expect ample supplies of fresh and good 
cones, of which I will send you a proportion. There is in the box, also, a phial 
of seeds, of 

“ The White Nelambium specivswm, a most lovely flower, more lovely to my 
eyes, than the pink-coloured one.” 

We received the seeds on May 12. 1834. Those of the Cédrus Deodara, 
in four sealed phials, were all devoid of life, and some of them nearly rotten. 
A white mould was obvious among the seeds towards the necks of the vials, 
where it coated, also, the end of the cork, and, partially, the inward face of 
the phial. The source of this may have been some fermentation among the 
seeds themselves; the dampness of the cork when put in; or some damp- 
ness which it had acquired subsequently. The oily matter which surrounds 
the embryo in the Coniferz, and is plentiful in the seeds of this species, had 
partially come through to the surface of the seed, and appeared in blisters 
under the integument. The embryoes (polycotyledonous) were flaccid and 
yellow. Just for the chance of any one of the numerous seeds growing, we 
have sowed them ourselves: had they been perfect, we should have sent 
them, as Dr. Wallich wished, to various cultivators. 

Since the above was written, we have received a small quantity of the 
deodar seeds from Mr. Auben of the East India House, sent by direction of the 
Chairman of the Company. These seeds are in quite the case of those above 
named, but drier. Along with them, Mr. Auben forwarded extracts from 
letters from Dr. Wallich; one of which we quote :—“ The deodar cedar is, of 
all others, the most desirable to introduce into England. It is equal in state- 
liness and magnificence to the Lebanon cedar, and far superior to it in the fra- 
grance of its wood, which is incredibly durable. The tree will stand the cli- 
mate of the North of Europe, beyond all doubt.” Dr. Wallich, besides again 
noticing that the seeds had germinated with him in ten days in the open ground, 
has added, “and under glass, in my own room, in eight days.” 

The seeds of the Nelimbium, twenty-two in number, we have distributed 
in pairs to Mrs. Lawrence, Mrs. Marryatt, Messrs. W. Young and Penny, 
Loddiges, Low, Knight, Campbell, Bevan, Baxter, and Allcard; and C. A. 
Fischer, Gottingen. 

Our friend, Dr. Wallich, remarks that seeds, roots, or growing plants, of ° 
all rare species, exotic to India, and especially of South American species, 
will be always welcome to the botanic garden at Calcutta; and we hope that 
some of the friends named above will be able to contribute, at least in some 
degree, to the gratification of Dr. Wallich’s wishes. 

Two Specimens of Brompton Stock, the one red and the other white, have 
been sent to us from the garden of Mr. Cullen, of the Brown Bear, Green- 
hithe, of extraordinary luxuriance and beauty. The principal spike of flowers 
on the red stock is a foot in length, and it is surrounded by twelve others, 
varying in length from 9 in. to 6 in. The number of flowers fully expanded 
on the central spike is twenty, not one of which is faded; and there are nearly 
as many on each of the twelve side spikes. Most of the flowers are upwards 
of an inch and a half across. The central spike of the white stock is 14 in. in 
length, and there are thirty flowers on it fully expanded, and many of them above 
2 in. across: nine of the lower flowers have thrown out secondary flowers or 
spikes from their centres; and it is evident that all the flowers on this spike 
have a similar tendency. There are only two side spikes to this white stock, 
each with about 15 flowers fully expanded. The leaves are upwards of 9 in. in 
length; those of the red stock are not quite so long. The stem of the white stock, 


Calls at Nurseries and Suburban Gardens. 279 


in the thickest part, is three fourths ofan inch in diameter; that of the red rather 
more than half an inch. The total height of the red stock from the ground 
is about 24 ft., and that of the white 2 ft. Had we received these flowers in 
time, we should have sent them to the Horticultural Society’s exhibition. 
When at Greenhithe, May 6., we were shown some very fine Brompton stocks 
in the garden of Mr. Wilson the surgeon there; and a purple Brompton stock 
in the garden of Foster, Esq., covered with bloom, which Mr. Foster 
assured us had remained in that state, summer and winter, for upwards of 
two years. It formed quite a large shrub.—Cond. 


Art. IV. Calls at Nurseries and Suburban Gardens. 


VAUXHALL Nursery, Messrs. Chandler and Son. — April 26. In the show 
house, we found a very splendid display, more especially of hybrid rhododen- 
drons, Ghent azaleas, Azalea indica Smithz, Cape heaths, and acacias and 
other plants from New Holland. The plants in the other houses were, as 
usual, beautifully grown, and in excellent order. A few camellias and Mag- 
nolia Soulangeana were still in bloom on a wall with a western exposure ; 
and the pelargonium-house was in an advanced state, some of the varieties 
having already expanded their flowers. There was a rich collection of tree 
ponies in the open air, showing great abundance of bloom; which, however, 
from its advanced state, and the cold east winds so long prevalent, will, we 
fear, not expand freely. The appearance of Magnolia Soulangedza here, and 
at Brown’s Nursery at Slough, induces us strongly to recommend that variety 
as coming into flower later than conspicua, purpurea, or gracilis, as being 
more agreeably scented than any of these, and as being much hardier. Messrs. 
Chandler have a number of plants, the evergreen American varieties of that 
beautiful genus Bérberis; ultimately these varieties will find their way into 
every collection. From one species they have raised young plants, from seed 
ripened in their own nursery. 

Mr. Groom’s Tulip Show commenced April 26., but, owing to the severity 
of the weather, the flowers were not so far expanded as it was expected that 
they would be. On the whole, however, they promise well. Mr. Groom’s 
pelargoniums are remarkably well grown this season; and he has also a stock 
of Fuchsia longiflora; which was lately advertised by the original grower, as 
having a flower 6 in. long! Mr. Groom has also a large stock of M/imulus 
Smith. Both here, and at Mr. Chandler’s, it is found a great advantage to 
this plant to set it in a pan of water. 

The Surrey Zoological Gardens are continually undergoing improvement in 
a gardening and architectural pomt of view, altogether independently of the 
valuable zoological additions which they are always receiving. Among 
the latter was a young rhinoceros. These gardens now include 15 acres, 
besides some exterior paddocks, which are available for the uses of the animals. 
We are happy to find that almost all the trees and shrubs in the arboretum 
here are named on tallies 3 or 4 ft. high, so that they do not require the 
spectator to stoop, nor are they liable to be hidden by the leaves or branches. 
Mr. Watts, who is now the head gardener here, has a just idea of what ought 
to be done, and is filling the gravel walks to the brim, and softening the out- 
lines of the dug masses. In the grand dome is a most ingenious portable 
apparatus for heating by hot water, invented by Mr. Morgan, which we intend 
to give an account of in an early Number. 

Colvill’s Nursery. — April 28. A splendid show of forced flowers and 
shrubs, and various articles in flower in the hot-houses and green-houses. 
Some standard tree roses, varieties of the #. indica, in pots, were covered 
with bloom, and were very brilliant as well as fragrant. These roses require 
very little forcing, compared with the common Provence rose; and, when this 
is generally known, and the new fragrant varieties are spread over the country, 
rosebuds at Christmas will be common in every village. 

U 2 


280 Calls at Nurseries 


The Chelsea Botanic Garden looks, as usual at this season, remarkably well. 
We found our excellent friend the curator as busy as ever, and as happy as a 
man can be who enjoys good health, a clear conscience, and a competent m- 
come, and who is fully occupied in a pursuit altogether to his taste. He 
pointed out to us a row of the different varieties of Scilla non scripta, which 
were planted by the late Mr. Haworth the day before he died ; a Windsor 
pear, grafted on a quince stock in a cankered state, and beside it a St. Ger- 
main pear on the same kind of stock, very healthy ; which would seem obviously 
suggesting, as Mr. Anderson mentioned, the idea, that, to dwarf the Windsor 
pear, it must be grafted on some other pear, which had been previously grafted 
on a quince stock and had thriven. Mr. Anderson has turned out against his 
walls a number of New Holland shrubs, which, in the dry sandy soil of the 
Chelsea Garden, may probably live through the winter. We saw several new 
alpines, and some new hardy trees and shrubs from Nepal and Peru. 

Exotic Nursery, King’s Road. — Mr. Knight is erecting some new plant 
houses and pits, some ef which are being heated by Mr. Weeks, on a new and 
ingenious plan. Three pits or small houses.will be heated from one boiler 
at one end; either all three at once, or two, or one at a time, as may be con- 
sidered desirable. 

A considerable importation of plants from China has been sent to Mr. 
Knight, by J. Reeves, Esq., F.H.S., &c., of Clapham, which is expected to 
contain several new species. — Cond. 

On May day we had a pleasant stroll through Mr. Knight’s houses, in com- 
pany with the most able foreman, our very intelligent friend, Mr. Alexander 
Scott. The more mentionable of the plants which we therein saw belong to 
the orders Orchidez, Hriceze, Rhedoracez, Legumindse, and Proteaceae. 

Mr. Knight’s collection of tropical Orchideze is becoming eminent; for, in 
addition to his original stock of these plants, and to his having added to it, by 
purchase, the stock of W. Cattley, Esq., he has farther added to it, by pur- 
chase, so lately as February last, the collection of the deceased Mrs. Arnold 
Harrison. The relatives of this amiable lady had found her favourite plants 
but a painful and ever-present remembrancer of their bereavement, and so 
resolved to remove them from their sight; and Mr. Knight has become the 
fortunate possessor of them. Mr. Richard Harrison has, however, still a fine 
collection of Orchideze. Mr. Scott has given us the following outline of the 
contents of the collection lately Mrs. A. Harrison’s : — “ It is rich in the tribe 
Vandee, which is eminently occidental. There are species of the genera On- 
cidium, Stanhépea, Zygopétalum, Gongora, Corysanthes, Catasétum, Maxil- 
laria, Bifrenaria, Acropora, Peristéria, &c. In the tribe Epidéndrez it is 
also rich in species of the genera Brassavola, Cattléya, Epidéndrum, Bletia, 
&c.; and in the tribe Malaxidez, in species of the genera Pleurothallis, Stélis, 
Liparis, Coe‘lia, Pholidota, Ceelogyne, Bolbophyilum, E‘ria, Dendrobium, &c. 
Among the small flowering kinds, there are species of Saurogléssum, Neottia, 
&c. The collection lately Mrs. A. Harrison’s includes about 160 named or 
known species; and there are, besides, several which have not yet flowered in 
this country.” The plants of this part, and of the whole of Mr. Knight’s Or- 
chidez, are looking in satisfactory health and growth, although Mr. Knight 
believes that the stove at present assigned to them is not every way congenial 
to their welfare, and is, in this belief, now having built a new one, which he 
conceives will be more so. This enterprise cannot fail to earn its own reward, 
nor, we trust, to produce the excellent effect of promoting greatly the insti- 
tution of collections of Orchideee among Mr. Knight’s customers and visiters. 
Only very few of the species are now flowering: Maxillaria aromatica, with 
ie rich yolk-of-egg yellow cinnamon-scented flowers, is the most pleasing of 
these. 

In Ericez § Rhodoracez, the following plants are noted in our memoranda. 
The two well-known often-mentioned trees of Rhododéndron arboreum 
are bearing heads of their lovely flowers, although fewer of these than they 
have, in some seasons, produced. Upon one tree the flowers are somewhat 


and Suburban Gardens. 281 


smaller, and are grouped into denser heads than are those upon the other. 
The corollas of the two trees are not of the same colour, although both are of 
the variety called the scarlet-flowered tree rhododendron. Mr. Scott showed 
us, also, one or two plants of the pink-flowered tree rhododendron, and of the 
white-flowered tree rhododendron. Of the scarlet and pink flowered varieties, 
plants: are here on sale; but those of the pink-flowered are yet high-priced. 
The last of the flowers (beautiful, indeed, they are!) of the 2. campanulatum 
were now falling. They had been in perfection in the second week in 
April; and as many as thirteen had been counted in a head. This exquisitely 
ornamental plant (see IX. 485.) is asserted to be nearly hardy in Britain: it 
is from Nepal. Mr. Knight has a store of seedling plants of it. A few hy- 
brids: of the R. péntico-arboreum kind were placed in the ranks of the plants 
in the conservatory ; and, though “ hybrids,” as some would reproachfully 
term them, were ornamental in their heads of pretty blossoms. In a frame 
were plants of those interesting dwarf species, R.Chamecistus, lappénicum, and 
chrysanthum. The plants of 2. Chamecistus were flowering rather freely : 
their pale delicate corollas, large for the plant, are very pleasing. In this 
frame were also a plant of the white-corollaed Menziésia poliifolia, from Ire- 
land ;, plants, in flower, of the M. czrulea, from Scotland; and of the Cha- 
mezlédon (Azalea) procambens, also from Scotland, and in flower. Of aza- 
leas in the houses, the most superb was a plant of the A. /edifolia (indica 
alba). It was more than a yard high, its branches spread almost 4 ft., and the 
large white corollas well-nigh touched each other over the whole of the upper 
part of the plant. The flowers give out, too, a pleasant delicate odour. Of 
A. siénsis we saw some last flowers. There is a peculiar beauty in the 
colour of the corolla of ‘this species. Of A. indica, purple-flowered, double, 
two plants bore flowers. The rarer Chinese kinds of Azalea, introduced by 
Mr. M‘Gilligan (1X. 474.), are, we learned, doing very well; and that plants 
of them, for sale, at moderate prices, are expected to be ready in autumn. 

In Leguminosz the most beautiful of the plants in flower (except the Wis- 
taria Consequana within the conservatory, and one in the open air) was Ken- 
nédya dilatata: it is a lovely green-house twiner. The other plants we noted 
are, Acacia pentadenia Lind/. and cordata, Oxylobium rettisum, Gastrolobium 
retusum, Pultenze‘@ villésa, and Adésmia viscosa: of the last, a plant 10 ft. 
high, has stood out through the winter, unhurt, trained to a western-aspected 
wall. Of the Leguminése raised by Mr. Knight, from seeds collected by Mr. 
Baxter, the following are the names of some: — Gompholobium venuldsum, 
capitatum, Knightidnwm, ténue; Burtonia conférta, Dillwynia? glycinefolia, 
Chorézema ovatum, Scéttia le‘vis, and some others. 

In Protedcee the foremost objects are two blooming plants of Telopea 
speciosissima, each more than 6 ft. high, topped by striking (as Telopea signi- 
fies) heads of flowers. The stock of plants cf banksias and dryandras raised 
from Mr. Baxter’s seeds has been much reduced by sale; those left are looking 
well, and amongst them we were shown plants, two or more, of the rare 
Hemiclidia Baxteri. Banksia Goddw, raised here, is dead, and is, therefore 
probably lost to Britain. 

Of other plants noticeable (without mention of the orders to which they 
belong) are the following :—Pergularia odoratissima, whose fragrance perfumed 
the stove in which it, with the Orchidee, grows; Sdéllya heterophylla in the 
open air, wholly unseathed by the past semblance of a winter, abounding in 
deep green leaves, and showing buds of countless blossoms which will adorn 
it through the summer. Cephalotus follicularis ; Dione‘a Muscipula, plenty 
of; and Asplénium Nidus; Aponogeéton distachyon, Begonia heracleifolia, Pit- 
cairnia albiflos, and Lantana Séllozin the stoves: and, in other compartments, 
these: — Anthocércis littorea, Boronia serrulata, Sarracénia flava, Ribes spe- 
cidsum, Gerardia quercifolia, Sparaxis grandiflora, Alstroeméria oeulata, Hya- 
cinthus amethystinus, Fankia Sieboldtiana, Phléx vérna, Primula pusilla, 
Zappania nodiflora yar. rosea, and Trillium grandiflorum.—J. D. 

Dennis and Co.s Nurseries, Chelsea, May 8,—The grounds in the King’s 

u 3 


282 Calls at Nurseries 


Road present an improved appearance. Numerous beds have been formed, 
and several of them furnished with a somewhat extensive stock of hardy 
bulbous plants. No kinds of plants are capable of contributing more to the 
interest and beauty of the hardy flower-garden, and yet we know not that any one 
professedly cultivates a collection of them for sale; we are glad that Mr. Dennis 
seems to purpose to do this henceforth. A considerable aggregate of species 
and varieties of thefollowing genera are already obvious in the beds:— Narcissus, 
Leucdjum, Scilla, Muscari, Fritillaria, Erythronium, Tudipa, Amaryllis, and 
Lilium. <A contribution towards a collection of irises, as well the creeping 
root-stocked species as the bulbous, is also apparent. Alstreemeria pulchélla 
has here, in the free soil, without any protection, exhibited growing verdant 
herbage, undestroyed by frast through the past winter; while that of A. 
Pelegrina, growing beside it, has been destroyed by frost more than once. A 
collection of florists’ tulips, in three beds, one of the beds under an awning, is 
now blooming: they are very beautiful, and among them are choice kinds. A 
bed of about forty strides long has been made, in a comparatively shaded part, 
of heath mould, and planted with plants for stools of the choicer varieties of 
hardy azaleas; these have been layed: some of the little mtervals im the bed 
have in them herbaceous plants which love heath mould: Helonias bullata is 
one of these. In pots, in gentle hotbeds, the choice Chinese asters have been 
advanced, in the hope of gathering from them well-ripened seeds in the 
autumn. In two beds of plants of Clarkia, some of the plants are showing 
flowers: the whole from seeds sown, probably, as those of many annual plants 
should be in October of the previous year. 

In the nursery in Grosvenor Row, we noted as follows :— The pelargo- 
niums, in their numerous varieties, and an extensive stock of them, are look- 
ing in just the youth of their beauty; they will not be fully blown till 
June. We asked for the names of a few of the now most esteemed varieties, 
and gained the following :—Ne plus ultra, Jack of Newbury (this is of a com- 
pact habit of growth), Admiral Napier (its flowers are splendid), Smith’s mag- 
niflorum, diadématum, Adanson?, concéssum, nonpareil, Weltjiednwm, Master 
Walter, Clarissanwm, falminans, olympicum. Among the unpublished seed- 
lings, three possessed of surpassing qualities are in flower; one of these, which 
is to be called Dennis’s perfection, is in the mode of Smith’s magniflorum, but 
its petals have a fine purple tint, and they form a rounder flower. Some tiny 
youngsters, but a few months old, from seeds, are under culture; in the hope, 
doubtless, of their surpassing, like some of their precursors, all others known 
before them. Of heartseases, now adopted into the florists’ affections, and 
named distinctively in their varieties, Mr. Dennis cultivates a collection: 
several of the kinds are in bloom, and are beautiful. The following names are 
those, Mr. Dennis has told us, of desirable kinds: —Invincible, Bang up, Jessica, 
Prince George, Sol, Pamela, Orestes, violacea, Maid of Athens, John Bull, 
Appleby’s William the Fourth, Lydard’s William the Fourth, Lady Bath, 
Painted lady, Allen’s Adelaide, Kentish hero, Crimson bicolor, Lilac major: of 
these we were struck with Bang up (what an elegant name!) and Pamela. Of 
additional names told us here, and at Mr. Hogg’s, Paddington, these are 
some :—Achilles, Othello, Reform, Sailor boy, Hill’s butterfly, Bunney’s Queen 
Adelaide, and Ajax. Of the varieties of georginas, a most extensive stock of 
young plants is provided, for supplying the orders of the season, and for plant- 
ing out in the King’s Road Nursery for display in autumn. Some of the kinds 
already show flower-buds, and one kind, The Maid of St. Leonard’s, has a 
flower expanded. Of the cbjects which, in the general collection, came under 
our eye, we name the following:—Plants of Céreus spléndidus (see p. 237.) : 
of Peréskia Bleo, of several gloxinias, of R2bes speciosum, three fine plants of 
Rhododéndren Russellianwm just going out of flower, Zimulus Smithii flow- 
ering; Primula cortusoides, a group of; a stock of plants of Lobelia specidsa, 
purpurea, falgens, spléndens, cardinalis, and of a scarlet-flowered new variety, 
in the way of cardinalis, but with its inflorescence much branched. We shall 
add, because they interest us, Symplocarpus foe’tidus, Statice Arméria white 
corollaed, and the hardy trolliuses; the last, in the shaded low-lying soil of 


and Suburban Gardens. 283 


this nursery, are more vigorous and beautiful than persons accustomed to see 
them just living and flowering in dry sunny borders can well conceive.—J. D. 

Drayton Green. — May 4. Since our last visit (IX. 517.), Mrs. Lawrence 
has considerably extended her flower-garden, erected a very handsome green- 
house, a house for forcing plants, a large mass of rockwork, with rustic arches, 
a basin and fountain, and introduced a number of statues and other sculp- 
tural or architectural objects. The place is now such a gem of picturesque 
beauty and botanical riches as is not elsewhere to be found in the neighbour- 
hood of London. The plants are most admirably grown, and it is only domg 
justice to Mrs. Lawrence and her gardener, Mr. Cornelius, to state that the 
order and keeping of the whole are such as to put it entirely out of our power 
to find fault. 

Among the plants in flower, in the open garden, were some of the most 
splendid bushes of double-blossomed furze we have ever seen, a large tree 
pzony covered with bloom, and a splendid hybrid rhododendron, which was 
afterwards exhibited at the Horticultural Exhibition, May 10. Among the 
herbaceous plants was a fine collection of heartseases. In the green-house 
there were, a select collection of beautiful heaths finely in bloom, all the newest 
and most rare New Holland shrubs, and all the finest pelargoniums. 

Greenhithe. — May 5. The villa of Mr. Foster is formed on a surface com- 
posed of old chalk-pits, heaps of chalk rubbish that have been accumulating 
for centuries, and chalk cliffs; and it is remarkable for the great variety and 
romantic character of the scenery which it contains in so small a space. The 
walks display a perpetual change of scene; they are chiefly of turf, but some 
of them near the house are gravelled. One walk, along a ridge, affords a 
remarkably fine specimen of what may be called the elegant picturesque. It 
is an irregular continuous glade of the smoothest turf, losing itself, on each 
side, under the branches of the beautiful trees and shrubs. The outline, thus 
formed, is as full of variety and beauty as can well be imagined. The breadth 
of this glade or walk is sometimes only 10 ft. or 12 ft., and sometimes 50 ft. or 
100 ft. There are two retired glens of smooth turf, completely shut out from 
the world by high banks, covered with trees and shrubs; not in dense mono- 
tonous masses, but sufficiently thin and scattered to allow the plants to display 
something of feature and character. On these banks there are some fine old 
thorns, profusely covered with bloom. In short, there is an appearance of 
nature, and, at the same time, of elegance, pervading all the plantations here, 
from their thinness, irregularity, and the uneven surface on which they are 
placed, which never can be produced by thick equidistant plantations on level 
ground, and neglect of thinning out the trees. Near the house there is a steep 
bank cut into grassy terraces, which have a fine effect; and, on the side of 
another very steep hill there are scattered groups of pines and spruce firs, which 
reminded us of scenery which we have seen in Sweden. The whole of this 
place was in perfect order and keeping; and it gave us no small pleasure to 
find that Mr. Foster agreed with us in preferring a garden of ten yards square, 
kept in the most perfect order and richness that a garden is susceptible of, to 
one of a hundred acres, kept as gentlemen’s grounds commonly are kept. We 
saw here a purple Brompton stock, between three and four years old, and 
several feet high. It was magnificently covered with bloom; and had been in 
much the same state, Mr. Foster informed us, for the last two years. 

The Cottage Villa of Mr. Wilson, Surgeon, though not nearly so extensive as 
that of Mr. Foster, is yet formed on the same description of surface, full of 
variety, and kept in the highest order and neatness. It also contains some 
good plants, especially natives, Miss Wilson being a good practical botanist. 
We saw a remarkably fine plant of Lithospérmum purpureo-certleum, of 
which rare species there is a habitat in this neighbourhood. A summer-house 
on the summit of a hill in this garden is embosomed in fruit trees, so as to 
exclude all the scenery immediately around it; and to direct the eye far into 
the county of Essex, several miles up the Thames, and down that river nearly 
to the Nore. — Cond. 

u 4 


284 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


Art. V. Floricultural and Botanical Notices of new Plants, and of 
old Plants of Interest, supplementary to the latest Editions of the 
“ Encyclopedia of Plants,” and of the “ Hortus Britannicus.” 


Curtis’s Botanical Magazine; each monthly Number containing eight plates; 
3s. 6d. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Hooker, King’s Professor of 
Botany in the University of Glasgow. 

Edwards’s Botanical Register; each monthly Number containing eight plates ; 
4s, coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Lindley, F.R.S., Professor of Botany 
in the London University. 

Sweet's British Flower-Garden; each monthly Number containing four plates ; 
3s. coloured, 2s. 3d. plain. Edited by David Don, Esq., Librarian to the 
Linnean Society. 


DicotTyLeDoNous PoLyPETALOUS PLANTS. 


Ill. Ranunculdcee § spurie. 


1596, PHO‘NTIA. (By some, from Pon, a noted physician of antiquity; by others, and with 
much more probability, from P@onéa, a mountainous country ef Macedonia, where some of the 
species grow wild. — D. Don.) 

14094 Moutan H. K. ‘‘ The M. papaveracea appears to be really the normal form of the species, as the 
late Mr. George Anderson suggested.’’ (D. Don.) [Sw. fl.gar,2.s.238 
var, variegata D.Don particoloured-petaled % sp 1} ap.jn W.P Eng. hybrid? .. Lp. 


A low-growing bushy kind, branching from the ground, and scarcely woody. 
Flowers about 6 in. across. Petals white, stained with a deep rose colour im 
various parts; the base marked with numerous radiating streaks of violet and 
purple. Anthers yellow. The Earl of Mountnorris, whose successful culture 
of the tree peony has been rewarded by the production of several splendid 
varieties, far excelling any of these imported from China, has been so fortunate 
as to raise the present fine variety also, which is remarkable for its dwarf and 
almost herbaceous habit. It has been raised from seeds of the P. MZ. papa- 
veracea, which His Lordship supposes had been accidentally fertilised by some 
of the herbaceous species. 

All the varieties raised at Arley [we suppose, those whose names are registered in Hort. Brit. 

p. 482. ] were from papaveracea, and not from Banksiz, as the gardener had inadvertently stated. 
The tree pxonies ate propagated by layers, which should be twisted a little; and the soil best 
, adapted for them is a mixture of vegetable earth and fresh meadow loam. (Lhe British Flower- 
Garden, May.) 
LVI. Myrtdcee } Chamelaucive. 


1495. CA’LYTHRIX Lab. (Kalyx, a calyx, and ¢hrix, a hair; the remarkable hairlike terminations 
of the calyx. Not from kalyz, and trixos, triple, as some explain it: misled, perhaps, by Labil- 
larditre, the destriber of the genus, having spelled the word Calytrix. — Bot. Mag., May, 1834.) 
12.1. Sp. 12.— [C s.1 _ Bot. reg. 409 

$12833 glabra R. Br. glabrous-lfd. and bracted #\_) or 4 ap.jn W_ Australiaand V.D.IL 1818. 
712834 virgata Cun. twiggy-branched %\_) or 2 ap.au? W N.S.W. 1823. Csp_ Bot. mag. 3323 
Synonyme: C. ericdides Cun. in Field’s New South Wales, p. 350. The specific name unsuited, 

being applicable to all the species of the genus. (Cun. in Bot. Mag. 3323.) 5 


C. virgata is very closely allied to C. glabra, in having its leaves consider« 
-ably less erowded on the branches, which are altogether smoother, more 
slender and twiggy, and much more productive of flowers at the extremities. 
It is, moreover, a freer-flowering shrub; and, as it continues in that condition 
longer than C. glabra, and is readily increased by cuttings, it has much to 
recommend itself to British cultivators. The species is in the Kew collection. 


12835 scabra Dec. rough=/fd. and bracted #% \_Jor 4 ap.jn W _ Australia 1894. C pl 
Mr. Allan Cunningham has, in the Bot. Mag. for May, t. 3323., supplied a synopsis of all the 
known species of this erica-like habited genus; and sketched their distinctive characters, and 
adduced their habitats and synonymes. The names of the recognised species are these : —With 
the leaves stipuled: glabra 2. Br., virgata Cun., curtoph¥lla Cun., tetraptera Dec., decandra 
Dec., Fraseri Cun., flavéscens Cun., strigdsa Cun., brunédides Cun., scabta Dec. With the leaves 
not stipuled: conférta Cun., microphylla Cun., to which the exstipulata Dec. is synonymous. Mr. 
Cunningham has stated that ‘‘ three species of this genus are now in cultivation in the English 
gardens.”” These we have given above, with tabular details; and, as we Cannot find any trace of 
the C. floribanda and C. pubéscens given in Hort. Brié,, it seems advisable to cancel the 
account of the genus therein given, and to substitute the present one. 


LXXVII. Leguminise. 


1980. ADE/SMIA. 
viscosa Gill § Hook. clammy-herbaged # Jor 12my.o Y.Taw Chile 1832. Clt.1 Sw.fl.gar.2.s.230 


w 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 285° 


For details on this, see in p. 173. There, and in the British Flower-Garden, it is stated to have 
been raised by Messrs. Allen and Rogers; but, in the British Flower-Garden for May, t. 240., 
this statement is declared erroneous, and corrected to Mr. Knight, Exotic Nursery, Chelsea; 
who, it is stated, raised it from seeds collected in Chile by Mr. Cuming. We have, since March, 
seen the plant at Mr. Knight’s; and have corrected, above, the tabular details respecting it. A. 
viscdsa is trained to a western-aspected wall of a building, is 10 ft. high, and was showing some 
flowers on May 1. 

Lupinus leptophyllus Benth. (of which we have, in p. 173., quoted a notice frotn Hort. Trans.) is 
figured in the Bot. Reg. for May, t. 1670. 


2144. KENNE‘DYA. § Longicarine. 
19379a $ J) or 3? fjn D.P N. Holl. 18322 Cs.p Hort. Journal, May, 1833 


In p. 244., it is stated that “ a species of Kennédya, a native of New Hol- 
land, from Boyd Miller, Esq.,” was exhibited at the London Horticultural 
Society’s Show, on April 1. Mr. Miller resides at Lower Tooting, near 
London. Of this plant, a figure is given in the Horticultural Journal and 
Florist’s Register for May, vol. ii.; and, in pp. 78. and 80. of the same number, 
the following additional facts appertaining to it are stated : — “ The plant is 
an elegant though not a showy twiner. It has flowers so closely approxi- 
mating to black as to be pronounced the darkest known. Towards the 
bottom of the plant there are single leaves; but Mr. Wakeling’s figure gives 
a very accurate idea, not only of the blossoms, but also of the character and 
habit of the plant.” According to this figure, the plant, in its habit of 
growth, resembles Kennédya rubicinda, and seems to do so in its (trifoliolate) 
leaves; the leaflets are shown shorter, and more broadly ovate. The flowers 
are disposed from six to ten together, in stalked clusters; and are very unlike 
those of K. rubicunda, which are usually produced but three in a cluster. 
Mr. Miller is stated to be the sole possessor of this kind. We think it likely 
that Dr. Lindley will name, describe, and figure it in the Botanical Register ; 
so leave the plant here, without a specific name, in that prospect. 

LXXXVIII. Euphorbiacez. 


1460. EHUPHO’RBIA. 
$12300 atropurpirea W. dark purple-bracted # _Jor4mr D.P Teneriffe 1815. Cs.p Bot. mag. 3321 
“* Discovered by M. Broussonet;” but Dr. Hooker does not represent that it has been also 
described by M. Broussonet. 


“Ys well deserving a place in every green-house, from the deep blood 
colour of its bracteas and floral leaves, which present a strong contrast to the 
pale glaucous hue of the foliage.””. The figure has been derived from a plant 
in the Glasgow Botanic Garden. (Bot. Mag., May.) Messrs. Young and Penny 
of the Milford Nursery also possess (see p. 236.) this species. 

CXVI. Rutacee. 


1189. CYMINO’SMA. 2 
11084a oblongifdlia Hook. oblong-lfd. 2% _J)or 6? su.aut W N.S.W. 1824 Clt1 Bot. mag. 3322 
Géla oblongifolia Cun. 1832, Loudon’s Hort. Brit. Add. Supp. No, 28887. 
Cymindsma oblongifdlia Cun. MSS. in Bot. mag. May, 1834. ‘“‘ Closely allied to C. pedunculata 
Dec.; which is the same as the Géla lanceolata Low., according to Mr. Brown, and, consequently, 
as Ximén?a ? lanceolata Dec.; especially to that variety figured by Loddiges (Bot. Cab. 938.), 
with short peduncles.” (D7. Hooker.) 


A glabrous shrub with oblong obtuse leaves. Flowers whitecorollaed; and 
borne in axillary corymbs. C. oblongifolia is in the Kew collection, where 
** it is treated as a hardy green-house plant, and flowers in the summer and 
autumn.” (Bot. Mag., May.) 

CXXII. a: Limndnthee R. Br. 

LIMNA/NTHES R. Br. (Limné, a lake, anthos, flower ; supposed native habitat of 

L. Douglasz R. Br.) 10. 1. Sp. 1. 

Douglaséi R. Br: Douglas’s © fra laut Y.W California 1833. S ms Bot. reg. 1673 

Leaves alternate, trifoliate, or pinnate. Flowers slightly, but most agree- 
ably, fragrant. Corolla broadly campanulate, three quarters of an inch across, 
of five petals, which are of a delicate yellow colour, bordered with white. 
(Bot. Reg., May.) For additional particulars, see p. 174. 

CXXXV. Bixinez: 


1568a. AZA*RA R. & P. (Joseph Nicholas Axara, a Spanish promoter of science, and of botany 
} in particular.) 13. 1. Sp. 3— 
integrifdlia R. § P. entire-Ifd. # |_| fra18... Y? W? Conception 1832. Cl.p Fi. per. 5. 466 


Mr. Knight, of the Exotic Nursery, Chelsea, has raised plants of this species 
from seeds obtained of Mr. Cuming: it is not registered in British books as 


286 — Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


being previously extant alive in Britain. Mr. G. Don, in his Miller’s Botanist’s 
and Gardeners Dictionary, i. 297., states that it is “ native in groves at Con- 
ception, in Chili,’ and that it flowers in “ July and August :” in its native 
abodes, we presume. We are indebted to Mr. A. Scott for this early notice 
of a species additional to our catalogues. 

CXLIV. Portulécee. Portulaca Gilliésii Hook., figured in the Bot. Mag. for 
April, 1831, whose beauty we noted in VII. 338., is figured, also, in the 
Bot. Reg. for May, 1834, t. 1762., where these remarks, with cthers, respect- 
ing it occur: —“ It is truly a splendid plant; but, to be seen in perfection, it 
should be exposed to the greatest heat and the brightest light that our sum- 
mers will supply. It then opens its large rich crimson flowers in considerable 
quantity, and lying, as they do, upon a little bed of neat deep green leaves, 
the prettiest effect imaginable is produced. It is a perennial, and is propa- 
gated readily by cuttings. To preserve it during winter, place it in a well- 
ventilated dry green-house or stove, and allow it water only when in a growing 
state, and then only in moderate quantity.” 


DicotyLeponous MoNnoreTatous PLAnts. 
CLXX. Ervicee vere. 
1345. A/RBUTUS. [1826. Lp. Bot. mag. 3320 


11079 tomentdsa Ph. hairy-branched and petioled *\_\? or 4? a W_ California to Puget’s Sound 
2 ntda Hook. &§ Arnott glabrous-branched Hook. in Fl. Bor. Am. vol. ii. t. 129. fig. 4. 


A. tomentosa flowered in Dec. 1833 in the green-house of the Glasgow 
Botanic Garden, into which garden it had been received from that of the 
London Horticultural Society, by whom it had been introduced through Mr. 
Douglas, who had neticed it as growing in rocky places, and extending from 
California in the south, to Puget’s Sound in the north. Mr. Menzies has also 
gathered it near the mouth of the Columbia. “ The var. 2. seems to be the 
more southern state of the species.” A. tomentosa “ is well worthy a place 
in every collection, bearing copious evergreen foliage, and flowers of a 
snowy whiteness, well contrasted with the green of the leaves.” (Bot. Mag., 
May.) 


1341la. PERNE/TTI4 Gaudichaud. (Dom Pernetty, the author of the account of a voyage to the 
Falkland Isles ; a work remarkable for its interest, as well as for its candour and exactness. 
The original species of the genus was mentioned, by this traveller, under the name of ** Bruyére 
‘a feuilies pointues.””) 10. 1. Sp. 4,—' 
Generic relations: Gaudichaud has referred to this genus 4’rbutus mucronata L.. fil. [Hort. Brit. 
No. 28626.], pdmila[ Hort. Brit. No. 11080.], and microphylla. ‘‘ In both [the genera] A’rbutus 
and Arctostaphylos the anthers have two long horns projecting from their back, and the ovary is 
surrounded by a fleshy ring with ten angles; but, in the Pernéttia mucronata [and all the per- 
nettias], the antivers have no horns, and are split into four bristle-shaped teeth at their apex, 
while the base of the ovary is surrounded by ten distinct scales. The genus Pernéttia is, in 
reality, much more nearly allied to André6meda and Gaulthiérza than to A’rbutus, particularly 
to Andrémeda Myrsinites and Gaulthiéréa serpyllifolia ; which last is certainly no Vaccinium. 
As far as habit and the structure of the flowers are concerned, A’rbutus pildsa Graham [Bot. 
Mag. 3177., Gard. Mag. 8.] would also be referable to Pernéttia ; but we incline to believe that 
plant an Andrémeda.” (Dr. Lindley.) [Bot. reg. 1675 
+28626 mucronata Gaudichaud  pointed-ifd. %, _|or6?my.jl W_  Str.of Magellan 1828. Lp 
A’rbutus mucronata L..fil., Graham in Bot. Mag. 3093. [Hort. Brit. No. 23626. ] 


Communicated by W. Harrison, Esq., in whose garden at Cheshunt, culti- 
vated in peat, it has, within three years, formed a bush 33 ft. in diameter, and 
24 ft. high. It is a hardy (through such winters as the recent ones) evergreen 
shrub, of considerable beauty, on account of the neat appearance and dark 
colour of its foliage; its flowers are pretty, but they aré small, and are produced 
in an axillary manner, not in bunches, and are therefore not conspicuous. 
(Bot. Reg., May.) 


411080 pumila Gaudichaud dwarf #) Jor4.., WwW Magellan 1820. Ls.p 
A’rbutus pumila Forst., Hort. Brit. No. 11080. 
M. Gaudichaud, in his visit to the Falkland Islands, found plenty of another species (Pernéttia 
empetrifdlia), which formed a small bush covered with eatable berries, and growing at the back 
of the sandhills wherever a little vegetable mould had been collected. (Bot. Reg., May.) 


CLXXI. Epacridee. 


4513. TROCHOCA/RPA R. Br. (Trdchos, a wheel, karpos, fruit ; cells of the fruit rayedly arranged, 
like the spokes of a wheel.) 5.1. Sp. 1. 
44315 fatrina R. Br. Cénnamon laurel-[fd. @ __|or25ap.au W N. Holl. 1823. Cs.p Bot. mag. 3324 


In its native country, a tree of regular growth, and 25 ft. high. In the 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 287 


green-house at Kew “an extremely pretty evergreen shrub, having very glossy 

leaves, with parallel nerves resembling those of many of the laurel tribe, and, 

like those of the Cinnamomum vérum, of a delicate red colour when young. 

Flowers in terminal spikes, small, corolla white.’ (Bot. Mag., May.) 
CXCVI. Apocynee. 


582, ALY’XIA. 
4374a ruscifolia 2. Br., with the details as in Gard. Mag., X. 238. 

Synonyme: A. Richardsonz Swt. in Loudon’s Hort. Brit. No. 4373. 

2 pugioniférmis Cun. dagger-Zfd. %\_| fra? s WwW Moreton Bay 1830. C p.l 

Synonymes: Gynopdgon pugioniformis Cun. MSS. in 1828; Alyxia pugionifoérmis Cun., Loudon’s 
Hort. Brit. No. 28595.; A. vuscifdlia var. pugioniférmis Cun. in Bot. Mag. May, 1834. 

The enumeration of the known species of Alyxia, given in p. 238., was copied from the Bot. Mag. 
for April, 1834. This enumeration is cancelled in the number for May, and the following 
more correct one substituted : — A. actinophylla Cun., spicata i. Br., tetragona &. Br., stellata 
R. &. S., obtusifolia R. Br., latrina Gaudichaud, oliveformis Gauwd., Torrestana Gaud., Gyno- 
pogon #. & S., daphnéides Cun., ruscifdlia #. Br., scandens A. & S., buxifolia R. Br. These 
species are enumerated by Mr. Allan Cunningham, who has given, in the Bot. Mag., their dia- 
gnostics, habitats, and synonymes. Dr. Hooker has added, that “‘ there are, besides, A. odorata 
Wall., calophylla Wall., lucida Wail., in Dr. Wallich’s list of plants of the Honourable the East 
India Company’s museum.”’ 


CCXL. Scrophularinee. 


MI’/MULUS Smithz Paxton (see p. 239.) is figured in the Botanical Register for May, t. 1674. ; 
where it is quoted, from Mr. George Smith, nurseryman, Islington, that he had raised it from 
seeds of M. variegatus fertilised with the pollen of M. luteus rivularis. ‘ It is a hardy plant, 
with all the habit of M. luteus rivularis.”” From Paxton’s Magazine of Botany for May, we 
learn that 

“ Mr. George Smith, Islington Nursery, London, has farther improved this 
beautiful family ; kinds of which he possesses exceeding in beauty the 1. 
Smithz, bemg not only marked with distinct spots on each petal, but regularly 
laced round the extremity; the lower lip having three dark marks, and the 
yellow considerably deeper.” 

CCXL. Scrophularince. § Buchnéreze D. Don. 

1782a. NYCTERI/’NIA D. Don. (Nycterinos, nocturnal ; the flowers of all the species [known 
up to May, 1834] expanding at night.) 14. 2. Sp. 4.— 

The genus is a very natural one; and is essentially distinguished from Zrinus and Bachnera by the 
structure of the anthers and stigma, and by the insertion of the filaments. It will contain, besides 
Erinus Lychnidea Thun., fragrans, tristis, and africanus of Linneus, all natives of the Cape, and 
agreeing remarkably both in habit and structure. (D. Don.) 

415891 Lychnidea D. Don Lychnis-corodlaed #.\_)\ fra Zap.jn W.P C.G.H....C sp. Sw.fl.gar.2.s.239 

Erinus Lychnidea Thun., Hort. Brit. No. 15891., Bot. Reg. 748. 

415890 fragrans D. Don evening-scented w __}frai my.jn W.P? C.G.H. 1776. Cs. Bur, af. 49, 4 

Erinus fragrans H. K., Hort. Brit. No. 15890. 

15892 tristis D. Don dark-corollaed ‘.\_|pr1my.jn P C.G.H. 1825. Csl 

Erinus tristis Thun., Hort. Brit. No. 15892. 

Nycterinia Lychnidea D. Don is a plant of well-known interest for its grace- 
ful flowers, and their fragrance in the evening or in cloudy weather. This 
(and probably all the) species forms a very pretty border plant during the 
summer and autumnal months. A store of plants, obtained from cuttings or 
from seeds, should be provided in the green-house to this end. (The Brit. 
Flow.-Garden, May.) 

CCXIII. Solanee. 

489, PETUNIA. 
+29217 intermédia D. Don intermediate y AJ or lau.o P.Y Parana 1832. S1t Sw.fl.gar.2s.237 

Salpigléssis linearis Hook. incidentally in the text of Bot. Mag. t. 3113.; statedly and with a figure 
in Bot. Mag. t. 3256., Gard. Mag. 1X. 621.; Nierembérgia intermédia Graham in Edin. Ph. J, 
1833; Nierembérgia, section Petunia, species intermédia D. Don in Sw. Fl, Gar. 2. s. May, 1834, 
t. 237. 

Mr. Neill, of Canonmiils, near Edinburgh, has raised a plant of this species 
from seeds transmitted by Mr. Tweedie, who discovered it in sandy plains near 
the banks of the Parana. “ As the plant is found to produce seeds much 
more freely than the other species, and to be of ready increase by cuttings, 
we hope soon to see it a common ornament of the flower border, to which its 
graceful habits, and successive profusion of blossoms of the deepest purple, 
shaded partly with brown [and centred with yellow], and of a rich velvety 
hue, cannot fail to render it a most welcome addition. It appears to be quite 
as hardy as the [Petunia] pheenicea.” (The Brit. Flow.-Garden, May.) 

Petinia pheenicea proves itself to be, like P. nyctaginiflora, a persistent shrub, in a mild winter 
and sheltered warm aspect. The plant of which I have spoken in IX. 562. has remained 


untrimmed in the state in which it ceased flowering last autumn; and now (May 3.) exhibits 
young shoots, protruded from the last year’s branches in various points. 


288 Floricultural and Botanical Notices. 


CCXXI. Labidte. 


76. SA’LVIA. [Floricult. cab. fig. unpub. 

29219a dolichostachya Zag. __ long-spiked-inflor. #¢_Jor 6 au.o iS) Mexico 1820? C Lt 

At first sight, it has the appearance of S. filgens Cav. ; but it differs from that in most of the 

following particulars : — It is twice as high .while the scarlet corollas are only one third the size; 

and are smooth, except the upper lip, which is somewhat shaggy ; the middle segment of the 

lower lip kidney-shaped, a great deal larger than the two lateral ones; the leaves emarginate, 

very rugose on the upper surface, and broader, the sinus at the base deeper; the two upper- 

most sessile; the spikes longer, of from 7 to 20 whorls, each composed of about 12 stalked 
flowers ; the upper lip of the calyx ovate, acute, with a very short incurved point. 

Mr. B. Saunders, florist, Jersey, and others in Jersey, possess plants of this 
species; some of which “ were not,” in the climate of that island (well known 
to be always mild), “ at all affected by the frosts of last winter.’ Mr. Saun- 
ders received the plant some years ago from England, under the name of 
“ S4lvia coccinea of Linn.;” but Professor Lagasca, now residing in Jersey, 
has identified it with the species which he, 29 or 30 years ago, denominated, in 
his Elenchus, S. dolichostachya. Lagasca, while director of the royal gardens 
of Madrid, first received seeds of it, about 1802, from Mexico, from his friends 
Sesse, Mocino, and Cervantes. From the Madrid gardens Lagasca distributed 
it to other gardens in Europe. It is stated to be a beautiful species, which, 
in Jersey, “ grows from 5ft. to 7 ft. high, and is a handsome bushy plant.” 
(The Floricultural Cabinet, May, 101, 102.) 


MonocoryLeponous PLANTS. 


CCXL. Orchidee. 


2542. C0ZLO/GYNE. [Bot. mag. 3318 
flaccida Lindl. drooping-racemed €Wjel1lf W.Y Noakotein Nepal 1829. D p.r.w 
Twenty-one species of Ccelogyne are known, all natives of the East Indies, 

but of which very few have yet been received alive into European gardens. 
C. flaccida is figured from Wentworth Gardens, to which it had been given 
by the Hon. and Rev. W. Herbert, who had received it from Dr. Wallich. It 
is an elegant species, with (in the specimen figured) a pendulous raceme of 
8in. or 10 in. long, and eight moderately large inodorous white flowers. (Bot. 
Mag., May.) 

9558. BLE‘TIA. 

22753a Shephérdz Hook. Messrs. Shepherd’s y (A) or 2ja.m Dp.P Jamaica 1825? Dp.l Bot. mag. 3319 
“© Our plant has been cultivated, by the Messrs. Shepherd [botanic garden, Liverpool], under the 

name of Limoddrum tuberdsum; from an idea, perhaps, that it was the L. altum vel tuberdsum 
of Jacquin. But that plant, 1 have endeavoured to prove, is the same with our Bleétza acuti- 
pétala Bot. Mag. t. 3217.; and the name tuberdsum being equally applicable to other species 
of the genus, I am anxious that it should bear the name of the Messrs. Shepherd (uncle and 
nephew), who have cultivated the orchideous as well as other plants with so much success ; and 
who have paid particular attention to the species of the present genus.’? (Dr. Hooker.) 

The B. Shephérd? Hook. is nearest akin to B. verectnda. The leaves are 
14 ft. long, the scape 2 ft. or 3 ft. high. Flowers, both within and without, 
of a deep purple colour, except the column, which is pale, and the lamelle of 
the disk of the lip, which are of a dirty yellow. Plants of B. Shephérd: are 
in the collection at Wentworth Gardens (whence the specimen figured had 
been derived), and in that of the Liverpool Botanic Garden. (Bot. Mag., 
May.) 

CCXL. Orchidee. § Malaxidee. 

2576. LVPARIS. ; 

202804a guineénsis Lind?: Guinea Yy (AJcu3s G_ Sierra Leone 1832. Os.p.1 Bot. reg. 1671 
Is nearly related to the British L. Losélz. Mr. Whitfield brought plants of 

it in 1832 from Sierra Leone. The plant figured, flowered in September, 
1833, in the London Horticultural Society’s Garden. lL. guineénsis “ re- 
quires to be kept in a damp stove while growing, but to be removed into a 
cooler and dry place as soon as its leaves decay.” (Bot. Reg., May.) 

CCLI. Lilidcee. 

CALOCHO’RTUS. We have, in p. 178., quoted notices on the species of this genus. 

C. spléndens is figured in the Bot. Reg. for May, t. 1676.; and C. ventstus in the same number, 
t. 1669. We perceive that, in p. 178., we have omitted the height of C. venistus: this may be 
stated as 13 ft. In Bot. Reg. 1676., it is stated that C. nitidus has not yet been introduced into 
Britain; and that “ all [the species] are natives of California.” The native country assigned, 


in Hort. Brif., to C. macrocarpus and nitidus should be corrected accordingly ; and C. nitidus , 
expunged from the work until it shall have been introduced. 


a 


Retrospective Criticism. 289 


Art. VI. Retrospective Criticism. 


CoRRECTIONS. — In p. 122. line 8. for “ Mr. Rule,’ read “ Mr. Rowell” 
(principal gardener to the Earl of Durham). In p. 197. line 6. for “ James 
the First of Scotland,” read “ James the Sixth of Scotland.” 

Botanie and other Gardens at Oxford. —n reading the very interesting 
account of your visit to Oxford (104—114.), I observed one or two trifling 
mistakes; which, as I know you will not be offended at it, I shall take the 
liberty of pointing out to you. In p.105., should it not have been Dr. Pococke, 
instead of Cardinal Wolsey? I think it is generally believed at Christ Church 
that the oldest fig tree in that college (which is now growing in the garden of 
the Rev. Mr. Pusey, canon of Christ Church, and Regius Professor of He- 
brew) was planted there by Dr. Pococke in the year 1648. In p. 107. and 
108., in two or three places, for “ Tegg” read “ Tagg.’ In p. 109. you in- 
form us, on Mr. Humphry’s authority, that he was the first who proposed the 
establishment of a garden library for the use of the Oxford gardeners. This 
is certainly a mistake, for the society originated with myself; and its meetings 
were held at my house, every Wednesday evening, for nearly two years after 
its first establishment. Dr. Daubeny, Regius Professor of Botany and Che- 
mistry, is president. See our First Report [noticed in Cat. Brit. p. 271.]. 
Page 111. for “ Gerarde” read “ Sherard.” I published only two numbers 
of my work on mosses, instead of three, as stated in p. 113. 

You wiil, I am sure, be glad to hear that the Professor of Botany is build- 
ing me a new room (14 ft. square) for my collection of books, &c., on the site 
of the old one, which is pulled down. Among other alterations that are going 
on here, the old yew hedges which you speak of are taken down, and their 
place will be occupied by a border of ornamental shrubs and herbaceous 
plants. A new hot-house is commenced, and will soon be finished. — William 
Baxter. Botanic Garden, Oxford, April 28. 1834. 

Corrections and Suggestions for the Improvement of the new Edition of the 
Encyclopedia of Gardening. — Directions for forcing flowers in winter and 
early spring, as practised in some of the London nurseries, would, to many 
gardeners, be one of the most useful parts of the book; and if a section were 
devoted to that subject, in my opinion it would be far preferable to the mode 
adopted in the former editions of the Encyclopedia. Many plants, also, are 
usually forced, of which no mention is made in the former editions: such are 
the azalea, lilac, pink, &c. A list of the species and varieties best adapted 
for forcing, distinguishing such as are scented, might be added with advantage. 

Few things are of greater importance to a gardener than the knowledge of 
the best way to destroy or check the ravages of his numerous enemies among 
the insect tribes ; more especially of that “ prince of mischief,” the red spider. 
The rapidity with which this insect mcreases is amazing; and were it not that 
the age of credulity is passed away, I should almost be tempted to believe in the 
agency of Dr. Plott’s materia pinguis, so very unaccountable is the manner in 
which they are produced. I have now under my charge a hot-house which 
has lately been painted, the walls whitewashed, and the outer bark of the 
vines on the rafters carefully peeled off, and the inner bark washed with a 
lather of soft soap; yet, before the grapes were fairly set, hundreds of red 
spiders were preying upon the leaves; and although the plants are daily well 
syringed, the insects continue to increase. In the last edition of the Encyclo- 
pedia, water is mentioned as a “ well-known preventive and remedy;” but 
having found that ineffectual, I beg to ask if nothing better is known? What 
are the results of the trials of a preparation mentioned in a Number of this 
Magazine as being (if 1 mistake not) then under the test of experiment, by 
Mr. Mills and others? [See IX, 697.] My brother gardeners will join me in 
the opinion, that the man who succeeds in discovering a practicable method 
of exterminating this formidable pest will have a claim upon public gratitude 
stronger than the most renowned warrior, in the proportion that a destroyer 
of insects is a more estimable character than a destroyer of men. Iam now 


290 Retrospective Criticism. 


trying to destroy the white scale on my pine plants: if you think the result 
worth having, I will communicate it at some future time.—J. B.W. [We 
shall be most happy to receive it; and we invite this correspondent, and 
others, to supply us with information on all the subjects above referred to.] 

The Churchyard at Hedsor.— Your Magazine for December, 1833, was a 
few days since put into my hand, and I immediately forwarded it to Lord 
Boston, to give His Lordship an oppertunity of reading your remarks on his 
villa at Hedsor [IX. 646.]._ His Lordship was more amused than annoyed by 
the account you have given of his house and grounds; but your observations 
on the state of the churchyard appeared to him, as well as to myself, to 
require some notice. You describe the mode of laying down the gravestones, 
and the smooth and level appearance of the surface, as indicating “ the exer- 
cise of an undue influence over the poor.” In reply to this, I beg to state 
that the present mode of laying down the gravestones was adopted, with the 
general consent of the parishioners, many years since, by the late Lord Boston ; 
a nobleman whose extensive benevolence and kind attentions to the wants 
and distresses of his poor neighbours exempt him, in the minds of all who 
had the happiness of knowing him, from the slightest charge of exercising any 
undue influence over them. Among the small population of the parish of 
Hedsor, there are not more than three families who could afford the expense 
of erecting any “ frail memorial” over the graves of their deceased relatives ; 
and, from the light nature of the soil of which the churchyard is composed, 
all traces of a common grave would in a very short period moulder away: 
whereas, under the system adopted by Lord Boston, every individual has a 
flat stone placed over his grave with his initials engraved on it; and a memo- 
randum of the exact spot, with other particulars, is entered in a register kept 
for the especial purpose; the whole expense falling on Lord Boston. The 
neatness, and the absence of every thing unsightly in the appearance of the 
churchyard, must, and does, gratify every one who sees it; and many of my 
clerical friends who have visited Hedsor churchyard have expressed an earnest 
wish that their own churchyards could be regulated in the same way. — 
Wilkam M. Bradford. Rector of Hedsor, Beaconsfield, April 29. 1834. 

Larch Bark for Tanning. — Mr. Lawrence, among some very sensible re- 
marks on the subject of planting (p. 29-), imtimates that larch bark is of suffi- 
cient value for the purpose of tanning, to “ pay for stripping.” Perhaps he 
would have the goodness to state, through your Magazine, whether the tanners 
in his neighbourhood are willing to purchase the bark of larch, and at what 
price per ton? A few years ago I had occasion to thin out some young 
larches of about the thickness of a man’s thigh; and having heard that the 
bark of this tree was, for its tanning properties, perhaps next in value to that 
of the oak, I was anxious, if possible, to introduce it to general use. With 
this view, I applied to a tanner, with whom I had been in the regular habit of 
dealing for a number of years; but, bearing in mind the extreme reluctance 
with which men adopt any new system out of the usual routine of their prac- 
tice *, I proposed, for experiment’s sake, that he should have the bark for 


* As an instance in point, I may mention, that, before the cultivation of 
field turnips was general, at least in this part of the country, my grandfather 
(as I have often heard) had no small difficulty in persuading a tenant to adopt 
this kind of husbandry, and try the experiment. At length, however, he suc- 
ceeded ; but only upon this condition: that, provided the farmer sowed his 
field with turnips, he should pay no rent for the land that year, if the crop were 
not found to answer.— W. 7, B. 

“ A little after the middle of the last century, the late Adam Kennedy, 
Esq., of Romano, endeavoured to introduce potatoes and turnips into the 
tenants’ rotation of crops, by offering a deduction of 1/. per acre from the 
rent for every acre under turnips and potatoes ; but a scheme thus proposed 
by the landlord was suspected as tending to his own interest only, and the 
effect of the premium was extremely limited. However, when Mr. M‘Dougal, 


Retrospective Criticism. 991 


nothing, if he would only be at the expense of peeling it, which would be but 
trifling, as the bark in the present instance was derived entirely from the 
trunks of the larches. The larches were accordingly stripped at the tanner’s 
expense; but, when the bark was fit to carry, the tanner, repenting of his bar- 
gain, to my no small disappointment, declined taking it home, and actually 
left it on the ground, though his team was sent to the very spot for a 
quantity of oak bark which he had purchased from the same plantation. I 
like to see every thing made available to some useful purpose; and shall be 
happy to learn more expressly, from Mr. Lawrence, that the tanners in his part 
of the country have been prevailed upon to try the experiment of larch bark 
in tanning, and that they find it answer.— IV. 7’, Bree. Allesley Rectory, 
Feb. 19. 1834. 

Thinning Plantations. — 1 quite agree with Mr. Lawrence, that “ half the 
trees which are planted, whether for ornament or profit, are either disfigured, 
or rendered comparatively valueless, by being origmally planted too near toge- 
ther, or by being allowed to remain too long without thinning.” And as the 
majority of those who plant (however strange that it should be so) do, in fact, 
from one cause or another, most grievously mismanage their plantations after- 
wards, more especially by entirely neglecting the operation of thinning, or by 
performing it injudiciously, the idea, as suggested by Mr. Lawrence, of plant- 
ing on a regular plan, instead of indiscriminately, so that the thinning may be 
accomplished by rule, and almost, as it were, mechanically, is well worth the 
attention of landed proprietors.* Irksome as the task may be to the gene- 
rality, of marking a plantation, I am surprised to find Mr. Lawrence view the 
work in that light. For myself, I scarcely know a more pleasurable occupa- 
tion, especially if the trees are of a man’s own planting. I am in the habit of 
cutting a certain portion of woodland (not modern plantation, but old oak 
coppice) every year. I mark every tree and pole myself; and always look 
forward to the marking day in the spring as a day of pleasure, and one of the 
greatest holidays I have in the year. On these occasions I am accompanied 
by a shrewd intelligent labourer, who has long been accustomed to work in 
the woods, and takes a pride in settmg them up as they ought to be. In a 
case of difficulty, as, for example, where a number of fine straight poles or 
samples occur so thick together that it becomes absolutely necessary to take 
out some, while yet it is painful to condemn any, I often appeal to his judg= 
ment, which, I have reason to think, is invariably good. He is always for 
copious thinning, and complains that we are apt to be too tender-hearted ; 
then he reminds me of his favourite adage, that “ a quick nine-pence is better 
than a slow shilling ;”” and quotes the authority of his old father (alse a wood- 
man in his day) whose maxim was “ cut wood and have wood.’ The great 
and besetting sin of most planters and wood-owners, unquestionably, is neglect 
of thinning; and this being the case, in order to obviate the evil, it may be 
well to recommend the practice of not planting the trees too close together in 
the first instance. But if planters might be trusted to thin their plantations 
in time, and sufficiently, thick planting has its advantages, as it affords better 
shelter, and tends to draw up the young trees, and render them long in the 
but. The misfortune is, that people will not distinguish between the use and 
the abuse of any system or method. Drawing up the young trees is a bene- 
ficial practice (as already hinted), if adopted in moderation, and to a certain 
‘extent; but, when carried to excess, becomes ruinous to the timber, whether 
planted for ornament or for profit. — Id. 


from Roxburghshire, commenced his system on a farm at Linton in 1778, 
farming at his own risk, the system was immediately adopted universally. 
(Stephens on Irrigation and Draining, p. 37.) — Cond. 

* As regards the general improvement of landed property, by personal care 
and superintendence, ornamenting a residence by planting, and, I may add, in 
almost every other respect, the example of the excellent John Evelyn may be 
held up as a model for the imitation of the English country gentleman. 


292 Retrospective Criticism. 


Cheap Planting. —I join heartily with Mr. Lawrence in his reprobation of 
what is misnamed cheap planting, as, for instance, planting by contract. The 
following voluntary confession may, perhaps, throw some light upon this subject. 
A labourer who has worked on the same premises for myself, and my prede- 
cessors, for more than thirty years, and who was, when a very young man, em- 
ployed in setting the trees of an extensive plantation, in a bleak, exposed, hilly 
district, by contract, has several times remarked to me, when I have been 
planting a tree, and have required his assistance in the work, that I was far 
more particular, in spreading out the roots, fillmg in the soil, &c., than he and 
his fellows used to be when they made the plantations on “ We were 
not very nice about it, Sir,’ he would say : “ we just dug a hole, and stuck 
the trees in any how; and, so that they would but stand upright, we did not 
much care whether they lived or died.”— W. 7’. Bree. 

The gross Neglect and erroneous Practice (with few Exceptions) in the Thin- 
ning and Pruning of young Plantations. —To incur the great expense of previous 
preparation of the soil, enclosing and planting, and afterwards to leave 
to chanee or ignorance the rearing of the timber, is a species of folly that 
cannot be too severely animadverted on. From the wheelwright’s shop or 
carpenter’s yard, to the great naval depots of timber, knots and rottenness are 
in every place to be seen, the fruits generally of the woodman’s or forester’s 
mismanagement. — Geo. Burton, late Gardener and Forester to Sr Edw. Kerri 
son, Bart., at Oakley Park, near Eye, Suffolk. April 21. 1834. An excellent 
paper on the above subject, by this correspondent, will appear in an early 
Number. — Cond. 

The Horsechestnut Tree is of an eligible habit for giving to woods, through 
which walks for pleasure are led, and in which boughiness and branchi- 
ness near the earth are desired, this boughiness and branchiness. It is, in 
p. 234., remarked, that the woods in Kensington Gardens are “ thin with ex- 
cessive thickness,” and that they, notwithstanding they “have undergone a 
second weeding in the course of last winter, will bear several more thinnings 
in succeeding years, till the trees have sufficient room to admit of their putting 
out lateral branches, and thus prevent the masses being seen through.”’ This 
remark has reminded me that, shortly previous to the date of it, Mr. Main of 
Chelsea had pointed out to me, in Kensington Gardens, the happy effects of 
here and there a horsechestnut tree (and he regretted that they were not more 
numerous in these and in all woods planted for pleasure), whose pendulous, 
leafy, verdant branches, reaching far downwards to the earth, were disposed. 
with happy interception to the view beyond, and as a pleasing object for the 
eye to dwell on, between “ the upright,” naked “ shafts of the tall elms,” as 
the poet Cowper has said in speaking of the elm, and as those of the elms in 
Kensington Gardens literally are. How lovely a tree (and so easily propa- 
gated and cheaply acquirable) is the horsechestnut! I have never seen 
justice done, in description, to its merits, except’ in the Magazine of Natural 
History, 1V. 238., where Mr. Dovaston has, in a “ description of a beautiful 
tree,” fairly set down all its charms. I was once, some ten years ago, told of 
some nobleman who had a passionate admiration of the horsechestnut tree, 
and had caused the branches of some fine ones in his grounds to reach quite to 
the earth, by first fixing them downward with chains, to promote their natu- 
rally somewhat prone direction. I mentioned this to Mr. Main, who remarked, 
that, to prevent cattle biting off the branches of the horsechestnut to the height 
that they can reach (named the browsing line), as they will the branches of all 
trees, it is well to chain or otherwise fasten the ends of the branches into the 
soil, and lay and keep them there until they have there rooted, and so esta- 
blished themselves firmly enough to resist the cattle’s attempts to browse them 
so as to wholly either consume or dislodge them. The arches, too, thus 
formed, would provide shady, though probably fly-frequented, bowers for cattle. 
I think that Mr. Main, besides suggesting this, said that he had practised 
it.—J. D. 

Mr. Ballard@’s Treatise on showing the Impossibility of increasing the Quantity, 
or improving the Quality, of Timber by pruning. (1X. 687.; X. 74.) —If trees 


Retrospective Criticism. 293 


ought to be left to nature, every thing else ought to be, and the barren heath 
should never have been planted at all. Talk of the natural forests of America, 
indeed! Mr. Ballard can know but little about them. It is well known that, 
in the forests of America, not one tree in ten will pay for felling; and not one 
tree in a hundred will pay for exportation. Indeed, where land is selling at a 
few dollars per acre, one good tree on the acre would pay for the whole; 
whereas, in England, by proper planting and pruning, 300 trees, worth 10/. 
each, may stand on the acre. Although I firmly believe that the proper prun- 
ing of a tree assists the growth of timber, as much as the thinning of fruit, on 
the garden walls or in the vinery, promotes the swelling of those left; let 
us admit, for argument’s sake, that it does no such thing; still, whatever we 
may say, there is some difference, in intrinsic value, between a ton of clean 
timber in one straight log, and a ton of crooked branches or spray. There is 
a difference in the value of the but end of a tree, and the top end of the same 
tree, where it is all covered with branches; the top of each tree is a specimen 
of the unpruned tree, and the but end is a specimen of the well-pruned tree. 
A tree planted singly, or in a hedgerow, will never shed its branches as it 
sheds it leaves; the lower branches can only be killed by the crowding of 
other branches, for example, as takes place when they are under the drop 
and in the shade of other trees; but, by skilful pruning, a fine clean stem may 
be obtained for a single tree, as well as for one in the midst of a wood or 
forest. Look at the plate, or cut, of the beech tree in Woburn Park, given as 
the frontispiece to Pontey’s Practical Forest Pruner, and then say whether 
pruning is necessary or not? I had intended giving you an account of my 
journey into Scotland last summer, but the Weekly Dispatch has monopolised 
my lucubrations, and I have but little time for writing or revising, but I shall 
give you a paragraph out, of my portfolio, as follows: —“ From Langtown to 
Langholm, the appearance of the country was still more beautiful ; whitewashed 
cottages adorning beautiful situations. Here I saw the loftiest trees I had 
ever seen in my life, consisting of larch, spruce, and silver fir: it was, as the 
old shepherd said, ‘ quite a look, to look up to them;’ their tops, indeed, 
were lost among the clouds! Now these trees had never been pruned, and I 
had almost begun to renounce my favourite theory of pruning trees; until we 
arrived at the depot and sawpits, where I saw the boards and planks exactly 
resembling a picture of the ragged pole which we had seen at the Zoological 

41 Garden at Liverpool, for the bear 


to climb up; so I hugged my 
favourite theory still more close- 
ly.” Every knot proceeds direct 


from the centre, like a herring 
bone, only tapering in the reverse way; that is, increasing in size as they get 
near the surface: thus, jig. 41. is a board from an unpruned tree; and jig. 42. 


a board from a well-pruned tree. 

42 % 
peers ees Sia ee he small: knots’ in’ the ‘centre 
A A Oe CO CC CL ECE board are of little or no detriment, 
GRR RASS RS RRR SLSR SASS and the outside boards are incom- 


parably superior. We hear of live 
knots being better than dead knots, but let me have a tree without any knots 
at all; and this can easily be obtained by pruning the trees in proper time, the 
expense of which will not be one tenth part of the expense of cutting the same 
branches off when they are ten times the diameter.—John Howden. Heath 
House, near Cheadle, April 13. 1834. 

Forcing Asparagus. (p. 147.) — The mode of forcing asparagus, without 
removing the plants from the beds in the open garden, must be an advantage 
which, I think, will appear obvious to every one; at least, as far as it respects 
obtaining fine heads. This, I conceive, is a sufficient reason for the forced 
asparagus being finer at Paris than that brought to the London markets; as, 
by the removal of the roots, according to the English method, it is natural to 
suppose that the shoots must be weakened, and, consequently, not so fine as 


Vou. X.— No. 51. x 


294, Queries and Answers. 


if the plants were to remain in the ground, and be forced there. The system, 
I think, cannot be objected to by any one, unless that by its adoption a larger 
quantity of glass would be wanted; which, being so much cheaper on the 
Continent than in England, gives the market-gardeners in the neighbourhood 
of Paris a great advantage over those around our metropolis. Still, I think, 
‘nothing should be left undone towards endeavouring to adopt the French 
system, at least in part. On the supposition that the French mode of forcing 
asparagus need not be strictly adhered to, as it respects filling up the inside 
of the frame with hot dung, I should suggest the adoption of oiled paper or 
oiled calico lights; a considerable number of which could be manufactured at 
a small expense; and, with care, the paper might last two years, and the calico 
much longer. In my younger days, I recollect witnessing yearly, two ranges 
‘of cucumbers grown under oiled paper lights, which in general answered 
remarkably well. 

I wish, however, to know if what they call white asparagus in Paris is a 
variety peculiar to itself; or if its whiteness is the effect only of the peculiar 
mode of growing it? It appears to me that the latter only is the case: and, 
if so, a question will naturally arise, which is the best for the table; the 
asparagus which is thus brought forward in a blanched state; or such as, by a 
different process, would retain more of its natural hue? Iam inclined to 
prefer the latter, as being most likely to secure the end desired, as may be 
seen in my article, p. 146. Nevertheless, Iam open to conviction, if it can 
be proved otherwise. 

In forcing what they call in Paris “ green asparagus,” there is no mention 
made of covering the crowns of the plants with earth, which I suppose is not 
done ; consequently, as soon as the buds begin to push, they are mmediately 
exposed to the light, and also to as much air as it may be thought proper to 
give them. The natural consequence of such a system will, of course, be, to 
produce green shoots; and their being small may be occasioned by the plants 
being removed from the beds, and more particularly, if from old beds in a 
declining state. 

For forcing asparagus in the natural ground, instead of allowing only 2 ft. 
between the beds, as is the French method, I should be inclined to give 23 ft. 
or 3 ft.; by which means the dung would retain its heat longer, and be more 
efficacious, and the alleys, during the years of rest, might be made use of 
for culinary purposes. — 7. Rutger. Shortgrove, near Bishop Stortford, Essex, 
April, 1834. 


Art. VII. Queries and Answers. 


FAILURE of an Ice-house.—{ trust some of the scientific readers of this Ma- 
gazine may be able, from the following account, to give me an explanation of 
the causes that led to the failure of an ice-house which I built ten or twelve 
years ago. It was constructed of large dimensions, in the hope that ice might 
be kept in it from year to year, many winters passing in South Wales when 
none can be obtained, and was built of stone in the usual form, faced with 
brick, with hollow walls and three passages, separated by four doors, It has 
a drain at bottom, through which no air can enter, there being what is com- 
monly called a stink trap. At first there was an opening in the centre of the 
dome, for the convenience of shooting down the ice; but it has been closed, 
lest it should occasion the ice to melt, and one has been made in the passage. 
The ice-house is not under trees, but on the slope of the land, with a wood on 
its western side; its top is on a level with the land. It has been suggested 
that it may be sunk too deep under ground, as the height from the top to the 
bottom is 17 ft.; it being 5 ft. from the passage to the top. The ice has been 
put in for many winters, well broken, and beaten down into a solid mass; but 
when the ice-house is opened, after a lapse of several months, the ice is found 
to have melted; nothing remaining but a small pillar in the middle, and that 
‘too soon vanishes. When the ice-house is empty, and the doors are open, it 


Queries and Answers. 295 


is dry; but when closed, and the ice is in it (for the space of time before it 
melts), a vapour rises, which drops from the roof. I shall feel greatly obliged 
to any of your correspondents who can give me an explanation of the causes 
of this great diseppointment.—D. B. April 20. 1834. 

Our correspondent will find an excellent plan for an ice-house, VII. 650., 
and some remarks on the mode of filling in the ice, &c., in Vol. III. He will 
also find excellent plans for ice-houses, and copious remarks on the subject, 
in our Encyclopedia of Architecture, § 737.— Cond. 

Griffin’s First Lines of Chemistry.— Ephebicus Horticultor, in a late com- 
munication, has recommended to the attention of the young gardener Griffin’s 
First Lines of Chemistry. Waving, after much trouble, failed to procure a 
copy of the work, it will much oblige me, as well as several other gardeners, 
to know where it can be procured? In a small space it contains a great 
quantity of useful matter; and, as its cheapness puts it within the reach of 
every gardener, I cannot but regret that, in this age of bookmaking, such an 
interesting volume should be allowed to get out of print.— Scientie et Justi- 
tié Amator, Feb. 1834. 

Sowerby’s English Botany. — Why is this most excellent work not published 
oftener? Why are such works as are published on the Jusci, the A'lge, 
and the Fangi, put forth in such a shape as to be accessible only to the 
wealthy, and not, like Mr. Sowerby’s Botany, to be obtainable by all? When 
will the mass of the people be supplied with cheap scientific as well as cheap 
literary food? Iam five and thirty, and, really, 1 am alarmed at the prospect 
of waiting five or six years till the English Botany is finished. I, really, am 
starving for want of that mental food, which my want of wealth will not enable 
me to procure; and must I famish? Surely the public will take four Numbers 
a month of the English Botany.— X. Y.Z. March 19, 1834. 

Mr. Sowerby informs us that he intends, very shortly, to bring out the 
Linghsh Botany weekly, which, we have ‘no doubt, will be highly acceptable 
news to many others, as well as our correspondent. — Cond. 

Absorption of Sap by the Roots of Plants.— 1 have never been able to satisfy 
myself on this subject. The material from which the sap or blood of plants 
is prepared by the leaves, is said to be absorbed from the soil by the spongioles 
or parents of the fibres only. From this I should conclude that the plant 
which had the most fibrous roots would grow the most luxuriantly. Now, I 
have always found the very reverse of this to be the case. According to my 
observation and experience, plants having the largest and strongest roots, . 
though few in number, and without many fibres, always make the strongest 
shoots. This induces me to conclude that nutriment is absorbed by the 
whole of the surface of large roots, as well as by the spongioles on the points 
of fibrous roots. I once took up two vines, in order to bring their roots 
nearer to the surface: I was careful to preserve them entire throughout their 
whole length, though I could not avoid breaking off the whole of the fibres. 
The growth of these vines the next season was as strong as if they had never 
been moved. Now, I should wish to know how this is to be accounted for, 
unless on the supposition that the branchy parts of roots absorb nutriment, as 
well as the fibres? How does a cutting imbibe its support ? Is it through the 
bark, or through the end where it was amputated? I should say, if I adopted 
the spongiole system, through the lower end. If so, when a root was cut, it 
would take in sap faster than when it depended on the spongioles: but this 
would be absurd in theory, and contrary to fact. — J.D. P. Kent, Jan. 1834: 

The Wireworm.— White mustard seed, sown with wheat or other corn, is 
said (Brit. Farm. Mag., vol.v. p. 532.) to protect grain from the wireworm. 
Has it been ascertained, experimentally, that the wireworm will attack the 
young plants of mustard in preference to the plants of wheat, or how is the 
fact, if it be one, explained ? — A Constant Reader. March, 1834. 

Planting Oaks a Year or Two before the Trees intended to nurse them. — 
The oak is notoriously a slow-growing tree, at least as compared with many 
others. Accordingly, when trees of this species are planted as principals, 

x 2 


296 Queries and Answers. 


and other trees of quicker growth at intermediate distances, as nurses or 
supernumeraries, the former are apt to be overgrown, and smothered by the 
latter. To obviate this ill consequence, I have it in contemplation to try the 
experiment of planting the oaks first, and leaving the other trees till the next, 
or perhaps the second, or even the third season following, before they are 
put in. For the first two or three years after transplanting, oaks can scarcely 
be said to grow at all; they commonly do little more than exist, or retain 
life; their growth or increase is a subsequent business, which does not com- 
mence ti!l the roots have taken good hold of the ground. Might not the 
above plan, therefore, be attended with advantageous results ? Would it not 
be the means of giving the oaks a start, as it were, so as to enable them to 
compete with the other trees? Perhaps Mr. Lawrence, or some other of 
your correspondents, would give an opinion on the plan suggested. — W. T. 
Bree. Allesley Rectory, Feb. 19. 1834. 

Lucombe’s Evergreen Oak. (p. 185.) —In reply to your enquiry as to where 
Lucombe’s new evergreen oak can be purchased ; a supply, no doubt, can be 
had at Messrs. Lucombe’s and Pince’s nursery, Exeter; where, some time since, 
I saw the original, a fine young tree of great beauty ; and, being struck with its 
appearance, | ordered a couple of plants, to plant at Clawance, in Cornwall, 
where they, with others of the same variety, more recently purchased, are doing 
well. Mr. Pince informed me that the variety originated with them; but 
whether from acorns from abroad, or from those of the old Lucombe oak, 
I do not now remember. — T.. Rutger. Shertgrove, April 2. 1834. 

The Wicken Tree. (p. 185.) — This is the common name for the mountain 
ash in Lincolnshire. —T. May 3. 1834. 

Do Trees die away when their Roots come in Contact with the Roots of decayed 
Oak Trees ?— This is asserted in the Printing Machine, No. 5., on the autho- 
rity of a Parisian Agricultural Report; and I should be glad if you, or any of 
your numerous readers, would inform me if it is really the case.—J. G. Bir- 
mingham, May 7. 1834. 

Forsyth’s Plaster.—1 wish that some correspondent, who may have had 
experience in the use of this vegetable medicament, would state his opinion of 
the degree of its usefulness, for the purpose for which it was recommended ; 
and give information of the extent to which it is still employed; also whether 
any other mixture has been adopted, which answers the purpose better. — 7’. 
Rutger. Shortgrove, April, 1834. : 

The best Method of treating a House of Geraniums when severely frozen? 
the best Method of flowering Plumbago rosea, so as to obtain good-sized flowers ? 
and the best Work (next to Hogg’s) on the Auricula, giving the engravings of 
the best flowers ? are queries, the answers to which are desired by — An Ama- 
teur of Flora. Great Yarmouth, March 10. 1834. 

The Appio Roots. — Sir Robert Kerr Porter, writing from Caraccas to Dr. 
Hamilton of Plymouth, says, “ I will put in the box a few of the Appio roots, 
with directions how they are to be planted. That useful vegetable, I know, 
has been already introduced into England, but I am not aware whether it has 
been productive. Devonshire, I should think, will also prove better suited to 
the growth of the Appio.” Have you, or your readers, any acquaintance with 
the nature or properties of the Appio? and is ita Glycine? I shall be glad 
to learn something about it before I receive the roots. —Wm. Hamilton, Ply- 
mouth, April 20. 1834: 

Probably A‘pios tuberosa Moen., Glycine A‘pios L.—J. D. 

Swelling of the Fruit of the Pine-apple, by extra Supplies of Water and Heat. 
—E. K. of Ellesmere having requested farther information on this subject, 
than what is given in p. 189., we applied to Mr. Munro, who informs us that 
there is really very little to communicate. The two pine plants selected were 
of the same size, in pots of the same size, and filled with the same soil. Each 
plant showed fruit in an equal state of forwardness, at the time the experiment 
was commenced. ‘The one pot was plunged in the tan, in the usual manner, 
and the other was placed in a shallow pan of water, and set on the tan close 
to the plunged pot. The depth of the water was about 14 in., and it was kept 


Covent Garden Market. 297 


at this depth by a daily supply. The plant in the water grew faster than that 
in the tan; the fruits of both were equally well flavoured, but, as might be 
expected, that liberally supplied with water was the largest and heaviest. 

An eminent pine-grower, with whom we have conversed on this subject, 
questions whether (on the supposition that this mode of growing pines in 
water succeeds) it will be of any real use. Young plants, kept in water all 
the year round, he says, “ I am certain will not do; as the mould in the 
pots would get soddened, and the roots would die. Besides, should it be 
wished to put a whole houseful of plants in water, it would be attended with 
considerable expense. But the grand objection against growing pines in 
water (which is well known to good pine-growers) is, that, if you keep water- 
ing the plants until the fruit is ripe, it loses half its flavour. To have pines 
well flavoured, they should not have a drop of water for at least three weeks 
before they are ripe. The pines brought to market in general have no flavour, 
for that very reason. They are watered to the very day they are cut, in 
order to make them weigh heavier; and, to those who do not understand 
pines, the look is quite sufficient.” — Cond. 


ArT. VIII. Covent Garden Market. 


ie From To ye roe pee y 
q s. d. S. & 
The Cabbage Tribe. £34. \¢s d. Celery, per bundle (12to 15) |9 0 9/0 1 3 
Cabbage, per dozen : Small Salads, per punnet - |90 0 2/0 0 3 
White = - +00 61/0 1 0 Watercress, per dozen small 
Plants or Coleworts - 10 @ 0/0 @ 6|| ., bunches . oO Oa 
Cauliflowers, per dozen 0 3.010 6 o|| Bumet, per bunch Se 10 O 210 O78 
Legumes. Pot and Sweet Herbs. 
Peas { per half sieve 0 5 0/0 7 Oj| Tarragon, per dozen bunches | 9 4 0/0 0 0 
per sieve - - |0 8 0] 019 Oj| Fennel, per dozen bunches- |9 2 0/0 0 0 
Forced, perhalfsieve - |1 5 (| 0 || Thyme, per dozen bunches 020/000 
Kidneybeans, forced, per Sage, per dozen bunches - |9 2 0/0 0 0 
hundred ce - |0 1 61/0 @ Oj Mint, per dozen bunches - |9 2 6/0 0 O 
Tubers and Roots. Peppermint, dried, per dozen 
perionls 0 (58 0) 0) 16h (0) O|lweencrcen pea a eee 010/060 
f: J arjoram, dried, per doz. bun. 
Potatoes per cwt. 05 0/0 6 0 Savory, per dozen bunches. |0 1 0|0 0 O 
per bushel 02 6;0 3 0 . S 
Kidney r ~ - 10 @ 610 0 Ol| Basil dried, per dozen bunch. 013/00 0 
Scotak i y 1 10S 010 0 ol] Rosemary, per dozen bunches 0 40/0 0 0 
Newapecround 5 Aedh@ es ea@haveded Lavender, dried, per doz.bun.|9 2 6|0 0 0 
Rei ieacneralD ate > 10 0 6 {0 0 8i| 1ams¥: dried, per doz. bunches 0 1 03;0 0 O 
pumips, uit yao - 10 0 4]0 O 6)| Stalks and Fruits for Tarts, 
arrots, p : Pickling, &c. 
Old = Z - |0 0 3/0 © 41) Rhubarb Stalk bundl 008/010 
Soma e 4) e STAN GO Oso 2 ; 2 Sara 
ee : - 5 co - 10 0 6;0 0 9 Edible Fungi and Fuct. 
ed Beet, perdozen - - |Q0 EF 0;0 1 6! Morels, dry, per pound - |018 0/0 00 
Scorzonera, per bundle Slo nn GIO OO sEneii 
Salsaty, ae Poa : 2 Gea ghana. @ Truffles, English, per pound 012 010 0 0 
Horseradish, perbundle - |9 2 6/0 5 0 Fruits. 
Radishes : . 
Red, per dozen hands (24 to JD GEE so CLS 
BO leach) i i oe elo os “ Golaen Hons Lee r 0/0 16 
deem . aking, per bushel - - 0 
White Turnip, perbunch | 0 0 1] 0 0 American, perdozen - 1/0 2 0 f f 5 
i ‘ French Crabs - - 1}0 8 0 0 
The Spinach Tribe. Gooseberry Pippins - - |0 7 0 o "3 ® 
Spinach ee sieve - }0 0 9]0 1 Oj Peaches, per dozen - - 1/1 0 0/110 0 
j9) per half sieve . 0 0 6j0 O O}| Nectarines, perdozen - - 100;110 0 
Sorrel, per half sieve - 00 9 1 0}| Almonds, per peck - - 0701080 
: jf Cherries, per pound - - |015 0/1 0 
" The Onion Tribe. Gooseberries, per half sieve 04 0;)0 7 D 
nions : Strawberries, torced, per oz. 004/010 
Old, per bushel - - |0 7 0|010 O|| Pine-apples, per pound - |010 0/018 0 
A eboules, green, per bunch | 0 ; 2 ¢ e 3 Grapes, Hot house, per pound) 0 2 6/012 0 
arlic, per poun - - 10 8 C elons, eac - - - {010 0/100 
pena: Poe Cucumbers, fame, perbrace |0 10/0 20 
G A per dozen - - {0410/0 8 
Salads, &e. Oranges } perhundrea - {0 5 0/018 D 
Asparagus, per hundred - |0 3 6/0 6 ( perdozen - - {0 10/0 2 0 
Secoedgiee, =~ 2 «10 2 010 3 olf LEMONS Q per hundred =. 10 6 0/012 0 
Small oO = Oo - |0 1 8{0 1 6)|Sweet Almonds, per pound 02 0/0 2 6 
Lettuce, per score: 4 Brazil Nuts, perpeck - - |0 3 6/0 4 O 
Cos E . - |0 1 040 2 Oj\Spanish Nuts, per peck - 04 0;0 00 
0 4 0}0 6 O}| Barcelona Nuts, per peck - [0 50/0 0 O 


Cabbage - co 
é 


298 London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Observations. — The prevalence of warm weather, with genial showers, in the 
early part of this month, has caused a considerable improvement in the supply 
of the market, with most of the articles usually furnished at this season. Of 
cabbages we have had considerable quantities of the early variety cultivated 
in the neighbourhood of London. ‘This is completely an improved sort in 
the hands of the London gardeners exclusively. Owing to the mildness of 
the winter, forced peas did not answer so well as usual, being so rapidly suc- 
ceeded by those from the natural ground, although many of the early crops 
were entirely destroyed by frost. We have now a fair supply of early peas, 
at very moderate prices. Asparagus has been abundant, and very reasonable : 
it is now in most excellent condition, having the advantage of strong sunshine 
to bring it to maturity. Cos lettuces are now being supplied, in good quan- 
tities, of excellent quality. Potatoes have become comparatively scarce, and 
realise much better prices; but the supply of other vegetables in abundance 
will prevent them reaching a higher rate. We have had, as usual, a good 
supply of early kidneys from the west of England by steam, which proves at 
once the advantage to the public of such conveyance. Our stock of apples 
is nearly exhausted, but the supply of rhubarb, now very large, makes up the 
deficiency in it. Gooseberries come to hand more freely; the crop of goose- 
berries is very light, but the breadth under culture is so considerable, that no 
inconvenience will be felt by the public, either in quantity or price. Forced 
strawberries have been plentiful ; the prospect for crop in the open ground is 
very good. Grapes of excellent size and quality, particularly the black Ham- 
burgh, are plentiful. Some few peaches are also to be seen. Cherries plen- 
tiful and good. Pine-apples, of size and quality, are in demand; and have as 
yet realised a good price. Oranges are plentiful, but not so fine as usual, 
prices very moderate, but those of the best quality are in demand.— G. C. 
May 20. 1834. 


Art. IX. London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


AprRiL 15. 1834. — Books presented. From the list of these we quote two: 
Cinquantiéme Exposition Publique de la Société Royale d’ Agriculture et de 
Botanique a Gand, presented by the Ghent Society; Part ii. of vol. xviii. of 
the Asiatic Researches, presented by the Asiatic Society of Bengal. 

Exiubited. Six lemons from the open air, in the garden of J. Strong, Esq., 
South Town, Dartmouth. Azalea /edifolia, a seedling fuchsia, Genista cana- 
riénsis, Erica aristata major, Amaryllis retinérvia, E’pacris paluddsa, and 
Mesembryanthemum micans, and other plants; from Lady Antrobus: gar- 
dener, Mr. J. Green. T'acsonia pinnatistipula, Passiflora racemosa and alata, 
Hibiscus Rosa-sinénsis, Wistaria Consequana, Sparrmannia africana, Fécoma 
australis, and Edwardsia grandiflora; from Mrs. Marryatt, who, on May 6., 
exhibited some of the same species, with Trillium grandiflorum, &c. Three 
very fine cucumbers, from H. Butler, Esq. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Gésnera latifolia and bulbdsa, Cho- 
r6zema Henchmann), Aristolochia trilobata, Dracz‘na stricta, Keranthemum 
sp.; Bérberis Aquifolium, repens, glumacea, and fasciculiris; Wistaria Con- 
sequana; Ribes speciosum, atreum serétinum, and the dark variety of sanguf- 
neum ; Magnolia Soulangedna, Euchilus obcordatus, and other plants. 

Distributed. Numerous packets of seeds of the following vegetables ; — 
Early yellow Spanish radish, Purple Spanish radish, True watercress, Turnip- 
rootstocked celery, Solid-stalked cardoon, and Brussels sprout. 

May \.—Tne Anniversary Meeting took place, when a report on the affairs 
of the Society was read, and officers for the ensuing year elected. It appears 
from the report, that there has been a surplus of income over expenditure, 
for the year ending March 31. 1834, of 1574/. 18s. 7d. Out of this sum the 
Society have paid off two bonds amounting to 920/., leaving the gross amount 
of the debt at 17,602/. 11s. 9d.; which, there can be no doubt, they will soon 
be able to discharge. 


London Horticultural Society and Garden. 299 


May 6.—Read. A Report on the State of the Thermometer at Night, since 
April 1., as observed in the Society’s garden, by Mr. R. Thompson. 

Exhibited. Shaddocks, from R. B. De Beauvoir, Esq. <A carved specimen 
of bamboo from China, from J. Reeves, Esq. Specimens of garden pots, 
from Mr. Edwards, Burton upon Trent: orders received by Mr. Goode, 15. 
Mill Street. Erica ovata, mirabilis, echiiflora, purpurea, propéndens, per- 
spicua, vestita alba, vestita coccinea, and. Hartnella; Boronia serrulata, 
Chorézema Henchmanni, Berckhéya grandiflora; Petunia, a new dwarf spe- 
cies, and a large lilac species; Pelargonium, Ne plus ultra; Calceolaria vis- 
cosissima and angustifolia; from Mrs. Lawrence. Zygophyllum sp., from 
Mrs. Meyer. Ixias, from W. Wells, Esq. Seedling heartseases (sown July, 
1833), from Mr. Cockburn, gardener to Lord Mansfield. Sweeney nonpareils, 
from T. N. Parker, Esq., of Sweeney Hall: these, at this late period, had a 
rich colour and flavour. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Wistaria Consequana, Vibirnum coti- 
nifolium, Duvata latifolia, Collétia spinosa [Colletéa serratifolia has stood out, 
for two or three successive winters, in the Society’s garden; and also at the 
foot of a south wall, in Whitley and Co.’s nursery, Fulham: hence this spe- 
cies may be deemed almost hardy], Acacia verticillata, Phlox procimbens 
and vérna, Plectrites congésta, Collinsta grandiflora, Euphorbia pree‘cox, 
Rosa Banksie alba and lutea; Rzbes atreum serétimum, niveum, inébrians, 
speciosum, and multiflorum ; Senecio ‘licifolius, Mimulus variegatus, Collomia 
coccinea, Azalea /edifolia, Anisanthus spléndens, Anagyris indica, Ondnis 
angustifolia, Lupinus rivularis, Bérberis glatica. 

The Show at the Gardens, on May 10., was the best that has yet taken place. 
It was most numerously attended; the day was fine, and the gardens full of 
the freshness and the vigour of spring. The first striking object on entering 
was the Wistarza Consequana, covered with some thousands of bunches of 
flowers; most of which were expanded to the point of their greatest beauty, 
and but a few so far as to have begun to drop their corollas. 

The plants exhibited for competition were chiefly remarkable for the very 
superior style in which they had been grown. There were some new and 
rare articles; such as Dettzia scabra, a climber from Japan, resembling a 
Combrétum, and which has now flowered, in the Society’s garden, for the first 
time in Europe. A Xeranthemum from the Swan River, a very handsome 
annual, which has now flowered, for the first time, in the garden of Robert 
Mangles, Esq., at Whitmore Lodge, Sunning Hill, Berkshire, was exhibited by 
his gardener, Mr. Donald Mackay; but the chief display was made by large 
and gorgeous specimens of Epiphyllum speciosum, Céreus speciosissimus, 
and the allied species; azaleas, hybrid rhododendrons, heaths, Cape and New 
Holland shrubs; Cyrtanthus obliquus, and other Orchidez; O’xalis, stocks 
(among which were none at all equal to the specimens described p. 278.), 
Schizanthus, pelargoniums, &c. There was a remarkably fine collection 
of Dutch anemones, from the nursery of Messrs. Lucombe, Pince, and 
Co., of Exeter. Some of the flowers were upwards of 4 in. across; and 
others consisted of two or three flowers, grown together in the manner of the 
cockscomb amaranth: they were much and deservedly admired. There were 
several collections of pansies exhibited, of which by far the finest and most 
tastefully arranged was one of those sent by Mr. Glenny, but which unfortu- 
nately arrived too late to enter into competition for the prizes; a collection 
of tulips, &e. 

Among the fruits were, Hamburgh and sweetwater grapes, remarkably large 
and fine, and several pine-apples, from the garden of Lady Clarke; exhibited 
by her gardener, Mr. Dowding. We have been promised a journal of 
Mr. Dowding’s grape culture for one year, which will be a most valuable 
article. There were also excellent grapes, by Mr. Wilmot. Mr. Corbet, nur- 
seryman at Stratford, Essex, exhibited, on the part of Peter Fry, Esq., of Comp- 
ton House, Somersetshire, two large fruit of a variety of citron, produced from 
one truss of blossoms on a small plant. We pass over numerous other articles, 
all deserving of notice. We were glad to see a great many gardeners present : 


300 Ob:tuary. 


nothing can do a man, who is shut up for half the year within the walls of his 
own garden, more good, than comparing his productions with those of thirty 
or forty other gardeners ; and becoming, at the same time, personally acquainted 
with them. For this reason, we think, these shows, which any one may attend 
who can afford 5s., will do fifty times more good than the guinea fétes of 
former times. 

Since the above was sent to press, we have seen, during a week’s tour, 
chiefly in Surrey, a number of gardeners and other persons, who were present 
at the show, or who had heard of it through their friends, and we can state 
that, without a single exception, they all seemed highly delighted with it. 
One exhibiter suggested that placing the plants promiscuously on a stage, 
though it produced a splendid general effect, yet did not exhibit with suffi- 
ecient force the peculiar character or excellences of individual species. Some 
flowers, such as those of Azalea, he says, do not show nearly so well when 
looked up to, as when looked down upon; others, on the contrary, such as 
those of Céreus speciosissimus, Atragéne, Clématis, and bell-shaped flowers 
generally, appear to most advantage when seen from below. Perhaps the 
best way-to satisfy our friend would be to arrange all the plants in rows, each 
row being placed on a narrow table, and there being a broad path between 
the tables. The general plan of a show-room so arranged would resemble 
that of a Lancasterian school; and spectators, beginning at one end, would 
follow one another, examining each individual plant in succession, till they 
reached the other end. 

The following is the official statement of the distribution of prizes: — 

The gold Banksian medal: 1. For a collection of stove and green-house 
plants, exhibited by Mr. J. Green, gardener to Sir E. Antrobus, Bart.; 2. For 
grapes and pine-apples, exhibited by Mr. Dowding, gardener to Lady Clarke; 
3. For a miscellaneous collection of plants, from Messrs. Rollisson of Tooting 
Nursery. 

The large silver medal: 1. For a collection of stove and green-house 
plants, exhibited by Mr. Falconer, gardener to Archdall Palmer, Esq.; 2. For 
grapes, exhibited by Mr. John Wilmot of Isleworth; 3. For a collection of 
azaleas, from Mrs. Waterer of Knap Hill, near Ripley; 4. For a collection of 
pelargoniums, from Messrs. Colley and Hill of Hammersmith; 5. For a mis- 
eellaneous collection of plants, exhibited by Mr. S. Snow, gardener to J. H. 
Palmer, Esq.; 6. For a miscellaneous collection of plants, from Mr. Gaines, 
Surrey Lane, Battersea. 

The silver Banksian medal: 1. For a collection of heartseases, from Mr. 
Salter of Shepherd’s Bush; 2. For a cucumber, from Mr. G. Mills, gardener 
to Alex. Copland, Esq.; 3. For a miscellaneous collection of flowers, from 
Mr. G. Mills; 4. For a miscellaneous collection of flowers, from Mrs. Law- 
rence, F.H.S.; 5. For a miscellaneous collection of flowers, from Mrs. 
Marryatt, F.H.S.; 6. For forced apricots and raspberries, from P. C. La- 
bouchere, Esq.; 7. For a plant of Boronia serrulata, from Mr. Douglas, gar- 
dener to the Earl De Grey ; 8. For citrons and shaddocks, from Peter Fry, 
Esq., Compton House, Somersetshire. 

The next exhibition will be on Saturday, June 7. 


ArT. X. Obituary. 


Diep, at Toft, in Cheshire, on the 23d day of February, 1833, in the 37th 
year of his age, Mr. James Houseman, a frequent correspondent of this 
Magazine; a man of sound knowledge and good understanding. Though 
diverted from his profession to a different pursuit, he was a good gardener, 
and a persevering amateur of botany. —J. G. Feb. 1834. 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
JULY, 1834. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Art.I. Notes on Gardens and Country Seats, visited, from July 27. 
to September 16., during a Tour through Part of Middlesex, Berk- 
shire, Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire, Wiltshire, Dorsetshire, Hamp- 
shire, Sussex, and Kent. By the ConpucTor. 


(Continued from p. 259.) 


Eiicor Parr, Bacon, Esq.— Aug. 16. ‘This place is 
celebrated as the scene in which the mode of heating hot-houses 
by hot water was displayed, in 1823 (III. 186.), to the British 
public; we will not say for the first time, because we have 
shown (III, Pref:) that it was exhibited in the hot-houses at 
Sundridge Park, by the Comte Chabannes, in 1816; but we do 
say that it was from the apparatus displayed in this garden that 
this mode of heating first became generally known to the British 
public. We also believe that the late Mr. Bacon invented it at 
Aberaman, in 1821 (IV. 439.), as Mr. Atkinson appears to have 
done in London, in 1822. (III. 423.) There is nothing un- 
common in different persons inventing the same thing at nearly 
the same time, without any knowledge of each other’s ideas. 
Inventions are more commonly results of the general state of 
science on a particular subject, at a given time, than of the cha-. 
racter or degree of knowledge of an individual mind. 

Elcot Park displays an even, featureless surface, sloping to the 
south, surrounded by a wall of flints, and very imperfectly varied 
within by clumps and single trees. ‘The house is, we believe, 
exceedingly comfortable in the interior; but it has a very com- 
monplace appearance externally, and the walks about it appeared 
to us arranged without sufficient regard to simplicity and dignity. 
There is a good kitchen-garden, and a most excellent gardener’s 
house. Mr. Whale, the gardener here, has removed a whole 
wall of full-grown pear trees, taking up all their roots, and plant- 
ing them in puddle. In front of these, he has, first, a border, 
3 ft. wide, which he never crops; next, a grass walk, of 2 ft.; 
and, lastly, a border, of 6 ft., which he crops very slightly. 

Vou. X,— No. 52. Y¥ 


302 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats. 


The range of hot-houses is 320 ft. long, rather narrow, accord- 
ing to Mr. Whale’s idea: but he counteracts this by training 
his vines in a serpentine manner, and by letting the peach and 
nectarine trees run half wild. He has grown peaches weighing 
8 0z.; and we saw a vanguard peach which measured 9} in. 
round. ‘The pines are grown in pits, and the suckers are 
planted close to the edges of the pots. Georginas, after being 
planted out, are drawn through inverted sea kale pots, which 
appear as vases containing the plants: their use is to direct the 
water to the centre of the root, and to prevent the lower leaves 
from shading the mignonette or other plants with which the sur- 
face of the surrounding ground may be covered. ‘There are 
nearly sixty varieties of apples in this garden, all finely grown. 
If we were to enter into the details of the conservatory, and the 
shrubbery immediately about the house, we might state many — 
things exceedingly creditable to Mr. Whale; and especially to 
his skill in transplanting trees and shrubs. ‘This he always does 
in puddle, and without any previous preparation; the secret 
consisting in taking up all the ramose roots, however deep or 
far they may extend. ‘This, in fact, may be considered the 
great art of transplanting trees. 

Chilton Lodge, John Pearse, Esq. — Aug. 17. The house is 


placed on a sloping irregular bank, among old beech trees. It 
is a cubical mass in the modern style; badly placed and badly 
approached; though the prospect from it is noble and extensive. _ 
The pleasure-ground and shrubbery walks are meagre; but 
these and the kitchen-garden are exceedingly well managed by 
the gardener, Mr. Hamilton. ‘The gardener’s house is good, 
and much more beautifully situated than that of his master. It 
is placed on the brow of a bank, with the river Kennet beneath, 
and water meadows and a fertile country beyond; forming 
altogether a delightful scene. In the kitchen-garden, we found 
excellent crops, grown in the very best style. ‘The hot-houses 
are heated by hot water, by Mr. Stothart, of Bath. 


ramones OSSD 


Art. II. Notice of a Hot-water Apparatus, invented by Mr. John 
Darkin, Engineer, Norwich. By Mr. Darxin. 


Havrne observed a paragraph respecting this apparatus in a 
Norwich newspaper, we wrote to Mr. Darkin, who, with com- 
mendable liberality and promptitude, sent us the following letter 
and sketch. ‘The system adopted appears to be similar to that 
of Mr. Perkins, but at a temperature not exceeding that of 
boiling water. — Cond. 

In reply to your enquiry, I cannot tell whether my hot-water 
apparatus differs from all others in use or not, never haying seen 


Darkin’s Hot-water Apparatus. 


a, Furnace, section, 


303 


a single desion of the 
kind until after I had 
constructed my own; 
and, since that time, I 
have only read the 
accounts of those which 
are described in the 
Gardener’s Magazine. 
I have derived much 
amusement from these, 
from observing that 
other attempts have 
been attended with 
similar difficulties to 
those which I had to 
encounter, before I 
could get this appara- 
tus to act to my wishes. 
I have great pleasure 
in sending you a de- 
scription of it, in order 
that you may judge of 
its merits; and, if you 
think it likely to afford 
additional hints, and to 
be deserving of a place 
in either the Gard. 
Mag., or in the Arch. 
Mag., it is very much 
at your service. 

The apparatus con- 
sists of a furnace, a 
boiler, cast-iron tubes 
of any diameter, an 
expansion tube, &c., as 
shown in the accom- 
panying sketch. (fe. 
43.) "The tubes may 
be connected with the 
boiler, in any way 
which circumstances 
require, and carried in 
any direction, so that 
they do not descend 


b, Boiler. 

ccc c, Hot-water tubes. 

d, Expansion tube, ee, Returne 
ing tube. 


304 Different Modes of Budding. 


below the level of the bottom of the boiler. It being understood 
that a given number of superficial feet of tube will throw off a 
certain quantity of cubic feet of hot air per minute, it can easily 
be ascertained, by the admeasurement of the house, and the 
quantity of glass in it, what quantity of tubing is required for it. 

I need not enlarge upon the efficiency and economy of my 
own plan of warming, as you will be a competent judge of its 
qualities by my description of it. It certainly has a decided 
superiority, in every respect, over the common mode of heating 
by flues, and particularly in retaining the required temperature 
with a small consumption of fuel, and very trifling attention. 
Boiling water is much to be preferred to steam heat. My own 
green-house, in which the apparatus is constructed, loses but a 
few degrees of heat by allowing the fire to go out for six or eight 
hours in the night. A short time is sufficient to make the water 
boil again, when it expands and displaces the cold water in the 
tubes, which are immediately supplied with hot water from the 
boiler, the cold water retiring through the expansion tube down 
the returning tube, whence it is heated and again projected for- 
ward; thus keeping up a continued circulation of hot water 
through the tubes for a considerable time even after the fire has 
been allowed to die out. 

This apparatus can be applied, with the best effect, to horti- 
cultural and public buildings of every description, mansions, 
offices, warehouses, drying-rooms, &c. &c.; and, as the tubes 
have no connection with the fire, not a particle of burned air is 
communicated by them to the room in which they act. 

Prince’s Street, Tombland, Norwich, June 4. 1834. 


—o0-,, 


Art. III. On the different Modes of Budding ; and of Herbaceous, 


or Summer, Grafting. 


Tuer following article we have translated, with some additions 
and variations, from /’Horticulteur Belge ; and we present it to 
our readers as more complete than any article which has hitherto 
appeared on budding and herbaceous grafting in the English 
language. We have given the French names of the different 
kinds both of budding and grafting; not only because we think 
the doing so will be useful to gardeners who visit the Continent, 
or read French books on gardening, but because many of the 
terms are not translated literally. For example, the French 
apply the word greffe (graft) as a generic term including both 
grafting and budding; whereas the English, and also the Ger- 
mans, use distinct words for these two kinds of operations. ‘The 
Germans use the word veredlung, ennobling or improving, as 
including both grafting, propfen, and budding, ocurlzren. In 
English we have no gardening word to express the two oper- 
ations, although the word insition might be used for this purpose. 


Different Modes of Budding. 305 


I. Buppine. Greffes par Gemmes. 


1, Escutcheon Budding, without a Bud or Eye; Greffe en 
E’cusson sans Yeux. (fig. 44.) —The object of this mode of bud- 
44 ding is simply to cover a wound or blemish in one 
| tree by the live bark of another. ‘Take from a tree 
) of the same sort, or at least of the same genus, as 
the wounded tree, a piece of bark rather larger than 
the wound, and form it into a regular shape; then 
cut the bark round the wound into the exact form 
and dimensions of the piece to be inserted, so that 
the latter may be let into the former with the greatest 
exactness. ‘The inner bark of the graft and that of 
the stock being fitted so as to joint perfectly all round, and the 
shield closely adhering to the tree in every part, it is kept on 
by a ligature; and the edges of the wound are covered with 
grafting-wax or clay. It is a remarkable fact, which some are, 
perhaps, not aware of, that the wood formed under a piece of 
bark inserted in this manner, even though that bark be with- 
out a bud or eye, will be the wood of the tree from which the 
‘shield was taken. In this way several different kinds of wood 
might be formed on one tree, without introducing a single leaf 
belonging to those different woods. The portion of wood intro- 
duced will always be limited in diameter to the size of the portion 
of bark put on. 

2. Budding with a Bud or Eye, and a circular Escutcheon ; 
Greffe en E’cusson par Inoculation. ( fig. 45.) — With the point 

45 of a grafting-knife, or rather with that of a penknife, 

cut a small bud out of the tree to be propagated, 

C4 leaving a narrow rim of bark round it, and taking, 

at the same time, a portion of the wood, which is 

retained. A hole is made in the stock, of the same 

wv) size as the bud and its rim, and of a depth equal to 

the length of the piece of wood left on. ‘The whole 

is adjusted so that the bud, with its bark and wood, 

| fills up the wound exactly; and the edges are then 

covered with grafting-wax. ‘This mode of budding is employed 

to equalise the flower-buds over a tree, by removing some, from 

where there are too many, to those parts 
of the tree where there are too few. 

8. Escutcheon Budding with Wood un- 
der the Bark ; Greffe en E’cusson boisé. 
( fig. 46.) —'To procure the escutcheon, a 
deep and transversal incision is made above 
a healthy and vigorous bud; then, by 
withdrawing the blade of the grafting- 
knife, and entering it rather higher than 

y 3 


306 Different Modes of Budding. 


this cross cut, a narrow strip of bark, three or four lines broad, 
by lin. or 1} in. long, is taken away, terminating in a point at 
the bottom. The eye should be situated about a third from the 
top, and the stipules or other appendages that sometimes ac- 
company the petiole, as well as prickles, &c., must be taken off 
with caution. With the point of the grafting-knife, the wood 
of the escutcheon is then taken out, leaving a small piece imme- 
diately under the eye, and about a third of the length of the 
escutcheon. The bud, thus prepared, is inserted in the stock, and 
then tied as before. ‘This mode of budding is that most gene- 
rally used in European nurseries. 

4. Escutcheon Budding, with a growing Bud; Greffe en E'cus- 
son avec un Chil poussant. —'The escutcheon is cut and placed 
in the same manner as by the preceding method; but, as 
soon as it is inserted, the head of the stock is cut off, and all 
the buds that push from it, except that from the escutcheon, 
are rubbed off as they appear. ‘This mode of budding, when 
done in the spring, has the great advantage of forcing the bud 
to develope itself immediately, thus gaining a year. However, 
it sometimes happens that, if the bud does not take, the sap of 
the stock not being able to find a channel, from all the shoots 
being rubbed off as they appear, the stock, or at least a great 
part of its length, dies of repletion. When done in the month 
of August, this mode of budding seldom succeeds, because the 
young shoot, not having time to ripen, perishes with the frost, 
and often causes the death of the stock. 

5. Escutcheon Budding, with a dormant Bud; Greffe en E’cus- 
son avec un (iil dormant.— 'This mode is similar to the pre- 
ceding; but it is performed in August, and nothing is cut away 
from the stock till the following spring, in order to prevent the 
developement of the bud before that season. ‘Though longer 
before it takes effect, this mode of budding is more certain to 
succeed than the preceding method. It has also the merit of 
not hurting the stock, if it does not take. The inhabitants of 
Vitry, who carry on the greatest commerce in fruit trees in the 
neighbourhood of Paris, use it almost exclusively. ‘This mode 
is that generally used in the British nurseries. 

6. Escutcheon Budding, without the Wood; Greffe en E’cusson 
dénué de Bois. — According to this mode, all the wood is taken 
away except a speck immediately under the bud; to the life 
of which bud, however, that speck is essential. ‘The rest of the 
process is as usual. Besides being very suitable for orange 
trees, this mode of budding is used for all trees having hard 
wood, such as myrtles, hollies, and all analogous species, whe- 
ther indigenous or exotic. It can be done either with the grow- 
ing bud or dormant bud. 

7. Escutcheon Budding, with Pincers; Greffe en E'cusson a 


Different Modes of Budding. 307 


Emporte-piece. (fig. 47.) — A pair of pincers ought to be made 

47 on purpose, with which a piece of bark is taken 

off the stock. With the same instrument, or with 

(y the blade of the grafting-knife, an escutcheon or 

plate of bark, having a vigorous eye in its centre, 

is taken off a young shoot of the tree to be pro- 

pagated. It must be exactly of the same size as 

the wound made in the stock, in order to fill it 

i with the greatest precision. When it is properly 

| xed, it is supported by means of grafting-wax or 

soft wax. This method is excellent for budding old trees, the 

thick and rugged bark of which is not suitable for the ordinary 
modes. : 

8. Escutcheon Budding, with the Eye turned downwards ; Greffe 
en E'cusson a Rebou s. — The escutcheon is cut in such a manner 
that the point of the eye, when placed on the stock, is turned 
downwards, whether the incision in the stock is made in the 
usual manner, or like a ‘T’ reversed, thus, 7. By this method, 
the buds are forced to grow in a direction opposite to that which 
they would have taken naturally; but they soon resume their 
usual position ; and the desired end, viz., that of increasing the 
size of the fruit by stagnating the returning sap, is thus by no 
means attained. 

9. Reversed Escutcheon Budding ; Greffe en E'cusson renversé. 
( fig. 48.) — The escutcheon is prepared in the form of a tri- 
angle; but instead of bringing it to a point under the eye, it is 

48 pointed above it. Jt will be perceived that the in- 
cision in the bark of the stock must be also reversed ; 
y that is to say, instead of being in the form of an 
{ upright 'T, it must be like a T turned upside down, 
| as in the figure. ‘To effect this, the longitudinal 
incision is made above the transversal one, instead 
of making it below it. It is finished with ligaments 
and grafting-wax, as the preceding modes. In com- 
paratively cool and moist climates, like that of 
Britain, the grafting-wax may be dispensed with in 
such cases as this and the three or four preceding ones. ‘This 
manner of budding is almost the only one used in the south of 
Europe, particularly at Genoa and at Hiéres, to multiply orange 
trees. It is also suitable for the propagation of trees having 
abundant and gummy sap; and it might probably be advan- 
tageously employed to secure the success of buds on resinous 
trees. 

10. Budding resinous Trees ; Greffe en E’cusson d’ Arbres ré- 
sineux. (fig. 49.) — An incision is made in the form of 'T, as if 
for an ordinary bud, in the bark of the stock. A double in- 


cision is then made obliquely, about two lines or two lines and a 
y 4 


308 Different Modes of Budding. 


half from the upper part of the T: this incision 
should penetrate the bark to the thickness of nearly 
a line, or so as to reach the soft wood. This mode 
of budding succeeds not only on resinous trees, 
but also on all those that have a gummy and very 
ae sap. 

. Covered Budding ; Greffe en E’cusson cou- 
ei in 50.) — The bud is prepared as usual; 
but, when it is inserted in the stock, instead of a 
ligature, the lines of junction are covered with 
grafting-wax: a piece of bark is then taken from 
another tree, and, a small hole being made in the middle of 
it, it is placed on the escutcheon, so as to cover the 
whole of it except the bud, which appears through 
the hole, as in the figure. A bandage is then put 
over the bark to keep the whole towether. This 
mode of budding is rather too intricate for ordi- 
nary purposes; but it may be worth adopting for 
rare and delicate trees. 

2. Budding with a square Escutcheon ; Greffe en 
E’cusson carré. ( fig. 51.) — Three incisions are made 
in the stock, one transversal, and the two others 
longitudinal, beginning on each side of the horizontal one, and 


50 


51 descending perpendicularly four or five 
lines. They are to be four or five lines 
if apart, and to represent a long square, 
the bottom line of which is wanting. 


This square strip or plate is raised and 
turned down, as in the figure. A square 
escutcheon, provided with a good eye, is 
then cut from a branch of the tree which 
is to be propagated, exactly of the same 
size as the plate stripped down the stock; and it is applied to 
the incision, which it must cover with the greatest exactness. 
This being done, the plate of bark, aldh ¢ was hanging down 
on the stock, is raised, and the escutcheon covered up to the eye; 
‘the line of junction is then coated with grafting-wax, and the 
whole is tied like other buds. It appears that this mode of bud- 
ding was much used formerly, and that it succeeded 
perfectly : but, as it is rather tedious in the exe- 
cution, it is now seldem employed. 

13. Escutcheon Budding, wth a Portion of Ter- 
minal Buds; Greffe en E'cusson par Portion @ Yeux 
terminaux. (jig 52.) — A piece, measuring six or 
eight lines in length, cut from the top of a branch, is 
split in two, dividing the terminal bud exactly in the 
middle. An incision is then made in the stock in 
the form of a T, and the half bud is inserted into it 


Different Modes of Budding. 309 


in the usual manner. In case of need, the terminal eye might 
be divided into four equal parts. The growing bud ought to 
be used to insure success, though this mode will sometimes 
succeed with a dormant bud. ‘This method may be very useful, 
if the tree to be propagated has no young side shoots strong 
enough to admit of a bud being taken from them. It is par- 
ticularly suitable for rare trees, with scaly buds and opposite 
branches. 

14. Annular Flute Budding; Greffe en Flite en Anneau. 
(fig. 53.) — A branch is chosen on the tree which is to be pro- 
pagated, as thick as, or thicker than, the stock, and a ring of bark, 
including an eye, is cut from it, and detached by 
splitting it perpendicularly on one side, and then 
separating it from the wood by inserting under it 
\ the spatula-like handle of the budding-knife. A 
| similar cperation is then performed on the stock ; that 
' is to say, a ring of bark, exactly of the same size, is 
detached from the stem in the same manner, but 
without caring whether there are buds on it or not. 
In its place is put the ring taken from the branch 
to be propagated, with the precaution of making the inner 
barks join together exactly both at top and bottom. No 
binding is applied; but the whole is covered with grafting- 
clay (onguent de St. Fiacre) or grafting-wax. Neither the 
branches nor the head of the stock are to be cut down till the 
bud has taken. ‘The two periods most favourable for this sort 
of budding are, the time of the greatest movement of the sap in 
the spring, and at the end of its greatest movement in August. 
This mode of budding has the advantage of never mutilating 
the stock ; because, if it does not take, the bark of the ring sup- 
plies the place of that taken away. It is not only suitable for 
the propagation of walnut trees, but also for the increase of all 
rare trees with hard wood, such as the American oaks and 
chestnuts. 

15. Split Flute Budding ; Greffe en Flite fendue. — The only 
difference between this and the preceding mode is, that, if the 
ring of bark containing the bud is larger than the space pre- 
pared for it on the stock, a piece must be taken from it longi- 

54 tudinally, so as to make it fit exactly. 
_ 16. Flute Budding by close Contact, Tube Bud- 
9 ding; Greffe en Elite par Juxtaposition, ou en Sifflet. 
| (fig. 54.) —- The head of the stock being cut off, a 
ring of bark, 2in. or 3in. long, is removed. A 
shoot is then taken from the tree to be increased, of 
exactly the same thickness as the stock, and a ring 
or tube of bark is taken off the thick end, without 
being split longitudinally, not quite so long as the 


310 Different Modes of Grafting. 


piece of bark taken off the stock, but provided with two or three 
good eyes. The tube thus formed is placed upon the stock in 
the room of the one taken away, and care is taken to make the 
two edges of bark join below. ‘The part of the stock which 
projects over the ring of bark is next split into shreds, and 
brought down over it all round, so as, when secured by grafting- 
clay, to keep it in its place. ‘This mode of budding is chiefly 
employed in the south of France for propagating walnuts, 
chestnuts, figs, mulberries, and other trees with thick bark and 
abundant pith. 

17. Common Flute Budding; Greffe en Flite ordinatre. 
(fig. 55.) — The head of the stock is cut off; but, instead of 
removing a ring of bark, as in the preceding mode, it is cut 
longitudinally into four or five strips, 
each 2in. or 3in. long, and turned 
down as in the figure, being left still 
attached to the tree. From a shoot of 
the tree to be propagated, a tube of 
bark is taken, furnished with four or 
five eyes, rather shorter than the strips, 
though longer than in tube budding. 
When the tube of the scion is slipped 
on the stock, the strips of bark are 
raised over it, and fastened at the top by a ligature. This method 
of budding is in very general use both in France and Germany. 

18. Flute Budding in Shreds, with the Stock cut obliquely 
Greffe en Flite et en Laniere. — This is nothing more than the 
mode above described, with the end of the stock cut obliquely, 
as shown at a in jig. 55., instead of being left to be afterwards cut 
into shreds and turned down over the tube of bark, as in tube 
budding, No. 16., fig. 54. 


IJ. Herpaceous Grartine. Greffe Herbacée. 


1. Grafting upon fieshy or tuberculous Roots; Greffe sur Ra- 
cines chranues ou tuberculeuses. (fig. 56.) —It not unfrequently 
happens that a tubercle of a georgina root is found 
without eyes; and, when this is the case, notwith- 
standing all the care of the cultivator, it may 
remain in the ground one or two years without 
budding, till at last it rots. This imperfection is 
easily discovered if the neck of the tuber is look- 
ed at attentively, for it is always there that the 
buds are found. In this case, as soonasa georgina 
bud upon some other tuber has begun to germi- 
nate, it is picked out with the point of the graft- 
ing-knife, and is taken away with a small piece of the tubercle 
adhering to it. On the neck of the barren tubercle a small hole 


Different Modes of Grafting. 311 


is made, in which the bud is inserted, but in such a manner as 
that the base of the bud shall be perfectly on a level with the 
surface of the tubercle; and it is cemented with grafting-wax. 
The tubercle is then planted in a pot, taking care not to cover 
the neck on which the graft is, and the pot is plunged in a hot- 
bed under glass. When the graft has taken properly, the 
plant is turned out into the open border. 

2. Herbaceous Furrow-Grafting for vertical Shoots; Greffe 
herbacée en Rainure pour les Omnitiges. (fig. 57.) — A bud with 
a triangular slice of bark and wood, when 
in a soft or herbaceous state, is cut out of 
the scion, and inserted in a corresponding 
groove made in the stock, as shown in the 
figure; a ligature is applied, and afterwards 
erafling-wax. This mode of grafting suc- 
ceeds both with the young wood of trees 
and with herbaceous plants, whether peren- 
nial or annual, M. Tschoudy gave the ar- 
bitrary name of omnztiges to those plants, 
all the shoots of which have an equal tendency upwards, and 
which, of course, are all equally suitable to graft upon. 

3. Herbaceous Grafting for Shoots with opposite Leaves ; 
Greffe herbacée pour les Bourgeons ad Feuilles opposées. (fig. 58.) 
In the middle of the stem, between two opposite 
eyes, an angular and longitudinal incision is 
made, traversing the stem from one side to the 
other. The graft is cut angularly at its top 
and bottom, and it is inserted as in the figure. 
The binding, &c., is then put on as usual. 
This mode of grafting is suitable for those 
species of trees, and annual or perennial plants, 
the buds of which are opposite on the stem, 
which happens most frequently on the central 
shoots of plants. M.'Tschoudy gives the name 
of multitiges to those plants, the central shoots of which have a 
tendency to rise more vertically than the lateral ones, and 
which have consequently more vigour: it is upon these central 
shoots that the grafts ought to be made. 

4. Grafting on the Stem of Annual or Perennial 
Plants; Greffe sur Tige de Plantes Annuelles ou 
Vivaces. ( fig. 59.) —'The period chosen for this 
mode of grafting is that of the greatest vigour of 
the plant, that is, some days before its going into 
flower. The stem of the stock is cut through 
above a leaf, as near as possible to its petiole, and 
a slit downwards is made in the section. A 
shoot is then taken off near the root of the plant to 


312 Different Modes of Grafting. 


be increased, the end of which is cut into a wedge shape, and is 
inserted in the slip made in the stock, taking great care of the 
leaf on the latter; for it is that which must nourish the cion until 
it has taken thoroughly, by keeping up the circulation of the sap. 
A bandage is applied, and the junction covered with grafting- 
wax, as before. When the graft has taken, which is ascertained 
by its growth, the ligature is removed, and the old leaf, and the 
shoots from the stock below the graft, are re- 
moved. M. ‘I'schoudy grafted in this manner 
artichokes upon cardoons, and other plants on 
their congeners. 

5. Grafting on Succulents; Greffe des Plantes 
Grasses. (fig. 60.)—Take a young shoot or leaf of 
a succulent plant (for example, of a cactus or 
opuntia), and, cutting its base to a point or wedge, 
insert it in a hole or slit made in the stem or leaf 
of another species, but of the same genus. 

6. Grafting the Melon; Greffe du Melon. 
(fig. 61.) — On the stem ofa cucumber, or any other plant of the 
family of Cucurbitaceze, but having some analogy with the melon, 
choose a vigorous part of a shoot having 
a well-developed leaf. In the axil of 
this leaf an oblique cut is made, of half its 
thickness. The point of a melon shoot, 
so far developed as to have its fruit quite 
formed, is then cut off, and pointed at 
its end, 2in. below the fruit. It is in- 
serted in the cleft made in the stock, al- 
ways taking care to spare the leaf until 
the cion has taken. The remaining part 
of the operation is performed in the 
usual manner with ligatures and grafting-wax. This mode of 
grafting succeeds pretty well; but it has not hitherto been ap- 
plied to any useful end. Tomatoes may be grafted in this 
manner on potatoes, and it is said that potato plants thus treated 
produce good crops both of potatoes and tomatoes. 

Grafting-wax may be formed with turpentine, bees’ wax, resin, 
and a little tallow, melted together. It may either be put on in 
the same manner as grafting-clay, but not more than a quarter 
of an inch in thickness; or it may be very thinly spread upon 
cotton cloth, and used in shreds like sticking-plaster. In this 
last state it serves both as a ligature for retaining the escutcheon 
or scion in its place, and as a covering for excluding the air. 
In very delicate budding and grafting, fine moss and cotton 
wool are frequently used as substitutes for grafting-clay or graft- 
ing-wax; the moss or cotton being tied firmly on with thread 
or strands of bast matting. 


Design for laying out a Kitchen-Garden. 313 


Art. IV. A Series of Designs for laying out Kitchen-Gardens. By 
Mr. T. Rutcer. Design 2., Containing an Acre within the Walls, 
and Half an Acre in the Slips. 


Tue plan (fg. 63.) is meant either for a mixed garden, or 
for a plain kitchen-garden. By a mixed garden, I mean one 
where flowers are introduced in the borders in the place of 
vegetables, for which, however, I am no advocate: still, in cases 
where there are no flower-gardens, it has been occasionally 
adopted. Gardens of this description are certainly exceedingly 
pleasing to the admirers of Flora, however they may be disliked 
by gardeners. spaliers, in this case, are highly desirable, as 
they shut out from the view everything that would otherwise be 
obnoxious. I have seen gardens of this description that have 
been greatly admired; and therefore I am inclined to give one 
of them, which, at the same time, may be available for a plain 
kitchen-garden, in which case the conservatory, green-house, 
and forcing-house for flowers may be omitted; the central walk 
may be carried through to join the central walk of the garden, 
and the doorways at the sides may be closed up. ‘The area of 
this garden contains the same space as Design 1., fig. 35.; but 
about half an acre is added tu the slips: this also gives the ad- 
vantage of the east and west aspect of the side walls on the out- 
side for fruit trees. 

I have also given the plan of a flower-garden (jig. 62.) for the 
entrance ground, if wanted: it is meant to be in the Dutch 


fi 


: 


: 


1 


style, with box edgings. The irregular border adjoining the 
fence is intended for choice shrubs; and the two side clumps 
for American plants. 


Shortgrove, Essex, 183+. 


314 Design for laying out a Kitchen-Garden. 


‘saaaad 
OF 30 50 100 
if o U 1 U YT { Ft 
Reference for a mixed Garden. —1. Flower-garden. 2. Conservatory. 3. Green-house, 
4. Forcing-house for flowers. 5. Back shed. 6. For green-house plants in summer. 
7. Culinary departments, with espaliers. 8. Flower borders. 9, Pond, surrounded with a 


grass verge. 10. Forcing department. 11. Water basin or pump. 12, Ranges for melons, 


Culture of the Scarlet Runner. 315 


cucumbers, &c. 13. Pine-stove. 14, Peach-house. 15. Vinery. 16. Pits. 17. Back 


shed. _ 18. Department for compost, mixing dung, &c. 19. Mushroom sheds, tool-house, 
wintering vegetables, &c. 20. Slips. 21. Gardener’s house. £22. Fruit and onion room, 
with lodging-room for under-gardener, and seed-room over. 23. Yard to gardener’s house. 


24. For pot-herbs. 
Reference for a plain Kitchen-Garden.—1, Fruit garden. 2, 3, 4, 5. To be omitted, if not desirable. 
6, 7, 8. Culinary departments, with espaliers. 9. Pond. 10. Forcing department. 11. Water 


basin or pump. 12. Ranges for melons, cucumbers, &c. 13. Pine stove. 14. Peach house. 
15. Vinery. 16. Pits. 17. Back shea. 18. Department for compost, mixing dung, &c. 
19. Mushroom sheds, tool-house, wintering vegetables, &c. 20. Slips. 21. Gardener’s house. 


22. Fruit and onion room, with lodging-room for under-gardener, and seed room over. 23. Yard 
to gardener’s house. 24, For potherbs. 


Art. V. On taking up the Roots of the Scarlet Runner in the 


Autumn, preserving them through the Winter, and replanting them 


an Spring. By Mr. James Curuiv1, Gardener to Lawrence Sulli- 

van, Esq., Broom House, Fulham. 

I HAvE made a discovery, with respect to the scarlet runner, 
which, I am told, may prove of some consequence both in the 
management of gentlemen’s gardens, and those of cottagers. 

In the month of November last, when digging the ground 
where the crop of runners had grown, I could not help noticing 
the large size of the roots; and it occurred to me that, if I took 
them up, potted them, and kept them in a cold pit during the 
winter, they might furnish another crop the following spring. 
I tried the experiment on two of the best roots, potting them, 
and keeping them in a cold pit till the 1st of February. At 
that time I put them into a hot-house, in which the average 
temperature was about 60°. They soon began to send up 
strong shoots, and to show flower in abundance from the ground 
upwards. They are now about 12 ft. high, and make a very 
good appearance in a green-house, where they pass with many 
for a new species of plant. 

If I had saved thirty or forty roots, and had put them in heat 
in spring, in the manner done with georginas, and if I had 
turned them out in the open air about the same time that these 
plants are turned out, I certainly should have been able to 
gather kidneybeans a month sooner than is done by the usual 
practice of sowing in the open garden. 

In cottage gardens, the roots might be taken up every autumn, 
and preserved in the same way as those of potatoes; and, by 
being planted on a fresh piece of ground in spring, they would 
not only produce a much earlier, but a much more abundant 
crop than one raised from seeds. 

Fulham, May 10. 1834. 


Wir this communication Mr. Cuthill sent us ten racemes of 
flowers, on most of which a number of pods were set; in some 
five, and in others six or seven. For previous notices of the 
scarlet runner, and of crops obtained from plants of it in their 
second year, see VII. 485., VIII. 53. — Cond. 


316 On Fruits and Fruit Trees. 


Art. VI. On Fruits and Fruit Trees. By Mr. T. Rivers, Jun. 


I am a great lover of fruits, and a persevering cultivator ; 
that is, I spare no pains or application to arrive at correct 
nomenclature; but surely no one, but a man like Mr. Thompson 
of the London Horticultural Society, can form any idea of the 
extreme difficulty of attaining that object. Before the publica- 
tion of the Pomological Magazine, and the last Catalogue of the 
London Horticultural Society, it was all confusion ‘ worse con- 
fused.”” Some ten or fifteen years since, I used to order the 
same article of two or three respectable London nurserymen, 
and, if they all proved of similar habits, I hoped I had got the 
right; but if, as it often happened, they were all different, I 
almost despaired of getting correctly the plant I wanted. ‘There 
was no individual blame, for we nurserymen all thought we 
were right. ‘Thanks to the London Horticultural Society, these 
times are passed, and we now know what to recommend. Mr. 
Thompson will, however, find the Catalogue even now to require 
revision and correction in the next edition: his ample notes 
taken in season, and his fine opportunities for taking them, will 
allow him to do this in the best possible manner. 

It is now some years since you inserted my account of an or- 
chard in miniature in your Magazine [ Malus, in III. 281—283.}: 
it is still in being, and annually exacts my admiration. Planted 
on untrenched ground, the substratum strong clay, and the 
surface never dug, though kept quite clean with the hoe, the trees 
make short shoots, which are made still shorter by the knife in 
July: in consequence, every tree is a dense mass of blossom and 
fruit in its respective seasons, quite delightful to witness. None 
of the trees are larger than a full-sized gooseberry bush. [fig. 104. 
in III. 282.] (Mr. Turner of the Bury Botanic Garden, who 
has seen this miniature orchard, has expressed to us his admira-= 
tion of it. —J. D.] 

The Flemish and other new Pears. — Every person with a 
garden of ten square yards ought to plant an Easter beurré, a 
Marie Louise, and a Hacon’s incomparable pear: if they have 
a larger garden, let them add gloux morceau, beurré Diel, 
beurré rance, and passe Colmar. ‘These pear trees are all 
great bearers of fruit of excellent quality; and they seem to 
flourish in any soil. Confine their roots in a basin of stones, 
and you may have a pear orchard in miniature without quince 
stocks. I have a pyretum, in a row on each side of a walk, of 
nearly 200 varieties, in which is every sort that I have ever 
heard of as worth notice: besides this, in different parts of the 
grounds, in detached rows, are upwards of 600 pear trees for 
bearing fruit, in various stages of growth, from 5 years to 50. 
Every tree planted by my ancestors (for we have been “located ” 


On Fruits and Fruit Trees. 317 


here nearly a century), of a sort not exactly to my mind, I have 
had grafted with the new varieties; and the effect is wonderful. 
I hope soon to be able to send all the valuable sorts to market in 
as great abundance as we have hitherto done those that are com- 
mon and comparatively worthless. I have omitted to say that all 
nurserymen may grow specimens of their pears even in a con- 
fined space: every alternate year, let a man look over the trees 
in winter; and apply to the roots of all those beginning to shoot 
luxuriantly, a sharp spade with unsparing hand; reduce the 
shoots a little at the same time, and there will soon be a regular 
crop of blossom buds. 

I have also formed a proof walk of Apples of 250 sorts. I do 
not allow myself to get beyond this number. As the seasons roll 
on, and defects appear, either in quality or growth, I give some 
their dismissal, some their introduction, and at last hope to be 
somewhat near perfection. ‘The spade is applied to the roots of 
the apple trees in the same manner as to those of the pears, to 
check luxuriance; they are also planted in untrenched ground, 
with a solid clayey substratum. 

Plums and cherries are not quite so tractable, being rather 
impatient of amputation, though I do not despair of keeping 
plums within “rules polite.” 

An Orchard in Pots. ‘Take some large pots, eights or twelves 
of the London potteries, some strong yellow loam mixed with 
one third of good rotten dung in lumps; well drain the pots 
with large pieces of tiles or broken pots, and in this compost 
plant selected small dwarfs of Hawthornden, courtpendu plat, 
Kerry pippin, golden Harvey, Cole’s golden drop, Keswick 
codlin, and scarlet nonpareil apples; Passe Colmar, sickle, Beurré 
de Capiaumont, Marie Louise, and Kaster beurré pears; also 
two or three dwarf prolific nuts. Let the pots stand in the centre, 
if a confined garden; and by all means keep on their surface, all 
summer, lumps of rotten manure. Thus treated, it is astonishing 
how they will flourish; and, if well supplied with water (if 
manured water, the better), they will bear plentifully. In very 
severe winters, a little straw should be put over the pots, to pre- 
vent the roots being injured by the extreme frost. This may 
certainly be called a cockney orchard ; but I know that, if it is not 
profitable, it is very pretty. [Mr. Catling, an accomplished 
gardener at Cambridge, several years ago fruited the Haw- 
thornden apple in a pot. If I recollect rightly, he exhibited a 
plant or plants of it, bearing fruit, at one of the shows of the 
Cambridgeshire Horticultural Society, where it, or they, were 
much admired.—J. D. In Diel’s Obst-Orangerie in Scherben, 
it is shown that every description of fruit tree may be fruited 
in pots. M. Diel proved all the principal apples, pears, cherries, 
and plums grown in Europe, and afterwards published a de- 
scriptive catalogue of them. —Cond.] 

Vou, X.— No. 52. Z 


318 On Fruits and Fruit Trees. 


Grapes from Layers and from Eyes. 1 have never been able, 
after a year or two, to observe any difference in their habits. A 
prejudice has sometimes arisen against layers, owing to their 
being planted with vigorous shoots, and not very vigorous roots ; 
that is, layers but one year in pots. We English nurserymen 
are apt to sell all our plants too young: in this trading country, 
one wants a quick return, even nurserymen!! ‘ Heaven save 
the mark!!’? why, we ought not to have a return, but once in 
ten years. Grapes ought to be layed in 32-pots the first year; 
removed from the stool, and put into larger pots, the second year ; 
again removed into twelves the third or fourth year, and not 
sold till they bear fruit; and then the gentleman who plants his 
vinery in January may have an abundant crop of grapes in 
September. Again, our trained apples, pears, plums, cherries, 
peaches, nectarines, and apricots should be trained two years to 
form the plants; and then, instead of allowing them to get full 
of rampant and luxuriant wood, let them be removed every 
season, till all their shoots are fully furnished with blossom buds, 
and their roots are in a state to give those buds enough nourish- 
ment to bear fruit even the first season of removal; so that the 
planter on the wrong side of sixty may not have occasion to sigh 
when he looks at his fruit trees, and to mentally ejaculate, 
‘‘ Before you give me fruit, I may cease to require it.” 

Perhaps, to do all this, a nurseryman ought to have his three- 
score and ten years extended to five score and ten; but, above 
all, he must have his price increased. Now, here is the difficulty : 
in doing all this, we should, like many other great but unre- 
munerated men, live before our times: our trees, that would 
save a man seven years of his life, would be wanted at the same 
price as an unprepared tree; for, in writing, A. will offer a 
trained tree at 5s., B. will offer his at 7s. 6d., and in a note calls 
his prepared trees in-a fruiting state; nevertheless, A. will have 
the order, because he is cheaper, and B.’s recommendation will 
be thought the: puff professional. This will take place in eight 
cases out of ten, for in such disproportion are intelligent amateurs 
of gardening; so that poor B., like all clever fellows that march 
too fast, will find that his peep zm futuro will give him but 
little profit. However, as the plan has not yet been tried to any 
extent, let us hope, in this advancing age, that prepared fruit 
trees may, in a short time, be appreciated. I shall most certainly 
try it; and will, some distant day (life permitting), send you a 
trained Easter beurré pear, with a blossom bud at every joint, 
and see you pluck pears in October, from a tree planted the 


same year. J. Rivers, Jun. 
Sawbridgeworth Nursery, Feb. 1834. 


. Catalogue of Works on Gardening. 319 


REVIEWS. 


Art. I]. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, Rural Archi- 
tecture, §c., lately published, with some Account of those considered the most 
interesting. 


BRITAIN. 


A CATECHISM of Gardening, in which the most useful Culinary Plants in Cul- 
tivation are enumerated ; and the easiest Methods of Management and Culture 
are familiarly described. Intended for the Use of Village Schools and Cottagers. 
Written originally for the “ British Farmer’s Quarterly Magazine.” By an 
Old Practitioner. 12mo. London, 1834. Is. 


This is a cheap little practical work, by Mr. Main, and far better adapted, 
as we think, for its avowed purpose than any of the tracts which have pre- 
ceded it. All these tracts are, at the same time, dearer. The small type and 
closely printed page of the catechism before us show that its benevolent and 
intelligent author is perfectly serious in his wish to extend a knowledge of 
horticulture to the humblest classes of society. 


A Treatise on Roads ; wherein the Principles on which Roads should be made are 
explained and illustrated by the Plans, Specifications, and Contracts made use 
of by Thomas Telford, E'sq., on the Holyhead Road. By the Right Hon. 
Sir Henry Parnell, Bart., Honorary Member of the Institution of Civil 
Engineers, London. 8vo. London, 1833. 11. Is. 


This work, worth all the other works that have appeared on roads put 
together, must soon find its way into the library of every country gentleman, 
land steward, and professional man. We recommend all head gardeners to 
procure the reading of it as soon as possible. They will find in it the er- 
roneous points of Macadam’s system detected scientifically ; and one of the 
most beautiful and perfect systems of ascertaining the state of a road, as to 
the powers of draught required on it, its state of repair, &c., that can well be 
imagined. The best roads in France, and especially in Lorraine, are formed 
exactly as recommended by Mr. Telford. 


FRANCE. 


Le Jardin Fruitier ; Histoire et Culture des Arbres Fruitiers, des Ananas, Me- 
lons, et Fraisiers, §c. Par M. L. Noisette. 2d edit. In monthly 8vo. 
Nos., with coloured plates, 5 francs each. Paris, 1833. 


Annales de Flore, et de Pomone ; ou Journal des Jardins et des Champs, par une 
Réunion de Praticiens. In monthly 8vo. Nos., 3 francs each. Paris, 1833. 


Flore des Serres et des Jardins de Paris, au xix® Siécle. In monthly 8vo Nos. 
Paris, 1833. 


HOLLAND AND THE NETHERLANDS: 


Féte Jubilaire Salon @ Hiver, 1834. 50me Exposition Publique de la Société 
Royale @ Agriculture et de Botanique ad Gand. Pamphlet, 8vo, 49 pages. 
Ghent, 1834. 


This pamphlet consists of lists of the plants exhibited, with names of the 
exhibiters, or supposed exhibiters. As a custom not uncommon on the Con- 
tinent, we may mention that funereal cypresses were exposed in the hall of 
exhibition, in honour of the memory of certain gardeners or amateurs of gar- 
dening deceased during the past year. The names of the exhibiters are given 
alphabetically, and under each name a list of the flowers said to be exhibited 
by them. Among the names of the exhibiters occurs that of the Duke of 
Bedford, who is styled Cultivateur-Agronome a Londres. His Grace is said 
to have exhibited Araucaria excélsa and Banksia latifolia; Mr. Coke, Culti- 

Z 2 


320 Méthode Nouvelle de cultiver le Champignon. 


vateur dans le Comté de Norfolk, to have exhibited Acacia verticillata and 
Azalea indica pheenicea; and Mr. Low of Clapton, Erica mutabilis and Musa 
discolor. Mr. Neill, the Duke of Hamilton, Sir John Sinclair, Mr. Sabine, 
Mr. Spence the entomologist, who is styled Directeur du Jardin Botamque de 
Hull, Dr. Wallich, and the names of some other Britons, were also among 
those of the exhibiters. The reader of this pamphlet may very naturally sup- 
pose that plants were sent to the Ghent exhibition by the British parties 
mentioned ; but we will venture to assert, that by none of the persons above 
mentioned was a single plant sent to the Salon d’Hiver in 1834. The custom 
of putting down what are considered great names as the senders of plants to 
exhibitions of this kind is a sort of pious fraud, not uncommon either in 
the Netherlands or in France. We detest it, and wish that we could, by 
exposing the practice, excite a similar feeling against it in the breasts of all 
other horticulturists. 


Méthode nouvelle, facile, et peu cotitteuse de cultiver le Champignon, &c.: A new, 
easy, and economical, method of cultivating the Mushroom, founded on 
numerous experiments, and suitable to every description of locality, not 
even excepting the interior of apartments. 12mo, 28 pages; two plates. 
Brussels. No date. 


In the introduction, the author informs us that Brussels, during six months 
of the year, is chiefly supplied with mushrooms from Paris; and that spawn, 
also, is generally obtained from that city. Being a great lover of mushrooms, 
he was desirous of obtaining them more easily; and, for this purpose, he 
sought for information on the subject of their culture in books, by observ- 
ation, by travel, and by conversing with cultivators. He does not seem to 
have had recourse to English works; but an Englishman gave him directions 
how to make spawn. By observation he found that too much humidity and 
too much dryness alike destroyed the mushroom spawn, whether in pastures 
or in artificial beds. He found that, if much rain fell in May and June, there 
were very few mushrooms to be found in the meadows in the September fol- 
lowing. He also found that watering a mushroom bed immediately after it 
‘was made destroyed the spawn, as did exposing the bed to the full influence 
of the light and air. In the course cf a tour in Germany he learned what he 
considers his. best mode of producing spawn; which is by the use of short 
horse dung with a little dry cow dung; these being mixed together, the mass 
is pierced with holes, into each of which a little bran of wheat and a pinch of 
sal ammoniac is put. He concludes his chapter on making spawn by observ- 
ing, that, if the farmers and stable-keepers of Belgium knew how to cultivate 
mushrooms, they might soon become so abundant throughout the year, as to 
be within the reach of the poorest citizen. This is an excellent idea, and we 
wish we could impress it on the minds of stable-keepers in England, and, in- 
deed, everywhere. Why should not every hostler grow mushrooms? It 
might be one of his perquisites ; and it would only occupy the hours he now 
spends in the tap. 

Perhaps the only idea in the tract which is new to the English gardener, is 
that of employing the dried powder of cow dung as a surface dressing to 
mushroom beds, and, after it is laid on, watering it with water in which nitre 
has been dissolved, at the rate of two ounces of nitre to the water intended 
for four square feet of ground. The use of nitre, the author says, is an in- 
vention of his own; and he thinks that it not only produces a more abun- 
dant crop, but one eight or ten days earlier. 

He grows mushrooms in boxes, drawers, and in all the different modes enu- 
merated in our Encye. of Gard. (§ 3813. to § 3880., edit. of 1834), and he 
goes even so far as to cultivate them on the shelves of presses in stables or 
cow-houses, in cellars, in garrets, In closets under stairs, in old chests of 
drawers, in bedrooms, and under stages of flowers even in drawing-rooms; in 
short, wherever he can find room for a drawer or box 7 in. deep. 

To preserve mushrooms fresh for a few days after being gathered, he puts 


General Notices. 321 


them in a flower-pot among dry sand, and sets it in a cool place. To preserve 
them for several months, he first dries them a little, next coats them with 
butter, and then immerses them in jelly in a gallipot, covering them with melted 
suet, and tying a piece of bladder over the mouth of the pot. 


Catalogue d’une Partie de Plantes existant en Double au Jardin de la Société 
Royale d Horticulture des Pays Bas, et qui sont ad échanger ou a céder. 
Small 8vo, 18 pages. Brussels, 1830. 


This idea of printing a catalogue of duplicates for exchange seems a good 
one, and one which, if it were not for the expense, might be adopted in this 
country. It must not be forgotten, however, that the plan of exchanges is 
always indicative of a state of society where money is scarce; and therefore 
we hope it may never become general in Britam. At the end of this cata- 
logue it is stated that the society have always on hand a large stock of pine- 
apples, both plants and fruits; also mushrooms, forced salads, and other 
vegetables, fruits, &c. They also possess a complete collection of fruit trees, 
which they propagate for sale or exchange, and guarantee the fidelity of the 
plants to their names. 


Section Botamque. Extrait du Catalogue de J. F. Vandermaelen Genre. 12mo. 
Brussels. 


At Brussels there is an establishment for the engraving and printing of maps. 
This manufacture is carried on in a villa in the suburbs of the town, and this 
villa contains several hot-houses. It appears from this little catalogue that 
the plants kept in these hot-houses, which are chiefly pélargoniums, are pro- 
posed to be exchanged for articles connected with geography or natural his- 
tory. An account of this Ktablissement Géographique was published in 1831, 
in a thin volume, royal 8vo, accompanied by maps, plans, and views. 


Catalogue Général des Pépinicres de Vilvorde. Royal 8vo. Brussels, 1833. 

Catalogue des Pépiniéres de Perch, par Vilvorde et Dieghem. 8vo. Brussels, 
1833. 

Prix-Courant des Plantes disponibles en 1834, chez L. Jacob Makoy, Hor- 
ticulteur, a Liege. 12mo. Liége, 1833. 


Of the above three catalogues, lent us by Mr. M‘Intosh, the first is the 
richest in fruits, and the last in house plants. Indeed, M. Makoy’s collection 
may be considered as one of the richest on the Continent. 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. I. General Notices. 


An easy Method of ornamenting the common Flower-pot.— The pattern is 
drawn on the pot with a black-lead pencil; and, when the figure is large, it. 
may be cut out in pasteboard, and, being laid on the pot, the pencil may be 
carried round the edge of the pasteboard as a guide. 

The black used is the common varnish, called Brunswick black, which is 
sold at every oil-shop. It is laid on with a camel-hair pencil, and about a 
teaspoonful is sufficient for one flower-pot : while using, it should occasionally 
be diluted with two or three drops of spirits of turpentine. Black sealing- 
wax dissolved in spirits of wine will also answer, and may perhaps be pre- 
ferred by ladies, but it is more expensive. .C.— London, March, 1831. 

The Tea Plant.— In a speech delivered by Sir G. T. Staunton, March 18. 
he observes, that the names congou, bohea, and souchong, were not given 
to teas by the Chinese, who merely described their teas as inferior, middling, 
and superior. He adds, that all the black teas imported into this country, 

Z3 


322 Foreign Notices : — France, Germany. 


with a very small exception, were produced by the same plant, and in the 
same district, viz.,that of Bohea. The literal meaning of the term “ congou,” 
in the Chinese, is “ prepared or manufactured,” and the meaning of “ sou- 
chong,” is “ selected.” (Morning Post, March 18. 1834:) 

The Zante Currant. — The fruit of this plant is generally believed to be 
seedless; however, this is not altogether correct. Generally there is found a 
berry in each bunch, near its upper part, twice and often thrice the size of the 
others, which only contains a single seed. This is curious, and, I believe, has 
escaped common observation. — I’. Huthwaite. The Tower, London, June 6. 
1834. 


Art. If. Foreign Notices. 


FRANCE. 


Paris, April, 1834.— After a January and February of almost unexampled 
mildness, we had at last winter in March: short, it is true, but tolerably 
severe. From the 12th to the 20th of March, it froze every day; and on 
the 16th and the 19th, it did considerable mischief to vegetation. A sharp, 
drying wind continued nearly the whole month; and the country in the first 
week in April was not half so beautiful or so spring-like as it was in January. 
Our agriculturists have been lately much annoyed by a spurious kind of manure, 
which has been sold under the name of the noir animalisé, but which does not 
contain either blood or any of those animal matters which have rendered the 
true noir animalisé so valuable asa manure. The adulteration is made with 
the black earth of Picardy, and the fraud may be detected by making a small 
quantity red hot in a shovel, and then suffering it to cool. If pure, the 
cinders will be grey ; but if adulterated, they will be streaked with reddish par- 
ticles. The Horticultural Society of Paris having obtained permission to 
make use of a large room in the hotel de ville (town hall), held their first 
winter exhibition there on Sunday, March 2. The number of flowering plants 
sent was greater than could possibly be received ; and the crowd that came to 
see them during the four days that the plants were exhibited, was great beyond 
what it has ever been on any former occasion. The novelty of a winter 
flower show had, no doubt, some share in producing this numerous attendance, 
but the beauty of the plants exhibited was such as to render any other reason 
unnecessary. M. Neumann, foreman of botanic hot-houses in the Jardin des 
Plantes, has received the Horticultural Society’s large medal of encourage- 
ment. M. Neumann is quite a young man, only thirty-four, but he has seen 
a good deal of his profession, having been sent by Professor Thouin to the 
Isle of Bourbon, where he remained three years, and whence he brought a 
rich collection of plants in 1824.— J. F. 


GERMANY. 


The late Professor Kerner’s Works. — In consequence of the death of the 
professor of natural history here, the celebrated Jean Simon de Kerner, 
some copies of his magnificent works are to be sold, at moderate prices, by D. 
C. Kerner, Rue de la Couronne, at Stuttgard, his son. These works are :—1. J. 
S. de Kerner Genera plantarum selectarum iconibus illustrata, 10 vol. avec 
200 tables, imp. fol. papier vélin anglais; hauteur 2’, largeur 1’ 5” 6’”, pied 
de Paris. Sur chaque dessein l’auteur a trace lanalyse exacte de la fleur, qu’il 
répresente, tel que du calice jusqu’a la poussiére séminale et ’embryon, méme 
toutes ses parties anatomiques sont dessinées avec la plus grande précision ; 
et l’imitation parfaite des formes de chaque plante et la vivacité des couleurs, 
auxquelles il avait le talent de donner léclat de la nature, impriment a ces 
desseins, tous faits par lui méme, le mérite d’un ouvrage original. Chaque 
dessein est accompagné dune feuille de texte en latin, contenant en détail la 
description de la plante, ses synonymes, son espéce, sa patrie, et l’explication 
de l’analyse. 2. J. S. de Kerner, Hortus Sempervirens, exhibens icones planta- 


Domestic Notices. 323 


rum selectarum, quasquas ad vivorum exemplorum normam reddere licuit, 71 
vol. a 12 tables. Desseins, papier vélin anglais, format et texte imprimé en 
latin, comme dans l’ceuvre précédent. Les 852 tables, qui composent cette 
partie, forment une collection des plantes les plus rares et les plus belles des. 
Indes Orientales et Occidentales. 3. J. S. de Kerner, le Raisin, ses espéces et 
variétés, dessinées et colorées d’aprés nature, 12 livraisons en 1 vol. con- 
tenant 144 tables, imp. fol., hauteur 1’ 9” 4/”, largeur 1’ 5” 4/”, texte imprimé 
en frangais. Chaque table représente, outre l’espéce, le détail de toutes ses par- 
ties. 4, J. S. de Kerner, les Melons, 34 tables en 1 vol. méme format et texte, 
imprimé en frangais, représentant les principales espéces de melons.” 

Our correspondent adds :——“ M. Kerner was a man of great talents, and of 
the highest degree of merit in his department of science. His works are 
most beautifully executed ; but, from their great size and cost, copies of them 
are only to be found in imperial or royal libraries. Perhaps some of your 
lords, or your public institutions, might desire copies; and, if so, as they are 
not sold through the booksellers, they can only procure them by applying to. 
M. Kerner, as above. Iam informed that the price asked will be very mo- 
derate, and much less than the works could have been obtained for in the late 
M. Kerner’s lifetime.” — Charles Zoller. Stuttgart, May 17. 1834. 

Plants in the Garden at Hurlach, near Augsburg, brought from Mexico, in 
the spring of 1834, by Baron Karwinsky : — Agave atrovirens, variespina, 
I’xth, sobolifera, laxa, flaccida, serrulata, Espaditas, brachystachya, and tehna- 
canénsis ; Fourcrce‘a longe‘va and rigida; A’loé Sabilla ; Céreus canaliculatus, 
ramosus, gemmatus, and baxanus; Epiphyllum latifrons, longifolium, specio- 
sum flore rubro, and flore liteo; Testudinaria elephantipes macrophylla; 
Euphorbia falgens and heterophylla; Ydcca striata, comdsa, and letevirens ; 
Chameedorea, species; Coco yule, a palm from the coast of the South Sea; 
Bactris aculeata, Passiflora Granadilla. —C. Rauch. London, June, 1834. 


Art. III. Domestic Notices: 


THE Show of the Metropolitan Society of Florists and Amateurs, held at the 
Crown and Anchor Tavern on June 10., was, as we have learned from friends 
who attended it, one of much merit, and one which evinced, both in the pro- 
ductions exhibited, and the number of visiters to inspect them, an improve- 
ment on the previous shows. The flowers of the heartseases, ranunculuses, 
pinks, and other flowers from the open air, were deemed small, and their 
smallness attributed to the dry weather which had preceded; but they were 
generally, otherwise, in fine condition. The heartseases were numerous, and 
of excellent quality: they had a light, lovely appearance ;. compared, by one 
friend, to a multitude of beautiful butterflies. The pinks were not very 
numerous, but were very good. The ranunculuses were beautiful: there were 
several stands of flowers, and some individual ones, shown-far prizes; and, 
besides these, Mr. Groom displayed, not for a prize, a fine collection of about 
fifty kinds; and Mr. Hogarth, also, a collection. Of roses there were five or 
six collections for prizes, and one or two large collections besides. Of pelar- 
goniums there were from 150 to 200 fine specimens of choice and new kinds : 
one with crimped petals, and called Buonaparte, attracted much notice. Among 
the choicer kinds we may name grandissimum, Gains’s pulchérrimum, Smith’s 
magniflorum and Admiral Nelson, falminans, new Duchess of Gloucester ; 
and the following kinds, sent by Mr. Dennis : — Queen Adelaide, habranthum, 
Adansoni, olympicum, concéssum, and some seedling kinds, not yet named, of 
high qualities. Of miscellaneous objects we are told of the under-mentioned : — 
A superb specimen of Kalmia latifolia, contributed by Mr. Waterer, of Knap 
Hill: the plant was tall, large, and covered with flowers. Pimeléa decussata, 
supplied by Mr. Lowe, of the Clapton Nursery; a plant 4 ft. high, garnished 
all over with heads of flowers. Polygala oppositifolia, a plant 5 ft. high, and 
abounding in blossoms: this, with Schizanthus retusus, and some excellent 

Zz 4 


394 Domestic Notices. 


heartseases, were supplied by Mr. Mountjoy, of the Hanwell Nursery. Cereus 
speciosissimus, some plants of, one of them large; and C. Jenkinson, and 
other hybrid kinds. Petunia pheenicea, a fine plant of, by Mr. Gains; and a 
plant of the lilac-corollaed variety, by Mr. Dennis. A Cypripedium, in a pot; 
our informant believes, C. Calctolus. Cut stems (six or eight) of C. specta- 
bile, from Mr. Dennis; three of them bearing two flowers each. A basket of 
about twelve plants, in 60-sized pots, the pots hidden by a covering of moss, 
of Apheléxis humilis? were a very lovely object ; as was a similar basket of 
plants of rica ventricdsa? Of another species of Hrica there was a fine 
single plant. Four fine plants of Sempervivum tabulare, not in flower, but ina 
condition to show best their tabular appearance, were striking to town visiters. 
There was a very large plant of Calceolaria Taylor7; and Mr. Dennis exhibited 
a hybrid originated from Fothergilli, fertilised by C. péndula: its lip is prettily 
spotted and lined. Besides all these, there were ixias, gloxinias, and numerous 
other kinds of plants. The cut flowers were not very numerous: amongst 
these, stocks and larkspurs were predominant. Town visiters regretted that 
not more of the plants were labelled. —J. D. 

The Warwickshire Floral and Horticultural Society offer their large silver 
medal, value 2/., for the most complete Hortus Siccus, which shall be exhibited 
at the sixth exhibition, to be held in Birmingham in November next. Speci- 
mens to be sent to the secretary [we believe, Mr. W. Darke], carriage paid, and 
they will be carefully returned after the awards are adjudged. — Henry Kendal, 
Treasurer, Birmingham, May 28. 1834. 

Wakefield Subscription Botanic Garden. — Mr. William Barrett, nursery and 
seedsman at Wakefield, appears to have made such arrangements in his 
nurseries, as to give them the character of an ornamental garden, combined 
with a botanical one; and this is found to be a great accommodation to his 
neighbours. The terms of admission are remarkably low: viz., for a family, 
10s. 6d.; single subscribers, 7s. ; and each subscriber to be entitled to plants of 
the value of one half of his subscription. Subscribers of 1/. 1s. each will 
be allowed plants to the whole amount of their subscription. According to 
alist published in the Wakefield and Dewsbury Journal, May 23., the collection 
is ample, and the prices are uncommonly low; the finest named pelargoniums 
may be had at from 6d. to 1s. 6d. each, and upwards of a hundred of named 
heartseases at from 4d. to 9d. each. Twenty-one sorts of Fuchsia, at from 
6d. to 1s. 6d. each; and F. longiflora (lately sold in London at 20s. and 10s.) 
for 2s. 6d. 

A Horticultural Society at Hackney. — About a year ago a Horticultural 
Society was formed in this neighbourhood, which you probably have heard of, 
and in November last a Horticultural Reading Society was established at 
Stamford Hill, the rules of which you have seen, and which, I am happy to 
inform you, has succeeded beyond expectation. The number of its members 
exceeds sixty, and many of them are respectable tradesmen altogether uncon- 
nected with gardening. Now, Sir, what I have to coraplain of is, the treat- 
ment, not only which our society has experienced from the other, but the 
treatment the gardener receives from the members at their shows or exhibitions. 
For example, no gardener or nurseryman is admissible as a member, and the 
prizes are awarded to the lady or gentleman from whose garden the articles are 
produced; who may, if they think proper, hand the sum so awarded to the gar- 
dener at the end of the season. This is not all: when the poor fellow carries 
his flowers, &c., to the show or exhibition, he is not allowed to enter the room, 
but they are taken from him at the door, and he must either go home to his 
work, or wait until the prizes are awarded and his master or mistress, with - 
the other ladies and gentlemen, have satiated themselves with examining the 
flowers and vegetables, and scrambling for the fruit, which he and his brethren 
have been exerting themselves to the utmost to bring to perfection. [As the 
remainder of this communication consists of details of a local nature, the 
publication of which could be of no use to our readers generally, we have 
omitted it.| —G. Geddes, Hackney, May 27. 1834. 


Calls at Suburban Gardens. 3925 


SCOTLAND. 


Tyranny towards Gardeners. — One of our readers, remarking on what we 
have stated, p. 162., respecting the tyranny of Russian noblemen, informed us of 
a fact which we could not have believed possible; viz. that, at a place in Perth- 
shire, where he was journeyman a few years ago, the gentleman, who has 
died since this was written, would not allow his servants to see any newspaper, 
notwithstanding they paid for it, unless it was one of a certain tone in politics, 
which they were compelled to purchase, if they wished to have a newspaper 
at all. The same gentleman forced every servant, whether in-door or out- 
door, whatever his religion might be (and several of them were sectarians), 
to go to the parish church in the forenoon. Of course, before they could return, 
and get their dinners, it was too late to go to their respective chapels for the 
afternoon service. 


Art. 1V. Calls at Nurseries and Suburban Gardens. 


CLAREMONT. — May 15. The leaves on the forest trees being now fully 
expanded, without excepting (in consequence of this early season) even the 
ash and the acacia, this place is in its greatest summer’s beauty. About the 
end of October, when the foliage of the oaks has assumed all that variety of 
brown and red of which it is susceptible, and the elms their rich yellows, 
Claremont will be in the height of its autumnal beauty: at about Christmas, 
when the splendid hollies, with their coral berries, bays, Portugal laurels, 
box, laurustinus, silver firs, cedars, &c., and, above all, the undergrowth of the 
common laurel, give it the appearance of a wood of evergreens, it is in its 
greatest winter beauty. In the winter season, indeed, Claremont looks better 
than at any other time, on account of its profusion of magnificent evergreens, 
and its undulating surface of turf, green all the year round, from the shade 
above and the moisture beneath. Altogether, it is a noble place; it 1s only to 
be deeply regretted that it is not also a healthy one to live at. If the place 
were thoroughly drained by the frequent drain system (IX. 447.), and the 
ponds filled up, with a few more of the trees cut down, and more of the 
surface cleared of underwood, there can be little doubt that the salubrity of 
Claremont would be greatly increased. 

The main entrance to the kitchen-garden, for the family residing in the 
mansion, or for strangers, is through the gardener’s house; the ample passage 
across which serves as a telescope to the view along the broad walk of the 
garden. This was, no doubt, an arrangement of Sir John Vanbrugh, made with 
a view to effect, though the privacy of the dwelling is utterly destroyed by it. 
The garden walls were also built by Sir John Vanbrugh ; and we suppose that, 
in his days, the feelings of out-door servants were not so much thought of as 
they are at present. The kitchen-garden commences with a small flower- 
garden, laid out, and, in part, planted, during the time of the late Princess 
Charlotte. A circular clump of azaleas, said to have been planted by the 
princess’s own hands, is now in full bloom, and makes a very splendid appear- 
ance. The azaleas in this clump form one grand irregular tuft; and, in order 
to prevent this irregularity from degenerating into a tame orbicular mass, 
which it soon would do, Mr. M‘Intosh proposes to adopt Mr. Garnier’s mode 
(p- 124.) of taking up the plants, cutting them in a little, and then replanting 
them farther apart from each other. The basin in this garden, the side walls 
of which are built of brick, and lined with cement, having leaked for some 
years past in its upper part, that part has been recently covered with lead, let 
in under the coping, and into the stonework at the bottom; and the water is 
now effectually retained. As a substitute for a shelf round this pond, Mr. 
M‘Intosh has adopted a most convenient pothook ; by lengthening or shorten- 
ing which, the pot containing the plant can be suspended at any depth, and 
taken out and examined at pleasure. Jig. 64. shows a perspective view of 


326 Calls at Nurseries 


wall of the pond; 6, the surface of the ground outside the pond; ce, the 
cs Pinus Cémbra, Gymnocladus ca- 
_ b flower, and a number of others. 
simplex. A plant of Anagyris 
tree, the Judas tree, and the 
——S— num? Plants of the former are 

AN 
cheaper if they were more in de- 
its object would be, to employ gardeners to carry about dried or living speci- 
thrive best in them. About London, specimens in pots or baskets might be 
anthus fragrans, Ribes sanguineum, and a few others. All the American 
slightest injury, and sent in that state to any distance. Perhaps the time may 
road, it is said, will pass near the Knap Hill Nursery, and through that of 
In the flower-garden at Claremont there are a number of 
these vases are without plinths, as in fig. 66. This is a 
It is bad ; because there is an obvious want of connection, and 
vases are placed along walks, therefore, they ought not only to have plinths 
of the scene. The reader who has visited the gardens of 
cases, he may consider it as a fixed principle, that no work 


the hook ; and jig. 65. a section of the pond, showing the hook in its place, 

with a pot in it. In this figure, a is the hook resting on the coping of the 
surface of the water in the pond; and d, the bottom of the pond. 

In this garden are some fine old specimens of cedars, Magnolia grandiflora, 

65 nadénsis, Koelreuteria paniculata, 

Halésia tetraptera, now finely in 

Y i \ Among the half-hardy things, we 

, ~ found strong bushes of Gnidia 

is now beautifully covered with 

bloom. When will this beautiful 

snowdrop tree, become as com- 

mon about London as the labur- 

now almost as cheap as those 

of the latter; and they would be 

mand. Would that we had a society exclusively devoted to the dissemination 

of ornamental trees and shrubs! The way for such a society to accomplish 

mens of the different kinds of ornamental trees and shrubs; and to point out 

to the possessors of gardens, pleasure-grounds, and parks, those which would 

taken round in carts, at the season when they were in flower. We have before 

suggested this for Magnolia conspicua, Wistaria, Caprifoliam sinénse, Chimon- 

shrubs, and other shrubs having hair roots, which are planted in peat earth, 

admit of being taken up with balls, when they are in full flower, without the 

come when the flower-markets of London will be supplied in this way, from 

distant country nurseries, by means of the railroads. The Portsmouth rail- 

Goldworth. It would then be easy for Mr. Waterer and Mr. Donald to sup- 

ply London with magnificent specimens. 

handsome vases of Maltese stone placed along the sides of the 

main walk, and on the coping of the wall of the basin; but 

very common error even among architects ; and it is not, there- 

fore, surprising to find it general in gardens and garden scenery. 

of a character of art, between a highly artificial article like a 

vase, and mere turf, dug ground, or even the plain coping of a wall. When 

( fig. 67. a), but pedestals ( fig.68. 6); with or without 

67 linths at the base (¢), according to the richness or simplicit 

a RB g peerey 

Z — St. Cloud, near Paris, on a féte day, will probably recollect 

C the vases on the margins of the basins there. All of them 

have plinths, like the one shown in fig. 67. p. 214. Vol. IX. 

‘ Asa general guide for the gardener, in this and in all similar 

a of art should be set down on the ground, in gardens or 

pleasure-grounds, or among natural scenery, without some 


and Suburban Gardens. 327 
68 


CEG BAIDISSSSSS. kind of artificial preparation or substructure. It would 
not only be revolting to good taste to see a statue set 
on the bare ground, but even a bench or seat which 
had the character of being fixed, or even comparatively 
so; such, for example, as the benches in Hyde Park 
and in Kensington Gardens. There ought always to 
be a visible foundation of masonry under the legs or 
supports of such benches. No garden wall, no front 
wall of a hot-house, no wall even of a pit, unless, in- 
deed, it is a turf wall, ought to rise abruptly from the 
ground without showing a plinth or basement. This 
basement may be produced by a set-back of even a 
quarter of an inch, which would neither create addi- 
tional expense, nor impede, in the slightest degree, the 
training of wall trees. Persons connected with building 
and gardening, whether in the way of employers or 
employed, have much to learn in matters of this kind ; 
and greatly will their enjoyment, from looking at 
architectural objects, be increased, when their minds are 
once imbued with this description of knowledge. 

In some of those interesting architectural recesses which were formed in the 
garden walls here, by Sir John Vanbrugh (about 6 ft. wide, 2 ft. deep, and 
about 5 ft. higher than the general height of the wall), Mr. M‘Intosh has 
planted Coe’s golden drop plum, with the intention of covering the front of 
the recess with glass or mats after the fruit is ripe, in order to ascertain how 
long it can be preserved on the tree fit for use. In the culinary hot-houses we 
found, as usual, excellent crops of pines and grapes. When we last went 
through them, on the 23d of August, 1830, we saw an Enville pine plant, 
eighteen angi is old, with a fruit 18 in. in cir Came ence, and 13 in. high. Mr. 
M‘Intosh then promised to send us an article on the advantages of cultivating 
pines in hotbed frames rather than melons; and which article we still expect 
to receive from him. In the plant stoves there was the most healthy and 
vigorous vegetation; and among the rare plants was Omalanthes populifolia, 
of which there are only one or two other specimens in the country. There are 
here the male and female Testudinaria elephantipes. The orchideous epiphytes 
are very luxuriant; and Calanthe and Oncidium, with Gongora and others, were 
in flower. Quisqualis indica (now in bloom, and perfuming the house with 
its fragrance), Mr. M‘Intosh informed us, retains the freshness of its flowers 
longer in crowded rooms than any other plant he knows, and is not liable to 
drop its petals. It may be used (he says) a second and even a third evening ; 
and there are but very few other plants, except the everlastings, that can be used 
more than one evening. The Caméllia, however, when not too fully blown, 
will sometimes retain its petals two evenings. Dr. Courtois, who visited 
Claremont in 1833, says, of this plant of Quisqualis, and one of Poivrea 
coccinea in the same stove, that their garlands, intertwmed, presented to him 
a most enchanting sight: the one, by its plumes of scarlet flowers nearly a yard 
long; and the other, by the abundance and sweetness of its blossoms. (Ma- 
gasin d@’ Horticulture, No. x.) 

Along the front of this hot-house there is a border of sandy heath soil, in 
which are planted a great many Cape and other bulbs, and various green-house 
plants, with a view to prove their hardiness. Mr. M‘Intosh has promised us 
a list of those which he finds will stand through the winter; among them we 
found Lodsa nitida in bloom, and not in the slightest degree injured in its 
foliage. In a pit, we were shown the cochineal insect thriving on plants of 
Opintia cochinillifera: it had been tried on the allied species without success. 
Here Mr. M‘Intosh has propagated Bignonia grandiflora successfully from 
single eyes, exactly as is done with the common vine: a fact worth knowing 


vf 


ix 
+ 


i‘, 


328 Cails at Nurseries 


by nurserymen, who generally propagate it by cuttings of the roots, or by 
layers. There can be no doubt that many plants, more especially climbers and 
trailers, may be similarly propagated. We would suggest to nurserymen who 
have arboretums, to try pots of buds of every species whatever, deciduous or 
evergreen, resinous or non-resinous; burying the bud from a fourth of an inch 
to one inch, according to the diameter of the shoot to which it is attached. 
Some buds ought to be put in during the autumn, others in the spring ; some 
in young wood, others in old wood; some, such as those from the young 
wood, forwarded, immediately after they are put in, by artificial heat; others, 
kept several weeks or months in the cold, and afterwards so forwarded; 
others, and, perhaps, the greater number, might be put in under hand-glasses, 
and left to the influence of the seasons. We are still in the infancy of our 
knowledge as to the extent to which propagation by buds and cuttings may be 
carried by art. We have always recommended the young gardener to adopt 
it as a principle, that every bud may be rendered a plant ; and that all plants, 
whether originated from buds, cuttings, or seeds, are essentially the same in 
point of natural properties, susceptibility of duration, propagation, &c. We 
know that, in this opinion, we differ from high authorities, and we acknow- 
ledge that there are numerous anomalies and exceptions; but we have almost 
all the Continental physiologists on our side,and also some of the first botanists 
and cultivators in this country. 

Among the green-house plants we found a large specimen of Lambértia 
formosa, in flower; a new Hakea, 47 sorts of Sempervivum, numerous me- 
sembryanthemums, aloes; and, altogether, we believe, the best collection of 
succulents in England. Many of these Mr. M‘Intosh collected during the 
eight months which he lately spent at the palace of Lacken, near Brussels. 
While there, he (by the kind permission of King Leopold) visited all the 
principal private and public gardens in the Netherlands ; and we only wish that 
we could persuade him to give us some account of them. 

Among a fine collection of alpines, we found Azalea procimbens, Linnee‘a 
borealis, Cérnus suécica, and such like rarities, in great vigour ; and Sarracenia 
purpurea finely in bloom. 

Leaving the kitchen-garden, after having inspected the recent addition to Mr. 
M‘Intosh’s garden library of a considerable number of French books (several of 
which he has most obligingly lent us to review in this Magazine), we proceeded 
to the mansion by the regular approach. Looking up to the portico, the effect 
is very fine; and we recollect the impression it made upon us, from the same 
point of view, and at the same season of the year, exactiy thirty years ago. 
Looking from the portico over the park, Mr. M‘Intosh pomted out a number 
of vistas which he had opened to the distant country; and also the rings of 
whitewash on the trunks of certain trees, which he had put on to enable hin 
to see and distinguish them from different points of view, so as to determine 
whether or not they ought to be felled, It appears to us that the whole of 
the low part of the park at Claremont may be compared to a pond, and the 
trees to weeds in that pond. The moisture, which has evaporated from all 
the undrained rising grounds, descends, by its gravity, into this basin; and the 
trees, by their number and magnitude, prevent it from being emptied by the 
sun and wind. There is, we believe, but one very small natural outlet to this 
basin, on the east of the village of Esher. This outlet belongs to another 
proprietor, and is also choked up with trees; so that there is no hope of 
removing the malaria from Claremont but by removing the trees from the 
lower part of the park, so as to admit the full influence of the sun and wind. 

The views of the grounds, and of the distant country from all the four 
fronts of the house, have been opened up, altered, and greatly improved, by 
Mr. M‘Intosh ; who has given, at Claremont, as striking proofs of his taste 
and judgment in landscape-gardening, as he has of his skill m horticulture. 
The formation of an underwood of laurels, by laying down the long straggling 
branches of the old plants, so that they now completely cover the surface, is 
one of the most masterly things of the kind that has been done anywhere. 


and Suburban Gardens. 329 


The eye now penetrates deep into the grove over these laurels in all directions, 
presenting, at every step, a new combination of trunks and stems; of tall trees 
and hollies; and of open spaces among them, farther varied by the manner in 
which the light penetrates through the branches above, and glances on the 
shining laurel leaves below. Among the innumerable fine hollies here, there 
is one, with two stems, 70 ft. high. There are groves of cedars of Lebanon, 
some branched in consequence of being planted in open spaces; and others 
drawn up with a clean trunk, from having been surrounded by other trees. 
The clean trunk of one specimen is 100 ft. high. There are many of the 
cedars with clean trunks of 60 ft., which, if now cut down, would saw up into 
as good planking as any larch or Scotch pine. We have before (V. 568.) made 
a similar remark respecting the cedars at Ascot Place. There is a fine hemlock 
spruce, 50 ft. high, and with a trunk 8 ft. or 9 ft. in circumference at the height 
of 4: ft. from the ground. There is a very large cork tree, with a trunk 3 ft. in 
diameter, and the breadth and height of the branches 30 ft. : this tree produces 
acorns every year. There are many large tulip trees, liquidambars, red cedars, 
cypresses, &c.; a Quercus J ‘lex is 30 ft. high, and has a trunk 14 ft. in diameter ; 
several hollies are 60 ft. high, many Portugal laurels 25 ft. high, and numerous 
common laurels, before they were laid down, were 30 ft. high. Many of the 
cedars have trunks from 6 ft. to 12 ft. in circumference ; and one in front of 
the house is 100 ft. high, with a trunk 16 ft. in diameter. 

A fine mossy avenue leads to a prospect tower ; from which the views have 
been lately opened up and much improved by Mr. M‘Intosh. Among the new 
articles introduced in the conspicuous parts of the walks, and generally near 
laburnums, are upwards of two hundred wistarias. Descending to the con- 
servatory, we found it stocked not with ragged orange trees, as when we saw 
it before, but with choice green-house and hot-house plants in flower; it 
being, in fact, the show-house of the place. It was really exceedingly beautiful 
to the eye ; and was filled with the fragrance of a very large plant, 15 ft. high, 
of Magnolia fuscata. The flowers of this plant used to be gathered for per- 
fuming the rooms at Marlborough House, like those of the Chimonanthus 
fragrans. Some of the large acacias in this conservatory were covered with 
seed-pods. On the floor bordermg the walk are sunk stone troughs, so as to 
form hollow panels, which were planted with mesembryanthemums mixed with 
Lycopodium helvéticum : this had a very beautiful effect, several of the mesem- 
bryanthemums being in flower. 

Descending, we found the dried male catkins of the beech swept into heaps; 
and learned that Mr. M‘Intosh collects these, dries them, and preserves them 
for packing fruit. They are as soft as cotton, and do not communicate any 
kind of scent to the fruit. We next came to a glade, rendered interesting 
from the circumstance of the Duke of Newcastle, when proprietor of this 
place, encouraging his servants to play at skittles there, himself sitting in an 
arbour, smoking his pipe, and enjoying their sport. Farther on is a Gothic 
temple, raised to the memory of the Prmcess Charlotte; and in front of it are 
two plants of Cunninghamia lanceolata; which, in 1830, had been there eleven 
years, without protection, and were then the one 7 ft. and the other 13 ft. high. 
They are still im the greatest vigour, have grown at about the same rate, and 
received no care except knocking off the snow, by which operation the tallest 
has lost its leader. Near these plants is an Eriobotrya japonica, 12 ft. high ; 
and a Cistus cyprius, 10 ft. high. In descending to the lake, Mr. M‘Intosh 
pointed out to us several parts of the original plan of Brown, which he had 
restored: a mode of improvement highly to be commended, both in justice to 
Brown and to Claremont. It is seldom that the plan of a grown-up place 
can be advantageously altered; and an unsuccessful attempt deprives it of the 
associations connected with past times. These associations may, at first sight, 
appear to be chiefly connected with buildings; but, in fact, they are still more 
deeply and powerfully produced by very old trees, and especially by old 
exotics. Claremont will be visited for its cedars, its hollies, its laurels, its 
Wistarias, and its other fine specimens, when the present house, offices, and 


330 Calls at Nurseries 


kitchen-garden walls are, perhaps, rased to the ground, or have ceased to 
become objects of interest. 

On the whole, we were much gratified with our visit. The more we know 
of Mr. M‘Intosh, the better we like him; and we feel gratified that so good a 
man, and one of so much taste, should have so good a master, and one who 
can so well appreciate his merits, as the King of the Belgians. 

Goldworth Nursery. — May 16. Mr. Donald’s arboretum has, as may be 
supposed, made great progress since we last saw it in November, 1831. Com- 
mencing with Ranunculacez, we found the plants 20 ft. high, and two atra- 
genes in flower. All the magnolias have stood out perfectly. The four ever- 
green mahonias are now considerable bushes, and two of them promise to 
ripen seeds. Passing rapidly on to Aicer, we found a beautiful variety of the 
common sycamore, with the undersides of the leaves becoming purple, like 
those of the Diospyros. The brooms, and the genus Cytisus, present a fine 
display of blossom, particularly the silvery-looking species of broom from the 
Azores, the Retama, here named Spartium créticum. There is a large col- 
lection of Cistineze, forming brilliant masses of rich colours, relieved by whites. 
Among the Rosacez we found Sorbus nipalénsis, without a single bud ex- 
panded, though the leaves of the British species, and also of every species of 
ash, and of the red and white mulberry, were fully developed. On returning 
to Bayswater on the 21st, we found our own tree of Sorbus nipalénsis in a 
similar state. Its buds opened on the 25th, and the first leaf was not fully 
expanded till June 5., when robinias, and all those trees usually considered 
the latest in England, had made shoots of an inch or two in length, and the 
fruit of the mulberry in the same garden was set. As far as we know, there- 
fore, this is the latest hardy tree in Britain. It retains its fine yellow leaves 
as long as the beech or the hornbeam; and sometimes through the whole 
winter. Its lateness in leafing may perhaps render it a desirable tree for being 
planted among delicate undergrowths, which flower early in spring, such as 
azaleas, many kinds of bulbs, &c. The Hricez, including the heaths, azaleas, 
rhododendrons, &c., next attract attention; and afterwards the ashes, the 
elms, and the oaks. The most beautiful-leaved ash is the Carolinian; the 
yellow-barked drooping ash, a most ornamental tree, of which there is a fine 
specimen in the Marylebone nursery, is wanting to the collection. If we 
might choose among the oaks here, we should fix on Quéreus palistris. No 
deciduous tree can surpass, for singularity and beauty, the horizontal-branched 
elm. The willows include almost all the species contained in the salicetum at 
Woburn Abbey, and were kindly presented to Mr. Donald by the Duke of 
Bedford. Among the pines we found Cédrus Deodara doing well; Larix 
microcarpa, three years from a layer, is now upwards of 10 ft. high, and is 
in all respects as perfect a tree as if it had been raised from seed. The leading 
shoot which it made last year is upwards of 4 ft. in length. There is a com- 
mon larch near it, raised from seed, which has not grown nearly so fast. The 
L. microcarpa is the red larch of North America, where it attains the height 
of 80 ft. It is remarkable for the ponderosity of its timber, which is so great 
that it will hardly swim in water. Its cones are shorter than those of the com- 
mon larch, and its leaves are narrower. Abies Douglassi# has grown faster 
than any of the firs, and here, as everywhere else where we have seen this 
tree, it promises to be amost valuable addition to our resmous timber trees. 

When this arboretum has so far advanced as that the trees begin to blossom, 
it will then be time for nurserymen to think of raising improved varieties of 
ornamental and useful trees and shrubs, by cross-impregnation. We have 
not a doubt that superior varieties of all our common forest trees may be so 
raised; and our opinion is founded on the fact, that this holds good in every 
other description of vegetable production. Nature gives the species, and 
leaves it to man to improve it by cultivation; and of this cultivation, cross- 
impregnation is a most important part. 

To his arboretum, Mr. Donald has added a fruticetum, or, if the term is 
preferred, a pomarium. This contains a dwarf and a standard of all the best 


® 


and Suburban Gardens. 331 


sorts of apples, pears, cherries, and plums. The advantage of mixing the 
dwarfs with the standards is, that the latter are sheltered by the former when 
in blossom ; and that both standards and dwarfs have more head room. Most 
of these trees are in a bearing state. 

A herbaceous ground, arranged on the natural system, has been formed in 
borders exterior to each side of the arboretum; and it contains, though 
newly formed, all the species (with one or two exceptions) enumerated in 
Mr. Donald’s very excellent sheet catalogue. 

Mr. Donald has been very successful in propagating most of the trees and 
shrubs in his collection; so that the trade, and the public generally, can have 
no excuse for neglecting to profit by his public spirit and industry. The whole 
nursery was in the very highest order and keeping. Certain compartments 
are devoted to stools and stocks for grafting on, and these, of course, are 
always under plants of the tree kind; but the greater number of compart- 
ments in which seedlings are raised, and transplanted articles are kept till they 
are sold, are subjected to a regular rotation of, 1. Wheat; 2.and 3. Clover ; 
4, Potatoes or turnips; and 5. to 10. Trees; or some similar rotation. In 
this way the crops, both of farm and nursery produce, are most excellent ; 
so much so, that a crop of clover, in the year 1833, was cut green three 
times in the course of the season, and produced not less than two loads an 
acre each cutting. This clover, which grew upon 1% acre, maintained five 
horses from May 4, till Michaelmas. For the details, see Mr. Donald’s 
account of it in the British Farmer’s Magazine, vol, vil. p, 425. 

Godalming. — May 17. We revisited the three gardens mentioned IX. 480., 
and are promised a view of one, and a ground plan of another, which was 
laid out by Mr. Varden. The one of which we expect to give a view is, both 
in itself, and with reference to the exterior scenery, as perfect a piece of 
garden landscape as can be found anywhere without the aid of a natural river 
or lake. 

Milford Nursery. — Great alterations and improvements are going on here, 
and 74: acres are about to be added. We saw numerous new plants, but we 
shall say nothing of them here, because Mr. Penny has promised us regular 
monthly lists. In the arboretum we found some new species added, and the 
whole looking remarkably well. 

Stroud House, the Misses Perry. — We found this place, as usual, a perfect 
gem of order and high keeping. A bed of peat earth shrubs in front of the 
house is beautifully covered with Hydrocétyle vulgaris, which forms a curious 
evergreen carpet under the azaleas. At Stroud House, the plants of hydro- 
cotyle sprang up of themselves from the peat earth, but the idea of producing 
the same effect by art is worth recording. 

Knap Hill Nursery. — May 19. The azaleas here, Mr. Waterer informs 
us, are about a fortnight earlier than usual, in consequence of which some of 
those sorts which come first into flower suffered a little from the frost. The 
time for the perfection of these early varieties was, however, gone by, and 
we could not have arrived at a happier moment for seeing in perfection the 
greater number of species. No language can convey an idea of the splendid 
masses of colour of every shade of red, pink, orange, scarlet, and yellow. 
Many of the varieties are very fragrant; some bloom without showing any 
leaves; others with a number of leayes; some are of vigorous growth, and 
attain the height of 10 ft. or 12 ft., while others seldom reach aboye 2 ft, We 
measured the corymb of blossom of one piant, and found it nearly 9 in, in 
diameter. Mr. Waterer pointed out a great number of very distinct varieties 
which he has raised from seed, and not one of which has yet received a name, 
There is no way, therefore, by which a person can make a complete collection 
of these beautiful shrubs, but by going down to Knap Hill, and examining 
them while they are in bloom. The magnolias and other Americans pro- 
mise well. The stock of standard rhododendrons is most valuable, and we 
are persuaded that if a number of them were taken up, and put into tubs or 
baskets, and exposed for sale in London, they would be eagerly purchased 


332 Calls at Nurseries 


by the possessors of small gardens. Since this was written, Mr. Waterer has 
adopted this idea, and has sent some most splendid specimens of Kalmia 
latifolia to the Horticultural Society’s Show at the Chiswick Garden, June 10., 
for which he obtained the silver medal. There is a new variety here of Rho- 
dodéndron, raised between R. caucdsicum and R. arboreum: the plants are 
bushes not above 18 in. high, and the flowers, which appear in the open air at 
Christmas, are of a deeper red than those of any other variety. It is per- 
fectly hardy, and ought to be in every nursery, in order that it may be propa~ 
gated and spread over the country in a short time. We have frequently 
praised the hedges here, of thorn, yew, beech, hornbeam, Portugal laurel, 
common laurel, holly, box, &c.; and we have now to mention two screens 
of the hedge kind, planted since our last visit. The first consists of apple 
trees, 10 feet high, trained like pyramids, or rather truncated cones, and 
placed so near together as almost to touch; the second of these hedges is of 
double-blossomed furze, which being planted on fine deep sandy soil, has 
grown most rapidly, and has produced one entire mass of rich yellow bloom. 
Among the deciduous trees we observed a beautiful new variety of weeping 
beech, the foliage of which we can safely say is very much larger, greener, 
and more glossy and beautiful, than that of the weeping variety commonly 
cultivated in the nurseries. It might, indeed, be taken for a different species ;. 
and this circumstance alone proves how much remains to be done in the se- 
lection from seedlings raised accidentally, and from the production by cross- 
impregnation of superior varieties of timber trees, as well as of fruit trees. 
An oak-leaved birch is also a variety, like the beech, newly introduced here 
from the Continent, and which we have not seen in any other British nursery. 
We also saw a distinct species of Yucca, with leaves as large as those of the 
Y. gloridsa, now coming into bloom, which is very early for this family. In 
the deep sand of this nursery, asparagus grows so well, without any manure, 
that Mr. Waterer assured us, that he had seen stalks of it an inch in diameter. 

The Bagshot Nursery, at Bagshot, also belongs to Mr. Waterer. Both 
nurseries were commenced about thirty years ago ; and, in both, the foreman 
of the peat-earth department, who planted the first stools, still continues in 
the same capacity. There is here a good stock of young American shrubs, 
and the ground is admirably situated with respect to peat earth and water. 
It might be made one of the first of provincial nurseries. 

Bagshot Park Farmis, as usual, beautifully cultivated, and most scientifically 
and economically managed, by Mr. Burness. No one who does not understand 
the East-Lothian farming can fully appreciate the merits of the system pursued 
here. All the crops are drilled; and, by the force of bone manure, which is 
drilled in along with the seeds, good crops are raised on the poorest sand. 
Mr. Burness sows the Trifolium incarnatum on his wheat stubbles, covering the 
seed with the harrow, but on no account stirring the ground deeper than 3 in., 
and finds a good crop of clover, either for grazing or cutting in the followmg 
May. The plants were now from 1] ft. to 18 in. in height, and in full bloom. 
This clover was also sown by Mr. Hill, a Northumbrian farmer, in the neigh- 
bourhood of Mr. Donald, and it seems to be considered a valuable addition 
to our British clovers. It is strictly an annual, and will on no account live 
through a second winter. In Mr. Burness’s parlour, we saw the picture of an 
ox of the Sussex breed, five years old, fed on the farm without the aid of oil- 
cake, which weighed 240 stones of 8lbs., contained 30 stones of fat, and 
sold for 60. The painting of this ox was by Mr. Steers of High Wycombe. 
In the farmery are some new sheds for fattening cattle on the plan described 
by Mr. Newall of Dumfries, in our Encyclopedia of Cottage, Farm, and Villa 
Architecture. In the breeding pigsties, Mr. Burness has introduced a con- 
trivance for preventing the mother from crushing her sucking pigs against the 
wall. It is simply a shelf carried round the interior of the sty, about 9 in. 
wide, and raised about 9in. from the ground. This shelf prevents the sow 
from pressing herself against the wall when lying down, and leaves space suf- 
ficient between her and it, for the pigs to pass. This contrivance, and also a 


and Suburban Gardens. 333 


general plan, &c., of these pigsties, will be found in the First Additional Sup- 
plement to our Encyclopedia of Agriculture, now in the press. The dry, poor, 
sandy soil of Bagshot Farm is particularly calculated for being benefited by 
bone manure ; and Mr. Burgess consequently buys a great number of bones. 
The price he pays for them is 20d. a heaped bushel : when ground, they lose 
about a tenth of their bulk, and the price for a bushel of dust not heaped is 
2s. The bones, after being ground, are mixed with equal parts of turf ashes 
or sandy soil, and the mixture is laid in heaps for a fortnight to ferment, before 
being spread upon the soil. The fermentation which takes place is most 
powerful, and, if permitted, it would continue for a great length of time; but 
a fortnight, which is found absolutely necessary, is also found quite sufficient 
to render the compost fit for agricultural purposes. This necessity of fer- 
menting bone dust, before spreading it on the soil, should not be forgotten by 
gardeners, when using it in the composition of vine borders (see Mr. For- 
rest’s practice, detailed in V. 502.), or as a general manure. Perhaps bones 
ground, and mixed with soil, might be found an excellent substitute for tan. 
Mr. Burness has inyented a machine for drilling bone dust along with corn, 
or turnip or other seeds. It may be made to sow six or eight rows at a 
time, and the distance between the rows can be varied at pleasure. This drill 
may be had of Messrs. Cottam and Hallen. In feeding both eattle and sheep, 
oil-cake is frequently given here. Mr. Burness finds that it does not affect the 
flavour of beef or mutton in the slightest degree; but that it totally changes 
the character of the fat of pigs. 

The Pleasure-Grounds at Bagshot Park never appeared to us in such great 
freshness and beauty as they now did. Mr. Toward has made many alter- 
ations and additions since we last saw the place in 1831; and the growth of 
what was formerly planted has assimilated the whole more to the surround- 
ing woods, and taken off that appearance of newness, which is inseparable 
from every garden for a year or two after it has been made. The principal 
addition is an elevated straight terrace walk, finely exposed to the south, and 
sheltered from the north by a laurel hedge. On the lawn, at the bottom of 
this walk, Mr. Toward has formed some beds, on raised panels of turf, in the 
manner of those in the flower-garden at Windsor Castle, which look exceed- 
ingly well from the terrace. An entirely new flower-garden has been formed, 
of an oval shape, with a basin and fountain in the centre, and beds and borders 
so arranged that not one of them could be moved 6 in., without deranging the 
whole figure; a test of perfection in this branch of design, which affords 
a proof that it is thoroughly understood by Mr. Toward. The rosary was in 
a fine condition, without aphides or mildew, and promising abundant bloom. 
The roses being chiefly dwarfs, well cut in every year, and taken up, divided, 
and the soil refreshed every two or three years, the plants grow with such 
vigour that they are not nearly so liable to aphides as standard roses. The 
original flower-garden (see IV. 434., fig. 116. d), in which the beds were 
planted with a miscellaneous assortment, is now replanted with the same 
Species, in the manner in which we think all large flower-gardens like this 
ought to be planted; viz., every bed contains either one natural order or tribe, 
or two or more natural orders or tribes which are closely allied. Mr. Toward 
finds that, in almost all his showy orders fit for use in flower-gardens, there are 
species calculated to come into flower during the whole season ; but, as there 
are some showy tribes in which this is not the case, such, for example, as Pzeo- 
nidcee, he introduces among them annuals or other temporary summer-flower- 
ing plants. Bulbs are introduced into others; but this order of plants is 
but little cultivated here, the family generally bemg in town when they come 
into flower. In the American garden, in the beds of which azaleas, rhododen- 
drons, kalmias, &c., were uniformly mixed together, the families are now in 
groups, and the plants are kept apart in Mr. Garnier’s manner, The beauty 
of this garden, now in its highest degree of perfection, we want words to 
describe. The last improvement which we shall mention is the construction 
of a very handsome moss-house, built from a very beautiful model, designed 


Vou, X.— No, 52. AA « 


334 Calls at Nurseries 


and made by Mr. Toward. This moss-house is executed with great neatness 
and beauty, and Mr. Toward has promised to send us such drawings and de- 
scriptions of it as will enable other gardeners, where labour is cheap, to make 
similar erections. On the whole, we were exceedingly gratified with our visit 
to these gardens; and, in taking leave of them, and of Mr. Toward, we must 
not forget to remind the young gardener of Mr. Toward’s admirable plan for 
forming a herbarium, as described at length in IV. 436., and recommending 
every one who is drying specimens of plants, to take it as a model for their 
preservation. 

Addlestone Nursery. — May 20. Science, order, and neatness characterise 
whatever comes under the direction of Mr. Cree. We found the whole of 
his grounds in good keeping, and obseryed a new description of double espa- 
lier rail, constructed for training peaches, nectarines, and other dwarf fruit 
trees. The direction of the lines of this rail is due south and north, in order 
that both sides may equally enjoy the direct influence of the sun; the height 
of the rails from the ground is about 44 ft., and they are about the same dis- 
tance apart. Each double rail consists of posts of young larch trees, between 
2 in. and 3in. in diameter, with the bark on, and charred at the lower end 
where they are let into the ground; and a top and bottom rail also of young 
larch trees with the bark on. The stoutest description of lath used by 
plasterers is then nailed vertically to the top and bottom rail, and on both 
sides of it; the rails on one side alternating with the spaces on the other. 
These laths are not painted, but, being of foreign fir, and well seasoned, there 
can be no doubt of their enduring a long time. Indeed, it would be much 
cheaper to renew them every seven years, than to paint them twice or thrice 
during that period; unless the paint used were to be gas liquor or tar. The 
larch posts and rails will last an unlimited length of time. bes speciosum 
has here been very successfully propagated, and there is a plant of Schizanthus 
retusus which shows some flowers double, and wholly red. 

Woburn Farm.— We entered this venerable place (now to let, in con- 
sequence of the death of Admiral Stirling), to look at some of the fine old 
specimens of exotic trees. This, however, is not a favourable season for such 
a purpose. Pines, firs, ilexes, hollies, and other evergreens, it is well known, 
look worse at this season than at any other, because they are losing their old 
leaves; and deciduous trees, remarkable for their autumnal foliage, such as 
the liquidambar, of which there is here a very fine specimen nearly 70 ft. high, 
have not yet attained a sufficiently marked hue to distinguish them from oaks 
and acers. Other species, which depend principally on their blessoms for 
their beauty, as the tulip tree, are not yet inflower. The tree which we now 
found in greater beauty than it will be in any other season was a large cut- 
’ leaved alder in front of the house. It is a light airy tree, with deeply and 
finely cut foliage of an intense green. The walks on the high banks overlook- 
ing the river, Chertsey, and an immense tract of distant country, extending 
to Windsor Castle on the one hand, and to Harrow on the Hill on the other, 
are interesting in themselves, and recall many associations to those who, like 
us, know the history of the place. The general impression throughout is that 
of maturity and age. Every tree and shrub is grown up; and only the more 
vigorous-growing sorts of the latter have been able to withstand the effects of 
the shade of the tall trees. All the more delicate shrubs, and almost all the 
flowers, have died away; and no new ones have been planted for the last 
thirty years. The tutsan, the periwinkle, and a few of such hardy plants as 
grow under the shade of trees, remain, to carry back the idea to what has 
been in the way of flowers; while decayed urns, seats, and other architectural 
and sculptural fragments, remind us of the numerous garden ornaments which 
it was the fashion to introduce in the times when these gardens were laid out. 
This want of young trees, and of young plants of every kind, gives Woburn 
Farm a decided character of artificialness, more even than of age; for, in a 
natural wood or neglected plantation of the same standing, for the hundreds 
of old trees that would be there decaying, there would be tens of thousands of 
young trees springing up from seed. This combination of trees of all ages, 


and Suburban Gardens. 335 


in groups of every imaginable form, interspersed with glades, sometimes with 
a rough and sometimes with a smooth surface, occasionally with pools, and 
at other times showing rocks or broken ground, constitutes the great charm 
of forest scenery ; and the finest recollections which we bear with us of Sweden, 
of the interior of Poland, and of the south of Germany, are of scenery of this 
description. Woburn Farm, as it now is, is most interesting as a place to 
visit ; but, as a place to live in, to us it would be intolerable: it is without 
movement; though this may be matter of taste. 

Oatlands. — The road from Woburn Farm to this place, through Weybridge, 
is between meadows bordered by broad ditches, filled with clear water and 
numerous aquatic plants. The scene, being almost without middle or third 
distance, is of a very peculiar, but yet peaceful and beautiful kind. Weybridge 
is a scattered village, made up of comfortable-looking cottages, variously dis- 
posed, and each appearing to have more garden ground than is usual in similar 
villages. Except in the growth of the trees, little change has taken place 
in it since we stopped all night at the inn here, in 1804. We walked down 
to the kitchen-garden, and learned from Mr. Hayward, the gardener, that the 
grotto and the terrace walk, the latter of which we were anxious to see, were 
on no account shown to strangers. The kitchen-garden appeared in good 
order, and there were abundant crops of ripe grapes in two of the pineries. 

Walton, Lady Tankerville. — We visited this place, in the same month, ex- 
actly thirty years ago, when our friend Mr. Richardson, the gardener, had 
only been a few years established as manager. Lady Tankerville’s collection 
of plants was then reckoned one of the best, if not the very best, in the neigh- 
bourhood of London: it has since been surpassed by others with regard to 
the number of species, but by none in the manner in which they are grown, 
or the size to which the palms and other stove plants have attamed. The 
peculiar characteristic of Mr. Richardson’s management is, that he never loses 
a species; and, consequently, we find here a number of green-house plants of 
the last century, some of which, as far as we know, are not to be found any- 
where else, not even at Kew, or at Messrs. Loddiges. The most remarkable 
exotic specimens are the palms, a date having leaves upwards of 30ft. long, 
which, we believe, is larger than their size in their native country, and an 
E'late sylvéstris, with a stem 20 ft. high, and having larger foliage than we 
think we have seen elsewhere. There is a Corypha umbraculifera with 
leaves 12 ft. in length, and a stock 14 ft. in diameter. A banana has abun- 
dance of fruit ripe at the upper end of the spike, and the terminating blossom 
just expanding. There is a remarkably large Zamia pingens, with the leaves 
extending about a yard on every side. Among other curious points in the 
history of this plant, we were informed that Bonaparte offered a hundred 
guineas for it for the collection at Malmaison. It is a female, and has 
borne fruit and ripened seeds, which were, of course, imperfect. The seeds 
were edible, but not good. A fine drawing of this plant, with sections and 
details of its flowers and fruit, was made, some years ago, by Mr. Chandler, 
jun., Mr. Richardson’s son-in-law, and engraved on an imperial folio sheet at 
the expense of Lady Tankerville. Mr. Richardson informed us that one of 
the ladies of the Tankerville family was the first to cultivate seedling varieties 
of heartsease, which she did in a small bed in the shape of a heart; and he 
has since continued to raise new sorts, and to maintain a very excellent col- 
lection, notwithstanding the singularly dry sandy soil of the whole place. In 
this soil the common thyme is found to make beautiful edgings to walks; and 
the asparagus to attain an enormous size and most superior flavour. Passing 
on to the American garden, we found the azaleas, rhododendrons, andro- 
medas, &c., of enormous sizes, covered with bloom, and harmonising well with 
the high trees by which they are surrounded. There are here some large 
magnolias, a Judas tree between 20 ft. and 30 ft. high, a Pinus Cémbra, 35 ft. 
high, and the largest Halésia diptera (20 ft. high) in the neighbourhood of 
London. In other parts of the grounds are Juniperus virginiana with a trunk 
2ft. in diameter and 40 ft. high; Z‘lex opaca, 25ft. high; Astmina triloba, 

AA 2 


336 Calls at Nurseries 


15 ft. high; Magnolia tripétala, 30 ft.; Tamarix germanica, 30 ft.; Camellia 
viridis (the green tea), forty years old, and 8 ft. high; A’Inus laciniata, 2 ft. 
in diameter; Cupréssus sempervirens, 25 ft. high; Baxus balearica, 10 ft. 
high; 7'flia alba, Quércus Cérris, and Q. rubra latifolia, each about 60 ft. ; and 
the U’Imus glabra of Miller, or Scotch elm, 80 ft. The portion of smooth 
lawn, varied by fine groups of old trees, which lies on the river side, has an 
undulating surface ; and, whether regarded for its interior beauties, or for its 
views up, down, and across the river, is most beautiful. A part of the bank 
along the water is particularly prolific in spring flowers; and this Lady Tan- 
kerville never has mown with the rest of the lawn till June, lest these flowers 
should be destroyed. This amiable trait reminds us of a lady in Lanarkshire, 
near the Falls of Clyde, who has the cowslips in her lawn taken up with balls 
whenever it is mown while they are in flower, and carefully reset in their 
places after the scythe and the broom. Besides the many fine specimens of 
trees and shrubs on the lawn at Walton, there is a small oblong grove, chiefly 
of limes, the branches of which, on every side reaching to the ground and ex- 
cluding the light, give to the interior the appearance of a cathedral, with a 
rich roof of tracery. There are two distinct varieties of the scarlet oak, and 
near them a very fine tree of the Turkey oak, which, on this deep sandy soil, 
is found to grow much faster, and to make a taller straighter tree than either 
the common oak, or any other speeies of the genus. The Turkey oak, Mr. 
Richardson thinks, ought to be generally planted instead of the common oak. 
Its timber, we believe, is somewhat coarser in the grain, and perhaps not quite 
so durable; but it is a tree of much more rapid growth, and generally contains 
most of its timber in a straight trunk; while the common oak is proverbial 
for the size of, and consequently quantity of timber in, its lateral branches. 

_ Two circumstances struck us, in the course of this tour, which it may not 
be out of place to mention. The first was the high price of human food of 
every kind in the country, compared to what it is n London, or its immediate 
vicinity. House and garden rent is undoubtedly considerably lower; but by 
no means to such an extent as to compensate for the difference in the price of 
food. We see in this the main cause of the great increase of London. Who- 
ever has a moderate income, from rent, or savings of any kind, can have more 
enjoyment there for the same money, than he can have any where else in the 
island. Hence London will go on increasing till it is many times its present 
size; and, if the system of roads or streets, supply of water, sewerage, lighting, 
and (what soon, we have no doubt, will take place) heating by public com- 
panies, public gardens and places of recreation, general municipal government 
and police, are properly attended to, we can see no possible disadvantage that 
would result, if the metropolis were to extend to Lowestoff on the one hand, 
and to Liverpool on the other. Supplies would then be received from Ire- 
land and North America, on the west, and from the shores of the Baltic and 
the Mediterranean, on the east, and distributed over the interior by means of 
railroads and locomotive engines. 

The next thing which struck us was the great variety and beauty of which 
the public roads are susceptible; in some places by the improvements of the 
proprietors in building and planting, and in other places by the unenclosed 
margins of turf, of irregular width, sprinkled with trees. There are some fine 
examples of this kind of road about Woking, and thence to Guildford. We 
could uot help regretting that, in some places, these marginal strips of waste, 
as they are called, have been enclosed by fences brought as near the road as 
the law will permit; thus reducing the road to a broad lane, which is neither so 
soon dried after rain as when it is left open, nor so light for the traveller in a 
dark night. The strips thus enclosed are frequently planted, and, in that case, 
the effect on the road is much worse. We have seen enclosures of this kind made 
and planted on the outside of park walls; a mode of proceeding which appears 
particularly ungracious towards the public, on the part of those who have 
already so much. Far more becoming conduct in a wealthy proprietor, who 
took an interest in the beauty of his country, and sympathised with the en- 


and Suburban Gardens. 337 


joyments of the generality of mankind, would be, to grant from those parts of 
his estates which lay along the public road, narrow strips of land, which might 
be partially planted, or otherwise rendered available to public ornament and 
enjoyment. As the minds of proprietors become enlarged, and as public 
spirit and benevolence take the place of selfishness and exclusiveness, we are 
persuaded that acts of this kind will become frequent both in town and 
country. Why should not a wealthy man, who possessed a cluster of houses 
in a crowded part of London leave them to be taken down when their leases 
expired, and the surface kept as an open grass plot for ever? Why should 
not patriotic noblemen, all over the country, set back their park walls fifty or 
a hundred feet or yards, and leave the intervening space as a shady public 
walk? Why should not wealthy proprietors, who have no immediate heirs, 
leave now and then a park or villa near a large town, as a legacy to that town, 
to be kept for ever as a public garden? We are persuaded that many persons 
only require ideas of this kind to be suggested to them. Whether the current 
of a man’s feelings takes a generous or an ungenerous direction is often a 
matter of accident; but not so the result, as to his own happmess. 

Wimbledon House, Mrs. Marryatt. — May 28. This residence, consisting of 
an excellent mansion, and grounds to the extent of nearly 100 acres, first became 
celebrated about half a century ago, when it was the property of Bond Hop- 
kins, Esq., a wealthy banker. It was afterwards purchased and enlarged by 
the late Joseph Marryat, Esq.; and it was greatly improved by that gentle- 
man. It is now in the possession of his widow, who continues to spare no 
expense in enriching and adorning the place, and more particularly in pro- 
curing the rarest and most beautiful plants. 

On passing through the house to the back front, the first thing that strikes 
the stranger is a magnificent panoramic view, consisting of the park scenery, 
including many large beech trees, some old oaks, a few cedars of Lebanon, 
many very fine evergreen oaks, some pines and firs, and a beautiful piece of 
water in the foreground. ‘The stranger, after this striking view, turns to the 
left to the flower-garden, or to the right along a shrubbery walk of upwards 
of amile in length, which makes a tour of the place, and shows off both the 
exterior and the interior scenery to the greatest advantage. We took the di- 
rection of this walk on June 7. 1828, and, passing through a grove of ever- 
green oaks of large size (some of them with trunks 24 ft. in diameter), we left 
on the right a rural fruit-garden, planted with the summer fruits, such as the 
gooseberry, strawberry, raspberry, cherry, &c., to be gathered by young people 
and consumed on the spot, as in the cherry-garden at Hylands. (III. 385.) 
Adjoining the evergreen oaks were a large cork tree, a very fine Ligtstrum 
lucidum, common and Portugal laurels, a fine red cedar, a Rhododéndron pén- 
ticum 97 ft. in circumference, large silver firs, and some singular masses of ivy. * 
Farther along the walk, we have a distant view of Westminster Abbey and 
St. Paul’s, with Lord Spencer’s park, including a beautiful sheet of water, in 
the foreground, and the Thames, from a seat under an immense beech tree, 
one branch of which, partly pendulous, measures. 75 ft. long. Quitting the 
long route which leads through a rustic gate on a slight eminence, we arrived 
at a very spacious, ivy-covered summer-house, furnished with a large table 
and matted seats, and capable of accommodating a party of twenty. This 


* A small but interesting garden, stored with British plants, and conducted 
solely by Miss Marryat, now (June 4. 1834) exists to the right of these, and 
at the end of the rural fruit-garden. In a little dell, between the silver firs, 
where, from the shade, the grass had scarcely lived, and where water, after 
heavy rains, collects, the gardener has so enlarged a small clump of rhododen- 
drons which he found existing there, as to cause it to fill, in good part, this 
dell; and it is delightful to see the vigour, and the health, and the beauty, in 
their flowers, though these are now declining, which these plants display. 
Mr. Redding has raised many seedling rhododendrons, and, like others, finds 
considerable variety in the flowers of the seedlings. —J. D. 

AA 8 


338 Calls at Nurseries 


overlooks a beautiful serpentine piece of water, richly wooded, and overhung 
by weeping willows, where wild fowls dwell in peaceful retirement, and which 
is termed “the Wilderness.” Descending from this we passed the water head, 
which has a rocky cascade studded with alpine plants, and ascended, through 
the shrubbery (which bounds Lord Spencer’s park), to the grotto which is 
situated at the termination of a creek of the main sheet of water (of seven 
acres). This grotto was formed by Bushell, who constructed the grottoes at 
Oatlands, Pain’s Hill, and other places, and who was the most celebrated 
grotto and cascade artist that ever appeared in England. The grotto at Pain’s 
Hill, constructed for Bond Hopkins when he was proprietor of that place, is 
considered his chef-d@euvre. Bushell’s son is said still to follow the same 
business. 

Passing through a wood of forest trees, we next came to a light iron bridge, 
which communicates with the embankment of the large piece of water. Near 
the iron bridge are an immense pollard oak, some centuries old, covered with 
ivy, anda very large Magnolia acuminata, the first plant of that species brought 
to England by Fraser. There are two islands on this lake: one containing 
baths, &c.; and the other the remains of an enriched Gothic building, which 
was used as a Catholic chapel by the Prince de Condé, who resided here be- 
fore the place was purchased by Mr. Marryat. After crossing the iron bridge, 
we proceeded through the farmyard, and a complete poultry yard, &c., to 
the kitchen-garden, in which, in 1828, we observed, for the first time in Eng- 
land, a compartment devoted to the culture of maize as a culinary vegetable. 
The plants were placed in groups of four under a hand-glass; the groups, or 
hills as they are technically called, being four or five feet apart every way. This 
is done in May, the plants being raised in a hotbed; and in June, when all dan- 
ger from frost is over, the handglasses are removed. The plants are earthed 
up two or three times in the course of the summer. They produce mag- 
nificent masses of shoots and foliage, and abundance of ears, first from the 
main stems, and afterwards in succession from the larger and smaller side 
shoots, from the beginning of July to the end of September. These are 
gathered when the grains are in a milky state, and fried or boiled, and eaten 
with melted butter. In the south of France, and, we believe, in America, the 
ears are gathered when the seeds are in a more advanced state, and, being 
boiled with milk, form a dish like what is called frumenty in England, or brose 
or knotty porridge in Scotland. 

We now enter the hot-houses, two of which are devoted to grapes, one 
large central house to green-house plants, and a third large house to plants 
from the tropics. The forcing of peaches, cherries, and strawberries, and all 
the other descriptions of forcing, together with the rearing of reserve plants 
for turning out into the flower-beds, supplymg deaths, &c., and the nourish- 
ment of sick plants, are carried on in a division between the kitchen-garden and 
the farmyard, termed the melon ground, expressly devoted to that purpose. 

tn the plant-stove we found, in 1828, a plant of Psidium pyriferum in a 
pot, which had borne from sixty to a hundred fruit, as large as crabs, and 
as good as any Mrs. Marryat ever tasted in the West Indies, or as Mrs. Bow- 
dich, then present, had ever eaten in Africa. In the botanic stove, Caraguata 
lingulata, a new species, raised from seeds presented to Mrs. Marryat by Mrs. 
Bowdich, was then coming into flower for the first time in England. We 
noted many fine specimens both in the hot-house and green-house; but we 
pass on through the flower-garden to the house. In the flower-garden 
we noticed a fine basin with a fountain, surrounded by rockwork and choice 
plants ; and two covered walks, the one on the east side and the other 
on the west side of the garden, both in the direction of north and south, and 
one covered with laurels and other evergreens for winter, and the other 
with roses and honeysuckles for summer. One side of this flower-garden 
is bounded by a wall, on which are many half-hardy exotics, and among them 
a fine specimen of the silk tree, a pomegranate which bears fruit, and fine 
plants of Wistaria, Chimonanthus, Edwardsia, &c. The area of the garden is 


and Suburban Gardens. 339 


distinguished by the number and richness of its masses of flowers, and the 
characteristic merit of the gardener in his being able to keep up a succession 
of flowers in every bed throughout the whole season. We were particularly 
struck with the masses of roses, the flowers of which were following those of 
different white narcissi, the latter having been in bloom before the roses were 
in leaf. We found masses of florists’ bulbs ready to be removed, or to have 
pots of rapidly growing green-house plants inserted among them, so as to 
cover the bed in a short time. Crocuses, snowdrops, hyacinths, &c., were 
succeeded by mignonette; and crown imperials, fritillarias, &c., by pelargo- 
niums, fuchsias, &c. Some of the finest masses we saw in 1828 were those 
of Czackia Lilidstrum; Linaria alpina, which was growing most luxuriantly 
on a cone of white flints, and covering them with its sea-green leaves and 
purple blossoms; Erdodium malachoides, rare and beautiful; Papaver nudi- 
caule, numerous new varieties raised from seed; Erythrina Crista galli; masses 
of Cistus, and of Helianthemum on rockwork, numerous varieties; Célchicum 
autumnale, alternating with Crocus vérnus; Gladiolus cardinalis; pelargo- 
niums in great variety; heliotropes; Alonsoa, &c. Sprinkled over the lawn 
are several choice exotic trees and shrubs; and there are, besides these and 
the flowers, some beds devoted to peat earth plants ; and, in the lower part of 
the garden, beds of Azalea, Rhododéndron, Kaélmia, &c. Besides numerous 
standard roses, there is a bower or tent formed by a circular arcade of fes- 
toons, and by other festoons from the circumference to the centre. The 
whole being of stout wire, nothing is seen but the roses. These consist of 
innumerable varieties of the Indian roses budded on the Rosa arvénsis, so 
that the whole is covered with bloom from the beginning of May till the com- 
mencement of frost. From this garden we proceed along a straight walk to 
the old flower-garden, the orangery, and the conservatory; the latter adjom- 
ing the house. Thus far as to our visit of June 7. 1828. On our present 
visit (May 28. 1834:), we took the leit-hand road from the lawn front of the 
house; and, passing a large catalpa, Cratee‘gus cordata, a scarlet horsechest- 
nut, a salisburia, and some groups of rhododendrons, azaleas, and some other 
American shrubs on the left, and some fine cedars and spruce firs, with their 
branches sweeping the ground, on the right, we arrived at the orangery above 
mentioned. The walk through the old flower-garden has received the ad- 
ditional decoration of a handsome row of vases, on plinths, on each side; and 
. the straight walk mentioned above, which leads from the old flower-garden to 
the new one, is buttoned, as Horace Walpole would have expressed it, with 
green Chinese flower-pots, containing ornamental plants in flower. On enter- 
ing the flower-garden, we found it increased in extent, and, if possible, in 
beauty. The first thing which struck us was the same bed of Czackia Lili- 
Astrum, now in full bloom, as it was in 1828, on June 7.; a proof that this 
season is at least ten days earlier than the same season of that year. We 
found many new beds added, particularly some of peat earth, containing select 
American plants, and the newest azaleas. In two borders, one along the 
laurel arcade, and the other in front of a range of hot-houses, are a number 
of new plants, introduced from Italy last year by Mrs. Palliser, Mrs. Marryat’s 
daughter. Several of these are now coming into flower for the first time. 
We have been favoured by Mrs. Palliser with a list of all the kinds introduced, 
whether by plants or seeds; and it includes not only the kinds now living, but 
those which have not vegetated, or have vegetated and have since died. 
One species of Vicia deserves particular mention, as likely to become a 
forage plant. As a proof of its hardiness and earliness, it has been in 
bloom here all the winter; it is now almost out of flower, and the lower 
seed pods are beginning to ripen. Two or three seeds of this species (V. 
tricolor), with which we were favoured, we have sent to Mr. Gorrie, who 
will prove its worth with reference to the climate of Perthshire; and we shall 
have other opportunities of sending seeds to other agricultural experimenters. 

The beds of roses struck us as particularly luxuriant: some of them con- 
sisted entirely of Scotch roses, and others were only bordered with th .t 

AA 4 


340 Calls at Nurseries 


species. The roses on the tent and the covered walk, and also the avenues 
of standard roses, were remarkably free from insects ; a result which is obtained 
by hand-picking. Along the bottom of the garden, there is a broad border of 
rockwork, devoted to the culture of ferns and other rock or wild plants, or 
plants that love moisture or the shade. A bed of Lupinus polyphyllus was 
very splendid; that of Papiver nudicaile, varied and beautiful; Papaver 
bracteitum made a fine appearance in different beds and borders; and along 
the margins of several masses the heartseases were most brilliant. Masses of 
ten-week and of Brompton stock, of ranunculus, of clarkia, of eschscholtzia, of 
yuccas, of petunias, of schizanthus, and of a great number of other articles, 
deserve to be here mentioned; but we refer to Mr. Denson’s account, dated 
June 4., and immediately following these notes. 

In returning to the house, we saw, in the adjoining conservatory, the tac- 
sonia, in festoons over the paths, covered with bloom and ripe fruit. The 
latter are globular, and about the size and colour of large golden pippins.- 
We did not enter the kitchen-garden, nor walk round the shrubbery. The 
walks in the flower-garden were well gravelled, and just as we could wish 
them; the beds were also full of earth; and the turf edges of both were not 
cut with a spade, but clipped. In short, these two material points were en- 
tirely to our taste. 

The following list includes the names of rare species of plants which Mrs. 
Palliser has introduced, by seeds, &c., from different botanic gardens in Italy, 
into the garden of Mrs. Marryat. Those starred, Mrs. Palliser deems to be 
new to Britain : — 

Airépsis *pulchélla Zenore [this is registered in 1X. 240.]; A’llium *multi- 
bulbiferum, *cilidtum Cyr. [this is the subhirsttum G. Don], *Cupant Ra- 
finesque, controvérsum, roseum, violaceum, tenuifolium Ten., pusillum Cyr., 
&c.; Althea *sylvéstris Briganti, Alyssum orientale Lin., Amphérephis 
*aristata Kunth, Anchusa *arvalis, Angélica *nemordsa Fen.; Antirrhinum 
siculum Gussone, *jamaicénse Fisch., capitatum Pres/; A’rabis colina var. 
rosea Ten. [it is probable that this is the A’rabis rosea of Bot. Mag. t. 3246.]; 
Atriplex *polysperma Yen.; Basélla ramosa Jacq. [this has flowered, and 
borne red berries; the plant is about 4 in. high]; Borkhatsia leontodonoides, 
from the botanic garden at Turin ; Calandrinia *procimbens Moris ; Caléndula 
*arragénica, from the botanic garden at Turin; Campanula Alpini, divérgens, 
*lunarizefolia, perfoliata, obliquifolia, stylosa, *pulchérrima Schrank [O, 1 ft. 
high, flowers in June, corolla blue], *fragilis [dead], *Cavolini, and *garganica 
fan interesting prostrate species, of numerous flowers; corolla blue], (the 
last three are among the most beautiful of the dwarf Neapolitan Campanula- 
eez ; and, of each, it should be remarked that there are a smooth and a hairy 
leafed variety. M. Tenore has also another handsome new Campanula, 
named * Rosan?, which he has not hitherto been able to increase); Capparis 
sicula Duhamel, Cineraria gibbosa Guss.; Colchicum *Bivone Guss., neapo- 
litanum ; Collomia *pinnatifida, Convélvulus *Imperati, Cérchorus *tridens ; 
Crocus *Thomasi Ten. [this is registered in Sweet’s Hort. Brit. p. 596.], 
*longiflorus Raf., *Imperati Ten. [in Sweet’s Hort. Brit. p.596.], *albiflorus ; 
Delphinium *anémalum Hort. Crac., *uncatum Hort. Prag., &c.; Dianthus 
*attenuatus [has, Mr. Redding, jun., told us, somewhat of the habit of pluma- 
rius], Bisignan?, *cérsicus [2 jn. W.], *marsicus, &c.; Diplotaxis apula Jen., 
*patula; Digitalis [*] australis Ten. [y A, 2 ft.] orientalis, &c. ; Draba * Num- 
mularia; £chium *rdssicum [, 33 ft. jnjl. Pa.Li.], Sibthdrpz; Erica ramu- 
losa, *sicula Guss.; Euphérbia *prunifolia, *pyrifolia; Férula *Barreliéré 

*Ten., Galium *adhe'‘rens, Geranium nemordsum Yen. [as well as we recollect, 
this is somewhat in the mode of G. pyrenaicum; but has larger and more 
showy corollas], Globularia salicina; Gypsdphila *collina, *sabuldsa; Heli- 
anthemum Barreliér?, *lz‘ve, Lippi, *obsctrum, &c. ; Heliotropium *Bocconé 
Guss., Helléborus Bocconi Guss., Hibiscus *strigosus Ten., Lavatera sylvés- 
tris Cyr. [can the Althz‘a sylvéstris, named above, be identical with this 7] ; 
Jithospérmum *rosmarinifolium Ten., from the rocks of Capri [a suffrutescent 


and Suburban Gardens. 341 


bushy plant, 1 ft. high]; Zinum *acuminatum, *aquilinum, *decimbens, 
*grandiflorum [14 ft. high; corolla blue], *marginatum, *monadélphum, neryo- 
sum, *nudicatle, &c.; Lupinus *Casentini Guss. [like mutabilis in height 
and growth; corolla blue], Musa *specidsa Ten. [dead]; MJalva *micrécalyx 
Dec., *pulchélla Hort. Prag. ; Morisia *hypoge‘a Moris [this is a little alpine 
plant, with a yellow flower], a new plant from Sardinia; Mandragora *micro- 
carpa Bertoloni, Népeta *racemosa, O’robus *Jordani Ten.; O’xalis [double- 
corollaed] *caprina [is registered in Sweet’s Hort. Brit. p. 103.), *vigila, 
*micrantha, Pidtte, &c. (in all, upwards of thirty species, the botanic gardens 
in Italy being very rich in this genus); Pavonia *venéta Willd., Picris *sca- 
bérrima Guss., Pimpinélla *anisoides; Plantago brutia [the flower scapes 
attain the height of 13 ft.; the species looks, at a glance, like a gigantic P. 
lanceolata], Cynops, &c.; Polygonum *serrulatum Guss., Potentilla Thomasii 
Ten., Ricinus *microcarpus Bertero, Randnculus *garganicus Ten. [is re- 
gistered in IX. 241.; its flower is yellow], Salicérnia *macrostachya Moricand, 
Salvia *leucantha [we learned that the plant bears blue flowers; which case 
shows the name inept, if not applied to this plant in a mistake: this blue- 
flowered kind is & A, and about 3 ft. high], Saponaria calabrica Guss. ; Scabidsa 
*ambigua Zen. [2 ft. au. Pk.], ceratophylla, Columne, rutzefolia, Jimonii- 
folia, &c.; Silene *hispanica Jacq., fontana Ten., &c.; Stapélia *europz‘a 
(found by Gussone in the Island of Lampedusa, the most southern point of 
Europe; and particularly interesting, as being the only European species), 
Tolpis *grandifiora Ten.; Trifolium *dalmaticum, vesiculdsum, &c.; Vicia 
#dasycarpa Ten., *polyspérma Ten. [¥ A or. 3ft. B.], *ferruginea Bess., *tri- 
color Seb.  Macris [Loudon’s Hort. Brit. No. 19258.]; Viola arenaria, *De- 
huhardtz, *gracilis Guss., lancifolia; Verdénica *multicatlis, *flérida. 

Trees. A’cer Lobélii, neapolitanum ; Anagyris *neapolitana Ten.; Cytisus 
*edlicus, found by Gussone in Stromboli; Hakea *lanigera Ten.; Juniperus 
pheenicea (also *inacrocarpa, from Lake Fusaro, but the seeds have not come 
up), Meéspilus laciniata ; Pinus *britia Ten., Pinea, maritima, and halepénsis 
[some, perhaps all, of these were up, in an infant state]; Rhus * Thézera Guss., 
Smilax maurocénsis; Styrax officinalis, from the rocks of Tivoli, where it 
grows abundantly, and whither it is said to have been brought from the East by 
the Emperor Adrian; Spartium *inféstum Pres/; Thuya cupressdides, arti- 
culata, pyramidalis, &c. 

Fruits. Apples: Jannurco, Limoncello, Bergamotto gelato. The singular 
iced appearance of the fruit of the last is said, by Tenore, to be only the con- 
sequence of the intensity of the sun’s rays, as the apples grown in the more 
shady branches of the same tree do not possess it. Pears: Spina del Carpio, 
Angelico, Carmosino, Mastrantonio. Medlar: Mespolo senz’ osso (//éspilus 
germanica var. apyréna), a small species of medlar without stones. Plums: 
Pappacoda, Scaldatello, Scaldatone. The last two are winter plums, resem- 
bling the Impératrice, only white; they hang upon the trees till they are 
shriveled, and keep till February. Grapes: Zibibbo, a small Sicilian grape; 
Lugliese, white and black; Uva del vasto, a large white winter grape without 
stones; Uva di Spagna, large, black, much cultivated at Genoa; Carniola, a 
long white grape ; &c. Fig: Trajano. Black-fruited apricot, and some peaches ; 
also the blue cauliflower, and the black and Roman broccoli. A winter melon, 
which keeps till the spring: the Neapolitans hang them on the walls outside 
their houses. A collection of curious species (or varieties) of orange trees 
from the gardens of Count Camaldali. 

We asked of Mrs. Marryat the names of those species of plants which 
have been figured, or otherwise published, from her collection. The following 
are those which came more readily to mind :— Argyreia spléndens Bot. Mag. 
2628., Hibbértia pedunculata Brown (corifolia Bot. Mag. 2672.), Anagallis 
Marryate Swt., Lupinus pulchéllus Sw. F/. Gar. 2. s.67., Zephyranthes 
carinata Swt. FV. Gar, 2.s.4.; Tacsonia pinnatistipula Swe. Fl. Gar. 2.s. 156., 
Bot. Reg. 1536. a Banksian medal has been awarded by the Horticultural 
Society for specimens of this plant; Stigmaphyllum aristatum Bot. Reg. 1659. 
— Cond, 


342 Calls at Nurseries 


Wimbledon House. — June 4. In the conservatory attached to the mansion, 
the most beautiful of the plants in blossom were the Zacsbnia pinnatistipula 
and the Schizanthus rettisus. The Tacsdnia is eminently endowed with the 
faculty of climbing ; and its branches, now bearing flowers and fruit, have been 
disposed over the light pillars, arches, and bars which support the roof of the 
conservatory; and partly enwreath them, and partly depend from them, in the 
manner of festoons and garlands. The flowers are lovely objects. They are 
large and pendulous, and thus well seen from below: the petals are of a deli- 
cate rose colour, and contrasted by a central ray of violet-coloured linear 
nectaries ; and these surround the stamina and pointal, which project beyond 
them. The fruits, as large as a small orange, and of a pale yellow colour, 
depend on long stalks, and are another charm in the attractions of the plant. 
The flowers of the Tacsdnia are continuously produced from April to 
November. Of the Schizanthus retisus there were some eight or nine 
pots of plants, all nearly a yard in height, and crowned with masses of 
the striking, richly-painted, gorgeous blossoms of this most attractive spe- 
cies. Of Acacia pubéscens (too uncommon, considering its elegance and 
beauty), a fine plant, not now in flower, was attached to one of the interior 
pillars; and of the Acacia decirrens, a fine plant, trained to the back wall, 
was interesting in its beautiful foliage. A plant of the Fuchsia coccinea 
invested one of the pillars, from top to bottom, with a pyramid of thickset 
branches, now abounding in fiower-buds. In a pot was a rather tall but slen- 
der plant of the Cundnia capénsis, just going out of flower. The finest spe- 
cimen of this species in Britain is probably that at Sion; which we had the 
pleasure to see finely in flower, under the care of Mr. Forrest, in September, 
1830. There is also a fine specimen of that beautiful creeper Tecoma austra- 
lis, the old Bignonia Pandore. 

On quitting the conservatory, a lawn adjoining receives us, upon which are 
growing a fine thriving cedar of Lebanon; a Pavia rubra, now in flower; a 
Pavia macrostachya; a Stuarte¢a virginica, now budded for bloom; a fine 
tree of the Salisburia adiantifolia; a large old Kalmia latifolia, and a young 
plant of the Callitris rhomboidea. A plant of the Bengal fldrida rose, here 
tied to an upright support, forms a slender pyramid, 10 ft. high, and has 
commenced its flowering. The flowers are unsymmetrical; but, as they are 
large, double, white, centred with blush, and numerously produced, and the 
kind of a free habit of growth, it must ever be desirable in an ornamental 
garden. The lawn of which we have spoken intervenes the conservatory and 
a long straight walk of gravel between grass and an avenue of young trees set 
back, and upon the grass, beside the gravel, are set, at intervals, large vases, 
in opposite pairs, filled with soil, and planted with various species of plants 
for display in summer. Of the kinds of plants adopted these are some: Clay- 
tonia sibirica, more vases than one of, and this plant is here very beautiful ; 
Lobelia bicolor, and other species; Mesembryanthemum floribindum, spec- 
tabile, cordifolium ; Kalosanthes odoratissima, Helichrysum ericdides, and an- 
other species; Anagallis fruticdsa, Gazania uniflora, and an Alonsoa. The 
experienced in gardening will, from these, conceive pretty accurately of the 
remainder. At the extremity of this walk is the flower-garden, into which 
it leads one at the south-eastward corner. 

The flower-garden contains three acres, including the enclosing boundaries. 
These are, a tall wall to the northward and westward, and a belt of shrubs 
and trees to the southward and the eastward. It is nearly square; anda 
range of houses (consisting of a stove for plants, a show green-house, a stove 
for forcing, and a vinery) occupies part of the northward side; the aspect of 
the houses being, of course, southward. The whole plot of the flower-garden 
declines slightly towards the south. Its plan may be, in a passing manner, 
described as follows :— A large lawn is interspersed and adorned with very 
numerous beds stecked with choice and showy-flowered kinds of plants; and 
with shrubs of beauty and rarity, and various in stature, planted singly on 
it, either quite alone or entwined with some climbing plant, or surrounded 


and Suburban Gardens. 343 


at the foot by a small bed occupied with some pretty-flowered species of plant. 
This lawn is traversed by two principal walks: one from the front of the 
houses to the bottom of the lawn; the other across the lawn, from west to 
east; and, also, by some subordinate walks in other directions. It is blended 
with the boundary belt on the southward by an intervening bank, planted, 
from the eastward end to about the middle, with rhododendrons (that have a 
nearly 3 ft. depth of heath mould provided for them, and have, this year, been 
splendid in flower), and rendered, in its remaining length, a ridge of rude rock- 
work occupied by British plants, some of them in flower. Along the upper 
part of this ridge, a few stumps, cut long, of trees with their roots attached, are 
set, bottom upwards; and about these, severally, is planted ivy, honeysuckle, 
and hop, whose branches will, it is expected, dispose themselves over the pro- 
truding roots in a tressy pleasing manner. The boundary belt on the east- 
ward side is thin enough to allow peeps through it into the park beyond; and 
the garden foreground to this boundary is a broad border stored with species 
of herbaceous plants. Amongst these, Anchusa italica was now in splendid 
beauty; ‘chium réssicum, an interesting species, was in flower, with a stem 
3 ft. high; Smilacina (Convallaria) racemosa, a cluster of stems of, were bear- 
ing several panicles of flowers; Erddium Gussoni was flowering; and Astra- 
galus monspessulanus seeding freely. The westward termination to the lawn 
is a walk, some few feet from the wall, bestrode from end to end with a light 
rustic archwork, which supports a collection of climbing kinds of rose; and 
these, with the archwork, and with tall shrubs which are planted between the 
archwork and the wall, soften the line of termination in this direction. On 
the southward side of the northern boundary, a considerable space of wall is 
left clear of the westward end of the range of houses. This space of wall 
gives scope to the culture of some choice shrubs trained to its face. Of the 
kinds against it, we noticed Sdllya heterophylla, Acacia Julibrissin, Ceanothus 
azureus, Magnolia grandiflora, a species of Passiflora, the yellow pomegranate 
in bud for flowers, the scarlet (double) flowered pomegranate with some 
flowers open. In front, on this space of wall, there is a border of some 
breadth ; and, among the choice species of plants growing in it, we have noted 
these : — Pentstémon specidsus, flowering ; Alstrceméria Sims and Flos Mar- 
tind, the flowers of the latter of finer colour than the flowers of a plant of 
it in the stove; Brodic‘a congésta; Disporum falvum, 2 ft. high, and shows 
flower-buds. This, we learned, flowers annually here, and attains the height of 
3 ft.; and Lubinza atropurpurea, about to flower abundantly. A strip of 
rockwork, about three yards broad, is placed immediately in front of the two 
stoves; but is interrupted in the middle, to leave the entrance to the central 
green-house clear. ‘LPhis rockwork consists of a slightly elevated bank of soil, 
into which stones are partially immersed ; and, in this genial warm site, many 
interesting plants are thriving to admiration. We name a few of them: — 
Célsia cretica, Coronilla ibérica, Tetragondlobus siliquodsus, Delphinium pic- 
tum; a Geranium, from abroad, by the name of argénteum, but very unlike 
the argénteum of some British collections ; Linaria Cymbalaria, white-corol- 
laed ; and Paronychia hispanica (Jllécebrum Paronychia L.), all in flower. 
These are the outlines of the garden; and a walk of comfortable width is 
introduced between them and the lawn: except that the arch-covered walk on 
the westward side is the bounding one; and side arches at intervals, all along, 
allow egress from this walk to the lawn. 

To speak, now, of the plants upon the lawn itself. Of the shrubs, we shall 
name A‘pies Douglasz, more than 6 ft. high; 22bes specidsum ; Sodllya hetero- 
phylla, recently transplanted from the green-house, and its branches trained 
about a surrounding guard of wirework ; Cratz‘gus fanacetifolia, in flower, 
and, twisted about its stem, a plant of Billardiéra scandens ; showing some first 
flowers open, and buds in abundance for successive ones : this plant has stood 
here three winters unhurt. Magnolia tripétala, just going out of flower, but 
retaining petals enough (the natural number of these is from nine to twelve) 
to show that the name tripétala is not an apt one. The noble large leaves of 


/ 


344 Calls at Nurseries 


this species, borne at the tips of the branches, resemble, in the woods of Ame- 
rica (Decandolle has stated), an expanded umbrella; and the Americans call 
the species the umbrella tree: whence Lamarck has proposed to name the 
species Magnolia umbrélla; and the reforming Salisbury, dissatisfied with the 
name tripétala, would name it M. frondésa. Magnolia conspicua, a plant of 
which has this year borne 300 flowers. A plant of savine, 15 ft. in circum- 
ference. A Yucca gloridsa had already a stem of coming flowers protruded 
beyond the leaves. Among the standard roses the Bengal élegans was a per- 
fect picture for buds; its head was trained into the figure of an umbrella, and 
a copious crop of upright buds thickly studded its whole surface. Old stand- 
ards, of a kind presumed to be the white céleste, bore beautiful clear white 
flowers. The boursault, trained into an arch astride a cross-walk on the lawn, 
was brilliant in an abundance of its rich-hued showy blossoms. 

The various shrubs distributed about the lawn greatly promote the richness 
and interest of the garden. Their upward outline gives a second terrace, as 
it were, of verdure and of flowers, the plants beneath constituting the first ; 
and these, here and there (as the shrubs themselves, and the herbaceous 
plants growing below them, may be mutually or reciprocally dwarf or tall), 
are blended, both into a very rich and a varied whole. The rich variety of 
stature, from that of herbaceous plants to upwards, which shrubs and trees 
inherit, renders them eligible instruments, in promotion of this kind of effect, 
to any extent equal to the height of the trees employed. . 

The plants contained in the flower-beds are of showy and choice kinds; 
and are, in their stores of blossoms, the grand fund of the splendour of the 
garden. The principle of disposition which has been adopted is, that of 
planting numerous plants of each chosen species or variety in a mass, usually 
a bed to each kind, with a view to the effect of all the flowers, united, of that 
mass ; and placing the kinds of plants, the colours of whose blossoms most 
assimilate, asunder, in order to give the scene the enrichment of variegation. 
Some beds are consigned to a collection of the species of a genus; and some 
few to a miscellaneous assemblage of plants of various genera. The following 
names of the subjects of some of the beds will illustrate the two former 
cases : — Delphinium elégans flore pléno, now flowering; Gaillardia aristata 
and bicolor, both now blooming; the white double-flowered Provence rose, 
some flowers, the earlier, now open; beds of other kinds of roses: the varie- 
ties of rose, many of them splendid, are in high esteem here; and Mr. Redding 
showed us Rivers’s George the Fourth, and spoke in commendation of the 
‘Wellington. Giflia capitata, finely in flower; Czackia Liliastrum, its flowers 
just declining ; heartseases, now blooming ; Rantnculus asiaticus, some varie- 
ties from Italy, by Mrs. Palliser, now flowering; Phalangium Liliago, the 
abundant white flowers of which supply, and, as successively expanded, will 
for some time supply, the mass of white which the flowers of Czackza Lili- 
strum, now declining, have previously contributed; Salvia fulgens and Gra- 
hami: the plants of both these have stood in the open soil, from last year, 
through the winter, sheltered only by a covering of dry leaves; and all the 
plants have emitted from the base a copious crop of shoots, in promise of 
beauty of flowers in autumn. The broad-leaved species of Statice, not yet in 
flower. A collection of species of Pentsttmon: of these, P. ovatus and P. 
confértus are flowering. A collection of several species of ‘ris, some of 
them in blossom. Several species of Lilium; with some other plants towards 
the edge. Gladiolus cardinalis, and natalénsis in the centre ; both apparently 
recently planted out. Salvia chamzedryoides, Lobelia fulgens, scarlet lobelias 
and Verbena chameedrifolia; pinks ; Ornithégalum latifoliam, now flowering ; 
Salvia angustifolia; Papaver nudicatle, among the plants of which are varie- 
ties each with a corolla of one of the following colours, cream colour, cream 
colour tinted with pink, pale yellow, rich full yellow, salmon’s flesh red, 
deeper red, and a still deeper red. The beds allotted to some of the above 
kinds of plants are not large; and there are beds from 1 yard to 14 yard in 
diameter severally appropriated to such plants as the following : — Bouvardia 


and Suburban Gardens. 345 


triphylla, Veja gracilis, Mesembryanthemum spectabile. One bed or more to 
other species of Mesembryanthemum, as floribindum, adreum, variabile, dén- 
sum, and others; ivy-leaved pelargonium, Linaria alpina. 

There are several beds apportioned to various genera, species, and varieties 
of the spring-fowered bulbous plants; to the cyclamens, Dodecatheon 
Meadia, and the autumnal Sternbérgia lutea. In relation to the beds for 
these, the principle of successive decoration is adopted; as it seems also to 
be, in application to any bed, as the kind of plant inhabiting it may become 
dormant, if perennial; or may, if annual, have finished flowering. A reserved 
stock of plants is kept raised and propagated, in subservience to the desired 
end of causing one passing course of beauty to be succeeded, as soon as well 
can be, by another. The following are some of the kinds employed in this 
service of succession; and, in some cases, more than one of the kinds are 
planted together m one bed: — Lupinus mutabilis var. Cruckshanksianus, 
Eschscholtzia californica, hybrid kinds of Calceolaria, heliotropes ; Clarkia 
pulchélla, red-corollaed and white-corollaed; Gilia achilleefolia, Neméphila 
insignis, kinds of Cineraria or Pericallis, Pyréthrum coronopifolium, Malva 
miniata, Verbena pulchélla, Verbena sulphtrea, Senécio élegans flore pléno, 
the same with the leaf variegated, Alonsoa, Gazania rigens, Tagétes lucida 
and flérida, Calandrinia speciosa, Erythrole‘na conspicua, Lobéla bicolor, 
senecidides, unidentata, and others; Alyssum maritimum, with the leaf varie- 
gated; Moscaria pinnatifida (Gastrocarpha runcinata), Helidphila pildsa var. 
incisa (arabidides Sims); and in addition to these, of course, a selection of the 
more beautiful of the older and universally known annuals. Into the beds of 
roses, Mr. Redding plants the varieties of georgina, which he does not find to 
injure rose plants; one bed of roses was cropped in the intervals with seed- 
ling plants of the Delphinium Consdlida. 

Certain of the beds are edged with wire basketwork, and have an arch of 
wirework over them. These are apportioned to species of climbing plants, as 
Cobce‘a scandens, Lophospérmum erubéscens, Maurandya Barclayana ; Thun- 
bérgia alata, this seems frequently employed; Petunia phoenicea, Tropz‘olum 
majus var. atrosanguineum, &c. 

A band of plants, of each of the four following species, had been disposed 
around as many beds, a few inches within the margin :— Omphalddes vérna, 
Gentidna acatlis, Sansevitra carnea, Andrémeda axillaris; and, in another 
part of the grounds, we saw Vinca minor adopted as an edging under the 
shade of trees; and Meconépsis cambrica forming one, either from intention 
or accident, in a like situation. This plant occurred in many shady dryish 
spots, under trees, beside the walk through the pleasure-ground, where its 
lively delicate blossoms had a pleasing effect. 

Of the species of plants which occupy those of the beds allotted to miscel- 
laneous plants, we noted the following, most of them in flower :—Thermdpsis 
fabacea, Dracocéphalum canéscens, J/alva purpurata, Papaver floribGndum, 
Anthyllis Webbiana, Scutellaria variegata, Cerastium Biebersteini, Galax 
aphylla, Campanula ederacea and pulchérrima, Sarracénia purptrea; Ha- 
benaria fimbriata, not in flower; Arnopogon Dalechampii, Peltaria alliicea ; 
Rhododéndron ferrugineum, white-corollaed, from France; Geranium nemo- 
rosum, and Stenactis speciosa. A plant of Lobélia Tupa, established singly 
on the lawn, had sprouted vigorously; and its stem has here attained (Mr. 
Redding remarked), in some seasons past, the height of 6 ft. ? 

The collection of green-house plants in this establishment is not extensive, 
but select. There are, for their accommodation, the conservatory attached to 
the mansion; a little distant from this, an antiquated conservatory, with a flat 
dark roof, which is now quite empty, but it is probably used to shelter plants 
in winter; the green-house in the range in the flower-garden; and a second 
green-house behind this, at a little distance from it. In the last, the following 
are some of the plants which were in flower : — Prostanthéra lasianthos, a 
fine plant abounding in flowers, which are fragrant; Orthrosanthes multiflora, 
Erica cubica and spléndens; Astélma (Gnaphalium) eximium, in bud; Cal- 


; 


346 Calls at Nurseries and Suburban Gardens. 


ceoliria chiloénsis, Lilium longiflorum, Verbéna vendsa; Pefznia pheenicea, a’ 
variety with its corolla of a delicate paler colour; and Eschschdéltzia califor- 
nica, with double or half-double flowers. This last plant had been received 
from the Earl Mountnorris, who had divided it off a plant which had come 
under observation in his own garden. The fine plant of Araucaria Cunning- 
ham?, possessed by Mrs. Marryatt, had been removed from the green-house to 
the open air, as had some other plants; among which was Anthocércis vis- 
cosa, showing one of its latter, or last, flowers. In a shed contiguous to this 
green-house, there were four very fine plants of Kalmia latifolia, in an exqui- 
site state of blossom; and, in some other part of the premises, we saw, 
flowering freely, a small plant of the white-corollaed variety of this species. 
In the green-house in the range, a selected collection of pelargoniums occu- 
pied a central stage, and were splendid in the “ variegated show ” of their most 
beautiful blossoms. There were here, besides, Gladiolus Colvilli and blandus, 
and some other plants blooming. 

In the stove, the following were the plants most notable : — Rhodochiton 
volubile, a climbing plant, in general habit like a Lophospérmum, but seemingly 
less robust, and remarkable for a red calyx or involucre (as Rhodochiton 
signifies) to its corolla; which seems, in the bud, a miniature of that of Lo- 
phospérmum : this, it is believed, has never before flowered in Britain. Passi- 
flora alata insignis, a kind which Messrs. Rollison cultivated by this name 
two or three years ago, is now a superb ornament to the stove; it has extended 
many yards, and abounds in its showy flowers. This is, most probably, the P. 
pheenicea Lindley, quoted in our IX.619. Poivrea coccinea had been flower- 
ing finely, and, as usual, freely. A plant, called Dracze‘na elliptica, obtained 
from France in 1830, was about to flower: its leaves and rigid habit of growth 
are striking. Murraya exdtica was flowering freely; its blossoms have an 
odour like that of the flowers of Gardénia radicans. These, also, were 
flowering: — Houttuynia cordata, Phyllanthus turbinatus, Strophanthus divér- 
gens, Pitcairnia angustifolia; Crinum americanum, a few last flowers of; 
C. amabile; Alstroeméria Pelegrina, white-perianthed; and Calochdértus albus, 
under tender treatment in acceleration of its growth. Oncidium papilio, the 
butterfly plant, had been flowering; and in the stove for forcing, there was a 
very fine plant of the Cymbidium aloifolium, it displayed two racemes of 
flowers; and a plant of Cattleya Forbesi in bud. 

In the hardy flower-garden there is a small aquarium; and in it, as well 
as in one or more of the pieces of water (one, some few acres in extent) 
in the park and pleasure-ground, Nymphee'a alba was flowering most splen- 
didly. MNuphar advena was also flowering; and we saw besides, in the 
water in the pleasure-ground, A’corus Calamus flourishing, Sparganium sim- 
plex flowering, and A/enyanthes trifoliata not in flower. There appear to be, 
in this demesne, so well-watered, peculiar facilities to the culture of a com- 
plete collection of hardy aquatic plants. We subjoim the names of some 
species which have come to mind; and which, in our hasty glance about this 
lovely place, we did not see. 

Actual aquatics: Nymphze‘a minor, Villarsia nympheeoides, Stratiotes alo- 
ides, Polygonum amphibium (How exquisitely beautiful, through the month 
of June, are the numerous short dense spikes of pale rosy flowers, of this 
common British plant, as displayed just above the surface of the water!) ; 
Jussiz*‘a grandifidra would probably, under the shelter of trees, survive mild 
winters; Calla palistris, Orontium aquaticum, Utricularia vulgaris and minor ; 
Hydrécharis morsus rane; the typhas, these, it is likely, would be thought too 
weedy. ‘The beautiful Butomus umbellatus, which, it is probable, is already 
here; the Sagittaria sagittifolia, probably, also, already here; and to this 
might be added the American S. latifolia and S. latifolia flore pléno. 

A pair of swans inhabit the large piece of water in the park, which forms a 
fine object from the windows of the house. — J. D. 


Fioricultural and Botanical Notices. 347 


Art. V. Floricultural and Botanical Notices of new Plants, and of 
old Plants of Interest, supplementary to the latest Editions of the 
“« Encyclopedia of Plants,” and of the *‘ Hortus Britannicus.” 


Curtis’s Botanical Magazine ; each monthly Number containing eight plates; 
3s. 6d. coloured, 3s. plam. Edited by Dr. Hooker, King’s Professor of 
Botany 1 in the Univer sity of Glasgow. 

Edwards's Botanical Register ; each monthly Number containing eight plates ; 
4s. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Lindley, F.R.S., Professor of Botany 
in the London University. 

Sweet’s British Flower-Garden ; each monthly Number containing four plates ; 
3s. coloured, 2s. 3d. plain. Edited by David Don, Esq., Librarian to the 
Linnean Society. ; 
Facts and Considerations which have a general Relation to Floriculture. — 

Certain species of plants, which, under artificial culture, are usually feeble, 

may be much invigorated by watering them with a decoction of other more 

abundant and robust species of the same genus. This was told to me by 

Forster, Esq., to whom the idea had first (af I have remembered rightly) 

arisen; and who had, by watering the delicate Saxifraga cérnua with a decoc- 

tion of S, eranulata, promoted very obviously vigour in its growth, and increase 
in its size; and the like effect had been produced upon Adiantum C: apillus 

Véneris, by watering it with a decoction of Pteris aquilina (I sl) or 

some other abundant species of fern. — J. D. 

For the names, and brief notices, of some species of plants, Fabiodlnaatl 

from gardens in Italy, see p. 340. For a note on Linum monogynum, p. 356. 


PoLyPETALOUS DICOTYLEDONOUS PLANTS. 


IV. Papaveracee. 


ESCHSCHO’LTZIA crdcea Benth., on which we have quoted information in p. 171., is figured in 
the Bot. Reg. for June, t. 1677. 


Two plants, in the garden of the Horticultural Society, are all that at pre- 
sent exist in Europe. In consequence of its bleeding copiously when wounded, 
it is not likely to bear propagation in any other way than by seed... .. It has 
not hitherto produced any seed in Brita. When the sun shines, the petals 
unclose, and, by their rich colour and velvety lustre, produce an effect which 
is, for brilliancy, unrivalled in the flower-garden. (Jot. Reg., June.) 


PLATYSTE*MON ecaliférnicus Benth., respecting which particulars are quoted in p. 170., is 
figured in the Bot. Reg. for June, t. 1679. 


“ The few seeds it produced have failed to vegetate; and the species is, 
therefore, lost to our gardens.” Dr. Lindley has given, in the place cited, a 
pleasing speculation on the natural affinities of this plant. 

LXII. Aristolochié@. 


2582, ARISTOLO‘CHIA. 
29834a chilénsis Lindl. Chilian 2 Ajcu 6? 5s P.G Chile 1832 ? D sl Bot. reg. 1680 

It is nearly related to the A. glatca of the south of Europe, but is very different in the form of 

its leaves.” 

“« Very common in Chile, whence we have had many specimens gathered by 
various collectors. Mr. Bridges sends it under the name we have adopted ; 
adding, that it is called by the Chilenos ‘ Oreja de la Zoera;’ and that it is 
an herbaceous plant, found in stony places near Valpar. aiso and Quillota. 
The plant is hardy enough to bear our climate, if protected from wet and 
the severest cold in winter. It is figured from the collection of Robt. Bevan, 
Esq., Rougham, near Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk.’ (Bot, Reg., June.) 

LXV. Thymele‘e. 


87. PIMELE*A. 
hypericina Cun. Hypericum-/fd. #%\_]or3 sp W King George’s Sd. 1830. C p Bot. mag. 3330 


An interesting species in its slender twiggy habit, bright brown colour of 
the bark of the older branches, breadth and size (for the genus) of the leaves; 
and the heads, each, of numerous flowers, which crown the tips of the branch- 
lets. “ It has much of the habit and strength of growth of P. /igistrina Lad. 


348 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


...+ When treated as a hardy green-house plant, it thrives vigorously ; and its 
“ flower-heads ” are, in spring, put forth “in abundance.” P. hypericina Cun. 
has been raised, in the Kew Garden, from seeds collected by Mr. Wm. Baxter. 
(Bot. Mag., June.) 

LXXVII. Leguminose. 

COLVI'LLEA Bojer. (The late Str Charles Colville, Governor of the Mauritius.) 10. 1. Sp. 1.— 

racemdsa Bojer grand-racemed @ [_] spl 45 S Madagascar ... Sp.l Bot. mag. 3325, 3326 

Has not yet been introduced to Britain. + It ‘is probably a native of the east coast of Africa; but 

was only seen by Professor Bojer, in 1824, in the Bay of Bombatoe, on the western coast of 
Madagascar, where a single tree was cultivated by the inhabitants. That indefatigable naturalist 
obtained one, which he took to the Mauritius, where it has perfectly succeeded; and we may 
soon expect to add this most ornamental plant to the stoves of our own country. Its flowering 
season in the Mauritius is April and May.’’ 

A splendid species of tree, from 40 ft. to 50 ft. high, with the general aspect 
of Poincidna régia. Branches very long. Leaves alternate; bipinnate, with 
twenty to thirty pairs ; oblong-oval in their outline, 3 ft.long. Racemes from 
four to twelve, 14 ft. long; partly arising from the apex of the branches, and 
partly from the axils of the upper leaves. Flowers crowded. Corollas bright 
scarlet, rather large. Stamens twice the length of the corolla. (Bot. Mag., 


June.) 


Two Varieties of the dark-corollaed Kennédya, of which a notice is quoted, from the Horticultural 
Journal, into our p. 285. ‘* Messrs. Buchanan and Co., Camberwell, have a new Kennédya in 
bloom, which is evidently a variety of the one we figured last month [May: see our p. 285.].... 
The foliage differs in some degree from [that of ] the one raised at Mitcham, and now at the 

*Epsom Nursery; but the flowers are very similar.” (Page 2. of the cover of the Horticultural 
Journal and Florist’s Register for June, 1834.) As we have not seen a previous mention of a 
kind raised at Mitcham, we suppose this last to be also a variety of, and distinct from, the one of 
which an account is quoted in our p. 285. 


Monopetratous DicotyLEDONOUS PLANTs. 
CLXXV. Lobeliacee. 


609. LOBE‘LIA. [Sw. fl. gar. 2. s, 242 

41026 polyphylla Hook. & Arnott many-lvd. yy A! or 43 s D.P Valparaiso 1829. D ltr 

*‘ This, mucronata [see IX. 106.], and Tzpa, from the same country, are very nearly allied ; being 

found to differ chiefly in the proportionate length of the tube of the corolla, the degree of deve- 

lopement of the bracteas, and in the presence or absence of downiness on the stem and leaves. 

L. polyphylla has the largest bracteas, the shortest tube to the corolla, and is almost wholly gla- 
brous.” — D. Don. 


A species “highly ornamental when grown in perfection. A plant [of it] 
which flowered at Boyton [in the garden of A. B. Lambert, Esq.], in the open 
border, in 1832, had several stems nearly 6 ft. high, with the racemes more 
than 1 ft. long. It thrives best in a light rich soil, and is increased by division 
or by seeds.” The figure is copied from a weakly plant, which flowered, in 
Sept. 1833, in the nursery of Messrs. Allen and Rogers. The corolla is 
“ scarcely an inch long, of a dark purple” colour. (The Brit. Flower-Gard., 
June.) 

CC. Polemoniacee. 

499. GI’LI1A. 

achilleefolia Benth.  Milfoil-lfd. © or 123 aud P California 1833. Sco Bot. reg. 1682 

Notice of this species is supplied in IX. 705. “ It resembles G. capitata 
in its foliage, and in the arrangement of its flowers; but its appearance 
[herbage] is much more green, and its habit is dwarfish. The flowers, too, are 
purple, instead of sky-blue.” The corollas are, besides, larger ; and the heads 
of flowers seem larger and less compact. “ It will grow in any kind of soil, 
and produces seeds in abundance; so that it will soon become as common as 
G. capitata itself.” (Bot. Reg., June.) 

CCXI. Scrophularinee. 

65. CALCEOLA‘RIA 27993 purpirea. 

3 picta D. Don painted-corollaed ¢ _Ajorl1su W.P Eng. Garden 1832? DIt.r Sw.fl.gar.2.s.244 

“ An accidental variety of C. purpurea; first raised, as we have been 
informed, by Mr. Wheeler, nurseryman, Gloucester. It differs from C. pur- 
purea in nothing but colour, and the greener hue of the whole herbage. Its 
copious delicate white blossoms [corollas], marked with a broad purple band, 
render it an agreeable addition to the already numerous cultivated varieties of 
this genus. C. purpurea 3 picta requires a light rich soil, and can be increased 


ea 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 349 


only by division.” Mr. Gillen, gardener to Mr. M‘Intosh, at the East India 
Docks, had communicated the specimen figured. (The British Flower-Garden, 
June.) 


Of Lanaria dalmatica, a figure is published in the Bot. Reg. for June, t. 1683. ; where it is deemed 
a yor ¥, 2 ft. to 3ft. high, rather thana w, 12 ft. high. . 


Tt seems to be, when in flower, an attractive showy species. ‘ The shoots 
spring straight from the ground, and rise, with very few branches, to the height 
of 2ft. or 3ft. They and the leaves are covered over with a dense bloom, 
which contrasts agreeably with the deep yellow of the showy flowers ;” which, 
according to the picture, are numerous and large. It is figured from the gar- 
den of the Horticultural Society. 

CCXIII. Solanee. 


NIEREMBE/RGIA filicatilis, of which an account is quoted in p. 176., is figured in The British 
Flower-Garden for June, t. 243. ; where we are taught, in addition, that it is ‘‘a native of Entre 
Rios, a province of Buenos Ayres; and was raised, in 1832, from seeds sent by Mr. Tweedie to 
Mr. Neill of Canonmills. 


Mr. D. Don saw it, in the early part of autumn, 1833, in great perfection 
in the open border, in Mr. Neill’s garden. ‘ The plant requires a soil com- 
posed of peat and loam, in nearly equal proportions ; and is increased with 
facility by cuttings. Figured from the Chelsea Botanic Garden. 


MoNoOcoTYLEDONOUS PLANTS. 


CCXXXVIII. Amaryliidez. 


NARCI’SSUS (Ajax) moschatus has been found wed in the adjoining parish of Meriden; and 
communicated to me by its discoverer, Miss Gresley of that place. It is quitea new plant to the 
British flora, I believe ; and you may announce it as such, if you like. Poor Haworth would have 
jumped for joy at the intelligence, had he still been among us. (Eatract from a Letter from 
Rev. W. T. Bree, Allesley Rectory, near Coventry, Warwickshire, dated May 20. 1834.) 


CCXL. Orchidee. 


2530. CATASEYTUM 22652 tridentatum, three-toothed Zabellumed. i 
2, Flowers larger, sepals and petals acute. 
Syn.: C. Clavering? Lind]. Hort. Brit. No. 22653., C. floribGndum Hook. Hort. Brit. No. 22654. 
3. Sepals broader, labellum yellow, [A] fral ... Y.Br Brazil ... Dp.r.w Bot. mag. 3329 


Figured from a plant which had been given to Mr. C. Horsfall of Everton, 
Liverpool, by Mr. Henry Harrison, who imported it from the Brazils. It has, 
as Mr. Evans, the able gardener, observes, an aromatic smell ; and differs from 
my original C. tridentatum in the larger flowers and much broader sepals. 
( Hooker.) 

4 viridiflbrum Hook. green-flowered &[A]cu 1 .. G Demerara .. D pr.w 

A specimen of this variety, as well as one of the preceding, has been sent 
to Dr. Hooker by Mrs. C. Horsfall. C. tridentatum viridiflorum “ is remark- 
able for the greener hue of the flower, especially of the labellum, and the 
much longer and stronger teeth of the latter. It was introduced, from Deme- 
rara, by William Sandbach, Esq. 

“Tn all’ the varieties of C. tridentatum, “ the elastic nature of the stalk 
of the pollen masses is quite remarkable; in consequence of which, the latter 
are thrown to a considerable distance, and with much force, on the anther 
being removed ; and they then firmly adhere, by the large glutinous gland, to 
whatever body they strike against.” (Bot. Mag., June.) 


2558. BLE‘T TIA. . 
227536 gracilis B. C. slender-scaped YW) pr 13 jl.au Y.R Mexico 1830. Dp.l Bot. reg. 1681 


A “ species very distinct from any previously described.” 

The slender scape bears, towards its tip, three or four flowers, whose sepals 
and petals are of an obscure yellow colour, tinted with a rosy one; the label- 
lum, veined, is rosy at the base and yellow at the tip. JB. gracilis “ requires 
the treatment of B. verecinda, acutipétala, and Shephérd?.” Messrs. Bate- 
man, and the Rev. and Hon. W. Herbert, possess plants of this species ; and 
Messrs. Loddiges, who introduced the species, have figured it in t. 1681. of 
their Botanical Cabinet. (Bot. Reg., June.) See p. 288. 

CCXLVIL. Asphodelee. 


1078. MV LLA. [ Bot. mag. 3327 
uniflora Gah, solitary-flowered % _Jor2dmr W.L _ Buenos Ayres 1832. O pl 


Vou. X.— No. 52. BB 


350 Retrospective Criticism. 


Dr. Gillies discovered it in 1820, Mr. Tweedie sent roots, in 1832, to Mr. 
Neill, in whose green-house, at Canonmills, this species flowered in December, 
1832, and again in March, 1834. Corolla, when expanded, 14 in. across, 
white; marked, from the base of the tube to the tip of the six segments, with 
six dark lines, which are purplish-green behind, lilac in front. This species 
yields, when bruised, the most powerful scent of garlic. (Bot. Mag., June.) 


PLANTS DEVOID oF LEAF AND FLOWER. 


8274, UREXDO 27927 suaveolens Pers. 

Synonyme: Acfdium cardui Sowerby, who has given a figure of it in his Coloured Figures of 
English Fungi, iii. t. 398. fig. 5. 

Early in June, 1883, I observed, in a group of plants of Cnicus arvénsis Sy. (Cirsium arvénse 
Lam.), one plant of a yellow brown hue, and more luxuriant than the rest. It was the subject 
of a parasitic fungus abounding all over it, and with which the luxuriance was doubtless con- 
nected: and hence this luxuriance may be assumed to have been, like that of the leaves of 
Anemone coronaria (described in EV. 19%.), a morbid one. I sent a specimen of the fungus- 
inhabited Cnicus to Mr. J. D. C. Sowerby, who identified the fungus as the Aicidium cardui above 
quoted. This specimen, returned by Mr. Sowerby, gave out a very sweet and grateful odour for 
some months; and, even now (June 11. 1834), may be, on being smelled to, perceived to be fra- 
grant. On consulting Hort. Brit., the only species which seemed to me likely to be identical 
with this is the Urédo suavéolens Pers. ; and Mr. Baxter of the Oxford Botanic Garden, to whom 
a question on its identity has been submitted, has answered it thus : —‘‘ Persoon describes his 
Urédo suavéolens as growing on the leaves of Cnicus arvénsis Sm. ; and I find it abundant on 
that plant in the neighbourhood of Oxford. Mr. Sowerby’s Acidium cardui is said to grow on 
the leaves of Cnicus praténsis Willd., a plant which is also not very uncommon near Oxford 5 
but on which, while in a living state, I have not at present observed any species of fungus to be 
parasitical, May not the word praténsis, in Mr. Sowerby’s work, be a misprint for arvénsis ? 
especially as the bit of a leaf represented at t. 398. fig. 5. bears a greater resemblance to the foliage 
of Cnicus arvénsis than it does to that of C. praténsis. Specimens of Urédo suaveolens of Per- 
soon, on the leaves of Cnicus arvénsis, from this neighbourhood, accompany this letter.’? — 
W. Baxter. Jan. 24. 1834. The tigures of the leaf in Sowerby’s figure does, as Mr. Baxter has 
remarked, exactly resemble the leaf of C. arvénsis, and but little, or not at all, that of C. pra- 
ténsis. It is worthy of remark, that, early in June, 1834 (that is, at the same time as in 1833), 
I have found the Urédo suavéolens Pers. (7Ecidium cardui Sow.) flourishing upon plants of the 
Cnicus arvénsis Sm. in the same group of them as that in which I gathered them last year. This 
notice may appear in time to induce brother gardeners to gather, this year, specimens for them- 
selves (as the species is probably of as universal occurrence as the Cnicus arvénsis itself), and 
witness its powerful and pleasant odour. —J. D. June 11. 1834. 


Corrections. 


Zappania nodifldra 2 7dsea, in p.176. insert ‘‘2” before rdsea. On May 1. we saw a stock of plants of 
this interesting miniature ornament of the garden in Mr. Knight’s nursery, King’s Road, Chelsea. 

Triteleia, in p. 178. (Trezs, three, ¢eleios, perfect ; six stamens are produced in each flower, but only three 
of the six bear perfect anthers.) 


Art. VI. Retrospective Criticism. 


Tue magnificent plant of Hovea Célsi, exhibited at the Metropolitan 
Flower Show, April 16., and said by us (p. 235.) to be sent by Mr. Harrison 
of Cheshunt, was, we find, sent by Messrs. Rollison of Tooting. Messrs. 
Rollison inform us that it was one of that abundant stock of young plants 
which we noticed in VI. 622. g 

Our Notes on Highclere. (p. 258.) — My dear Sir, I have wondered very 
much why you, in your account of Highclere, p. 258., should state so many 
untruths, which may be so easily detected. You say that Lord Caernarven 
has not laid out more than 20/. on nursery plants during the last twenty years. 
The fact is, Lord Caernarvon has paid me for nursery plants, in the last four- 
teen years, more than 160/. The next charge you make is, that more has been 
charged for American plants by nurserymen, than many gentlemen can afford 
to give. How or where you conceived such an idea, it is difficult to imagine. 
Now, my dear Sir, it was easy for you to know that American plants are 
raised in immense quantities in this country from one end of it to the other, 
at very low prices, less than half what Mr. Carr of Philadelphia, and other 
American nurserymen, charge for them. You know also that so many are 
raised, and by so many people, that it is impossible to sustain an exorbitant 
price. So much for that. 

Now, the third and last statement which you make is equally devoid of 
truth; viz., that nurserymen have multiplied tenfold during the last thirty 
years. This I deny; and can prove that a decrease of more than one half 


Retrospective Criticism. 351 


has taken place in that time. Tt is capable of proof that more than 1000 
acres of nursery land have been cleared in the time alluded to, from several 
of the proprietors being in insolvent circumstances; and certainly, in all the 
country, not 500 acres have been taken into cultivation as nursery ground 
instead. — William Malcolm. Kensington, June 6. 1834. 

The circumstance of not more than 20/. having been paid at Highclere for 
nursery plants during the last twenty years, we stated on authority which 
we have not the slightest reason to doubt. It is evident from the context that 
American nursery plants are meant, and not nursery plants generally, which 
may have been bought to the extent mentioned by Mr. Malcolm, without 
including any American plants among them. We are quite aware that Ame- 
rican plants may be raised much cheaper in England than they can be in 
America, and also that they are now, and have been for some years past, 
selling at such a low price by British nurserymen, as hardly to remunerate 
them. But, low as this price is, it may still be too high for many gentlemen, 
who are just as poor in their wayas the nurserymen. We admit, and, indeed, 
we have stated above a year ago (VIII. 129.), that the nursery business is 
at a very low ebb. We regret exceedingly that any thing should have escaped 
from our pen to induce so highly valued a friend as Mr. Malcolm to think that 
we had any other than the very best feelings towards nurserymen, and, in- 
deed, towards every description of gardeners, either generally or particularly. 
— Cond. 

St. Michael’s Mount, Cornwall.— The sketch given, with a brief description 
of St. Michael’s Mount, attached to my article upon the evergreen oak 
[IX. 543.], was only meant to give an idea of the situation of the gardens ; 
whereas, placed as it there is, in connection with the reading, it appears as if 
it were designed to give a general view of the Mount. This was not my 
intention, there being only a part of it represented. The accompanying 
sketch (fig. 69.) will better answer this purpose. It is a north view, as seen 


69 


from the land when the tide is receding, and thereby discovering the line of 

the causeway, or approach to the Mount, when the tide is out. The mass of 

rock in the foreground is called “the Chapel Rock,” on which tradition 

reports a chapel, dedicated to the Virgin Mary, to have once stood ; close to 

which, but leaving it on the left, the causeway is continued until it reaches the 
BB 2 


352 Retrospective Criticism. 


land. This venerable monument of antiquity has borne different names at 
different periods. According to the register book of Landaff, its earliest name 
seems to have been “ Dinsol or Dunsul,”’ which has been interpreted “ the 
hill dedicated to the sun,” and the “ hill of prospect.” By Ptolemy, Carew, 
Tonkin, Borlase, Britton, and Brayley it was called by different names in the 
ancient Cornish language; all of which signify, according to William of 
Worcester, “ Le Hore Rok in the Wodd,” or the hoary rock in the wood; 
and William of Worcester, Drayton, and Carew assert that it was anciently 
covered with trees; whilst tradition reports that it was connected, by a large 
tract of land, full of churches, with the Isles of Scilly. William of Worcester 
also says, that before the tenth century it lay six miles within land, enclosed 
by a thick wood, affording shelter for wild beasts, amid a variegated scenery 
of meadows, fields, groves, trees, villages, and churches ; all of which, with a 
large tract of ground called the “ Lioness,’ were submerged by the ocean: 
and Tonkin says, it amounts almost to a certainty that much land hath been 
lost by inundation round the Mount and adjacent country; whilst Leland 
remarks, that “ in the baye betwyxt the Mont and Pensants be found, nere 
the lowe water mark, rootes of trees yn dyvers places.” In corroboration of 
at least some of the above statements, Gilbert, in his Historical Survey of 
Cornwall, informs us, “that, about sixty years since, an oak tree of considerable 
size, with roots and limbs to it, and the roots stuck fast in the very mould it 
grew in (a black moory sort of earth), was taken up between the Mount and 
Penzance.” This tree was discovered at a very low ebb of the tide; and 
Mr. Giddy of Penzance some years ago discovered, at an extraordinary reces- 
sion of the tide, several stumps of trees in their native soil, with the roots 
shooting out from them, and with their stems apparently cut off. <A vast 
number of hazel boughs, with perfect nuts adhering to them, have also been 
found between Marazion and Penzance, below the natural bed of the soil. To 
account for the above extraordinary inundation, Gilbert, in his Historical 
Survey, has a note upon it, which runs thus :— “ The grand encroachment of 
the water upon the land plainly resulted from a preponderance of the Atlantic 
upon the Cornish shores, occasioned perhaps by a proportional secession 
from the shores of America. It is this preponderance which has thrown such 
a volume of waters on the Scilly Islands, as to break the ten isles of Strabo 
into a hundred and forty islets, and has left only their mountains to testify of 
their existence,” &c.; and Mr. Whitaker, he says, “ cites a mass of authori- 
ties in favour of this fact.” It appears, therefore, from the above abridged 
and concise accounts, that the Mount was, in remote ages, attached to the 
main land, and that it had its share of trees and foliage, which rendered it a 
very different spectacle from what it at present exhibits. It naturally follows 
that the neighbouring country around was, in those days, furnished with wood 
to a greater extent by far than it is at present: in proof of which, there are 
many places at this day to the names of which the word “ wood” is attached, 
but where now there is scarcely a tree in existence; such as “ Clawance 
Wood,” “ Binner Wood,’ “ Kirton Wood,” &c. Perhaps, in those days, 
when the country was broader in extent than at present, the sea air was less 
injurious to vegetation, and therefore trees would grow better: but whatever 
might then have been the state of that part of the island, it is now, with the 
exception of gentlemen’s seats, parks, and villas, nearly destitute of foliage, 
and, what is worse, the farmers in general are mertal enemies to any thing 
like a tree growing on their estates, with the exception of a few that may 
happen to be sprinkled round their houses, farm buildings, and orchards. This 
is to be accounted for by the farms being generally small and the rents high, 
which makes every inch of ground valuable. Even the shadow of a tree upon 
any part of the land makes the farmer uneasy ; and if the land happens to be 
his own freehold, the axe is immediately applied; while, if at rack-rent, or on 
lease, ten to one if the landlord or his steward is not applied to for permission 
to remove it as a nuisance. The farmer, therefore, regardless of shelter for 
his cattle, or of beautifying the country, must not be looked up to even as an 


Queries and Answers. 353 


auxiliary in the business of enriching it with trees: it is the gentlemen of the 
county, and those in possession of large tracts of landed property, who must 
be expected to achieve this. Would they, instead of planting their ten or 
fifteen acres annually, tripie or quadruple the quantity, much would be done, 
in the course of half a century, towards rendering the country far more interest- 
ing and agreeable than it is at present. The small town which is situated at 
the bottom of the Mount is inhabited chiefly by fishermen. The nets, or 
seines, as they are called, which they use during the pilchard season, are of 
immense length and depth; and, in corroboration of what Mr. Main says 
(1X. 723.), it is customary to send them to the tan-pits every season before 
they are used, or rather to boil them in an infusion of bark, in large cop- 
pers for the purpose. It has been hinted to me that no good is gaimed by 
sending garden nets to be tanned ; but I doubt the truth of this. The opinion 
on which it is founded may, I think, be accounted for by the fact, that most 
garden nets are nothing more or less than old fishing-nets, nearly worn out 
before they are purchased, and consequently their strength is too far spent to 
be restored by tanning. Were garden nets to be bought in new, I have no 
doubt that frequent tanning would be of great service. However, fishing- 
nets have the advantage over garden nets, in being less exposed to the action 
of the weather: the former are only used in the season when the particular 
sort of fish they are intended for makes its appearance, and are afterwards 
carefully dried and laid by; whereas garden nets, independently of their being 
more frequently in use, are generally taken less care of. The town of Mara- 
zion, which faces the north side of the Mount, is perhaps the warmest, in 
winter, of any town we have in England, being completely sheltered from the 
north winds by the rising ground in its rear, which shelves down so as to 
expose it to the south in such a way as to receive all the advantages of the 
sun’s rays. The influence of these rays there is equal to that at many other 
places where the sun is at a much higher degree of altitude: this, in con- 
nection with its southern situation, renders the temperature always mild. 
From these local advantages, handsome bouquets of double hyacinths, anemones, 
jonquils, violets, &c. can be gathered at Marazion nearly a month sooner than 
in the places adjacent ; whilst China roses may be seen almost perpetually in 
bloom. Many annuals, also, such as mignonette, sweet alyssum, &c., often 
continue in blossom throughout the winter. —T7"’. Rutger. Shorigrove, April, 1834. 


Art. VII. Queries and Answers. 


OF the following Vegetable Products, which yields the greatest quantity of 
food for live stock ? and what is the produce under different circumstances ? 
The results should be stated in the proportion of the weight of produce per 
acre; and a notice of the proportion of manure used per acre should be 
coupled with the statement.—Potatoes, lucern, saintfoin, prickly comfrey, 
cabbage, rye cut green, leaves of the yellow beet, Swedish turnips, artificial 
grasses, &c. Information from various places, upon all or any of the objects 
included in my query, or upon any object of a congenial nature, will oblige— 
W.A. Stoke Newington. 

Paint combining Colour with Durability. —1 should be glad to be informed 
by one of your chemical correspondents of the kind of paint, combining colour 
with durability, which is the most appropriate for painting conservatories, 
forcing-houses, &e.: also, by mixing lampblack with white lead, in order to 
obtain a lead colour, if strength is added to the consistency, or otherwise ; 
and if otherwise, what ingredient is considered as efficient to neutralise the ill 
effects of the lampblack ? — 7. Rutger. Shortgrove, May, 1834. 

Arboretums. — Having noticed your article upon arboretums (p. 166.), I 
can bear testimony to the truth of W. Harrison, Esq., having a good collection 
of the genus Pinus. Mr. Harrison has also a good collection of the genus 


354 


Covent Garden Market. 


Ilex (holly); but, for reasons best known to himself, they are planted so as 
to form a clipped hedge, as a fence between a field and his arboretum. 


I 


must confess it was with regret that I observed this, as I conceived they were 


well worth a place detached from each other, either upon the lawn, or in a 
compartment by themselves. Mr. Harrison’s garden, taking into consideration 
its small extent, will, I think, gratify any person who may visit it, as there is 
a considerable degree of taste displayed therein, the merit of which is, I believe, 


wholly due to the proprietor himself. — 7. Rutger. 


Shortgrove, May, 1834. 


Willow for Hoops. — Can any of your correspondents state the botanical 
name of the sort of willow used by the Dutch for hoops, and of which the 
If grown in this country, where ? — 


bark is of a dark brown or red colour ? 


C.M.W. London, Nov. 26. 1833. 


Art. VIII. 


The Cabbage Tribe. 


Cabbage, White, per dozen - 
Plants or Coleworts - 
Cauliflowers, per dozen a 


Legumes. 


per half sieve - 
Peas ) per sieve wits 
per sack - - 
Beans, per half sieve iets 
c er half sieve 
Windsor Fak age as 
Kidneybeans, f per hundred 
forced per half sieve 


Tubers and Roots. 


per ton - 
Potatoes - $ pet cwt. - 
per bushel 
Kidney - - S 
Scotch - S a 
New, per pound - S 
Turnips, White, per bunch 
Carrots, per bunch: 
Young - = = 
Horn - - 
Horseradish, per bundle - 
Radishes : 
Red, per dozen hands (24 to 
30 each) = & 
White Turnip, per bunch 


The Spinach Tribe. 
Sorrel, per half sieve] - 


The Onion Tribe. 


Leeks, young, per doz. bunches 
Garlic, per pound - 5 
Shallots, per pound oO) 8 


= Asparaginous Plants, 
Salads, &c. 


Asparagus, per hundred : 
Large = = 5 
Middling = . co 
Small - - = 6 

Lettuce, per score: 

Cos - = iu 
Cabbage - = - 
Celery, new, per bundle (12 
to 15) 2 o 5 
Small Salads, per punnet’ - 
Watercress, per dozen small 
bunches - 5 

Burnet, per bunch = 6 


From 


Gj 
0 
0) 
0 


HR & 
aawo & 


ooocoecoo 
STIR GOOOOtDe 
SCQAcweunoce 


woDd COWNWWAS 
OAD WReooocec 


oo ooo cooocoecgn 
oo 
moO 


ooo 
09 ke) 
ons 


Hn O©SD CAD 


SQV oe EO SOSOeS) 
toe 


oo. OF h6UOrF 


Salix triandra, very probably ; and, if so, 
it is the species which is more extensively cultivated, in all the osier holts of 
England, than any other species. — J. D. 


Covent Garden Market. 


ccc & 


ocococoeo 


co ooo cocococo- 
a 


oco 


Se Cis) 297 SOE) 


Le 
° 


& 


a 


om aco COrHP BNO SOIR eH ODF Coto 


5—K=aop} 


oo CWO FOO MOD 


Le) 


ooo 


| Almonds, per peck - 


Pot and Sweet Herbs. 


Parsley, new, per half sieve 
Tarragon, per dozen bunches 
Fennel, per dozen bunches - 
Thyme, per dozen bunches 
Sage, per dozen bunches’ - 
Mint, per dozen bunches - 
Peppermint, per dozen bunches 
Marjoram, per dozen bunches 
Savory, per dozen bunches - 
Basil, per dozen bunches” = 
Rosemary, per dozen bunches 
Lavender, dried, per doz. bun. 
‘Tansy, per dozen bunches - 


Stalks and Fruits for Tarts, 
Pickling, &c. 


Angelica Stalks, per bundle 


* Edible Fungi and Fuct. 
Morels, per pound So 6 
Truffles, English, per pound 

Foreign = = S 

Fruits. 
Apples, Dessert, per dozen : 
Juneating, new, per 3 sieve 

Baking, perbushel - - 

American, per dozen 

French, per bushel - 
Peaches, per dozen - 
Nectarines, per dozen - 


Cherries, per pound : 
Dukes - we : 
Circassians - - - 
Common, per dozen - 

Gooseberries, per half sieve 
Early Seedling ripe - 

Currants, for tarts, per 3 sieve 

Raspberries, Red, per gallon 
(2 pottles) + ss 

Strawberries, per gallon (2 pot- 
tles) about 3pints - - 
Knevett’s new Pine, p. pottle 
Myatt’s new ditto Oo 

Pine-apples, per pound - 

Grapes, Hot-house, per pound 

Melons = © a 

Cucumbers, frame, per brace 

per dozen oo 

Oranges per hundred 


er dozen 
Lemons ee hundred 
Sweet Almonds, per pound 
Brazil Nuts, per bushel 2 
Spanish Nuts, per peck - 
Barcelona Nuts, per peck - 


oessocoesoscooss & 
ROA TD CoP to croton Pe 


CURB ODORSCOCHOBRRNUHO O MmDovowH ~PSSUS] 08 


esocoeccocooosescso &o SCOSOSoSS cooScoCcSO 
a 


AnSSCSOSSSOAInCD & 


ooo 


SSSSSCHOSCOGARSIOANRSG HA DORSGOHMR coccscon 


ecosocoscossooscoscs & 


oco 


eooccooocecececoo So CSCSOScSoo OFF OSoSSO 


Ko 


coooocooanoeoconts 


ooo 
eoo 


Pe 


SoS 


eS 


_ 
SlOMANWwnwQwHowmoodrns O TWA1M0NMP ABPBROWON 


ecessoecososscsso & 


SOPWOSCOSGAcocooonan 6© cococonm cococsco 


SE 


London Horticultural Society and Garden. 355 


Observations. — The market has been well supplied with every article usual 
at this season, of good quality, and at moderately reasonable prices. The 
prevalence of hot and dry weather has forced most of the articles to perfec- 
tion rather precociously as to season. Of peas (although the early crops were 
much injured by the frosts in May) we have had abundance, which have re- 
alised a fair remunerating price; the qualities of the early varieties has not 
been so good as usual, but the later sorts, which are now coming to hand 
freely, are excellent; such as the varieties of marrows, dwarf imperials, and 
cimeters; which the late refreshing rains will necessarily improve. Beans 
are not yet in general supply, but those which have been furnished are of good 
quality, and quite clear from the blight which more or less usually affects them 
during the prevalence of dry and hot weather. Cauliflowers are not so fine as 
usual at this season, nor are they in such abundance; the season being un- 
favourable to their growth during the past and present months. Turnips are 
scarce, and generally of indifferent quality. Carrots have been much blighted, 
and are consequently deficient in quantity. The season for asparagus is now 
over. The supply throughout has been good, and, from the general prevalence 
of warm weather, which is favourable to its perfection, has been of excellent 
flavour and size. The crop of strawberries is considered deficient, but the 
supplies, from those who possess the necessary means of watering them, have 
been considerable. Good prices for those of the best quality have been main- 
tained, and will most probably continue through the season. Cherries are 
reported as an abundant crop throughout the whole of the districts in which 
they are generally cultivated ; the supply to the market is good, and excellent 
in size and flavour. The prices at present very moderate, affording an oppor- 
tunity of enjoying this delicious fruit to all classes. Raspberries are very 
plentiful, and at present excellent, and likely to be very cheap. Currants are 
also a good crop; and will, no doubt, should the weather remain fine, prove 
of good quality, and at moderate price. The evidence of supply to the markets 
of the metropolis may be determined by the facts of the quantities of any 
given article as furnished to this alone: for instance, of peas, during the week 
ending on Saturday the 21st, no less than 6000 sacks, and 4000 sieves, equal 
to 22,000 bushels, were actually pitched and sold. Of cherries, 4000 sieves, 
of 48 lb. each. Of strawberries, many thousand pottles have been daily sup- 
plied. The stock of potatoes is now nearly exhausted. The prices have 
been higher than usual at this season; the prospect of crop of the early va- 
rieties decidedly bad; the later sorts will probably rally after the late retresh- 
ing showers. — June 26. 

[The plants in pots, and the cut flowers, exposed for sale in this market, 
though seldom noticed in our reports, are, throughout the vear, most abun- 
dant. There are compartments, on the ground floor, both in the open air 
and under cover, entirely devoted to flowers; independently of the ample 
display in the two Bedford conservatories. With these two public conserva- 
tories may now be classed the magnificent one at the Pantheon Bazaar, 
Oxford Street, mentioned p. 277. Taking this bazaar altogether, as a piece 
of interior architecture, as a place of exhibition of pictures, sculptures, and 
other works of art, as a promenade of the fashionable world, and as a scene 
of elegant commercial industry, we know of nothing equal to it in London.] 


Art. IX. London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


May 20. 1834.— Of books presented, we notice Pomona Italiana, Nos. 32. 
and 33.; and Dr. Daubeny’s Inaugural Lecture on the Study of Botany. 

Read. A Description of a hot-water apparatus ; by A. Cruckshanks, Esq. 

Exhibited. Specimens of the sweet-scented vine, from Mr. J. Kirke. 
Renanthéra coccinea, from S. F. Phelps. O’xalis Pidtte, a species of Big- 
nonia from Trinidad, Oncidium papilio, &c.; from Mrs. Marryat. A model 


356 London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


of a stand for conveying flowers from a distance, from J. H. Vivian, Esq. 
Hybrid kinds of Calceolaria, from between C. Fothergille and C. suberécta ; 
from Mr. B. Fielder, gardener to Wm. Linwood, Esq., Forty Hill, Enfield. 
Deitzia scabra and a variegated Caméllia, from T. C. Palmer, Esq. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Camassia esculénta, Bignonia capreo- 
lata, Duvaitia latifolia and depéndens, /Ethionéma Buxbatm:, Cratee‘gus Oxy- 
acantha rdsea supérba; Lupinus polyphyllus, polyphyllus white-corollaed, 
tomentosus, tomentdsus var. nanus, rivularis; Solanum crispum, Collinsza 
grandiflora and a species from Mr. Douglas, Pentstémon procerus, confértus, 
Scoileri, ovatus; Drummond’s thornless rose, Téllima grandiflora, Libértia 
formosa, Colldmia coccinea, Calceolaria excélsa Taylori, viscosissima, Ther- 
mopsis fabacea, Lathyrus califérnicus, Hakea pugioniférmis, and kinds of 
Azalea, Rhododéndron, and Pzonia. 

June 3.— Books presented. Part i1. of vol. ix. of the Transactions of the 
Berlin Horticultural Society. Vol. 1. of Description, &c., of the Vines of 
Hungary: presented by the author, Mr. Francis Schams. Acta Academiz 
Naturz Curiosorum of Bonn; tome xvi. part 2.: presented by the Academy. 

Exhibited. A double cucumber, from the Hon. and Rev. J. Douglas. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society, Lupinus ornatus, arborea, &c.; Li- 
bértia formosa, Linum mondégynum [In August, 1833, we saw this in the 
Society’s Garden: itis ¥ A or. 2 ft. jn.au. W. The styles were then five in 
number in each flower; which fact teaches that the specific epithet is not well 
applied to this plant], hybrid gladioluses, Phacélia tanacetifolia, Eriophyllum 
czspitosum, Brodiz‘a congésta, Paonia albiflora var. Whitléy:, and other 
Chinese and garden roses, among which were Pallavicin:, yellow sweetbriar, 
ruga, and Lord Caernarvon’s sweet-scented. 

The Show at the Horticultural Society's Gardens, on Saturday the 7th imst., 
went off, as the phrase is, in the most desirable manner, nearly 3000 persons 
being present. So great was the crowd round the stage on which the flowers 
and fruits were exhibited, that we could not get sufficiently near to do equal 
justice to all the exhibitors; and, therefore, we prefer simply giving a list of 
the prizes, and of the names of the persons to whom they were given. We 
have since been informed, that all imconvenience of this kind will be obviated. 

The gold Banksian medal: 1. For grapes and pines, exhibited by Mr. 
Dowding, gardener to Lady Clarke; 2. For a miscellaneous collection of 
flowers, from Mrs. Lawrence, F.H.S.; 3. For garden roses, from Mr, T. 
Rivers of Sawbridgeworth. 

The large silver medal: 1. For garden roses, from Mr. Stephen Hooker, 
F.H.S.; 2. For a miscellaneous collection of plants, from Mr. Seward Snow, 
gardener to J. H. Palmer, Esq. F.H.S.; 3. For stove and green-house plants, 
from Mr. John Green, gardener to Sir E. Antrobus, Bart. F.H.S.; 4. For 
China roses, from Mr. Stephen Hooker of Brenchley, F.H.S.; 5. For pine- 
apples, from Henry John Grant, Esq. F.H.S.; 6. For pelargoniums, from 
Messrs. Colley and Hill of Hammersmith; 7. For forced fruit, from Mr. W. 
Deas, gardener to the Duke of Norfolk, F.H.S.; 8. For forced fruit, from 
Mr. Hugh Frazer, gardener to Sir C. Sullivan, Bart. F.H.S.; 9. For alstree- 
merias, from Charles Barclay, Esq. F.H.S. 

The silver Banksian medal: 1. For roses, from Messrs. Rollison of Toot- 
ing; 2. For a miscellaneous collection of plants, from Mrs. Marryatt, F.H.S. ; 
3. For rhododendrons, from Mr. Waterer of Knapp Hill; 4. For American 
plants, from Mr. Waterer of Knapp Hill; 5. For pelargoniums, from Mr. 
Wilson of Clewer Lodge; 6. For heartseases, from Mr. George Glenny of 
Twickenham, F.H.S.; 7. For calceolarias, from Mr. John Green, gardener to 
Sir E. Antrobus, Bart. F.H.S.; 8. For ranunculuses, from Mr. Henry Groom 
of Walworth, F.H.S.; 9. For balsams and cockscombs, from Mr. Cock of 
Chiswick ; 10. For pinks and picotees, from Mr. Hogg of Paddington ; 11. For 
a new Frontignac grape, from Mr. John Wilmot of Isleworth; 12. For straw- 
berries, from Mr. C. Knevett of Turnham Green; 13. For cucumbers, from 
Mr. Seward Snow, gardener to J. H. Palmer, Esq. F.H.S. 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
AUGUST, 1834. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Art. I. Notes made during a Professional Journey through Bel- 
gium and Part of France, for the House of Messrs. Low and 
Company, Nurserymen, Clapton, in March and April, 1834. By 
Mr. WiiitiAmM Garvie, Foreman in the Clapton Nursery. 


J Lerr London on the 8th of March, for Ostend. I observed here 
what I had never seen before, viz., that the immense quantities 
of long-legged pigs, which were feeding on the green parts of the 
ramparts, were all tied round the neck with a halter, no doubt 
to prevent them from falling into the steep surrounding ditches. 
The sand along the shore seems, in dry weather, to blow to a 
great distance, and in many places lies in large wreaths like snow. 
There being nothing in the town, or immediate neighbourhood, 
in the way of nurseries or gardens, no doubt owing to its near- 
ness to the sea, my stay here was as short as circumstances 
would permit. 

I proceeded from Ostend to Bruges by the treck-schuyt, or 
passage-boat, along the great canal ; a mode of conveyance which, 
where it can be met with, is far superior to going by the dili- 
gence, on account of the rough paved roads, which are common 
on the Continent, where no great progress has yet been made 
in macadamising. ‘These boats are very well fitted up for the 
accommodation of passengers, the first or best cabin being equal 
to that of a Margate steamer. What is called the barque de 
nuit (night boat) is provided with good beds, where a person 
may sleep as comfortably as in an inn, there being but very little 
noise on deck. Breakfasts and dinners are provided regularly 
at the proper hours, and every other sort of refreshment is 
sold at a very reasonable rate. ‘Soon after leaving Ostend, the 
country is marshy and barren, the canal lying several feet above 
it, and being bounded by steep banks. As you advance, the soil 
greatly improves ; and, I was informed, produces good crops of 
wheat, rye, and barley. 

Towards Bruges the country is beau 
and the fields being in a high state o' 

VoL. X. — No. 53. C ¢ 


358 Notes made during a Professional Tour 


to the town, through a fine avenue of elm trees, is really beautiful. 
It is surprising that such a large town, with the facilities for 
trade afforded by its canals, should be at present so very dull. 
After nightfall, not a person is to be seen in the streets, and 
every place seems as quiet as if there were not a living creature 
in the town. From the extent of the place, I expected to 
find some good nursery gardens, but these are few and unim- 
portant. There is no botanic garden; but there is what they call 
a philharmonic garden, supported by subscription, the use of 
which is, as the name implies, for the subscribers and their fa- 
milies to assemble in on Sundays and holidays during the sum- 
mer season, to enjoy music, and partake in other amusements. 
This garden is neatly laid out, and well answers, no doubt, the 
purpose for which it was designed. It contains some fine clumps 
of the different varieties of azaleas, rnododendrons, and Chinese 
and Noisette roses, &c.; and there is a neat plain building in 
the centre, where the members have their public meetings. I 
visited several private gardens near Bruges, but found nothing 
in them at all interesting. From Bruges to Ghent you pass 
through a beautiful level country, well cultivated, and finely 
diversified with wood and water; the different branches of the 
great canal meeting the eye at almost every turning, the noble 
avenues of elm and other trees planted in straight lines along 
the roadside, and the similar avenues branching off right and 
left, give a fine variety to the appearance of the country, and 
have altogether a pleasing effect to the eye of a stranger. Not 
a single patch of ground seems to be left unoccupied; every 
place is either under cultivation, or in woods; even the small 
open drains that take the water off the fields, and divide one 
from another, are planted with rows of alders or hazels on 
each side. ‘These trees are cut down every seven years, or so, 
for hop poles, and for many other purposes. ‘The farmers seem 
to be rather an industrious set of men; but, from the low prices 
at which they sell the produce of their land, they are poor. The 
horses here seem well adapted for heavy work, being short and 
stout built; and, from the sort of reins generally used, they must 
be extremely docile, and easy to manage. A great deal of the 
field labour, where the farms are small, which is very often the 
case, is performed by the spade instead of the plough; and the 
sandy nature of the soil renders spade operations particularly 
easy. 

The approach to Ghent is not so good as that to Bruges; and 
there are not any fine avenues of large trees, most of them being 
lately planted. Ghent, it is well known, is a large manufac- 
turing town; and before the last revolution it was a flourishing 
place: but at the present time its trade is very much injured, 
nearly one half of the manufacturers being out of work, and 


through Belgium and Part of France. 359 


many others only working a few days a week. The nursery 
gardens here are numerous, and some not of an insignificant 
description. The first is that of Messieurs Verleeuwen, brothers, 
who cultivate a good collection of exotic plants. Their grounds, 
although small, contain two neat houses for stove plants, and 
six for New Holland plants and camellias: one of the latter has 
been lately built, with a large bed in the back for the planting 
out of the newest and best varieties. The place is altogether in 
good keeping, and the plants are exceedingly healthy. Messrs. 
Verleeuwen have commenced growing Orchidez within the last 
year; and some good and rare species of these plants have 
been lately imported, by one of the brothers, from England. The 
next nursery is that of M. van Geert, who chiefly cultivates the 
same sort of plants as Messrs. Verleeuwen; but his collection is 
neither so select, nor so rich in expensive plants. Camellias he 
grows beautifully, and increases fast, having a quantity of large 
stools planted out in a bed in one of his houses, which enables 
him to increase them much faster than in the common way. He 
also grows a great many pear trees en pyramide, azaleas, mag- 
nolias, &c.&c. There are in his garden at present some of the 
finest specimens of Magnolia conspicua in flower I have ever wit- 
nessed ; being one complete mass of bloom from top to bottom. 
The next nursery I visited was that of M. Alexander Verschaffelt, 
whose grounds are more extensive than those of the former, as he 
grows a great quantity of azaleas, magnolias, and many other 
American plants. He has obtained several good varieties of 
magnolias from seed, and also a number of fine azaleas. He 
has several large houses for New Holland plants and camellias. 
Like most other nurserymen, during the present rage for the 
Orchides, he has constructed a small house on purpose for that 
order of plants. M. Verschaffelt seems a very industrious and 
civil man, and deserves encouragement. ‘There are many other 
nurserymen of less importance, the principal articles cultivated by 
whom are for the supply of the market; and the superior beauty 
of the articles produced is surprising, considering the small 
price for which they sell. Camellias seem to thrive with them 
admirably, they have an immense number of varieties; but 
many of these are not worth cultivation, their best varieties 
being received from England: there are, however, some excep- 
tions. The family of Hrica seems to baffle all their skill, as 
there is not a good-looking plant of that genus anywhere to be 
found, unless it has been received direct from England. The 
Belgic nurserymen generally lose heaths so soon after their 
arrival, as to be very shy of importing the expensive sorts from 
England: they say it is the heat of the climate that kills these 
plants; but, in my opinion, it is want of proper treatment, 
as in some parts of France, which must be quite as hot as 
cc 2 


360 Notes made during a Professional Tour 


any part of Belgium, they are cultivated with success. In Bel- 
gium, the heaths are generally placed on the front platform of 
the plant-houses, the front sashes of which being never made to 
open, no free circulation of air can reach the plants: they are 
drawn up slender, the damp gets hold of them, and they soon 
die. If any of the Belgic admirers of Erica would construct a 
small house or pit in a dry airy situation, and contrive the sashes 
in such a manner as that they might be entirely removed in 
mild weather during winter, and bestow the following treatment 
on the plants, I have not the least doubt that they would 
succeed to their utmost wishes. When the weather is frosty, 
I would cover the house well with mats or straw, instead of using 
fire heat, as the latter is well known to be very injurious to this 
tribe of plants; and I would shade it well in summer, when the 
weather is hot, and the sun strong in the middle of the day ; 
always admitting plenty of air, by tilting up the sashes behind, 
and at night removing the sashes entirely, so that the plants 
might have the benefit of the dews. 

The finest private garden near Ghent is that of M. Meche- 
lynck, an opulent merchant, and a most enthusiastic lover and 
promoter of gardening. He has an excellent collection of stove 
and green-house plants, camellias, &c.; among the former he 
has some splendid specimens of rare plants, which are in an 
excellent state of keeping. The young man who acts as gardener. 
seems as enthusiastic as his master, and the management of the 
place does him great credit. M. Verplancke has also a beautiful 
garden; but the manner in which it is laid out, and the want of 
evergreens, give it a cold and meagre appearance, compared with 
places of the same sort in England. ‘There is here one of the most 
neatly constructed green-houses of iron I have ever seen; but the 
collection of plants in it is not good: it is a great pity to go to 
so much expense in fitting up a house, and then not to fill it 
with good plants; the one corresponds so badly with the other. 
I would much rather have seen it the other way. 

Mr. Maddison, at Wondelgem, a few miles from Ghent, has 
one of the neatest and best-constructed geranium-houses any- 
where to be found: it is span-roofed, and, by a very simple 
process, the stage can be raised to within a few inches of the 
glass; a thing very requisite in damp winters like the last. Mr. 
Maddison is by far the best grower of geraniums in Belgium ; 
all the others keeping them so close, that they are drawn up 
quite slender, and lose their bottom leaves, which renders the 
plants unsightly. I found Mr. Maddison very intelligent and 
obliging, and willing to render me every assistance which lay in 
his power. M. A. van de Woestyne-d’Hane, near the last- 
mentioned place, has a good garden, with several forcing-pits 
after the Dutch fashion. Here there were some good crops of 


through Belgium and Part of France. 361 


kidneybeans, peas, carrots, &c. &c. ‘There were also some 
good specimens of old stove plants, and a very large orange- 
house, well stocked with fine healthy trees. ‘The kitchen-garden, 
like most others in Belgium, is badly kept, there being nothing 
like order or regularity observed, either in the cropping of it 
or anything else. The park and pleasure-grounds had a very 
naked appearance; not an evergreen of any description was to 
be seen, and large tufts of long withered grass were scattered 
all over the lawn, or rather over what was meant for such. M. 
van der Meersch, an amateur cultivator, has a very neat small 
place, containing two green-houses and one camellia-house; 
and he has certainly the most select collection of plants I have 
as yet met with. His houses are small, but the plants are in 
very fine condition. His collections of pseonies and roses are 
large, and he has many good herbaceous and alpine plants in 
pots, which he preserves through the winter ina shed. He in- 
formed me that he seldom loses a plant. I was much gratified 
with the whole management of this viila, as every thing seemed 
to be kept there in its proper place. When M. van der Meersch 
turns his plants out in summer, instead of placing them on the 
ground, as is generaily the case, he has low stages erected in a 
shady situation, on which he places the pots, and thus prevents 
the worms from entering them. ‘This is certainly a good plan, 
where there are only a few plants; but in extensive collections 
the expense of erecting these stages would be so great, that few 
nurserymen would be able to support it. ‘There is here a bo- 
tanic garden, which, from its appearance, must be a very ancient 
-establishment ; but at present it is in a very neglected state. 
The plants are in a miserable state; for the curator, being a 
very old and infirm man, not able to attend to the management 
himself, has intrusted it to men that know little, and often care 
less, whether the place is in good keeping or not, and the con- 
sequences before mentioned naturally follow. 

There are a great many market-gardens in the immediate 
neighbourhood of Ghent; but these are generally in very bad 
order, displaying neither regularity nor taste in keeping. The 
vegetables produced are, however, excellent, and very cheap. 
I particularly admired the fine quality of the Brussels sprouts, 
which are here to be found in quantities scarcely credible. 

Having given you a short account of the different places I 
had an opportunity of seeing, I shall now endeavour to describe 
the Féte Jubilaire, which took place on the 15th of March, and 
lasted during the five following days, in the great hall of the 
university ; a place admirably adapted for the purpose, having 
a large glass dome on the top, which admits plenty of light. 
This hall being well heated by means of stoves, the plants 
were preserved in fine condition during the whole time. The 

co 3 


362 Tour through Belgium and Part of France. 


plants were arriving from all quarters for several days previous 
to the 15th: on that day the judges decided to whom prizes 
should be awarded ; after which the plants were all placed on 
stages erected for the purpose, and, being previously numbered, 
and catalogues printed of them, every person had an opportu- 
nity of knowing the names of the plants, and to whom they 
belonged. After the arrangement was completed, the public 
were admitted gratis for four days; a thing worthy of imitation 
by other societies. ‘The plants most admired were, Telopea 
speciosissima, Enkidnthus quinqueflorus, Clivea nobilis, Onci- 
dium papilio and luridum, Brassza caudata, Eriostémon buxifo- 
lius, and Doryanthes excélsa, 16 ft. high, in full flower. All 
these, and many others, were from the collection of M. Meche- 
lynck of Ghent, who received two gold and one silver medal, 
which his collection richly deserved. ‘The collection of Sir 
Henry Oaks, Bart., of ‘Tournay *, deserves particular notice ; 
and the fine condition in which the plants arrived, from such a 
distance, does him great credit: the gold medal awarded to 
strangers was given to him. ‘The collection of M. Reynders of 
Brussels was very little inferior to the last, but yet so much so 
as to lose the medal. ‘There were several other medals dis- 
tributed, amounting in all to fourteen. The distribution was con- 
ducted with great ceremony, in a sort of amphitheatre in the 
university ; the admission was by cards, upwards of four thou- 
sand of which were distributed by members to their friends. 
The company loudly cheered the different gentlemen, as they 
stepped forward to receive their medals from the president of the 
society. Altogether, it was certainly the finest exhibition I have 
ever seen; and, taking into consideration the season of the year, 
and the distance that many of the plants were brought, the fine 
style in which they were forced surpasses any thing I have ever 
witnessed in England. ‘The show of the London Horticultural 
Society, of May 10., was much the best that had ever been ex- 
hibited there, but still it fell far short of that which I witnessed 
on the 15th of March at Ghent. ‘There is no country in the 
world could show against England, if it were not for that aris- 
tocratic pride which divides society into two classes, and which 
does not exist on the Continent. At Ghent it was difficult to 
distinguish the one class from the other; all seemed of one 
mind, and, at least for the time, on the same level. Having 
finished my business I departed on the 18th of March, for 
Antwerp, highly gratified with the reception I had met with 
from the inhabitants, during the eight days that I remained in 
Ghent. 
(To be continued.) 


* According to the Féte Jubilaire (reviewed p.319.), this gentleman sent 
no fewer than 143 specimens. — Cond. 


Gardens at Ravensworth Castle. 363 


Art. II. Short Notices of the Gardens at Ravensworth Castle, the 
Seat of Lord Ravensworth; and of Gibside, the Seat of Bowes, 
fisq. M.P. for South Durham. By G. W. 


RAVENSWORTH CASTLE Is pleasantly situated in the middle of 
an extensive park, which is very much beautified by the diversity 
of its surface, and the excellence of its woods. It slopes to the 
east; and presents a noble appearance when seen from the 
towns of Newcastle and Gateshead, each distant about three 
miles. Lord Ravensworth, the noble proprietor, when not 
attending his parliamentary duties, resides constantly at the 
castle; which is a splendid modern building, enriched by a 
magnificent conservatory attached to the west end. This con- 
servatory is entered from the library, by a door, which, before 
it is opened, resembles a bookcase; and, to strangers, it is an 
agreeable surprise to be ushered from a library suddenly into 
the midst of odoriferous plants, where they may contemplate the 
works of nature developing themselves in numerous forms. The 
interior of the conservatory comprises two square borders, con- 
taining many excellent exotics; and two fine specimens of the 
Acacia decirrens, planted at each end, which meet in the centre 
of the roof. An extensive terrace bounds the south front. The 
disposition of the flower-beds on the lawn, the broad gravel walk 
extending the entire length of the castle, and the borders for 
half-hardy shrubs and climbers, are all in good taste. ‘The old 
castle, now in ruins, with its “ ivy-mantled towers,” seen from 
the terrace, presents a singular contrast to its more modern 
neighbour. 

The garden is approached by numerous serpentine walks, 
bordered with the finer kinds of shrubs. One walk leads past 
a pond inhabited by several species of foreign fowls, and having 
an island and rustic domicile in the middle of it. The garden 
is extensive; but the soil, a tenacious clay, is not well suited for 
the growth of vegetables. The forcing department consists of 
numerous pine-stoves, peach-houses, &c.; with a large double- 
staged green-house, one for pelargoniums [there is a pelar- 
gonium of merit called Lord Ravensworth], the other for 
heaths. ‘The door is in the front ; opposite to which there are 
two, and, at the ends of the stages, several, very fine plants of 
the different kinds of Fachsza, fixed to posts. Nothing can equal 
the beauty and splendour of these plants when they are in full 
bloom. 

In the melon ground there is a pit exclusively used for fruit- 
ing the queen pine, by a method not yet generally adopted in 
iarge establishments ; but which is said to be very advantageous, 


as that kind fruits much sooner than any other. Ravensworth 
cc 4 


3864 Gardens at Gibside. 


has long been celebrated for superior pines, the collection being 
one of the largest in the north of England. 

The present intelligent gardener, Mr. Bell, succeeded Mr. 
Richardson, the noted pine-grower, three years ago; and deserves 
great credit for the superior skill evinced in every branch con- 
nected with his business. His house is contiguous to the garden, 
and is in unison with the magnitude of the establishment. 

Gibside, the Seat of Bowes, Esq. M.P. for South Durham, 
was, from the death of the late Earl of Strathmore, until the pre- 
sent proprietor became of age, almost totally neglected. Few 
places, for good keeping, could equal Gibside during the life- 
time of the late earl. About thirty men were employed, all the 
summer season, in mowing the lawns in the pleasure-grounds 
and the numerous green drives through the woods. It appears, 
by the improvements made since the present proprietor has 
attained his majority, that the place will probably, in a short 
time, resume its former splendour. 

The garden, which is in the form of a square, comprises four 
acres, divided and encircled by broad grass walks. A range of 
old dilapidated hot-houses, that, at one time, occupied all the 
north wall, are giving place, by piecemeal, to a range of metallic 
houses on the curvilinear plan, to be heated by hot water: these, 
when finished, will have a grand appearance. A pond at one 
corner of the garden, full of aquatic plants, merits attention, as 
this is rather a remarkable feature in a kitchen-garden. The 
winding approach, along the brink of a wooded glen, passes the 
banqueting-house, which has a geometrical pond in front. On 
the opposite side, but nearer to the mansion, a magnificent Ionic 
column, 120 ft. high, crowned with a statue of Liberty, suddenly 
strikes the eye. ‘The mansion stands upon a terrace. The 
ground on the west side slopes gradually into an extensive 
meadow, the river Derwent forming the boundary. A winding 
terrace-walk leads to a large architectural green-house, and 
thence to the much-admired chapel. The scenery is bold, grand, 
and truly picturesque; and, for varied and extensive prospects, 
can seldom be equalled, more especially the distant views to the 
west, over the Derwent. The park is four miles in circum- 
ference; and is well clothed with fine old timber, interspersed 
with a good collection of yews by the sides of the green drive, 
which are pleasant to look at in winter, when all else appears 
bleak. Gibside, taken as a whole, is a first-rate residence, being 
replete with natural beauty, heightened by art. 

Staffordshire, Jan. 3. 1834. 


Our correspondent has just (July) obtained a place as head gardener in the 
West of Scotland; whence, we trust, he will frequently let us hear from him. 
We most ardently desire, that similar good fortune may speedily attend our 
other young friend and correspondent, Scientiz et Justitia Amator. — Cond. 


Importance of visiting Gardens. 365 


Art. III. On the Importance, to Gardeners, of visiting Gardens ; and 
on the Restrictions, in some Cases, thrown in the Way of their doing 
so. By Scientia er Justiti@ AMATOR. 


Wuen I consider the circumstances in which I was lately 
placed, living in a country where gentlemen’s seats so much 
abound, I fear you will think me negligent in not having sent, 
according to your request, a description of some of the gardens 
in the neighbourhood. Various reasons have as yet deterred me 
from commencing such an undertaking. I perceive that when 
you, or any of your correspondents, give a description of a gar- 
den, you generally accompany it with a notice of the site and 
architectural style of the mansion, and the manner in which the 
park is laid out, followed up by remarks upon the adjacent 
scenery ; showing how all coincide, or fall short, in forming a 
harmonious whole: subjects all very interesting and instructive, 
as tending to give us, working men, some knowledge of the 
leading principles of architecture and landscape-gardening, but 
subjects which I do not feel qualified to discuss. Another reason 
is, the great difficulty of giving an impartial account of a number 
of gardens, without wounding the feelings of some worthy indi- 
vidual; who, although well versed in the principles of his art, 
yet, from the circumstances in which he is placed, finds it impos- 
sible to obtain that success, or keep up that respectable appear- 
ance, which he would desire, and which, perhaps, he had formerly 
done in other places of which he had the management. Some, 
convinced of this, when giving a description of a place, chiefly 
confine their observations to what they consider denotes supe- 
riority of management; and the consequence is, that we are 
frequently disappointed, when visiting places of which we have 
read, merely because an impartial account of them has not been 
given. Others, when they see a place badly kept, are too apt to 
impute it to the slovenly habits of the gardener; while, in the 
generality of instances, it proceeds from the restrictions put 
upon him by his employer. 

All gardeners must agree as to the importance a visiting as 
many g gardens as possible. The advantages to be derived from 
this practice by the gardener, and, consequently, by his employer, 
are so apparent, that many gentlemen not merely allow their 
gardeners the necessary time, but frequently defray the whole of 
their expenses; and the only thing to excite our surprise is, that 
any should be so blind to their own interests as to oppose it, or 
be actuated by such an apparent selfishness as to deprive visiting 

-gardeners of the privilege of looking through their premises. In 
many places, visiting gardeners, especially if young men, are 
shown only part (and, often, the most attractive part) of the 
srounds; and, even then, it frequently happens that the terror 


366 Importance of visiting Gardens. 


depicted upon the countenance of your guide, lest you should 
be seen by any of the family, the skulking-holes in which, at 
times, you must conceal yourself, to avoid observation, and the 
anxious manner in which you are hurried along, render it im- 
possible to enjoy that satisfaction which a calm survey might 
have afforded. If such things are the effect of strict orders, the 
resident gardener, however painful it may be to his feelings, 
ought to comply with them, and admit no visiters at all; and, 
this being made known, other gardeners would not be disap- 
pointed. If not the effect of strict orders, the gardener, or the 
person who conducts you, acts in a manner calculated to render 
himself suspected of some nefarious design; for, although no 
one, in such cases, would desire to obtrude on any of the family, 
the resorting to unmanly methods of avoiding them is enough 
to raise suspicions in their minds, fear and alarm being con- 
comitants of guilt. It would be pleasant to observe that none 
of these obstacles could be traced to the mere capricious humour 
of gardeners ; but, from what has fallen under my observation, 
I cannot exonerate them of such a charge. As a proof of this, 
I may mention, that, on taking a tour along the coast of Fife, 
with a valued correspondent of this Magazine, we came to 
D ; and, after calling upon the head-gardener, who lives at 
a considerable distance from the principal garden, and obtaining 
his permission to look over the grounds, we proceeded to 
them. On our arrival, after being shown through the kitchen- 
garden (the greater part of which was sown with grass), the 
young man who conducted us declared that he could show us 
no more without permission of Mr. » the under-gardener. 
This Mr. being from home, we waited a long time for his 
return ; when, on our stating where we came from, he ordered 
the same young man to show us every thing. Now, the least 
reflection will show the absurdity of such a practice; for, how- 
ever far a person might travel to see these gardens, his journey 
would be labour in vain if this Mr. were from home when 
he arrived. It was in 1830 that I visited this place ; and I know 
not whether the practice be still persevered in. 

As another drawback to the young gardener, it is now becom- 
ing fashionable, when new places of any celebrity are forming, 
to admit no visiters until all is finished. When I read an account 
of a celebrated establishment near London, I never imagined 
that I should frequently pass one of the boundary walls of the 
garden, and yet know less of what was doing within than when 
T was several hundred miles distant. Although I have not had 
the best opportunities for judging, I have long felt convinced 
that much is to be gained from visiting a new place while the 
operations are proceeding; and, accordingly, being in the 
neighbourhood of Derby in the month of August, I called at an 


Importance of visiting Gardens. 367 


extensive new place, where, I had been informed, every thing 
done and doing was upon the most approved and scientific 
principles; but imagine my disappointment, when the gardener 
politely expressed his regret that I had come so far for nothing, 
as he had received orders to show no one through the grounds 
until all was finished. ‘The unfitness of gardeners to lay out a 
small piece of ground is sometimes alluded to, perhaps too 
justly, by those who seem to feel a pleasure in descanting upon 
our ignorance, and depreciating the abilities which, as a body, 
we really do possess; but, if this exclusive system once become 
generally acted upon, how can we ever improve in this respect ? 
How can those who never were employed in the formation of a 
new place be possessed of clear ideas on the subject, or be qua- 
lified for conducting operations in a proper manner ? Whatever 
may be urged in defence of this exclusive system, it is manifestly 
prejudicial to the improvement of the young gardener. It is 
little satisfaction to tell him, that, some years afterwards, he may 
enjoy the privilege of walking over the grounds. His curiosity 
may be then satisfied, and his admiration excited ; but he will learn 
no more of the art of laying out a garden, than a person desirous 
of becoming a lapidary would acquire of that art by merely 
beholding a finely cut and highly polished pebble. Great as is 
the improvement we may derive from the descriptions of gardens 
with which you favour us, it would be greater still if we could 
add our own personal examination after reading the description ; 
and, for my part, I would rather want the description altogether, 
than receive the mortifying intelligence, at the conclusion, that 
the place is not allowed to be generally seen. 

One reason for excluding the public in general from visiting 
such places may be, that they are not sufficiently attentive to the 
old rule, ‘* Look, but handle not; and, far less, take not:” for, 
however this may apply to the public generally, inattention to 
the duties of integrity can seldom, if ever, be laid to the charge 
of the visiting gardener: nay, so well known is our strict adhe- 
rence to propriety in this respect, that, in places where only a part 
of the public is admitted after obtaining an order, &c., the visit- 
ing gardener at once finds admittance. As a pleasant proof of 
this, I might refer to Alton ‘Towers, the romantic seat of the 
Earl of Shrewsbury: a place from which all strangers, except 
those travelling with a livery-servant and their own carriage, are 
excluded; but to which gardeners are freely admitted. This 
extraordinary place is one which every young man who has it in 
his power ought to visit ; and one where he will scarcely be more 
delighted with the magical fairyland stretched out before him, 
than with the pleasing manners of Mr. Miller; who, notwith- 
standing his unquestionable abilities, does not disdain to treat 
with the greatest attention even a visiting journeyman gardener. 


368 Oxalic Acid as a Stimulant to Vegetation. 


Art. 1V. An Experiment made with a View to determine the Efficacy 
of Oxalic Acid in stimulating dormant Vegetable Life. By W1LL1AM 
HamitTon, Esq. M.D. 


I rook, on the 5th of May, four grains of Victoria wheat, 
and put two to soak in 2 0z. of soft water, acidulated with two 
drops of a saturated solution of oxalic acid; while the other two 
were put into rain water. At thirty minutes past one in the 
afternoon of the 6th of May, after having been macerated for 
twenty-six hours, I took out one grain from each, and, washing 
that which had been in the acidulated water from any adhering 
acid, I planted both in separate pots; and, at noon on the fol- 
lowing day, after macerating for forty-eight hours and a half, I 
took the remaining grains, and sowed them, without washing 
that which had been soaked in the acidulated water. On the 
10th of May, the first-sown seed, which had been soaked in the 
acidulated water, first appeared above ground, at 8 a.M., and at 
the same hour on the succeeding day had made a growth of 
four eighths of an inch; while the grain soaked in rain water, 
and sown at the same time with it, was still invisible. At length, 
on the 12th, at 8 a.m., by which time the leaf of the former was 
fully expanded, and its height was 1}in., the other appeared 
above ground, and, almost simultaneously with it, the second 
seed taken out of the acidulated water, and planted without 
washing. On the 14th, the plant which first appeared was, at 
8 a.M., 2in., while that sown at the same time with it had its 
leaf just beginning to expand, and its height was only lin. The 
fourth seed (the second of those soaked in rain water) had not, 
and has not yet, appeared. At this moment, 3 p.m., May 20., 
the first of those soaked in oxalated water measures 6 in. from 
the ground to the top of the longest leaf (two leaves being fully 
developed); that soaked in rain water 3/in.; and that which, 
having been soaked in the oxalated water, was sown without 
washing, 2in. and a little more than six eighths. What their 
future progress will be, we have yet to learn. However imper- 
fect and inconclusive these experiments may be, their notice may 
not be altogether useless, since they may serve to stimulate some 
better experimenter to take up the subject, and prosecute it more 
successfully. 


Plymouth, May 20. 1834. 


VARIOUS notices respecting the Victoria wheat, and some of them of very 
considerable importance, in an agricultural point of view, will be found in suc- 
ceeding pages, under England and Scotland. — Cond. 


Live Moss as Drainage for Pots. 369 


Art. V. On Live Moss as a Substitute for Potsherds, Cinders, 
and similar Matters, as Drainings for Pots. By Mr. Tuomas 
PARKINS. 


In p. 134. are recorded some experiments on draining pots 
with coal cinders, accompanied by some pleasing and useful 
remarks. ‘The most common method of draining pots is, it is 
well known, by using broken pieces of pot, or potsherds; which 
practice, there can be no doubt, became general from the cir- 
cumstance of such materials being always at hand. It is gene- 
rally difficult to root out long-established practices, and sub- 
stitute new ones: I, however, have been trying if “ living 
matter” would not answer for draining pots; and the success 
which has attended my experiments enables me to recommend 
the practice strongly. In the autumn of 1833, I received some 
carnation layers, which had been taken up the day before, and 
I potted them in the usual way. About a month after this, I 
received another set of layers, which had been brought nearly 
200 miles across the country, and which, consequently, had been 
out of the ground some time. The pots in which these last 
were potted were drained with live moss (Sphagnum Z.). On 
turning the plants out of the pots into the border, this spring, 
I found the latter much superior to the former, being more 
healthy and stronger plants; which I attribute entirely to moss 
being used as drainage, instead of pieces of broken pots. About 
the same time I potted some fine suckers, using moss for drain- 
age; and at their removal, in March, I found the pots full of 
fine fresh roots. ‘These results have induced me to adopt the 
plan almost universally this spring ; and all the plants so potted 
present a most healthy and luxuriant appearance. Although 
moss may be considered powerfully absorbent of moisture, it 
will nevertheless permit a more easy percolation of fluid than 
any such compact material as a piece of broken pot. But this 
is not the only advantage gained by its use. Tor rapidly and 
luxuniantly growing plants it is surely of some consequence to be 
able to transfer them from one pot to another without injuring 
the roots, as is unavoidably the case when pieces of broken pots 
are used. Moss, however, not only affords drainage, but, by its 
slow decomposition, a lasting, and perhaps rich source of food 
to the plants growing in it; consequently, when the proper time 
arrives for the plants to be repotted or transplanted to the 
flower-border, it will be unnecessary to remove the moss, which 
will not only save time, which is often wasted in picking out the 
broken pieces of pot, but will prevent any danger of injuring 
the rocts. 

Cannon Hall, near Barnesley, May 17. 1834. 


370 Distinguishing Characters of Trees, 


Art. VI. On the distinguishing Characters of Trees, considered 
with regard to Landscape-Gardening. By Mr. T. Rutcer. 


Your correspondent, “ A Landscape-Gardener,” has well 
said, in your Magazine (IV. 475.), that, in planting, “ the dis- 
tinguishing character of trees should be well studied.” Indeed, 
without this, whatever a man’s pretensions may be to landscape- 
gardening, his works will present a thousand defects to the eye 
of the connoisseur, who expects in them harmony of design and 
striking effects. 

In order to simplify and assist the young and inexperienced 
in this department of the art of gardening, would not a kind of 
classification of the foliage of trees and shrubs be of service, to 
point out to him the proportionate value of each, according to 
its situation, in ornamental scenery? ‘The same question may 
also be asked with regard to the ramifications of trees; some 
of which, when in a state of maturity, and in their decline, are 
far more picturesque than others. Among our deciduous trees, 
of English growth, the “monarch of the wood,” the oak, may, 
I think, claim the precedence, both for its foliage and ramifi- 
cations; and, perhaps, the elm may be considered the next 
in which both are combined, though in a less degree of 
pictorial beauty. The Spanish or sweet chestnut claims high 
regard with respect to its foliage; whilst the lime, with its pen- 
dulous branches, forms a beautiful cone of lively green from the 
ground to its summit. The horsechestnut, scattered here and 
there among other trees, produces a good effect, particularly 
when in bloom: as a lawn plant, it is too stiff and lumpish 
in its appearance, and should be but sparingly introduced ; 
whilst the planes, both occidental and oriental, are valuable for 
the lawn, and equally so in masses mixed with other trees. The 
ash may, I think, be considered as possessing few claims for 
introduction into ornamental scenery, and therefore should be the 
less employed by the landscape-gardener; whilst the beech, in 
many instances, may be planted with advantage. The effects of 
the Lombardy poplar are so judiciously shadowed forth in this 
Magazine, by your correspondent Mr. J. Thompson (I. 16.), in 
an article well worth the attention of those who may wish to 
make use of this poplar advantageously, that I need not enlarge 
upon it; and the weeping willow, which is made the almost 
constant companion of the river, lake, and waterfall, will always 
be admired in proportion to its adaptation for the place assigned 
to it. 

Among the resinous tribe, the Scotch pine and the cedar of 
Lebanon may be taken into primary account with regard to 
their ramifications; and the latter in its foliage is seldom if ever 
surpassed, particularly when it is planted in a soil congenial to 


with regard to Landscape-Gardening. 371 


its growth. In such cases it is seen towering up to the height 
of sixty or seventy feet, and stands unrivalled upon a lawn, or in 
any situation favourable for allowing it to feather itself down to 
the ground. ‘The silver fir has a similar claim to the notice 
of the planter, as has also the spruce; and the latter may be 
planted occasionally as skirtings on the lawn side of plant- 
ations or shrubberies, with more freedom than the former, on 
account of the diversified appearance of its fronds, which on 
different trees is often remarkable, and produces a_ pleasing 
effect. In speaking of the larch, I think it may be recom- 
mended to be planted in groups among trees of various kinds, 
but more particularly among large masses of the other kinds of 
fir, where, by its enlivening green, particularly in the spring, it 
will greatly relieve the sombre appearance natural to that tribe. 
The Weymouth pine, much as it may, perhaps, be admired by 
some, is generally of too short a duration to be recommended as 
worthy of much consideration by landscape-gardeners; and, 
even where it lives long, it does not retain enough of beauty to 
render it desirable. 

I might in this way proceed to give hasty notices of many 
other kinds of trees, and also of the vast variety of shrubs, both 
deciduous and evergreen, which are now cultivated for the sake 
of ornament; but I feel I am treading upon hallowed ground. 
I am even doubtful if my lucubrations on the subject would be 
possessed of a sufficient degree of merit to render them service- 
able; and it is well if I have not already committed myself. I 
therefore decline pursuing the subject any farther, hoping that 
others of acknowledged taste and judgment may feel inclined 
to give it their attention; and that, through the medium of 
your Magazine, we may see the result of their considerations 
upon it. 

The specific object which I have in view is, to give to the in- 
experienced young gardener a kind of outline whereby he may 
proceed upon safe ground in disposing of trees and shrubs ac- 
cording to their relative value, so as to produce the best effects 
that local circumstances may admit of, either for the park or 
pleasure-cround. To elucidate the subject, skeleton plans 
might be given, and numbered with references descriptive of the 
tree or shrub to be planted, and if singly or in masses; to which 
might be added remarks upon the lights and shades that would 
be produced by the different tints, projections, indentations, &c., 
in a lengthened plantation, planted either in partial masses of 
one sort of tree, or otherwise. Distances might also be taken 
into the account, showing the effect that would be produced by 
various kinds of trees and shrubs from different points of sight. 
The ingenious designer might first sketch the outline, in his plan, 
of the buildings and water which may be supposed to exist, 


372 Hints on Landscape-Gardening, Sc. 


together with the bridges, temples, ruins, lodges, &c., in con- 
templation to be erected. Hills, also, and undulating ground 
might be sketched in, agreeably to his fancy; as well as other 
things that might be suggested by way of usefulness or embel- 
lishment. 

Perhaps some of your readers may think that enough has 
already been written upon this subject to lead any person of 
mind sufficiently into it. That there has been a great deal 
written, and well written toc, on landscape-gardening, cannot be 
doubted; but I do doubt if there are many young men among 
your readers who can have access to such publications; and, 
with the exception of what is given in your Lneyclopedia of 
Gardening, and the papers that have occasionally appeared in 
your Magazine, numbers of them may not have read a page 
upon the subject. Besides, this, like most other subjects, is 
capable of farther developement, and is well calculated to call 
into play the slumbering talents of many who may not now be 
conscious of the powers they possess. I should be really glad 
to see this subject entered into fully by some of your intelligent 
correspondents. It opens a wide field for the exercise and dis- 
play of talent; and, as it may be considered the highest branch 
in the art of gardening, it would reflect credit upon those who 
might favour you with designs and the necessary accom- 
paniments of references and explanations, with such observations 
as they might think proper to offer thereon, A farther progress 
in the art would be thus accelerated, while the mind would be 
employed in one of the most delightful exercises that nature has 
afforded to man. 

Permit me to add, that your Magazine, being a periodical, is 
well adapted for the reception of articles of merit in this inter- 
esting branch of gardening; as, by occasional essays, that per- 
petual stimulus will be kept up which is necessary to the 
perfection of every art; and notices of its progress must be 
highly beneficial to all those who need instruction. 

Shortgrove, Essex, Jan. 1834. T. RutceEr. 


Art. VII. Hints on Landscape-Gardening, on the Use of Botanical 
Rarities in Picturesque Scenery, and on the Size and Arrangement 
of Flower-Gardens. By CALYcANTHUS. 


Tue observations of the Chevalier Sckell (p. 197.), I con- 
sider most useful to young gardeners, by leading them to con- 
sider theoretically some of those points which they may have 
hitherto known only in practice. ‘The Chevalier Sckell seems 
to think that the great addition made since the commencement 


Design for laying out a Kitchen-Garden. B78) 


of the present century to our stock of plants, is less advan- 
tageous to lJandscape-gardening than to botany. It certainly 
appears to me, that the landscape-gardener and the botanist 
have very opposite views, which it is not always easy to reconcile : 
the former looks upon plants as mere materials of picturesque 
beauty in the garden; while the latter is too apt to look upon 
his garden solely as a receptacle for botanical rarities. I have 
seldom seen these opposite interests so well combined as at Cob- 
ham Hall, in Kent. I cannot help thinking that, where pictu- 
resque beauty is the principal object, the size of the flower-garden 
is often extended much beyond the economical point; that is to 
say, the effect produced is not in proportion to the expense and 
trouble incurred. A much better effect might frequently be ob- 
tained, if one half of the ground occupied by flowers were to be 
turfed, or judiciously planted with shrubs, and this in small gar- 
dens as well as in large. The beauty of a garden, like that of a 
picture, does not depend upon magnitude, but upon proportion 
and keeping; and the human eye isso constituted that no beauty 
can please, unless due attention is paid to what is, with great pro- 
priety, called repose. In the parks and shrubberies of many of 
the nobility and gentry of this country, we find that, if the size 
of the flower-garden be more than very moderate, it is divided 
into a series of pictures, by means of the judicious disposition of 
shrubs or ornamental trees. It seems to me that a flower-garden, 
considered only with reference to beauty, is too large when the 
flowers produce effect only as masses of colour; when, for 
instance, the common marigold and Callidpsis bicolor are con- 
sidered as alike producing a tint of yellow. ‘There is an elegance 
of form and growth in many flowers, quite as pleasing as their 
colour, but which becomes lost, or unavailable to effect, when 
the whole garden is too extensive. 
June 16. 1834. 


Art. VIII. A Series of Designs for laying out Kitchen-Gardens. 
By Mr. T. Rutcer. Design 3., Containing an Acre and a Half 
within the Walls, and about the same Quantity in the Slips. 


Tue plan (fy. 70.) is intended to enclose within the walls, 
including the forcing department, about an acre and a half, and 
the slips will add nearly an acre and a half more. The slips 
may easily be curtailed, if thought too large; but, by the width 
shown on the plan, room is afforded for standard apple trees, &c., 
as particularised in the references. Instead of espaliers, dwarf- 
trained fruit trees are here introduced by the side of the walks ; 
and, if this be not approved, gooseberry and currant trees may 
take their places. 

Vou. X.— No. 53. DD 


PS.9 PSN 95 9 | 


O//Gae8Srn Gh Of5an0 


VTSBAVDOBSSOHO O94 


[bo GO 9986599050009 Pooo he go ste De OF 


| SSBB DO Deo aoona od Page 


4 


[MM | 
[RG 


ll 
SS 


FUT LLOOTTOTO TO 5 TTT 


IG GG. 


: 


mm 


oPELETEMIINYULLIt 


UT 
ae BIS Eu. 
N 
N 
Pia 11 
: 12 
Ee____=_===== 
13 


17 


DUP iiy eer error 


10 50 100 feet 


Aecariissiceiiaa 717 T Tiasidiae Tera 


1. Shps, with standard apples, pears, cherries, filberts, &c., at the sides. 2. Ponds. 3. Culinary 
department, bordered with dwarf apple trees or gooseberry bushes, &c. 4. Forcing department, 
5. Vineries, fig-house, and for forcing strawberries, &c. 6. Water-basin, or pump. 7. Pine- 
stove. 8. Peach-houses. 9. Pits. 10. Back-shed. 11. Frame ground. 12. Cucumber 
ridge, early carrots, or potatoes under hoops, &c. 13. Melon or cucumber ranges. 14, Mush- 
room-sheds, tool-house ; sheds for wintering vegetables, &c. 15. Gardener’s house. 16. Fruit 
and onion room, with lodging-room for under-gardener, and seed-room over. 17. Department 
for compost, mixing and turning dung, &c. 


Gardener's House for a North-West Angle. 375 


Arr. IX. Design for a Gardener's House, for the North-West Angle 
of a walled Kitchen-Garden. By Mr. Ropertson. 


. 


a 


ae , 
Mt 
| ( i | \ 
| NN 
AN i rn nal 
} WN MLL ALLL = E>. RDoxXX 00] 


Sy Hl 


i 


Lif, 
Z 


WL 


il 


Uf 


Z 
Nie 
1 
1 


= 


Tn 


Ft. 


Phe principal floor contains: —a, Entrance lebby; b, kitchen ; c, parlour ; and d, office and library, 
here are cellars below, three bedrooms (e) above, and the usual offices outside. 


DD 2 


376 Modes of constructing Forcine-Heuses 
t ri o (=) 3 


ArT. X. Considerations on the various Modes of constructing Forcing- 
Houses, relatively to the Degree of Heat to be obtained in them 
Srom the Sun’s Rays. By Mr. Gzorcre M‘Leisu. 


Ir is not my intention, while the mania for hot water is in 
such an unsettled state, to enter largely on the manner of sup- 
plying heat to the interior of hot-houses, either by flues or by 
pipes conveying steam or hot water; I shall confine myself at 
present to the transmission of heat from the solar rays through 
the medium of glass. 

To begin with the pine-stove: gentlemen gardeners (that is, 
those who superintend their own gardens), and gardeners, and 
amateurs, have, no doubt, seen a variety of pine-stoves with the 
angle of their roofs varying from the flat roof of the pine-stoves 
at Kensington to the comparatively steep one of the celebrated 
Baldwin ; and very possibly have, one time or other, found very 
good pines in most of them. ‘They have, too, very probably, 
generally taken it for granted, that those in which they have seen 
the best pines must of course be the very best models which 
they could copy in houses to be built for their own cultivation 
of the pine, without once enquiring into the cause, or combin- 

"79 ation of causes, why the 

pines .in the houses which 

; they may have selected as 
models have excelled in 

either size or beauty. I 

herewith send you the end 

sections of two pine-stoves. 

PS A eS SLA Fig.'72. is the pine-stove of 
Ft.10 0 10 20 25Ft a gentleman with whom a 
particular friend of mine lives in the capacity of gardener; and 
it exemplifies the flat roof of the Kensington fruiting-house. 
"3 ,. Hig.'73. is one constructed after the man- 

ner of Baldwin’s fruit-house or stove, 

I shall endeavour, as briefly as pos- 

sible, to point out the advantages of the 

latter over the former. In both figures, 

| a represents the sun’s rays on Decem- 

ber! 21.5 in latitude 51°: ~ Info. 725 

the angle of incidence becomes 58°, which, by Bouguer’s table 
[see Encyc. of Gard., § 2457. new edit.], transmits more than 
888 rays out of 1000, the remainder being reflected. This house 
stands at an angle of 36° from south to east, consequently the 
sun shines directly on the roof at ten o’clock, the sun’s alti- 
tude being then about 8° above the horizon, thus increasing the 
angle of incidence to 65°; which, according to the above-men- 
tioned. table, loses an additional 45 rays by refraction: for it is 


relatively to maintaining a high Temperature. 377 


questionable whether the effect of the increased altitude of the 
sun at twelve o’clock may not be almost lost on account of the 
obliquity of the angle. ‘The original purpose of this house was 
to grow pines and kidneybeans through the depth of winter, 
and strawberries from March till a supply could be obtained 
from the open ground. In jig. '73., the angle of incidence, on 
December 21., is 41°, which, according to the above table, 
admits nearly 966 rays; leaving a sensible balance of transmitted 
rays in favour of fig. 73. 

Let us next consider these two houses with regard to their 
different capacities for retaining and radiating internal heat. 
Fig. 72. has a metallic roof, and is, therefore, a greater con- 
ductor of heat and cold than jg. 73., which is of wood. 
Fig, 72. has a flat surface, and is, in consequence, much more 
susceptible of cooling, during the absence of the solar rays, than 
Jig: 73.5 which is comparatively steep. Of this consequence any 
person may convince himself, by placing an object of a cubical 
form in the open air during a frosty night, with one of its six 
sides in a horizontal position: the upper horizontal side will be 
covered with hoar-frost, while the four sides vertically exposed 
will be comparatively, if not absolutely, exempt from it. The 
cause is obvious: hot air takes an upward direction, and cold 
air the contrary, unless when acted on by some powerful 
horizontal force, .as, for instance, wind. On this principle, 
therefore, the steeper the surface, the less favourable it becomes 
to radiation; and the more horizontal, the more favourable. 
Fig. 72. is wide, and is therefore less easily heated; and, from 
its construction, it cannot admit of being covered during severe 
weather. Fig. 73. is narrower, and therefore is more easily 
heated, and can readily be covered during severe weather ; 
which gives it an additional advantage over jig. 72. “ Oh!” 
but some may say, “ only apply a little more fuel, and that ob- 
viates all your objections.” But I say, without hesitation, this 
can never supply the deficiency ; for the heat that is given out 
by a smoke-flue, or hot water or steam pipe, as these are com- 
monly constructed, is not only deprived of its hydrogen, which 
is so favourable to vegetation, but it is also, in the case of a 
smoke-flue, so loaded with sulphureous effluvia, that nothing 
subjected to its influence can thrive; and many tender plants 
will actually dwindle away. Each of these houses may be very 
good in its place: Baldwin’s both to grow and fruit pines; and 
the other to fill with plants ready to fruit about the middle of Fe- 
bruary or the beginning of March, to let them remain in until the 
fruit are all cut, and then to let the house be unemployed till the 
sun again commences his course towards the northern hemi- 
sphere. ‘lo attempt, however, to grow kidneybeans in such 

DD 3 


878 On the Cultivation of 


houses, with the idea of reaping a full crop (only see the method 
of giving air, 6), would be like the fruitless labours of Sisyphus, 
who was condemned to roll up hill a large stone, which cease~ 
lessly frustrated his efforts by rolling back again. 

In short, the great objects in the formation of forcing structures 
are, providing the capability of preserving an abundance of heat, 
whether derived from the sun externally, or from the ignition of 
fuel through the kinds of internal apparatus already mentioned ; 
the means of facilitating its escape at the highest part of the 
house; and plenty of transparent surface, with the power, how- 
ever, of rendering it partially or absolutely opaque at pleasure. 
If these conveniences are provided for the gardener, it is his 
own fault if his plants do not succeed; and :f they do not, as 
it must be through his ignorance or injudicious treatment of 
them, on him should rest the blame. 

I have offered these observations from an honest desire of 
palliating an evil which I am unable to remove; namely, that 
springing from the misunderstanding which too frequently arises 
between gentlemen and their gardeners, from the former requir- 
ing and demanding of the latter those results which (from the 
means afforded) it is morally impossible for them to produce. 

Ville parmi les Collines, April, 1834. 


Arr. XI. Brief Observations on preparing the Ground for Planting, 
on Pruning, and on the Cultivation of Trees for Timber. By 
Mr. Georce Burton. 

Ir has been contended by some, that a well-prepared soil and 
good culture occasion a too hasty growth, and, consequently, 
the deterioration, of timber ; and, by others, that the fibre of the 
wood is strengthened by a vigorous growth, and that the best 
culture will, with a suitable soil, give the best timber. Now, 
neither of these opinions is entirely correct; for, when the 
ultimate bulk of a tree is compared with that produced in the 
first twenty years of its growth, it is of little consequence, per- 
haps, to the converter [the manufacturer of the rude tree into 
forms fit for the use of the carpenter, &c.], if it is sound, whether 
it grew quickly or slowly, nor will that be enquired after ; and the 
best culture does not affect the growth of the plant, perhaps, beyond 
that period, as the cultivated ground is then filled with roots, and 
the plant must thenceforth depend on the substratum for its 
support. I speak here particularly of the oak. But there are 
two points which make it desirable that a plantation should grow 
rapidly in its infant state: the first is, the satisfaction which the 
proprietor derives from seeing it thrive, as also from drawing a 
quicker return of profit by the earlier cutting down of the 


Trees for Timber. 379 


nurses ; the second is of still greater importance, as a plant grow- 
ing freely for the first twenty years is sure to give a greater length 
of stem than one that is stunted ; as we find that those subjects, 
both in the animal and vegetable creation, generally arrive at 
the greatest perfection, which are well supplied with nourishment 
in their early state. Although timber may be harder and closer 
in the grain by a slow growth, and well suited for many pur- 
poses in common life; yet it is only on soils and situations that 
are favourable to free growth, that we can obtain trees of suffi- 
ciently large dimensions to be suitable for the various purposes 
of civil and naval architecture. 

In every case, then, for the rearing of the best sorts of deci- 
duous forest trees, a preparation of the soil, by trenching, is to 
be preferred where practicable; and the liberal use of the hoe, 
and even shallow digging in the winter, for three or four years 
after planting, will much benefit the plants: at the end of which 
period, if the plantation has gone on well, these may be discon- 
tinued, as the trees will then nearly meet. It is to be understood 
that the plants are to be put in about 4 ft. apart, and not less 
than 3 ft., according to soil and situation. 

Pruning will next become necessary: but here, as in the case 
of preparation of the soil, men are divided in their opinions, 
some recommending one mode, and some another; but all con- 
curring in this, that the object aimed at is, to obtain tall, clean, 
and sound timber ; and, certainly, no object is of greater import- 
ance to the interests of this kingdom. 

The barbarous practice of cutting to within 1 ft., or less, of the 
bole, leaving stumps or snags, is now nearly exploded in theory ; 
yet it is grievous to see that it is still too commonly practised in 
most parts of the kingdom, to the no small injury of the timber : 
so difficult is it to get out of established habits, even when these 
are known to be pernicious. The present observations may, then, 
be limited to an enquiry as to the comparative merits of the close 
pruning and the foreshortening methods; or whether both may 
not be blended together in practice, according to circumstances, 
in order to obtain tall stems as free from knots and other defects 
as the case will admit of, in conjunction with the health of the 
plant and the object of prolonging its growth to the longest 
possible period. 

It may be observed here, that no branch, from the size of the 
finger upwards, can be severed from the trunk without a pro- 
portionate injury being sustained; decay to where the branch first 
had its origin being the certain consequence of removal: con- 
sequently, the larger the branch is at the time of pruning, 
the greater will be the injury sustained by the timber. This 
may be verified by inspection of the growing subject, even when 


the wound has been healed over for a few years, by boring into 
DD 4 


380 On the Cultivation of 


the part with a small auger or large gimlet; or by the converter, 
when the saw is applied. But, if the branch or shoot be taken off 
in its infant state, and when not more than an inch in diameter, 
the injury will be less in proportion; and, in fact, a small speck 
only (which is but of trifling consequence) will appear in the 
timber. 

Ifa purpose cannot be obtained without some sacrifice, it is wise 
and prudent to adopt that plan which will cause the least: there- 
fore, at the age of three or four years after planting, let a few of 
the largest branches be cut off close, and also any that may have 
become competitors of the leading shoot ; being careful, however, 
not to remove too many in one season, but to leave a sufficiency 
to keep the plant in vigour, and to carry it forward with strength 
of stem in proportion to its height ; for, unless a sufficiency of 
branches be left, this necessary end will not be obtained. This 
process ought to be performed annually; or, at most, every two 
years, when the shoots to be removed will seldom exceed an inch 
in diameter. The best time for this operation is in the spring, 
before the flow of the sap commences. It will not unfrequently 
happen that a strong shoot will present itself, which it may not 
be prudent immediately to displace, as it would leave the plant 
too naked in that part. In such case, have recourse to fore- 
shortening, taking off a third or a half down to a leader. ‘This 
will check its luxuriance; and it may so remain for a year or 
two, when, the plant having formed more branches upward, it 
may then be cut off close. ‘Thus proceed by degrees, as the 
tree gains height, until it reaches a point where, from soil and 
situation, it ceases to advance: pruning is then no longer neces- 
sary; the head will form, and the tree will go on enlarging in 
girth so long as health and vigour continue. 

In the foreshortening method of pruning, nature is partly left 
to do her own work ; as the supporters of this system take it for 
granted that, when a branch is retrenched, it will gradually 
decline in vigour, and at last die and fall off, without any assist- 
ance of ours: but we are not yet told at what period we may 
expect this to take place. Until this is done, we proceed upon 
uncertain data; and, so long as the branch so foreshortened 
continues, so long must the defect of the presence of a knot 
remain; and, even at last, when decay takes place, some years 
may elapse before the remains fall off close to the stem; and 
even then the part has to be healed over, and a portion of 
decayed wood will still be left within the bole. The exclusion of 
light and air, by close planting, will do much to facilitate the end 
proposed by this plan; but, to maintain the plant in a proper 
state, it must have space sufficient, so as not to be forced up too 
hastily. 

There are, however, many cases where foreshortening may be 


Trees for Timber. 381 


practised with great advantage, as in hedgerow timber, where it 
is desirable to keep the head within moderate bounds; also in 
woods, where the undergrowth is in request as cover for game; 
and in places where copsewood is of more than ordinary value ; 
as, by due attention to this mode of pruning, the head of the 
tree may be kept conical, instead of flat, and an equal extent of 
surface be presented to the atmosphere for the benefit of the 
plant. The foreshortening method should also be practised 
in all cases where it is wished to curtail or retrench rambling 
branches. 

These leading points kept in view, they will embrace most 
cases connected with the rearing of timber, so as to render it tall 
in the stem, and as sound and free from other defects as circum- 
stances of soil and situation will admit ; so that, by close pruning 
generally, and foreshortening occasionally, they may be so com- 
bined as to produce the most favourable results. 

It may here be remarked, that the defect called wind-shakes, 
which is often imputed to soil, more frequently proceeds from 
trees being drawn up too weak when young, and afterwards 
suddenly exposed by the removal of all the underwood at once; 
which, from its being often permitted to stand uncut too long, 
increases the evil. ‘The same defect is also produced, at a more 
advanced age, when part of a wood is cut down, by the sudden 
exposure of those which are left, to the effects of every blast. 
Another evil attends sudden exposure, from the cold acting on the 
sap-vessels and the sap, and preventing its propulsion or ascent, 
and, consequently, depriving part of the plant of the degree of 
nourishment which it had been accustomed to receive. Hence 
we see frequently dead-topped old trees, and stunted young 
ones, as also the evil of a profusion of small lateral branches 
breaking out from the trunk; which latter occurrence often 
arises, also, from injudicious and excessive pruning, which, as 
well as sudden exposure, ought to be guarded against, keeping 
in mind that prevention is better than cure. But, above all, as 
the principal cause of decay and rottenness in the stem is from 
injudicious lopping off of large branches, let that be avoided, 
except in cases where foreshortening or terminal pruning, for 
certain purposes, may be resorted to. 

At the expiration of four years from the time of planting, if 
the plantation have prospered, and the plants be beginning to 
meet, it will be necessary to commence thinning: but this is 
shamefully neglected in too many places, often to the total ruin 
of the whole plantation. It is here taken for granted that the 
plants were put out not wider than 4 ft. nor less than 3 ft. 
asunder; that the nurses consist principally of larch, spruce fir, 
birch, and the Scotch pine, where the soil is light and the situ- 
ation exposed; and in certain places, where soil and situation 


(oy 
f=) 


382 On the Cultivation of 


are suitable, and underwood is wanted as a cover for game, or 
for other valuable purposes, that the hazel has been freely 
planted: in general about three nurses to one principal will be 
a due proportion, probably the birch and larch may have taken 
the lead, and it may be proper to begin the thinning with them. 
No specific rule, however, can be given for this operation, as it 
will depend on the relative growth of the plants. The principals 
should always be kept clear, so that the branches of the nurses 
do not overhang or interfere with them. As it will frequently 
happen that the removal of a nurse plant might expose the 
principal too much, in such case let such branches of the former 
as encroach upon the latter be foreshortened, or cut in, for the 
present, so as to give sufficient light and air, to the end that the 
plant may not be drawn or forced up unduly, and may possess 
a proper strength of stem to resist the winds and maintain itself 
in vigour. It will not fail to strike the reader, that plants may 
be left closer in exposed situations than in sheltered ones; sud- 
den exposure, at all times hurtful, should be sedulously guarded 
against: hence an annual, or, at most, a biennial thinning, ought 
not to be neglected, so that the plants may enjoy as nearly as 
possible a uniform temperature, by which they will be kept in a 
constantly growing state. This process being regularly carried 
on for fifteen or twenty years, the whole of the fir tribe will be 
removed, except on spots where, from the occasional failure of 
other plants, it may have been proper to retain them, or on the 
outsides of the plantation, where they may be left for shelter or 
for ornament. 

Thus, with due attention to close pruning in the early stage, 
and judiciously combining with it the terminal or foreshortening 
system (seldom removing more than what one year’s growth will 
make good), and foreshortening where necessary, keeping the 
heads of the principal plants clear, and taking care also that they 
do not suffer from the side branches of others, good timber, free 
from the common defects occasioned by injudicious management, 
may be expected, and will, in all cases where the plant has been 
suited to the soil, be the result. 

In the coniferous trees, or fir tribe, various opinions have also 
been given on the required management in regard to pruning. 
The great defect in the timber of this class of trees is the knot, 
which can only be obviated by pruning. But this requires to be 
done with much discretion. Even when planted thick by nature’s 
hand, it is many years before the under branches decay and fall 
off: and in some of the species, after the branch has ceased to live, 
it will remain for many years as a peg, before it drops clean off 
so that the wound may be healed over. [See in p. 293.] If 
planted at 4 ft. apart, and on suitable soil, in five or six years they 
will require the pruning-knife ; and, as in the case of deciduous 


Trees for Timber. 383 


forest trees, care must be taken not to over-prune (which would 
injure the growth ofthe plant), never leaving less than three tiers 
of branches untouched, and in exposed sites four tiers may be 
left. If they are gone over every two years, it will not be 
necessary to take off more than two tiers of branches at a time; 
the best season for this operation is in the spring, some weeks 
before the sap is in motion: let it be done close and smooth, and 
continued until a sufficient length of stem is obtained. In thin- 
ning these plants, particularly in exposed situations, there is 
some danger, and it ought to be proceeded in with caution. 
These trees having thick tops, long stems, and being shallow- 
rooted, the wind acts upon them with great force; and when an 
opening is made, either by plants dying, or by being injudiciously 
thinned out, much damage is likely to ensue. ‘To keep the tops 
free from intermingling, yet not so much so as to introduce a 
current of air, is the safest practice. By thus proceeding, each 
plant, as in the case of deciduous trees, will have the means of 
fully imbibing by its leaves, and perspiring away the crude part 
of the sap, to make room for a succession. Having guarded 
against the wind by moderate thinning, it becomes expedient also 
to attend to the outsides of the plantation, to prevent its inroads 
there, by leaving the outside plants unpruned ; which will not 
only give warmth and security, but will present a better appear- 
ance, by concealing the naked stems within. 

The leaves of trees seem destined by nature to perform two 
essential functions: first, strongly to inhale, during hot and dry 
weather, moisture from the atmosphere during the night, in order 
to repair the waste occasioned by the perspiration of the preced- 
ing day; and, secondly, to receive the juices propelled to them 
from the root, and, as secreting organs, to prepare and elaborate 
the sap so received, to fit it for the support and enlargement of 
all the woody parts of the plant. Hence every branch, according 
to its size, after appropriating to its own use what is necessary, 
sends down the residue to the stem and roots for their enlarge- 
ment, as well as for the multiplication of the roots; which may 
be proved from the roots of every tree being in the ratio of its 
branches. ‘Thus every part of the plant acts and reacts: the 
branches are augmented by the roots, and the roots by the 
branches. 

Pontey and some others consider that the principal use of 
the leaves is to attract the sap upwards; and that tapering stems 
are occasioned by branches obstructing the ascent of the sap, 
and also applying it to their own use; thus preventing the en- 
largement of the stem upwards: so that, according to their ideas, 
if the lower branches are removed, a greater portion of sap will 
go to the enlargement of the stem above. The author of these 
observations believes the reverse to be the fact, and that the 


384 Remarkable Ash Tree. 


branch, according to its size and vigour, administers to, and in- 
creases, the size of the bole, below its insertion; and hence, from 
the uppermost to the lowest branch, the tree will be tapered, 
not because the sap is obstructed in its ascent, but because the 
bole is better fed below by the prepared sap from the branch or 
branches, which is constantly descending and contributing to its 
enlargement, like tributary streams pouring into a river: thus, - 
by removing the lower branches, the stem becomes less taper, 
because a part of the supply of prepared sap is taken away, 
and a proportionate enlargement of the lower part of the bole is 
prevented. 


Art. XII. Notice ofa remarkable Ash Tree at Kincairney, in Perth- 
shire. By Mr. A. Gorrie, F.H.S. C.S. &c. 


Tue ash is planted more for utility than ornament. Summer 
often commences before this tree leaves off its bare wintry ap- 
pearance: it is among the last to unfold its foliage, and the 
first to drop its summer mantle. Like all other trees in the 
forest, the ash varies slightly in the direction of its branches and 
general outline; but, for the most part, its straight stem, smooth 
bark, and formal top cause it to be neglected by the landscape- 
gardener or painter: even the weeping ash, to men of refined 
taste, may appear rather indicating sameness. ‘The Kincairney 
ash forms an exception to the general tame character of its 
brethren. It seems to have been actuated alternately by the 
genius of mirth and sadness: at one time its branches droop; at 
another, they assume an elevated direction. ‘This seeming inde- 
cision of character has given the tree a most fantastic shape; and 
the bending feature is maintained throughout the tree, even in 
its largest boughs. ‘That it will, when multiplied by engrafting, 
preserve this characteristic feature, I have no doubt, as even its 
young shoots seem inclined to bend, without being particularly 
nice as to which direction they may take. I have directed the 
attention of Messrs. Dickson and Turnbull, nurserymen, Perth, 
to this tree; and I trust that it may, through them, soon be in- 
troduced among the picturesque trees of the lawn. It grows on 
the estate of Mungo Murray, Esq., of Kincairney, in the parish 
of Caputh, near Dunkeld, Perthshire. The tree seems to be 
very old; and, fortunately for its entire preservation, a super- 
stitious opinion prevails among the lower orders, that any injury 
inflicted on it would be followed by some sad calamity to the 
unhallowed hand that might touch its sacred boughs. When 
the march of intellect shall have cleared away the mists of super- 
stition, taste will become the protector of all such venerable 
objects as the Kincairney ash. 

Annat Gardens, May 7. 1833. 


Notes on the Genus Ash. 385 


THE species and varieties of ash merit a much more extended adoption, in 
planting for ornament and the interest of variety, than they seem to have 
hitherto received. The pinnate leaves of all the kinds, except the Fraxinus 
heterophylla, which is interesting in its simple leaves, are very pleasing; and 
those of a kind which, in some nurseries, is called F/. chinénsis (though no 
kind of ash has been introduced from China) are elegant: and those who love 
to see variegated foliage must admire that of the silver-striped ash. The 
crumpled dark green leaves of the F. atrovirens render this species striking. 
On the charms of the foliage of the common ash, and for numerous interesting 
considerations connected with a particular tree of this species, see Mag. Nat. 
Hist., vi. 327. The great variety which obtains in the foliage of the various 
kinds of ash may be perceived by observing the distinctive epithets by which 
botanists have designated them: — heterophylla (syn. simplicifolia), polemo- 
niifolia, parvifolia, /entiscifolia, sambucifolia, longifolia, ¢amaricifolia, juglandi- 
folia, ovata (the oval-leafleted ), lancea (the lance-leafleted), pannésa (the cloth- 
leafleted), and the (O’rnus) rotundifolia. In their bark, too, while devoid of 
leaves in winter, some of the kinds are very interesting. The gold-barked 
ash is well known to be strikingly so; and there is the rough-barked ash, and 
the streaked-barked ash (O’rnus striata); the coloured-branched, brown- 
branched, black-twigged, grey-branched, and the green-branched, and others 
besides, which are interesting in this point of view. A gold-barked variety with 
drooping branches is now known, and is now in Jenkins’s nursery, see p. 330. 
The shoots of young plants of the common ash have, during their growth in 
summer, if vigorous, a pleasing purple hue. Conspicuous beauty in blossoms 
the species of Fraxinus have not; but the species of O’rnus are not devoid of 
beauty in their panicles of white blossoms. The flowers of O’rnus europze‘a 
are produced in the beginning of June, are odorous, and their odour is not 
disagreeable: it seems to be produced from the pollen. 

On the Common Ash (Fré«inus excélsior) 1 have, I find, these notes, perhaps 
worth expressing : — This tree prefers a tenacious loamy soil ; and some indi- 
viduals, which I know, thrive in meadows through which watercourses pass, 
and whose soil is, consequently, moist. The branches of old ash trees are not 
rarely pendulous; much less so than those of the droopmg ash, but yet 
obviously so. In a row of ash trees, apparently all of the same age, and 
nearly of the same size, some trees, in some years, are seen to bear a pro- 
fusion of seeds, while others, near them, have but a meagre crop. It is easier 
to state this fact than to account for it. The common ash is liable to a dis- 
ease in its inflorescence, either upon particular trees or in particular seasons : 
the whole inflorescence becomes, without flowering at all, a conglomerate 
and, in some degree, a solid mass. Many species of trees shoot twice a year : 
in the spring and soon after midsummer. So far as I have observed, the ash 
does not, or does but inefficiently, produce a second shoot: perhaps I am 
wrong in this. A correspondent at Dundee, “ noticed,” on Nov. 11. 1833, 
“in one of the dens at Will’s Braes, an ash tree protruding fresh green foliage 
from the new shoots of the present year.” In Lejeune and Curtois’s Com- 
pendium Flore Belgice we have read that the ash is frequently cultivated in 
the province of Liége for the sake of its leaves (“ vaccis grata”), grateful to 
cows. Ash poles last longer, and are preferred to poles of other kinds of 
wood, for hop-poles. The wood of the ash is, by the skill of the cooper, 
made to conduce much to the domestic comforts of man. The Ptinide, a 
family of species of minute beetles, whose larve perforate, traverse, and con- 
sume wood, like the wood of ash as well as, I think better than, the wood of 
any other species of British tree. 

The Drooping Ash Tree seems capable, by the aid of art, of almost rivalling 
the famous Banyan tree of India (Ficus indica). In the garden in front of the 
Vernon Arms, in Pleasant Row, opposite York Place and Clarence Place, 
New Road, London, is a tree of the drooping ash, whose branches are trained on 
horizontal trellises, at the height of about 7 ft. from the ground, over twenty- 


386 Culture of the Cucumber at Stoke Piace, 


eight seats and fourteen tables, covering a space twelve yards long by seven 
yards wide; thus forming in itself alone, when in leaf, one large and um- 
brageous arbour. It is needless to add that this tree belongs to the inn. Of 
the seats and tables mentioned, fourteen seats and seven tables, each about 
two yards long, occupy one side of the arbour, and as many the other; and 
there is a walk up the middle for the convenience of access to the twe 
sides. The stem of the tree is in the centre of the arbour, and carefully pre- 
served from injury by a box-like frame, the boards of which are perforated 
towards the bottom to admit air. The extremities of the branches already 
extend beyond the roof of the arbour, and are trained to the side trellises. The 
tree is a beautiful specimen, and in full health and vigour. 

Has the remarkably large Drooping Ash which the Duke of Devonshire, a 
few years ago, transplanted from the nursery of Messrs. Wilson, near Derby, 
into the grounds at Chatsworth, thriven since the transplantation ? The tree, 
according to the newspapers, was fifty years old when removed, and, with 
itself and the earth about its roots, weighed nearly eight tons. “ Some of the 
roots extended 28 ft., and the branches measured 37 ft, from the centre.” 
Forty labourers and several horses were occupied in removing it from the 
ground, and loading it upon the machine used for transporting it. —In p. 180., 
but particularly in p. 408., it appears that seeds of the drooping ash sown 
have not been known to produce plants with drooping branches, but always 
with erect ones. —J. D. June, 1834. 


Art. XIII. On the Culture of the Cucumber at Stoke Place, with a 
Ground Plan and Elevation of the Pits in Use there. By Mr. 
PATRICK. 


I sEnp you herewith a ground plan and elevation of my 
cucumber pits; and I think the plan on which they are con- 
structed one of the neatest and most simple that I have met 
with. I have no doubt but those who choose to adopt this 
method will find it the easiest to work, and the most successful 
of any plans which have heretofore been tried ; and it combines 
economy with neatness, as the heat can be kept up with one 
third less dung than is usually employed. Whoever tries this 
plan will, no doubt, succeed, as there is no danger whatever of 
either burning the roots or steaming the plants. 

I am aware that many gardeners will think my pits too small; 
but I can assure them that there is ample room for the plants to 
grow, and to continue in perfect health with a plentiful crop all 
the summer season; and, provided they are properly managed, 
six lights of these pits will be sufficient for the supply of any 
moderate family, from the beginning of January to the middle of 
summer. Pits of this size have a decided advantage over larger 
ones for early work, as you can keep up in them at all times a 
quicker and more lively heat, and with much less expense, than 
if they were larger; because, the larger the lights or pits are, 
the stronger the linings will require to be. You will see, by the 
plan (fig. 74.), that a range constructed as I propose has an 
epen space, between each three lights, of 12 in. wide, so that 


with a Ground Plan and Elevation of the Pits. 387 


three, six, or more lights, as re- 
quired, may be worked in succes- 
sion. ‘The dung in these openings, 
when once put in, is not to be turned 
like the linings; since, as the pits 
are pigeon-holed, and without flues 
at the ends, the roots will work 
through, and receive a deal of 
nourishment from the dung in the 
openings when it is decayed. These 
openings are likewise exceedingly 
serviceable in cold or damp weather, 
as they afford the opportunity of 
topping up all round with fresh 
dung. The plan (jig. 74.) shows 
the beginning of my cucumber and 
early melon range, which has nine- 
teen lights. It begins with two 
lights, and ends with the same, but 
the intervening length is divided into 
pits of three lights each, with open- 
ings between, as before stated. a is 
- the outside wall of the pit, which is 
of 4-inch brickwork, pigeon-holed 
all round, as shown in the elevation; 0 is a brick-on-edge wall, 
worked up solid, except one row of pigeon-holes at the bottom, 
left for drainage. This inner wall must be brought up one course 
higher than the pigeon-holes in the 4-inch work, or outer wall; 
and, by covering the cavity between this and the outer wall 
with a double layer of plain thin 6-inch tiles, it forms a flue 
back and front. The plain tiles require to be double, be- 
cause the centre of each tile which finishes the flue must be 
firmly bedded over the joints of those first laid. This must 
be particularly attended to, as the flue must be made steam- 
tight. The advantage of this flue must be obvious to the most 
superficial observer, as, by it, the violent bottom heat from the 
linings, which is the bane of all forcing, is moderated ; and, as 
much of the heat is transmitted through the tiles, it diffuses a mild 
and genial warmth, which is circulated among the plants, with- 
out there being any danger of too much heat among the roots. 
It will here be necessary for me to observe that the centre of 
my pits is filled up entirely with mould as high as the flues, 
except about six inches of fresh turf chopped to pieces with the 
‘spade, to be put into the bottom for drainage. This I con- 
sider by far the best material that can be used for this pur- 
pose, and the plants will show the benefit they derive from it as 
soon as their roots begin to touch it. c is the cavity for the 


388 Culture of the Cucumber during Winter. 


linings; and d, a 9-inch wall which surrounds the whole. I should 
have given you my method of treating the cucumber, from the 
sowing of the seed to the cutting of the fruit, or all through the 
season; but the subject of late has been very largely treated 
upon, and most gardeners think their own way best. It may 
be sufficient for me to say, that I grow them on the trellis sys- 
tem, or Gould’s plan. 
Stoke Place, January 27. 1834. 


Art. XIV. Onthe Culture of the Cucumber during the gloomy Months 
of Winter. By Mr. James Youne, Gardener to J. Pulteney, Esq., 
Northerwood, New Forest, Hants. 


AccorDING to promise, I now lay before the readers of your 
Magazine my method of obtaining a plentiful crop of large well 
flavoured cucumbers, during the dark and gloomy months of 
our winters. I grow my plants in a flued pit, heated by linings 
of hot dung. The brickwork is exactly on Mr. Macphail’s plan ; 
only, instead of having the pits filled with tan, leaves, brick rub- 
bish, or stones, I have flues carried under each light, low 
enough to admit of three strong rafters of oak being built into 
the flues, the length of the pit: these are covered with oak 
planks, 1 ft. wide, with half an inch left open between each 
plank, to drain off the water from the plants. ‘The flues are car- 
ried up brick on edge close, so that no steam from the dung is 
admitted into the pit. The rafters over the flues are 2 in. above 
them, so that the heat rises freely into the pit; the floor to sup- 
port the mould in which the plants are to be grown is 9 in. 
lower than the side flues; so that there is a hot-air chamber under 
the plants, which gives them a strong heat, with no risk of burn- 
ing the roots; while the side flues keep the atmosphere in the 
frame corresponding with the heat that the roots receive from 
the hot-air chamber underneath. When the plants extend to 
the sides of the frame, I cover the flues with mould, so that the 
plants may have at least 15 in. of soil for their rocts to grow in. 
I sow the seed on a slight hot-bed in April, and the plants are 
ready in May to be planted in a bed of rich earth. I then sup- 
ply them well with water during the summer; and, by the 15th 
of September, I take as many cuttings of the plants as I think I 
shall want, and put them into 48-sized pots, one cutting in each 
pot. I then plunge the pots in a hot-bed, and shade them when 
the sun is strong. They will root freely in a few days. By the 
end of the month, I shift them into 32-sized pots; and, by the 
20th of October, plant them where they are to produce their 
fruit during the winter. Two plants under each light, I find, do 
better than more, and, if the cuttings have been well managed, 
fruit will be set on them before turning them out of their pots. 


Culture of Cereus speciosissimus. 389 


I have cut good fruit from plants treated in this manner, after 
they had been turned out of their pots.only ten days. I planted 
three hghts the 15th of last October; I cut by the 28th of the 
same month, and I have cut from three to six excellent ones 
every week since. My plants are now in good health, with 
plenty of fruit set, and good ones fit to cut; and, by being well 
attended to, they will produce fruit abundantly all the summer. 
I water very little after the second week of November, until the 
days begin to lengthen; and, as the plants advance in growth, I 
put a little mould on the strongest joints, which makes them pro- 
duce fresh roots: this makes the plants grow strong, and also 
swells the fruit much larger than they would be, if left to them- 
selves. My plants need very little cutting or stopping; for, bein 
cuttings taken from plants that have been in full bearing all the 
preceding seasons, they are not so apt to ramble as seedling 
plants. My liberal employer has lately built two very fine 
vineries. ‘The mode of forming an elevated border for the vines, 
and a method that Ihave adopted of pruning and training them, 
may form the subject of another letter. 

Northerwood, Feb. 15.1834. 


WE shall be happy to receive an account of the method of 
forming the border for the vines, and of training and pruning 
them. — Cond.. 


Art. XV. Short Communication. 


CEREUS speciostssimus. —In the month ef August I take off 
as many cuttings as I intend to strike, and suspend them by a 
string in the warmest part of the green-house, leaving them 
there for about three months. I then pot them in a compost, con- 
sisting of equal quantities of leaf mould and peat mould, mixed 
with one sixth part of thoroughly rotten dung. The pots I use 
are 48s or 60s, according to the size of the cuttings ; not more than 
one being put in each pot. After watering, I set the plants on a 
shelf in a warm part of the green-house, where they will bloom 
in the following spring. After the bloom is over, very little 
water is given for three months, in order to bring the plants into 
a state of repose. They are then shifted into larger pots, if ne- 
cessary; but, at all events, some of the old mould is removed, 
and some rich compost, such as that above described, is added. 
In this manner I raised a plant in the garden of Robert Searle, 
Esq., at Lympstone, in Devonshire, between 1827 and 1833, 
which is now 6 ft. high, and 5 ft. in circumference. It grows in 
around tub about 18in. in diameter, and 20 in. deep. — Wm. 
Dunsford. Horticultural Society's Garden, Chiswick, April, 1834. 

Vout, X.— No. 53. EE 


390 Lindley’s Ladies’ Botany. 


REVIEWS. 


Art. 1. Ladies’ Botany; or,a Familiar Introduction to the Study of the Na- 
tural System of Botany. By John Lindley, Ph.D. F.R.S. &c. &c. &c.5 
Professor of Botany in the University of London. S8vo, 302 pages, 25 
plates. London, 1834. 16s. plain, 1/. Is. coloured. 


We look upon this work as one which will do more towards rendering the 
study of botany popular, than any other which has appeared since botany be- 
came a science. Dr. Lindley has here done what, in 1825, we proposed for 
him to do in the Natural Arrangement Division of our Encyclopedia of Plants. 
It would, however, have occupied too much room in that work. 

The difference between this popular introduction to botany and all the other 
popular introductions which have preceded it is, that Dr. Lindley’s object is to 
make the reader acquainted with the nature of plants, while all the others at- 
tempt little more than endeavouring to teach the pupil how to find out their 
names. “ All seem curious,” Dr. Lindley observes, “to know something of the 
natural system, and many, no doubt, take infinite pains to understand it; but 
it is to be feared that a large portion of those who make the attempt are far 
from meeting with the success their industry deserves. On all hands they 
are told of its difficulties; books, instead of removing those difficulties, only 
perplex the readers by multitudes of unknown words, and by allusions which, 
however clear they may be to the experienced botanist, are anything rather 
than illustrative in the eyes of a beginner, who is often fairly lost ina laby- 
rinth of resemblances, differences, and exceptions. The cause of this lies not 
in the science itself, so much as in the books that are written concerning it. 
Since the appearance of my Introduction to the Natural System of Botany, in 
1830, several works of great merit have been published on the same subject 
both in this country and abroad; so that the student is abundantly supplied 
with guides; and, if his object be to understand it, as an important branch of 
natural science, they are sufficiently well.adapted to his purpose; but, for those 
who would become acquainted with botany as an amusement and a relaxation, 
these works are far too difficult. Treating the subject, as they do, in great 
detail, and without consideration for the unlearned reader, the language, the 
arguments, and the illustrations employed in them, must be unintelligible to 
those who have no previous acquaintance with botany. The characters of 
the natural groups or-orders, into which the vegetable kingdom is divided, are 
not, as a whole, susceptible of such an analysis as a young student is capable 
of following ; and I can quite understand how the whole system may appear 
to be an unintelligible mass of confusion. It has therefore occurred to me, 
that if, without sacrificing science, the subject could be divested of the many 
real, and of the still greater number of imaginary, difficulties that frighten 
students ; and if they could be taught to recognise the natural tribes of plants, 
not by mere technical characters, but by those simple marks of which the 
practised botanist exclusively makes use, a work in which such objects are 
attained might be found of some utility.” (p. 5.) 

The Ladies’ Botany consists of twenty-five letters, each letter being illus- 
trated by a copperplate engraving of the size of the page. The subject of 
each letter is one, two, or more of the natural orders. The engravings are 
all of plants common either in the fields or in the ordinary gardens of Bri- 
tain; and there is scarcely one of them that may not be easily procured by 
any person residing in the country. 

We consider it quite needless to recommend this work: it must find its 
way into the library of every lady; and it ought to be in the coat pocket of 
every young gardener. In its present form, however, it is too expensive for 
the last class of readers; for whom we would strongly recommend an edition 
with the engravings done on wood. Such an edition might very well be sold 


Hooker's Journal of Botany. 391 


at seven or eight shillings. As the work will soon be translated into French 
and German, as well as republished in America, casts of the wood engravings 
might be sold to the publishers in those countries, for as much as would 
returm to. the London publishers the prime cost; one third of that cost being, 
we believe, the usual rate at which such casts are sold. The copperplates 
might then be reserved for the coloured edition, which is quite cheap enough 
at a guinea, considering the very superior: style in which the colouring is done. 


Arr. HI. Hooker's Journal of Botany, &c. Part II. for July, p. 193. to 
p- 288. Six plates. 7s. 6d. 


We have noticed parts i. and ii. of this.work in p. 232., and expressed our satis- 
faction at its appearance. To the scientific botanist it must be highly accept- 
able; and, as we have already observed, it is not without popular interest. 
Mr. Hogge’s paper on the classical plants of Sicily is concluded. In it we find 
that Céltis australis, the European nettle tree, is considered, by Mr. Hogg, as 
the true lotus tree of the Lotophagi. The tree is described by Theophrastus 
as of about the height and figure of a pear-tree;. with fruit of about the size of 
a bean, placed like the berries of the myrtle, changing colour, and ripening as 
a bunch of grapes; sweet, pleasant, and wholesome ; and the food of the 
Lotophagi. Wee was. made of the berries; and the wood, which was of a 
dark colour, and hard, was used, among other purposes, for making flutes. 
The wood is still used in Sicily for making flutes and other musical instru- 
ments ; in France, hayforks are made of the branches ;- and, in Spain and 
Greece, the berries are still eaten. The seeds of Pinus Pinea are called 
Pinocchi in Italy and Sicily, and are used in desserts, puddings, and cakes, 
like almonds. A cone of this pine, fastened on the top of a staff adorned 
with wreaths or flowers, made the thyrsus of the Bacchanalians; which was a 
symbol of authority carried by the priest of Bacchus, and is frequently to be 
seen in ancient sculptures and pictures. Mr. Hoge supposes. the stone pine 
must originally have: been introduced from Greece into. Italy and Sicily, as he 
has never observed it in a natural wood, but only about villas and farm-houses. 
The young heads of Asparagus acutifolius and albus are cut from wild plants, 
and brought to table, in Sicily; they are thin, bitter, and often stringy, and 
form a poor substitute for the cultivated asparagus. Muscari comosum is 
common in the fields. According to Sibthorp, the bulbs of this hyacinth are 
still eaten in Greece. The berries of Smilax aspera, when ripe, are of a 
beautiful red colour, and are very ornamental: the plant grows as a creeper 
in the hedges, on trees, &c.; more especially the variety auriculata. The 
date palm is not uncommon in Sicily; and this tree, with the American 
aloe and the Indian fig, gives to the Sicilian landscapes:a singularly beautiful 
and almost Oriental appearance. The dwarf fan palm (Chamee'rops humilis) 
covers the wild uncultivated land and. hills of Sicily, as the furze does those 
of England. “ A kind of light but strong hat is made by neatly plaiting 
the leaves together; and the plant is used for brooms, seats for chairs, 
thatch for cottages, and many other purposes.” (p. 214.) The stems of the 
Artndo Donax, the cultivated or pipe reed, are used for “ many domestic 
purposes in Italy and Sicily; for fences in gardens and vineyards, for props to 
bind vines to, and for making shepherds’ pipes, distaffs, fishing-rods, walking- 
sticks, &c.” Wheat, for which Sicily has been celebrated from the very 
earliest period, is taken to certain places, named caricatorj, and warehoused in 
pits, to be ready for exportation. Oats are preserved in a similar manner in 
the south of Russia. “ The sugar cane, having been introduced from Africa, 
was some years ago much cultivated in the neighbourhood of Syracuse 
but of late it has been abandoned, on account of the trade with Brazil.” 
From the Ripidium Ravénnz, the Ravenna sugar cane, the shepherds’ pipes 
are also sometimes made. The common rice is cultivated extensively near 
Lentini; and the air there is rendered very unwholesome by the putrefaction 

EE 2 


392 Royle’s Botany, Sic. of the Himalayan Mountains. 


of the water and vegetation, occasioned by the intense heat of a burning sun. 
The Indian corn, or maize, is roasted when half ripe, and eaten by the common 
people; the flour is the real Italian polenta. The Papyrus antiquorum has 
been long naturalised in Sicily. It was considered by Dioscorides as one of 
the most useful of all plants. ‘“ The different purposes to which it was applied 
by the ancients, im addition to the making of paper, are these: im medicine, 
for the cure of fistulae and ulcers; for food to the natives, who chewed it 
either raw, boiled, or roasted, for the sake of its sweet juice; and for torches 
and candles; boats, sails, mats, garments, coverlets, and ropes were formed 
of it; and the roots were used as fuel, and for making cups and wther uten- 
sils.” (p. 219.) Mr. Hogg has treated on “ vessels made of the papyrus,” in 
our Mag. Nat. Hist., in a paper which excited intense interest at the time of 
its publication : it is beautifully illustrated by engravings. (See Mag. Nat. 
Hist., vol. ii. p. 324. to p. 332., and figs. 88. to 92.) “ The head of the flower- 
stem of papyrus, resembling a thyrsus of many grassy filaments, was used to 
crown the statues of the gods, and to adorn the temples in Egypt. The 
Egyptian priests likewise wore shoes made of it ; and the plant is of frequent 
‘eccurrence in the ancient hieroglyphics. The papyrus has long been natu- 
ralised in Sicily; and flourishes in abundance on the banks of the small river 
which rises in the clear and limpid fountain of Cyane, now called La Pisma, - 
and joins the Anapus a little before it flows into the great port to the south- 
-west of Syracuse. ‘To this spot the papyrus, in all probability, was originally 
introduced, either from Egypt or Carthage. It is not seen growing spenta- 
neously in any other river in Sicily. One of the largest heads, gathered in 
La Pisma on May 31. 1826, measured 19%in. in length; and the number of 
its umbellulz was 397. It grows to the height of 22 ft. or 25 ft. Paper 
is sometimes prepared from it, merely as a curiosity, and sold at Syracuse.” 
(p. 221.) This very interesting paper concludes with an enumeration ef the 
plants found by Mr. Hogg, arranged according to the natural system, and 
amounting to 160 species. 

There are a number of other-articles in this part of the Journal of Botany, 
but they chiefly consist of scientific matter. 


Art. III. Royle’s Iuustrations of the Botany and other Branches of the Naturae 
History of the Himalayan Mountains, and of the Flora of Cashmere, &c. Part 
IIL, containing p. xii. to xx. of the Introduction, and p. 73. to 104. of the 
Illustrations of the Natural Orders; with one plate of fossil plants, one of 
animals, and eight of living plants; the latter and the animals beautifully 
coloured. London, folio. 20s. 


We have noticed part ii. of this work in p. 149., and part 1.m IX. 691., and 
‘we have now to state that, as it advances, its execution continues to be of 
first-rate excellence. The intreductory matter of the present part relates 
‘chiefly to the height of the Himalayan Mountains, of which there are twenty- 
eight peaks higher than the peak of Chimborazo, which exceeds 20,000 ft. ; 
while one of the peaks of the Himalayas is 25,000 ft. high. The illustrations 
of the botany of the Himalayan Mountains commences with the conclusion of 
the order Capparideze. It appears that as the flower buds of the Capparis 
spinosa are employed in Europe as a seasoning, so the fruit of C. aphylla is 
in India formed into a pickle. The flower-buds and seeds of the caper of 
Mount Sinai (C. sinaica) are alse pickled. _Under Polygalez it is stated that 
P. crotalaridides is employed as a cure against the bites of snakes; as is P. 
Sénega in South America. Under Linez, we are mformed that the common 
flax is cultivated everywhere in India, but only on account of its seed, the 
mucilage of which is used in medicine, and the oil in the arts. The stalks of 
the plant, which in other countries are most valued, are in India thrown away; 
and other plants, such as Hibiscus cannabinus, and Crotalaria cannabina are 
eultivated almost in the same field, for the very products that the flax would 


General Notices. : 393 


yield. (p.82.)' Under Malvacez, anumber of different species are mentioned 
as affording fibres which are used in India as substitutes for hemp ;, and the 
flowers of Malva Alcéa, and. Hibiscus Rosa sinénsis, having an astringent pro- 
perty, are employed both in India and in China for blackening the eyebrows, 
and also the shoes. The mucilage afforded by all the Malvacee, the Bom- 
bacez, Byttneridcee, and the Tiliaceze (which Mr. Royle agrees with Mr. Brown 
in thinking ought to be united into. one order), being entirely innoxious, might 
be seasoned, and used as food. The cotton plants, species of Gossypium, 
belong to the Malvacez, which, relatively to warm climates, must be considered 
as a very, important order. A proportionate space is in consequence given to 
describe the culture of the cotton plant in different parts of India. Under 
Byttneridcee we are informed, on the authority of Dr. Lindley, that the gum 
tragacanth of Sierra Leone is produced by a species of Sterculia. Several plants 
in this. order, as might be expected, afford fibres which make a good substitute 
for hemp. All the families in the order Tliacez, such as Cérchorus, Trium- 
fétta, and Gréwia, afford mucilage, and a tenacious fibre that may be used either 
for making flax, or mats, like the European. garden mats, which are formed 
from the Vilize. It is remarked that the inner bark of the Gréwza oppositifolia 
is used in the Himalaya for the same purpose that the bark. of the T'ilia europea. 
is in Russia and Sweden. The leaves of the different species of Gréwia are 
given as fodder to cattle, and are dried and stacked. up for-winter use, as those, 
of the lime tree and the birch are in Sweden. It is exceedingly interesting 
thus to observe the same general character of climate accompanied by the same 
natural orders of vegetables; and that these vegetables are applied to the 
same general. purposes by the inhabitants. In conclusion, we have only to 
observe, that. the author has shown a superior degree of taste and judgment, 
in generalising his subject by comparing the productions of the Himalaya with 
those of other countries. The book is remarkably well got up (to use a 
publisher’s term), and it ought certainly to find its way into. the library of 
every botanist. 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. 1. General Notices. 


ForMATION of Ground Ice.—In p. 118. we have noticed a theory on. the sub- 
ject of ground ice, by M. Arago, as given in Jameson's Journal; and we have now 
to notice another, by the Rev. Mr. Eisdale, as given in the same work, for July, 
1834. We are induced to do so, because we think Mr. Eisdale’s theory ac- 
counts more satisfactorily for the phenomena than that of M. Arago. Ground 
ice, it appears, is never formed but in streams, and after a severe hoar-frost. 
“ The hoar-frost, which is congealed moisture, precipitated from: the atmo-, 
sphere, and falling into the river when the water is cooled down to the freez- 
ing point, cannot be dissolved. It retains in the water the very shape in 
which it descends from the air. When these small crystals fall on a deep 
unfrozen pool, the water being above the freezing point, the particles melt, 
and are incorporated with the water; but, in a shallow and agitated stream, 
almost the whole water is brought, in succession, into contact with the intense, 
frost, and may thus be cooled down to the freezing point to the very bottom 
of the stream, before even a pellicle of ice is formed on the stagnant pool. 
All the particles of hoar-frost, then, or frozen vapour, which fall on such a 
stream, will remain unmelted ; and, being tossed in all directions by the agita- 
tions of the current, will be brought into contact with the rocks, or other 
substances projecting from the bottom, to which they will readily adhere, and 
form a nucleus for that strange accumulation called ground ice, which is found 
nowhere but in streams.” (Jameson’s Jour., vol. xvii. p. 172.) Sinee the 

EE 3 


394 Domestic Notices : — England. 


above was transcribed, we have seen Mr. Greenshields of Englefield Park 
Gardens, who is well acquainted with the Vale of Kennet. He states that 
there is an immense deal of hoar-frost there, over all that part-of the vale 
where the soil is a moist clay, and very little where it is a dry sand. The 
irregular outline of the moist clay district on each side of the vale is as dis- 
tinctly marked by the hoar-frost as if it were confined with a wall. Mr. 
Greenshields thinks Mr. Eisdale’s theory very likely to be a true one. 

The Faculties of Mind necessary to form a Botanist. — Dr. Daubeny very cor- 
rectly considers him “a botanist whose mind is imbued with the great principles 
by means of which plants can be collected into natural groups, and who 
strives to discover the general relation in which these groups stand toward 
each other; in short, who labours to construct a method, where the very 
place which a plant occupies in it shall, in a manner, announce its most pro- 
minent characters, the qualities it may possess, and its affinities with others. 
We hold the pertinacious attachment to the artificial system to be the cause 
of the low degree of estimation in which botanical science is, therefore, de- 
servedly held in this country. If we are right in this opinion, it is certainly 
greatly to be regretted that that which was formerly dignified with the name 
of botany should yet linger in our schools, or that any should be found to 
teach it, since there has arisen in its stead a science which is beautiful, philo- 
sophical, and capable of the most varied and useful applications; capable of 
being applied to medicine, horticulture, entomology, chemistry, and, above 
all, to climatology, and, consequently, to geology. The method of Jussieu 
does, for the vegetable kingdom, that which the method of MacLeay does for 
the animal, viz., by putting usin possession of a single fact, or a few facts, it 
confers upon us the power of inferring many more, relating not.only to the 
structure of the plants, but to the juices circulating in the vessels, and the 
products elaborated therefrom. If something more than the.xame-of a plant 
be to be comprehended in betanical arrangements, Jet us imitate the example 
of Linnzeus, who, conscious of the inadequacy of his artificial system to serve 
the cause of genuine botany, wisely abandoned it, and devoted himself to 
devising a natural method, and called upon all botanists to assist in‘accom- 
plishing-so desirable an object. Let us no longer cling to this system, which 
has been expelled from almost every other country of Europe, but rather let 
us cast it, ike an idle weed, away, which cannot be suffered longer to deform 
the fair garden of philosophic truth.” (London and Edinburgh Phil. Jour., 
vol. v. p. 76.) 

Influence of Colour on‘Heat, the Deposition of Dew, and of Odours.—Dr. Stark, 
in a paper in Jameson's Journal, vol. xvii. p. 65., has shown, by experiment, 
that one principle operates in the production of all the above results. A 
black colour, whether in-solids or fluids, absorbs heat most rapidly, and parts 
with it most rapidly ; dew is also deposited more rapidly on this colour than 
on any other, and with proportionate rapidity evaporated from it. Odours, 
whether agreeable, offensive, or of infectious diseases, are, in like manner, 
absorbed with greater rapidity, and in greater quantity, in a given time, by 
black colours; and discharged by these colours with proportionate quickness. 
The other colours are next effective to black in the order of blue, brown, 
green, red, yellow, and lastly white; which last absorbs and gives out heat, 
dew, and odour more slowly than any other colour. These facts will afford 
valuable hints to gardeners for the colours of walls, of walks, of rockwork, 
of soils, of coverings for protection, and even of their dresses. 


ArT. II. Domestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


A GARDEN School, in which boys will be taught gardening, agriculture, and 
rural economy generally; and girls, sewing, cookery, and domestic economy 
in all its details, is about to be established at Fordhook by Lady Noel Byron. 


Domestic Notices : — England. 395 


Her Ladyship has engaged, as head master of the establishment, Mr. Craig, 
who had formerly the care of the agricultural school established by the late 
Mr. Vandeleur in the south of Ireland, and who is now on his way to Switzer- 
land, to inspect the establishment of M. Fellenberg at Hofwyl. 

A Design for the Sheffield Botanic Garden, by Wm. Billinton, Esq., architect 
and civil engineer, has been sent us by that gentleman, with a request that we 
should give our opinion of it in this Magazine. — It is neatly drawn, and the 
ground plan of the building is very architectural. There is also a terrace 
walk, which would have a very good effect: but when we have said this, we 
have included nearly all that we can commend. The roads and walks are 
curvilineal, without, in many cases, a sufficiently obvious reason; the arbo- 
retum is confined to two compact clumps, not more than large enough for 
two or three orders; there is a small space for the natural system of herba- 
ceous plants, equally disproportionate ; a large space for the Linnzean arrange- 
ment, and a plot of beds radiating from the centre like the spokes of a wheel. 
The latter may please some eyes on paper, but in execution it would be into- 
lerable, both in point of beauty and use. To render such a mode of radiating 
beds at all tolerable, the general figure ought to be circular. Here it is a 
parallelogram, with a triangle added to each end. If any one will try to 
radiate beds from the centre of such a figure, he will find what a very awkward 
impracticable result he will produce. We shall not say more; indeed, we are 
sorry to have been obliged to say so much, considering the very candid and 
liberal manner in which Mr. Billinton requests us to give our opinion on his 
plan publicly. It is, however, as we have before observed, p. 276., no. dis- 
paragement to an architect not to be also a gardener. Mr. Billinton, we 
have no doubt, could do honour to our Architectural Magazine, and we invite 
him to become a contributor to that work. — Cond. 

By the Use of hot Water at Wallington, the seat of Sir John Trevelyan, in 
Northumberland, 90 loads of coals, out of 220, were saved the first year. The 
value of these coals, including carriage, is about 6s.a ton. Instead of nine 
fires to four houses, there are now only two fires. The level system of circu- 
lating the water is adopted, and the work was executed by Mr. Cookson, iron- 
founder, of Newcastle. — 7. July 8. 1834. 

An Elevation and Section of a Peach-House, erected in 1830 for Lord Yar- 
borough, at Brocklesby in Lincolnshire, have been sent us by the builder, Mr. 
Crosskill of Beverley, mentioned p. 277., accompanied with a description by 
the gardener at Brocklesby, Mr. Hedges. The house is 106 ft. long, and 11 ft. 
wide, in three equal divisions. The rafters are cast iron, and the sashes are 
of wood. In the front wall, and in the upper part of the back wall, there 
are cast-iron ventilators fixed in the manner of the shutters described and 
figured in II. 201. These ventilators are moved sympathetically by iron rods 
and pinions, and they have been in use three years without having gone out 
of order. The three divisions are heated by hot water from one fire, the 
upper pipe is flat, 18 in. broad, and 3 in. deep; and the returning pipe is circu- 
lar, and about 4 in. in diameter. The whole is very satisfactery to Mr. 
Hedges, who, in his letter, bestows great praise on Mr. Crosskill, for the 
superior manner in which the work is executed. The cost, exclusive of the 
bricks, lime, and sand, was 1006/. — Cond. 

The Irish Furze (Ulex europe\a var. stricta), as a Forage Plant. — It has 
recently been found in Caernarvonshire, and other parts of North Wales, that this 
variety of the common furze may be more profitably cultivated in the field than 
the species. The reason is, the branches, when cut for use, do not require 
braising before being given to horses or cattle. As this variety very rarely 
produces flowers or seeds, it is propagated by cuttings, which, however, strike 
in a bed of sandy soil as readily as willows. The cuttings should be taken off 
in the autumn, of the present year’s wood, and they need not be above 3in. long. 
They will be fit to transplant in the March or April following, and in the 
succeeding autumn they may be cut over with the scythe for the first time. 
We consider this a very interesting fact, and one which shows that it is from 

HE 4 


396 Domestic Notices :—Scotland. 


varieties, and hybrids, and even from monstrosities, which this is, that we are 
to procure the most valuable plants-of culture. This has been well pointed 
out in Bishop’s Causal Botany. — Cond. 

A Collection of Hearteases, exceeding one hundred in number, was exhibited 
at the Metropolitan Flewer Show at Salt Hill, June 19., and brought to Bays- 
water, for us to look at, on the following day. They had all been raised from 
seeds, by Mr. John Joseph Allnatt, junior, of Wallingford (mentioned p. 5.), 
within three years. A pan of flowers, selected from his seedling plants of 
1833 and 1834, won the King William medal at the above show, although ex- 
hibited against selected varieties from various sources. In Mr. Allnatt’s pan, 
not a flower of one.old variety was shown. We took down the names of the 
following, of the varieties raised by Mr. Allnatt in 1833:— Allnatt’s Achilles, 
Orpheus, Ajax, Plato, Arcadia, Hecuba, maculdsa, spléndens, zebrina, re- 
gina, and tigrina. Maculdsa has a large corolla, with a yellow ground, and 
three or four pretty violet spots towards the centre of the upper petals. The 
striped kinds,.as zebrina, &c., were very pleasing. After this show, Mr. All- 
matt offered publicly to show a hundred varieties of this flower, against the 
same number, by any other grower, for 10/. The varieties shown us were of 
very great beauty, and remarkably distinct, considering the great general re- 
semblance of one heartsease to another. Amongst the flowers of seedlings, 
which have blossomed this year (1834) for the first time, a few showed a 
strong tendency towards a tint of crimson, which is the rarest of colours in 
the flowers of the heartsease; these Mr. Allnatt much esteems, and is san- 
guine enough to hope that, in the known-susceptibility of sportiveness in the 
heartsease, kinds with corollas more and more tinted with crimson may be 
produced. All Mr. Allnatt’s varieties may be purchased from Mr. Hogg, at 
Paddington ; who is appointed his sole agent in London. It is a remarkable 
fact, that, frem-a capsule of seeds gathered from the finest cultivated varieties 
of heartsease, plants perfectly wild, both in their foliage and their flowers, will 
frequently be produced. In Jike manner, in cultivated fields and gardens, we 
occasionally find a fine variety of heartsease, which seems te have sprung at 
once from.seeds of the wild variety. We believe this to be more or less the 
case with all cultivated annuals, or plants of short duration; but the transition 
is by ne means:so easy with regard to fruit trees, for the seeds of a golden 
pippia, or a Hawthornden, though they may produce some varieties unlike 
the plant, will never produce a genuine crab.—Jd, 

Orchideous Plants from.the Caraccas.— Sir Robert Ker Porter has promised 
me a supply of rarities from Caraccas, for the arrival of which I am looking 
out with considerable anxiety. These, he informs me, will .comsist of mare- 
posas (orchideous plants,); the flor de Mayo, or lirio de los valles (the lily 
of the valley); most probably an AmaryYllis, Crinum, or Pancratium; and 
one or two more lirios (lilies), one.of which he describes.as being of a most 
beautiful crimson. ‘To these, from a former letter, I am led to expect, will be 
added some roots of the appio, the root of which is a valuable esculent. 
— W. Hamilton. 

A Box of Orchideous Plants and Bulbs, including above fifty species, has 
been shipped from Demerara, for Messrs. Low and Co., of the Clapton Nur- 
sery, by Mr. John Henchman, the botanical collector for that establishment. 
We anticipate some valuable additions from a region hitherto but little ex- 
plored by collectors. — Cond. 


SCOTLAND. 


Comparative Trial of Walls of different Kinds.— The Caledonian Horticultural 
Society has published a Garden Report, dated June 1., from which it ap- 
pears some trials have been made of the difference of temperature between 
a_ loping wall inclined to the horizon at an angle of about 50°, a wall coloured 
black, and a perpendicular wall; and, between perpendicular walls of free- 
stone, whinstone (basalt), and brick. It appears that the sloping, the black, 
and the freestone walls, all indicate the same temperature at 6 o'clock in the 


Domestic Notices : — Scotland. 397 


morning; but that the average temperature of the brick wall, at that early 
hour, is, during April, a degree colder. This brick wall, however, being 
more porous, and retaining a greater quantity of heat, has shown, during May, 
a considerably higher temperature than any of the others, owing to the in- 
creased influence of the sun. At 1 o’clock p.m. the average temperature of 
the sloping wall is 7° higher than that of the brick wall. The next warmest 
at that hour is the dark-coloured or whinstone wall, which is only 3° lower 
than that of the sloping wall. At the same hour, the freestone is 5° colder 
than the sloping wall, or 2° inferior to the whinstone. At 6 o’clock P.M., 
the sloping wall is 2° warmer than the freestone and the brick walls, and 5° 
warmer than the whinstone wall, which last, at that time, is the coldest of 
all the walls. The results will be more satisfactorily ascertained when the 
fruit of a cherry tree, a vine, or a peach, trained on the sloping wall, have 
been compared with that of one of the same kind placed against the perpen- 
dicular freestone wall. When hoar-frost forms, the sloping wall becomes the 
coldest during the night, by 2° or 3°, or perhaps more. To render it effec- 
tive, therefore, it will be indispensable to have a covering of thin canvass 
drawn over it during the night. 

A Strawberry Wall,on Mr.Byers’s plan (V.438.), has been formed, and placed 
in the direction of north and south, on a surface declining to the horizon, 
at an angle of about 250°. For this reason the water furrow along the crest 
or ridge of the wall has stops at various places, to allow the water to be 
equally absorbed. The advantages anticipated are, increased surface for the 
plants, and an earlier crop of clean fruit, easily gathered. 

Of Grapes, between twenty and thirty sorts have been proved, and their 
description, by Mr. Barnet, will be useful in the preparation of a new edition 
of the Horticultural Society’s Fruit Catalogue. The following sorts appear 
to us the newest, or the most worthy of notice : — 

Fruit white, oblong; leaves obtusely lobed.—Savagnien Blanc. Clusters 
small, compact; berries transparent, light green, of a rich musky sweet fla- 
your; leaves dense, downy beneath. This variety was presented to the So- 
ciety by John Robison, Esg., who kindly procured a collection of the finest 
table-grapes from Bordeaux. The fruit, being produced in the peach-house, 
has probably not been properly ripened, for want of sufficient heat. 

_ Loudon’s Seedling. A large showy variety; clusters large, and much 
branched, the branchlets being divided; berries large, oblong, of a greenish- 
yellow colour; seeds small; flesh firm, juicy, sweet, and high-flavoured ; 
leaves large, slightly lobed, slightly serrated ; a great bearer ; readily produces 
a second crop, especially when grown in a pine-stove. Raised from seed in, 
the garden of H. Menteith, Esq., of Carstairs, by the gardener, Mr. Robert 
Loudon. [Should our namesake see this, we will thank him for a cutting.] 

Malvoisie. This is a small grape, and seems to set sparingly; the clusters 
and berries small, oblong, and pointed at the ends; of a bright light green, 
transparent; flavour rich and Meee seeds large, but, from being grown 
in the peach-house, evidently not in perfection; the leaves are small, round, 
slightly lobed, with large coarse serratures, of cucullated form. This is one 
of a collection received from Bordeaux by John Robison, Esq., as noticed 
above. 

Black or Red, fruit oblong.—West’s Saint Peter. Clusters large, long, and 
not much branched; berries middle-sized, oblong, approaching to round, of 
a deep bluish-black, with a glaucous bloom; footstalks short; flesh firm, juicy, 
with peculiar rich light flavour; seeds middle-sized ; skin thin; a great bearer, 
and ripens late; the fruit hangs on the plant a considerable time without 
shriveling; and the plant retains its leaves, which are of a deep green colour, 
slightly lobed, sharply and doubly serrated; footstalks and leaves slender ; 
the leaves are stained with red towards decay. The best late grape that has 
come under my observation. 

* Frankenthal- Clusters large and branched; berries large, round, or ap- 
proaching to oblong, of a shining black colour; glaucous; seeds small; flavour 


398 Domestic Notices : — Scotland. 


rich; a good bearer, and ripens late. This is only a subvariety of Black 
Hamburgh; the chief difference being, that it is more oblong, and more 
irregular in shape. 

Black ‘Tripol. Clusters long and much branched ; branchlets branching ; 
ripens late; berries small, globular, or approaching to oblong, with short 
footstalks ; of a brownish-red colour, tender and juicy, sweet and high-fla- 
voured; leaves large; footstalks short, reclined; lobes moderately deep, 
coarsely and unequally serrated; seeds small, adhering to the footstalk ; skin 
thin and shriveling, having the appearance of the currants of the shops; a 
good grape, but rather delicate. The variety was received among a collection 
from the Duke of Portland’s, at Welbeck, and is probably the same as that 
mentioned in Mr. Lindley’s Guide to the Orchard, p. 192. no.v. 

Blue Tokay. An abundant bearer, and ripens early; the clusters very 
small, and scarcely branched; berries small, globular, of a brownish-blue 
colour; flavour sweet and rich; seeds large; skin tough; leaves small, lobed, 
finely serrated, of thick texture, downy below; the juice is very rich. This 
is the Blue Tokay of Lindley, p. 198. no. xx., certainly not the Malvoisie, as 
received from Bordeaux, there quoted as a synonyme from Bradley ; but I 
have not at present an opportunity of referring to that author. 

De la Belgique. This variety with us is rather a shy bearer, and ripens 
late; clusters long and much branched; branchlets branchy ; berries of mo- 
derate size, almost globular, or more long, of a rich bluish-black, and fine 
glaucous hue, closely set; the peduncles short, forming a close bunch ; juicy, 
flavour tolerable; seeds large; skin tough; leaves large, slightly lobed, ser-— 
rated ; upper surface slightly hoary, tomentose below ; footstalks long, slightly 
stained with reddish-brown; rather coarse, but probably pretty hardy. Pre- 
sented to the Society by M. Bosc, Director of the Jardin des Plantes; not 
mentioned in any of the books that have been examined; bears a slight 
resemblance to the Esperione, but the bunches are double the size of those of 
that variety. 

Red Muscadel. Clusters long and scarcely branched; berries middle- 
sized, oblong, of a brownish-red colour; flesh of firm texture; seeds large ; 
flavour sweet and pretty good; leaves large, deeply lobed, coarsely serrated, 
light shining green; ripens late, and keeps long on the plant. 

Blue Raisin. Clusters very large and showy, much branched, the foot- 
stalks short; the berries large, eblong, of green mixed with brownish-red, 
seeds large, adhering to the footstalk, fleshy and firm; ripens very late. 
Among other grapes in the vinery, it seems not to ripen, which is the only 
situation in which I have had an opportunity of seeing it. 

Chasselas Rouge. This sort only fruited very sparingly. The berries are 
middle-sized, of a brownish-red colour, transparent ; flesh firm, sweet, and 
high-flavoured ; seeds small; leaves supported on long red-coloured footstalks ; 
and the leaves conspicuously coloured with red ribs, not much cut, slightly 
serrated. As far as my observations go, this seems an excellent grape, with 
a good light flavour. Received from Bordeaux through the kindness of 
John Robison, Esq. Sec. R.S.E.— P. N. 

A new and curious Variety of Poa nemoralis.— I have lately found a grass 
the most curious I have seen or heard of. It is a variety of the Poa nemo- 
ralis, with the culm or stalk about as white as this paper. The foliage is 
green, with a small white streak up the back rib. The enveloping spathe and 
grass are also of a beautiful deep green, as are the flowers or parts of fructi- 
fication, though the peduncles are white. If it retains its white colour after 
drying, of which I entertain some doubts, it would far surpass any bleached 
straw for plait.— A. Gorrie. Annat Gardens, June 26. 1834. 

This must prove an interesting variety, if it should not revert to the usual 
green condition of the species, to cultivate in a shaded border in a garden. 
I ence met with a strikingly pale-panicled variety of Dactylis glomerata. 


Floricultural and Botanical Notices. 399 


Art. III. Floricultural and Botanical Notices of new Plants, and of 
old Plants of Interest, supplementary to the latest Editions of the 
‘* Encyclopedia of Plants,” and of the *‘ Hortus Britannicus.” 


Curtis's Botanical Magazine ; each monthly Number containing eight plates; 
3s. 6d. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Hooker, King’s Professor of 
Botany in the University of Glasgow. 

Edwards’s Botanical Register ; each monthly Number containing eight plates; 
4s. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Lindley, F.R.S., Professor of Botany 
in the London University. 

Sweet's British Flower-Garden ; each monthly Number containing four plates ; 
3s. coloured, 2s. 3d. plain. Edited by David Don, Esq., Librarian to the 
Linnzan Society. 


PoLypPEeTALous DicoryLEDONOUS PLANTS. 
Ill. Ranunculacee. 


1637. RANU’NCULUS 14562 millefoliatus. [Sw. fl. gar. 2, s. 248 

2 grandifldrus D. Don large-flowered *% yor Zap. Y Mt. St. Angelo, Naples 1833. D It. 

“ R. garganicus Tenore,” D. Don, in Sw. FI. Gar., Gard. Mag. IX. 241., X. 341. 

Leaves tripinnately divided, with linear lanceolate segments. Stems several 
upon a plant, each usually single-flowered ; corolla and stamens of a golden 
yellow colour; corolla varying in size, sometimes 13 in. across. Figured from 
the collection of Mrs. Marryat; whose daughter, Mrs. Palliser, received it, 
from Professor Tenore, under the name of #. garganicus. (See X. 341.) 
Garganus is the ancient name of the Mount St. Angelo of the present day. 
(The Brit. Flow.-Gard., July.) 

XIII. Anonicee § Schizdndree Blume. 


SPHEROSTESMA Blume. (Sphaira, a globe, stéma, a stamen ; the filaments of the stamens, 
which are in number many, are all coadunate into a fleshy solid mass, the anthers only being at 
liberty, and nestling in a number of little excavations of the mass.) 22. 12. Sp. 1.— 

[Bot. reg. 1688 
propinquum Blume near akin (0? Kadstra) $ ({) or 10? jl Y¥ Nipal 1828? Cpl 
The male sex only of the species is yet alive in Britain. 

A shrub with a twining glabrous habit, and aromatic leaves; which last are 
ovate acuminate, toothed, petioled, and alternate. The male flowers are of 
about the breadth of a shilling, and solitary, on not long footstalks, in the axils 
of the leaves: each consists of three green sepals, and three yellow petals, and, 
in the centre of these, the yellow anther-bearing mass. Dr. Wallich found this 
species in Nipal, on Mount Sheopore, and on hills about Sankoo. Dr. Lindley 
has deemed it, in Britain, “ a hot-house climber ;”’ and has added : — “ It is 
easily propagated by cuttings ; and, in the fertile state [the female sex of it], 
must be a handsome plant, with its long pendulous spikes of scarlet berries. 
Unfortunately, the plant which flowered in the garden of the Horticultural 
Society last July, and from which our drawing was taken, was a male; so 
that we are not likely to see these berries until a fresh importation of plants 
shall have taken place.’ We are, nevertheless, very glad to be able to learn 
thus much of the male only. (Bot. Reg., July.) 

XLVII. Onagrarie § Fuchsite. I send you some showy flowers of a 
hybrid fuchsia between Fuchsia gracilis and F. coccinea, which I have raised 
in this garden [that of J. H. Tremayne, Esq., Heligan, Cornwall]. It is planted 
in the open ground; and was not, last winter (this being very mild), cut down 
by the frost. The plant is 5 ft. high, and 15 ft. in circumference, and is loaded 
with flowers: these are much larger, and of a better colour, than those of the 
F, virgata, and render the plant a very showy one: it has been admired by all 
who have seen it.— John Roberts. Heligan, Cornwall, June 26. 

The flowers of the hybrid are large and showy. From the tip of the germen 
to the tip of the stigma is a length of 24in.; the segments of the coloured 
calyx are 1 in. long. 

LXXVII. Leguminise. 


LUPINUS densiflbrus, of which we have quoted an account inp. 173,, is figured in Bot, Reg, 1689. 


400: Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


- © Seeds of it have been hitherto produced by it in such small quantities, 
that it still remains extremely rare.” 


2837. ACA*CIA. 4 
+24679 elongata Steb. long-branched 2% \_J or 6 ap.jn Y N.S.W. 1823. C slip Bot, mag. 3337 
$24716 umbrdsa Cun.  shade-inhabiting %\_| fra25sp Pa.Y N.S.W. 1823. Cs.p Bot. mag. 3338 


' Both these are figured from specimens supplied from the Kew collection ; 
and the descriptions of them include notes on them by Mr. Allan Cunning- 
ham. A. elongata is of a slender and graceful habit, and has drooping angular 
branches, narrow linear phyllodia (leaves) 3in. or more in length, and nume- 
rous globose heads, about the size of a pea, of rather deep yellow scentless 
flowers produced two or three together, upon peduncles rather more than 
half an inch long, from the axils of the phyllodia (leaves). A. umbrosa 
delights in dry shaded woods in New South Wales. The phyllodia are 4 in. 
or 5 in. long, oblong-lanceolate, marked with two or three strong nerves. The 
flowers are produced in Britain in the spring, are powerfully fragrant, pale 
yellow, clustered into many globose heads, which are disposed, from seven to 
nine, upon axillary racemes. (Bot. Mag., July.) 

‘ CXIa. Cérnee Dec. Of Benthamia fragifera, Mr. John Roberts, gardener 
to J. H. Tremayne, Esq., Heligan, Cornwall, has sent us some specimens i 
flower. His letter is dated June 26. The specimens quite confirm the idea 
of the desirableness of this shrub, already given, with other particulars respect- 
ing it, in [X. 367., X. 60.69. The specimens (two) appear to be the tips of 
two branches: one of these bears eight branchlets, and seven of them are, and 
the eighth has been, terminated each by a head of flowers, green, small, sub- 
tended by four large cream-yellow involucral leaves; the other specimen has 
three branchlets, each tipped with a head of flowers attended by the involucral 
leaves. Only some few of the individual flowers in the heads were bearing 
petals. The plant, Mr. Roberts informs us, is 17 ft. high, spreads proportion- 
ably, and has its stem, at the bottom, 12 ft. in circumference ; and presents the 
appearance of a small tree. With regard to the climate of Heligan, Mr. Ro- 
berts has known the snow to lie on the ground for three weeks; and has 
seen the thermometer as low as it has been in London. 

CXXIV. Tropeilee. 


CHYMOCA/’RPUS D. Don. (Chymos, juicy, kanpos, fruit ; the fruit is a black juicy berry.) 
8.1. Sp. 1—2.— [Sw. fl. gar. 2. s. 245 
+9316 pentaphyllus D. Don _ five-leafleted-ifd. 8 AJor 4 au.o R.G.P Buenos Ayres 1830. C s.p.l 
Tropz*olum pentaphyllum. Lam. Mr. D. Don deems this plant the type of a new genus, which he 
has named as above. He has given his reasons at length in Linn. Trans., xvii. p. 14. and 145. 
From the Flower-Garden, we may just quote as follows : — “‘ The most remarkable peculiarity is 
in the nature of its fruit, which is a black juicy berry, not unlike, both in appearance and 
flavour, the Zante grape. Besides the reduced number of its petals [there are but two], a cha- 
racter the importance of which I am not disposed to insist much upon, the genus likewise differs 
in the persistent nature and valvate estivation of its calyx, that of Tropz‘olum being imbricate 
and deciduous. I am inclined to think that T. dipétalum Flor. Peruv. will prove a second 
species of Chymocarpus ; and it is possible that Tropz‘olum may include the types of other 
genera, when the nature of the fruit in the different species becomes better known. Chy- 
mocarpus pentaphyllus is stated to have been introduced in 1824; but this information is 
erroneous, the plant having been first raised by Mr. Neill, in 1830, from seeds collected at Buenos 
Ayres by Mr. Tweedie.” 


’ Chymocaérpus pentaphyllus D. Don, planted early in summer, in an open 
border, in a mixture of sandy peat and loam, has been found to thrive much 
more vigorously than when retained in the green-house, to produce a pro- 
fusion of blossoms, and ripen its fruit freely. Cuttings, planted in pure sand, 
and placed in a hot-bed, root readily. (Zhe Brit. Flow.-Garden, July.) 

- CXXX. Violdcee. 


701. VI.OLA 5708 pedata. ; 
2 flabellata D. Don fanzlfd. Y A orio Li.P Georgia 1831. Dp Sw.fl.gat.2.s,247 
Dr. Graham and Mr. D. Don concur in deeming this plant but a variety of VY. pedata L., and the 
V. digitata Ph. as identical with this variety. Mr. D. Don thinks that the V. flabellifolia of 
Lodd. Bot. Cab. 777. is also identical with it. P 


' The leaves are divided in a fan-like manner. The corolla is large, and very 
handsome: lowest petal pale lilac on the inside; the two uppermost, and the 
upper half of the two side ones, dark velvet purple; behind, all the petals are 
of a pale lilac. “ The plant is extremely beautiful, and highly deserving of 
cultivation in the open border. It was introduced by Mr. Drummond, from 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 401 


“Georgia, into the Botanic Garden, Glasgow; whence it was sent to the Bo- 
tanic Garden, Edinburgh, in 1832, and there it first produced a succession of 
flowers in the green-house, in the beginning of Oct. 1833.” (Dr. Graham, in 
Brit. Flow.-Garden, July.) 


APETALOUS DicoTryLEDONOUS PLANTS. 


LXXXIIa. Garryacezee Lindley. An order characterised in the Botanical 
Register for July, 1834: t. 1686.; and there stated to be allied to the Cupuli- 
ferze; to connect them with the Conifer; and also, by means of some 
similarities to the Chloranthee, with the Gnetdcee. 


GA/RRYA Lindl. (Named, by Mr. Douglas, in compliment to Nicholas Garry, Esq., secretary 
of the Hudson’s Bay Company ; to whose kindness and assistance he was much indebted during 
his travels in North-west America. — Lindley.) 21.4. Sp. 1.— 

elliptica Lindl. _elliptic-leafed %##cu60 G N. California 1828. L1 Bot. reg. 1686 ; 

The specimen figured is from a plant of the male sex, which flowered in the Horticultural Society’s 

garden in Oct. 1833. It is not stated that a female plant is alive in Britain. 

Very similar in appearance to a Vibtrnum. Its branches, when young, are 
pubescent and purplish; when older, smooth and greyish. Its leaves are 
opposite, devoid of stipules, shortly petiolate, oblong ; about, according to the 
figure, 2in. long and 1 in. broad; waved, acute, leathery, evergreen; dark 
green and smooth above; beneath hoary with simple twisted interwoven 
hairs. The flowers are disposed in pendulous tail-shaped catkins, of about 
from 4 in. to 5in. in length. It was introduced, in 1828, from Northern Ca- 
lifornia, where Mr. Douglas discovered it. In relation to British gardens, it 
‘may be deemed a hardy evergreen shrub : it prefers a loamy soil, and may be 
readily increased by layers. Dr. Lindley has remarked, that ‘‘ it is probable 
that it is the greatest botanical curiosity in all Mr. Douglas’s collections: for 
it appears to represent a natural order, on the one hand, altogether distinct 
from any previously known; and, on the other, connecting certain well-known 
natural orders in an unexpected and satisfactory manner.” Dr. Lindley has, 
in Bot. Reg. t. 1686., elucidated the characteristics of the plant, and his views 
of its affinities. (Bot. Reg., July.) 


Monopetatous DicortyLeponous Puants. 


CLXX. Ericacee D. Don. 

Mr. D. Don has, in the Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal for July, pro- 
duced “ An Attempt at a New Arrangement of the Ericacee.” This will be 
news of interest to botanical cultivators; all of whom have perceived that 
there has been much of heterogeneousness in the great collection of species 
hitherto referred to the genus Erica. Mr. D. Don says that “the examination 
of this interesting family [the Hricaceze, which include the andromedas, &c.] 
was undertaken with the view of assisting my brother in the laborious under- 
taking in which he is now engaged [the elaboration of the work, A General 
System of Gardening and Botany, by G. Don, F.L.S.]; and, as a complete ac- 
‘count of the species will appear in a forthcoming volume [vol. iii.} of that 
work, I have omitted most of them in the following pages,” &e. 

“ As happens in other very natural families, the characters of the generic 
‘groups in the Hricacez are not so strongly marked as in those that are less 
so; but we are not, on that account, to give up the idea of dividing them..... 
Whatever opinion may be formed of their title [that of the groups into which 
Mr. D. Don has divided the Fricacez], to rank as separate genera, the 
‘arrangement of the species will, I trust, be found more natural than any 
hitherto proposed.” 

The names of the proposed groups, the etymology of their names, and the 
species typical of the groups, are the following : — 


Erica (£. cinérea L.), Gypsocallis (etymon not given. ZH. vagans L.), Pachysa (pachys, thick; . 
substance of the corolla. #. ardens And7.), Ceramia (keramion, a little pitcher. #. urceolaris 
Soland.), Désmia (desmé, a little bundle; flowers crowded. &#. conferta And7.), Lurylepis 
(eurys, broad, depts, a scale; calycine scales dilated. EZ. Halicacaba L.), Eurystégia (ewrys, broad, 
stegé, a cover; calyx large. Z. glatica Andr.), Lophandra (dophos, crest, ané7 andros, a man or 
stamen ; cells of the anthers crested. #. pyramidalis Andr.), Lamprotis (Lamprotés, splendour ; 

. calyx glistening. J. calycina L.), Callista (kallistos, most beautiful. ZH, Walker¢ Andr.), Eury. 


402 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


Yoma (eurys, broad, 2oma, a margin; limb of the corolla dilated. E. Aitonz Willd.), Chona 
(choné, a funnel; figure of the corolla. ZH. sanguinea), Syringddea (syrigz syriggos, a reed or 
pire s corolla longly tubular. Z. vestita), Dasyanthes (dasys, hairy, anthos, flower; corolla 
airy. E. Sparrmanni L.), E’ctasis (ektasis, extension; stamens prominent. . Plukenétz L.), 
Eriodésmia (erion, wool, desmé, a little bundle; the flowers resemble. Z£. capitata L.), Octopéra 
(oktd, eight, péra, asack ; capsule eight-celled. H. Bergiana L.), Erémia (erémos, solitary ; seeds 
one in each cell. EZ. tétta Thunb.), Salaxis Salisbury (neither etymon nor type is given), Calldna 
Salisbury (E. vulgaris Z.), Ble réa L., Andromeda L., Cassiope (Casséope, the mother of Andrc= 
meda. Andrémeda tetragina L.), Cassandra (Cassandra, the daughter of Priam and Hecuba. 
A. calyculata L.), Zendbia (Zenobia, the queen of Palmyra, distinguished for her virtue and 
learning. A. specidsa Mz.), Lydnza Nutt. (A. paniculata L.), Leucothée (a poetic name. A. 
axillaris Solander), Pieris (one of the muses. A formdsa Waill.), Phyllédoce (one of Cyrene’s 
attendant nymphs. A. certlea Z.), Bryanthus Gmelin (Menziésia bryantha Swz., and empetri- 
férmis Ph.), Dabce‘cia (Andrémeda Dabce‘cii L., Menziésia poliifdlia J.), Menziésée ferruginea 
and globularis constitute, it is remarked, a genus altogether dissimilar, and to be referred to the 
Rhoddree. We had the pleasure to remark to this effect in Dec. 1831: see VII, 718. 


Ericee § Rhodoracee. 


1339. RHODODE’NDRON +11012 arbdreum S77. [Ex. bot. 6., Bot. reg. 890 
1 sanguineum Lind?. blood-coloured-corollaed @ tL Jspl20apmy S Nepal 1817. Ls.p 
[Bot. reg. 1240 


2 rdseum Swe. rosy-corollaed @ J spl 20ap.my Ro Nepal 1817. Ls.p 
(Bot. reg. 1684 
3 niveum Swt. snowy-white-corollaed @ -_J spl 20 fap W Nepal 1817?_.Ls.p 


R. arboreum album Wall. 


Dr. Lindley has thus spoken, in the Bot. Reg. for July, of the snowy-white- 
corollaed variety: —‘“ Never did we behold any flower more perfectly lovely 
than this. Its leaves of the richest and deepest green, mellowed by the warm 
tone of their under surface; its large clusters of bell-shaped flowers, hanging 
loosely, yet compactly, by their slender stalks; and the half-transparent snowy 
corollas, without a stain or a spot, save what nature had given them to render 
their whiteness the more pure and brilliant, formed together an effect which 
few objects could rival, and none surpass. Neither the rich crimson of the 
[corollas of the] common tree rhododendron, nor the deep rose colour of 
[those of] its pale variety, can, for a moment, be compared with that admir- 
able delicacy [of those of the snowy-corollaed variety], which no art can 
imitate, and no pen describe.’ We suppose that all three varieties of the R. 
arbéreum may be purchased of Messrs, Loddiges, Hackney; and of Mr, 
Knight, Chelsea. 


521. AZA*LEA. [Paxton’s mag. of bot. July, 1834, fig. 
4341a Danielséana Paxton Mrs. Capt. Daniels’s #\_J spl 3? ... Carmine China 1830. Lsp 


A species or a variety with splendid flowers, and considerable distinctness 
of habit and foliage, as these are depicted. “ Stems pliant, and bending down- 
ward; producing numerous branches at the termination of each year’s growth, 
disposed in rayed order.” The leaves are in the mode of those of A. indica, 
but much smaller; and in this their greater smallness, and the spreading 
direction of the branches, cause the kind to remind us much of the kinds of 
Chinese azalea with variegated corollas, obtained by purchase from Mr. 
M‘Gilligan, by Mr. Knight. (See [X. 474., X. 281.) From Mr. Paxton’s 
Magazine we quote, that “ Captain Daniels, of the East India Company’s ser- 
vice, brought home several cases of rare plants for Mr. Tate of Sloane Street, 
in 1830, among which were the double red and variegated Chinese azaleas. 
We believe the present plant to be a genuine species, as we can trace no con- 
nection between it and any other known species or variety already introduced. 
At the suggestion of Mr. Tate, we have named this truly splendid azalea in 
compliment to Mrs. Capt. Daniels, as an honour due to that lady for the 
introduction of so fine a plant, and for the kind and liberal spirit with which 
the whole of the boxes were communicated.’ Mr. Tate will soon have plants 
for sale. (Paxton’s Magazine of Botany, July.) 


MonocoryLEDONOUS PLANTS. 
CCXL. Orchidee. 


9529. GEODO*‘RUM. 
2265la fucatum Lindl. painted-Jabellumed x (A) or 1 jl Ro.Var Ceylon 1832. D Lp. Rot.reg.1687 
** It resembles G. dilatatum ; but has rather smaller flowers, and a very different labellum.”’ 


A single plant of this species, sent to the London Horticultural Society by 
Mr. Watson, produced flowers, in July, 1833, in the Society’s garden. “ It 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 403 


thrives in a hot damp stove, but requires to be rested after its leaves have 
withered. These are 1 ft. long, twice the length of the scape, which is curved 
in its upper part, and so renders the flowers pendulous : these are disposed in 
a compact short spike. (Bot. Reg., July.) 

2554, EPIDE’NDRUM. [Bot. mag. 3332 
bieornitum Hook. two-horned-labellumed € (A) fra 14 ap W.spot Trinidad 1831? D p.r.w 
A charming species. The stem of the plant figured is nearly 1 ft. high, and 

bore about four leaves at its extremity; the peduncle was produced from the 
base of the uppermost of these, was 9in. long, and bore a raceme of from 
three to four large and highly fragrant flowers: their odour is compared to 
that of the flowers of J‘ris pérsica. Sepals and petals very much spreading, 
1 in. long; and thus the expanded perianth is 2 in. across, pure white, broadly 
ovate, rather acute. Labellum standing forward, spreading, three-lobed, white, 
with a few purple small spots ; and it bears on its disk two conical divaricating 
horns. The Messrs. Shepherd, of the Liverpool Botanic Garden, have intro- 
duced this species into the stoves of Europe, and provisionally deemed it a 
new species of Cattléya: “and it has many points in common with that genus.” 
The figure is derived from a plant which produced its flowers under the care 
of “ that zealous and excellent cultivator,” Mr. Joseph Cooper of Wentworth 
Gardens. (Bot. Mag., July.) 
CCXLVII. Asphodelee. 


1053. ORNITHO’G ALUM. 

bifldrum D. Don twin-flowered ¥ Aj el 13} ap W Peru 1832? Ops Sw.fl.gar.2.s.246 

Scilla biflbra #. & P., Pers., Schult. 

Leaves broadly linear. Scape about 13 ft. high. Flowers, upon slender 
rather long peduncles, in threes, pairs, or solitary, at short intervals, along the 
upper half of the scape. Perianth white, of less breadth than a sixpence. 
“Its habit is extremely graceful; and its flowers are delicate and pretty.” 
Figured from the collection of Mrs. Marryat, Wimbledon, Surrey. Mr. D. 
Don says, “ It should be planted in a mixture of peat and sand ; and we have 
no doubt of its proving nearly, if not quite, hardy.” (The Brit. Flow.-Gard., 
July.) 

3283. TRITELEI A Hook. ' (Treis, three, teleios, complete; in allusion to the perfectly ternary 
arrangement of its parts. — Lindley.) 6.1. Sp. 5.— 
The above is Dr. Lindley’s etymon of Dr. Hooker’s word; and it quite supersedes those guessed 
at in Hort. Brit. genus 3283., Gard. Mag. X. 350. 178. 
98010a laxa Benth, lax-umbelled ¥ ,Ajor 12jnjl Dp.B California 1832? O p.l Bot. reg. 1685 
Five species of Triteleia have been described by Dr. Lindley, in Bot. Reg. t. 1293. and t. 1685. Of 
T. grandiflora, it is remarked : — ‘‘ North-west America [a native of}. Formerly cultivated in 
the garden of the Horticultural Society, but now lost.”” ‘T. peduncularis Lina?., another of the 
species, has not, it is stated, been yet introduced; and we suppose that the two remaining species 
are also in this last case. 

T. laxa seems, consequently, to be the only species alive in Britain. To 
the information quoted on this plant in p. 178., we may now cite, in addition, 
the following : —“ No plant can be more easy to cultivate; it will grow in 
common garden soil; but prefers such a mixture of peat, loam, and sand as is 
found in a border of American plants. It appears to be perfectly hardy; and, 
if allowed to remain undisturbed, will propagate itself by offsets as well as by 
seeds.” A plant of it, in the Horticultural Society’s garden, has borne twenty 
flowers in an umbel, (Bot. Reg., July.) 

CCLI. Lilidcee. 

1027. YUCCA. 
8517 superba Haw. superb-znjlor. # or 9 au W.St.P. +. « Sk rl Bot. reg. 1690 

Y. gloridsa Bot. Rep. 473.; but it differs from Y. gloridsa L. ‘in the shape of its corolla, and in 


its arborescent stem.’’— Haworth. ‘Its leaves are more acutely pointed than those of Y. glo- 
ridsa.” — Herbert. 


The specimen figured is from a plant which Mr. Herbert bought, twenty 
years ago, of Mr. Malcolm, nurseryman, Kensington. Mr. Herbert has spoken 
of it as follows :—“ It is unquestionably the most magnificent plant in the 
flower-garden. The flower-stem rises 8 ft. or 9 ft. high; and the profusion of 
blossom is so great, that, as the lateral shoots are rather suberect than diverg- 
ing, a pin cannot be passed between the flowers in the centre of the column. 
The deep crimson of the stalks and stem, and the purple stripe on the outer 


4.04 <  ° Floricultural and Botanical Notices. 


petals [? sepals] of the flower, remind one of the colour of [the perianth of] 
Crinum améabile, and contrast beautifully with the glossy white flowers. It is 
a very hardy species, and flowers frequently. In a very dry season, the colour 
is not so deep; warm, or temperate, and showery weather brings it to the 
highest perfection of beauty.” (Bot. Reg., July.) 


In p. 349, line 4. for ** Lanaria ” read “ Linaria.” 


The Dividivi, or Cesalpinia Coriaria, as a Tanning Plant.— A letter from 
Jamaica, by one of the last packets, furnishes me with important information, 
which enables me to fix with the greatest accuracy the age at which seedling 
plants of the Casalpinéa Coriaria come into bearing. Dr, Bancroft’s words 
are as follows : — 

“ Having recently obtained some particulars concerning the dividivi, I can 
state that it flowered in August last, for the second time, in about the fifth year of 
its having been planted : the first time was about twelve months before. There 
were no pods then produced, but an abundance of them last year, so that the 
branches were bent down with them. The flowers were yellow.” The letter, 
from which this extract is taken, is dated the 17th of April, 1834. Hence the 
first time of flowering must have been somewhere about August, 1832, and the 
second in August, 1833. Now, upon referring to my memoranda, I find that 
the first supply of seed I sent went by the Emulous packet, which sailed in 
June, 1829, and reached Jamaica in the course of the following month ; so that 
the seed could hardly have been sown much earlier than August, 1829. Hence, 
in 1832, the plants were only three years old, and in 1833 only four, not five, 
as Dr. Bancroft, from forgetfulness, states ; though, even taking his estimate, it 
is more favourable than that of any other staple product of the West Indies, 
except sugar, which yields its crop in nine months: coffee, it is well known, 
does not come into bearing in less than seven, nor cacao, in general, under 
ten years. I shall subjoin a table illustrative of the comparative value of the 
dividivi, as measured by that of other astringent substances, calculated from 
the able experiments of Mr. Rootsey of Bristol, and confirmed by the results 
of experiments made both here and at Sandwich. 


Results of the infusion of 60 grs. in 5 oz. of water. Number of grains of leather 4843u salizes 
: = obtained by Mr. Rootsey from |S~ 525 °3 
es 2 half an ounce of the infusion, Sass tee 
= 3 | Number ofgrainsof| Proportion per cent of matter | or 6 grs. of the powdered sub- |S _ 87 , 83 8 
Se matter which was which was stance, and a solution of isin- Enea gog g 
g g glass. Consisting of [5.5 © ao aos i 
72 | Soluble. \Insoluble.| Solubleiny | Insoluble in | Grains of | Grains of | Grains of age 5 g a ons 
ra} water. water. Leather. | Tannin. | Gelatine. Fa S Ane ESeSs 
epee ebirst 46 14 76°6667 23°3333 75 345 4:05 57: 
Dividivi | Second | 45°5 145 | 75°8333 24-1667 575 2:°645 5°105 24.836 
Mean 45°75 14°25 76°2500 23°7500 6625 | 3:0475 | 3°5775 517168 
First 35 25 58°3333 41°6667 4 “84. P 666 
Nut Galls| Second | 36 24 60 40 5:25 bats 9 835 os 
Mean 35°5 24:5 59166645 40°833355 4:625 | 22975 | 24975 35'45835 
First 25 35 41°6667 58°3333 07125 =| 0°0575 A 9583: 
Sumach | Second| 23 3 38°3333 61°6667 melted eine Mies: 
Mean 24 36 40 60 
f First 22 fe 38 36°6667 633333 melted 
Kino Second} 26°5 33°5 41°1667 55°8333 ditto 
Mean 2425 35°75 40 4167 595833 
First 40 20 666667 33°3333 1] 
Catechu | Second} 40°5 19°5 67°53 305 mito 
Mean 40°25 19°75 67:08335 32°91665 
First 19 41 31°6667 68°3333 
Oak Bark| Second | 17 43 283333 61666 ' R : F 
Trae a ao 5G 3333 "O 7 1°75 0°805 0°945 13°4167 


Cassia Fistula.—It may be well to notice, for the information of your 
readers, that the timber of that most lovely flowering tree the Cathartocarpus 
(Cassia) Fistula, is as valuable as its pods, so long known in medicine for their 
pulp, being beautiful for turnery, and affording an excellent dye. I enclose 


Retrospective Criticism. 405 


a piece of silk dyed with it. [It was a delicate pink.] The dyers here per- 

_suaded me that the colour could only be extracted by a spirituous menstruum ; 
but Mr. Watts informs me it can be extracted equally well by boiling in 
water. The tree grows in many of our West Indian islands, especially in 
Dominica; and this new property will add enormously to its agricultural and 
mercantile value, when once sufficiently known. This wood, on friction or 
by heat, exhales a delightful aromatic odour; and hence might answer for 
fans, and other uses, to which the costly sandal wood of the East is applied. 
— W. Hamilton. Oxford Place, Plymouth, May 20. 1834. 


Art. IV. Retrospective Criticism. 


THE Horticultural Society at Hackney. (p. 324.) —Observing that G. Geddes 
wishes it to be thought that he is a member of the Stamford Hill Horticul- 
tural Reading Society, and that he complains of the treatment of the Horti- 
cultural Society established here, I beg to observe that no such person belongs 
to the Society, and that the communication was made without their sanction. 
—W. Adamson, jun., Hon. Sec. to the Stamford Hilt Horticultural Reading 
Society. Stoke Newington, July 8. 1834. 

Planting Oaks a Year or two before the Trees intended to nurse them, 
(p. 295.) — I observe that Mr. Bree intends to plant oak trees two or three 
years previous to putting in firs as nurses; and, having entertained the same 
opinions regarding the treatment of oak plantations for these last ten years, I 
need hardly say that I cordially agree with what Mr. Bree has expressed on 
the subject, and I sincerely rejoice that the experiment is about to be made; 
and that, too, by one so well qualified to give it a fair trial. Had circum- 
stances permitted, and opportunity been afforded, this experiment should have 
been attempted years ago; entertaining, as I do, not the slightest shadow of 
a doubt as to the successful issue thereof. Jam not only convinced that 
young oak trees will maintain their vital principle uninjured without the help of 
nurses, but that the aid of every agent necessary to constitute durable timber 
will be more hberally communicated in the absence of nurses than with them. 

It is quite a mistaken notion to imagine, as some seem to do, that the art 
of rearing oak timber consists in stimulating the germinating powers beyond 
the natural impulse; and thus, by artificial means, forcing on the tree to a 
precocious maturity. Such a course is certainly not the best calculated to 
promote longevity, or impart solidity to vegetable bodies. The man who 
plants oak, plants not for his own benefit, but for that of future generations ; 
and, if this is (as it ought to be) his real intention, he cannot act more con- 
sistently than to retard the growth of his plants, rather than to encourage it 
by undue means. I cannot, by any exercise of my mind, conceive why such 
an opinion should have rooted itself so firmly in the minds of many eminent 
planters, as, that young oaks will not live in “ the Land of the Oak,” without 
sheltering them, almost to suffocation, with larch, Scotch pine, and spruce fir. 
That the progress of an oak plantation will be slower without shelter, I 
readily grant; but this I am foolish enough to think an advantage of con- 
siderable magnitude, when durability of timber is the object in view. Let 
me not be understood as deprecating the use of shelter altogether: it is not 
the use, but the abuse, of shelter that I denounce. It may be said, that be- 
tween no shelter at all, and the abuse of it, where and how is the medium to 
be found? Truth generally exists between two extremes ; one extreme is, that 
of no shelter at all; and those of your readers who feel interested in the ques- 
tion, and who have access to Cruickshanks’s Practical Planter, will find the 
other, if they turn to p. 221. of that work; where we are informed that the 
plants (Scotch pine and larch) are to be put in at the distance of 4 ft. from 
each other; that no oaks, or rather acorns, are to be planted until the Scotch 
fir and larch shall have risen to the height of about 4 ft. from the ground ; 
when they will be in a condition to afford complete shelter to every thing 


Vou. X.— No. 53. FF 


406 Retrospective Criticism. 


lower than themselves. To attain this size, they will require from four to 
seven years, according to the quality of the soil.’ By the way of encourag- 
ing this practice, he adds, in p. 224., that “ young oaks, thus sheltered from 
the outset, will make more progress in five years, than unsheltered ones will 
do in ten years.” I think this somewhat doubtful: but, be that as it may, I 
deny that the quality of the wood in the one case can be any thing like equal 
to that in the other; for, as oak grown in milder climates is admitted to be 
possessed of less durability than oak grown in the mountains of Scotland and 
Wales, the same results must ensue, if by extreme sheltering we shall assimilate 
the temperature of those last-mentioned parts to that of the former. 

It is useless to talk of the deleterious effects of spring and autumnal frosts 
upon young oak plants: this last spring the frost was severer towards the 
middle and latter end of May, than we have experienced these some years 
past; the two years’ seedling larches suffered a little in consequence, but not 
a single oak was injured, although I observed the half-expanded foliage of 
several young oak quarters white with the hoar-frost. Now these, I presume, 
were preserved by their not being brought unduly into leaf; but, being only 
acted upon by the natural impulse, they thus acquired a sufficient degree of 
hardiness as they advanced : but, farther, the buds on the shoots of a full- 
grown oak tree are just as tender when about bursting forth in spring, as is 
the seedling when rising through the ground; yet how seldom, if ever, do we 
see the head of a large tree affected by frost! Can we attribute this to any 
thing else than to the absence of an undue excitement on the vegetative 
powers, such as is produced by too close shelter. To me it appears no difficult 
task to find the medium between the two extremes mentioned, and this me- - 
dium, I conceive, Mr. Bree has struck exactly, by planting oak a few years ~ 
before the nurses. A firm and perfect nucleus is thus prepared, whereon to 
deposit the future concentric layers of sapwood; and these in their turn will 
be converted into sound timber the more readily and certainly, from nature 
having been allowed to communicate in her own way that state of soundness 
to the heart wood, which is so necessary for regulating the fluid system, and 
for ultimately completing the vegetable structure. 

When a plantation of young oaks has stood two or three years without 
nurses or shelter, and is found to be alive, we may consider them as having 
fairly established themselves in the ground. A moderate admixture of firs 
ought then to be introduced, in such quantity as would draw up the oak along 
with them, without producing an unnatural elongation of trunk; but, before 
Mr. Bree’s system of treatment can be aeted upon with safety, Iam of opinion 
that the plants will require to be raised on principles somewhat different from 
those commonly acted upon at present. 

Had your pages permitted, 1 should have added a few hints on the treat- 
ment of plants, intended to be put out without nurses; the age and size, 
method and time of pit-making, &c., but this I shall reserve for a future com- 
munication. — James Munro. Brechin Nursery, June 16. 1834. 

The Influence of the Stock on the Scion. — You doubted the fact of the 
shaddock becoming sweet, when engrafted on a sweet orange ; or rather hinted 
at the improbability of a union between two trees so opposite in their genera ; 
and declared the impossibility of the orange becoming red, when engrafted on 
the pomegranate of Malta. Facts of the union of trees quite as dissimilar as 
the above are on record, and, I presume, the authorities on which they are 
related will not be impugned. I met with them four years since. “ A large 
green plum, grafted on the stem of the long black fig, succeeded at Rome.” 
(Letter of John Ford to Mr, Ellis. Linnean Correspondence, vol. ili. p. 64.) 
“ The Chionanthus virginica was successfully grafted upon the common 
ash, a tree of the same natural order with itself, but not of the same genus.” 
(Sir J. EL. Smith. Linnean Correspondence, vol. iii. p. 454.).— J. M.  Phil- 
adelphia, May 11. 1834. 

Our correspondent alludes to the following paragraph, which appeared on 
the wrapper of our 45th Number: —“ An American correspondent would be 
glad to be informed in what work (for he thinks he has seen it somewhere) it 


Retrospective Criticism. 407 


is stated, that ‘a shaddock engrafted on a sweet orange stock will become 
sweet ; and that the orange, grafted on the pomegranate at Malta, gives fruit 
that is red inside.’ Of course, the last is impossible, and the first improbable ; 
but the object is merely to ascertain where the statement is made.” 

It will be seen that our correspondent is mistaken, in thinking that we 
‘* hinted at the improbability of a union” between the shaddock and the sweet 
orange ; or that we considered them as two trees “ opposite in their genera.” 
We only hinted at the improbability of the one becoming sweet when grafted 
on the other; and we did doubt this, and still do so; because there are very 
few instances indeed where grafting has this effect. The only analogous cases 
that we can, at this moment, recollect, are those of the influence of thorn and 
quince stocks in rendering the fruit of some sorts of pears, when grafted on 
them, gritty. Perhaps this is merely the result of the stunting or dwarfing, 
which is produced by such unions. There is, too, in our VIII. 743., a state- 
ment of the effect of other stocks upon pears. As to the plum grafted on the 
fig, and succeeding, we have no hesitation in saying that the thing is impossible, 
notwithstanding the authority adduced. The probability is, that Mr. Ford was 
imposed on by some of the quacks’ grafts (greffes des charlatans, Thouin), for- 
merly very common on the Continent. The shoot of a plum was probably 
drawn through the hollowed stem of a fig, in the same manner as the jasmine, 
the rose, &c., are drawn through the stem of the orange. (See Hncyc. of 
Gard., new edit., § 200.) There is nothing remarkable in Chionanthus suc- 
ceeding on Fraxinus, or on any of the Oleaceze; but we do not see in what 
manner that fact applies to our statement, the pomegranate not belonging to 
the same natural order as the orange. — Cond. 
|. Aponogeton distachyon hardy. — Observing that you state that, amongst 

the stove plants which you saw at Mr. Knight’s nursery, in the King’s Road, 
there was Aponogeton distachyon, I beg leave to say this plant is perfectly 
hardy. Ihave it growing in a pond in the open air: it blooms very freely 
most part of the year, and ripens its seeds, which vegetate within 48 hours 
after they are sown. My strongest plants are those which are self-sown at 
the bottom of the pond, which is 4ft. deep. I planted, only three years ago, 
two small bulbs, and now I am frequently obliged to destroy considerable 
quantities of it. I find it grows abundantly in the ponds of the botanical 
gardens both of Edinburgh and Glasgow. I consider it one of the most 
desirable aquatics I cultivate, it being seldom out of bloom, except about 
midsummer, and a few weeks afterwards. The last winter being mild, it 
flowered almost every day.— Wm. Kent. Bath, July 11. 1834. 

We thank Mr. Kent for this information, and much wish he would oblige 
our readers with more of the fruit of his great experience in the culture of 
aquatic plants. His rich and interesting collection of them in his garden at 
Clapton is well remembered by many who had the pleasure of seeing it from 
time to time. We were in part aware of the comparative hardihood of the 
Aponogéton, but not that it is quite hardy. — J. D. 

Taking up the Roots of the Scarlet Runners in Autumn, and replanting them 
in Spring. (p. 315.) — I have practised this mode of culture for some years. 
When the frost destroys the leaves and shoots, I take up the roots, keep them 
in sand through the winter, and replant them in May. They grow stronger, 
and begin to flower much earlier than beans planted in the common way, and 
never stop bearing till the frost destroys them. I have not set the plants 
more than one year, but a friend of mine has a plant six or seven years old, 
which looks as well now as it did the first year; and he has also a row now 
in pod, which were not either taken up or covered last winter. — N.S. N. 
Nottingham, July 4. 1834. 

I took some Shps from my old Cauliflowers, and set them with my autumn 
plants; and, as they have this spring produced very fine heads, I intend to 
continue the practice. — Jd. 

We should be glad to hear frequently from this correspondent, who has 
doubtless excellent ideas and practices to communicate. — Cond. 

EF 2 


408 Queries and Answers. 


= 


Art. V. Queries and Answers. 


DESTROYING the Red Spider (A’carus telarius). (p. 289.) —If J.B. W. will 
use the following compound, he will find it completely eradicate those un- 
welcome visiters the red spiders, without in the slightest degree dis- 
figuring or injuring any part of vegetation to which he may think proper to 
apply it. To each of four gallons of clean rain water, heated to about 100° 
Fahrenheit, add a small tea-cupful of soft soap, stirrmg and mixing both well 
together. Then apply it with a syringe, in the same manner, same proportion, 
and about the same time as water is generally supplied; that is, well drench, 
between five and six o’clock in the afternoon, every part that is in the least 
infested, or likely to be so, and repeat the operation three successive after- 
noons; the fourth, instead of the nostrum, use clean water. Then again 
the nostrum for three successive afternoons, using on the fourth clean water, 
and so on; recollecting never to syringe with clean water on any of the days 
that the nostrum has been used; nor with the nostrum on any of the days 
allotted for clean water. I have imvariably found that nine syringings with 
the mixture totally destroyed every appearance of the insects, and have never 
found them make their appearance during the season after its application. It 
will be perceived, by a minute inspection, after the first two or three syringings, 
that the foliage has assumed what botanists would call a “ slightly glaucous ” 
appearance. It is this glancous appearance which baffles every effort of 
the insect; as every leaf and branch is thinly coated over with soft soap, 
yet so thinly that in vegetation there is no perceptible difference. The object 
of syringing with clean water every third day is to remove the glaucous ap- 
pearance, and allow vegetation twenty-four hours’ respite ; which enables the 
plant to sustain, without the slightest perceptible difference, the next three 
dressings with the nostrum. Were the glaucous appearance not removed at 
the specified time, but the nostrum continued for four, five, or six times, the 
foliage would get so over-coated, that a very perceptible difference would 
directly show itself; and the leaves would assume a brown unhealthy appear- 
ance: the washing every third day (using a plentiful supply of clean water) 
quite prevents this. — Abdalonymus. July 7. 1834. 

Destruction of the Red Spider ; m answer to J. B. W., p. 289.—Make a table- 
spoonful of sulphur into a paste, and afterwards put it into a large pot full of 
water. The sulphur should be in such proportion to the water as to make 
the latter yellow. Syringe the leaves with this mixture two or three times in 
the course of a fortnight, adding a little more sulphur each time. The spider 
will soon bid you farewell. — P. Davis. Upton, near Stratford, Essex, June 
24. 1834. 

Vitality of the Silver Fir.— Has any one of your correspondents observed 
the stump and roots of this tree alive for a number of years after the tree was 
felled? M. Dutrochet says that the stump and roots of the silver fir (A*bies 
Picea) continue to live, and even to grow, duringa great many years. He ob- 
served, in the forests of the Jura, that all the stumps of the silver fir, the 
branches of which had been many years felled, were still vigorous as well as 
the roots; while the stumps and roots of the Norway spruce, in the same 
forest, were all dead, including even those which had been recently felled. 
Stumps of silver firs which had been felled forty-five years were still full of 
life. —J. W. L. 

The Weeping Ash (1X. 596., and X. 180.) is purely a seminal variety. This 
I have long since proved. About ten years since, twenty thousand seedlings, 
from a fine old weeping tree in the nursery, were planted in the same quarter 
with twenty or thirty thousand common ash seedlings. I was much interested 
in the experiment; but, on carefully watching their growth, the only peculiarity 
IT remarked was their beg rather more vigorous in habit, and, if possible, 
more straight in their stems: not one showed the least inclination to copy its 
humhle progenitor. — 7. Rivers, jun. Sawbridgeworth, May 23. 1834. 


Covent Garden Market. 4.09 


ArT. VI. Covent Garden Market. 


4 From To From To 
LUO GRICE Lies £35 4/£ 5.4. £5. dl/£5.a 
Cabbage, per dozen: Savory, per dozen bunches- |0 3 0/0 0 0 
hite Ci 3 - |0 0 9|0 1 381|| Basil, perdozenbunches - |0 4 0/0 0 0 
Red S - - |0 2 6]|90 3 O|| Rosemary, per dozen bunches| 0 6 0/0 0 O 
Plants or Coleworts - |0 2 0/0 2 6|| Lavender, per dozen bunches|0 3 6/0 4 0 
Cauliflowers, per dozen - |0 2 0/0 6 O/|| Tansy, perdozen bunches - |0 1 6/0 0 O 
Legumes. Stalks and Fruits for Tarts, es 
Peas’ « spersieve - |0 2 6/0 5 0 Pickling, §c. 
a per sack = f i 6 8 e 0 || Rhubarb Stalks, per bundle 6 e Q f 6 is 
s per sieve 0 3 || Angelica Stalks, per pound 
Beans, Windsor ee sack 0 3 6 {£0 5 0]! Vegetable Marrow, per dozen] 0 0 9/0 1 3 
Mubcrs and Rooks. Capsicums, per hundred - | 0 2 0/0 3 0 
per ton 500/17 00 Edible Fungi and Fuci. 
Potatoes - ) per cwt. 0 5 0}0 7 O/|| Mushrooms, per pottle - |0 10/0 6 
per bushel 0 2 6{|0 3 6/| Morels, dry,perpound -1|1 00/0 00 
Turnips, White, per bunch 0 0 2/0.0 4|| Truffles, English, per pound | 0 14 0 | 0 0 
Carrots, per bunch : : 
Young sere - 100 8/01 0 Fruits. 
Horn - o - = |0 0 6/]0 O 8]} Apples, Dessert, per bushel: 
Red Beet, per dozen - |0 20/0 0 0 White Juneating - + |0 5 0/0 60 
Horseradish, per bundle - |0 2 6/0 5 0 Red Juneating - - |/0 50/060 
Radishes, per bunch : : St. Julien - - - {0 8 0;010 0 
Red - - - |0 0 1/0 0 0 Baking - ° - |0 3 6/0 5 0 
White Turnip - - |0 0 13|/0 O Oj} Peaches, per dozen - - |015 0/1 5 0 
y é Nectarines, per dozen - |015 0/)110 0 
The Spinach Tribe. Apricots, perdozen - - |0 2 6/0 6 O 
Spinach § Per Sieve 020 0 0|| Almonds, perpeck - - |0 7 0/0 0 0 
pina: per half sieve - |0 1 6/0 O Oj] Plums, Dessert, per punnet 02 0;0 2 6 
Sorrel, per halfsieve - - {0 1 0 0 0 Green gages - = - |0 26;)0 3 0 
i : Cherries, per pound - |0 0 2/0 06 
The Onion Tribe. Bigarreaus - a - 10 10/016 
Onions, green, perbunch - |0 0 2/0 0 4|| Currants, per sieve: 
Leeks, per dozen bunches = | 0 4 0/0 0 0 Black > = - |0 50/0 66 
Garlic, per pound =. 00 6/0 0 8 White = S - |0 50/060 
Shallots, per pound - = |0 0 8/0 010 Red, for wine - - 10 7 010 8 Oo 
A v For tarts 3 - |0 7 C!0 8 0 
sparaginous Plants, Dessert, per half sieve 0461060 
Salads, &c. Raspberries, Red, per gallon 
Artichokes, per dozen - 10 3 0/0 4 0 (2 pottles) 6 o - 1/0 09/016 
Lettuce, per score: 4 ; Pine-apples, per pound - |0 40/0 70 
_ Cos . - - |0 0 6|90 1 6 || Hot-house Grapes, per pound)0 3 0/0 5 0O 
Cabbage Sy eg= - |0 0 6]0 1 OJ] Melons,each - - -§1/0 2 6/0 5 0 
Celery, per bundle (12to15) | 0 1 0{|0 1 6{/ Cucumbers, frame, per brac * ; 91010 
er dozen - 9 
Pot and Sweet Herbs. Oranges Ae Kundnea 210 GO e AA S 
Fennel, per dozen bunches 03 0;0 0 0 Lemons $ Pet dozen - - |0 0 9/0 26 
Thyme, per dozen bunches 03 0/0 0 0 per hundred - |0 6 0/018 0 
Sage, per dozen bunches - |0 2 0}]0 O O/|| Sweet Almonds, per pound 0 2 0)0 26 
Mint, per dozen bunches - |0 2 6/0 O O/]|/| Brazil Nuts, perbushel - |016 0/0 0 0 
Peppermint, per doz. bunches} 0 1 6/0 0 O/]| Spanish Nuts, per peck - |0 40})000 
Marjoram, per dozen bunches} 0 3 0/{0 0 O0|] Barcelona Nuts, per peck - |0 5 0/0 0 0 


Observations. — From the continuance of fine and warm weather during the 
last month (with an occasional shower) until Saturday last, our market has 
been regularly supplied with fruit in abundance, and in most excellent con- 
dition. The prices of most articles have been good, cherries excepted, which 
have been very reasonable. Currants are now coming to hand in fine condition 
for wine or preserves; gooseberries also are in excellent state for the same 
purposes; we have a few jargonelle and other pears, but the crop is very 
short ; of plums and green gages some few from the walls, the general crop 
is altogether a failure; the report of wall fruit is generally bad, except grapes, 
which will be plentiful. The recent rains have improved the prospect of 
autumn and winter crops, so that I have no doubt we shall have an abundant 
supply of turnips, coleworts, sayoys, and other articles. At present we have 
plenty of summer cabbage, French and scarlet beans, with some turnips and 
fine carrots from Bedfordshire. The supply of early potatoes has been as yet: 
very deficient in quantity, with little prospect of any material improvement 
from the immediate neighbourhood of London, whence we are at present 
supplied, but the later crops will be materially improved by the recent abundant 
rains. — G.C. July 22. 1834, 


410 London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Art. VII. London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


JunE 17. 1834. — Evhibited. Roses, pelargoniums, and heartseases, from 
Mrs. Lawrence. Pinks and carnations, from Mr. Hogg, Paddington. Pinks 
and sweetwilliams, from Mr. Kirke, Brompton. Yellow roses (double), from 
Mrs. Meyer. Cypripédium spectabile, pubéscens, and parviflorum, and Lilium 
spectabile, from Messrs. Chandler. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Gilia tricolor, Fuchsia Thompsoniana, 
Lilium japénicum, Lupinus albifrons, &c.; Cycnoches Loddigész, hybrid 
gladioluses; Pentstemon spléndens, specidsus, &c.; Pzednia albiflora Humer, 
Caprifolium flexudsum, Psoralea glandulosa, Silene compacta, and flowers of 
other plants; Tilgner’s red-heart cherry; Buck’s seedling pine-apple No. 2. 

July 1.— Exhibited. Drawings of heartseases, by Mrs. Withers. Stan- 
hopea oculata, from J. Bateman, Esq. Helichrysum sp., from W. Wells, Esq. 
Specimen of a garden-pot, from T. C. Palmer, Esq. Acanthus spindsus, from 
Mr. J. Kirke. A stand of carnations, heartseases, and roses, from Mr. Hogg. 
Rohdea japénica, from J. Reeves, Esq. A stand of flowers of georginas, from 
Mr, Glenny. : 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Manéttia cordata, Sdllya hetero- 
phylla; Verbena, four kinds; Quisqualis fndica, Calceolaria viscosissima, 
Galéga biloba, JZalope grandiflora, roses, pentstemons, Spirze‘a arizefolia, and 
flowers of other plants. Cherries: The Elton, Downton, Black eagle, Bigar- 
reau couleur de chair (flesh colour), Red heart, Belle de Choisy, Hybrid 
(between Waterloo and Mayduke). Strawberries, the Elton seedling. 

July 15.— Read. Remarks upon the Causes of the Diseases and Deformi- 
ties of the Leaves of the Peach Tree; by T. A. Knight, Esq. 

Presented. No. xxxiv. of the Pomona Italiana; from the Marquess of 
Bristol. 

Exhibited. Rosa microphylla, from E. Johnstone, Esq. Magnolia grandi- 
flora, and White juneating apples, from Mr. J. Kirke. Vines in pots, from 
Mr. Mearns. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Flowering specimens of Calceolaria vis- 
cosissima, Gesnéria ritila, Quisqualis indica, Manéttia cordata, Justicia carnea; 
Alstroeméria hirtélla, afrea; Caprifolium japénicum, Anomatheéca cruénta, 
Clarkea elégans, Stenactis speciosa, Gilia tricolor, Antirrhinum majus flore 
pléno; Lupinus albifrons, ornatus ; Petwnia phoenicea and var., Madia elégans, 
Escallonia rubra, and a white-flowered kind; Spire‘a arizfolia, Reséda odo- 
rata var. crassifolia, Catananche czerilea var. bicolor, Coreépsis lanceolata, 
Cladanthus arabicus; Malope malacdides, grandiflora; G’nothéra speciosa, 
macrocarpa, aniséloba, Pentstémon pulchéllus, hybridus, ruber; Macleaya 
cordata, Coronilla varia, Potentilla Hoopwoodiana, Verbéna chameedrifolia, 
Psoralea glandulosa, roses, georginas, hollyhocks. Cherry: Bigarreau Napo- 
leon. Gooseberries : Woodward’s whitesmith, Pitmaston’s green gage, Taylor’s 
bright Venus, Red Turkey, White Champagne, Red Champagne. 

The Exhibition at the Chiswick Garden, held July 5., was still more nume- 
rously attended than the previous ones, there being present 3076 persons, 
notwithstanding the attraction of the queen going down the river to embark 
for Germany, attended by a numerous body of courtiers, which must have 
drawn “some souls another way.” The stage of exhibition was seen to 
greater advantage than on any former occasion, in consequence of a passage 
round it being railed off, with openings at each end and in the centre of each 
side for ingress and egress. This arrangement admits of some improvement, 
which will no doubt be made; and, when it is perfectly satisfactory, we shall 
give a ground plan of it, for the benefit of other societies who have similar 
exhibitions. 

The next thing which we should like to see attempted by the directors of 
those shows would be a classification of the articles exhibited. We would 
place all the fruit on a part of the stage by itself; all the florists’ flowers by 
themselves, all the roses by themselves, and so on. This would not interfere 


London Horticultural Society and Garden. 411 


with miscellaneous collections of plants in pots, which might be still kept in 
groups, as they are at present. We should also like to see culinary vegetables 
of every description exhibited, and, of course, they ought to be shown ina 
separate tent. Indeed, we are persuaded that these exhibitions will soon be- 
come so popular, that the present tent, large as it is, will not be able to con- 
tain the articles sent, and it may then be devoted exclusively to miscellaneous 
assemblages of plants in pots, while separate tents will be required for florists’ 
flowers, fruit, and culinary vegetables. There is plenty of room for such 
tents, and they might be made of a circular form, and wholly supported by 
an iron column in the centre, somewhat in the manner of fig.630. in the new 
edition of our Encyclopedia of Gardening, but with a curtain all round. 

We should also wish to see a rigid attention paid to classification in the 
collection of cut flowers, such as roses, heartseases, carnations, &c. By 
neglecting to place varieties of the same flowers together, according to their 
affinities, the florists really do themselves an injustice. For example, in the 
way hearteases are at present exhibited, the varieties are all indiscriminately 
mixed together ; so that, in casting the eye over them, it is impossible to say 
how far they are distinct from each other. Now, were each variety placed 
adjoining to that which it most resembled in the greatest number of particu- 
lars, the eye would begin at one end of the collection, and trace a beautiful 
series of harmonious variation to the other end of it. There is not one well- 
constituted mind in a thousand, to which this mode of exhibition would not be 
incomparably more agreeable than the present chaotic one. We believe that 
one of the objects of the exhibitor at present is sometimes to puzzle the spec- 
tator, and to prevent him from knowing how many distinct sorts are exhibited. 
If this be desirable in a commercial point of view, it is most detestable in 
point of taste; for, in small things, as in great ones, “ order is heaven’s first 
law.” Why is it “ heaven’s first law?” Because, wherever a number of par- 
ticulars are presented to the mind, they cannot be comprehended by it, unless 
they are connected by some obvious principle, so as to form a whole. Won- 
derful as the powers of the human mind are, it can only attend properly to 
one thing at one time. From this principle within us arises the necessity of 
order and classification in all things around us, from which we expect to 
derive either instruction or delight. (See the subject of unity of sensation 
treated more in detail in our Architectural Magazine, vol. i. p. 219.) 

The articles which appeared to us the most remarkable in the exhibition 
were Rhodochiton volubilis, which had flowered in the stove of Mrs. Law- 
rence; Campanula garganica, mentioned p. 349., from the garden of Mrs. 
Marryat ; dotted-flowered balsams, from Mrs. Lawrence; balsams very prolific 
in flowers relatively to the number of their leaves and the strength of their 
stems, from the garden of Gunnersbury House, by Mr. Mills; very fine car- 
nations and picotees, from Mr. Hogg; and remarkably large grapes and red 
currants, from Mr. Wilmot of Isleworth. There were, also, anew seedling 
white grape, without stones ; vines in pots with several bunches of grapes on 
each, the plants being raised from cuttings put in in the spring of last year; and 
a pot with several bunches, produced by the coiling system (described p. 138.), 
by Mr. Mearns. Perhaps, after all, the most interesting and most valuable 
articles exhibited were the very large red currants, raised by Mr. Wilmot. 

The gold Banksian medal was awarded: 1. To Mr. John Wilmot of Isle- 
worth, F.H.S., for grapes; 2. To Mrs. Lawrence, F.H.S., for a miscellaneous 
collection of plants; 3. To Mr. Rivers of Sawbridgeworth, for China and 
noisette roses ; and, 4. For garden roses, to Mr. Stephen Hooker of Brenchley 
(near Lamberhurst), F.H.S. 

The large silver medal was awarded: 1. For a miscellaneous collection 
of plants, from Mr. John Green, gardener to Sir Edmund Antrobus, Bart. 
F.H.S.; 2. For miscellaneous fruits, from Mr. Geo. Mills, F.H.S., gardener 
to Alexander Copland, Esq. F.H.S.; 3. For pelargoniums, from Messrs. Col- 
ley and Hill of Hammersmith; 4. For georginas, from Mr. Hopwood of 
Twickenham; 5. For georginas, from Mr. Redding, gardener to Mrs. Mar- 


412 Obituary. 


rvat, F.H.S.; 6. For an Enville pine, from Mr. John Wilmot of Isleworth, 
F.H.S.; 7. For queen pines, from Mr.Wm. Greenshields, F.H.S., gardener to 
R. B. De Beauvoir, Esq. F.H.S.; 8. For melons, from Mr. John Wilmot of 
Isleworth, F.H.S.; 9. For peaches and nectarines, from Mr. John Mearns, 
F.H.S., gardener to the Duke of Portland; 10. For carnations, from Mr. 
Hogg of Paddington; 11. For heaths, from Messrs. Rollison of Tooting ; 
12. For English picotees, from Mr. Hogg of Paddington; 13. For grapes, 
from Mr. Turner, gardener to George Byng, Esq. F.H.S.; 14. For China 
roses, from Mr. Stephen Hooker, F.H.S.; 15. For miscellaneous roses, from 
Wm. Harrison, Esq. F.H.S.; 16. For balsams, from Mr. John Green, gar- 
dener to Sir E. Antrobus, Bart. F,H.S.; For Helichrysum sp., from Robert 
Mangles, Esq. F.H.S. 

The silver Banksian medal: 1. For heartseases, from Mr. Wilmer of Sun- 
bury; 2. For peaches and nectarines, from Mr. Bradley, gardener to the Earl 
of Arran, F.H.8.; 3. For cucumbers, from Mr. Seward Snow, gardener to 
John H. Palmer, Esq. F.H.S.; 4. For currants, from Mr. John Wilmot of 
Isleworth, F.H.S.; 5. For black Hamburgh grapes, from Mr. R. Clews of 
Acton, F.H.S.; 6. For grapes, from Mr. Andrews, gardener to R. Patterson, 
Esq., of Blackheath; 7. For bigarreau cherries, from Mr. Jarvis of Turnham 
Green; 8. For melons, from Mr. Davis, gardener to —-— Strange, Esq., 
Upton, Essex ; 9. For perpetual roses, from Mr. Rivers of Sawbridgeworth ; 
10. For roses, from Mr. Wilmer of Sunbury; 11. For picotees, from Mr. 
Wilmer of Sunbury; 12. For pelargoniums, from Mr. Gaines, Surrey Lane, 
Battersea; 13. For balsams, cockscombs, and georginas, from My. W. Cock 
of Chiswick; 14. For a miscellaneous collection of plants, from Mr. Redding, 
gardener to Mrs. Marryat, F.H.S. 


Art, VIII. Odituary. 


Diep, at Armagh, June 30., aged 42, Mr. James Elles, gardener to His 
Grace the Lord Primate. Mr. Elles was a native of Yorkshire. At an early 
age he was sent to a grammar school, at which he read the usual course of 
Latin and Greek, which, in after-life, assisted in placing him at the head of his 
profession. He discovered an early attachment to the profession of gardening, 
and, being a man of studious habits, he not only became a good practical gar- 
dener, but also an excellent botanist, and a successful cultivator of flowers. 
He contributed, under different signatures, many valuable papers to the Gar- 
dener’s Magazine, and obtained the prize offered by the conductor of that 
periodical, from a great number of competitors, for the best essay on “ Cottage 
Economy.” He had acquired not only a theoretical, but also a practical, 
knowledge of many branches of natural history, and was, we believe, the first 
gardener in this country who used hot water to keep up the proper tempera- 
ture of hot-houses. He lived as head gardener ten years with the Marquess of 
Bath, and upwards of four years at Armagh. In him society has lost a 
valuable member, and His Grace has lost a servant of sterling honesty and 
integrity, one whom it will be a most difficult matter to replace. He bore a 
lingering illness with Christian resignation, and died in the full hope of enjoy- 
ing a happy eternity through the merits of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. 
He has left a disconsolate wife and four children to lament his loss. (Newry 
Commercial Telegraph, July 8. 1834.) 

We can add our testimony to the great moral worth and high professional 
eminence of Mr. Elles, the loss of whom we deeply deplore. We sincerely 
hope that the archbishop whom he has served will act the part of a Christian, 
and be a benefactor and protector to his widow and children. — Cond. 


THE 


GARDENER’'S MAGAZINE, 
SEPTEMBER, 1834. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Art.I. Notes on Gardens and Country Seats, visited, from July 27 
to September 16., during a Tour through Part of Middlesex, Berk- 
shire, Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire, Wiltshire, Dorsetshire, Hamp- 
shire, Sussex, and Kent. By the ConpucTor. 


(Continued from p. 259.) 


Torrrennam Parr, Marquess of Aylesbury.— Aug. 16. This 
is an immense place, of which we had heard much; and while, 
‘In its immensity and in the general management of the estate, 
it exceeded our expectations, in its architecture and gardening, 
which we had heard most praised, it fell short of them. The 
estate consists of 60,000 acres in a ring fence, one half of which, 
we suppose, may consist of the ancient forest of Savernake, said to 
be the largest in Britain in the possession of a private individual, 
with the house in the centre. - Fifteen years ago, the stewardship 
of this estate fell into the hands of Mr. Iveson, who has effected 
the most extraordinary improvements and ameliorations, seconded 
by the marquess, who is one of the best of landlords and masters. 
When Mr. Iveson came into charge of the property, none of 
the cottages on the estate had gardens attached to them, and the 
labourers were in the most wretched condition of any in this 
part of England. They are still bad enough, in more than one 
sense of the word; their wages being made up out of the poor’s 
rate (a system which the magistrates of the county, we were 
informed, have not the courage to break through): but, in con- 
sequence of every cottage, without exception, having had a 
quarter of an acre of land attached to it, the dwelling itself 
- having been put in repair, and, when necessary, enlarged so as 
to consist of four rooms with lean-tos, &c., they are in a state 
of great comparative comfort and happiness. Mr. Burns, the 
well-known, and, we may say, celebrated gardener, at Totten- 
ham Park, propagates 300 apple trees yearly, to distribute 
among them; and supplies them with cuttings and seeds of 

Vou, X.— No, 54, GG 


A14: Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


whatever he thinks will be either useful or ornamental in their 
gardens. For all repairs, and for such additions as they may 
choose to make, Mr. Iveson and his under stewards allow them 
rough materials to any extent for nothing. The walls of these 
cottages are of brick, or of cob, built in the manner described 
in our Encyc. of Cott. Arch., § 838. to § 842., and their covering 
is almost invariably thatch. The cottage and land, with all 
these advantages, are let at 2/. a year, and every cottager comes 
to the mansion to pay his rent twice a year, when he has what 
is, for him, a sumptuous dinner, and abundance of ale, or, as it 
is called in Wiltshire, strong beer. In consequence of this treat- 
ment, they have become quite a different people. ‘There are now 
three schools for twenty girls each, where before there were 
none; but in this respect improvement has not been carried 
half far enough. We heard of no boys’ schools, and we were 
informed that very few labourers on the estate could read. ‘The 
cottagers, some years ago, used to live chiefly on bread and 
water; but now every married man keeps a pig; all grow pota- 
toes and other vegetables in their own gardens; and many brew 
their own beer. Several of them have expressed to Mr. Stanley, 
the marquess’s wharfinger, their astonishment how they could live 
at all, either in their former houses, or on their former diet. 
All the farm lands on this estate are held at will, at very low 
rents, and without any restrictions as to cropping; but they have, 
with scarcely any exceptions, been in the same families for 
generations. ‘The land is good, and, for the county, well culti- 
vated; and the farmers, with scarcely a single exception, are 
rich. The farm houses were formerly situated in the villages ; 
but they have been removed and rebuilt by Mr. Iveson, in 
situations central to the lands, and on improved plans. ‘The 
hedges and roads have also been altered and improved through- 
out the whole estate; and the hedges are managed in the North- 
umberland manner, so admirably, that the boundaries of the 
estate may be discovered by them. We recognised the change 
at once in coming along the Bath road from Hungerford. In 
the home farm, admirably managed by Mr. Unthank from the 
county of Durham, the Berwickshire system of growing turnips 
on raised drills is exhibited, and it has been already followed by 
some of the tenants. Mr. Unthank has also got a Finlayson’s 
harrow, an implement calculated to save an immense deal of 
labour in this as well as in most other parts of the coantry. 
The farmyard here is good; as is also that for poultry. ‘The 
pigeon-house, built in a circular form, and entirely of brick, with 
the cells in the walls, formed by courses on edge, alternating 
with others flat, proper openings being left, and projecting bricks 
for the birds to perch on being introduced, is a model of beauty. 
Mr. Unthank’s house, the carpenter’s house, and the poultry- 


Tottenham Park. 415 


man’s house, form a line of detached villas, which, if near 
London, would be considered as fit for respectable merchants or 
private gentlemen. Mr. Iveson’s house is a villa on a larger 
scale, with a very handsome lawn, tastefully varied and deco- 
rated by Mr. Iveson himself. It is on the margin of the park; 
and, by concealing the separating fence, it might be made to 
appropriate, as its own, a considerable breadth of the park 
scenery. — So much for the extent of this estate, and its general 
management: we shall now turn to the park, and the house and 
gardens. 

The park may be described as an interminable oak forest, on 
a surface which, taken as a whole, may be considered flat, but 
which, in particular places, exhibits undulations. This forest is 
crossed at right angles by two avenues, one above eleven miles 
long, which intersect each other in the centre, at which point of 
intersection is placed the house. A stranger can form no idea 
either of the extent of the park or of the length of the avenues ; 
so that to him the characteristic of the place is interminableness. 
Besides these principal avenues, there are innumerable subordinate 
ones, many planted with beech trees, and others cut out of the 
forest and bordered by the native oaks and birches. There is one 
master avenue, or rather grass drive, which makes a circuit of 
the entire forest, and which is 25 miles long. From one front of 
the house one of the straight main avenues is distinguished passing 
over a swell, at the distance of seven miles. By way of distin- 
guishing the 25-mile avenue, we have suggested to Mr. Burns 
the idea of planting an arboretum along it, of such trees and 
large-growing shrubs as are perfectly hardy; and adjusting the 
distance so that they shall extend over the whole 25 miles. 
This idea, properly developed, would produce something unique, 
and worthy of such a place as Tottenham Park. Mr. Burns 
took us extensive drives in all directions; but, for want of distant 
prospects, and water, we cannot say that we met with any 
striking views. Indeed, we felt a degree of sameness, perhaps 
increased by the impression, still vivid in our minds, of High 
Clere. In the bottom of one quiet valley is Savernake Lodge, 
a small villa, intended for the eldest son of the family when he 
marries, with grounds about it very neatly laid out, and well 
kept. Here the children of the present marquess were nursed up 
by Mrs. Morgan, the present housekeeper, and each child had 
its garden. ‘These gardens still exist, and appear like little islands 
in a sea of turf. ‘They are surrounded by hedges, and are still 
kept up with great care and taste, under the direction of Mrs. 
Morgan. 

The mansion strikes a stranger as being placed in a low 
situation, as the grounds rise slightly from it on every side. It 


was originally, we believe, designed or built by Lord Burlington, 
GG 2 


AIG Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


in the Palladian style of course, with a centre, and two wings 
joined by segmental corridors; a most unsuitable style, according 
to modern ideas, for a baronial residence in the centre of an 
ancient forest. ‘This house has for some years past been under- 
going renovations, and receiving additions in the same general 
style; but we regret to say that we never in the whole course of our 
observation met with any thing more unsatisfactory, either exte- 
riorly or within. ‘The chief fault lies in the works having been 
begun apparently without any general plan. In whichever way 
the exterior elevation is viewed, it is without grandeur; and 
within there are some parts, such as the hall, plainly finished 
even to meanness, and lighted by sloping sashes, exactly like 
those of a hot-house; and some small rooms finished in the 
most gorgeous style, with the most elaborate inlaid floors of 
different-coloured woods, and carved doors and wainscoting, 
and highly enriched cornices and ceilings. ‘There is no large 
room yet finished; the walls of the library are built, but those 
of the dining-room are not commenced, and, in our opinion, they 
never should be, for it is beyond the power of man to make a 
good whole of this house. ‘The principal bedrooms not only 
have low ceilings, but, to aggravate this evil, the widows do not 
reach to above two thirds of their height, so that they never can 
be properly ventilated. ‘The small size of the windows, also, 
makes the rooms appear gloomy and dark, and this, contrasted 
with their gorgeous French furniture, gave us more the idea of 
ptincely tombs (such as we have seen in the vaults of Peters- 
burg and Konigsberg, covered with rich furs and velvet, and 
with a profusion of gilding), than of cheerful sleeping-rooms. 
There is nothing that takes away from the idea of habitableness 
and enjoyment so much as overlaying things with ornament. 
Coming ont of these rooms, one is really quite astonished at the 
meagre finishing of the hall and principal staircase. There is 
a wing containing a Doric conservatory, the columns hollow, 
and their flutings filled in with glass; the triglyphs and other 
parts of the frieze are also filled in with glass: conceits most 
unhappily at variance with Doric simplicity and elegance. Ad- 
joining this, but not joined to it, and evidently an after-thought, 
is an architectural orangery with an opaque roof, higher than 
the other, and sufficiently discordant with it to harmonise with 
the rest of the place. It is not yet finished, and, were it not for 
the sake of Mr. Burns’s fine orange trees, we should be tempted 
to wish it never may. ‘There is a terrace connecting these ap- 
pendages with the main body of the house, from which a flight 
of steps descends to the flower-garden. 

We refer our readers, for the plan of this garden, to VII. 
138.; in which they will find the forms of the beds, and the 
plan and position of the terrace and orangery just mentioned. 


Tottenham Park. 417 


When we saw the forms of these beds on paper, we were at a 
loss to conceive the reasons which induced the artist to adopt 
‘them, as they had evidently no relation to the lines of the walks. 
We said nothing, however; thinking that there might be some 
inequalities in the ground, or some existing trees, or rocks, 
which might justify their adoption. The grounds, however, are 
quite flat, and without a single tree; and, therefore, we do not 
hesitate to pronounce the whole to be laid out in bad taste. 
Our readers will understand the reasons on which this opinion 
is founded, if they will turn to VII. 401., and VIII. 86, &c. 
There is an American border adjoining the flower-garden, and 
marked g in the plan (fig. 16. VII.). ‘This border is parallel to, 
and partly under, a double row of very large beech trees; and, 
as it rises from the walk to the height of between 2 ft. and $ ft. 
above the level of the surface towards the trunks of the trees, it 
has a very bad effect. We will not say that this is a matter of 
taste, in which two persons may differ, and neither be in the 
wrong. No; itis a matter of truth and nature. It never can 
be true to nature to see large old trees with their trunks appa- 
rently earthed up; and it is equally as injurious to their growth 
as it is unpleasant to the eye. There is something, too, exceed- 
ingly circumscribed in the idea of making a shrubbery border 
under the shade of high trees; more especially a peat border, 
which ought always to be more or less moist. By management 
of this sort, the grandeur and dignity of the large trees are 
injured, and the border is prevented from attaining the end 
in view. There is nothing more contrary to nature, yet less 
consistent with the characteristics of art, than the sight of a tree, 
with the base of its trunk either really or apparently clogged 
up with earth. ‘The grandeur and dignity of a tree depend 
mainly on its rising up boldly, with the base and part of the 
trunk exposed, from a naked surface: rising out of a mound of 
earth, or out of a clump of bushes, with the trunk concealed, it 
can only be considered as an immense bush. - 

There are other parts of the adjoining grounds laid out in 
flower-beds, with a magnolia wall, and a walk by a sunk fence 
with a rhododendron border; but these details are not so con- 
nected as to form an impressive whole. In short, there is an 
utter want of unity of design in the garden scenery as well as in 
the house. ‘There is, however, one thing, which it would be the 
greatest injustice to Mr. Burns not to bring forward in a pro- 
minent manner, viz., the excellence of the culture, and the good 
order in which everything is kept. The place abounds in hybrid 
rhododendrons and azaleas; and the flower-beds are filled with 
choice plants, most beautifully in bloom. We have noted down 
numerous fine specimens, but fear we should fatigue our readers 


by giving their names and dimensions, and, what is of far more 
; Ce 


418 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats. 


consequence, the very few years that they have been planted. 
We must, however, notice an azalea, forming a bush 15 yards 
in circumference; and a kalmia, nearly as large, and 6 ft. high. 
Magnolia grandiflora and M. conspicua make shoots here from 
18 in. to 3 ft. long every year. The magnolia wall will probably 
soon be the finest thing of the kind in England, not even except- 
ing that at White Knights. There is a fine Cunninghamvza here, 
between 14 ft. and 15 ft. high; perfectly hardy, and very hand- 
some. There is a large Magnolia glatca, raised from seed 
ripened at Wasing House, Berkshire; an oak-leaved Hydrangea, 
remarkably large; several camellias, both as standards and 
trained against a wall, growing freely and flowering beautifully ; 
an Eriobotrya and Photinia, high, bushy, and vigorous; with’ 
a remarkably large and handsome variety of tree lupine, which 
we should wish to see in the nurseries; in which opinion we are 
sure we shall be seconded by so generous and liberal-minded a 
man as Mr. Burns. In short, in the culture of the garden, and 
in the execution of the carpentry and masonry of the house, 
there is scarcely any thing but what is deserving of the highest 
commendation. ‘The inlaid floors are by Mr. White, whose 
plan is described and figured in our Encyc. of Cottage Arch., 
§ 2010.; and the masonry and carving in stone are by a local 
mason of great talents, whose name we regret we have not taken 
down. 

The kitchen-garden contains many points of excellence. 
Here is one of the best peach-walls which is to be seen any 
where, at this time finely covered with fruit and wood ; so much 
so, indeed, that hardly a brick of the wall is to be seen. We 
have heard several gardeners declare this to be the best peach- 
wall in England. Behind part of this wall, Mr. Burns keeps 
his stock of tree leaves for his pine-pits; and, by the ferment- 
ation and heat, they bring forward the trees so as to ripen their 
fruit three weeks earlier than those on the common wall. The 
pines are remarkably well grown; and Mr. Burns has cut one 
as heavy as 13lbs. ‘he Tottenham Park Muscat grape is well 
known and highly esteemed; the original plant fills a whole 
house, and bears well every year. Cherries are here grown in 
peat, and found to thrive well in that soil; in the common soil 
of the garden they were found to gum. ‘The substratum every- 
where at Tottenham Park is chalk; and, when it is desired to 
drain any place, or get rid of superfluous water, all that is 
necessary is to dig a pit into the chalk. We must not omit to 
mention that Mr. Burns has a garden library for his young men. 

The house-porter here, Joseph Shindle, is a remarkable in- 
stance of the force of native genius. In spite of his morning 
duties of wheeling in coals and wood, and wheeling out ashes 
and dirt, he has contrived to make a number of curious sundials 


Tour through Belgium and Part of France. 419 


and barometers; and to paint several pictures of fruits and 
flowers, and make frames for them. He is an excellent cabinet- 
maker and joiner, and a theoretical as well as practical astrono- 
mer. He has contrived, out of his savings, to collect a tolerable 
library, including Hutton’s Mathematical Dictionary in quarto. 

There is one fine circumstance connected with Tottenham 
Park, which deserves to be mentioned for the credit of its liberal 
and benevolent Jord. It is open at all times to the inhabitants 
of the surrounding towns; who drive, ride, or make gipsy- 
parties in it at pleasure. 

(To be continued.) 


Art. II. Notes made during a Professional Journey through Bel- 
gium and Part of France, for the House of Messrs. Low and 
Company, Nurserymen, Clapton, in March and April, 1834. By 
Mr. WiLLiam GARviE, Foreman in the Clapton Nursery. 


(Continued from p. 362.) 


ANTWERP. — The nursery gardens here are neither numerous 
nor of much importance. It is difficult to say who has the best. 
M. Moeris excels, decidedly, in camellias, which he cultivates 
successfully and in great quantities. He has appropriated a 
large house to plants of the most esteemed varieties, which are 
planted into the free soil; and he has, besides, a great many 
seedlings, from which he expects great things. One of these 
appeared to me to promise well; but the blossom was not suf- 
ficiently expanded for me to speak of it decidedly. Of other 
plants he has but few, and those are not well cultivated. 

M. van Geert has commenced a promising nursery at a short 
distance from the town; and, from the situation of the place, 
and the apparent spirit of its occupier, I have little doubt that 
it will succeed well. ‘The general stagnation of trade in this 
quarter, at the time of M. van Geert’s commencing, gave him a 
severe trial; but, since peace has been restored, he finds things 
going on more favourably. 

_ There are also many market-gardens; but, like those of 
Ghent, little or no taste is displayed either in the laying out or 
the keeping of them. 

There is a botanic garden at Antwerp; but it is very small. 
It contains several small plant-houses, principally for tropical 
plants, which are generally in very bad condition. There are, 
however, some good specimens of those species of plants which 
have been long introduced to the collections of Europe; but not 
any of the newly introduced ones. The green-house plants were 


still worse than those in the stove, if worse could be; as there 
GG 4& 


4:20 Notes made during a Professional Tour 


was not a single plant worth anything. I was much dis- 
appointed with the place altogether, especially from its gay 
appearance outside; it having a fine stone parapet about 3 ft. 
high, surmounted with rails 10 ft. high, I should think, and gilt 
at the top. Something of this kind would better become a 
palace than a botanic garden. 

As I had been but little satisfied with my morning’s employ- 
ment, I next directed my course to the chateau of M. Parthon 
de Von, in hopes of being better gratified; and I was not dis- 
appointed. ‘The chateau lies about three miles out of the town, 
to the right of the Brussels road; and it is surrounded by a 
large ditch filled with water (a thing very common in this 
country), over which you pass by means of a drawbridge. ‘There 
are three good plant-houses, and an orangery: one of the houses 
is for stove plants, of which there is a good collection; and they 
are well cultivated. A plan of shading the stove plants is 
adopted here, which I had never seen before: a sort of paint is 
prepared, with which the glass is painted very lightly all over ; 
and I was informed that this thin coating gives an excellent 
shade in summer, and does not in the least injure the plants 
during winter. Whether this practice is beneficial or not, I 
shall not pretend to say; but I can safely assert that the plants 
here look as well as any plants can well look at this season of the 
year. The collection of Orchideze here is rather rich, and the 
plants are well cultivated, although many of these are small; 
owing, no doubt, to the liberal manner in which M. Parthon de 
Von exchanges with his neighbours. He has a person now 
in the Brazils expressly for procuring Orchideze; from whom he 
expects to receive considerable additions to his already interest- 
ing collection. The green-house is small; but it contains some 
esteemed and rare plants. ‘The collection of hardy herbaceous 
plants is very extensive; although it made, at the present 
season, but little show. ‘The grounds of this residence suffered 
much from the ravages of the French army, while encamped in 
this quarter, during the siege of Antwerp. M. Parthon de 
Von informed me that upwards of 1500 large trees had been 
cut down in the neighbourhood, by the army, for firewood. The 
roots of some of them have not yet been removed. 

Madame Smeldt has a beautiful place near Antwerp, which 
contains several good houses for tropical plants, among which 
ave some fine specimens of palms, though not any of uncommon 
species. The pine-apple is here cultivated to a considerable 
extent, and not without success, although the fruit is, in point of 
size, far inferior to that produced in England. 

The road from Antwerp to Brussels leads through a beauti- 
ful agricultural country, abounding everywhere with fine large 
woods. ‘The soil seems excellent, approaching, in many places, 


through Belgium and Part of Krance. 421 


to a strong yellow loam, and capable of bearing any sort of 
crop. Along this road, I observed a greater number of gentle- 
men’s seats than along any of the other Continental roads which 
I have yet travelled. At about six miles from Antwerp I 
observed, in passing, a very neat garden, with several small 
houses built in the English fashion: these, I afterwards learned, 
belong to a Mr. Fenner, an Englishman. The country, as you 
approach Mechlin, becomes more undulated; and, upon the top 
of a gentle eminence, two miles before you reach the town, the 
prospect before you is magnificent, and extends over the sur- 
rounding country, which you can see for several miles beyond 
Brussels. As you descend towards the town, you enter a noble 
avenue of fine elm trees, with the beautiful steeple of the cathe- 
dral, as it were in perspective, at the end. It is the finest ap- 
proach to a town I have ever seen, except some of the approaches 
to Rouen in Normandy. Mechlin seems a place of consider- 
able importance, and has a convenient communication with 
other places, by means of a fine canal which runs past it on one 
side, and a large river which is within about about a mile or 
so on the other. After leaving the town, you cross the canal, 
and the road beyond it lies close to its banks, nearly all the way 
to Brussels. ‘The country here begins to be a good deal un- 
dulated ; and many villas are placed along the roadside. Near 
Brussels, on a gentle eminence to the right, stands the palace of 
Lacken, at present occupied by the King of the Belgians. 
The entrance to the town itself is not good on this side, as the 
road lies low, and the houses are rather meanly built. 

Brussels is large, and contains some good streets, especially in 
the neighbourhood of the park, in which stands the palace. 
There are some magnificent buildings contiguous to the park; 
and the fine iron railings and gates, being gilt at their tips, 
have a gay appearance. Along the principal boulevards there 
are some good houses, and their pleasant situation always insures 
their being filled with persons of rank, a great many of whom 
are English. ‘The situation of the residences, from the Boule- 
vard de Waterlco round as far as the Porte de Lacken, is by 
far the pleasantest I have ever witnessed: it lies very high, is 
open in front, and commands an extensive view of the neigh- 
bouring country. 

The nursery gardens in and about Brussels are not numerous ; 
and of these, none contain anything that is either new or 
rare. ‘The market-gardens are more numerous, and supply the 
market with excellent vegetables, especially Brussels sprouts, 
which certainly are here exceedingly fine. 

At a few miles from the town, there is a nursery belonging to 
a M. van Volexem, where there is one of the finest collections 
of ornamental trees and shrubs I have ever seen. ‘The pro- 


422 Notes made during a Professional Tour 


prietor is very rich, and does not spare either trouble or expense 
to procure every thing that is choice and new in plants of this 
kind. He does not cultivate any house plants. The new 
botanic garden of Brussels has a very prepossessing external 
appearance. It stands on a gentle eminence at the top of the 
Boulevard de Lacken, from which it is seen to great advantage. 
Within it, there are, in the large stove, some fine specimens of 
palms; but many of them suffered severely in the late revo- 
lution; and some were entirely destroyed by the Dutch, who 
were in possession of the gardens and houses during the greater 
part of the contest. I was informed that a plant, supposed to 
be the finest in Europe, of the Strelitzza augista was cut to 
pieces by the soldiers from mischief. Among the New Hoi- 
land plants, there are none of the newly introduced species: 
they are all of kinds long known in Europe; and, although 
the specimens of some of them are large, they are not at all in 
a good condition: they are, indeed, tall, and naked a great way 
up the stems, which gives them an unsightly appearance. ‘There 
is an extensive collection of succulent plants, and these appear 
to advantage. ‘The pine-apple is also cultivated to some extent, 
but not skilfully. Kidneybeans and strawberries are forced; 
which seems quite out of character in a botanic garden: but as 
these are sold, and other plants from the collection, it is pos- 
sible the former produce as much profit as anything else. ‘The 
grounds are extensive; and, in front of the houses, they are 
curiously laid out, though in a style which appeared to me 
much out of character, and I cannot say well executed. I was 
informed that the conductors of the garden have received a 
grant from government of a yearly sum for the improvement of 
the garden, and for the purchasing of new plants; and it is to 
be hoped that this aid, by being judiciously applied, will be 
made to supersede, at least in some degree, the selling of plants, 
especially the selling of them at such low prices as at present, to 
the great injury of nurserymen, who have a living to make 
by the profits of their business, while the botanic garden has 
support from other quarters. 

There are several interesting private gardens in and about 
Brussels. ‘That of M. Reynders, beyond the Porte de Louvain, 
is the most so. His collection is not extensive, but very select ; 
as it is restricted to those species only which recommend them- 
selves by the beauty of their flowers. I observed here the finest 
plant of Kennédya dilatata that I have ever seen: it covered 
the whole end of one of the houses, and was bearing, I may say, 
thousands of flowers. Many of the plants, as hoveas, oxylo- 
biums, pimeleas, epacrises, pultenzeas, platylobiums, some of the 
choicer camellias, and many others of equal merit, were growing 
planted out, and showed to much advantage. A fine plant of 


through Belgium and Part of France. 4.2.3 


Plagioldbium chorozemezefolium was $ ft. high, in full flower, 
and was truly magnificent. 

The next garden that I shall mention is that of M. Vander- 
maelen, the proprietor of a lithographic establishment, a gentle- 
man very fond of plants, who has erected two beautiful cast- 
iron houses, one for stove plants, and the other for green-house 
plants. Among the latter are some of esteemed and rare 
species. The stove plants looked rather sickly, perhaps from 
being too much exposed while the house was being erected. 
M. Vandermaelen has two collectors in Brazil seeking Or- 
chideze. He has already received from them some species of 
these plants; but I had not an opportunity of seeing them; as 
it was night before I saw the gentleman himself, nal the gar- 
dener was not allowed to show them. I found M. Vander- 
maelen in the evening busily engaged in his garden, with several 
other persons, catching moths and other insects, of which he has 
a very extensive collection. Behind his houses is his museum, 
which is well stocked with all sorts of stuffed birds; serpents of 
every description, preserved in spirits; shells without number ; 
and, in fact, every curiosity he can possibly obtain. I was very 
“aah gratified with this museum; and, if I had had more time, 
I should have visited it again, on purpose to take notes of the 
most interesting objects which it contains. 

I next directed my course to the palace of Lacken, situated 
about three or four miles out of Brussels. The palace is occu- 
pied, at present, by the King of the Belgians, who is very fond 
of plants, especially of those of an odoriferous kind. His 
Majesty has had Mr. M‘Intosh from Claremont [see p. 328.] 
to superintend the building of some new houses, namely, a stove, 
a green-house, and a long range of pits. ‘The whole of these 
are finished in a very superior manner, and reflect great credit 
on Mr. M‘<Intosh, as in them both beauty and utility are com- 
bined. The latter quality is too often neglected by garden archi- 
tects: beauty seems to be the principal subject of their study. 
I particularly admired the manner of giving air in front of these 
houses by means of an iron rod that is extended from one end 
to the other, and is very ingeniously connected with each light ; 
so that a person may stand at one end, and give all the lights 
air at once. As I have never seen anything of the kind else- 
where, I suppose that it is Mr. M‘Intosh’s own invention ; and, at 
any rate, it is a very ingenious one. The orangery here is a fine 
large noble-looking building, upwards of 300 ft. long, 50 ft. 
wide, and 40 ft. high, with a common slated roof, 4nd large 
windows in front with pillars between. The gardener who 
showed me round informed me that it has been proposed to erect 
a new conservatory in a large open space, and to remove from 
the old one the windows at present in front of it, thus throwing 


4.24. Notes made during a Professional Tour 


the new and the eld conservatories into one. If this were done, 
it would produce, I should say, one of the finest conservatories 
in Europe; the magnificent orange trees behind, and the hand- 
some specimens of New Holland plants in front, would have a 
fine effect. ‘The garden and grounds seem to be in a very 
neglected state; and the want of evergreens in the park and 
pleasure-grounds gives these places a meagre and cold appearance, 
as compared with Claremont and other country seats in England. 
Mr. M‘Intosh has been endeavouring to remedy this defect by 
planting a great number of evergreens of various sorts; and I 
hope they will succeed; but former experience nearly proves 
that they will not. Some years ago, when I lived in France, I 
have known them thrive well for several years ; but, when a sharp 
winter set in, they all died; and the larger the plants were, the 
sooner they perished. ‘ew persons, except those who have 
lived on the Continent, would believe how cutting the easterly 
winds are: it is from that quarter the severest weather generally 
comes. However, now that a beginning of planting evergreens 
has been made at Lacken, I hope that the planting of them will 
be followed up; for much is still wanted to render Lacken a 
place of much importance in the way of gardens or grounds. 

At Enghein, a few miles from Brussels, there is an extensive 
nursery, belonging to M. Parmentier, who has a very large 
assortment of exotic plants; but they are not by any means in a 
good state of cultivation, if I except his species of palms, of 
which there are some fine and very clean plants. His New 
Holland plants are in a very bad state, resembling those in the 
botanic garden at Brussels. His collection of Orchideze is very 
extensive, and contains many rare and valuable species; but the 
plants are not well cultivated: they seem, as it were, starved for 
want of a sufficiency of heat and moisture. 

The Duke d’Aremberg has here a large garden, which con- 
tains two fine ranges of houses, principally for stove plants, of 
which there is an immense number; and many of them are of 
esteemed species, though not of newly introduced ones. In the 
orangery there are some of the largest specimens of orange trees 
I have ever seen; and they are mostly in good health. There 
is not a chateau here, it having been burnt down some years ago. 

From Brussels to Louvain the country is slightly undulated ; 
but it is not so well wooded as on the other side of Brussels: it 
is, nevertheless, of considerable interest. At Louvain there is 
not any nursery worthy of notice; but there is an excellent 
botanic garden, which contains an extensive collection of rare 
plants, especially of stove plants; and these are in the highest 
state of cultivation of any I have yet met with. The garden is 
not large, but it is well laid out; and the whole is in a good state 
of keeping, and therefore reflects great credit on M. Donkellar, 


through Belgium and Part of France. 425 


the head gardener, who is a very intelligent and a very civil man. 
He introduced me to the gardens of several of the principal 
private gentlemen in the place; but, after seeing his own, there 
appeared to me little else worth notice. 

The road from Louvain through ‘Tirlemont and St. Trond 
passes through a country of very little interest. ‘The inhabitants 
seem much more dirty and wretched in their appearance than 
in Flanders, where they are remarkably clean. The houses of 
the poor look extremely miserable, and the absence of wood and 
water from the scene causes it to present an uninteresting ap- 
pearance. As you approach Liege, however, the country greatly 
improves, and becomes extremely hilly and varied. ‘The ap- 
proach to the town of Liége is beautiful: you descend gradually 
a steep hill with the town lying underneath as it were, with a 
hill on the left, and a steep valley on the right ; onward, in front, 
you have an extensive prospect, in which are seen the windings 
of the beautiful river Meuse, and beyond a fine fertile country, 
which extends almost to the borders of Prussia; so that the 
scene is one of striking interest to a stranger. Liege is a large 
and rather well-built town on the banks of the Meuse: it con- 
tains some very extensive ironworks, especially those for the 
easting of cannon and muskets, for supplying the army. ‘The 
royal foundery is a very large and commodious place, capacious 
enough for the manufacturing of almost any thing: it was here 
that the large mortar was cast, which the French used at the siege 
of Antwerp. As I entered Liege, I observed a great many of 
the countrywomen going out of town with large baskets on their 
backs, filled with unfinished muskets, but for what purpose they 
were conveying them into the country I was not able to discover. 
There is here an extensive nursery, belonging to M. Makoy 
[see p. 321.], in which a rich collection of choice plants is cul- 
tivated, and which, for neatness and good management, does not 
yield to any in that country. Altogether, it does great credit to 
its spirited and enterprising proprietor, who has been only a few 
years in business, and, what is more surprising, was not educated 
either for a nurseryman or a gardener. M. Makoy has been in 
England twice or thrice, for the purpose of purchasing what 
is new and choice, and spends a considerable sum annually for 
the same object. ‘There are several other nurseries in the neigh- 
bourhood, but they are of so little importance as scarcely to 
merit notice. ‘There is here a small botanic garden, adjoining, 
and belonging to, the university: it contains four small houses ; 
but the collection of plants is very indifferent, and the plants are 
not in a good state of keeping. In the open ground there seems 
an extensive assortment of hardy herbaceous plants, but these 
did not make, at this season, much show. ‘The walks were of 
coal-ashes, instead of gravel; the latter is not to be had here, 


4.26 Notes made during a Professional Tour 


and is, I believe, in most parts extremely scarce; on which 
account the garden walks in this country are generally very 
unsightly. I returned from Liege to Brussels, and thence to 
Tournay, through Enghein and Ath. The last is a small but 
strongly fortified place, the entrance to which is over five or six 
drawbridges. I was informed that it was fortified by Napoleon, 
and that he deemed it the key to Belgium on that side. All 
along this line of road, you pass through a beautiful cultivated 
country, well wooded and watered in every direction. ‘Tournay 
is a small, but rather a well-built town, and is strongly fortified, 
owing, no doubt, to its being near the frontiers of France. The 
river Scheldt runs through the town, nearly in the middle of it, 
which facilitates the communication with other places. ‘There are 
few nursery gardens here. An extensive grower of tulips, who 
resides within the ramparts, has raised, I was informed, a great 
many splendid varieties from seed. ‘There is here a sort of 
botanic garden, but the most miserable one I have ever seen ; 
the management being entirely left to common labourers. The 
next garden which I visited was that of Sir Henry Oaks, Bart., 
who has a very neat range of small houses, containing a select 
collection of well-cultivated plants. Sir Henry cultivates those 
species and varieties only which recommend themselves by the 
beauty of their flowers. I observed a fine plant of Chorézema 
Henchmannz, nearly 5 ft. high, covered with its beautiful blos- 
soms from the pot to the very top. Sir Henry showed me a 
number of gold and silver medals, awarded to him by different 
societies, both in Belgium and France. I found Sir Henry one 
of the most affable and cbliging gentlemen that I met with on 
the Continent: he not only personally showed me his garden, 
but introduced me to those of his acquaintances that had any 
thing worth seeing. I did not find any to surpass his own, 
although several were tolerable; but the proprietors of them all 
declared that Sir Henry was the first to instigate them to do 
what they had done, as there did not exist a green-house of any 
consequence in ‘Tournay before his was built. 

I proceeded from ‘Yournay direct to Paris, without stopping, 
except for changing horses and getting refreshment. We had 
not gone far, before it was visible that we were in another 
country. Any person, who has not seen it, would scarcely be- 
lieve that such a difference could exist in so short a distance: 
the houses began to be more and more dirty as we advanced into 
the French territory; and, instead of the neat Flemish brick 
houses, nothing was to be seen but miserable clay huts, which 
often presented a very filthy appearance: the disparity in the 
state of the inhabitants was about as great. The roads also be- 
came worse, and the diligences much more clumsy and awkward, 
than those in Belgium. ‘The distance between Tournay and 


through Belgium and Part of France. 427 


Paris being considerable, there is, as it might be supposed, a 
great variety of surface. The country, after leaving Lille, is flat 
and well cultivated; as you proceed, it becomes more undulated ; 
but there are neither rivers nor canals to be seen, as in Belgium. 
In some places you pass large forests of underwood, that is cut 
down every seven years or so, for fuel; but a few trees are left 
at irregular distances, to use as timber for building houses, &c. 
The approach to Paris, in this direction, is very interesting, the 
ground on each side of the road being nearly all laid out in 
market-gardens, for supplying the Paris markets. ‘There seems 
to be but little neatness displayed in the keeping of these gardens, 
and the vegetables show but very indifferently while growing in 
what appear to be open fields. ‘The nursery gardens in ‘and 
about Paris are very numerous; but since the revolution they 
have fallen much to decay. The first private garden I visited 
was that of M. Boursault, once the finest in Paris, but now it is, 
I am sorry to say, sunk almost to nothing; owing, as I was in- 
formed, to the deranged state of the proprietor’s fortune. Most 
of the plants are already sold, and those which remain are all 
' for sale; among the latter is a splendid plant of Araucaria ex- 
célsa [see fig. 33. LX. 147.], the tub of which is sunk deep in 
the ground, the top of the plant touches the glass, and wants 
room: the remainder are principally camellias, with some stove 
plants. The beautiful range of houses on the south wall (IX. 
fig. 34.] no longer exists; its place is occupied by a trellis of 
vines and peaches. ‘The ground still remains in nearly the same 
state, and is all, I was told, to be sold, if a purchaser can be 
found. 

The nursery of M. Noisette is very extensive, and the plants, 
generally, are in tolerable condition. His camellias are fine, and 
the winding walk in the centre has a good effect. I found 
nothing new; as he said he could not sell expensive plants at 
present, and could not, as a matter of course, he added, afford to 
buy them. I ventured, however, to express to him my opinion, 
that choice and newly introduced plants are more likely to yield 
a profit than the more common and more familiarly known ones. 

The garden of M. Cels has suffered much since the death of 
its late proprietor, but it still contains many choice and rare 
plants, though few, if any, of the very newly introduced kinds. 
The two young MM. Cels seem to be very intelligent men, and 
to be extremely anxious to keep up the reputation so long 
enjoyed by their late father. I visited the establishments of 
many other nurserymen, as those of MM. Fion, Lemon, Jaquin 
fréres, seedsmen 5 M. Vandael, and several others; but I did 
not find, in these places, any thing worth mentioning. The last 
place I Fated was that of M. Soulange-Bodin, at Fromont on 
the Seine, who has an extensive garden and grounds (I should 


428 Notes made during a Professional Tour 


think, formerly belonging to some of the French nobility, who 
were the victims of the first revolution). There is only a very 
small portion of the grounds occupied for nursery purposes, the 
rest is sown with oats, barley, &c., with the exception of some 
portion that is planted with large trees of various sorts; and 
forms a kind of park or pleasure-ground. M. Soulange-Bodin 
has the greatest collection of glass structures I have ever seen: 
they consist of houses and pits. The stove contained many rare 
and valuable plants, and they were in tolerable condition; but 
the green-house plants were looking generally sickly. M. Sou- 
lange- Bodin cultivates, and well, an immense quantity of camel- 
lias; he also grows a great number of American plants, espe- 
cially of rhododendrons, kalmias, ledums, azaleas, &c.; and 
immense quantities of roses of all sorts, both as dwarfs and as 
standards: his place, altogether, is well worth seeing, and was, 
for its extent, in tolerable order. 

The botanic garden of Paris is a magnificent place: it contains 
not only a very extensive and good collection of plants, but 
almost every kind of curiosity you can imagine, such as a museum, 
cabinet of natural history, a menagerie, and many other things, 
that are quite beyond my power to describe, and, in fact, to 
recollect. 

The flower-markets of Paris present at this season (Kaster) a 
very gay appearance, and the articles are produced in a state 
which I have never seen excelled: an enumeration of the ar- 
ticles would make a very long list, and I do not, in fact, recollect 
them. The public walks in and about Paris are numerous. 
The finest are those of the Tuileries, the Champs Elysées, the 

“Champ de Mars, the Boulevards, &c., which, at this time, were 
crowded with gay company, diverting themselves with various 
sorts of amusements. 

In passing from Paris to Rouen, you traverse a fine cultivated 
country, abounding with objects to amuse the stranger. At 
Rouen there are several small nurseries, but these, like those of 
Paris, are not in a flourishing state. M. Vallet has still a great 
many fine orange trees and roses, but nothing new. Fremont 
le Jeune’s nursery contains a good collection of fruit trees and 

ornamental shrubs, and was in good order. The nursery of M. 
Prevost is still the finest in Rouen. ‘That of Calvert and Co. is 
all gone to wreck, an event which I have expected for these six 
years past, and which was greatly owing to the ambition and 
mismanagement of M. Calvert, who was always embarking in 
speculations which, owing to neglect or some other cause, totally 
failed. I have often known him and his wife leave Trianon for 
six months together, and commit the business to the mercy of 
an old lawyer, who acted as a sort of trustee in his absence: 
from this man neither money nor any thing else could be had, 


Design for laying out a Kitchen-Garden. 429 


for carrying on the business, so that the men were obliged to 
leave for want of their wages ; and such was the character of the 
place, that no others were to be found willing to engage, as few 
had ever had any thing to do here without repenting it. I was 
very sorry to see such a fine nursery as this was, and one which, 
by good management, might by this time have been the finest in 
France, all going, as at present, to pieces. I was informed that 
the houses and grounds have been purchased by the College, for 
the purpose of removing the Jardin des Plantes from its present 
situation to Trianon, which is a much more eligible place than 
that in which it is now situated. I visited several other nurseries 
and gardens, but I found very little of any consequence: the 
plant-houses were nearly all occupied by well-known species of 
plants; and, in the open ground, standard rose trees and fruit 
trees were the principal objects. In travelling from Rouen to 
Havre, you pass through one of the finest corn countries in 
France, and one which is deemed the granary of France. Im- 
mense quantities of apple trees are planted in rows, in some places 
along the roadside, in others through the fields in irregular 
rows: all these are for the production of apples for the purpose 
of making cider, which is the principal drink of the people in 
this part of the country. Some of the cider is good, but a great 
part of it is very inferior; what the poor people drink is called 
boisson ; that is, half cider and half water ; which mixture tastes, 
to a person not used to it, very nauseous. Havre being a sea- 
port, there are no gardens of any consequence there. The 
harbour is good, and many large ships are at. present in port, 
especially those of Americans, who seem to have a great deal of 
traffic here. I left Havre by the Camilla steamer for South- 
ampton, which we reached in ten hours after leaving the port of 
Havre. I was very much gratified with my journey, especially 
with the part of it made through Belgium, where the spirit of 
gardening is, at the present time, at a much higher pitch than 
in France. 


Art. Hl. A Series of Designs for laying out Kitchen-Gardens. By 
Mr. T. Rutger. Design 4., Containing Two Acres within the 
Walls, and an Acre and a Half in the Slips. 


Tue following plan (fg. 75.) comprises about two acres 
within the walls, including the forcing department, to which the 
slips are intended to add nearly an acre and a half more. Doors 
may be put in the side walls, for convenience, if wanted. ‘The 
middle walk through the garden is intended to be wide enough 
for a cart or carriage, which is always convenient, and more 

Vou. X.— No. 54. HOH 


430 Design for laying out a Kitchen-Garden. 


Ie 


See 
rae “ld Sle eT : ie 
i" § 3 p| |e ° Bei 
ies ° el iF es) 
te? é FE : gd: 
ret 2 2 @ le 2 : git 
Te* 8 3} : _ 9 
tof > z| fe 5 a 
- ay y 6} Io) a eit 
jf es a 6] |» ” ght 
na ‘ @ SB) je e v 
toe. Sos OSOD UE SODEO & 
ae 5 o 6 
TB go 
Te 
ite, © Si 
rae 98 
Eee 3 1 93 
© 49 bl 
ane ef 
ao @ } 
a9 oe 
Fm cs 

a 
¢ 
es 


bo CO UR LéB 


v 


im 


LB UB Sy Mbp Ub LY 


SS WS SS] 


16 


SSG... 
16 


LOLS Lp 
reed 


7 7 


CTT ITT 
By Ly 
15 


H) ehh teeter erererts1airir Eel 


(oo WiC bl Sta 


1-1-1} 
a» 


So 


S| 


9 


1 
CHITA LETOONT CUE 13 
Tt Gt lS Gd Gt att Kl Sad Dl Nd Gd Ud Sd Coed a DRM KKGK 


5 | 
N 
Lele nie intatmimyelatatevetet ee es oe eS 


1. Slips and fruit-garden. 2. Culinary department. 3. Forcing department. 4. Frame ground. — 
5. Department for compost, mixing dung, &c. 6. Pine-stove. ie Succession-houses, or for 
other purposes. 8. Vineries, fig-house, &c. 9, Peach-houses. 10. Cucumber ridge,-and 
for carrots and potatoes under hoops, &c. 11. Melon and cucumber ranges. 12. Pits. 
13. Sheds. 14. More sheds, if wanted. 15. Water-tanks. 16. Back-sheds. 17. Gardener’s 
house and yard. 18, Fruit and onion room, with lodging-room for under-gardener, and 
seed-room over, ; 


12 
(TTT TT) 


ou 


eter delet b-bebebatey seta! eledole de lel-)e-) l= |=-1-alnf SY Pedy El eed bed bad ed Peden Pod Poet ed ed Coed sy eel ey NP edd Od Pa old ol od Od Me ed Pad Dd Od a al Od Dd odd el ed ttt Td 


Foti bel oot bs Geeta Ol co Ss a 


f-t—1=*—1 1-1-1 1- |= -1- |= Jit 1-1-1-1 1-1-1 1-1 


food and Shelter for Game. 431 


especially in gardens of any considerable size. In this plan a 
cross wall is added, both for the sake of shelter, and to afford a 
proportionate length of wall for fruit trees. 

Shorigrove, Essex, 1834. 


Art. IV. On the Trees and Shrubs which are most suitable for Plant- 
ing, to afford Food and Shelter for Game, and more especially for 
the Pheasant. By Mr. James Munro. 


Tue filling up of old plantations with various sorts of evergreens 
and of deciduous flowering shrubs, is now becoming generally 
practised throughout the country; and the chief object for 
which this is intended is to produce a shelter for game, and more 
especially for the pheasant. The planting of these undergrowths 
is, however, like many other things, often performed without 
regard to consequences or economy; while the chief aim ought, 
in this case, to be a conjunction of the useful with the beautiful. 
Certainly, there can be nothing better adapted for the purposes 
of sheltering game than the common laurel, Portugal laurel, 
rhododendron, holly, arbor vite, &c., while these produce, at 
the same time, an agreeable effect upon the forest scenery ; 
which, without the aid of evergreens and other undergrowths, 
is extremely menotonous. Still, however, while we endeavour 
to produce both these effects, we should also have an eye to 
something useful and economical. What avails it how well 
soever game be provided with close and impenetrable coverts, 
when the common means of sustenance are wanting within their 
leafy domicile? The birds are compelled by hunger to leave 
behind “‘ the umbrageous glade,” and seek their food in the 
fields of the farmers; who, in some districts of the country where 
pheasants are very plentiful, are compelled to seek redress for 
the damages thus sustained. Such a course, on the part of a 
tenant, though it is quite fair and reasonable, is a very disagree- 
able alternative, and must prove destructive of that friendly in- 
tercourse which ought to subsist between tenant and landlord. 
To the true sportsman, too, such a state of things is altogether 
incompatible with good taste; the frequent migrations of the 
pheasant from forest to field in quest of food, so far domesti- 
cates the bird, that even those who can feel a pleasure in de- 
priving it of life are bereft of half their enjoyment; for, so far 
as what is termed sport is considered, they might as well take 
their station behind the barn-yard wall, and shoot at the poultry 
quietly feeding at the barn door. | 

On these grounds, I confidently expect the cooperation of 
both the sportsman and the economist, in my endeavour to 


accomplish a means of providing pheasants with food, in woods 
HH 2 


432 Food and Shelter for Game. 


and in pleasure-grounds, in such abundance as shall in a great 
measure prevent them from attacking and destroying field crops, 
remove the cause of complaint of tenants against them, and, 
by restoring the birds to their native shyness, render them more 
worthy of the true sportsman’s notice. I am nearly convinced 
that these desirable ends might be accomplished by the introduc- 
tion of a number of our cultivated fruits into the forests where 
the latter chance to be thin, and well aired; and particularly 
around the margins, where there can be little doubt of their 
thriving. These fruits might consist of all the common varieties 
of currant, gooseberry, raspberry, service *, &c., with all the early 
and hardy sorts of apple and pear that are known to suit the 
climate of any particular locality. Pears, in particular, I have 
seen the pheasant devour with great avidity. I am aware that 
two objections will be offered to this proposal: first, the expense 
of fruit trees, and of small fruit bushes. These, so long as the 
demand remains limited, will, of course, keep up their present 
prices ; but, were the demand for such articles increasing, nur- 
serymen would likewise increase their respective stocks of them, 
and, with the certainty of double the usual sales, would be well 
able to sell, in large quantities, at greatly reduced prices. The 
other objection is, the encouragement which would thus be given 
to juvenile depredators; but the cause of this objection would 
disappear as the fruits became common by every road side: the 
fruit-growers on Clydesdale and elsewhere can testify to the 
truth of this. ‘The evergreen privet is another shrub, the im- 
portance of which, as a covert for game, seems not to be fully 
known. ‘This plant, like the laurel, retains its Jeaves all the 
winter, and is so elastic in its fibre, that it soon loses its upright 
habit, and, bending down to the earth, throws out roots of its 
own accord, and so forms one of the most comfortable coverts 
imaginable. The privet possesses another desirable property. 
About two years ago, I was employed in packing up a few 
thousand plants of privet, about 2 ft. high, which had all 
flowered the previous summer, and produced berries in large 
quantities: while handling the plants, a few barn-yard fowls, 
which I then kept, came and picked off the berries, which they 
seemed to prefer to the oats which were strewed around them. 
Now, it is not improbable that pheasants might be just as fond 
of this fruit as these fowls were. I will only farther add, that, 
if food of this description were provided in sufficient quantity, 
it being partly the pheasant’s natural food, the flesh of the bird 
might also be improved in flavour. 
Brechin, March 25. 1834. 


* Symphoria racemésa, with its large white berries, which are freely pro- 
duced, might also be eligible: indeed, I think, I have been told of some one’s 
planting it in coyerts for pheasants, that they might partake of its berries for 
food. 


Culture of the Potato. 433 


Mr. Waterton has contributed an excellent communication on the habits 
of the pheasant to the Magazine of Natural Mstory, vi. 308—314. We quote 
Mr. Waterton’s remarks on providing this bird with food:—“ Food and a 
quiet retreat are the two best offers that man can make to the feathered race, 
to induce them to take up their abode on his domain; and they are absolutely 
necessary to the successful propagation of the pheasant. This bird has a 
capacious stomach, and requires much nutriment; while its timidity soon 
causes it to abandon those places which are disturbed. It is fond of acorns, 
beech mast, the berries of the hawthorn, the seeds of the wild rose, and the 
tubers of the Jerusalem artichoke. As long as these, and the corn dropped 
in the harvest, can be procured, the pheasant will do very well. In the spring, 
it finds abundance of nourishment in the sprouting leaves of young clover ; 
but, from the commencement of the new year till the vernal period, their wild 
food affords a very scanty supply; and the bird will be exposed to all the 
evils of the vagrant act, unless you can contrive to keep it at home by an 
artificial supply of food. Boiled potatoes (which the pheasant prefers much 
to those in the raw state) and beans are, perhaps, the two most nourishing 
things that can be offered in the depth of winter. Beans, in the end, are 
cheaper than all the smaller kinds of grain; because the little birds, which 
usually swarm at the place where the pheasants are fed, cannot swallow them ; 
and if you conceal the beans under yew or holly bushes, or under the lower 
branches of the spruce fir tree, they will be out of the way of the rooks and 
ringdoves. About two roods of the thousand-headed cabbage are a most 
valuable acquisition to the pheasant preserve. You sow a few ounces of seed 
in April, and transplant the young plants, two feet asunder, in the month of 
June. By the time that the harvest is allin, these cabbages will afford a most 
excellent aliment to the pheasants, and are particularly serviceable when the 
ground is deeply covered with snow.” — J. 


Art. V. On the Cultivation of Potatoes, the Cause of the Curl, and 
the Manner of keeping and preparing the Sets. By W. M. 


On reading the observations on planting potatoes, by J. Hart 
of Dublin (LX. 589.), it struck me that, if every one would com- 
municate the results of his own practice as a potato-grower, 
it would elicit facts from which correct data might be obtained 
that would enable horticulturists to determine generally what 
are the real causes of failure in the cultivation of that valuable 
vegetable. 

Much has been said on the curl in potatees, and many reasons 
have been assigned as to the cause of it; but most of them are 
unsatisfactory, being often directly opposed to every day’s experi- 
ence. Perhaps my ideas on the subject may be as vague as 
those of my predecessors; but, be that as it may, I have the 
satisfaction of knowing that, by attention to the rules here laid 
down, I have never failed of success. 

I shall begin with the most prevailing idea, that the curl is 
occasioned by the over-matured state of the tubers from which 
the plants were taken. ‘This is a point on which I differ from 
some who rank high as vegetable physiologists; but, always 


judging for myself according as circumstances have occurred, I 
HH 3 


434 Culture of the Potato. 


am induced to believe that much more importance is attached 
to that cause than it really deserves. ‘That it is possible for 
potatoes to be over-matured, I admit; but it will only occur 
in those seasons that are exceptions to our summers, generally 
considered. 

During the last twenty years I have been extensively con- 
nected with the culture of potatoes on various soils, and by 
many different methods, both for early and late crops; and, 
though I have never suffered from an attack of the curl, I have 
in many instances seen the crops of those around me suffering 
to a great extent during that period. I will describe my prac- 
tice in as few words as possible. For early crops I always plant 
tubers produced from an early crop the preceding season, in 
preference to those of a later growth. I consider tubers well 
matured preferable for planting, because in them the embryo 
of the future plant is more perfect than in those not yet arrived 
at a state of maturity; and, consequently, the functions of the 
plant are brought more readily into action by the three great 
agents of vegetation, light, heat, and moisture, than in those of 
later growth. The well keeping of potatoes intended for plant- 
ing is a very material point as respects the curl in the future 
crop. I hesitate not to say that the curl is often caused by the 
injudicious manner in which potatoes are frequently stored 
through the autumn and winter months. We often see them 
thrown into large heaps, and suffered to remain till young shoots 
appear through the top of the heap. They are then perchance 
turned over, to rub off the young shoots, and again consigned to 
chance till another crop of shoots appear. Indeed, I have known 
instances where three successive crops have appeared before the 
time for planting had arrived. Under these and similar circum- 
stances, we have no reason to expect a healthy growth and good 
crop; it is quite impossible that plants, with their vegetative 
powers thus nearly exhausted, can fully develope their respective 
parts; and hence those monstrosities, contortions, and contracted 
appearances of the stem and foliage, which end in disappoint- 
ment to the grower. It is not to be inferred that I consider 
this as the sole cause of the curl in potato crops; on the con- 
trary, I believe that there are others; but these appear to me of 
a secondary nature, and I may at some future time address you 
respecting them, should you deem the hints here thrown out 
worth attention. 

My method of keeping potatoes for planting is this :—I lay 
by well-matured tubers of my earliest crops, in a dark dry shed, 
frequently turning them over, to prevent them from sprouting ; 
which by proper attention may be effectually done. They will 
retain their vegetative powers unimpaired. When the season 
for planting arrives, I cut my sets in the following manner: 


Culture of the Potato near Aberdeen. 435 


first, I cut off the blind eye, as it is generally called, at the base 
of the potato, and throw it into the waste basket; I then proceed 
to divide the remaining part, according to the size of the tuber, 
and the number of eyes it contains, always taking care to have 
one good full eye at least to each set; and, when the sets are cut, 
I lay them in a moderately thick heap for a few days, that they 
may dry before planting, taking especial care, in early crops 
particularly, not to plant when the ground is very wet from heavy 
rains or snow. 

I have frequently taken tubers from fully matured crops, and 
exposed them to the influence of the sun for several weeks; and 
in the following season planted them at the same time, and on 
the same piece of ground, with tubers of a late crop; the results 
have fully confirmed my opinion, that planting early-produced 
tubers, for early crops, is the best method to adopt. 

Respecting the idea that late-produced tubers will not produce 
a curled progeny, I submit the following case, to show that they 
are as likely to produce curl in the succeeding crop as the most 
matured tubers. In the year 1826, through the prevalence of 
rain, the late crops were generally not of a marketable quality ; 
consequently the greater part were reserved by the growers for 
planting. ‘The following spring and summer, the curl prevailed 
to a great extent, and hundreds of acres were ploughed up, the 
crop not being worth the expense of taking. JI examined many 
hundreds of plants on different soils and under different modes 
of treatment, and seldom found more than three or four per 
cent of healthy plants. On carefully examining the soil, I 
found nothing to induce a belief that it was caused by any local 
circumstance; indeed, so general was the disease, that the 
most sceptical growers declared they could not ascribe it to any 
other cause than the unripe state of the sets; a conclusion 
strengthened by the fact, that those who planted well-ripened 
tubers had crops free from curl and as productive as usual. 

East Ham, Oct. 28. 1833. 


Art. VI. An Account of a Mode of cultivating Potatoes in the 
Neighbourhood of Aberdeen; preceded by some Remarks on the 
Potato Culture of the Neighbourhood of Dublin. By Mr. JAMES 
Wricut, Gardener at Westfield, near Aberdeen. 


In turning over your Magazine, I observe (IX. 589.) “a 
note on the planting of potatoes,” by James Hart, Dublin. I 
was rather surprised to see such a communication [see X. 78.] 
from a country so celebrated for the cultivation of the potato as 
Ireland is generally reported to be. Ido not approve of the 


Trishman’s mode, as a whole, and of Mr. Hart’s amendment 
HH 4 


436 Culture of the Potato 


still less. I shall neither occupy my own time nor your widely 
circulating pages by reviewing it in detail, but shall briefly notice 
a few of its most prominent points. Your correspondent states 
“‘ that potatoes, when they are cut, should not be spread out to 
dry, but laid up in a close heap for about a fortnight before 
planting,” and by such means he obtained three quarters of a 
crop! What description of floor the seed from ‘ Campbelton” 
had been spread upon, I cannot conceive. In the last week of 
December, 1833, I cut a few sets, and laid them flat down 
with their cut sides undermost, on purpose to try the expe- 
riment, upon floors of the following materials; namely, wood, 
Caithness pavement, brick, and black earth. I also, by means 
of a string from the roof of a summer-house, suspended a 
few, like Mahomet’s coffin, and I could discover no difference, 
except that those upon the wood, and those suspended, were 
drier than the others. In 1827, I cut my sets rather early, 
and laid about five Aberdeenshire bolls, or 13 ton, into a heap 
for three weeks ; when taken out, a great part of the sets com- 
posing the interior of the heap were like soap, and others were 
like empty shells. About one tenth of them never appeared 
above ground, and nearly a fifth of those which came were cut 
up by the curl. 

The selection of the sets I consider the most important part 
of potato-growing. I rent annually, from a gentleman about 
three miles from my own place, from one to two acres for grow- 
ing winter potatoes: there I raise all my seed for the ensuing 
year ; and the potatoes that I use for this purpose are as different 
from those grown in my own grounds as if they were imported 
from the foot of the Himalaya Mountains. There may not 
be such variety of soil in the vicinity of Dublin. When the 
stems begin to fade, but long before the potatoes are ripe, I go 
over the drills and pick out all the runaway stems, which show 
themselves by standing upright and growing vigorously. At 
the same time I dig up all the potatoes which I design for seed, 
and lay them in pits of perhaps two bolls each, and leave them 
uncovered for several weeks. I begin to dung and dig the 
ground by the Ist of March; I take the seed potatoes from the pits 
about the middle of the month, and cut them into good strong 
sets, and spread them out to dry upon the floor of a summer- 
house, for two or three days; and then plant them at convenience. 

The common way of planting about Aberdeen, for generations 
back, has been with a small dibble, about 1+ in. in diameter; 
the planter carrying the sets in a bag before him. A good hand 
will plant half an acre per day in this manner; but, from the 
small size of the dibble, some of the sets go plump to the 
bottom, others half down, while others stop in entering. To 
remedy this defect, I have invented a dibble (fg. 76.) of the fol- 


an the Neighbourhood of Aberdeen. 437 


lowing dimensions :— Handle 14 in. long, stalk 
from a to 6 27 in., from 6 to c 73 in.; circum- 
ference of the stalk 43 in., at d 8 in., and at 
e 6in.: from & to ¢ is covered with iron one 
eighth of an inch thick, with a point of solid steel 
1% in. deep. I lay down two lines 18 in. apart 
on one side of the ground to be planted, and, 
a_ilb taking the dibble in both hands, with a foot 
on each side of the line, I make the holes at 
, the rate of eighty a minute; a boy follows 
close behind with a small basket, dropping 
in the sets, and drawing one foot over the holes, so as to cover 
them neatly in. Then, by lifting both lines at each end alter- 
nately, there is always one of them tight. ‘This method of plant- 
ing is superior to every other that I know of, where ease, despatch, 
and accuracy cf execution are desirable. The size of the hole 
has this advantage, that the largest cutting goes to the bottom 
(6 in.), and the smallest goes no farther ; consequently, they come 
up all together, strong and healthy, and as equal, as to distance, 
as if they had been pointed off with a pair of compasses. A man 
and a boy putting in the sets will plant three quarters of an acre 
a day with the greatest ease. The system of keeping the 
“cuttings of the one end separate from those of the other, 
drilling, and covering in with the hoe,” may be all very well for 
a gentleman’s gardener, who has time, men, and money at com- 
mand; but, to a market-gardener paying a high rent, the smallest 
saving of either is of paramount importance. ‘The above simple 
process (simple in every respect, and which may be adopted by 
the poorest person in the “ Emerald Isle,” without requiring 
either extra time or expense) I have practised, with uniform 
success, for six years; and the produce has generally been 
32 bolls per acre of early, and 40 of late potatoes; or 11 and 
14 tons, or thereabouts, in soil light and dry. With the ‘Scotch 
pink eye,” and “ Scotch apple,” Iam not at all acquainted. The 
“* Manlie,” a round potato, and the red-nosed kidney, are both 
early, and, I think, superior to any of the metropolitan varieties 
that I have seen (and I have had numbers of them), where they 
are grown to eat as well as to sell. ‘The red-nosed and blue 
kidneys, and blue American round, are superior to any other late 
sorts. ‘This method of culture may be perfectly understood, and 
generally practised in England, but I have neither seen, nor 
heard of, its existence there. 
Westfield, January 16. 1834. 


76 


a 


Mr. Wricut has since, in a communication dated March 20., favoured us 
with tubers of the Manlie and red-nosed kidney potatoes, of which he has 
spoken above. On the kind called the Manlie, he has added, that “ an old 


438 Culture of the Kidney-bean. 


gardener is living here just now, who recollects perfectly this kind being 
landed, in a small basket, from a Dutch vessel, fifty-five years ago. I will not 
pretend to say that they are better now than they were then, but mine are 
superior to what they were eight years ago, when I commenced business. 
This goes far to corroborate my former statement, that varieties of potato 
may be not only kept from degenerating, but that they may even attain greater 
perfection (due attention being paid to the seed), without importing fresh 
seed potatoes from a distance.” 


Art. VII. A Method of expediting the Fruiting of Kidneybeans in 
the open Air; and « Mode of obtaining a Second Crop from those 
forced in the Stove. By Mr. James Curnit1, Gardener to S. SuL- 
LIVAN, Esq., at Broom House, Fulham. 


I wave tried an experiment with the early dun kidneybean, 
which I have found answers beyond my expectations, and which, 
I trust, may be of some use to your readers. I sowed a large 
pan of these beans about the middle of March, and put it into 
a house the temperature of which was about 60°. After the 
first leaves had expanded, I removed the plants into a cold pit, 
where they remained till the 15th of April following. ‘They were 
then (still in the pan) exposed to a south aspect, and covered, 
for a few nights, with matting; and, finally, about the Ist of 
May, I planted them out into an open border, having a western 
aspect. The stems were then about 8 in. long, and, to prevent 
them from damping off, I did not plant them above an inch 
deeper than they stood in the pan, but moulded them up by 
degrees. When transplanted, the leaves were quite brown, 
but the centre bud was green; the old roots were quite dead, 
and new ones about an inch or so long. I planted them in the 
centre of the border; and, upon the same day, transplanted 
into the same border other beans of the same sort, but sowed 
at the usual time. ‘The result has been, that I had beans from 
the former upon the 12th of June: the latter will be ready, as 
near as I can judge, about the 28th of that month; making 
about a fortnight’s difference in the time of ripening: and this ~ 
difference would have been greater, had I had a south border 
at the time to have planted them on. I may add, that I looked at 
the other gardens in the neighbourhood, and saw no kidneybeans, 
in the open air, ready before my second crop. ‘This mode of 
treating the kidneybean was not adopted from accident, but I 
was driven to try the experiments which led to it by sheer 
necessity. Every gardener knows that, when the forcing of the 
kidneybean is prolonged to a late season in houses, the plants 
become infested with a well-known insect; and, if they are 
planted out in a pit or frame, they are attacked by the red 
spider, which will soon spread all over the melon ground : and 


Proportion borne by Roots to Branches. 439 


the gardener, for the sake of a few beans, draws upon himself 
an annoyance that he can hardly get rid of for the whole 
summer. 

I tried another experiment with some plants of the same sort 
of beans, that were growing in a pit in a hot-house, and had 
been transplanted into a little mould on the tan in cross rows, 
about 5 ft. from the glass, after they had done bearing a most 
excellent crop. I cut these plants down to 1 in. above the seed 
leaf, and watered them well. In about a fortnight they were in 
full flower, and bore as good a crop as I have had from beans 
that had been transplanted into pots, and that had taken three 
times as long in coming in bearing. 

Broom House, Fulham, June 20. 1834. 


Art. VIII. Short Communication. 


TuHE Proportion borne by the Roots of a Tree to its Branches.— 
Virgil’s account of the Adsculus, 


“ Que, quantum vertice ad auras 
7Ethereas, tantum radice in Tartara tendit ;” 

| “Which, as it high 

Uprears its head to heaven, so deep in root 

Shoots downwards to the centre;” Trapp’s Trans. 


is generally regarded, I suppose, as a mere poetical hyperbole, 
descriptive of a tree whose roots extend to a very great depth ; 
and, as applied to a full-grown or large tree, it can be con- 
sidered as no other. ‘There are cases, however, of young seed- 
ling trees, in which the poet’s description, so far from exceeding, 
does not, bya great deal, even come up to the truth. A few 
weeks since, I got up a self-sown seedling oak, of this year’s 
growth, out of a wheat stubble: the plant above ground, which 
was thriving and vigorous, was 4 in. high; while the root below 
(that is, the portion of it which I succeeded in getting up) mea- 
sured 2 ft.103in. Here, then, was a tree which far out-rooted 
Virgil’s Aésculus; for its root below was more than eight times 
the length of its stem above; and, had the root been obtained 
entire, it would probably have considerably exceeded the above 
dimensions. I have known instances of oaks, of five or six or 
more years’ growth, whose roots have many times surpassed the 
length of their stem and branches. Occasionally, indeed, these 
trees appear to me to exhaust their efforts, for several years to- 
gether, entirely on the growth downwards (“ tantus amor 
terree!” so much do they love the earth), as if to make the 
better provision for the future more rapid increase of the plant 
above, which, for the time, will be almost at a stand-still— W™% 
T. Bree. Allesley Rectory, Nov. 6. 1833. 


44.0 Transactions of the Agricultural 


REVIEWS. - 


Arr. 1, Yransactions of the Agricultural and Horticultural Society of India. 
8vo. Vol. I. 1829, Serampore. Vol. II. Part I., 1832, Calcutta. 


Ture is a well-written prospectus by Mr. W. Carey the missionary, who 
first suggested the idea of an Agricultural Society of India, and who is now 
secretary to it. In this the advantages of cooperation, and of joint-stock 
information and experience, are ably pointed out. The good done by the agri- 
cultural societies in England is reterred to; and the most beneficial results, 
as respects the peasantry, tle landowners, and the Europeans, who engage in 
agriculture in India, are anticipated from the institution proposed. To give 
some idea of the present state of agriculture in India, it is stated that, in many 
parts of the country, the same crop is invariably raised on the same ground 
year after year; hay is never cut till the grass has died or withered where it grew; 
scientific rotation of crops is a subject to which Indian cultivators are stran- 
gers; and the manure produced by animals is generally consumed for fuel. No 
attempt to improve live stock appears to have been ever made in India; though 
there is every reason to believe that all the animals used in the husbandry of 
Europe are capable of as high a degree of improvement in India as they are 
in more temperate regions. The quantity of waste lands in India is said to be 
so large as almost to exceed belief. Extensive tracts on the banks of numerous 
rivers are annually overflowed, so that they produce little except long and 
coarse grass, seldom turned to any useful account. During the rainy season 
these tracts are the haunts of wild buffaloes, which in the night come up from 
them and devour the crops of rice on the high lands. In the cold season, wild 
hogs, tigers, and other noxious animals, unite with the buffaloes in occupying 
these extensive tracts of alluvial soil; which, though now so pernicious, might, 
by embanking and draining, become the richest lands in the country, and 
contribute greatly to the improvement of the climate. Similar observations 
might be made respecting immense tracts now wholly covered with wood, and 
producing nothing whatever to civilised man; but, on the contrary, proving a 
nuisance to the surrounding districts, by affording a shelter to noxious animals. 
The oppression of landowners and petty officers on the cultivator is so great, 
that in some parts of the country no farmer can reasonably promise himself 
security for a single night. ‘‘ Thus,” concludes Mr. Carey, “ one of the finest 
countries in the world, comprising almost every variety of climate and situation, 
diversified by hills and valleys, intersected in every part by streams (most of 
which are navigable six months in the year, and seme of them through the whole 
vear afford every facility for carrying manure to the land and every part of 
the produce to market), is, as far as respects its agricultural interests, in a 
state the most abject and degraded.” (p.x.) This isa most forbidding picture ; 
but it is incident to all countries in a particular stage of their progress in 
civilisation. Time was when the low districts of England were ravaged by 
the wolves and bears from the mountain forests, and when the crops on the 
alluvial vales of her rivers were annually swept away, or at least greatly 
injured, by floods. As to oppression by superiors, and thieving from others, 
there will always be abundance of such evils, till mankind are brought to 
something like equalisation in point of knowledge, and consequently power ; 
till, in short, the mass of society becomes fit for self-government. 

Gardening, we are next informed, is in almost as low a state as agriculture. 
«Except in the gardens of certain Europeans, who at a great expense procure 
a few articles for the table, there is nothing to be met with besides a few wild 
herbs, or garden productions of the most inferior kind. All that is seen of 
orchards amounts to no more than clumps of mango trees crowded together 
without judgment ; and in which the quality of the fruit is but little consulted. 
The improvement of fruits is almost neglected, and every thing which can 


and Horticultural Society of India. 441 


contribute to the furnishing of our tables with wholesome and agreeable 
vegetables and fine fruits is yet to be commenced; not to mention that orna- 
mental gardening is scarcely known. We depend upon Europe for seeds, of 
which, when we have obtained them at a great price, scarcely one in five 
hundred vegetates, and, even after it has sprung up, seldom comes to perfec- 
tion, through the ignorance or negligence of the native gardeners. It is, 
notwithstanding, well known that one part or other of India would suit every 
production, and bring every kind of seed to maturity ; so that, by a free com- 
munication, those parts of the country in which the seeds of particular plants 
do not come to perfection, might be easily supplied with them from others, 
and useful plants and fruits might be gradually acclimated, so as to be plentiful 
in every part of India. The introduction of the potato, and more recently 
of the strawberry, are sufficient to show that the attempts of insulated indi- 
viduals have not been in vain. How much more then might be accomplished 
by the joint efforts of a number of persons arduously engaged in the same 
pursuit!”? (p. xi.) 

This deplorable state of things Mr. Carey proposed attempting to improve, 
by the establishment of a Society which should give premiums, and publish 
reports ; raising the funds necessary for that purpose by subscription. The 
Society was formed in 1820, and, after having held several meetings, a number 
of premiums were given, for the first time, at a meeting held in Jan. 1827; and 
the work before us includes the reports that have hitherto been made to the 
Society ; or, rather, the papers which have been contributed to its Transactions. 

To give an idea of the articles exhibited at these meetings for competi- 
tion, we may mention that, at the first meeting (in January, 1827) at which 
prizes were distributed, the articles produced were chiefly of European 
garden produce; such as peas, cabbages, turnips, cauliflowers, beet, mangoes, 
guavas, kohl rabi, red cabbage, and potatoes. The silver medal was awarded 
to Yusuf Malee, of Moochee-khola, for the best potatoes raised from Cape 
sets. The cabbages weighed from 20 to 24 |b., and were 10 in. in diameter. 
The cauliflowers weighed from 6 to 8 lb., and were about 8 in. in diameter ; 
the kohl rabi 3 lb., and 54 in. in diameter; the turnips 2 lb., and 6 in. in 
diameter; and the potatoes were 34 in. long. (App. p. xxxvii.) 

We shall now look over the different papers which compose the Transactions, 
and shall select what we think will be most interesting or useful to our readers. 
In the introductory discourse, by the president, W. Leycester, Esq., we think 
the good produced by the British Board of Agriculture is greatly overrated. 
Instead of going to the root of the evils of British agriculture, and directing 
its attention to the removal of tithes, of injurious restrictions in leases, and 
similar political obstacles, and striking at the general ignorance of farmers, the 
British Board of Agriculture limited its exertions to publishing books, most 
of them at so high a price that they never fell into the hands of those for 
whom they were intended.. We question much whether the Agricultural 
Society of India durst venture to propose to diffuse knowledge among the 
native agriculturists by educating their children. If they dare do this, they 
may rest assured, from the negative results of the agricultural societies of 
Britain, that it is the only effectual mode of really improving agriculture or 
gardening. A certain degree of knowledge is necessary to enable cultivators 
to make the improvements pointed out to them their own: this degree was 
not possessed by the great majority of the farmers of England, when the 
Board of Agriculture was im activity, and it is much less likely to be so in 
India. The consequence, in England, has been, that, in many districts, agricul- 
ture is scarcely, if at all, advanced beyond its state in the year 1790, before 
the Board of Agriculture was established. The same tenures from year to 
year; or, if a longer tenure, the same leases, prescribing the same courses 
of crops which were practised centuries before; the same ploughs, carts, 
and waggons, and the same heavy horses, may still be seen by the tourist. In 
agriculture, therefore, as in all matters which concern the improvement of the 
practices of great masses of society, to do good effectually, it is necessary to 


442 Transactions of the Agricultural 


begin with a general system of education for youth. Let this be done in 
every district throughout India; connecting, with every school that is esta- 
blished, a garden and a circulating library; and teaching, in addition to the 
language of that district, the English language, weights, measures, and moneys : 
if this were done, the system of culture, both in fields and gardens, would in 
one generation be placed in a state to receive every improvement of which it 
is susceptible. But how can we suppose that this 1s to be attempted in India, 
when we know very well that the object of the rulers is not to improve the 
people, but to turn them to their own account? We must leave the matter, 
therefore, to Providence, and expect nothing more from this Society than from 
others similarly established and circumstanced. 

Art. Iv. contains answers by Mr. Stirling to a number of queries circulated 
by Mr. Carey, in one of which allusion is made to the celebrated school 
at Hofwyl, in Switzerland, “ as a proper model for any schools which may 
be hereafter instituted in this country (India), in the establishing of which the 
Society may possess sufficient influence.” “I cannot conceive,’ says Mr. 
Stirling, speaking of the establishment of such schools in India, “ any measure 
which would tend so much to the production of universal improvement.” 
(p. 43.) We are happy to find such sentiments entertained even by a single 
individual. 

In Art. v., preserving seeds in phials of bran, or charcoal, packed in cotton, 
is recommended ; a specimen being presented, in October, 1821, of turnip seeds 
capable of vegetating, which had been sent from Scotland in March, 1820. 

Art. vi. describes a mode of flute-grafting practised in India, apparently 
from time immemorial. It differs from the flute-graftmg of Europe in not 
taking off the ring of bark from the stock, which is to be replaced by the ring 
from the scion, but in peeling it down in shreds; and, when the scion ring is 
put on, bringing the different shreds of bark up again over the newly introduced 
ring, and uniting them at top over the cross section of the stock, under a 
piece of clay. It is evidently a less perfect mode than the European, since 
the bark so brought up can never unite either with the scion or with the 
stock. (p.47.) 

In Art. xvi. it is shown that good hemp may be prepared from the different 
species of Musa and Yucca. 

Art. xrx., “ On the fruit trees of Cashmere and the neighbouring countries,” 
is of considerable interest. The fleshy and pulpy fruits are apples, pears, 
quinces, peaches, apricots, plums, cherries, and mulberries. The shell and stone 
fruits are pomegranates, walnuts, and almonds. There are many varieties of 
grape vines, both of exotic and of indigenous origin; and, while the country 
was under Hindoo rule, much wine was made, and some brandy distilled. No 
mulberry of Europe, or of Lower India, equals the sweet varieties of Cash- 
mere. They are eaten ripe, or made into wine, vinegar, or spirit. An immense 
quantity of oil and oil cake is made from the walnut, and the wood of the 
tree is said to equal that of Britain for gunstocks. It is calculated that 
Cashmere would supply as much walnut oil as would furnish gas enough to 
light all Britain. A situation between Cashmere and British India is pointed 
out as eligible for a nursery, in which the native fruits of both countries, and 
newly introduced fruits from Europe, might be propagated and improved. 

“ This is the Shahlomer, or garden of Pingower, made by Fiddee Khan, 
the son of Uleemurdem Khan, both formerly governors of the province of 
Cashmere. A wall of well-constructed masonry, in good repair, completely 
encloses an area of very considerable extent. This area is divided into five 
terraces, separated by breastworks of stone masonry, and descending to the 
south. Through the middle of this garden, led by a canal lined with stone, 
descends a considerable stream of clear, well-tasted, and cold water, which, 
by means of trenches, of simple structure and arrangement, at right angles with 
the main trunk, can be so diffused as speedily to flood the whole surface 
of the terraces. This area at present contains only one large lemon tree, some 
Lombardy poplars, a few rose trees; five or six parterres of poppies, and 


and Florticultural Socrety of India. 443 


larkspurs, and about half a dozen brood mares. It has upon it two small but 
neat houses, with apartments for servants, near the gate, and the whole is in 
good repair.” (p. 85.) 

In this article, the floating gardens of Cashmere (Encyc. of Gard. new 
edit. ) 1391.) are described; and it appears that the cucumbers and melons 
grown in them are neither very large nor very well flavoured. At a distance, 
the smaller of these gardens appear like haycocks; one melon or cucumber 
plant growing on the summit, and spreading down the sides; the larger are 
like narrow ridges of dung made up for growing mushrooms, with rows of 
cucumbers or melons along the top. The floating gardens are frequently 
collected together in a sort of fold, and surrounded by a floating fence, having 
a boat-way, which is opened only at particular times. Floating gardens of 
great extent are sometimes stolen during the night, and being towed a consi- 
derable distance, and anchored along with others of a similar character, it is 
difficult for the owner to recognise his property. To prevent these robberies, 
folds of floating gardens are generally watched during the night. 

Art. XXII. contains the method of treating grape vines at Bombay; in which 
the chief thing worthy of remark is the mode of giving them a kind of 
artificial winter. This is done by laying bare the roots after the rainy season, 
so as to check vegetation. They are laid bare about the 7th or 10th of 
October, and are allowed to remain exposed for 15 or 16 days. The vines 
are then pruned, and in about a week afterwards, it is observed that the buds 
are beginning to break; the roots are then re-covered with the soil mixed 
with manure, and water is given to them every morning and evening till the 
fruit attains its full growth. They are afterwards watered every third or fourth 
day, till the grapes are completely ripe. It thus appears that the length of the 
winter given to the vine in Bombay is about 26 days, which may perhaps 
afford a useful hint to the British forcing gardener. It does not appear that 
the produce of the vines in Bombay is very great, but the gardeners have 
no difficulty, by means of wintering different plants in succession, in having 
ripe grapes every day in the year. 

Art. XxIv. is a translation from a native gardening work full of receipts for 
rendering plants fruitful, flowers fragrant, and for changing their colours, &c. 
There is scarcely one of these receipts that is not perfectly absurd; for 
example: “To cure all diseases of vegetables, make a smoke in the field, with 
cows’jand cats’ benes, and cats’ dung” (p. 141.); though the results pro- 
posed may sometimes be accounted for by the check given to the returning 
sap. 

iA v. Vol. II. is on the mango and peach trees. “ No fruit in India is 
held in such estimation by the whole mass of its population, from Delhi 
to Cape Comorin, as the mango.” The peach, though a fine fruit, is com- 
paratively little valued. The mango is allowed to be extremely wholesome 
and nutritious. There are a great many varieties of mangoes to be found in 
the orchards of India; but, like the peaches in the American orchards, they 
have been generally raised from seeds sown on the spot, and the majority of 
them are of very inferior quality. 

In Art. vit. it is stated, that, in order to have good and early crops of cauli- 
flowers, cabbages, peas, turnips, &c., it is absolutely necessary to sow only 
seed which has been raised in the country. For late crops, that which has 
been raised at the Cape of Gocd Hope, or Van Diemen’s Land, is found best. 
European seeds should be chiefly used for producing plants as stock from 
which to raise seed in India. There are some papers on the culture of 
indigo and sugar, and one on the cultivation of the teak, which we have not 
space to enter on. The growth of the teak is said to be rapid, and the wood 
at all ages is found excellent. In these and other respects it is said to have 
greatly the advantage of the British oak. A teak board, however, is some- 
ee consumed in a single night by the species of insect popularly called the 
white ant. 


44:4 DL? Aorticulteur Belge, 


Art. Il. L’Horticulteur Belge, Journal des Jardiniers et Amateurs. Tn 
monthly numbers. 8yo. Vol. I. Nos. V. VI. and VII. Brussels, 1833. 


Tus monthly Gardener’s Magazine was commenced in March 1833, and 
discontinued with the seventh number ; a circumstance which we regret, be- 
cause its editor seems to have been a scientific and intelligent man. The first 
article in No. v., we have already given the essence of in p. 305. to p.313. The 
other articles, in this and the succeeding numbers, are of comparatively little 
interest to British gardeners, though good in themselves. The first is on the 
field and garden culture suitable for Algiers. The next on travelling plants, 
such as the common O’rchis, a plant of which, according to Bosc, would, at 
the end of a century, be found between 9 and 10 ft. distant from the point 
where it was planted at the commencement ; and this he accounts for by stat- 
ing that, when the old bulb dies every year, a new one is formed at its side, 
and always on the same side. The author of this paper, M. Ch. Morren, 
made several experiments with the O’rchis latifolia Anet. in 1827, 1828, and 
1829, from which he concludes that this O’rchis does not travel to a distance, 
as M. Bosc supposed, but only oscillates, or moves from one side to the other, 
of a common centre. The O’rchis bifdlia does something more; it turns in 
oscillating, or, as it were, waltzes round a centre; but in such a manner that 
the plant, after it has stood three years, always springs up on the precise spot 
which contains the remains of its grandfather; and this M. Morren con- 
siders as a provision of nature for supplying it with nourishment. He thinks 
it is because gardeners cut over or leave to dry the old stems of orchises, 
instead of letting them rot on the spot where they grew, that their culture in 
gardens is so difficult. M.J.B.van Maelsaccke of Ghent has paid much 
attention to the culture of native Orchidee. M. Morren has seen, in his 
garden, O’rchis latifolia 2 ft. high, with spikes 6 or 7 in. in length, containing 
hundreds of flowers. The success of this gentleman he considers as afford- 
ing a proof that salep might be produced in Belgium as well as in Turkey. 
The Célchicum autumnale, which has generally been considered as having a 
descending bulb, is found at the same time to turn, or spin round a centre. 
(Le Colchique ne marche pas, il n’oscille méme pas ; mais il tourne, il pirouette.) 

“ These examples show what erroneous ideas the authors of horticultural 
works have hitherto generally entertained on vegetable progression. That 
which was extraordinary in their assertions respecting the movements of plants, 
whether laterally or perpendicularly, has disappeared, to give place to a theory 
perhaps still more strange, because it developes a regular and symmetric 
series of phenomena. Thus, in astronomy, mankind formerly believed in 
planetary movements, wandering and without end; but La Place has dispelled 
these visions, and has proved that these were but oscillations, or revolving or 
equally balanced movements, which thus regulate the universe. In botany, ~ 
the same ideas prevailed, and it was fancied that plants would travel without 
limits, and yet nature only displayed oscillations, circular revolutions, and, 
in one word, regular movements. Symmetry is stamped on the forehead of 
every organised being, as it is on that of the universe; it is the character of 
creation.” (p. 161.) 

The next article is on the longevity of the onion, in which the story of an 
onion being found in the hand of a mummy, by Mr. Houlton of London, 
which grew vigorously after having been in the mummy’s hand upwards of 
two thousand years, is introduced, and apparently believed. 

A historical notice of the Botanic Garden at Brussels follows. 

This garden belongs to a company of shareholders. It contains upwards of 
12 acres, with a considerable variety of soil, but with a surface exposed to the 
burning sun in the daytime, and the winds from the north-west in the even- 
ing. The system of hedges, recommended by Linneus, it is thought, might 
give shade and shelter to /’école, or what we should call the general arrange- 
ment ; which is Linnzan, and in front of the hot-houses, as may be seen in 
our plan of the garden. (VIII.401.) There is no Jussieuean arrangement ; no 


Journal des Jardiniers et Amateurs. 445 


collection of medical plants, or of plants used in agriculture or in the arts ; 
no model school of horticultural operations, such as grafting, &c., as in the 
Paris garden; and no library or botanical museum. ‘The range of hot-houses 
is 400 ft. long. The other particulars of this garden will be found in our 
eighth volume, as above referred to. 

An article by Poiteau, taken from the Annales d’ Horticulture de Paris, 
examines the question as to whether white or black walls are preferable for 
fruit trees. Black walls are preferred where the exposure is directly south, 
as moderating the heat during sunshine, and increasing it in the sun’s absence. 
Smooth white walls, facing the south, reflect so much heat during sunshine, 
that they are apt to scorch the branches of peach trees ; but, for east and west 
walls, a white polished surface produces no injury. 

Passing over several articles, we come to a mode of destroying moles, 
which is by placing in their runs earthworms which have been sprinkled with 
the powder of nux vomica two days before, and left in a pot or m a heap till 
they become swelled, so as no longer to be able to bury themselves in the soil. 
The moles eat them, and of course are poisoned. A slight variation of this 
mode has been already noticed. (p. 234.) 

To give apples an agreeable perfume, Bosc long ago directed them to be 
mixed with a few dried elder flowers, and it is now found that a similar effect 
is produced by a few truffles. Elder flowers, cloves, and a little garlic are 
said greatly to improve vinegar. Thatching gooseberry bushes, in the manner 
done with beehives, during winter, is said to be one of the best modes for pre- 
serving the ripe fruit on them for a long time. Tomatoes, when ripe, may be 
preserved a year in a strong solution of salt in water, without boiling, or any 
culinary preparation whatever. When taken out of the brine for use, they 
must be steeped some hours in fresh water. The common privet is highly 
praised as a hedge plant; its leaves contain a great quantity of tannin, and it 
1s said to be cultivated in Silesia for the tanners. The leaves are gathered 
from the hedges when they are clipped in the month of June; they are dried 
in the sun, or in stoves, and afterwards reduced to powder; in which state 
they are sold to the manufacturer. The leaves, when green, are eaten by 
cows and sheep, but not by horses. The shoots of the privet are useful for 
tying articles, and hence the origin of its Latin name ligustrum. In Bel- 

-gium, the shoots are used for basket-making, like those of the osier, and as 
props for vines ; the wood generally makes a superior description of charcoal, 
which is used in manufacturing gunpowder, and the old wood is valued by 
turners for the closeness of its grain, and because it is not liable to be attacked 
by insects. The berries afford winter nourishment to thrushes and other 
birds; they supply a green fluid, used in colouring maps, &c., and a dark sub- 
stance, used in colouring wine; but the most valuable product obtained from 
them is a greenish, mild, agreeably flavoured oil, which may be used both for 
culinary purposes and lamps, or for making soap. For making oil, the berries 
are put into a cask for twelve or fifteen hours; they are then taken out and 
ground, and afterwards pressed, and the oil skimmed off. The marc, or mass 
of husks and seeds, is then ground a second time, heated and moistened, and 
again pressed, when a supply of oil of an inferior description is obtained, 
which is used for coarser purposes. 

The flowers of the lime tree infused in cold water are antispasmodic; and 
in hot water they make an agreeable kind of tea. The leaves and young 
shoots are mucilaginous, and may be employed in poultices and fomentations. 
The tree will clip into any form of hedge, avenue, or bower ; it grows rapidly 
in all calcareous and flinty soils, especially if they are slightly humid. The timber 
is better adapted than any other for the purposes of the carver; it will take 
any form whatever ; it admits of the greatest sharpness in the minute details, 
and it is cut with the greatest ease. It is also used for sounding-boards 
for pianos and other musical instruments. But the peculiar use of the lime 
is the formation of mats from its inner bark. In June, when the leaves begin 
to develope themselves, and the tree is full of sap, branches or stems, of from 


Voi. X.— No. 54. 11 


446 Journal des Jardiniers et Amateurs. 


eight to twenty years’ growth, are cut and trimmed, and the bark is separated 
from them, from one end to the other. This is easily done by simply drawing 
the edge of a knife along the whole length of the tree or branch, so as to cut 
the bark to the soft wood. It then rises on each side of the wound, and 
almost separates of itself. If mats are to be made immediately, the bark is next 
beaten with mallets on a block of wood, and children are employed to separate 
the inner bark, which comes off in strands or ribands, while the outer bark 
detaches itself in scales. If mats are not to be made for some time, the bark 
is dried in a barn or shed, and either kept there, or stacked, till it is wanted.-* 
It is then steeped twenty-four hours in water, beaten as before, and put into a 
heap, where it remains till it undergoes a slight fermentation. When this 
takes place, the inner bark separates in ribands and shreds as before. With 
the shreds, cords of different kinds are twisted in the usual manner; and mats 
are formed with the ribands in the same way as rush mats. The ribands 
which are to be used in forming mats for gardens undergo a sort of bleaching, 
for the purpose of depriving them of part of their mucilage, which would 
otherwise render them too liable to in- 
crease and diminish in bulk by atmo- 
spheric changes. The great advantage 
of lime-tree or bast mats over all others, 
in gardens, is, that they do not so 
easily rot from being exposed to moist- 
ure. 

A Fruit-Gatherer ( fig.77.) is described, 
which (it being somewhat different 
from those given in our Encyclopedia 
of Gardening) we shall here make 
known to our readers. It consists of 
two branches (a, 6). The branch a is 
the support of the instrument; it is 
furnished in its upper part with a cutting 
blade of steel (c), which is fixed there by 
three screws. Its lower part (d) is in 
the form of a socket, in order to receive 
a long wooden handle. The second 
branch (0) is fixed on that marked a, by 
means of a turning joint or hinge at e, 
which traverses a screw on which the 
branch 6 works. There isa steel spring 
(f) fixed on the branch a, by the screw 
g; the object of which is, to cause the 
branch 6 to shut on a. There is a 
copper stopper (/) to keep the branch 

open, when the instrument is about 
to be used ; it is fixed on the branch a, 
by a screw marked 2, on which it works. 
There is a small steel sprig (/) which 
presses the stopper against the lower 
end of the branch 6. In order to gather 
a fruit, its footstalk is introduced be- 
tween the branches (a, 4), by present- 
ing them open to it, as represented in 
the figure; the cord (2), which is fixed 
into the stopper (/), is then drawn down- 
wards, so as to liberate 6, which closes 
on a, while the blade (c) cuts the stalk 
of the. fruit, the latter being retained 
between the two branches, or nippers 


(4, 5), 


Lows Elements of Practical Agriculture. 44.7 


Art. III. Elements of Practical Agriculture; comprehending the Cultivation of 
Plants, the Husbandry of the Domestic Animals, and the Economy of the 
Farm. By David Low, Esq. F.R.S.E., Professor of Agriculture in the 
University of Edinburgh. S8vo, pp. 695. Edinburgh, 1834. 21s. 


Tue word agriculture is here taken in its strictest sense; and the work is, 

in consequence, confined to the subject of farming. It treats of, I. Soils; 
‘II. Manures; III. Implements of the Farm; IV. Simple Operations of 
Tillage; V. Preparation of Land for Crops; VI. Succession of Crops ; 
~ VII. Cultivation of Plants; VIII. Weeds of Agriculture; IX. Management 

of Grass Land; X. The Rearing and Feeding of Animals; and XI. The gene- 
ral Economy of the Farm. In the preface, the author informs us that the 
agriculture of a country is affected, in its general character, by climate, the fer- 
tility of the soil, and the food and habits of the people; and, consequently, 
that, to treat of agriculture as a practical art, the treatise must have reference 
to some given condition of climate and country. The following quotation 
will convey an accurate idea of the author’s opinion of the best mode of treat- 
ing his subject : — 

“ Aoriculture, like every art, is founded on principles ; anda natural method 
of studying it would seem to begin with principles, and from these to deduce 
the rules of practice. The nature of the subject, however, or rather the state 
of our knowledge, admits of this course being followed only to a limited 
extent; for the art founded on experience is often better understood than the 
principles ; and while the science is in some degree incomplete, the art has, in 
many things, been rendered very perfect by experience alone. Hence, it is 
well to lay the foundation of the study of agriculture on a knowledge of 
practice. In this case, the agriculturist, should he desire to extend the range 
of his observations to the relations of the science with the practical art, will 
do so with a more useful result and less hazard of error. In the following 
work, which is designed in an especial manner for those who are to engage in 
the study of agriculture for the first time, I propose to observe the plan of 
instruction to which I have referred. One condition of climate and country is 
assumed ; and there is explained, in so far as the limits of an elementary work 
will allow, a system of agriculture, which is conceived to be good, which is 
founded on experience, and which is capable of being reduced to practice. It 
does not, therefore, consist with the design of this work, to detail a number of 
practices, or examine a number of opinions ; many of which may be good, and 
yet not in accordance with the system to be explained. Farther, the attention 
of the reader is mainly directed to the essential parts of practice; and, while the 
connection of agriculture with other branches of knowledge is carefully pointed 
out, this is, in most cases, done rather to show the relation between them than 
to pursue the subject in detail. The application of science to agriculture affords 
the materials of interesting and useful study. Chemistry ascertains the nature 
and constitution of soils, the mode of action of manures, and the substances 
fitted for the nutrition of plants; botany and vegetable physiology treat of 
the structure, the properties, and the uses of plants; animal physiology and 
medical science relate to the form of animals, their properties, and diseases ; 
and mechanics are applied to the construction of machines and rural works. 
But there are branches of agriculture which may be separately studied: they 
are not essential, as experience shows, to the knowledge of agriculture as an 
economical art, and need be but partially treated of in an elementary work. 
Notwithstanding, however, this limitation in the design of the present treatise, 
it will appear that it is sufficiently extended for those who enter for the first 
time on the study of agriculture; and that even a rudimental knowledge of 
so many subjects as it embraces cannot be acquired without the labour of 
patient study.” (p. ix.) 

The reader will be prepared, by these remarks, to meet with a description 
of the most approved practices employed in the agriculture of the best dis- 
tricts in Scotland, unmixed with hypothetical speculations: and this is pre- 

112 


4.48 Works on Gardening, Agriculture, §c. 


cisely what the book is. The descriptions are perfectly clear and distinct ; 
and they are illustrated by upwards of 200 engravings on wood, chiefly of 
implements. No notice is taken of the new theory of the rotation of crops, 
or of the doctrine of humin, though so much has been written respecting both 
in the Quarterly Journal of Agriculture, of which, Professor Low informs us, in 
a note, he was for some time editor. Perhaps, indeed, we ought not to be 
surprised at this, after seeing the wild speculations to which these new theories 
have given rise. We cannot help thinking, however, that Decandolle’s theory 
ought to have been stated; because many observing cultivators might have 
been induced, by such a statement, to direct their attention more specifically 
to the subject of rotations. Other swing ploughs, we think, should have been 
noticed as well as Small’s; and we expected something on the subject of 
wheel ploughs, though, as far as we can observe, there is not a word respecting 
them in the book. Several pages are very properly given on the improve- 
ment of the breeds of animals; and, we think, there ought also to have been 
a section on the improvement of the breeds of plants. We admit, however, 
that this and similar other matters, which we could point out as in our opi- 
nion desirable in a work intended for students, formed no part of the author’s 
plan; and therefore, perhaps, all that we ought to say is, that, in these 
respects, the book is not precisely what we think it ought to have been, as 
coming from a teacher of agriculture. Taken as a practical director of Scotch 
farming, we consider it unexceptionable. 


Art. IV. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, Rural Archi- 
tecture, &c., lately published, with some Account of those considered the most 
interesting. 

; Briain. 


PamMPLIN, William, jun., Lavender Hill Nursery, Wandsworth Road, near 
London: A Catalogue of old Books on Botany and Gardening, offered for 
Sale at the moderate prices affixed. Part second. 8vo. 1834, 


The number of books enumerated in this catalogue is 276; a few of them 
are scarce, and some others are illustrated by portraits. The author collects 
and dries specimens of plants for sale; and has sent us some for our inspec- 
tion, very beautifully dried, and carefully displayed and attached. He also 
undertakes “ to supply portraits for illustrating botanical and horticultural 
biography, &c., and botanical figures, either engravings or original drawings.” 
We recommend him to amateurs. 


Murray, Hugh, F.R.S.E., &c., assisted by Wallace, Jameson, Hooker, and 
Swainson: An Encyclopedia of Geography; comprising a complete de- 
scription of the earth, physical, statistical, civil, and political, &c. Ilus- 
trated by 82 maps, and upwards of 1000 engravings on wood, representing 
the most remarkable objects of nature and art, in every region of the globe. 
8vo, pp. 1567. London.  3/. 


When it is considered how much the nature of the cultivation of every country 
depends on a knowledge of its geography; that is, of its climate, elevation above 
the sea, proximity to or distance from the sea, irregular or even character of the 
surface, soil, and indigenous vegetation, our gardening readers will not be sur- 
prised that we should recommend to them a work in which all these matters, and 
every other which the subject embraces, have been treated in a manner far supe- 
rior to that in which they could have been done, at any former period, in this or 
in any other country. It is quite enough for the gardener to know that the 
botany of every country is given by Dr. Hooker; and what relates to its soil 
and surface, geology, &c., by Professor Jameson. Among the woodcuts, 
most of the remarkable plants of every country will be found beautifully 
figured, as are also the remarkable animals; so that, even as a work of 
natural history, it possesses extraordinary claims to attention. Altogether, 


Literary Notices. 449 


we consider it as one of the most useful books, and also, as one of the 
cheapest, which has appeared in our time. Next to foreign travel, there are 
few things which tend more to liberalise the mind, than the study of geo- 
graphy, when combined with such historical and domestic notices as are given 
in this work. 

FRANCE. 


Tessier, M.: Annales de I Agriculture Francaise ; contenant des Observations 
et des Mémoires sur toutes les parties de l Agriculture et des Sciences 
accessoires. In monthly numbers. Nos. 81. and 82., vol. xili.; third 
series. 8vo. Paris, 1834. 


This work, of which we possess some of the earlier volumes, still continues 
to be a record of the transactions of the Central Agricultural Society of 
France. The most interesting article in No. 81. is on the culture of the co- 
chineal insect, and that in No. 82. on the culture of cotton; both articles 
being doubtless prepared with a view to the agriculture of Algiers. We ob- 
serve that this Society has done us the honour to insert our name in the list 
of associates; and also that Oscar Le Clerc’s translation of our Encyc. of 
Agr. is nearly completed, in 4 vols. 8vo, with 2000 woodcuts. 


De Moléon, J. G. V., of the Polytechnic School, Civil Engineer, Chevalier of 
the Legion d’Honneur, &c.: Recueil de la Société Polytechnique, ren- 
fermant, 1°, Le Recueil Industriel, Manufacturier, Commercial, de la Sa- 
lubrité publique, et des Beaux Arts; 2°, L’Agronome Manufacturier ; 
3°, Les Annales de la Société Polytechnique; 4°, Les Annales des Statis- 
tiques et les Actes de Administration propres a encourager les diverses 
Branches de ? Economie publique, &c. Paris. 2d series, commencing 
January, 1834. 


BELGIUM. 


Lejeune, A. L. S.. M.D., &c.; ef Courtois, R., M.D., Horti Botanici Acade- 
mize Leodiensis Directioni adjunctus ; conjunctis studiis ediderunt : Com- 
pendium Floree Belgicee. Tomus 1. 1828; tom. ii. 1831. 8vo. Liege. 


These volumes include brief technical descriptions, in the Latin language, 
of those of the wild plants of Belgium which are referable to the first fifteen 
classes of the system of Linnzus, herein followed. A third volume, designed 
to contain descriptions of the remainder of the Belgic phanerogamic plants, is 
under preparation. The two volumes before us are very carefully elaborated ; 
and must much avail the botanical students in Belgium. They are also 
capable of interesting the students of the native plants of neighbouring coun- 
tries, as teaching the species peculiar to each country respectively. We ob- 
serve that not a few species are described, which inhabit Belgium, that do 
not oceur in Britain. 


Art. V. Literary Notices. 


A TREATISE on Fruit Trees: by an old Pomologist, a contemporary of 
Miller, Aiton sen., Forsyth, Hill, Abercrombie, &c., and whose experience 
has been gained in the gardens of royalty, and in those of the nobility and 
gentry, in different parts of the kingdom. The author has also been, for 
many years, a nurseryman; in which business the propagation and culture of 
fruit trees have been his principal employment; and he has particularly de- 
voted his attention to ascertaining the names and merits of each variety of 
fruit, with the best modes of culture. 

Report of the Doncaster Agricultural Society, on the Turnip Fly, founded 
on the returns received from upwards of a hundred gentlemen, cultivating 
turnips on every variety of soil in the county. 

_ The Agricultural Magazine is about to be published at Dundee, in monthly 
numbers, at 6d. each. 
113 


450 General. Notices. 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


ART. 1. General Notices. 


THE fecal Excretions of Plants. — The committee of botany of the British 
Association for the Advancement of Science have requested Professor Daubeny 
of Oxford, “ to institute an extended enquiry into the exact nature of the 
secretions by the roots of the principal cultivated plants and weeds of agricul- 
ture; and that the attention of botanists and chemists be invited to the degree 
in which such secretions are poisonous to the plants that yield them, or te 
others; and to the most ready method of decomposing these secretions by 
manures, or other means.” Dr. Lindley has also proposed the same thing as 
a desideratum. 

The Cause of Malaria, in the pestilential districts of Italy, has generally 
been supposed to be the decomposition of vegetable matter on a moist surface. 
This, however, is to confound the malaria with the marsh fever. The former 
is now thought to proceed from a very different cause, and to be analogous to 
what in England is called the hay fever. It is found that, while the corn or 
hay crop is in a growing state in the pestilential districts, they are as healthy 
as any part of Italy; but that, the moment the crop is cut down, or withers 
on the ground, the malaria commences, and continues through the autumn 
and winter, till vegetation becomes vigorous in the following spring. The 
neighbourhood of Rome, where malaria is so prevalent, “ is very hilly, dry, 
and entirely without vegetation. For days together, one sees nothing but 
desolate dried up corn fields, without trees, bushes, or wood of any description. 
In early times, Rome was surrounded by extensive sacred woods, which were 
not suffered to be destroyed. At that period malaria was unknown, though 
intermitting fevers were well known in the Pontine Marshes. The avarice of 
the popes, however, converted these sacred woods into gold, and so desolated 
the region that not a tree or wood is to be met with around Rome. With 
the commencement of this system of extirpation the malaria appeared, and 
has at length reached such a height, that, yearly, many are carried gradually 
off by it; and, in the summer months, strangers and respectable inhabitants 
quit Rome. When we take into consideration all the phenomena of marshy 
districts, the conclusion does not lie far distant, that the atmosphere is in 
different degrees rendered unfit for human organisation, not by the passage of 
the water to the air, but by the decomposition and solution of vegetable sub- 
stances; and that thus those various intermitting fevers, and even the plague 
itself, are produced. In the case of real malaria, in opposition to marsh fevers, 
the circumstances are different. So long as the earth is covered with living 
vegetables, as, for example, with corn, the air of the most suspected district 
is pure and healthy, and no one fears being attacked by the disease; but, when 
the prodigious crops, which in those volcanic loose-soiled districts are speedily 
brought to maturity, are removed, does the surface of the earth become dead 
at the warmest and most energetic period of its functions ? or does not rather 
a portion of those substances, which were consumed by the leaves and roots of 
plants, now go to the atmosphere, and render it unfavourable for the breathing 
of man, until all is again restored to an equilibrium in higher or more distant 
regions ? That carbonaceous matter is beneficial to the vegetable kingdom, is 
as well known as that it is prejudicial to the breathing process in animals. No 
educated person in Germany doubts the organic function of the earth, to 
which also the cholera itself has been ascribed; and when a more general 
regard to nature advances to the south, the sacred woods will again gradually 
surround Rome, large vine branches entwine themselves round the elms, the 
hills be thus again covered, and the malaria reduced within limits. The fact 
is not without interest, that all real malaria districts are of volcanic formation, 
and that they are often to be found at the boundary of volcanic and non- 


Domestic Notices : — England. 451 


volcanic rocks.” (Jameson’s Journ., vol. xvii. p. 167.) In several districts in 
England, the country people are liable to attacks of fever immediately after 
the removal of the hay crop, some individuals much more so than others. 
This may be considered as a species of malaria of a comparatively mild 
description. 

A Mode of packing Fruit Trees for Exportation is given m VI. 311. I 
received last month a package of fruit trees from Boston, North America, from 
Mr. W. Kenrick; whose New American Orchardist is reviewed in IX. 354. 
I send a description of Mr. Kenrick’s mode of packing, which I think an 
approvable one, for publication. He lays the roots in wet moss, and this is 
secured by means of bast mats, not only about the roots, but clear from the 
stems. A strong stake is placed in the centre of the bundle of trees, and 
these are well packed in straw, and bast mats, not put into abox. It appears 
to me that this mode is preferable to packing the trees in a box; for, when the 
roots are packed in wet moss, and the branches are laid bare in the box, a 
considerable degree of damp arises from the moss, and stagnates upon the 
branches, to the destruction of some of the trees, as when the trees are 
unpacked and exposed to the air, the branches of some of them turn black 
and purple in several places, and the trees soon die. On the contrary, when 
the trees are not packed in a box, the dampness from the wet moss is allowed 
to escape, and the branches are not injured by the stagnation of it upon them. 
The trees I have received from Mr. Kenrick were not at all affected in their 
branches, but were perfectly free from all disease, and the branches of the 
pear trees had sent out young shoots among the straw. The following are 
‘the names of the kinds of fruit trees which I have received from Mr. Kenrick : 
all of them are described in his New American Orchardist. 

Apples: American summer pearmain, Benone, St. Lawrence, Maiden blush, 
Summer queen, Summer rose, William’s apple, Aunt’s apple, Kenrick’s red 
autumn, Killam Hill, Newark king, Hubbundston’s Nons, Marquise, Peck’s 
pleasant, Penock red winter, Priestley, Royal pearmain. 

Pears: Julienne, Dix, Gore’s, Heathcot Lodge, Wilkinson, Lewis, Thomson, 
Cushon.— WM. Saul. Sulyard Street, Lancaster, June 7. 1834. 

Messrs. Audibert’s Mode of packing Plants to be sent to great Distances. —'The 
boxes in which the plants are to be placed are first led with double oiled 
paper, to prevent the access of air and the escape of moisture. Moss, after 
being slightly watered, is then stuffed in about the plants, and the lid is put 
on in such a manner as to be air-tight. Messrs. Audibert are of opinion that 
plants in a dormant state, such as vines, may be sent in this state to any 
distance in temperate climates; and even to the tropics, provided a mixture 
of soil or sand were put in along with the plants, for the shoots to run in, 
that would be produced by the tropical temperature. (Busby’s Vineyards of 
Spain and France ; an interesting work, which we shall review in our next No.) 
By this mode of packing, or that suggested by our correspondent, Mr. Ward, 
p. 207., it appears to us that there will henceforth be no insurmountable 
difficulty in sending out to, or bringing home from, Australia, India, or China, 
any description of plant whatever, whether in a growing or dormant state. 
Glass cases may be rendered perfectly air-tight, and yet admit of the contrac- 
tion and expansion of the air, by having a small reservoir of water for the 
expanded air to act upon. — Cond. 


Art. Il. Domestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


THE Devon and Exeter Floricultural Society has introduced a new subject 
of competition into the flower shows, by offering a prize for the best specimen 
of fiower-painting done by a lady. — J. W. L. f 

The Grounds at High Clere have been he great beauty, notwithstanding the 

II 


452 Domestic Notices : — England. 


calamities of the spring. The very mild weather in January, February, and 
March, brought forward the whole mass of the Rhododéndron 4lta-clerénse 
hybrids; when, just as they were covered with turgid umbels ready to expand, 
came the frost in April, and destroyed hundreds ef the buds. It was quite a 
floricultural calamity. Even the more tardy umbels were injured, many of 
the florets in each being spoiled. Then we had a great fright; for in many of 
the specimens the bark split and came off, disclosing the naked stem: these, 
the gardener swathed in haybands, expecting them to die to the ground, but 
they have quite recovered; the bark is regenerated, and the plants are growing 
surprisingly. Next year the show will be immense, and such a concatenation 
of premature warmth and frost can hardly happen a second time soon. The 
azaleas were very superb, and some of the latest are even now in flower, 
perfuming the air with their fragrance. — R. High Clere Park. June 27. 1834. 

Syon House Gardens. — Mr. Thompson, late of the Grange, who succeeded 
Mr. Forrest in the management of these gardens, has in his turn been suc- 
ceeded by Mr. Carton, late of High Clere. Wehear that the same system of 
rigid exclusion, even of gardeners, is still to be maintained. 

The numerous fine Vlices at Mamhead, near Exeter, appear, from some letters 
found a short time ago in taking down the old house there, to have been 
planted in 1718; in which year, as I was informed, the safe arrival of them 
from Smyrna or Aleppo is mentioned. — W. C. Trevelyan. Atheneum, Pall 
Mall, July 9, 1834. 

The new Evergreen Lucombe’s Oak, mentioned by Mr. Rutger (p. 185.), is 
known here, and in some other nurseries, as the Narrow-leaved Lucombe, or 
Fulham, oak. It is a beautiful variety, retaining its dark-green foliage, in mild 
winters, till April or May. — 7. Rivers, jun. Sawbridgeworth, May 23. 1834. 

Of the Red-corollaed Nelimbium speciosum, of A.bies spectabilis Lam. (Pinus 
Webbiana Wall.), and of the Cedrus Deodara, we have received seeds from Dr. 
Wallich, since we noticed, in p. 278., the receipt of other seeds from him. In 
this instance, some of the seeds of the Cédrus Deodara were sent in a portion 
of a cone, and some in a vial: neither these nor those look very promising, 
but those in the cone leok most so. Scarcely a seed is without one or more 
blisters of oil beneath the integument, as in those described in p. 278. All 
the seeds of A‘bies spectabilis seem dead, and are so dry that their embryo is a 
mere shriveled thread. The seeds of the Nelimbium are noted for very 
long retention of life, and we have imparted Dr. Wallich’s plentiful supply of 
these to various heads of botanic gardens, and to nurserymen, and added to 
them portions of the seeds of the A‘bies and Cédrus, that those who are hopeful 
of their growing may have an opportunity to do their best with them. Upon 
the cover of our Number LII., we have, through inadvertence, announced the 

seeds of the Nelumbium, as additional ones of the white-corollaed variety, but 
we found them, on opening the package, to be seeds of the red. The date 
upon the labels to the seeds is October, 1833: we received the seeds on June 
27. 1834. — J. D. 

A Species of Tacsonia has been in flower nearly the whole of the winter on 
a west wall in the open garden at Englefield House, near Reading. Mr. 
Greenshields has promised us an account of it, and in the meantime plants 
may be obtained at Mr. M‘Arthur’s nursery, Connaught Square, Edgeware 
Road. 

A Selection of Heartseases, painted by Mrs. Withers, has lately been exhibited 
at the Horticultural Society’s rooms, and also shown to us at Bayswater, 
The varieties are beautiful, and they are most exquisitely painted. An emi- 
nent artist happened to call while they were before us, who declared that he 
had never seen any work of the kind so beautifully executed. There can be no 
question of the high talents and great industry of Mrs. Withers. The artist 
we alluded to has the same objection as ourselves to the mode of mixing 
the different varieties together, adopted by Mrs. Withers, in common with the 
growers of florists’ flowers, instead of arranging them according to their affini- 
ties. Mrs. Withers states that the flowers were placed in the order she drew 


Domestic Notices :— England. 453 


them, by her employer; but this lady, and all other artists, should endeavour 
to correct the taste of their employers, in matters connected with their profes- 
sion. We wish our able correspondent, Calycanthus (who we have no doubt 
is an artist), would take up this subject, and would enlarge on it from time to 
time. — Cond. 

Cultivated Kinds of Rose budded in Hedgerows upon wild Kinds there growing. 
—I, last summer, budded the wild roses growing in my hedgerows with buds of 
some cultivated kinds; the flowers from these are now coming into blossom ; 
their hues and odours must increase the interest of the hedgerows. A men- 
tion of this matter may induce others to increase the interest of their hedge- 
rows in like manner. — M/. Saul. June 7. 1834. 

A Plant of Heracléum giganttéum, grown in Lavender Hill Nursery in 1832, 
measured as follows: —Extent of the two lower leaves from point to point, 
12 ft.; height of the plant, 10 ft. 3in.; circumference of the stem at 2 ft. from 
the ground, 1 ft.; diameter of the main umbel, 2 ft.; diameter of a partial 
umbel of ditto, 3in. These dimensions were taken by — William Hurst. 
Wandsworth Road, July 10. 1832. 

A Verbascum in the garden of Mr. Wilson of Greenhithe (see p.283.), 
and nursed by Miss Wilson, had attained, July 27., a height of upwards of 
12 ft., and was still growing. 

The Number of Plants observed in Blossom last Winter at Holnicote, in Somer- 
setshire, the seat of Sir Thomas Acland, were on Dee. 23. 1833, 236; and 
on Feb. 3. 1834, 181, as appears from the lists of them sent by him to the 
Devon and Exeter Horticultural Society. —W. C. Trevelyan. Atheneum, 
Pall Mall, July 9. 1834: 

Bignonia ophthalmica.— Having received a supply of seed of the Bignonia 
ophthalmica, or eye vine, known to the Hispano-American inhabitants of 
Carthagena by the name of Bejuco de Ojo, which is so justly celebrated for 
its efficacy in the cure of ophthalmia and other inflammatory affections of 
the eyes, I send some to you for distribution among those who are most 
likely to succeed in making it vegetate. This will, perhaps, be facilitated by 
previous maceration either in plain soft water kept at a moderate temperature 
for about forty-eight hours, or in water acidulated with either chlorine, or a 
saturated solution of oxalic acid, in the proportion of sixteen drops to the 
pint, or one drop to the ounce by measure, of water. In this proportion, I 
have found the oxalic acid, as recommended by M. Otto of Berlin, effectual 
in rousing the dormant powers of vegetation, and quickening the develope- 
ment of the infant plant. But when oxalic acid has been used, I think it will 
be advisable, in general, to wash the seed, before planting, in water either pure, 
or containing a smal! quantity of lime, potass, or some other substance 
capable of forming a neutral salt with any adhering acid, so as to prevent any 
injurious action it might exert upon the embryo springing into life. It will also 
be necessary to guard against the depredations of slugs and other vermin, 
which devour the young and tender plants of the eye vine with avidity. — 
Wm. Hamilton. Plymouth, May 20. 183+. 

[We have sent the whole of the seeds to Messrs. Low and Co. of the 
Clapton Nursery. — Cond.] 

O'xalis crenata. — Should you have received any account cf the late exhi- 
bition at Falmouth, on the 28th of last month, you will have learned that one 
of the greatest difficulties attending the cultivation of the O’xalis crenata has 
been surmounted; Mr. Pringle, the intelligent and enterprising gardener of 
L. C. Daubuz, Esq., of Truro, having upon that occasion produced a dish of 
the tubers of this plant, the growth of the present year, which were much ad- 
mired both for their size and beauty. Mr. Pringle will, I trust, communicate 
the process by which he has succeeded in obtaining this desirable result, 
through the medium of your valuable Magazine, to the public for general in- 
formation. You will also have learned from that report (inserted in the 
West Briton of the 30th of May) that Sir Charles Lemon, with that zeal for 
science, and that desire to promote the interests of society, for which he has 


454 Domestic Notices : — England. 


ever been so honourably distinguished, has this year attempted the field cul- 
ture of these tubers upon a large scale: the result of so important an experi- 
ment will not, I trust, be kept from the public, even should its success fall 
short of our most reasonable expectations. — Wm. Hamilton. 15. Oxford 
Place, Plymouth, June 13. 1834. 

The Victoria Wheat. — It may be interesting to many of our readers to learn 
that, in several instances, both in this neighbourhood and that of Bristol, the 
Victoria wheat, received from Sir Robert Ker Porter, has been in ear for 
some weeks, and promises to be ripe before the wheats in ordinary cultivation 
show their blossom. <A letter from my friend, W. P. Taunton, Esq., of Stoke 
Bishop, near Bristol, of the date of the 25th of April, says: —“ Your six grains 
of Victoria wheat have produced six healthy plants, which have spindled, and 
are swelling in the upper part of the stem, indicating the existence of an 
embryo ear; but they have not, either of them, thrown out a single sucker, 
so that I have had no means of dividing and multiplymg them, and look only 
to the produce of seed for their increase.” Mr. Richard Barret, an genious 
and industrious horticulturist, residing at Portland Place, Morier Town, to 
whom I gave three grains last year, succeeded in raising as many plants, two 
of which were unfortunately destroyed by cats; but the survivor, a fine healthy 
plant about 4 ft. high, has been in ear since the latter part of April, and has 
been in blossom for the last fortnight: the ear is as large and full as that of 
other wheats. At Newbury, Sir Edward Thornton, I understand, has several 
plants raised from seed which I gave him, in ear. 

On the 24th of August last, the day after I first received the seed from 
Caraccas, I sowed a few (I think three) grains in pots. The whole of these 
grew, and one plant, in particular, flourished vigorously, tillering out and 
attaining a height of above 3 ft. During the winter, however, either from my 
mismanagement, or from a want of space to expand its roots in the pot, it 
suddenly became sickly, and died. Another plant, which I removed in the 
latter part of the year to my garden, was destroyed by a man who was 
employed to put the garden in order, and to whom I forgot to give a caution 
respecting this plant. Thus my stock was reduced to one starved plant which 
continued alive, but made little progress during the winter, if winter it could 
be called, in which we had but two, or at the most three, nights’ frost, and no 
snow even for ten minutes’ duration. At length, on the 26th of February, I 
turned this plant out to take its chance, conceiving the period of greatest 
danger past. The weather, however, during part of March, and nearly the 
whole of April, was colder; we had more nights of frost, and of greater 
intensity, than during the period which preceded its being planted out. Yet 
from that period it began to grow, and, although a dwarf plant growing ina 
wretched soil, it flourished beyond my expectation. Hearing of Mr.-Barrett’s 
plant being in ear, I was induced to call and see it on the 29th of April; and, 
on the following day I examined my own plant, the ear of which, to my no 
small surprise, I found protruding above the vagina; and on the 16th inst. I 
observed it in flower. I have two other plants sown in pots, after twenty-four 
hours’ maceration in soft water, on the 2d of March, at the same time with 
two others which had been macerated for an equal length of time in a saturated 
solution of oxalic acid. The latter never sprouted. I omitted to register 
the date of the first appearance of the others; but on the Ist of April I trans- 
ferred them both to the open ground, where they are flourishing vigorously, 
and show symptoms of coming soon into ear. One of them has three fine 
suckers. Since I began this letter, I have been informed that some Victoria 
wheat, which I gave to Mr. John Jarman here, and which he sowed on the 
1st of February last, is now (May 20.) in the ear, and has been so for some 
weeks. — Id. 

Yucca Starch.— Mr. Watts has sent me a sample of yucca starch, which, 
he says, a friend assured him was equal to carpenters’ glue; and which can 
be purchased at Carthagena for 14d. the Spanish pound: he also sent me some 
manteca de corozo, or palm oil, which is used for lamps, and which may be 


Domestic Notices :—Scotiand. 455 


had at Carthagena for 8s. per gallon, or 50 dollars per tun, of 252 gallons; 
while seal oil sells here for from 110 to 120 dollars per tun, or above 100 per 
cent dearer. Mr. Watts wishes for information as to how far these might be 
productive objects of commerce. Every addition to our imports from South 
America not only first, to civilise the inhabitants, and put an end to those 
distractions, which every friend of humanity must deplore; but to promote 
industry and sobriety of habits among the inhabitants; to give employment 
to a large quantity of British shipping, and a greater number of sailors; to 
improve the receipts of our customs; and provide an abundant market for our 
manufactures, upon which the doors of the European market are gradually, 
but with too fatal a certainty, closing, and which the insane and suicidal 
proceedings of the Trades’ Unions are so blindly assisting our rivals in trade 
and manufactures to close. Hence, it has long been my wish and endeavour 
to divert the tide of British industry, and domestic as well as colonial enter- 
prise, into new channels which cannot be so readily closed ; and in which we 
have little to apprehend from successful rivalry. This has been the incessant 
aim of my foreign correspondence for the last ten years, and in this object 
I have been ably and generously seconded, both by Mr. George Watts, and 
his ill-used father. If our success has not been proportionate to our wishes, 
the fault does not wholly rest with us. — Jd. 

Fifty Barrels of ground Dwidwi are expected in England, from Carthagena, 
in the course of July; and Dr. Hamilton, at Plymouth, has instructions to 
dispose of them to the tanners. ‘The intrinsic value of the dividivi is nearly 
half as much again as that of the best Aleppo galls. 

A large and handsome Cucumber was brought to us on Aug. 2. by Mr. Cuthill, 
gardener to L. Sullivan, Esq., of Broom House, Fulham. It was grown on 
what is called Wheedon’s plan, with this difference, that it was planted in the 
pit of the house amongst old tan. A single stem was trained up an iron rod 
7 ft. in length, to the roof trellis. When it reached the trellis, it was stopped, 
to cause it to branch out; and by degrees, as the shoots spread over the 
trellis, all the leaves were taken off the stem from bottom to top, leaving it 
quite bare. In this state the stem measured 13 in. in circumference at the 
distance of 7 ft. from the roots. The leaves on the branches were generally 
about 19in. by 15in.; and the cucumbers produced from 15in. to 20 in. 
long; the latter being the length of that sent to us. It is straight, and varies 
little in thickness from one end to the other, averaging 62 in. in circumference. 
It weighs 1 lb. 124 02. 


SCOTLAND. 


Mr. Charles H. J. Smith, the son of our valued correspondent Mr. Smith, 
of Hopetoun House Gardens, has, we observe, commenced business as 
“¢ Landscape-Gardener and Planner” in Edinburgh, and we sincerely wish 
him success. If he will exercise his talents in composing some designs and 
essays for this Magazine, and for our forthcoming Encyclopedia of Land- 
scape-Gardening, it will fit him for rendering a reason to his employers for 
what he may recommend. In these thinking and reasoning days, the taste of 
no artist will be taken, as it used to be, on credit. When the late Duke of 
Northumberland asked the celebrated Brown on what principle he distributed 
single trees, his answer was, “ I stick them in here and there as the maggot 
bites ;” but no answer of this kind will do now-a-days. 

The floricultural impostor noticed, p. 56., and in the preceding volume, 
appears to have been at work in the north-east of Scotland. In the E/gin 
Courier of May 16. and 23. are the following paragraphs : — 

Floricultural Impostor.— We last week cautioned our readers against being 
imposed upon by a fellow offering to sell flower roots, and callmg himself 
Mr. Green, from the new Vauxhall and Bowling-green Gardens, Aberdeen, 
It was well we did so, as we have since learned that he called on several 
proprietors of extensive gardens in the west country, but they were on their 
guard against being imposed on by him. We shall now give some details of his 


456 Domestic Notices :—Scotland. 


adventures in Elgin, as, by so doing, the public will be better able to detect him 

when he attempts to impose upon them. Mr. Green, alias Gern, alias Archer, 

&c., arrived in Elgin on Saturday the 8th of May, and called the same evening 

on Mr. Forbes, stating that he had taken Mr. Walker’s nursery in Aberdeen, 

and that, as he wished to get himself introduced in the north, he would dispose 

of some fine georgina roots at Is. 6d. each, although they were worth from 

7s. to 2/. 2s. each. Although Mr. Green’s knowledge of gardeners, and gardening 

in general, was such as to make it appear probable that he was what he 

professed himself to be, yet there was something about his manner which 

made Mr. Forbes resolve that he would not pay for any roots he might 

purchase until he saw them in flower. Mr. Green acquiesced in this, and 

said that he would let him have a dozen of roots on his paying the one half 
of the value now, and the other half when he came round again. On the 

following Monday, before Mr. Forbes had obtained the roots, the idea struck 

him that the person whom he had seen on Saturday was no other than the 

identical impostor alluded to in the Gardener's Magazine, p. 57. and 58.; and, 

as we had the loan of that work from him, he called for the purpose of 
examining it. We had previously seen Mr. Green, and it occurred to us at 

once that he was the very individual referred to; accordingly, we both pre- 

pared to ascertain if our ideas were correct. Mr. Green called soon after, 

when we immediately taxed him with being the impostor referred to, and, 
taking up the Magazine, we read the paragraphs referring to himself; but he 

strongly denied that he was the person, and threatened to prosecute us for 

saying so, although he allowed that he knew the individual mentioned, as he 

had seen him often. However, we still continued, notwithstanding his 

repeated assertions to the contrary, to be of opinion that we were right, and, 

as he found that he could not make us believe otherwise, he soon left us. In 

the course of the day, Mr. Green met with some of the journeymen gardeners, 

and by their assistance obtained a knowledge of persons who were fond of 
flowers ; but he only succeeded in disposing of three of his georgina roots 

at Is. 6d. each. In the evening he met several of the gardeners at the inn 

where he put up, and treated them to plenty of liquor, making engagements 

with them to work for him in Aberdeen. After staying four days at the inn, 

he left without paying one farthing, and nearly succeeded in obtaining a horse 

and gig along with him. (E/gin Courier, May 16.) 

Mr. Green again.—We have received a letter, signed Thomas Green, bearing 
the Ballindalloch postmark, and dated the 17th of May, requesting that we 
would furnish him with the name of the author of the paragraph in our paper 
of the 9th inst., cautioning the public against being imposed upon by a fellow 
named Green, who pretended to have some very fine georginas to dispose 
of. If Mr. Green will take the trouble to visit Elgin again, we will not only 
furnish him with the information he requires, but also with farther inform- 
ation about a Mr. Green, the son of a bagpiper, and whose mother resides 
in one of our neighbouring glens, once celebrated for making fine whisky. 
Perhaps Mr. Thomas Green will allow that he has some knowledge of the 
Mr. Green we have referred to, as he did that he knew the impostor alluded 
to in the Gardener’s Magazine ; but, if he is ignorant on the subject, we can 
furnish him with his genealogy, and can mention many traits in his character 
not much to his credit. We can also furnish Mr. Thomas Green with some 
information respecting a Mr. Green, who wrote to a Mr. Paul three times, 
requesting that he would acknowledge that the said Mr. Green was left 
a valuable gold watch as a legacy by a near relation. But surely none 
of these stories can refer to Mr. Thomas Green of the Bowling-green and 
Vauxhall Gardens, with the 400 subscribers at one guinea each, which he 
has established in Aberdeen; a gentleman who has bills and property, as 
he says, to the extent of 51,000/. sterling, and who left a situation as curator 
to a botanic garden, where he had 2/. a day, that he might engage with Sir 
Michael Bruce for 36 acres of ground in the vicinity of Aberdeen, although 
he had not finally taken it, as Sir Michael Bruce would not agree to the 


Domestic Notices : —Scotland. 457 


removal of some nuisances. We think, were Sir Michael Bruce, or some of 
the other gentlemen whose names have been used to forward the views of 
Mr. Green, to take some steps to remove him from this country, they would 
be rendering a great benefit to society at large. (/gin Courier, May 23.) 

Botanical Garden at Elgin—We have much pleasure in stating that Mr. 
Forbes has been busy this week in commencing operations for the formation 
of a Botanical Garden. In the present advanced state of improvement 
throughout Scotland, we have been surprised that Elgin did not possess 
something of the kind long before this time; but good things can never 
come too late, and we should be happy to see, not only a good botanical 
garden established here, but a society formed fer giving prizes for the best 
flowers, fruits, and other gifts of nature, improved by the culture of man. 
Such a society, we believe, formerly existed here, but from some cause 
was given up. Since that time, however, a great difference appears to have 
taken place in the taste for flowers; and situations where we used to see no 
brighter flowers than kale rising to seed, are now decked with many of Flora’s 
most beautiful ornaments. Let us, therefore, endeavour to form a new society 
for the farther encouragement of a taste for beautiful flowers, and we shall do 
more for the happiness of our fellow-creatures than all the temperance socie- 
ties which have ever existed, by inducing the labourer and artisan to employ 
their leisure hours in improving their little spots of ground, instead of idling 
away their time. We might improve upon the plan of the former society, by 
having exhibitions quarterly in some pleasant spot near the town, instead of 
in the Assembly Rooms as formerly; and, if no better place can be found, we 
shall a happy to afford our own garden for that purpose. (Jdid., May 23. 
1834. 

Plants of the Forest Trees indigenous to Van Diemen’s Land have been raised 
from seeds by Dr. Rolland of Montrose; and it is stated in the Scotsman 
newspaper of July 16., that Dr. Graham of Edinburgh thinks that one of 
- them is likely to prove of so hardy a description, as to attain a considerable 
size in the open air in the climate of Edinburgh. It is stated to be a very 
beautiful plant, probably a eucalyptus. | Dr. Rolland is said to be well 
acquainted with the flora of Van Diemen’s Land, and to have a very interest- 
ing collection in his garden at Montrose. Should he see this, we shall be 
very much obliged to him for some account of his garden, and particularly for 
the name of the species which is thought (according to the Report of the 
Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland, as given in the above paper) 
likely to endure the open air in Scotland. 

The Wheat Grains from Caraccas, kindly sent by you last season, of the 
earliness of which so much was written in the newspapers, I sowed part of, 
at the same time with my field wheat, near the end of October. It stood the 
winter well, and came into ear on the 30th of May, just thirteen days earlier 
than common wheat in the same field. Although I never entertained extra- 
vagant notions as to having in this northern climate anything like two crops 
in a season, yet, if it ripens, as I trust it may, a fortnight earlier than the or- 
dinary varieties, it may be of immense importance in the agriculture of this 
part of the kingdom, which is near the northern limits of growing wheat, if 
not nearly on a level with high-water tides. At this place, the highest eleva- 
tion at which wheat can be cultivated with success, is 400 ft. above the level 
of the sea. It so happens that a farm on this estate, which I occupy, extends 
in height from 300 to nearly 800 ft., so that I have an excellent opportunity 
of proving whether the new wheat may extend the limits hitherto fixed for 
the culture of that important grain. One good thing I remark is, that it does 
not seem so liable to rust as many other varieties of that grain are on their 
first introduction. I will hereafter communicate to you its time of ripen- 
ing, quality, and appearance of fertility ; and, in short, will pay to it all the 
attention it may deserve. — A. Gorvie. 


458 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


Art. III. Floricultural and Botanical Notices of new Plants, and of 
old Plants of Interest, supplementary to the latest Editions of the 
“* Encyclopedia of Plants,” and of the ‘‘ Hortus Britannicus.” 


Curtis’s Botanical Magazine ; each monthly number containing eight plates; 
3s. 6d. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Hooker, King’s Professor of 
Botany in the University of Glasgow. 

Edwards’s Botanical Register ; each monthly number containing eight plates ; 
4s. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Lindley, F.R.S., Professor of Botany 
in the London University. 

Sweet's British Flower-Garden ; each monthly number containing four plates ; 
3s. coloured, 2s. 3d. plain. Edited by David Don, Esq., Librarian to the 
Linnean Society. 


PoLyPEeTALous DicoTyLeDoNOoUS PLANTS. 


XLV. Grossuldcee. 


a 
Bir Rees + andl white-flud. 2 or 4mr.ap W _ N.W. America 1827? C co Bot. reg. 1692 

“ Brought to the Horticultural Society, by Mr. Douglas, from North-west America:” the time 

when is not stated. 

R. niveum is of the appearance and height of the common European species 
of gooseberry, and it has some similarity to the #. triflorum, an American 
species; but it is quite distinct from both. The berry of R. niveum is of 
“ about the size of that of the black currant [2#. nigrum], and of the same deep 
rich purple colour. It has altogether the appearance of a small smooth 
gooseberry ; but its flavour is very different: it is entirely destitute of the 
flatness which is more or less perceptible in even the best gooseberries; in 
lieu of which, it has a rich subacid, vinous, rather perfumed flavour, which is 
extremely agreeable. The fruit is rather too acid to be eaten raw; but, when 
ripe, it makes delicious tarts, and would probably form an excellent means of 
improving the common gooseberry by hybridising.’ (Bot. Reg., August.) 
R. niveum, apart from these considerations, is an addition to the number of 
the hardy species of shrubs. Its flowers, white, pendulous, and small, are 
borne in pairs and threes from the centre of the clusters (each of two or 
three) of leaves. 

LXXIII. Rosdcee. A variety of rose, named the village maid, is figured 
in The Floricultural Cabinet for August, which has a flower of a middle size, 
full of petals, and these striped with longitudinal lines of a colour distinct 
from that of the ground; what the colours are is not stated: one can hardly 
believe them to be white and lavender, as depicted in the figure. “ It is totally 
different from the York and Lancaster” (2. damascéna var.), and also from 
the rosa mundi (R. gallica var. versicolor). Mr. William Rogers of the 
Southampton Nursery possesses it, who has remarked that he purchased it 
from the collection of a French florist, under the name of village maid, 
and that “ the magnificent appearance of the large full-headed plant, worked 
on a standard, has drawn forth the admiration of all who haye seen it.” 


LXXVII. Leguminise. 


1262. PULTEN ‘A. 
410583 fléxilis Sm. flexile-cwigged w \_] or 13 ap.jn Y Port Jackson 1801. Cs..p Bot. reg. 1694 
Dillwynia feucrédides Sieber. The Pultenz‘a fléxilis of Sweet’s Flora Australasica, t. 35., has 
glaucous leaves and hairy calyxes ; and is aplant entirely different from the P. fléxilis Sz., which 
is closely allied to P. polygalefodlia Rudge : but the calyx of that species is interspersed with 
villous hairs, its leaves are smaller, and it is altogether a more abundant-flowering plant. 
P. euchila Dec. has also smaller cuneated leaves, and a remarkable ample calyx ; like, as Decan4 
dolle observes, Euchilus &. Br.: and, to my view, especially like that of some Gompholdbia. 
(A. Cunningham, in Bot. Reg., August.) 


P. fléxilis Sm. is a small shrub with twiggy branches, which are garnished, 
in their upper part, with small shining leaves, and with yellow small flowers, 
one from the axil of each of most of the upper leaves. 


_ Acacia hastulata Sy. is figured in the Bot. Mag. for August, t. 3341. ‘The blossoms are delight- 
fully fragrant, smelling like [those of ] hawthorn.” ‘The figure of this seems to resemble, even 
to identity, the 4, cordata of some living collections; as, for one, that of Mr. Knight. (See p. 281.) 


. 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. A59 


CXVI. Rutdcee. 


3303. COLEONEM A. (Koleos, a sheath, néma, a filament; from the groove in the claw of the 
petal, in which the sterile filament is, in some species, partly lodged. — Hooker.) Sp. 4. ?— 

pilchrum Hook, beautiful # |_| or 6 apmy Ro C.G.Hope? ... Cp.l Bot. mag. 3340 

Has long been cultivated, in the green-house of the botanic garden of Glasgow, under the name of 

Didésma angustifolia: a name only of the gardens, and implying a character common to others 
of the genus. The plant comes unquestionably within the genus Coleontma. — Hooker. 

C. ptlchrum “ deserves a place in every collection, from its graceful mode 
of growth, and bright and conspicuous rose-coloured blossoms, which continue 
long in perfection. Our plant forms an upright shrub, 4 ft. to 6ft. high, 
bearing numerous twiggy, slender, pendent branches, clad with leaves 14 in. 
long, and slender, filiform, and tapering to a sharp brown point. Towards 
the extremity of every branch, in the axil of each leaf, is a rather large flower 
upon a short peduncle, with a corolla of five bright rose-coloured petals. The 
figure exhibits a branch consisting of four upright twigs, the most upper part 
of each of which is adorned with several flowers; and, as these are shorter 
than the leaves, and the points of the leaves stand out beyond the flowers, 
fancy may imagine them to be “a troop of swords drawn to defend” the 
flowers. (Bot. Mag., August.) 


CXXI. Pittosporee. 


SO/LLYA heterophylla Lindi. Mr. D. Don has described this plant in Sweet’s British Flower- 
Garden for March, 1834, t. 232. _In the number for August, there is the following corrective 
note relative to it: —‘* Having had an opportunity of examining samples of the fruit which 
ripened at Mr. Knight’s during the past summer, I now find that it is aberry [the genus Sdllya 
was distinguished from the genus Billardiéra, on the assumption that the fruit of the former was 
a capsule; and, perhaps, on other points: the fruit of Billardiéra is a berry], and that its struc- 
ture differs in no respect from that of Billardiéra ; with which genus the plant must be again 


combined.’’? — D. Don. 2 
CXL. Caryophyllee. 
1388. SILE‘NE. i 


11586 virginica Z. Virginian y A or 2 my.au S Virginia 1783. Dp. Bot. mag. 3342 
Approaches to S. régia Szms.; but may be known from this by its smaller size, narrower leaves, 
smaller flowers, and bifid petals. 


The beauty of this species leads one to desire that it were not so rare in 
our living collections. The stems of S. virginica frequently exceed, in Ame- 
rica, 2 ft. in height: they bear oblong, acute, glabrous leaves, and a panicle of 
flowers whose petals are of a scarlet colour: these stand clear of each other 
in the border of the flower, so as to produce a star of five rays; each petal is 
bifid at the tip. (Bot. MMag., August.) 


DicoryLeponous MoNnoprTALous Puants. 


CLXX. Ericadcee. 


1173. ERISCA. i 
9667a codonddes Lindi. bell-formed-corollaed ##or 12f.m Pa.Ro ... .. C1s.p Bot. reg. 1698 
Seems essentially distinct from Z. arborea in its larger flowers, more slender leaves, less hardy 
branches, and truly bell-shaped corolla; which has by no means the globular form of that of 
&. arborea : its stigma is, moreover, very small, and not at all dilated or lobed, either when dried 
or recent. ZH. polytrichifdlia, which, we presume, is the #. arbdrea stylosa of English gardens, 
is equally distinct in the same characters. — Lindley. 


FE. codonédes Lindl. is stated to have the general appearance of E. arborea, 
but to differ in the particulars above quoted. “ Our drawing was made from 
specimens communicated to us by Mr. William Wood, nurseryman, of Mares- 
field, in Sussex, who informs us that the species is quite hardy, and forms a 
bush from 10 ft. to 12 ft.in height. It begins to blossom in February, and con- 
tinues till the end of May, disregarding both frost and snow, being often 
covered with flowers from top to bottom, and forming a most beautiful object. 
It is not, it is stated, very easily propagated. (ot. Reg., August.) 


CLXXIV. Campanulacee. 


607. CAMPA’NULA. is 
5054a garganica Ten. 2. A? ©? or Z jlau PaB Mt. St. Angelo 1830? Spl Sw.fl.gar.2.s.252 
There is a variety with smooth leaves, and one with hairy leaves. C. garganica Ten. comes very 
near to C, Hlatines L., but appears to be sufficiently distinct. — D. Don. 


The plant forms a little grass-green tuft, from which proceed many slender, 
branched, leafy stems of about 3in. high. The leaves are kidney-shaped or 
heart-shaped, serrated, The flowers are disposed in a racemose panicle, Co- 


460 - Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


rolla wheel-shaped, and of a cobalt blue colour. The species is admirably 
adapted for a rockwork, and appears to thrive best in a mixture of peat and 
loam. It is readily increased by division [?]. As the plants of this species 
are apt to be injured by too much wet, some of them should be kept in a 
frame during winter. Plants of it have been raised in the Bishop of Roches- 
ter’s garden, at Bromley. The figure has been derived from a plant com- 
municated by Mr. Mallison, at Sir S. Scott’s at Sundridge Park. (Zhe Brit. 
Flow.-Gard., August.) Mrs. Marryat-has a plant. (See p. 340.) 


CLXXXVI. Composite. 


9337a. DIPLOPA’PPUS Cassini. (Diploos, double, pappos, pappus; fruit furnished with a 
double row of bristles.) 19. 2. Sp. 4.— 
incdnus Lindl. hoary-herbaged “ Aj or 2 aut Li.Y California 1832. Cs.1 Bot. reg. 1693 
“ Tt is easily known from D. linarizfolius and its allies by its hoary leaves and soft flower-heads, 
which have the leaflets reflexed at the points in a squarrose manner, and covered with minute 
semitransparent glands.” 

D. incdnus is a handsome, half-shrubby species, discovered in California 
by Mr. Douglas, by whom seeds of it were sent to the Horticultural So- 
ciety, in 1832. Its heads of flowers have their rays of a rich lilac, and 
their disc of a bright yellow. It grows freely in summer, in any hot exposed 
situation. During winter it should be protected in a frame. (Bot. Reg., 


August.) 

CC. Polemoniacee. 

499. GLIA +4265 coronopifdlia Pers. (raven-footed-leafed Gflia) is figured in the Bot. Reg. for Aug., 
t. 1691. Synonyme, besides the synonymes quoted in Gard. Mag. IX. 705., Ipomopsis picta of 
the French gardens. 

Gilia coronopifdlia Pers., though delicate, is tolerably easy to cultivate, 
and produces its seeds in some abundance, while the closely related G. aggre- 
gita D. Don (see X. 70., G. pulchélla of others), which much resembles it, is 
so impatient of cultivation, that it is already nearly lost from our gardens. 
Both species are equally handsome. (Bot. Reg., August.) 

CCVII. Primuldcee. Lubinia atropurptrea. Mr. Maund has figured this 
plant in his Botanic Garden for August, fig. 461., and there given some ac- 
count of it. We quote as follows: — “ On examining the deep crimson petals 
of the Lubinia under a magnifier, we observed a number of minute pearl-like 
substances, spread over their whole interior surface. Its crimson filaments 
were also similarly gemmed. They appeared as grains of farina, fallen from 
the anthers; but a comparison showed them to be evidently brighter. This 
induced the application of a more powerful magnifier. The result was gra- 
tifying. The inner surface of the rich coloured petals, and the filaments also, 
were now seen to be adorned with prominent glands, each a little globe on 
a cylindrical pedestal. On the sun’s rays being fully reflected on a small por- 
tion of a petal, it instantly became a most dazzling object; a groundwork of 
fine crimson studded with brilliants. The most apathetic may exclaim, 
Wherefore this labour? wherefore this great splendour and beauty? That 
these glandular appendages have certain uses in the economy of the plant, 
none dare deny; but what they are, all are equally ignorant.” 


CCXI. Scrophularinee. 


3468. LOPHOSPE/RMUM. re 
Rhodochiton D. Don red-calyxed § _Jor 10 jno D.P Mexico 1833. S pl Sw.fl.gar.2.s,250 
** Rhodochiton volibile Zuccarini.’? — D. Don. 


Rhodochiton volibilis Gard. Mag. X. 346. 411. 


This is the Rhodochiton volubilis, of which mention is made in p. 346. and 
All. “It is clearly,” says Mr. D. Don, “a legitimate species of Lopho- 
spérmum.” A climbing suffrutescent plant, with stems slender and branched, 
the younger branches dark purple. Leaves stalked, heart-shaped, acuminate ; 
apparently not so large as those of L. erubéscens. Flowers axillary, one from 
an axil, pendulous. Peduncles slender, from 3in. to 5in. long. Calyx large, 
bell-shaped, widely spreading, membranous, pale purple. Corolla funnel- 
shaped, of an intense purple, 14in. long, clothed with white glandular hairs. 
This very beautiful climbing plant is a native of Mexico, and was introduced 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 461 


to Germany about two years ago; and, from the royal botanic garden at 
Berlin, it has found its way into the collections of this country. The figure 
published has been derived from a fine plant which blossomed in Mrs. Mar- 
ryat’s collection, at Wimbledon, in June last. The species may be pro- 
pagated both by seeds and cuttings, and will require the same treatment as 
the L. erubéscens, and is apparently quite as hardy as that species. (The 
Brit. Flow.-Gard., August.) 


CCXXI. Labiate. 
1669. STA*‘CHYS § Ambleia Bentham in Labiat. Gen. and Sp. 

inflata Benth. inflated-calymed A or 2? jlau Pk N. Africa? 1832. C51 Bot. reg. 1697 

Stem half-shrubby, hoary, woolly. Leaves grey above, white and woolly 
beneath. Spike of flowers rather long; the “thin, half-transparent, light 
violet fiowers, and neat hoary leaves, give the species a pleasing appearance.” 
The corollas are rather, according to the coloured figure, of a pink colour, 
deepened, in parts of the border, into rose. S, inflata is apparently hardy ; 
but, in consequence of the last two winters, it is not safe to speak confidently 
upon this point. It has grown freely in common garden soil, in the open air, 
in the garden of the London Horticultural Society. It is easily propagated 
by cuttings. (Bot. Reg., August.) 


CCXXVI. Hydrophillee. 


477. PHACE‘LIA. _[ Bot. reg. 1696 
tanacetifolia Benth. Tansy-lfd. ° © or 2 jn.jl? Light bluish violet California 1832. S co 


“ This is a more elegant and less weedy plant than the P. circinata. The 
stems are suberect, not much branched. ‘The leaves are pinnate, and have a 
large outline and pinnatifid pine. The flowers, whose corollas are of a light 
bluish violet colour, are nearly sessile along one-sided spirally incurved ra- 
cemes, forming together a dense dichotomous panicle placed at some distance 
from the upper leaves. The panicles are, according to the figure, placed each 
upon a peduncle 3in. or more in length. P. tanacetifolia is a native of Cali- 
fornia, where seeds of it were gathered by Mr. Douglas. In England it isa 
hardy annual, thriving in any soil or situation.” (Bot. Reg., August.) 


MonocoTryLeDoNous PLANTs. 


CCXXXVIII. Amaryllidee. 

979. ALSTRGSME*RI4 oculata Lod. (Bomarea oculata Penny in Gard. Mag. IX, 491.) is figured in 
the Bot. Mag. for August, t. 3344. 

“ The flowers of the present species, although, perhaps, smaller than those 
of any other species in the genus, are amongst the most desirable for graceful- 
ness and beauty, and remarkable for the eye-like spot in the centre of each 
inner sepal. Forty-nine kinds of Alstroeméria are enumerated in Schultes’s 
Systema Vegetabilium, several undescribed ones exist in our herbarium, and 
others are to be met with in the stoves and green-houses of this country.” 
(Bot. Mag., August.) 


CCXL. Orchidee. 


2547. DENDRO‘'BIUM. [Bot. reg. 1695 
agegregatum Rox. clustered-pseudo-bulbed yg (A) or 1 mr.ap Y India 1828. Dprw 

** It belongs to a curious section of the genus; all the species of which have their stems shortened 

into the pseudo-bulbous form of Bolbophyllum, and thus form a natural transition to that genus.’” 
— Lindley. 

The pseudo-bulbs are spindle-shaped and clustered, and about 2 in. high : 
the leaves 3in. long. The raceme of flowers is produced from one side of 
the pseudo-bulb, is 9in. or more long, devoid of flowers at its base, but in its 
upper part bearing from ten to fifteen flowers, which are of a pale yellow 
colour, with a portion of saffron colour towards the base of the labellum. 
The figure exhibits what we should deem quite an ornamental species. Trees 
in woods in the northern border of Arracan, and on the banks of the Chap- 
padong river in the Gulf of Martaban, are native habitats in which this species 
has been found. “ It appears to require as much heat and moisture as any 
of the Indian species: a circumstance which is explained by its inhabiting, 


Vou. X.— No. 54. KK 


462 Queries and Answers. 


when wild, the damp and sultry woods of Martaban..... It has hitherto 
flowered only in the collections of Mr. Harrison and Mr. Bateman.” (Bot. 
Reg., August.) 

CCLVI. Aroidee. 


2672. CALA\DIUM. (Bot. mag. 3345 

+23489 grandifolium W. large-leafed § [Jor Gapmy W _ Demerara, Caraccas 1803. C s.p 
Arum grandifolium Jacquin. Not Calddiwm grandifdlium Sims in Bot. Mag. t. 2643. 

23489a Simsz? Hook. Sims’s &@ ©) or 6 apmy W ont 006 C sp Bot. mag. 2643 
Caladium grandifdlium Sims in Bot. Mag. 2643. Not A‘rum grandifdlium of Jacquin. 

Now that I have seen a recent flowering specimen of the true C. grandifdlium, I cannot but come 

to the conclusion that Dr. Sims’s plant is of quite another species, with leaves glossy on the upper 

surface, and having a broad semicircular sinus at the base with differently shaped lobes, and a 

spatha almost exactly resembling, both in form and colour, that of our C. fragrantissimum ; being 

red, and remarkably inflated below, and not pale green, and attenuated at the base. —Dr. Hooker. 


C. grandifolium W. is figured from the Glasgow Botanic Garden, where “ it 
makes a truly handsome appearance ; with its climbing and rooting stems, its 
large foliage, and pale spathas with a dark red line down the middle on the 
back.” The stem is dingy green spotted with purple. The leaves are 2 ft. 
or more long, heart-shaped, arrow-shaped; petiole rounded, spotted with 
‘purple. Spatha at first pale green, afterwards pale buff; green at the base 
on the outside, pinkish within; marked at the back with a purple or dark 
red line. Flowers scentless. (Bot. Mag., August.) 

Miscellaneous. — Plants of Bérberis mitis Schrad., Bétula grandis Schrad., 
‘and of some other species, have arisen from the seeds sent, as noticed in 
‘p. 170., to Mr. Penny. 

In the Nursery of Messrs. W. Young and G. Penny, at Milford, near Godal- 
ming, Surrey, the following species and varieties of plants were flowering on 
July 13. 1834:— Rosa bracteata alba pléna Penny; Maria Leonida rose 
Hort., introduced last autumn from Paris. This is a freely growing, abun- 
dantly flowering variety; its flowers are moderately double, and very fragrant ; 
the petals white, slightly tinged with pink, the base of each yellowish. Lotus 
‘arenarius and atropurpureus ; Dianthus attenuatus; nova sp., allied to D. gi- 
gantéus, but the flowers of it are larger and brighter. Taxanthéma pectinata, 
tatarica, pubérula, a new species allied to pubérula, nana, and arborea; Hy- 
péricum floribindum, Genista rhodépnoa, Cytisus racemésus, Sempervivum 
cruéntum, Ornithégalum capénse ; Fichsza grandiflora, longiflora, speciosa, and 
pre‘cox ; Pterocéphalus Rhodocéphalus, Calceolaria arachnoideaalbida, Luculia 
gratissima, Rhodochiton volubilis [Lophospérmum Rhodochiton D. Don}, 
Ipomee'a Sellow#, Rantnculus créticus and cardiophyllus; Isopléxis canari- 
-énsis, glabra, and var. pubéscens; Anthyllis tetraphylla, Petunia viscosa and 
hybrida, Astragalus falcatus, Ononis angustifolia, Spiree‘a sororia, Cheiranthus 
longifolius and mutabilis Bot. Reg.; Frankeénia thymifolia, Viola palmaénsis, 
thus named from its inhabiting the Isle of Palma, one of the Canary Islands. 
We have succeeded in obtaining a fine hybrid between this distinct species and 
one of the finest varieties of pansies. From Cineraria cima we have obtained 
some elegant varieties from seeds. — G. P. 


Art.IV. Queries and Answers. 


ABSORPTION of Sap by the Roots of Plants; in answer to J. D. P. (p. 295.) — 
There are few things that can be more interesting and important to the gar- 
dener than an acquaintance with the laws and principles of vegetation; and 
it is pleasing to observe, that, limited as is our knowledge of phytological 
science (in comparison with others upon which an almost uniform opinion 
prevails), even now an attention to its principles will teach us the great pro- 
priety of institutmg some new systems of management; and, what is of great 
importance, will furnish us with an incontrovertible answer to those who may 
have the right to ask, why in such and such a manner we conduct our opera- 
tions. The great diversity of opinion that exists in relation to some phyto- 
logical doctrines, though operating as a present inconyenience to the young 


Queries and Answers. 463. 


enquirer, will ultimately tend to the advancement of the science and the 
practical improvement of gardeners; as every doubt that is expressed, and 
every query that is proposed for solution, will arouse our mental capacities, 
and teach us to examine, observe, and experiment for ourselves. Far rather 
would I seek after truth amidst diversity of sentiment, arising from investi- 
gation, than witness a unity of opinion arising from ignorance, or from think- 
ing beings tamely submitting their judgments to some established authority. 
Hence the importance of such queries and statements as those proposed by 
your correspondent J. D. P. (p.295.), in relation to the absorbing qualities 
of the roots of plants; upon which I beg leave to offer a few remarks, which, 
without positively denying, in all cases, the absorbing qualities of the large 
roots, will tend to show that the evidence adduced by your correspondent 
fails to satisfactorily establish generally such a proposition. I say generally, 
because I doubt if there are any principles in the science of phytology that 
can be laid down as universal, like a mathematical axiom: all we can do is to. 
form, from practice and observation, general inferences, from which there are, 
or may be, exceptions, arising from the great diversity of habits, &c., which. 
exist among different plants, and even among those of the same species when 
placed in different circumstances. The change eftected by soil and situation 
is frequently so great, that it becomes difficult to identify a plant as belonging 
to its proper species. I have somewhere read that Sir J. E. Smith found the 
Alopecurus geniculatus, which generally has a fibrous creeping root, furnished 
with an ovate juicy bulb on the top of a dry wall. Thus the fact alluded to 
by your correspondent, allowing it to be generally correct, that plants, having 
large roots with few fibres, make the most luxuriant shoots, fails to support. 
the hypothesis of the generally absorbing quality of the body of the root, inas- 
much as no allusion is made to the circumstances in which the plants were 
placed between which the comparison was made, nor yet to the size of the 
spongelets; though these relative circumstances I conceive to be of much 
importance in determining the point. In a root possessing comparatively but 
few fibres, I have observed the spongioles to be as large as the quill end of a 
crow’s feather ; while in some with many fibres, the spongioles were so small as 
not to be easily distinguished. Thus, although embracing the spongiole 
system, we are not under the necessity of admitting that the plant possessing 
the greatest number of fibres will grow the most luxuriantly; since we know. 
that a dense mass of fibres is frequently occasioned by an obstruction to the 
elongation of the root, or from the plant being situated in circumstances so 
unfavourable, that, to maintain itself in existence, it puts in exercise a wonderful 
accommodating principle, and, by multiplying its feeding or absorbing organs, 
accomplishes that which, by a few spongioles, however large, could not have 
been effected. 

Your correspondent farther asks, how the success of the vines he had 
transplanted could be accounted for, “ unless upon the supposition of the 
nutriment-absorbing quality of the large roots, as all (?) the fibres had unavoid- 
ably been destroyed.” This, I consider, may be very easily accounted for, in 
unison with the spongiole system, merely by viewing the large roots as_reser- 
voirs of nourishment; by which I do not mean, as is yet too generally supposed, 
that, at the approach of winter, the sap descends and takes up its abode 
in the roots; what I mean is, that the root and every other living part of a 
deciduous plant contain, even when exposed to the stormy blasts of winter, 
a fluid which, if not flowing, is ready to be put in active motion by the genial 
warmth of spring. It is this fluid, acted upon by heat, that supplies the swelling 
and expanding bud; and, no sooner are the leaves unfolded to the agency of 
light than they repay the obligation by transmitting downwards the elaborated 
sap affording nourishment and increase to the plant; and, from the termi- 
nating fibres of the roots, or from parts somewhat analogous to the latent 
buds upon the stem, causing the protrusion of spongioles for the purpose of 
supplying a constant necessary addition to that fluid in the plant, which other- 
wise would soon become exhausted. I never met with an instance of a plant 

KK 2 


464 Queries and Answers. 


being covered with a luxuriant foliage, without its possessing at the same time 
beautiful spongioles. Even the shoots that rise from the stool of an ash or 
an oak, though luxuriating for a time upon the sap obtained from the root as 
a reservoir, soon demand a fresh ‘supply, which they take care to provide for 
by the creation of absorbing organs. If your correspondent had closely 
examined the subject, he would have found that his vines did not flourish 
without possessing plenty of fibres and spongioles also; and he would have 
been led to doubt, whether the branchy parts of roots absorb “ much more 
nutriment” than the trunk of a tree cut down in winter does, for the spray 
and shoots it frequently produces in the ensuing season. It happens, unfortu- 
nately for your correspondent’s hypothesis, that, though the vine loses frequently 
great part of its terminating fibres every season, it soon obtains very beautiful 
spongioles, when vegetation in the branches has commenced ; provided the 
roots and tops are situated in nearly similar circumstances, as regards tempe- 
rature. 

I am supposing that your correspondent performed the transplanting ope- 
ration after the fall of the leaf; and, although he would lose a great many fibres, 
it is not unlikely that an approach to an equilibrium would be made, by the 
pruning which the top would receive: and, merely in support of the spongiole 
system, I will mention a fact that came under my observation; which is, that, 
a gardener having lifted the roots of a vine, for the purpose of placing them 
more within the influence of the sun’s rays, while the top was in leaf, the 
consequence was, that the next day the leaves were withered. The success 
in the one case, and the failure in the other, are easily accounted for. In 
the first case, we may almost be certain that the top of the vine was not left 
so bulky as it was the preceding summer; the organs of evaporation were con- 
sequently diminished, as well as the sponge-like vessels of absorption, while 
the gradual expansion of the leaves, and consequent transpiration from them, 
were soon followed by the gradual production of spongioles to supply that 
transpiration. In the latter case, the sap of the plant was in full motion, 
the leaves were perspiring and the roots were absorbing freely ; the transplant- 
ing necessarily destroyed many of the supplying organs, while the leaves were 
exposed as before to the evaporating and decomposing influences of heat and 
light; and the mere possession of length of root and many fibres besides, 
with the assistance of watering, could not avert the consequence. Although 
aware, that all parts of a plant act and react on each other so as to form a 
complete whole, many seem to forget that there are certain circumstances 
necessary, before these parts can effect their reciprocal actions. Hence the 
failure of transplanted trees; hence the sickly appearance they long present, 
when they at length begin to recover from the operation, from the top being 
so much out of unison with the roots; and hence the failure of the vine I 
have adverted to. If the processes of decomposition and transpiration had in 
some measure been prevented by shading, &c., there would have been nothing 
so remarkable in keeping the vine in health (not speaking of the crop), as we 
see exemplified every day when striking cuttings under a bell glass. 

This brings me to J. D. P.’s queries respecting cuttings, upon which it is 
quite unnecessary to enter at length, as I can see nothing in the operation of 
striking that will support our friend’s hypothesis: the very same principle is 
exemplified that I have adverted to in the case of the transplanted vines, and 
this will be better understood by attending to the phenomena that take place, 
when a slip of a gooseberry put unprotected in the ground becomes a plant ; 
or when a slip furnished with leaves does the same, when shaded from the 
sun, and attended to in other respects as its comparative hardiness or tender- 
ness require, than could be done by any laboured description. The method 
by which moisture is absorbed by a cutting, it being only a disjoined part of a 
whole, could not be adduced as a proof of the manner it is done by a per- 
fect plant; but I conceive that the moisture will rise in the same tubes as 
formerly, though in a far less perfect way. But it is the top more than the 
bottom of a cutting, the preservation more than the developement of the vital 


Queries and Answers. 465 


energies, that we must first attend to. If we can only keep the leaves in a 
healthy state, the elaborating processes, however slowly eftected by them, will 
gradually lead to the production of capillary absorbents ; which will supply the 
slip with the means of extension, and with the power of becoming, like its 
archetype, great, grand, or beautiful. 

It is very probable that the individual who has proposed these queries 
may be more competent to answer them than he who now addresses you; 
if so, I hope he +will not only excuse my errors and imperfections, but 
candidly expose them: and, lest I should have succeeded only so far as to 
render darkness more visible, I earnestly solicit your more learned and more 
experienced correspondents to throw some light upon the sabject ; for, trifling 
though it appear to some, I am fully convinced that a proper understanding of 
phytological science will lead to great improvements in the art of gardening. — 
Scientie et Justitie Amator. King’s Road, Chelsea, June 28. 1834. 

Perpetual Cropping. — In that most excellent work, Conversations on Vege- 
table Physiology, vol. 1. p. 267., it is stated that there is land in the Vale of 
Glastonbury, in Somersetshire, which is celebrated for growing wheat many 
years successively, without being manured; and that near the Carron Iron 
works, in Stirlingshire, wheat has been raised from the same land above thirty 
years, without injury either to the crops or to the soil. Believing, as I do, in 
the doctrine of the exudations of plants, so beautifully explained in the volume 
quoted, I feel great difficulty in giving faith to the above statements. As you 
have, no doubt, correspondents in the neighbourhood of both places, some 
one of them in each would probably oblige me and, no doubt, others of your 
readers, by examining into the case, and sending you the result. For instance, 
Mr. Callow (1X. 123.), and the ingenious Peter Mackenzie (IX. 563.),— 
D.W. Stewart. Shrewsbury, March 10. 1834, 

Planting Oaks a Year or two before the Trees intended to nurse them; in an-= 
swer to the Rey. W. T. Bree. (p. 295.) — In reply to Mr. Bree’s enquiry as to 
the policy of planting oaks, where they are the principal objects, two or three 
years before the plantation is filled up with the nurses, I have no doubt that 
this would answer extremely well; but it would be inconvenient, as it would 
interfere more or less with the cropping of the land in the interval; and, 
without more care than usually characterises those to whom the tillage of 
land is intrusted, the oaks would, in all probability, be injured. From Mr. 
Bree’s observations, I am inclined to doubt whether he adopts the plan of 
cutting off the young oaks close to the ground two or more years after plant- 
ing. If the oak is strong and well rooted when planted, and the nurses are 
planted small, that is to say, two years after their removal from the seed bed, 
and the oak planted at the same time is cut off two years afterwards, pro- 
vided the soil be well adapted to oak, he will find the principal shoot from the 
stool (the others being pruned away) will very speedily equal the nurses in 
growth. It is quite surprising how much faster and straighter the oak grows 
under this treatment. In 1829, a coachman having put his horses to a car- 
riage in my yard, left them, and they started off; the turn on the road being 
very short, they got among the opposite shrubs, and, to my annoyance, they 
broke off a Lucombe oak close to the ground: it was a handsome shrub, 
but had made very little growth upwards. The next spring I was surprised 
to see a fine vigorous shoot from the broken stool. I immediately pared 
away the broken parts, and applied a composition to protect it from the wet. 
I have just now measured the tree to the top of last year’s shoot, being four 
years’ growth: the height is exactly 12 ft. 3in., and the girth, at a foot from 
the ground, is just 121in. The stem is as straight asa ramrod, with ample 
branches spreading from the base, after the manner of a fine spruce fir; and, 
by the end of this season, the stool will be so completely grown over that 
it would hardly be discovered that the stem was not of one growth from the 
beginning. I mention this as an accidental illustration of the advantage of 
the process recommended in this and my former letter. — Charles Lawrence. 
Cirencester, July 11. 1834. 


466 Queries and Answers. 


Larch Bark for Tanning. (p. 290.) — Having been absent from home when 
the June number of your Magazine arrived, I never saw Mr. Bree’s enquiries, 
addressed to myself, until this day, or I should have noticed them earlier. I 
I have never found any difficulty in disposing of the larch bark in this neigh- 
bourhood; but the tanners will only give half the price of oak bark, or there- 
abouts; whereas I have been informed that the fair proportion, with refer- 
ence to the tannin contained in a given weight of each, would be two thirds 
for larch bark. Larch of upwards of twenty years’ growth pays for stripping, 
even at the present low price of 3/. a ton. For some years past, 1 have 
always received 3/. 10s. — Charles Lawrence. Cirencester, July 11. 1834. 

The Tala Plant is said to be used for hedges in the neighbourhood of 
Buenos Ayres, and to make excellent ones. What is its scientific name ? 
Has it been introduced into Britain; and what is known about it in this 
country? —J.S8.P. Jan. 1834. 

This appears to be the Coultéra hérrida of Kunth, a stove shrub, intro- 
duced from Carthagena in 1824. It belongs to the natural order of Legumi- 
nosz, suborder Cesalpinee, and tribe Cassiéze. (See Hort. Brit., p. 167.) As 
to its becoming a hedge plant in Britain, it is quite out of the question. — 
Cond. 

The Shaddock and the Mango.— The shaddock contains generally thirty- 
two seeds, two of which only will reproduce shaddocks; and these two it is 
impossible to distinguish. The rest will yield, some sweet oranges, others 
bitter ones, others, again, forbidden fruit, and, in short, all the varieties of the 
orange: but, until the trees actually are in bearing, no one can guess what the: 
fruit is likely to prove; and even then the seeds which produce shaddocks, 
although taken from a tree remarkable for the excellence of its fruit, will fre- 
quently yield only such as are scarcely eatable. So, also, the varieties of the 
mango are infinite; the fruit of no two trees resembling each other; and the 
seeds of the very finest mango (although sown and cultivated with the utmost 
care) seldom affording anything at all like the parent stock. (Lewis’s Journal, 
as quoted in the Lit. Gaz., March 1. 1834, p.151.) Can any of your readers 
(Dr. Hamilton of Plymouth, for instance) inform me to what extent the 
assertions above, respecting the shaddock, are true? If the seeds of a shad-. 
dock will not only produce shaddocks, but oranges and lemons, the fact will 
be as wonderful as the primula of the Rev. Mr. Herbert, which produced, 
from one seed-pod, auriculas, polyanthuses, cowslips, and primroses. — James. 
Roberts. York, March 5. 1834. 

Balsams.— The balsams exhibited at the horticultural féte, July 5., and 
noticed p. 411., being profusely covered with bloom, and yet weak in their 
stems and branches, we wrote to Mr. Mills to ask the cause, when he sent us 
the following answer :— The balsams exhibited were grown under frames 
with melons, and were thus drawn up weak. They were, when too large to 
remain with the melon plants, removed into a pit that had become vacant, in 
which there was a little bottom heat, but not sufficient to keep them growing 
as fast as they had been growing in the melon frame, by which means a great 
check was given to them. They then became infested with the green fly, 
which would have destroyed them, had I not given them a strong fumigation 
with tobacco. These two checks, you perceive, were the cause of the flowers 
being in disproportion to the strength of the plants. This kind of balsam, 
when well grown, is, I think, the most beautiful of the balsam tribe. — George 
Mills. Gunnersbury Park, July 13. 1834, 

Cabbage Tree of Lapland. — Can any of your readers inform me where I 
could procure seeds of this plant, which is said to be more hardy than the 
ruta baga, and to grow to the height of four or five feet ? My intention is to 
use it as winter food for sheep, on land to which I cannot afford a sufficient 
supply of manure to grow turnips. —Jofn Brown. Cotswold, Gloucestershire, 
Dec, 1833. 


Covent Garden Market. 467 


ART. V. Covent Garden Market. 


From T Ue rl 
Tiel CabbazeyTuihe abs lReteatalleltga alll or Geena ao |e cater or. 
Cabbage, per dozen: Sea Samphire, p. smallpunnet| 0 0 6|0 1 0 
hite = = - |0 0 9|0 1 6]}| Vegetable Marrow, per dozen| 0 0 9/0 1 0 
Red = - - |0 3 0/0 4 O}| Capsicums, per hundred : 
Plants or Coleworts - |0 16/0 2 6 Green = : Si Oy He@ |) Oat 3G} 
Broccoli, Cape, perbunch- |0 1 0/|.0 1 6 Red - oO « g 3 eg g p 0 
ilis O O Oo (0) 
Baaaiie mee O21 lO SG Edible Fungi and Fuct. - 
S28 Was BIEN errata ey Mushrooms, per pottle - |0 0 9/0 1 6 
Kidneybeans, per halfsieve |0 1 0/0 1 6 Morels, ary, ee Pound Lah ONO Oe 
K ruffles, per pound: 
Tubers and Roots. malice P ia me _- 103 01000 
per ton 210 0}4 0 0 Foreign, dry - - |012 0/0 00 
Potatoes - Sper cwt. 03 0/0 4 0 ; 
perbushel |0 1 9/0 2 3 Fruits. 
Turnips, White, per bunch 0 0 2)0 O 3]! Apples, Dessert, per 2 sieve: 
Carrots,perbunch - - |0 0 4/0 0 8 Gravestein . - 10 50;0 60 
Horn - - - = |/0 06/0 0 0 Kerry Pippin 5S oO 6 OO 6G © 
Red Beet, per dozen - |0 10/0 1 6 Nonesuch . - |0 30/0 00 
Radishes : Quarrenden’ - - |0 30/0 4 0 
Red, per dozen hands (24 Baking, per bushel - |0 20/1080 
to 30 each) > - | 0 0 9/0 1 O}| Pears, Dessert, per half sieve: 
White Turnip, per bunch 001 13 Williams’s © ie - 1015 0/018 @ 
Knevett’s Seedling - {010 0/015 0 
The Spinach Tribe. Heachessspet dozen - - |0 20/0 40 
rf er sieve slo nl 610 oo ectarines, perdozen - |0 2 6/0 3 6 
Spinach ee half sieve - |0 1 0|0 0 O|| Plums, Dessert jee Zsieve|}0 5 0/0 7 0 
Sorrel, per halfsieve - - |0 10/0 0 0 per punnet} 0 1 0)0 1 3 
Green Gage ee half sieve e A ° i ° 0 
The Onion Tribe. per punnet 6 
Onions, per bushel - = 10 3 610 0 0 Coe’s Golden Drop - |0 20/000 
Ls 9 Imperatrice - - |0 20/0 2 6 
For pickling, per half sieve} 0 2 6/0 5 O Bakin half si 03 610'5 0 
When green (Ciboules), per Ue Der na Sieve s ; 
Mulberries, p. gall. (2 pottles)| 0 0 810 0 0 
bunch = e - |9 0 3/0 ©O O}| Currants, per half sieve : 
Leeks, per dozen bunches ~ |0 2 6/0 3 0 Blackie E ae 0301050 
Garlic, per pound -~-= 10 06/00 8 White ii i: 110261036 
Shallots, perpound - - |0 0 6/0 010]} Rea forwine - - 103 0/03 6 
oj For tarts - - |0 3 6/0 4 0 
Asp Saas me ; Dessert, per half sieve 050;0 70 
Artichokes, per dozen - 10 2 0);0 4 0 aris Hed, Eee gallon 0091010 
Lettuce, per score: Walnuts, Foreign, green, per 
1 Ca Su ente Lee eae 8 meade (se (a I) 8 OlOW © 
abba; 2 = = Filberts, English, per 100lbs.| 3 0 0/315 O 
Celery, per bundle (12to15) |0 10/0 1 6 Pine.apples, per aoand - 1036107 0 
- Ss 
Pat ant Suet Herbs. | Seas ren perenne cheat 
Tarragon, per dozen bunches} 0 6 0/.0 0 0 per pound - - |0 0 410 0 6 
Fennel, per dozen bunches 0 3 0/0 O O}| Figs, per dozen 3 - 10 26/10 5 0 
“Thyme, per dozen bunches 0 3 0) 0 O O}} Melons, each Bo Fo OBO OS wo 
Sage, per dozen bunches - | 0 2 0|0 0 0j4| Cucumbers, (per hundred- | 0 0 610 0 9 
Mint, per dozen bunches - 02 0/0 2 6) Pickling ? per thousand 03 0/0 4 0 
Peppermint, per doz. bunches} 0 1 6/0 0 01 gyanoes § Per dozen - |0 10/0 3 0 
Marjoram, per dozen bunches| 0 3 0/0 0 0 e) per hundred - |0 8 0/018 0 
Savory, per dozen bunches - | 0 2 6/0 O O Lemons § Pet dozen - - |0 10)0 20 
Basil, perdozenbunches - |0 2 6|0 0 O per hundred - |0 6 C/014 0 
Rosemary, per dozen bunches} 0 4 0| 0 O O}| Brazil Nuts, perbushel - |016 0/0 0 O 
Lavender, per dozen bunches} 0 3 0] 0 O 0O]|| Spanish Nuts, per peck - |}0 40/0 0 0 
Tansy, per dozen bunches - | 0 1 6/0 O Oj] Barcelona Nuts, per peck - |0 5 0{0 0 0 


The favourable state of the weather in the early part of this month, for the 
growth of vegetables, has been the means of keeping up a supply of most of 
the articles usually furnished at this season; so that prices have been alto- 
gether very moderate, with the assurance of continuing so, and the certainty 
of a good supply throughout the autumn and early winter months. Of fruit 
we have had but little except apples, which are generally an abundant crop. 
Plums, damsons, and pears are scarce. We have had a supply of green gages 
from France, which have realised good prices, and remunerated the importers, 
although the expense of transport from Brighton to London is very heavy. 
Some fine red currants from Holland have been occasionally seen in the 
market, although our own crop has been generally good. Melons, from Hol- 
land, have also been plentiful at very low prices. Filberts are deficient in crop, 
but have been sent to market in a very green state plentifully, so that our 
supply to come will be short. Walnuts, from Ostend, have been introduced 
in large quantities in an unripe state; so that the market is, at present, quite 
overloaded with them: our own crop is comparatively small. Of wall fruit 


468 London Hort. Soc. and Garden. — Obituary. 


we have had an excellent supply, being forced precociously into the market 
by the continued prevalence of a very high temperature. Prices have been, 
consequently, low; but are now gradually improving. Grapes have been in 
abundance, and the crops upon the walls are extraordinary. Onions for 
winter use are coming to hand plentifully; the crop generally good. Of 
potatoes we have had a moderate supply: the crop having been generally im- 
proved by the late rains, the later planted varieties will be better in qua- 
lity and quantity than was anticipated during the early part of the season. 
Turnips are in good supply, with promise of abundance; the quality much 
improved by the wet weather in the early part of the month, and the later 
crop made certain. Of late peas we have had a fair proportion; and a small 
supply may be expected for a month or six weeks to come. French beans 
have been, and continue to be, excellent, and in large quantities; the con- 
tinuance of which, unless interrupted by early frost, may be confidently ex- 
pected.— G. C. August 25. 183.4 


Art. VI. London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Aveust 5. 1834.— Read. A note upon the Chasselas musqué grape, by 
Mr. Robert Thompson. 

Exhibited. Flowers (double) of a variegated pomegranate, from Lady Farn- 
borough. Melons, five, from Mr. James Duncan, gardener to W. Whitbread, 
Esq. Grapes, two sorts, from Mr. J. Wilmot, F.H.S. Flowers of the Ex- 
mouth magnolia from the open ground, fruit of the Devonshire Quarrenden 
apple, and of the Maddock apple, from Mr. J. Kirke. Cucumbers, 21 in. 
long, from Mr. Cuthill, gardener to L. Sulivan, Esq. Brunsvigia Josephine, 
from Mr. Fielder, gardener to W. Linwood, Esq. Flowers of Stuartia vir- 
ginica, Catalpa syringefolia, Nolana paradéxa, Eschschdltzia californica 
double-flowered, Sparaxis sp., double-flowered pomegranate, China roses, 
georginas, and a seedling Dianthus, from Mrs. Marryat. Flowers of georginas 
from Messrs. Chandler, and from Mr. Glenny. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Fruit: Late duke cherry, from a 
standard; Early bough apple, an American variety, a very good early apple 
either for the kitchen or the table. Grapes: Harrison’s hardy purple, one of 
the Burgundy tribe, or, if a seedling, allied to them; it proves not large 
enough for deserving glass, although it is a good grape for a wall; Large 
white sweetwater, Green chee. Flowers: Chironia trinérvis, Fachsia sp. 
from Port Famine: this species is remarkable for the dark colour of its 
foliage ; its flowers are numerous, dark-coloured, and rather small; Lobélia 
Tupa, Lupinus ornatus, Erythrina Crista-galli, from the open air; Catasétum 
tridentatum var., Verbéna vendsa and Aublétia, Pentstémon Richardsonz, 
Phlox cordifolia, Zinnia élegans coccinea, Hibiscus africanus, Helichrysum 
bracteatum album, Pefznia phoenicea, Potentilla Hopwoodidna, Chrysanthe- 
mum carinatum, Lupinus mutabilis and mutabilis var. Cruckshankidnus, 
Wistaria Consequana, Sdllya (Billardiéra) heterophylla, Nicotidza glatca, 
Ceanothus azureus, Caprifolium japonicum, roses, georginas, Magnolia grandi- 
flora var., var. exoniénsis, and var. rubigindsa. 


Art. VII. Obituary. 


Diep, at St. Mary’s Isle, Kirkcudbright, on June 24., Mr. James Nisbet, 
gardener, aged 61 years. Shrewd, rational, and intelligent, he possessed, in 
no ordinary degree, all the social and all the domestic virtues. He was a 
skilful gardener and an excellent botanist, and had long enjoyed the honour 
of being a corresponding member of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 
(Dumfries Courier.) 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
OCTOBER, 1834. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Art. I. Notes on Gardens and Country Seats, visited, from July 27. 
to September 16., during a Tour through Part of Middlesex, Berk- 
shire, Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire, Wiltshire, Dorsetshire, Hamp- 
shire, Sussex, and Kent. By the Conpucror. 


(Continued from p. 419.) 


Torrenuau Park Wharf. — Aug. 17. This wharf is kept by 
Mr. Stanley, who also rents a farm, and has a general charge, as 
substeward, over a considerable tract of country on Lord Ayles- 
bury’s estate. Under his care is the principal part of the 
cottages which have been improved by Mr. Iveson (see p. 413.). 
We rode to several of them with Mr. Stanley, who gave us 
numerous interesting details of their past, as compared with their 
present, state. The people are still slaves to the poor laws’ system ; 
but wretched indeed must have been their condition before they 
were commiserated by Mr. Iveson. In short, they were then 
ignorant and savage enemies of the farmers, and of every other 
class of men. Mr. Stanley, with the approbation of the late mar-. 
chioness, introduced the four girls’ schools before mentioned ; 
but twice that number of schools, both for infants and for 
the youth of both sexes, are wanted. Nothing great, however, 
can be done, in the way of educating the poor, till a national 
system of instruction is established. Mr. Stanley is from the 
Duke of Sutherland’s estates at Trentham, and has enlarged 
and liberal ideas upon the subject of territorial improvement. 
On his wharf we saw a large heap of Bath ashes; viz., the street 
sweepings of that city, after they have been laid in a heap, and 
suffered to ferment, and afterwards sifted or screened, in the 
manner of the poudrette at Paris. ‘They are sold to the farmers 
at 44d. a bushel. ‘The Newbury ashes, which are made from 
turf dug out of the Vale of Kennet, sell from 8d. to 4d. a bushel, 
according as they are more or less earthy. With the facility of 
procuring these ashes, and the permission to cut as much fern 
as they choose from the Park at Tottenham for litter, it is- not 
Vou, X.— No. 55. LL 


4.70 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


to be wondered at that the farmers on this estate should raise 
large crops, notwithstanding their inferior system of culture. A 
curious practice with meadow lands was pointed out to us by 
Mr. Stanley. Where the soil of such grass lands is stiff, the 
farmers strew stubble, or dry litter, such as old thatch, and the 
sweepings of stack yards, slightly over it; these straws the worms 
draw into their holes, and in this way are supposed to fertilise 
the ground, and render it lighter. Mr. Stanley is convinced that 
this practice has a good effect; but as to how it operates he is not 
quite so clear. In going to see the old barn, in which Henry VIII. 
is said to have been married to Jane Seymour (the mother 
of Edward VI., who established so many schools), we observed 
the process of building mud walls going on. It is here practised 
by common day labourers; and Mr. Stanley assured us that, 
when built on good flint or brick foundations, and well thatched, 
with the eaves projecting so far as completely to throw off the 
rain, these walls will last for an unknown length of time. ‘They 
are very common in Wiltshire, and make excellent farmyard 
as well as garden walls, and the warmest of all cottages. In our 
Encyc. of Architecture, § 838. to 843., will be found a detailed 
description of the mode of building cob walls in Devonshire, 
where houses two or three stories high are built in this way. 
This account was sent us by a clergyman, who states, as a proof 
of their great durability, that he was himself born in a cob 
parsonage, built in the time of Elizabeth. The Devonshire 
mode, and that practised in Wiltshire, appear to be exactly the 
same. ‘The Cambridgeshire mode is different, and is also given 
in the work referred to, § 159. The French mode (pzsé), which 
is more elaborate, will be found in our Architectural Magazine, 
vol. i., as applicable to one of the most economical designs for a 
group of four roadside cottages (by Mr. Wilds, surveyor, Hert- 
ford), which we have anywhere seen. We would not, however, 
be understood as recommending cob, mud, or pisé walls, either 
for cottages, or anything else, where brick or stone can be pro- 
cured; but we should certainly prefer them to loghouses, as 
being safer from fire, warmer in winter, and cooler in summer. 

Tidworth, Thomas Ashton Smith, Esq.— Aug. 18. This 
gentleman is celebrated in the annals of sporting, and we visited 
his place chiefly with the view of seeing the plans of his stables 
and dog-kennels. We were, however, agreeably surprised to 
find an excellent house, and kitchen-garden, and a very intelli- 
gent young gardener, Mr. Saunders, the brother of our Bristol 
correspondent of that name. (IX. 425.) The steward of the 
estate here is Mr. Northeast, an enlightened and well-informed 
man, who has followed the same system of improving the cot- 
tages under his care, as Mr. Iveson has in those of the Tottenham 
Park estate. 


Tidworth. 471 


The house at Tidworth is situated in a bottom, with little 
pretensions to architectural style; but it is substantially built, and 
contains a good suite of apartments, large, lofty, and well lighted, 
and plainly, but comfortably, finished and furnished. The 
bedrooms are numerous, and, with the dressing-rooms, are also 
lofty and properly lighted and ventilated; and they are finished 
in a style perfectly consistent with that of the principal rooms. 
The furniture harmonises with the finishing; but, though both 
are plain, it must not be thought that the effect produced is 
meagre ; for the doors of the public rooms are of mahogany, and 
the windows of plate glass. We examined the kitchen, fitted 
up by Ward of London; the contrivance for supplying all the 
bedrooms with hot water from the back of the kitchen fire, by 
Stothert of Bath; the bath room ; the arrangements for watering 
the flower-garden and extinguishing fires, by Bramah; and the 
_ game, meat, and vegetable larders, fitted up with slate; all of 
which we found excellent. On the whole, this house is the most 
complete and comfortable which we have met with since we left 
London; it is spacious, and yet habitable; and everywhere sub- 
stantially good, without the slightest appearance of glitter or 
gaudiness. One peculiarity in it, and in all the other buildings 
at Tidworth, is the use of Welsh slate, wherever it can be 
brought in. All the bedroom, and many of the sitting-room 
chimneypieces and hearths are formed of it; it is used for paving 
the passages and courtyards; for forming cisterns, troughs, 
mangers, and orange-tree boxes; for kitchen tables and side- 
boards; for a large mortar for culinary purposes; for tables and 
shelves in the dairy and larder; and for a variety of similar uses. 

There is a handsome architectural conservatory, designed by 
Mr. Page of Southampton, joined to the house; but on the 
lawn, which is too much limited by the boundary fence, there 
are a number of flower-beds put down at random, without any 
obvious leading principle. The grounds on one side of the bot- 
tom in which the house stands rise steeply, and are planted in 
the style of a park terminating in massive woods; on the other 
side they rise, and are laid out as pleasure-ground, so contrived 
as to conceal the kitchen-garden, stables, and dog-kennels. 
There is a fine vista from the window of the study up this last 
steep slope; terminating in a small temple, with an intervening 
fountain, which constitutes the finest scene in the pleasure- 
ground. On the top of the hill is a well of great depth, from 
which the water is raised by means of a steam-engine of four- 
horse power, to a reservoir, from which the whole place is sup- 
plied. One pipe surrounds the house; and has, at different 
distances, branches to which leathern hose can be attached, by 
which water can be conveyed to the distance of 150 ft., either 
for the purpose of extinguishing fire in the house, or watering 

LL 2 


472 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats. 


the beds on the lawn. Mr. Saunders applied it to the latter 
purpose in our presence; and we must say, that, independently 
of its use, it is even entertaining as an exhibition. 

The kitchen-garden has been neglected ; but it is now under 
a system of renovation by Mr. Saunders; who, judging from his 
acquirements and ideas, we have no doubt, will make it what it 
ought to be. ‘There are several pineries, vineries, peach-houses, 
pits, and other conveniences; and a good gardener’s house, 
though rather low and damp. Mr. Saunders has discovered an 
excellent loamy soil for pines in the sheep pastures ; and also, in 
one of the fox-covers, a bed of yellow gravel, like that at Ken- 
sington, both of immense value in a part of the country where 
formerly neither had been found. The park is varied by single 
trees and small groups, transplanted, under the direction of Mr. 
Page of Southampton, by Mr. Wallace, a former gardener. 
Some of these trees are of great age and size; and one walnut, 
which has a trunk 18 in. in diameter, is supposed to be above a 
century old. ‘They were not prepared in Sir Henry Steuart’s 
manner, but were taken up with as great a length of ramose 
roots as could be done: they are all doing well. The plantations 
on the rising grounds were also made by Mr. Page; and their 
effect promises to be excellent. In one of these plantations, a 
tower, with a turret, has been built for the purpose of watching 
the progress of the late system of incendiarism, which has greatly 
intimidated most of the nobility and gentry of this part of the 
country. To the same cause (viz., the dread of the spread of 
incendiarism) is to be assigned the establishment of the steam- 
engine, the well, the reservoir, and the system of delivery-pipes 
. round the house. 

The dog-kennels are on the top of a hill, adjoining the well 
and steam-engine, and consist of three circular lodging-rooms ; 
with a feeding-house at one end, and the huntsman’s house at the 
other. All the buildings are thatched; and the lodging-rooms have 
ventilators in the summits of their conical roofs, and a circular 
bedstead in the centre of each room, and occupying the greater 
portion of it, for the dogs. ‘These bedsteads, when we saw them, 
were covered with rye straw; the beds fold up in the centre like 
a lady’s reticule, to admit of their being cleaned beneath. The 
cribs for retaining the straw are covered with tin, to prevent the 
dogs from gnawing them; and the whole bedstead is painted of 
a stone colour. ‘The floors of these lodging-rooms are paved 
with brick, as are the square courtyards in the centre of which 
they stand. These yards are washed with water from a cock in 
one corner of each, even as often (as the huntsman, Mr. Burton, 
informed us) as twenty times in one day. Near the cock there 
is a slate cistern, from which the dogs drink. In one house were 
old hounds; and, in the other two, young ones, the males and 


State of Gardening in Part of France. 473 


females of the latter being kept separate. The feeding-house is 
separated from the lodging-houses by a house for showing 
hounds; and it has a trough, in which the food (a mixture Gh 
coarse porridge and minced horseflesh made into soup) is given 
to the hounds. The feeding-house, which is under the same 
roof as the show-house, has a small yard. The boiling-house 
is at a short distance, and contains a cistern of water, a large 
boiler, and places for mincing the horseflesh and making the 
porridge. On the whole, we could not help noticing the coin- 
cidence, in many points, between this plan for a dog-kennel and 
that given in our Encyc. of Cottage, Farm, and Villa Architec- 
ture, §1945. ‘The situations of both are on an eminence; in 
both the boundary fence is an open railing, through which the 
dogs, agreeably to Somerville’s directions, can look over an 
extensive prospect; in both are contrivances for frequently 
washing the courtyards with water; and in both is a show- 
house. Our design (fig. 78.) we certainly consider handsomer 


5 ii 
18 oe <i —_ 


tf i tual ty Ce 


than that at Tidworth, though not of more than equal merit in 
respect to plan. 

The stables form a quadrangle; the exterior of which is in 
sublimely bad taste, it being in horizontal panels, in imitation of 
a chest of drawers on a large scale. The interior is spacious and 
well ventilated, but it contains nothing particular in regard to plan. 

On the whole, we were much pleased with this place ; though, 
like Tottenham Park, it is deficient in several points of high 
keeping: for example, there were deep edgings to the walks, 
and dug beds, and much too narrow turf verges to the walks, in 


the shrubbery. 


—— 


vail all ie 


iat | 


fils 


(To be continued.) 


Art. II. Notices of the State of Gardening in Part of France, as 
observed in a recent Excursion in that Country. By Mr. GrorcE 
CHARLWOOD, Seedsman, Covent Garden. 


Ir the following observations, arising out of a recent excursion - 


to France, are available to the general purposes of your Maga- 
L a 3 


474 State of Gardening in France : — 


zine, they are very much at your service. I have merely to 
premise, that I did not proceed to France for the purpose of 
comparing the state of horticulture in that country with its state 
in our own; but on my general business, which is materially 
connected with the intercourse and interchange of our respective 
productions in that department. 

Landing at Calais, late at night, I was not much prepossessed 
in favour of the French customs by the immediate appearance, 
on board the vessel, of an armed police, and the customary 
examination of passports, &c., by the authorities, surrounded by 
military. As no difficulty occurred, we were soon conducted to 
a hotel (Quilliac’s), where, to our great satisfaction, we found 
every thing necessary to our comfort and convenience. arly 
in the morning, I proceeded to take a view of the immediate 
neighbourhood, but could ‘not observe anything worthy of 
notice. ‘The town being fortified, it required some time to 
escape from the embarrassment of drawbridges, moats, &c.; 
and, after all, little but a general level presented itself; the 
country in the immediate neighbourhood of Calais being a con-~ 
tinued series of marshy land for some miles round. As the 
town itself is very limited in its population and extent, the pro- 
duction of the vegetables, fruit, &c., immediately necessary to 
the support of the inhabitants does not require the appropriation 
of any great extent of surface; consequently, but little land is 
occupied in their cultivation; and, as it is quite customary for 
those cultivators who reside at some distance to bring their pro- 
duce to the market, I had not an opportunity of observing in 
what degree, and with what kinds of articles, it is supplied. 

Proceeding from Calais, in the evening, towards Amiens, I could 
not make any farther remarks. My progress by the ordinary 
diligence was not very expeditious; certainly not more than 
five miles an hour. ‘The country through which I passed, for 
about ten miles after leaving Calais, is altogether open and 
arable ; not a hedge or a single apparent division of the fields is 
to be observed for miles, except some few trees on the roadside, 
with small detached portions of woodland in the distance. The 
whole appears to be divided into many small farms; the com- 
partments or divisions of the general surface being apparently 
the only guide to the different occupiers, who are all more or 
less engaged immediately in the active operations and manual 
labours required for the cultivation of their respective properties. 
The farm implements, such as ploughs, harrows, &c., are ex- 
tremely simple; and, to me, they appeared rude, when compared 
with the better made articles of the same kind in use in the more 
improved districts of England. Nearly the whole surface of the 
land is under plough or spade culture; and there is little waste 


ee 


Calais to Amiens. 475 


or unemployed ground, the fields being continued to the very 
edges of the road. 

The system of culture is, apparently, determined by the 
quantity of land occupied by the respective individuals; but, 
generally speaking, the breadths are limited, when compared with 
the extent of the same articles observable on the open downs 
of Sussex and Cambridgeshire. The crops appeared to be later, 
in relation to the season (early in May), than with us: of wheat 
and rye, the winter varieties were only apparent; and it was the 
season for sowing oats and barley. Beans and peas, which, with 
us, are extensively and profitably cultivated, are, in this part of 
France, grown only in detached portions and limited quantities. 
A few patches of turnip, or colza (Brassica campéstris oleifera 
Dec.: see Lincyc. of Agr., 2d edit., § 60. 76.), a species of rape, 
here in extensive use, are the only crops observable at this 
season. Women are generally employed in weeding and other 
farm occupations, which they do not seem to consider as at all 
imposing extraordinary labour. ‘The whole system bespeaks, 
apparently, an indifference and an easy independence: that 
which cannot be done to-day, may be finished to-morrow; the 
cultivators depending, I presume, on the more general certainty 
of their climate, and being, probably, also much influenced by 
the buoyancy and elasticity of their general temperament, which 
indicates the absence of those careful and all-absorbing con- 
siderations which pervade more or less all classes, more espe- 
cially the agricultural one, in England. 

After leaving the marshes immediately around Calais, the soil 
shows itself to be a strong, heavy, retentive clay, requiring much 
labour and time to reduce it to a state of culture. At the dis- 
tance of twenty miles, it becomes more loamy, with an occasional 
appearance of the intermixture of chalk, resembling the soil of 
some parts of Kent and Sussex. This gives evidence of its 
superior fitness for the purposes of agriculture; and the state 
of the crops, which are here more luxuriant, and decidedly 
superior, confirm this supposition. Through a distance of 
thirty miles, I did not observe the residence of one respectable 
farmer or cultivator, such as are to be seen in the rural districts 
of England; nevertheless the farmers are generally proprietors, 
and in independent circumstances. From my own observation, 
I should not consider that the condition of the French cultivators 
could be at all enviable; but I am assured by some most 
respectable residents, that they are all more or less in comfort- 
able circumstances; their condition, in this respect, arising from 
the absence of direct taxation, and the non-existence of tithes 
or any system of poor laws. As you proceed towards Paris, 
the soil evidently keeps improving; but there was not any ap- 


pearance of what may be considered horticultural crops, except 
; LL 4& 


476 State of Gardening in France : — Amiens. 


some preparations for planting potatoes, although spade culture 
appeared to be very generally adopted. 

The ancient town of Amiens is the centre of an extensive 
agricultural district. ‘The botanic garden here is small, and 
apparently not very well supported. Its situation is by no 
means a fit one, as it is immediately surrounded by the manu- 
factories of the neighbourhood; and the soil is apparently in- 
different and exhausted. ‘The plants are arranged, according to 
the Linnzan system, in compartments; and a careful attention 
is paid to their divisions into their respective classes, which are 
carefully indicated by their names, and not, as is generally done 
with us, by numbers, which it requires a reference to the cata- 
logue of the collection to explain. 

As I happened to be at Amiens on the market day (Saturday), 
I took the opportunity of devoting the morning to the inspection 
of the markets for vegetables and flowers. I was certainly much 
disappointed at the display, which was anything but abundant. 
The advantages of the climate are not, apparently, taken advan- 
tage of by the cultivators, or they might certainly boast (in May) 
of many articles which I did not observe. All I could find 
were a few cabbage lettuces, some long white or Naples radishes, 
and a small quantity of asparagus; which naturally surprised 
me, as I had only a few days before left the environs of Covent 
Garden Market, in which all these articles, with many others 
not to be found here, were to be had in the greatest abundance. 
I enquired if there was any particular reason for this deficiency, 
and could not learn that either the season was later or the sup- 
plies less than usual. ‘The weather had been, as with us at the 
same period, warm and genial, and the winter had also been 
mild and free from frost. I could not spare the time necessary 
for an investigation of the causes of the apparent deficiency of 
supply, by examining the gardens and systems of culture of the 
gardeners, most of whom live at a short distance from Amiens. 

As there are, however, some florists’ gardens within the limits 
of the city, I visited them. The spaces of ground which they 
occupy are generally small; seldom exceeding a French arpent, 
a quantity nearly equal to the English acre. As a general taste 
for flowers prevails in Amiens and its neighbourhood, the florist- 
gardeners meet with encouragement, and, consequently, are suc- 
cessful in their business, and evince a considerable degree of 
taste in it. Showy and fragrant plants are most in demand, 
and the cultivators necessarily confine themselves to these, filling 
up their space by forcing (though very slightly) melons for the 
market. ‘The plants usually cultivated are free-blooming pelar- 
goniums, oleanders, dwarf standard roses, Cacteze (especially the 
Céreus phyllanthoides and speciosissimus), and others. - These 
are more particularly considered as plantes. d’agrémens, rather 


Planting of small Pleasure-Grounds. 477 


than such as are interesting for the botanical associations con- 
nected with them. ‘Those of the latter class are not, the cul- 
tivators say, at all to the taste of the people of a manufacturing 
town like Amiens. ‘The artificial aids to cultivation possessed 
by the florist-gardeners are but few: two or three small green- 
houses, a forcing-stove, some few pits for the preservation of 
plants during the winter, with a few hand-glasses, are all that 
they possess. 


(To be continued.) 


Art. III. On the improper Choice that is frequently made of Trees 
and Shrubs for furnishing small Portions of Pleasure-Grounds. 
By Mr. T. Rurcer. 


Tue results of your frequent calls at the nurseries and the 
suburban gardens of the metropolis, which are occasionally 
given in your Magazine, must, I conceive, prove highly ac- 
ceptable to the generality of your readers: at least, I find 
them to be at all times interesting; and as such I read them 
with much pleasure. They not only bring to remembrance 
former associations, on which the mind delights to dwell, but 
they also furnish me with the present state of many places 
which, during my youthful days, I was in the habit of visiting; 
and thus, while in retrospect I can sometimes but faintly trace 
their localities, they are again brought vividly to the “ mind’s 
eye.” At the same time, they revive and bring to recollection 
past scenes, which otherwise might have remained dormant for 
ever. I have frequently thought how delighted I should be to 
take a trip with you round the metropolis, and to visit gardens 
in this way; so that, while you might be marking with the eye 
of a critic the gradations of taste displayed, I might catch a few 
hints as they occasionally would be elicited. I know that I have 
no reason to indulge in thoughts of this kind; but, were such 
an unexpected circumstance to take place, I think I should be 
inclined to draw your attention to the improper choice that is 
frequently made of shrubs and trees for furnishing those small 
portions of pleasure-grounds which are so frequently to be seen 
round the metropolis. Upon a general principle, I think my 
ideas are correct upon the subject, and they are as follows: 
namely, that proportion should always be kept in view; or, in 
other words, that, in proportion to the size or quantity of ground 
to be laid out, so in proportion should the shrubs and trees be 
in point of size also; taking into consideration, at the time of 
planting, the figure they will present when arrived at a state of 
maturity. Perhaps there is scarcely a tree to be found which is 


478 Planting of small Pleasure-Grounds. 


more desirable to assist in embellishing a lawn of considerable 
extent than the cedar of Lebanon; but, placed, as it may fre- 
quently be seen, upon a grass plot of a few poles square, and 
sometimes even in the frontage of small villas, every thing like 
proportion is destroyed ; while scarcely any room is left for orna- 
mental shrubs; the variety of which, at the present day, is so 
great, and many of which are so very beautiful and appropriate 
for ornamenting villas of the class under consideration. 

If we descend lower in the scale of architectural erections, 
viz., to such as scarcely deserve the name of villas, continual 
mistakes present themselves in the choice made of trees and 
shrubs for embellishment: for instance, we may frequently see 
Scotch pines, or spruce firs, planted for screens to hide walls ; 
than which nothing can be less appropriate: a few laurels, or 
other evergreens of similar habits, would answer the purpose 
far better, and be more ornamental ; besides, as the cases are but 
few, in the immediate vicinity of the metropolis, where the pine 
and fir tribe will thrive, they should be the last kind of trees re- 
sorted to for such purposes; and, even were they to thrive well, 
they would soon grow so large as to be out of all proportion 
to the situations in which they are placed. 

Perhaps it is but seldom that professional persons are en- 
gaged in the laying out and planting of such gardens as those 
now under consideration, therefore animadversions upon the 
subject are not likely to be of much avail; but, if it were other- 
wise, many faults of the above description might be pointed out, 
as the result of bad taste or incorrect judgment; and such ob- 
servations might lead to a better mode of distributing trees and 
shrubs in accordance with good taste, as well as to an arrange- 
ment more likely to answer the purposes intended. 

In adverting to the country villa (the embellishing of which, 
when properly done, forms its principal feature of attraction), it 
may not be amiss to observe, that, in the operation of planting, 
it is very easy to slide into mistakes, by the introduction of such 
trees as may be favourites, but which may, at the same time, be 
completely at variance with everything like a fitness or adapta- 
tion for the situations given to them. Reflection, in cases of this 
kind, is therefore necessary; and the consideration should not be, 
what the tree is at the time of planting, or what it may be for 
seven years to come, but what it will be when arrived at maturity, 
as already hinted. Where high screening is necessary for the 
sake of privacy, which is frequently the case in the vicinity of 
London (as there, in many instances, a gentleman may be over- 
looked from the windows of a neighbouring villa), perhaps the 
pine and fir tribe may be advantageous ; as, being evergreens, 
the privacy produced by them will be permanent: but, where 
there is only room for a single row, neither the silyer nor spruce 


Shrubbery and Ornamental Planting. 479 


fir is well adapted to produce the desired effect ; as, being pyra- 
midal in their growth, there will always be vacancies towards 
the top. ‘The ramifications of the Scotch pine being of a dif- 
ferent character, as well as more picturesque, that tree will be 
found to be better adapted for such purposes. 

But where it is necessary for screening to be brought into 
immediate effect to the height of from 20 ft. to 40 feet, it will be 
difficult to get evergreens of any description to answer the pur- 
pose, however desirable it may be for them to do so. It will, 
therefore, be necessary, in such cases, to make use of the decidu- 
ous kinds ; and, by making a proper choice, with careful planting, 
they will be found to answer the purpose well during the summer 
season ; which, after all, is the time when their assistance is most 
wanted. A striking instance of this may now be seen at Theo- 
balds, near Cheshunt, at the residence of William Winefield, 
Esq. ‘This gentleman has spared no pains to effect a seclusion, 
by planting trees of the required height; and he has succeeded 
admirably. 

Shorigrove, 1834. 


Art. IV. Hints on Shrubbery and Ornamental Planting. 
By Cuartes Lawrence, Esq. 


As the season is fast approaching for making preparation for 
planting, I will perform my promise of sending you a few hints 
on shrubbery or ornamental planting, which experience and 
observation have suggested to me. We planters find out our 
errors too late, in most instances, to derive much personal advan- 
tage from the discovery; and it is to be regretted that those who 
watch the progress and effect of plantations should be deterred 
from recording their experience, by any indisposition to expose 
their own blunders, or by the notion that they would only be 
pointing out those errors which others had discovered. ‘Though 
experienced artists may be disposed to smile at your simplicity, 
first in making mistakes, and then in recording them, the more 
just view of the matter seems to be, that a host of young aspirants 
may, by a timely warning, be saved from the commission of 
similar faults; and that the * gardenesque” (a useful word, by 
the way, of which I rather think you are the inventor) would 
be, by such means, continually approximating to perfection. _ 

As many of the general observations in my last letter to you 
on planting (see p. 26.) are applicable to the subject now under 
consideration, I shall not repeat them here; but shall proceed 
to point out, in the first place, the more obvious defects in orna- 
mental plantations, and then suggest such considerations for their 
original formation as, I am satisfied, will contribute greatly te 


480 Shrubbery and Ornamental Planting. 


their pleasing effect at maturity. I must remind the young 
planter that “ there are no gains without pains ;” and that, in 
all operations, more especially in planting, due deliberation, a 
little patient industry, and the exercise of judgment, will event- 
ually insure the saving both of money and of time, and will 
prevent great, and often irreparable, disappointments. 

The prevailing errors, in boundary and internal ornamental 
plantations, appear to me to be :—Ist, An injudicious selection of 
trees with reference to the various ends the planter may be sup- 
posed to have had in view. 2dly, ‘The positions of the various 
trees and shrubs, without reference to their relative character of 
growth, whether producing flowers or not, or whether evergreen 
or deciduous, and to various other important particulars: for 
how often do we see plantations, the state of which it seems im- 
possible to account for on any other supposition, than that the 
planter must have ordered the trees by the waggon-load, and 
left the arrangement of them to a parcel of mere labourers ! 
3dly, The distance of the trees from each other; for trees are 
usually planted so closely, that they soon run together in a mass; 
and, when the necessity of thinning at length becomes too obvi- 
ous to escape notice, and the process is commenced, it is found 
that the removal of every shrub leaves a dismal gap; the foliage 
of the under branches of all its neighbours having been entirely 
destroyed by the want of sun and air. This deformity is, of 
course, not to be endured: the thinning is stopped; and, after a 
few more years, the only remedy is found to be an almost entire 
renewal of the plantation ; at a period when, under proper ma- 
nagement, it could have been in the greatest perfection. ‘Then 
the proprietor learns the lesson which I wish to impress on the 
young planter; namely, that, for want of a little thought, and a 
few hours’ attention at starting, he may eventually lose years in 
attaining his end; if, indeed, he ever attain it at all. 

I will now offer you a few suggestions as to the means of 
avoiding the evils I have detailed; and, in order to make myself 
intelligible, I will assume an object; and no one ought to plant 
a single tree in a pleasure-ground without one. I will assume 
the object to be, shelter from the north and east winds, or to hide 
buildings, and the like. First, consider whether an external fence 
be required; and, if so, whether it will be visible from any ap- 
proach, or other part of the pleasure-grounds. In this case the 
fence should be of holly or furze; the latter I have heretofore 
recommended as very ornamental. (VIII. 678.) Farther experi- 
ence of furze fences induces me to recommend planting two rows 
at 6 ft. distance. Furze is apt to become hollow at the bottom ; 
and, as it shoots very freely when cut off close to the ground, 
if twe rows be planted, one may be cut off every five or six 
years, leaying the other as a fence. I have also tried laying 


Shrubbery and Ornamental Planting. 481 


furze in the same manner as quicksets, and find it answer per- 
fectly, if carefully done. If your depth of ground should not 
exceed twenty yards, the first set of trees from the fence should 
consist of the pine and fir tribe; and not, as we commonly see, 
of the fastest-growing deciduous trees, which answer neither of 
the purposes required during six months of the year, when it is 
of the most importance that they should do so. I would never 
plant two of the same species, unless the line were very extensive ; 
but would let the plantation assume, as much as possible, a scien- 
tific as well as an ornamental character. I can conceive no back- 
ground more beautiful and interesting than one formed by a 
collection of the numerous and splendid species of pines and 
firs; displaying, as they do, such an infinite variety of tints, 
foliage, and cones. ‘These should be planted 8 ft. or even 10 ft. 
from the fence, and 20 ft. apart. If the depth of ground be 
thirty yards, 1 would recommend a selection of the most orna- 
mental forest trees to be planted at least 30 ft. behind the firs, 
and at 20 ft. apart; every other one of which must eventually 
be removed. At 20ft. in advance of the firs, plant deciduous 
flowering trees or shrubs, each forming the apex of a triangle, 
having two of the pines or firs for its base. Here, again, if the 
line be extensive, the shrubs should be arranged in classes ; 
placing together the numerous and ornamental species of the 
genera Crate ‘cus, Méspilus, Pyrus, C¥tisus, Syringa, &c. &e. 
For this purpose, those varieties which do not ordinarily attain 
a height of at least 12 ft. would be inadmissible. In advance 
of these, plant evergreen flowering shrubs at 10 ft. apart. The 
class of shrubs suitable for this situation is comparatively limited ; 
and amongst those selected will occur individuals varying con- 
siderably in the space they occupy at maturity. ‘The Portugal 
and common laurel, for example, attain a much larger size than 
most other common shrubs. All the smaller growths in this 
class, therefore, should be planted directly opposite the deciduous 
shrubs, and 10 ft. in advance of them ; and those of larger growth 
should be placed in the intervals angled with the shrubs behind, 
and 5 ft. in arrear of the line of the smaller growths of the same 
class. Should the plantation form the margin of a lawn, or of 
that portion of the approach to the house which is within the 
dressed pleasure-ground, a space of from 15 ft. to 20 ft. may be 
left in front of the shrubs for flowers. These should also be 
disposed with reference to the height they attain, keeping the 
highest growers nearest to the plantation. Classification should 
also be attended to in this case, if the gardener or his master 
have sufficient knowledge of flowers; if they have not, your 
Hortus Britannicus will supply all the necessary particulars. I 
am glad to see the principle so essential to the producing of a 
striking effect in garden scenery; viz., of planting the different 


482 Shrubbery and Ornamental Planting. 


flowers in masses, instead of frittering away the effect by spot- 
ting individuals over the entire garden, becoming more generally 
appreciated i in every successive season. 

If the plot of ground to be planted be a circle, precisely the 
same course may be adopted in circles, instead of lines; but some 
judgment must be exercised, in this case, in placing the plants 
with reference to aspect, as some thrive best towards the sun, 
and others in the shade. In any intermediate form, the same 
principles may be observed. Experienced planters will see that 
this will be the mere skeleton of a plantation for some-years to 
come; but my principle is, that the proper position of every tree, 
with reference to the space it will occupy at maturity, should be 
first determined ; the intervals may then be filled up, according 
to the means and taste of the planter, to produce immediate 
effect; bearing in mind, however, that every tree or shrub 
employed for this purpose is destined to ultimate removal or 
destruction, and must on no account be permitted to come in con- 
tact with those permanently located, which will demand annual 
attention. ‘The intervals may be filled up between the fence 
and the forest trees, if any be planted, between these and the 
pines and firs, and between the latter and the flowering shrubs, 
with larch, ash, birch, &c.: which, when cut out, will be useful 
for fencing. ‘These may be planted not less than 8 ft. or 10 ft. 
apart, to come out at from twelve to twenty years’ growth, ac- 
cording as the progress of the permanent trees may require ; and 
the spaces between the latter may, if thought too great, be again 
filled up with birch, hazel, and other woods useful for garden 
purposes and firing, as soon as the larch, &c., require room. 
The spaces between the deciduous flowering shrubs, between 
these and the evergreen flowering shrubs, and between the 
latter and the flowers, should be filled up with plants of the 
same description ; to be transplanted or cut up when their neigh- 
bours, destined to remain, require it. If expense be not an 
object, ornament may be considered, rather than utility, in filling 
up the intervals throughout; if the planter has nerve enough 
to sacrifice a fine shrub, in due season, as readily as an ash or a 
larch. 

There is a certain description of persons who lay claim to 
much taste in these matters ; and who, in discussing the mode 
of laying out lawns, or in criticising those which exist, are 
eternally canting about nature, and producing natural effects. 
These persons will at once proscribe my views as being in shocking 
bad taste, horridly formal and artificial; but they all not, or 
cannot, see the obvious distinctions ian a waste, a forest, a 
park, and a lawn. I am confining myself exclusively to the 
latter, with reference to which it is sheer nonsense to talk about 
imitating nature. No one practically suffers nature to set her 


Shrubbery and Ornamental Planting. 483 


foot on a lawn, if I may be allowed the expression. The grand 
source of anxiety and expense is the preventing her from esta- 
blishing any of her spontaneous productions, from the smallest 
weed to the unpruned luxuriance of the tree. Every part of a 
lawn is formal and artificial, more or less. Nature produces 
no gravel walks; no turf ‘ shaven with the scythe and levelled 
by the roller;” no well-raked beds; no high keeping, as it is 
called ; and she never produced one tithe of the trees and shrubs 
which are found in every pleasure-ground, in one locality, nor 
even in one quarter of the globe. The essential characters of 
a lawn are, in fact, artifice and order. ‘Those who are acquainted 
with the various growths and characters of the classes of trees 
and shrubs I have recommended, will see at once that such a 
shrubbery, at maturity, would be full of variety and interest, 
though certainly very unlike the unaided efforts of nature. 

The main points to be attended to, in all ornamental planting, 
are:—first, to determine the position of every tree, with reference 
to its character, that is calculated to produce the effect you re- 
quire at maturity ; secondly, that ample space is allowed to each 
to arrive at perfection without touching, and thereby injuring 
its neighbour; thirdly, to fill up the spaces with trees, which are 
to be removed at various periods of their growth, and in time 
to allow the full influence of sun and air all around those which 
aretoremain. Every plant will then assume its natural character 
of growth, and will be covered on all sides with foliage. Instead 
of having, as in ordinary cases, one unbroken line formed of a 
mass of confused foliage, produced by every plant exerting itself 
to push forth its puny branches into free air and light, all being 
dark and dismal within, you will, on the plan suggested, have 
no line at all; but a series of distinct individuals assuming every 
variety of character, all of which will be seen in perfection, in 
passing, presenting themselves immediately behind the intervals 
between those in the rank before them. 

When plantations are laid out without any system, even if 
they are properly thinned from time to time, the planter will 
find it necessary to remove many trees, which he would desire 
to retain in preference to others of less beauty and interest, on 
account of their relative position, which is very embarrassing. 
I thought of adding lists of trees which I should recommend as 
the subjects of the arrangement I have proposed, as this would 
greatly facilitate the operations of those who are not familiar 
with the names and characters of those to be found in the superior 
nurseries ; but, as I could only do this to a limited extent, I hope 
some of your correspondents in the trade will furnish lists, in 
each class of plants I have named, in a future Magazine, by 
way of supplement to this communication. 

Cirencester, August, 1834. 


48 4 Design for laying out a Kitchen-Garden. 


Siete ISAS Aa | lett tell -\“1s 1-1: 


(a) ir e 7 Sa 8) 


ore) 


‘ 


agh-1-t-1-[st1 151-2 Rare 
Bren gate 
q’g 9749 48 Sees 
gtk 


Jb! 


pO Lo wy 


uy 
HOR EDE Te OE OE Oa OE oer 


tel: 


4 
3) 
A 


Lo 
¥ 
=| 


4 


tL 


uy 


| 


Bi I-Reaisi-fsI=hlateo tee lls 


TI 


ee aS Sees FS 8 aw so odgagO Poa GQasvuud 


ron 


lo bo by lo 
La lo 


WW lg ® iD 
V5) 
Le 


1@ O08 COB Pe 


AIRY Pela] 1S 11S SITS tt 
CUP og 
-w4-D Bagcoos 


t} 
8 
£ 


8 
8 
i] 
2 
° 
S 
t) 
se 
a 


oS Ooo2XVGe0 TOVO0% dae 


eG) 
ly Lote Lo 
4 1p Lay 


le 
\Q: 


1s paytase 
soi! 


ra 


aae¥ 


g 
© 
8 
(} 
lo 
\) 
is) 
1° 
t) 
u 
© 
° 
° 


K 
a 
ei 
4 


oe S@® O20 € Be HM & oD 


@ AIS 86 AQ0'0 


ooo ata oa 0 
o@ao00aaco 


oO Mas-& Om ah Om oo we @oq@m? O0FHBTS8 Oose 


3 
= 
Fier 


ite 5 o| fa : ee 
ris ; : ce: 
tT o 1 3) cs] }2 2 9 1 gS oe 
a° e 2) Io @ gi 
had 1|: ‘Is : zed 
r z 
ug eH 
ise a a 
res at 
— 435 

$ fot 
ifs a4 
se Sot 
ee oRe 
ref 254 


EEHERPER 


iC 


1-ECE PROF 


= 


Sa a 


_ 
i 
_ 
or 
= 
w 


14 7) 


14 14 -|= 


Fg SSSSSSSSSSSS FS Pa a ee SSL SS 
5 5 il 
Qin 
50 100 Feet é : 
epi ttotaleltrlatatw le adm tad = et brbsiertoteidopen wef etedelelt birte beta bibesbels teriotwiebal stabat 1. a1 —} al) «loietelatat at ot 
1, Slips. 2, Culinary departments. 3, Forcing department. 4, Frame ground. 5, For 
compost, mixing dung, &c. 6, Water tanks. 7, Pine-stoves. 8, Vineries. 9, Small 
stoves. 10, Peach-houses. 11, Cherry-houses. 12, Fig-houses, or for other purposes. 
13, Pine or melon pits. 14, Mushroom.sheds, tool-house, &c. 15, Melon and cucumber 
ranges. 16, Cucumber ridge; early carrots, &c. under hoops. 17, Dwarf walls for training 
fruit trees, or for tomatoes. 18, Gardener’s house. 19, Fruit and onion rooms, with 


under-gardener’s lodging-room, and seed-room over. 


Wooden Rustic-work as Garden Ornaments. 485 


Art. V. A Series of Designs for laying out Kitchen-Gardens. By 
Mr. T, Rutcer. Design 5., Containing nearly Three Acres within 
the Walls, and an Acre and a Quarter in the Slips. 


For cases where a south entrance is not attainable, the fore- 
going plan (fig. 79.) gives the entrances at the east and west 
sides; either of which, or both, may be adopted. The garden 
has two cross walls, with a walk wide enough for a carriage 
drive through the middle, with room allowed, at the southern 
extremity, for the carriage to turn. This garden comprises 
something more than two acres and three quarters within the 
walls, including the forcing department; and the slips give about 
an acre and a quarter more. In the frame ground, dwarf walls 
are introduced, for the purpose of training young fruit trees for: 
occasional removal to the inner walls when wanted. These walls 
will be found useful to gardeners who like to commence with 
the training of their own trees, or they may be used for toma- 
toes, &c. 

Shortgrove, Essex, 1834. 


Art. VI. On Wooden Rustic-work as Garden Ornaments. 

By SELIM. 

Tuovueu I agree in the opinion you express in the Encyclo- 
pedia of Architecture (p. 986.), respecting wooden rustic-work 
as a garden ornament, I think-there are situations in which it 
has a good effect ; and those who can afford nothing more ex- 
pensive, may frequently give interest to a small garden by a few 
embellishments of this description. But, of course, I suppose 
them to be executed in good taste, and to be suited only to the 
simple gardens of cottages and small villas. ‘They have cer- 
tainly a very bad effect when introduced near a mansion which 
has any pretensions to magnificence; and I remember an in- 
stance of this kind at Blenheim. When I saw that princely 
residence, some years ago, a thatched rustic temple stood in a 
flower-garden, which had been recently formed, close to the 
house. The temple was.a conspicuous object from the windows 
of some of the principal apartments; and, as it could not har- 
monise with any of the grand objects around it, it looked ridi- 
culous, and produced a very disagreeable effect. Inthe grounds 
of a palace like Blenheim, rustic-work can only be in good taste 
when placed in a distant part of the park: but, around a cot- 
tage or villa, it forms a good substitute for the more costly orna- 
ments, such as statues, urns, and terraces, which are the proper 
embellishments of an architectural mansion. One advantage of 
wooden rustic-work is, that it can be adapted to a great variety 
of purposes. Thus, very beautiful and even architectural tem- 

Vou, X.— No, 55. MM 


486 Wooden Rustic-wotk ~ — : 


ples may be formed of unbarked wood. Ornamental doors, 
every description of garden seats and flower-baskets, and vases 
of very elegant forms, may be composed of the same material. 
Shady walks, also, having the pleasing gloom and enriched 
effect of a Gothic cloister, may be made of wooden rustic-work 5. 
indeed, there is scarcely any kind of garden ornament to which 
it may not be adapted. I allude more particularly to what I 
call wood mosaic, which is, I believe, rather a modern invention. 
It is formed of split sticks, of various lengths and sizes, and. 
having bark of different colours. The pieces are nailed to any 
flat surface of wood, and very beautiful and elaborate patterns 
may be produced by arranging the pieces according to their sizes. 
and the various colours of the bark. Elegant garden seats, and 
vases of almost any shape, may be covered with this kind of 
mosaic work: but, as it is not durable when constantly exposed 
to the weather, it is most suitable for the inside of summer- 
houses and garden temples. In such situations, the richest 
specimens might be introduced; and, if varnished over, they 
would last for a number of years. ‘There are some handsome 
and rather costly specimens of this kind of ornament in the 
flower-garden at Bagshot Park, made, I believe, under the 
direction of the intelligent gardener there. 

I greatly admired the garden entrance at Bagshot, which is a 
sort of Gothic cloister of trelliswork overhung with shrubs; 
but I did not observe any specimens of very elaborate workman- 
ship, except some flower-baskets, and the inside of a summer- 
house, in which were borders of round pieces of wood cut across 
the grain and varnished. ‘The effect was very ornamental, and 
the pieces of wood had almost the appearance of large agates. 
The admirers of moss houses may see a beautiful specimen of 
this kind of work in one of the summer-houses at Bagshot. 
The various shades of moss are arranged in stripes and panels 
against the walls, in a manner much superior to anything of the 
kind that I had before seen. ‘There is here none of that ragged 
looseness usually seen in moss-work ; and it has the rich effect 
of uncut velvet, or rug-work, with a close even surface, on 
which birds can make no impression. It appeared to me to 
have been pressed into small masses, and built up like bricks. 
Probably some sort of cement is mixed with the moss. It forms 
a beautiful lining for a garden temple; and, if Mr. Toward, the 
gardener, is the inventor of this kind of moss-work, it does great 
credit to his taste and ingenuity. [Mr. Toward has kindly sent 
us a view, with working drawings and descriptions, of this moss- 
house, which we shall give in our next. ] 

-But I am wandering from my purpose in troubling you with 
this paper, which is to show how an embellished effect may be 
given to a small garden by the use of ornaments of wooden rustic; 


as Garden Ornaments. 487 


work; and, as I shall express my meaning most plainly by an 
example, I will briefly state the effect of a few ornaments of this 
kind which I have placed in my own garden. The garden con- 
sists of only twelve beds, of a moderate size, on nearly a level 
surface of turf. The design of the beds is regular; and there 
are broad spaces of turf between them. On two sides of the 
garden are some large trees and thick shrubberies; the house is 
on another side; and, where the fourth side joins, a small piece 
of half-kept ground, a fine old walnut tree, a large holly, some 
. box trees, junipers, laurels, and other shrubs, are grouped upon 
the turf, forming a sort of half screen, through which you see 
(over the rough ground) the trees and shrubs which. bound the 
premises. ‘The whole is on a very small scale; but as the ends 
of the walks are concealed, and a little intricacy is created by 
the groups of shrubs, it appears from the house to be more 
extensive than it is. When the garden was completed, a some- 
thing seemed wanting to give it a picturesque effect. I thought 
it not half so pretty as it was in the wilderness state in which I 
found it when I came to the house, after it had been neglected 
for ten or twelve years, during which time the trees had actually 
smothered the place, the garden flowers had grown wild, and 
every thing was in a condition of ‘ most admired disorder.” 
Now the trees were thinned out, and the whole reduced to exact 
order, the result was an effect of neatness and prettiness, which 
looked bald and uninteresting after the picturesque charm of its 
former wildness. In short,-it wanted the addition of some kind 
of ornament to give it a picturesque effect. When I was con- 
sidering how to produce this effect, a manufactory of earthen 
garden vases in the neighbourhood suggested the ambitious idea 
of urns and pedestals; but they were too expensive and much 
too grand for a cottage garden. As large flints could be easily 
procured, I thought of doing something with them; but I could 
find no proper place for anything in the way of rockwork, which, 
however well executed, generally looks ridiculous on a tame 
even surface. There was nothing to be done, therefore, but in 
the wooden rustic way; and I began the work of embellishment 
by attaching a small rustic seat (fg. 80.) to the trunk of the 
old walnut tree, which stands on a hillock at one corner of the 
ground, whence you look upon the flower-beds. When the 
seat was finishing, and I sat down to observe the general effect 
of the little scene before it, I found, to my horror, that, besides 
seeing what I wished to see, the flowers, and the shrubs around 
them, an unlucky bend in a walk opposite let in a full view of 
an ill-looking office, which I thought I had effectually concealed ; 
in short, that the termination of the miniature landscape was 
the ash-pit. What was to be done now? I could not find in 


my heart to take down the seat, which, with very little Assist= 
Se SE Mae 


488 Wooden Rustic-work as Garden Ornaments. 


ance, was the work of my own hands; and I was, of course, 
proud of it as a specimen of my industry, if not of my taste. I 
could have altered the turn of the walk, and have planted out 
the nuisance; but I wanted an immediate remedy, and the walk 
Was most convenient in its present state. I therefore put up a 
rustic screen and doorway across the walk, which has con- 
tributed greatly towards the effect I wished to produce; and 
which, seen from the seat before mentioned, partly overrun with 
ivy, and partly concealed by shrubs, may be supposed the en- 
trance to a summer-house or hermitage. Having succeeded 
thus far, a small worn-out barrel, which was useless for any 
other purpose, suggested the idea that half of it, covered with 
wood mosaic work, would make a pretty flower-basket ; and, as 
it stands on a tripod, backed by a large shrub, and filled with 
pelargoniums, Lophospérmum erubéscens, Maurandya Barclay- 
dua, and moneywort (Lysimachia Nummularia), hanging in 
graceful festoons over the sides, it has certainly an ornamental 
effect. (jig. 81.) ‘To these little embellishments I added a 
common movable seat, and a basketwork of unpeeled hazel 
rods reund the centre flower-beds; and thus, with no other 
materials than such as were procured from the wood-stack, and 
from my neighbour the woodcutter (a man very learned in the 
twisting and splitting of wood), I have contrived to give my 
garden as much ornament as its size will allow, and to sub- 
stitute for its former tameness a picturesque and decorated ap- 
pearance. My aim has been to effect this without having too 
much ornament, and to have nothing that forces itself on the 


Vases as Receptacles for Plants. 489 


attention. A striking object 
in a garden should be some- 
thing handsome and costly. 
Rustic-work, at best, is but 
frail and temporary, and should 
not be obtrusive. I do not, 
however, object much to its 
frailness, because, as it costs 
little, the renewal is a cheap 
source of amusement, and a 
fresh exercise of the invention. 
ges I am sensible that this paper 
a2" will be considered trifling by 
many of your readers; but it 
may be useful to some who 
are situated as I am; to those 
who are fond of gardening in 
asmall way, who would like to 
have a pretty garden, and who 
are not overburthened with 
that necessary evil, money. 
If you think that such persons 
may take a hint or two from 
my rambling details, perhaps 
=— you will give them a place in 
= a eee the Magazine. 
The doorway of which I have spoken was made by a car- 
penter, and it certainly is the most perfect and satisfactory of 
| my rustic ornaments. ‘The seat and the flower-basket were 
~aade by myself and a common labourer who works here. All 
the wood has the bark on. The basket (4g. 81.) is black birch 
and hazel; the top, which projects considerably, is of maple; 
thin slabs of that wood having been sawed off a rough log. It 
is most tedious work, and requires a great deal of patience and 
ingenuity. I let the creepers in the basket grow as they like; 
and they last year took very elegant forms. ‘The moneywort 
reached the ground, and would have taken root there, had [ 
permitted it. 
January 23. 1834. 


——_- 


Art. VII. On the Employment of Vases as Receptacles for Plants in 
Town Gardens; with some Remarks on their Use in Garden Scenery 
in the Country. By the ConpucTor. 


PassIneG one day lately Mr. Austin’s museum of works in 


rtificial stone in the New Road, London, we were much struck 
MM 3 ; 


490 Vases as Receptacles 


with the effect produced by the vase fig. 82. planted with a 
group of flowers. The flowers were of the commonest kinds. In 
the centre of the group were purple georginas; around these 
nasturtiums with their bright orange 
flowers, white phloxes, and migno- 
y, nette; and, hanging over the rim of 
the vase, were long slender stolones 
of moneywort. ‘The general effect 
was exceedingly good; and it imme- 
diately occurred to us to recommend 
= gu this kind of ornament for gardens, 
EEE AES, especially for those of the town. 
Zl Nothing, however, ought to be recom- 
mended without assigning reasons for 
doing so. Now, there are several 
reasons for recommending elevated 
vases as receptacles for flowers, in 
order that they may form ornaments 
for gardens in confined situations ; and 
there are also reasons for recommend- 
ing vases not to be filled with flowers 
for gardens in the country. We shall 
take these reasons in the order of their 
importance. 

In the first place, town gardens, by 
which we mean Chiefly the front gardens of street houses, are 
generally so confined by walls, that no herbaceous plant will 
thrive i in them longer than one season. The cause is to be found 
in the want of air, ie light, and of fresh soil. The soil, indeed, 
gets sodden by moisture and want of drainage to such a degree, 


83 
NEO): 


Sor 
84 


Rs &) > 


qtr 


Arye 
VHJINN 


: Plants in Town Gardens. 491 


that no stirring or manuring will do it 


AISSSNMy much good; and, therefore, if fine flowers 
BRS ey 


are expected to grow in such gardens, the 
soil must be renewed annually, or at least 
every two years: but, even if the soil 
were renewed frequently, this would not 
supply the want of a free circulation of 
air. To attain this object, either the 
boundary walls of the front garden must 
be removed, and open iron railings sub- 
stituted for them, or the beds or borders 
containing the flowers must be elevated 
as high as the walls. Sometimes the 
former mode might be adopted, but the 
latter will generally be found impracti- 
cable; and therefore, as a substitute for 
it, we would propose elevating the finer 
flowers in vases fixed on pedestals. The 
soil contained in these vases, however 
large they may be (fg. 82. is 8 ft. in 
diameter), could be renewed every year 


for a few shillings, and a fresh stock of plants supplied for a few 
shillings more. ‘The vase would cost, perhaps, 3/. or 5/.; and 


this is actually less t 


han what the renewal of the soil of the whole 
garden would cost every year, or at least 
every other year. If, however, this first 
cost be thought too great, smaller, and, of 
course, cheaper, vases might be employed, 
such as jigs. 83, 84, 85, 86, and 87. One 
large vase, or one large and two small vases, 
would be quite enough for an ordinary street 
garden: for example, such as those along 
both sides of the New Road. ‘The area of 
the garden might be of turf, of gravel, or 
paved, with a narrow dug border along each 
of the side walls and in front, planted with 
bulbs and the commoner evergreen herb- 
aceous plants (such as pinks, saxifrages, 
&c.), with a few trees and shrubs of showy 
flowering kinds. If these front gardens were 
either wholly in turf, excepting always the 
walk from the gate to the door of the house, 


or wholly paved, with a very narrow marginal dug border, and 
the vase or vases forming a point or a line in the centre of the 
turf or pavement, they would look incomparably better than they 
‘do at present. They are now generally laid out entirely in dug 
‘beds, either on turf or with box edgings, and small narrow 


MM 4 


4.92 Vases as Receptacles 


gravel paths; in which beds, for the reasons 
iM2 before given, fine plants never thrive, and 
which are exceedingly difficult to keep orderly 
and neat, though they never look well unless 
they are so. By the plan of having vases 
instead of beds, these gardens may be kept 
neat all the year round at a very trifling ex- 
pense. In the summer the vases might be 
filled with showy flowers, and in winter either 
left empty or planted with evergreen shrubs 
and spring bulbs. ‘Thus far as to what may 
be called the economical reasons for employ- 
ing vases as receptacles for flowers in town 
gardens. 

The next reason is, that these vases are beautiful objects, 
either with or without flowers. We are pleased to see flowers 
in them, because, in addition to the natural beauty of the flowers, 

there is the important one of their being 
presented to us in a new and striking 
situation. The value even of common 
flowers thus becomes enhanced; and 
what would hardly be noticed in a bed, or 
in a border, has a new interest, and a 
degree of dignity lent to it, by its bemg 
placed in a handsome vase elevated on a 
pedestal. The vase is beautiful as a work 
of art, whether it is filled with plants or 
not; but when it serves as a receptacle 
for fine flowers, in a situation where such 
flowers are not seen in beds or borders, 
its importance is increased by the addi- 
tional beauty which it confers on them, 
in presenting them in a distinguished 
situation. ‘There is a certain degree of distinction conferred 
upon a plant by placing it even in a common flower-pot; but 
where, instead of the common form and fragile material of the 
flower-pot, the elegant shape and durable massive appearance of 
the sculptured vase of stone (natural or artificial) is employed, 
the superior value of the latter must be felt by every one. A 
farther reason why the common flower-pot is deficient in dignity 
arises from its being portable, and generally placed on the 
ground; while the fixed and elevated vase, from its elevation, 
magnitude, weight, and solid foundations, has all the dignity 
and permanence of an architectural structure. 

From the influence of fixed and elevated vessels, or other 
permanent structures, for containing plants, in giving conse- 
quence to them, has arisen, not only the employment of stone 


Jor Plants in Town Gardens. 493 


vases, but even of that description of rustic baskets and vases, 
for containing flowers, now frequently placed on Jawns in exten- 
sive pleasure-grounds; and which are, as our correspondent 
Selim has so clearly shown (p. 485.), particularly suitable for 
cottage gardens. But the satisfaction which rustic vases give in 
such situations is far inferior to that produced by fixed stone 
vases in town gardens: because, in the latter situation, flowers 
of any kind are comparatively rare and cherished; whereas, in 
extensive pleasure-grounds in the country, where there are beds 
of pelargoniums and other flowers without end, it seems almost 
needless profusion to elevate them in vases. Hence it is, that 
when stone or pottery vases are introduced into gardens in the 
country, they are very seldom filled with plants of any kind. 
They are introduced there as beautiful works of art, to give 
pleasure, by their contrast, to the beautiful works of nature with 
which they are surrounded. 

Another reason why vases of flowers should be introduced 
into the little walled gardens of streets is, that they harmonise 
admirably with the masonry and architectural forms by which 
they are surrounded. For this reason, also, stone vases should 
be sparingly introduced in pleasure-grounds in the country, 
except as appendages, or ornaments to architecture; such as on 
the parapets of terraces near the house, on the stone borders, 
balustrades, &c., of architectural flower-gardens, &c. ‘They 
should never be set down on the naked ground, for the reasons 
which we have before given (p. 326.); and, above all, they 
should always have a fixed and permanent character. Even a 
common flower-pot, when fixed on a pedestal, assumes a cha- 
racter of dignity, which it never can have in a situation from 
which the spectator imagines it can be easily removed. Nay, 
more: a vase, or a common flower-pot, though it be not fixed 
by mortar or cement so as to become a part of the masonry on 
which it is placed, yet, if it is only set on a wall, or in any other 
position from which it cannot be removed without destroying 
the regularity or symmetry of the composition or whole to which 
it belongs, acquires a fixed and permanent character. This 
character is given when a flower-pot or vase is set on a wall, so 
as to form a termination to piers, pedestals, pilasters, or pillars 
of any kind: but place it on the coping of the wall, in the inter- 
val between such piers, &c., and its character becomes at once 
temporary and unmeaning: because there is no obvious reason 
for placing a vase there at all; for limiting the number to one; 
or for not moving it, either to the right or left, or even for not 
taking it away altogether. 

If it be asked, why use vases in the country at all, unless plants 
are tobe put inthem? ‘The answer is, they are employed as 
appropriate ornaments, as beautiful forms, and as articles of rarity 


494 - Vases in Garden Scenery. 


and of value. But it may be farther asked, can an object be beau- 
tiful, or confer ornament on another object, when it is in itself of 
no use? Certainly it can. The noblest ornaments are those which 
Aare without use, in the common sense of the word; though, in 
the sense of art and refinement, everything is of use which adds 
fo the strength of the emotion of that kind of beauty which it is 
desired to produce. What would be the splendour of the draw- 
ing-room, or the effect of the picture-gallery, without gilding ? 
or an assemblage of highly dressed beauties, without those use- 
less articles, diamonds and other precious stones? Nature has 
planted in the mind of man, from the rudest savage to the most 
refined philosopher, a capacity for deriving pleasure from beauty. 
It is necessary that this want should be supplied; and it will be 
found gratified, to a certain extent, in every stage in the progress 
of civilisation: partly by objects which are useful in the ordinary 
sense of the word, as dress, &c.; and partly by such as have no 
other use than the power of conferring ornament. In the rudest 
state of society, we have the tattooing and nose-rings of the 
savage; next the earrings, scarcely less barbarous, of a more 
civilised period: and, though these must pass away with the 
introduction of a taste more truly refined, the necklaces and 
bracelets, which are common to all ages and countries, will pro- 
bably continue to be so, as long as women dress highly, and 
large parties are given by artificial light. 

Another reason for the introduction of vases, and other archi- 
tectural ornaments of a similar kind, both into town and country 
gardens, is, their tendency to create and cultivate a taste for 
natural ‘beauty in the spectator; since, however paradoxical it 
may seem, it is, nevertheless, true that we can only be instructed 
in the beauties of nature through the medium of art. No person 
can either enjoy, understand, describe, or remember a landscape 
properly, who has not been instructed in drawing landscapes ; 
any more than he could enjoy, understand, or analyse any par- 
ticular style of writing, without having been taught grammar 
and composition. ‘Teaching a person to draw trees, for example, 
is teaching him to find beauties in trees which he had never 
seen in them before. Setting before a person beautiful vases, is 
to familiarise him with beautiful forms, which he cannot help 
contrasting with ordinary shapes; and, according to his natural 
capacity, or the suitableness of his organisation for discernment 
in forms, he will find in the vases a unity of tendency in the lines 
which constitute their outlines, a symmetry in their general 
forms, and a richness, an intricacy, and a character of art in 
their sculptured details, which will induce him to search for these 
qualities in other objects of art, and to observe every tendency 
towards them in the works of nature. To such an observer, the 
productions of architecture and sculpture would assume a new 


On raising Plantations near the Sea. 495 


interest; and he would gradually, and almost imperceptibly, 
acquire a knowledge of, and taste for, the beauty of forms and 
lines in objects generally. He would thus learn to distinguish 
symmetry, regularity, unity, variety, and other abstract quali- 
ties in works of art, which he would probably have never dis- 
covered in the forms of nature without such assistance; though 
they exist there, and are merely imitated by art in a way which 
renders them more obvious to untutored man, who sees only 
that mind in other things which he understands and feels in 
himself. 

The last reason which we shall offer for the introduction of 
vases into architectural and garden scenery is, the gratification 
which such objects afford to the man of intelligence and taste. 
There are, perhaps, few objects, next to the human figure, which 
afford as many interesting historical associations as the vase. It 
may truly be said to be the first and the last production of the 
plastic art. The first utensil formed by man in the dawn of 
civilisation, in every country, is a vessel or vase for holding 
water; and that on which the highest resources of art are 
bestowed, in ages of the greatest refinement, is a vessel or vase 
for holding wine. In the first case, it is hollowed out of a 
gourd, or rudely shaped of clay and dried in the sun; and, in 
the latter case, it is manufactured of costly metals or precious 
stones; or, if of common materials, such as stone, earthenware, 
or glass, it is rendered valuable by the taste and skill bestowed 
on its form or its ornaments. ‘The history of every country may 
be traced by its vases, no less than by its coins; and the history 
of all countries is set before us in the vases of all countries. It 
would be foreign to the object of this Magazine to say more on 
the subject: a little reflection will bring materials for thinking 
on it to the mind of every reader; and the young gardener will, 
we trust, after he has read and considered this paper, look at 
an ornamental vase, or eyen.a common flower-pot, with a new 
interest. 


Art. VIII. On raising Plantations near the Sea. 
By Mr. 'T. Rutcer. 


Tuer remarks and illustrations, by the Rev. W. B. Clarke, upon 
the effects of wind on trees growing on the coast near Poole in 
Dorsetshire (IX. 54’7.), and the annotations of J. D. upon that 
communication, and also upon mine upon nearly the same sub- 
ject which precedes it, prompt me to enter more at large upon 
the subject of raising plantations near the sea. Mr. Clarke’s 
profiles represent nearly all the types of the forms of the single 
trees that have ever come under my notice on the coast, that 


4.96 On raising Plantations near the Sea. 


were exposed to the south-west and north-west winds. The same 
effects are also to be seen in plantations that have been raised 
without being nursed either by the pinaster, or by some other 
sort of tree that will bear the winds on the coast without injury ; 
and the sectional sketch (fig. 88.) will pretty nearly give an idea 
of the appearance of a wood of full-grown trees thus planted and 
exposed. ‘The inference naturally arising from these effects is, 
that the trees nearest the outside, not having had any protection, 
have become stunted, through not being able to withstand the - 
winds which are almost incessantly blowing from off the coast. 
Now, to remedy this evil the pinaster or cluster pine is well 
adapted, many proofs of which have come under my notice, in 
the counties of Devon and Cornwall. 

To raise a deep plantation of forest trees on the coast in the 
above counties, in fully exposed situations, I would recommend 
that the whole of the ground intended for the plantation be 
ploughed (as, indeed, it should be for every plantation, in whatever 
situation) to the depth of at least 9 in.; that the whole be planted 
with pinasters at about 5 ft. apart; and that these be allowed to 
have not less than three years’ growth before the forest trees are 
introduced, so that they may be capable of affording the latter 
immediate protection. ‘This I have observed to be of the utmost 
importance; as, if the forest trees are planted at the same time 
with the pinasters, many of the former will become stunted, and 
will remain so until the pinasters afford them the necessary pro- 
tection ; sustaining, by this means, an injury, from which they will 
never properly recover, and to hide the effects of which a partial 
replanting must be made. If ploughing the ground be dispensed 
with, on account of the expense, or for any other reason, let 
holes be made of 15 in. diameter at the above distances, two or 
three months before the pinasters are to be planted; the earth 
from these holes should be laid up in hillocks to be pulverised, 
and the turf be laid on one side. On proceeding to plant, let 
the turf, if any, be chopped small, and put into the bottom of the 
holes; as this, during its decomposition, will considerably assist 
the growth of the young plants. If the ground is naturally in- 


On raising Plantations near the Sea. 497 


clined to grass or other herbage, great care must be taken to 
clear the young pinasters, and not to suffer them to be over- 
shaded, particularly in a wet season; as instances have occurred 
where, for want of attention to this, nearly half the crop has 
been lost by the plants damping off near the bottom. With re- 
gard to the age of the plants to be inserted, those of two years’ 
growth, and having been once transplanted from the seed-bed, 
are generally adopted; perhaps, not on account of their being 
cheaper than those which have been twice transplanted, but by 
reason of there being in the nurseries a greater number of them 
for sale: plants, however, of three years’ growth, which have 
been twice transplanted, are by far preferable, and will amply 
repay the planter for their extra-price. In raising a plantation 
of forest trees on the coast, thus nursed by pinasters, the latter 
must always be considered of secondary importance; therefore, 
as soon as they have come in contact with each other, means 
must be taken to prevent the forest trees from becoming encum- 
bered by the pinasters, either by lopping the latter, or by taking 
them entirely away by degrees, as it may appear necessary ; at the 
same time taking care to leave a good breastwork of them on 
the outside, opposite to the coast. 

With regard to the selection of forest trees, I have known 
failures to happen through the partiality of the planter to one 
particular species, for which there was no congeniality in the soil 
to be planted. I should, therefore, strongly recommend that 
a variety of species be introduced; and that, in the course of 
thinning, place be given to those which take the lead, or at least 
to such as promise fair to make fine trees of the most valuable 
kinds of timber. 

The season made choice of for planting the pinaster is usually 
the months of March and April. ‘The success of the plants de- 
pends greatly upon the weather in the two following months; if 
it be hot and dry, many failures are likely to take place: it is, 
therefore, a question with me if autumn planting would not be 
preferable, and experience in some measure confirms me in the 
opinion that it would; but, as the trial was only made in one 
instance, I do not feel myself at liberty to decide upon it. I can 
only say that, in the instance alluded to, very few failures occurred, 
which may be accounted for upon the principle that all ever- 
greens derive great advantage from their foliage being kept moist 
for some time after being planted ; which is more likely to happen 
in the autumn than the spring, particularly on the sea coast, where 
the air is mostly humid during the autumn and winter. ‘The frost, 
also, is less intense near the coast, and, consequently, less likely 
to injure the trees, than it is in places far removed from the sea. 
The pinaster is rather a ticklish plant to deal with on removing 
it to the plantation. The sooner it can be planted, after it is 


498 On raising Plantations near the Sea ~ 


taken from the nursery, the better ; and its roots, even during the 
interval, should be prevented from being exposed to the air; 
great care ought also to be taken, when the plants are drawn 
from the nursery bed, to preserve all their fibres entire: this 
part of the business ought to be strictly attended to, as much of 
the desired success depends upon it. Whatever failures take 
place ought to be made good, the following planting season, with 
plants which have been twice transplanted, with which, under 
any circumstances, fewer failures occur, than with those which 
have been only once transplanted. ‘Transplanting from the seed- 
bed to the plantation is by no means to be recommended ; but, if 
done, I should advise that two or three plants be clumped toge- 
ther, as there is a danger of many failures in this mode of pro- 
cedure: however, if it should be adopted, it will be necessary, in 
a year or two, to take away all the plants but one in each clump, 
leaving that which is most promising. 

For all plantations near the coast, designed principally for 
ornament, I most decidedly recommend a line of the Quércus 
Ilex, or evergreen oak, to be planted on the outside (IX. 543.), 
at the same time with the pinasters. Ilexes are in the nurseries 
usually sown in pots, or they are transplanted into pots when 
a year old, and are in the course of two or three years fit to 
remove to the plantation with safety; if drawn from the nursery 
bed in the common way, even planted under the most favourable 
circumstances, success is very uncertain. Should planting in 
autumn be adopted for the pinasters, I should in that case 
recommend that the ilexes be turned out of their pots in the 
following spring. On transplanting ilexes into pots from the 
seed-bed, it may be well to mention that they will derive great 
advantage from being placed in a cold frame for a few weeks, 
and kept close, and shaded when necessary. The coarse lands 
in some parts of the west of England, and particularly in Corn- 
wall, have sometimes a stratum of spar, consisting of small 
stones, lying on the surface, but more generally a few inches be- 
low it, the thickness of which varies from 2 in. to 3 in. or 4 in. 
Should this be the case where planting is intended, ploughing 
or breaking up the ground will prove of essential service to the 
future progress of the plantation. 

The above hints are grounded upon the observations and ex- 
perience of more than twenty years on the coasts of Devon and 
Cornwall; and may, I think, be fully recommended to the con- 
sideration of those who are desirous to raise plantations on the 
coast in that part of the kingdom. Perhaps some of your readers 
may be able to send you a few hints as to the suitableness of the 
pinaster, for the above purpose, upon other parts of the coast. 

Shorigrove, Essex, November, 1833. 


Short Communications. - ~ 499 


By observing the date of the above communication, it will be 
seen that Mr. Rutger had recommended the planting of the 
nurses three years before that of the trees they were intended 
to protect, prior to the publication of Mr. Bree’s article (p. 295.), 
and that of Mr. James Munro (p. 405.), on the same subject. 
On the method of establishing trees in situations near the sea, 
we may refer to the above communications, and to IX. 543. 
547. 549. and 715. — Cond. 


Art. IX. Short Communications. 


EXPERIMENTS with Potatoes have been carried on, with great 
care, in the Horticultural Society’s garden, for some years past, 
and the results given in two papers by Dr. Lindley, the last of 
which is just published in part vi. of the Hort. Trans., vol. 1. 
second series. From this paper it appears that the opinion 
entertained by Mr. Knight, and a number of other persons, of 
the superior production of whole tubers over sets, is unfounded. 
The same result, it is stated, has also been arrived at by Sir 
George Mackenzie, from experiments made by him in Ross- 
shire. Other instances will be found in our First Additonal 
Supplement to our Encyclopedia of Agriculture, just published. 

In planting a Vinery, Mr. Dowding, the celebrated grape- 
grower at Oakhill, near Barnet, [whose practice will be found 
registered in an excellent article by Mr. Forsyth, in our next] 
lays the ball of the plant on its side about 5 ft. from the front of 
the house, and covers the shoot with not more than 2 in. of soil 
from the root up to the front wall, where it is introduced into the 
house. A vinery was planted in this manner in June, 1833, and 
immediately after planting, three large hand-glasses were placed 
over each stem, in crder, by concentrating and retaining heat and 
moisture, to cause the stems to root more freely. ‘They grew 
admirably the first year, and they are now making such strong 
wood, and showing such strong eyes, that a very superior crop 
is anticipated by the third June after planting. — Adolescentulus. 
Barnet, May 15.1834. - 

If manure be considered as the food of plants, lime and salts 
of different kinds may perhaps be considered correctives or con- 
diments. There seems no other mode of accounting for the 
productive effect of lime, on soils where dung will do no good, 
than by supposing that it acts by dissolving or neutralising 
poisonous matters in the soil. ‘These poisonous matters may, in 
some cases, be those exudations from the roots of plants, which 
of late years have given rise to the new theory of the rotation of 


crops. — A. S. 


500 Hayward’s Inquiry into the Causes, §c. 


REVIEWS. 


Ant.I. An Inquiry into the Causes of the Fruitfulness and Barren- 
ness of Plants and Trees; with Practical Instructions for the 
Management of Gardens and Farms, and a System of training 
Fruit Trees, §c., founded on Scientific Principles. Arranged as a 
Dialogue. By Joseph Hayward, Esq., Author of the “ Science 
of Horticulture,” &c. 12mo, 292 pages, cuts. London, 1834. 


Mr. Haywarp is advantageously known to our readers by 
his scientific communications in this Magazine, and by his work 
entitled The Science of Horticulture. 'The present little volume, 
he informs us in his preface, is to ‘* convey, in a compact and 
simple form, the substance of the more important parts of his 
former works on horticulture and agriculture, together with the 
results of much subsequent observation and experiment.” ‘The 
work is conducted in the form of a dialogue, in which are dis- 
cussed, in succession, the chemistry of vegetation, and the nature 
of scils and manures, or, as the author prefers to term them, the 
food of plants; the production of varieties; and vegetable struc- 
ture, and vegetable diseases. This part of the work, which 
extends to 169 pages, constitutes the science of cultivation; and 
the remaining part is occupied with ‘ A System of Practice 
founded on the Science.” We have our doubts as to some 
points of the practice, particularly as to the mode of training 
the peach; and we cannot assent to the assertion (p. 37.) that 
‘worms do not in any manner injure living plants.” Every 
one who has had the care of plants in pots must be of a different 
opinion. However, with a very few exceptions of this kind, 
which the practical man can easily guard against, we consider 
the work a valuable accession to horticultural literature ; and, as 
it is cheap (2s. 6d.), we would very strongly recommend it to 
every young gardener: for in nothing do we more heartily con- 
cur with Mr. Hayward than in this, — “that the most valuable 
part of the knowledge which a thoroughly sound and accom- 
plished horticulturist or agriculturist should possess, will be 
found, on enquiry, to be of such a nature that it not only may, 
but must, be obtained by reading.” (p. 4.) 


Art. II. Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London. 
Second Series. Vol. I. Part III. 4to. London, 1833. 


(Continued from p. 230.) 


30. Norzs on the Sowing and Cultivation of the Sheeraz Tobacco. 
By Dr. Riach, of the Hon. East India Company’s Medical Service. 


The plants are grown till they are between two and three feet 
high, at which time the leaves will be from 8 in. to 15 in. long. At 


Transactions of the London Horticultural Society. 501 


this period all the flower buds are pinched off. The leaves in- 
crease in size and thickness, until August or September, when 
each plant is cut off close to the root; and, instead of being laid 
down, or carried off to be dried elsewhere, it is stuck firmly into 
the ground close to the root from which it has been separated. 
In consequence of the heavy dews, the leaves change gradually 
from, green to yellow; and they are then, while they are yet wet 
with dew, taken to a shed with wickerwork, or other partially 
open side-walls, and laid in a heap for four or five days. The 
stalks, and centre rib of each leaf, are then removed and thrown 
away. ‘The leaves are again heaped together for three or four 
days more; after which, they are in a fit state for packing and 
being sent to the manufacturer. 


31. Upon the Cultivation of Tobacco for Garden Purposes. By 
Mr. John Wilson, Under-Gardener at the Society’s Garden at 
Chiswick. 


Every gardener ought to grow his own tobacco; and, as this 
article is, In our opinion, the most valuable one on the subject 
which has anywhere appeared, we shall give it almost entire. 


“Tobacco is an article which is indispensable to horticultural purposes. 
It is used to fumigate hot-houses; large infusions of it are put into most 
washes that are prepared for extirpating insects; and, by drying, and grinding 
it into the form of snuff, it is found very efficacious in destroying the green fly 
on peach and rose trees out of doors. 

“ In most gardens, the leaves are stripped off the plants in a green state, 
and thrown together in a heap to ferment; while, little or no attention being 
paid to the degree of temperature which such fermentation should reach, the 
usual consequence is burning or rotting the leaves. Tobacco so treated 
has neither the taste, the smell, nor the efficacy of tobacco, and, when burnt 
in hot-houses, is by no means effective in killing insects, without a great pro- 
portion of regularly cured and manufactured tobacco being burnt along with 
it. Hot-houses also smell very disagreeably for eight or ten days after being 
fumigated with it. 

“ Mr. Brodigan’s mode of curing, as detailed by him in his work on the 
growing and curing of tobacco in Ireland, has been tried in the garden, and it 
was found that the leaves began to suffer from heat at many degrees below 
the maximum temperature mentioned by Mr. Brodigan, which is 126°. This 
is an extreme, which, it is to be presumed, will readily account for the great 
waste of tobacco during the curing process in Ireland. Taking off four or 
five of the bottom leaves of each plant, suffermg them to lie on the ground 
for some time, gathering and carrying them home to a barn, fermenting them 
two or three times, spreading out as often to cool, and finally hanging them 

on lines of packthread to dry ; all which has to be repeated when a few more 
of the lower leaves are considered ripe, must also be attended with very great 
labour and expense. 

“ The principle of fermenting tobacco in a green state is sanctioned by a 
long course of practice; but, from every observation of its effects which has 
been made here, it seems to be productive of the worst of consequences ; for 

it is dependent upon conditions so difficult to govern, that, notwithstanding 
the greatest care, it never fails to be injurious to the tender leaves. 

“ The sort which is grown here for the purpose of fumigation, &c., is a very 


Vou, X.— No. 55. NN 


502 Transactions of the London Horticultural Society. 


large-leaved variety of Virginian tobacco, which was obtained from the Sand- 
wich Islands: it is the best which has yet been received at the garden. 

“ Tn the last season it was managed in the following manner : — The seeds 
were sown about the middle of March, covered very lightly with fine loam, 
and placed upon a moderate hotbed. When the plants were come up, and 
had acquired sufficient strength, they were pricked into shallow pans, about 
two inches apart; they were then gradually inured to the open air on good 
days, and finally planted out in the middle of May, at 3 ft. apart, in rich ground. 
They were shaded with flower-pots, and occasionally watered, till they had 
taken root and begun to grow. No more attention was bestowed, except 
keeping the ground clean, until their lateral shoots began to show themselves, 
which were constantly kept pinched off as they appeared: these, if suffered toe 
remain, would have had the effect of very much reducing the supply of sap 
from the useful leaves of the plants. They were topped at sixteen or eighteen 
leaves, according to their strength. The tobacco was ripe in the beginning of 
September, as was indicated by the leaves becoming mottled with yellow 
spots, those at the bottom more so than at the top of the plant; they were 
also more glossy and shining than before. ' 

“ The mushroom-house, being at this time disengaged, was thought an 
eligible place for the curing process. The plants were taken up quite dry, 
with a few of their roots ; but no particular attention was paid to saying many 
of the latter, as the object was only to avoid breaking the bottom leaves 
(which might have been the case by cutting the stems). The plants were 
carried immediately to the house, and hung on nails in the walls, and on ropes 
in the middle of it. When all had been brought into the house, it was shut 
up quite close, the fire lighted, and the temperature kept to 70°, until the 
leaves got completely yellow, which they did in four or five days. The heat 
was then raised to 75°; and, in about a week, the leaves, with the exception 
of the midribs, were cured, and of a fine brown colour. The heat was then 
increased to between 80° and 90°, and, in five days, the midribs were so 
completely killed that the thick ends of them would have broken immediately 
on attempting to bend them. The leaves were now very much curled, and 
dry as fire could make them; and, if subjected to any pressure, would have 
crumbled to snuff. Fire was discontinued, and the floor of the house well 
watered. This was repeated as it evaporated; and, in twenty-four hours, 
the leaves were as soft and pliable as could be desired: they could now be 
handled without breaking or wasting them. When stripped off the stalks, 
they were stretched out singly, and laid above one another, smoothing them 
gently with the hands. When all were laid out neatly, they were well 
pressed, to give them form, and keep them smooth; they were then tied in 
hands of about half a dozen leaves in each, and packed into a tub, being well 
pressed as they were put in. In this way they remained a fortnight, when 
they began to mould slightly at the midribs, in consequence of the weather 
being moist and warm. They were then rehung in the house, and very gra- 
dually dried by fire heat ; were afterwards brought to a moist state, in the 
manner above described, and finally were repacked in the tub, where they now 
remain, well pressed, and in a good keeping state. The tobacco continues to 
improve in smell and appearance with its age. 

“ There can be no doubt that this tobacco is as good (unless in respect of 
age) as much of that which is imported from America. It has yielded in the 
proportion of 2420 lbs. to an acre, being half a pound to every plant, each 
occupying three square feet. 

* The important points in the above mode of curing are, to carry the plants 
to the house whenever they are taken up; for, if the sun be bright, the leaves 
would sunburn in a short time. The leaves require to be yellow before the 
heat is increased, otherwise the tobacco would cure too light-coloured; and 
the midribs must be completely killed before the leaves are taken off the 
stalks ; for, if not once made very dry, they would never keep. 


Transactions of the London Horticultural Society. 503 


** The power which the leaves possess of absorbing moisture, in a damp 
atmosphere, is immense, and very curious: a person unacquainted with it 
would not believe, on seeing a leaf in its driest state, that it could ever be 
brought back so as to be again pliable. 

“ The number of leaves that each plant ought to be allowed to produce 
should be determined by the quality of the ground, the earliness or lateness of 
the season, &c.: when these combine to the advantage of the plants, they are 
able to perfect proportionally more leaves. By a timely and careful atten- 
tion to such circumstances, and by pinching off the lateral shoots, the climate 
of England, or that of Ireland, is in every respect sufficient to the full per- 
fection of tobacco. Four months are not fully required to bring it to 
maturity. 

“ In the case of large plantations being made, shading would be attended 
with considerable expense: it is not, however, of absolute necessity; for, 
when tobacco plants are pricked out some time previous to planting, they 
make good roots, which are of greater benefit to them, after they are planted, 
than shading is. The latter, however, is practised in England and Ireland, 
and is certainly useful; but it is by no means an essentially necessary part of 
the management of tobacco. The leaves flag under a hot sun; but, if the 
ground is moist, quickly recover. When the danger of late frosts is over, it 
would seem best to commence planting; if, however, from apprehensions of 
any description, the tobacco is not got out till the latter end of May (and it 
need never be so late), even at that time there could be no danger of its 
ripening. Planting, in Ireland, is [was] continued considerably later than this. 

“ The mode of curing thus described, or one very similar to it, would seem 
to remedy the defects complained of in Ireland; namely, the great waste of 
the article by repeated fermentations. To this mode no such objection can 
be found; and, if adopted in Ireland, it would be incomparably less labour 
and expense, than the present mode of management in that country. 

“ The Irish planter would, however, require a firmg-house in addition to 
the barn or shed spoken of by Mr. Brodigan. It could be of any dimensions. 
A short wide firing-house would be best adapted for the purpose, with a flue 
running along the centre. A very small house would cure an amazing quan- 
tity of plants 3 ; for, when they are taken up, their leaves begin to fall almost 
immediately, and lie upon the stalks; and, when they get to the brown colour, 
do not occupy much more room than the stalk ‘itself, The plants could 
first be hung in the open shed, where rain and sun ought to be kept off; in 
this shed the leaves would come to the yellow state before mentioned, when 
they might be removed to the firing-house.” (p. 213.) 


32. Upon grafting the Walnut Tree. By T. A. Knight, Esq., F.R.S. 
Pres. H.S. &c. 


Young or last year’s wood is employed both as the scion and 
as the stock; and both scion and stock are allowed to unfold their 
buds, and grow for a week or ten days, before the operation of 
erafting is performed. Previously to doing this, the young 
snoas rel foliage are rubbed off. Out of twenty-eight instances, 
twenty-two grew well, many producing shoots of nearly a yard 
long, and of very great strength. ‘“* The scions were attached 
to the young (annual) woed of stocks, which were between 5 ft. 
and 8 ft. high; and in all cases they were placed to stand astride 
the stocks, one division of the scion being in some instances in- 
troduced between the bark and the wood; and both divisions 
being, in others, fitted to the wood or bark in the ordinary way. 


Both modes of operating were equally successful. In each of 
NN 2 


504 Report of the Agricultural Exhibition 


these methods of grafting it is advantageous to pare away almos: 
all the wood of both the divisions of the scions; and, therefore 
the wide dimensions of the medulla in the young shoots of the 
walnut tree do not present any inconvenience to the grafter.” 
(p. 216.) 


33. A Report upon the best Varieties of the Gooseberry cultivated in 
the Garden of the Horticultural Society at Chiswick. By Mr. 
Robert Thompson, Under-Gardener in the Fruit Department. 


In this paper, gooseberries are divided into “ two races (small 
and Lancashire); each of which may be separated into four divi- 
sions (red, yellows green, and white) ; and these, each into three 
subdivisions (hispid, downy, or smooth), which are capable of 
being farther divided into two sections (round or oblong), making 
in all forty-eight groups.” ‘The number of sorts enumerated 
are seventy. “In our Encyc. of Gard., new edit., p. 930., Mr. 
Thompson has classed the gooseberries in the same manner ; but, 
as our object was selection, he has enumerated only fifty-six 
sorts; quite enough, in our opinion, for any garden whatever. 


34. A Note upon the Black Corinth Grape. By Mr. Robert Thomp- 
son, Under-Gardener in the Fruit Department of the Society’s 
Garden at Chiswick. 

This is the grape which produces the corinths, or currants, of 
the shops, and it is merely figured and described here, because 
there is great uncertainty in procuring it correctly from the 
nurseries. It will be found in its proper place in our Encyc. of 
Gard., new edit. 


Ses ae 


Art. III. Report of the Exhibition of Agriculturai Productions, new 
Implements, 5c., at the Premises of Dickson and Turnbull, Nursery 
and Seedsmen, Perth ; open from November, 1833, to April, 1834: 
to which are appended Original Essays on the Utility of Agricul- 
tural Museums, the Cultivation of Natural Grasses, and the Rot in 
Larch. Small 8vo, 66 pages. Perth, 1834. 1s. 


THE eminent success which attended the Stirling Agricultural 
Exhibition, by Messrs. Drummond, whose Report we reviewed 
in IX. 447., has led to a similar exhibition in Perth, a county 
which has long been distinguished both for horticultural and 
agricultural eminence. It is gratifying to find, from the preface, 
that the liberal and enlightened views of Messrs. Dickson and 
Turnbull have been amply seconded by the farmers and horti- 
culturists throughout the county, and even in adjoining counties. 
“¢’That the farmers and others of Perthshire would easily perceive 
the benefits likely to result from such an institution, we never 


at Dickson and Turnbull’s, Perth. 505 


doubted; and, had any thing been wanting to persuade us of 
this, we should have been fully convinced of it by the manner in 
which both farmers and horticulturists have come forward with 
samples of their various productions. Indeed, when we think 
of the circumstance of this having been the first season of the 
institution here, and also of the very brief period that elapsed 
betwixt our giving publicity to our intention and the time of 
the exhibition opening, it is astonishing to remark the number 
of specimens of the various sorts of grain, fruits, and other pro- 
ductions that have been sent us: and, as nothing can give us 
more real gratification than to be able, by any, exertions of ours, 
to forward the interests of the agriculturist, the more especially 
when we perceive those exertions to be in the way of benefiting 
all classes of the community, we must be allowed the pleasure 
of auguring favourably for the success of this institution from 
the support it has met with at its commencement.” We give 
this quotation in the hope that it may lead to similar exhibitions 
in other districts; and nowhere are these more wanted than 
in England. Among the exhibitors, we find our valued corre- 
spondent Mr. Gorrie; and also Mr. Bishop of Methven Castle, 
and Mr. Young of Pitfour, stand preeminent. 

Among the articles exhibited were, wheats in straw, twenty- 
nine specimens, including nearly half as many varieties; some 
from Tuscany, Tangier, Nepal, South America, &c. Wheat 
in sample, fitteen specimens, including Talavera wheat, and the 
blood-red ; with the Mungoswells variety, which appears to be 
held in much esteem. Of barley in straw, there were twenty- 
five specimens; including one from Morocco, which yielded 
20 sacks per acre, on a short and stiff straw, not liable to lodge. 


.. Of barley in sample, there were seventeen specimens; including 


one from Tangier, and another from China. Oats in straw, 
thirty-three specimens; including the Hopetoun oat, which, on 
one farm, had grown to the height of 6 ft. 2 in. over the whole 
field; also the naked oat, said to have been well known in the 
country two hundred years ago. Oats in sample, fifteen sorts ; 
among which, as also among the oats in straw, the Hopetoun 
and potato oat held conspicuous places. ‘The brown Riga, 
introduced by Mr. Gorrie, also promises well. Beans of two 
sorts. Peas of two sorts; including the Napoleon pea from 
Mr. Gorrie, a species of Vicia used on the Continent as green 
peas; and the black-podded pea from Van Diemen’s Land, 
also from Mr. Gorrie, and likely to prove an excellent field pea. 
Tares, two sorts. Turnips, sixty-five specimens; with the weight 
of each, and other particulars. ‘The produce of Dale’s hybrid 
we observe stated at 45 tons per acre. Carrots, sixteen sorts 
from gardens, and two from fields: the heaviest of these was an 
Altrincham weighing 3} lbs. Potatoes, twenty-six sorts; in- 
NN 3 


506 Report of the Agricultural Exhibition 


cluding an early white variety from Aberdeen, which produced, 
on a small spot, at the rate of 222 bolls of 560 lbs. each per 
Scotch acre. We may also mention a permanent white 
variety, obtained by cutting out and planting the variegated 
part taken from the red potato, performed by a female horticul- 
turist, from Mr. H. Bishop, New Scone.” In thanking the 
female horticulturist for the result of her ingenious experiment, 
Messrs. Dickson and Turnbull gallantly observe : — “ If ladies 
would only take the lead, the young farmers would soon follow 
them in studying the science of vegetable physiology.” We 
entirely concur in this opinion; and only wish that, in addition 
to vegetable physiology, ladies would study the natural system 
of botanical classification; direct their attention to trees and 
shrubs, so as to introduce a greater variety in our shrubberies 
and plantations ; and not forget altogether landscape-gardening 
and domestic architecture and furniture. 

Of mangold wurtzel three specimens were exhibited, the 
heaviest weighing 9 lbs. 9 oz. It seems to be a general opinion 
that Perthshire is the most northerly point in Britain where the 
field culture of mangold wurtzel can be carried on with profit. 
Red beet, four specimens; and silver beet, one specimen. 
Among the miscellaneous articles were cardoons, celery, suc- 
cory, onions, a great variety of the cabbage tribe, a new variety 
of saintfoin (Melildtus officinalis), sown by Mr. Gorrie on the 
9th of April, and pulled on the Ist of October. ‘‘ When sown in 
September, and allowed to ripen its seeds, it grows 5 ft. or 6 ft. 
high; but, if cut before flowering, it will yield a second crop ; 
and, sown on stubble, will form an excellent substitute for clover 
when that plant is found to have failed.” Trifolium incarnatum 
is used for this purpose in England; but Mr. Gorrie is of opi- 
nion that the Melilotus officinalis, or true Irish shamrock, as it 
is by some considered, is a preferable plant for Scotland. Gaul- 
théerza Shdallon, it is found, may be successfully cultivated in 
heathy woods and on waste moorlands, so as to afford a welcome 
repast to both grouse and pheasants. This has been done by 
Mr. Bisset of Methven Castle gardens, and also by a gentleman 
of our acquaintance (Mr. Carpenter), on Tweedside. Most of 
our readers know that the G. Skallon, introduced by Mr. Douglas 
from the north-west coast of North America, is a beautiful dwarf 
evergreen shrub, bearing edible berries. O’xalis tetraphylla, 
from Mr. Gorrie, raised in the open air during summer, but 
kept under glass during winter. In Prussia, this plant is used 
as an edging ; and its leaves as sorrel, mixed with those of New 
Zealand spinach to improve its flavour. ‘The flavour of the 
bulbs resembles that of potatoes. Fine samples of potato flour 
were exhibited ; and it appears that the proportion of flour is to 
the weight of raw potato as 1 to 10 on an average. 


at Dickson and Turnbull's, Perth. 507 


Among the fruits exhibited were some hundreds of varieties 
of pears and apples, including many of the new sorts introduced 
from France and the Netherlands; also a small branch, about 
7in. long, containing about 100 cherries, which grew in the 
New Row Green, Perth, twenty-two years ago, preserved i ina 
glass [in spirits, we presume]. 

Above thirty specimens of grasses were exhibited by Mr. 
Bishop of Methven Castle. Z/lymus sibiricus produces a weighty 
crop; and, being eaten by animals with avidity, it deserves the 
attention a avriculturists. Poa nemoralis forms a dense sward 
under the shade of trees; and, as we have before observed, is 

valuable in pleasure-grounds. A grass of uncommon formation, 
from New Orleans, whose properties are not known; and one of 
Mr. Drummond’s newly discovered grasses, from the north-west 
coast of North America, were exhibited. Messrs. Dickson and 
Turnbull truly observe, that the advantages offered by the 
introduction of different sorts of pasture grasses into culture is 
becoming every season more obvious. ‘They trust soon to see 
farmers aware of the importance of the subject; and, when that 
is the case, they anticipate pastures of a much more luxuriant 
verdure than are at present to be found in Perthshire. Among 
the communications is an excellent essay on this subject, by Mr. 
Bishop of Methven Castle. 

The samples of grass seeds were numerous; and, among 
them, one of Teelnas rye grass, from Mr. Lawson, eeedennans 
Edinburgh. ‘There were also specimens of articles from Messrs. 
Drummond of Stirling; both cases affording a gratifying proof 
of the good feeling which subsists in Scotland ainong persons 
following the same pursuits; not only in the usual routine of 
business, but in the extraordinary exertions displayed in the 
establishment of these exhibitions. Among the specimens of 
grasses exhibited were two of an Italian rye grass ; which, with 
Mr. Gorrie, has produced two crops in a year. A variety of 
samples of agricultural seeds were exhibited by Nash and Co. 
of Londen; and an extensive collection of grass seeds and 
specimens, and also numerous species of pines and firs in pots, 
from Messrs. Dickson and Turnbull’s own nursery. Mr. Gorrie 
produced fine specimens of larch wood in which the rot had 
commenced. (See our next.) ‘The trees, for the greater part, 
had been grown on land previously occupied by the Scotch 
pine. Mr. Young , gardener at Pitfour, also exhibited specimens 
Okplanehsy, £6 Spceimens of larch, showing the commencement 
and progress of decay: they were planted in 1825, on ground 
previously occupied, for upwards of sixty years, with the Scotch 
pine; the soil thin clay, considerably impregnated with iron, on 
a subsoil of clay in vertical strata, forming an easy subsidence 


for moisture, on an elevation of about 20 ft. above the level of the 
NN4& © 


508 Report of the Perth Agricultural Exhibition. 


sea. They were planted as nurses for oak, at the rate of about 
3000 per acre; upwards of 6000 have this year been cut, out 
of which not more than 50 sound trees could be picked. Larch 
growing on the same soil, about sixty years old, had one in six 
or eight which showed slight symptoms of decay; but the tim- 
ber, in general, was of excellent quality.” (p.41.) The atten- 
tion of landed proprietors and foresters is directed, by Messrs. 
Dickson and Turnbull, to the probability of the rot in larch 
being produced to an alarming extent on land previously occu- 
pied by Scotch pine; a result which seems proved by the spe- 
cimens exhibited by Mr. Gorrie and Mr. Young. (See, also, 
VII. 374., and IX. 551.) 

Models of various kinds were exhibited : three ploughs, made 
by ploughmen ; one of a moss-house, by a boy of sixteen years 
of age, presented by Messrs. Drummond and Sons of Stirling; 
a model of a hollow brick wall; portraits of prize cattle; a 
machine or swoop (see Encyc. of Agr., §2729.) for conveying 
hay from the small coil [haycock] to the rick hay turner (or, as 
it would be called in England, the large haycock, the mode of 
making hay in the two countries being quite different : see Lincyc. 
of Agr., § 5791.) ; machine for compressing peat, which will be 
found in our First Additional Supplement to the Encyclopedia of 
Agriculture; verge-cutters, horse-hoes, cheese-pressers ; models 
of drains; wedge-drain spades; cheeses; and, lastly, books. 
The essays, the titles of which are given at the head of this 
article, are unexceptionable, both in matter and style. 

‘We have been thus particular in giving the contents of this 
tract, in order to show how easy it would be for seedsmen to 
get up similar exhibitions in every county town. The object is 
less to get new and strange articles, than to assemble together 
such things as are already in the county or district, in order to 
facilitate comparison, and equalise the knowledge of the exist- 
ence of such things. ‘This alone would lead to the examination 
of the exhibitions of adjacent counties, and to the introduction 
of articles from them; and thus improvements of every kind 
would be surely and rapidly propagated throughout the country. 
We would direct the attention of agriculturists everywhere, and 
more especially in England, to the great number of varieties of 
wheat, barley, and oats exhibited at the agricultural museums of 
Perth, Stirling, and Edinburgh, and to the superior excellence 
of some of them. We would recommend trials to be made in 
England of the Nepal wheat, the red-awned oat, the blood-red 
wheat, the Mungoswells wheat, the Morocco barley, the Tangier 
barley, and the chevalier barley. Nepal wheat sown in the Earl 
of Mansfield’s kitchen-garden at Kenwood, on July 11., was in 
full bloom on Sept. 12., when we called there. Lord Mansfield 
seen recommends Lupinus polyph¥llus as spring food for 
sheep. 


Rivers’s Catalogue of Roses. 509 


Art. IV. A new Descriptive Catalogue of Roses. By T. Rivers and 
Son, Nurserymen, Sawbridgeworth, Herts. In one imperial folio 
sheet, for sending as a single letter by post. 


WE have before strongly recommended this catalogue (IX. 
458.); and the present new edition of it is considerably en- 


larged and improved. The fellowing extracts will show the 


arrangement, as well as record some valuable remarks on the 
culture of the different divisions : — 


Moss Roses, 17 sorts. “ Most of the varieties prefer a cool soil, though 
Mossy de Meaux i is, perhaps, an exception, as it seems to flourish better im 
light dry soils. The White moss, unless budded on the dog rose (Rosa 
canina) will not, in general, grow well; its sickly appearance in some situ- 
ations may be often traced to its being worked on some improper stock. If 
on its own roots, in rich soils, it will often change to pale blush. All are well 
adapted for standards ; but, to have them in perfection in warm dry situations, 
in March put round each stem, on the surface of the soil, the fourth of a 
barrowful of manure; on this place flints or moss, to take off its unsightly 
appearance, and make a little ornamental mound. This treatment will keep 
the soil cool, and make them bloom in a most superior manner, even in situ- 
ations previously thought to be most ungenial to their culture. The manure 
should be spread on the surface in November, and lightly forked in.” 

Perpetual Roses, 29 sorts. “ These, with the exception of Perpetual Scotch, 
Stanwell perpetual, and Pompone four seasons, are all varieties of Rosa 
damascéna, or the Damask rose. They are, perhaps, the most desirable of all 
the pleasing families of #osa. Like their prototype, they are higlily fragrant, 
and, if possible, more so in September, October, and November, tian in June. 
As every shoot in most of the varieties produces bloom, the soil cannot be too 
rich; for, with these, luxuriant growth will be sure to give abundance of 
flowers. A good practice would be to cut off all the bloom-buds in June, and 
shorten the shoots to about half their length; then water them with manured 
water in July and August; this will make them shoot and bloom most lux- 
uriantly all the autumn.” 

Hybrid Roses, 66 sorts. “ The varieties of this distinct family are prin- 
cipally between the China rose (osa indica) and Rosa gallica. They are all 
very beautiful and distinct, and have that pleasing, glossy, sub-evergreen 
foliage, peculiar to the China rose; but make a great deviation from that 
family, in not being perpetual bloomers. In this division are some of the 
most beautiful roses known ; and among them George the Fourth, raised from 
seed by T. Rivers, jun., may rank among the best. These are aiso all very 
robust, and will grow and bloom well in the most unfavourable rose soils. 
Their peculiar habit and vivid colours render them particularly well adapted 
for standards.” 

Select Roses, 70 sorts. “In this division are many varieties of ?06sa gallica, 
and also many hybrids between f. gallica and #&. centifolia, &c. &c. The 
varieties selected are all fine and distinct, and will be found well worth cul- 
tivation.” 

Varieties of Rosa dlba, 9 sorts. 

Provence Roses, 16 sorts. ‘“ The Provence rose is the Rosa centifolia of 
botanists, the Cabbage rose of the English gardens, and the Rose a cent feuilles 
of the French. All its varieties are extremely fragrant, and some very beau- 
tiful. The Provence rose of the French catalogues is our Rosa gallica.” 

Noisette Roses, 44 sorts. “ This division, with the Perpetual roses, will 
ultimately be the ornament of every British garden: the astonishing mul- 
tiplicity and constant succession of flowers (till the chills of November prevent 
the opening of the buds) make them highly interesting. They are all very 


510 fiivers’s Catalogue of Roses. 


hardy, and, as standards, seem to show their varied characters with better 
effect than as dwarfs. Those kinds are indicated which, from the length and 
flexibility of their shoots, are adapted for rose pillars.” 

Climbing Roses, 42 sorts. “ A decided and rational objection has been 
made to tall standard roses; but, with the aid of this graceful division, they 
can be formed into objects of high artificial beauty. We will suppose a tall 
tree rose, with a fine head of Crimson perpetual, or George the Fourth roses, 
in full bloom, its stem covered with the pure white blossoms of Rosa semper- 
virens pléno, or some of its beautiful varieties, such as Princess Louise, Fé- 
licité perpétuelle, &c. &c.: to the lover of roses, this hint will convey the 
beau idéal of all that is beautiful in their culture.” 

Tea-scented Roses, 37 sorts. ‘“ The greater part of these are new to the 
English cultivator: all have that peculiar fragrance which the French have 
taught us to call tea-scented. Unless on very warm and favourable soils, 
these, as dwarfs, require careful cultivation, and must have a raised border 
against a south, south-east, or west wall. This border should be a compost 
of rotten manure or leaves, light loam, and sand, equal parts, and raised about 
18 in. above the surface. When grown as low standards, they are surpass- 
ingly beautiful: but they should be taken up in November, and their roots 
laid in mould, in a shed, as our sharp winters would injure them, so as to 
prevent their blooming in perfection, if left exposed.” 

China Roses, 49 sorts. “ From six to eight months in the year, the roses 
in this division form bright ornaments to our gardens. Many of the robust 
varieties make beautiful standards. They are all perfectly hardy. The sorts 
first in the list are quite new and very beautiful.” 

L’Isle de Bourbon Roses, 11 sorts. “ This is a most beautiful family, 
scarcely known in this country. They seem to form a distinct division of 
China roses; like them, they are perpetual; but they have a luxuriance and 
gracefulness quite their own: the perfect -and elegant form of their flowers, 
the extremely delicate tints in some, and vivid rose colour, so peculiar to 
these varieties, in others, will soon establish them in the favour of the rose 
amateur. As standards, they grow most luxuriantly, are quite hardy, and 
bloom in greater perfection late in autumn than any other Perpetual rose.” 

Musk Roses, sorts. “ These are interesting from their powerful fragrance 
and autumnal flowering. The Old white is one of the oldest inhabitants of 
the English gardens.” 

Scotch Roses, 22 sorts. “ These are all emanations from the Rosa spino- 
sissima, or Wild rose of Scotland; and the above selection gives a represent- 
ative of each shade of colour. Out of a collection of 200 nominal varieties 
from Scotland and elsewhere, twenty-two are all that can be recommended as 
tolerably distinct. These form so gay an assemblage among May flowers, 
that a clump or border ought to be devoted to them in every flower-garden. 
The shape of the flower in these is peculiar and similar, being nearly globular.” 

Miscellaneous Roses, 72 sorts, which are not described. 

General Remarks on the Culture of Roses.— Referring to the directions for rose 
culture given in their Catalogue for last year, and quoted in LX. 458., Messrs. 
Rivers observe, that they “ still think that, in unfavourable soils, roses require 
being removed, and their roots trimmed, every third or fourth year. In cold 
clayey soils, the best compost for them is rotten dung and pit sand; in warm 
dry soils, cool loam and rotten dung. Annual pruning, which is quite essen- 
tial, should always be done in October or in March; but October pruning 
will be found greatly advantageous, as the rose will then prepare itself during 
the remainder of the autumn for vigorous growth in spring. The families of 
roses are now so well defined, that each ought to have its department: a 
clump of hybrids for their gorgeous colours in June and July; of perpetuals, 
for their fragrance in the cool autumnal months; of Noisettes, for their 
elegance and abundance of flowers; and of Scotch roses, for their precocity 


and humble growth. In short, all the thirteen families above enumerated 
i 


Floricultural and Botanical Notices. 511 


require separate culture to have them in perfection; but this, of course, will 
only apply to rather extensive flower-gardens. Climbing roses for pillars 
should be planted in a very rich soil, as they will then put forth strong central 
branches, of 8 ft. or 10 ft. in length ; these, when fastened to the stakes, will 
furnish a plentiful supply of lateral blooming shoots for many seasons. The 
application of climbing roses to cover a sloping bank, their flexible branches 
being pegged to the ground, is, perhaps, a new idea. Thus treated, they will 
form a beautiful carpet of foliage and flowers; the dark crimson and white 
varieties blending with peculiar elegance. The majority of roses bloom much 
finer when budded on the dog rose than under any other mode of culture. 
The great objection is, ther throwing up suckers so as quickly to impoverish 
the budded part of the plant. To remove these as soon as they appear, the 
gardener must be continually on the alert.” 


We have no hesitation in stating it as our opinion, that this 
is by far the most useful catalogue of roses which has yet been 
published either in France or England. ‘The collection, though 
select, is sufficiently ample for every purpose; and the descrip- 
tions are such, that any person who reads them, with a view to 
becoming a purchaser, is in no danger of buying the same rose 
under different names; which can hardly be avoided when 
choosing from mere lists of names without descriptions. ‘The 
prices of the described sorts vary from 1s. 6d. to 7s. 6d., not 
above a dozen being at the latter price. ‘The miscellaneous 
roses are sold at 2/. 10s. per hundred; and a general mixture 
of sorts is 1/. 5s. per hundred. 


Art. V. Floricultural and Botanical Notices of new Plants, and of 
old Plants of Interest, supplementary to the latest Editions of the 
“ Encyclopedia of Plants,” and of the “ Hortus Britannicus.” 


Curtis's Botanical Magazine; each monthly number containing 
eight Plates; 3s. 6d. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Hooker, 
King’s Professor of Botany in the University of Glasgow. 

Edwards's Botanical Register; each monthly number containing 
eight plates; 4s. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Lindley, F.R.S., 
Professor of Botany in the London University. 


PotypetTaLous DicotyLEpDOoNOUS PLANTS. 


A Twining Leguminous Plant ‘which inhabits St. Kitt’s. —We 
have received, for distribution, from the botanic garden at Bury 
St. Edmunds, a portion of legumes and seeds of a plant of this 
kind, which had been presented to that establishment by J. E. 
A. Sadler, Esq. M.D., of St. Kitts. Dr. Sadler conceives that 
the plant is an undescribed one; and, from his description of it, 
we present as follows: —It has trifoliate leaves, and a 
flowers on long footstalks. ‘The corolla is of a pink colou 
a greenish spot at the base of the vexillum. The calyx h 
little bracteas at its base, is 4-cleft, persistent, and has a 


512 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


at the angle of each sinus. Vexillum obovate, reflexed. Wings 
unguiculate, each with a tooth. Stamens diadelphous. Stigma 
simple. Legume hairy, each seed embedded in its own separate 
membrane. We hope that some of those to whom we have 
imparted the seeds will, if plants be produced from them, ascer- 
tain the species, and inform us what it is. 


2072. INDIGO’/FERA. 
18685a violicea Rox. purple-coroliaed # J] or 5 P.Ro E. Indies? 1819. Cs. Bot. mag. 3348 


This, in the open air in the Edinburgh Botanic Garden, 
where it has stood several years, proves a very handsome shrub. 
It flowered there, for the first time, in July, 1834: it was received 
there, in 1820, from Mr. Thomas Hogg of Clapton. ‘The leaves, 
pinnated, are 2} in. long. ‘The clusters of flowers are axillary, 
longer than the leaves. The flowers are from twelve to twenty 
in a cluster. Corolla large and handsome: the standard of a 
reddish purple passing into lilac; the wings of a deep rose 
colour. (Bot. Mag., Sept.) 


Acacia lineata Cun., No. 24673. in Hort. Brit., is figured, from Kew, in Bot. Mag. t. 3346. 
Lupinus nanus Benth. (see X. 173.), a lovely annual species, is figured in Bot. Reg. t. 1705. 


MoNnopreTaLous DicoryLEDONOUS PLANTS. 
CLXIV. Campanulacee. 


607. CAMPA’NULA 4978 macrantha, large-flowered . a 
2 polyantha Hook. many-flowered -y A or 5 jnjl B Russia 1830. D co Bot. mag, 5347 


C. macrantha itself is a most estimable ornament of the hardy 
flower-garden ; and the present variety, C. macrantha var. poly- 
Antha, is described, and, by the figure, seems, to be one still 
more so. ‘It is a taller plant; the flowers are larger, of a bluer 
colour, and much more numerous upon the stem.” ‘The figure 
is from a plant in the Glasgow Botanic Garden. (Bot. Mag., 
Sept.) 
CLXX. Ervicee. 


521. AZAXLEA 4341 indica 
var. lateritia Lindl. brick-red-corollaed # (_)or2my Bri China 1833. Cp Bot. reg. 1700 


A beautiful variety, introduced from China by Mr. M‘Killigan 
(see IX. 474.), along with the lovely variegated-corollaed kind ; 
and, with it, was purchased by Mr. Knight. The plant is 
remarkably bushy, and abundant in leaves. ‘These are smaller 
than in A. indica itself; of a deep green, with a rusty tinge from 
numerovs brown hairs disposed about the midrib and margin: 
their surface, too, is covered with hairs. The flowers are of a 
bright clear brick colour, a little tinged with rose. (Bot. Reg., 
Sept.) 

CLXXXVI. Compdsite § Helichrysce. 
RHODA’NTHE Lindl. (Rhodon, a rose, anthos, a flower ; inner scales of the involucre rose- 
. coloured.) 19. 1. Sp. 1.— [18322 S It Bot. reg. 1702 
sii Lindl. Capt. Mangles’s ©  _] or 13? my.jn Ro.Y Swan River Col. New Holland 
. charming green-house annual, introduced, from the Swan 
colony, by Capt. Mangles, R.N. ‘This is the species of 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 513 


plant to which a prize was awarded by the Horticultural Society, 
as noticed in p. 412. Its habit seems peculiar: the stem bears 
broad leaves, which are quite smooth and rather glaucous; and 
is divided, upwards, into slender branches, each tipped with a 
rosy-rayed head of flowers. Its season of perfection is May 
and June, at which time there is nothing in the gardens that 
equals it in beauty; for it possesses the brilliancy of the Cape 
Helichrysa, without their stiffness and formality. It requires to 
be treated as a tender annual; yet too much heat seems to be 
particularly offensive to it. (Bot. Reg., Sept.) 

CXC. Cinchonaceze. 

638, GARDENIA 5285 florida 
fldre simplici Hook. single-flowered 2% [_]}fra5jn W_ E. Indies 1831? C 1p Bot. mag. 3349 
Probably a species distinct from G. flérida. See Bot. Mag., t. 3349. 

This delightfully fragrant shrub flowered, in June, 1834, in 
the noble gardens of Wentworth House, near Rotherham, York- 
shire; where it was received from the East Indies, and is treated 
as a stove plant. It is a shrub with numerous stout woody 
branches ; leaves oval or obovate; flowers large, very fragrant ; 
corolla pure white, soon turning yellow. (Bot. Mag., Sept.) 

648, MORI'NDA. [Bot. mag. 3351 
jasmindides Cun.  Jasminelike $ UL} cu6? ap Pabuff Port Jackson 1823? C lp 
In affinity near to M. parvifdlia Dec. Cun. 

A twining half-shrubby species; rare in shaded brushes of the 
colony of Port Jackson, where it was detected by Mr. Allan 
Cunningham, bearing its orange-coloured berries, in March, 
1821; by whom it was introduced to the Kew collection, whence 
the specimen figured had been derived. In habit, it resembles 
a Jasminum. (Bot. Mag., Sept.) 

CC. Polemoniacee. 


499. GI’/LI14. : ; ; 
tricolor Benth. three-coloured-covollaed © or1jl.s Li.P.O California 1833. S co Bot. reg. 1704 


Its foliage much resembles that of G. capitata ; but its flowers 
are very much longer, and are disposed, not into globose heads, 
but into large and rather dense panicles at the extremity of the 
peduncles; which are shorter than those in G. capitata, and 
very numerous. ‘The deep orange of the centre of the corolla, 
and the light purple or white of the margin, and a circle of deep 
purple which separates these, display each other to great advan- 
tage. G. tricolor “is quite hardy, and will grow in any kind 
of soil. ‘The time of flowering is from July to September ; but 
it may be retarded or advanced by a little management. Nothing 
can well be prettier than this is, when thickly filling a bed afew 
feet in length and breadth.” (Bot. Reg., Sept.) 


MonocoTyLEDONOUS PLANTS. 


CCXXXVIIL. Amaryllideze. {ap 


979, ALSTRGEME.RTIA. A el 
atirea Grah. golden-perianthed % A\ or 12 jn Go.spot Chiloe 1831. DJ.p Bot. mae 3350 
In habit near A, pulchélla, but smaller. (Grakam.) It appears to be the A. atirea Hort. “s 


514 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


Mag. IX. 490. The A. aurantiaca D. Don, Gard. Mag. TX. 622.; and the A. versicolor R. & P., 
Gard. Mag. X.71. If all these be but one, A. versicolor #. & P. is the earliest name, and, cons 
sequently, that to be preferred. 

Derived from Mr. Low of the Clapton Nursery; to whom it 
was imported, from Chiloe, by Mr. Anderson. In habit it 
approaches A. pulchélla; but probably will always be a much 
smaller plant. Stems 13 ft. high. Perianth orange-coloured : 
segments spreading ; the lower and the three outer of a nearly 
uniform colour, occasionally with one or two deep orange- 
coloured streaks; the two others more yellow below the apex, 
and having many such streaks down to their yellow nectariferous 
bases. (Bot. Mag., Sept.) 

CCXL. Orchidee. Dr. Lindley and Mr. Allan Cunningham 
(whom he quotes) have given, in the Botanical Register tor 
Sept., t. 1699., some suggestions incentive to the more success- 
ful cultivation of such exotic species of Orchideze, whether epi- 
phytal or otherwise, as require the stove and green-house in 
Britain. The spirit of the remarks is, that various species, even 
in some instances species of the same genus, differ so much in 
their constitution and native habits, that they will not thrive 
equally under one common treatment; and that, consequently, 
a knowledge of the constitution and native habits of any species, 
and the causing of the artificial conditions to be as identical as 
possible with the native ones, are necessary to the successful 
cultivation of it. 

We quote the given instances of anomalies: — Dendrobium 
speciosum languishes in situations where the stanhopeas are in 
their greatest splendour; and the Chinese bletias almost perish 
by the side of Eulophia and Zygopétalum. ‘This arises from 
the great difference in their respective constitutions, which are 
each adapted to distinct conditions of life....In the genus 
Oncidium itself, where almost all the species are of tropical 
habits, O. nubigenum is only found on the cool mountains of 
Peru, at the height of 14,000 ft.; it will, therefore, require a 
treatment altogether distinct from that of the mass of the genus. 
Dendrobium moniliforme and catenatum, again, occur only in 
Japan, as far north as 37° or 38°, or the parallel of Lisbon, and 
are periodically subject to a very low temperature. In New 
South Wales there are two or three species, which grow on 
trees or rocks, whose natural constitution should suggest to 
English cultivators of them a mode of treatment different from 
that uniformly adopted for epiphytes generally in our stoves ; 
namely, that in which high temperature and considerable humi- 
dity are employed. Dendrobium e’mulum Br., Cymbidium 
caniculatum Br., Dendrobium undulatum Br., are three instances. 
The first is uniformiy found upon the rugged trunk of Eucalyp- 
tus resinifera, or iron-bark tree, in the open very dry forest 
grounds of the older colony at Port Jackson. ‘The second has 


oH 
te 


supplementary to Lineyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 515 


been observed beyond the tropic, both at Moreton Bay and 
still farther southward at Hunter’s River, growing upon the 
principal limbs of several of the Eucalypti in the dry open 
shadeless forest. The third has been found upon barren hills, 
naturally clear of timber; upon the banks of the Brisbane River 
at Moreton Bay, where the plant forms tufts on bare rocks 
exposed to the full heat of the sun, which, during nine months 
of the year, is very considerable upon that part of the coast. 
Two additional instances given are, Ginnza australis and Karina 
mucronata. G. australis grows upon the branches of shrubs in 
Emu Bay, in Van Diemen’s Land, in about 41° s. lat. and 146° 
E. long. E. mucronata occurs as far to the northward as 35° s. 
lat., in humid forests, at the Bay of Islands, in New Zealand ; 
and exists, also, in abundance, in the very (permanently) damp 
woods which clothe the shores of Dusky Bay, lat. 45° 45’ s., on 
the western side of the larger or middle island of New Zealand. 
Considering the low rate of temperature which prevails in the 
southern hemisphere, as compared with the northern in corre- 
sponding latitudes, the station of E. mucronata is not naturally 
different from the damper parts of the south-west coast of 
Ireland. 

In relation to the subject of these remarks, we remember no- 
ticing, inp. 280., that Mr. Knight was, in May last, having a new 
house built for the culture of Orchideze. ‘This is now com- 
pleted ; and supplies, we have been told, in four distinct com- 
partments, a heated atmosphere and a cold one, a light one and 
a shaded one. 


2481. O/RCHIS. 
224840 folidsa Sol. _ leafy-spiked SY Alor 1 my P CanaryI. 1829? Dp.s.moss Bot. reg. 1701 


A fine species of O’rchis, native of woods and copses in 
Madeira; very much like the European O. latifolia, from which 
it differs in being larger in all its parts, &c. The specimen 
figured was supplied by Messrs. Young and Penny, nursery- 
men, Milford, near Godalming, Surrey ; in whose collection, so 
rich in Canary plants, the species has been some time culti- 
vated; and with whom it succeeds extremely well, either in 
well-drained pots, or a turf pit, in a soil composed of the turfy 
portions of heath mould, with a mixture of moss and sand. 
(Bot. Reg., Sept.) 


9540. ONCI’DIUM. 3 Bot. reg. 1699 
22693a ampliatum Léndl. broad-lipped €(Al)or2mr Y Central America 1832? D p.r.w 


In its pseudo-bulb and leaf like O. papilio; but very distinct 
in its flowers, and the disposition of them, ‘These are rather 
small, very numerous, and disposed in clusters along the branches 
of an upright panicle: the sepals are yellow, with the labellum 
white at the back. The figure is derived from a plant possessed 


by R. Harrison, Esq. (Bot. Reg., Sept.) 


516 General Notices. — Foreign Notices. 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. 1. General Notices. 


Action of Tannin, and some other Substances, on the Roots of Plants. By 
M. Payen.—It has been repeatedly stated that trees soon die when the roots 
come into contact with the remains of the roots of oak trees cut down near 
them. This was supposed to be owing to the action of the tannin in the oak 
roots. M. 2ayen, after making a number of experiments on the subject, ar- 
rived at the following conclusions :—1st, Tannin, even in small quantity, acts 
deleteriously on the roots of certain plants: 2dly, Acids in small proportions 
are hurtfu! to germination: 3dly, Alkalies in small quantity are favourable to 
the progress of vegetation: 4thly, The neutralisation of the acidity developed 
during germination hastens its progress, and favours the ulterior developement 
of the plant. These experiments account for one of the useful effects of 
lime, or vegetable ashes, and of calcareous marl; and also for the unfavourable 
influence of alkalies used in too great quantity, or unequally distributed. — 
(Journal de Chimie Médicale, April, 1834, as quoted in the Lond. and Edin. 
Phil. Mag. for August, 1834.) 


Art. II. Foreign Notices. 


INDIA. 


A PLANT-HOUSE for excluding Heat and growing British Plants—Mt. G. Porter, 
lately returaed from Penang, informs us that the Marchioness of Hastings, 
when resident in Calcutta as the wife of the Governor, had an immense con- 
servatory built, for the purpose of growing British plants and trees; the in- 
tention being to shut out the heat. Mr. Porter mentioned to the marchioness, 
that, instead of shutting out the heat, it would rather increase it; and, in con- 
sequence of experiencing this to be the case, the house, after costing an enor- 
mous sum, was applied to contain a few common articles that heat could not 
injure. After similar instances of extravagance and folly, it is not greatly to 
be wondered at that the East India Company have in a great measure ceased 
to patronise botanic gardens. 

A Botanic Garden in the Island of Penang was commenced in 1822 by Mr. 
George Porter, under the patronage of the then governor, Phillips. It was 
managed by Mr: Porter till 1828, when it was destroyed. Mr. Porter, when 
attached to the Calcutta Botanic Garden, prepared many specimens of plants 
for the herbarium of that establishment ; and subsequently, as Dr. Wallich 
informs us, in a letter dated March 24. 1834, sent home vast collections both 
of growing and preserved plants from that rich island. 


ArT. III. Domestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


THE Metropolitan Society of Florists and Amateurs had their grand show of 
georginas, roses, flowers, flowering plants, &c., at the Surrey Zoologica! Gar- 
dens, on August 13. and 14. The assemblage of company was most nume- 
rous, not less than 10,000 or 12,000 persons, it is stated in the newspaper 
reports, having entered the gardens in the course of the first day. The show 
of flowers was more than usually magnificent. Silver cups, and volumes on 
the science of horticulture, were the prizes awarded to the successful candi- 
dates by wnom the best flowers had been reared. The names of the nursery- 
men to whom the cups were adjudged were : — Messrs. Chandler, Widnall, 
Harding, and Wilmore, whose georginas were preeminent in magnificence and 


Domestic Notices : — England. 517 


splendour of colour. Mr. Brown was also the winner of a silver cup; and, 
among the amateurs, Messrs. Shepherd, Crowder, Lee, Alexander, and Salter 
obtained prizes. The prizes for the best pelargoniums were given to Mr. Hill 
and Mr. Gains; and Mr. Hopwood, Mr. Rivers, and Mr. Redding were parti- 
cularly successful in obtaining the prizes for collections of cut flowers, and hot- 
house and green-house plants. There were many other florists and amateurs 
to whom prizes were distributed, but the above were the principal winners ; 
and, indeed, so nearly equal were the merits of many of the competitors, that 
the judges had considerable difficulty in making their award. The animals in 
the gardens were in the highest condition; and were, of course, second only 
to the flowers in attracting the curiosity of the company. The rhinoceros was 
surrounded with a crowd of visiters of all ages; and the monkeys, parrots, 
elephants, &c., also came in for their share of attention. The very greatest 
praise is due to Mr. Cross, the principal proprietor of this establishment ; who 
not only gave the use of his grounds, for two days, gratis, but, as we were 
informed, was also at the sole expense of the numerous tents and the band 
of music; and, besides, subscribed 50/. to the Society. i 

Seeds received from Dr. Wallich of the Calcutta Botanic Garden.— Two 
cones of the Cédrus Deodara, from Kamoon. These abound m seeds, every 
one of which seems dead: small blisters, filled with oil, appear under the 
coats of most of them; and the embryo, on opening the seed, is found of a 
light brown colour, and dead. One of the cones we have retained entire as a 
specimen. A follicle of Sterculia alata Roxb., containing seeds in their natural 
position. ‘This is very interesting even if viewed only as a carpological 
specimen. The follicle is orbicularly pear-shaped, about 4 in. long and about 
as much across ; somewhat compressed, with walls half an inch thick; the 
seeds within are large, and rayedly disposed. Dr. Wallich remarks, that “ it 
is very many years since this fruit ripened in this garden: it occurred during 
my charge, and only one individual was produced. Last year, one tree bore 
fifty or sixty follicles, all of which ripened. The tree is a very stately one.” 
Five vials, occupied by seeds, and bearing labels thus inscribed: — 1. Limo- 
nia, Kamoon, Feb. 1834; 2. An Umbellifera, a Labiata, two Synanthérez 
[Compésite], and a Bixus from the foot of the Himalaya in Kamoon, Feb. 
1834; 3. Rosa, Baxus, Hullyato (a Synanthérea), and a Fumariacea from the 
foot of the Himalaya, Jan. 1834; 4. A Spirz‘a, Hippdphae conférta, and 
Deodar from the foot of the Himalaya in Kamoon, Feb. 1834; 5. Saussurea 
gossypiphora Dan [? Donn], Carduus obvallatus Wal/., Hippophae conférta 
Wall., Rosa sp., from the foot of the Himalaya, Jan. 1834. There are, besides, 
seeds in papers of the following species of plants: — Artemisza lactiflora 
Wall.; Bauhinia anguina, brachycarpa; Beaumoéntia grandiflora; Convolvulus 
sp. from Burma, sp. from Neelgherry, lacteus Wal/.; Clerodéndrum nutans, 
Délichos specidsus, Elodéa pulchélla, Helicteres pilchra Wall., Hibiscus 
violaceus. Numerous globular capsules, of a soft texture externally, within 
woody, and containing several small seeds, all of these of some one species of 
plant, have been introduced into the box as packing, seemingly, as there is not 
any mention of them. We shall distribute the seeds among the most enthu- 
siastic of the nurserymen and botanic gardeners. 

Tropical Fruit Trees imported for Lord Powis. — Mr. George Porter, ori- 
ginally of the Calcutta Botanic Garden, and, for the last thirteen years, a 
resident in the Island of Penang, has brought home, from Dr. Wallich, six 
mango trees of as many sorts, two Japan guavas, and two nutmeg trees, all in 
a healthy state, for the nobleman above mentioned ; a zealous horticultural 
amateur, who has the merit of having been the first to fruit the mango in 
England. 

Cones, from near the Gulf of Bothnia, of the Pine of Sweden. — Extract from 
a letter sent to J. B. Scott, Esq., Bungay, Suffolk, by J. Musgrave, Esq., of 
the County of Waterford; along with a bag of cones of the real Swedish pine, 
presented by the former of the two gentlemen to the Suffolk Botanic Garden, 
Bury St. Edmunds : —“ These cones are from the Pinus sylvéstris, the ori- 


Vou, X.— No. 55. 00 


518 Domestic Notices : —England. 


ginal Scotch pine; and were sent to me from Sundsyal, on the Gulf of Both- 
nia, where I saw some of the best forests in Sweden. The town 1s celebrated 
for the excellence of the red deals exported from it; and they are from this 
Pinus sylvéstris. The Pinus A‘bies [now A’bies excélsa], or spruce fir, pro- 
duces the white deals, which are of an inferior quality. The tar is produced 
from the roots of both species, but principally from those of the Pinus syl- 
véstris. The seeds are to be sown in or about March, in a light sandy soil ; 
and must be carefully protected from the birds by nets, until the seeds, which 
come up on the top of the plants, have dropped off; otherwise the birds, in 
picking the seeds, pull up the young trees. The seeds are to be covered with 
sand or light earth, merely thick enough to prevent them from being blown 
away by the wind. The cones, when placed in the sun, or exposed to a heat 
not greater than that of a place exposed to the sun in summer, will open ; 
and, by shaking them in a cloth, the seeds will drop out. Every seed has a 
small wing attached to it, which, by rubbing them between the hands, will 
come off. This is a beautiful provision of nature, made for dispersing the 
seeds; and, as the best cones grow near the summits of the highest trees, the 
seeds are thus carried to great distances.” —H. Turner. Botanic Garden, Bury 
St. Edmunds, Aug. 1834. [We feel obliged to Mr. Hodson, the superintendent 
of this garden, and to Mr. Turner, the curator, for sending us these cones for 
distribution. ] 

A Cockscomb was sent to us,on Aug. 6., by Mr. John Pattison, gardener to 
Jos. Trueman, Esq., Grosvenor House, Walthamstow, Essex, which mea- 
sured in height, from the pot to the surface of the flower, 2 ft. 4in.; one of 
the leaves measured 1 ft. in length, and 5in. across the broadest part ; and the 
flower 1 ft. 11 m. in length, and 15in. in breadth. Altogether, this was an 
erect, symmetrical, and very handsome plant. We placed it under a glazed 
veranda on a western aspect; and it is now (Sept. 1.) in as great beauty as 
the day it arrived. Mr. Pattison has promised to send us a paper on his mode 
of cultivation. 

The Galande Peach. — As I have not observed, in horticultural works, the 
Galande peach taken notice of in the way its great merits deserve (whether 
as to size, flavour, or appearance), I have sent a few specimens, taken indis- 
criminately from the tree, that you may (if you agree with me as to its qua- 
lities) specify it as one of our very best varieties of this excellent fruit: 
a point well worth knowing to those about to plant a peach wall. It is not 
mentioned in the summary of peaches in the Pomological Magazine (vil. 
114.), unless they suppose it synonymous with the Bellegarde; from which, 
I think, it slightly differs. I remember this struck me two months ago, on 
observing some fine specimens of the latter in the peach-house here. — John 
Thomas Brooks. Flitwick House, Aug. 21. 1834. 

The peaches received were most excellent, and more than justify the praise 
of our correspondent. They measured, on an average, about 10 in. round one 
way, and 83 in. the other. We sent one of them to Mr. Thompson, at the 
Horticultural Society’s Garden, who returned us the following note: — 

‘« The peach is the Bellegarde, to which the Galande is a synonyme. It is 
one of the very best sorts of peaches, and ripens in the middle season. It is 
also not apt to mildew ; which is a great recommendation. —Robt. Thompson. 
Horticultural Society’s Garden, Aug. 25. 1834.” 

Size of a White Eagle Gooseberry grown by Mr. Soltas, near Lancaster. 
Length 33 in., including the stalk and the remains of the blossom; length of 
the berry 2iin._ Breadth across 12in. Weight 19 dwts. ll grs. — JZ. Saul. 
Sulyard Street, Lancaster, July 31. 1834. 

A Cucumber, 21 in. long, was exhibited by Mr. Marshall, in Ipswich market, 
on May 31.; being grown by him, upon the plan recommended by Mr. Allen, 
in the short space of eight days, without under-heat or lining. (The Bury 
and Norwich Post and East Anglian, June 4. 1834. 

A Cabbage, weighing 38 lbs. without the stalk, was cut, in the first week in 
August, from the garden of the Rev. C. Mules of Muddiford, near Barnstaple, 
Devon. (Devon Advertiser, Aug. 22.) 


Domestic Notices : — Scotland. 519 


Unseasonable Inflorescence, §c.— Owing to the early spring, the warm 
summer, and the late abundant rains, many trees and plants are now in blos- 
som for the second time ; and trees in our own garden at Bayswater, such as 
Salisburia, Diospyrus, Sophora, &c., have made midsummer shoots, which do 
not generally do so. We have the Spire‘a bélla a second time in flower. 
The Caprifolium sinénse is also covered with profuse blossoms a second time ; 
or rather, it has never been completely out of blossom since May. The same 
may be said of the Wistarta Consequana, in the garden of the Horticultural 
Society. The following instances are from the newspapers: — There is, in 
the nursery-garden of Mr. Jeffery, St. Giles’s, Oxford, ‘a standard pear tree 
most beautifully in blossom. A gentleman, residing at Cooppersale, Essex, 
has in his garden a Hawthornden with fruit ready to gather, and, at the same 
time, a profusion of beautiful blossoms. In the garden of Mr. Slater, Newark, 
there is an apple tree full of beautiful bloom ; it is also loaded with fine large 
apples, bloom and ripe fruit on one branch. There is also, in the same gar- 
den, a plum tree in second bioom. There is now in Silver Street, Bedford, 
an apple tree bearing a second crop of fruit, which promises well; the first 
gathering was a good one. A gentleman on the borders of Herts has a 
cucumber tree [the Hercules club gourd, Cucirbita Lagenaria var. claviformis 
Lin., Lagenaria vulgaris var. clavata Ser. (see Vol. II. fig. 29.)] growing in his 
garden, the fruit from the vine hanging down, some of which measured 26 in. 
in length. In the garden of Mr. Martin, at Buckingham, is an apple tree in 
quite as full and beautiful blossom as trees usually are in the spring, although 
it has several fine apples on it. Many of the new blooms are set. (Weekly 
Dispatch, Aug. 25. 1834.) On Aug. 22., in the garden of Mr. John Bennett 
of Helston, a second crop of strawberries is ripe, from plants which bore 
abundantly at their proper season. This second crop is as large and as well 
flavoured as the first. 

New Varieties of Grain. — The Chevalier barley, mentioned p. 508., appears 
to have been cultivated near Liskeard, and to have produced extraordinary 
crops of a very superior quality. The Egyptian wheat (7riticum compésitum ), 
known in Mark Lane as Robinson’s Fancy, of which a fine specimen was 
lately sent to us, has produced larger crops than usual this season. 


SCOTLAND. 


The Caledonian Horticultural Society intended so to have arranged their 
annual dinner, as that the competition fruit might have been partaken of by 
the members of the British Association, who are to meet in Edinburgh on 
Sept. 7. On mature consideration, however, they found that they could not 
deviate from the day fixed in their prize list, which had been widely circulated 
six months before. This day is the 4th of September, and if any of the 
learned strangers should happen to be in Edinburgh by that time, there is 
every reason to believe that they will be invited to be present at the Society’s 
dinner. (Edinburgh Advertiser, Aug. 22.) é 

Dalkeith, Aug. 20.— All the gardeners in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh 
are exerting themselves to make a fine display by the time the British Asso- 
ciation for the Advancement of Science arrive in Edinburgh, as it is expected 
that they will visit most of the gardens in the neighbourhood. The park [that 
of Dalkeith] never looked better, but I am sorry that I cannot say quite so 
much for some parts of the gardens. A garden is no sooner full grown and 
in high order than it begins to decay, and get into confusion. The gardener 
does not always see this, because the changes come upon him so gradually, 
that he is not aware of their extent; and he is less aware of this than ever, 
when his place happens to be a celebrated one. I was in Edinburgh last 
week, and I never saw the botanic garden looking better. Many shrubs have 
flowered there this season, better than they ever did before, doubtless owing 
to the warmth of last summer, which ripened the wood, and that of the pre- 
sent season, which has heen so favourable for expanding the flowers. Inever 
saw the Althzea frutex look so well as it does in the nurseries this summer. 

00 2 


520 Retrospective Criticism. 


You recollect the immense silver firs at Woodhouselee. It is seven years 
since I was there, but my son informs me that they are still in vigour. It is 
now a good many years since I sent you my first communication [see I. 29.}, 
soon after which I went to a place in the north, from which I have just 
returned. — James Simson. 


IRELAND. 


Dublin, Aug. 12.— All foreboding of failure in the potato crop m this 
country is now at an end. I never remember such sultry weather as we have 
at present, and I have never before observed the air in such an extreme state 
of dryness as it was in Dublin this day. You have heard, I suppose, that our 
college has invited the British Association for the Advancement of Science to 
hold their next meeting in Dublin. I hope they may accept it. We are on 
the advance in those matters here. You have heard of the appoimtment of 
Mr. Nevin as curator to the Dublin Society’s Botanic Garden. He isa clever 
fellow, and is doing wonders there. The garden wears a new face already, 
and he has only been there about three months. — R. 


Art. 1V. Retrospective Criticism. 


CorkECTIONS.—In p.326., for “ Portsmouth rail-road” read “ Southampton 
rail-road;”’ and in p.329., for “ 16 ft. in diameter” read “ 16 ft. in cireum- 
ference.” In pages 296. and 352., for “ Clawance,” read “ Clowance.’ In 
fig. 70. p. 374., trees are put in the wall borders inside, which is a mistake 
of the engraver’s. 

Depressed State of the Nursery Business, (VIIi. 129. 134.) — On looking 
over some of the back volumes of your Gardener’s Magazine, I happened to 
cast my eye upon your remarks, relative to the depressed state of the nursery 
business; and, as this trade still remains in nearly the same condition, it will, 
perhaps, not be inopportune, if I now make a few observations on the causes 
which I think have produced this result. I by no means intend to impugn 
the justice of your conclusions, neither do I question but that the causes 
which you have assigned have, more or less, affected this business; but you 
have omitted to advert to one or two circumstances, which, in my opinion, 
have had a greater influence on this trade, than any of the reasons stated by 
you. 2 

Some time previous to the institution of the London Horticultural Society, 
a long and expensive war, with other circumstances, had caused a very great 
expenditure; trade and commerce had increased in a wonderful degree; in 
consequence of which rapid fortunes were made, and a taste for the luxuries 
and the elegancies of life extended in a surprising manner. In this state of 
things, it was not to be supposed that the pleasure to be derived from the study 
of botany, and the cultivation of plants, should be overlooked, and hence 
arose a great demand for plants, and an anxious desire, on the part of a vast 
number of individuals, to procure new ones from abroad. This in time pro- 
duced the London Horticultural Society, which, I believe, was originally insti- 
tuted principally for the purpose of procuring new plants from foreign coun- 
tries, and was commenced in a very humble way. I apprehend it was always 
in the contemplation of the Society to induce individuals, by bestowing some 
mark of distinction on them, to exert themselves in producing the finest speci- 
mens of fruits, &c., or in raising new varieties. If the Society had confined 
their views to these objects, they would have done all that was necessary for 
fostermg and extending the love of horticulture; but they were not con- 
tented with this: they considered it necessary to extend their operations, by 
taking a large place at Chiswick; and, for the purpose of defraying their in- 
creased expenses, converted a society, formed originally for the advancement 
of horticulture, into a trading company, for the sale of horticultural pro- 
ductions ; for this it manifestly has been for some years. To this cause is 


Fetrospective Criticism. 521 


mainly owing the present distressed state of the nursery business. The sub- 
scribers to this Society consider themselves entitled to procure plants, &c., 
from their garden, consequently they discontinue, generally speaking, to apply 
to the nurserymen; and, although I am aware that it must be impossible for 
the garden to supply plants to its members in any very extensive degree, still, 
as the opimion has gone abroad that they can be procured from this source, 
many wait patiently for their turn, rather than purchase from the trade: this 
notion also extends to the friends of the members, so that it is quite impossible 
to calculate the injury which is inflicted upon the industrious nurseryman. It 
would be in vain to expect the Society now to discontinue the practice of 
distributing plants, &c., to the members; their debts and difficulties render 
such a measure hopeless, because I am convinced it would cause a very great 
diminution in their annual receipts; but, whenever such a measure is practi- 
cable, its effect will be striking. In such a case, I would strongly recommend 
them to reduce the subscription to a much more moderate sum, and to confine 
their objects to the collecting’ of as many varieties of plants, fruits, &c., as 
possible ; and the encouraging of the cultivation and improvement of all horti- 
cultural productions, by bestowing some mark of distinction or reward when- 
ever merited. This last end cannot be better attained than by having periodical 
exhibitions similar to those of last year. 

It has been very generally believed that the Horticultural Society has been 
the means of extending the taste for plants, and that it has also greatly pro- 
moted the rapid improvements which have taken place, in the last few years, 
in our fruits and vegetables. This Iam not wholly prepared to deny, although 
I firmly believe that, had the Society never existed, the taste for plants would 
have extended, and the improvement in our fruits, &c., have taken place to a 
very great extent, and that without inflicting injury upon any particular class. 

Another cause of the badness of the nursery trade is, the practice, which 
very generally prevails, of noblemen and gentlemen selling their fruits, &c. ; 
and also allowing their gardeners to propagate and sell plants, for the pur- 
pose, no doubt, of contributing towards the expense of their garden establish- 
ments. ‘That noblemen should degrade themselves by sanctioning such a 
practice, is really extraordinary. Conceive a noble duke, or a royal one, if 
you please, sending his forced fruit and vegetables to Covent Garden Market. 
The aristocracy expect the people to respect them, and to consider them as 
something superior to the rest of the community; but, if they lower them- 
selves by becoming traders, how is it possible for them to command respect ? 
That the noble trader ever derives any benefit, in a pecuniary point of view, 
from such a system, I much question; but certain it is, that no money which 
they can gain will ever compensate them for the disgrace and contempt which 
it entails upon them from those whom they consider their inferiors. But, 
notwithstanding the little benefit which is conferred upon the aristocratic 
trader by the sale of his fruit, &c., it does most assuredly inflict great injury 
upon the nurserymen and market-gardeners, who depend upon the sale of 
their articles for their sustenance. To the above causes, together with those 
which you have pointed out, I am disposed to attribute the depressed state of 
the trade. It is frequently much easier to ascertain the source of an evil than 
to point out a remedy for it. In the present instance, I do confess, I see no 
immediate prospect of relief to the trade in question. Men will do what they 
please with their own; and, so long as human nature continues to be influ- 
enced by mere selfishness, I fear it is not to be expected that they will forego 
what they consider an advantage, purely for the sake of benefiting any trade 
whatever. The only thing, therefore, likely to produce a reaction is, the 
extension of the taste for plants and gardening. Floriculture is making rapid 
progress ; and, instead of being confined almost exclusively to the humble in 
life, as was the case some few years back, the taste for florists’ flowers has 
extended to many in the higher ranks. Let us hope, therefore, that, in a 
little time, the love of plants will become fashionable; and that a collection, 
at the seat of every nobleman, will form an indispensable appendage to the 


522 


Covent Garden Market. 


place. If the nobility would but turn their minds to the innocent, and, at the 
same time, rational, amusement of superintending the cultivation of their 
gardens, and enter into the spirit of the thing with the same enthusiasm as 
they do into many other less wise, and sometimes less justifiable, pursuits, 
how soon would they feel the benefit of the change! You have exerted your- 
self more, perhaps, than any other individual in promoting the interests of 
horticulture, and also for those employed in it: that your endeavours may be 
ultimately crowned with success, and that you may yet see a vast increase to 
the number of amateur gardeners, is the sincere wish of — LE. 


ART. V. Covent Garden Market. 


The Cabbage Tribe. 
Cabbage, White, per dozen - 
Red - 


Plants or Coleworts, per doz. 
Broccoli, Green, per bunch - 
Cape o = - 


Legumes. 
per half sieve ° 
Peas per sieve - - 
Kidneybeans, per half sieve 


Tubers and Roots. 
per ton - 
Potatoes - 5) percwt.  - 
Cper bushel 
Jerusalem Artichokes, per half; 
sieve - - - 
Turnips, White, per bunch 
Carrots, per bunch - 
Horn - o 
Red Beet, per dozen 
Scorzonera, per bundle 
Salsify, per bunch - 
Horseradish, per bundle 
Radishes : 
Red, per dozen hands (24 to 
30 each), per bunch — - 
White Turnip, per bunch 


The Spinach Tribe. 

. per sieve Bil ns 

Spinach per half sieve - 
New Zealand, per half sieve 

Sorrel, per half sieve - - 


The Onion Tribe. 


Onions, Old, per bushel «+ 
For pickling, per half sieve 
When green (Ciboules), per 

bunch = Boog 

*- Spanish, per dozen 

Leeks, per dozen bunches 

Garlic, per pound - 

Shallots, per pound ° 


Asparaginous Plants, 
Salads, &c. 
Lettuce, per score: 
Cos - = 4 
Cabbage - 
Endive, per score “ = 
Celery, new, per bundle (12 
to 15) = 3 
Small Salads, per punnet- 


Pot and Sweet Herbs. 


Parsley, per half sieve - 
Tarragon, per dozen bunches 
Fennel, per dozen bunches - 
Thyme, per dozen bunches 
Sage, per doze bunches’ - 
Mint, per dozen bunches) - 
Peppermint, per dozen bunches 
Marjoram, per dozen bunches 


ooo 


ocoocoecoo oor 


oo 


oo ooo oococooqo oS cooo 


ocooocoocoeo 


oor 


— 


Der HRODOF mtoo 


oo 


oo Foo COoOrFWOS oro oNnre 


He etstoH po 


Nolen a>) 


SHAHADPOKMST ADO 


Anocw on monorc ep) 


°mD ONO 


SOnanceoncona 


To 


& 


coooo & 
coorwo 


Ort 


ooo 


oooo oo cooocoeocoesg oot 
SS) Crormwmeoocoor %wo0O 


OOo 


ooooco co 
Soro wo 


oo coo 


or Or 


escocoecece 
Soocoowqnr 


wowne & 


wen 


= 
So ASSocaQnre Hn ODS 


oSon 


WO _ HON 


Sscoocooso 


Savory, per dozen bunches - 


|Basil, per dozen bunches = - 


Rosemary, per dozen bunches 
Tansy, perdozen bunches - 


Stalks and Fruits for Tarts, 
Pickling, §c. 


Vegetable Marrow, per dozen 
Gourds, per dozen - - 
Tomatoes, per half sieve - 
Capsicums, per hundred: 
Green - oO G 
Ripe, Large - S 
Chilies = S s 
Edible Fungi and Fuci. 
Mushrooms, per pottle - 


Morels, per pound - - 
Truffles, English, per pound 
Foreign - - - 


Fruits. 

Apples, Dessert, per bushel : 
Ribston Pippins - 
Downtons - - 
Russets - - - 
Gough Pippins B88 

Baking, per bushel --  - 

Pears, Dessert, per half sieve 
Bergamot - Ces 
Swan’s Eggs = 
Chaumontels . 

Baking, per half sieve 

Peaches, per dozen - 

Almonds, per peck - 

Damsons, per sieve - - 


||Mulberries, per gallon (tw 


pottles) “ Sues 
Blackberries, per half sieve 
Berberries, per half sieve - 
Elderberries, per bushel - 
Walnuts - c A 
Filberts, English, per 100 Ibs. 
Hazel Nuts, per peck 5 
Pine-apples, per pound - 
Grapes, per pound : 
Hot-house - - 
From the open wall - 
For Wine, per 112 pounds 
Melons, each - 5 
Cucumbers, § per hundred - 
Pickling ? per thousand 


per dozen} So 
Oranges ee hundred 


perdozen “= - 
Temons Ee hundred - 
Dates, per pound - - 
Sweet Almonds, per pound 
Brazil Nuts, per bushel S 
Spanish Nuts, per peck - 
New - - - 
Barcelona Nuts, per peck - 
Kgegs of Sikworms, per paper 


ooo ooo 
SeoOr EOO 


coro 
roy 
BOR eS 


= a 
BOOP PPR DA BraIPrwomponetcocwp 


= 
CHAOS AOS BP Or toto Om co Or 


—_ 


0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
9 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
4 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 


coos NOD 


onoce 


OSDSoseoooseooonceons SDSONSOARS S®SHASHRSCOASSOSS 


eoeceeooooeroocooorss conecoocoos ocoocoocecscoocosce3d 


— 


SWS EPOMP SIO WOWOONUANWD DOCWOSOUNSHOCSCON 


— 


ool oCur 


ccooo & 


Ase ooe 


ooond 


Sr rooooceooooeoweooasa sceoocooans coecococencosooo 


London Horticultural Society and Garden. 523 


Observations.—The supplies to the market are continued in abundance. 
The demand being limited, the prices are correspondingly very moderate. The 
weather having been particularly favourable to the growth of vegetable pro- 
ductions during the last month, we may confidently anticipate a full supply 
through the months of October, November, and up to Christmas. Should the 
weather still prove favourable, there can be little doubt of plenty being fur- 
nished throughout the whole of the winter. The prevalence of wet during the 
month of August has contributed materially to improve the crop of potatoes, 
which are now supplied from the home districts in tolerable abundance. Some 
few cargoes have already arrived from Jersey, which have not yet been dis- 
posed of, although offered at the very low price of 50s. the ton. The crops 
of green vegetables, such as turnips, colewort, cabbages, parsneps, and carrot, 
are now coming to hand in the utmost profusion, at a ruinous loss to the 
growers. Onions are in great plenty ; the recent dry weather being favourable 
to ripen them, they are now fit for housing for winter use. French beans are 
still supplied in great plenty, and will be no doubt for some time, should early 
frosts not intervene. Broccolies of the early varieties are already coming in, so 
that the market offers at this season more than its usual abundance. Of wal- 
nuts we continue to receive large supplies from Holland and the Netherlands, 
our own crop being very short: they are in demand at remunerating prices. 
Although we have a most excellent crop of grapes, supplies from Holland of 
the black Hamburgh variety are imported: with some peas, &c., from Jersey. 
Our crop of apples is most abundant. The market continues to be furnished 
most plentifully, the prices of the common varieties hardly paying the expense 
of transport from the more distant counties, from which we are usually fur- 
nished at this season. Filberts, in consequence of the crop being nearly ex- 
hausted, have risen considerably in price, and are still in demand. Considerable 
quantities of melons from Holland have been received; prices very moderate : 
a few late peaches and some pears are also to be observed, but the crop of 
the latter is so small that but few can be expected.—G.C. Sept. 20. 1834. 


Art. VI. London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


SEPT. 2.—Evhibited. A seedling Fuchsia, originated between F. globdsa 
and F. virgata, from Mr. H. Silverlock. 'Téton de Venus peaches and nec- 
tarines from Pitcairn, Esq., Twickenham Common. Chrodlepus Iélithus, 
from the Right Hon. Sir Augustus Foster, Bart. Apples of the kinds, Manx 
codlin, Keswick codlin, scarlet pearmain, and yellow Ingestrie, from Mr. J. 
Kirke. Flowers of twenty-eight varieties of georginas from Messrs. Chandler. 
A double sunflower from Mr. Jacob Hall, gardener to Lord Wharncliffe, 
Broom House, Fulham. 

Also, from the Society's Garden, flowering specimens of Fachsia sp. from 
Port Famine, Thryallis brachystachys, Gesnérza rutila, Silene laciniata, Heli- 
chrysum bracteatum album, Solanum laciniatum ; Escallonia rubra, montevi- 
dénsis; Chirdnia trinérvis, China asters, China roses, georginas, seedling 
georginas; late admirable peaches. Jupinus albifrons, ornatus; Salvia in- 
volucrata, Hibiscus africanus, /Madia élegans, &c. Pears: Hessel, this is a 
very abundant bearer; green pear of Yair, of the few Scotch pears that 
deserve cultivation this is one; grise bonne. Apples: old English codlin, 
Dutch codlin; Gravenstein, the fruit of this kind have not grown so fine as 
usual, probably owing to the dry weather; crimson queening, spice, Kerry 

ippin. 
3 U The Show at the Horticultural Society’s Gardens, on Sept. 13., was as well 
attended as could be expected, considering that the fashionable world at this 
season are always out of town. The display of georginas was most splendid ; 
but it was greatly injured in effect by the want of classification of the kinds. 
Only two attempts were made at classification; and though confessedly done 
in great haste, yet the result to us was very satisfactory. One of these at- 
tempts was made by Mr. Veitch of Exeter, but the name of the party who 


524 London Horticultural Society and Garden. 
a 

made the other we could not learn. Had reading gardeners been the principal 
exhibitors of these georginas, we are persuaded that what we have before said 
on the subject of classification would not have been lost on them ; but prac- 
tical men, we shall be told, are not to be taught their business by books, or 
bookmakers. So much the worse for them. Among the plants exhibited, 
was a very fine specimen of Anigozanthos rufa, from the Swan River, from 
seed sent to Robert Mangles, Esq., by Sir James Stirling, sown in August, 
1833. It is a half-hardy hemodoraceous plant, with leaves like an iris, 
about 2ft. high; a free grower and flowerer, and likely to ripen abundance of 
seeds. Its tubular corollas are of a dark crimson colour, running at the base 
into a deep velvet-like bluish green, which gives the whole a parrot-like 
aspect, and harmonisies well with the trees and paroquets of Australia. A 
beautiful silver-leaved Quércus Z‘lex was exhibited by Mr. Veitch. A dried 
specimen of a new hardy climber, Physianthus undulatus, which flowers from 
August to winter, was shown us, and, when plants can be obtained in the 
nurseries, it will probably be found as great an acquisition as Lophospérmum, or 
Calampelis. Among the fine specimens of old plants were Oncidium papilio 
(of which we recently received a drawing and dried specimen from Dr. 
Hamilton at Plymouth), a very handsome Brugmansia suavéolens, numerous 
fuschias, &c. Among the fruits were very fine melons, pine-apples and grapes. 
Among the articles shown incidentally was an improved orange tub of slate, 
which we shall hereafter figure and describe. The following prizes were 
awarded :— 

The gold Banksian medal: 1. To Mr. C. Dowding, gardener to Lady Clarke, 
for miscellaneous fruit ; 2. To Mr. Redding, gardener to Mrs. Marryat, F.H.S., 
for miscellaneous plants; 3. To Mr. C. Brown, F.H.S., for a collection of 
100 georginas; 4. To Mr. Glenny, F.HLS., for a collection of 100 georginas. 

The large silver medal: 1. To Mr. Atlee, gardener to T. Farmer, Esq., 
F.HL.S., for grapes; 2. To Mr. R. Buck of Blackheath, F.H.S., for Muscat 
grapes; 3. To Mr. Fletcher, gardener to George Smith, Esq., for a queen 
pine; 4. To Mr. William Bridden, gardener to Mrs. Myddelton Biddulph, for 
a New Providence pine; 5. To Mr. J. Loudon, gardener to Samuel Gurney, 
Esq., F.H.S., for green-fleshed melons; 6. To Mr. William Lindsay, gardener 
to the Duke of Devonshire, F.H.S., for Gansel’s bergamot pears; 7. To 
Mr. Jarvis, of Turnham Green, for beurrée Diel pears; 8. To Mr. Joseph 
Kirke, F.H.S., for a collection of apples; 9. To Mr. Upright of Morden, for 
miscellaneous plants; 10. To Mr. George Mills, F.H.S., for miscellaneous 
plants; 11. To Messrs. Rollison of Tooting, for Epidéndron cuspidatum ; 12. 
To Mr. Stephen Hooker, F.H.S., for China and perpetual roses; 13. To 
Messrs. Rollison, for miscellaneous roses; 14. To Mr. Widnall of Cambridge, 
for a collection of 100 georginas; 15. To Mr. Gaines of Surrey Lane, Bat- 
tersea, for a collection of 100 georginas; 16. To Mr. C. Brown of Slough, 
F.H.S., for a collection of 25 georginas; 17. To Mr. Widnall of Cambridge, 
for a collection of 25 georginas. 

The silver Banksian medal: 1. To Mr. Clews, F.H.S., for black Hamburgh 
grapes; 2. To Mr. Spong, gardener to Robert Gordon, Esq. M.P. F.H.S., 
for melons; 3. To Mr. Jarvis of Turnham Green, for apples; 4. To Mr. 
Boone, gardener to S. Warner, Esq. F.H.S., for citrons; 5. To Mr. Cuthill, 
gardener to Lawrence Sullivan, Esq. F.H.S., for cucumbers; 6. To George 
Robins, Esq. F.H.S., for Yucca aloifolia; 7. To Mr. Spence, gardener to R. 
Durant, Esq. F.H.S., for Brugmansia arborea ; 8. To Mr. Mountjoy of Ealing, 
for heartsease; 9. To Mr. C. Brown of Slough, F.H.S., for miscellaneous 
heartsease ; 10. To Mr. Rivers of Sawbridgeworth, for China asters; 11. To 
Mr. Brewer of Cambridge, for seedling georginas; 12. To Mr. Henderson, 
gardener to Captain Foster, F.H.S., for seedling georginas; 13. To Mr. 
Wilner of Sunbury, for 25 varieties of georgina; 14. To Mr. Molier of 
Fifield, Berks, for 25 varieties of georgma; 15. To Mr. Catleugh of Hans 
Street, Sloane Street, for a collection of 100 georgina pots. 


i 
ea 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
| NOVEMBER, 1834. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Art. I. Observations made during a Horticultural Tour through the 
Eastern Part of the County of Fife. By Mr. Witi1am SMITH, 
Gardener to John Small, Esq., the Priory, St. Andrew’s, Fifeshire. 


Havine recently made a horticultural journey round the eastern 
extremity of the county of Fife (or the East Nook, as it is com- 
monly called), in company with a neighbouring gardener, we 
agreed that a detailed account of what came under our observ- 
ation would not be unacceptable to you for insertion in your 
Magazine, and especially to your readers in this quarter, who 
are acquainted with the places at which we called. Through 
the great kindness of our employers, we were each supplied 
with a horse; and we may remark, that such liberal conduct on 
the part of masters cannot fail to gain the willing obedience, 
diligence, and gratitude of their servants in return. Leaving 
St. Andrew’s in the morning, we proceeded along the coast on 
the Crail road: the country on each side is almost regularly 
studded with compact modern farm-steadings; the fields are 
well enclosed, either with stone walls or with thorn hedges. 
The farmers in this country generally prefer the former, as not 
harbouring birds, &c.; but stone walls, when combined with a 
great want of detached trees, and also of plantations, give to any 
country, however well cultivated, a bare and barren appearance. 
On approaching the residence of Mr. Glass of Smiddy Green, 
the country begins to assume a better appearance, both in stripes 
and masses of plantation. ‘The mansion-house of Smiddy Green 
is beautifully situated on the top of a steep bank, covered with 
shrubs and trees; but, from the road, it has the appearance of 
being buried among them; and a judicious thinning is required 
to give the traveller, at least, a glimmering view of it. A little 
farther on commence the grounds of Lerd Pitmilly, formerly 
a judge of the Court of Session. Walls, hedges, hedgerow 
trees, and plantations are here to be seen in great variety; and 
in the park are some very large beeches and other kinds of trees, 
Vou. X.— No. 56. PP 


526 Horticultural Tour through 


as well as some small clumps, &c. Mr. Ingram, the gardener, 
showed us round the kitchen-garden; the surface of which is 
quite level, and is in the form of an oblong square. The 
hot-houses are placed rather beyond the centre (their proper 
place), and there is no central walk in front of them, which a 
large garden like this should by no means be without; and 
more particularly a garden of this form. ‘The soil here i is of a 
loamy nature, and well suited to apples, pears, &c. The trees 
are beautifully trained, chiefly in the horizontal form, and bear 
fine crops. Mr. Ingram disapproves of dwarf standards along 
the walk borders, and is substituting straight espaliers in their 
stead. On entering the hoethonses, we were rather surprised 
at Mr. Ingram’s system of management, particularly as regarded 
thinning the bunches, which, we must say, is carried to an ex- 
tent we never before witnessed. ‘The Royal white sweetwater 
was certainly very large; but the Muscat, Hamburgh, Fron- 
tignac, &c., were not remarkable in size of berry, with the 
same treatment. In the peach house, the trees were in remark- 
ably good order and good health, with a fine crop of fruit. 
This house is merely covered with glass in the summer, which 
is removed in winter, and is, in ear nothing more than a pro- 
tected wall, without fire heat: it contains room enough, how- 
ever, for the management of the trees; and, although not a very 
pleasant object to the eye, answers all the purposes of a large 
peach house. On the east end of the vinery is a small neat 
green-house, lately built, which contains some good plants and 
tender annuals. On the outside of the garden is a range of 
cold melon pits, surrounded with a rockwork almost covered 
with the coarser kinds of creeping and rock plants. Mr. In- 
gram is very successful in raising seeds of the Primula prze‘ni- 
tens, which he attributes to his method of distributing the 
pollen and effecting the proper impregnation of the flowers, 
which is merely to blow occasionally on the flowers of the 
plants while they remain expanded. 

Proceeding forward, we next arrived at the neat little village 
of Kingsbarns, which strongly reminded us of the appearance 
of an English village: the church with its spire and willow 
trees, the neat little schoolhouse, the alehouse, and the farm- 
yards, all grouped pleasingly together; and the general neat and 
clean exterior of the houses, with the road leading through the 
centre, increased the illusion: in short, nothing was wanting, 
but the mansion of the lord of the manor, to perfect the resem- 
blance of a true English village. 

We next entered the grounds of Sir David Erskine, Bart., of 
Cambo. Having found Mr. Falconer, the gardener, at hfs 
house, which is at least a mile from the garden, we proceeded 
on in that direction. ‘The fields here are well enclosed, and 


the Eastern Part of Fife. 52% 


sheltered with narrow slips of plantation; and in each is a neat- 
shed, for the protection of the cattle in stormy weather. The 
grounds have a gentle declivity towards the sea; and in the 
park there are several undulations, and a few detached trees and 
groups, &c., with the carriage drive winding gracefully among 
them ; though, in our opinion, it appr oaches too str aight in front 
of the house. From our view of the house, it appear red to form 
the two sides of a square, with a semicircle in the centre. It has 
a fine lofty appearance, with the larger trees at a reasonable dis- 
tance from it. Entering the garden by the north entrance, we 
at once perceived it to be a natural garden, that is, the surface 
of the ground in its natural form, with a small brook running 
through the centre, over which are several neat cast-iron bridges. 
In the hot-houses were fair crops of grapes; but in the black 
grapes there was a great deficiency of colouring, notwithstanding 
Mr. Falconer’s giving strong fire and sun Theat: This is a 
general complaint this season; and we, in the hot-houses under 
our Own management, are not exempt from it. In another part 
of the garden is the peach house, without fire, with trees trained 
on the front sashes, with openings between, to admit light for 
those on the back wall. In this house were good crops of 
peaches and nectarines. Mr. Falconer has raised seven kinds 
of nectarines from seed, and has them all budded and bearing 
on one tree. We gave him a lecture for not bringing them into 
notice through the medium of the Horticultural Society of Edin- 
burgh. Here are two fine ranges of melon pits, with covered-in 
linings, and surrounded by a rockwork. Mr. Falconer is very 
snasescen. in the culture of early melons; but, as far as we 
could learn, his practice does not differ froni that of others. The 
flower-garden is small, but neat, and contains some fine speci- 
mens of rare plants. ‘The kitchen-garden produces all sorts of 
fruits and vegetables; but, for a country garden, our opinion is, 
that its best features are lost by such a monotony of shrubs. 
We very much object to shrubs, yea, even standard fruit trees, 
within the walls of a garden at all. 

On leaving the beautiful grounds of Cambo, the country 
again begins to look bare, and especially towards the extreme 
point of land called the East Nook. We now pass the town of 
Crail, which we did not enter, but turned eastward along the 
north bank of the Forth. The country now assumes a fine ap- 
pearance in the low grounds; but the hills in the distance are 
like Agronome’s fine-dressed lady, wanting the head-dress; that 
is, not in unison with the country below. 

Passing Kilrenny, we next come to Anstruther, an ancient- 
looking town, famous for being the scene of the famed ballad of 
Maggy Lauder. Passing through a most ruinous street, all in 
a confusion of repairing, we observed, on a new house, a most 

ip ie 


528 Horticultural Tour through 


singular group of rams, goats, cows, and elephants, in various 
standing postures : — 


« Some seem’d to muse, 
Some seem’d to dare, with feature stern.” 


These are all formed with shells in alto-relievo. The front of 
the house is also beautifully ornamented with large sea shells 
stuck close together, and has a fine effect. Various other figures 
are on the west side; and several curiously entwined crowns of 
rams’ horns complete the whole. A little farther up the street 
is to be seen the following scene, painted from Burns’s famous 
poem of Tam o’ Shanter : — 
“ As bees bizz out wi’ angry fyke, 

When plundering herds assail their byke ; 

As open pussie’s mortal foes, 

When pop she starts before their nose ; 

As eager runs the market crowd, 

When ‘ Catch the thief!’ resounds aloud ; 

So Maggie runs ; the witches follow, 

W? mony an eldritch screech and hollo.” 


The next town is Pittenweem. The road passes on the north 
side, and we did not enter the town. In a straight line north of 
this is situated the estate of Grangemioor, the seat of the Hon. 
W. Keith Douglas. ‘This place is at present undergoing ex- 
tensive alterations and improvements. A new approach road, 
the porter’s lodge, the gardener’s house, and kitchen-garden, 
with part of the hot-houses and orchard, present a fine spectacle 
to the traveller coming from Pittenweem. On finding Mr. 
Weir, the gardener, who was very busily employed, he first 
showed us through the flower-garden, a very neat little spot, 
containing no commonplace plants, but planted wholly with 
those most lately acclimatised, georginas, &c. Attached to this 
is a small green-house, in which we observed some of the latest 
introduced tender plants. A few yards onward are the pinery 
and melon-ground. The pines were young, healthy, and plunged 
in bark; and the pits contained moderate crops of melons, &c. 
The colour of these pits was green, which we disliked, it being 
too much in unisen with the surrounding scenery. We next 
entered the kitchen-garden, and at one glance could perceive 
that it was to our taste. Here were no ‘“ mixtie maxtie queer 
hotch potch,” but straight walks, straight espaliers, few flowers, 
no shrubs, and not a single standard tree. The crops of fruit 
were excellent, and the keeping of the finest polish; in short, we 
may say that it was a perfect model for a country garden. In 
town gardens there are some allowances to be made, for shrubs, 
flowers, and vegetables being mixed up together; but in the 
country, where ground is no object, we see none whatever. 
Behind this garden are the hot-houses, two in number, in which 


the Eastern Part of Fife. 529° 


were good crops of grapes, especially of the Black Hamburgh. 
Here we observed, as well as at other places, that incurable dis- 
ease called the damping or shriveling of the footstalks of the 
berries and bunches, notwithstanding what has lately been 
written in this Magazine. Mr. J. D. P. says that the cause is 
cold damp air, and the cure plenty of fire heat. We are also 
strong advocates for plenty of heat, air, and water: ovr opinion, 
however, is, that the evil is not contained in the atmosphere of 
the house at all; but is a defect of the roots of the vine, and a 
want of proper nourishment; for every gardener knows that the 
disease first shows itself when the greatest demand is made upon 
the roots by the crop; and if it be a heavy one, the greater is 
the disease. In our opinion, the best way to cure the disease, 
or, at least, to lessen the evil, is to keep the vine border well 
mulched until the fruit is fully swelled, and then lightly to fork 
up the surface of the border. We would also thin well the 
bunches ; give plenty of heat, air, and water; and not allow the 
vine to bear too large a crop. Leaving the hot-houses, we en- 
tered another small flower-garden, in which are some clipped 
yews of various figures, and some fancy seats. ‘The mansion- 
house is situated on an eminence a considerable distance from 
the gardens ; and the views from it are most delightful. A fine 
smooth spacious lawn lies in front, with a finely undulating sur- 
face of park, adorned with clumps of trees. The beautiful Forth, 
with its islands and rocks, North Berwick Law, and the Lothians 
in the distance, terminate the scene. When the planting and 
building about this place are finished, it will be one of the best 
in this quarter of the country. 

About a mile to the west of Grangemoor is Balcaskie, the 
seat of Sir Ralph Anstruther, Bart.; a fine old place, with the 
gardens in the ancient terraced style. ‘The house has under- 
gone extensive repairs and alterations in its former style of 
architecture. ‘The lawn in front is in the form of a: parallelo- 
gram, divided in three parts by broad holly hedges, neatly 
squared up. In the eastern division is a well laid out modern 
flower-garden; a great number of small figures forming one large 
one, with a dial in the centre. This garden was well stocked 
with the most rare hardy plants, creepers, &c. In the middle 
and western divisions are some most magnificent laurustinuses, 
the largest we have seen in Scotland; and these, with the fine 
breadth of lawn between them, we should have greatly preferred 
to any cutting or carving whatever on the grass of beds for 
flowers. On the west wall were some ornamental vases with 
flowers and ornamental plants. The next terrace is a kitchen- 
garden ; and the lowest of all, a kitchen-garden and orchard. 
Here were some fig trees bearing good crops. These two last- 


mentioned gardens are sadly dilapidated by the hand of time; 
PP 3 


530 Horticultural Tour through 


but they are to be renewed and improved next year. On each 

side of the carriage drive to the house are some of the plant- 

ations formed by Mr. Gilpin, the outlines of which are most 

laboriously twisted and turned about. The same interesting 

views are to be had here as at Grangemoor. ‘The gardener 

here was from home, and consequently our stay was short. 
Leaving Balcaskie, the admirer of 


“ Nature’s hills and woods, 
Her sweeping vales, and foaming floods,” 


has a most interesting scene before him: the castellated tower of 
Balcarres, appearing like a ruin among the trees; the lofty spire 
of Kilconquhar church; the neat little village of Collinsburgh ; 
the mansion house of Pitcorthie, glimmering through the trees ; 
the stately Law [hill] of Largo, clothed with verdure to the top; 
and, beyond all, the spacious Forth, with numerous gentlemen’s 
seats upon its banks, &c., are truly noble materials for the painter. 
Having reached Balcarres, the seat of Lieutenant-Colonel James 
Lindsay, we found Mr. Brewster, the gardener, immersed in the 
variety of business in which a large garden like this often neces- 
sarily involves its conductor. We entered the garden from the 
gardener’s house, which is a very commodious one of two stories. 

In the hot-houses (three in number) the crops of grapes were 
good, with some very superior bunches of Black Hamburgh. 

These houses were formerly on the hanging trellis system in- 
vented by Mr. Reid, formerly gardener “here; but it is now 
removed, and a tr ellig of wires parallel with the glass substituted 
in its stead. We next passed through a newly laid out kitchen- 
garden, in excellent order. In the corner of this is a small 
green-house containing some large specimens of Epiphyllum 
speciosum, Céreus speciosissimus, and many other succulent 
plants. From this we entered a large fruit-garden with no spade 
culture except on the wall-tree borders ; and Mr. Brewster does 
not condemn the practice. ‘The wall trees are beautifully trained 
in the fan manner; and the centre of the garden is wholly 
planted with standard fruit trees and gooseberry bushes. ‘The 
broad centre grass walk is planted on each side with georginas 
and an immense variety of heartsease. With such an assemblage 
of colours before us, these lines of the poet stole slowly through 
our minds: 


“ Who can paint 

Like Nature? Can Imagination boast, 
Amid its gay creation, hues like hers ? 

Or can it mix them with that matchless skill, 
And lose them in each other, as appears 

Tn every bud that blows?” 


In the peach house were good crops of peaches and_ nectarines, 
trained on a hanging and table trellis, and on the back wall, in 


the Eastern Part of Fife. 531 


good order. The flower-garden is newly laid out, and is a piece 
of splendid workmanship, independently of the plants with which 
itis adorned. ‘The upper half is in grass, with neatly cut figures, 
with some large Irish yews judiciously disposed over the surface. 
The figures in the other half are formed with box, and the spaces 
are gravelled. The proprietors, and more especially the lady, 
are most zealous promoters of horticulture and fioriculture; con- 
sequently every plant that is mew or rare soon finds its way 
hither. There are interspersed over the garden low seats of 
China ware, chiefly blue, but of various shades and forms, which 
add greatly to the beauty of the scene. On the north is situ- 
ated a new substantially built green-house, containing many pre- 
cious gems, with a small piece of rockwork planted with the finer 
sorts of rock plants. Mr. Brewster next showed us an extensive 
range of pine and melon pits; but the culture of the pine is now 
discontinued. ‘The melons were good, and the cucumbers most 
astonishing ; one, in particular, measured almost 2 ft. 6 in., and 
was perfectly straight. Our opinion of this place is, that there 
are too many fruit trees in the interior of the garden; but we 
believe these were planted as an experiment in shallow planting 
by Mr. Reid: and the hot-houses, &c., are faulty in being scat- 
tered up and down the gardens. Besides the inconvenience 
that must attend their working, what a noble appearance these 
extensive houses would have had, if they had been placed in 
one line! Great credit is due to Mr. Brewster for the orderly 
manner in which this place is kept; and it needs not to be told 
in this quarter that he is most enthusiastically devoted to his 
profession. 

The last place we shall notice is Strathtyrum, the beautiful 
seat of Mrs. Cheape: it is situated on an extensive piece of 
elevated ground commanding a fine view of the city and bay of 
St. Andrew’s. The gates and lodge front the Cupar road, and 
have a very neat appearance; but the approach road from the 
gate towards the house is very objectionable. ‘The trees are 
planted close to the verge of the road, and meet at the top; so 
that, when looking from the gate, we can compare it to nothing 
else but a tunnel; and this must be obvious to any one who has 
a notion of planting. Had the trees been planted 30 ft. from each — 
side of the road, how different would have been the effect, com- 
pared with the present! On the south side of the mansion-house 
is a fine flower-garden, in which is an elegant conservatory, con- 
taining a fine collection of camellias and other plants in the free 
soil, with a large stage in the centre for green-house plants, of 
which there are a great many. In the flower-beds are many 
new and rare plants, and an extensive collection of georginas in 
masses. ‘The flower-beds are rather formal, and would require 

oD es 


532 Moss House in the Flower-Garden 


some alteration to bring them down to the present state of the 
gardenesque. The kitchen-garden is situated to the east of this 
elevated ground, where it falls abruptly, or, we may say, almost 
perpendicularly. It is surrounded by thriving woods, and, from 
its low situation, escapes every blast that blows. ‘There are two 
fine grape houses and an extensive peach house, all which have 
borne excellent crops this season; and a fine melon pit, with 
other frames. The cultivation of grapes and melons is the hobby 
of Mr. M‘Henley (the gardener), and he is eminently success- 
ful. Some large melons have been grown by him in this and 
the last year; but, above all, in 1832, he produced a fruit of the 
Royal George melon weighing 27 lbs. avoirdupois, which is the 
largest that has been grown in Scotland. We saw no difference 
in his culture of the melon from that of other gardeners, only 
that he waters liberally all over the plants at all times. ‘This 
garden has been very much improved under the management of 
Mr. M‘Henley, and more especially the box edgings, which are 
now very neat. 
The Priory, Aug. 23. 1834. 


Art. II. A Description of the Moss House in the Flower-Garden at 
Bagshot Park. Designed and executed by Mr. Andrew Toward, 
Gardener to Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Gloucester. 
Communicated by Mr. Towarp. 


I HEREWITH send you a description of the moss house in the 
flower-garden of Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Glouces- 
ter, at Bagshot Park. The form is an irregular heptagon 
(fig. 89.), with a Gothic portico in front, supported on rustic 
pillars. The ceiling of the portico is inlaid with moss of various 
colours, representing a star and diamonds, as shown in jg. 93., 
with a cornice of pinaster cones. ‘The floor under the portico 
is a copy of the ceiling in different-coloured elliptical-shaped 
stones of a small size. On each side of the doorway are panels 
formed in the rustic style with different-coloured woods. The 
entrance into the house is Gothic; opposite to which are two 
Gothic windows with stained glass of various colours; under 
these are four square panels with a large diamond in the centre 
of each, all formed with moss. Along the sides, between the 
doorway and the windows, are seats (jig. 89. a) made of stamed 
cherry tree: above these is a skirting of rustic wood 18 in. deep 
(see J in fig. 92.), the surbase of which projects about three 
eighths of an inch beyond the moss, to prevent the back from 
brushing against it. ach side above the skirting is divided 
into four square panels (see jig. 92.), and these into a succes- 


at Bagshot Park. 533 


: oe 


— 
fr . 
\ 


A LZ 

iy 
| 
(| ) 
“\ : - ff 
\. L/ 
AZ 


ee ee ee 


© 


a te i ee 
a a a ee oe oe et oe 

ia} 

v 

us 

- 
ee a — ee 


©. 


© 


Ground plan of the moss house and portico: a@ a, the seats. 


sion of squares (£). On the right and left of the Gothic entrance 
is an oblong panel, with between twenty and thirty of the most 
common species of moss arranged in horizontal stripes. In the 
spangles over the doorway are upwards of sixty species of moss 
and lichens, such as are too diminutive in growth to be incor- 
porated into the body of the work. The whole of the above 
have been collected in and about this neighbourhood. Over 
the seats and windows are three horizontal pieces on a level with 
the ceiling of the portico, with various devices. (fig. 93. c, D, and 
gE.) These pieces serve as a kind of plancier to the inner roof, 
which is acommon span, with a gable end over the entrance, on 
which is represented the elevation of the building. The opposite 


534 Moss House in the Flower-Garden 


Co WA Ms SI 2 2 


12 0 4 2 3 4 Sep. 


Cfo nen 1 1 1 (La 


Section of the moss house from front to back, showing the interior and exterior roofs. 


end is hipped in, and has the figure of the English crown. The 
whole of this design is executed in party-coloured moss. The 


9] 


Section of the moss 
house from right 
to left, showing 
the seats and the 
inner and the 
outer roof, with 
gutters, &c. 


Piz Nal 22 Oe ae 
ceiling of the span part of the roof is inlaid with light-coloured 
mosses in the form of diamonds. . 

All the styles, rails, and munni ns of the panels are formed 
with Cendmyce rangiferina (or reindeer lichen), which grows 
in great abundance on Bagshot Heath. The ridge of the outer 


at Bagshot Park. 535 


roof is about 4 ft. in length, with six hips and projecting eaves ; 
the plancier is of rough bark; and the fascia of pinaster cones, 
within which is a gutter to carry the water to the back part of 
the building. 

I have to remark, that, had the whole structure been one foot 
higher, it would have appeared to much greater advantage: the 
walls are barely 7 ft.. and they ought to have been nearly 8 ft. 
in height. 

fig. 94. is an elevation of the moss house, showing the 
situation of the window, the seats, the outer cornice of pine 
cones, floor of the portico, &c., mentioned above. 

fig. 89. shows the ground plan of the moss house and por- 
tico; aa are the seats. 

Fig. 90. is a section of the moss house from front to back, 
showing the interior and exterior roofs. 

Fig. 91. is a section of the moss house from right to left, 
showing the seats, and the inner and the outer roof, with gut- 
ters, &c. 

Fig. 92. is a sketch of one of the sides. In this figure, 
k shows the disposition of the rods before the moss is introduced 
between them; o 
is Cenomyce ran- 
giferina; p, H¥p- 
num Schréberz; 
g is Dicranum 
glaicum; r, Bry- 
um hérnum; s, 
Sphagnum acuti- 
folium, pink var.; 
t, S. obtusifolium; 
and uw, Bryum 
cuspidatum. 7 is 
the rustic skirt- 
ing above the 
seat ; m, the seat ; 
and 7, the rustic- 
work under the 
seat. 

Fig. 93. is a 
plan of the ceiling 
to the portico, 
and of the hori- 
zontal part of the 
ceiling of the in- 
terior. In this 
figure, c D and E 
are the horizontal panels in the ceiling of the interior, over the 


92 


£2 


tre i aan dtr i Jo ied LU SOR 


536 Moss House in the Flower-Garden 


seats. ‘The patterns in these panels are formed by round rods, 
as above described, between which are introduced the following 
kinds of moss: — a, Bryum hérnum; 6, Cenémyce rangiferina; 
c, Sphagnum acutifolium, pink var.; d, Sphagnum obtusifolium ; 
e, Dicranum glaticum ; f, Bryum cuspidatum ; ¢, Hypnum squar- 
rosum; /, Dicranum scoparium. ‘The same letters refer to the 
ceiling of the portico. 

The following is the method in which the work is performed. 
The first thing necessary, before commencing operations, is to 
have an even close-boarded surface to work upon; and upon 
this ground draw whatever figures, forms, or devices you intend 
to represent. The next thing is to get round rods, about half 
an inch or five eighths of an inch in diameter, nearly of equal 
size, and well seasoned. ‘These rods are to be nailed on agree- 
ably to the drawing, about an inch from centre to centre, this 


at Bagshot Park. 537 


: ot 
PRUE CAREGTRR 


—— <A 
DIF AO gv 
xh B SS 


DO We AES 
WN 


SSS 


ill j | m4 J 
We 


Tt 


being the average space, though it is necessary to regulate the 
distance, in some measure, according to the space allotted for 
each sort of moss. Each species should be collected separately, 
when perfectly dry. It must be adjusted by placing the top 
of each piece as evenly as possible, and cutting off a part of the 
root end, if it should be found too long. ‘Take a small quantity 
at a time, and ram it in between the rods with a blunt wedge- 
shaped piece of wood. ‘The round rods act as a dovetail; and, 
if the moss be properly rammed in, it cannot be pulled out 
again without tearing it to pieces. ‘The bottom part being com- 
pressed between the rods, the top expands, and so completely 
covers the rods that not a vestige of them is to be seen in the 
whole building. Its evenness of surface, closeness of texture, 
and variety of colour give moss thus arranged an appearance not 
unlike that of a Turkey carpet. The most common species of 
moss adapted for the purpose are, Cenomyce rangiferina, the 
pure white of which contrasts well with that of most of the other 
sorts; Dicranum glaticum, whitish green, and Bryum hérnum, 
yellowish green, these are two of the best, and quite distinct in 
colour; Sphagnum acutifolium, the pink variety, and S. ob- 
tusifolium, yellowish white, form a striking contrast with the 
greater part of the others; Bryum roseum, pink, B. cuspidatum, 
light green, Dicranum scoparium, deep green, H¥pnum Schré- 
berz, reddish, H. squarrosum, bright green, are all good; and 
HZ. loreum, bright green, Hi. triquetrum, yellow-green, H. 
(Léskea) dendroides, yellowish green, and some others, serve 
to make a variety. 
Bagshot Park Gardens, July 10. 1834. 


aug 


ig od Hy 


iii TMT TT OUT TOTO 


ESS SSG GN —e 


9 
9 
g 
9 
SP 
2 
f 
& 
y 
a 
F 
£ 

SP 
@ 


S'6'dinw @ Wyo io 


ENTTAUCUAIAATA AU 
ISS SSS 
6 


1, Slips. 2, Culinary departments. 3, Forcing department, with ranges of forcing-houses for 
adaptation, as may be required. 4, Frame ground. 5, For compost, mixing and turning 
dung, &c. 6, Water tanks. 7, Dwarf walls for training fruit trees, &c. 8, Ranges for 
framing, cucumber ridge, carrots and potatoes under heaps, forcing asparagus, &c. 9, Pine or 
melon pits. 10, Mushroom sheds, and for other purposes. 11, Open shed for compost, &c. 
12, Gardener’s house and yard. 13, Fruit and onion room, with seed-room over, and lodging- 
room for under-gardener. 


[In Mr. Rutger’s Design No. 3., p. 374., the row of standard trees on the inside wall border should 
be cancelled ; and in Design 4., p. 430., back-sheds should be shown to the pine stoves 6 and 7. These 
errors and omissions were not made by Mr. Rutger, but by our artists. ] 


Pruning of Forest Trees. 539 


Art. I. A Series of Designs for laying out Kitchen-Gardens. By 
Mr. T. Rutcer. Design 6., Containing Three Acres and a Haif 
within the Walls, and Two Acres and a Half in the Slips. 


THE accompanying plan (fig. 95.) includes, -with the forcing 
department, nearly three acres and a half, and the slips nearly 
two acres and a half more. ‘The principal entrance to the 
garden may be either from the south or from the east or west 
sides. The forcing-houses are left for arrangement, as they may 
be wanted; as are also the ranges for framing, &c. ‘The scale 
being smaller than those to the foregoing plans, the bordering 
for gooseberries and currants, or for espaliers, is omitted in 
the plan, but can be introduced in laying out the ground. 

Shortgrove, Essex, 1834. 


Art. IV. On Pruning Forest Trees; and on Planting and Managing 
Belts of Trees. By Mr. T. Rutcer. 


THERE is something peculiarly satisfactory and gratifying to 
the mind, when the opinions of men of acknowledged merit and 
experience coincide with our own; but, when instances of the 
reverse happen, we are led to enquire into the reasons, and are 
not always willing to bend, even to the truth. 

I must confess that I felt quite satisfied with what you have 
advanced in your Encyclopedia of Gardening, and with what has 
appeared in your Magazine, upon the subject of adjusting, in 
large transplanted trees, the proportion between the branches 
and the roots, and it was not until the other day, when I 
was turning over the volumes of your Magazine in search of 
the articles upon pruning, that Mr. Elles’s paper (VI. 545.) 
arrested my attention. His arguments go to deny the ne- 
cessity of adjusting the proportion of the branches to the 
roots, and your own observations at the close of that article 
countenance this opinion. Mr. Main, also, in his review of Sir 
H. Steuart’s Planter’s Guide (IV. 115.), strongly advocates the 
above principle; but it seems that Sir H. Steuart’s system is 
of such a conservative nature, both in the preparation and in 
the after-treatment of large transplanted trees, that it renders 
success certain; and, as such, it deserves admiration, and to be 
applied to its utmost extent. It is only against the indiscriminate 
application of the system that I stand opposed; and thus I am 
led to agree with what Mr. Main says, at p. 123. of the review, 
that, ‘* in cases where the roots are curtailed, and broken, our 
physiological tenets may be neutralised by the urgent calls of the 
mutilated plant, which may seem loudly to demand a provisional 


540 Pruning of Forest Trees, and 


equalisation of its conservative organs,” as cases may frequently 
occur, when time cannot be given for a preparation to be made 
upon the conservative system, so as completely to insure the 
end desired. If Mr. Elles intended to confine himself to trees 
prepared for transplanting by trenching round them the year 
before, and thereby provided with balls, I have no objection to 
what he has observed upon the subject; but, as there appears. 
nothing in the article to convey such a meaning, I would make 
the following observations. 

Above twenty years ago, I set about removing a purple-leafed 
beech, of about twenty years’ growth, to assist in embellishing a 
lawn. I was fortunate in raising it with a good ball of earth, 
and replanted it without divesting it of a single twig: the tree 
evidently received a check, but afterwards grew well, and is now 
in good health and vigorous. So far, then, I agree with Mr. 
Elles. About four years ago I attempted to remove another 
purple-leafed beech, of about the same age, but was less fortunate 
in raising it with a ball; nevertheless the roots were tolerably 
well preserved; I replanted this, also, without pruning, in an 
equally favourable situation, with all possible care, and watered 
it occasionally, as I thought necessary: but it died. Query, 
Had the branches of this tree been adjusted to the proportion 
of its roots, would it have survived? Again, some years ago, I 
removed some very large laurels, some of which had two or 
three large branches as thick as a man’s thigh, and were from 
14 ft. to 16 ft. high. These I pruned, or rather lopped, divest- 
ing them of full one half of their branches and foliage. In the 
first year I hardly knew whether some of them would grow or 
not; but in the following year they began to thrive, and they 
are now as luxuriant as possible. Query, Would these laurels 
have lived, if none of the branches had been taken away? At 
the same time I removed some large Portugal laurels and planted 
them without either lopping or pruning, but they lingered and 
died. Query, Would they have died, had the branches and 
foliage been adjusted in proportion to the roots? Farther, I 
have frequently observed, in the transplantation of large decidu- 
ous trees without pruning, that several of their branches have 
died, and in some instances I have found that the whole of the 
branches have died back to the trunk. Query, In either case, 
would this have happened, had an adjustment of the branches 
in proportion to the roots been effected? Finally, three years 
ago, I had occasion to remove two apple trees which I was 
anxious to preserve; and, accordingly, great care was taken in 
their removal: they were both planted without pruning, and 
both died. On the management of these trees, another query 
may be added to those above. 
~ Now, Sir, these are queries which I should like to see answered 


Planting and Managing of Belts. * B41 


before I entirely abandon your theory, as laid down in your 
Encyclopedia of Gardening, 5th edit., § 2132. I conceive that 
reasoning as physiologically as we may, upon not adjusting the 
proportion of the branches to that of the roots, will be of little 
use in transplanting large trees; in which operation, if a due 
preparation of them has not been made, a loss, perhaps, of one 
third or more of their roots and fibres may take place. I must 
confess I am loth to set analogy and physiology completely at 
loggerheads, as Mr. Elles seems to have done: I conceive that 
both ought to be regarded, and consulted, in most of the oper- 
ations in horticulture; and I think experience teaches us that 
sometimes the one, and sometimes the other, may be neutralised, 
and that they may at other times cooperate, and both prove 
useful in bringing about the end desired. 

The following passage in the new edition of the Encyclopedia of 
Gardening, § 569., appears to confirm my own experience on the 
subject. ‘The English garden of the new palace at Stuttgart was 
laid out, in 1809, from a design by the late king. It was planted 
with lime trees, from twenty to forty years old, from the avenues 
of Ludwigsberg and Solitude. All of these trees died in three 
years; their heads were not reduced, and their roots were not 
cut round and prepared a year or two before transplanting. The 
places of the dead trees have been since supplied by lime trees, 
with stems of four inches in diameter; horsechestnuts, eighteen 
inches in diameter ; poplars still larger; and platanus nine inches 
in diameter; all of which were planted with their branches 
severely cut in, and have succeeded perfectly.” [This was stated 
to us on the spot by M. Bosch, the present Director-General of 
Gardens in Wirtemberg.] 

But while upon this topic, I must observe, that the nature of 
soils has a great influence with respect to the success of every 
kind of vegetable product when transplanted, from the cabbage 
to the oak. Soils may be divided into two classes; viz., those 
which may be denominated dead and inert, and those which 
are quick and energetic. A fine, rich, deep, sandy loam, 
will work wonders in a garden; whereas, a poor, cold, hungry 
soil proves a constant source of disappointment and vexation to 
the gardener. I have seen cabbages planted in some gardens, 
where, at the end of four or five weeks, they have scarcely shown 
an indication of moving, while in other gardens I have witnessed 
them, in the same time, and at the same season of the year, 
nearly fit to cut. The analogy will hold good, I conceive, with 
regard to trees; and, in cases where large trees are removed 
from a soil congenial to their growth, to one that is the reverse, 
it is not to be wondered at if the transition proves fatal. 

There have been some excellent papers given in your Maga- 
zine upon the pruning of forest trees; among which, that of 

Vou. X.-— No 56. QQ 


542 Pruning of Forest Trees, and 


Mr. Main (VIII. 303.) stands preeminent; to which is appended 
a very proper eulogium by yourself. There are two principles 
in this subject, which I have laid down as resulting from experi- 
ence: first, that nothing is to be gained in bulk by pruning; 
secondly, that much is to be gained by early pruning, towards 
obtaining fine timber with straight boles. To these principles a 
third may be added, namely, that little or nothing is to be gained 
by pruning, to increase the picturesque effect of trées themselves. 
With regard to the first principle, it appears obvious, that what- 
ever wood a tree shall have made by the end of the season of 
growth, it will, by that period, have also made a sufficient number 
of roots or fibres to carry on by their extension, when the fol- 
lowing season of growth commences, vegetation in every part of 
the tree, so as to cause a greater or less degree of growth, ac- 
cording to the tree’s health, and the quality of the soil it in- 
habits. It is also reasonable to suppose that in proportion as 
the tree may be lopped or pruned, so will the action of the roots 
in rendering the necessary supplies be; unless it were pos- 
sible for the sap vessels to be so enlarged or multiplied at once, 
as readily to receive and conduct all that the roots are capable 
of obtaining, which cannot be, unless a sudden enlargement of 
the tree were to take place in all its parts, which is quite out of 
the question. 

Upwards of twenty-five years ago, I made several experiments 
in this way, particularly upon a beech and an evergreen oak. 
The beech stood in a group with others of more than twenty 
years’ growth, all of which were forked from the bottom, owing 
to the neglect of early pruning. I made choice of one, and 
took off ali its branches except the one which I considered the 
most promising, that is, the one most likely to make a fine tree. 
This tree is now standing, together with the forked ones, and 
the bole which was left is not in the least degree larger than the 
several branches on any of those that are forked. ‘The result 
has been exactly the same with the evergreen oak; others near 
it, of the same age, being as large as the one operated upon. I 
found also that by taking off large branches in order to make 
handsome boles, nothing was gained towards accelerating an 
increase in the size of the trees, as others that had been left 
untouched, had made a progress in bulk equal to, if not greater 
than, those that had been thus pruned. Thus far has my ex- 
perience gone upon the principle of pruning or lopping, to the 
end of obtaining bulk in timber. 

With regard to pruning for the purpose of making handsome 
boles and fine straight timber, that is quite another thing; but 
upon this subject I need not dwell, as it has been ably handled 
already by several of your correspondents, who, I believe, all 
agree as to the efficiency of pruning, when practised at an early 
age of the tree, towards producing this end: all I would say is, 


Planting and Managing of Belts. 543 


that the pruning can scarcely be performed at too early an age. 
It is not calculated to produce the picturesque, as nature will ‘do 
more in this, in ninety-and-nine cases out of a hundred, than 
man can do with either the knife, the saw, or the bill- hae 

The subject of thinning forests and plantations has also been 
ably descanted upon, and I have no doubt that all the commu- 
nications thereon have their merits according to local circum- 
stances, the objects of all being to obtain wood : and useful timber. 
Waving this subject, therefore, I beg to “draw the attention of 
your readers to that of the thinning of belts. Now, these are 
generally planted either for the sake of shelter or ornament ; 
the longer, therefore, they can be made to sustain their office, the 
better ; and to accomplish this, not only is a judicious thinning 
necessary, but a proper choice should also be made in planting 
such sorts of trees as are disposed to feather themselves down 
to the ground. ‘The great secret, in the planting of belts and 
the management of the trees afterwar ds, is to obtain and preserve 
a mass of foliage through the whole plantation. The idea of 
getting up a belt thickly ‘planted with fast-erowing trees, without 
ever thinning them, is preposterous. Ihave seen most deplorable 
instances of ‘this, even to the destruction of the whole; and at 
the present day, in some parts of the country, you can scarcely 
take a morning’s ride without witnessing and lamenting faults of 
this kind committed by either the planter or the proprietor. 
Belts being narrow, a good breastwork should always be pro- 
vided ; particularly on the sides upon which the winds are most 
injurious: when this is not done, and the trees are left to them- 
selves, their under branches will soon decay, and the winds, thus 
having full scope, will do serious injury. ‘The case is widely 
different with single trees which stand exposed, as they get 
inured to the vicissitudes of the weather; and, besides that, they 
have the advantage of a wider range for dies roots, without any 
competitors to dispute with them, which might draw more nutri- 
ment from the soil. Single trees, consequently, soon become 
more robust than trees in plantations, and are of greater stability. 
I think the fir tribe is too often, even almost exclusively, made use 
of in the planting of belts; in cases where these trees are left to 
themselves, their lower branches soon decay, and, in consequence, 
admit light to be seen through the interval thus occasioned. 
This should be always prevented, if possible ; ; and, to this end, 
the wider the belt is the better: narrow,stripes of a few yards 
in width effect but little, when compared to a belt of considerable 
breadth; and although the planting, &c., in respect to the 
former, may be attended with less expense, the result in a few 
years will be much less satisfactory in point both of beauty and 
utility. 

Shorigrove, Essex, 1834. 


cs) 


QQ 


544 Rot in Larch. 


Art. V. On the Rot in Larch ; with Information on the Dimensions 
of the Layers of Wood produced in the Annual Growth of the Larch 
Tree, in a Series of Years, in connection with a Statement of the 
Quantity of Rain which fell in each of those Years. By Mr. A. 
Gorrie, F.H.S. C.S. &c. 


AGREEABLY to your request, I send you the following remarks 
on the rot in larch: a subject which, I am glad to observe, 
begins to excite attention. 

My former note on this subject (VII. 374.), stating some rea- 
sons for the inference that, where the larch succeeds the Scotch 
pine (Pinus sylvéstris), ‘the rotting roots of Pinus sylvéstris 
form at least one powerful agent in promoting this disease,” has 
been noticed in a scientific communication, by a gentleman 
signing himself G. I. T., in the Quarterly Journal of Agricul- 
ture, vi. 552. very line in that excellent communication 
evinces an ardent desire in the author to discover the nature of 
the malady ; an ardour every arboriculturist must approve, and 
many, I trust, will be induced to imitate. As I have frequent 
opportunities of investigating the subject in different situations, 
I, for one, shall, from time to time, transmit to you such facts 
as may come under my observation connected with this capricious 
disease, in the hope that they may meet the eye, and engage the 
criticism, of G.I. 'T. and others of your intelligent readers. 

Although I cannot altogether agree with the theory advanced 
by your ingenious correspondent Mr. Munro (IX. 551.), and 
although I believe few can admire, or feel disposed to imitate, 
the flippant style in which he treats his practical brethren at 
p- 555., yet I feel thankful for his attempts to direct attention to 
an evil, the baneful effects of which it requires the union of 
practical men to counteract. In the remarks I have now to 
submit, I shall allude to such parts of his and of G. I. 'T.’s com- 
munication as the facts I may have to offer shall appear to con- 
firm or contradict. 

Having been lately engaged in cutting down several acres of 
larch (interspersed with other forest trees), of twenty-two and 
twenty-eight years’ standing, I have retained specimens of a 
few that appeared diseased, sections of which I shall endeavour 
to describe. No. 1. is a transverse cutting of a larch tree 
planted by me in the spring of 1811; the section is made at 
about 1 ft. from the ground, and measures 1 ft. in diameter. 
The soil is strong black loam, about 14 in. deep, on a bottom of 
rotten whinstone or greenstone. The annular growth of the first 
four years from planting was 11 decimal parts of an inch each ; 
in the year 1816, the annual layer of wood was increased to 26 
decimal parts of an inch; in 1817, a wet, cold, and late season, 
the annual deposit measured 3 decimal parts of an inch ; in 1818, 


Rot in Larch. 545 


it extended to 4 decimal parts of an inch. In 1819, during the 
vegetating season (that season commencing at the beginning of 
April, and terminating at the end of October), 16 in. of rain fell 
at this place. I mention this circumstance, because it is well 
known that a scanty or a liberal supply of moisture during the 
growing season is invariably followed, in healthy-growing larch 
trees, by a corresponding deposit in width. ‘This year, the 
annular layer of wood measured °5, or half an inch. ‘The ave- 
rage fall of rain, during the vegetating season in 1820, 1821, and 
1822, was 13 in. in each year; and the average annual deposit 
of wood for each of these years is °22 of an inch. In the year 
1823, the rain that fell in the summer months amounted to 
21in.; the temperature was low throughout this season, and the 
crops were unusually late in being secured. ‘The annular layer 
of wood in this year measures half an inch. In the years 1824 
and 1825, the rain for the same period measured 13 in. in each 
year ; and, in each of these years, the layer of wood measured 
3 decimal parts of an inch. In 1826, the quantity of rain in the 
summer months was, it will be easily remembered, unusually 
small; only 7 in. fell during the vegetating season, and about 
other 7in. in what are termed the dead months of the year. 
The annular layer of wood for this year only measures ‘2 of an 
inch. 

During the vegetating season of four following years, the fall 
of rain averaged 184 in. annually; and the annual deposits for 
each of these years averaged °37 of aninch. Hitherto all seems 
to have gone on well; and, up to 1830, the tree seems to have 
been in a healthy state: but, although the rains were moderate 
in 1831, 1832, and 1833, the annual deposit for each of these 
years measures only 14 decimal parts of an inch; giving reason 
to suppose that the tree had become infected with the disease in 
1830. ‘The rot appears to have commenced on the south and 
east sides of the tree, and to have spread irregularly in that 
direction between the annular layers of 1823 and 1832. I must 
here beg to call Mr. Munro’s attention to the facts, that the 
central layers are all sound up to 1823 ; and, as far as this spe- 
cimen is concerned, “ an extensive annual deposit of alburnum 
has” no “ hand in the matter (IX. 555.), and that the growth 
of the first ten years has” not “ given way.” I have been the 
more particular in my description of this tree, it being the only 
one in thirty, of the same age, in which the least symptom of 
disease has appeared. ‘The larch trees in this spot, now cut, 
stood from 20 ft. to 30 ft. apart, among oaks, with an under- 
growth of filberts; and, being in a conspicuous situation, I had 
encouraged most of the trees to assume a natural shape by per- 
mitting the lower branches to remain extended at full length 
down to the ground, The trees, in spring and summer, assumed 

a2Q3 


546 Rot in Larch. 


the appearance of so many pea-green cones, several of which still 
remain; and in none of those so clothed with side branches did 
the red wood appear to indicate a precocious maturity. I men- 
tion this, to direct attention to the state of the diseased tree, the 
section of which I have been describing. This tree had stood 
near a walk, and had had its branches pruned off up to the height 
of 8 ft. or 10 ft. 

In going over from three to four acres of larch trees, where 
the soil was a strong deep black loam approaching to clay 
(see the Quarterly Journal of Agriculture, vi. 550., where Mr. 
Knight’s opinion is quoted by G. I. T. as to argillaceous loam), 
mostly on a moderately retentive subsoil, the trees generally 
measured from 1 ft. to 15 in. in diameter, when cut near the 
ground. Here I found, in general, an approximation to early 
maturity: the red wood appearing in many of a dark colour, 
and extending to within 1 in. or 2 in. of the outside; apparently 
having nearly arrived at that period when, according to a quo- 
tation from Mr. Knight’s letter, in the communication alluded to 
by G.I. T., the heart wood not receiving new matter, it might 
be said ‘to live no longer,” yet it was such as is denominated 
sound by joiners. These trees were planted, I should have 
said, in 1805. In another two acres of larch trees, of the same 
age, which had grown in a strong black loam from 8 in. to 10 in. 
deep, but upon a dry and porous subsoil, and where the trees 
exhibited such strong symptoms of premature old age as to 
render their removal advisable, I found the red or heart wood 
generally extend to within five or six annular layers o? the 
bark; and, of sixty of these trees, I found three completely 
infected ; the section of one of which I shall describe, pre- 
mising that the other two specimens present almost similar 
phenomena. Here I have again to beg Mr. Munro’s attention 
to the facts, that, in each of the diseased specimens, the annu- 
lar layers are comparatively narrow; and, in each, the central 
layers for the first ten years are sound. G.I. T. will also please 
to observe, that, in this instance, ‘*a” very ‘dry soil” appears 
conducive to ‘* decay at the heart.” (Quart. Journ., vi. 551.) 
The trees were planted, as I have said before, in 1805; and the 
three annular layers of 1805, 1806, and 1807 amount in breadth 
to 4 decimal parts of an inch. ‘The deposit in 1808 measures 
"153 in 1809, ‘20; and, in the three following seasons, about 
-3 of an inch each year. For 1813, the annular deposit measures 
only °15 of an inch: this was a dry season. In 1814 and 1815, 
about ‘2 of an inch each season. Up to this period, all the 
central layers are sound; but the disease in an inveterate shape 
begins to encroach inwards from the four following annular 
layers, which are all around quite rotten. In 1820, the wood 
was of a diseased colour, but firm; in 1823, the annular layer, 


Diary of the Vine Culture at Oakhill. 547 


like all those in healthy larch trees of that year, was larger than 
the rest; from 1826, the annular layers became very narrow ; 
leading us to infer, that in that very dry season the disease 
had commenced. In examining the roots, I found several 
decayed into a soft spongy substance, within from 4 in. to 10 in. 
of the surface; the other roots were apparently healthy. The 
tap root (for each had a sort of descending root from below the 
centre) was sound; but, on cutting it across, the heart appeared 
of a livid unwholesome-looking red, indicating approaching 
decay. 

To direct public attention to this interesting subject, I propose 
sending the two specimens described, with appropriate remarks, 
to the agricultural museum of Messrs. Dickson and Turnbull, 
Perth, in the hope that others will contribute specimens of simi- 
lar trees, or rather of such parts of trees as may appear to them 
to be likely to lead to a knowledge of the disease. My next will 
contain my remarks on the larch succeeding the Scotch pine, 
as I expect to have an opportunity soon of giving plantations of 
that description, and others of the same age on similar soils, a 
liberal thinning. Where the larch has followed a crop of the 
Pinus sylvestris, I have but too much reason to fear I shall meet 
with many rotten at the heart, or “ pumped,” a term applied in 
this quarter for rotten or hollow hearted trees. I mention this 
as an answer to a query, in IX. 722., by the Rev. Mr. Bree. 
The proprietors of many larch plantations in this quarter begin 
to get experimentally acquainted with the term. 

Annat Gardens, Jan. 8. 1834. 


Art. VI. A Diary of the Course of Culture applied to the Grape 
Vines at Oakhill, East Barnet, in Herts. By A. Forsytu. 


SHouLp you consider the following diary of a course of cul- 
ture applied to the vine here worthy of a place in your Maga- 
zine, I should be gratified by the insertion of it. Our success 
makes us bold to say, that we hope it may introduce a better 
mode of culture of that much-esteemed fruit in the remote corners 
of the kingdom, where your Magazine has been the means of 
enlightening and instructing many an inexperienced gardener. 

The vinery is 34 ft. long, 16 ft. wide; with 2ft. of mason- 
work, and 2 ft. of upright glass in front; and the roof is at an 
inclination of 27°. The whole interior is heated by a surface of 
hot-water piping equal to 312 square feet. A tan pit, erected on 
piers of brickwork, occupies the centre floor of the house, except 
only a space of 3 ft. 4 in. all round, which is taken up by the 
pathway and hot-water apparatus. At the back wall of the 

e aq 4 


548 Diary of the Vine Culture 


house the soil is prepared to the depth of 6 ft.; and at the fur- 
ther extremity of the border (16 ft. wide) there are 33 ft. of soil, 
composed of equal parts of the following earths : — Turfy loam 
(the top spit of a very old undisturbed piece of pasture, occupied 
as a rick yard), two parts; rotten dung, one part; lime rubbish, 
one part; gritty mud (the same as road-drift), one part. ‘The 
vines are planted inside, there are twelve plants, and they are 
kept single-stemmed to the top of the house. When pruned, 
the spurs are cut back to one bud. The sorts cultivated are, 
Black Hamburgh and Dutch sweetwater. There is one vine 
of the Old St. Peter’s in the house, it having been planted as a 
stock to be worked on for some kind more esteemed. I should 
pointedly remark, that the management of the temperature, so 
as to preserve it at the states registered in the diary, is here 
deemed a condition essential to success in the culture. 

1833. | by day. |at might. 5 
Noy. 8.| = - |The vinery open. The wood ripe: not pruned. 
We have had two slight frosts. 
9.| 60 45 |The vines pruned. The vinery shut up. No ar- 
tificial heat applied. 
12. = = Vines pared; the loose and rough bark only taken 
off, 
16.| 60 45 | Tan pit filled with new tan (twelve loads). Soil, 

pathway, &c., kept wet. 


19. = = Vines washed with soap-suds by means of a painter’s 
sash-brush, the suds being in a tepid state. 
22.| 60 50 | Vines anointed with a mixture of soft soap and 


black and white sulphur dissolved in warm soap- 

suds; the mixture applied to the vines at about 

100° of heat. Vines laid down on the tan, and 

moistened with a fine syringe twice aday. The 

tan forked every other day. 

25. - a Forked the border about 3 in. deep; laid on turfy 

loam and old lime mortar, about 2 in. deep; then 

old hotbed dung, well rotted, 2 in.; the roots being 
near the surface, having been planted as shallow 
as possible. 

Walls whitewashed with lime and sulphur. 

217. = 2 Laid leaves on vine border, 1 ft. thick, and fresh hot 

dung, | ft.: protected the above from rains, &c., 

by reed covers used at other times for pine pits. 

30.) - = The floor dressed with a coat of road-drift, for the 

sake of sprinkling. 

Dec. 1.| 65 55 | Fire heat applied; and all the steam that can be 

raised produced. 

8.| 67 56 | Sprinkling of pipes and pathways performed at all 

times, for the sake of steam and moisture. The 

heat of dung on border, 70°. 

1d.) 69 57 | Weather favourable: the nights often 50° or 52°; 

seldom under 40°. We have had only four frosts ; 

the most intense as low as 26°. 

22.4) 70 58 | Buds perceived to be swelling. Heat of dung on 

border, 90°. 

29.) 72 59 | Ceased to syringe vines. The sprinkling of soil, 

pipes, and path continued. 


LS) 
= 
t 

F] 


1834. 
Jan. 5. 


20. 


22. 
March 8. 


10. 
12. 
14. 


29: 
April 12. 


18. 


22. 


Maxim. 
by day. 
74: 


76 


85 
85 


85 
83 


at Oakhill, East Barnet. 549 


Minim. 
at night. 
61 


63 
64 
65 
66 
67 
68 


69 


70 
71 


72 
13 
74: 
75 
76 


76 
7A 


73 
72 


72 


Buds breaking generally. Heat of dung on border, 
96° 


Weather wet and windy : nights, 45° to 50°. 
Shoots 2 in. long. 


Heat of dung on border, 65°. 


Largest spurs 1 ft. long: flower-buds as big as mus- 
tard seeds (white) : bunches, 1 in. 

Shoots topped at one joint above fruit. Ifa lateral 
is produced, it is topped beyond one leaf: if it 
break again, top it again beyond one leaf. 


In dull days, when the weather is cold, and there is 
not sunshine, give a little air, keeping the temper- 
ature at 74°. 

Dung on the border nearly cold. 

The flowers of one bunch (near the hot pipes) ex- 
panded: the first that have been. 


The vines in flower generally. 

Began to thin a bunch or two. 

Was thinning all day (at the top of the house). 

The berries of all set now: those of the Hamburgh 
as large as hazel nuts; those of the Old St. Pe- 
ter’s, the size of peas of the early frame kind. 
For the sake of the Dutch sweetwater, main- 
tained 76°, instead of 74°, the proper temperature 
for the Hamburgh. After shutting up at night, 
the tan pit is forked sometimes, and sprinkled 
every night. The pipes are sprinkled at least 
eight times in twenty-four hours. 

Begin to give air always when the temperature is 
4° above that of the night heat. 

Dung, leaves, &c., cleared off the border, to admit 
sun-heat, &c. : the border forked over. 

Finished shouldering the Hamburgh, and thinning 
the sweetwater and St. Peter’s (neither of the 
two latter wants shouldering much). All spurs 
tied to wires; laterals cut clean out; bunches 
supported. 

Sweetwaters discovered to be changing colour for 
ripening. 

First berry of the Hamburgh beginning to change 
colour. Moisture withdrawn; plenty of air ad- 
mitted; border watered with dung water (dry 
weather). 

About half of the berries of the Hamburgh red- 
dened; about one third of those of the sweet- 
water perfectly ripe; the berries generally, each 
31 in. round. 

All watering of the soil for the vine roots, and 
sprinkling of the house to prevent dust, &c., per- 
formed when plenty of air is given, that shanking 
(shriveling) may not be induced mm the berries. 
The border watered with dung water. Fruit 
swelling rapidly. 

Cut fruit of the sweetwater. 


550 Culture of Persian Melons. 


Maxim. | Minim. 
1834. by day. | at night. . 
Mayl.| - - Three days past have been cloudy and rainy. To 


colour the fruit of the Hamburgh, we keep firing 
to 77° by day (with front air, if rainy), and 72° 
by night; allowing ingress to a little air all night, 
the laps of glass being puttied. 


6.| = - | The fruit of the Hamburgh in high perfection; many 
of the berries each 33 in., and in some few 4 in. 
round. 

C1 nec - | The fruit of the St. Peter’s changing colour: a few 


berries in a bunch a little brown. 

10.| 81 70 | Grapes exhibited at the gardens of the London 
Horticultural Society, for which the large gold 
medal was awarded. 

A little air left all night, when thermometer stands 
above 50° out of doors; otherwise shut from ten 
till four. 

16.;_ - - The soil well watered, to prevent the leaves decay- 
ing, and consequently unnatural hardening of 
the wood, which ought to be ripened in a de- 
liberate manner, aided by the shade and surface 
of the leaves, according to the order of nature. 

The leaves are now of amazing size, green and vigor- 
ous, measuring, independently of the footstalk, 
18iin. by 15m.; and this not in a solitary in- 


stance. 
SOR = eel Soil inside the house, and border outside, watered. 
June 7.|  - - | Grapes again exhibited at the gardens of the Lon- 


don Horticultural Society, along with six pines. 
Both were accounted the best production ex- 
hibited, and prizes were awarded as such. 


9.| 80 - Ceased to make fires. With a supply of air left as 
above, the temperature stands usually above 65°. 
20.; = - | The fruit of the Hamburgh fine; that of the St. 


Peter’s ripe; the leaves still green and vigorous. 
All possible air admitted by day, when fine. Pro- 
tected from rain for the sake of the fruit only. 
Shut up close from dusk till dawn. 
July l.} - - | Fruit all cut. Left open with lights on. 
10.| - -| = | Lights off. 

The lights being off, no culture of any kind 1s given, 
except occasional waterings in very dry weather, 
to prevent a sudden and unnatural termination of 
the processes which actuate growth. 


Art. VII. On the Culture of Persian Melons. By A HERTFORD 
JOURNEYMAN GARDENER. 


I oBsERVE that several persons consider the culture of the 
Persian melon more difficult than that of the common musk 
or European melon. Now, as, according to my experience, 
both sorts can be grown in abundance in the same manner, it 
may not be amiss to give a short notice of the system on which 
I proceed. 


Culture of Persian Melons. 554 


Our pit was 9 ft. wide; its slope at an angle of 21°; with a 
pit at the back, for linings, if wanted. In the latter part cf 
October, we filled the pit with new tan, to the depth of 5 ft.; 
and with this we forced strawberries till toward the end of 
April, when we forked up the tan and trod it well, adding no 
new tan, nor using any lining. We then put in a ridge of soil 
along the middle of the pit. ‘The ridge was about 3 ft. wide at 
the base, and, when well trodden and beaten, about 1 ft. 3 in. 
deep in the centre. ‘The soil was composed of three parts of 
turfy loam, roughly chopped, and one of rotten dung. The 
plants having been prepared in the usual manner (one in a 
60-sized pot) were, after they had shown the rough leaf, topped 
and turned out into the ridge in one straight line along the 
centre, 1 ft. apart. For a few days we shaded the plants from 
the more powerful and scorching rays of the sun; and we 
covered the pit with double mats at night till the second week 
in June. As soon as the plants had reached their fourth joint, 
they were again topped; after which they threw out laterals, 
and showed fruit. As soon as the roots had penetrated through 
the surface of the ridge, we soiled the pit all over, in the same 
manner and to the same depth as we had made the ridge. 
When the fruits had become impregnated (part of them were 
impregnated by artificial means, for the sake of greater cer- 
tainty, and part by natural), and had begun to swell, each cf 
them was laid on a piece of glass, and the shoot stopped at one 
joint beyond the fruit: the eye, also, at the fruit-joint was taken 
out as soon as it had been protruded: and all other laterals, — 
and male blossoms, were pinched off as they appeared. In the 
evening of every warm day we sprinkled the pit, and also the 
plants, from the time at which the latter were planted out, until 
they had begun to show fruit. We took particular care not to 
wet the main stem of the plant, nor the soil immediately around 
it. We did not sprinkle at all while the fruits were being set, 
nor until they had been enlarged to the size of a goose’s egg. 
After this period we resumed the sprinkling, and continued it 
until the fruits had become nearly full swelled, when all moisture 
was finally withdrawn, save only that, after intense sunshine, 
when the leaves would appear enfeebled, we bestowed a little 
water at the extremities of their roots. We admitted air during 
the period of rearing the plants and that of the swelling of the 
fruits, at 75° of internal temperature, allowing the thermometer 
to rise gradually to 90°, and in the hottest sunshine to 95% 
While the plants were in bloom, we kept the pit rather hotter 
and closer than at other times. When the fruit had become 
well swelled, we admitted plenty of air, when the internal tem- 
perature was not under 80°. 

In 1833, I had the following sorts promiscuously mingling 


552 Protecting and Preserving of Fruit Trees. 


vines with one another, and producing fruit to the satisfaction 
and admiration of my employer and other competent judges ; 
viz., the Sweet Ispahan, Salonica, Cassabar, Scarlet rock, and 
Windsor prize. 


Art. VIII. On Protecting and Preserving Fruit Trees. By Mr. Jamas 

Eaton, Gardener to the Earl of Ilchester, at Melbury, Dorset- 
shire. 

In 1808, I finished making a new kitchen-garden, for the Earl 
of Ilchester, at Melbury. ‘The borders were all of fresh maiden 
loam, 3 ft. deep and 12 ft. wide, well drained and paved at the 
bottom, and in them I thought peaches and nectarines could not 
fail to do well; but, to my great disappointment, they did only 
middling for the first two or three years, then they became so 
cankered and naked at the bottom, that I was obliged to take 
them away. I planted most of the borders again with trees 
brought from different soils: these did no better; and in a few 
years I was obliged to plant all my borders again. I changed 
the soil, and tried every method I could think of, but with no 
better success. I thought, at last, that possibly it was the cold 
that checked the sap in the spring, and thus injured the trees ; and 
I had all my peach and nectarine trees, from the first year they 
were planted, covered every night, as soon as the buds began to 
open, till the middle or end of May, with a mat. I found this 
practice succeed perfectly, and when the trees got too big to be 
covered with a mat, I stuck small boughs of evergreens, such as 
Portugal laurel, &c., round their trunks; and let them remain 
till all danger from cold was over. When the trees became too 
large to be covered with either a mat or branches of evergreens, 
I sheltered the whole of the south walls, and part of the east 
wall, with curtains made of thin but strong canvass, called here 
Huiderlin canvass, which costs about 4d. per yard. ‘These cur- 
tains consist of four breadths of canvass sewed together, and they 
reach nearly from the coping to about 18 in. from the ground. 
I draw them sidewise, like bed curtains, which I consider much 
better than employing lines and pulleys. I have wire rings sewed 
on a piece of strong tape along the top, the bottom, and two 
places between the top and bottom of each curtain, to keep it 
from being too much strained by the wind. ‘These rings run on 
small iron rods like bed-curtain rods, fixed into studs made of 
deal or fir, about 25in. square, which are made movable, that 
they may not be obliged to remain. To effect this out of doors 
all winter, I have iron holdfasts driven into the wall near the top 
and the bottom, to fix the studs into; the top one stands 6 in. 
from the wall, and the bottom one nine. There are holes in 


Protecting and Preserving of Frut Trees. 553 


these irons for an iron pin with a head to go in and through the 
stud to keep it firm. ‘The curtain rods are made with a head 
at one end and a screw at the other; holes are made in the studs 
to slip the rods through them, and a nut is put on the screw, 
which keeps all tight. The curtains have a sheath or pocket at 
each side similar to the under valence of a bed, to admit a lath 
about 2 in. by three quarters of an inch. These serve to draw 
the curtains backwards and forwards. Loops of tape are sewed 
on at three or four places on both sides of each curtain, to slip 
over nails in the studs, to keep it from being blown by the wind. 
The laths are great strengtheners to the sides of the curtains in 
rough winds; and, till I used them, the curtains were often torn 
at theedges. I neither use line nor pulley, and the whole may 
be drawn or undrawn in fifteen minutes by one person. ‘The 
distance the studs are from the wall, admits the sun to shine on 
it when the curtains are undrawn; so that no part of the tree 
is shaded so long as to hurt it. At the top of the studs, just 
under the coping, I have a sort of weather-board, about 9 in. 
wide, tacked on to protect the trees from downright frosts. I 
keep the studs, rods, irons, and weather-boarding well painted ; 
and, when not in use, all the movable part of the apparatus is 
put away in a dry place; and all except the curtains will last 
nearly as long as the wall. I have a bit of lead with a number 
stamped on it, which is nailed to each stud, and a corresponding 
number is nailed to the wall, so that every stud is fixed in 
its own place without difficulty ; and the curtains are all made 
exactly of a size, so that they will fit any place. I have found 
the curtains of great use to draw over green gage and other 
plums just before they are getting ripe, in heavy rains, to prevent 
them from cracking. 

About the beginning of February I have every part of my 
peach and nectarine trees unnailed, and well washed with the 
following composition, applying it with a paint brush to every 
part aye Soot, quicklime, Scotch snuff, and sulphur vivum, one 
pound of each, put into a large water-pot full of soap suds and 
urine. Let the mixture stand two or three days after stirring it, 
and then it will be fit for use. I find this composition useful for 
preserving the trees, as well as killing the insects; it causes the 
trees to look as green the summer after it has been applied, as 
a coating of manure makes a pasture field look the summer 
after it has been dressed. I recommended it to a neighbouring 
gardener ; and, as he was using it, his employer advised him to 
58 cautious how he used it, alle he knew it better. He left off at 
once; and, during the summer after, any one could see, across 
the garden, how far the tree had been done ; for the part that was 
done looked of a dark green, and the Oiler a yellow colour. I 
have not at this time an unhealthy tree in the garden; and, 


554 ‘ Culture of the Mushroom 


though this last was a trying spring for fruit trees, I have had 
this season the finest and best crop of peaches and nectarines I 
ever had in my life. 

Melbury Gardens, Sept. 6. 1834. 


Ant. IX. On the Method of growing Mushrooms practised at Stoke 
Place, with a Plan of the Mushroom House there. By Mr. ANDREW 
PaTRICK. 


As you requested me to send you the plan of one of my mush- 
«oom houses, I, at the same time, have sent you an account of 
ty method of growing mushrooms. It may be new to some, 
though it is old to me, as it is a method which I have practised 
for many years; and, I am proud to say, I have never missed a 
crop. No sort of compost is necessary. 

I take a quantity of dung, fresh from the stables, and throw it 
together in a heap, until I think I have got a sufficient quantity for 
my purpose. ‘This, of course, will heat violently; and will fre- 
quently, when turned, appear quite white. Many gardeners will at 
once condemn this practice: however, experience has taught me 
{o approve it; and the whiter the dung is, the better I like it. 
Having procured a sufficient quantity for my purpose, I proceed 
to turn the heap; rejecting only the longest of the litter, and 
preserving all the droppings with the shorter litter. Having 
clone this, should any part of it be dry or white, I proceed to 
turn that over again; and, as I go on, I take a watering-pot and 
rose, and sprinkle it just sufficiently to make it ferment. When 
the whole is finished, I throw it up lightly into a conical heap, 
again to ferment. If the weather should prove very frosty or 
wet, some of the long litter that was shaken out at the first 
turning must be thrown all over the heap, to keep it dry until 
the heat arises ; which, according to the state of the dung, will 
be from four to seven days. ‘This second fermentation will be 
strong, but perfectly sweet, as all the rankness will be gone 
fom the dung in the first fermentation. It will now be in a fit 
state to put into the shelves or beds. If you can procure enough 
fresh dung at once for your purpose, it must be thrown together 
in a heap (as I before said), short and long together, and not be 
turned until it heats itself dry; then treat it as I have before 
explained. Having the dung thus prepared in a strong fer- 
mentation, and neither wet nor dry, proceed to put it into the 
shelves ; putting a layer of dung all over the bottom of the 
shelves, about 6 in. thick. Beat that down as tightly as you 
possibly can; and then put on another layer, and beat that as 
before; and so on, till your beds are 9 in. thick when finished. 
In the course of three or four days, the dung on the shelves will 


at Stoke Place. 555 


again heat quite strong: the beds must then immediately be 
bored. To accomplish this, you must be prepared with a sharp- 
pointed dibber, about 14in. in diameter, to mark out the holes, 
which ought to be 8 in. or 9 in. apart. This first dibber is only to 
make way for a second, which must be 3 in. in diameter. ‘The 
holes should be pierced with this at least 6 in. deep; and left 
open to carry off the steam, and bring the dung into a proper 
temperaiure to receive the spawn, which, in the winter season 
or spring, will generally happen in about a week after boring. 
In the winter season, I always spawn when the heat is a little 
lively; but, in the summer season, it is immaterial if the beds 
are nearly cold. Having the beds thus ready to receive the 
spawn, | break it into pieces about 14 in. or 2 in. square. If the 
spawn is good, that size will be quite sufficient; for it is my 
opinion that a bed may be overdone with spawn, as well as any 
other crop may be overdone with seeding. Wrap each piece of 
spawn in a little clean dry litter, such as was shaken out of the 
dung when first turned: this, in my opinion, is very essential in 
Insuring a productive crop; for, if the beds should be a little 
too warm or too wet, in either case it is the means of preserving 
the spawn. In this litter the spawn will quickly begin to work, 
as may be seen by pulling out one of the lumps a short time 
after having spawned it. One of these lumps is to be put into 
each hole; and, when the whole is completed, the beds are to 
be beaten down level with the back of a spade, the whole to be 
earthed and finished off as expeditiously as possible. 

It is customary with many gardeners to make, perhaps, one, 
two, or more beds in a house, in succession: but this is a plan 
I would by no means recommend; for, making new beds in the 
same house, when others are in full bearing, without due cau- 
tion, is very often prejudicial to the crop. Where a regular 
succession of mushrooms is ripened for a moderate or large 
family, two or more houses, the size of the plan I have given, 
would be necessary. I would recommend this size as nearly as 
possible, as I have often observed that mushrooms generally 
succeed in small houses better than in very large ones: and out 
of these same houses, when in full bearing, 1 have frequently 
gathered three bushels per week. But to return to the earthing 
of the beds. A proper quantity of strong loam, if it can be had, 
is to be preferred to any other mould: I generally take the loam 
of the second spit, to avoid wormcasts, which are very often hurt- 
ful to the beds. Break this well to pieces, and run it through 
a coarse sieve; cover the beds all over with it, and beat it down 
as firmly as possible; so as, when finished, the covering of loam 
may, on every part of the bed, be 2 in. thick. The quality of 
the mushroom very much depends upon the solidity of the 
earth; for, if that is not firm, they will often form themselves 


556 Culture of the Mushroom at Stoke Place, 


between the dung and the soil, and push up through it; and, 
when this happens, they will generally be thin and open.. But, 
if the earth is properly beaten down, the reverse will happen: 
they will form themselves in large clusters on the surface, no 
larger than pins’ heads, and will very quickly increase in size 
and solidity; and remain unopen, or buttons (as they are 

generally termed), till they attain a great size. If the mould is 
so dry that it cannot be beaten down firm enough (which will 
sometimes happen in making beds in the summer season), when 
the beds are earthed, they must be gently watered with a water- 
ing-pot and rose, and left a few hours to dry a little before they 
are beaten down: should the earth prove in any way adhesive 
to the spade, have a pail of water standing by to dip the spade 
in occasionally, to keep the back clean, so that the earth may 
be firm and smooth. Beds thus earthed will, when finished, 
have more the appearance of strong clay than loam; and one 
would suppose it almost impossible for any thing to grow upon 
them. However, from experience, I have learned that beds so 
prepared will not disappoint the most sanguine expectations. 
Some may think it is not necessary to make the beds so deep, 
and the covering of earth so thick; and some may think it a 
bad plan to earth the beds immediately after spawning: but, in 
my opinion, these three things are eminently useful; and, with- 
out them, a lasting and productive crop cannot be expected. 
Where beds are thinly and loosely earthed, they will sometimes 
bring mushrooms very quickly, especially when they have been 
spawned some time before earthing; but the crops will be both 
weakly and unproductive, and, instead of coming up in strong 
clusters, the mushrooms will be thinly studded over the bed. 
The reason of this, in my opinion, is, that, in such beds, there 
is not a sufficient body of dung and mould to nourish a crop of 
mushrooms for any length of time; and, when the beds are 
spawned a considerable time before earthing, the spawn has 
expended much of its strength among the dung. ‘The conse- 
quence of this is, that, when a quantity of cold wet soil is thrown 
on the beds when the spawn is in this working state, it chills 
and often destroys the crop; while, on the other hand, by earth- 
ing the beds as soon as they are spawned, the spawn can receive 
no check whatever from that process, and it begins directly to 
work. When the spawn spreads in the dung downwards, it 
immediately enters the earth upwards, and impregnates the 
whole mass. Mushroom beds, made after the manner I have 
recommended and described, will always be a fortnight or three 
weeks longer in coming into bearing than beds made in the 
common way; but, when they do come, they will amply repay 
the loss of time: they will generally continue in full bearing two 
or three months, and will produce a pretty good crop for five or 
six months. Mushroom beds ought to be kept very moderately 


with a Plan of the Mushroom House. 557 


moist; and, for this reason, I prefer close-bottomed shelves to 
open anes, as the beds will not be so soon dried, and will, there- 
fore, require less watering. Great caution ought to be used 
when preparing the dung for the beds, so as not to have it too 
moist ; and I have frequently seen beds made, without due regard 
to this, that have totally failed. In this case, the mushrooms 
appear quite thick all over the beds; but they quickly disappear 
again, without coming to maturity. The sole reason of this is, 
that the beds have been made of too wet dung; and, when this 
happens, the beds ought to be immediately destroyed, and fresh 
ones made: it will be folly to wait, thinking there will yet be a 
crop, as the mushrooms will never more make their appearance. 
The mushroom house ought to be kept about 60° of heat until 
the mushrooms appear; and then 55°, as nearly as possible. 
The same method of pre- 
paring the dung, spawning, and 
moulding, answers exceedingly 
well for ridge beds. I have 
nothing to say against the ridge 
system, only the beds are not 
so conveniently got at in bad 
weather. By opening these beds, 
when the frost is very severe, 
they often receive such a chill, 
that it is some time before they 
recover; and, except they are 
very well protected in wet wea- 
ther, that will likewise be inju- 
rious to them. But, in mush- 
room houses, you can get at the 
beds in any sort of weather, with- 
out any risk or trouble: the 
mushrooms are perfectly clean ; 
and the whole of the crop is at 
once exposed to view, as they 
will not require to be covered 
with anything. 
Ss The plan I have sent you 
I RESSSSS (fig. 96.) is of my winter house, 
FiLl 0 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9Ft, heated by 4-inchcast-iron pipes, 
fed from an adjacent boiler; 
which likewise heats a range of brick pits, 89 ft. long and 7 ft. 
wide. My summer house is exactly the same, only without 
the hot-water pipes. Both houses are ventilated by means of a 
slide in the door; and a wooden trunk up through the arch and 
roof, with a slide in the bottom part of the trunk. 
Stoke Place, Jan. 27. 1834. 
Vou. X.— No. 56. RR 


558 Arboretum Britannicum. 


“MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. I, ARBORETUM BRITANNICUM; 
OR, 


Portraits from Nature, to a Scale of a Quarier of an Inch to a 
Foot, of all the Trees and Shrubs which endure the Open Air in 
Britain, of the Size which they attain in Ten Years in the Neigh- 
bourhood of London; and Botanical Figures in Flower, and in Frutt 
or Seed, of most Species. The Letterpress will contain Scientific and 
Popular Descriptions of all the Species figured; Directions for 
their Propagation and Culture ; and Observations on their Uses 1 
the Arts, and more especially in Landscape-Gardening. 


By J. C. LOUDON, F.L.S. H.S. &c., Conductor of the 
Gardener’s Magazine, &c. 


To form Three Volumes 8vo, and to be published in Monthly 
Numbers, at 2s.6d. each. No. J. will appear on January 1. 1835. 


Tue above is the proposed title of a work on which we are 
now engaged ; and which, though it will form a treatise complete 
in itself, may be considered as the first Part of our Encyclopedia 
of Landscape-Gardening. The object of this work is, to spread 
a taste for foreign trees and shrubs, by showing their great 
number and variety, their individual beauties and characteristics, 
and the rapid growth of many species; but, among all our 
objects, that which is uppermost is, to show that there can be 
no landscape-gardening in the natural or irregular style, where 
only the indigenous trees of a country are employed. 

Hitherto it has been considered that the object of the land- 
scape-gardener, in laying out grounds in the modern or natural 
style, is to imitate nature, and to produce picturesque beauty. 
The principle of the imitation of nature has been carried so 
far, by some theorists, as to induce them to recommend the 
production of fac-similes of wild scenery; while others, who 
do not go quite so far, would yet employ only, or chiefly, the 
indigenous trees of the country in which the grounds to be laid 
out are situated, in order that the woody scenery so produced 
might be mistaken for such as is natural. There is not a single 
writer, as far as we are aware, from Shenstone to Knight, Price, 
and Gilpin, who does not adopt the imitation of nature as a prin- 
ciple; and who has not, at the same time, forgotten, or failed to 
see, that, in so far as landscape-gardening is to be considered 
one of the fine arts, the principle of the imitation of nature must 
be rendered subordinate to that of the Recognition of Art. If 
the imitation of nature were the sole principle of guidance, then 
the perfection of park scenery would be, that it should be so 


Arboretum Britannicum. 559 


like the scenery of a natural forest, as that it might be mistaken 
for it. Now, though such scenery round a castle might be very 
feudal and baronial-looking, and, perhaps, what many ‘would pre- 
fer, yet it would have no mieten ons whatever to be considered as 
a work of art. So far frem art being so concealed, in the pro- 
ductions of modern landscape-gardening, that it should be no- 
where discovered, a principle as old as Tasso (L’arte che tutte 
Ja, e nulla si scopra), the true, and, indeed, self-evident, prin- 
ciple is, that art should be discoverable everywhere in every 
work of art: in modern landscape-gardening, for example, in 
the smoothness of the turf, in the high keeping of the walks, 
and, above all, in the predominance a exotic trees, shrubs, and 
plants over indigenous ones. Even the turf should be composed 
of grasses different from those of the surrounding grass fields. 
In the ancient or geometrical style of landscape-gardening, art 
was everywhere avowed; and, therefore, so far, that style has 
greater claims to be called a fine art than the modern style, as 
the latter style is generally practised, or is recommended to be 
practised, by most authors who have written on the subject. The 
truth is, that the change from the old style to the new was so 
sudden and violent as to prevent the admirers of the latter style 
from examining it deliberately, and tracing it to first principles. 
But to enter into this subject properly would require more room 
than can be here afforded; and we, therefore, merely state, that 
the point on which all the authors who have hitherto written on 
landscape-gardening have been deficient is, the omission of the 
principle of the Recognition of Art. It does not follow, from 
this, that the writings FoF these authors are not good, so far as 
they go; because, in general, they have been guided by correct 
feeling: but, by stopping short of this principle, the claim of 
Jandscape-gardening to be considered a fine art has never yet 
been satisfactorily established, nor a sufficient reason shown why 
the use of foreign trees and shrubs is essential to the modern 
style. Henceforth it may be considered as an established prin- 
ciple, that there can be no landscape-gardening in the natural 
style, where only indigenous trees and shrubs are used. Where 
no foreign trees are ra be obtained, recourse must be had to 
the seometrical manner of disposing of the local ones. ‘Those 
who wish other authority than ours on this subject, we refer to 
the Essai sur Imitation, by M. Quatremére de Quincy; a work 
which a friend of ours is now translating for us, and which we 
intend to publish for the improvement of young gardeners and 
architects. 

The progress of taste, like the progress of everything else, 
is gradual; and, when it is considered that it is only of late 
years that we hawt had anything like satisfactory theories of 


taste in the fine arts generally, it is not to be wondered at that 
RR 2 


560 Arboretum Britannicum. 


we have not yet arrived at a comprehensive and satisfactory 
theory of landscape-gardening, which should at once trace the 
beauties of both the ancient and modern styles to the same 
fundamental principles. 
We have said above that the principal effects in modern 
-landscape-gardening, considered as a fine art, depend on the 
use of foreign trees and shrubs; and we shall now assign our 
reasons for being of this opinion. ‘These reasons we have hinted 
at in various papers, more particularly in reviewing Mr. Gilpin’s 
work (Gard. Mag., viii. 701.), and in our Notes on Bearwood 
(ix. 679.). They are grounded on the principle that all art, to 
be acknowledged as such, must be avowed. ‘This is the case in 
the fine arts: there is no attempt to conceal art in music, poetry, 
painting, or sculpture; none in architecture; and none in the 
geometrical style of landscape-gardening. Why should there 
be an attempt to conceal art in modern landscape-gardening ? 
Because, we shall be told, it is an art which imitates nature. 
But, does not landscape-painting also imitate nature; and yet, in 
it, the work produced is acknowledged to be one of art? Before 
this point is settled, it is necessary to recur to what is meant by 
the imitation of nature, and to reflect on the difference between 
repetition and imitation. In what are called the imitative arts, 
it will be found that the imitation is always made in such a man- 
ner as to be a totally distinct work from the thing imitated ; and 
never, on any account, so like as to be mistaken for it. In land- 
scape-painting, scenery is represented by colours on a flat sur- 
face; in sculpture, forms, which, in nature, are coloured, are 
represented in colourless stone. The intention of the artist, in 
both cases, is not to produce a copy which shall be mistaken for 
the original, but rather to show the original through the medium 
of a particular description of art, to reflect nature as in a glass. 
Now, to render landscape-gardening a fine art, some analogous 
process must be adopted by the landscape-gardener. In the 
geometrical style he has succeeded perfectly, by arranging 
ground and trees in artificial surfaces, forms, and lines, so differ- 
ent from nature as to be recognised at once as works of art. A 
residence, thus laid out, is clearly distinguished from the woody 
scenery of the surrounding country ; and is satisfactory, because 
it displays the working of the human mind, and confers distinc- 
tion on the owner as a man of wealth and taste. <A residence 
laid out in the modern style, with the surface of the ground dis- 
posed in imitation of the undulations of nature, and the trees 
scattered over it in groups and masses, neither in straight lines 
nor cut into artificial shapes, might be mistaken for nature, were 
not the trees planted chiefly of foreign kinds not to be met with 
in the natural or general scenery of the country. It is true that 
there are other circumstances belonging to a country residence 


Arboretum Britannicum. 561 


which might determine it to be a work of art, altogether inde- 
pendent of the trees; but these circumstances we at present 
leave entirely out of view, and speak of the ancient and modern 
styles of landscape-gardening, solely as both are influenced by 
the kinds of trees planted, and by the manner in which they are 
disposed. We conclude, then, that the geometric style of 
laying out grounds is entitled to be considered a fine art in con- 
sequence of the manner in which the trees are disposed ; and the 
modern style, in consequence of the numerous sorts of foreign 
trees employed. (See, on this subject, Art. I. in the Architec- 
tural Magazine, Nos. VI. and VIII.) 

Though a taste for trees has existed from the earliest ages, 
that taste, in this country at least, may still be considered in its 
infancy. It is remarkable that a taste for foreign trees was earlier 
introduced in France and Germany than in Britain; and that it 
is still more general and more intense among the men of wealth 
and taste in these countries than in England. When Messrs. 
Loddiges planted their arboretum, in 1816, it is generally under- 
stood that the more rare species were obtained from Germany. 
Perhaps the cause may be, that natural woods cover a larger 
proportion of the surface all over the Continent than they do in 
Britain ; because, abroad, in addition to their other uses, forests 
supply the place of our coalfields: and thus, though the sub- 
ject of forest culture is more interesting to the Continental than 
to the British proprietor, yet the former sets less value on a 
native tree, and is more eager to display such as are foreign to 
the soil. An English landowner is almost always a great re- 
specter of trees generally, but seldom knows anything of par- 
ticular sorts: he, therefore, cares very little for their particular 
beauties, and contents himself with being an indiscriminate 
admirer of them. Hence, the unwillingness of most persons to 
cut down trees, however improperly they may be placed ; or to 
thin out plantations, however much they may be crowded, and 

however great may be the injury which the finer foreign sorts are 
sustaining from the coarser-growing indigenous kinds. This 
indiscriminate regard for trees, and morbid feeling with reference 
to cutting them down when they are wrongly placed or too 
thick, are principally the results of ignorance of the kinds and 
relative beauty of the different species, and of want of taste in 
landscape-gardening. When we consider that it is not much 
above a century since American trees began to be introduced 
into this country, this is not to be wondered at; and, more espe- 
cially, when it is remembered that planters, generally speaking, 
have few opportunities of seeing specimens of these trees, so as 
to become acquainted with them, and thus to acquire a taste for 
this kind of beauty and pursuit. The botanic and horticultural 


gardens, now establishing throughout the country, will tend to 
RR 3 


562 Arboretum Britannicum. 


remedy this defect, by exhibiting living specimens; and our 
Arboretum Britannicum will, we trust, aid in attaining the same 
end, by exhibiting portraits, drawn from nature, of all the foreign 
as well as indigenous trees and shrubs which can endure the 
open air in Britain. The private arboretums established or 
establishing in so many country seats will also do much good 
in spreading the taste; and, when it is once properly under- 
stood that no residence in the modern style can have a claim to 
be considered as laid ont in good taste, in which almost all the 
trees and shrubs employed are not foreign ones, or improved 
varieties of indigenous ones, the grounds of every country seat, 
from the cottage to the mansion, will become an arboretum, dif- 
fering only in the number of species or duplicates. 

In proposing, in the Gard. Mag., to publish an Arboretum 
Britannicum, we invited all our friends and readers, in every part 
of the country, to assist us by giving us notices of fine specimens 
of exotic trees, or of newly introduced species or varieties, &c. 
We shall now show, in a more definite form, the kind of inform- 
ation which we should be glad to receive. As the work will 
appear in Numbers, we shall, three months before the publication 
of each, give a list of the kinds which are intended to be figured 
and treated of in that Number; and, respecting each of the 
exotic species contained in these lists, we should be glad to 
receive information with regard to the following particulars, 
besides any other which may occur to the reader : — 

The Height which an average specimen of any of the species 
or varieties in the list below may have attained, as a standard, in 
the open garden or plantation; and the length of time that it 
has been planted there. 

The Diameter of the Trunk, when a tree, taken at the height 
of 1 ft. from the surface on which it stands. 

The Diameter of the Space covered by the Branches, and the 
general shape of the tree; as whether round, oval, narrow, 
compact, loose, regular, or irregular. ; 

Notices of the Impressions made on the mind of the writer, by 
the properties or circumstances connected with each tree or 
shrub; such as its appearance during winter; the colour of its 
spray or young shoots, of its old shoots, and of its trunk; its 
kind of bark; its roots, whether racemose and few, or fibrous 
and numerous; its budding, leafing, foliage, flowering, fruiting 
or seeding ; its defoliation, with the colours which the leaves 
assume before dropping, &c. &c. What, in the above and 
other particulars, has interested the writer may, by com- 
munication, interest and benefit others. In the case of species 
which have thriven remarkably in any given situation, it will be 
proper to state as many as possible of the cireumstances connected 


Arboretum Britannicune. (563 


with such prosperity; such as the soil, degree of moisture, sub- 
soil or rock, exposure, climate, elevation, proximity to the sea, 
&c. &e. 

The same of an average specimen of such tender kinds as are 
planted against a wall. 

The most Northern Limit at which any of the species or varie- 
ties will grow as-standards. . . 

The most Northern Limit at which any of the species or varie-- - 
ties will grow against a wall. 

The Largest-sized Specimen, as a standard; with its dimen- 
sions, and the number of years it has been planted. 

The probable Height which the species would attain, as a 
standard, in ten years. 

The following genera are intended to be contained in the early 
Numbers: — Peeonia, Magnolia, Liriodéndron, Astmina, Xan- 
thorhiza, Bérberis, Mahonza, Vélla, Cistus, Hibiscus, Tilia, 
Stuartza, Malachodéndron, Gordonia, Thea, Caméllia, Hy- 
péricum, Acer, Negindo, H’sculus, Pavia, and Kolreutéria. 

In addition to the above particulars, we are anxious to re- 
ceive the History, Description, and Present State of all the 
Arboretums which have been commenced in Great Britain and 
Ireland ; not merely of regular systematic arboretums in private 
or public botanic gardens or nurseries, but of all collections, 
however small, of foreign trees and shrubs. In short, we are 
desirous of such information as will enable us to give a Chro- 
nological and Geographical History of foreign trees and shrubs 
in this country. ‘There are few old places which do not contain 
some fine specimens of one or two of these trees or shrubs; and 
what we want are, their measurement, and the year in which they 
were planted. 

The progress made by foreign trees or shrubs which have 
been planted ten years or upwards is, perhaps, still more 
interesting than the date of the introduction, and. the size, &c., 
of old specimens, because it shows the dimensions which such 
trees will attain in a short period; and, therefore, we trust that 
our practical readers will be liberal in their supply of inform- 
ation in this particular, for our first two Numbers, by measuring 
for us standard Magnolias, Liriodendrons, Asiminas, Berberises, 
Mahonias, and trees of the other genera mentioned above, which 
may have been planted within the last twenty years, in their part 
of the country. 

The portraits of all our trees and shrubs will be to one and 
the same scale, viz., a quarter of an inch to a foot; and the 
botanical specimens (of which we shall generally give two of 
each tree, one in flower, or as it appears in spring, if it does 

RR 4 


~» 


564 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


not flower after ten years’ growth in this country; and the other 
in fruit, or in seed, or as it appears in autumn, if it does not form 
fruit in this country at the same age, ) will be all to the scale of two 
inches toa foot. We shall give no drawings which have not been 
made from nature; and shall describe no species which we have 
not seen ourselves in the arboretum of the Horticultural Society 
or of Messrs. Loddiges, or in some nursery or garden within 
ten miles of London. By giving all the portraits, exhibiting 
entire trees or shrubs of the size which they attain in ten years, 
to the same scale (which, as far as we know, has never been 
done in a botanical work before), those who propose to plant 
will see at once what they have to expect in ten years; adding a 
little to the bulk of the tree for countries south of London, and 
deducting proportionately for those to the north. 

To the above particulars we would request the attention of 
the Curators of all Botanic Gardens: of all Nurserymen who 
keep specimen trees; of all the Proprietors of Arboretums, or 
the Gardeners who have charge of them; and of all Gardeners 
who have foreign hardy trees and shrubs, young or old, under 
their care. All information for No. I. should reach us as early 
as possible in November, as nothing can be used in the first 
Number which is not received in the course of that month. 
Letters, &c., in addition to our address at our publishers’, must 
have the words Arboretum Britannicum on the cover. All com- 
munications received will be duly acknowledged in the work. 


Art. I]. Floricultural and Botanical Notices of newly introduced 
Plants, and of Plants of Interest previously in our Gardens, supple- 
mentary to the latest Editions of the ‘* Encyclopedia of Plants,” 
and of the *“* Hortus Britannicus.” 


Curtis's Botanical Magazine; in monthly numbers, each containing 
eight Plates; 3s. 6d. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Hooker, 
King’s Professor of Botany in the University of Glasgow. 

Edwards's Botanical Register ; in monthly numbers, each containing 
eight plates; 4s. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Lindley, 
Professor of Botany in the London University. 

Sweet's British Flower-Garden ; in monthly numbers, each containing 
four plates; 3s. coloured, 2s. 3d. plain. Edited by David Don, 
Esq., Librarian to the Linnean Society. 


PotyretaLous DicotyLEDONOUS PLANTS. 


Ill. Ranunculdcee. 


1631. CLE’MATIS. 
montana Ham. mountain 8 or 20 my W Nepal 1831? LJ Sw. fl. gar. 2. s. 258 


A highly ornamental hardy species from Nepal, ‘ which 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 565 


seems to flourish as well in the climate of England as on its 
native mountains.” It is a large-habited branching species; and 
produces numerous white flowers, of about the size and form of 
those of Anemone sylvéstris. ‘The figure is derived from spe- 
cimens supplied, in May, 1834, “by Lady Sarah Amherst, 
from Montreal, Kent, the seat of her noble father.” (Zhe Brit. 
Flower-Garden, Sept.) 


1596. PHO‘NIA. {of Botany, Oct. 1834, 197. fig. 
Reeveszana Paxton Reeves’s ww] or 3?su Dp.C China ... € r.l1 Paxton’s Magazine 


The figure exhibits a most gorgeous flower, full of petals of 
the deepest crimson, and these symmetrically disposed : the flower 
orbicular in outline. The kind is set down as a variety of P. 
edulis ; but it is named a “tree paeony,” is stated to have “ many 
half-shrubby stems,” and to be eligible to be “ treated and pro- 
pagated like the other moutans.” In this case, we omit to guess 
which species it is a variety of: the figure, and Mr. Paxton, in 
his description, teach that it “ is certainly a very striking sort, 
and well worth cultivation.” We should say, most especially so. 
The figure had been derived from the nursery of Mr. Tate, 
Sloane Street ; “who has several other unique things from the 
same quarter of the world” (China). 

XV. Magnoliaceze. Magnolia odoratissima is figured in the 
Bot. Reg. for Oct., t. 1709. A flower of from 3 in. to 4 in. across 
is shown, and shown to consist of twelve petaloid teguments of 
a tawny colour. Stamens approximate, tawny. ‘The description 
is deferred until November. 

XLVI. Céectee. 

3359. ECHINOCA/€TUS. (Echinos, the sea urchin, kaktos, an allied plant ; the spine-bearing ridges 

of the stems resembling the spine-bearing ridges in the Zchini.) 
Hyriészz Otto Eyries’s % —] fra 1? var.seas. W.Y Mexico 1829? C sp Bot. reg. 1707 

A night-flowering species; with a flower which exhales a 
delicious odour, and is, in the length of the tube, and expansion 
of the border, not considerably less than that of the night-flower- 
ing cereus. The expanded border forms a vegetable star ; whose 
rays are of the softest white, while the disk is of a rich yellow, 
formed by the stigma and the clustering anthers. Sir J. Lubbock 
presented, some years ago, a living specimen of this species to 
the Horticultural Society. It flowers at various seasons, and 
now and then forms an offset. (Bot. Reg., Oct.) 

LVI. Myrtdeee. 

3363. JAMBO'SA. £1696. 3356 
vulgaris Dec. common @ ((] of 25 f.jl Y¥sh. orGsh.W. EE. Indies 1786. Cp. Bot. mag. 
Eugénia Jambos L. 

This, the rose apple, a native of the East Indies, is one of the 
commonest garden trees of Madeira ; but there is scarcely another 
that combines so eminently the beauties of flower, fruit, and 
foliage. The flowers are large, handsome, of a very pale yellowish 
or greenish white, have a slight fragrance of primroses or cowslips, 
and are produced in tassel-like bunches, which contrast with the 


7 


566 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


thick dark foliage, and enliven the trees from February to July 
or August, when the fruit is principally in season. ‘The fullest 
bloom is in March or April; and, just after this, the trees are 
beautifully enriched by the fine cinnamon-coloured or reddish 
young leaves or shoots. Nothing can exceed the loveliness and 
delicate appearance of the fruit; its rich clusters half-hidden by 
the dark thick tufts of foliage which clothe the outer branches. 
The fruit is a drupe-like berry, pear-shaped or subglobose, about 
lin. in diameter. Although one or two berries may be eaten 
with some relish, their overpowering perfume, and taste of rose- 
water, together with the want of juice, render the fruit generally 
unpalatable ; and it is entirely excluded from the table or des- 
sert, except to satisfy occasional curiosity. The fruit is produced 
in the greatest profusion ; but used for no other purpose than 
sometimes to feed the pigs, which eat it greedily. ‘The compre- 
hensive figure published exhibits various stages of the plant's 
flowering and fruiting. (Bot. Mag., Oct.) 
LXXVII. Leguminose. 


2837. ACA*CIA. 
24668a brévipes Cun. short-pediceled % | or6sp= Y N.S.W. 1810? C slp Bot. mag. 3358 


Appears closely allied to A. multinérvia Dec. It is figured 
from the Kew collection, in which it has been cultivated upwards 
of twenty years. It is there a shrub of rather robust growth, 
with upright branches. ‘The phyllodia (leaves) are from 4 in. to 
6 in. long, lanceolate-oblong, falcate. Heads of flowers pale yel- 
low; borne, upon a very short stalk, in the axils of the phyllodia 
(leaves). (Bot. Mag., Oct.) 

XCIII. Celastrinee. 

35. 9868. MAY'TENUS. 
253a chilénsis Dec. Chilian st __| or 8 my G.Y Chile 1829? C p.s.l_ Bot. reg. 1702 

Dr. Liridley suspects that this may be even the same as M. boaria Mol., No. 253. of Hort Brit. 

A handsome evergreen shrub; which has been growing, for 
some years, in the garden of the London Horticultural Society. 
It succeeds best trained to the front of a south wall; but it also 
survives the winter without even that slight protection. It is a 
branchy shrub, with twiggy branchlets. Leaves lanceolate, ser- 
rate. Flowers in axillary groups of about four each, not showy. 
Corolla of a yellow-green colour. (Got. Reg., figure in Sept. ; 
description in Oct.) 

CXLIV. Portulacee. 


3357. CALANDRINIZ. 
discolor Schyad. ? two-coloured-/fd. |_| or 12? jiau Bt.Ro Chile? 1854? Ss.J Bot. mag. 3357 


Stem half-shrubby. Leaves spathulate ; of a glaucous green 
on the surface, purplish red beneath. Flowers large, twice the 
size of those of C. grandiflora, produced from the tips of the 
branches: petals obeordate, of a bright rose colour. Figured 
from the Glasgow Botanic Garden, into which it had been ~ 
received from the botanic garden at Gottingen. (Bot. Mag., Oct.) 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 567 


MonoprtTaLous DICOTYLEDONOUS PLANTS. 
CLXX. Ervicee. 


1339, RHODODIYNDRON 11018 ferrugineum 
2 Album D. Don white-corollaed ‘ or 1 jn w Pyrenees ? 1830? Ls.p Sw.fi.gar.2.s.258 


This is the variety, mentioned in p. 345., seen. flowering in 
the garden of Mrs. Marryat, whence the figure published had 
been derived. Mr. D. Don has never remarked the variety in 
any other collection ; but has stated, that, according to Bauhin, 
the white-corollaed variety is frequent on the Pyrenees. (Zhe 
British Flower-Garden, Oct.) 

- CLXXXVI. Compésite. 
2440. SVLPHIUM. 
+22246 perfolittum Z.  perfoliate-lud. YY A or 7 jl.d Y N.Amer. 1766. Dco Bot. mag. 3354 
$22250 trifoliatum LZ. three-leaved Y A or6jld Y N.Amer. 1755. D co Bot. mag. 3355 

(Bot. Mag., Oct.) There are fourteen or fifteen species of 
Silphium, and every one of them worthy the best regard of the 
British gardener. In fine open autumns, free from severe frosts 
to a late period, the degree of ornament which they supply 
in the hardy flower-garden, in their numerous yellow flower- 
heads of considerable size, renders them of high value. ‘Their 
flowers are well nigh the latest ornaments that it may be rea- 
sonable to hope for “ ere winter shuts the scene.” 

CC. Polemonideee. 

498c LEPTOSI‘PHON Bentham. (Leptos, slender, siphon, tube; slenderness of the tube of the 
corolla.) 5.1. Sp.5.— [ Bot. reg. 1710 
androsaccus Benth. Androsace-like-inflor. © or Zau.0o P.B.W California 1833. Sp 

A bushy annual species, 8 in. to 10in. high, with the leaves 
much divided, into linear segments. ‘The flowers are disposed 
in terminal heads, surrounded at their base by a number of 
floral leaves. The long slender tube of the coroHa projects 
beyond these leaves; and bears at its tip five spreading oval 
divisions, varying from white to pale blue and pink. The mul- 
titude of the flowers gives the plant a very gay appearance. 
Although the species is perfectly hardy, yet it cannot bear our 
summer heats; and only flourishes in the spring, or more par- 
ticularly in the autumn, when the sun has lost its power, and the 
nights are cool with heavy dews. Sow in autumn for the flower- 
ing in spring; in June, for the flowering in September. Any 
kind of soil seems to suit it; but in that of a shaded America 
border may be best. (Bot. Reg., Oct.) 

CCXIII. Solanece. 


591 SOLA‘NUM. y 
4706a etuberdsum Lindi. tuberless 2 A or 2jl.o Dp.P Chile 1829? Dco' Bot. reg. 1712 


Very like to the potato plant; yet its larger and more com- 
pact clusters of flowers, and its habit of not producing tubers, 
render it a proper plant for the flower-garden. It bears its rich 
clusters of deep purple blossoms, with a golden-yellow centre in 
each, from July to October ; and is very easily multiplied by 
dividing its stout, rooting, underground stems. (Bot. Reg., Oct.) 


568 General Notices. 


. VRGIA. iat [C ps Sw. fl. gay. 2. s. 255 
a Baan Toba bristle-pointed-{fd. OO? w? 30 or } au W.P Banks of the Parana 1832. 


In habit it much resembles N. gracilis and N. filicatlis; but 
is essentially distinguished from these by its broad, orbicular, 
not compressed stigma. Corolla white, suffused with purple, 
with the mouth of a deeper colour. A native of sandy plains 
on the banks of the Parana; from seed whence, sent by Mr. 
Tweedie, the plant figured has been raised by Mr. Neill of 
Canonmills, near Edinburgh. The plant thrives in a mixture of 
peat and sand; and the branches, lying upon the soil, root freely 
at every joint. (Zhe British Flower-Garden, Sept.) 

CCXXVI. Hydrophililee. 


8. NEMO’PHILA. 
saute insignis Benth. showy © ~< or 13 au B California 1833. Sy.m Bot. reg. 1713 


A procumbent annual species, with blue corollas above an 
inch in diameter. It has larger flowers than N. phacelidides, its 
habit is less straggling than that of N. parviflora and N. pedun- 
cularis. N. insignis is stated to require a rich soil, not damp, 
and a situation fully exposed to the sun; and to be protected 
carefully from wet when forming its seeds, or they will not ripen. 
It is figured from the London Horticultural Society’s garden ; 
where “ it has produced its seeds very sparingly, with all the 

care that could be given to it.” (Bot. Reg., Oct.) 


MonocoTyLEDONoUS PLANTS. 
CCXL. Orchidee. 


2530. CATASESTUM. 
$22657 semiapértum Hook. half-open-flud. y (jor gnf G Brazil 1824 D p.m.s Bot. reg: 1708 


Its flowers are not so showy as those of C. tridentatum; but 
they are peculiarly fragrant, a quality of which all the other 
known species are destitute. When the plant is in rapid growth, 
it will thrive the better if its roots are actually allowed to im- 
merse themselves in water. (Bot. Reg., Oct.) 


Arv. Ilk. General Notices. 


THE extreme Fibrils of the Roots of Plants, it has been asserted by Duhamel 
and others, die annually in the winter season, and are renovated in the spring 
in the same manner as leaves. Mr. Knight admits the position to be true in 
regard to the fibrils of bulb roots, but denies it in regard to the fibrils of the 
roots of trees. To ascertain the point, the Rey. P. Keith took up portions 
of the roots of different plants, chiefly trees, at different seasons of the winter, 
and, as a result, he concludes that “ the root is never wholly denuded of its 
fibrils or spongioles, as the branches are denuded of their leaves. A partial 
decay, with a partial renovation, of these organs, seems to be occurring at all 
seasons; but a total denudation of the root occurs at no season. If, with 
Mr. Knight, we admit of a total denudation of bulbous roots, I think it wil 
not go beyond such as are taken up out of the soil for the winter; for, if the 
bulb is allowed to remain in the earth,. it is to be believed that new fibrils 


Foreign Notices : — America. 569 


will have begun to be protruded before the old ones have finally decayed.” 
(Phil. Mag., third series, v. 211.) Mr. Keith appears to have been the first 
to discover that vegetating roots do not receive their increments of length 
solely by the extreme points. Professor Lindley has since confirmed the ex- 
periments of Mr. Keith, which were made so long ago as 1819. (did. p. 208.) 


Art.IV. Foreign Notices. 


AMERICA. 


THE first Annual Hxhuabition of the Columbian Horticultural Society was held 
in the City Hall of Washington, on the 5th and 6th of June. A large and 
splendid collection of green-house plants, and a great variety of garden flowers, 
vegetables, and fruits, were brought from the different parts of the district to 
the hall of exhibition. The season having been very unfaveurable, it was ap- 
prehended that the exhibition would disappoint public expectation; but such 
were the zeal and enthusiasm of the horticulturists, florists, and others of the 
district, that it presented, even on the first day, a spectacle of beauty and 
splendour that surprised all who saw it, and that was said te be unsurpassed, 
in variety and profusion, by any thing of the kind ever before seen in this 
country. The committee, to whom its superintendence was assigned, displayed 
great taste in its arrangement by the admirable grouping and disposition of the 
plants, and, assisted by several ladies of the city and its vicinity, who kindly 
lent their aid on the occasion, succeeded in rendering it a scene of enchant- 
ment. The green-house plants and the numerous garden flowers were arranged 
on pyramids, in different parts of the spacious hall and along the walls of the 
apartment, leaving alleys, through which the visiter passed to gaze on the 
beauties and inhale the fragrance that breathed around him. Twosmall floral 
pyramids were constructed and arranged in the most tasteful manner, by several 
ladies of the district, consisting of at least four hundred varieties of the 
choicest and most beautiful garden flowers, chiefly from the parterres of Mrs. 
Bomford and Mr. J. Peirce, and supporting a magnificent silver vase crowned 
with flowers. Glass globes, surmounted with bouquets of roses, lilies, pinks, 
&c., and containing goldfish, were placed in different parts of the hall. At 
night the spectacle was, if possible, still more splendid and enchanting; as 
lights, interspersed among the shrubs, tropical fruit trees, and groups of flowers, 
gave additional brilliancy to the scene. During the exhibition, on both days, 
the hall was crowded by visiters, and all seemed delighted at the first effort of 
the Society, which so far surpassed their expectations, and gave so fair a pro- 
mise of future excellence and utility. The committee of arrangements are 
entitled to high praise for their assiduity, and for the taste and untiring zeal 
they displayed in making the exhibition so attractive and beautiful. The 
exhibition was closed on Friday evening, the 6th, by an address from George 
Watterston, Esq., Cor. Secretary. After recapitulating the heads of Mr. 
Watterston’s discourse, the names of the principal contributors are given, 
and afterwards lists of eleven persons who received premiums for flowers of 
from three to ten dollars each; of six persons who received premiums for 
fruits, viz., strawberries, gooseberries, cherries, almonds, limes, oranges, lemons, 
and citrons, from two to ten dollars each; and of twenty-two persons who 
received premiums for esculent vegetables of from three to five dollars each. 
Among the exhibitors only four gentlemen’s gardeners are mentioned. A 
number of ladies and some gentlemen exhibited flowers and fruits without 
any view to premiums. The committee regret that it is not in their power 
“ to name all who contributed their share to that splendid profusion of garden 
and green-house flowers in the bowls and vases, and on the pyramids, with 
_which the upper end of the hall of exhibition was so richly decorated ; they 

can only add, to the list of the names already given, those of Mrs. Seaton, 
Mrs. Col. Towson, Mrs. Dr. Gunnell, Mrs. A. Suter, Miss C. B. Smith, Miss 


570 Foreign Notices : — America. 


Watterston, Miss Wood, Miss Jones, and the Misses Barnard, among the 
ladies; and among the gentlemen, the Rev. Dr. Laurie, D. Munding, and espe- 
cially Mr, T. Bates, who sent a profusion of very fine moss roses, and Mr. 
Bastian of Baltimore, and Mr. Camp, who sent some fine flowers, and, for 
the purpose of ornament and variety, several globes of goldfish. The 
collection of lemon, orange, and other trees of the citrus family,’ the com- 
mittee state, “ was very large, and some of the specimens were very choice.” 
Some of these trees were remarkable for their extraordinary size, fine form, 
and abundance of fruit. “ The collection of geraniums was very extensive; 
it comprised nearly all the old and many ef the new varieties, and was re- 
markable for size of flower and brilliancy of colour.” Among the more rare 
exotics were fine and very large specimens of Strelitzia reginze, Cycas revoliita, 
Lairus Cémphora, Ficus elastica, Thea viridis, T. Bohéa, Nandina doméstica, 
A’loe arboréscens, A. lingua, A. saponaria, A. variegata, &c,, Epiphyllum Phyl- 
lanthus, E. specidsum, Céreus triangularis, C. multangularis, &c., Calceolaria 
salvizefolia ; numerous large specimens of Agave americana, of both varieties, 
and of Yacca gloriosa. There were also plants of the pme-apple and ani- 
seed, some very perfect specimens of the Monétropa uniflora, of fine double- 
flowering white anemones from the neighbouring woods, a musk plant in 
bloom, probably the first that ever flowered in the district, and “ from various 
private collections numerous splendid specimens of Epiphyllum specidsum, in 
full flower.’ The committee speak in high terms of praise of the floral spe- 
cimens, from the beautiful and extensive collections of Dr. M‘Williams; Dr. 
J. S. Gunnell, the Society’s botanical lecturer; William Rich, Esq.; Mr. J. 
Peirce; Mr. William Yates of Alexandria; Mr. A. Suter, and Mr. John 
Douglass. (Daily National Inteligencer, June 6. and 27. 1834.) We have 
great pleasure in recording an aceount of this first horticultural exhibition in 
the very heart of the North American Republic, and we hope there will be 
very speedily similar societies formed in the cities of the different States 
composing that immense Union. We would recommend the seedsmen in all 
the principal towns to attempt something in the way of a perpetual museum, 
such as that of Mr. Thorburn at New York ; or an occasional one to last 
during two or three months, like those of Edinburgh, Stirling, and Perth 
(p. 504.), noticed in this Magazine. 

New York, July 30. 1834.—I have just returned from a nme months’ tour 
through all our Southern States. I travelled in my own open carriage, and 
stopped whenever I found any thing interesting in the way of farming, gar- 
dening, or building. I am happy to say we are fast improving in our country 
dwellings, though { did not find your Encyclopedia of Cottage Architecture so 
well known as I hope it soon willbe. It is, however, in the book stores of 
all the principal towns, and therefore must soon find its way into the libraries 
of our principal people both in town and country. Colonel B. of Charles- 
town, who has a copy, told me that he thought it would do more good to 
America than all the other books you have written put together. Iam glad 
your Gardener’s Magazine now comes out monthly at a reduced price. Its 
circulation is sure to increase here, for Horticultural Societies are springing 
up everywhere. I am preparing an article for you on the Gama grass [?], 
and will send it along with some seeds as soonas they areripened. It is con- 
sidered here the best of all grasses for soilmg. Mr. Thorburn is returned in 
high spirits, and has retired from his store in the city, te a farm in the country. 
I suppose that, having already written his life, he is now preparing his tour in 
England. I have just seen a fine basket of camellias landed from Messrs. 
Chandler; and a large box of tree seeds shipped for Mr. Charlwood. — B. 

Philadelphia, April 19. 1834.— A Magazine of Gardening and Botany has 
recently appeared in Baltimore, and it is hoped will succeed, though there are 
scarcely any instances in this country of a periodical doing well for any leneth 
of tine. —J. M. 

Philadelphia, July 7.—[Our readers, if they will turn to vol. viii. p. 360., 
will find a letter from a journeyman gardener, a native of Ireland, who ence 


Domestic Notices : — England. 571 


worked for us at Bayswater; and who appeared delighted with America, and 
with the treatment which he received from his employer. His employer was. 
equally satisfied with him; and, as we had sent him out, we were highly gra- 
tified at the result. We heard nothing of him afterwards till we received the 
following letter from his employer which we publish without any names, as a 
caution to young gardeners.] Poor , whom you sent to me some three 
years since, in the course of the first year fell in with some old acquaintances. 
from Ireland, and became very intemperate. He finally lost all his money, in 
some drunken frolic, was arrested, and sent to the city watch-house from 
Saturday night until Monday morning, when he was discharged on paying a 
trifling fine for being drunk. Through shame and vexation, he enlisted in a 
company of our army, then on its march to our north-western frontiers, against 
hostile Indians. The troops were attacked with the cholera before they 
reached the Mississippi. Many died, and great part of the remainder dis- 
persed through the country. Some died miserably in the woods, and others 
were never heard of after. Ifear poor —— died; but I can ascertain that 
fact Cf known at our war-office), should he have relatives to enquire after 
him.— #. 

The Toronto Horticultural Society was established in Upper Canada on the 
Ist of May, 1834, and the regulations and by-laws are before us. The pre- 
sident of the Seciety is the Hon. George H. Markland; and the secretaries 
are Messrs. B. Turquand and Alexander Gordon, to whom persons in this 
country, desirous of promoting the interests of the Society, may address com- 
munications. Mr. Knight, Dr. Lindley, Dr. Hooker, ourselves, and others, 
are constituted foreign honorary members, and Mr. Charlwood, Messrs. Skir- 
ving of Liverpool, Mr. Austin of Glasgow, Mr. Saunders of Guernsey, Mr. 
Gorrie, and all the secretaries of all horticultural societies whatever, corre- 
spending members. Such a society is likely to do an immense deal of good 
in a comparatively new country, and we would recommend the secretaries to 
have their eye on the agricultural exhibitions of the British seedsmen, with 
a view of procaring from them seeds of improved varieties of grain and other 
cultivated plants. There remains more to be done in the way of introducing 
improved varieties of agricultural plants into general culture than most people 
are aware of. Implements and machinery may be copied from engravings in 
books, and modes of culture may be learned from the same source; but seeds 
and roots cannot be conveyed by pictures er descriptions from one country 
to another. 


Arr. V. Domestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


ARRIVAL, from Demerara, of the Botanical Collector, Mr. Thomas Colley. — 
I have no small satisfaction in announcing the safe arrival, from Demerara, 
of Mr. Thomas Colley, late foreman in the nursery of Mr. Fairbairn, at Ox- 
ford. Iengaged Mr. Colley, in December last, to go to Demerara for the 
purpose of collecting plants generally, but more particularly the different 
species of epiphytal Orchidez ; and he has now returned, with about sixty 
species (many of them new) of the latter, and several novelties in other fami- 
lies. In the course of his betanical travels, he explored large portions of the 
Essequibo, Massaroni, and Corgooni rivers; and the whole of the adjacent 
colony of Berbice. Although exposed to dangers and hardships of every 
description, for the space of four months, his health was never in the slightest 
degree affected: and, such is his enthusiasm, that, although so recently 
landed on his native soil, he is already prepared to leave it on another bota~ 
nical expedition. Should this, therefore, ever meet the eye of any person or 
society desirous of sending out a collector of plants, or of specimens in other 
branches of natural history, I should be most happy to recommend Mr. Colley 


572 Domestic Notices : — England. 


as in every respect admirably suited to the purpose. Through his exertions, 
and those of Mr. Henchman (who penetrated the interior of Guiana, beyond 
the rapids of the Essequibo), little, probably, remains to be obtained from 
that quarter of the world; but there are many other countries, at once rich, 
and as yet unwrought, respecting which, and the comparative advantages they 
offer to collectors, I am now preparing a paper ; which, should you deem the 
subject not unworthy of the pages of the Magazine, I shall have great plea- 
sure in sending you for insertion in it. — James Bateman. Knypersley Hall, 
near Congleton, Sept. 11. 1834. ; : 

Highclere. — We are much pleased, in this part of the country, by your 
description of Highclere (p.245.). You have only done the place justice. — 
Selim. July 25. 1834. i 

High Keeping. — You have convinced me that high-keeping is the chief 
beauty of small gardens; and, as it requires constant attention to keep up an 
appearance of neatness, I have this summer spent all my leisure hours in the 
garden, and have little or no leisure time for writing or drawing. When gar- 
dening ceases to be a pleasure, and the evenings lengthen, I hope to send you 
something for both the Gardener’s and Architectural Magazines. — Idem. 

Growing Plants in Moss.— Your correspondent Mr. Thomas Parkins 
(p. 369.) informs us that he uses moss as a draining for plants in pots, and 
appears to think the practice new. I beg leave to say that I used the same 
thing, for the same purpose, as long ago as the spring of 1824; and found it 
to answer, in every respect, better than the common way of draining pots. 
Since that time, I have struck pelargoniums in moss; and have grown them 
in it without any mould at all, and found the plants stronger and better than 
such as were grown in the regular compost for pelargoniums. As the moss 
decays at the bottoms of the pots, I press it down, and fill up the pots with 
fresh moss. It does not signify whether the moss be live or dry, as both will 
answer equally well.— John Stewart, Gardener to Alexander Baring, Esq. 
Addiscombe Place, Croydon, Surrey, Aug. 20. 1834. 

Planting without Nurses. — 1am much pleased with Mr. Munro’s interest- 
ing remarks on the subject of planting (p.405.). Pray let us have, without 
delay, his farther hints on the treatment of plants intended to be put out 
without nurses, &c.—W. T. Bree. Allesley Rectory, Aug. 7. 1834. 

Some remarkable Specimens of Oak-branches, covered with Acorns, have been 
sent us by Mr. Bree; who says: — The specimens now sent are not merely 
accidental ones: on the contrary, the whole tree is loaded, on every branch, 
in the same manner; and I have one specimen of a cluster (or, rather, a 
cluster of clusters) comprising thirteen acorns. This is the more remarkable, 
because the oak is not (as you will perceive) the commen species (Quércus 
Robur), but Q. sessiliflora ; which last is, generally speaking, a much shyer 
bearer than the Q. Robur. The present is certainly a very great acorn 
year; but whether the tree usually bears fruit in more than common abun- 
dance, I have not observed. The tree is now really an extraordinary sight : 
the acorns look like inverted bunches of grapes. — Idem. Sept. 4. 1834. 

A Specimen of an extraordinarily large Melon, grown in the open air, in the 
garden of Wm. Hobson, Esq., Markfield, Stamford Hill, has been sent us by 
his gardener, Mr. Strachan. It measured 2 ft. 2 in. in circumference ; and the 
flavour was excellent, the flesh thick, and the rid very thin. Mr. Strachan 
says: — “ In the year 183], I received the seeds of the above melon from 
Mr. Hobson; who, at the same time, read the account of it to me from the 
letter he had received with the seeds, from a gentleman who had been at the 
horticultural meeting at Manchester, in 1819. From this gentleman’s descrip- 
tion of the melon (which, he said, took the prize), it was of good flavour, and 
weighed 153 lbs. I sowed the seeds in 1831, and treated the young plants 
the same as my other melons; with this exception, that, instead of putting 
two plants under one light, I put one only. I planted them in good fresh stift 
loam. I cut three melons from one plant; one of which weighed 143 lbs., and 
the other two from 8 lbs. to 12 Ibs. each: all were of good flayour. This year, 


Retrospective Criticism. 573 


I sowed the seeds about the middle of March; and potted the plants singly, 
in sixty-pots, shifting them from one sized pot to another till the Ist of May ; 
when they were turned out in the open ground, on a south border, with a 
hand-light over them; and kept close till they began to grow, and nearly filled 
the light, when a little air was admitted to harden the plants. This was all 
the protection they received; and, about the month of June or July, the 
lights were removed entirely, and the plants were suffered to take their own 
course. The second week in August, I cut one fruit which weighed 163 lbs., 
and which was the only one that I suffered to remain on that plant. About 
ten or twelve days after, Icut from another plant three melons, weighing from 
10 lbs. to 12 Ibs. each; one of which I cut up in the presence of Mr. Blair 
and a few more of my neighbours, and which was well flavoured : in fact, it 
was much better than any of us expected. I have cut several since that time, 
which have not been quite so good; which I attribute to the cold frosty 
nights, and the lateness of the season. — James Strachan. Markfield, Stam- 
ford Hill, Sept. 27. 1834. 

Effects of the prolonged Summer — A second crop of whortleberries (Vac- 
cinium Myrtillus) has ripened at Edgworth Moor in Lancashire. Fine ripe 
figs were grown in the open air against a wallin Aberdeen. Pear trees, in the 
gardens of Sir T. G. Cullum at Hardwicke House, in Suffolk, have produced 
fruit on the young spring shoots of the present year, which flowered at Mi- 
chaelmas: the pears are of the Passe-Colmar and Marie Louise kinds. A 
fig tree on the same property has its second crop perfectly ripe. At Elms- 
well, in the same county, one tree, which has already produeed two crops of 
apples, is in bloom for the third. In York, white currants, fully ripe, were 
gathered in a garden opposite the Pavement; and at Scarborough Parade, 
large strawberries have fully ripened, notwithstanding the exposure of the 
situation to the sea breeze. The gardens and fields near Sheffield present all 
the appearance of spring ; flowers and plants having blown and borne fruit a 
second time. he Inverness woods have yet scarcely lost a leaf; and are only 
here and there beginning to assume their autumnal livery. A pear tree in a 
garden near Huddersfield, which had lost nearly all its leaves, has budded forth 
again in freshness and full blossom. At Coleridge, in Devonshire, the apple 
trees have ripe fruit and full flower blossoms at the same time. (Morn. Chron. 
Oct. 17. 1834.) |About London the weather was so fine during the last fort- 
night of September and the first fortnight of October, that the six and some- 
times eight artists whom we had employed, during the whole of that period, in 
the Horticultural Society’s garden, Messrs. Loddiges’ arboretum, and in 
various nurseries, making drawings of trees and shrubs for our Arboretum 
Britannicum, did not meet with a single day’s interruption till the 15th of 
October, when portraits of all the deciduous trees and shrubs. were completed. 
The evergreens will probably occupy them a month or two longer, as the 
weather can hardly be expected to continue such as to allow of drawing every 
day in the open air. 

Passiflora [? Cockburni],— Stem quadrangular ; leaves ovate, large, and bright 
green ; petioles with two glands, seldom four; stipules lanceolate, pointed, 
subserrate ; involucrum large, three-leaved, serrated; calyx lanceolate, slightly 
keeled and spined on the back. Colour of the flower: inside, dark maroon 
on the edges of the petals and calyx, shaded to light in the centre; outside, 
purple on the edges of the petals, shaded to very light in the centre; calyx 
green; rays with dark brown ribs gradually termimating with light lilac, and 
curling inwards. Seed from South America. Blossoms here, in a green-house, 
in September ; increased freely by cuttings. — James Cockburn. Guernsey, 
Oct. 2. 1834: 


Art. VI. Retrospective Criticism. 


Prizes for Specimens of Flower-Painting done by Ladies (p. 451.).— The 
Devon and Exeter Floricultural Society is reported to have introduced a very 


Vou, X.— No. 56. $8 


574 Retrospective Criticism. 


interesting subject for competition into the flower shows, “by offering a prize 
for the best specimen of flower-painting done by a lady.” Much interest has 
been excited here by a similar proceeding for some years past ; and it is to be 
hoped that these examples may stimulate other societies to offer similar 
rewards, thus encouraging the exercise of a talent highly useful and agreeable 
in itself, as well as pleasing and beneficial in the perpetuation of a knowledge 
of varieties and species of plants that otherwise might become, in their locality, 
extinct. — S. Saffron Walden, April 15. 1834. 

We wish we could see prizes offered to the young gardener for the best- 
drawn plans of parks and gardens, or sketches of trees, &c. — Cond. 

The Successors of the late Mr. Weare, Nurseryman, Coventry. — In p. 165., 
while recommending Kirke’s nursery, at Coventry, we have, among other 
things, stated that he had been “ very ill used by his late employers, Weare’s 
successors.” We stated this on the authority of a most respectable gentle- 
man, one of our correspondents, residing in the neighbourhood of Coventry; 
and not from any personal knowledge of these successors, of whose very names 
we were ignorant, till a letter from one of them was lately shown to us, stating 
that they had not used Mr. Kirke ill. According to that letter, they certainly 
have not done so; and we therefore insert this paragraph in order to express 
our regret that we should give publicity toe areport likely either to injure them, 
or to hurt their feelings. — Cond. ‘ 

Mr. Calvert’s Nursery at Rouen. (p. 428.)— Mr. Garvie was discharged 
from my establishment about six years ago, and he has never put his foot in my 
gardens since that period. The whole of his assertions are false. He says my 
nursery is all gone to wreck; an event that he had long expected. This 
might have been the case, if I had suffered it to be cultivated by the English 
gardeners that I have had over; for my establishment never suffered but when 
conducted by them. ‘The fact is, that my garden was never in better pros- 
perity than it is at present ; and that what Mr. Garvie calls a wreck was never 
so well in flower as at this moment. J have thought it prudent, in order to 
give his assertion a direct negative, to send you three newspapers and one 
review, all published, within the last month, at Rouen; and I hope you will, 
in justice to me, translate those parts that will prove that my gardens are not a 
wreck ; and that my family and self are respected by the press and inhabitants 
of Rouen. The date of the first of these newspapers is August 28. 1834, 
and it is called L’ cho de Rouen; the second is the Gazette de Normandie, 
and is dated September 8. 1834; the third is the Clochette, and is dated Sep- 
tember 21. 1834; and the review is called the Revue de Rouen, for this month. 
All of these I beg of you to keep, that the readers of your Magazine may at 
any time see them. I accompany these papers with four certificates from four 
of the workmen now in my employ, to contradict the assertion that my men 
were obliged to leave for the want of their wages being paid them. The first 
of these certificates is signed by Vincent, who states that he has been thirteen 
years in my service, and that William Garvie has never been in the garden 
since he left. The second is from Mallet, a workman who states that he 
has been nine years in my service, and that Garvie sent for him to a café near 
my establishment, and that he took a glass of eau de vie with him; but that 
he did not enter the garden. The third is from L’Enfant, a gardener, who 
has been six years in my service; and the fourth is from Hardy, who states 
that he has been three years in my service as a gardener. I have nine persons 
- daily occupied; not one of whom has been less than twelve months with me. 
So much for the assertion about the men not being paid, and that no one 
would stay with me. These certificates also contradict the assertion which 
says, “I was sorry to see such a fine nursery as this was,” &c., p.429. Now, 
the fact is, that Garvie has not seen my nursery for these six years: and I 
will give you another proof, if any more are wanted, by referring you to Mr. 
Salter of Shepherd’s Bush, who, when he saw Garvie’s statement, kindly 
offered to write a letter to you, which he has done, and begs of you to publish 
it. This letter contradicts in toto all Mr. Garvie’s tissue of falsehoods. The 
property I hold and occupy as a nursery was given by the government to the 


Retrospective Criticism. 575 


town of Rouen to create a garden of plants: but with the condition that the 
corporation should indemnify me. They have already paid me 27,000 francs 
on account ; the remainder to be paid upon my giving up possession. I can 
remain two years longer; but 1 may leave this year, if I arrange with the 
town. At all events I shall not leave Rouen. I am much flattered by the 
greater part of the members of the corporation wishing me still to remain at 
Trianon, and cultivate the gardens for the town. 

In my nursery, at this moment, there are from eight to ten thousand 
georginas, several thousand roses, from three to four thousand camellias, from 
two to three thousand pelargoniums, and several thousand plants in pots, and 
containing every thing new which I have been able to obtain. If this is to be 
considered as the wreck of a horticultural establishment, what would your 
correspondent consider enough to complete a nursery? Iam satisfied that I 
have too many plants; and I should be very happy to have less, as nothing 
would please me better than to find purchasers for them.—- W. C. Calvert. 
Trianon, Rouen, Sept. 27. 1834. 

Extract from Mr, Salter’s Letter. — In passing through Rouen, about three 
weeks since, I visited the garden of Mr. Calvert; and can take upon myself 
to state that what Mr. Garvie asserts respecting it is not the case; also that 
any person passing through Rouen may see at the Trianon, among other 
. plants, the finest collection of georginas in France.— John Salter. Shep- 
herd’s Bush, Sept. 24. 1834. 

The certificates referred to by Mr. Calvert are left with us, and also the 
newspapers and the review. All the latter praise the collection of georginas 
at the Trianon, but at such length that we cannot afford room for translations. 

The Advantage of “ Cutting off young Oaks close to the Ground two or more 
Years after they are planted,’ 1 am well acquainted with; though Mr. Law- 
rence doubts (p. 465.) whether Il adopt the plan. I love oaks dearly, young or 
old, thriving or m decay; and plant and encourage them more than most men 
in my sphere. — W. 7. Bree, in a letter dated Sept. 4. 1834, 

Tobacco in Ireland. (p. 503.) — In the quotation from Mr. Wilson’s article 
on tobacco, published in the Hort. Trans., the culture of tobacco in Ireland is 
spoken of as being still continued. This is not the case. The culture of 
tobacco in Ireland is now prohibited ; and the native stock was bought up by 
government, and burnt. — R. London, Oct. 1834. 

Smith’s Treatise on the Growth of the Cucumber, Mushroom, &c. (1X. 692.) 
— Having this season grown both cucumbers and mushrooms according to the 
directions laid down in that work, I deem it but justice to the author to 
state the result of my experience. Onthe Ist of February I built my succession 
bed for cucumbers, and on the 8th of that month ridged out my plants; and 
I must say, candidly speaking, never did I, through all my long experience, 
see plants grow with such facility. They have answered my most sanguine 
expectations ; the fruit, from the first to the present time, has been exceed- 
ingly fine. With the mushrooms I proceeded precisely in the manner pre- 
scribed by Mr. Smith; and the result was, that, as near as possible to the time 
he mentions, my first mushroom began to appear. The first time I cut, I ga- 
thered forty; the second time, twice that number; and the third time, nearly 
a bushel; the bed continuing to yield in the same proportion to the beginning 
of May last. Rhubarb, sea-kale, and asparagus, I have, myself, had no oppor- 
tunity of cultivating as directed; but I have lately seen it grown on the same 
principle, and feel confident that it is fully practicable. From the plain and 
simple rules laid down in Mr. Smith’s very useful work, I am fully persuaded 
that any person giving them proper attention will insure success. In justice to 
the author, I shall feel obliged by your giving this letter insertion.— IV. Redyer, 
Practical Gardener and Florist. Beccles, Suffolk, Aug. 21. 1834. 

The Curl in the Foliage of the Potato. (p. 433.) — At the time I was a boy, 
the plants of potatoes of the red-nosed kidney kind were, in this village, so 
much subject to the curl, for several years, that we (all the gardeners) were 
afraid that we should wholly lose the kind. We pursuantly got seed from 

ss 2 


576 Queries and Answers. 


healthy plants from Soham, a village some miles distant, and since that time 
I have seen but very little of the curl here. Changing the seed is the best 
remedy for the disease. My plants from the potatoes of the red-nosed kidney 
kind from Aberdeen (p. 437.), which you sent me, have been unhealthy with 
the curl, but I expect a healthy crop from them next year.— J. Denson, sen. 
Waterbeach, near Cambridge, Sept. 17. 1834. 


Art. VII. Queries and Answers. 


CEREUS speciosissimus. —I understand that this splendid plant ean be made 
to bloom twice a year; but not having heard how this is to be done, I should 
be greatly obliged if any of your readers would contribute the desired inform- 
ation through yeur pages. — A Subscriber. Doncaster, Aug. 4. 1834. 

A Double-Flowered Crocus: is such a Thing known? — In p, 213. mention is 
made of double crocuses: are there such things, or is it a mistake? I never 
before heard of double crocuses, and have often wondered, considering how 
much crocuses are cultivated, that mo such thing had been met with. They 
must be exceedingly beautiful: where are they to be had, if they really do 
exist ?— W. T. Bree, in a letter dated August 7. 1834, ™ 

The words “ hepaticas, single and double crocuses,” in p. 213., line 19. from 
the bottom, are, doubtless, erroneously put for “ hepaticas, single and double; 
crocuses.’’ I have never known of a double-flowered crocus, but once saw a 
crocus flower, if not two, in which there were six stamens, but they were not 
accompanied by more than the usual number (six) of segments of the perianth 
or corolla: the flower was, if I have rightly remembered, of the common 
species, Crocus luteus Lam. — J. D. 

The Shaddock and the Mango. (p. 466.) — It was only yesterday that I ob- 
served a question addressed to myself by Mr. Roberts of York, on a subject 
which appears to me no Jess marvellous than it very naturally does to him, 
and 1 lose no time in replying to it as faras 1 amable. Horticulture, in all 
the British settlements which [| visited, during a sojourn of many years in the 
West Indies, appeared to be at the lowest possible ebb; and a planter’s 
garden, like the sign-dauber’s black bear or golden lion, required a printed 
notice to warn you that it was not a wilderness, so little did it wear of the 
appearance of ayt, and so utterly guiltless was it of any thing approaching to 
science, or even neatness ; the plants being left to luxuriate in all the wanton- 
ness of nature; that is, if they escaped being overpowered by weeds of rank 
luxuriance during the rainy seasons. Hence you may readily suppose it never 
was my good fortune to witness any horticultural experiments beyond the 
quarterly pruning ef the grape vines which frequently shaded the trellis porch 
of some planter’s house, of more than an ordinary turn for experiment ; and 
by the judicious exercise of which he was enabled, as I have, I believe, ac- 
quainted you in former letters, to obtain four crops of grapes annually from 
one vine; and as I was not myself the possessor of so much as one inch 
of ground, either as proprietor or even tenant, I had no opportunity of 
trying any experiments. The shaddock has hitherto been regarded by botanists, 
and I should presume upon sufficient grounds, from the days of Linnzeus to 
the present, as a distinct species of Citrus (C. decumina), of which the for- 
bidden fruit, grape fruit, and several others, are supposed to be accidental va- 
rieties. Hence it need not be a matter of surprise that from the seeds of a 
shaddock we should have more or less of these varieties, as well as genuine 
shaddocks; and it is equally possible, although I cannot pretend to any ac- 
quaintance with the fact, that, by a kind of natural hybridisation, effected by 
insects, hybrid varieties of shaddock, more or less approaching to oranges or 
lemons, according to the nature of the male parent, may have sometimes 
arisen : but, never having heard of such an occurrence, which, if familiar to the 
planters, would not have been suppressed during any of the years, or in any 
of the islands, of my residence (and they were not a few), I should be much 


Queries and Answers. 577 


disposed to rank the tale among Lewis’s Tales of Wonder; and to class it 
with the fable of English apple seeds producing, when sown within the tropics, 
guava shrubs in place of apple trees; or the wonderful history of the vege- 
table fly given by Attwood in his History of Dominica, and gravely copied 
from that work by the credulous Edwards into his History of the British West 
Indies, which, for the amusement of your readers, I shall transcribe; as Att- 
wood’s work (a volume containing, notwithstanding his credulity in this 
respect, much correct and useful information) is little known. “ The 
vegetable fly is a remarkable insect. It is of the appearance and size of a 
small cockchafer, and buries itself in the ground, where it dies, and from its 
body springs up a small plant, which resembles a coffee tree plant, only its 
leaves are smaller. The plant which springs from this insect is often over- 
looked, from the supposition people have of its being no other than a coffee 
plant; but on examining it properly, the difference is easily distinguished, 
from the head, body, and feet of the insect appearing at the root as perfect 
as when alive.” (Attwood’s History of Dominica, p. 69. Lond. 1791.) Mis- 
trusting, however, my own recollections, impaired by an absence of nearly 
twenty years, I shall mention the subject in my next letter to Dr. Bancroft, 
and communicate his answer to you, for the information of your correspondent. 
As to the fact of.the vast varieties of mango to be found in the West Indies, 
T can speak with confidence, nor can it be a matter of any surprise to those 
acquainted with the rude state of horticulture, or rather of no horticulture, 
which prevails in all the English islands; and which extends, as far as my 
recollection goes, to the Danish and Haytian territories I visited. The French 
planters form in some degree an honourable exception to the general rule ; 
and their gardens exhibit something like traces of culture; but still no arti- 
ficial methods are adopted of improving the varieties of fruit, or perpetuating 
those improved varieties which Nature in her caprices constantly and sponta- 
neously offers for acceptance. Even the pine apple, the mammee apple, the 
sugar apple, and the custard apple, mu/tis cum alis, which might, no doubt, be 
much improved, grow wild and neglected; and the guava, alike delicious for 
its fruit and for its jelly, is planted, like our brambles, only by the roadsides 
and in the hedges. The cashew apple, which by a simple and easy process 
affords abundance of the most palatable and wholesome wine, is equally neg- 
lected; for hitherto rum and sugar, and sugar and rum, have absorbed every 
thought, and exclusively called forth every exertion. May we hope that the 
reformed system, which has at last happily commenced, will bring with it better 
things; awaken the planters, so long slumbering on the verge of ruin, to 
a sense of their true interests; and convert the West Indian Islands, from a 
fatal millstone about the neck of Great Britain, into what a bountiful Provi- 
dence designed they should be, a terrestrial paradise, and a source of benefit 
to the parent state. This is a consummation I have incessantly laboured to 
effect, by calling the attention of those most interested to the true capabilities 
of those mismanaged and comparatively unproductive regions; but acting at 
a distance, and by such agency only as chance throws in my way, it can hardly 
be a matter of surprise that my unaided labours have been in a great degree 
abortive. I have, however, the satisfaction to believe that the foundation 
stone of rational improvement has been laid; and that the completion of the 
superstructure, though perhaps tardy, will be certain. — W. Hamilton. 15. 
Oxford Place, Plymouth, Sept. 16. 1834. 

Loudon’s Seedling Grape.—In your account of what has been lately done 
in the Caledonian Horticultural Society’s garden at Edinburgh, there appears 
Mr. Barnet’s report of certain grapes which he has had under culture. Among 
others he mentions “ Loudon’s Seedling ;’’ of which it is stated that “it readily 
produces a second crop.” Pray be so good as ask our friend Barnet, from 
what part of the vine the second crop is produced.—J. M. 6. Union Row, 
Chelsea, Aug. 23. 1834. 

What is the best Method of preserving Celery through the Winter ?—I shall 
be greatly obliged by this information, that article being in daily demand in 
the family with whom I live. — A Subscriber. Doncaster, Aug. 4. 1831. 


578 


Covent Garden Market. 


Hop Poles and Copper Wires. — Will you or Mr. Murray have the goodness 
to inform me how that gentleman (VII. 332.) means the copper wires to be 
fixed to the hop poles? Does he mean along the top of the poles horizon- 
tally, and one turn round each pole to keep the wire in its place? Is wire 


one tenth of an inch in diameter thick enough ? 


Do you approve of three 


poles to each plant, instead of one, as giving more surface? What is the best 
time of gathering, and mode of drying; and what is the best publication on 
- the culture and management of the hop?—O. P.Q. Carlow, Aug. 2. 1834. 


Art. VIII. 


The Cabbage Tribe. 


Cabbage, per dozen: 
White - - = 
Red - - ° 
Plants or Coleworts - 

Broccoli, per bunch : 
hite O a a 
Purple = = = 
Cape - - 3 


Legumes. 


Kidneybeans, per half sieve 
Scarlet beans, per half sieve 


Tubers and Roots. 


per ton 
Potatoes - $ per cwt. 
per bushel 
Jerusalem Artichokes, per 
half sieve = oS 
Turnips, White, per bunch 
Carrots,per bunch - 
Red Beet, per dozen 
Parsneps, perbunch - 
Horseradish, per bunch 
Radishes : 
Red, per dozen hands 
to 30 each) S 
Turmip, per bunch = 


The Spinach Tribe. 
GQ per sieve - 
Spinach eee half sieve - 
Sorrel, per half sieve - - 


The Onion Tribe. 


Onions, old, per bushel - 
For pickling, per half sieve 
Green (Ciboules), per bunch 
Spanish, per dozen 6 

Leeks, per dozen bunches = 

Garlic, per pound 

Shallots, per pound 


Asparaginous Plants, 
Salads, &c. 


Lettuce, per score : 
Cos 5 = = 
Cabbage 5 S a 
Celery, per bundle (12 heads) 
Salads, per punnet - 3 


Pot and Sweet Herbs. 


Parsley, per half sieve S 
Tarragon, per dozen bunches 
Fennel, per dozen bunches 
Thyme, per dozen bunches 
Sage, per dozen bunches’ - 
Mint, per dozen bunches - 
Marjoram, per dozen bunches 
Savory, per dozen bunches - 
Basil, perdozen bunches - 


Rosemary, per dozen bunches 


From 


cos coo & 
ARS COM 


oo 
me 
oOo 


oocooooo coe 

BROrFOCCe FNS 

ARCOM WOO 
hs 


oo 
oo 
b= CO 
be 


oo 
oor 
woe 


oooceco 
ocooococorrf 
CONC PIONO 


oooo 
oocoor 
wwerbo 


oooococooo 
Bide ee toto Pe 
eooanconce 


Covent Garden Market. 


To 
d 


5 So th 
eee FEO &% 


ooo co 
Com ONC 


oo 
mito 
an 


ecooco oon 
Or Re OOr FWO 
SOAMIH OOo 


co 
om 
wo 


ooo 
oon 


cooocoo 
SDOUDUNWOAH 


—_ 


oooo 
oror 
WAOD 


ooocoecoecooo 
MO cor toroco cw qQe 
csowsooooon 


Tansy, per dozen bunches - 
Lavender, dry, per dozen bun. 
Peppermint, dry, per doz. bun, 


Stalks and Fruits for Tarts, 
Pickling, &c. 


Vegetable Marrow, per dozen 
Gourds, per dozen - = 
Tomatoes, per half sieye - 
Capsicums, per hundred : 
sreen - - 5 
Ripe - - 7 
Chilies - : 5 


Edible Fungi and Fuci. 
Mushrooms, per pottle 5 


Morels, per pound - - 

Truffles, per pound : 
English - : c 
Foreign, dry e 


Fruits. 


Apples, Dessert : 
Ribstons, per bushel - 
Downtons, per half sieve 
Fearn’s Pippin, p. 3 sieve 
Nonpareils, per bushel - 
Baking, per bushel - 
Pears, Dessert, per half sieve: 
Chaumontelles - = 
Swan’s Eges = 
Autumn Bergamot - 
Bullace, per sieve 5 . 
Blackberries, per half sieve 
Berberries, per half sieve - 
Elderberries, per bushel - 
Myatt’s Strawberries, p. pun. 
Keen’s Seedlings = - 
Raspberries = = S 
per bushel - 
Walnuts per hundred - 
Filberts, per \00lbs. - © = 
Cob nuts - = - 
Hazel nuts, per peck - 
Pine-apples, per pound - 
Grapes, per pound : 
Hot-house = 3 
From the wall 3 
Hamburgh Black - 
White 2 6 
For wine, per 112 Ibs.5 
Melons, each = = 
Cucumbers, § per hundred 
Pickling ? per brace 
per dozen 
per hundred 
per dozen - 
izemons per hundred 
Dates ° = 
Sweet Almonds - 
Brazil Nuts, per bushel 
Spanish Nuts, new, per peck 
Barcelona Nuts, per peck « 


Oranges 


ooo ooo 


oo FO 
_ 


coococerocoooocescosco coUuNMmMoococococecosoo ooecoe 


ooo 
or 
BO CO 2S 


CHF HoCO 


rE OS 


COSCDH OAR OSCHOWROHOS TP OSW ORM PDP PDO POST WOQNWDOPL 


COD OCORAD 


oo oo 


coon 


SOSOSOSCSCOCOCSOCSASCOSCHRIO CDODSDSCOARAGCSORSSSS coocoeo 


ooo ooo oooh 


oo oo 


_ 


occooocoorocoocoorocoosoo cOomMCcoCocococecos cooofm 


An ou Monto BRO 


— 


— i 
SRR OCHW CHMOWOHWNHAMHAWNWAONIS KPOWUn 


= 


et 


_ 
CrO1) THe he tO OOOH or 


WAS WAL} 


oo ov 


SSCOMRSSSCSOOSOARSSSOSMAAD Sococencoooscocecoo coscsoe 


Observations. — Throughout the preceding month the weather has been 
particularly favourable to the growth of vegetables, with which the market has 
been fully and steadily supplied. From the continued fineness of the season, 


London Horticultural Society and Garden. 579 


London has been in a measure deserted by all whose time or convenience 
would allow them to remain in the country, which at all times makes a differ- 
ence in the demands of the London markets. The price of almost every 
thing now supplied has been very moderate, but is improving steadily, though 
very slowly. The prevalent dry and hot weather for the last three or four 
weeks will cause a less abundant supply for the next three months than has 
been anticipated, from which a farther improvement in prices may be expected. 
Potatoes are in most abundant supply, and those of inferior quality very low 
in price, so as barely to pay freight and charges. The stock immediately about 
London is now nearly brought to market, but we are already well supplied 
from the more distant counties by water. Onions are in abundance, of good 
quality ; carrots very plentiful and good, now fit for storing; turnips good, and 
moderate in price; coleworts plentiful; savoys coming to market abundantly. 
Broccolies are not yet supplied freely, or of good quality; but the recent change 
in the temperature is favourable to their improvement. Late cauliflowers come 
to hand sparingly: the great heat of the summer has been unfavourable to 
them. The supply of apples is still very large, but great complaint is made 
that they have a tendency to decay, and cannot be preserved : this may account 
for the supply, but will cause them to be ultimately scarce. Our crop of pears 
has altogether failed: we have had a considerable supply from Jersey and 
Guernsey, which are excellent. The fruit from these islands is entered free 
of duty, consequently can be obtained at very little expense beyond the pur- 
chase there; but their fine fruits are so much in demand as to realise very 
extraordinary prices. Filberts are now nearly exhausted; the prices are 
double what they were. Chestnuts are very plentiful and excellent. During 
the present month, from the extreme openness and fineness of the season, 
we have had abundance of violets; also lavender in full bloom. The second 
crop of Myatt’s new pine-apple strawberry is very good, and considered equal 
in flavour to those in full and regular season. Keen’s seedling also very good ; 
with a small quantity of the old, or double-bearing, raspberry. — G. C. 
Oct. 21. 1834. 


Ant. IX. London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Aveust 19. 1834. — Presented. A copy of a work entitled, An Enquiry 
into the Fruitfulness and Barrenness of Plants and Trees, with Practical 
Instructions for the Management of Gardens and Farms, and a System of 
training Fruit Trees, &c.; founded upon Scientific Principles: arranged as 
a Dialogue, by the Author, Joseph Hayward, Esq. 

Read. A communication on the propagation of pinks without the aid of 
glass, by Mr. William Phelps. 

Exhibited. Royal muscadine, black Hamburgh, and flame-coloured Tokay 
grapes, from Mr. J. Duncan, gardener to William Whitbread, Esq. An in- 
strument for taking up strawberry runners, by Mr. Peter Orlando Hutchinson, 
of Watton, near Stone, Staffordshire. Two boxes of flowers of georginas, 
from W. Dennis and Co. Flowers of a collection of varieties of: georginas, 
from Messrs. Chandler. Royal George and téton de Venus peaches, and 
Black Prince grapes, from Mr. C. Spong. Wheatear carnations, and apples 
of the kinds, Carlisle codlin, Kentish codlin, Kerry pippin, Nonesuch, Haw- 
thornden, summer July flower, and one nameless kind, from Mr. J. Kirke. A 
collection of flowers of varieties of roses, and flowers of other plants, among 
which were an undescribed species of Dracocéphalum from Peru, Lopho- 
spérmum Rhodochiton in great beauty, Clethra arborea, &c., from Mrs. Marryat. 

From the Society’s Garden, flowering specimens of Quisqualis ‘indica, 
Lilium longiflorum, Magnolia grandiflora var., Zinnia élegans coccinea, China 
asters, roses, T'hryallis brachystachys, Chelone centranthifolia, Verbena yendsa, 
Siléne laciniata; Phl6x tardiflora, cordifolia, acuminata; Hibiscus syriacus, 
varieties of ; Delphinium cheilénthum flore pléno, and of other plants, Elruge 


580 London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


and violette hative nectarines ; grosse mignonne, noblesse, George the Fourth, 
Royal Charlotte, Royal George, and Bellegarde peaches. The peaches and 
nectarines are about three weeks earlier than usual. It appears that the 
George the Fourth peach is capable of being grown to a larger size than has 
hitherto been represented. Oslin, summer Thorle, Borovitsky, summer golden 
pippin, Tetofsky, and summer rose, apples. These are very good summer 
table apples. The Oslin and summer Thorle are Scotch apples. The Oslin 
was supposed to have been brought by the monks to the abbey of Arbroath : 
however this might be, it has not been found among any of the foreign col- 
lections in the garden. The Tetofsky has been received to the garden from 
M. Call of the Taurida Gardens. 

Sept. 16. 1834. — Exhibited. Flowers of twenty-eight varieties, and of 
_ four seedling varieties, of georginas, from Messrs. Chandler. 

From the Societys Garden. Flowers: Gesneéria pendulina; Amar fllis 
Belladénna, and light-coloured-perianthed variety; Hunnemannia fumarie- 
folia; Salvia angustifolia, pseudo-coccinea, and chameedryoides; Calceolaria 
viscosissima, Aristolochia chiloénsis, Desmodium nutans, Psoralea sp. (Dou- 
glas), Seedling fuchsias, China roses, China asters, Georginas. Fruit. Apples : 
Autumn pearmain, Cambusnethan pippin, Hawthornden, Wormsley pippin, 
Kentish fillbasket, Ribston pippin, Foxley, De Lande, yellow Ingestrie, 
Strode House pippin, Longville’s kernel, scarlet queening, scarlet pearmain, 
Waltham Abbey seedling, Nelson. Pear: reine des poires. 

Oct. 7. —Books presented. From the list, we quote these : — Sixiéme No- 
tice sur les Plantes rares cultivées dans le Jardin de Genéve, et une Notice 
sur quelques espéces des Cactées ; presented by the author, M. A. Decandolle. 
The Botany of the County of Sussex ; presented by the author, T. H. Cooper, 
Esq. 

Eahibited, Plums: Ickworth Impératrice, and Dunmore, from T. A. 
Knight, Esg. Apples, from E. Barnard, Esq., of the following kinds : — 
Alexander, weight 17 0z.; Shepherd’s fame, 12 0z.; Hollandbury, 14 0z.; 
King of the pippins, 100z.; Coster, 17 0z.; Seek no further, 185 0z. Beurré 
Diel pears, from Lord Farnborough, 20 0z. Double-bearing raspberries, from 
Mr. J. Kirke. Zithospérmum angustifolium, and Tacsonia pinnatistipula, 
from Mrs. Marryat. Flowers of georginas, from Messrs. Chandler, Vauxhall; 
and flowers of twenty-four varieties, from Mr. Hogg, Paddington. 

_ From the Society's Garden. Flowers: Escallénia montevidénsis; Cal- 
ceolaria Herbertidna, angustifolia, angustiflora, and viscosissima ; Gilia tricolor, 
Stenactis speciosa, Collinsia bicolor; Salvia angustifdlia, spléndens, Graham, 
and chameedrydides ; Diplopappus incanus, Desmodium nutans, Zinnia élegans 
coccinea, French marigold, China roses, georginas, seedling georginas, and 
anemone-flowered georginas. Fruit. Kitchen apples: Waltham Abbey seed- 
ling, drap d’or, Burns’s seedling (a very handsome kitchen apple; and, in 
spring,* may also be used as a table apple), beauty of Kent, De Lande, 
Wormsley pippin, Silverling (a large Dutch apple), mére de ménage, Bedford- 
shire foundling, Rambour. Table apples: Old pomme roy (perhaps, more 
properly, a kitchen apple; but some esteem it as a table one: trees bear 
abundantly), king of the pippins, Broughton, pomme de neige, Famagusta, 
Downton, white paradise. Pears: Duchesse d’Angouléme (from a wall. 
The Duchesse d’ Angouléme has, this year, borne good crops in the neighbour- 
hood of London, when most other kinds have greatly failed; although, in 
some better pear seasons, this sort blossoms abundantly, but often fails in set- 
ting: a fault which may, however, diminish as the trees get older, and have, 
consequently, a steadier flow of sap), white doyenné (from a wall), beurré 
de Capiaumont, moorfowl egg, verti longue panachée. Grapes from the 
open air: esperione, royal muscadine, Cambridge botanic garden, Miller’s 
Burgundy, Pitmaston white cluster. Winter Colman apple, from Mr. G. 
Lindley, C.M.H.S. 


Soon. 


sobs 


Liriodéndron Tulipitere . 


Pree dirneom Zine byDay- &Haghe : 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
DECEMBER, 1834. 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art.I. Arboretum Britannicum; or, Portraits, to a Scale of a 
Quarter of an Inch to a Foot, of all the Trees which endure the 
Open Air in Britain, of Ten Years’ Growth, drawn from existing 
Trees within Ten Miles of London; with Botanical Specimens of 
the Flowers and Fruit, or Seeds, of each Tree, to a Scale of Two 
Inches to a Foot, &c. &c. 


Wirn the present Number we give a specimen plate of this 
work; and in the margin of p. 582. we give a form as the model 
of a return paper, which any gardener may transfer to a sheet 
of letter-paper, and, by measuring the trees under his care, fill 
up, and send us. We have sent papers of this kind, in French, 
German, and Italian, to all the botanic gardens of Europe; and, 
in English, to North America, and to upwards of a thousand 
country seats in Great Britain and Ireland: but still there must 
be some hundreds of English gardeners who have trees worthy 
of notice under their care; and the object of this article is to 
attract their attention, and put them on an easy mode of supply- 
ing us with the information we want. We are particularly 
desirous that they should bear in mind, that we are much less 
anxious to ascertain the dimensions, &c., of old trees (though 
these we wish also), than of young trees, and especially of foreign 
cnes, which have been from eight to ten years planted. One 
great object which we have in view is, to prove, by facts from 
every part of the country, the extraordinary growth that may be 
made by trees during the first ten years after planting, when the 
soil has been properly prepared, and proper room allowed to 
them ; and, consequently, what every planter who expects to 
live ten years may have just expectations of seeing as the re- 
sult of his labours. ‘The particulars for the following list of 
trees, intended to be contained in our first three Numbers, or 
for such of them as may have come under the notice of those. 
who send, should be received by us in the course of the month 
of December : — 
Vou. X.— No, 57. Ter 


582 


© OAD Ou oS bo 


ae 
= © 
58 


27. 
28. 


31. 
Boe 


35s 
36. 
Bi 
38. 
39. 
4.0. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 


Arboretum Britannicun. 


Magnolia g grandiflora. 

Magnolia gr andiflor a Serrugined. 
Magnolia grandiflora exoniénsis. 
Magnolia pated, 

Magnolia glatica Thompsoniana. 
Magnolia tripétala. 

Magnolia macrophylla. 
Magnolia auriculata. 

Magnolia pyramidata. 

Magnolia acuminata. 

Magnilia cordata. 

Magnolia conspicua. 
Liriodéndron Tuliptfera. 
Liriodéndron Tulipifera obtusiloba. 
Tilia europa a. 


‘Tilia europa a glatica. 


Tilia rubra. 

Tilia argéntea. 

Tilia plat fyphylla. 
Tika platyphilla minor. 
Tilia platyphilla laciniata. 
Tilia pubéscens. 

Tilia laxiflora. 

Tilia alba. 

Tilia parvifolia aurea. 
A‘cer tatdricum. 
A‘cer monspessulanum. 
Avcer striatum. 

Acer barbatum. 

A‘cer spicatum. 


Acer opulifolium. 


Acer campéstre. 
A‘cer Pseudo-Platanus. 
A’cer macrophylium. 
Avcer platandides. 
A‘cer platandides laciniatum. 
Acer saccharinum. 
A’cer hybridum. 
Avcer rubrum. 
ANY 5 EY AVI ER. 
cer eriocdrpum. 
Negiindo fraxinifolium. 
Negindo fraxinifolium crispum. 
ZE/sculus Aippocastanum. 
ZK sculus glabra. 
AE’ sculus ohiénsis. 
FE’ sculus carnea. 
FR sculus pallida. 
ZK’ sculus macrocdrpa. 


*SOULe NT 
aytoadg pu al1auey) 


Reputed Age, or 
Number of “Years 
planted. 


Height asa Stand- 
ands 


Wall. 


Diameter of the 
Trunk, at 1 ft. 
from the Ground. 


Diameter of the 
Space covered by 
the Branches. 


Jay} 


*IV[NBILIL IO 


ee aes “as00] 
~ol[M SB | pvafy 
yy jo oedeyg 


‘s9edu10d “[vAo 


‘puno 


[ 
| Height against a 


Soil; and whether 
trenched and pre- 
pared, or not pre- 
pared. 


Substratum. 


Probable Height 
in Ten ‘Years. 


‘SMOIS 
901], oY} 
aaa 
eB) pal 
ayy Jo 


OUR NT 


“sog-d pue 


“79g *d TAT ‘ON SOD IT “pLDe) 
_poyeiominus savlnoyaeg 

Jaqjo ayy jo Aue pue ‘syreutoyy 

Je1ousy) ‘ainsodx@ pues uonenziy 


ayy UL 


Floricultural and Botanical Notices. 583 


Art. Il. Floricultural and Botanical Notices of newly introduced 
Plants, and of Plants of Interest previously in our Gardens, supple- 
mentary to tke latest Editions of the “ Encyclopedia of Plants,” 
and of the “ Hortus Britannicus.” 


Curtis's Botanical Magazine ; in monthly numbers, each containing 
eight Plates; 3s. 6d. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Hooker, 
King’s Paaeeson of Botany in the University of Glasgow. 

Edwards's Botanical Register ; in monthly numbers, each containing 
eight plates; 4s. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Lindley, 
Professor of Botany in the London University. 

Sweet's British Flower-Garden ; in monthly numbers, each containing 
four plates; 3s. coloured, 2s. 3d. plain. Edited by David Don, 
Esq., Librarian to the Linnean Society. 


** THE indefatigable Drummond, the assistant naturalist in Capt. 
Sir John Franklin’s overland expedition, bids fair to make as 
valuable botanical collections in the extreme southern territories 
of the United States as he did in the British possessions in 
North America. From Louisiana, whence, among other inter- 
esting plants, he has added to our gardens the rare Nuttallza 
Papaver and Sarracéna psittacina, he has entered the province 
of ‘Texas; and from the embouchure of the Rio Brazos, and 
from San Felipe de Austin in the interior, he has sent very 
valuable despatches, both of the animal and vegetable produc- 
tions.” (Dr. Hooker, in Bot. Mag., t. 3361., Nov. 1834.) 


PoLyPETALOUS DicoTyLEDONOUS PLANTS. 
XV. Magnoliaceze. 


3488, TALAU' MA. (The vernacular name of the South American species.) 13.6. Sp. 3. 
Candéllz Blume Decandolle’s %{_] fra 15 f.mr Crea.Taw Java 1827. L p.l Bot. r reg. 1709 
Magnodléa odoratissima Retnwardt. 

See p. 565. Its flowers perfume the air with so delicious an 
odour, that the very Javanese cultivate it. In Europe it is a 
tender stove plant, increased only by inarching upon Magnolza 
(Talaima Blume) pumila, or by layers, or by having a pot of 
earth fastened round a wounded branch. (Bot. Reg., Nov.) 

** Dr, Blume has ascertained Magndléa pumila to be also a Talatima.” (Bot. Reg., Nov.) 

The blossoms of this compact little evergreen shrub are also 
very fragrant: they are rather freely produced in our stoves. 

XXVI. Bombacee. 

2030. ERIODE’/NDRON 18146 anfractudsum 
2 caribe*um Hook. Caribbean *%([-)tm 70 Crea.R W. Indies 1739. S p.l Bot. mag. 3360 
E. caribe‘um Hort. Brit. No. 18148. 

A tree, anative of the West Indies; but the interesting figures 
and description of it published (Bot. Mag., Nov.) have been 
prepared from living plants of it cultivated in Madeira, Here 
it thrives ; and is eercemicd avery interesting object, in its straight 
slender stem clear of branches to a peneien able height, “its 


spreading head of nearly horizontal branches, its large “digitate 
mm 2 


584 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


leaves, and its flowers produced towards the ends of the branches. 
These are about the size of those of the tulip tree ; conspicuous, 
handsome, fragrant, and honey-bearing: the petals are of a 
delicate pale primrose or cream colour, with the part a little 
above their base of a deep purplish red. 

XLII. Philadélphee. 

DEU’TZIA Thun. & (Named, by Thunberg, after John Deutz, sheriff of Amsterdam, &c. ; 
who was one of the gentlemen by whose assistance that botanist was enabled to prosecute his 
researches in Japan.) 10. 3. Sp. L— 

scabra Thun. rough-leafed Se or 6? my WwW Japan 1833. C co Bot. reg. 1718 
Introduced, in 1833, by J. Reeves, Esq.; who presented a 

plant of it to the Horticultural Society. This plant has pro- 
duced the specimen figured, and supplied the means of the 
following information : — Detitzza scabra is a hardy shrub, of 
small dimensions; which thrives in common garden soil, and 
may be propagated, without difficulty, by cuttings or layers. 
“‘ It appears to require to be trained to a stick, as its branches 
are not stiff enough to stand erect; and it seems to have some- 
thing of a climbing habit: it is doubtful, however, whether this 
is not owing to weakness in its cultivated state.” ‘The leaves are 
opposite, in pairs, ovate, acuminate, and serrate; dark green. 
The flowers are white, five-petaled, not so large as those of a 
snowdrop; but produced, many together, in numerous clusters 
at the tips of the branches; and thus, in contrast with the dark- 
green foliage, render the plant a very ornamental one. (Bot. 
Reg., Nov.) A figure of this species had just previously been 
published in part iv. of Royle’s Mlustrations of the Botany and 
other Branches of the Natural Elistory of the Himalayan Moun- 
tains, and of the Flora of Cashmere. 
XLVI. Cactea. 


8359, ECHINOCA’CTUS. : 
oxygona Lk. & 0. sharp-angled 7) gril... PaRo Brazil 1831? Cs. Bot. reg. 1717 


The stem is from 10 in. to 1 ft. in height, and nearly 10 in. in 
diameter at the top. ‘The flowers proceed from the ridges, about 
the middle of the stem: they are nearly 1 ft. long. Petals of a 
pale rose colour: those of the specimen figured remained ex- 
panded about forty-eight hours. ‘The figure has been derived 
from the unrivalled collection (late Mr. Hitchen’s) of Mr. F. 
Mackie, Nursery, Norwich. See p.63. (Bot. feg., Nov.) 
XLVII. Onagrarie. 
1183. @NOTHERA. 
Drumméndii Hook. Drummond's -&« A] or 22? aus Y Texas 1833, Cs.1 Bot.mag. 336! 


Mr. Drummond has sent the seeds of this and of another 
species of Ginothéra from Brazosia ; both of which have flowered 
copiously in the Glasgow Botanic Garden. ‘The flower of G. 
Drummé6ndzz vies in size and colour with that of G@. macro- 
carpa, missouriénsis, and grandiflora. Its stems are decumbent, 
branched, and succulent. It flourishes in the open air, though 
a native of Texas. (Bot. Mag., Nov.) 


supplementary to Encyc. of Plants and Hort, Brit, 585 


LXXVII. Leguminose. 


2144. KENNE‘DY4, 
193794 nigricans Lindl. dark-corollaed $ |_| or 3? f.jn D.P.G N. Holland 1832? Cs.p Bot.reg.1715 


This is the species described, without a specific name, in 
p- 285. 348. It was raised by Boyd Miller, Esq., of Collier’s 
Wood, near Mitcham, Surrey, from seeds gathered in New 
Holland by Dr. Nisbet. 


1980. ADE/SMIA. : 
Loudinza Hook. & Arnott Loudon’s ##__] or 2 my.jn Y Chile 1832. Sp. Bot. reg. 1720 
Louddnia anthylloides Bertero MSS., according to Mr. Thomas Bridges, Valparaiso. 


For particulars on its habit, and the culture of it, see [X. 484. 


2837. ACA‘CIA. 
24817a plumdsa Lowe feathery-Yd. _& (_) or 20? Y C00 000 005 C s..p Bot. mag. 3366 


Figured and described from living specimens in Madeira; 
but it is conjectured that the species is cultivated there, and has 
been derived from some other country. It is stated to be a 
most elegant climbing shrub, with long, weak, diffuse, inter- 
weaving branches; and most delicate and lovely foliage, the 
leaves resembling gracefully curved or drooping plumes of fea- 
thers, of a yellow-green colour, 6 in. to 8 in. long, and 2 in. to 
4in. broad: each leaf consists of very numerous minute leaf- 
lets, most symmetrically disposed. ‘The flowers are not remark- 
ably conspicuous. ‘The pod and seed are large in proportion to 


other parts of the plant. (Bot. Mag., Nov.) 
CXXI. Pittosporee. 


671. BILLARDIE'RA. 
5529a ovalis Lindl. oval-lfd. $ _|pr 20? my Gsh.Y  V.Diemen’s Land 1833? Ss.p Bot.reg.1719 

For “ §_,” in Hort. Brit. Nos, 5527. to 5532., read “$ .”? 

Nearly related to B. longiflora: it has a more oval obtuse 
leaf, and a smaller and shorter flower. The flowers change in 
colour, according to their age, from greenish yellow t6 dark 
purple. Dr. Lindley has suggested that this species of Billar- 
diéra, with all the others, and the Sdllya (he has presented 
reasons in maintenance of the generic distinctness of this plant) 
heterophylla, are ‘ quite hardy enough to live in this country, 
trained to a west wall, if protected from wet in winter: at all 
events, a cold pit would be ample protection for them.” Mr. 
Lowe, Nursery, Clapton, has introduced B. ovalis. (Bot. Reg., 
Nov.) In the same place, the characteristics of an allied New 
Holland plant, of great beauty, are given from Mr. Allan Cun- 
ningham, who discovered it in 1822. It is named 

CHEIRANTHE’RA Cun. MSS. linearis Cun. MSS. (Chetr, the hand, anthera, an anther ; 

the anthers bend away from the ovary, forming themselves into a line slightly curved, like the 


fingers of an open hand; resembling what occurs in the pleurandras of the same country.) It is 
an upright shrub, with linear entire clustered leaves, and blue erect blossoms disposed in corymbs. 


CXXXI. Passijloree. 


3472. MALESHE’/RBIA. 
linearifdlia Pozy. linear-lfd. QO? —j or 123 aut P.B Andes of Chile 1831. S1t Bot. mag. 3362 
M. pee Doe in Ed, Ph. Journ, 1827, M. coronata Don in Sw. Br. Fl. Gard. 167. See Gard. 
Mag. viii. 722. 3 = 


TT 3 


586 Floricultural and Botanical Notices. 


Mownoreratous DicoryLEDONOUS PLANTS. 
CLXX. Ervicee. 


521. AZA‘LEA 4341 indica [ Bot. reg. Gas 
var. variegata Lindl. variegated-corollaed % __| or 3 my Ro. W China 1832. 


The celebrated variegated Chinese azalea; to procure ence 
alive, so many attempts have been made, in vain, for these 
twenty years. The living plant or plants of it, imported b 
M‘Killigan, and purchased by Mr. Knight, Chelsea (see IX. 
4'74..)s has flowered with Mr. Knight ; ane has, it seems (X. 
281.), plants of it for sale. (Bot. iteg. -» Nov.) 

CCIX. Gesneree. 

1698. GESNE‘RId. ; [of bot. Nov. 1834, fig. 


15332a Coéperé Paxton Mz. Cooper’s % A or2my.jn S Brazil 1829? Cs.l.p Paxton’s mag. 
*¢ G. bulbdsa Hook. Bot. Mag. 3041. ; ”? not, we presume, of Bot. Reg. 343. 


Received from Brazil, to the late Mrs. A. Harrison, by her 
brother. Mr. Paxton is convinced, by repeated observation, 
that it is distinct from G. bulbosa. He has named it after Mr. 
Cooper of Wentworth Gardens, who cultivates the gesnerias 
with remarkable success. 

CCXI. Scrophularinec. 


1783. MI/MULUS 15900 luteus 
var. Youngaéna Lod.? Mr. Young’s & ¥ or 2 jl.au Y.spot. Chile 1833? D pt Bot.mag.3363 


Received, at the Glasgow Botanic Garden, from Messrs. 
Loddiges, by this name. Tt is certainly among the most beau- 
tiful a the varieties: it has the corolla of a rich full yellow, and 
every segment marked with a large blotch of a rich red brown 
inclining to blood colour. (Bot. Mag., Nov.) 


65. CALCEOLA‘RIA 279954 crenatiflora Cav, Gard. Mag. 9. 620. [D lfm.s Sw. fl. gar. 2. s. 262 
knypersliénsis D. Don Knypersley Hall y AJ org jns  Y.Dp.Br English hybrid 1834? 
oulnea $ 


A hybrid offspring of C. cnenanne and C. atrosang 
raised. by Mr. P. N. Don, at Knypersley Hall, Staffordshire, 
the residence of J. Bateman, sq. It is of more robust growth 
than C. crenatiflora. The corolla is of a bright yellow; the 
lower lip orbicular, having a large patch of a chocolate brown. 
(The Brit. Flower-Garden, Nov.) 

CCXX. Verbenacee. 


1749. VERBESNA 28420 pulchella 
var. corélla-Alhida whitish-corollaed # — |or 1jn.ss Wsh Garden at Coul 1834. C co 


Out of four plants raised, this spring, from seeds of V. pul- 
chélla, two have proved ere. ener This variety is a 
valuable addition to the ornaments of the flower-garden. It 
differs from V. pulchélla in these particulars: the absence of 
colouring matter in the limb of the corolla; the throat slightly 
touched with yellow, just sufficient to give warmth, as an artist 
might say; the anthers want the purple tint, as do the angles of 
the stem; and the stem is devoid of the numerous purple dots 
which are present upon the stem of V. pulchélla itself. The 
variety is a plant of more lively appearance. 

Verbena pulchélla and chamaedr ifolia, planted in beds, succeed 


Domestic Notices : — England. 587 


here (Coul, Scotland), during the summer months, quite as well 


as in England ; and, just now (Oct. 16.), we have in full flower, 


in the open air, VY. pulchélla and chameedrifolia, Heliotropium 

ON \ . oe 4 Ale ° Xe , CO 
peruvianum, Petunia nyctaginiflora, Lobelza linearis; Fuchsza 
microphylla, tenélla, virgata, gracilis, and coccinea; Alonsoa 
incisifolia and grandiflora [?]; with numerous varieties of pelar- 


goniums. Alonsda grandiflora [?], from seed, we find more 
ornamental than from cuttings. In the plant from seed, the 
racemes of beautiful flowers keep an upright position; in the 
plant from a cutting, they soon become prostrate, and partly 
hidden by the luxuriant and dense herbage below. — G. M. 
Ljitiott. Coul, Oct. 16. 1834. 


MonocorTyLEDONOUS PLANTS. 


CCXL. Orchidee. § Vandex. 


25387a BATEMA/NNTZJA Lindl. (James Bateman, Esq., of Knypersiey Hall, Senate an 
ardent collector and successful cultivator of orchideous epiphytes. ) 20.1. Sp. po 
Colléyz Lindl. Colley’s [A] or 2 au P.W.G Demerara 1834. D p.r.w Bot. reg. 1714 


A very handsome species, extremely different from the species 
of any genus hitherto described. It is named Colléyz, in honour 
of Mr. Colley, Mr. Bateman’s collector in Demerara. ‘The 
plant has somewhat the aspect of a Maxillaria, has pseudo-bulbs, 
obovate-oblong plaited leaves, and a pendulous raceme of flowers 
springing from the base of the pseudo-bulbs. ‘The sepals and 
petals are of a brownish purple within; without, green: the 


labellum white. (Bot. Reg., Nov.) 


Art. III. Doniestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


CHENOPO DIUM Quinda.— Humboldt states (as we have quoted in the 
Encyc. of Gard., 2d edit., § 948.) that this plant, in Mexico, ranks in utility 
with the potato, the maize, and the wheat. The leaves are used as spinach or 
sorrel, or as greens; and the seeds in soups and broths, or as rice. Through- 
out great part of South America, and especially in Peru, the seeds are in 
as common use as rice is in Hindostan. The seeds are considered more 
heating than rice, and on that account they are frequently given to domestic 
poultry to make them lay early. The plant is an annual, and in general 
appearance resembles the A’triplex horténsis, or French spinach; and, under 
the same circumstances of soil, climate, &c., will grow to about the same height 
as that plant. The seeds are small, yellowish white, round, somewhat flat- 
tened, about a line in diameter, and, on a cursory glance, might be mistaken 
for those of millet. Mixed with the latter seeds, and fermented, a pleasant 
kind of beer is said to be produced. They are contained in a single envelope, 
from which they are very easily separated. The Quinoa was first introduced 
into England in 1822; and it has ripened seeds at Kew. No particular 
notice, however, appears to have been taken of the plant till this season, 
when it has been grown by A. B. Lambert, Esq., V.P.L.S., at Boyton, where 
it has ripened abundance of seeds on plants varying from 3 ft. to 7 ft. in 
height. These seeds Mr. Lambert will, no doubt, distribute all over Europe ; 
and, we trust, the plant will now have a fair trial both in gardens and fields. 
To do any good i in producing nutritious seeds, the plant should be subjected 
to field culture, in which we see not the slightest difficulty. It ee be 

TT 4 


588 Provincial Horticultural Socteties : — 


sown very thinly in drills, 3 ft. apart, at about the same season as barley, and 
the plants afterwards thinned to the distance of 1 ft. apart. There appears, 
at present, no reason whatever why it should not become as common in the 
fields of Europe as barley, wherever that grain can be cultivated. In the 
mean time, we hope it will be tried first in gardens, in order to raise abun- 
dance of seed for future experiments in the field. 

Dombey, the botanical traveller, on his return from Peru, was lavish in 
praise of the Quinda as a valuable esculent, and took great pains to naturalise 
it in France; but the seeds which he brought with him failed, and it is un- 
certain, at this moment, whether the plant is any where on the Continent of 
Europe, unless, perhaps, in Spain. Great credit is due to Mr. Lambert for 
having been the first to prove that it may be grown in England as well, in all 
respects, as it can in Mexico and Peru; and for directing public attention to 
it (at a meeting of the Linnzan Society, Nov. 4. 1834) as a plant calculated 
to rank with the potato in its copious supply of human food. The circum- 
stance of its having been in the country since 1822 (see Hort. Brit., p. 99., in 
which a green and a red variety are mentioned), shows that it is not sufficient 
to bring useful plants into the country, but that, to make them truly service- 
able to society, they must be properly introduced as such, by forcibly pointing 
out the purposes to which they are applied in their native country. Mr. 
Lambert has kindly promised us a few seeds for distribution, which we shall 
leave for that purpose with Mr. Charlwood, at his seedshop, 14, Tavistock 
Row, Covent Garden. 


Art. IV. Notices of the Exhibitions of the Provincial Horticultural 
Societies for 1834. 


TuouGcu some new Horticultural, or rather Floricultural, Societies have 
been established in England during the present year, we have missed accounts 
of some that have been long established; and several formerly flourishing 
societies have, we fear, been given up, or are in a declining state. We have 
had no account of any of the Lancaster exhibitions; and only a list of the 
number of prizes gained by each individual at those of Manchester. We 
have, likewise, only one very slight notice of the exhibitions at Bristol, which 
used to be of a very superior description ; and have received either no account, 
or, at least, very slight ones, of several others. 

To counterbalance this apparent falling off, the newly established society 
at Bath seems to have met with the most brilliant success. Between 2000 
and 3000 persons have attended each Meeting ; and the only complaints have 
been of want of room to view the flowers. s 

Several new societies have been formed in Berkshire, chiefly for florists’ 
flowers; and in Birmingham, and some other places, societies, already esta- 
blished, have been partially remodelled, and greatly improved. 

In Yorkshire, the exhibitions have been very numerous and very good ; 
and, in Devonshire and Cornwall, we have been much pleased to observe ac- 
_counts, not only of the superiority of the exhibitions, but also of the great num- 
ber and excellence of the cottagers’ prizes. These have not been so numerous 
in the North: for what reason we know not. The accounts from Jersey and 
Guernsey are very satisfactory; in the latter island, especially, the progress 
of horticultural pursuits, since the establishment of the society, has been 
equally rapid and decided. In Wales there is very little change. In Scotland, 
2 taste for modelling, drawing plans, preserving specimens, &c., which we are 
very g’ad to see, appears spreading among the young gardeners; and this 
taste has, no doubt, received an impetus from the moss-houses, &c., displayed 
in the admirable exhibitions of the Messrs. Drummond at Stirling. In Ireland 
‘there is a remarkable improvement ; and we attribute it, in a great measure, 
to that excellent periodical the Irish Farmer's and,Gardener’s Magazine ; the 
best, as we have always said, of all the Gardeners’ Magazines that have sprung 
up since ours commenced. 


Bedfordsnire, Berkshire, Buckinghamshire, Cambridgeshire. 589 


We embrace this opportunity of calling the attention of the secretaries of 
all horticultural societies to the subject of our forthcoming Arboretum Britan- 
nicum. Weare desirous of procuring accounts, descriptions, and measure- 
ments of remarkable indigenous trees and shrubs, and of all foreign trees 
and shrubs whatever, in every part of the British Islands, in order to enable 
us to give a complete county history of trees and plantations. We have 
given, in another page (p. 582.), a specimen of the plates of this work, and a 
tabular form for recording the dimensions and other particulars of each spe- 
cies. We have circulated above 1500 of these forms, with the genera to be 
contained in the work printed on them; but, as there must be many hundreds 
of gardeners who have not received a copy of this circular, who yet can com- 
municate to us important information, we request them to copy out the form 
(p. 582.) on a large foolscap page, and to fill up the columns with the particulars 
of all the remarkable species of native or foreign trees which are under their 
charge, or come within their observation. We refer them to what we have 
said on the subject in our preceding Number, p. 558—564. 


ENGLAND. 


BrprorpsHire. — The Bedfordshire Horticultural Society. April 25. We 
were informed that a meeting of this Society was to be held as above; but no 
particulars of the show have reached us. _ 

July 18. At the annual summer show, a great number of beautiful car- 
nations and picotees were exhibited; and Messrs, Pope, Brinkler, and Hogg 
were the most successful candidates. (Northampton Mercury, April 26.) 

BerksHire. — Royal Berks Horticultural Society. May 14. The crowd 
was so excessive, that it was scarcely possible to obtain a view of the flowers. 
The tulips, however, appeared not so numerous as usual. Mr. Clark and the 
Rey. J. Tyso gained the first prizes for tulips; as did Mr. Allnatt the first prize 
for the pansies. The articles exhibited by cottagers for prizes were very good. 

Reading Horticultural Society. —May 21. This was the first meeting of the 
Society. Messrs. Brown of Slough, and Mr. Priest, nurseryman, Reading, 
contributed several fine specimens; and Mr. Clark, Mr. Allnatt, and Mr. Tyso 
were successful candidates for flowers. There were five cottagers’ prizes. 
The room was excessively crowded. 

Henley Horticultural Society.— May 13. The cottagers’ prizes formed by 
far the most interesting portion of this show, though a great variety of beau- 
tiful plants were exhibited from the gardens of the nobility and gentry in the 
neighbourhood. It was the first show of the Society. : 

BuckiNGHAMSHIRE. — The Buckingham Domestic Horticultural Meeting. 
July 22. This was the annual dinner of the Society; and it was numerously 
attended. The room was tastefully decorated with flowers. (Northampton 
and Leamington Free Press, Aug. 2.) 

CamBripGESHIRE. — The Cambridgeshire Horticultural Society. March 19. 
The articles were numerous, and of the first quality; they consisted principally 
of apples, rhubarb, cucumbers, cabbages and other vegetables ; hyacinths and 
polyanthus narcissuses: in gaining the prizes for which, C. Pemberton, Esq., 
was the most successful candidate. The principal green-house plant exhibited 
was a very beautiful specimen of Caméilia japonica (Chandler’), shown by 
Mr. Biggs; who also gained prizes for a pot of pinks and an Azalea indica 
rosea. There were but three cottagers’ prizes. (Cambridge Chron., March 21.) 

April 16. This show was principally for auriculas and_polyanthuses, of 
which a great variety were exhibited. Among the former, Booth’s Freedom, 
and, among the latter, George the Fourth, seem to have been most successful. 
The prize for the four best double primroses was awarded to Mr. Denson ; and 
the colours were white, crimson, yellow, and lilac. There were five cottagers’ 
prizes, three of which were gained by Jokn Webb of Bourne. (Jodid., 
April 25.) een 

May \4, This exhibition was “ the most splendid which it has been the 
good fortune of the Sociéty to present.” The principal articles were tulips, 
anemones, ranunculuses, and pelargoniums, of which some very fine varieties 


590 Provincial Horticultural Societies :— 


were exhibited. Some cabbages, raised from cuttings by Mr. Denson, excited 
considerable attention; as did a grafted pelargonium, exhibited by Mr. Searle. 
There were six cottagers’ prizes for fruit and vegetables ; and five prizes given 
for the best cultivated cottage gardens. The highest of these prizes (20s.) 
was gained by James Hewitt of Wimpole. (Jdid., May 16.) 

June 18. Ranunculuses, roses, and pinks were the chief attractions at this 
exhibition. The first prize, for strawberries (Keen’s seedling), 37 to the 
pound, was gained by Mr. Dall of Wimpole. There were eight cottagers’ 
prizes. (Jbid., June 20.) 

July 9. The carnations and picotees, which were the principal attractions 
at this exhibition, were shown chiefly by Mr. Hogg of Paddington, Mr. Wid- 
nall of Granchester, and many others. Some beautiful georginas were shown 
by Mr. Widnall, Mr. Green, and the Rev. A. Fitch. (Jdid., July 11.) 

Sept. 10. The grand show and dinner attracted a very numerous company ; 
to whom the beauty and excellence of the articles exhibited, and the elegant 
decorations of the room, seemed to give general satisfaction. The decorations 
“ comprised a collection of lofty arches, arranged as a hexagon around a 
pillar, on the top of which was placed a splendid fuchsia. From a point on 
the sides of the hexagon sprang three triumphal arches, occupying the remain- 
der of the tables. The shaft of each arch was surmounted by a Corinthian 
capital formed of georginas, the colours of which were elegantly varied. The 
framework of the whole was tastefully decorated with laurels and georginas 
intermixed. Not less than six or eight thousand blooms were employed in 
the ornamental parts of this exquisitely beautiful show. Add to this the 
magnificent exhibition of fruits, flowers, and vegetables which covered the 
tables, and the assemblage of the ‘ fairest flowers of the creation, who graced 
the show by their presence, and we will venture to affirm that the coup d’eil 
was as imposing as.the most imaginative mind could conceive.” The principal 
flowers exhibited were georginas ; and those of Mr. Brewer and Mr. Widnall, 
among which were several seedlings, were the most admired. There were no 
cottagers’ prizes. (Tbid., Sept. 19.) 

Cambridge Florists’ Society.— June 16. This show was for ranunculuses, 
pinks, androses. The flowers were extremely fine; particularly the pinks and 
roses, which were truly splendid, much better than on former occasions. 
There were also two elegant collections of pansies exhibited by Messrs. Wid- 
nall and Brewer; and an extremely fine Fachsa globosa of Mr. Widnall’s ; 
also a beautiful specimen of the Alstreeméria Pelegrina, belonging to the same 
cultivator ; and Mr. Brewer exhibited a fine Salpigléssis grandiflora. (Jéid., 
June 20.) 

CuEsHIRE. — Chester Florists’ Meeting. April 28. This exhibition was for 
auriculas and polyanthuses; and some very fine flowers were shown. The 
best auricula was Freedom, shown by R. F. Buckley, Esq. ; who gained many 
other prizes, and was, we think, the most successful competitor. 

Cornwati. — Royal Horticultural Society of Cornwall. The pine-apple, 
shown by M. Williams, Esq., of Trevince, which obtained the highest prize, was 
a very handsome fruit, and high-flavoured. The melons were large and well- 
formed, as were also the grapes. Some of the apples of last year were beauti- 
fully preserved specimens, especially the Ribston pippin, Aromatic, and Non- 
pareil. The strawberries, exhibited by Mr. Stevens of Penryn, were the finest 
we have seen this season. The plants exhibited by G. C. Fox, Esq., were 
much admired. The heaths, from Sir Charles Lemon’s collection, were con- 
sidered good specimens ; but the greatest novelty to us was a seedling variety 
of Calampelis scabra, from the garden of E. Turner, Esq.: the flowers are 
much larger than the original kind, and of a paler colour. ‘The show of 
pelargoniums was very beautiful. The assortment of vegetables was good for 
the season, particularly of rhubarb, peas, potatoes, onions, lettuces, and carrots. 
A dish of the O’xalis crenata, the produce of this year, was exhibited from 
the garden of L. C. Daubuz, Esq., of Truro: some of the tubers were of a 
good size, and very handsome. We understand that Sir C. Lemon, Bart., has 
made the experiment, this season, of cultivating it in the field, the same as 


Cheshire, Cornwall, Cumberland. 591 


potatoes. Twenty-two cottagers’ prizes were distributed, of which H. Lobb 
and J. Taylor gained by far the greater number. Prizes were given for indi- 
genous plants; and considerable interest was excited by the circumstance, 
that several of the species were found to be new to the Cornish flora. W.M. 
Tweedy, Esq., presented some seeds of the Deodar cedar, just received from 
Dr. Wallich; who was, in consequence, elected an honorary member of the 
Society. (Royal Cornwall Gazette, May 31.; and West Briton and Cornwall 
Advertiser, May 30.) 

Aug. 27. This exhibition was principally for fruit, and green-house and 
stove plants. There were some fine carnations and georginas. The plants sent 
by nurserymen were placed in a separate room. There were thirty-three prizes 
for cottagers, six of which were gained by Henry Lobb of St. Glenyias. The 
most rare plant exhibited was a new species of Cymbidium, picked up in the 
woods, near Rio Janeiro, by Captain Sutton. Sir Charles Lemon sent two 
fine Orchidez ; and he and his gardener, Mr. Booth, received the thanks of 
the Society. (The West Briton and Cornwall Advertiser, Aug. 29.) 

Oct. 22. This was a very interesting exhibition. Notwithstanding the 
advanced season of the year, the display of flowers and fruit was beautiful and 
extensive. The president, Lord Boscawen, in adverting to the superiority of 
the articles from the cottagers’ gardens, took occasion to state that “an excel- 
lent treatise, entitled the Cottager’s Manual, had been prepared by Mr. Booth,” 
which he strongly recommended. He also mentioned that, in one or two cases, 
prizes had been fraudulently obtained for articles which were not the bona fide 
produce of the cottager’s garden; which we were sorry to hear. Among the 
articles exhibited were two new passionflowers, and a new and undescribed 
species of Amaryllis, from Maldonado, with small bright pink flowers ; which, 
we believe, is only as yet in the collection of Sir C. Lemon. A new variety 
of Lobélia, raised by Mr. Stephens of Truro, attracted much attention. It is 
nearly allied to Low’s Purple; but the flowers are of a redder colour, and, we 
think, much superior to that pretty variety. Miss Warren of Flushing, whose 
indefatigable labours in this department we have so often had occasion to 
notice, exhibited another valuable collection of dried plants, to which the prize 
was awarded. The neatness of their arrangement, and the excellent manner 
in which the specimens were prepared, deserve great praise; and show that 
this lady is a perfect mistress of the art, and a most valuable member of the 
Society. Miss A. M. Fox of Falmouth exhibited some specimens of FGngi, 
which were beautifully preserved; and Mr. Lobb of Trewince, an excellent 
collection of indigenous plants. Adiaéntum Capillus Véneris, found in a rare 
and new habitat, was exhibited by the Rev. J. Punnett, St. Erth. (Zhe West 
Briton and Cornwall Advertiser, Oct. 24.) ; 

CuMBERLAND. —Whitehaven Horticultural Society. April 25. The auriculas 
which gained the prizes at this meeting were particularly clear and firm, the 
edges being clearly defined, and in no part mingling with the body of the flower. 
There were several others, very fine indeed; one cluster, in particular, which 
would doubtless have carried away the prize; but there being one flower in 
the bunch which had a confused edge, it spoiled the pan. The hyacinths were 
also very clear and firm, and excited much attention. A table was set out 
with some very tempting fruit; especially apples and pears, which had been 
so well preserved from last year, that they looked as if they had only just been 
plucked from the trees. Some very choice vegetables excited general admir- 
ation: and, upon the whole, we are bound to say that, considering the unfa- 
vourable season, this was one of the best displays the Society has ever made. 
Mr. R. Elliot gained by far the greater number of prizes. Among the things 
he exhibited was a dish of peas, admirably preserved from the growth of the 
last year. [We should be happy to receive an account of his method.] Mr. J. 
Clark, Mr. W. Ellwood, and Thomas Falcon, Esq., were also very successful. 
There were no cottagers’ prizes. (Cumberland Pacquet, April 29.) 

May 23. This show was for tulips; and was one of the most superb ever 
witnessed in this county, there being more than six hundred fine specimens of 
those beautiful flowers in the room: one candidate alone, Mr. Thornton of 


592 Provincial Horticuitural Societies : — 


Keswick, showed upwards of one hundred. The most striking object im the 
room, after the tulips, was a bouquet, beautifully arranged in the form of the 
royal crown of England: the cushion on which the crown rested was repre- 
sented by a bed of moss; the lower range of flowers were white, to resemble 
the ermine; while the velvet lining of the crown had its prototype in some rich 
crimson flowers. The artist had farther kept up the character of the emblem, 
by placing some flowers of similar colours to the ruby, the emeralds, &c., m 
- different parts. A beautiful orange tree, with its rich green leaves and tender 
white blossoms, graced the centre of the room; and there were also capsicum 
plants, with their bright scarlet pods, and the rich pelargonium in all its exten- 
sive varieties: nor were the humbler families of our own fields neglected ; for 
there were many British plants to which premiums were awarded. The show 
of fruit was much smaller than usual: there were two pine-apples, however, 
which gained prizes. Among the vegetables we noticed some stupendous 
stalks of rhubarb, together with some large cucumbers grown in this vicinity. 
(Ibid., May 27.) 

Aug.7. This show, though not so large as some of its forerunners, was 
exceedingly interesting to the florist, in consequence of the many beautiful 
specimens of the carnation, especially those cultivated by Mr. Gird, which 
were the universal objects of admiration to every one who visited the room. 
The seedlings were certainly wonderful, some of them surpassing, in fulness 
of leaf and clearness of colour, most of the old flowers in the room: the 
edges were very distinctly defined, and the lines well preserved. It has been 
often stated that Mr. Gird had one of the finest beds of carnations in the 
county; and the number of prizes awarded to his skill, on this occasion, fully 
bears out the assertion. That gentleman obtained no fewer than 19 prizes 
out of the 26 awarded. Messrs. R. Elliot, J. Clark, W. Ellwood, J. Gaitskill, 
and W.Greener were also very successful. The bouquets were remarkably 
beautiful. (Zérd., Aug. 12.) 

DevonsuirE.— Devon and Exeter Floricultural Society. April\7. Among 
the plants and flowers we particularly noticed a splendid bouquet of turban 
ranunculuses exhibited by the Rev. G. Norris, Dix’s Field, grown without any 
protection, 500 ft. above the level of the sea, at Rose Craddock Villa, near 
Liskeard, in the county of Cornwall; a very fine bouquet of Brompton stocks 
from 8. Whittaker, Esq., Ide; the superb collection of ericas and other green- 
house plants of Edmund Granger, Esq. ; hyacinths, by Mr. Walker of Al- 
phington, measuring 21in. from the surface of the bed; an extraordinary 
auricula, by Mr. Webber, St. Sidwell’s, with 34 pips on one stem, double ane- 
mones, &c.; Mr. Clark’s auriculas and turban ranunculuses; Mr. Reynolds’s 
auriculas ; polyanthuses, pelargoniums, tulips, roses, &c. The exhibition was 
also, as usual, much indebted to the nurserymen, for the variety and excellence 
of the display. Messrs. Lucombe, Pince, and Co., who are ever forward in 
enriching these displays, exhibited some beautiful ericas, and a choice collection 
of green-house and hot-house plants. Their superb new Dutch double ane- 
mones, consisting of 100 distinct named varieties, were not only great novel- 
ties, but exceedingly beautiful. Among the roses was a new variety of the 
Rosa odorata, called the white camellia rose. The best seedling Calceolaria, 
was Pince’s precipua. We observe Hoge’s Treatise on the Pink and Carnation 
offered as one of the prizes for pmks at the June exhibition. (TZ'relawney’s 
Exeter Flying Post, April 24.) 

Devon and Exeter Botanical and Horticultural Society.— May 1. Fine 
specimens of plants were exhibited from the collections of Lord Rolle; S. T. 
Kekewich, E. Granger, J. Hart, R. Pattison, J. Sweetland, J. Gidley, Esquires ; 
Mrs. Wells, Dr. Tayleur, Dr. Miller, Col. Wright, L. Ponsford, Esq., Rev. R. 
Stephens, Mr. J. Clarke, Mr. Webber, Mr. J. Manley, Mr. Booth, Mr. Hall, 
Mr. Eardley, &e. Among many other articles worthy of notice were eight 
seedling auriculas, of the present year’s growth, and the largest turban ranun- 
culuses in the room, by Mr. Webber of St. Sidwells; and a sprig and flower 
from a plant, now 12 ft. high, of the Meliénthus mijor, which was raised from 
seed in 1831, by Mr. Ranney, and placed last spring in the open ground, where 


Devonshire. 593 


it has stood the winter without protection. But the grand attraction of the 
exhibition was the magnificent display of plants and flowers by Lucombe, 
Pince, and Co., who on this occasion actually exceeded their former displays. 
They exhibited a large and splendid collection of pelargoniums, conspicuously 
the finest in the room; some gorgeous specimens of that lovely genus, 
Amaryllis, of the richest and most brilliant colours, beautifully striped and va- 
riegated, several of which were seedlings of their own, and one of which, in 
particular, A. grandissima, was much admired ; some fine specimens of hardy 
shrubs ; that lovely hardy climber, the Wistarza Consequana ; anda very superb 
seedling hybrid rhododendron of their own raising, flowering for the first time 
this spring: it is of a rich full crimson colour, and is deeply spotted all over 
the upper parts of the flowers with black spots, quite distinct from any thing 
we have hitherto seen. They also exhibited 120 distinct named varieties of 
the double Dutch anemones, of the richest and most varied hues, as well as 
of the most compact and beautiful forms; nothing that we have hitherto seen 
in the way of double anemones can equal them: some of the flowers pro- 
duced in the room actually measured nearly 5in. in diameter. They had also 
a fine bouquet of roses, composed of the yellow China rose, the yellow Noisette, 
the white camellia rose, the Bourbon rose, &c. &c. Mr. Veitch, though he 
declined exhibiting for prizes, sent some large citrons, oranges, and lemons, 
from 4 ft. to 8 ft. high, covered with fruit and blossoms; a plant of the true 
crimson Rhododéndron arboreum, in blossom ; and many specimens of hardy 
hybrid rhododendrons, from the open ground, of rich crimson and deep rose 
shades, several of them beautifully spotted; also that elegant exotic climber, 
Tropz'olum tricoloram, covered with several hundred of its beautiful tricoloured 
flowers, of scarlet, purple, and yellow ; Tropze‘olum pentaphyllum, with unique 
ereen-spotted flowers; a collection of upwards of sixty varieties of ericas in 
bloom, &c. &c. Thirteen cottagers’ prizes were distributed, of which Thomas 
_ Crocker obtained five, and Thomas Coleman three. Among the indigenous 
plants was a specimen of J’xia Bulbocodium, which was not before known to 
exist in Devonshire in a wild state. One of the prizes given was for the best 
specimen of the citrus tribe raised without artificial heat. (Jdid., May 8.) 

July 10. As compared with the former exhibitions, this was scanty, neither 
‘Messrs. Lucombe, Pince, and Co., nor Mr. Charles Sclater, whose various 
plants and flowers used to add so muck to the splendour of these exhibitions, 
contributing: Messrs. Dymond, too, have relinquished a portion of their bu- 
siness, and, consequently, their supply was limited. Mr. Veitch was most li- 
beral in his contributions, but neither he nor Mr. Dymond competed for prizes : 
to the former, however, the thanks of the committee were awarded. The 
gentry of the county, also, did not contribute in the way in which they have 
been wont to do; but, notwithstanding these drawbacks, there was a rich and 
beautiful display of very choice productions ; and, whilst the fruits were of 
the most delicious qualities, the vegetables, in every variety, were excellent. 
A more numerous company also attended than on the preceding occasion. 
There were sixteen cottagers’ prizes, six of which were gained by Thomas 
Crocker. (Ibid., July 17.) 

Oct. 2. Messrs. Dymond and Co. had a splendid collection of seedling 
and other georginas, and some remarkably fine cockscombs ; and Mr. Veitch 
a variety of hardy and green-house shrubs. The fruits were remarkably fine, 
consisting of pines, melons, grapes, nectarines, peaches, pears, and apples. 
The grapes merit every thing that could be said in the way of encomium, 
many of them having been produced without fire heat, and yet being of the 
most full and luscious appearance. The apples, too, were extraordinary pro- 
ductions; and among them, two seedlings, from the gardens of E. Gattey, 
Esq., Harefield, Lympstone. These had never before been fruited in Devon- 
shire; and measured the one 15 in., the other 14: in. in cireumference. There 
were, also, on this table, several specimens of home-made wines, which were 
spoken of as being of very choice quality. The culinary vegetables were 
great variety, and exhibited the manifest improvement that has taken place in 
the modes of culture of those useful productions; nor was it by any means 


594 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


the least interesting feature in this exhibition, that a large proportion of them 
were from the gardens of cottagers. The vegetables grown on Dartmoor, by 
Thomas Spears, were of extraordinary size. The turnips varied from 15in. 
to 20 in. in circumference; and the carrots and eschalots were equally good. 
(Ibid., Oct. 9.) 

[Caméllia japonica var, Fordii. — This is a variety between Lady Hume’s 

Blush and the myrtle-leaved. We have just (Oct. 26.) seen a plant sent to 

- London for exhibition, by Messrs. Lucombe, Pince, and Co., and consider it 
very beautiful,and very distinct. We understand from Mr. Townsend, the 
foreman of the plant department in the Lucombe Nursery, who has shown 
the specimen to many of the amateurs about London, that it is universally 
admired.] 

North Devon Horticultural Society. — June 4. The brilliancy of the deco- 
rations was injured by a deficiency of georginas; but the show, in the choice 
variety of the plants, exceeded, in the estimation of the scientific judges, every 
preceding display for the season of the year. The table of culinary vegetables 
presented a fine display ; and the fruits were rich and abundant. An object 
of great curiosity was a miniature vine, growing in a pot, with fruit on it, pro-. 
duced by the Rev. J. L. Harding. The cottagers’ exhibition was not at all 
inferior to the productions of their wealthier neighbours; comprising the 
finest specimens of peas, potatoes, cabbages, onions, strawberries, apples, &c. 
The exhibition attracted the attendance of Messrs. Pontey and Rendle, from 
Plymouth, and Messrs. Lucombe and Pince, from Exeter. The latter ex- 
hibited a beautiful collection of pelargoniums; a great variety of calceolarias ; 
and a Rhododéndron arboreum album, in flower, for the first time, in Devon- 
shire: but the plant most admired was a Gesnéria maculata. Mr. Pontey 
had a very beautiful collection, embracing upwards of forty sorts of ranun- 
culuses ; a splendid specimen of the Alstroeméria aurantiaca, &c. &c. Mr. 
Rendle’s stand contained a numerous and beautiful assortment of pelar- 
goniums. Among the articles exhibited by amateurs were two by the Rev. 
C. Mules; one, a bouquet containing 100 different sorts of flowers; and the 
other, some cabbages, weighing above 20lb. each. Thirty-seven cottagers’ 
prizes were distributed. (Woolmer’s Exeter and Plymouth Gazette, June 7.; 
and the County and North Devon Advertiser, June 6.) 

Aug. 20. At the top of the room, the letter B., in compliment to Mr. 
Buck, the president for the present year, and the letters N. D. H. S. (North 
Devon Horticultural Society), were formed with an extensive selection of 
georginas of various shades; and in the centre of the scroll was represented 
a cornucopiz, with some very choice fruit. On each side of this were festoons 
of flower wreaths and large bouquets. The orchestra, as upon former occa- 
sions, was ornamented in front with flowers and evergreens, having intermixed 
with them the largest bouquet in the room, from the garden of the Rey. 
C. Mules of Muddiford: it was'a most splendid specimen of the kind. The 
walls at the lower end of the room were richly decorated with flowers, plants, 
&c. Over the chimneypiece was an extraordinary production of about 
twenty stupendous bunches of black grapes on a single shoot, from the garden 
of Karl Fortescue. Mr. Burge, nurseryman, of Barnstaple, contributed largely 
to the attraction in this part of the room. We observed his name neatly 
worked with yellow flowers on a ground of moss, which had a good effect 
among a fair collection of georginas, eighteen sorts of hollyhocks (some of 
them very choice), about fifteen sorts of China asters, twenty sorts of seed- 
ling heartsease, noisette roses, calceolarias, lobelias, and an All Saints cherry 
tree, beautifully covered with its pendulous fruits and full-blown flowers. The 
walls on the west side of the room were decorated with splendid bouquets of 
flowers, one of which, belonging to Mr. Bale, nurseryman, of Westacott, was 
about 5 ft. in height. Among the vegetables were several exceedingly large 
onions, belonging to Mr. H. Trix of Southmolton; they were sown on the 
20th of February, in a box [? bed] 3 ft. 3in. by 11ft.; and the box yielded 
126 onions, weighing 10511b. There were also some fine specimens of 


Devonshire. 595 


potatoes, Roman beans, peas, cabbages, cucumbers, beet root, celery, and 
other vegetable productions. In the room appropriated for the show of 
flowers, &c., by nurserymen at a distance was a very superior collection fur- 
nished by Mr. Veitch of Killerton. It consisted of about 200 varieties of the 
georgina, of almost every hue; among them, the new seedling white, Emma, 
Ariel, Jason, Criterion, and Alicia; 100 varieties of annuals, &c. There were 
forty cottagers’ prizes, of which Robert Dingle gained by far the greater 
number. (County and North Devon Advertiser, Aug. 22.) 

Oct. 7. The room was elegantly decorated with georginas; and Messrs. 
Bale, Burge, Pontey, Rendle, and Lucombe, Pince, and Co., &c., contributed as 
liberally as heretofore. There were some fine green-house plants exhibited, 
several of which were by Mr. Booth, from the gardens of Sir C. Lemon; and 
some excellent vegetables. In the cottagers’ room were some apples and 
pears of immense size. There were forty-five cottagers’ prizes, several of 
which were gained by John and Thomas Crang, and Sarah Harris. A very 
interesting scene now took place, in the distribution of prizes to four cottagers, 
who had produced testimonials of exemplary character. ‘The first prize, of 
4J., was awarded and paid to Roger Edgcumbe of Milton Damerel, recom- 
mended by William Law, Esq.; the second, of 3/., to Richard Rogerman of 
Horwood, recommended by the Rev. John Dene; the third, of 2/., to John 
Hunt of Fremington, recommended by G. A. Barber, Esq.; and the fourth, 
1/., to James Corney of Marwood, recommended by the Rey. Charles Mules. 
The president, on awarding the first prize to Roger Edgcumbe, said he was 
delighted to present him with the first token offered to a cottager who had 
brought up his family without relief from the parish, and in good moral. prin- 
ciples. The secretary read an additional testimony in favour of the character 
of Roger Edgcumbe, from which it appeared he has had ten children, six of 
whom are now living; that all the ten arrived at the age of twenty-one years ; 
that two of his daughters died, after long illness; that he paid the medical 
bills and funeral expenses; that he maintained the child of the deceased 
daughter a considerable time; that, in June last, his youngest son broke his 
leg, and had all his clothes burnt in the house of his master, a farmer, whose 
premises were destroyed by fire; that he has since maintained him, and paid 
for medicai attendance; that he never had a child bound apprentice to the 
parish, nor ever received relief; that the highest wages he ever received was 
1s, 2d. a day, and at the present time only 1s. This account in no way detracts 
from the deserving qualities of the other three, as the president handsomely in- 
timated on awarding their respective gratuities ; for which they returned thanks, 
and withdrew, with evident feelings of gratification at this public acknowledg- 
ment that they had fulfilled their duties in the station to which it had pleased 
God to callthem. (Jdid., Oct. 10.) 

Royal Devon and Cornwall Botanical and Horticultural Society. — May 22. 
Mr. Pontey’s stove and American plants were very much admired; as were 
the plants sent from the Duke of Bedford’s seat at Endsleigh, though the 
latter had travelled twenty miles. Many other very fine plants were ex- 
hibited ; but, we are sorry to say, some of the finest pelargoniums were almost 
completely ruined by the number of cuttings purloined by some of the 
visiters to the show. Such conduct is in the highest degree disgraceful. 
The secretary, after a few preliminary observations, called the attention of 
the meeting to a magnificent specimen of Victoria wheat, sent from Wembury 
by Sir E. Thornton, exhibiting from twenty to thirty stems, arising from one 
root, all in fine ear, although only in the 25th day of their growth, having 
been sown (according to the exhibition ticket attached) on the 27th of 
April. There were other fine specimens exhibited in ear, but none which 

-at all approached Sir Edward’s, in point of merit or the short period of 
their growth: the height of Sir Edward’s specimen was between 3ft. and 
4, ft. This isa bearded wheat, a kind not in general favour among the farmers, 
but in this instance we must suspend our judgment, in deference to the 
authority of Humboldt, until it has had a fair trial. The secretary next 


596 Prov. H. S.:— Durham, Gloucestershire, Herefordshire, 


called the attention of the meeting to Dale’s hybrid turnip. He also exhibited 
a specimen of the wood of the Cathartocarpus fistula, the pods of which are 
known in the shops under the name of Cassia fistula, and the pulp of which 
is the basis of the well-known preparation called the lenitive electuary. The 
timber of this tree gives out, both by boiling in water and by means of spirit, 
a most beautiful pink dye, of which the secretary exhibited a specimen in a 
bottle, together with a piece of silk dyed with it, and also a snuff-box turned 
out of the same wood, the grain of which was beautiful, and its odour on 
being rubbed agreeably aromatic. (Devonport Weekly Journal, May 29.) 

July. The principal interest of this exhibition arose from the specimens of 
ropes shown of pita and of hemp of the same size, in order to compare the 
relative strength of the two ropes. (Devonport Independent.) 

Duruam. — South Durham and Cleveland Horticultural Society. April 24. 
The fruit and culinary vegetables were not particularly abundant. Mr. 
T. Stevenson was by far the most successful competitor for the flowers. 

GLOUCESTERSHIRE. — The Bristol and Clifton Horticultural and Botanical 
Society. May 13. The display of plants and flowers exceeded in beauty 
and extent any previous collection at this season. The display of tulips was 
not so excellent as it would have been, if the show had been earlier. Among 
the anemones were noticed some remarkably large blooms. (Keene’s Bath 
Journal, May 19.) 

HEREFORDSHIRE. — Hereford Horticultural Society. April 22. Some very 
fine auriculas were shown. R. Parkinson, Esq., and Mrs. J. Phillips gained 
the most prizes. Of the polyanthuses, Mrs. J. Phillips and R. J. Powell, Esq. 
displayed the finest ; and of the hyacinths, decidedly Mr. Godsall. A plant 
of the original Alpine auricula was exhibited; and some fine large specimens 
of a seedling apple, raised at Stcke Edith Park, the seat of E. T. Foley, Esq., 
M.P. Some pansies, shown by R. J. Powell, Esq.,-were also much admired. 
(Hereford Journal, April 30.) 

Sept. 24. At this show, about thirty specimens were entered for com- 
petition more than at any previous show of the corresponding season of the 
year; and, when it is considered that the period fixed upon (although the 
same day of the month as last September’s display) was too late for peaches 
and nectarines, and that the crop of pears was very deficient, it is evident the 
georginas must have been much more abundant than at any previous ex- 
hibition; indeed, it is acknowledged that they were never seen here in such 
profusion and splendour as on this occasion. The asters were but scantily 
supplied; apples were abundant, and of first-rate quality; pears were not 
expected in profusion; but some excellent specimens were exhibited, par- 
ticularly six plates sent by Mr. Edwards of Bunshill, a non-subscriber, to 
whom probably all the prizes in that class would have been awarded, had he 
been a subscribing member. Another plate was shown, of Gansell’s berga- 
mot, excellent in quality, by Mr. Hooper, also a non-subscriber. The out- 
door grapes were remarkably fine, and generally fully matured; a proof of 
the forward state of the season. ‘The celery had taken its growth so rapidly, 
that gardeners had evidently not kept pace in blanching it; and the onicns 
were the finest ever shown here. On the centre of the large stage appeared 
a representation of a single striped georgina, composed of nearly 300 georgina 
blossoms, yellow and dark red; it was 6 ft. across, and had a splendid effect. 
The top petal supported a floral crown formed of georgina, hollyhock, and 
conyolvulus wreaths, the georgina being styled “ King of Flowers.” At the 
foot of his majesty’s throne were two cornucopie, pouring out the choice 
treasures of Flora and Pomona. The effect altogether was admired, and im- 
perted general satisfaction. (Jdid., Oct. 1.) ; 

HUNTINGDONSHIRE. — Huntingdon Horticultural Society. April 25. Two 
beautiful specimens of Pzednia Moztan were the great attraction of this ex- 
hibition. A number of fine auriculas, polyanthuses, hyacinths, and polyanthus 
narcissuses were much admired. 

LancasHIRE. — Rochdale Floral and Horticultural Society, April. The 


Lancashire, Leicestershire, Middlesex, Norfolk. 597 


flowers were very fine, particularly the hyacmths. The vegetables were not 
very abundant. — 7. W. 

Lancaster Floricultural and Horticultural Societies. —We fear these So- 
cieties are given up, as we have received no accounts of them this season, as 
heretofore. 

Manchester Horticultural and Botanical Society. — We have received no de- 
tailed account of the meetings of this Society. What has been sent to us is 
merely a printed list of the number of prizes that have been gamed by each 
individual. 

Lancaster Floral and Horticultural Society. — April 23. No details of this 
meeting have reached us. 

LeicestERSHIRE. — Hinckley Floral and Horticultural Society. July 23. 
The carnations were numerous, and many of them excellent; and the fruits 
and vegetables far exceeded in number and quality the expectations of the 
members. Several splendid productions were presented to the Society by 
Mr. Wilson, gardener to Earl Howe, which greatly added to the beauty and 
excellence of the exhibition, and were much admired. Among the curiosities 
deserving of notice were a beautiful bloom of the Stapélia, sent by Mr. Wood- 
man of Thorpe; and a fine specimen of skinless oats, imported from. Japan, 
and grown by Mr. Shipman. (Northampton and Leamington Free Press, Au- 
gust 2.) 

Mipp.esex.— The Metropolitan Society of Florists and Amateurs. Dec. 19. 
1833. This was a most extraordinary exhibition, considering the season of 
the year. Messrs. Rollison of Tooting, Messrs. Chandler of Vauxhall, and 
many others, obtained prizes. The camellias of Mr. Smith of Islington, and 
the pelargoniums of Mr. Dennis of Chelsea, were very much admired. 

April 16. 1834. We have already noticed this show, p. 235. The Hovea 
Célsz of the Messrs. Rollison was one of the finest plants of the kind ever ex- 
hibited. Mr. Pratt’s Dillw¥nza was also very fine. In our previous account, 
we erroneously stated these beautiful plants to have been sent by William 
Harrison, Esq., of Cheshunt. 

June 10., see p. 323.; June 19., p. 396; August 13. and 14., p. 516. We 
have since received a letter, signed E., complaining that, when we praised the 
liberality of Mr. Cross on this last occasion, we omitted to mention that he 
cleared above 700/. by the number of persons who came to the exhibition 
paying Ils. each. This may be true; but, had it not been for the fineness of 
the day, and the accessories provided by Mr. Cross, we doubt whether the 
flowers alone would have drawn together a sufficient number of persons to 
clear the expenses. As it was, the affair appears to have been advantageous 
to all parties. It must have done good to the Society, and the nurserymen 
who exhibited, by making both better known; and, if E.’s account of Mr. 
Cross’s profit be correct, it has also put a considerable sum into the pocket of 
a public-spirited and liberal individual. 

The Shows of the London Horticultural Society at Chiswick will be found 
noticed as follows: — May 10., p. 299.; June 7., p. 356.; July 5., p. 410.; 
and Sept. 13., p. 523. 

Finchley and North London Society.— April 23. This show was for auri- 
culas; that of June 18., for pinks; and that of July 22., for carnations and 
picotees. All contained fine specimens. 

Norroik.— The Horticultural Society of Norwich joined to their September 
meeting a horticultural déjetiner a la fourchette. The show of the morning was 
magnificent ; the display of georginas having surpassed any former exhibition ; 
and the amusements of the evening, which ended in a ball, appeared to give 
general satisfaction. (Bury and Norwich Post, Sept. 24.) 

Holt Horticultural Meeting. — This meeting, which was held two days after 
that of the Norwich Society, terminated in a similar manner. The morning 
exhibition was well attended. The cottagers’ table was well filled, and many 
prizes were awarded to them. Among the principal objects of attraction were 


Vou. X.— No. 57. UU 


598 Provincial Horticultural Societies: — Northamptonshire, 


the oranges and lemons from Major Milles’s conservatory, and a dish of the 
edible passiflora, which obtained an extra prize. The carrots and parsneps 
from Holkham were particularly admired; and, upon the whole, it might be 
termed a splendid collection. The show was followed by a déjeuner at the 
Shirehall, at which 130 ladies and gentlemen attended. (did.) 

Norwich Horticultural Society. — June 25. There was a profuse display of 
fruits, comprehending pines, grapes, melons, strawberries, raspberries, and, what 
are at this time of year more rare, apples in the best state of preservation. The 
great heat of the day, much increased by a very crowded room, caused many 
of the more delicate flowers to droop; but there was still enough of life and 
vigour in them to excite admiration. Different members of the Florists’ So- 
ciety ran away, as usual, with a large share of the prizes awarded to flowers ; 
and the country cottagers who exhibited their esculent vegetables and fruits 
had every reason to be satisfied with the liberal encouragement tendered to 
them. The Society, indeed, is in a very prosperous condition, numbering no 
fewer than 692 members, being twenty-five more than there were last year. 
Mr. Mackie’s collection of Orchidez excited great admiration. Mr. Hitchen 
had the merit, at a very great expense and trouble, to form this yaluable col- 
lection, which is supposed to be the most perfect in the kingdom. The plants 
have very much improved in health, growth, and luxuriance, since they have 
been removed from the smoke of the city to the fresh air at Mr. Mackie’s 
conservatories. (Bury and Norwich Post, July 2.) 

Diss Horticultural Exhibition. — May 22. The large assemblage of com- 
pany, and an excellent display of fruits, flowers, and vegetables, prove the 
great interest the Society still continues to excite in the neighbourhood ; and 
the increased number of cottagers, as competitors for prizes, equally indicates 
that the benefits already conferred on this industrious class are duly appre- 
ciated by them. On the subscribers’ table, we particularly noticed a fine col- 
lection of pelargoniums, from the conservatory of Thos. L. Taylor, Esq.; a 
great variety of hardy and exotic plants, exhibited by the Rev. G. R. Leathes, 
Miss Wilson, and Miss Browne; and some most beautiful apples and pears, 
by Thomas Havers, Esq. On the cottagers’ tables, in addition to many 
other specimens, were six large dishes of peas, seven of apples, nine of po- 
tatoes, and five brace of cucumbers. The number of prizes awarded to them 
was twenty-one. (Jbid., May 28.) 

June 26. The flowers were small and wanting in brilliancy, from the long 
drought ; and many of them dropped off before the room was closed. The 
strawberries were plentiful and remarkably fine, particularly Wilmot’s Superb 
and Keen’s Seedling, some of the former weighing sixteen to the pound. Bad, 
however, as the show was, we were much gratified at being informed that a 
gentleman (a stranger) was so much pleased with the display on the cottagers’ 
table, that he left a sovereign, to be given to them in additional prizes at the 
September meeting. (Jdid., July 2.) 

NorTHAMPTONSHIRE. — Northampton Horticultural Society. April22. Some 
superb forced rhubarb, measuring between 3 ft. and 4 ft. in length, was much 
admired, as were some excellent Black Prince and white Frontignac grapes, 
from C. Hill, Esq.; strawberries, a fine Azalea indica alba, and flowers of 
several kinds, from Edward Bouverie, Esq.; and some extraordinarily fine 
mignonette, from Mrs. Kerr. The auriculas and hyacinths were excellent, 
and, with many other fine specimens of plants, were chiefly contributed by 
Mr. Atkins, who won eighteen prizes. A new regulation of the Society, by 
which no person is allowed above one prize in each class, prevented many of 
the prizes being awarded, the judges, in several cases, not considering the 
specimens of sufficient merit. (Northampton Mercury, April 26.) 

Northamptonshire United Horticultural Society. — June 8. Lord South- 
ampton was the most successful competitor in the ornamental plants gene- 
rally; and Mr. Atkins in the ranunculuses, pinks, and roses. There were 
some fine Providence pines, and some peaches and nectarines, from Earl 
Spencer’s. The cottagers’ table was well supplied: nine prizes were dis- 


Northumberland, Somersetshire. 599 


tributed, of which J. Webb gained three. (Northampton and Leamington Free 
Press, June 12.) 

July 25. Mr. J. Martin’s carnations and picotees were universally admired, 
and obtained numerous prizes. Some of his seedlings were particularly beau- 
tiful; and it was remarked, that several of the flowers that gained prizes for 
other competitors had been originally raised by him. Lord Southampton and 
Mr. Atkins were, as usual, very successful; and, out of eleven cottagers’ 
prizes, J. Webb again gained three. (Jdid., August 2.) 

NorRTHUMBERLAND. — Botanical and Horticultural Society of Newcastle. 
March 7. The fruits kept from the last year were excellent, and obtained 
many prizes; as did dishes of asparagus, early potatoes, cabbages, &c. Mr. 
Kelly received a bronze medal for a beautiful bouquet. (Newcastle Courant, 
March 15.) 

May. The display of flowers was. unusually splendid. The exhibition of 
plants, though not numerically great, contained many beautiful specimens. 
The best hyacinths were those shown by Mr. W. Kelly. (Tdid., May.) 

June 6. Prizes were given for peas and potatoes grown in the open air. 
Tulips were in abundance. The newly introduced prize for the best specimen 
of the orange tree in fruit gave great satisfaction ; for, independently of the 
various other rich specimens, that which obtained the prize, one from the 
garden of Mr. Anderson, Little Benton, was truly magnificent. The exotics, 
and numerous bouquets of flowers, were not to be surpassed; and the pine- 
apples and grapes were excellent. (Jdid., June 14.) 

July 4. Mr. T. Watson, gardener to J. Kirsopp, Esq., exhibited a remark- 
ably fine dish of strawberries. Other fruit was shown and admired; but the 
most interesting prize was that of the sum of three guineas to the gardener 
who would produce the best testimonials of his abilities, and of the greatest 
length of servitude in one family; and this was awarded to Mr. James Fen- 
wick, gardener to Matt. Anderson, Esq., Jesmond House, he having been 
eighteen years gardener in that family. (Jdrd., July 12.) 

August 29. This was the anniversary meeting of the Botanical and Hor- 
ticultural Societies of the counties of Durham, Northumberland, and New- 
castle. A number of prizes were awarded, one of which was for a Treatise 
on the Cultivation of the Vine; after which the company dined. Before part- 
ing, the chairman, addressing the meeting, observed, that the Society had been 
of the greatest benefit not only to the gardeners themselves, but to the com- 
munity at large; as it was impossible to look into our green-market and fruit- 
shops without observing the rapid advancement which had taken place in the 
culture both of fruit and vegetables, which, he observed, could now be had at 
almost every season of the year in the greatest variety, and of the very finest 
descriptions and quality. (Jdid., Sept.) 

Oct. 31. This exhibition was principally for fruit and culinary vegetables. 
Some very fine specimens were exhibited of the former, among which, per- 
haps, the most interesting were two seedling pine-apples, raised by Mr. Scott, 
gardener to E. Chorlton, Esq., at Sandhoe. The parent fruit (the Enville) 
was from seed saved inthe autumn of 1830. The smaller of these two pines, 
when cut, was declared by the judges to be of the most exquisite flavour. 
There were likewise exhibited, gratuitously, a very fine dish of plums, consist- 
ing of Coe’s and Wilmot’s late red plums, both im fine preservation, from the 
garden of Mrs, Bewicke of Close House. The prize dish of apples, exhibited 
by Mr. Dale, was allowed to be the most superb one ever exhibited in the 
rooms of the Society: it contained no less than thirty varieties, all in the 
greatest perfection. (Newcastle Courant, Nov. 8.) 

SomMERSETSHIRE. — Glastonbury Horticultural Society. We have received 
the rules and regulations of this Society ; but have not been favoured with any 
account of its meetings. 

Silwood Horticultural Society, held at Frome.— May 13. The display of 
fruit, flowers, and vegetables was of the first order. The tulips and ranuncu- 
luses of Mr. Culyerhouse. were particularly admired. Some of the latter 

UU 2 


600 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


measured 4in. over. There were twelve prizes awarded to cottagers, for 
cabbages, potatoes, and nosegays. (Keene’s Bath Journal, May 19.) 

July 18. The carnations were very fine. The principal prizes for currants 
and gooseberries were gained by the Earl of Cork. Amelia Coles was the 
most successful of the cottagers. (Bath Herald, July 26.) 

Bath Royal Horticultural and Floral Society.— May 14. The exhibition 
was allowed, by competent judges, to be exceedingly fine, both as to extent 
and the beauty and rarity of the specimens; and it was particularly interesting 
as being the first held by the Society. In the centre of the great room was a 
grand pyramidal flower-stage, of several tiers, loaded on every side with rare 
exotics and superb specimens, the whole surmounted with a palm tree in full 
“ plumage,” the term most applicable to its feathery growth. Classified spe- 
cimens of fruits and flowers were also arranged in great profusion around the 
sides of the room, which was elegantly festooned and ornamented with devices 
in flowers complimentary to the royal patronage with which the Society is 
honoured. The numbers assembled having far exceeded all previous cal- 
culation, some little difficulty was experienced in going through the room; 
nearly 2000 persons being present. Among the plants deserving of particular 
notice appeared a beautiful orange tree, in full bearing, sent by G. Yeeles, Esq., 
and another by Lady Acland; and a superb Schizanthus pinnatus, by Miss 
Bayly. Among the fruits were a magnificent fig tree, in full bearing, sent by the 
Rev. Dr. Hale; and vines, in pots, and in full bearing, by several persons whose 
names we could not learn. ‘The elegant collection of plants and flowers ex- 
hibited by Mr. Maule of Stapleton, Mr. Miller of Durdham Down, Mr. Salter, 
Mr. Bartlett, and Mr. Collens, attracted general admiration. To those gentle- — 
men some praise is due for their indefatigable exertions in adding to the 
beauty of the exhibition. An interesting feature of the exhibition consisted 
of nearly 200 specimens of British plants, collected from the neighbourhood 
of Bath, and arranged in classes according to the Linnzan system, by Mr. 
James Kitley, gardener, Pulteney Road. (Jéid., May 17.) 

June 24. To obviate the inconvenience complained of from the excessive 
crowd at the last meeting, on this occasion, the committee had erected a 
noble marquee, 60 ft. by 30 ft., and of proportionate height. Down the centre 
of this was erected an immense flower-stage, with ascending tiers of shelves, 
on the lower of which were placed the smaller and more delicate plants, which 
required closer and more minute inspection in order to appreciate their beauty, 
while the larger and more showy occupied the upper. On the topmost range 
were two noble specimens of the Cycas species, placed at each end, one 
belonging to G. Yeeles, Esq., and the other to S. Barrow, Esq.; and, in the 
centre, a magnificent Musa paradisiaca, belonging to Mrs. Newby, the gigantic 
and freshly vivid foliage of which formed a beautiful contrast with the bright 
and intensely glowing hues which surrounded it on every side. The effect of 
this immense “ double bank” of flowers, of every imaginable tint, as seen from 
either end, was strikingly beautiful. Spacious, however, as was the accommo- 
dation for the display and view of this magnificent collection, the throng was 
so dense, and apparently immovable, that a close inspection was denied to a 
very considerable portion of the company, and hundreds of visiters left with- 
out the possibility of inspecting those plants, fruits, and flowers to which the 
first prizes were awarded. In addition to the specimens exhibited for prizes, 
there were, on the present occasion, an immense number of plants, flowers, 
and fruits, sent by ladies and gentlemen in the city and neighbourhood, to add 
attraction to the show. Among these, Messrs. Maule, Miller, and Lee of 
Bristol sent largely, both of fruits and flowers. Mr. Miller also sent three 
fine pines to the fruit room, merely to decorate the stand. The fruit was 
arranged in the great room of the hotel, on a large oblong stand, with ascend- 
ing ranges of shelves, similar to those in the marquee. Among the cottagers’ 
prizes was a classified collection of botanical specimens ticketed and arranged 
by Mr. Kitley. A model for heating a conservatory from the kitchen boiler 
was exhibited by Mr. S. King. Among the decorations was a bird of paras 


Suffolk, Surrey. 601 


dise, formed entirely of heartseases. Twelve cottagers’ prizes were dis- 
tributed, three of which were gained by Mr. Morgan. (Jdid., June 28.) 

July 23. An excellent exhibition, but not so well attended as its pre- 
decessors. Among the specimens sent for show, but not for competition, 
were a variety of excellent green-house plants, sent by G. Yeeles, Esq., and 
about 200 different plants, many of them extremely fine, by Mr. Salter, whose 
georginas and cut flowers attracted much deserved attention, as did his orange 
trees in full fruit. Messrs. Bartlett and Chilcott contributed about 200 plants, 
which were also very excellent and much admired; Miss Bayly, a great num- 
ber; General Loveday sent about fifty ; Newby, Esq., from thirty to 
forty plants; and Mr. Maule of Bristol, a magnificent and varied collection. 
In the fruit tent was a splendid peach tree, exhibited by Dr. Hale, in a pot, 
aod bearing several dozens of ripe fruit. Eight large bunches of Hamburgh 
grapes on one small branch, not above 2 ft. long, sent by the same gentleman, 
were also much admired. A cherry tree, grafted on a laurel, belonging to 
Mr. Horatio Davis, attracted curiosity. The exhibition for the cottagers’ 
prizes was extremely good. The cabbages, potatoes, beans, &c., were far 
superior to any other productions of the same kind in the show. Mr. Kitley 
again exhibited a collection of botanical specimens. (Jdid., July 26.) 

Carnation, Picotee, and Gooseberry Feast, Holloway | Bath]. — July 22. Mr. 
Pond and Mr. Wilcox were the most successful competitors for the prizes. 
( Lbid.) 

Taunton Horticultural Exhibition. — May 16. Tulips, tender exotic plants, 
and vegetables formed the principal of the articles exhibited by the gentlemen 
in the neighbourhood. Among the nurserymen’s prizes were several for 
hardy shrubs. (Taunton Courier, May 21.) 

SuFFoLk.— Bury Horticultural Society. April 22. The show of flowers, 
which was very good, was enriched by valuable specimens from the conserv- 
atories of Lord Calthorpe and the Rev. G. R. Leathes. The apples were in 
excellent preservation for the season; the nonpareils of the Rev. Mr. Ward 
of Haughley, as well as those to which the prizes were awarded, were exceed- 
ingly fine. The vegetables surpassed any exhibition we have before witnessed. 
Amongst them were some broccoli from the garden of J. H. Powell, Esq., at 
Hengrave, which weighed upwards of 7 lb. each, cut close to the flower, and 
without aleaf. But the most gratifying part of the show was on the cottagers’ 
tables, which were crowded with vegetables of the finest quality. A spirit of 
emulation appears to be spreading among the cottagers of the neighbourhood, 
which is the best fruit that the institution can produce, and which, we hope, 
will meet with its just reward from the Society. (Jdid., April 30.) [We 
understand that it is proposed to add a zoological collection to the botanical 
one in the Bury Botanic Garden.] 

Surrey. — The Frimley ond Farnborough Agricultural, Horticultural, and 
Labourers’ Friend Society. July %. This Society held their first show under 
the fine grove of oaks at Frimley Green; and the friends of the Society 
were highly gratified by this first attempt. Twenty-four cottagers received 
rewards, for the exhibition of useful vegetables, fruit and flowers, and manu- 
factures, varying from 20s. to 2s.; also for the culture of their gardens, and the 
cleanliness of their houses and families. One individual, James Cook, work- 
ing in a gravel pit for the parish of Farnborough, obtained seven distinct 
prizes ; yet there were forty other prizes offered, and not contested. We are 
sorry to learn that two farmers threatened to discharge their men if they 
attended, or sent anything to, the show; and some of the men returned their 
tickets of admission to the benefits of the Society, in fear of receiving their 
discharge if they made use of them. Among the honorary exhibiters, we 
observed Mr. Waterer, nurseryman, Bagshot ; Mr. Smith of Farnborough; 
Mr. Gibbs, seedsman, of Piccadilly, who exhibited his specimens of agricultural 
seeds; Mr. Mathews, the rural decorator, of Frimley; Mr. Lance, the secre- 
tary, who displayed his improvements Here culture, and in raising potatoes 

uU $ 


602 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


from seeds; and his daughters, who exhibited a complete arrangement of 
flowers, according to the system of Linnzeus, and also bouquets of the wild 
flowers and grasses of the district. 

Sussex. — Newick Horticultural Meeting. June 26. The arrangements 
were so excellent, that every one was admitted without the least inconvenience 
or pressure. Among numerous articles deserving attention, we may mention 
those displayed in the nurserymen’s booth as particularly striking. Mr. Ca- 
meron had a very fine collection of plants in pots, and a magnificent bouquet ; 
Mr. Hooker of Brenchly, a collection of new and choice roses; Mr. Pierce, 
Piltdown, exhibited some fine plants in pots, and an extensive assortment of 
gooseberries, which, for size and flavour, could, we think, scarcely be surpassed. 
The carnations and picotees of Mr. Newman of Lewes (certainly one of the 
most skilful and successful cultivators of this class of flowers) excited the 
admiration of every one; and he obtained extra prizes. Mr. Mitchell had a 
splendid collection of plants ; and, in the list of prizes, it will.be seen that he 
obtained eleven out of the thirteen premiums which were offered for nursery- 
men’s productions: among the novelties he exhibited we must not omit the 
Fuchsva longiflora, also a new species of Gnaphalium, which was greatly 
admired, and obtained the silver medal as the best green-house plant in flower. 
The unrivalled collection of heartseases of Messrs. Allen and Rogers, Pim- 
lico, deservedly attracted attention ; as did also their fine collection of stocks, 
lupines, and other new and beautiful annuals and perennials. To complete the 
general effect of the exhibition, Mr. Wood’s very extensive and choice col- 
lection of new and splendid roses, calceolarias, alstreemerias, and green-house 
plants in pots, occupied the remainder of the booth, and, from their novelty 
and great beauty, often impeded the progress of the spectators. Mr. Read, 
the Earl of Abergavenny’s gardener, and Mr. Stephens, gardener to Sir G. 
Shiffner, Bart., obtained prizes for hearteases and stocks. Mr. Stephens’s 
collection of the latter, consisting of sixty distinct varieties, was much ad- 
mired. It would take too much space to particularise the fruit; it will be 
sufficient to-say, that there was above 3cwt. A new variety of raspberry, the 
Turkish turban, was shown by Mr. Wood of Maresfield. The cottagers’ 
table presented a gratifying spectacle, many of the fruits and vegetables being 
of the finest description. (Zhe Sussex Advertiser, June 30.) 

Chichester. — Cultivation of the Grape. It is with much pleasure that we 
have learned the formation and opening of a Society in this city for encourag- 
ing the growth of the grape vine on open walls. Considerable doubt has 
existed, fostered, indeed, by prejudice, whether Hamburgh and other grapes, 
usually grown under glass, could be ripened on the open walls; and many 
experiments have been tried, in the neighbourhood of this city, with a view to 
ascertain how far skill and care in the pruning and cultivation would operate 
to remove the doubt, and, by proofs, overcome the prejudice. These ex- 
periments have succeeded fully. Outdoor Hamburgh grapes, equal, in many 
respects, ‘to these produced in houses, in flavour, and in size of berry and 
bunch, were shown for prizes on Oct. 13. Mr. C. Hoare of Siddlesham, about 
three miles from this city, was one of the first and most successful cultivators. 
Chiefly through his exertions a society for the encouragement of the growth 
of the vine on open walls has been formed under circumstances the most flat- 
tering. This Society held its first annual meeting on Monday last, when the 
display of grapes was beyond measure fine, exceeding the utmost anticipation 
which had been formed. Here were ten or twelve dishes of Hamburgh grapes, 
very many of the berries of which averaged from 31 in. to 34 in. in circumfer- 
ence, and were perfectly ripe. A prize of two sovereigns, for the finest dish of 
black grapes, was gained by Mr. Lower of Siddlesham; the second, by Mr. 
Rogers, plumber, of Chichester; both Hamburgh. The first prize for white 
grapes, by Mr. Gillham of Siddlesham; and the second, by Mr. Cousens of 
Pangmere; both muscadine. A prize of two sovereigns for two bottles of 
the very best home-made wine, from outdoor grapes, by W. C. Newland, Esq. ; 
and the second, by Mr. Halls, bricklayer. Between sixty and seventy persons 


Sussex, Warwickshire. 603 


dined together, after the show, at the Anchor, and partook of the fruit, which 
exceeded a hundred weight. (Brighton Herald, Oct. 18.) 

The Pink Show of the Lewes and Kast Sussex Horticultural Society was ad- 
vertised to take place on Aug. 2.; but no particulars have reached us. 

The Brighton and Sussex Horticultural Exhibition was advertised for the 
same day. (J6id.) 

Warwicksuire. — Warwickshire Botanical and Horticultural Society. 
April 16. The stove and green-house plants were very beautiful, and espe- 
cially those shown by Mr. Willmore, many of which were rare. Messrs. 
Pope and Sons showed a remarkably fine collection of herbaceous plants, and 
of exotic plants in pots. Tubers of the O’xalis crenata, and roots of the 
Stachys palistris were exhibited as new culinary vegetables. Some of the 
other culinary vegetables were very fine, particularly some potatoes grown by 
Mrs. Woolley, and a cabbage by Mr. Tyndall, both of which obtained silver 
medals. We notice that the names of the plants in the printed list are 
remarkably well spelt. (Aris’s Birmingham Gazette, April 21.) 

Warwickshire Floral and Horticultural Society. — April 17. This interesting 
Society commenced its exhibitions for the season, under the most favourable 
auspices. The company present was numerous and highly respectable. The 
number and beauty of the flowers exhibited surpassed the most sanguine 
expectations ; nor is it possible sufficiently to praise the spirit with which the 
supporters of this Society came forward with their specimens, not only for 
competition, but for the decoration of the rooms. The most choice plants 
were taken from the stoves and conservatories, and conveyed to the exhibition 
through an atmosphere nearly at the freezing point. The number and beauty of 
the plants shown at this early season of the year excited universal admiration. 
A curious specimen of apples was sent by Mr. I. Hill, which exhibited the 
singular appearance of the fruit of the last and the newly-expanded blossom 
of the present year, on the same branch, which was cut from the tree on the 
14th of the present month. The cottagers’ stage displayed many very credit- 
able productions ; and upwards of twenty prizes were awarded to this class of 
competitors. 

May 15. The second exhibition of the season was graced by the presence 
of a numerous assemblage of respectability and fashion, including several noble 
and distinguished families of the neighbourhood, who appeared to be highly 

ratified with the beautiful and interesting display. We have seldom seen a 
collection of tulips which, for beauty, at all equalled those exhibited on this 
occasion. The show of pelargoniums was exceedingly numerous, and splendid 
beyond all precedent. ‘Tulips and pelargoniums being the leading objects of 
this exhibition, the stove and green-house plants were rather limited in num- 
ber, but choice and beautiful. The display of fruits and vegetables, and the 
cottagers’ stand, in the lower room, were most gratifying; the tables being 
literally loaded with specimens of the finest imaginable description. The most 
successful exhibiters were Messrs. Pope and Sons, Mr. Kendall, John Will- 
more, Esq., and Mr. Bates, in the floral department; and Sir C. Throck- 
morton (Mr. Sadler, gardener), Mr. Kendall, Mr. W. Baker, and Dr. John- 
stone (Mr. Tolley, gardener), in vegetables. The grapes from Mrs. Taylor, 
Moseley Hall, were exceedingly fine; and the lemon and orange trees, and 
other specimens of fruit, were much admired. Among many remarkable pro- 
ductions exhibited, we particularly noticed the followmg:— Hibiscus (nova 
sp.), a species of dwarly growth and peculiarly proliferous habits; Psoralea 
aphylla, rarely seen so finely in bloom; Wachendérfza paniculata, with a 
remarkably beautiful spike of flowers ; Sievérsia Péckii, anew species ; a seed- 
ling rhododendron of Mr. J. Moores, worthy a place in every American de- 
partment; Petznia Willmoredna, a variety between nyctaginiflora and pheenicea, 
raised by J. Willmore, Esq., attaining the height of 7 ft., and exhibiting 700 
blossoms, the petals of a fine marbled pink colour, with a reticulated tube ; 
azaleas (several varieties) of great beauty, by Messrs. Pope and Sons. A 

UU 4& 


604 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


collection of pansies, with which Mr. Brown of Slough favoured the Society, 
were very fine, many of them new and interesting varieties. 

July 3. The collections of pinks exhibited were numerous and exceed- 
ingly choice. Mr. Kendall, as usual, took the lead in these as well as in the 
ranunculuses. These interesting and beautiful flowers were few in number, and 
by no means fine. We have remarked that the cultivators of ranunculuses, in 
this neighbourhood, are anything but successful in producing a fine bloom ; 
_ this, we understood, is to be attributed principally to spring planting being 
usually adopted in preference to autumnal. ‘The chief difficulty, in manage- 
ment by the autumnal method, is in protecting them from excessive wet and 
frost, in the months of November and December. When they are well esta- 
blished, a very little shelter is sufficient for them; but, in this case, the time of 
exhibiting must be at the May, and not the June, meeting. We, however, 
were gratified by seeing a few specimens sent by Mr. Costor, near Oxford, 
who has succeeded in impregnating some robust semidouble varieties with 
the pollen of the old and choicer varieties, that are worn out. The stove and 
green-house plants were beautiful beyond all expectation ; but a collection of 
seventy-five varieties of heaths, chiefly hybrids, from the collection of J. Will- 
more, Esq., exhibited at once the spirit and taste of the proprietor, and the 
talent of his gardener, J. Williams. The roses, owing principally to the late 
high winds, were neither so numerous nor so fine as on former occasions ; but 
there were some very fine specimens from Mr. Waddell’s collection, as well 
as from J. Gough, Esq., of Perry Bar, the Earl of Bradford, and Mr. Yates 
of Bordesley. Messrs. Pope and Sons, from the very spirited manner in 
which they came forward to support the Society, most deservedly stood fore- 
most upon the list of successful competitors; they having gained more honours 
than any other exhibiters. The remaining prizes were distributed among a 
great number of persons, showing, most satisfactorily, that the influence of 
this Society is spreading far and wide. The display of fruits and vegetables, 
in the lower room, was exceedingly imposing. The melons from Mrs. Taylor, 
Moseley Hall, and the grapes from Malvern Hall, could not be surpassed, at 
this time of the year, at any exhibition in the kingdom. Peaches, nectarines, 
strawberries, cherries, &c., nothing could exceed, especially the two former, 
from Lady Ward of Himley Hall, who also exhibited an orange tree (the 
myrtifolia) in the most beautiful state of perfection imaginable. But the most 
gratifying feature in the exhibition was the positive triumph of labour, per- 
severance, and skill, over soil and situation ; the productions of the neighbour- 
hood of Birmingham having, in nearly all instances, surpassed the produce of 
the Vale of Evesham. This werecordas no ordinary occurrence in the annals 
of the Society. The cottagers’ stand was filled in every way the Society 
could wish. The fruits, fowers, and vegetables vied with those of the higher 
classes of contributors; and all parties seemed highly gratified and delighted. 

Sept. 18. The attendance at these interesting exhibitions has increased to 
that degree that the schoolrooms at Bordesley, in which part of the borough 
the Society originated, and to which it legitimately belongs, have long been 
found too small for the accommodation of visiters and an advantageous dis- 
play of the Society’s horticultural and floral productions ; but we are sorry 
to say, that, on this occasion, want of room was still experienced, and that, in 
consequence, many specimens of iruits and flowers were obliged to be placed 
under the tables, on the floor of the room. The exhibition of georginas was 
very splendid; Mr. Bourne of Ashted sent a beautiful collection, but it was 
too late for exhibition. J. Woolley, Esq., Mr. Rushton, and Mr. Cowdry, 
were among the successful competitors. The unwearied friend of the Society, 
Mr. Kendall, exhibited a design which formed the segment of a circle, with its 
base line, on which was inscribed “ Warwickshire Floral Society,” all in 
georginas ; the whole being surmounted by a crown and W. R. More than 
1000 blooms were used for this design, which were placed on the front of 
the orchestra, and nearly occupied the whole width, adding much to the 
beauty of the arrangements. A design by Mr. Cowdry, of the figure of a 


Wiltshire, Worcestershire. 605 


Harlequin, formed in georginas, standing under an arch of flowers, attracted 
much attention, from its novelty. The plants exhibited, as might be expected 
at this season of the year, were not numerous; but many good specimens 
were among the number. (Jdid., Sept. 25.) 

Oct. 15. and 16. The show, considering the advanced state of the season, 
was of a very superior description. The specimens exhibited were arranged 
upon three large tables extending along the entire area, which afforded ample 
room for the most striking and effective display. Two of the tables were 
decorated with a fine collection of valuable plants and a variety of georginas ; 
the third was occupied with a profusion of choice fruits. The vegetables 
were placed around upon benches, and were numerous and of excellent qua- 
lity. Upon no former occasions has there been so much exertion made by 
exhibiters to vie with each other in extent and variety of specimens produced, 
and attended with such complete success; for at this season of the year but 
few house plants are in fiower, and those sent incur the risk of being injured 
from the uncertainty of the weather. John Willmore, Esq., obtained a silver 
medal for the best collection of well-flowered house plants. A splendid 
epiphyte, Cattléya labiata, from Lord Grey of Groby, attracted general admir- 
ation. A fine-flowered specimen of Limnécharis Humbdldtz, in a pan of 
water, was sent by Messrs. John Pope and sons, who have at various exhibi- 
tions shown several fine specimens of aquatics, in the management of which 
they greatly excel. The group of flowers from Mrs. Woolley, and a pole 
decorated with branches of apples, drew general notice. Among the culinary 
vegetables from the Society’s gardens were specimens of Stachys paldstris and 
Couve tronchuda; some fruit of Passiflora edulis, were also exhibited. A good 
specimen of New Providence pine was exhibited by Mr. John Horton; and six 
sorts of seedling apples by James Taylor, Esq., two of which appear likely to 
be a great acquisition to the dessert apples. Many very beautiful stove and 
green-house plants were exhibited ;_ principally by John Willmore, Esq., and 
Messrs. J. Pope and Sons. (Aris’s Birmingham Gazette, Oct. 20.) 

Wixrtsuire. — Wilts Horticultural Society. June 20. This is an annual 
exhibition. Some fine specimens were shown, and the company was very 
numerous. (Bath Herald, June 28.) 

WorcersTERSHIRE. — Worcestershire Horticultural Society. The season has 
proved so unfavourable to the beautiful tribe of auriculas, that but few of that 
class were exhibited, many growers having lost some of the finest of their 
plants. We were pleased to notice that, by a new regulation of the Society, 
certain prizes are set apart to be contended for by nurserymen only. This 
brought forth some choice specimens, from Mr. Smith and Mr. Tapp, of both 
rare and beautiful plants. (Worcester Herald, April 26.) : 

Vale of Evesham Horticultural and Floral Society. — April 17. This show 
was chiefly remarkable for its auriculas and polyanthuses. By a curious 
coincidence, Stretch’s Alexander won the first prize for the auriculas, and 
Pearson’s Alexander the first prize for the polyanthuses ; so that Alexander 
was truly a “ conquering hero.”” The hyacinths were also very fine, par- 
ticularly those shown by Mr. Hodges. (Id:d.) 

May 15. This show “ was not so numerously attended as formerly, pro- 
bably in consequence of a resolution, which the committee thought it expedient 
to make at the last annual meeting, that no subscriber should ittroduce more 
than one friend, and all other persons pay 1s. for admittance. We regret ex- 
ceedingly that the funds of the Society should have rendered such a resolution 
necessary; and we hope that those ladies and gentlemen who are in arrear to 
the Society will cause the amount to be immediately paid, and continue their 
patronage.” The prizes were principally for tulips and anemones. (Wor- 
cester Journal, May 22.) 4 

July 15. One of the most beautiful ornaments in the room was a lofty 
garland of flowers, arranged in the form of a vase surmounted by an. imperial 
crown, sent by Mr. Tapp. There was a brilliant display of carnations and 
georginas, and some fine gooseberries. (Ibid., July 14.) 


606 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


YorxksuireE.— Doncaster Horticultural Society. April 15. The exhibition 
of vegetables was excellent ; and among them were some tubers of the O’xalis 
crenata, for which a prize was given. The onions and carrots, preserved from 
the last year, were excellent. There were but few green-house or stove 
plants, and only a few hardy azaleas. Mr. Appleby exhibited by far the 
greatest number, and the most beautiful varieties, of plants. (Doncaster, 

Nottingham, and Lincoln Gazette, April 18.) 

May 13. The show of plants, flowers, fruit, and vegetables was excellent. 
The room, which was crowded, was very tastefully decorated; and several 
remarkably fine portions of cut pink thorns, &c., sent by Lady Cooke of 
Wheatley, had a very pleasing effect. The show of pelargoniums, azaleas, and 
calceolarias was remarkably striking ; as well as the exotic and hardy bouquets, 
cut flowers, and the collection of British plants, embracing 156 named species. 
The exhibition of fruit presented some very luxuriant specimens of cut oranges, 
from the gardens of P. Davies Cooke, Esq., of Owston. The show of vege- 
tables, too, was extremely good; and, in point of size, much larger than 
(considering the character of the season) might have been anticipated. Those 
from the market-gardens of Mr. Milan of Doncaster excited much and 
deserved admiration, as evincing, in the cultivation, the utmost degree of 
skill and attention. There were some fine prizes for the tulips given, for 
which Mr. Fearn, Mr. Short, and Mr. Thorpe were the most successful com- 
petitors. (Jbid., May 16.) 

July 23. The most striking feature in this exhibition was the splendid 
show of yuccas, belonging to Messrs. Crowder of the Botanic Nursery opposite 
Christ Church: they met with universal admiration. The pelargoniums of 
Mrs. Walker of Wilsic attracted deserved attention; as did also the calceo- 
Jarias and Fichsia of Mr. Appleby; and the Mimulus of Mr. J. L. Crowther 
of Bennetthorpe. The show of georginas, too, at this early season, was exten- 
sive and strikingly beautiful. The bouquets of Mr. Stone and Mr. Hopkinson, 
presenting almost every variety of tint, were much admired. The fruits were 
all excellent. Mr. Mearns (one of the judges), gardener to His Grace the 
Duke of Portland, exhibited some fine specimens of grapes, the result of his 
method of coiling vines (one of which was shown, loaded with a crop of fruit) ; 
a method which has been attended with the highest success, and which is 
worthy of general adoption. (See Mr. Mearns’s account of his practice in 
p- 138.) The vegetables, too, were remarkably good ; particularly rhubarb, 
cucumbers, and celery. (Jbid., July 25.) 

Oct. 6. As this was the last, so it was by far the best, show of the season. 

The show of fruit and vegetables was extremely fine. Some of the spe- 
cimens were astonishingly large: evincing, in the most satisfactory manner, 
how much can be attained by care and skill in cultivation. The show of 
georginas, staged next the wall on the right from the entrance, was remarkably 
splendid, and, in point of perfection and brilliancy of colour, perhaps un- 
equalled: from the palest white, the deepest crimson, the flaming red, and the 
modest rose, to almost the perfectly black ; every shade, in short, except blue. 
The show of plants, arranged on the opposite side of the room, was far more 
numerous than (considering the lateness of the season) might have been 
expected. The eye of the spectator was attracted to the lower end of the 
room, which was ornamented by a representation of the corporation arms, 
formed of various coloured georginas ; surmounted by a star, and containing, 
on each side, the letters W. R., also formed of georginas, in different colours. 
The latter had a very gratifying effect; but the arms were on too small a 
scale, too diminutive to come within the reach of general admiration. A 
pyramid of georginas, however, which occupied one end of the centre table, 
was extremely beautiful. The colours of the respective flowers presented no 
confusion; and the effect of the whole was very striking. A fleur-de-lis, too, 
at the other end of the table, formed of various flowers, excited much admir- 
ation. A self-acting fountain [we should be glad of an account of it, with a 
sketch], invented and manufactured by Mr. Hopkinson, tinner and brazier 


Yorkshire. 607 


Scot Lane, and placed among the plants at the end of the room, was much 
admired. The room, at one period, was exceedingly crowded. (Ibid., Oct. 13.) 

Gainsborough Horticultural Society.— May 7. The fruits, flowers, and vege- 
tables gave great satisfaction; and the Society promises to produce the most 
beneficial consequences, by promoting emulation in the production of the 
useful and ornamental. Sir R. Sheffield, Mrs. Sanders, H. B. Hickman, Esq., 
and Mr. King appear to have been the most successful competitors. (Jérd., 
May 16.) 

Beverley Floral and Horticultural Society. — Sept. 3. The principal room 
was devoted to the exhibition of the productions of the flower-garden. In the 
centre of this apartment, in a splendid vase elevated upon a pedestal, stood a 
beautiful orange tree, bearing fruit, from the green-house of R. Bethell, Esq. 
M.P. Immediately adjacent to this were four tables covered with exotics and 
herbaceous plants; among which was an extremely fine Potentilla Hopwoodi- 
ana, from the conservatory of R. F. Shaw, Esq. At the upper extremity of 
the room, where was the official place appropriated to the president, a tasteful 
arbour was erected, consisting of arches, supported by four columns of cast 
iron, the work ef [our correspondent] Mr. Crosskill, iron-founder, Beverley ; 
and by him most handsomely presented to the Society. From this were sus- 
pended rich and glowing festoons of georginas and China asters, edged and 
contrasted with ivy and fuchsia. Around the columns, flowers of yaried hue 
were entwined; and at the summit shone the word “ Horticulture,’ formed 
of georginas and China asters, each letter being composed of flowers of uni- 
form colour. The light and elegant appearance of this appropriate embellish- 
ment elicited general admiration. On each side of the president’s seat stood 
a fine specimen of the coffee tree, in bearing, sent by Henry Ellison, Esq. ; 
and close adjoining was a splendid fuchsia. Upon the tables we observed a 
tripod formed of China asters, which had a very good effect. On the left-hand 
side of the room was a stage containing a brilliant assortment of georginas, from 
the garden of the Rev. E. W. Stillingfleet of Hotham. Near this was a very 
beautiful bouquet of rare exotic plants, sent by H. Burton, Esq. M.P. A tray of 
choice flowers was kindly furnished by Mrs. John Grimston of Neswick. On 
the other side was a very large bouquet of shrubs and flowers, sent by B. 
Haworth, Esq. It consisted of 135 species, exclusive of 20 varieties of geor- 
ginas, at present in flower at Rowlston, within half a mile of the sea. A spe- 
cimen of maize was near this, grown in the open air in Mr. Haworth’s garden. 
Some Indian corn is now growing on land of Mr. Haworth’s at Hornsea, 
occupied exclusively in spade cultivation. We must not omit to notice 
several new flower-baskets, manufactured of wire by Mr. Crosskill, which had 
an extremely neat and pretty appearance; and a pair of ebony flower-stands, 
mounted with ivory, manufactured by Mr. Nutchey of London. A curious 
description of marine fungus, called Neptune’s Cup, sent by the Rev. F. Best 
of South Dalton, occupied the centre of the table at the lower extremity of 
the principal room. (Hull Advertiser, Sept. 5.) ania 

[H. Reynard, Esq., the president, made some observations on the georgina, © 
which, he said, ought to be still called dahlia. “The genus was named Dahla 
in honour of Professor Dahl, a Swedish botanist. Some objections were at first 
made to this name, under an erroneous impression that it had already been 
appropriated to another genus ; anda farther objection was taken to it from the 
similarity of its sound to Dalea, a genus of leguminous plants so named after 
our countryman Dr. Dale. The first of these objections induced Professor 
Willdenow, in his Species Plantarum, to apply to these plants a new name; 
that of Georgina, after Georgi, an eminent Russian traveller and botanist. In 
this he was followed by M. Decandolle: but the original name seems to be 
fully established ; and is retained in the new edition of the Hortus Kewensis, 
as well as by the botanists [gardeners] of France.” It is certainly much to be 
regretted that a plant in such general cultivation as that alluded to should 
pass under two different names; but there is no other mode of avoiding cases 
of this kind than by adhering to the principles and rules laid down by bota- 
nists. The objections made to the name Dahlia were made under a sup- 


608 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


posed discovery of the fact, that the name Georgina had been previously 
applied to the same family of plants: see VII. 716.; and because the laws of 
botanical nomenclature enjoin the employment of any name first applied, to 
the exclusion of all others, except where new genera are formed out of old 
ones. Our authority for adopting the name Georgina was Mr. Sweet; but, 
since the above was in type, Mr. David Don has proved to us that the name 
Dahlia was applied one year before that of Georgina, and that therefore, 
although the latter name has been adopted in the Dictionnaire @ Histoire Natu- 
relle, the former ought to be retained. The name Dahlia, therefore, shall 
in future be used by us, instead of that of Georgina; and we thank Mr. 
Reynard for leading us to reexamine the subject.] 

West Riding Horticultural Society. — Sept. 10. Over the chair was a grand 
arch of flowers, from the centre of which was suspended an elegant star of 
georginas; and this was surrounded by festoons of the same ornamental 
flower. Along the sides of the room, against the wali, were festoons of 
georginas of every hue; which, together with the handsome bouquets at each 
end of the platform, gave to the whole a pleasing scenic effect. These orna- 
ments were furnished by one of the best friends and supporters the Society 
has; who spares neither pains nor expense to render these useful exhibitions 
popular. We allude to Mr. Witham Barratt, nurseryman, of Wakefield, the 
proprietor of the public botanical gardens at this place; who also sent to the 
meeting some very fine plants, which we regret not to have room to enu- 
merate. There were many other liberal contributors, whose names want of 
space also compels us to omit. (York Courant, Sept. 11.) 

North Riding Horticultural and Floricultural Society. —Sept. 12. We have 
seldom witnessed a finer display of fruits, vegetables, and flowers. Upwards of 
forty dishes of grapes were exhibited, all in the highest state of perfection ; 
and among the plants were several very rare specimens from the hot-houses of 
the Earl of Tyrconnel at Kiplin. Several curious stove plants were also’ 
exhibited ; and, among the rest, a very magnificent coffee tree, loaded with 
fruit, from the hot-house of John Hutton, Esq., of Sober Hill, which attracted 
universal attention. The display of georginas was brilliant in the extreme, 
more than four hundred of fourteen different classes being ticketed for com- 
petition: of these, six from the garden of Mr. Matthew Lamb of Northaller- 
ton were unrivalled for delicacy and beauty. The vegetables were in the 
greatest abundance, and of the first order: one table was entirely filled with 
useful varieties exhibited by the cottagers in the vicinity of Kiplin, and also in 
this neighbourhood, for the annual prizes given by the Earl of Tyrconnel, the 
president of the Society. —H. L. Northallerton. 

Hull Floral and Horticultural Society. — June 16. There was an exceedingly 
good display of flowers. The ranunculuses shown were not only numerous, 
but in very great perfection. The premium flowers were the most splendid of 
their kind; and we must not omit to notice the large and handsome bouquet 
sent by Mr. D. Brown. By far the greater number of prizes were gained by 
Mr. M. Bell. (Jéid., June 20.) 

The Rev. W. Herbert has presented eight new species of Gladioli, and 
some other fine plants, to the Hull Botanic Garden; to which Mr. Appleby of 
Doncaster has also given R2bes specidsum and a collection of pansies. (Jbid.) 

June 30. This show was principally for pinks; and some very splendid 
ones were exhibited. The roses were extremely beautiful, particularly the 
moss roses of different kmds. Mr. Bell obtained a prize for a beautiful white 
moss rose, which was very much admired. Mr. T. Smithson showed a dish 
of apples, some of last year’s growth, and some of the present year. (Hull 
Advertiser, July 4.) 

A most extraordinary circumstance, which is said to have taken place at 
this exhibition, is mentioned in a letter, signed “ An Amateur Florist,” in the 
same paper. It is there stated that a plant of Petunia nyctaginiflora was 
exhibited, with bright yellow flowers alternating with the white. On closer 
examination, however, it was found that the yellow flowers were merely taken 


Yorkshire. 609 


from a common Verbascum, and stuck on the glutinous stems of the Petinia! 
We sincerely hope that this disgraceful trick was practised more in joke than 
with a deliberate design to defraud. 

July 28. This show was principally for pinks and carnations. There were 
some fine gooseberries and other fruit. (Hull, Rockingham, §c., Aug. 2.) 

Sept. 23. This was the last show for the season; and it consisted of 
georginas, China asters, fruit, and vegetables. The georginas were very per- 
fect, and of the most luxuriant colours: we are much gratified to observe the 
extreme pains taken to cultivate this splendid flower, which can be obtained 
in so many varieties. The fruit, especially apples and grapes, was extremely 
fine. The whole collection was afterwards kindly sent, for exhibition and 
sale, to the bazaar at the Mechanics’ Institute. The company, during the 
day, was extremely numerous and fashionable; and all expressed themselves 
greatly pleased with the exhibition. (Hull Observer, Sept. 30.) 

Leeds Florists’ Society. — June 23. This show was a very fine one. It was 
entirely for pinks; and Mr. J. Kearsly was the most successful candidate. 
(York Herald, June 28.) 

Whitby Floral and Horticultural Society. —April 29. (The room was neatly 
decorated with evergreens, &c., and fitted up in a style well adapted to the 
reception of the numerous and respectable audience; so that the specimens 
could be viewed by all, without the least inconvenience or annoyance one to 
another. The order and taste displayed, in placing the specimens submitted 
for competition, reflect great credit on the committee and secretary (Mr. M. 
L. Simpson). The auriculas, polyanthuses, and hyacinths were very beautiful. 
(Yorkshire Gazette, May 3.) 

June 24. Owing to the late dry weather, and the consequent unnatural 
forwardness of the floral season, there were no specimens of ranunculuses or 
anemones, both being past their prime; but the show of pinks was considered 
good. H. Belcher, Esq., and several other gentlemen residing in Whitby and 
its suburbs, are entitled to the best thanks of the Society, for their kindness in 
furnishing green-house plants to decorate the exhibition room, as, of course, 
this cannot be done without some little risk to the plants thus furnished. The 
best pink was Reform; and it was shown by Mr. W. Frankland, jun. (York 
Herald, June 28.) 

September Exhibition. Great inconvenience was experienced by the crowd, 
not half the company being able to obtain a view of the flowers. ‘The pre- 
sident (H. Belcher, Esq.) suggested the idea of having a range of light stands, 
after the manner of green-house shelves, to run the whole length of the room, 
but capable of being moved from place to place, made at the expense of the 
Society, for the better display of flowers, and particularly of georginas ; and 
not only recommended the money at present in the hands of the treasurer 
being laid out in that manner, but most liberally offered his share of the prize- 
money towards defraying the expense of the proposed arrangement. There 
were several specimens of new annuals and other rare cut flowers in the room ; 
as well as one or two green-house plants in pots, principally from the garden 
of the president. But the georginas were the stars transcendent: of these 
there were an immense number, which were splendid in the extreme. It is 
astonishing where they all came from, considering the paucity of gardens and 
the bleakness of the surrounding country ; but it is apprehended that very many, 
and those the best in the room, were grown by the small tradespeople in the 
town, in gardens only a few feet square. This is doubly gratifying, and an 
evident symptom of the refinement of that valuable and important class of 
society. (Yorkshire Gazette, Sept. 13.) : 

Ripon Horticultural Society. — April 25. The show of fruit, flowers, and 
vegetables (considering the early season) was exceedingly fine. The auriculas, 

olyanthuses, and pelargoniums were particularly deserving of admiration. 
(Ibid., May 3.) ; i 

York Florisis.— July 28. This was an annual show for carnations, picotees, 

and gooseberries. The flowers were particularly fine. (York Courant, July 31.) 


610 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


York Horticultural and Floral Society. — May 14. At this show, the tulips 
and pelargoniums were particularly beautiful. (Yorkshire Gazette.) 

Sept. 11. There was an extremely fine display of plants, flowers, fruits, 
and vegetables; and, most of the plants being very rich in bloom, the room 
presented a charmingly variegated appearance. There were two superb bou- 
quets: one an arch, about 12 ft. high; the other a plateau, beautifully arranged. 
The first of these was furnished by Mr. Wood, the second by Mr. Holmes. 
-Among the articles which excited great attention were, two orange trees, with 
their golden fruit pendent from their boughs; a Patagonian gourd, grown by 
G. Swann, Esq., at Mill Crooks, near York; and a vase of flowers, cut by 
Mr. Johnson, cook at the Black Swan, from the turnip, carrot, and beet roots. 
Mr. Johnson imitated nature so marvellously well, as to deceive casual 
observers; who took his “ handyworks” for the veritable productions of 
Flora. Among the fruit, the show of grapes and apples was good; that of 
pears meagre: but those which obtained the prizes were large in size, and 
excellent in quality. There was a very thin show of plums, which have, this 
year, been a failing crop. The melons were not remarkably fine; and only one 
pine was exhibited. (did.) 

Bedale Horticultural Society. — May 26. Great taste was displayed in the 
decoration of the room, under the obliging superintendence of Mr. Hewson, 
gardener to Miss Peirse, the whole of the walls being covered with branches 
of the common laurel, numerously interspersed with pezeony flowers. This 
arrangement gave to the interior a verdant gaiety, and grove-like appearance, 
which comported well with the occasion ; and, as it obviated, at the same time, 
the otherwise unfavourable character of the building, it did not fail to cal! forth 
the unanimous approval of all present. (York Herald, June 7.) 

East Riding Floral and Horticultural Society. — June 5. [Only an adver- 
tisement of this Meeting has reached us.] (Hull Advertiser, May 23.) 

The Wakefield Horticultural Society.— May. The exotic bouquet, exhi- 
bited by Mr. Appleby, gardener to the Rey. J. A. Rhodes, contained a large 
collection of the most beautiful and superb flowers that grow. Four pots 
of ericas, from the gardens of Henry Wilson, Esq., of Birthwaite Hall, were 
most magnificent and superb specimens. The show of pelargoniums, ericas, 
hot-house and green-house plants was of the first description. The pies 
were excellent, the largest weighing 53lb.; and the peaches, nectarines, 
grapes, cherries, and strawberries, such as could not be surpassed at this 
season of the year. The culinary vegetables were in the greatest abundance, 
of every variety, and of the most excellent qualities. Too much praise 
cannot be given to the gardeners for their support of the Society. (Wakefield 
and Dewsbury Journal, May 23.) 

July 30. There was an excellent show of vegetables and fruits, but a great 
falling off in the display of plants and flowers, in comparison with former 
meetings. The head of the room was ornamented with six splendid bouquets, 
in imitation of pillars festooned, furnished by Mr. Wm. Barrett, the pro- 
prietor of the Wakefield Botanical Gardens; to whom the institution has 
been for a long time much indebted, for his unwearied exertions to contribute 
to the popularity of the exhibitions. Several other bouquets were furnished 
for the decoration of the room. The arrangements did great credit to the 
curatorship of Mr. Hadfield; and to the indefatigable secretary, Mr. Senior. 
The room was crowded. The fruit was very fine. The largest pine (shown by 
Wm. Partridge, gardener to Joshua Ingham, Esq., Blake Hall, Mirfield) weighed 
8 lb. 30z. Mr. Wm. Barrett sent a great number of fine plants, 12 ligneous 
calceolarias, 56 herbaceous ones, and 170 varieties of pansies. (York Courant, 
July 31.) ; 

WALES. 

Swansea and Neath Horticultural Society. — June 19. There were some 
beautiful flowers in the room, especially pelargoniums. Of the fruit there was 
a scanty supply, although a few specimens of grapes were superb. Some 
strawberries, belonging to a cottager at Neath, could hardly be exceeded in 


Wales, Channel Islands. 611 


size or beauty ; and the flowers and vegetables of the cottagers were altogether 
superior to those exhibited at any former show. ‘There will be an increased 
interest in the next two shows, from the extra-prizes given by the president 
to cottagers: for the best cultivated garden, for the greatest number of apple 
trees planted or grafted, for the greatest number of thriving hives of bees, and 
two prizes to labourers who have worked the greatest number of years with 
the same family. Extra-prizes of silver sugar tongs, &c., were given to those © 
gardeners who had won the greatest number of common prizes. (The Cam- 
brian, June 28.) 

July. The flowering plants were remarkably fine; as was the fruit, of 
which there was a great abundance. There were ten cottagers’ prizes. Of 
the other prizes, Mr. Dillwyn Llewelyn obtained by far the greatest number ; 
and, according to the regulation mentioned above, his gardener had a silver 
creain jug awarded to him. (Jéid., Aug. 9.) 

August. This show, to all lovers of georginas, was a great treat. The 
room was honoured by several of the most influential families in the neigh- 
bourhood; and the delight manifested at the beauty of the georginas and 
asters must have been some reward to the exhibiters, for their exertions in 
obtaining such charming additions to our gardens. We give the names of a 
few favourite georginas, which were beyond praise: — Barrett’s Susanna, 
Tincta, Le National, Picta formosissima, Springfield Rival, Harris’s Queen, 
Levick’s Incomparable, and Melancthon, which was so black, that, placed by 
a lady’s black gown, there was but a shade between them. If this Society had 
not existed, when would such a collection of fowers as those exhibited at Neath 
have adorned the gardens of those who now possess them? and, the more 
important point, how would the cottager’s garden have been improved? The 
fruit was fine, particularly the grapes, figs, nectarines, peaches, and apples ; but 
there was a great paucity of ornamental plants for the stage. We cannot for- 
bear alluding to a beautiful nosegay of various flowers, with a first prize card 
on it, awarded to Miss Llewellyn of Baglan Hall. Mr. Maule of Bristol, and 
his son, gave their assistance as censors (which produced much satisfaction) ; 
and, in the handsomest manner, declined the usual fee of two guineas which 
the Society pays to the censors. The number of plants entered for com- 
petition were 450. (bid., Sept. 6.) 

Glamorgan and Monmouthshire Horticultural Society. — June 11. Colonel 
Morgan presided ; and called the attention of the meeting to the rule which 
requires that persons showing fruit, vegetables, or flowers, for prizes, should 
declare that they were their property, and of their own growing and blowing; 
and that they had been two months in their possession at least. Some 
beautiful flowering plants were exhibited, and some fine fruit. There were 
several cottagers’ prizes. (Jdid., June 28.) 


THE CHANNEL ISLANDS. 


Guernsey Horticultural Society.— May 1. This exhibition was highly cre- 
ditable to the island; and a number of fine plants were shown from the gar- 
dens of Sir Thomas Saumarez, Mr. J. Hubert, Mr. F. C. Lukis, Mr. W. De 
Jersey, &c. Among the fruit, we noticed some apples of last year, which 
appeared almost as fresh as if they had just been gathered from the tree. 
There was a small quantity of strawberries, a few cherries, and some very good 
gooseberries; an early Battersea cabbage, exhibited by Mr. Collyer, was a 
most extraordinary one, in point of size, for the season. It is highly credit- 
able to the island, that from one of its cottagers’ gardens should have been 
gathered such a bouquet as that to which the first prize was awarded; con- 
taining, as it did, so many valuable and well-grown flowers. We are convinced 
that the slightest encouragement held out by the Society cannot fail to pro- 
mote and improve the practice of floriculture among a population which has 
always evinced a decided partiality for it, throughout all classes, from the 
highest to the lowest. We hope it will especially tend to make the cottagers 
careful to select for cultivation only the choicest and most beautiful sorts ; 
a vast number of which, fortunately, require no more attention than the most 


612 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


common. The green peas and early potatoes, for which there were three com- 
petitors, were remarkable, not only for their forwardness, but for their appear- 
ance and quality. We cannot help noticing, as worthy of particular praise, a 
bunch of twenty-five heads of asparagus, of the Gravesend variety: we feel 
warranted in saying that it might challenge competition with any bunch of the 
same sort ever produced. A double prize was given for this asparagus to the 
_ grower, Mr. John Falla, (Comet, May 5.) 

July 8. This show was still better than the last. The fruit was particularly 
beautiful and abundant ; and the culinary vegetables would have been admired 
in any county. The cottagers’ articles were improved both in quantity and 
quality. Nearly forty prizes were distributed. (Idid., July 10.) 

Oct. 16. The sizes of several articles which obtained prizes are given 
below, as interesting to show their respective habits of growth in Guernsey. 
A prize for six Chaumontel pears, grown against a wall, was awarded to Mrs. 
Baldock. Among that number, the largest weighed 24: 0z., the next 20 02z., 
and another 16 0z.: these three grew upon the same spur. ‘The other three 
weighed 46 oz. : making altogether 1060z. We also noticed six fine Cras- 
sane pears, sent in by Sir Thomas Saumarez. Of the six extra-pears, known 
by the name of the Duchesse @’ Angouléme, the largest weighed 21302. We 
observed, also, six other Chaumontel pears, grown against a wall, weighing 
1124 0z.: the largest, 243 0z.; and the other five, 88 oz.; and six others, very 
fine, grown out of doors. We remarked, also, as worthy of notice, a fine plate 
of strawberries (known by the name of Metheven Castle, or Duke of Kent), 
by Sir T. Saumarez. There were several bunches of beautiful grapes : among 
which we remarked one of the black Hamburgh, weighing 2b. 11 0z.; one 
known by the name of black Jamaica, weighing 2 lb. 9 0z.; one of the white 
muscadine, weighing 1 lb. 12 0z.; and the muscat of Alexandria, weighing 
2lb.: the whole of which were sent by Mr. F. Mansell of the Vauxbellets. 
Among the vegetables there was a string of onions, fifty in number, worthy of 
notice (the whole weighed together 223 lb.), the property of Mr. Harry Do- 
bree, jun. A very large parsnep, belonging to Mr. George Foote, attracted 
our attention; it measured 21 In. in circumference: and, not far from it, we 
noticed a beet root, appertaining to Mr. Henry Carre, that weighed 24 1b. 
There were exhibited six fine heads of Cobbett’s Indian corn, presented by 
the bailiff; and Mr. Harry Dobree sent in, also, six heads of Baron Louis’s 
Indian corn, upon one of which we reckoned as many as thirty grains in one 
row on the length, and twelve rows in the girth. (Jd:d., Oct. 17.) 

Agricultural and Horticultural Society of Jersey.— May 14. This was the 
first exhibition of the Society in the garden and poultry departments ; and 
the latter was certainly very inferior to what was sanguinely expected. There 
was a public breakfast, to which about 250 persons sat down. The room was 
decorated with festoons of flowers; and the exhibition of flowers, generally, 
was extremely good. The fruit and vegetables were of an inferior descripticn. 
A mowing machine, and a chafl-cutter with four knives, were exhibited. Mr. 
B. Saunders, nurseryman, sent between 700 and 800 choice green-house plants, 
most of which he disposed of. (Jersey Times, May 16.) 

Sept. 11. The difierent sorts of georginas that were exhibited were parti- 
cularly good and splendid; and the flowers from seedling plants, in beauty 
and perfection, surpassed any we had before seen. There were also several 
very good assortments of green-house flowers; but the competition in this 
respect was very limited, owing to the advanced period of the year. The room 
was very tastefully decorated ; and a large anchor, suspended from the ceiling, 
composed entirely of georginas from Mr. Saunders’s nursery garden, excited 
much admiration. The arrangement of the whole show was almost exclusively 
conducted by Col. and Mrs. Le Couteur, assisted by Mr. Saunders ; and to 
the excellent taste and kind exertions of Mrs. Le Couteur the exhibiters were 
much indebted. There was a very creditable display of fruits, especially 
grapes, morello cherries, pears, and apples. We were disappointed in seeing 
only one pine, and that not of a size to claim particular merit ; but, we under- 


Scotland. 613 


stand, it was of excellent flavour. The season was too late to expect much of 
a show in forced melons; and we observed only two or three, and those not 
particularly fine. The exhibition for winter fruits will be the most interesting 
to the Jersey horticulturist, and that is fixed for the 15th of October. Sir John 
De Veulle showed some very fine peaches ; and the pears and apples from his 
gardens were also good specimens. The show of vegetables was, in our judg- 
ment, the most satisfactory part of the day’s exhibition. The carrots, parsneps, 
and onions were particularly good; and three heads of celery that were 
shown were as fine as any we have ever seen so early in the season. In 
the list of prizes, we observe the weight of some of the vegetables, two 
examples of which we shall give, as we have already given some of those 
of Guernsey: fifty onions weighed 19]b.; and twelve parsneps, 264 lb., 
&c. We were rather surprised to find a list of the charges of a veterinary 
surgeon appended to the list of horticultural prizes; but this was accounted 
for, by the Society being for the encouragement of agriculture as well as hor- 
ticulture. (Jbid., Sept. 9.) 

Oct. 15. This was a most brilliant show of autumnal fruits and flowers. 
The specimens of apples and pears were, perhaps, the finest ever produced ; 
and many deserved particular notice. Some Belles de Jersey pears, of extra- 
ordinary magnitude, were placed there by Col. Le Couteur as a present to His 
Majesty. Some Chaumontel pears were exhibited by Mr. P. Langelier, fifty 
of which weighed 41 lb.; two weighed 96 oz.; twelve Beurré d’Aremberg, by 
Mr. James Hammond, weighed 94 lb. ; twelve Crassane, 7 lb. 14.0z.; twelve 
Duchesse d’Angouléme, 133 lb.; twelve Bon Chrétien d’Espagne, 93 lb.; 
and two bunches of out-door grapes, 5lb. (Tdid., Oct. 17.) [We were sorry 
to observe no cottagers’ prizes mentioned in these accounts. ] 


SCOTLAND. 


Caledonian Horticultural Society. — Dec. 6. 1833. The various fruits» 
flowers, and roots exhibited were never, we believe, surpassed for beauty or 
excellence ; but, owing to the inclement season, and the distance of the exhi- 
bition from the city, the attendance of company was less than usual. It has, 
therefore, been suggested that the winter meetings of the Society should, as 
formerly, be held in town. Among the prizes was one for a collection of pears, 
produced from grafts obtained from the experimental garden, which appeared 
to the committee so uncommonly fine, that they thought it right to award an 
extra medal for them to Mr. John Young, gardener to Su James Gibson 
Craig, Bart., of Riccarton. The secretary exhibited several large blanched 
specimens of the prickly cardoon, or Cardon de Tours, from the garden of 
Thomas Guthrie Wright, Esq., Duddingstone Cottage; and stated that the 
blanching had been accomplished by using hypnum moss in place of straw 
ropes, the former material being preferable, as communicating no bad flavour 
to the cardoon. He added, that the committee regarded this as a meritorious 
practice, deserving of attention; and recommended that a medal should be 
awarded to Mr. John King, gardener to Mr. Wright ; which was agreed to. 
The Society having offered a premium for the best collection of seeds of ever- 
green trees and shrubs saved in Scotland, the committee reported that it was 
due to Mr. John Street, gardener at Biel; who had sent a parcel containing 
considerable quantities of common laurel, Portugal laurel, and laurustinus, 
withfsmall quantities of the seeds of Chinese arbor-vitze and sweet bay. Very 
fine bunches of black Hamburgh and white muscadine grapes were then placed 
on the table; the produce of a flued wall at Erskine House garden, without 
the aid of glass, and gathered on the 4th inst. A letter from Mr. George 
Shiells was read, mentioning that the family had been supplied with such 
grapes since the end of October; and that there were still about thirty bunches 
remaining. The committee, lastly, called the attention of the meeting to 
several excellent articles, both fruits and roots, the produce of the Society’s 
experimental garden; and which did great credit to Mr. Barnet asa cultivator. 
A communication was read to the meeting on the forcing and blanching of 


Vou. X,.— No. 57, xoEx 


614 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


Buda kale, by Mr. James Mackintosh, gardener at Archerfield. The kale is 
planted in boxes, which are introduced successively into the mushroom house ; 
where the kale is at once forced and blanched (light being excluded), while 
the production of mushrooms is not interrupted. (Kdinburgh Advertiser.) 

March 6. 1834. Only one competitor having appeared under eaci of the 
heads of China roses and pears, the committee did not feel themselves war- 
ranted to award a medal to either; and there was no competitor for the prize 
offered for early cucumbers. These defects, however, were considered as amply 
compensated by the excellence of the actual productions, particularly of some 
seedling camellias; one of which, raised at Woodhall, by Mr. Robert Den- 
holm, under the direction of his predecessor, the late Mr. Walter Henderson, 
was very much admired: and, of the culinary articles, a parcel of blanched 
rhubarb stalks, upwards of 3 ft. in length. These latter were the produce of 
Seacliffe garden; and, though no medal was offered for such produce, the 
Society took occasion to mark their approbation to the grower, Mr. Arthur 
Calder, gardener to John Sligo, Esq., and requested him to communicate an 
account of his mode of forcing. Specimens of a pear, from Hopetoun House 
garden, excited much curiosity from the singularity of its history. The tree, 
which grows as a standard at Hopetoun, had produced abundantly for several 
years, but its fruit was always hard, gritty, and disagreeable to the taste ; 
until this season, when it has become melting, and of agreeable flavour. 
Thanks were voted to Mr. James Smith for this production; and he was 
requested to continue to observe the tree and its produce, and to communicate 
the history of the fruit, as far as can be ascertained. (Jbid.) 

Horticultural Exhibition. — June 5. This show was a very good one. The 
calceolarias from Comely Bank, and the plants from the botanic garden, &c., 
were very much admired. At the experimental garden, a seedling grape, 
resembling the royal muscadine, but ripening some weeks earlier, raised by 
Mr. Taylor, gardener to the Earl of Dunmore; a most extensive collection 
of species of the genus J‘ris, from Mr. Forester, gardener to D. Falconar, 
Esq., of Carlowrie; a new species of Testudinaria, lately imported by Mr. 
Lawson, seedsman; a collection of fine green-house plants, from Mr. Hender- 
son, Trinity Cottage; sweet peas in flower, which had been treated as bien- 
nials, from Mr. Guthrie Wright, Duddingstone Cottage; and admirable 
specimens of the Gros Asperge of Holland, from Mr. Bell, gardener to Mr. 
Wallace of Newton Hall. All excited great interest. An elegant vase, and 
two ornamental flower-pots, manufactured from the fine fire-clay lately dis- 
covered at Garnkirk, were exhibited, and much admired. (Jbid. 

» AYRSHIRE. — Kilmarnock Horticultural Society. Sept. 12. and 13. The 
walls of the room were tastefully hung round with wreaths of evergreens and 
flowers ; the passages were ornamented with eight smaller and two very large 
arches of evergreens and flowers, from which hung bunches of grapes, pears, 
plums, and other fruits; and a great quantity of fine stuffed birds from Mr. 
Charles Russel, very appropriately placed, heightened the effect. The chan- 
delier was ornamented with two very large and splendid leaves of the banana 
tree. The orchestra was completely concealed by evergreens; and beauti- 
fully ornamented by a large and splendid structure, much admired and richly 
ornamented, denominated the Temple of Flora, executed by Mr. Laing of 
Messrs. W. and T. Samson’s nursery. A large model of Caprington Castle, 
executed by Mr. Isaac Buchanan, flower-gardener there, richly ornamented 
with heath and flowers, attracted much admiration; as did also two figures, 
models of the Town House and Burns’s Monument, neatly executed and 
richly ornamented by Mr. Wm. Nesmith and Mr. Wm. Wallace, gardeners in 
the employ of Messrs. Fowlds and Lymburn; also a cone of evergreens, 
richly ornamented with flowers, by Mr. John Dunlop of the same establish- 
ment. A most ingenious device was displayed by Mr. Archibald Smart, fore- 
man to Messrs. W. and T. Samson, of the flowers of the double white camel- 
lia, so neatly cut out of a turnip as to deceive practised eyes, had the present 
been the season of flowering. The tables were covered with a splendid dis- 


Ayrshire, Dumfriesshire, Fifeshire. 615 


play of flowers, fruit, and vegetables. Among the names of the. different 
contributors to this annual exhibition, which we regret that we have not room 
to msert, we select the following, because the size of two of the articles men- 
tioned is distinctly stated: — Mr. Campbell’s gardener at Netherplace. exhi- 
bited some fine seedling apples, from North America; very fine bon chrétien 
pears and magnum plums; a large pumpkin, 184 lb.; fine georginas, and. 
many fine specimens of other flowers; very fine onions and leeks; and a 
branch cf an Irish yew tree, from a plant growing in Mr. Campbell’s garden, 
the trunk of which is 6 ft. | in. in girth, 20 ft. 4in. high, and 66 ft. 3 in. in cir- 
cumference. There is also another plant in the same garden, very little infe- 
rior. (Kilmarnock Journal, Sept. 26.) 

Domrriessuire. — Dumfries and Galloway Horticultural Society. The 
display of fruit was finer and larger than usual; and included pine-apples 
grown at Drumlanrig, splendid grapes and jargonelles from the same demesne, 
and a variety of the choicest articles from other quarters. The hall was taste- 
fully decorated with flowers; some of them woven into the shape of crowns, 
and others rising in the form of a pyramid, which actually overshadowed the 
members of the committee when seated round the bar. Among the former, 
we observed a beautiful bouquet of herbaceous flowers, the gift of Mr. Hen- 
nay, the effect of which was augmented by its comparative rarity. [Weregret 
not having room to insert more particulars of this very interesting exhibition ; 
but one article we must not omit to mention.] 

A plan of an ornamental and kitchen garden, with surrounding walks and 
grounds most tastefully disposed, was produced by the youthful horticulturist 
at Kirkmichael. This plan was carefully inspected, and the design and draw- 
ing much admired: it is to be transmitted to Mr. Loudon, for insertion in his 
Magazine. [We have received the plan, and intend to give it an early place in 
the Magazine.) (Dumfries and Galloway Courier, Sept. 17.) 

Firesuire. — St. Andrew’s Horticultural and Floral Society. April 28. 1834. 
The first meeting for 1834 was held in the Town Hall here, which was granted 
by the magistrates, free of expense. A more brilliant display of fruits, flowers, 
and vegetables we have seldom witnessed at this season of the year. Besides the 
articles for competition, there were exhibited, from the garden of John Small, 
Esq., Priory, a fine specimen of Richardia eethidpica, a large Hydrangea in 
full flower, some ripe strawberries, and early Albany kidney potatoes from the 
open garden; from the garden of Major Playfair of St. Leonard’s, a lot of 
early peas in full pod, some fine camellias, and early double tulips; from the 
garden of the late Mr. Binny, a fine collection of spring flowers, and excellent 
sulphur broccoli and carrots; by Mr. W. Erskine, some excellent dessert and 
baking apples, and very large Altrincham and scarlet horn carrots ; also some 
beautiful auriculas, from the garden of Mrs. Glass, Abbey Park. The bouquets 
of flowers were numerous, large, and varied. Auriculas, polyanthuses, prim- 
roses, tulips, anemones, and wallflowers were very fine. Mr. Bousie, writer, 
gained the first prizes for auriculas and polyanthuses; Mr. Low, upholsterer, 
for the double hyacinths ; Mr. M‘Kenly, gardener to Mrs. Cheap of Strathty- 
rum, for polyanthus narcissus, single anemones, hardy spring flowers, aspa- 
ragus, leeks, celery, beet root, apples, and bouquet of flowers; our corre- 
spondent, Mr. Smith, gardener to John Small, Esq., Priory, for the cucumber, 
broccoli, sea-kale, rhubarb, and carrots. Second prizes were gained by Mrs. 
Dr. Cook, for auriculas and carrots; by Major Playfair, for bouquet of 
flowers and leeks; by Mr. M‘Kenly, for polyanthus, broccoli, sea-kale, and 
rhubarb ; by Mr. Smith, for asparagus; and the first prize for cottagers’ leeks 
was won by David Scott, shoemaker. (Fifeshire Journal, May 3.) 

June 2. The show was altogether very elegant; and, though the gaudy 
tulip family was nearly wanting, still the Society have much reason to be 
proud of this exhibition ; and it is gratifying to be able to state, that, since the 
last meeting, there has been a large accession of members, both from the uppe 
walks of life and from operative gardeners. (JVife Herald, June 5.) 

Sept. 8, Amore rich and splendid exhibition has rarely been seen. To 

XxX 2 


616 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


pay a just tribute to each individual production would exceed our limits ; 
but there were some which to pass over without notice would be unpardon- 
able. The grapes, for instance, were allowed to be most excellent, both in 
flavour and size of berry and bunch. The georginas, also, were particularly 
splendid, especially those from Strathtyrum and Balcarres; the former of 
which produced 160 new varieties from seed of this king of flowers. The 
culinary vegetables were quite astonishing in their proportions. The standard 
pears and apples from Clayton were very much admired ; and we would recom- 
mend all those interested in the acclimatising of the tender and finer sorts of 
fruit to visit that place. We observe that Mr. M‘Kenly, gardener to Mrs. Cheap 
of Strathtyrum, gained several prizes; and that Messrs. Urquhart and Sons, 
nurserymen, of Dundee, exhibited a fine collection of double georginas, some 
of them striped. (Ffeshire Journal, Sept. 20.) 

Kirkaldy Horticultural Society. — Sept. The judges particularly noticed a 
collection of French marigolds, from Mr. Ewing’s nursery at Balgonie; a col- 
lection of China asters, lobelias, and phloxes, from Mr. Tough’s nursery ; 
130 splendid georginas, from the Earl of Rosslyn’s garden, exhibited by Mr. 
Oliver; and 112 beautiful hollyhocks, from the same place; a collection of 
georginas, from Mr. Sang’s nurseries; a collection of pears, from Mr. Oliver ; 
twelve Longueville pears, weighing half a pound each, from a standard tree in 
Mr. Paton’s garden, Dysart, which, this season, has produced 800 lb.; a 
collection of apples, from standard trees upwards of a hundred years old, 
belonging to Mr. Watt, Balbarton, by Mr. Tough; a beautiful collection of 
georginas, from Mr. James Kellock, gardener at Gogar House; a very fine 
cockscomb, from Mr. Temple, gardener, Falkland Palace; a specimen of In- 
dian corn at maturity, about 8 ft. high, from Mr. Sang’s nurseries ; very fine 
specimens of black Gibraltar grapes, from Mr. Simson, Wemyss Castle; a 
specimen of longpod bean, having seven beans in each pod, from the Rev. Mr. 
Brodie, Monimail ; a collection of antirrhinums, from Mr. David Colville; three 
large green Leadington apples, from Mr. Peter Kidd, Burntisland; and a bas- 
ket of very fine red alpine strawberries, from Mr. Bell, gardener at Newton 
Hall. Among the prizes, we can only find room for the following; the first 
of which we consider more especially well worthy of being recorded : — Mr. 
Archibald Reekie, apprentice mm Mr. Sang’s nurseries, Kirkaldy, for the best 
herbarium, containing about 1080 species of plants arranged in natural orders. 
Extra-prizes were also awarded to Mr. James Kellock, for twelve beautiful 
China asters; and to Mr. Temple, gardener, Falkland Palace, for a fine sample 
of onions, the growth of 1833. (Jéid.) 

Collingsburgh Horticultural Society. — Sept. 9. The display of fruits, flowers, 
and vegetables was inferior to none in Fifeshire. There were three cottagers’ 
prizes awarded; viz. for the best collection of flowers, best six onions, and the 
heaviest two savoys, to James Purves, gamekeeper, Largo House. A splendid 
collection of georginas, from the nursery of Mr. Sang, Kirkaldy, excited gene- 
ral admiration; and fine specimens of Coe’s golden drop, and other varieties 
of plums. Among the articles shown, but not for competition, were, a cu- 
cumber, 27 in. in length, by Mr. D. Brewster; a collection of flowers, and 
some fine specimens of pears and plums, by T. Stewart, Largo House; and a 
handsome bouquet of flowers, in the form of a cottage, by Mr. John Braid, 
gardener, Pitcorthie. (Jéid.) 

RENFREWSHIRE. — Glasgow Horticultural Society, July9. To those 
interested in the culture of what are denominated florists’ flowers, the 
extensive display of double pinks demanded minute examination. To the 
more general floriculturist, the rich and varied beauties of the pelargoniums 
attracted admiration; while they much regretted the non-portability of the 
calceolarias, many of which having dropped their flowers in the attempt to 
bring them forward for competition: those from Bothwell Castle were much 
admired, even in their partially denuded state. We, in common with other 
amateurs, were much disappointed at the meagre display of green-house 
plants, considering the number of members who have it im thei power to 


Renfrewshire, Stirlingshire. 617 


make a more splendid exhibition. Some, however, we know, were deterred 
doing so, from the difficulty of transmitting large plants from a distance; and 
who, probably, from a mistaken notion that their excellent collections at home 
might suffer in the estimation of the public, would not bring forward any 
thing of third or fourth rate excellence, which their numerous exhibitions of 
cut flowers of rare plants sufficiently testify. Still, there were shown some 
very well-grown mottled and striped double balsams; but which, we should 
presume, were considered by the judges to come more under the denomination 
of tender annuals than green-house plants. The culinary vegetables were very 
good; some of the cauliflowers measured 26 in. in circumference. (Glasgow 
Weekly Reporter, July 12.) 

Sept.17. This show was of the most brilliant description ; and the room 
was filled with beautiful specimens of all kinds, from nearly all the noblemen’s 
and gentlemen’s seats in the neighbourhood. Our only regret was, that the 
hall was too small for the numerous assemblage of amateurs, and particularly 
for the convenience of the ladies, to inspect the show with ease and comfort. 
In this exhibition we must notice a rustic chair, made by Mr. Wm. Cameron, 
gardener at Barncleugh, near Hamilton; which was acknowledged, on all 
hands, to be a highly meritorious specimen of art, uniting elegance of shape 
with firmness and strength: it was constructed of branches and roots of oak, 
elm, birch, alder, and apple. Miss Tennant’s artificial flowers in wax, three 
of which, viz. a camellia in a pot, and two hyacinths with their roots in glasses, 
stood on the table; vying, in their close resemblance to nature, with all the 
real flowers around. (Glasgow Free Press, Sept. 20.) 

STIRLINGSHIRE. — Stirling Horticultural Society. April 29.__The auriculas 
formed the principal attraction at this meeting; and Mr. Ninion Niven, gar- 
dener to Archibald Stirling, Esq., of Keir, was the most successful candidate. 
The plan of a flower-garden, by John M‘Kenzie, journeyman gardener at 
Blair Drummond, excited considerable attention. Many fine green-house and 
stove plants were sent from the collections of the nobility and gentry in the 
neighbourhood. (Stirling Journal, May 2.) 

June 3. This exhibition was principally for tulips, pelargoniums, and 
heartsease; and some very fine specimens were exhibited. Among the most 
interesting articles were some apples, preserved by being pitted in the earth in 
the same manner as potatoes, and some preserved in a moderately dry loft, the 
fruit being intermixed with straw: both were in excellent condition. There 
was also a model of a flower-garden, upon wood, by James Henderson, 
apprentice gardener at Alva House. Among the articles shown by the 
Messrs. Drummond were some tubers of the O’xalis crenata. (Jdid., June 6.) 

Sept. 16. This was the last competition for the year, and we are happy to 
state that the exhibition was, for richness, variety, and arrangement, such as 
never had been witnessed under the auspices of the Society since its establish- 
ment in 1812, clearly marking the progress of improvement, and reflecting 
the greatest credit on the patrons and directors, but especially displaying 
increasing zeal and enthusiasm on the part of the many intelligent operatives 
connected with it. Although many of the competition and exhibition articles 
are worthy of being particularly singled out for their excellence, want of 
room forbids our enlarging on them; but we cannot help expressing our ad- 
miration of the very ingenious and tasteful manner in which the bouquets of 
hardy flowers were got up, several of them forming elegant and fanciful archi- 
tectural designs; the whole, or chiefly, being the workmanship of juvenile 
gardeners. We would strongly urge our youthful friends to persevere im such 
attempts, and to endeavour to improve their taste in every department con 
nected with their interesting profession. (Jdid., Sept. 19.) 

Falkirk Horticultural Society.—April 26. The peculiar and high excellence 
_of all the articles competed for, and especially the florists’ flowers, many of 
which evinced great perfection, was marked and striking; while the fruits and 
vegetables showed what can be effected by the cultivators of this pleasmg and 
useful art. No competitors appeared for anemones, primulas, cucumbers, 

XS 


618 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


or mushrooms. Mr. Ingram, gardener at Parkhill, produced fine seedling 
apples, which excited much attention, from their combination of good qualities. 
(Ibid., May 2.) 

May 30. . The tulips were remarkably fine, and excited very great admir- 
ation: a manifest improvement was observed in these flowers since the last 
time any were shown. We may notice the superb collection of exotics from 
-Callendar House, combining great beauty and rarity; and the very large heads 
of Indian corn. Mrs. Walker sent from Camelon House some plants of the 
more delicate ericas, which were much admired. A large and remarkable 
specimen of the Coccdloba uvifera was exhibited by Mr. James Miller, and a 
basket of preserved apples by Mrs. Keir. [An allusion is made to a previous 
number of the String Journal, in which the process adopted by this lady is 
detailed : not having seen that paper, we should feel very much obliged if Mrs. 
Bo, or any of her friends, would give us an account of her method.] (Zdid., 

une 6.) 

Sept. 12. The peaches and nectarines were very fine. The vegetables were 
very good; especially the gourds, and among others was a giant gourd 44 ft. 
long. The georginas were very beautiful. (Jdid., Sept. 19.) 


IRELAND. 


HAlorticuliural Society of Ireland.— Jan. 2. This was a private exhibition of 
pears, apples, and grapes, for which prizes were given. Some of the fruit 
was fine, the apples in particular, but they were only of common kinds, there 
not being a single specimen of any of the newly introduced and finer varie- 
ties. Many discrepancies appeared in the nomenclature of both apples and 
pears, and the Society have determined to get models made of well-ascer- 
tained fruit, for gardeners to have recourse to, for the purpose of verifying 
names. Only three bunches of grapes were exhibited. A very empyreumatic, 
but strong, spirit, distilled from the mangold wurtzel, was presented by the 
assistant secretary, Mr. Pooler. (Jrish Farm. and Gard. Mag., Feb. 1834.) 

Jan. 16. An examination was held in Botany and Horticulture, for the 
purpose of awarding premiums and certificates to young gardeners. Only 
three young men offered themselves, and the first prize was gained by Mr. 
Russell from the College Botanic Gardens. All the young men acquitted them- 
selves very creditably. (Jdid.) 

April 24. A collection of plants of extraordinary merit was sent from the 
College Botanic Gardens; but the stove plants entered for competition, and 
the fruit, were by no means equal to what they have been heretofore. The 
heaths and other green-house plants were particularly fine and well flowered. 
The culinary vegetables were excellent. (Jbid., May.) 

May 15. Dr. Plank, and A. B. Crofton, Esq., were the most successful 
competitors for tulips, and Mr. Keefe, nurseryman, for pelargoniums. Among 
the green-house plants sent by Mr. Niven, was a new hybrid epiphyllum. 
A fine spike of flowers of Banksia marcéscens was among the articles sent by 
Mr. Mackay from the College Botanic Gardens. (Zdid., June.) 

June 19. The number of plants, both from private gardens and nurseries, 
was very great, and some of the specimens were very beautiful. Among the 
new plants was a new Passiflora alba, shown by Messrs. Toole, and a new 
double purple rocket, by Messrs. Simpson. Mr. Mackay sent as usual some 
beautiful specimens, among which were some extremely fine new calceolarias, 
raised from seed by Messrs. Dickson of Chester. The committee presented 
Mr. Mackay with a handsome piece of plate, to mark their sense of his 
liberality in declining to compete for prizes, and yet sending so many fine 
plants to the exhibitions. Mr. Lumsden, gardener to Isaac M. D’Ollier, Esq., 

exhibited some fine native oranges, the produce of a tree which had supplied 
that gentleman’s table during the past year with some hundreds of fruit, of 
a quality rarely equalled in this climate. Specimens of Phérmium ténax 
(New Zealand flax), were exhibited by Mr. M‘Cabe, gardener to the Right 
Hon, William Saurin; an unusually large purple stock, by Mr. Kelly, gar- 


dreland. 619 


dener to Col. Conolly, M.P.; and a cherry tree 10 in. high, bearing 24 ripe 
fruit, by Mr. Dumphy of Malahide. (Evening Mail.) 

Aug. 1. The fruit was not very abundant, but there was a good show of 
plants in pots, though we did not observe any new specimens. 

Sept. 11. The peaches were abundant and fine, as were the georginas. 
The other fruit was not remarkable. 

Connaueut.— Connaught Horticultural Society. Aug. 12. Some very fine 
grapes were exhibited ; a bunch, shown by Mr. John Bradshaw, gardener to 
Lord Clonbrock, weighed 5\b. 60z. The largest melon was that shown by 
Mr. John M‘Gregor, gardener to the Archbishop of Tuam, which weighed 7 lb. 
4 0z. The largest gooseberries were those shown by Mr. Bradshaw ; they were 
red, and twenty of them weighed 180z. “ We are happy to add, that several 
premiums were given for the superior cultivation of cottage gardens, and that 
the main object of the Society, namely, the encouragement of useful horticul- 
ture among the humble classes, was found to have greatly advanced during 
the present season.’ Eight cottagers’ prizes were distributed, of which 
Francis Quinn gained two. (Connaught Journal.) 

LeinstER.— Kilkenny Horticultural Society. Jan. 31. The mushrooms 
exhibited by Mr. Carrigan, gardener to the Marquess of Ormonde ; the forced 
asparagus and sea-kale, by Mr. Monk, from the gardens of the Bishop of Os- 
sory; and the broccoli, by Mr. White, gardener to the Countess of Dysart, 
attracted particular attention, and were admitted to be very superior. The 
royale d’hiver pear, and the fruit of the Pstdium Cattley@num, or Chinese guava, 
were also exhibited from Mr. Robertson’s garden, along with a specimen of 
guava jelly, the produce of the latter. This rare preserve and sweetmeat is 
generally imported from the Indies, but may be abundantly prepared from our 
own conservatories, the tree being a hardy and prolific bearer; the fruit is of 
the size and colour of an Orleans plum. “ Mr. Robinson also distributed 
tubers of the O’xalis crenata, about the size of a walnut, and resembling, in 
shape and appearance, a potatoe, combining the flavour of that root with those 
of the sweet chestnut and artichoke. Being very productive and easy of cul- 
ture, it may form a pleasing addition to our supper dishes; but to suppose, 
with some, that it will ever rival the potato in value, is absurd.” From Mr. 
M‘Craith’s nurseries, and Mr. Robertson’s gardens, were also exhibited some 
rare and beautiful exotics in flower. (Kilkenny Journal, Feb. 5.) 

May 1. Among the fruits there were some splendid,shaddocks and oranges, 
grown by J. Kiely, Esq., of Ballysaggartmore, county of Waterford, and we 
regret that there was no prize for them: indeed, the rarity of the former is 
such, in the country, that nothing of the kind was expected. The gardener 
of Mr. Congreve, Mount Congreve, obtained most deservedly a prize for full- 
grown grapes, which must have cost him considerable trouble in forcing. He 
also exhibited remarkably well-grown cucumbers and cauliflowers. Mr. 
Reecks (Mr. Wandesford’s gardener) produced a dish of peas in very good 
preservation, also very excellent French beans, for which we regret no prize 
had been given. There was an admirable show of apples : those of the Bishop 
of Ossory obtained the prize; but there were some from Dysart, Mr. Robert- 
son’s nursery, the Marquess of Ormonde’s, &c., remarkably good. The vegeta- 
bles were of a superior description. Our most esteemed one, the potato, in 
particular; three samples of which were so very nearly alike, that the judges 
drew lots, and Mr. Power’s gardener, of Kilfane, was the fortunate person. 
The prize for cabbages was also adjudged to the same person. A dish of 
superior mushrooms was exhibited by Mr. Carrigan, gardener to the Marquess 
of Ormonde, for which a prize was awarded; and some beautifully blanched 
rhubarb, grown at Jenkinstown, obtained a prize. The display of flowers 
and exotics was grand. The auricula prizes were adjudged to the gardeners 
of the Ladies Patronesses, and were first-rate flowers. An admirable set of 
first-rate hyacinths were shown by the Jenkinstown gardener and Mr. Kilrey : 
the prize was awarded to the three Jenkinstown plants, although two of them 
were much faded ; but the kinds were so magnificent, that they must have been 

xx 4 


. = 


620 Provincial Horticultural Societies. 


chosen out of a lot of the primal flowers. The judges regretted they could 
not also give Mr. Kilrey a prize, as a blue double hyacinth of his was a most 
superior one, and his white and red very good. Mr. Kilrey’s tulips and 
anemones were the best, and obtained prizes. (Kilkenny Journal, May 7.; 
and Kilkenny Moderator, May 7.) 

Wexford Horticultural Society —June 1. The attendance was numerous and 
respectable ; and, considering the infant state of the Society, the show of 
fruits, flowers, and vegetables, far surpassed the expectations of every indivi- 
dual present. The stage presented a beautiful appearance, ornamented with 
the rarest and most valuable plants, particularly those from the garden of 
H. K. G. Morgan, Esq. (Jrish Farm. and Gard. Mag.) 

Meath Horticultural Society.— June 19. Premiums were adjudged to Mr. 
Alexander Stewart, gardener to J. L. W. Naper, Esq., of Loughcrew, who 
also obtained the medal of the Society for having gained the greatest number 
of premiums during the past year. Premiums were also distributed for fruits, 
flowers, and culinary vegetables; and for the following early productions, 
which were sent to the secretary on the day given as a date to each :—May 5. 
Good early potatoes, from Mr. P. Dorey, gardener to A. H. C. Pollock, Esq., 
of Mountainstown. May 28. Dish of shelled peas, from R. Rothwell, Esq., 
a Rockfield. May 31. Melon, from H. O'Reilly, Esq., of Newgrove. (Zé:d, 

uly.) 

Munster. — Waterford Horticultural Society. Aug. 13. The long table of 
fruits, so rich in hue, and displaying so much luxuriant beauty, that ran along 
the hall, had a most gorgeous appearance, interspersed as they were with nume- 
rous bouquets of splendid cut flowers. Amongst the fruits we particularly 
noticed several splendid pines from Curraghmore, Ballysaggartmore, Wood- 
stock, and Belmount House. The prize pine was particularly fine, and 
weighed nearly 7lb. The grapes also were very fine; the prize bunch (mus- 
cat of Alexandria) weighed upwards of 5lb. There were several hot-house 
and green-house plants from Woodstock ; but, perhaps, the most ornamental 
article in the rooms was a magnificent collection of georginas from the Wa- 
terford nursery. An extra-prize was awarded for aglass of honey sent in by 
the family of Anthony Jackson, Esq., of Sweetbriar Lodge, in Newtown suburbs. 
This article was the theme of general admiration for its extreme purity. The 
bees were kept in boxes and glass hives, somewhat similar to those of Mr. Nutt, 
an invention of Mr. Thomas Jackson, now an eminent architect in Belfast. 
(Waterford Mirror, Aug. 16.) 

Limerick Horticultural Society. —We find from the Irish Farmers and Gar- 
dener’s Magazine, that a Society has been recently formed in this city, but we 
have not yet seen any accounts of its meetings. We rejoice, however, in its 
commencement, and most cordially wish it success. f 

UtstEer.— Belfast Horticultural Society. April\5. The hyacinths and 
auriculas were very much admired, and very deserving of admiration; and 
the plants in pots, roses, fruit, and culinary vegetables were very good. (Bel- 
fast News-Letter.) : 

June. This show was excellent, and superior to what we have seen for 
many years. The fruits, culinary vegetables, and flowers were all so good, 
that it was difficult to decide which was best. The Society has already led 
to a decided improvement in garden cultivation in the north of Ireland. (Jéid.) 

Sept. 10. The georginas were remarkably fine, as were the cockscombs 
and balsams. The ericas were also very fine, particularly those of Mr. Ar- 
buthnot Emerson. The best pines were those of Mr. Lewis, gardener to 
Col. Forde of Seaford, and the best grapes those of Mr. Walker, from Purdy’s 
Burn, who also showed some fine melons. (Belfast Guardian.) 


621 


INDEX TO BOOKS NOTICED AND REVIEWED. 


GENERAL SUBJECT. 


Annales de Flore et de Pomone, mentioned, 319. 

Booth’s Cottager’s Manual, announced, 591. 

Booth and Sons’ Catalogue of the Hardy Plants in 
their Flottbeck Nurseries, noticed, 149. 

Catalogue d’une Partie de Plantes existant en 
Double au Jardin de la Société Royale d’Hor- 
ticulture des Pays Bas, et qui sont 4 échanger 
ou a céder, noticed, 321. 

Catalogue des Pépiniéres du Perck, par Vilvorde et 
Dieghem, mentioned, 321. 

Catalogue Général des Pépiniéres de Vilvorde, 
mentioned, 321. 

Cattermole’s illustrated Aikin’s Calendar of Na- 
ture, noticed, 233. 

Charlwood’s Catalogue for 1834, of Seeds of Herb- 
aceous Plants, Trees, and Shrubs, on sale by 
him, noticed, 150. 

Clarke’s Adam the Gardener, noticed, 149. 

Cinquantiéme Exposition Publique de la Société 
Royale d’Agriculture et de Botanique a Gand, 
noticed, 319. 

Devon and Cornwall Royal Botanical and Hor- 
ticultural Society’s Fourth Annual Report, no- 
ticed, 270. 

Griffin’s First Lines of Chemistry, noticed, 295. 

Harrison’s Gardener’s and Forester’s Record, no- 
ticed, 230. ‘ 

Hooker’s Journal of Botany, noticed, 232. 391. 

Lindley’s Ladies’ Botany, ann. 156. ; not. 390. 

L’Horticulteur Belge, Journal des Jardiniers et 
Amateurs, reviewed, 444. 


Loudon’s Encyclopedia of Gardening, a new edi-- 


tion, noticed, 73. 

Main’s Catechism of Gardening, noticed, 319. 

Moléon’s Recueil de ia Société Polytechnique, 
mentioned, 449. 

Murray’s (Hugh) Encyclopedia of G ography, 
noticed, 448, 

Murray’s (John) Physiology of Plants, or the 
Phenomena and Laws of Vegetation, not. 269. 
Oxford Botanical and Natural History Society’s 

First Report, noticed,271. 
Pamplin’s Catalogue of Old Books on Botany and 
Gardening, noticed, 448. 
Parnell’s Telford’s Treatise on Roads, not. 319. 
Paxton’s Horticultural Register, noticed, 230. 
Poiteau and Vilmorin’s Le Bon Jardinier, pour 
1834, not. 155. 
Poynter’s Cottage-Gardener, noticed, 50. 
Rennie’s Handbook of Gardening, noticed, 152. 
Rennie’s Magazine of Botany and Gardening, &c. 
noticed, 49. 
Transactions of the Agricultural and Horticul- 
tural Society of India, reviewed, 440. 


HORTICULTURE. 


Allen’s ‘Treatise on an entirely Original System 
of cultivating Cucumbers, Melons, and Seakale, 
forcing Broccoli, Potatoes, &c., noticed, 152. 

A Treatise on Fruit Trees, by an Old Pomologist, 
announced, 449. 

Hayward’s Inquiry into the Causes of the Fruit- 
fulness and Barrenness of Plants and Trees, 
noticed, 500. 

Le Jardin Fruitier, par M. Noisette, 319. 

Méthode nouvelle, facile, et peu cotiteuse de cul- 
tiver le Champignon, noticed, 320, 

Prince’s Pomological Manual, noticed, 156. 

Smith’s Treatise on the Cultivation of the Cu- 
cumber, Mushroom, &c., noticed, 575. 

Transactions of the Horticultural Society of Lon- 
don, Second Series, vol. i. part ili., reviewed, 
296. 500 ; part v., noticed, 169. 


FLORICULTURE. 
Curtis’s Botanical Magazine, noticed, 63. 169. 237. 
984. 347. 399. 458. 511. 564. 583. : 
Dennis’s Catalogue, for 1834, of Pelargoniums 
and Dahlias on sale by him, noticed, 150, 


Doyle’s Monthly Calendar of Practical Directions 
for the Culture of Flowers, noticed, 271. 

Edwards’s Botanical Register, noticed, 63. 169. 
237. 284, 347. 399. 458. 511. 564. 583. 

Extrait du Catalogue de J, F. Vandermaelen 
Genre, noticed, 321. 

Flore des Serres et des Jardins de Paris, au xixe 
Siécle, mentioned, 319. 

Harrison’s Floricultural Cabinet, noticed, 230. 

Lejeune and Courtois’s Compendium Flore Bel- 
gice, noticed, 449. 

Loddiges’s Botanical Cabinet, noticed, 63. 

Maund’s Botanic Garden, noticed, 230. 

Nees von Esenbeck’s Genera Plantarum Flore 
Germanice Iconibus et Descriptionibus illus. 
trata, noticed, 155, 

Paxton’s Magazine of Botany and Gardening, 
reviewed, 230. 

Prix-Courant des Plantes disponsibles en 1834, 
chez L. Jacob Makoy, Horticulteur a Liége, 
noticed, 521, 

Rivers’s New Descriptive Catalogue of Roses, 
reviewed, 509. 

Royle’s Illustrations of the Botany and_ other 
Branches of the Natural History of the Hima- 
layan Mountains, and of the Flora of Cashmere, 
noticed, 149. 392. 

Sowerby’s English Botany, the small edition, no- 
ticed, 295. 

Sweet’s British Flower-Garden, noticed, 63. 169. 
237. 284, 347. 399. 458. 564. 583. 

Woo0d’s Catalogue of Roses, noticed, 51. 

Zamia ptiingens, female, an engraving of, men- 
tioned, 335. 


LANDSCAPE-GARDENING. 


Loudon’s Library of Landscape-Gardening, a 
prospectus of, 51. 

Prince Piickler-Muskau’s Hints on Landscape- 
Gardening, announced, 156. 


ARBORICULTURE. 


Ballard’s Treatise on the Nature of Trees, and on 
the Pruning of Timber Trees, noticed, 74. 

Harrison’s Gardener’s and Forester’s Record, 
noticed, 230. 

Loudon’s *Arboretum Britannicum, announced, 
and particulars on the-plan and scope of, 558, 
581. 589. 

Wallis’s Dendrology, noticed, 51. 


AGRICULTURE. 


Agricultural Magazine, an, announced, 449. 

Kemp’s Discovery of the Means of decomposing 
Common Salt, for the Purpose of Manure, no- 
ticed, 233. 

Low’s Elements of Practical Agriculture, re- 
viewed, 447. y : 

Purvis’s Report de Agriculture’ du Gatinois, de 
la Sologne, et du Barry; et des Moyens de 
Vaméliorer, noticed, 154. 

Report of the Exhibition of Agricultural Pro- 
ductions, new Implements, &c., at the premises 
of Messrs. Dickson and Turnbull, Nurserymen, 
Perth, reviewed, 504. 

Stephens’s Practical Irrigator or Drainer, noticed, 
233 


Sutton’s certain Method to prevent the Ravages 
perpetrated on the Turnip Plant by the Beetle, 
noticed, 154, i 

Tessier’s Annales de l’Agriculture Frangaise, 
noticed, 449. . 

Turnip Fly (Beetle), the Doncaster Agricultural 
Association’s Report on the, announced, 449. 


ARCHITECTURE. 
Loudon’s Architectural Magazine and Review, 


announced, 52. 
Loudon’s Encyclopedia of Cottage, ‘Farm, and 
Villa Architecture, noticed, 56, 570, 


GENERAL INDEX. 


Asis spectabilis Lam., the’state of the seeds of, 
after arrival in England from India, 452. : 

Agricultural objects exhibited at the premises of 
Messrs. Dickson and Turnbull, Perth, an ac. 
count of, 504; a notice of the purposes of the 
Bath and West of England Agricultural Society, 
90, 

Agriculture considered briefly in relation to prac- 
tice and science, 447. 

A’llium, queries on species of, 242, 

Alpine plants, see Plants. Y 

Anemone, a notice of flowers of a Dutch variety 
of the poppy-flowered, 593 ; Anémone nemordsa, 
its flowers are fragrant, 187. 

Aponogéton distachyon is hardy, 407. 

Appio roots, of what species of plant are they? 
26. 

Apple tree and apple: a notice of Mr. Rivers’s 
orchard of miniature apple trees, 316; the 
names of certain varieties of apples eligible for 
cultivating in pots, 317; some facts on Mr. 
Rivers’s mode of cultivating apple trees, 316, 
317 ; scions‘of the best varieties of apples offered 
for sale, 235; the names of certain kinds of 

' apple of which trees have been received from 
Boston, United States, 451; queries on the Wy- 
ken pippen apple, 242; other notices on apples, 
593. 603. 


Apricot, the Moorpark, diseased, a notice of the 
state of disease, 188. 

Aquatic plants, interesting points in the structure 
of, 63; facts on the aquarium at Claremont, 
325; a notice of a mode of applying heat from 
steam to aquatic plants, 229; the names of 
some species of aquatic plants, 346. 

Arboretum Britannicum, information on the pur- 
posed scope of, 558. 581. 589. 

Arboretums in Britain, instances of, 166. 353. 

Arboriculture, 234, 241. 378. 

Ash tree, common, a notice of a remarkable va- 
riety of, wild, at Kincairny, Perthshire, 384 ; 
notes on the common ash, 385; upon the droop- 
ing ash, 180. 385. 408; upon the Carolinian and 
yellow-barked drooping ash, 331; upon various 
species of ash, 385. 

Asparagus, on forcing, 146; the mode of forcing 
asparagus which is practised in the neighbour- 
hood of Paris, 147; remarks, suggestions, and 
queries upon this mode, 293; a clew to an ac- 
count of Mr. Whiddon’s mode of cultivating 
asparagus not forced, 177; a mention of fine 
specimens of the Gravesend asparagus, 612. 

Auriculas, the best treatise upon, enquired for, 
296. 

Australia, notices relative to, 56. 

Azalea: facts on the azaleas cultivated and ori- 
ginated in the gardens at Highclere, 251. 452; a 
collection of azaleas is cultivated in Waterer’s 
nursery, Knap Hill, where they flourish, 331. 

Bagshot Park, notes on the pleasure-grounds at, 
333, 532. 

Bagshot Park Farm, a notice of some of the prac- 
tices in, 332. 

Balcarres, the seat of Lieut.-Col. James Lindsay, 
notes on the gardens at, 520. 

Balcaskie, the seat of Sir R. Anstruther, Bart., 
notes on the grounds and gardens at, 529. 

Baldon House, notes on, 98. 

Balsam, conditions in the culture of two plants of, 
profuse in, flowers, yet weak in their branches, 
466. 

Barley, the kind of, called the Chevalier, men- 
tions of, 508. 519; of two other kinds of, 508. 

Basildon Park, notes on, 3. 

Bazaar, the, in the Pantheon, Oxford Street, Lon. 
don, a place for the sale of plants in pots, and 
cut flowers, 160. 277. 355. 

Beech, the purple-leafed, seeds of, have produced 
mostly green-leafed plants, 180; Lord Carnar- 
von’s directions for transplanting the beech tree 
at a large size, 249; the dried male catkins of 
the common beech used in the packing of fruit, 
329; other facts on transplanting and pruning 
the beech, 540. 542. 

Belgium ;, notes made during a journey on nur- 


sery business through Belgium and part of 
France, 357. 419, 

Belts of trees upon estates, advice upon planting 
and managing, 543. 

Benham House, notes on, 114, 

Benthamia fragifera, information on, 60. 69. 

Bérberts Aquifdlium Ph., a notice of the charms of, 
166; a query respecting the stoneless berberry, 84, 

Bigndnia venista, a mode of cultivating, which 
induces an abundance of flowers upon, 70; 
B. grandiflora has been propagated from single 
buds, 327; B. capreolita, facts on the culture 
of, 83; B. ophthalmica, a notice of, 453. 

Blenheim, notes on, 99. 

Bones, ground, for manure, directions on prepar- 
ing, 333. 

Borders: a defence of the practice of cropping 
the borders in which wall-fruit trees grow, 141; 
on chambering of borders for fruit trees, 144. 

poe the faculties of mind necessary to form, 
394. 

Brackenridge, Mr., is engaged as gardener to a 
banker in Berlin, 162. 

Broccoli, on propagating the purple, from slips, 42 ; 
fine broccoli, 601. 

Broom, an instance of the spontaneous vegetation 
of, in a wood, after a fire, 81. 

Brusmaneed suavcolens, particulars on a plant of, 


Brussels Botanic Garden, facts on, 444." 

Budding, illustrated descriptions of various modes 
of performing, 304. 

Bulbous plants, suggestions on the culture of, 
220; a mode of applying heat from steam to the 
promotion of the growth of bulbous plants, 297. 

Cabbages, mentions of several, of great weight, 
87. 518. 594; a mention of cabbages from plants 
raised from cuttings, 590. 

Cactez and Cacti, a mode of ingrafting described 
and figured, 312. See Céreus. 

Czsalpinéa Coriaria, or dividivi, a statement of 
the proportion of tanning matter yielded by, 
404; fifty barrels of the ground dividivi have 
been expected in England, 455. 

Calerapels scabra, a notice of a seedling variety of, 
590. 

Calls at Suburban Gardens, 167. 

Calvert’s nursery at Rouen, statements on the 
condition of, 428 ; counter-statements, 574. 

Cambo, Fifeshire, the seat of Sir D. Erskine, 
Bart., notes on the gardens and grounds at, 526, 

Camélléa japénica var. Férd2, a new variety, noe 
ticed, 594. 

Caoutchouc, see Pyroligneous ether. 

Cape of Good Hope, on the government garden 
at the, 55. 

Carrots, a mode of securing a supply of young, 
throughout the year, 44. ; 

Cathartocarpus Fistula, a notice of economical 
properties of the wood and pulp of, 404. 596. 

Cauliflower plants from slips, 407. 

Caversham Park, notes on, 1. 

Cedar of Lebanon, the, is not slow in growth, 
250; facts in the history of some cedars of Le. 
banon at Highclere, 250. 

Cédrus Deodira Rox., desultory information on 
the seeds, seed-cone, and tree of, 278. 452. 517. 
Celery, an enquiry for the best method of preserv- 

ing, through the winter, 577. 

Cemetery, a general, notice of the 
form one at Notting Hill, 160. 

Céreus speciosissimus, a mode of propagating, 389 ; 
modes of cultivating, so as to induce the display 
of numerous fine flowers, 225. 389; can it be 
induced to flower twice a year? how? 5763 a 
notice of a mode of heating by steam for the 
culture of Cactez, 227, 

Chelsea Botanic Garden, notes on the, 280. 

Chenopddium Quinoa, information on its habits 
and uses, and suggestions on cultivating it, 587. 

Cherry tree, the great, at Withermarsh Green, 
the dimensions of, 277; charms of cherry trees 
in flower, 277; a hint on the culture of cherry 
trees, 317; a mention of a cherry tree grafted 
on a laurel plant, 601. 


proposition to 


GENERAL INDEX. 


Chilton Lodge, notes on, 302. 

Chimonénthus fragrans, a mode of cultivating, 
186. 

Chrysanthemum sinénse, varieties of, an instance 
of the ill effect of coal-ashes upon the health of, 
135; queries upon the yellow warratah and the 
yellow Indian chrysanthemum, 83. 

Citron tree,the, in the garden at Coombe Royal, De- 
vonshire, the state and treatment of, 36. 

Claremont, notes on the gardens and grounds at, 
326 


oO . 
Clarence Lodge, and the gardens at, a short notice 
of, 168. 
Clarkéa pulchélla, white-corollaed, 231. 
Clover, see Trifdlium. 
Coal cinders, see Drainage for plants in pots. 
Copbettis gardening, what are the merits of it? 
8 


Cockscomb, dimensions of a monstrous, 518. 

Coffee tree, the, a mention of two plants in a 
bearing state, 607 ; of another, 608. 

Colley, Mr. Thomas, a notice of his return from 
collecting plants in Demerara, 571. 

Colour: an estimate of the relations of certain 
colours, severally, to temperature, in the pris- 
matic spectrum, 269; in flowers, 270; views on 
the influence of colour on heat, the deposition 
of dew, and of odours, 394; suggestions on_ar- 
ranging flowers according to their colours, 82. 

Columbian, see United States. 

Conservatories, a mention of some features in 
some plans of, 277. 

Corrections, 179. 240. 289. 520. 

Covent Garden Market, list of prices of vegetables 

. and fruits in, 85. 191. 243. 297. 354. 409. 467. 522. 
578; a statement of the capacity of certain mea- 
sures of quantity used in this market, 84. 

Cowslip, facts on the, 148. 166. 

Crocuses, on raising them from seeds, 131; is a 
double-flowered crocus known ? 576; a six-sta- 
mened flower of Crocus luteus has been seen, 
576. 

Crops, an investigation of the theory of a neces- 
sity for a rotation of, 12; remarks incident to 
the history of this subject, 240; a mention of 
land in two places, off which many successive 
crops of wheat have been taken, 465. 

Cucumber, the mode of cultivating the, practised 

at Stoke Place, with a ground plan and ele. 

vation of the pits in use there, 386; a mode of 
cultivating the cucumber during the gloomy 
months of winter, 388; a testimony of the ex- 
cellence of Smith’s mode of cultivating the 
cucumber, as this is prescribed in his Tveatzse, 

575; notices pertaining to the culture of the 

cucumber, 152. 443. 455; a mention of a cucum- 

ber 21 in. long, 518. 

Cucurbitaceous plants, a description and a figure 
of a mode of ingrafting, 312. 

Culture, see Physiology. 

Currant, the Zante, is not uniformly seedless, 322 ; 
a reference to a figure of this species, 504. 

Currie, Mr. Samuel, has left England to settle as 
a market-gardener at Washington, 277. 

Cuscuta nepalensis, its habits in Ireland, 62. 

Cyclamen, species and varieties of, desultory in- 
formation on, 186, i187; facts on a fragrant- 
flowered variety of C. pérsicum, 272. i 

Dactylis glomerata, a mention of a pale-panicled 
variety of, 598. 

Dahlia, remarks on the history of the application 
of this name in botany, 607; the names of va- 
rieties of Dahlia deemed excellent at the season 
of flowering in 1833, 151; the names of some 
approved kinds, 611. 

Deitzza scdbra, particulars on, 584. 

Digging, a mention of a machine actuated by 
steam for performing, 95. 3 

Disbudding, the advantages from, instanced, 39.41. 

Dog-kennels, a notice of the structure of certain, 
472, 

Douglas, Mr. David, a notice of some of the re- 
sults of his travels to collect plants, 65, 169. 

Drainage for plants in pots: coal-cinders as the 

% material, 134; living moss as the material, 369. 

Drayton Green, notes on Mrs. Lawrence’s villa at, 
283. 

Dropmore, a query relative to, 277. 

Drummond, Mr., notices of some of the results of 
his travels to collect natural objects, 63, 583, 

East Cliff Lodge, a mention of, 119, 


f 


= 


623 


Edinburgh : notices on the Caledonian Horticul- 
tural Society’s Garden, 62. 396; on the Botanic 
Garden, 62; on other gardens, 519; on Pro- 
fessor Low’s agricultural museum, 62. 

Elcot Park, and the garden at, notes on, 301. 

Elgin, phones of the prospect of a botanic garden 
at, 457. 

Elles, Mr. James, the fact of the death of, anda 
brief biography of, 412, 

Emigration : advice to gardeners and others on 
emigrating to Prince Edward Island, 161. 

Encyclopedia of Gardening, new edition, correc- 
tions to, 73. 289. 

Engine for distributing water in gardens, 162. 

Ericas, Cape, particulars on certain, planted, free, 
in prepared soil, and sheltered with a sashed 
frame, 206 ; an enumeration of the genera which 
Messrs. Don purpose forming out of the old 
genus Zrica, 401. 

Ferns, see Plants. 

Fifeshire, see Scotland. 

Fir, the silver, notes on, 408. 520. 

Floricultural and Botanical Notices of newly in- 
troduced plants, and of plants of interest pre- 
viously in our gardens, supplementary to the 
latest editions of the “¢ Encyclopedia of Plants,” 
and of the ‘* Hortus Britannicus,”’ 63. 169. 237. 
284. 340. 347. 399. 458. 511. 564. 583. 

Florists’ Societies, see Horticultural Societies. 

Flower-garden, see Garden, and see Pleasure- 
ground. 

Flower-painting performed by ladies, a notice of 
rewards for, 573. 

Flowerpot, common, an easy method of orna- 
menting, 321. 

Flowers in the decoration of rooms, devices for 
the disposition of, 590. 592. 594. 596. 600. 604 
—608, 610. 612. See, also, Colours. 

Food, human, of higher price in the country than 
in London, 336. 

Fountains for gardens, hints on the classification 
of, 23; on fountains for the squares of London,74. 

Forster, see Greenhithe. 

Forsyth’s villa, notes on, 119; a query on For- 
syth’s plaster, 296. 

France: notes on the state of the nursery and 
seed business in France, 54. 428, 473. 574. See 

aris. 

Fruit: queries on the extent to which man has 
yet availed himself of artificial aids to the ripen- 
ing of fruit, as walls at various angles of inclin- 
ation, and of different colours, 188; for packing 
ripened fruit, the dried male catkins of the 
beech are very eligible, 329. 

Fruit-gatherer, the, an instrument for use in 
gathering fruit, figured and described, 446. 

Fruiting a second time in 1834, instances of plants 
which are, 519. 

Fruits and fruit trees, remarks on the confusion 
formerly extant in the names of, 316; on nur- 
serymen’s so cultivating fruit trees as to have 
them in a condition for bearing fruit shortly 
after transplantation, 318; a description of a 
mode of packing fruit trees for exportation, 
451; for clews to additional information on fruit 
trees, see Peach tree, Nectarine tree, Wall-fruit 
tree, and Insects. 

Furnace, a smoke-consuming, a notice of Mr. 
Winder’s, 163. 

Furze, the Irish, deemed eligible for culture for 
forage, 395. 

Gama grass, the, a mention of, 570. 

Gardens : 

Gardens generally: the practice of keeping gar- 
dens in a perfect state of order commended, 
572. 

Flower-gardens: strictures on the size and ar- 
rangement of flower-gardens, 372; a deserip- 
tive notice of the garden of the Rev. T. 
Garnier, at Bishopstoke Vicarage, Hampshire, 
and a plan of the garden, in which are shown 
the position of the plants named in the list 
which forms part of the account, 124—131; a 
descriptive notice of the gardens of the Misses 
Garnier, at Wickham, near Fareham, in 
Hampshire, with a monthly calendar of the 
work done, and of the principal flowers pro- 
duced, anda plan of the gardens, in which the 
position of many of the plants is shown, 209 
—220; a design for a flower-garden in the 
Dutch style, 313. 


624 


Fruit-garden: a plan of a garden to be appro- 
priated wholly to fruit trees, fruit shrubs, and 
fruit plants, 224. 

Kitchen-gardens: remarks on the ill effects of 
standard fruit trees in kitchen-gardens, and 
a proposition to lessen it by adopting pendent 
trees with only one shoot, 142; a series of 
plans for laying out kitchen-gardens of various 
dimensions, 259. 313. 373. 429. 484. 538. 

Garden school, a, about to be instituted, 594. 
Gardener’s Magazine, The, announced as a 
monthly publication, 179. 
~ Gardeners: remarks on the importance to gar- 
deners of their visiting gardens managed by 
others, and on the impediment thrown, in some 
cases, in the way of their doing so, 123. 365; 
gardeners who have prescribed, in publications, 
» modes of culture, should also, if these, in the 
end, prove inefficient, publish notices of their 
inefficiency, 179; meeting of market-gardeners, 
regarding the markets of London, 89; on gar- 
deners emigrating, see Emigration ; hints on 
the treatment which a British gardener has re- 
ceived in the south of Russia, 162; tyranny to 
gardeners, 235 ; kindness to gardeners, 236, 
Gardeners’ houses, designs for, 24. 261. 375. 
Garnier, see Gardens. 
Gates : mechanical means of opening gates, with- 
out applying the hand to the gates themselves, 
80. 


Gate-stoppers, remarks on, and a figure of one, 54. 

Gentidna vérna, on cultivating the, 83. 

Georgina, see Dahlia. 

Geography, its relation to the culture of plants, 
noticed, 448. 

Germany : the landscape-gardening of Germany 
compared with that of England, 197 ; the names 
of certain plants, in the garden at Hurlach, 
brought from Mexico, 323; a note on the gar- 
dens of General Vandamme at Cassel, 272. See 
Munich, and see Hertz. 

Ghent, Agricultural and Botanical Society of, 55. 

Gibside, a short notice of the garden and grounds 
at, 564. 

Gladioli, a note on the culture of, 134, 

Glass cases, closed, see Plants. 

Godalming, an allusion to three gardens at, 331. 

Gooseberry, information on the culture of, and 
the fruit of, 42. 96, 518. 

Gorddnia pubéscens and Lasiénthus, a query on 
the culture of, 83. 

Gittingen, information relative to the University 
Botanic Garden at, 169. 

Grafting, various modes of performing, upon her- 
baceous plants, 310; grafting wax, the ingre- 
dients of, 312; opinions on, the effect of the 
stock upon the cion, 406 ; a mode of flute-graft- 
ing practised in India, 442, 

Grangemoor, the seat of the Hon. W. Keith 
Douglas, notes on the gardens at, 528. 

Grape vine: a diary of the course of culture ap- 
plied by Mr. Dowding to the grape vines at 
Oakhill, East Barnet, in Herts, 547; Mr. Dow- 
ding’s mode of planting grape vines for a vinery, 
499; Mr. Mearns’s description of his mode of 
Cultivating the grape vine by means of long 

; Cuttings coiled into pots, 138; an instance of a 
result of Mr. Mearns’s mode, 606; notes on 
grape vines and vineries, 266; the damping or 
premature ‘shriveling of the footstalks of the 
berries and bunches, opinions on the cause of it, 
137. 529; and modes of preventing it proposed, 
137. 529; the fit mode of culture in educing 
grape vines from layers, 318 ; a mode of packing 
grapes intended to be sent to a distance, 84. 242; 
the characteristics of certain rare varieties of 
grape which have been experimentally culti- 
vated in the garden of the Caledonian Horticul- 
tural Society, 397; one of these, named Loudon’s 
seedling, is stated to bear a second crop, which 
property is disputed, 577; the state of the grape 
vines in the colony at Swan River, 56; a notice 
of the method of treating the grape vine at Bom- 
bay, 443; instances of forced grapes early ripe 
in 1834, 235 ; information on a society formed at 
Chichester for encouraging the cultivation of 
the grape vine on open walls, and a notice of 
some Hamburgh grapes produced, 602; in-, 
stances of fine crops or fine bunches of grapes, 
594. 599. 601, 612. 


GENERAL INDEX. 


Greenhithe, notes‘on residences and objects in the 
neighbourhood of, 167; notes on the villa of 
Mr. Forster at Greenhithe, 283 ; on the cottage 
villa of Mr. Wilson at Greenhithe, 283. 

Green-house plants: considerations on the evil 
effects of exposing them to the open air of Bri- 
tain, during the summer months, 31. 

Grottoes, a mention of those at Painshill and 
Ascot Park, 81; a mention of others, 338. 

Gunpowder, the advantage of employing it as a 
means of splitting large roots, 82. 185. 

Hampstead Park, formerly Hampstead Marshal, 
notes on, 115. 

Heartseases, various information on, 6. 181. 335. 
396. 452. 601. 

Heating: modes of heating the atmospheres of 
conservatories, hothouses, &c., 80. 228, 299. 

Heating by circulating hot water: Kewley’s 
mode and the level system deemed preferable 
to other modes, 61 ; an instance of great saving 
in coal from the adoption of the mode of heat- 
ing by the circulation of hot water, at Walling- 
ton, where the level system of circulation has 
been adopted, 395; a notice of an apparatus 
used for circulating hot water for heating, in- 
vented by Mr. J. Darkin, 302; a mention of 
another mode, 600 ; a description of Mr. Major’s 
portable apparatus for heating water and then 
circulating it to heighten temperature in any 
apartment, either horticultural or domestic, 21 ; 
facts in the history of heating hot-houses by 
circulating hot water, 179. 301. 

Heating by steam for horticultural purposes, a 
description of various modes of, 226. 

Hedges, several species of trees or shrubs eligible 
for constituting, named, 185. 188. 332. 

Hedsor churchyard, facts on the arrangement of 
the grave stones in, 290. 

Heracléwm gigantéum, dimensions ofia plant, 453. 

Hertz, Wm., his statement of his prospects and 
intentions in Germany, 158. 

Highclere, notes in‘detail on the gardens, grounds, 
park, and mansion, at, 245. 350. 451. 572. 

Himalaya mountains, information on, and on some 
of the plants of India, 392. 

Hollick, Cornish, see A/llium. 

Holnicote, plants in blossom at, in the winter of 
1833, 453. 

Hop poles and copper wires attached to them, 
queries on, 578. 

Horsechestnut tree, its pubescence, 169; its de- 
corative character, 292. 

Horticultural Society of London, reports of its 
exhibitions and proceedings in Regent Street, 
188. 244. 298. 355. 410. 468. 523. 5793; reports 
on the four exhibitions at the Society’s garden, 
299, 356. 410. 523. 

Horticultural Societies, provincial, notices of 
their exhibitions, — 

Horticultural Societies, England: Barton, 92; 
Bath, royal, 600; Bedale, 610; Bedfordshire, 
589; Berkshire, royal, 589; Beverley, 607; Bir- 
mingham, 91; Brighton and Sussex, 603; Bris- 
tol and Clifton, 596; Buckingham, domestic, 
589; Bury St. Edmunds, 601; Cambridge florists’, 
590; Cambridgeshire, 87, 589 ; Chelmsford and 
Essex, 88 ; Chester florists’, 590; Chichester, 602; 
Cornwall, royal, 87.580; Deritend and Bordesley, 
91; Devon and Exeter, 451. 573. 592 ; Devon and 
Cornwall, royal, 595; Devon, North of, 88. 594; 
Diss, 598 ; Doncaster, 606; Doncaster, Retford, 
and Bawtry, 92; Dorking, 90; Durham, South, 
and Cleveland, 596; Evesham, 605; Finchley 
and North London, 597; Frimley and Farnbo- 
rough, 601; Gainsborough, 607; Glastonbury, 
599; Kackney, 324. 405; Henley, 90. 589; 
Hereford, 596; Hinckley, 597; Holloway, 601 ; 
Holt, 597; Hull, 92; Hull, 608; Huntingdon, 
596; Hindbury, 87 ; Lancaster, 597; Launditch, 
Norfolk, association for promoting industrious 
habits among servants, cottagers, and labourers, 
89; Leeds, 609; Leicester, 88; Lewes and 
East Sussex, 603; Manchester, 597; Melton 
Mowbray, 88; Metropolitan, 235. 323. 396. 516. 
597 ; Newcastle, 90. 599; Newick, 90. 602; 
Northampton, 598 ; Northamptonshire, united, 
598; Norwich, 597, 598; Nottingham, 90 ; 
Oxford, 90; Reading, 589; Ripon, 609; Roch- 
dale, 596 ; Salisbury, 92 ; Sheffield, 92 ; Silwood, 
599; Tamworth, 89; Taunton, 601; Wake. 


GENERAL 


field, 610 ; Warwickshire, 324.360; Whitby, 609; 
Whitehaven, 591; Wiltshire, 605 ; Worcester- 
shire, 605 ; York, 610 ; York florists’, 609; York- 
shire, East Riding, 610 ; Yorkshire, West 
Riding, 608 ; Yorkshire, North Riding, 608. 

Horticultural Societies, Ireland : that of Ireland, 
618; Ballinasloe, 95; Belfast, 620; Connaught, 
95. 619; Cork, county and city, 95; Kilkenny, 
96. 619; Limerick, 620; Meath, 620; Water- 
ford, 620; Wexford, 620. 

Horticultural Societies, Scotland : Caledonian, 94, 
95. 613 ; Collingsburgh, 616; Dumfermline, 94; 
Dumfries and Galloway, 615; Falkirk, 617; 
Glasgow, 94. 616; Kilmarnock, 614; Kirkaldy, 
94. 616; Perth, 95. 504; St. Andrews, 615; 
Stirling, 95. 617. 

Horticultural Societies, Wales: Glamorgan and 
Rae ea 93. 611; Swansea and Neath, 
93. 610. 

Horticultural Societies, the Channel Islands : 
Guernsey, 611; Jersey, 612. 

House, see Gardener’s House. 

Houseman, Mr. James, a notice of the fact of the 
death of, and of the qualities of, 300. 

Houstidnia ceriilea, information on cultivating 
it, 83. 185. 

Hovea Célsi, a fine plant of, 235. 350. 597. 

Hungerford Market, information on, 89. ’ 

Hydrocétyle vulgaris is available to the covering 
of the surface of moist beds of heath mould, 
cupied by shrubs, 331. 

Ice, views on a theory of the formation of 
ground ice, 393. 

Icehouse, one in which ice melts, 294.3 

Ilices, see Oak. b 

Impostor, an, travelling as a commercial florist, 
his tricks of imposition, 56, 455, 456. 

India, a notice of the recent state of farming and 
gardening in, 440; facts and remarks relative 
to the desired institution of a communication 
between India and England by means of steam, 

972; a notice of seeds received from the Calcutta 
botanic garden, of certain Indian plants, 517 ; a 
notice of the importation of trees of tropical 
fruits imported to England from India, 517; 1n 
the Island of Penang, a botanic garden was 
extant from 1822 to 1828, 516; a plant-house 
was built at Calcutta by the Marchioness Has- 
tings, wife of Governor Hastings, for excluding 
heat, that British plants might be cultivated in 
it, 516. 

Insects: improper culture induces disease, and 
disease induces the attacks of insects, 223; the 
mode recommended by Mr. Mearns for freeing 
fruit-trees from insects, 142 ; the composition of 
the wash Mr. Mearns approves, 143; the com- 
position of another wash, 553; a complaint of 
the great difficulty of destroying or of expelling 
the red spider (A’carus telarius), and a state- 
ment of the insufficiency of the application of 
moisture for effecting this purpose, 289 ; a mode 
of destroying the red spider prescribed, 408; a 
query on the effect of adecoction of the flowers 
of chamomile in destroying insects, 182. 

Ireland, a few brief notices on things appertain- 
ing to, 520. 

Iris pérsica, a notice of the fragrance of the 
flowers of, 187. 

Ivy tends to protect the walls covered by it, 
from both rain and heat, 221. note*; ivy is 
thought to grow with superior rapidity and 
vigour in the Isle of Thanet, 120. 

I'xiz, a note on the culture of, 134. 

Jasidne perénnis, an enquiry on the culture of, 83. 

Kennet, Vale of, notes on, 118 

Kensington Gardens, notes on, 234. 277. 

Kerner, Professor, the late, the titles and price of 
some of his works, 322. on 
Kidneybean: notice of a method of expediting 
the fruiting of kidneybeans in the open air, and 
of a mode of obtaining a second crop from those 
forced in the stove, 438; notices of the results 
of treating the scarlet-runner kidneybean as a 
perennial plant, and recommendations of the 

practice of this treatment, 315. 407. _ 

Kirke, Mr.,nurseryman, Coventry,and his nursery 
business, remarks respecting, 165. 574. 

Kitchen-garden, see Garden, Kitchen. 

Labourers, notices of means adopted for improv- 
ing the condition of, at Lindfield, Sussex, 236; 


625 


at Trimley, Surrey, 277 ; mentions of instances 
of the award of prizes to labourers for the merit 
of vegetables, fruit, &c., produced under their 
cultivation, 588. 620; a mention fof instances 
of the award of prizes to labourers for good cha- 
racter, 595; Main’s Catechism of Gardening tor 
labourers or cottagers, noticed, 319, 

Lambton Castle, and the gardens at, notes on, 121, 

Landscape-gardening, a variety of information 
appertaining to, 121. 197. 325. 328, 329. 334—337. 
370. 372. 455. 479. 

Larch tree : remarks on therot in the larch tree, 
with information on the dimensions of the 
layers of woc i produced in the annual growth 
of the larch tree, in a series of years, in connec- 
tion with a statemeént of the quantity of rain 
which fell in each of those years, 544; a few 
particulars relative to these remarks, 507; con- 
siderations on the relative efficiency of bark of 
larch in tanning, and relative price of it, see 
Tanning. 

Lawns, artificial, the names of the kinds of grass 
and clover eligible for constituting, 184. 

Leaves of plants, clews to directions for taking 
impressions from the, 181. 

Lemon tree, the, and lime tree, the, ina garden 
at Coombe Royal, Devonshire, information on 
the state of, and on the treatment of, 36; how 
long will lemon seeds retain their power of ger. 
minating ? and by what means is this best pre. 
served? 84. 

Lime trees (Tilia), the uses to which various 
parts of the, are applicable, 446; a mention of 
a grove of lime trees at Walton, Lady Tanker. 
ville’s, 336. 

Littlecot Park, and the mansion in it, notes on, 
195. 

London, a speculation on the future extent of, 


INDEX. 


Lubinza atropurpirea, its flowers, magnified, are 
very beautiful, 460. 

Lumley Castle, notes on, 196. 

Maclira aurantiaca, information on, 61. J 

Magndléa conspicua, Messrs. Chandler possess a 
large stock of plants of, 166. 

Maize, or Indian corn, a notice of a mode of cul- 
tivating for use as an edible vegetable, and of 
the mode of using it, 338; a head ef Baron 
Louis’s variety of maize has contained 360 
grains, 612. 

Malaria, views on the cause’of, 450. 

Mango, information on the, 443. 466. 577. 

Manure may be considered as the food of plants, 
and lime and salts as the correctives of that 
food, 499 ; manures of several kinds, a notice 
of the effect of each upon the crop of vegetables 
which it contributed to sustain, 182; the effi- 
ciency of green vegetables as manure, in- 
stanced, 184; information on the agency of 
manure from seaweed in promoting the growth 
of various vegetables, 42; a notice of the con- 
sequences, to fruit trees trained to walls, of the 
action of manure upon them, 265. 

Masses, strictures on disposing of plants in, 263. 

Melianthus major, a fine plant of, 592. 

Melon, modes of cultivating the, 227. 312. 443. 
582. 550. 572. 

Metropolitan Gardeners’ Society and Benevolent 
Fund, strictures on a scheme for a, 150. 

Metropolitan Society of Florists and Amateurs, a 
notification of some of the objects of the, 89; 
reports of the Society’s exhibitions of floricul- 
tural productions, 235. 323, 516. : 

Michael’s Mount, St., Cornwall, facts on the his« 
tory and natural history of, 351. 

Mignonette, on cultivating the, into a tree, 83. 

Mongewell, notes on, 4. So Nes 

Mole, a mode of catching the, 163; modes of 
poisoning the, 234, 445. 

Moss: the mode and results of employing living 
moss as the material of drainage to plants in 
pots, 369; on employing it for this purpose, 
living or dead, 572 ; plants will grow in moss as 
soil, 369, 572. 

Moss-house in the flower-garden at Bagshot Park, 
an illustrated description of, 532. 

Mulberry, the many-stemmed, has leaves more 
numerous and nutritive than those of other 
kinds, 272, 

Munich, information of improvements effected, or 


626 


to be effected, for the public good at, 157 ; notice 
| of the shows of the Agricultural Society at, 158 ; 
notice of the English garden at, and of the 

: monarch’s intention to erect a temple in it, 158 ; 
facts in the history of heating at Munich, by the 
circulating of hot water, 180. 

Mushroom: a description of the method of cul- 
tivating the mushroom practised at Stoke Place, 
with a plan of the mushroom-house there, 554 ; 
views and practices relative to the culture of 
mushrooms, 320; a testimony of the excellence 
of Smith’s mode of cultivating the mushroom, 
as this is prescribed in his Treatise, 575. 

Nectarine tree, a description of an apparatus of 
curtains and frames for sheltering the, from the 
opening of its first flowers to the middle or end 
of May, 552; seven kinds of nectarine have 
been raised from seeds at Cambo, 527. For clews 
to additional information applicable to the nec- 
tarine tree, see Peach tree ; and see Insects. 

Neliimbium specidsum, white-corollaed, facts on 
the, 278; a notice of receiving seeds of the red- 
corollaed, 452. 

Nets, a notice of means of promoting the duration 
of, 353. 

Nisbet, Mr. James, the fact of the death of, anda 
brief biography of, 468. 

Nuneham Courtenay, notes on, 97. 

Nurseries jin Belgium and part of France, see 
Belgium, and see France. 

Nurseries, Provincial, notes on: Addlestone, Mr. 
Cree, 334; Bagshot, Mr. Waterer, 332; Co- 
ventry, that of the late Mr. Weare’s successors, 
165. 574; and that of Mr. Kirke, 165. 574; 
Goldworth, Mr. Donald, 330; Knap Hill, Mr. 
Waterer, 331; Milford, Messrs. W. Young and 

i G. Penny, 165. 236. 331. 462; Ramsgate, Mr. 
Fraser, 120. 

Nurseries, suburban, notes on: “Chandler and 
Sons’, 279; Colvill’s, 279; Cormack and Son’s, 
167. 192; Dennis’s, 281; Fulham, the, 168; 
Groom’s, 279; Knight’s, 167. 280; Lee’s, 168. 

Nurserymen, facts and views relative to the pre- 
sent condition of the interests of, 258. 318. 350. 
520; remarks on the relations of nurserymen’s 
interests, positive and negative, to the price and 
condition of the articles they have for sale, 318. 

Oak tree: remarks on the leafing of oak trees, 
and the tints of the early foliage of, 200; a no- 
tice and remarks on the excess in proportion 
which the roots of seedling oak trees bear to 
their branches, 439; are the roots of decayed 
oak trees injurious to other trees planted in the 
same soil? 296; the planting of young oak trees 

{ a year or two before the trees of another kind 
intended to nurse them, suggested, 295; re- 

| marks upon this subject, 405, 465 ; a notice of the 
advantage of cutting off young oak plants close 
to the ground, two or more years after they are 
planted, 465.475; the heads of oak trees, in spe- 
cified places, have their branches but little ex- 
tended on the south-west side, 241 ; Mr. Munro’s 
detence of his proposed mode of training the 
oak for the production of kneed, or curved, 
timber for naval purposes, 76; this defence 
dissented from by one, 180; the Turkey oak 
(Quércus Cérris) stated to grow faster, and to 

} make a taller and straighter tree, than other 
kinds of oak, 336; information on the charac- 
teristics and properties of the new, evergreen, 
Lucombe’s oak, 185. 296. 452; the numerous 
fine evergreen oaks (Z’lices) at Mamhead, near 
Exeter, 452; the evergreen, available in protect- 
ing other trees to be reared near the coast, 498 ; 
it is available for the constitution of hedges in 
gardens, 188 ; a notice of a specimen of the ses- 
sile-flowered oak, finely in fruit, 572. 

Oat, a species of, devoid of husk, imported from 
Japan, a mention of, 597. 

Oatlands, a mention of, 335, 

Odours of flowers, observations on, 187. 

Onion, modes of cultivating the, 77. 268; a men- 
tion of the weight of certain fifty onions, 612; a 
mention of extraordinarily fine onions, 59+. 

Orange trees, the, in the garden at Coombe Royal, 
Devonshire, information on the state of, and 
the treatment of, 36; a figure and a description 
of a machine for removing orange trees, &c., 
growing in large tubs or boxes, 136. 

Orchard in pots, and irections for forming, 317. 


GENERAL 


INDEX. 


Orchideous plants, information on, 165. 396. 444. 
514. 571. : 
Oxalic acid, facts on its agency in accelerating 

the germination of seeds, 368. 

O’xalis crenata Jacquin, information on, 60. 66. 
271. 453. 580. 603. 606. 

Oxford, notes on the building, college-gardens, 
&c., at, 104; on Tage’s Paradise Nursery at, 
107. 289; on Penson’s Nursery at, 108; on 
Bates’s Nursery at, 108; on Fairbairn’s nursery 
at, 108; on Humphrys’s Nursery near, 109; on 
Jeffery’s Nursery at, 109; on the botanic garden 
at, 110. 165. 273. 289. 

Oxford Botanical and Natural History Society, 
the scope of the, 271. 

Packing, the, of fruit trees, plants, and fruits, to 
be sent to distant places, modes of performing: 
to fruit trees, 451; plants, 208, 451; fruits, 84, 
and, for:the notice of using the dried male catkins 
of the beech as package for them, 329. 

Paint, a, which combines colour with durability, 
the constituents of, asked, 353. 

Palmer, Horsley, Esq., a notice of his villa at 
Parsons Green, Fulham, 168. 

Papyrus of the ancients, some of the uses to which 
it was applied, 390. 

Paris, facts appertaining to the practice of hor- 
ticulture in the neighbourhood of, 157; anotice 
of a public exhibition of flowering plants in 
Paris, on March 2. 1834, 322; the mildness of 
the winter of 1833-4 in the neighbourhood of 
Paris, instanced by the state of certain plants, 
157. 

Parsnep, a, 21 in. in circumference, 612. 

Passifldra [? Cockbirnz], a description of, 573; 
P. edilis was flowering upon a wall in Ireland 
in Nov. 1832, 62. 

Peach tree: a review of certain not unusual prac- 
tices in the culture of fruit trees against walls, 
to the end of showing the unfitness and incon- 
sistency of them, 264; a description of a prac- 
tised mode of training, illustrated by a sketch, 
and treating the peach tree and nectarine tree, 
which has been found inductive of fine crops of 
fruit and a healthy state of the trees, 37; a no- 
tice of certain conditions of soil and culture in 
which the peach tree has thriven satisfactorily, 
222; notes on the culture of peach trees at 
Montreuil, 11; a description of the structure of 
an apparatus of curtains and frames applied in 
one instance, and with effect, to the shelter of 
peach trees and nectarine trees, from the time 
of the opening of the first flowers to the middle 
or end of May, 552; a notice of some of the 
properties of the Bellegarde, or Galande, peach, 
518; a mode of packing peaches to send to a 
distance, 84. For some notice of insects’ in- 
juries to the peach tree, and of modes of miti- 
gating them, see Insects. 

Peach house, a short notice of a costly, recently 
erected for Lord Yarborough, at Brocklesby, in 
Lincolnshire, 395. 

Pear tree: the lessening the number of the 

flowers of pear trees, either before or after their 

expansion, advised, to the end of increasing the 
likelihood of fruit being produced from those 
which are left ; a notice of modes of lessening 
the number of flowers, 40; remarks on the 
desirableness of a discovery of a mode of so 
treating young pear trees in nurseries as to have 
them ready to bear a crop of fruit shortly after 
transplanting them from nurseries, 318 ; certain 
kinds of Flemish and other new kinds of pears 
recommended, and a mode of cultivating them 
advised, 516 ; a notice of the practice and the 
effects of ingrafting cions of pear trees upon the 
extremities of the shoots of old pear trees 
trained on walls, 61; the characteristics of the 

Saracen pear, 61; some particulars on the Uve. 

dale’s St. Germain pear, 61 ; a statement of the 

weight of certain pears produced in Guernsey, 

612; Haydon’s seedling, 236 ; the beurré rance is 

a misnomer for the beurré de Rans, a reason 

shown, 157; cions offered for sale of the most 

esteemed varieties of pear, 235; the names of 
certain varieties of pear of which trees have been 

received from Boston, United States, 451, 

Pelargoniums planted in moss, only, have grown 
successfully, 572; frozen pelargoniums, 296. ~ 

Perth, see Agricultural objects. 


GENERAL 


Petinia Willmoredna, one, thus named, stated to 

+ bea hybrid, and partly characterised, 603. 

Pheasant, the plantations made for the shelter of 
the, and of other game, should also afford them 
food; a notice of kinds of trees, shrubs, and 
plants which would, 432. 

Physiology of plants: a notice of the subjects em- 
braced in this science, and information upon 
some of them, 269; arguments in relation to 
the question, Do roots absorb the material of 
sap from the soil by means of their spongioles 
only, or by their whole surface? 295. 4623; the 
spongioles of plants excrete fecal matter, and 
this necessitates a rotation of crops, 12; a state- 
ment of the effect of the action of tannin and 
some other substances upon the roots of plants, 
516; certain species of plants found of a feeble 
habit of growth under culture, have been in- 
vigorated by watering them with a decoction of 
the herbage of kindred species of a freer habit 
of growth, 347. See, also, Manure. Subjects re- 
ferable to physiology, 140, 141. 539; the property 
of drooping in the drooping ash is not here- 
ditary, 408; views on the effect of the stock 
upon the cion, 406. 

Piermont House, or Broadstairs, notes on, 119. 

Pigsties, a contrivance for preventing sows crush- 
ing their pigs in, 332. 

Pine-apple plant, a description of a mode of heat- 
ing pits by steam to facilitate the cultivation of 
the, 226 ; increase of size in the fruit of the pine- 
apple by supplying extra water and heat, 296; a 
notice of pine-apples ripe on March 28. 1834, 235 ; 
a mention of a pine-apple in weight 52 Ib., 610; 
of another, 81b. 3 oz., 610; some notice of two 
pine-apples off seedling plants, 599. 

Pinus, information on species of, 155. 353. 517. 588. 

Pitmilly, Lord, garden and grounds of, 525. 

Planting and plantations: on adopting a regular 
plan in forming plantations, with a view to 
facilitating their after management, 26; the 
desirableness and the mode of so forming 
and rearing plantations as to cause them to 
contribute an agreeable effect in scenery, as 
as well as the effects of shelter and profit, 202; 
the thinning and pruning of plantations and 

; belts enforced, by a notice of the ill effects of 

omitting to do these, and by other remarks, 291, 

292. 543; remarks condemnatory of planting in 

what is termed a “‘ cheap”? manner, 292; direc- 

tions for forming and rearing plantations near 
the sea, 495; see also Arboriculture, Oak, and 

Belts: excellent suggestions on the mode of 

planting shrubberies, and on the mode of plant- 

ing for purposes of decoration generally, 479 ; 

strictures on disposing plants in masses, 263. 

Plants: the mode and results of cultivating cer- 

,. tain species of ferns and other plants in closed 
glass cases in the midst of the smoke of London, 
207; the same mode might be advantageously 
applied to the importation of plants from dis- 
tant regions, 209; a mode of protecting alpine 
plants through the winter, 133; the names of 
plants and shrubs in flower on Nov. 15. 1833, at 
Easthwaite Lodge, Lancashire, 60; the names 
of certain plants in flower on Jan. 31. 1834, at 
Shortgrove, in Essex, 165; the names of others 
im flower early in December, 1833, in Suffolk, 
Kent, and Warwickshire, 165, 166; the names 
of certain plants which flourished through part 
of the winter about Paris, 157; instances of 
plants flowering a second time in 1834. 519; a 
list of selected kinds of shrubs and plants cul- 
tivated in the garden at Bishopstoke Vicarage, 
125—127. 130, 131; a query on variegated-leated 

{ plants, 80; information on them, 184; certain 
species of plants whose leaves will strike root, 
80; an enquiry on the temperature of the in- 
terior of the stems of plants, 181. . 

Plumbago vdsea, a query on, 296. 

Plum tree, the, a hint on the culture of, 317. 

Pda nemorilis, a notice of a variety of the, 398. 

Poplar, the Canadian, eligible for the constituting 
of hedges; the Turin, eligible for planting 
closely in lines to shade and shelter plants in 
nurseries, 185. ; 

Potato, information appertaining to the culture 
of, 78. 157. 290. 433. 435. 437. 499. 506. 575. 

Prince Edward Island, see Emigration. 

Privet, common, uses of various parts of, 445 ; 


INDEX. 627 
the evergreen privet is fit for supplying shelter 
and food for game, 432. 

Pruning: in transplanting trees, and large 
shrubs, should not the branches be reduced 
relatively to the roots? in what proportion ? 
Arguments, queries, and facts, upon these 
questions, 539 ; the effect of pruning of trees for 
timber upon the quantity and quality of their 
timber, 542 ; the effects in the timber of the 
Abiétine (fir, pine, larch, &c.), both of pruning 
the growing trees, and of leaving them un- 
pruned, 293 ; see, besides, Arboriculture. 

Pubescence upon plants, the quantity of, is in 
some degree determined by the conditions of the 
atmosphere, 169. 

Pyroligneous ether, facts on, and remarks re. 
lative to the dissolution of caoutchouc, 241. 

Py¥rus crenata D. Don, information on, 169. 

Quex, near Ramsgate, notes on, 119. 

Ranunculus, Asiatic, hints on the culture of, 
181. 604; a flower of, 4in. over, 599, 600. 

Ravensworth Castle, the park and garden, 363.) | 

Reading, on the enjoyment derivable from, 53. 

Rhododendrons and other American plants, a 
notice of certain conditions in connection with 
which they have grown and flowered very satis. 
factorily, 33. 337. note*; facts on the rhododen- 
drons cuitivated and originated in the gardens at 
Highclere, 251. 452; notices of seedling varieties 
of rhododendron, 593. 603. 

Roads, public, are susceptible of much increase 
of interest to the traveller ; modes of producing 
this interest suggested, 336; Parnell’s:Telford’s 
Treatise on Roads, recommended, 319. 

Ronalds, Mr. Hugh, the fact of the death of, 96. 

Roots of plants, do they absorb from the soil the 
material of sap by their whole surface, or by the 
spongioles at their extremities only ? 295; facts 
in relation to the position that the root is never 
wholly denuded of its fibrils or spongioles, ‘as 
the branches are denuded of their leaves, 568 ; 
a statement of the'effects of the action of tannin 
and other substances upon the roots of plants, 
516; remarks on the relation of proportion 
borne by the roots of a tree to its branches, 439, 

Rose plants, hints on the culture of, 131; on 
forming pillars of roses, 152; on the best stocks 
for, 132 ; Rivers’s classification of roses, and 
his remarks on the properties and habits of many - 
of them, 509; Mr. Woad’s collection of roses, 51 ; 
the Village Maid rose, 458; kinds of rose which 
constitute a lovely hedge of roses, 186. 453; an 
enquiry and information on the grafting and bud. 
ding of rose plants, 83 ; notices of the caterpillar 
which ravages the buds of flowers of roses, 213. 
and note *; notes on other insects which attack 
the foliage of rose plants, 186. 

Russia, notices to gardeners emigrating to, 162. 

Rustic-work, wooden, in application to the deco- 
ration of gardens, 485. 

Sap of plants, see Physiology. 

Schizanthus, white-corollaed, a mention of, 131. 

Scotland: observations made during a horticul. 
tural tour through the eastern part_of the county 
of Fife, 525; notice of damage done by wind 
to certain plantations in the western counties of 
Scotland, 62. 

Sea kale, a mode of cultivating, practised by the 
Bath gardeners, 45. 

Seeds, a notice of modes of preserving, 442; the 
insufficiency of the modes applied by Dr. Wal- 
lich to seeds of Abiétine, 278. 452; an inci- 
dental notice of means of promoting the ger- 
mination of unpromising seeds, 453. 

Shaddock, information on the, 466. 576. 

Sherare, Mr., the fact of the death of, 96. 

Sheffield Botanical and Horticultural Garden, 
the, suggestions on the election of a curator 
of, 59; Mr. Robert Marnock has been elected 
the curator of, 235 ; notices on three plans for 
laying out the ground engaged for the garden, 
Mr. Marnock’s, 276; Mr. Taylor’s, 276; Mr. 
Billinton’s, 395. 

Shrubbery, excellent suggestions on the selection 
of shrubs for, and on the mode of disposing 
them, 479. 

Shrubs: remarks on the unfitness of the kinds of 
trees and shrubs found planted in small plots 
of pleasure-ground, in many instances, for such 
plots, 477, See, also, Plants. 


628 


Sicily, information on the classical plants of, 391. 

Sinclair, Mr. George, F.L.S. F.H.S., author of 
Hortus GramineusWoburnensis, the fact of the 
death of, and traits in the character of, 192. 

Slate employed in forming several of the fixtures 
of a house, 471. ‘ 

Slugs and snails are prevented by lime, 123, and 
by soot, 186, from eating of the objects sur- 
rounded by these. 

Soils, their influence upon the plants transplanted 
into them, 541; remarks relative to the analys- 

_ ing of soils, 74. 

Spongioles, see Physiology. : 

Stamford Hill Horticultural Reading Society, the, 
its objects, 160. 

Stems of plants, query on the temperature of the 
interior of the, 181. 

Sterciilia alata, information on, 517. 

Strathtyrum, the seat of Mrs. Cheape, notes on 
the gardens at, 531. 

Strawberry, information on the, 397. 590; a mode 
of packing strawberries to send to a distance, 84. 

Summer, the prolonged, of 1834, a notice of the 
effects of, 573. 

Tala plant, the, used to form hedges in Buenos 
Ayres, identified with Coultéréa horrida K7h. ,466. 

Tacsinia, a species’ of, comparatively hardy, 452 ; 

» the charms of 7. pinnatistipula, 342. 

Tally: figures of earthenware tallies, of new 
forms, 164; a description of them, 163. 165; an 
opinion on modes of inscribing tallies, 157. 

Tanning : the proportion of tanning matter con- 
tained in substances experimented upon, 404 ; 
the use of larch bark in tanning, and on its 
value of price, 290. 466 ; the leaves of the privet 
have a tanning property, 445. 

Tea, the meaning of the names of certain kinds 
of, 321. 

Telfair, Mr., the fact of his death noticed, 63. 

Temperature: considerations on the scientific 
management of hot-houses relative to the regu- 
lation of temperature, 18. On temperature, see, 
also, Colour. Questions on the temperature of 
the interior of the stems of plants, 181. 

Thanet, Isle of, the state of gardening in, 119. 

Tidworth, notes on, 470. ~ 

Tobacco, information ‘on cultivating and prepar- 
ing the Sheeraz tobacco, 500 ; details on a course 
of cultivating and curing tobacco for horticul- 
tural purposes, 501; the cultivation of tobacco 
in Ireland is discontinued, 575. 

Tomato: a notice of a simple mode of preserving 
the fruit, 445 ; a notice of a mode of ingrafting 
a branch of the tomato plant upon the stem of 
the potato, 312. 

Toronto Horticultural Society, 571. 

Tottenham Park, and the gardens, grounds, and 
mansion at, 413. 

Tottenham Park Wharf, notes on, 469. 

Tour : notes on objects observed in a tour, by 

_ the Conductor, through part of Middlesex, 
Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire, Berkshire, 
Wiltshire, Dorsetshire, Hampshire, Sussex, and 
Kent, 1. 97. 245. 301. 413. 469. 

Trained trees: instructions for estimating the re- 
lative superiority of condition in trained trees, 
318. 

Training: the ends and objects of training in 
fruit trees, and the mode of performing it, 265; 
of some modes of training wall-fruit trees, prac- 
tised in the gardens of Hopetoun House, 267); 
queries on the effect of training the branches of 
espalier trees downwards, 242; training trees on 
trelliswork over the principal walks of a gar- 
den, 242; a description of a construction of 
rails adapted to the purposes of training, 334. 

Transplanting: transplanting plants is much in- 
fluenced by the nature of the soil, 541 ; should 
not branches be reduced relatively to roots? in 
what proportion ? 539. 


GENERAL INDEX. 


Trees, see Arboriculture, Landscape-gardening, 
Physiology, Pruning, Transplanting. 

Trichontma (J’xia) Bulbocddium grows wild in 

* Devonshire, 593. 

Trifolium incarnatum, the scarlet-corollaed cloe 
ver, facts on the culture of, 332, 

Tulips, hints on the culture of, 180. 

Turnip, the qualities of Dale’s hybrid, 6; the 
weight of produce of it, 505; a fact in the his- 
tory of cultivating the turnip in fields, 290. 
note *; conditions under which crops of plants 
of turnip have been, and have not been, ravaged 

f by the beetle, 78. 154. 

Tyso, Rev. J., notes on the garden of, 5. 

United States of America: facts relative to the 
state of horticulture and architecture in the 
United States, 570; a magazine of gardening 
and botany has recently appeared in Baltimore, 
570; effects of intemperance on a gardener who 
had emigrated to, 571; a notice of the Colum- 
bian Horticultural Society’s first annual’ exhi- 
bition of plants and fruits, 569. 

Van Diemen’s Land, notices relative to, 273. 457. 

Variegated leaves, how are they produced ? what 
would be the effect of variegated-leafed plants 
in ornamental scenery ? 80; an answer to the 
latter question, 184, 

Vases: strictures on the employment of vases as 
receptacles for plants in town gardens, with 
some remarks on their use in garden scenery in 
the country, 489; plinths indispensable to vases 
placed on the ground, 326. 

| Vegetable products, of certain kinds named, in 
p.353., which yields the greatest quantity of 
food for live stock? 353. 

Verbascum, a, with a stem 12 ft. high, 453. 

Vicia tricolor as a forage plant, 338. 

Wakefield Subscription Botanic Garden, the, 324. 

Walnut tree, Mr Knight’s method of ingrafting 
the, 503; the uses of the walnut tree of Cash- 
mere, 442. 

Walls: a notice of the effect in temperature of 
the action of the sun’s rays upon walls con= 
structed at different angles in relation to the 
horizon, and of different materials, 396 ; the re- 
sults in temperature of white walls and black 
walls, 445; the names of several kinds of walls 
of cheap cost, 470; walls, as boundary fences to 
fields, are preferred in Fifeshire to hedges, 525. 

Walks: an instance of the employment of Fin- 
layson’s harrow to stir the gravel in a broad 
walk, 277. 

Wallingford, notes on gardens in, 5. 

Walton, the residence of Lady Tankerville, notes 
on the gardens at, 335. 

Wasps. remarks enjoining the importance of the 
destruction of, in early spring, 193. 

West Indies, information on some of the fruits of 
the, 576, 577. : 

Wheat, the Victoria, information on, 454. 457 ; it 
is a bearded wheat, 595; on other varieties of 
wheat, 155. 465. 519. 

White Hill, notes on, 195. 

Wicken; tree is the Pyrus aucupiaria, 185. 296. 

Willow, the species of, of the wood of which the 
yun make hoops, is probably Salix triandra, 

Or 

Wilson, see Greenhithe. 

Wimbledon House, park and gardens, 337. 

Wireworm, the, queries respecting, 295. 

Woburn Farm residence, notes on the condition 
of the ornamental plantations about, 334. 

Woodhall Gardens, Renfrewshire, accommodation 
for the young gardeners at, 236. 

Worms, a mode of destroying, 123. 

Yew tree, should its berries be interred for a year 
before sowing ? 84. 

Yucca starch, information on, 454. 

Zoological Gardens, Regent’s Park, 235 ; the 
Surrey, notes on, 279, 516. 597. 2 


END OF THE TENTH VOLUME, 


Lonpon : 


Printed by A. 


SPOTTISWOODE, 


New-Street-Square. 


UTION LIBRARIES 


ain 


52 


wt 


