THE 


GARDENERS MAGAZINE, 


CONDUCTED 


By J.C. LOUDON, F.L.S. H.S. &c. 


AUTHOR OF THE ENCYCLOPEDIAS OF GARDENING, OF AGRICULTURE, AND OF COTTAGE, FARM, 
AND VILLA ARCHITECTURE, AND EDITOR OF THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PLANTS. 


LONDON: 


PRINTED FOR 
LONGMAN, REES, ORME, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMAN, 
PATERNOSTER=ROW. 


1833. 


é 


25 


CORRECTIONS. 


Besides those indicated in p, 242. 368, 491. the 
following are necessary:—In p. 18. 43., and 
elsewhere, omit the word ‘‘ junior’’ from the 
name of Robert Mallet, Esq. 

In p. 266. line 10. from the bottom, for * M. 

Zeiher,”’ read ** M Held.” 

In_p. 300. lines 29, and 30. for ‘‘ composition. 

They,” read ‘‘ composition, they.” 

In p. 483. line 18, from the bottom, for ‘ Plais- 
tow, Essex,” read “ Plaistow, Kent.” 


In p. 506. line 18. from the bottom, for “‘ cor- 
nicina,” read ‘‘cornicina ;”’ the epithet com- 
pares the sound emitted by the Tipula to the 
sound produced by blowing a horn. 

In p. 578. line 11, for ‘* you,” read ‘* he.” 

In p. 587. line 8. from the bottom, omit the word 
“if; in line 5. from the bottom, for “‘ not 
necessary,” read “ not so necessary.” 

In p. 634. line 4, from the bottom, for “ El/sha- 
mensis,” read ‘* Elihamensis.” 


LONDON : 


Printed by A. SporriswooDE, 
New-Street-Square. 


PREFACE. 


Tuts Ninth Volume of the Gardener's Magazine being the con- 

cluding one of what may be called the First Series (because the 

price, in future, will be reduced from 3s. 6d. to 2s. 6d. a Number), 

we embrace the opportunity of taking a slight retrospective glance 

at the work from its commencement, in order that we may notice, 

45 succession, what may be called the leading features of each 
olume. 


The First Volume, that for 1826, contains an enumeration of all, and an account 
of most, of the European and American Works on Gardening, Agriculture, 
Botany, &c., which had been published between the date of the second edition ‘of the 
Encyclopedia of Gardening, in April, 1824, and the date of the commencement of 
the Magazine. _ It also contains notices of the State of Gardening in every part of 
the world, supplementary to the historical and statistical parts of the second 
edition of the Encyclopedia referred to, with numerous corrections for that work 
generally. 


The Second Volume, that for 1827, is characterised by a comprehensive List of 
Works suitable for a Garden Library, with hints on the necessity of a superior 
School Education for Gardeners (a subject enforced in the introduction to the First 
Volume, p. 8. and 9.) ; and by various papers on the importance of books, as 
sources of professional information. 


The Third Volume, that for 1827-28, contains the history of Heating by Hot 
Water, including a number of interesting details on the subject, not to be found 
in any other work. 


The Fourth Volume, that for 1828, contains additional important matter on 
Heating by Hot Water, and part of our Tour in France and Germany, with very 
interesting information respecting the state of education among the gardeners and 
agricultural labourers of the latter country. 


The Fifth Volume, that for 1829, is characterised by anumber of papers, having 
for their object the promotion of Gardening Comforts among the Labouring 
Population, and by various articles on Domestic Improvement, including one on 
National Education, entitled ‘‘ Parochial Institutions.” 


The Sixth Volume, that for 1830, contains three valuable Essays on Cottage 
Gardening (of which several thousands have been printed apart, and sold at cost 
price), with some important papers on other departments of Rural, Domestic, and 
Civil Economy ; all tending to the improvement of the labouring classes, and 
more especially of Gardeners. This Sixth Volume also contains the evidence 
relating to the ruinous management of the affairs of the Horticultural Society, 
which led to the reform of that body. 


The Seventh Volume, that for 1831, contains anew modification of the Lists of 
Plants supplementary to those in our Hortus Britannicus; a table of plants for 
producing a Representative System of the whole Vegetable Kingdom in a small 
garden; the continuation of our Tour in France (portions of which appeared 
also in the Fifth and Sixth Volumes), and the commencement of a Tour in the 
north of England and in Scotland. This Volume also contains a great accumu- 
lation of valuable matter on the subject of Heating by Hot Water. 


In the Eighth Volume, that for 1832, the supplementary Lists of Plants will be 
found to have assumed a still more perfect form than before, in consequence of 
improvements which suggested themselves, when completing the First Additional 


A 2 


iv PREFACE. 


Supplement to our Hortus Britannicus ; and in this form we mean to continue 
these listsin future. Our Gardening Tour on the Continent is continued in this 
Volume, as is also our Tour in the north of England and west of Scotland. 


The Ninth Volume, that for 1833 (just completed), contains accounts of some of 
the finest Gardens of France, Bavaria, and Baden; some valuable papers on 
Arboriculture and Landscape-Gardening ; part of our Tour in the west and south 
of England; Mr. Mallet’s Tour on the Continent ; the modes of Heating by 
Hot Water or other fluids, of Perkins, Weekes, Holmes, Ure, Kewley, and others ; 
and several yery interesting papers on Vegetable Physiology. 

In the aboye rapid glance, we haye only noticed one or two subjects in each 
Volume, as features by which to characterise it; but, viewing the series of 
volumes as a whole, they will be found to contain all the accessions that have 
been made to the Science and Practice of Gardening throughout the temperate 
regions of both hemispheres, and more especially in Britain, since the commence- 
ment of the Magazine, in January, 1826. The facts and reasonings contained in 
these volumes are the more valuable, from having stood the test of retrospective 
criticism from their various readers and contributors. The liability to this test 
renders statements communicated to the public through a scientific periodical, of 
much greater value than such as are published in a work which, from its plan, 
admits of no discussion. The Gardener’s Magazine has been from its commence- 
ment, and will continue to be, open to the most rigid criticism of whatever 
appears in it, whether by Contributors or the Conductor ; the only condition being, 
that such criticism shall be concise, and in language free from personal abuse. 


With the Tenth Volume, that for 1834, will commence a reduction 
of the price of the Gardener’s Magazine to 2s. 6d. a Number, or 15s. 
for the Annual Volume: a reduction which has been made in 
compliance with the suggestions of various Gardeners, and in con- 
formity with the spirit of the times. In this New Series, as it may 
be considered, so bulky an annual volume will not be produced ; 
but the size of the page will be increased, so as to enable us to 
insert a nearly equal quantity of matter; and, what will be of great 
advantage to young gardeners, to enlarge the size of the engravings, 
more especially when these contain plans of gardens, or of pleasure- 
grounds. 

We are happy to state, that, notwithstanding the publication ot 
no fewer than six Gardener’s Magazines in England, besides one in 
Ireland, since this (the first Gardener’s Magazine which ever ap- 
peared in the English language) was commenced, the contributors 
to our work, so far from falling off, either in their numbers or in the 
interest of their communications, have steadily increased in both. 
These circumstances afford a gratifying proof of the widely spread- 
ing taste for our art, and confirm us in the sentiments we have 
expressed in reviewing in this work the first numbers of the different 
periodicals alluded to. 

In returning our Contributors and our Readers our sincere 
thanks, we can assure them that no exertion whatever on our part, 
or on that of the publishers, shall be wanting to insure the con- 
tinuance of this Magazine in the same superior style in which it has 
hitherto been produced; and to render it, in all respects, what it 
originally professed to be, and has hitherto been, a perpetual sup- 
plement to our Encyclopedias of Gardening, of Agriculture, and of 
Plants, and to our Hortus Britannicus. 

J.C. L 
Bayswater, Nov. 20. 1833. 


CONTENTS. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


GENERAL SUBJECT. 


General Results of a Gardening Tour, during 
July, August, and part of September, in the 
Year 1831, from Dumfries, by Kirkcudbright, 


Ayr, and Greenock, to Paisley. By the Con- | 
1 


ductor 5 
Observations on several Gardens in England. 
By Mr. W. Sanders 15 
A Visit to the Gardens of T. “A. Knight, Esq, 
By Mr. John Pearson 17 
Horticultural Jottanda of a recent Continental 
Tour. By Robert Mallet, Jun. Esq. 18. 270 
On the Emigration of Gardeners to the United 
States of America. Ny Benjamin Poore, 
Esq., of New York - 29 
Hints to Gardeners wishing to emigrate to the 
United States of North ANNE, By Mr. G. 
Thorburn - 32 
On heating Hot-houses by hot Water; with 
some Account of a new Mode, the Invention 
of Mr. Weekes. By Mr. Main 34 
A Short Notice of Mr. Busby’s Method a cir- 
culating Water, hot or cold, by the Aid of 
Machinery. By the Conductor - - 38 
Mode of obtaining Uniformity of Temperature, 
and various wulestes of En SONS By Charles 
M. W— - 39 
On a new System of labelling Plants in living 
Collections. By Robert Mallet, Jun. Esq. 43 
Notes and Reflections made during a Tour 
through Part of France and Germany, in the 
Autumn of the Year 1828. By the Conductor 
129, 257. 385 
A few Remarks on the State of Gardening in 
Lower Canada, and particularly in the 
Neighbourhood of Montreal. By A. P. Hart, 
Esq., Barrister at Law, of Montreal, Fellow 
Mont. Nat. Hist. Soc., &c. = - 159 
On the Disabilities experienced by young Gar- 
deners, in acquiring professional and general 
Knowledge. By Scientiz et Justitia Amator 
; 165 
Some of the Disabilities which enthral young 
Gardeners. By Ephebicus Horticuitor 173 
On the Electricity of Nature, and its Connec- 
tion with Magnetism and with the other 
grand Natural Phenomena. By the Author 
of the “ Domestic Gardener’s Manual” 179 
A Reply to Mr. Main’s Question to the Author 
of the ** Domestic Gardener’s Manual.” By 
the Author of the “ Dom. Gard. Man.”’ 186 
Remarks on Mr. Main’s Question to the Au- 
thor of the ‘‘ Domestic Gardener’s Manual.” 
By Joseph Hayward, Esq., Author of the 
*< Science of Horticulture,” &c. - 192 
An Economical Mode of building Garden 


Walls, Sheds, and other Garden and Agri-” 


cultural Structures. By R. Mallet, Esq. 193 
Reply to some Remarks made by Mr. Main 
and the Conductor on Mr. Perkins’s Mode of 
heating by hot Water. ey A.M. Perkins, 
Esq. - ~ 202 
Notice wa Method ‘of neste by the Circula- 
tion of hot Oil, instead of hot Water, for 
which a patent has been taken out by Mr. W. 
D. Holmes; and also of Dr. Ure’s Method of 
employing Muriate of Lime as a Medium for 
communicating Heat. By the Conductor 


207 
On heating by the Circulation of Fluids. By 
Robert Mallet, Esq. - Q77 


Rejoinder to the Answer of the Author of the 
« Domestic Gardener’s Manual,”’ on Ques- 
tions proposed to that Gentleman in Vol. VIII. 

. 652. By Mr. J. Main - = 983 

On the Effects of Terrestrial Radiation on the 
Processes of Vegetation ; and some Account 
of the Chinese Method of propagating Fruit 
Trees. By J. Murray, Esq. = - 287 


Notices of the present State of Gardening in 
Sweden, by Professor Agardh of Lund ; with 
a Plan of the Botanic Garden of Lund, com. 
municated by M. Petersen, of the Royal 
Gardens, Copenhagen - - 415 
Some Account of a Floral Fair held at Mar- 
seilles in January, 1833, with a List of the 
Plants there exhibited for Sale. By Viator 
420 
Observations on several Gardens in Enea! 
By Mr. William SETS Nurseryman, 
Bristol - = 495 
On the Advantages nich pond Faenilt from 
Gardeners not being compelled to work long- 
er on a Saturday than Artisans. By Scientiz 
et Justitize Amator - - 427 
On the Professional and general Improvement 
of Young Gardeners. By A Young Gardener 
432 
On a Method of keeping Food warm, so that a 
working Gardener may lose as little Time as 
possible at Breakfast. By Mr. Peter Mac- 
kenzie, Gardener to EES Lowis, Esq., of 
Wester Plean - = 435 
Notes on the Influence of Climate on Vege- 
tation, taken at a Lecture by Professor Lind- 
ley on that Subject, delivered at the Rooms 
of the Bonen ure! SOPteLy, Mayo. 1833. By 


J. W. L. - 436 
on what is soleertty called Blight on Plants. 
By Mr. James Webb - ~ 441 


Notes on Gardens and Country Seats, visited, 
from July 27. toSeptember 16., during a Tour 
through Part of Middlesex, Berkshire, Buck- 
inghamshire, Oxfordshire, Wiltshire, Dorset- 
shire, Eerste: Sussex, and Kent. By the 
Conductor - 513. 641 

A Reply to Mr. J. “Main’s Rejoinder (p. 283.). 
By the Author of the “ Denese Gardener’s 
Manual’’ - 529 

A Consideration of the Relations of Light to 
the perfect Display of the Beauties of Form 
and of Hue in Plants and in Flowers. By 
Anon. = G > «= 534 

Hints to Gardeners, incentive to their educat- 
ing themselves in a Knowledge of English 
Grammar, and of other Subjects of essen- 
tially useful ESRORMES SS: By Mr. William 
Taylor . - - = 536 


GARDEN ARCHITECTURE. 


Design for a Gardener’s House, to be situated 
on the North Side of a walled Kitchen-Gar- 
den - - 46 

On the Construction of Fountains for Gardens. 
By the Conductor - - 

On Fountains in Gardens ; with a Design. 
W. Mason, Jun. Esq. - 538 

Notice of Saul’s Garden Chair, it Remarks 
on the Principles of Design with reference ta 
Chairs of this Kind. By Mr. M. Saul and 
the Conductor - - - 54) 


ARBORICULTURE. 


Physiological and Practical Remarks on the 
pruning of Forest Trees, particularly of the 
Scotch Pine. By Mr. W. Taylor - 48 

Observations on some of the principal Causes 
why the most important Parts of the Science 
of Arboriculture, pruning and thinning, or 
rather the System to supersede the Necessity 
of much pruning, are not more generally 
known, or at least practised; with Hints for 
the Removal of JUNSSE Causes. By Mr. W, 
Billington ~ 50 

On forming Live Fe ences with Larch Trees. By 
Mr. Gorrie, F. H.S. &ce. - = 59 


vi 


On the Culture of the Orange Tree in England. 
By B.S. . - 67 
Notice of a new Method of transplanting large 
Trees, invented by Mr. James Munro, Ma- 
nager of Messrs. Dickson and Turnbull’s 


Nursery Brechin. By the Conductor « 217 
On Arboriculture in EBOR to Geology. By 
Causidicus = 291 | 


A battering Axe for felling Timber. By Robert 
Mallet, sq. - - - 207 
On the Gymnécladus canadénsis, or Coffee Tree 
of North America. By A. P. Hart, Esq., 
Barrister at Law, of Montreal, Lower Cana. 
da, F. Mont. Nat. Hist. Soc. &e. - - 298 
The Fitness of the Evergreen Oak (Quércus 
Tex) for planting near the Sea Coast, in 
Groups, for Ornament; and a Comparison of 
its Fitness with that of the Cluster Pine 
(Pinus Pinaster), for a Nurse to Plantations 
on the Sea Coast: followed by a Description 
of St. Michael’s Mount, near the Land’s End, 
Cornwall. By Mr. T. Rutger = - 543 
A Notice of the Effects of Wind on Trees grow- 
ing on the Coast near Poole, Dorsetshire. By 
the Rev. W, B. Clarke - - - 547 
The Formation of a National Society for the 
Promotion of Arboriculture suggested; and 
Hints on the Disease prevailing in Plantations 
of the Larch Tree communicated. By Mr. 
James Munro = - 2 - 551 
On training the Oak Tree, so as to mrodtice 
curved Timber, for Use in the Construction 
of Ships. By Mr, James Munro = 557 


FLORICULTURE. 


On laying out Flower-Gardens. By Masaroni 
60 

The Culture and a List of Herbaceous Plants 
which will thrive in the Air and Smoke of 
Cities. By Mr. William Boyce - 62 
On raising Seedling REGGE, By the 
Rey. Joseph Tyso 66 
A new Arrangement of the Doubles omered 
Chinese Chrysanthemums, with an improved 
Method of Cultivation. By A. H. Haworth, 
Esq. F. L. S. &c., Author of ** Synopsis Plan. 
_tarum Succulentarum Narcissinearum Mono- 
raphia,’’ &c. - - 218 
A Mode of multiplying, and inducing to healthy 
Growth, the White double-flowered and 
Purple *double-flowered Rockets, By Mr. 
William Whiddon, Gardener ~ = 300 
On the Effects of Barbadoes Naphtha on Trees 
and on BORE By Dr. Cs H. Wilkinson, 
Bath = = 300 
An mmproredl Mode of tongueing HESTON By 
Mr. James Munro 301 
A Notice of the Species of Eanes added to the 
Pinetum at Dropmore, and of some showy 
Species of flowering Plants which decorate 
the Garden there. By Mr. Philip Frost, 
Head Gardener at Dropmore - - 559 
A Mode of preserving the greatest Number of 
Pelargoniums and other Kinds of Green- 
house Plants through the Winter, in the least 


CONTENTS. 


possible Space. By Mr. Peter Mackenzie, 
Gardener to Robert phowiss ne .» of Wester 
Plean - - = 563 


HORTICULTURE. 


On cultivating the Pine-apple out of Pots. By 
Mr. William Bowers, Gardener to Mrs. Shaw 
Lefevre, Heskfield Place, Hartford Bridge, 
Hampshire - 7 

A Mode of cultivating Grapes and late Peaches, 
By Mr. J. Haythorn, Jate Gardener to Lord 
Middleton, Middleton Hall near Nottingham 

A Description of a Pit suited to the Culture of 
early Cucumbers, and of a Mode of cultivat- 
ing them. By Mr. Edward Elliot are 

On the Pruning and Training of the Morello 
Cherry Tree. By Mr. William Seymour 73 

On the Culture of Onions. By Mr. John 
Mitchell, Jun., Gardener, SETRIOR near Dart- 
mouth, Devon 75 

Remarks on Cobbett’s Indian Corn. By Wil- 
liam Rothwell, Farmer and Nurseryman, 
Spout Bank, near Bury, Lancashire - 76 

On O’xalis crenata Jacquin, as a Culinary 
ore in Britain. By James Mifehel, 


8 

On culuiyanies Gabbages by Slips or Cuttings. 
By Peter Kendall, Esq. - 226 
On pr oducing Mushrooms in plenty in the open 


Air, from June to SIME By Mr, J. 
Elles © - 298 
On cultivating the Pine-apple. “By Mr. Tho- 
mas Appleby - - - 303 


Fertility aiciiced by Spur-pruning. By G. 1. + 


A Proposal to water Peach and Nectarine 
Trees with Nitre, a Preparation from Blood, 
&c. By Joseph Hayward, Esq. - 319 

On the evil Effects of cropping the Borders in 
which Fruit Trees grow. By R.T. - 321 

On the Uselessness of earthing up growing 
Crops of Potatoes. By Joseph Hayward, 
Esq., Author of ‘* The SECA of Horticul- 
ture,” &c. 322 

A Description ofa Mode of editivatine Onions, 
By Mr. William Whiddon - iS 

Notes on Mildew, from a Lecture on that Sub- 
ject by Professor Lindley, delivered at the 
Horticultural Society’s Meets Room, on 
April 24, By J. W. L. - 325 

Additional Facts on the Fungus (ZEcidium 
cancellatum Sowerby) parasitic on the Leaves 
and Fruit of the Pear Trees in the Garden at 
Buscot Park. By Mr. John Merrick - 332 

On Coping for Garden Wels By Mr. Archi- 
bald Gorrie - - - 564 

On the Advantage of marine Pine-apple 
Plants in Pots made with Holes in their 
Sides. By John Hawkins, Esq. = = 564 

The Results of an Instance of growing the 
Cucumber and the Melon in [Heath Mould 
or] Bog Earth. By Mr. James Figgans 567 

Short Communications - 80. 342. 446. 568 


REVIEWS. 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society of 
London. Second Series. Vol. I. Parts I. and 
Il. - 82. 344 

Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural So- 
ciety. Vol. V. Part I. 5 - 89 

Verhandlungen des Vereins zur Beforderung 
des Gartenbaues in den KOniglich Preussi- 
schen Staaten. Transactions of the Society 
for the Advancement of Gardening in the 
Royal Prussian States. Vol. V. - 94. 592 

Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agricul- 
ture, Botany, Rural Architecture, &e. &e. 


lately published, with some Account of those | 


considered the most interesting 349. 447- 
606. 000 

Hortus Woburnensis ; a descriptive Catalogue 
of upwards of Six Thousand Species of orna~ 
mental Plants cultivated in the Gardens at 
Woburn Abbey ; with numerous illustrative 
Plans for the Erection of Houses for Forcing, 
Green-houses, &c., and an Account of the 
Management of them throughout the Year. 
By James Forbes, A.L.S. C.M.H.S. &c., Gar. 
dener to his Grace the Duke of Bedford, 
K.G. - ~ - - - 601 
Literary Notices - 96. 460. 611. 695 


LIST OF ENGRAVINGS. 


Vil 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Domestic Notices e = 97. 230. 462. 613 
Floricultural and Botanical Notices of new 
Plants, and of old Plants of Interest, supple- 
mentary to the latest Editions of the ‘* En- 
cyclopedia of Plants,” and of the Hortus 
Britannicus”? = 104, 235. 363. 483, 616. 000 
Metropolitan Nurseries - - = 99 
Notes on some of the London Nurseries, and on 
the Chiswick Garden . - 232 
Provincial Nurseries - - - 102 
A Selection of the rare and interesting Plants 
which flowered in the Epsom Nursery from 
March to July, 1833 - 489 


Index to Books reviewed and noticed « 


General Index 


Calls at the Loridon Nu 

urban Gardens - - - 467 
Retrospective Criticism 116. 249, 368. 491. 623 
Queries and Answers 122, 243, 375. 500. 627. 719 
Covent Garden Market 126, 246, 380, 511. 634, 


London Horticultural Society and Garden io 
247. 382. 507. 632. 725 
Societies - 248 
Horticultural Societies 


series, and other Sub- 


Provincial Horticultural 
Notices of Provincial 

for 1833 
Obituary - 


2 = 728 
- 128. 256. 384, 519. 635. 751 


752 
753 


LIST OF ENGRAVINGS. 


OBJECTS RELATIVE TO LAND- 
No. SCAPE-GARDENING. Page 


22, 23. La maison du Philosophe - 132, 133 
26. Entrance lodge and iron gates to the 


park of St. Quen, France - - 136 
21. Chateau de Neuviller - - 144 
36. The house of Bel Respiro, France - 151 


37. Wooden bridge in the grounds of Bel 
Respiro « = 5 - 151 
38. Bronze figure, and other objects in 
the garden at Bel Respiro C 
62—69. Fountains for gardens 
120. Fountain of a grand character = 539 
72. The palace at Carlsruhe = - = 260 
73. The villa and gardens of Watthalden, 
near Ettlingen - 0 - 
74. The Durlacher Thor, one of the gates 
of the city of Carlsruhe - - 262 
75. The Ettlinger Thor, another of the 
gates of the city of Carlsruhe = 263 
20. Picturesque aspect of vine fields in 
France - eS é - 130 
33. View in the garden of M. Boursault - 147 
70, Artificial ruins of a Roman aqueduct 
in the gardens at Schwezingen - 258 
71. The ruins of a temple of Mercury in 
the gardens at Schwezingen = 258 
104. Front of the palace of Nymphenburg 393 
109. The Glyptothek at Munich - - 401 
111. Entrance to the botanic garden at 
Munich - = S 
122. St. Michael’s Mount, Cornwall - 543 
115, 116. Forms for, and modes of con- 
structing, arches of ironwork for 
trailing plants over - = 461 
121. Mr, Saul’s device for a garden chair - 541 


PLANS AND MAPS. 


16. A plan for the disposition of a series 
of beds of agiven form - - 
24. Map of the grounds at Bagatelle in 
France - 6 oS ° 
25. Map of the park at St. Quen, France 135 
27. Plan of the style of planting which the 
ark at Villeneuve l’Etang, near 
arne, France, exhibits - - 136 
28. Plan of the gardens, and pleasure. 
grounds of M. Doublat, at Epinal, 
France - 2 e o 
29, 30. Plans of the villa and grounds of 
Admiral Tchitchagoff, at Sceaux, 
France’ - = - 142, 143 
32, Plan of the garden of the Elysée 
Bourbon - = oS 
35. Plan of the garden of M. Boursault, 
France - - - - 
39. Plan of the garden of Bel Respiro, 
France = = oC Ss 
40. Town garden of an architectural cha- 


racter in Paris 5 - - 153 
41. Plan of the garden and villa of M. 
Ternaux at St. Ouen, France - 155 


- 15 
- 209—216 |. 


No. Page 
. Plan of the garden of the Margravine 
Amelia in the suburbs of Carlsruhe 264 
. The principal cemetery at Carlsruhe - 265 
. The burial-ground at Baden. ~—-:266 
. Plan of the gardens of Nymphenburg 387 
. Charles Sckell’s plan for laying out a 
flower-garden in front of the chateau 
of Baron Eichthal, at Ebersberg ~- 394 
. Plan of the garden and grounds of 
Count Monteglas, at Bogenhausen, 
near Munich e = - 395 
. Plan of the English garden at Munich 399 
. Plan of the garden of the Glyptothek 400 
. Plan of the garden of the general hos- 
pital at Munich S - - 402 
. Elevation, plan, and section of the 
range of hot-houses in the Munich 
botanic garden - - ~ 
. Plan of the botanic garden of the 
university of Lund C - 419 
114, Plan of the garden at St. Michael’s 
Mount, Cornwall = - 546 


GARDENER’S HOUSE AND GARDEN 
STRUCTURES. 


14, 15. Design for a gardener’s house to 
be situated on the north side of a 
walled kitchen-garden «= - A477 

34. Elevation of the largest of the hot- 
houses in the garden of M. Bour- 
sault, France - = a 

103. Elevation, plan, and section of the 
range of stoves and green-houses, in 
the botanic garden at Nymphenburg 392 

42. to60. Plans and diagrams explanatory 
of modes of constructing, cheaply, of 
iron, garden walls, sheds, and other 
structures for gardens and farms 193—201 


MODES OF HEATING. 
1, Diagram of Weekes’s mode of heat- 


404 


147 


ing - - = D 
2. Diagram of Busby’s mode of circu- 
lating water by machinery «- = 
61. Diagram of Mr. Carpmael’s apparatus 
for heating asmall room = - 
80, 81, 82, 83. A mode of heating by 
the circulation of fused metallic 
alloy 278-—28 


MACHINES AND ENGINES. 


Q1. Machinery by which stones are elevated 
out of quarries near Paris - 130 
100, 101, 102. Machinery of a boat to be 
rowed by the feet - - 390, 391 
84. A battering axe for felling timber - 297 
117, 118. A press for preparing dried speci- 
mens, in use in the Chiswick garden 473 
133. A mouse-trap formed with a small 
hand-glass and lever - » 580 
19, Cottam’s cheap iron gate for fields - 61 


oe AUN 


Vili LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 


Ne Page | Page 
>LEMENTS D UTENSILS, ~ | 128, A diagram exhibitive of a mode of 
DO US Se Sa ea ‘anne the oak tree into timber 
114, 133. Forms for small hand-glasses 446. 580 shaped fitly for shipbuilding - ~ 559 
119, A kind of hoe aerated from Jersey - 473 
129, A utensil for transplanting, in use in a 
the Island of Guernsey - = 515 PLANTS. 
130. An implement to enable an operator 79, A weeping willow, a branch of which 
to insert plants into beds or borders emitted, at some fect from the earth, 
without his trampling on the soil - 576 one aownlintortherel i ? 967 
131. A double earthen flower-pot formarsh 85. Cylindrospdrium concéntricum Grev. 326 
and aquatic plants - 576 86. Uredo effisa Grev. _ 396 
10—13. Mallet’s devices for labels for, and 87, Acrospdrium monilidides INES ” 306 
labelling of, plants in gardens —- 44, 45 88. Aspergfllus penicillatus Grev, > 397 
132. Instances of *the kinds of labels to be 89, Uredo Fabe Pers. - ‘ - 307 
affixed to plants prepared for export- 90. Aefdium Pini Pers. $ ~ 307 
ation = - 9 3 - 579] 01, Aefdium Grossularie Dec. - ~~ 327 
92. Acidium Berbéridis Pers. - - 327 
OPERATIONS IN CULTURE. 03, ZEcidium laceratum Dec. 2 - 327 
of propa go roses from 94, ZEcidium corntitum Pers. = - 397 
a Paid E Sea - - 39] 95. Puccinia Graminis - iS - 398 
4. A mode of laying a cutting - 40} 96. Phragmidium Rose Grev. - - 328 
5—9, Vergnaud’s mode of shield. grafting, 97. /Ecf{dium cancellatum Sowerby - 329 
and modifications of it - - 41,42] 98. Rhizoctonia Crocirum Dec. - - 330 
17, 18. Mr. Seymour’s mode of training 94—127. Seven oaks distorted in figure 
the morello cherry tree = co 7h by the action oflee winds - 548, 549 


LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 


Constant Reader - 380.723|E.S. _ - - 121, 122. 124] Murray, John, F.HLS., &e. 287 
A Constante Reader, Man- EE. W. = - 97| 0. . ays} 
chester - 244 | FF. - -. 230. 631 Oxley, John = oR 
A Constant Reader, Perth. Farmer, J.C. - 504, 505, 506] Paterson, Richard - 376 
shire - -  - 117} Figgans,James_~ - | 567 Petersen, Jens Peter ~- 419 
A Friend to Improvement 492 | Forbes, James, A.LS., PDs = - 631 
Agardh, Professor - - 415 Author of Hortus Wo- Pearson, John - = Y7/ 
Agronome’s Nephew —- 630 | _ burnensis - ~ 623 | Penny, George, A. iB S. - 491 
A Member of the Guernsey Frost, Philip - 559| Perkins, A, M. - 202 
Horticultural Book So- G. C., 127. 247. 382. 519. 635.795 Polleck, J. - - 629 
ciety - - 376.575 Godsall, Venn 580. 586. 723 | Poore, Benjamin - - 29 
An Enemy to Deceit - 493| G. J.T. - 186, 317| Priest, Myles - - 465 
An Enquirer - - 629 | Gorrie, Archibald, oe H.S., Prince, Mr. - - 32 
Anon = - 534. 570 &e. 59. 564 Querist = - = - 500 
Appleby, Thomas - - 303 | Green, EH « 5 TPN 1 NS z - 192 
A Reader - -  - 630 | Hart, A. P., Barrister at sy He 2 26 = = 378 
Austin, C. -  * 931,043| Law - =~ 194. 159,998| RLS. - 67 
Author of the Domestic Hart, James u 589. 591 Rothwell, William =O 
Gardener’s Manual 179. 186 Hamilton, William, M. B. 618} R. T. Z = 231. 321. 377 
529 | Hawkins, John - - 566| Rutger, T, - 379. 543. 583. 585 
A pone Gardener = - 432 | Hawkins, Thomas - - 80] S. = - 243 
B. - 723 | Haworth, A. H., F.L.S. -~ 218 Sanders, William - 15. 4295 
Barnet, J. of the! Edin. Ex- Haythorn, J. - 70} Saul, Matthias 98. 465. 467. 503. 
perimental Garden ~ 544 | Hayward, Joseph, ee 319. 322 541. 579 
Baron, Charles - - 338 | H. J. 128} Sclentiz et Justitiz Amator 
Belcher, Henry = - 98 | Hislop, Jes ~ S - 118 165. 427 
Billington, W. - - 50 | Hitchen, Thomas’ - 114. 380) Scott, Alexander = - 475 
Blair, Thomas = - 577 Howden; John = 31251343 Selim 5 - 118 
Bowers, William - - 70 - - - 378) Seymour, William ~- 73. 498 
Boyce, William = - =) x B Wika = - 243, 377| Simpson, Robert - - 246 
Bree, Rev. W.T., A.M. 124.|J.D.,sen. - _- 343. 491.718| Smith, JD. - - 380 
” 249, 497. 722 | Jeffries, R.,& Son - - 494! Smith, John = - 103.495 
Browne, H. A. - - 630 | Jennings, John = - 499 Taylor, Samuel - 369. 496. 503 
Buchanan, W. J. - - 99 | Johnson, H. = = 375) Taylor, William - 48. 536. 628 
Busby, C. A. 5 ote G i dhlin. Te - - 631| Thomson, George 586. 588, 589 
Callow, Edward - - 123 | J.S. - - 723| Thompson, Robert . a8 
Cameron, David, A.L.S., Juvenis . = - - 628) Thorburn, Grant 2 
Curator of the Botanic J. W. L. - 325. 436. iL Trevelyan, W. C., F.L.S. ” 586 
Garden, Birmingham 111. | Kendall, Peter oS Turner, Henry, Curator of 
ae 240, ae Kent, J. €. = 81. 120. 360. i. the Botanic Garden, 
ausidicus - Bury St. sD - 123. 374 
Clarke, Rev. W.B., A.M. 547|LLL - - .729|7 ws, ee 
Cormacks and Sinclair - 99 Laundy, Henry 369. 624. 630) Tyso, Rev. Joseph - 66. 125 
Cottam, George 81 | Mackenzie, Peter - 435. 563) Varvicensis - - 125 
Couch, Jonathan, F.L.S. 337 Main, James, A.L.S. - 34, 283. | Viator . < - 420 
Denyer,W.  - - 573 287. 572| Vilmorin, M. — - - 495 
DE = - 256 | Mallet, Robert, 18. 43. 122. 193.| W.B. - - =: 628 
D. M. u a - 504 244, 270. 277. 297. 377. 446. | Webb, James - - 441 
E. - - 511, 626. 5 128 ee zs 2 - 60) Weekes, Edward - - 370 
E. B. - - 245 ason, W., jun. - 538! Whiddon illiam - 300. . 
Elles, J. - 228. 232. 949.591 | Merrick, John ~ F 332 ay go ee 
Ellicombe; Rev. H. T., Mitchell, James = 8| Wilkinson, Dr. C. H. - 300 
A.M. = - 578 | Mitchell, John, jun. 75. 580. oar | Wilkinson, George - 379 
Elliot, Edward - 71 | Munro, James - 217. 301. 551.) Willich, Charles M., 39. 


Ephebicus Horticultor 173, 502 557, 724, 380. 502. 580. ie 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
FEBRUARY, 1833. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Art.I. General Results of a Gardening Tour, during July, 
August, and part of September, in the Year 1831, from Dum- 
SJries, by Kirkcudbright, Ayr, and Greenock, to Paisley. By the 
CoNDUCTOR. : 


(Continued from Vol. VIII. p. 521., and concluded.) 


Paztacr Residences. —There*is no gentleman’s house in 
the west of Scotland, that, in its present state, can properly 
be denominated a palace residence ; but Drumlanrig, from its 
commanding situation, the extensive territory belonging to it, 
and the wealth and rank of its owner, we shall here consider 
as of this class. We feel the more justified in doing so, from 
the extensive improvements now carrying on in the grounds, 
and which will, doubtless, in a short time, be extended to the 
house. Nothing can exceed the dignity of the situation of 
this edifice; placed on a knoll, on the summit of an _ad- 
~ vancing ridge, backed by an extensive range of wooded hills 
and mountains, and commanding, in front, and to the right 
and left, as far as the eye can reach, a varied surface of corn 
and pasture land, watered by a considerable stream which 
skirts the margin of the park, and terminating in hills of 
heath and pasture in the horizon. To whatever side the eye 
turns of this extensive and magnificent prospect, the whole 
is the property of the Duke of Buccleugh. | 

As this property now exists, in a general point of view, 
there is little for the landscape-gardener to do, except form- 
ing two new approaches to the house, a new kitchen-garden ; 
and modifying, by planting and by some changes on the 

Vou. IX.— No. 42. B 


2 General Results of a Gardening Tour : — 


surface, the park and pleasure-ground. An excellent kitchen- 
garden is already walled round, and the gardener’s house, 
about to be commenced, we were informed, will be the 
first in Scotland, not only as a commodious and complete 
dwelling, but as a specimen of cottage Gothic architecture. 
The designer of the garden, Mr. Hannay, is the present head 
gardener at Drumlanrig; and the architect of the house is 
Mr. Burn of Edinburgh. As far as we saw the new line of 
approach, it did not appear to us at all satisfactory; because 
we could not conceive how the ascent to the house by it could 
be rendered either easy to travel over, or agreeable to the 
eye. Judging from a hasty glance, we should say that the 
best way to procure two approaches of perfectly easy ascent 
and descent, of great beauty and variety in the views seen 
from it, and of striking effect on arriving at the house, would 
be, to commence two or three miles to the right and left, and 
to lead from the present public road, a private one, on a 
uniform but very gentle slope, along the side of the range of 
hills at the back, or what is, we believe, the south side of the 
present flower-gardens. We would there form a court-yard 
to the palace, instead of the present one on the western front, 
reserving the extensive prospect from the north front to be 
obtained by the stranger first from the windows. As pleasure- 
ground, we would follow up the present style of the place, 
and form such additions and variations as would place two 
ranges of terrace-gardens on each side of the east, west, and 
north fronts. The beautiful terrace-gardens already existing 
show with how much effect this might be done. Whether we 
might not change the course of the river in some places, or 
produce ramifications from it, in such a way as to show more 
water from the palace windows, we did not take time enough 
to consider; but, at all events, we think we ascertained the 
practicability of diverting a part of its waters in such a way as 
to produce a powerful waterfall in one place, and a lake in 
another. We have great pleasure in stating that the flower- 
gardens were in the highest order and keeping, and the grass 
edgings to the walks entirely to our mind. Mr. Hannay we 
found fully concurring in ail that we had said on that subject in 
our October article. (Vol. VII. p. 544.) Some instruction, as 
well as amusement, may perhaps be obtained by the reader, 
from the perusal of what the celebrated Gilpin said of this 
place, then called Queensberry House, in his Observations 
relative chiefly to Picturesque Beauty in Scotland, &c., published 
in 1776. The garden front of Queensberry House,” he 
observes, “ opens on a very delightful piece of scenery. The 


ground falls from it, near a quarter of a mile, in a steep 


Drumlanrig. 3) 


sloping lawn, which at the bottom is received by ariver; and 
beyond that rises in lofty woody banks. All these objects are in 
the grandest style, except the river ; which, though not large, 
is by no means inconsiderable. It is amazing what con- 
trivance has been used to deform allthis beauty. The descent 
from the house has a substratum of solid rock, which has been 
cut into three or four terraces, at an immense expense. ‘The 
art of blasting rocks by gunpowder was not in use when this 
great work was undertaken. It was all performed by manual 
labour; and men now alive remember hearing their fathers 
say, that a workman, after employing a whole summer day 
with his pickaxe, would carry off in his apron all the stone 
he had chipped from the rock. How much less expensive is 
it, in general, to improve the face of nature, than to deform 
it! In improving, we gently follow; in deforming, we violently 
oppose. ‘The Duke of Queensberry of that day, who carried 
on these works, seems himself to have been aware of his folly. 
He bundled up all the accounts together; and inscribed them, 
as I have been informed, with a grievous curse on any of his 
posterity who should ever look into them.” (p.84.) The other 
observations made by Gilpin on this place are excellent, as, 
indeed, is all that he has written on picturesque beauty ; 
always, however, making allowance for his almost exclusive 
admiration of that kind of beauty. 
Of all the alterations which we should wish to make on the 
grounds at Drumlanrig, there is none that strikes us as of 
half the importance as that of forming new approaches. 
There is one now going on; but a more preposterous under- 
taking of the kind we have seldom or never witnessed in any 
country. An attempt is made, or was making in August, 
1831, to ascend a steep acclivity directly in front of the 
house; a still more hopeless task than that of cutting the rock 
into terraces, above related by Gilpin, by the old Duke of 
Queensberry. ‘The duke did succeed, and the terraces were 
formed, and now exist; but this approach never can form an 
easy ascent; and we maintain that, even if it did, it would be 
in the very worst taste imaginable in the given situation ; for 
this specific reason, that it would show all the striking beauties 
of the spot before entering the house. Now, we hold it to be’ 
a fundamental principle, in laying out grounds, that the grand 
beauties of every situation should be first shown to the 
stranger from the drawing-room windows. If this be not a 
fundamental principle, we should be glad to know on what 
reasons either the situation for a house is fixed on, or the 
direction of a road to it is laid out. There are many points 


in which a stranger taking a cursory glance at a place may be 
B 2 


4: General Results of a Gardening Tour : — 


mistaken; but, if he has his eyes open, he never can err in 
forming an opinion as to the approach. As to the terraces 
we certainly have no wish to alter them. At the time Gilpin 
wrote, terraces were common, and the great rage was for na- 
ture and the picturesque. That rage has now subsided; and in 
landscape-gardening, as in architecture, and in other arts which 
combine beauty with utility, reason is the governing principle. 

Of Mansion Residences, the first we saw in order of time was 
Terragles, where some additions to the house were being 
made, and where the park had been sprinkled over with 
single trees, in the equidistant manner, so as to destroy all 
allusion to natural grouping, and, in a great measure, oblite- 
rate whatever variation of surface there was originally in the 
ground. ‘These trees were chiefly oaks, from 20 to 30 ft. 
high: they were removed without any preparation, in the 
preceding two years; and scarcely one of them had failed, 
much to the credit of the very intelligent gardener, Mr. 
Carruthers. Adjoining the house was an old architectural 
garden, consisting of a level square platform, with thick, 
lofty, hornbeam hedges, and on two sides a broad grass 
terrace, between 20 and 30 ft. higher than the exterior 
grounds. ‘The view from this terrace to a new kitchen-garden, 
which meets the eye on a gentle slope, backed by wood, is 
striking, because uncommon, and is, we think, agreeable. By 
the routine manner of improving, this garden would be turned 
into a pleasure-ground; but, from the impressions it made on 
us, we should be inclined to retain it as a garden of fruit and 
flowers. It was in excellent order. 

Jardine Hall, in the midst of what was recently a wild 
country, and several miles distant from any similar mansion, is 
an imposing object; and, as we approached it, the broad flight 
of steps to the portico, with the group of stable offices with 
clock cupola on the one side, and the encircled boundary wall 
with its porticoed deors and ornamented railings on the other, 
had an Anglo-Italian air, the more charming, because unex~ 
pected in such a style of country. The ample entrance hall 
of this house contains some large handsome paintings, and 
rare specimens of natural-history subjects; and, like the first 
bar in a piece of music, it gives a note of preparation for the 
ornaments which prevail throughout the house, and for the 
almost complete museum of British birds collected by Sir 
William Jardine, and admirably mounted and displayed. There 
is a large botanic garden, which already includes a consider- 
able American ground; an arboretum, which will be as com- 
plete as the climate will admit, is commenced; and Linnean 
and Jussieuean arrangements of herbaceous plants are in 


Mansion Residences. 5 


contemplation. The object is, to combine general effect and 
ornamental display with science. On the whole, Jardine 
Hall, and the pursuits of its amiable and hospitable owner, 
show how much happiness a cultivated mind may enjoy in the 
country, without reference to towns, cities, or a populous 
neighbourhood. 

Raehills is in a situation still more wild than Jardine Hall, 
but it has the advantages of having a hilly surface, a great 
extent of wood, and a river considerably below the house, and 
not on a level with it, as at Jardine Hall. It is singular that 
there should be considerable streams near both mansions, 
without the water being seen from either of them. This 
defect might be removed in both cases, but not without 
some expense. At Raehills, there is a holm which might 
easily be flooded, so as.to form a lake; or, the bed of the 
river, which is now along one side of this holm, might be 
changed to the other side, where it would be seen from the 
house. ‘The natural features of Raehills are all grand and 
picturesque; but, with the exception of the new additions 
making to the house, and the general masses of the distant 
plantations as seen from it, we cannot say much for the 
operations of art. Whoever may lay out the approach road 
will do well to consider what we have said on this subject 
in a preceding page; and the whole of the walks among the 
natural woods and rocks require reformation, agreeably to 
the principles alluded to. 

Kirkmichael House is rebuilding, in a sort of Elizabethan 
style, from the design of Mr. Burns. There is a good 
kitchen-garden just completed, including a suitable gardener’s 
house, and forcing-pits. The situation of this house has little 
to recommend it, in a country abounding with so much 
natural beauty; but highly improved design and high keeping 
will effect much ; and, in a country where these qualities are 
less common than the beauties of nature, they will probably 
be valued more. r 

Closeburn Hail is a plain but very commodious mansion, 
and its vicinity has been the scene of more improvements of 
the useful kind, than that of any other mansion in the south 
of Scotland. The extent of surface that, from useless bog 
heath or other sterile soil, has been turned into good pasture, 
irrigated, rendered arable, or planted with trees, during the 
last forty years, is astonishing. During this time, limeworks 
have been established on a highly improved principle, and the 
practice of liming both arable and grass land rendered general 
throughout the country. Saw mills have been erected, and 
the pines and firs planted by Mr. Menteath sawn up into 

B 3 


6 General Results of a Gardening Tour : — 


boards, laths, and for other purposes, and sold in this manu-> 
factured state at very moderate rates ; thus at once creating a 
market for the article, and tempting the farmers and owners of 
cottages to increase their comforts. Mr. Menteath has formed 
many miles of excellent roads, some of them on the principle 
of alternate levels and inclined planes, with stone wheel-tracks 
on these planes, by which he has found that one horse can 
draw from thirty cwt. to two tons in small four-wheeled wag- 
gons (Ency. of Agr. 2d edit. § 3540-1.) He uses exten- 
sively bone manure ; and, as an Englishman, has of course 
practised his country’s method of making hay: but, though he 
has done this for nearly half.a century, his neighbours still 
continue the old practice of withering it in the field. (Vol. VII. 
p- 534.) Schools have been established by Mr. and Miss 
Menteath; and, in short, there is no good work that can be 
expected from a resident landed proprietor of great intelli- 
gence and the most active benevolence, that has not been 
engaged in (and that, too, with success) by this family. 
Munches affords an example of agricultural improvement, 
combined with great taste in landscape-gardening, as far as 
the latter art has been calledinto use. ‘The line of approach, 
though over a flat surface, is one of the most perfect things 
of the kind in this part of the country, and the trees seen 
from it, whether those formerly existing or recently planted, 
are all in natural combinations; the groups in the foreground 
varying with every change of the spectator, and all seeming to 
belong to larger masses; which, in their turn, appear to con- 
nect themselves with an interminable forest, which carries the 
eye to the woods that clothe the sides of the neighbouring 
granitic mountains. On arriving at the house, we found it 
unexpectedly close on the bank of a winding river, near which 
there are some very singular masses of naked granite, which 
rise abruptly in the lawn, and remind us of the rocks some- 
times observed in Chinese drawings: when the place comes to 
receive its finish, these masses will afford fine opportunities 
of displaying rock plants, trailers and creepers, with various 
half-hardy shrubs of rarity or ornament. We were informed 
by Mr. Maxwell, that, in his gardening improvements, he had 
received considerable assistance from the hints of his friend, 
the Rev. Mr. Carruthers of Dalbeattie; a gentleman whose 
taste and general views, judging from some hours passed in 
his company, and from his own beautiful little residence, 
St. Peter’s, appeared to us entirely to coincide with our own. 
The kitchen-garden at Munches was in the most perfect order 
and keeping: there was a little too much raking on the gravel 
walk, as at Terragles, for our taste; but not a weed, nora 
decayed shoot or leaf, was to be found; the walls were well 


Mansion Residences. ” 


covered with trees, neatly trained, and the gooseberry bushes 
judiciously pruned. It is gratifying to see a gardener, who, 
like Mr. Webster, has been forty years in his situation, not 
relaxing in any of his duties, and more especially in those of 
order and neatness. : 

Gilston Castle, which, when we before saw it, in 1805, 
then nearly completed, appeared to be in a naked, barren, 
hilly country, is now embosomed in woods, and all the hills 
are more or less covered with thriving plantations. 

St. Mary’s Isle is overgrown with wood, but with wood so 
beautiful, both as to the individual trees and shrubs, and their 
disposition in groups and masses, that we do not wonder at 
there being a reluctance to thin them out. The grounds 
have, however, one unpardonable fault, and that is, they are 
deficient in exotics; without which, when laid out in the 
natural style, there can be no gardenesque. At the time these 
grounds were planted, the gardenesque and the picturesque 
may be said to have been the same thing; that is, plantations 
formed in a picturesque or natural manner were then as cha- 
racteristic of the grounds of the country residence of a man 
of taste, as plantations in the geometrical style with straight 
rows and avenues, characterised similar residences half a cen- 
tury before. Both styles were gardenesque when it was their 
turn to be in fashion; but neither being at present exclusively 
the mode, the characteristic of the gardenesque is now the pre- 
valence of exotic trees and shrubs. ‘This change in taste 
shows a real advance in intellectual enjoyment; because it 
carries with it the associations connected with genera and 
species, in addition to those of form, colour, and combination. 
In the kitchen-garden, at St. Mary’s Isle, we found most 
abundant crops of grapes and peaches; the vine border, as we 
were informed by our esteemed friend, Mr. Nesbitt, had not 
been dug or stirred with the fork since we last saw it, twenty- 
SIX years ago. 

Cally House is a plain granite building, in a park of recent 
formation, of great extent, of considerable variety of surface, 
and abundantly clothed with wood. ‘The situation of the 
house, near an estuary formed by the mouth of the river 
Fleet, is very fine; but, unfortunately, the entrance front is on 
the wrong side, and none of the windows of the principal 
rooms look towards the river. All the works executed about 

Cally and the village of Gatehouse appear to be of the most 
substantial kind; but they are not all in that high and finished 
.taste that we expected to find them. ‘The masses of trees in 
_the park are in many places too formal and unconnected; and 


-there are single trees which neither group with them nor with 
Mo By 


8 General Results of a Gardening Tour : — 


one another. Much might be done in this park by the intro- 
duction, near the masses, of a few small groups of trees of 
different sizes, with thorns and other shrubs; by opening the 
outline of the masses; and, above all, by thinning them. The 
scenery about the house, and the views, from its entrance front, 
of the richly wooded country beyond the river, with the moun- 
tains and their rocky summits on the one hand, and the sea 
on the other, are unequalled by any thing of the kind in this 
part of the country. 

The approach to Blairquhan, on the banks of the river 
Girvan, is remarkably fine. The house is new, in a highly 
enriched Gothic style: and the grounds, forming part of the 
valley of the Girvan, are backed on all sides by rising hills 
and mountains. On the whole, Blairquhan is by nature a 
noble place; but there is no proper connection between the 
pleasure-ground and the house; so that, although nature and 
architecture have both done much, yet the details are very 
defective. A great deal of pains seems to have been taken in 
hoeing and raking some miles of approach road, which would 
have been much better left in its firm state, and the weeds 
pulled up by hand. Indeed, on such a road, in constant use, 
few weeds will be found to grow; and therefore nothing should 
be done to disturb the firmness of the surface, and infringe on 
its character of mellowness and age. We are the more par- 
ticular on this head, because the practice of raking walks, and 
having them covered with loose gravel, instead of gravel 
firmly rolled, seems, as already observed, to be a prevailing 
sin in the gardens in the west of Scotland. The gardener 
here is quite an original character, well versed in his profession, 
but very hard worked; the strength allowed him being insuf- 
ficient to keep what is under his care as it ought to be. The 
addition of one man to the yearly strength kept would make 
all the difference between a harassed mind, and a place always 
on the verge of disorder; and a mind at ease, not so fatigued 
with the work of the day as to be unable to read at night, and 
a place in high keeping. But there is evidently, among the 
Scottish country gentlemen, either a great want of taste, or a 
great want of means ; perhaps both. 

Culzean Castle is a scattered building, in the mixed style of 
the architect Adams, placed on the brow of an irregular lofty 
cliff washed by the sea. Nothing can exceed the grandeur of 
the situation ; and the buildings, taking them as a whole, and 
speaking without reference to the correctness of architectural 
details, are varied and picturesque. None of the approaches 
are, however, judiciously conducted either for displaying the 
beauties of the place, or for easy conveyance. ‘There is a 


Mansion Residences. 9 


great extent of garden scenery, and a very large kitchen- 
garden. The whole is remarkably well kept by the gardener, 
Mr. Heppell, though evidently with the greatest difficulty, 
from a deficiency of hands. Mr. Heppell had in his hot-house 
crops of pines, grapes, and peaches, which were not surpassed 
by any we saw in Scotland: indeed, taking size, quantity, and 
flavour jointly into consideration, we think they were the best 
we saw any where north cf Knowlesley Park. But that which, 
in respect to horticulture, renders the kitchen-garden at 
Culzean more especially worthy of attention, is, the excellent 
crops of grapes obtained in the pine stoves, in the manner 
which we have noticed (Vol. VII. p.411. and p. 539.) as 
practised at ‘Trentham, ‘Tatton Park, and other places in 
England. The grass edgings to the walks, and groups of 
flowers on the lawn, were, generally speaking, entirely to our 
taste. ‘The young plantations were ina ruinous state, for want 
of thinning, but we have no room here for details. 

Barganny has for the last 25 years been the scene of 
extensive improvements in the way of road making, draining, 
planting, &c. The kitchen-garden, laid out by Mr. Hay, 
has flued walls and hot-houses. It occupies, together with 
the pleasure-ground which surrounds it, about 13 acres. 
The whole is most economically and judiciously managed by 
Mr. Dodd, who, in the absence of the family, cannot, of 
course, attend to high keeping. 

Kilkerran is remarkable for an excellent kitchen-garden, 
also by Mr. Hay, and for a singularly romantic wooded 
dingle. The rock through which the stream has furrowed 
its course down the face of a steep hill is of red sandstone ; 
and the cavernous sinuosities, waterfalls, and cascades are of 
endless variety. Among the trees are some magnificent silver 
firs, but either more exotics are wanted to render the dell suf- 
ficiently gardenesque, or those which are there ought to be 
removed, in order to render it perfectly natural. ‘There is 
an excellent gardener’s house, and the garden is admirably 
managed by Mr. Cullen, a reading gardener, who is fully 
aware of the importance of not digging fruit-tree borders, or 
paring the grass edgings of the walks. 

We must pass over a number of mansions, to notice Auchin- 
cruive, a grand and romantic place on the banks of the Ayr. 
The house is placed in a most striking situation, but is not very 
fortunate with regard to the road by which it is approached. 
The kitchen-garden, as such, is badly situated; but, com- 
bining, as it does, architectural and Italian-like scenery, with 
the culture of fruits and flowers, it has an excellent general 
effect, and suits the style of scenery amidst which it is placed. 


10 General Results of a Gardening Tour : — 


There is a broad walk by the margin of the river, which is 
remarkably fine; and the place, when the family shall again 
reside there, and it be kept in high order, will be one of the 
first in the west of Scotland. Mr. Skinner, the gardener, is 
a man of a very superior order of mind, and nothing in the 
course of our tour gratified us more than to hear the manner 
in which he spoke of his employer; who, indeed, from his 
general character in the county, must be a man of a great and 
liberal mind, and of enlightened benevolence. 

Caprington Castle has lately received great additions ; and 
a number of trees have been transplanted in the grounds, 
according to Sir Henry Steuart’s manner; but they are too 
much dotted instead of being grouped. We were very sorry 
to find here, that the gardener had recently had his cow taken 
from him; and we saw the carpenters at work fitting up his 
cow-house as a fruit-room, after having, for nearly 25 years, 
lodsed a cow for the same individual, the gardener. What 


5 : Cae: 
a reward for a faithful servant of 25 years’ standing ! 


g 

Most substantial gardening erections, stable offices, and a 
commodious and handsome gardener’s house, have been lately 
erected at Williamsfield, by Mrs. Farley, a lady who, as 
we were informed, possesses great kindness and liberality 
of disposition. We regretted to see the park spoiled by 
dotting ; but perhaps it is not yet toolate: and if Mr. Cooper, 
the gardener, a most willing and excellent man, will send us 
a correct plan of the trees, and other objects, as they now 
stand, we will return it to him gratis, with corrections. 

The grounds at Loudon Castle are greatly improved, in as 
far as respects planting and farming; but the full share of 
expense and attention does not seem to have been devoted to 
the kitchen-garden and pleasure-ground, probably from the 
family seldom or never residing there. 

Eglinton Castle is placed in a dull flat situation, surrounded 
by abundance of wood, including some very large beeches. 
There is an extensive kitchen-garden, and many hundred feet 
of hot-houses; but, in consequence of the minority of the 
owner, the grounds are not kept up as they ought to be. 
There is a gardener’s house, all frontage and show, but very 
small and inconvenient within. 

Ardgowan is finely situated on a knoll, which has once 
been the highest point of an island in the Clyde. In the front 
is a terrace-walk, commanding extensive views; but we do 
not like the placing of the clumps on the lawn; because the 
principle of a sufficient reason is not obvious. The kitchen- 
garden is in a low damp situation, and is now undergoing a 
system of drainage. 


Villa Residences. 11 


At Erskine, a house in the church Gothic style, and on a 
most extensive scale, has been set down in a remarkably fine 
situation on the Clyde. We doubt if it will ever be occupied, 
as the day for building such houses, either in Scotland or 
England, is decidedly gone by. ‘The kitchen-garden here is 
new, and one of the best which we have any where seen. The 
gardener, Mr. Shiells, has received more prizes for superior 
fruits and culinary productions than any gardener in the west 
of Scotland. Here, as at most of the mansion residences 
above enumerated, the fruit is sold. 

Castle Semple is a fine old place, with a magnificent lake, 
and extensive woods. Some of the oaks, chestnuts, ashes, 
beeches, sycamores, birches, silver and spruce firs, &c., are 
remarkably large. The kitchen-garden, by Mr. Hay, is in 
his most elaborate manner, with water-pipes in the walls, &c.; 
but we cannot approve of attempting circular work in wooden 
hot-houses, on account of the expense, and the obstruction of 
light produced by the converging rafters. Metal houses, 
however, are not yet popular in Scotland. The gardens here 
are well managed, by our correspondent, Mr. Lauder, who 
has the good fortune to be under an excellent master and 
mistress, Colonel and Mrs. Harvey. 

Of Villa Residences we can only notice a few, remarkable 
either for their beauty, curiosity, garden culture, or keeping. 

Castle Dykes is on a romantic spot, overlooking the Nith 
and the town of Dumfries. ‘The surface is broken, irregular, 
and rocky; partly from its having been the site of an old 
castle, and partly from its having served for many years as a 
quarry to supply red sandstone for the buildings of Dumfries. 
Nature and accident supplied a few old trees; and the late 
Mr. Stott, the proprietor, who formed the place, spared no 
expense in building and gardening, that could contribute to- 
wards rendering it a little wonder of romantic beauty, as well 
as a comfortable and elegant residence. ‘This gentleman’s 
widow, now in America, had a taste for art and also for 
botany; and to this cireumstance may be traced many beau- 
ties in the grounds, which it is probable would not otherwise 
have found a place there, and many rare trees and shrubs not 
common in this part of Scotland. Mrs. Stott had an ex- 
cellent collection of house exotics, the greater part of which, 
however, we were told, she took with her to America. The 
kitchen-garden is placed in the bottom of what was one of the 
largest quarries reduced to a level, and covered with suitable 
soil, brought from a distance. ‘This level is in the form of an 
oval, and on three sides of it there are steep grass banks, along 
the top of which is a terrace walk, whence the eye looks 


12 General Results of a Gardening Tour : — 


down on the garden on one side, and to the pleasure-ground, 
scenery, and distant country on the other. A great mistake 
committed here, in our opinion, is that of covering these steep 
banks with turf, instead of clothing them with low shrubs, 
such as rhododendrons, and all the genera belonging to that 
order which do not grow above 4 or 5 ft. high. The effect 
produced by these shrubs would have been delightful : whereas 
a grassy bank, too steep to be walked on, not being part of a 
regular terrace, is of no use in adding to the effect, and is 
commonplace in itself. The trouble of mowing this exceed- 
ingly steep bank, we were told, was very great; and the grass, 
notwithstanding, looked coarse and thin. The walls, offices, 
and buildings of every description are executed in the most sub- 
stantial manner, and with an extraordinary degree of attention 
to neatness, and to the perfection of minute details. Formerly, 
the whole place was kept in the very highest order; even the 
floors of the pigsties, we were informed, were scrubbed with 
white sandstone, like door-steps ; but at present, though still 
respectable in point of neatness, the walks in the lawn have 
sunk too deep for the grass edgings; the trees and shrubs have 
become crowded, and the grass is less frequently mown than 
it ought to be. 

Hannayfield is remarkable for having been laid out by the 
owner, in a sort of geometric style peculiar to himself. The 
house, by Mr. Newall, is commodious and most complete in 
all its details. It commands the grandest and most Italian- 
like views of any place in the neighbourhood of Dumfries. 
The grass edgings are, however, pared, and the gravel raked 
to a degree that filled us with horror. We found here every 
disposition in the proprietor to make a fine place, except that 
of taking advice ; and he may be said, in consequence, to have 
quacked himself. After the kindness which we experienced 
from Mr. Hannay, it does seem cruel to find fault; but we 
have too much respect both for him and ourselves to deal in 
any thing but truth. 

At Dalscairth, we were surprised to find some green 
painted iron bridges, an artificial ruin, and other things, be- 
longing, as we thought, exclusively to the cockney school. 

Goldielee, a secluded spot, backed by high wooded moun- 
tains, which form at the same time a background to Dal- 
scairth; is in a state of neglect. < 

St. Peter’s, the residence of the Rev. A. Carruthers, at the 
Gothic chapel, Dalbeattie, is a gem of beauty, formed out of 
an aggregation of granite boulders (large rounded fragments 
of stone found on the surface of the soil) and an immense 
mass of that rock. By covering part of the rock with earth, 


Villa Residences. 13 


Jeading a winding walk around and over and through among 
the boulders, and introducing rare and curious plants ane 
shrubs, especially climbers and trailers, a greatinterest is created 
as well by the variety of the near objects, as by the character 
of the distant views. In some places fruit trees and culinary 
vegetables are introduced in plots, where the soil is sufficiently 
deep for their growth; and, after following the mazes of the 
winding path in its various ascents and descents, we have the 
agreeable contrast of returning by a straight walk by the side 
of a neatly clipped hedge, which forms the boundary to a pad- 
dock. So highly do we think of Mr. Carruthers’s taste in 
landscape-gardening, that we would strongly recommend the 
neighbouring proprietors, who may propose executing any thing 
belonging to that art, to endeavour to obtain his opinion; as 
we feel confident that he would only recommend what every 
man of taste must approve. We hope our much esteemed 
friend (if we may take the liberty of so designating a man after 
our own heart) will excuse our having made these remarks. 

Bargally, at the head of a most lovely narrow valley, be- 
tween hills and mountains whose sides are covered with wood, 
is not only interesting from its natural beauty, but from the 
accident of its having been the residence, a hundred years ago, 
of Sir Robert Heron, one of the greatest botanists of his 
country and time. He planted many rare trees, of which 
some fine specimens still remain, and which we shall here- 
after describe. 

In the suburbs of Paisley there are some villas laid out in 
imitation of the newest taste; but which are liable to all the 
objections which we have stated in preceding articles. Who- 
ever knows these villas, and will look at fig. 72. Vol. VIL. 
p- 401., will understand what we mean. 

Kirk-Alloway Cottage, the residence of Mr. Auld, well 
known both in England and Scotland for the interest which 
he has taken in the sculptor ‘Thom, and in every thing relat- 
ing to Burns, and more especially for being the principal 
cause of the completion of his monument, is situated close by 
the new bridge of Doon. Within the grounds is Mungo’s 
Well, so well known to the admirers of the poem “ ‘Tam o’ 
Shanter ;” and, as the public take a great interest in this 
spot, which the genius of Burns has rendered classic ground, 
Mr. Auld allows persons of all classes to pass through his 
garden to the well. One of the neighbouring gentlemen, on 
being told this, remonstrated with Mr. Auld on the danger of 
getting his garden robbed, and was astonished at being in- 
formed, that in no one instance had it ever happened that a 
single flower or fruit had been touched. ‘The laird was no 


14 General Results of a Gardening Tour. 


less astonished at the idea of treating his poorer fellow-coun- 
trymen with kindness, than he was at their returning this 
kindness with eratitude. 

Crosslee Cottage, near Johnstone, though of less extent 
than any of the villas we have mentioned, being, in fact, more 
a cottage than a villa, is a gem as unique in its way as Castle 
Dykes or St. Peter’s. The cottage is placed on the top of a 
bank upwards of 200 ft. above the river Gryffe, just at a bend 
in the stream, and the ground slopes steeply down from the 
house to a narrow holm, which skirts the margin of the water. 
On the opposite side the bank is still higher and steeper, and it 
is covered with old wood from the water’s edge. The sky out- 
line of these trees, owing to the bend of the river, seems here 
to rise into a hill, declining both up and down the stream ; 
and conspiring, as it were, with the bend of the river, to 
mark out the situation for the cottage. ‘The portion of lawn 
in front of the dwelling is very small, but it contains a selec- 
tion of beauties and rarities such as we have not elsewhere 
seen in Scotland. At the end of the house, the lawn joins a 
terrace, from which steps descend to another, both supported 
by masonry; and below is a hanging fruit-garden. There 
are two other gardens; but we have no time to enter into 
details. On the whole, Crosslee Cottage is a fine example 
of the maudtum in parvo in ornamental gardening ; and, of all 
the places which we saw in Scotland, it has left the strongest 
impression on our mind: the next strongest was produced 
by Auchincruive. 

Cottage Gardens. — We cannot say much for these in the 
west of Scotland. They are small, and, with the exception of 
some about Paisley and other manufacturing places, scarcely 
any thing is grown in them but. borecole and potatoes : 
onions and beans are not uncommon, but peas and turnips 
are rare; and kidneybeans (one of the most profitable of 
summer vegetables) are scarcely ever grown. At the village 
of Catrine, in addition to the small gardens behind the cot- 
tages or street houses, there are several acres feued out, 
somewhat in the manner of the town gardens of Birmingham 
and Lancaster ; and in these a variety of culinary vegetables, 
flowers, and the smaller fruits, are cultivated with care. ‘The 
gardens attached to the lodges at gentlemen’s seats must not 
be considered as included in the rude ones above alluded to. 
These being frequently the gardens of professional gardeners, 
and in all cases more or less under their eye, are generally 
ornamented with flowers, and the houses belonging to them 
with creepers. ‘They are not, however, always very profit- 
able gardens to the possessors, any more than the lodges 


On several Gardens in England. 15 


which they are meant to adorn are always comfortable dwell- 
ings. That part of these lodge gardens where kitchen crops 
are grown is in general behind the cottage, overshaded by 
the branches of trees above, and impoverished by their roots 
beneath. Much of what looks well to a stranger, in the 
dwellings and appurtenances of those immediately depending 
on the wealthy classes, is only surface comfort; and, before 
any thing better can arrive, the rich man must learn to sym- 
pathise with the whole of human nature, or the poor man to 
protect himself. 


Art. II. Odservations on several Gardens in England. 
By Mr. W. SanveErs. 


(Continued from Vol. VIII. p. 551.) 


TRAFALGAR House, the Seat of Earl Nelson. — July 3. 
Situated on the opposite bank of the river Avon to Long- 
ford Castle. ‘The park is well wooded, and contains some 
fine old timber. ‘The mansion is of brick, and stands 
on_an eminence, which commands a fine and picturesque 
view of a large tract of country, with the river winding its way 
in the distance on the south-western side. ‘The idea struck 
my mind how easily the whole adjacent scenery might be 
appropriated as its own by a little judicious planting, to the 
total exclusion of the now partially to be seen seats in the 
immediate neighbourhood, and the opening of vistas where 
most desirable. A hint or two from Sir Henry Steuart 
would not be unserviceable here, where nature seems to be 
waiting for a finishing touch. I am persuaded that a few 
bold strokes froma masterly genius would go far to raise this 
place to no mean station among its compeers. ‘The gardens 
have not the good fortune to boast of an advantageous site, 
having been crammed away, as it were, in a dungeon, as not 
worth caring for; being “ squatted” down in a low marshy 
spot by the side of the river, thus almost precluding the 
possibility of obtaining any thing like a good tree, much more 
a crop of the finer stone fruits, and thereby doing away with 
one great source of gratification from the garden, while, from 
the want of such produce, the poor gardener is too often 
brought in guilty, in the judgment of his master. An ex- 
ceedingly good situation might have been chosen for a kitchen- 
garden within 500 yards of the present site, and one at 
the same time sufficiently removed from the mansion to have 
been entirely excluded from the view; but, through some 


16 Observations on several 


oversight, or want of skill, in the outset, a great expense has 
been incurred in the building of walls, hot-houses, sheds, &c., 
and all to little or no purpose. ‘The place was in tolerable 
keeping, considering the little assistance that was allowed to 
the gardener; but the present proprietor, I believe, is not 
distinguished for any great love of horticulture. 

Norman Court, the Residence of Baring Wall, Esq. — July 3. 
This is an extremely well kept place; the gardens and grounds 
generally indicating that no small degree of attention is be- 
stowed upon them: but, indeed, under the care of such an 
intelligent man as Mr. Hughes, with any thing like a moderate 
share of support, they could not fail to present a scene of 
order and neatness. Here I saw some remarkably fine clusters 
of white muscadine grapes, far surpassing any I have before 
observed, either in point of handsome cluster or large berry. 
Mr. Hughes has got a peculiarly good method in managing 
his Alpine strawberries, by which he retards their bearing to 
August, when his crop is fit for the table, and continues so to 
the middle of November. ‘This he accomplishes by plucking 
off the first and second show of flower-stems, and allowing 
the third to come to perfection. To prevent the rain from 
splashing the dirt upon the fruit, flint stones are closely laid 
underneath the foliage, which not only keeps the fruit dry and 
clean, but, I doubt not, accelerates its ripening. In connection 
with the flower-garden, which is tastefully laid out, and well 
stocked with a choice collection of showy and rare plants, 
there are some very romantic walks leading through the 
woods adjoining the mansion, whence, occasionally, a beautiful 
peep of rich country opens to the view, varied by the thickly 
wooded rising ground to the west. ‘The stove and conservatory 
are well filled by a goodly number of excellent plants in high 
health and keepmg. ‘The Cactus family is well managed. 
Mr. Hughes succeeds in flowering Céreus truncatus better 
than I have generally seen it, and at almost any season of the 
year. He places the plants immediately under the glass roof 
of the stove, where they have light and heat in abundance; 
and, having various sets of them in preparation, he thus obtains 
a prolonged season of this beautiful flower. 

July 5.— Batts, Esq., has a small place on the west 
bank of the Avon. ‘The gardens here possess very little to 
attract, with the exception of some good fig trees in full bear- 
ing, and a house of superior black Hamburgh grapes. The 
frames contained a good crop of melons, many of them very 
large. In the pleasure-grounds I observed some very fine 
specimens of cedars, larches, and pines. 

_ After leaving this place, I called at Colonel Baker’s, in 
Salisbury ; a place which, before entering it, one might sup- 


Gardens in England. 17 


pose, could present nothing attractive, from its being appa- 
rently situated in the centre of the city: but the contrary is 
the case; for you are ushered into a large piece of ground, 
laid out with great taste as a pleasure-garden, and so arranged 
as that all the surrounding objects, except the beautiful spire 
of the cathedral, are completely hid, so that one may at once 
fancy oneself in the country. ‘This place was then under the 
able direction of the late Mr. Shennan, formerly gardener at 
Gunnersbury House, a well known pine-grower, and a man of 
very superior abilities. His pines were looking extremely well 
when I saw them; and we had some very handsome fruit in 
various stages of growth. Several specimens of hot-house 
climbers were in high perfection; such as Combretum pur- 
pureum, Passiflora Bonapartea, &c. Some specimens of Ixora 
coccinea were also well worthy of notice. ‘The grounds were 
bespangled with ornamental and rare plants ; but the kitchen- 
garden department was confined to a small space, and evidently 
looked on as of minor importance. ‘The crops, &e., were, how- 
ever, by no means deficient, and the whole place was character- 
ised by neat and orderly keeping. I remain, Sir, &c. 

Wm. SANDERS. 
Laurence Hill Nursery, Bristol, Dec. 15. 1832. 


Art. Ill. A Visit to the Gardens of T. A. Knight, Esq. 
By Mr. Joun PEARSON. 


Sir, 

KNOWING you are anxious to receive reports of different 
gardens, I beg to inform you that I again visited Downton 
Castle, September 7. Among the many things worthy of 
notice, Mr. Knight showed me his Persian melons. ‘Those 
grown in pots are certainly very good; but those that are 
grown in (what I shall call) his patent melon pit are much 
the best. This pit is built on the plan of heating cold air by 
passing it through flues heated with dung linings, the prin- 
ciple of which plan Mr. Knight has before described. I 
mention it here, because I think the melons will surpass those 
grown in pots, owing to the roots of the plants, in the former 
case, not being exposed to the variations of the atmosphere 
of the house, pit, &c. 

Mr. Knight’s pines are looking very well: he considers 
them much better flavoured than those grown in the usual 
way. He cuts them when quite green (that is, before they 
show the least appearance of colour), as they are the best 

Vou. IX. — No. 42. c 


18 Horticultural Jottanda 


flavoured at that time, when grown according to Mr. Knight’s 
plan. I tasted a fruit of the green olive pine, which was as 
green as a leek, but of the finest flavour Iever tasted. At the 
same time, I have no hesitation in saying that pines grown in 
the usual way are never better than when just beginning “to 
turn,” as gardeners term it. Mr. Knight has quantities of 
seedling pears, plums, potatoes, hybrid melons, &c.; but 
what I wish more particularly to inform my brother-gardeners 
of are some seedling nectarines, which, I think, ought to be 
in every gentleman’s garden as soon as it is possible for them 
to be procured. 

The Downton nectarine is undoubtedly the best of these 
seedlings : it is a most beautiful fruit, large in size, oblong in 
shape, firm in the flesh, excellent in flavour, and with the 
stone small. The next in quality is the Althorp seedling; a 
very good nectarine, but not so large as the Downton: it 
more resembles the old Elruge, but is not so stringy in 
the flesh as that long-esteemed nectarine. ‘There is another, 
the name of which I have forgotten (not having taken any 
notes), which is nearly equal to the Downton in flavour, but 
differs widely in shape. 

Although I have thus volunteered my humble opinion on 
these nectarines, I feel assured that gardeners will be very 
fond of them, from the good appearance of the trees on the 
walls; and that gentlemen and ladies will appreciate their 
excellence from their most delicious flavour, which far sur- 
passes the Murrey, and all the old favourites. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Kinlet Hall Gardens, Sept. 1832. JoHn PEarson. 


ArT. IV. Horticultural Jottanda of a recent Continental Tour. 
By Roserr Matter, Jun. Esq. 


(Continued from Vol. VIII. p. 526.) 


On looking over my last jottanda, I find some corrections 
to make, which I send you *, and many omissions, which I 
would now fill up, but that I should have to bring the reader 
back to where we started. I propose, however, when we 


* Page 521. line 8. from the bottom, for “ expeditious” read “ expe- 
ditus” (Latin, light-armed). P. 521. 1.6. from the bottom, for “ these” 
read “ this.’ P.523. 1.11. for “ engrafted” read “ ungrafted”’ P. 523. 
1, 25. for “ wonders” read “ wondrous.” P.525. 1. 14., “ Trois Journées” 
is properly translated “ three days of battle.” P. 526. 1.19. for “stormy” 
read “snowy.” P.526. 1.25. for “ seventy feet deep” read “ seventeen 
feet deep.” 


of a recent Continental Tour. 19 


have finished our rapid travels in company, if so it should 
happen, to give a slight sketch of the statistics of each coun- 
try passed over, so far as they are applicable to the general 
subject of this Magazine, in which such vacancies can be 
supplied. 

Having arrived at Geneva, I shall, before proceeding 
farther, give the following list of such plants as I observed 
by the wayside, on the road from Paris to that city, by Dijon, 
&c. Most of them I was enabled to collect specimens of by 
walking up the hills ; which may always be done provided the 
traveller takes his place on the outside, or in the coupée, and 
secures the good offices of the conducteur by a small gra- 
tuity. Some of the plants, however, I cannot be absolutely 
certain of, as far as regards species, having only seen them 
from the diligence; and plants are not things that ‘ he who 
runs may read.” 

Santolina incana, Tussilago alpina, Cacalia alpina, Acanthus 
mollis; 4'llium, two or three species, not in flower ; Gladiolus 
communis; Laéthyrus tuberdsus, also seen in cultivation for 
its large and esculent tubers; Spartium janceum; Sédum, 
many species, particularly Anacampseros and_ villosum ; 
Sempervivum arachnoideum, A'nthemis Pyréthrum, Melissa 
officinalis, Campanula grandiflora [ Platycodon A. Dec. grandi- 
florum A. Dec.], C. Spéculum [Specularia 4. Dec. Spécu- 
lum A. Dec], and another species, which I could not recog- 
nise; Dianthus barbatus, Rhododéndron ferrugineum (on Jura), 
Nigélla arvénsis, ZAthyrus praténsis, Achilléa Millefolium, 
Medicago lupulina (very common), Cichorium Z'ntybus, 
Aconitum Napéllus, Adonis vernalis, Bryonia alba, Juniperus 
Sabina, J. Ox¥cedrus, Clématis Vidrna, 7Zrifolium répens, 
Plantago lanceolata. 

There was also occasionally, but rarely, a plant which I 
took for an Z*chium, but of which I was unable to collect a 
specimen. 

Such are a few of the plants from the immense flora of 
France ; which are not given as a complete list of those to be 
found between Paris and Geneva, but merely to show the 
young gardener that some botanical knowledge may be 
snatched up even while whirling along on the diligence. 

We now return to Geneva. The ground on which the 
town is built is hilly, which makes most of the streets tortu- 
ous and pénible [tiring]. ‘The houses are high, from five to 
six stories in general, and are not unfrequently deformed 
by shed roof arcades, supported by clumsy wooden posts, 
which reach to the top of the house ;, most of the streets are 


rather narrow ; the pavement, however, is good. 
, a2 


20 Horticultural Jottanda 


There are numerous fountains, supplied by fourteen pumps, 
each of 11 in. diameter, wrought by the rushing waters of the 
Rhone, the whole of the machinery of which is made of wood. 
Yet they discharge water at the height of 100 ft. ‘The water- 
wheel, which is, of course, undershot, is enclosed in a dark 
wooden shed, standing, as the whole structure does, on wooden 
piles in the water. ‘The only light admitted into this shed is 
through and a little above the surface of the water; and the 
flashing and foaming of the bright blue water in the darksome 
gloom produces an effect almost magical. 

Two wooden bridges cross the Rhone, which divides the — 
town into two parts, and, with the adjacent extremity of Lake 
Leman, insulates one of them. 

The principal street runs nearly parallel with one of these 
branches, and near it a new quay is now being built for the 
small craft, which ply upon the lake, to moor at. From this 
lower part of the town there is but little view: but, on ascend- 
ing to the terrace walks, at the most elevated part possible, 
the view is extremely magnificent. It overlooks the whole 
city with its picturesque and scattered roofs, and its cathedral 
built on the spot where once stood a pagan temple of the 
sun. ‘The deep blue lake, stretching until the villages on its 
beautiful shores dip below the horizon; and with an atmo- 
sphere so pure, that village and church, tower and hamlet, 
piercing through the forestry, are seen as clear at forty miles’ 
distance as at five in our murkier clime. 

Jura’s lofty ridge, clothed almost throughout with dark 
pine forests, on one side, on the other the everlasting Alps, 
enwrapped in clouds and snow, embrace the matchless land- 
scape. Between them and the lake, on which many a sail 
expands its placid wing, terraces of nature’s sloping smile 
with every variety of sylvan beauty and rural elegance, and 
rejoice in an educated gentry and an intellectual and contented 
peasantry. - 

Geneva is wholly surrounded with walls and trenches, across 
which, in one place, a light and elegant wire suspension bridge 
is built; in the neighbourhood of which is the observatory, a 
small building, surmounted by two hemispherical domes of tin. 
The use of tin, that is, tinned sheet iron, is universal through- 
out Switzerland, for covering roofs, for eave shoots, trunks, 
&c.; and nothing can show more fully the exquisite purity 
and great dryness of the air, than that, in such exposed situ- 
ations, it retains its fine silvery lustre for years. By a 
mistaken and miserable parsimony, tin has been of late occa- 
sionally used for such purposes in these countries, even for 


of a recent Continental Tour. 9] 


government works, and in a short time presents nothing but 
a few shreds of rusty iron. 

Geneva has always been the peculiar abode of political and 
religious freedom; and, even now, the inhabitants approach 
nearer to those healthy and peculiarly English habits of 
mind, which free institutions produce, than perhaps any other 
people on the Continent. 

An admirable system of public instruction and public 
reward is, and has long been, in operation ; and its effects are 
manifest even on the lowest orders. 

In fine, “ were the world all before me where to choose” 
to anchor my bark of life, that choice should be at Geneva. 

In this rapid sketch, we must pass over any description of 
its library, with the homilies of St. Augustine, written on 
papyrus of the sixth century, its museum, with all the labours 
of Saussure and De Luc, and all the tempting glories of its 
elegant bijouterie, &c., to make an excursion to Ferney, and 
visit all that remains of the abode of him 

« Who was all fire and fickleness; a child 
Most mutable in wishes; but, in mind, 
A wit as various, gay, grave, sage, or wild, — 
Historian, bard, philosopher combined.” 
—need I say, of Voltaire ? 

The way from Geneva is through a rich and highly culti- 
vated country; corn and pasture, chestnuts and orchards, 
and here and there a vine or fig tree, embroider the face 
of nature into a garden. Well kept fences and hedge- 
rows skirt the shady roads, which not a little resemble 
some of the finer parts of our own country. The house in 
which Voltaire so long resided, where, he drew around him 
the learned and the noble of every nation, and where he re- 
ceived the ambassadors of the Russian empress, is now a 
tenantless mansion, the desolate goal of travelling curiosity. 

“¢ Decay’s effacing fingers ” press heavily on all around: 
the house is disfurnished, save of some mouldy pictures, a 
few chairs and tables, and a bed, said to have been Voltaire’s. 
The grounds were laid out in the old French style of garden- 
ing. A straight avenue, many of the trees of which have fallen 
to decay, leads to the house. 

The garden consists at present but of a long straight 
berceau[ bower walk of beeches, rampant and unclipped, where 
many of those works were composed which, while they de- 
lighted by their wit, poisoned the very sources of human 
morals. This walk, which commands a noble view of the 
high Alps, was the favourite musing-place of Voltaire. 

Near the house is a circular fountain basin, half choked 

c 3 


22 Horticultural Jottanda 


with rubbish and leaves, whose jet d’eau has long ceased to 
murmur; adark green moss covering every walk, and the old 
bosquet [thicket] is a jungle of weeds. 

The reflections suggested by visiting this spot are any 
thing but pleasant. Perhaps no man ever attained greater 
literary popularity during his lifetime than Voltaire: in fact, 
his death was caused by overwhelming admiration and public 
honours; yet few men’s memories are dwelt on with less sym- 
pathy, or fewer praises. Among all that deserves repre- 
hension, it is consolatory to find some traits related that 
bespeak benevolence of disposition. All that deserves praise 
in his voluminous writings is his poignant wit, and the elegant 
speciousness with which he was able to clothe the weakest 
sophistry. But he has made no discoveries, and has added 
nothing to the stock of human knowledge; and, however he 
may have been instrumental in promoting the misery, it is 
certain he has devised nothing to increase the happiness, 
of man. [Our own opinion of Voltaire, and of the good done 
by him, differs widely from that of our correspondent. ] 

A steam-boat now plies upon Lake Leman, from and to 
Geneva, touching at most of the principal towns upon the 
shores of this magnificent sheet of water. This lake, certainly 
the most beautiful and one of the most extensive in Europe, 
is of nearly the shape of a half-moon, the convex side of which 
is towards the north. It is about eighteen leagues in length, 
and four in breadth; its depth varies from 40 ft. to 900 ft. ; 
its height above the level of the sea is about 1000ft. It 
receives the waters of upwards of forty rivers, of which the 
Rhone is the largest. Owing to its great average depth, it 
never freezes, except near the edge in very severe winters. 
Similar agitations to those once observed in Loch Tay, in 
Scotland, have been seen in it; namely, sudden rising and 
falling of the waters, at particular spots, above and below their 
usual level, succeeded by oscillations, until they return-to 
their ordinary situations. This phenomenon may arise either 
from landslips, so to speak, taking place under the water ; 
that is to say, large masses of debris detached by the water 
falling from the sides of subaqueous precipices, or from the 
water suddenly forcing its way into large cavities or sub- 
aqueous caverns, which, from the nature of the strata, are not 
unlikely to exist_in Lake Leman. It contains a great many 
species of fish. I have not had an opportunity of examining 
the washes of its shores; but from their mineral composition, 
at least on the Jura side, they do not seem likely to afford a 
very rich botanical harvest. 

There is but a single islet in the lake, so small as to be 


of a recent Continental Tour. 23 


probably but the pinnacle of an immerged mountain; two or 
three bushes grow on it, nevertheless: it is nearly opposite 
the rocks of La Meilleraye. 

It was a morning of exulting sunshine and loveliness when 
we sailed from Geneva for Villeneuve, and so for some time 
it remained; but alas! fine weather, that most essential of all 
comforts to the traveller, soon deserted us. Behind the 
snowy Alps, that relieved themselves in dazzling whiteness, 
against the clear blue sky, a colossal nimbus, dark as despair, 
gradually rose, with rag@ed, whitish, thundery-looking rack 
sweeping about beneath it. Up it rose, and, with the rapidity 
of the lowering of the footlights in a theatre, it threw a cold 
gloominess over the before sunny landscape. The clear blue 
lake became black as ink. The great cloud now covered the 
whole heaven. ‘The rack seemed violently agitated over the 
crest of Jura. A few large heavy spitting drops of rain fell 
upon the deck of the steamer; a bright blinding flash of light- 
ning, and almost instantly a deafening thunder, that seemed 
to shake the very timbers of the ship, burst above us, and 
rumbled away in reiterated reverberations from crag to crag. 


* Quo maxima motu 
Terra tremit, fugére feree, et mortalia corda 
Per gentes humilis stravit payor.” 

* Barth feels the motions of her angry god: 
Her entrails tremble, and her mountains nod; 
And flying beasts in forests seek abode: 
Deep horror seizes every human breast ; 


Their pride is humbled, and their fear confess’d.” 
Dryden's trans. 


Down came the rain; and such rain as, in force and heaviness, 
I never saw equalled ; — 


“ Fervetque fretis spirantibus aquor.” 


“ And rocks the bellowing voice of boiling seas rebound.” 
Dryden's trans, 


After about an hour, its extreme violence subsided; the 
clouds descended gradually to about within 100 ft. of the 
surface of the lake, and there they hung for the rest of 
the day, copiously distilling a thick, small, drenching rain, 
something of the Scotch mist order. 

However, underneath this pluviose canopy, and that of an 
umbrella, we were enabled to see, though not to advantage, 
the many picturesque chateaus and villages past which we 
swept : — Copet, Lausanne, Vevay, Clarens ; names ever asso- 
ciated with the undying fame of De Staél, Gibbon, and Rous- 


seau. 
a 4 


24: Horticultural Jottanda 


“ Lake Leman lies by Chillon’s walls: 
A thousand feet in depth below 
Its massy waters meet and flow ; 
Thus much the fathom line was sent 
From Chillon’s snow-white battlement, 
Which round about the wave enthralls ;”’ 
and beyond which the beetling brow of the mountain over- 
hangs, in almost perpendicular abruptness, yet clothed, for 
the most part, with a rich verdure of ivy and procumbent 
shrubs. Small seems the height of that lofty ‘ donjon,” 
‘when matched against the loftier rock, that seems to frown 
haughtily upon it, the ancient abode of feudal tyranny, where 
once the magnanimous and patriotic Bonnivard chafed in un- 
just imprisonment. ! 

We arrived at Villeneuve tolerably soaked, and hav- 
ing had the comfortable assurance from one of those oracular 
personages sometimes met with, that there was no chance 
of the rain giving over for a week at least, and that there was 
small chance ef our being able to get into Italy, as the Sim- 
plon was mined, and an Austrian army of observation on the 

- Italian side. We shall see how these matters turned out by 
and by. I mention this, as a caution to young travellers like 
myself not to swallow all they hear, or to rule their actions by 
the gossip of every chance camerado [companion]. 

From Villeneuve a singular conveyance, intended as a 
stage coach, but very like a modern hearse, with leathern 
sides, and benching along them, and moreover a kind of 
narrow table along the middle, which seemed to concentrate 
the rain that poured through the roof upon our knees, started 
with us for the little town of Bex, pronounced Bay, and 
celebrated for its salt brine springs, which, as a wag once 
said, must be day salt. The road lay through a fine valley, 
completely flooded over, the trees alone standing out of the 
muddy water; and the road so obliterated, that we more than 
once ran the danger of being upset. Arrived at Bex, we 
hired a calash to carry us on to St. Maurice, which we arrived 
at just as it became dark. We stopped to change our horses 
in the main street; and in a second or two a party of twelve 
or fourteen men, with lanterns and poles, accosted us, with 
the pleasant intelligence, that the torrents had broken up the 
road to Martigny in many places, and that the Rhone had so 
uprooted and overflowed it, near the Pisse-Vache, as to 
render it extremely dangerous; and they wished to know 
whether we would have their escort. 

After endeavouring to find out what were the real difficulties 
of the way, we agreed to their offer; and, having obtained 
our change of steeds, we began to move slowly on, accom- 


of a recent Continental Tour. 25 


panied by our jacks-o’-the-lantern. We had not proceeded 
above a mile, when the noise of rushing water began to be 
heard, and presently we encountered the first, and, as it after- 
wards turned out, the worst torrent. At a place where the 
road was cut upon the declivity of a hill, which on one side 
rapidly declined, but on the other was a gentle but broken 
slope, a tremendous rain torrent was discharging itself over 
the road. It had already carried above two feet deep of 
shining slaty stone out over the road for the length of fifty 
or sixty paces; and in some places it had excavated deep 
hollows. At the other side of the road the water fell with 
prodigious noise over the abrupt bank; so that, in fact, it 
was the head of a temporary cataract. 

Some of the guides seized the horses by their heads; the 
rest stood fast at each side of the carriage; the driver whipped 
the frightened animals; and we rushed in. But, before we had 
passed over ten feet, one of the wheels sunk into a gully, 
so deep as to require the utmost exertions of the guides to 
prevent its upsetting; which, had it happened, we and it would 
assuredly have been washed down the abrupt bank over which 
the torrent rolled. For some time the carriage remained 
immovable, and was every moment becoming less mobile, 
from the wedging of the stones into the spokes of the wheels, 
which we could hear over the noise of the water rattling and 
clashing along the bottom. ‘The torrent here was of a depth 
and force that rendered standing in it difficult, and falling 
destruction ; so that our unstable equilibrium in our carriage, 
lying nearly on -its beam ends, in the momentary expectation 
of a ducking, was by no means agreeable. However, a sud- 
den and united exertion of our guides and horses dragged us 
out of the gully, and we got in a second or two out of the 
main rush, and soon after on dry land again. We passed 
two or three similar, but less formidable torrents, before we 
came to where the whole breadth of the valley seemed, as far 
as we could judge by the light, or rather the darkness, to be 
entirely flooded. ‘The rain had now ceased ; and through the 
water we were dragged, the guides poking out the road with 
lantern and pole. In a short time we began to hear the 
hoarse brayings of the swollen Pisse-Vache. The guides, 
whenever they communicated with one another, spoke pafors, 
which was unintelligible to us; but it soon became apparent, 
by their hesitation, that they had lost the road track, which, 
I suppose, was, as roads in the Swiss valleys usually are, 
without side fences. However, we got on without accident, 
if not without danger, until we came close opposite the cataract ; 
and then the water became so deep that we came to a full 


26 Horticultural Jottanda 


stop, while the guides endeavoured to find out the track. — It 
was still very dark; but on our right, apparently at about 
150 yards’ distance, we could dimly discern the whitish column 
of the foaming fall, and occasionally the wind wafted its wet- 
ting spray against our faces, and the water we were in was a 
deep and rapid eddying current. After a delay of about a 
quarter of an hour, during which our driver answered all our 
enquiries with ‘* sacres, ” and saintly invocations, the guides 
returned, having rediscovered the road a little farther on, 
lying high and dry, which by a lateral movement we soon 
gained, and then found that, in the way we were going, we 
stood a chance of a shower-bath beneath the Pisse-Vache 
itself, if not of a worse fate. 

Here we dismissed our hardy guides with thanks and suit- 
able remuneration; and, with a grateful “ bon sozr,” they pre- 
pared at once to return to St. Maurice by the way we had 
come. ‘The hardiness and endurance of the Swiss peasantry 
is truly admirable; and it is most worthy of being borne in 
mind, that in no instance will a peasant seek to be employed 
as a guide, on such occasions as this, unless his assistance 
is necessary, which, when offered, should, consequently, be 
always accepted. 

At about three o’clock in the morning we arrived safely at 
Martigny, wet, cold, and uncomfortable, and got into bed. 

Such was our first day’s journey in the Alps. ‘The amount 
of debris carried down by the torrents of one heavy day’s 
rain in the Alps is inconceivable. I shall be enabled, in the 
progress of this little tour, to adduce some remarkable in- 
stances of these and similar phenomena, which Lyell has so 
ably illustrated, and founded thereon his geological system. 

‘The morning appeared again, with all the beauty of the 
preceding one; and nought remained of the previous day’s 
inundation visible, but some muddy pools in the meadows, 
and the swollen Drance, rolling turbidly along past the 
town. 

Martigny, said to be the ancient “* Octodurum,” stands at 
the extremity of a level and fertile valley, surrounded by lofty 
mountains. ‘Ihe Drance coming from the passes of the Great 
St. Bernard, which we will hereafter describe, sweeps past on 
its way to join the Rhone farther down the valley. Imme- 
diately behind the town, boldly perched upon a projecting 
shoulder of the mountain, stands the ruins of the old castle 
of La Bathia, once a bishop’s palace. The town itself is a 
scattered irregular collection of houses of the meaner sort : 
the new square, however, has some in better style, and shows 
a marked improvement in taste; some of the streets are 


of a recent Continental Tour. 27 


tolerably well paved; and, in common with every Swiss vil- 
lage, or even chalet, it has got its fountains of crystalline 
water, which are usually supplied from elevated mountain 
springs, conducted through wooden pipes. In Martigny I 
first observed the custom, common throughout many parts of 
Switzerland, of hanging mistletoes over the house doors; a 
superstition for which I have not been able to get any reason 
rendered. Martigny, although sadly injured by the inun- 
dation of the Drance in 1818, a catastrophe which we shall 
more fully touch upon when treating of St. Bernard, is a 
rising little town, from its convenient situation for Alpine 
tourists, and the celebrity it has acquired from having been 
Napoleon’s head-quarters, attracting travellers. 

The valley of the Rhone, at the extremity of which it stands, 
is one of the deepest in Switzerland, surrounded, as it is, by 
mountains of great altitude, and its bottom but little more 
than 1000 ft. above the level of the sea. We may here remark 
an instance of the analogy that always subsists between the 
magnitude of rivers and the depth of the valleys in which they 
rise. One of the first objects that arrested my eye in Martigny 
was a crétin, or person afflicted with goitre. It was the first 
I had ever seen; and, as it happened to be a very bad case, it 
made a powerful impression on me. Perhaps, of all the 
ills that flesh is heir to,” none is more humiliating in the 
spectacle it presents of mind and body. As this disease has 
been the subject of much controversy in the learned world, 
and as few people are to be met with that have a correct 
notion of it, a short account of it, I presume, will not be out 
of place. Indeed, it seems to me that although this is 
intended chiefly for the use of gardeners, yet to exclude every 
thing but gardening from it, would be like a gardener tra- 
velling with his eyes obstinately shut, except when he was 
informed that a garden was in view. 

The disease called goitre, and by physicians broncho- 
cele, is seated in the glands of the throat, affecting, chiefly, 
the thyroid gland. Its appearance is that of a swelling, 
varying in size from a walnut to 20 or 25lbs. weight. The 
protuberance generally remains of the usual colour of the 
skin; but in bad cases it becomes of a livid red, and some- 
times suppurates. It is sometimes congenite, and frequently 
appears in after-life. It is not wholly confined to man; 
dogs and other quadrupeds have been observed labouring 
under it. 

It is not confined to Switzerland, but is or has been found 
in some parts of Italy, in Sumatra, in Tartary, in the East 
Indies, at Dresden, and in Derbyshire. It has been said not 


28 Horticultural Jottanda. 


to be indigenous at a greater elevation than about 4000 ft. 
above the level of the sea; but this is much disputed. 

The swelling of the throat affects women and children much 
more than men. Except in extreme cases, it is never painful, 
and then it is always attended with idiotcy more or less com- 
plete. I have scarcely seen a woman in Switzerland that has 
not an unusual fulness of flesh about the throat, which, 
although not deformed, seemed to have a tendency to goitre. 
Foreigners are not supposed liable to it. 

When incision is made into the diseased gland, it is found 
cellular, and filled with a viscous fluid, occasionally containing 
portions of calcareous or siliceous concretion. Various causes 
have been assigned for this remarkable affection; the principal 
of which are the following :— 1st, ‘That it is caused by drink- 
ing snow water. 2dly, By drinking water impregnated with, 
or holding in solution, siliceous or calcareous matter, which 
the water from glaciers generally is, although sometimes quite 
transparent. Sdly, That itis produced by the ardent heat and 
stagnation of the air of the valleys which is the opinion of 
Saussure. 4thly, That it is produced by an imperfect oxy- 
genation of the blood, from the rarity of the atmosphere in 
highly elevated countries affording a less quantity of oxygen 
to the blood, ina given time, than a denser atmosphere would. 
To all these theories cogent objections have been made, and 
the question still is matter of dispute. It is asserted, however, 
that of late the exhibition of iodine, as a remedy for the dis- 
ease, lias been attended with almost universal success. 

The chief objections to the first supposition is, that snow 
water differs in nothing from common water but in temperature. 
and that goitres are found where snow is unknown. ‘To the 
second, that in the majority of cases no secretion of solid or 
earthy matter is found in the gland. To the third, that the 
disease is found existing under various climates and states of 
the atmosphere. And to the fourth, that the rapidity of 
respiration is accelerated in a rare atmosphere, to compensate 
for the diminished supply of oxygen. 

However, amidst all this speciousness, the most universal 
coexistence, and probable cause of goitre, is: the drinking water 
loaded with earthy matter, which is the case with almost all 
the water of Switzerland; and, from my own observation, I 
know that the peasants pay no attention to what water they 
drink. I have seen them drinking the water of the Aar, a 
glass of which, when laid by, soon deposits a large quantity 
oF silex, and after some time an impalpable precipitate of 
tuta. 


Idiotey, as one of the frightful attendants on the disorder, 


On the Emigration of Gardeners. 29 


has been attempted to be accounted for by supposing earthy 
secretions lodged in the brain as well as in the glands of the 
throat. Silex has been found in the pineal gland of idiots. 

One remarkable fact respecting crétins remains to be 
noticed. ‘They are esteemed by their parents dlessings ; they 
are even said to prefer idiotic children, conceiving them the 
peculiar gifts of God, and certain of future felicity, because 
incapable of wilful sm. ‘These idiots are frequently married, 
and are always carefully tended in all their wants by their rela- 
tions. It is at least fortunate for these poor objects that such 
a superstition prevails. ‘They usually bask in the sun all the 
summer long, and are seldom employed at any occupation, 
however unintellectual. * . 

In next Number we propose passing through the Téte 
Noir into Chamouny, &c. 5 


Roserr Mater, 


Art. V. On the Emigration of Gardeners to the United States 
of America. By BENJAMIN Poore, Esq., of New York. 
Sir, 

In your Number for June last, your correspondent, now in 
this country (Vol. VIII. p. 288.), wonders you should advise 
gardehers and others to emigrate hither; and you very pro- 
perly give my name in the margin (p. 289.) as the person 
from whom you received the information as to price of wages, 
board, &c. 

Understanding your correspondent was in Albany, I have 
endeavoured to see him; not doubting, from what I had 
heard of him as a gentleman, he would be open to conviction, 
and correct, in his next letter, the mistake he had laboured 
under when he wrote to you last: but, he having left Albany, 
for the purpose of purchasing a farm, as I was informed, it 
was impossible for me to procure his address; and I must, 
therefore, beg of you to publish as much of this letter as you 
may deem proper, in answer to him. I am anxious for this, 
as, after the reception I met with from every class of society 
with which I came in contact during my sojourn in the land 
of my forefathers (it being universally marked with frank 
hospitality without the smallest claim to it, although at the 
risk which always attends the bestowing confidence 7 advance 
upon a stranger), I should feel very unwilling (partial as I am 


* Information on cases of goitre, and opinions on the causes of it, will 
be found in the Magazine of Natural History, vol. ii. p. 403. ; vol. ii. p. 191. 
446. 470.; vol. iv. p. 86. 89.—J. D. 


30 On the Emigration of Gardeners 


to America, though still proud of my English ancestors) to 
make any statement that would not be realised by every per- 
son emigrating here. I hope ever to remember, with grati- 
tude and respect, the many acts of kindness which myself and 
family received while among you; and shall always endeavour 
to promote the wishes of all who visit this country, either for 
a short period or a permanent residence. Numerous enquiries 
were made of us, while in Europe, as to the class of people 
most benefited by emigration ; and those enquiries often pro- 
ceeded from persons who, like yourself, had no wish to emi- 
grate themselves, but who are devoted to the welfare of the 
whole community, and desirous of imparting facts to such as 
have not the means of obtaining them by personal observation. 
To these enquiries my reply was always the same. To those 
who have a competent income to live in England, and no 
desire to increase the property intended for their heirs, Remain 
where you are; but to those wishing to increase their property, 
America opens a wide field in any branch of industry. Should 
they not wish to attend to any description of business, an 
opportunity is here presented of investing capital in stocks of 
various descriptions, or on bond and on mortgages of real 
estates; by which 6 per cent interest can always be obtained, 
and oftentimes 7 and 8, and sometimes 12 per cent per an- 
num. ‘To all who labour for a livelihood, and particularly if 
they have families, I say, Come without fail; and, should you 
meet with every obstacle imagination could picture, and you 
should, in fact, enjoy less of the comforts of life than in 
England, you would have the satisfaction of seeing your 
children educated, however poor you may be; and to know 
that the highest offices of honour or profit that a numerous 
and free people can bestow are within their reach ; and, also, 
that they are in a country where the standard of morality is 
higher, although no religious sect has a preference by law, 
than in any other portion of the world. Most of your readers 
know the currency of the United States is dollars and cents; 
100 cents making one dollar, and 444 cents the par value of 
the pound sterling. Of course, one shilling sterling is a frac- 
tion more than 22 cents. Multiply 22 cents by 7 (the num- 
ber of days in a week), and it makes 154 cents; for which 
sum, I say (and, from my own personal knowledge, without 
fear of contradiction), board, lodging, and washing can be ob- 
tained in any farming section of the twenty-four United States. 
I have been in twenty-two of the twenty-four, and, always 
feeling an interest in agriculture, am certain I am not deceived. 
I never intended to convey the idea that board could be ob- 
tained in our cities and their immediate vicinity at that price; 


to the United States of America. 31 


neither did I intend to quote the price of labour in such 
situations ; as living is higher, and labour also higher. Ihave 
paid as high prices for accommodations in hotels in this coun- 
try as I did at the London Coffee-house on Ludgate Hill: 
that is, however, no rule that a labouring man cannot live for 
much less here than in England. The labouring man receives 
as much wages in this country, in addition to board, washing, 
and lodging, as he obtains in England without either, as at 
least ninety-nine out of every hundred of the farmers in this 
country board their labourers; and I doubt much if they 
would give them 16 cents per day (say 8d.) in addition, if they 
would board themselves. ‘The living or board generally con- 
sists of coffee or tea, bread, cheese, butter, and cold meat, 
morning and night ; warm meat and vegetables, with a tart or 
pudding, for dinner; with good home-brewed beer or cider. 
I here subjoin a list of prices, which will enable at least 
housekeepers to see, and which will account for, the differ- 
ence in living in the two countries. 

I can safely say, I.never knew a single instance of any per- 
son wishing employment in the agricultural or gardening way, 
that could not readily find it. We often have emigrants 
arriving among us like the Irishman, who, soon after landing, 
saw a half-dollar in the street, but passed it, and observed, 
he wouid not pick up any thing less than a dollar in America. 
Such had better not come. An industrious man is as certain 
to make himself and family comfortable in this country, as the 
sun is to rise and set. I think I could call on many, now 
holding respectable rank among us, who would say they had 
not the value of one pound when they arrived here. ‘The 
spring is the best time to find employ at the highest rates ; 
but the host of gardeners you have sent out, or rather those 
who have brought letters to me, have, I believe, without ex- 
ception, found employ immediately. ‘The Messrs. Prince are 
always ready to extend a helping hand to those coming out of 
season, by giving them employ in their extensive establish- 
ment, if at a low price, to begin with. If they prove compe- 
tent, places are always to be had; and a character from them 
(being so well known here) is much more advantageous than 
any they can bring; although it is best always to encourage 
their bringing certificates, not only of a competent knowledge 
of their profession, but of good moral character. I employ 
English and Scotch farmers and gardeners entirely, and pre- 
fer them: not that they work faster, but that, always being 
accustomed to one kind of work, they execute it better, and 
generally work more days in the year. One word more as to 
board. I know an instance where six men were employed on 


32 Hints to Gardeners wishing to emigrate 


a farm for one year, and every article consumed charged ; 
and also fuel, rent of house, wages paid the maid for cooking 
and washing, &c.; which amounted, for twelve months, to 
347 dollars and 42 cents, or about 112 cents per week each, 
or 16 cents (about 8d.) per day. I now annex the market 
prices of articles here, and also in the interior. 


gD Gh Soins 
Flour, per 200lbs. - City 1 0 0 Country 18 0 
Wheat, per bushel - -0 4 6 2 = AB G 
Rye - - - -0 3 0 - - 2 0 
Oats - - -0 1 6 - = 40 
Indian corn - -0 2 0 - =o 40 
Loaf sugar, 6d. to 8d. ' Jamaica spirit, 5s. 
Brown sugar, 4d. to 5d. Domestic spirit, 1s. 6d. 
Coffee, 6d. to 8d. Madeira wine, 7s. to 24s. 
Candles (tallow), 4d. to 6d. Champagne, 2/. per dozen. 
Candles (sperm), Is. to 1s. 3d. Common light wines, 8s. per dozen. 
Candles (wax), 2s. 6d. to 3s. Spanish cigars, 4/. per thousand. 
Green tea, 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. American cigars, 10s. to 2/. per 
Black tea, 2s. 6d. to 4s. thousand. 
Rice, 2d. Tobacco, 3d. to 6d. per lb. 


Brandy, Cognac, 5s. to 6s. 6d. 


You will observe that I have put down but one list of the 
prices of groceries: in the country they afford them as low 
as in the city, as the expense of transportation is small, and 
their rents and other expenses less. I fear I have tired your 
patience, but trust your kindness will excuse me. 

Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 
New York, Oct. 15. 1832. BenJAMIN Poort. 


Mr. Prince, writing to us on August the 6. 1832, thus adverts to 
the preceding subject: —“ I notice (Vol. VIII. p. 288.) some remarks 
about the price of board here, and some difference of opinion. The price 
for real good farmer’s board for labouring men is | dollar 75 cents ; and 
for village board for labouring men from | dollar 75 cents to 1 dollar 
874 cents, seldom 2 dollars. I speak of this state, and of states east and 
south as far as the city of Washington : in the western states it is far less. 
In the city of New York, labourers’ board is usually 2 dollars to 2 dollars 
50 cents. The fact is, there is board at every price and kind; but what 
we speak of is good wholesome board.” — Cond. 


Art. VI. Hints to Gardeners wishing to emigrate to the United 
States of North America. By Mr. G. THorBuRN. 
Sir, 
Berne a well-wisher to gardeners, both from principle and 
interest (as it is by that craft I live), I think I may be of some 
service to those who intend coming to this country, by letting 


to the United States. 33 


them know on what footing they must stand on their arrival. 
We have neither lords spiritual nor temporal in this coun- 
try, with seventy thousand pounds sterling a year at their 
back; and who, to assist them in spending so much money, 
must employ perhaps thirty horsemen, a hundred labourers, 
and, it may be, thirty gardeners. Every tub here stands on 
its own bottom, and almost every man is his own gardener; 
and perhaps not in all America are there three gentlemen 
who employ two gardeners for the twelve months round. 
While our present system of government continues, as we 
have no hereditary estates, and property is consequently 
always shifting, we never shall have what are called overgrown 
fortunes. No man is able to“employ ten gardeners in this 
country; therefore, while the present system continues in 
Britain, gardeners will meet better encouragement there than 
in America. Such a thing as head-gardener, a grieve [bailiff], 
or overseer, is not known in this country, except some of the 
latter in the southern states, among the blacks.* But, not- 
withstanding all this, a gardener may live very comfortably 
in America; single men (that is, such as are not married) 
are generally engaged by the year, and receive from twelve to 
fifteen dollars a month, bed, board, and washing. It is ex- 
pected from them to raise vegetables sufficient to supply the 
family, to take the care of a few flower-beds, and sometimes 
a small green-house. If they are careful of their money, by 
attending church on Sunday, instead of travelling about in 
steam-boats, chairs, or frequenting ice-cream gardens, they in 
a few years will have enough to hire a few acres near the city, 


* Some of the young cockneys who have visited this country, with 
more money in their purses than wit in their heads, have returned and got 
some one to write for them a book, or, as they generally style it, A Journal 
of their Journey overland in America. These would-be authors, almost 
without an exception, describe in lively colours (and it is generally the 
only lively paragraph in the book) the inconsistency of the people and 
government of America keeping slaves in the south. This charge is true 
in the abstract ; but these men forget, or perhaps they never knew (as they 
are not deep read), that these slaves were introduced into America under 
the reigns of George I, II., and ILI.: rather an inconsistent act of a govern- 
ment composed of lords spiritual as well as temporal, and kings by the 
grace of God, defenders of the faith, &c.! So, when the Americans were 
old enough to govern themselves, they found they were saddled with this 
last curse of the European dark ages. But there is no way to get quit of 
them, except they do as the Hessians. and other white slaveholders do in 
Europe; that is, sell them from one master to another, to be shot at for 
so much per head. However, they are now sending them back to their 
Own country as fast as practicable ; and, in the mean time, they eat better, 
sleep better, are clothed better, and have less hard work, than the white 
slaves in Birmingham, Manchester, &c. Another generation, I confidently 
trust, will not find a slave from one end of the Union to the other —G. T. 


Vou. IX. — No. 42. D 


34 Weekes’s Mode of heating 


where they may commence market-gardening for themselves. 
I have known many who in a few years have established them- 
selves very comfortably in this way; and as land is cheap, 
and neither poor’s rates nor tithes to pay, if they mind their own 
business, they will get along very quietly. But I would not 
advise a gardener who has a family to come here, except he can 
bring with him 100 or 200 guineas ; for it often happens that 
some months go over his head before he gets into a situation. 
In the mean time, it takes considerable sums to support his 
family. If he has no children, and his wife understands taking 
care of a dairy, they may both get employed, and live in the 
same house with the family; he managing the garden, and she 
the dairy: but if he has sons grown up, or of the age of 18 
or 20 years, he might hire a piece of land near the city, and 
commence raising green-house plants for sale. I have known 
some do very well in this way, and among them is your worthy 
friend, Thomas Hogg. But, ifa man come here from principle, 
he will not regret being put to a little inconvenience, when 
he reflects that he has delivered his children from the burdens 
and bondage of Europe, and placed them where their worth 
and industry will be suitably rewarded. Some of the wise 
men in Britain, of late years, have been devising plans whereby 
to stop the growth of the poor population; but in America 
there is room and sustenance for the whole population of 
Europe for very many centuries to come. A man wants only 
health (38 years I have been in New York, and have not 
been one day confined by sickness), hands, a good character, 
and a good spade, to work his way in this country. 
Yours, with respect, 
New York, Sept. 15. 1832. Grant THORBURN. 


Art. VII. On heating Hot-houses by hot Water ; with some Account 
of anew Mode, the Invention of Mr. Weekes. By Mr. Main. 
Sir, 

As the Gardener’s Magazine is a receptacle for every thing 
relating to horticulture, I beg to present’a few remarks on 
the various plans of heating houses by hot water. 

Ever since the idea of using hot water as a medium of 
conveying heat was first entertained, various improvements 
have been suggested by professional engineers and cthers, ali 
approaching towards perfection in the form and efficiency of 
the apparatus employed. The first designs were ebjected to 
on account of their expensive massiveness, slow action, and 


£ot-houses by hot Water. 85 


the small saving realised in the article of fuel. ‘These at- 
tempts requiring nearly a dead level, and being therefore 
inapplicable to the irregular forms of many previously built 
hot-houses, soon called for improvements on the principle of 
conveying the heated fluid. The ascending tendency of 
heated fluids, and the impulsive effect thereon by cold, directed 
the artificer in the disposition of his conveying tubes; and by 
working in unison with these laws of nature, many most suc- 
cessful improvements have been made. Heating by steam, 
and admitting it into houses designed for the cultivation of 
tropical plants, is found to be a good plan; Kewley’s siphon 
principle answers every moderate purpose of forcing ; Cottam 
and Hallen’s improved boiler and conveying tubes are also 
perfectly efficient for pineries, vineries, peach-houses, or for 
any other similar erections; and Weekes’s flat tubes are par- 
ticularly convenient in houses built for the propagation and 
growth of exotic plants: so that it would appear, as every 
purpose of the forcing-gardener can be obtained by one or 
other of these several plans, there remains scarcely room for 
farther amendment. 

During the progress of these improvements, however, it 
soon became manifest that, when apparatus of large dimen- 
sions and great quantity of water were employed, though more 
slow in action, and more expensive in fuel, yet, when once 
thoroughly heated, the required degree of heat was evolved 
for a much longer time than it would have been by apparatus 
of a lighter and less capacious construction. This cireum- 
stance was particularly satisfactory to the anxious gardener, who, 
from this plan of heating, found that he could confidently take his 
nightly rest in peace. ‘The reverse of this, also, became appa- 
rent; namely, that, the smaller the quantity of water used, and 


the smaller the size of the boiler and circulating pipes, the more 


rapid was the circulation, and consequently the more intense 
the heat which was evolved. This discovery also combined 
at the same time cheapness of first cost, economy in fuel, and 
economy of space; very little room being required for the 
range of pipes. On this latter principle Mr. Perkins has 
executed some excellently convenient apparatus, alike credit- 
able to his genius, and satisfactory to his employers; and, it 
may be added that, with the addition of a properly constructed 
safety-valve, if this be practicable, his apparatus, for celerity 
of effect, and for local and temporary efficiency, stands un- 
rivalled. ‘This plan, however, is objected to by some gar- 
deners, because it does not possess that accumulation, or store, 
of heat, which constituted the chief excellence of the old- 


fashioned pipes and boilers. Whether this objection be 
D 2 


36 Weekes’s Mode of heating 


valid, or whether Mr. Perkins has made sufficient provision 
against all the accidents to which such apparatus is liable, 
does not as yet appear determined by public opinion. But if 
there be any such thing as a just medium between the fierce 
and fugitive effects of the light, and the more expensive and 
dilatory action of the heavy, apparatus ; and if permanence of 
effect be an indispensable property of such contrivances, in the 
business of forcing; then we would say that the newly invented 
boiler and apparatus of Mr. Weekes, horticultural builder, of 
the King’s Road, Chelsea, promise to be, as stated in the 
published opinion (Vol. VII. p.595.] of Mr. J. Knight, of 
the Exotic Nursery, Chelsea (for whom a small one has been 
erected), more effective than any other plan yet offered to 
public notice. 

This invention, though very different in construction, is 
evidently a union of Mr. Perkins’s principle of applying the 
fire, with a new arrangement of the conducting tubes. 
complicated boiler produces almost instant effect, and the 
complication of the circulating pipes not. only gives extent 
of radiating surface, but a sufficient bedy of heated fluid to be 
depended on, when the manager is asleep. ‘The whole is an 
obvious improvement of Mr. Weekes’s flat conductors; and 
the facility with which steam can be admitted into houses 
thus heated adds greatly to the utility of the plan. The 
narrow space occupied by Mr. Weekes’s pipes is also a great 
recommendation, whether as applicable to hot-houses of con- 
fined dimensions, or to public or private buildings. For the 
vestibules or halls of large mansions the invention is, more- 
over, appropriate; as the pipes may be cast into the most 
elegant shapes, and, with gratings or curtains of brass or 
other polished metal, the most ornamental pieces of furniture 
may be designed. ‘The conductors may be carried in any 
direction, and as well delcw the fireplace as above it. 

Whether we have reached, or are only approaching, the 
acme of this use of fire and water, for the purposes and ad- 
vancement of gardening, I know not; but, judging from what 
has already been accomplished, and contemplating the bound- 
less prospect before us, we may still expect results of which, 
at present, we have no kind of conception. 


J. M. 
6, Union Row, Chelsea, October, 1832. 


TE principle on which Mr. Weekes’s apparatus acts will be readily 
understood by the following diagram (jig. 1.), in which ais a section of 
the fireplace, surrounded by cast-iron tubes, the uppermost of which com- 


Fot-houses by hot Water. 37 


municates, by means of the upright tube 6, with the open vessel c; and the 
lowermost is connected in a similar manner by means 
of the tube d, with one or any number of tubes under 
the level of the boiler at e. The uppermost of the tubes, 
at e is connected by the tube f with the open vessel c. 
Now, all these tubes being so connected as to admit of 
water circulating freely through them, when a fire is 
made in a, the heated water ascends by its rarification 
into the open vessel ¢; and its place in the tubes round 
the fire is supplied by the colder water from e, through 
d; the heated water descending to supply its place from 
the open vessel e, by the tube f. The object gained by 
this arrangement is, the circulation of water below the 
level of the boiler, the limits of the depth below being 
that of the height of the open vessel above. To pro- 
duce this circulation, it is not necessary that the water 
should boil; for, as every heated particle will ascend to 
the open vessel c (which might be closed, and then the 
apparatus would be in principle the same as that of 
Mr. Perkins), its place must be supplied by a cold par- 
ticle from d. When the fire is urged so as to raise 
the water in the open vessel nearly to the boiling point, 
the circulation goes on with the greatest rapidity. 

It may be observed, that the substitution of tubes 
round the fire for a boiler over it, is by no means 
necessary for the success of this plan, though by tubes 
the rapidity of the circulation is greatly increased. Any close boiler 
with the tube 6 attached to its cover, and communicating with an open 
vessel fixed at any height, such as c, having another tube, similar to f, 
affixed to it, will circulate the heated water from such vessel to a point 
below the bottom of the boiler, nearly equal to the balance of atmo- 
spherical pressure, or, say 30 ft. below it. Messrs. Cottam and Hallen, 
and Mr. Timothy Bramah, have both circulated hot water on a large 
scale upon this principle, which is clearly laid down in Count Cha- 
bannes’s pamphlet; and in our review of it, Vol. IV. p. 28. If the 
reader will turn to p.30. of that review, he will there find an engraving, 
in which a is the close boiler, answering to Mr. Weekes’s tubes; 0, the 
ascending tube; c, the open vessel, answering to Mr. Weekes’s open 
vessel; and d, the descending tube, answering to Mr. Weekes’s tube, f. 
We mention this, not to undervalue Mr. Weekes’s apparatus, but merely 
to show that the principle has been known and acted upon since 1818. 
Mr. Weekes, who is one of the most ingenious men we know, has re-invented 
both the principle and the application of it ; and most sincerely do we wish 
him the success he so amply deserves. His plan is capable of varied and 
useful application, both in heating garden structures and dwelling-houses, 
manutactories, &c. ‘The tubes may be small, even as much so as those of 
Mr. Perkins; in which case, as the water circulates with very great rapidity, 
Mr. Weekes’s plan, like that of Mr. Perkins, may be adopted in situations 
where large pipes would be unsightly. 4 

There is one objection, however, to all plans of boilers composed of 
tubes, which is, that, as they cannot be cleaned out, they soon become 
coated with deposit in the inside ; and, consequently, extremely difficult to 
heat. An extre-application of fire then becoming requisite, the tubes or 
boilers are soon burnt cut. For immediate and striking effects, there is 
no plan equal to the tube system ; but, for permanency, none are equal to 
the open boiler, or close boiler with a manhole, having a cover that admits 
of easy removal, for cleaning out the interior. We have seen so many 

D3 


38 Circulation of Water by Machinery. 


boilers and tubes burnt out since the hot-water system commenced, that 
we deem it our duty to state, thus freely, our opinion. It is true that 
cast-iron tubes, such as those of Mr Weekes, or the wrought-iron ones of 
Mr. Perkins, may be renewed at very little expense; and also that, if 
distilled water only were used, the deposit would be much longer in taking 
place. In particular situations, therefore, the tube system may unquestion- 
ably be the best. — Cond. 


Art. VIII. A short Notice of Mr. Busby’s Method of circulating 
Water, hot or cold, by the Aid of Machinery. By the ConpuctTor. 


Tuis method is described at length in the Repertory of 
Patent Inventions for September, vol. iv. new series, p. 137. 
As it is not particularly adapted for hot-houses, we shall not 
go much into details; but simply state that the circulation is 
effected by an apparatus which may be compared to the wheel 
of a winnowing machine, and which is fixed on a perpendi- 
cular axis within the boiler (which must be circular), with its 
axis as nearly as possible over the end of a pipe which reaches 
from the circumference to the centre of the boiler. There is 
another pipe, which reaches no farther than the circumference. 
These two pipes may descend or be conducted to any distance, 
being united at their farther extremity so as to form only one 
pipe. The whole being then filled with water, the fan or cir- 
culator is made to revolve, by the action of the smoke and hot 
air of the chimney-flue, upon the fans of a common smoke- 
jack; and the result is, a rotatory motion communicated to 
the fluid in the boiler, the centrifugal force of which will so act 
against the fluid in the pipe terminating in the circumference, 
as to force the water down it, while it draws it out of the other. 
It is evident that, by this apparatus, either hot or cold water 
may be circulated with equal ease; the circulation depending 
entirely upon the centrifugal force, and the orifice of one pipe 
being in the centre, and the other in the circumference, of the 
boiler. The result is certainly such as would not easily have 
been anticipated. “ To prove the efficacy of his invention, 
Mr. Busby has had an apparatus, on his principle, fixed on 
the premises of Mr. Eckstein, ironmonger, in Holborn; and, 
on the 9th of August, a numerous meeting of engineers and 
gentlemen of science took place, to witness its performance. 
The furnace is situated in a workshop on the second floor ; 
and the heated water, urged by the circulator, passes through 
inch pipes to a receptacle in the open shop on the ground- 
floor, having descended 21 ft. below the furnace. The expe- 
riment succeeded completely, and gave universal satisfaction. 


Mode of equalising Temperature. 39 


«Mr. Busby considers his invention of general application; 
for, besides forcing the hot water downwards, an object never 
before accomplished, he causes so rapid a circulation in the 
ascending and level pipes, as to be enabled to employ tubes 
of much smaller bore than are now used. He can, besides, 
make water ascend and descend again about doors and win- 
dows, pass beneath floors; and, in short, he can carry his 
pipes in any direction whatever, without sensibly impeding 
the circulation of the hot fluid.”— C. A. B. (Rep. of Arts, 
vol. xiv. p. 143.) 

We were present on the occasion of the trial alluded to, 
and were much gratified. The following figure (fg. 2.), 
taken from the Repertory of Arts, will give a general idea of 
the apparatus, as exhibited at Mr. Eckstein’s : — 

a, A common fire-grate, fixed in a 
garret over the back shop. 6, The 
boiler, with the circulator within it. 
c, Smoke-jack wheel, fixed on the same 
axis with the circulator. d, Descend- 
ing hot-water pipe. e, Wase in Mr. 
Eckstein’s shop, 21 ft. below the garret, 
which is kept full of circulating hot 
water by the descending hot-water pipe. 
Jf; Ascending pipe, by which the water 
is returned to the boiler, to be re- 
heated. g, The garret floor. #, The 
shop floor. 

In heating dwelling-houses, and in cooling or heating liquors 
in manufactories, it is evident that this most ingenious inven- 
tion may be turned to good account. 


Art. 1X. A Mode of obtaining Uniformity of Temperature, and 
various. Modes of Engrafting. By Cuartes M. W : 
Sir, 

I am not aware that the following method of obtaining 
uniformity of temperature has been tried. I placed a small 
pot with a cutting from a delicate fairy rose in a 
larger pot (fig. 3. a), containing charcoal, with a 
double glass over it (b), so as to leave a stratum 
of air between the glasses. Although it was tried 
late in the season, and placed in a green-house 
without any artificial heat, yet it succeeded. The 


object in view was, to surround the pot by a non- 
D4 


40 Hints from Evelyn. 


conductor of heat, such as charcoal. The stratum of air 
between the glasses produced a similar effect. 

The plan of inarching with a cutting, mentioned in Vol. IIl. 
p- 29., suggested to me the idea of laying a cutting, and 
inserting the end in a bottle of water ( ig. 4. c). 
I have lately tried a cutting of Lonicera 
flexuosa, and I feel very sanguine of success. 

I have lately met with an old book written 
by the celebrated John Evelyn, which he 
calls Kalendarium Hortense. Iwas much sur- 
prised to find in it many remarks and advices 
which have from time to time been promulgated as novelties. 
It would appear that John Evelyn was the inventor of the 
method of warming green-houses with heated air. In the 
above book are drawings and descriptions fully explaining 
the way in which it may be effected. If I mistake not, 
patents were taken out some years ago for heating houses on 
that plan. In his remarks, under the month of July, he says: 
‘¢ Now with lime, brine, potashes (which is the very best of 
all, because, being cast on fine turf, it destroys the worms 
and improves the grass, which most other applications mor- 
tify) and water, or a decoction of tobacco refuse, water your 
gravel walks, &c., to destroy both worms and weeds, of which 
it will cure them for some years.” Soot is also recommended. 
He also says, ‘In wall-fruit borders, which should be 
4 or 5 ft. wide, plant neither herb or flower.” He mentions 
“that sick trees, as oranges, &c., are many times recovered 
by a milk diet; that is, diluting it with a portion of water 
discreetly adniinistered, as you find amendment.” I do not 
remember seeing this last recommendation in any late writer. 
It may, therefore, pass for a novelty. As to removing trees, 
of which so much is written in our time, he says, ‘ That 
you may transplant not only any fruit trees, but remove 
almost any of the foresters, even in the midst of summer, if, 
taking the trees with some mould about the roots, you imme- 
diately plunge them into earth made into a pap like mortar, 
keeping it fresh and under shade, and not suffering the 
ground quite to dry up and harden till rain comes down.” 
This very much resembles some of the modern plans. As to 
straw mats lately so strongly recommended, he says, in the 
month of November, ‘ Cover also your most delicate stone 
fruit and murals, screening them with straw hurdles, as long 
as the east and northern winds continue, even to the end of 
March, to be sure of the fruit. Stand, therefore, not so 
much upon the beauty, as for its preservation and pro- 
duction.” 


Romagny’s Shield-grafting. 41 


I think the following advice which he gives, though not 
entirely new, is good. [or plants not placed in the consery- 
atory, and not hardy, he recommends, “ that the pots should 
be placed two or three inches lower than the surface of a bed 
’ with southern exposure, having clothed them first with sweet 
and dry moss; but upon all warm and benign emissions of 
the sun, and sweet showers, give them air,” &c. 

I will not draw farther on the stores of the worthy John 
Evelyn; as, before I conclude, I wish to call the attention 
of your readers to a new ’ plan of grafting, called by Monsieur 
Verenaud Romagny*, écusson oreffe, or shield-grafting. It 

may “be universally practised on all the ligneous tribe, whether 
trees or shrubs, either on the old or on the new wood; but 
the latter is to preferred. The stock should be vigorous, 
and the sap by preference ascending: it need not, however, 
be very abundant; nevertheless this disposition is more 
advantageous than Thal. The stock, whether young or 
old, should be clean cut horizontally, from half an inch to one 
inch (according to the species) above a bud which is some- 
what developed, and the extremity of which should be pinched 
off; or a small shoot on which one or two eyes may be left. 
The bark is to be divided by a vertical cut, from one to 
nearly two inches in length, according to the size and strength 
of the stock, the distance from die bud or shoct near ine 
horizontal cut, and also according to the species, as from a 
to c, fig. 5. Hither the right or the left side of the bark, 

ee guided by the neighbourhood and posi- 
CG) , tion of the bud or shoot near the vertical 
LJ cut, is to be raised with the handle of 
sf), the budding-knife, taking great care not 

to touch or injure the opposite side. In 
Jig. 5.5 the left side (a) is raised opposite 
the bud (d), and the right side (d) re- 
mains untouched. ‘The graft should be 
taken from a healthy and vigorous sub- 
ject. It is a shoot of young wood cut to 
a certain length, according to the position 
of the eyes (gemmee) of the species. If both the graft and the 
stock are in perfect health and full of sap, three or even four 
eyes may be left. Ig. 6. has three at 7. The shoot is to be 
cut across, a little above the first superior eye; and, below, it 
must be cut sloping (en séfflet), as from h to & At the notch 
h, half the thickness of the wood is to be cut away. The 
side g will be oblique, and the side f quite straight. 7g. 7. 


* From the Recueil Industriel, par M. de Moleon. 


42 Romagny’s Shield-grafting. 


is a front view. It will be observed that 
at the notch 2 half the wood is scooped 
away, and that the graft has only a thin 
portion of wood two thirds of its length, 
and that at o only the peel or bark re- 
mains, also that the sides f and g (jig. 6.) 
have only bark or peel on their edges. 
The graft thus prepared will slide into 
the opening prepared in the bark of the 
stock (fig. 5.), so that the edge of the 
bark of the graft joins the edge of the 
u bark (6 c) in the stock. The notch 

(x) resting on the horizontal cut of the 

stock, and the bark of the stock (a c, 

Jig. 5.) almost covering the graft. Held 

in this position by the thumb and finger 

of the left hand, it should be tied tight 

with bass, covering the whole of the 
opening. Afterwards apply grafting-wax, * to prevent the 
contact of the air with the recent wounds of the stock and 
graft. The graft may now be left to itself. The only care 
which it requires is, that 
the stock should be freed, 
from time to time, of any 
buds which might absorb 
part of the sap; and sup- 
port given, if the graft grow 
very rapidly. Figs. 8. and 
9. show an advantageous 
modification of shield-graft- 
ing, which M. Vergnaud 
Romagny believes has not 
been practised. It always 
succeeded, and is prefer- 
able to the other mode, 
when operating on the 
young wood, or with the 
more delicate species. ‘This modification consists in preserving 
an eye on the lower part of the eraft, as at 1 m, fig. 8., and 


* The following receipt for grafting-wax will be found good, the heat of 
the body or the mouth rendering it sufficiently soft for use : — Take common 
sealing-wax, any colour, except green, one part; mutton fat, one part; 
white wax, one part; honey, one eighth of a part. The wax and the fat 
to be first melted; then add gradually the sealing-wax in small pieces ; 
keep it constantly stirred; and, lastly, the honey, just before taking it off 
the fire. It should be poured hot into paper or tin moulds, and kept 
slightly agitated, till it begins to congeal. 


New System of labelling Plants. 43 


to let it appear through an opening left in the folds of the 
bass, as at p gq, jig. 9. It will be seen that the graft, by 
this method, only bears two superior buds; and that the third, 
left on the lower part, forms the shield, and should be freed 
from wood, according to the species and to custom. The 
operations are the same; but the latter plan offers more chances 
for the success of the bud, without interfering with the graft. 
The results of a great number of trials of the new methods 
are given by M. Vergnaud Romagny. I will not take up 
more of your valuable space than to state that he considers 
the result to be more than a gain of one half the time 
usually required by the ordinary mode of grafting; and that 
these sort of grafts resist the effect of cold. Various kinds of 
delicate roses resisted an intense cold, while some by the old 
method, even of two or three years, perished. 

Would steam injure fruit trees, if applied by the machine 
used for destroying bugs ; and would it not destroy the A’phis 
lanigera ? I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

London, Dec 11. 1832. CuarLes M. W——. 


Arr. X. On a new System of labelling Plants in living Collections. 
By Ropert MALLET, Jun. Esq. 
Sir, 

A NEARER approach than has hitherto been made to per- 
fection, in all the requisites for good labelling, I suppose 
myself to have made, and am about briefly to describe. ‘The 
first object to be aimed at, in a good label, is immutability 
by the effects of climate and seasons; the next, quantity of 
information, and perspicuity in the mode of conveying it. 

Labels have hitherto been made either of lead, iron, wood, 
or pottery. Lead bends, and is liable to be stolen ; iron rusts, 
and destroys the paint; wood rots; and pottery moulders, 
unless so hard as not’to receive paint, and is always clumsy. 

Common paint has been used for the nomenclature of all 
but-the latter, which have, I believe, been stamped. 

The labels I propose are composed partly of iron, partly of 
copper and enamel. Start not, reader, nor exclaim “ Expense !” 
for I purpose to show that the original and entire cost of this 
will not be greater than the sum expended in two or three 
years renewing the present defective ones. To proceed: my 
label consists of a cast-iron ring, elongated at one side into a 
prong, to stick into the earth; cast, into the centre of which 
is a disk of copper, not more than one twentieth of an inch in 


44) New System of labelling Plants 


thickness, which is covered on both sides with a coat of hard 
white enamel, on which latter the letters are also enamelled. 
The situation of the copper plate, in the cast-iron rim, is 
seen by the-section, fig. 10. a. The mode of casting the 
former in the latter is perfectly simple. 
When taken out of the moulding sand, 


the copper will be found having a slight 
MEZEREUM. 


L. C. 8. 0.1. } curvature, which is to be removed by 
THYMELEZ. ff 


a few blows of a hammer. 

The contraction of the rim in cool- 
ing is the cause of this, and has the 
advantage of completely preventing 
their being stolen, to sell as old cop- 
per; for the latter is held so tight that 
nothing but breaking the iron rim into 
small fragments can possibly detach 
it, and, together, they are unsaleable. 

The hard white enamel is next to 
be applied, on both sides of the copper, 
and fused; an operation familiar to every 
clock-dial maker; after which the letters are to be painted in 
enamel colours, and burnt in. ‘The final operation is then to 
cover the iron rim and prong with a varnish, to prevent rust. 
An easily attainable and perfectly efficacious one is to be found 
in a mixture of ground black lead with the residuum which 
is drawn out of the retorts used in the manufacture of oil gas. 

It is a black, solid, shining asphaltum, fusible at about 300° 
Fahr., and resisting, when applied with the black lead in 
sufficient quantity to give it a body, all vicissitudes of seasons. 

To apply it, the labels are to be heated slowly in an oven, 
or hot sand, to about 200° Fahr., and the varnish, being pre- 
viously melted in a fit vessel, is to be applied with a hard 
brush. 

So much for the material of the label: now for what it 
bears. It is obvious that the more information can be con- 
veyed bya label, consistent with due simplicity, the better. All 
that is generally useful, however, and that is not evident by 
the locality of the plant in the general arrangement of the 
garden, may, | think, be comprised as follows ; viz.,— 1. The 
place in the Linnzean system; 2. The place in the Jussieuean 
system; 3. The genus and species; 4. ‘The habitat, and year 
of introduction, if an exotic; cr the habitat, and year of dis- 
covery, if a native; 5. The month of flowering; 6. The 
colour of the flower; 7. The number in the catalogue of the 
garden. On the principal face of the label are enamelled the 
places of the plant in the Linnean and Jussieuean systems, 


zn living Collections. A5 


with the genus and species; on the other, the year of intro- 
duction or discovery, and the habitat. 

The time of flowering is shown by the labels, being multi- 
lateral figures whose sides correspond in number to that of 
the month in the year, reckoning from January inclusive ; 
the Jabel for which is a circle or ellipse, as being the only 
regular figures bounded by one line ( fig. 10.6); for February, 


= 


So EEE 
SSSR 


CHEIRANTHUS 
CHEIRI. 
LIN. CL. 15. 
CRUCIFERAE. 


L.C, 13. 0.4. 
RANUNCULACER. ¥ 


of two segments of circles( fg. 11. c); for March, some modi- 
fications of a triangle (fg. 11. d); for April, a square or rect- 


IRIODENDRON =} |2| pestis = 

TULIPIFERA. Ef ; 2 
L. C. 13. 0.5. & A 1.0.13 0.3 SEA CLIFFS. — 

= : 1815. e 
LS 


y 


angle (fig. 11. ¢); for May, a pentagon (fig. 12.f); and so 
on (figs. 12, 13. g to m). ‘The colour of the flower is shown 


KERRIA 
JAPONICA. 


by the letters being all enamelled on the white ground of that 
colour, or, if white, on a coloured ground. 

The number in the catalogue is cast in raised figures, on 
the edge of the iron rim. It is obvious, that much other in- 
formation might in this way be easily conveyed, e. g., whether 
the plant was deciduous or evergreen; by the rim being 


46 Gardener’s House on the North Side 


serrated or plain, and that the kind of information might be 
changed according to the application of the label. The prin- 
cipal facts in favour of this mode of labelling are, Ist, absolute 
immutability from climate and seasons ; 2d, no inducement to 
steal for sale, except as a label; 3d, beauty of appearance ; 
4th, quantity of information simply given. 

The argument of expense against it is set aside thus: — A 
common cast-iron label costs about 3d.; the painting costs 
2d. more, and it requires to be painted twice a year, to keep 
the iron from rusting and the letters legible; so that at the 
end of two years the label has cost 11d., and will cost 4d. 
more every year it exists: but an enamelled label can be 
made, where a number are required, for about 9d., and 
never costs a halfpenny afterwards. 

Any argument on the score of difficulty of manufacture I 
am prepared to rebut. It may be said that the label, being 
lettered on both sides, would be inconvenient to read: this is 
obviated by placing it perpendicularly in the ground, with 
the plane of the label transverse to the line of plants, and 
between them and the walk or alley; by which arrangement 
a person walking along can see each face equally well. 

This method is obviously applicable to inside plants, in 
which case the iron rim might be dispensed with. 

Rozert Matter. 
Ryder Row, Dublin, Sept. 23. 1830. 


Art. XI. Design for a Gardener's House, to be situated on the 
North Side of a walled Kitchen-Garden. 


Tue whole of the living-rooms of this house are on one 
floor, about 4 ft. above the level of the garden; and, below 
this floor, there are, a cellar for beer and roots (jig. 15. a); 
a wash-house (6), with an oven and boiler, the former for 
baking, and at the same time heating the floor of the kitchen, 
passage, and office on the floor over it; and the found- 
ations (cc). The living-floor contains a parlour (d) ; a master 
and mistress’s bed-room (e); children’s bed-room (f); office 
(g); and kitchen, with pantry and closet (4). ‘The exterior 
offices are obvious, and need not be particularised. 

The architecture of this dwelling (jie. 14.) is in the plain- 
est possible style; the object being, to produce a cheap, and, 
at the same time, commodious and comfortable house, for a 
master-gardener, with a wife and two children. 


of a walled Kitchen-Garden. 


14 


eS 
Si nS ae 


Tim TOT ALL CUCU TARTU 
eS = 


a a RTT 
aa iio or 
q 


¢ 15 
V —— Ss == 
7 a | Vy 
D I A ff 
A pez) g | p 
] | 'Yy ¥ 
| a Pl ib 
if V oy ie / 
@ iY 
| = : 
a,j So / Cla 
= 
VE le = on 
pice LOIRY, / L 7 a 
Le rete 7 7 c. | e 7, 
eS a L 
ak Lig. - : - 
= oS aha Tz. — 
ea \ 
[ a 
\ 
peepee sy ue ESE 


30 Ft 
Ft. 10 0 


48 On the Pruning of Forest Trees, 


Arr. XII. Physiological and Practical Remarks on the pruning 
of Forest Trees, particularly of the Scotch Pine. By Mr. W. 
TAYLOR. 


Sir, 

From what you have published (Vol. VIII. p. 303.) as the 
forerunner of Mr. Main’s book on forest trees, there is reason 
to anticipate that it will be a valuable work, as he is a man 
of science and practical experience. Such a book is much 
wanted ; and it is to be wished that it may treat of soils and 
subsoils scientifically, as well as of trees. I have just read an 
article in Chambers’ Edinburgh Journal on trees, wherein we 
are told that no science was known or applied in arboricul- 
ture until 1828, when Sir H. Steuart published his Planter’s 
Guide. It also advises landowners to form an arboricultural 
society ; and adds, ‘* Were phytological science to become a 
favourite study with them, then, of course, gardeners and 
nurserymen would acquire it..... Before many years pass 
over us, we are confident that a revolution must take place in 
our arboricultural skill and science, as complete as in political. 
The future, compared with the present race of our planters, 
will then be like that of mariners who have long been at sea 
without a compass; or like men working in the dark, when 
the light of the sun was let in upon their labours!” Mark 
this, ye, my brethren of the old school, who still maintain that 
practice is every thing ; and who will not go beyond, nor alter 
from, the system you were taught. Yes; all in the dark, not 


=) 1.) 
one redeeming man among us. Much has been discovered by 
men of learning and science, which could not have been ac- 


complished by practical men, from their want of education ; 
but, more so, from want of means and time to try expe- 
riments. Well: but do men of science see clearly through 
all nature’s laws? It seems not. At any rate, they differ in 
opinion, for instance, on the cause of the ascent of the sap ; 
and whether or not fruit trees can be perpetuated by graftings. 
But the great light is soon to be let in upon us, when our 
great men, in imitation of Peter the Great, learn the arts, 
trades, &c.; turn their old swords “ into pruning-hooks, and 
learn the art of war no more.” Establish a horticultural 
society in all its branches (pity it was not dpne fifty years ago), 
at which all must pass before they can obtain situations as 
kitchen-gardeners, foresters, or flower-gardeners. ‘Therefore 
it is time for those who do not think themselves already fully 
qualified, to begin to get their catechisms ; for, if we are not 
able to pass the “ Hall,” we shall be turned to making roads 


° . . . co} . 
in forests, and transplanting large trees. This will be no joke. 


particularly of the Scotch Pine. 49 


In this awkward squad, besides men of the blue apron, there 
will be not a few farm overseers, carpenters, cartwrights, &c., 
who all were foresters before they were examined and found 
wanting. 

I have no doubt that your able correspondent, Mr. How- 
den, will pass; but his new bill will not pass, unless it be 
amended. He does not put a proper value on leaves and their 
functions. He knows that the taste of grapes, gooseberries, 
and other fruits, is not very palatable when the trees have 
been stripped of their leaves either by man or beast; and has 
he not seen forest trees, whose leaves had been blasted in the 
beginning of summer by storms, stunted in their growth; 
also beech, and other nonreproductive leaf trees, stunted for 
years by severe pruning? His stripping a tree of its leaves in 
summer puts me in mind of a paper forwarded to the Lon- 
don Horticultural Society, by Sir John Sinclair, from “ Sir 
Brook Boothby, then at Brussels; to say, that he keeps his 
peach trees free from the red spider by plucking off every leaf 
the moment he sees any on it.” On the other side, it must 
be admitted that a tree can have too large a head; and all 
large rambling branches are robbers as well as feeders of the 
tree. Such branches should be foreshortened, and are not to 
be seen on a well-pruned tree. A newly transplanted tree, 
shrub, or even a‘cutting, may have too many leaves; by 
which too much of its sap, in a dry season, is carried off b 
evaporation before new spongioles can be formed to afford a 
sufficient supply. 

We of the heath and fir covered mountains are still of opi- 
nion that thick planting and timely thinning is the better treat- 
ment of the pine tribe. I state, without fear of its being called 
exaggeration, that, on an average, one man has upwards of a 
million of those trees to care for, of all ages. If he get assist- 
ance to thin, it is all he can expect, and all that is necessary *: 
and the best Scotch pines ever grown in Scotland were nei- 
ther pruned nor thinned. 

In the Quarterly Journal of Agriculture, a year or two ago, 
there is an essay on pruning deciduous trees, by a Mr. 
Gavin Cree, nurseryman at Biggar. I know nothing of the 
man, but his system appears to me to be of the very best; 
and, were it generally followed, there would be less over- 


* Scotch firs, planted on a suitable soil, at 34 ft. distant, or 4500 per 
Scotch acre, and properly managed in thinning, will be in general clean- 
stemmed 20 or 30 ft. up before they are 50ft. high, and of a size for 
common rafters. Were a few extra men, with 30 ft. ladders, set to prune 
200 acres of them higher, it would not pay, unless they were of more 
value than at present. — W. 7’. 


Vou. 1X. — No. 42. E 


50 Causes of Ignorance in Arboriculture, 


pruning, no-pruning, and rot-tree-pruning. I do not think 
you published Mr. Cree’s essay; perhaps you will. Not having 
been able to see the four Numbers of this Magazine preceding 
the last two, I am ignorant of what made John Howden give 
his new bill. Hoping he will come to the scratch again (for 
we cannot do without him), I remain, Sir, yours, &c. 
Thainston, Nov. 10, 1832. W. Taytor. 


Arvt. XIII. Observations on some of the principal Causes why the 
most important Parts of the. Science of Arboriculture, pruning 
and thinning, or rather the System to supersede the Necessity of 
much pruning, are not more generally known, or at least practised ; 
with Hints for the Removal of these Causes. By Mr. W. BiL- 
LINGTON. 

Sir, 

From reading the numerous conflicting opinions on the 
science of arboriculture, published in the Gardener’s Magazine 
and some other works, which have come under my observation 
within the last few years, I am induced to offer a few remarks, 
which you are at liberty to publish in your Magazine, if you 
judge them worthy a place in such a useful publication. What 
has induced me to resume my pen is the extraordinary, yet still 
too common, opinion Mr. Howden has advanced relative to the 
subject, in Vol. VIII. p.560., which heterms the ¢rue system ; and 
of which he says, that he will stand or fall by it. But I can 
assure Mr. Howden, that it is not with any desire to bring him 
to the “ scratch” again, as he terms it, that I notice what he 
has advanced on the subject, but to prevent others from im- 
bibing or retaining such erroneous opinions. For possibly I 
may not see what he can further say about it; or, if I do, I 
shall probably not notice it. He may, from his ready talent 
at humour, get the laugh against me; but, I trust, I have 
philosophy enough not to mind such a method of “ shutting 
people’s mouths ;” as my desire is to be useful to others as far 
as Iam able, without hurting any one, and to seek for the 
true knowledge of the subject, in order to divulge and spread 
it as clearly and extensively as I am able. 

Seeing that there are such clashing opinions (let them be 
called systems, methods, or what you please), I am put in 
mind of a circumstance which I have proved in myself, and 
which may tend to elucidate my remarks a little. Some years 
ago, I purchased a famous British Herbal, that professed to 
cure all manner of diseases incident to mankind, by the 
virtues of herbs, upon an entire new plan, by a Mr. J. Ingle. 


with Hints for their Removal. 51 


Well, after the specification of a disease, there are the ge- 
neral and particular remedies, internal remedies, and external 
applications, preventives, preservatives, abaters, provokers, 
with namerous and different herbs, and methods to effect the 
object ; and, as Shakspeare says, 


“ like a man to double business bound, 
I stand in pause which [I shall first begin, 
And both neglect.” 


Consequently, among so many, not knowing which to prefer, 
I neglect all, or adopt any remedy that another recommends. 
So, I am afraid, the case is too often with respect to pruning 
and thinning of plantations, when the owner has not a com- 
petent knowledge of it himself; and this is very rarely the 
case. 

Mr. Howden says, *“* Some people are of opinion that the 
branches, twigs, and leaves assist the growth of timber; and 
a certain author, Mr. Withers, compares the leaves of trees 
to its mouths,” and ‘* advises such authors to shut their 
mouths till they can open them to better purpose.” Mr. 
Howden says he should rather have called the leaves 
“nostrils, or mere excrements,” because the trees discharge 
them annually. It would thus appear that trees have a won- 
derful power of retaining their excrements for six or eight 
months. I happen to be one of those persons who think that 
the branches, twigs, and leaves do assist the growth of timber ; 
also, that the leaves of trees take in nourishment for the sup- 
port and increase of the wood, or timber, if you like; which 
persons Mr. Howden affects to hold up to ridicule, and 
desires to shut their mouths, but not their eyes or ears, I 
presume, to hear or see what he says upon the subject. 

Some of our physiologists say that leaves have a power of 
absorbing and imbibing nutriment from the gases in the atmo- 
sphere; which a common person, like myself, who pretends to 
none of that great learning, would term, to take in or to draw 
in nourishment, when discoursing with persons of his own 
size or make; but not to mean, to eat, chew, or swallow it. 
If Mr. Howden had read carefully what Mr. Lindley (the 
professor of botany) has advanced on these two subjects in 
his late lectures, extracts of which have appeared in the three 
last Numbers of your Magazine [Vol. VIII. p. 380., 507., 
615.], letting alone other authors, he would not have been so 
ready, perhaps, to have ridiculed, and desired him, with others, 
to shut his mouth, if he could open it to no better purpose ; 
nor, had he read Mr. Main’s remarks on the use of branches 


and twigs in forming timber, whose ideas and rules for 
E 2 


52 Causes of Ignorance in Arboriculture, 


pruning, and the functions of branches, are in substance the 
same that I published some years since. 

I cannot see the analogy of Mr. Howden’s comparison of 
the leaves of a tree and the wool of a sheep: “ that we might 
divest the tree of its leaves in summer without injuring it, if 
we could keep the sun from blistering it.” This is wonderful, 
if it were true ; as it is evident a tree could make little, if any, 
progress, till it had produced fresh leaves. 

Mr. Howden further asserts that * the branches are only 
the offspring of the tree;” and quotes St. Paul to prove it. 
That “they draw up sap only to enrich themselves,” and 
that they are “ complete bloodsuckers ;” consequently, that 
they add nothing to the stock whence they sprang: a very 
ungrateful progeny, to be sure, if they return nothing ! 

Before I quote any author who seems to be of my opinion, 
to corroborate what I shall have to say, I would just premise 
that there appear to be but three ways, as I humbly conceive, 
by which the trunk and branches of a tree are increased in 
bulk. First, by the descending radicles, roots, filaments, 
tissue, or fibres, as they are variously termed, from the leaves 
and leaf-buds annually, as Dr. Darwin supposed. Secondly, 
from ascending fibres from the root or collar upwards. Or, 
thirdly, in a horizontal direction, from the sap only, in its 
ascension and descension, or rather flowing state, adding to 
the trunk, like paint or plaster to a wall, or, as Mr. Howden 
says, like as candles are increased in thickness by frequent 
dipping. In that case, one would suppose every part of the 
stem, branch, and twig would thicken equally alike, which, we 
find, is not the case. Then, if timber is not increased by 
something that grows longitudinally, it must, according to 
Mr. Howden and others, be by the condensation of the sap, 
in the fashion of candlemaking. Query, Were this the case, 
would not timber, when dry, break to pieces like candles ? and 
if it would, Mr. Howden, perhaps, can inform us of what use 
it would be. 

Now, we see, as the young shoots ofa tree increase in length, 
they increase in thickness, from the extremities downwards or 
backwards; so also with the branches and the trunks. But 
if the increase in thickness of the timber and branches were 
from the root upwards, one would suppose, by analogy, that 
the case would be reversed, and that every part of a tree 
would be thicker upwards. What sort of trees they would 
be, I cannot conceive, or how they would be supported in the 
earth: there must be cleverer men, I presume, than either 
Mr. Thom or Sir Henry Steuart, to transplant and support 
them afterwards. 

There is a nectarine tree in my garden, which I have been 


with Hints for their Removal. 53 


examining, to refresh my recollection. The part above where 
it was budded is more than one third thicker than the part 
below. Now, the stock must have been of a considerable thick- 
ness before the bud was inserted ; therefore, if the tree were 
increased in thickness from the root upwards, or, as I have 
suggested, horizontally from the bark to the alburnum or stem 
by the sap only, each part contiguous must have thickened 
alike, and the stock must still have been the thickest part, 
particularly if all the sap ascends from the roots every spring. 
As, however, this is not the case in the instance noticed, and in 
many similar ones, it would appear that wood is increased 
from the top downwards; as it is well known that some 
stocks, when the engrafted scion and stock are nearly alike 
in their habits, increase regularly in size with the engrafted 
part, to the very point of union with the roots, the same as 
trees raised from seeds or cuttings: hence it appears clear, 
that the branches, twigs, and leaves do increase or assist the 
growth of the timber. 

I can understand perfectly what Mr. Howden says of 
** having seen a weeping ash getting on to the size of a 
pyramid, on a common ash stock with a bole not fit fora 
ladder.” ‘This is an instance of the disproportion which I 
have been endeavouring to elucidate. Mr. Howden’s remarks 
on another ash tree which he has seen, that was planted at 
the same time with that named, “ with a top that barely 
makes room for three rooks’ nests, yet with a trunk fit for 
sawing into 11-inch planks, I cannot comprehend. As Mr. 
Howden does not inform us whether it ever had any more 
branches, or when it was divested of them, nor what length 
of time it would take to make 22-inch planks, with no more 
branches than would contain three rooks’ nests, it would be 

well if Mr. Howden would explain that to those whom he 
advises to * shut their meuths.” 

In Mr. Lindley’s late lectures on the relation of botany to 
horticulture, I observe that he appears to have the same opi- 
nion that I have on these subjects, which I take the liberty 
to quote : — 

In Lecture 1. (Vol. VIII. p. 382.) he says : — * Leaf-buds 
(so called to distinguish them from flower-buds) in trees, are, 
in fact, trees in embryo, and afford the only certain means of 
multiplying varieties. ..... . Leaves may be called the lungs 
of plants ; as, through them, the sap is exposed to the infln- 
ence of the atmospheric air. ‘They are furnished with pores 
(vulgarly, perhaps, called mouths), which can imbibe nou- 
rishment as well as throw off superfluous moisture.” 

Lecture 5. (Vol. VIII. p. 619.) :—* The sap, having reached 

E 


2 
>) 


54 Causes of Ignorance in Arboriculture, 


the leaves, is there exposed to the action of the atmospheric 
air, much in the same way as the blood in lungs; with this 
important difference, that, while animal blood principally 
absorbs oxygen, and gives out carbonic acid gas, cic. eae 
sap appears to have the greatest affinity for carbonic acid, 
and to be compelled to give out a portion of its oxygen, 
before it is fit to afford proper nourishment to the plant. 
As the sap, during the process of its elaboration in the 
leaves, has not only to imbibe certain qualities, but to throw 
off others, plants, like animals, are provided with the neces- 
sary organs for a double kind of respiration [which Mr. 
Howden would rather have called excrements. Have excre- 
ments organs?]. ‘These functions, however, are never per- 
fectly performed without the assistance of light. When a 
plant is exposed to the full action of the sun’s rays, it gives 
out pure oxygen, and absorbs carbonic acid ; which is after- 
wards decomposed in the plant, the carbon being only re- 
tained. Carbon has been proved to be essential to the 
existence of plants; and it appears that their vigour depends 
upon the quantity of carbonic acid they are enabled to ab- 
sorb.” 

Lecture 6. (p. 621.) : — “ He had before stated that leaves 
absorb carbonic acid during the day, and oxygen during the 
night, forming carbonic acid in proportion to the oxygen 
they have absorbed ; that they decompose their carbonic acid 
during the day, setting free the greatest part of the oxygen it 
contains, and retaining the carbon, which appears to afford 
them food; and that this process is necessary to their vege- 
tation, though the exact manner in which it acts is at present 
unknown to botanists.” 

Thus far Mr. Lindley, on the use of the leaves to imbibe 
nourishment or food for the support of trees; consequently, 
to assist in the growth of timber. Before I proceed to the 
other question, Whether the branches and leaves are the 
principal means of the increase of timber, or are perfectly 
useless to this end, I would just beg leave to ask Mr. How- 
den, and others that are of his opinion (as I have asked 
before in my publications), whether trees that grow in hori- 
zontal fissures of sandstone and other rocks, with immense 
thicknesses or layers of rock over and below their roots, and, 
of course, no soil, and where no rain or dew can get at their 
roots, and, in some countries, where it seldom if ever rains; 
I ask, whether such rocks do contain all the necessary ingre- 
dients or matter that constitute the food of trees; and that the 
roots actually imbibe, extract, or introsuscept (as Sir Henry 
Steuart would say), all the sap or blood necessary for the 


with Hints for their Removal. 55 


growth of the tree, out of the very stones or sand (which Sir 
Humphry Davy has proved to be perfectly barren), for the 
support of not only the stem, but that offspring of “ complete 
bloodsuckers,”’ as Mr. Howden terms the branches and leaves. 

If any able chemist can satisfactorily prove by analysis 
that the very rocks, sand, or sandstone, where such trees are 
found to grow, some in great luxuriance, contain all the 
carbon and other ingredients that constitute the food of trees, 
and form the sap, wood, and leaves, we might then be con- 
vinced that leaves were of no use to imbibe any part of the 
necessary food from the gases in the atmosphere: but how 
they will reconcile the difference between such barren rocks 
and sands, and the best of soils, I must confess I am at a 
loss even to conjecture. 

Now, to the use of the branches and leaves in the increase 
and growth of the wood or timber. In Lecture 3. (Vol. VIII. 
p. 512.), on the formation of timber, Mr. Lindley says: — 
‘* The timber is increased by concentric layers, formed one 
every year between the inner bark and alburnum, or surface 
of the young wood, the manner in which this layer is depo- 
sited is the point where botanists do not agree.” Of the 
various opinions that have been broached on this subject, Mr. 
Lindley said, he should only state two, which he considered 
the principal. 

«Kirst, That the increase in diameter of timber trees is 
effected by the annual transformation of the inner bark into 
alburnum, hardening into wood, and a new inner bark being 
formed by the exuding juices of the tree.” Perhaps Mr. 
Howden’s opinion, probably the candlemaking way. Se- 
condly, “ That fibres are constantly sent down by the leaves, 
which, embedding themselves in the cellular tissue formed by 
the descending sap, make a new layer between the inner bark 
and the alburnum. Various experiments have ,been tried by 
the supporters of the first«of these opinions; one of which 
seemed almost conclusive, .A portion of the outer bark 
having been removed, andja thin plate of silver having been 
bound on the outside of the inner bark, this plate of silver 
was buried in the tree.” wild 

On the other hand, the advocates for the second hypo- 
thesis, viz., that the layer of: new wood is formed by deposi- 
tions from the leaves, assert that, if a tree be ringed to such 
a depth as to cut off the communication between the albur- 
num and the leaves, the stem below that ring will not increase 
in size; but that the part above the division will exhibit an 
extraordinary swell, as though the nourishment intended for 


the whole trunk were concentrated to that point. In further 
E 4 


56 Causes of Ignorance in Arboriculture, 


support of the second hypothesis, it had been observed that 
trees planted on the edge of a wood, in such a situation as 
only to have one side exposed to the full benefit of the sun 
and air, and which, of course, have partially developed their 
leaves and branches, are found invariably to have their con- 
centric layers of wood broader on the vigorous than on the 
stunted side. Mr. Lindley further stated that many ob-- 
jections had been raised to the second of them, because its 
first supporters- had asserted that each individual leaf, ‘or 
rather bud, sent down fibres through the whole body of the 
tree, directly to the ground. This, he observed, seemed to 
be carrying the doctrine rather too far. Now, from what I 
have observed and stated before, the second hypothesis 
appears, at least to me, to be the true one. But let us see 
what further Mr. Lindley has said on this subject, before I 
state what more I have to say. 

In your Number of this Magazine for October, 1831 
(Vol. VII. p. 584.), in Mr. Lindley’s introduction to his book 
entitled 4 Guide to the Orchard and Kitchen-Garden, 1 find 
the following statements on this subject : —“ A plant is really 
an animated body, composed of an infinite multitude of sys- 
tems of life; all, indeed, united in a whole, but each having 
an independent existence. ‘These systems of life are buds, 
each having a power of emitting descending fibres in the 
form of roots; and also of ascending, in the form of stem. 
The first of these buds is the embryo (in the seed); the 
others are subsequently formed on the stem emitted by the 
embryo (in the progress of germination). As these secondary 
buds develope, their descending roots combine, and form the 
wood. ‘Their ascending stems give rise again to new buds. 

“* Budding and Grafting. Budding differs from grafting 
in this, that aportion of a stem is not made to strike root on 
another stem; but, on the contrary, a bud, deprived of all 
trace of the woody part of a stem, is introduced beneath the 
bark of the stock, and there induced to strike root.” Here, 
then, we have Mr. Lindley’s opinions of the use of branches, 
leaves, and leaf-buds, in combining and forming the wood. 

Let us now see Mr. Main’s opinion respecting branches 
and leaves assisting in the growth of timber. In his Essay on 
Vegetable Physiology, now under preparation for the press; 
extracts from which appeared in this Magazine for June last 
(Vol. VIII. p. 304. and 306.), on pruning forest trees. °* If,” 
says he, “ we except the failure of the lowest branches of 
trees, there are few indications in nature showing the necessity 
of pruning. In natural forests, trees grow generally close 
together: of course, their branches, being deprived of air and 


with Hints for their Removal. 57 


light, quickly perish ; but when, by accident, they stand singly, 
the lower branches are as permanent as those of the top, nay, 
even more so; and, moreover, they appear to be as necessary a 
part of the system.... A great deal has been written,” he 
observes, ‘‘ relative to the propriety of reducing the head of 
a tree, as a means of increasing the bulk of the trunk. The 
question lies in a nutshell. The larger the head, the larger must 
be the trunk: also the diameter of the latter is increased by 
the number of branches which are, or have been, produced by 
the former. In proportion as the roots are increased and 
extended, in like manner are the stem and head. Severe 
mutilations of the head paralyse the energies of the roots ; 
and, wice versa, reducing the number of branches, to give mag- 
nitude to the stem, is ridiculous. Every individual twig of the 
head is a part of the stem; and the former could not be de- 
veloped without the assistance of the latter, which, while it 
conveys support, is itself enlarged by this very function. In 
fact, every part of a tree depends on, and, in its turn, lends 
assistance to, every other.” Here, then, we have Mr. Main’s 
opinion. He says further, “that probably Dr. Darwin got his 
ideas of the stems of trees being increased by descending 
fibres from the leaf-buds, from the spectacle of a hollow willow 
tree being partly filled with roots, which, from time to time, 
had descended from the head;” but, he adds, * that was no 
corroboration of the doctor’s conclusion.” 

After such evidence as this, I may presume to state my own 
observations. Let any one strip a leaf; when in a growing 
state; and he will find, as Mr. Lindley observes (in Lecture 4. 
p- 615., when speaking of leaves), “ that their intimate con- 
nection with the bark might easily be discovered, by tearing 
the petiole of a growing leaf from its point of union with the 
branch ; when it would be found that a portion of the bark, 
and even of the alburnum, would be stripped off with it.” 
But I advise to go farther, and to strip it off when it has done 
growing; and it will be found to break off quite smooth at the 
point of union with the branch, without tearing any of the 
bark or alburnum with it, and leave every part that connected 
it to the shoot behind, for the increase of the bark or wood; 
which, I think, clearly proves that the descending fibres of 
the leaf and leaf-buds are incorporated with the bark and 
alburnum. But those who still doubt should examine farther, 
and begin with the last formed leaf and bud at the end of the 
shoot ; and they will find that the bud springs directly from 
the pith, then with a knife separate the leaf and bud together, 
when they will find how the new shoot is formed, and in- 
creased from the descending fibres of each successive leaf 


58 Causes of Ignorance in Arboriculture. 


and leaf-bud; then, descending still lower, strip off the last 
year’s lateral (side) shoot from the preceding year’s wood 
(which operation may be done with the fingers and thumb), 
and they will then see it farther illustrated; and, pursuing 
the examination still farther, strip off a two years’ lateral 
shoot from the main one, when it ‘will be seen (more con- 
vincingly, if possible) how the descending fibres from above 
have increased and enclosed it to the main stem; also, how 
the descending fibres turn over, and to each side of, the pro- 
tuberance at the base of the lateral shoot, at its emission from 
the pith or centre, and descend downwards. ‘These exa- 
minations, I think, must convince the most incredulous, of 
leaves and branches being the means of supplying the mate- 
rial, and the cause of the increase of the diameter, of the stem: 
hence the absolute necessity of numerous branches, twigs, 
and leaves, in a healthy state, to produce much good timber 
in the shortest time; whatever Mr. Howden and others may 
assert to the contrary. 

Thus we see how the bulk is increased regularly from the 
extreme point of each year’s young shoot, from leaf to leaf on 
the young shoot, from lateral shoot to lateral shoot, and from 
branch to branch progressively down, to the collar or junc- 
tion of the stem with the root. ‘This is beautifully exempli- 
fied in some of the conical trees, such as the larch and poplar ; 
and I am inclined to think that the roots of trees are in- 
creased in a similar manner; that the office of the trunk and 
branches is, only with differently formed organs, to imbibe 
necessary nourishment. Mr. Lindley, however, seems to be of 
a different opinion ; as he says, Lecture 3. (Vol. VIII. p. 510.), 
‘¢ Those portions of the roots nearest the trunk are, in fact, 
only elongated portions of the stem, stretching into the ground 
for the purpose of giving stability to the tree.” On this point 
I must beg to differ from such high authority ; for, let any one 
take the same method to examine the roots that has been 
recommended for the stem and branches. It will be found, I 
believe, to increase by ascending fibres towards the collar, 
common centre, or the point where the ascending stem and 
descending root spring from in the seed. I have stated this 
merely for more skilful persons to investigate, as it is rather 
foreign to the present subject. It would hence appear to be 
clearly demonstrated that leaves and branches are indispens- 
able for the increase of timber, at least according to such 
recent authorities as Mr. Lindley and Mr. Main, whom you 
so highly applaud. Still, from what Mr. Howden and some 
others have published on the subject, some may and do think 
that the leaves and branches are of little or no importance, as 


On forming Live Fences with Larch. 59 


the means of increasing the trunk of trees; witness the numer- 
ous instances which we see of the whole of the branches being 
cut off to nearly the top of the tree, or else the trees suffered 
to grow so close that they can make but few side branches. 
I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Rue Wood, near Shrewsbury, W. BiLuneton. 
Oct. 20. 1832. 


WE have left out the remainder of this long communication 
(at least, for the present), as not being essential to the object 
which the author appears to have in view. — Cond. 


Art. XIV. On forming Live Fences with Larch Trees. 
By Mr. Gorrig, F.H.S. &c. 
Sir, 

In the spring of 1831 I had occasion to enclose a four-acre 
park, of high, dry, and rather poor land. Economy and 
immediate protection being objects of consideration, I had 
a 4-ft. ditch cast, at the rate of 6d. per fall of six ells (we 
still generally keep by the 37-inch ell in Scotland); and 
having some plantations of larches, of nine years’ standing, 
on an adjacent eminence, which required thinning, it occurred® 
to me that it might be possible to construct of them a live 
fence, that would have immediate effect; and, with this view, 
I employed two men to take them up carefully, as marked out 
for thinning, about the beginning of March. I employed two 
other men in planting them among the earth thrown out of 
the ditch; myself holding the tree, and giving it the intended 
position. It occurred to me that wind-waving was one prin- 
cipal preventive of the growth of larches transplanted at that 
age, which would be aeaided by laying the trees ina slanting 
direction ; besides, fewer trees would form an efficient fence, 
than if standing perpendicular. ‘The trees were from 10 to 
12 ft. long, and were laid at about an angle of 30° with the 
horizon, the tops inclining a little over the ditch to the inte- 
rior of the park, whence the danger, from cattle attempting 
to break through, was to be apprehended; the surface of 
the ditch bank “being about from 20 in. to 2ft. above the 
ordinary level of the “ground, and the upper part of the root. 
about 3 in. below that sinrae when the earth was dressed off. 
The plants were well feathered to the bottom, with side- 
branches, which were all allowed to remain on the trees; and 
at the surface the roots were from 30 to 36 in. distant, but 


60 On laying out Flower-Gardens. 


the stems or centres of the tree, from the sloping direction 
given them, were only from 15 to 18in. distant, ** centre 
from centre,” which, with the branches, presented an obstruc- 
tion more apparently formidable than really so; and which 
had the effect of preventing any of the enclosed horses or 
cattle from making an attempt at taking a leap. ‘The expense 
of planting did not exceed another 6d. per fall; and thus an 
effective live fence was put up, at less than would have erected 
a three-railed paling, the decay of which would commence the 
day on which it was erected, while the living larches, that 
otherwise would have been almost useless, acquire yearly 
strength, which will soon present an insurmountable barrier 
to the passage of live stock, besides affording immediate 
shelter, which will be annually increasing. ‘This year I find 
(as was to be expected) the leading shoot begins to assume a 
perpendicular direction; and every fourth or fifth tree I intend 
to allow to grow to full maturity, when the proprietor of 
future times may find it convenient to have them cut up for 
naval timber. 

I did not expect that every plant transplanted at that age 
should grow; and the dry weather which followed, in the 
summer of 1831, was by no means favourable to their suc- 
cess: about 80 plants died of 760. These I this spring inter- 
lined with young plants of about 3 ft. in length, transplanted 
larches from the nursery, inserted under the backgone plant, 
the dead branches of which give the young plant, with a little 
assistance, the proper direction. In order to make assurance 
doubly sure, I planted a row of young transplanted larches 
from the nursery at about a foot apart, and a foot separate 
from the old plants, to which they had a contrary direction 
given them. Here I would have taken blame to myself, if I 
had to record the death of a single plant. The whole are now 
in a thriving condition; and I can, with some degree of con- 
fidence, recommend the process to those who may have upland. 
fences to form, and thinnings of larches of nine or ten years’ 
standing to spare. I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

Annat Gardens, Oct. 1. 1832: Arcu. GorRIE. 


Art. XV. On laying out Flower-Gardens. By Masaront. 
Sir, 
I wave read-the remarks on laying out flower-gardens by 
Mr. Robert Errington, in this Magazine (Vol. VIII. p. 562.), 
and hope they may meet the eyes of some of that numerous 


On laying out Flower-Gardens. 61 


band of amateur gardeners, who make Flora blush at their 
awkward arrangement and disposal of her gifts. How often 
do we see parks laid out in good taste, so far as water, trees, 
and drives are concerned, with a flower-garden, composed 
either of “* gaudy masses” and “ lumpish forms,” or of stars, 
and hieroglyphics of all sorts, for which no name can be 
found. It may be said by some, that the flowers have nothing 
to do with the landscape scenery of a park, and are to con- 
tribute to its embellishment by their individual beauty only. 
I differ from this opinion zz toto; but, without formally 
attempting to controvert it, shall beg leave to submit a few 
ideas of my own on the subject. It appears to me, that the 
most general fault, in laying out flower-gardens, is the total 
absence of connection or unison between the several beds or 
borders. It is admitted by most persons, that, in park scenery, 
all details should be subservient to the effect of the whole; 
and I consider that the same rule is applicable to the arrange- 
ment of a flower-garden. Where the shape of any individual 
bed can be changed at pleasure, without injuring or altering 
the general effect; where stars can be transformed into 
garters, full moons into crescents, oblong meat-dishes into 
round cheese-plates, and vice versé; I cannot consider the 
flower-garden as approaching to perfection, notwithstanding 
any sum which extravagance may have been pleased to throw 
away upon it. I concur in several of Mr. Errington’s re- 
marks, but cannot say that I at all like his plan or design, of 
which your Magazine contains a woodcut (fig. 106. p. 564. 
Vol. VIII.). I do not see any bed or beds in it that might 
not be replaced by others of a different form; I cannot dis- 
cover any other principle than that of placing large groups 
outside, and little groups in the middle. I venture to subjoin 
a sketch (iz. 16.) illustrative of my own opinions on the 
subject. 

Allow me here to enter my protest against the little iron 
basketwork with which many flower-beds are surrounded, to 
the very great detriment of the toes of gouty or contemplative 
amateurs. Where the little monstrosities are visible, they give 
a rigid and harsh outline, which has any appearance but that 
of nature; and, when they are covered or overhung with 
flowers, such as heliotropes, geraniums, or the bright scarlet 
beauty of Verbéna chameedrifolia, in which case, being out of 
sight, they look best, as the Irishman said ; why, even then, Sir, 
suppose a lady or gentleman wishes to reach a rose or honey- 
suckle growing in the centre of a group ; cautiously stepping 
here and there among the front ranks, his or her foot catches 
in the basketwork, and a fall is the consequence, by which 


62 Culture and List of Herbaceous Plants 


the flowers are broken and destroyed, not to mention the 
danger which “ eyes, nose, mouth, and chin” may encounter 
from the fixed-bayonet defence of sharp-pointed iron flower- 
stakes, number sticks, and various other sticks with which the 
border may be furnished. I am, Sir, yours, &Xc. 
London, Dec. 6. 1832. : Masaronl. 


Art. XVI. The Culture and a List of Herbaceous Plants which 
will thrive in the Air and Smoke of Cities. By Mr. WiLL1AM 


Boyce. 
Sir, 

No person having given the information desired by “ A 
would-be suburban Gardener” (Vol. VII. p. 721.), I now 
attempt to do so; and although I regret that the subject has 
not fallen into more able hands, still, I shall hope the motive, 


which will thrive in Cities. 63 


and not the value, of the offering, may propitiate its acceptance. 
The two principal causes of the want of success attending the 
cultivation of plants in town gardens are, the want of a proper 
soil and a congenial air: the former is generally composed of 
too much lime and brick rubbish, which is any thing but 
good for showy herbaceous plants. I would first ascertain if 
such were the nature of the soil. Should it prove to be of 
these materials, take it out of the clumps and borders to the 
depth of a foot, and fill them up with fresh loam, mixed with 
a little rotten cow manure: in this soil will grow all the plants 
named in the accompanying list. 

I shall endeavour now to assist the suburban gardener in 
rendering the air which surrounds his plant department 
more healthful to them. Dr. Hunter observes, that air con- 
tains the life of vegetables, as well as animals: ‘it is a com- 
pressible elastic fluid.” The smoke of populous towns and 
cities, where coal is the fuel, greatly lessens its elasticity and its 
fluidity, and consequently renders it uncongenial to plants. The 
practice observed by town gardeners in general is, to give an 
abundance of water to the roots of plants: this should be 
discontinued, or, at least, given much more sparingly and 
less frequently: it is by over-watering, in such gardens, that 
plants are, as it were, surcharged with crude juices, which the 
leaves, while they are covered with dust, cannot pass off. I 
would, therefore, instead of watering so much to their roots, 
give frequent syringing over leaves and stems, and keep them 
as free from dirt as possible. They will then be able to per- 
form their proper functions, perspire during the day, and 
during the night fill themselves with fresh juices. Cleanliness 
is as necessary to plants as to animals. ‘The syringing should 
be performed at the approach of evening in the summer 
months, and just before sunrise in early spring and autumn. 
Keep the mould in the clumps and border loose, by fre- 
quent stirring with a Dutch hoe; water with a fine rose any 
vacant compartment. By this, and the syringing, the air will 
be rendered more humid. The China rose may be induced 
to grow more than 2 ft. high, by giving it, in addition to the 
soil I have mentioned, a good supply of rich manure, and 
keeping its leaves clean. ‘The fuchsias, particularly Fachsa 
gracilis, should be kept to one principal stem; the side shoots 
to be shortened to an inch of the stem: they then flower more 
freely. A suburban gardener will do well to examine whe- 
ther his georginas [dahlias] are not infested with earwigs: if 
they are, hang a few lobster’s claws on the sticks they are tied 
to; in these they may be caught: if he has a bloom he par- 
ticularly values, tie loosely tow, dipped in sweet oil, just 
below the flower-bud. 


64 Culture and List of Herbaceous Plants 


In the list below, I have confined myself to hardy herba- 
ceous plants, such as are showy, and will, with the treatment 
I have described, not only grow, but thrive, even in town 
gardens. I had intended to have made a few observations, 
respecting the care of plants kept on balconies, and in apart- 
ments, in London, but shall reserve these for a future commu- 
nication. Should the above remarks be considered worthy 
a place in your Magazine, which has done much service to 
gardens, gardeners, and their employers, and be of use to 
« A would-be suburban Gardener ;” the little trouble I have 


had will be amply rewarded. 
The Lady Gifford’s, 


Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 


Wm. Boyce. 


Roehampton, Surrey, Sept. 23. 1832. 


Achilléa rosea. 
Aconitum echroleticum. 
variegatum. 
versicolor. 
Acte‘a spicata. 
Adonis vernalis. 
Allium Moly. 
Anchusa italica. 
Antirrhinum majus bicolor. 
Aquilégia sibirica. 
glandulosa. 
atropurpurea. 
hybrida. 
Asclépias pulchra. 
purpurascens. 
Asphodelus ramosus, 
A’ster alpinus. 
Amellus. 
Nove A’nglize ruber. 
sibiricus. 
mutabilis. 
spectabilis. 
serotinus. 
puichérrimus. 
Baptisia exaltata. 
australis. 
tinctoria. 
Betonica grandiflora. 
Campanula carpathica. 


persiceefolia ceertilea 4lba. 


latifolia czertlea alba. 
Trachélium bicolor. 
speciosa. 
azurea. 
alliarizefolia. 
sarmatica. 
Catananche czerulea. 
alba. 
Chelone glabra. 
obliqua. 


Chelone Lyon. 

Coreépsis verticillata. 
senifolia. 
lanceolata. 

Coronilla ibérica. 

montana. 

Corydalis nobilis. 

Delphinium grandiflorum. 

mesoleticuin. 
Barlowz. 
Dianthus latifclius. 
japonicus. 
supérbus. 

Dictamnus Fraxinélla. 

albus. 

Digitalis micrantha. 

lanata. 

Dodecatheon Méadia. 
albiflora. 
gigantéa. 
élegans. 

Dracocéphalum specidsum. 

variegatum. 
altaiénse. 

Eranthis hyemalis. 

Erigeron philadélphicus. 

glabellus. 

Erythronium Déns-canis. 

Déns-canis album. 
americanum. 


Fritillaria imperialis, in variety. 


Galanthus nivalis. 
Gaillardia aristita. 
Gentidna asclepiadea. 
cruciata. 
acaulis. 
Géum coccineum majus. 
Gladiolus byzantinus. 
communis. 
Glatcium falyum. 


which will thrive in Cities. 


Hed¥sarum obscirum, 
Helénium autumnale. 
Helianthus decapétalus. 
Helléborus niger. 

Hemerocallis graminea. 
disticha. 
falva. 

Hepatica triloba, all the varieties. 

Hippocrepis comosa. 

Hyacinthus orientalis, all the vars. 

J’nula glandulosa. 

Layatera thuringiaca. 

Leucojum vérnum. 
zestivum. 

Liatris spicata. 
scariosa. 
squarrosa. 
élegans. 

Zjlium candidum. 
Pomponium. 
chalcedénicum. 
tigrinum. 
MMartagon. 

ZTithospérmum davuricum. 
paniculatum. 

Lupinus nootkaténsis. 
polyphyllus. 

albus. 

Lythrum difftisum. 

Monarda Kalmiana. 
Russelliana. 
punctata. 

Muscari comdsum. 
monstrosum. 
botryoides. 

azureum. 
pallidum. 
album. 

C#nothera speciosa. 
macrocarpa. 
fruticésa. 

Fraseri. 
serotina. 
pumila. 

Ornithégalum umbellatum. 
pyramidale. 

O’robus /athyrdides. 
variegatus. 
véernus. 
varius. 
niger. 

Peonia officinalis rubra. 

carnéscens. 

Papaver orientale. 
bracteatum. 

Pentstémon réseus. 
campanulatus. 
atropurpureus. 

Vou. 1X.— No. 42. 


65 


Pentstemon pulchéllus, 
Phiomis pingens. 
Phl6x. All the species except pildsa, 
amoe‘na, subulata, canadénsis, ni- 
valis, and setacea, 
Phytetima orbiculare. 
campanulatum. 
Polemonium gracile, 
pulchéllum. 
Potentilla pedata. 
formosa. 
Russellidna. 
Hopwoodiadna. 
Prunélla grandiflora. 
Pyrethrum roseum. 
Raninculus aconitifolius. 
Rudbéckza hirta. 
falgida. 
serotina. 
purpurea. 
Salvia Tenorez. 
Saponaria ocymOides. 
Scilla nutans. 
sibirica. 
bifolia ceerulea. 
Alba. 
carnea. 
amoe‘na. 
hyacinthordes. 
Senecio Doronicum. 
Sisyrinchium convolutum. 
calif6rnicum. 
striatum. 
Spire‘a Filipéndula. 
Statice latifolia. 
Sternbérgza lutea. 
Taxantheéema Jellidifolia. 
flexuosa. 
Teucrium hyrcanicum. 
Thalictrum aquilegizfolium. 
anemonoides. 
Tradescantia virginica. 
nivea. 
congésta, 
rosea. 
Trollus europee‘us. 
asiaticus. 
patulus. 
americanus. 
Verbascum formosum. 
pyramidatum. 
cupreum. 
pheeniceum. 
Veronica neglécta. 
incisa. 
corymbosa. 
incarnata. 


multifida. 


66 On raising Seedling Ranunculuses. 


Art. XVII. On raising Seedling Ranunculuses. 
By the Rev. Josepu Tyso. 
Sir, 

SEVERAL of your correspondents have noticed my com- 
munications on raising seedling ranunculuses (Vol. VI. p. 548., 
Vol. VII. p.565.); and others, by private letter, have in- 
formed me that they have adopted my plans with success. 
As I am anxious to promote the growth of seedling flowers 
in general, and of ranunculuses in particular, I shall readily 
communicate to you any additional knowledge I may acquire - 
from observation and experience. During the last season, I 
sowed about forty boxes of seed. My first sowing was on 
the 8th of August, 1831; my second on the 15th: both these 
failed, which I attribute to the dryness of the atmosphere. 
My third sowing was performed on the 22d, which did well, 
and produced a quantity of fine large roots. The fourth 
sowing, on Sept. 24., did well; the fifth, on Sept. 30., did 
equally well; the sixth, on Oct. 10., did well. At the seventh 
sowing, on Oct. 13., I sowed three boxes: all came up well, 
but two failed soon after the seeds came up. On close inspec- 
tion, I found that all my boxes were infested with a great 
number of very small brown insects, scarcely visible to the 
naked eye, except when in motion. They resemble lobsters 
in shape, and had the power of hopping about by the sudden 
pressure of their tails against the ground. I should guess 
there might be sixty or eighty in every square foot. I applied 
tobacco smoke, and found they were easily destroyed; but, 
in a month or six weeks, I found them increasing upon the 
boxes again. I applied the same remedy, with the same suc- 
cess, until they disappeared. They may be discovered by 
breathing or blowing on the surface of the box. I examined 
several of them in a microscope, and I found the power of 
motion lay in their forked tails. I have not been able to 
ascertain their name; but, to my great regret, I found that 
they had made great havoc among the young plants; and, 
I believe, they were the cause of an entire failure in many of 
my boxes. The eighth sowing, Oct.21., did well: I took 
up 228 roots in one box, which was 16 in. by 14 in., and 4 in. 
deep. The ninth sowing, Oct. 27., did middling; the tenth, 
Nov. 7., good ; the eleventh, Nov. 10., very good ; the twelfth, 
Jan. 7. 1832, a complete failure; the thirteenth, Jan. 17., a 
complete failure, the weather being too cold to produce ger- 
mination; the fourteenth sowing, Jan. 24., did well; the fif- 
teenth sowing, Feb. 20., did badly. 

I do not attribute the success or non-success entirely to 


Culture of the Orange. 67 


the time of sowing; but, from many years’ observation, I am 
prepared to say that the middle of October and the latter 
end of January are the best times for sowing; and, at the 
latter time, they will succeed without any protection by glass: 
but they should be defended from heavy rains when very 
young, and from scorching suns at all times, until they 
begin to fade, which will be in June. ‘They should be 
taken up in July, and planted the ensuing February, in 
the same manner as old roots. I have about 100 fine new 
varieties, which I have raised from seed; several of which I 
have sold for 5J. per root, and others at different prices, 
according to their worth. I have raised about 2000 this year 
from seeds saved from the best old flowers, impregnated with 
semidoubles possessing good properties. I have long ceased 
to sow seed from semidoubles, because they rarely produce 
one good flower in five hundred. Let all who attempt to 
raise seedling ranunculuses utterly destroy the insects de- 
scribed above, and slugs which harbour about the boxes. 
The king has graciously condescended to become the 
patron of our Horticultural Society; which has given an 
increased stimulus to its members, who are manifesting a 
becoming zeal to excel in the exhibition of the finest spe- 
cimens of flowers and fruits which skill and industry can 
produce. I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Wallingford, Nov. 1832. JosEPH Tso. 


Mr. Tyso has published a sheet catalogue of ranunculuses, 
tulips, pelargoniums, &c., for 1832, which may be had, gratis, 
on application to him, post-paid. — Cond. 


Art. XVIII. On the Culture of the Orange Tree in England. 
By R. S$. 
Sir, 

Havine often observed with astonishment the inconsistent 
manner in which the orange tree is cultivated in this country, 
and the bad success which generally attends such a mode 
of treatment, I take the present opportunity, through the 
medium of your Magazine, of describing the method of 
management by which I have found them to succeed best. 
After having procured a quantity of good seed from the com- 
mon citron, sow it about the middle of February, or beginning 
of March at the latest, in 24-sized seed pots filled with rich 
light mould ; covering it half an inch thick with the same sort 


of soil, and spread a little moss over the top, to keep the mould 
F2 


68 On the Culture of 


moist. Plunge your pots in a hot-bed, previously prepared 
for them, of about 70 to 75 degrees of heat, taking good care 
not to let the heat sink below that temperature. In a few 
days the plants will make their appearance through the moss, 
after which a little air must be given them when the weather 
permits. As soon as they attain the height of five or six 
inches, which, if properly managed, will be im five or six 
weeks after they are sown, pot them into 60 or small 48 
sized pots, taking good care to drain the pots well, which is a 
very necessary thing towards the growing of any plant well, 
and especially orange trees; after which plunge the pots in 
the hot-bed as before, taking good care that the bottom heat 
is not too violent for their roots, and keep a steady heat, so as 
not to let them get any way stunted in their growth, and by 
the month of July the greater part of them will be ready 
for being engrafted. Prepare a gentle hot-bed in a shady 
situation ; or, if that cannot conveniently be done, turn the back 
of the frame towards the south: then graft the plants, which 
may be performed in various ways with equal success: but 
the manner I would recommend, as in my opinion best, is that 
of cleft-erafting, as the scion heals over the wound much 
sooner than by any other way. I generally take off the top 
of the scion before inserting it in the stock, which, in my 
Opinion, acts as a stimulus to make the sap flow afresh, and 
make them unite much sooner than if left untopped. At 
this time much care is required to keep up a proper heat; and 
that the plants be well shaded with double mats, for the clear 
sun will often cause a complete failure. When you find that 
they have properly taken, admit a httle air ; but it must be but 
very sparingly at first. If convenient, I would recommend 
the plants to be kept in a frame during winter, as they are 
sure to keep much better there than any where else, if good 
care be taken not to overwater them, otherwise the roots will 
rot. If about the beginning of April a little dung heat be 
given, to set them growing, they will benefit much by it, pro- 
vided plenty of air be admitted, to prevent them growing 
weak. If one shoot be likely to take too much the lead of 
the others, pinch off the top, which will cause the sap to go to 
the others, and by that means form a fine head to the plant. 
By such treatment, I am of opinion that orange trees 
might be grown to much more advantage than by the present 
manner of raising stocks, which are generally two years old 
before they are fit for use. I have seen orange trees cul- 
tivated in this manner with great success. The orange tree 
does not require to be shut up in a house, like stove plants, as 
most people treat it in this country; but ought to get plenty 


the Orange in England. 69 


of air at all seasons, and in summer should be put out early 
in the season, and not treated as they are at Hampton Court, 
and several other of His Majesty’s gardens, where they have 
-some of the finest in the country, or at least which were the 
finest when they arrived there; but at present they assume 
another appearance. ‘The treatment these trees receive must 
convince every reasonable person that it is impossible they 
can be otherwise, when it is known that they are kept in a 
house all summer, with only a few windows in front of it, and 
then, in August, after they have made young wood, like 
windlestraws, by being kept in such a place, they are turned 
out of doors for two or three weeks, for the winds to 
blow off their leaves, and blast the young shoots. On the 
contrary, they should be turned out early, as in France, which 
is, in most seasons, from the Ist of May till October. 

Perhaps it may be argued that our climate is not so good. 
That I will allow; but if our early part of summer is not so 
hot, our month of August is sometimes more so. I would 
never wish for a better place than that at Hampton Court for 
wintering orange trees, when in many parts of France they 
are kept in cellars and caves, and in very few places have they 
a better place than an old coach-house or barn. I know an 
English candle manufacturer at Rouen, who has 80 of the 
finest orange trees I ever saw, and has no place to keep them 
in except an old barn, in which they are obliged to set the large 
plants on pillars five or six feet from the ground, in order that 
the smaller ones may be placed under their branches, where 
they stand without injury until the following spring, without 
scarcely losing a leaf. M. Vallet, who is well known about 
London as an importer of standard roses, has upwards of 300 
orange trees from four to sixteen feet high, and has no better 
place than the sheds under a cotton manufactory in which to 
winter his trees; and many other instances I could mention, 
if necessary. 

There is another thing that I have often observed in France, 
namely, that orange trees in small wooden boxes, made ae- 
cording to the size of the plant, always thrive better than in 
pots. The reason, I presume, is merely this, that the boxes 
generally stand on four small feet, about two inches from the 
ground, and of course always keep the plants free from stag- 
nant water, which orange trees cannot endure without injury. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Upper Clapton, Nov. 29. 1830. R.S, 


F3 


70 Cultivation of Grapes and late Peaches. 


Art. XIX. On cultivating the Pine-apple out of Pots. By Mr. 
Wittiam Bowers, Gardener to Mrs. Shaw Lefevre, Heskfield 


Place, Hartford Bridge, Hampshire. 


Sir 

I BEG to say that I have treated my fruiting pines, these 
last three years, in nearly the manner described by Mr. 
Mitchinson, Vol. VIII. p. 576.; only that, instead of turning 
the plants out into mould, I turn them out, and bury the 
plants six inches deep in half-decayed leaves: the plant roots 
well into the leaves, and the suckers also make sufficient roots 
before taken off. I find by this treatment that I get my fruit 
and suckers both much finer than when I fruited them in 
pots; and there is much less expense and trouble during the 
fruiting season, as I never give any heat into the pit after the 
plants are turned out. The plants never require any water, 
except syringing over them in a high temperature. ‘The gar- 
deners who have seen this treatment approve it very much; 
and I make no doubt of its becoming generally practised, 
particularly when pines are grown on a small scale. My 
succession plants I treat in exactly the manner described by 
Mr. Mitchinson. I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

Hartford Bridge, Oct. 1832. Wm. Bowers. 


Art. XX. A Mode of cultwating Grapes and late Peaches. By 
Mr. J. Hayruorn, late Gardener to Lord Middleton, Middle- 
ton Hall, near Nottingham. 


Sir, 

A successron of grapes all the year round is, I think, best 
obtained by having a circular house of from 20 to 26 yards 
in circumference. For a small family, 26 vines would be 
sufficient. Two fresh vines should be introduced into the 
house every month: these should be taken down as soon as 
the fruit is cut; which would thus give room for others to 
~ spread as soon as they showed fruit. I suppose each vine to 
produce from 30 to 40 branches, without over-bearing. 

For a late crop of peaches, the back part of the house 
should be supported by pillars placed under each rafter, the 
interstices to be filled up with wood panels. The trees must 
be of late-bearing sorts, and trained on a trellis at the back 
of the house. When the crop is gathered, and the wood is 
ripe, remove the panels from the north side of the trees to 
the south, exposing the trees to the north: the panels must 


Pit for, and Culture of, early Cucumbers. 71 


be fixed close under each rafter. The pillars and coping 
would guard the trees against perpendicular rain and side 
storms. When the crop is nearly over, vines may be intro- 
duced in front for early grapes; after gathering the crop and 
ripening the wood, the house may be thrown open, and the 
panels removed to the north side of the peach trees, which 
would not require glass till late in the season. 

The houses might be of any length, but both should com- 
mand a good heat. A circular stage might be erected in the 
vinery, for pots of vines, figs, or flowers. 

I remain, Sir, yours, &c. 
Wollaton, Sept. 16. 1829. J. HayrHorn. 


Art. XXI. A Description of a Pit suited to the Culture of early 
Cucumbers, and of a Mode of cultivating them. By Mr. Ep. 
WARD ELLIorT. 


Sir, 

I src leave to present to your notice a plan for growing 
early cucumbers, which I have found to answer very well. 
The plan is as follows: — Let a three-light pit be made of 
the usual size, and having the appearance of M‘Phail’s plan, 
except in the open work being stopped up; the flues to be 
continued round the sides of the pit, and one flue to go under 
the bottom lengthwise in the middle, but no cross flues, as in 
M‘Phail’s plan; the sides of the flue in the bottom of the pit 
to be filled up with broken bricks or stones, to make it level ; 
the top of the pit, and the lights, to be as in general. Next, 
opposite the two rails, about five feet from the front of the 
pit, let two wooden trunks be sunk in the ground till they 
come to a level at the top; the height of the trunks to be 
about eighteen inches, the space in the middle to be about five 
inches square. ‘Then let two lead pipes be laid from the pit 
to each of the trunks, one end of each pipe to enter the 
trunk about half way to the bottom, the other end to be 
applied to the pit: each pipe to emerge from the ground 
about eighteen inches before it reaches the pit; then with an 
easy turn let each pipe be carried up the side of the pit; one 
pipe from each trunk to enter the upper part of the flues; the 
other two to enter above the flues, one under each rail that 
supports the lights. Next, let there be two pieces of small 
pipe, about two feet long; let one of these pieces be applied 
to each end of the pit near to the back leading from the upper 
part of the back flue to the top of the pit, the back flue being 

F 4 


72 Pit for, and Culture of; early Cucumbers. 


one brick higher than the others. The two front pipes that 
enter the flues are to keep them constantly supplied with 
warm atmospheric air, and the small tubes at the ends are to 
take away the nocturnal vapour which has no other means of 
escape. This vapour, on being confined in the flues, and 
having no means to escape, must of necessity force itself 
through the earth in the pit, and consequently become very 
injurious to the roots of the plants. The other two pipes that 
enter under the rail are to convey warm atmospheric air among 
the plants, which is constantly passing into the pit, and escapes 
at the back of the lights; they being a little raised at the 
back, and a small piece of board being pegged up against it, 
to keep the cold winds from blowing under. Thus there is 
a constant supply of fresh warm air day and night. ‘The size 
of the large pipes is an inch and three quarters; the small 
tubes are three quarters of an inch. When I sow my seeds, I 
use a small rack suspended from the rails that support the 
lights with some pieces of board on it: the .seed pot, being 
placed on it, remains till the seed has come up; the plants 
are then potted off; and placed on the suspended rack till it 
is time for them to be turned out of the pots; they are then 
transplanted into small hills of earth on the suspended racks, 
with some bricks laid flatwise, to keep the earth together ; 
and as the plants increase in size, they are supplied with fresh 
earth. I find that cucumber plants managed this way do much 
better than in the usual way of ridging them out on the earth 
in the pit; for they grow stronger and more healthy, and 
they will show fruit much better and finer. Just before the 
fruit is in bloom, the plants are removed from the suspended 
rack, which is done by placing a hand glass over the plants 
on the rack; then having the lining levelled by the side of 
the pit, lift the suspended racks out of the pit, and place 
them on the lining, clean out the top earth that is in the 
pit, scald the sides with hot water, and put in a sufh- 
cient quantity of warm fresh earth; next take off your hand 
glass, and, having two sticks, place one under each end of the 
boards that have the plants, and gently take them off the rack, 
and place them on the fresh earth in the pit where they are 
to remain; then, by placing a small piece of board against 
the earth that contains the plants (the bricks having been 
removed), gently draw away the two outside boards; the 
middle one is drawn out endwise, it being divided in the 
middle, and in that part rests on brackets attached to the two 
outside boards. Here you will find that all the roots of the 
plants are alive and healthy, which is the reason why the 
plants retain their health and strength ; whereas, in the original 


Pruning and Training of the Morello Cherry. 73 


way of ridging out the plants when small, it is well known 
that they often lose their bottom roots, which causes the 
plants to become weak, and seldom or never do well after; but 
in this way of ridging out from the rack, you will find that 
the plants will grow very freely, and you will soon cut fruit. 
I have ridged out with fruit in bloom, and cut the second week 
after. Cucumbers grown this way will produce fruit much 
sooner, and continue to do well, and are not liable to be in- 
jured by the cheese bugs (or wood lice), as is too often the 
case. I recommend the air pipes to be stoppled when the 
linings are changed, till the heat has recovered again; then 
let them be open as before. The boards that are put on the 
suspended rack are three, of a breadth which forms a square ; 
the middle board being divided across the middle, which 
makes four pieces; the rack is suspended by four pieces of 
chain, which hook to any height that may be required. 
I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
The Rev. Ford Gildar?’s, Epwarp Ex.ior. 
West Wickham, Kent. 


Art. XXII. On the Pruning and Training of the Morello Cherry 
Tree. By Mr. WitLiaM SEyMour. 


Sir, 

Concetvine that the morello cherry (which is generally 
allowed to pine away under the uncongenial influence of a 
northern aspect) is almost unnoticed by any of the numerous 
friends of horticulture, and that it merits a small share of 
notice, I shall endeavour to offer a few hints on its culture, 
which may be found of some service to some of your young 
readers, like myself. ‘The mode that I adopt is, to form the 
tree on the same principles as those on which the peach tree 
is formed (fg. 17.) (to which the morello cherry has a great 
resemblance in its growth), and to be particularly attentive to 
the young main branches of last summer’s growth. While 
these are strong, and supplied with wood buds, we should 
retain such as are well placed and likely to produce shoots 
for future bearing, at about a foot distant, on the upper side, 
if they can be got (but that cannot always be accomplished, 
from the buds being single, and part of them blossom buds), 
and displace those not wanted, in order to strengthen the 
shoots retained. (fig 17. a a a.) 

At the winter dressing, the young bearing shoots of last 
summer’s growth must be neatly nailed to the wall, and not 


74 Pruning and Training of the Morello Cherry. 


shortened, as the buds towards the termination of these shoots 
are generally blossom buds. (jig. 17. 6 6 6.) 

In the spring following, it will be found that the bearing 
shoots of last summer’s growth will have a wood bud at the 
termination, and a few small wood buds (for studs or spurs) 
at the base of each of them, which must be carefully pre- 
served; but the terminal bud must be stopped as soon as it 
has grown an inch or two, by which means it will throw 
strength into the blossom and the small buds below, and 
cause some of them to grow, and make shoots for the next 
year’s bearing. (fig.17. cc.) These must be nailed to the 
wall, to prevent shade, and to ripen their wood. If two or 
more of those buds should spring, the lowest of them must 


18 


Culture of Onions. 15 


be retained, and the other displaced; and, soon after the 
fruit is gathered, the shoot that bore fruit must be cut back 
to the young one before mentioned, at the base. By these 
means you will keep the tree continually supplied with young 
bearing wood, and consequently free from the confusion of 
weak naked shoots that in general fill the morello, by per- 
mitting the terminal bud to proceed, and go one beyond 
another, as in the old method, producing a tree something 
like fig. 18., which is nothing but a mass of confusion, and 
unable to produce a crop of fine fruit, from the enormous 
load of useless wood that it has to support. 
I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

Wi111aM Seymour. 

Palace Gardens, Bishopthorpe, Oct. 23. 1831. 


Art. XXII. On the Culture of Onions. By Mr. Joun Mit- 
CHELL, Jun., Gardener, Slapton, near Dartmouth, Devon. 


Sir, 

Tue crop of onions, this year, has been universally pro- 
ductive in the neighbourhood of Slapton. Encouraged by 
your insertion of a letter from me, on a former occasion, 
(Vol. VIII. p. 469.), I trouble you with this, for the purpose of 
communicating to you the result of an experiment which I 
made this season in sowing a bed of onions in the garden of 
J. Deere, Esq., of this parish. 

The soil of the garden is a decomposed argillaceous slate, 
reduced to a fine mould, to the depth of one foot ; beneath 
the mould it is rubble, or the slate broken into small 
fragments mixed up with earth, for the depth of more than 
another feot ; it having been broken up with pickaxes for the 
purpose of deepening the soil, about three years since. 
Where I sowed my onion crop, the soil had been dressed 
like the rest of the garden, and not treated better. The bed 
was 14 ft. long and 8 ft. wide. On the 28th day of February 
I sowed my seed, which was of the Deptford sort. My 
employer, Mr. Deere, has all his crops sown in drills; a 
mode very rarely practised in this part of the country, where 
prejudice and ignorance prevail, to the exclusion of all im- 
provement. I made my drills at 18in. apart, and raised 
between them crops of radishes and Patagonian lettuce. 
During the spring and summer we were much occupied in 
the formation of a new kitchen-garden, and other work, to 
the neglect of my onion crop. The radishes were drawn as 
they became fit for use; but the lettuces were permitted to 


76 Cobbett?s Indian Corn. 


grow too late, and the onions were omitted to be timely 
thinned. The lettuces were at length drawn, the onions 
were thinned, and wood ashes (here called hearth ashes) 
were, at two different periods, spread over the bed, and the 
intervals between the drills dug, and frequently stirred after- 
wards. The consequence of this treatment was soon visible 
in the rapid growth of the plants, which before were small 
and stunted, from the neglect of thinning, &c. 

I do not follow the plan of prematurely stopping the 
growth of the onion by breaking the stalk, but permit it to 
grow as long as it will. When the stalk breaks down of 
itself, I draw up the onion. Such being my daily plan, my 
crop, of course, is in the progress of drawing for many days ; 
and, when drawn, I lay them out in rows to dry, and occa- 
sionally turn them over. 

I housed my crop on the 2d of this month (October), and 
it contained 204 onions, weighing 108 Ibs. Many were 15 in. 
in circumference, their weight being as many ounces. One 
weighed 1 lb. 20z.; and a rope or string, containing 38 
onions, weighed 28lbs. Where the Patagonian lettuces 
were permitted to grow, there the onions were all dwarfs. 
That circumstance, of course, tended most materially to lessen 
my average weight. Had proper care and attention been 
paid to the crop in an early stage, I am convinced that the 
weight of it would have been more than double. ‘The object 
of my experiment has, however, been obtained; namely, to 
prove that wide cropping, and the admission of air to the 
roots, by frequently stirring the soil between the drills, are the 
means to obtain large onions. 

Comments I will not add to my plain narrative. Should 
you, or your correspondents, favour me with comments, they 
will assist a young gardener in forming his opinions, and in 
increasing his knowledge. Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 

Slapton, near Dartmouth, JoHN MitTcHeELt, Jun. 

October 10. 1832. 


Art. XXIV. Remarks on Cobbett’s Indian Corn. By WiILLiAM 
RoTHWELL, Farmer and Nurseryman, Spout Bank, near Bury, 
Lancashire. 

Sir, 

Au. that Mr. Cobbett either says or does, with some per- 
sons, is right; with others, it is always wrong. I pay little 
attention to either class, but judge for myself. I have been 
a cultivator of his Indian corn for three years, but only to the 


Cobbeti’s Indian Corn. m7 


extent of a few rows each year: however, I consider this suf- 
ficient to form a pretty correct idea of its habits, produce, 
&c. I always say that all farming and gardening experiments 
ought to be tried three or four years before a decided opinion 
be given upon them; as the seasons vary so much, and there 
are such varieties of soil, that a correct one cannot be formed 
in one season, or upon one kind of soil. I always say that 
Mr. Cobbett was premature in writing his book on the cul- 
tivation of his corn. The first year (1828) he cultivated it at 
Barn Elms was a fine season; and I have not the least doubt 
but it would ripen then well and early: but, if he had waited 
two years longer, and had taken into consideration the soil 
and situation, he would not, I am sure, have said quite so 
much in its favour as he has done. After the trials I have 
made of it, I am of opinion it will never answer, as a general 
crop, upon a farm in the greater part of England and Scot- 
land. Except it can be made more hardy than it yet is, by 
naturalisation, it will never ripen in every situation and in 
every season in which wheat will. In some of the southern 
counties of England, and, indeed, in some of the best parts 
of Scotland, I have little doubt but it would answer; and 
might be made a profitable crop upon a farm, as I consider it 
a valuable grain for feeding cattle, horses, pigs, and poultry. 
Mr. Hunt says it is worthless for this purpose. I happen to 
have some rats and mice (and I shall believe them before him), 
which prefer it to either oats, beans, or peas: I have not tried 
them with wheat and barley; but, if he were to say that the 
former are worthless, we should know what to think of him. 
In situations where the Indian corn will answer, it will be 
found an excellent fallow crop, as no one will admit of such 
close tillage as it; neither do I consider it so exhausting as 
potatoes, Swedish turnips, beet root, or cabbage. It is very 
delicate when in the seed leaf; and, in my opinion, should 
never be sown or planted earlier than the middle of May, for 
if a few chilly nights come, when in this state, its growth will 
be much retarded, if not destroyed. Last year, the produce 
from seed taken out of the same ear, and sown in the middle 
of May, was ripe before that sown in the middle of April. 
The best manner of cultivating it is in rows, 30 in. or 3 ft. 
asunder, and the plants from 6 in. to 12in. asunder in the 
row. The seed ought to be sown as thick in the row as 
beans; and when the plants are about 3 in. high, they should 
be thinned out to the proper distance, which ought to be regu- 
lated by the richness or quality of the soil. By these means, 
there is sure to be a sufficient number of good plants to stand 


78 O’ralis crenata Jacquin, 


for a crop; except there be a total failure, and then the land 
will be ready for turnips. It is folly to talk of sowing no more 
seed than you intend to have plants upon the land. 

It is a common practice with a great number of farmers, 
whenever a new plant is introduced, or a new method of 
cultivating an old one, and a failure takes place, to condemn 
the plant or the system at once; forgetting that the most 
common crops fail in some seasons, and there is scarcely one 
passes over but there is some part of the crops upon every 
farm fails: therefore, we ought not to be premature in our 
condemnation of any experiment. ‘The soil in which I have 
grown the corn is a light sandy loam, and far from being 
fresh ; the situation is rather high, and exposed to the west 
and north-west. In 1829 the season was rather wet and 
cold here, particularly so when the plants were in bloom; 
and, in that season, only about one fourth of the crop came to 
maturity, and some of the ears in this portion were imperfect. 
In 1830 the season was, throughout, wet and cold; not one 
ear came to perfection. ‘That season, I finished reaping my 
other corn crops upon the farm on the 30th of September ; 
last year, I finished reaping on the 31st of August, and 
gathered my Indian corn quite ripe the 30th of September, 
with the exception of a few ears which were neither quite ripe 
nor perfect. ‘The fowls found these before they got ripe, and 
took every grain. I intend to continue my experiment, and 
always to sow from the seed of the preceding crop. ‘This 
year I intend to sow on various kinds of soil. I consider the 
straw quite as valuable as that from any other kind of grain ; 
and the produce of grain will, I think, be near double that of 
wheat from land of the same quality. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Wittiam RoTHWELL, 
Farmer and Nurseryman. 
Spout Bank, near Bury, Lancashire, 
Feb. 25. 1832. 


Art. XXV. On O’xalis crenata Jacquin, as a Culinary Vegetable 
in Britain. By James Mircue tt, Esq. 


Sir, 

I wave the honour to send you some tubers of the O’xalis 
erenata, dug up, on the 5th instant, in the garden of Great 
Roper’s Hall, near Brentwood, Essex. I was one of a party 
where some tubers of the same-plant were cooked, by boiling 


as a Culinary Vegetable. "9 


for ten minutes; and they were, on trial, declared, by all pre- 
sent, to be more agreeable in their flavour than the common 
potato. It is not possible to give an idea of a flavour in 
words ; but, if I were to attempt it, I should say, it was that 
of the potato slightly combined with the chestnut. I have 
been informed that the tuber of the O’xalis crenata was 
brought from South America by Mr. David Douglas, and 
was planted, in 1831, by Mr. Lambert. One of the tubers 
obtained from Mr. Lambert was planted by Mrs. Hirst in a 
pot in the green-house, in the end of April last, and, in the 
month of May the pot was removed to the flower-garden 
and broken, and the parts removed. It was first planted in 
the green-house as a security against frost; but it appears to 
have been unnecessary, as the plant has stood the frost re- 
markably well, and the leaves, on the 5th instant, before the 
tubers were dug up, were quite green. ‘The tuber planted 
was less than an ounce in weight, and the tubers produced 
were ninety in number, and weighed altogether upwards of 
4 lbs. They were ina space, the diameter of which was 9 in., 
and the depth Gin. The stems were between twenty and 
thirty in number, succulent, and of a reddish colour. The 
flowers appeared in August, and consisted of five petals, 
crenate at the edge, and of a yellow colour. ‘The leaves are 
trifoliate, the leaflets are inversely heart-shaped. 

The experiment of cultivating this tuber may be considered 
as hitherto very successful; and when we consider that the 
common potato was long confined to gardens, producing roots 
which were exceedingly small, and was far less promising 
than the O’xalis crenata at present appears; we may reason- 
ably anticipate that it may prove a valuable addition to our 
culinary vegetables, and that, by skilful cultivation, the tubers 
may be greatly increased in size. 

Iam, Sir, yours, &e. 
Jan. 10. 1833. James MitTcHELL. 


A coop figure and an interesting account of the O’xalis 
crenata were published in the second series of Sweet’s British 
Flower-Garden, t. 125., about a year ago. It should be 
remembered that the autumn and close of 1832 have been 
remarkable for their mildness, and for being almost totally 
free from frost. A notice of this plant has been already given 
in Vol. VIII. p.16.— J. D. 


80 Mole-Trap. — Cheap Iron Field-Gate. 


Art. XXVI. Short Communications. 


More-Trapv in Use near Monmouth. — Sir, Much hav- 
ing been said, in your useful and interesting Gardener’s Ma- 
gazine, respecting mole-traps, allow me to offer one to your 
notice which has long been in use near Monmouth. When 
I lived near that town, I employed a man who then lived at 
Penault, near Monmouth, to catch my moles, or wunts, which, 
although they abounded in very great numbers, he did most 
effectually, at a small expense, considering the destruction, 
after the box-traps were provided and the first year paid. 
The contrivance is a fall-trap, made by a square piece of 
wood or trough, the hollow in the inside about three inches 
diameter in the square, made of four pieces of wood about 
three eighths of an inch thick ; the whole of the trough 
being about two feet long. In the centre of this a moy- 
able bit of wood is fixed, or rather worked on a strong 
wire, which, as the animal passes over it, lets him fall 
into the trap, from which there is no return, ‘To this trough 
is fixed in its centre, by a willow twig, a box (well planed 
within), much like a microscope box in form, about eighteen 
inches deep, and about four inches’ diameter m the clear at 
top. But as your Magazine is universally read in the neigh- 
bourhood of Monmouth, no doubt some one there or else- 
where, where this trap is in use, will see this notice, who can 
furnish you with a drawing of the trap, and can give you a 
better description of it than I am capable of doing, as I have 
not even seen one for these twenty years past. I think, where 
moles are in but small quantities, the traps already described 
in your Magazine may do very well; but where they abound 
in vast numbers, as they do near the woods in the neighbour- 
hood of Monmouth, they are inefficient for the purpose. The 
only objections I see to the fall-traps are, the first expense of 
traps, &c., and their great cruelty, as, when the traps remain 
for some length of time uninspected, the moles devour each 
other. Iam, Sir, yours, &c.— Thomas Hawkins. The Haw, 
near Gloucester, August 1.1832. 

A very cheap Iron Field-Gate.— Sir, With this I send 
you a sketch (fg..19.) of an iron field-gate, which I think 
you will allow that I am warranted in calling very cheap, 
when I inform you that it can be supplied for 26s. singly, but, 
if in quantities of twenty and upwards in number, for still less. 
For strength in the construction, and durability of material, 
I have not as yet seen a gate at the same cost to compete 
with mine. It is made of wrought iron, and the horizontal 


Egg Plant. ; 31 


bars and braces are of flat bar-iron, riveted together at every 
intersection, in order to prevent the swagging or sinking of 


19 


the head, as it is called. Mr. Telford’s iron gate, noticed 
in Vol. VIII. p. 85., does exceedingly well for the pur- 
pose for which it was contrived, viz. for toll-gates on public 
roads ; but that it is not calculated for general use, as a farm 
gate, is quite evident from a mere inspection of the drawing 
there given, when it will be seen that pigs, sheep, &c., 
may readily pass through it; besides which, the cost would 
be considerable, on account of the extra-labour and weight 
of material, such gates being very heavy. In asserting 
this, I am speaking from experience, having made gates 
upon the same design. The gate of which I now send you 
a sketch, I consider well adapted for farms; because, from 
its great durability, it will be found more economical than 
a wooden gate. I am, Sir, yours, &c. — George Cottam. 
Winsley Street, London, March 6. 1832. 

The Egg Plant (Solanum ovigerum Dunal, S. Melongéna L.). 
— TI remark you are about to publish a Supplement to the 
Encyclopedia of Plants. 1 subjoin some synonymes of the 
Solanum Melongena, if you choose to make use of them: — 
ge plant, English; Aubergine, French; Corne de’ Greci, 
Italian; Bahmia, Smyrna; Ocha, West Indies. It is generally 
used at Smyrna, in France, Italy, and the West Indies (that 
is, the purple varieties, long, and round) as a vegetable; but, 
though I have tried different methods of cooking, I have 
always found them too high in flavour to suit my palate, or 
that of any of my friends. They are hot, burning, sweet, and 
acrid, when fried. I have grown the round 82 in. in cireum- 
ference, and 5in. in length; the long, 7in. in length, and 
6in. in circumference ; in rich garden soil, under a high paper 
frame (like a house), without artificial heat.—J. C. K. 


Vou. LX. — No. 42. G 


82 


REVIEWS. 


Art. 1. Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London. 
Second Series. Vol. I. Part I. 4to. London, Hatchard. 


(Continued from Vol. VIII. p. 439.) 


18. Journal of Meteorological Observations made in the Garden of 
the Horticultural Society at Chiswick during the Year 1828. By 
Mr. William Beattie Booth, A.L.S. 

Turis paper occupies 16 pages, and is illustrated by an 
engraved diagram. 


19. An Account of the striped Hoosainee Persian Melon. By 
Thomas A. Knight, Esq. F.R.S., President. Read Oct. 4. 1831. 
Mr. Knight believes that the seeds of many different varie- 

ties of melon were received from Persia under the same 
name. The striped Hoosainee was introduced in 1824; and 
from Mr. Lindley, in the winter of 1830,Mr. Knight re- 
ceived seeds. From these one plant only was produced, and 
this so feeble, that it was difficultly kept alive; but by great 
care, and by engrafting two of its feeble lateral shoots upon 
two of the plants growing in contiguous pots, he succeeded 
in obtaining three melons. The plant offered blossoms very 
freely, and would have borne fruit much sooner than it did ; 
but, when ‘I wish to preserve the seeds of the fruit, I never 
suffer fruits to set, nor even blossoms to unfold, till the powers 
of the plant to nourish its fruit have been given time to accu- 
mulate.” Of the three melons, the largest weighed not more 
than four pounds; their form oval, a third longer than broad ; 
their colour dark-green, in broad stripes, with narrow inter- 
vals of dull white, which became faintly yellow, as the fruit, 
which was much netted, approached maturity. The pulp was 
externally green, but more internally pale red, excessively 
juicy, and more perfectly melting than that of the finest 
Ispahan ; and its juice was more sweet and highly flavoured 
than I had ever previously found that of any other fruit of the 
species tobe. Gardeners and other persons all expressed the 
same opinion of its merits. Mr. Knight grew and ripened 
his fruit very slowly; but all ripened well without bursting, 
and remained sound and perfect a fortnight after they had 
been gathered, and all became externally very soft, without 
exhibiting any symptoms of approaching decay. 


Transactions of the London Horticultural Society. 83 


As soon as Mr. Knight discovered that one very sickly 
plant was the sole result of the first packet of seeds, he ob- 
tained a second packet, from which six plants arose. “ All 
these afforded striped fruits; but the pulp of five was perfectly 
white, and that of one, which possessed no merit, was deep 
yellow, as in common melons; and the fruit of almost every 
plant differed, to some extent, in form and external colour. 
The pulp of four of the varieties, which I retained, was per- 
fectly white, and very tender, and the juice very abundant and 
very sweet; but the pulp was not in any of them what I 
could call melting.” The melons produced by these plants 
all burst before they became perfectly ripe; but Mr. Knight 
conceives this probably owing to giving water holding manure 
in solution too abundantly, and till too late a period; his 
object being perfect seeds rather than perfect fruits; and he 
hopes that the imperfection of the pulp arose from the imper- 
fect maturity of the fruit, in some degree at least. Mr. Knight, 
expecting his six plants, raised at the second sowing, would 
all produce perfectly similar fruits, employed the pollen of all 
indiscriminately, but as the pulp of one of them was yellow and 
worthless, he is doubtful of the character of the fruit which 
may spring from the seeds produced. He has obtained pure 
seeds of one of the white-fleshed varieties, but doubts the 
permanence of the habits of these varieties, even from seeds 
preserved free from hybridisement. 


20. Upon the Preparation and Management of Plants during a 
Voyage from India. By N. Wallich, M.D. F.R.S. &c. Read 
July 19: 1831. 


Dr. Wallich, during his residence in India, has “ had 
many opportunities of judging how far the various modes of 
packing plants for their voyage to Kurope are successful, or 
otherwise ;” and in his somewhat recent voyage to Europe, 
by bringing with him a considerable number of living plants, 
has had personal experience “ of the gradual influence of 
those successive changes of climate to which plants are ex- 
posed during their transmission.” He considers the condition 
of the individual specimens to be transported a material point, 
and one usually not enough attended to. ‘“ Very often plants 
of tender age, or already weak and sickly, or grafts only 
recently or imperfectly united to their stock, are crowded 
together hastily into the travelling-cases, and put on ship- 
board without being sufficiently rooted. These soon perish, 
or become so sickly, that, if their lives hold through the 
journey, they perish presently after; it is, in consequence, 


recommended that plants already advanced in age, with a 
G2 


84 Transactions of the London Horticultural Society. 


strong root and thick stem, should invariably be selected ; and 
that only such grafts be chosen as have already been firmly 
established for two or three years on old healthy stocks.” 

«In packing, the following directions particularly require 
to be observed : —That the packing cases may not be trouble- 
some, unwieldy, and unsightly, no case should be more than 
three feet long, eighteen inches in width, and sixteen in depth 
below the roof; I have taken these dimensions from a due 
consideration of the places where plants are generally stowed 
on board ship, namely, on the poop, or in front of the cuddy. 
The depth of the roof should be sixteen inches more, so that 
the shutters, when opened, will be the same depth as the sides 
of the boxes. The breadth of the upper rail should be five 
inches, which will admit of a piece of painted canvass, suf- 
ficiently large to cover the whole sides, to be rolled upon it, 
and fixed to each side. 

«© I would here observe that I would on no account use the 
common tarred canvass, which is a very imperfect defence 
against rain and sea spray; and that, whenever a number of 
chests are to be placed in a row close to each other, it is pre- 
ferable to use one piece of canvass instead of many. Some 
attention should also be paid to the neatness of the appearance 
of the cases, as captains are very unwilling to allow the deck 
to be occupied by unsightly objects: they should be well 
clamped together with iron, and painted. On no account should 
holes be bored in the ends for passing rope handles through ; 
the latter are perfectly useless. The roofs should be glazed 
either with stout glass, or with the Chinese oyster shell, or 
with plates of thick talc. 

‘© Each plant should have a separate square pot, made of 
wood, of such a size that eight should be contained in each 
case: they should not fit too tightly together, but should be 
so contrived that any one may be lifted out without disturbing 
the remainder. This [besides conveniently enabling any thing 
to be done to the plants individually] renders it easy to 
replace deaths, if the ships touch at any port on their voyage. 
The pots should have three or four holes bored in their 
bottoms; but there should be no holes in the bottom of 
the chest; for it is at such apertures that rats on ship-board 
always commence their depredations, and there is no advan- 
tage whatever in the holes. Between the bottoms of the pots 
and the bottom of the case should be a layer, three inches 
deep, of broken glass and pebbles; the former renders it 
impossible for vermin to establish themselves in the cases. 
The cases should be raised two inches from the deck by 
little feet. 


Transactions of the London Horticultural Society. 85 


** In the treatment on board, too much attention cannot be 
given to exposing the plants to the open air at all times when 
the weather will admit of it. Asa general rule, it may be said 
that the boxes should be kept shut as long as the sun is 
above the horizon, and opened during the night, whenever 
the weather appears steadily fine. Where the cases are 
placed under the awning, the former precaution is less 
necessary; and a due consideration of the changeableness 
of weather at sea will of course direct particular attention 
to closing the roofs, if bad weather come on. Whenever a 
shower falls, the plants should be fully exposed to it, taking 
care, at the same time, that too much moisture be not 
admitted. 

«« With regard to watering, it is desirable that the captain 
should provide for each plant one pint a day; because, 
although in rainy weather no water is required, yet, if the 
weather is very hot, a larger allowance than this may be ne- 
cessary. The water should be given in such a manner that 
the leaves and branches may be refreshed, besides the root ; 
part should therefore be sprinkled over them, the rest poured 
on the earth. Generally, half a pint of water should be 
sprinkled over the plants before you shut them up in the 
morning, and the same quantity when the cases are opened 
in the evening ; a greater quantity will, however, of course, 
be given in hot dry weather, than when the sky is overcast, 
and the air moist. It has happened, in the large collection 
brought home by myself, as well as in another which came 
subsequently in the same ship [the Orient, Captain Thomas 
White], that such was the vigour with which plants thus 
treated grew, that it was frequently necessary to have recourse 
to the knife, in order to check their luxuriance. 

*¢ When the plants have arrived in England, they should 
not be immediately taken from their pots, but allowed to 
remain in them in a conservatory or hot-house, according to 
the nature of the plants themselves, or the season of their 
arrival. Water should be sparingly given, and the plants 
well cleansed from the dust and other matters which may 
have collected on their leaves during their voyage.” 

The doctor concludes his valuable paper by confessing 
that, “* after all, the success of a consignment of plants de- 
pends so much upon the good-will of the captain, and his dis- 
position to promote the objects contemplated, that, unless 
both interest and zeal concur, even the best arrangements 
will be frustrated.” Dr. Wallich was fortunate in having 
to cooperate with Captain White, in whom were both these 


qualities. 
G3 


86 Transactions of the London Horticultural Society. 


21. Some Account of a new Cherry, called the Early Purple Guigne. 
By Mr. Robert Thompson, Under-Gardener in the Fruit De- 
partment of the Garden of the Society. Read June 1. 1830. 


The May Duke is our best early cherry, but others of 
great excellence ripening at the same time as, or soon after, it, 
have lately been added to our catalogues and collections. Of 
these, Knight’s Early Black and the Black ‘Tartarian are of 
the highest merit. ‘ But as the difficulty of procuring fruit 
is greater in May and the beginning of June, than at any 
other period of the year, the Early May cherry has long been 
cultivated as the early substitute of the May Duke, because it 
ripens, or rather colours, about a week before the May Duke, 
although it really does not possess a single good quality.” The 
relative merit of this new kind, the Karly Purple Guigne, 
consists in that it is “* superior to the Early May in size and 
quality, and ripens even earlier ;” and on the ground of these 
qualities it is thought “ an acquisition of the greatest im- 
portance.” Whenthis Early Purple Guigne, the Early May, 
and the May Duke, are grown in similar situations, the Early 
Purple Guigne is in full perfection when the Early May is 
barely ripe, and when the May Duke is quite green: it may 
be said to ripen about a fortnight earlier than the May Duke, 
and to be fully equal to it in quality. Its fruit ‘* is of a good 
size, somewhat heart-shaped and compressed ; its footstalks 
are long, of moderate thickness, rather deeply inserted in an 
almost round cavity; its skin is of a shining dark purple 
colour when the fruit is well ripened. The flesh is purplish, 
juicy, tolerably soft and tender, with a sweet rich flavour. 
The stone is of a middle size, of a roundish ovate figure : 
ripens on an east or west wall in the first week in June: ona 
south aspect it may be obtained in the end of May. Has 
been distributed from the Society’s Garden under the erro- 
neous name of the Early Purple Griotte; which misnomer 
arose from its originally and accidentally forming one of a 
collection received in 1822 from Geneva, named Griotte de 


Chaux. 


22. On the Means of prolonging the Duration of valuable Varieties 
of Fruits. By Thomas A. Knight, Esq. F.R.S., President. Read 
May 3. 1831. 


Mr. Knight believes that all the constitutional properties of 
every variety of fruit are contemporaneously inherent in all 
the plants which can be made from the buds of that variety, if 
taken as they usually are from the branches, be the mode of 
multiplying the buds of these branches into plants what it 
may. No trees of any variety “can be made to produce 


arms 


ransactions of the London Horticultural Society. 87 


blossoms or fruit, till the original tree of that variety has 

attained its age of puberty; and under our ordinary modes of 
- propagation by grafts and buds, all [the individual plants of 
any given variety, as we understand it] become subject, 
within no very distant period, to the debilities and diseases of 
old age. It is therefore desirable that the planter should 
know at what periods of their existence varieties of fruits are 
most productive and eligible; and by what means (if any 
exist) the deterioration of valuable varieties may be prevented 
or retarded.” Mr. Knight has been accustomed to consider 
“‘ that each variety possessed its greatest value in its middle 
age,” but now believes ‘ that, in vegetable as in animal life, 
the most prolific period is that which immediately succeeds 
the age of puberty.” Out of a good many experiments which 
led Mr. Knight to this conclusion were these :— From seed- 
ling pear trees twenty years of age, and which had borne 
their first fruit in the preceding autumn, he, in July 1828, 
took from the extremity of their leading branches buds, and 
inserted them into seedling pear stocks, then only four months 
old. Many of these budded plants, although not transplanted, 
nor subjected to any peculiar mode of treatment, produced 
blossoms abundantly vigorous in the spring of 1831, and con- 
sequently at but three years from the date of their springing 
from the ground. Mr. Knight remarks :—‘ I never pre- 
viously saw, and I do not think that any other person has 
seen, in this climate, fruit produced by pear trees at so early 
an age. I had previously made the same experiment with 
apple trees, with the same results.” Mr. Knight laid some 
branches of a plum tree, which had not attained the age of 
puberty, which (as he expected) freely emitted roots; but he 
found, contrary to his expectation, that the young shoots 
which these layers had produced afforded, in the following 
spring, much blossom. ‘The variety of plum experimented 
on, Mr. Knight believes to be one exceedingly productive 
of blossom: “ but,’ he adds, “ I doubt much if such blos- 
soms would have appeared, if the variety had been a century 
old.” Thus, while Mr. Knight hence infers that grafts or 
seeds taken from the bearing branches of very young seedling 
trees afford trees capable of bearing freely at a very early 
age, and, in consequence of their youthfulness, likely to con- 
tinue to grow with health and vigour; yet he readily admits 
that this information will not subserve the object of prolong- 
ing the duration of existing varieties of fruits, if every part of 
seedling trees is in the same degree affected by age. ‘This, 
however, Mr. Knight states, is not the case; for “ the decay 


of the powers of life in the roots of seedling trees is exceed- 
G 4 


88 Transactions of the London Horticultural Society. 


ingly slow, comparatively with [the decay of the powers of life 
in] the bearing branches. Scions [shoots] obtained from the 
roots of pear trees of 200 years old afford grafts which grow 
with great vigour, and which, in many cases, are covered with 
thorns, like young seedling stocks ; whilst other grafts, taken 
at the same time from the extremities of the branches of such 
trees, present a totally different character, and a very slow 
and unhealthy growth. I do not, however, conceive that any 
scion [shoots] which thus springs from the root of an old tree 
possesses all the powers of a young seedling tree; but it cer- 
tainly possesses no inconsiderable portion of such powers ; 
and I have proved such scions to be capable of affording 
healthy trees of a considerable size. 

sc If grafts or buds were taken from such scions [shoots], 
on their first emission [from the roots], much time would 
elapse before any blossom would be produced; but, if buds 
were not taken from such scions [shoots] till the branches at- 
tained the age of puberty, no loss of time whatever would 
subsequently occur. 

‘* The branches of the plum tree, in the experiment above 
mentioned, emitted roots just at the period when they had 
attained the age of puberty; and I do not doubt but that 
scions [shoots] from the roots of these will spring from the 
soil, in full possession of all the powers attached to the branches 
from which they derived their existence. My own experience 
leads me to think that trees of the pear, the apple, and the 
plum may be better raised by layers and cuttings of the 
roots, than by the methods usually practised, and at less 
expense.” 

Myr. Knight remarks, in conclusion, that the permanent 
preservation of valuable and new varieties of fruits, of which 
the Society’s garden contains many, in their pristine and pre- 
sent state of health and vigour, appears to be an object of 
great importance; as does the retardation of the decay of 
many varieties, “ such as the Cornish Gilliflower apple, 
which, in my estimation, is and always was without a rival in 
the climate of England.” 


23. On the Propagation of the Balsam (Impatiens Balsamina L..) 
by Cuttings. By Mr.G. John Towers, C.M.H.S. Read Oct. 18. 
1831. 


Mr. Towers had raised balsam plants from seeds received ~ 
from Madras, which grew sufficiently; ‘ but scarcely any of 
them exhibited, throughout the summer, the slightest appear- 
ance of producing flowers. Finding this to be the case,” he 
says, * I took a small cutting at the extremity of one of the 


Memoirs of the Caledoman Horticultural Society. $9 


upper lateral shoots, about three inches long, and not so thick 
as a goose-quill. I cut it off just below a leaf, removed that 
leaf, and planted the cutting an inch deep, in a very light 
sandy compost, similar to bog earth; plunged the pot (a 60) 
in a hot-bed of leaves, and covered the cutting with a glass. 
The earth was slightly watered, and subsequently kept in a 
moist state. ‘This was done on the 28th of August; by the 
12th of September the cutting had formed roots, and was 
growing ; the glass was removed, and flower-buds soon after 
became apparent.” By the 12th of October the plant had 
become eleven inches high, and had expanded two flowers, 
and more were ready to follow. By this time, also, five other 
cuttings of a balsam, taken off in the middle of September, 
had struck, were growing freely, and had each protruded 
blossoms. All this time the original seedling plants had 
* evinced no sign of producing blossom.” Mr. Towers’s 
object was to obtain plants for preserving alive through the 
winter, that he might not lose the kind, of which, as the bal- 
sam is annual, and as his seedling plants neither flowered nor 
seeded, there was every prospect. ‘To promote this perpetu- 
ation, Mr. Towers deemed it advisable to pinch off all the 
flower-buds from the plants formed from the second set of 
cuttings. 
(To be continued.) 


Arr. II. Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. Vol. V. 
Part I. 8vo. Edinburgh, Maclachlan and Stewart. 


(Continued from Vol. VIII. p. 442.) 


2. Notes respecting Trees, Shrubs, economical Plants, and other 
Objects of Horticulture, as they occurred at different Places on 
the Rhine, and in France, in the Years 1824, 1825, and 1826. 
By W. A. Cadell, Esq. F.R.S. Read March 4. 1830. 


Tue tubers of the Zathyrus, tuberdsus, boiled, are sold in 
the streets of Nimeguen in the month of August. At Heidel- 
berg almonds are grown for sale on standard trees. At 
Schwetzingen the mistletoe is common on the poplar; at 
Carlsruhe, on the Scotch pine, and at Strasburg on lime trees. 
In Britain the mistletoe does not occur naturally farther 
north than about 544°; but it is met with in some gardens 
near Edinburgh, in lat. 56°. “It is stated by authors that 
the Lombardy poplar was introduced at Pavia from Asia, 
about the year 1590, and only the male plant (see Vol VI. 


90 Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 


.419.). An oil is made from beech mast in the neigh- 
bourhood of Baden. Strasburg, situated in a fertile country 
and favourable climate, is célebrated for the cultivation of 
kitchen-garden stuff and fruit trees. Grapes and figs ripen 
there in the open air. The fruit of Cornus mascula and of 
Sorbus doméstica are brought to market. A spirit is made 
from plums, as well as from cherries. Currants are common, 
but not gooseberries. Wood strawberries are abundant in 
June, and also bilberries. Before cabbage is sliced for sauer 
kraut, the core or central part is taken out with a conical iron 
scoop. [In pickling red cabbages in some parts of England, 
the lower part of the core is cae out with a knife, it ‘being 
found not to keep so well as the leaves, and to give a strong 
taste to the vinegar.— J. W. L.] [In the kitchens of the 
colleges at Cambridge, apples are freed from their cores with 
an instrument like a cheese-taster, and this may be called a 
conical iron scoop; its figure resembles that of the capital 
letter Y, and the branches are for the handhold; the apple is 
held in the left hand, and bored through stalk, core, and 
eye at once, and a cylindrical plug 1 is brought out. — J. D.] 
The common and Portugal laurels, the arbutus, the laurustinus, 
and the alateraus, which require shelter at Paris, Strasburg, 
and Vienna, during the most severe weather, require none ae 
Edinburgh. “ A ‘nuch greater number of exotic plants are 
injured by the winter’s cold at Kdinburgh, whilst they grow 
freely at Paris and Strasburg. These are plants which re- 
quire a warm summer in order to ripen their shoots, and 
bring them into a woody state. In the warm summers of 
Paris and Strasburg, the plants accomplish this; but the 
cannot accomplish it in the lower temperature of Edinburgh, 
whence the roots remain tender, and are killed by the frost. 
The Palma Christi (Zticinus communis) 1 is an example of the 
effect of summer heat in ripening the wood; for in Britain 
this plant remains herbaceous, and in the open air lives only 
one season ; but in Barbary it is perennial, and grows to be a 
woody tree of 12 ft. in height. On the other hand, the trees 
of the temperate zone, after they have perfected their shoots, 
require a colder season, during which their growth may be 
less active: it would seem that the heat which excited them 
to grow must not be continued during the whole year. It 
has been found that the European forest trees will not grow 
in Ceylon ; they are killed by the constant action of the heat 
which prevails without intermission in that climate. Lime 
trees grow to a large size near Strasburg. Hornbeam is the 
wood most esteemed at Strasburg for fuel. This wood being 


compact, is also used for stocks of carpenters’ planes. Oak 


Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 91 


timber is sent to Paris, from the country around Nanci, for 
the use of the house-carpenter. It is the wood of the Quércus 
pedunculata of Lamarck, which grows to a large tree, with 
a straight well-proportioned trunk. It differs from the 
Quércus sessiliflora, by its pedunculated acorns, and by its 
wood being of a less specific gravity. Its wood is less knotty, 
for which reason it is preferred for several kinds of work. It 
is said that the wood of the Quércus pedunculata is more sub- 
ject to dry rot than that of Q. sessiliflora. The term merrain 
means oak wood split into cask staves. 

At Thann, the Colchicum autumnale abounds in the mea- 
dows, but the cows never touch it. [The case is the same in 
the meadows at Hawstead, and other villages near Bury St. 
Edmunds. — J. D.] The stalks of hemp, after being stripped 
of the outside fibre, are used in some part of Franche-Comté 
to make sulphur matches. ‘On some of the rocky calca- 
reous hills at Besancon there grows a great deal of box; and 
at St. Claude, fifty miles to the south, boxwood is wrought 
into various articles. Box occurs in Franche-Comté, the 
Jura, Dauphiné, the Pyrenees, where Ramond remarks that 
it is found in the great valleys as far up as the height of about 
6000 ft.; but he observes that it does not extend into the 
collateral valleys. It grows in the Levant, from which we 
import the wood under the name of Turkey box; and like- 
wise in Italy and Spain. One of its most northerly stations 
is Boxhill, near Dorking, in Surrey, where it grows luxuri- 
antly on a chalky soil. Dwarf box, such as is used for edg- 
ings, is indigenous on chalk rocks in the barren soil of 
Champagne.” 

The fruit of the Cratee‘gus torminalis is sold in the market 
at Besancon. ‘ Between Chartres and Nogent le Rotru, 
whin hedges appear. ‘They are cut every three years, and 
used as fuel for bakers’ ovens. ‘The young shoots are bruised 
and given to cattle. Whin hedges are frequent also in 
Guernsey, where they are likewise cut for fuel. At Le Mans, 
a kind of kale, 6 ft. high, is cultivated in gardens.” 

The pomegranate ripens its fruit in the open air at Tours, 
where the Arindo Donax grows 12 ft. high. The botanic 
garden at Angers is ‘neatly laid out with walks and shrub- 
beries, in the irregular or English style. _d’triplex Halimus 
is employed to form hedges of 3 ft. high in the garden. ‘The © 
plant bears clipping, and retains its leaves during winter, so 
as to form a handsome low hedge. It is indigenous to some 
parts of the sea-coast of France. Photinia glabra grows well 
as a standard here. Eriobétrya japonica was in flower in the 
open air, 20th December. The stone pine (Pinus Pinea) 


92 Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 


produces cones at Nantes, and the cones containing the edible 
nuts are sold in the streets. ‘This pine [fig. 37. p. 230. Vol. V.], 
which is frequent at Rome and in Tuscany, has a peculiar form, 
which is distinguished in pictures of Italian landscape, the 
branches spreading out like an umbrella at the upper part of 
the stem, and forming a flat top. I do not recollect to have met 
with this pine in places in the interior of France under the same 
parallel with Nantes (47° 15’), where the winters are colder 
than they are near the sea. At Paris, however, there are two 
that produce fruit on the mount in the Jardin des Plantes. In 
Britain the Pinus Pinea seldom attains the size of a large tree, 
the temperature not being high enough.” 

«‘ Between Nantes and Clisson occur many smallish fields, 
enclosed by hedges of hawthorn, bramble, and whin, with 
hedgerow trees of pollard oak. This is the part of La Vendée, 
called Le Bocage. Some patches of winter flax are now 
(11th January) green, and 2 in. high. This kind of flax is by 
some authors stated to be a variety differing from the flax 
which is sown in spring. Clisson, on the side of the river, 
nearly opposite to the old grey towers of the castle, is the 
villa, with extensive and picturesque grounds, of M. Mott the 
sculptor. ‘The grounds were laid out by him, and are orna- 
mented, in proper situations, by Italian buildings, temples, 
and antique statues. There are some large specimens of 
Pinus Pinea in the neighbourhood of Bordeaux. It is long 
before the trees begin to produce cones. The cones, contain- 
ing the nuts, are sold in the streets.” 

In Barbary and the Levant, an oil is made from the berries 
of the Melia Azedarach, which is used in lamps. Rushes are 
planted along the edge of the Languedoc canal, to prevent the 
bank from being washed down. ‘The egg plant is much 
cultivated at Narbonne as an esculent vegetable. 

The kitchen-gardens at Montpelier, and in other parts 
of the south of Languedoc and Provence, are watered 
by means of rills (77goles in French). The highest part of 
these rills is at the well, and from that they are conducted 
with a small declivity round all the beds of the garden. 
‘When any bed does not require water, the branch of the rill 
which supplies it is for the time stopped with earth. The 
water is raised from the well by machinery, moved by a horse 
of very moderate strength. In some places the machine is a 
chain pump, consisting of an endless chain, with earthen pots 
attached to it, the chain hanging upon a drum-wheel. In 
other places it is a wheel of so large a diameter, that whilst 
the upper part is higher than the surface of the ground, the 
lower part is immersed in the water, and wooden buckets are 


Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 93 
affixed to the rim of the wheel. The irrigation wheel of this 
construction is used in many of the countries that surround 
the Mediterranean; in Egypt it is called naourah ; in Spain, 
noria. In China the irrigation wheel is used, and is made 
entirely of bamboo. This mode of watering gardens by rills 
requires less labour than the practice of carrying the water in 
watering-pots. It is suited to the warm and parched climate 
of Languedoc and Provence, but is not practised in the mid- 
dle and north of France, where less watering is required. 

“The cardoon (Cynara Cardinculus) is much cultivated 
in kitchen-gardens at Montpelier, and in Provence; the 
blanched footstalks of the leaves being boiled, and used at 
table. The dried florets of this plant have the property of 
coagulating milk, and are sold for that purpose at Montpelier. 
Seeds of annual flowers are collected from the wild plants in 
the country about Montpelier, and sent to Holland, where 
they are sold for the use of the flower-garden. Spanish broom 
(Spartium janceum) is used for making cloth at Lodéve, thirty 
miles north-west of Montpelier. It is sown in January, on 
dry banks, which have been slightly dug or ploughed. About 
the fourth year the stalks are long enough to be used for 
their filaments. The stalks are pulled in August, tied in 
bunches, which are placed in a ditch covered with straw, and 
watered during eight or nine days; the bunches are then 
beaten on a stone; they are opened out and dried, they are 
then combed, and the filament is now fit to be spun. Sheep 
are also fed with the young branches. Between Montpelier 
and Gauges the small branches of box are used as litter for 
cattle. 

‘¢ In the Cevennes, chestnuts are an article of food, and the 
inhabitants have a process of kiln-drying them, so that they 
will keep good for two or three years. ‘The process consists 
in exposing the chestnuts, on the floor of a kiln, to the smoke 
of a smothered wood fire. ‘The heat is applied gently, so as 
to make the internal moisture transpire through the husk of 
the chestnut. The fire is kept gentle for two or three days, 
and then is gradually increased during nine or ten days. ‘The 
chestnuts are then turned with a shovel, and the fire is con- 
tinued till they are ready. This is known by taking out a few 
and threshing them; if they quit their inner skin, they are 
done. The chestnuts are then put in a bag, and threshed with 
sticks, to separate the external and internal husk. If the husks 
are left on, as is practised in the Limousin, the chestnuts be- 
come black, by imbibing from the husk the empyreumatic oil 
of the wood smoke, and do not keep so well. 

‘6 Stercilia platanifolia (le parasol Chinois, the Tomchu of 


94 Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 


the Chinese) grows to a handsome tree of 8 in. diameter, in 
the botanic garden at Marseilles. ‘The trunk is straight, 
with a fine smooth bark. There are some at Avignon like- 
wise in the open air. At Lyons and at Paris it is usually 
kept in the green-house, although it is there considered capa- 
ble of bearing the cold of ordinary winters, when sheltered 
from the north, and when covered in time of frost. 

«* There are but few places on the coast of Provence and 
Languedoc where orange trees grow all the year in the open 
air, and these are in situations well sheltered from the north. 
Hiéres is one of them: it is situated 50’ south of the parallel 
of Florence. At Rome, which is upwards of a degree farther 
south than Hiéres, the orange trees are covered in winter 
with sheds, having large apertures in front, which are closed 
at night by shutters made of reeds, and opened in the day to 
admit the sun; and at Aleppo, lat. 36° 12°, nearly under the 
same parallel with Gibraltar, Russell states that orange trees 
are removed into the house in winter, although they bear the 
open air in places nearer the sea in the same geographical 
latitude.” 

(To be continued.) 


Art. III. Verhandlungen des Vereins zur Beforderung des Gar- 
tenbaues in den Koniglich Preussischen Staaten. Transactions 
of the Society for the Advancement of Gardening in the Royal 
Prussian States. 4to, 2 Plates. Vol. V. Berlin, 1828. 


1. Extracts from the London Horticultural Society's Transactions, 
Vol. vii. Part i. 


Tue essence of all the articles is given in eleven pages. 


2. On the Propagation and Culture of Roses. By M. Stichler of 
Dresden. - 

The following roses are said to flower more freely, and 
with larger better-filled double blossoms, when budded on 
brier stocks, than when on their own reots: Rosa centifodlia 
Sultana, £&. hollandica maxima, or La Duchesse de Gram- 
mont, and #. unica (unique? ] c4rnea, and R. pimpinellifolia. 

The following sorts should be worked on Rdsa semper= 
florens, on which they will bloom early, and abundantly : — 
#. muscosa, and its several varieties; A. Unica, 2. centifdlia 
sulphurea, and £. nigra vera. 


3. Notices of what took place at the Meeting of Jan. 6. 1828. 


A paper was read, written by M. Schoch, head-gardener 
at Worlitz; describing that celebrated place, which was 


Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 95 


begun to be laid out in 1768, and in which the second example 
of the introduction of American trees was afforded to Ger- 
many ; the first having been given, a few years before, in the 
Electcrate of Hanover. 

To prevent the caterpillar (Phale‘na brumata minor Z.) 
from ascending trees, M. Hallmann fastens a broad strip of 
paper round the stem; and on this lays a coating of linseed 
oil which has been thickened over the fire. Every three days 
this must be renewed. He had previously tried tar, but found 
it dry much too soon. 


4. On the Cold which certain Trees and Shrubs will bear in Germany. 


In this paper a judicious use has been made of an Essay 
on the Geographical Distribution of Vegetables, published in 
the Mémoires du Muséum @Fiistoire Naturelle, t. xiv. 1827, 
p- 356. A table is subjoined, showing the cold which dif- 
ferent trees will bear at Carlsberg, Tubingen, Hanover, 
Munich, and Berlin. Many plants which thrive at the two 
first places are killed at the last. The table embraces 709 
species; and might well bear transferring to our columns, but 
it would fill half a Magazine; and, after all, it would be chiefly 
of use to the closet botanist, to assist him in his generalis- 
ations ; and such can generally have recourse to the original. 


5. On the Liverpool Potato, and a Bleck Winter Radish. 


This Liverpool potato is said to be an early sort, without 
blossoms, extensively cultivated in the fields in the neighbour- 
hood of Liverpool, for the supply of the market. It is pro- 
posed to try it in the sandy soils in the neighbourhood of 
Berlin. The black winter radish is recommended for its 
hardiness. 


6. On the Culture of the Blue Hydrangea. 


M. Fintelmann considers it clear that the blue colour of 
the flowers of the Hydrangea is owing to the presence of iron 
in the soil; sometimes the iron is found in peat earth, and 
sometimes in loam or sand. ‘To make sure of blue flowers, 
he recommends the mixture with soil of a small quantity of 
iron filings, or of rust of iron in any form; say, about one 
twentieth part. 


7. Descriptive Notices of Two North American Needle-leaved Trees. 
By M. Schoch of Worlitz. 

These trees are the deciduous cypress, and the balm of 
Gilead fir: the former grows to the height of 30 ft., and the 
latter to 70 ft. in Germany. The resin called the balm of 
Gilead is found in lumps beneath the bark of the tree in 


96 Literary Notices. 


North America. ‘The balm of Gilead is strongly recom 
mended as an ornamental tree for parks, on account of the 
beauty of its cones, and of the fragrance with which the 
resin that exudes from them perfumes the surrounding atmo- 
sphere. The deciduous cypress M. Schoch recommends as 
very fit to mix with evergreen needle-leaved trees. He says 
it is found very hardy in Germany, and grows in any moist 
loamy soil. The wood is light, but firm; and the tree might 
probably be more frequently introduced into useful plant- 
ations in Britain. It is singular that the knobs which are 
produced by the roots of this tree, and which, even in Britain, 
rise a foot or more above the surface, never produce shoots. 


8. On Two North American broad-leaved Trees, viz. the Maple- 
leaved Liquidaémbar and the Tulip Tree. By M.Schoch. 

The Liquidémbar styraciflua grows in Virginia, Canada, 
and Mexico, in low moist situations; and, according to several 
writers, produces an aromatic resin, which exudes through 
the bark at wounded places, like the gum of the cherry tree. 
The small branches are used for fumigation to purify rooms, 
and the leaves are sometimes employed as a substitute for tea. 
The tulip tree grows best in rich, moist, loamy soil; it is very 
hardy; and its wood, being hard, heavy, tough, and beautifully 
veined, is well adapted for cabinet-work. 

(To be continued.) 


Art. IV. Literary Notices. 


NaTvuraList’s Library: conducted by Sir William Jar- 
dine, Bart. F.R.S.E. F.L.S. &c. Illustrated with numerous 
coloured plates, engraved by W. H. Lizars. In feap. 8vo. 
The first volume of this work will appear early in the present 
year. The volumes will not exceed 6s.; each of which will 
contain from 30 to 40 coloured plates. The subjects for the 
volumes which are now in preparation are: — Vol. 1. Natural 
History of Monkeys. 2. The Feline Race, or Animals of 
the Cat Kind. 3.'The Dog. 4. Sheep and Goats. 5. Deer. 
6. Eagles and Hawks. 7. Humming-Birds. §&. Creepers. 
9. Gallinaceous Birds. 10. Partridges and Grouse. 11. Ce- 
tacea, or Whales. 12. The Salmon. 13. Coleopterous Insects, 
or Beetles. 14. Bees, &c. 

Philosophical Conversations ; in which are familiarly ex- 
plained the effects and causes of many daily occurrences in 
natural phenomena. By F.C. Bakewell. 12mo. In the 
press. 


97 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


ART. I. Domestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


LABOURERS’ Gardens, Warwickshire. — On Saturday, the 3d of Novem- 
ber, 1832, the prizes offered by Sir Eardley Wilmot to the labourers renting 
garden ground in Berkswell were awarded by him to the successful candi- 
dates. The prizes were, the whole year’s rent, the half-year’s rent, and the 
quarter-year’s rent, for the three greatest quantities of wheat on one quarter 
of an acre, and the three greatest quantities of potatoes on the other quarter 
of anacre. The produce of the wheat in the three successful gardens 
was, 114 bush., 102 bush., and 93 bush. ; and of potatoes, 111 bush., 1074 
bush., and 106% bush. The average produce of all the forty gardens was, 
for each garden, as follows : — 


Omrs ned 
Wheat on one quarter acre, at 8s. 2 = % - 216 0 
Potatoes on ditto (70 bushels, at 1s. 6d.) o z SUB ay () 
8 1 0O 

Deduct £ os. d. 

Rent - = - 1 0 0 

Seed wheat = - 0 6 0 

Seed potatoes - - 09 0 

Extra-labour (perhaps) - 1 0 O 
—— 215 0 


Total profit - £5 6 0 


Thus leaving a sum which, if subdivided into weeks, will give to each 
labourer 2s. per week per annum, obtained by his own industry and exer- 
tion. The pecuniary advantage of this plan to the payers of poor-rates, as 
well as to the labourer, is too apparent to need any comment. But 
nobody can sufficiently appreciate the moral improvement resulting from 
the possession of property, however small, and the having an occupation 
to resort to, in leisure or unemployed hours, rather than going to the beer- 
shop. — H. E.W. Dec. 7. 

The Linnean Society of London, on the 21st of June last, 1832, had the 
pleasure to receive from the East India Company a munificent present of 
dried specimens of Indian plants, collected between longitude 73° and 114° 
east, and latitude 32° north to the equator. During the last fifty years 
several distinguished naturalists in the service of the East India Company 
have accumulated a very rich herbarium, which contained, besides very 
numerous duplicates, as many as 1300 genera, and about 8500 species. 
The Company has, during the last few years, with great good sense and 
liberality, distributed between 7000 and 8000 specimens from among the 
duplicates, to individuals distinguished for their botanical attainments, and 
also to some institutions, in various parts of the world; and, in June last, 
as a crowning act of judicious munificence, presented the whole of the 
remaining herbarium, which comprises about 8000 species, and at least 
80,000 specimens, to the Linnzean Society of London. The Society, fully 


Vou. IX. — No. 42. H 


98 Domestic Notices : — England. 


sensible of the great importance of such an herbarium of Indian vegetation, 
have, by voluntary contributions among themselves, provided a series of 
capacious and handsome cabinets to receive them; and into these the 
specimens, after being first arranged, are now disposed. — J. D. 

Mr. Thompson, late head-gardener to the Duke of Portland, at Wel- 
beck, in Nottinghamshire, has retired from that situation, and commenced 
practising as a “ general and landscape-gardener, improver of grounds, 
reclaimer of bogs, preparer of land for irrigation, &c. &c.,” on his own 
account. Mr. Thompson’s experience has been great and varied during 
the many years which he has superintended the multifarious improvements 
going on at Welbeck; and most sincerely do we wish him that success 
which he so well deserves. He was one of the earliest, and he has con- 
tinued one of the steadiest, supporters of this Magazine. — Cond. 

Fichsia gracilis, nearly hardy, at Whitby, Yorkshire. — 1 have at this time 
a plant of Fachsia gracilis in the open ground near 7 ft. high, and from 
four to five yards in circumference, and loaded with flowers. It is a very 
splendid plant, and has been planted out three years, and last winter was 
not cut down at all. My garden is in an open situation, three quarters of 
a mile from the sea, and at an elevation of about 120 ft. above its level. — 
Henry Belcher, Whitby. Sept. 18. 1832. 

A Horticultural Society is about to be formed at Whitby.— We are at- 
tempting to form a Horticultural Society in this remote corner of the 
country; and as I understand that the subscriptions already promised 
exceed 20/. a-year, I fully expect we shall succeed. — Id. 

A very fine Scarlet Cockscomd (Celosia cristata L.). — Sir, Allow me to 
register in this Magazine the dimensions of a cockscomb which I have 
this year (1832) grown. It was exhibited, on the 27th of July last, at the 
Northampton Horticultural show; and, on the 3lst of July, at Bucking- 
ham Horticultural show, when the comb measured 32 in. over, 14 in. long, 
and Sin. wide. Now (Oct. 12.) it measures 364 in. over, 144 in. long, and 
81 in. wide: the plant is 3 ft. 3m. high, and the comb of a very handsome 
shape, and of a scarlet colour. 1 am, Sir, yours, &c.— John Oxley, 
Gardener to the Right Hon. Lord Southampton, Whittlebury Lodge, North- 
amptonshire, Oct. 12. 1832. 

Burnard’s Seedling Peach (a beautiful drawing of which, by Mr. E. D. 
Smith, the botanical artist, is before us) has the flesh of a deep purple 
from the skin to the stone. It was raised by J. P. Burnard, Esq., in his 
garden at Eden Grove, Holloway. — Cond. 

Heaviest Gooseberries in 1832; 4 kinds in each colour. — Red. The 
Young Wonderful, 27 dwts. 13grs. This kind made its first appearance in 
1828, when a berry of it weighed 23dwts. 13 grs. Companion, 26 dwts. 
6 ers. Briton, 26 dwts. 10 grs. London, 24 dwts. 19 grs.— Yellow. Leader, 
26 dwts. 9grs. Gunner, 25 dwts. 17 grs. Teaser, 25 dwts. 6grs. Two 
to one, 25 dwts. 3 grs.— Green. Bumper, a seedling in the first year of 
fruiting, raised by John Bratherton, of Wistaston: it weighed 30 dwts. 
18ers. Peacock, 25 dwts. 8grs. Invincible, 23 dwts. 20 grs. Lord Crew, 
22 dwts. ll grs.— White. Ostrich, 24dwts. 20 grs. Chorister, 24 dwts. 
7 ers. Fleur de lis, 23dwts. 9grs. Eagle, 23 dwts. 6 grs. There are 
23 new seedling kinds of gooseberry going out this year; 5 of them red, 
5 yellow, 4 green, 9 white. — MM. Saul.  Sulyard-street, Lancaster, 
Oct. 27. 1832. 

A Prodigious Pear has been grown near this town, on a tree belonging 
to Mr. Lamb, of Cockerham: it weighed 283 oz. — Id. aye 

Exhibition of Seeds, Roots, and Plants for Farming, at the late Show of 
the Smithfield Club. — Sir, The report of the agricultural seeds, roots, and 
plants exhibited at the Smithfield Club Show, as given in Morning Chro- 
nicle of Saturday, the Herald of Tuesday, and as copied into several of the 
evening papers, is so partial, and, in some instances, so contrary to the 


Metropolitan Nurseries. 99 


facts, that, for the information of your agricultural readers, we beg to hand 
you a correct account, at least, of what was exhibited by the firm of 
Cormack, Son, and Sinclair. Another year it may be worth the attention 
of the directors to take into consideration the propriety of giving a correct 
however short, report of this department of the show, and not leaving it, as 
hitherto, to irresponsible reporters ; for it is clear that the introduction of 
new and valuable varieties of green food for stock, and of keeping up true 
and genuine those already obtained, is a point next in importance to that’ 
of the stock itself. On the stand were exhibited the different kinds of 
seeds employed in British husbandry (exclusive of the common grain) ; 
among which were all the essential natural grasses and clovers for perma- 
nent pasture, for the alternate husbandry, and for fine or garden lawns. 
In the root department, the specimens of turnips were much admired for 
the great weight and fine shape, in comparison to the bulk, which, when 
overgrown, affects the nutritive properties of the root. The red round 
measured about 35 in. in circumference, weighed 18 lbs.; the white globe 
31 in., 16 lbs.; yellow bullock 24in., 12lbs.; and the green round, green 
globe, Pomeranian, and stone in proportion. The purple and green top 
Swedes appear to have attained nearly the highest state of perfection these 
bulbs are capable of being brought to; the offal parts, as the neck and 
top, and tap-root, being now, by repeated careful selection in transplant- 
ing, reduced to as small a portion of the bulk of the root, as the necessary 
protection of it from wet and frost-requires. The purple kohl-rabi, which 
is, in some instances, an excellent substitute for cabbages or Swedish 
turnips, has been much improved of late, in bulk, shape, and quality, as 
regards the thickness of the rind. The mangold wurzel weighed from 25 lbs, 
to 35 lbs. per root of a good shape and rich saccharine quality. The spe- 
cimens of natural grasses and clovers comprehended all the species and 
varieties essential for permanent pasture on various soils; also those to be 
avoided, as couch, &c. The name was attached to each, of which there 
were upwards of 60 different species. This new and instructive part of the 
exhibition excited much attention in the visiters. We are, Sir, yours, &c. 
— Cormacks and Sinclair. 3 


Art. II. Metropolitan Nurseries. 


A LisT of the less common Kinds of Ornamental Trees and Shrubs culti- 
vated by Messrs. Buchanan and Oldroyd, Camberwell. — Sir, I perceive you 
have inserted (Vol. VIII. p. 106—113.) selections of choice plants grown 
at various provincial nurseries, but which lists are rather deficient in many 
good ornamental trees and shrubs. As we have now many articles of this 
description, which are by no means common, I have taken the liberty of 
handing you a selected list from our general catalogue; and, should you 
publish it, it may be of service to those who are forming arboretums. I 
am, Sir, yours, &c. — W. J. Buchanan. Sept. 14. 1832. 


Ornamental Trees. 


A‘cer barbatum, coccineum, dasy- color, flava, glabra, humilis, ohio- 
carpum, eriocarpum, floridum, hy- énsis, orientalis, pallida, péndula, 
bridum, heterophyllum, macro- and rubictnda. 
c4rpum, monspessulanum, mon-  A'Inus canadénsis, cordifolia, glatica, 
tanum, nigrum, nigricum ([?], angulata, incana, macrocarpa, 

_ O/palus, obtisum, platanoides oblongata, ovata, oxyacanthzefolia, 
laciniatum, saccharinum, spicatum, pumila, rubra, and serrulata. 
striatum, and tataricum. Amelanchier Botryapium, lucida, 

ZE'sculus aculeata, coccinea, dis- ovalis, spicata, and vulgaris. 


H 2 


100 


Aralia spinosa. 

Amyedalus amara, macrocarpa, and 
sibirica. 

Bétula carpinifolia, excélsa, laciniata, 
lénta, nigra, papyracea, pdntica, 
populifolia, pubéscens, and wrtici- 
folia. 

Broussonétia papyrifera. 

Carpinus americana, Betulus var. 
incisa, B. var. foliis variegatis, and 
orientalis. 

Castanea pumila, vésca var. asple- 
niifolia, vés. foliis variegatis, and 
glabra. 

Céltis australis and occidentalis. 

CérGis canadénsis and _ Siliquas- 
trum. 

Cratze\gus altaica, apiifolia, Aronia, 
Azarvlus, caroliniana, carpathica, 
Celsidna, coccinea, cordata, ellip- 
tica, edulis, flérida, fissa, glandu- 
losa, heterophylla, incisa, lacini- 
ata, linearis, mexicana, mondgyna, 
odoratissima, ovalifolia, oxyacan- 
thdides, Oxyacantha, O. punicea, 
O. stricta, O. pre‘cox, péndula, 
prunifolia, punctata, sibirica, spa- 
thulata, spinosissima, stipulacea, 
tanacetifolia, viridis, and virgini- 
ca. 

Cupréssus disticha v. patens. 

Cydonia moschata and sinénsis. 

Cytisus Labarnum, ZL. incisum, and 
I. péndulum. 

Diospyros virginiana. 

Eriobétrya japonica. 

Fagus ferruginea, sylvatica asplenii- 
folia, s. cristata, s. cuprea, s. lacini- 
ata, s. péndula, s. purpurea, and 
s. foliis variegatis. 

Fraxinus acuminata, amarissima, 
atrovirens, caroliniana, cinérea, 
elliptica, excélsior foltis variegatis, 
e. nana, e. verrucosa, floribinda, 
glaica, jaspidea, /entiscifolia, 
monstrosa, ovata, oxycarpa, oxy- 
phylla, pallida, pannosa, platy- 
carpa, pubéscens, Richard), salici- 
folia, sambucifolia, simplicifolia, 
virens, and viridis. 
leditschta aquatica, brachycarpa, 
caspica, hérrida, imérmis, micra- 
canthos, monospérma, orientalis, 
pre‘cox, purpurea, sinénsis, and 
triacanthos. 

Gymnocladus canadensis. 

Magnolia auriculata, obtusifolia, 
macrophylla, and Thomsonzdna. 


Metropolitan Nurseries. 


Morus pennsylvanica, sinénsis, and 
tatarica. 

Negindo fraxinifolia var. violacea. 

O’strya virginica. 

Pinus A’bies alba, A. nigra, Cémbra, 
Fraseri, inops, Laricio, Mughus, 
Bankstdna, maritima, ponderosa, 
resinosa, halepénsis, and rigida. 

Platanus cuneata and orientalis in- 
cisa. 

Pépulus acerifolia, angulata, canés- 
cens, grisea, heteroph{lla, hy- 
brida, levigata, macrophylla, moni- 
lifera, péndula, supina, trépida, 
viminalis, and viridis. 

Primus candicans, cerasifera, Cha- 
mecérasus, Chicdsa, hyemialis, 
pennsylvanica, serétina, virginica, 
sinénsis, Cérasus aspleniifolia, and 
C. foliis variegatis. 

P¥rus amygdaleférmis, baccata, 
Chamzeméspilus, communis folis- 
variegatis, linearis, grandifolia, 
montana, nivalis, Bollwyllericna, 
pre‘ cox, pubens,salicifolia, sinaica. 
variola, Malus foliis variegatis, 
M. coronaria, MM. hyemialis, MZ, 
sinénsis : 

Quércus 4i’gilops, alba, ambigua, 
aquatica, Banistérza, bicolor, bulla- 
ta, Catesbee¥, discolor, Cérris foliis 
variegatis, C. dentata, coccinea, 
coccifera, 4’sculus, falcata, fasti- 
giata, gramintia, heterophylla, hy- 
brida, laciniata, /aurifolia, Leu- 
combedna, lyrata, macrocarpa,ma- 
ritima, nana, nigra, obtusiloba, 
palastris, pedunculata, p. foliis 
variegatis, p. péndula, Phéllos, 
Frinus, rubra, sericea, salicifolia; 
Suber, tinctoria, Tadzin, triloba, 
Turnerz, and virens. 

Robinia crispa and procera. 

Sophora japonica and j. péndula. 

Sorbus angustifolia, acuminata, 
aurea, auriculita, crética, den- 
tata, d. minor, doméstica, hy- 
brida, latifolia, lanugindsa, longi- 
folia, nivea, pinnata, pinnatifida, 
torminalis, and vestita. 

Tilia americana, atrea, laciniata, 
parvifolia, pubéscens, and rubra. 

Virgilia lutea. 

Ulmus americana, éetulifolia, ciné- 
rea, crispa, nodosa, rubra, populi- 
folia, stricta aspera, viminalis, and 
pendula. 


Metropolitan Nurseries. 


101. 


Shrubs. 


Acacia Julibrissin. 

Acer créticum. 

Ammyrsine buxifolia. 

Ampelopsis cordata. 

Amorpha Lewisi, czerulea,and nana. 

Andromeda arborea, coriacea, spe- 
cidsa, and /igtistrina. 

Amyegdalus nana, n. alba, pumila, 
and orientalis. 

Anona triloba. 

A’rbutus Andrachne, A. hybrida, 
crispa, and procera. 

Aristotelia Macqui foliis variegitis. 

Atriplex portulacoides. 

Berberis aristata, americana, cana- 
dénsis, crética, daurica, fascicu- 
laris, glumacea, dicifolia, provin- 
cialis, vulgaris, vul. aspérrima, vul. 
alba, and yul. lutea. 

Beétula nana. 

Borya ligistrina. 

Bumelia lycidides. 

Bupletrum fruticosum. 

Caléphaca wolgarica. 

Calycanthus bullatus, glaticus, gra- 
cilis, fértilis, and lavigatus. 

Caragana Altagana, arenaria, fru- 
téscens, grandiflora, Halodéndron, 
jubata, macrophylla, pygmz‘a, 
sibirica inérmis, spinosa, and ¢ra- 
gacanthoides. 

Chimonanthus fragrans, grandiflo- 
rus, and luteus. 

Clématis calycina, cirrhosa, crispa, 
orientalis, revoluta, and Vidrna. 
Cotoneaster, affinis, a. obtusa, acu- 
minata, frigida, laxiflora, and ro- 

tundifolia. 

~Clethra acuminata and _ panicu- 
lata. 

Cornus alternifolia, alba, circinata, 
sericea, and stricta. 

CYtisus argénteus, austriacus, bi- 
florus, elongatus, decumbens, fal- 
catus, supinus, triflorus, and leu- 
canthus. 

Caprifolium pubéscens, longiflorum, 
and coccineum novum. 

Daphne collina foliis variegatis, 
pontica rubra, and JMJezereum 
serétinum. 

Diervilla humilis. 

Dirca palastris. 

Elezagnus argéntea. 

Epige’a repens. ie sie 

Escallonia alba, montevidénsis, and 
rubra. 


Hudnymus americanus, angustifo- 
lius, atropurptreus, europze‘us 
nanus, Hamiltonidnus, latifolius, 
and verrucosus. 

Fontanésia phillyreedides. 

Fothergilla alnifolia. 

Gaultheria Shdllon. 

Genista decimbens, germanica, his- 
panica, ovata, pilosa, radiata, and 
triquetra. 

Gordonia pubéscens. 

Hydrangea radiata and quercifolia. 

Ilex balearica, ciliata, Cassine, he- 
terophylla, opaca, Perddo, and 
prinoides. 

Juniperus alpina, datrica, excélsa, 
lycia, pheenicea, prostrata, and 
rectirva. 

Kalmia lucida, salicifolia,and latifolia. 

Lavandula spica alba. 

Linneze‘a borealis. 

Menziésia poliifolia var. atropurpu- 
rea, p. certlea, and p. globularis. 

Pinus palistris. 

Philadélphus gracilis and grandi- 
florus. 

Photinia serrulata. 

Potentilla floribunda. 

Prinos ambiguus, canadensis, glaber, 
lanceolatus, levigatus, and verti- 
ciliatus. 

Primus caroliniana, depréssa, pro- 
strata, and spinosa flore pléno. 

Ptélea trifoliata. 

Rhamnus alnifolius, catharticus, 
Frangula, hybridus, latifolius, pu- 
milus, saxatilis, Alatérnus, A. Clu- 
sw, and A. foliis variegatis. 

Rhododéndron dautricum, d. atro- 
virens, caucasicum, fragrans, hir- 
sutum foliis variegatis, myrtifo- 
lium, contértum, magnoliefolium, 
ponticum album, maximum 76- 
seum, marginatum, pallidum, sali- 
cifolium, pallidum, and _ several 
fine hybrids. 

Rosmarinus officinalis fol. varieg. 

Rhiés aromatica, copallina, glabra, 
Toxicodéndron, and vérnix. 

Ribes sanguineum andviscosissimum. 

Robinia amorphefolia, grandiflora, 
microphylla, and tortuosa. 

Salsola fruticosa. 

Spartium janceum flore pléno, mul- 
tiflorum luteum, m. incarnatum, 
scoparium album, sco. flore pléno, 
and variegatum. 


H 3 


102: 


Spiree‘a Alpina, arizefolia, betulifolia, 
chameedrifolia, corymbosa, flexu- 
Osa, incarnata, sibirica, thalic- 
trdides, tobdlskia, trilobata, and 
wlmifolia. 

Staphylea trifoliata. 

Studrtia Malachedéndron and mari- 
landica. 

Stjrax levigatum and officinale. 

Symphoriaglomerata foliis variegatis. 

Syringa persica alba, laciniata, ro- 
thomagénsis, certilea, and viola- 
cea. 

Taxus baccata foliis variegatis and 
hibérnica. 


Provincial Nurseries. 


Thermépsis /aburnifolia. 

Thuja plicata. 

Ulex europee‘a and stricta. 

Vaccinium amoe‘num, corymbosum, 
fuscatum, nitidum, pallidum, and 
venistum. 

Vibtrnum acerifolium, alnifolium, 
lantandides, Lentago, nudum, 
prunifolium, pyrifolium, and pu- 
béscens. 

Xylésteum montinumandsibiricum. 

Xanthoxylon fraxineum. 

Xanthorhiza apiifolia. 

Smilax rotundifolia, Aspera, and 
caduca. 


' Art. UI. Provincial Nurseries. 


Ieswicu Nursery (Messrs. R. Jeffries and Son) is situated within 
two or three hundred yards of the principal west entrance of the town 
from which it derives its name. It was founded by Mr. R. Jeffries, one of 
the present occupiers, about the year 1810, since which time additions 
have been made, and which (being in detached parts) are appropriated to 
the rearing of a general collection of fruit and forest trees, with evergreen 
and flowering shrubs ; while the original, or homestead, is a receptacle for 
the rarer flowering plants, abounding with a good collection of roses, 
American plants, and some of the most showy herbaceous plants, some 
florists’ flowers, and a very splendid collection of georginas, many of which 
were raised from seed on the premises; and among which I notice the 
following seedlings of the last two years, as bemg particularly worthy 
of the attention of the cultivator ; namely, 


Name. 


Colour. Height. 
Jeffries’s Alfred shaded maroon ft. 4 
burning coal fiery crimson 3 
unique early blood crimson 3 to 4 ft. 
Tsabella fine claret 3 to 4 
insignis fine shaded crimson 3 to 4 
incurved deep rose, white streaks 3 to 4: 
Don Pedro very thick quilled ruby 4 to 5 
conspicua fine puce 5 
Lady Rowley rosy crimson 5 
transcéndens fine shaded scarlet 5 
triste fine dark 5 
viceroy fine bright crimson 4 to 5 


There is a good green-house, with a select and excellent collection of 
green-house plants; several pits and frames for the defence of half-hardy 
plants, and other purposes. Upon the whole,this is an interesting little place ; 
but to point out every species of plant would be superfluous in itself, and 
uninteresting to the generality of readers; I therefore content myself, for 
the present, with giving the names of a few, which, on my visits there, 
struck me as being worthy of particular attention, either for their rarity, their 
beauty, or their fragrance. 

Green-house Plants. 
Alstremeéria psittacina, pulchélla, Andrémeda duxifolia. 


and tricolor. Azalea indica, pheenicea, hybrida, 
Amaryllis Johnson:. and /edifolia. 


Provincial Nurseries. 


Boronia denticulata and serrulata. 

Cereus speciosissimus, Jenkinsoni, 
and Ackermanni. 

Calceolaria bicolor, Youngi, Y. pal- 
lidior, Hopeana, polyantha, epso- 
mdna, punctata, Atkinson and 
Gellaniana. 

Chironia trinérvia. 

Cyclamen repandum and pérsicum 
odoratum. 

Escallonia rubra. 


103 


Fachsia globosa. 

Gesnéria bulbosa. 

Gladiolus natalénsis. 

Gloxinia cauléscens and candida. 

Hovea Célsz and latifolia. 

Ipomopsis élegans. 

O’xalis floribunda, 
Bowii. 

Pitcairnia staminea. 

Petunia integrifolia. 

Técoma capensis. 


Déppe, and 


The following are the more interesting of the herbaceous plants grown 


in the Ipswich Nursery :— : 


Alyssum saxatile variegatum. 

Anemone alpina. 

Aquilégia glandulosa. 

Avrabis lucida variegata. 

Asclépias tuberdsa, 

Catananche bicolor. 

Centrocarpha speciosa and grandi- 
flora. 

Calceolaria plantaginifolia and arach- 
noidea, 

Cypripedium spectabile. 

Dianthus Fischeri and pumilus [bar- 
batus 2 latifolius.] 

Dodecatheon Méadia albiflora, M. 
gigantéa, and M. élegans. 

Dracocéphalum argunense. 

Erythrolz‘na conspicua. 

Erpetion reniformis. 

Francoa appendiculata. 

Galanthus plicatus. 

Gaillardia bicolor, 
Richardsonz. 

Hemerocallis falva variegata. 

ZAthyrus grandiflorus. 


aristata, and 


Leucdjum vérnum. 

Lilium japénicum, longiflorum, and 
concolor. 

Lobelia speciosa. 

Linaria alpina. 

Lubima atropurpurea. 

Lychnis chalcedénica alba pléna. 

Onésma tatricum. 

Malva miniata and purpurata. 

Mimulus rivularis var. major. 

Pentstemon ovatus, Richardson, 
procer us, glandulosus, and spe- 
cidsus. 
Phlox, many species and varieties of. 
Potentilla Russellidna, Briénnia, 
Mackayéna, and Hopwoodiana. 
Polemonium pulchéllum and Ri- 
chardson?. 

Pulmonaria daurica. 

Sida malveeflora. 

Siléne maritima flore pléno and 
regia. 

Soldanélla montana. 

Tradescantia nivea and congésta. 


Choice hardy Shrubs. 


Bérberis fascicularis. 
Bignonia radicans major supérba. 


@otoneaster microphylla, and affinis. 


Chimonanthus fragrans. 

Caprifolium flexudsum, japénicum, 
and pubéscens. 

Calampelis scabra. 

Gaultheéria Shallon. 

Magnolia conspicua, Thomsonidna, 
and Soulangzdna. 


Messrs. Jeffries and Son are growers of seeds, and deal in them. 


Piptanthus nepalensis. 

Rhododéndron datricum atrovirens, 
fragrans, Smithiz, and Russelliana. 

Ribes atreum pree‘cox, sanguineum, 
and specidsum. 

Wistaria frutéscens and Consequana. 

Spiree‘a arizfolia and bélla. 


Iam, Sir, 


yours, &c. — John Smith, Gardener to Dykes Alewander, Esq. St. Matthew's. 


Ipswich, Dec. 27. 1832. 


104 Hloricultural and Botanical Notices, 


Art. IV. Floricultural and Botanical Notices of new Plants, and 
of old Plants of Interest, supplementary to the latest Editions of 
the “ Encyclopedia of Plants,” and of the “ Hortus Britannicus.” 


Curtis’s Botanical Magazine ; each monthly Number containing eight plates ; 
3s. 6d. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Hooker, King’s Professor of 
Botany in the University of Glasgow. 

Edwards's Botanical Register; each monthly Number containing eight 
plates ; 4s. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by John Lindley, F.R.S., Pro- 
fessor of Botany in the London University. 

Sweet's British Flower-Garden; each monthly Number containing four 
plates; 3s. coloured, 2s. 3d. plain. Edited by David Don, Esq., Libra- 
rian to the Linnzan Society. 

Loddiges’s Botanical Cabinet ; each monthly Number containing ten plates ; 
5s. coloured, 2s. 6d. partly coloured. Edited by Messrs. Loddiges. 

Maund’s Botanic Garden; each monthly Number containing one plate, 
bearing pictures of four plants ; 1s. 6d. coloured and large paper, 1s. small 
paper. Edited by Benjamin Maund, F.L.S. 


DIcoTYLEDONOUS POLYPETALOUS PLANTs. 


XLVI. Cactee. 


1472. CEYREUS. 
setdsus B. C. bristled 2 t_Jor 324 au Pk Brazil 1829. C ltl Bot. cab. 1887 


“ Tt has a trailing stem, rooting as it goes, for two or three feet in length. 
Its flowers are readily produced, and usually about the month of August.” 
(Bot. Cab., Jan. 1833.) 

Mr. Dennis has raised a number of seedling cereuses; and, as many of 
them are from hybridised seeds, some interesting varieties are expected. 
Mr. Dennis possesses an interesting-looking kind, but not of his own 
raising, named Cereus oxypétalus. 

Li. Loasez. 


1478. MENTZE‘LIA. 
12637a hispida Willd. hispid vg Alor 13 ap Y Peru 1831. S sJ Bot. thag. 3205 


This is an interesting plant ; but its flowers, of a rich yellow colour, and 
exceeding in outline the size of a shilling, seem not numerously produced. 
Dr. Hooker conceives that this may be distinct from the M. aspera of 
Linnzus. The powdered roots of some species of this genus are violently 
purgative, and in consequence used medicinally. (Bot. Mag., Dec.) 

LVI. Myrtacee. 

2179. MELALEU’CA. 
19603a? Fraser¢ Hook _‘Fraser’s % Jor 13... Pa.Ro N.S.W. 1829. C p.l Bot. mag. 3210 

«« A lowly, much-branched shrub, with many short opposite or subver- 
ticillate branches, bearing generally, towards their extremities, and crowd- 
edly, linear awl-shaped leaves. Flowers collected into a spike, of a broadly 
oval or subglobose outline, at the extremity of the branches, only 
terminated by two or three shoots of the current year’s growth.” Mr. 
Fraser, late colonial botanist at Sydney, sent it to the Glasgow garden, 
named M. genistifolia, but it is very different from the species so named by 
Smith. M. Fraser is a pretty species. (Bot. Mag., Jan. 1833.) 

LXXII. Aristolochie. 


374. ARISTOLO‘CHIA. 
22849a cymbifera Mart. boat-fiwd. $ (Jor 20 jiau Y.P St.Paul1829. Cpl Bot. reg. 1545 


. A most remarkable species, in the style of A. labidsa. The leaves, by 
the one figured, emulate in size those of the hardy A. sipho; and the 
flower, in its size, and the length of its lip, exceeds that of A. labiosa. Its 
introduction to England was by a seed-vessel, sent from South America 
by Mr. Parish to Mrs. Hawkins, of Bignor Park, about five years ago. 


supplementary to Linc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 105 


That lady gave the seed-vessel to the Rey. John Austen, of Pulborough 
Rectory, in Sussex, who raised plants from it; and from a plant in his 
stove, growing in rich soil under the pavement at the back of the stove, 
the specimen figured was supplied. In this situation it grows so vigorously, 
that armfulls of it require to be annually destroyed, to prevent its over- 
running the house. It strikes very readily from cuttings. Huge as are 
the flowers of this species, they yield in size both to A. cordiflora and 
gigantea, in which the blossoms are from 15 to 16 inches across, being 
large enough to form hats for the Indian children, who amuse themselves 
with them. (Bot. Reg., Dec.) 

LXXIII. Rosacee. 

1528. POTENTYVLLA. 

atrosanguinea-pedata Maund (hybrid) ye A or 1jn.s Dp.O Eng.hyb. 1831 D co Bot. gard. 385 

“ The novel colour of this new hybrid flower renders it very desirable. 
The plant is slender, like P. pedata. We,’ says Mr. Maund, “ raised it 
from seed of the P. atrosangufnea, fertilised with pollen of P. pedata; 
and we believe that a more perfect mixture of two distinct and dis- 
similar species is not known. ‘The dark red of the one, and full yellow of 
the other, are well mingled, and produce a rich deep orange. The foliage, 
also, of it is intermediate between that of its two parents.’ Mr. Maund, 
on the wrapper of his Botanic Garden for January, 1833, has the following 
additional remark on this plant: — “ We have presented the stock of our 
new Potentilla to the Messrs. Pope, nurserymen, Handsworth, near Bir- 
mingham. ‘This appeared to be the only practicable method by which we 
could accommodate all who may wish to possess it.” 

LXXVII. Leguminose. § Genistee. 

1952. CROTALA‘RIA. 
17387a ? striata Hook. striated-fwwd. %(ljor 3 ... Y.R Mauritius? 1831. Sl.p Bot. mag. 3200 

The figure is “ from a drawing made ten years ago from a plant in the 
collection of the late Mr. Walker, of Arno’s Grove, but unaccompanied 
with any remark. The flowers are small, numerous, and yellow streaked 
with red. (Bot. Mag., Dec. 1832.) 

Leguminise. § Mimosee. 


2837. ACAYCIA. § 4. 
24743a intermédia Cun. intermediate a, _Jor 8 .. Y N.Holl. 1818? C slp. Bot. mag. 3203 


Figured from the Kew collection, off a shrub of strong growth, 8 ft. 
high, and much branched; the branches twiggy, and bearing copious 
foliage, the leaves or phyllodia nearly 3in. long, and linear-lanceolate. 
“ Flowers crowded, fragrant, arranged in rather long, slender, cylindrical, 
spreading, sessile, deep yellow spikes, shorter than the leaves.” This kind 
has long existed at Kew; but no botanist, before Mr. Cunningham, has 
described its characteristics: its nearest affinity is to A. floribanda Willd. 
and A. mucronata Willd. (Bot. Mag., Dec.) The time of its flowering 
is not stated. 

XCVI. Rhdémnee. Pomadérris betilina Cun., already given in our 
Additional Supplement, is figured in the Botanical Magazine for January, 
t. 3212. It is an interesting-looking species, described as “a slender, and 
much branching, shrub,” with numerous small leaves, shaped like those of 
birch, and “ green and nearly glabrous above, but clothed beneath with a 
dense rusty down. Flowers small, collected into numerous dense brac- 
teated heads, which are sometimes on short solitary peduncles, from the 
axils of the leaves, or they form a sort of panicie at the extremity of the 
numerous branches.” Figured from the Kew collection, into which it was 
introduced from New South Wales, in 1823, by Allan Cunningham, Esq. 

CXXIII. Ovalidee. 


1414. OXALIS. §2. 
Cumingi Herb, Cuming’s ¥ Al? pr2 aus Go Chile 1831. S sl Bot. reg. 1545 


A pleasing species, with small pubescent leaves, and rather numerous 


106 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


golden flowers, the size of a sixpenny piece. The Hon. and Rev. W. 
Herbert, who raised it from seeds, introduced to England by Mr. Cuming, 
thus speaks of it: —“ The appearance of the little pot, containing four and 
five seedlings, which produced a constant successiun of blossoms, expanding 
without sunshine, and on the wettest days, was very pleasing.” (Bot. 
Reg., Dec.) Mr. Herbert considers the plant likely to prove a perfectly 
hardy annual, but in a frame it will possibly be perennial. 

CXXIV. Tropevlee. Tropz‘olum pentaphyllum is figured in the Bot. 
Mag. for Oct., t. 3190., and in the Bot. Reg. for Dec., t. 1547. It is a 
tuberous root-stocked green-house or pit perennial, with wreathlike stems, 
gracefully climbing by means of the long tendrilly footstalks of its pretty, 
somewhat starlike, leaves. The peduncles of the numerous, and not un- 
handsome, flowers, are gracefully long and drooping. The plant is dormant 
during the winter, and should then have plenty of air. Mr. Neill, 
Edinburgh, and Mr. Knight, Chelsea, possess the plant. 

CXL. Caryophillee. § Silenee. 


1386. DIA’/NTHUS. 
11469a Libanbdtis Lad. of Lebanon yf A or 4 au W.spot Mt.Leb. 1830.C lp Bot. reg. 1548 


“ We incline to think this most lovely species the very finest of the 
genus. Mr. Lambert is its fortunate possessor. We presume, from its 
native country, the highest points of Mount Lebanon, that it will require 
a warm and dry situation; it will then thrive in the open air.’ The 
flowers are borne in pairs on the tips of the peduncles, their tube is long, 
and the five white petals are spotted in their middle part, and end in a cut 
fringe, somewhat in the manner of D. supérbus. (Bot. Reg., Dec.) 

Dianthus aggregatus is figured, from Mrs. Marryat’s garden, in Sweet’s 
Flower-Garden for Nov., t. 166. “ It is closely related to D. barbatus, of 
which species it may be, perhaps, only a variety; but it is a highly 
ornamental plant, and, therefore, deserving of a place in every flower- 
garden. ‘The plant is perennial, delighting in a light soil, and is increased 
by cuttings, or by seeds, which it perfects in abundance.” 


DicotyLEDonous MonopetaLous Puants. 


CLXXYV. Lobeliacee. 


609. LOBE‘LI4. 
5102a mucronata Cav. mucronate-ludYy Alor 3 au Bt.C Chile 1831. D 1p Bot. mag. 3207 


This beautiful species is nearly related to the splendid L. Tupa, and is 
expected to prove, like that, comparatively hardy. ‘It is a much smaller 
plant than that, in all its parts, bearing a much shorter and more lax 
raceme of [12 to 14] flowers, but which are equally brilliant in point of 
colour.” Introduced to the Glasgow botanic garden by Alexander Cruick- 
shanks, Esq. (Bot. Mag., Jan. 1833.) = 

Lobélia speciosa is figured in Sweet’s British FlowersGarden for Jan. 
1833, t.174., and stated to be an Irish, not a Scottish, hybrid, as I had 
before registered it. This plant finely grown in pots; and several plants 
of it, placed among potted plants of the scarlet-flowered kinds, L. falgens, 
spléndens, and cardinalis, give to the group a lively contrastedness of 
colour. I saw a group of this kind in Messrs. Dennis and Co.’s nursery, 
on the 20th of August last. At the same nursery I saw, on Sept. 30., 
two very interesting species of Lobélia blooming, which had been im- 
ported, in 1832, from North America, by Mr. Alexander Gordon: whether 
they have ever been described or not, Ido not know: one is called L. 
glandulosa, and has glands on the edges of its leaves, at the shallow ser- 
ratures. Both species have blue flowers. —J. D. 

CLXXXVI. Composite. 


335. SENE‘CIO. 
Tussilaginis Less. - Coltsfoot-/ud. % \_]or 1fmy P Teneriffe 1829. C p.l Bot. reg. 1550 
Cineraria Tussilaginis Herit. and Willd. 


supplementary to Linc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 107 


“It is a handsome green-house plant, flowering very abundantly, and 
is readily increased by cuttings.” (Bot. Reg., Jan. 1833.) 
CXC. Cinchonacez Lindl. 


389, MANE’/TTI A. 
cordifolia Mart. heart-lvd. $ [J or 10? aud S Buen.Ayr. 1831. S pl Bot. mag. 3202 


A graceful evergreen suffruticose twiner, with stalked pendulous scarlet 
tubular corollas above an inch in length: the height or extent to which 
the plant attains is not stated. The plant seems well furnished with 
foliage. The leaves are shining and opposite; in figure cordate, acumi- 
nate, and the lowest and largest 4 in. long, and nearly 24 in. broad, 
gradually diminishing in size to the uppermost, which are 4 lines long 
and 2 lines broad. The plant is figured from the stove of Mr. Neill, 
Canonmills, where it first showed flower in August last. Another and 
stronger specimen is just now (10th October) opening its first blos- 
soms; and, being covered witha profusion of buds in every stage, promises 
to be exceedingly ornamental during many weeks. It was raised from seed 
sent home by Mr. Tweedie. (Bot. Mag., Dec.) 

CCXI. Serophularinee. 

1783, MI’MULUS. 
15900a variegatus Dow.  variegated-jlwd2. AV or 1 su W.Ro Chile 1831. S It. Bot. cab. 1872 

Lately introduced from Chile into France: we received it by the kind- 
ness of our friend, M. Mirbel, of the Jardin du Roi, at Paris. It flowers in 
long succession during the summer, and thrives best if the pot is placed in a 
pan of water: it appears to bear seeds freely, and, being probably not long- 
lived, it is requisite to renew it frequently. (Bot. Cab., Dec.) The limb 
of the corolla is large; and of its five divisions, four are white, the lowest 
rosy, with some yellow towards the throat : it seems in habit closely related 
to M. guttatus and luteus. 

In the Horticultural Society’s Garden, on Sept. 3. 1832, I was shown a 
very pleasing herbaceous species of Mimulus, the J. roseus of Douglas: 
it has rosy largish corollas, and foliage not very unlike that of MM. 
moschatus. 

CCXIII. Solanee. 


582. SOLA’/NDRA. 
46lla guttata D. Don spotted-flwd # (_) or 12 jn.jl Pa.Y Mexico 1830. C r.m Bot. reg. 1551 . 

A splendid species, “introduced from Mexico, by Mr. Tate, of the 
Sloane-street Nursery, from whom Mr. Lambert obtained the plant, which 
blossomed in the stove, at Boyton, in the early part of last summer. It 
appears to be fond of warmth and moisture, grows luxuriantly, is readily 
increased by cuttings, and promises to produce its blossoms more freely 
than the other species.” (D. Don, in Bot. Reg., Jan. 1833.) 

Nierembérgia linarizfolia of our Additional Supplement, is published in 
Sweet’s British Flower-Garden for December, by the name of N. gracilis, to 
which that in the Supplement must be altered. Mr. D. Don remarks the very 
close affinity of this genus to the genus Petunia, and also the close affinity 
of the genus Petunia to the genus Salpigldssis. This seems practically 
proved by the Salpiglossis integrifolia of the Botanical Magazine, 3113., 
being as palpably a Petunia as it can stare. It is a most ornamental 
species, with largish rosy crimson blossoms; and, in the Horticultural 
Society’s Garden, I learned, on Sept. 3. 1832, that a blossom or blossoms 
of it had been there just previously impregnated with the pollen of Petunia 
nyctaginiflora. Mr. D. Don proposes to call the Salpigléssis integrifolia of 
Hooker Petunia pheenicea. 

CCXIV. Acanthacee. 


1727. RUE’LLIA. 
oblongifdlia B. C. oblong-lvd. (Jor 3?s Ro Brazil 1830. C It. Bot. cab, 1889 


*© One of the last plants we received from our late friend, Robert 


108 HMoricultural and Botanical Notices, 


Barclay, Esq. It is a stove plant, of considerable beauty.” (Loddiges’s 
Bot. Cab., Jan, 1833.) 

CCXXI Labiite. Salvia angustifolia Cav., a beautiful species, native 
of New Spain and Mexico, is figured in the Botanical Register for January, 
t. 1554., and there thus spoken of : —“ It proves a very pretty perennial, 
srowing about 2 ft. high, and producing its deep pure blue flowers in July, 
August, and September. In the summer it thrives in the open air, forming a 
pleasing contrast with the red Brazilian and Mexican species commonly 
cultivated; but in the winter it is necessary to preserve it from frost in a 
green-house or well-protected pit. It is easily propagated by cuttings. In 
the size of its blossoms, and in its foliage, it much resembles 8. Grahami.” 


MonocoryLeponous PLANTs. 


CCXXXVIII. Amaryllideee. Mr. Haworth, in a somewhat recent 
number of Taylor’s Philosophical’ Magazine, has published some useful 
additions and amendments to his Monograph on Narcissinean Plants ; and 
this mention of the paper will enable the students of this group to refer to 
it, and use the information it imparts. Ina postscript at the close of that 
communication, Mr. Haworth remarks that Zephyranthes grandiflora (Bot. 
Reg., 902.) is the same plant as Habranthus robtstus of Herbert, in 
Sweet’s British Flower-Garden, Second Series. 

CCXXXIX. Iridee. 

142. TRIS. 
1267a crassifolia B.C.  thick-ivd y Alor 2 jlau Pa.B C.G.H. 1830? Ds.1 Bot. cab. 1861 

“ Tt has been lately introduced. It is nearly allied to the 7. mordoides : 

it flowers, and appears to increase, slowly.” (Bot. Cab., Nov.) 
128, GLADIOLUS. 
pudibtndus Swt. blush-jlwd % iAlor 3... Bh Eng.hyb... O Sw. fl.gar.2.s.176 

“ This is of hybrid offspring, we believe, between G. cardinalis and 
blandus, and was raised by the Hon. and Rey. William Herbert, to whom 
we are obliged for the specimen figured. It is an extremely showy plant, 
and therefore cannot fail to become a universal favourite with florists. It 
will doubtless require the same treatment as G. cardinilis, and, like it, be 
readily increased by offsets. (British Flower-Garden, Jan.) 

Gladiolus natalénsis (psittacinus of some), we are informed from the 
country, multiplies itself by offsets amazingly fast. 

CCXL. Orchidee § Vandee. 

2537. MAXILLA‘RIA. 
décolor Lindl. pale yellow .jlwd & [Alor 1 ja Pa.Y Jamaica 1830. D p.r.w Bot. reg. 1549. 

(For an enumeration of 17 other species, liviig in British collections, see Bot. Reg., 1549.) 

A new, distinct, and tender stove species, figured from the nursery of 
its introducer, Mr. Lee, Hammersmith. The plant is of the size of M. 
squalens; the scapes are many-flowered, and the flowers unspotted; the 
foliage is fine, and varies from 8 in. long and 3 in. broad, to 18 in. long and 
2in. broad. At the close of the description of this species, Professor 
Lindley gives a systematic enumeration of 38 species of this genus, 18 of 

_ which are already living in Britain. (Bot. Reg., Dec.) 
atropurptrea B,C. dark purple-flwd ¢ (7) or 1 jl.au D.P Brazil 1828. D p.r.w Bot. cab. 1877 

“ Tt flowered in July and August, 1832, remaining very long in perfec- 
tion. The beauty of this flower, and its singularity, both in form and 
colour, render it a most valuable addition to the number of the orchideous 
plants ; to which, if we unite its delicious fragrance, there will be few more 
desirable.” (Bot. Cab., Dec.) 

Warredna Lod. Warre’s y Wlior 2 au W.P.Y Brazil i829. D p.r.w Bot. cab. 1884 


A magnificent plant, received, with many other orchideous plants, by 
Messrs. Loddiges, from their friend, Frederick Warre, Esq., who collected 
it in Brazil. (Bot. Cad., Jan. 1833.) 


supplementary to Enc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 109 


*SACCOLA*BIUM Blume. (Saccus, abag, labium, a lip; labellum with a bag.) 
papilldsum Zznd/. pimpled & (A) or 1aus W.spot India 1828? D p.potsh Bot. reg. 1552 

“ The genus Saccolabium consists of a large number. of caulescent epi- 
phytal species inhabiting the continent and archipelago of India. It 
comprehends some of the most interesting and beautiful of the tribe, all of 
which are cultivated, without difficulty, by being suspended in pots filled 
with potsherds, intermixed with a little earth, from the back wall of a 
damp and hot stove.’ §. papilldsum has its flowers white, spotted with 
yellow and purple. It was introduced to the Horticultural Society’s Gar- 
den, by Dr. Wallich. (Bot. Reg., Jan. 1833.) 

CCXL. Orchidee § Epidéndree. 

2554. EPIDE’/NDRUM. [3209 
22743a Harrisonée Hook. Mrs. Harrison’s ¢ [A] or 1... Pa.G.Wsh Brazil 1830? D p.r.w Bot. mag, 

“ This is a fine and very distinct species, allied in size and general mode 
of growth to E. nutans, but very different in the form of the labellum. . . . 
Flowers large, of a pale, delicate green, whitish in the centre, arranged in 
a corymb-like raceme.” (Bot. Mag., Jan. 1833.) 

CCXLII. Marantdcez. 

3, CALA‘THEA. 
5la orbiculata B. C. round-lud y¥ lor 2? aus Y W.Indies? 1830. D 1.p Bot. cab. 1879 

“ We received this fine plant, in 1830, from the Leyden Garden: it is 
probably a native of the West Indies, and requires constant preservation 
in the stove.” (Bot. Cab., Dec.) We are not absolutely certain whether 
the specific name is meant to express the figure of the head of flowers, or 
that of the fine foliage, but we have concluded for the latter. 

CCXLVII. Asphodelee. 

1054. SCI’LLA. 
8816a? villdsa Desf. _ villous-Zud. ¥ Aor: ... Li Tripoli 1831. O p.l Bot. mag. 3211 

“ Specimens of this pretty little plant, which, no doubt, will bear culti- 
vation in a warm border in the open air, I received from my friend, Dr. 
Dickson, in 1831, who had gathered them in the neighbourhood of Tripoli. 
Among the specimens, some of the bulbs yet retained life: these were 
planted in the stove, at the Botanic Garden, Edinburgh, and fiowered 
there in November, 1832.” (Dr.Graham, in Bot. Mag., Jan. 1833.) 

Mr. Haworth has, in a late number of Taylor’s Philosophical Magazine, 
presented some useful information on species of the genus Scilla, of which 
the following is the amount: — S. plambea Bot. Reg., t. 1355., is the same 
as §S. hyacinthozdes Linn. and Soft. Mag., t. 1140. Scilla esculénta 
Bot. Mag.,t. 1574., must be very different from, and not even of the 
same genus as, the Camdssia esculénta Bot. Reg., t. 1486. 8. unifolia L., 
S. pumila Brot. (monophylla Link), and S. pumila Bot. Mag., t. 3023., 
are the same plant. Mr. Haworth distinguishes, by the relative length of 
their bracteas the S. peruviana of Linnzeus’s herbarium, and that figured 
in Bot. Mag., t. 749., into two species: to the latter he applies the name 
of prebracteata, retaining the name of peruviana for the plant of Linnzus. 

1078. MI’ LLEA Cay. 
+8978 biflora Cav. two-flowered %& Alor 12 au W Mexico 1826. D s.1 Bot. reg. 1555 

Already in Hort. Brit., p. 137., but less accurately than as here given. 
It is a most charming plant, with rushy leaves, and a rushy scape, sur- 
mounted by an umbel of from two to four, long-peduncled, erect. salver- 
shaped blossoms; the tube of each of which is more than half an inch long, 
and the border, of six segments, spreads flatly to the width of 2in. The 
segments, on their upper or inward side, are as white as snow, on their 
outside greenish, and, when once expanded, remain so through many days, 
not closing up at nights, in the manner of the ornithogalums. M. biflora 
is from the mountainous parts of Mexico; and, planted out in the Horti- 
cultural Society’s Garden, in a cold pit facing the south, from which the 
frost is just excluded in winter, it flowered beautifully in August last. The 


110 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


flowers were of a white so pure, that snow itself is not more colourless. 
Increasable by seeds, which hitherto have been but sparingly produced. 
(Bot. Reg., Jan. 1833.) {saw this plant blooming in the Horticultural 
Society’s Garden, on Sept. 3. or 4. 1832, and was there told that the 
flowers effuse a very fragrant odour in the evening. This is not stated in 
the description. The rushlike leaves drawn through the fingers have a 
roughness. 


®*PHA‘RIUM Herb. (Pharos, a veil; ovarium concealed in a membranous cup.) 
6. 1. Asphodeélez Sp. 1. — 
fistuldsum Herb. hollow-lud ¥ iAjor 1 s P.W Mexico 1831. O s.l.p. Bot. reg. 1546 


“ This curious and exceedingly pretty little bulb flowered in the green- 
house, at Spofforth, in September, having been imported from Mexico by 
Mr. Tate, of the Sloane-street Nursery, Chelsea. Its leaves closely 
resemble those of Melanthium janceum ; its slender scape is crowned by 
an umbel_of six pendulous flowers on peduncles 13in. long, which have 
spathaceous bractez at their base. The segments of the perianth, six in 
number, so spread as to form a cup-shaped flower: they are externally of 
a rosy purple colour, each with a green line down its centre; within they 
are white, edged with rosy purple, and have also a central line of this 
colour. This, to botanists, is a very interesting plant.” (Bot. Reg., Dec.) 

Phoérmium ténax is admirably figured on a double plate, and has eight 
pages devoted to the description of its structure and uses, in the Bot. Mag. 
for December, 1832, t. 3199. The specimen figured blossomed in June, 
1832, in the green-house of Joseph Boultbee, Esq., of Springfield, Knowle, 
near Birmingham, who describes it as, “ though not a brilliant, yet a very 
handsome and magnificent plant.” The flower-scape was “ 12 ft. in height, 
and bore thirteen branches, the lower ones of which sustained about twenty 
flowers ; the remaining branches bore successively fewer as they arose on 
the scape.’ The flowers, which all rise erect, so as to stand on the upper 
side of the branches, are, although of six leaflets, of a tubular form ; they 
are 14 in.in length; the three outer of the leaflets are of dull brownish 
orange colour; the inner a full yellow; capsules were freely produced. 
After a technical description of the plant in all its parts, its economical 
properties are expatiated on at much length, and those who would know 
the details must have recourse to the article. The amount of it appears 
to us to be, that the fibre of the leaves has been made into ropes, &c., 
which have, by using them in shipping, been proved stronger and more 
durable than those made of Baltic hemp; that, in consequence, it is quite 
desirable that marine cordage, &c., made of the leaves of Phérmium ténax, 
should receive increased adoption ; and that every circumstance tending to 
expedite this end, and also to promote an improved preparation of the 
fibre, and, as well, the manufacturing of it into the articles for which it is 
fittest, should be promoted by individuals, and even by government. Mr. 
Allan Cunningham judiciously suggests, that, under present circumstances, 
this can best be done by inducing the New Zealanders themselves to a 
more extensive preparation of the fibre than they now effect, by offering 
to them in exchange those objects of European manufacture of which 
they are most desirous: these are arms, apparently chiefly fire-arms and 
ammunition. ‘ Although most of the chiefs can now muster a large force 
armed with muskets, their avidity to add to their armoury has undergone 
no diminution; and, with the exception of blankets, red woollen shirts, 
and other warm clothing, tobacco, and sugar, scarcely any other article of 
English manufacture or merchandise has, as yet, any attraction for them. 
The quantity of fibre of this plant, exported in 1820 from New Zealand 
into Sydney for the English market, was 60 tons; in 1830 it was 841 tons, 
and in 1831, 1062 tons. Its present price in London may be stated at 
from 15/. to 25/.a ton; the price depending on its quality and the clean 
manner in which it is brought into the market.” (Bot. Mag., Dec.) 


supplementary to Enc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 111 


CCXLIX. Smildcee. 
1041. OPHIOPO*GON. 
Jdburan B. C. Jaburan ¥~ Alor 1jlau W Japan 1830. D s.p.l. Bot. cab. 1876 
A very interesting species, with foliage like that of O. spicdtus, but, m 
the specimen figured, the spike has fewer flowers than has the spike of 
O. spicatus, but the blossoms are longer, on longer pedicels, white, more 
tubular, and somewhat pendulous. Messrs. Loddiges received it in 1830 
from the Leyden Garden, named Slatera Jéburan. “ It will thrive yery 
well in the green-house, even perhaps out of doors.” (Bot. Cab., Dec.) 


LEAFLEsS FLOWERLESS PLANTS. 


CCLXXI. Féngi. 


3273. ZECV’DIUM. 
cancellatum Sow. latticed mammose } aut Br. On leaves and fruit of pear trees. Sow. 409, 410. 
Synonymes. Persoon. Myc. p. 205.n.2. Mougeot et Nestler, n. 184. Appendix to Midland 


Flora, vol. iii. part i. p. 295, 
For some of the characteristics and habits of this species, see our last 
Number, Vol. VIII. p. 738, 739. 


quadrifidum Dec. 4-cleft peridia, one-sixteenth. On the leaves of Anemdne coronaria. See 
Gard. Mag., vol. iii. p. 491. 
“ Cxdma quadrifidum Lenk in Willd. Sp. Pi., vi. part ii. p. 65.7 


SSeS 


Sir, The annexed is a list of plants cultivated in this garden, which I do 
not observe in your Hortus Britannicus, or Supplement. They may be of use 
for some of your publications. I have added what little information I know 
of them. Some of the names may, upon examination, turn out to be only 
synonymes. I believe we have a few more names when searched out. I 
am, Sir, yours, &c.— David Cameron. Botanic Garden, Edgbaston, Bir- 
nungham, Dec. 24. 1832. 


727. ALTERNANTHE’RA. 


filiformis Link. thread shaped ss eae Oi 00000 see lp 
nodiflora A. Br. knot-flowered se ons Co) Broce on lp 
1840. ALY’SSUM. 
procumbens trailing w ATE oi os Can a4! Jecata5 nee 
1341. ANDRO’MED4. : [Hook. ex. fl. 
salicifolia willow-lvd ® Jor 3 ju- Pk Mauritius 1830. € sp 
This must be a different species from No. 11,044 of Hort. Brit. 


1827. A’RABIS. 


flexudsa Ten. zigzag ¥ O edad oto Naples 1832. S co 
1390. ARENA*RIA. 
nemorosa sylvan & A pr su IW aA ceeds 1832. D co 
2313. ARTEMI’SIA. 
sacrorum Y Aun... ... Pho ee Ua ree 1832. D co 
1968. ANTHY’LLIS. 
Webbiina ‘Webb’s ¥y iAlpr 1 jl Pk Teneriffe 1829. D Ip 
1061. ASPHO’DELUS. ae 
microcarpus small-pedded ZA con 000 O00 Sardinia 1831. O lp 
2938. ASPI/DIUM. oa 
crinitum Boj. haired y (Wor 1 au Br Mauritius 1831. D pl 
licens Boj. - shining ¥y Wior 1 au Br Mauritius 1831. D pi 
2102. ASTRA’GALUS. ae 
lactifldrus Led. milk-fiowered XA ceo (ore ». Siberia 1832. D sl 
Schanginidnus Led. XA ono O80 30 Siberia 1832. D sl 
835. ATHAMA/NTA. hit 
stricta Led. upright XY Aun. «. ono Siberia 1831. D co 
1630. ATRAGEYNE, i 
macropétala Led. _large-petaled B OF “oo, oo -. Russia 1831. L 1 
2654. BEGO‘NTA. ‘ 
acerifolia Otto Maple-lvd » (jor 3... boo Brazil 1829. € Lp 
mondéptera Otto one-winged *% (Jor 2 au Ww Brazil 1829. D1.p 
2362. BE’/LLIOM. ae 
crassifolium Mor. — thick-lvd y¢ Alpr 2 su W Sardinia 1831. D co 
1668. BETO’NICA. D 


serétina late-flowering YA cog od ed) | | cont 1832. 


8 


112 


861. BUPLEU‘RUM. 


altaicum Led. 


3357. CALANDRI’NI4. 


speciosa Lehm. 

1416. CERA’STIUM. 
collinum 

1176. CHLO*RA. 
ser6tina 

2340. CINERA‘RIA. 
macrophflla 
auriculata 
thyrsbidea 
multifldra 
zussilaginéides 

2047. CORYDA*‘LIS. 
longifldra Led. 

1409. COTYLE‘DON. 
Lievéniz 

2215. CREPIS. 
pontica 
multicatilis 

1964. CY’TISUS. 
uralénsis Led. 

825. DAU’CUS. 
hispanicus 

1386. DIA’/NTHUS. 
spindsus Led. 
tadricus 


2353. DORO NICUM. 


macrophyllum 

1846. DRA*BA. 
stylaris 
grandiflora 

2468. ECHI'NOPS. 
bann&ticus 
2-albus 
dahutricus 

9332. ERI’GERON. 
elongatus 
ciliatus 

822. ERY’NGIUM. 
macrophyllum 

1867. ERY’/SIMUM. 
altaicum 

880. FE/RULA. 
ammoniaca 

348. GASLIUM. 
arenarium 

1963. GENI'STA. 
ephedréides 

1932. GERA*‘NIUM. 
mexicanum Humbd, 
affine 


1384. GYPSO’PHILA. 


Gmelinz 


1916. HERMA’NNIA. 


inflata Otto 
9911. HIERA*CIUM. 
Ledebourzz 
Jacquin 
3374. HORMI'NUM. 
virginicum Dec. 
981. HYPO’XIS. 
gracilis Lehm. 
142. T*RIS. 
Blonddwzi Led. 
9136. LA’/THYRUS. 
altcicus Led. 


2207. LEO/NTODON. 


ceratiphorus Led. 
glaucanthos Led. 
Teucanthos Led. 

1873. LEPY’DIUM. 
cordatum 
Eckloniz 

921, LI'NUM. 

palléscens Led. 


Altaic y Aun .. 
showy y¥ tAlel 3 
hill 2 A or 
late-flowering ()) Gb 3! 
large-lvd. y Aor ... 
eared y Aor 3 
thyrsus-formed x Aor .. 
many-flowered wv Alor 2 
Coltsfoot-like ¥ Alor 2 
long-flowered mA 

ye AJ cu 
Pontic y & un 
many-stemmed + un 
Uralian aw or 
Spanish x Oun il 
spiny XY Aor 2 
Taurian YyAo 1 
large-leaved ¥ Aor 2 
styled ¥y Opr 
large-flowered ¥ Apr 
Hungarian 
white 27 ©)? cen 
Dahurian x Aor 3 
lengthened ¥ Aun 1 
ciliated y Aw... 
large-leaved xX A or 
Altaic ¥ Oun 1 
ammoniac yYy¥Am 
sand ¥ Aun 1 
Ephedra-like We or 4 
Mexican AI? 1 
related YA cos 
Gmelin’s YA 1 
inflated “ _Jcu 3 
Ledebour’s X¥ Aun 1 
Jacquin’s y Aun... 
Virginian y Aw 2 
slender ¥ Wipr 2 
Blondow’s X& Aor ... 
Altaic YA 
horn-bearing md JN, WY) O55 


sky-blue. flowered K A un ... 


white-flowered A un... 
heart-shaped xy Au... 
Ecklon’s (0) Gh 
palish y¥y Aor 1 


jl 


au 


su 


au 
au 


au 


jl 


su 


jl 


su 


au 
au 
au 


ju 


re 


Pk 
Pk 


Wsh 


Li 


Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


weeeee 
eeeeem 
eoeeer 


seeeee 
ceeeee 


Teneriffe 
Teneriffe 


Siberia 


Russia 
Spain 


M. Lebanon 
Tauria 


eenese 


Hungary 
Dahuria 


eeseee 


Altai 

Persia ? 
Sardinia 
Sardinia 


Mexico 


serece 


N. America 
Mexico 
Altai 

Altai 
Russia 
Russia 


Russia 


Siberia 


is) tele} tek 


D co 
S Lp 
D co 
S lp 


D co 
D co 


D Lp 
Di. 


co 


—_ 


is} le} lelsle) le} ct ls) ls @ te tot Ist le) 


supplementary to Enc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 


622, LONI/CERA. 


Pallasi 
2004. MA/LVA. 
Mullérzz Roch, 
Moréniz 
vitifolia Cerv. 
144. MA/RICA. 
coeeléstis Lehn. 
1783. MY MULUS. 
andicola 


2101. OXY’/TROPIS. 


argyrophyllus 


882. PEUCE/DANUM. 


seselidides t 
datricum Led. 
2210. PI'CRIS. 
nepalénsis 
levis Led. 


1274. POINCIA‘NA. 


Gilliész? Wall 


1528. POTENTI’LLA. 


conférta 
| dealbata 


stolonifera Lehm. 
2375. PYRE‘THRUM. 


incanum Led. 


657. RHA’MNUS. 


cardiocarpus 


2411. RUDBE/CKTIA. 


aspérrima Horn 
1410. SEXDUM. 
altaicum 
844. SE’SELI. 
stricta Led. 
2023. SISDA. 
chlordphis Wail. 
1388. SILESNE. 
altaica Led. 
stylosa 
1884. SINA*‘PIS, 
dissécta Lug. 
2203. SO’/NCHUS. 
dentatus 
racemdsus 
929. STA’TICE. 
aurea 
2973. STEVIA. 
violacea Cerv. 


1648. TEU‘CRIUM. 


t) levigatum 


1633. THALI’'CTRUM. 


repens 
appendiculatum 
microcarpon 
exaltatum 

1681. THY‘MUS. 
spicatus 
cérsica 

1826. TURRI'TIS. 
Grahamz Lehm. 

1749. VERBE‘NA. 
littoralis Humb. 
radicans Hook. 


45. VERO’ NICA. 


repens Dec. 
mollis 
Michatxz 
nitens 

701. VIOLA. 
occulta Lehm. 


tricolor, 2-élegans Led.elegant 


Pallas’s te 
Muller’s ¥ oO m0 000 
Moren’s EA (Loe 8 gr 
Vine-leaved ¥ Olun 3 5 
blue-blossomed @iAlor 3 au 
Andes-inhabiting ¥ AJun 2 my 
silvery-leaved YA 
Seseli-like y Aun... 
Dahurian y Aun... 
Nepal Yy Auni jn 
smooth ¥ ©un... jl 
Gillies’s PEIN OP on no 
crowded YA 00. 60 
whitened YA oY 
shoot-bearing YA op 
hoary Y A or ... ov 
heart-podded ait ooo. oo 
roughest VA 
Altaic ¥ A 2 
straight xO? 
¥O?pr2 na 
Altaic Yy Apr 1 au 
stylose vy Apr. ¢ jl 
cut-leaved xO 
toothed y Aun... 
cluster.jflowered yy A un... 
golden a JA ©. 00. dt 
violaceous xy Aor 3 aut 
smoothed ¥ Al eoeiiee 
creeping VA sae 
appendicled VA <0 
smaii-podded YA 0 
tail YA 00 
spiked w jor 1 aut 
¥ Acu... su 
Graham’s T2-O)R oo coo 
shore ©un 3 my.jl 
rooting | @. LJ or su 
creeping @. A or 6p 
soft yA cco 000 
Michaux’s YA ono 
glossy NVA ton one 
hidden Ocu 3 jnijl 
¥ Oor 4 su 


Siberia 
006 Sardinia 
Li Chile 
W = Mexico 
Li Mexico 
Y Chile 
NG Nepal 
SY AS TE ee 
oc Mendoza 
Siberia 
0 Altai 
Siberia 
Ysh India 
Ysh_ Altai 
Ysh conceo 
oe Sardinia 
Gr pon000 
Vv Mexico 
0 Russia 
ae Russia 
ee Russia 
oo Russia 
P Pyrenees 
Li Corsica 
Cin S. America 
Li _ Chile 
W Europe 
Vy sooeen 
Vy Altai 


1829, 
1832. 


1832, 
1832. 
1832. 
1832. 


1832, 
1831. 


1832. 


1832. 
1832. 


1829. 
1832. 
1832. 
1832. 


1832. 
1832. 


S co 
C co 


Among the plants imported by Mr. Charlwood, through Mr. Alexander 
Gordon, and placed under the skill and care of Mr. Dennis, are, it is 


expected, some new species. 


them. 


Von. IX. us No. 42. I 


We wish some botanist would investigate 


114 Horticultural and Botanical Notices, 


Mr. Hitchen’s Collection of Succulent Plants at Norwich. — In Vol. VIII. 
p- 244. we noticed that this fine and unequalled collection was about to be 
disposed of, and there expressed our hope that it would be bought entire 
by some society, or some emulous lover of plants. Mr. Hitchen, we are 
pleased to learn, entertains the same feeling; and, in consequence, yet 
retains the collection unsold, although applications have been made to 
him, unsuccessfully, for parts of it. In a late communication, Mr. Hitchen 
thus expresses himself on this point: —“ After so many years have been 
occupied, and much money spent in collecting them, I am desirous of their 
going together where they may be seen. What an acquisition would they 
be, from their great novelty, at the Birmingham new botanic garden; or 
that of Primrose Hill [were it formed], where, I am sure, they would 
attract general attention.” Mr. Hitchen has furnished us with a list of 
his species of CActeze, except those of the genus Opintia; and we readily 
insert it, from a conviction that it will much interest our botanical readers. 
Although Mr. Hitchen does not enumerate the species he possesses of the 
genus Opuntia, he passingly notices that, amongst his species, are “ the 
curious micrdédasys, rubéscens, rdsea, virgata, tunicata, decipiens, exuviata, 
and cochenillifera, with the true cochineal insect alive upon it.” 


Melocacti and Echinocacti: ingens trix Saim., eburneus Salm., cre- 


Otto, gibbosa, Ottdnis, tenuispina, 
ténuis (Mammillaria), tephracan- 
tha, melocactiférmis, coccinea 
Gillies, Gilliés#, multiplex, parvi- 
spina, recarva, sulcata, latispina, 
polymorpha, solitaria, centetéria, 
magnimamma; oxygona Ofto, blos- 
soms a foot long; cornigera Dec., 
erinacea, depréssa: New, and not 
named, species from St. Kitt’s, 
from Buenos Ayres, from Rio 
Grande, two from Mexico, two 
from Brazil, and all the seeds of 
Cactez, brought by Mr. Cuming 
from South America, which have 
produced plants as large as nuts. 

Mammillaria atrata, angularis Ofto, 
ceespitosa Sa/m., dénsa Salm., sub- 
crocea Salm., stélla aurata Ofto, 
chrysantha Otto, coronaria, dis- 
color, flavéscens, fuscata Otto, 
fuscata var. Otto, geminispina, 
geminispina var. from Mexico, mag- 
nimamma, parvimamma, prolifera, 
stellaris, cylindrica, formosa, spi- 
nosa, tenticulata, Lehmannz, vivi- 
para, depréssa, eriacantha, ambi- 
gua Gillies, sessiliflora Murray, 
tubiflora Murray, criniformis Dec., 
subangularis Sa/m., simplex Salm., 
cornigera Dec., five from Mexico 
not named, var., spines hooked, 
small white-spined, six from vari- 
ous places not named. 

Céreus multangularis, scopa Link, 
senilis, strigosus, rosaceus Ofto, 
peruyianus, var. monstrosus, hys- 


nulatus Salm., albispinus Salm., 
strictus Willd., ndbilis, niger, chilo- 
énsis, Royéni Link., lanugmosus, 
candicans, repandus, subrepandus, 
lze‘tus, Déppei, Pitajaya, obtusus, 
serpentinus, flagelliformis var. 
minor, grandiflorus, gracilis, trip- 
teris, speciosissimus, coccineus 
triangularis var. minor, var. vari- 
egatus, prismaticus, triqueter, ex- 
ténsus, setaceus, squamuldsus, 
myosurus, aareus, alpinus, andi- 
colus, horizontalis, folidsus, pe- 
largu, attalicus, sanguisérbus, 
pentalophus Dec., réptans, lepto- 
phis, cineraéscens, hexangularis, 
viviparus, sp. from Mexico Otto, 
sp. from Buenos Ayres, and 
several others, whose names or 
habitat I know not. 


Epiphyllum speciésum, vars. rose- 


coloured, darker, light scarlet, 
dark scarlet, Ackermannz; Hitch- 
eni, scarlet flowers near 8 in. in 
diameter; alatum, ramulosum, 
Phyllanthus var. grandiflorus, 
marginatum, crispatum, trunca- 
tum, and several others from 
Mexican seeds which have not 
yet flowered. 


Hybrid Jenkinsoni, Vandésie, Cur- 


tisz, and others, Céreus, between 
grandifldrus and speciosissimus ; 
Céreus, between flagelliférmis and 
Epiphyllum specidsum ; and be- 
tween specidsum and Hitchen?. 


supplementary to Enc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 118 


Mr, Hitchen adds the following remark : — “ Many of the South Ame- 
rican Cacteze will live, and do well, in the temperature in which a Pelar- 
gonium will live, and some of them, I believe, would live out of doors, if 
protected from wet in winter. Ihave known some of them survive a 
sharp winter in a neglected green-house, when every plant in it has been 
killed except themselves and Céreus flagelliformis. This plant, wonderful 
to relate, will bear the extremes of heat and cold, if, in both cases, kept 
dry. The fruit of Cactus (Epiphyllum) speciosa is delicious when quite 
ripe, but care must be taken to remove the small clusters of spines upon 
the skin, or they get into the tongue, and are exceedingly troublesome. 
Every flower may be made to fruit, by impregnating the pistil with the 
pollen of the stamens in the same flower. — Oct. 20. 1832.” 


Plants in Flower, Nov. 16. 1832, m the open Ground, in the Gardens of ) 


Mrs. Marryat, Wimbledon House. 


Antirrhinum 6 var, 

A’ster 8 sp. 

Agératum celestinum and mexica- 
num. 

Achilléa tomentosa and serrata. 

Alonsoa linearis and urtiecifolia. 

Argemone ochroleuca and grandi- 
flora. 

Anacyclus valentinus. 

Alstreeméria psittacina. 

Agrostémma Flés Jovis. 

Asphdédelus fistulosus. 

Ammobium alatum. 

Althze‘a cannabina. 

Anagallis Monélli and grandiflora. 

A’rbutus U‘nedo and U“nedo rubra. 

Arnopogon Dalechampz. 

Boltonia asterdides and glastifolia. 

Calceolaria bicolor, angustifolia, pin- 
nata, thyrsiflora, rugosa, and pa- 
niculata. 

Campanula 3 sp. 

Chelone diffusa, glabra, and atro- 
purpurea. 

Centaurea moschata and Cyanus 
4 var. 

Carnation 1 var. 

Cerinthe aspera. 

Caléndula? sp. yellow. 

Callidpsis Atkinsonidna and tinc- 
toria. 

Cheiranthus Chetri and fruticulosus, 

Cobze‘a scandens. 

Corrigiola littoralis. 

Chrysanthemum carinatum and sin- 
énse 36 var. 

Cydonia japonica, 

Cuphea procimbens, 

Calampelis scabra. 

Collinsia grandiflora. 

Dianthus japonicus, supérbus, and 
chinénsis 4 var. flore pleno, 


Dracocéphalum canéscens. 

Delphinium Ajacis flore pléno, chei- 
lanthum, and grandiflorum. 

Eryngium Anderson:. 

Erodium multicadle. 

Erigeron glabéllus and Villarsii. 

Erica 4 kinds. 

Erythrolz‘na conspicua. 

Echinacea serétina. 

Fuchsia coccinea. 

Georginas 50 varieties, 

Geranium 4 kinds, 

Galéga biloba. 

Galinségea trilobata. 

Gaillardia aristata and bicolor. 

Hydrangea horténsis and guerci- 
folia. 

Heliotropium peruvianum. 

Hibiscus africanus. 

Hunnemanma fumariefolia. 

Zberis angustifolia, sempervirens, 
semp. variegata, and Tenoredna. 

Lupinus mutabilis and pulchéllus. 

Lamium maculatum. 

Linaria alpina, paniculata alba, spar- 
tea, and triornithéphora. 

Lobelia spléndens, heteromalla, Eri- 
nus, secunda, and bicolor. 5 

Lopézia racemosa. 

Lythrum alatum. 

Leptostélma maximum. 

Lophospérmum erubéscens. 

Mesembryanthemum 2 sp. 

Malva purpurata and miniata. 

Matthiola 6 var. of Russian stocks. 

Miadia élegans. 

Melampédium perfoliatum. 

Myosotis palistris. 

Meconépsis cambrica. 

Menziésia poliifolia. : 

Népeta cerilea and amethystina. 

Neja gracilis, 


12 


116 


Nicotiana undulata. 

O’xalis floribinda, carnésa, and ro- 
sacea. 

Gnothera speciosa, viminea, Lind- 
leydna, serdtina, Romanzovi, ma- 
crocarpa, and missouriénsis. 

Phl6x procimbens, autumnialis, and 
nivalis. 

Papaver nudicatle. 

Potentilla alba, formésa, and Hop- 

_ woodiana. 

Prunélla alba and grandiflora. 

Pyréthrum coronopifolium, Parthé- 
nium flore pléno, inodorum fléri- 


bus plénis, and Matricaria grandi- | 


flora. 

Phalangium Liliago. 

Physalis Alkekéngi. 

Reséda odorata. 

Rudbéckia falgida. 

Salpigléssis Barclayana. 

Scabidsa atropurpurea. 

Salvia Grahami, coccinea, falgens, 
colorata, angustifolia, and chame- 
dryGides. 

Stévie Eupatoria, and purpurea. 


Retrospective Criticism. 


Sedum red var. 

Senécio élegans and albus. 

Sdllya heterophylla. 

Tournefortia heliotropioides. 

Trachyméne ceerulea. 

Tradescantia virginica alba, v.aibida, 
and 3 other kinds. 

Tagétes licida and florida. 

Teucrium Chamee‘drys. 

Tropee‘olum peregrinum majus. 

Trachélium czeruleum. 

Tritoma Uvaria. 

Verbéna Aublétia, bonariénsis, pul- 
chélla, and chameedrifolia. 

Viola calcarata, odorata 4 var., tri- 
color 16 var. 

Ximenésia encelioides. 

Résa Champneydna, moschata flore 
pléno, and indica 20 var. 

Hieracium glutinosum. 

Lotus, sp. 

Vibarnum Tinus. 

Verbaseum rubiginosum, 


Total number of species and va- 
rieties, 333. 


The above list reminds us that, on the 7th of June, 1829, we visited the 
gardens at Wimbledon, with a view of giving some description of them in 


this Magazine. 


The account we prepared immediately on our return, as 


far as we could, without certain sketches, which we neglected to make on 
the spot ; and, going soon afterwards to the Continent, the subject escaped 
our memory. As the only apology which we can make, we shall probably 


give the article exactly as we prepared it at the time, in our next Number. 
— Cond, 


Art. V. Retrospective Criticism. 


ON the fraudulent Practices of Gardening Authors. — Sir, I observed 2 
communication from a correspondent of yours in this Magazine ( Vol. VIII. 
p- 289.), signed “ An Enemy to Deceit,” animadverting, with a considerable 
degree of asperity, against several fraudulent writers in the Horticultural 
Transactions and Gardener's Magazine, and more particularly against 
Mr. Alexander Stewart, late gardener at Valleyfield. It is a matter of no 
ordinary moment, surely, that could bring your worthy correspondent 
before the public: he seems to be very much afraid lest the uncharitable 
world should think him of ‘a cavilling disposition, or that he had any 
ostentatious motive to gratify by the appearance of his paper. Granting 
that he is free from either of these charges, still there is one thing that the 
es will be apt to charge him with, namely, ingratitude. He says, that 

e could give several instances where deceit had been practised ; but it 
would have looked more charitable and consistent in the eyes of the public, 
had he selected some other example than that of his former and much 
respected master, then deceased, and who could not defend his character 
from the vile and ungrateful aspersions thus cast upon it. Although I agree 
with your correspondent in some of his statements, and do not wish to 
advance an opinion on the merit or demerit of the theory in question, 


Retrospective Criticism. I Wil/ 


allow me to say, that it is thought by many gardeners and others, readers 
of your very useful miscellany here, that such a communication, to say the 
least of it, comes with very bad grace from him; for this reason, amongst 
others, that he, whose feelings he means to wound by his puny arrows, 
had, a considerable time previously to the date of his communication, been 
called upon to render in his account at the bar of Heaven. He, perhaps, 
may say he was ignorant of such an event having taken place, at the time 
he wrote; still, he had plenty of time to prevent its publication, had he 
been actuated by a generous feeling for the memory of the deceased; or 
had it been written and published previous to such an event, then he could 
not be charged with any other motive, but that of a desire to benefit 
society. With far different feelings will the public, and more particularly 
those acquainted with the parties, now view the conduct of him, who, 
there is no doubt, was indebted to Mr. Stewart for many valuable 
instructions, and who could thus attack his character after his death. I 
would advise your correspondent to remove the beam out of his own eye, 
before he again attempts to pull the mote out of those of his neighbours. 
He would then see that it is not attacking men’s opinions after they are 
dead, and, consequently, cannot defend themselves, that will gain for him 
the character of a sincere and honest horticultural writer. He has not 
favoured us with the date of Mr. Stewart’s return to the old system from 
necessity. I can assert, upon good authority, and without fear of contra- 
diction, that, for five years previous to Mr. Stewart’s death, he had as good 
pines as were to be seen in any place in Scotland; Envilles which weighed 
from 7 to 8 lbs.,and queens from 4 to 5lbs. Now, I question‘if ever your 
correspondent had pines of such a size. I can also assert, that there are 
few men in Mr. Stewart’s situation in life who could be more generally 
respected than he was, not only by the family in which he served for 
upwards of twenty years, and by his professicnal brethren, but also by the 
whole neighbourhood round where he lived. — A Constant Reader. Perth- 
shire, Nov. 27. 1832. 

The Results of Mr. Cottam’s Apparatus for heating by hot Water, at the 
Earl of Egremont’s, at Petworth. [Vol. VIUI. p. 148.] — Sir, As the system 
of heating by water has been for some time, and is still, occupying a con- 
siderable share of the attention of horticulturists, any information concerning 
its results under any given circumstances naturally attracts attention. In 
your Number for April last, your readers were favoured with a tabular 
statement of the results of an apparatus at the Earl of Egremont’s, at 
Petworth. On the first glance at this table, I experienced sensations at 
once of pleasure and regret: the former, that the results at Petworth are 
so very satisfactory; and the latter, that the like results are not expe- 
rienced here. The table would have been more perfect, had it given, in an 
additional column, the quantity of fuel consumed nightly : however, I am 
perfectly satisfied that much less is consumed than was formerly the case 
with flues. On looking a little more closely to the table, however, in 
connection with the preceding statement, I could not resist a doubt creep- 
ing over the mind as to its accuracy. Is is stated that upwards of 20° 
more heat could have been kept up, if necessary: now, on looking at the 
table, the reader will find, on every evening, from the 14th to the 19th of 
January inclusive, the temperature of the water in the boiler 212°: from 
whence, then, was the obtainable 20° to be derived? Assuredly not from 
the water, which was then at itsmaximum. Further, there appeared to me 
some degree of discrepancy in the figures, as given in the table, which I 
could not very well reconcile: for instance, Jan. 16., at ten P.M., we have, 
external temperature, 32°; internal ditto, 59°; water 212°; and on the fol- 
lowing morning at seven, external temperature, 32°; internal ditto, 64° ; 
water, 168°. It will here be remarked, that while the external temperature 

13 


118 Retrospective Criticism. 


continued stationary, the internal rose 5°, while the temperature of the 
water giving out the additional warmth itself Jost 44°. Again, Jan. 18., at tent 
p.M., external temperature, 21°; internal temperature, 76°; water, 212°. 
Here we have the external temperature 11° colder, the internal 17° hotter, 
than in the former instance, while the water was the same, viz., 212°; and 
from ten P.M. on the 18th, till seven a.m. on the 19th, the external 
air fell 7°, the internal 8°, and the water 52°. To follow figures no far- 
ther, I only beg to remark, that, Mr. Harrison [at Petworth] being allowed 
to be a very clever gardener, a sensible man, and an author (1 regret I 
have not the honour of his acquaintance), his table may lead some per- 
sons to entertain expectations as to the results of hot water that will 
certainly not be realised; a circumstance I should very much regret : 
and it is with the sole view of preventing mistakes, that I beg the attention 
of Mr. Harrison may again be turned to the subject. He is, without 
question, aware that 


“ Facts are chiels that winna ding, 
And downa be disputed.” 


If he would “ try again,” and in a similar table give us a second series of 


‘results, with the coals instead of the winds in column the sixth, I, for one, 
would be much obliged to him. The table you mention was communi- 
eated by Mr. Cottam. Now, as to him, I do not believe there is any 
man alive in England that understands the subject better than he does, 
as far as scientific principle is concerned. ts practical application is, perhaps, 
‘better understood by many humbler men; and, however flattering the 
results stated in Mr. Harrison’s table may be to Mr. Cottam’s apparatus, 
I feel convinced no one would more regret an erroneous impression being 
created concerning it than Mr. Cottam himself. I am, Sir, yours, &c. — 
J. Hislop. Ashtead Park, Dec. 10. 1832. 

The Button-Wood Tree of the Americans is the Plétanus occidentalis L.— 
I mention this, because, although Dr. Mease, in speaking (Vol. VIII. 
‘p. 153.) of immense American button trees, has identified them with 
the genus Platanus, yet the button-wood tree of English colleetions 
is the shrub Cephalanthus occidentalis: both this shrub and the Platani 
have, almost doubtless, obtained the name of button wood from their 
flowers being borne in globular heads, somewhat resembling buttons. — 
J.D. 

The Hoop Petticoat Narcissus (Corbularia serétina Haw.).— In Vol. VIII. 
p-724., you remark the comparative hardihood of this plant, which isa 
favourite one with me. I had a great many, when I lived in Warwickshire, 
growing in a border under the south front of the house, and I found them 
as hardy as crocuses. They were never taken up or covered in winter, 
and they flowered profusely every season. Many of them grew nearly 
under the drippings from the roof. They are very showy bulbs, and I 
-wonder they are not more common. — Selim. Jan. 1. 1833. 

We feel with Selim in admiration of this charming flower; but their 
rarity is caused by the nurserymen charging ls. 6d. for a bulb of this 
species; so that whoever would gratify his wish to plant a dozen or two 
bulbs of it in his borders must first have a sovereign or two to spare. We 
‘have known a lady, now dead, a lover of flowers, who, on seeing this plant 
‘in a garden she had visited, went straight to her seedsman, and ordered 
half a dozen of bulbs. When they were supplied, they were charged 9s.; at 
which the lady was. so surprised, that she begged to decline taking more 
than one of them. —J. D. 

Species of Plants in the smoky Atmosphere of London. — In addition to 
the kinds named, Vol. VIII. p. 244., lime tree and the Siberian lilac may be 
registered ; these are growing in a very confined garden behind the Poul- 


Retrospective Criticism. 119 


try, and opposite the upper end of Size Lane, Bucklersbury, along with the 
plane tree, the elder tree, and the Virginian creeper : these three are already 
mentioned, Vol. VIII. p. 244. — J. D. 

Difficulties in the Question of Hybridisement between Melons and Cucum- 
ders. (Vol. VIIL p. 611.) — Sir, | have a few observations to make on Mr. 
Oliver’s communication, in Vol. VIII. p. 611., and then the matter must 
remain in statu qwo until the course of next season shall have furnished the 
result of the cultivation of the seeds which I now await from him. In the 
mean time, I beg to invite whoever of your correspondents may have it in 
their power to adduce facts which might tend to the elucidation of the 
subject under discussion, to enregister them in your Magazine, in order 
that this question may no longer remain in its present indecisive state. 
Indeed, it is a circumstance which may well excite surprise, that it should 
be necessary to rake up instances to support what has for so long a period 
been considered an indisputable fact: and if the event prove, which I 
doubt not it will, that it has been thus long conceived in error, it is still 
more astonishing, relating, as it does, te fruit so generally cultivated, and 
continually under the eyes of so many preswmed observers. Fully aware 
that I combat a received opinion, and that, consequently, the majority of 
the facts which may be brought forward, having been viewed through such 
a medium, will, in the greater number of cases, throw their weight inte 
the opposite scale, I nevertheless feel certain of the result, provided ample 
details and minute accuracy are furnished, or the means of obtaining them 
by personal investigation afforded. Should they, however, prove unan- 
swerable, I shall then, at least, have ground (which hitherto I still consider 
wanting) for resuming my first opinion; though still deeming myself an 
unlucky wight, that chance should in other cases have effected what my 
careful experiments had, in every instance, failed to consummate. 

Mr. Oliver has assuredly fallen into error in concluding that the form of 
the fruit was immediately influenced by the pollen of the melon. It is 
strictly established and universally admitted, that the embryo of the seed 
is alone affected, occasioning the production of hybrids in the next succeed- 
ing generation; the pericarpium, which is a mere continuation and modi- 
fication of the branch, undergoing no change consequent on the impreg- 
nation of its oyula by pollen foreign to its own. There are divers ways of 
accounting for the variation of the fruit, any, or mayhap none, of which 
may be the true one. For instance, a seed ef a variety of a melon (which 
might, too, have been hybridised when in flower) in flavour such as is 
described, may by chance have been unwittingly sown with the others: 
such I, at least, possess; having the flaveur of cucumber strongly pro- 
nounced, when not exposed, during its growth, to the direct rays of the 
sun, which it is that effects the conversion of the acid, &c. into sugar, and 
gives to fruit its proper flavour. Again, it is certain that the fruit men- 
tioned as only used for mangoes is truly the Cicumis sativus. There are 
others of the same and analogous genera very nearly resembling, more 
especially the Cucumis flexudsus when fecundated by a smeoth variety of 
the melon, and which, as is often the case with Eastern and Persian melons 
unless cultivated with every disposable artificial aid, do not mature their 
seeds. Another cause of the barrenness may be, the late season at which 
the fruit was ripened. Again, the male blossoms may have been wholly, 
or nearly so, devoid of pollen; and, consequently, from these being grown, as 
is stated, in a two-light frame, containing no other variety, no fecundation 
was effected (not an absolute bar to the growth of the fruit). I could 
raise other objections ; but these will suffice to show the necessity of cau- 
tiously receiving an isolated and (I still maintain, as far as regards the 
question in hand) equivocal fact, smgly opposed to a mass of careful and 
varied experiments, as a sufficient proof for the establishment of theory 

1 4 


120 Retrospective Criticism. 


into axiom, for which, nevertheless, one well attested, and in all minutize 
without suspicion, would suffice. It is at least certain, that the cause of 
the hybridisation, in this instance, took place in the year previous to that to 
which Mr. Oliver refers it. 

I anxiously trust Mr. Oliver will not for an instant suppose that I have 
the slightest intention to impugn the veracity of his statement; but the 
distance of time may well preclude his perfect recollection of the circum- 
stances; the more, as he does not appear to have made any notes on the 
subject at the time. He, I doubt not, was, and is, fully persuaded of the 
particulars of the facts as he narrates them; and the event alone will prove 
whether correctly or not. 

It is dangerous to draw conclusive reasons from analogy between the 
animal and vegetable kingdoms, however interesting it may be to remark 
the shades of correspondence and dissimilitude existing in the laws by 
which both are respectively governed. For instance, analogy would lead us 
to suppose that, since (from all the light hitherto developed on the sub- 
ject) a double fraternity is abhorrent to the laws which govern the former, 
therefore the like would hold good in the latter: whereas experience 
teaches that such a conclusion would be utterly fallacious ; as a double or 
even triple paternity has been proved possible. I allude, of course, to a 
single seed and fostus; for we know that (as with the dog) the parent will 
bring forth young, which unquestionably establish them to be the offspring 
of different males. 

Mr. Oliver is also mistaken in supposing that mules are incapable of 
breeding. By coupling the female mule with the horse, or vice versa, foals 
have been obtained: an instance, in Scotland, was attested on oath by 
several witnesses; see also Buffon for others. Neither need he any longer 
doubt the possible fecundity of hybrids in the vegetable kingdom : the de- 
scendants of the Nicotiana T'abdcum and undulata, of the cabbage and turnip, 
of the cabbage and dark red radish, &c. &c., have produced seed. Indeed, in 
general, the hybrids are more vigorous, grow more readily from cuttings and 
layers, seed more abundantly, and hybridise anew with greater facility. Be- 
sides, Mr. Oliver’s own account corroborates this position. He himself tells 
us, that the seed taken from the fruits, the product of the first hybrid feeund- 
ation, yielded, when grown in a subsequent year, the specimens that were 
sent to the London Horticultural Saciety.* These, he says, failed to pro- 
duce seed: but this is the second generation of the hybrid; and this failure 
most probably arose from accidental causes, as I haye suggested above. — 
J.C. K. Levant Lodge, Oct. 26. 1832. 

Hypbridisement of the Melon by the Cucumber. (Vol. VIII. p. 611. 741.) 
—Sir, J. D., in representing (Vol. VIII. p. 741.) that M. Sageret’s 
experience (Vol. IV. p. 383.) agrees with Mr. Oliver’s on this subject 
(Vol. VIII. p. 611.), must have quite overlooked my remarks, in Vol. VI. 
p- 728., where I show that the opinions attributed in Vol. IV. p. 383. to 
M. Sageret are not his opinions, but a palpable misrepresentation of them, 
through a false translation; as may be seen by a reference to M. Sageret’s 
paper, in the Annales d@ Horticulture, and the two Memoires sur les Cucur- 
bitacées. —J.C. K, Dec. 1832. 

J. D. had, indeed, quite overlooked J. C. K.’s correction of the erro- 
neous translation; and his bringing forward at all the opinions erroneously 
ascribed to M. Sageret, in Vol. IV. p. 383., was purely from the accident 
of having met with them while turning over the leaves of the Magazine in 
search of some other subject. J. D., on seeing them, regretted that they 
had not been referred to in the otherwise complete citation of references 


* Why was it not taken notice of by some of the members composing 
that Society ?— J. C. K, 


Retrospective Criticism. 121 


to every mention of this subject, given Vol. VIII. p. 611. J. D. is much 
interested in hybrid plants, and for the following reason : — In botany, no 
question is more palpably undetermined than that of the distinctive limits 
of species and varieties. No evidence bears more intimately, nor more 
relevantly, on this question, than the issues of hybridisement; and, to the 
end of eventual inference, J. D. has carefully registered every instance, and 
the genealogy, where acquirable, of hybrid plants, which has come to his 
knowledge within the course of the last two years. See under “ Hybrid 
Plants,” and “ Hybridising,” in the Indexes to Vols.. VII. and VIII. of 
this Magazine. — J. D. 

On growing and curing Tobacco in Britain for Gardening Purposes. 
(Vol. VII. p. 42. 491.) — Sir, As a correspondent has (Vol. VIII. 
p- 491.) kindly informed me that what I had stated respecting the growth 
and management of tobacco ( Vol. VIII. p. 42.) is not quite correct ; and 
as I have had several years’ experience, as well as the testimony of several 
other people, to convince me that I am right, I do not feel inclined to yield 
to him until I have consulted you on the subject; and, as I wish nothing 
to appear in your work as the production of my pen, but that which will 
be of use to your readers, I shall, on conviction, most willingly acknowledge 
my error, and return my sincere thanks for the pains he has taken to set 
me right. I herewith send you a few leaves of this summer’s growth, and 
a small parcel of the same cut up ready for use, both which, I consider, 
would have been better if kept for twelve months before I had sent it. It 
may probably happen that myself, as well as those among whom I reside, 
know but very little about what we call home-grown tobacco; but as this 
is not likely to be the case with you; I hope you will inform me what is 
your opinion of the sample sent ; and if your correspondent, who differs 
trom me, should favour you with some of his, after seeing my present letter, 
perhaps you will be kind enough to say which is the best. I should be 
glad to give him an invitation; but, as I told you before, it does not suit 
me to let all the world know where I am, I think the plan I have adopted 
is the only one to learn which has the preference. Your correspondent 
appears to object to my method of fermenting tobacco after having dried 
it. Now, I consider this to be one of the most essential parts of the busi- 
ness. I recollect, some time ago, reading in your Magazine, that those 
who could make good hay might also make good tobacco, or words to that 
effect. Now, Sir, those who can make good hay know very well, that 
though it be managed in every respect well before it bs put into the rick, 
yet if it does not acquire a proper degree of heat there, it will not be good : 
just so [ think of tobacco. As respects another observation, which is, 
that it will still be inferior to that imported, I have only to say, that, if 
your correspondent means it is not so pleasant to smoke in the pipe, I 
quite agree with him; as I have sometimes had it so strong that it would 
make any man’s mouth sore to use it. Nevertheless, I also have it some- 
times so mild, that those who have tried it preferred it to that sold in the 
shops under the names of “ shag” and “ returns.’ But if he means that 
it is inferior for gardening purposes, I can only say, that I have upwards of 
sixty lights of glass, occupied by flowers, peach trees, and vines, and in 
which I use no other, unless I have not enough of my own growing. — 
EH. S. Oct. 23. 1832. 

As we know not when A. N. may send us a sample of the tobacco 
grown and cured by himself, we beg permission of E. 8. to say now what 
we have to say,on that he has sent us. It is admirably dried, of a dark- 
green tinged with brown, and plentifully supplies a pleasant odour, but 
which is less narcotic (as we suppose we may call it) than the tobacco of 
the shops. The portion sent cut was a full brown, and looked much like 
the shag tobacco, but the shreds were broader. The stock sent us has 


122 Queries and Answers. 


been given to a gentleman who both chews and smokes, He thus reports 
on it: —‘‘ In the mouth it is devoid of that pungent acid which in the 
common tobacco stimulates the tip of the tongue so gratefully; and in the 
pipe it is deficient in strength, so that an habitual smoker could not so 
well satiate himself with two or three pipes of this as with one of the 
tobacco of the shops.” However, from burning a little of it, we think it 
likely to prove satisfactorily effective in the destruction of insects or plants ; 
and this is the main point in question. —J. D. 

Burnt Tobacco stronger than unburnt.— Sir, A great saving might be 
made, in using tobacco-water for the destruction of insects, by first burning 
the tobacco; as I find, while enjoying my pipe in the evening, that the 
tobacco which is half-burnt has nearly double the strength of the other. 
The waste which burning on purpose would occasion might be obviated 
by having the tobacco baked on a cast-iron plate, or girdle (a Scottish 
utensil for cooking bannocks). This may be easily accounted for by the 
fact, that all liquors, when heated, are much stronger.— R. Bayswater, 
Jan. 17. 1833. 


Art. VI. Queries and Answers. 


REFUSE Putty as a Kind of Manure. — Has any correspondent ever tried, 
in any way, the refuse putty cut out of old lights, as a manure? Two 
years ago, I had a heap accidentally placed on a piece of turf, whence it was 
afterwards cleared off and burnt. Since that time, the grass in that place 
has required to be mown thrice to once in the other parts, and the grass 
is of a much better quality; and, notwithstanding the past summer has been 
so dry, it has continued to grow luxuriantly up to the present time. I 
intend to apply some putty of this kind to plants in pots, as I think it 
contains nourishment for plants in the absence of watering; and should 
this prove the case, it will certainly be of great use to plants thus con- 
ditioned. JI hope correspondents will try similar and other experiments, 
and communicate the results. — #. 8S. Oct. 23. 1832. 

Chemical Terms relating to Horticulture. (Vol. VIII. p. 735.) — Sir, In 
answer to Mr. Taylor of Aberdeenshire, I would ask, what are the 
chemical terms which do nof relate to horticulture ? There are none; for, 
wide as is the scope of chemistry now-a-days, there is no part of it that 
may not lie within the field of horticulture. To write the glossary, then, 
that your correspondent requires, would be to produce a chemical system ; 
and, without having read some systematic work on chemistry, the know- 
ledge merely of the popular meaning of a few terms will not be worth 
much. A knowledge of the learned tongues is not necessary to the full 
comprehension of chemical nomenclature; but I regret to say, that our 
English popular works on chemistry are defective in one most important 
point, viz., that of explaining the language which they speak. There are 
some differences between our nomenclature and that of the Continent ; but 
the best exposition of the principles upon which ours is founded is, I 
think, to be found in that first of chemical books, Berzelius’s Traité de 
Chimie, Paris edition, now publishing, and not yet, I believe, translated into 
English. For horticultural purposes, Henry’s System will be, in general, 
comprehensive enough; but he who aspires to a thorough knowledge of 
the science must study Berzelius. There are many books upon particular 
branches of chemistry, as applied to horticulture, farming, &c., such as 
Sir H. Davy’s Agricultural Chemistry, &c., which are worth the attention 
of those who enter more deeply into the matter. Iam, Sir, yours, &c.— 
Robert Mallet. 94: Capell Street, Dublin. 

The Glastonbury Thorn (Crate\gus Oxyacantha pre\cox).— Sir, The 
unsatisfactory, and even contradictory, statements which occur in various 


Queries and Answers. 123 


works both on systematic botany and on horticulture, respecting the 
Glastonbury thorn, induce me to trouble you with this communication. 
Not that I consider myself able to give you full and satisfactory information 
on the subject; but I hope, at least, to be enabled, from my long residence 
in the neighbourhood, to describe with accuracy, whatever is known with 
certainty at Glastonbury about the plant in question. The popish legend 
about the staff of Joseph of Arimathea I may be permitted to pass over in 
silence ; and, therefore, come at once to a thorn tree, now standing within 
the precincts of the ancient abbey of Glastonbury; for there can be no 
doubt that, from this tree and its forefathers (the present one not being 
of great age) all others of the kind have been propagated by budding or 
grafting. The most marked peculiarity in this tree, and in those descended 
from the same stock, is the time of flowering. It is now (Dec. 31.) in 
blossom, and I transmit you a specimen for examination. It will again 
blossom in the month of May, and from these latter flowers fruit will be 
produced. I am informed, but have not myself made the experiment, that 
plants grown from these haws turn out to be the common whitethorn. 
Perhaps the exact definition of those differences in vegetables which con- 
stitute species and varieties is a subject not fully agreed upon; but, so 
far as the matter is decided, I would ask, must the Glastonbury thorn be 
considered a distinct species, or only a variety of the common white- 
thorn? I remain, Sir, yours, &c.— Edward Callow. Butleigh, near 
Glastonbury, Dec. 31. 1832. 

We received the specimens mentioned, from our much esteemed cor- 
respondent, who, our readers will recollect, is the author of by far the best 
work on the cultivation of mushrooms that has ever appeared (see 
Gard. Mag., Vol. VIII. p. 213.), and found them beautifully in flower, 
covered with green leaves, and some of having bunches of ripe haws. After 
giving away sprigs to different friends, we sent the remainder to the Horti- 
cultural Society, to whom we have also given some of the haws, in order 
that it may be proved whether this is really a distinct species or not. In 
Hone’s Every-day Book (a most entertainmg work) will be found some 
of the nonsense which used to pass current respecting this tree. — Cond. 

Seedling Varieties of Delphinium grandiflorum var. chinénse Dec. — Of all 
the flowers which, at this season of the year [midsummer] ornament our 
gardens, perhaps the Delphinium grandiflorum stands unrivalled for the 
freedom with which it flowers, and the brilliancy of its colours. From 
this plant I have raised the following six varieties: — 1. Flower white, 
spotted with green; 2. and 3. Flower of two different shades of light blue 
spotted with green; 4. Flower of fine lilac, the back of the petals slightly 
spotted with green; 5. Flower of a very brilliant blue, spotted with pur- 
ple; 6. Flower blue, spotted with purple, a semidouble very showy variety, 
which is known by some as the D. chinénse, but very distinct from the one 
so called in Loddiges’s Botanical Cabinet, which appears to be the parent 
of the above varieties. I have been informed, by a respectable nursery= 
man, that he has “ raised some of all colours ;”” and, among them, “a fine 
yellow.” Has any one seen this last variety ?— Henry Turner. Botanic 
Garden, Bury, June 24, 1832. 

The sixth variety above is semidouble. The Rev. S: Alderson of 
Sicklesmere, near Bury St. Edmunds, in 1830, told me that he had flowered 
a double-flowered variety of D. grandiflorum; and I believe it was from 
an unblossomed seedling which he had purchased at the Bury Botanic 
Garden. These facts subserve the obvious inference that the plant very 
commonly grown in gardens, for the showiness of its spikes of double blue+ 
flowered blossoms, and called Delphinium grandiflorum flore pléno, can be 
no form or variation of the Delphinium grandiflorum above spoken of: it 
is unlike in stature, in foliage, in the size and form of its flowers, and 


124 Queries and Answers. 


in its general greater robustness. To which, then, of the species of bota- 
nists is this common double-flowered kind referable? I know not, and 
shall be right glad to learn. There is also a sub-variety of this double- 
flowered variety, and the sub-variety is of great merit. It emanated from 
Mr. Wood, nurseryman, Huntingdon, who observed it in a bed of the com- 
mon, distinguishing itself from all its neighbours. It has since kept con- 
stant to its characters : which are, a height nearly double that of the old 
variety, and branched laxer racemes: so that it is altogether a more 
showy, airy, graceful plant. —J. D. 

Capability in the Herbage of the Duckweeds (Lémne) to resist Rotting. — 
Sir, I sent you, some time back (Noy. 26. 1832), and without an explan- 
ation, a moss of dried Lémna, or Duckmeat (chiefly Lémna minor) : let 
me now say that it was for the purpose of showing you its power in 
resisting decay. The specimen in question J picked out of a border in the 
garden, shortly before I sent it you; and it had been wheeled into the 
garden along with dead leaves sufficiently rotted down to make a border 
for flowers, in November, 1830. The Lémna must have been gathered 
from the pond along with other aquatic plants (Potamogeton), at the very 
least, so long ago as the summer of 1828, and probably 1827. The 
potamogetons, and the dead leaves of the same autumn, were, as I have 
said, sufficiently decayed to make soil for horticultural purposes in Nov. 
1830, but the Lémna remained in the state you see it, and I can still find 
other specimens in the same border in as good a state. How comes this 
little minute plant to continue undecomposed so long after the leaves of 
all kinds of trees, and its brother aquatics, have been converted into soil ? 
The aquatics, &c., when gathered, were laid in a heap to rot.— W. T. 
Bree. Allesley Rectory, Jan. 10. 1833. 

What is the best Method of preserving Walnuts, so as to have the 
kernel as fresh as at the time of gathering, and yet in a good dry state, 
and without the shells becoming mouldy? — LE. S. Oct. 23. 1832. 

A trailing Species of Plum, near Montreal.— Sir, We have a singular 
kind of plum, near the Island of Montreal, found generally in an island 
exactly opposite the town of Montreal, called the Ile a Pierre (Stony 
Island), which is always under water in the spring. It is a creeping plum; 
and sometimes a single tree will cover a space of ground equal to § ft. 
square. It never raises itself from the ground; and when in blossom forms 
a very pretty sight. Attempts have been made to force it to grow upwards, 
but without success ; the branches growing over the props, and seeking the 
ground again. Do you know any thing of this species of plum ? — d. P. 
Hart. Montreal, Now. 5. 1832. 

Specimens of the plum dried when its flowers are in perfection, again 
when its leaves are so, and again when its fruit is ripe, so as to supply 
perfect branches, leaves, flowers, and fruit, would enable some botanist in 
England to answer our correspondent’s query satisfactorily. — J. D. 

Bark Beds. — Sir, 1 should be glad if some experienced gardener would 
give, through the medium of your Magazine, some good directions for 
managing bark beds; and, in hope of inducing some one more competent 
than myself, I shall give you what has resulted: from my own experience 
during several years. My bed is made in a brick pit, 9 ft. long, 5 ft. 6 in. 
broad, and 6 ft. deep; and contains more than two waggon loads of tanner’s 
bark. At first, I made the bed in March, of bark exposed two or three 
days to drying winds. This heated sufficiently for a time; but when I re- 
moved it, in September, I found a large portion of the tan quite dry and 
perished, by a whitish mould, retaining no heat whatever. In the centre, 
and towards the bottom, there was moisture, and about 75 degrees of heat. 
I then renewed the bed by two thirds of fresh tan, just as it came from the 
pits, without drying, and mixed it with another of the freshest old tan. In 


Queries and Answers. 125 


a few days this began to heat, and retained a good heat for six months. On 
this bed I preserved, during the winter, a number of pelargoniums and 
other green-house plants, giving them all the air I could by day, and cover- 
ing up at night ; and the plants, in general, looked better than those in my 
green-house. In the March following I renewed my bed again. On this 
I struck my georginas, raised two crops of melons, struck my pelargoniums 
and other plants, and, in September last, I renewed it again for winter use. 
My plan has been, to sift at least one third of the old tan, and mix the 
undecayed parts with the new tan, until the pit was three parts full, and 
then add fresh tan to complete it. Since I have adopted this method I 
have had very little of the grey mould, the bed has retained the heat better, 
and, on the whole, it has succeeded very well. Some of my neighbours 
have a well at the back of their beds, in which they put a quantity of dung, 
to obtain a great heat. They have their pits about 4 ft. wider than their 
frames, and place a paling partition in the pit at the back of their frames, 
and have two wooden doors to cover it. The part of the pit under the 
frame they fill with bark, and, when they want extra heat, they fill the 
other part with dung, and enclose it with the doors, to keep in the heat, 
and prevent any unsightly appearance. It may be proper to add, that 
none of the beds I have referred to are in a hot-house, but are placed in 
a convenient part of the flower-garden. I have had my beds trodden down 
in the making, to prevent so much sinking. I keep a stick inserted into 
the tan, through a hole in the brickwork, to ascertain the heat of the bed; 
and I have observed that it begins to heat, near the top, in four or five 
days: in three weeks itis fit for use; and it retains a good heat for six 
months, when I renew it.— Joseph T'yso. Wallingford, Nov. 1832. 

On obtaining improved Varieties of Corn by the Cross Impregnation of 
existing Kinds. —Sir, 1 would suggest the advantage which probably might 
be derived from sowing, in the same field, the seed not of one sort of 
wheat only, but the seed of various sorts; so that, when the wheats 
come to be in blossom, the pollen from each may be diffused among 
the intermixed wheats, and thus give rise to a new and better seed 
or grain. 

It is a well-known fact, that numberless varieties are produced among 
flowers, take the poppy for instance, by sowing in the same bed the seeds 
not of one kind of poppy only, but the seeds of different kinds. And 
Mr. Knight has shown what may be done by fertilising one sort of pea 
with the pollen of another. Yet, so far as I know, agriculturists have 
never yet availed themselves of these facts, in regard to the cultivation of 
that staff of life, wheat corn. 

It is obvious that, for the success of this experiment, all, or the greater 
part, of the different sorts of wheat should come into blossom at the same 
time. Iam, Sir, yours, &c.— Varvicensis. January, 1833. 

On this very subject Varvicensis will find a useful communication, 
written by a man possessing both practical and scientific knowledge, in 
No. XXV. of the British Farmer’s Magazine, published Nov. 1. 1832. 
The article is entitled “ On the Practicability of improving Corn by manual 
Impregnation.” 

Those who wish to adopt practically the suggestion of Varvicensis, 
may do it, even this season, very conveniently, by transplanting, as soon as 


the frosts of spring are past, plants of different kinds of wheat into each 
other’s immediate society. —J. D. 


126 


Covent Garden Market. 


Art. VII. 


From 


The Cabbage Tribe. 
Cabbages, per dozen: 
Red 3 


Plants, or Coleworts - 
Savoys - - - 
Brussels Sprouts, per 3 sieve 
German Greens, or Kale, 
per dozen - - 

Broccoli, per bunch : 
White 5 = Es 
Green k= 5 
Purple - = 


Tubers and Roots. 
per ton 
Potatoes - per ewt. 
per bushel 
Kidney, per bushel - 
Scotch, per bushel - 
Jerusalem Artichokes, per 
half sieve - - 
Turnips, White, per bunch 


Carrots, per bunch; 
Old 


Horn - - 
Parsneps, per dozen ie 
Red Beet, per dozen ~ 
Skirret, per bunch = 
Scorzonera, per bundle - 
Salsify, per bunch aie 
Horseradish, per bundle - 
Radishes, Red, per dozen 

hands (24 to 30 each) - 


The Spinach Tribe. 


F per sieve - 
Spinach ee half sieve - 


Sorrel, per half sieve - 


The Onion Tribe. 


Onions, old, per bushel - 
For pickling, per 3 sieve 
When green (Ciboules), 

per bunch 5 ¥ 

Leeks, per dozen bunches 

Garlic, per pound Bio 

Shallots, per pound - - 


Asparaginous Plants, 
Salads, &c. 


Asparagus, large, per hund. 
Middling = o 
Spruce 5 = 

Sea kale, per punnet ~ 

Lettuce, per score: 

Cos - - ~ 
Cabbage - - 

Endive, per score - 

Celery, per bundle (12 to 15) 

Small Salads, per punnet - 

Watercress, per.dozen small 
bunches - 5 a 

Burnet, per bunch - 


coo So oScSoo & 


oa osocoscoeso co ocooeou 


ooo 


oooo oo 


oo coocoeco oocoo 


S. 


ROMF CO Rr tr 


eS pH HEOnMOOCO CH RPNHRrWOS 


Ry 
oooo (tOH HE to 


oo COFCO FNWWOO 


DD ANRAOSCHORDR HO CORSO 


ao 


AaAnwow oOo 


WOAMO COCS 


os 


COM © SONS g 


Covent Garden Market. 


ooo So cocoo & 


o cocoocoooo oO COSCO 


ooo 


ocoo oo 


oo ocoecoeo ocooo 


to POOR RROCO Cr wNwwoKoS 


— 
ocoro wr Orr 


Coo CNHNHOF WOLAM 


SC SCCOOMNOCDMDR OH WRHROOS 


AQAA CSG COoOCcD 


San 


conomo oom 


wa CONCS Coco 


Pot and Sweet Herbs. 


Parsley, per half sieve - 
Tarragon,per dozen bunches 
Chervil, per punnet - 
Thyme, per dozen bunches 
Sage, per dozen bunches - 
Mint, dried, per dozen bun, 
Peppermint, per doz. bun. 
Marjoram, per dozen bunch. 
Savory, per dozen bunches 
Basil, per dozen bunches 
Rosemary, per doz. bunches 
Lavender, per dozen bunch, 
Tansy, per dozen bunches 


Stalks and Fruits for Tarts, 
Pickling, Sc. 
Rhubarb Stalks, forced, per 
bundle 5 o = 

Capsicums, per hundred - 


Edible Fungi and Fuci. 


Mushrooms, per pottle  - 

Morels, dried, per pound - 

Truffles, per pound : 
English - a 
Foreign ° o 6 


Fruits. 


Apples, Dessert, per bushel ; 
Nonpareils = - 
Ribston Pippins 
Reinette grise > = 
Golden Pippin” - - 
Baking, per bushel = 
American, per bushel - 
French, per bushel - 

Pears, Dessert, per 3 sieve: 
Chaumontelle - - 
Colmar - = 5 
St. Germains 2° = 
Passe-Colmar S S 

Cranberries, Swedish, per 
gallon - a c 

Walnuts, per bushel - 

Chestnuts, per peck : 
English rs - = 
French o ° = 

Filberts, English, per 100 Ibs. 

Pine-apples, per pound - 


Hot-house Grapes, late, 
per lb. 5 - a 
Oranges per dozen - 


per hundred 
Bitter Oranges = = 
per dozen - 
per hundred 
Shaddocks, per dozen - 
Sweet Almonds, per pound 
Brazil Nuts, per bushel - 
Barcelona Nuts, per peck - 
Spanish, per peck - 5 


‘ 
Lemons 


Sscooocooceoocsoo ONWOoGd CO COoOoO CoForFCOor 


tO COCO RAH HMO CONS 


— 


= = 
DCT RIPOOWOt wormr Crm ABM~IP WOrmor~mune 


Se 


" 
S 
=) 


cooocomoesooes& 


on 


oo oo 


cococoesooosoom 


oo 


oo co 


eooocoroocoooco ocoooo co CORFSo COCrFrFScreH 


co oF orto cocoeocomoonwes A 


tom MOMS CO ARNOHM NORSOHDS 


a Boe 
SCADWP Popes 


fo} 


coccococescoaco® 


co 


oo om 


eceocececoes oooco co cooo coooeeoo 


Observations. — The market continues to be steadily supplied with most 
kinds of vegetables, which are of excellent quality, at moderate prices. 
The continued openness of the season enables the growers to furnish the 
supply; but the consequence will be, a deficiency before the spring crops 
come to hand. The general depression which prevailed throughout the 
autumn, and early part of the winter, continues, and the few forced 
articles, such as sea kale, asparagus, rhubarb, and French beans, which 
have as yet been brought to market, have not realised high prices; and as 
the expense necessarily attending the production of such articles is very 
great, no doubt the growers suffer considerable loss; but, as the season is 
advancing in which those articles are more generally in demand, I trust 


Florticultural Society and Garden. 127 


we shall find more consumption, and, consequently, a remuneratine price 
for them; otherwise, I fear, the system of culture, which has advanced sa 
rapidly in the production of so many fine vegetables at this early period of 
the season, and by which the public have been generally enabled to indulee 
in these articles at a moderate charge, will fall into decay, and remain only 
in the hands of the rich private cultivator. The state of the horticultural 
interest, at the present time, is truly lamentable; and much individual loss 
must be felt before any improvement can be expected. Fruit, generally. 
has been of good quality ; very little foreign has been imported, our own 
supplies being good, prices consequently moderate. Onions are in great 
supply, the crop having been excellent, and the breadth in outline large; 
the prices very low, attended with great difficulty in effecting sales. 
Potatoes, which were heavy in the market at the period of the last report, 
in consequence of an abundant supply at the time, the growers appearing 
to be anxious to sell to realise capital, ‘are now becoming scarce, and thin 
m the market ; it is pretty generally supposed that the stock in the hands 
of the growers is getting short, and the dealers, not having many on hand, 
it is expected they will be in demand, and realise much better prices. — 
Cov. Garden, Jan. 23. 1833. 


Arr. VIII. Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Dec. 4, 1832. — Read. Notes upon Chinese Chrysanthemums, by Mr. 
Donald Munro. A paper on the Zéa Mays, or Indian corn, by the author 
of the Domestic Gardener's Manual. 

Lixhbited. Collection of apples, from Mr. Joseph Kirke (25 sorts) ; 
and Napoleon pear. Seedling chrysanthemums, from Mr. Isaac Wheeler, 
Beaumont Buildings, Oxford. Eldon pippins (seedlings), from I. J. Wil- 
mot, Esq., Coventry. Queen pine apple (weight 2lbs. 8 oz.), from Mr. 
George White, gardener to Sir Rowland Hill. Hybrid cereus, seedling, 
hybrid cineraria, from J. L. Snow, gardener to Sir Herbert Jenner, 
Chislehurst. Twenty-one vars. of chrysanthemums, from Messrs. Chand- 
ler. Argemoéne Barclaydna, Passiflora racemosa princeps; Chinese roses 
of the following kinds, yellow and blush, sweet-scented, rubra, single, 
dwarf Chinese, Barclay’s Chinese, pink cluster, multiflora, from Mrs. 
Marryatt. 

From the Garden of the Society. Flowers: Stenactis specidsa, Chimo- 
nanthus fragrans var. grandiflorus, chrysanthemums. — Fruit. Apples: 
Hormead pearmain, an excellent bearer; Yellow bellefleur; Bedfordshire 
foundling, a fine kitchen apple ; Belledge pippin; Court pendu plat, escapes 
the spring frosts, owing to its late blossoming ; Downton, Gray queening, 
Winter queening, Reinette grise, Baxter’s pearmain; Dutch Mignonne, a 
good bearer; Reinette du Canada. Pears: Glout morceau, continues to 
be a good bearer as a standard; Passe colmar, Bezi de Caissoy, Ne plus 
Meuris: some of these have ripened much earlier than usual ; Fondante 
du Bois, Dowler’s seedling, Beurré Beauchamps, Colmar. Golden pippin, 
from John Williams, Esq., grown on common crab stocks and on Siberian 
crab stocks. 

Jan. 15.— Read. Observations on the Quality of the Oak Timber pro- 
duced in Great Britain, by Wm. Atkinson, Esq. A Report on the,Growth 
of certain Varieties of Pears and Grapes, by J. W. Griffith, Esq. — 

Exhibited. Specimens bearing fresh flowers, and last year’s fruit, of the 
Glastonbury thorn, from Mr. Callow, Butleigh, near Glastonbury. Citrons 
grown at Hendon, from John Lane, Esq. Apples and French beans, 
from Mr. Joseph Haythorn, A seedling Primula prae‘nitens, from Mr, 
James Henderson. Camellias, from John Allnutt, Esq. Strelitza ovata, 


128 Obituary. 


Astrape:‘a Wallichi, from Mrs. Marryatt. Testudinaria elephantipes, 
camellias, and Banksia serrata, from Wm. Wells, Esq. 

From the Garden of the Society. Flowers: Chimondnthus fragrans and 
var. grandiflorus.— Fruit. Apples: Alfriston, Reinette du Canada, Court 
pendu plat, Bedfordshire foundling, Hormead pearmain, Rymer, Royal 
Reinette, Belledge pippin, Raboulink, Ross nonpareil, Baldwin, London 
pippin, Dutch mignonne, Parmentier, New rock pippin, Baxter’s pearmain, 
Redding’s nonpareil. Pears: Easter Beurré, Glout morgeau, Bezi de 
Caissoy, Bon Chrétien Turc, Ne plus Meuris. Downton nonpareil apple, 
from T. A. Knight, Esq. 

Note relating to the Grapes sent to the Meeting, Nov. 6. 1832.— Schloss 
Johannisberger, Rudesheimerberger, and Grafenberger : these appear to be 
the same. Raisin rouge de Schlossberg a Kreutznach is a white grape. 
Steinberger, and No. 1. unnamed, are the same. 


Art. 1X. Obituary. 


Diep, on September 9. 1832, at Bury St. Edmunds, Mure Hogg, aged 
58 years, florist and market-gardener in that town. Mr. Hogg’s father 
was_ a native of Scotland, and settled at Bury St. Edmunds, in the 
capacity of florist and market-gardener, and for many years rented the 
ground which, in 1820, a few years after his death, was converted into the 
botanic garden. In the‘house in this garden, his son, Mure Hogg, was 
born, and continued the occupancy of the house, garden, and business, 
until 1820, when the premises were let to N. S. Hodson, Esq., who formed 
them into a subscription botanic garden. Mr. Hogg then removed into a 
property of his own, with a garden attached; and here, and on additional 
ground hired, carried on his business as usual. His remains were carried 
to the grave by six young gardeners, and his pall supported by six old 
ones; and very many old and respectable neighbours and tradesmen 
followed. The deceased has left a widow, four sons, and a daughter. 
The widow, and two sons, who have almost reached manhood, will carry 
on the business. — H. J. 

Died, about the middle of 1832, at the house of his father, at Wands- 
worth, Surrey, J. Nicolles, for some years past flower-gardener to Roger 
Pettiward, Esq., of Great Finborough Hall, Suffolk. We are not informed 
of Mr. Nicolles’s age, but, from once seeing him, believe it was about 
30 years. Mr. Turner, of the botanic garden, Bury St. Edmunds, briefly 
notices (Vol. VII. p.498.) the garden under Mr. Nicolles’s management ; 
and in Vol. VIII. p. 160. is a communication from Mr. Nicolles himself ; 
and there is also another from him, in the Magazine of Natural History, 
Vol. IV. p. 449., consisting of a list of 46 species of birds, which he had . 
collected in the neighbourhood of Finborough Hall, and preserved ; and 
from the same communication we learn that Mr. Nicolles, at the time of 
making it, had also preserved some insects, and was then forming a 
hortus siccus. Mr. Turner, in a letter lying by us, dated April 15. 1832, 
thus speaks of Mr. Nicolles : —“ I have just finished a note of introduction 
to you for Mr. Nicolles. Poor fellow! he has completely killed himself 
by intense study by night and hard work by day. I pity him sincerely : 
he is every thing I wish for in a friend. He is clever, he is persevering, 
and in his little person carries a great deal of knowledge. The garden ane 
houses at Finborough do him great credit ; he took great delight in having 
men neat, and by almost incessant labour he accomplished his object.” as 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
APRIL, 1833. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Art.I. Notes and Reflections made during a Tour through Part 
of France and Germany, in the Autumn of the Year 1828. By 
the ConDUCTOR. 


(Continued from Vol. VII. p. 264.) 


Havine completed the general results of our late British 
tour, before we recur to its details, we shall complete our 
Continental notes, made in 1828 and 1829; and, as the time 
is now so long gone by, we shall greatly shorten them. 

In our last we were proceeding to examine the principal 
market-gardens, and had noticed those of Cadet de Mars, 
and the fig gardens at Argenteuil. We visited a great num- 
ber of others in every direction in the neighbourhood of 
Paris, but we cannot now take time to describe them. We 
were much gratified by the cherry gardens in the Vale of 
Montmorency, over which we were conducted by Baron 
Hamelin, an enthusiastic collector of exotic bulbs. The 
cherry trees are thinly scattered over the surface; sometimes 
in rows, and sometimes irregularly; and on the ground are 
cultivated vines, and between these potatoes and other vege- - 
tables. ‘The cultivation is careful, in point of stirring the soil 
and manuring it, but there is a want of regularity and neat- 
ness, which is probably owing to the entire absence of fences 
and of regular paths. Where deaths occur in the lines of 
vines, it does not appear that they are regularly filled up. 
An English artist admired the effect of this, as rendering the 
scenery most picturesque; of which, as a proof, he furnished 

Vou. IX.— No. 43. K 


130 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


us with a sketch, which we have had engraved. (fig. 20.) It 
may be very picturesque, but it is certainly not gardenesque. 


20 


The best pine-apples which we saw in the market-gardens 
of Paris were those grown in pits by M. Decoufflé, M. Gal- 
lois, and M. Marie. ‘The latter gardener takes the glass off 
his pits, night and day, during three months in summer ; the 
leaves of the plants assume a rusty reddish hue in conse- 
quence, and they grow slowly, but they are much better able 
to stand the winter. 

Mushrooms, in the neighbourhood of Paris, are cultivated 
deep under ground, in the caverns formed by the exhausted 
lime quarries. These quarries are not generally open to the 
day, as in Britain. They are worked more like coal-pits, 
and the stones are brought to the surface, up a cylindrical 
well or shaft, by means of windlasses, turned by large vertical 
-wooden wheels. (fig. 21.) When the quarry is exhausted, 


and the bottom is not springy, or liable to be filled with water, 
it is let to a mushroom-grower, who generally contrives to 


Park of Chantilly. 131 


purchase a wheel and windlass that has become too frail to 
wind up stones, but which serves him as a means by which he 
descends and ascends; throwing down his stable dung, earth, 
and spawn; and managing them below much in the same way 
asin England. Mushrooms are also grown in cellars in Paris, 
and in market-gardens on the surface of the ground. There 
appear to be two distinct varieties of this fungus: one grown 
in very firm soil, the colour of which is of a whitish yellow; 
and the other, grown in very loose black rich soil and on 
dung ridges, which is of a small size and delicate white 
colour. We found both sorts in great perfection in the 
market-garden of M. Gallois, at the Abbaye Saint Antoine. 

There are many points of practice in the horticulture of 
France which might be improved from the horticulture of 
other countries; and many in which other countries might 
derive improvement from France. In the forcing department, 
and in the culture of the pine-apple, the French have had 
little practice; and have consequently much to learn from the 
Dutch and the English, who have had a great deal. In the 
culture of salads during the winter, and in the growth of 
mushrooms throughout the year, the gardeners of Britain 
may learn a great deal from those of Paris. Fifty years ago, 
the pruning and training of fruit trees was better understood 
in France than in Great Britain; and we have nothing, even 
now, in the way of the culture of the vine in England, so 
simple and ingenious as the practice at Thomery. (See Vol. V. 
p- 287.) Perhaps, on the whole, considering the difficulties of 
climate to be overcome in France, the heat and drought in 
summer, and the great cold in winter, the French gardeners 
have more merit in producing or preserving the culinary vege- 
tables at such seasons, in the open air, than those of Britain. 

We shall now proceed to the villa gardens which we 
visited, and we shall take them in chronological rather than 
in geographical order. 

The Park of Chantilly is of great extent, but of little 
beauty. The surface is nearly flat, the soil light and sandy, 
and the whole naturally a scattered forest of beech, hornbeam, 
birch, poplar, and other secondary deciduous trees. The house 
is ahuge pile, which, however, has been diminished in size by 
the dilapidations of the Revolution. Near it is a large pond 
of artificial water, and a piece of ground laid out in the 
English manner Amongst the extraordinary things shown to 
strangers are the stables. ‘These, the traveller Duppa observes, 
“are magnificent, and in the highest degree unfit for their 
purpose. They are at least 40ft. high, and 600 ft. long, 


without accommodation for a bushel of corn, or a single truss 
; K 2 


132 Notes and Fieflections during a Tour : — 


of hay; in the centre is an octagonal room, 60 ft. in diameter, 
and 90 ft. in height. Here the prince used to dine once in 
the course of the hunting season, with a large party of his 
friends of the chase. ‘The old garden has not been restored, 
but here is a modern garden, laid out like an English gentle- 
man’s pleasure-ground.” This modern garden we found to 
be a low moist meadow, the grass nearly destroyed by the 
mole cricket; the buildings about the palace were in a most 
dilapidated state, and the immense platforms of sand, unshaded 
by a single tree, were any thing but country like: Every 
thing indicated an immense outlay on an ungrateful situation. 
Ree only source of relief is the natural earls ; though these, 
growing on a flat surface, and the soil being uniformly sand, 
contain little variety of either trees or plants. Taking the 
demesne of Chantilly altogether, it is fit only for growing 
copse, or for the Flanders husbandry, viz. turnips, wheat, 
and clover. 

Ermenonville in October, 1828.— The property was then to 
be sold, and was let in the mean time to the Prince de Condé, 
who made no other use of it than as a preserve for game. 
The tower of the fair Gabrielle was roofless, and going fast 
to decay ; some of the other garden structures were wanting ; 
all were more or less dilapidated, with the exception of 
Rousseau’s tomb in the Island of Poplars, and what is called 
“* Ta maison du Philosophe” ( figs. 22. and 23.), which is still 


22 Ay 


WAN NN CN, o \\ \\\\ 


NM\ ees AWN 
Vo ies Ae 


ce ira oN i 
. r\\y N An\ 


("| 
Ft 


‘hy SNL 


s ‘¢, a Le 
K AN 

NRO Gog 
Dae & 


pointed out to strangers as a place where Rousseau used to 
spend whole days, reposing on its heath benches (jg. 23. a a), 
having a fire of logs in the rude fireplace (4), and supplying 
himself with water from an adjoining spring. Bread and 


Ermenonvuille, Bagatelle. 133 


wine, we were told, the benevolent proprietor placed every 
morning in the cellar below, which Rousseau entered by a 
trap-door in the floor (c). The house in the village in which 
Rousseau lived, and the room in which he died, used to be 
shown to strangers: the room, we were told (in 1828), was 
become the sleeping-room of one of the Prince de Condé’s 
gamekeepers. Ermenonville, having little or no natural beauty, 
and being now neglected by art, has ceased to be interesting 
otherwise than by historical associations. 

The Grounds of Bagatelle, as laid out by Mr. Blaikie, are 
maintained in nearly their original state, and they form one 
of the most agreeable and successful imitations of the English 
manner in the neighbourhood of Paris. ‘Through the kind- 
ness of M. la Pie, the geographer, at Paris, we obtained a 
correct plan (fg. 24.), which will give the reader a very good 
idea of the disposition of the principal masses. ‘The only 
view beyond the boundary is obtained from the house and the 
other buildings ; and this view is chiefly the Seine, and, beyond 
it, the hill Mount Valerian. ‘The most un-English parts of 
Bagatelle are the house and offices: and, indeed, it may be 
observed, generally, that, with the exception of some recent 
buildings erected by the very first French architects, such as 
Durand and Percier, a French house is almost as easily dis- 
tinguished from an English house, as a French garden is from 
an English one. In general, the faults of Bagatelle are those 
of most other English parks or gardens in France; viz. too 
much bustle and display, too many walks, too few trees and 
shrubs, and too many statues and seats, for the extent of sur- 
face. The result of all this is a want of shade, quiet, and 


repose. ‘There is scarcely such a thing as a solitary, umbra- 
K 3 


134 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


geous garden walk in all France. The following are the details 
of the plan of Bagatelle : — 


7, Main entrance from the Bois de Boulogne. 9, Rockwork, whence issues the water that 

2, Outer entrance to the courts of the chateau. supplies the lake. 

$, Avant cour (second court). 10, Ice-house, over which is La Tour des Pa- 

4, Court of honour. ladins (the tower of the Paladins). 

5, Main entrance to the chateau. 11, Porter’s lodge and garden. 

6, Bowling-green, surrounded by geometric 12, Hot-houses, green-houses, and gardens. 
garden. 13, Picturesque scenery in the park, which ex- 

7, Isle of the Tomb. tends southwards to some distance. 

8, Elevated rock, on which is placed La Mai- 


son de Philosophe (philosopher’s hut). 


The Park of St. Quen ( fig.25.) was laid out by Gabriel 
Thouin for Madame de Cayla, soon after the restoration of 
Louis XVIII. The surface is flat; and very little is gained 
from the distant prospect ; but, by great diversity of disposition 
in the trees and walks, a continual change of verdant scenery 
is presented to the spectator. The fault, to an English taste, 
is, that the wood is not in sufficiently large masses, and that 
there are too many walks. The result of these defects is a 
want of grandeur and repose. ‘There are, however, two 
points, in the laying out of this garden, well deserving the 
attention of British landscape-gardeners: the first is, that the 
situation and turnings of every walk are accounted for, by 
trees or shrubbery, in the axils, so to speak, of their inter- 
sections ; and the second, that great depth of interior view is 
given from all the principal points, by studiously avoiding to 
imtercept the views by trees. In short, nothing in this plan 
of the Park of St. Quen seems as if it could be otherwise 
than as it is; and this is always a good test. M.G. Thouin, 
though he has never been in England, and therefore cannot 
have a clear idea of what an English park is, yet lays out 


Park of St. Quen, Villeneuve l Etang. 135 


25 


a IN 


St. soma St. 


10 0 °° }§©50 


such parks, in France, on strictly scientific principles. ‘The 
entrance lodge and iron gates to the Park of St. Quen ( fie. 26.) 
have a very elegant appearance, and a glimpse of the house 
is obtained from them, though it is at quite the other extremity 
of the park: a proof of how much the depth of perspective 
has been studied. 

Villeneuve 1’ Etang, near Marne, was occupied before the 
Restoration by Marshal Soult, who is said to have been very 
much attached to it, and to have derived much pleasure from 
planting and altering the grounds. The park may contain 


upwards of 300 acres, which occupy two sides of a valley 
K 4 y 


136 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


86 


110 BNA 


PRCT 
10 ete) CLEP IT REE TE 


PEER 170 
AHH RRR 


A) Weer UCR TT CTR 


MUTT wa 


UPR RET UTTAR A) 
SF TUVALA 


gee Cave LAF RHE 
TULL CEERI 
mv Tu 
(gu Tra TuyMueMaRTATAN A 
1] ny 
a eT srt 
(F 
= 


Boe, Soe mS cS 
= ge: a es rs ae as es ee an ee 
SS St Sg a Ssh = 


through which runs a small stream. ‘The house, which is 
small, but with very extensive offices, is placed on the margin 
of the park, and in the lowest part of the grounds. A worse 
situation could hardly have been fixed upon in the whole 300 
acres. ‘The planting in the park has been done in what is 
considered the English style; but the formal clumps, which are 
conspicuous in the plan (fg. 27.), show that the designer 


has considered that style any thing but an imitation of nature. 
The small stream of water (a) is made to spread out into a 
pond (6), and it is crossed by numerous bridges, under which 
are cascades (ccc). ‘The only parts of the grounds which 
are tolerable, and which create in the mind any allusion to 
natural scenery, are, a flat bottom, varied by spruce firs (d) ; 


Gardens and Grounds of M. Doublat. 137 


a somewhat irregular piece of ground (e), said to have been 
laid out under the direction of Soult himself. This last scene 
displays some apparently natural rocks and stones on the 
margin of the stream, and contains some groups of American 
shrubs. The Duchess d’Augouléme, having coveted this 
place, obtained it with some difficulty from Soult; and she 
has the merit of having added to the house (2) a large con- 
servatory and an aviary (f), and also a dairy establishment 
(g) and a poultry yard (4). Notwithstanding the duchess’s 
desire for the place, we were (in 1828) informed that she 
passed only one night at it, during the whole time it was in 
her possession. ‘The kitchen-garden here (£) is on an elevated 
platform, and, when we saw it, the walks were beautifully 
bordered with Zbéris sempervirens, which makes a large but 
very handsome edging. In some of the pits were a few finely 
grown pine-apples. Taken altogether, Villeneuve Il’ Ktange 
affords an example of a situation highly favourable for the 
natural style, but mangled by a description of art without 
either the expression of purpose or the expression of style. 
The Gardens and Pleasure-grounds of M. Doublat, at Epi- 
nal, have the reputation of being the finest specimen of 
English gardening in France. Their merits are great, though 
they depend more on the natural beauties of the situation, and 
on the surrounding scenery, than on the exercise of any style 
of art. M. Doublat’s grounds consist of a rocky hill (jig. 28. a), 
rising abruptly from the town of Epinal to the height of 
300 ft. or 400 ft., and stretching away to the east in the form 
of a narrow ridge, of a mile in length, gradually declining 
till it terminates in the vale of the Moselle. ‘This hill and its 
continuous ridge bear a remarkable resemblance to those on 
which Edinburgh Castle and the Old Town are built. The 
town of [pinal (66) embraces the hill on three sides; the 
Moselle passes through the town, and forms the northern 
boundary to the ridge; and a public road, accompanied by a 
small tributary stream, constitutes the western boundary. 
M. Doublat, the proprietor, a banker in Epinal, and the 
receiver-general for the department des Vosges, assisted by 
M. Grillot and his son, architects of Nancy and Epinal, began 
to plant and improve this demesne about 1793, and have con- 
tinued doing so ever since. ‘The great merit of the place, so 
far as art is concerned, is, that the planting is done in groups 
and masses, in which one species always prevails in one place ; 
and in which the trees are disposed in a free natural-looking 
manner; and not in heavy, lumpish, formal shapes, as in 
some of M. Sckell’s works in the English garden at Munich. 
As leading Features of the Grounds at Epinal, we may direct 


138 


Yu "GZ 


LMM rAOOD ROG : 


WYSE 


Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


28 


A 
Oe 


"Wes 


wea 


an 
y Trent 
i NOR 


> 3e>Py09 0 2 


° 


OOD D00e92 \, 


w 
BOnod 


Wi 
Soo 


Ny == 


Va = 
a 
ARE 


24868 > 


$0 2883 qo 


DOoOOOoos0Zy.*, 


oc 


~ il) 


O00T 


IZ 000F 


attention to the mansion 
(c); to the ruins of the 
castle of Epinal, on the © 
highest part of the rock 
(d); to a large piece of 
water, formed adjoining 
what was formerly the 
moat of the castle, and 
including the moat (e) 
(this. water, brought by 
pipes from a spring on a 
mountain some miles dis- 
tant, can be rendered avail- 
able to M. Doublat’s house, 
and to the whole of the 
town of Epinal, at a mo- 
ment’s notice, in case of 
fire); to a succession of 
terraced walls planted with 
fruit trees and vines (/) ; 
to the terraced kitchen-gar- 
den (g); to the dairy, cow- 
houses and poultry yard, 
placed in the ravine, for- 
merly a dry ditch for the 
defence of the castle (/) ; 
and finally, to the general 
variety in the direction of 
the walks and roads. In 
one part of the grounds, 
it will be observed that 
they are intersected by a 
public road (z); but the 
grand drive, which diplays 
all the main features of 
the place (4), passes over 
this road on a bridge (). 
On tracing this drive in 
the figure, it will be found 
very ingeniously contrived 
for going and_ returning 


~ over the same _ bridges ; 


and also for combining the 
greatest length with the 
greatest variety of line. 
The most striking Feature, 
however, of the grounds at 


Villa of M. Berthoud. 139 


Epinal, is the rock on which is scattered the remains of the 
ancient castle. The castle of Epinal was a place of great 
strength, till it underwent a siege, in the time of Louis XIV., 
when it was taken, blown up, and has since remained in ruins. 
Some of these masses are very large and entire, while others 
are shattered by perpendicular rents; and, leaning to one 
side, remain monuments of the tremendous force of gun- 
powder. It appears that the cannon balls made use of in the 
siege were partly formed of granite; as numbers of these, as 
well as of iron balls, are constantly dug up by the gardeners. 
The great inequality of the surface, and the various forms of 
the masses of rock round these ruins, with the distant amphi- 
theatre of wooded hills and mountains on three sides, and the 
valley of the Moselle on the east, seen from them, constitute 
by far the finest part of the scenery. In our notes made on 
the spot in October, 1828, we find noticed two stupendous 
piers of the drawbridge, one rent from top to bottom, a height 
of nearly 100ft., and leaning towards the other; immense 
masses of rock, beautifully varied with creepers, and: more 
especially with the Ampeldépsis federacea; birch trees, larch, 
firs, and Scotch pines, protruding from crevices of the ruin 
and of the rock; a cleft or ravine with steep rocky sides, 
planted with larches, and having a Swiss air ; a tunnel through 
the rock, of several yards in length, forming part of the road, 
and displaying a very striking view of the Moselle and its 
vale, from one end, and of one of the highest of the moun- 
tains of the Vosges on the other; and the imitation of natural 
woods, by planting very young trees among the older ones, 
always of the same sort in one place, so as very successfully 
to imitate the spruce fir forests of Prussia, the pine and birch 
forests of Sweden, and the larch and silver fir scenery of the 
Alps. ‘The grand and savage character of the mountain 
scenery, on the one hand, as contrasted with the buildings 
and bustle of the town, and the vale of the Moselle, with its 
meadows and vineyards, on the other, add greatly to the 
charm of M. Doublat’s grounds in our eyes; though, if the 
demesne belonged to an aristocratic Briton, the town would be 
deemed a nuisance, and the great object of all his efforts would 
be to plant it out from the view. So far is M. Doublat from 
entertaining any opinion of this kind, that his grounds are 
thrown open every Sunday to the whole town of Epinal; and 
at all times they are open to strangers. 

The Villa, at Chantilly, of the late M. Berthoud, architect to 
the government in the time of the consulship, contains upwards 
of 100 acres, and has been laid out in the natural manner 
with extraordinary care. The surface consists of a hill or 


140 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


bank, in great part covered with natural wood ; and ef a hol- 
low, with a small stream of water. ‘The house is placed at 
one end of this hollow, close to Chantilly; and there is one 
short approach from the town, and another long one through 
the bank of natural wood, from a cross country road. ‘This 
may be described as a double approach, there being one road 
for entering and advancing to the house, and another for 
returning. Both are admirably adapted for showing all the 
beauties of the place to the best advantage: a circumstance 
exceedingly favourable for the stranger, who, in order to see 
the place completely, requires to do nothing more than drive 
up to the house and drive back again. After passing through 
the gates at the lodge, and advancing about 100 yards, the 
stranger meets two roads, beside one of which is a post, with 
the words chemin du hameau. On returning from the house, 
at about the same, or perhaps rather a greater distance from 
it, the road divides in a similar manner; and close to one 
branch of it is a post, exhibiting the words, chemin du départ. 

The House of M. Berthoud is in the Italian style; small, 
but richly ornamented. ‘The principal view from it is along 
a valley, in which the eye catches, in succession, glimpses of 
water and buildings among trees and grass. In walking 
through this valley, the buildings, seats, urns, statues, and 
rockwork are found to be very numerous. Near the house is 
a rustic grotto, over which is a highly finished and richly 
furnished bed-room. A concealed door in the grotto leads to 
a small kitchen and other conveniences ; so that this detached 
building seems to have been intended either to serve as an 
addition to the house, or as a lodging for a friend. Not far 
from this grotto, and also near the house, is a larger build- 
ing, with the external character of a chapel. On entering, we 
found that the ground floor assumes this character, that the 
sunk story is a wine-cellar, and the room over a billiard-room. 
Hard by is an ice-house, disguised so as to appear a mass of 
rock, but partially covered with trees and bushes. A con- 
spicucus object from the house is an obelisk, covered with 
hieroglyphics, and dedicated aux arts. 'The Chinese build- 
ings, ornamental cottages, rustic buildings, and fanciful cattle- 
sheds and sheepcots, are too numerous to be recollected. The 
stables, the Chinese buildings, and also part of the exterior 
of the house, are painted in fresco externally; but, to an eye 
not accustomed to this style of ornament, this conveys the 
idea of superficial construction and temporary duration. The 
only building about the place which we could thoroughly 
approve of, was the entrance lodge. The usual defects of 
too great a width of gravel or sand in front of the house, and 


Villa of Fromont. 141 


of rounding off too much of the angles of junction in the 
walks and roads, was less obvious at this place than in most 
others which we have seen in the neighbourhood of Paris ; for 
example, Madame de Cayla’s (see fg. 25.). When we saw this 
villa in 1828, the whole was in a state of dilapidation ; but we 
have no doubt that, when it was in complete repair, it dis- 
played much natural beauty, though with a greater mixture 
of architectural objects, and with less repose of effect, than 
harmonises with the British taste in landscape-gardening. 
The Villa of Fromont, on the Seine—M. Soulange Bodin 
combines, at Fromont, an elegant villa residence with an 
exotic nursery, and an institution for young horticulturists. 
M. Soulange Bodin, like M. Vilmorin, is at once a skilful 
cultivator, a marchand grenetier (seedsman), a scholar, and an 
accomplished gentleman. As connected with the army, he 
has been all over Europe; and having been long (to use the 
Prince de Ligne’s phrase) under the influence of the jardino- 
manie, wherever he went, the gardens were the main objects 
of his attention. At one time he had the principal manage- 
ment of the gardens of the Empress Joséphine at Malmaison. 
On M. Bodin’s retirement to Fromont, in 1814, he com- 
menced laying it out in the English manner, and so as to 
combine the picturesque scenery of the park with the profit- 
able culture of the nursery. The grounds exceed a hundred 
acres of a surface gently varied, and sloping to the Seine. 
They are surrounded by a walk or drive, which displays 
varied views of the interior, the main feature of which is the 
chateau; and of the Seine, with some rising grounds, beyond 
the boundary. In various spaces among the groups of trees 
are formed beds of peat earth, in which seedlings of Ame- 
rican shrubs are raised; the more rare kinds being propa- 
gated by artificial methods. In the walled garden near the 
house are numerous pits and frames, in which the more 
popular exotics, such as the orange, Caméllza, Azalea indica, 
and numerous other green-house and hot-house plants, are 
increased by hundreds. _In effecting this, one of the principal 
modes employed is herbaceous grafting, or grafting on the 
young wood. ‘The plants thus raised are sent to all countries. 
In the larger green-houses and hot-houses there is a collection 
of fine specimens, intended principally for ornament. The 
object of the institution for the instruction of young gardeners 
is, to supply French country gentlemen with young men well 
acquainted with both the practice and the theory of their art 
in all its branches. For this purpose there are professors, a 
library, a museum of implements and models, and a monthly 
journal, entitled Annales Hlorticoles de Fromont. ‘There is not 


142 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


a more striking example, in all France, of the gentleman and 
the man of science being united with the tradesman than in 
M. Soulange Bodin; nora villa in which more industry and 
activity goes hand in hand with picturesque beauty. ‘There 
is nothing of the kind that we know of in England; nor can 
there be in the present state of things. It is, perhaps, one 
of the finest moral features in France, that most gentlemen 
are either manufacturers, tradesmen, or farmers; and that 
nearly all of the persons practising these professions are, in 
education and manners, gentlemen. 

The Villa of Admiral Tchitchagoff, at Scéaux (jig. 29.) 
contains 15 or 20 acres, on a nearly flat surface; but it has 
been laid out with extraordinary care by the proprietor, 
aided by the constant advice of Mr. Blaikie. The object is, 
to compress as many as possible of those beauties of which 
a pleasure-ground is susceptible into a small space. The 
references to the plan will show how this has been done. 


29 


A 


i 
WV 


Za 
eZ 
A 


\iS 


\ 


RW 


Villa of Admiral Tchitchagoff: 


41, The house. 

9, Stabling, cow-house, coach-house, dog- 

house, &c. 

8, Poultry-yard, place for rabbits, Guinea pigs, 

&c., and dunghill, with hot-bed frames. 

4, Porter’s lodge, and dairy. 

5, Pump and reservoir, from which leathern 
pipes conduct the water all over the grounds. 
in order to water the lawns, &c., in dry 
weather. 

6, Gardener’s house and office, pigeon-house, 

seed-room, &c. 

Granaries, wash-house, and toolehouse. 

Pinery, and hot-houses for forcing culinary 

vegetables. 9, Fig-house. 

Great basin surrounded by a flower-garden 

for florists’ flowers. 

Collections of biennials. 

Foreign esculent vegetables. 

Orchards for vines and peach trees. 

Frames for forcing asparagus. 

15, Aquarium. 16, Rockwork. 

17, Bee-hives. 18, Rosary. 

19, Flower-borders, and a horloge de flore (a 
clock of flowers). 

90, Orangery. 21, Green-house. 

92, Garden of variegated plants. 

23, American garden. 

24, Pelouse du nord (north lawn). 

25, Magnolias. 

26, Mount Lebanon, a collection of cedars, 

pines, and evergreens. 

27, Conservatory of orange trees planted in the 

ground, with a roof removable in summer, 

28, Cabinet de verdure (a bower). 

29, Mount Echo. (Here there is an echo.) 

30, Borders for duplicates ; botanic grounds, 


143 


Herbaceous plants, and nursery. 

Druidical ruin, containing bee-hives. 

Vines trained a la Fontainebleau. 

Vines trained in the Italian mannet. 

Embroidered parterre, laurels, experimental 

garden, and nursery. - 

, Banc des paresseux (seat for idlers). 

Banc téte a tete (seat for two). 

Banc des solitaires (hermits’ seat). 

Banc des philosophes (philosophers? seat). 

Banc des pleureurs (mourners’ seat). 

Bane Américain (American seat). 

, Bane de la Vérité (seat dedicated to Truth), 

Banc des amateurs (amateurs’ seat). ; 

Baskets of Salvia spléndens. 

45 and 46, Groups of magnolias and other trees, 
surrounded by flowers. 

47 and 48, Reading and breakfasting pavilions. 

49, Banc bati (alcove of masonry). 

50, Grotto. 

51, Bane des amis 

ship). 

Choice fruit trees and esculent vegetables, 

Salle de jeux (billiard-room, &c.). 

» Salle de danse (ball-room). 

Pelouse de l’ouest (west lawn). 

Shrubs and forest trees; pomegranate trees 

in the open ground. 

7, Grande porte (principal gate). 

Porte de charretier (gate for carts, &c.). 

Petite porte, surnommée de la vache (small 

gate, called the cow-gate). 

Porte du nord (north gate). 

Porte de l’ouest (west gate). 

2, Carrefour des six ifs (square of six yew 

trees). 

A slip of outside ground, planted with.osier. 


(seat dedicated to Friend- 


The Mass in fig. 29., in front of the House, is thus arranged 


(jig. 30.) : — 


a, Pines. 
g, Tuberoses. 


6, Cedars. 


c, Junipers, &c. 
h, Pelargoniums. 


k, Jonquils, Narcissi, crocuses, snowdrops, aconites, &c. 
q, Laurels, &c. 


n, Fritillarias. 0, Tulips. __p, Irises. 


d. Malvacee, J, Roses, 


e, Geraniums. 
z, Ligistrum, Metrosidéros, and Banksias. 


1, Cassia. m, Camellias. 


The Park of Neuilly is in a dull flat situation on the Seine. 


There is a small spot near the house, which bears consider- 
able resemblance to an English pleasure-ground; but the 
rest of the place is very deficient in picturesque interest. 
There is, however, an arboretum, containing a considerable 
collection of rare trees and shrubs; and some hot-houses, 
into which the industry of the very skilful gardener has col- 
lected a number of stove plants. 

The Park of Marshal Massena, at Ruelle, formerly belonged 
to the Duc de Richelieu, and is said to remain pretty much 
in the state in which it was when occupied by that minister. 


144: Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


It presents a tolerably complete specimen of the ancient style, 
but is much neglected. 

The Park of M. Morel Vindé is delightfully situated on the 
side of a hill; and the chateau looks across a narrow park- 
like valley, to a well-wooded hill, on which is seen a part of 
the aqueduct of Marly. Looking from the house to the left, 
the winding of the valley conceals its termination; looking to 
the right, the valley opens into a level country richly culti- 
vated, with hills and the chateau of St. Germain in the 
extreme distance. With every desirable feature for the exer- 
cise of the natural style, this place was laid out, many years 
ago, in the geometric manner; and the natural lines of an 
undulating surface, to a considerable extent from the house, 
are changed into levels and regular slopes, or counteracted 
by avenues, hedges, and straight canals. We do not know a 
finer subject to work on in the English manner, in the neigh- 
bourhood of Paris. M. Morel Vindé is an excellent agri- 
culturist, and the author of by far the best work on rural 
architecture which has appeared in France. 

The Chiteau de Neuviller ( fig. 31.) is situated on a com- 


31 


Pont, nT : 
VAs yrs ul FTA SL 
; a en AAS za To Mi 


du 
(0 
i 
——— eT 
ng 


manding situation in the valley of the Moselle, between Nancy 
and Roville, and affords a specimen of a large French cha- 
teau of the time of Louis XIV. This chateau stands on an 
eminence, which protrudes boldly from the range of hills 
which skirt the north side of the valley. ‘The summit of this 
eminence has been levelled, so as to form a platform of nearly 
two acres. About half an acre is occupied with the chateau 
and its different courts and offices, the remainder is laid out 
as a geometrical garden. ‘The entrance is through a short 


Garden of the Elysée Bourbon. 145 


avenue from behind; the carriage of the visiter passes under 
an archway to the court of honour, and the stranger, entering 
the saloon, is struck with astonishment and delight at the mag- 
nificence of the prospect, which comprises the fertile valley 
of the Moselle, with its numerous villages, farm-houses, corn- 
fields, and vineyards, bounded by undulating hills covered 
with wood. ‘The remains of terraced gardens, orchards, 
avenues, canals, and of all the component parts of a highly 
enriched geometric garden, still exist, though they have been 
utterly neglected for upwards of thirty years, and though the 
house was pillaged during the first excesses of the Revolution. 
At the base and on the sides of the knoll on which the cha- 
teau stands are the cottages which compose the village of 
Neuviller, and the public road; and we were told that it was 
the unjust acts perpetrated by the proprietor, in endeavouring 
to remove this village and road to a distance, which cost him 
his chateau, and ultimately his demesne. On looking over the 
numerous apartments, of spacious dimensions, on the ground 
floor, we found that a number of them had never been finished ; 
and that very few of the bed-rooms were what in England 
would be considered habitable. . 

As Specimens of Town Gardens in Paris, we shall give the 
plan of the Elysée Bourbon, that of M. Boursault, and that 
of Bel Respiro. 

The Garden of the Elysée Bourbon (fig. 32.) belongs to a 
palace of that name, and is situated in the Rue du Faubourg 
St. Honoré. It was laid out by the architect Bélanger, and 
contains a long glade of lawn (a); a straight covered walk (0) ; 
open winding walks (c); shady winding walks (d); a piece of 
water with an island (e); and a handsome terrace in front of 
the palace (f). As far as design is concerned, the ground. 
is made the most of; but it was planted at a time when little 
regard was had, and as little opportunity afforded, for the in- 
troduction of American shrubs. We found this garden in 
excellent order. 

The Garden of M. Boursault is situated in the Rue Blanche ; 
and, for its size and situation, is one of the richest, not only 
in France, but in Europe. It contains less than two acres, 
and is surrounded on every side by high houses. The winter 
garden comprises a range of architectural conservatories, or- 
namented with columns of marble in the Corinthian order ; 
another range of upright glass at an angle of nineteen de- 
grees, as in Holland, and with opaque roofs containing rooms 
used for various garden purposes. At a time when gardening 
pursuits in France were confined to few, and when rare plants 
were only to be procured at an enormous expense, M. Bour- 

Vou. 1X, — No. 43, L 


Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


146 


Garden of M. Boursault. 147 


sault collected the most costly exotics to be found in Europe, 
notwithstanding all intercourse with Britain was prohibited. 
There are indeed here many fine specimens of plants, which, 
though they have been for some years familiar to British gar- 
dening, were, before the peace of 1815, not to be found in 
France beyond the precincts of M. Boursault’s garden. We 
saw this garden in 1815, again in 1819, and again in 1828 
and 1829; and always found it in the very highest order and 
keeping. Through the kindness of the proprietor, we have 


been favoured with the ground plan of this garden, and we 


IANA \" 
RNS 


employed an artist, in 1828, to take the two views jigs. 33. 
and 34. The first of these views shows a large plant of 
Araucaria excélsa, then thirty feet high; and the second, the 


style of the largest of the hot-houses. The ground plan 


(fig. 35.) was made for us by M. David, M. Boursault’s very 
L 2 


148 


“vy 


Wy 
, a <ce_e 
Y Y Y 


Aon Se AALS 


SSIS SSS 


S<=ssss 


SSSA 
H 
i 


g 
Z 
WA 
AL I 
g 
Z\ 4 ¥4 
G 
G 
| 
q 
4 
Z| yy 
Zile 
Y 
oy 
A aM 
Bow 
Zi 
Z 
Z 


Z 

A 
WAG 
a 
‘ig 
i 7 
HA 
| 4 
Bl 


Se ep SSS SEATS SCO 


SN 


SSeS 


Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


Br y ZY ‘ 


Rear ey 


ee a Se 
20 


ro roro 


OSs 


oat 
9. 


oO 
Oe 
2000 


Garden of M. Boursault. 149 


intelligent gardener, who also supplied us with a list of the 
principal trees. ‘The following are the details of the plan: — 


1, Principal court of the mansion. 

2, Court of the stables and coach-houses. 3, Antechamber. 

4, Corridor. 5, Waiting-room. 6, Small drawingroom. 

7, Large drawingroom. 8, Vestibule for entering from the garden. 

9, Bath-room. 10, Gallery of paintings, statues, and antiques. 

11, Open garden. The walks are of gravel, and the turf is kept short by 
mowing, and carefully watered during summer. 

12, 12, Masses of Magnolia grandiflora, conspicua, and purpurea. Kalmia 
latifolia and other species, Azalea several species. Pzednia Moiitan, 
edulis, and other species. 

13, Avenue chiefly of Magnolia grandiflora, but with all the other species 
pened, and numerous rhododendrons, azaleas, and other American 
plants. s 

14, 14, 14, Vase of white marble on the summit of a mount; on the side 
of which, surrounded by choice shrubs, is a group of georginas: near 
this is a handsome caryatic figure in marble. 

15, Robinia tortudsa, ’sculus carnea, and variegated hollies. 

16, Place for camellias during the summer season. 

17, 17, Semicircular marble bench, ascended by steps, and containing a 
handsome marble antique vase in the centre. Rhododendrons, andro- 
medas, tulip trees, Calycanthus, Chimonanthus, Cydonia japénica, and 
various American shrubs. 

18, 18, Exotics from the stoves and green-houses during summer; compre- 
hending the coffee tree, Myrtus Piménta, cmnamon, &c. 

19, 19, Place for New Holland plants during the summer. 

20, 20, and 21, Magnolia grandiflora as standards, with a collection of all 
the rhododendrons which can be purchased in Europe as under- 
growths; with select species of Magnolia, Azalea, and other American 
plants, and Acacia Julibrissin, Gordonia pubéscens, &c. 

22, Araucaria excélsa, 30ft. high, protected by a cover of boards during 
winter, and surrounded by a walk bordered with orange trees in 
summer. The Araucaria ( fig. 33.) is a very handsome tree, and the 
most conspicuous exotic in the garden. 

23, Cedar of Lebanon, Photinia serrulata, Nandina doméstica, Eriobétrya 
japonica, Pinus palustris, A’cer nipalénsis (olivier de Bohéme), Flz- 
agnus argéntea. 

24, Bed of ranunculus. 25, Edwardsta macrophylla, 20 ft. high. 

26, Pomegranates, and dwarf georginas. 

27, Magnolias of various species, and of a large size; Virgilia lutea, rhodo- 
dendrons, and various species and varieties of holly. Cunninghamia 
lanceolata, Salisbtria adiantifolia, Pzeonia (Moztan, and many herba- 
ceous sorts of peony. Halésia diptera. 

28, Hill or mount of cedars, pines, firs, rhododendrons, hollies, and various 
evergreens. 

29, Asclépias tuberésa. 30, Bed of select tulips. 

31, Purple beech, silver lime tree, and gold-blotched alaternus. 32, Aviary. 

33, Kolreutéria paniculata, Pyrus spectabilis, and Bétula péndula. Among 
these trees are beds filled with choice hyacinths in spring, and pelar- 
goniums and other showy green-house plants in summer. 

34, 34, Collection of standard roses, remarkably complete. 

35, Handsome cedars of Lebanon. ‘ 

36, Partie fantastique, devoted to the culture of bulbous-rooted florists 
flowers. 

37 and 38, Pomegranates and georginas. 

L 3 


150 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


39, Choice collection of herbaceous plants. 

40, Pond supplied from the canal d’Ourcq, by a perpetual fountain issuing 
through rockwork. Water lilies and other aquatics thrive here, and 
flower magnificently. 

41, Iron bridge, with handsome palisades. 

42, Conservatory, from which the roof is removed in summer, containing 
camellias of all sorts, E’pacris, Rhododéndron arboreum yar. Album 
and var. ferrugineum, Azalea indica and indica pheenicea; the cinna- 
mon tree, which has here ripened its seeds, and young plants have 
stood the winter with very little protection. Magnolia fuscata anone- 
folia, Wistaria Consequana, and a number of other conservatory plants. 

43, Stove containing Garcinia Mangostdna, Latdnia borbénica and rubra, 
a number of palms, the only Ddémmara in France in 1828, Telfairia 
americana, Combrétum purpureum [Poivrea coccinea] and comdsum 
[Poivrea comosa] ; Thunbérgva, five species ; J/Zyrtus, several species, 
and numerous bulbs. 

44, Green-house. 

45, Stove containing Caryota mitis, C. trens, Cycas circinalis, Cérypha 
umbraculifera, E’late sylvéstris, Pothos macrophylla, Aréca montana, 
Urania speciosa (Ravenala madagascariensis ), Theophrasta americana, 
T. integrifolia, Strelitzia regine, 8S. lanceolata, S. jancea, S. augusta, 
Dillénia speciosa, Ficus ferruginea, F. cerasiformis, EF. speciosa, and 
Myrtus Piménta var. longifolia, Aristolochia labiosa. 

46, Green-house, with a row of marble statues on pedestals. Among 
the plants are, Beaufortia decussata, Wistaria Consequana, Liparia 
sphe’rica, Mimosa setacea, suaveolens, semperflorens, &c. Didsma 

-suaveéolens rubra, Witsénia corymbosa minor, E’pacris ptingens alba, 
E. rosea, Bursaria spinosa, Erythrina herbacea, E. Crista galli, Dory- 
anthes excélsa, Pimeléa rosea, Olea excélsa, Yucca filamentésa varie- 
gata, Fuchsia gracilis, Daphne Dauphinz {hybrida], Acacia lunata, 
Caméllia axillaris, Rhododendron arboreum ferrugineum. 

47, Terrace walk, supported by a parapet wall, so as to be on a level with 
the glass. 

48, Basin of water, with a statue of bronze in the centre, and surrounded 
by rockwork. 

49, Lines of trees on turf. 50, Turf shaded by trees. 

51, A row of trees on turf. 

52 and 53, Back way for the gardeners and garden materials. 

54, Basin of water, the bottom and_sides of lead. 

55, 55, 55, Stoves for pines, and for propagation (cuisine du jardinier, as 
M. Boursault calls it). 

56, 56, 56, Houses and sheds for tools, garden materials, and in-door labours. 

57, Stair leading towards the terrace. 58, Petite retraite. 

59, Basin of water. 60, Pedestals for statues. 61, Main entrance. 

62, Billiard-room. 63, Staircase to a small garden library. 

64, Coach-houses and stables. 65, Lodgings for the gardeners. 

66, Private entrance from the kitchen-court to the garden. 


The House of Bel Respiro (fig. 36.) is situated close to the 
Barriére de |’Etoile, which forms the entrance to the grand 
avenue of the Champs Elysées, and is one of the handsomest 
of its kind in Paris; but the formation of a conspicuous 
wooden bridge (fg. 37.) in a situation without water greatly 
injures the expression of the whole garden. The object is a 
very laudable one, that of joining two high banks by a walk; 
but this ought to have been done by an inconspicuous rustic 


Garden of Bel Respiro. 151 


[AaB al SE 
TCIM T) —— TE  AI  T q 


stone arch, concealed by creepers and wood. ‘The groups 
of trees shown in this landscape are entirely artificial; and 


though the individuals are large, they were all planted in the 
spring of 1828. The building, to the left of the picture, is 
over the well and its machinery; the windmill, on the right, 
is beyond the boundary of the garden. This property was 
purchased, the house built, and the grounds laid out, entirely 
as a mercantile speculation, by a Parisian attorney. 

The Garden of Bel Respiro ( fig. 39.), like other town gar- 
dens, is surrounded by buildings. ‘The surface is flat, and of 
no great extent; but the grounds have been laid out, from 
the proprietor’s designs, with very great care, and at a very 
great expense. In the centre of the lawn, on the entrance 
front, is a bronze figure. (fig. 38.) 


SKS Se] 


con 


Wy) 


152 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


1, Rock, with a cascade 
of water; the water 
brought by tubes from 
a reservoir, and falling 
from the rock into a 
circular basin. 


2, Bronze figure, in the 
centre of the grass 
plot, on the entrance 
front: it has a good 
effect looking through 
the iron gates from 
the street, and also 
lookingfrom thehouse 
towards the iron gates, 
serving both to mea- 
sure or increase the 
distance, and to en- 
hance the interest of 
the scene. 


Cio bae TAAL) 
S20 Gt BOG Se gene 


Ear 


3, House. 


ze 


4, Voliére (aviary). 


2 988 2 998095 8. 
& 


) 5, Draw-well, with ma- 
chinery for raising the 
water by a horse. 


soy 
Wl 
ae 


6, Wooden bridge. 


WY 
i, 
We 


7, Hot-house. 


8 and 9, Lodge of the 
keeper, the roof of 
which forms a terrace, 
which is ascended 
from walks conducted 
on the high banks 
which surround the 
garden. These banks 
are planted so as com- 
pletely to shut out the 
surrounding houses, 


e 
. 
° 


WW 
8 


-| 
| 10, Avenue of the 
| Champs Elysées. 


11, Barriére de Etoile. 
12, Street houses. 


There are numerous small Town Gardens in Paris, and many 
houses have gardens of pots on their roofs. In a work en- 
titled Le Jardinier des Fenétres, the author directs how a con- 
siderable collection of plants may be grown on the roofs of 


Architectural Town Garden. 153 


houses. Not only botany, he says, but many of the opera- 
tions of gardening, such as planting, sowing, grafting, strik- 
ing by cuttings, pruning, training, &c., may be thus taught, 
so as to give persons who pass their youth in towns, in ac- 
quiring an independency, such a knowledge of country matters 
as may lead them to retire there, when the objects of their 
industry have been obtained. There are also town gardens 
entirely of an architectural character. One of the hand- 
somest of these which we happened to see was that of a 
young architect, who unfortunately spent his whole fortune in 
creating it. The garden was in a dilapidated state; but the 
house (fig. 40.) was in tolerable repair. 


+7 
77, 


Noy) 
— SSS AN ¥ i f 
SSW 


> 
\ 


Re SRE NMR RAE) VAN ww 
B38 AD AK, 7 AN S NWA SSayes 
ROR AWA Se 


One of the most beautiful Villas in the Neighbourhood of 
Paris, as far as regards general scenery, and views beyond 
the boundary, is the park of M. Ternaux, at St. Ouen. 
(fig. 41.) The proprietor is well known as a manufacturer, 
an agriculturist, and an enlightened and philanthropic man. 
He is highly esteemed by us, not only as a man of taste, but 


154 


deal 
sat mn 1 
h 2 


Pag 


ok 


— 
ry), 


TE 
ph 


eae! 
‘ 
: 


We 


ZY 


yy 


Li 
YH Lt 


Notes and Reflections during a Tour : 


RX 


WY 


\\ 


i 


WN \ 
SS 


~ 


YY 
NSS 


N 


ore 


S WS 
XS 


AAG 
Y NS 


aa a 
. $ Sree 


Sos 


Park of M. Ternaux. 155 


as one of the warmest advocates for universal education in 
France. His park is not large, and contains little variety of 
surface; but it is situated on the high bank of the Seine, 
where that river makes one of its most beautiful bends; and 
this, with the great extent of varied scenery beyond, is seen 
to admirable advantage from M. ‘Ternaux’s house and grounds. 
The chief merit of the place consists in the adaptation of the 
scenery within the boundary, to the most beautiful parts of 
that which lies beyond it; and more especially to the finest 
parts of the river. For the latter purpose, M. Ternaux has 
formed two pieces of water (16 and 17), which harmonise with 
the river, in a manner so striking, as to make it difficult to 
convey by description a clear idea of the effect produced. 
This striking and harmonious effect was the more difficult to 
obtain, from the river being there upwards of fifty feet below 
the surface of the garden. M. Ternaux, however, fixed on 
a glimpse of the river caught in the distance, and by the two 
ponds before mentioned (16 and 17), between which and the 
distant water the eye does not meet with the slightest inter- 
ruption, not even grass or gravel, the distant reach is in effect 
brought home to the drawingroom windows. ‘To understand 
how this is done, it is necessary to know that the pond nearest 
the eye (17) is full to the brim, and from the house (2) carries 
on the eye to the farther pond (16), which, being higher than 
all the trees between it and the boundary, and at the same 
time brimful, connects it in perspective with the distant 
reach of the river. The merit of this arrangement belongs 
entirely to M. Ternaux, who had no professional assistance 
whatever. ‘The following are the details of the plan: — 

1, Manufactory, storehouses, workshops, stables, and other offices and 
lodgings for the overseers. 

2, Mansion. 3, Kitchen-garden. 4, Orangery. 5, Stove. 

6, Place for the cheval de bois (roundabout). 

7, 7, Platforms of turf, surrounded by lime trees, clipped architecturally, 
forming airy shady walks. 

8, Place for the balancoire (swing). 

9, Bergerie (sheep-houses). M.'Ternaux has a large flock of merinos, 
which are housed here every night throughout the year; and every 
day, when the ground is not covered with snow, or the rain is not 
excessive, they are taken out, to feed upon, and walk over, an exten- 
sive tract of common field land, so as to imitate the treatment they 
receive in Spain. There is also a flock of Cachemire goats lodged 
with the sheep, and treated like them. M. Ternaux manufactured the 
finest cloth from the wool of the sheep, and Cachemire shawls from 


the hair of the goats. The flock of goats and the shawl manufactory 
have, we believe, subsequently been given up. 


10, Sheep-house, with dovecot over. 11, Moss-house. 
12, Rustic temple. 135 Rock, with an archway and walk underneath. 
14, Chinese temple. 15, Parterres. 


16 and 17, Ponds connected by a rivulet. 18, Bridge. 


156 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


19, Rockwork and rustic seat. 

20, Artificial spring and rocks. The water that enters by this spring comes 
from the manufactory (1), to which it is raised from the Seine for 
various useful purposes. 

21, Two Doric columns, surmounted by marble statues. 

22, Terrace walk supported by a lofty wall, near the base of which is the 
Seine. From this terrace magnificent views are obtained. 

23, Avenues, chiefly of horsechestnuts, clipped so as to form columns 
joined by arches. The soil being dry and gravelly, the trees are very 
prolific in nuts, which were eaten greedily by the goats, as well as the 
leaves of the chestnut and other trees, when properly dried, and 
stacked up for winter use. 

24, Statues on pedestals. 

25, Lawn sprinkled with shrubs in the natural manner, sloping from 17 to 16. 

26, Elevated lawns, planted in the natural manner, and kept verdant and 
close in summer by nightly waterings. 

27, Shady winding walks a l Anglaise. 

28, Point shaded by trees, from underneath which the master-views of the 
place are obtamed. 


There are several small Villas in the Neighbourhood of Scéaux 
worthy of notice. All these, as well as the public garden of 
that place, were formed out of the park of Penthiévres. Next 
in interest to the grounds of Admiral Tchitchagoff are those 
of M. Vandermarcq: the former depends chiefly on art, the 
latter on nature. It consists of twenty or thirty acres, with 
considerable diversity of surface. It was laid out during the 
consulate, for Mademoiselle Mars, the celebrated actress, by 
the architect Berthoud, who laid out Malmaison. ‘The place 
is net without considerable beauties, but it is deficient in small 

roups; and, when we saw it, it was, like most other French 
villas, very badly kept. The villa of the Countess de Bruce 
is chiefly remarkable for its green-houses and its exotics; that 
of M. Comte for the architectural remains of the palace of 
Penthiévres ; and that of M. Sartoris is a good deal in the 
English manner. 

The Natural, or English, Style of Landscape-Gardening is 
neither generally understood nor duly appreciated in France ; 
chiefly, we believe, because the whole kingdom, as far as we 
have either heard or observed, does not contain a single good 
example. There is no want of romantic scenery in various 
districts; but there is almost every where a want of close 
green turf, of evergreen shrubs, and of good adhesive gravel. 
These natural defects are aggravated, rather than concealed, 
by the excess of art; by too many walks; by too many seats 
and buildings; and by too meagre a distribution of trees and 
evergreen shrubs. ‘The defects of nature can never be alto- 
gether overcome; more especially the want of dark green 
turf; but we do not object to sanded instead of gravel walks, 
provided they have not deep harsh edges, and are neither too 


Landscape-Gardening in France. 157 


numerous nor too perpetually serpentining, without real or 
apparent cause. In general, the walks, in Continental imitations 
of the English manner of laying out grounds, are too close 
together, and so much alike in their lines of direction, that, in 
flat grounds more especially, the effect is monotonous. In 
the park of Madame Cayla (fig. 25.), which is on an even 
surface, and sparingly though scientifically sprinkled with 
wood, the multiplicity of walks which every where meet the 
eye of the spectator destroys alike grandeur, richness, and 
repose. On hilly surfaces, like that of the park of M. Doublat 
( fig. 28.), a greater number of walks in proportion to the 
actual extent of surface is admissible than on levels; because 
both the quantity of surface and of wood appear much greater 
than they really are. The cause of this appearance is, that 
a rising surface presents a larger angle to the eye than a level 
one. What ageravates the faults of English gardens in 
France is, the very slovenly manner in which they are gene- 
rally kept; extent there, as in England, being more the object 
of ambition than excellence. ‘There are, however, exceptions, 
both in regard to the knowledge of the principles of landscape- 
gardening and the want of order and keeping ; and it gives 
us the greatest pleasure, to be able to state our conviction 
that there are no men, in any country, more thoroughly im- 
bued with the science and spirit of the art of laying out 
grounds in the natural, or English, style than M. Soulange 
Bodin and M. Gabriel Thouin; nor any places in England 
more neatly kept than Fromont, Radepont, M. Boursault’s 
garden at Paris, M. Ternaux’s at St. Ouen, and that of 
Admiral Tchitchagoff, at Sceaux, were, when we saw them 
in 1828. 

The Improvement of Landscape-Gardening in France will 
proceed rapidly in connection with other improvements; and, 
above all things, when France and Britain shall be so far 
assimilated in the price of the necessaries of life as to admit 
of the gardeners and amateurs of both countries visiting each 
other; not, as at present, for a few days or weeks, confined 
to the neighbourhood of London, or the neighbourhood of 
Paris; but for months or years, to be spent in visiting the 
finest gardens in the provinces. The turf of France might 
be very much improved by employing a proper selection of 
grasses, and by previously cultivating and manuring the soil: 
improved, indeed, to an extent that few could believe who 
have not seen the effect produced by the mixture of grass 
seeds for lawns used by Mr. Sinclair in England, and by 
M. Vilmorin in France. If the two particulars we have men- 
tioned were attended to, the lawns would be much thicker 


158 Notes and Reflections during a Tour. 


and closer, and they would by that means retain more moisture 
in the soil, so as to continue growing, and consequently green, 
during summer. ‘The same selection of grasses will insure a 
uniformity of growth in lawns and pastures, instead of that 
coarseness and tuftiness which is now almost every where 
common in lawns on dry soils. ‘The recent invention of a 
mowing machine, which operates better on dry grass than on 
a moist surface, will also contribute greatly to the improve- 
ment of the lawns in France, and in other countries with very 
dry warm summers; more especially when this machine shall 
be so much enlarged and improved as to be worked by a 
horse. The sands and gravels of France are generally loose, 
and very disagreeable to work on: by mixing the gravels 
with burnt clay pulverised, or the sands with tar, or any oily 
or greasy matter, they will become hard, so as not to require 
that continual hoeing and raking which, in their present state, 
renders them more like ground newly sown with seeds than 

aths for walking on. Evergreen shrubs do not thrive very 
well in France, from the great severity of the winters; it is 
surprising how few there are in the natural woods every 
where; and the gardens in the neighbourhood of Paris pre- 
sent a dreary appearance during several months every year, 
for want of what contributes so much to the beauty of those 
in the neighbourhood of London during the same season. 
This defect may be remedied by the more free use of the 
hardier evergreens, such as box, yew, holly, juniper, common 
and Portugal laurel, butcher’s broom, ivy, &c.: of the rapid- 
erowing evergreens, such as the Ulex Spartium, &c. (which, 
if they are easily killed by frost, are easily renewed from seed), 
and by planting the more tender American evergreens, as 
rhododendrons, kalmias, vacciniums, &c., under the protection 
of deciduous trees, in the manner of undergrowths to them. 
In short, though we cannot altogether agree with the patriotic 
sentiment of our excellent friend Soulange Bodin (Annales de 
Fromont, tom. ili. p. 96.), in his assertion that France is pre- 
eminently the country of landscape-gardening, yet we are con- 
fident that there is no defect in that country, either natural or 
artificial, which may not be greatly mitigated, if not entirely 
removed, by the resources of art. 

The Improvement which an Engiish Landscape-Gardener may 
derive from studying the state of his art in France is greater 
than might at first sight appear. By observing the exagge- 
ration of either beauties or deformities, the causes of the 
pleasure or the dislike that they excite are more easily dis- 
covered; and consequently our resources for enlarging the 
one or diminishing the other increased. Moderation in the 


Gardening in Lower Canada. 159 


use of walks is a lesson taught by almost every French garden; 
and not less so the use of depth of perspective in most views, 
whether limited to the interior, or extending across the bound- 
ary. In general, all that leads an artist to recognise and 
appreciate the minds of others in their works, has a tendency 
to lead him to infuse a superiority of mind into his own. 

In our next we shall take the gardens of Baden, and after- 
wards those of Bavaria and Wirtemberg, which will complete 
our notes. 

(To be continued.) 


Art. II. A few Remarks on the State of Gardening in Lower 
Canada, and particularly in the Neighbourhood of Montreal. By 
A. P. Hart, Esq., Barrister at Law, of Montreal, Lower Canada, 
Fellow Mont. Nat. Hist. Soc. &c. 

Sir, 

On perusing, this morning, the 39th number of your in- 
valuable magazine (Vol. VIII. p. 385.), I could not avoid re- 
proaching my friend and client, Mr. Robert Cleghorn, one of 
our most respectable nurserymen here, and the proprietor of 
Blinkbonny Garden, near this city, for his laziness in allowin 
39 numbers of the Gardener’s Magazine to be published, 
without contributing a single communication to it. ‘To show 
you that at least in Montreal we do not altogether neglect 
horticulture, I threatened that if he did not bestir himself 
I should be in the field before him ; and being confined to my 
bed-room, of which I have been an inmate from illness for a 
month back, I this evening thought that I could not better 
employ my time than in giving you a slight sketch of the state 

of horticulture in Lower Canada, and particularly in the 
neighbourhood of Montreal, trusting that it may not prove 
altogether uninteresting to your readers. 

Horticulture, far from being neglected, is very much at- 
tended to, in Lower Canada, and particularly in Montreal ; 
and no better proof can be adduced than our supporting 
three or four large nurseries. It is true that we cannot 
exhibit the gardens of private individuals containing ranges of 
hot-houses, conservatories, &c., which cannot be supposed to 
be common in a young country; but we have our miniature 
villas and gardens, which, though not of great extent, still 
contain varieties of fruits, of flowers, and every species of 
culinary vegetable. 

It has been very erroneously supposed, that, owing to the 
shortness of our summers, and the extreme length and cold 


160 Gardening in Lower Canada, 


of our winters, few fruits will ripen with us: but quite the 
contrary is the fact. The frequent and warm rains of April 
and May, and the very intense heat of our summer which- 
succeeds, cause so rapid a course of vegetation, that many 
fruits ripen here in the open air, and as standards, which can 
only be matured in England and the north of France as 
espaliers, or by the assistance of artificial heat: we only 
require hot-houses for the purpose of ripening or forcing 
tropical fruits, and fruits in winter. ‘There is hardly an exotic 
which we cannot bring into full flower in our dwelling-houses, 
where we are obliged in winter to keep up a great degree of 
heat. Should we wish to possess any extensive assortment, 
of course a hot-house would be required. 

The following are the Montreal nurseries and gardens : — 

Blinkbonny Garden, situate at Cote a Baron, owned and 
carried on by Mr. Robert Cleghorn, is the oldest and de- 
cidedly the most respectable establishment of the kind in 
Montreal. Mr. Cleghorn has paid great attention to the 
introduction and cultivation of fruit trees, of which great 
numbers are disposed of annually by him: his trees are always 
healthy and good-looking ; and, as I am in the constant habit- 
of frequenting his garden, in which I may call myself a pri- 
vileged man, I can testify as to its neatness and order. No 
catalogue has been published from Blinkbonny for some years ; 
but, from my own knowledge, Mr. Cleghorn cultivates and 
has for sale about thirty good kinds of apples, about fifteen 
or eighteen kinds of pear, about as many kinds of plum, four 
or five kinds of cherry, as many of grape, about six or eight 
kinds of gooseberry, besides other fruits, and a large col- 
lection of perennial, herbaceous, and green-house plants ; 
among which I must notice his collection of ericas and aloes. 
Blinkbonny exhibits also an extensive collection of indigenous 
plants and trees. 

Donnellan’s Garden stands next to Blinkbonny; and though. 
my Hibernian friend Donnellan and I may differ a little in 
our political way of thinking, we agree perfectly in our ideas 
of gardening; and I must do Donnellan the justice to say 
that he possesses a most capital and promising nursery ; and 
his addition of a green-house to his establishment (I omitted 
to state there is one at Blinkbonny), heated by flues in winter, 
and present collection of green-house plants, bid fair to make 
us rich in the introduction of new exotics. Mr. Donnellan has 
a fine collection of carnations, which he is successful in raising 
from seed, and in propagating from pipings, though I prefer 
the system (which I always follow) of layering (margotter, 
as the Canadians call it), Mr. Donnellan is also a market- 
gardener. 


particularly near Montreal. 161 


The New Road, or Papineau Road, Nursery is the next in 
rank as a nursery, and is the property of an honest industrious 
man, Mr. M‘Kenzie. His garden contains a very large as- 
sortment of fruit trees; and I trust that, ere many years are 
past, the blunt but open-hearted proprietor of the Papineau 
Road Nursery will be the owner of a much larger establishment. 
Mr. M‘Kenzie does a great deal in the market-garden way. 

The Montreal Botanic Garden is the next in rank, as being 
the latest established, and, though last, by no means least. 
On this garden I can dwell with pleasure, as it is the first 
instance of a French Canadian (Canadian of French extrac- 
tion) embracing the profession of a nursery and seedsman. 
It is conducted by S. Guilbault and Co., and has only been 
in operation about twelve months. Mr. Guilbault is a pro- 
mising and industrious young man; and, though he has not 
“ecsrell a botanical education, he is striving hard, by intense 
study, to attain a perfect knowledge of his irofescion and I 
can give you no better description of his garden than by send- 
ing you his catalogue, which you will find contains 327 kinds 
of green-house plants, 88 kinds of ornamental trees, ever- 
greens, &c., besides a large collection of fruits, &c. It may 
be necessary, in justice to the other nurserymen, to state that 
this catalogue contains numbers of plants and trees, of which 
Mr. Guilbault has only single specimens, and will not, there- 
fore, be ready for sale for a couple of years: in this state are 
at least two thirds of his green-house plants, and as many of 
his perennial herbaceous plants. S. Guilbault and Co. have 
erected a very capital green-house in the botanic garden. 

There are one or two other nurseries, but not of sufficient 
nets or extent to require separate descriptions. 

2 Quebec, horticulture has latterly become very much 
pee Gt to, and numbers of beautiful and picturesque situ- 
ations have been laid out in gardens, in which very beautiful 
country seats have been spegied: In climate, Quebec is very 
different to Montreal, the high grounds about the former city 
being more exposed to cold sea breezes than the level ground 
of the country of Montreal. I will at a future period give 
you a distinct account of the Quebee gardens and country 
seats, accompanied with, perhaps, two or three sketches of the 
most picturesque situations, particularly the country seat of 
William Atkinson, Esq., at Carouye, near Quebec. ‘The 
scenery about Quebec, being perfectly sublime, deserves a 
distinct article. 

And now a few words as to horticulture, and horticulture 
among amateurs, in Montreal. In the first place, the lower 
order of French Canadians are very fond of flowers, parti- 

Vou. [X.— No. 43. M 


162 Gardening near Montreal, 


cularly those residing in town, and in winter, they succeed re- 
markably well in blooming their plants, owing to the extreme 
heat kept up in their houses by means of the stoves in use in 
this country. It is by no means an uncommon sight, in 
passing through the suburbs of this town in winter, to see a 
dozen or twenty Canadian houses, in fact almost every house 
that is inhabited by a French Canadian, with the front windows 
decorated with roses, carnations, and pelargoniums (parti- 
cularly the countess seedling and pine-apple pelargoniums), 
in full bloom, and flowering in a style that would not disgrace 
the most scientific gardener. ‘Their gardens (each generally 
of a small plot of ground adjoining the house, in which they 
raise their culinary vegetables) are in summer generally 
graced with a few showy hollyhocks and roses, particularly 
the cabbage rose, together with the large crimson pzeony, and 
perhaps a few plants of bachelor’s buttons, and a few annual 
flowers. ‘Two things are always found in Jean Baptiste’s 
garden, — a lilac tree in one corner of it, and the flower 
borders full of mignonette. Latterly the Canadians are be- 
coming more fond of fruit trees, though those who could 
afford them always had one or two in their gardens. As to 
the gardens of the better-conditioned order of French Cana- 
dians, and of the English residents, they are generally very 
well cultivated, and contain several varieties of the apple, 
pear, cherry, plum, grape, and gooseberry, together with 
white, black, and red raspberries, and white, red, and black 
currants, alpine strawberries, and sometimes the pine-apple 
strawberry; the grapes most commonly grown seem to be the 
sweetwater and blue cluster. Among the larger and most 
highly cultivated gardens are those of John Molson, sen. Esq., 
the Hon. John Forsyth, John Molson, jun. Esq., H. Corse, 
Esq. (of whom more anon), James Leslie, Esq., Lepro- 
hon, Esq., B. Holmes, Esq., Jacob Dewitt, Esq., and many 
others. In the garden of Mr. Molson, sen., there is a great 
variety of fruits of such kinds as the peach, apricot, nectarine, 
apple, pear, plum, cherry, and grape. Mr. Molson has also 
a Canadian arboretum, and his garden is extremely well 
attended to by a very deserving man, James M‘Millan, for some 
years gardener to J. S. M‘Coul, Esq. In the various gardens 
above mentioned are cultivated the following kinds of apples: 
—Fameuse, Pomme grise, Bourassa, Reinette du Canada, 
all Canadian apples (the Bourassa dying off very fast. 
Why? It is said to be because the original tree lasts only 
a certain length of time, at the termination of which period 
even the young trees inoculated from it die off!); Cal- 
villes of kinds, Early harvest, Garden pippin, Nonpareil, 


particularly near Montreal. 163 


Carse of Gowrie, Irish codling, Blinkbonny seedling, Jun- 
eating, and several other kinds. In my father’s garden are 
the Smith’s and AXsopus Spitzemberg, and the Rhode Island 
greening, and Newton pippin, all excellent apples. Of pears 
the following kinds: — Summer and Winter bonchrétien. 
Doyenne blanche, Cuisse madame, Vargalien, Beurré, and 
Seckle. Of plums, the Bulmer Washington; purpie, white, 
and yellow egg plums; white and green gages, large Orleans, 
Bingham plum, and Prince’s white gage. ‘The only kinds of 
cherry which succeed here are, the Kentish, Cluster, and Early 
mayduke. ‘The grapes most commonly cultivated are, the 
White sweetwater, and Blue cluster, or Black Hamburgh ; 
but in almost all the above gardens are the White chasselas 
and the Wellington, a very large and fine grape; also the 
Portugal grape: we have also the Isabella grape cultivated, 
which is an indigenous grape; and I saw in the market, ex- 
hibited as a show by Mr. Leprohon from his garden, two or 
three bunches of the Isabella, each from 14 to 16 in. long, 
and about 4 or 5 in. broad at the broadest. I will obtain 
from Leprohon the weight of the largest bunch, and let you 
know it. The strawberries cultivated in the gardens of the 
most wealthy inhabitants, and in those of amateurs, are, the 
Alpines, Devonshire, Chili, Pine-apple, and by one or two 
(being just introduced) Wilmot’s superb. The gooseberries 
cultivated are generally the Top sawyer, Whitesmith, Rock- 
wood, Crown Bob, General de Rottenberg (a seedling named 
after a governor of the province). ‘These are the fruits most 
generally introduced by the above gentlemen. 

With regard to floriculture, we have very fine beds of 
tulips, ranunculuses, anemones, auriculas, polyanthuses; in fact, 
of all florists’ flowers; a great variety of herbaceous plants. 
Dahlias (or georginas, as they are more correctly termed) 
have been but lately introduced; and my father (Benjamin 
Hart, Esq.) can beast of the best collection of them, more 
than twenty of the finest double dwarf and tall kinds having 
flowered in most splendid style at his garden (Beaulieu, near 
Blinkbonny), and among them Coccinea maxima, King of 
the Whites, King David, Purpurea, Countess of Liverpool, 
Beauté d’ Angleterre, Golden yellow, and Spectabilis (anemone- 
flowered). ‘The whole collection was a present from 
Briscoe, Eisq., of Firtree Grove, near Dudley. The exotics 
cultivated are generally pelargoniums, of about 40 kinds; 
camellias, 10 or 12 kinds, including the Chandlerz, only 
one of which is in Montreal, one which I imported from 
Messrs. Chandler’s having died; aloes, ericas, cactuses 
(particularly the speciosissima), Crassulee, Hoya, Heliotro- 

M 2 


164 Gardening near Montreal.. 


plum, Justicéa. Lobélia falgens and spléndens, Jasminum, 
Nerium Oleander, Pittosporum, Primula pree‘nitens, and many 
others, all of which we bloom in the windows of our houses, 
as the heat requisite to be kept up in winter is quite sufficient 
for the cultivation of the above exotics. Very few persons 
have green-houses here; the neatest is one which Mrs. Bing- 
ham, the lady of William Bingham, Ksq. . has this year caused 
to be attached to her house. It contains a very well selected 
collection of plants, and does credit to Mrs. Bingham’s taste 
and knowledge of floriculture. 

I must now return to Henry Corse, Esq. .. whose garden, in 
St. Anne’s suburbs, is a perfect curiosity. It is not above 
80 ft. deep by about 100 ft. broad, and contains as much as 
many well cultivated gardens of four or five acres. Mr. Corse, 
who is a practical gardener, is fond of budding and grafting 
a number of species on the same tree, and from grafts re- 
ceived by him from Messrs. Landreth of Philadelphia; from 
the late M. Parmentier of Long Island; and from the Lon- 
don Horticultural Society, through one of its members; he 
has grafted at least twenty new kinds of pears, and fifty of 
apples, all on about two dozen of trees, and all his grafts are 
doing well. He has raised three seedling plums, one of which, 
Corse’s seedling (I think it is so called), is as fine a plum 
as any I have ever tasted, and is of a very large size; it is of 
the magnum bonum kind. Mr. Corse is a great fancier of 
florists’ flowers, in the raising of which he excels. 

We have no horticultural society in operation in Montreal. 
Some years ago there was one in existence, which had 
been carried on for a number of years, and awarded medals 
and silver cups as prizes for florists’ flowers and for fruit ; 
but by degrees it sunk into a kind of torpid state, in which it 
has remained for (now) more than eight or nine years. I 
consider it defunct; but whenever a proposition is made to 
establish a new society, up starts a member of this (cataleptic) 
society, and says, “ Oh no! I cannot join any such society, 
as the Montreal Horticultural Society is still in existence :” 
in other words “ It is not dead, only in a trance!” How- 
ever, a number of amateurs are ‘deveemined to throw off the 
shackles of this half dead and alive association, and form a 
horticultural society, the prospectus of which I hope ere long 
to send you. Before I close my letter, I beg to make a few 
remarks on the prospects of gardeners coming out to Canada. 
In Canada we haveno employment for fer cing-sar deners, unless 
it be forcing raised in hot-beds in the open air. We only wish 
for and would employ men who understand their trade, are 
something of botanists, and well-educated men. By well- 


Difficulties of young Gardeners. 165 


-educated men, J mean men possessing a good English education, 
and who can read and write well. None but those who are in- 
dustrious, honest, and sober men can hope to find employment. 
Once drunk, and a gardener loses the confidence of his 
employer ; once discharged without a certificate of good con- 
duct, and he will never obtain employment again. A gar- 
dener’s wages vary from 2/. to 3l. 10s. and 4/. per month; 
an assistant gardener from 1/. 10s. to 2/. per month. Farm 
labourers get here from 12/. to 18/. per annum; farmers from 
201. to 40/., or generally on shares. Although I find that my 
natural love of scribbling and talking (for which faults blame 
my profession) has lengthened this communication to such a 
degree, I still must extend it a few lines, to say that we have 
_ avery capital society in existence in Montreal, ‘“‘'The Montreal 
Natural History Society,” of which I am a fellow. I will 
hereafter send you a description of this association, and of its 
museum; and I will by the first favourable opportunity send 
‘the Transactions of the Quebec Literary and Historical Society, 
of which two volumes are published. 
I remain, dear Sir, yours, &c. 
St. Vincent Street, Montreal, A. P. Hart. 
Oct. 25. 1832. 


WE are extremely obliged to Mr. Hart for the above com- 
munication, and others which we have received from him; and 
we have also to thank our old and much esteemed friend, 
Mr. Cleghorn, for a packet and a letter. We wish we could 
hear from both parties frequently. — Cond. 


Art. III. On the Disabilities experienced by young Gardeners, in 
acquiring professional and general Knowledge. By SciENTIZ 
ET JUSTITIZ AMATOR. 


Sir, 

Arter the interesting remarks you made upon my last 
communication (Vol. VIII. p. 644.), itis almost unnecessary to 
trouble you with another of a similar nature. It is indeed too 
true that the evils of which we complain are undoubtedly great, 
and although it is rather unpleasant to reflect that the effectual 
removal of them can only be accomplished “ in a succeeding 
generation,” yet surely the consideration that our efforts may 
in the least be instrumental for bettering the condition of our 
brethren will more than induce us to use every means in our 

-power “ for impressing upon the minds of all” the great im- 
M 3 


166 Difficulties of young Gardeners 


portance of disseminating knowledge as one of the means by 
which this great end is to be gained. In proportion as ad- 
vantages for mental cultivation are enjoyed and made use of 
by the different classes of society, we may expect to see an 
honourable noble-minded population. It was long the boast 
of gardeners to be looked up to as a class of men rather su- 
perior in their mental attainments. For, independently of many 
of the operations of our art being the most delightful in which 
man can be engaged, the beholding of the beauties of nature 
instinctively leads to an investigation of the properties of the 
objects with which we are daily conversant ; and thus a prin- 
ciple of enquiry being produced, and the pursuit of knowledge 
appearing in a form more alluring to the gardener than it 
generally did to the mechanic, the supposed superiority of the 
former was the consequence. I say was, for I am not pre- 
pared to show that now it is the case. The long-slumbering 
spirit of research being at length aroused, a wonderful alter- 
ation has been produced in the intellectual capacities of our 
countrymen. But while other classes of operatives have 
their libraries and reading rooms, their debating clubs, and 
mutual instruction societies, their prize essays, and institutions 
for the dissemination of science; all operating as so many 
breezes for wafting them with full-extended sails along the 
tide of improvement; not only are young gardeners in general 
deprived of these advantages, but often additional obstacles 
are put in their way, so that many of those who have been able 
to keep pace with the age, may be said to have done so, m@re 
in spite of opposing circumstances, than from the fostering 
care they experienced. As the exposing of an evil is gene- 
rally the first step towards its extermination, I shall, in addi- 
tion to low wages, and want of proper encouragement, advert 
to several of the disadvantages to which we are frequently ex- 
posed, in our pursuit of general and professional knowledge. 
The first impediment to many a young man begins to act 
as soon as he commences the profession. If he serves his 
time in a small establishment, he is likely to acquire a pretty 
good practical knowledge of his profession, as his master will 
converse freely with him, and give him all the information in 
his power. But, as the minds of youth are very susceptible 
of being struck with admiration of external splendour, he 
becomes anxious to receive his first instructions in some cele- 
brated establishment, and willingly agrees to pay a high ap- 
prentice fee, in the expectation that he will be more initiated 
in the principles of the art, and finally be better qualified for, 
‘and more likely to receive, a respectable situation. Often is 
‘this hope disappoimted. The master, instead of encouraging 


zn acquiring Knowledge. 167 


the inquisitive disposition so common.to youth, seldom deigns 
to speak to him at all, and, from his keeping such a distance, 
the young man cannot summon the assurance to ask him to 
explain any thing that may appear a difficulty. In circum- 
stances such as these, there is generally a foreman who exer- 
cises a sufficiently hectoring authority over the men, but who 
often possesses neither the ability nor the willingness to im- 
part much useful information; and his conduct towards the 
journeymen (along with whom the apprentice is employed) 
being any thing but calculated to insure respect, they will 
take every opportunity of exposing his faults to each other, 
and holding up his operations to ridicule, so that the young 
man, although anxious for information, can come to no cer- 
tainty in forming his ideas; but, soon seeing through some in- 
consistencies, both of journeymen and foreman, and acquiring 
the art of using his tools as dexterously as any of them, he 
builds himself up in his own self-sufficiency, the greatest bar- 
rier to every improvement, and seldom perceives his error 
until, when placed in different circumstances, he finds, to his 
sorrow, that, instead of being a proficient, he has his business 
still to learn. These things ought not to be. The occupa- 
tion of a gardener is different from most others. Many ofe 
the operations of our art are so simple that they may be per- 
formed by any one. The laws and principles upon which 
these operations are founded are not so easily attainable, and 
the master-gardener who gives not instruction on these points 
to his apprentice, or does not cause them to be given, is guilty 
of little less than unjustly defrauding the young man of his 
money, and robbing him of his time, that most precious of 
all treasures. 

In former days, when a man had served his apprenticeship, 
the means of acquiring a farther knowledge of his profession 
were laid open to him, his good conduct and strict attention 
to his duty being sufficient recommendations for enabling him 
to gain admittance into the most respectable establishments. 
Very different is the case now. From the superabundance of 
hands, not only is there a difficulty in procuring a journey- 
_man’s situation, but the practice is becoming common of 
shutting the gates of extensive establishments upon those who 
are either unable or unwilling to pay a premium to the master. 
I know of no other class of operatives that are exposed to 
this humiliating necessity. ‘There are certain cases where the 
practice may be justifiable. When a man, after great atten- 
tion and trouble, succeeds in cultivating, to a great degree of 
perfection, any department of the vegetable world, he cannot 


be found fault with for taking a compensation from those who 
M +4 


168 Difficulties of young Gardeners 


are anxious to witness his rationale of culture, provided they 
have full opportunity of doing so, and receiving all the neces- 
sary instruction and information; but there are instances 
where, from attendant circumstances, it is impossible that 
these expectations can be realised, as in the case of a much 
praised establishment not a hundred miles from London, 
where the young men must pay a large premium before they 
are admitted into the grounds, and yet the individual who 
exacts this sum considers it beneath him to hold any inter- 
course with his men, and (as I have been informed) deigns 
not to hear a request or grant a favour, unless submitted to 
his consideration by being sent upon paper, in the form of a 
petition. I am at a loss to know how any young man can 
receive the worth of his money in such a place as this. It is, 
however, of little use mentioning instances; we must attack 
the principle itself, as the practice is now becoming so fashion- 
able, that we can scarcely but come to the conclusion that it 
is either encouraged or winked at by gentlemen, as an excuse 
for not giving their head gardeners better wages. ‘That it Is 
attended with injurious results to the journeyman gardener 
(unless when more than compensated by the kindness and 
communicativeness of his master) cannot for a moment be 
doubted, were no other evils resulting from it than the impos- 
sibility, to which it exposes him, of purchasing books connected 
with his profession, many of which, from their extravagant 
price, are already too difficult to be obtained. Before leaving 
the subject, I shall advert to an assertion of Mr. Whid- 
den’s (Vol. VIII. p. 730.), that “no honest gardener would 
be so great a blockhead as to give 20/. for a situation.” Such 
a sweeping declaration leads me, in charity, to suppose, that 
Mr. Whidden is one of those fortunate individuals who have 
never experienced the difficulties with which gardeners are 
beset. We may safely conclude that no man would do so by 
an act of pure volition, any more than the young gardener 
who consents to pay a premium at every establishment he 
enters. It is necessity which causes the latter to pay out of 
his wages from 1s. to 4s. per week, or a premium of from 44. 
to 20/., that he may be admitted into an establishment merely 
as a workman; and, impelled by the same necessity, the in- 
telligent honest gardener, who had (as many have) little in- 
terest or influence to depend upon, would show very few signs 
of blockheadism by giving 20/., if he could raise as much 
money, for a respectable situation, where he was likely to be 
comfortable, in preference to being without employment, or 
begging admittance into a nursery, and, when there, living 
for two or three years in all the agonies of disappointed hope. 


in acquiring Knowledge. 169 


Out of two evils I should select the least. Instead of finding 
fault with “ An Enemy to Bribery,” for exposing a system, 
because it was far from being general, Mr. Whidden either 
knows, or ought to know, that to stop the progress of any evil 
most effectually is to attack it whenever it presents itself, and 
not to wait until the generality of the practice, as in the case 
of premium-taking, proves almost a sufficient defence. 

A calm comfortable state of mind greatly accelerates the 
acquisition of knowledge; but this advantage the journeyman 
gardener is often a stranger to, his mind being kept in con- 
stant uneasiness from the tyrannical conduct of his master. 
Those who have always been placed under kind intelligent 
masters can form no idea of the painful sensations which the 
feeling mind experiences in being placed in circumstances 
entirely the reverse. Iam happy to inform you that the prac- 
tice of tyrannising over the men is unknown in this neigh- 
bourhood ; but the pleasing circumstances in which I am at 
present placed, under one of the most affable and communi- 
cative of masters, with great opportunities for mental cultiva- 
tion, have not yet erased from my memory the recollection of 
scenes, not more revolting to the honourable mind, than they 
are subversive of the improvement of gardeners. Painful 
though the truth be, it must be told that there are master- 
gardeners whose practice gives evidence that they consider 
themselves a different species of beings from their assistants ; 
and who, were it not for the laws we enjoy, would exercise 
their power in as cruel and overbearing a mannet as ever was 
attempted by any blood-stained despot. I have witnessed a 
master-gardener, with rage in his countenance and fury in 
his eyes, seizing a rod, and threatening to lay prostrate a 
couple of his men; and, merely as an instance of haughtiness 
and pride, I may mention that I have seen another, who, 
when observing one of his assistants coming towards him for 
the purpose of asking a favour, generally commenced walking 
in another direction, so that the degraded suppliant was under 
the necessity of walking at his heels in making known his 
request, and then obliged to act the part of a dog for a 
considerable distance farther, before his mighty highness 
would deign to give an answer of yes or no. ‘There is one 
comforting thought, however, that, in almost all the places I 
have heard of where master-gardeners are noted for their 
haughtiness and oppression, they are likewise known for their 
want of general knowledge, and a deficiency in intellectual 
attainments. ‘True ability has little chance of being noticed 
in such places. Nay, were it not that it would take up too 

ch space, and might be prejudicial to some individuals, I 


170 Difficulties of young Gardeners 


could show, from instances, that-a man’s general knowledge 
has been the means of rendering him an eyesore, and ex- 
posing him to every species of insult. To be convicted of 
asserting your innocence when charged with unwarranted 
blame is, with such men, a sufficient plea for stigmatising you 
with the epithets of insolent and surly, and indulging in 
abusive language that would disgrace a company of oyster- 
women, or a party of coal-heavers. The effects of such treat- 
ment not only preclude improvement during the hours of 
labour, but I have frequently seen that, when a young man got 
to his lodgings at night, instead of being in a state for apply- 
ing himself to any study whatever, he has retired disconsolate 
to his chamber, there to experience some relaxation of his 
griefs, by giving vent to those distracting feelings “¢ of which, 
in presence of his fellow-men, his pride had stopped the flood- 
gates.” Some support this abominable system, considering it 
necessary for keeping men in subjection, and sufficiently at- 
tentive to their duties. Never was a weaker argument pro- 
duced, or that showed less acquaintance with human nature. 
‘That a master should keep as much distance from his men 
as is necessary for respect to his authority and obedience to 
his commands none will deny; but that this tyrannising sys- 
tem can be productive of these results none will admit who 
have marked the fear portrayed in the countenance, and the 
energy apparent in every muscle, of the men, when the little 
despot appeared in view, and the skulking, scheming, and 
watching that took place, when once he was out of the way. 
To treat men with humanity and confidence is the true method 
to render them diligent and faithful. The better feelings of 
their nature are brought into action, and, impelled by grati- 
tude and respect, they will strain every nerve to further their 
master’s designs and promote his interest. 

The practice prevalent in some places, of causing the young 
men to work beyond regular hours, without allowing them 
any compensation, cannot but be prejudicial, as depriving 
them of those hours of relaxation which ought to be devoted 
to mental improvement. ‘That there are occasions when an 
hour or two of extra-time may be #equired none will deny, 
or seek to withhold; but the rendering of it common is not 
only a species of robbery, but a degrading of the young men 
below the labourers, who are generally permitted to go home 
at the regular hours. Perhaps some may say there is no ne- 
cessity in the case; but the truth is, there is an absolute neces- 
sity to do so if it is required: the consequence of the least 
grumbling or remonstrance would be, the information, by none 
of the most pleasant methods, that, if you did not, another 


in acquiring Knowledge. ~ 171 


would; and thus the young men, knowing how much they are 
exposed to the effects of their master’s caprice, are forced 
silently to put up with systems of oppression which they de- 
test and abhor. In most cases I believe the practice originates 
in the selfishness of the master, who, to obtain a little praise 
‘to himself, strives to keep up a better appearance than the 
number of his assistants admits of; thus not only rendering 
the place uncomfortable to his men, but unpleasant to the 
next gardener who may come in his room. I have taken no- 
tice of this species of oppression, for the purpose of drawing 
toward it the attention of the employers of gardeners, as, from 
several circumstances which have fallen under my observation, 
I am inclined to think that in general they are unacquainted 
with the practice. 

The last disadvantage to which I would allude is, the very 
uncomfortable hovels in which, in many instances, the young 
men are lodged. It is a common practice, especially in Scot- 
land, for the young men employed in the garden to be lodged 
upon the premises, and yet seldom is there any place thought 
of for them until all the buildings are completed, and then, as 
a matter of course, one of the sheds behind the houses gets a 
sort of fit up for their reception. ‘There are many comfort- 
able rooms thus formed ; but I know of instances where they 
are so cold, damp, and gloomy [see Vol. VIII. p. 596.], as to 
be totally unfit for human habitations. Not only do these 
uncomfortable abodes, by the unpleasant sensations they 
create, operate to a certain extent as barriers to mental im- 
provement; but the young men, being incited to seek that 
pleasure abroad which they cannot enjoy at home, are often 
thus driven to form those habits of unsteadiness and dissipa- 
tion which are both ruinous to themselves and prejudicial to 
the interests of their employers. I am fully convinced that, 
for the removal of this evil, in the greater number of instances, 
little more would be necessary than pointing it out to the 
nobleman or gentleman: but the principles of some men seem 
to be such, that, instead of endeavouring to diffuse happiness 
around them, they feel a sort of pleasure in contrasting their 
own commodious dwellings with the damp, dirty, unwhole- 
some dungeons of those who are their inferiors. I can scarcely 
expect that you should devote any of your pages to plans for the 
abodes of assistants, as you are doing for head gardeners; but, 
that you may be fully convinced of the truth of my statements, 
I request that, when you again take a tour through the coun~ 
try, you will take a peep at some of those abominable filthy 
holes, often appropriated for us, which have already proved, 


172 Difficulties of young Gardeners. 


and are still likely to prove, ruinous to many a healthy con- 
stitution. 

In sending you this long train of disadvantages, I am in- 
fluenced by no personal motives on the one hand, or “ malice 
or jealousy” (Vol. VIII. p. 730.) on the other ; but purely by 
the desire of seeing all impediments removed which obstruct 
the possession of real knowledge, either by the gardener or the 
community at large. By real knowledge, I mean not merely 
an acquaintance with the operations and principles of our 
profession, but a knowledge which, while it informs us of our 
rights and privileges as men, likewise shows us our duties in 
the different stations of society, as rulers and subjects, masters 
and servants, parents and children, &c. ; which, in short, while 
it teaches us the homage which, as creatures, we owe to the 
Creator, likewise clearly unfolds to our view the benevolent 
conduct we are bound to practise toward our brethren of 
mankind. Sensible of my own ignorance and need of as- 
sistance, having only begun to taste the pleasures of know- 
ledge, I feel anxious that others should not only taste, but 
feast upon, the same; and proud shall I be if my feeble efforts 
should in the least be instrumental in accelerating the propa- 
gation of a blessing needed in every climate, and suited to 
every soil. I call upon you, as the conductor of the Gar- 
dener’s Magazine, not only to continue your assistance, but to 
give increased support. I call upon Mr. Mallet, and all those 
gentlemen who have kindly told us what we ought to be, not 
to stop here, but to lend their aid in getting these qualifica- 
tions put within our reach. I call upon every man whose 
heart is imbued with the feelings of philanthropy, and whose 
conduct is regulated by principles which incite him to do to 
others as he would be done to, to let no opportunity escape 
of fostering the spread of intelligence, knowing it will prove 
a mighty instrument, not only for ameliorating that profession 
to which he belongs, not merely for advancing the moral cha- 
racter and true enjoyments of his countrymen, but also for 
furthering the spread of civilisation, and extending happiness 
and peace over the world. From men who tell us that know- 
ledge has already been productive of evil, and that in the end 
it will complete the ruin of our country, we can expect no- 
thing but opposition. Some who advocate this doctrine owe 
their comfortable situation in life to having received a superior 
education ; and yet, with a miserly selfishness, they would deny 
the same pleasures to others, telling us, at the same time, that 
education only rendered workmen more insolent and unma- 
nageable. ‘That true knowledge renders a man insolent, in 
the common acceptation of the word, we will not for a mo- 


Disabilities of young Gardeners. 173 


ment credit; that it will show him the treatment he ought to 
experience, we will not attempt to deny. Unmanageable, for- 
sooth! ‘These would-be sages are right for once; for well do 
they know that the spread of information will ring the death- 
knell to their despotic power. Let them do what they can to 
stop the march of intellect; in spite of all their efforts the 
period wz// come when they shall no longer shine resplendent 
amid the gloom of ignorance with which they delight to be 
surrounded ; when, a more extended education being placed 
within the reach of the labouring population, their ideas shall 
receive such an expansion as will lead them indignantly to 
throw down the habit of the slave and the badge of the serf, 
to array themselves in the majesty and dignity of man ; while, 
at the same time, impossible though it seem to these narrow- 
minded upholders of wrong, a mutual attachment shall be 
formed between the employer and the employed, the former 
being rendered more generous and humane, and the latter 
more faithful and trustworthy. 1am, Sir, yours, &c. 

ScIENTIZ ET JUSTITIZ AMATOR. 
Staffordshire, Dec. 21. 1832. 


Art.1V. Some of the Disabilities which enthral young Gardeners. 
By Eruesicus HorricuLTor. 
Sir, 

Any unprejudiced reader of your magazine may see, and 
every under-gardener who knows what it is to act in that 
capacity, must feel, the truth and justness of the remarks of 
your very intelligent correspondent, “ Scientize et Justitiae 
Amator” (Vol. VIIL p. 641.), upon Mr. Mallet’s advice 
(Vol. VIII. p. 521.) to young gardeners. The true state of 
the young aspirant of the spade, and the various disadvantages 
under which he labours, standing as hinderances to his further 
improvement, are subjects which ought to interest not a little 
every employer of gardeners, every lover of horticulture, and 
the editor of the Gardener’s Magazine; because it is evident 
that each has his peculiar interests, or at least those of his 
successor, in some degree at stake, in the attainments of the 
rising generation of gardeners ; for, if the young gardener has 
fewer advantages, he will have to contend with more pri- 
vations; and, of course, by thus having less opportunity of 
gaining knowledge, he must retrograde in science, and a cor- 
responding loss will hence accrue, first, to the employers 
of gardeners, inasmuch as the gardeners, by decreasing in 
knowledge, will decrease in power (for knowledge is power), 


174 Disabilities of young Gardeners. 


and be less able to discharge the various duties incumbent on 
him; secondly, to every lover of gardening, in as far as the 
very cause and essence of his delight and admiration will be 
increased or diminished in proportion as the gardener is 
learned or ignorant; and thirdly, to you, the editor of their 
magazine, just inasmuch as its talent and worth depend upon 
the : spontaneous efforts of the enlightened and intelligent part 
of that body. In proportion, then, as its existence is based 
upon their taste and scientific desires, just in as far as we 
recede from science, the taste for your magazine will decrease, 
till at last, if this declension continues, the very love of learn- 
ing with gardeners, and your work, will become extinct. 

The contemplation of the conduct of horticultural societies, 
which have for their avowed object the improvement of gar- 
deners and gardening, to the younger members of the profes- 
sion, has often excited in my mind a degree of surprise 
approaching to wonder. If their practice be a just criterion, 
the whole aim seems to be, to encourage, by every means in 
their power, the head gardener, who is, or at least should be, 
a proficient in his calling, to make greater strides in the 
acquisition of professional skill, and to excite in his mind a 
thirst for the prosecution of original investigation; while at 
the same time they entirely neglect the most important part 
of the body, the young; who are left to steer, in the prose- 
cution of a knowledge of their business, in any manner they 
think most suitable to their circumstances or inclination. No 
prizes are awarded to them for essays, well drawn plans, or 
original designs; prizes which, however trifling may be their 
real value, would act as a sure stimulus to exertion, and 
might be the means of fetching out and bringing into action 
the latent abilities of not a few. Much could be justly said 
in reference to the ill-organised state and-inefficiency of these 
societies, for the purposes for which they were instituted; but 
this is aside from the object of my present letter. 

Your correspondent, above alluded to, has shown that we 
labour under disadvantages totally unknown to many other 
occupations, and he has touched cursorily upon the greater 
part of our difficulties; but, as he appears well qualified to 
wield the quill, and able to describe what he feels both in 
body and mind, I would suggest that you invite him to enter 
a little more into the detail of our grievances: and this I 
would urge the more upen you, because I am aware that the 
first step towards making wrong right, is to be sensible that it 
is so; and for another reason: —I know that many of the evils 
complained of by journeymen are of easy remedy; and in 
many cases are not the fault of the employer, but emanate 


Disabilities of young Gardeners. 175 


too often from the intrigue and self-interested disposition of 
the head gardener. It might naturally be expected that per- 
sons who have passed the subordinate degrees before obtain- 
ing command would, from their experience of the situation of 
an inferior, be more lenient and indulgent; and would take 
every opportunity of impressing those under them with the 
true value of time, and the important uses to which it is to 
be applied, so as to render them fit for discharging the duties 
of the situation they desire eventually to fill, with credit to 
themselves and gratification to their employers: yet it is a 
fact, confirmed by experience, that the very reverse of this is 
the case, and I am grieved I cannot make an exception of 
the gardener; for, in too many instances, they treat their 
young assistants in such a haughty and overbearing manner 
as is sufficient to make the most anxious lose heart, and 
enough to destroy any bright embryo genius that may come 
under its blighting influence. 

Before I proceed to detail what I have seen and expe- 
rienced, and to assist as much as in me lies to extirpate that 
monster, oppression, from the precincts of the love-inspiring 
garden, let me tell you that, in re-reading some late volumes 
of your Magazine, I observe this subject has not been altogether 
overlooked by your correspondents; for in Vol. V. p.18. I 
see the money-extorting system of many gardeners, entirely 
independent of ability or past experience, has been criticised 
by R.S.E. “ Neutral” also (p. 101.) has made some true 
remarks upon their notorious arrogance and pride. I per- 
fectly agree with the observations of both these correspondents, 
and confirm them by attesting their truth. But there is 
another disadvantage, if I am right in giving it so mild a term, 
under which too many of us are placed, unnoticed as yet by 
your correspondents; I mean the practice of working young 
gardeners after the regular hours for labour, without giving 
them any extra-remuneration. ‘This, I believe, prevails to a 
much greater extent than many are aware of, and, however 
low and mean it really is, the practice is nevertheless extend- 
ing. In many places, particularly in Scotland, the young 
men are obliged to work from sunrise to sunset, and in winter, 
when the sun wi!l not suffice to satisfy the insatiable disposition 
of the gardener, artificial light is brought forward, and all 
jobs that can be done by its assistance are studiously reserved 
for this purpose. Gardeners might exculpate themselves 
from this foul charge, if it were the doing of their employers, 
or if their existence depended upon the exertions of the young 
men; yet even in these circumstances it would be slavish and 
unjust, without first giving them extra-money for extra-time, 


176 Disabilities of young Gardeners. 


and leaving it to their option whether they would do it or not. 
Whenever we consider that gardeners and their assistants are 
employed for the express purpose of adding to the gentle- 
man’s luxuries and enjoyments, how mean and contemptible 
does this conduct appear! and particularly so, when we reflect 
farther, and observe, that, in the majority of cases, it is solely 
the base contrivance of the head gardener, from the still baser 
motive of ingratiating himself into the favour of his master, 
by robbing his young men of that which he is utterly unable to 
return, and which to them is more valuable than money: time. 
Medical men assure us that ten hours a day for labour is suffi- 
cient fora healthy able-bodied man; and I would add, that, where 
the mind has to be cultivated at the same time, a little less 
might suffice: but to reason upon the injustice and slavishness 
of this custom would be useless, and equally absurd as if I 
were attempting to prove the truth of a self-evident proposition. 
Let it suffice, then, that I give you an example from real life, 
omitting names and dates, as they are said to be odious, and 
serve little purpose, as it is the principle I wish to expose and 
combat, and not to give personal provocation; and an ex- 
ample also I think better, because it will explain my meaning 
more truly, and with greater effect, than any description I am 
able to give. Well, then; on a certain baronet’s estate, not 
quite a third of a geographical degree from a northern metro- 
polis, there is, or at least was, a celebrated garden, into which 
all young aspirants were anxious to be admitted, from the 
great quantum of knowledge they supposed was to be acquired 
within it. ‘The gardener was a man not a little respected by 
his master and others, I believe. The family went three 
months every summer to London, and during their absence 
the gardener displayed his real character. Sunrise and sun- 
set were the hours for labour, and nothing but improvement 
was the order of the day; and all this for the only purpose 
of gaining favour, by exciting surprise in the mind of his 
employer on his return, by having so much done, and at no 
extra-expense. Whata wretched desire ! What a despicable 
ambition! ‘This gardener (and recollect that he is by no means 
without the countenance of others of his brethren in iniquity), 
at the time when the young men should be cutting the lawn, 
which from the absence of the family stood for hay, would make 
them commence work at five in the morning, and continue 
them, under the heat of a July sun, till seven in the evening; 
and then, asa mark of humanity and the greatness of his soul, 
he would tell them to go and get what he technically called 
“a piece,” and come to the green-house, where he would 
have plants to shift, &c., at which he would keep them em- 


Disabilities of young Gardeners. 177 


ployed till darkness put an end to the toils of the day! I 
shall now treat you with another example as it happened, and 
upon the truth of which you may depend, to give you an idea 
how very stickling they are about a few minutes, in those 
places where the regular hours are kept. Ona certain duke’s 
demesne, hardly the fourth of the distance of the place above 
mentioned from the said metropolis, there is a gardener of 
celebrity in the horticultural world, who, like too many others, 
extorts ten pounds from every journeyman he employs, aside 
from abilities or qualifications. It happened that several of 
the young men and a foreman were employed in cleaning 
walks at some distance from the garden. At the hour of 
cessation from labour for dinner, three of them strolled away 
in search of some native plants by a neighbouring river side, 
in search of which they spent so much time as to be unable 
to reach their work till ten minutes after the stated hour: on 
arriving, the foreman told them, that, as they were behind 
time, he could not allow them to commence work without 
they first got the liberty of the head gardener. Accordingly, 
the three set out to hear the decision of their master, which 
turned out to be the following: — “ You must either return, 
and beg the foreman’s pardon ; or else leave the place.” ‘Two 
of them, having already paid their entry money, thought it a 
pity to sacrifice so much cash for this humbling whim of their 
master, and accordingly complied: the other, having his 
money still in his possession, refused, and consequently was 
immediately dismissed. What man endowed with a healthy 
body could stoop to such degradation ? Who, with a sound 
mind, or the spirit of a man, could yield to such debasement ! 
Some may think I have chosen extreme cases; but I can assure 
you that these two are picked out at random, from a host 
of equal hue, and without going to the right or left in search 
of them. 

Before concluding, I have a word or two to say about what 
kind of educated gardeners we may expect shortly. Accord- 
ing to correspondents of your magazine, we ought, besides a 
common English education, joined with a general knowledge 
of arithmetic, to possess an acquaintance with the dead 
languages, and with as many of the living as possible ; added 
to these, a very considerable knowledge of natural history 
and natural philosophy, and also to travel, not only through 
our own island, but to visit the Continent, &c. Now, sup- 
posing that a father was placed in circumstances capable of 
giving his son all these qualifications, would you not, if he 
asked your advice, advise him to put his son to some more 

Vou. IX.— No. 43. N 


178 Disabilities of young Gardeners. 


profitable occupation than that of a gardener; in which he 
would have to labour for ten or twelve years, under gardeners 
ten or twenty times more ignorant than himself, and that, 
too, for a remuneration barely sufficient to support him in 
existence; where he would have to contend with all the 
privations and ignominy of a young gardener’s life; and, 
after all, be placed in a situation, perhaps, where a whim- 
sical master, or a capricious mistress, an invidious land 
steward, a self-conceited ignorant housekeeper, or a greasy 
cook, would be continually pestering his brains, if not daily 
endangering him of his situation? Iask, would you not con- 
sider that parent as only a slight remove from a madman, 
who would be so utterly devoid of common sense as to do so? 
First, then, let the gardener receive a recompense worthy of 
these qualifications, and, by necessary consequence, learned 
and scientific gardeners will immediately follow; but not till 
then. This is the true solution of the question. Rejecting 
empirics, and taking gardeners as a body, I do think they are 
every whit as well learned as they are well paid; and I question 
very much whether the great and learned Sir Henry Steuart 
(giving every allowance for the superior talents and genius 
which have been conferred upon him), if he had received but 
an indifferent education, and had had to encounter the disad- 
vantages of the gardener, would have been qualified to have 
exposed our ignorance and self-sufficiency ; or whether, in 
these circumstances, he would have been able to have arrived 
at mediocrity in our profession? If an effort be not made 
shortly for the raising of the situation of the young gardener, 
we, as a professional body, shall fall back in knowledge; and, 
a recession once fairly begun, we shall recede with accelerated 
rapidity, and perhaps (like some of the laws of the uni- 
verse) our velocity will increase according to the squares of 
the distances passed over, and none can tell where we may 
finally stand. 

I have extended these observations much beyond my anti- 
cipation, and I find that I could yet say a little more upon this 
rather touching subject; but, in case you think me tedious, I 
shall conclude by stating that, if you publish them, you will 
give publicity to the sentiments of the majority of young gar- 
deners on this subject, so far as I have been able to ascertain 
them, sentiments impressed upon them by observation, and 
taught them by that rigid schoolmaster experience, as well as 
on, Sir, yours, &c. 

Eeuesicus Horricuttor. 
Peeblesshire, Jan. 29. 1833. 


Lilectricity of Nature. 179 


Art. V. On the Electricity of Nature, and its Connection with 
Magnetism and with the other grand Natural Phenomena. By 
the Author of the “‘ Domestic Gardener’s Manual.” 

Sir, 

On perusing the report of Mr. Ritchie’s lecture upon “ the 
relation between electricity and magnetism,” given at p. 128. 
of the fourth number of the Journal of the Royal Institution, 
I was forcibly struck with the concluding remark, that “ we 
were fast approaching to the period when all the phenomena 
of light, electricity, &c., would probably be referred to the 
same great cause, merely acting in different ways.” 

My attention was peculiarly excited by the quotation from 
one of the lectures of the late Professor Playfair, alluding to 
the probable discovery of the existence of one general prin- 
ciple, which would be found to unite all the grand natural 
phenomena, and to connect them with that of gravitation. I 
could not but feel deeply interested by these concluding 
remarks of the lecturer, because they brought to my recol- 
lection that, upon the memorable observation (not to style it 
prediction) of Professor Playfair, above alluded to, I was led 
to ground the electrical hypothesis by which I have endea- 
voured to explain the various phenomena of vegetable life 
and growth. It will be evident, on referring to the closing 
paragraphs of the preface to the Domestic Gardener’s Manual, 
p- 6., that I am correct in what [assert ; for I therein observe 
that “the conjecture of this great man has, to a certain 
extent, been verified; and that it may not be presumptuous to 
conjecture that the great principle itself will ultimately be 
referred to one grand and only source. I believe that the 
source is already discovered and known, and that it only 
requires the philosophic mind to divest itself of prejudices, 
and to cease from pursuing shadows, since the substance 
itself stands revealed to the view of all. If I succeed in ren- 
dering this apparent, I shall enjoy the satisfaction of having 
done something for the cause of science, by simplifying the 
means of scientific research into the operations of that grand 
principle, which I cannot but view as the source of, and prime 
operative agent in, all the phenomena of the material world.” 

The immediate object of this paper is to point out the prime 
source of that fluid, or ethereal essence, misnamed electricity ; 
and to afford evidence of its universal diffusion and general 
agency. But, in order to render my meaning as clear and 
free from ambiguity as possible, I shall premise that I con- 
sider the electricity of nature to be distinct (in its effect, at 


least) from the electricity in masses, as revealed and brought 
’ N 2 


180 Electricity of Nature, 


into action by our machines; and that, however homogeneous 
the two fluids may be in their physical constitution, they differ 
essentially in the nature of the energy they exert, particularly 
in that employed in the developement of the vegetable 
structure. 

Without at this time dwelling upon the enquiry, whether 
every individual substance throughout nature be or be not 
possessed of an electricity specifically peculiar to itself, I 
shall observe, in passing, that I conceive that every portion 
of matter is imbued with a certain quantity of electricity, 
existing either in a state of actual chemical union with, and 
as one of, its constituents; or in that of simple intersti- 
tial infiltration between its molecular particles. The phe- 
nomena of atmospheric decompositions, of lightning, and of 
voltaic electricity, tend, I think, to demonstrate the chemical 
energy exerted by the ethereal fluid ; while those of friction, 
of percussion, and of endosmosis (or the penetrativeness of 
liquids and gases), afford evidence of molecular deposition. 
Perhaps it would not be unphilosophical to hazard the con- 
jecture that electricity, in whatever state it exists, is the grand 
natural cement; and that by it every substance, whether 
solid, fluid, or gaseous, is retained in its specific state of 
chemical, or (as it may be termed) mechanical, union; and 
that every act or process of percussion, of decomposition, or 
of combination, and the like, tends to produce, or is accom- 
panied by, a change in the electrical condition of a body so 
disturbed. 

In as much as refers to electro-chemical action, I may be 
permitted to assume — 

First, that ‘all bodies which have a chemical affinity 
for each other are in opposite states of electricity ; and che- 
mical affinity depends so much upon electricity, that their 
natural affinities may be modified or destroyed (by what i is 
termed) artificial means.” 

Secondly, ‘ Those substances or bodies which are incapable 
of chemical combinations are uniformly in the same electrical 
condition ; since they repel, but cannot attract, each other.” 

Thirdiy, ‘Since bodies which attract one another are pos- 
sessed of different electricities, and those which repel one 
another are possessed of the same electricity (phenomena 
which are in exact conformity with those of artificial electri- 
city), it follows that all bodies which attract or repel one 
another are electrified bodies. When bodies possessing 
opposite qualities, such as those of acid and alkali, enter into 
union, they do so by the attractive or disposing influence of 
their respective electricities ; and, in the act of union, the two 


and its Connection with Magnetism. 181 


chemical bodies, and also the two disposing electricities, neu- 
tralise each other, and lose their distinctive qualities: and as 
the union has been induced and effected by electric attraction, 
so it is maintained by the quiescent attraction of the two elec- 
tricities ; till it becomes disturbed by a more powerful agency, 
which induces a change in the neutral substance, and gives its 
constituents a tendency to enter into new arrangements.” 

For the first two of the above principles I am wholly 
indebted to the high authority of the illustrious Davy; the 
third is dependent upon the two preceding, although it is 
somewhat more comprehensive in the views that it embraces. 

I come now to the consideration of that important, that 
paramount agency, which appears to me to be constantly and 
universally in a state of active operation. It has been already 
mentioned, that the great principle of union, first named by 
Professor Playfair, and recently referred to by Mr. Ritchie, 
is, in fact, actually known; but, as is too frequently the case, 
men of even the highest mental endowments are too apt to 
overlook the most visible evidence of facts, and to pursue 
some phantom of the imagination. ‘Thus it appears to have 
happened with respect to the subject now under enquiry. 

The sun, the great fountain of light, is daily seen; its in- 
fluence is felt and acknowledged by all: still, however, as 
this grand luminary is constantly before the eyes of man, he 
fails in duly appreciating the stupendous importance of his 
agency, and the number or magnitude of the phenomena 
which he induces. ‘To this luminary, this centre of our pla- 
netary system, we must have recourse, if we hope ever to 
discover the primary governing principle. It is in vain that 
we investigate and compare known results; that we institute 
further and more severe experimental enquiries, with a view 
to ascertain some certain bond or connecting link between 
the several natural phenomena: the fact is, let us search 
how and where we may, we discover nothing but mere effects, 
the results produced by some mighty cause (I speak not ab- 
stractedly of the First Cause) ; and, therefore, as we possess, in 
the sun, a substance, a reality, to which certain known effects 
can, without the possibility of doubt, or the fear of error, be 
traced, it would appear true wisdom to bend every effort of 
the mind, and to call in aid all that the power of instruments 
can effect, in order to determine the nature of the solar light. 

Having thus generalised, I now proceed to adduce a few 
particular striking facts, which, after mature reflection, have 
led me to conclude that the sun is the one great principle to 
which all the higher phenomena must finally be referred ; 


° . 
and these facts I shall arrange under the following heads ; —. 


N 3 


182 Electricity of Nature, 


1. The sun is the source of light, which is imparted to the 
earth in beams or rays. This solar light is the origin of the 
colouring principle throughout nature. The fact is proved 
by daily observation upon the effects produced by light upon 
vegetable bodies, and by numberless chemical and prismatic 
phenomena. Magnetic properties are communicated by the 
blue and violet rays. This was noticed by Dr. Morichini of 
Rome; and the fact, as is familiarly known, was established 
by the experiments of Mrs. Somerville ; who covered one half 
of a sewing-needle with paper, and exposed the other half, for 
two hours, to the violet rays, by which the needle acquired 
polarity. 

2. Heat is generated by the rays, and is particularly mani- 
fested in those rays that are most remote from the others 
that evince magnetic powers. Thus, the heating power in- 
creases from the middle of the prismatic spectrum to the red 
ray, and is greatest beyond the visible boundary of that ray. 
These facts were ascertained by Dr. Herschel, and confirmed 
by Sir H. Englefield and Sir Humphry Davy. 

3. The sun’s rays, it should appear, are not the direct 
vehicles of heat; for not only does the temperature of the 
transparent media through which they pass remain unaltered, 
but that of the atmosphere is subject to sudden and various 
mutations, without any assignable cause. ‘The last-named 
fact may be within the recollection of almost every attentive 
observer of the weather; because he must have remarked 
that, in one and the same day, perhaps within the space of 
an hour, there has been an increase or reduction of thermo- 
metric temperature of from 5° to 10°, without any sensible 
alteration in the power and brilliancy of the sun’s rays. 

4, SL:lectricity is originated and made manifest by the solar 
agency. ‘This, perhaps, may be considered a self-evident 
fact, and one proved by the frequent occurrence of thunder 
storms, and of silent evening lightning during very hot wea- 
ther. These phenomena, however, I cannot consider as 
affording, by any means, the most conclusive evidence of the 
electrising agency of the solar rays; for they admit of several 
marked exceptions. In the second and fourth leading sec- 
tions of February and April, in the Domestic Gardener’s 
Manual, I have endeavoured to point out many striking phe- 
nomena, which can scarcely fail to indicate the direct elec 
trical agency of the sun; but these my limits will not now 
permit me to adduce. I shall content myself by observing, 
that if (as was stated by Mr. Ritchie, in the lecture before 
alluded to) the sun may be regarded as “ the visible cause of 
terrestrial magnetism,” a phenomenon which, perhaps, may 


and its Connection with Magnetism. 183 


be produced by “currents of electricity circulating about 
from east to west,” then the conclusion seems inevitable, that 
either the electrical and magnetic fluids are identically one 
in essence, though, perhaps, liable to certain modifications ; 
or, that the electric fluid is derived primarily from the sun, 
and induces the several magnetic phenomena, by an energy 
exerted upon certain substances within the earth’s surface: in 
either case, the sun must be referred to as the prime actuating 
cause. 

Mr. Ritchie’s farther remarks are pertinent to the idea 
above suggested ; for he says, in reference to the questions, 
‘« How are these (electro-magnetic) currents generated ? — 
Are they voltaic or thermo-electric ? — from the constitution 
of our globe, we can scarcely doubt that they belong to the 
latter class. The earth abounds with metalliferous veins, and 
these veins are undoubtedly of different temperatures : con- 
sequently, thermo-electric effects must take place. The rapid 
change in the magnetic equator, when approaching South 
America, renders this supposition highly probable.” (Journal 
of the Royal Institutzon, Aug. 1831, p. 130.) 

5. The sun’s rays, for the most part, strike the surface 
of the earth, and produce the developement of heat, varying 
in intensity according to the then existing state of the atmo- 
spheric medium through which they pass; and, perhaps, 
according to the nature and extent of the electrising processes 
induced within that surface upon which the rays impinge. 
The light thus radiated must be either reflected, absorbed, or 
extinguished. 

That a portion of it is reflected, no one acquainted with 
astronomical facts can entertain a doubt. That another and 
considerable portion is absorbed is proved, almost to a de- 
monstration, by the increase of temperature at a considerable 
depth below the surface of the ground; and by numerous 
electrical and magnetic phenomena. That any portion is 
extinguished or destroyed, is contradicted by the direct ana- 
logy of facts; for all nature affords irrefragable evidence that 
not an iota of her productions ever was or can be lost. 

From the foregoing and many other considerations, I have 
arrived at the conclusion that, as the surface of the earth is 
the grand absorbing medium of the rays of light, the portion 
absorbed, not being extinguished, must inevitably be produc- 
tive of many stupendous phenomena, some of which I shall 
now endeavour cursorily to point out. 

Without entertaining, to its full extent, the theory of Pro- 
fessor Leslie, that the globe is cavernous, its central cavern 
being replete with light, “ Sars with intense refulgence, 

N & 


184: Electricity of Nature, 


and overpowering splendour,” I cannot but suggest, first, that 
much of the ethereal solar light is distributed interstitially 
among the molecular particles of the substances that compose 
our terraqueous globe; that this light is masked or hidden 
till it becomes deranged by some disturbance of the mole- 
cular particles; but, when so deranged, it gives rise to the 
several phenomena termed electrical, which result from fric- 
tion, percussion, or disruption. Hence it may be concluded 
that the attraction of cohesion has its origin in the ethereal 
light that is dispersed throughout all material substances. 

Secondly, that whatever portion of light is not so distributed 
may exert an energy more strictly chemical, in the decompo- 
sition and reproduction of water, the oxidation of metals, the 
developement of gaseous bodies, and the like. It is, as I con- 
ceive, during the induction of these phenomena that the 
electrising process is begun and perfected; and this, perhaps, 
not only by a decomposition or modification of the matter of 
solar light, but by its direct action upon the decomposable 
matters within the earth’s surface; and from this electrising 
process result the separation of the magnetic fluid, and the 
developement of free electricity and heat. May not earth- 
quakes, the eruption of volcanoes, and other stupendous 
convulsions, be referred to chemical or voltaic decomposition 
effected by the agency of absorbed light ? 

My ideas accord (partially, at least) with the suggestion of 
Dr. Hutton, at the close of his article on electricity, in his 
Mathematical Dictionary. * Perhaps,” he observes, ‘‘ we 
may be allowed to extend our views, and consider the sun 
as the fountain of the electric fluid, of the zodiacal light, 
the tails of comets, the aurora borealis, lightning, and artifi- 
cial electricity, and of its various and not dissimilar modifi- 
cations.” 

If I have succeeded in affording evidence of the actual 
existence of one great principle of union, and have shown 
that this principle is the sun, and therefore that it would be 
futile to seek for any other, it will only be required to point 
out the way in which that principle may farther act so as to 
connect all the other great natural phenomena with that of 
gravitation. ‘The “ attraction of gravitation ” is a term that 
is employed by every one who attempts to explain the cause 
of the descent or fall of any body possessing solidity and 
weight. Attraction infers the operation of an agent by which 
bodies are induced to approach to, and come in contact with, 
it. Electrified bodies induce an opposite electrical condition 
in other bodies within the range of their influence; and the 
two are then attracted, the one to the other, in obedience to 


and its Connection with Magnetism. 185 


the law of electrical induction: this is familiarly known to all 
electricians. Now, it appears certain that the agency of in- 
duction is in constant operation, and that no limits can be set 
to the extent of its agency. It moreover appears that the 
spherical form is the one most favourable to the retention of 
the electric fluid; while, on the contrary, points tend to 
produce its rapid dispersion. ‘The earth and moon are of a 
form almost spherical; and there is little doubt that electri- 
city is distributed over their surfaces, and is maintained and 
renewed by the electrising principle of the sun’s rays. If, 
then, the surfaces of the planetary bodies be in an active 
electrical condition, will they not tend mutually to attract 
each other? With these considerations before us, it must be 
reasonable to pause, and enquire whether an agent like elec- 
tricity, so subtle, so powerful, so susceptible of infinite modi- 
fications (the reality of whose existence is undeniable, and the 
nature of whose phenomena admits of absolute demonstration 
by experiment), whether such an agent may not be capable of 
producing all the phenomena which are usually ascribed to 
gravitation; whether it may not govern the movements of, 
and regulate those attractions between, a planet and its satel- 
lites, on which depend the vicissitudes of the seasons, the 
alternations of day and night, and the ebbing and flowing of 
the tides. Electricity is known to exist; it is known to be 
more or less in a state of constant operation: in a word, it is 
a cause producing effects. Gravitation, on the contrary, is a 
conventional term for an effect; certain, indeed, but resulting 
from no ascertained cause. We have, then, to decide, whe- 
ther it be not more philosophical to admit that so tremen- 
dously powerful an agent as electricity is capable of inducing 
all the effects ascribed to gravitation, than to remain satisfied 
with the assumption that bodies gravitate ; solely because, by 
the law of their creation, they tend to fall towards a centre ; 
or to believe, according to some writers, ‘ that every particle 
of matter in nature gravitates or tends towards every other 
particle.’ 

If it be permitted to us to enlarge our views, and to sup- 
pose that the sun’s electrising power operates upon the whole 
planetary system, and establishes all their primary and se- 
condary relations, which act and react one on the other; if, 
moreover, we conceive the probability of a mutual inter- 
change of influences existing between the sun and its planets, 
and that he attracts and receives from them that matter 
which supports and renews the juminous fluid that. composes 
his own rays, how vastly comprehensive will appear the 
mighty plan of operations, a plan by which not even a particle 


186 Reply to Mr. Main’s Question 


of light ever is or shall be ever lost! Comets have, by some, 
been supposed to regulate the electrical relations between the 
sun and his planets; and, by others, to supply the loss which 
the sun sustains by emitting rays of light and heat. I am 
inclined to believe that the agency of induction and attraction 
is universal and complete; that a reciprocal and harmonious 
interchange is for ever going on between the sun and the 
planets; and that the sun itself is the one sole ‘ * great prin- 
ciple’ which operates and connects together all the pheno- 
mena of the material world.’ ” 

I have not hesitated to introduce, in the foregoing paper, 
several passages from the early sections of the Domestic Gar- 
dener’s Manual, with trifling modifications: this the reader 
who is in possession of that work will scarcely fail to dis- 
cover. By thus borrowing, as it were, from myself, I have 
been enabled, without incurring the charge of plagiarism, to 
embody most of the facts which constitute the basis and sub- 
stance of the electrical theory that is impressed forcibly upon 
my mind, as being alone capable of elucidating all the great 
natural phenomena. ‘There is much of the hypothetical, I 
admit, in the view I have taken of the predominating agency 
of absorbed solar light ; but, wherever doubt exists at all, and 
mysterious effects are ecbserved, the actuating machinery of 
which cannot be brought within the power of human percep- 
tion, theory must be allowed; unless, indeed, it be required 
that the powers of the mind remain dormant. ‘The case 
admits of no other alternative. 

He, however, who, while he endeavours modestly to exhibit 
the ideas which are forcibly impressed upon his mind, in the 
hopes of stimulating to scientific research, neither asserts 
dogmatically, nor claims authority to dictate to the faith of 
others, cannot justly be accused of presumption. “ The 
germs of discovery are often found in rational speculations ; ” 
and that hypothesis which is presented to the test of philo- 
sophic investigation may, without arrogant assumption, be 
deemed the pioneer of science. 


Jan. 21. 1833. Ge ET. 


Art. VI. A Reply to Mr. Main’s Question to the Author of the 
“¢ Domestic Gardener's Manual.’ By the Author of the “ Do- 
mestic Gardener’s Manual.” 

Sir, 
I ogsErve, in Vol. VIII. p.652., that there is a paper 
addressing, not one but two distinct questions to me, on 


on the Formation of Organic Structure. 187 


points of great interest in the science of vegetable physio- 
logy, to which I had particularly adverted in an article on 
the sap~-vessels (Vol. VIII. p. 142.). 

As Mr. Main claims my earliest notice, and I very much 
wish to meet his views, I regret that I did not see his com- 
munication until the 18th inst. (Dec. 1832). However, I 
hope I may still be in time for your next publication. If I do 
not greatly mistake, Mr. Main is the gentleman who penned 
the review of the Domestic Gardener ’s Manual, in Vol. VIL. p. 57. 
(as I perceive by the index ; for I have not the number by me). 
The article now before me is written in a style that identifies 
it, to the best of my recollection, with that of the review; and 
I beg to return my best and cordial thanks for the kindly 
spirit which breathes through both one and the other. 

The first question proposed by Mr. Main is grounded upon 
an extract from a letter that I had received from Mr. Knight. 
The hypothesis therein noticed belongs exclusively to that 
gentleman. It is a deduction from his own positive observa- 
tions and experiments: the very expressions quoted are, ver- 
batim, those of Mr. Knight. ‘ The nutriment absorbed 
becomes the true sap or living blood of the plant, by exposure 
to light in the leaf; it descends by the bark, by which the 
matter that forms the layer of alburnum is deposited.” 

I cordially, it is true, acquiesce in this opinion of the origin 
of the alburnous deposit ; still, however, although Mr. Main 
disclaims as inadmissible the answers of any other person but 
myself to his questions, he surely cannot, upon due consider- 
ation, refuse to receive Mr. Knight’s own testimony in support 
of a hypothesis originally his own. I, therefore, must take 
the liberty to state the following question, and respectfully to 
request Mr. Main to afford it hig most serious reflection ; and 
not to stop there, but to make the fact of which it treats the 
subject of close investigation and critical experiment. ‘This 
will not be difficult during the ensuing spring; and the results 
may be fully ascertained in the course of a few months. 

I ask, then, has not Mr. Knight asserted, in the Phzloso- 
phical Transactions, that, having partially detached strips of 
bark of the walnut tree, of several inches’ length, from the 
alburnum, in the spring, he introduced beneath such bark 
two folds of paper, each of which was coated on both sides 
with bees’ wax; so that such strips of bark were placed 
wholly out of contact with the alburnum, or other bark of 
the tree, except at their upper ends. Air and light were 
excluded by a covering of clay till autumn, when as much 
alburnum was deposited upon the paper, along the whole 


188 Reply to Mr. Main’s Question 


extent of the bark, as was deposited by a similar extent of 
bark which retained its natural place and state. 

Now, if the matter of the alburnum was not deposited by 
the bark upon the folds of the paper, will Mr. Main be so 
obliging as to explain by the agency of what body it was de- 
posited, and from whence the substance of it was derived ? 

Perhaps that degree of reflection which is certainly due to 
a fact so interesting as the one I have just presented in the 
form of a question to Mr. Main, willassist him in the removal 
of some of those “ stumbling-blocks” which he alludes to; 
and I now hasten te reply to those enquiries which are more 
immediately directed to myself. Iam asked whether “ it is 
possible that organic structure can be formed out of mere 
fluids ; whether simple or compound, as they are found in the 
root, stem, leaves, flowers, or fruits of plants?” 

Is it to be believed that Mr. Main was serious and in ear- 
nest when he penned this enquiry ? Could he have reflected 
for one moment upon a multiplicity of facts connected with 
the nutriment of plants, that must have come under his 
observation? Without trespassing further, Sir, upon your 
pages, I think I might content myself by referring my querist 
to the paper upon Balsamina horténsis (Vol. VIII. p. 403. to 
4.07.) for an ample and sufficient answer to his question; but, 
perhaps, courtesy requires that I should adduce some other 
facts that will apply directly to it. Before I proceed to do 
so, I must, however, request him to oblige me by re-perusing 
that paper on the balsam: and now, presuming that he has 
so done, I would ask, how, if Mr. Main believes it to be a 
philosophical truth that the roots of plants are incapable of 
imbibing an atom of the most impalpable powders, that they 
cannot absorb particles of matter so inconceivably fine as 
those afforded to water by the solution of a colouring mate- 
rial; how, if he believes these things, he can imagine that any 
substance more solid, or of greater density, than pure water 
can enter into, or be conveyed through, the conducting ves- 
sels of a vegetable body, be they cellular or tubular ? 

But, perhaps, it may be argued that colouring matters have 
unquestionably been observed to pass into the vegetable 
structure. In fact, I myself have proved that they can be 
taken up by a variety of vegetable subjects; but these have 
always been mutilations, not perfect plants in a healthy and 
growing state. However, without dwelling further upon that 
which I noticed particularly in another place, I proceed to 
solicit Mr. Main’s attention to a striking fact, that bears upon 
the subject of his enquiry. Any plant growing in a pot 
might serve my present purpose; but I select the vine, because 


on the Formation of Organic Structure. 189 


it is the one which, for a short period previous to the expan- 
sion of the leaves, is most inclined to bleed. Such a plant 
now comes within my immediate observation. In October, 
this vine was in a torpid condition; it was then removed 
from a small pot into a large one, containing a rich soil, 
composed of chopped turf, the earthy part of which was a 
sandy loam. ‘This turf was manured with half-decayed dung 
of poultry, and rendered more light by a small portion of lime 
rubbish. The vine was placed in a house where the aver age 
temperature is, and has been for the last six weeks, abont 
55°. The soil is kept moist to saturation with rain water ; 
insomuch, that a pan under the pot has generally more or 
less of water that has filtrated into it. Once a week this vine 
receives, in addition, a pint or more of soap-suds ; or manured 
water, from the drainings of a cow-stall, diluted with an 
equal part of water. This liquor consists of urine, holding 
some cow manure in solution: the former centains much 
ammonia, and the latter a good deal of bile, besides a variety 
of saline and hydro-carbonous compounds. It is not, how- 
ever, my present object to investigate these matters chemi- 
cally, but simply to evince that, notwithstanding the richness 
of the compost soil in the first instance, and the occasional 
application of a stimulating liquid, the water which perco- 
lates the mould into the pan appears to be deprived of all 
soluble matters whatsoever, and it is colourless, void of taste, 
odour, and, indeed, of any quality that could lead one to 
suppose that such highly fetid and sapid ingredients are 
repeatedly superadded to the soil. 

Now, what conclusion can be drawn from the foregoing 
statement of simple facts? None cther, surely, than this: 
that not only all the soluble and decomposable animal and 

vegetable matters that were originally introduced, but every 
separable part of whatever has subsequently been added to 
the soil, are arrested by it, and retained in close contact with 
the roots of the plant. So situated, if solid matters could by 
any possibility be taken up by, or propelled into, the absorb- 
ent vessels of the roots, they should be found in the ascending 
sap of the plant: and yet, when I had occasion to prune off a 
projecting piece of wood just above an expanding bud of the 
leader, the juice that exuded in drops was as limpid, as 
colourless, and nearly as insipid, as pure water itself. ‘The 
leading buds have at this period produced two fine strong 
shoots, with perfect and healthy foliage: and, thus, nearly 
4. ft. in length of oxy-hydro-carbonous solid substances have 
been added to the plant, by the agency (as far, at least, as 


190 Reply to Mr. Main’s Question 


the roots have been concerned) of a bland watery fluid; 
almost, if not entirely, free from taste, odour, or colour. 

This vine, then, has derived its support, and produced its 
leaves and shoots, either, first, from the ascending fluid and 
insipid sap; or, secondly, from the still more fluid (that is, 
gaseous) matters of the aerial medium surrounding its stem, 
buds, and leaves; or, thirdly, by the’ assimilation of sub- 
stances (inherent or imbibed) by the mysterious agency of 
the vital principle. The conclusion, therefore, seems inevi- 
table, that all the vegetable solids are, without one single 
exception, the product of fluids or gases, or of both; attracted 
and propelled through the appropriate organic processes of 
the roots and leaves; and that the compound fluids, “as they 
are found in the roots, stem, leaves, flowers, or fruits,” result 
from the operation of an electro-chemical agency within the 
cellular tissue, that is excited by the influence of solar light: 
which light is the true, natural, electric, elementary fire; the 
primary exciting agent; the chief actuator of all the pheno- 
mena of secondary light; of heat, vegetable growth, and, 
perhaps, of the vital principle itself: 

The foregoing examples from the vegetable creation may 
suffice. I could, however, multiply them to almost any 
extent; and, were I to apply to chemical facts, I might swell 
the catalogue to such an immeasurable length, that you, Sir, 
as Conductor, might justly exclaim, “ What? will the line 
extend to the crack of doom?” I might adduce the de- 
composition and re-formation of water, those of carbon, 
carbonic acid, of sulphur and sulphuric acid; the solution 
of metals, and their diffusion through a measureless bulk of 
water; the conversion of mercury into vapour, and its dis- 
persion into thin air; the astonishing combustion of the 
metal potassium, when in contact with water, and the conse- 
quent solution of its alkaline product therein. ‘These, and 
hundreds of other chemical phenomena, might be cited, in 
order to prove that solids may be, and are, daily and hourly, 
formed out of fluids. What is more (and it is of vast con- 
sequence to the argument), these chemical facts would afford 
me a very powerful weapon, wherewith I could turn round 
upon Mr. Main, and challenge him to deny, or even disbelieve, 
that fluids are formed out of solids. Now, if there be any 
force in analogy, it cannot, surely, be more unreasonable to 
conclude that solids may be produced from fluids, than that 
liquids, and even gases, may be formed and evolved from 
solids ! 

I now come to Mr. Main’s final question. “ If,” he asks, 
‘‘ such a process of accretion be possible, I would wish to be 


on the Formation of Organic Structure. 191 


informed how it takes place, and particularly whether there 
be any similar process or instance, in the whole range of ani- 
mated nature, with which it can be compared ?” 

Mr. Main cannot surely be ignorant that the whole solid 
matter which, during their growth, is added to the bodies of 
animals, is secreted from their fluid blood; and that, when 
a bone is broken, or a part of it taken away, in any animal 
in a healthy state, the necessary amount of specific matter 
to repair the injury done is secreted and deposited where 
wanted. Had Mr. Main consulted the works of many emi- 
nent physiologists of Germany and France, and, indeed, of 
every part of the world, he, perhaps, would have been con- 
vinced that they do not contain a single sentence expressive 
of a doubt that the true sap of plants possesses, relatively to 
the functions of vegetable life, powers very closely analogous 
to those of the blood of animals. 

Perhaps he might object, that the red blood of animals is a 
heavy compound fluid, abounding with coagulable matters. 
Agreed. But what then? Does not blood, in its fluid state, 
afford another example of the conversion of the hardest and 
most intractabie substances, as grain, bone, cartilage, muscle, 
&c., into a liquid? But again; what has colour to do with the 
question? The circulating fluid is white, or devoid of tint, 
in some species, and yet retains the name of blood. The 
absence or presence of colour will not destroy the analogy ; 
since the proper juice of plants varies, in that particular, 
more than the blood does. Fishes have red blood; yet they 
float in an aqueous medium, which contains no colouring or 
coagulable material. But some fishes devour their fellows. 
True. This fact can, however, be scarcely brought for- 
ward in the instance of fish kept for months and years ina 
glass globe, and supported by repeated additions of fresh 
and pure water only. 

Mr. Main has asked, how such and such effects can be 
produced; how the process of accretion takes place? The 
answer is obvious: they originate in vital action and the 
chemical powers of life, whose modes of operation are placed 
beyond the range of human investigation. 

We witness these effects; so we do those of millions of 
astounding natural phenomena. ‘Thus, the solar rays strike 
the earth; heat is evolved ; evaporation is occasioned; clouds 
are formed; and the solar light, that had been absorbed and 
masked (not quenched) within the earth’s surface, and amidst 
the congregated volume of vapours, keeping their atoms 
apart and in a state of repulsion, is suddenly reproduced, 
revealed in flashes of ethereal fire; while deluges of rain suc- 


192 Remarks on Mr, Main’s Question. 


ceed, and afford evidence of the coalescence of the watery 
vapours; and, perhaps, also of the deflagration of floating 
masses of oxygen and hydrogen, the elements of water. These 
mighty operations astonish and overcome us; but they are 
neither more nor less wonderful than the developement of a 
leaf, the protrusion of a bristle, or the conversion of the fluid 
cambium into the cellular tissue of the alburnum. Where all 
is wonder, we can only trace and reason upon second causes ; 
but if we go beyond, and attempt to penetrate into the mys- 
teries of creation, our senses become bewildered, and the clue 
is lost. Here we must be contented to pause, and to confess 
that such knowledge “ is too wonderful for us; we cannot 
attain unto it.” 

Dec. 25. 1832. Gedo. 


Arr. VII. Remarks on Mr. Main’s Question to the Author of the 
“© Domestic Gardener's Manual.” By JosEpH Haywarp, Esq., 
Author of the “ Science of Horticulture,” &c. 


Sir, 

Your correspondent, Mr. Main asks (Vol. VIII. p. 652.), 
‘‘ Is it possible that organic structure can be formed out of 
mere fluids, whether simple or compound, as they are formed 
in the root, stem, leaves, flowers, or fruit of plants? If such 
a process of accretion be possible, I would wish to be in- 
formed how it takes place; and particularly, whether there 
be any similar process or instance, in the whole range of ani- 
mated nature, with which it can be compared?” Now, as 
it would be ridiculous to offer an answer that Mr. Main 
cannot understand, allow me to ask him, by what means does 
he suppose his bones and other organic structure were enlarged 
during the five or six months following his birth, otherwise 
than by the accretion produced from his mother’s milk? Or, 
if this be not thought a fluid sufficiently simple to meet his 
question, let him look into his tea kettle, and inform himself 
whence the accretion which forms the lining of stone which 
he will there find, if not from the water which is boiled in it? 
And if this bé not a liquid sufficiently limpid, let him try 
Sir H. Davy’s experiment of procuring pure carbon, by 
burning spirit of wine in a glass tube. But if he wishes to 
delve into those hidden secrets of nature (which never have 
been, and most probably never will be, made known to man, at 
least in his corporeal existence), that secret, or those secrets, 
by which the living principle is formed and determined in its 
action, and to become a second Prometheus, I do not know 
how he is to obtain this power, unless he will do as Goethe 


Liconomical Mode of building. 193 


made his Dr. Faust do for the same purpose, sell himself to 
the devil. I believe, Sir, the true reason why our ingenious 
philosophers have not succeeded in establishing more perfect 
systems of gardening and farming is, that they devoted them- 
selves so much to the discovery of the process by which 
nature forms the organs of plants and animals, as the albur- 
num, the leaves, the nerves, the brains, &c., as to have over- 
looked the uses for which they were made. 
IT am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Radipole, Feb. 7.1833. JosEpH Haywarp. 


Art. VIII. An Economical Mode of building Garden Walls, Sheds, 
and other Garden and Agricultural Structures. By R. Mauuer, 
Esq. 


Sirs 

THoueu the principal object of this paper is to point out 
a cheap and durable method of constructing garden walls, I 
have yet incidentally mixed up with it various hints on con- 
structing other country buildings of different kinds; garden 
sheds, tool houses, mushroom houses, men’s lodges, and gar- 
deners’ houses, being as generally required as walls. 

Buildings, one or two stories high, may be more cheap] 
erected with cast-iron uprights, and the spaces between filled 
up with any kind of durable materials, say bricks made for 
the purpose, sandstone flags, slates, or timber, according to 
locality. In this way buildings of great cheapness, occupying 
little useless space in thickness of walls, and incapable of 
prostration by any hurricane, could be erected, and, more- 
over, would be portable, if that were considered an advan- 

tage. The section of each iron upright should be as in fg. 42. 
Supposing those placed in the plane of the walls 
ue of the intended edifice (the only foundation for 
which need be the blocks of stone for them to rest 
on), the spaces between might be filled up by bricks, 
made as in fig. 43., of which a b is a perspective 
view, c a cross section, and d a portion of the cast- 
iron upright, with the brick placed in its grooves. 
These bricks lock into one another, and thus may be put 
together and stand without cement; or they might be merely 
dipped into thin grout before laying together, and thus their 
staunchness insured. 

Rabbeted bricks of this kind would be as easily made as 

Vou. IX, — No. 43. o 


194 Economical Mode of building 


43, 


SN 


common ones, and the rabbet, like that of a sash, would 
prevent water from flowing through. A 4-inch wall, built in 
this way, with posts at every four feet, would be as stiff and 
strong as an ordinary 14-inch wall, and, excluding the original 
expense of brickmaking and 

44, foundery apparatus, would 

not cost above one third the 

expense. The bottom course 

of bricks should be laid 

across, under the surface, as 

in fig. 44., to form a broad 

foundation. The general 

appearance of such a wall 

would be as in fg. 45. Win- 

dows might obviously be made, with perfect facility, of any 
required size, and 

45 cast-iron frames and 

sashes are the cheap- 
est of all kinds. 
Mr. Frost’s ingenious 
earthen tubes might 
be used for filling the 
interspaces of these 
walls. When slates, 
boards, or flags are 
used, the breadth of 
the rabbet in the iron post may be considerably less, say an 
inch, as in fig. 46. Slate houses of great strength and dura- 
bility might be made by filling up the spaces with two 
surfaces of slate, distant three or four inches, and 


+ filling up the interval with gravel and grout, or 


46 


rammed puddle, as in fg. 47., in which @ is the iron 
upright, 6 the slates, and ¢ the puddle or filling-up 
matter. Slates thus placed, from the inertia and in- 
elasticity of the mass, would almost resist fracture; a blow 


Garden and Agricuitural Structures. 195 


47 g 


—WO3OOO EE 


of a hammer would only punch a hole through, without shat- 
tering the slate. In Wales and Cumberland, slates; in the 
iron districts, and in London, bricks; in Yorkshire, Lan- 
cashire, and Scotland, sandstone flags; and, in America, timber, 
would be the cheapest filling materials. 

Slate walls made in the way last mentioned, with the addi- 
tion of eyes cast to one side of the iron uprights for the wires 
of a trellis, and the slates painted black, would appear to be 
the best garden walls that could be erected. 

They could harbour no insects, would not 

aS be eaten out by nailing, would lock better than 

brick walls, and the tops of the uprights be 

available for rolling-blinds, &c., for protec- 
tion. 

Perhaps the deep violet colour of the slates 
would be the best possible for garden walls, 
which I deduce from some recent observations 
on the rays of light and heat. 

These slate walls might be hollow, viz. filled 
with rounded pebbles and nothing else, and 
thus be heated by steam occasionally, or be 
entirely hollow, with a double rabbet, and per- 
forated uprightly, and become long smoke flues 
of great depth and thinness, as in fig. 48., in 
which d is the side view of an upright, and 
é a cross section or plan. 

There is no difficulty in procuring slates with 
square-sawn edges, 4 ft. square or more; and, 
if the trees were tied with twine, or spun yarn 
boiled in Indian-rubber varnish, or even in oil,. 
L a great saving in nails, shreds, labour, and 
7A ‘repairs of walls would accrue. 

Walls with a southern aspect might’ have 
the back side, viz. the north aspect, painted 
white, or covered with straw matting; or ivy 
might be permitted to grow on them, to pre- 


vent the radiation of heat on that side. The roots of trees 
Oo 2 


196 Economical Mode of building 


planted against such walls would have less interruption than 
against brick walls built in the common or even the best way, 
viz. upon piers. 

The joints of the slates might be put together with tar, 
which would prevent insects from ever touching them, and 
make them steam or smoke staunch. - 

On the top they should have a cast-iron coping, locking 
into the top of the uprights, which might either be let into 
blocks of stone at the bottom, or cast with a broad base to 
bury in the earth. ‘The bottom row of slates should rest 
upon a range of bricks, or be let into a cast-iron bar, i. e. an 
upright laid flat, and not perforated, into which they could be 
rabbeted. Where sheds or houses of any kind were erected 
with these walls, the uprights might be fastened to the blocks 
of stone by three eyes cast in a bottom flanch, or in three 
tugs (ears), through each of which a large nail should be 
driven into a plug of hard wood driven into a jumper hole 
in the block of stone, as in jig. 49., in which a is the section, 
and 6 the plan. Two lugs, ¢ ¢ in jig. 50., would in general 


WIA 
VC 
Ud 


Y A 
|| 
7 


Ws 
Y 
LLL. 


be all that would be necessary, as controlling the motion of 
the post in the only direction possible, viz. perpendicular to 
the plane of the wall. This is the way in which railway chains 
are fastened down, and it is an exceedingly effective and cheap 
mode. 

Two striking applications of such walls as these occur to 
me: first, that houses so built, having walls only one third 
the usual thickness, will have the advantage of larger apart- 
ments on a given ground plan, than those built in the ordmary 
way; an advantage not slight when ground is dear, as in large 
cities: and, secondly, that, by means of these cast-iron ties 
and uprights, walls of any magnitude may be built of such 
rigidity, that when built upon a bad foundation, even upon 
soft mud, they will subside em masse, and without shakes 
or cracks. For this purpose it is only necessary to divide the 


Garden and Agricultural Structures. 197 


spaces between the uprights into primary triangles, as in fig. 51., 


51 


which may be from 10 to 15 ft. high; jig. 52., which may be 


52 


be from 20 to 30 ft. 
high; or jig. 53., 
which may be from 
30 to 50 ft. high. 
These walls might 
be applied to con- 
structing docks, 
piers, and large 
edifices, in marshy 
ground or sand, of 
any breadth. Had 
thearsenal buildings 
at Woolwich been 


so built, even for the bottom story alone, they would not now 
be falling piecemeal asunder, and presenting to foreigners 


coming up the Thames so disgraceful a specimen of British 


engineering. 


Perhaps the simplest edifice capable of being made in this 


0 3 


198 Economical Mode of building 


way would be a garden shed, for tools or other such things. 
The uprights should be formed of 'T iron (so called), which is 
rolled for boiler-making, iron boat-building, &c. ; the roof of 
straw, hay, pease or bean stalk, or faggot, stacks, supported on 
light castings, made to fit the upper extremities of the T iron 
uprights, as in fig. 54.; and the lower extremities of the up- 


rights either driven into blocks of wood sunk in the ground, 
or wedged into holes 
punched in lumps 
of stone. ‘The ap- 
pearance of such 
sheds would be as 
in jigs. 55, 56. and 
BY 


The circular form 
(7g. 57.) would be 
as easily built as a 
rectangular one, and 
would have great 
stability. When only pease-straw, or other litter, was stacked, 


Garden and Agricultural Structures. 199 


pigs, calves, &c., might 
be kept in such struc- 
tures without injuring 
them. The circular 
form would in this case 
be the best. 

But a more perfect 
structure of this kind 
may be erected, having 
a permanent roof, yet 
capable of sustaining, 
at any time, a stack of any kind; and I see no reason why 
all garden sheds, or even the buildings (or most of them) of 
a farmery, might not be thus flat-roofed, and so, in the latter 
case, answer the double purpose of buildings and rick-stands. 

Supposing the walls constructed of cast-iron uprights se- 
cured firmly to foundation stones, and the intervals filled in 
any of the before-mentioned ways; the roof is to be con- 
structed by laying light cast-iron beams or bearers, from one 
upright to another opposite it, and arching the interspaces with 
4-inch arches. By these means the building will always be 
secured from the weather, whether the rick above be removed 
in part or not. Iron beams have hitherto been constructed 
generally from formule which make them much heavier than 
necessary. A late writer on this subject, Mr. Katon Hodgs- 
kinson, has shown, and verified by experiment (vide Trans. 
Manchester Phil. Soc.), that, in place of the usual form and 
proportions of cast-iron beams, viz. the top and bottom ribs 
nearly alike in scantling, as in jig. 58., the bottom rib should 
be to the top rib in the ratio of 6 to 1; that 

58 _ the vertical or mid rib may be cast as thin as will 


L insure a perfect casting; that the strength of such 


beams is inversely as the length, and directly as 

the depth, and not as the square of the depth, as 

hitherto supposed; and that the bottom rib should 

be formed into a parabola on its edges, 1erminating a few inches 
within the bearings. 

The formula for the determination of the ultimate strength 

and scantling of such beams, given by Mr. Hodgskinson, is : 


Ww — cad 


square inches of the mid section of the bottom rib; d the 
depth of the beam there ; J the length of the beam in inches; 
and c a constant quantity deduced from experiment, equal, for 
beams cast on their sides, to 24; and for those cast vertical, 
to 25. 


; where W is the breaking weight; a the area in, 


0 4 


200 Economical Mode of building 


The form, then, of these beams is somewhat as in jig. 59. ; 


in which a is the side view, 0 the cross section, and c the plan 
of the bottom rib. 

I have particularly mentioned these beams, from their 
novelty of form, and their importance, as saving nearly one 
fourth part of iron; in other words, 75 tons of iron will bear 
as much in this form as 100 tons in the common ones. 

Such beams, then, suited to the weight to be borne, and 
the length of the beam, &c., would support 4-inch_ brick 
arches; the haunches of which should not be filled up, but 
spandril walls built across, at certain intervals, level with the 
crowns of the arches, and there built open. Thus ventilation 
would be permitted between the rick and its support; and, 
when the roof was uncovered, would conduct the rain off. 

Such arches should be turned in summer, and two or three 
coats of coal tar given to the extrados surface, by which they 
will be made watertight. I have constructed many such roofs 
as these, for various purposes, and they have been found to be 
light, cheap, strong, and staunch. 

All buildings thus constructed would obviously be fire- 
proof, and would last an indefinite length of time. The 
appearance of a tool-house so constructed will be as in fg. 60. 

Sheds of this kind may be used for storing any garden or 
field produce, however damp: no matter what is stacked 
above, as no evaporation will permeate the roof. 

The shorter the bearings of the beams of the roof (I call 
them beams, although, in most instances, they would be very 
slender), the greater will obviously be the saving of metal : for 
most purposes, 7 ft. or 8 ft. from post to post will be sufficient. 

The appearance of such buildings might be much improved 
by a kind of cornice of two projecting courses of bricks 
round the tops of the walls. Corrugated iron might also be 
used for such flat roofs, arranged in ridges or arches from 
beam to beam; and the upper ribs of the beams might be 
hollowed to carry off the rain. 

So much for these roofs and walls. All I have written 


Garden and Agricultural Structures. 201 


about them you will consider more as hints to work upon, 
than as any thing more valuable. 

Tam, Sir, yours, &c. 
94. Capel Street, Dublin, Dec. 1832. Rogpert Maret. 


SINCE we received the above communication, Mr. Mallet 
has sent us another (which we have forwarded to the Me- 
chanics’ Magazine); by which we find that, to his numerous 
other inventions, he has just added a most beautiful and most 
important one, viz. that of splitting all stones that can be 
separated into laminze, by the application of male and female 
screws, instead of blasting, as heretofore, with gunpowder. 
The process is as follows : — Jumper holes are formed in the 
direction of the proposed fracture, as at present; but, instead 
of filling them with gunpowder, a split female screw is inserted 
in each hole, and the fracture is effected by the insertion of 
conical male screws. ‘The success of this mode was proved 
before the Commissioners of Public Works at Dublin; and 
the advantages which would result from it, if it were gene- 
rally adopted, are so great as scarcely to be foreseen. Not 
only all risk of accident from the blasts would be avoided, but 
the operation would be performed more cheaply, and, from its 
slowness, incomparably better. What can be clumsier than 
separating slate or other rock, for useful purposes, in such 
a manner as to reduce at least half of it to useless fragments ? 
We congratulate our esteemed friend Mr. Mallet on his 
having made so important a discovery. We recommend our 


202 Reply to Remarks on Mr. Perkins’s 


readers to refer to the article, which will be found in the 
Mechanics’ Magazine, vol. xviil.; and which will be read by 
all friends of humanity, and by all owners of quarries, and 
coal or other mines, with intense interest. — Cond. 


Art. IX. Reply to some Remarks made by Mr. Main and the Con- 
ductor on Mr. Perkins’s Mode of heating by hot Water. By A. 
M. Perkins, Esq. 

Sir, . 

I Bec, without preface, to answer your correspondent Mr. 
Main (p. 34.), by stating certain facts. 

The first objection which I shall notice is, that, in conse- 
quence of the extreme smallness of the tubes, and very small 
quantity of water, the apparatus cannot have that equality of 
heat so desirable during night, when the fire is most likely to 
be neglected. 

I shall answer this objection by referring to the specification 
of my patent, which describes a furnace of fire-brick, so con- 
structed as to contain sufficient fuel for any specified time ; 
and so capable of regulation, that the most equal temperature 
may be maintained for any number of hours required. 

The apparatus which I first erected was at the villa of 
J. Horsley Palmer, Esq., at Fulham. ‘This gentleman very 
liberally tried the first experiment on his own hot-house ; 
and has, with equal liberality, allowed me to make use of his 
name to promote the spread of the invention. I therefore 
copy from his own memoranda, which he gave me at the 
time, a table that shows how completely the equality of heat 
was maintained in the hot-house for eight days and nights. 
A Sixe’s differential thermometer was set at nine o’clock every 
night, and examined at nine o’clock the following morning ; 
the fire was also made up, and not touched during the twelve 
hours. ‘The result was as follows: — 


1832 _ Temperature _ Temperature ; 
. in the open air. in the hot-house. Difference. 
March 20. - 47° - - 63° - - 16° 
21, ‘= 45 - = 63 - - 18 
223) Ge 43 - - 63 - - 20 
23. - 38 = - 63 ~ - 25 
24, = 34 - = 63 - - 29 
Boy 38 - - 63 - - 25 
26. = 37 - - 64 - - 27 
Chee Ia 38 - - 65 - - 27 


—_— 


Average difference 233 


Mode of heating by hot Water. 203 


This table shows an average heat of about 23°; consuming, 
in the eight days, only 12 bushels of cinders, which cost 11s. 
per chaldron: being 3s. 8d. for the eight days, or 53d. for 
each twenty-four hours. Another experiment was made 
just previously to the above, and the following was the re- 
sult : — From the 4th of March to the 19th, inclusive, being 
16 days, the average heat was 23°, and 18 bushels of cinders 
were consumed ; which is a fraction more than 4d. per day. 

The second objection is that which you state yourself as 
likely to occur; viz. that, after a time, the tubes will become 
lined with deposit, and difficult to heat. ‘This I can also 
prove to be erroneous, as far as it is applicable to my appa- 
ratus, from reason and fact. ‘The reason that my apparatus 
is not likely to fill up is simply this: that its principle of 
being kept closed in all its parts, so that no evaporation can 
take place, is diametrically opposed to the cause of deposit. 
This is strongly exemplified when any portion of water 
escapes through an imperfect joint; for, if the tube be hot 
enough to evaporate the water, the depesit will be precipitated 
on the outside of the tube; showing clearly that the lime or 
other matter which is in the water is held in solution until it 
escapes to the outside. In fact, we have circulated, for months, 
water completely saturated with salt, without any deposit 
being formed. Another fact, which I will state, will, perhaps, 
serve to remove your doubts, if any remain after the above 
explanation. I erected, in the show-room of Messrs. Ive 
and Burbidge, Fleet Street, last winter, an apparatus, con- 
sisting of 150 ft. of tubing, of the dimensions of only one 
fourth of an inch internal diameter, which has been at work 
ever since, without the least appearance of deterioration, 
either from oxidation, sediment, or otherwise. Were it 
necessary, I could mention many other instances; but I shail 
content myself with one. 

One of Mr. Palmer’s vineries contains an apparatus of 
4.00 ft., of three-quarter tubing, which was kept in operation 
last winter for the purpose of forcing grapes. At the end of 
the winter we opened it, and found that not a drop of water 
had evaporated or disappeared in any way; and, upon wash- 
ing it out, the water was as clear as when putin. I should 
observe here, that the apparatus was worked a few days before 
commencing to force; and that, then, all the oil and other 
matters, which necessarily adhere to the tubes during their 
manufacture, being taken up by the water, it was drawn off, 
and the pipes were washed out thoroughly by a common gar- 
den engine, in order that the experiment might be complete. 

The third objection is, that the coil of tubes in the furnace, 


204 Reply to Remarks on Mr. Perkins’s 


from their extreme smallness, must soon burn out; and the 
reason given is, that all tubular boilers heretofore have been 
liable to that objection. I will state the causes which occa- 
sion this effect, and then show why my apparatus is not liable 
to it. 

The cause of the tubular boilers upon the evaporating and 
open-cistern systems burning out, is the want of some means 
of keeping the water in contact with the tubes which are 
exposed to the immediate action of the fire; for if the tubes 
have nothing but the weight of water and of the atmosphere 
to press upon them, the water will be driven out of the tubes 
by the superior tendency of the fire, when it burns with 
intensity, acting upon the tubes to repel it: and, thus, every 
every time the fire is brisk, the tubes get red hot, and very 
soon burn cut. Now, my invention directly meets this 
defective point ; for, as the apparatus is closed in all parts, no 
sudden heat can overpower the tendency of the water to cir- 
culate in contact with the tubes; for, if the heat is accelerated 
sufficiently to cause a tendency of the water to fly off, it meets 
with a reaction just equal to its action; and, therefore, it 
counteracts that tendency of the repellent power of heat in 
the same proportion. Thus, that which is a fatal objection to 
all tubular boilers with open reservoirs is to my system one 
of its greatest advantages; for it causes the heat to circulate 
more rapidly, and, consequently, to a greater distance, than 
can be done by any other system. 

The fourth, and most serious, objection urged against my 
system is the liability of the pipes to burst. This I will meet 
openly and fairly ; and I think I can prove that it is less liable 
to serious accident than the open-cistern system with a close 
boiler. I could mention a great number of facts respecting 
accidents from the open system; and one object of my im- 
provement was to remedy such accidents. But one strong 
illustration, which I shall subjoin, will be sufficient to show 
that such an accident may occur even with an open cistern. 
I refer you to the letter of Mr. Carpmael, Patent Agent of the 
Patent Office, Lincoln’s Inn. From this gentleman’s letter, 
and the accompanying diagram, you will perceive how he 
exploded a boiler with an open reservoir, and the reason 
why it may and does often occur; the effect taking place 
upon the same principle on which low-pressure boilers are 
exploded. ‘The means which my apparatus possesses of 
obviating this defect is, the power I have of making the tubes 
strong enough to resist any possible pressure. For instance, 
the present tubes which I make are proved to bear 3000 lbs. 
to the square inch: and when it is considered that, to acquire — 


Mode of heating by hot Water. 205 


300 degrees of heat, it is only necessary to resist a pressure 
of 60 lbs. or 70 lbs. to the square inch, it must be evident 
that there is sufficient room allowed for any thing extraordi- 
nary in the way of pressure. All the care that is necessary 
to make my apparatus perfectly secure against such accidents 
is, to prove it with a common hydraulic pump the last thing 
before setting it to work. 

As some of my pipes have burst, and one, in particular, at 
the Guardian Fire Office, I think it right to explain how 
that occurred. When my apparatus was first erected in that 
office, which was last winter, the building was not finished ; 
and the workmen, being anxious to dry the walls of the new 
building, set the apparatus at work before it was proved: and 
as it is almost impossible, in 1000 ft. of pipe, to make every 
thing perfect at first, so it was in this case; for, in giving the 
fire an unusual draught, the heat of the pipes was increased to 
an unprecedented extent; and the consequence was, that a 
pipe split in one of the empty rooms, and made a slit in the 
seam of the pipe about 6in. long, and an eighth of an inch 
wide. Another pipe was immediately put in, and the ap- 
paratus proved: it has been at work ever since, to the perfect 
satisfaction of the committee. 

This defect would be a serious evil, if I had not the means 
of remedying it by using stronger tubes, and having all my 
apparatus proved (previously to using) by the hydraulic press. 

So confident am I now of the perfect safety of my appara- 
tus, that I am ready to trust its erection to gardeners them- 
selves; and have made arrangements for sending, to any part 
of the country, coils and tubes, with ample printed directions 
for erecting them, and managing them afterwards. This will 
reduce the cost of a hot-water apparatus to its minimum. 

. Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 

21. Great Coram Street, Russell Square, A. M. Perkins. 
Feb. 3. 1833. 


Tuer above is a most important communication ; and we are 
sincerely glad that the doubts which we threw out, in the note 
alluded to by Mr. Perkins, have elicited from that gentleman 
arguments so satisfactory, in proof of the fact that, as it is 
impossible for any deposit of matter held in solution by water 
to take place without evaporation, none can be deposited in 
his hermetically sealed tubes. — Cond. 

The following is the letter referred to by Mr. Perkins, and 
addressed to him by Mr. Carpmael : — 

** Dear Sir, — In answer to your enquiries respecting my 
having burst a boiler about two years ago, I now send you a 


206 Bursting of an open Boiler. 


sketch ( fg. 61.) of the apparatus which was used ; the object 
being to heat a small room. In the figure, @ is an outer, 


HOSA T Ted oh Wy hi ue See Cea 


{ 
h 
) 
’ 
| 


| 


f 

{ 

N 

N 

N 

Ny 
TM” 


i 


\ 
N 
N 
N 
NY) 
N 
N 
SANK 


Hpbi ue 


=) 


HO an aa 


TES 
T 


NNW GHAR NUE OULU NTU ATT 
SAINUN 


TAA NIN |S 
SS 


SSNVNNNUUNNG TUN NWO ALS G00 08000 LNA O UNNI U UNLUN UREN NSN 
Vyly 
x 


AAW 


i sONSIRIS USE USO UINNNSNUNOUN N HH N H T E 
, 


WAM AUH TANS GNU 0000000 


 SAMASNSUNNGA SAAN USSD SSIS NOUS ES OOUOSNO0O 0000000000000 NNNNNTN 


| 


ZZ 


el ZL 


6 an inner, vessel, leaving a space (c) between them, to be 
filled with water; dis the tube by which the water passes 
from the boiler (e) into the space (c); and f is the pipe by 
which the water returns to the boiler. By this description, 
and the course pointed out by the arrows, you will readily 
perceive the manner of the circulation. The vessel a6 was to 
have a cover, as shown by the dotted lines; but, as the cover 
was not on at the time of the explosion, it may be put out of 
view in respect to your object. The apparatus had been up 
some days; and I was standing alongside of it, watching the 
circulation, when suddenly the water rose nearly to the top 
of the vessel (ab), showing that the boiler must have been 
emptied of all the water; and suddenly a slight explosion 
took place at the flanch at the top of the boiler, and a large 
body of steam issued from the boiler for some time; when, 


Heating by the Circulation of Oil. 207 


having damped off the draught, and thereby cooled the heat of 
the boiler, the water descended again into it, and flowed 
copiously. 

‘“‘ The only explanation I can give you of the cause of this 
accident is, that the fire-grate was considerably too large, the 
flue having a great draught ; and the man had made a fire more 
than three times as large as was necessary. ‘The consequence 
was, that the great heat thus produced generated steam faster 
than it was carried off by the tube d, and thus displaced the 
water from the boiler. This will explain the rising of the 
water in the vessel a6: and then, I conceive, asmall quantity 
of water became suddenly converted into steam, and produced 
the explosion which opened the rivets. 

“ T am, Sir, yours, &c. 
“¢ W. CarpMAEL, Engineer. 
“4. Old Square, Lincoln’s Inn, London, 
Feb. 1833.” 


Art. X. Notice of a Method of heating by the Circulation of hot 
Oil, instead of hot Water, for which a Patent has been taken out 
by Mr. W. D. Holmes; and also of Dr. Ure’s Method of em- 
ploying Muriate of Lime as a Medium for communicating Heat. 
By the ConpucTor. 


Our readers may have observed, by our advertising sheet, 
that Mr. Holmes is employed in heating hot-houses and other 
buildings by hot water; and that he refers to a number of 
dwelling-houses, and to the hot-houses of Messrs. Allen and 
Rogers, in their nursery, Eaton Square, Pimlico, as specimens 
of his work. We have examined the hot-water pipes on the 
premises of Messrs. Allen and Rogers, and find that they 
answer as well as those of Messrs. Walker, and others, who 
heat on the same plan, viz. that of a close boiler. Mr. 
Holmes, we find, heats his water in cast-iron tubes, some- 
what in the manner of Chabannes and Mr. Weeks. 

The object of the present notice is to call the attention of 
gardeners to the principle of heating by the circulation of 
fluids which boil at a higher temperature than water; and 
which, of course, can convey a higher degree of heat to a 
greater distance than can be done by water in open vessels or 
tubes. Mr. Holmes proposes to employ oil: an idea which 
was first, we believe, suggested by the late Mr.Tredgold. 

The mode of circulating oil differs in nothing from that of 
circulating water; but oi! differs in this, that, at a certain 
temperature, it becomes carbonised, and in that state is most 


208 Construction of Fountains for Gardens. 


liable to ignite. We consider it, therefore, to be an extremely 
dangerous fluid to employ as a medium for conveying heat. 
We recollect, some years ago, an attempt was made to boil 
sugar by heated oil; when an alarming explosion took place, 
that was noticed, at the time, in all the newspapers. Were it 
not for this danger, oil would, no doubt, answer admirably, 
both for boiling sugar and heating bakers’ ovens; because it 
will convey, in an open vessel, from 300° to 400° or upwards 
of heat. 

Mr. Holmes informs us that he has only, as yet, heated 
one small oven in this manner, which answered perfectly. It 
was not in operation on the day when we called to see it; but 
Mr. Holmes is now constructing an apparatus on a much 
larger scale, which, when completed and in action, we shall 
examine, and report on to our readers. 

A safer fluid for conveying a high degree of heat in tubes 
not hermetically sealed is muriate of lime, now most success- 
fully applied, by Dr. Ure, for boiling sugar. We had an 
opportunity lately of examining the whole of this process, 
which was most lucidly explained to us by Dr. Ure; and we 
are satisfied that all the bakers’ ovens in London might be 
heated on the same principle as the sugar-boiler which we 
saw, with immense advantages both to the bakers and to the 
public. We do not, however, think it applicable to the heat- 
ing of hot-houses under ordinary circumstances, which is a 
sufficient reason for the brevity of our remarks. We have 
shown, in our Encyclopedia of Cottage Architecture, how 
much has been done’ by Mr. Hicks in the construction’ of 
ovens, and in the production of an excellent and cheap bread ; 
and also how much reformation is wanted in the formation of 
the common ovens of the bakers. 


Art. XI. On the Construction of Fountains for Gardens. 
By the ConpucTor. 


Water, Switzer observes, is “ the very life and soul of a 
garden,” whether it be the ground plot of a suburban cot- 
tage, or the embellished lawn of an extensive villa. Two 
centuries ago, when picturesque beauty and botanical interest 
were little attended to in the gardens of Europe, fountains and 
architectural decorations were sought after as the grand 
sources of interest; and one garden was distinguished from 
another by the expense which had been incurred in its 
waterworks, and in its mural and sculptural appendages. For 


209 


Construction of Fountains for Gardens. 


on 


the construction of waterworks has been 


the last century 


i 
‘a 
ae) 
ao 
og 
- 
ee 
a3 
a 
ap Y 
q & 
cee 
oS 
oa 
= 
Bem 

= 
as 
‘S 4 
es 
2,8 
°o 
ooo 
a 
R=] 
Ss os 
a 
& 
on OY 
2 2 
ole Gt 
9 8 
so 
eb) ey 
eof 


Ol OOF 
seg: 
7 E'S oD 
829s 
wYy ao 
ew 
Beogé 
Sou a 
i 
bees 
SES Fo 
Ose 
Gee ong 
eo Son 
Sats 
oF a 
Gn 6 
2.youe 
SSCS 
—S a See 
288 
ayes 
Ole} e 
Sn OS 
es} 2 OO 
Gy PO 
_oe 
Seosua 
Y¥ 5m 2.8 
SSB ae Se 
ee So Slee 
be ess 
Resae 
Paw Geo 
gE hE 
co OS 
Boe os 
S56 e 
Sa ois EO 


62 


SWAMI ei 


UNUM ORT 


CUM 


SAO Swssssaqse 


ml 


l 


Vox. 1X.— No. 43. 


210 Construction of Fountains for Gardens. 


which water is conveyed to a height, and then left to trickle 
down over an ornamental form, such as the lower part of 
fig. 129. Vol. VII., as opposed to artificial fountains, in which 
water is forced to spout up vertically, as in the upper part of 
the same figure, and in fig. 42. of Vol. VIIJ. Another cir- 
cumstance favourable to the construction of ornamental foun- 
tains is, the facility with which iron can now be cast into the 
most beautiful shapes, at a very moderate expense. With 
the artificial stone of Austin, or the kiln-burnt artificial stone 
of Coade and Seeley, which is as durable as the hardest 
marble, with cast-iron shafts and jets, and with iron or leaden 
pipes, there is now no difficulty in constructing the most 
beautiful garden fountains at a trifling cost, in the grounds of 
every villa. Austin will supply the stonework, Rowley (the 
inventor of the fountain fig. 62.) the pipes and the machinery, 
and Gray of the Colosseum the design. On our part, we 
shall chiefly confine ourselves, at present, to showing the 
situations in which the erection of fountains is practicable, and 
the manner of conveying the water to them. 

A fountain may be formed wherever there is either a natural 
or an artificial supply of water some feet higher than the level 
of the surface on which 
the fountain is to be 
placed. Where a droop- 
ing fountain is to be 
adopted, such as fig. 63. 
or jig. 64., the level of 
the water in the head 
need be no higher than 
the joint at which the 
drooping water issues 
from the figure; but if, 
on the other hand, the 
water is to rise up- 
wards, as in fig. 65., the 
head must be higher 
than the height to which 
the jet is expected to 
rise, by at least several 
inches, according to the 
diameter of the jet. 
Where the jet is small, 
say an eighth of an inch, 
the height of the head 
above it, provided the 
water in that head be 


Construction of Fountains for Gardens. 211 


always kept to the same level, need not be above six inches ; 
but, as it is seldom practicable to keep the head to the same 
level, it is better to have the bottom ‘of the pond or cistern 
sufficiently high to effect the desired object; in which case, 
so long as there is any water in the cistern at all, the jet will 
rise to the proper height. 

Where a natural head of water of the proper height cannot 
be obtained, recourse may be had to artificial means of raising 
water to an elevated cistern or reservoir. ‘This cistern may 
either be placed on a natural or artificial eminence, or on 
the summit of abuilding. In pleasure-grounds, an artificial 
mount, or piece of conical rockwork, would afford a good 
situation; and a simple tower, round or. square, is also at 
once a cheap mode of elevating a cistern, and of adding to 
grounds an ornament, which, if not very beautiful, can yet 
never be considered mean or paltry. 

The water may be raised to the basin or cistern so placed, 
by forcing-pumps worked by men, horses, wind, water, or 
steam; or by that very ingenious machine, the hydraulic ram, 
which we have before noticed (Vol. V. p. 594.) as being in 
use at Bury Hill; and which has lately been put up, in various 
parts of the country, for this purpose, by Mr. Rowley. How- 
ever, the mode which we would recommend, as most directly 
applicable where there is no natural power, is that of having 
a small steam-engine, say of two-horse power, which might 
be placed in the lower part of the tower containing the cistern, 
or in any convenient situation near the well, pond, or other 

Pe 


212 Construction of Fountains for Gardens. 


source of supply, and set to work once or twice a week, as occa- 
sion mightrequire. A horizontal windmill, so disguised in the 
tower as not to be an offensive object, would, in all elevated 
situations, as we have elsewhere observed (Lincyc. of Cottage 
Architecture, § 1256.), be the cheapest and best that could be 
employed; because it would require little or no attention, and 
might be left to itself, to work or stand still, according to the 
wind. he construction of such a windmill is exceedingly 
simple, and no man that we know is more fit to carry the 
design into execution than Mr. Thorold of Norwich. In 
some situations, where there is no other employment for the 
poor, it might be an act of charity to set them to work on a 
machine for raising water for this and other purposes, though 
we would not be understood to recommend, as a general prin- 
ciple, such a misapplication of human labour. Whatever 
can be done by a machine ought never to be attempted by 
man. 

In conducting the water from the cistern or reservoir to 
the jet or fountain, the following particulars require to be 
attended to: — In the first place, all the pipes must be laid 
sufficiently deep in the earth, or otherwise placed and pro- 
tected, so as to prevent the possibility of their being reached 
by frost; next, as a general rule, the diameter of the orifice 
from which the jet of water proceeds, technically called the 

' bore of the quill, ought to be four times less than the bore of 
the conduit pipe; that is, the quill and pipe ought to be in a 
quadruple proportion to each other. There are several sorts 
of quills, or spouts which throw the water up or down, into a 
variety of forms; such as fans, parasols, sheaves, showers, 
mushrooms, inverted bells, &c.; or (and which is one of the 
newest forms) the convolvulus of Mr. Rowley, as shown in 

Jig.62. The larger the conduit pipes are, the more freely 
will the jets display their different forms; and the fewer the 
holes in the quill or jet (for sometimes this is pierced like the 
rose of a watering-pot), the greater certainty will there be of 
the form continuing the same ; because the risk of any of the 
holes choking up will be less. ‘The diameter of a conduit pipe 
ought in no case to be less than an inch; but, for jets like those 
in the preceding figures, the diameter ought to be two inches ; 
and, for the number of jets shown in jig. 66. (which is an old 
rustic Dutch form, of easy execution in flints and cement, the 
basin being of earthenware), twoinches anda half, or three inches, 
will be found requisite. Where the conduit pipes are of great 
length, say upwards cf 1000 feet, it is found advantageous to 
begin, at the reservoir or cistern, with pipes of a diameter 
somewhat greater than those which deliver the water to-the 


Construction of Fountains for Gardens. 213 


ym I - | 
oN | ee Ni = ap i 
mae Vind a Se [Seee 
fe WIKA ha " SS ives Ree 
CAA isan \\ Sal ISSINSISNSU SSS SSS 
CaN N04 | WANES i sisieees 
. WPT 3 : YS ¥ Ee cx 
ie SEC pecs ee Nal! 2S) ee ety 
a se Svs — -|t Frill ee Oe eal eee COLAC 
ae Sf ey icra breceeces eta aereeaeees 
ERIN nel reta: Ws @; jeacaratet Renn Segeeeme 
ERE AN REE a I RES eS RSE 


cS ) UA BAHN ae cs 
SORE ARS SHARES TERY (A 


quills, because the water, in a pipe of uniform diameter of so 
great a length, is found to lose much of its strength, and 
become what is technically called sleepy; while the different 
sizes quicken it, and redouble its force. For example, in 
a conduit pipe of 1800 feet in length, the first 600 feet may 
be laid with pipes of eight inches in diameter, the next 600 
feet with pipes of six inches in diameter, and the last 600 feet 
with pipes of four inches in diameter. In conduits not ex- 
ceeding 900 feet, the same diameter may be continued through- 
out. When several jets are to play, in several, or in the 
same fountain, it is not necessary to lay a fresh pipe from each 
jet to the reservoir; a main of sufficient size, with branch 
pipes to each jet, being all that is required. Where the con- 
duit pipe enters the reservoir or cistern, it ought to be of 


increased diameter, and the grating placed over it ought to 
P 3 


214 Construction of Fountains for Gardens. 


be semiglobular or conical ; so that the area of the number of 
holes in it may exceed the area of the orifice of the conduit 
pipe. The object is to prevent any diminution of pressure 
from the body of water in the cistern, and to facilitate the flow 
of the water. Where the conduit pipe joins the fountain, 
there, of course, ought to be a cock for turning the water off 
and on; and particular care must be taken that as much 
water may pass through the oval hole of this cock as passes 
through the circular hole of the pipe. In conduit pipes, all 
elbows, bendings, and right angles should be avoided as much 
as possible; since they diminish the force of the water. In 
long conduit pipes, air holes, formed by soldering on upright 
pieces of pipe, terminating in inverted valves, or suckers, 
should be made at convenient distances, in order to let the 
air out. Where pipes ascend and descend on very irregular 
surfaces, the strain on the lowest parts of the pipe is always 
the greatest ; unless care is taken to relieve this by the judi- 
cious disposition of cocks and air holes. Without this pre- 
caution, pipes conducted over irregular surfaces will not last 
nearly so long as those conducted over a level. 

The perpendicular height to which water will rise in a jet 
has a limit, depending on the diameter of the jet, and on the 


Construction of Fountains for Gardens. 215 


specific gravity of the water and on that of the air which it 
has to penetrate. A jet of salt water will rise higher than 
one of fresh water; a column six inches in diameter higher 
than one of three inches; and a jet of water of any dimen- 
sion higher at Madrid or Munich than in Paris or London, 
on account of the difference of the elevation of these cities above 
the level of the sea. The most powerful garden jet in Europe 
is that in the Nymphenburg gardens, near Munich. The water 
is there forced by the direct influence of machinery, without 
the intervention of a head or reservoir; and it is found that 
a column of six inches in diameter cannot, even there, be 
raised higher than ninety feet. A similar column, at St. Cloud 
( fg. 67.), is said not to rise higher than sixty or seventy feet. 
It must be recollected that water boils at Munich at 209°; 
whereas at St. Cloud it requires 212° to effect ebullition. 
Thinking it most desirable to attempt to revive the taste 
for fountains in garden scenery (not, indeed, the childish baubles 
of the middle ages, when the object was to surprise or frighten 
the spectator, or probably to wet his clothes, but those classical 
forms which characterise the modern fountains of Italy, and 
especially those of Rome), we here present two designs: 


aN 
MEN 
\ 
! \\ 
{ 
{ \ 


216 Construction of Fountains for Gardens. 


Jig. 68. is a shell fountain erected in the gardens at White 
Knights, and which in 1826 appeared to us to have an excel- 
lent effect. 2g. 69. is the composition of a talented young 


09 


architect, Edward Buckton Lamb, Esq.; it may be formed 
of cast iron, like that of Mr. Rowley, and the wall of the 
lower basin may be of granite or marble. ‘The Mona marble, 
from its hardness and unfitness for more delicate purposes, 
is particularly suitable. We invite all our readers, but more 
especially landscape-gardeners and garden architects, to co- 
operate with us, by sending us additional designs with dis- 
cussions on their erection and effect. We are persuaded that, 
if the business were properly engaged in, there need not be a 


New Mode of transplanting large Trees. 217 


pleasure-ground in England without water in some ornamental 
form, where that element is desirable, and this, too, at a ver 
moderate expense. _It is astonishing that, in some of the mag- 
nificent seats in Britain, where hundreds of thousands have 
been laid out on the house, and where water has been entirely 
wanting, or in a bad situation, not a shilling has been ex- 
pended on procuring it artificially. There is no place we 
know that would gain so much by an artificial lake as Ash- 
ridge Park, and none more in want of fountains near the 
house than Eaton Hall; and yet there is not a glimpse of 
water in the one case, nor. the simplest fountain in the other, 
notwithstanding the sumptuousness of the palaces at both 
places, and the immense wealth possessed by their owners. 
Mr. Austin has done much to introduce a better taste in 
the forms of fountains for garden decoration, of which fig. 129. 
of Vol. VII., and fig. 42. of Vol. VIII. may be offered as a 
proof; as fig. 62. may be referred to as a specimen of the 
ingenuity of Mr. Rowley, who is, like Mr. Austin, Mr. Gray, 
Mr. Lamb, and Mr. Thorold, every way worthy of patronage. 


Art. XII. Notice of a new Method of transplanting large Trees, 
_ invented by Mr. James Munro, Manager of Messrs. Dickson and 
Turnbull's Nursery, Brechin. By the ConpucrTor. 


Tue first account of this mode appeared in the Quarterly 
Journal of Agriculture for March last. Immediately on ob- 
serving the article, we wrote to Mr. Munro for further parti- 
culars; and, from his letter of March 11th, and the journal 
referred to, we have drawn up’ the following notice ; — 

During the winter of 1824, having occasion to transplant 
a number of trees, and being dissatisfied with the mode of 
preparation by opening a trench round the tree and filling it 
with loose soil, Mr. Munro selected an oak about 25 years 
old, large for its years, and prepared it in the following man- 
ner: — He formed a circular trench round the tree, and dug 
out the earth; but, instead of filling the trench with loose 
mould, he left it empty, and roofed it over with boards, cover- 
ing over any opening between them with withered grass, and 
then putting over the whole one inch deep of earth. The tree 
remained a year in this state, and was transplanted in the winter 
of 1825. On reducing the ball of earth to proper dimen- 
sions for removing the tree, the old roots were found furnished 
with fibres, matted sufficiently to retain enough of earth to 
protect them during removal. The object which Mr. Munro 
had in view was, instead of encouraging the growth of fibres 
at the extremities of the amputated roots, as is done when 


218 A new Arrangement of the 


the trench is filled in with loose soil, to have them formed 
within the ball of earth, and not on the outside of it. This 
he considered would enable him to remove the tree with a 
ball, which he never could accomplish by the other method, 
though he had practised it for five years, on from three to five 
hundred trees annually. When the trench dug round the 
tree is filled with loose earth, the young roots form in clusters 
round the ends of the old roots, and the tree on removal ge- 
nerally loses the whole of the earth which formed the ball. 

Mr. Munro only tried his plan on one tree, and soon after- 
wards left that part of the country. We hope some of our 
readers will repeat the experiment on a more extensive scale, 
and let us know the result. They have only to bear in mind 
the object in view, viz. that of creating a number of fibres in 
the ball, to keep the, earth from falling away from the roots 
when the tree is taken up for removal. Of course, when a 
tree with a large top is prepared in this manner, it must, un- 
less it be in a very sheltered situation, be supported by stakes, 
to prevent it from being blown down by high winds. 


Art. XIII. A new Arrangement of the Double-flowered Chinese 
Chrysanthemums, with an improved Method of Cultivation. By 
A. H. Haworrtu, Esq. F.L.S. &c., Author of “ Synopsis Plan- 
tarum Succulentarum, Narcissinearum Monographia,”’ &c. 

Sir, 

I nave the pleasure of sending you, hereunder, a new ar- 
rangement of double Chinese chrysanthemums, for insertion, 
if you please, in an early Number of that interesting and use- 
ful publication, the Gardener’s Magazine. 

To the new, and, I hope, improved location in my distri- 
bution of these fine and much favoured plants, are added 
some brief but characteristic descriptions of their size, time 
of flowering, and appearance of their flowers ; together with 
an epitomised method of the management, soil, and cultiva- 
tion they require. And they are well worthy of all the care 
and attention we can bestow upon them; being not only at 
present one of the finest hardy herbaceous groups in the flower- 
garden, and remaining with us in bloom by much the latest ; 
but they will hereafter, through the medium of their very 
sportive seeds, become far more numerous, more various, more 
beautiful, and more attractive than ever. 

Seven years have passed away since any published informa- 
tion has been added to our knowledge of these hardy and 
conspicuous flowers ; the last account, as far as the writer can 
find, being that given by Mr. Sabine, in the Transactions of 


Double-flowered Chinese Chrysanthemums. 219 


the Horticultural Society, vol. v. p. 322. &c., dated Jan. 1826; 
in which 48 species or varieties are enumerated, but without 
any sections, divisions, or subdivisions whatever, and with in- 
sufficient attention to their natural affinities ; which renders it 
very difficult for any one, and more especially a tyro, to ap- 
preciate and understand them sufficiently. Wherefore I send 
you, hereunder, what I conceive to be an improved and more 
natural arrangement of them, nearly as far as known to me; 
referring them to, and identifying them with, Mr. Sabine’s va- 
rieties in every instance, as far as practicable, and likewise to 
published figures wherever I have been able to find any. 

I possess, alive, several other reputed varieties ; but these, 
at present, I refrain from mentioning, hoping to describe them 
more completely another year, when I may know more about 
them, and be better able to appreciate their characters. There 
have also very recently been raised, and flowered, various 
seedling varieties, which were exhibited at the December 
meeting of the Horticultural Society of London, which were 
chiefly obtained from seeds of the Early Blush, the Early 
Crimson, and the Two-coloured Red. These, however, I 
must abstain from further mention of at present. 

There have been various methods recommended for the 
cultivation and propagation of these showy plants, and that 
by cuttings in May is now almost universally adopted. But 
I do not approve of this for strong fibrous-rooted, hardy herb- 
aceous plants with late autumnal blossoms; for critical time 
is lost by the delay of striking the cuttings ; and, if they are 
accelerated by heat and glass, they are (more than any other 
plants) debilitated, weakened, and dwarfed, and often lose 
their lower leaves by the time their flowers are open, having 
a faint and sickly appearance, instead of the vigorous growth 
of such roots, if annually parted and transplanted like peren- 
nial asters or other hardy perennial plants. 

I recommend their voracious and very fibrous roots to be 
parted in autumn, or early spring, and planted in very rich 
manured light soil, at the foot of a south or west aspected 
wall, with not more than one, two, or three branches from 
each root, trained to the wall as regularly and as thinly as a 
peach tree, cutting off all superfluous shoots and weak lateral 
flower-buds. 

They must, when planted, be watered in the usual way, 
and afterwards, all over their leaves, with a fine rose watering- 
pan, lightly, as a fine slight shower, as often as their foliage 
flags, quailing to the beams of a powerful sun, which will 
sometimes be three times a day in the hottest weather. 
This will quickly re-erect their drooping leaves, without 


220 A new Arrangement of the 


scorching or blistering them, and cause these uncommonly 
slow-growing plants to advance with a degree of comparative 
rapidity that is as pleasing as it is surprising, and their leaves 
will become twice as large as when treated in the usual way. 
The size of this foliage, too, as in bulbous and most other 
plants, will indicate the increase of size also in the expected 
but as yet invisible flowers ; although in Succuléntz, and more 
especially in Ficdideze, I should expect the reverse. 

Thus treated, these conspicuous plants will reach the height 
of 3 or 4 ft. in the smaller sorts, and that of 7 and 8, at least 
in the tallest kinds, terminating in abundant and most beau- 
tiful flowers, many of which will far surpass 5 in. in expan- 
sion, and with almost every colour, except deep scarlet and 
the tints of blue. 

But other aspects than the south or west, and even the cpen 
borders in very favourable seasons, will suit the greater part 
of these plants, near London, tolerably well, and enable them 
to open their flowers, though much later and smaller than 
those against a south-aspected wall, where they will expand 
every season; and, if properly blended as to colour, at the 
middle and end of every November, they are capable of making 
a more showy and magnificent appearance of flowery beauty, 
richness, and elegance, than I ever beheld in any other group. 
The duration of their hardy flowers is likewise greater than 
that of other autumnal plants, both as to individual blossoms, 
and in the lateral successional ones, and even when cut for 
bouquets and placed in vessels of water; one plant of the 
old purple, in my garden, having had flowers from the begin- 
ning of November last, to the second week in the present 
January. But the earlier they can be made to come into 
blossom, by open-air treatment (for all forcing irretrievably 
weakens them), the better, and the longer will be their dura- 
tion, and the finer their soft but agreeable chamomile scent. 

Notwithstanding these deserved eulogies, Chinese chrysan- 
themums have not hitherto ranked with the true flowers of the 
florist, because, however well formed, in many of the varieties, 
they are all, save the Gold-bordered Red, of self or uniform 
colours; and the florist requires yet another colour or colours 
to be distinctly depicted upon the first or ground colour of 
every petal, to constitute his favourite flakes, bizarres, and 
picotees. 

This grand desideratum in Chinese chrysanthemums will, 
however, be finally accomplished through the seeds of well- 
formed half-double or double flowers, particularly those of my 
first section, called ranunculus-flowered ; one of that section, 
the above-mentioned Gold-bordered Red, having already a fine 


Double-flowered Chinese Chrysanthemums, 221 


form, and the rudiments of a flaked flower ; its broad-edged 
border, base, and tips, often leaving, when well blown, a com- 
paratively huge single flake of red in the central length of 
every petal. We must try the seeds, whenever we can _pro- 
cure them; and their unequalled sportiveness will reward us 
for the trouble of rearing them, by countless numbers of new 
forms, faces, and colours, surpassing all we at present know. 

The sports of colour in the flowers, by casual branches from 
old plants, are well known, and capable of being propagated 
and perpetuated; and I shall notice them in my arrangement 
below, in every instance, as far as known. 

In closing this paper, I beg leave to return my grateful 
thanks to the following gentlemen and nurserymen, for living 
roots of nearly the whole of the plants which compose this 
paper ; who, on hearing I was studying Chinese chrysanthe- 
mums, generously offered me any part of their nearly com- 
plete collections, which I thankfully accepted : — 

The Rev. Mr. Ellicomb, Bitton Vicarage, near Bristol ; 
Mr. Ingpen, Wellesley Street, Chelsea, who has nearly a 
complete and well-named collection; Mr. Tate, nurseryman, 
Sloane Street, Chelsea; and Mr. Dennis, nurseryman, King’s 
Road, Chelsea, who has very nearly a complete and accurately 
named collection. 

I remain, Sir, yours, &c. 
Chelsea, Jan. 1833. A. H. Haworru. 


A new Arrangement of Double-flowered Chinese Chrysanthemums. 


* RANUNCULUS-FLOWERED. 

1. Yellow Indian, Hort. Trans. v. 4. p. 330. tab. 12. and y. 6. p. 346. Of 
short stature (in its group), with very late and double, but small, 
flowers ; and forms, with the next, a distinct species. : 

2. White Indian, Hort. Trans. v. 6. p. 347. Shorter than the preceding, 
with very late and similar, but white, flowers. 

3. Warratah Yellow, Hort. Trans. v. 6. p. 344. Flowers very late, with 
the preceding, and of similar size, but has much more entire leaves, 
and larger flowers, which make it a distinct species. 

4. Spanish Brown, Hort. Trans. y. 4. p. 486. and v. 5. p. 420. Of short 
firm stature, and rather early and beautiful flowers, the size of the 
preceding, and with smallish leaves a little more pinnatifid, and pro- 
bably a distinct species. 

5. Blush Ranunculus-flowered, Hort, Trans. v. 6. p. 328. Of short firm sta- 
ture, and fine-formed early flower, of a blush colour, and peculiar 
neatness of form. I think I have two variations of it. 

6. Small Deep Yellow; Park’s Small Yellow, Hort. Trans. v. 6. p. 327. 
Taller and weaker than the last, early and small-flowered, with small 
and blunt pinnatedly-lobate leaves. Perhaps it may be a distinct 
species, from its small leaves and flowers. ! 

7. Small.Pale Yellow; Small Windsor Yellow, Hort. Trans. v. 5. p. 415. 
and y. 6. p. 335. Also called Aiton’s Yellow. Of short stiff growth, 
and early flowering, and but little merit. 


222 A new Arrangement of the 


8. 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14, 


15. 


16. 


17. 


18. 


19. 


Small Flat Yellow; Small Yellow, Hort. Trans. y. 5. tab. 17. and y. J. 
p. 422. Of shortish growth, and with pure yellow and expanded 
early flowers, the shape and size of the three subsequent varieties, of 
which it is presumed to be the origin, as yellow is the most predomi- 
nant colour in these plants. Their forms are very neat and regular. - 


. The Buff, or Copper, Hort. Trans. v. 5. p.420. Also called the Orange, 


or Buff. Resembles the preceding in every thing but colour. 

The Rose, or Pink, Hort. Trans. v. 4. p. 344. Also called the Lilac. 
Resembles the last in all things but colour, and is now the most 
common kind in cultivation, although introduced after the old purple, 
hereunder enumerated. 

The Pale Pink, Hort. Trans. v. 6. p. 336. Raised in Mr. Colvill’s 
nursery, being a sportive branch from the last, and differing in nothing 
but colour. This and the three preceding doubtless sport mutually into 
each other, and are perpetuated by cuttings of their respective sports 
in the first instance, and offsets as well as cuttings afterwards; but 
are all liable to sport again, from pale pink through deeper pink, and 
copper or light orange to bright yellow: but their shoots and leaves 
are immutable. 

Expanded Light Purple, Hort. Trans. v. 5. p. 153. and vy. 5. p. 421.; 
and Bot. Mag. tab. 2256. Of middling size, and with flowers in the 
middle season (of its group), but nearly twice as large as the last, 
though resembling it in form, and far more handsome. 

Quilled Light Purple, Hort. Trans. v. 5. p. 155., and v. 5. p. 421. A 
sport only from the last, but now made permanent. 


** INCURVING RANUNCULUS-FLOWERED. 


Incurving Lilac, Sweet, Brit. Fl. Gard. tab. 7.; Curled Lilac, Hort. 
Trans. vy. 5. p. 155. and p.421. Also called the Quilled Lilac. 
Grows tall, and flowers early, and is an elegant plant, allied to the 
preceding, and has produced the following one from a sportive 
branch. 

Curled Blush, Hort. Trans. vy. 6. p. 326. Has been called the Double 
Blush, and Double White. The flowers, which are rather early, 
large, and showy, dying off nearly of that colour. It is of middling 
stature in its group; and, although a sport only of the preceding, is 
now an established and more beautiful variety than it. 

The Quilled Pink, Hort. Trans. v. 4. p. 350. and v. 5. p. 351. 420, 
421.; and Bot. Reg. v. 8. tab. 616. Of tall stature, and one of the 
very latest in blooming; but very handsome, and repaying by its 
beauty every care bestowed upon it by the gardener. It has been 
called the most beautiful of all; but with me it yields to the Gold- 
bordered Red. 

Large Quilled Orange, Hort. Trans. y. 5. p. 152. tab. 3. (upper figure), 
and v. 5. p. 421. A tall and large latish-flowering variety, of con- 
siderable beauty, and at present uncommon. 

Gold-bordered Red; the Two-coloured Incurved of Hort. Trans. v. 6. 
p. 332, 333. Of tall stature, very late, with the most perfect and 
beautiful flower of all its genus, although only of the middle size. 
The red petals are striped with gold beneath, and golden-tipped there ; 
which. tips, incurving strongly and gracefully, show the gold in a front 
view of the flower, which is golden likewise at its base within. I 
consider it the most complete of all. 

The Superb White, Hort. Trans. y. 4. p. 338. and vy. 5. p. 420. A 
late, very tall, and splendid plant, with large, incurving, very double, 
pure white flowers. 


Double-flowered Chinese Chrysanthemums. 223 


*##* CHINA-ASTER-FLOWERED; often showing a disk, and then much 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23. 


24, 


25. 


resembling China Asters. 
The Sulphur Yellow, Hort. Trans. vy. 4. p. 341. and v. 5. p. 420. A 
beautiful variety, of tall stature, and free and early blooming, with 
middle-sized aster-like flowers. 
The Two-coloured Red, Hort. Trans. v. 6. tab. 4. and vy. 6. p. 342, 343. 
A very fine and showy variety, of the middle size in stem and flowers, 
but rather late, which sometimes shows a disk, and is then very aster- 
like. The bipinnatifid leaves are far more laciniated than any other 
kind; and I think they constitute it a distinct species. 
The Early Crimson, Hort. Trans. v. 5. tab. 3. (inferior figure) p. 151. 
and p. 421. Of light small stature, delicate, and apt to lose its 
leaves before its bloom is finished. The flowers are middle-sized, 
early, and very beautiful ; they show a disk, and, when well managed, 
have ripened perfect seeds in England. 
The Clustered Pink, Hort. Trans. v. 6. p. 336. Also known by the 
name of the Changeable Blush. One of the tallest of its tribe: 
flowers in the middle season very abundantly; and, although the 
flowers are but middle-sized, and little better than half-double, show- 
ing a considerable disk, and greatly resemble China asters, they make 
a very fine and durable appearance, standing the weather well, and 
becoming much darker by age, though less delicate. This is a very 
likely variety to produce seed in this country. 
The Early Blush, Hort. Trans. v. 6. p. 326. This tall and almost 
unequalled variety is also called the Double Blush, and Double 
White. It flowers very early, beautifully, and freely, and its flowers 
are large, and scarcely show any disk; and their colour without is 
light blush, but within they are exactly of that peculiar tint well 
known by the name of French white; and, like many other varieties, 
they are very durable. They have ripened seeds in England. __ 
The Paper White, Hort. Trans. v. 5. p. 417.422. This exquisitely 
white-flowering and noble variety is of tall stature, and early bloom- 
ing, and makes a splendid appearance in a general collection. Its 
flowers are of the middle size. 


* * *& MARIGOLD-FLOWERED ; with well-formed double flowers, resembling 


26. 


27. 


28. 


29. 


Double Cape Marigolds in shape and size. 


Golden Bronze-back ; Golden Yellow, Hort. Trans. v. 6. p. 342. and 
Bot. Reg. tab. 4. (superior figure). Also called the Large Yellow 
and the King’s Yellow. A very tall, handsome, and free-flowering 
variety. The flowers are early, and of a high rich yellow colour, but 
bronzed or orange in the buds and on their outsides. This is one of 
the best to grow as a standard ; and, if parted at the root and annually 
transplanted, succeeds very well as a herbaceous plant, especially if 
in a warm or sheltered situation, duly supported by a stick. 

The Superb Clustered Yellow, Hort. Trans. v. 5. p. 156. and vy. 5. 
p- 421. and Sweet’s Brit. Fl. Gard. tab. 14. One of the finest and 
tallest of the group, being higher than the preceding, and with more 
clustered, and more neatly formed, pure yellow flowers, but they are 
later in opening. : 
The Golden Lotus-flowered, Hort. Trans. v. 6. p.340. A very splendid 
and large long-leaved variety, and nearly or quite the tallest of this 
genus of plants; having late pure and deep yellow flowers, above the 
middle size, and larger than those of any other yellow kind of the 
marigold form, and which partially endure until the heavier frosts 
of winter destroy them. 

The Changeable Pale Buff, Wort. Trans. v. 6. p. 380. and tab. 3. Also 
called the Pale Cluster. This plant, when flowering as perfectly as it 
is represented on the above-cited table, is one of the most showy and 


DIA A new Arrangement of the 


30. 


31. 


32. 


splendid in the group; but this has not been the case during the 
autumn of 1832; all the flowers, and in various gardens, which met 
the writer’s eye, being, as it were, degenerated into almost buff 
coloured and spuriously quilled flowers, of more upright appearance 
than the large, expanded, flat-petaled, and variegated purple whitish 
and yellow-buffy ones so charmingly depicted in the figure cited. 
They are of the middle season. 

Starry Changeable Purple; The Starry Purple, Hort. Trans. v. 6. 
p. 339. This beautiful plant is one of the most variable-flowered in 
the genus; its very late flowers first opening of a purple colour, with 
the exterior petals at first few in number, starry, and paler, especially at 
their expanded spoon-shaped tips, soon, however, becoming still more 
pale until the whole well expanded and very doubie blossom becomes 
regularly more blush-coloured and white, than purple, and is a very 
fine, well-formed, variegated flower. The stature of the plant is of the 
middle size, but its remarkable leaves are much more laciniated than 
usual, and often broader in their outline than long, which is not the 
case with any other in the group, and of very considerable size. 
Wherefore I conceive it may be a distinct species from all the others. 
The Late Purple; The Late Pale Purple, Hort. Trans. v. 5. p. 413. 
and v. 5. p. 422. and v. 6. p. 353. Also called Large Pale Purple. 
This is a very late-flowering and rather tall variety, whose middling- 
sized and well expanded blossoms are very neat, and resemble in 
shape those of the preceding, but are much smaller. 

The Brown Purple, Hort. Trans. v. 6. p. 341-2. A tall and slender- 
twigged very late-flowering variety, whose middle-sized flowers 
resemble the last in shape, but are not quite so flat and neat in 
expansion, and their colour in the group is very remarkable, being 
of a very dull brownish or reddish purple. The leaves are so small, 
and so bluntly lobed, and on such slender shoots, terminating in such 
‘long and graceful peduncles, that the plant is probably a distinct 
species from Chrysanthemum sinénse, and differs not so much in leaf 
as in flower from our No. 6., the Small deep Yellow; above. 


**%* ** 'TassEL-FLOWERED ; being tall or very tall plants in their genus, 
with very large double, and more or less conspicuously drooping flowers, 
whose petals are usually elongated and quilled, and often greatly 
resemble the form of a tassel. 


33. 


The Tasseled Flame Yellow; The Quilled Flame Yellow, Hort. Trans. 
v. 4. tab. 14. p. 349. and v. 5. p. 421. The magnificent flowers of 
this tall plant appear rather late, and often measure above five inches 
in expansion; and make, perhaps, if not a more neat, at least a more 
showy appearance than any other of the group, being double, and 
composed of innumerable chiefly quilled incurving petals, hanging 
more or less downwards, and when at their best resembling a flame- 
coloured tassel. 


34. The Tasseled Salmon ; The Quilled Salmon, Hort. Trans. vy. 5. tab. 17.* 


(inferior figure) p.414. and p. 422. This is a late-flowering, slender, 
and graceful plant, with large tassel-like, and half-expanded drooping 
quilled salmon-coloured flowers, and is very uncommon. 


35. The Tasseled Yellow, Hort. Trans. vy. 6. p. 329. <A very tall and 


strong-growing large-leaved variety, with numerous tassel-formed 
flowers of the largest and most showy kind, often measuring more 
than five inches over, and appearing rather early. It is one of the 
most desirable and free-growing of the whole collection. 


36. The Quilled Yellow, Hort. Trans. y. 4. p. 341. and y. 5. p. 420. This 


is a tall variety, with rather large flowers, of the middle season, or 
later, producing its blossoms in clusters at the top of the strong 
upright shoots. It is also known by the name of the Quilled Straw. 


37. 


38. 


39. 


40. 


4). 


42. 


43. 


Double-flowered Chinese Chrysanthemums. 225 


The Late Quilled Yellow, Hort. Trans. v. 6. p. 343. This has been 
called a very late and not very desirable variety in collections. It 
appears to be of the middle size, but it has not yet opened its blossom 
buds with me, not having long possessed it. 

The Large Lilac, Hort. Trans. v. 4. p. 343. and v. 5. p. 420. Also 
called the Late Lilac, the New Lilac, and the Semidouble Purple. 
A very tall upright plant, bearing but few double large and clustered 
flowers at the summits of the branches, and those so late in ap- 
pearance, that in cold seasons they cannot expand well, and are con- 
sequently in but little repute. I have only seen one plant in blossom, 
and that in my own garden. 

The Tasseled Lilac, Hort. Trans. v. 6. p.332. A middle-sized, or 
rather tall, plant, of very great beauty, and one of the most desirable 
of the whole group, having very showy tassel-formed flowers, five 
inches or more in expanse, very numerous, early, and elegantly 
drooping from their weight, but they often show a disk. It is a 
likely variety to produce seeds of the most promising kind, but I have 
not hitherto heard of its ripening any in England. 

The Tasseled Purple; The Purple, Hort. Trans. v. 4. p. 334. Has 
also been called the Old Purple, the Old Red, and the Quilled 
Purple, and is figured in the Bot. Mag. tab. 327. This is a very 
beautiful and rather early-flowering plant, of almost the middle 
size. The flowers are very numerous, gracefully drooping, and of 
middling size, and are at first of a reddish purple colour, but become 
paler by age, and in mild seasons will continue in succession from the 
end of October to the second week in January. It acquires the 
name of Old from being the first China chrysanthemum that came to 
England in modern times, and bloomed at Mr. Colvill’s nursery, in 
Nov. 1795, but was said to be at Kew in 1790. The great horti- 
culturist Miller certainly had one, or more likely two, of these 
Chinese, or Indian, chrysanthemums, in cultivation at Chelsea long 
before; but it is not yet quite satisfactorily explained what sorts 
they were. See Hort. Trans. v. 4. tab. 12. p. 326. and following. 

The Changeable Tasseled White ; The Changeable White, Hort. Trans. 
v. 4. p. 336. and v. 5. p. 419., and Bot. Mag. tab. 2042. It has also 
been called the Old White, bemg the first white-flowered variety 
known in our gardens. It is recorded in the Hort. Trans. to have 
been raised from a spor,mg branch of the preceding, and, indeed, 
resembles it in every thng but colour. It is a very graceful and 
elegant plant, and in warm situations its flowers are often more or 
less tmged or dotted with purple or blush colour. 

The Narrow Quilled White; The Quilled White, Hort. Trans. y. 4. 
p- 337. and v. 5. p. 419. This rather slender variety is almost of the 
middle size,and has the slenderest and most completely quilled florets, 
and the earliest flowers, of the whole group, which hang in gracefully 
drooping tassels, and form a strong contrast to the next in almost 
every respect. 

The Great Tasseled White; The Tasseled White, Hort. Trans. v. 4. 
p- 339. and v. 5. p. 420. Has also been called the Expanded White. 
This large, strong and broad, deep-green, shining-leaved variety is one 
of the latest of all in blooming; but its lovely flowers are larger and 
more showy than those of any white-flowered variety, and endured 
to the end of January, 1833, the date of the present paper. No 
flower in this chilly climate stands the cold so well, or so long 
continues to beguile the fancy of a florist by its protracted opening, 
by its hardihood in expansion, and by the soft hue of its snowy 
blossoms; carrying on, as it were, the flowery beauty of lingering 


Vou. IX. — No. 43. Q 


226 On cultivating Cabbages 


autumn into the very bosom of winter, whose ice at length closes the 
temple of Flora for a time, until the herald flowers of spring 
appear amidst the melting snow, as if impatieut of delay. 


#***** FIALF-DOUBLE TASSEL-FLOWERED; with only half-double 
flowers, and narrow elongated quilled petals ; often drooping, and some- 
what resembling a tassel. 

44, Half-double Quilled White ; Semidouble Quilled White, Hort. Trans. 
v. 5. p. 158. A very tall robust variety. The flowers are among the 
latest varieties, and more inclining to be single than usual, yet of too 
late occurrence to ripen seeds with us. They are very large, and the 
narrow quilled petals are very singularly waved, and as if pursuing 
each other from right to left, making a pleasing and almost animated 
appearance. 

45. Half-double Quilled Pink ; Semidouble Quilled Pink, Hort. Trans. v. 5. 
tab. 17.* (inferior figure) p. 157. and vy. 5. p. 422. and v. 6. p. 351. 
This variety grows rather tall, and flowers latish, but its flowers, 
although but half-double, and only of the middle size, possess a degree 
of graceful elegance and lovely hues peculiarly their own. It is at 
present a rare variety. 

46, Half-double Bronze Buff; Pale Buff, Hort. Trans. v. 6. p. 334. Also 
called the Semidouble Pale Buff; and Reeve’s Pale Buff, and 
Quilled Buff, and the Buff. It is a very tall and free-growing variety, 
and its half-double buff large flowers, which in their early stages are 
much bronzed, though of coarse hues, make a showy appearance, 
and stand the weather better than all others, opening rather early, 
and continuing late, until all the bronze is gone, having faded to a 
dull buff. 

47, Half-double Quilled Orange ; Semidouble Quilled Orange, Hort. Trans. 
v. 5. p. 412. and p. 422., and v. 5. tab. 17.** (left-hand figure), and 
v. 6. p. 352. A tallish plant, with but few large and almost single, 
and also some nearly half-douhle, flowers, of good size, but making a 
poor show. 

48. Half-double Pale Quilled Orange ; Semidouble Quilled Pale Orange, 
Hort. Trans. v. 6. p. 337. Also called Semidouble Deep Yellow. 
Of the middle stature, with few and late flowers, of good size, but 
comparatively poor appearance, on loosely drooping footstalks. 


Obs. The author has rejected the hybrid word semi-double throughout 
the paper. 


Art. XIV. On cultivating Cabbages by Slips or Cuttings. 
By Peter KENDALL, Esq. 
Sir, 

I ogBsERvVE you have noticed (Vol. VIII. p. 126.) a paper 
read by J. Lindley, Esq., at the Horticultural Society’s Meet- 
Hs Dec. 6. 1831; upon the propagation of cabbages from 
slips. 

I am anxious to draw the attention of the public to this 
plan, which many years ago I saw practised in the Brazils, 
and which I adopted on my return to England, and have 
practised ever since. 

Early in the spring of 1831, I mentioned the subject to 
Mr. Lindley, who seemed much pleased with it, having never 


by Slips or Cuttings. 227 -- 


heard of it before, and promised to give the plan a trial in 
the Society’s garden at Chiswick. ‘The paper above alluded 
to reports the very satisfactory result of several trials made 
by his directions, and I had hoped some further notice would 
have been taken of it, as that gentleman assured me he 
thought it a useful plan, and well worth general adoption. 

The following extract from an old Morning Herald, of the 
23d of October last, taken up by accident a few days ago, 
must be my apology for addressing you on the subject : — 

“ Extract of a Letter from the Swan River. — Cabbage seed 
is of great value, as none of ours have seeded this year, and 
the Cape g gardeners send to England fer it, as it degenerates 
very much in a warm climate.” 

Had the writer of the above been aware that cabbages 
may readily be propagated from slips, he would most likely 
have availed himself of this simple method to replenish his 
garden, instead of waiting for a supply of seed either from 
the Cape of Good Hope « or England. 

Having no copy of the paper r read by Mr. Lindley, I will 

endeavour briefly to describe my method of propagating, 
which I have practised with perfect success. ‘The slips, 
when taken from the cabbage stalk, are exposed a sufficient 
time to the sun and atmosphere to cauterise the wounded 
part: in the summer 24 hours is sufficient, and two or three 
days in the winter; rubbing a little wood-ashes on the part, 
as recommended by Mr. Lindley, greatly assists in cauterising 
the wound, and prevents bleeding. Plant them, and they 
require no further trouble. After cutting the cabbages, the 
sprouts again afford a supply of slips for plants, and thus a 
regular succession of cabbages is secured throughout the 
whole year, with the certainty of preserving the “quality of 
the parent stock unchanged; and of doing away with the 
necessity of raising plants | fiom seed at all. 

It is well known how little reliance can be placed upon the 
plants raised from seed being equal to the parent stock 
in quality, and how many disappointments arise in conse- 
quence. All this may be avoided, and each variety of 
cabbage propagated, without the least change or deterioration 
in its quality; and I have every reason to believe an earlier 
supply may be brought to table by planting slips, than from 
seedling plants. Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 

Peter KEenpatt. 
Higham Lodge, near Stratford St. Mary's, 
Suffolk, Feb, 4. 1833. 


Q 2 


228 Mushrooms in the open Air, 


Art. XV. On producing Mushrooms in plenty in the open Air, 
Srom June to November. By Mr. J. ELuxs. 


Sir, 

AxouT a twelvemonth ago (Vol. VIII. p. 214.), I promised 
to give you some account of growing mushrooms in the open 
air, during part of the summer and autumnal months; unless 
some of my brother gardeners should step forward in the 
meantime, and give the required information. As the last 
number of Vol. VIII. of the Magazine has just come to hand, 
and I find that none of your correspondents have made 
the attempt; I, without further preface, will endeavour to 
fulfil my promise. The reason why mushrooms have not 
been more generally cultivated, or attempted to be cultivated, 
in the open air, from June to November, is, I presume, to be 
found in this simple fact, that they are generally to be obtained 
in sufficient quantity in pasture lands, immediately adjoining 
the residences of gentlemen. If, however, a method can be 
pointed out, and that method the- most simple in the world, 
by which as many mushrooms may be gathered from a few 
square yards of cultivated land, as from as many acres of 
pasture land; surely the experiment deserves a fair trial, even 
if it were for nothing more than for the sake of saving shoe- 
leather and wet feet; for, however poetical “ brushing with 
hasty steps the dews away” may sound to ears polite, I do 
not know a more disagreeable job than gathering mushrooms 
in a wet morning; especially when a poor fellow’s only con- 
solation is to know that he must work out the remaining part 
of the day in the same wet plight. But to return: I not only 
propose to produce a crop of mushrooms, but likewise a good 
crop of carrots, radishes, &c.; so,that, even should the mush- 
rooms fail, the gardener will ber compensated for any little 
extra-trouble he may have been, put to. JI may observe that 
I have tried several modes to grow mushrooms; and one sea- 
son succeeded in producing a few among some late potatoes ; 
but, generally speaking, all my schemes failed, until, at last, in 
April, 1831, I made a bed upon a pavement 7 ft. wide and 
40 ft. long, and 2 ft. high; the bottom part (say upwards of 
18in.) with fresh litter, and the top entirely with an old 
mushroom bed, from which the best of the spawn was picked, 
to be afterwards distributed regularly over the surface. Upon 
this about 4 in. thick of pasture loam was spread, and a thick 
straw rope pegged down round the edges, to keep the loam or 
mould from falling, and to give it a finished appearance. I 
now sowed some seeds of short-horn carrots, radishes, cauli- 
flowers, and tender annuals, &c.; in short, any thing that 


Jrom June to November. 229 


required a little heat; for, in fact, it was for these things I 
made the bed: the mushrooms were a secondary consider- 
ation. ‘The bed, thus finished, came into bearing about the 
middle of June, and continued till November. It was in July 
and August I saw the value of the carrots; for the tops com- 
pletely shaded the mushrooms from the scorching heat of the 
sun, and as effectually sheltered them from the chilling frosts 
in October. The crop surpassed any thing either my neigh= 
bours or myself had ever seen before; but we must not forget 
that the season of 1831 was remarkably fine for mushrooms. 
In the spring of this year, 1832, taking the advantage of a 
dry fit of weather, I made a bed as similar to the above as I 
possibly could; and, although the produce was sufficient for a 
large family, yet I consider the crop scanty when compared 
with the preceding one. ‘The mushrooms appeared later, and 
left off bearing sooner; they likewise came’ inconveniently 
large, some weighing half a pound before the veil was broken. 
I have thus stated facts, without entering into any speculative 
arguments concerning the 3nysterious growth of this useful 
and delicious vegetable, and have given you the results of two 
experiments, in two consecutive years, conducted with as much 
accuracy as the nature of the materials and the changeable- 
ness of the seasons would permit; and, if like causes produce 
similar effects, would it be logical to say that these results 
were fortuitous ? 

Should you think the above worth printing, you will allow 
me to call on my fellow-labourers to bestow their best atten- 
tion upon this subject; for if it succeed, and succeed it must 
(at least, I think so), why then every farmer in the empire 
may be taught to produce this vegetable in abundance; for 
certainly nothing can be more simple than making a bed on 
the surface of the ground, in any dry airy situation, 2 ft. high, 
with fresh horse-litter, and 5 ft. or 6 ft. wide; the length, of 
course, a matter of choice er convenience, and covering this 
with the cleanings from the horse track of a threshing-machine, 
or from a colt-house. Over ali spread a few inches of mould, 
sow the carrot seed, and the work is done. 

I remain, Sir, yours, &c. 
Palace Gardens, Armagh, J. ELLEs. 
Dec, 9. 1832. 


a3 


230 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. I. Domestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


A FEW cautionary Hints to Florists, Nurserymen, and Innkeepers. — 1 am 
a well-wisher to all florists, nurserymen, and innkeepers, in general, and, I 
trust, to every one else. I cannot, perhaps, better show it than by giving 
them a strict caution not to deal or give the least attention to a fellow 
calling himself Gern, of the firm of Gern and Co., Nurserymen, Aberdeen ; 
pretending to carry about with him the Scottish seedling ranunculuses 
for sale, raised by the far-famed Mr. Waterstone of Paisley, and a Mr. 
Thompson, and also showing a general nursery catalogue. Now, there is 
positive proof that this fellow is a thorough impostor both in word and 
deed ; and report goes so far as to say that he is not ignorant of seven 
years’ transportation, which I conscientiously believe to be true, from the 
quarter from which I received my imormation. At whatever imn or 
public house this Judas may think proper to take up his abode, he regu- 
larly leaves without paying the landlord. In this manner he has acted _ to 
three respectable houses in Cambridge; and at Huntingdon also he has 
left them sufficient cause not to forget one Gern, the Scotch laddie from 
Aberdeen, who kindly honoured them with a visit. His appearance is by 
no means respectable; but I will give him credit for the possession of 
abilities far beyond what we meet with every day. In his conversation he 
is pleasing, and it is mixed up with anecdotes captivating to that class 
of men he most usually calls upon. He has on a shabby green great-coat, 
carries a purple bag similar to those used by travellers, and, whilst ad- 
dressing, you frequently takes snuff. He stands about five feet four inches 
in height. This is as near as I can describe his appearance. I do most 
earnestly entreat, for the good of the public at large, that those gentle- 
men who may be honoured by a call from this vile impostor will do all 
in their power to entrap him, and inflict upon him such punishment as his 
conduct so justly merits at the hands of every honest and fair-dealing man. 
I write this not because I have myself been imposed upon, but from the 
strong disgust that I feel that so infamous a fellow should have cheated 
friends of mine. Should this reptile who is crawling about this earth of 
ours in human shape be taken, I shall esteem the publication of the fact 
in this Magazine a favour, for the satisfaction of those who have unfortu- 
nately been deceived and imposed upon by him.— /. F. Cambridge, 
March 6. 1833. 

News of this living libel on our calling has reached us from Oldham, 
Lancashire. We quote as follows: —“ A friend saw him at Stamford. 
He had travelled all night from Cambridge, and when he had got to Stam- 
ford, he ran away without paying his fare. Gern’s proper name is Green, 
and he has lived in Manchester..... He came to Oldham and....he called 
himself a traveller from a Mr. Pope of Birmingham, and had been into Scot- 
land and all the north of England. In short, he has not left a town where 
he has been in Lancashire, and few in Yorkshire, but he has cheated all 
he could out of their money. It would take many sheets of paper to hold 
a relation of the tricks I have heard of his practising..... At Burnley, 


Domestic Notices : — England. 231 


twenty miles hence, he bought a lot of common border tulips (it is said, a 
peck) for five shillings, and, after dressing them, and giving them erand 
new names, has sold out of that bag to the amount of hundreds of pounds.” 
—J.D. 

Skillful Restoration of half-ruined Shrubberies.— Sir, At a gentleman’s 
seat, within twenty miles of London, at which I have lately had occasion 
to call, I was struck with the appearance of the shrubberies. As these 
are different from any I had ever seen before, I shall (with the gardener’s 
permission and assistance) endeavour to give you an account of the 
manner in which they have been treated, as I think that shrubberies in 
general are too much neglected. It appears that, some years ago, when 
the present gardener came to the place, he found them nearly in a wild 
state, except that the ground between them had been annually dug. 
He therefore set about thinning them in good earnest. Nearly all the 
under-shrubs were cut down to within a few feet of the ground; the large 
trees were then thinned out, so that such trees as were not too far gone 
for improvement might stand clear of each other, in order to encourage 
‘them to grow into a handsome shape. The stools were then well cleaned 
‘out ; that is, all useless suckers were taken out, and the mould which had 
been imprudently thrown in was, as far as practicable, taken out, and the 
‘ground raked very fine. It has never since been dug; but every year, as 
soon as the leaves are off, the trees and shrubs are carefully pruned, and 
the leaves are raked out and swept up. By this means, instead of a rough 
brown surface, there is now a covering of moss, which not only looks 
beautiful, but, as the ground is not disturbed, the surface roots are not 
destroyed, nor the ground made unlevel by the common practice of digging 
holes to bury the leaves in. The advantage of thus thinning the trees and 
pruning the shrubs cannot, I think, but be admired by the most careless 
observer.— R. 7. 

Hints on cultivating Commelina ceeléstis ; and on preserving the Bulbs of 
Tigridia Pavonia and conchiflora.— The Commelina ceeléstis is well known 
to thrive, and display its succession of beautifully delicate azure flowers 
in the open borders, during the months of July and August; but on the 
approach of winter a trifling frost is sure to destroy theroots. I have suc- 
cessfully preserved the latter by the following practice: — Plants raised 
from seeds early in the spring will, if planted by the end of April in toler- 
ably rich soil, produce good reots by the autumn. After the stems are 
dead, and removed from the plants, the roots are taken up, and placed 
under the stage in the green-house, or upon the mould contained in large 
pots or boxes which include large plants ; in short, in any part of the green- 
house in which they can be kept in a moist state; and, to secure them in 
this condition, sprinkled occasionally from the rose pan of a watering-pot, 
if they are not damp enough without it: their natural texture is so suc- 
culent, that they will, if kept dry, shrivel and become exhausted, and, if 
suffered to remain in a half-dried state, they will become mouldy and 
rotten. In the beginning of March they should be planted, if in a bed, at 
a foot apart, when they will be much finer and stronger than they were in 
the previous year. By continuing to grow and preserve them in this 
manner, they will improve each succeeding year, and increase by offsets, as 
do the turban and other ranunculuses. The roots which I send with this 
are four and five years old. I have found the bulbs of Tigridia Pavénia 
and conchiflora best preserved in the above manner.— C. Austin, Gar- 
dener to Admiral Sir B. H. Carew. Beddington Park, Surrey, Feb. 27.1833. 

It may not only be said that the C. cceléstis blooms through “ July and 
August,” but until Michaelmas, in most seasons; later even, if frosts come 
not so soon. Than the six fascicles of tubers sent, finer have probably 
mever been seen. The number of tubers in them are severally 11, 14, 18, 

Q 4 


232 Notes on some London Nurseries, 


20, 21, 21, and the stoutest of them are, in the middle, as thick as a full- 
sized cedar pencil, and the longest of them slightly beyond four inches 
long. Ifthe C. cceléstis be grown in a dry border, a yard or so from the 
base of a southern wall, and some of the numerous seeds which it will 
ripen allowed to fall, these will remain unhurt in the soil through the 
winter, and germinate spontaneously late in the following spring: so ex- 
perience has taught J. D. 

The common Mignonette (Reseda odorata) grown to a remarkable Size. — 
Some one of your correspondents enquires (Vol. VIII. p. 374.) about tree 
mignonette. What is wanted with tree mignonette? The common may be 
grown to any height required, or at least to any reasonable height. We have 
it here from four to ten feet high. Ihave now a plant of the latter height, 
in one of Bailley’s iron-roofed conservatories, which he erected here five 
years ago. The plant is quite a pyramid, about eight feet in circumfer- 
ence at its base, and tapers to the top, and forms a’perfect mass of flowers. 
—J. Elles. Palace Gardens, Armagh, Dec. 2. 1852. 

A Prize of a Sovereign for the best Dish of Tubers of O’cxalis crenata 
Jacq., the growth of 1833, was offered by the Devon and Cornwall Hor- 
ticultural Society, at their anniversary meeting, on February 6th, in con- 
sequence of Mr. Mitchell’s information on this plant, supplied in our last 
(p. 78.). The prize was offered to excite to its introduction into, and cul- 
tivation in, that neighbourhood, where it scarcely or not at all exists at 
present. Dr. Hamilton, the distinguished secretary of the above society, 
has written to us to put him in the train for the acquisition of a tuber, or 
some tubers, of the plant, even “if a single tuber so small as to come 
under a frank.” We know not how we can better do this than by pub- 
lishing his wish, and leaving the matter open to any one who has a tuber 
or tubers to spare, or may choose to exhibit for the prize offered. Dr. 
Hamilton’s address is, 14. Oxford Place, Plymouth. — Cond. 


Art. II. Notes on some of the London Nurseries, and on the 
Chiswick Garden. 


SEVERAL foreign nurserymen have visited London this spring, and some 
of them have given considerable orders. One of the Messrs. Booth, of the 
Flotbeck nurseries, near Hamburgh, has been here all the winter. Mr. 
Thorburn, Jun., of New York, has been for some months in this country, 
and has made large purchases. From one firm he took upwards of 5000 
fruit trees. At Messrs. Colvill’s he selected some of the most rare and 
high-priced stove and green-house plants, and even some of the largest 
specimens of the high-priced kinds. Nothing can be more gratifymg to us 
than to see this renewed intimacy between the American and British 
nurserymen, because we feel assured it will lead to the advantage of both 
countries ; not only directly, by reciprocal commercial benefits, but remotely 
and permanently, by making the two nations better acquainted with, and 
more dependent upon, each other. Were the mass of society, in every 
nation, well acquainted with the mass of society in every other nation, the 
whole world would become, as it were, brethren; and it would not be 
possible for the governments of different countries to wage war against 
each other. The Americans and the British, at least as far as respects 
the gardening and horticultural world, have had very little connection 
with each other, since the breaking out of the first French revolution. 
Since that period, and until very lately, the Americans obtained almost 
all their garden seeds from France, as well as what fruit trees they required 
from Europe. About the end of the last century large importations of 
fruit trees were made from France to Montreal, from which nearly the 


and on the Chiswick Garden. 233 


whole of the Union and of British America was supplied. The great 
importer of French seeds was M‘Mahon of Philadelphia; and the 
Montreal nurserymen were, and are, Guilbault and Co. Many others 
have since arisen, and among these, at Montreal, our much esteemed friend 
and correspondent, Mr. Cleghorn. We hope, now that the connection 
between America and England is every year drawing closer and closer, 
that nursery articles will form important objects of export from this 
country; and, indeed, we have no doubt that this will be the case; for so 
high is the price of labour in America, that a London grower can undersell 
the Americans in all their own trees and shrubs. This would be still 
more the case than it is at present, if the south and west of Ireland were 
im such a state as to admit of the safe employment of British capital there 
in nursery cultivation. All Europe might be supplied with nursery 
articles from Ireland, if that country were only tranquil; for there is, per- 
haps, no soil or climate in the world better calculated for the propagation of 
trees and shrubs. yi 

In Colvil?s Nursery there are some fine plants of the Palo de Vaco, or 
Milk Tree, which ought not to be lost sight of by amateurs. Mr. Kewley 
has here extended his siphon mode of heating, with his usual success. It 
is remarkable that, though several attemps have been made, there has not 
been a single successful imitation of this mode. Mr. Kewley is not only 
a thoroughly scientific man, but he possesses the secret of joing his large 
pipes in such a manner as to be perfectly watertight. Some Orchidez, 
here Rena artificially, are ripening their seeds. (See Vol. VIII. 
p- 473. 

In Mr. Knights Nursery, the plants raised from Mr. Baxter’s seeds are 
in excellent condition. The Protedcee are admirable plants. Telopea 
speciosissima is coming into flower. One of the magnificent tree rhodo- 
dendrons is sold to the Duke of Devonshire. 

In Mr. Malcolm’s Nursery, the magnolias are promising abundance of 
blossom, and the stock of American and other peat earth shrubs is a 
sample, and eligible for removal as usual. The heaths, and the other 
green-house plants, look remarkably well at Mr. Lee’s, as do the herbaceous 
plants at the Fulham Nursery. We must, however, defer our further 
observations on these and other nurseries till next Number. — Cond. 

Mr. Dennis and Cos New Grounds, in the King’s Road. — Mr. Dennis 
has been busy, during the autumn and winter, in introducing perennial 
plants and some shrubs into this occupation; and one good-sized green- 
heuse is already erected, and filled with plants. It has a most capacious 
lean-to shed at its back, and under the floor of this a cellar, more than 
6 ft. deep. As the subsoil here is wholly gravel, and consequently dry, 
this cellar will, we presume, be found most eligible for the preservation 
from frost of the tubers of georginas, for the cultivation of a very extensive 
collection of which Mr. Dennis is so noted. He last year flowered that 
choice and remarkable variety, Levick’s Commander in chief, whose 
prettily formed flower is of crimson colour, variegated with darker stripes : 
it is figured in colours in the first number of Harrison’s Floricultural 
Cabinet. While we were with Mr. Dennis, in his grounds in Grosvenor 
Row (March 2d), a basket of georgina tubers, from Rouen, was delivered 
to him, and he informed us that he has, since the autumn, made some 
valuable additions to his collection by choice varieties, which he has pro« 
cured from different parts of this country, and from France and Switzer- 
land, and that he consequently anticipates a corresponding improvement 
in his display next autumn: his additions, he remarked, have been greater 
than in any previous year: he has resolved to commence planting out 
much earlier this year than he did the last. The numerous pelargoniums 
which Mr. Dennis cultivates were looking promisingly, but none of thern 


934 Notes on the Chiswick Garden. 


were yet in flower. Some new varieties have been added to those 
previously possessed. Peréskia Bléo was looking most luxuriantly, and 
showing several buds, in a little propagating stove, kept at a high tem- 
perature, and the atmosphere quite moist. We saw this rosy-blossomed 
‘beauty, and the same plant too, blooming here late in the autumn; so 
that it is hence proved to be a freely flowering species. Among the 
importations, in the end of 1831, from North America, as collected 
there by Mr. Alexander Gordon, we saw blooming Symplocarpus fce’tidus, 
the Podthos foe'tida that was. This plant, figured from a pitiably weak 
specimen in the Botanical Magazine, t. 836., has, by Dr. Hooker, just 
been again figured in the number for March, t. 3224., for the sake of 
enriching that valuable work with a perfect figure of so curious a plant. 
This plant abounds in America, and is there called skunk-weed, from its 
odour resembling that of the skunk weasel (Vivérra mephitis); but what 
part of the plants effuses this odour seems to be nowhere stated. From 
Dr. Hooker’s remarks it would seem to be the fruit which does, but this 
is not stated with poited clearness. Mr. Dennis is quite alive to the 
effectiveness of manual impregnation in promoting the production of seeds, 
and one of his men was at this time applying the pollen to the stigmas of 
a Rhododéndron catawbiénse that had been at this early period forced 
into blossom; the stock of this species in the nurseries is said to be 
becoming quite limited. This was not an instance of cross-impregnation, 
or hybridising, a practice which Mr. Dennis has extensively applied, with 
‘well-known effect, to pelargoniums ; and, more recently, to Cactez ; with 
what result, in the latter case, has yet to be learned, as very few of his 
hybridly origmated seedlings have yet flowered. — J. D. 

The Horticultural Society's Garden is, as might be expected after so 
mild a winter, looking remarkably well. We were particularly gratified 
by observing great part of the wall destined to the acclimatising of half- 
hardy trees and shrubs, protected by a temporary coping, composed of 
wickerwork hurdles covered with drawn wheat-straw mats. The width 
of this coping is about 4 ft.; one end of the hurdles is let into the wall 
under the coping, or is nailed to the top of the wall, and the other rests 
on a slip of deal, supported by props of young fir trees. The appearance 
is simple, of a Doric elegance, and it is most delightful to see the thriving 
state of the trees under it, as well as the plants in the narrow three-feet 
border. This is obviously a much better mode of protection than close 
covering with Russian mats; and, in our opinion, which we have before 
repeatedly stated in this Magazine, it might be carried to an immense 
extent. Why not plant out whole acres of Australian trees and shrubs, 
and protect them during winter in this manner? There is no occasion 
for walls: simply raise the hurdles on poles, such as are used by the 
bricklayers for scaffolding, connected by iron rods, or pieces of narrow 
quartering. Perhaps, indeed, netting coated with Indian rubber, in 
Mr. Mallet’s manner, might be found sufficient. At all events, we have long 
been satisfied that there is an immense deal to be done in the way of 
displaying exotic trees and shrubs in the open air. We do not say that 
species can be rendered hardier in their nature, though individuals may ; 
but we do say that many plants now kept in ereen-houses, and also 
some which are kept in stoves, will eventually be found to do much better 
either in the open ground among other exotics, and protected by a tem- 
porary covering during winter, or planted among hardy deciduous and ever- 
green_trees, so as to be protected bythem. ‘The pine plants are looking 
exceedingly well; and several reforms, changes, and variations have taken, 
and are taking, place in the hot-houses and pits. A new house, wretchedly 
placed (and we must say, that there never was a garden which, either in its 
first arrangement, or its subsequent alterations, displayed so little of simpli- 


Floricultural and Botanical Notices. 235 


city and unity of design as that at Chiswick), has been erected and heated 
by Mr. Perkins, for the growth of orchideous plants ; certainly a remarkable 
order, which seems to serve the same purpose in tropical forests that 
mosses and lichens do in those of temperate regions. Some alterations 
have taken place in the disposition of the trained trees on the different 
fruit walls, which we doubt not will tend to forward the grand object of 
proving and describing fruits. The good which the Society is now doing 
by distributing all over Europe and America scions of all the best apples 
and pears, is greater than can well be estimated. We regret that their 
fruit catalogue is more than double the usual booksellers’ price for such a 
pamphlet ; it ought to have been sold at cost. — Cond. 


Art. II. Moricultural and Botanical Notices of new Plants, and 
of old Plants of Interest, supplementary to the latest Editions of 
the “ Encyclopedia of Plants,” and of the “ Hortus Britannicus.” 


Curtis’s Botanical Magazine ; each monthly Number containing eight plates ; 
3s. 6d. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Hooker, King’s Professor of 
Botany in the University of Glasgow. 

Edwards's Botanical Register; each monthly Number containing eight 
plates ; 4s. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by John Lindley, F.R.S., Pro- 
fessor of Botany in the London University. 

Sweet's British Flower-Garden; each monthly Number containing four 
plates; 3s. coloured, 2s. 3d. plain. Edited by David Don, Esgq., Libra- 
ridn to the Linnzean Society. 

Loddiges’s Botanical Cabinet ; each monthly Number containing ten plates ; 
5s. coloured, 2s. 6d. partly coloured. Edited by Messrs. Loddiges. 


DicortyLEDoNouS PoLYPETALOUS PLANTS. 
IV. Papaveracee. 
1552. PAPA‘VER. 
13777a persicum Lind. Persian © ori12 jn.jl Bri Persia 1830? S co _ Bot. reg. 1570 
“ Tt is an annual which would be pretty if its petals were not so quickly 
deciduous. Its nearest affinity is with P. Argemone.” (Bot. Reg., March.) 
XLVI. Cdctee. 
1472. CE‘REUS. ‘ Br 
125864 Mallisoné Hort. Mallison’s &.—Jor6... C. specioss.-flagellif. 1830. C p.lis Bot. reg. 1565 
“ This must be classed amongst the very best hybrids which fioricul- 
turists have succeeded in obtaining. It was raised a few years ago by 
Mr. Mallison, gardener to Sir Samuel Scott, from a seed of Cereus spe- 
ciosissimus fertilised by the pollen of Céreus flagelliformis : the former the 
well-known erect species with brilliant scarlet blossoms; the latter the 
equally common trailing kind with pale rosy flowers. The result has been 
a hybrid as nearly as possible intermediate between the two parents, having 
all the brilliancy of colour of the female line combined with the prolific 
constitution and trailing habit of the male. It was exhibited for the first 
time at a meeting of the London Horticultural Society, in 1832: the spe« 
cimen was about 2 ft. long, and excited much admiration. It was loaded 
with crimson flowers of the most healthy appearance ; and, what was espe- 
cially remarkable, the colour of its stem was not the dull green of that of 
C. flagelliférmis, but the rich bright hue of that of C. speciosissimus. The 
only plant we are acquainted with is in the possession of Sir Samuel Scott. 
It appears to be a hardy green-house plant, and will doubtless increase 
freely by cuttings.” (Bot. Reg., March.) 
XLVII. Onagrane. 


1183. @NOTHE’RA. 
28196a concinna D. Don comely OQ xorls Pa.Ro Chile 1831. Ss. Sw.fl.gar.2.s.183 


236 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


“ Flowers axillary, about twice the size of those of G.rdsea. Petals 
cloven at the top, of a pale rose colour, and elegantly pencilled with 
branching veins of a deeper tint. It is a hardy annual, of easy culture.” 
The plant was raised by Mr. Lambert, from seeds collected in Chile by Mr. 
Hugh Cuming. (Britsh Plower-Garden, March.) 

LI. Loasez. 

1477. BARTO‘NIA. 
28658. albéscens Gz. white-stalked Ocu2jln PaY Chile 1831. Ss. Sw.fl.gar.2.s.182 

A Chilian novelty, devoid of attractive beauty, already registered in our 
Additional Supplement, but less perfectly than as here given. The species 
naturally “ occupies dry watercourses in the province of Mendoza.” (Bri- 
tish Flower-Garden, March.) 

LXXVII. Legumindse § Sophorez. 


1251. GOMPHOLO‘BIUM. 
10533a capitatum Cun. headed-flwwd. w |_| de 2 jl Y N. Hol. 1830: Ss.p Bot. reg. 1563 


A species nearly allied to the G. tomentosum, but “ distinguished by its 
less-pinnated shorter leaves, which are by no means scabrous on the upper 
side; and by its flowers growing in terminal clusters, instead of singly or 
in pairs. The flowers are also of a bright deep yellow, and not pallid. It 
is also closely allied to the G.lanatum (Cun. JZS.); but its capitate inflo- 
rescence at once distinguishes it.” Raised by Mr. Knight, from seeds col- 
lected by Mr. Baxter. (Bot. Reg., Feb.) 

XCVI. Rhdmnee. Pomadeérris andromedefolia Cunningham is figured 
from the Kew collection in the Bot. Mag. for Feb. 1833. It is a branched 
shrub, with leaves lanceolate-oval, smooth; and, beneath, snowily tomen- 
tose. The flowers, of a rusty aspect, are produced in rather small, dense, 
terminal corymbs. 

CXIIl. Anacardiacee. 


2649. DUVAU/A. 
23319a ovata Lindl. ovate-leaved # \_] or 6 jl Gsh Chile 1824. C1l.p Bot. reg. 1568 


“ This is the third species of Duvata extant in our collections. All of 
them are very handsome evergreen bushes, with a bright shining foliage, - 
which emits a strong but grateful odour when bruised. They will not bear 
the climate of London without protection from frost ; but, if trained to a 
wall, and sheltered by a roof of thatch in winter, they succeed perfectly : 
in short, they are about as hardy as myrtles.” D. ovata blossomed abun- 
dantly in July, 1832, upon a south wall, in the garden of the Horticultural 
Society: in affinity, it is close on D. depéndens. “ It will grow in any 
soil or situation which is dry in summer, and well drained in winter. It 
would probably succeed in the crevices of rocks in Devonshire or Corn- 
wall.” (Bot. Reg., March.) Some of the present species of Duvata were 
once included in the genus Schinus: and for a notice of a remarkable 
quality possessed by the leaves of schinuses, and most probably those of 
duvauas as well, see the next Number. 


DicotyLeDoNous Monopetatous Puanrts. 
CLXX. Ericee § vere. 
1174, MENZIE‘SIA 9944 poliifdlia. 
1 fldre-albo Ma. C. white-flwd #% or ili ... aoe) relamd ces) IGNS!Ph yg) scenes 
2 nana dwarf w or 2 jns P Ireland .... Ls.p Bot. cab. 1907 
Mr. J. T. Mackay, in noticing habitats in Ireland for Erica mediterranea 
and Menziésia poliifolia, also remarks that “a variety of this last, with 
white flowers, of which I have a living specimen in the College Botanic 
Garden, has lately been found growing sparingly with the species itself.” 
Mr. Mackay’s communication is dated Jan. 17. 1831. 
Ericee § Rhodoracee. 


§29, AZA*LEA 4343 péntica. 
% vers{color Lind/. various-cld, %* or 4 mr.my Y,Ro.W Eng.byb, 1827, Ls.p Bot, reg. 1559 


supplementary to Enc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 237 


One of the extremely beautiful hybrid azaleas raised at Highclere, by 
Lord Carnarvon. Ifthe present yield to some of those previously pub- 
lished “ in intensity of colour, it certainly is not surpassed in other 
respects. It is a most abundant flowerer; its blossoms are produced in 
large umbels ; and the variation of tint caused by each corolla being diver- 
sified with bright yellow, rose of different shades, and white, gives the bush 
an air of richness that is rarely to be exceeded. The plant having been 
liberally distributed by order of Lord Carnarvon, and being now to be 
found in many of the choicer coilections of this country, it is to be hoped 
that it will soon become common.” (Bot. Reg., Feb.) 

CLXXI. Epacridee. 


518. LEUCOPO*GON. 
4325a ? parviflorus Lindi. small-flwd. # t_Jcu 2? my W N. Holl. 1790. Cs.p Bot. reg. 1560 
Styphélia parvifldra Bot. Rep. 287. 


An interesting little shrub to botanists, drawn from Lowe’s collection, 
in the Clapton Nursery. It has been long in the country, as Professor 
Lindley proves it to be the Stypheélia parviflora of Andrews’s Botanist’s 
Repository, 287.; which has hitherto, although erroneously, been deemed 
identical with Brown’s Leucopogon lanceolatus. Mr. Cunningham relates 
that he met with one or other species of the genus Leucopogon in abun- 
dance on every coast he visited : amongst them, he has discovered species 
whose characteristics have not yet been published, (Bot. Reg., Feb.) 

CLXXV. Lobeliacee. 

609. LOBE‘LI4A. 
5103a@ colorata Swé. coloured-Jud. y Aj or 5 dp B.O N.America 1832. D p.l Sw.fl.gar.2.s.180 

« Another showy hybrid Lobélia, derived, most probably, from the inter- 
mixture of L. czrulea and L. cardinalis. It formed part of a collection of 
plants received by Mr. Dennis, nurseryman, Chelsea, from North America ; 
and, although sent as a native species, the imperfect nature of the anthers 
clearly establishes its spurious origin: it is, nevertheless, a highly orna- 
mental plant, and is well entitled to a place in the flower-border. The 
stems are tall, straight, and generally unbranched ; occasionally rising to 
the height of 6 ft., and terminated by a long close spike of blue flowers. A 
light soil, composed of sandy loam and peat, appears to suit it best; and 
the plant may be increased, either by parting the roots or by cuttings.” 
(Sweet’s Flower-Garden, Feb.) This is one of the kinds, possessed by 
Mr. Dennis, to which we have adverted in p. 106. 

CLXXXVI. Composite. Lidtris odoratissima is figured in the British 
Flower-Garden for March, t. 184., from the nursery of Mr. Dennis, Chel- 
sea; who, in 1831], introduced, through Mr. Gordon, several plants of it 
from Carolina: it had previously become scarce in our collections. “ It is 
known in North America by the name of ‘ Carolina vanilla plant,’ from the 
delightful fragrance it diffuses, resembling that yielded by a recently cut 
hay-field abounding in the vernal grass (Anthoxanthum odoratum). The 
smell of the dried herbage is even more agreeable; and specimens still 
retain their fragrance after having been kept in the herbarium for more 
than twenty years. The plant requires a peat soil; and it should, when in 
a growing state, be freely supplied with water. It is increased by parting 
the roots.” (British Flower-Garden, March.) 

The Gastrocarpharuncinata D.Don, Hort. Brit., p. 363., is figuredin the 
Botanical Register for Feb. t. 1564., as Moscharia pinnatifida (Hort. Brit., 
p- 328.); the name Moscharia being given to the plant, in the Flora Peru- 
vidna, i expression of its musky odour. As it is a freely growing, 
freely blooming, and freely seeding annual, not unshowy in its numerous 
heads of white flowers, it will probably be shortly spread about ; and we 
have, in consequence, identified the name for it already in Hort. Brit. with 
that by which Mr. Lindley has chosen to publish it. 


2441, MOSCHA‘RIA R. & P. 
22254, pinnatifida R. § P. pinnatifid-vd. O © or2my.o W Chile 1827. Sco Bot. reg. 1564 
Gastrocarpha runcinata D, Don. Mosigia pinnatifida Spreng. 


238 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


CXC. Cinchonicee |} Cinchonez. 
602.. RONDELE'TIA. 
specidsa B. C. showy % Cor 1? ... s Havannah 1830. Cl1.p Bot. cab. 1893 

“ This brilliant plant is a native of the Havannah ; whence we received it, 
through the kindness of our friend W.J. M‘Leay, Esq., in 1830. There 
is a figure in Jacquin’s Americana, which he calls R. odorata, closely 
resembling this, possessing the fragrance of violets; but ours has not the 
slightest scent. The flowers are exceedingly rich in colours; and make a 
most striking appearance, being quite as splendid as those of Ixora coc- 
cinea, if not more so, although our specimen was by no means a strong 
one.” (Bot. Cab., Feb.) 

CCVI. Myrsinea. Myrsine capitellita, the cluster-flowered myrsine, is 
figured in the Botanical Magazine for March, t. 3222. “In Nepal, the 
wood of this tree, and of JZ. semiserrata, is of a chocolate colour; radi- 
ated, compact, and heavy, and much esteemed by the hill people for 
various carpenter’s works: the ripe fruits are also eaten.” 

CCXI. Scrophularinee \ Anther-bearing stamens two. 

55. SCHIZA/NTHUS 477 pinnatus. . 
2 humilis Lindl. dwarf O or 1 jno. Li.C Valparaiso 1831. S1.t Bot. reg. 1562 

“A variety of considerable beauty; distinguished by its very dwarf, 
compact habit, and broader leaves. Raised from Mr. Cuming’s seeds by 
Mr. Campbell. In all its habits, it seems to agree with the species to 
which we refer it as a variety.’ (Bot. Reg., Feb.) This is one of the kinds 
of which we have spoken in Vol. VIII. p. 481. 

65. CALCEOLA‘RIA 577 integrifolia. 
3 viscosissima Hook. most viscose % _oJor3n Bt.Y Chile 1832. Cl.p Bot. mag. 3214 

The leaves are large and ovate, and, as well as the surface of the stems 
and branches, clad with a very viscid pubescence ; “so viscid, indeed, that 
it is difficult to separate specimens from the paper in which they have been 
dried.’ The corymb contains a good many flowers of a “bright but not 
deep yellow.” Dr. Hooker fears to make this more than a variety of C. 
integrifolia, to which it looks considerably unlike. Raised by Mr. Cameron 
of the Birmingham Botanic Garden. (Bot. Mag., Feb.) 

CCXIII. Soldnee. 

859. WITHERI’NGIA. 
purpurea B. C. purple-corollaed %iAjor3su Pa.P Chile 1829. Cr. Bot. cab. 1892 

“ The root is a small roundish tuber, which produces several trailing 
branches ; and these, taken off, strike root readily, and form plants.” (Bot. 
Cab., Feb.) 

591, SOLA‘NUM. 
4714. runcinatum R. & P. runcinate-lud. ¢ A] cu 3 0 W Chile 1831. Sco Sw.fl.gar.2.s.177 

A showy, freely-growing, half-hardy species, which will grow in any soil, 
and may be increased by suckers, cuttings, or seeds. (Drilish Flower- 
Garden, Feb.) 

CCXIV. Acanthacee. 

1727a CALO/PHANES D. Don (Kalos, beautiful ; phaino, to appear ; flowers) 14. 2. 
oblongifdlia D. Don oblong-leaved ye iAJorl au B Carolina 1832. D 1p Sw.fl.gar.2.s,181 
Ruéllia oblongifdlia Michaux. 

“ This is by far the prettiest of the extra-tropical Acanthacez, and is 
really an interesting addition to our hardy border flowers. It is a dwarf 
herbaceous perennial, requiring to be planted in a mixture of loam and 
peat, and is readily increased by parting the roots. It is a native of Ca- 
rolina; and has been but recently introduced by Mr. Dennis, from whose 
collection our drawing was taken in August last.” (British Flower-Garden, 
March.) The corolla is funnel-shaped, of a pale azure colour, three 
fourths of an inch long, and more than half a one over: the flowers are 
rather numerously produced. 


supplementary to Enc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 239. 


MonocoryLepDonous Puants. 


CCXL. Orchidee } Vande. 


2537. MAXILLASRIA. i 
ochroletica B. C. pale yellow> & (AJ or = su.aut Pa.Y Brazil 1830? Dm.v.po Bot. cab.1904 


“ Lately mtroduced. It grows vigorously, and flowers during summer 
and autumn. It is not so splendid as some species of this genus, yet well 
deserves cultivation ; which is not difficult, planted in moss and vegetable 
earth, with fragments of pot intermixed.” (Bot. Cab., March.) 


2540. ONCI/DIUM. [Bot. reg. 1569 
Harrisonidnum Lindl. Mrs, A. Harrison’s & [A] orlo? Y.spot Brazil Mntns. 1830. D moss.r.w 


Named “ after a family more distinguished than any other for the num- 
ber of species of orchideous plants which they have introduced, and for the 
success with which they have cultivated them.” 

“ For what purpose can the world have been adorned with the orchi- 
deous plants? To man or animals they are scarcely ever of any known 
use. No honey is secreted by their flowers; neither poison, medicine, nor 
food is collected in the recesses of their stems ; and their very seeds seem 
unfit for feeding even the smallest birds. We can scarcely suppose them 
provided for the purification of the unwholesome atmosphere of the forest 
recesses in which they delight; for their organisation is that of plants 
whose leaves perform their vital actions too slowly to effect such a pur- 
pose. For what, then, can they have been formed, unless to delight the 
sense of man, to gratify his eye by their gay colours and fantastic forms, 
and to show the inexhaustible fertility of that Creative Power which we 
recognise every where in nature.” 

“If this be not the object of those countless changes of form and 
colour which the orchis tribe exhibits, we shall scarcely comprehend why, 
in this very genus Oncidium, the lip bears at its base a collection of 
tubercles, which are not only different in every species, but so strangely 
varied, that 

‘ Eye of newt, and toe of frog’ 


are the least singular of the forms that lie cowering in the bosom of their 
petals ; the heads of unknown animals, reptiles of unheard-of figures, coils 
of snakes rising as if to dart upon the curious observer, may all be seen in 
the blossoms of the various species, whose very flowers may be likened to 
unearthly insects on the wing.” In O. Harrisonianwn “ one might fancy 
they resemble a bat’s head, of which the downy centre forms the forehead, 
the back tubercles the ears, the horn in front the snout, and the two 
lateral tubercles a pair of flaccid cheeks.” (Bot. Reg., March.) 
Orchidee § Epidéndree. 


2558. BLE‘TTA. 
99754a acutipétala Hook. acute-pet. % Alor 5... Pa.Ro S. Carolina 1831? Op. Bot. mag. 3217 


“ My kind and obliging friend, Mr. Henry Shepherd, of the Liverpool 
Botanic Garden, has, I think, correctly considered this as distinct both 
from B. verecanda and B. flérida”’ (Dr. Hooker in Bot. Mag., Feb.) 


2562. BRASAVO*LA. 
28680a@ Perrin Lindl. Mr. Perrin’s @&(lor1s G.W RioJan. 1831. Dp.xr.w Bot. reg. 1561 


Closely allied to B. nodosa, but “ essentially distinguished byits smaller 
flowers, the short stalk of the labellum, and the toothing of the back lobe 
of the clinandrium. It is by no means so handsome as B. nodosa; but, as 
it grows very freely, it will be esteemed an acquisition by the lovers of 
epiphytes. At the request of Mr. Harrison, it is named after Mr. Perrin, 
his gardener, ungler whose skilful management the collection of epiphytes 
at Aighburgh has arrived at a state of great perfection.” (Bot. Reg., Feb.) 

For notices of Mr. Perrin’s mode of propagating orchideous epiphytes, 
see this Magazine, Vol. VII. p.541., Vol. VILL p. 88. 


3339, 


2918. 


240 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


CCXLI. Scitaminee. 


. HEDY’CHIUM. 


stenopétalum Wal. narrow-petaled ¢ [Aj or 7 mr W India 1830? Dr.l1 Bot. cab, 1902 


Introduced lately by Dr. Wallich. To be cultivated in perfection, it 
should have a large-sized pot and rich loamy soil. It may be increased by 
separating its knobby roots early in the spring. (Bot. Cab., March.) 

CCXLIV. Jincee. 


. XYRIS. 


altissima B. C. tallest ¥ iA) pr 7 o Y N. Holland 1826. S bog Bot. cab. 1900 


The leaves are 6 ft. or 7 ft. long; and the flower-stem is as long, and 
much resembles them; but, at a little distance from the end, it opens and 
becomes a kind of spathe, producing several flowers in succession. They 
came out in October, and each lasted but a single day. (Bot. Cab., Feb.) 

CCXLVII. Asphodelee. 


LEDEBOU’RIA Roth. (C. F. Ledebour, author of Travels in the Altaic Mountains, and of a 
Flora Altdica. This generic name is préoccupied by No. 829.: one of them cannot remain.) 
hyacinthina Roth. Hyacinth-like ¥ LA] cuZ... Gsh.W_ E. Indies 1832, Op.1 Bot. mag. 3226 


An interesting little bulbous plant, with leaves spotted in the manner of 
those of a Lachenalia ; with a short scape or two, each bearing a raceme 
of small drooping, not showy, flowers. The plant is barely in the country 
yet: the figure published was drawn in India. (Bot. Mag., March.) 

CCLI. Lilidcee ? 


CALOCHO/RTUS. 
ldteus Doug. yellow-petaled § A orls.o Y.G.spot California 1831. Os.p Bot. reg. 1567 


A very interesting species of this charming genus. “ It appears to suc- 
ceed perfectly in a north border in sandy peat, and proves hardy. Its 
blossoms, produced in September and October, are not fugitive; but, on 
the contrary, remain without fading for a week or ten days. It is the more 
interesting, as we have nothing at the same season which resembles it at 
all in character.’ The flowers are terminal, two to three on a stem; the 
three sepals green, much narrower than the petals: these are three, each 
yellow at its tip, green in its middle, part spotted with blood colour, and 
furnished with a transverse band of yellow hairs; the base is green and 
smooth. Possessed by the London Horticultural Society, who have yet 
too few bulbs of it to be able to distribute any at present. Introduced by 
the meritorious Douglas. (Bot. Reg., March.) 


FLOWERLEss PLANTs. 


CCLXIV. Filices. 


BLE’/CHNUM 4 1. Fronds pinnated; Pinne entire. 
gracile Otto slender y Welid Br Brazil 1830. Ds.p Bot. cab. 1905 


We have kept this pretty little fern in the stove, in which it appears to 
thrive. (Bot. Cab., March.) 


SEE 


Plants cultivated in the Birmingham Botanic Garden, the Names and Par- 
ticulars of which are wnrecorded in the Hortus Britannicus.— Sir, The 
annexed list is a continuation of plants cultivated here, not recorded in 
your Hortus Britannicus or Additional Supplement. Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 
— David Cameron. Botanic Garden, Edgbaston, near Birmingham, Feb. 28. 
1833. 


208. AIRO/PSIS. 


pulchélla neat Mi A. un 1 ap a0 ceoeny 1831. D co 
1706. BIGNO‘NIA. 

serrulata Wall. serrulate 5 EDO a Be ecto ae E. Indies 1832. C Lp 
adenophylla Wail. glanded-leaved EYES cas on see E. Indies 1832, C lp 
1854. BISCUTE’LLA. 

longifolia long-leaved un . Switzerland 1832. D co 


[If this be the B. longifolia of Villars, it is Decandolle’s var. a of B. saxatilis, No. 16393.] 


supplementary to Enc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 241 


243. BRACHYPO*‘DIUM. 
maximum largest Mlk A un 


i 2 ap Ssoth ) ee etpeaes : 1832. D co 
mexicanum Otto Mexican ak A un 12 ap se Mexico 1832. D co 
1867a CHEIRI’NIA. 

crepidifolia Lk. Crepis-leaved ©or 3 su Y doceco 1831. S co 
112. COMMELINA. 

clandestina Mart. inobvious-fwd. % Alun 1 ju Bsh_ Brazil 1832, Ol.p 
1386. DI AYNTHUS. 

Seguiéri7z Seguier’s ¥ A en, 000 +. Switzerland 1832. C co 
1685. DRACOCE’/PHALUM. 

pinnatum pinnate-lud. VA od) oD boo 000000 1832. DI1.p 
794. GENTIA‘NA dectimbens Pall. decumbent. 

Gébleré Gebler’s B71 (SX OF bo on oon Russia} 1832. D 1p 

HYMENOPY’RAMIS. 

brachiata Waid. arm-dbranched % ie at oe E. Indies 1832, C€ Lp 
2345. I’NULA. 

glabra Bess. smooth BY A, GB too coo c00 990006 1831. D co 
2136. LA’/THYRUS, 

ciliatus Guss. ciliate Oun.. au Pa Naples 1832. S co 
2008. LAVA/TER A. 

salvitellénsis Brign, ©) cl G sulk: seeeee 1831. S co 
1985. LUPI‘NUS. 

exaltatus tall ee TIKae Gea Saco cen oceon0 1832. S 1 
2356. MUTI’SLA. [ Bot. mis. 

dlicifolia Hook. Holly-leaved f# ttor 10 ... 506 S. America 1832, C Lp 

ODONTARRHE NA. 

microphylla Led. small-leaved S/N ue ee me cance 1832. C lp 
1966. ONO‘NIS. 

Denhardtz Ten. Denhardt’s oO 1 au Y Naples 1832. S co 
apula Tew. Apulian (@)) 1 au YG Naples 1832. S co 

97. OXY’BAPHUS. 

chiliénsis But. Chilian * Aor 1 aut Li Chile 1332. S Lp 
2861. PARIETA*‘RIA. 

micrantha small-flowered (O) Wm coo G po0570 1832. S co 
611. PHYTEU‘MA. 

Aimoniifdlium Limonium-leaved ¢ A or Switzerland 1832. D co 


[This, probably, is but asynonyme of P. strictum Rot. Mag. t. 2145. and Hort. Brit. No. 5173., 
as Sir J. E. Smith, in a letter dated July 29. 1826, informed me that P. Zimoniifdlium Flora 
Greca, t. 218., and Campanula /imoniifdlia Z., are but synonymes of the P. strictum ; 
which has been figured in the Bot. Mag. t. 2145. —J. D.] 


1210. POLY’'GONUM. 


oxyspéermum Led. sharp-seeded y Aun, .. 000 Russia 1831. D co 
1737. PRE/MNA. 

aspérrima Wail. roughest [J] Sat aa ues E. Indies 1832. C lp 
1637. RANU/NCULUS. 

garganicus Ten. Garganian Pan AWE) cnn smn 1) Ea Naples 1832. D co 

angulatus Ten. angulated RA JX, OE con co on0 Naples 1832. D co 
1095. RICHARDSO‘N/A. 

stellata S7bbald starry, QOun il jl Ww n0cos0 1832. Sco 


1126. RUMEX. 
montevidénse Spr. | Monte Video Y Aun... .. 000 S. America 1831. D co 
819. SCA’NDIX. 
' brachyearpa Guss. short-fruited © un 1 aut W_ Naples 1828. Sco 
[This was raised in 1828, in the Botanic Garden at Bury St. Edmunds, from seeds given to 
that institution by Mr. Hunneman. Mr. Haworth, to whom, in the same year, I sent 
specimens, replied on August 2. 1833, ‘* new to me and my books.” —J. D.] 
2239. SERRA’TULA. 


glatca Led. glaucous VANS OL ccslies: en Russia 1831. D lp 
591. SOLA*NUM. 

gracile Otto slender LI OP 655-000 CeO sk ual aA 6b 1832, C lp 
1849. THLA/SPI. 

rivale Pres river’s side ¢ Apr £mr NVA parsssee 1832. D l.p 
1749. VERBENA. 

glanduldsa Mor?s. glandulated yiAlun 2 su LEB = ceann f 1832. C lp 
2133. VI/CIA. we 

multicatlis Led. many-stemmed iy A coo .0t6 on Russia 1832. Dip 

pimpinelloides Pimpinella-lud. Y A seciuless one Onoda 1832, D co 


Since I sent the former list [published p. 111.], I have ascertained the following authorities, 
and two or three facts respecting them:— dsphédelus microcarpus Vis. Dalmatia; Chlora 
serétina Koch; Cineraria thyrséidea Led. Russia; Corydalis longiflora Led. pr. 3 f.mr Wsh ; 
Dorénicum macrophyllum H. Got. ; Draba stylaris Gay ; Galium arenarium Loir; Hieracium 
Jacquin# Vill.; Lepidium cordatum /V7.; Sedum altaicum Fisch.; Verénica Michatxz Lam, 


Vou. 1X. — No. 43. R 


242 Retrospective Criticism. 


Art. IV. Retrospective Criticism. 


Correcrions to preceding Numbers. — In Vol. VIII. p. 682., 9th line 
from the bottom, for “ too hardy in their growth,” read “ too tardy in 
their growth.” In Vol. IX. p. 124.,in the Rev. Mr. Bree’s remarks on 
the very slow rotting of the Lémne, for “amos of dried Lémna,” read 
“a mass of dried Lémna.” 

Narcissus (Corbuldria) Bulbocodium is not usually so hardy as represented 
in Vol. VILL. p. 724. and Vol. UX. p. 118.— Notwithstanding what is stated 
by J. D. (Vol. VIII. p.724.), and by Selim (Vol. IX. p. 118.), of the 
hardihood of Narcissus Bulbocodium, I have always found it difficult to 
preserve in the open border. Ihave had the plant repeatedly ; but with 
me it seldom lives more than two or three years, and gradually dwindles 
away. I should be glad to know how to make it thrive in the border. 
From Selim’s remarks, neither frost nor wet seems to be injurious to it in 
a Warwickshire garden. — IW. 7. Bree.  Allesley Rectory, Warwickshire, 
March 8. 1833. 

Mr. Hayward’s Method of training the Peach Tree. (Vol.VIIL. p. 653.) 
— Sir, We have had in this part of Ireland a very fine summer and 
‘autumn ; and heavy crops of fine-flavoured fruit, especially peaches. I 
gathered 101 dozen and ten peaches from four trees. And now, Sir, is it 
not high time that Mr. Hayward’s plan of training trees (Vol. VIII. p. 653.) 
should be thoroughly examined and put into practice, if it possesses those 
superior properties which its apparent complexity would seem to render 
doubtful. When, however, Mr. Hayward states that 700 peaches were 
“ brought to maturity”? upon a tree of five years’ training only, surely, 
however strongly we may be prejudiced in favour of the fan shape, it is 
high time that such a prejudice should be thrown overboard ; and I, for 
one, will endeavour to give his method a fair trial. Ihave one tree, which 
has been no less than ten years planted against a very good wall with a 
‘south-east aspect ; and although I did not find it exactly a fan shape, yet it 
is so now, with the bearing wood trained from the upper side of the 
principal leading branches. This tree covers more than 400 square 
feet ; and ripened, this season, 450 red Magdalen peaches, from 6 oz. to 
8oz. each. I thought this was as good a crop as need be; and yet how 
inferior “to Mr. Hayward’s! and, like him, I not only do not crop my 
peach borders, but, besides the rich manure spread over them, I soak them 
well, in dry weather, with liquid manure; and all this, too, upon a soil 
which may be considered as decidedly a peach soil; and sure I am that I 
left quite enough of fruit for the tree to mature, and to make strong 
vigorous shoots for the ensuing season. I should think it would be satis- 
factory if Mr. Hayward could tell us the average weight of his peaches ; 
for, if his equal the above, there must be some serious defect in Mr, Sey- 
mour’s method to account for such a difference, such a marked discre- 
pancy. I am, Sir, yours, &c. —J. Elles. Palace Gardens, Armagh, Dec. 24. 
1832. 

Mr. W. Green’s Method of training Pear Trees (Vol. VIII. p. 539.) is not 
new. — Sir, Allow me to inform you that the method of training pear 
trees, described by Mr. W. Green, jun., is by no means a new one. I have 
seen pear trees, upwards of thirty years old, trained on precisely the same 
principle ; differing, however, in appearance from the figures of Mr. Green 
(Vol. VILL. p. 539, 540.), by the main branches being subdivided nearer 
to their bases, and by the curves being much more regular and agreeable 
to the eye. In training the trees when young, nails and lines were never 
found necessary: they were simply trained in the fan manner, until the 
branches were sufficiently strong to bear the change of position, when the 


Queries and Answers. 243 


points were brought down to a horizontal direction. —§8. B.W. Jan. 1. 
1835. 

Growing and curing Tobacco in Britain. (p. 121.) — Sir, E. S. again 
speaks on the growing and curing of tobacco (p. 121.), and requests that I 
will send a portion of my production for your examination. This I readily 
do; and the more readily, that he may be satisfied [ did not tender my 
remarks on growing and curing (Vol. VIII. p. 491.) without at least 
having attempted the attainment of these objects; for it is certain I never 
contemplated showing it in competition with any other. It appears that 
BE. S. has improved in his management of late; for, in his previous letter 
(Vol. VILL. p. 42.), he asks for information on the subject; and, in his 
last (Vol. IX. p. 121.), he says “ he is convinced, by long experience, as 
well as by the testimony of others, that his method is right.” As to the 
same means being applicable for making hay and preparing tobacco, I beg 
leave to differ from your correspondent as well as others; for this reason, 
that tobacco should be fermented at intervals during the process of drying, 
to destroy nearly the whole of its greenness and accompanying juices 
before it is stowed away, when it should resume a glow of warmth; con- 
sequently, the dark green colour of that sent to you by E. 8. Ido not look 
upon to be a recommendation. My observation, that it was not equal to 
that imported, could be understood only as applying to my own. I wish 
to take this opportunity of thanking E.S. for stating the result of his 
experience. He says, it does not suit him to let all the world know where 
he is. With respect to myself, it signifies but little; and, as I have no 
wish to send you any thing under false colours, I will fill up the vacancy, 
and subscribe myself, Sir, yours, &e. — C. Austin, Gardener to Admiral Sir 
BL. HH. Carew. Beddingford Park, Surrey, Feb. 27. 1833. 

The tobacco sent, as well the uncut as cut, is, we think, superior to that 
sent by E.S8.: it has less of the sweetly fragrant scent, but an odour more 
strongly narcotic. A smoker, to whom some of the cut was given, reports 
it about equal im strength to the Orinoco of the shops; and that it forms a 
pleasant mild-flavoured tobacco. The gentleman by whom that sent by 
E. 8. was tried agrees in this opinion, and deems it much stronger than 
E.S.’s. On chewing it, he found it almost as strong as shag tobacco; but 
less so than pigtail, the kind he usually chews; and less agreeable, as, 
from its being untwisted, it softened and passed away too rapidly. A 
small sample of C. Austin’s, cut and uncut, is left at 39. Paternoster 
Row, for E.S. to send for if he pleases. — S. 


Art. V. Queries and Answers. 


DIssoLviIne Caoutchouc in Pyroligneous EKther.— Sir, In answer to the 
enquiry of Dr. Wm. Hamilton (Vol. VIIL p.735.), as to “ what is the 
mode of dissolving caoutchouc in pyroligneous ether, and where the latter 
can be obtained?” I beg to say that pyroligneous ether is a product of the 
distillation of wood in the manufacture of pyroligneous acid; and is to be 
obtained from such manufactories, where it is distilled from tar, for the use 
of hatters, who consume a large quantity of it in making varnishes for, I 
believe, silk and waterproof hats. Its price here, in Dublin, is 10s. per 
gallon. The most convenient mode of dissolving caoutchouc in it is ina 
tolerably capacious flask ; to the neck of which another is ground, having 
an opening, also, for a safety-tube, containing a little mercury. The lower 
flask, containing the ether and Indian rubber, is to be heated in a water- 
bath, and a jacket of bibulous paper dropped over the upper flask, and 
kept moist by dropping water from a funnel on it: by which arrargement, 
the ether, which is extremely volatile, will be condensed, and continually 

R 2 


244 Queries and Answers. 


returned upon the caoutchouc. Those who cannot provide such an appa- 
ratus may effect the same purpose ina large phial bottle, by loosely corking 
it, and carefully applying the heat. The Indian rubber very soon dissolves ; 
and, as different specimens require various quantities of ether for complete 
solution, the best way is to make small additions, until a saturated solution 
is obtained. The reason caoutchoue will not dissolve properly in sul- 
phuric ether is in consequence of its containing some alcohol, from which 
it requires to be freed by repeated washing ; for alcohol not only will not 
dissolve Indian rubber, but will actually precipitate it from its ethereal 
solutions. The solution in pyroligneous ether, when well made, is colour- 
less and transparent, the impurities of the caoutchouc being always left 
behind. The varnish, when saturated, must be applied with great rapidity 
and evenness of stroke, otherwise it clogs. When it remains tuskey or 
clammy, the varnished article should be exposed to a current of steam; 
which soon ‘carries off the ether, but leaves the caoutchouc unacted upon ; 
and firmly cohering in its solid state. A solution of Indian rubber may also 
be made in Cajeput oil, which, for some purposes, promises advantages 
over that in ether. Turpentine is a bad solvent of it; but, when used, the 
application of the current of aqueous vapour will always dry the varnish. 
For the purpose of varnishing cord, or other coarse matters, for hor- 
ticultural or other uses, the solution of the Indian rubber, in pyroligneous 
ether, may be mixed with an equal bulk of drying oil, and the matters to 
be varnished either dipped into it, and drained out, or brushed over. I 
shall be happy to give your correspondent any further information in my 
power; and am, Sir, yours, &c.— Robert Mallet, Capel Street, Dublin. 
December, 15. 1832. 

On preserving Cape Heaths from Mildew. (Vol. VIL. p. 736.) — Su, I 
have an extensive collection to attend to, and, perhaps, for a private collec- 
tion, the first in England. My mode of treatment is as follows: I keep 
them in the green-house both summer and winter; I take especial care 
that their tops never get wet, and also that the branches are kept clear from 
damp, dead leaves, insects, and all other kinds of filth attendant on decayed 
leaves, &c.; and for this purpose I use a small brush, such as painters 
usually paint windows with: I use it quite dry, and as often as necessity 
requires; I find, from experience, that the natural consequence of the 
neglect of this treatment is the mildew, particularly in low situations. If 
one of my plants happen to take the mildew, | immediately remove it into 
a separate house, quite apart from the others, or into a cold frame ; for, if 
it were suffered to remain, it will infect every plant in the heathery, and in 
time destroy the whole. I then take a little flour of sulphur, and mix with 
it a little soot, when it will become of a dark green colour (sulphur alone 
would do just as well, but it is not so pleasant to look at to a delicate eye). 
I then put it into a tin box, that has got a lid perforated with small holes, 
or what 1s commonly called a flour duster; I dust the whole of the plant 
with this mixture; and, if this dusting has not the effect of removing it (and 
sometimes it 1s a long time in clearing the plant; I have had plants under 
this operation for three months), you may take the pot, and lay it on its 
side, so that the branches will lie on the ground, and then take a syringe, 
and wash the plant well; afterwards place it in a situation where the wind 
will dry it quickly, then dust it as before. This last mode can only be 
practised safely in dry and warm weather. I hope these few hints will 
prove useful to R. W. (Vol. VILL. p. 736.), and others of your readers. I 
am, Sir, yours, &c.— A Constant Reader. Manchester, Feb. 23. 1823. 

Mildew in Cape Heaths ; Causes and Prevention. — In reply to R. W.’s 
query (Vol. VIII, p. 736.), I may state, the principal causes of mildew 
among Cape heaths are, first, exposing the plants, whilst out of doors 
during summer, to the mid-day sun; and, secondly, the pots getting over- 


Queries and Answers. 245 


drenched with the heavy autumnal rains before they are housed. There 
may be ethers which combine with these to aggravate the disease. 

The best preventive is placing the plants, during summer, behind a wall, 
hedge, or other shelter, so that they may be shaded from the rays of the 
sun for five or six hours in the hottest part of the day, without having 
recourse to awnings of any kind: Jikewise to house them early in autumn, 
in houses where the sashes can be drawn off in fine weather, and put on 
to protect them from heavy rains. For the more delicate species, generally 
kept in pits and frames in summer, the best preventive is to use lights 
glazed with green glass, keeping the lights on from 9 o’clock in the 
morning till 6 in the evening, and giving plenty of air by tilting the lights 
up at the back of the pits and frames, but never to use shading of any 
description. The lights to be drawn entirely off during the night, except 
in rainy weather. With this mode of treatment, slight waterines over- 
head occasionally are beneficial. 

I believe that heaths, or ericas, are nearly exempt from mildew in 
Scotland, owing to their summers being cooler than in England. Nearly 
all the varieties of the garden pea are exempt from mildew there, whilst 
all varieties here are more or less subject to it in autumn. 

I do not consider a pure country air as being indispensably necessary to 
the growth of this graceful family of plants, but believe they may be 
successfully cultivated within the range of the smoke of large towns. 
Some of the more robust-growing species would be well worth trying out 
of doors in a suitable soil in Cornwall. Wishing that some one may be 
able to give a more satisfactory answer than mine to R. W., I am, Sir, 
yours, &e.— EH. B. Feb. 13. 1833. 

What are the fittest Situations and Soils, §c., for acclimatising Exotic 

- Plants in? — Sir, The great number of showy flowering plants introduced 
of late years, from warmer climates, into this country has stimulated 
gardeners to plant out more freely, into the open ground, spare plants from 
the houses, either for the purpose of enlivening the flower-garden during 
summer and autumn with their flowers, or for the purpose of detecting 
such as will endure the rigour of our winters, and add permanently to the 
number of our hardy shrubs and herbaceous plants. If the object of 
planting out be for the former purpose only, it will be attended with 
considerable success, however unfavourable the soil and situation may be, 
when the selection is made from herbaceous plants, and the free-flowering - 
soft-wooded frutescent genera, such as O’xalis, Lobelia, Cineraria, 
Pelargonium, Calceolaria, Salvia, Maurandya, Anagallis, Lophospér- 
mum, &c. 

For the purpose of acclimatising, the favourable situations are com- 
paratively few: therefore, yourself, Sir, or some of your correspondents, 
would, I conceive, render the science of gardening a useful service, by 
indicating the conditions and provisions necessary to make a situation 
favourable for the successful acclimatising of tender plants; such as soil, 
shelter, altitude, whether upon the coast or inland, the latitude of the 
place not always being a sure guide, there being probably as many favour- 
able situations for the purpose to be found upon the banks of the Forth and 
the Tay as upon the banks of the Thames. The required information 
would induce gardeners, in favourable places, to plant out house plants 
more freely, of the hard-wooded genera, such as Camella, Melaletca, 
Hakea, Leptospérmum, Greville, Hrica, Edwardsia, &c. A description 
of situations most unfavourable for the purpose would also be a con- 
solation to gardeners living in such situations; as serving to show to their 
employers the impossibility of their competing with perhaps even a near 
neighbour living in a more favourable locality. I am, Sir, yours, &c. — 
EH, B. Feb. 13. 1833. 

R 3 


246 


A Remedy for the Attacks of Insects on Oak 7 


Covent Garden Market. 


enquired for by J. D. S8., of the Beulah Spa, Norwood, Surrey. LG 


1833. 


Yees, in the leafing season, is 


A new Liquor for destroying Insects, it is said, has been invented by some 


gardeners, or nurserymen, at Liverpool. 
on the subject ? Robert Simpson. 7 


Jan. 12. 1833. 


Can you give us any information 


The Lodge, near Br oadway, Gloucestershire, 


The inventors of this liquor are Mr. Taylor and Mr. Rollins. 


the composition is, they keep a secret ; 


it, which we shall try, and then report upon. — Cond. 


Art. VI. 


The Cabbage Tribe. 


Plants, or Coleworts, p. god. 
Savoys, perdozen - 
Brussels Sprouts, per 3 sieve 
German Greens, or Kale, 
per dozen - Rie 
Broccoli, per bunch : 
White - 2 2 
Green 58 = 
Purple ~ 3S 


Legumes. 


Kidneybeans, forced, per 
hundred - - 


Tubers and Roots. 
per ton 
Potatoes - 5 per ewt. 
per bushel 
Kidney, per bushel - 
Scotch, per bushel = 
New, per pound c 
Jerusalem Artichokes, per 
half sieve - 
Turnips, White, per bunch 
Carrots, per punch: 
Old 2 D 
Young 5 - 
Horn - 
Parsneps, per dozen 
Red Beet, per dozen 
Skirret, per bunch 
Scorzonera, per bundle 
Salsify, per bunch Sih 
Horseradish, per bundle - 
Radishes, Red, per 3 dozen 
hands (24 to 30 each) - 


The Spinach Tribe. 
Spinach jeer sieve - 


per half sieve - 
Sorrel, per half sieve - 


The Onion Tribe. 


Onions, old, per bushel - 
For pickling, per 3 sieve 
When green (Ciboules), 

per bunch 

Leeks, per dozen bunches 

Garlic, per pound > 8 

Shallots, per pound - - 


Asparaginous Plants, 
Salads, &c. 
Asparasus, large, per hund. 
Middling = ° 
Spruce, or small - 

Lettuce, per score: 
~ Cos = S a 
Cabbage - = 
Endive, per score 
Celery, per bundle (12 to 15) 
Small Salads, per punnet - 
Watercress, per dozen small 


bunches - S =a 


From 


eso fS SSoCh% 


og oosccooooesoa coo coe°9o°ocor o 


ooo 


oooo coco 


COM COC PHM, 


to 


cooo Fe tor to RB DRE OOCOcCOo Ce FP PDpNHWORS 


Go CO 


S cOoncon 


DAMINRSESCHOLP BRO ADNHDOSSS 


(o>) 


ow OS 


CONnWF DD 


WHAAD SoS 


cs 


oCen 6 AAD 


Covent Garden Market. 


SSS So SOO 


oe cocecooceo oO ocoooe (=) 


ooo 


ocoo oo 


Socoeso coos 


> 


o 


RREtO FH wrmoesy 


(Js) 


mt 


io) POCORHOFSO or wocowreo 


ror Orto 


coro 


So o/npocTt cot 


SAS S aqoo® 


reco DOOWDS 


SoS ADOCOHNCANS 


on San 


S069 


| 


) 
| 
| 


| Lavender, dried, per dozen 


| Shaddocks, each = os 


Pot and Sweet Herbs. 


Parsley, per halfsieve - 


Tarragon : 
Forced, per dozen bunches 
Dried, per bunch - 

| Fennel, green, per dozen 
bunches - 

| Thyme, per dozen bunches 

| Sage, per dozen bunches - 

Mint, per dozen bunches - 

Marjorarn, dried, per dozen 
bunches - 

Savory, per dozen bunches 

Basil, per dozen bunches 

Rosemary, green, per dozen 
bunches - 


bunches 5 
Tansy, per dozen bunches 


| Stalks and Fruits for Tarts, 


Pickling, &c. 


Rbubarb Stalks, HOES bes 
bundle - 


Edible Fungi and Fuci. 


Mushrooms, per pottle - 
Morels, dried, per pound - 
Tr uffles, per pound i 
En glisl h - a 
Foreign 


Fruits. 


Apples, Dessert, per Buchel 
Nonpareil - 
Reinette grise ~ 
Golden Knob - = 
Baking, per bushel = 
American, per bushel - 
Royal = > u 
Pearmain Ss 2 

Pears, Dessert, per 2 sieve : 
Colmars c a 
Chapman’s Colmars = 
Bon Chretiens, per 100 - 
Baking, per half sieve - 

Almonds, per peck - 

Cranberries, per gallon - 

Chestnuts, French, per peck 

Pine-apples, perpound - 

Cucumbers, Frame, p. brace 

ne -per dozen - 

Oranges ee hundred 

Bitter Cranges fs = = 

per dozen 

Lemmons iss hundred 

Sweet Almonds, per pound 
Brazil Nuts, per bushel - 

| Barcelona Nuts, een peck - 

| Spanish, per peck - = 


From 
a5, Gb 
016 
0 6 0 
0 0 0 
0 3 0 
02 0 
0 2 @ 
Os © 
0 0 10 
0 0 10 
Ol 8 
0 4 0 
O20 
(vale (0) 
010 
(0) al) 
014 0 
012 0 
014 0 


SesooceocosscsosooooooRMHS coroooso 


rary 


— 
WSWNWHWOAWORAGNWAM 


SSSUsSeonconcoscccoccccoso ocococseo 


What 


Sco Oo CSSD CSSD SO of 


Se)" Se) 


essscocoescccooosccococo ooroomwH 


SCO oO FRH COSO wo tor FI 


oo cof 


ray 


ar 
SoOarwrorwr 


but they have sent us a cask of 


So So ROO SsooS Sco oF 


oo So 


Seoaceocesscocecscoeco cooooeco 


London Horticultural Society and Garden. 247 


Observations. — The weather, in the latter part of February, and early in 
March, was very mild and open; the market was abundantly supplied with 
the articles usual at this season, of excellent quality, and at moderate prices : 
the change of weather with severe frost has effected, as yet, but little 
alteration; but its consequences must be felt in the ensuing months, by 
retarding the spring crops, which may give the growers of forced vegetables 
a chance for better prices ; at present they are suffering heavy losses by the 
very low prices which have been made of their articles, such as asparagus, 
seakale, French beans, &c. &c. From whatever cause it may proceed, the 
prices are generally so moderate, as to afford the grower little reward for 
his labour and expenses in producing articles that heretofore used to com- 
pensate him well. Occasionally good prices are obtained, but generally 
otherwise. Onions, which frequently at this season used to make an 
important item of sale, are now so abundant as to be quite unsaleable, in 
any quantity, at any price; and, I presume, many thousands of bushels will 
be wasted and thrown away, or planted for seed ; the price of which is now 
so low as to afford little prospect of remuneration. Potatoes are realising 
much better prices than in the autumn, and are in demand, with the 
prospect of continuing so, as the spring supply of other vegetables will, 
very probably, be late. Broccoli is not supplied so largely as usual at 
this season ; consequently it is in demand, at better prices: as the season 
advances it will probably become scarce. Seakale and asparagus (of course 
forced) are more enquired for, and, as the season advances, will be more 
in request, before it is possible they can be supplied naturally, in any large 
quantities. | The market has been supplied most abundantly with oranges, 
of good quality, and at very low prices; and, from the great stock in hand, 
will continue to be so; the importers will necessarily be heavy losers. 
Apples are in good supply, and, considering the season, at very moderate 
prices: very few have as yet been imported; nor will the prospect warrant 
the risk during the remainder of the present season.— G. C. March 16. 
1833. 


Art. VII. Horticultural Society and Garden. 


FEB. 5. 1833.— Read. A paper on the cultivation of the fig tree, by 
Sir C. M. L. Monck, bart. A note upon the Brabant bellefleur apple, by 
J. Lindley, Esq. 

Exhibited. Cucumbers, and an Enville pine-apple of 3 lbs. weight, from 
Mr. George White, F.H.S. A new seedling warratah camellia, from Mr. 
Thomas Wells, gardener to J. Wells, Esq., F. H. S. 

From the Garden of the Society. Flowers: Chimonanthus fragrans, 
fragrans parviflorus, fragrans grandiflorus; Justicia coccinea and Adhdtoda, 
Echeveria gibbiflora, Gastonza palmata.— Fruit. Apples: Reinette du 
Canada, Court pendu plat, Dutch Mignonne, Alsopus Spitzemberg, 
Scariet Nonpareil, Green Nonpareil, London Pippin, Finouillet Rouge, 
Belledge Pippin, Api Panaché, Rymer, Norfolk Beaufin, Royal Reinette, 
Alfriston, Norfolk Paradise; Grosse a cuire, a good kitchen apple; Api 
Gros, Pennock’s Large Red Winter, Black Annette, Tulip. Pears: 
Easter Beurré, Winter Bon Chrétien. Berries of Passiflora quadrangularis. 

Feb. 19. — Read. A Paper on the Growth of Dwarf Apple Trees, by 
Mr. Thomas Blake. Notes upon some French stewing Pears, by Dr. 
Lindley. 

Exlubited. Twenty-four sorts of apple, from Mr. Joseph Kirke. From 
Messrs. Chandler, a hybrid amaryliis, Cypripedium venistum, E/pacris 
nivalis and impréssa, Caméllia concinna, Wilton, pompone, Press’s single 
white-striped, Gray’s Rosa mundi, A collection of flower-pots of various 
patterns, from Sir Frederick Fowke, Lowesby Hall, Leicestershire. 

‘ R 4 


248 Provincial Horticultural Societies :— 


Also, from the Society's Garden. Ruéllia microphylla, Azalea indica, a 
splendid hybrid variety of; Begonia trens, Gesnéria Douglas; Caméllia 
althzezeflora, imbricata, anemoneflora alba; Justicia flavicoma, Euphérbia 
bilabris, 15 sorts of apple, 3 sorts of pear, black Spanish radish, 5 sorts of 
apple from Mr. G. Lindley, and a radish between the black Spanish and 
white turnip radish, from A. Seton, Esq. 

Distributed. Grafts of Knight’s early black, and the Elton cherries, of 
the Washington and Reine Claude violette plums, and of Hubbard’s pear- 
main apple. 

March. 5.— Read. Notes on the Maclura aurantiaca, or Osage apple, 
by Mr. Wm. Skirving. A Paper on the preservation of seeds, by Mr. 
C. M. Willich. : 

Exhibited. Queen Caroline and aromatic russet apples, and unnamed 
pears, from Richard Brook, Esq. Hybrid rhododendron, between R. 
arboreum and &. catawbiénse, from Mr. Henry Burn, Tottenham Park. 
Hamburgh, Black Tripoli, and Charlesworth Tokay grapes, Wollaton 
pippin, aid Rheum undulatum, from Mr. R. Buck of Blackheath. Maclura 
aurantiaca, or osage orange or apple, from Lord Stanley. Models of the 
spouts of Chinese watering-pots, and an improved rose for water-pots, 
from John Reeves, Esq. Azalea indica, from Mr. Snow, gardener to 
J. H. Palmer, Esq. Camellias, and Cyclamen coum and vérnum, from 
Messrs. Chandler. 

From the Societys Garden. Flowers: Helléborus odorus, a hybrid 
Azalea indica, Caméllia anemoneflora Alba and Colvilli, crocuses, Thun- 
bérgia coccinea, Acacia dectrrens, Rhododéndron datricum  semper- 
virens. 

Distributed. Grafts of Beurré diel, Easter beurré, and Beurré rance 
pears, and of Boston russet and Brabant bellefleur apples. 

Among the kinds of fruit exhibited from the garden, on January 15., as 
reported, p. 128., the Parmentier is a sort of russet; Redding’s Nonpareil, 
a small but high-flavoured kind. Pears: of the Easter Beurré, a few 
were sent, but the generality were not yet in perfection; Bon Chrétien 
Ture, a very abundant bearer as a standard, growing to a large size, said to 
bea good stewing pear. The Downton Nonpareil Apple, from T. A. Knight, 
Esq. This is an excellent, sharp, rich-flavoured, handsome apple, highly 
deserying of notice. The first time of its being exhibited. 


Art. VIII. Provincial Horticultural Societies. 


HuNTINGDONSHIRE. — Huntingdon Horticultural Society. July 25. 1832. 
Carnations, picotees, georginas, and fruits were the subjects exhibited. 
This Society admits competitors from any place, under certain regulations. 
Mr. Wood, Mr. Franklin, and Mr. Twitchett (Cambridge), were distin- 
guished winners among the prizes offered for flowers ; and Mr. Hyland won 
a majority of those offered for gooseberries. (Cambridge Chronicle, Aug. 3. 
1822. 

ane Floral and Horticultural Society. — July 30. 1832. This show 
is described as inferior to former ones. Carnations, georginas, stove, green- 
house, and hardy herbaceous plants, fruits, and vegetables were exhibited. 
A New Providence Pine weighed 12 lbs. 50z. One of the stove plants 
shown was Portlandia grandiflora. The gooseberr:es were large, and in 
great variety and abundance: the kinds which won prizes are, Roaring 
Lion, Gunner, and Eagle. In the carnation family, the best scarlet 
bizarre was Walmsley’s William the Fourth; the best pink bizarre, Duke 
of Kent; the best purple flake, Turner’s Princess Charlotte ; the best rose 
flake, Fletcher’s Duchess of Devonshire; the best purple-striped picotee, 


Huntingdonshire, Lancashire. 949 


a 


Albion ; the best red-feathered picotee, Russell’s Incomparable ; the best 
scarlet flake, Dr. Barnes; the best purple-feathered picotee, Princess Vic- 
toria. In addition, Cartwright’s Rainbow, Admiral Rodney, Mount Etna, 
Favourite, and Jasper formed part of a pan of carnations, to which (shown 
by Mr. John Ashworth) the amateur subscription cup was awarded. 
(Manchester Guardian, Aug. 4. 1832.) 

Manchester Botanical and Horticultural Society.—Sept. 10. 1832. This 
show for fruit and vegetables was held in the Botanic Garden. “ Whether 
we consider the quality of the productions which were then exhibited, or 
the number and respectability of the company assembled, it has seldom 
been our pleasure to advert to a more interesting occasion. When it is 
remembered that but little more than two years have elapsed since the 
garden was opened to the subscribers, and that at that period it was in no 
great degree of forwardness, undoubtedly very considerable exertions have 
been made to advance it to its present state. Each member having been 
supplied with an additional ticket for the admission of his friends, it is cal- 
culated that upwards of 3000 persons were thus enabled to participate the 
enjoyment of the delightful scene.” A seedling pine, named the Black 
Prince, from the garden of John Entwisle, Esg., was much admired, as 
were grapes from the houses of Thomas Trafford, Esq. The prizes awarded 
are fifteen, and of these thirteen are to esquires, one to the Rev. John 
Clowes, and one to Mr. J. H. Stanway- The following remarks doubtless 
relate to the garden: — “ We understand that the present list of heredi- 
tary members amounts to 404; that each hereditary share is now 25/., and 
two guineas annual subscription; eighteen being the number of life members, 
the subscription of which class will continue at the present rate of 10/., and 
2l. 2s. per annum, until the number of 200 shall have been obtained, when 
this subscription also will beadvanced to all individuals who may subsequently 
enter the society.” (iVheeler’s Manchester Chronicle, Sept. 15. 1832.) 

Rochdale Floral and Horticultural Society.— April 25. 1832, A good 
many auriculas were shown, and Booth’s Freedom won the premier 
prize. Various flowering plants, both tender and hardy, were exhibited. 
Of these we mention, tender, Strelitzia reginee, Corree‘a specidsa, Metro- 
sidéros lanceolata, Crinum australe, Burchéllia capénsis, and Ixdra coc- 
cinea; hardy, Trillium grandiflorum, Claytonia virginica, Sanguinaria 
canadénsis, 2hododéndron Chameecistus, and Menziésia ceertlea. 

May 30. Tulips were the leading articles at this show. Comte 
de Vergennes won the premier prize. Among the green-house plants, Bo- 
ronia serrulata, and Erythrina Crista-galli each won a prize, as did other 

_plants. Among the hardy plants which won prizes we name Dodeci- 
theon Meadia var. élegans, O’robus varius, Primula farindsa var. alba, 
Onésma tatricum, Ammyrsine buxifolia. 

July 11. 1832. Pinks and ranunculuses were the primary objects of 
attention at this show. Suwarrow won the premier prize of the pinks. 
Among the tender plants which won prizes, we name Hibiscus Rosa sinén- 
sis, and Lilium longiflorum: the latter plant is commonly deemed hardy, 
but a little shelter may be advantageous. Of the hardy plants, Campanula 
macrantha, Cypripedium spectabile, Lilium céncolor, Andrémeda pulve- 
rulénta and casstnitolia, and Kaulfassia amelloides are those which please us 
best amongst those exhibited. Besides these, there were exhibited pelar- 
goniums, roses, fruits, and vegetables. 

Sept. 20. Carnations and picotees were numerously exhibited at this 
show. There were, besides, georginas, house and hardy flowering plants, 
fruits, and vegetables. Among the prize-rewarded house plants were 
Clethra arborea, Erythrina Crista-g4lli and Nerium spléndens. Among the 
prized hardy plants, Gaillardia aristata, Menzicésia poliifdlia, and Potentilla 
floribinda, 


250 Prov. Hort, Societies : — Northamptonshire, 


NortTuampronsuire. — Northamptonshire United Horticultural Society. 
June 29. The show was well supplied with plants and flowers, including 
many varieties of pink. Among fruits, pines, grapes, melons, and straw- 
berries were shown. Mr. Atkins’s hybrid calceolaria (p. 724.) won a 
prize; as did a Cereus phyllanthdides from Lord Southampton’s, on 
which were from 300 to 400 blossoms. Rhatford’s gigantic rhubarb won 
an extra-prize; and five cottagers’ prizes were awarded. (Northampton 
Free Press, Suly 7. 1832.) 

Aug. 27. This show was richly furnished ; and the carnations, picotees, 
and georginas exhibited were numerous. There were also roses, cocks- 
combs, balsams, stove plants, green-house plants, geraniums, and hardy 
herbaceous plants; a good supply of fruits; and some vegetables. The 
specimens particularly worthy of notice were some extraordinarily fine 
pines from Earl Spencer’s; some very fine grapes from E. Bouverie, Esq., 
one berry of which measured 5in. in circumference. The cottagers’ spe- 
cimens were particularly fine, and the competitors very numerous. 
(Northampton Mercury, Aug. 4:. 1832.) 

SOMERSETSHIRE. — Bristol and Clifton Horticultural Society. July 24. 
1832. Carnations, picotees, fruits, vegetables, and flowering plants, were 
exhibited. We may mention, among the hardy plants, Hydrangea querci- 
folia; Gladiolus natalénsis, wrongly called by its name, second as to the time 
of inventing it, psittacinus ; and Dracocéphalum argunénse. Tender plants, 
Rochea falcata; Hrica ampullacea, viridiflora, and Eweridna; Amaryllis 
striatiflora supérba, Xylophyla latifolia; Sinningéa guttata, Héller?, and 
velutina; Escallonia rubra, and Swainsonia galegifolia. There was a con- 
test in the morning between Messrs. Miller, Jacques, Maule, and Chambers, 
as to who should exhibit the finest carnations for two silver cups; when 
the umpires awarded the first prize to Mr. Miller, and the second to Mr. 
Jacques. The flowers were superb, and excelled any in the room. (Bris- 
tol Mirror, July 28. 1832.) 

Sept. 11. There was a copious supply of fruits at this show, and nume- 
rous prizes for them were awarded. Of vegetables, flowers (mainly 
georginas ), and plants, there was a pretty good supply. Several cottagers 
obtained prizes. In the competition for nurserymen’s prizes, some choice 
plants were exhibited ; and Mr. Maule obtained upwards of a dozen prizes. 
Among ericas and other matters exhibited by Mr. Miller, the distinguished 
honorary secretary of this Society, were variegated yuccas. (Bristol Mir- 
ror, Sept. 15. 1832.) 

Taunton and West Somerset Horticultural Society. — Sept. 5. 1832. Of 
flowers there appeared a great profusion, particularly of georginas and 
German China asters. The fruits were in most tempting variety, and the 
supply was unusually great. Both in fruits and vegetables, some very 
astonishing productions appeared; but, in the awarding of prizes, size 
generally yielded to flavour. Among the vegetables exhibited was a very 
curious serpent cucumber, which, when suspended, had almost the appear- 
ance of a green snake. It exceeded 3 ft. in length. The collection at the 
doors amounted to nearly 20/. Gladiolus natalénsis won a prize, as did 
several seedling georginas. Nine prizes were awarded to cottagers. An 
Enville pine weighed 93 lbs., and a queen pine 43 lbs. Of the nurserymen’s 
prizes, Mr. James Veitch and Mr. John Young won nearly all: there were 
several for seedling georginas of various colours, and two for German 
China asters. Mr. John Young won a prize for beet (Poirée & carte 
blanche), and an extra-prize for Polish potatoes. (Zaunton Courier, 
Sept. 12.) 

SuFFOLK. — Ipswich Hortieultural Society. Sept. 11.1832. This was the 
fourth show in the present year. The exhibition was decidedly the best 
of the season, and highly gratifying to an unusually numerous company. 


Somersetshire, Suffolk, Sussex, Wiltshire. 251 


Mr.Woollard, secretary to the Society, read a paper on the cultivation of 
the hyacinth, by which he had obtained bulbs larger than any of those from 
Holland. One important point is, to plant the bulb 10 in. below the sur- 
face, instead of 3in. or 4 in., as is the common practice. The thanks of the 
meeting were voted to Mr. Woollard; and his paper was ordered to be 
transmitted to the London Horticultural Society. A seedling georgina, 
striped red and yellow, raised by Mr. Buchanan of Stowmarket, was much 
admired ; as were also some remarkably fine Hawthorndens, grown by Mr. 
Jackson ; indeed, they were allowed to be larger than any ever seen by 
the horticulturists present. This is the fifth year Mr. Jackson has obtained 
the prize for fruit from the same trees. (Suffolk Chronicle, Sept. 15. 1832. 

Bury St. Edmunds Horticultural Society. — Sept. 4. 1832. The display 
of georginas surpassed every other exhibition of the kind since the form- 
ation of the Society. Mr. Buchanan’s prize seedling was an object of 
general admiration: it was crimson striped with yellow, and of perfect 
form. A seedling of equal merit was shown by Mr. Felgate of Stowmar- 
ket: it was the darkest flower the reporter had ever seen, and perfectly 
formed. The new scarlet-fleshed melon, shown by Mr. Rogers, at Red- 
grave, won a prize for excellence of flavour. Mr. Marriott of Stowmarket 
ebtaimed the prize for a seedling nectarine; Robert Bevan, Esq., showed 
Hedychium flavéscens in bloom in a pot, to which a prize was awarded ; 
as was one to Mr. Hodson, fora plant of Lobéléa specidsa. The secretary, 
Mr. J. H. Payne, obtained the prize for the best box or glass of honey, not 
less than 15 lbs.. obtained by deprivations. Six prizes were awarded to 
cottagers. (Suffolk Chronicle, Sept. 15. 1832.) . 

Sussex. — Chichester Horticultural Society. July 2. 1832. Fruit, flowers, 
and vegetables were the subjects shown. Some curious bulbs trom Africa, 
the Psidium Cattleyanwm, or guava, loaded with fruit, and varieties of 
Erythrina, full blown, were the objects of primary admiration : these were 
from Lord Selsey’s. (Portsmouth Herald, July 7. 1832.) 

Newick Horticultural Society. — Sept. 27. 1832. In sympathy for the 
exhibiters who did not win prizes, it is remarked : —“ It should be remem- 
bered by those who may be too sanguine of success, that, where competi- 
tors are numerous, the chance of excelling is decreased ; but the value of 
the reward of merit is proportionally enhanced.” We notice this remark 
for the sake of stating that its principle has been acted on in some reports 
of shows sent us, in which the number of competitors for every prize is 
stated. Among various apples were some of Shepherd’s seedling, from 
the tree which first introduced the variety into this part of the country ; 
and of Cameron’s pippin, so named at this meeting, in honour of Mr. Ca- 
meron, who raised it from seed. It was deemed by the judges an excellent 
apple, and a desirable variety for cultivation. A basket of limes was shown 
by Mrs. Newton, Southover. A prize was awarded to a beautiful seedling 
georgina, raised by Mr. Read, delicately shaded red and white, and named 
by the president Read’s Radiata. A hybrid melon, raised by Mr. Taylor, 
and named the Cottage Prize Melon, was of very superior flavour, and won 
a prize. Miss P. Partington exhibited a basket of beautiful apples, of a 
variety raised from seed: these were much admired, and the variety was 
deemed by the judges as possessed of extraordinary merit; the president 
named it the Offham Seedling. Georginas abounded at this show: Mr. 
Cameron displayed nearly 200 varieties, and Mr. Wood upwards of 100. 
The cottagers’ prizes were numerous; and there were, besides, rewards to 
those whose gardens were found in the best condition at the time appointed 
for the exhibition. (Sussex Advertiser.) 

Wi.tsuire. — Wilts and General Arboricultural, Horticultural, and Bo- 
tanical Society. July 20. 1832. A choice collection of plants, fruits, and 
vegetables, and some flowers, were exhibited. We name the following : — 


252 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


Billbérgia nudicatlis, Gesnéria macrostichya, Jatropha pandurefolia, 
Brugmansia suavéolens, Gladiolus natalénsis, Lilium longiflorum, Haman- 
anthus punfceus. Four prizes were awarded to cottagers ; and, of six extra- 
prizes, one was awarded to Mr. Hamilton for a lemon queen pine. 

Sept. 4. A very fine display of flowers, fruits, and vegetables was ex- 
hibited. The new bulbous plants belonging to the Hon. Mrs. Alfred 
Harrison were particularly admired, and the whole collection of fruits was 
of the first order. In looking through the list, the objects more worthy to 
be mentioned are, Epidéndrum nutans, Clitoria ternatea, Cypripedium 
ventistum, Bignonia Chamberlayne?, Brugmansia suaveolens. ‘Six prizes 
were awarded to five cottagers; and extra-prizes were appropriated to 
the following objects: — To Hedychium Gardnerianum, shown by Mr. 
Downey; to Stachytarpheta mutdbilis, shown by Mr. Bryant ; for fruit of 
the Piménta vuleiris, shown by Mr. Shennan; for last year’s onions, shown 
by Mr. Langden. 

WorcestTersuire. — Worcestershire Horticultural and Floral Society. 
June 19. Among other interesting objects, there were shown, a magni- 
ficent Nérium spléndens, Héya carnosa, with pellucid honey-drops hanging 
from its umbels of waxlike flowers; and on the specimen were several 
follicles of seeds, an unusual circumstance. A lofty Lavatera arborea was 
exhibited, and a particularly fine Kalmra latifolia. Mr. Kendall exhibited 
flowers of a hundred different kinds of Pelargonium. There was a good 
display of flowers of Raninculus. 

July 19. Carnations, picotees, georginas, and various flowers were the 
objects exhibited at this show. Among the fruit were a good many fine 
gooseberries; and there were currants, raspberries, peaches, nectarines, 
apples, cherries, and strawberries: the Elton and Chilian kinds of straw- 
berry won the prizes. Among the vegetables we see nought to notice. In 
the extra-prizes are Humea élegans, shown by Arthur Skey, Esq.; Gna- 
phalium eximium, shown by Mr. Kendall; citron water-melons, and Ce- 
phalonian melons, shown by J. C. Kent, Esq. (Worcester Herald, July 28. 
1832.) 

YorksuireE. — York Floricultural Show. Sept. 24. 1832. Georginas 
were mainly the flowers shown; and on a table, in the centre of the guild- 
hall, were arranged upwards of 1500 georgina blossoms in bottles, besides 
a very large number in trays. A vase of beautiful artificial flowers, the 
production of Mr. Johnstone, the cook at the Black Swan, was exhibited. 
The flowers were not made of the usual materials, but cut with a penknife 
out of the turnip, carrot, and beet-root. Here we saw the rose, the sun- 
flower, the marigold, the ranunculus, &c., tastefully arranged ; and this 
unique specimen of art was much admired, and received a prize. The 
proceeds of this show, it had been made known, were to be applied to aid 
the funds of the dispensary, so much impaired by the prevalence of the 
cholera in York. A shilling each person (6d. for children) was charged at 
the door; and by this means, by the amount of subscriptions, by the sale 
of some flowers, and by some prize-money returned, 33/. 13s. 8d. were 
raised ; which, when the amount of prizes awarded, and all expenses, were 
deducted, left a donation to the dispensary of 12/. 15s. 10d. (Yorkshire 
Gazette, Sept. 29.) 

Hull Floral and Horticultural Society. — Aug. 6. 1832. The show con- 
sisted of carnations, picotees, green-house plants, bouquets, gooseberries, 
melons, and grapes. In the carnation family, the winning yellow picotees 
were Goldfinch, Amelia, and Empress of Austria: we have not room for 
the names of numerous kinds in the other classes. Of gooseberries, the 
winning kinds, Red, Crown Bob, Roaring Lion, and Sportsman; yellow, 
Royal Sovereign and Rockwood; white, Eagle; green, Ocean. Neérium 
Oleander and Stapelia Asterias won the prizes for green-house plants. 
(Hull and Rockingham Gazette, Aug. 11. 1832.) 


Worcestershire, Yorksh ire, Scotland. 253 


Whitby Floral and Horticultural Society. — Sept. 25. The first show of 
this Society, held at this date, was an emulous and satisfactory one. “The 
Society promises to become quite a favourite institution.” (Yorkshire 
Gazette, Sept. 29. 1832.) 


; SCOTLAND. 


Caledonian Horticultural Society. — Sept. 5. 1832. Peaches, nectarines, 
plums, and grapes, from open walls, hot walls, and glazed roofs, were 
the objects exhibited. The award of prizes we pass over, as the kinds 
which won them are not new. Of “ several uncommon articles of a me- 
ritorious character,’ the following are reported on : — A seedling peach, 
with yellow flesh, raised by Mr. James Smith, gardener to the Earl of 
Hopetoun, at Hopetoun House garden, from an American seed: the fla- 
vour was excellent. For this production the Society’s silver medal was 
awarded to Mr. Smith, who also exhibited a basket of jargonelle pears, 
from a standard jargonelle tree engrafted on a common whitethorn. Two 
seedling nectarines and a seedling peach, from Edmonstone garden, raised 
by Mr. John Macnaughton, were regarded as promising fruits. Very fine 
specimens of two seedling grapes, from Erskine House garden, were 
shown. For these kinds of grape the Society’s silver medal was last year 
awarded to Mr. George Shiells; and the committee had new the grati- 
fication to find that the quality of the fruit had improved, as they expected 
it to do, with the age of the vine. These seedling grapes may now be 
rinked with those of established character. Two seedling apricots, raised 
from the Moorpark, by Mr. Archibald Gorrie of Annat gardens, were 
found to be of a promising character, they being the first produce of trees 
four years old. Mr. David Brewster, gardener to the Hon. R. Lindsay at 
Balcarres, displayed specimens of spring-sown Portugal onions, six of 
them weighing 5 lbs. 20z.; and one of them was 14in. in circumference, 
(Scotsman, Sept. 8. 1832.) 

Exhibition at the Experimental Garden at Inverleith. — July 5. 1832. 
From an early hour in the morning, showy exotics were seen continually 
arriving at the garden: the aggregate assemblage of them filled a stage 
about 60 ft. long, and this rather crowdedly. An extensive awning covered 
the whole. Many of the richest shrubby specimens were not sent for com- 
petition, but for exhibition only. This was the case, in particular, with 
those from the royal botanic garden. The medal for the six finest and 
rarest herbaceous exotics was awarded to Mr. William Brackenbridge, 
gardener to Mr. Neill, Canonmills, for Tropze‘olum pentaphyllum, Alstro- 
meria tricolor, Stylidium fasciculatum, Salpigldssis picta, Verbéna venosa, 
and Nepénthes distillatoria. Pinks were numerously shown, and the prizes 
for them well contested. An extra-medal was awarded to Mr. John Street, 
flower-gardener to the Hon. Mrs. Nisbet, for a collection of seedling roses 
raised by lim in the open border at Beil. Other seedling roses were sent by 
Mr. John Clephane, at Hailes; and a third collection of considerable merit 
was produced by Mr. Barnet, from seed sown in thee xperimental garden in 
1827. We despair of conveying any idea of the splendid gifts of Flora 
which adorned the stage: ‘we believe, a richer or more varied exhibition 
has seldom been witnessed. The most magnificent plants were from the 
botanic garden under the excellent management of Mr. M‘Nab. The 
Cape heaths, for size and beauty, were altogether matchless, particularly 
huge bushes of Hrica spuria, Dickensoniana, pree’gnans, metuleflora, and tri- 
color. E’pacris grandiflora was very beautiful; and two uncommonly 
large plants of Kalmia latifolia, of the white and the pink varieties, 
covered with a profusion of blossom, attracted every eye. We likewise 
remarked some exquisite heaths from the collection of Professor Dunbar 
at Rosepark, particularly rica florida alba and Hrica timida; a very large 


254 Prov. Hort. Soc. : — Aberdeenshire, Dumfriesshire, 


yellow China rose tree ; with Alstréméria pulchélla, and Gloxinia speciosa, 
of large size and great beauty. Mr. Cunningham, the botanical nurseryman 
at Comely Bank, exhibited some rare and choice articles; among others, 
Fiachsia globosa, and Francoa appendiculata, both new plants ; and brilliant 
specimens of Cereus phyllanthdides and speciosissimus. A noble Cyeas re- 
voltita, or sago tree, with several fine specimens of the cardinal flower, and 
a number of rich and showy baisams, were from the admirable nursery of 
Messrs. Dickson and Co., Leith Walk; and Messrs. Dickson and Sons, of 
the Inverleith Nursery, had likewise an extensive collection on the stage, 
including a very large plant of Petunia phcenicea D. Don, Cereus Acker- 
mann?, Maurandya Parkinsoni, with a very complete series of the new hybrid 
calceolarias. Several fine plants were marked as sent from Edmondstone, 
the seat of John Wauchope, Esq. ; among which we particularly remarked 
Sutherlandza frutéscens and Diésma imbricata. A collection of the genus 
I‘ris in flower, including J‘ris falva, and several of the newest and rarest 
kinds of peony, particularly Paonia albiflora,*Reevési, Pottsz, Whitley:, 
and Humei, were from the curious garden of David Falconar, Esq., of 
Carlowrie ; and some uncommon and elegant sorts of flowers were marked 
as from the garden of the Right Hon. Sir Robert Liston, at Millburn 
Tower. Fruits were exhibited, but nothing is remarked on them worth 
quoting. The company which attended the exhibition was, as might be 
expected, extremely numerous, and of the most genteel description. Upon 
the whole, the exhibition and promenade went off with much éclat. We 
know that, on occasions of former exhibitions, the funds of the Horticul- 
tural Society suffered considerably. This was to be regretted; but it is 
pleasant to learn that che receipts of last week will reimburse former losses : 
and we are sure that no one grudged the shilling. (Edinburgh Advertiser, 
July 20. 1832.) 

Lhe North British Professional Gardeners’ Society. — August 8. 1832. 
Grapes, melons, gooseberries, carnations, hardy annuals, and turnips, were 
the objects exhibited; and, for each of these, prizes were awarded. A 
prize was awarded for an essay on the culture of the melon, to Mr. Wm. 
Cuthbertson, gardener to Wm. Patison, Esq., Williamfield. An extra-prize 
was awarded to John Smeal, gardener to Sir Robert Liston, Millburn 
Tower, for a beautiful and very Ingenious model of a frame, with peculiar 
machinery, for growing balsams, &c., invented by him, and presented to 
the Society ; accompanied by a very superior balsam grown in it, anda 
description of its various properties. Mr. David Burton, gardener to the 
Dean of Faculty, Granton, exhibited four very large, beautiful, and distinct 
varieties of Callidpsis bicolor. (Scotsman, Aug. 18. 1832.) 

Sept. 12. Flowers and fruits, in abundance and variety, were exhibited ; 
and six pears of the Green Yair variety, from Rose Mount garden, weighed 
2 lbs. 40z. A prize was awarded, for the best essay on the culture of 
georginas, to Mr. Dugald M‘Ewen, gardener, Beechwood; and, for the 
second best, to William Patison, jun., Esq., Williamfield. (Caledonian 
Mercury, Sept. 20. 1832.) 

ABERDEENSHIRE. — Horticultural Society. August 29. 1832. Melons, 
peaches, nectarines, apricots, grapes. apples, plums, gooseberries, carna- 
tions, and georginas, were the objects exhibited. A prize for seedling 
carnations was awarded to David Gairns, gardener to J. M. Nicholson, 
Esq., of Glenbervie. A schoolmaster, Mr. Robert Adam, of Nether 
Banchory, won the prize for the 12 best georginas. Mr. George Cardno, 
gardener to William Hogarth, Esq., Woodhill, won the prize for the best 
six seedling georginas. The extra-medal was awarded to Mr. Alexander 
Diack, nurseryman, Mile End, for a dozen of seedling apples upon a twig 
that had never been engrafted. (Aberdeen Journal, Sept. 5. 1832.) 

DuMFRIEssHIRE. — Dumfries and Galloway Horticultural Society. Sept. 


Forfarshire, Perthshire, Renfrewshire, Selkirkshire. 255 


13. 1832. Peaches, nectarines, grapes, plums, melons, wall pears, wall 
apples, and standard apples, and other fruits, flowering plants, hardy cut 
flowers, and vegetables, are the subjects in which prizes were awarded. 
Two prizes were awarded to cottagers. An extra-prize was awarded to 
Mr. A. M‘Gillivray for a new seedling apple. The show of flowers and 
fruit was very fine. (Dumfries Courier, Sept. 18. 1832.) 

ForFarsHire. — Dundee Horticultural Society. Sept. 14. 1832. Carna- 
tions, georginas, peaches, nectarines, plums, grapes, apples, pears, figs, 
melons, pines, vegetables, and flowers, were the objects exhibited. A 
splendid variety of georginas exhibited from the nurseries of Messrs. 
Urquhart and Sons, Scouringburn, and from that of Mr. David Stewart, 
Lilybank. A singular curiosity was produced from the garden of David 
Martin, Esq., of Roseangle, viz. a young rose plant bearing a flower bud, 
the seed of which had only been sown last January. Several plants from 
New South Wales were exhibited by Dr. Bovier, who has lately returned 
thence. After the dinner, which followed the show, and at which about 100 
gentlemen (including gardeners) died, among various toasts was one by 
Mr. David Anderson, “ to the health of Mr. David Douglas, a gentleman 
from this quarter, whose ardent pursuit of botanical science had led him 
to penetrate into distant regions.” (Dundee Courier, Sept. 18. 1832.) 

PertTusHiIRE. — Royal Perthshire Horticultural Society. August 31. 1832. 
Major Murray Belshes is a warm friend to this Society. In addition to the 
handsome medal presented to it, he has added a valuable donation of 
books of reference on horticulture, for the use of the members, and has 
prevailed on William the Fourth to allow the title of royal to be prefixed 
to the Society’s previous title. On this day the objects to which prizes 
were awarded were flowers, carnations, hollyhocks, georginas, stocks, 
hardy herbaceous perennial and annual plants, fruits, gooseberries, me- 
lons, apricots, peaches, nectarines, plums, grapes, pine apples, pears, apples, 
cherries, and figs; vegetables besides. The medal presented by Major 
Murray Belshes to be awarded this season to the most successful com- 
petitor in vegetables, was gained by Mr. Moyes, at Segeieden. The 
reporter remarks, “ We noticed a new vegetable from Scone, the Phyto- 
lacca decandra, used in America like asparagus and spinach, and also a 
plate of what are called Topinambour jaune, or yellow Jerusalem potatoes, 
from Delvine. (Perthshire Courier, Sept. 6. 1832.) 

RENFREWSHIRE. — West Renfrewshire Horticultural Society. July 4. 
1832. Pinks, vegetables, strawberries, and nosegays, and flowering plants, 
were the principal subjects of exhibition. In addition to the prize articles, 
a variety of shrubs in flower, and several lots of superb irises, sweet 
williams, and violets, were exhibited by Messrs. Malcom Service, James 
Kirkpatrick, Robert Guthrie, and John M‘Nab. (Greenock Advertiser, 
July 13. 1832.) 

Sept. 12. For seedling georginas three prizes were awarded. Various 
prizes were allotted to various flowers, fruits, and vegetables. Mr. John 
Borthwick, nursery and seedsman, Greenock, exhibited a large display of 
double georginas, many of which were very fine, and greatly admired. 
The articles produced, both for competition and show, were of the first- 
rate quality, and reflected great credit on the respective cultivators. This 
Society has a library. (Greenock Advertiser, Sept. 20. 1822.) 

SELKIRKSHIRE. — Melrose, Selkirk, and Galashiels Horticultural Society. 
August 1. 1832. Gooseberries, melons, nosegays of annual flowers, nose- 
gay from not fewer than 12 species of perennial herbaceous plants, roses, 
plums, and apples, were the articles exhibited. All the fruit shown was 
very superior, and the flowers were tastefully put up, and well selected. 
The visiters, of whom there were a great many, seemed highly gratified 
with the exhibition. (Caledonian Mercury, August 4, 1832.) 


256 Obituary. 


STIRLINGSHIRE. — Sfirling Horticultural Society. Sept. 13.1832. This 
was a very rich exhibition, and was numerously visited: it was held under 
the extensive sheds of the corn-market, the entrance to which, as well as 
the pillars within, were previously decorated with evergreens and wreaths 
of flowers. The articles shown were georginas, hollyhocks, carnations, 
stocks, pentstemons, annuals tender and hardy, calceolarias, grapes, melons, 
peaches, nectarines, apricots, plums, apples, pears, gourds, and vegetables. 
OF two prize gourds, one weighed 58 Ibs., the other 55 Ibs. A drumhead 
and red cabbage weighed together 84 lbs. A medal offered for a pine- 
apple was won by Mr. James Smith, at Callendar Park. Two new varieties 
of grape were shown from Tullyallan Castle. Tripoli onions, 12 inches in 
circumference, from Archdeck House. From Daniel Ferguson, apprentice 
gardener at Blairdrummond, was shown, a model of a moss house, about 
three feet high: this specimen of rural architecture excited general appro- 
bation, and reflects no small credit on the taste and ingenuity of the juve- 
nile constructor. (Stirling Advertiser, Sept. 21. 1832.) 

Falkirk Horticultural Society. August 17. 1832. The show held at this 
date appears to have been this Society’s first, and it was an auspicious 
one. There was a gratifying display of tender exotic plants, and of fruits, 
vegetables and flowers. Among the plants were, Petunia phoenicea D. Don, 
Psidium Cattleyanum, beautiful in its flowers and fruit; and eight hybrid 
calceolarias, including four new varieties from seeds saved by Mr. D. 
M‘Naughton, gardener to Thomas Hagart, Esq., of Bantaskine. (Scots- 
man, August 29. 1832.) 


IRELAND. 


County or Antrim. — Belfast Horticultural Society. Sept. 11. The 
exhibitors were numerous, and the competition is stated to have been 
spirited. Some fine fruit of the grenadilla were exhibited from Mount- 
stewart, and a new specimen of silver beet from James Goddard, Hsq. The 
spectacle presented by the rooms was imposing in the highest degree; the 
walls decorated with festoons of laurel; the tables covered with splendid 
specimens of fruit both native and exotic, or glowing with the various hues 
of the beautiful georginas; the extremities of the apartment occupied by 
the bands of Lord Donegall and of the 90th regiment, which alternately 
played during the entire morning, and every space filled with animated 
and ever-changing groups, formed altogether a spectacle which would have 
done credit to the larger means of the metropolitan societies. (Belfast 
News Letter, Sept. 14. 1832.) 


Art. 1X. Obituary. 

Diep, at Biel, in Haddingtonshire, Feb. 12. 1833, Mr. Robert Blackie, 
gardener, in the 65th year of his age, and the 45th year of his service in 
that situation; highly respected, and much regretted. Mr. Blackie was a 
most excellent man, a very superior gardener, and a sincere friend to every 
lover of his art. Those gardeners who have visited the beautiful grounds 
under his charge at Biel will not soon forget his hospitality and attention. 
Mr. Blackie kept these grounds in the first-rate style; the wall trees, along 
the architectural terraces, and in the kitchen-garden, are perfect models 
of training, and remain to attest his industry, skill, and taste. — D. F, 
March 20. 1833. ; 

Died, on March 12. 1833, aged 71 years, Mr. Stephen Allen, market- 
gardener, Bramford, Suffolk; father of the present Mr. William Ely Allen, 
gardener to the Rev. M. G. Edgar, Red House, near Ipswich. (Suffolk 
Chronicle, March 16. 1833.) Se 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
JUNE, 1833. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Art. 1. Notes and Reflections made during a Tour through Part 
of France and Germany, in the Autumn of the Year 1828. By 
the ConpucTor. 


(Continued from p. 159.) 


We shall give our remarks on the gardens which we saw in 
Germany, in 1828, in three separate articles, viz., on those of 
Baden, Bavaria, and Wirtemberg. 

The gardens at Schwezingen have been already described in 
the Encyc. of Gardening, and we shall only add what occurred 
to us when we walked over them in November, 1828. The 
surface is perfectly flat, and the soil a light sand. When 
in high order, in the summer season, and filled with company, 
these grounds may, no doubt, produce considerable splen- 
dour of effect; but it must be confessed that they look very 
much better upon paper than they do in reality. Some of 
the ornamental buildings are substantial and picturesque: the 
one that pleased us most was the artificial ruins of a Roman 
aqueduct. (jig. 70.) The ruins of the temple of Mercury 
(fig. 71.) are also very well managed. Socompletely are these 
gardens open to the public, that travellers, desirous of seeing 
them, drive, without asking leave, through the lodges, and 
under an archway in the chateau, and set down at once in the 
centre of the garden, where the guide quickly makes his ap- 
pearance, and shows and explains every part in detail. It is 
clear that a great part of the enjoyment of the proprietor 
must consist in seeing the pleasure which his garden gives to 

Vou. IX.— No. 44. s 


258 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


a 
ay, 


strangers. In the spacious orangery here, there are 465 
large orange trees, between 200 and 300 years old; myrtles 


1 


having trunks 6 in. in diameter, pomegranates, sweet bays, 


common laurels, laurustinus, and arbutus, trained like orange 
trees. In the arboretum, which contains a considerable num- 
ber of species, each genus forms an irregular group on turf, 
and each species is named. In the pits belonging to this 
garden, thousands of China roses are struck from cuttings 
annually, and given away to whoever promises to take care of 


them. In consequence of this, the China rose, as well as other. 


Park and Gardens at Carlsruhe. 259 


ornamental plants, may be seen in almost every cottage garden 
in Baden. There is a very large collection of green-house 
plants at Schwezingen, including 140 species of Erica. Most 
of the hot-houses are constructed with opaque roofs, or with 
span roofs, having the northern half opaque; but there are 
one or two newer ones with sloping glass, in the English 
manner. Pine-apples are grown, but not with much success. 
There is a good kitchen-garden; but, as the grand duke re- 
sides here only during summer, winter forcing is not carried 
on. This garden contains some handsome standard pear 
trees, trained in the pyramidal manner; but we are informed 
that they produce a great deal of wood, and very little fruit. 
These grounds, taking them altogether, are of that kind of 
which a very accurate idea may be formed from the ground 
plan and description; because they are perfectly flat, without 
exterior prospect, and are every where the work of art. We 
were neither surprised nor disappointed, but walked through 
them with a feeling of having been there before. This must 
be always more or less the case with gardens or parks, on 
flat surfaces, of which correct plans and views have been pub- 
lished. A great defect in this garden is the want of ever- 
greens. 

The Park and Gardens at Carlsruhe are, like those of 
Schwezingen, situated on a level surface; and, like them, 
may be perfectly comprehended from the published plans and 
views. ‘The ground plan of the park we have given in the 
Encyc. of Gardening. It consists of a natural forest of oaks 
and pines, pierced with thirty-two avenues, all radiating from 
the central tower of the chateau or palace. The palace 
(fig. 72.) is a heavy hospital-like building, dull and dreary 
without, and ill-furnished and neglected Siting It is however 
noticed by Sulzer (Théorie des [Blu Arts, &c.), and by 
Hirschfeld, as one of the finest in Germany ; and as re- 
markable, in that country, for having the wings at an oblique 
angle with the main body of the building. Behind, exactly 
in the centre of a circle, the cir auiiteernence. of which fori the 
promenade, is a tower, which commands a bird’s eye view 
of the whole park, pleasure and kitchen gardens, the town 
and church (the former greatly enlarged since these grounds 
were laid out), and of the surrounding country, far into 
France on one side, and to the mountains of the Black Forest 
on the other. The park and gardens, together with the pa- 
lace, were laid out by Berceau, a French architect, in 1715. 
In the parterres were curious patterns strewed with different- 
coloured sands, broken glass, porcelain, shells, &c. ; the main 


walks were bordered “adh box, and yew and hornbeam hedges. 
Sin 


260 - Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


NS 


13 


Ah 
Sony 


UT 


i ti nis we 
: L “tut HI 


| ae) 
iE 


These have been since destroyed, and an open lawn, varied 
by groups in the natural manner, forms now the main feature 
from the garden front of the palace. The natural forest 
scenery is increased in interest by the introduction of exotics, 
and especially evergreens, along the margins of the alleys and 
walks. Here the hemlock spruce, Norway spruce, silver fir, 
Weymouth pine, and arbor vite have an admirable effect. 
Except in front of the palace, there are scarcely any glades 
of turf; and there being, in consequence, very little mowing, 
and no clipping of hedges, the pleasure-ground part of 
Carlsruhe garden is kept up at very little expense.. Ex- 
clusively of the gardens, there is a park for deer of 400. 
acres. 9 6-783 nae Pana Pe. 

‘All the Gardens and Park Scenery at Carlsruhe are at ail 
‘times open to the public; and they are rendered the more 
agreeable, during the summer season, by a band of music 
which perambulates the ground, and is heard, at short in- 
tervals, from morning till night. The gardener who showed 
us through the grounds in 1828, M. Napoléon Vernier, a 
Frenchman, a poet, and an enthusiast, informed us that it was 
delightful to work in them, because the nightingale sang from 
the evening till the morning; the military band began to 
practise before breakfast; the rehearsal at the opera house, 
which is close to the garden, succeeded; and this was fol- 
lowed by the ambulating band in the woods, which continued 
to play during the remainder of the day. 

The Villa and Gardens of Watthalden, near Ettlingen, con- 


Villacand Gardens of Watthalden. 261 


tain about sixty acres, and were laid ouf, in the English 
manner, about 1820, by the late M. Hartweg of Carlsruhe 
(whose son, a highly educated intelligent youth, is now in 
London, endeavouring to get into some botanic garden, to 
work asajourneyman). ‘They are situated on the irregular 
declivity of a hill, and display very extensive views over a flat 
country to the Rhine. The disposition of the plantations in 
groups is good; and the mixture of cultivated : spots, corn 
crops, and vineyards gives a character of usefulness which is 
agreeable, because it is humble and universal. ‘The upper 
part of the hill is covered with natural woods, which stretch 
along the summits of other hills, till they join the Black 
Forest. ‘The house (jig. 73.) is in no respect remarkable, 
but it is commodious. 


This garden is open to the public under the following con- 
ditions, which are printed in large characters, and placarded 
on a board at the entrance gate: — ‘‘ Whenever the gates 
are opened, every one that chooses may enter in, on the fol- 
lowing conditions: Ist, not straying out of the paths; 2d, 
neither gathering leaves, flowers, seeds, or fruits, nor breaking 
off shoots of trees; 3d, not letting children go without 
attendants; 4th, not bringing in dogs; 5th, neither writing 
on statues, walls, or other objects, nor cutting letters. in the 
E ete aes 3.3 pus 


262 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


bark of trees; and 6th, not smoking.” The proprietor of this 
villa, in 1828, was Bersted, the prime minister of the Grand 
Duke of Baden. 

Public Gardens at Carlsruhe. —Several of the streets and 
squares are planted with rows of trees. In one of them is a 
fine avenue of Platanus; in another, one of Catdlpa ; several 
of Acacia; and the trees in front of the barracks are Z’sculus 
carnea and rubicinda. In the open space in front of the 
palace are triple and quadruple lines of trees, of a variety of 
sorts; and among these are placed, during the summer season, 
some hundreds of large orange trees in tubs, covered with 
blossoms and fruits. The fragrance thus diffused through the 
town in the beginning of summer, with the music of the birds 
in the surrounding woods, is said to be delightful, and 
altogether unequalled in Germany. All the public have the 
enjoyment, not only of. these orange groves, and of the public 
English garden, but of the park and gardens of the grand 
duke. Indeed, a prince in Germany enjoys nothing in the 
open air that is not partaken by all his people; and from this 
circumstance we in part account for the continued existence, 
at so advanced a period of society, of so many petty princes, 
each with immense palaces and extensive gardens. The 
people are highly taxed to keep up these gardens; but they 
have almost as much enjoyment of them as if they were their 
own. One of the finest circumstances in Carlsruhe is, that in 


74, oo PERE 


SY 


wR 
3 


aS =. 


i 


i 
| 


i 
[ 


es up to the gates of 
the city. ‘These gates are very handsome; one of them, the 
Durlacher Thor (fg. 74.), is by the architect Miiller ; and the 


Public Gardens at Carlisruhe. 263 


other, the Ettlinger Thor (jig. 75), is by the celebrated 
Weinbrenner, who may. be designated the ‘Nicholson of 
Germany. 


75 


22= cai 
BICC} 


a EL 
QUOC TATE 


MUMS MA | I ZR KIO 
REGNANTE CAROLO PROJER 


RIC.G.M.ES.RIP.E, 


A 


Sees UME ONG 
: Hal ili 


The public English Garden at Carlsruhe contains about sixty 
acres of a perfectly flat surface, and a piece of water. It is 
surrounded and crossed in all directions by winding roads, 
which give it that degree of sameness, as a natural garden, 
which the Bois de Boulogne, near Paris, has as an artificial 
‘one. ‘The conspicuous defect in the plantations at Carlsruhe 
is the want of evergreens. ‘This want, however, does not 
result from any ignorance, on the part of the planters of trees, 

_of the different species of evergreens that are to be pur- 
chased in European nurseries, but from the great severity 
_of the winters, which destroys, if not every year, at least every 
‘three or feur years, when a winter is unusually severe, many 
_of: the species. . a 
The Garden of the Margravine Amelia (fig. 76.) is situated 
_in the suburbs of Carlsruhe. It lies on both sides of a street. 
It contains about a dozen acres, laid out in 1809, in the 
natural style, by Hartweg.. There are some handsome. gar- 
den buildings, and some artificial inequalities of surface, very 
_well managed. An archway under the public road connects 
. the one garden with the other. The road is concealed from 
the house and the grounds by raised mounds, sloping gently 
backwards from the road; and the carriages and horsemen 
passing are pointed to as apparently in the garden, seeming 


to be considered as objects of interest rather than of dislike. 
s 4 


264 


Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


This, indeed, is 
generally the case 
in Germany. The 
following are de- 
tails : — 


a, Villa. 

b, Orangery with 
flower-garden in 
front. 

ce, Rockwork which 
forms the entrance 
to a tunnel under 
the road. 

d, Water. 

e, Place for refuse. 

Jf; Summer house. 

g, Villa and offices 
for a friend. 

h, Salad-garden. 

2, Public road. 


The Villa of 
Christina, Queen 
of Sweden, at 
Baden, is one of 


‘the handsomest 


in the duchy, as 
far as respects 
the grounds. The 


surface is. the 


“irregular side. of 


a hill, beautifully 


‘varied in itself, 


and containing 
finely diversified 
and picturesque 
views of the vale 
of Baden, and 
the finely wooded 
hills which form 
its boundary. The 
groundswere laid 
out, in 1821, from 
a design of M. 
Hartweg’s, by M. 
Arnold, who was 
gardener there, 
when we visited 
it, in 1828. The 
trees and shrubs 
are planted in 


~  .< Cemetery at Carlsruhe. pL 265. 


masses, each containing only one kind, in Sckell’s manner ; and 
a most judicious use is “made of spruce firs, bird-cherries, Hips 
pophae rhamnoides, Amorpha fruticosa, yellow-barked ash, 
bladder-nut, acacia, golden willow, fly honeysuckle, red dog- 
wood, privet, lilac, Spirge’a, &c., all of which present irregular 
masses of distinct colours from their bark, even in the winter 
season. ‘The only want here, like every avliene else in Ger- 
many, is of evergreens. The walks are laid with good gravel 
of a grey colour, from a stream which passes through the 
grounds ; and (what we found rare in Germany in 1828) they 
are filled to the brim. The great defect of walks in Germany 
is the same as that which is so common in Britain, viz., that 
they are sunk into the ground, instead of seeming to be 
formed on a level with it. 

The principal Cemetery at Carlsruhe (fig. 77.) is at a short 
distance from the town. There are some straight and wind- 


ing walks through it, a number of groups of trees, and a 
great many monuments, mostly, however, in bad taste. The 
monument of the poet Stilling is a large block of rough stone, 
cracked in several places, but with an inscription across the 
principal rent, as shown in the foreground. ‘The most com- 
mon shrub in this burial-ground we found to be the Hypé- 
ricum Kalmzanum; the principal trees, the weeping birch. 
and weeping willow: there is a considerable variety of herb- 
aceous plants, both annuals and perennials, 
The Burial-Ground at Baden (fiz. 78.) is remarkable for a 

piece of rockwork called the Oehlberg (Mount of Olives). 


266° Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


On this are three clothed figures, larger than life, represent-~ 
ing three of the disciples. worshipping a figure of Jesus 


. mi 


i 
aye 
SO 


Christ, which is placed on the summit of the rock. In this 
burial-ground, as in most others in Catholic countries, is a 
large and conspicuous crucifix in stone, the sculpture of 
which is considered to be remarkably well executed. There 
is a plain chapel for the usual purposes, and a number of 
trees and bushes are sprinkled among the tombs; but no 
flowers, the situation being low, and the soil clayey and 
moist. Here the children are buried in a place by them- 
selves, to economise space, as at Kinzigthal. Their little 
graves are distinguished by crosses and crowns of white 
satin, ornamented with everlastings of different colours, and 
with artificial roses, wallflowers, &c., made of paper. 

The Botanic Garden at Carlsruhe has been noticed at 
length in our third volume (p. 205.), when giving a review 
of M. Hartweg’s Catalogue. This excellent man died in 
1830, and the garden is now under the management of 
M. Zeiher.. We visited the Carlsruhe garden in Novem- 
ber, 1828, and found it exceedingly well stocked and well 
kept. Among the fine specimens which it contained were, 
Wistarza Consequana, covering the end of a house, and 
ripening annually -a great - ‘number of seeds; Andromeda: 
arborea, twelve feet high, also ripening seeds; Magnolia 
macrophylla, ten feet high, flowering freely. In the “stove, 
Chame'rops himilis, with fruit, fiona which, as at Berlin, 
young plants had been raised; Curtisza faginea, very large ; 
Passiflora maliformis, ripening abundance of fruit every year ; 


Botanic Garden at Carlsruhe. 267 


Vallisnéria spiralis; Phormium ténax, which has ripened 
seed; and Técoma radicans, which has attained a large size, 
and is probably as hardy as the native shrubs; Sophora ja- 
ponica, very large; Zamarix gallica, twelve feet high; and 
Salisbirza, male and female. hododéndron pénticum is 
here protected during winter with fern; while R. maxi- 
mum requires no protection. All the American plants in 
this garden, and also in the pleasure-ground, are grown in 
rotten wood and leaves. There is a very large orangery, 
which was formerly a theatre. The Scarabze'us nasicOrnis is 
hatched from eggs inserted in the bark beds; and the perfect 
insect flies about in the open air; and, while it excites 
attention by its singular form, does harm to nothing. But 
the greatest curiosity in this garden is a weeping willow, 
planted in 1787, which was nearly thrown down by. a storm 
in 1816. One branch was cut off, and an oaken prop was 
put under the other. (fg. 79. a.) ‘The willow sent down a 


= 
Sey 


> 


N 


root under the decayed bark of this oak prop, which, in 
1829, being increased to about the thickness of a man’s 
arm (5), burst from the bark; and it is supposed that, in a 
few years, it will render the oaken prop superfluous. Ina 
building in this garden is a very complete collection of seeds, 
of sections of wood, and a herbarium, The different seeds 


268 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


are enclosed in broad flat glass phials, named, and placed on 
narrow shelves, in the order of the Linnzean system. There 
is a separate set of specimens of culinary seeds, named, and 
covered with a glass case; and also a set of forest-tree seeds. 
The different sorts of kidneybeans are placed on a board 
divided into small squares, like a draught-board. 

In Baden horticulture is far advanced. The kitchen- 
garden of the palace at Carlsruhe contains five or six acres, 
and appeared to us, in November, 1822, to be well managed. 
The pines are grown in pits in the summer time, and re- 
moved to shelves, in houses with opaque roofs and nearly 
perpendicular front glass, in the winter time. On the 28th 
of November the pines were still chiefly in the pits, and a 
great many had ripe fruit. They are generally taken in on 
the 1st of December, and taken out again on the Ist of 
March. About 300 ripe pines are used every year for the 
purpose of making wine, which is found to be of an extra- 
ordinarily good quality: and four hundred are annually cut 
for eating. There are pines on the grand duke’s table every 
week in the year. The plants are grown in soil composed of 
two parts of mould formed from rotten dung and leaves, one 
part and a half of turf from a meadow, broken into small 
pieces, but not sifted, and half a part of sand. Fruiting is 
not effected in a shorter period than three years. Figs are 
grown here under glass, for the purpose of forcing; but 
they, and also peaches, bear in the open air as standards. 
There is a large winter house, in which we found large knoll 
celery, kohl-rabi, cauliflower, Italian broccoli; red, green, 
chard, and white beet; large black radishes, scorzonera, 
parsley, leeks, endive, lettuce, lamb lettuce, and other articles, 
in large quantities, planted in beds of earth. Young carrots 
and young turnips are grown all the winter, in pits covered 
with glass, and protected from the frost every night by straw 
mats. These articles, with young onions and leeks, are 
gathered almost every day during the winter for soups. The 
varieties of kohl-rabi, borecole, and runkel ruben (green beet) 
grown in this garden are among the most beautiful that we 
have seen in Germany. Mushrooms are grown in frames 
with boards instead of sashes, with dung linings, and under 
the stages of the pine-stoves. ; 

The Kitchen-Garden of the old Castle of Ettlingen is worthy 
of notice. It contains eight or ten acres, surrounded and 
subdivided by walls of stone about twelve feet high, with 
rafters laid under the ceping six feet apart, and projecting on 
each side about two feet. ‘These projections are for the pur- 
pose of retaining rolls of strong matting, which were for- 


The Black Forest. 269 
merly let down at night, and during severe weather, to 
protect the blossoms in spring. The walls, like almost all 
garden walls in Germany, are covered with wooden trellis- 
work. ‘The trees trained are partly peaches and apricots, 
but chiefly the reinette de Canada apple. Trees of this, as 
well as of other varieties of apples, grow perfectly well in the 
open air as standards; but the fruit is found to be much 
larger when the tree is trained against a wall. In the borders 
and quarters of the garden are pears en pyramide, and apples 
en tonnoir. ‘The most common apple cultivated in this gar- 
den is the Rambourg, a large variety of Calville, known, 
when shaken, by the rattling of its seeds in their cells. This 
garden belongs to a ruined chateau, part of which is said to 
have been built by the Romans 100 years before Christ. 
There are about thirty such chateaux, with their gardens in 
ruins, all belonging to the grand duke, in different parts of 
the grand duchy of Baden, and all open to the public, who, 
in fact, use them as their own; a poor consolation for being 
heavily taxed to keep them up. 

The celebrated Black Forest, in the duchy of Baden, though 
once covered with wood, is now, for the greater part, bare. 
Two districts of forest which still remain consist, the one 
chiefly of silver and spruce firs and pines, and the other of 
oaks ; some of the latter being of great size and age. (Vol. IV. 
p- 492.) <A plantation of Pinus rubra was made in the park 
at Carlsruhe: the trees were, in 1828, thirty years old, and 
forty feet high; but whether their timber is superior to that 
of Pinus sylvéstris remains to be proved. ‘The Quércus 
pedunculata and sessiliflora are here believed to be varieties 
of the same species, Quércus Robur. Quércus pedunculata 
is said to be more abundant on moist ground; for instance, 
on the borders of the Rhine. In the woods of Carlsruhe, 
which form part of the forest of Hartwald, both sorts produce 
equally tall, straight, sound, and durable timber. ‘The oak 
grows at Carlsruhe with very great luxuriance ; and it is not 
uncommon to find leaves from twelve to fourteen inches long, 
and from six to eight inches broad. A superior variety of 
the Pinus sylvéstris is grown on the Rhine, about Rastadt, 
on the German side, and near Hagenau, on that of France. 
Seeds are sent to various parts of Europe from seedsmen in 
Rastadt and Hagenau. 


(To be continued.) 


270 Horticultural Jottanda 


Art. II. Horticultural Jottanda of a recent Continental Tour. 
By Rosert MAtret, Esq. 


(Continued from p. 29.) 


In the enlivening sunshine of the morning, fresh from the 
recent rain, we mounted our mules at the door of the little inn 
of Martigny, prepared to pass through the Téte Noir into 
Chamouni, with our good-humoured muleteer, Giuseppe, as 
guide. We wound slowly along beside the Drance, and passed 
one of those singular specimens of mechanical simplicity, a 
Swiss saw mill. “The fall is so rapid in Alpine torrents, that 
all the preparation necessary for a saw mill is to choose a spot 
where the torrent curves, or has some natural obstruction to 
its direct course: here a wooden shoot is inserted, and con- 
veyed a few yards at a rapid inclination to the water-wheel, 
generally about 5 ft. diameter, with short paddles; against 
which the water, rushing with immense velocity through the 
shoot, strikes, and turns it with such speed that the crank to 
which the saws are attached, and on the same axis, makes 
about sixty revolutions per minute. ‘The timber is driven on 
by hand. The whole machine is often in the open air, some- 
times under a shingle roof. 

__A little beyond the saw mill the road rises over an immense 
slope of sandy debris, beneath which an iron foundery lies 
entombed, from the inundation of 1818. We now turned 
aside, and commenced a sharp ascent along the edge of a 
wooded dell, in the bottom of which murmured a mountain 
brook, on its way to join the Drance: it socn was far below 
us; and under the shade of noble chestnuts we continued to 
ascend, through delicious pasture, with cattle quietly feeding 
among the trees, and here and there a chalet [mountain hut] 
under ‘“ the shadow of a great rock,” for about two miles. 
At one place the ground scarped off precipitately on the left, 
exposing an extended tract of loose stones and brambles, 
thickly covered with the Cuscuta europee'a, its beautiful scarlet 
tendrils glittering in the sun, and the huge grasshoppers 
revelling in its mimic labyrinths; while innumerable butter- 
flies, some azure, some yellow, fluttered above it. A waft of 
cool refreshing air sometimes indicated the elevation we had 
attained; and presently we emerged from the chestnut forestry 
into open mountain pasture, bare and short, but embroidered 
with a thousand flowers; and, higher still, thick dark pine 
forests, and far behind us two or three snowy peaks, rose high 
and alone. We had now attained nearly the highest point of 
our path, and soon began to descend towards the ravine of 


of a recent Continental Tour. 271 


the ‘Tete Noir. At first this tremendous gorge is wide and 
open, but enclosed with lofty mural precipices; and along its 
bottom a torrent brawls, swelling its waters at every leap in 
its progress. A few solitary chalets are scattered under massive 
rocks, that defend them from the avalanches in winter. 
Proceeding along the side of the torrent, for a consider- 
able distance, by a nearly level path, after a steep and long 
descent, and having crossed a rude wooden bridge, the Téte 
Noir itself, the stupendous precipice from which the pass takes 
its mame, at once opposes itself to view: a mighty mass of 
solid unbroken rock, it stands, projecting into the valley, in 
sheer descent above six hundred feet. I sat down .on the 
planks of the wooden bridge, to sketch its noble outline, and 
was soon surrounded by numbers of huge ants, which came 
out of, and retreated into, innumerable small holes in the pine 
timber of the bridge. These ants infest dead pine timber in 
the south of Europe, and are nearly as great a destruction to 
it as the lion ant of tropical climates is to every other kind of 
wood. It is, I believe, the Formica herculanea: its colour is 
a very dark chestnut, sometimes nearly black. The male is 
nearly seven eighths of an inch in length, the female larger, 
and does not sting when about the person, as our ants do: 
it appears to feed solely on the dead timber of pine trees, and 
seems less inclined to attack timber under cover than when 
exposed to the sun and air. Like our own ants, it has an 
acid taste, owing to its containing formic acid. The nests of 
this species of ant are composed of dry leaves, chiefly those 
of the pines, heaped together to about 15 inches in height, 
and in the centre is contained the nursery of young ones. 
The vailey narrows rapidly after passing the Téte Noir; 
and its whole breadth is covered with a gloomy pine forest, 
through which the path, scarcely scalable by mules, winds, 
‘sometimes ascending, sometimes with a steep descent, now 
high above the roaring torrent, by this time swelled and 
lashed into wave and spray; now close to its rolling waters. 
At one point the scene was peculiarly impressive. ‘The path 
led over an enormous mass of granite covered all over with 
lichens: on one side, the pines, set thick and dark, ap- 
peared to grow out from between the huge rounded granite 
that sloped rapidly upwards, until their termination was lost 
in the forestry; every inch of space between the trees was 
covered, to the depth of some inches, with the most luxuriant 
coating the eye could repose upon of the lichens ventosus 
and atroflavus, &c., filling up the yawning crevices between 
the granite boulders, and making the whole a nodular, 
verdant, velvety surface. At the other side, the rock over- 


272 Horticultural Jottanda 


hung the torrent, here rolling over three successive cataracts, 
at the depth of at least two hundred feet below us; and, 
on the opposite side, the broken precipice rose until its top 
was hid by white vapoury clouds that flitted past its face, 
which nearly opposite us showed the track of an avalanche, 
— pine trunks crushed, uprooted, broken, and hurried down 
in every possible direction; every vestige of vegetation torn 
away, and the bowels of the mountain bared: below, the 
chaos, the “ strages ” (for I know no English word that ex- 
presses. it), half blocked up the narrow pass against and 
through which the torrent fearfully urged its impetuous 
course. 

To descend suddenly from great to small: the extreme 
loveliness of the mossy carpet, and the air of gardenesque it 
had, brought to my mind how little care our framers of 
rockwork take to cherish those beautiful revellers in shade 
and moisture, the lichens: no plants are so suitable for rock- 
work, none look so well; because none adapt themselves to 
and preserve the contour of the stones so well, and none, 
when once established, need so little care. I have found that 
each plant of the common Lichen ventosus, when established, 
will increase at least four inches in diameter every winter, 
and that the best mode of getting them established is to 
select plants from flat pieces of rock, with some of their 
natural mould adhering; to plaster the stone on which the 
lichen is to be planted, and likewise the bottom of the plant, 
with a puddle of peat and clay; and to press the plant firmly 
to the stone. The operation should be performed early in 
the autumn, that they may be established before the drought 
of the succeeding summer. As I have begun [ will make a 
little episode upon rockworks; a branch of garden craft well 
worth attention, and very often botched. 

Rockworks ought to imitate some natural arrangement of 
rocks, with just so much of symmetry and artificial work about 
them as will give a garden effect. Now, they may be either 
on broken and hilly ground; in which case much artificial 
arrangement will generally be injurious, if not impossible ; 
or on a level surface, and devoid of rocks naturally.- Rocks 
are, I think, only found in two forms in level ground, 
namely, as strata cropping out, and as boulder stones, and to 
one of these two arrangements every artificial rockwork 
should tend. Where the rockwork is to be constructed of 
stratified stones, as calp, clay slate, limestone, &c., the former 
arrangement will be the best; and it offers some advantages 
over the other; for the artificial strata may be made to dip to 
the south, and broken into fissures, for plants or shrubs, ac- 


of a recent Continental Tour. 273 


eording to the magnitude of the whole, while the broken and 
irregular terminations of the strata afford fine nooks and 
shelves for plants, and moist shady caves for Jungermannza, 
Marchantiag, &c. The terminal line of the strata may be a 
curve, so as to present various aspects, and the whole crop, 
to use the geological term, might be hollow, for fungi, &c. 
Where, however, large boulder stones can be procured, a 
more intricate and interesting group may be produced, not 
so good for choice plants, but more picturesque: here large 
shrubs, or even trees, American plants, and aquatics, may be 
well introduced. 

Some gardeners seem to imagine that the style of rock- 
work should accord with that of the garden in which it is 
placed ; that is, that a Chinese garden should have Chinese 
rocks in it, or a rockwork composed of every possible mon- 
strosity arranged as uncouthly as possible; and so of other 
styles. Nothing can be more mistaken than this: it is the 
scene should suit the rockwork, which should be artificial 
chiefly in the suppression of the appearance of art. But be 
it ever remembered that the common style of making rock- 
works, piling stones into cones, pyramids, arches, &c., mixing 
with them fragments of broken statuary or architecture, sea 
shells, corals, mirrors, singing-bird cages, water organs, &c., 
is barbarous and absurd. _ Bees are a delightful addition to 
rockwork, placed in a hive made of the hollow stump of a 
tree planted among the stones: their busy merry hum and 
incessant toil give life to the rest of the scene. 


“ Fervet opus, redolentque thymo fragrantia mella.” * 


I cannot approve of chained eagles, sea gulls, land tortoises, 
porcupines, &c., pets not uncommonly found in rockworks. 
The plants immediately amongst the stones should none of 
them be very tall or straight growers. Prostrate plants of 
small growth, are the proper staple. No such plants as 
Tussilago, &c., should be introduced but where there is a great 
deal of room, as it is next to impossible to éradicate runners 
from rockwork, although they may be choking other plants. 
The common Lysimachia Nummularia is a beautiful rock- 
work plant much neglected. 

If a little bubbling runnel can be made to meander 
through a rockwork, it is of infinite use and beauty. In 
a large rockwork I would place here and there patches of 


* “ With diligence the fragrant work proceeds.” 
Dryden's trans. 
The device for a rustic beehive, figured and described Vol. VIII. p. 665., 
might perhaps not be unsuitable. — JD: 
Vou. IX. — No. 44. T 


274, Horticultural Jottanda 


close short ereensward between the rocks, in well- chosen, 
sites, to enable one to enjoy the minuter beauties of creation, 
stretched sub dio. In such a situation, and at the close of 
some autumnal evening, let any one whose mind is capable 
of feeling the beauty and the glories of creation lie 
reclined, **commune with his heart, and be still.” Close to 
his eye he will see numbers of little insects bright and beau- 
tiful; most of them, though he be skilled in insect lore, 
unknown to him; some climbing up the spiry grass, some 
disporting on the fragrant flowers, perhaps engaged in like 
labour with the bee, | most industrious of God's creatures, - 
flitting from plant to plant, and filling up each interval of 
labour with its song. Beneath the sward on which he 
reclines, another class of brilliant-scaled insects stir the dusty 
particles of earth, others skim upon the clear surface of the 
brook that babbles at his feet; and, looking into its lucid 
depths, he beholds another and more wonderful race re- 
velling in enjoyment, from the scaled fish, poised on its 
tenuous fins, to the minutest discernible particle that motion 
alone detects to be an animal. He may suppose the wonders 
of vegetable life around him, also, in their everlasting variety 
and beauty, from “the cedar that groweth in Lebanon to the 
hyssop that springeth out of the wall.” Farther on, the 
feathered inhabitants of the brake and wood discourse their 
vesper song. ‘* Silence is pleased;” Nature herself hath 
donned her evening veil, perfumed by every odorous tree 
and flower; an auburn halo gilds the landscape seen far 
away, laden with golden crops, studded with villages,. 
traversed by flocks and herbs: the sun is set; .and all is 
hushed save the lone nightingale, that ‘ all night long her 
amorous descant sings;” the stars begin to kindle their 
appointed fires, and the moon pours her broad flood of silver 
light upon the silent air. It is night: the watcher rises, 
with a mind exalted, chastened, and composed. But to 
return from the scenery of our own fatherland to that of the 
savage spot whence this digression commenced. After a 
succession of ascents and ‘descents, over the rugged path, 
fearful and dangerous in many places (but for the surprising 
sagacity of the sure-footed mules, which, accustomed to such 
paths, secure their footing, unguided by the rein, with an 
unerring certainty, even when passing over polished granite 
inemidiene, and in places where a fall would be destruction), 
the valley widened, the trees became more scarce, and we 
soon arrived at a little chalet, there we dined upon cheese, 
strawberries and cream, &c. 

We had not ridden on above halt a mile after dinner, 


of a vecent Continental Tour. 275 


when our guide Giuseppe, who had loitered a little, overtook 
us, running and out of breath, to say that the douaniers of 
the king of Sardinia had seized his mule, and a pair of 
pistols of ours (which he carried for the purpose of awaken- 
ing the echoes), in consequence of our carrying arms 
through his majesty’s territories without paying duty. We 
had to ride back, and in about a quarter of an hour overtook 
Giuseppe’s mule, laden with our carpet bags, &c., led by the 
douanier, but not towards their caserne; and we had some 
difficulty in persuading the fellow to conduct us direct to his 
commanding officer. We retraced our steps, and soon 
arrived at a miserable hut, and were introduced to Monsieur 
Je Capitain, a filthy, unshaven, unsoldierly-looking villain, 
that had fully as much the appearance of a robber as of a 
revenue officer: indeed, I believe, in remote districts, these 
gentry occasionally practise in both capacities. Our amiable 
captor spoke something to him in patois, and he demanded 
thirty francs for our carrying arms, &c.: we insisted on see- 
ing the tariff; and, in short, after for a long time refusing to 
show it, after the most disgraceful attempts at imposition 
and vexatious delays, we reduced their demand from thirty 
JSrancs to two, and it appeared very questionable whether they 
had any right to even the latter sum. I am particular in 
relating this trifling incident, as a general caution against the 
douaniers of the south of Europe (the Austrian states in 
particular), whom I have invariably found. on the watch for 
any species of mean exaction and peculation. They will 
open letters, not a syllable of which they can. decipher. 
They seized a volume of Lord Byron’s poetry from a 
Hanoverian student, that we travelled with in Lombardy, as 
an unconstitutional book. ‘These are things that make us feel 
the value of our own free institutions. 

We shook ourselves clear of these extortioners, and soon 
passed some very large pines. What a noble tree is a 
mighty pine! when growing in the situation it is intended 
for, on the mountain side; based on the solid rock, which its 
huge roots enfold, and, stretching deep, bind to the parent - 
earth: its enormous trunk, unbent by storm or time, reaches 
towards heaven, “ lythe by degrees and beautifully less ;” 
its dependent limbs, laden with persistent verdure, shake icy 
winter proudly from their crest. Truly the pine is the 
mountain forest king, as the oak is that of the plain. Ma- 
jestic as is a large and matured pine, no tree looks more 
ungraceful when young, and to my eye none seems so out of 


place when planted in masses in the plain. The habit of 
22 


276 - Horticultural Jottanda. 


planting pines, to the almost exclusion of hard-wooded trees, 
has long been matter of complaint in our own country in an 
economical point of view; but surely as a matter of taste it is 
equally bad: the form and structure of the pine at once 
indicate it a mountain plant, and it never harmonises in 
appearance with the massive forms of the broad-leaved trees 
of the plain. It is said to be necessarily planted for nursing 
other trees ; but species, I should think, might be found, having 
all the requisites of nurse plants, as well as little starveling 
pines ; some may be found of far greater rapidity of growth, 
as the American poplars, where effect is required to be 
speedily produced. 

The day was far spent, and the scattered pines cast their 
long shadows athwart the valley, and the deep silence of 
evening was broken only by the hoarse murmurs of the 
torrent rolling along its centre. We had reascended a con- 
siderable space, when, at a sudden turning of the path, with 
a rapid descent, Chamouni, Mont Blanc, and the lofty 
Aiguille, revealed themselves at once. 

A glorious sunset streamed along the valley, and showed 
the Anveron, in molten gold, winding through its wooded 
bottom. On the left Mont Blanc reared “its bald awful 
summit,” tipped with the rosy tint of dying day. Every 
recess and mountain valley was cast in deep and dusky shade, 
while the huge glaciers and every salient mass were bathed 
in auburn light.. As we descended slowly, wrapt in ecstasy at 
the glorious spectacle, the sun sank behind the western 
termination of the valley, and all within it was veiled in 
darkness. — Still its light illuminated the summits of Mont 
Blanc, and the Aiguille, that rose close on our left, like some 
gigantic obelisk, so steep that the very snow cannot rest 
upon it: rose-colour and green, as if emerald were melting 
into amethyst, beamed and then faded from them both, and 
all was dark; but still the wide domains of snow upon Mont 
Blanc relieved themselves against the purple sky, and one 
solitary star shone clear and steady just above its ample 
dome, and lights now here and there began to twinkle 
through the vale. We mended our pace, and soon arrived 
at the comfortable inn; the sparkling pine-log fire ; supper 
of chamois, with other appliances: and the joyous antici- 
pation of the morrow, by degrees gave way to fatigue, and 
we journeyed to the Land of Nod. 

R. M. 
Dublin, April, 1833. 


(To be continued.) 


Heating by the Circulation of Fluids. 277 


Ape. II. On heating by the Circulation of Fluids. 
By Rosert MAL et, Esq. 


Sir, 

Ir appears strange that any man should have thrown away 
his money upon a patent for circulating hot oil; after the 
thing had been so distinctly pointed out by Mr. 'Tredgold, and 
published long since in the Trans. Hort. Soc., and in the Gard. 
Mag. Vol. VIL. p. 177. Still more unfortunate is it, that, were 
the patent valid as a patent, the difficulties and danger of bring- 
ing it into practice are such as would render it useless. Oil 
possesses, in common with some other fluids, when hot, such a 
power of exuding through fissures, or the minutest capillary 
apertures, that it is found almost impossible, if not wholly so, 
to keep the joints, &c., of apparatus ‘containing it stanch for 
any length of time. In addition to this inconvenience, the 
danger of its inflammation is imminent; for, the moment the 
heat becomes sufficient to carbonise the oil (and there is no ~ 
mode of regulating or preventing this), gas begins to be 
generated, and conflagration is likely to ensue. Of this there 
was a lamentable instance at a sugar-baker’s in London. 

The advantage proposed in heating by hot oil instead of 
water, is, that, oil boiling at a temperature about three times 
as high as water, three times as much heat will be developed, 
in the same time, from an equal surface of an oil apparatus,’ 
as from that of hot water; therefore, that, to heat a given 
space by the former mode, only one third the heating sur- 
face will be required as by the latter; and that, consequently, 
the cost of the apparatus will be reduced in about the same 
ratio: that the apparatus, being smaller, takes up less room, 
&c.; and that the combustion of the fuel is more perfect, 
and therefore more economical, at this elevation of tem- 
perature than at a lower one. Such, I think, is a fair state- 
ment of the advantages proposed by heating with fluids at a 
temperature above 212° Fahrenheit; for effecting which two 
other modes have also been proposed, namely, by water 
heated under pressure in close vessels, and by using saline 
solutions as the medium of heat. 

To the first of these, which is the subject of Mr. Perkins’s 
patent, there are many objections. First, the extreme danger 
which ever will attend the exposure of metallic vessels to 
great elastic pressure, however contrived or skilfully arranged 
and managed. ‘The rapid destruction of those tubes which 
are placed in contact with the fire; which, namely, the con- 
tinued failure of the generators, was one of the causes of the 


ill success of Mr. Perkins’s engine. ‘This destruction of: 
T 3 


278 Heating by the Circulation of Fluids. 


tubes any one acquainted with locomotive engines is well 
aware of. To this is to be added the deposition of sediment 
in the whole line of the tubes, and the difficulties of origin- 
ally stanching an extensive range of such apparatus, and 
afterwards maintaining it so, against the effects of expansion 
and contraction. 

The second mode proposed is by using a solution of 
lime, or some other saline solution, instead of water. By 
this no great increase of temperature is obtained, and the 
corrosion of the apparatus is likely to be very great. It 
would seem, however, that there are very few cases in which 
it can be of any real advantage, to heat by a medium cir- 
culating at a temperature greater than that of boiling water, 
notwithstanding the speciousness of the arguments by which 
the contrary may be urged. But, where any such advantage 
is apparent, I now propose an arrangement at least free from 
the objections of the preceding ones, whatever it may have 
peculiar to itself. 

I propose to use, as my medium of circulation, any me- 
tallic alloy which will melt at a temperature not greatly 
exceeding 212° Fahrenheit, for this purpose: that composed 
of bismuth, tin, and lead will probably be found the most 
convenient. 

Fig. 80. is a section of one of the simplest possible forms of 
this apparatus. The large tube, shown by strong lines, con- 


80 


tains within its whole length another range of small gas 
tubes, the extremities of which are at a and b. ‘The tubes 
are arranged in any of the usual forms to produce circulation, 
and have at one extreme a hollow cylindrical wrought-iron 
boiler (c) which, together with the interspace between the 
outside or larger tubes and the imner or gas tubes, are 
filled with the fusible metallic alloy, poured in hot, through 
tubes at d d, which have a loose plug or piston fitted to each, 
and capable of being withdrawn. 

The extremities of the gas tube (a, 6) communicate with a 
very small steam-boiler. Now, supposing the apparatus all 
full, but the metal cold and solid in it, and requiring to be 
heated. By a shovelful of coals steam is got up in the 


Freating by the Circulation of Fluids. 279 


little steam-boiler; by which means, as it passes through the 
gas tubes, the metallic alloy is fused; during which operation 
a fire is kindled under the boiler of the apparatus itself, 
which fuses the metal therein, and as soon as the whole is in 
fusion, circulation commences throughout the system, the 
same as in any other fluid; and its temperature may be 
raised, if necessary, to any thing below that at which the 
metal becomes volatile, or to a white heat, supposing the 
apparatus capable of sustaining it. 

In this arrangement, then, there is neither pressure, 
sediment, nor corrosion, but there are three great, but per- 
fectly superable, difficulties to be overcome. First, the very 
great expansion and contraction of the metallic alloy. To 
correct this, glands, or hollow stuffing-boxes, must unite the 
outside pipes at various appropriate places; these may either 
be altogether metallic, or, what I should prefer, packed with 
amianthus. ‘The gas tubes must likewise be inserted into the 
outside tubing, through similar stuffing-boxes. 

If there be a sufficient number of these glands, no danger 
from irregular expansion need be apprehended in apparatus 
of this kind, however large or complicated. ‘The second 
difficulty is, that these fusible alloys, in common with all 
crystalline metals, expand at the moment of congelation; and 
that with such force as to rupture any part of the apparatus 
incapable of yielding to it. ‘To remedy this, all the tubes 
must be of wrought iron, and not very thick. ‘They should 

8] be welded tubes (for the outside), and 
rolled or drawn into the section shown 
in jig. 81., or some modification of it. 

Thus the exterior tube’ will accommo- 
date itself to the metal it contains at the 
moment of solidification, and at its fusion 
again will return to its former shape, by 
the elasticity of the iron. The third 
difficulty consists in the great’ statical 
pressure of the fluid metal, owing to its 
great specific gravity, on the parts of the apparatus; so that 
the lower part of it would have to sustain a pressure of fifteen 
pounds the square inch for about every three feet in height. 
This would require all the parts so exposed to be strongly 
put together, and the joints well made. 

In point of danger of leakage, the metallic medium pos- 
sesses an advantage over either oil or water; the law of the 
capillary attraction of fluid metals being such as disposes 
them not to pass with facility through minute apertures. 

With regard to the great statical pressure, it is to be 

pen 


280 Heating by the Circulation of Fluids. 


remembered that it zs statical, and not elastic as in Mr. 
Perkins’s apparatus, and therefore that the worst that can 
follow from a leak is the metal running out. The boiler for 
this apparatus may be very small; in fact, little more than a 
large tube. The joints of the gas tubes might be screwed in 
the common way, those of the exterior tubes might be 
flanged, and put together with a cement of red lead ground 
in drying oil, plaster of Paris, and fine iron borings, which 
sets ae hard when exposed to heat, and withal retains a 
certain degree of elasticity. But these tubes might be brazed 
together in such lengths as would supersede all joints but 
those at the glands. 

If this arrangement be not very valuable, from the few 
occasions for its use, it is, I believe, at least new. The only 
metal before proposed being mercury, the employment of 
which is precluded by its expense and volatility. . 

I am next about to propose an arrangement for the more 
economical heating of very extensive ranges of hot-houses, 
&c., by the circulation of hot water, by burning lime in the 
same apparatus, and applying the heat usually wasted in 
slacking it to the warming of the water. 

Mr. Dalton has shown that the heat of lime in the act 
of being slacked is equal to 400° Fahrenheit; and I have 
found that, under proper management, a given quantity of 
lime, in slacking, will raise nearly five times its weight of 
water from: 60° Fahrenheit to the boiling point. For this 
purpose I propose applying either of the arrangements, 
Jig. 82. or 83., whichever may be found more advantageous; and, 
possibly, no enlarged experiments being tried, much better 
arrangements than either may be devised. In fg. 82., aa are 
double raised inverted conical vessels, which act alternately 
as boilers; their inside, or hollow, is filled with the lime- 
stone to be burnt, and the fuel. The draught of this kiln 
(for so the boiler becomes) is downwards through the grates" 
6 b, and up round the flues cc cc, &c.; thus also heating the 
water in the boilers contained in the annular conical spaces 
dd, and carrying it to circulate through properly arranged 
tubes in the ordinary way. When a charge of limestone is 
burnt down, it is to be slacked in the kiln, by opening the 
cocks ee, which permit a flow of water down through the 
vertical axes, or tubes, ff, which are perforated with nume- 
rous holes, below the level of the line, and are armed with 
vanes, or knives, round their circumference ; and, being caused 
slowly to rotate, by the vanes of a smoke-jack, g, placed in 
the flue, or by any other suitable means, mix up the water 
and the lime, and break the lumps of the latter, thus. 


Heating by the Circulation of Fluids. 281 


is el 

afsel \aol 
YI I 

preventing it from clogging, and in swelling (for lime in slack- 
Ing increases greatly in bulk) bulging out the boilers. When 
the lime is all slacked, the stoppers 2 4 are to be pulled out, 
and, by touching a trigger, the grates 6 fall down, and per- 
mit the lime to be raked out at the bottom. One of the two 
kilns must be always burning, and the lime slacking in the 
other, that the draught of the former may turn the axis for 
the latter. fie 

Fig. 83. is another arrangement for the same purpose. 
Here only one of the two boiler-kilns is shown. The 
boiler is here a hollow cylinder; the lime is thrown in at the. 
end a, and raked out at b: ccc are the tubes for the 
affusion of water ; dd, the pipes for the circulation of the 
hot water. ‘The flame from the fireplace, ¢, passes up 
through the lime, down on the outside of the boiler, by the 
flue f; and, finally, up the funnel g: or the boiler may be 
used as a common one, independent of the lime, by shutting 
the damper /, and opening two, placed one at each side, as 
at 7, by which the flame passes only on the outside of the 
boiler. This latter arrangement may be adopted also during 
the time the lime may be slacking in the internal part of the 
boiler. The lime is sustained from falling down into the 
flues, by a grate at £; J is an air tube to burn the smoke of 
the fuel in the fireplace. 


282 Fleating by the Circulation of Fluids. 


The arguments that may be adduced in favour of this 
scheme are, that, wherever there is a large range of hot- 
houses, lime is continually wanting for manure, and that thus 
the lime burnt would be no drug, and the heat disengaged in 
slacking it might be economically thus employed: that, in 
the burning of lime, part of the carbonic acid which is dis- 
engaged is converted into carbonic oxide, and thus becomes 
inflammable, and burns; so that the lime itself, in this case, 
becomes a valuable fuel: that, this being the case, the lime 
would be burnt with little or no expense; and, instead of the 
heating of a large range of houses costing a large annual 
sum, would produce a saving, by yielding a valuable result. 
The sole argument against it is complication of apparatus: 
however, experience would soon simplify that greatly. 

There are many useful applications of the circulation of 
hot water yet to be thought of, and many thought of that 
have not yet been applied. Why might not the feet of 
outside passengers on night coaches be kept warm by the 
waste heat of the lanterns? to take one instance out of 
many. 

Should you approve of it [we do most cordially], I will, at a 
future time, send you some further thoughts on hot water, &c. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
94, Capel Street, Dublin, Rosert Matter. 
April 18. 1833. 


Mr. Main’s Rejomder. 283 


Art. IV. Rejoinder to the Answer of the Author of the ‘* Domestic 
Gardener's Manual,” on Questions proposed to that Gentleman in 
Vol. VIII. p.652. By Mr. J. Marn. 


Sir, 

I FEEL very much obliged by your condescension in answer- 
ing [p. 186.] so fully and so candidly the queries I took the 
liberty of proposing to you in a former Number of this Maga- 
zine. Having given your answer an attentive perusal, I must 
beg leave to say, that, from the whole of your arguments, it is 
to me sufficiently obvious that you have not perceived exactly 
the drift of my questions; your reply relates only to the 
augmentation of the elements of plants, while my questions 
referred to the Sormation of the organisation. ‘This being the 
case, it is necessary to restate my questions somewhat more 
fully, and to add some brief comment, which, while it will 
place the former in a proper light, will also show to what 
they tended. 

My first question is simply this, Can the organic structure 
of plants be formed by or out of their juices? I call all juices 
of a plant the sap, whether in its crudest state, as pure 

water, or after its assimilation into the consistence of resin, 
gum, oil, milk, pulp, or jelly. In one or other of these con- 
ditions it is found inal plants, and either concreted or fluid, 
occupying the cellular, vascular, or tubular organs, or exuded 
therefrom, and appearing on the buds, in the flowers and 
fruit, or on other parts of the exterior. The sap is therefore 
an important constituent of the system, and quite distinct, in 
my opinion, from the organic frame which elaborates and 
contains it. I ask, then, is the latter formed by any possible 
ageregation of the former ? in other words, are the pellicles 
of the cells, the sides of the vessels, or tubes of the structure, 
or the fibrous tissues of the various membranes, generated by 
associations of the rarer or grosser particles, or globules, of 
the sap? In your various respectable writings, and in your 
answer before me, you seem convinced affirmatively. ” This 
is your position; which (though supported by many great 
names) I deem untenable, and which, indeed, called forth 
the queries I presumed to propose to you. 

As proof of your opinion as to the organisable properties of 
the sap, you refer me to one of our first physiological 
authorities, and to an ingenious experiment made by that 
acute observer of nature. But as neither the high respect- 
ability of the experimentalist nor the result of the experiment 
itself can bear upon or alter the simple question proposed by 
me, I must decline giving any opinion thereon, more espe- 


284 Mr. Main’s Rejoinder to the Author 


cially as the results of such experiments. are not - always 
uniform, differing according to the time and manner of per- 
formance; indeed, I might add, at the will of the performer. 

I have already alluded to the sap and membranous frame or 
structure of vegetables; but there is another equally im- 
portant matter to be adverted to; I mean, the elements of 
vegetables. ‘These, you say, are chiefly the constituents of 
water, viz. oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon; the chemical 
essences or bodies of which the vegetable frame is com- 
pounded; the pabulum by which it is enlarged, and without 
constant supplies of which a plant remains stunted, or would 
in’ the end inevitably perish. All this 1 firmly believe, and 
it is an admission which may appear at first sight to be cor- 
roborative of all you have advanced, and contend for, relative 
to the growth of plants ; but I presume to think that a little 
further consideration and explanation will show, not only that 
such distinction is just, and therefore necessary, in physio- 
logical investigations, but that they, viz. vegetable elements 
and vegetable organisation, should never be confounded 
together, so as to attribute to the former the power of 
generating the latter. Your ideas appear to be, that vege- 
table food, in conjunction with the vital energies and 
<¢ chemico-electrical influences ” of the earth and atmosphere, 
goes directly to form new organs. My opinion is, that nu- 
trition received into the system goes only to increase the 
quantity of the elements already existing in the membranous 
fabric, serving to dilate and expand the same; not by 
addition of new cells, tubes, or fibres, but simply by enlarge- 
ment of those already there. You assume that, by certain 
and peculiar combinations of vegetable elements acted on by 
‘“‘the great natural agents,” new organic bodies may be 
generated. I humbly imagine this to be impossible; because 
such a phenomenon has never been seen, nor do we ever 
witness any vegetable body produced, unless it originates 
from a seed, propago, tuber, or other dissevered member of a 
plant. ‘The organisation and specific structure are certainly 
rudimental; these are amplified, as already observed, by the 
elemental fluids absorbed by the. receptive spongioles and 
pores of the cuticle, but not one additional cell can possibly 
be formed by any such augmentation of either gaseous or 
aqueous fluids. Can we suppose, with Buffon, that nature 
abounds in “diving organic particles ;” and that these, by 
concurring circumstances, associate by accident, and form 
vesicles, laminee, tissues, fibres, and all other organic struc- 
ture, in the same way as crystals are formed? Such doc- 
trine, I presume, cannot be sound philosophy. If there were 


of the Domestic Gardener’s Manual. 285 


not determinate rudimental structure, the combinations of the 
introsuscepted aliment would be fortuztously arranged, and 
all specific structure would be irregular and confusedly 
‘disposed. 

These, my humble opinions of een elements, accre- 
tion, and developement, will readily account for my second 
question, relative to the instances of organic bodies being 
formed out of znorganic matter, and on which I requested 
information. On this question you have been pleased to give 
as an instance the new growth of a potted vine, forced under 
your own eye. You solicit my attention to the new organis- 
ation exhibited in the elongated shoots, and ask ohamee it 
came. I feel perfectly confident in stating that the whole 
was contained in the buds before expansion, and the increase 
of the elements was derived from the manured earth and 
water with which the vine was supplied. The chemical 
elements of carbon, &c., contained in the expansible organ- 
isation of the buds were excited into action by heat “and 
light ; “and, in every moment of the growth, fresh supplies of 
those elements were received to dilate the pellicle of every 
cell, elongate every tube, and engross every fibre composing 
the several membranes of the plant. I could prove by a 
thousand instances, were it necessary, that vegetable as well 
as animal organisation has rudimental preexistence.. It is 
a fact admitting not a shadow of doubt; for, if it could.be 
proved that the lowest and most insignifieant of vegetables 
was self-produced, or if even the most znconsiderable portion 
of a vegetable organ could be formed from the mere union 
of vegetable elements, then, in the same way, we should not 
only have adventitious buds, flowers, and fruit, but adven- 
titious herbs, and shrubs, and trees. 

Chemistry can form crystals, marble, and even the hardest 
of all mineral bodies, out of what was. once in a state of 
fluidity ; but can any possible combination of chemical bodies 
and powers originate the smallest Fangus, or the minutest 
species of Infusoria? Some natural philosophers labour in vain 
to account for the primitive formations of plants and animals by 
their principles of science; and so, I dare think, will vege- 
table physiologists be puzzled, if they deny preexisting organ- 
isation. If, therefore, a plant cannot originate itself, nor 
acquire existence without a rudiment; so neither, it follows as 
a corollary, can the smallest member or appendage of a 
vegetable be developed, unless it arise from a preexisting 
congenerous membrane. (See Dom. Gard. Man., p- 274.) 

From these circumstances we arrive at, I think, a just and 
rational conclusion, viz., that vegetable sap 7s- not organisable,; 


286 Mr. Main’s Rejoinder. 


because, in whatever state it is found, either in or out of a 
plant, it is always homogeneous; for instance, resin, gum, 
&c. That state of the alburnum called cambium, or pulp, zs not 
sap, though fully charged with it. This I have endea- 
voured to prove elsewhere *; but it would take up too much 
space to discuss it in these pages. I shall only add that I 
consider it impossible that either bark, wood, buds, leaves, 
flowers, or fruit can receive form, texture, or ligneous con- 
sistence adventitiously, even from the most elaborated and 
concentrated accumulations of that vegetable product the 
sap; and this doctrine I must continue to hold, until you or 
some other philosopher can clearly show that plants have, 
and may, come znto existence equivocally. It is not necessary 
I should notice the other circumstances alluded to in your 
answer, relative to the secretions of animals, and _trans- 
mutability of znorganic fluids and solids, because they do not 
bear on my questions, and, moreover, on these points we 
mostly agree. 

But, however you may receive or reject what I have 
advanced as explanatory of the real bearing of the questions 
proposed to you, be assured, Sir, that I feel much obliged by 
the civility which dictated, and the valuable illustrations of 
the elements of plants contained in, your answer. I regret 
much my ignorance of chemical science, and consequent inca- 
pacity for treating my view of the subject as it might be treated. 
All I know of that excellent science I have gleaned chiefly 
from yourself; and it is my sincere opinion that you have 
rendered essential service to practical gardening, by having 
united the two studies more intimately in the Domestzc Gar- 
dener’s Manual, than had been done by any previous author ; 
and I flatter myself with the hope that, in all your future 
experiments and observations on vegetable phenomena, you 
will have an eye to the distinction, which I have so feebly 
tried to point out, between the enlargement of the vegetable 
frame, and the augmentation of the elements. It is in your 
power to do justice to the subject (should you approve the 
doctrine); and such a disquisition from your pen, appended 
to future editions of the Domestic Gardener’s Manual, would 
be very serviceable to practical men. 

With best wishes that you “may be long able and inclined 
to prosecute your studies, in the different branches of science 
you have chosen to illustrate, 

I remain, Sir, yours, &c. 


J. Marin. 


* Vegetable Physiology practically applied to the Cultivation of the 
- Garden, the Field, and the Forest ; now in the press, in one small yolume 
Syo. Orr, Paternoster Row. 


May 4. 1833. 


Effects of Terrestrial Radiation. 287 


To the Conductor of the Gardener’s Magazine. 
Sir, 

I parE not directly presume to address my gratuitous 
respondent, Joseph Hayward, Esq., author of the Science 
of Horticulture, &c. &c., and therefore trust to your kind- 
ness to give insertion to a very few words by way of rejoinder 
to the observations of that gentleman. (p. 192.) 

In the first place, I ought to consider it an honour that any 
question proposed by me should attract the notice of one 
who has distinguished himself so much by his writings on 
the science of both farming and gardening. Secondly, my 
thanks are due for his merczful consideration, in refraining to 
give an answer which I could “ not understand ;” and, more- 
over, for the very homely instance which he has been pleased 
to give of the organisable properties of my ‘ mother’s milk,” 
which, he assumes, gave me, during babyhood, bones, legs, 
arms, and all other appurtenances to boot. These, however, 
I humbly imagine, I possessed long before I yet had blest 
my poor dear mother’s sight. No doubt, that maternal fluid, 
gave me what Sir John Falstaff called thewes; but I much 
question (foolishly perhaps) whether, if I had sucked till 
now, I ever should have had another head or an extra- 
limb. 

Mr. Hayward can hardly be serious in referring me to the 
earthy deposit on the inside of a tea-kettle; for surely the 
most consummate science would fail to prove that to be 
organised matter. But this reference, I am fuily persuaded, 
was only @ slip of the pen; and therefore, as in candour 
bound, I willingly exercise that tribute of compassion due to 
any man of science who inadvertently writes what, on -re- 
consideration, he must feel he never could intend. I shall not 
add a blemish to the Gardener’s Magazine by alluding to the 
style of Mr. Hayward’s letter: that speaks for itself. 

Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 
May 4. 1833. J. Marin. 


Art. V. On the Effects of Terrestrial Radiation on the Processes 
of Vegetation ; and some Account of the Chinese Method of propa- 
gating Fruit Trees. By J. Murray, Esq. 


Sir, 

OF all the sciences, it will be granted, on every hand, none 
is more connected with horticulture than that of chemistry. 
It is indeed its sun and centre; and, without the application 
of chemical laws and phenomena to horticulture, its principles 


288 Effects of Terrestrial Radiation 


remain unknown; the pursuit is a species of rude chance 
game: not to mention the world of life and interest which a 
correct knowledge of the chemistry of vegetation can impart 
to the cultivated intellect. The physiology of plants, or the 
laws and phenomena of vegetation, forms one of the most 
interesting and beautiful domains of chemical science. In 
saying. thus much, however, I would not be understood as 
underrating the importance of meteorological phenomena, 
which rule the atmosphere in its temperature, barometry, 
and hygrometry. These are essentially connected with the 
rise, progress, and decay of vegetation, or its full establish- 
ment in the attitude of healthy luxuriance. Above all (though 
a question too lightly esteemed) is the electrical condition of 
the atmosphere, and the electrical relations of individuals which 
constitute the living mass of vegetation. It is to be regretted 
that the practical gardener discards every instrument save 
the thermometer. Although I am far from denying it a place, 
and that an important one, in the scale of usefulness, I 
mean to assert that the hygrometer and aerial electroscope 
may safely dispute with the thermometer the point of priority. 
At the present time, however, it would be premature in me 
to-allude to a series of experiments now in progress, and 
which promise curious and interesting results. I may safely, 
however, venture to say that the laws and phenomena of 
radiation, too little attended to in even the science of horti- 
culture, are in many instances the very hinges on which the 
success of an abundant and mature crop of fruit depends. 

In the present communication, with your permission, I shall 
supply a few remarks connected with the cultivation of the 
vine in this country (in the open air), as elucidating scien- 
tific principles which I am engaged in carrying into effect, 
as I am anxious to bring the question before your readers 
as early as possible, to enable them, should they approve 
of my reasoning and plan of pursuit, to follow out into 
practice the principles now propounded for their consider- 
ation. -°'To this I shall add a few observations on the 
Chinese method of propagating fruit trees; and I may avail 
myself of a future opportunity to transmit a model of an 
improvement I have made in the machine employed to enclose 
the ball of earth and confine the newly formed roots. 

It has been shown that the cooling process of radiation,: by 
which the temperature of the surface of the earth is lowered 
so considerably, differs materially on the inclination of the 
hill compared with the bosom of the valley. Mr. Daniell, 
indeed, states, on one occasion, a difference amounting to 30°: 
that is to say, the thermometer on the inclined surface main- 


on the Processes of Vegetation. 289 


tained a higher temperature by 30° than another placed on 
the horizontal or level plane of the adjoining valley. This 
difference is certainly enormous; but it is proved beyond all 
doubt that a slope, an inclined bank for instance, radiates less 
by many degrees than the surface which is altogether hori- 
zontal. Indeed, I think we may collect abundant procfs of 
this important fact among the mountains and the valleys of 
Italy. On the plains of ‘Piedmont, the vines which are suf- 
fered to attain a considerable altitude on lofty poles, planted 
as their support, are detached from these poles towards the 
approach of winter, and prostrated on the earth, where they 
are secured from injury by the straw. ‘This treatment pro- 
tects them from the effects of the intense though short winter 
which reigns on the plains of Piedmont; for, ¢ even at ‘Turin, 
the water in my room has been congealed into a solid mass of 
ice throughout its entire extent. ‘The olive succeeds in Tus- 
cany; but the almond, pomegranate, and plants of the Citrus 
family flourish but imperfectly ; and yet, on the acclivities of 
the amphitheatre of the Apennines, which forms a semicircle 
round the magnificent city of Genoa, you find that the pome- 
granate, the lemon, and the orange mature their fruit and 
luxuriate. Even the imperial city is indebted for her palm 
branches to the palms which succeed in the open air at Nice. 
Now, the only difference in these circumstances consists in a 
reduction of the loss sustained by radiation, and the attem- 
pered influence of the sea breeze, which more than counter- 
balance the increase of warmth imparted by the sunbeams to 
a more southern clime: perhaps even the excellence of Monte 
Somma wines may have something to do with the acclivity on 
which the vineyards are planted. ‘To my vision, fruit trees 
planted on terraces, and rising one above the other, in amphi- 
theatrical form, appear beautiful; but this has become, I 
suppose, unfashionable, because it happens to be a gem from 
the antique. Now, restlessness in search of something new, 
however absurd, is incessant. ‘The ancients appear, in this 
respect, to have known what they were about; and I must 
frankly confess that, in my estimation, they acted wisely, and 
had the better of us, and that we are decidedly in the rear. 
To this cause | attribute the remarkable fertility of the Land 
of Judea in former times. Its susceptibility is sufficiently 
apparent, and there still remain existing vestiges of this mode 
of cultivating the flanks of the valleys, or the sides of the 
diversified hills of Palestine, to a considerable altitude. It is 
_ still, however, very questionable, whether low walls, con- 
structed of brick, or of stone and mortar, quite vertical, 
would succeed so well as the surface of a calcareous or sandy 
Vou. 1X.— No. 44. U 


290 Liffects of Terrestrial Radiation. 


soil, at an angle, for example, of 45°. A sandy soil absorbs 
heat, and continues heated, because sand is an indifferent 
radiator, and is, moreover, a non-conductor of caloric (heat) ; 
so that vines, &c., in contact with such a surface, would be 
more than compensated for the temperature they would lose 
through the medium of radiation; which would also be at- 
tenuated from the inclination of the plane. 

At St. Mary’s Isle, the seat of Earl Selkirk, near Kirk- 
cudbright, I remember to have seen a beautiful illustration 
of my views, in the case of pear trees pinioned to trellis- 
work on such an inclined surface as I have described ; and I 
have always understood that the crops of fruit which these 
trees carried were remarkable both for quantity and quality : 
indeed, it must be apparent, that, under such conditions, spring 
frosts can have little or no influence; because these frosts are 
entirely connected with the principles of radiation, and have 
little or nothing to do with the temperature of the atmospheric 
medium. If the soil is not of a sandy consistence, in that 
case I would employ a thin stratum of sand. I have in my 
little garden just such a surface inclined and sandy, and have 
planted vines with an intention to train them on the surface, 
on a framework, something like cucumbers or melons in the 
hot-bed. The vine I am making my experiments with is called 
Miller’s black grape. I have already had ample proof that 
the healthy luxuriance of other tender plants does not suffer, 
and that frost has little or no effect on such an exposure. 

For the purpose of maturing the fruit, I shall throw a 
veil of black gauze over the vines; and this will secure me the 
effects of a powerful absorption of the calorific rays of the 
sun’s beams. ‘Though the radiation from a black surface is 
proportional to its absorbent capacity, it will operate during 
the lengthened day (and at this period of the year the night 
is sedmnrsedl to its minimum) i in the maturation of the a uit, 
while the sandy surface is retentive, from its non- conducting 
character. If bunches of grapes on vines exposed sub dio, or 
reared in the open air, be tied up in white bags, they will 
scarcely ripen, are small, and want flavour; Se if other 
bunches on the same tree be confined in bags of black cr ape; 
the contrast is very striking, in the latter. being fully ripe, 
large, and of a flavour equal to those cultivated on a foreign 
soil. This fact explains the principle on which I would veil 
my vines with sable weeds; further explanation would, there- 
fore, be superfluous and unnecessary. 

Respecting the Chinese method of propagating fruit trees, 
it is merely requisite to detach a strip, or narrow riband, 
of bark from the branch or limb which is to be separated. 


Arboriculture in relation to Geology. 291 


The Chinese apply to this a ball of earth mingled with clay, 
to impart greater consistency to it, and this is covered with 
moss, and secured by bandages formed of some pliant ma- 
terial: a small pan, containing water, is suspended over it, 
and serves to keep the ball moist. ‘This method, as success- 
fully pursued in this country, was first pointed out to me by 
Sir Lauchlan MacLean of Sudbury. The Italians often adopt 
the plan; and I have seen a large orange tree, 14 feet high, 
loaded with growing fruit, thus separated from the aged 
parent stock, and exposed for sale in the market at Naples. 
I have witnessed the plan in full operation near the royal ob- 
servatory of that city. One obvious advantage is, that no 
time is lost in the growth of the tree; nay, the very abs- 
traction of the ring of bark from the branch rather expedites 
than otherwise the evolution of fruit. The Italians have 
improved on the rude plan of the Chinese, by enclosing in a 
tin case the stem of the future independent tree: it is filled 
with earth, pressed down, and covered with moss, which 
is preserved moist in the way I have already described. 
This part of it I have improved, by suspending the tin vessel 
which contains the water on an adjoining branch above the 
ball, while a woollen thread, previously moist, forms a line of 
communication, and affords a constant regular supply, on the 
principle of the siphon, and the capillary attraction of the 
fibres of the thread. A lid prevents the loss by evaporation 
from the surface of the water confined in the vessel. 

A linear mcision in the bark above a bud, it has been 
stated, will convert that bud into a branch. Last season I 
tried several experiments of this kind on a fig, cutting out a 
narrow strip of bark, over the bud, in the form of an inverted 
V, and succeeded in producing branches in five out of seven 
instances. The want of success in these two, I suspect, arose 
from the imperfect separation of the lips of the bark, and 
insufficient depth of the incision. 

Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 
Jan. 20. 1833. J. Murray. 


Art. VI. On Arboriculture tn relation to Geology. 
By CausIpIcus. 
Sir, 
I vEnTuRE to trouble you with some remarks on the pre- 
dilection which different trees indicate for different soils, in 
the hope that they may occasionally furnish hints to planters 


for their selection of species, and prevent the meagre, starved, 
U2 


292 Arboriculture in relation to Geology. 


and poverty-stricken appearance which is too often manifest, 
notwithstanding that heavy expenses have been incurred, when 
the planter has rather considered what trees he should like to 
see grow around him, than what trees the land is most con- 
genial to [see Vol. VII. p. 373.], or has given a general order 
to his nurseryman, leaving him to supply whatever is most 
abundant, or best grown, in his own stock, without giving him 
the necessary information as to the soil, situation, or climate, 
in which the plantations are to be made. 

The soils to which my observation has been principally 
directed, because I have been most familiar with them, are the 
calcareous strata, and particularly the chalk; a stratum which 
subtends a very considerable proportion of England ; extend- 
ing, with some intermission, from Beer in Dorsetshire to 
Flamborough Head in Yorkshire. This rock, though suf- 
ficiently porous to permit water to percolate through it, so that 
it is rarely troubled with surface water, yet has, like all other 
calcareous matter, a very strong attraction for water; and the 
consequence of these two properties, namely, its attraction for 
water, and its porous texture, is, that this soil operates as a 
sponge, suffering the superfluous water to sink down to a lower 
level, but retaining a quantity of water so closely combined 
with its own substance, that it will not freely give it out to the 
heat of the sun, although it long continues to afford a sufficient 
supply to the fibres of the vegetables which invest it. We 
accordingly see that the grass and herbage of the chalk 
downs do not burn up with the summer heat, even under a 
very high and long-continued temperature: if they appear 
brown or yellow, the colour is only that of the ripened stalks of 
the grass ; but the leaves are still ereen, and the corn and pulse 
crops on the chalk, even in a dry summer, are less deficient 
in straw than are the same crops on many other soils; and 
they never, through excess of heat or drought, fail of finding 
a competent supply of moisture below their roots, to swell the 
grain with farina of the best quality. This rock is, for the 
most part, too compact to admit the roots of trees freely to 
insinuate themselves into its fissures, until it has first been 
trenched, or otherwise broken up; but, as well the detritus 
which covers it (and which usually consists of a calcareous 
loam, varying, at different places in its depth, in the pro- 
portions of silex, of vegetable matter, and of argil, which are 
mixed with it), as also the chalk itself, when trenched, evince 
an aptitude for the growth of certain plants usually considered 
as aquatics, which we are surprised to see flourishing so lux- 
uriantly in very elevated situations, and far remote from any 
visible reservoir of water, either on the surface or beneath it. 
Thus, the abele, or silver poplar (Poépulus Alba), the black 


Arboriculture in relation to Geology. 293 


Italian poplar (P. acladésca), Lombardy poplar (P. dilatata), 
the red-twigved osier (Salix rubra), round-leaved sallow (Salix 
caprea), the Huntingdon willow (Salix alba ?), and the alder 
(Alnus glutinosa), all flourish with surprising success in a 
trenched chalk soil, though it be almost destitute of any surface 
covering of vegetable earth, and apparently barren. I regret 
that I have not made more extensive experiments in the cul- 
tivation of other species of aquatic trees on chalk soils; but 
those which I have mentioned ought to be considered as 
affording sufficient encouragement to try the Salix Russelliana 
(Bedford willow), Populus macrophylla, or Ontario poplar, 
and other valuable trees of similar habits. I feel, however, 
called on to declare, that I am not aware of having observed 
either of these trees spontaneously produced on the chalk, 
except the Salix caprea (sallow) and Populus alba (abele). 

The following is a catalogue of certain native British trees 
and shrubs which I have observed to grow spontaneously and 
vigorously on the chalk and its detritus: — 

Acer campéstre, common maple; Bétula alba, common 
birch ; Baxus sempervirens, tree box; Clématis Vitalba, tra- 
veller’s joy; Cornus sanguinea, common dogwood; Corylus 
Avellana, common hazel; Cratee'gus Oxyacantha, whitethorn ; 
Eudnymus europzus, European spindle tree; Fagus sylvatica, 
common beech; Fraxinus excélsior, common ash; Juglans 
regia, walnut; Juniperus communis, common juniper; Ligts- 
trum vulgare, privet; Populus alba, abele tree; Populus 
tremula, aspen tree; Prunus spinosa, blackthorn; Pyrus 
communis, wild pear tree; Pyrus Malus, common crab tree; 
Pyrus Avia, whitebeam tree ; Pyrus Sorbus, true service tree ; 
Quércus Robur, oak; Ahamnus catharticus, buckthorn; 
Rhamnus Frangula, berry-bearing alder, provincially black- 
wood ; Salix cdprea, round-leaved sallow ; Sambucus Z’bulus, 
dwarf elder [a herbaceous plant]; Sambucus nigra, common 
elder; Yaxus baccata, common yew; Tilia parvifolia, red- 
twigged linden tree; U/lmus montana, wych hazel; U/lmus 
campéstris, English elm; Vibtarnum O’pulus, Guelder rose, 
provincially coppice alder; Vibarnum Lantana, wayfaring 
tree, provincially whitewood. 

There are certain of the upper beds of the chalk, of a fine 
soft texture, the creta scriptoria, into which the roots of the 
oak so penetrate, as to make that tree flourish in a singular 
mamner, attaining in those situations great height, and having 
the bark of its young branches shining like silver, of beauty 
not inferior to that which adorns the silver bark of the oak 
woods on the schist of Devon; but, generally speaking, the 
oak on the chalk, though it ey propagates itself, 

U 


294: Arboriculture in relation to Geology. 


is small and stunted, and is by no means the most splendid 
sample of the species. ‘The ash, too, although it is spon- 
taneously propagated in great plenty, does not, except in 
certain soft beds of the chalk, attain great size; and it is 
extremely subject, on this, as well as on the mountain limestone, 
and on other calcareous soils, to be affected and destroyed by 
the canker; which disease often. also attacks and destroys 
some of the young beeches. 

With these materials, however, it is very practicable to 
create stately groves, dense covers, valuable timber, productive 
coppices, and beautiful and varied scenery. 

There are also plants, as well many exotics long esta- 
blished in this country as native species, which are not 
the spontaneous growth of this stratum, to which, never- 
theless, the chalk soil is congenial. Such are: — Acer pla- 
tanoides, Norway maple; -4’sculus Hippocastanum (pro- 
vided there be a depth of calcareous loam above the chalk 
rock); A'Inus glutindsa, common alder; Arbutus Unedo, 
arbutus; Adécuba japonica, Japanese gold plant; Baddlea glo- 
bosa, globe-flowered buddlea; Carpinus Bétulus, hornbeam; 
Cistus, numerous, probably all the hardy sorts; Colutea, 
bladder senna; Cornus alba, white-berried cornel; C¥tisus 
Labirnum, laburnum; CYtisus alpinus, Scotch laburnum ; 
Cftisus nigricans, black-rooted cytisus; Zuonymus latifolius, 
broad-leaved spindle tree; Kérrza (Corchorus) japonica, 
Japanese kerria; Latrus nobilis, common bay tree; hil- 
adélphus coronarius, mock orange; Platanus orientalis, orien- 
tal plane; Plétanus occidentalis, occidental plane; Pinus 
Larix, larch; Pinus Picea, silver fir; Pinus A‘bies, spruce 
fir; Pinus sylvéstris, Scotch pine; Pinus Strobus, Weymouth 
pine; Populus acladésca, black Italian poplar; Populus dila- 
tata, Lombardy poplar; Prinus armeniaca, apricot; Prunus 
insititia, bullace plum; Prinus doméstica, common plum; 
Rhaémnus Alatérnus, alaternus; /26sa moschata, musk-scented 
rose; Jitbus Idze‘us, raspberry; Sambucus racemdsa, red- 
berried elder; Z'huja orientalis, Chinese arbor vite; Thuja 
occidentalis, American arbor vite; Tilia europea, common 
Jinden tree; VibGrnum VTinus, laurustinus; and, doubtless, 
many others, which have not met any observation. 

Of the pine tribe, the larch seems to succeed best; next 
to that the Weymouth pine and the silver fir. On some 
exposed and barren parts of the chalk, even the hardy Scotch 
pine can attain no stature, at least if planted without pre- 
vious trenching; and in all, except the deepest and most 
fertile of the chalk loams, the spruce fir, though it may 
appear to flourish for a few years, yet, after a quarter of a 
century, it becomes stunted and starved; it loses its foliage, 


Arboriculture in relation to Geology. 295 


and either actually dies, or survives only to perpetuate the 
melancholy spectacle of a well-intended work injudiciously 
conducted. ‘The finest planes I ever saw were on the chalk, 
but situate in a bottom where there was a considerable depth 
of calcareous loam, mixed with flint gravel, interposed between 
their roots and the homogeneous rock. 

Although it may not strictly come within the scope of my 
present enquiry, yet it may not be amiss here to mention, 
for the sake of those who may have occasion to make wilder- 
ness walks or ornamented paths through a chalk country, a 
few of the herbs and flowers which either will spontaneously 
spring up, cr, if once introduced, are so congenial to the soil 
as to propagate and perpetuate themselves without any further 
care. Such are: — Anemone Pulsatilla, pasque flower ; Ane- 
mone nemorosa, wood windflower ; Antirrhinum majus, snap- 
dragon ; Aquilégia vulgaris, common columbine ; Camp4nula, 
all the species; Cistus, all the hardy species; Clématis, all the 
hardy species; Colchicum autumnale, meadow saffron; Con- 
vallaria majalis, lily of the valley ; Convallaria multiflora, Solo- 
mon’s seal; /umaria, fumitory ; Galanthus nivalis, snowdrop ; 
Hedysarum Onobrychis, saintfoin; Hedfsarum coronarium, 
French honeysuckle; Zilium candidum, white lily; Zilium 
Martagon, Turks-cap lily; Linaria Cymbalaria, ivy-leaved 
flaxwort; Linum perénne, perennial flax; Narcissus, many 
species and varieties of; O’rchis, many sorts; Papaver ori- 
entale, Eastern poppy, and all the poppies; Scabidsa arvénsis, 
corn scabious; Z'hymus Serpyllum, wild thyme; Verédnica, 
numerous species; Vinca major and minor, greater and 
smaller periwinkle. 

I also think it due to those who are disposed to clothe 
with wood the usually naked surface of the chalk hills, to 
‘point out to them the full indemnity for the expenses. of 
trenching their plantations, which they may derive from the 
culture of the parsnep, in the first and in other years of their 
operations, until the growth of their trees prevents its con- 
tinuance; for I have found that, even upon the most naked 
and apparently sterile chalk of the upper beds (where only I 
have tried it), with scarcely any mould over it, yet, if it be 
deeply trenched, the parsnep, without any manure, attains 
there, not only a most respectable size, but also an exquisite 
richness and sweetness, which I never obtained in that best 
of all roots, whether for the table, the stall, the stable, or the 
pigsty, upon any other soil. For two years at least, and, 
in some instances, for three or more, this culture may be pur- 
sued; after that time it will be found that the parsneps cannot 


be dug up without injuring the roots of the trees. A very 
u 4 


296 Arboriculture in relation to Geology. 


good return may also be obtained by cultivating the Salix 
rubra for basket twigs, in the interstices of the other trees, 
until their growth smothers the willow stools. 

As we advance from the chalk hills to the north-westward, 
the calcareous stratum of extent and importance which we 
next meet with is the great oolite, or Bath freestone rock. 
The trees upon this stratum do not materially differ from 
those which invest the chalk. If it usually is covered with a 
bed of hazel calcareous loam, of greater depth than commonly 
lies over the chalk, yet the rock, when we come to it, is 
generally more compact, harder, and more difficult to be 
trenched, than the chalk. The elm flourishes on this stratum 
more freely than on the chalk. I have had no opportunity of 
observing any experiment on the culture of the alder and 
poplar tribe on this stratum; but, the substance of the stone 
being less porous than the substance of the chalk, I should 
be thereby led to expect that these trees would not succeed. 
equally well here as on the chalk. I have seen the abele 
growing spontaneously and vigorously on this stratum. In 
the valleys which cut this stratum is usually found an extra- 
ordinary depth of rich friable loam, in which the Salix fragilis, 
or crack willow, and some others of the large willows, attain 
a great stature. The next great calcareous stratum, as we 
pass to the north-westward, is the mountain limestone, car- 
boniferous or metalliferous limestone. ‘This stratum is, in 
some respects, modified from the two preceding, by portions 
of a purple ferruginous clay, which, in certain places, are 
interposed in joints or other cavities of this rock, and also 
by layers of chert, and others of firestone, i. e. impure 
siliceous limestone, alternating with the beds of mountain 
limestone; and these heterogeneous rocks, and their detritus, 
in some parts materially affect and modify the soil which is 
spread over this stratum. We find on the mountain lime- 
stone (many of the vegetable products of which have been 
well elucidated by a correspondent in the Magazine of Natural 
History, vol.iii. p. 410—419.), the sycamore (4‘cer Psetido- 
Piatanus), the Pyrus hybrida, and most of the preceding plants 
which I have mentioned as natives of the chalk. ‘The holly 
(flex Aquifolium), too, is found here more frequently than on 
either of the preceding calcareous strata; fostered, no doubt, 
by the more abundant silex, which is supplied by the detritus 
of the interposed beds above mentioned ; and, from the same 
cause, the U‘lex europze‘a (whins, or French furze) usually in- 
vests in considerable plenty some of the uncultivated portions 
of this stratum. I remain, Sir, yours, &c. 


Sept. 20. 1832. CausIDICUS. 
(To be continued.) 


Batiering Axe for felling Timber. 297 


Art. VII. A Battering Axe for felling Timber. 
By Rosert MALLET, Esq. 
Sir, 

Ir has often appeared strange to me that the idea of the 
battermg ram has never, at least to my knowledge, been 
applied to the felling of timber. When timber is felled for 
the purpose of clearing, little more than mere strength and 
endurance are required; and the accumulation of the former, 
obtainable by means of the battering axe I here present 
(jig. 84.), would be very great: it could be readily pro- 


\ 84, 
\\ AX 


ST): 
ANY 
AWS : 


cured in places where the saws for this purpose could not be 
obtained. 

The figure hardly needs explanation. I use the wooden 
side frames, of the form represented, because they are very 
strong, and their toes would dig into the ground, and pre- 
vent recession from the blows of the axe. The axis of the 
battering axe above is long enough to allow the side frames to 
be approached or withdrawn respectively, to suit any-sized 
tree: a diagonal stay-bar, dropped upon a pin for the pur- 
pose, prevents all from falling sidewise. ‘The blade is made 
like a large socket, or like the spades called in Ireland 
** fecks,” and spiked to the wood. Four men can work at the 
one represented, and raise or lower the edge of the axe as 
required, those nearest the tree guiding it. Perhaps such a 
tool as this might be acceptable to many of your readers. 

Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 
Rosert Mater. 
Capel Street, Dublin, Feb. 5. 1833. 


298 Gymnécladus canadénsts, vr 


Art. VIII. On the Gymnécladus canadénsis, or Coffee Tree of 
North America. By A. P. Hart, Esq., Barrister at Law, of 
Montreal, Lower Canada, F. Mont. Nat. Hist. Soc. &c. 

Sir, . 

As there seems to be some incorrectness in your conception 
of the above tree, and as none of your correspondents have 
materially corrected your account of it, except my friend Dr. 
Mease of Philadelphia (Vol. VIII. p. 85.), who mentioned its 
being a large tree instead of a twining plant, I take the liberty 
of sending you a description of it, which I trust will not prove 
wholly uninteresting to you and your readers. * 

Pursh, in his Flora of North America, a very excellent but 
sometimes incorrect work, describes the Gymnécladus cor- 
rectly, as follows, under his column of the class Decandria 
Monoginia (Polypétale Regulares) :— 

“ Gymnécladus. Calyx tubulosus, quinquefidus. Petala 5 [I find in the 
barren trees 4, in the fertile 5], eequalia, tubo inserta. Stamina non ex- 
serta. Legumen uni-loculare, intus pulposum. Flores racemosi. Dioicus. 

“ Canadénsis 1. G. foliis bipinnatis, foliolis ovalibus acuminatis pubes- 
centibus.” — Pursh, vol.i. p.304.; Willd. Sp. Pl. iv. p.816.; Mich. fl. 
Amer.; Mich. arb. e. 3.; Lam. illus. 823.; Duham. arb. 1. t. 103. 

The Gymnociadus is of the Linnean class Dice‘cia Decan- 
dria, and of the Jussieuean order Leguminosz. It is a tree 
averaging from 30 ft. to 60 ft., and 10 in. to 13 in. in diameter ; 
and flowers from May to July, with white flowers, succeeded 
by large brown pods, which contain 6 or 8 seeds of a hard 
consistence and greyish spotted colour. Leaves from 1 ft. to 
3 ft. long, and from 10 in. to 20 in. broad, bipinnate, or doubly 
compound, and composed of leaflets of a darkish dull green 
colour, and ovate-acuminate figure. ‘The bark is very rough, 
and the inner bark so bitter and pungent, that a very small 
piece will cause violent irritation and inflammation when de- 
cocted: the extract is aromatic, and highly aperient. The 
wood is of a fine grain, and very compact and strong; colour 
rosy: it makes a pretty wood for cabinet-work; and Browne+ 
says, “ that, like the locust, it has the valuable property of 
rapidly converting its sap into perfect wood; so that a trunk 
6 in. in diameter has only six lines of sap, and may be em- 
ployed almost entire.” At least one half of the tree is branch- 


* This error probably occurred from the accidental transposition of a 
few lines, in the notes, by the copier of our MS. We knew the tree in Dick- 
son’s nursery, at Edinburgh, thirty years ago; and had, for some years be- 
fore the Encyclopedia of Plants was published, one in our own arboretum 
at Bayswater. The proofs of the Encyclopedia of Plants received their 
final correction from Professor Lindley, as stated in the preface, page iv. ; 

- and, as the error escaped that gentleman, it is no wonder that it should 
have been unseen by us. — Cond. 

+ Sylva Americana, by D. J. Browne. S8vo, pp.407. Boston, 1832. 


Coffee Tree of North America. 299 


less, and the rest very regular; the terminal branches of large 
size, and the branches but few in number. 

It is a native of Canada (Upper and Lower), the Gennessee 
country, Kentucky, and Tennessee, and all along the Ohio 
and Illinois rivers. It is called by the French Gros Févier 
(bean tree), from the size and shape of its pods; and Chicot 
(stump tree), from the dead appearance of the tree in winter. 
It is also called coffee tree, from its seeds being burnt and 
used as a substitute for coffee; though they form rather a poor 
one, as the coffee made from them is very rank and bitter. 

Some trees of the Gymnocladus are barren, and others fer- 
tile; and I see that Browne notices a peculiarity which I have 
ever observed, that of the epidermis, which is entirely rough, 
detaching itself in small hard transverse strips rolled back- 
wards at the ends, and projecting from the tree, so as easily 
to distinguish it from other trees. 

I saw, in July last, on the borders of Lake Ontario, a beau- 
tiful specimen of the Gymnocladus canadénsis, measuring 
53 ft. high and 163 in. indiameter. It had not a single branch 
on it up to the height of 19 ft.; but the summit formed a 
perfect mass of tufted foliage interspersed with the white blos- 
soms, which were then nearly out of bloom. I have now 
twelve or fourteen young trees, which, in the spring, I shall send 
to England and Scotland, and am confident that the Gymno- . 
cladus will not be thought the least ornamental tree which you 
could recommend to your friends. —I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

Montreal, Nov. 1. 1832. A. P. Harr. 


Many of our gardening friends have seen the leaf of the Gymndécladus 
canadénsis, which, although not especially remarkable in the figure of its 
leaflets (see the Encyclopedia of Plants, p.842. fig. 13987.), is so in its 
triply pinnate structure and bough-like amplitude, as scarcely a yard square 
would include its extreme points. The legume, of which we possess a 
specimen, received on August 27. 1832., from Mrs. Seaton of Washington, 
is 53 in. in length, and nearly 2 in. (12) in breadth: it is of a red brown 
colour, smooth even to a slight degree of polish, but uneven here and there, 
from the prominence of nerves, which rise at the under edge of the legume, 
and pass across to the upper edge, and are branched in their progress : 
the under edge is straight, the upper curved convexly. The legume, to- 
wards its under edge, is compressed flat, but towards the upper edge a 
little tumid from the seeds within, which are affixed to the upper edge by 
a white stoutish funiculus % of an inch in length, 3 to one valve, 2 to the 
other. Each seed is circular, nearly & of an inch across, and so flattened as 
to be not more than half an inch thick, of an olive brown colour, and as 
hard as stone. All the space within the legume, not occupied by the seed, 
is filled with a tenacious dark brown gummy pulp, which, to the taste, is at 
first sweet, but is followed by a bitterish slightly acrid flavour. The idea 
of “ stump tree,” as applied above, seems identical with that conveyed by 
botanists in the term Gymnocladus, from gymmnos, naked, and klados, a 
branch. G. canadénsis sometimes reaches 80ft. in height, as stated in 
Vol. VIII. p. 272. — J. D. 


300 Effects of Barbadoes Naphtha. 


Art. IX. A Mode of multiplying, and inducing to healthy Growth, 
the White double-flowered and Purple double-flowered Rockets. 
By Mr. Witt1am Wurppoy, Gardener. 

Sir, 

As some of my friends have expressed a desire to become 
acquainted with my mode of propagating those beautiful 
ornaments of the flower-garden, white and purple rockets, 
I have referred them for a description of it to the Gardener’s 
Magazine. My method is as follows: — As soon as the 
plants have done flowering, I cut the flower stems half-way 
down: by so doing, several small shoots will appeat at the 
uppermost part of the portion of the stem left remaining. I 
then draw a small quantity of soil round the stools, and, if the 
weather is dry, I give them water at different times. I then 
make a bed, under a south wall, of equal parts of loam, leaf 
soil, and sand. I next take off all the strongest shoots, either 
at the root, or the upper part of the stalks, and plant them in 
the prepared bed. In about a month I go over them again, 
and take away all the strongest shoots, and plant them as 
before; by so doing the shoots left have a better chance of 
growing. I continue in the above practice until I have taken 
all the shoots from the parent plants, which then generally 
die. Last summer I purchased four plants of the white and 
two of the purple rockets, and by the above plan I have a 
bed of between forty and fifty fine plants from them; those 
which were taken off first are certainly the finest, but those 
taken off last are fine plants; they have many and strong 
roots; and, as soon as the weather will permit, I shall plant 
them in the borders with a portion of the same composition. 
They are now growing in, and I expect they will greatly 
improve the appearance of, my flower-garden, next mid- 
summer. Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 

Wititiam Wuippon. 

Chicheley, Bucks, Jan. 25. 1833. 


Art. X. On the Effects of Barbadoes Naphtha on Trees and on 
Horses. By Dr. C. H. Wi1Lxkinson, Bath. 


Mr. Crarx, Mr. Leigh, and many other eminent veterina- 
rians, and private gentlemen as well, have extensively em- 
ployed the Barbadoes naphtha, with the greatest success, in 
farcy and other cutaneous affections in the horse; and also, 
with equal advantage, in all species of chronic coughs, accom- 
panied with loss of appetite, &c. When naphtha is applied 


Improved Mode of tongueing Layers. 301 


to the hoofs, it restores that pliability and elasticity which are 
always observed in the healthy condition of the feet: on the 
contrary, when oleaginous substances, or those tarry mixtures 
artificially made from coal or wood are applied, the horny 
structure of the hoof is rendered more brittle, and more des- 
titute of its organic character. 

From some recent experiments as to the results of its 
agency in morbid affections of trees, its curative and preven- 
tive powers have lately been most satisfactorily demonstrated, 
particularly in that species of ulcerative process which arises 
from the agency of the American A’phis, or bug *, as well as 
from other causes where the bark, alburnum, and even the 
wood becomes so much destroyed as to prevent the capability 
of bearing fruit, from such an extensive interruption to the 
motion of the sap. When the diseased part has been fre- 
quently coated with this naphtha, a very curious and quick 
change takes place in the alburnum and the bark, the solu- 
tions of continuity [that is, the gaps, clefts, and openings] are 
removed, and the sap’s operations restored, and the tree en- 
abled to perform its healthy vegetating functions. Oils and 
artificial preparations from tar, either the product of wood or 
coal, had been found inefficient, undoubtedly depending on 
the different conditions of arrangement in the elementary 
principles of those substances, and the natural distillation 
from the rocks of Barbadoes. In the former, the elementary 
atoms of carbon, hydrogen, and exygen are in chemical com- 
bination, not admitting of being decomposed by the agency 
of animal or vegetable substance; whilst Barbadoes naphtha, 
or rock oil, is a solution of carbon in hydrogen; the latter 
serving as the carrying medium to the sap vessels, producing 
the same restorative effects as have been attempted. to be ex- 
plained with regard to its agency on the absorbent system in 
the animal kingdom. 


Art. XI. An improved Mode of tongueing Layers. 
By Mr. James Munro. 
Sir, 

Tuere has been much talk of late in your Magazine 
regarding the propriety of shutting of mouths. This advice 
is much easier given than taken, as every one will allow who 

* Does such “ ulcerative process” ever arise from the American A'phis, 
or bug? Do not the countless individuals of this species invariably follow, 


not precede and occasion, any “ ulcerative process” that may be found 
where they are? —J, D. 


302 Improved Mode of tongueing Layers. 


has had the misfortune of being seated by a drowsy-headed 
fellow who kept yawning at every five minutes’ interval. 
We say in Scotland that “ ganting is smitsum” (yawning is 
infectious): be that as it may; I shall at present content 
myself with the knowledge of the fact, that, by some mys- 
terious pressure on the sympathetic nerves, it is almost 
impossible to resist imitating our neighbour when afflicted 
with this ungraceful malady. For my own part, I am no 
enemy to opening mouths. It is, indeed, said that a close 
mouth catches no flies. Now, Sir, this is wrong in principle; 
for much better have small fish than no fish: and, in firm 
faith of this doctrine, I humbly beg leave to lay before you 
an open mouth; and, in doing so, feel convinced that it will 
require no mysterious visitation on the sympathies to induce 
others to follow my example. 

Most of your readers, and particularly your practical 
friends, of course understand what is meant by the phrase 
‘“‘ tongueing of layers;” and many of them have, no doubt, 
in common with myself, experienced no small mortification 
on account of the frequent snappings asunder of the shoots, 
when performing this operation on some favourite stool; not 
to mention the difficulty often experienced in making the 
tongue (at best an unruly member) keep its proper position. 
In the year 1829, I had a very fine stool of Rose Vittoria *, 
with upwards of forty strong shoots. This was a prize not 
to be neglected. “ Five times s forty,” said I, “are ten pounds.” 
Accordingly I set to work with all the pomp of an expe- 
rienced propagator. A quantity of vegetable mould was 
deposited on my right, and on my left a quantity of pit sand. 
My penknife travelled over the surface of a Water of Ayr 
stone with the rapidity of a waggon on the Manchester rail- 
way, till at length all was right, and in went the knife below 
an eye; and the first shoot snapped in two. At this moment 
the idea struck me to enter the knife fairly through the next 
shoot, which I did, bringing it right up the centre of the 
pith, passing through two or three eyes, until I had made an 
opening of four inches in length. I call this mouthing 
layers. ‘To prevent this layer ‘from shutting its mouth, ii 
inserted a small stone between its lips. This some of your 
quizzical friends would call gageing. In this manner all the 
rest of the shoots were laid down ; and the quantity of fibres 
produced by this mode was most satisfactory : both the upper 
and under lip were furnished in such a manner as would have 


* This splendid dark rose was raised from seed, in the Perth nursery, 
by Mr. Robert Brown, then a member of the firm, and is equal, if not 
superior, to any rose yet produced. 


On cultivating the Pine-apple. 303 


justified competition with the sturdiest hussar in his majesty’s 
service. 

In consequence of the non-residence of some of our gentry, 
and the idea which prevails that nothing can be good or 
right unless it come from London or Edinburgh, there is but 
little of this kind of work required in this or, I may say, in 
any little country nursery: but any laying which I have had 
to do for the last two or three years has been done in the 
above manner; only I have discontinued the use of small 
stones, and substituted a more palatable morsel, namely, a 
little decayed moss (Hypnum), and sometimes a small piece 
of grafting clay. 

Upon a trial of this method of laying, propagators will find 
less risk of breaking; and, by not separating any part of the 
shoot from the main body, as is the case in tongueing in the 
ordinary way, an extensive callosity is formed, and an abun- 
dance of fibres occasioned. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Brechin, April 17. 1833. James Munro. 


Art. XII. On cultivating the Pine-apple. 
By Mr. THomMas ApPLEBy. 


Sir, 

AGREEABLY to promise, [ shall now endeavour to detail to 
you the methods I adopt in cultivating the pine-apple. I hope 
my brother gardeners will not charge me with presumption 
in any expressions I may use. I am induced to write this ac- 
count solely by a wish to oblige you, and a desire to be useful 
to the younger part of them, if any thing I have to say can 
assist them in an employment to which I feel so much attached. 
I do not assume to have made any discovery in the culture of 
this esteemed fruit; but I will detail the plans I follow, and 
the opinions I have formed. 

Unfortunately for the pines under my care, the hot-houses 
here are not well constructed, being old and badly glazed, that 
is, with wide overlapping; the rafters, also, are very heavy 
and broad, intercepting a great deal of light: besides, we grow 
here a vine trained up each rafter. ‘These circumstances 
combined are by no means favourable to the growth of the 
pine-apple. 

To grow this exotic to perfection, it is necessary to protect 
it from the severity of the climate all the year ; and that mode 
of protection is best which admits the greatest quantity of light. 


304 On cultivating the Pine-apple. 


I conclude, therefore, that metallic rafters, and accurate 
glazing, giving the glass as little lap as possible, are great 
advantages: however, itis seldom in the power of the gardener 
to obtain a situation furnished with these extraordinary faci- 
lities ; and it is therefore his interest, as well as his duty, to 
make the best he can of the circumstances in which he is 
placed. Artificial heat is also indispensably necessary in this 
branch of horticulture. The mode in which it is furnished 
here has been detailed already in your Magazine; the heat 
supplied is perfectly mild, and can, with great facility, be 
augmented, or diminished, as circumstances require. There 
is also an excellent opportunity of creating a mild and sweet 
moisture amongst the plants, by watering the heated stone 
steam flues. ‘This plan has been practised eleven years, and 
before the mode of heating with warm water was known in 
this part of the country. 

The most eligible mode for growing pine plants is, un- 
doubtedly, in the rejected bark of tanners; the less it is 
exhausted by bruising or boiling, the better it is adapted for 
the purpose, as the tannin preserves it from decay. 

The two most frequent evils, in growing pines, are keeping 
them in too hot a pit, and suffering the soil in the pots to 
become too dry. Too great a heat from the bark must be 
avoided by a regular supply of fresh bark to the front and back 
of the pit, so as to prevent the necessity of wanting a large 
quantity at the time of shifting, &c., the pines, by riddling the 
earthy part out of the old bark, and mixing the old and new 
well together, to prevent excessive fermentation. 

The bark heat is too great if it be above 100° of Fahrenheit’s 
thermometer. The heat may be checked by pouring water 
on the bark bed, by piercing perpendicular holes with a strong 
smooth rod of considerable thickness, and by keeping the 
houses cooler than usual, and by the more free admission of 
air. 

With respect to water, I bestow that element more liberally 
a great deal than is customary. If the temperature in any 
day rise to 80° inside, the pines in fruit may safely be syringed 
over the whole herb, three, four, or, in hot weather, six days 
in the week. Whenever I anticipate any sun, at any time of 
the year, I give these pines an abundance of water by the 
syringe: many gardeners, who have come to see me in 
November or December, have expressed surprise at seeing 
me syringing the pines at that season ; but they could not help 
saying that the plants looked well, and were swelling off their 
fruit very surprisingly. The succession plants are also 


syringed regularly from March to September: during this 


On cultivating the Pine-apple. 305 


operation, and on days when the syringe is not employed, I 
keep up a considerable degree of moisture in the internal air, 
by pouring water on the flues containing the steam. ‘The only 
point to be attended to, in the use of such a profusion of water 
as I employ, is, to see that, either by sunshine or artificial heat, 
the seeming excess of water is evaporated. 

The principle of watering at the roots, that I practise, is, 
to give water, as soon as the surface of the soil in the pots 
appears dry, which, with me, is generally about once a week, 
I give the most water to the white Providence, Enville, and 
queen’s; and less to the Antigua, Havannah, and Montserrat 
kinds. The quantity to be given to each plant depends on 
such circumstances, that it must always be left to the discretion 
of the gardener who has the charge of them. I give quite as 
much more in summer as in winter. The water used is made, 
in Mr. Knight’s manner, as rich as possible, by mixing with 
it the richest manure I can obtain; generally hen-dung and 
soot: this is used from March to September, and once or 
twice in October : it is given to ping plants of every age. The 
temperature of the water, when given, is 90°. I cease wa- 
tering either by the syringe, or at the root, as soon as I 
perceive a change for ripening. It is always an object with 
me, to keep all the plants “ slowly growing at all seasons of the 
year.” 

I take off no roots at any time but such as may have become 
dead; and I attend particularly to draining the soil in the 
pots, by placing at the bottom of each pot some clean river 
gravel, cleared from all sand: and upon this I put a little 
moss, to prevent the soil from washing down, and filling up 
this draining. 

The soil I use is as open as possible, consisting of rotten 
sods, and vegetable mould in a decaying state, (formed of small 
sticks, leaves, &c.), and well-rotted cow-dung, in equal parts, 
with one tenth of ground bones mixed together when wanted ; 
as I am of opinion that the long preparation and frequent 
turning of the soil are not only unnecessary, but injurious. 
The pine-apple is a gross feeder, and will thrive in vegetable 
manure, however rich or fresh. I have reason to think 
coagulated blood may be used éo give increased richness to the 
soul, with benefit. 

A frequent and very injurious practice is, placing the plants 
too thick in the bed, and by that means preventing their re- 
gular expansion, and free growth in their natural form. In 
the succession house, my best plants, in the back row, are more 
than a yard asunder, and they diminish in distance to the 
front row, where they average eighteen inches asunder ; 

Vor. IX. — No. 44. x 


306 On cultivating the Pine-apple. 


my object being, that each plant may lay its leaves in their 
natural position, without being interfered with by the adjacent 
ones. Many think this a sacrifice of space; but I have found 
we always obtain both healthier and more robust plants, and 
much better fruit. 

I use deep pots, and have them, as much as_ possible, 
plunged quite up to the rims. My best pines in the last 
potting are left unfilled up; and in the spring I pull off a few 
of the lower leaves, remove part of the exhausted soil, and 
add about five inches of fresh compost, with a quart of bone 
dust extra, to each plant. This application gives great fertility 
at the time the plant is fruiting, and saves the danger and in- 
convenience of potting, tying up, &c. 

I continue my attention to every plant till it has perfected 
its fruit; never huddling any plants together, under the idea 
that they will fruit off just as well. 

With respect to giving air, I never admit any into the 
house where the plants are in fruit, until the thermometer 
indicates 80°. The succession house having vines in it, I 
must, of course, give air to suit them, which is generally such 
as suits the pines also. 

During bright sunshine I keep the walks always wet. 

I consider it of importance to have, at least, two fruiting- 
houses; one for plants in fruit for winter, and the other for 
those for summer. By keeping them separate, the plants in 
fruit (especially in winter) can be properly syringed, watered, 
and kept at a higher temperature than would be prudent if 
they were mixed with those intended to fruit the spring 
following. 

Iam afraid I have lengthened this article too much; but 
you will admit the importance of the subject, and agree that 
minuteness, however tedious it may appear, is necessary to 
the proper care of this excellent vegetable. I have sent you, 
herewith, a journal and register to which I refer, and shall be 
happy if any of your readers shall derive any information 
from my communication. Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 

Tuomas APPLEBY. 


Journal. 


I sHaxx now detail to you all the operations in pine culture 
for this year, as they were performed daily. Considerable 
repetition in words, as in the actions, must unavoidably occur. 
To some, perhaps, this journal may be of more service than 
general observations. Young gardeners would find it advan- 
tageous to copy it, and compare the different modes adopted 
at other places with the one here described. I do not say 


On cultivating the Pine-apple. 307 


that I shall exactly do the same next year, but I shall not vary 
much. It may happen that the seasons, or other circum- 
stances, may cause a few days’ difference, but the general 
principles will be acted upon. It is necessary to mention that 
the succession house is called the large stove; the two fruiting 
houses are distinguished as the Calcutta and melon house, the 
latter having been put up for growing melons in, but now 
used as a pine stove: it has two pits in it. 


5. 


13. 
20. 


24. 


January, 1832. 
Pines watered with clear water, heated to 80° or 90°, very sparingly: 
such as were ripening not watered at all. 
Pines watered with clear water. 
The bark bed in the melon house having sunk below the kerb-stones, 
some fresh bark was put in to fill it up. The bark bed in the large 
stove, renewed last November, having become temperate, the pit was 
filled up with fresh bark. 
Pines watered with clear water. 


February. 
Pines watered with lime water, to kill any worms there might be in or 
under the pots. To make it, use half a peck of lime to 16 gallons of 
water; suffer it to settle, and skim off the oil-like substance that 
floats on the surface. 


. Pines watered with clear water. 
. Pines watered with clear water. 
. The different soils for pine compost got into the sheds to dry, as they 


are intended to be potted next month. The compost is made as 
follows: — One part loam, one part vegetable mould, and one part 
well rotted cow-dung, and about one tenth ground bones. 


March. 


. Pines watered with clear water. 
. Commenced the general spring shifting of the pines, by taking the old 


stumps of fruiting plants out, and pulling off the suckers. The old 
bark removed out of the front pit in the melon house, and fresh bark 
got in. Some pines having shown fruit in the succession house, they 
were taken out and plunged into the pit renewed in the melon house. 


. Calcutta pit renewed, by riddling the dust out of the old bark, and 


mixing the remainder with new bark. 

The succession plants tied carefully up with broad bast mat, and re- 
moved into the potting shed: a few of the best plunged into the pit 
in the Calcutta house to fruit. All those intended to fruit top-dressed, 
by removing part of the exhausted soil, and substituting a very rich 
compost (made so by mixing it with bone dust) to earth up the plants 
with. 


. Succession plants potted, the largest into pots 12 in. to 15 in. diameter ; 


the rest into pots in proportion to their size: potted them deep in the 
pots. Previously to potting, I shook off all the earth of such as were 
not well rooted, trimmed off all dead roots, and removed a few of the 
bottom leaves, to allow the more free emission of new roots. No 
good lively roots taken off at all; did not what is called disroot any : 
I think it a bad practice, for which no sensible reason can be given. 
A few clean very small pebbles put at the bottom of each pot, in the 
larger pots three inches, the smallest half an inch each, to drain the 
water off: a little moss put over the pebbles, to prevent the drain from 
filling up. The bark bed in the large stove renewed, by mixing five 


x 2 


308 


On cultivating the Pine-apple. 


large loads of fresh bark with the old, keeping about a foot of the 
old at top, to plunge the pines in. 


9. The succession plants half-plunged in the bark pit of the large stove. 


10. 


17. 
24. 


17 


I gave them plenty of room, considerably more than they had through 
the winter, as I expected they would make free growth through the 
summer. One row of small plants put in front of the Calcutta pit. 
As much old bark taken out of the back pit in the melon house as 
could be removed without disturbing the pots, and the vacuity filled 
up with fresh bark, to renew the heat. A little clear water given to 
all the pines, to settle the earth about the plants: 1 do not approve 
of much water until they begin to grow again. As much steam as 
possible raised by watering the flues, in order to encourage fresh 
growth. 

Watered the fruiting pines with clear water. 

Watered all the pines with liquid manure, made of one peck of fowls’ 
dung, a quarter of a peck of quicklime, and a quarter of a peck of 
soot, pouring upon it three gallons of boiling water, and adding thirteen 
gallons of soft cold water, which left it at a temperature of about 80°. 


. Pines in the fruiting houses watered with liquid manure ; the succession 


plants watered with clear soft water. 
April. 


. Pines watered with liquid manure. 

. Pines watered with liquid manure. 

. Pines watered with clear water. 

. Watered the pines with liquid manure. 


May. 
Watered the pines with liquid manure. 


. Pines watered with liquid manure. 
. Pines watered with liquid manure. 


Pines watered with liquid manure. 

The winter fruiting pmes having all ripened in the front pit of the 
melon house, the stumps taken out, the suckers pulled off, and the pit 
renewed. 


June. 


. Examined the bark pit in the large stove, and found the heat moderate, 


so got a load of fresh bark, and filled it up to the rims of the pots; 
the old stumps of Providence pines, repotted last August, having pro- 
duced a good sucker each, they were this day taken out, the sucker 
carefully pulled off, and stuck in among the bark in the fruiting 
pits. The row of succession plants, plunged in the front of the 
Calcutta, having grown very well, they were potted; and also such 
suckers or crowns as had rooted among the bark in the fruiting 
house were potted; and all of them plunged in the front pit of the 
melon house. 

Pines watered with liquid manure, except such as were ripening or 
newly potted. 


. Watered the pines with liquid manure. 

. Pines watered with liquid manure. 

. Pines watered with limewater. 

. Pines watered with liquid manure. The season being now very 


warm, water was given very freely, so as to make the soil quite wet. 
July. 


. Pines watered with liquid manure. 


Pines watered with liquid manure. 
Succession plants tied carefully up with broad bast mat, and taken 
into the shed to be potted. 


18. 


19. 


20. 


21. 


22 


12. 


13. 


16. 


23. 


On cultivating the Pine-apple. 309 


Succession pines potted in the same manner as in March, which see. 
The bark pit for them renewed. 

Half-plunged the succession plants. 

The old stumps of Providence pines fruited this season taken out, the 
leaves shortened, and the balls of earth shook clean off, all decayed 
roots cut off, and the stumps repotted in fresh good earth to produce 
suckers (this variety being very shy of increase). Plunged them in a 
part of the pit in the melon house. The two pits in the melon house 
turned, and four loads of fresh bark put in to raise them to their 
proper height. The Providence pines to fruit next year plunged up 
to the rims in the back pit. (This pit never heats too much, it being 
shallow and narrow.) 

Some Montserrat pines that were showing fruit, and had been reserved 
from the succession house, were plunged in the front pit of the melon 
house for winter fruit. Fruiting pines watered with liquid manure. 
The rest of the pmes newly potted gently syringed over the leaves as 
usual. Plenty of steam raised morning and evening, to encourage 
fresh growth in the newly potted plants. 

A pine pit in a vinery, called the top stove, filled with fresh bark, and 
all the suckers, crowns, &c., potted and plunged in it. 


August. 


. Pines newly potted watered with clear water, fruiting pines with rich 


water ; such as were ripening not watered at all. 


. The weather having been very wet, could not water till this day, and 


then with clear water. 


. Pines watered with clear water. 
. Bark pits in the melon house having sunk below the kerb-stones, they 


were filled up with fresh bark. The large succession pit having 
become rather temperate, it was partly filled up with fresh bark. 


. Pines watered with liquid manure. 


September. 


. Watered the pines with liquid manure. 
. Pines watered with liquid manure. - 


Pines watered with liquid manure. 


. Pines watered with liquid manure. 
. Pines watered with clear water. 


October. 


. Pines watered with clear water. 
. Bark pit in the succession house filled quite up to rims of the pots 


and kerb-stones. Most of the pines in the Caleutta house being cut, 

the old stumps removed, the suckers taken off, and the rest tied up. 

The bark bed filled up with old bark from the front pit in the melon 

house; this pit being subject to get too hot with new bark, on 

account of the steam pipes running quite round to supply the other 

houses. 

Front pit of the melon house filled up with fresh bark. The fruiting 

pines that were in it, and the others tied up yesterday, plunged in 

the Calcutta house, to swell off their fruit this winter. 

Succession plants brought from the top stove, and plunged in the front 
it of the melon house. 

ite the last four or five days there has been dull weather, often rainy, 

and always very misty, with heavy dews; so did not water until this 

day, and then with clear water. 

Pines watered with liquid manure, intended to be the last time this 
season. The bark pit in the Calcutta house having become too hot, 

the pines were moved backward until they stood in hollow cavities, 


x 3 


810 On cultivating the Pine-apple. 


Holes were also made with a thick strong rod, to suffer the heat to 
escape. 

27. The pit was well watered with lime water, for two purposes; to kill the 
worms, and cool the bed. 

29. The worms all killed, and a fine moisture arising from the bark with 
watering. 

November. 
1. Pines watered with clear water, sparingly. 
12. Pines watered with clear water, sparingly. 
21. Pines watered with clear water. 


December. 
4. Pines watered with clear water. 

18. Pines watered with clear water. 

19. The heat of the large pit continuing pretty strong, it was not thought 
needful to renew it until the shifting time in March. Part of the old 
bark removed from the outsides, and as much fresh bark as possible 
put in to fill up the pit. 

28. Pines watered with clear water. 


Register of Heat in the Pine Stoves. 


Tue following is the register of the heat in the pine stoves : 
it is kept by my assistant, and is taken down into a book for 
that purpose. The heat will generally be found highest at 
noon, and lowest in the morning, it having gradually fallen 
during the night. ‘The heat of the fruiting house is taken 
from one in which pines are in fruit all the year, the plants 
having always shown before they were brought into it: they 
could then be managed, as to watering, syringing, &c., as 
before described. By referring to the column of the external 
weather, it may be seen that the heat is the highest on clear 
bright sunny days; which I take to be perfectly natural, as I 
think it not needful, in growing pines, to keep up the heat 
every day alike; the same on bright sunny days as on cloudy, 
rainy, or frosty ones. 


Succession. Fruiting. Weather. 
Jan. | mo. no. ni, | mo, no. ni. 
1 | 61 60 60 | 66 76 70 | rainy morn, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
2 | 56 59 57 | 65 78 72 | cloudy morn, cloudy no,keen frosty ni. 
3 | 57 61 63 | 65 76 76 | keenfrosty mo, cloudy noon, cloudy ni. 
4 | 59 60 61 | 65 74 66 | cloudy morn, cloudy noon, cloudy ni. 
5 | 52 62 55 3 75 72 | fine morn, fine noon, keen frosty night. 
6 | 52 60 59 | 65 72 65 | keen frosty m,keen frosty no, keen fr ni. 
7 | 57 59 58 | 66 70 72 | keen frost m, keen frost no, thawing ni. 
8 | 58 62 61 | 68 75 69 | rainy morn, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
9 | 60 61 60 | 68 70 68 | cloudy morn, rainy noon, cloudy night. 
10 | 58 65 60 | 66 74 69 | drizzly morn, drizzly noon, rainy night. 
11 | 61 65 66 | 72 72 76 | rainy morn,cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
12 | 59 62 62 | 68 73 68 | rainy morn, rainy noon, rainy night. 
13. | 58 68 64 | 68 74 76 | cloudy morn, cloudy noon, cloudy ni. 
14 | 57 60 60 | 64 74 68 | rainy morn, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
15 4 53 62 59 | 63 71 76 | snowy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
16 | 55 61 60 | 66 76 70 | frost morn, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 


MHIACPWHOE 


Succession. 
mo. no. ni 


59 
62 
58 
58 
54 


65 


64: 
67 
66 
62 
70 
64 
67 
69 
67 
64: 
62 
61 
74 
68 


65 
56 
64 
69 
69 
70 
63 
73 


64 
63 
64 


On cultivating the Pine-apple. 


Fruiting. 


mo. 


71 
12 
70 
68 
64: 


Weather. 


mild morn, cloudy noon, warm night. 
cloudy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
fine morn, fine noon, cloudy night. 
fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
keen frosty m, cloudy noon, cloudy ni. 
fine frosty morn,sunny noon, cloudy ni. 
cloudy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
cloudy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
sunny morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
frosty morn, cloudy noon, frosty nig ht. 
strong frosty morn, fine noon, frosty ni. 
keen frosty mo, cloudy no, thawing ni. 
fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
frosty morn, cloudy noon, cloudy ni. 


drizzly morn, drizzly noon, cloudy ni. 
cold cloudy m, cold clo no, cold clo ni. 
cold cloudy m, cold clo no, cold clo ni. 
cloud m, fine sunny no, strong windyni. 
fine mo, ‘fine sunny no, warm windy ni. 
warm windy mo, cloudy no, cloudy ni. 
cloud warm mo, showery no, cloudy ni. 
fine morn, fine sunny noon, fine nig ht. 
cloudy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
frosty morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
fine morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
cloudy morn, warm noon, warm night. 
cloudy morn, cloudy noon, cloudy ni. 
cloudy morn, cloudy noon, cloudy ni. 
frosty morn, fine sunny noon, fine ni. 
keen frosty morn, sunny noon, fine ni. 
keen frosty morn, fine sunny no, fine ni. 
keen fro m, fine sunny no, fine clear ni. 
frosty morn, sunny noon, fine clear ni. 
frosty morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
misty cold morn, cloudy no, cloudy ni. 
misty cold morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
misty warm m, fine sun no, fine clear ni. 
keen frosty m, fine sunny noon, fine ni. 
fine morn, sunny noon, fine evening. 
warm cloudy m, war cl noon, war cl ni. 
fine m, cloudy cold no, cloudy cold ni. 
fine morn, sunny cold noon, fine night. 


fine mo, cloudy cold no, cloudy cold ni. 
drizzly morn,cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy cold m, cloudy noon, cloudy ni. 
misty morn, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy morn, drizzly noon, rainy night. 
drizzly morn, cloudy noon, cloudy ni. 
rainy morn, rainy noon, rainy night. 

slight snowy mo, fine sunny no, fine ni. 


x 4 


31] 


312 On cultivating the Pine-apple. 
Succession. Fruiting. 
March) mo. no. ni. | mo. no. ni. ee 
9 | 53 69 61 | 69 73 72 | strong frosty m, cloudyno, fine clear ni. 
10 | 55 76 61 | 69 95 75 | frosty morn, clear sunny noon, fine ni. 
11 | 57 72 69 | 77 79 75 | slight frosty m,sunny no, very warm ni. 
12 55 65 69 | 70 79 77 | fine clear m,cloud warmno, fine war ni. 
13. | 62 67 64 | 71 76 76 | cloudy mo, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
14 | 63 79 69 | 74 83 70 | fine clear morn, sunny clear no, fine ni. 
15 | 60 68 63 | 62 74 72 | cloudy morn, cloudy no, fine clear ni. 
16 | 59 73 64) 71 77 74 | cloudy morn, fine sunny noon, fine ni. 
17 | 62 66 65 | 73 76 74 | cloudy m, cloudy no, strong windy ni. 
18 | 61 69 64 | 65 72 64 | strong windy m, cloudy no, showery ni. 
19 60 67 69 | 62 72 79 | cloudy morn, cloudy no, fine warm ni. 
20 | 60 77 69 | 68 79 71 | rainy morn, showery sunny no, rainy ni. 
21 | 62 77 72 | 73 80 78 | fine clear morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
22 | 65 74 74 | 76 83 80 | cloudy morn, close warm noon, fine ni. 
23 | 65 78 73 | 76 77 79 | fine morn, fine sunny noon, fine night. 
24 | 64 74 64 | 72 81 74 | drizzly morn, close warm no, cloudy ni. 
25 | 59 69 63 | 71 75 73 | frost snow m, showery no, showery ni. 
26 63 79 70 | 73 93 78 | fine morn, fine sunny noon, fine night. 
27 +| 66 75 69 | 72 76 75 | fine morn, fine sunny noon, fine night. 
28 | 62 70 66 | 72 74 73 | cloudy morn, cloudy noon, cleudy ni. 
29 | 68 74 74 | 74 76 81 | fine morn, fine sunny noon, fine night. 
30 | 62 74 70 | 72 75 75 | fine morn, fine sunny noon, fine night. 
31 | 62 66 66 | 70 72 72 | cloudy morn, cloudy noon, cloudy ni. 
April 
1 | 61 71 66 | 76 76 71 | cloudy warm m, cloudy war no, fine ni. 
2 62 81 71 | 72 87 74 | fine morn, fine sunny noon, fine night. 
3 | 59 79 69 | 73 84 77 | cloudy morn, fine sunny no, fine night. 
4 | 65 75 71 | 65 81 79 | cloudy cold m, fine sunny no,fine night. 
5 61 84 74 | 71 97 79 | fine morn, very sunny noon, fine night. 
6 | 65 80 72 | 78 96 81 | fine warm morn, very fine noon, fine ni. 
7 65 76 68 | 71 78 74 | fine m, clear sunny no, fine warm night. 
8 62 62 62 | 67 72 72 | misty morn, rainy noon, rainy night. 
9 | 60 63 66 | 65 70 72 | drizzly morn, cloudy noon, cloudy ni. 
10 | 61 72 65 | 69 79 72 | cloudy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
11 | 59 75 65 | 69 85 75 | fine morn, fine sunny noon, fine night. 
12 | 61 66 67 | 69 72 78 | cloudy morn, cloudy noon, cloudy ni. 
13 | 59 68 62 | 72 84 75 | cloudy morn,sunny noon, cloudy night. 
14 | 61 72 66 | 72 78 77 | cloudy morn, cloudy noon, cloudy ni. 
15 | 65 74 69 | 82 87 84 | fine morn, very sunny no, fine warm ni. 
16 | 65 71 73 | 72 78 73 | cloudy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
17 | 62 70 69 | 71 77 77 | cloudy morn, fine noon, fine night. 
18 | 58 76 68 | 68 81 75 | fine clear m, fine sunnyno, fine warm ni. 
19 | 59 67 64 | 68 75 71 | fine morn, cloudy noon, rainy night. 
20 | 61 73 67 | 73 82 73 | rainy m, warm showery no, cloudy ni. 
21 | 59 67 67 | 67 76 75 | rainy morn, rainy noon, fine night. 
22 | 65 73 68 | 75 77 76 | rainy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
23 | 62 73 69 | 70 81 74 | cloudy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
24 | 65 68 65 | 70 75 75 | fine morn, cloudy noon, rainy night. 
25 63 65 65 | 73 76 77 | fine morn, fine noon, fine night. 
26 | 62 70 65 | 72 75 72 | rainy morn, rainy noon, cloudy night. 
27 | 63 70 63 | 69 73 69 | cloudy morn, cloudy noon, cloudy ni. 
28 | 58 77 68 | 63 79 71 | cloudy m, fine sunny no, fine clear ni. 
29 | 60 76 67 | 70 85 75 | slight frosty morn, cloudy no, fine ni. 
39 | 60 74 70 | 69 78 72 


cloudy morn, showery noon, rainy ni. 


On cultivating the Pine-apple. 313 


Succession. Fruiting. Weather. 
- Ni. mo. no. ni. 

64 79 68 | 70 86 73 | fine morn, fine sunny no, fine clear ni. 
60 65 63 | 70 71 71 | cloudy m, cold rainy no, cold rainy ni. 
73 | 65 78 75 | rainy morn, cloudy noon, rainy night. 
70 78 72 | 70 80 74 | fine clear m, sunny noon, cloudy night. 
65 70 71 | 72 80 78 | fine morn, fine noon, fine night. 

60 69 70 | 70 79 80 | fine morn, showery noon, fine night. 
65 80 79 | 70 90 83 | fine clear m, clear sunny no, fine night. 
68 70 74 | 74 84 74 | fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 

66 80 70 | 70 86 74 | fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 

10 63 75 68 | 70 80 79 | fine morn, fine noon, fine night. 

Il 63 79 70 | 73 94 76 | fine morn, clear sunny noon, fine night. 
12 64 76 67 | 73 70 73 | finem, cloudy noon, warm showery ni. 
13 | 65 74 67 | 75 78 73 | fine morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 

14 | 65 74 71 | 70 76 70 | fine morn, dull warm noon, fine night. 
15 | 60 72 72 | 70 82 75 | fine morn, clear sunny noon, fine night. 
16 | 62 69 70 | 70 74 74 | fine m, showery noon, showery night. 
17 | 67 76 69 | 74 80 79 | cloudy morn, showery noon, fine night. 
18 | 65 69 72 | 69 82 79 | fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 

19 | 65 76 71 | 75 95 75 | fine m, clear sunny noon, fine night. 
20 | 68 75 71 | 76 89 75 | fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 

21 | 64 79 76 | 75 92 80 | fine m, clear sunny noon, fine night. 
22 | 68 71 71 | 75 77 75 | fine morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
23. | 69 69 71 | 75 74 78 | fine morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
24 | 63 74 75 | 71 89 79 | fine m, clear sunny noon, fine night. 
25 | 64 77 64 | 66 86 81 | fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 

26 | 65 70 71 | 70 88 77 | cloudy m, fine sunny no, fine clear ni. 
27 | 65 70 71 | 70 74 75 | cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
28 | 66 79 73 | 72 90 79 | fine morn, sunny noon, cloudy night. 
29 65 73 72 | 67 77 73 | cloudy m, cloudy noon, showery night. 
30 | 65 79 72 | 70 99 78 | slight frosty m, sunny noon, rainy night. 
31 | 61 72 68 | 70 83 70 | finemorn, sunny noon, showery night. 


onreneonuns 
fon) 
— 
a 
PS} 


1 | 68 81 72 | 74 83 76 | fine morn, sunny noon, showery night. 
2 | 71 68 74 | 71 72 70 | fine morn, cloudy noon, rainy night. 
3 | 64 77 70 | 68 10276 | cloudy morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
4 | 66 82 74 | 7411075 | fine m, extra-sunny noon, fine night. 
5 | 66 75 71 | 67 84 70 | rainy morn, sunny noon, cloudy night. 
6 | 68 70 70 | 67 73 69 | cloudy m, showery no, showery night. 
7 | 64 68 65 | 62 69 64 | drizzly cold morn, drizzly no, rainy ni. 
8 | 64 68 66 | 62 69 69 | rainy morn, rainy noon, cloudy night. 
9 | 64 74 69 | 65 85 69 | fine morn, showery noon, rainy night. 
10 | 65 77 70 | 64 89 69 | fine morn, cloudy noon, rainy night. 
1l | 65 72 76 | 64 78 75 | cloudy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
12 | 65 67 65 | 63 67 63 | cold morn, cold rainy noon, cold night. 
13. | 66 72 72 | 64 74 69 | rainy morn, cloudy noon, rainy night. 
14 | 67 79 79 | 65 82 73 | misty m, cloudy noon, showery night. 
15 | 69 76 74 | 70 86 73 | fine m, warm showery no, warm night. 
16 | 65 75 70 | 64 81 70 | cloudy morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
17 | 68 83 64 | 64 99 76 | fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
18 | 63 76 76 | 64 81 79 | cloudy m, cloudy noon, showery night. 
19 | 67 80 77 | 67 89 77 | fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
20 | 69 77 75 | 71 88 81 | fine morn, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
21 | 68 75 77 | 72 85 81 | finemorn, showery noon, fine night. 
22 | 66 70 70 | 68 91 71 | fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
23 | 64 70 68 | 64 72 69 | fine morn, fine noon, cloudy night. 


314 On cultivating the Pine-apple. 
Succession. Fruiting. Weather: 
June | mo. no. ni. | mo. no. ni. 
24 | 65 78 69 | 66 88 67 | cloudy m, sunny noon, showery night. 
25 | 65 72 66 | 67 75 68 | windy m, windy noon, showery night. 
26 69 74 72 | 66 83 74 | fine morn, fine noon, fine night. 
27 | 66 74 72 | 70 83 74 | fine morn, fine noon, fine night. 
28 | 67 84 74 | 6210477 | fine morn, extra-hot noon, fine night. 
29 67 85 74 | 67 10477 | fine morn, very sunny noon, fine night. 
30 | 66 76 76 | 67 81 74 | fine morn, fine noon, fine night. 
Jul 
: 68 81 73 | 68 82 79 | fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
2 | 68 76 76 | 70 80 74 | fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
3 | 66 71 71 | 70 80 74 | fine morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
4 | 69 75 70 | 70 89 71 | fine morn, fine noon, fine night. 
5 | 65 77 71 | 67 82 77 | cloudy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
-6 | 66 71 70 | 71 72 70 | fine morn, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
7 | 65 65 64 | 68 68 64 | cloudy m, drizzly noon, rainy night. 
8 | 64 70 67 | 64 86 73 | rainy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
9 | 64 69 71 | 69 74 77 | cloudy m, showery noon, cloudy night. 
10 | 66 75 69 | 65 84 69 | cloudy morn, fine noon, fine night. 
11 | 66 75 72 | 65 92 78 | cloudy m, sunny noon, showery night. 
12 | 68 86 72 | 6710877 | fine morn, extra-sunny noon, fine night. 
13 | 68 76 70 | 71 99 82 | fine morn, extra-hot noon, fine night. 
14. | 66 69 68 | 66 75 71 | rainy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
15 | 66 69 69 | 66 74 75 | fine morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
16 | 65 69 65 | 67 75 67 | fine morn, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
17 65 75 68 | 68 81 68 | cloudy morn, fine noon, cloudy night. 
18 | 66 67 65 | 66 76 68 | cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
19 | 56 65 65 | 67 78 70 | cold morn, fine noon, fine night. 
20 | 60 75 63 | 60 79 65 | cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
21 56 75 61 | 67 73 63 | fine morn, fine noon, cold night. 
22 | 66 76 69 | 73 92 64 | cloudy m, fine sunny no, showery ni. 
23 | 65 68 68 | 65 72 73 | fine morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
24 | 65 69 68 | 66 76 69 | fine morn, showery noon, fine night. 
25 64 82 70 | 68 11074 | fine m, extra-sunny noon, fine night. 
26 | 65 78 72 | 67 10076 | cloudy m, fine sunny noon, cloudy ni. 
27 | 67 74 73 | 68 84 81 | cloudy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
28 | 68 84 74 | 6810581 | cloudy m, hot sunny noon, fine night. 
29 68 79 76 | 69 10486 | fine morn, hot sunny noon, fine night. 
30 68 75 72 | 69 88 73 | cloudy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
3 68 80 72 | 68 99 74 | misty m, fine sunny noon, fine night. 
Aug. 

L 66 72 70 | 68 78 73 | cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 

2 | 64 68 66 | 64 70 66 | rainy morn, rainy noon, rainy night. 

3 | 64 67 68 | 63 68 67 | rainy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 

A, 66 73 72 | 66 86 77 | cloudy m, gleams of sun at no, fine ni. 

5 | 66 81 75 | 6710085 | rainy morn, sunny noon, fine night. 

6 | 66 85 73 | 6711077 | fine m, hot sunny noon, rainy night. 

7 | 69.76 74 | 71 93 80 | cloudy morn, fine noon, fine night. 

8 | 69 80 76 | 7110081 | fine morn, hot sunny noon, fine night. 

9 | 68 85 78 | 69 11080 | fineclearm, extra-sunny no, fine warm ni. 
10 | 72 81 76 | 74 97 81 | fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
11 68 82 74 | 69 92 81 | fine morn, sunny noon, fine night- 
12 | 68 78 75 | 69 93 81 | finemorn, sunny noon, showery night. 
13 | 68 75 71 | 68 92 77 | cloudy morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
14. | 64 79 73 | 64 92 77 | fine cold morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
15. |.66.75 75 | 66 89 77 | fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 


Succession. 


mo. 


69 
69 
67 


no. 
17 
717 
82 
74 
76 
75 
75 
75 
71 
68 
70 
78 
75 
75 
74 
71 


. ni. 


72 


On cultivating the Pine-apple. 


Fruiting. 


mo. no. 


70 87 
69 90 


ni. 
76 
75 


66 102 76 


66 81 
65 99 
65 80 
65 85 
65 85 
64 85 
65 78 
65 74 
65 91 


72 
76 


Weather. 


fine morn, showery noon, cloudy night. 
fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
rainy morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
rainy m, cloudy noon, showery night. 
fine morn, sunny noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy m, showery noon, showery ni. 
cloudy m, showery noon, showery ni. 
fine morn, fine noon, fine night. 
cloudy m, showery noon, rainy night. 
fine m, showery noon, showery night. 
rainy m, warm showery no, rainy night, 
rainy morn, rainy noon, rainy night. 
rainy m, showery noon, cloudy night. 
rainy morn, showery noon, fine night. 
showery morn, fine noon, cloudy night. 


rainy m, showery noon, cloudy night. 
fine morn, hot sunny noon, fine night. 
fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
misty m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy m, showery noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy m, sunny noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
cloudy morn, fine noon, fine night. 
cloudy morn, fine noon, fine night. 
cloudy morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
misty morn, drizzly noon, drizzly night. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy morn, fine noon, fine night. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
fine morn, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
fine morn, sunny noon, cloudy night. 
misty m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy morn, sunny noon, rainy night. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
fine mern, sunny noon, fine night. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, rainy night. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy m, skowery noon, fine night. 
fine morn, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
rainy morn, rainy noon, rainy night. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, rainy night., 
rainy m, cloudy neon, cloudy night. 
misty morm, sunny noon, fine night. 


rainy morn, fine noon, fine night. 
rainy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, rainy night. 
cloudy m, showery noon, cloudy night. 
fine morn, fine noon, fine night. 

fine sunny m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
rainy morn, rainy noon, rainy night. 


315 


On cultivating the Pine-apple. 


316 

Succession. Fruiting. 
Oct. | mo. no. ni. | mo. no. ni 
8 68 85 71 | 70 97 74 
9 68 85 71 | 72 84 73 
10 70 80 74 | 71 92 78 
1] 64 71 68 | 65 75 71 
12 65 76 70 | 69 82 76 
13 66 78 70 | 70 86 73 
14 66 69 71 | 70 73 75 
15 68 81 73 | 70 86 76 
16 69 78 71 | 70 82 76 
17 65 84 71 | 71 94 75 
18 66 74 71 | 71 78 74 
19 69 76 74 | 68 79 76 
20 70 77 72 | 73 82 74 
21 67 70 69 | 72 79 74 
22 65 70 65 | 69 85 72 
23 60 65 65 | 63 68 68 
24: 60 65 65 | 64 70 67 
25 61 74 68 | 60 75 75 
26 63 74 67 | 67 73 70 
27 61 77 75 | 63 82 72 
28 59 68 67 | 65 79 69 
29 60 71 65 | 72 82 72 
30 60 77 65 | 68 83 70 
31 65 66 63 | 65 78 68 

Nov. 
1 65 73 68 | 70 80 70 
2 60 60 60 | 65 68 68 
3 60 69 61 | 65 83 67 
4 60 68 60 | 68 82 70 
5 54 60 58 | 62 74 72 
6 53 66 58 | 65 73 72 
7 53 75 58 | 63 85 70 
8 52 68 57 | 69 78 68 
9 55 56 55.| 71 71 70 
10 52 53 53 | 61 68 68 
11 52 53 54 | 68 8] 70 
12 53 66 53 | 68 75 70 
13 50 50 50 | 66 66 67 
14 54 59 55 | 68 73 69 
15 55 59 57 | 65 72 70 
16 50 58 55 | 66 72 70 
17 50 59 55 | 68 72 65 
18 50 54 53 | 68 69 69 
19 52 54 54 | 65 68 73 
20 54 55 55 | 68 68 75 
21 55 60 59 | 75 73 72 
22 57 67 60 | 69 77 75 
23 57 61 58 | 67 73 71 
24 57 62 58 | 70 72 71 
25 57 63 60 | 69 76 73 
26 57 65 59 | 68 74 74 
27 55 67 55 | 71 Th 68 
28 53 68 58 | 65 72 66 
29 54 66 58 | 60 74 64 
30 55 66 60 | 64 75 72 


Weather. 


fine m, windy sunny noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, rainy night. 
cloudy m, sunny noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, rainy night. 
cloudy morn, fine noon, fine night. 
cloudy morn, fine noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, showery night. 
cloudy morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
fine morn, gleamy noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy m, gleamy noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
misty morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
fine morn, cold noon, cold night. 
cloudy morn, rainy noon, rainy night. 
cloudy morn, rainy noon, rainy night. 
cloudy morn, rainy noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
cloudy m, sunny no, thundering night. 
fine morn, gleamy. noon, fine night. 
cloudy morn, gleamy noon, fine night. 
fine m, showery noon, showery night. 
cloudy morn, cloudy noon, rainy night. 


fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
rainy morn, rainy noon, fine night. 
fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
showery m, showery no, snowy night. 
frosty m, showery no, showery night. 
fine morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
frosty m, sunny no, strong frosty night. 
keen frosty m, cloudy noon, rainy night. 
cloudy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
keen frosty m, rainy noon, rainy night. 
fine morn, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
frosty morn, sunny noon, frosty night. 
keen frost m, frost no, misty thawing ni. 
rainy morn, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
fine morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
frosty morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
frosty morn, frosty noon, frosty night. 
misty cold m, misty cold no, cloudy ni. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
misty morn, misty noon, cloudy night. 
warm cloudy m, cloudy no, cloudy ni. 
cloudy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
misty m, drizzly noon, cloudy night. 
rainy morn, cloudy noon, fine night. 
fine morn, sunny noon, fine night. 
cloudy morn, rainy noon, rainy night. 
rainy m, showery noon, cloudy night. 
showery m, windy noon, rainy night. 
showery morn, sunny noon, fine night. 


Fertility induced by Spur-pruning. 317 


Succession. Fruiting. Weather 


. no, . mo. no. ni. 

66 70 68 69 | rainy morn, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
69 70 76 65 | showery m, cloudy noon, rainy night. 
66 60 73 73 | rainy m, cloudy noon, showery night. 
66 64 74 68 | fine morn, fine noon, fine night. 

64 64 | 74 76 77 | frosty m, cloudy noon, showery night. 
68 73 74 69 | fine morn, showery noon, fine night. 
64 61 74 75 | keen frosty m, fine noon, cloudy night. 
72 73 84 75 | cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
66 82 72 | cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
75 71 | cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
76 67 | fine morn, fine noon, cloudy night. 

75 70 | cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
78 65 | cloudy morn, fine noon, fine night. 

68 65 | cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
70 70 | cloudy morn, fine noon, fine night. 
75 67 | keen frosty m, fine but frosty no, fine ni. 
67 70 | rainy morn, rainy noon, cloudy night. 
73 69 | cloudy morn, fine noon, fine night. 

74 69 | keen frosty m, showery no, cloudy ni. 
70 69 | keen frosty m, fine noon, frosty night. 
68 66 | rainy morn, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
71 cloudy m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
71 rainy morn, rainy noon, fine night. 

65 € frosty m, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
71 rainy morn, cloudy noon, cloudy night. 
73 rainy morn, fine noon, showery night. 
88 fine morn, fine noon, fine night. 

64 frosty morn, frosty noon, frosty night. 
64 rainy morn, rainy noon, rainy night. 
76 fine morn, fine noon, fine night. 

69 snowy morn, fine noon, cloudy night. 


ODIMHeO WWE? 


Art. XIII. Fertality induced by Spur-pruning. By G. I. T. 
Sir, 

On reperusing Mr. Main’s truly kind and flattering re- 
view of my work, The Domestic Gardener's Manual, in 
Vol. VII. p. 57. of your Magazine, I perceive a remark 
which I regret that I did not notice in my late reply to the 
queries of that gentleman. It did not, however, then occur 
to me to do so, and I therefore seize the first convenient 
opportunity of addressing you; for justice to myself, to the 
reader of my book, and to the cause of science, requires that 
I should leave nothing obscure or mystified, which it is in my 
power to render clear and intelligible. In my abbreviated 
extracts from Mr. Charles Harrison’s excellent directions for 
the spur-pruning of the plum tree (p. 207. par. 228.), the 
reader will perceive that, at the period of the swmmer-prun- 


318 Fertility induced by Spur-pruning. 


ing of the second year (supposed to be 1830), our author 
says, “the buds upon that part of each branch which was pro- 
duced last year will be formed either into fruitful ones, or 
push into shoots. If shoots, they will require to be cut down 
to two inches in length, when they have attained a little 
woodiness, &c. &c. The shortening of such shoots will 
generally cause them to form a fruitful bud, or more, near to 
their origin.” (No. 229.) “* Let us, ” I continue, ‘* examine 
the philosophy of the facts thus plainly stated. By curtailing 
the shoots, the regular course of the ascending currents is 
interrupted, and the direction changed. ‘The few leaves which 
remain upon the lower part of each shortened shoot now 
become the sole intermedia through which the maturing 
influences of light and air are exerted. The buds situated 
at their basis are excited, and swell, and (now comes the 
passage referred to by Mr. Main) the electrical currents 
setting in, to and through the pointed terminations of those 
buds, and of their leafy appendages, stimulate the former, and 
bring them into a fruit-bearing condition. ‘The interruption 
of the principle of growth, by whatever means effected, is 
always productive of fertility; hence, though we may not be 
able to trace the operation of causes in all its minutiae, we may 
I think, safely ascribe the effect thus produced to the energy 
of the great natural agents, exerted laterally through a greatly 
diminished number of the vegetable vital organs.” 

Mr. Main compliments’ me upon what he is pleased to 
designate “the excellent distinction between the principle of 
growth and that of fructification ;” but still he considers that 
I have been “ rather obscure” in my endeavours “ to account 
for the barrenness of a free-growing tree, and the fruitfulness 
of a stinted one,” and, moreover, that 1 have aimed at 
“ascribing to electricity the power of forming the members, 
instead of considering it as an exciter, only, of vegetable life.” 

It is fortunate for me that I am enabled to refer the reader, 
at once, to my electrical hypothesis ; for it occupies a con- 
spicuous place in your last published Number. (p. 179.) He 
therein will perceive that I consider the electricity of nature 
to be derived solely from the sun; and that, in fact, the solar 
light itself is the electrising medium. I shall not dwell now 
upon particulars; nor shall I adduce facts in order to de- 
monstrate the wonderful influence of the solar ray upon the 
foliage of plants; these must be reserved for a future com- 
munication: but I think it cannot fail to strike any attentive 
reader or comparer of the above obscure passage, with my 
article on electricity, that I could not for one moment intend 
to convey an idea of the creative power of the ethereal solar 


Preparations for watering Peach Trees, 5c. 319 


fluid. I call it an exciter, a stimulant, and nothing more; 
though it would not, I conceive, be difficult to place Mr. 
Main, or any other reader, in the dilemma of either being 
forced to admit that the exciting agents must be the vital 
principle of the plant itself; or, that that plant is, bond fide, 
an organised being, endowed with sensitive life to a greater or 
less extent. ‘This is a question which I leave to the specu- 
lations and enquiries of the philosophical mind, only venturing 
to hope that some—many—of your readers may be in- 
duced to reflect seriously, and to propose doubts or queries 
which may serve as stimuli to others whose powers of mind 
may require to be roused into activity. By thus whetting and 
sharpening the edge of the mental faculty, sparks of the light 
of truth may perhaps be elicited, and errors detected. 

To return to the point under consideration, and thus con- 
clude this hurried notice: I wish it to be clearly understood, 
that I conceived when I wrote the passage, and now believe, 
that when a young lateral shoot, say from the horizontally 
trained branch of an espalier pear or apple tree, is cut back, 
about the end of the month of June, to two eyes or buds, or 
the embryoes of either, those electrical or ethereal currents 
which had previously acted upon the terminal and higher buds, 
stimulating the advancing or growing principle, have now no 
other media to act upon than the few remaining buds or 
embryoes (preorganised, and existing — not created, though 
heretofore dormant), situated at the base of the shoot. These 
they excite, perhaps, into growth and extension; but very 
frequently into the developement of fruitful buds. How this 
effect is produced may be secret to human research: at all 
events, the enquiry is closely connected with that of the source, 
origin, and progress of buds; and this is a branch of vegetable 
science which, I trust, will be shortly investigated by the 
physiologists of the present day. I hope, Sir, that I have 
at least cleared my meaning in respect to the passage al- 
luded to, although I may nee failed to elucidate the natural 
agency to which it referred. 

April 22. 1832. G. I. T. 


Art. XIV. A Proposal to water Peach and Nectarine Trees with 
Nitre, a Preparation from Blood, &c. By Josrru Haywarp, 
Esq. 

Sir, 
Iv is well known, that, although trees of the peach, apricot, 
plum, apple, &c., are well fur nished with blossom buds, the 


320 Preparations for watering Peach Trees, &c. 


blossoms often fail in their impregnation, and fall off; and, 
when they are impregnated and set, they fall off at the 
stoning; frequently, although they survive the stoning, they 
become prematurely ripe and fall off, and very few, if any, of 
the fruit attain maturity; while those which do, become 
vapid and without flavour. These failures I have proved to 
be the effect of unwholesome food; and, having, found a 
remedy in a simple preparation, I beg the favour of such of 
your readers as have an opportunity, to make a trial of it, 
and to state the result. Having selected a tree that is in 
good condition, and well furnished with blossom buds, just 
as the blossoms are beginning to expand, take a potato fork, 
and with it make holes all over the surface of the space oc- 
cupied by the roots (which extend as far from the stem as 
the branches), at about 18 inches apart, by forcing in the fork 
to the full depth of its tines, and giving it a gentle heave, by 
pressing on the end of the handle; then, having dissolved 
some nitre in water (in the proportion of one ounce to three 
gallons of water), fill the holes with the solution. No manure 
must be given; but if, after the stoning of the fruit, the tree 
should appear to be unequal to sustaining its crop of fruit, 
the following preparation may be given, in the same manner 
as the nitre:— To one gallon of blood add one gallon of 
water, and one ounce of potash; stir the mixture well, and 
let it stand for a week or ten days; then pour off the solution 
from the clot, and, mixing one gallon of this liquid with four 
gallons of water, give it to the trees as above. The remain- 
ing clot may be dissolved by adding to it one quart of 
slacked lime and one gallon of water to one gallon of clot ; 
but this solution must not be given to fruit trees, as it will 
produce the effect which the nitre is intended to remedy. It 
will, however, prove a good manure for the cabbage tribe, 
asparagus, celery, &c. This discovery, which I consider to 
be of great value, I made some years since; and, as it is not 
merely accidental, but the result of a regular course of ex- 
periments, made with a view of ascertaining the nature and 
effects of the food of plants, and is founded on physiological 
and chemical principles, it will, I have no doubt, lead to the 
establishment of a much more perfect system of manuring 
than is at present practised. 
I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

Weymouth, March 18. 1832. JosepH Haywarp. 


Cropping Borders in which Fruit Trees grow. 321° 


ArT. XV. On the evil Effects of cropping the Borders in which 
Fruit Trees grow. By R. T. 
Sir, 

Havine for some years been an advocate for not cropping 
the borders of fruit trees, I have noticed, with pleasure, that 
you have several times called the attention of your readers to 
the subject. I beg leave, therefore, on the present occasion, 
- to make a few observations for the consideration of those 
who are of a different opinion; as I think that, before long, 
it is very likely that, instead of having a border of 10 or 12 ft. 
wide close to the wall to be constantly dug and cropped, and 
a gravel walk 4 or 5ft. wide beyond it, we shall see a wide 
gravel walk close to the wall, over a previously prepared 
border; for I am persuaded it is owing more to the digging 
and manuring the border, than to any other circumstances, 
that there are so many failures of fruit trees. I have seen 
the above method (of gravelling the borders to walk upon) 
practised on a small scale, and I am not aware of a single 
failure. I have often noticed that, in the formation of borders 
to vineries, or green-houses where vines were to be planted, 
after much expense and labour bestowed, it has ended in 
disappointment; the cause of which I consider to be the plant- 
ing of the borders with vegetables, if in the kitchen-garden, 
and with flowers, if in the flower-garden. Perhaps it may 
not be amiss to mention here, that many persons who are 
very particular about pruning their vines in the autumn, to 
prevent their bleeding, will nevertheless delay digging the 
borders till February or March, when all the roots within 
the reach of the spade are sure to be cut and made to bleed, 
without being observed. In many cases where prepared 
borders have failed to produce fruitful vines or other trees, 
it is very often to be seen that a tree or vine, planted against 
a building, merely for the sake of hiding it, seldom fails to 
produce a crop of fruit, although it has nothing below but 
the natural soil, and this covered over with gravel, or other 
materials, to form a walk. I could mention several instances 
of this kind, some of which are within a few yards of where 
I am writing, and many others in the neighbourhood ; and I 
have no doubt that many of your readers will be able to see 
the same, after it has thus been pointed out to them. One 
of the instances which have come under my observation is 
within a short distance of my cottage. It is an extensive 
range of glass, used chiefly for stove and green-house plants, 
with a vine trained up each rafter, not one of which is worth 
the trouble bestowed on it annually in tying, &c. ‘The roots 

Vou. IX.— No. 44. vi 


322 Earthing up of growing Crops of Potatoes. 


of these all running directly into the borders and clumps of a 
flower-garden, it is not thought that the fault can be in the 
soil, as it is so well cultivated for the plants in it, but this 
I consider to be the only cause of their failing; as within a 
few yards of these is a building of considerable height and 
length, of the same aspect as the others, having vines trained 
all over it, which are planted (as far as I can learn) in 
nothing but the natural soil, having a wide gravel walk over 
their roots, beyond which they have nothing else but a lawn. 
They have, therefore, in all probability never been disturbed 
since they were planted. ‘These I have known for several 
years, but I do not recollect ever having heard of their failing 
to produce good crops. Young vines, also, which have been 
planted amongst them, have begun to bear. Instances of 
this kind are so numerous, in front of dwelling-houses and 
other buildings, that it is unnecessary for me to say any more 
on the subject; I shall therefore conclude with hoping that 
those who have hitherto attributed it to the soil will reflect 
whether in some measure it may not be owing to the cause I 
have mentioned. Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 
Feb. 26. 1833. jee or 


Art. XVI. On the Uselessness of earthing up growing Crops of 
Potatoes. By JosrepH Haywarp, Esq., Author of “The Science 
of Horticulture,” &c. 

Sing) 

T wouxp offer a few hints that may aid the endeavours of 
those who advocate the benefiting of the condition of the poor: 
they may contribute to increase the objection which some have 
urged against exhausting the powers of labour. Mr. Knight’s 
observations regarding the potato are valuable ; but there is one 
laborious operation commonly resorted to in cultivating this 
vegetable, which, I think, has not been sufficiently considered ; 
and which, Iam convinced by more than ten years’ experience, 
is superfluous. Observing that a farmer, in managing a field 
of potatoes alongside one of mine, did not earth them up, but 
simply flat-hoed the surface of the soil to clear away the weeds, 
while I had mine earthed up with great care, I determined 
on noticing the difference on taking up the crop; and, to my 
astonishment, he had 14 tons per acre, while I had not more 
than half the quantity, and his potatoes were of a more mar- - 
ketable quality than mine; being generally of a good size, while 
mine were large and small. ‘The result induced me to question 
the farmer ; and he told me it was a practice he had followed 


Description of a Mode of cultivating Onions. 323 


for many years, as he thought the earthing up was worse than 
labour thrown away ; that, a year or two before, he had obtained 
19 tons per acre by the same management. ‘This statement 
put me upon considering the principles upon which such a 
result was founded ; and it appeared to me that, by drawing up 
the earth over the potato, in sloping ridges, it was deprived of 
its due supply of moisture by the rains; for, when they fell, 
the water was cast into the ditches. Further, in regard to the 
idea that, by thus earthing up, the number of tubers is in- 
creased : the effect is quite the reverse; for experience proves 
that a potato placed an inch only under the surface of the 
earth will produce a greater number of tubers than one planted 
at the depth of a foot. From reasoning thus, I determined to 
adopt the practice: however, such is the force of. prejudice, 
that I have been able to make but few proselytes. A year or 
two since, I prevailed on a clergyman to try the practice ona 
strip of half an acre, running through a large field, treated in 
the common manner ; and he told me that, on taking up the 
crop, he did not find much difference in the gross quantity; 
but that those which had not been earthed up were, more 
generally, of a good size; not so many large and small as the 
other part of the field. I have no doubt, if potatoes are 
planted shallow, and placed wide enough apart to admit of 
the stems being laid down after the young potatoes are formed, 
and to have the earth between them thrown over 5in. or Gin. 
thick, so as to form a flat surface, that it would increase the 
crop. But this is a very different operation from that I object to. 
I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Riadipole, Feb. 7. 1833. JosepH Haywarp. 


Art. XVII. A Description of a Mode of cultivating Onions. 
- By Mr. Wititiam Wuippon. 
Sir, 

Your correspondent, John Mitchell, jun., treats, in p. 75., 
on the culture of the onion. I write not to dissuade him 
from following the plans which his own observation has 
suggested to him, but to state my own experience on this 
subject, as it differs widely from his, In March, 1830, I 
lived as gardener to J. B. Praed, Esq., of ‘Tyringham, Bucks ; 
and, having occasion to make an asparagus bed, I resolved 
upon sowing onions, of the Deptford sort, in drills between 
the rows. ‘The ground was not prepared in the way usual 
for asparagus, but turned over to the depth of one spade 


‘only. ‘The soil being of a tenacious and cohesive quality, I 
y 2 


324 Description of a Mode of cultivating Onions. 


used a quantity of coal-ashes and rotten dung; and, all being 
in readiness for the asparagus, | proceeded to plant it in rows 
eighteen inches asunder, and the onions in drills between 
these rows. I finished each row as I proceeded, which 
caused a great deal of trampling, and the ground was re- 
markably hard after the whole was completed. When the 
crops began to grow, I thought of hoeing, thinning, &c.; but, 
being a native of Northampton, where some of the best 
onions in the kingdom are grown, I recollected seeing, at 
different times, onions growing in the hard walk, and these 
the best sample of a whole acre. I accordingly resolved to 
let my crop take its chance. Weeding and thinning were 
performed by the hand, which greatly increased the solidity 
of the soil. My crop was pulled up without attention being 
paid to any particular time or form: the onions composing 
it were sound and good, while the crops of my neighbours 
were suffering from what are termed mouldy-nosed onions. I 
had several bushels from a small piece of ground, and was 
obliged to exchange with my neighbours for picklers. I 
presented Mr. Atkins, nurseryman, of Northampton, with 
twelve, which weighed eleven pounds. I planted twenty- 
four of them the succeeding spring, for seed, which weighed 
nearly twenty-two pounds, and were shown to several friends 
before they were planted, who can testify the fact. I cannot 
say what quantity of seeds they produced, as I left my situ- 
ation at that time. 

A great deal has been said about growing large onions; 
but, according to my humble opinion, large onions are not 
the most desirable. From my experience (which, I confess, 
is not a lengthened one, as I am but a young gardener), an 
onion from one to two inches’ diameter is the most profitable, 
of the readiest sale, and the best for gardeners and gentle- 
men. When a large onion goes into a gentleman’s kitchen, 
it is cut, and a part only is used; the remainder loses its 
quality, and ultimately bears company with the peelings to 
the dung heap. I advise John Mitchell, if he wishes for 
large onions, to try as I have suggested above. His soil 
will suit every purpose. He will find an advantage in time; 
run no risk in displacing the roots, which is apt to check 
vegetation ; and he will not be so likely to get disease in the 
crops, as the trampling forms gutters in which he can, if dry 
weather occur, put water, and supply the roots more gra- 
dually with moisture; or, if a continuance of rain should 
happen, these gutters will carry off the superfluous water. 

Lam, Sir, yours, &c. 
Wm. Wuuippon, Gardener. 
Chicheley Hall, Bucks, Feb. 28. 1833. 


Notes on Mildew. 325 


Art. XVIII. Notes on Mildew, from a Lecture on that Subject by 
Professor Lindley, delivered at the Horticultural Society’s Meeting 
Room, on April 24. By J. W. L. 


Dr. Linpiry began: by stating that he did not intend, on 
the present occasion, to give a regular series of lectures, as 
that plan required his hearers to attend the whole course, 
which very few individuals had leisure to do. He therefore 
now proposed to take a different subject for every lecture, 
and to make each complete in itself. His first subject was 
mildew. 

Every horticulturist has heard of mildew ; and, though it is 
often confounded with blight, honey-dew, &c., the destruc- 
tive fungi which constitute the real mildew, and the ravages 
they occasion, are unfortunately but too familiar to every one 
accustomed to either a garden or a field. Notwithstanding 
this, even the most eminent horticulturists know comparatively 
little either of the nature of this pest, or of its cure. One 
most important error exists respecting it, and this is, the 
belief, common among gardeners and agriculturists, that one 
kind of mildew will infect several kinds of plants: but this 
can never be the case; each tribe of plants has a mildew 
peculiar to itself, which cannot, under any circumstances, 
affect plants of a different kind. 

Mildew generally appears on the leaves or stems of plants 
in the form of red, white, or black spots, as a number of 
minute projections, as a frosty incrustation, or as a brownish 
powder ; in every. case spreading, more or less rapidly, ac- 
cording to its kind, and in its progress withering the leaves, 
destroying the fruit, and, finally, killmg the plant. The 
popular. reasons assigned for this pest are various: it has 
been ascribed to insects, fog, and even, in one agricultural 
report, to the inflammation of the oxygen gas in the air 
towards the end of summer, which scorched the leaves. 
These opinions have, however, been all proved to be 
erroneous. Mildew is nothing more than different kinds of 
fungi, or parasites, attacking different kinds of plants, and 
varying in appearance and species according to the nature of 
the plants which they attack. - It is the greatest enemy to the 
agriculturist, but the gardener also suffers from it severely. 

The fungi, commonly called mildew, are divided into three 
classes: — 1. Those which grow, or rather lie, on the surface 
of leaves, and which perhaps do not derive any nutriment 
from the plant; 2. Those which are formed in the interior of 
the stem or leaf, and protrude themselves from it when ripe ; 

Y 3 


326 Notes on Mildew, from 


and, 3. Those which only attack the roots. All are ex- 
tremely simple in their organisation, and very minute in their 
forms; they seldom appear but in autumn, except in forcing- 
houses. 

The first class, or mildew composed of those fungi that 
live on the surface of leaves, injure a plant by preventing its 
respiration, but do not appear to draw any nourishment from 
it. One of the most common of the fungi which attack the 
common cabbage (jig. 85.) is Cylindrosporium concéntricum 

rev. These very destructive 

fungi have the appearance of 
~small white patches, or specks, 
of frosty incrustation, which, 
when magnified, are found to 
consist of a number of small 
cylinders, lying end to end, or 
across each other. These cylin- 
ders are all filled with seed, and 
burst when it is ripe, scattering it in every direction: wherever 
it falls upon the leaf it takes root, and thus the fungus spreads 
rapidly. “The superficial mildew which attacks rose trees 
and many other flowering shrubs is a kind of Urédo. ‘This 
name, derived from uro, Lat., te burn or 

86 scorch, is applied to those occasional dis- 

AWS) colorations of the surfaces of plants which 
A were formerly attributed to blights, or in- 
juries from the atmosphere, and which 
have the appearance of a brown powder. 
Uredo efftsa Grev. (jig. 86.) generally 
shows itself on the under sides of the leaves 
of the Rosaceze, and spreads rapidly. Uredo 
Rosee Pers. is another kind, which also 
attacks rose trees. ‘The fungus called Acro- 
sporium monilioides (fig. 87.) consists of a 
number of globules, attached to each other, 
which, when magnified, appear like the 
beads of a necklace, and. in many cases are 
found standing upright. When ripe, these globules fall, 
and, taking root, form fresh strings, or 
necklaces, like the first. Sometimes little 
tufts of these globules appear fixed to 
stalks; and, from some fancied resem- 
blance to the brushes used for sprinkling 
holy water, are called Aspergillus. (fig. 88.) 
The superficial mildew which infects the 
onion, and is very fatal to that plant, is 


a Lecture by Professor Lindley. 327 


called Botrytis. Its name signifies a 
bunch of grapes; and it is thus called 
from a fancied resemblance between 
that fruit and its clusters of little 
globular seeds and seed-vessels. The 
bean and pea have a superficial mil- 
dew, Uredo Fabee Pers. (jig. 89.), 
which spreads along their leaves, like white roots curiously 
interlaced. From these roots spring a 
number of branch-like shoots, each bear- 
ing a ball-like head, or brown berry, 
which, when ripe, bursts, and discharges 
seed. 

The second class of fungi, viz. those 
which spring from the interior of leaves 
and stems, are by far the most fatal. These 
fungi generally appear in a sort of bag 
or case, which is supposed: to be formed of the cuticle of 
the affected leaf. The oak is attacked by a species of 
fungus, /Kcidium, different varieties of which are found 
on many kinds of forest trees. ‘The Aécidium Pini (fg. 90.), 


found on pine trees, has, when magnified, the appearance 
of a number of nine-pins. When ripe, the cuticle which 
covers the fungus bursts, and emits a powder of a bright 
orange colour, which is the seed. A mildew of this kind, 
which infects corn, is highly injurious to the farmer. It 
is vulgarly called the pepper brand; and, when corn 
is attacked by it, it gradually consumes the substance of 
the grain, leaving in its stead only a dark powder, which 
has a very offensive smell. This fungus is found only on 
barley, and in this respect differs from the Uredo Ségetum, 
Y 4 


328 Notes on Mildew, from 


or smut, which is destructive not only of barley, but also of 
wheat and oats. The Urédo Ségetum, or smut, has been the 
subject of many interesting experiments by Mr. Bauer of Kew, 
whose discoveries will no doubt throw very considerable light 
upon the subject. It not only destroys the grain, which it 
converts into a kind of jelly, but it attacks the leaves and 
stems, always forming in the interior of the plant, and burst- 
ing forth when ripe. Corn is also at- 
tacked by a species of Puccinia, a very 
fatal kind of fungus, which always ap- 
pears divided into cells. Puccinia Gra- 
minis (fig. 95.), which attacks corn, 
forms in the interior of the stalk, and, 
when ripe, bursts forth in clusters, like 
bunches of grapes, of a dark brown 
colour. Puccinia Rose Grev. (fig. 96.) 
appears on the leaves of rose trees, in 
¥¢ uttle brown tufts, which, when opened 
~ and magnified, are found divided into 
extremely minute cells. A correspond- 
ent of this Magazine (Vol. IV. p. 320.) 
mentions that his celery was infected 
with ferruginous spots, occasioned, no 
doubt, by the Puccinia Heracléz Grev.; and another cor- 
respondent, Mr. Robert 
Errington (Vol. V. p. 107.), 
gives a detailed account of 
the manner in which his 
celery was attacked by the 
same disease, and of the 
means which he adopted 
for its cure. He describes 
his celery as having the appearance of having been scorched 
by fire. He says he dug up the infected plants, and buried 
them, but this only seemed to increase the evil; and he tried 
several other remedies, but without any permanent success. 

It is a vulgar error to suppose that a berberry tree (Bér- 
beris vulgaris Z.), if planted in a corn field, will, if infected 
with mildew, communicate the disease to the corn. This 
cannot be the case, as the mildew which attacks the ber- 
berry (ANcidium Berbéridis Pers., fiz. 92.) is quite different 
from any of the fungi which are found on corn. The ber- 
berry mildew, when magnified, is found to consist of a number 
of small orange cups with white films over each. When ripe, 
these lids burst, and the top of the cup assumes a ragged 
uneven appearance, like white fungi. Each cup has within 
it a number of little boxes containing seeds. The mildew 
on the pear tree is called Avcidium cancellatum (jg. 97.) [See 


a Lecture by Professor Lindley. 329 


97 


a, A leaf with the cidium becoming developed. b, A leaf bearing the Acidium fully 
developed. c, Portion of a leaf with the Acidium tarther developed. d, Section of a 
leaf, to show the fleshy thickening that accompanies the developement of the A%cidium. 
€e, Seeds of the Hcidium: a seed is called a sporidium; in the plural, sporidia. Sf, Plants 
of the Acidium : each is called a peridium ; in the plural, peridia. 

Vol. VIII. p. 738., and p. 332. of the present volume]: it 

first appears like mucus, but consists of a number of hairy 

substances. ‘These hairs, when magnified, appear like a 

collection of granules of a bulbous shape, each containing a 

number of balls connected by strings. ‘These balls, though 

so minute as to be scarcely perceptible by the eye, are yet 
only receptacles for seed. ‘This is a most destructive fungus: 
it always seizes on the veins of the leaves, which afterwards 
turn yellow, and fall off; the branches next wither, and in 
two or three years a whole orchard is destroyed. Mr. 
Knight, in 1832, suffered severely from this fungus, and 


330 Notes on Mildew, from 


has tried many experiments respecting its cure. Hawthorn 
trees are attacked by a fungus, which at first appears merely 
a point made by an insect, but afterwards looks like fungi 
(Aicidium laceratum Dec.). [See Vol. VIII. p. 179. and 739.] 
The sycamore fungus is a black spot consisting of oblong 
purplish bodies, yellow inside, and containing tubes filled 
with seeds. Atcidium Grossularie Dec. (jig. 91.) attacks 
gooseberry bushes, and Atcidium cornutum (jg. 94.) the 
mountain ash: both spread rapidly, and are very difficult to 
cure. The ergot on the rye is a well-known and very de- 
structive species of mildew. It partakes of the nature of the 
truffle, and grows out of a spike of corn like a prolonged 
kernel. It is long, horny, and cartilaginous ; and it consists 
of fibres closely interlaced. ‘This disease evidently originates 
in the centre of the stem. It affects maize, various species of 
grass, and is often found in plants of yellow gentian, &c. 

The principal fungi of the third class, or those which 
attack the roots of plants, are two; and both closely resemble 
truffles. One of these (Rhizoctonia Crocorum) (jg. 98.), 
which is of a brownish yellow, attacks 
crocuses ; and, in those countries where 
the crocus is cultivated for its saffron as 
an article of commerce, it makes great 
ravages. It is called by the French 
la mort du safran, and soon destroys a 
whole crop. The other fungus, Periola 
tomentosa, is found on the potato, 
lucern, &c. It turns the roots, which 
are naturally white, of a purplish hue. 
Its ravages are often attributed to grubs. Both these fungi 
appear to be propagated by spawn, or fibres which spread 
through the earth, and cling round the roots which they find 
in their way. 

Having given a rapid sketch of some of the principal kinds 
of fungi which produce mildew, Dr. Lindley proceeded to 
speak of the causes which produce them, and of their cure. All 
are very easily propagated, from the rapidity with which they 
arrive at maturity, and the immense number of seeds which 
they produce. Most of the mildew fungi require only twenty- 
four hours from the first springing of the plant to the ripen- 
ing of its seed; and the number produced by each may be 
guessed from the circumstance of one mushroom being suf- 
ficient to propagate 250,000,000. ‘The extreme minuteness 
of the mildew fungi renders them still more numerous. The 
first class, or the superficial mildew, appears to be com- 
municated by the air, the seeds when ripe being carried by it 
from one plant to another, and establishing themselves wher- 


a Lecture by Professor Lindley. 331. 


ever they touch. ‘They destroy a plant by covering the sur- 
face of its leaves, and thus preventing respiration. Plants 
are generally most affected by superficial fungi after a long 
drought, when the fibres of their roots are unable to imbibe 
sufficient moisture from the soil, and the plant thus becomes 
debilitated, and affords an easy prey to the parasite which 
attacks it: as a proof, Dr. Lindley mentioned that in Scot- 
land, where there are heavy night dews, this fungus is un- 
known. ‘The cure seems to be abundant watering. Dr. 
Lindley mentioned a case of some onions, in the gardens of 
the Society at Chiswick, which were attacked by this fungus. 
These onions had been transplanted, and their roots were 
consequently so much weakened as to be unable to imbibe a 
sufficient quantity of moisture. Dr. Lindley had the plants 
abundantly watered, which, though it did not cure the in- 
fected plants, appeared completely to arrest the progress 
of the disease. Other onions, not transplanted, were not 
attacked. A correspondent of this Magazine (Mr. Hay- 
croft, Vol. VIII. p. 40.) recommends a mode of curing this 
mildew, which appears to be effectual, by cutting off the 
infected branches, washing the walls with a composition, and 
removing the infected nails, &c. Sulphur has also been 
recommended, but is not found to answer. [For other 
notices, in this Magazine, on the mildew, see Vol. II. p. 119., 
Vol. IV. p. 281. 320., Vol. V. p. 107., Vol. VII. p. 87.] 

The internal mildew evidently cannot be communicated by 
the air, since it always appears to spring from the interior of 
the plant, and to be at first covered with a thin skin, from 
which it does not burst till it is ripe. It is impossible, there- 
fore, that this kind of mildew can be communicated exter- 
nally, and yet the fact that it is contagious is so clear as not 
to admit a doubt. The only manner in which it appears 
probable that it can reach the interior is through the rocts. 
The seeds, when ripe, fall upon the earth, which becomes 
contaminated by them, and they are sucked up by the 
spongioles of the roots. [Mr. Dovaston has, also, held this 
opinion: see Vol. VIII. p. 739.] The correctness of this 
hypothesis is proved by sowing clean seeds in infected soil ; 
and the young plants from these seeds springing up with the 
disease upon them. ‘The circumstance of its always attacking 
the most vigorous plants is thus also explained, as it is 
evident that, the more rapid the circulation, the greater is 
the probability of extraneous substances being drawn up with 
the moisture imbibed by the rocts. It is also clear that, in 
this case, water must aggravate the disease; as, by exciting the 
plant to suck it up, it would increase the danger of the seeds 
of the fungi. being drawn in with it. ‘This was also the 


332 On Blight. 


reason that Mr. Errington found that burying his celery 
roots only made the mildew spread more rapidly. ‘The only 
cure for this fungus seems to be that adopted by Mr. Knight 
with his pear trees, viz., taking them up, washing the roots 
quite clean from every particle of soil, and then replanting 
them in quite a different part of his grounds. 

Red plants are said to be more liable to mildew than any 
other. Red is, indeed, supposed by some, always to indicate 
a morbid action, as it shows that the plant is unable to absorb 
carbonic acid gas from the atmosphere, which is necessary to 
its perfect health ; at all events, it is a proof of disease when 
leaves, or any other parts of a plant, not naturally red, assume 
that colour. Other experiments have been made for curing, 
or at least preventing the spread of, the internal mildew ; and 
Mr. Bauer has found that steeping grains of corn in lime- 
water will produce the desired effect. ‘There appears no 
cure for mildew in the roots, but by cutting a deep trench 
round the infected plants, and cutting off all communication 
between them and the rest of the field. I regret to have 
been unable to submit these notes to Professor Lindley: but, if 
they should contain any thing very erroneous, I will correct 
it in my introduction to his succeeding lecture on climate. — 


J. W. LL. 


Tue young gardener will find it worth his while to follow up these remarks 
by a perusal of the enumeration of the genera and species of British funguses 
in the Hortus Britannicus, and Encyclopedia of Plants, where, besides 
their names, some information is supplied on their habits. In relation to 
the above remarks, it is a question, the answer to which would interest, 
Are all the individual plants of any one species of any genus, to which 
species a certain species of fungus is peculiar, soil equally eligible, whatever 
be their condition of health, for the seeds of that fungus to germinate in 
or upon, and for the plants arising from these seeds to thrive in or upon, 
and be nourished by? This question is asked in consonance with a view 
entertained by a thinking friend of ours, who opines that disease, previously 
to the arrival of the seeds of the fungus, must predispose and prepare the 
leaves, or other parts, of a plant, as eligible soil for them to germinate in ; 
and that, consequently, parasitic fungi are never the forerunners, but ever 
the followers, of disease ; and, therefore, that, although the seeds of parasitic 
fungi are, doubtless, dispersed indiscriminately, and fall on the surfaces of 
vegetables indiscriminately too, they only germinate in and upon those 
which disease had previously rendered a fit soil for them. — J. D. 


Art. XIX. Additional Facts on the Fungus (Aictdium cancellatum 
Sowerby) parasitic on the Leaves and Fruit of the Pear Trees in 
the Garden at Buscot Park. By Mr. Joun MERRICK. 

Sir, 
RELATIVELY to the fungus which has been so injurious 
to my pear trees, and so very grievous to my master, 


On Blight. 


Pryse Pryse, Esq. M. P., as well as to myself (for no 
one can see all those beautiful pear trees so much injured 
by so dreadful a disease without deep regret), I beg to say, 
that, when I first came to my situation, about nine years 
since, I found the complaint upon three trees only, and those 
were upon a north cross wall. I was in hopes that it would 
soon disappear altogether ; but, after a year or two had elapsed, 
to my great surprise and mortification, I perceived that it got 
much worse, and that the dreadful disease was spread in 
different directions in the garden, and had taken its circuit 
both east and west. It still, year after year, continues its 
ravages. I certainly can say that I have a few trees that 
have escaped it in another part of the garden. ‘The trees are 
for the most part aged, exclusive of those that I have planted 
since I have been here, which have shared the same fate. All 
the other trees, I have no doubt, were planted when the 
garden was first made, which was done by my master’s father, 
E. Loveden, Esq. M.P., about fifty years since. That gen- 
tleman was a very great horticulturist, and the garden was 
made upon a very extensive scale, as he spared no expense. 
There is nearly a mile of walling, which is from 12 to 14 ft. 
in height; the soil is a strong stiffloam. ‘There are about 70 
fine large pear trees, many of them much admired for their 
fine spreading branches, each tree covering many yards of 
the wall. The whole of them throw out their first foliage well 
at their proper season; but when the leaves are thoroughly 
expanded, then the disease makes its first appearance by 
defacing the green leaves with very small red spots. 
Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 

Joun Mernicx. 

Buscot Park, near Farringdon. 
Dec. 31. 1832. 


ADDITIONAL to the remarks on this subject made in Vol. 
VIII. p. 738, 739. we have now nought to present, except the 
following quotation from Sowerby’s Lnglish Fungi, wherein, 
t. 409. and 410., two coloured figures of the fungus are 
given, which we have copied and given in p.329., and de- 
tailed descriptions of its forms and habits. On these enough 
has been said ; and we confine our quotation to Mr. Sowerby’s 
hints for preventing its increase. “ Avcidium cancellatum 
has been long a troublesome parasite in many places, and 
has been the cause of much loss as to the trees which it 
attacks, as well as in expensive and useless attempts to get 
rid of it. I think, however, its very nature, like the dry 
rot, bespeaks an easy cure; but easy cures do not always 


334 On Blight. 


gain the confidence due to them. I did not dare to give an 
easy receipt for the cure of the dry rot, till it was proved to be 
a good one by Lord Heathfield, who found it succeed. I 
now may, therefore, venture to give my opinion. By m 
advice, Lord Heathfield caused proper passages for the ad- 
mission of common dry air, which became an effectual cure ; 
and I persist in it, that, where there is a certain proportion of 
dry air, these fungi are not to be found, but only in those 
seasons when such is natural to the Gimares They indicate 
a certain temperature, like a thermometer, pointing it out 
when we otherwise do not perceive it; and we may be assured 
that a certain degree of moisture and temperature is as 
necessary for the ‘erowth of the fungus tribe as any other.” 
These remarks, although they do not supply a definite 
prescription, may not be wholly useless. Mr. Sowerby was 
furnished with specimens on June 17. 1807, by John Walker, 
Esq., of ‘some wall trees, at his seat at Southgate; it 
covered, nearly in this manner, a large number of trees. Mr. 
Walker had the leaves stripped from the trees: . . - - 
On October 12. 1807, William Lewis, Esq., sent me, from 
Hendon, the leaves of a Cnaumontelle pear tree, which grew 
against an open fence, the inclination of which was to the 
south-east.” 

Mr. Merrick will find farther notices on this subject, in 
p- 329. 332. of the present Number: Mr. Knight’s.mode of 
preventing the effects of the A%cidium cancellatum will be 
impracticable in the case of trees so old and large as those 
under the care of Mr. Merrick. 

In further connection with the preceding mention of 
blights by fungus, we shall here introduce to the con- 
sideration and canvassing of our practical friends some 
notices on blights produced on plants by insects: they are 
written by Rusticus of Godalming, a valued contributor to 
our Magazine of Natural History ; but are published in the 
Entomological Magazine, an excellent quarterly journal, price 
os6d. a number, devoted solely to information on insects. 
We feel no apprehension of the proprietors of that work being 
at all displeased at the liberty we are taking, as we know 
their foremost wish is to diffuse entomological knowledge. 

“* Observations on the Blights of the Apple” Tree, and its 
Eruit. — “1 don’t know why our brethren on the other side 
the Atlantic are charged with sending us the greatest pest of 
our orchards; but so it is. We call an insect the American 
blight, which, for aught I could ever make out, may have come 
from China or Botany Bay. However, a name once in yogue 
will have its day; and one might as well attempt to turn a pig 

‘in an entry as argue against an established belief; so American 


On Blight. 835 


blight it shall be. In very hot weather you may now and then 
see this blight on the wing; it has just the look of a bit of 
cotton, or a downy seed, floating in the air, and is driven by 
every breath of wind quite as readily. If you catch and exa- 
mine it, you will find it to be just like the plant-louse which 
infests our rose trees, &c.: but, unlike all other plant-lice, it is 
clothed and muffled up with cotton wool, in such quantities, 
that you would at first have no more idea that the lump con- 
tained an insect, than that the mass of clothes on a stage-coach 
box, in winter, contained aman. Some folks wonder what can 
be the use of so much clothing; I am not much of a theorist, 
but I should guess that the vermin came from the torrid zone, 
and Nature kindly furnishes this garment to protect them from 
the cold of our climate. 

“These blights wander wherever it pleases the wind to carry 
them; and, if bad luck should drive one of them against the 
branch of an apple tree, there it will stick, creep into a crack 
in the bark, bring forth its young, and found a colony: the 
white cotton soon appears in large bunches; branch after 
branch becomes infected; the tree grows cankery, pines, and 
dies. How this is effected no one knows, though the cause 
and effect are too evident to escape the notice of the com- 
monest clown. In large orchards it is vain to hope for a 
cure, but not soin gardens. Directly you see the least morsel 
of cotton, make up your mind to a little trouble, and you will 
get rid of it. In the first place, get a plasterer’s whitewashing- 
brush, then get a large pot of double size, make your man 
heat it till it is quite liquid, then go with him into the garden 
and see that he paints over every patch of white, though not 
bigger than a sixpence; the next morning have the size-pot 
heated again, and have another hunt; and keep on doing so 
every morning for a fortnight. Your man will tell you it’s 
no use; tell him that’s your business, not his: your neigh- 
bours will laugh at you for your pains; do it before they are 
up. I have tried it, and know it to be effectual. Spirit of 
tar has been used with partial effect, so also has resin; white- 
washing has been often tried, and, as it contains some size, is 
not entirely useless, and some horticulturists think it orna- 
mental: I do not.” 

We now present from correspondents the following re- 
marks on 

The American Bug, or Cotton Insect (A‘phis lanigera), which 
is of great consequence when speaking of the diseases of apple 
trees. It appears to be spreading continually into new dis- 
tricts, though its method of travelling is uncertain. I have 
known it make its appearance in gardens far removed from 


336 On Blight. 


any other, and into which no new trees had been conveyed. 
But these situations were in the bottom of valleys; and I have 
observed that it ascends the acclivity of a hill very slowly. 
Many efforts have been made to deliver our orchards from 
this new, spreading, and destructive pest; but it seems to 
me that they have failed of success, chiefly for want of keeping 
the proper object in view. ‘The destruction of this insect is 
easy, so far as it can be reached: but in an extensive orchard 
it is impossible to search every crevice; and none of the 
applications that have been recommended even profess to 
answer the principal requisite, of rendering the tree an un- 
pleasant situation for the bug in time to come. Yet without 
this, even if all in the orchard were destroyed, they would 
soon cross again the hedges from the neighbouring trees. 
For the destruction of the American blight, or bug (the latter 
name, at least, is improper, if names are of consequence), it is 
requisite that the application made use of should extend its 
efficacy into crevices to which it cannot be, and has not been, 
injected; its virtues should endure for some considerable 
period; it should be not expensive, and not hurtful to the 
trees. My experience of about two years enables me to 
speak favourably of the diluted sulphuric acid in this respect 
(such as is used in apothecaries’ shops), which is formed 
of the mixture (made slowly) of three quarters of an ounce mea- 
sure of the sulphuric acid with 73 oz. of water. Care should be 
taken not to let it touch the garments of the operator, in which 
it will make holes. It should be applied all over the bark by 
means of rags, the only parts exempted being the present 
year’s shoots, which it would destroy. It destroys moss and 
lichens, as well as insects; and if applied in showery weather, 
will be washed into every crevice in which they can harbour. 
The insects which are touched with it immediately die; and 
those that have not been touched with it very soon cease to 
yield so large a secretion of cotton; by which means, if it be 
true that the young ones are conveyed by the winds wrapped 
up in this mantle, their propagation must be much curtailed. 
After the application of the acid, when the weather has been 
fair, I have seen them in crevices, still busily at work; but, 
on the occurrence of a rainy day, which, I suppose, has in- 
undated them with the poisonous fluid, they have been found 
all dead. I have seen a small tree, that before seemed to 
languish, thrive remarkably in the second season following 
the application of the acid; a proof that, at least, it is not 
injurious to vegetation. ‘This fluid has the recommendation 
of being void of the offensive odour of some that have been 
used for the purpose; and, so far from being unsightly, as 


On Blight. 337 


lime is, no one could discover that an application of it had 
been made. — Jonathan Couch. Polperro, Cornwall, 1830. 

The Sublimate of Tar is a Means of destroying the Aphis 
lanigera. — ‘‘ In the garden of the Rev. W. Wharton of Gil- 
ling, under the care “G6 Mr. J. Bainbridge, the sublimate of 
tar has been used for the cotton blight, and with complete 
success, as it has in no instance failed in eradicating that 
obstinate and destructive insect. ‘The mode of using it is as 
follows : — take a common painter’s brush, and with it rub 
any part of the tree that is affected; a day or two after, ex- 
amine the tree carefully, and wherever you find the insect to 
have burst through the tar, rub it till it is completely covered. 
When a wound is made in the tree from the tearing off of a 
branch, or any other cause, a timely application of tar will 
prevent the insect from obtaining an entrance.” (Birming- 
ham Journal, June 9. 1832.) 

Train Oil applied to the Aphis lanigera with a stiff-haired 
Brush is a Means of destroying it.—-In my father’s garden 
the codlin is almost the only kind of apple the trees of which 
are infested with this insect, although trees of several kinds of 
apple grow in the garden. ‘The insects occur in white woolly 
clusters about the stem and branches, nestling in the hollows 
and pits so usual in the stem and branches of the codlin. 
The insects so clustered and situate my father destroys with- 
out much difficulty by rubbing in amongst them, with a stiff- 
haired brush, train oil; and what the pungent hairs of the 
brush do not stab to death, the oil tends to kill by suffocation, 
as oil serves to render impervious to the admission of air 
those breathing holes in the sides of insects by which their 
respiration is effected. — J. D. 

Oil and Soot, well mixed together, and applied to the Aphis 
lanigera, destroy it. — B. B. states (Vol. VIII. p. 52.) that he 
has “ found oil and soot, well mixed together, and rubbed in 
with a brush, an eflectuall cure for the A’phis lanigera on 
apple trees; for, although it has appeared again on the same 
tree, it has never again attacked the parts ‘of it which had 
been once well saturated with the mixture.” Other remarks 
on, and prescriptions for destroying, the A’phis lanigera will 
be found in this Magazine, Vol. I. p. 388., Vol. II. p. 49, 50. 
165., Vol. ILI. p. 30., Vol VII. p. 244. 379. 721, Vol. VIII. 
p- 52. 149. 357. Besides the information which may be 
found in these places, we may append the following remarks 
on this subject : — 

Sir, In reading in your Magazine (Vol. II. p. 49.) of an 
effectual remedy — to destroy the American A’phis, an ex- 
periment I tried three years ago was brought to my mind. 

Vou, IX.— No. 44. Z 


338 On Blight. 


In a garden which I occupied five years since, I had two old 
codlin trees, the stems literally covered with the aphides. I 
tried several expedients to destroy them, but failed, and 
found they had so secreted themselves in the deep interstices 
of the bark that no application would reach them. I then, 
with great care, pared the rough bark entirely off: even then 
I could not destroy them. I at length discovered that they 
had infested the root much below the surface of the soil. I 
removed the earth round the root, and applied a mixture 
consisting of strong lime water, strongly infused with tobacco ; 
but to no > good purpose. Some time after, on digging a hole 
to plant another tree at twelve feet distant, I took up a run- 
ning root infested with them. If, then, they can be destroyed 
on “Old trees, the destruction must be very difficult. ‘Their 
prevalence is therefore better prevented than cured; and to 
avoid their pernicious effects, as few nurseries are entirely 
free from them, I washed the young trees which I have 
planted in my present garden, as soon as received, with 
strong soap suds from the wash-house, with a brush not suf- 
ficiently hard to injure the buds, both tops and roots, per- 
fectly clean. I discovered the trees received most essential 
benefit from the washing, independently of the advantage 
derived from the prevention of so great an evil, for most of 
them were more or less affected with the aphides. I after- 
wards discovered them at the bottom of a young currant 
tree. I instantly opened the earth, so as to make a pool 
about 2 ft. over. I then washed the stem with the mixture 
above named, and filled up the pool, stirring it with a broom, 
in order that the woolly covering should not prove a pro- 
tection; by which means I have kept my garden entirely free 
from them. In a number of apple trees which I planted, two 
or three died ; and to induce those planted in the place of 
the dead ones to overtake the trees planted the year previous, 
I washed them in soap-suds about milk-warm, and _ planted 
them immediately. The trees thus treated have made shoots 
more than four feet long the first year, and have fully an- 
swered my expectations. I am, Sir, yours, &c.— Charles 
Baron. Saffron Walden, Feb. 7. 18277. 

Additional information on the subterraneous habits of the 
A‘phis lanigera will be found in Salisbury’s Hints to the 
Proprietors of Orchards (1817, 12mo). I may remark that 
during the eve of winter I have frequently met with aphides, 
although, I believe, not of the species lanigera, on the roots 
of annual and other herbaceous plants, beneath the surface of 
the soil; usually, if | remember rightly, on roots that were 
dead, dying, or decaying; and the aphides themselves, although 
alive, were mostly very inert. 


On Blight. 339 


_ Mr. Baron mentions a currant tree as being infested with 
aphides. In seasons when “ honey dew” (the excretions of 
aphides, it is said) abounds, aphides will usually be found 
abounding on the under side of the uppermost leaves of cur- 
rant trees. I may, however, here mention, in justice to in- 
sects, that my father has long been of opinion that insects are, 
in many instances, guiltless of being the first occasion of a 
diseased appearance in plants, of which they are generally 
deemed the original cause, in consequence of their being 
found coupled with the effect. For an instance, he finds the 
uppermost leaves of his currant bushes get injured by frost 
while young, and such leaves, as the shoot lengthens and 
they become expanded, exhibit a crumpled and, on their 
upper side, reddened appearance. As the season advances, 
and warmth increases, aphides resort to the cavities of these 
crumples on the lower face of the leaf, and, by midsummer 
and afterward, every crumpled leaf is the home of a host of 
aphides, which, it is doubtless, now increase that disease 
which first induced them to resort there. My father’s prac- 
tice in this and every such case is, to remove totally all leaves 
so affected, by cutting at once off the top of the shoot which 
bears them, and then to destroy the aphides by any ready 
means, as crushing, scalding, or burning. — J. D. 

These various notices on the Aphis lanigera registered, 
we now resume the observations of Rusticus on 

Other Blights of the Apple.—‘* Now for the moth. This 
is a beautiful little creature, its wings are studded with silvery 
shining specks, as though they were inlaid with precious 
gems. It is the most beautiful of the beautiful tribe to which 
it belongs, yet from its habits not being known, it is seldom 
seen in the moth state, and the apple-grower knows no more 
than the man in the moon to what cause he is indebted for 
his basketsful of worm-eaten windfalls in the stillest weather. 
To find the moth in the day-time, the trunks of the apple 
trees should be carefully looked over; or, if your orchard 
be surrounded by a wooden fence, it may frequently be found 
sitting against it, with its pretty wings neatly folded round it. 
Towards evening, in fact just at sunset, it begins to move, 
and may then be seen hovering about the little apples, which, 
by the time the moth leaves the chrysalis, the middle of June, 
are well knit, and consequently fit for the reception of its 
egos, which it lays in the eyes, one only in each, by intro- 
ducing its long ovipositor between the leaves of the calyx, 
which form a tent above it that effectually shields it from the 
inclemency of the weather, or any other casualty. As soon 


as the egg hatches, the little grub gnaws a hole in the crown 
Z2 


340 On Blight. 


of the apple, and soon buries itself in its substance ; and it 
is worthy of remark that the rind of the apple, as if to afford 
every facility to the destroyer, is thinner here than in any 
other part, and consequently more easily pierced. ‘The 
apple most commonly attacked is the codlin, a large early 
sort, which ripens in July and August. 

“ The grub, controlled by an unvarying instinct, eats into 
the apple obliquely downwards, and by thus avoiding the 
core and pips in no way hinders its growth: at first it makes 
but slow progress, being little bigger than a thread, but after 
a fortnight its size and its operations have much increased ; 
it has now eaten half-way down the apple, and the position of 
the hole at the top, if the apple continue upright, or nearly 
so, is inconvenient for a purpose it has up to this time been 
used for, that is, as a pass to get rid of its little pellets of 
excrement, which are something like fine sawdust or coarse 
sand; another communication with the outer air is therefore 
required, and it must be so constructed as to allow the power 
of gravity to assist in keeping it clear; it is accordingly made 
directly downwards towards that part of the apple which is 
lowest, and thus the trouble of thrusting the pellets upwards 
through the eye of the apple is saved, and a constant admission 
given to a supply of air without any labour. The hole now 
made is not, however, sufficiently open for an observer to gain 
by its means any knowledge of what is going on within; this is. 
only to be obtained by cutting open a number of the apples 
as they gradually advance towards ripeness; the hole is, 
however, very easily seen, from its always having adhering to 
it on the outside, an accumulation of the little grains which 
have been thrust through. Having completed this work, the 
grub returns towards the centre of the apple, where he feeds 
at his ease. When within a few days of being full fed, he, 
for the first time, enters the core through a round hole 
gnawed in the hard horny substance which always: separates 
the pips from the pulp of the fruit, and the destroyer now 
finds himself in that spacious chamber which codlins in 
particular always have in their centre. From this time he 
eats only the pips, never again tasting the more common 
pulp which hitherto had satisfied his unsophisticated palate : 
now nothing less than the highly flavoured aromatic kernels 
will suit his tooth, and on these for a few days he feasts in 
luxury. 

** Somehow or other, the pips of an apple are connected 
with its growth, as the heart of an animal with its life: 
injure the heart, an animal dies; injure the pips, an apple 
falls. Whether the fall of his house gives the tenant warning 


On Blight. 341° 


to quit, I cannot say, but quit he does, and that almost im- 
mediately ; he leaves the core, crawls along his breathing and 
clearing-out gallery, the mouth of which, before nearly closed, 
he now gnaws into a smooth round hole, which will. permit 
him free passage without hurting his fat, soft, round body ; 
then out he comes, and for the first time in his life finds 
himself in the open air. He now wanders about on the 
ground till he finds the stem of a tree: up this he climbs, 
and hides himself in some nice little crack in the bark. I 
should remark, that the fall of the apple, the exit of the grub; 
and his wandering to this place of security, usually take place 
in the night-time. In this situation he remains without stir- 
ing for a day or two, as if to rest himself after the uncom- 
mon fatigue of a two yards’ march; he then gnaws away the 
bark a little, in order to get further in out of the way of 
observation; and having made a smooth chamber big enough 
for his wants, he spins a beautiful little milk-white silken case, 
in which, after a few weeks, he becomes a chrysalis, and 
in this state remains throughout the winter and until the 
following June, unless some unlucky blackheaded tit, running 
up the trunk, peeping into every cranny, and whistling out 
his merry see-saw, happens to spy him, in which case he is 
plucked without ceremony from his retreat, and his last mo- 
ments are spent in the bird’s crop; but supposing no such ill- 
fortune betide him, by the middle of June he is again on the 
wing, and hovering round the young apples on a midsummer 
evening as before. ° 

‘‘ By burning weeds in your garden, at this time of year, you 
will effectually drive away this little moth. If you have trees 
the crops of which you value, make a smoking (mind, not a 
blazing) fire under each; it will put you to some. incon- 
venience if your garden be near your house, but the apples 
will repay you for that.” 

In the third number (published April, 1833) of the Enéo- 
mological Magazine, Rusticus continues this subject in these 
words : — 

‘‘] have another little rascal that eats my apples and 
pears; but, as I have not made myself master of his history, I 
will leave him over for another summer for examination; he 
eats down the stalks of the pears, particularly when they are 
about the size of gooseberries, and causes them to tumble 
denn by hundreds: I dare say I shall find him out by-and- 

yy.” 


342 Improvements in Australia. 


Art. XX. Short Communications. 


AusTRALIA.— Sydney. We have lately received a valuable 
packet of seeds and dried specimens, from Mr. M‘Lean, the 
under curator of the Sydney Botanic Garden; and also a 
variety of gratifying information respecting the colony, from 
Mr. Lawrence, a surgeon, who spent five months in New 
South Wales last year, chiefly in travelling in the interior 
among the settlers. The prosperity of the colony has in- 
creased much, in consequence of all the new grants of land 
being paid for, instead of being chiefly given away as for- 
merly. Concentration is thus produced, which is always 
more favourable to improvement than dispersion. Mr. 
Lawrence, in his tour through the country (which was in 
great part made in the society of a Scotch landowner and 
excellent cultivator), found every where all the improved 
instruments of British husbandry, two-horse ploughs, drills, 
horse-hoes, cultivators, threshing machines, and even one of 
the reaping machines of Bell, first figured in this work. In 
some of the houses of the Scotch farmers, far in the interior 
of the country, Mr. Lawrence observed excellent select 
libraries, and among them, very commonly, the “ncyclo- 
pedia Britannica, or Brewster's Encyclopedia. We were 
gratified to find that our works were also very generally read 
in the colony. A message was brought us by Mr. Lawrence 
that a short kitchen-gardening book would be very desirable, 
and we can recommend, as precisely the sort of publication 
for a settler, our Cottage Manual, which is at once an 
epitome of the most useful parts of gardening, farming, and 
cottage building. ‘To this work, which contains three model 
designs for cottages, we have just added an Appendix, con- 
taining thirty designs for cottages, or farm-houses, of dif- 
ferent degrees of accommodation, from four to ten rooms. 
The price of the Manual alone is 2s., and that of the Ap- 
pendix 7s. ‘The want of a good system of general education 
is stated to be much felt in the colony, but it is believed that 
the colonists will soon have a legislature of their own; and 
then they will relieve themselves from certain very oppressive 
establishments imposed on them by the mother country. We 
regret to find from Mr. Lawrence, that a number of letters 
which we have sent out to our correspondents at Sydney have 
been lost, as well as letters from some of them to us. The 
seeds sent us by Mr. M‘Lean, we have divided between the 
Birmingham, Manchester, and Goettingen Botanic Gardens. 

Calls at the Nurseries. — We have been our usual rounds 
among the nurseries, and other London gardens, since the 
appearance of our last Number, and intended giving our notes 
on them in the present one. ‘There is, however, no room, and 


Calls at the Nurseries. 343 


we can only state that Magnolza conspicua and Wistaria 
Consequana have bloomed this season more magnificently than 
we have ever seen them before. It is gratifying to find the 
latter plant flowering against the walls of some common street 
houses; to which, with the Scotch laburnum, that, on the 
same aspect, blossoms at the same time, it forms a splendid 
covering. Magnolza purptrea has been very fine at Mr. Lee’s. 
The azaleas promise beautifully there, at Mr. Malcolm’s, 
at the Fulham Nursery, at Mr. Chandler’s, and indeed 
every where. We hope to be able to see those of Mr. 
Waterer and Mr. Donald in the course of next month. 
Mr. Chandler has made considerable improvements in his 
hot-houses, and has extended his hot water apparatus in 
Kewley’s manner. The whole of Chandler’s nursery, when 
we saw it, was in excellent order, and the articles beautifully 
grown. ‘The auriculas at Mr. Hoge’s were excellent; and 
Mr. Groom’s tulip bed looks better this year than we ever 
before saw it. Mr. Knight’s plants are in admirable condition, 
and his Orchidez are certainly the best grown that we have 
seen this year in the neighbourhood of London. ‘Telopea 
speciossima, the waratah plant from New Holland, has bloomed 
here in very fine style. We never saw the Chelsea Botanic 
Garden looking so well, especially the rockwork. We are 
happy to find an arboretum commenced, and the trees dis- 
tinctly named, in the Surrey Zoological Gardens. It is in- 
tended to name the shrubs and herbaceous plants in the same 
manner, and thus, for all general purposes, to combine a 
Botanic with a Zoological Garden. — Cond. 

At Dickson’s Nursery, Acre Lane, Brixton Causeway. — On. 
May 6. 1833. a good many auriculas were still beautifully in 
blossom, and in a healthy and vigorous condition. Of the 
Cape jasmine (Gardeénza florida), a 1 plant of ready sale, there 
were numerous plants in blossom. The collection of hardy 
herbaceous plants here is, for a small nursery, rather rich, 
and in excellent order, and will through the season supply to 
the eye of observers a succession of beauties. — J. D. sen. 

Messrs. Fairbairn’s. — The collection of green-house plants 
is here of considerable extent, and kept in admirable order, 
health, and eompactness, by having a large proportion of the 
plants, small, young, and stowed on shelves, so arranged as 
to make the utmost of the space and the light. Numerous 
species of hardy herbaceous plants and shrubs are grown 
here, where I now saw, for the first time, a semi-double pyra- 
cantha beautifully in flower. — J. D. sen. May 6. 1833. 

Dennis and Co.’s collection of pelargoniums exhibited on 
May 16. a blaze of beauty. — J. D. 

“Z4 


344 


REVIEWS. 


Art. I. Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London. 
Second Series. Vol. I. Part II. 4to. London, Hatchard. 


(Continued from p. 89.) 


24. The Result of some Experiments on the Growth of Potatoes, 
tried in the Garden of the Society in the Year 1831. By John 
Lindley, Esq. F.R.S., Assistant Secretary. Read Nov. 15. 1831. 


For the details of the experiment we refer to the article 
itself, consisting of nine quarto pages. ‘The experiments 
were instituted to test the results of Mr. Knight’s experi- 
ments on the cultivation of the potato, as described in the 
Transactions, vol, vii. p. 405., and as noticed in this Magazine, 
Vol. V. p. 294. and 718—722., and Mr. Lindley draws the 
following conclusion, and pronounces it to be quite confirm- 
atory of Mr. Knight’s statements. ‘ In order to acquire the. 
greatest possible weight of potatoes per acre, it is necessary 
that large round heavy tubers should be employed, and that 
the space allowed for the growth of each plant should be as 
nearly as possible such as it would naturally occupy, if suf- 
fered to spread freely cn all sides without interruption; that 
this space will vary according to the habits. of particular 
varieties, and can only be determined by accurate experi- 
ments; that too much and too little room are alike injurious 
to productiveness ; and that, finally, it is quite practicable at 
least to double the crops that are usually obtained. 

‘‘ Tt cannot be necessary for me,” says Mr. Lindley, “ after 
this statement, to make any remarks upon the methods at 
present in use, of planting sets or fragments, or the smallest 
tubers, or even, as sometimes in Ireland, parings of the 
potato; the evil consequences of such practices cannot but be 
apparent to every one.’ 

Our friend Mr. Barnet, of the Experimental Garden of 
Edinburgh, in a letter dated sinecenber 26. 1832, obligingly 
advises us on various subjects, and has the following remarks 
on the above one.— Cond. 

“* We have been trying the planting of whole potatoes in 
wide rows; and, in a trial of three kinds, the mode has 
proved superior in one kind, the early frame, in rows 3 ft. 
apart, as this kind has yielded ten bolls [a boll is about 


Transactions of the London Horticultural Society. 345 


six bushels] an acre more than when cultivated in the usual 
mode; namely, by small sets, and in rows 2 ft. asunder. 
In the two other kinds, which were late ones, the produce of 
the new method has been inferior; but one kind had suffered 
considerably from the depredations of a herd of rats, so that 
the result in this case has not been satisfactorily ascertained. 
But more of this at some convenient time.” 


25. Upon the Cultivation of the Carnation. In a Letter to the 
Secretary. By Mr. William May, F.H.S., of the Pickhill and 
Hope Nursery, Leamington. Read April 5. 1831. 


Mr. May pots his layers off the parent plants, in Septem- 
ber, into pots of the size No. 48, in previously prepared soil, 
composed of one half old leaf mould, and the other half 
coarse pit sand approaching to grit, having first drained 
each pot with a handful of potsherds broken small. When 
the plants are potted and watered, they are placed in a frame 
filled with old tan, * so that it will just admit the pot and 
the plant to stand on the surface and not touch the glass: ” 
this frame is kept closed and shaded for a few days, until the 
plants have recovered, when air is given daily by degrees. 
When the plants are established, to daily airing are added 
watering as required, complete exposure in dry warm wea- 
ther, and careful protection from dew-falls and excess of wet, 
until November and frequently December. After having 
passed the frosts of winter in this situation, during which 
Mr. May merely keeps the lights completely closed and has 
had them covered with snow for even eight weeks, he, on the 
return of fine weather, airs and heats them as before, ‘ until 
the latter end of March, when, for a few days before final 
removing, I give them full air night and day.” Each plant is 
then potted for blooming into a 30-sized pot, drained to one 
sixth part of its depth with well broken potsherds, in a com- 
post, prepared in the winter, of three fifths decomposed 
leaf soil, one fifth coarse pit sand or grit, and one fifth road- 
scraping from a limestone-made road, or the subsoil or 
paring next the stone used for lime. ‘* These,” says Mr. 
May, “I cause to be turned, exposed, and mixed well toge- 
ther; and, as the quantity wanted for even a large stock of 
carnations is easily looked over and picked by hand, all 
worms, wire worms, &c., are taken out.” ‘The plants, when 
potted, are plunged in the ground where intended to bloom, 
so that the rim is just covered with soil.” 

The remainder of Mr. May’s directions we copy entire :— 

“¢ Before each pot is plunged, I have a small quantity of 
soot put into the bottom of the place intended for it, so that 


346 Transactions of the London Horticultural Society. 


the bottom of the pot may touch it when finally placed ; this 
I find of the greatest moment, as it prevents the entry of 
worms, grubs, and wire worms, all of which appear to have 
an objection to remain near where it is, and thus it keeps the 
roots from being disturbed or destroyed, and the plant is in 
perfect health all through the summer, which cannot be done 
by any other method that I have tried or seen. Some gar- 
deners grow carnations in large pots placed on the surface, 
others, in the ground openly; by the former method, the 
plants are frequently either too moist or too dry; and by the 
latter, are subject to the wire worm, grub, &c., and, in sum- 
mers like that of 1830, are destroyed by too much wet. 

‘‘ In the season of layering, I place an inch thick of fine 
sandy soil round each pot, in which the layers readily strike 
root.” 

The above communication is the result of seven years’ 
practice in the culture of carnations, in the course of which 
Mr. May tried various experiments, and studied most of the 
treatises on the subject, but has failed of success by most of 
the plans he has seen recommended. ‘Those who are aware 
that the Dianthus Caryoph/llus, the acknowledged origin of all 
our garden carnations, picotees, &c., is found wild in this 
country, mainly on old walls, as those in Norwich, and of 
Rochester, Deal, and Sandown Castles, will observe with 
pleasure, in the “coarse pit sand or grits” and the “ scrapings 
of a limestone road” prescribed above, considerable assimi- 
lation to that mortary matter which forms the soil of the 
plants of our native species. See on this subject also a 
remark quoted from Mr. Sweet’s Florist’s Guide, in our Vol. 
VII. p. 478.—J. D. 


26. An Account of a new Kind of Protecting Frame to be used in 
forcing Asparagus, Sea-kale, &c.,in the open Ground. Ina Letter 
to the Assistant Secretary. By Mr. John Dick of Ballindean, 
C.M.H.S. Read Nov. 2. 1830. 


This communication exhibits figures and descriptions of two 
frames, formed on one principle, but differing in dimensions, 
according to the object for which each is intended. Each 
is constructed altogether of wood, and is of an oblong form, 
covered with a span roof, the roof on one side being mainly 
formed of a range of hinged lift-up shutters; each, too, is to 
be placed over the plants to be forced, and covered with hot 
dung. ‘The first is intended for forcing sea-kale, rhubarb, 
or any plants grown in rows in the open garden. ‘The fol- 
lowing are the particulars of its structure, management, and 
advantages : — 


Transactions of the London Horticultural Society. 34:7 


It is 12 ft. long, and Mr. Dick prefers this length to a 
greater, as it is easily lifted about without the joints being 
broken by twisting; the breadth about 14 ft.; and the height 
to the top of the side wall about 8 in., and to the ridge of the 
roof about 13 ft. ‘The wood (boarding, we presume) ought 
not to be less than five eighths or three fourths of an inch 
thick. ‘The shutters are three, hinged within 3 in. of the 
ridge of the roof, and fall on four rafters of about 8 in. 
wide: the hinges may be of metal, of leather, or even of 
linen. A hole, 6 in. square, is cut in each of the end rafters, 
and one in one of the remaining rafters, apparently towards 
their top part, and these holes have square boxes adapted to 
them; the end ones are for occasional ventilation, and that 
towards the middle is for facilitating the examination of a 
thermometer that is fixed inside the frame. For this ther- 
mometer a scale engraved on brass is recommended ; “ for, in 
such situations,” scales on wood ‘* soon become obliterated.” 

‘¢ When to be used, the frame is placed over a row of sea- 
kale, &c., and sunk almost 2 in. in the soil, so as to keep out 
mice and snails. It is then covered all over with about 6 in. of 
warm dung, or rather more, at the sides of the frame. The 
plants will soon be stimulated into growth by the geritle 
warmth thus communicated; they can be watched by means 
of the shutters; the temperature of the frame can be ascer- 
tained by inserting the thermometer in the middle box; ven- 
tilation can be effected by the end boxes; warmth can be 
renewed or increased, if necessary, by exchanging a little of 
the dung, when cooling, for some fresh. When the forcing 
begins, the thermometer should be kept about 60°; after it 
may gradually advance to 65° or 70°, regulating it according 
to the objects in view. ; 

* This kind of frame, if judiciously managed, will be found 
much superior to the earthenware covers that are commonly 
used, and also more economical; for neither is it subject to 
the expense of breakage, nor does it consume more than one 
half the quantity of dung. Further, it keeps the border in 
which the plants are growing dry, and prevents its being 
chilled by being soaked with rain; all of which are important 
advantages that do not attend the use of earthen covers.” 

Mr. Dick’s frame for the forcing of asparagus principally 
differs in being wider and deeper, namely “about a yard wide, 
and about 17 ft. deep to the ridge of the roof, and the side 
walls about three fourths of a foot high. The frame, when 
used, is to be placed over the asparagus bed, its edge being sunk 
three or four inches below the surface of the soil, which is to 
slope gradually outwards, so that the dung lining may be applied 


348 Transactions of the London Horticultural Society. 


directly below the edge of the frame, which is then covered 
with hot dung, but in greater abundance than in the case of 
sea-kale, because there is more earth to be heated.” 

‘* The management of the forcing consists in taking care 
that the heat is not strong for some time after the frame is 
placed. ‘The heads which first appear will be small and 
weak, as is always the case, but they will be gradually suc- 
ceeded by stronger. ‘The cutting should not be prolonged 
too much; a fortnight, or a little more, is as much as is expe- 
dient. In the end, the bed is to be gradually cooled, and the 
frame removed, and the bed will cease to produce asparagus 
till the sain period of its growth arrives, when it will 
revive, and may be cut again a required. ‘This is, however, 
not advisable, as the unimpeded growth of the asparagus 
through the summer will nearly restore the bed to its former 
vigour before the succeeding winter. It is better, however, 
not to force a bed oftener than every two years. If aspara- 
gus were grown in rows, instead of beds, then the frame 
described for sea-kale, &c., would serve equally well for 
asparagus. 


27. Note upon the Cannon Hall Muscat Grape. By John Lindley, 
Esq. F.R.S., Assistant Secretary. Read Jan. 17. 1832. 


A delicious grape resembling the muscat of Alexandria. 
Specimens of it were sent to the Society in August, 1831, 
by Mr. Robert Buck of Blackheath, who first became ac- 
quainted with it “while in the service of Lord Bagot, at 
Blithfield Hall, in consequence of a plant having been pre- 
sented to his lordship by Charles Spencer Stanhope, Esq. 
of Cannon Hall, in Yorkshire, as one of the finest and 
largest grapes in England, a character which it has been 
found by experience to deserve.” It differs from the muscat 
of Alexandria, in having wood rather stronger, leaves much 
larger, and petioles much thicker; its bunch also sets more 
thinly and regularly ; its berries are perceptibly longer, their 
flesh is less firm, although equaily rich; and it ripens by the 
side of the muscat of Alexandria full a fortnight earlier. 
Mr. Buck “ grows it in a succession pine stove, and keeps 
the temperature as low as his pines will bear in winter, till 
the middle or end of February, when he gradually increases 
the warmth, so that it shall arrive at about pine-apple heat 
by the time the berries are swelling; this he does in order to 
extend the pedicels as much as possible; for one of the pecu- 
liarities of the variety is, that although the berries in setting 
are so far apart that it would seem as if the bunch would be 
very imperfect when ripe, yet they finally become so large 


Botanical Miscellany. 349 


that a subsequent thinning is absolutely necessary. ‘The 
bunch is about 6in. long, and fully as broad across the 
shoulders; the berries hang loosely, and before ripening are 
of a rich yellowish green, but afterwards become of a bright 
pale amber colour, oval, and about 12 lines long by 93 or 10 
across, with the skin tough, and the flesh solid, juicy, sweet, 
and extremely high flavoured.” Mr. Buck deems the fruit 
capable of hanging a long time on the vine after being ripe. 


(To be continued.) 


Art. II. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, 
Rural Architecture, &c., lately published, with some Account 
of those considered the most interesting. 


BRITAIN. 
Hooker, W. J.. UL.D., King’s Professor of Botany in the 


Glasgow University: ‘The Botanical Miscellany ; contain- 
ing igures and Descriptions of such Plants as recommend 
themselves by their novelty, rarity, or history, or by the 
uses to which they are applied. In quarterly parts, 8vo, 
10s. 6d. each. London, 1832. 


Part ix. was published on the Ist of March. It completes 
the third volume, and contains a titlepage and index. ‘The 
communications in it are as follows : — The conclusion of the 
history of the Huwa, the inhabitants of the province Emirna 
in Madagascar: 32 pages. Botanical description of the 'Tan- 
ghin, Tanghinia veneniflua, by Professor Bojer. This is the 
Cérbera Tdnghin of the Botanical Magazine, t. 2968. Illus- 
trations of Indian Botany, by Dr. Wight: to this are attached 
exquisite figures of Limonia missionis, Ixora parviflora, grandi- 
flora, a superb-blossomed species, Salacia laevigata? Cadaba tri- 
phylla, Convélvulus Turpethum, Glycosmis triphylla, Jussize‘a 
répens, and Pongamia religidsa. Contributions towards a Flora 
of South America and the Islands of the Pacific, by Dr. 
Hooker and Mr. Arnott, continued from part vili.: the con- 
tinuation occupies 65 pages, and is an important contribu- 
tion to scientific botany: the more popular genera of which 
species are described are Fiachsza, G@inothéra, Cuphea, Myr- 
tus, Psidium, Eugénia, Maleshérbia, Lodsa, Calandrinia, 
Ribes, Escallonza, Eryngium. Notice respecting Mr. Berk- 
ley’s Gleanings of British A‘lg@. Notice respecting the [//us- 
trations of the Genera of German Plants. Account of In- 
dian Labiatee, in the collection of J. F. Royle, Esq., Director 
of the Hon. the East India Company’s Botanic Garden at 


350 British Flora. 


Saharumpur, &c., by George Bentham, Esq.: a valuable 
paper to systematic botany. Description by Drs. Greville 
and Hooker of Polypodium melanopum, and Cryptogramma 
retrofracta, of which figures were given in part vili.: see our 


Vol. VIII. p. 714. 


Hooker, W. J., LL.D.: A new and improved Edition of Cur- 
tis’s Botanical Magazine. In numbers, each containing 
four coloured figures, with amended botanical descriptions, 
and all the figures and descriptions arranged according te 
the natural orders, by Dr. Hooker: to which is added the 
most approved method of culture, by Samuel Curtis, F.L.S. 
Each number, with the figures partly coloured, 1s.; with 
them wholly coloured, 2s. 


Mr. Curtis and Dr. Hooker are, in the acts bespoken, 
doing the gardening and botanical public a great service ; 
for, important as is the first edition of The Botanical Maga- 
zine to botanists and cultivators of flower plants, for the eluci- 
dation of their pursuit, its price makes it inaccessible to too 
many of them. ‘The present edition goes to remedy this 
inconvenience. The first edition has, too, the fault of having 
the various species of a genus (where several species of a 
genus have been figured in the work) scattered through two, 
more, or many volumes: take the genus J’ris as an example. 
In the present edition the species figured and described are 
to succeed each other in the natural order of their kindred 
relations. ‘This circumstance would lead us much to prefer 
the new edition to the old. The first number was published 
on April 1. 1833, and a sight of it has given us pleasure. 
It contains a preface, in which is sketched an outline of those 
points in the structure of plants which are most relevant in 
determining their natural resemblances and affinities. In suc- 
cession to this, the characters of De Candolle’s first order, 
the Ranunculaceee, are given, and those of the first tribe in 
it, the Clematideze ; then follow the characters of the genus 
Clématis, and pictures and descriptions of four species of it. 


Hooker, W. J., LL.D., &c. &c., King’s Professor of Botany 
in the University of Glasgow: The English Flora of Sir 
J. E. Smith, Class XXIV., Cryptogamia, Vol. V. Or 
Vol. II. of Dr. Hooker’s British Flora, Part I., comprising 
the Mosses, Hepaticee, Lichens, Characeze, and A'lge. 
8vo, 432 pages, in boards. London, 1833. 12s. 


The facilities for acquiring a knowledge of the phaenoga- 
mous plants of Britain have for some time past been sufficiently 


Magazine of Botany. 351 


numerous and accessible, to enable very many of the admirers 
of the vegetable creation to do themselves the pleasure of be- 
coming acquainted with this portion of it. The case has been 
different in relation to the cryptogamic portion of the British 
flora; for the works published on it have hitherto been writ- 
ten in the Latin language, or, if in English, as in the case of 
English Botany, have been too expensive to be generally pos- 
sessed. ‘The present half-volume, happily, now alters this case 
in relation to all of the Cryptogamia except the funguses; and 
the succeeding half-volume in which these are to be described, 
it is stated in the preface to the present half, “ will be pub- 
lished with all the speed consistent with careful execution.” 

On the merits in the details of the execution of the half- 
volume now before me, I will frankly declare myself incom- 
petent to speak; and this, because I have for years past post- 
poned the examination of the plants it describes on the very 
account of the non-existence of such an intelligible introduc- 
tion to an acquaintance with them. ‘ The work then is writ- 
ten intelligibly and clearly?” It is: and I think it is also 
written with a careful regard to accuracy. I may state that I 
have taken a collection of thirty-two named species of moss 
(most kindly given to me by an amiable botanist), and com- 
pared each Pare with the generic and specific characters 
ascribed to the same names in the book, and that they have 
corresponded satisfactorily in every instance. The inference, 
then, is fair, that the mosses are clearly and faithfully de- 
scribed ; and hence the assumption is natural, that the plants 
of the remaining orders are described in like manner. 


Rennie, James, M.A., Professor of Natural History, King’s 
College, London, aided by some of the most eminent 
Botanists of Europe: The Magazine of Botany; the first 
Number containing 8 coloured figures of the most rare and 
valuable specimens of plants and flowers, executed by 
eminent artists, and correctly coloured; also 16 quarto 
pages of closely -printed letterpress, in double columns, 
consisting entirely of original articles. London, 1833. 
1s. a Number. 


This is the fourth Gardener’s Magazine which has been 
commenced since our work appeared, and it may be con- 
sidered as an additional evidence of the interest which the 
public take in gardening subjects. We do not think it ne- 
cessary to give an opinion of the merits of the work. Let 
the public purchase it, and judge for themselves. We can 
only refer them to what we have stated, in a former volume 


352 Floricultural Cabinet. 


(Vol. VII. p.601.), of the first and eldest of our children in this 
way; or suckers, as some might call them, — certainly, not 
offsets. Our endeavour shall be to continue to render our 
own work, what we are confident it has hitherto been, equal, 
if not superior, to the whole of them put together. If any 
reader of these works, who compares them with the Gar- 
dener’s Magazine, thinks otherwise, we shall be extremely 
obliged to him to say so, and to point out in what he thinks 
we are deficient. 


Harrison, Joseph, Conductor : The Flericultural Cabinet, and 
Florists’ Magazine. In monthly Numbers, at 6d. each. 
No. 1. March, 1833. 8vo, 24 pages, and two coloured 
prints. London, Whittaker. 


This is the cheapest book on floriculture which has yet 
been published. One of the prints is a coloured lithograph of 
Levick’s Commander in chief georgina, on which the con- 
ductor remarks, it “ gives a very correct representation of its 
striped crimson flowers: but the plant, in addition, produces 
entire flowers of a rich velvet hue, and others of a fine light 
scarlet ; the whole making a very striking and highly beautiful 
appearance.” ‘The second print exhibits four coloured very 
well executed woodcuts of the following plants: Verdnica 
fruticulosa; V. saxatilis, less faithfully portrayed in its leaves 
and pubescence than it should be; Lobélza speciosa, and 
Hésperis speciosa: these are engraved by O. Jewitt. We 
have very rarely seen the pubescence of plants represented to 
our satisfaction in woodcuts. 

The information supplied in the number is useful, and well 
worth the money. 


Williams, Charles (Author of “ Art in Nature, and Science 
anticipated”): The Vegetable World. 12mo, 218 pages, 
with an engraved Frontispiece, exhibiting, in six compart- 
ments, Fr ae Flowers, Trees, Forests, Teens and Funguses, 
and Grain. London, Westley and Davis, 1833. 


A compilation of facts and notices on plants remarkable 
for their structure, attributes, and extensive usefulness to 
mankind; and it is the most richly stored and best concocted 
compilation on the subject which we have ever seen. Its 
great fault is the trick of making all its information pass 
through the lips of Mr. and Mrs. Elwood, and their son 
Frederick, and daughter Emma. ‘The parents speak only 
pearls, and the children question and animadvert with more 


Various Books. $53 


than suitable sagacity. The author admits here and there 
very instructive discussions on popular subjects, but without 
ever wandering very widely from his subject. ‘Thus, with the 
information on flax and hemp is associated an account of the 
mode in, and extent to, which they are manufactured in this 
and other countries ; and so in the case of many other plants 
and vegetable subjects. ‘The book will be a treasure to boys 
and girls, and may be profitably read by men and women. 


Marshall, Henry, Deputy Inspector General of Army Hospi- 
tals: A Contribution to a Natural and Kconomical History 
of the Coco-nut Tree. Pamphlet 8vo, 30 pages. Edin- 
burgh, Carfrae; London, Longman, 1833. 


Every gardener who delights in tropical plants, and esteems 
the palms, and we hope there is not one who does not, 
should possess this pamphlet. We know not its price, but 
presume it cannot be high. 


Macgillivray W.: The Travels and Researches of Alexander 
von Humboldt; being a condensed Narrative of his Journeys 
in the Kquinoctial Regions of America, and in Asiatic 
Russia; together with Analyses of his more important 
Investigations. With a Portrait of Humboldt, a Map of 
the Orinoco, and five other Engravings. Foolscap 8vo, 
424 pages (forming the tenth volume of the Edinburgh 


Cabinet Library). Edinburgh and London, 1832. 5s. 
Mudie, Robert: Guide to the Observing of Nature. 12mo, 
372 pages. Whittaker and Co., London; Waugh and 


Innes, Edinburgh ; 1832. (Vol. Ixxvii. of Constable's Mis- 
cellany.) 


Some of our young gardening friends occasionally wish to 
buy books for recreative reading. We have named these two, 
because we think them eligible for their purchasing, and 
because each speaks enough on vegetable nature to justify 
the mention of both in this Magazine. 


Doyle, Martin, Author of “ Hints to Small Farmers,” ‘ Ad- 
dress to the Landlords of Ireland,” &c.: Practical Garden- 
ing, clear, simple, and concise, for the Use of all Classes ; 
containing many new and valuable Directions for im- 
proved Culture and early Production. 12mo, 112 pages. 
Dublin, London, and Edinburgh, 1833. 1s. 6d. 


Very good indeed, in relation to the kitchen-garden. What 
we think a fault in it is, that the sowings, &c., directed under 
each month, are not directed for any set portion of the month, 

Vou. IX, — No. 44. AA 


354 Kenrick’s New American Orchardist. 


and the range of thirty-one days is a wide space of time. A 
Second Part, in which the culture of fruits and flowers is to 
be taught, is in preparation, and will soon be published. 


Rennie, James, M.A., Professor of Zoology to King’s 
College, London: Alphabet of Scientific Gardening, for 
the Use of Beginners. 18mo, 120 pages, with cuts. 
London, 1833. Qs. 6d. 


*¢ My subject has two grand divisions: the food of plants, 
and the philosophical principles of garden operations for the 
management of this food.” (p. 3.) 


Kenrick, William: The New American Orchardist; or, an 
Account of the most valuable Varieties of Fruit, adapted 
to Cultivation in the United States, from the Latitude of 
25° to 54°; with the Uses, Modes of cultivating, and the 
Management of them; Remedies for the Maladies to 
which they are subject from noxious Insects and other 
Causes, &c. Also, a brief Description of the most orna- 
mental Forest Trees, Shrubs, Flowers, &c. 8vo, 424 pages. 
Boston, United States; Carter and Co., and Russell and 
Co.; 1833. (Neither the price nor a British publisher 
stated.) 

This will prove a very valuable manual to those in America 
who addict themselves to the cultivation of fruits. It is for 
the Americans what Lindley’s Guide to the Orchard and 
Kitchen-Garden is to the British, except that the present 
work confines itself to fruits. Its contents have been derived 
from considerable practical experience, research, and examin- 
ation, in the subject, by the author and some friends of his; 
but it is still, in good proportion, a compilation from all 
the works which the author could procure on his subject, and 
the later of those published in England have been liberally 
drawn on. ‘The author gives a list of the titles of the works 
he has had recourse to. ‘There is a good deal of patriotism 
in the author’s feeling; and he is anxious to promote the 
passion for, and emulation in, gardening, which are now, in 
America, on all sides, kindling into resultful action. ‘The 
book, too, may prove useful to British gardeners, as a means 
of teaching them the qualities of certain American fruits. 
In the “ Intreduction” are these remarks: — “ In England, 
however, they cannot duly appreciate the value of our native 
fruits, and those of other climates equally favoured with us: 
their high northern latitude forbids it; although they have 
done wonders in counteracting the hostility of their seasons 
and climate. In their vast collection of fruits, which they 


De Candolle’s Physiologie Vévétale. 355 


have congregated from all climates, in their Horticultural 
Society’s Garden, at Chiswick, I find, by the Society’s 
catalogue for 1826, that they have at least fifty varieties of 
the native peaches of America, the selections from the 
extensive native orchards of this fruit, raised in the middle 
and western states for distillation. All these, so fine in our 
climate, so much admired by travellers, are, with but two 
exceptions, rejected as ‘worthless,’ not being adapted to 
their latitude, and not arriving to their full maturity and 
excellence, even on the walls to which their cultivation is 
confined. (See vol. ii. No. 54. of the Pomological Magazine.) 
Other varieties of native fruit, so superior in our own climate, 
are by them almost as little noticed. The apples of America, 
— the fine selections during two centuries, from the innu- 
merable native orchards.” Not one syllable of the above 
may require a qualifying question: we would only, in perfect 
good humour, add an admired couplet from Goldsmith, 
which has now come to mind : — 
“ Such is the patriot’s boast where’er we roam, 
His first best country ever is at home.” 

Another of Mr. Kenrick’s remarks should be quoted: — 
“The temperature of our climate, on our extensive Atlantic 
coast, differs considerably from those parts of Europe and 
of Africa [which are] in corresponding latitudes.” ‘Towards 
the close of his book, the author sketches a list of foreign 
fruits, and foreign trees, ‘which may be cultivated in the 
south-western arid southern states to the lat. of 25°,” and 
adds, ‘* Most of these, however, may flourish in the middle 
states; and a small portion may succeed in the north-western 
and eastern states to the latitude of 43°.” 

The author dedicates his work ‘to the Hon. John 
Lowell, LL. D.,” who has, during the twenty-five years past, 
been a distinguished promoter of gardening and farming in 
America; and in the course of that time has “ extensively 
disseminated many valuable productions — the donations 
from T. A. Knight, Esq. [President of the London Horti- 


cultural Society], and from other sources.” 


FRANCE. 

De Candolle, M. Aug. Pyr.: Physiologie Végétale, ou Expo- 
sition des Forces et des Fonctions Vitales de Végétaux, pour 
ser vir de suite a ’Organographie Végétale, et d’Introduc- 
tion a la Botanique Géographique et “Agricole. 8vo, 3 tom. 
Paris, 1832. 

This excellent work, we hope, will soon be translated. In 


the mean time, we can recommend all gardeners whose mas- 
AA 2 


356 Jacquin’s Monographie complete du Melon. 


ters take in the Poreign Quarterly Review, to borrow it, 
and peruse the very complete and excellent account of De 
Candolle’s work, and epitome of its contents, given in No, xxii. 
for April, 1833. This review is attributed to one of our 
correspondents, Professor Henslow; and it is altogether a 
distinct, clear, and comprehensive view of all that relates to 
what is properly termed vegetable physiology, and its appli- 
cation to gardening and agriculture. Should the work not be 
translated soon, we will give an abstract of those parts of it 
which are more especially interesting to gardeners. 


Jacquin, M., ainé, Membre de plusieurs Sociétés Horticul- 
turales Francaises et Etrangeres: Monographie complete 
du Melon; contenant la culture, la description et le classe- 
ment de toutes les variétés de cette espéce, suivies de celles 
de la Pastéque a chair fondante, avec la figure de chacune 
dessinée et coloriée d’aprés Nature. Pp. 204, planches 33. 
Paris, 1832. 36 francs. 


Sir, The sixth and concluding number of the above work 
having at length come to hand, I proceed, according to your 
desire, to render you some account of its contents. In so 
doing, I shall, of course, view it only in relation to this country. 
As regards France, it is, without doubt, an indispensable vade 
mecum ; being, as a whole, the most accurate, most complete, 
and best digested treatise on the subject ever offered to the 
horticulturists of that kingdom. ‘The author himself invites 
a comparison with his precursors, in giving also a list of the 
works antecedent to his own, and whose authors he accuses, 
‘en masse,” of plagiarism one from the other in succession. 
He has, however, omitted to cite the last edition, by no means 
a mere reprint, in 1828, of Calvel’s work, heretofore the 
best: Manuel de 1 Amateur de Melons (with figures), par 
Alexandre Martin (probably a fictitious name), Paris, 1827; 
this is a compilation throughout: and, lastly, Les deux Meé- 
moires sur les Cucurbitacées, par M. Sageret; a work per- 
fectly original, and containing details and results of number- 
‘less personal experiments, which ought not to have been 
omitted in the list, nor neglected in the composition of the 
present work. ‘This octogenarian experimentalist, who has 
spent his life in his garden, and has now lost his eyesight in 
the service, commenced the culture of melons, with the view 
of comparing the different varieties, classing and enumerating 
them ; intending to accompany their description by instruc- 
tions for cultivation, drawn from a long and diversified 
experience: but, seduced by the more alluring study of the 
phenomena attendant on their hybridisation, he was pre- 


Jacquin's Monographie complete du Melon. 357 


vented, ere the completion of his project, from further prose- 
cuting it, by the failure of his sight. ‘To give some notion of 
how difficult a task it was he had undertaken, I need only 
remark, that he confesses, in the second of his publications, 
which, together, contain as much matter as the work before 
us, ‘that he was still unable to give a complete treatise on 
the melon :” this, too, after an experience of six years, during 
which, with the advantage of his long practised habits of 
observation, he had applied himself closely to its culture, in 
some seasons fruiting from two to three hundred plants.* 

M. Jacquin has divided his work into two parts, culture 
and description ; and each of these is subdivided into sections 
and divisions. He sets out by deprecating the bad policy of 
gentlemen in refusing to their gardeners sufficient means to 
enable them successfully to cultivate the melon; promising to 
convince them, in the sequel, that they may procure them at 
less expense than if they resorted to the market: he then 
proceeds to point out the different kinds of fermenting 
matter that may be made available, enumerating a long list 
of heterogeneous substances, with instructions for preparing 
them for use. Division 2. treats of composts. In Division 
3. are given minute directions for the construction of frames 
(which, it may be remarked, are, even in the north of France, 
employed to obtain early crops, only large bell and hand 
glasses being found sufficient in the later season). His es- 
timate of a two-light frame, each sash 4 feet square, is 20 
francs 10 centimes (about equal to 16s.), provided the glazing 
is done by the gardener. He would employ, for the boards of 
the frame, the planking of broken-up vessels. Some useful 
hints may, indeed, be gathered from this part, by those 
desirous of going the cheapest way to work.+ Bell and 
hand glasses, and mats for shading and protection, are then 
fully described. Division 5., situation and arrangement of 
the melon ground. Section 2. commences with directions, 
still entering into the most minute details, for the formation of 
beds for frames and bell glasses, as likewise for those sunk in 
the ground, to be protected also by bell glasses, and showing 
the attentions necessary in the culture under each circum- 
stance: and these are the only modes of applying the aid 


* M. Sageret is also the author of many occasional papers published in 
different Annales, and of a work entitled Pomologie Physiologique, which I 
would recommend to the notice of all who are interested in the amelior- 
ation of our fruits in general. 

+ Mr. Paxton gives 3/. 11s. 3d. as the price, in this country, of a new 
frame, with two lights, each 6 ft. by 3 ft. 

AAS 


358 Jacquin’s Monographie complete du Melon. 


of artificial heat made mention of, no notice occurring 
throughout of pits heated either by fermentable matter, hot 
alr, water, or steam. 

In sowing in December, for early spring crops, he recom- 
wends that the use of pots be dispensed with, and the seeds 
placed at two or three inches’ distance in the soil of a bed 
made for the purpose, to be afterwards transplanted when 
the second leaf has appeared, into pots, one plant in each, a 
fresh bed having been previously prepared to receive them. 
The plant he advises to be buried up to the cotyledons, a 
practice which is, or, if not, should be, generally adopted here; 
they are turned out of these pots without disturbing the 
roots, to be transplanted in their final destination. ‘This 
mode of procedure is at least worthy of a trial: M. Jacquin 
attributes to it the merit of saving trouble, less liability to be 
affected by cold, and the avoidance of the matting and 
entangling of the roots: on the other hand, it may be ques- 
tioned whether these advantages are not counterbalanced by 
the necessity for a more precise regulation of the heat of the 
bed, which, he says, should not exceed 20° to 25° (equal to 
about 78° to 88° of Fahrenheit); whereas, in pots, such care, is” 
needless, as they may be more or less immersed, accor ding’ to 
the temperature of the soil. Pruning, setting hes fe uit, sub- 
sequent care, watering, preserving the cane, with ee best 
age to sow them considered, cuttings, &c., complete the 2d 
division, appertaining to early crops under frames. 

The course of pruning which our author most approves of 
is this: — When the plant has four leaves, exclusive of the 
cotyledons, it is cut down to two: the branches proceeding 
from their axils, having just unfolded the third leaf, are again 
cut down to two; and, if these again fail to show fruit blos- 
soms, the same is repeated, when they will invariably do so. 
The legitimate object of pruning, where early fruit is desired, 
consists in as speedily as possible establishing a certain 
degree of ramification sufficiently removed from the main 
stem to insure the emission of fruit blossoms, which, in the 
melon, usually occurs on the second from the parent stem, 
_but always on the third, and that mode is preferable by which 
this may be effected uh the least check to the plant. Tried 
by this test, M. Jacquin would appéar to have adopted the 
happy medium ; and his practice may be followed with safety. 
Of various modes that I have made trial of, I have found one 
nearly approaching this to be the most successful, though 
reserving a final judgment till I have concluded my expe- 
riments. I differ from him in his preference of seed three or 
more years old: I prefer it new, because the very vigour, 


Jacquin’s Monographie complete du Melon. 359 


which is usually complained of, will, by the aid of judicious 
pruning, enable the plants to bear fruit as soon as that from 
older seed, while the fruit itself is finer. At a future time I 
purpose to enlarge on this and other points, but at present it 
would be to diverge too far from my course, and would 
occupy your pages too largely. 

The necessity of absolutely preventing the possible access 
of others, in order to preserve a valued variety unmixed, is 
not sufficiently insisted on; a fault which is common to every 
work on the subject. It is not enough, to comply with the 
admonition here given, to select a fruit of which to preserve 
the seed, that may happen to be the most perfect type of the 
variety; it is quite essential, also, that the blossom of that 
fruit should have been fecundated solely by the pollen of its 
own kind. ‘To effect this, I would recommend, for general 
adoption, a practice I have myself found very useful, indeed 
indispensable, where many different sorts are grown at the 
same time; it is this: to cover with thin gauze, previously to 
their expansion, two, three, or more blossoms that appear 
healthy and likely to set. When in bloom, the anther of a 
male blossom, the petals being removed, should be applied to 
the stigma of the female, and allowed to remain there; the 
gauze should not be taken off until the flower is quite 
withered, and a peg with a label should be stuck near, to 
mark the fruit so impregnated. ‘The gauze should, in like 
manner, be employed when it is desired to effect any par- 
ticular hybridisation. It appears to me that M. Jacquin has 
attributed that to climate and season which is, in fact, due, in 
most instances, to intermixture by fecundation, when he 
ascribes to that cause the change from green to red flesh, 
the accession of netting, of odour, &c. 

Division 3. is occupied by details on the care necessary for 
melons, under bell or hand glasses, planted on ‘ couches 
sourdes;” that is, holes dug in the ground, filled with 
manure, and covered with good earth, called, I believe, by 
our gardeners, blind beds; and also the modes of procedure 
adopted at Honfleur, Lisieux, Lyons, and different parts of 
France, all described by practical cultivators resident in the 
various places. Division 4. culture entirely in the open air. 
Division 5. is a recapitulation of the most important points : 
contains observations on the grafting of the melon (a curious 
but troublesome process, which I have found unattended by 
any equivalent advantages), and concludes by an estimate of the 
cost of each melon, either of the spring or summer crop, when, 
as the reward of so much labour and attention, it at length, in 
all its beauty and fragrance, graces the Amphytrion’s table. 

AA 4 


360 Poiteau and Vilmorin’s Bon Jardinier. 


Division 6. treats of the diseases incident to the melon 
plants, and of the insects to the ravages of which they are 
liable: this is followed by a succinct account of the culture of 
the water melon (Cucirbita Cztrillus). 

We now come to the second part of the work; and this is 
occupied by the history, classification, and description. ‘To 
enter on the two former heads would lead me to an un- 
warrantable and, perhaps, uninteresting length: suffice it to 
say, that under the latter head are included numerous syno- 
nymes; the length of the fruit from which the figure that 
accompanies it was taken; the proportion of that figure to the 
model fruit; the form, colour, with every other minute par- 
ticular ; comparative qualities for the table; and merits, as 
regards precocity and fecundity. ‘The list contains eighty- 
eight different varieties, with as many coloured figures, each 
one being accompanied by the representation of a slice of the 
fruit, to indicate the colour and thickness of the flesh and 
rind: an example is also given of the branch of an individual 
variety in each class, displaying the foliage, blossoms, and 
manner of growth. The figures, although not highly finished, 
are sufficiently so to admit the recognition of any variety by 
their aid; at least, so I have found, in those which I have 
previously known. In conclusion, I may state that these 
eighty-eight by no means include all the varieties known to 
us: of Persian there are not more than three or four; and I 
myself possess others far more widely different from any of 
these, than many of them are from each other. 

The work is, throughout, founded on practical experience ; 
and though containing little or nothing that is strzkingly new 
to an English horticulturist, yet its details are so compre- 
hensive and at the same time so minute, so clear and yet so 
free from useless repetitions, that, joined with the description 
of modes of culture which, however inapplicable to our 
climate, are yet interesting, and may afford useful hints for 
modifications of our own practice, and the plates, a feature 
wanting to every work on the subject in our language, render 
the work, I think, one not unworthy of the attention of those 
who are amateurs of the culture of the melon. 

I have only farther to add, that, possessing seeds of all, 
(with a very few exceptions) of the varieties enumerated in M. 
Jacquin’s work, they are, any of them, Sir, at your service. 
Iam, Sir, yours, &c. — J. C.K. 


Poiteau, A. (Rédacteur principal), et Vilmorin, M.: Le Bon 
Jardinier, Almanach pour l’Année 1833: contenant les 
principes généraux de culture ; Vindication, mois par mois, 


Baumann’s Camellia de Bollwiller. 361 


des travaux a faire dans les jardins; la description, V’his- 
toire, et la culture de toutes les plants potagéres, écono- 
miques, ou employées dans les arts; de celles propres 
aux fourrages ; des arbres fruitiers; des ognons et plantes 
a fleurs; des arbres, arbrisseaux, et arbustes, utiles ou 
d’agrément, disposés selon la méthode du Jardin du Roi: 
suivi d’un vocabulaire des termes de jardinage et de bo- 
tanique; d’un jardin des plantes médicinales; d’un tableau 
des végétaux groupés d’aprés la place qu’ils doivent oc- 
cuper dans les parterres, bosquets, &c.; et accompagné 
d’une Revue Horticole, avec quatre planches gravées. 8vo. 
1088 pages. Paris, Audot, 1833. 


The volume for this year, of this excellent work, is replete 
with valuable information ; and, if the bulk and consequent 
price of the volume do not prevent its being generally pur- 
chased throughout France, it must there much contribute to 
diffuse scientific views of vegetable nature; for, to the credit 
of its compilers, it is not a book of mere empirical pre- 
scriptions, but one in which are given able abstracts of the 
‘¢ principes généraux du jardinage,” and of the “ notions 
danatomie et de physiologie végétale,” &c. The editors 
speak in high terms of M. Noisette’s Jardin Fruitier, and 
have derived much of the information which they furnish on 
various kinds of fruit from its pages. 

The Revue Horticole was published by the same editors in 
the spring of 1829, and is continued at rather short intervals. 
Its office is to gather up and register information for the 
annual enrichment of Le Bon Jardinier, and to supply early 
information of new works on, and discoveries and improve- 
ments in, horticulture. ‘The number of the Revue Horticole, 
which accompanies the present volume of Le Bon Jardinier, 
consists of sixty pages, which are occupied with notices of 
new works; new kinds of vegetables brought into, and old 
kinds discarded from, cultivation; newly invented garden 
tools; the meetings and proceedings of societies connected 
with horticulture, and other matter; all which, together, must 
render the Revue Horticole a welcome messenger to every 
one who has an affection for gardening. 


Baumann, Charles A., and N.: Les Camellia de Bollwiller. 
Monographie dédiée a M. le Professeur A. P. De Can- 
dolle. In 4to parts; each containing twelve lithographed 
figures, coloured from nature by the authors. Bollwiller. 


The second and third numbers of this work have been 
sent tous. ‘The second is dated 1829, the third 1832; and 


362 Various Books. 


from these dates we infer that the work is prosecuted as the 
leisure and facilities of the authors render convenient. 

The camellias are gorgeously ornamental plants; and their 
large, thick, dark green, glossy leaves, and broad orbicular 
blossoms, usually composed of large petals full of a high 
colour, render them in an especial manner, as we presume, 
satisfactory objects from which to produce beautiful pictures. 
This result has been effected in the numbers before us, the 
lithographs of which have been executed by MM. Engelmann 
and Co., of Mulhouse, Haut Rhin. ‘The descriptions are in 
German. Chandler and Booth’s Illustrations of the Ca- 
mellzée, so often noticed in this Magazine, form an equivalent 
work in the English language. 


Various Contributors: VL’? Agronome, Journal Mensuel d’ Agri- 
culture, d’Horticulture, d’Economie Domestique, d’Kco- 
nomie Rurale, Forestiére, &c. A cing francs par an (france 
de port), et un franc de plus pour les pays étrangers. 
Publié par le Comité central d’Agriculture Francaise, a 
Paris, et paraissant en un livraison de deux feuilles ou 
trente-deux pages grand in 8vo, le 15 de chaque mois, aux 
Bureaux du Comité central d’Agriculture, rue Choiseul. 
No. 2. 1833, Janvier, Février, Mars, Avril. 


This monthly journal of agriculture, &c., was begun with 
the year, and in the four numbers which we have received 
are contained some very interesting and useful papers. 


GERMANY. 


Verhandlungen der k. k. Landwirthschafts- Gesellschaft in Wien, 
und Auffake vermischten Okonomischen Inhaltes, &c. 
Transactions of the Imperial and Royal Agricultural So- 
ciety of Vienna, &c. Vienna, 1832. New series. Vol. I. 
Part I. 8vo. 


The preceding volumes of these Transactions were printed 
in 4to, and of course their circulation must have been very 
limited. The Society have now taken the wiser part of 
publishing them in 8vo, by which means their chances of 
doing good are necessarily greatly increased. ‘The part before 
us is occupied chiefly with farming subjects, with the excep- 
tion of a paper on Artesian wells, by Baron Jacquin; and 
some remarks on insects which attack trees, by M. Binder, 
one of the imperial foresters. Beet-root sugar, ryegrass, 
draining, and various extracts from Mathieu de Dombasle’s 
works, fill up the remainder. 


363 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. 1. Floricultural and Botanical Notices of new Plants, and of 
old Plants of Interest, supplementary to the latest Editions of the 
“ Encyclopedia of Plants,” and of the “ Hortus Britannicus.” 


Curtis’s Botanical Magazine ; each monthly Number containing eight plates ; 
3s. 6d. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Hookers King’s Professor of 
Botany in the University of Glasgow. 

Fidwards’s Botanical Register; each monthly Number containing eight 
plates ; 4s. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by John Lindley, F.R.S., Pro- 
fessor of Botany in the London University. 

Sweet's British Flower-Garden; each monthly Number containing four 
plates; 3s. coloured, 2s. 3d. plain. Edited by David Don, Esq., Libra- 
rian to the Linnzan Society. 

Loddiges’s Botanical Cabinet ; each monthly Number containing ten plates ; 
5s. coloured, 2s. 6d. partly coloured. Edited by Messrs. Loddiges. 


DicoTyLEDONOUS PoLYPETALOUS PLANTS. 


III. Ranunculacee § spirie. 


1641. HELLE/BORUS 14659. 
vernalis D. Don spring-flowering Y A or 4f W _ Austria 1596. D co Sw.fl.gar.2.s.186 


“ Of the three varieties of the Christmas rose, which we have observed 
in the gardens, the one now figured is, we think, entitled to the preference, 
as being less encumbered by foliage, and having the blossoms at least a 
third larger, and of a clearer colour; it flowers six or eight weeks later 
than the common kind,” and farther differs in the form of the segments of 
its leaves. Drawn from the botanic garden, Chelsea. (British Flower- 
Garden, April.) 

X. Fumariacee. 


2047. CORYDA‘LIS. 
181876 longiflira Pers. long-flowered % <y or Zap:my Pa.Ro Altaicmtns. 1832, Op1 Bot. mag. 3239 


Received from Berlin, in 1832, at the Edinburgh botanic garden ; 
whence it is to be hoped this pretty addition to hardy spring-flowering 
plants will soon be distributed to other gardens. In general appearance 
it resembles a good deal the common yet lovely Corydalis bulbésa. (Bot. 
Mag., April.) 

XLVII. Onagrarie § Ondgree. 


1185. CLA/RKIA. 
10047a élegans Doug. elegant Opr2jlo RoP California 1832, Ss. Bot. reg. 1575 


This is very distinct from the Clarkia pulchélla, and much less orna- 
mental. It is, however, sufficiently pretty and interesting to be eligible to 
the gardens of all those who have pleasure in observing every instance of 
the rich diversity of form and hue which obtains in the vegetable world ; 
but, by those who only regard plants in proportion to their capability of 
supplying rich masses of gaudy colouring, it will not be esteemed. 
C. elegans “was raised last year in the garden of the Horticultural Society, 
and blossomed in the open air from July to October.” (Bot. Reg., April.) 
We saw part of a bed of it there in flower in September, 1832. 


364 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


LI. Lodsez. 


2193. LOA‘S A. 
Alba D. Don white-flowered © or 1 jl.o WwW Chile 1831. Sco Sw.fl.gar.2.s,192 


“ This pretty species of Lodsa was introduced by Mr. Hugh Cuming. 
It is of easy culture, and will be found to thrive luxuriantly in the open 
border during summer, continuing to send forth its showy blossoms for 
several months in succession.” (The British Flower-Garden, May.) 

LXIV. Santalaceze. Sdntalum album, the sandal-wood tree, is figured 
in the Botanical Magazine for May, t. 3235., where an interesting descrip- 
tion of the tree, and of the manner in which sandal wood is prepared, is 
given. In the Magazine of Natural History, for April, 1832 (Vol. V. 
p- 255.), is a long communication on the same subject. 

LXV. Thymelee. 


87. PIMELE*A. 
800a hispida R. Br. hispid-flwd. %#% \ Jel2jn' Bh S.W.N.Holl. 1830. C s.p Bot. reg. 1578 


A very elegant ornament of the green-house, raised by Mr. Knight from 
Mr. Baxter’s rich collection of seeds ; we saw it in bloom at Mr. Knight’s 
last year. “ It is superior in beauty to P. rosea, from which it is readily 
known by its broader leaves, larger flower heads, and especially by the 
long stiffish hairs that close the base of the calyx [corolla, as some would 
call it] densely, and apex sparingly, so as to give the flowers the aspect of 
delicate feathers. These hairs are long, uninterrupted, very transparent 
tubes, with a considerable number of minute particles within their cavity ; 
they are doubtless extremely well adapted to show distinctly that curious 
motion in the fluids of plants which forms so singular a species of cir- 
culation in their system, and which seems to be universal in hairs, so long 
as they are alive.” (Bot. Reg., April.) ; 

There is no difficulty either in cultivating this species, or in striking it 
from cuttings, if attention be paid to the following circumstances : — 

[ Hints by Dr. Lindley on the Culture of Australian Plants.| “ All 
plants from the southern coast of New Holland, or from Van Diemen’s 
Land, naturally enjoy a climate which in the winter season is about as 
cold as the winters of the south of France: they are found very much in 
dry exposed situations ; and many of them, especially the pimeleas, are 
physically incapable of enduring cold and moisture together, although the 
former by itself, if above a certain amount, is not prejudicial to them. 
They, therefore, should be kept in winter in a cool airy place, where a 
perfect command of ventilation is possessed ; and the temperature should 
not be allowed to rise much above 40° or 45° in the winter months. 
Upon this plan Mr. Knight manages the young plants obtained from the 
collections formed by Mr. Baxter, and with such success that no doubt 
can be entertained of its excellence.” 

29126. sylvéstris R. Br. wood % Jel 2 jn Bh N. Holl. 1830. C lp Bot. reg. 1582 

“A very pretty green-house species, easily increased by cuttings. 
Figured from the nursery of Mr. Knight, Chelsea, who raised it from 
seeds collected by Mr. Baxter. This species has a smooth perianth, and 
is less delicate and difficult to preserve in health and growth than some 
species. (Bot. Reg., May.) 

LXXIII. Rosacee § Potentillea. 


1528. POTENTI’LLA. 
13645a glanduldsa Lindl. glandulose yY A culau Y California 1830? D co Bot. reg. 1583 


A hardy perennial species, lately received from Mr. Douglas: it is 
easily increased by the division of its roots. It is botanically allied to 
P. viscosa. (Bot. Reg., May.) 

LXXV. Amygdalee. 


1499. PE/RSICA (Amygdalus Pérsica L.) 12846 vulgaris Mz. 
4. alba Lindl. white SE or @, ap.my Ww ove oor B11 Bot, reg, 1586 


1951. 


supplementary to Enc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 365 


** The white peach is a hardy ornamental shrub, with the habit of an 
almond. Its fruit has little merit.’ (Bot. Reg., May, where are pre- 
sented some lengthened and relevant. remarks on the causes of the 
variations in colour, which plants not rarely exhibit.) 

LXXVII. Legumindse § Sophoree. 


GOMPHOLO‘BIUM. 


10527a venuldsum Lindd. veiny-lvd.  \_Jor 12 jlaau Y S.of N. Holl. 1830. C s.p Bot. reg. 1574 


1262. 


This is a delicate little shrub, raised by Mr. Knight, of the King’s 
Road, from seeds collected by Mr. Baxter. The rich yellow blossoms 
appear to be produced singly at the tip of as many branches; each blos- 
som in outline is as large as a shilling. The south of New Holland seems 
to abound as much in Gompholobia as the south of Europe in Lathyri, 
for almost every new collection yields additional species of the genus. 
(Bot. Reg. April.) 

PULTEN EA. 


10591la rosmarinifdlia Lind?. Rosemary-lvd. #% |_]or 2 ap.jn Y N. Holl. 1824. Cs.Jp_ Bot. reg. 1584 


1985. 


2837. 


2 


Nee ees Hort. Brit., p. 164, It is closely allied to P. stipularis; as is also P. mucronata, 
0. 29165. 

A pretty species found on the south coast of New Holland by Mr. 
Baxter, and was raised in the Clapton Nursery (Messrs. Lowe and Co.), 
where the drawing for the figure published was made. (Bot. Reg., May.) 


Leguminise ') Phaseolee. ’ 
LUPYNUS. 
élegans Hum. & Kth. elegant © or 2 jn V.Ro Mexico 1831. S sl Bot. reg. 1581 


“* Of all the annual lupines this is by far the handsomest : it even rivals 
the best of the perennial species. It ‘flowers in the open air, most 
abundantly, in June. Its seeds are ripened in tolerable quantity, and by 
them it is increased.” (Bot. Reg., May.) 

Erythrina velutina Lowe is figured in the Botanical Magazine for April, 
t. 3227. It is a noble species, growing in Madeira, and not yet introduced 
to Britain; it is a tree about 30 ft. high, with a cylindrical straight 
trunk, 7 or 8 in. in diameter, unbranched, in the single individual observed, 
to the height of 12 ft. or more, Branches spreading, forming an irregular 
spreading head of fine densely clustered bright green leaves, which, in 
Madeira, are deciduous, and come out at the same time, but on different 
branches. The clusters of blossoms are a foot long, and numerously 
produced. Flowers very conspicuous, large and handsome, the standard 
from 14 to 2 in. long and broad, and of the colour of red lead, approach- 
ing to vermilion. The plant is believed to have been imported into 
Madeira, where it is extremely rare. 

Erythrina poianthes is figured in the Botanical Magazine for May, 
t. 3234. This splendidly blossomed Asiatic tree is “not an unfrequent 
inmate of the gardens of Madeira,” where it is “a low tree, 15 ft. to 20 ft. 
high, with the trunk and branches thick in proportion, the trunk being 
sometimes 4: ft. in circumference.” The branchlets are tipped from April 
to June with a spike, finally a foot long, of flowers of a most brilliant ver- 
milion scarlet colour, which are unaccompanied, for the most of the time, 
with a single leaf, and thus present a most singular and beautiful appear- 
ance. The leaves, when produced, are numerous, large, and handsome. 
“ Besides the singularity and beauty of the various species of Erythrina, 
the facility with which they are propagated is no small recommendation. 
Every branch, however rudely broken off and carelessly stuck in the 
ground, will readily take root and grow.’ (Bot. Mag., May.) 

Leguminose § Minosee. 


ACA‘CIA 24645 decipiens. 
premoérsa Grah. bitten-lud. #% |_Jor 3 mr.jn Y N. Holl 1830. C s.lp 


Raised by Mr. Knight from seeds collected by Mr. Baxter. Dr. Gra- 
ham, who received it from Mr. Knight in 1831, describes it in detail, in 


2649, 


1178. 


366 HMoricultural and Botanical Notices, 


Jameson’s Journal for April, 1833, and cannot consider it more than a 
variety of A. decipiens, differing a little in the shape of its leaves, in its 
paler flowers, and other minuter points. “ It flowered very freely in the 
green-house with the usual treatment of New Holland acacias.” 

CXIII. Anacardidcee. 


DUVAU’A. 
latifolia Gil. broad-lvd. © Jor 20 jnjl Ysh Chile 1830. C1p Bot. reg. 1580 
depéndens y Hook, Bot. Mis. 3. 176. 


In this country an evergreen shrub, about as hardy as a myrtle; seeds 
of it are often imported from Chile. Its foliage is pleasing, and when 
bruised effuses copiously a strong odour of turpentine. For a notice of 
an interesting phenomenon which this-species and the others of the genus 
display, see p.377. (Bot. Reg., May.) 


DicotyLeponous MonopeTALous PLuantTs. 
CLXX. Ericee § vere. 
ERICA. 


9398a penicillata Sal. pencilled ##, Jor 2 var.sea. Ro C.G.H. 1792. Cs.p Bot. cab. 1918 


504. 


2329, 


Already in Hort. Brit., as No. 9937., but without an indication of its 
affinity, or of afigure of it. Raised in 1792, afterwards lost for many years, 
but again raised from Cape seeds in 1829. “ It flowers at various sea- 
sons. It is exceedingly difficult to strike by cuttings ; consequently, if it 
does not ripen its seeds, which is very unlikely, will probably be soon 
again lost.” (Bot. Cab., April.) 

CLXXI. Epacridee. 


E/PACRIS. 
campanulata B.C. bell-flwd. # jor 3f.mr Dp.Bh N. Holl. 1830. C s.p Bot. cab. 1925 


“ We raised this elegant plant from New Holland seeds in 1830. It 
flowered in February and March, 1833, and, we think, does not yield in 
beauty to any of this fine family.” (Bot. Cab., May.) 

Acrétriche ovalifolia is figured in Loddiges’s Botanical Cabinet for May, 
t. 1930., where the following remark, and others, are offered on it: — “ At 
first sight the flowers of this curious plant appear so minute as to excite 
little interest, but when we avail ourselves of the help of a magnifying 
glass, they are found to be exceedingly beautiful in the form and arrange- 
ment of their parts.” 

CLXXXVI. Compésite § Vernoniacer. 


BA/CCHARIS. 
alata (H. ber.) winged-stemmed %\Jcud5d Pa. Y nee 1829. SlLp 
The male sex. 


* We received this plant, under the name we have adopted, from the 
Berlin garden, but without any statements of its native country. It 
flowered freely in the green-house in December, 1832, but is curious rather 
than ornamental.” (Dr. Graham in Jameson’s Journal for April, 1833.) 

Composite § Astéeree. 

STEN A/CTIS. (“* Apparently from stenazd, to sigh: if so, the application is unknown to us. 
Could the author [Cassini] of the name have had in view what his countrywomen call couleur 
de soupir ?”? — Lindley. Is it not rather from stené, narrow, and aktin, a sunbeam; from the 
sun-like figure of the expanded capitulum, and its numerous rays being quite narrow ? — J. D.] 

specidsa Lindl. showy-jlwd. yy A or 2 jl.o P California 1831. D co Bot. reg. 1577 
Apparently a very estimable addition to the list of hardy, showy, freely 

growing perennial herbaceous plants, sent from California to the Horticul- 
tural Society by Mr. Douglas. According to the figure, each stem is 
terminated by about four stalked flowers (capitulums in botanic language), 
each the size of a crown piece, or nearly so, and consisting of an itensely 
yellow disk surrounded by about 120 long, narrow, purple rays. “ It is 
very showy, and flowers from July to October. It increases freely by the 
parting its roots; and it also produces seeds abundantly. Although a 
perennial, it may also be treated as an annual; for seedlings flower early 


supplementary to Enc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 367 


enough the very first year to ripen their seeds. It will grow in ann com- 
mon ‘garden soil, and seems to require no care in its cultivation. A bed 
of it thickly planted i is very pretty.” (Bot. Reg., April.) 

CXC. Cinchonacez. Luculia gratissima is fioured i in the Botanical Ca- 
binet for April, t.1919. This shr ub has fine large leaves, and these, with its 
large pink very fragrant blossoms, produced in rounded panicles, render 
it very beautiful and ornamental. “ Our plant flowered in September. 
It is difficult of cultivation; the stove being too close for it, and the 
green-house too cold. It may be increased by cuttings or layers, and 
should be potted in loam and peat soil.” 

CXCI. Cornee. Dec. 


40la BENTHA‘*MT/4 Lindl. (George fentham, Secretary of the London Horticultural Society.) 
4.1 1— 


535, 


65. 


fragifera Lindl. strawberry-fruited a, ae 10su Ysh E. Indies 1825. Lco Bot. reg. 1579 

A valuable addition to our collection of hardy shrubs. It is a very 
handsome evergreen, flowering in great profusion during summer, and 
producing an abundance of large globular reddish fruit in autumn. The 
leaves are from 2in, to 3in. long, 1in. broad in their widest part, and 
tapered to each end. The flowers are terminal, congregated into globular 
heads, and surrounded by an involucre 2in. across when expanded, and 
composed of four yellowish-coloured parts resembling petals. The flowers 
themselves are greenish, small, and inconspicuous. “The fruit, when ripe, 
is of a reddish colour, a good “deal resembling that of the mulberry, but 
exceeding it considerably in size. The flesh is yellowish white, rather 
insipid, but not unpleasant, although a little bitter to the taste. “ The 
plant seems to flower extremely well in common garden soil, and may be 
increased with facility either by seeds or layers.” This shrub flowered 
and fruited last year, for the first time in Europe, at the seat of Sir 
C. Lemon, Carclew, Cornwall, whose gardener, Mr. Booth, contributed 
the drawing and description published. The plant was first raised in 1825, 
in the garden of J. H. Tremayne, Esq., Heligan, Cornwall, from seed 
received from Mr. Tremayne’s relation, Sir Anthony Buller, during his 
residence in the East Indies. Dr. Wallich has twice published this plant 
by the name of Cérnus capitata. Dr. Lindley remarks that “ it differs 
essentially from Cornus both in flower and fruit. Whether or not Cornus 
florida, which agrees with it in habit, is also a species of Benthamia, our 
materials do not enable us to determine.” (Bot. Reg., May.) 

CXCVI. Apocinee. 


WRIGHTYIA. [Bot. cab. 1929 
pubéscens B.C. downy #*#%({[jcu4?f.mr. Gsh.Y Indian Islands, N. Holl. ... C lp 


“ This is a native of the Indian islands, and also of the tropical parts of 
New Holland. It is a small shrub, with loose branches, and requires the 
protection of the stove.” (Bot. Cab., May.) 

CCXI. Scrophuldrine. § Anther-beari ing stamens two. 


CALCEOLA‘RIA 28695 Herbertiana. 
2 parviflora Lindl. small-flwd. #  L_Jor2my Y Valparaiso 1832, C p.s. Bot. reg. 1576 


A kind possessing some beauty, though less than others of the genus. 
“ From the seeds brought home by Mr. Cuming the specimen was raised 
from which our figure was taken, in the garden of the Comte de Vandes, 
in May, 1832. It requires an open border in a dry sheltered place in the 
summer, and a well-ventilated green-house in winter.” (Bot. Reg., April.) 


MonocotyLeponous PLants. 


CCXXXVIII. Amarylitdee. 


HERMIONE. [Sw.fl.gar.2.s.191 
aperticorina Haw. spreading orange-crowned ¥§ A orlap Y.O N. Africa Or.l 


An ornamental kind of polyanthus narcissus, closely related to the 


2532, 


2537. 


2554. 


368 Retrospective Criticism. 


Hermione cupularis, which is Mr. Haworth’s name for the soleil d’or of the 
gardens. (The British Flower-Garden, May.) 

Cobargia falva (already noticed in our Vol. VIII. p. 350.) is figured in 
Curtis’s Bot. Mag. for March, t. 322., where it is observed “ that a tem- 
perature of 45° seems most favourable to its blossoming in perfection.” 

CCXXXIX. Ividee. Tis reticulata Bied. is figured in Sweet’s British 
Flower-Garden for May, t. 189., from the collection of Messrs. Whitley, 
Brames, and Milne, of the Fulham Nursery, “where it blossomed early in 
March last, and, we believe, it exists at present in no other collection.” 
This rare, elegant, and comparatively diminutive species has four-cornered 
leaves like Z. tuberosa. (The British Flower-Garden, May.) 

CCXL. Orchidee § Vandee. 

ZYGOPE/TALUM. [1993 
stenochilum B.C. narrow-lipped € (jor? 0 W.Y.spot Brazil 1828. D lt.potsh Bot. cab. 

“ We received this fine plant in 1828, from Mr. Warre, who discovered 
it, and sent it home from Brazil. The blossoms are of long duration, like 
those of the other species of this beautiful genus, which appear to be 
many, differing slightly from each other, but all very beautiful. (Bot. 
Cab., May.) 

MAXILLA‘RIA. [Bot. cab, 1914 
punctata B.C. spotted-sepaled €@[A)fra ind W.spot Brazil 1828? D lt. moss, potsh 

“Its flowers possess a very delicate and agreeable fragrance. It should 
be potted in vegetable earth, with moss and pieces of broken pot inter- 
mixed.” The flowers are pretty, their segments white, sprinkled with 
pink spots. (Bot. Cab., April.) 

Orchidee § Epidéndree. 
EPIDE/NDRUM (A. bulbdsa). 
pygme‘um Hook. pygmy €«([A)cu 3ja GW _ Brazil 1831. Dpr.w Bot. mag. 3233 

Like every created object, interesting when examined; but this is not 
obviously ornamental. (Bot. Mag., April.) 

CCXLI. Scitaminee. 

2. MARA/NT4 47 bicolor. 
2minor B.C. smaller y (jor 3 f.m. Ww S. America 1828? Dpr.l Bot. cab. 1924 
“ It is a neat little stove plant, not growing much more than 6 in. high. 
The leaves are very richly and beautifully tinted, and the simple flowers 
are produced in February and March. It should be potted in rich loam, 
and will increase freely by separating the roots.” (Bot. Cab., May.) 


Art. II. Retrospective Criticism. 


CorrecTIons. — In p. 82. line 3. for “ Part I.” read “ Part IL” In 
p. 243. lme 1. for “S. B.W.> read “J. B. W.7 

The Lists of Plants in the Accounts of Provincial Nurseries to be supplied 
by the Parties possessing the Plants.— Sir, I think that these lists do not 
deserve a place in your valuable pages, on the ground of public usefulness, 
unless they contain plants that are rare, difficult to be procured, and 
unless all those enumerated are not only possessed by the party contribut- 
ing the list, but possessed by them in sufficient quantity for sale. Such 
lists, too, in every case, would appear with a better face if they came 
directly and professedly from the interested party, as their so doing would 
cast the responsibility for their accuracy on this party. They should by 
no means be inserted on the doubtful authority of a borrowed name. It 
is even possible that in the list of rarer plants in the nursery of Messrs. 
R. Jeffries and Sons, Ipswich, inserted p. 102., that Messrs. R. Jeffries 
and Sons do not hold themselves responsible for it, as, by the signature, it 


Retrospective Criticism. 369 


stands forth as the production of Mr. Smith, who is gardener to the land- 
lord of Messrs. R. Jeffries and Sons. In this case, however, | may 
venture my suspicion that Mr. Smith’s name is insufficient to veil the real 
actor, Mr. Smith being a man not professing any acquaintance with plants, 
although a very creditable kitchen-gardener. In the wish, Sir, that these 
remarks may cause future lists to be restricted to public usefulness, and to 
be frankly authenticated by the name of the proprietor of the plants it 
enumerates, I remain, your constant subscriber, — H. Laundy. Woodbridge’ 
Nursery, March 3. 1833. 

Letting of Land to Cottagers is the best Means of benefiting them and our- 
selves. — Sir, You and I thmk so much alike on the subject of cottage 
allotments, and the arguments in their favour appear so convincing, that it 
seems almost superfluous to add a word to what has already been so power- 
fully advanced in their support in the pages of this Magazine; and I only 
advert to the subject at this time to point out what I think is an error in 
the reasoning of a celebrated political economist of the present day. Miss 
Harriet Martineau, for whom and for whose writings I entertain very 
high respect, in No. x. of her Idlustrations of Political Economy, has, I con- 
ceive, greatly overrated the advantages of emigration, and proportionally 
underrated those of home colonisation. Now, to say nothing of the in- 
adequacy of the former as a means of relief to our surplus population, 
surely we cannot shut our eyes to the fact, that wherever the system of 
cottage allotments has been fairly and judiciously tried, it has been found 
productive of very great advantages, by inducing the labourer to draw the 
supplies for himself and family from the land, instead of from the poor- 
rates. I cannot appeal to a better authority on this matter than Mr. John 
Denson, who, in his valuable little treatise, A Peasant’s Voice to Land- 
owners, has presented us with a series of facts which no theory, however 
ingenious, can overcome or gainsay. I agree with Selim (Vol. VIII. 
p. 647.) that too large an extent of land may not be desirable; but 
just as much as the cottager and his family can cultivate without ham- 
pering themseives, must surely be an important acquisition. Grant them 
this, and there will be no necessity to banish them as useless lumber from 
the country. — Samuel Taylor. Stoke Ferry, Norfolk, Jan. 21. 1833. 

Mr. Weeks’s Boiler does not fur up ; and a Notice of some Improvements 
by Mr. Weeks. — Sir, I beg to be allowed to point out an error in your 
Magazine, in p. 37., where you state my boiler to be liable to corrosion. 
It holds but ten gallons, and flows seven a minute: the rapid flow and 
quickness of circulation act more as a cleanser than otherwise; for in- 
stance, I had one fixed for a few months, partly as a steam-boiler ; and I 
afterwards applied the same for a quick circulation of hot water to my hot- 
house. It had not been there long, before it threw up as much as a quart 
of the earthy particles of water which had before been deposited; and 
this gave it a thorough cleansing. I have also pulled my boilers to pieces 
after having been fixed six or nine months, and have found them cleaner, 
if possible, than on the day in which they were first made. 

I also take the liberty of informing you, I have made some improve- 
ments :— Ist, by a half-circular trough, which surrounds the uppermost 
pipe, which is filled with water for keeping up a constant steam in houses ; 
2dly, by heating and letting in external air by means of a pipe at every six 
feet passing through the hot water down the standards, the bottom end - 
going through the front wall to receive cold air, which is heated by passing 
up through the water; and the other end lets it into the house eae 
heated ; and by this process the air will continually keep on in circulation. 

I have likewise a plan of ventilating to cleanse the houses or pits from 
stagnant or foul air; first, by letting in the heated air, and then by means 


Vou. [X.— No. 44, - BB 


370 Retrospective Criticism, 


of a ventilator in any part of the wall, and an ascending tube fixed thereto 
on the outside, which will keep a continual circulation of air without open- 
ing of doors or lights. 

Another improvement I have also made for heating of pine pits, frames, 
&c., without the aid of tan or hot dung, by means of a trough about | ft. 
6 in. wide, more or less, as occasion may require, which may be made with 
bricks set in cement, with stone, or with any other material that will hold 
water. This trough is to lie under the pit, and a pipe is to pass through 
it to heat the water ; ; and a common wood hurdle is to be placed over, 
about one foot off, with straw or leaves on the top, so that the heat and 
steam may pass through to the mould. Iam, Sir, yours, &c. — Edward 
Weeks. Horticultural Manufactory, King’s Road, Chelsea, Nov. 11. 1832. 

Thoughts and Facts on the Effects and Principles of Pruning, by Mr. 
Howden. — Sir, Mr. Billington and you have “spun a mortal long yarn,” 
about “ ignorance in arboriculture, with hints for its removal,” all seem- 
ingly directed against poor Howden. (p. 50—59.) Nine full pages ! oh, my 
patience! and T would not give a fraction of a farthing for all his ‘dr > 
musty, worthless palaver. Friend Taylor is wrong in supposing (p. 49.) 
that I am a disciple of the old school: I trust I have advanced at least 
one step higher than that of the new school. I properly appreciate the 
value of leaves, twigs, and branches; I should be sorry to deprive a tree 
of one of its leaves in summer, or to see them devoured by the locusts or 
caterpillars; I should be sorry to deprive the peacock of one feather of 
his gaudy train; but I should be more sorry to be such a ninny as to call 
the eyes of Argus the mouths, or heads, of Medusa. If the poor bird had 
not another mouth at the other extremity it would never get fat. The 
whole of Mr. Billington’s nine pages, with quotations from better men 
than himself, only go “to prove that to tear off a young leaf draws part of 
the bark with it, while a ripe leaf drops off at a joint! Pray, Sir, will not 
tearing out a young feather from a fowl tear the skin, and even draw 
blood ? while, if left to nature, they will all drop offat a joint, the same as 
leaves: but when do the branches of a tree drop off at a joint ? Answer. 
Never; and so the skilful pruner makes an artificial joint with his knife, 
hook, or chisel. Question. When does a branch rot and drop off from a 
tree, leaving part of its decayed stem in the stem of its mother? Answer. 
As soon as the higher branches meet, so as to exclude the sun and air; for, 
as few trees will live under the drip of others, so few branches will live 
under the drip of their younger brethren. Question. Then, what is the 
use of pruning, if trees, planted at proper distances, will prune themselves 
naturally? Answer. Very few deciduous trees will prune themselves, 
unless firs or evergreens are planted among them, by which they are 
both sheltered and drawn up straight. Then, 1 to take away the firs, &c., at 
once, would expose them too suddenly to summer’s heat and winter’s 
cold, and they would become hidebound and stunted; but, by pruning the 
firs, the sun and air are let in among the trees, and the ground is warmed, 
and vegetation encouraged. Then, a plantation wholly of firs will grow 
better if planted 4 ft. apart than if planted 4 yds. apart, if so be that by 
pruning you admit the sun and air to warm the soil, and so invigorate the 
trees, that you do not need to fall any tree before it is fit for a °9 ft. rail ; 
whereas, without pruning or thinning, it would be a mass of rubbish, like 
an unhoed crop of turnips, all rotting on the land; but 4 yds. being a 
proper distance for a timber tree of “100 cubic feet (as proved on the 
estates of the Duke of Athol), then the pruner has 2722 rails on his acre; 
of which he sells 2420 rails or poles, leaving 300 timber trees on his acre, 
which, in 72 years, it appears, are worth perhaps eight or ten pounds sterling 
each tree. Now, the pruning costs no more than 10s. per acre; and 2420 


Retrospective Criticism. onl 


rails, at the very low price of 6d. per pair, is 1210s., or 60/. 10s. per acre. 
The Duke of Athol has practised turning Scotch bullocks, or stotts, into 
his plantations, which may be very economical on the barren mountains 
of Scotland, where grass is scarce; but I prefer putting in 300 English 
oaks, elms, or Spanish chestnuts, so that when the larches have been felled, 
a fine young plantation of herd wood supplies their places. This result, 
however, partly depends on soil and situation. All soils are improved by 
producing a crop of trees, therefore all poor lands should be planted. 

Now for the requisite quantity of leaves (viz. mouths to feed, and) to 
rear 100 cubic feet of timber. Twelve feet apart being found the proper 
distance, of course the branches can extend no farther than 6 ft. from the 
centre of the stem (for observe that all fir boughs proceed from the very 
centre of the stem, or first year’s shoot, and increase in size towards the 
surface, till they rot, or are cut off). Then, as all branches will rot when 
excluded from the sun and air, and under the drip of others, it follows that 
they are no longer of use, but may be very detrimental to the timber, and 
who will not agree that they are better off than on? It therefore follows 
that the Duke of Athol’s trees have no larger a top than an unpruned 
tree of 10 or 15 years’ growth. So much for mighty heads and mouths. 
Then, Sir, if left to nature, deciduous trees will not prune themselves at 
all, nor form a bole fit to be seen. An oak, unless drawn up by other 
trees, will only assume the appearance of an apple tree, ay, even of a dwarf 
apple tree ; but by pruning it may at least assume the appearance of a 
standard apple. Some eighteen years ago I planted an apple orchard with 
dwarfs and standards alternately ; I have felled some of them this winter 
with stems 10 in. in diameter, though three fourths of their mouths were 
pruned off every year. I had one of the standards sawn into boards, 
which I intend to make a table of, as a keepsake; the centre being a 
beautiful picture of an Irish shillelah, which has turned brown; the outside 
is white as chalk, of fine clear timber. Had such a tree not been pruned 
in its youth, it would have been only like the dwarfs, only fit for firewood, 
and poor firewood too. We are sorry to lop or prune ornamental trees ; 
but, when timber is the object desired, even the common laurel, and 
particularly the Portugal laurel, and the silver-striped holly, by thick 
planting and proper pruning, may be formed into timber trees. Many of 
the latter I assisted in felling, 30 years ago, at the Earl of Hopetoun’s; 
many of them were full 18 in. in diameter, with nearly 20 ft. of clear clean 
stem: they were sawn into veneers, for the cabinet-makers, as the wood 
is much whiter than that of the common green holly. 

Now for ignorance in arboriculture. What is the reason why we gar- 
deners cut off half or two thirds of the leaf when inserting a bud into 
a stock? Why do we cut down a graft or scion to two or three eyes 
when inserting a graft? Why do we prefer raising grape vines from single 
eyes, instead of a long shoot? Why do we cut down vines and other 

_plants to make them break out the stronger? Why do we use striking- 
glasses for tender cuttings, and even shade them from the sun? The 
answer of the would-be new school, will be, “ It is all from ignorance. 
Gardeners have no time to study physiology; their masters and mistresses 
should study for them, and tell them how to practise; and the learned in 
divinity, law, and physic will assist with their college lore in illuminating 
the poor ignorant gardener, inasmuch as he is quite in the dark; for that 
the leaves, twigs, buds, and branches are the true sources of health and 
vigour.” Well, well, Messieurs Collegians, you must have it all your own 
way: you can speak and write better than we poor gardeners can; but, I 
trust, most of us know how to sow, plant, bud and graft, prune and thin, 
s0 as to produce flowers, fruit, vegetables, ay, and timber trees too, as 

BB 2 


372 Retrospective Criticism. 


well as any of you. I have said before, that every thing the tree produces 
is the offspring of the tree; they bear not the tree, but the tree them; 
whether they are branches, leaves, flowers, or fruits, they send nothing 
back to their parent, and yet they are the most grateful progeny in nature. 
No animal ever returns the kindness of its parent: it is seldom seen that 
the chickens scratch for the old hen: but vegetables really are fed from 
their own offspring ; I mean, from the rotten leaves: a tree actually devours 
its own offspring. Now, brother-gardeners, I appeal to you (for I will 
not appeal to those who style themselves the learned): have you not seen 
some of your vines break out very weakly in spring, yet by the end of 
summer the shoots are most luxuriant, with monstrous large leaves 
(famous mouths, say certain physiologists); all blood-suckers, say we, 
and they are hewn down, to be cast into the oven. And thus would I hew 
down all such long lumbering letters as that of Mr. Billington, to be put 
either into the oven or under the boiler. 

P.S. I fear this will be thought a long lumbering letter, so you may 
hew it down and cast it where you please. — John Howden. Heath House, 
Feb. 24, 1833. 

Sir, I feel as if again called upon to come to the scratch; for, al- 
though I wrote to you only a few weeks ago, I had then only once read 
over Mr. Billington’s long communication (p. 50—59.), and wrote my 
reply right off hand, without any corrections; and I never retain dupli- 
cates. On again perusing Mr. Billington’s letter, lam the more convinced . 
of the truth of my doctrine ; and, as we are both writing solely for the good 
of the public, our very opposite opinions should be fairly weighed in the 
balance by all who are desirous of proving all things, and holding fast that 
which is good. J am still determined to stand or fall by my bill; and, 
should I be cast off, like a withered leaf, I shall have the consolation of 
thinking that I have done my duty. Here, then, I take my stand; here 
I take my text: — We are all of the earth earthly: all food comes from 
the earth, either directly or indirectly; whether it be for the support of 
animal or vegetable life. Air, light, and heat are all absorbents : they take 
all, but return nothing but a shower of rain, which may wash and clean 
the leaves of a tree, and give moisture to its roots, which are indeed its 
only mouths. The vital air we breathe does not support us; but, on the 
contrary, it really exhausts us, if not supplied with more substantial food ; 
witness Ann Moor, the famous fasting woman of Tutbury; or, on the 
other hand, a live toad in the heart of a tree, or in a solid block of marble. 
Heat, air, and light are the chief promoters of vegetation. Electricity 
also acts a conspicuous part. It_is an established fact that heat expands 
and cold condenses all substances. It is heat that causes the buds of 
trees to swell; air causes them to expand, and light gives them colour and 
taste or flavour. This is not from their imbibing any thing from these 
elements, but from these elements abstracting certain fluids, leaving the 
grosser matter to form various shades, colours, and consistencies of the 
various species of vegetable productions. Heat, air, light, and cleanliness 
all promote the growth of both animals and vegetables: but we should be 
very wrong in saying that the skin of animals, or the leaves of vegetables, 
imbibed any nourishment from such sources. As well might we say that 
a dirty child derived nourishment from the soap and water it was washed 
with, or that a horse got nourishment out of the currycomb. The changes 
of atmospheric pressure have a wonderful effect on vegetation: if you 
take a withered shrivelled fruit of any kind —say an apple —and put it 
into a vessel to which an air-pump can be attached, and work the pump 
gradually, the fruit will as gradually swell to its original size and plump 
form. If such apple had been growing on a tree, the air so drawn out of 
it would have acted as a sucker-pump, and drawn up sap to supply the 


Retrospective Criticism. 373 


place of the exhausted air. On this principle the leaves of trees act as so 
many pumps to a tree; and the head or top of a tree acts as a single 
pump for the whole stem or trunk. Now, the sap being drawn all from 
the earth, is taken up in its compound state, consisting of carbon, oxygen, 
and hydrogen. The leaves discharge only the pure hydrogen, like di- 
stilled water, retaining only the carbon and oxygen, which form the timber, 
bark, and dry leaves: by an extra artificial heat, the oxygen may also all be 
discharged, leaving nothing but pure carbon. Were it not for atmospheric 
influence, there could be no leaves, and without leaves timber could only 
attain the consistence of roots of the same species; like potatoes sprouting 
in a dark cellar. Trees of rapid growth, such as the poplar, sycamore, 
and lime tree, have generally a large shaking leaf: these leaves, acting as 
so many pumps, on the principle of capillary attraction, encourage the 
growth of timber on a congenial soil; but on a poor soil they are a 
greater curse than a blessing: hence we see so many stunted oaks, and 
other single or hedgerow trees, with a head or crown a hundred yards in 
circumference, with scarcely ten feet of saleable timber in them. Such 
trees may be admired by people who are fond of “ the picturesque,” but 
to me they only appear like magnified gooseberry bushes. Mr. Main says, 
“ the larger the head of a tree, the larger must be the trunk ” [Vol. VIII. 
p- 306.]; and that “ the arguments of such as I lie ina nutshell.” Allow me 
to retaliate a little, and say, the arguments of all such as Mr. Main lie ina 
peppercorn. I am not a disciple of Mr. Lindley, nor would I pin my faith 
to the sleeve of any man, however high his titles, including F.L.S.; but I 
value the writings of Mr. Lindley very much; and the quotations of Mr. 
Billington serve to prove in a general way that my principles are correct. 
The very nectarine tree (p. 52.) in Mr. Billington’s own garden proves 
this. The large bud, or graft, or top of this tree ought, on his principle, 
to have sent down nourishment to cause the plum stock or crab stock to 
have swelled as large as a pumpkin; instead of which, he finds it one third 
smaller than the part above, and no doubt far smaller than if it had only 
been supporting its natural progeny; but, like the weeping ash I alluded 
to (p. 53.), the foster-child is a blood-sucker: it acted the part of the 
young cuckoo in the titlark’s nest ; it gobbled up all the carbon, oxygen, 
and hydrogen for its mighty paunch. The plum stock was merely, like a 
grape vine cut at the wrong season, bleeding itself to death. The plum 
stock is a mere siphon or horseleech to draw in and give out; or, like the 
jackal, or lion’s provider, it has to take up with the mere refuse or offal. 
[ have only now to add, that should a branch of a tree offend thee, cut it 
off, and cast it from thee: it is only alittle tree growing out of a large one. 
Heal over a wound as soon as possible ; and, though the timber is not im- 
proved, the shape of the tree may be. Should your tree have too few 
branches, according to your taste, stick it all over with buds and grafts 
Should your tree be too old, and unsightly, and incorrigible, cut it clear 
off by the ground; and, if a reproductive tree, you may have four fine 
shoots from it; and, by planting four or five handsome young trees round 
it, you may have a clump of great beauty, instead of a single deformity, 
on the same space of land, — always remembering to train up a tree in the 
way it should go, and when it is old it will not depart from it. I am, dear 
Sir, yours in good earnest, — John Howden. March 31. 1833. 

The Hoop-petticoat Narcissus (Narcissus Bulbocodium Bot. Mag. t. 88. ; 
Corbularia serdtina Haworth) is (in this part of the kingdom, at least) 
perfectly hardy and of free growth. (See Vol. VIII. p. 724., Vol. IX. 
p. 118. 242.) I have, as well as J. D. (Vol. VIII. p. 724.), seen it 
“ thriving thoroughly” and “ flowering satisfactorily”? at the foot of a 
wall, where it was planted in light sandy loam. I have also seen it 
flowering beautifully, year after year, in a low cold situation, and very 

BB 3 


374 Retrospective Criticism. 


heavy wet soil. In the grounds of the present Botanic Garden, the soil 
of which is, for the most part, very light, many clusters were planted, in 
various situations, early last autumn, which are now growing strongly. If 
a little more attention were paid to this plant, and its seeds were sown, 
the moment they are ripe, in a sheltered situation, it might soon be ren- 
dered comparatively common. The seedlings will arrive at maturity in 
about three or four years. — H. Turner. Botanic Garden, Bury St. Ed- 
munds, April 19. 1833. 

It is impossible to effect the Cross-impregnation of the Cucumber (Cucumis 
sativus L.) and the Melon (C. Mélo L.) with each other..— Sir, I had till now 
indulged the hope that I should not have had so soon again to trouble you 
on the subject of my present letter. The seeds, however, which Mr. 
Oliver was so kind as to send me (Vol. VIII. p. 612.), I have been unable 
to excite to germination. Their failure I regret, because therein I may in 
some measure lose a strong corroborating fact, which might have induced 
conviction in those who still doubt the position I have endeavoured to 
establish, viz., the impossibility of effecting, either by artificial or natural 
means, the fertilisation of the Cucumis sativus and Cucumis Melo, or 
vice versa. Immediately on examining the seeds sent, I felt certain of what 
would be the result of their cultivation, and this I mentioned in a letter 
to Mr. Oliver; stating my belief that it would eventually prove that the 
cross he had obtained was between the C. flexudsus, or a variety thereof, 
and the C. JZélo; confirming the truth of one of the conjectures I had 
thrown out in my last communication. The contorted appearance of 
the grains fully bears me out; some of them are nearly a semicircle, and 
all are more or less twisted: now, this is a distinctive character, never 
found in the species C. sativus. I enclose you the few I have remaining, 
that you may judge between us: on breaking them, you will easily per- 
ceive they are unfitted for germination; due, no doubt, to their age, 
being from nine to eleven years old. No. 1. is the seed taken from what 
Mr. Oliver describes as a large cucumber, fit only for mangoes (doubtless 
this, previous to its coming into his possession, was a hybrid, between the 
C. flexuosus, or snake cucumber, as it is commonly termed, and the melon, 
by which cross it had lost its snake-like form: if Mr. Oliver had examined 
the foliage and blossoms, he might have readily distinguished it from the 
common cucumber): the fruit that afforded the seeds now in question 
must, in its infant state, have been fecundated by the pollen of the melon, 
and it consequently produced the hybrid he mentions, intermediate be- 
tween the two parents; the seed here, of course, remains unchanged, as 
that of the mango cucumber, and is the most contorted. 

No. 2. was taken from the above first hybrid fruit, and now, provided 
no foreign fecundation have again taken place, is become permanent; and 
the seeds, being modified by the melon parent, are much less contorted. 
The product of this it was that was sent to the London Horticultural 
Society, and, from some unexplained cause, yielded no fertile grains; not, 
certainly, because a hybrid production; had that been the cause, it would 
have been evinced by such failure in the previous generation. Need I say 
more? I have, I think, clearly shown that Mr. Oliver’s hybrid militates 
in no degree against my previous position. I have, in a former letter 
(Vol. 1V. p. 383.), enumerated the C. flexudsus as one of those congeners 
that admitted of reciprocal fecundation with the C. (élo, and in my mind 
it admits not of a shadow of doubt that, if Mr. Oliver’s mango cucumber 
was not the C. flexudsus, yet that it was some other than the C. sativus, 
IT enclose also, for your comparison, seeds of the @. flexudsus, of three 
different hybrids between that and C. Melo, and also the “melon trompe” 
received from Vilmorin of Paris, which I also consider as a hybrid having 
the like origin: no one of them is worth cultivating. 


Queries and Answers. 375 


I postpone till a future opportunity some farther remarks on the mutual 
fecundation of plants, and on the divisions and subdivisions at present 
adopted by botanists. Yours, &c.—J.C. K. Levant Lodge. 

To the seeds of Cucumis flexudsus sent, the seeds from Mr. Oliver’s 
mango cucumber (No. 1.) bear, in contortedness, colour, and in size, ex- 
cept that they are shorter and broader, close resemblance. The seeds 
(No. 2.) from the hybrid raised by Mr. Oliver, and described Vol. VIII. 
p- 611., bear an evident, but rather less close, resemblance to those of C. 
flexudsus. On the seeds of the other kinds sent by J. C. K. it is not 
necessary to speak. — J. D. 


Art. III. Queries and Answers. 


WHAT Quantity of the under-named Kinds of Work should a Workman 
perform in a Day? — Sir, I venture to ask for an article on the quantity of 
work which a moderately good carpenter, mason, ploughman, country 
workman in general, and labouring gardener ought to do in a day ? — I do 
not mean fine work. How much sawing, for instance, or brick or rough 
stone walling ? How much hedging, or ploughing, or ditching, or trenching, 
or turnip-hoeing, or cutting of coppice wood ? How many sheep or cattle 
one man can attend? How much a team of oxen, or horses, ought to do 
ina day? Or how much a gardener should dig? Or how much garden 
belonging to a vilia one man ought to be able to keep in order through the 
year? Iam a young beginner, and am perfectly ignorant on these points, 
as I am sure thousands are; and I should be most delighted to find a list 
of two or three pages, in your next number, estimating the quantity of all 
sorts of such work as I might reasonably expect to have performed by a 
fair workman. 

Movable Saw Mill. —The Duke of Athol, at Dunkeld, has established 
asort of movable saw mill in his woods, which is of very cheap and substantial 
construction. Could you obtain the particulars, it would be extremely 
useful in many other parts of the country. No doubt, a letter from you to 
his grace, or to his manager in Scotland, would procure the necessary in- 
formation, as every body must feel an anxious desire to forward your most 
useful labours. — H. Johnson. 

Remarks contributive to an answer to one or two of Mr. Johnson’s 
queries, but still not supplying, even to one or two of them, either a direct 
or full answer, will be found in Vol. 1V. p. 447., Vol. V. p. 108. 728.—J. .D. 
Volumes in Dr. Lardner’s Cyclopedia useful to Gardeners. — Sir, Permit 
me to recommend, through your Magazine, a few books, which I have 
found to contain more useful information on the subjects upon which they 
treat, in a small compass, than I have been abie to procure from more 
voluminous reading; and which books or works would, in my younger 
days, if I could then have obtained them, have been of inestimable value to 
me. The books to which I allude are the scientific works in Dr. Lardner’s 
Cabinet Cyclopedia, particularly the volumes on Mechanics, Hydrostatics 
and Pneumatics, Chemistry, and Heat and its Practical Application ; 
which may be procured, in separate volumes, at 6s. each, in cloth. The 
volume on Chemistry, by M. Donovan, Esq., would answer the purpose of 
Mr. Taylor (Vol. VIIt. p. 735.) more effectually than any other book I 
know; and would obviate the defect pointed out by Mr. Mallet (Vol. LX. 
p- 122.), that English popular works on chemistry are defective in one 
important point, viz., that of explaining the language which they speak. I 
would likewise recommend to gardeners, whose local situation will admit, 
to join mechanics’ institutes, where very much information may be 
obtained ; and, I believe, at an expense within the power of most young 

BB + 


376 Queries and Answers. 


men desirous of improvement. Iam, Sir, yours, &c. — Richard Paterson, 
Gardener to F. W. Campbell, Esq. Birkfield Lodge, near Ipswich, Feb. 15. 
1833. 

A Society at Guernsey for purchasing and circulating Books on the Art and 
Science of Horticulture. — A few months back, some amateur gardeners here, 
to promote their mutual amusement and instruction, formed themselves into 
a society for purchasing, and circulating among the members, books on 
the art and science of horticulture ; and each member thereby obtains, for 
a small annual subscription, the perusal of a considerable number of books. 
Micht not this plan be generally recommended to young gardeners, both 
amateur and professional, to their advantage ?—A Member of the Guernsey 
Horticultural Book Society. 

Ten shillings and sixpence was the charge of the annual subscription to 
a mechanics’ institute to which I once belonged (at Bury St. Edmunds, 
Suffolk): the advantages this sum procured were, the use of numerous 
volumes, and the hearing of occasional lectures on different subjects in 
science. The Ipswich Mechanics’ Institute, of which Mr. Paterson is a 
distinguished member, is numerously supported; and rich in books and 
apparatus, and specimens of various objects; and lectures, and able ones 
too, are delivered at it, to the amount of twenty-two in a year, by volun- 
teers among the members. I recollect seeing, in a last year’s Ipswich news- 
paper, a report of an able lecture on the practice of pruning fruit trees, 
delivered by Mr. Paterson himself: the principles he recommended were 
chiefly those of Hayward. By a list of the lectures for the present year 
a friend has sent me, it appears that Mr. Paterson stands engaged to give 
one “ on horticulture,” on Oct. 28. Mr. Woollard, too, is to give one on 
the “ history of horticulture,” on March 18. Among the remaining lec- 
tures, there are two to be given on “ natural history,” by Wm. Batley, 
Esq.; and one on “ botany,” by Mr. Webster.— J. D. March 8. 1833. 

Tests for detecting Oxide of Iron in Soils and Subsoils. — Sir, To your 
correspondent’s enquiry, “ What is the simplest test for detecting the 
oxide of iron in soils and subsoils?” I beg to say, that I think the enquiry 
he wishes to make is, how can you most easily determine the proportion of 
oxide of iron existing in soils; for, as to merely detecting the existence of 
oxide of iron, there is, perhaps, not a soil or subsoil from John-o’-Groat’s 
House to Lizard Point that does not conta it. For Mr. Taylor’s pur- 
pose, it will be sufficient if he can determine pretty nearly the amount of 
metallic oxides in the soil he examines. For this purpose, let the soil be 
dissolved in diluted muriatic acid; or, if insoluble, fused previously with 
excess of carbonate of potass, and then dissolved. Solution of ferro- 
cyanate of potass (or prussiate of potash of the druggists) will precipitate 
all the metals usually found in soils: and, if iron predominate, the preci- 
pitate will be blue; or white, if the iron is in a low state of oxidisement, 
but becoming blue on exposure to the air. If this precipitate be heated red 
hot, it will be decomposed, and the result will be the oxides contained in 
the soil. Mr. Taylor will, I am sure, not be offended when I say that the 
separation of these metallic oxides individually, either from the soil or from 
ene another, requires more skill and manipulation than any one not 
versed in chemical operations is likely to possess; for which reason I have 
confined myself to giving the foregoing simple (and, to a chemist, clumsy ) 
mode of answering Mr. Taylor’s question. I believe it is generally con- 
ceived that canker is caused by the roots of trees so affected getting into the 
subsoil ; and I believe Mr. Taylor is quite right in supposing that the oxide 
of iron is the cause of it: but not immediately, as it appears to me the 
proximate cause is the total want of minutely divided and decayed vege- 
table matter which is found in such subsoils. Certain it is that trees will 
thrive well in soils that contain an enormous quantity of iron, provided 


Queries and Answers. 377 


there be also a good supply of vegetable matter. — Robert Mallet. 94, Ca- 
pel Street, Dublin, Dec. 17. 1832. 

Seeds. — M. Petersen mentions, in a communication respecting the 
Copenhagen botanic garden (Vol. IV. p. 200.), that, of 1800 different 
seeds sent from Denmark to Calcutta in 1820, 1400 vegetated in 4 days: 
whereas, of those sent from thence to Europe, almost all perished before 
arrival. It would be very desirable if M. Petersen could state what pre- 
cautions were taken in packing, in both instances, and, if possible, in what | 
part of the ship the packages were placed. Can any of your readers state 
whether instances occur of seeds having been packed in boxes made of 
cork, surrounded by flannel, and the result? I suggest this method, be- 
lieving that uniformity of temperature is of the utmost importance in the 
preservation of vegetable life.—Charles M. W.- . London, Feb. 12.1833. 

Schinus Molle, Fragments of its lve Leaves exhibit chemical Phenomena. 
— A curious phenomenon may be observed by breaking a leafstalk of 
Schinus Molle into pieces, and putting them in water. As the divisions 
float on the water, the sap that exudes from their lower ends seems to be 
changed into a kind of gas, which is evolved at intervals of a few seconds, 
and, as it streams along the surface of the water, it separates into nu- 
merous little starlike figures, tinted with faint red and blue. These are 
extinguished almost in an instant; but, after the evolutions from the leaf- 
stalk have apparently ceased, other little stars suddenly appear on the 
surface, several inches distant from each other, and in places where no trace 
of the former ones is visible on the water. Perhaps some of your che- 
mical readers will explain this phenomenon. — J. B. W. Jan. 1. 1833. 

As the phenomenon was once shown to me by a gentleman in Suffolk, 
Robert Bevan, Esq., the broken portions of the leaves moved about, and 
changed places with each other, as dancers do. Mr. Bevan remarked, that 
their motions had been aptly compared to a fleet of ships employed in 
manceuvring. — J. D. 

The above has stood in type two months. The delay admits the fol- 
lowing most welcome contribution to an answer to J. B. W.’s query, by 
Dr. Lindley, given in his description of Duvaua latifolia (the duvauas were 
formerly called species of Schinus) in the Botanical Register for May, 
t. 1580. “ A pretty phenomenon is exhibited by the leaves when thrown 
into water: after lying a short time, they will be found to start and jump 
as if they were alive, while at the instant of each start a jet of oily matter 
is discharged into the water. This circumstance appears to be owing to 
some peculiar irritability of the parenchyma of the leaves, which, when 
acted upon by water, causes the turpentine sacs, that abound in the leaves, 
to empty themselves with violence; and the movements of the leaves 
may be ascribed to the recoil produced by the discharge. Thus we have 
in every leaf a sort of vegetable battery, which will keep up its fire 
until the stock of ammunition is expended.” 

Gardenia radicans : by what Means can it be induced to grow healthily, 
and blossom freely and finely 2? — 1 hope some cultivator, who can at his or 
her pleasure produce both these results on this lovely plant, will teach all 
of us henceforth how to do the same; for, at almost all the places I call at, 
I see only sickly plants of it, and these barren of blossoms. — R. 7. 

I know a cultivator who, fifteen years ago (I was then a lad in his 
employ), grew and bloomed the plant, satisfactorily ; and, if I remember 
rightly, thus: cuttings of the tips of the branches of plants that had 
flowered were, early in the autumn, struck in heath mould and white sand, 
under bell-glasses, in a stove I think, and, when so struck, each trans- 
planted into a small sixty, in soil two thirds heath mould, one third loam, 
and kept through the winter in a stove. These plants were, in early spring, 
transferred to the first hotbed that was ready, and grown vigorously in a 


378 Queries and Answers. 


high, moist temperature, where each miniature, glossy green, lance-leaved 
bush was surmounted by a gorgeous crown of white, formed by one, and 
sometimes two of the well known, large, snow-hued, exquisitely fragrant 
flowers. — J. D. 

Extirpating Daisy Plants from Turf.— Sir, I had hoped to see, before 
this, an answer to a query proposed by J. (Vol. VI. p. 615.), respecting 
a remedy for destroying daisies; but, as no one has attempted it, I shall 
endeavour to lay before your readers the only method I am acquainted 
with. Inthe month of March, let the turf be pared off to the thickness 
of about an inch, and, when dry enough, let it be thrown in heaps, and 
burnt: afterwards let the ashes be thrown regularly over the surface ; then 
procure some fresh grass seeds, and, having sown them, let them be well 
raked in; then, if any daisies appear, they may be taken out with a spud, 
as you suggested: but to talk of destroying them by this means, in such a 
case as that mentioned by your correspondent, reminds me of a plan I 
once read of (I think) in the Parmer’s Journal, to destroy ants, which was 
not only sure to effect their destruction, but also to find employment for 
all the poor people in the parish; a thing very desirable at the present 
time, as labourers are so very plentiful. As near as I can recollect, it was 
this: set as many persons on as you can procure, eyen if they have only 
one hand; let them sit down by the side of the hillock, and catch the 
little insects as they come up; let them be paid by the thousand, and 
appoint some of the most honest among them as overseers, in order that 
they may not cheat in the number. To return to the daisies, if the 
piece of turf be small, it may be removed, and some that is free from 
daisies laid down in its stead. Jt may not be amiss here to mention the 
cause of so many daisies being often seen. It is usually occasioned by 
gentlemen not allowing a sufficient number of men to mow the grass 
before the daisies go to seed; for, if afew only remain to drop their seeds, 
they will soon spread, and spring up all over the lawn; and, as they also 
propagate by the root, a small plant soon becomes a large bunch. The 
truth of this observation may be seen, by noticing a single plant by the 
side of a walk, if left undisturbed ; when the parent and offspring will show 
themselves like a hen with her chickens all round her. — O. 

In cultivating Carnations, is any injury likely to accrue to them from 
using iron stakes to support their flower-stems? That is, as iron is ad- 
mitted to act injuriously on the physiological system of plants, which 
imbibe a portion of its properties through their roots; has any one 
witnessed an observable injury produced on plants of carnations, from 
iron stakes designed to support their flower stems fixed in the soil about 
their roots? — R. H. Cambridge, March, 1833. 

Information asked on cultivating and fruiting the Mangosteen (Garcinia 
Mangostana Z.).— Sir, In Vol. II. p. 223., M. Soulange Bodin mentions 
that the mangosteen had fruited in a stove of M. Boursault’s; and in Vol. 
IX. p. 150. you mention that, among the rarities contained in one of the 
stoves of that gentleman, there was Garcinia Mangostana. Now, I wish to 
know whether, or not the plant has ever produced its fruit again ? whether 
or not it did so in tolerable plenty ? and whether its treatment was at all 
peculiar? Was or was not the plant trained on a trellis, and what was 
its height? —J. B. May 6. 1833. 

We hope our friends in France will supply to our correspondent, who 
is attempting the culture of the mangosteen in Britain, all the information 
in their possession. — Cond. 

What are the best Methods of raising Salads in the Winter, and Mushrooms 
all the Year? — Sir, Could any correspondent do a greater service to 
English gardeners, than communicating, for their use, the best descriptions 
of the French mode of raising salads in the winter, and mushrooms 


Queries and Answers. 379 


through the whole year? We have no good work, or even hints on these 
subjects that are of the least use to us. Again, you seem to think that 
they have two varieties of mushrooms; one whitish yellow, the other 
delicate white. Spawn of each could easily be introduced: and, in the 
neighbourhood of Bath, and probably many other places in England, 
mushrooms may be raised in old stone quarries under ground. 

In fact, on raising mushrooms, or winter salads, we know just nothing : 
and I hope that you will collect and publish every information on these 
subjects, and take away this reproach from British gardeners. Perhaps, 
with a little instruction, we might do much with our cellars; at all 
events, we ought to try. Yours, &c.— George Wilkinson, Gardener to 
J. L., Esq. 

In what Degree are the Growth, Welfare, and Permanence of the Western 
Plane Tree (Platanus occidentalis L.), and of the Eastern Plane Tree (Plétanus 
orientalis L.), affected by the various Climates and Soils of Britain, and by the 
Mode or Modes of propagating these Trees practised in the British Nurseries? — 
Sir, Some twenty years ago, or more, the occidental plane tree (Platanus 
occidentalis Z.) received a check, which some attributed to a late frost that 
happened after the trees had begun to shoot, while others considered it to 
be a blast: but, whatever was the cause, the result was such as to irre- 
trievably injure the greater part of this ornamental tree throughout the 
western counties. Many fine specimens, from fifty to sixty feet in height, 
in full vigour, came under my observation, which, after the circumstance 
took place, began, as if death-stricken, to decline, and in the course of two 
er three years their bark began to fall off, and, thus looking so miserable, 
_ they were with reluctance taken down. After this some young trees were 

procured from the nursery; but they by no means answered my ex- 
pectations, as most of the young shoots died back every winter, exactly 
similar to those on the old trees after they had received the injury. In 
consequence of this, I turned my attention to the oriental plane ( Platanus 
orientalis L.), of which some fine young trees are now making progress 
on the site where the others stood. Iam inclined to think that the failure 
of the young occidental planes was owing to their having been layers from 
stools that had been more or less injured by the same cause which proved 
so injurious to the old trees, although perhaps in a less degree. 

I do not recollect seeing any thing in the pages of your Magazine in 
allusion to the above subject. Perhaps some one of your intelligent cor- 
respondents may feel inclined to take it up, so as to give a satisfactory 
evidence of the real cause which deprived so many gentlemen’s seats in the 
west of a part of their proudest ornaments; and also to throw out some 
hints on the propriety of endeavouring to reinstate this favourite tree, with 
the chance of success, &c.; so that the succeeding generation in those 
parts may enjoy the sight of it in all its beauty ; as many gentlemen, since 
what has happened, are unwilling to give it another trial. 

I am not aware how far north or south this mischief extended. On re- 
ferring to your Vol. ILL. p. 364., under the head of “ Calls at Suburban 
Gardens,” I perceive, when that article was written, that there were trees 
of this kind, from sixty to eighty feet nigh, at Sion House and in Chelsea 
Garden. Your calls at these places were made many years after the injury 
that happened in the west; consequently, it could not have been universal. 
T. Rutger. Shortgrove, Essex, Jan. 1833. 

A fine Cork Tree (Quércus Suber L.), near Woodford, Suffolk. — In the 
Newcastle Courant of October 20. 1832, it is stated, that, at a meeting, on 
Oct. 15. 1832, of the Natural History Society in that town, was presented, 
besides other matters, a fine piece of the wood of the cork tree (Quércus 
Sttber), grown near Woodford, in Suffolk. Out of whose garden, or off 
whose estate, could this be derived? Perhaps some Suffolcian will oblige 


380 Covent Garden Market. 


us by telling? The specimens of cork tree in Britain capable of supplying 
“a fine piece of wood” are so very few, that we are anxious to register a 
notice of every one of them. — J. D. 

The Leaves of Oak Trees much consumed and injured by the countless 
Caterpillars of the small pea-green Moth (Tortrix viridina). —\n Vol. V. 
p- 610. is described one instance : allow me to add another. The oak woods 
in the Beulah grounds at Norwood have, for the last three years, suffered 
much from the small caterpillars of this insect; and, besides that the 
beauty of the foliage has not been recovered until past midsummer, the 
growth of the oaks has been, of course, greatly retarded. I should be 
happy to learn a preventive of the deeds of these depredators. —J. D. 
Smith. Beulah Spa, Norwood, Jan. 9. 1833. 

Other instances of the ravages effected by Tortrix viridana, while in its 
caterpillar state, will be found described in the Magazine of Natural 
History, vol. v. p. 669., and in the number for July, 1833.— J. D. 

Farm Horses fed on steeped Barley. (Vol. VIII. p. 613.) — Sir, I ven- 
ture to acquaint X Y (Vol. VIII. p. 613.) with what I know respecting 
the steeping of barley for agricultural horses. It is merely to steep it 48 
hours in a close-wrought wicker basket, fixed into a cask of water, for the 
convenience of draining it when taken out. It is then laid on the floor to 
sprout, where it requires some little care. The kernels should be examined 
by opening them; and if the nib of the sprout is half-way up, it is then 
ready to use; if suffered to grow through the kernel, then the saccharine 
matter will be exhausted, and the nutritious part lost. No more should 
be steeped at one time than is used at this state of vegetation. I never 
heard of more than one conviction and fine for the practice, which was by 
the magistrates of Hempnall, near Norwich, three or four years since, 
when a person was fined 10/., which was mitigated to 5/.; but whether the 
conviction was legal or not, I cannot say. The practice is very common, 
and horses fed upon it do well. — Thomas Hitchen, Norwich. Oct. 20. 1832. 

The Malting of Maize or Indian Corn.—Any correspondent would very 
much oblige me by describing the best method of malting Indian corn, as 
practised in America or elsewhere. — A Constant Reader. 

We hope some American reader, or European reader familiar with the 
American practice, will be kind enough to do this at sight. — Cond. 

What Garden Syringe is the best, and the least liable to go out of order? 
— Charles M. Willich. 24. Suffolk Street, Pall Mall, Feb. 12. 1833. 

Our opinion is that Read’s, taken altogether, is the best ; but we should 
be glad to hear the opinion of others who have had more experience. — 
Cond. 


ART.IV. Covent Garden Market. 


THE Capacity of Measures used in Covent Garden Market. — Information 
on this subject has been asked by B. Bevan, of Leighton, in Vol. VII. 
p- 255.3 and by J. W. L., in Vol. VIIL. p.374. The former correspondent 
has at length investigated the subject for himself, and, in the Mechanics’ 
Magazine, of May 18. 1833, has published the result of his investigation. 
“ To obtain,” he remarks, “ this [required] information for myself and 
others, I purchased a new set of these measures of one of the principal 
venders in the market, and have ascertained their capacities, heaped 
measure, to be as follows: — The sieve contained 1644 cubic inches, or 
about half a bushel; the half sieve, 822 cubic inches, or about a peck ; the 
quarter of a sieve, 362 cubic inches, or about a gallon: the largest punnet, 
248 cubic inches; the second punnet, 228 cubic inches, or about a pottle; 
the third punnet, 90 cubic inches, or about a quart ; the smallest punnet, 


Covent Garden Market. 381 


60 cubic inches, or about 14 pint. These dimensions show nearly the quan- 
tity sold under these denominations; the precise quantity will of course 
depend upon the manner of filling and heaping them.” 

What is the Quantity included in “a Bunch” of each Kind of Article sold 
by the Bunch in Covent Garden Market ? — Mr. Bevan asks this question 
in these words : — “ There are some articles usually sold by the bunch: if 
any of your London correspondents will but take the trouble to ascertain 
the medium weight of these bunches, much of the obscurity so long resting 
upon these matters will be removed. It would also be giving very useful 
information, if any person would publish an account of the weight, in 
pounds, of the quantities usually sold by the sieve, half sieve, and punnet.” 
— Cond. 


: From To From To 
The Cabbage Tribe. So ¢dleaa eile Sue 
Cabbage, White, per dozen| 0 0 6] 0 1 O/|/ Watercress, per dozen small 
Plants, or Coleworts, p.doz.|0 1 6|0 2 0 bunches - - -- {00 4/0 0 6 
Burnet, per bunch - |0 0 3/0 0 0 
Legumes. 
Hers, per half Bev = ¢ 10 4 e ip ; Pot and Sweet Herbs. 
Srged Peo B OL Sierra Tarra d 0401000 
es } gon, per dozen bunch. 
Pacey Beate, forced, per 2610 0 0|| Fennel, per dozen bunches|0 1 6]0 0 0 
PES 5 % Thyme, per dozen bunches 5 Z c ‘ * 5 
: . Sage, per dozen bunches - 
d Ce thr 5 O O10 O 0 Mint, per dozen bunches -|0 2 6|0 0 0 
Potatoes - $ per owt 05 0/0 60 Fepperming died, per dle, Hiahtodowond 
F pasion) O 2 61 Oo 0 Marjoram, dried, per dozen 
Kidney, per bushel - |0 3 0)0 0 0 Banas i ~ 10101000 
Scorch, per bushel - 4 2 8 ‘ 3 ‘ Savory, dried, per doz. bun.| 0 1 0|)0 0 0 
Tae CR ee Basil, dried, per dozen bun.| 0 1 3/0 0 0 
Spaibiers sue 5) P 016/020 Rosemary, dried, per dozen ye Galea & 
. P z 2 bunches S : 
Turnips, White, per bunch} 0 0 2/0 0 3 Lavender, dried, per dozen 
Senos Pet pana 3 004/100 6 bunches c - |0 2 6};0 0 0 
Young eee AE SS ILA, 0 0-8 0 1 0 Tansy, dried, per doz. bun. | 0 1 6|0 0 0 
Horn - - - 1 0 2 . : 
Red Beet, perdozen - |0 1 0/0 1 6]| Stalks end fruits Jer Tarts, 
Skirret, per bunch a iO 1 6/0 O © ickling, Sc. 
Scorzonera, per bundle - | 0 1 0|0 1 3j/ Rhubarb Stalks, per bundle] 0 0 6/0 1 6 
Salsify, per bunch -=-/010/01 8 i 
Horseradish, per bundle- |0 2 6/0 4 0 Edible Fungi and Fuci. 
Radishes : 
Mushrooms, per pottle - | 0 0 00 0 
nied: | per dozen hands 008 0 Morels, dried, per pound -|012 0/0 0 0 
PO SO GREN) ee Truffles, English, dried, per 
White and Red Turnip, anil ™ NO Ol@ oO o 
perbunch = - - |0 0 1/0 P : 
The Spinach Tribe. Fruits. 
. per sieve - |0 1 0] 0 1 6G|| Apples, per bushel : 
Spinach per half sieve- |0 0 9|0 1 0|| Nonpareil — - - | 110 . 9 0 ; 
Sorrel, per half sieve - 10/0 0 0 a cen ow - 4 2 i e a f 
akin 2 
The Onion Tribe. Pears, Dessert, Bon Chré. ates fae 
Onions, old, per bushel - |0 2 6/0 3 6 tiens, per dozen - |0 0 
WI Ciboul Almonds, per peck - |0 6 03/0 0 O 
pen benGh ae 0 0 3/0 0 O| Cherries, per pound = - ee ; 1 g 0 
Leeks, per dozen bunches |0 0 9/0 1 6] . per 3 sieve 6 0) 
Girlicaner pound - - /0 9 8/0 00 GcopeBenries per pottle 00 9;0 1 0 
Shallots, per pound - - 0 0 8|0 O O/|| Strawberries, forced, per Rea AN tava 
ounce - - - 
Asparaginous Plants, Pine-apples, per pound - |0 8 0|016 0 
Salads, &c. | Hot-house Grapes, perlb: |0 5 0/015 0 
Asparagus, large, per hund.| 0 3 6|0 5 0|, Cucumbers, Braue, p. brace j Z 5 f 3 0 
STS Oe ad aN 0/0 2 o| Oranges ES hundkedD 0.3 6/014 0 
Lettuce, per score : perdozen .~ 
‘Ge we = 5 (0-2 6)o-e oy eee ee hundred |0 5 0|014 0 
Cabbage - - |0 0 6}|0 O Q9| Sweet Almonds, perpound|]0 2 6/0 0 0 
Celery, per bundle (12to15)} 0 0 9/0 1 6] Brazil Nuts, per bushel - 8 12 g K a6 
Small Salads perZ sieve |0 2 0] 0 O 0] Spanish Nuts, per peck - 2) 
perpunnet |}0 0 2/0 0 0 ere per peck - |0 5 04/0 0 0 


Observations. — An intended absence from London obliges me to send 
this list somewhat earlier than usual, which I regret, as the lapse of a 
week or ten days, at this time of the year, makes avery material difference 


382 London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


in the prices, as well as the supplies of very many articles usually found in 
our market. The supply of vegetables keeps gradually increasing as the 
season advances; but, from the continued lateness of the spring, owing to 
the coldness of the weather, and great prevalence of rain during the month 
of April, we have, as yet, found the demand rather better than usual. In 
speaking of asparagus (in the quotation as to price), that of the day is 
meant ; as, very recently, within a week or ten days, four times the price has 
been obtained: but, as the supply will now be more regular, no great change, 
but a gradual decline in value, may be expected; peas are as yet very 
scarce; only two half sieves in the market, for which the price quoted has 
been obtained: in the course of the ensuing week a considerable alteration 
will take place, as several growers will have them ready to bring in that 
time; and, perhaps, in all the articles brought to our market, none is liable 
to so rapid a fall, owing to the article being one of very general demand, 
and equally general production. Rhubarb still maintains its value as an 
esculent, and may now be considered as an article of material importance 
to the cultivators, who keep increasing their growth, and improving the 
varieties. Sea-kale is also (earlier in the season) an article of very con- 
siderable consequence, and most extensively furnished, being, in many 
instances, now cultivated by the acre, instead of (as heretofore) in detached 
portions. French beans (of course, forced) have been plentiful, and 
moderate in price; but, like asparagus, will probably be worth more before 
the supplies from the open ground can be expected. Strawberries are at 
present abundant, and of excellent quality; the improved method of cul- 
tivating in houses, or pits by themselves, instead of placing them on the 
shelves of a stove, where they are at all times more or less shaded, and 
prevented from receiving an ample supply of light and air, enables the 
gardener to send them to market in much better condition. Pine-apples, 
of good size, are very scarce; smaller are more plentiful: but the supply is 
at present very limited. Grapes are more plentiful, and of excellent qua- 
lity. No appearance of peaches or nectarines; nor any expected until 
early in June. A few cherries have been sent, and a few raspberries, but 
not in sufficient quantities to make them an article of any importance. It 
is generally reported that the wall-fruit has been injured by the cold rains 
in April. Most other fruits are spoken of favourably; but it is quite im- 
possible to form any correct estimate at present. The stock of onions is 
now nearly exhausted, and those growers who have held them over are 
getting better prices: but the supplies are yet considerable. Potatoes 
have been furnished, as usual, from all parts of the coast in tolerable abun- 
dance; the prices continue moderate.—- G. C. May 14. 1833, 


Art. V. Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Marcu 19. 1833.— Read. A communication on the Culture of the 
Potato, by T. A. Knight, Esq. It was announced from the chair that the 
4th part of the first volume of the new series of the Society’s Transactions 
would be ready for delivery on the first day of May. 

Distributed. Scions of the golden Harvey and King of the pippins 
apples; and of the Flemish beauty, Nelis dHiver, and Beurré Bosc 
pears. 

Exhibited. Dendrobium speciosum, from the Rev. Mr. Huntley. Ca- 
méllia Reevési?, Rawesidna, and two seedling kinds; and specimens of 
butter from cows fed on mangold wurzel, and on hay, from J. Allnutt, 
Esq. E’pacris purpurascens, variabilis, impréssa; rica vérnix coccinea ; 
Camellia concinna, rotundifolia, eclipse, althzeeflora, from Messrs. Chan- 
dler and Sons. Some lemons grown in Essex. 


London Horticultural Society and Garden. 883 


From the Garden of the Society. Azalea indica pheenicea, indica Alba, 
indica hybrida; Camélléa imbricata, Colvilli; Franciscea Hopedna, Dra- 
cze‘na stricta. 

April 2.— Read. The Meteorological Journal kept in the Society’s 
Garden through 1832. 

Exiubitions at the Society's Garden. The Vice-President (Dr. Hender- 
son) announced that a sufficient number of tickets had been subscribed 
for, to enable the Council to make the requisite preparations for the Exhibi- 
tions at the Garden in the months May, June, and July, and that the first 
Exhibition would take place on Saturday the 25th day of May. The 
show in May is to be for flowers, that in June for flowers, that in July 
for flowers and fruit. On each occasion, one or more large silver medals, 
and four or more Banksian medals will be awarded to those who exhibit 
the best productions. Messrs. Gunter are engaged to supply refresh- 
ments, at regulated prices, to the visiters. These exhibitions are in lieu 
of the féte which has hitherto annually been given. s 

Distributed. Scions of the Dutch mignonne, Beachamwell, and Irish 
peach apples; of the Marie Louise glout morceau pears. 

Exhibited. Azalea indica alba, sinénsis, from J. Horsley Palmer, Esq., 
his gardener being Seward Snow. ‘Two brace of very fine cucumbers, 
from R. H. Cox, Esq., grown by his gardener, Mr. Weeding. Acacia deal- 
bata, grown in the open air near Winchester, in great perfection, from the 
Rev. T. Garnier. Ten kinds of Caméllia, E‘pacris nivalis, Dillw¥nia 
Junipérina, from the Messrs. Chandler. Ears and straw of millet, raised in 
1832; seeds and stalks of French cress, raised in 1832, from H. S. Mat- 
thews, Esq. A seedling Rhododéndron, obtained from between R. arbo- 
reum and R. catawbiénse, from Mr. H. Burn. A garden engine on an 
improved plan, from Mr. Read. 

Trom the Society’s Garden. A specimen of Oldaker’s seedling pine- 
apple, and a collection of flowers. 

April 16.— Read. A paper on the Preservation of Peas for Winter 
Use, by Mr. Thomas Blake, F. H. S. : 
Exhibited. Azalea indica pheenicea, from Mrs. Marryat. A cucumber, 
from J. Allnutt, Esq. A hoe, from Colonel Le Couteur, of Jersey. Spe- 
cimens of hoes, from Lord Vernon. A noble plant of Phaius Tanker- 
ville, bearing seven spikes of flowers, from Mr. George Mills, gardener to 
Alexander Copeland, Esq. Cyrtopodium Andersoni, 5 ft. high, from 

Richard Harrison, Esq. 

From the Garden of the Society. Flowers: Bérberis glumacea, fascicu- 
laris, Aquifolium, and heterophylla; J‘ris tuberésa, Erythrina herbacea, 
Gloxinia cauléscens; Caméllia reticulata and speciosa; Rzbes sanguineum, 
three varieties of; R. atreum przcox; Gesnéria Douglas; Am*edalus 
macrocarpa ; Anomathéca cruénta; Justicza flavicoma, and Narcissi. 

Lecture. It was announced that the first Lecture on Botany applied to 
Horticulture would be given on the 24th instant. 

May 1. 1833. — The Anniversary Meeting was held, and the Report of 
the Proceedings of the Society through the past year read, and officers 
elected for the year ensuing. 

May %.— Read. A paper on Rockworks in Botanic Gardens, by Pro- 
fessor Schranck. 

Exhibited. From Mrs. Marryat, Caméllia flérida, Narcissi, Tukpa 
Clusiana, Wistaria Consequana, Phlox procumbens, Aneméne stellata 
Dec., Bilbérgia nudicailis, Calanthe veratrifolia. A garden syringe, 
from Mr. Read. An Enville pine-apple, from P. D. Cooke, Esq. 
Erica aristata major, from Mr. John Cornelius, Drayton Green. Sweeney 
nonpareils, from T. H. Parker, Esq. An unnamed kind of apple, 


384 Obituary. 


from Mr. James Young. Magndlia gracilis and Soulangedna, and a collec- 
tion of kinds of heart’s-ease, from Mr. C. Brown. From Messrs. Chan- 
dler, Rhododéndron fragrans, and a variety of R. catawbiénse; Trillium 
egrandiflorum, Chorézema Henchmanni, and a variety of Chorézema, Bra- 
chyséma latifolium, E/pacris paludésa, Templetonia glaica, Daviesea longi- 
folia, Azalea indica var. Smithi, Cyclamen hederzefolium. 

From the Garden of the Society. Flowers: Ribes setosum, spicatum, 
lacdstre, niveum, inebrians, céreum, irriguum triflorum, divaricatum, mul- 
tiflorum, aGreum sanguineum, atireum serétinum; Pyrus spectabilis. 
Bérberis fascicularis, répens ; Fritillaria pérsica major, pyrenaica, double- 
blossomed cherry, double-blossomed furze, single-flowered and double- 
flowered tulips, Erythrina herbacea, Gesnéra bulbdsa; Hibiscus Uiliflorus, 
Rosa sinénsis; Schizanthus pimnatus var. humilis, Paonia Moutan papa- 
veracea, Anagyris indica; Magnolia Soulangedna, obovata; Rosa Banks- 
iana lutea, Scilla campanulata, Wistaria Consequana; Cytisus ruthénicus, 
elongitus; Spire‘a tatrica; Fothergilla alnifolia obtusa, Gardeni; Prunus 
serrulata, or double-flowered Chinese cherry ; Caméllia reticulata; Cypri- 
pedium spectabile, wild cherry from Russia, Pyrus prunifolia, Teéllima 
erandiflora, Rubus spectabilis. 


Art. VI. Obituary. 


Diep, at Elleray, near Ambleside, on the 20th of March last, Mr. 
Alexander, upwards of ten years gardener to Professor Wilson, at that 
place. Mr. Alexander was only in the 44th year of his age, and has left 
behind him a widow and several children, the care of whom will now de- 
volve upon his eldest son; a very intelligent and estimable youth, who, 
we feel confident, will fulfil the arduous duties required of him under such 
circumstances, as well as the world will permit him. 

Died, on the 4th of April, 1833, at the Haverstock Nursery (also called 
Eshcol Place), in the Hampstead Road, Mr. Daniel Money, proprietor of 
that nursery, aged 70 years. He had experienced a gradual declension from 
his general good health for only three months preceding his death, which 
was induced by natural decay. Mr. Money was a sensible, honest-hearted 
man, and the residence of these qualities within him was bespoken by a 
straightforward homeliness and heartiness of manner. He had devoted 
his whole life to gardening, and established the Haverstock Nursery, in 
which he cultivated a collection of the more generally desired shrubs and 
herbaceous plants ; but distinguished himself by collecting, and propagating 
for sale, vines of all the superior kinds of grape. He possessed an intimate 
knowledge of the qualities and merits of most of the varieties worthy of 
notice, and gave his customers the benefit of this knowledge, by recommend- 
ing to them none but the best kinds. Many can attest the truth of this 
assertion. Mr. Money named the Haverstock Nursery, Eshcol Place, in 
allusion to the brook “ Eshcol,” whence the spies of the Israelites brought 
the famous grapes spoken of in the book of Numbers, chap. xiii. verses 23. 
and 24.; and it is in allusion to this idea that the name Muscat Eshcollata 
is applied to his famous new grape, which was advertised in the Gardener's 
Magazine for December, 1831 (page 2. of the advertising sheet), and 
which will be found noticed in Vol. VII. p. 742, 743., as shown at meet- 
ings of the London Horticultural Society. 

The business of the Haverstock Nursery is continued by Mrs Money, 
the widow, and her grandson, Mr. Daniel Money. 


THE 


GARDENER'’S MAGAZINE, 


AUGUST, 1833. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Art.I. Notes and Reflections made during a Tour through Part 
of France and Germany, in the Autumn of the Year 1828. By 
the ConDUCcTOR. 


(Continued from p. 269.) 


Tur principal gardens of Bavaria are the property of the 
crown or the government, and are, for the most part, situ- 
ated in the neighbourhood of Munich. We have before 
(Vol. IV. p. 491.) given an outline of our tour through the 
Duchy of Baden, by the romantic valley of Kinzigthal, 
across the Black Forest, through Denaueschingen (source of 
the Danube), Ehingen, Ulm, and Augsburg, to the Bavarian 
capital; and we shall here offer a few notices of the gardens 
which we visited, in respect to landscape-gardening, floricul- 
ture, horticulture, and arboriculture ; concluding with a notice 
of the state of agriculture, rural architecture, and territorial 
and domestic improvement generally. 

Landscape-gardening is more encouraged in Bavaria than 
it is in any other state of Germany. The first impulse given 
to this taste was by the laying out of the English garden of 
Munich, under the direction of Count Rumford, by Louis 
Sckell, in 1789. Previously to that period, Maximilian I. 
had a geometric garden planted in Munich in 1614; and, 
subsequently, Maximilian Joseph greatly enlarged Nymphen- 
burg, added the English garden by Sckell, and formed an 
extensive botanical collection. ‘The present king, Louis I., 
an author, a poet, and.a great lover and encourager of the 

Vou. 1X.— No. 45. cc 


386 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


fine arts, is much more attached to building than to any 
other description of improvement; and, contrary, as we be- 
lieve, to the wishes of the majority of the nation, has sunk 
immense sums in a massive palace in the Tuscan manner; in 
a glyptothek, or building for statues and sculptures; in a 
pinakothek, or building for pictures; and in a variety of 
other buildings of luxury, for himself, for his relations, or for 
public display. The only argument that can be urged in 
favour of these buildings is, that they are generally in exceed- 
ingly good taste. 

The palace of Schleissheim is an immense Italian building, 
with Venetian chimney-tops, never entirely completed. The 
park and gardens are perfectly flat, and of great extent. 
Water, walls, terraces, and vases, which, with the palace, 
must have been erected at an enormous expense, were, in 
1828, in a deplorable state of decay. ‘The kitchen-garden 
forms part of one of the extensive government nurseries 
elsewhere described. ‘The coach-houses and stable offices 
constitute the buildings of the Schleissheim agricultural esta- 
blishment, under the direction of M. Schonleutner, in which 
pupils are instructed in all the departments of agriculture, 
both theoretically and practically. 

The garden of the palace of Anspach contains twenty or 
thirty acres, laid out in the simplest form of the French 
manner, being intersected by walks, so as to throw it into 
square and parallelogram compartments, bordered by rows 
of trees. Some of these compartments are in turf, but the 
greater part are used as a royal nursery of fruit trees; the 
king of Bavaria being unquestionably the greatest nursery 
gardener in Europe. There is an orangery here, that has 
long been celebrated in Germany: it is about 300 ft. long, 
30 ft. high, and 30 ft. wide: it contains 107 large orange 
trees in boxes, which were, in November, 1828, covered with 
fruit. ‘The stems of some of these trees were upwards of a 
foot in diameter, and the heads from ten to twelve feet across. 
There were a few other common green-house plants, such as 
pomegranates, olives, myrtles, &c. In an adjoining green- 
house was a small collection of ordinary green-house plants, 
and there were pits and frames for forcing and protecting 
culinary vegetables, In travelling through a small kingdom, 
like that of Bavaria, it is impossible not to be struck by the 
circumstance, that every thing great and good, in the way of 
architecture and gar dening, belongs to the king ; and one 
cannot help feeling it to be singular, that a people who are 

at once poor and enlightened, should submit to the very 


Gardens of Nymphenburg. 387 


heavy burden of taxes which are necessary to keep up these 
expensive establishments. 

The palace and gardens of Nymphenburg are situated about 
four miles from Munich, on a perfectly flat surface, without 
any distant prospect, the country around being elevated 
table-land for several miles in every direction. ‘There never 
was an English garden the merits of which might be more 
completely ascertained by the study of the plan. (jg. 99.) 
These gardens were laid out by Louis Sckell, and contain 
two of the finest jets of water in Germany. ‘These jets are 
not supplied by elevated fountains, but by the pressure pro- 
duced, in one case, by a machine driven by water, and in 
another, by a steam engine: both are the invention of the 
Chevalier Baader, the chief of the engineers of the mines of 
Bavaria. ‘The water is forced into strong hemispherical air- 
vessels by pumps, driven by undershot water-wheels: these 
air-vessels are connected by tubes, which unite in a main, 
which supplies a jet, shown in the ground plan (fg. 99.), and 
in the view. (fig. 104.) Air is drawn in along with the water ; 
and, when it escapes by the jet, it makes a loud crackling 
noise. ‘The use of the air-vessels, however, is not to supply 
this air; but, by the powerful compression the air in them 
undergoes, to afford a compensating resistance to the water, 
at any moment when the power of the pumps diminishes or 
becomes irregular. ‘These vessels, in short, serve the same 
purpose in hydraulics as the fly-wheel does in mechanics. 
Several animals were at one time kept in this garden, but at 
present there are only some beavers. 

When the natural disadvantages of Nymphenburg, with 
regard to situation and climate, are considered, it must be 
allowed to be one of the greatest and the most successful 
gardening efforts in Germany. ‘The trees, it will be seen 
from the plan, are beautifully massed and grouped; and, at 
the same time, breadth of lawn is preserved and depth of 
view maintained. ‘The straight walks, om both sides of the 
central canal, are lined with large orange trees in the semmer 
season. As compared with English gardens, however, of the 
same extent and style, the gardens at Nymphenburg are 
deficient in evergreens, and in variety of trees and shrubs; 
but this defect is owing to the climate. As far as art is con- 
cerned, the late M. Sckell and his successor have done every 
thing that modern skill in planting, and in artificially un- 
dulating the surface, could suggest. Lvery part of these 
gardens is open to the public at all times, without any dis- 

co 2 


388 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


tinction of persons, and without any fee to the gardener. In 
fact, fees to gardeners are almost unknown on the Continent ; 


Se ge eee) 


<P 


Ze 


1, Aviary and cottage, 8, Buildings connected with the palace, for 
2 22, Sunk fence, in order to admit of a view different officers, troops, &c. 

beyond the boundary. 9, Cascade. 10, Straight canal. 
3, Garden pavilion, 11 11,*Jets proceeding from rocks, which throw 
4, Statues. the water, in hollow columns nearly Qin. 
5, Covered seat or alcove, in diameter, upwards of 80 ft. high. 
6, Range of hot-houses in the botanic garden. 12, Centre of the palace. 


7, Kitchen-garden. 13, Cascade. 14, Straight canal. 


Gardens of Nymphenburg. 389 


whilst, in all the show places in England, they form the prin- 
cipal part of the gardener’s income, 


99 


a 


ev UY), 


B 


Ze a 


MMMM 


1n0 200 300 100  500Ft. 
f BOP 

15, Small temple. 16, Grecian temple. 24, Private flower-garden and summer-house. 
17, Garden pavilion, containing pictures, sta- 25, Private flower-garden and open bower. 

tues, china, &c. 26, Private garden and entrance to the palace. 
18, Place for beavers. 27, Quadrangle of buildings for the officers of 
19, Gamekeeper’s cottage. the court, and their establishments. 
20, Pheasantry. 21, Engine-house. 28, Small gardens for the officers of the court. 


29° Bridge and water-wheel. 29, Poultry yard, sheds, and Keeper’s cottage. 
93, Banqueting-house for the use of the public. 30, Shelters for game, ; 


cc 3 


390 Notes and Reflections during a Tour ;: — 


A curious description of boat (_ jigs. 100. to 102.), the inven- 
tion of M. Baader, is used on the waters of the gardens at 


Nymphenburg during the summer season. It consists of two 
small boats (a), on which a platform is fixed (5); and on this 


Palace of Nymphenburg. 391 


platform a chair may be placed, in which a person may sit, 
and read, or angle, or shoot; and either float about as the 
wind may direct, or guide himself by working with his feet 
the two paddles marked c, 

The architecture of the palace of Nymphenburg is by no 
means proportionate to the magnificence of the gardens ; but, 
we believe, it is more intended as a simple country house, than 
as a splendid regal residence. In the view of the entrance 
front (jig. 104.), and in the plan (jig. 99.), the multitude of 
parts into which this palace and its dependent buildings are 
divided, give the whole more the air of a market-place sur- 
rounded by dwellings, than of a palace residence in the 
country. ‘This impression, however, is counteracted by the 


trees, the long canal, and the grandeur of the jets d’eau. 
cc 4 


Chateau of Berg. 393 


‘The range of stoves and green-houses in the botanic gar- 
den at Nymphenburg (jig. 103.) is very substantial, with 
opaque roofs; and the interiors are remarkably well finished, 
and heated by German stoves, concealed among the alam, 
and supplied with fuel from the sheds behind. The collection 
of palms in the stove, in November, 1828, consisted of about 
70 species, all large plants, recently procured from Holland. 
The catalogue of the open garden, published in 1826, by Ster- 
ler, contains upwards of 3000 species of herbaceous plants. 

The royal chateau of Berg, on the lake of Wurmsee, is a 
private summer retreat of the king’s, on the nearest ay and 
picturesque ground to Munich. The house is nothing; but 
the srounds, which occupy 200 acres, are hilly, irregular, 
rocky, bordered by an immense lake, and very picturesque. 
The groundwork of the wood was the remains of a forest, 
composed chiefly of beech, hornbeam, and spruce fir. This 
wood Louis Sckell has judiciously enriched, and distin- 
guished from the common woody scenery of that country, 
by the introduction of a number of exotics; and he has dis- 
played the whole to the greatest advantage, by walks, by 
baring the rocks in some places, by deepening the glades in 
others, and by shutting out or exposing to view exterior 
objects, as the effect might require. The cherry is the only 
fruit tree that will thrive here as a standard, so severe are 
the winters. ‘The walks are made of calcareous tuffa; and, 
being brimful, of a brownish colour, and firmly rolled, 
become as hard as solid stone, and in appearance are onl 
inferior to Kensington gravel. This tuffa, which is the de- 
position of the limestone of the country, is perfectly soft 
when taken out of the quarry; but it very soon afterwards 
becomes hard: it is put upon the walks in a state of powder, 
only six or eight inches thick, and immediately rolled. As 
many of the walks at Wurmsee are on very steep surfaces, 


394 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


were it not for the description of material of which they are 
composed, they would be constantly washed down by the 
rains. So formed, they scarcely ever require either weeding 
or future repair. 

The chateau of Baron Eichthal, at Ebersberg, is more 
remarkable for being the residence of a distinguished Bava- 
rian patriot, who has introduced Scottish agriculture on his 
estate, than for its gardening. The situation, however, is of 
singular grandeur and beauty. ‘The chateau is placed on an 
elevated platform, on one side of a basin, which has once 
been a lake, but which is now covered with fertile fields, and 
surrounded by hills, partially wooded, having one outlet by a 
valley, in the extreme distance of which is seen Hohenlinden, 
the site of the famous battle of that name. A plan (fg. 105.) 
for laying out a pleasure-ground in front of the chateau 
was formed, in 1824, by Charles Sckell; and, as it is in- 
structive, as illustrating his manner, we shall submit it with 
its details : — 


100 50 «(0 100 200 300 400 ft. 
a, Dwelling-house. 6, Stable offices. ‘ce, Orangery. d, Temple. e, Frames and pits. 


The following numbers indicate the kinds, and the dis- 
position, of the trees and shrubs : — 


1, Fraxinus excélsior. 16, Z’sculus Hippocastanum, 30, Catdipa syringefodlia. 

2, A’cer Psetido-Platanus. 17, Pépulus balsamifera, 31, Cornus Alba. 

3, Rosa centifolia. 18, Rdsa semperfldrens. 32, Crate‘gus Oxyacfntha fi. 
4, Syringa pérsica,. 19, VibGrnum vdseum. rubro. 

5, Pépulus italica. 20, Robinza inérmis. 33, Jiiglans cinérea. 

6, Prinus Padus. 21, Liriodéndron Tulipifera. 54, Cytisus Labirnum. 

7, Acer Negundo. 22, Rhus Cétinus. 85, Rubus odoratus. 

8, Pépulus canadénsis. 23, Céltis occidentalis. 36, Spire‘a Aypericifolia. 

9, Spirze‘a opulifolia. 24, Pyrus spectabilis. 37, U lmus campéstris. 
10, Spirze‘a crenata. 25, Lonfcera cerilea. 38, A’Inus glutindsa. 
11, Syringa vulgaris. 26, Lonicera tatarica. 39, A’cer platandides. 

12, Robinéa Psetd- Acacia. 27, Syringa vulgaris flbre rQ- 40, Philadélphus coronarius. 
13, Pépulus cAndicans. bro. 41, Platanus occidentalis. 
14, Prinus Mahaleb. 28, Syrénga. chinénsis. 42, Pdépulus alba. 

15, A’cer dasycarpum. 29, Robinia viscdsa. 


The garden and grounds of Ceunt Monteglas, at Boger- 
hausen, near Munich (fg.106-.), are partly situated on a 


“Uspreg ay} Ista Aa} UayA ATIuIeJ 8,3UN09 ayy 0} asSNOY-JoWIUUNS & se SuIAIaS £93e}}09 ssIMG anbseinjord W ‘a 
‘uapies ysi[suq o1qnd ay} wor sejgayuo;y Jo Y1ed oy} sojzeredas Yo ‘AaS] JOATA oULT, ‘P 

‘paeA-ure £9 ‘Suysixe Apearle sasnoy-joy pue uepres-usyojT yy “q 

‘sadqjo pue uolsueu pasodorg ‘a 


Ee ee Ee ory en 
= =e 


i) 


iB 


we 


23 
a 
Be 


Bios Sa 
REM ES 


shee 


ase 


396 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


piece of alluvial soil, left by the Iser, and partly on a high 
bank. There is no house; but when Louis Sckell laid out 
the grounds, he did so with a view to a situation, on which it 
is supposed the son of the present count will build. In the 
mean time, the kitchen-garden and forcing-ground here are 
the most celebrated of the private gardens about Munich for 
showy flowers. Pine-apples are also grown in considerable 
quantity, and every description of forcing is practised. ‘There 
is a good collection of orange and lemon trees ; two hundred 
sorts of Pelargonium; five species and twenty varieties of 
Cineraria; a genus which seems to sport here as much as 
Brassica or Georgina. Bulbs are forced very early in this 
garden; and J ‘ris chinénsis is much valued for the same 
purpose. Knoll, or bulbous-rooted, celery is grown here 
and in the other kitchen-gardens about Munich, to the utter 
exclusion of the common celery. Mignonette is grown, 
throughout the winter, in pits; and also Zbéris umbeliata, 
which, when turned out of the pots, in spring, attains a large 
size in the open border. There are seventeen sorts of Chrys- 
anthemum sinénse, eighty sorts of stocks, and a number of 
varieties of China roses. Among the conspicuous plants of 
the green-house are Lavandula multifida and Leonotis Leo- 
nurus. ‘The fruit trees here are all named; and, every 
autumn, their stems are rubbed over with tallow mixed with 
bruised gunpowder, which is found to keep away the hares. 
Count Monteglas, though at present not in favour at court, 
is considered the regenerator of Bavaria; having, after the 
breaking out of the French revolution, been the first German 
minister who induced his government to abolish monastic 
institutions, and to appropriate the estates belonging to them 
to the use of the government, and for the maintenance of a 
national system of education; and also to establish a repre- 
sentative system of government. We brought home with us an 
excellent portrait of this enlightened and benevolent nobleman. 

The garden of the Prince of Tour and Taxis, at Ratis- 
bon, is laid out in what is there considered the English 
manner, and is not without some agreeable glades and points 
of view. ‘There is a handsome pavilion, as a substitute for a 
mansion, with two wings, which serve at the same time as 
apartments for receiving company, giving fétes, and preserv- 
ing plants. One of these wings is heated to the temperature 
of the tropics, and contains palms, scitamineous plants, the 
bamboo, orchideous epiphytes, &c.; the other contains 
orange trees, camellias, and Chinese, Japan, Cape, and Aus- 
tralian plants. On entering the grounds, a board, elevated 
on a post, invites all to enter and enjoy themselves who 


Gardens at Nurembure. 397 


come without dogs, and who aré lovers and friends of nature. 
On the whole, these grounds may be considered as a delight- 
ful public garden for the inhabitants of Ratisbon. 

The gardens of Baron Wohnlich, at Augsburg, are not 
extensive, but. they contain a considerable variety in the dis- 
position of the parts, and in the trees and shrubs. ‘There is 
also a collection of Cape and Australian plants, and some 
good orange trees. 

The gardens of Madame Heppe, at Nuremburg, are the 
richest in Bavaria in botanical interest, next to those of the 
king, at Munich. They contain only five or six acres, but 
these are full of fine plants. Madame Heppe, who is a lady of 
considerable wealth, devotes the whole of her time, and the 
ereater part of her fortune, to botany and gardening. She 
has seen all the principal gardens on the Continent, and 
makes annual excursions to wherever she hears there is any 
chance of procuring an addition to her collection. The 
garden is laid out in the regular style; and contains, besides 
botanical collections, in the open ground, spaces devoted to 
showy flowers, collections of fruit trees, culinary vegetables, 
a hop-ground, two large green-houses, a large stove, numerous 
pits and frames, and the upper part of a house for the pre- 
servation of plants of rosemary, which is the only garden 
article sold by Madame Heppe, and for which there is a 
great demand in Nuremburg, during the winter season, for 
religious purposes. We observed here a good collection of 
gooseberries, a thing rare in Germany; and an arcade of 
lime trees, terminating in a perspective view of the estate of 
Madame Heppe, near Wurtzburg. Madame Heppe pursues 
the very commendable practice of every year trying to accli- 
matise a number of green-house plants; and she was the first 
in this part of Germany to find that Caprifolium flexudsum 
was quite hardy. 

Suburban Gardens at Nuremburg. —The garden of M. Wiss 
contains six or seven acres of varied surface, with a large 
lake and an island surrounded by banks, planted with trees, 
and intersected by walks, from a plan of Charles Sckell. 
The garden of M. Beitelmeyer forms a striking contrast to 
that of M. Wiss, being laid out in the French style, and, 
indeed, consisting almost entirely of small circles surrounded 
by box; each circle containing a lime tree in the centre, 
clipped to a conical shape, and underneath displaying a 
variety of low shrubs and flowers. Nothing could exhibit 
greater sameness than the general plan; but every circle, in- 
dividually, was full of beauty. We were informed that this 
garden is kept up at a great expense; the plants, which do 


398 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


not thrive under the lime trees, being continually renewed 
from the commercial gardens. ‘The garden of M. de 
Schwartz, at Weigelshoff, contains twelve or fifteen acres, and 
is laid out in a style which aims at combining a kitchen- 
garden, from which articles are sent to market, a nursery, 
from which trees are sold, and a flower-garden, in which 
tulips, hyacinths, and other bulbous roots are grown, with 
the general effect of a landscape, or English, garden. ‘The 
gardener we found a very scientific young man, a beautiful 
ichnographic draughtsman, and priding himself on his know- 
ledge of Euclid. In this garden we found the Hamburg 
parsley of an extraordinary size, and were informed that 
seeds of it, grown there, were sent by the Nuremburg 
seedsman, M. Falcke, to various parts of Europe, including 
England. We saw roots of it two inches in diameter and 
three feet long. We also saw large quantities of marsh- 
mallow roots, which are cultivated round Nuremburg by the 
acre, for the apothecaries and the paper-makers. Stramonium 
is also cultivated here for the apothecaries ; and pine-apples 
for the master’s own table, and for sale, whenever an oppor- 
tunity is offered. ‘This garden presents a singular combin- 
ation of objects for profit, and arrangements for display; and 
it is difficult to conceive how it can attain both ends; but the 
satisfaction may be in the idea of attempting to attain them. 
The garden ot M. Campe, the principal bookseller of Nu- 
remburg, is highly kept, and contains a good collection of 
green-house plants. Almost all the principal citizens of 
Nuremburg have country houses and gardens in the neigh- 
bourhood ; and such as cannot afford to have country houses 
have generally small pieces of ground, in which they cultivate 
flowers and vegetables in the mornings and evenings, in the 
same manner as is done by the inhabitants of Birmingham, 
and of many of the other manufacturing towns in England. 
These little gardens are generally situated in the interior of 
the numerous large market and seed gardens with which Nu- 
remburg is for miles surrounded. ‘The ramparts, ditch, and 
other parts of the fortification, which enclose the city, are not 
levelled down, as at Frankfort ; but they are laid out in groups 
and thickets of flowers and shrubs, with sanded walks, and 
kept in very high order at the expense of the town. 

The public gardens of Bavaria are numerous and ex- 
tensive. The English garden, at Munich (jg. 107.), is 
unquestionably the finest thing of the kind in Germany. 
It contains about 500 acres, and was laid out, in 1789, 
under the direction of Count Rumford, of whom it con- 
tains a handsome monument. ‘The plan was made by Louis 
Sckell, to whom also a monument is erected in this garden. 


Einglish Garden at Munich. 399 


107 ne) = The surface is flat; but 

s 2 a river, always containing 
abundance of water, flows 
through it ; and from this 
a lake of considerable size 
has been formed, and 
some cascades. The roads 
extend four miles. The 
trees are planted in masses 
and groups, one sort al- 
ways prevailing in one 
place ; and the only fault 
they have (as has been 
noticed by a_ talented 
writer, Vol. VI. p. 408.) 
is, that this is done in ra- 
ther too formal a manner. 
When passing through 
this garden, we could not 
help observing the effect 
of the different kinds of 
trees, even when stripped 
of their leaves. Cérnus 
sanguinea, a very con- 
spicuous red; Lonicera 
Xylosteum, white; Salix 
vitellina, yellow; birch 
stems, white; larch, yel- 
low; Spiree‘a - salicifolia, 
dwarf and brown; Hip- 
pophae rhamnoides, ver 
white; &c. The details of 
the working plan of this 
extensive garden may, 
perhaps, be given in a 
future Number. 

The Hof Garten, or 
court garden, is situated 
in Munich, in front of the 
palace. It is not exten- 
sive; but it is beautifull 
shaded by lime trees, the 
ground underneath which 
is covered with turf, and 
the turf is renewed every 
year in spring. 

The Chinese Tower, 
the Paradise, the Tivoli, 


G7 


400 


Kleinhesellohe, and Volksfeste, are other 


Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


public gardens 


within Munich, or in its suburbs; and they are all highly 
kept during the summer season. 


The garden of the Glyptothek (#g. 108.) was laid out and 


planted, in 1827, from the design of Charles Sckell. 


The 


Glyptothek (fg. 109.) is a handsome quadrangular building, 
enclosing an open court, and containing a collection of statues 


and other sculptures, arranged in chronological order. 


The 


garden is liable to the chief objection which has been made to 
the style of the Messrs. Sckell; viz. that of too great a formality 
in the masses of one kind of tree or shrub. 


Ft. 100 50 0 
et 


100 200 


L_, 


500 400 Ft. 
at 


1, Spirz‘a opulifdlia. 
2, Cytisus Labarnum. 


3, Vibtirnum O/pulus vdsea. 


4, Cornus alba. 

5, Cornus mascula. 

6, C tisus sessilifdlius. 

7, Prinus Mahdaleb. 

8, Spire‘a crenata. 

9, PSpulus candicans. 
10, Prinus Padus. 
11, Fraxinus excélsior. 

12, Robinéa Psetid- Acacia. ~ 
15, Pépulus alba. 


14, Philadélphus coronarius. 


15, Robinia viscisa. 

16, Robina hispida. 

17, Juglans cinérea. 

18, Acer Negtndo. 

19, A*cer platanoldes. 

20, Liriodéndron Tulipifera, 
21, Platanus occidentalis, 
22, U’lmus campéstris. 

23, Alnus glutindsa. 
24,"Rhis Cétinus. 

25, A’cer dasyc4rpum. 

26, ZE’sculus Hippocastanum. 


27, Crate*gus Oxyac. fl. ribro. 


28, Syringa vulgaris. 


29, Jiglans nigra. 

30, Crate‘gus coccinea. 
31, Syréinga pérsica. 

32, Lonicera tatarica. 
33, Juniperus virginiana. 
34, Thuja occidentalis. 
35, Aildntus glanduldsa. 
36, Rdsa centifodlia. 
37,Fraxinus excélsior péndula 
38, Robinza viscésa. 

39, Rubus odoratus. 

40, SOrbus aucuparia. 

41, Staphyléa pinnata, 
42, Syringa chinénsis. 


Cemetery at Munich. 401 


= a 


nil 

8 CLO TU UT ss" 

COT LT OTT Fi 
NIALL TUM TN 

~ pe TTT LL TT ETT 


it 


Pitas | 
Fis ~C 


The general cemetery at Munich is surrounded by a 
border of trees and shrubs, with the exception of one end, in 
which is placed a semicircular building, composed of an open 
colonnade in front, with vaults underneath. In the centre of 
this semicircular building is a projection behind, called the 
Leichenhaus, containing three large rooms, in two of which 
(one for males, and the other for females) the dead, as 
shrouded and deposited in their coffins by their relations, are 
exposed to view for forty-eight hours before they are com- 
mitted to the earth. ‘The other room is for suicides and 
unowned bodies. ‘The principal monuments in this cemetery 
are placed under the colonnade of the Leichenhaus, and 
against the boundary walls; and they are seen to great 
advantage from the surrounding walk. The compartments 
in the central part are bordered by shrubs, flowers, and 
tombs; and the space in the interior is devoted to graves 
without tombs, or to graves with monuments, for those who 
do not choose to go to the expense of placing them in the 
borders. Where interments take place without tombstones, 
the ground is not re-opened for seven years; and the rela- 
tions of the deceased, if they come forward when that period 
is expired, can defer it for any longer time, according to the 
payment that they may choose to make. 

The Munich cemetery, on All Saints’ day (November 1.), 
presents one of the most extraordinary spectacles that is to 
be seen in Europe. ‘The tombs and graves are decorated, in 
a most remarkable manner, with flowers natural and artificial, 
pictures, sculptures, crucifixes, vessels with meat, corn, seeds, 
water, oil, bread, &c., crape, feathers, drapery, canopies, 
branches of trees, dried moss, and, in short, with every 

Vou. 1X. — No. 45. DD 


4.02 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


conceivable object that can be applied to the purpose of 
ornament or decoration. The labour bestowed on some 
tombs requires so much time, that it is commenced two or 
three days beforehand, and protected while going on by a 
temporary roof. During the whole of the night preceding 
the 1st of November, the relations of the dead are occupied 
in completing the decorations of the tombs; and, during the 
whole of All Saints’ day and the day following, the cemetery 
is visited by the entire population of Munich, including the 
king and queen, who go there on foot, and many strangers 
from all-parts of the country. In 1828, when we were pre- 
sent, it was estimated that 50,000 persons had walked round 
the cemetery on that day; the whole, with very few excep- 
tions, dressed in black. On November 3., about mid-day, 
the more valuable decorations are removed, and the remainder 
left to decay from the effects of time and the weather. 


The garden of the general hospital at Munich ( jg. 110.) 


Munich Botanic Garden. 403 


was laid out by M. Louis Sckell, in 1815, and is well de- 
serving of imitation in the case of similar buildings. The 
only regret is, that there is not half a sufficiency of ground 
to keep the inmates employed. ‘The following are details: — 


a, Courts of the hospital. 6, House of the director. c, Overseer’s house. a, Kitchen-garden. 
e, Summer-house.  f, Temple. £ g, Sunk fences to admit the exterior scenery. 


The following are the kinds of trees and shrubs used, and 
the manner in which they are disposed : — 


1, Cérnus mascula. 12, Cy¥tisus sessilifdlius. 25, Rhus typhina. 
2, A grove of lime trees on 13, Cytisus elongatus. 26, VibGrnum 7dseum. 
turf, with benches under- 14, Cytisus nigricans. 27, Rhas Cétinus. 
neath. 15, Robinéa hispida. 28, Robinza inérmis. 
3, Cornus alba. 16, Robinia viscdsa. 99, Rdsa semperfldrens. 
4, Philadéiphus coronarius. 17, Robinza Psetd- Acacia. 30, Medicinische krauten. 
5, Ribes rbrum. 18, Lonicera tatarica. 31, Blumen. 
6, Rosa centifodlia. 19, A’cer Negindo. 32, Crate*gus Oxyacantha. 
7, C¥tisus Labarnum. 20, A*cer platanéides. 33, Syringa vulgaris. 
8, Vibfirnum vdseum. 21, Prinus Padus. 84, Syrénga pérsica. 
9, Spire‘a opulifodlia. 22, Prunus Mahdleb. 35, Syringa chinénsis. 
10, Spirz‘a hypericifolia. 93, Lonicera certlea. 36, Crate*gus coccinea. 
11, Pépulus alba. 24, Populus italica. 


Floriculture. —'The principal botanic garden in Bavaria is 
that of Munich. There are also botanic gardens at Nymphen- 
burg, Ratisbon, and a few other places. 

The botanic garden at Munich is rich in Brazilian plants, 
of which it contains a greater number of species than the 
garden at Kew. It is under the direction of the celebrated 
Dr. Martius, well known for his Travels in Brazil, and for 
various other works on natural history. ‘The garden was 
laid out by the late M. Sckell; it contains a handsome en- 
trance (fig. 111.); twenty-four compartments for the twenty- 


Za 11 


i 


it 


i 


four Linnean classes of herbaceous plants, and a marginal 
arboretum, arranged with a joint view to the natural orders 
and to picturesque beauty. The number of species is not 
numerous, because the great severity of the winter admits of 
none but natives of very cold climates. Hollies, which grow 
in the mountainous districts of Bavaria, will not endure the 
winter at Munich; neither will the box nor the furze: pines, 
firs, and junipers are almost the only hardy evergreens. The 
soil of the garden being, in common with that of the table 
land on which Munich stands, formed of the debris of mag- 


nesian limestone, is unfavourable to vegetation, and requires 
DD 2 


Ratisbon Botanic Garden. 405 


to be mixed with a good deal of surface mould or turf. 
There is black bog earth near the town, but it is found 
injurious to heath and other hair-rooted plants; and sandy 
peat is brought from a great distance. ‘The range of hot- 
houses (fg. 112.) is handsome of its kind: it contains a 
numerous collection of palms and succulents, but not many 
heaths or Australian plants. A new catalogue of this garden 
is in course of publication by Dr. Martius. Z%g. 112. ais the 
ground plan of the three hot-houses and three green-houses ; 
B, the elevation ; c, a section through the central green-house, 
which has the attendant’s room behind; and p is a section 
through the palm-house, which has the curator’s house behind. 
_ In the green-house of the botanic garden at Nymphenburg 
(see fig. 103.) was an Araucaria excélsa raised from a lateral 
frond. After this plant had been rooted for several years, 
the gardener cut it down to the ground, when it sent up 
three upright shoots, one of which he reserved as a leader. 
The plant, now a handsome tree, was presented by the king 
to the botanic garden of Erlangen. In the palm house 
(a, fig. 103.) is a large specimen of Cycas circinalis, which 
was brought by the French from Vienna to Malmaison, 
bought at the sale which took place there in 1827, for 600 
francs, and carried to Munich. Euphoria Zitcht has also 
ripened fruit; and Phoenix paluddsa and farinifera, Chame - 
rops arboréscens, and Latdnia borbonica, have attained a 
large size. Mimosa aquatica, from Senegal, the leaves of 
which are as sensitive as those of M. pudica, thrives in the 
green-house. (4, jig. 103.) Jacquinza arborea is propagated 
at Nymphenburg from leaves, which must be slipped off, 
planted in sandy leaf-mould round the edge of a pot, and 
made very firm; in six or eight months they send up a 
shoot from the base of the footstalk. Pothos acailis is raised 
from seed; which must be sown immediately when it drops 
from the plant, otherwise it will not come up. Desmodium 
adscéndens flowers freely ail the winter. All the plants in 
the green-house here are distinctly named on wooden tallies, 
stamped by printers’ types, set into a small case, screwed up 
tight, and supplied with printers’ ink in the usual manner. 
The rhododendrons and laurustinuses are kept in the green- 
house. The latter are trained with stems six feet high, with - 
thick bushy heads five feet in diameter, which are covered 
with flowers all the winter. 

The botanic garden of Ratisbon contains about an acre, 
and has a moderate collection of plants, chiefly herbaceous, 
and natives of the north of Europe, arranged according to 
the Linnean system. There is a green-house, with an opaque 

DD 3 


406 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


roof, containing a few Cape and Australian plants, with 
some which are natives of the south of Europe, and which 
stand the open air in England. Among these are the com- 
mon and Portugal laurels, the laurustinus, the arbutus, &c. 

The garden of Michael August Stottner, at Nuremburg, 
which occupies five or six acres, is celebrated for its collection 
of pelargoniums, said to be the most extensive on the Con- 
tinent. In 1829 the catalogue contained 430 names, with 
their authorities. M. Stottner, who is a wealthy amateur, has, 
with the assistance of M. Reider, a well known gardening 
author at Nuremburg, commenced a work on Geraniacez 
there, like that of Mr. Sweet. 

Floriculture, in the neighbourhood of Munich, is carried 
to a far greater extent than will readily be imagined, when 
the elevated situation and consequent severity of the climate 
are taken into consideration. ‘The ranunculus, the violet, the 
hyacinth, and the narcissus are in bloom in the hot-houses of 
the royal gardens throughout the winter; and roses, honey- 
suckles, lilacs, azaleas, rhododendrons, pinks, tulips, and 
other shrubs and flowers, are forced as successfully, and come 
as early into bloom, as in London. Chrysanthemums, in 
small pots, and only a few inches high, are cultivated, and 
forced, so as to be in bloom all the year. 

The early history of Horticulture in Bavaria has been 
already given by a Bavarian gardener. (Vol. V. p. 385.) Its 
present state is, in some respects, in advance of the art in 
England. The preservation of culinary vegetables through 
the winter is effected with wonderful success in the higher 
parts of the country, and particularly about Munich. The 
principal means made use of are, cellars deeply sunk in the 
ground, in which the vegetables are planted on shelves of 
earth; coverings of straw mats, and of thick boards, for pits 
and frames; and opaque roofs, with coverings of straw mats, 
for the front glass of hot-houses of every description. 

The royal kitchen-garden at Munich contains extensive 
hot-houses and pits for forcing; and on the wails are vines, 
for the purpose of laying down the shoots to roct into pots, 
and afterwards to ripen their fruit under glass frames, as in 
Holland and Denmark. Asparagus is here grown in the 
open air, in double rows, with a space between, which is dug 
out and filled with hot dung, while the plants are covered 
with a wooden frame. An immense quantity of asparagus is 
used by the royal family from December to February. All 
the varieties of the cabbage tribe are here taken up on the 
first approach of winter, and planted close together, in sheds 
with glass fronts, the air within being kept at a moderate 


Nymphenburg Kitchen-Garden.  ~ 407 


temperature by stoves. One of the vegetables forced during 
the winter is kohl-rabi; it is sown in October, transplanted 
in November, and begun to be gathered at Christmas, con- 
tinuing from that time to March, when the bulbosities are 
about the size of turnip radishes. Kidneybeans and mush- 
rooms are produced here during the whole winter, and also 
alpine strawberries. The latter are grown in pots ina house, 
the glass of which, in front, is nearly perpendicular. ‘The 
pots are placed on shelves, close to the glass, those having 
the fruit ripe being always on the upper shelves, where the 
air is necessarily warmest; and those last brought in being 
placed on the lower shelves, where the air is colder. As the 
fruit on the upper shelves is ripened off; and the pots re- 
moved, those on the lower shelves are brought up to supply 
their places, and pots from the frames in the open garden are 
substituted in their stead. ‘This succession is carried on 
from October to June, when strawberries ripen in pits in the 
garden, and, in the first week in July, in the open ground. 
It thus appears that the horticultural luxuries of the kings of 
Bavaria are greater than those of the kings of either France 
or Britain. It is proper here to observe, that no human art 
can ever effect in Britain what it can in Bavaria in the forcing 
of fruits during winter, on account of the steady, clear, and 
cloudless atmosphere of the latter country at that season. 
Its extreme cold may be overcome by art; but this can 
never be the case with the fogs of Britain; or, at all events, 
art has not yet been carried so far as to lead even to a hope 
of such a result. 

The kitchen-garden at Nymphenburg contains a number 
of hot-houses in which pines are kept in the winter-time, and 
pits in which they are fruited during the summer season. 
In one pit they are grown in a bed of earth in the natural 
manner, and there they remain for four or five years, pro- 
ducing numerous suckers from the stems, and a perpetual 
succession of fruit, which, though small, is high-flavoured. 
(See Vol. V. p. 427.) In October, 1828, we found ripe 
alpine strawberries in pits; and were informed that this fruit 
was produced, either in the open air or under glass, every 
day in the year. Mushrooms are also produced throughout 
the year, and abundance of salading of every description, 
including succory, grown from the old roots in cellars, and 
mustard and cress from the seeds in stoves. Cabbages, 
celery, leeks, parsley, and a number of similar vegetables, 
are planted in autumn in pits or beds, surrounded by frames 
or walls, and covered every night by wooden shutters over 


which are placed straw mats. In the most severe weather, 
DD 4 


408 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


these coverings are only taken off when some of the vege- 
tables are wanted for use. In cellars and large rooms shelves 
containing layers of earth are formed one above another; and 
im these cauliflowers, broccoli, lettuce, and other vegetables, 
are kept through great part of the winter. Endive is taken 
up, dried in a hot-house, the leaves tied close together with 
rye-straw, and the plants afterwards buried in the soil, with 
the roots upwards, and protruding a few inches above the 
surface, and the whole covered with thatch, to keep out the 
rain and the frost. In this state it will keep till spring. 
Cabbages are also kept in the same manner, both in Ger- 
many and in the highlands of Scotland. In short, the ex- 
ertions made by the German gardeners, in so severe a climate 
as that of Bavaria, are such as the British gardener can form 
little idea of; and, with the clear dry air of the country, their 
great success is alike incredible. 

The culture of asparagus at Ulm has been already given. 
(Vol. IV. p. 493.) 

The Arboriculture of Bavaria consists chiefly in planting 
trees by the sides of the public roads; the supply of timber 
being abundant from the native forests. The roadside trees 
are, for the most part, Lombardy poplars, lime trees, syca- 
mores, and elms; but none of these trees, it is to be observed, 
are planted in soils and situations where fruit trees will 
prosper and ripen their fruit. 

There are several government nurseries for the propagation 
and sale of fruit and forest trees, some of which have been 
already noticed or described (Vol. IV. p. 496., and Vol. V. 
p- 384. 424.), and we have only to add one or two others. 

The nursery of M. Schultz, between Munich and Nym- 
phenburg, consists of about two acres, chiefly devoted to 
florists’ flowers and roses. ‘There is a large green-house, 
and also a hot-house: in the former are 150 sorts of pelar- 
- goniums from Vienna, and upwards of 100 English sorts. 
‘There is a good collection of succulents, and some camellias, 
ericas, and Australian plants. Among the hardy flowers, 
twenty-four sorts of hollyhocks, five of Zinnia, 300 of 
auricula, and 350 sorts of carnation, are in the catalogue. 
The range of glass, which is about 200 ft. long, is sometimes 
covered with straw mats, for weeks together, during severe 
weather. 

The nursery at Schleissheim was laid out by M. Sckell, 
and is one of the most complete in Bavaria. It is laid out in 
parallel compartments from east to west, so that the rows in 
beds across them are from north to south; thus admitting 
the sun, once every day in the year, to every part of the 
ground’s surface. Along the walks are planted single spe- 


Hohenheim Nurseries. 409 


cimens, in alphabetical order, and handsomely named on 
wooden tallies, of all the hardy forest and fruit trees and 
shrubs cultivated. The principal part of the trees planted 
along the public roads are supplied from this nursery : they are 
generally from twelve to eighteen feet high. After being taken 
up, they are carried to a shed, and pruned, and afterwards 
placed in a cellar, to protect them from the frost till wanted. 
Shrubs of the more tender kinds are taken up and planted in 
earth in cellars; where they remain till spring, when they 
are sent to their final destination. ‘The principal object in 
removing the trees before they are wanted for the plantations 
is, to prevent the interruption of the labours and cropping of 
the nursery in the spring: every thing in this, as in the other 
departments of national gardening in Germany, going on in 
the most systematic and scientific manner. 

The nursery of M. Falcke, at Nuremburg, is situated in 
the town ; but it contains a number of select plants in pits. 
In November, 1828, we found a frame of ranunculus, and 
another of anemone, in full flower; in a green-house, Cam- 
panula pyramidalis, twelve feet high, and covered with blos- 
soms; sixty sorts of pelargoniums, fifteen sorts of Camella, 
and twelve sorts of Chrysanthemum. ‘The green-house plants 
were chiefly those of the Cape: but even in England they 
would have been considered a respectable collection. In the 
frames were 300 sorts of carnations; no pinks, which are 
little cultivated in Germany; 140 sorts of auriculas; with 
stocks, many sorts in flower; violets, mignonette, &c. Ina 
cellar under the seedshop, among barrels of beer, tubs of 
sauer-kraut, and piles of apples and potatoes, covered with 
straw, we found cabbages, endive, and broccoli planted in 
earth ; pomegranates, figs, and Althzea frutex in tubs, and 
1000 pots of Hydrangea. M. Falcke deals chiefly in seeds, 
and has another garden, or rather large field, at some dis- 
tance from Nuremburg, where these and other commoner 
nursery articles are grown in large quantities. The soil for 
some miles round Nuremburg is a warm dry sand, and it is 
almost wholly occupied in the growth of garden seeds, which 
are sent to all parts of Germany and the north of Europe, 
and to France, England, and Turkey. Clover seeds are 
here raised in large quantities, and even the seeds of tobacco 
and asparagus. What is remarkable (considering the climate) 
is, that large quantities of tuberoses, tiger flowers, hyacinths, 
narcissi of different kinds, Amarfllis formosissima, and 
Guernsey lily, are grown to a great extent in this warm sand. 
In the year 1827, M. Falcke sent 2800 double tuberoses to 
one house in Petersburgh. He sends a great quantity of 
seeds annually to Spain and Portugal. On the whole, he is 


4.10 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


of opinion that there are more garden seeds raised in the 
neighbourhood of Nuremburg than there is round any other 
city in Europe, and that the next greatest quantity is grown 
in the neighbourhood of Erfurth. ‘The seeds are grown for 
the dealers by a particular description of cultivators, who 
answer to the seed-farmers of England. 

Before proceeding to notice the state of agriculture in 
Bavaria, we shall here give a general outline of the system by 
which the whole of the royal, or government, gardens are 
managed. In the first place, there is a government officer, 
bearing the title of director-general of gardens, who has an 
office, consisting of several rooms, in a building in Munich, 
containing other government offices. The present director- 
general is M. Charles Sckell, nephew to the late Chevalier 
Louis Sckell, author of an excellent work on landscape-gar- 
dening, and father of that department of our art in Bavaria. 
In M. Sckell’s office is a clerk or secretary, and a draughtsman. 
In this office there are plans of all the royal and government 
gardens and nurseries on a large scale, with a manuscript 
volume belonging to each plan; in which is kept, by the 
secretary, a regular account, or journal, of all that passes 
between the director-general and the intendant of the par- 
ticular plan or garden, whether in regard to orders given, 
work done, preduce disposed of, or repairs, alterations, &c. 
There is also an excellent library, chiefly of books on land- 
scape-gardening and rural architecture, and a complete set of 
instruments for surveying, mapping, drawing, &c. ‘The 
director-general has also a book for himself; in which he 
enters a short abstract of all his transactions, referring to the 
other books for details. For example, suppose on this 29th 
of June the director wrote a letter to the manager of the nur- 
sery at Schleissheim, he would make an entry in his own book 
thus: — * June 29th. Wrote to M. B. at Schleissheim as to 
repairing the outer gate: see S. J. (Schleissheim Journal), 
p. 1020.” At that page of the Schleissheim Journal would 
be found a copy of the letter sent, and before it a copy of the 
correspondence, or an account of the transactions, which led 
to the writing of that letter. 

To each of the public gardens or government nurseries 
there is an intendant, or manager, who has also his office, 
containing a good garden library, a tool and seed room ad- 
joining, in which garden instruments, such as knives, saws, 
hedge-bills, &c., and seeds are kept; as well as various other 
garden articles, not suitable for being placed in the open sheds. 
The principal piece of furniture is a desk, in which is kept a 
large manuscript book for entering all the correspondence 


Agriculture in Bavaria. 411 


with the director-general, and other books of the usual kinds 
for payments and receipts. Whenever the director-general 
proposes to do any thing of importance, he communicates 
directly with the king. For example: before M. Sckell gave 
us copies of je. 99., and a number of other plans of Bavarian 

gardens, he went in the palace, and sent up a note, request- 
ing permission to do so. The king granted it at once, by 
writing a few words on the margin of the note, and returning 
it to M. Sckell, who showed it to us. Every thing is done a 
an equally prompt and business-like manner, alike creditable 
to master and servant. 

Agriculture in Bavaria. — One of the principal reasons 
which induced us to visit Bavaria was, to obtain some know- 
ledge of the present state of its agriculture, in order to correct 
what we had said on that subject in the historical part of the 
first edition of our Encyclopedia of Agriculture. ‘The inform- 
ation there given was derived entirely from books: but, though 
some of these were of very recent publication, such as a new 
Edinburgh Gazetteer in several volumes, yet in none of them 
was there one word on the state of agriculture and domestic 
improvement in Bavaria, which did not apply to a period pre- 
vious to the breaking out of the first French revolution; in 
short, to the middle aa the last century. Considering that 
ten years of general peace had elapsed when the first edition 
of the Encyclopedia of Agriculture was published, this may 
appear surprising; but the truth is, that even now, after nearly 
twenty years of peace, there are many states in Germany of 
which we know very little. 

Bavarian agriculture, previously to the first French revolu- 
tion, was, according to all accounts, less advanced than that of 
any other state in Germany, and, indeed, remained stationary 
for ages. By far the greater part of the land in cultivation 
was the property of the religious establishments; and the 
capital, Munich, was, as the German name (Munchen) im- 
plies, the City of Monks. When, however, the estates of the 
religious establishments were sold, they were chiefly divided 
into lots so small that almost every individual who was head 
of a family became a purchaser. ‘These purchases were made 
at very low prices, on long credits; and a very great number 
of them, perhaps the oreater number, were agreed to be paid 
for by the occupant in a terminable annuity ; that i is, he paid 
a fixed rent for a certain number of years, after which the 
land became his own freehold. ‘The labourers, who had thus 
suddenly become proprietors, had, for the most part, pre- 
viously cultivated the same lands for the religious establish- 
ments, and therefore the external change was, at first, hardly 


412 Notes and Reflections during a Tour : — 


apparent. very estate, however, abounding in timber and 
in stone for building, and great part of the country being on 
a basis of limestone rock or limestone gravel, facilities were 
readily afforded for a labourer to enlarge his cottage, and to 
add to it the necessary agricultural buildings. Scarcely any 
outlay was required from him but labour; and, as the produce 
was entirely for his own benefit, and for that of his family, his 
exertions were extraordinary. By degrees, cottage dwellings, 
of a somewhat improved description, and small farm-houses 
and farmeries, appeared in those parts of the country where 
the soil was most rich; not, however, detached, as in Britain, 
but chiefly congregated together in small villages. The system 
of culture did not, at first, improve as a system; but, the 
common operations of the established practice being more 
carefully performed, better crops were produced. Ultimately, 
however, the system became improved, in consequence of the 
operation of the national education that was established when 
the monasteries were put down; and by the teaching of agri- 
culture and gardening, both by books and examples, in these 
schools. One of the first consequences was an improved rotation 
of crops. We have already enlarged on this subject in a 
preceding volume (Vol. IV. p. 494.), and have only further to 
observe, that almost the whole of the details of agricultural 
improvement in Bavaria have originated with M. Hazzi, an 
agricultural writer, and editor of an agricultural journal in 
Munich. The activity and patriotic benevolence of this gentle- 
man are beyond all praise. It was chiefly through his exer- 
tions that a piece of ground was added to every parochial 
school in Bavaria, to be cultivated by the scholars in their 
leisure hours, under the direction of the master. In these 
schools, Hazzi’s catechisms of gardening, of agriculture, of 
domestic economy and cookery, of forest culture, of orchard 
culture, and others, all small 12mo volumes, with woodcuts, 
sold at about 4d. each, are taught to all the boys; and those 
of gardening, the management of silkworms, and domestic 
economy, to the girls. Since these schools have come into 
action, an entirely new generation of cultivators has arisen ; 
and the consequence is, that agriculture in Bavaria, and 
especially what may be called cottage agriculture and eco- 
nomy, is, as far as we were able to judge, carried to a higher 
degree of perfection than it is any where else in the central 
states of Germany: at all events, we can affirm that we never 
saw finer crops of drilled Swedish and common turnips, or 
finer surfaces of young clovers, than we observed along the © 
roadsides in October and November, 1828. The fences, also, 
were generally in perfect order, and a degree of neatness 


Bavarian Roads. 413 


appeared about the cottages which is far from common either 
in France or Germany. ‘These remarks are not the result of 
observations made, as is frequently the case, from the cabriolet 
of a public diligence, but from deliberate inspection, and 
from entering many of the cottages and schools. To enable 
us to do this, we travelled, every where in Germany, in a 
private carriage, and never in the dark. We had also, as we 
have before stated, the advantage, while in Munich, of con- 
stant intercourse with M. Hazzi, M. Sckell, and other members 
of the Agricultural Society; with the chief engineer, Baader, 
who had been many years in Scotland ; with Baron Eichthal, 
the proprietor of a large estate, on which he has introduced 
the Scotch husbandry, and with whom we were acquainted in 
London; and with his very intelligent tenant, an Kast Lothian 
farmer. The result of the whole of the information procured, 
and of the observations made, is, that we think the inhabit- 
ants of Bavaria promise soon to be, if they are not already, 
among the happiest people in Germany. ‘The climate of 
the country will prevent its agriculture and gardening from 
advancing beyond a certain point; but to that point both will 
very soon be carried. 

So desirous is the government of improving not only the 
agriculture, but even the face of the country, that they have 
a standing commission, consisting of counsellors, engineers, 
architects, and the landscape-gardener Sckell, solely for the 
purpose of devising improvements in the direction of public 
roads, canals, bridges, public buildings, and gardens, national 
forests, but, above all, for lining the public roads with trees. 
These trees are in some places, in the suburbs of towns, chiefly 
ornamental; in others they are fruit trees, or mulberry trees 
cultivated for the silkworm (a catechism on the manage- 
ment of which is also published by M. Hazzi); and, where 
nothing more profitable or ornamental will grow, forest trees. 
An extraordinary degree of attention is paid to the mile- 
stones and to the guide-posts, neither of which are wanting 
on any road. ‘The guide-posts are generally painted black, 
with the letters in white or red, the black contrasting better 
with the snow, which in some parts of the country covers the 
ground for six months in every year. Some of the mile- 
stones have a bench of stone, forming a plinth or base 
around them, as a seat; others, where stone is not so plentiful, 
have a semicircular area of turf round them, bounded by 
a bench of the same material, as a seat, and planted behind 
with poplars or other trees. The neatness with which these 
turf benches, and the ditches or other fences, and also the 
grass margins by the sides of the roads, are kept far sur- 


414 Notes and Reflections during a Tour. 


passes any thing of the kind which we have ever seen in 
Britain. With us, if any thing of this kind is met with in 
the public roads, it is chiefly the result of accident, either in 
the situation or circumstances of the road; or arises from the 
appointment of a road surveyor who happens to have at 
once some taste, and more than ordinary facilities for dis- 
playing it. In Bavaria, the whole is the result of design and 
system, the entire management of the roads being in the 
hands of the government. ‘The same ought certainly to be 
the case in this country; for, otherwise, it is utterly impossible 
to adopt one general system of improvement. 

The towns in Bavaria, and more especially those of 
larger size, are vigilantly attended to by the commission 
mentioned ; partly because the present king has some taste 
for architecture and sculpture, and partly because architec- 
tural improvement tells more immediately than any other. 
New bridges, public buildings, churches, and palaces have 
been erected or repaired at Munich; and the public, when 
we were there, were complaining loudly of the enormous 
sums which were then being lavishly expended on two royal 
palaces. Unlike our own, however, they were at least in 
good taste, as may be seen by a view of one of them, which 
we have elsewhere given.* ‘The truth is, the revenue of the 
country is too small for the consumption of immense sums in 
the erection of palaces, more especially while there is so 
much room for the employment of capital in the formation 
of railroads and canals. ‘The Chevalier Baader has a 
magnificent plan for connecting Munich with the Rhine and 
the - Danube, by means of a railroad; which would not have 
cost more than what has been laid out by the present king in 
erecting a gallery (fig. 109. p. 401.) for statues and sculptures, 
another of immense size for pictures, and two palaces; and 
in purchasing the statues, pictures, and furniture required 
to complete these buildings. ‘These galleries and palaces 
may no doubt bring some travellers to Munich, but the rail- 
road alluded to would have diminished the distance between 
France and Austria by one half; would have introduced the 
wines of Hungary to the British market, and would have 
enriched every part of Bavaria through which it passed. 
Such is the difference between the consumption of capital 
and the employment of it. 

On the whole, Bavaria is, we think, the most interesting 
country in Germany, in point of cultivation and of civilis- 


* nee of Cottage, Farm, and Villa Architecture, fig. 1661. 
p. 953. 


Present State of Gardening in Sweden. ATS 


ation. It has naturally the most severe climate of all of the 
_ German states, and yet it is decidedly far before any of them 
in gardening, and before most, if not all, in agriculture and 
cottage economy. Before the French revolution, it was sunk 
in ignorance and superstition to a greater degree than any of 
the German states, but it is now equal to the first of them 
in point of intelligence, moral worth, and happiness. 


(To be continued.) 


Art. II. Notices of the present State of Gardening in Sweden, 
by Professor AGArpDH of Lund; with a Plan of the Botanic 
Garden of Lund, communicated by M. PETERSEN, of the 
Royal Gardens, Copenhagen. 


[Proressor AGARDH, with whom we have corresponded 
for some years, having called on us at Bayswater during his 
late visit to England, we took the opportunity of showing 
him the pages of our Encyclopedia of Gardening which relate 
to the history of gardening in Sweden. ‘These he took 
home with him, and returned them in a day or two with 
the following letter, which we give in the professor’s own 
words; and cannot refrain, at the same time, from expressing 
our astonishment and admiration that a foreigner who, as he 
told us, had taught himself our language entirely from books, 
should be able, not only to speak it, but to write it, with so 
much correctness, and even eloquence. | 


Sir, 

In the middle of the last century, gardening was in high 
repute in Sweden. The nobility, especially those of the 
southern province, Scania, or, as you call it, Schonen, pa- 
tronised it in all its branches, and sent young gardeners to 
Holland, in order that they might there perfect themselves in 
their art. This was partly owing to the practical direction 
which at that time all sciences had taken in Sweden, and 
partly to the spirit of the government; it then being in the 
hands of the political party generally called ‘“ Hats,” whose 
grand object was to animate the industry and encourage the 
productions of the country. But that party having been, 
about the year 1766, overpowered by another party, called 
the “ Bonnets,” whose chief object was the saving of money, 
and, finally, liberty totally vanishing by the revolution of 
1772, gardening, like all other industrious occupations, by 
degrees died away, and is now only perceptible in the few 


416 Present State of Gardening in Sweden, 


remnants which still exist of its former encouragement. 
Among these remnants, the culture of the noble fruits, as of 
pine-apples, peaches, apricots, in the greater gardens of 
Scania, is so extensive, that a surplus, not consumed by the 
families in the possession of the gardens, is every year offered 
at the markets of the neighbouring towns, often in greater 
quantities than can be sold. 

A branch of gardening, which was highly encouraged 
during the period when that art was at its zenith, was the 
culture of the white mulberry tree for feeding silkworms. 
The party above alluded to under the name of “ Hats” 
made the most strenuous efforts to introduce this species of 
industry in Sweden. Many thousand trees were planted in 
Lund; silkworms were bred in great quantities, and the silk 
produced was found excellent for fabricating the different 
articles usually manufactured from it; the culture had, in- 
deed, every prospect of success to a very great extent, when, 
in a moment, the party called the “ Bonnets,” making them- 
selves masters of the helm, struck this as well as all the 
other efforts of national industry with destruction and death. 
The mulberry trees were not even permitted to remain in the 
ground, where already an Italian landscape was extending 
itself before the eyes of the wondering traveller; they were, 
in a Vandalic manner, eradicated, to make room for corn, 
and the few left were only those in the botanic garden and in 
private plantations. These still remain, and bear witness to 
the union, in the former party, of widely extended views for 
encouraging articles of commerce and industry, to increase 
the power and resources of the nation, with a kind and bene- 
volent wish to promote the happiness and prosperity of the 
people. At a later period, the culture of the mulberry tree 
has been renewed under high protection; and if these trees 
can be made to prosper in Scania, the only province where 
they can thrive without being exposed to the dangers of 
severe winters and late springs, we hope they may be grown 
with success, provided the establishments connected with 
them be combined with other public institutions, and pro- 
tected by judicious laws. 

The good intentions for promoting gardening, which you 
have attributed, in your Lmcyclopedia, to the ‘ Swedish 
nobility,” or, more correctly speaking, to the Swedish pro- 
prietors (the ground in our country being equally open to 
nobility and other citizens), have lately been partly carried 
into execution, through horticultural associations (one for the 
northern and the other for the southern provinces), which 
have been established, and encouraged with the utmost zeal. 
The crown prince of Sweden, being the Chancellor of the Uni- 


with a Plan of the Botanic Garden of Lund. 417 


versity in Lund, has given the use of the botanic garden of 
this university to the southern horticultural association, and 
has thus united scientific instruction with useful practical 
application. ‘This association has also connected itself with 
the greatest nursery in Germany, that of M. Booth, in Ham- 
burg (a man who maintains his reputation in the most liberal 
manner, and seems to desire more the encouragement of the 
most innocent and most delightful branch of human luxury, 
than his own gain); and im this manner has endeavoured to 
lay the basis of a sure and durable influence. 

The northern association, which has its centre in Stockholm, 
was established by the highly esteemed Pontin, physician to 
the king, and has, in the greater wealth of the metropolis, and 
in the multitude of its members, a counterbalance against a 
rude climate and a less advantageous situation. 

From these facts it will appear evident that there is every 
reason to hope that Sweden will one day partake in the 
general interest for gardening, which, during the last century, 
has arisen throughout the whole of Kurope, and which now 
forms the finest bloom of civilisation. If Sweden has hitherto 
been backward in this respect, it is to be ascribed to circum- 
stances which it has not been in the power of private persons 
to counteract, but which will ultimately give way to a better 
public spirit. 

It has often been remarked that the English style of gar- 
dening is not so generally adopted in Sweden as in other 
countries. ‘This must be ascribed to the high and picturesque 
beauties of the country itself; as all that art could produce 
in Sweden would be surpassed by nature, and the exertions 
of human invention would be only a caricature of her divine 
sublimity. 

It was to me very surprising, and in the same moment 
very pleasing, to find in your Encyclopedia a plan of the 
garden of Lund, very correctly laid down. You have very 
kindly attributed the inferiority of this garden to the small 
sum allowed for its support, which is, in fact, still less than 
you supposed. I hope that, partly by its connection with the 
southern horticultural association, and partly by the care of 
the present gardener, M. Lundbuz, this garden will now 
commence a new era of developement; and that I, hereafter, 
may be able to send you accounts of increasing interest 
taken in gardening, and of the improvement of horticulture 
in Sweden, spreading from this once insignificant garden. 

Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 
Newtons Hotel, Leicester Square, C. A. AGARDH. 
London, May 16. 1833. 
Vou. IX.— No. 45. Ea 


EIDE ay 


rac) 


Plan of the Botanic Garden of Lund. 419 
(The plan alluded to:above (fig. 113.) was sent us, together 
with the following description, by our correspondent, Mr. 
Jens Peter Petersen, of the Royal Gardens of Copenhagen. ] 
The Botanic Garden of the University of Lund was founded 
in the first half of the eighteenth century. Its professors 
and directors have been Andrew Lidbeck, A. J. Retzius, and 
the distinguished C. A. Agardh. ‘The gardener, in 1826, was 
O. J. N. Morch; but is now M. Lundbuz. The garden con- 
tains about two and a half English acres; the soil is a mixture 
of gravelly clay and mould; and the surface is somewhat irre- 


gular. 


A, The botanic garden. 8, The new arboretum. 
c, The plantation. 
1, Old academy. 

3, The astronomical observatory. 

4, Vestibule to the academy. 

5, Anatomical theatre over the same. 
6. 

8 


2, New academy. 


, Conservatory. - 7, Stove. 
, Gardener’s house. 9, Conservatory. 
10, Conservatory. 11, Stove. 
12, Lecture room. 
13, Arrangements of herbaceous plants, ac- 
cording to the natural system. 
14, Arrangement of trees and shrubs. 
15, Annual plants. 16, New arboretum. 
7, Medicinal plants. 
18, Rockwork, or lapidarium. 
19, Old infirmary. 20, New infirmary. 
21, Lying-in hospital. 
22, Storehouse and kitchen for the lying-in 
hospital. 
23, Place of exercise for invalids. 
24, Garden of medicinal herbs for the hospital. 


The following are its details ; — 


25, Area for gymnastic exercises. 

26, Campus experimentalis (field for trying 
experiments). 

27, Seminarium (seed place). 

28, Pinetum (various species of pines). 

29, Acerinum (various species of acers),. 

30, Fruticetum (a collection of shrubs). 

Sis Hedge of box, 6 feet broad at the base, and 
6 feet high. 

32, The house of Professor Agardh. 

33, 34, 35, Private houses. 

36, Square called Little Square. 

37, Street called Broad Street. 

38, Churchyard, now a garder. 

39, 40, 41, Private houses. 

42, In the direction of 42 is another house be- 
longing to Professor Agardh. 

43, Private house. 44, 45, Streets. 

46, 47. House and garden of the Academical 
Association. 

48, Street. 


49, Bishop’s house. 
50, Private houses. 


It has been remarked that the box thrives here remarkably 
well; there being hedges of that shrub upwards of six feet 
high. The tender plants are said to thrive here better than 
in the garden at Copenhagen. ‘The herbaceous plants are 
-arranged according to Professor Agardh’s Aphorismi Plan- 
tarum ; each genus being planted by itself. There are a 
good many species of trees and shrubs, though but few 
North American plants. The green-houses contain the 
plants of the South of Europe; but few natives of the Cape, 
or of New Holland. ‘The most remarkable plants in the 
stoves are the banana and the date. The hot-houses are 
heated by German stoves, in which wood is burned as fuel. 
The garden has no library, herbarium, or collection of seeds ; 
nor is this to be wondered at, when it is considered that the 
entire expense of the establishment, including the gardener’s 
salary, seldom exceeds 50/. a year. ‘The total number of 
species in this garden, in 1829, was 2300. An arboretum 

was planted there by M. Morch, and also a shrubbery in the 
English style. A good many white mulberry trees had been 
propagated, with a view to the culture of the silkworm; but 
the severe winter of 1798 destroyed most of the trees, and 


the culture has been given up. The worms were reared in 
EE 2 


420 Floral Fair at Marseilles, 


the orangery in the botanic garden; some silk cloth was 
made, and a fragment is still kept in the museum at Lund, of 
a piece of it which was presented to the queen. No attempt 
has been made to renew this plantation, which is now occu- 
pied by trees of the A’cer Psetido-Platanus, introduced into 
Sweden from Holland, in the year 1770. —J. P. P. 


Art. III. Some Account of a Floral Fair held at Marseilles in 
January, 1833, with a List of the Plants there exhibited for Sale. 
By ViaTor. | 

Sir, 

On passing through Marseilles, I was recommended to 
attend a sort of floral fair, which is annually held on St. 
Antony’s day (the 17th of January), in the Place des Pré- 
cheurs, but which this year had been transferred to the Place 
Noailles, and the adjacent boulevards. St. Antony’s day 
has been set apart for this purpose, as falling about the time 
best suited for the planting out of seedling onions, which are 
brought in great quantities, principally from the little town 
of Auriol, to this fair, instituted, probably, in early times, 
solely for the sale of this vegetable. Another fair, said to be 
still more considerable, is held on the public walk called the 
Cours, on the Jour des Rois, or ‘Twelfth Day; but which, I 
regret, | was unable to attend. From ten to twelve thousand 
trees, of different sorts, are disposed of at these two fairs. Much 
other agricultural and horticultural business is transacted ; 
the nurserymen vie with each other in the quality and variety 
of their collections, and the honest citizens of this great town 
provide themselves with flowers and plants to decorate their 
alcoves and verandas. A description, therefore, of that 
which I attended, will give you a general idea of the state of 
horticulture around the capital of Southern France. 

Armed with a pencil and paper, I carefully noted down all 
the species of plants which were offered for sale, the prices 
of the principal articles, and such other observations as I 
was enabled to make. The list which I append cannot 
pretend to be a catalogue of all the species cultivated in 
Provence, but merely of those more usually in demand ; and, 
as such, is indicative of considerable taste for horticultural 
embellishment, though scarcely so much as might have been 
expected in an opulent and flourishing community like that 
of Marseilles. 

My expectations were not greatly raised. I was, therefore, 


with a List of Plants exhibited. 42) 


agreeably surprised, both by the variety and the distribu- 
tion of the plants on sale. In the lower part of the fair 
were disposed the more delicate and exotic vegetables; above 
these, the hardy and ornamental shrubs and pees and on the 
boulevards were assembled the stems of olive trees and mul- 
berries, and trunks of elms and other forest trees in fazsceaux 
[bundles] of various sizes and forms. ‘This disposition, 
ordered by the mayor, was the more remarkable, as the 
ground gradually rises from the Place Noailles to the 
boulevards. 

Some of the hardy plants and trees were in moderately 
good order, but many had, doubtless, never been moved since 
their first transplanting from the seed-bed; and some of the 
indigenous species, as Pinus halepénsis, Globularia Alypum, 
and Borers had evidently been extracted at once from the 
woods and heaths. In general, the roots were in the worst 
possible state for planting; many, even, had been carefully 
washed and cleaned ; yet “the venders were indignant at my 
doubts as to their growing on replantation. The appearance 
of the exotics marked likewise a degree of cultivation by no 
means advanced. ‘The succulent plants were in a state of 
hydropsy, and the rest phthisical and unhealthy. I regret, 
for the honour of Marseillois gardening, to be obliged to con- 
fess that the best collection, both as to the health, variety, 
and rareness of the species, had been brought by sea from 
Genoa.* 

I proceed to the particular description of the articles. 
Fine elms from 8 ft. to 10 ft. high and thick in proportion, 
fetched about 20d. sterling each. ‘They were all grafted 
close to the root with quick-growing and elegant  varie- 
ties, and were principally destined for public walks and 
avenues. ‘The nurseryman, for a small remuneration, insures 
their existence for three years. This is usual for the public 
walks, which, when created or renewed, are farmed from the 
town-councils by some neighbouring nurseryman. He en- 
gages at the same time to prune the trees, and the product 
of the pruning is sent to the hospitals. ‘These trees are 
better pruned in the south than in the north of France, 
which I attribute to the experience acquired in the annual 
and systematic dressing of the olive trees and mulberries. 


* The backwardness of the south in comparison with the north of 
Europe, both in the science and the practice of gardening, is a fact not to 
be denied. From this general condemnation I must, however, except the 
Genoese, and perhaps the Catalonians, as far as regards culinary horticul- 
ture : but, in all these countries, too little attention is paid to the varieties 
of the fruits they cultivate ; they are mostly of a very inferior character. 

EE 3 


422 Floral Fair at Marseilles, 


The branches are amputated close to the trunk, and the 
wounded part is well chiseled and smoothed, and sometimes 
painted. They appear to me, however, to lop too much, 
and to exaggerate the system recommended by Pontey. 
This custom they excuse under the necessity of giving air 
and light to the roads and walks; but, on this account, one 
rarely or never sees majestic avenues like that of Christ 
Church at Oxford, and some others in Britain; and such as, 
I trust, our descendants may see, should the frequent exhort- 
ations you have so wisely given in your earlier Numbers 
produce the effect which they ought to have produced on the 
present generation. But I return to my subject matter. The 
roots of these trees were cut close to the stem, and their 
heads entirely taken off. Notwithstanding this process, I 
have seen them sprout with vigour when replanted ; and it is, 
I am told, rendered necessary by their having remained so 
long untransplanted. ‘This statement will apply to most of 
the forest trees noted in the list. 

Scotch pines [Pinus sylvéstris], 3 or 4 ft. high, fetched 
about ls. each. ‘There were but few plants, as the climate 
is not congenial to this tree. The Aleppo pines [Pinus 
halepénsis] were much more common, and sold, according to 
their size, from 2d. to 8d.each. For Juniperus virginiana 
they asked 1s. 6d. Fine white mulberries [Morus alba] 
from 6 to 10 ft. high, were marked at 3d. or 6d. each; in 
larger quantities they may be had still cheaper. The culti- 
vation of this tree and the rearing of the silkworm form 
one of the chief resources of the department, and have been 
greatly encouraged and extended of late years. ‘The council- 
general offered a premium of 33d. for each tree planted ; and 
it appears, that, during the years 1820, 1821, and 1822, the 
reward was claimed for upwards of 12,000. Many are ex- 
ported: in 1825, 50,000 large and 150,000 smaller trees 
were shipped for Cork, in Ireland. [For some notice of 
these trees, see Vol. I. p. 339.] 

Large olive trees, 5 or 6 ft. high, with large trongons at 
their roots, cut in the same manner as the elms, with the ex- 
ception that they had usually small heads left, fetched from 
Is. to 2s. each. ‘They had been raised from the stems of 
trees cut down much after the fashion described by Virgil in 
his Georgics. This valuable tree, though cultivated in Pro- 
vence long before our present era, is frequently destroyed by 
frosts. Scarcely a tree survived the frost of 1819-20. 

Good-sized lemon and orange trees fetched about 1s. 6d., 
smaller-sized 1s. 3d. Great importations take place from 
Genoa, and large plantations have been created in this 


with a List of Plants exhibited. 423 


neighbourhood; but as yet Hiéres and Nice are the only 
spots where these delightful trees flourish, between the Alps 
and the Pyrenees. 

For the rarer green-house plants in the list they generally 
asked from Is. to 4s. Large plants of Pzednza arborea 
[ Moutan] sold for 8s.; smaller plants fetched 4s.; Echevéria 
coccinea, 7d.; Cassia tomentosa, large plants, 1s. 3d.; jas- 
mines, 23d. to 5d.; and so in proportion. 

I have since visited some of the nurseries: they are of very 
small extent. It is calculated that all the nursery grounds 
in the neighbourhood of Marseilles do not exceed three 
hectares and a half, or about seven acres.* ‘The most con- 
spicuous is that of M. Rougier, who has a small hot-house 
and green-house, and cultivates some rare species. From 
want of space, he propagates but few plants, renewing his 
stock from the nurseries at Lyons. ‘The only collection of 
any merit is that of the Count de Feliz. After this comes 
La Fleuride, formerly a fine establishment, but the pleasure 
grounds have lately been converted into an orange garden 
by its present possessor. ‘The Marquis of Cavagnac has an 
elegant garden at St. Marthe; and the ancient parks of the 
Aygalades; Gemenos, the property of the Marquis of Al- 
bertas ; and the Chateau Borelly, remains of the magnificence 
of former times, contain some fine trees, and merit a visit. 
The bastides, or country-houses of the commercial aristocracy, 
show as yet but little evidence of good taste. There isa 
lamentable backwardness in knowledge even amongst the 
_ upper classes of the southern French; and the culture of 
the soil will doubtless profit by its future extension amongst 
all ranks. 

Should this communication appear to you of sufficient in- 
terest, I shall be happy, at some future time, to send you a 
sketch of my visit to the experimental garden of the cele- 
brated author of the Pomona Italiana, Count George Gallesio, 
at Finale, and of the great nursery establishment of MM. 
Audibert, at Tarascon. I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

Marseilles, February 15. 1833. VIATOR. 


[We shall be extremely obliged by the proposed communi- 
cations on the very interesting gardens alluded to, and wish 
much that the author of the above excellent paper would 
favour us also with some notices of the gardening and botany 
of Spain, and of the other countries from which he has sent 


* See the excellent Statistics of the Department of the Mouths of the 
Rhone, by the Count de Villeneuve. 
mE 4 


424, 


Floral Fair at Marseilles. 


home so many new and beautiful plants during the last six 


or seven years. — Cond.] 


Catalogue of Plants exhibited for Sale, on January 17. 1833, 
in the Place Noailles, at Marseilles. 


h, Hardy plants; g, green-house plants ; 2, indigenous plants. 


Abies pectinata, h; excélsa, h; and 
alba, h. a ’ 

Acacia farnesiana, h; lophantha, g ; 

longifolia, g; and Julibrissin, h. 

Agave americana, h. 

A’loe vera, h. 

Aloysia citriodora, h. 

Arbutus U‘nedo, h 7. 

Amygdalus commtnis, #; armeni- 
aca, h; and Pérsica, h. 

Artemisia argéntea, g. 

Atriplex Halimus, h i. 

Biaxus sempervirens, 2; and bale- 
arica, h. 

Caméllia japonica, g. 

Cassia tomentosa, g. 

Cérasus Laurocérasus, h. 
N Dy 5 5 

Cereus flagelliformis, g; triangu- 
laris, g; and peruvianus, g. 

Cércis Siliquastrum, / 2. 

Citrus Médica, h; and Aurantium, f. 

Cineraria platanifolia [? populifo- 
lia], g. 

omaniiiia Sappan, g. 

. S . 

Cneorum tricdccum, / 2. 

Coronilla glatca, hi; and_ stipu- 
laris, h 2. 

Corrz‘a alba, g; and speciosa, g. 

Cérnus mascula, h 2. 

Cobce‘a scandens, g. 

[?] Cheendmeles japonica, h. 

Cyclamen europe‘um, h 2. 

Crassula lactea, g. 

Cy¥tisus Labarnum, h. 

Cupréssus sempervirens, h. 

Dianthus Caryophyllus, 2. 

Daphne odora, g. 

Echeveria coccinea, g. 

Erica mediterr., h i; arborea, h. 

Eriobétrya japonica, /. 

Genista monospérma, h. 

Georgina, tubers of several kinds, 2. 

Globularia Alypum, / 2. 

Gnidium pinifolium, g. 

Gymnocladus canadensis, 2. 

Heédera Helix, hi. 

Helléborus niger, 4; and viridis, h 2. 

Houstonia coccinea, g. 

Ilex Aquifolium, h 2. 

Jasminum odoratissimum, g; and 
officinale, /. 


Jiglans régia, h. 

Juniperus Oxycedrus, hz; and yvir- 
giniana, h, 

Lonicera perfoliata [? grata], h7; 
and japonica, g. 

TAjlium candidum, h 7. 

Larus nobilis, h 7. 

Lilac vulgaris, h. 

Larix Cédrus, h. 

Medéola [Myrsiphyllum] 
goldes, g. 

Melia Azedarach, h. 

Melocactus communis, g. 

Morus alba, h. 

Myrtus communis, h 2. 

Narcissus incomparabilis in flower, 
and bulbs of other species. 

Neérium Oleander, h. 

O’cymum Sasilicum, g. 

O‘lea europee‘a, h 7. 

Opuntia vulgaris, g.- 

Passiflora ceerulea, h. 

Pelargonium zonale, g ; triste, ¢ ; and 
several other species. 

Phaséolus Caracalla, h. 

Phee‘nix dactylifera, h. 

Pistacia vera, h:; Terebinthus, h7; 
and Lentiscus, h 2. 

Pyrus communis, hi; and Ma- 
lus, h 2. 

Piunica Granatum, h 27. 

Quércus I ‘lex, h i. 

Raninculus asiaticus, h. 

Raphidlepis indica, 2. 

Rhamnus Alatérnus, h i. 

Ribes rubrum, h. 

Rosa, various varieties and species. 

Robinia Pseud-Acacia, h; and _ his- 
pida, h. 

Rosmarinus officinalis, h 2. 

Statice Armeéria, h 2. 

Salvia officinalis, h 7. 

Saccharum officinarum, g. 

Tamarix gallica, h 2. 

Taxus baccata, h i. 

Tiymus vulgaris, h 2. 

Tilia europee‘a, h 2. 

Thija orientalis, 2. 

Viola odorata, h 7; and tricolor, h 2. 

Vitis vinifera, h. 

Vibtirnum Tinus, h 2. 


aspara- 


On several Gardens in England. 425 


Art. 1V. Observations on several Gardens in England. By 
Mr. WitiiAmM SanpeErs, Nurseryman, Bristol. 


(Continued from p. 17.) 


JULY 15. 1832.— Longleat, the very magnificent seat of 
the Marquess of Bath, is situated a few miles south-west of 
Warminster. The drive to Longleat from that city is of a 
highly rural character ; and, on emerging from it, the eye is 
enchanted by the view of a spacious plain, of gently undu- 
lated surface, and immediately below stands the princely 
mansion, on every side rich with picturesque scenery; to 
the right stretches a lucid sheet of water, backed by a fine 
plantation ; and the beauty of the whole is greatly enhanced 
by the wide extent of the domain, which bestows on it much 
such a character as comports with our ideas of nobility. A 
neat and well-kept flower-garden, laid out in the Italian style, 
adjoins the mansion; and in its centre, immediately fronting a 
large orangery, stands a marble vase, nine feet in diameter, 
which, if my information be correct, once adorned the 
imperial city of Rome. At pleasure, a jet d’eau throws up 
its refreshing showers, and imparts, in a summer’s evening, 
a delicious odcur to the surrounding atmosphere. A short 
distance to the west, and closely connected with the mansion, 
stands a splendid pile of buildings, appropriated as stables 
and offices, well assorting with the magnificence of the house 
The kitchen-garden is removed, perhaps inconveniently, far 
from the house; but this is preferable, in my mind, to the 
situation in which it is too frequently found. A _ rather 
awkward site has been chosen for it, as it occupies the two 
sides of a valley, running from north-east to south-west. It 
is, however, well sheltered on all sides by fine woods. To 
the south it is more thinly studded with trees; good sub- 
stantial walls enclose the whole; but the wall trees appear to 
have seen their best days. ‘The soil is of a stiff nature, not 
very congenial to the growth of early vegetables; but, as a 
compensation, it will withstand the summer’s drought: The 
hot-houses, which had become old and decayed, were, when I 
saw them, being replaced by structures of a more elegant 
and useful character, under the superintendence of the 
gardener, Mr. Acon. Behind the houses, an excellent row of 
sheds was also in course of erection, well adapted -for the 
various purposes for which they are intended. ‘The orderly 
keeping which pervaded the many drives, reflects much 
credit on the several individuals who superintend the estate. 

On leaving Loneleat, I made the best of my way towards 


4.26 On several Gardens in England. 


Stourhead, the peculiarly rural seat of Sir R. C. Hoare, 
replete with fascinating scenery. ‘The gardens are confined 
to a narrow compass, and chiefly excel in possessing a very 
numerous and splendid collection of pelargoniums, Sir 
Richard appropriating several houses solely to them. Among 
them are many varieties of his own raising, and none are 
admitted but the more rare and curious kinds. A drive 
extends from the mansion, for upwards of two miles, along 
the top of a ridge, forming one side of a valley; it passes an 
obelisk erected to the memory of some former possessor, and 
terminates with a tower bearing the name of the patriotic 
Alfred. Tradition represents this as the spot where he 
planted his victorious standard on his final conquest of the 
Danes. From the top of this tower an extended view of 
country presents itself, comprising part of Dorsetshire, 
Somersetshire, Gloucestershire, and Wiltshire, with the 
Welsh hills in the distance. Nearly at the top of the valley 
rises a spring, which forms the head of the river Stour. At 
some distance below, the river is stopped by means of a dam, 
and forms a goodly sheet of water; both sides of the vale are 
clothed thickly with timber and underwood. 

July 17.— On returning to Warminster, I called at the 
residence of Phelp, Esq. 'The flower-garden here is a per- 
fect little paradise; seemingly combining every thing which 
art, coupled with good taste, can unfold of the beauties of 
nature. Flora has here an ardent admirer, and her pro- 
ductions an assiduous cultivator. ‘The arrangements of the 
flower-beds appear far more judicious, and the plants more 
appropriately assorted, than is frequently the case. Mr. 
Phelp spares no reasonable expense in procuring whatever 
is new and rare; thereby adding to the interest, while he 
enhances the beauty, of his place. Nor is he the less atten- 
tive to the interests of horticulture among his neighbours, 
but generously contributes his support and influence to the 
neighbouring horticultural societies. May I venture a hope 
that such an example will not be lost ? 

On the afternoon of the same day, I called on Mr. Wheeler, 
Nurseryman, Warminster. ‘This nursery comprises a good 
collection of herbaceous plants. Several new varieties of 
Calceolaria have been produced by Mr. Wheeler, and he has 
now several that have not yet flowered, which, he thinks, 
promise well. His general collection of exotic plants looks 
remarkably healthy: in rearing camellias from cuttings and 
otherwise, Mr. Wheeler merits great credit. A very neat and 
cheap form of pit, for the protection of half-hardy plants, was 


On Abridgment of Labour on a Saturday. 427 


in course of erection: the roof is in the form of a capital A, 
the walls are about one foot high, and the lights are glazed 
with small squares of glass, which cost in Bristol, ready cut, 
one penny each ; the width of the pit is about five feet, and 
the roof is glazed on both sides. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Bristol, Feb. 28. 1833. W. SANDERS. 


(To be continued.) 


Arr. V. On the Advantages which would result from Gardeners 
not being compelled to work longer on a Saturday than Artisans. 
By ScIeENTI£ ET JUSTITIZ AMATOR. 

Sir, 

THe system of oppression under which the labouring 
population has so long groaned is so firmly established, and 
blended so intimately with all the relations by which man 
stands connected with his fellow man, that an attempt to 
strike boldly at the root of evils, and tear up at once the tree 
of corruption and tyranny, would rather tend to increase than 
remedy our grievances, as such a step would be apt to lead 
to the total disorganisation of society. We must, for the 
present (as the surest method of finally attaining our object), 
content ourselves with lopping off some of the most obnoxious 
boughs and twigs, so that, by a steady perseverance, we may 
at length have our tree renewed in its branches, or engrafted 
with scions of a more prolific nature, and better calculated 
for promoting the solid enjoyments of mankind. The 
grievance to which, at present, I wish to call your attention is 
one of so trivial a nature, that, so far as I am aware, it never 
has been adverted to by any of your correspondents; and yet 
it appears to me to possess peculiar odiousness, principally 
on account of the invidious distinction which it sanctions 
between the different orders of the working classes; being an 
evil confined to the gardener and the labourer, and from 
which the more favoured artisan is wholly free. 

In reading that part of the Encyclopedia of Gardening 
where you show the advantages and time which the young 
gardener possesses for mental cultivation, you state that the 
longest period he has to labour is ten hours per day; while 
you must be aware that, through the greater part of England, 
the period of labour is ten hours and a half, half an hour 
only being allowed for breakfast. This custom is prevalent 
among mechanics, as well as among gardeners and labourers; 


4.28 Advantages to Gardeners 


but mark the difference: as an equivalent, the mechanic 
either has his half hour for tea every afternoon, as is often 
practised about London, or he leaves off working at three or 
four o’clock on Saturday afternoon; while the gardener and 
labourer must continue to work on to the usual period on 
that day as well as on the others. Why, in this respect, make 
such a difference betwixt the mechanic and the labourer ? 
Why give to the one privileges which are withheld from the 
other? While manufacturers, &c., have had their periods of 
prosperity and adversity, a constant succession of hardships 
has long been the fate of the agricultural labourer. When 
any class of artisans, &c., is depressed in circumstances, the 
country resounds with the intelligence, petitions are poured 
into Parliament on their behalf, and subscriptions are entered 
into to relieve their present necessities; but, notwithstanding 
the continued hardships of the humble labourer’s lot, how 
few have endeavoured to improve his condition! No beam 
of light, as a messenger of hope, has darted through the 
gloom which overshadows his path; but, lost, bewildered, he 
inks into apathy and indifference, and becomes regardless of 
a life which is attended with so much misery and oppression. 
In a great number of instances, the only happiness which the 
labourers possess, and which renders their life at all endur- 
able, seems to be derived from their belief in a future state of 
existence, where they will be set free from their troubles and 
their woes, and enjoy an uninterrupted tranquillity and repose. 
I hope you will excuse this seeming digression, as I revert 
to the subject more immediately in question. 

It must, at the first glance, be apparent, that many advan- 
tages would be the result of placing gardeners and labourers, 
in respect to their Saturday’s work, upon an equal footing 
with mechanics. The young gardener would then have 
many opportunities of visiting places, &c., which at present 
he cannot accomplish. In many establishments a young man 
cannot get away part of a day without his pay being stopped, 
which his pecuniary circumstances often make him ill able to 
afford. Sunday is the only time he possesses for knowing 
what is doing around him, and, resolved to make as much as 
possible of one day, his tours for improvement often turn out 
a very laborious toil, instead of a pleasant recreation. The 
possession of the Saturday afternoon would be a very valuable 
acquisition, especially to those who, from conscientious motives, 
do not feel inclined to make a practice of travelling upon the 
Sabbath. Besides, a young man might enter into an agree- 
ment with his master, that, by working a certain number of 
Saturday afternoons, he might obtain a day to himself, when 


of abridging their Labour on a Saturday. 429 


he required it, without injury to any of the parties. To the 
common labourer the introduction of such a system would be 
of very great importance. Instead of having, as at present, 
often to wait for his wages until a considerable time past six 
o’clock, which prevents him from going to market until late 
at night, or upon the following morning; forced often to 
purchase inferior articles without any reduction in price; he 
would arrive at home in time to enable his wife to provide to 
most advantage the provisions for the ensuing week. Then, 
if not inclined to visit any other place, having received a 
refreshing beverage, the consciousness of the sweet cessation 
from toil which he will enjoy upon the following day causing 
him to forget his former fatigue, he might go out into his 
little garden, ‘with his wee things toddling around him,” 
and doing what they can to promote the general weal; and 
there nobly exert himself to have every thing in the highest 
order and perfection ; while he would experience a delight in 
viewing the beneficial effects of his labour, which the tippler 
at the alehouse, who neglects his home, even in the brightest 
moments of his insane enjoyment never can experience. It 
is quite astonishing what even a tired man will accomplish, 
when he reflects that himself and family will derive the sole 
benefit of his labours. Why, then, stifle this spirit, apparently 
of selfishness, but in reality founded on the noblest principles, 
the desire of being independent of the charity of others, by 
depriving the labourer of time, the possession of which to 
him would be of so much importance? Much do we hear at 
present about the better observance of the Sabbath, by pre- 
venting all sorts of labouring and trafficking upon it; but, when 
we examine the subject, we shall find that, in a great many 
instances, the practice is followed, not from the volition of the 
parties concerned, but that it is purely the result of necessity. 
Not to enter into a discussion upon this subject, one desire 
must predominate in the minds of all who wish well to the 
labouring population; namely, that all of them may at least 
have the means of abstaining from bodily toil upon a day set 
apart as a period of sacred rest. If once the practice became 
prevalent, of allowing the poor man to work on Sunday, he 
would soon receive no more remuneration for working seven 
days, than at present he does for six. On the other hand, if 
the practice were to work only five days, the remuneration 
would still be the same. The rich man can make a Sunday 
of rest whenever he chooses; the Sabbath has, with much 
propriety, been styled “ the poor man’s day,” and little need 
has he to be deprived of any of his privileges. Enable the 
poor man to perform his necessary duties on the Saturday, 


430 Advantages to Gardeners 


and few will be so very fond of toil as to labour on the 
Sunday. 

It was with much pleasure that I lately perused several 
communications in this Magazine, the design of which was 
the amelioration of the state of the labouring classes, and 
which were sent by gentlemen, whose labours and example 
may be productive of the greatest benefit. Let them show 
that they really wish to put the poor man in possession of his 
rights, by immediately redressing his grievances, however 
trifling these may appear to be. Those philanthropic gentle- 
men who, regardless of the customs prevalent around them, 
will break through every fostered prejudice, and do what 
they can to elevate degraded humanity, may be laughed at, 
reviled, and even opposed, by some of their neighbours, who 
wish us to remain degraded and ignorant as we are; but they 
may rest assured that their benevolent exertions will be duly 
appreciated by a discerning public, and their names will be 
long hailed as those of the benefactors of their species, and the 
enemies of oppression, in every cabin and cottage of our land, 
the inmates of which have acquired the power of knowing 
right from wrong; when the names of heroes, conquerors, 
and crafty politicians, that once operated as a potent charm in 
arresting the admiration of mankind, shall have mixed with 
the generations of by-gone ages, and along with them be 
rolled down the stream of oblivion; and, what is most en- 
couraging of all, they will experience, in their own bosoms, 
those truly enviable sensations which an approving con- 
science (‘ mens sibi conscia recti”) never fails to inspire. 

We do not advocate the adoption of this system as a prac- 
tice that has never been tried: it has long been generally 
prevalent in the northern counties of England. There, every 
gardener at a gentleman’s establishment, even those connected 
with the forcing department, quits his labour on Saturday at 
four o’clock in the afternoon, and every labourer, wherever 
employed, does the same. As I have never resided in that 
part of the country, I will not attempt to give you a descrip- 
tion of the effects of such a practice. I will merely mention 
what I have often been told by a very intelligent young man, 
who laboured two years in a gentleman’s garden in the 
county of Durham; namely, that his master was so convinced 
of the beneficial results of giving a degree of relaxation to his 
men, that they uniformly left their work at five o’clock in 
the afternoon, and on Saturday at three o’clock; and the 
effect of this practice was, and is, that the place is so cele- 
brated for its high keeping and good management, that a 
saying has been rendered current in the neighbourhood, that 


of abridging their Labour on a Saturday. 431 


if the gentleman found a weed upon the premises, he pulled it 
up, and brought it to the gardener’s door. Such a fact speaks 
volumes, and requires no comment. In taking leave of this 
subject, I cannot but earnestly entreat that some of your 
patriotic readers in the counties of Northumberland and 
Durham would shortly send you some communications, not 
only confirming the truth of the existence of this practice, but 
also showing its influence in extending the happiness and im- 
proving the moral condition of the people. No one can set 
limits to the amount of good which a few such communica- 
tions might be the means of accomplishing, and surely no- 
thing can be more honourable, and nothing more worthy of 
man, than doing good to his fellow man. ‘These efforts may 
not be crowned with immediate success, and oppression and 
injustice may still remain our fate; but sure I am that those 
who have been employed in such a benevolent undertaking 
will find the consideration that they have attempted, at 
least, to elevate humanity from its present degradation, and 
to lessen the bitterness of the ingredients in the cup of human 
woe, infuse such pleasing reflections into their minds, as will 
prove more than a tenfold compensation for the little trouble 
which their exertions may cost them. Once more craving 
their assistance, I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

ScIENTIZ ET JuUSTITIZ AMATOR. 
Staffordshire, March 27. 1833. 


P. S. The general period for labour throughout Scotland 
is only ten hours per day. As the labourer there, as well 
as in England, is often employed at such a distance from 
home, that he is obliged to carry all his provisions for break- 
fast and dinner along with him, the practice of taking only 
half an hour to breakfast, provided he received the Saturday 
afternoon in exchange, would tend much to increase his 
comforts, and prove a great means of introducing a taste for 
gardening, to which comparatively very little attention is paid. 
Much good might be effected by gentlemen raising a spirit 
of emulation, by giving small premiums; and desiring their 
gardeners to instruct the cottagers in the neighbourhood how 
to raise many vegetables which are found very profitable by 
the English labourer, but which have but in few instances 
found their entrance into the “ kail-yards of auld Scotland.” 


4.32 Professional and general Improvement 


Art. VI. On the Professional and general Improvement of Young 
Gardeners. By A Younc GARDENER. 
Sir, 

Ir must be pleasing to every reader of your invaluable 
Magazine, to behold so many persons interesting themselves 
in the improvement of young gardeners. Youth is, indeed, a 
learning season; for then the mental powers are unclouded 
by those cares which crowd upon maturer years, and unfit 
the mind for contemplation and improvement: and if this be 
the case; if the young can make the most rapid advances in 
knowledge; if the season of youth be hurrying on, and, like 
the morning sun, rapidly passing away; surely those who 
are in the morning of life ought to allow no opportunity to 
pass unimproved; knowing, as they must, that, if once lost, it 
will never return. ‘The improvement of every young gar- 
dener depends much upon himself, and much upon the 
disposition of others. He has much to do; the field is wide; 
and, unless he is anxious to cultivate his mind himself, he 
cannot expect others to drag him forward against his in- 
clination. Many of the means for improvement are within 
his own reach, and books, the foundation of knowledge 
and couch of literature, should be his frequent study. 
Writing essays on different subjects is also very useful; as, 
by this means, he is not only compelled to retire into the 
chamber of his mind, and excite that which would other- 
wise remain in a state of inaction, but he is enabled to ex- 
press himself freely on any subject which may be brought 
before him. Above all, he should pay particular attention 
to what is going on around him, in the garden or in the 
field, in the shrubbery or in the forest. The improvement of 
every young gardener depends much upon his employer. 
Not to speak of low wages, which always form a barrier in 
the way of his acquiring knowledge, the lodges in which he 
dwells are often so small as to render him very uncomfort- 
able, and to prevent his fully profiting by the short leisure 
which is afforded him. Even in the vicinity of modern 
Athens [Edinburgh], that noble city, whose beautiful build- 
ings have attracted the notice and excited the admiration of 
all who have beheld them, gardeners are to be found living 
in sheds, having only one room, and that of small dimensions. 
I cannot think that this is altogether the fault of the gentlemen 
who employ gardeners. I cannot think that those who live 
in splendid mansions, containing numerous suites of rooms, 
and who have all the comforts which this world can afford, 
would consider a small apartment of only a few feet square 


of Young Gardeners. 433 


as a fit habitation for a number of beings of the same species 
with themselves, were they to give the matter one single 
thought, or were it to be explained to them. But that such 
is the case is an undeniable fact. I would not wish to go to 
extremes, but I really think that gardeners ought to have at 
least two rooms for their use; and there can be no doubt 
that such accommodation would materially accelerate their 
improvement. In every lodge where there are a number of 
young men, they are always engaged in different pursuits: 
some may be studying arithmetic, or writing, reading, drawing, 
or the like; while others may be improving themselves in 
music, or talking on different subjects. Now, this is all very 
good and very proper; but it must appear plain to every 
person that all of these employments cannot go well on in 
one small room, and that arithmetic and music are not very 
agreeable companions. Many other examples might be 
brought forward to prove the benefit which would arise from 
better accommodation, but this may suffice for the present. 
The improvement of young gardeners depends much upon 
the head gardener; and I might here show the evil effects 
which arise from master gardeners engaging too many ap- 
prentices; which, although it may be gain to themselves, 
must injure those who wish employment as journeymen. 
But I will not enlarge upon that at present. Iam sorry to 
think that there are so many who seem to forget what they 
once were, and who appear to consider themselves above 
giving instructions to those who are under their charge. 
They have much in their power; as their wages, in general, 
are such as enable them to purchase books on gardening 
and botany, which, if lent to the young gardener, would 
effect much good. ‘These books are so high-priced, that 
they are quite beyond the reach of many to procure them, 
and there are so few circulating libraries which contain 
books on such subjects, that, unless those who are able 
be also willing to lend, those who are unable to purchase 
books must remain ignorant of their valuable contents. 
Almost every young man has a desire for improvement, and 
almost all wish to acquire a thorough knowledge of their 
profession. When they are encouraged and assisted by their 
masters, this desire is strengthened ; ; it is like adding fuel to 
the flame; and it will continue to burn stronger and stronger 
until they arrive at eminence in their profession, and even 
then it will not cease. J am proud to say that I have had 
the good fortune to be placed under men whose character 
and conduct differ widely from those hinted at by some of 
your young correspondents, in preceding pages of your 
Vou. IX. — No. 45. 1s) Ty 


AS4 Improvement of Young Gardeners. 


Magazine. He under whom I am at present is one of the 
most amiable, intelligent, and yet strictest of masters; and 
those who are under him are not only assisted, but urged 
onward, by every argument, in the way of knowledge. Such 
conduct is worthy of his character and profession; and need 
I say what is the result of it? Iam persuaded there is not a 
man under him who would not do any thing in his power to 
serve him: and however little tyrants may think of the 
value of others, I am persuaded that there are many things 
which depend entirely upon journeymen, which, if left undone, 
would expose their masters to censure. 

Thus, Sir, I have attempted to show that every young man 
has means in his own power for improvement, and that he 
may easily be assisted in this by his employer and head gar- 
dener: but is it not a fact, and a mournful one too, that it is 
not those who are the most deserving who are preferred ? 
‘* Many a lovely flower is allowed to bloom, to fade, and to 
die, unnoticed and unknown.” So alike it is with not a few of 
our most talented young men: they are doomed to see others 
promoted over them far inferior to themselves both in talents 
and attainments. Such is now the case: but I would fondly 
hope it will not long continue so; and that the glimmering 
light which is just discovering itself in the eastern horizon, is 
but the foregoer of a bright sun, which shall shine upon those 
who are most deserving of its genial rays. I would fondly 
hope that better days are drawing nigh, when gentlemen will 
see the propriety of providing for the comfort of those who 
labour for their pleasure and amusement; when head gar- 
deners will contribute, by every means in their power, to the 
improvement of the young; when libraries shall be esta- 
blished throughout Britain; and when gardeners will shine, as 
they were wont to do, and as many of them still continue to 
shine, ornaments to their profession, and lights to a sur- 
rounding world. If you consider these few remarks worthy 
of a place in your Gardener’s Magazine, they are at your 
service: and if they be the humble instruments of bettering 
the condition of gardeners in the least degree, or of inducing 
one master to lend a single book to a brother in youth and 
in trade, I shall not have written in vain. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
A YounG GARDENER. 
Mid-Lothian, May 25. 1833. 


Method of economising Time at Breakfast. 435 


Art. VII. Ona Method of keeping Food warm, so that a working 
Gardener may lose as little Time as possible at Breakfast. By 
Mr. Perer Mackenzie, Gardener to Robert Lowis, Esq., of 
Wester Plean. 

Sir, 

WueEn I worked in the nursery of Messrs. Drummond and 
Sons, at Stirling, I had about two miles to walk from the 
place where I resided to the nursery ; and most of my break- 
fast-hour was spent in going to and coming from breakfast, 
which I always considered a great loss of time. About the 
same period, I attended a course of lectures on chemistry, 
delivered to the members of the Stirling School of Arts; 
and I there learned that hot water, kept in a metallic vessel 
with a bright surface, retained its heat longer than it would 
in one of a dull appearance; I likewise learned that flannel 
was a bad conductor of caloric: and an idea entered my mind 
that I could turn this to my advantage. 

I got two tin cans ; the one going within the other, and the 
inner one having no handle. When put together, there was 
a vacuity of about an inch between them. ‘The space at 
the bottom I filled with folds of flannel; rolling other folds, 
to about the same thickness, round the outside of the inner 
can, into which was poured the “halesome parritch.” The 
inner lid, which should be flat, without any handle, was then 
put on; above it I laid folds of flannel similar to those in the 
bottom, and then put the outer lid over all. When I arrived 
at the nursery, the pitchers were buried among straw in the 
cart-sheds, and remained there till nine o’clock; at which 
time I found my breakfast warm and comfortable, after hav- 
ing been cooked four hours, and carried two miles through 
an atmosphere often below the freezing point. In five minutes 
my cog [can] was cleared; and | had then fifty or fifty-five 
minutes to partake of a breakfast of another nature: which 
sometimes consisted of a slice from Loudon, or Smith, or 
Hooker; or a wander round the loch; or a clamber among 
the crags, observing the harbingers of spring with delight, 
and hailing with rapture the new-born floret. 

This shows what may be done by those who are placed in 
similar circumstances; and how those who are willing to 
improve themselves may, by adopting similar means, soon 
find themselves in possession of knowledge of which they 
may justly be proud. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
PETER MackENZIE. 

Stirlingshire, April 26. 1833. 


FF 2 


436 Influence of Climate on Vegetation. 


Art. VIII. Notes on the Influence of Climate on Vegetation, taken 
at a Lecture by Professor Lindley on that Subject, delivered at 


the Rooms of the Horticultural Society, May 9. 1833. By 
Devic Ws 


Every one who has paid great attention to plants must be 
aware that it is as important for their cultivators to know the 
kind of climate which is natural to them, as it is for them to 
know the nature of the plants themselves; yet very few gar- 
deners have more than general ideas on the subject. ‘They 
are aware that most exotic plants require heat, but their 
care of them is generally confined to this particular; and, 
without considering whether the native climate of a plant be 
moist or dry, or any other particulars respecting it, they keep 
their houses hot, and think that they have then done enough. 
It is no wonder that many plants die under such treatment ; 
and, that when they live, it is by mere chance, the gardeners 
not knowing the cause of their own success. 

Nothing can be more variable than the nature of climates. 
Countries lying under exacily the same degree of Jatitude 
have them often essentially different: and it is necessary to 
know in what these differences consist, to be able to cultivate 
properly the plants indigenous to each. Before, however, 
explaining the nature of the climates from which the plants 
cultivated in British hot-houses are generally brought, it may 
be advisable to enumerate those points, in all climates what- 
ever, which operate most strongly upon plants. The principal 
differences between climates are in their temperature, humidity, 
air, and light; all of which have a very considerable influence 
on vegetation. 

Temperature is generally thought to be, and perhaps is, the 
most essential of all these points. No seeds will germinate 
under 32° of Fahr.; and many require at least 60°. Exces- 
sive cold has a paralysing effect on plants: they droop, be- 
come languid, their organs contract, evaporation diminishes, 
and, consequently, by degrees they lose their power of taking 
food. ‘Too much heat is as fatal to vegetation as too great a 
degree of cold; and nearly the same effects are produced, 
though from oppesite causes. Excessive heat occasions such 
rapid evaporation, that the spongicles of the roots are not 
able to imbibe moisture fast enough to supply it; the leaves 
droop, and the plant dies. It is, therefore, clear that a 
proper temperature is indispensable to healthy vegetation. 
Temperature acts more on the fluids absorbed by plants than 
on the vegetable tissue ; and, consequently, plants in a dry state _ 
are the least likely to be affected by its changes. 


Influence of Climate on Vegetation. 437 


Humidity is the next important point to be attended to 
in cultivation. A certain degree of moisture is requisite to 
render vegetable tissue elastic; and, unless it possesses this 
quality, it cannot expand into leaves and fruit. If kept too 
dry, the spongioles of the roots wither, and lose their power 
of absorbing food: the food of vegetables can, indeed, only 
be absorbed when it is in a liquid state. Water is thus essen- 
tial to the life of plants: but a certain degree of knowledge, 
as to their nature and habits, is indispensable, to enable a cul- 
tivator to administer it properly; as, if too much be given, 
and the plants kept too cold, they become dropsical, the 
leaves swell and rot off, and the plant dies. This is particu- 
larly the case with the Cacti, and other succulents ; which 
are natives of a country subject to long seasons of dry wea- 
ther, and absorb moisture much more readily than they part 
with it. When this is the case, if much water be given, the 
vessels become loaded with moisture, circulation is checked, 
and disease and death ultimately ensue. 

Air is the next essential point to be attended to. From the 
atmospheric air, plants absorb the carbon which is considered 
necessary for their support. If you deprive them of atmo- 
spheric air, they languish, their leaves lose their colour, their 
flowers their scent, and their fruit its flavour ; till by degrees 
they pine away, and die at last absolutely for want of food. 

Light is the power which enables plants to decompose 
atmospheric air, and to extract from it the carbon which is 
necessary for their existence; but, if exposed to more light 
than is necessary for this purpose, they are fed too fast, and 
die from over-excitement. All the secretions which give 
taste and smell depend entirely upon light and air; and it is 
_a remarkable fact, that all the most useful and finest flavoured 
fruits are brought from countries where they have abundance 
of brilliant light. Vines, Persian melons, dates, peaches, 
pomegranates, and many other of the most valuable produc- 
tions of the vegetable world, lose their finest qualities if not 
grown in a strong light; while fruits which grow naturally 
in the shade, such as wild strawberries, apples, pears, &c., are 
generally acid, and, when analysed, are found to possess very 
little sugar. Important as light is to vegetation, it requires to 
be regulated by a strict attention to the native habits of the 
plant: too much and too little being alike injurious; and, if 
carried to excess, proving equally fatal in their effects. 

Temperature, humidity, air, and light being thus proved to 
be all essential to the very existence of plants, it next becomes 


necessary to enquire what combinations of them are requisite 
FF3 


4.38 Influence of Climate on Vegetation, 


for growing those plants most commonly found in our stoves 
and green-houses. 

Many of our most beautiful exotic plants come from be- 
tween the tropics: to know how to manage them advantage- 
ously, we must, therefore, consider what is the usual climate 
of their native region. ‘These plants may be divided into 
seven classes, according to their habitats; and we take their 
native climates in succession. 

The first class are those plants which grow in the open 
plains, exposed to bright sunshine, and enjoying abundance 
of air. Here there are two essentials, without which tropical 
plants of this description cannot be expected to thrive; viz., 
light and air: the latter being, of course, warm, to imitate 
that of their native plains. ‘These countries are subject to 
long seasons of drought, followed by heavy rains, lasting for 
several months. ‘The plants have, consequently, two distinct 
periods: one of growth, during which they require heat and 
abundant moisture; and one of repose, during which they 
also want excessive heat, but accompanied by complete 
drought. Very few gardeners ever think of this: even the 
more scientific are generally satisfied with learning the degree 
of heat which the plants can bear in their native regions; but 
the accompanying circumstances are rarely, if ever, taken into 
consideration. It is so difficult to imagine circumstances 
totally different from those by which,we have been always 
surrounded, that very few gardeners can be persuaded to give 
their plants no water for several weeks or months, and to in- 
undate them at another season: yet, without this treatment, 
the plants must be in an unnatural state, and cannot be 
expected to thrive. Another important mistake is, keeping 
the stove at the same temperature during the night as during 
the day. Gardeners often appear to think that they have not 
done their duty by their plants unless they have made them 
quite as warm and comfortable for the night as, perchance, 
they would like to be themselves. Nothing can be more con- 
trary to nature than this practice; as, in most hot countries, 
the nights are comparatively cold. 

Plants from the woody districts between the tropics require 
very different management from those which grow in the 
plains. Many of the orchideous plants, and the exotic ferns, 
grow in shady places, sheltered from every blast of wind, and 
flourish in an atmosphere almost stifling from its warmth and 
moisture. ‘These plants, if exposed to the same treatment as 
those from open plains requiring the same degree of heat, 
would inevitably die, as air and bright light would destroy 
them. In their native country, the epiphytes grow on the 


Influence of Climate on Vegetation. 439 


branches of trees (as ferns and other plants sometimes do in 
moist situations in Britain), sending down their long fibrous 
roots in search of moisture, and requiring no soil save what 
may have been accidentally deposited on the branch which 
forms their habitation. Want of attention to this fact long 
prevented, or at least greatly impeded, the cultivation of this 
beautiful class of plants in stoves; and, even so late as 1822, 
the Berlin botanic garden, one of the richest in Europe, could 
boast of only nineteen species: now, there are above three 
hundred cultivated in the nursery of the Messrs. Loddiges 
alone; and very large private collections are to be found in 
various parts of the kingdom. 

Islands between the tropics have a different climate from 
that of the main land, in the same latitude. ‘They, even in the 
dry season, in the nights, have heavy dews. The plants from 
these countries require less repose; they are always in a 
growing state; and they should have nearly the same degree 
of heat in the night as in the day. ‘The temperature, gene- 
rally, should be more moderate and less varying. Many West 
Indian and New Zealand plants rank in this class. 

A great number of valuable and favourite plants come from 
Africa, a country which varies very much in its climates. 
The regions from which most of the African plants are 
brought may be divided into three classes.. In the first, the 
neighbourhood of Senegambia, tiie Congo River, and settle- 
ments on the coast of Sierra Leone, there are, alternately, wet 
and dry seasons. During the latter, the face of the whole 
country appears parched and withered ; but, immediately that 
the rainy season commences, the whole vegetation of the 
country bursts into life. The plants grow with a luxuriance 
and rapidity scarcely to be conceived, immense leaves unfold 
themselves, and the soil is covered with a dense mass of rich 
verdure. 

The immense arid plains extending from the Cape of Good 
Hope into the interior of Southern Africa, known by the name 
of the Great Karroo, or Desert, present a scorched and barren 
surface during the greater part of the year. The plants never | 
grow close enough together to give the appearance of a mass 
of vegetation ; and, during all the dry season, extreme sterility 
is the characteristic of the scene. But, as soon as the rains 
fall, the whole face of the country suddenly changes: bulbous- 
rooted plants push up their innumerable leaves and. gaudy 
flowers, the Mesembryanthema unfold their glittering blos- 
soms, and, for a brief month or six weeks, Flora occupies the 
karroos in her gayest forms: but, in August, the sun over- 


comes the humidity of the air and earth; leaves wither up; 
FF 4 


44.0 Influence of Climate on Vegetation. 


flowers perish; dry fruits appear; and, presently, nothing 
remains to view except plants with either hard and dry, or 
extremely succulent leaves, to enable them to absorb moisture 
from the atmosphere, and to impede too rapid an evaporation 
during the dry months. 

In Mexico, the climate is generally temperate; but the 
mountainous parts differ very considerably from the plains. 
Bagdad is subject to variations of intense heat and cold, and 
occasionally to heavy rains. 

In the polar regions, where there is perpetual light during 
six months of the year, and darkness during the remainder, 
the plants are weak and stunted. ‘They grow slowly; and 
trees, large in other countries, dwindle down to the size of 
shrubs. 

Besides the differences of climate already enumerated, there 
are other circumstances which require the attention of the 
gardener. One is the effect produced by the pressure of the 
atmosphere. Mountain plants will not thrive well in plains ; 
and will die there, though enjoying exactly the same heat as 
in their native countries. Light, it has been already shown, 
has a very material influence on vegetation. When exposed 
to it, plants give ovt their oxygen, and evaporation proceeds 
rapidly. Mountain plants are generally covered with snow 
during winter; and thus enjoy a season of complete repose, 
and equal temperature, in darkness. When plants thus ha- 
bituated are long exposed to the light, they are too much 
excited, and become so feeble as to be unable to resist the 
cold. Experiments have been tried for keeping alpine plants 
in darkness during winter, which have proved successful. 

Almost all plants require alternate seasons of repose and. 
growth; and many, if forced too much, and kept continually 
growing, will die. As an instance of the power of rest: from 
accidental circumstances, a plant, generally difficult to flower, 
was found to grow 7 ft. high in one season, and was covered 
with thousands of blossoms. ‘The plant had been forced very 
rapidly; and afterwards, in order to make room for others 
coming into flower, put away in a dark place, and completely 
neglected for several months. It had thus a complete period 
of rest; and, when again forced, it blossomed profusely, as 
before stated, and was never seen finer in China. Nothing 
can be more at variance with the ordinary practice of gar- 
deners than this treatment: it is, indeed, impossible, where 
plants from different countries, and, of course, habituated to 
different climates, are all mixed together in one house. Plants, 
when in a state of repose, have also an untidy and desolate 
appearance ; very annoying to gardeners, who pique them- 
selves on their plants always looking well. 


Remarks on Blight. , 4A 


To cultivate exotic plants well, every gardener should have 
seven or eight different houses, each of which should be de- 
voted to plants requiring a particular climate. This would 
render collections of plants much more interesting than they 
are at present; since, from the power that all plants possess 
of accommodating themselves to circumstances, those culti- 
vated in stoves in Britain are in a decidedly artificial state, 
and retain but few of their original habits. Many of the 
peculiarities of the different climates which have been enu- 
merated may be easily imitated: where excessive light is 
required, the houses should have iron framework, and white 
clear glass; where less light is wanted, wood framework 
might be employed; and, for those plants which require 
shade, to wooden frames might be added green glass, or netting, 
or climbers, or even wooden shutters. It is not more difficult 
to give proper proportions of air and moisture. Vapour is 
easily produced for those plants which require a suffocating 
moist heat, by throwing water on a heated floor. In this 
manner, with such additions as will, of course, suggest them- 
selves to an experienced gardener, the native climates of 
almost all kinds of plants may be correctly imitated ; but it 
can never be too often repeated, that all will be comparatively 
useless unless the plants are allowed proper periodical rests. 
The taking up of tulips and hyacinths, and of the roots of 
georginas, &c., affords an illustration of the same principle. 
Nearly all foreign bulbs die after the first season, if left to 
winter in the ground. 

Such was the general purport of Dr. Lindley’s lecture ; 
into which, however, a great deal more was introduced than 
we were able to note down. As climate is a subject than 
which nothing more interesting to gardeners can be named, 
and on which scarcely any thing is known correctly, it is to 
be hoped that Dr. Lindley may be induced, on some future 
occasion, himself to lay the detailed result of his enquiries 


before the public. Ue Vea Oe 


Art. IX. On what is vulgarly called Blight on Plants. 
By Mr. JAMEs WEsB. 
Sir, 

Havine been much gratified, as well as instructed, by the 
very excellent article in your last Number on mildew, I take 
the liberty of suggesting that you would render a very essential 
service to gardeners, by giving an article explaining what is 


4.42 Remarks on Blight. 


commonly, but I suspect improperly, called blight. On look- 
ing into several dictionaries for the meaning of this word, I 
find that by some it is called a disease, by others a wither- 
ing, &c. Johnson calls it mildew; and in Crabbe’s Techno- 
logical Dictionary it is described in such a manner as to include 
both what constitutes the mildew and the smut. On con- 
versing with several gardeners and farmers, I find many have 
not any distinct ideas on the subject of either mildew or blight. 
Some consider the former a disease in the juices; others that 
it is produced by insects; some attributing it to the real cause, 
fungi; and some think that it may proceed sometimes from 
one cause and sometimes from another. The paper in your 
last Number (p. 325.), to which I allude, distinctly points out 
parasitic fungi as mildew; and I apprehend it is no less 
certain that what is generally termed blight is produced by 
insects. It seems to me, however, that the term blight ought 
to be restricted to such a withering or blasting of plants as we 
sometimes see produced by lightning, or sudden alternations 
of extreme cold and extreme heat. The smut appears to me 
an organic disease; and if this be the case, we have here 
three distinct terms for three distinct manners in which plants 
are injuriously affected, independently of the evils produced 
by insects; to express some of which the term blight is now 
generally made use of. In speaking of the injuries done by 
insects, it will generally be necessary to add to the general 
term insect the name of the kind or the class; such as the 
A‘phis, green, black, and woolly; or of the class, as the cater- 
pillar; of which last there is a great variety of sorts, some 
of which, when they appear on trees, are called blight; and, 
when on gooseberries or currants, simply caterpillars. How- 
ever, I leave the arrangement of the subject entirely in your 
hands, and beg to subscribe myself Sir, yours, &c. 
Hampstead, June 29. 1833. James WEBB. 


Inro our last Number (p. 334.) we quoted from the Ento- 
mological Magazine, No. ii., an interesting notice on the cotton 
blight of the apple tree, A’phis lanigera, from an able contri- 
bution to the latter work by Rusticus of Godalming. In 
No. iii. of the Entomological Magazine, published in April, 
the same writer has communicated a series of facts on the 
species of A’phis generally, and especially on the hop fly, 
A’phis humuli. Rusticus, besides describing the habits of 
this particular species, shows that its prevalence or compara- 
tive absence, insignificant as so diminutive a creature may 


Remarks on Aphides. 44.3 


seem, has been known to influence the returns of the hop 
trade to the amount of 426,000/. in one year (1825), in the 
duty alone; and, says Rusticus, “ this seems a large sum, 
but it is not one twentieth part of the sums gained and lost by 
dealers during 1825, and the following year, 1826.” 

We omit to notice in detail the interesting statements sup- 
plied on this species, and present, by permission, our young 
gardening friends with the remarks of Rusticus on the habits 
of the species of A‘phis generally, because we feel conscious 
that they will prove highly interesting and instructive. 


“ The true blight, or aphis, is a quiet, dull, stupid-looking insect, mostly 
without wings, but sometimes it has four, two of which are much larger and 
longer than the other two, and fold over and hide them, reaching beyond 
the body and meeting together behind it: these wings are generally as clear 
as crystal, with a few veins in them, yet if you hold the insect in the sun- 
shine, and examine him through a glass, you will find they take all the 
colours of the rainbow: you will also find he has a long trunk or sucker, 
which is used as a pump or siphon, through which the sap of plants is 
drawn. Ihave sometimes seen this sucker so long as to pass under the 
breast and legs, and reach a considerable distance behind the body, but 
it is not generally so. All blights infest the young and juicy shoots and 
leaves of plants, for the purpose of sap-sucking: and the plants honoured 
by their operations forthwith play the most amusing and incredible 
vagaries: bearing blossoms instead of leaves, leaves instead of blossoms: 
twisting into corkscrews stems which ought to be straight, and making 
straight as sticks those which, like the scarlet runner and hop, ought to 
twine; sometimes, as in the peach, making the leaves hump up in the 
middle, and causing the tree to look as though it had a famous crop of 
young fruit ; making apple trees bear blossoms on their roots, and causing 
roots to grow out of their young shoots; and, by tormenting orchards in 
this way, preventing the fruit from ripening, and making it woolly, taste- 
less, and without juice. Our China asters often owe a good deal of their 
beauty to these vermin; they act as a spur to make them blossom beyond 
their strength and nature, and then die off without bearing seed. It is 
amusing to see with what regularity the blight station themselves on the 
young shoots of the Guelder rose, crowding so close together that not a 
morsel of the rind is to be seen, and not unfrequently forming a double 
tier, or two thicknesses; the poor sprig losing its formal unbending up- 
right position, and writhing itself into strange contortions. 

* Blights are of all colours, but green is their most fashionable hue; 
those of broad beans are black as soot, and velvety ; and these, if attended 
to, do but little harm; they cluster at the very top, and each bean should be 
lopped just below the blight, and the top carried away and burnt, not 
thrown on the ground, or else they are sure to climb up the bean stalks 
again, and, stopping here and there at the best landing place, to increase 
and multiply, thus soon covering the whole plant; nor should they be 
buried in the ground, for they take care to outwit you by living under 
ground for months, and, when the gardener’s spade turns them up again, 
they make for the beans directly: the plan of lopping the beans does 
not injure the crop, but, if carefully done, rather improves it. The blight 
of the willow is very large, and, at first sight looks greyish, but under a 
glass is beautifully variegated with black and white: when crushed it 
gives out a deep blood-coloured dye, which stays on your hand several 
days, in spite of frequent washings. , 


444 Remarks on Aphides. 


“‘ T have taken a good deal of pains to find out the birth and parentage 
of true blights; and for this purpose have watched, day after day, the 
colonies of them in my own garden, and single ones which I have kept in 
doors, and under tumblers turned upside down: the increase is prodi- 
gious ; it beats every thing of the kind that I have ever seen, heard, or 
read of. Insects in general come from an egg; then turn to a caterpillar, 
which does nothing but eat; then to a chrysalis, which does nothing but 
sleep; then to a perfect beetle or fly, which does nothing but increase its 
kind. But blights proceed altogether on another system; the young ones 
are born exactly like the old ones, but less; they stick their beaks through 
the rind, and begin drawing sap when only a day old, and go on quietly 
sucking away for seven or eight days; and then, without love, courtship, 
or matrimony, each individual begins bringing forth young ones, and con- 
tinues to do so for months, at the rate of from a dozen to eighteen every 
day, and yet continues to increase in size all the while: there seem to be 
no males, no drones, all bring forth alike. Early in the year these blights 
are scattered along the stems, but as soon as the little ones come to light, 
and commence sap-sucking close to their mother, the spaces get filled up, 
the old ones look like giants among the rest, as here and there an ox in a 
flock of sheep; when all the spare room is filled up, and the stalk com- 
pletely covered. The young ones, when they make their first appearance 
in the world, seem rather posed as to what to be at, and stand quietly on 
the backs of the others for an hour or so; then, asif having made up their 
minds, they toddle upwards, walking on the backs of the whole flock till they 
arrive at the upper end, and then settle themselves quietly down, as close 
as possible to the outermost of their friends, and then commence sap-suck- 
ing like the rest; the flock by this means extends in length every day, and 
at last the growing shoot is overtaken by their multitude, and completely 
covered to the very tip. Towards autumn, however, the blights undergo a 
change in their nature: their feet stick close to the rind, their skin opens 
along the back, and a winged blight comes out — the summer generations 
being entirely wingless. These are male and female, and fly about and 
enjoy themselves; and, what seems scarcely credible, these winged females 
lay eggs, having first lived through the winter; and, whilst this operation 
is going on, a solitary winged blight may be observed on the under side of 
the leaves, or on the young shoots, particularly on the hop, and differing 
from all its own progeny, in being winged and nearly black, whereas its 
young are green and without wings. In May, a fly lays a lot of eggs; 
these eggs hatch and become blights; these blights are viviparous, and 
that without the usual union of sexes, and so are their children and grand- 
children, the number of births depending solely on the quantity and quality 
of their food; at last, as winter approaches, the whole generation, or 
series of generations, assumes wings, which the parents did not possess, 
undergoes frequently a total change in colour, and in the spring, instead 
of being viviparous, lays eggs. 

“ You will never find a plant of any kind infested with the aphis, without 
also observing a number of ants and ladybirds among them, and also a 
queer-looking insect, like a fat lizard, which is in fact the caterpillar of 
the ladybird. The connection of the ant and the aphis is of the most 
peaceful kind that can be conceived ; their object is the honeydew which 
the aphis emits; and, far from hurting the animal which affords them this 
pleasant food, they show it the greatest possible attention and kindness, 
licking it all over with their tongues, and fondling it, and patting it, and 
caressing it with their antenne in the kindest prettiest way imaginable : 
not so the ladybird, or its lizard-like caterpillar; these feed on the blights 
most voraciously, a single grub clearing a leaf, on which were forty or 
more, in the course of a day. The perfect ladybird is a decided enemy 


Remarks on Aphides. 445 


to them *, but not so formidable a one as the grub. The eggs of the lady- 
bird may often be seen on the hop leaf; they are yellow, and five or six 
in a cluster placed on their ends: these should on no account be de- 
stroyed, as is too often the case; but, on the contrary, every encourage- 
ment should be given to so decided a friend to the hop-grower. 

“ Besides the ladybird and its grub, there are two other terrible enemies 
to the poor aphis; one of which is a green ungainly-looking grub, with- 
out legs, which lies flat on the surface of the leaf, and stretches out its 
neck just like a leech, till it touches one of them; directly he feels one 
he seizes it in his teeth, and holds it up wriggling in the air, till. he has 
sucked ali the goodness out of it, and left it amere empty skin. This curious 
creature turns to a fly [one of the Sjrphide, Hd. Hnt. Mag.], which has a 
body banded with different colours, and which in summer you may often 
observe under trees and about flowers, standing quite still in the air, as 
though asleep, yet, if you try to catch him, darting off like an arrow. 
The other has'six legs, and very large strong curved jaws, and is a most 
ferocious-looking fellow, strutting about with the wings of the blights 
which he has killed on his back. This fierce fellow comes to a very 
beautiful fly [Chrysopa Pérla, Ed. Ent. Mag.) with four wings, all divided 
into meshes like a net, and two beautiful golden eyes. All these creatures, 
which thus live on the plant lice, have a very strong and disagreeable smell 
in the perfect state. 

“ For a favourite plant infested with blight there are several remedies —- 
smoke of tobacco, snuff, &c.; but the most effectual, and, the least hurtful to 
the plant, is to let it stand in a tank of cold water for half an hour, when 
all the blights will leave it, and swim on the surface of the water. For 
hops, none of these plans are available; and, unless a way could be dis- 
covered of increasing the number of the blight-eaters, I fear the chance 
of discovering a remedy is very small.” — Rusticus. Godalming, September 
16. 1832. (Entomological Magazine, No. i. p. 217, 224.) 


* The larch tree has, at least when planted over chalk, in some seasons, 
its foliage, soon after it is expanded, speckled all over with minute clusters 
of white down; in each of which a group of animated atoms, or creatures, 
nestle. These are individuals of an insect named, I have been told, Céccus 
laricis; and I may here incidentally advise no one, when clad in a new 
coat, to pass through a plantation of larch on which, and while, these pre- 
vail. The first instance I had the pleasure to witness of the golden bug’s 
devouring small insects was some eight years ago, when I saw it attacking 
these Cécci, on the branch of a young larch tree. I was struck with the 
determination and the comparative speed with which the Coccinélla took 
them one by one out of my sight into its mouth. 

It is dangerous to be found in bad company. Because the golden bug is 
often seen in company with A’phides, Cocci, &c., it has been deemed the 
parent of them by the unthinking. An amateur florist, aged perhaps fifty- 
five years, so skilled as to occasionally win prizes with his productions at 
the horticultural society’s shows in the neighbourhood, once accompanied 
me round a garden, and, on his observing a golden bug or two on plants that 
we passed, he picked them off, and crushed them to death, remarking at 
the time, with an air of complaisant approbation of his judgment and zeal, 
“ Nasty things! they breed lice and all sorts of vermin.” Mr. Major has 
given, in Vol. LV. p.445., an accurate notice on the habits of the golden 
bug and its larva. — J. D. 


446 Short Communications. 


Art. X. Short Communications. 


A CHEAP Mode of making Hand Glasses for striking Cuttings, 
$c. — Now that glass is so dear, a substitute for blown hand 
glasses is not valueless. Let the gardener provide himself 
with a glazier’s patent diamond, with which any one can cut, 
and cut up any pieces of broken window glass into figures 
appropriate in size and form for the sides of four or six 
sided prisms, terminated by four or six sided pyramids, thus 


(fig. 114.) : — 


When the pieces of glass are properly cut out (by a 
wooden or card pattern), let him joint them together with 
strips of tape about three eighths of an inch wide, made to 
adhere to the glass with Indian-rubber varnish: they will be 
found to form, when the tape is again varnished over, firm 
and durable hand glasses, and may be made as much as 
12in. in diameter: a loop of wire may be passed loosely 
through the top to lift them by. A winter’s evening spent 
in making them would save some expense, and, possibly, in 
some instances, gain the advantages of hand glasses where 
they could not be readily procured. Iam, Sir, yours, &c.— 
Robert Mallet. 94. Capel Street, Dublin, Dec. 15. 1832. 

The Early Shore Potato prolific in Tubers; and its Tubers 
are, occasionally, very large. — Sir, A gardener in this town, 
upon a rich bog earth, raised a most extraordinary crop of 
the early shore potato, about the culture of which no par- 
ticular pains’ were taken; they were generally of great size; 
but one was ascertained to weigh 4? Ibs. Last year the same 
gardener took up two roots of the same stock of potatoes ; 
weighing respectively 2 stones 6 lbs., and 2 stones 1 lb.; of 
which one potato weighed 23 lbs. Had not the man been a 
good and old gardener, a market gardener, I should have 
doubted the potatoes being early shore; but they undoubtedly 
were of that stock, and not very large originally; the result 
must have been owing to the bog earth (meadow land dug up 
deep).—T. W. 8S. Woodbridge, March 14. 1833. 


447 


REVIEWS. 


Art. I. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, 
Rural Architecture, &c., lately published, with some Account 
of those considered the most interesting. 


Drummond, W. and Sons, Nursery and Seedsmen, Stirling: 
Report of the Exhibition of Agricultural Productions, &c., 
held at Stirling, from Nov. 16. 1832, to March 13. 1833, 
with Communications on the following important Subjects : 
viz.. Wedge and Tile Draining; Thorough Drainage, and 
Deep Ploughing; Bones as a Manure; and the Improve- 
ment of Agricultural Plants. Pamph. 8vo. Stirling, 
1833. Is. 


We have before (Vol. VIII. p. 639.) noticed the meritorious 
exertions of Messrs. Drummond in originating this description 
of agricultural exhibition; and we have great pleasure in per- 
ceiving, by the pamphlet of which the above is the title, that 
it has continued with increasing prosperity and usefulness. 
‘* The rapidity with which, from being merely Drummond and 
Sons’ exhibition, it has assumed the character of that of the 
whole surrounding country, could scarcely have been antici- 
pated.” In order to give our readers some idea of the effect 
of this exhibition, we may state that Messrs. Drummond’s 
premises consist of one long room, and that the articles were 
arranged along the sides of the room, with a broad open 
space as a path in the middle. The arrangement, as far as 
practicable, was in species and varieties, in order to aid com- 
parison. ‘The first division consisted of roots and vegetables, 
being chiefly turnips, but partly also carrots, potatoes, man- 
gold wurtzel, and cabbage. The second consisted of specimens 
of grain, among which were a great many different sorts of 
wheat, a number of sorts of barley, oats, rye, beans, vetches, 
and millet. ‘The third class consisted of manufactured pro- 
duce, such as wheaten flour, barley meal, pease flour, oat- 
meal of various kinds, pot barley, linseed meal, split beans, 
half-ground beans for cow-feeders, malt, potato flour, tapi- 
oca of the potato, true tapioca, India arrow-root flour, mac- 
caroni, Dunlop and other cheeses, including ewe-milk 
cheese. ‘The fourth class consisted of grasses and herbage 
plants, in seeds, in dried specimens, and in bundles. The 


448  Drummond’s Exhibition of Agricultural Productions. 


fifth or miscellaneous class consisted of models of different 
kinds: straw ropes, wheat straw for thatching, and a great 
variety of other articles. Among them was a specimen of a 
beech hedge from Messrs. Drummond’s nursery grounds, the 
details respecting the management of which may prove in- 
structive to others of the profession. ‘*’The mode of rearing 
this hedge is simply by annually cutting the sides close in, 
and nearly perpendicular, but never the tops, until they ar- 
rive at the desired height. Each plant has thus a fine stem 
(6 inches separate), well feathered, and the hedge presents a 
close surface of leaves, occupying no more space than a com- 
mon garden wall. Nine hundred yards of these hedges have 
been kept from 7 to 8 ft.in height more than 20 years, increas- 
ing in width only 2in. or 3in. Height of the specimen, 7 ft. ; 
width at bottom, 15in.; width at 6 in. from the top, 12 in.” 

The sixth class consisted of garden produce, and included 
numerous specimens of roots, fruits, seeds, &c., and models 
of moss houses, of * Ellen’s Bower” in the island of Loch 
Katrine, and of a hollow brick wall. The seventh class con- 
sisted of implements. Among these were Smith of Deanston’s 
subsoil plough, with the following label :— “ Used on Deans- 
ton farm; drawn by four horses, yoked two and two. A 
furrow, about 12 in. broad and 2 in, deep, is taken up by the 
common plough, when the subsoil plough follows, going from 
16 in. to 18 in. deep from the surface; will plough a Scotch 
acre in 9 hours, turning out all the stones not exceeding 
2 cwt., and completely opening up the subsoil. Cost of a 
plough, with soam chain and two socks, from 7/. to 87.” We 
wish to call the attention of gardeners to this plough, which 
we are persuaded they might frequently use to advantage in 
preparing extensive surfaces for planting. 

The communications occupy 32 pages, and well deserve 
the perusal of every agriculturist. “The pamphlet is so cheap, 
that every reading farmer should procure it. The following 
interesting passage occurs at the end of Mr. Smith of Dean- 
ston’s article on thorough drainage and deep ploughing 
(Mr. Smith is considered one of the most scientific mechanical 
engineers in Scotland, as well as a man of singular origin- 
ality and invention) :— - 

‘¢ The complete drainage of land is the foundation of all 
good husbandry........ The general improvement of the 
soil of the country would tend to lower the value of high- 
rented land; but then the aggregate rental of the kingdom 
would be greatly increased, whilst the general average cost of 
the produce would be considerably diminished, affording 
cheap provisions to the consumer, whilst both the landowner 


Loudon’s Encyclopedia of Architecture. 449 


and tenant would have greater returns. By this great public 
benefit would arise. Labour would, in the first place, be 
more in demand, and the labouring classes of all professions 
would be able to live more comfortably; the British manu- 
facturer would be aided in his competition with the cheap la- 
bour of other countries; the general revenue of the country 
would be greatly increased, thereby diminishing the pressure 
of the national debt; whilst the salubrity of the climate, and 
general beauty of the country, would be vastly promoted. 
There is no subject, therefore, more worthy the attention of 
landed proprietors and agricultural associations, and, in- 
deed, of all who desire to promote the prosperity of their 
country, than the encouragement of the thorough drainage 
and deep working of land.” 

We strongly recommend the establishment of exhibitions 
of this kind by the principal seedsmen in our provincial towns 
every where. By collecting so many interesting articles, and 
displaying them, as is done at Stirling, for four months, no 
farmer who comes to market can escape seeing them; and he 
must be a lifeless piece of dough, indeed, who would not be 
stimulated by them to introduce better varieties of grain and 
roots, and improved implements, on his own farm. 


Loudon, J. C.: An Encyclopedia of Cottage, Farm, and Villa 
Architecture and Furniture ; containing numerous Designs 
for Dwellings, from the Cottage to the Villa, including 

Farm Houses, Farmeries, and other Agricultural Build- 
ings; several Designs for Country Inns, Public Houses, 
and Parochial Schools; with the requisite Fittings-up, Fix- 
tures, and Furniture; and appropriate Offices, Gardens, and 

Garden Scenery ; each Design accompanied with Analyti- 

cal and Critical Remarks, illustrative of the Principles of 

Architectural Science and ‘Taste on which it is composed. 

Illustrated by nearly 100 lithographs, and above 2000 

engravings on wood. 8vo, pp. 1138. London, 1833. 

31, 

This work, which is one of the cheapest which ever issued 
from the British press, will, we trust, have as much effect in 
spreading a taste for rural and domestic architecture, as our 
Encyclopedia of Gardening has done for that art. It is not 
for us to give our own opinion of the work, though we are 
fairly entitled to do so to a certain extent, since the designs 
which constitute by far the most important part of the book, 
have been contributed by upwards of seventy different indivi- 
duals, including some of the first, and, in our opinion, the 
very first, of British architects. We must say, we have been 
Vou. IX. — No. 45, GG 


iv 


450 Jopling’s Isometrical Perspective. 


highly gratified by the manner in which it has been received 
by the public; and though it is so cheap that it will probably 
not pay its expenses for some years, yet it delights us to 
think of the good which, in the mean time, it will do, not only 
in Britain, but in America. 


Jopling, Joseph, Esq., Architect: The Practice of Isometrical 
Perspective. Part I. price 1s.; to be completed in four 
Parts. London, 1833. 


Isometrical perspective is by far the most useful kind for 
the landscape-gardener and garden architect; because it 
alone, of all the different manners of drawing, contains the 
true principle of drawing maps and plans of grounds and 
buildings, so as to show the heights and shapes of the objects. 
The young gardener, who does not understand isometrical 
perspective (which we have briefly explained in Vol. VI. 
p- 351. fig. 77.), we hold to be unfit for acting either 
as a delineator of plans for laying out pleasure grounds, 
or for building the walls of kitchen-gardens, or erecting 
hot-houses. We, therefore, strongly recommend this little 
work to all such of our young readers as are ambitious 
of rising in their profession. We would also strongly 
recommend Mr. Jopling to render his work, in a peculiar 
manner, fitting for the gardener, land-surveyor, and mine- 
ralogical surveyor, by showing the application of isometrical 
perspective to rural scenery, and imagining plans and sec- 
tions of mineral districts. Ata late meeting of the Society 
of Civil Engineers, at which we were present, an admirable 
map of a mineral district in Northumberland, with the sec- 
tions, in different directions, of all the various strata, was 
exhibited and explained; expressly for the purpose of show- 
ing how well adapted isometrical perspective is for this 
description of delineation. Its application to garden scenery 
we have shown in our Jilustrations of Landscape-Gardening, 
and to farm buildings in our Encyclopedia of Architecture. 
Its application to machines and various objects may be seen 
in the Mechanics’ Magazine, one of the cheapest and best 
books that a gardener can take in. 


Timbs, J., Author of varicus works, Editor: The Mirror of 
Literature, Amusement, Instruction, &e. London. In 
weekly 8vo numbers, price 2d. each. ’ 


Ibid: Arcana of Science and Art; or, an Annual Register of 
Useful Inventions, Improvements, &c., with 43 engray- 
ings. Small 8vo. London, 1833. 5s. 


The twenty-first volume of the Mirror having been sent us, 


Nees von Esenbeck’s Flora Germanica. 451 


probably on account of the number of articles which it con- 
tains from both our Magazines, we willingly notice it, to say 
that we do not know a cheaper or more entertaining work. 
There is about as much matter in one of these twopenny 
numbers as there is in three of the Penny Magazines, and the 
woodcuts, though not nearly so large as in the latter work, 
are yet equally well done, and sufficiently explanatory. On 
the whole, like the Arcana of Science, it is a book well 
adapted for being presented to gardeners by their employers. 
This latter we have before sufficiently commended ; and need 
only add that the present volume is not inferior to any of its 
predecessors. 


Nees von Esenbeck, Th. Fr. Lud. Phil. et Med. Dr. in Uni- 
versitate Fredericia Wilhelmia Rhenana Professor: Genera 
Plantarum Floree Germanicze Iconibus et Descriptionibus 
illustrata.. Fasciculus I. 8vo, 20 plates and 43 pages of 
letterpress. Bonn on the Rhine, 1833. 4s. 


This work is wholly in elucidation of systematic botany. 
It is written throughout in Latin, and the amount of the 
remarks with which the author prefaces his first number (fasci- 
culus) of the work is this: — He deems the accurate determi- 
nation and knowledge of the characters of genera to be the 
very foundation of systematic botany, and he desires and 
intends to illustrate by descriptions and by figures the cha- 
racters of the genera indigenous to Germany, that they may 
become easily and accurately known to tyroes. He states 
that he has not prosecuted the dissections to an extreme 
length (although, we think, quite far enough for the end pro- 
posed), that the price of his work might not be so increased, 
as in this case it needs must have been, as to place it beyond 
the reach of those for whose benefit he designs it. The 
author has determined to delineate and describe every cha- 
racter he notices from Nature herself; a resolution that can- 
not be too much commended, but which entails on him 
numerous difficulties. He remarks, however, that, notwith- 
standing this, he shall, if blessed with continued health, 
proceed cheerfully in his task, if the sale of the work shall 
prove adequate to the necessity of the case. ‘The preface is 
dated “ Bonn on the Rhine, March 1. 1833.” 

We now notice the work itself, in which some one species of 
each of the genera illustrated is chosen as a suitable example 
of the genus to which it belongs, and then all the parts of 
fructification of that species are exhibited in a plate of figures, 
and explained in the text by descriptions relative to them: to 


these descriptions are prefixed the prescriptive characters of 
GG 2 


452 Mirbel’s Observations on Vegetation. 


the genus. The contents of the first fasciculus illustrate the 
genera of the families Coniferae, Betulaceae, Cupuliferze, Pla- 
tanaceee, Salicinaee. We shall now name the genera illustrated, 
and attach to the name of each the number of the figures 
given in illustration of it. The doing of this will enable the 
reader to judge how elaborately the author has treated his 
subject. Family Coniferee: genus Pinus Lk. 24 figures ; 
genus Picea Li. 15 figures; Abies Lk. 21; Larix Tourn. 19; 
Cupréssus Rich. 20; Thuja Rich. 17; Juniperus Lin. 25; 
E’phedra Tourn. 28; Taxus Tourn. 21. Family Betulacez: 
Bétula Tourn. 24; Anus Tourn. 25. Family Cupuliferee : 
Carpinus Tourn. 26; O’strya Mich. 16; Corylus Linn. 27; 
Quércus Linn. 19; Fagus Tourn. 26; Castanea Tourn. 20. 
Family Platandcese: Platanus 28. Family Salicinee: Salix 
Tourn, 24; Populus Tourn. 19. ‘The figures to each genus 
are on one page or plate, and the descriptions invariably 
occupy the two pages of a leaf opposite ; an arrangement 
producing the convenience of seeing all at a view, and of 
enabling the student of systematic botany to break up the 
book, and place the information supplied, by the text and 
figures, on each genus, wherever he would: this is not to 
be accomplished when the information on distinct genera is 
printed continuously on the same page, as is far too often 
done in works of this nature. ‘The figures, as a work of art, 
are most creditably executed, and in faithfulness to nature, 
we think, faultless. We are, it is true, not familiar with the 
parts of fructification of every genus illustrated, but have a 
rather intimate acquaintance with those of some of them; and 
as these are shown quite to our satisfaction, we conclude that 
the whole are unexceptionable. We observe a few, very few, 
typographical errors in the text. We are astonished at the 
cheapness of the work, and most heartily hope that on this 
account, and on account of its real merits, it will be most ex- 
tensively patronised. Arboriculturists in this kingdom should 
take the work for the sake of its elucidation of the botanical 
characters of trees, although the number of the genera of the 
wild trees of Germany is probably small in proportion to that 
of the genera of other plants. ‘The words employed in the 
Latin descriptions are for the most part those in current use 
in technical botany, and hence young gardeners and others a 
little acquainted with botany and the structure of Latin will 
be able to interpret the descriptions without difficulty. 


A Lady: General Observations on Vegetation; translated 
from the French of C. F. Brisseau Mirbel; to which are 
added numerous and extensive Notes: intended to inspire 


Banks's Introduction to English Botany. 4.53 


young Persons with a taste for Botany, by presenting to 
them a Birdseye View of the whole Vegetable Kingdom. 
Small 8vo, 104 pages. London, 1833. 3s. 6d. 


It strikes us that this little book can only be appreciated 
by those who are already acquainted with rather many genera 
and species of plants, particularly of exotic ones, and who 
are unable, or have not an opportunity, to read the French 
original. ‘To such the interesting information supplied on 
the numerous plants spoken of must be very welcome; 
and the book is very eligible for presenting to many an in- 
telligent and aspiring young gardener, and to young ladies 
and gentlemen who have already acquired the power of dis- 
tinguishing and naming many plants. In the notes are sup- 
plied the technical or distinctive characters of the orders and 
genera spoken of; but we see in this provision but little 
utility, as we fear no one, or but extremely few, will read the 
writer’s book, who has to acquire a knowledge of these cha- 
racters as he or she proceeds, ere he or she can attain to the 
enjoyment and full understanding of the text itself. 

One of the titles of the book is Botanical Geography, and 
it, in short, notices the more striking of the families planted 
over our planet, and the principal of the attributes, charac- 
teristics, and properties of each. 


Banks, George, ¥.L.S.: An Introduction to the Study of 
English Botany ; with a Glossary of Terms.  Ilustrated 
by 37 plates. The second edition. Svo, 94 pages. London, 
ISB25 OSs 


The thirty-seven plates are admirably executed, and faith- 
fully portray the plants, and parts of plants, which they are 
meant to represent. As each plate bears several figures, the 
whole taken together illustrate many of the botanic terms, 
while the text enumerates, explains, and refers to plants by 
name for examples of the remainder. It is a clear catalogue 
of the terms used in Linnzean botany, and will be an elegant 
and useful manual to ladies and others commencing the study 
of botany by this system, and who dare not commence the 
science by the natural system. ‘Towards the knowledge of 
botany by the natural system, this work also subserves, as far 
as it goes, which is a good way ; but, in the natural system, 
there are many terms in use which in this volume are not ex- 
plained. A finely engraved portrait of Linnzeus, with the 
elegant Linnee‘a borealis insculptured beneath it, is prefixed 
to the volume, which is dedicated to Dr. Hooker. 


Main, James, A.L.S. (Author of “The Villa and Cottage 
Florist’s Directory,” and Editor of the last Editions of 


GG 3 


ADA Main’s Illustrations of Vegetable Physiology. 


Mawe’s “ Every Man his own Gardener,” “ The Green- 
house Companion,” &c.): Illustrations of Vegetable Physi- 
ology, practically applied to the Garden, the Field, and 
the Forest; consisting of Original Observations collected 
during an experience of fifty years. Small 8vo, 328 pages, 
with 62 woodcuts. London, 1833. 8s. 


A look through this work has given us much pleasure, 
The author, in his preface, states that it has been his inten- 
tion torender the work “a compendium of the discoveries 
and best authenticated facts which have appeared in the 
writings of others, and which have been proved in the practice 
and experience of the writer, or in that of his contemporaries, 
during the last fifty years.” 

“‘ He trusts that new matter enough will be found to justify 
the publication ; and though but a rough sketch, which, from 
his very limited knowledge of chemistry, he has not been abie 
to fill up as he wished, still he entertains a hope that, such 
as it is, it may receive amplification from an abler pen, and 
accomplish his aim of rendering vegetable physiology better 
and more generally understood.” ‘The work has, in conse- 
quence, been so written as “to bear a popular rather than a 
scientific character, with the sole view of assisting, by fami- 
liar explanation, the various practice of the gardener and 
woodman. In fact, the principal feature of the work is an 
attempt to explain only what has been obscurely, or too learn- 
edly, treated before ; to mention circumstances which, though 
generally known, have never appeared in print; and to 
make up for deficient language by explanatory figures of the 
visible constituents of plants: the intention being, however, 
only to mark the greater parts, their limits, and their con- 
nections, leaving the minor and less striking portions of vege- 
table structure to those who may have better opportunities to 
examine and describe them.” 

The work, then, is designed to be a useful manual to 
every one who gardens, or spends more or less of his time 
among plants,.and addicts himself to the consideration and in- 
vestigation of the phenomena they display, and of the hidden 
processes carried on within them. ‘To all such persons the 
work will be useful; and as, happily (happily for their own 
happiness), persons of this class are now numerous in Britain, 
the work will doubtless become, as it is intended to be, a 
popular one; and in this view of the case we can only 
express our surprise that the publisher should have been 
tempted to fix the price of the volume so injudiciously high. 
How can we possibly recommend this small volume, of little 
more than 300 pages, to a journeyman gardener, when as 


Gardener’s and Forester’s Record. 455 


much is charged for it as he receives for a week’s labour. 
The last time we were at Woburn Abbey, the wages of the 
journeymen gardeners there were 9s. a week ; and at the seat 
of the Marquess of Chandos, Wooton, near Aylesbury, they 
are at present only 7s. ‘The cost of getting up such a work 
is not nearly so much as that required to get up the present 
Number of this Magazine, and yet the price asked is more than 
double. . 

We must not end our notice here, but, to our scientific 
readers, must remark that Mr. Main, in striving to treat the 
subject of his work in a popular manner, has not omitted to 
infuse into it, besides a copious stock of original facts, certain 
original and peculiar views on the vegetative principles them- 
selves. He even propounds a new principle: it is, that 
the life and vital processes of a plant, and the accretion to its 
bulk, and expansion of the preexistent members resident 
within it, are not instituted and carried on, in the first instance, 
in the alburnum and liber, but in a “ distinct member ” situ 
nate between these, “slightly attached to both, but united to 
neither,” to which Mr. Main has applied the terms “ indu- 
sium” and “vital envelope.’ Mr. Main offers, p. 8, 9. 134. 
and onwards, a detail of facts in proof of this opinion, 

Other points, on which the views of Mr. Main will be 
perused with interest by physiologists, are, the constitution of 
bulbs, p. 45. &c.; motion, &c. of the sap, p. 121.; origin 
of buds, p. 143.; flowers not stunted branches, p. 169.; re« 
marks on the idea that the new zone of alburnum is formed 
by descending fibres, p.212.; which idea Mr. Main is de- 
cidedly opposed to, and combats in several places. Foreshort- 
ening, in pruning, does not give clear-grained timber, p. 233. 
The propriety of decorticating trees considered, p. 287. 


Harrison, Joseph, Gardener to Lord Wharncliffe, at Wort- 
‘ley Hall, Yorkshire: The Gardener’s and Forester’s Re- 


cord. 8vo, in monthly numbers, 6d. each. 


We have already (p. 352.) noticed with approbation Mr. 
Harrison’s Floricultural Cabinet, and have now to make our 
readers acquainted with another component part of his Gar- 
dener’s Magazine. A third part is to appear, to be exclusively 
devoted to giving accounts of Provincial Horticultural So- 
cieties, but of that we have not yet seen the first number. In 
the first number of the Record there is a very excellent paper 
on the spurring-in method of pruning the vine (see Encyc. of 
Gard. § 2984.), by our correspondent Mr. Appleby. Our 
readers will see, by our literary notices, that we are threatened 


with two other rival Gardener’s Magazines, in all, eight! So 
GG 4 


456 Horticultural Journal. 


much the better, say we; for by these means the taste for 
garden enjoyments, of which reading garden works is one, 
will be firmly and extensively rooted into the country. 


Anon.: The Horticultural Journal, and Florists’ Register of 
Useful Information connected with Floriculture, &c. Dedi- 
cated to the Right Honourable the Earl of Errol and the 
Vice-Presidents of the Metropolitan Society of Florists 
and Amateurs. No. I., July. London, 1833. Price 1s. 


- This publication has come before us without our being pre- 
viously aware of its existence, and, fortunately, just in time 
for us to make it known to our readers. It contains in all 
16 pages of letterpress, and a coloured plate of the Ajax 
heartsease, and another of Clarke’s Pandora tulip. These 
two coloured prints had been previously published in the 
Ladys Magazine, from which work the plates have of course 
been borrowed. Of the 16 pages, of letterpress seven are occu- 
pied with floricultural information; the remainder with light 
diverting reading, in no way connected with the garden, save 
that a pleasant bower in a garden is a delightful place in 
which, in the sunny days of July, to sit and read. 

The contents on floriculture are, an introduction to the 
work, remarks on the tulip mania, and on the Fanny Kemble 
tulip; of the latter a figure is promised for the next number. 
The editor writes in defence of the tulip mania in the follow- 
ing manner: — “* We have as much right to laugh at an old 
booby, who, over his rusty coin cabinet, feasts his eyes on his 
fifty-guinea old coppers and sixpences, or at the silly buyer 
of daubed canvass at a thousand guineas a yard, or at the 
madman who gives a thousand pounds for a horse to break 
his own neck with, as they have at the ‘ fool who gives twenty 
or fifty guineas for a tulip.” We have heard nearly the 
same general sentiment expressed by Mr. Groom and other 
florists. To these remarks follows a description of each of the 
plants figured in the plate; then an account of the late shows 
of the London Horticultural Society, and of those of the 
Metropolitan Society of Florists and Amateurs; then of the 
annual meeting of the East London Ranunculus Society ; 
also of that of the Sunbury Horticultural and Florists’ So- 
ciety. ‘To these notices follow a ‘ new list of chrysanthe- 
mums,” taken from the Gardener’s Magazine for April, p.221.; 
an announcement of “ meetings to come;” remarks on 
‘* choosing judges;” a review of Mr. Hoge’s new book on 
floriculture, which work is censured; and a short review of 
Mr. Weedon’s book on cucumbers, which is praised. 


Maund’s Botanic Garden. 457 


Maund, Benjamin, ¥.L.S.: The Botanic Garden. In monthly 
Numbers, each containing one plate bearing figures of 
four plants, descriptions of the four plants, and an Auc- 
tarium of two pages, for the communication of notices 
deemed of interest to cultivators. Large paper, 1s. 6d.; 
small paper, 1s. 


This periodical is too well known to justify our mention 
of it among new publications, were it not that, on June 1., it 
appeared with an addition of two pages of miscellaneous 
information on floriculture, and that the two additional pages, 
which Mr. Maund denominates an Auctarium, are to be con- 
tinued in every future number, and similarly occupied. This 
addition to the contents of each number must needs be wel- 
come to the purchasers of the work. 

From the Auctarium in the June Number, and that in the 
July one, it appears that the Gardener’s Magazine is likely 
to be liberally drawn on for the supply of the information 
to be communicated in the Auctarium. This compliment to 
the merit of our work we might not have cared to note, 
save with the silence of self-approbation, but for the follow- 
ing truly notable, yet ominous, notification made by Mr. 
Maund on the cover of his June number : — “ As we do not 
like to mar the pages of the Auctarium by references to au- 
thorities, &c., we will give them, when necessary, on the 
wrapper; and, perhaps, also with the index: but this must 
generally be done on a wrapper subsequent to that enclosing 
the information, as they will oftentimes be printed before 
the arrangement of the Auctarium pages.” As in the above 
remarks, the words “when necessary,” ‘“ perhaps,” and “a 
subsequent wrapper,” leave to the uncertainty of a “ perhaps ” 
_what, and when the, citations of the authorities, or sources 
of information, are to be made, we may now notice that the 
first paragraph in the Auctarium for June, on growing “ cab- 
bages from slips,” is derived from Mr. Kendall’s communi- 
cations in the Gardener’s Magazine, Vol. IX. p. 226.; and 
that a good share of paragraph 8., on devices for iron sup- 
ports to flowering shrubs and plants, in the July Aucta- 
rium, is derived from the Gardener's Magazine, Vol. VII. 
p-. 284. Vol. VIII. p. 554. 557. 679. 


Henslow, Rev. J. S.. M.A., Professor of Botany in the Uni- 
versity of Cambridge: On a Monstrosity of the common 
Mignonette. 4to, 6 pages, 2 plates. Cambridge, 1833. 
This pamphlet is not purchasable except by buying Part I. 

of Vol. V. of The Transactions of the Cambridge Philoso- 

phical Society, in which part it forms the 4th paper: it was 


458 Rivers’s Catalogue of Roses. 


read before the Society on May 21. 1832. ‘The structure of 
the flower in the genus Zeséda has been differently explained 
by Drs. Brown and Lindley, the latter deeming it a compound 
flower, in which much metamorphosis and abortion obtains, and 
Dr. Brown maintaining that the structure of the flower is sim- 
ple. Professor Henslow has exhibited, in fullest detail, in six 
pages of text, and thirty-eight figures, the conditions in the 
structure of a most remarkable monstrosity of eséda odorata, 
with a view to its relation to the question at issue. The conclu- 
sion he has drawn agrees with Dr. Brown’s, and is opposed to 
that of Dr. Lindley. The pamphlet, or paper, is an interesting 
one to students of the anatomy and physiology of plants. 


Rivers, T. and Son, Nurserymen: A Catalogue of Roses cul- 
tivated at the Sawbridgeworth Nurseries. 


This we consider to be the most useful catalogue of roses 
in the English language; because the species and varieties 
are not only classed, and their colours given, as in our 
Hortus Britannicus, and in the Hortus Addlestonensis and 
Hortus Duroverni, but a short description of each flower is 
added. ‘To convey an idea of the completeness of the assort- 
ment, we may mention that there are 13 varieties of hardy 
climbing roses; 17 of climbing China roses; and 16 of Rosa 
indica odorata. A strong recommendation to this catalogue, 
in our eyes, is, that it does not contain half the number of va- 
rieties that are to be found in the French, and in some of the 
English, nursery lists, but a careful selection of sorts which 
are perfectly distinct. very person intending to purchase 
roses should possess himself of this catalogue, which may be 
done through the post-office, as it is only a single folio sheet 
printed on three sides. 

The following very judicious observations on the culture of 
roses are placed at the end of the lists. They contain the 
essence of all that can be said on the subject : — 

‘“* The rose, perhaps, more than any other ornamental shrub, 
requires constant culture to make it bloom in perfection, unless 
in the most favourable rose soils, which, in my opinion, is a 
rich cool loam. Roses require to be removed, and to have 
their roots trimmed, every third year: when taken up, these 
roots will be found to have lost most of their fibres; but, naked 
as they are, if they are then trimmed, the branches thinned 
and shortened, and plenty of well-rotted manure mixed with 
the soil they are planted in, the plants will be quite renovated, 
and bloom as fine, and often finer, than young plants. ‘This 
treatment, perhaps, is most applicable to standard roses; 
with dwarfs the trouble is toomuch, unless with the choicest 


Lloyd's Treatise on Agriculture. 459 


sorts, as they are sold at such low prices, that it would be 
cheaper to make a new plantation. In very clayey cold 
soils, the finest compost possible for roses is well-rotted dung 
and common pit sand (not road sand), equal parts. When 
standards are removed, they ought to have their heads 
thinned, and shoots shortened early in spring. A mistaken 
notion, which I often find current, is, that they ought to 
“push,” i.e. begin to shoot, before the branches are short- 
ened: this has sealed the doom of very many standard roses. 
Ihave an idea that standard Chinaroses, of the most choice 
varieties, with stems from 3 to 4 feet, might be made highly 
ornamental summer plants ; they are too tender to endure the 
ordinary severity of our winters as standards, but, if taken up 
every autumn, put into large pots, and placed in a dry shed, 
they would remove into their summer quarters in the spring 
with perfect safety, and bloom much finer than if exposed 
during winter, and their shoots injured by the severity of the 
weather. The varieties of Osa indica odorata bloom exceed- 
ingly well in this manner, as do all the strong-growing va- 
rieties of China roses. osa Grevillzz and multiflora also 
form curious objects, and bloom very freely, when grown as 
standards. The hardy climbing roses, and several of the 
climbing China roses [marked / in the catalogue], form fine 
objects when trained “en pyramzde,” i.e. in the French man- 
ner of training pear trees; but when trained in this manner, 
as climbing roses do not form a stem strong enough to support 
themselves, the strong central shoots must be tied to iron or 
wooden stakes, and the side shoots from them shortened every 
season: in this manner, with proper culture, they will form 
pillars of roses, from 6 ft. to 10 ft. in height. — 7. R. jun.” 


Lloyd, Richard W., Esq.: A Practical Treatise on Agricul- 
ture; briefly pointing out certain Practices which should 
be adopted, and some which should be discontinued, with 
a view to the Improvement of Arable Land, &c. 8vo, pp. 52. 
London, 1833. 


The object of this tract is, to * supply the ignorant with a 
plain and simple insight into the principles of Practical Agri- 
culture, respecting which the great majority of farmers are 
entirely in the dark.” ‘The author seems to have adopted a 
very suitable mode of attaining his object; and, as his pam- 
phlet is circulated in Wales, both in Welsh and English, we 
trust it willdo much good. ‘The anticipated results would be 
greatly accelerated by such an exhibition at Chester, every 
winter, as that held at Stirling. (See p. 447.) We wish we 
could induce Messrs. Dickson, the eminent seedsmen of the 
former town, to take the hint. 


460 Literary Notices. 


Art. II. Literary Notices. 


THE Caledonian Gardener's Magazine, in quarterly 8vo 
Numbers, 3s. each, is projected at Edinburgh. According to 
the prospectus, “‘ most of the articles in English Gardener’s 
Magazines being adapted to a climate warmer than that which 
lies north of the Tweed, they are altogether unfit for Scottish 
practice: the Caledonian Magazine, therefore, will be confined 
exclusively to communications adapted to the climate of Scot- 
land.” 

The Young Gardener’s Monthly Magazine, in monthly 
Numbers, small 8vo, 6d. each, will appear in London in 
October next. It will embrace every department of Garden- 
ing, and will include Natural History, Cottage Economy, 
Agriculture, and Rural Architecture, as far as these are 
necessary for the instruction of gardeners, and are connected 
with life in the country. ‘The object of this work will be, less 
to include an extensive correspondence, than to describe the dif- 
ferent operations of gardening, and explain them scientifically. 

J. F. Royle, Esq. F.L.S. &c., late Superintendent of the 
East India Company’s botanic garden at Saharunpore, is pre- 
paring for publication Illustrations of the Botany and other 
branches of the Natural History of the Himalayan Mountains, 
and of the Flora of Cashmere. The coloured lithographed 

figures, exhibited as specimens, of this work indicate that it 
is to be produced in a superior style. 

The Prince de Salm-Dyck is about to publish Monographia 
Generum et Specierum Aloes et Mesembryanthemi Iconi- 
bus illustrata: A Monograph, illustrated by figures, of the 
Aloes and Mesembryanthemums. — This will be gladdening 
news to every botanical reader. The Prince de Salm-Dyck 
is well known in this country as a promoter of botany, and as 
having paid especial attention to the aloes and mesembry- 
anthemums, of which he cultivates an extensive collection, and 
has done so for many years. He has long been in a course of 
correspondence and interchange with A. H. Haworth, Esq., 
Chelsea, as the writings of this gentleman on aloes and 
mesembryanthemums, of which he also grows an extensive 
collection, attest; and it may be pretty safely asserted, that, 
among the botanists now in the world, none are so intimately 
acquainted with the plants spoken of as are Mr. Haworth and 
the Prince de Salm-Dyck. At length the prince is about to pub- 
lish the result of his experience on them, and the arrangements 
for the publication are committed to Arnz and Co. of Dussel- 
dorf; who give, in their prospectus, the following information 
on the terms and intentions: — The aloes will be the subject 
of one monograph, the mesembryanthemums of another. 


Literary Notices. 461 


Every species and every principal variety in each genus will 
be described, and represented by a figure drawn from nature. 
Every consideration has been employed to lessen the costliness 
of the work, so as to make it universally obtainable: its size 
such as will just suffice to exhibit the objects; the figures 
printed in black in one series of copies; and, in another, with 
one leaf and some of the petals coloured; and, in another set, 
at the expressed request of subscribers, wholly coloured. The 
two monographs will be published together in half-yearly 
numbers, and the publication will be commenced as soon as 
a sufficient number of subscribers has been received. Each 
number of the work on aloes will contain 24 figures, and its 
price, with the figures uncoloured, will be 10 francs; coloured, 
20 francs: and each number of the work on mesembry- 
anthemums will contain 36 figures; uncoloured, 15 francs ; 
coloured, 30 francs. The two works will give the description 
of about 550 species, and will be finished in about five years. 
Subscribers are requested to add their titles to their name 
and address. It is stated, from the author, that he will re- 
ceive any suggestions which subscribers may be disposed to 
communicate, either in relation to the text or to the figures. 
This modesty in a prince is very commendable. 

Mr. Hoge, Florist, Paddington, has just published 500 copies 

of the Supplement to his Practical Treatise on the Culture of 
the Tulip, Auricula, Ranunculus, Georgina or Dahlia, &c. 
The Supplement, it is stated, “ contains a clever and interest- 
ing article on the cultivation of tulips, contributed by the late 
William Clark, Esq., of Croydon.” The bill states that this 
work ‘is published:” had Mr. Hoge sent us a copy of it, 
we might have noticed its contents. It is remarkable for a 
“¢ Supplement” to an existing work on floriculture to be sold 
at seven shillings: this is the price of a good-sized volume. 
_ A popular Magazine on Architecture, Building, and Furnish- 
ing, and the arts and sciences connected therewith, conducted 
by J. C. Loudon, will appear in January next, and be con- 
tinued quarterly. The objects of this work are, to spread a taste 
for architectural improvement, and, at the same time, to serve 
as a perpetual supplement to our Encyclopedia of Cottage, 
Farm, and Villa Architecture and Furniture ; in the same way 
as the Gardener’s Magazine forms a perpetual supplement to 
our Encyclopedias of Gardening, Agriculture, and Plants. 
To attempt an architectural magazine, in these times, may be 
considered a bold experiment; however, we have received 
such assurances of support from the contributors to, and 
readers of, our Encyclopedia of Architecture, that we have no 
doubt of success. 


4.62 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. I. Domestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


A MeETROPOLITAN Society of Florists and Amateurs has been established, 
and held its first meeting at the Crown and Anchor Tavern on the 17th of 
June. The attendance was neither so good, nor were the articles so nume- 
rous, as we have no doubt they will be when this Society becomes better 
known. The queen is said to patronise this Society, and to have offered a 
piece of plate annually for the best show of tulips. i 

The Birmingham Botanical and Horticultural Society held their first 
public show, on June 19. and 20., at the rooms of the Society of Arts. 
A notice of the more remarkable objects shown will be given in our report 
of the horticultural shows. We shall here notice that upwards of 250 plants, 
in which there were 128 distinct species, were sent to grace the show, not 
to be exhibited for a prize, from the botanic garden at Edgbaston. 
“They,” in the words of the report, “ formed of themselves a splendid 
and highly interesting collection, and served to display to full advantage 
the skill and scientific culture of Mr. Cameron, the much-respected 
curator.” The report communicates, as well, the following interesting 
information : — “ No money prizes being offered at this show, a subscrip- 
tion was raised, chiefly among the members of the committee, for the 
purpose of presenting to those gardeners who distinguished themselves on 
the occasion some testimonial of approbation. Six gardeners were se- 
lected by the judges; and suitable presents, with inscriptions, are in 
course of preparation, and will be transmitted to them as soon as they are 
completed.” The names of the gardeners, we have been informed, are, — 

Mr. George Anderson, gardener to the Earl of Dartmouth. 

Mr. William Carpenter, gardener to James Taylor, Esq. 

Mr. Thomas Hetherington, gardener to W. H. Osborn, Esq. 

Mr. John Smith, gardener to Mrs. Woolley of Summerfield. 

Mr. John Webster, gardener to Mrs. Taylor of Moseley Hall. 

Mr. Thomas Williams, gardener to J. Wilmore, Esq., of Oldford Mills. 
They are to be presented with a teapot, sugar basin, and cream jug, suit- 
ably inscribed, as these are articles of domestic utility, likely to be brought 
forward when friends call and stop to breakfast or tea. So anxious, we 
have been informed, were the gentlemen to give some mark of appro- 
bation, that the greater part of the sum requisite to effect the above 
intention was collected almost as soon as the proposition was mentioned. 
— Cond. 

An admirable Lecture on Horticulture was delivered at the Ipswich Me- 
chanics’ Institution, on March 18. 1833, by Jr. Woollard. — He traced the 
progress of the science from the earliest ages to the present period; and, 
from the able manner in which he managed the subject, we hope he will be 
induced to resume it on some future occasion. In 1814, Mr. Woollard, 
as he stated in his lecture, established a Florists’ Society in this town; 
an example which was soon followed at Norwich, Diss, Colchester, Bury 
St. Edmunds, and other towns in this district. The two latter, however, 
have run before us by the establishment of botanic gardens, of which we 
are at present destitute. It is no creditable reflection, that in a town of 


Domestic Notices: — England. 463 


such importance, we have been so long without ; but we trust, that as this 
pursuit 1s now in almost universal esteem, we too, ere long, shall have an 
establishment of the kind. The lecture was extremely well attended, and 
appeared to afford much gratification. (Suffolk Chronicle, March 23. 1833.) 
[See p. 376.] 

The Primrose Hill Botanic Garden, noticed Vol. VIII. p. 470., seems 
to be making progress; a meeting of subscribers having been held at 
Gray’s Inn Coffee-house, July 18., at which a number of resolutions 
passed. Plans and estimates have been made out by W. B. Clarke, Esq., 
Architect, in order to give subscribers a general idea of what is intended. 
We sincerely wish the scheme success; but we must defer what we have 
to say on the subject till our next Number. 

Provincial Botanical and Horticultural Gardens. — At a meeting of the 
Bristol and Clifton Botanical and Horticultural Society, held at Bristol, 
June 25., it is stated that proposals were circulated for establishing a new 
society with a garden. The following paragraph on the subject is ex- 
tracted from the Bristol Gazette: —“ The principal novelty of the day 
was the circulation of a prospectus for a new society, to be called the 
Bath and West of England Botanical and Horticultural Society, to which 
several members of the Linnzean Society and of the London and other 
horticultural societies have offered their best assistance. The principal 
outline of the terms proposed is, that a sum sufficient for the formation of 
gardens, &c., shall be raised by shares of ten guineas each, and an annual 
subscription of two guineas ; and that holders of two or more shares shall 
receive from the gardens, under certain regulations, new plants, cuttings, 
seeds, &c. The authors judiciously remark, that, as the expenses attendant 
on the formation and subsequent permanency of the establishment must 
necessarily be great, nothing but the most extensive cooperation of per- 
sons of influence can authorise the attempt. We sincerely wish that this 
effort may be successful. It is lamentable that Liverpool, Manchester, 
Birmingham, Edinburgh, Glasgow, &c., should possess (and many of them 
have long possessed) botanic gardens, and that the distinguished cities of 
the West of England should be destitute of all similar establishments. Such 
a one has often been talked of for our own city, but hitherto with as fittle 
success as for Bath. We should rejoice to see a botanic garden flourishing 
at each of these cities ; but as prudence often dictates to adopt that which 
is most practicable instead of that which is most perfect, it well deserves 
consideration whether the lovers of botany and horticulture in each place 
ought not, in prudence, to unite their forces, and establish a botanic 
garden at an intermediate point, equally accessible to the residents of each. 
A favourable situation for such a garden presents itself at Bitton, where 
there is an extremely rich soil of warm dry alluvial gravel, a favourable 
southern aspect, a warm climate, and the important advantage that a gen- 
tleman resides there who already possesses on the spot as rich and numer- 
ous a collection of plants as, perhaps, any private individual can boast of, 
whose zeal and activity in horticultural and botanical pursuits are inde- 
fatigable, who has an extensive correspondence with foreign botanists, and 
who probably could be induced, upon adequate terms, to impart not only 
his numerous plants, but his invaluable aid and superintendence as the 
curator of the intended garden. Under his care the successful progress 
of the undertaking might be considered as secure. The choice of this 
situation, which is nearly equidistant from Bristol and from Bath, for the 
site of a garden, would doubtlessly induce many inhabitants of Bristol and 
its immediate vicinity to be contributory to such a plan, who may other- 
wise be restrained from it by the lingering hope that they may one day 
more satisfactorily employ their funds in founding a botanic garden in their 
own city. If, however, the predominance of subscribers resident in Bath 


464, Domestic Notices : —~ Lingland. 


and its immediate vicinity shall fix the site of the garden in that place, we 
shall nevertheless sincerely rejoice that enough patrons of botany can be 
found to carry the undertaking into execution; and shall hope that the 
inhabitants of Bristol will shortly afterwards imitate their liberality and 
love of science, by founding a like institution.” 

We cordially agree with this writer in ardently desiring the establish- 
ment of botanical and horticultural gardens, and even zoological gardens, 
combined with breathing zones, such as Mr. Slaney is now legislating for 
(see Vol. V. p. 686.); and we have no doubt that when the system of 
managing towns is entirely altered, and their inhabitants, and those of their 
suburbs for a certain distance round, are governed by a municipal repre- 
sentative system, such gardens and zones will be established in not only 
every town, but in every large village. In the mean time, however, we 
protest against the idea of establishing a garden between two towns, which 
must necessarily be at such a distance from both, that only those who 
keep carriages, or can afford to hire them, could go to it. The idea appears 
to us most preposterous; and we are astonished how it could be enter- 
tained for a moment by any liberal editor. There is some excuse for the 
garden of the Horticultural Society of London being at a distance from 
the metropolis, on account of the smoke, and of the difficulty of procuring 
a suitable extent of good soil: but who can doubt that, if it had been 
established in the Regent’s Park, for example, there would have been ten 
visiters for one that there is at present. The great object of a provincial 
botanical and horticultural garden is, not to try experiments or to intro- 
duce new articles into the country, but to make known what has been 
already introduced and approved of to the inhabitants of the given locality, 
and to all classes of them. How is this to be done, but by a garden so 
placed as that all ages and classes, and more especially women and children, 
may walk in it, and examine its contents? We know, from experience, 
that many who enter a garden at first merely with a view of taking ex- 
ercise, by seeing the various flowers, and fruits, and other products of the 
different seasons, gradually become imbued with a taste for gardening. 
The proprietors of two of the most beautiful and well-stored flower- 
gardens we know (that of Mr. T. in Lancashire, and Mr. W. in Scotland), 
had their taste for floriculture thus awakened. — Cond. 

A Botanic and Horticultural Garden is in contemplation in the neigh- 
bourhood of Sheffield. We understand there is some beautifully varied 
ground, well adapted for the purpose ; and we trust so wealthy a town will 
not be long before it adds to its suburbs so agreeable and useful a feature. 
We recommend the parties concerned to take warning from the present 
appearance of the Birmingham Botanic Garden, and at the same time not 
to forget what we have said of that at Chiswick; two fine situations, both 
completely bungled by the manner in which they are laid out. The true 
remedy for this, and other evils to which such institutions are subject, is 
publicity in every stage of the business, from the choosing of the ground 
to the formation of the plan, and its execution. 

A magnificent domical Conservatory is now erecting at Brighton, by sub- 
scription, under the direction of Mr. Phillips, the Author of Flora Do- 
mestica, and other works. We are informed that the ground plan is cir- 
cular, and about 150 ft. in diameter, and the summit of the dome above 
100 ft. in height. This, of course, will far exceed either the late conserva- 
tory at Britton Hall (now dispersed in sections over the country, forming 
various patchwork green-houses and vineries), Mr. Forrest’s houses at 
Syon, or the wonders of the Enchanted Valley at Alton Towers. 

A Notice of a destructive Hailstorm which occurred at Edgbaston on 
May 9. 1833.— Sir, The hailstorm about which you enquire occurred on 
the afternoon of May 9., and was of nearly half an hour’s duration. The 


Domestic Notices : — England. 465 


hail, or rather transparent ice, fell, of irregular forms, of from half an inch 
to an inch in diameter. The reofs of the conservatory, green-house, stove, 
propagating-house, frames, and the skylight of the dwelling-house had, 
upon an average, fully one half of the glass in them not only broken, but 
the greater portion battered completely in. The whele quantity broken 
was about 1500 square feet; a great proportion in a few minutes after the 
storm began. The hail storm was succeeded by torrents of rain, which, 
from the inequality of the ground, broke up the walks in several places, 
and removed a part of the soil in different parts of the garden. The 
storm was but partial, not reaching to the town. A similar one passed 
over the town six days afterwards, and broke some glass, but did not 
reach this garden, The general size of our panes is 64in. by 4in.: in the 
upper part of the dome of the conservatory they are smaller.* 

Species of Plants which withstood, unprotected, the Winter of 1832, in the 
Botanic Garden at Birmingham.— It may be interesting to inform you 
that the following plants stood out of doors last winter, without any 
covering, notwithstanding the open and exposed state of the garden : — 
Verbena radicans and chamedrifolia, Wachendoérfia paniculata, Petunia 
nyctaginiflora, Digitalis laciniata, Ornithogalum corymbdosum, Salvia fal- 
gens, Alstroeméria acutifolia, Lophospérmum erubéscens; O’xalis Bowic:, 
tetraphylla, and violacea; Fuchsia thymifolia, Malva angustifolia, Sym- 
phoria mentana, Piptanthus nipalénsis, AZthionéma membraniceum. The 
last three are, however, quite as hardy as the most common garden shrubs. 

Hunnemannia fumariefolia. — There are seedling plants coming up strong 
of Hunnemannia fumarizefolia where a plant stood last year, which would 
indicate that the seeds of this rare plant ought to be sown in autumn, and 
be grown as an annual; whereas, if the seeds be not sown until spring, 
few of them vegetate that season. 

O’ralis floribimda Lehm. is finer than those protected in the houses. 1 
am, Sir, yours, &c., — David Cameron. Botanic Garden, Edgbaston, Bir- 
mingham, June 16. 1833. 

A whiteflowered Schizanthus.— Mr. Myles Priest, nurseryman, Reading, 
has raised a white-flowered Schizanthus, of which he, on June 24., sent us 
a coloured drawing. The branch depicted is an elegant object: the 
corollas are wholly white, except a pleasing and contrasting yellow spot at 
the base of the upper segment of each. The branch drawn exhibits the 
airy graceful character of S. pinnatus, of which species the plant may be a 
white-flowered variety. Mr. Priest, in his note, has thus spoken of it : — 
“« T believe it to be an entirely new and distinct variety. It grows about 
24 ft. high, from a single bottom stem, and has about twenty-four branches, 
or side-stems, each producing from twenty to thirty flowers: hence the 
plant had upwards of 600 flowers open at one time. It continues flower- 
ing for upwards of three months. It has, indeed, a very beautiful appear- 
ance, and cannot fail to be much admired. I purpose offering the young 
plants for sale.— JZ. Priest. Reading, June 24. 1833. 


* Hail Storm and Hurricane at Lancaster.—In my last [dated May 4. 
1833], I gave an account of the destructive hail storm which took place at 
Lancaster in April. [This account we have published in the Magazine of 
Natural History, vol. vi. p.368.] We have since had a most dreadful hurri- 
cane, which has cut and destroyed the vegetation. Jt is rather remarkable 
that we should have it on the same day that you had it in London. A 
consequence of it here has been several shipwrecks on our coast, and 
several lives lost, both of the crews and of spirited individuals who 
endeavoured to render assistance to the ships in distress. — MZ, Saut. 
Lancaster, June 17. 1833. 


Vou. IX. — No. 45, HH 


466 


Domestic Notices 


: — Lingland. 


A Plan of anarched Frame, to 
be made of Cast Iron, useful for 
bestriding Walks, and for sustain- 
ing Roses, Georginas, and other 
Plants to be trained over it. — 
Explanation. Fig. 115. a a, the 
uprights, which are 12 in. broad 
by a quarter of an inch thick 
6, the cross bars; c, the form 
of the cross bars: they are 
about half an inch thick in the 
middle, and a quarter of an inch 
thick at each end; so that they 
will average about three eighths 
of an inch in diameter. - 

Fig. 116. shows that the up- 
rights may be single; but they 
will be stronger if constructed 
as in fig. 115. The frame is 
cast in three pieces, the two 
uprights and top; and as there 
is a groove on the upper end 
of each upright to receive one 
end of the top piece, the frame, 
when brought from the furnace, 
will require nothing to be done 
to it except setting up, that is, 


putting together, and soldering the hese of the uprights into stones. 


Calls at the London Nurseries. 467 


This frame may be produced at little expense. That the reader may 
compute the cost of it in his own neighbourhood, I attach tables of the 
weight of iron, as cast flat or cast round, required, according to the 
dimensions chosen for the frame : — 


Length and weight of flat iron, 4in.| Length and weight of round iron, 
thick, and 12 in. wide. Zin, thick. 

Ibs. ft. Ibs. ft. Ibs. Ibs. ft. Ibs. ft. Ibs. 
0:93} 7 651)13 12:09 0°360 7 257 | 13. 478 
186) 8 744) 14 13.02 0°736 8 2:94) 14 5:15 
279| 9 837)|15 13°95 Il 9 3°31) 15 5:52 
3772/10 93 |16 14°88 1-47 10 368} 16 5:89 
4°65) 11 10°23)17 15°81 1:84 ll 4:04 | 17 6:25 
558 )12 11°16 2°2 12 4-41 
— M. Saul. Sulyard Street, Lancaster, June 17. 1833. 


One wworesr 
Ook wnorer 


Art. II. Calls at the London Nurseries, and other Suburban 
Gardens. 


THE Hackney Botanic Garden, Messrs. Loddiges, June 21.— The first 
thing which struck us, on our present visit to this garden, was the remark- 
ably fine bloom of the ixias, and other Cape Jridez, in the open border in 
front of the palm stoves. This border, which is formed of heath mould 
and sand, is about 18 im. broad, and of the same depth. The bulbs were 
planted in a row, within a few inches of the front wall, upwards of ten 
years ago; during the whole of that period they have received little or no 
protection in winter, and they have bloomed most luxuriantly every May, 
June, and July. The plants have multiplied to such an extent that the 
whole border is now covered with them; and numbers have come up 
from self-sown seeds, among which are some new varieties. Altogether, 
this border, covered with bloom as it now is, is the finest thing of the kind 
that we have ever seen. 

The first hot-house we entered is chiefly devoted to orchideous 
epiphytes; a number of which are tied on pieces of the stems or 
branches of trees with the bark on (about two or three inches in diameter 
and six or eight inches long), and suspended from the roof by wires. 
A small tuft of moss is first put on the upper side of the piece of wood; 
on this the plant is placed, a little green moss is then put over the roots, 
and the whole is tied firmly down with copper wire, so fine as hardly to 
be visible from below. The plants in this situation thrive most vigor- 
ously, sending their roots from under the moss down on each side, closely 
embracing the piece of wood, and each plant seeming as though it were 
riding astride on its little barrel-like wooden horse. This mode of grow- 
ing epiphytes is, at once, very successful and very curious. The pitcher 
plant (Wepénthes) andthe Sarracenia in this stove are growmg and 
blooming freely. In the palm-house every thing is in its usual luxuriance ; 
the ferns are in most vigorous growth, and the epiphytes flowering 
beautifully. Oncidium divaricatum and flexudsum, and Calanthe veratri- 
folia, are eminently conspicuous. There is a beautiful new lycopodium 
(L. circinatum), the thick-set branches of which we can only compare to 
fine chenille work in embroidery. A shower was let off, to show the 
effect to a stranger who accompanied us. We mention this to remind our 
readers of what has been done in this way, and what may be done again 
in lofty conservatories. The epiphytes which required props were 
elegantly supported by small twigs of bamboo, which are inconspicuous, 

HH 2 


468 Calls at the London Nurseries, 


found to be durable, and therefore very appropriate. The names of 
many of the plants were repainted with very thick black oil paint, on 
Wright’s porcelain tallies; thin black paint will not do, the oil separating 
from it, and discolouring the whole surface of the tally): this mode has a 
much better effect than writing with black-lead pencil, which is neither so 
_ clear nor so durable, unless, indeed, it be varnished. In the camellia- 
house (which is a complete wood of this shrub, so much so that black- 
birds have repeatedly built their nests and reared their young in it), a 
Wistaria Consequana runs along the roof in two horizontal lines, and has 
now its second crop of flowers. We were glad to find Mr. George 
Loddiges of opinion that this plant (now sold by retail at from 1s. 6d. to 
3s. each, according to size) would soon be on every cottage front in the 
kingdom —a result which, our readers are aware, we have been desirous 
to bring about ever since this plant was introduced. Many of the heats 
and New Holland plants were beautifully in flower. 

The arboretum looks better this season than it has ever done since it 
was planted. Even the roses have not a leaf or a flower injured by 
insects, and the other plants have escaped equally well. The more lofty 
trees suffered from the late high winds, but not materially. We walked 
round the two outer spirals of this coil of trees and shrubs; viz. from 
Acer to Quércus. There is no garden scene about London so interesting 
to us as this arboretum, and we only wish we could induce the planters of 
parks, shrubberies, and pleasure-grounds deliberately to examine it. To 
us it is perfectly astonishing that thinking men among gardeners, who 
know the contents of these eight acres just as well as we do, should 
continue to plant the commonplace and monotonous mixtures in 
shrubberies which they now do. We wish the ladies of gentlemen’s 
families would visit this arboretum. We should like to see mothers who 
have a taste for plants take up the subject; for with mothers, we are 
persuaded, must commence all great and lasting improvements, not only 
m human conduct, but m matters of taste. Let the panorama of Niagara, 
now exhibiting in London, be examined, and then let those who set any 
value on the rich colours of the trees constituting the woods in the back- 
ground of that magnificent picture say whether they would not desire to 
have such trees in their parks and pleasure-grounds. These trees consist 
of oaks, birches, liquidambars, acers, and a few others; and all of them 
may be seen named in Messrs. Loddiges’s arboretum, and young plants of 
them may be purchased there, or in other nurseries. The acers, which 
furnish the yellows in the American forests, are in great luxuriance at 
Messrs. Loddiges’s. The birches, which furnish the reds, yellows, and 
browns, are also very fine. Nearly twenty new species or varieties have 
been added to Crate‘gus; now forming, in all, between 70 and 80 sorts. 
What a treasure to those who are capable of estimating the opportunity 
of procuring such a collection! But how few are there who have this 
capability, and who have, at the same time, sufficient ground to allow the 
different sorts to attain their full size, and to display their separate 
natures! Again we say, that the taste must be originated in youth; but, 
when once called into action, what a paradise this island will become, 
displaying, as it will do, all the trees and shrubs in the world whieh will 
grow in temperate climates. The time is just commencing for the esta- 
blishment of public parks, and gardens adjoining towns, in which the deau 
idéal of this description of scenery will be realised, at the expense of all, 
and for the enjoyment of all. The whole of the Regent’s Park would be 
required to plant one of each of the species and varieties contained in 
Messrs. Loddiges’s arboretum, at proper distances, varied by suitable 
glades ; Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens would form another scene 
for a similar plantation; and a third might be formed of Greenwich Park. 


and other Suburban Gardens. 469 


These scenes of rural enjoyment, independently of their beauty to general 
observers, might thus be made schools of botany and gardening, and serve 
to encourage a taste for both subjects in the rising generation. 

It has always struck us as remarkable that the genus Pinus should 
thrive so well as it does amidst the smoke of Hackney. On this occasion 
we could not help noticing the luxuriant growth of the Pinus Laricio, 
which is more rapid than that of the Scotch pme: its timber, as we 
noticed in Vol. I. p. 79., is also said to be greatly superior. We are 
very desirous of directing the attention of planters to this most valuable 
tree, of which there is now a tolerable stock in the London nurseries, 
and which stock will, of course, increase with the demand. We only 
wish our readers would compare the height and annual shoots, both as 
to thickness and length, of this specimen in the Hackney Garden, with 
those of the Pinus sylvéstris there. Among the new additions to the 
genus Pinus, in Messrs. Loddiges’s collection, is one of the finest plants 
of Pinus Lambertzana in the country. 

Clapton Nursery, H. Lowe and Co., June 21.— As usual, there is 
a very fine young stock of the rarest and most valuable Cape and 
Australian plants, as well as a number from South America, sent home by 
Mr. Anderson, who was, till lately, Mr. Lowe’s collector, when in that 
country. Mr. Anderson is now become a resident at Sydney, as a 
botanical agent, and well merits employment. Mr. Lowe is always 
remarkably successful in striking heaths: this year, he has been singularly 
so in inarching the present year’s wood of camellias on the last year’s 
wood of the stock. The operation is performed when the lower part of 
the young wood has attained a slight degree of firmness, and the pomt of 
the shoot is just developed, and no more. By these means, the whole of 
the returning sap is insured to the cicatrising of the wound, and to the 
promotion of the union of the scion with the stock. This takes place in 
the short space of three weeks after inarching, and in three more weeks 
the separation from the parent plant may take place. The advantages of 
the plan, Mr. Lowe says, are two: first, a whole year is gained in pro- 
ducing plants ; and, secondly, there is greater certainty of success in the 
operation. In a small stove, facing the east, the orchideous epiphytes are 
planted among moss and brick rubbish, on a shelf against the back wall, 
close under the glass. They are thriving well; they are in the hottest 
part of the house, which, being low, and having in it several cisterns with 
water plants, is sure to have the air always moist. There is a beautiful 
new broad-leaved water plant here, which has not yet had a specific name, 
or been given out. It belongs to the genus Leptanthus, nat. ord. Pontedeéree. 
The flower bears a close general resemblance to Eschsch6ltza, and the leaves 
to those of Nymphee'a or Villarsia. It promises to be a plant of the very 
easiest culture, and will be a valuable addition to our stove aquatics. 
Along the midrib of the back of the leaf of this plant is an air vessel for 
keeping it floating on the surface. In the green-house there are a number 
of plants of Nierembérgia gracilis in flower. Mr. Lowe informs us that 
this species will stand the open air during summer as well as N. pheenicea 
and Petunia nyctaginiflora (two plants which ought to be in every 
garden, whether large or small); it will, therefore, be a great addition to 
the flower-garden. In a cold pit, Mahonia repens has thrown out under- 
ground stolones, three feet in length, which have not yet emitted a single 
fibrous root. Mr. Lowe has a good stock of new and rare species 
of Bérberis, some of which have not yet received specific names. At the 
foot of a wall there is a magnificent Alstreemeéria, quite new, which 
promises to equal, if not to surpass, the finest species in cultivation; it 
has not yet received a specific name. Against the same wall is a plant of 
the new Solanum crispum, introduced by Mr. Lowe, the stem of which 

HH 3 


\ 


470 Calls at the London Nurseries, 


is an inch in diameter, and which promises to become quite a tree. 
Mr. Lowe has a considerable stock of that splendid plant, Lobelia Tupa. 
He has also a good collection of hybrid Gladioli, and a new Lathyrus, 
which resembles JZ. califérnicus. A very rare and high-prized Lilium, 
purchased from M. Makoy of Liege, and somewhat in the style of L. longi- 
florum, is just coming into flower. Among the alpines, there is a good 
stock of the Primula cortusdvdes, a plant much in demand in spring. The 
same may be said of O’xalis crenata, which sold better last year than 
almost any plant Mr. Lowe had. In 1829, we gave a packet of the seeds 
of Wistaria Consequana, which we brought from Carlsruhe, to this 
nursery, from which many plants have been raised, and there are a number 
still on hand. It is evidently the true Consequana, though this was 
doubted by some when we brought the seeds over. The price of this 
plant is now reduced to 1s. 6d. to the trade. There is a large stock of 
Ribes sanguineum, which sells to the trade at 5/. per hundred. If it is 
not, therefore, soon as common as the black currant, it must be from 
want of knowledge, or want of taste. There is no doubt but that Ribes 
speciosum, which cannot now be purchased for money, will soon become 
equally common, and the same as to a new species only just sent home 
by Mr. Douglas to the Society’s Garden. Mr. Lowe has one vigorous 
plant of #. speciosum, which he is propagating as fast as nature and art 
will permit. This species being an evergreen, it does not propagate 
readily by cuttings taken off in spring; but will no doubt succeed well by 
autumnal cuttings, treated like those of the common laurel; or, what we 
should prefer, by cuttings of the young wood during summer, planted in 
sand under a bell glass. Mr. Lowe and other nurserymen are now pro- 
pagating it chiefly by layers. Among the pans of American seedlings we 
noticed one filled with Gaulthéria Shdallon, from seeds ripened in the 
Glasgow Botanic Garden. Three parallel ranges of pits here have been 
heated by hot water from one boiler, by Mr. Kewley. The work is 
‘admirably executed, in the siphon manner, and it cost so moderate a sum, 
and requires so little fuel and labour, that Mr. Lowe considers that he 
saved the whole expense in one season. These pits were before heated 
by dung; the prime cost of which amounted to nearly 40/. per annum, 
independently of the expense of wheeling it in, putting it in place, turning, 
stirring up, &c., and taking out when done with; add also that at a certain 
season every spring, when the occupiers of the numerous villas in the 
neighbourhood are making up their cucumber beds, not a load is to be got 
under double or treble the ordinary price, and sometimes not for any 
price, and thus a great risk is incurred of checking cuttings or seedlings 
at the time when a trifling check might destroy them. The heat from the 
hot water is found to be, in all respects, as congenial to young plants as 
that of the dung; and, therefore, the substituting | this mode of heating for 
dung, in many cases, is well deserving of imitation both by nurserymen 
and private gentlemen. Mr. Kewley’s apparatus is most scientifically 
arranged ; all the three ranges of pipes are exhausted by one air-pump, 
communicating with them by small leaden pipes, half an inch in exterior 
diameter. A great part of the business of this nursery is with the foreign 
trade, for which Mr. Lowe has the great advantage of a foreman who has 
been some time in a French nursery, and who not only speaks French, 
but gardeners’ French. Mr. Lowe had, the morning we were with him, 

just received a letter from Mr. Anderson, at Sydney, stating that he had 
shipped a number of boxes of seeds for him, and an extensive collection 
of dried specimens, consigned to Mr. Hunneman, the well-known botanical 
agent, for sale. Mr. Anderson also onnoned the safe arrival of Mr. 

Richard Cunningham, and the prosperous state of a nursery ee esta- 
blished at Sydney. 


and other Suburban Gardens. 471 


_ The Hammersmith Nursery, Messrs. Lee, June 19.— The show of roses 
here is, as usual, very fine. There is a collection of 30 or 40 sorts of 
China roses, standards of exquisite beauty. So comprehensive have the 
variations of this species, or sub-species, now become, that they not only 
include yellows, and cream-coloured and scented sorts, but moss roses, 
large and small varieties, scented and unscented, white and red. The 
carnation-striped and the tricolour roses have not flowered so well as 
they sometimes do, but sufficiently so to show the distinctness of these 
varieties. Among the other roses the crimson perpetual made the most 
handsome appearance; and it is indeed one of the very best of roses, 
flowering from June till it is checked by the frost. Among the shrubs, 
Halimodéndron argénteum budded standard high, upon a laburnum, is 
profusely covered with flowers, forming a pendent robe of purple and 
silver. It is astonishing that this tree, and the standard purple cytisus, 
are not more common on lawns. The silvery glistering foliage of the 
Halimodéndron is alone sufficient to render it highly valuable. The 
numerous large specimens of Magnolia purpurea, noticed in our last 
(p. 343.) as being profusely covered with bloom, still present a number 
of flowers, as do those of M. glatca and M. tripétala. M. conspicua was 
magnificent in April. In speaking of magnolias, we may add, that M. 
macrophylla is now in bloom, both at the Duke of Devonshire’s, at 
Chiswick, and at Mr. Gray’s at Harringgay; but we shall not be able to 
see these specimens in time to give a notice of them in this Number. The 
chimney of one of the green-houses, in the Hammersmith Nursery, is so 
brilliantly clothed with golden ivy, that people looking at it from the 
public road generally take it for some creeper profusely covered with rich 
yellow blossoms. We wish some gardener would insert some buds of 
this and other varieties in the common giant ivy, by way of experiment. 
There is an avenue here of the ancient genus Robinia, including the 
genera separated from it, viz. Caragdna, Halimodéndron, &c., budded 
standard high, on laburnums, which well deserves the examination of the 
purchasers of rare, singular, and most beautiful shrubs for lawns. The 
azaleas and rhododendrons bloomed with great luxuriance, and the 
andromedas are now very fine. A. dealbata, one of the most beautiful of 
them, is profusely covered with its powdered leaves and white globular 
blossoms. In the hedgerow next the road are some specimens of orna- 
mental trees; one of them, a broad-leaved weeping elm, is of so singular 
and marked a character, that we intend, some time or other, to give a 
figure of it. It would be an admirable tree for a lawn. There is a 
remarkably complete collection of pansies. In the conservatory, the 
plants (which were being put into the soil, by Mr. Kennedy, on the day, 
in April, 1804, on which we first visited this nursery) are, as usual, 
vigorous. The Metrosidéros, with its bright scarlet bottle-brush-like 
blossoms, is now particularly conspicuous. Against the wall in the 
vinery, a Bryonia quinquefolia, a free-growing creeper with showy yellow 
flowers, not very common, had a good effect. We were happy to see a 
good stock of those favourite plants of ours, O’robus varius and Jeffer- 
sonia diphylla, in the beds of herbaceous plants. 

Garden of the Horticultural Society.— We have made several visits to 
this garden in the course of the months of May and June. On the whole, 
it looks exceedingly well this season, though some things in it have 
suffered considerably from drought. It is kept in remarkably good order, 
considering that there is really not a sufficiency of hands, by half a dozen 
at least, for so many acres. In consequence of this want of strength, a 
part of the kitchen-garden is necessarily left uncropped, which may be 
considered a loss to the public, because, if there were, at all seasons, 
standing examples of the best varieties of culinary vegetables, well grown, 

HH 4 


472 Calls at the London Nurseries, 


in this garden, it would certainly tend to create a taste for them. As the 
Society is rapidly getting rid of its debt, we hope many years will not 
elapse before this part of the duties of the establishment be restored. 
The trees in the arboretum are thriving, many of them have now attained 
a considerable size; so much so, indeed, that in most of the clumps they 
are crowding each other, so that the characteristic forms of the indi- 
vidual species will soon be lost. We intend, before this is the case (the 
permission of the council, of course, being first obtained), to have 
portraits of a good many of them taken, and to draw up an account of 
each species, stating its height, age, the length of shoot which it makes 
each season, the time of foliation, the colour of the buds and spray in 
spring, and the defoliation, and colour of the leaves in autumn. This, 
with a number of other particulars of a popular nature, we intend to 
prepare, so as to be able to give to general readers, and especially to 
architects and lady gardeners, a useful knowledge of 500 or 600 of the 
trees purchasable in British nurseries. We intend to publish this, along 
with engraved portraits of the trees, all drawn to one scale, so as to show 
the comparative heights at the same age, in our forthcoming Encyclopedia 
of Landscape-Gardening and Garden Architecture. We had portraits of 
all the trees in Messrs. Loddiges’s arboretum taken in 1831, and a 
number of observations made on the trees in the arboretum at Kew and 
other places in the same year, which we intended for an Arboretum 
Britannicum (see Vol. VI. p. 718.) : we have, however, entirely given up 
that work, finding that Dr. Lindley has long had a similar one in con- 
templation ; and we mean to confine ourselves, as to what we say of trees 
in the Hncyclopedia of Landscape-Gardening, to the consideration of their 
effect in landscape, and their value as timber, and for shade and shelter. 
In short, we shall chiefly treat on what may be termed the popular 
qualities and economical relations of trees and shrubs. We cannot help 
repeating our expression of regret that the trees and shrubs in the 
Chiswiek arboretum were not distributed round the circumference of the 
entire garden, in which case they might have grown for many years 
without touching each other, and a really useful knowledge of their forms, 
colours, and effect in landscape, might thus have been obtained by the 
public. Had the Society taken our advice, and begun to alter the garden 
according to our plan, or any other calculated to display these trees to 
advantage; even if they had only executed a small fractional part of it 
every year, the landscape-gardener would have had confidence in the 
final result. He would have visited the garden, season after season, 
delighted at seeing the trees gradually developing their shapes and 
characters; while the public in general would have been equally delighted 
at always finding something new going on; whereas, now, there is no 
thinking gardener who cannot foresee that in two or three years this 
arboretum will become nearly useless for every purpose of the garden 
artist. 

In the orchard there is a great show of fruit on the apple trees, a 
tolerable crop of pears, plums, and peaches, but scarcely any apricots. 
This orchard, with the use that is making of it by Mr. Thompson, is now, 
indeed, the only truly valuable part of the garden, because it comprises 
such an assemblage of fruit trees as exists nowhere else in the world. 

We mentioned (p. 234.) that a small house had been erected for 
orchideous epiphytes. The plants in this house have been lately so much 
infested by woodlice, that they have been obliged to be entirely removed, 
with all the material on which they were planted, in order to get the 
house thoroughly cleaned. The woodlouse seems a very simple insect 
to occasion so much trouble; but, we believe, it will be found one of the 
most difficult of all insects to eradicate. In hot-beds and common hot- 


and other Suburban Gardens.- 4.73 


houses it may be kept under by toads; but in a house full of chinks, 
crannies, and crevices, teads cannot get at it. Immersion in water, for 
several hours, we know, from experience, will not kill this insect ; neither 
will watering it with lime water injure it. Strong tobacco water will 
prove poisonous; but this is not easy of application. The only effectual 
mode of destruction appears to be the application of some deleterious gas, 
that is heavier than atmospheric air; so that, after all, the clearing out of 
the house, though it may seem troublesome at first, is perhaps the shortest 
method of proceeding. 

In the council-room we observed a very good apparatus for pressing 
specimens, which may serve, at the same time, as a seat, and is therefore, 
we think, a very fitting article of furniture for a gardener’s lodge. F2g. 117. 


117 


is a perspective view of this press, reversed, the part intended for sitting 
on being placed on the ground, in order to admit of putting in or taking 
out the specimens. Jg. 118. is a cross section, in which a is the board, 
which in the present position forms the bottom, and when the press is 
used as a seat, forms the top; 6 is a cushion, of any soft material, such as 
numerous folds of flannel, of uniform thickness, between which and the bot- 
tom board are placed the specimens to be pressed, in sheets of coarse brown, 
whitybrown, or blotting paper, according to circumstances ; c is the board 
placed above the cushion to receive the pressure of the blocks (d) and wedges 
(e); fisa bar, firmly mortised into two end pieces (g g in fig. 117.), to con- 
fine the wedges. The same letters are applied to the same parts in both figures; 
from the first of which, indeed, without further description, any carpenter 
will understand how to construct such a press. The length and breadth 
should be such as to contain a sheet of paper of the largest size ; and the 
depth should be that fitted for a stool, say about 
18in. The specimens, when gathered, are put 
between sheets of dry paper, pressed for a few 
hours, and then the sheets are taken out, and 
laid singly on a dry floor or on a table, or in the 
open air in the sun, and, after an hour or two’s ex- 
posure, put in again; this practice being found to 
give them a certain degree of toughness. When 
specimens are to be attached by gum, toughness 
is less an object, and they may therefore be dried 
off at once between sheets of paper made very 
hot; by heating them in an oven, or before the 
fire, taking the papers once or twice out of the 
press, during the process of drying, and reheating 
them. We also observed a species of hoe, sent 
from Jersey ( fig. 119.), which seemed to us better 
calculated for scraping the moss off trees than 
for hoeing soils. 


474: Calls at the London Nurseries, 


Mr. Weltje’s Collection of Pelargoniums, which we saw early in June, 
was very splendid. Twenty-three new seedlings of great beauty have 
bloomed this season for the first time, and will be sent out, as the phrase 
is, under fashionable or celebrated names. Mr. Weltje, by devoting him- 
self almost entirely to the genus Pelargonium, has raised himself to a 
conspicuous place in the floricultural world as an amateur florist. 

The Exotic Nursery, King’s Road, July 13.— We never saw this nur- 
sery in such beautiful order, and all the plants in it, of every kind, looking 
so well as at present. The number of articles in flower in the green- 
houses and stoves, and among the green-house plants set out in the open 
air, is very considerable. An abundant second crop of blossoms is now 
coming out on the Wistaria in the grand dome. Among the blue flowers 
of the green-house, those of Sdllya are now most conspicuous. Francoa 
appendiculata is curious, and at the same time beautiful. A new prickly- 
leaved Solanum, raised from seed sent over by Mr. Cuming, is also in 
flower, and is very showy. The plants in the stoves, particularly the 
epiphytes and aquatics, are in extraordinary vigour; but we pass over 
these, and a thousand articles of interest, to notice the introduction of 
some new Chinese azaleas, to see which was the main object of our 
present call. The following notice of these long wished for plants is by 
Mr. Scott : — 

“ The Chinese Azaleas lately purchased by Mr. Knight from Mr. M‘Gi- 
ligan, of the E. I. C. ship Orwell, are as follows : — 

“ Of the variegated azaleas, nine plants were shipped at Canton, two of 
which are now alive in England. Of the double red azalea, six plants 
were shipped, and one plant is now alive in England. Of the red 
azalea, lighter colour, four were shipped, and two survived the voyage in 
good health. Of the large-flowered azalea, six plants were shipped, and 
two are now in health. A yellow azalea, not the old A. sinénsis (at least 
it looks very different), one plant survived the voyage, and is now in 
health. 

“ A Juniperus, some varieties of Chrysanthemum, Enkianthus, Neliéim- 
dium, Renanthéra, and a few other Chinese plants, are all that arrived of 
those belonging to Mr. M‘Gilligan; those shipped by the captain, &c., all 
died. Great care and attention must have been bestowed upon these 
plants during the voyage. Mr. M‘Gilligan says they suffered more, after 
reaching the British coast, than during the whole voyage. When I saw 
them, on board the Orwell, they looked like plants injured by spring 
frosts. 

~© The Horticultural Society, you are aware, have long been anxious to 
get the variegated and other rare azaleas from China, but never succeeded 
in bringing home a living plant ; and Mr. Reeves says he has shipped at 
least 500 plants, not one of which ever reached England in a living state. 
I have not seen the flowers of any of the above varieties, except one like 
A. pheenicea, and of the variegated variety of this Mr. M‘Gilligan gave 
us some beautiful flowers, which had been gathered during the voyage ; 
one flower, just taken from the plant, was in a glass of water, in good pre- 
servation. The colour of this variety varies in the ground from white to 
pale purple; in some of the lighter-coloured flowers the upper petals, 
which are nearly white, are beautifully pencilled with dark purple; the 
other parts of the flower are variegated with pink, and sometimes striped 
like a carnation. There are some of the flowers darker and more varie- 
gated than others, but they are all very delicate and beautiful ; the flowers 
are of the size of the old A. indica. The plant has a smaller leaf and 
dwarfer habit than any other variety I know: perhaps its station is 
between A. indica and the old scarlet A. indica. 

“ These plants were growing in (Chinese) flat pots in a very strong clay 


‘and other Suburban Gardens. 475 


for fine alluvial] soil without any mixture; they had grown long in this 
soil in good health. The old plants are now in good health, and a number 
of smaller ones are potted off, and doing well; we therefore hope to pre- 
serve them through the winter, and by another season to do some good 
with them. Mr. Reeves says the variegated sort is more delicate than the 
old varieties of Azalea indica. 

“Mr. M‘Gilligan (I know not if I spell his name rightly) has the entire 
merit of preserving these plants alive, and presenting them to the English 
gardens. He is purser to the Orwell, is a native of Banffshire, and is pas- 
sionately fond of plants. Although the officers of this ship were partners 
in a small shipment of azaleas, their plants all died before reaching Eng- 
land, with the exception of one which lived a few days at Mr. Knight’s, 
but died, as did also four of Mr. M‘Gilligan’s, in a very short time. — 
A, Scott. Exotic Nursery, July 13. 1833.” 

The floricultural world is much indebted to Mr. M‘Gilligan, and we hope 
some botanist will perpetuate his name by applying it to some plant, 
either generically or specifically. 

The Fulham Nursery.— Messrs. Whitley and Co. cultivate upwards of 
ninety hardy kinds (varieties and species) of Azalea, and most of these 
blossomed freely and finely with them this season. The varieties differ, 
in the period of opening their buds, sufficiently to produce a welcome 
succession of these exquisitely elegant and beautiful flowers, whose 
charms are the more observable from the leaves being but partially ex- 
’ panded at the time the blossoms are displayed, from the beginning of May 
to July. Many species of the pine and fir tribe are grown in this nursery. 
Mr. Whitley conceives that, amidst the regard which the species of this 
tribe have of late received from amateur planters, Pinus Cémbra, the 
Siberian pine, is not estimated in proportion to the beauty of its habits 
of growth, and to the merits of its timber: on the latter quality, however, 
we are at present but partially informed. We agree with Mr. Whitley in 
deeming the Pinus Cémbra, or aphernousli as it is called (we know not 
the meaning), a tree of great beauty; and add, from the private letter of a 
gentleman distinguished for his love of the beauties of nature, the following 
words in its praise: —“ I wish, if you are a lover of trees, as Iam most 
enthusiastically, you could see my trees of the aphernousli. I have three 
upwards of 50 ft. high, in perfect health, and without a dead twig. .. . 
The tree is quite conic. It has some curious properties, such as closing 
up densely before snow, so as to prevent the weight breaking it.” —J. F. 
M.D. Westfelton, near Shrewsbury, Dec. 9. 1832. Another pine which 
we ardently desire to see in extended cultivation is the Pinus Laricio, first 
brought into notice by Mr. Neill, in his Horticultural Tour in 1819, and 
recommended by us in the present and in former volumes. — Cond. 

At Colvill’s Nursery, at which we had not time to call, we observed 
(July 15.), in passing, Yiicca gloridsa, or some species allied, magnifi- 
cently in blossom; and plants of Y. filamentosa, and a kindred species 
or two, are in flower beside it. The tip of the flowering scape of Y. glori- 
osa must be 7 ft. or 8 ft. from the ground: we have never seen so fine a 
specimen. 

Dennis and Co.’s Nursery, Grosvenor Row, Chelsea.— We had, on 
July 15., the pleasure to observe many objects which interested us; and, 
among the plants, the following deserve mention : — Thalia dealbata and 
Caléphanes (Ruéllia) oblongifolia were flowering in a cool damp green- 
house. Of Céreus speciosissimus, numerous plants placed in the open 
air were displaying many fine blossoms. The ripe fruit of this and other 
species of Céreus is most deliciously fragrant, as Mr. Dennis a good while 
ago made known to us. Fachsia globosa in the green-houses was most 
beautiful; quite small plants of it were laden with flowers. A new and 


476 Calls at the London Nurseries, 


interesting kind of Fuchsia, as we guess, some variety of F. gracilis, was 
abundant in blossoms. Its petals, in many of the flowers, become un- 
rolled and stand separate, and so contrast more livelily and airily with the 
crimson sepals: this character, added to the free graceful habit of the 
plant, renders the kind a very pleasing one. Among the species imported 
here by Mr. Gordon, one is presumed to be a species of the very rare and 
interesting labiate genus Gardoquia: Mr. Dennis’s plants of it have not 
yet flowered. The pelargoniums have passed the zenith of their beauty, 
but plants in blossom, of three of the choicer varieties, were shown to 
us; namely, habranthum, olympicum, and Lord Ravensworth. Pelar- 
gonium habranthum has a very large blush or rose flower, with a 
large dark spot in each of the upper petals; it grows and flowers freely : 
plants of it, according to their size, are priced at 21s. to 10s. 6d. each. 
P. ol¥mpicum has rich, very dark upper petals (the most so of the kinds 
in this mode), and its lower petals each marked with a spot; it flowers 
very freely, price 10s. 6d. to 5s. Lord Ravensworth is of the type shown 
in P. ignéscens, and has a fine scarlet flower, with a large dark spot in 
each of the upper petals, price 21s. a plant. Of plants of the cockscomb 
we had never before seen so many; a whole range of lights and the 
stage and shelves of a green-house were filled with them; all of them 
looked in high luxuriance, and their combs were looking beautiful. 
The globe amaranth (Gomphréna globésa), the purple and the white, is 
the tender annual which Mr. Dennis is this year, next to the cockscomb, 
growing in the greatest quantity: last year he grew the ice plant in 
the same wholesale manner. Among the hardy plants, we were pleased 
with part of a bed of Lychnis chalcedonica, white-flowered; Francoa 
appendiculata, of which Mr. Dennis has a good stock of young plants ; 
with Lilium canadénse, and Catananche czerulea bicolor. 

It is well known that the flower-buds and the blossoms of georginas are 
frequently a good deal mutilated by the erosions of the earwig, and per- 
haps by those of the woodlouse alse. Earwigs feed by night, and hide 
themselves by day; and, in conformity to this their habit, Mr. Dennis has 
had a thumb or sixty pot, with a minute tuft of hay in it, hung invertedly 
on the tip of the stake to which each plant of georgina is tied for support. 
The earwigs, on the arrival of daylight, pass up the stake, and hide in the 
hay in the pot, where they are readily discoverable for destruction.— J. D. 

Weeks’s Horticultural Bazaar.— Mr. Weeks has fitted up a range of 
buildings with glass on all sides, and a roof partly glazed and _ partly 
opaque, for the display of various horticultural contrivances, as well as for 
the sale of plants in pots, and of fruits and cut flowers. There are also 
rooms, in which fruits and confectionery may be eaten. The principal 
object, however, is to display, on an extensive scale, Mr. Weeks’s newest 
mode of heating. This mode, which we have already noticed [p. 34], is 
most immediate in its effects; and we have no doubt about its merits 
except as to the durability of the apparatus, of which Mr. Weeks, on 
his part, has equally no doubt. A year or two will decide this pomt; and 
we have suggested the idea of taking down that part of the apparatus 
which surrounds the fire, once a year, and examining it, in the presence of 
competent judges, in order to ascertain whether it is at all, and if so, to 
what extent, incrusted with earthy deposit. Mr. Weeks here exhibits a 
very beautiful application of his mode of heating to the warming of cis- 
terns of water under pits, for growing melons, pine-apples, &c.; he has 
put the same mode in practice on a large scale at Mr. Tattersall’s, in Lower 
Grosvenor Place, and is about to do the same at Woburn Abbey and other 
country seats. We are glad to find that Mr. Weeks is putting up a num- 
ber of hot-houses, to be heated by his apparatus, in different parts of the 
country, so that this mode of heating will soon become extensively known. 


and other Suburban Gardens. 477 


London to Godalming, July 2.— This is the proper season of the year 
for observing, in the foliage of trees and shrubs, the effect of different 
shades of green, or what may be called their summer colours; and much 
instruction may be derived by merely observing, from the road, the dif- 
ferent trees and shrubs in the small gardens of suburban villas and 
cottages. In short, the whole of the neighbourhood of London, including 
a diameter of 20 or 30 miles, may be considered as one immense garden, 
displaying within its precincts almost every variety of horticulture, flori- 
culture, arboriculture, landscape-gardening, and garden architecture. 

A young gardener, if he has a certain previous stock of initiatory know- 
ledge, will gain more by devoting a few weeks, or months, to examining 
the London gardens, including market-gardens, nurseries, and private 
gardens of every grade, than he could by any other course of education 
whatever. Suppose an individual determined to improve himself in this 
way; he ought to take a lodging near the Horticultural Society’s Garden 
for a year, and get permission to work there without pay, at such times as 
he was not making excursions: we say without pay, because that is not 
to be expected where the service must necessarily be very irregular. He 
ought then to visit all the principal suburban gardens at least seven times 
in the course of the year; viz., once in autumn, once in winter, twice in 
spring, and three times in summer. The landscape-gardener may gain 
much by merely looking at objects from the road; but the garden archi- 
tect, the horticulturist, and the cultivator of flowers and trees, must enter 
the gardens, and converse with those at work in them. A very great 
beauty in the suburban scenery of London is the breadth of the hedge- 
banks, which are, in short, a species of shrubbery, or rather mixed borders 
of flowers and shrubs of many kinds, which afford a source of perpetual 
entertainment to the botanical observer. Very different are the roadsides 
in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh, where the hedges or stone walls 
occupy not more than a foot or two in breadth; or in the neighbourhood 
of Paris, where there is generally no fence at all, but a dry ditch, or, in 
the best situations, a row of elm trees. Were there no other difference 
whatever between the suburban scenery of these three cities than the 
appearance of the hedge-banks, that of London would be incomparably 
superior, in point of beauty and interest, to the other two. How meagre 
are the roadsides of the cultivated districts of Scotland, when compared 
with those of the most parts of England! yet there is a remedy even for 
the most meagre districts, and perhaps the time may come when a high 
degree of refinement shall have become so general that it will be applied. 
Instead of hedges of merely whitethorn, with one or two sorts of trees, 
at regular distances, and a grassy ditch, substitute numerous different 
kinds of hardy shrubs as a hedge, and trees of various sorts and standards, 
adding a row of herbaceous plants. Vary the walls by creepers and 
climbing plants of the shrubby kind, and by herbaceous creepers, alpine, 
and wall plants. 

We took the route of Hammersmith, Putney Heath, Kingston, Thames 
Ditton, Esher, Cobham Street, Ripley, and Guildford ; a delightful road, 
on the objects seen from which we could expatiate with pleasure to an 
extent which would fill this Magazine; but we will confine ourselves, as 
much as possible, to the places which we called at. 

Richmond Park.— Simple and grand; part of the wall adjoining the 
road is varied by ivy of the common kind; we could not help obsery- 
ing, that if the giant ivy had been substituted, it would have formed a 
very different scale to all the objects beyond the wall; the ivy being in 
the foreground. This may afford a useful hint to landscape-gardeners. 
Giant trees, such as some of the rapid-growing poplars, improperly placed 
m a park or pleasure-ground of moderate size, or placed too near, or 


478 Calls at the London Nurseries, 


too far distant from a house, may derange the scale of the whole of the 
scenery. Even rapid-growing trees of moderate size, placed among slow- 
growing trees, will produce the same discordance. 

Boyle Farm, near Thames Ditton. — We had occasion to visit this beau- 
tiful spot professionally in the course of the spring. It borders the 
Thames, at a fine bend of that noble river; and its two principal features 
are, on one side of the house, the river scenery, with distant prospects 
beyond; and, on the other, recluse home scenery, highly enriched with 
flower-gardens, American shrubs, rockwork, artificial hills and dales, 
and other kinds of garden decoration. The transition from the one 
kind of scenery to the other is made in a moment, and the contrast 
is proportionately striking. The place must have been laid out and planted 
with great pains, and carefully managed for a number of years afterwards. 
The grouping of some of the trees by the river side is excellent ; but, in 
the interior, many of the trees have lately been cut down, or lopped in 
such a way as to destroy the screens which they formed for separating 
the different recluse scenes from one another, and thus materially to 
injure the beauty of the place. 

Hampton Court.— We had occasion to go through this palace and its. 
gardens in the course of the spring. We saw nothing new in the house; 
but, in passing through so many unoccupied and half-furnished rooms, 
we could not help noticing the want of real magnificence on the one 
hand, or of plain usefulness on the other. The best part of Hampton 
Court Palace is its exterior; which, though in faulty architecture, yet 
forms one grand mass suitable to the situation. The gardens are also 
excellent of their kind, and it is to be regretted that they are not kept up, 
either with sufficient care in point of order and neatness, or due attention 
to their original form. The walks are harrowed, or raked, instead of 
being rolled, and look more like newly sown ridges of corn land in a 
eravelly soil, than walks. The flowers and shrubs are straggling and 
tawdry, neglected or badly pruned, and either overgrown or deformed. 
The fountains, too, are in bad order; but in no country, we believe, are the 
palaces and gardens of kings kept in such good order as those of private 
individuals. After the first expense of building and laying out has been 
incurred, some change takes place; the successor, probably, dislikes the 
situation or the arrangements; and the whole is put into keeping, at the 
lowest possible rate of expense. Even the villa of a gentlemen of mo- 
derate fortune, who has probably no other residence, is generally in better 
order than any one of those of a very wealthy man, who has several, and 
a town house besides. For example, the Marquess of Westminster has 
several princely villas in different parts of the country, but there is not 
one of them kept up in such first-rate style as some of the small villas 
of retired tradesmen near manufacturing towns. 

Esher. — The churchyard here is badly laid out, and is without trees, 
with the exception of a circle of hollies, which is planted round one tomb, 
and which shows what might be done. A man was rooting out mallows 
and other large plants which gave an appearance of rankness, and the 
churchyard being surrounded on three sides by a high wood added to 
this bad effect. Open, airy, and elevated situations are preferable for 
burying-grounds, and the surface should either be regularly mown, or, 
what is better, be grazed by a few sheep. 

Claremont. — The lane leading from the village to the lodge is bor- 
dered on the left by a sweetbriar hedge behind a line of paling. The 
fragrance of such a hedge, in the mornings and evenings, and after rain, is 
most grateful: we mention this hedge, for the sake of stating that we 
think sweetbriar hedges are far less common in the neighbourhood of Lon- 
don than they ought to be. A marginal belt toa pleasure-ground, thinly 


and other Suburban Gardens. 4.79 


studded with ornamental trees, with an undergrowth formed entirely of 
sweetbriar and other roses, would have a fine effect. We did not enter 
the gardens, Mr. M‘Intosh not being at home. 

Esher Place, J. Spicer, Esq. — This was the first place we saw of those 
described in Whately’s Observations on Modern Gardening ; and the name 
of it, or the appearance of the entrance gate at a distance, always raises 
in our mind sublime emotions. Having the Observations almost by heart 
before we left Scotland, the first thing we did, after our arrival in London, 
in 1804, was to make a walking excursion to see as many of the places 
described in the Odservations as we could. The first place we called at 
was HKsher Place, the next Claremont, then Pain’s Hill, next Oatlands, 
then Southgate, and so on to Blenheim, and ultimately to Hagley, Enville, 
the Leasowes, Fisherwick, Piercefield, &c. The neighbourhood of Esher 
is, therefore, to us classic ground, and more especially Esher Place, 
which, in point of natural beauty, we greatly prefer to Claremont, though 
we like Pain’s Hill far better than either. 

Pain’s Hill, Wm. Cooper, Esq. — Considerable improvements have 
been made here since it came into the hands of its present proprietor. 
The public road has been widened, and a new bridge, on the suspension 
principle, thrown across it, to connect the ground on both sides, in lieu 
of the old wooden one, formerly used for the same purpose. The effect 
of this bridge is exceedingly good in various points of view; for, even if 
there were very little ground on the other side, the bridge conveys the 
idea of the two sides being the same property, and thus strengthens the 
impression of extent. We had only time to look at the new conservatory, 
which has been added to the house, and to mark the very judicious man- 
ner in which the elevation of the latter has been improved, and yet its 
original simplicity of style preserved. There are here no half or three- 
quarter columns, or entire columns, without real use; three faults in 
architecture, that we are in constant dread of meeting with in the works 
of most modern architects. The conservatory is well stocked; as are 
the flower-beds in its neighbourhood and in front of the old conservatory, 
We missed the four beautiful therms and busts which used to decorate 
the piers between the windows of this venerable garden building, and 
hope they are carefully preserved somewhere. Every part of this place 
which came within our observation in this hurried glance was in the highest 
keeping and order: only two faults obtruded themselves on our notice, 
which we mention, because they may be easily remedied. The first is, 
that the terrace walk in front of the house branches off in an awkward 
manner, on the west side, nearly opposite the conservatory, whereas the 
whole line ought either to be straight, or of one uniform sweep; this 
being required by the character of grandeur and art which ought to be the 
object aimed at immediately in front of the mansion. The second is, that 
the suspending chains of the bridge rise abruptly out of the green turf, 
without the slightest architectural preparation, than which we know 
nothing more offensive to a cultivated eye. This can never be the work 
of an architect or engineer; it must have been done by one of the very 
commonest workmen employed in putting up the bridge. The chain 
ought to proceed from the centre of a proper basis of hewn stone, and 
that basis ought to be of a peculiar kind, to suit the apparent strain upon 
it. We hope, in the course of the summer, to take a more extended view 
of this, in our eyes, by far the most delightful and most instructive of all 
the places described by Whately. 

Godalming, July 3. — We proceeded a few miles’ distance to a very old 
family mansion, in the Elizabethan style, the proprietor of which was 
desirous of consulting us professionally. We were much delighted with 
the old buildings and gardens, and especially with a magnificent grassy 


4.80 Calls at the London Nurseries, 


terrace with a scarp, as a fruit wall; and a second terrace as a fruit and 
flower border, with a counterscarp of masonry, and a broad moat below. 
We observed here what we often find beside very old mansions, a sort of 
moat, of considerable size, devoted to the reception of those matters which 
in London all find their way into the common sewer. The effluvia pro- 
ceeding from this moat, which adjoined the garden, was in this hot weather 
most offensive, and, but for the elevated situation, must have proved per- 
nicious to the health of the family. Ina very old plan which the pro- 
prietor showed us, which had been made for laying out the grounds of 
this place about the time of Charles II., there was an avenue of trees 
indicated, proceeding from the house up a steep hill, and gradually nar- 
rowing as its distance increased, probably with a view of assisting the 
perspective, and giving the idea of extent. It is certain that an avenue 
which faces us from the side of a steep hill looks longer, to the inexpe- 
rienced eye, than one which stretches along a plain. ‘To be convinced of 
this, we have only to compare the avenues at Hampton Court with those 
about Windsor Castle, or the one leading from Hamilton Palace to 
Chatelherault. 

Villas in Godalming. — This evening, and the morning of the 5th inst., 
we visited two very beautiful town villas; the one about an acre, and the 
other about three acres in extent; both very judiciously laid out by Mr. 
Perry, and his pupil Mr. Varden, assisted by the ladies of the respective 
families. These villas show how much may be made of limited spots in 
the midst of a town; though, at the same time, it must be confessed that 
there are very few towns, indeed, so well adapted for this purpose as 
Godalming, from the beautiful scenery with which it is surrounded. We 
found Wistaria Consequana, Caprifolium flexuosum, Magnolia conspicua, 
Ribes sanguineum, Spirze‘a bélla (to which we could wish to add S. ariz- 
folia, a splendid, white-flowered, fine-growing shrub, of the middle size, and 
of the easiest possible culture), and others of our favourite plants, grow- 
ing vigorously in these gardens; and, in both, indications of the com- 
mencement of arboretums, by planting rare trees and shrubs, so as 
gradually to substitute them for the common sorts, and ultimately to have 
not more than two or three trees or shrubs of a species in the whole 
garden; in short, to make each place a botanic garden. We also visited 
a third town garden, now laying out by Mr. Varden, who, when he once 
gets a tolerable knowledge of trees and shrubs, promises to be a very 
excellent landscape-gardener. 

Milford Nursery, Mr. Wm. Young.— We were not aware, when we 
last visited this nursery (see Vol. VII. p. 365.), that it was so extensive 
as we now find it to be. It contains upwards of thirty acres, and, besides 
the pits, which we before examined, there are two large green-houses now 
erecting, and a small stove for ferns. All the numerous new plants sent 
home by Philip Barker Webb, Esq., and noticed in our Epsom lists in 
preceding volumes, were first received, and for the most part raised, in 
this nursery, before they were sent to Messrs. Young, at Epsom. We 
were shown a great number of new plants at Milford, which have not yet 
flowered, or been figured: but, as Mr. Young has promised a list of them, 
we shall confine ourselves at present to noticing the arboretum in the 
grounds of Mr. Webb. We were not before aware of the existence of 
such a treasure of trees and shrubs in this part of the country. They 
are distributed along the margin of the park, so as to form the pleasure 
ground, or shrubbery; and, for the most part, they are placed at such 
distances on the turf as will admit of their attaming something like their 
full size. The collection of oaks is remarkably complete, exceeding sixty 
species, almost every one of which has been raised from the acorn by 
Mr. Young. There are a great many of the genus Pinus, of A*cer, of 


and other Suburban Gardens. 481 


U’Imus, and of Cratz‘gus. Among the acers, there is an old tree of A. 
rubrum, which, Mr. Young informed us, formed a column of deep scarlet 
in the autumn, so as to be a conspicuous object at some miles’ distance. 
We saw the first plant of Magnolia macrophylla which was introduced 
into the country. It cost Mr. Webb fifteen guineas, about twelve or thir- 
teen years ago. The soil where it stands seems too wet for it, because it 
is not nearly so large as several plants of the same species which we have 
seen; but, nevertheless, it was in flower. Sérbus doméstica, planted by 
Mr. Webb’s father, has attained the height of 30 ft., and bears abundant 
crops of fruit yearly; each fruit having generally not more than one 
perfect seed. It is singular that Mr. Young should never have thought of 
raising plants, from these seeds, of a tree so searce that we do not believe 
that all the nurseries in Great Britain and Ireland put together could 
muster twenty plants. Indeed, if Messrs. Loddiges’s arboretum were 
excepted, we question if they could muster ten. We are not a little 
proud of having two of these scarce trees here at Bayswater, one of 
which is now in fruit. Among the large trees are fine specimens of the 
tulip tree (in flower when we saw it), of the oriental and occidental 
planes, Robinia, Gleditschia, Sophira, &c., which, being neither very rare, 
nor remarkable in their growth, we pass over, to notice a black Italian 
poplar, nine years old, which, at 5 ft. from the ground, is 6 ft. in circum- 
ference, and in height is 50 ft. It was little more than a cutting when 
planted by Mr. Young, so that its leading shoot must have averaged up- 
wards of 51 ft. of growth every year. We hope to see this arboretum 
and the Milford Nursery again soon, and in future to have more frequent 
communication with Mr. Young. 
Busbridge, near Milford, July 4. Robert Munro, Esq. — This is a very 
interesting old place, though lately much denuded of its most valuable 
timber. It belonged to Philip Carteret Webb, Esq., the grandfather of 
the present proprietor of Milford House; who, being (like his son and 
erandson) a botanist, had it laid out in the best taste of the time, viz. 
that of London and Wise, and planted with the rarest trees which the 
Brompton nursery then produced. The house, with the pleasure-ground 
scenery, is situated in a narrow valley or dell, through which had 
originally run a very small rill, which is now dammed up so as to forma 
number of canals and ponds of different artificial shapes, ornamented with 
fountains and cascades. The house is a plain modern erection, and is the 
only part of the place which is not decidedly ancient. The kitchen-garden 
we could imagine to have been laid out by Switzer, since it very much 
resembles one of his published plans, having one slope to the north, and 
another to the south. It occupies, in fact, both sides of the valley, and so 
steep is the surface, that the outer wall on the north side is backed up for 
three fourths of its height, as at Albury (see Vol. VII. p. 364.), with the 
earth of the rising ground behind. Within this wall there is another, 
which is a terrace wall, and is covered with vines, one of a sort, evidently 
of great age, since the trunks of some of them, at the surface of the 
ground, are nearly a foot in diameter. In an old flower-garden stands a 
half-ruined conservatory (the roof of which is removed every summer), 
which contains two standard olive trees, 15 ft. high, which bear every 
year; Latrus indica, with a trunk nearly a foot in diameter ; Chamee‘rops 
humilis, 15 ft. high; and Justicia Adhdtoda, as high as the roof will 
permit, and which, like a number of old myrtle trees, has been cut in many 
times. One of the first trees of At/dntus glandulosa ever planted in this 
country stood near this conservatory, till within these few years, when it 
met with an accident, and was cut down. ‘This tree, we are informed by 
Miller, in his Dictionary, was raised by him and Mr. Webb, from seed, in 
1751. We could not learn whether it had ever flowered at Busbridge ; 
Vou. IX. — No. 45. ii 


482 Calls at the London Nurseries. 


in France it is stated that it bears some years male flowers, and some 
years female ones, and that about twice in ten years both male and female 
flowers appear at once, when seed is ripened. There are numerous silver 
firs in these grounds, of enormous size; their timber, we conjecture, not 
being esteemed sufficiently valuable for them to be cut down. The place, 
we understand, is for sale, and we sincerely hope it may fall into the 
hands of some person who will appreciate its value better than its present 
possessor appears to do. 

Godalming to Epsom, July 5.— The road passes through Guildford, and 
along a tract of chalky table land, to Leatherhead. Between the latter 
place and Guildford there are several parks of considerable extent, the 
general scenery of which is seen from the road. ‘The fields were covered 
with good crops, especially of wheat. Preparations were making for 
sowing turnips in every part of the country through which we passed; but 
only in one solitary field did we see a Scotch plough, and the turnips 
sown on raised drills. We observed a drill, resembling in appearance 
Morton’s broadcast sowing-machine, from which the seeds were distributed 
in lines about a foot asunder, on a flat surface; a very bad mode, and 
much more expensive than the common equally bad mode of sowing 
broadcast. We would have no one attempt the culture of turnips in 
fields, who does not perfectly understand the Berwickshire system. The 
wild plants on both sides of the road, from Guildford to Leatherhead, are 
numerous, and some of them very beautiful. The wild endive and the 
small convolvulus were finely in flower. alldta nigra was every where 
more vigorous than usual. The wild carrot, the wild parsnep, and the 
wild lettuce, are all to be found in the hedges along this road. At 
Leatherhead the scenery takes something of a new character, becoming 
more enriched and woody. The cottage gardens are most beautiful, and 
we observed in them many of the new North American plants introduced 
by Mr. Douglas, which would seem to indicate the neighbourhood of the 
Epsom nursery, and the nurseries of Dorking. In passing Ashtead Park, 
we were much gratified to observe Mr. Hislop’s dendrophylactics (see 
Vol. VI. p. 47.), continuing to protect the trees so humbly, and yet so 
effectually. There can be no doubt but that this is a most valuable in- 
vention for protecting newly planted trees, wherever appearance is an 
object. 

Epsom Nursery. —- There is much to be seen and talked of here. One 
of the first things which we ascertained was, that several lists, which Mr. 
Penny has sent us, of new things which have bloomed in the nursery 
during the last 18 months, have been lost; a circumstance difficult to 
account for, and which we deeply regret. We have, however, taken means 
to insure the safe arrival of Mr. Penny’s lists in future. The nursery was 
in perfect order, and our excellent friend, Mr. Penny, as active and 
obliging as ever, and, as usual, overflowing with his subject. The roses 
here, as every where else, have bloomed better than they have done for 
many years. A number of the climbing sorts, trained as pyramids, were 
still covered with flowers. One Bengal flérida had 300 buds in one 
bunch, and the Queen of the Belgians, a beautiful new double variety of 
the Ayrshire rose, had 450. One plant of Hosa élegans had above 
5000 flowers. The rose called Madame d’Arblay produced a shoot this 
year 16 ft. long, and nearly as thick as the wrist. Messrs. Young have 
lately begun to collect heartsease (a plant which has, during the last 
ten years, been elevated into the rank of a florist’s flower), and have 
already 278 sorts. No. 84., Reform, we were told by Mr. James Young, 
was the best of the whole. Of the genus Bérberis there are now 
12 rare species in this nursery, besides as many more of the common 
kinds: a few years ago, there were only half a dozen species in the 


1897. 


Floricultural and Botanical Notices. 483 


country, five of which were rare, Of that exotic-looking evergreen, 
Yucca, there is a very complete collection; and an ample stock of that 
most elegant species, Y. rectrva. A kind of tart rhubarb was pointed out 
to us by Mr. Young as having been raised from seed in this nursery ; it is 
a hybrid between the giant rhubarb, and Wilmot’s early, and it shoots 
up in spring three weeks earlier than the latter variety. It will be an 
invaluable addition to the kitchen-garden. We shall not attempt to 
go farther into details, and must refer the reader to Mr. Penny’s list, 
p. 489. 


Art. III. Floricultural and Botanical Notices of new Plants, and 
of old Plants of Interest, supplementary to the latest Editions of 
the “ Encyclopedia of Plants,’ and of the Hortus Britannicus.” 


Curtis’s Botanical Magazine ; each monthly Number containing eight plates ; 
3s. 6d. coloured, 3s. plam. Edited by Dr. Hooker, King’s Professor of 
Botany in the University of Glasgow. 

Edwards’s Botanical Register; each monthly Number containing eight 
plates ; 4s. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Lindley, F.R.S., Pro- 
fessor of Botany in the London University. 

Sweet's British Flower-Garden; each monthly Number containing four 
plates; 3s. coloured, 2s. 3d. plain. Edited by David Don, Esq., Libra- 
rian to the Linnean Society. 

Loddiges’s Botanical Cabinet; each monthly Number containing ten plates ; 
5s. coloured, 2s. 6d. partly coloured. . Edited by Messrs. Loddiges. 


DicotyLEDONOUS PoLYPETALOUS PLANTS. 


IX. Crucifere. 
A/RABIS. 


16133a risea Dec. rosy-fiwd. é A?orlf Ro €alabria 1832. Ss Bot. mag. 3246 


1472. 


1183. 


“ This beautiful and rare plant ”’ is figured from the garden of the Rev. 
Mr. Selwyn of Kilmington, Wilts. ‘ Flowers large in proportion to the 
size of the plant; collected into a dense rounded raceme or corymb, of a 
beautiful and rather deep rose colour.” (Bot. Mag., June.) 

XLVI. Cactee. 
CE*REUS 12565 speciosissimus 
2 lJateritius Lindl. brick-red #& —] or 2 my.s Bri.R Eng.hyb. 1831. C Is.Jt Bot. reg. 1596 

“ This variety was raised by Mr. Pressley, gardener to Walter Boyd, 
Esq., of Plaistow, in Essex. It approaches C. Jenkinson? in many respects, 
but has paler and more brick-red petals. It was exhibited at a meeting of 
the London Horticultural Society, on May 1. 1832, and was much ad- 
mired. No one seems to have any difficulty in cultivating plants of this 
description: nevertheless, it may be well to know that they succeed much 
better in a soil composed of a large proportion of leaf mould, mixed with 
sand and loam, than in any other compost. (ot. Reg., July.) 

XLVII. Onagrarig § Onagree. 

G@NOTHE'RA. 
densiflora Lind/. close-flowering © or 3? aut P N. California 1831. Ss.} Bot. reg. 1593 


A remarkable species, sent by Mr. Douglas to the Horticultural Society, 
in whose garden it flowered in 1832, and was proved to be an annual ; and 
where it produced seeds in abundance. The stem is straight, and, in a rich 
soil, corymbosely branched from each of the axillary buds of the main 
stem, which in the genus G@nothera usually produce a single flower, 
being developed into a short branch that, itself, bears flowers in the axils 
of its own leaves. The stem-leaves are linear lanceolate, sessile, acumi- 
nate, and toothed. The flowers are small, but very numerous ; and thus 

Ir 2 


1512. 


1262. 


1985. 
17711, 


1980. 


484 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


form a showy spike. In some particulars, this differs generically from the 
cenotheras already in cultivation. ‘ Upon the whole, we incline to con- 
sider it a connecting link between Gatra and @nothéra.” (Bot. Reg., 
June.) Assimilates in habit to the genus Epilobium. Penny, p. 490. 

LXXIV. Pomdcee. 
eens He Re ae or Gmy W N.W.Amer. 1828? Lco Bot. reg. 1589 

« A handsome hardy shrub, in the mode of the snowy mespilus.” Ac- 
cording to the figure, the leaves of the plant are not unlike those of 
hornbeam ; and the white blossoms are borne densely in the racemes: 
these latter are shown 2in. in length, and as if numerously produced. 
“ The petals vary in length: in one of our wild specimens from Mr. 
Douglas [by whom this species was discovered and sent to England], they 
are more than three quarters of an inch long.... « 4. florida is at once 
recognised by the shortness of its stamens; otherwise it is very near akin 
to A. sanguinea.” (Bot. Reg., June.) 

LXXVII. Leguminose. 


. BURTONIA. 


conférta Dec. clustered-flwd. #\_Jor 2 jls V S,W.N. Holl. 1830. C s.p Bot. reg. 1600 


“« A very pretty green-house shrub, forming a compact bush ;” whose 
upright (at least, ascending) graceful branches, clothed with leaves not 
very unlike those of some species of heath, are crowned by a corymb of 
numerous, violet-coloured, pea-shaped blossoms. The heath-like appear- 
ance of the leaves is produced by the edges of every leaf being rolled back 
until they almost meet. B. conférta flowered in July, 1832, in the nur- 
sery of Mr. Knight, into which it had been introduced by Mr. Baxter. 
(Bot. Reg., July.) 

PULTEN &*4. (Bot. mag. 3254 
-subumbellata Hook. subumbellatefiwd. 3 _! or 1 ap O.Y Van Die. Land 1831. C s.p.l 

“ For the possession of this highly ornamental green-house plant, the 
Glasgow Botanic Garden is indebted to Dr. Scott; who sent seeds from 
Van Diemen’s Land, from which plants were raised that blossomed in 
April, 1833.. The flowers are very bright-coloured, and almost every 
branch bears a head of them; and the variegated vexillum, or standard, is 
singularly exposed, so that its colours may be seen to the best advantage.” 
(Bot. Mag., July.) 

Oxylobium Pultenée is figured in the Botanical Cabinet for July, t. 1947. 
It is a pleasing shrub, whose leaves are disposed in a whorl of four, or of 
three; or scattered along the upright branches, which are severally (such 
as produce flowers) terminated by a head of yellow pea-shaped blossoms. 
LUPINUS. 
rivularis Lindl. river side Y A or 3my.s W.B.P California 1831. S co~ Bot. reg. 1595 

Sent to the London Horticultural Society by Mr. Douglas. “ It forms 
a handsome hardy perennial, flowering in great profusion from May to 
September. In some respects, this is even a better species for gardens 
than ZL. polyphyllus ; for, if it is less stately, it is more gay in its appear- 
ance, and a longer flowerer. The diversity of colours in the petals [white, 
blue, and purple], no doubt, contributes very much to this effect ; which 1s 
increased by the plant’s loose, but not straggling, mode of growth. It in- 
creases freely by seeds and cuttings.” (ot. Reg., July.) 


ADE’SMIA. [Bot. mis. 3. p. 193 
Loudénia Hook and Arnott Loudon’s #j; _Jor2my.jn  Y Valparaiso 1832. S pl 
Louddnia anthylléides Bertervo, Gard. Mag. vol. vii. p. 690. note *. 

A shrub with upright branches, which are copiously clad with hoary, 
pimnate, very silky leaves; and each of these, in the terminal portion of 
the branches, bears in its axil a pleasing yellow blossom. As the leaves 
are numerous, so are the flowers; and the number and beauty of both 
render Adésmia Loudonia an interesting, ornamental, and, therefore, de- 


13357. 


supplementary to Enc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 485 


sirable plant. In many ef our winters, a pit, cold frame, or even a mat 
nailed against a wall, will probably preserve its life through the winter. 
Bertero, the late botanical traveller in South America, had thought the 
shrub to be the type of a new genus; but Dr. Hooker and Mr. Arnott 
have deemed it to belong to the genus Adésmia. 

Mr. Thomas Bridges, collector of natural productions in South America, 
in a letter dated Valparaiso, Oct. 25. 1832, thus speaks on this plant ; — 
“ Bertero has dedicated a genus to Mr. Loudon; a beautiful plant found 
sparingly about Valparaiso, Loudonia anthylloides. If Mr. Loudon do not 
possess specimens [through the kindness of Mr. Hugh Cuming, he does], 
I will send one when I have returned from Chiloe.” 

Acacia decipiens var. premérsa, noticed in our last (p. 365.), is figured in the Botanical Ma- 

gazxine for June, t. 3244. 

Mimosa latispinosa, the leaves of, have, we have been recently informed, 
been observed to possess a degree of the sensitive property which is so 
obvious and well known in the humble plant, Mimosa pudica. 

CXLIV. Portulacee. 

CALANDRI/NI 4. 


12175a specidsa Lindl. showy © Xsplimy.o D.P WN. California 1831. Ss. Bot, reg. 1598 


1173. 


C. speciosa, on a hot dry bank or bed, when the sun is shining full upon 
it, with all its large rich crimson blossoms fully expanded, and reposing 
upon the soft velvety bed formed by its succulent leaves, is a most beau- 
tiful object. It is a hardy annual, propagated readily by seeds, which it 
bears in great abundance. It loves dry and exposed situations, and flou- 
rishes most in scorching weather; but it should be grown in tolerably 
rich soil; or, if in very poor soil, it should be sown thick. Under the 
former circumstances, it forms a patch a foot and more in diameter ; in the 
latter case, its branches are not above two or three inches long, as in the 
wild specimens sent home by Mr. Douglas (who introduced the species), 
and in the London Horticultural Society’s possession. It flowers in May 
or June, if sown early; or in September and October, if later. It isa 
plant eligible for cultivating on rockwork, in a sunny aspect. (Bot. Reg., 
July.) 


DicotyLEpDoNous MonoreraLous PLants. 


CLXX. Ericee § vere. 
ERYCA § Ovatiflore. 
quadrata B.C. square-mouthed #\} or 13 my W C.G.H. 1829. Cs.p Bot. cab. 1943 

“ Introduced by Mr. Lee. It flowered with us abundantly in May. 
The flowers are very angular in their form; and the opening is perfectly 
square, which has suggested the specific name.” (Bot. Cadb., July.) 

Ericee § Rhodordcee. Of Rhododéndron campanulatum, introduced, 
according to the Hortus Britannicus, in 1817, a figure is published in Lod- 
diges’s Botanical Cabinet for July, t. 1944. Messrs. Loddiges raised it 
from seeds in 1825. The head of blossoms depicted show it to be a superb 
species. The flowers are large, and in colour white; but clouded and 
margined with lilac or a pale purple. 2. campanulatum is a native of 
elevated situations in Nepal; and may, perhaps, bear our winters unin- 
jured. “ During the last two, several plants have remained well out of 
doors with us. The young leaves are at first purplish underneath; they 
then become milk-white; and afterwards, when quite hardened, change to 
a kind of tan colour. It flowered with us in April, kept in a cold frame. 
We have succeeded in propagating it by layers as well as by cuttings, in 
soil formed of loam and peat’ Mr. Loddiges, sen., deceased, was the first 
who had for sale the R. pénticum, now so general an ornament to the 
flower-gardens of this country. ‘“ He also introduced the Chameecistus 
caucasicum and chrysanthum; and, lately, we have added to the number 

113 


486 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


barbatum, camtchaticum, and lepidotum; and one other unknown species 
from Nepal: none of which have yet flowered with us.” (Bot. Cab., 
July.) The &. barbatum is planted into a bed of soil in one of Messrs. 
Loddiges’s glass houses ; and is especially striking, from the footstalks of 
its leaves being thickly and strongly bearded with hairs, which, if we have 
not remembered inaccurately, have each a glandular extremity. 


11022a barbatum Lod. bearded-petioled %\_]or3 ... -.. Nepal 1829? L p.l Bot. cab. 1944. in text. 
camchaticum Lod. in the text of Bot. Cab, 1944., in Cat, 15th ed. 1830. 
lepiddtum Wal. scaly # _Jorz ... Ro Nepal 1829. Ls.p Royle Himal. bot, 
CLXXI. Epacridee. 
E’PACRIS. [3243 


504. 


2060. 


cerefldra Grah. wax-flowered #\_|or2 mr.ap W Van Die. Land 1831. Cs.p Bot. mag. 


Raised at the botanic garden, Edinburgh. “ Stem erect, branched, very 
slender. Leaves lanceolate, acuminate, mucronate, spreading. Flowers 
collected near the extremity of the branches, and borne on one side of 
them, white.” (Bot. Mag., June.) 
campanulata B. C. 1925. 

2 alba B.C. white-flwd. %,_Jor 2 mr WwW N.S.W. 1830. Cs.p Bot. cab. 1931 

“ We raised it, in 1830, from seeds from New South Wales; and it 
flowered in March, 1833. It is a very lively and beautiful plant.” (Bot. 
Cab., June.) 

Styphelia tubiflora is figured in Loddiges’s Botanical Cabinet for June, 
t. 1398. “ Although this beautiful plant has long been known by descrip- 
tions and dried specimens, we had never seen it in a living state till we 
raised it from seeds in 1830. In March, 1833, it produced its elegant 
[crimson] flowers: the plant was erect, about 2 ft. in height, with many 
stiff small branches.” 

Leucopogon Riche? is figured in the Botanical Magazine for July, t.3251., 
and is accompanied by a most interesting memoir of M. Riche (in com- 
memoration of whom the species has been named), and a digest of the 
synonymes which belong to this species: by the latter, it appears that 
the 


Leucopsgon parviflorus of Lindley in Bot. Reg., t. 1560., noticed in our p. 237., is but asynonyme 
of L. Richeé Bot. Mag. 3251. 


CXCII. ? Loranthee. 


AWCUBA japonica is, in Hort. Brit., p. 379., wrongly placed in the class Monee‘cia, and Order 
Tetrandria: it belongs to Dice‘cia Tetrandria ; and it is presumed that only the female sex 
has been yet introduced into Britain; at least all the plants to be met with in blossom (and 
these are not few every spring) are of this sex. 


CCVII. Primulacee. 

Primula amee‘na is figured in the Botanical Magazine for July, t. 3252., 
from the collection of Mr. Neill, Canonmills, Edinburgh ; who obtained 
it of Mr. Goldie, who brought it from St. Petersburgh. It flowered beau- 
tifully in a cold frame, in April last, producing an umbel of eighteen per- 
fect flowers. The corolla is very handsome, purplish lilac in bud, or, when 
recently expanded, more blue after a few days. The leaves resemble those 
of P. véris (the common paigle of our fields) ; and suggest that P.amce‘na 
may be cultivated without much difficulty. 

CCIX. Gesnéree. Gesnéria Douglaszi Lindl. is figured in Loddiges’s 
Botanical Cabinet for June, t. 1939.; where Mr. Douglas, “ the indefatigable 
traveller, whose name it bears,” is justly eulogised as one “ who, with most 
active zeal and industry, has done, and is doing, so much for botanical 
science : not merely by accumulating for the dead gardens of dry collectors, 
but for the living splendour of almost every garden in Europe; through 
the whole of which, the beautiful plants which he first discovered have 
been disseminated.” 

CCXI. Scrophuldrine. § Stamens only two, both bearing anthers. 


CALCEOLA‘RIA 27993 purpirea. 
2 élegans D. Don elegant ¥ A or 1 jls Pa.P Chile 1832. DI.p Sw.fi.gar.2.s.199 


1783. 


486. 


supplementary to Enc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 487 


“We are indebted to Mr. Wheeler, nurseryman, Warminster, Wilts, 
for the opportunity of giving a figure of this fine variety, raised by him 
from Chilean seeds, received from Mr. Hugh Cuming. We had the plea- 
sure of seeing the plant when in full flower, and we have seldom witnessed 
any thing so beautiful: the large spreading panicles, with its profusion of 
blossoms of various shades of purple, contrasted with the dark green leaves 
and glossy stem, had a pretty effect. Like the other variety, this is also 
perennial ; and will doubtless succeed very well in the open border during 
the summer months.” (D. Don in The British Flower-Garden, July.) 

Scrophulérine. § Tour stamens, all bearing anthers. 

MY’MULUS. 
yoseus Lindl. rosy,iwd. \ Ajor1 jl.au Ro N.California 1831. € p.l Bot. reg. 1591 

A beautiful species, sent by Mr. Douglas to the London Horticultural So- 
ciety, which at present does not possess very many plants of it. “ It is found 
rather difficult to manage, or else the right mode of treating it has not yet 
been applied ; for the plants that were kept in the open border, during the 
summer, by no means answered the expectations that had been enter- 
tained of it.... We suspect that it will grow better in a green-house 
than in the open air; just as is the case with the beautiful J. glutinosus 
W., from the same country. The plants in the garden of the Horticultural 
Society have been potted in loam and leaf mould, and have been kept 
under glass: they are succeeding much better this season than they did 
the last. (Bot. Reg., June. ): 

CCXIII. Solanee. § Seeds in a capsule. 


NICOTIANA. 
pérsica Lindl. Persian © or3 so: W.G Persia 1831. S1.t Bot reg. 1592 


The species which produces the far-famed tobacco of Shiraz: the com- 
mon Virginian tobacco is also cultivated in Persia; but from the N. pér- 
sica it is that tobacco of the finest quality is manufactured. “ Seeds of it 
were brought from Persia by Sir Henry Willock, upen his return from 
his late residence at the court of Ispahan; and communicated to the 
Horticultural Society, in whose garden it blossomed in September and 
October last. It is rather a handsome annual; exhaling a faint but 
pleasant odour in the evening, at which time its flowers are in perfection. 
In the Hort. Trans., new series, vol. i. p. 205., there is, by Dr. Riach, a 
full account of the Persians’ method of manufacturing this tobacco. It 


“appears to require a dark rich soil, and most abundant watering during all 


3474. 


the season of heat.” (Bot. Reg., June.) 
longifldra Cay. long-tubed © or 3 jls WwW Buenos Ayres 1851. Sw. fl. gar. 2. s. 196 


The tube of the corolla in this species is “ 4 in. or 5 in. long; the limb 
spreading, deeply 5-lobed [the tips of the five lobes would reach the cir- 
cumference of a crown piece]; plaited;, above of a clear white; un- 
derneath greenish, afterwards becoming of a dingy purple....... This 
curious species of tobacco forms another interesting addition to the flower- 
border, its long and slender-tubed blossoms being produced in great 
abundance, and for several months in succession. The singular pheno- 
menon, common to many white and dingy flowers, of expanding only at 
night, or in cloudy weather, occurs also in this plant.” (British Flower- 
Garden, June.) 

NIEREMBE’RG FA. : 
pheenicea D. Don purple-flwd. ¢ A) or3 jn.o P Uraguay 1831. C p.} Sw. fl. gar. 2s, 193 
The Salpiglissis integrifolia of Dr. Hooker, Bot. Mag., 3113., Hort. Brit., No. 29216. 

A highly valuable addition to the stock of showy-flowered easily cul- 
tivated plants with which our gardens are now enriched. What Petunia 
nyctaginiflora is in its white blossoms, this plant is in its blossoms of a rich 
rosy purple or almost crimson colour. The flowers are, perhaps, not quite 
so large as those of P. nyctaginiflora; but they are still large, and are 

Lt 4 


488 Floricultural and Botanical Notices. 


numerously produced. At Mr. Dennis’s nursery we saw, on June l., 
plants of the Nierembérgia pheenicea D. Don, in blossom: they had been 
sheltered in a glass house through the winter, and were still in one. This 
is the species which we have before stated (p. 107.) that some germens of 
it had been, in 1832, impregnated with pollen of Petunia nyctaginiflora : 
what the result may be is yet unpublished. The pollen of N. phoenicea 
itself is of a beautiful blue colour. Mr. D. Don compares the blossoms 
of N. pheenicea to those of aconvolvulus : he deems it naturally an annual, 
but may be perennial, extensible into perennial duration by cuttings. 
“Tt is,” says he, “ readily increased both by seeds and cuttings; but 
young plants raised from seeds are to be preferred, the blossoms in them 
being in general much larger. It is a native of the countries of the Rio 
de la Plata.” (British Flower-Garden, June.) 

CCXXVI. Hydrophillee. 

| 478, NEMO/PHILA. 

aurita Lindl. eared-lud. © X%or 13? my.au P California 1831. Sp... Bot. reg. 1601 

“ Rather a pretty species, found in California by Mr. David Douglas. 
It is a hardy trailing annual; requiring a damp shady border, where it 
grows and flowers from May to the end of August: but, if sown in a place 
exposed to the sun, it soon withers up and perishes. It is of very recent 
introduction by the London Horticultural Society, and is at present 
extremely rare; but, as it seeds tolerably freely, it will soon be more 
abundant.” Dr. Lindley describes, in continuation, some interesting facts 
on the internal structure of the seed-vessel; and the following one on the 
unripe ovules or seeds : —“ If squeezed in water, they emit a cloudy mat- 
ter; which, when examined microscopically, is found to consist of minute 
moving particles, mixed with drops of an oily fluid.’ (Bot. Reg., July.) 


MonocoryLeDonous PLANTS. 
CCXXX. Butomee. 


1558. LIMNO’/CHARIS. (Limné, mud, charis, grace or ornament ; its beautiful flowers adorn 
moist muddy places.) [3248 
Humbdéldt# Rich. Humboldt’s * AJ orliap Pa.Y Buenos Ayres 1831. S ms Bot. mag. 


A species very distinct from L. Plumiér?; and very interesting in its 
internally jointed leaf-stalks and flower-stalks ; rounded leaves, somewhat 
resembling, in miniature, those of a species of water lily; and umbels of 
pedunculated large pale yellow blossoms. The blossoms are very fugacious ; 
and, at present, have been produced only in the Liverpool Botanic Gar- 


den. It is not stated that the plant is yet in any other British collection. 
(Bot. Mag , July.) 


CCXXXV. Hypouidee. 
981. HYPO’XIS. 
ramdsa B.C. branched-stemmed ¥ ,Ajorijn.jl Y C.G.H. 1898? Osp Bot. cab. 1936 
“ We received it some years since..... After flowering, the bulb 
remains dormant, sometimes for one or two years. It appears to be very 
slow of increase, not producing offsets.” This species has rather large 
flowers. (Bot. Cab., June.) 
CCXXXIX. Iridee. 
116. CROYCUS. 


98006. lacteus Haw. cream-col.-flwd. K A ori f.mr Pa.Y Meesia 1620? O co Sw.fi.g.2.s.194. fig. sin. 
2 blue-streaked <“ A ori f.mr Y.B Mesia ... O co Sw.fi.g.2.s.194. fig. dex. 


Mr. Haworth contributes the communication on these two kinds of 
crocus, and has given numerous synonymes of, and full information on, 


them. “ They are very rare at present in our collections.” (British 
Flower-Garden, June.) 


CCXL. Orchidee } Malaxtdee. 
2547. DENDRO*BIUM. [Bot. cab. 1935 
22706a? pulchéllum:B.C. fair €{Z\jor1lfimr W.Ro.Y India 1830. D moistened moss 


“ This superb species is a native of India. It flowered with us [Messrs. 


11. 


Rare and interesting Plants. 489 


Loddiges], for the first time, in February and March, 1833. The flowers 
are exceedingly beautiful in form and colour: they remained several days 
in perfection. We have found this plant to thrive best in a small pot of 
moss, kept moist, and suspended from a rafter in the stove. It makes many 
branches, with numerous little roots pushing out in all directions.’ (Bot. 
Cab., June.) 
CCXLI. Scitaminee. 
CO'STUS. 
pictus D.:Don variegated-flwd. ye [XJor 14 au Y.P Mexico 1830? Ds.1 Bot. reg. 1594 
“ Introduced by seeds communicated to A. B. Lambert, Esq., by M. 
Deppe, a zealous Prussian botanist, who has been engaged for several 
years in prosecuting researches in natural history in Mexico. The plant 
flowers more freely, and appears to be less tender, than the other species 
at present cultivated in the garden.” (D. Don in Bot. Reg., June.) 
CCLXVIL. Asphodeélee. 


8590a CALLIPRO‘RA Lindi. (Kalé, pretty, prora, a front, pretty face; its beauty.) 


1118. 


Asphodélea, 6. 1. 

Tutea Lindi. yellow-flwd. § A or = jl Y N. California 1831? Op Bot. reg. 1590 

Received, by the London Horticultural Society, from Mr. Douglas, as 
“ a new genus allied to Brodiz‘a.” This view Dr. Lindley confirms; and 
farther states its approximation to, and the points of its distinctness from, 
the genera Leucocoryne and Triteleia. Calliproéra lutea proves to be a 
hardy, very handsome, bulbous plant; growing freely in a shaded peat bor- 
der, and flowering in July. It is propagated by offsets, which it produces 
pretty freely. No seeds have yet been ripened; but it is expected that 
they will be formed when the plants become stronger. The plant has 
the appearance of an 4’llium. Its leaves are linear, sword-shaped, acu- 
minate, canaliculate, of a full green colour, weak, longer than the scape, 
which is upright and round. The yellow flowers are umbelled, and, by the 
umbel depicted, consist of fifteen flowers ; each segment of the perianth is 
externally marked up its middle with brown purple. (Bot. Reg., June.) 

CCXLIX. Smildcee. 


TRI’LLIUM 9146 eréctum [8250 
3 viridifldrum Hook. pale green-flwd. % A or 3 apmy Pa.G Canada 1805. Ds.p Bot. mag. 
péndulum W., Hort. Brit. 9149. 


“Tt is quite unnecessary to enter into a full description of this variety, 
which only differs from « [Bot. Mag. 470., Hort. Brit. 9146.] in the differ- 
ently coloured petals; and from 6 [Bot. Mag. 1027., Hort. Brit, 9146. 
var. 2.] in the same particular, and in the broader petals.” (Bot, Mag., 


July.) 


Art. IV. A Selection of the rare and interesting Plants which 
flowered in the Epsom Nursery from March to July, 1833. 


DicoTyLepoNous PLAntTs. 


Ranunculicee Dec. Aquilégia (Tourn.) canadénsis L. B lutea Nuttall. 
— Delphinium (TYourn.) cheilanthum Fisch. 6 flore pléeno Penny. The 
type of this species is decidedly the finest of the perennial species: it is 
also rare. The variety is a splendid seminal production; which originated, 
I believe, near Manchester, where it is designated D. Barlowz. Flowers 
blue. In rich loamy soil it will attain the height of 4 ft. or 5 ft. — D. al- 
taicum Penny ined, A gigantic and very handsome perennial species, with 
blue flowers. It attains to the height of from 8 ft. to 10 ft. — Paonia 
(L.) officinalis Retz. var. anemoniflora Hook. Bot. Mag. t.3168., edulis 
Sal. var. Pottsii Sabine, Bot. Reg. t. 1436. 

Papaverdcee Juss. Glaticium (Tourn.) tricolor Penny. A. biennial 
with red flowers, and a velvet spot at the base of each petal. 


4.90 Rare and interesting Plants. 


Podophillee Lindl. Jeffersonia (Bart.) trilobum Nutt. Introduced, in 
1832, from North America. Its flowers, which are white, are produced in 
April. It thrives in heath mould, in a shady situation. 

Berberidez Vent. Leéntice (L.) altaica Pall. Bot. Mag. 3245. This 
elegant plant requires heath mould and a dry situation; or it may be 
grown in small pots, with plenty of drainage. 

Sterculiacee } 6. Lasiopetalee. Rulingia (R. Br.) corylifolia Graham, 
Bot. Mag. 3182. 

Grossulariée Dec. Ribes (L.) speciosum Pursh. Swt. Flow. Gard. n.s. 
t. 149. Requires a strong loamy soil. In heath mould, this species and 
R. sanguineum are subject to die suddenly. 

Onagrarie Juss. Cénothera (L.) densiflora Lind/. Bot. Reg. t. 1593. 
Assimilates in habit to the genus Epilobium. — Clarkia (Pursh ) élegans 
Doug. Bot. Reg. t. 1575. 

Myrtaceae. Bee'ckia saxicola Cun. Bot. Mag. t. 3160. 

Leguminosé Juss. Tribe 2. Lotee. Hovea (R. Br.) Célsi Bonpl. var. 
undulata Penny. More robust than H. Célst. The leaves are much 
more waved, and the flowers of a larger size. — Stauracanthus (Link) 
aphyllus Link, Bot. Reg. t. 1452. — Genista (Lam.) tinctoria L. B flore 
pléeno Penny.— Anthyllis (L.) maritima. — Psoralea (L.) palestina 
Gouan. — Tribe 5. Phasedlee. Lupinus (Tourn.) pulchéllus Penny in 
Gard. Mag. vol. vi. p. 116., and Sweet B. Fl. Gard. n.s. t.67. Dr. Lindley 
has recently given a figure of this fine species, under the name of L. éle- 
gans Humb. et K. (vide Bot. Reg. t. 1581.) ; but, judging from the descrip- 
tions given in books, we do not concur in that identification. Its seeds 
should be sown in autumn, and the plants kept on an airy shelf in the 
ereen-house till April; when they may be transferred to the open border, 
in rich earth, where they will flower from May to October, and will attain 
to 5 ft. or 6 ft. in height. It mayalso be treated as an annual. — Lupinus 
mutabilis Lindl. (non Sweet) in Bot. Reg. t. 1539., is identical with L. 
Cruikshanksz Hook. Bot. Mag. t. 3056. 

Owalidee Dec. O’xalis chinénsis Haw. - 

Tropedlee Juss. Trope‘olum (Z.) majus L. 8 atrosanguineum. This 
is a splendid variety, with deep crimson or blood-coloured flowers. — 
T. pentaphyllum Lam. 

Portulacee Juss. Portulaca (Tourn.) Gilliés#? Hook. B. M. t. 3064. — 
Calandrinia (Humb. et Bonpl.) speciosa Lind/. Bot. Reg. t. 1398. 

Scrophularine R. Br. JMimulus roseus Bot. Reg. t. 1590. 


MonocoTyLeDoNous PLANTS. 

Amaryllidee R. Br. Alstreeméria (L.) Sims# Spreng. — A. heemantha 
Ruiz et Pavon. This beautiful species is the Alstreemeria pulchélla var. 
pilosa of Lindley in Bot. Reg. t. 1410.; it is, indeed, closely atlied to A. 
Simsi, but very distinct from A. pulchélla, A. Hoodker?, and their allies, 
with which it seems to be by some confounded.—A. Pelegrina (L.) B alba. 
—A. Neill Gillies, Bot. Mag. t.3105.— A. pulchella Sims, Bot. Mag. 
We agree with Dr. Schultes in restoring the original name of this elegant 
species, which is unexceptionable. Its synonymes are, A. Flés Martinz 
Ker, and A. tricolor Hook.— A. bicolor Lod. Bot. Cab. t. 1497.— A. 
Hookeri Sweet. — A. pallida Otto. — A. psittacina Lehm. — A. atirea Hort. 
Closely related to A. psittacina; and, like that species, easily increased 
by division. The flowers are bright yellow, inclining to orange colour, with 
crimson lines on the upper segments: it is a beautiful species. We have 
added all the species we possess of this and the following genus: we cul- 
tivate them in a warm border, with a slight protection in winter. Young 
cuttings, an inch or two in length, strike root readily in the spring. The 
species of the genus Bomarea can scarcely be increased by any other 


Retrospective Criticism. 491 


method, unless seeds are produced. — Bomarea ( Mirbel) hirtélla Penny, 
Sweet Fl. Gard. sub. Alstroeméria, A. ovata Hook. B. M. and Lod. Cab. 
— B. acutifolia Penny, Sw. Fl. Gard. t.77. sub. Alst.— B. oculata Penny, 
Lod. Cab. 1851. sub. Alst. We follow Dr. Lindley’s suggestions, in Bot. 
Reg. t. 1410., in restoring Mirbel’s name for this well-marked genus. It 
is, indeed, surprising that the species composing it should ever have been 
referred to Alstroeemeéria. Salisbury (Hort. Tr., vol.i. p. 337.) gave the 
name Vandesia to this genus, but subsequently to that of Mirbel. — 
G. Penny, A.L.S. 


Art. V. Retrospective Criticism. 


CorreEcTIONS. — In Vol. VII. p. 665. line 33., for “ten miles S.W. of 
Philadelphia” read “three miles S.W. of Philadelphia.” In Vol. VIII. 
p- 152. line 7. from the bottom, for “ Hertford” read “ Hartford.’ In 
Vol. VIIL. p. 153. line 24., for “ Marcetta” read “ Marietta.’— J. MZ. 
Philadelphia, April 19. 1833. 

In Vol. IX. p. 369. line 7., for “it” read “they;” and im line 8., for 
“enumerates ”’ read “ enumerate.” 

A Landscape-Gardenng Impostor.— We have just been informed that 
a person, desirous of employment, advertised in the Leeds Mercury, in 
February, 1832, for business, stating that he was “a scientific landscape- 
gardener, and had had the advantage of having been employed by Mr. 
Loudon for five years, and by four other rural architects in the south.” 
We think it right to state that the person alluded to never was employed 
by us in that capacity. We have also learned that some persons, both 
tradesmen and amateurs, have made use of our name in various ways, to 
forward their own purposes; and we now give notice that the next instance 
of the kind we hear of, we will publish the names of the parties. — Cond. 

Another Item on Gern, the Itinerant Vender of Floral Rarities. (p. 230.) — 
Mr. Greene is a gardener livmg near Newnham, close by Cambridge, 
and does a great deal of business in flower plants. In transacting some 
business with him last Saturday, he asked me if I had been taken in by the 
person who sold Mr. ——— and several others some plants which are 
expected to be worth nothing. Mr. Greene met him by appointment at 
the Black Lion, in Silver Street, where and when, after endeavouring to 
sell him some ranunculuses, &c., he told Mr. Greene that Mr. Loudon, two 
years ago, valued his collection of tulips at 18,0G0/.!! He gave Mr. Greene 
his address as follows : —“ William Gern, Millbank Nursery, Aberdeen.” 
J. D. sen. Waterbeach, near Cambridge, March 20. 1833. 

Acquiring the earhest Information of Improvements in Gardening. —I was 
much pleased with an article in your last (Vol. VIII. p. 645.), on the 
subject of gardeners visiting each other’s gardens in order to improve 
themselves, as well as to make them desirous to equal each other in the 
various productions of the garden ; as it is impossible for any man to keep 
pace with the improvements of the times, if he never stirs out of his own 
premises. There is also another thing which your correspondent has 
overlooked, or has himself been so fortunate as not to feel the dis- 
advantage of, but which, nevertheless, is a disadvantage to which many a 
gardener is subject; I mean, that of not receiving early information of 
things important to be known to them. Many things appear in your 
Magazine which require the gardener’s immediate knowledge of, in order 
to profit by them, without losing a season; yet, so blind are many gentle- 
men to their own interest, that, after its publication, they will keep it for a 
month or two without showing it to their gardeners ; and if you meet with 
some gardeners whose employers take it in, and ask them what they think 


492 Retrospective Criticism. 


of such an article, the answer is, they have not seen it. There are others 
who will grant the privilege of looking over it, but it must be returned as 
soon as possible, to be stuck on the shelves of the library, for no other 
purpose but to be looked at, not into. Thus, the gardener cannot give it 
that attention it demands, and, not having it to refer to as occasion may 
require, he is obliged to make short extracts of what he considers of most 
consequence to him in his situation, or else he must forget it. I would 
therefore recommend to gentlemen, as the cost is so trifling to them, that 
they should purchase an extra-copy, for a present to the gardener; which 
mark of good nature on his part would not fail to produce a good feeling 
in the servant towards his employer. Iam, Sir, yours, &.— A Friend 
to Improvement. Dec. 29. 1832. 
On the fraudulent Practices of Gardening Authors. (p. 116.) — Sir, In 
. 116. Lobserve some remarks upon a communication I had sent you 
(Vol. VIII. p. 289.), exposing the frauds of some writers on horticulture; 
something intended, no doubt, by its author, a Constant Reader, as a 
refutation of what I there have stated, and savouring not a little of that 
asperity which he condemns as forming a leading feature in my paper. Your 
Constant Reader says, that he thinks some other instance than the one I 
chose would have looked more “ charitable and consistent in the eyes of the 
public.’ This is his opinion, and he doubtless deserves the praise of the 
public for his superior taste and discrimination, as well as for his chari- 
tableness and consistency ; but it happens to be only his notion, and nothing 
more; and as every writer has an undoubted right to choose his own 
examples for the illustration of his subject, your Constant Reader has no 
right to dictate; and, of course, we may set this down as a gratuitous and 
very unnecessary advice. Your Constant Reader further accuses me 
boldly of ingratitude. I would ask him how does he come to know this ? 
He cannot tell the particular circumstances under which I was placed, or 
in how far these circumstances were calculated to call forth grateful feel- 
ings from me towards Mr. Stewart. This assertion, so far as he can know, 
is completely his own surmise, and deserves to fall upon his own head. 
He says, also, that I have thrown out “ vile and ungrateful aspersions” 
upon Mr. Stewart’s character. This is a false accusation, in as far as he 
cannot prove, and does not even attempt to prove, that I have said any 
thing untrue of Mr. Stewart; and, by necessity, this assertion must also fall 
to the ground. Your Constant Reader holds up to public notice Mr. 
Stewart’s private character, about which enough might be advanced, with 
a view to throw an air of untruth over my communication: but this is 
aside from the point, and with it the public have nothing to do. The 
grand question I would propose to your Constant Reader is the follow- 
ing, Is there any part of my letter referring to Mr. Stewart untrue? He 
does not say so, and cannot say so: nay, in some of my statements, alias 
“ vile and ungrateful aspersions,” he agrees; but, what 1s more, I can defy 
him, or any other person, to say that what I stated of Mr. Stewart is not 
truth. For what reason, then, is it that I am called so much into question 
by your would-be critic? Is truth a libel ? Can you defame a man’s cha- 
racter by stating what is true of him? Is justice to a deceived public to 
be sacrificed at the shrine of what your Constant Reader would term 
* oratitude or generosity ?”? What did Mr. Stewart publish his paper in 
the Horticultural Transactions for? Was it to benefit the public and. 
posterity to the end of time? If this were his motive, why did he not con- 
tradict his statements as soon as he found them untenable? Your Con- 
stant Reader would have the world cheated by an imposition for ever, and 
that merely, forsooth, because the impostor has become defunct! Away 
with such reasoning. Does your critic really imagine that the interests of 
the living are to be immolated for the sake of the dead? Surely he thinks 


Retrospective Criticism. 493 


so, or else he would not speak so much about his gratitude and generosity. 
Your Constant Reader goes on all the while (and, indeed, it happens to 
be the only ground upon which he could manufacture a criticism) con- 
fidently assuming that I knew of Mr. Stewart’s decease, and took advan- 
tage of this circumstance to asperse his character. He cannot, however, 
know this to be true; and his thus writing about what he knows not to be 
fact, condemns him to his face as not an honest lover of truth and justice. 
Your Constant Reader may assure himself that, if I had known of the 
demise of Mr. Stewart, I should have so modified my language, as would 
have prevented him, or any of his kin, from putting themselves to the 
expense and trouble of a criticism calculated to produce so trifling an 
effect ; but, bemg entirely ignorant of this event, and some hundred miles 
distant from Valleyfield at the time of writing the paper in question, my 
only motive was that of endeavouring to prevent others from practising 
his schemes, knowing they would terminate in disappointment. I am con- 
sequently exempt from the foul charges of ingratitude, &c., which your 
Constant Reader has so generously and gratuitously heaped upon me; 
and these must recoil upon his own head as their originater, until he shall 
prove my paper untrue: then he may criticise with some reasen, but not 
till then. Your Constant Reader further says, that for five years past Mr. 
Stewart has raised excellent pines. This I do not deny; this I never 
denied : but I deny that he ever raised pines, like those mentioned by your 
Constant Reader, in the manner given forth in the Horticultural Trans- 
actions. In conclusion, I have only to say, that I leave you and your 
readers to judge whether the line of conduct I have pursued, or that pre- 
scribed by your Constant Reader, would tend most to the advancement of 
the interests of horticulture or those of its operatives. Iam, Sir, yours, 
&e. — An Enemy to Deceit. Feb. 21. 1833. 

R. Jeffries and Son’s Rebutment of the Insinuations of Mr. Laundy (p.368.), 
on the Correctness and Authenticity of Mr. Snuth’s List of the rarer of their 
Plants, inserted in p. 102. — Sir, We feel ourselves called upon to reply to 
the criticisms of Mr. H. Laundy, inserted in p. 368., upon the list of the 
rarer of the plants cultivated by us, and inserted by you in p. 102. It is 
our opinion, opposed to that of Mr. Laundy, that such lists do deserve a 
place in your pages, upon the ground of “ public usefulness.” We should, 
and we haye no doubt that many others would, like to see such lists in- 
troduced more frequently than they have been; for we, your subscribers, 
should then know where to apply when we wanted any particular plant or 
plants; but, as the case has been, we have, when gentlemen, their gar- 
deners, or brother nurserymen, may have wanted some new or rare plants, 
sometimes been under the necessity of making application to different 
nurseries before our object could be attamed, and this at an outlay, for 
the postage of letters and for other expenses, frequently equal in amount 
to the price of the plant sought for. Surely the removal ef such an evil 
would be of “public usefulness.” As to whether such lists are sent by the 
parties possessing the plants, or by a visiter, we cannot conceive that it can 
make any material difference, provided they are in every respect correct; 
but, judging from the suspicious insinuations of Mr. Laundy, it appears to 
us that he doubts both the correctness and the authenticity of that list. 
We beg leave, however, to inform him, that it contamed a correct state- 
ment, and that there 1s not a plant named therein but such as was at that 
time in our possession ; and although some of them were rare and difficult 
to be procured, and consequently our stock of them might not be very 
great, still, by any person of common understanding it must have been sup- 
posed that we should in a short time be able to supply our friends with 
them. As to the authenticity of the list in question, we most positively 
affirm that it was truly given; that it was wholly the production of Mr. 


494 etrospective Criticism. 


Smith, whose name it bears; and that it was done by him without any 
solicitation on our part. And further, if we had possessed the smallest 
desire to see our collection puffed up bey ond its natural height, and for 
that purpose had employed a hireling, Mr. Smith would have ‘been one of 
the last persons to whom we should have made an application. From 
knowing, as we do, something of the cool but determined independence of 
his disposition, we shall feel somewhat surprised if even Mr, Laundy him- 
self do not in future pause before he ventures his suspicions concerning 
him. Respecting the statement of Mr, Laundy, that Mr. Smith is a man 
not possessing any knowledge of plants, we at once declare such statement 
to be the result of ignorance concerning him, or otherwise a gross libel 
upon his character. Judge you, Sir, whether a man active both in body 
and mind, who has been under the instruction of some very excellent 
cultivators, and has subsequently had the management of a good general 
collection for nearly 20 years, and, withal, possessing a love of plants, — 
judge you, we say, whether such a man is likely to be without any know- 
ledge of them. The fact, Sir, is, that Mr. Smith, instead of being un- 
acquainted with plants, has shown himself preeminently skilful in the 
cultivation of them; and of this fact Mr. Laundy himself cannot possibly 
be ignorant. — R. Jeffries and Son, Nurserymen. Ipswich, Suffolk, June 24. 
1833. 

Mr, Smith’s Reply to Mr, Laundy’s Remarks on the Lists of the rarer Plants 
grown by R. Jeffries and Son, which Mr, Smith had communicated, and which 
as published in p. 102.— Sir, In reference to the lists of plants grown in 
provincial nurseries, and especially to that supplied by me of the rarer 
plants of Messrs. Jefiries and Son, inserted in p. 102., H. Laundy “thinks” 
(p. 368.) that these lists do not deserve a place in your valuable pages, on 
the ground of public usefulness, unless they contain plants that are rare and 
difficult to be procured.” I, however, am of a contrary opinion; for “I 
think ” that there are a great many plants which are neither “ rare nor dif- 
ficult to be procured,” which are not so generally grown as their excellence 
would seem to justify; and I also “think” that H. Laundy cannot deny 
that this is the fact. In case, however, he should make an attempt to do so, 
I would provisionally ask, whether, from the numerous plants which might 
be named, Magnolia conspicua, Chimonanthus fragrans, Wistaria Conse- 
quana, Thunbérgia alata, and Quisqualis indica, are not species which justify 
my opinion? or whether they are cultivated to one tenth of the extent to 
which they deserve to be? and also whether such deficiencies do not arise 
more from want of information as to whence they may be obtained, than 
from the circumstance of their being either “rare” or “ difficult to be pro- 
cured”’ ? H. Laundy proceeds, and adds, “ and unless all those enumerated 
are not only possessed by the party contributing the list,” (this is, indeed, 
prettily stated ; for it implies that honour and accuracy in one man are not 
equal to honour and accuracy in another : the following, however, is super- 
lative,) but possessed by them in sufficient quantity for sale.’ Query, 
Who is there but knows that when a nurseryman procures a rare plant, 
it is in the intention therefrom to supply every applicant, although im 
some cases he may not be able to do this in the first instance. H. Laundy 
farther states that “ such lists, too, would appear with a better face if 
they came directly and professedly from the interested party, as their 
doing so would cast the responsibility for their accuracy on this party.” 
— He adds, “I may venture my suspicion that Mr. Smith’s name is insuffi- 
cient to veil the real actor; Mr. Smith being a man not professing any ac- 
quaintance with plants, although a very creditable kitchen-gardener. ” 
With respect to the first part of this sentence, be it known and remembered 
that my name was not given for the above purpose, but for that of supply- 
ing the readers of the list in question with its authenticity; and I not only 


Retrospective Criticism. 495 


recognise it, in every particular, as my own production, but I also consider 
myself to be its rightful respondent. And I wish farther to state, that I 
never was a party in such a matter as the above, and in the manner hinted 
at by H. Laundy, with any man, nor will I ever be, whether such man be 
prince or whether he be peasant As for that part of the sentence which says, 
«Mr. Smith being a man not professing any knowledge of plants,’ I de- 
clare that it is void of the least particle of truth. Ifhe had declared me to 
be a man not professing to possess a good systematical knowledge of bo- 
tany, he would have stated the truth; but his statement that I do not 
profess any knowledge of plants I positively deny. Believing that these 
lists (when considerately introduced) lead to enquiry concerning the plants 
which are enumerated in them, and that such enquiry produces the desire 
of having the plants in possession, I hope that, by whomsoever they may 
be composed or authenticated, they may be frequently inserted in “ your 
valuable pages,” that, being thereby extensively circulated, they may become 
subjects possessing great “ public usefulness.” I am, Sir, “ your con- 
stant’ and one of your earliest subscribers, — John Smith. Whitton Road, 
Ipswich, June 18. 1833. 

The Seeds of Pinus sent (Vol. VI. p. 212.) by M. Hartweg as Seeds of 
the Pinus resindsa Aiton were not Seeds of this Species, but Seeds of the 
Pinus caramanica of Bosc.— Sir, On the subject of pine trees, I shall 
point out to you what I think an error in the opinion of M. Hartweg of 
Carlsruhe, as expressed in an extract from a letter from him, which has 
been inserted in Vol. VI. p. 212. He informs you that the Pinus resinosa 
of Aiton, or Pinus rubra of Michaux, exists in a certain quantity in the 
Hartwald in Leimerslachle ; and he mentions some dried seed of it, which 
you have received and distributed. Greatly interested in this article, I 
wrote to M. Hartweg to ask him to send me a branch with cones of this 
species, which he had the kindness to do: but this specimen, instead of 
belonging to Pinus resinosa, evidently appeared to me a European and 
Asiatic pine, still but little known (approaching very near to Laricio de 
Corse, P. Laricio or altissima), and which Bosc has named Pinus carama- 
nica. This pine is not generally admitted by botanists as a species; the 
greater number make it only a variety of P. Laricio, in which, I think, 
they are botanically correct: but this variety is, however, quite distinct by 
its vegetation, and probably by its qualities. Henceforward, it ought to 
be distinguished from the species by foresters. On the whole, M. Hart- 
weg has probably made you a more valuable present than if he had sent 
you the true P. resindsa; but his notice, as to historical information, is 
erroneous ; and, in order that the trees produced from this seed may not 
be established in England under a false name, it will be advisable for you 
to warn your friends, to whom you have distributed the seeds, that the 
plants produced from them are not the true P. resindsa, but P. cara- 
manica. 

I shall take this opportunity of speaking to you again of our P. Laricio, 
the giant, and probably the finest, of the pines of Europe; the multipli- 
cation of which you ought to insist on in England, where it is still, I 
believe, very rare. It is quite hardy, succeeds as well by sowing on the 
spot as the Scotch pine (P. sylvéstris), and may be regarded as one of the 
most precious forest species. We multiply it very much now in France; 
and I have myself sown, on my property of Barres, more than 12 arpens 
(about 15 acres English). Iam, Sir, yours, &c. — WM. Vilmorin. Paris, 
May 21. 1833. 

What Plant is fitter for Hedges than the Hawthorn? asks Mr. Cheeks. 
(Vol. VIII. p. 738.) I think with J. D. (p. 738.) that it would be not 
easy to find one better adapted for the purpose. By the by, I heard 


. . ? 
some time back, in London, of 


4.96 Retrospective Criticism. 


A Species of Hawthorn from South America, similar to the British Kind, 
only an Evergreen. —If I can lay hold of it, I will certainly give it a trial ; 
and, meantime, should be glad of information thereon from any one who 
may have fallen in with it. — Samuel Taylor. Stoke Ferry, Norfolk, Jan. 21. 
1833. 

The Sufficiency of the Hawthorn for the Production of lwe Fences ; and a 
Notice of some Experiments made to ascertain if the Germination of its Seeds 
can be artificially expedited. — Sir, Mr. Cheeks complains (Vol. VIII. 
p- 738.) of the hawthorn as a plant ill adapted for the formation of hedges, 
and enquires whether some other plants better suited to the purpose might 
not be substituted in its room. The hawthorn, like most other plants, may 
probably not grow, or at least not thrive, in certain soils and situations, 
and under peculiar circumstances ; but, in a general way, it may be con- 
sidered exceedingly well adapted to the purpose; and I greatly doubt 
whether any other plant more universally suitable can be found. It surely 
forms, when properly treated, a most excellent live fence *, by no means 
“ defective [as your correspondent complains] in its resistance of cattle;”’ 
nor is it, under favourable circumstances, a plant of slow growth. Some 
seedlings, which came up spontaneously in a newly made flower-border in 
my garden in the spring of 1832, grew, in the course of the same season, 
to the height of 7in., Sin., and 9in., or more; and are now (April, 
1833) quite strong enough to "plant out as quicksets for fencing: although, 
in the case of this being done, it would be better to transplant them in 
January than so late in the season as the present time. One seedling, 
indeed, in the same border, attained the height of 1 ft. 11 in.; but this I 
consider an extraordinary instance; and I could scarcely have believed the 
plant to be only of one year’s growth, were I not certain that it cannot be 
older, from the circumstance of the border itself having been formed only 
in November, 1831; when the soil was entirely taken out to a consider- 
able depth, and replaced by a fresh compost of decayed leaves, &c. It is 
sometimes facetiously or sarcastically said, that it is time enough to think 
of sowing your haws when the enclosure bill has passed the two houses of 
parliament. This remark must not be taken too literally, being intended, 
no doubt, merely as a gentle satire on surveyors and commissioners of en- 
closure, on account of their occasional dilatoriness in putting in force the 
provisions of an act of parliament, and the delays which occur in appor- 
tioning the common lands among the respective proprietors. The great 
drawback against raising hawthorn for fencing is, not so much the slow- 
ness of the growth of the plant, as the length of time which the seeds lie 
in the ground before they vegetate. The haws are to be gathered in the 
autumn, or early part of winter; and then, as J. D. has observed 
(Vol. VIII. p. 738.), “are buried together in a pit or burrow, where they 
lie till the beginning of February in the second spring following.’ They 
are then taken out to be sown, and some of them (not all) will come up 
in the spring (say March or April) ; but full half or more of the haws 
sown in February will lie in the ground even another year, not vegetating 
till the March or April twelvemonth ; and a few are sometimes known to 
remain another year still. So that, if a quantity of quick is required to 
be raised by a given time, it must be thought of and provided for some 
four or five or more years beforehand: and this is no slight tax on human 
forecast. Occasionally, too, it may so happen that there is an almost 
entire failure in the crop of haws, just when they are wanted: a circum- 
stance which, of course, will protract the business, and cause another 


* « Meéspilus Oxyacantha, frutex ad sepes vivas preestantissimus.” Smith, 
in Flora Britannica, p. 530. — J. D. 


Retrospective Criticism. 497 


year’s delay. In short, so tedious is the process of getting the young 
quick fairly above ground, that, if any method could be devised which 
would accelerate the vegetation of the haws, and cause them to come up 
the first spring after they are ripened, it would, indeed, be a valuable 
and important discovery.* With this view, I made several experiments a 
few years ago; and, though they were all unsuccessful, it may not be 
entirely useless here to detail the particulars, as such recorded instances 
of failure may, at least, prevent a repetition of the same fruitless experi- 
ments; and may, perhaps,-lead to the institution of others which may 
prove more successful. I had heard (like J. D.), and often, that haws 
which had passed through turkeys or other birds would germinate more 
quickly, in consequence of having been submitted to the heat and action 
of the bird’s stomach. I was told, too (though this appeared improbable), 
that it was the pulp or flesh of the haws that retarded their vegetation. 
Accordingly, late in the autumn of 1830, [had a quantity of haws gathered, 
which I treated in the following ways : — 

Experiment 1. (Nov. 13. 1830.) I almost entirely deprived the haws of 
their pulp, by squeezing them and rubbing them together by hand, with a 
little sand. Scalding water was then poured over them, and they were 
left to soak. The scalding was repeated on Nov. 15., and half of them 
sown the same day; the remainder set by in a jar. 

Exp. 2. (Nov. 15.) The haws were simply scalded, without having 
been bruised or deprived of their pulp; and scalded again the next day. 
Part were sown on Nov. 17., and the rest set by. 

Ewp. 3. (Nov. 16.) The haws were treated in the same way as in 
Experiment 1., except that they were soaked in warm (not scalding) 
water. Part sown on Novy. 17., and the rest set by. 

Of each of the reserved portions of the haws thus treated, a small 
quantity was sown respectively in three large pots, about the 12th of Feb., 
and the pots plunged in the hot-bed. The remainder sown in separate 
beds, in the open ground, on Feb. 22. 

None of the haws, however (as already hinted), vegetated till the spring 
of 1832, when they all produced fair crops. No material difference was 
observable between such as had been sown in autumn, in spring, or in pots 
in the hot-bed ; but, in each case, those produced decidedly the thickest 
crop which had been treated in the manner of Experiment 3., i. e. such 
as had been deprived of their pulp, and soaked in warm (not scalding) 
water. And I may add, that, in the spring-sown bed of these last haws, 
many did not germinate till the present spring (1833), and are only now 
making their appearance above ground. 

From the above experiments, I am led to conclude (as, indeed, would, 
a priori, seem probable), that what retards the vegetation of the seed is 
not the pulp of the haw, but the hardness and durability of the shell. 
And could any chemical process or mechanical operation be devised by 
which the shell might be dissolved or broken, without injury to the kernel 
within, I conceive that, in this case, the haws would germinate the first 
year. Ihave to apologise for troubling you with such a dry detail of 
unsuccessful experiments ; but the subject 1s worthy of attention : and the 
present discussion may, perhaps, serve to stimulate further enquiry. I am, 
Sir, yours, &c.— W. T’. Bree. Allesley Rectory, April 22. 1833. 

Mr. Seymour in reply to Mr. Heyward’s Strictures (Vol. VIII. p. 654.) 
on Mr. Seymour’s Mode of Training. — Sir, I feel sorry to have to encroach 
again upon the pages of your valuable publication with the present paper, 


* Would not this form a fit subject for a prize to be offered by our 
horticultural and agricultural societies ? 


Vou. [X,—No, 45. K K 


498 Retrospective Criticism. 


in vindication of our method of training the peach and nectarine trees ; 
but the manner in which Mr. Hayward has treated it calls for a reply, 
which I shall endeavour to give as concisely as possible. In Vol. VIII. 

. 654. fig. 124., Mr. Hayward has given a drawing, considerably more like 

. N. B.’s pear trees (Vol. II. p. 262.) than my father’s peach trees 
in the same volume (p. 296.). Mr. Hayward charges us with losing an 
angle of 45° at the bottom of the wall; but I am at a loss to know where 
he finds his grounds for such observations, for our tree has its lower 
branches nearly horizontal. We certainly, while a tree is young, give it a 
considerable elevation, to promote an equal distribution of sap; but, as 
soon as we find the tree sufficiently strong in its lower branches, these are 
thrown down to a line horizontal with the base. Mr. Hayward has endea- 
voured to make our method conformable to his 7th rule, by placing the 
leading branches at an angle of 45°; to which rule we have no pretensions, 
for our leading branches pass through all the degrees of the quadrant, from 
the horizontal to the perpendicular. But I beg to inform Mr. Hayward, 
that the plan which we adopt to produce an equal distribution of sap is, to 
to increase the number of our secondary leaders as the main leaders 
advance in elevation and increase in strength. By these means, we con- 
siderably shorten the stem of our trees, and keep that command over 
them which enables us to reform them should we lose a branch by any 
accident; for, in that case, we have only to loosen the tree, above the 
failure, and bring the branches down. There is generally sufficient wood 
in the centre to supply the deficiency ; but, ifnot, we have only to lay the 
leading branches a little more distant from each other. Mr. Hayward 
supposes that we may have gained some information from his works on 
horticulture; but I can assure him, that neither my father nor I have ever 
seen any of his writings but what have appeared in the Encyclopedia of 
Gardenimg and in this Magazine. I am, Sir, yours, &e.—Wilkam Seymour. 
Palace Gardens, Bishopthorpe, July 4, 1833. 

Facts on the Aicidium cancellatum Sowerby ; its Germination supposed to 
occur on Leaves while these are enfolded in the Buds of Trees ; and a Sugges- 
tion for extirpating the AX cidium.— Sir, Much has been written in your 
Magazine respecting mildew and blight ; and in Vol. VIII. p. 738, 739., are 
queries on that destructive parasitic fungus Aicidium cancellatum. I think 
any one that is in possession of any facts reiative to it, be they ever so few, 
cannot be justified in withholding them from his fellow-men. Impressed with 
this feeling, I send you a few observations which I have made on it. The 
Aicidium cancellatum first makes its appearance, discernibly to the naked 
eye, as soon as the leaves have expanded themselves, in the form of little 
red spots on the upper surface of the leaf, as Mr. Merrick has described in 
Vol. [X. p.333. Question, Has not the fungus been growing ever since the 
leaves began to protrude from the scales that enclose them in the unex- 
panded state? or how could the fungus attain the size to be visible at a 
distance from the trees on which it is growing, by the time the leaves have 
become expanded? This appears to me very likely to be the case, as the 
fungus is nearly three months from this time before it arrives at maturity ; 
consequently, it is not one of those species of fungus which require only 
twenty-four hours from the first springing of the plant to the ripening of 
its seed. From red it changes to a bright orange; and, when examined 
with a microscope, is found to contain a number of dark spots, rising a 
little from the surface of the leaf, and covered with a honey-like sub- 
stance. I have also observed drops on the leaves, that seemed to proceed 
from the orangy blotches; and these, when the tongue is applied to them, 
have a sweet flavour. This I have observed to take place on the upper 
surface of the leaf, before the pale brown, teat-like, miniature bags (peri- 
dia) are projected from the woody excrescences on the under side. 

With respect to the question by J. D. (Vol. IX. p. 332.), by virtue of 


Queries and Answers. 499 


my observations, so far as they have yet been extended, I answer affirm- 
atively, that “all the individual plants of any one species of any genus, to 
which species a certain species of fungus is peculiar, are soil equally eli- 
gible, whatever be their condition of health, for the seeds of that fungus 
to germinate in or upon, and for the plants arising from these seeds to 
thrive in or upon, and be nourished by ;” for I have known the parasitic 
fungi to thrive on plants in the full vigour of health equally well with 
those on trees in a decayed state. The observations which I have made 
on the Acidium cancellatum have led me to differ in opinion from the 
idea which is advanced in Vol. LX. p.331.: as I have only found it on 
leaves that expand from the buds which were formed in the previous year ; 
and that, when the spring shoot is taken within three or four buds of its 
base, the leaves of the second, or midsummer, shoot (as it is termed by 
gardeners ; that 1s, the shoot produced from the buds of the spring shoot) 
are entirely free from fungi. If the seeds of fungi be sucked up by the 
spongioles, why are not the leaves of the second shoot infected with it ? 
These are facts which lead me to believe that, when the A®cidium has 
grown to maturity, and sheds its seeds, they drop between the scales of 
the buds which enclose the leaves in embryo; and is it not probable that 
their minuteness enables them to enter the pores of the leaves, and ger- 
minate in them, before these are protruded from the bud and expanded ? 
I would, therefore, suggest to those who are troubled with this formidable 
parasite, to wash their trees with caustic lime-water, adding a little salt, as 
soon as the leaves are fallen in the autumn, and when-the trees are dry; 
and to repeat the washing two or three times. If the lime be left to settle, 
the lime-water will not discolour a wall. Iam, Sir, yours, &c.— John 
Jennings. Shipstone on Stour, Worcestershire, June 28. 1833. 

The explanations in p. 329. of the cut in the same page, which exhibits 
the progressive stages of growth and the structure of the A‘cidium can- 
cellatum, are lessened in clearness by the alphabetic sequence of the letters 
of reference to which the explanations are affixed: the course of the 
fAicidium’s growth will be learned by reading the explanations in this 
order: — a, c, b, d, ff, ee.— J. D. 


Art. VI. Queries and Answers. 


THE Effects of Terrestrial Radiation on the Processes of Vegetation. 
(p. 287.) — Sir, Every one engaged in the cultivation of plants, whether 
in the garden or in the fields, must feel interested in the remarks presented 
by your correspondent, J. Murray, Esq., on “ the effects of terrestrial 
radiation on the processes of vegetation.” Much of the success of both 
the gardener and farmer depends on meteoric agency and atmospheric 
influences; and, though both these cultivators may know by experience 
which are the best sites or aspects for their gardens or fields, yet it is per- 
fectly true they cannot always explain the cause of their preference; or 
give real reasons why one situation is-better than another, or why the level 
bottom of a valley is less suitable for a garden or field than the sloping 
side of a hill. If the man in search of scientific information turns to the 
article Meteorology in any encyclopeedia, he will find that the lower tem= 
perature of a valley is ascribed, by one, to an excess of radiation; by 
another, to the greater evaporation; and, by a third, to an accumulation 
of the coldest air, which has descended down the sloped brows of the high 
ground, and settles on the lowest places. I shall not venture to give an 
opinion respecting these different notions; but, seeking information, shall, 
with your leave, describe a certain locality, with the meteorological circum- 
stances experienced upon it; and ask the opinion of Mr. Murray, or of 

KK 2 


500 Querics and Answers. 


any other correspondent, to account for the phenomena which I shall pro- 
ceed to detail. 

In the parish of Great Missenden, in the county of Buckingham, and 
on the south-eastern slope of the Chiltern range of chalk hills which inter- 
sects the county, rises the Missburne stream : it runs in a southerly direc- 
tion along a winding valley of about fifteen miles in length, and falls into 
the river Colne at Denham. In its course, it works the mills at Amers- 
ham, Chalfont St. Giles, Chalfont St. Peter, Oakend, and Denham. It is 
liable to fail in summer; and, what is remarkable, the mills nearest its 
source, and those nearest its junction with the Colne, are often in full 
work when the intermediate mills are standing still. This is owing to the 
greater portion of the water sinking beneath the base of the chalk form- 
ation about a mile below the town of Amersham, and rising again, by 
numerous springs, in the valley, about a mile below the village of Chalfont 
St. Peter. At the spot where the springs burst forth, the valley is con- 
tracted, the level bottom being only about a quarter of a mile wide. The 
brows on each side rise somewhat abruptly: that on the west side, to the 
height of 103 ft., while the opposite side is about 10 ft. lower. At all 
seasons, a copious exhalation, or rather evaporation, fills the valley to 
the height of between 50 ft. and 60 ft. above the level of the stream at 
this place: often quite visible in frosty weather; and sensibly felt during 
summer, by reason of the difference of temperature in passing down to, 
or rising from, the bottom of the valley; the heat within the body of 
vapour being always from 7° to 10° lower than the superincumbent clear air 
above. The heat of the soil in the bottom of the valley, at 1 ft. beneath the 
surface, is never lower than about 40° of Fahrenheit ; and increases hizher 
and higher the deeper an excavation is made. The water in the stream is 
never frozen, even when the thermometer stands at zero in the open air. 
The temperature of the soil, on the top of the banks at the same depth, 
varies according to that of the air, but is generally a few degrees higher in 
winter; and, like that in the valley, many degrees colder in summer. 
During the heat of the latter season, vegetation is most luxuriant, and 
dews are most copious in the valley; but the plants are tender, both the 
flowers of fruit trees, and the foliage of common shrubs, being frequently 
destroyed by spring frosts. On the higher ground on each side, the con- 
trary of all this is seen: plants grow slowly, but they are har dy; dews are 
less frequent, and compar atively light ; and, while potatoes, French beans, 
shoots of asparagus, &c., are destroyed in the valley, no such effects are 
experienced on the hill. 

I have been rather particular in detailing the circumstances of the 
place, and the effects of weather on vegetation, in order that Mr. Murray 
may be enabled to explain to us the causes of the effects above stated, 
and to what we should ascribe the lower temperature of the valley: whe- 
ther to evaporation, radiation, or to chilled air which has slid down from 
the high grounds above. 

I would only beg to observe, that radiation from subterranean heat 
should not be forgotten in this enquiry, as it is probably owing to this that 
the dews and evaporation of the valley of the Missburne are so abundant. 
Tam, Sir, yours, &c. — Querist. July, 1833. 

Technical Terms in Horticultural Chemistry, and a Test for detecting the 
Oxide of Iron in Soils. (Vol. VIII. p. 735.) — Sir, Your worthy corre- 
spondent, Mr. Taylor (Vol. VIII. p. 735.), wishes “some of your learned 
correspondents would insert in your Magazine a list of the chemical terms 
relating to horticulture, which are not found in an English dictionary, and 
with their proper accentuation.”” Such a contribution, he thinks, would be 
useful to such as are not acquainted with the learned languages. No one 
can deny, and it gives me pleasure to see, that you do every thing in your 
power to impress it upon the minds of your readers, that a knowledge of 


Queries and Answers. 501 


science is becoming every day more indispensable to the gardener who aims 
at any thing above that of being an empirical practitioner ; and particularly 
a knowledge of chemical philosophy; as, without an acquaintance with the 
principles of this science, it is impossible for him to reach any thing like 
perfection in those branches of natural history which he is obliged to study ; 
and without its assistance all his endeavours at improvement and discovery 
are founded upon the weakest of all foundations. It is chemistry which 
gives us the rationale of every operation of the gardener; and to this 
source does the enlightened mind look for improved methods of practice to 
arise. Although the principles of this science are of such vast importance 
to gardeners, and, in a particular manner, to the young of the profession ; 
yet it is a fact, notwithstanding all that has been said about it in your 
Magazine, that many are not aware of this, while as many scout the idea 
altogether ; and others who would study it have not the opportunity to do 
so. The absence of institutions for the gardeners, similar to those now in 
every town of any note for mechanics, and the impossibility of young 
gardeners (from distance, and other circumstances, which I have endea- 
voured to show you in a former letter, p. 173.) attending these, will soon 
place gardeners, as a body, far behind the mechanics in intelligence. . This 
idea, to those who have the advancement of horticulture at heart, is far 
from being a pleasant one; and to the young gardener, whose opportunities 
for improvement are by far too scanty in general, it may act as a drawback 
to his advancement in knowledge: but this ought not to be the case; for 
he should know that, now-a-days, when the competition is so great, he may 
as well, and, indeed, much better, give up the business entirely, than 
attempt to proceed without that indispensable requisite, a good education. 
But to return to your correspondent. He desires a knowledge of the 
chemical terms used in horticulture; but he, perhaps, is not aware that it 
is impossible to possess any adequate idea of the meaning of these terms, 
so as to render them useful, without detailing suitable explanatory experi- 
ments ; and, even then, without seeing the experiments actually performed, 
together with a possession of a general knowledge of the science of che- 
mistry, they would be of very little utility, and would occupy a portion of 
your Magazine which might be filled with more valuable matter. And 
this request is rendered the more unnecessary, when we consider the num- 
ber of minor publications in this science issued at the present day; 
some of them well calculated for the purpose for which they were written, 
although your learned correspondent, Mr. Mallet (Vol. IX. p. 122.), 
appears to think the contrary. There are two publications which I would 
particularly recommend to young gardeners, as upon their acquirements 
depends the future advancement of our profession. The first, which is the 
cheapest, is Griffin’s Chemical Recreations, containing the first lines of the 
science, and a detail of a number of very cheap and instructive experi- 
ments : the second is Fife’s Manual of Chemistry ; a work admirably suited 
to the wants of the young gardener. Both of these works have been com- 
piled for the sake of mechanics; and, of course, the technicalities of the 
science are sufficiently illustrated. 

Every one who intends studying chemistry should be aware of the 
necessity of experimenting for himself. By reading, he can, at the most, 
only be a smatterer; and one experiment, carefully conducted, and the 
rationale of the action reasoned upon, will teach him more of this science 
than the perusal of many volumes. The question here may very naturally 
occur, How can the young gardener, who has to combat so many difficul- 
ties, procure apparatus and materials to experiment with ? This, I confess, 
is a powerful obstacle to be overcome, and, in many cases, will prove 
insurmountable; yet, notwithstanding, a person with a little invention and 
perseverance may prove many of the general principles with very trifling: 

KK 3 ' 


502 Queries and Answers. 


apparatus, and at little expense. For instance, the law of chemical attrac- 
tion, and the chemical and mechanical properties of the gases, &c., may be 
proved at a very small cost. Oxygen may be procured sufficiently pure, by 
placing a bell-glass in water, and introducing some leaves; then exposing 
them to sunshine, and removing them as soon as faded, or before night. 
This procured, its properties can be examined. Sulphur, phosphorus, &c., 
may be burned in it, and acids formed, &c. Hydrogen gas may be procured 
by putting diluted sulphuric acid upon zinc or iron filings into a Florence 
flask, furnished with a bent tin tube. During the action caused by the dis- 
engagement of the gas, an example of single elective affinity may be 
observed. Its great lightness, and, by mixing it with about a third of 
atmospheric air, its explosive properties, may be ascertained, &c. The 
residue may be filtered, evaporated, and crystallised ; and may be used with 
nut galls in making ink, and in numerous other experiments. Carbonic 
acid gas may be easily obtained from lime, chalk, shells of fish, &c., by the 
addition of any of the more potent acids: its properties may be also exa- 
mined. In fact, where there is a willing mind, combined with perseverance, 
more may be done than we might anticipate. 

Mr. Taylor farther asks, “ What is the simplest test for detecting the 
oxide of iron in soils and subsoils ?”’ In answer, I would state, that, for 
any of the salts of iron, an infusion of nut galls, of tea, or of any other 
vegetable containing a quantity of astringent matter, will detect it. These 
form a black precipitate with all the salts of iron; but, if the iron or 
astringent matter is in minute quantities, a black colour will only be given 
to the solution. This black precipitate is a compound of the astringent 
principle of the vegetable and the oxide of iron. Prussiate of potass forms 
a beautiful blue precipitate with some of the salts of iron. I would here 
caution your querist from making any inferences from empirical analyses; as 
bodies composed of the same elemental parts, but joining in different de- 
finite proportions, form very different substances, and, of course, possess 
very distinct properties. As analysis is the most intricate part of practical 
chemistry, and requires a degree of discrimination and nice manipulation, 
combined with a thorough knowledge of the science, which cannot be 
expected from a working gardener, it would, perhaps, be better, before any 
deductions are made, to have the soil analysed by a neighbouring chemist, 
as you have, J think, somewhere recommended. I am, Sir, yours, &c. — 
Ephebicus Horticultor. Peeblesshire, Feb. 21. 1833. 

Whitehill, the seat of Isaac Cookson, Esq., near Durham, we are in- 
formed, is one of the neatest kept places in England, and one where the 
journeymen are remarkably well treated. Will the gardener there, or any 
of our readers, give us a description of the place, and of the mode of 
garden management ? — Cond. 

Wild Plants declare the Quality of the Soils in which they flourish. — A 
knowledge of the habitat of plants is of so much importance, that I am sur- 
prised the hint given under the head “ Soil,’ in Dr. Willich’s Domestic 
Eincyclopedia, has not been adopted. He says, “ if an accurate geogra- 
phical catalogue of such vegetables as grow 1 particular situations were 
published in every country, it would be of great service in ascertaining 
the degree of fertility, as well as the nature, of the different soils. — 
C. M.W. March 12. 1833. 

Plane Trees. (p. 379.) — In relation, I must not say in answer, to Mr. 
Rutger’s question in p. 379. on plane trees, I may state that trees of the 
western plane (Platanus occidentalis Z.) are not rare close around London, 
and some grow actually in it, as in Piccadilly, in some of the squares, &c. : 
those I have seen both around and in London seem thriving and well- 
conditioned. I once had to plant, and did plant, some fine young western 
plane trees into a heavy, even partially clayey, loam, in a low meadow 
through which watercourses ran, and still run; and where the soil, from 


Queries and Answers. 508 


the watercourses, and the low situation of the meadow, was and is always 
moist, except for three months or so in summer. In this soil there are in 
places numerous pebbles, which have probably been at some time con- 
veyed to their present places, as a means of filling up hollows which local 
circumstances declare once existed there: bullocks’ horns, too, have been 
found in some small number. Well, in this situation (‘“‘ No man’s Mea- 
dow,” at the foot of the old botanic garden, at Bury St. Edmunds), the 
fine young plane trees, planted in about 1825, grew flourishingly up to 
1830, since which time, from a change of residence, I have not had an 
opportunity to observe them. — J. D. 

Cure of Canker in young Fruit Trees. (Vol. VIII. p. 696.) — Sir, Allow 
me to thank Mr. Charles Lawrence of Cirencester, for his communication 
(Vol. VIII. p. 696.) on the canker in young fruit trees; the benefits of 
which I hope to avail myself of, in a recently planted orchard of dwarf 
trees, which, I am sorry to say, already show symptoms of this hateful dis- 
ease. My only objection to the system of heading down and new-grafting, 
recommended by your correspondent, is the retrograde movement one 
seems thus to make: but perhaps this is more ideal than rational: for, if 
the trees must ultimately suffer from the disease, it is better to get rid of 
the old branches at once, and take the chance of what new ones may do. 
Of one thing, though, I should wish to be assured before entering too largely 
into this system of decapitation ; viz., that the new wood is bearing wood; 
for, though vigorous and healthy, it may not produce much fruit.. At all 
events, the suggestion deserves attention; and I, for one, feel thankful for 
it.—- Samuel Taylor. Stoke Ferry, Norfolk, Jan. 21. 1833. 

Is the Gravenstein Apple a Dessert or a Kitchen Apple? —\n Lindley’s 
Guide to the Orchard and Kitchen Garden, p. 71., it is described as a dessert 
apple, that will keep till April and May, and that may be reckoned a rival 
to our Ribston pippin. In the London Horticultural Society's Catalogue, 
2d edition, p. 15. it is described as as a kitchen apple, in use from October 
to December. Which of these two statements is the true one? — MW. Saul. 
Lancaster, June 17. 1833. 

The Gravenstein Apple may be used either as a dessert or kitchen 
apple. Its chief merit, however, consists in being an excellent rich sauce 
apple; some, indeed, prefer it as a dessert fruit, but it is not generally 
esteemed as such. ‘The season, in this country, is found to be from Oc- 
tober till December. In the Horticultural Transactions, vol. iv. p. 216., 
where the first account of it in English is to be met with, it is stated to 
keep till April. In Sickler’s Teutsche Obstgartner, vol. xxi. p. 119., it is 
said, when well kept, to remain good till April or May. Such may have 
been the case in some parts of the Continent where they have a dry air, 
and a steady cold, throughout the winter; but, in the varying climate of 
this country, it will not keep beyond Christmas, without extraordinary 
attention. In Diel’s Pom. vol. vil. p. 8., it is said to be a good apple for 
eating raw, as well as for kitchen use. Ripe the end of October, and by 
Christmas its flavour fades. In the Hort. Trans. vol. iv. p. 523., where 
there is an excellent figure of it, it is stated that “it does not keep well 
beyond the end of November.” — Robert Thompson. Chiswick Garden, 
July 11. 1833. 

Knevelt’s Seedling Pine Strawberry.— A small basket of this fruit was 
exhibited at the Horticultural Society’s June exhibition: and so much 
were they approved of, that both Mr. Munro and ourselves have had letters 
of enquiry on the subject. In order to give a satisfactory answer, through 
this Magazine, Mr. Munro called on Mr. Knevett, and the following is the 
result : — 

“ T called at Mr. Knevett’s garden myself, in order that I might see this 
strawberry growing, as I have no great faith in samples of fruit gathered, 

KK 4+ 


504: Queries and Answers. 


and made the best of, for show; but, to my great surprise, I found that 
the sample shown at our meeting was nothing to what it might have been. 
The quantity of fruit on each plant was far beyond any thing that I have 
ever seen before, and I have no hesitation in saying that it is the finest 
Strawberry now in cultivation. — D. MM. Hort. Soc. Garden, July 15, 1833. 

Fingers and Toes on Turnips.( Vol. VIIL. p. 498.) —J. M. says, the insect 
causing these malformations is called, by entomologists, Nédyus contractor. 
Now, Professor Rennie writes, in Insect Architecture (p. 389.), that it is 
probable these may be the larve of a weevil (Curculio contractus, and 
Rhynche‘nus assimilis, &c.); then, in Insect Transformations (p. 218.), 
Nédyus contractor (a root weevil). May Iask J. M., or any other cor- 
respondent, if these are all names for one poor insect, heaped upon it by 
the learned, to deter us from prying too far into the secrets of nature? If 
not, which is the right name, or true insect? Perhaps some one may 
favour us with a cut, as it does not yet appear to be generally known ; and 
a little more of its history than the professor gives will be very acceptable 
to me and to many more. 

To free the soil of the insect causing fingers and toes, will J. M. say how 
the soapsuds are applied (Vol. VIII. p. 498.); the quantity, and expense, 
and what other alkaline substance is likely to answer the same purpose ? — 
J. C. Farmer, 

Curcilio contractus Marsham and Nédyus contractus Stephens are 
two names for the same insect: Rhyncheze‘nus assimilis /'ab., as mentioned 
by Kirby and Spence (Jntrod., vol. i. p. 453.), is doubtless distinct, but 
still closely allied, as it is most probably the Nédyus assimilis of Stephens, 
and the Curculio assimilis of Marsham. Mr. Haworth, from whom, in 
part, these synonymes have been learned, thus remarks on this subject : — 
* But it is presumed, that not any Curculidnidz [weevil tribe}, nor even any 
coleopterous insect, causes the vegetable disease called ‘ fingers and toes, 
This is one of contraction: it is more probably the work of Yenthredinidz 
[the sawfly tribe]. I have somewhere observed, in print, that lacerations 
on the green or growing parts of vegetables usually enlarge themselves, as 
is well observed on pin-scratched gourds, &c. The diseases of contraction, 
or those diverting the sap, &c., seem to be effected by haustellated [fur- 
nished with a sucker] insects. Marl is the great cure for ‘ fingers and toes,’ 
and Norfolk marl is said to be the best.” — J. D. 

The Grub (or Caterpillar, as an Entomologist would say) of the Phale‘na 
pronuba, prefers to feed on cruciferous Plants, and sometimes ravages young 
Plants of the Turnip. — The grub of this moth is that yellowish brown 
tough-skinned grub which every gardener has seen repeatedly on, and 
just under, the very surface of the soil, where it eats through the collar or 
stem of the young cabbage plants, &c. ; and, from numerous observations, I 
have concluded that it prefers the cruciferous plants of any or every 
genus to the plants of other natural orders, as the Cruciferze have all, in 
a greater or less degree, a sinapine or mustard flavour. Seven or eight 
years ago, it destroyed on the farm of Charles Harrison, Esq., at Bury St. 
Edmunds, numerous young plants of turnips, when possessed of seven or 
eight leaves, by eating through their incipient rootstalks or bulbs; here- 
upon the plants would fall aside and die. When this happened I knew 
not the name of this grub, or rather of the moth in the grub or cater- 
pillar state. This I learned from a lady versed in entomology, Mrs. 
M. A. Robinson, 64. Red Lion Street, Holborn, who was then visiting 
Bury St. Edmunds, and who took thence some of these grubs, larve, or 
caterpillars, and fed and kept them until they changed into the winged or 
perfect state. — J. D. 

The Turnip Flea. — Has the history of this insect ever yet been fully 
given in any book accessible to one who has not cash to spare for pur- 


Queries and Answers. 505 


chasing it, if expensive ? An extract, in that case, would be of some value. 
— J.C. Farmer. 

Captain Brown, in his notes to his edition of White’s History of Selborne 
represents, p. 114., that Marshall has given some information on the 
insect in the Philosophical Transactions ; and, we believe, some may also be 
found in one of the volumes of Gill’s Technological Repository. 

The Fly in Turnips.— A farmer, who lives at Green Hammerton 
(Yorkshire), states that nearly all the Swedish turnips in his neighbour- 
hood were destroyed by the fly, with the exception of those of a few of 
the farmers at Green Hammerton: and that, in consequence of their 
having adopted the following method, their crops had suffered very little, 
although they were at first as much infested as their neighbours’. A 
board, about 18 in. in breadth, and sufficiently long to cover four ridges of 
turnips, was made to run upon wheels, high enough to allow the board to 
pass over the turnips without touching the tops of them; the lower side 
of the board was painted with white paint, which the men provided them- 
selves with and took into the field; and, during the night (at which time 
the fly is more vigorous and destructive than during the day), the instru- 
ment was wheeled from one end of the field to the other. The insects, on 
being disturbed, of course immediately fly or jump up, and stick to the 
paint ; and, at the end of every set of ridges, the board was always covered 
with them. (Bury and Norwich Post, August 15. 1832.) 

On the Turnip Fly, Flea, or Beetle (Haltica némorum).— Mr. Main, in 
his I/lustrations of Vegetable Physiology just published, in a chapter on 
“ Destructive Insects,” has, p. 297., remarked: —“ The most successful 
management for preserving a crop of field turnips is by sowing drills 
of the kind intended to stand, rather thinly, alternating with drills of an- 
other sort sowed thickly; the latter will be preferred by the flies, and 
devoured while the first grow out of ther way: the supernumerary 
drills, if any of the plants escape, are afterwards hoed up..... We 
had been acquainted with this beetle, and had suffered much from its 
ravages many years, without ever being able to witness its fight; but one 
day (July 20. i832), in passing along the Fulham Road, and opposite a 
piece of turnips saved for seeds in the nursery of Messrs. Harrison and 
Bristow, we found several of the insects on our dress, and saw thousands 
sporting in the sunbeams over the crop. This circumstance shows the 
fallacy of those arguments in which it is stated that sowing ten days after 
the turnip land is ploughed, or fallowing two years successively, will 
destroy or banish the insect from the crop.” 

The Oat Grub. — The larve of the Tipula are stated, in Insect Trans- 
formations, occasionally to destroy the grass in meadows, in particular 
places, to some extent. I wish to mention (as requiring a little explanation ), 
that this never happens in the north of England. The oat crop is the 
only one that suffers much, as wheat is scarcely ever sown after lea; and it 
is probable that the eggs are deposited the preceding year amongst the long 
grass where the insect is generally found, though it may also be seen 
amongst turnips, on fallows, &c.; but then does not appear to injure the 
after-crops. It is also stated, that Reaumur was of opinion that the insects 
only eat the mould; and that the damage to the plant is done by burrowing, 
and loosening the soil: but the author is of opinion that they eat the roots 
of the grass and corn; and quotes Stickney’s Observations on the Grub, in 
support of this opinion. As to me, they appear solely to injure the oats, 
by eating the shoot above ground. I referred to the pamphlet ; and, at page 
11., it is stated, “ I have observed that the principal damage done to the 
crops of grain by grubs is by their eating off the young shoots before, or 
soon after, they make their appearance above the surface of the earth; but 
when the plants have acquired more strength and substance, by spreading 


506 Queries and Answers. 


a little from the root, then there is not much to fear, as they are more able 
to recover from any injury they may receive from the bite.” A little after, 
“ T do not believe they come much above ground in the night-time, as they 
generally feed below the surface.” As these statements do not exactly 
agree, I may as well state my experience, leaving it to the observations of 
others to determine which is right, or how far the difference of climate may ~ 
change the habits of the insect. I do believe that they feed above ground 
at night; as some patches of oats, which I examined in 1831, appeared to 
have the blade eaten down to the surface, but the root appeared not injured ; 
and, the weather setting in dry and warm, these patches became as good a 
crop as any in the field. A friend of mine kept some grubs among earth 
in a tumbler, and fed them with grass strewed on the surface ;_ which ap= 
peared much nibbled in the morning, though he never found them on the 
surface; and those who have been so curious as to examine at night with 
a candle say that the surface of the ground is then quite covered with 
grubs. The insect is only an occasional visiter, and that only after wet 
seasons, and on damp spongy soils; and, as it is generally a wet cold 
spring when the grubs are most complained of, the plant may perish then, 
although it might not do so in more genial seasons ; and, in the latter case, 
the grubs are possibly never thought of, or observed. In the year 1816, 
1817, and 1818, they were numerous, and then never heard of till 1829, 
1830, and 1831. Stickney observed that the principal part of the insects 
seen on the wing are males; and I found this correct to a surprising 
degree: healso states that lime mixed with the soil did not destroy them; 
but I should recommend quicklime, or some other acrid manure, to be ap- 
plied at night on the surface (this might be done from a cylinder of wire, 
revolving like a roller), as likely to be beneficial, as it is said to be for 
slugs, &c. — J. C. Farmer. 

I know a little plot of ground, on the southern or upland edge of the fens 
of Cambridgeshire (at Waterbeach it is), which, although surrounded by 
moistish pasture land, is broken up, and tilled as a garden. Out of, and 
upon, the soil of this garden, in about April, the pupee of a species of gnat or 
crane fly may be seen creeping and crawling. ‘They have prickles on their 
tail part, and one or two on the head part, and leave little furrows, or 
tracks, as they drag themselves through and over the dust: they are about 
three fourths of an inch long, and are of a dark colour, as is the soil. [Since 
I wrote the above and following (not over grave) remarks, I have seen 
fig. 395. f,in the Encyclopedia of Gardening, p. 428., which, without a doubt, 
represents the pupa I have spoken of: it is, in the Encyclopedia, stated to be 
the pupa of the Z‘fipula cornicina.] Their appearance on the surface at this 
(April, or spring) season is to change into the winged state, and range the 
air. In sunny days of spring, while working in this garden, I have seen in- 
dividuals escape from the above-described pupas, and fly off; and the empty 
pupa-cases are to be met with at almost every turn. The sunny excitmg 
days which promote the above-named transformations are, as every one 
knows, frequently followed by cold, and even frosty, nights. In the morn- 
ings following such nights, the new-born gnats may be seen half-dead, 
resting here and there on the soil, or hanging on the leaves of some plant 
near the earth’s surface, looking cheerlessly and miserably. All this is 
gossip, J. C. Farmer may think, and wide of his mark. Well, the only 
fact that I can tell which bears on J. C. Farmer’s views is, that this said 
garden is cropless through the whole of the winter, save a few weeds, as 
groundsel, grass, and shepherd’s purse, which are not thought worth the 
expense of removing, and which are deemed as some contribution towards 
a spring coat of manure. Well, then, as I take it that the eggs from which 
these said gnats are hatched are not deposited before the preceding autumn, 
when several of the crops, potatoes, cabbages, celery, &c. &c., are being 


London Horticultural Society and Garden. 507 


got off, on what roots under ground, or herbage above it, are the larve 
hatched from the autumn-laid eggs (if the eggs be not laid till autumn) to 
be supported? Ihave just written far enough to make my “ darkness 
visible ;”” and can now only join hands with J.C. Farmer in petitioning for 
some illumination, be it, in measure, that of rushlight or gas-light, on the 
subject. — J. D. 


Art. VII. London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


May 21. 1833.— Read. A communication on the means of obtaining 
abundant autumnal crops of the Double-bearing hautbois strawberry; by 
T. A. Knight, Esq., president. 

Exhibited. Gladiolus blandus, from Mr. Hogg ef the Ingatestone Nur- 
sery. Raménda pyrenaica, from J. Milner, Esq. A new kind of Caméllia, 
from John Reeves, Esq. A collection of kinds of heartsease, from Mr. 
James Young, Epsom. Rhododéndron catawbiénse var., Schizanthus 
retusus, E’pacris grandiflora, Kalmia latifolia, Aloe obliqua, rica vestita 
coccinea and sulphurea; Polygala latifolia, Helichrysum huimile, Pelar- 
gonium macrifolium, Gainsianwm, Russell’s Princess Augusta ; two kinds of 
Azalea, and various flowers, from Messrs. Chandler and Sons, Vauxhall. 
Céreus specidsus, specidsus engrafted upon a species of Opintia, speciosis- 
simus, Jenkinsoni, flagelliformis, six hybrid kinds of Calceolaria, and fruit of 
Wilmott’s superb strawberry, from Mr. J. Green, gardener to Sir Edward 
Antrobus, Bart. A kind of peony, raised from a seed of Pzednia Motitan 
papaveracea, from Sir A. Hume, Bart. O*xalis Pidtte, Oncidium papilio, 
Dodecatheon Méadia var. élegans, azaleas, from Mrs. Marryatt. Asparagus, 
from Mrs. Grayson of Mortlake; 110 heads, their weight 312 lbs. 

. From the Garden of the Society. Flowers: Céreus Jenkinson, Lupinus 
rivularis, Nierembérgia (Petunia) phoenicea D.Don, Gesnétria latifolia, Peeonia 
MoitanBanksuand M.papaveracea; Plectritis congésta, Collinsia grandiflora, 
Pyrus floribinda, Pentstémon procérus and Scoileri; I‘ris ténax, Glycine 
sinénsis, 20sa Banksie ltitea and B, alba; Jupinus tomentosus var., poly- 
phyllus, polyphyllus pale blue-flowered, and polyphy¥llus white-flowered ; 
Peonia, kinds of; Av’sculus, kinds. of; Cratze‘gus, kinds of; Rhododen- 
drons, Pancratium illyricum; Cream-coloured hybrid azalea, and Deep 
yellow hybrid azalea, from plants received, in 1828, from J. R. Gowen, 
Esq.: both the hybrids were raised from seeds hybridised between Azalea 
pontica and A. glatica. 

June 4.— Read. A communication on the management of the more 
freely flowering species of Cactus; by Mr. John Green, gardener to Sir 
Edward Antrobus, Bart. 

Eivhibited. The Old yellow double rose, from D. Davenport, Esq. 
Alstreemeria pulchélla var., and Pelegrina, from Lady Oakes, Mitcham. 
A collection of kinds of heartsease, from Mr. G.Glenny. A seedling rho- 
dodendron, Scarlet sweetwilliam, J‘ris pallida, from Mr. Joseph Kirke. 
Specimen of a hoe, from Lord Vernon. Brompton stocks, Géum chilénse 
grandiflorum, Viola tricolor, Fumaria, a species of, from Mrs. Marryatt. 

From the Garden of the Society. Flowers: Pentstémon ovatus,glandulésus, 
procerus, confértus, and venistus; Lathyrus grandiflorus and califérnicus ; 
Bignonia capreolata; Lupinus ornatus, rivularis, nanus, lépidus, littoralis, 
arboreus, tomentosus, varieties of ; and polyphyllus, three varieties of; Cal- 
ceolaria bicolor, integrifolia angustifolia, and rugosa latifolia ; Nierembérgia 
gracilis and pheenicea D. Don; Mimulus roseus and variegaitus; J*ris 
Aiphium, varieties of; Eucalyptus pulverulénta, Caprifoliam flexudsum, 
cilidsum, and pubéscens ; Xerophyllum ténax, Collinsia grandiflora, Del- 
phinium grandiflorum, Gaillardia aristata, Eriophyllum czspitdsum, 


508 London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Eschschdltzia californica, M/alva Munrodna, Verbéna pulchélla, d’rum 
Dracinculus ; Randnoulas: varieties of; roses, including Rosa indica 
fragrans, indica subalba, indica cérnua, indica superba, indica sanguinea 
fndica Pallavicini, and sinénsis major; Rose de Lisle, Mosa élegans, 
Watts’s climbing Chinese, Invincible carmine, Perthshire, Drummond’s 
thornless, and Rose P Heritieriana ; AmarYllis longifolia and longifolia 
white-flowered; Azalea viscosa fissa, fammea, ne plus ultra, chryso- 
lyctra, tritimphans, humilis, nudiflora carnéola, scabra, salicifolia; Lilium 
luteum maximum, Rouge particuliére, Caligula, "Tour de Babel, Jaune riche, 
rubra magnifique ; Robinia macrophylla, microphylla, hispida, Pseud- 
Acacia, P. crispa, and P. inérmis; Peednia albiflora Whitley: and albiflora 
Reeves? 

June 18.— Exhibited. Fourteen Brandy apples, and thirteen Nonpareil 
apples, from R. Brook, Esq. F.H.S8. Three hoes, from J. C. Loudon, Esq. 
[to prove the truth of our assertion, that what is called “ Lord Vernon’s 
hoe” is merely a slight variation of the Spanish hoe: his Lordship was 
told this, when he first gave the hoe his name, by Mr. Malpas, the foreman 
at Messrs. Weir’s, Oxford Street]. Pinks, Knevett’s new pine strawberry, 
(£nothéra macrocarpa, Calampelis scabra, from Mr. Joseph Kirke. Yel- 
low double roses, from Mrs. Lawrence. [These roses were beautifully 
grown: the tree is on a western exposure, and is kept clear of insects by 
washing it abundantly with soapsuds. When the flower-buds first make 
their appearance, they are thinned out, so as to leave no more on the tree 
than experience has shown that it has strength enough to expand. From this 
case, and several others which have lately come under our notice, we are 
inclined to think, with Dr. Lindley, that the principal cause why the yel- 
low rose seldom opens its blossoms fully, is a want of vigour in the plant : 
hence the use of thinning the buds, &c.] Kalmia latifolia, and roses, from 
Mr. Glenny. Fruit of Keen’s seedling strawberry, from il Allnutt, Esq. 

From the Garden of the Society. Flowers: GEnothéra missouriénsis, 
bifrons, macrocarpa, and speciosa; Peednia albiflora fragrans and albiflora 
Himei; Pyrethrum carneum, Verbena chameedrifolia, Pentstémon digita- 
lis, pubéscens, diffisus, lavigatus, pulchéllus, and vendstus ; Caprifolium 
flexuosum, Cotonedster affinis and frigida ; 3 Robinia viscosa, Brodize‘a 
congésta, roses, pinks, Calceolaria Her ber tidna ; Lupinus nanus, ornatus ; 
Rosa indica sanguinea, indica Pallavicini, helen subalba, and. perpétua 
Lindléy:; Italian evergreen rose, Countess of Lieven rose, Celestial 
Chinese rose, Perthshire rose. 

July 2.— Exhibited. Weemanthus multiflorus, from Colonel Fielding. 
Heemanthus multiflorus, from Mr. Joseph Knight. Flowers of a collection 
of roses, from Mr. 8. Hooker of Brenchley. Brown’s superb rose, and a 
collection of kinds of heartsease, from Mr. Charles Brown of Slough. 
Lilium longiflorum, from Mr. Hugh Lowe, Clapton Nursery. Pinks and 
calceolarias, from Mr. Glenny. Azaleas, from Lord Caernarvon. A species “ 
of Bérberis from the Himalayan Mountains, from Countess Amherst. 
Erica viridiflora, Nierembérgia (Petinia) phoenicea, Verbéna vendsa, 
Fiachsia globosa, hybrida, virgata, Thompsoniana ; Senécio atropurpureus ; 
Pelargonium Devonie, Lord Combermere, Sir Walter Scott, bipinnati- 
fidum, Seedling scarlet ; Yellow noisette rose, Cotylédon coriscans, Ery- 
thrina /aurifolia, Potentilla Hopwoodiana, Late pink-flowered azalea, from 
Messrs. Chandler and Sons, Vauxhall. 

From the Garden of the Society. Flowers: Clarkia pulchélla and élegans ; 
Matthiola tricuspidata, Eschscholtzia californica, Coredépsis lanceolata, 
Lupinus nanus and ornatus; Spire‘a arizfolia, Campanula macréutha, 
Ceanothus americanus; Potentilla Mayana, Russelliana, atrosanguinea, 
Mackayana, and formosa ; Tropze‘olum, brown-flowered; Verbena chamze- 
drifolia and pulchéella; Rhododéndron maximum var., Pentstémon diffisus, 
pubéscens, pulchéllus, levigatus, gracilis, and vendstus; Fachsia virgata 


London Horticultural Society and Garden. 509 


and gracilis multiflora ; Quisqualis indica, Stenactis speciosa, Nierembérgia 
(Petunia) pheenicea; Ginotheéra bifrons, macrocarpa, quadrivilnera, mis-= 
souriénsis, densiflora, speciosa, and a new variety of odorata; Calochértus 
spléndens, albus, pulchéllus, and ltiteus ; Escallonia ribra, Lilium japoni- 
cum, Sempervivum glutindsum, Passiflora kermesina, Whee bicolor. 
Flowers of georginas; and of the following roses : — Gabrielle d’ Estrées, 

Duchesse de Montebello, Renoncule, Bougainville, Marie Louise, Mor- 
daunt de Launay, Grande Henriette, Bizarre de la Chine, Roxalane fleur 
rose tendre hybrid Bengale, Rouge admirable, Bluss moss, Agathe singu- 
liére, Octavie Coerelle, Nubienne, Double red noisette, Chamney’s red 
cluster, Renoncule rouge, Neoresse, Brown’s superb, Muscosa major, 

Parny, Rosa indica Pallavicini, “indica sanguinea, and perpétua Lindley: ; 
Drummond’s thornless rose. 

The two Exhibitions alluded to (p. 383.), on the 25th of May and the 
22d of June, were well attended, and appear to have given great. satis- 
faction; though, as it is impossible to please every body, we have received 
the following communication on the subject of the first exhibition ; and we 
publish it, because it may possibly afford some useful hints to the Society. 

The Exhibition of Flowers at the Horticultural Gardens, on the 25th of 
May, was any thing but satisfactory ; and was productive of disappointment 
to all those who attended the gardens in the expectation of seeing a fine 
collection of plants. That so many medals should have been bestowed is 
extraordinary; and is a proof rather of the liberality of the Society and 
judges, than affording any information as to the merits of the different 
exhibitors. That some of the plants were well bloomed, I am ready to 
admit ; and, also, many of the persons deserved credit for their exertions 
in raising the different seminal varieties : but, viewing the collection as a 
whole, the display fell very short of what one might have anticipated. 
There. was, perhaps, something to commend, but there was little deser ving 
of reward; and a much better show might be seen, at many of the nur- 
series about town, almost in every week throughout the year. My object 
in addressing you is not, however, to draw invidious comparisons, or to 
throw a damp upon the exertions of individuals: on the contrary, I am 
most anxious to forward the views of the Society, by promoting such ex- 
hibitions; feeling assured that, if they were under good management, and 
were properly encouraged and supported, they would tend-much to the 
advancement of horticulture. 

The cause of the paucity of plants sent to the Garden I apprehend to 
be, the short notice given to the public. Should the Society find that the 
plan which they have adopted this year (I believe, for the first time) suc- 
ceeds, and gives satisfaction to the subscribers, would it not be much 
better that notice should be given, in the autumn of each year, of the exhi- 
bitions to take place in the year following, both in Regent Street and at 
the Gardens? Instead of: allowing an indiscriminate selection of flowers 
at the option or discretion of the exhibitor, would it not be more judicious 
to limit it to a certain number, and also to a particular genus or species ; 
at any rate, for the principal prize? Thus, the same description of plant 
would not be shown oftener than once in three or four years, and encou- 
ragement would be given to the cultivation of a greater variety of plants. 
To make the. exhibitions more attr active, it would be desirable to offer a 
medal for the six or twelve best stove or green-house plants alternately ; 
and a prize might also be given (at any rate, at the spring shows) for a 
certain number of the finest herbaceous or alpine plants, many of which 
are susceptible of great improvement under proper cultivation. The same 
arrangement should be observed with respect to fruits, as far as it will 
apply. A gold medal might be offered for the principal prize, and a silver 
one for the stove or ereen-house plants; but these medals should only be 


510 London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


awarded where great merit was displayed: and it should rest with the 
judges to decide whether the collection was such as to warrant one or 
both being given at all. The medals should be made large and handsome, 
for the purpose of stimulating individuals to exert themselves, by render- 
ing them objects worthy of attaimment. Although I consider that the 
Society, by giving these medals, would only be fulfillmg one of the objects 
for which it was first established, viz. that of encouraging and promoting a 
more general cultivation of plants, still it would not be fair to trench too 
far upon the funds of the subscribers, by imposing all the burden of pro- 
viding the medals upon the Society. I would, therefore, suggest that the 
sur plus arising from the sale of tickets for admission to the exhibitions, 
after providing for the necessary expenses attending them, should be set 
apart for this purpose; and, should the surplus be such as to justify a 
ereater expenditure, minor prizes might be given, at the discretion of the 
Council; at any rate, every inducement ought to be held out to insure 
competition, always keeping in view the necessity of not being too lavish in 
bestowing rewards, and only doing so where great and superior merit was 
displayed: otherwise, the medals of the Society will soon cease to be held. 
in the estimation in which they ought to be. No person should be allowed 
to receive the gold or silver medal twice for the same description of plant ; 
but any individual having obtained the medal for the stove, green-house, or 
herbaceous plants, might be allowed to show each time, provided different 
genera, species, or varieties were forwarded. For the camellias, and such 
plants as sport when raised from seed, a prize of some description might 
be given for the best seedling; but in no case should one be awarded 
unless the flower shown was decidedly and absolutely distinct from every 
known variety. It would also be desirable to exclude all cut flowers, 
where it is practicable. After.viewing the miserable appearance which the 
rhododendrons, azaleas, &c., which were cut, made at the Gardens a few 
days back, no one will, I conceive, advocate their being received ; besides, 
it is open to much objection. Another regulation ought to be made, 
making it imperative for every individual showing for the prizes, to put in, 
with their plants, declaration upon honour, stating that they have been in 
their possession for the period of six or twelve months: any person at all 
acquainted with the practices which obtain prizes at the various shows will 
see at once the wisdom of enforcing this rule. 

I have thus thrown out a few hints, which you will, perhaps, do me the 
favour to insert in your Magazine. If it is the intention of the Society to 
continue these exhibitions, they should be conducted on some fixed and 
permanent plan, in order that those who are disposed to patronise them 
may be prepared to send something worth the inspection of the members 
of the Society and their friends. This was by no means the case at the 
last Meeting: and any arrangement that can be made to prevent so great a 
disappointment as was felt by very many who attended it, must be advan- 
tageous to the cause of horticulture. I am not disposed to criticise too 
severely the measures of the Council ; but every one must have observed 
great want of judgment in most of the arrangements with reference to 
these fétes: and it would appear as if the object of them was more with 
a view of procuring money towards assisting the funds of the Society, than 
promoting the advancement of science. 

Before I conclude, I think it necessary to make some observations with 
respect to the selection of the judges. In numbers, I think, they ought 
not to be less than five; three of whom should be nurserymen, or persons 
having plants constantly under their view. In the last exhibition, the 
gentlemen appointed as judges neither displayed judgment nor discrimi- 
nation. A gentleman may be an excellent botanist, or a good judge of the 
particular flower which it may be his fancy to cultivate ; but, before any 


Covent Garden Market. 511 


individual can be capable of passing an opinion upon the growth and per- 
fection of a general collection, he ought to have a thorough knowledge of 
plants: and this is only to be ‘acquired by men in the profession, either as 
gardeners or nurserymen. Therefore, I thmk, the majority of the judges 
ought to consist of these; the other two should be members of the So- 
ciety. — H. London, May 28. 1833. 

The Third Exhibition was held at the Gardens on the 20th of July, and 
gave very general satisfaction. As was expected, a greater quantity and 
variety of fruits were exhibited than on the two former occasions; and 
among tliese were some particularly excellent grapes. Mr. Forrest (who 
has left the Duke of Northumberland, and has commenced landscape- 
gardener and garden architect, at Turnham Green, on his own account) 
informed us that he never saw finer bunches and berries than those of the 
specimen to which the first prize was awarded. We must defer the details 
till our next. — Cond. 


Art. VIII. Covent Garden Market. 


, From To }) From To — 

The Cabbage Tribe. OAs 8 eal 2 ea Glee da 
Cabbage, White, per dozen| 0 0 9|0 1 0} Mint, per dozenbunches-|0 2 6/0 0 O 
Cauliflowers, per dozen - OMSL GHIhOs 2 6 Peppermint, perdoz.bunch.| 0 2 6}0 0 0O 
Broccoli, Cape, per bunch |0 0 8/0 1 6]; Marjoram, per doz. bunches 04 0/0 00 
Savory, per dozen bunches |0 2 0/0 0 O 

Legumes. | Basil, per dozen bunches 04 0/0 0 0 

P ; per sieve tile 0 2 010 8 6] Rosemary, per doz. bunches} 0 4 0/0 0 O 

faS Upersack - - |0 6 0|0 8 O]|| Lavender, per doz. bunches|0 3 0}0 0 0 
Beans, Windsor ae sieve 9 u 2 d 3 Tansy, per dozen bunches |0 2 0|0 0 O 

: ‘ | Stalks and Fruits for Tarts, 

Kidneybeans, per half sieve} 0 1 0|0 1 6 | Pichline: 56 
Tubers and Roots. Rhubarb Stalks, per bundle} 0 1 0/0 0 0 
per ton 3 0 0!310 0] Angelica Stalks, per pound}; 0 0 4/0 0 0 
Potatoes - Sper ewt. 0 3 01/0 3 6||Sea Samphire, per small 
per bushel|}0 1 9/0 2 (||_ punnet 2 00 6/0 00 

New, per pound 0 0 1!0 O 8] Vegetable Marrow, per doz. ae OO O @ 
Turnips, White, per bunch 00 3/0 0 4 Capsicums, per hundred- |0 2 0/0 2 6 
Ree BREE PARED pst 0 0 410 0 6|| Edible Fungi and Fuci. 

Horn © 0 0 6]|0 O 81] Mushrooms, per pottle - |0 0 9/0 1 0 
Horseradish, per Sunglle = 0 2 6/0 4 O}| Morels, dried,perpound -|/014 0/0 0 0 
Radishes : Truffles, English, perpound] 0 14 0/0 0 0 

Red, per dozen hands f 

(24 to 30 each) 09/01 Fruits. 

White and Red Tumip, Apples, Dessert, per 3 sieve: 
per bunch - - 12/0 0 2 Juneating - SO 2eOvwg @ 
; : Sack and Sugar - 07 2) 0) |) 0) (2G: 
The Spinach Tribe. Baking,perbushel - |0 3 6/0 5 O 
Shfivedh ee sieve - |0 1 6]0 O O]}| Peaches, per dozen - 1012 0)02 0 
P per half sieve - 0 1 0/0 0 O}} Nectarines, per dozen - 012 0}0 24 0 
Sorrel, per half sieve - 0 1 0!0 O Q}| Apricots, per dozen S102 O1@ & © 
5 : Almonds, per peck Sf O- 6 OOO © 
The Onion Tribe. Plums, Dessert, per punnet] 0 1 6/0 2 6 
Onions, for pickling, per Cherries, per pound =-10 0 2510) 0) 4 

half sieve - <= 03 0);0 5 0 Bigarreau oO 00 4/0 1 0 
Garlic, per pound - - |0 0 8/0 O O]j| Gooseberries, per half sieve OZ O10 2 
Shallots, perpound - - |Q 0 8]0 O O|| Currants, per half sieve: 

lack = = = 0) 3) 0)) 0) 3) 56 

Asparaginous Plants, White 3 3 SO B Ow @ 3 O 

Salads, Sc. Red, forwine - - |0 3 6/0 4 6 

Artichokes, perdozen - |0 16/0 2 6 Red, dessert - 05 0;0 0 0 
Lettuce, per score : Raspberries, Red, per gallon 

Cos - - |0 1 6]0 2 6|| (2 pottles) OO Bila O 

Large Cabbage 0 1 0/0 1 3/j| Walnuts, Green, per bushel] 0 3 6|0 5 0 
Celery, per bundle (12 to 15) 0 1 6/0 2 6)| Pine-apples, per pound SOS OO. 3 © 
Small Salads, perpunnet ~|0 0 2]|0 0 3]| Hot-house Grapes, perJb. |0 3 6|0 5 O 
Watercress, per dozen small 0 3 6|| Figs, per dozen = = 060;)0 0 0 

bunches - 5 - |0 6 0/0 O O}j Melons, per pound SAO: EG OG 
Burnet, per bunch 5 PO. OBO 0 0) Dutch, each 2 BO a2.) ee 

fo} perdozen - |0 100 2 6 

Pot and Sweet Herbs. ranges per hundred | 0 6 0}014 0 
Parsley, per half sieve - |0 1 6/0 0 O demon perdozen - |0 0 9 0 20 
Tarragon, perdoz.bunches}0 5 0/0 0 0 perhundred | 0 6 0 {70 14 0 
Fennel, per dozen bunches | 0 2 0]0 0 Oj Brazil Nuts, per bushel -| 012 0|016 0 
Thyme, per dozen bunches | 0 3 0]|0 O O|| Spanish Nuts, per peck - | 0 2 6/0/50 0 
Sage, per dozen bunches -|0 3 0/{0 O O}} Barcelona,per peck, - |0 5 0/0 0 0 


5 


512 Obituary. 

Observations. — The supplies of vegetables have not being so heavy this 
season as last, but the demand has been better, consequently the growers 
have realised better prices, and the market has presented a more cheerful 
appearance. Fruit has come to hand in excellent condition, in consequence 
of the general prevalence of dry weather during the months of June and 
July to this period. Cherries generally an excellent crop, and of superior 
quality, realising good prices, considering the quantities furnished. Cur- 
rants.also in good supply, and of superior quality ; prices good, at present 
rather high. Gooseberries have not been so plentiful. The demand for 
the better sorts of fruits, such as forced peaches, grapes, nectarines, has 
been but limited; as the supply has been tolerably good, the prices have 
been, and continue to be, very moderate. Pine-apples, in the early part of 
the season, brought excellent prices, but at present, in consequence of 
increased supplies, and the coming in of other fruits freely, they are not 
in much demand, and the prices are very low. The crop of walnuts is 
very heavy, and the supply for pickling considerable, but little in demand ; 
prices very low. Potatoes come to hand in great abundance, with every 
prospect of a general good crop; the present prices are very low, but as 
the supply of other vegetables falls off, they may sell better. Peas and 
beans are at present cheaper than they have been throughout the season : 
French beans are coming to market in good quantities, and the present 
rains will ensure a good supply of vegetables throughout the autumn and 
winter. — G.C. July 22. 1833. 

The Hungerford Market, a judiciously arranged and handsome building, 
by that distinguished architect of markets, Charles Fowler, Esq., has been 
lately opened for the sale of vegetables, and also of fish. As it borders the 
Thames, it is evidently well adapted for both purposes. Fish may be 
brought up from the Nore; and vegetables and fruits brought down from 
the banks of the Thames, as faras Walton, or even Staines, where immense 
quantities of peas are grown. There is ample room for ice-cellars below, 
for keeping both vegetables and fish. There is one thing wanting to both 
Covent Garden and Hungerford Markets, which we could wish to see sup- 
plied: it is, a properly contrived coffee-room or public room, in which the 
public, ladies as well as gentlemen, might eat fruits; and be supplied not 
only with all the best kinds, but with all the proper accompaniments, of 
creams, ices, liqueurs, and, above all, that divine beverage the best Mocha 
coffee, with powdered sugarcandy. — Cond. 


Art. IX. Obituary. 


Diep, in the middle of April, 1833, aged 83 years, Mr. Sinclair, the 
father of Mr. Sinclair of the New Cross Nursery. Inhis earlier years he 
was considered one of the best gardeners in the south of Scotland. He 
came to England in the pursuit of knowledge of his business in J774, and 
in 1778 became gardener to the Hon. G. Baillie of Jerviswood, at Mel- 
lerstane, where he continued until his death, a period of 55 years; but he 
had retired from business a short time before his decease. It was stated 
in the provincial newspaper which noticed his death at the time it happened, 
that his remains were “followed to the grave by the grandson of the Mr. 
Baillie by whom he was first employed. Similar instances are rare; but 
their occurrence reflects equal honour upon the kindness of the employer 
and the faithfulness of the employed.” (Kelso Mail, April 25. 1833.) Some 
nine or ten weeks preceding this, died the present Mr. Sinclair’s uncle at 
Bonnington (Falls of the Clyde), near Lanark.. He had been superin- 
tendent of the gardens, grounds, and farms there, for many years. 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 


OCTOBER, 1833. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Art.I. Notes on Gardens and Country Seats, visited, from July 27. 
to September 16., during a Tour through Part of Middlesex, 
Berkshire, Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire, Wiltshire, Dorsetshire, 
Hampshire, Sussex, and Kent. By the Conpucror. 


Tue last time we passed deliberately through this tract of 
country was in 1812 and 1813; and, comparing it as it is now 
with what it was then, we have been much gratified by some 
things, and found cause for regret at several others. We have 
found a decided improvement in the cottage gardens, we may 
say everywhere, by the more frequent appearance of flowers 
in them, and by the prevalence of the China rose, trained 
against the walls. The cottage dwellings are, on the whole, 
not worse; and on some estates they are a good deal im- 
proved. Many cottages, which before had no gardens, have 
now considerable portions of ground added to them; unfor- 
tunately, not generally adjoining the cottage, but in some 
neighbouring field; but still there is now hardly a cottage 
which has not ground attached to it in some way or other. 
Here and there throughout the country we observed labour- 
ers’ cottages, of a superior description, erected or erecting, 
with platforms or terraces round them, and lofty ornamental 
chimney tops, with ornamental barge-boards, pendants, and 
pinnacles. We think we may fairly trace the origin of these 
to the circulation of our Encyclopedia of Cottage, Farm, 
and Villa Architecture; a book which, we are happy to say, 
Vou. 1X. — No. 46. Ti 


514 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


has been well received everywhere, and which, we trust, will 
ere long produce a visible good in every part of the island. 
In agriculture we do not think any very great improvement 
has taken place, except upon particular estates. In almost 
every part of the tract which we passed through, three heavy 
horses, in a line, attended by a man and boy, were to be seen 
dragging a clumsy plough, of local construction, at a snail’s 
pace; turnips, almost everywhere, were sown broadcast, or, 
if drilled, on a flat surface; and in only one or two instances, 
under the direction of Scotch bailiffs, did we see Finlayson’s 
harrow substituted for the brake or cultivator. Plantations 
of trees have been made in many places which were unen- 
closed common when we last passed through them; and by 
the formation of these plantations, and the increased growth 
of others, the general aspect of the landscape is, in many 
parts of the country, entirely changed. We were nowhere 
more struck with this than on the road between Oxford and 
Woodstock, which, instead of the bleak and dreary appear- 
ance it formerly had, is now bordered with belts of trees, and 
sprinkled with cottages. ‘There are now on this road no less 
than three nursery gardens. 

The roads have been everywhere more or less improved, 
but still they fall far short of what they ought to be, in order 
to put the traveller or carrier, who uses only one horse, on 
a footing with him who can afford to use a greater number. 
This ought to be the beau idéal object of road-making, and 
it is only to be done by extending improvement to all the 
cross roads, and by allowing no slope in any road whatever 
to exist greater than that of the Simplon, or about one in 
forty. We have elsewhere shown how this might be gradually 
accomplished on all the roads in the country, simply by the 
employment of the superfluous labour of the different parishes; 
or, in other words, by giving all able-bodied men, who apply 
for parish relief, work at a fair rate of wages. 

One of the most gratifying marks of improvement which 
we observed was the establishment of Bell and Lancasterian 
schools in almost every town, and in many villages. ‘There 
are also a few infant schools. In our opinion, the subjects 
taught in these schools at present, are not the most likely to 
enlighten the minds of the pupils; but it is a great step to 
have had a commencement made in any way. This com- 
mencement, we have no doubt, will end in a national system 
of education, at the expense of all, and for the benefit of all. 

With respect to gardens and country-seats, we may say, 
that, on the whole, we never saw them in a state of worse 
keeping. Generally speaking, the more extensive the park 
and gardens, the worse they are kept. We scarcely recollect 


General Remarks. 515 


above one or two noblemen’s places highly kept; and even 
one of these will no longer be an exception to the general 
rule, since pecuniary difficulties have occasioned eleven gar- 
den labourers to be discharged from it at once. ‘The noblest 
place in Britain, perhaps in Europe, Blenheim, is going 
rapidly to decay. Before entering the great gates at Wood- 
stock, the stranger sees two trees (an ash and a sycamore), 
each 4 ft. or 5 ft. high, growing out of crevices in the stone 
piers. When the gates are opened, he observes half the 
lake turned into a morass covered with rushes. Advancing 
to the house, he finds part of the architrave over the eastern 
gateway fallen down; and, if he goes as far as the cascade, 
he will find that the head or dam is no longer in a state to 
retain water; and that, of course, the lake is not so full as it 
ought to be by five or six feet. ‘The duke’s private garden, 
of which we think very little, we shall speak of hereafter in 
detail.* Almost the only highly kept gardens which we saw 
were those of small proprietors, professional men, merchants, 
or bankers. Of these, we must give the decided preference, 
for beauty and keeping united, to the following, which we put 
down in the order in which we saw them : — Drayton Green, 
near Acton, Mrs. Lawrence; ‘Taplow House, near Maiden- 
head, Pascoe Grenfell, Esq.; Bishop’s Stoke, near South- 
ampton, the Rev. Thos. Garnier; the garden of the Misses 
Garnier, near Wickham; and Redleaf, near Tunbridge 
Wells, William Wells, Esq. ‘The last was by far the most 
beautiful, and, except the garden of the Misses Garnier, 
the most perfectly kept, of all the places which we saw. 
There are a number of gardens which approach to the above, 
some in point of high keeping, others in scenic beauty, and 
some in both united; but they have all something about 
them which prevents our giving them unqualified praise. 
Among the most beautiful, and at the same time highly 
enriched, places which we saw, after Redleaf, was Mont- 
real, near Sevenoaks; but the house and kitchen-garden 
are unworthy of the pleasure-ground. Littlecot Park, near 


* Let not this view of the decay of noblemen’s gardens induce gardeners 
in want of places to despair. Every gardener who has seen much service 
knows that a situation under a rich tradesman, merchant, or small landed 
proprietor is productive of far more comfort to him than one under a 
nobleman; where so many intermediate persons come in between him 
and his employer, that he is at all times liable to misrepresentation, and to 
be discharged without even an opportunity of explanation. As far as we 
have observed, the pay given to their head gardeners by men who are them- 
selves in business is as great as, in many instances greater than, that given 
by noblemen. As the country goes on improving, the small places will 
greatly increase, and, with them, a taste for gardening, and situations for 
first-rate gardeners. 

LL 2 


516 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : —~ 


Hungerford, General Popham, is as highly kept as a place 
can be; and the house is faultless as a piece of beautiful 


antiquity in the highest preservation : but the pleasure-ground 


wants replanting with finer shrubs, of less coarse growth than 
those by which it is at present occupied. Dropmore, as far 
as it is completed, ranks among the very first places in point 
of order and keeping; but there is a great deal to do there, 
and, besides, there is no kitchen-garden connected with the 
other scenery of the place. In point of skill displayed in 


landscape-gardening, decidedly the most interesting places we 


saw were Highclere (Karl of Caernarvon’s), and Bearwood, 
near Reading, the seat of J. Walters, Esq.* Nothing could 
exceed the order and high keeping of both the pleasure- 
ground and kitchen-garden at Norman Court ; and the house 


there is also good: but the pleasure-ground is too confined ; 


and, altogether, the scenery about the house wants rearranging 
to make it constitute a good whole. Among the larger places 


of the greatest natural beauty, and judicious general arrange- 


ment, were Highclere, the Grange, and Broadlands. We 
never were more struck with any thing than with Highclere, 
particularly with the variation of the grounds and views, and 
with the disposition of the trees. The first sight of the por- 
tico at the Grange, looking down upon it embosomed in wood, 
from the grove on the opposite bank, came upon us like 
enchantment. It reminded us of Martin’s Paphian Bower ; 


* We may observe here, that in not more than one or two of the numer- 
ous places at which we called, where alterations had been made, or were 
going on, was a landscape-gardener regularly employed. An architect is 
called in because he cannot be done without; but the alterations in the 
grounds are generally concocted by the master or mistress and the gar- 
dener, and carried into execution by the latter. Sometimes a nurseryman 
is called in; but, with one or two exceptions, among which we have great 
pleasure in including Mr. Page of Southampton, these gentlemen are very 
deficient in taste. 

From this wish of masters and mistresses to lay out their own grounds, 
arises, on their part,a good deal of reading about Jandscape-gardening, and 
the desire of studying it by visiting gentlemen’s seats in different parts of 
the country. The result of this will be a great and permanent improve- 
ment in this department of our art. We say great and permanent, because 
experience has shown that there is no way of securing and rendering per- 
manent improvements either in taste or science, but by their general dif- 
fusion. This affords a noble prospect to all who take an interest in these 
matters, or in the progress of society and their country; and it ought to 
show gardeners the absolute necessity of their paying every possible 
attention in their power to landscape-gardening and garden architecture. 
Let all who are under thirty begin sketching trees from nature; and all 
who are above that age set about a course of reading and reflection on the 
subject: and, further, let all who read this Magazine pay particular atten- 
tion to the notes which we make during our tours; for the main object of 
these notes is to improve the taste of gardeners. 


Mrs. Lawrence’s Villa. 517 


but is greatly superior even to that picture of ideal beauty in 
its noble foreground. ‘The situation of the house at Broad- 
lands, and the view from it, with the noble river forming the 
boundary to the lawn beneath, and the meadows and finely 
wooded hills beyond, form the very beau zdéai of an English 
country-seat. We were happy to find that, in all the places 
above named, and in several others, our remarks on the edg- 
ings of walks have been duly appreciated and acted on. — But, 
lest we should be thought partial, or should forget some per- 
son or place that ought to be mentioned in these rather hur- 
ried introductory remarks, we shall now proceed to details; 
premising that the whole of the remaining portion of these 
notes was written, ready for the press, while on our tour, every 
evening or the following morning: so that the remarks on 
each place form an exact transcript of what we felt at the time 
of seeing it. 

Mrs. Lawrence's Villa, Drayton Green. — July 27. This 
place, of limited extent, and possessing no material advantage 
except that of a dry soil on a subsoil of gravel, has been 
rendered a perfect bzjou of floricultural beauty by the exertions 
aud taste of Mrs. Lawrence. All the most rare and beautiful 
hardy flowers and peat earth shrubs are here assembled, and 
beautifully disposed in groups, in the natural or picturesque 
manner, on the smoothest lawn; interspersed with a few trees, 
and decorated with fountains, statuary, vases, rockwork, and 
basketwork. There is a green-house full of choice articles ; 
and there is not a plant that is not grown in the very highest 
degree of perfection, or a scene that is not in the highest 
order and keeping. Among the plants that struck us as pro- 
fusely covered with bloom, and beautifully grown, were the 
single and double Clématis florida, the yellow Chinese and 
yellow Noisette roses, the Calandrinia grandiflora, Petunia 
phoenicea and nyctaginiflora ; all the new fuchsias ; Salpiglos- 
sis picta, atropurpurea, and Barclaydna; Schizanthus pinnatus, 
retusus, and Hodkerz; Verbena chameedrifolia, and others ; 
showy nicotianas, Lupinus mutabilis, and others; Clarkza, 
Maurandya Barclayana; Salvia angustifolia, with its exqui- 
sitely blue blossoms ; Anagallis Webbzana, and others, &Xc. 

A straight line or row of shrubs, used as a screen, is suc- 
cessfully varied by acute triangular projections on the turf, in 
the manner of what mantua-makers call vandykes (in allusion 
to the style of shirt-collar usually found in Vandyke’s por- 
traits); the triangles are of irregular size, at different dis- 
tances of from $ ft. to 5 ft., and are filled with flowers. ‘The 
Jawn here is one of the most beautifully kept we ever saw ; 


and it is shaven with the mowing machine alone, with only 
LL 3 


518 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


the assistance of shears at the roots of the shrubs. Mrs. 
Lawrence attributes much of the high order and keeping of 
the whole to the care and attention of her head gardener, 
Mr. Cornelius, brother to the foreman of that name in the hot- 
houses of Messrs. Lee’s nursery. 

Aldine Cottage, Bagster, Eisq., near Shepherd’s Bush. — 
July 29. Avery neatly kept small place, well worthy of notice, 
on account of the ardent love of gardening, and of order and 
neatness, displayed by the occupier ; and by the improvement 
which he has made on Nutt’s bee-hives, so as to render them 
more likely to come within the reach of the labouring cot- 
tager. Details of Mr. Bagster’s hive, by himself, will be given 
in a future Number. 

Briogs’s Villa, Acton. — Beautifully situated on a bank 
whica slopes down to a small brook; the lawn studded with 
choice shrubs, and varied with beds of flowers, and the steps 
to the house cmbroidered with pots of house-plants. ‘The 
main entrance literally stopped by a hedge of Campanula 
pyramidalis, at least 6 ft. high. We have admired this place 
for years, without having before mentioned it in print. 

Gunnersbury House, A. Copland, Esq. — This is a fragment 
of a park, which was laid out by the celebrated Kent, abont 
the year 1740. The old features remaining are some fine 
cedars and two pieces of rather naked water. The present 
house was built by Mr. Copland, on the summit of a brow, 
commanding a park of 50 acres, with the rich cultivated 
scenery of Middlesex beyond, and in the extreme distance the 
Surrey hills. Among the fine features of this place may be 
enumerated a straight terrace on the lawn in front of the 
house, terminating in an alcove at one end, and, at the other, 
passing through a triumphal arch to a winding walk, carried 
along the brow of the hilly part of the grounds, so as to dis- 
play the leading features of the park and the distant scenery, 
on the one hand ; and, on the other, highly kept lawn, with 
choice shrubs, and all the usual furniture of flowers, ba- 
sins, fountains, sculptures, rockwork, basketwork, seats, and 
trellises; added to these, there are avery handsome billiard- 
room containing also an organ, a flower-garden, and a large 
piece of water. The flower-garden is included within a cir- 
cular walk, with a smaller circle in the centre, and two semi- 
circular basins of water, with an arcade of trelliswork. All 
the forms are perfectly simple, but they are very effective, 
especially when clothed, as they now are, by the most select 
plants. One circumstance in the plan of these beds deserves 
notice: they are placed on turf, but surrounded by a margin, 
of the breadth of 4 in., of gravel, within which is an edging of 
box, kept low and flat, so as to form an inner margin corre- 


Aldine Cottage, Gunnersbury House. 519 


sponding in width with the outer one. . The effect is highly 
artificial, and appropriate to this description of fower-garden. 
The arcade of trelliswork consists of arches of iron wire, 
alternately rising and reversed, so as to give the idea of a fes- 
tooned wreath of flowers. The only defect we found in this 
circle -of festooned work was the want of breadth, which 
might be easily supplied by means of a few cross wires, so as 
to retain a more ample mantle of vegetation. Among the blue 
flowers in this flower-garden were Anagallis Monéllz and 
A, latifolia, the common convolvulus, Tradescantza, the 
blue verbena, the blue lobelia, and the heliotrope. Various 
little circular beds of mesembryanthemums were eminently 
beautiful as the sun happened to shine full upon them while 
we walked round. ‘The piece of water is almost the only 
formal part of the pleasure-ground. At whatever point you 
stand, you see the entire outline, which is what botanists 
would call orbiculate, or, in common language, shaped like a 
horsepond. It would be easy to vary it by one or two 
narrow islands along the sides, being careful not to destroy 
breadth of effect by placing any near the centre, or equidis- 
tantly along the margin. Among the commendable practices, 
of which we saw a number at this place, we may mention that 
of using the vaults under a summer-house as a place for 
growing mushrooms. We found an excellent crop on these 
beds, even at this dry hot season, and were informed by 
Mr. Mills (the head gardener) that he had them in abundance 
all the year. In the drying ground we observed copper 
wires, about three sixteenths of an inch in diameter, instead 
of lines. The poultry yard and rabbitry are very complete ; 
but the latter facing the south, and having a thin slate roof 
immediately over the hutches, the rabbits are found not to thrive 
quite so well in the summer time, as they do in the winter. 
The worst thing about Gunnersbury is the kitchen-garden. 
The soil is thin, on a gravelly bottom, and the compartments 
are interspersed with fruit trees, which neither bear fruit nor 
permit the soil beneath to bear good crops of well-flavoured 
vegetables. In consequence of the compartments being thus 
occupied, the wall borders are obliged to be cropped, and the 
trees, consequently, are rendered little better than useless. All 
these matters, however, are undergoing substantial reforms 
by Mr. Mills, well known to be one of the best practical gar- 
deners of the day. In the course of the twelve or thirteen 
months which he has been here, he has not only brought the 
place into good general order, but has effected most extensive 
permanent improvements. ‘The gardener’s house is very pro- 
perly placed in the kitchen-garden, detached, in a high and 
LL 4 


520 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


dry situation, and not surrounded by trees or shrubs, as is too 
often the case: it has a kitchen, back kitchen, and parlour on 
the ground floor, and three good bed-rooms over. Nine 
gardener’s houses in ten are rendered unhealthy by being 
placed behind the hot-houses in damp situations ; by being, 
when detached, closely surrounded by trees or shrubs ; or by 
having the bed-rooms on the ground floor. Nothing can be 
a greater mistake on the part of masters, than to suppose that 
servants can do their duty when not rendered thoroughly 
comfortable. 

A Villa between Gunnersbury and Brentford has a kitchen- 
garden which faces the road. The coping to the walls of 
this garden is formed by a vine trained along the upper edge 
of the wall in the manner which Mr. Gorrie (p. 464.) recom- 
mends to be done with the Ayrshire rose. 

Mr. Ronalds’s Nursery, Brentford. — In the shop there were 
two handsome models of heath and moss houses, made by two 
young men of Stirling, candidates for employment in this way 
on a large scale. ‘They were brought into notice by Messrs. 
Drummond, the patriotic seedsmen of that town, and we 
hope they will be employed by some wealthy amateur in 
England. We noticed specimens of twenty different sorts of 
peas, the names of some of which we had never before heard 
of; a proof, as we have elsewhere observed, that gardeners 
ought always to give a certain licence to their seedsmen, in 
order that they may have every new thing sentto them. We 
also found, by a prospectus, that the large and handsome con- 
servatory (Vol. V. p. 268. fig. 55.), erected by the spirited 
plumber and glazier, Mr. Roberts of Oswestry, is to be dis- 
posed of by raffle, as soon as 800 subscribers of a guinea each 
can be found. ‘This sum, we are assured, and we can readily 
believe it, is less than one half of what it cost. The nursery 
at Brentford, and at the four other places where Mr. Ronalds 
has grounds, is everywhere in the very best order, and in no 
season have the articles been better grown ; in few, indeed, so 
well. Besides fruit trees, Mr. Ronalds has always been cele- 
brated for raising garden seeds, and especially the seeds of 
flowers. We saw immense quantities of the ice plant, Sal- 
pigléssis, Schizanthus, Petwnia, BrowAllza, balsams, &c., in pots 
in the green-houses for ripening seeds. Among the shrubby 
plants in the open ground finely in flower were, Ceanothus cze- 
ruleus; a hedge of rose acacias; scarlet coluteas, both in flower 
and seed, at once beautiful and singular ; Sdllya heterophylla; 
and a very handsome plant of Aralia spinosa with a branchy 
top, and its broad leaves forming horizontal lines like one of 
Martin’s cedars. ‘There is here the best stock which we 


Botanic Garden at Twickenham. 521 


have seen of 2zbes speciosum (at a guinea a plant), and abun- 
dant crops of cedars, Pinus Laricio, P. Cémbra, and other rare 
and valuable pines, rising from seed. ‘The same may be said 
as to a number of American trees and shrubs. 

The Fruit-garden of Mr. H. Knevett, at Isleworth. — This 
is a very old fruit-garden on excellent soil, and well sub- 
divided by brick walls, on which the finer kinds of fruit are 
trained. The intervening compartments are almost entirely 
devoted to strawberries, and to gooseberries, and other fruit 
shrubs and fruit trees. The only culinary vegetables grown 
are tart rhubarb and sea-kale. ‘This garden, ‘and a aie bet 
of others surrounding it, from the Thames on the one hand to 
the Brentford road on the other, may be considered, in 
gardening history, as classic ground. It has probably been 
garden ground for centuries; for the first nursery mentioned 
in British history was at Twickenham; and Batty Langley, 
the first gardening author who figured fr uits, lived there, and 
his house was, till lately, pointed out to those who enquired 
after it. Mr. Henry Knevett is proprietor of the ground 
which he cultivates, and it is sufficiently extensive to jatord 
him a handsome income. He probably lives better than nine 
tenths of the Caledonian gentry do at this moment, when at 
their country seats, and without company. We happened to 
call while he was at dinner, and saw the whole of his fine family, 
five sons and two daughters, all grown up, sitting round his 
table. His strawberry we believe, with Mr. Munro, to be the 
very best now in cultivation. 

The Botanic Garden of the late Mr. Swainson at Twicken- 
ham. — We first visited this garden in April, 1804, during 
the lifetime (if we are accurate in our recollection) of the late 
Mr. Swainson, a good practical botanist, and much attached 
to gardening. Every thing, we recollect, was then in the very 
highest order and keeping, ander the care of Mr. Arthur Biggs, 
now of the botanic garden, Cambridge. The general impres- 
sion on our minds, for the last fifteen years, has been, that 
this garden, as such, no longer existed; but we were agree- 
ably surprised to Jearn that we were mistaken, when attending 
the meeting (noticed p. 463.) which was held, on July 18., to 
arrange a plan for forming a Metropolitan Botanic Garden, 
by the present gardener, Mr. Castles, coming forward, and 
voluntarily offering a donation of 500 species. Mr. Castles 
did not succeed to the management of this garden till some 
years after Mr. Biggs left it. He found that Mr. Biggs’s im- 
mediate successor had taken the shortest method of managing 
the place, viz., pruning the arboretum by clipping all the 
trees and shrubs to round heads; allowing the more tender 


522 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats: — 


herbaceous plants to die off without renewing them, and those 
that remained, to cover the surface in a natural manner. ‘The 
hot-house, which, in Mr. Biggs’s time, was filled with the 
most choice tropical plants of that day, was turned into a 
vinery, as was also the large green-house; and the smaller 
hot-houses and pits were neglected, or used for raising early 
cucumbers and potatoes for sale. Mr. Castles, having been 
known to the late Mr. Swainson, was allowed by his widow 
a certain licence as to restoration; and the very existence of 
the place as a botanic garden may be said to be entirely 
owing to his enthusiasm. He is allowed a very inadequate 
sum for keeping the whole in order, and the privilege of 
selling plants. ‘The latter privilege amounts to next to nothing 
in a pecuniary point of view; but it enables Mr. Castles to 
make exchanges with other ibotaie gardens; and thus, in 
some degree, to keep up the character of the place. All the 
circumstances considered, he has the highest merit; and we 
hardly know any one but himself, who, with such slender 
means, could maintain so respectable an appearance, and who 
could bear up so well against an increasing pressure of dif- 
ficulties. Whoever wishes to see the ruins of a botanic gardeu 
of the old school, combining a Linnean arrangement with a 
general disposition of the masses in beds, so as to produce 
ornamental or picturesque effect, ought to visit this garden. 
They will there see some curious specimens of trees and 
shrubs, and some good ferns. If they wish to purchase 
herbaceous plants, they may procure a collection of 500 or 
600 of the commoner sorts cheaper than they can get them 
anywhere else. On looking into the back sheds, we were 
astonished at the completeness of the original arrangements. 
There were seven pumps with cisterns, and places for mould, 
pots, tools, &c. Mr. Swainson, we were informed by Mr. 
Castles, delighted to have every thing perfect of its kind ; 

and Mr. Castles seems to take equal “delight in strugeling 
against adverse circumstances, so as to ia a degree 6h 
order and neatness in these sheds corresponding with the 
original arrangements. ‘There is still a collection of choice 
botanical works in the house, and a herbarium in good pre- 
servation. ‘The place was originally laid out and planted 
by the late Mr. Grimwood of Kensington. On leaving it, 
a cedar was pointed out to us, on the entrance front of the 
house, which had been struck by lightning, the effect of 
which was to occasion a number of woody globular ex- 
crescences to protrude themselves from the trank. A species 
of lettuce was also shown us, raised from seeds received from 
an adjoining oil mill. These seeds are said to be imported 


Whitton Dean, Whitton Place, Slough Nursery. 523 


from the south of Europe, but from what particular part 
Mr. Castles has not been able to learn; and they are found 
to produce more oil than linseed. We should be glad of 
further information on this subject. A pine tree, which 
had been grown for some years in a pot, and its roots, 
in consequence, had formed spirals round the pot, has now 
reached the height of 15 ft., and the consequent swelling of 
the spirals has actually raised the collar of the tree six inches 
above the surface ; a proof of the bad effects of keeping sur- 
face-rooted trees, like the pine and fir tribe, more than a year 
or two in pots. A double pomegranate, in a sheltered situ- 
ation, is now covered with flowers; a circumstance which we 
do not always find when this tree is trained against a wall ; 
because, in that case, the small short shoots or spurs, on the 
points of which the blossoms are produced, are often cut cff. 

Whitton Dean, the Seat of the late Charles Calvert, Esq. — 
Since we last visited this place, in 1828 (see Vol. V. p. 94.), 
a large dining-room has been added to one end of the man- 
sion, and a corresponding drawingroom to the other. The 
distance between these two rooms is about 150 ft., and they 
are connected by a paved conservatory about 15 ft. broad, 
and sufficiently high for its roof to include the first-floor 
windows. This must, of course, have much deteriorated the 
value of the rooms lighted by these windows, and accordingly 
we were informed that they are now only used as ante-rooms, 
everything having been sacrificed to the two grand rooms for 
company. ‘The place, being to let, is in a state of neglect. 

Whitton Place. (See Vol. V. p. 94.) — We saw the tower- 
ing silver cedars from the road, but did not attempt to gain 
admittance to take a nearer view. There are two other 
Whittons here, where we also observed, from the road, some 
very fine cedars, pinasters, Weymouth pines, larches, and 
other pines and firs of the last century. 

Slough Nursery, Messrs. Brown. — ‘This has been a nursery 
of high repute for many years; but we never before had an 
opportunity of examining it. It contains upwards of thirty 
acres, with a number of very neat green-houses and pro- 
pagating pits. The main objects of culture seemed to be 
ornamental plants of the more choice kinds. Mr. Brown is 
also a florist, and has one of the best tulip beds in England; 
second only, we believe, to that of Mr. Groom. ‘The soil is 
admirably adapted for nursery culture; and we do not believe 
it possible to grow things so well in the immediate neighbour- 
hood of London as they are grown here. On the walls of 
the dwelling-house is one of the finest plants of Bignonza 
radicans major we ever saw, now covered with bloom; and a 


524 Notes on Gardens and Countiy Seats :— 


very fine Magnolza grandiflora. ‘There is one of the most 
select collections of heartsease here in the neighbourhood of 
London ; and the demand for this little plant is so great that 
it cannot be supplied. We saw a great many seedling 
phloxes, some of which are very fine. Immense quantities 
of Petunia nyctaginiflora var. grandiflora and P. phoenicea 
are grown for their seeds. Magnolza Soulangeadna grows 
vigorously, and flowers freely ; and the tree is considered a 
decidedly more hardy than M. conspicua. There are holes 
of Cydonia japonica which are covered with flowers the 
greater part of the winter and the whole of the spring; and 
Mr. Brown, jun., is of opinion that this plant will be found, in 
some respects, better adapted for hedges than the common 
hawthorn. ‘The hedges of it in this nursery were quite 
impenetrable. Mr. Brown is celebrated for having raised 
two roses of the Bengal kind, viz., Brown’s celestial and 
Brown’s superb. They are both roses which grow with 
great vigour, and they are peculiarly susceptible of training as 
pyramids. There is here a large stock of that scarce rose, 
the yellow Noisette, obtained by grafting portions of shoots, 
containing only a single bud, on Stade dof Brown’s superb, 
This is an invention of one of the Messrs. Brown. Thescion is 
not above an inch in length, and it is put on the stock, in the 
whip-grafting manner, close by the surface of the ground, 
The stock is of the aed of the former year, and the scion of 
the current year. Excellent and saleable plants are thus 
produced the very first season. There are two very com- 
plete collections of hollyhocks now in flower, one tall and the 
other dwarf. Among numerous things which we noted, but 
have not time to dilate on, were, that seeds of Fachsza globosa 
produced plants quite different from the parent; that seeds of 
the Datura odorata, after being a year in a hot-bed without 
germinating, came up the following year in the open garden, 
when the mould of the hot-bed had been spread about as 
manure; an excellent collection of the dark-coloured nastur- 
tium, said to have been introduced into England by Booth of 
Hamburgh; fine plants of Calandrinia grandiflora, beautifully 
in alowen: and a number of seedling hybrid caprifoliums. 
On the whole, we were highly g eratified with this nursery ; 
and we intend, in future, to visit it frequently. 

The Garden at the Crown Inn, at Slough. — As might be 
expected from the vicinity of Mr. Brown’s nursery, this 
garden is well kept, and is in high order. Among the trees, 
we were pleased to find Magnolza conspicua; and among the 
flowers, Clarkza and the new cenotheras. ‘The gardens at 
the inns at Salt Hill, Maidenhead, and Henley may be held 


Crown Inn Garden, Stoke Place. 525 


out as examples of inn gardens, to innkeepers in every part of 
the kingdom. 

Stoke Place, Col. Vyse. — July 30. ‘The surface is not much 
varied, but the situation is elevated ; commanding the vale of 
Windsor, the towers of the castle, and St. Leonard’s Hill. 
The house is a plain old English structure of brick, and we 
were informed that it can be traced back to the possession of 
one of the cooks of Queen Elizabeth. Its present possessor 
is the author of several important works on military tactics. 
Great improvements have lately been made in the grounds, 
by the present gardener, Mr. Patrick, who has enlarged the 
piece of water; and, with the excavated soil, has beautifully 
undulated the surrounding surface. In doing this, it became 
necessary to earth up elms and cedars, to the height of from 
4 ft. to 8 ft. and it is quite remarkable how little the trees 
have suffered by this severe and dangerous operation. ‘The 
red cedar trees, when thus treated, are found to root into the 
new soil, and to grow with fresh vigour. The elms spread 
their roots to a great distance, and as the earthing up does 
not extend far from their trunks, they may be considered as 
saved by that circumstance. ‘There are some fine old Caro- 
lina poplars here, abounding with mistletoe, which Mr. Pa- 
trick propagates freely, by rubbing the berries into the crevices 
of the rough bark. . Under the surface there is a substratum, 
never thicker than 2 ft., of what is here called ragstone, a 
conglomerate of flinty gravel, generally known as plumpud- 
ding stone, with which Mr. Patrick has judiciously bordered 
the water in some places, and formed rockwork, for plants, and 
for the issue of water in the form of springs, in others. ‘The 
most ornamental parts of these grounds display rustic pedestals 
and plant-vases of very tasteful design, by Mr. Patrick, sketches 
of some of which he has promised to send us. ‘There is a 
circular flower-garden here, surrounded by festooned trellis- 
work, with an open trellis bower in the centre, in Repton’s 
manner; and a great many figures on the lawn (perhaps 
rather too many), designed by Mr. Patrick. Numerous 
green-house plants are sunk in the turf, as at Dropmore, and 
one of the finest plants for making a small flowery tuft on 
grass is found to be the Petunia phoenicea. But by far the 
most interesting feature at Stoke Place is the kitchen-garden, 
formed about four years ago by Mr. Patrick. The soil is of 
a soapy loamy nature, particularly suitable for fruit trees; 
and the consequence is, that the trees now on the walls, though 
only in their fifth suramer from being planted maiden plants, 
cover the walls (which are 12 ft. high), and are loaded with 
fruit. We could hardly have credited this, if we had not seen 


526 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats: — 


it; but this kitchen-garden is the talk of all the gardeners for 
many miles round. Even Mr. Oldacre, who is not hasty in 
giving an opinion, and who has had a great deal of ex- 
perience, allows it to surpass anything of the kind he has 
ever seen. Mr. Patrick trenched all his fruit borders 4 ft. 
deep, without mixing any dung with the soil. This is his 
general practice; and he finds that by it he avoids over- 
luxuriant unripened shoots and the mildew. In consequence 
of his young wood being thus always well ripened, he never 
suffers from frosts in spring. For example, this year he has 
as many apricots on his trees as they can carry; while about 
London the blossom was generally destroyed. Mr. Patrick 
never protects blossom by canvass; but, if at any time he 
finds protection necessary, he merely employs netting sus- 
pended a few inches distant from the trees. It is not to be 
inferred, from all this, that Mr. Patrick never applies manure 
to his fruit borders, or round his fruit trees generally ; but 
he always spreads it on the surface in the way of mulching, in 
order to encourage the fibrous roots to come up, rather than 
to go down. He disapproves of cropping the borders; and, 
though he had crops on some of them, they were very slight 
ones. Where these existed, he pointed out to us how much 
weaker the plants were opposite the centre of each tree, 
where a semicircular space indicated exhaustion by the trees’ 
roots. This effect was more striking in Mr. Patrick’s border 
than in any other that we ever saw, in consequence of the 
tree roots lying so near the surface. However, Mr. Patrick 
has promised us an account of his mode of forming this 
garden, and managing the trees in it; and with that we are 
sure our readers will be much instructed. We cannot help 
noticing a beautiful crop of large morello cherries on standard 
trees, trained like cones, and covered with nets. ‘The morellos 
on the walls, and also the peaches, nectarines, and plums, 
were all thickly studded with fruit. ‘The gardener’s house is 
in the kitchen-garden, centrally situated, so as to overlook 
the whole from the bed-rooms, which are three in number, 
over a parlour, kitchen, and back kitchen. Certain cup- 
boards and other fixtures belong to the house, and therefore 
cost the in-coming occupier nothing: but we would strongly 
recommend to such gardeners as have it in their power, to 
introduce the custom of having all the principal articles of 
furniture, such as tables, chairs, chests of drawers, bedsteads 
and bedding, considered as belonging to the house, to be 
taken to by every occupant, from his master, at a valuation, 
on entering, and taken from him in the same manner at 
leaving. No money need be required to be paid by the 


Stoke Place. 527 


entering gardener till his leaving, when he should merely pay 
to his employer the difference between the first valuation and 
the last. A very little reflection will convince gardeners and 
their employers that this plan would be the best for all 
parties. ‘There are two excellent mushroom houses here, 
with brick arched roofs, Mr. Patrick having found that roofs 
for mushroom houses of which wood forms a part soon rot. 
One of these houses, which is for winter use, is heated with 
hot water; the other, for summer use, is not heated at all. 
In the latter was a very abundant crop, on the surface of a 
covering of clayey loam, like grafting clay, the second spit 
being used in order to avoid worms. ‘The clay is much 
thicker, moister, and harder beaten than is usual among 
mushroom-growers. Mushroom beds treated in this manner 
are a week or two longer in coming into bearing, but they 
last nearly double the time of beds made up in the common 
way. Several pits and houses are heated by hot water on 
the level system, by a single pipe going out near the top of 
an open boiler, and gradually declining in its course, so as 
to enter, on its return, at the bottom. The boiler is drawn 
together at the top to a diameter of eight or ten inches, which 
may be covered with a lid. Where the situation admits, this 
is one of the simplest and cheapest modes that we know of 
circulating hot water. In the front of the house there are 
some fine old cedars; one, with a thick, straight, high top, 
which bears only male blossoms, while all the others have short 
trunks, spread out into numerous arms, and produce seed- 
cones. Mr. Patrick has observed that cedars of the former 
habit are always the handsomest trees. ‘The house has two 
distinct fronts ; and from the entrance front, and the approach 
to it, no idea can be formed of the splendid view which is 
obtained from the lawn front. This, in our eyes, is one of 
the greatest beauties in the management of a country house 
and grounds. ‘The walks were everywhere entirely to our 
taste, having the grass not more than an inch above the level 
of the gravel, and having the verges clipped, and not: cut, 
so that every appearance of newness and workmanship was 
avoided. ‘The family residing abroad, the place was not, in 
other respects, in very high keeping. 

Opposite the entrance gates of this place there is a very 
neat Gothic cottage, having a highly kept lawn, beautifully 
varied with beds of flowers. 

A large, plain, unarchitectural-looking house is building 
on a site called Stoke Cottage, at a short distance from 
Stoke Place. We mention it because we could not help 
being surprised at the want of architectural taste which it 


528 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats. 


displayed, the more remarkable, because there appeared to 
be no want of workmen or of materials. 

There are three classes of persons who build or plant: 
those who have taste enough to form their own designs; those 
who have little taste, but employ artists; and those who are 
without taste, and who concoct their plans with working me- 
chanics, or some other persons in their employ. Three fourths 
of all the building and gardening done in the country is exe- 
cuted in this last manner; and hence it is that we despair of 
any very great improvement in matters of taste till a know- 
ledge of its principles shall become generally diffused: till 
gardeners shall understand the principles of design in garden- 
ing, as well as they now do those of culture; till masons, 
bricklayers, and carpenters shall be as familiar with the com- 
position of forms and lines, as they now are with the cutting 
and fitting of stones, or the trussing of roofs; and, finally, till 
masters and mistresses, and the whole mass of society, under- 
stand the general principles of composition, both in architecture 
and landscape. 

Stoke Park, J. Penn, Esq.— This is a very interesting 
place on many accounts. Its present possessor is the grand- 
son of the celebrated Penn, the founder of the state of Penn- 
sylvania; and, had this gentleman’s father not been a royalist, 
his income from his American possessions, we are informed, 
on the best authority, would now have exceeded six hundred 
thousand pounds a year. Stoke Park is also interesting, as 
being the scene of Gray’s “ Long Story,” and of his cele- 
brated “ Elegy in a Country Churchyard.” The yew trees 
immortalised by the poet are still in existence; but most of the 
“rugged elms” have been cut down. What we principally 
regretted, however, was the removal of nearly all the old 
Elizabethan mansion, which is said to have been one of great 
architectural beauty. Gray was buried in the churchyard; and 
near it, in the grounds, there is a plain massive pedestal, sur- 
mounted by a sarcophagus, erected to his memory. On the 
four sides of the pedestal are four appropriate extracts from his 
Elegy. ‘There is also a monumental column in the park, to 
the memory of Sir Edward Coke, the celebrated lawyer. The 
grounds consist of a considerable extent of table land, from 
which an irregular winding slope descends to the south. 
This slope is very gentle; but it is still sufficient to give the 
walks along the brow, and especially the house, commanding 
views of Windsor Castle and the adjoining country. The 
grounds were first modernised under the direction of Mr. 
Repton, about the time when he and Mr. Main were laying 
out those of Chalfont House; but they have been since 


Reply to Mr. Main’s Rejoinder. 529 


almost entirely changed by Mr. Penn, and his present most 
intelligent gardener and land steward, Mr. Osborne. The 
pleasure-ground is laid out in what may be called the classical 
style of the poet Mason; the forms of the masses of flowers 
and shrubs being generally circular or oval, and each scene 
distinguished by appropriate statues, or busts on therms, like 
those formerly in the flower-garden at Newnham Courtney. 
We hope at some future period to be able to give a plan and 
description of these grounds. The house in the Grecian 
style, and Doric, appears to a stranger remarkably well 
placed, though, like most others built about the same time, 
it wants an architectural basement and appendages. ‘The 
summit is crowned with a cupola, which, from want of show- 
ing deep reveals to the openings, has a temporary air, as though 
it were built of boards, and coloured in imitation of stone. 
The truth is, it was an after-thought, and these are always 
bad. ‘The whole place was in good order. 


(To be continued.) 


Art. II. A Reply to Mr. J. Main’s Rejoinder (p. 283.). By the 
Author of the “ Domestic Gardener’s Manual.” 
Sir, 

I ecHo your words, and assure you that I, too, am much 
obliged by the kindness and good spirit evinced in your re- 
joinder (p. 283.) to my previous paper (p. 186.). It is calm 
yet powerful, argumentative, and eloquent. My reply shall 
be as simple and candid as I can possibly make it. Ours, 
Sir, is no controversy; it is merely an emulation, a mutual 
whetting of ability, a rousing of mental power to discover 
truth, and to present it to the view of others. 

I do not think that I mistook the nature or drift of your 
questions ; but, perhaps, I failed to reply to them in the exact 
manner which you anticipated. Be this as it may, I shall 
now at once meet your present first enquiry, without further 
delay. 

“Can the organic structure of plants be formed by, or out of; 
their juices?” My safest answer, perhaps, would be given 
in the form of another question :— Is there a man living, will 
that man ever exist, who can distinctly point out, and clearly 
show, what the process of assimilation is? I greatly fear that there 
are points which the human intellect never could, never will, 
be able to grapple with. All our knowledge, so styled, is, I 
am strongly inclined to believe, but little more than the just 
appropriation of certain conventional terms. ‘This I shall 

Vou. 1X. — No. 46. M M 


530 Reply to Mr. Main, by the Author 


shortly attempt to exemplify ; but, previously, I must observe 
that, although I cannot by any possibility prove that the se- 
veral components of plants or of animals are formed, pro- 
duced, or generated, by the juices of those plants or animals ; 
yet I deem it to be equally impossible for you to afford 
demonstration that they are not, cannot be, so formed. I 
believe, whatever may heretofore have been your opinion to 
the contrary, that our views of creation or formation, and of 
developement and accretion, are by no means widely dissimi- 
lar: in proof of this, I beg to refer you to the little article on 
spur pruning, in p. 317., particularly to the last part of that 
article in p. 319. ‘Therein you may perceive that I draw a 
complete distinction between creation and stimulation; for I 
observe that the electrical currents stimulate or excite the few 
remaining buds of the shortened shoot; and produce new 
developements from embryoes, preorganised, and existing in 
those shoots. It is my earnest desire to avoid any enquiry 
into first or creative causes. In so doing, we plunge beyond 
our depth, are bewildered and confused: I must content my- 
self, therefore, with observing, that, in all our researches, we 
ought to allow that nothing is impossible. That Power which 
started an organised being into existence might as readily 
provide for the conversion of aliment into fresh parts or 
organs, as decree the original construction of certain vessels 
of nutrition and supply. He might as well ordain that, by 
the operation of certain stimuli, water should be converted 
into fibre, cell, or tube, as that a few of these organs only 
should exist, or at least be discernible, in the infant state of 
the being’s existence. I feel no doubt that you will go with 
me so far; and now, then, having placed ourselves upon 
friendly ground, permit me to direct your attention towards 
two very important subjects for reflection, which, though | 
by no means assert that they demonstrate the conversion of 
aliment into vegetable organ, yet, I think, go very far to- 
wards evincing that the phenomenon is by no means im- 
possible. 

If you refer to Keith’s Physéological Botany, vol. ii. p. 378. 
(edit. of 1816), you will perceive the author’s attempt to 
demonstrate the nature of the change in the cherry induced 
by impregnation, In the year 1830, I perused his article 
repeatedly : I did more; and, calling in the assistance of the 
quick discerning eye of one of the young botanists of my 
family, we undertook a complete detail of experiments upon the 
fructification of the cherry, by means of a powerful and excel- 
lent microscope. 

Permit me, before I proceed, to state that herein, as in 


of the Domestic Gardener's Manual. 531 


every recorded fact, it has been my fate to meet with disap- 
pointment. I never in one instance have found that the 
natural subject discovered those parts or proportions that are 
figured in plates, or detailed in description. There is some 
over-colouring, some mental illusion, some self-imagining, 
that invariably throws one back upon one’s own resources ; 
at least, I, through life, have found it so; — have not you ? 
These uncertainties lead to great perplexity, they sap autho- 
rity, and tend to engender the mental feeling that “ nothing 
is, but what is not.” 

Not to digress farther: on the 7th of April, 1830, we 
opened the first-formed cherry, and found it to correspond 
pretty closely with that described by Keith, May 4.; “inter- 
nally ” (say my notes), the hollow space showed the stone 
and kernel, or the embryo of both, like a transparent little 
pea: the substance was totally unorganised ; it appeared to be 
amass of simple jelly. We pursued our investigations almost 
daily : still, nothing occurred of any material moment. Keith’s 
detail refers from the 4th to the 8th, 12th, 16th of May; then 
he adds, “the tubes and spiral vessels forming the umbilical 
cord, and conducting the sap from the fruit--stalk to the nucleus, 
were seen, by the assistance of a microscope, upon the longi- 
tudinal section of the ovary.” My second note is dated 
April 23. ‘In sixteen days the nucleus has not increased to 
any great extent; from it a greenish yellow skin, or testa, was 
readily detached, leaving the gum inside, a white, tough, 
semitransparent, oval mass, homogeneous in substance, and 
otherwise unorganised. _Noconnection appears to exist with 
the pericarp, nor is any umbilical cord discernible: it (the 
nucleus) detached itself with the utmost facility.” Ishall not 
pursue the investigation farther than to remark, that, on the 
17th May, my examination gave evidence of the existence of 
an embryo, and so far corresponded with Keith’s observation 
under the date of June 4. 

My sincere object is, not to point out the progress of the seed 
of a cherry, or of any other plant, from its first visible formation 
to its state of maturity ; but, to evince that the seed of a plant 
may, and does, afford ample evidence, proof positive, that 
if, de facto, bond fide, it contain within itself the sum total, 
the whole, of the future tree; that is to say, if it comprise all 
the vessels, cells, tubes, leaves, flowers, and fruits of that 
tree, whatever may be its ultimate developements and dimen- 
sions ; it must contain and comprise these great, these vast 
dimensions, these products in perpétuo, all within a vesicle; 
a mere pin’s point of a fluid, as simple, as bland, to all ap- 
pearance, as that of a dewdrop. 

MM 2 


532 Reply to Mr. Main, by the Author 


* Can such things be, 
And overcome us like a summer’s cloud, 
Without our special wonder ?” 


Yet such things are, must be, if that primary atom comprised 
within the first-formed vesicle of a cherry stone, contain each 
and every minute iota of the future developements of the full- 
grown cherry tree, and that, perhaps, for the period of one 
hundred and fifty successive years. I have adduced the 
example of the incipient seed of the cherry, in order to prove 
that a simple drop of bland fluid, which does not afford evi- 
dence of organisation, even under the most powerful of our 
microscopic glasses; is the sole discernible rudiment of a 
future tree. You, Sir, perhaps believe, and may affirm, 
that, in that minute vesicle, all the future organs of the tree 
are existent, as completely so as in their future condition of 
full and complete developement, but in a state of such extreme 
minuteness as not, by any human power, to be discerned nor 
detected. Be it so; I cannot deny the fact, nor do I wish 
to do so: I only contend that the conversion of nutritive fluids 
into organic structure does not, to my faculty, tend to impugn 
the doctrine of rudimental preexistence in the slightest de- 
gree. ‘That Power, I repeat, which could decree the exist- 
ence of a nucleus or rudiment, could not only provide for its 
support and future developements, but for the conversion of 
the nutritive matter (inhaled from without) into the very sub- 
stance and organisation of the future plant. Infinite Wisdom 
could not err, whatever might be the nature or construction 
of the being acted upon, or of the machinery to be employed. 
One more proof of the convertibility of the vegetable juices 
into the positive substance of organised being is, I think, of- 
fered in the vis medicatrix nature, that healing power of 
nature by which wounds are closed and covered. Let the 
limb of a young tree be amputated, let a narrow ring of bark 
be taken off completely around the stem or branch of a tree, 
and you need not be informed that, in a certain period of 
time, the wounded surfaces will, in both cases, be healed and 
covered. ‘The analogy will hold good with respect to the 
animal structure: wounds will heal, cavities produced by 
violence will be filled up by healthy granulations, a new cuti- 
cle will completely cover the surface ; and the vital fluids will 
circulate through the parts thus recently produced, with free- 
dom and precision. Did Nature, when she formed the nucleus, 
that something which you style “rudimental preexistence,” 
—did she, I enquire, include therein, prospectively, the matter, 
“ substance, tubes, cells, or fibres, all and every thing that 
would be required wherewith to heal adventitious wounds ? 
Do you not perceive, my good Sir, that our enquiries are 


of the Domestic Gardener’s Manual. 533 


leading us out of our depth; that we are getting into a fathom- 
less abyss? I think we had better stop short, and avow our 
ignorance; for, verily, all that we have been writing about 
must be referred to an energy of the vital principle, an agent 
whose nature and operations, it never yet has been, and most 
probably never will be, given to man to appreciate and under- 
stand. I quit the subject with this conviction, and I trust it 
may not again be agitated. 

I now finally come to your second position or point of 
enquiry. You assert that, in writing of the elements of vegeta- 
bles, I mean to inculcate that “vegetable food (the constituents 
of water, that is, oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon), in conjunc- 
tion with the vital energies and chemico-electrical influences 
of the earth and atmosphere, goes directly to form new organs.” 

There is a little misapprehension in this statement, parti- 
cularly in your supposing that I have stated carbon to be a 
constituent of water; but this is of no consequence. I main- 
tain solely that organisation may be formed, as well as 
developed, without confusion or anarchy, provided the nature 
primarily bestowed upon the animal or vegetable be such as 
to include such new organisation as a necessary consequence ; 
but I assert nothing, because I know nothing. 

My object is not to revert to a dismissed argument; but 
simply to explain the meaning of a conjecture hazarded at 
the commencement of this paper; namely, that “ knowledge 
is little more than a just appropriation of conventional terms.” 

Those vegetable physiologists who are chemists also, are too 
apt to use the terms of operative or scientific chemistry, when 
they attempt to describe what they designate the components, 
or elements, of the vegetable structure. In fact, such use 
of conventional terms can scarcely at times be avoided; but, 
subsequently to the appearance of my Domestic Gardener's 
Manual, 1 have felt the urgent necessity of duly explaining 
our precise meaning when we apply such terms. I there- 
fore had prepared an explanatory note, which, on reperusal, 
I find to be so “‘ germane” to my present purpose, that I can- 
not avoid quoting it almost verbatim, as it not only will 
elucidate the meaning of the observation referred to, but 
clearly discover the bearing of my own reflections, months 
before I had the pleasure of perusing your sentiments. 

As it is my chief object to elicit truth, and to guard against 
any erroneous conclusion that may be drawn from the results 
of the chemical analysis of vegetable bodies, I must observe, 
that, although such results afford oxygen, hydrogen, and 
carbon, invariably ; the bodies operated upon, while in pos- 
session of the vital principle, do not contain the actual sub- 

MM 3 ‘ 


534 Consideration of Light in its 


stances usually deemed to be their elements. Roots, branches, 
leaves, and fruits, living and growing, are not mere masses of 
oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon. No: they are, in fact, what 
they seem to be, organised beings of a wonderful conformation, 
endowed with life, and with the powers of assimilation and 
nutrition. No effort of the analytic chemist could either 
restore the vital principle, or remodel the structure in which 
it had once produced such astonishing changes. We know . 
that dead vegetable substances are resolvable into divers ele- 
mentary products; but there we stop: our ignorance con- 
strains us to submit to the customary use of terms; and we 
are content with asserting that oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon 
form the basis of most bodies. It would, however, be more 
wise to assert nothing, and to rest satisfied with the discovery 
that vegetable matter is reducible by analysis to certain sub- 
stances. ‘These substances ought, in fact, to be considered the 
products of electro-chemical action upon inert vegetable matter 
simply, and not by any means as constituting the absolute pri- 
mary components of the vegetable being itself, when actuated 
by the vital principle. “ Vegetable chemistry,” ‘chemical 
action of vegetables,” “vegetable elements,” — these, and 
other technical expressions, are, I conceive, neither more nor 
less than conventional terms, by which we express, as well 
as we are able, — Ist, The agency of the vital principle in 
effecting changes during the life of the plant ; and, 2dly, The 
results of this chemical analysis on decomposable vegetable 
remains after the extinction of life. 
With much respect, 
Iam, Sir, your obedient servant, 

Tue Autuor or The Domestic 

August 6. 1833. Gardener's Manual. 


Art. III. A Consideration of the Relations of Light to the perfect 


Display of the Beauties of Form and of Hue in Plants and in 
Flowers. By Anon. 


Tue following observations on the subject of light, more 
especially with reference to the kind of light best adapted to 
the displaying of flowers, have originated in the strikingly dif- 
ferent effect produced by two exhibitions of plants and flowers 
which I lately saw: one collection, exhibited in a room gene- 
rally supposed to be admirably calculated for such a pur- 
pose, received no light but from the roof or dome, and 
that softened by shades; the other, shown in a large, merely 


Relation io the Displaying of Flowers. 535 


whitewashed room, into which the broad glare of daylight 
is admitted by several windows along the sides of the room. 
I have heard many remark how much more brilliant, strik- 
ing, and fresh the plants in the latter appeared, although 
they could not suppose they were in reality more so than 
the plants in the other; but I have not heard any one 
attempt to account for this difference. I think (if I may be 
allowed such a privilege) that the very superior effect of 
the plants in the latter place arose from their receiving the 
light ina simple inartificial manner. I have never considered 
the subject before with regard to flowers, but, from former 
observations on the effect produced on different objects by a 
descending light, I am of opinion that all kinds of forms 
should receive the light as nearly on a level with themselves 
as convenient. ‘The most striking proof of the truth of this 
notion may be educed from the fact, that, since our theatres 
have been lighted by gas fiom the ceiling, the houses have a 
much less brilliant appearance, and the shadows thrown on 
the countenances of the audience detract very much from the 
beauty and from the expression of the whole dress circles. 
The same objection extends to sculpture; which fact, it is 
probable, has been generally ascertained, as I have seldom 
seen it exhibited in such a light. For the public display of 
paintings, a subdued light from above is for many reasons, 
perhaps, the best; but for private collections, where no taste 
or interest but the proprietor’s has to be consulted, a gallery 
or saloon proportioned to the size and number of the pictures, 
where the light is admitted horizontally, and veiled or not at 
pleasure, has many advantages. ‘The effects of light and 
shade produced by the receding mists of morning, the gay 
and sunny rays of noon, or the sobered hue of twilight, give 
a variety and reality to the objects, which is seldom observed 
in the usual mode of exhibition. Still, painting and other 
works of art, in which will always be found more or less of 
imperfection, may occasionally derive great advantages from 
the mode of lighting usually adopted. Architecture, how- 
ever perfect, never looks so grand and beautiful as in twilight 
or moonlight. On the other hand, no light is too strong for 
a fine landscape, or for flowers, the loveliest productions of 
nature: they require no artificial means either to enhance 
their beauties, or veil their imperfections. Ido not know if 
I have made myself clear; but I mean to imply, generally, 
that the beauties of nature should be exhibited without any 
artificial means ; works of art according to their form, &c., 
and the particular object the artist has in view. 

ANON. 

mm 4 


536 Hints to Gardeners 


WE agree entirely with the general sentiments expressed 
by our correspondent, viz., that brilliant objects like flowers 
should be displayed under the full influence of bright light, 
received not only from above, but from the sides; paintings, 
on the contrary, are seen to the greatest advantage where the 
light proceeds chiefly from above, as any one may observe by 
looking at the pictures in a room where the windows are 
down to the ground. As our correspondent is evidently a 
man of cultivated taste, we should wish to hear further from 
him on subjects of this kind.— Cond. 


Art. 1V. Hints to Gardeners, incentive to their educating them- 


selves in a Knowledge of English Grammar, and of other Subjects 
of essentialiy useful Knowledge. By Mr. Witi1AmM Taytor. 


Sir, 

Tue followig remarks are neither for the information, 
edification, nor exhortation of any of the writers in this 
Magazine; but of those of its readers only (and it is to be 
hoped they are not very numerous) who use such phrases as, “I 
seed them plants, and axt their names.” Some twenty years 
ago a class of gardeners, of different orders as to intellect, 
set out in quest of their business, but with a very limited 
stock of education, viz., a smattering of reading, writing, 
and arithmetic. ‘They perhaps used all the means in their 
power to gain an empirical knowledge of the business, but 

neglected to improve themselves in education. Hence we 
not unfrequently hear the above and similar ludicrously in- 
correct language used by naturally clever men in respectable 
situations: yes, by men who have read more of the fashion- 
able novels of the day, and the like fascinating books, than 
they have of books on horticulture and the sciences con- 
nected therewith. ‘They will approve, or rather condemn, 
sciences, creeds, and systems, “* and all them sort of things,” 
gratis ; while, at the same time, you can easily discover, los 
it cannot be hidden, that they have not so much as read an 
Enelish grammar. 

The mistaken notions that © English grammar is not worth 
a dog’s dance without Latin,” that ce cannot be acquired 
without a teacher, and that chance speaking and writing are 
quite sufficient, have prevented many a young man from self- 
acquiring a knowledge of it. My advice to them is simply 
this, — give over reading of novels, and if you have been 
foolish enough (I speak from a little experience) to pur- 
chase any books that will not bear a second reading, sell 


on Self-education. 537 


them, and buy Lennie’s Grammar and Key and Walker’s 
Pronouncing Dictionary, and give a part of your after-hours 
to the studying of them; say an hour at night, less or more, 
according to circumstances ; ‘and, if you have any taste or in- 
clination 1 to improve, they will be found much more beneficial, 
and afford more real satisfaction, than any time-passing 
amusement whatever. A grown-up person, not past the 
meridian of life, of no great grasp of mind, with a common 
share of common sense, and the Key tne a teacher, may 
attain a tolerable knowledge of the language in less time than 
it takes to grow a pine-apple. However, ‘he must not expect 
to be able to communicate his ideas in such “ laconic elo- 
quence,” and with so much perspicuity and freedom from 
ambiguity, as those with A. M., &c., attached to their names, 
who have, as it were, served a time to learning languages. 

But to return: you will begin at the beginning “of the 
Grammar, and commit to memory all the larger pr int ; ; read 
the notes carefully, and when you are at a loss turn to the 
respective place of the Key. You will find no difficulty until 
you come to the verbs, which are the driest part of the con- 
cern, and, like vulgar fractions, easily learned and soon for- 
gotten : wererihelese. they ought to be learned and under- 
stood, otherwise you will find them plaguy things when you 
get to syntax, because they must agree with their neighbours, 
&c. I think myself better at pruning, erafting, or measuring a 
tree than at conjugating verbs, ecitse I earned: or ie 
began to learn, the former seven years before the latter. As 
pronunciation is a part of grammar, it should be studied 
along with it. Walker’s Pronouncing Dictionary, if not the 
best, is one of the best; and although its ‘* principles” are 
too long to be got by heart, they should be often perused, 
the doing of which will enable you to remember some of the 
shorter tules, as, ‘& is always silent in the same syllable 
before n,” &c. The key, or sounds of the vowels, which are 
along the top of each page, should be committed to memory, 
not forgetting to pay particular attention to the rules for 
accentuation, “and to those to be observed by the people who 
take for their emblem the thistle, the shamrock, and even the 
rose. 

Trifling as this subject may appear to some, the greatest 
of men have learned it, and are guided by its rules; and 
without it we cannot distinguish good from bad phrases, nor 
proper from improper pronunciation. Whatever we profess 
to know, and however well bred we may wish to be, if we 
cannot express ourselves in any better terms than an illiterate 
labourer or stable-boy, we are liable to be misunderstood, 


538 Fountains in Gardens. 


and are always disagreeable to our superiors in education 
and rank of life. And, above all, let us endeavour to keep 
pace with the improvements and fashions ofthe day in all 
things connected with our calling, else we are sure to be left 
behind, and of course laid aside like an old tailor out of 
fashion. Then there are botany, mensuration, book-keeping, 
chemistry, geography, drawing, history, and all useful, yea, 
more, indispensable; for we must “ weigh opinions,” and 
give reasons for all we do, nowadays. Not that we are 
obliged to reply to every one’s “* Why?” which is now the 
order of the day: but that is no good reason why we should 
not be capable of answering those who have a right to ask. 
Time was when it was thought no person had a right to ask 
another any thing of his business, because it was his property, 
he had paid for it: some think so still, and are possessed of 
some grand secrets that they would not reveal “ for a world 
of potatoes.” Well, they should read (but they are too 
knowing to do that) the Outlines of Horticulture and the 
Botanic Annual, which will convince them that others know 
something too. When I get time, I shall send you some 
hints on the utility of mensuration to gardeners; but I am 
afraid you will think the wind blows too keen from the 
north. I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

W. Taytor. 
Thainston, Aberdeenshire, July, 1833. 


Art. V. On Fountains in Gardens ; with a Design ( fig. 120.). 
By W. Mason, Jun. Esq. 
Sir, 

I am truly happy to see, in your Magazine (p. 208.), that 
the subject of those finishing ornaments of the gardenesque, 
fountains, are brought forward for discussion. I have often 
felt mortified, in my walks through our London squares, to 
think that opulent English peers and merchants should so 
often visit and admire foreign towns, and then return home 
without attempting to rival the beauties they have wit- 
nessed in them. What is the finish wanted in Grosvenor 
Square but a magnificent fountain, that, by the power of 
steam, should throw its lofty waters 60 ft. into the air; and, 
by the motion thus imparted to the atmosphere, the brilliant 
glistening of its jet, and the composing murmur of its con- 
tinuous fall, increase the fragrance of the mignonette and 
other sweet-smelling plants, and, in various ways, add a most 
desirable enjoyment to that magnificent area. A fountain 


540 Fountains in Gardens. 


rate, levied during the summer months upon the distin- 
guished and rich individuals inhabiting this square, would 
scarcely be felt. ‘The same observation will apply to other 
squares, the size or grandeur of the fountains varying, of 
course, with the purses of the surrounding occupants. The 
whole might be done by contract; and the smoky air of the 
city be somewhat relieved in the vicinity of each fountain. 
Had Mr. Nash been an architect equal to such ideas, we 
should have seen something of the kind during the last reign: 
but, though he has done much for West London, his know- 
ledge of the sources of the sublime and beautiful seems to 
be contracted. 

When I first visited Mr. Rowley, the ingenuity of his 
fountains could not fail to please, as much as their diminu- 
tiveness provoked a smile; some of them giving one more the 
idea of a magnificent squirt than of a fountain. I ventured 
to recommend his crossing the Channel, to see the grandes 
eaux at Versailles on a fete day ; and thought that he would 
then, peradventure, incite his employers to “better things ; and 
that a demand for simple and grand fountains might Pe the 
consequence. 

I may appear fastidious; but I cannot like the air of a 
fountain encompassed by a plain walled reservoir, as in the 
sketches of the fountains, figs. 68. and 69. (p. 215, 216.) 
Your friend the Young Architect will, I am sure, on consider- 
ing the point maturely, yield to my flat stone coped reservoir 
of the design sent herewith (fg. 120.); which coping, in foun- 
tains of a rich and sculptured character, might, by diversity of 
form, be made to harmonise. 

I intend, in my next communication, if this meets with 
approval, to undertake a methodised arrangement of these 
garden ornaments. I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

Wiruram Mason, Jun. 
Nacton, Norfolk, June, 1833. 


SucH a methodised arrangement as that mentioned by our 
correspondent would be a valuable addition to garden litera- 
ture; and we shall be extremely obliged to him for it. We 
have lately seen some of the most splendid flower-gardens in 
England, to which fountains that had the water raised to a 
great height by steam or otherwise would be most appro- 
priate ornaments. Asan example near town, we may refer to 
Lady Amherst’s flower-gardens, at Montreal, near Seven 
Oaks, in Kent, which garden we visited in the course of a 
seven weeks’ tour, completed yesterday (Sept. 16.).— Cond. 


Saul’s Garden Chair. 541 


Art. VI. Notice of Saul’s Garden Chair, with Remarks on the 
Principles of Design with reference to Chairs of this Kind. By 
Mr. M. Saut and the Conpucror. 


Sir, 

You will receive with this a chair (jg. 121.), for which I 
hope you will be able to find a spare corner in your garden. 
The seat is of wood, and the back and feet are of iron, cast 
in the form of leaves, of the acanthus, thistle, or artichoke 
kind. The whole chair is painted of a deep green. ‘These 
chairs are sold at 16s. each. They may be made with a 
more ornamented back, when they will cost a little more; or 
with one foot less, when they will cost not quite so much. 

Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 
Lancaster, June 29. 1833. M. Saut. 


WE have placed this chair under a tree in our garden; 
and we have figured it, both for the sake of obliging our inge- 
nious and indefatigable correspondent, Mr. Saul, and because 
we think we can make some observ- 
ations on it which may be useful to 
our readers. We enter our protest 
against this chair, in point of taste, 
for the following reasons: — The 
seat appears to be supported by 
leaves, not springing from a root, as 
leaves generally do, but standing 
separately on the ground; or coming 
out of the ground separately, with- 
out any appearance of stems, roots, 
or buds, which is never the case 
in nature. ‘The back is formed of 
three leaves of the same description, 
which, comparatively speaking, seem 
to arise naturally enough out of the seat, as the leaves of a 
calyx do from the base of a flower. Our principal objection, 
therefore, is to the manner in which the seat is supported by 
single and unconnected leaves. When nature is imitated by 
art, there ought always to be, in the object produced, at least a 
semblance of truth; for, though no leaves of the kind shown, 
however placed, could actually support a seat of this kind; 
yet, if they had been made to spring from a root or stem un- 
derneath the seat, and spread out under it on every side, like 
the leaves of the capital of a column, they would have had. 
much more the appearance of communicating support. Still, 
as a garden chair, we should not have approved of the design ; 
because, in a garden or pleasure ground, where all around is 


542 Saul’s Garden Chair. 


leaves and green, there is a degree of dullness and monotony 
in introducing leaves and green as objects of art. We would 
rather have had some architectural or artificial form, and 
certainly would have had that form of any colour rather than 
green, unless, perhaps, blue. A stone colour would unques- 
tionably contrast best with those of vegetation and the sky. A 
garden seat composed of natural forms painted in their natural 
colours, we consider to rank about the same scale in art as 
a model of the human figure in coloured waxwork: both 
mimic nature, instead of imitating her. To those of cur 
readers who wish to pursue this subject, and who understand 
French, we recommend the LZssaz sur l’ Imitation dans les 
Beaux Arts, of Quatremére de Quincy. Thete is no correspond- 
ing work in the English language ; but in our Encyclopedia of 
Architecture we have discussed the object of imitation, as far as 
that art is concerned ; and in our forthcoming Encyclopedia of 
Landscape: Gardening we shall have an opportunity of further 
considering and applying the subject. We shall only add, at 
present, that it is one of so much importance in all the arts 
of taste, that no designer, whether of houses or gardens, or 
even of garden furniture, ought to neglect the study of it. 

The above was put in type in July, to the end of being 
published in the Number for August, but want of room 
prevented the admission of it. We, however, submitted to 
Mr. Saul, shortly after receiving his present and communi- 
cation, the amount of the above strictures on the subject. 
Mr. Saul has since, in a letter dated August 4. 1833, in- 
formed us of his having devised another chair, in which the 
seat is supported by legs cast to the pattern of a vine branch, 
in full bearing of leaves and fruit, and with the depending 
clusters of fruit made to be removable at pleasure, so as to 
have them either green, red, or black, according to the time 
of the year. The leaves for the back remain the same as 
those in jig. 121., except that each of the two outside ones is 
tipped with a sprig of vine bearing a couple of leaves, and 
the central leaf of the back is surmounted by some floral 
device. Mr. Saul has added: — ‘I have raised a bank about 
15in. high, so that I can put plants of different kinds in 
flower in pots under the seat, without their appearing to be 
in pots, and which have a pleasing effect behind the leaves 
and fruit of the vine branches. Behind the chair are taller 
plants, to show themselves in and relieve the intervals of the 
leaves of the chair’s back. On each side of the bank I have 
placed a number of natural stones, which I have collected 
from different parts of the neighbourhood, and these have a 
good effect.” We like this design still less than the odie:. 
— Cond, 


On planting the Evergreen Oak near the Coast. 548 


Art. VII. The Fitness of the Evergreen Oak (Quércus ex) for 
planting near the Sea Coast, in Groups, for Ornament ; and a 
Comparison of its Fitness with that of the Cluster Pine (Pinus 
Pinaster), for a Nurse to Plantations on the Sea Coast: followed 
by a Description of St. Michael's Mount, near the Land’s End, 
Cornwall. By Mr. T. RuTceEr. 


Sir, 

Permit me to recommend the Quércus J‘lex, or evergreen 
oak, to the notice of your readers, as valuable for planting 
near the sea coast, either in groups for ornament, or as a 
nurse for the plantation. In the latter point of view, per- 
haps, the pinaster (Pinus Pinaster) may be considered by 
some as preferable, being more rapid in its growth; and for 
deep plantations I should be inclined to favour it, not only 
on account of its being the fastest grower, but because a 
large supply can be more easily obtained, at a much less 
expense; but as a breastwork, for either deep plantations or 
belts, I should favour the ilex, as being by far more orna- 
mental, as well as lasting, and for having the advantage, also, 
of feathering down, and forming a thick mass of foliage, 
nearly impenetrable to the eye, which is of considerable 
advantage in belt planting, and in which the pinaster fails in 
its advanced state of growth. With regard to the properties 
of the ilex, it shares an equal, if not a greater, degree of 
indifference to the sea air with the pinaster, which is fully 
proved in the west of Cornwall in numerous instances. My 
attention was first drawn to this, some years since, by observ- 
ing a broken row of ilexes, of above eighty years’ growth, at 
Clowance, the seat of Sir John St. Aubyn, Bart., where they 
now stand, and constitute a valuable protection to the plant- 
ation in the rear. About the grounds there are also several 
handsome groups of them, of about forty years’ standing, 
which are much admired by visiters, and form a pleasing 
feature among other evergreens, and trees of more stately 
growth. The pinaster is well known in Cornwall, and much 
sought after by gentlemen who are forming new plantations, 
to plant principally as nurses to the more valuable kinds of 
trees. When they are planted to stand by themselves, either 
in groups, belts, or large plantations, unless they are kept 
properly thinned during their growth, premature old age 
ensues, and they make but a sorry appearance at the end of 
forty or fifty years. Cases of this kind have occurred where 
a few ilexes were sprinkled among the pinasters, the latter of 
which are gone to decay, leaving the former healthy and 
vigorous, and promising tair to be of long standing. 


5A: On planting the Evergreen Oak near the Coast. 


About half a century ago, the pinaster was introduced on 
St. Michael’s Mount, where they grew rapidly for some 
years, and formed a prominent feature, when viewed at a dis- 
tance, on that beautifully romantic spot; but in about thirty 
years they began to decline; and, at forty years from the 
time they were planted, there was scarcely a vestige of 
them left. About three years ago, the ilex was introduced 
there in several groups, disposed in such a way as was thought 
advantageous for embellishment ; and on my visit, late in the 
autumn of last year, I was much pleased to find them in a 
thriving state, and in every way answering to my wishes as 
well as expectations. 

St. Michael’s Mount, the property of Sir John St. Au- 
byn, Bart., is situate about thirteen miles from the Land’s 
End, in Mount’s Bay, and is surrounded by the sea six or 
seven hours out of twelve. When the tide is out, it may be 
approached from the small town of Marazion, over a cause- 
way of about a quarter of a mile in length, which is raised 
above the level of the common bed of sand, and composed of 
pebbles and shingle. It is about a mile in circumference at 
the base, and about 250 ft. in height from the sand which 
lies around it to the summit of the tower which crowns its 
tip. The rock is chiefly composed of granite, and is of a 
conical figure, which gradually diminishes from its broad 
cragey base to its summit, on which stands what is called 
‘“‘ the castle,” consisting of the remains of the ancient mo- 
nastic buildings, which were considerably altered by the late 
proprietor, and have been greatly embellished by the present 
possessor. ‘The whole forms a pyramidal appearance, such 
as to excite in the mind, the instant it is beheld, sensations of 
the greatest veneration and astonishment. (jg. 122.) There 
are many rocks of gigantic dimensions, which are totally, while 
others appear but partially, separated from the tremendous 
mass on which the buildings rest. When viewed from different 
directions, the whole presents a diversity of aspects: in some 
places nearly perpendicular; in others, of gentle acclivity ; 
and where there are no rocks, it is covered with verdure, 
which increases on the northern and eastern sides down to 
its base, so as, in one part, to nearly form a plain. - The 
part over which the visiter has to walk, until he approaches 
the rock, is of gentle ascent. When he begins to ascend 
more rapidly, it is by a rocky winding path on the north 
side, having huge pendent rocks on his left, and precipices 
on his right.. Farther on, there are two gun batteries on the 
right; on leaving which, he winds to the left, and ascends a 
rough flight of broken steps, some natural and others arti- 


mmilfia SS 


SS 
Ne 


= = J iy . 


Hiigiigil6 fii 


[sz x 7 nN = a B 
~—= Fer ly 18 Pie Bee DER an ane 


att RE it 1m it 
So Se <a a fn f 
: R AK = it { t Et MV SE STU esr 
SA ean OS wer ee ni er wen PATI S = aS 
SSAC SiS SE Se itea we a eee eamens = 
= : Se =e 


a 


VoL. IX, noe No. 46. 


546 On planting the Evergreen Oak near the Coast. 


ficial, which brings him up to the entrance of the building, 
within which he will find a suite of apartments containing 
numerous relics of antiquity, and a chapel fitted up in a neat 
style of elegance, with a magnificent organ, all of which will 
be found to far exceed his expectations. On reaching the 
top of the tower, an immense prospect opens to view, and is 
perhaps as striking as any that can appear to “ mortal eye.” 
“The immense extent of sea,” says Dr. Maton, “ raises the 
most sublime emotions: the waves of the British, Irish, and 
Atlantic seas all roll within compass of the sight,” while the 
eye is released from the uniform, though imposing, grandeur 
of so boundless an horizon, by wandering on the north and 
west over a landscape which Claude himself might have 
transfused on his canvass. At the base, on the northern 
side, is a small town, which comprises about 250 inhabitants ; 
and also a commodious pier, which will contain upwards of 
fifty sail of small vessels. On the south side, fully exposed 
to the wide expanse of the ocean, is a small garden (jig. 123.), 


Lee : A a, Plantation of elm 
is) ee y ae ' * ‘trees, 
b, Plantation, consisting 
5 of elms and tama- 
& = risks. 
S&S c, Rock. 
a i d, Brick wall. 


€, Strawberry garden. 


fae J; Dwarf wall, not shown 


in the elevation (jig. 


122.), to avoid con- 
fusion. 


ee 


iy 
' 
i g, Flower-garden. 
L. 


Se UW enn 


(oP erees an Ee ne eT -—-  h, Wall and railing. 
re SU ig See aged ane ence aii ~ #, Tool-house or sum- 
mer-house. 
: k, Flower-garden. 
9 a u Ge x 4o oft , 


in three compartments, raised one above another ; _above 
which all is rock, and nearly perpendicular all the distance 
up to the base of the buildings, through the interstices of 
which the ivy is seen to make its way, covering in patches 
a great part of it. In this garden several sorts of fruits 
have been matured, such as the peach, nectarine, plum, 
&c., with strawberries. of the most delicious flavour ; and 
there is now a myrtle tree in it of many years’ standing. 
Other half-tender exotics might, no doubt, be introduced 
here with safety, particularly such as have no objection to 
saline particles falling on them, as this must frequently occur 
in stormy weather. On the western side the garden is pro- 
tected by some stunted Dutch or cork-barked elms (U’Imus 
suberdsa); and on the east by a few elms and some fine 


Eiffects of Wind on Trees. 547 


French tamarisks (Tamarix gfllica), the trunks of which are 
of a large size. ‘There are also a few cork-barked elms on 
the north side, near the summit of the hill, at the base of the 
buildings. The elder (Sambucus nigra) is likewise inter- 
spersed here in great abundance, and, with the others, gives a 
pleasing feature to this side of the mount during the summer 
season. 

To the botanist the Mount will not be altogether barren 
of amusement and study; as, among the many large and 
scattering rocks down towards its base (some of which are 
partly embedded in the soil, while others lie on its surface), 
the variety of plants is considerable, among which are to be 
seen the Asplénium marinum, Statice Arméria, Znula He- 
lénzwm, Senécio Jacobze'a, &c., with a profusion of Borago 
officinalis, wild hyacinths, and narcissuses, which, during their 
season of flowering, give a pleasing variety to the whole. 

Such as feel disposed to become better acquainted with 
this venerable monument of antiquity may be referred to the 
Guide to the Mount’s Bay and the Land’s End, by a Physician, 
published in 1824, in which the author gives its natural, 
ecclesiastical, and military history; also its geology, and the 
minerals with which it abounds. The reader will also find a 
description of the climate in Mount’s Bay, with a pretty con- 
siderable list of acclimatised exotics; also a list of indigenous 
plants of western Cornwall, with many other particulars 
interesting to both the gardener and botanist, as well as to 
those whose scientific researches are of another description. 

I shall close this article in the language of a more recent 
writer, who says, that, ‘‘ to the mineralogist, the antiquary, 
the historian, the poet, and the painter, St. Michael’s Mount 
will ever be an object of particular interest and real satis- 
faction.” I am, Sir, yours &c. 

T. Rutcer. 
Shortgrove, Essex, Jan. 1833. 


Pea 


Art. VIII. A Notice of the Effects of Wind on Trees growing on 
the Coast near Poole, Dorsetshire. By the Rev. W. B. CLarke. 
Sir, 

Tue prevailing winds on the coast of Dorsetshire are from 
the south-west. The effects of these winds upon vegetation 
are remarkably evident in the direction of the branches of 
the trees which have been exposed in unsheltered situations. 
I send you herewith profiles of six oaks (figs. 124, 125, 126.), 


selected from nearly two dozen standing together, on the 
NN 2 


548 Effects of Wind on Trees 


L 
N.E. 


boundary of Canford Heath, near Wimborne, and on the 


estate of the Hon. W. F.S. Ponsonby, M.P. I am told 


N.E. s.W. 


that there are still more striking instances of such influence 
near Lymington, in Hampshire, though I do not remember 


NE. 


growing on the Coast near Poole. 549 


to have observed them. ‘The curious old oak tree in the 
cliff above eae Marsh, in this parish, has, I believe, been 

noticed elsewhere: 
“Se ae of this, however, I 
eK <3 send you also a 
sketch (fig. 127.), 
drawn in a heavy 
gale from the south- 
west; so pardon it. 
There are also other 
trees in low situ- 
ations, exposed to 
IF the winds on the 
a #2 \=w shore of Poole Har- 
(2 hour, which have 
been similarly affected: but among the oaks at Canford there 
grow two holly trees the branches of which are wanting 
to the north-east, and to the south-west are full and strong. 
I know nowhere such examples of the influence of the wind 
as the trees in the high heath lands in this vicinity exhibit. 
The direction of the branches of the trees out of which these 
sketches (figs. 124. to 126.) have been selected is, as taken 
by compass, from south-west to north-east, the foliage being 
in the latter quarter. Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 


W. B. CLARKE. 


Parkstone, near Poole, Dorsetshire, 
September 13. 1832. 


Tue subject proposed to consideration in this and the preceding com- 
munication is one of great interest ; that of decorating, with those pleasing 
pictures, shrubs and trees, the landscapes of the coast, which, in cases 
numerous enough, are unornamented by them. Mr. Clarke’s communi- 
cation shows that in some situations there will be great difficulty in rearing 
trees and shrubs to effect this object; and Mr. Rutger’s paper teaches, 
from experience, the serviceableness of the evergreen oak and cluster pine 
towards effecting the end desired. Mr. Rutger also imparts other hints on 
the subject, which merit close attention. 

I may here append a short list of trees and shrubs of species very 
common, yet for the most part suitably tenacious of growth, which, six 
years or more ago, I noted down from information supplied to me by 
brother-gardeners who had lived on the coast of Suffolk. My attention 
to, and enquiries on, the subject had been previously excited by hearing a 
gentleman complain of the difficulty he had experienced in furnishing his 
coast grounds with thriving shrubs and trees, and from my having once 
visited the coast at Aldborough (Suffolk), where it is treeless, shrubless, 
moorlike, and ungratifying, save in the amplitude and magnificence of 
ocean here obvious to the eye, and the interest excited by the numerous 
passing vessels which, in their course to the northward and the southward, 
plough its surface. , 

NN 3 


550 Liffects of Wind on Trees. 


Trees. — Common elm, common wych, willow, Huntingdon willow, oak, 
poplar, aspen, hazel, ash, wild cherry, hornbeam, birch, maple, service, 
lime, yew, sycamore, Scotch pine, larch, spruce fir, Weymouth pine, cluster 
pine, horsechestnut, Spanish or sweet chestnut, alder, elder, laburnum, 
plane, holly. 

Shrubs. — Tamarisk, A’triplex Halimus, A’triplex portulacdides, Bu- 
pletrum fruticdsum, Riscus aculeatus under tall trees, common dogwood 
(Cornus sanguinea), common spindle wood (Huénymus europz‘us), 
common broom, and the furze. 

This list is doubtless susceptible of correction and extension, and these 
acts, I hope, will be performed on it by correspondents. Perhaps there is 
no subject better worth their teaching others upon, than the best means of 
converting a dreary and desert-like coast into a richly furnished landscape ; 
that those whose property or duties may require them to reside in spots so 
little favoured naturally (some coasts are charmingly planted independently 
of man), may draw and establish round their dwelling-place the beauties of 
vegetable nature. However common the species named above, or others 
which correspondents yet may mention, may be, such are more valuable at 
first than choicer kinds; because, from their hardihood and usual tenacious- 
ness of growth, they are more likely to thrive in unindulgent soils and 
situations. When these are well established, choicer kinds may be reared 
beneath their shelter. But, common as I call them, they seem to in- 
clude among themselves nearly all the kinds on which Cowper has thus 
pleasingly remarked : — 


“ Attractive is the woodland scene, 
Diversified with trees of every growth, 

Alike, yet various. Here the grey smooth trunks 
Of ash, or lime, or beech, distinctly shine 

Within the twilight of their distant shades. 

No tree in all the grove but has its charms, 

Though each its hue peculiar ; paler some, 

And of a wannish grey: the willow such, 

And poplar, that with silver lines his leaf, 

And ash far stretching his umbrageous arm ; 

Of deeper green the elm; and deeper still, 

Lord of the woods, the long-surviving oak. 

Some glossy-leaved, and shining in the sun; 

The maple, and the beech of oily nuts 

Prolific, and the lime at dewy eve 

Diffusing odours: nor unnoted pass 

The sycamore, capricious in attire, 

Now green, now tawny, and, ere autumn yet 

Have changed the woods, in scarlet honours bright.” 
Cowper's Task, book 1. 


Of the names of trees and shrubs contained in my brief list above, the 
greater part was told me by Mr. Joseph Malpas, jun., of Michaelstow Hall 
gardens, Ramsey, near Harwich; who remarked that the Spanish or sweet 
chestnut is the pride of all the timber trees in that neighbourhood ; that 
there are most magnificent specimens of it existing thereabouts; and that 
its wood is a good deal used there, and deemed almost equally durable and 
valuable with that of the oak itself. Should correspondents be pleased to 
follow up this subject, they will doubtless notify, in each coast neighbour- 
hood on which they may report, the kind or kinds of tree or shrub which 
thrives the most perfectly; and notice, in connection with such instance, 
the soil, and more particularly winds, which most prevail there. — J. D. 


Suggestion for a National Arboricultural Society. 551 


Art. 1X. The Formation ef a National Society for the Pro- 
motion of Arboriculture suggested ; and Hints on the Disease 
prevailing in Plantations of the Larch Tree communicated. By 
Mr. James Munro. 


“ There is a pleasure in the pathless woods.” Byron. 
Sir, 

Ir is now nearly two years since I became a constant 
reader of this Magazine: during which period I have often 
had to regret that, while communications tending to promote 
the interests of horticulture have poured in upon you from 
every quarter, arboriculture has seemed to be totally disre- 
garded. Now, Sir, to what cause can we attribute this 
torpitude of feeling toward this valuable branch of rural eco- 
nomy in practical men; as well as in those from whom better 
things are to be expected, the landowners? ‘The only reason 
seems to be, the want of this great desideratum, a society 
exclusively for the promotion of arboriculture: from such an 
institution much may be reasonably expected. ‘The import- 
ant improvements which have been effected in our systems of 
horticulture and agriculture since the establishment of their 
respective societies in this country, and the fact, so obvious, 
that we are deeply indebted to the impetus given by these 
societies to the spirit of enquiry and improvement in various 
branches of domestic economy, make it appear somewhat 
unaccountable that a society exclusively for the promotion 
of arboriculture has not been established even years ago. 
That a national sylvan society would be productive of results 
as important as either of the other societies have been in 
their respective departments, will not admit of a doubt: nay, 
the high pitch to which horticulture and agriculture have 
arrived, warrant the conclusion that, if we had a more com- 
prehensive means for collecting arboricultural information 
than we at present have, we should be put in possession of 
many valuable hints from persons employed in the manage- 
ment of woods; which hints, otherwise, may perish with 
those who can and would communicate them. It will be 
admitted that our planting interest, in point of importance, 
stands next to that of agriculture: but why it has been 
denied the benefit of a separate focus for the concen- 
tration of the widely scattered rays of information, while 
horticulture has been so long indulged with this advantage, 
is a problem which I leave for solution to the landed pro- 
prietors; who, in this instance, lose, and have lost, sight of 
the pound in search of the penny. There certainly can be no 


greater source of enjoyment to a country gentleman than that 
NN 4 


e 


552 Hints on the Disease 


of attending to his woods, and beholding them in a prosperous 
and well-regulated condition. When he casts his eyes upon 
a woodland coeval with himself, and now far upward sprung, 
while he, apygmy, gazes from beneath, to wide-spread branches 
‘“‘ that embrown the day,” there is a sublimity in the contem- 
plation which every other pursuit fails to produce. ‘“ There 
is a pleasure in the pathless woods,” which every ardent ad- 
mirer of sylvan progression cannot fail to appreciate: yet, 
with all the allurements of which practical forestry is pos- 
sessed, how very few there are who avail themselves of this 
most rational species of enjoyment! The greater proportion 
of our woods, from neglect.and mismanagement, appear as if 
they belonged to nobody. It is no uncommon sight to see 
nurse and nursling allowed to grow up together, locked in 
each other’s arms, as if it were intended they should never be 
parted ; till the famished parent earth groans under the cum- 
brous load, and the want of air and scanty nourishment 
conspire to hurry on a precocious maturity. Whence the cause 
of this neglect ? I should suppose it to lie in the want of a 
properly constituted system of management. Were I asked 
for a remedy, I would answer, let a national society be fermed 
without delay. Such an institution, with royalty for its 
patron, would call to its aid such a host of scientific and 
practical men as could not fail shortly to promulgate a system 
of management upon which wood proprietors could depend, 
and act with safety. ‘That such a measure will soon force 
itself upon the notice of the planting public, I have little 
doubt; for, although it must be admitted that there are a few 
who keep their woods in a tolerable state of order, yet, 
generally speaking, the forester is found without a regular 
system, and acting at random: the ill effects of which are 
yearly becoming more apparent; and of which a stronger 
proof need not be adduced than the actual condition which 
our larch plantations are in at the present day. Here disease 
is making alarming advances; and, if something is not speedily 
done, the probable consequence is, the extermination from our 
soil of this seemingly degenerated species. 

In offering a few observations on the probable causes of 
disease in the larch, I feel fully alive to my inability to handle 
a subject of so grave importance as this is, and as it ought 
to be considered: nay, my inexperience might justify the 
charge of presumption, were it not that the only aim which 
I have in view is, to endeavour to divert a portion of that 
flood of talent which streams through the pages of this Ma- 
gazine, from the already fertilised fields of horticulture, into 
the rough channels of the too much-neglected science of 


prevalent in Larch Plantations. 553 


arboriculture: in short, to draw the attention of some able 
arboriculturist to the subject, and, if possible, induce the pro- 
prietors of woods to take into their serious consideration 
what so immediately concerns their interests. 

Since the introduction of larch to this country, somewhere 
between 1730 and 1740, I conceive that three eras have 
occurred. First, the introduction of it; then its occupancy 
of a situation in the garden and the shrubbery ; and, lastly, 
its general use in plantations. The first are what may 
be termed the original larches; and, so far as I know, 
disease has not been observed in any one of them. Under 
the second era, commencing about seventy years ago, the 
hardy nature of the tree came to be better understood. At 
this period, it was partially diffused over the country on 
select spots: among these trees prevails the disease called 
pumping, and it will be found to exist, in various degrees of 
extent, in every district of the country where such plantations 
are- But the most unfortunate era for larch seems to be the 
third, commencing from twenty-five to thirty years ago, when 
the mania for cheap and seedling planting spread over the 
island. The hardy constitution of the larch having been 
fully ascertained, it was planted out from the seed-bed in 
millions, in every soil and situation. Amongst these plants a 
still more malignant distemper presents itself, threatening 
entire destruction to the species. ‘This disease somewhat re- 
sembles the canker in apple trees: first a branch gives way ; 
then a black liquid issues from the point of union with the 
trunk, the regular ascension of the sap seems to be im- 
peded, and the alburnum is disposed in rather large quan- 
tities on each side of the affected part, which gives the tree a 
very unsightly and gibbous appearance. In many plantations 
of this neighbourhood, few trees which belong to what I have 
termed the third era have escaped. Here the most partial 
observer cannot fail being forcibly struck with the fact, that 
the health of our larch plantations, of the different periods or 
eras which I have marked out, has taken a decidedly progres- 
sive turn for the worse: hence the prevalent idea that larch, 
in this country, has degenerated by continued seminal pro- 
creations. 

In the case of canker in fruit trees which are cultivated 
for fruit only without regard to timber, the attempt to cure 
or arrest the disease is rational; but any attempt to cure 
canker in larch, by external application, would, in fact, be an 
approximation to the labours of an old public acquaintance, 
Mrs. Partington. ‘The only thing that can be done is to 
prevent; which, in almost all cases, is much easier than to 
cure: and I hold the opinion, at present, that prevention is far 


554 Hints on the Disease 


from hopeless. This stage of the subject, however, I reserve for 
some future communication ; and, in the mean time, confine 
my remarks to what has been termed pumping. 

The cause of pumping, like that of canker, I believe to 
be mismanagement in cultivation; and though here, also, a 
cure is hopeless where the disease has established itself in any 
individual tree, prevention is in the power of the assiduous 
planter. I have already stated, that, amongst the original 
larches (that is, such trees as were planted previously to the 
commencement of the second era), disease is unknown. May 
not this be accounted for from the nature of the treatment 
which plants supposed to be of delicate constitution might re- 
ceive? From this circumstance, there is just reason to suppose 
that great attention was observed; that the plants were trans- 
planted, and, perhaps, retransplanted ; and not finally planted 
out until they had attained a considerable altitude, and were 
in some measure in possession of the perfecting capabilities. 
By means of transplanting and retransplanting, previously to 
the final removal, an effectual check would be given to that 
vigorous growth so natural to young trees; a less extensive 
layer of young wood would be deposited, such as our short 
and often cold summer is capable of converting into hard 
durable timber. What tends to give these observations a 
colouring of truth is the fact (if my information is correct), 
that pumping has begun amongst the larch that were planted 
in the second era, about Dunkeld; whilst the original trees 
are still perfectly sound. It then appears that, in this era, 
the planters made the first false step aside from that path of 
cautious and guarded treatment which was observed by their 
more fortunate predecessors of the former period. They 
having ascertained that the tree was more hardy than was at 
first supposed, it was planted out in considerable numbers 
from the nursery lines, one year transplanted ; a few, perhaps, 
of them from the two-years’ seedling-bed. At this tender age, 
no check was experienced by the plants at removal; they 
struck down their roots at once, and rushed away in growth 
with surprising rapidity. ‘The proprietor, delighted at the 
progress which they made, calculated upon a rich harvest for 
posterity, little dreaming that decay had commenced the work 
of devastation by the very cause which excited his fond an- 
ticipations, a too rapid growth. 

Ihave consulted practical men as to disease in larch, 
all of whom were inclined to blame the soil.* “ Oh!” said 


* “ The common larch is very soon lost when planted above a sub- 
stratum of red sandstone. In the vale of the Annan, wherever the sloping 
banks have a substratum of this rock, or one composed of a sort of red 


prevalent in Larch Plantations. 555 


one, “it is no wonder to see these trees pumped: it is 
rather surprising that they grow at all on that cold wet 
bottom.” ‘*'Too dry a situation,” says another; while a 
third makes a fault of the soil being too rich. I suppose, 
these general causes are assigned because they either will not, 
or cannot, be at the trouble of enquiry. Be that as it 
may, with such instructors, it need not be wondered at, if, 
when first I betook myself to forestry, I was a firm be- 
liever in the soil doctrine; but one or two years’ practice 
convinced me that the creed of the soil being the sole cause 
was untenable. It unfortunately happens for this doctrine, 
that, in every plantation of fifty to seventy years’ standing, 
the greater proportion of the trees are not pumped: and I 
myself have cut down larches where one was pumped, and, 
at not four feet distant, another was cut down quite sound. 
Now, I would ask, what difference could exist here in the 
soil, where the roots of the one must have been interwoven 
with those of the other? Jam far from doubting that soil 
not congenial to the habits of the larch may constitute one of 
the destructive causes, when circumstances may have connected 
it with the others; but that it is the sole, or even the chief, 
cause, does not appear: for, either on a bad soil they must be 
all pumped, or, on good soil, they must be all sound, which 
is not the case. 

Is there no ground, then, for supposing that an extensive 
annual deposit of alburnum has some hand in the matter ? 
If we examine a larch tree that is pumped, when cut 
down, we find that it is the growth of the first ten or fif- 
teen years that has given way: and, generally, the decay 
extends to that side of the tree upon which the rings are 
broadest; while the outer rings, that have been formed of less 
extensive deposits, are quite sound. This circumstance comes 
with considerable force against the opinion that the sole cause 
is the soil; for, if this were the fact, how is it that the attack 
is not all over the tree at once? But, no: it is generally con- 
fined to the growth of the first ten or fifteen years, and to 
nearly about as many feet up from the root; leaving the outer 


sandstone, shingle, or gravel, the outward decay of the tree is visible at 
from fifteen to twenty-five years of age. The internal decay commences 
sooner, according to the depth of the upper soil, in the centre of the trunk, 
at the root, in the wood being of a darker colour, extending by degrees in 
circumference and up the stem, until the lower part of it becomes entirely 
deprived of vegetation, and assumes a tough and corky appearance. This 
extends to the whole plant, which gradually decays and dies. On the same 
soil the oak grows and thrives well.” (Sir William Jardine, in his notes 
to White’s Natural History of Selborne.)-— J. D. 


556 Disease in Larch Plantations. 


tings sound, until age brings about that natural decay to 
which every vegetable body is liable. From this, may we 
not conclude that it is imprudent to plant out larches before 
they shall have attained a considerable age and size? Or is 
there any thing irrational in the idea of checking the vege- 
tative energies of larch in its youth? and, as it is an exotic, 
compel it, as it were, to accommodate itself to the climate; 
that, by depositing a moderate annual layer for the first ten 
years, such as our season can ripen, a firm and_ healthy 
nucleus for future depositions may be secured, when the ca- 
pabilities afforded by nature for perfecting the system would 
be developed, and the process of formation completed. 

I only farther observe, at present, that another means of 
promoting rapid growth is density of planting; or, I should 
rather say, that of allowing plantations to grow up in an 
over-crowded state: of the evil of which every planter pro- 
fesses to be aware, and yet which every planter is in the habit 
of too long neglecting. Some hold the opinion that woods 
should be allowed to thin themselves, as is the case with the 
Norwegian forests. With trees indigenous to the country, 
this may be all very well; but it is questionable whether this 
be the proper mode of treating exotics. Besides, the greatest 
possible number, on the smallest possible space, is certainly 
not the surest way to secure the greatest possible return, as 
the actual state of many plantations show: and hence the 
propriety of judicious thinning in every instance, whether 
the trees be indigenous or exotic. Judicious management, 
however, circumstanced as we at present are, need not be 
expected. Individuals may recommend any system of ma- 
nagement they please; but, such is the aversion which gen- 
tlemen have in general to apply the axe to the most worthless 
trees, that, unless a system having the sanction of some regu- 
larly constituted body is given them, they will never have 
confidence to act. Here, then, is the necessity for a national 
sylvan society. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Brechin Nursery, June, 1833. James Munro. 


Mr. E. Murruy has offered, in Vol. VII. p. 295—298., 
some’ remarks which may be read with advantage, in con- 
nection with Mr. Munro’s valuable communication ; as may 
a paper in the Quart. Journ. of Agr. for September last, on 
the subject, by our correspondent G. I. T., the author of the 
Dom. Gard. Man. We recommend both to Mr. Munro, and 
hope that, after reading them, he will continue his communi- 
cations to us on this important subject. — Cond. 


On training the Oak for curved Timber. 557 


Art. X. On training the Oak Tree, so as to produce curved 
Timber, for Use in the Construction of Ships. By Mr. JAMES 
Munro. 


Sir, 

TuE superiority, in point of durability, of such oak as is 
to be found in many parts of Scotland over that which is 
grown on richer soils and in warmer climates, is generally 
admitted; and this superiority can only be accounted for 
by attributing it to the slow (so slow as to be almost im- 
perceptible) accumulation of vegetable fibre; while, on the 
contrary, the inferiority of the oak of milder climates is a 
consequence of a condition of growth the reverse of this. * 
Indeed, it seems to be an unalterable law in the appointed 
economy of vegetable bodies, from the mushroom, the child of 
a night, to the tree that has braved the storms of a thousand 
winters, that in an inverse ratio to the rapidity of the form- 
ation shall be the durability of the substance formed ; and so 
will it be with any particular species, according as the form- 
ation of its substance is, by a variation of treatment, hastened 
or retarded. 

Sir Henry Steuart, in his able refutation of the “ mucking 
system,” says that “the Scottish mountain oak seldom rises 
to a fifth part of the English tree.” Such an assertion, from 
such an authority, is certainly ill calculated to advance the 
interests of that species of tree from which we derive our 
national bulwarks; particularly as there is not a very great 
difference, in the degree of temperature, between the low 
country and some of the highland glens. ‘Those who are 
aware of this, and who, at the same time, have read Sir 
H. Steuart’s statement, can scarcely be blamed if they should 
form a rather contemptuous opinion of the oak, regarding 
its cultivation as a forest tree, or entirely overlook its 
merits for any thing else than a mere coppice bush. Un- 
fortunately, there remains no living specimen of what Scot- 
land was capable of producing. Ever a prey to external 
as well as internal foes, her primeval forests were, in the 
course of her long and destructive wars, either given to the 
flames by the enemy, or they fell by the wasting hand of 
time. Yet, in absence of these, there are records that prove 


* Might not the cause of the dry rot be traced to this source? Since 
the attacks of the rot are partial, it might be worth while to learn whether 
the planks infected with the rot were taken from the heart of the log; for, 
as such planks would, for the most part, consist of the earlier-formed 
layers of woody matter, this would, in consequence of having been de- 
posited in large quantities, be more porous in the grain, and therefore less 
durable, than the layers more recently formed. 


558 On training the Oak for curved Timber. 


sufficiently that Scotland, in ancient times, reared oaks of no 
inconsiderable stature; and the huge logs of black oak 
which are to be found buried in the mosses [peat bogs] afford 
a clear demonstration that oak fit for naval purposes may be 
reared in Scotland. ‘The necessity and vast importance of 
having a large and regular supply of curved wood for naval 
architecture must strike every one who possesses a British 
heart. I dare not say it is a lack of patriotism on the part 
of the Scottish landlord, nor can I say how it is, yet true it 
is, that there is not an estate in the country whereon oak 
trees, to any considerable extent, have been planted, or kept 
in training, expressly for the use of the navy. I am aware 
that it is not necessary that all the trees required in building 
a ship should be of the curved kind; but well-formed curves, 
or knees as they are called, are often difficult to be found in 
sufficient number. To relieve us from this difficulty, a 
system of training ought to be commenced by which the 
requisite quantity of knees required for a whole future navy 
might, to a certainty, be all put into form in the short space 
of two years, or three at the most. 

If the honour of developing such a system have been 
reserved for me, I shall certainly think myself singularly for- 
tunate: but, alas! the thing is surely too simple in its nature, 
and too obviously efficient, to have escaped the notice of 
those who, from time to time, have had the charge of the 
naval forests. Nevertheless, I shall here proceed with the 
developement; and should the same mode be already in 
practice, you have only to suppress this paper : if this be not 
the case, I consider the method well worth the attention of 
the forest commissioners. 

In or about the same year that I made my experiment in 
preparing large trees, which you have been pleased to notice 
[in p. 217.] with approbation, I selected a few oaks, in a 
thin well-aired plantation, from sixteen to twenty years old : 
I had their heads taken off, leaving nothing but a bare pole 
seven feet in height. ‘This was done in the course of the 
winter months, that the stools might have the full advantage 
of the first efforts of the returning spring. I watched with 
great attention as the spring advanced; and toward the latter 
end of May the stools sent out, from top to bottom, from the 
bark thousands of young shoots. I made choice of four of 
the strongest shoots, situated at right angles; the remainder 
of the numerous brotherhood was rubbed off. From the 
strength of the stools these four remaining shoots made con- 
siderable progress, in the course of which I had them trained 
out horizontally, as represented in the outline. (fg. 128.) 


Pines and Flowering Plants at Dropmore. 559 


128 


SSS SS SS SS SS SSS SSS 2S ae 
a, The trunk, or stool. 6, A branch so cut in as to produce an acute knee at its extremity. 
c, A branch with the natural curve. : 
d, The upright posts to which the branches were, with nails and shreds, pinned down to the form. 


This experiment, owing to my having to take my departure 
to a distant part of the country, was left entirely to nature, 
so that I am unprepared to say what the result may be. 
This, however, I consider of but little consequence, as the 
practical result is as certain as the celebrated method of 
making an egg stand upon the small end. Had these 
trees continued under my care, it was my intention to train 
the shoots to the extent of ten or twelve feet out from the 
trunk, when I would have given a natural or an acute curve 
as fancy might direct. Upon a tree trained upon this prin- 
ciple six to eight knees could be grown; and, what is of no 
small importance, they can be put into the form required 
with very little trouble or expense. 
I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

James Muwro. 

Brechin Nursery, August 5. 1833. 


Art. XI. A Notice of the Species of Pines added to the Pinetum 
at Dropmore, and of some showy Species of flowering Plants 
which decorate the Garden there. By Mr. Puitip Frost, Head 
Gardener at Dropmore. 


Sir, 
I srnp you, according to the wish expressed by you 
when here, a list of the new species of pines which have been 


added to our pinetum subsequently to the publication of an 
account of it in your Vol. III. p. 263. to 268.: — 


560 Pines and Flowering Plants at Dropmore. 


Pinus Lambertiana. Pinus nigricans. Cédrus Deodara. 
taxifolia. Pichta Fischer. Also an unknown spe- 
L’laveana, ponderosa. cies, sent here for 
monticola. Sabiniana. Deodara, 
grandis. Sabiniana var. Araucaria __[Altingia] 
hispanica. Gerardidna. Cunninghami. 
amabilis. nobilis. Démmara australis. 


I shall also give you a brief notice of some of the new and 
beautiful plants which we bed out, group, or otherwise apply 
for the decoration of the out-door garden during summer. 

Verbena venosa is one of the greatest treasures of the gar- 
den when planted out in a bed ; and we have a bed of plants 
of it arranged by the side of a bed of Verbena chameedrifolia, 
and the abundant blossoms of the two, those of each so beauti- 
ful and so unlike those of its neighbour, supply superb masses 
of colour, mutually relieved and enhanced in splendour by 
the striking contrast of the colours of the two. Verbena 
venosa may be readily multiplied by cuttings inserted under 
a hand glass, or in a frame with a little heat. It has a pecu- 
liar property of throwing up suckers at a distance from the 
root, which soon make a good thick bed. Any light soil 
sults it. 

Verbena Sabini? is quite a new plant here. I am preparing 
for a bed next season. It is a procumbent and delicate little 
plant, well adapted for beds, or to hang over the sides of 
flower baskets. 

Nierembérgia pheenicea is also a fine plant for grouping 
into beds, but should not be planted thick, or it becomes 
too much crowded. 

Nicotiana longiflora is a beautiful plant to stand singly in 
borders. It grows three feet high, and produces a mass of 
large white flowers, which close for a few hours in the middle 
of the day. Its seeds should be sown in the autumn; and, if 
the plants arising from them be kept in a cold frame or green- 
house, they will flower earlier and finer than if not sown 
until the spring. 

Calandrinia grandiflora is also an eligible plant for borders. 
It attains two feet in height, and is very showy. 

Salpigléssis, the species of, do well here, treated after the 
same manner. 

Argemene grandiflora is also a great acquisition to the 
borders. 

A great many plants are naturalised throughout the woods 
here; and it will be my study to scatter all the seeds I can 
procure, in every wild part, which, if they grow, will eventu- 
ally supply great pleasure and amusement to the trayeller. 


Pines and Flowering Plants at Dropmore. 561 


This might be done in various parts of the kingdom, and 
would add greatly to the beauty of every place. 

Clumps of Plants of the Tuberose Ihave this year planted 
clumps of bulbs of the tuberose (Polidnthes tuberdsa Z.), 
which are now remarkably fine, and are delightfully fragrant. 
In planting them, I prepared a hole four feet deep, and filled 
it up three feet with well decomposed manure, and one foot 
of turfy loam, with a small portion of sand. They are ad- 


mired by every observer, as being the finest they have ever 
seen. 


If my observations prove of any service to you, I shall feel 
much pleasure in having forwarded them. 
I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Puitip Frost. 
Dropmore, September 2. 1833. 


Botanists are not agreed upon either the generic or specific relations 
of the beautiful plant called, above, Nierembérgia phcenicea; and, con- 
sequently, are not agreed upon either its generic or specific name. Dr. 
Hooker, in the number of Curtis’s Botanical Magazine for Dec. 1831 
(see Gard. Mag., vol. viii. p.21.), has, in t.3113., where he has given a 
figure and description of the plant, denominated it Salpigldéssis integri- 
folia. No plant can, in habit, be well more unlike any species of Sal- 
piglossis under present cultivation in our gardens; and if the characters 
of habit are of that value which Dr. Lindley’s separation of the genus 
Lowea from the genus Rosa, by means of them alone, assigns to them, 
Salpigléssis integrifolia Hooker can hardly be deemed a Salpiglossis at all. 
In Sweet’s British Flower-Garden for December, 1832, t. 172., there is pub- 
lished a figure of that elegant little green-house plant, Nierembérgia gra- 
cilis, with a description of it by David Don, Esq., who appends to the 
description a notice of the close relationship subsisting between the genera 
Salpigldssis, Nierembérgia, and Petunia, more particularly between the 
latter two, and remarks to the effect that the plant which Dr. Hooker has 
denominated Salpigléssis integrifolia is rather a species of Petwnia; and he 
there proposes to call it Petunia phenicea. As the plant, in habit of 
growth, foliage, inflorescence, calyx, seed-vessel, and punctulate seeds, 
closely resembles the Petunia nyctaginiflora, although it has not, like that, 
a long slender tube to its corolla, it would seem natural to deem it a species 
of Petinia ; and, were this determined on, the epithet phcenicea, express- 
ive of the rich colour of the plant’s blossoms, would seem to be a not 
unsuitable one. In some gardens the plant is designated by the name of 
Petunia integrifolia; but, if the plant be received as a Petunia, the epithet 
integrifolia does not distinguish it from the P. nyctaginiflora, which has 
also entire leaves ; although, while the plant was considered a species of 
Salpigléssis, the term integrifolia did sufficiently express the plant’s dis- 
tinctness from the species of Salpigléssis previously in cultivation, whose 
leaves have margins more or less divided. However, in Sweet’s British 
Flower-Garden for June, 1833, t. 193., Mr. D. Don, who has there supplied 
a figure and description of this plant, has proposed to include the genus 
Petunia in the genus Nierembérgia, and has accordingly published the 
present plant under the name of Nierembérgza pheenicea; a name indi- 


Vou. [IX.— No. 46. 00 


562 Pines and Flowering Plants at Dropmore. 


cative of affinities whose existence botanists seem disposed to dispute ; 
for Dr. Hooker has already, so early as in the Botanical Magazine for 
August, 1833, t. 3256., expressed his dissent from them. 

Whatever name be determined on for this plant, it is, past a question, 
one of the loveliest showiest ornaments of the hardy garden which are 
yet in cultivation. Jn p.107. I have remarked, that, on Sept. 3. 1832, I 
learned, in the Horticultural Society’s Garden, “ that a blossom or blos- 
soms of it had there been just previously impregnated [at least the impreg- 
nation had been attempted] with the pollen of Petunia nyctaginiflora.” On 
August 13. 1833, I had the pleasure of seeing, in the Society’s Garden, a 
bed of plants of the Petunia (or Nierembérgia) phcenfcea, and was told, 
on enquiry, that part of these plants were from the seeds of the impreg- 
nated blossoms, and that no obvious variation had resulted. Nothing 
could in splendour exceed this bed: all the branches of all the plants were 
horizontally decumbent, and, from the nearness of the plants, crossed and 
interlaced each other so as to perfectly cover the ground from sight; while 
every branch was a wreath of blossoms; and the aggregate of all the 
wreaths was, as it were, a bed or bank, or, if you will, a carpet, of rich rosy 
purple; relieved, enriched, enlivened, by the garniture of the numerous full 
green healthy leaves, scarcely more numerous than the blossoms themselves. 
It was late in the afternoon when I saw this bed; when, superbly beautiful 
as it then was, I was told that it was still more so in the middle of a mildly 
sunny day. The bed, I should think, was 12 ft. or 15 ft. in length, by 3 ft. or 
4 ft. in breadth: the soil was, I think, a sandy loam; at all events, a soil not 
over moist. At the base of the front wall, which has a southern aspect, of 
the cottage in which I reside, I planted, in the end of April, or early in May, 
out of a pot, a rather small plant of this Petunia (Nierembérgia) phoenicea, 
which I obtained of Mr. Dennis, Chelsea, who had struck it from a cutting 
in the preceding winter, or early part of spring, and had, up to that time, 
kept it in agreen-house. From the time of my planting it until now (Sep- 
tember 10.), it has grown and flowered incessantly, and will, doubtless, con- 
tinue doing so till the frost prevent it: it is trained over the face of the 
house-wall, and has been very much admired by passers by, especially for 
the last two months, as its extent, and the number of its flowers, through 
the course of this time, have rendered it very conspicuous and striking: 
the plant now measures more than 4 ft. in height, by about 33 ft. in 
breadth. Mr. Maund, in his Botanic Garden, mentions a plant which is 
trained to a wall in his garden, and has attained a still greater extent ; 
and, in a letter dated Bromsgrove, Sept. 9., remarks : — “ It is now 10 ft. 
wide, and 73 ft. high, regularly covering the whole space, and bearing 
upwards of twelve hundred expanded blossoms: it is quite a purple 
blaze.” It seeds but sparingly, as out of every thirty flowers certainly 
not more than one is followed by a seed-vessel and seeds. Petunia 
nyctaginiflora is in the same condition. It would, perhaps, be well to 
sow the seeds as soon as ripe, to force them by artificial heat to grow im- 
mediately (without this, they might, perhaps, lie dormant in the soil until 
next spring), and to pot off the plants which may arise from them, and keep 
them in a green-house through the winter, for planting out early next spring, 
for the decoration of the garden during the summer and the autumn. It 
seems generally admitted that plants of it from seeds produce larger flowers 
than, and are preferable to, plants raised from cuttings: and, as the flowers 
on my trained plant are not so fine as those on the prostrate plants at 
Chiswick, the prostrate posture would seem the more congenial of the 
two. Perhaps a row of plants grown in an open part of a garden between 
a double row of neat wire hurdles would have a fine effect: their branches 
would be kept up by, and might be woven withinside, the bars of the 
hurdles ; and thus the flowers of the plants would be displayed on both 
sides of, and all over, the floral hedge or bank thus formed. 


Mode of preserving Pelargoniums. 563 


Nicotidna longifléra Cav. is commended by Mr. Frost, above, for its 
beauty. Nicotiana pérsica Lindl. deserves like commendation: a large 
group of plants of the latter was very abundant in large white and, seen 
collectively, showy flowers, in the afternoon of August 13. 1833, in the 
Horticultural Society’s Garden: I say afternoon, because the flowers of the 
tobaccos are usually less beautiful under a midday sun than in the evening 
and the morning, when, moreover, they effuse a pleasant odour. Of both 
Nicotiana longiflora Cav. and N. pérsica Lindl. a notice was given in the 
last Number, p. 487. 

Calandrinia grandiflora. A fine bed of plants of this species was beautiful 
in the Horticultural Society’s Garden in the summer and autumn of 1832. 
The flowers of the species of this genus most display their beauty in the 
heat and bright light of the midday sun. Calandrinia speciosa Lindl., a 
description of whose charms, and directions for cultivating it, are in the last 
Number, p. 485., quoted from Dr. Lindley, is there shown to be an eligible 
species, although a much smaller one, for the same purposes of floral deco- 
ration. —J. D. 


Art. XII. A Mode of preserving the greatest Number of Pelar- 
gontums and other Kinds of Green-house Plants through the 
Winter, in the least possible Space. By Mr. Peter Mackenziz, 
Gardener to Robert Lowis, Esq., of Wester Plean. 

Sir, 

GarDENERS are, in the spring, often at great trouble in col- 
lecting a number of cuttings of green-house plants, especially 
of pelargoniums; and, after these have struck, and the plants 
thus formed have flowered through the summer, they must, 
when autumn has drawn near its close, be put into some 
place of safety for the winter. At those places where there 
is not proper accommodation for them, the gardeners, having 
a regard for the plants they have reared, are often much 
perplexed in bringing them through the winter. In con- 
sequence, when the time has arrived at which the plants 
must be transplanted from the borders into pots, and after 
the knife has been used freely upon them, they are often 
crowded together in ill-lighted rooms and other out-houses, 
where they can scarcely draw their breath, and where num- 
bers of: them die; and those which survive the winter are 
few and ill-favoured. To endeavour to remedy this evil is 
the object of this paper. The plan is a very simple one. 

About the time at which green-house plants are taken 
from the borders, go over them, and take off what cuttings 
they can spare (some may be cut to pieces, and made the 
most of); then take pots about eight or nine inches’ diameter, 
put twenty or thirty cuttings in each, and plunge the pots 
up to the rim in a hot-bed which has but a slight heat; cover 
the pots of cuttings with hand-glasses, or a small frame, and 
in a short time the cuttings will have emitted roots. They 


may remain there as long as the weather is mild. When 
00 2 


564 Coping for Garden Walls. 


the frost sets in, remove them to a room, or any other place 
where they may be protected from the cold. A small win- 
dow, with a shelf in the centre, will contain 200 plants. If 
the same window were employed for holding full-sized plants, 
two common-sized pelargoniums would fill it. In about the 
middle or latter end of March, plant each rooted cutting in a 
small pot, and put them into any sheltered situation until 
the season be fit for transplanting them in the open air. By 
this method a supply of young plants may from year to year 
be obtained, with scarcely any trouble. 
I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

Perer MAcKENZIE. 

Stirlingshire, April 22. 1833. 


Art. XIII. On Coping for Garden Walls. By Mr. ARCHIBALD 
GoRRIE. 
Sir, 


In the Encyclopedia of Gardening (§ 1557.) it is very 
justly observed, that “it is not settled among gardeners 
whether the coping” of garden walls “should project at all;” 
and many feasible arguments have been adduced why they 
should not. ‘The are said to look clumsy if far projected, to 
harbour vermin, to prevent genial showers from refreshing 
the foliage: and all this, and a great deal more, may be very 
true. On the other hand, however, it must be conceded, that 
garden walls are generally built for affording a higher temper- 
ature in order to raise the finer fruits, natives of warmer cli- 
mates. It is also well known that the earth radiates heat in 
the night-time, and under a clear and still atmosphere ; as any 
substance which intercepts the escape of such radiated heat 
into the blue expanse adds considerably to the elevation of 
the temperature on the Jower side of that substance com- 
pared with that indicated on its upper surface. Whether 
this proceeds from the “ frigorific rays,” being arrested in 
their downward course, according to some who insist that 
cold is a body, or from radiated heat arrested and returned 
to the earth’s surface by projected coping or other substance ; 
be the cause which or what it may, few, I believe, of my 
brethren, in this intellectual age, are so unscientific as to 
deny the result. If any such there be, I must beg to refer 
them to An Essay on Dew, by Dr. Wells (p. 252—254.), or 
to your remarks on the same subject in the Encyclopedia of 
Gardening, 3d edit. § 1206. ‘Taking it for granted, then, 
that, in clear and calm nights, projecting copings preserve a 


Coping for Garden Walls. 565 


greater degree of heat on the surface of the wall and border 
immediately under that coping, and that the difference of 
temperature in favour of a projected cope may vary from four 
to eleven degrees, according to circumstances, it will be 
readily conceded that in this variable and cold climate the 
advantages offered by a projecting cope should not be re- 
jected. This granted, the question now occurs, how are its 
objectionable parts to be done away with? ‘The expense of 
an eighteen-inch projecting cope is of itself no joke, and adds 
considerably to the estimate for building a new garden wall 
where flag-stones are at a distance; and, after that expense 
has been incurred, there is an appearance of gloom and 
heaviness, ill adapted to the light and natural appearance 
which should always characterise the garden. 

I have long observed the advantage to peach trees of a 
coping formed by the ample leaves of the fig, compared with 
others not under such protection. ‘This, some years since, in- 
duced me to turn my attention in quest of some ornamental 
plant which might be trained on a light trellis from the 
ground upward to the top of the wall, at right angles from 
the wall, and occupying the same breadth across the border 
as the trellised projection at top; the supporting trellises to 
stand at the extremities of the shoots of peach and other 
tender fruit trees, or at equal distances from their stems. 
The plant I have fixed on, and planted for that purpose, is 
the double-flowered Ayrshire rose, of which (thanks to 
W. Martin, amateur florist, Dundee) we now possess so 
many beautiful and elegant varieties. Its rapid growth 
points it out as giving effect in the shortest time; its decidu- 
ous nature leaves both projecting and side trellises open in 
winter, to admit of the larvae (grubs) and ova (eggs) of insects 
beg swept off by the broom, or subjected to the chilling 
blasts of December; and exposes the young wood to the full 
play of the wind, at a season when cold acts as a stimulus, and 
promotes the future rapid energy of vegetation in spring. 

The leaves of this rose tree expand early in spring, when 
their aid is wanted in exposed situations; and, where plants 
of it are trained on side trellises, they contribute to produce 
a calm serenity along the face of the wall, while those on the 
projecting trellis become sufficiently close for repelling ter- 
restrial radiated heat, and throwing it back on the wall and 
border: thus, in both instances, contributing towards the 
protection of the tender blossom, and the setting and matur- 
ing of the fruit. The force of dashing rains is modified by 
the projecting cope, while they are allowed to fall on the 


foliage in gentle and refreshing showers, as filtered through 
oo 3 


566 Culture of the Pine-apple. 


the projecting live vegetable cope; a cope which can easily 
be rendered close or open, according to the wish or fancy of 
the gardener; and which, in point of taste, utility, cheapness, 
and elegance, can never be matched by the clumsy projections 
of wood or stone. Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 

ARCHIBALD GoRRIE. 
Annat Gardens, July 17. 1833. 


Tue beautiful manner in which the branches of a plant of 
the Virginian creeper (Ampelopsis ederacea Mz.), now in 
sight, are festooning the arms of a pear tree, from which the 
extremities of some of the creeper’s branches depend in ver- 
dant garlands to the ground, and thus, in outline, form a 
tasteful bower, suggest the question, might not this very 
rapidly and most extensively growing shrub, abundant in 
ample deep green shading leaves in summer, “ in scarlet 
honours bright in autumn,” and leafless in winter; and far- 
ther, fastening, by its clasping tendrils, its own branches to 
the trellis over which they may be led, be used, in the ab- 
sence of the double-flowered Ayrshire rose, or other plants 
as eligible, to serve the same umbrageous office? —J. D. 
August 27. 1833. 


Art. XIV. On the Advantage of growing Pine-apple Plants in 

Pots made with Holes in their Sides. By Joun HAwkIns, Esq. 

Sir, 

Axout forty years ago I was a grower of pine-apple plants, 
and observing that those plants throve the best whose roots 
grew out at the bottoms of the pots into the tan, I was led to 
have a few pots made with eight holes in the sides of each, 
to let the roots of the plants run out at into the tan. These 
holes were made at equal distances, about the circumference 
of my finger, round the pot, and from three to four inches 
from the top; but by some cause or other my growing 
of pines was discontinued at that time, and until February 
last, when I again became a grower of pines for my own 
table, and again used the pots which had lain by so many 
years. ‘The advantage of these pots over any other became 
then very apparent, both by the strength of the plants, and 
the quickness of their growth. The leaves of some of them 
were nearly white. I measured the length of a root of the 
plants when they were moved the other day, and found it 
above a foot long, although broken off. It appeared to have 
tun many feet into the tan, if it did not reach the bed of 
leaves under the tan, which I suspect it did. 


Culture of the Cucumber and Melon. 567 


It appears to me, from this little experiment, that, where 
leaves are used instead of tan, the pits will not require to be 
turned more than once a year ; for where the roots are grown 
far into the leaves, the plants will thrive, although there be 
but little heat in the bed, because they will have all the 
advantage of it; which is not the case when the roots are 
confined within the pots. ‘That a pine plant will grow much 
faster and stronger, and will not require to be shifted into 
other pots so often as is generally done; that such large pots, 
namely, 13 in. wide in the clear withinside at the top, and 
13 in. deep in the inside, will not be wanted; that more 
plants may be grown in a row; and that fruit equally large 
and good-flavoured may be grown in much smaller pots than 
those which are now generally used ;— these are no small 
advantages. All my pots, both little and great, are now 
made in this manner; and next summer I hope to reap the 
advantage of it. 

I am not aware that this hint has been used by any pine- 
growers, although obvious, and so easy to be put in practice; 
therefore I am induced to take the liberty to submit it to you, 
that, if it be worth knowing, it may be made public through 
your Magazine, for the advantage of your many pine-growing 
friends. E I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

Joun Hawkins. 
Cosford, Godalming, Surrey, Aug. 27. 1833. 


Art. XV. The Results of an Instance of growing the Cucumber 
and the Melon in [Heath Mould or*]| Bog Earth. By Mr. 
JAMES FIGGANS. 

Sir, 

I pur up my frames in February with dung in the usual 
way; and it occurred to me to try a two-light frame with bog 
earth [heath mould], which I had never seen done, anti- 
cipating, however, but little the result. When the bed was 
made up, I put nine inches of bog earth, as taken from the 
field, into it, and when the heat had arisen, I drew the earth 
into two heaps, one under each light, to receive the plants, 
and then introduced a little more earth into the frame. I 
put plants of cucumber under one light, and of melon under 


* In Vol. VII. p. 285. I have endeavoured to show that the term bog earth 
would naturally imply that dense, sodden, coagulate, moorish soil which 
bogs, morasses, and swamps usually supply; and that the dry, mixedly 
sandy, easily separable mould met with on heaths, and in which the species 
of heath (rica) delight to grow, would be far more appropriately deno- 
minated if termed heath mould. — J. D. 

00 4 


568 Short Communications. 


the other. The plants, both of cucumber and melon, ran 
very fast, and were very strong, and both produced a very 
fine crop; but I did not pay any particular attention to the 
number of fruit. As I possessed one seed of cucumber, 
which I had received as a very fine kind, and which I was, in 
consequence, anxious to propagate, I introduced it into the 
side of the heap upon which were the other cucumber plants, 
to which I applied my knife freely when the plant from the 
one seed began to run. At the same time I planted in the 
heap under the other light, one seed of the King William 
melon ; and when the plants from these two seeds began to 
meet, I used the knife to the plant of the melon until I had left 
but one vine, upon which I had one melon of 9 lbs. weight. 
Of the produce of the cucumber seed I annex you a list: — 


Number. Length. Circumference. Number. Length. Circumference, 
1. 24 in. 1] in. IT 17 in. 9in. 
2: 21 103 2? 17 8 
3. 19 103 Ney 16 82 
4, 18 10 14, 15 81 
5. 18 102 15. 14 8 
6. 18 10 16. 13 8 
i. 182 103 ie 14 84 
8, 193 94 18. 13 et 
9. 18 9 19. 10 q 

10. 18 9 20. 8 q 


The frame was only once lined with fresh dung, and that 
previously to these two seeds being put in. I found that the 
bog earth required more water by about one third. I pro- 
pose continuing the use of the bog earth this season, and, if 
agreeable to you, will communicate the result. I ought to 
mention that the fruit was of a good quality. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
James Fiaeans. 
Craigie House, Ayr, May 17. 1833. 


WE shall be happy to learn the result from our corre-~ 
spondent, and to hear from him on other subjects. — Cond. 


Art. XVI. Short Communications. 


GARDENS for the Use of Pensioners, §c.— In a very inter- 
esting article on the philosophical history of hypochondriasis 
and hysteria, in the 23d number of the Foreign Quarterly 
Review for July, 1833, is the following passage (p. 117.) : — 

‘“‘ It is some disappointment to a humane person to find, 
that, of all men who are discontented with their lot, none 


Short Communications. 869 


exceed in the quantity of their grumbling, and in the habit 
of looking on the wrong side of things, and in a proclivity 
[propensity] to hypochondriacal imaginations, the old pen- 
sioners of the army and the navy at Chelsea and Green- 
wich. Placed above the fear of want, but deprived of all 
motive to exertion; neither moved by hope nor by fear, for 
they have neither promotion to look to, nor disgrace to appre- 
hend; they are miserable, precisely because they have nothing 
to do. We have often thought that some gentle duties, ana- 
logous to the former habits of the lives of these deserving 
old men, would be a great blessing to them.” 

Now, we would suggest that to every hospital there should 
be attached a garden, sufficiently extensive to occupy in its 
culture all the inmates. Though this sort of occupation 
might not be ‘ analogous to the former habits” of these 
inmates, yet we are persuaded that it is so natural, that they 
would soon not only become accustomed to it, but fond of it. 
Why should not the whole of the vacant ground at Chelsea 
Hospital be turned into a garden; and put under the care of 
a good gardener, who would direct the labours of such of the 
pensioners as were able to work in it? Much might be said 
on this subject, if we had not expatiated so largely on it in 
former volumes. We trust, however, we shall be excused 
for keeping it continually before our readers. — Cond. 

A Mode of preventing the Ravages of Birds on newly sown 
Corn. — The mode adopted in some parts of Fife, for pro- 
tecting new-sown fields from rooks, wood-pigeons, and other 
destructive vermin, is the following. Ina large field which 
has been newly sown, place a certain number of stamps 
(traps), say a dozen, used for killing rats, &c.; cover them 
slightly with earth, and avoid, by all means, any thing like a 
methodical arrangement of the stamps. A few rooks taken 
by such means serve as so many beacons, and effectually 
protect the field, for the croaking noise they make is almost 
incredible. By this simple operation, many pounds sterlin 
will, in the long run be saved to the farmer. (See the Edin- 
burgh Advertiser of the 3rd May last.) The writer can state 
the success of the above process from actual observation, 
and he is convinced that, were the method suggested gene- 
rally known and followed throughout the country, the rooks 
and other vermin would, in a short time, dread the ap- 
pearance of a new-sown field as much as they now do the 
sight of a gun. ‘The proper use of the rook* is to destroy 


* © Ts thine alone the seed that strews the plain ? 
The birds of heaven shall vindicate their grain.” 
Porr’s Essay on Man, ep. iti. —J. D. 


570 Short Communications. 


the grubs which are always very abundant in meadow 
ground. 

It is stated in one of the Perthshire newspapers of this 
month, that not less than 27,000 crows were destroyed this 
season at Dupplin by the demolition of between 11,000 and 
12,000 nests; and all this was performed by contract for the 
sum of twenty-five pounds sterling. — Anon. June 25.1833. 

In opposition to the spirit of persecution displayed in the 
above remarks, against the rook, and other birds, —“ vermin,” 
as the writer calls them, — we present a short extract from a 
notice, of some length, on the usefulness of the rook, which 
has been published in the Magazine of Natural History, 
vol. vi. p. 142, 143.— J. D. 

‘* In the neighbourhood of my native place, in the county 
of York, is a rookery belonging to Wm. Vavasour, Esq., 
of Weston, in Wharfdale, in which it is estimated that 
there are 10,000 rooks, that 1lb. of food a week is a 
very moderate allowance for each bird, and that nine 
tenths of their food consist of worms, insects and their 
larvee ; for, although they do considerable damage to the fields 
for a few weeks in seedtime and a few weeks in harvest, 
particularly in backward seasons, yet a very large proportion 
of their food, even at these seasons, consists of insects and 
worms, which (if we except a few acorns and walnuts in 
autumn) compose at all other times the whole of their sub- 
sistence. Here, then, if my data be correct, there is the 
enormous quantity of 468,000 lbs. or 209 tons of worms, 
insects, and their larvae, destroyed by the rooks of a 
single rookery : to every one who knows how very destruc- 
tive to vegetation are the larvee of the tribes of insects, as 
well as worms, fed upon by rooks, some slight idea may be 
formed of the devastation which rooks are the means of pre- 
venting.” (Z. G. of Clitheroe, Lancashire, in Mag. Nat. 
Hist., vol. vi. p. 142.) 

Proofs of the efforts of the rooks to obtain insects for food 
in early spring may be readily perceived in a stroll, at that 
time, over the hay meadows about London. — J. D. 

On the Ravages of the Tinea padélla L.[ Yponomeuta padélla 
Latr.]; and some Suggestions for preserving Plants from the 
Ravages of Insects generally.— Sir, No insect makes greater 
havoc of our whitethorn hedges and apple trees than the 
little grey moth, Tinea padélla Zzn. Wherever the cater- 
pillars of this insect seat themselves, they appear to be con- 
gregated in vast numbers: every spray is covered. The 
leaves vanish before them; so that, by midsummer, not only 
single trees, but whole orchards, and entire hedges from end ~ 


Short Communications. 571 


to end, are completely defoliated. Their depredations cease 
when their change into the chrysalis state takes place, leaving 
the trees covered with the webs (or, rather, silky threads) by 
which they transport themselves from place to place; and 
every leaf shrivelled, as if scorched by fire. Shortly after 
the exit of the caterpillars, the trees and hedges regain their 
verdure ; but, if any of the fruit itself escape their ravages, it 
is, in consequence of their attacks on the leaves, small and 
worthless. 

The family of moths are particularly partial in their choice 
of food, one species affecting one order of plants only. So 
much is this the case, that entomologists have thought fit to 
identify them by cognomens derived from the names of plants 
on which they are found: as, Sphinz tilize, the lime tree moth; 
S. convolvuli, the bindweed moth ; and S. ligastri, the privet 
moth, ‘The instinctive predilections of these little creatures 
have often suggested the idea that their favourite plants might 
be defended from their visits by the qualities of other plants 
to which they are averse. This, indeed, is an old idea: fifty 
years ago, farmers were advised to protect their young tur- 
nips by drawing over every part of the field a bush-harrow 
made of the branches of common elder. For the same pur- 
pose, I have myself, many years back, watered my April- 
sown cauliflower seedlings with an infusion of the leaves of 
artichokes, a liquor bitter enough, certainly; but neither 
elder on the field, nor the decoction of artichoke leaves on 
the garden, answered the purpose for which it was applied. 
In these attempts, we proceeded on the supposition that the 
palates of the insects were similar to our own; and that what 
was nauseous to us must also be so to them: here lay our error. 

Notwithstanding these failures, it is still highly probable 
that the qualities of those plants so pertinaciously rejected by 
the insects might be, if properly extracted, available, if not 
to destroy, at least to disgust, them; which would equally 
effect our purpose, namely, the preservation of useful or 
ornamental plants. 

I was more than ever struck with these ideas from an ob- 
servation made by yourself, when, on a late occasion, I had 
the pleasure of walking with you round your garden at Bays- 
water. You were lamenting the ravages of the T'inea padélla, 
and pointedly alluded to the untouched and lively verdure of 
the ivy, compared with apple trees close at hand, stretching 
forth their “* naked arms” to the sky. I believe I mentioned 
at the time, that, were it practicable to transfer the qualities 
of the ivy, in a fluid state, upon the foliage of the apple, the 
latter would be thereby protected from the attack of the moths 


572 Short Communications. 


(as more than one are engaged in the work), as well as, per- 
haps, that of all other insects. 

Ruminating on the subject, I am more and more impressed 
with the necessity that some exertions should be made, and 
experiments set on foot, to ascertain whether it be the essen- 
tial qualities or rigidity of the membranous structure of such 
plants as the ivy which renders them noxious or uninviting 
to predaceous insects or other animals, as snails, &c. 

In such investigation, the chemist might be invoked to 
render assistance. ‘To detect by analysis the chemical prin- 
ciples; to ascertain by solution, expression, decoction, or 
other means, the peculiar qualities of the invulnerable plants 
alluded to, would be a necessary preliminary; next, the faci- 
lity of application ; and, lastly, the effects of the application. 
Such experimentising may be deemed a prostration of science ; 
but, if the preservation of the beauty and usefulness of plants 
be not an object worth the chemist’s care, I know not (except 
human life and health) what is. I may, moreover, add, that, 
if there be any one thing more than another that deserves the 
gardener’s utmost thought and exertion, it is the most suc- 
cessful mode of preventing the depredations of insects on his 
crops. 

Whatever quality may be hit upon, whether vegetable or 
mineral (for some of the latter may be found most efficient), 
as a safecuard of plants, it ought to be administrable as an 
ablution or wash: as such, the garden-engine or syringe 
might be employed with ease, and with little loss of time. 
The best season to apply any such wash or sprinkling is cer- 
tainly the autumn, because it is then that the eggs of insects 
are laid on the bark of trees on which they breed. Another 
sprinkling or two in spring (one before, and the next just 
after, the buds have burst) will go far to annoy and disperse 
the larvee. 

These remarks I take the liberty to send you, because they 
may induce some of those, whether chemists or gardeners, 
who have opportunities, to pursue the subject ; as it may turn 
out that some of our most bland and even sugary vegetable 
substances may prove a complete defence against the attacks 
of various insects. Iam, Sir, yours, &c.— J. Main. Chel- 
sea, July 9. 1833. 

[Soot destroys or drives off from all Plants of the Cabbage 
Tribe, from Pinks, and from other Plants, those common and 
voracious Grubs of Gardens, the Larve of the Moths of the 
Family Noctuwade.] — After being annoyed, almost to despair, 
by the ravages of this grub, I resorted to the use of soot, and 
thus applied it: — I laid it dry, and near an inch thick over the 


Short Communications. 573 


ground, and had it dug in. The plants were then planted 
from 20 to 25 in a row and so effectual was the soot, that, 
instead of losing 8 or 10 plants in one row, as I before had 
done, I think I ‘did not lose more than that number in a bed 
of 200 or 300. Inthe grub’s attacks on plants of the cab- 
bage family, its habit is to eat some nearly and others quite 
asunder, a little below the heart: it often greatly annoys 
the farmers in their turnip fields. I have made use of the 
same remedy since, and have never found it to fail. Last 
summer I was troubled with the grub in a bed of pinks: I 
then made some soot water, and with it watered the bed well, 
and the bed was soon freed from the grubs. ‘The precise 
mode of the soot’s action on the grubs I cannot state; but 
I believe that the ammoniacal matter which it contains destroys 
some, and disperses the remainder. I shall gladly receive any 
information on this head. I have not found the soot injure 
the soil at all; and I name this because I had been told 
it would. — W. Denyer. Residing with Mr. J. D. Parks. 
Dartford Nursery, Jan. 18. 1833. 

On the Habits of the Triphena (Néctua) prénuba we ‘Shene 
registered some facts in p. 504. Mr. Denyer’s facts, besides 
their value in a gardening point of view, are an additional 
contribution to the history of the insect, as farther instancing 
its likings, and teaching us its dislike of soot. — J. D. 

In a piece of ground attached to my present place of abode, 
which I did not take possession of until April, 1833, I sowed, 

so late as early in May, a small bed of onions. A plentiful 
crop arose from the sowing; but from then till now (Sept. 12.), 
the onion plants have kept withering until half are gone. As 
the herbage or upper part of the onion was in some cases 
wholly, in others partly, eaten through at the earth’s face, it 
seemed clearly the work of insects; but as, on looking once or 
twice, I could not find any likely to have effected the mischief, 
and as I found the part of the onion bulb (very small, of 
course, from the late sowing) in the soil partly decayed as 
well as eaten, I concluded that the decay had preceded the 
insect’s (of whatever kind or kinds) eating, and was conse- 
quently owing to some condition of the soil or season ungenial 
to the onions’ anealeh and welfare. However, since the Salle 
ing rains which fell on Sept. 1st, 2d, and 3d, I have observed 
the onions to disappear altogether at one end of the bed; and 
this sight prompted me, on Sept. 14., to dig the whole up. 
The bed was 7ft. long by 33 ft. aries and, in this area, I 
found forty-seven gr ubs 3 ; most of them full grown, but some 
of them not quite so. I have imprisoned some of them in 
a pot filled with soil, in the hope of securing a moth or 


5'74 Short Communications. 


two from those of them which have attained the growth and 
feeding necessary to the condition of changing, and if the 
moths should be determined, by the entomologist to whom I 
may send them, to be not of the Triphzena (Noctua) pro- 
nuba, I will take some opportunity of stating the fact. If 
they be grubs of the T. pronuba, they will prove that my 
ascribing, in p. 504., to them a decided preference to the 
plants of the order Cruciferze or class Tetradynamia, all which 
have more or less of a mustard flavour, requires a slight qua- 
lification. It deserves notice, however, that, if the grubs of 
this moth feed also on onions, onions are still strong-flavoured 
diet. — J. D. ; 

The Insect called the Cuckoo-spit (Aphréphora spumaria). — 
J.O. Westwood, Esq., in a communication to the Magazine 
of Natural History for Sept. 1833 (No. xxxv.), on the affinities 
and characteristics of an insect (Délphax saccharivora Westw.) 
which ravages the herbage of the sugar cane (Saccharum offi- 
cinarum Z.), and which, he states, is related to the insect 
called in Britain the cuckoo-spit, has given the following 
remarks on this latter insect, which, we conceive, will be 
worth being known by our gardening friends: — ‘ Many 
of your readers have, doubtless, often observed in the spring 
a quantity of frothy matter upon various plants. This is 
caused by an insect nearly allied to the Grenada pest, and 
is commonly known by the name of the cuckoo-spit insect 
(Aphréphora spumaria). In this instance the frothy matter 
is nothing else but the sap of the plant which the insect has 
pumped up into its stomach by its snout, and afterwards 
ejected ; and we can easily conceive, if any plant were to be 
attacked by myriads of this insect, how great would be the 
damage which it would sustain; the operations of this insect, 
from the similarity in the structure of the mouth, being very 
similar to those of the plant lice: and your readers are all 
aware how exceedingly detrimental some species of the latter 
genus (A’phis) are in England; one of them, Aphis humuli, 
often occasioning damage as serious to the grower of the hop, 
as the Grenada insect does to the planter of the sugar cane.” 
See the last Number (p. 443—445.) for a full account of the 
effects on vegetation of the sap-sucking of the aphides, and of 
their mode and course of performing it. On the insect called 
the cuckoo-spit (Aphrophora spumaria) it may not be amiss to 
remark, that the perfect insects may, in September, be seen, 
devoid of all froth, and zz coztu, on the surface of herbage, 
in provision, doubtless, of eggs for the next year’s generation. 
When individuals not én coitu are met with, each skips off 
with a jump on the slightest molestation. Where the eggs 


Short Communications. 575 


are deposited, is a point we should ascertain. In spring, it is 
very astonishing to see a plant perfectly clean one day, and, 
three days afterwards, bearing a dozen balls of froth, each 
ball with an insect inside it; and this is not rarely the case. 
—J. D. 

A Utensil for transplanting, in use in the Island of Guernsey. 
—Sir, A sight, in Vol. VIII. p. 667., of a flower trans- 
planter invented by Captain Hurdis, has induced me to send 
you a figure and description of one (fg. 129.), in use among 


a few amateur florists in this island. Who its inventor is, or 
was, I know not; but I find it useful, and think it worth 
recommending. 

a is a cylinder of tin (or sheet iron), which has a wire 
rim at the top, but a sharp edge at the bottom: it has two 
strong handles. 6 is also a cylinder of tin, and is made to 
slide freely into cylinder a, and is of the same length, and 
has a horizontal rim at the bottom, a quarter of an inch in 
width. 

The application is the same as in Hurdis’s transplanter 
(Vol. VIII. p. 666.), except in using the cylinder 6 to dislodge 
the plant, instead of his two plates and pronged instrument. 
A good size is 6 in. long by 43 in. wide; but as they are very 
cheap, this size costing here 1s. 6d., it is best to have three 
or four sizes. A small one, for transplanting seedlings, is very 
handy. Iam, Sir, yours, &c.— A Member of the Guernsey 
Horticultural Book Society. Guernsey, Jan. 21. 1833. 

An Instrument to enable any one to implant Plants into 
Beds and Borders without his trampling on the Soil, invented 
by Mr. Whiddon. — Sir, I send you a sketch (jig. 130.) of a 


576 Short Communications. 


planter which I some time ago invented for planting geor- 
ginas and pelargoniums, &c., and which I do not recollect 
seeing among the implements figured and described in your 


Encyclopedia of Gardening. It is composed of two trowels ; 
one for making the required hole in the soil, and the other, 
of semi-cylindrical form, for conveying the plant to the hole. 
The conveyer is made of sheet iron, and has a round piece 
attached to it by a hinge. When used, it is slightly com- 
pressed, and the round piece brought within it, and fixed upon 
a small catch opposite to the hinge; the plant is placed in the 
conveyer upon the round piece, and handed to the hole pre- 
viously made by the common trowel, and by pressing the 
round piece, on which the plant stands, gently upon the soil, at 
the bottom of the hole, the round piece is forced off the catch, 
the conveyer springs open, and, by gently lifting up the 
planter, the plant is left in the hole; the trowel is then used 
for setting it upright, placing the soil to it, &c. The advan- 
tage I find in the planter is its rendering trampling upon the 
beds or borders unnecessary. I am, Sir, yours, &c.—Willzam 
Whiddon, Gardener. Chichley, Bucks, April 30. 1833. 

Double Pots for Marsh Plants, or for shading the Roots of 
tender Plants. — Sir, | herewith send you a plant of a little 
favourite of mine ( Villarsza reniformis). ‘The double pot I have 
planted it in, will be found well adapted to plants requiring 
constant moisture. 

You will perceive that this double pot is formed by 
simply placing one pot within another, the latter being a size 
larger than the former ( fig. 131.), and uniting them at bottom 
with a little Roman cement. The holes 
in the bottoms of both pots must be 
opened with a stick before the cement 
stiffens; otherwise, of course, the water 
in the inner pot could not escape. In 
the figure, @ is the inner pot; 8, the 
vacuity between the two pots ; and c, 
the cement which unites them at bot- 
tom. By keeping the vacuity between 
the pots (0), filled with water, the 


Short Communications. ET 


smaller or inner pot (a) will absorb moisture sufficient for 
the nourishment of the plant, provided the material of the 
pot be not too hard burnt; the water between the pots can 
at any time be emptied out, and the outer pot will then act as 
a shade for the roots of the plant in hot dry weather. 

In my humble opinion, if a cheap and simple method 
could be found for shading pots exposed to the sun, we 
should not have so many sickly scorched-looking plants in 
the summer season. I am not aware of any pots having 
been made on the above principle. — Thos. Blair. Stamford 
Fill, June 22. 1833. 

This mode of equalising the moisture and temperature of 
the exterior side of pots is, as far as our experience goes, 
quite new; and, certainly, it appears well adapted either for 
growing marsh plants, by filling the mterstices between the 
pots with water; or delicate plants easily killed either by too 
much water or by neglect of water, such as Cape heaths, by 
using moist moss instead of water. Many persons find it 
very difficult to keep heaths in warm rooms, even during the 
short time they are in bloom, without either over-watering 
them, or keeping them too dry; Mr. Blair’s pot, either with 
water or moss, would be an effectual remedy. — Cond. 

A mode of supplying plants growing in the open soil with 
water, during dry intervals of summer, practised by the Rey. 
Geo. Reading Leathes, of Shropham, Norfolk, deserves to be 
made known; and may, although it has nought of parallelism 
or likeness to Mr. Blair’s, farther than its relation to supplying 
water, be described here. Soil dried to dustiness resists water ; 
and not every assistant whom one may request to water the 
plants, which may be languishing in the garden, will take the 
patient and honest pains to give them the thorough soaking 
they require. When the soil about a plant or plants is dried 
to dustiness, the moistening it by watering requires that water 
be applied in a small quantity at a time, and repeatedly. The 
doing this occupies much time; yet you must either do this, 
or open with the spade, at the foot of the plant, a hole that 
will receive at once a larger supply of water; and this latter 
mode has the effect of leaving the gully hole, as it may be 
termed, and the earth which had been taken out of it, exposed 
to view; an offensive sight to those who have a passion for 
evenness of surface in the soil of their gardens. Mr. Leathes 
practises neither of these modes; but, as an equivalent to 
both, sinks into the soil, at the foot of the plant requiring 
water, a flower-pot, immersed to the half or whole of its height 
or depth, with its size proportioned to the quantity of water 

Vou. IX.— No. 46. PP 


578 Short Communications. 


which the constitution of the plant may indicate it to need, 
and with the drain hole of the pot left open at the bottom. 
When each of the plants most liable to injury from drought 
has received the apposition of a flower-pot sunk at its base, 
the watering of all these plants is thenceforth effectible with 
an increase in the rate of despatch, quite or more than equi- 
valent, ina drought of some duration, to the first expenditure of 
time and trouble: besides, too, the valuable satisfaction sup- 
plied to him who takes this trouble, of feeling conscious that 
every plant receives the whole, and directly to it roots, of the 
quantity you may please to pour into the sunk flower-pot; 
through the drain hole at the bottom of which the water passes 
at a rate determined by the degree of absorbency in the soil, 
without detaining him who supplies it until it has soaked 
away. — J. D. 

A Tally for Aquatic Plants. —The kind of tally which I find 
the best for aquatic plants is formed of a piece of wood, about 
an inch and a quarter by three quarters of an inch, painted, 
except the bevelled top, which I rnb with white lead (in the 
manner usual for marking-sticks), pretty thick; I form the 
number with a black-lead pencil. ‘The length of the tally 
must be such as to allow four or six inches to stand above the 
water. It is useful to char the points of the tallies. — HZ. T. 
Ellicombe. Vicarage, Bitton, near Bristol, Sept. 9. 1832. 

Tallies for the ordinary soil of gardens, have, with Mr. 
Claughton of Hasland, near Derby, lasted 25 years, as pre- 
pared thus :—Make them of thoroughly dried red deal; soak 
them for some time in linseed oil; dry them until the oil is 
dried off their surface, and paint them twice with verdigrise 
paint. —J. D. 

Labels made of malleable zine deserve to be tried. Zine 
rolled in sheets, and to the thickness of a shilling, or rather 
less, is sold for roofs and many other purposes, at the Western 
Malleable Zinc Works, Keppel Row, New Road (near 
Fitzroy Square), London; and these sheets may, without 
difficulty, be cut up into labels. On one painted once with 
white paint, we last winter wrote, while the paint was wet, the 
words ‘ Glafix maritima,” and on another, painted twice, the 
same words: both are now (May 13.), satisfactorily legible. 
The sheet zinc seems applicable to a great number of econo- 
mical purposes. It is said to be superior to lead for lightness 
and durability, and to be sold at half the price. 

Metallic Labels for Plants to be sent abroad. — Sir, 
Various forms have been given, in this Magazine, for labels 
for plants. I herewith send you a specimen (/g.132.), made 


Short Communications. 579 


from the waste of tin-plate work- 

ers; so that the rate of expense 

29 required for any number of 

similar ones will be but little, 

and they will answer well for 

attaching to trees and plants 

about to be sent abroad, as they 

will not be liable to be defaced 

by dampness on the voyage, as 

132 labels made of parchment are: 

6 occasionally to the total obliter- 

ation of the name or number. 

By having tin labels cut (as a), 

or copper ones (as b), they may 

easily be attached to the plant 

by turning the narrowed end 

round the stem or branch. The 

polish on the tin and copper may be readily taken off, either 

by washing the tin or copper with a weak acid, cream of 

tartar, or an apple. The ink of the inscription, applied with 

a common pen, then sinks freely into the pores of the metal. 

It is then run over with boiled linseed oil, to protect it from 

being defaced. —M. Saul. Sulyard Street, Lancaster, Feb. 
23. 1833. 

This paragraph, and that above on the possible fitness of 
zinc for labels, have stood four months in type. Since they 
were put in type, Mr. Saul has written (on June 17th) to 
state that a correspondent of his (Mr. Thom) advises the 
employment of zinc plate in preference to tin plate, in 
making the labels recommended by Mr. Saul, who, however, 
still thinks that tin plate will well answer the purpose. Mr. 
Thom uses zinc labels for naming his growing fruit trees ; 
they are made 5 in. long and 13 in. broad, and have a hole 
perforated near each end, through which is passed a small 
cord by which they are attached to the tree. As cord is 
liable to rot early, and wire, if overlooked, constrains the 
growing branch, and becomes buried in the wood and bark 
which forms over it, it is a question worth being asked, will 
not some mode of attaching the labels like that figured in 
Vol. III. p. 470. be worth adopting, as well in application to 
trees to be packed for a voyage or long journey, as to trees 
that are growing? —J. D. 

A Mouse Trap for Gardens or other Places. —I1 form my 
traps of articles which are at hand in most gardens. I take 
a large-sized garden pan, and place in it a small hand glass, 
such as is used in striking Pink pipings, through which I 

PP 


580 Short Communications. 


readily see, when the glass is down, if it 
contains a prisoner. When the trap 
(fig. 133.) is set, the edge of the hand 
glass is nicely placed on the curve of a thin 
piece of wood, and the bait, say a bean, 
is attached to the inward end of this piece of wood. I 
would add, 
“ Keep traps to extirpate those pests, cats, mice, and rats ; 
For where’s the gardener who works to please the cats ?”’ 

— Wm. Godsall. Hereford, Sept. 29. 1832. 

The mouse trap here described is, in principle, strictly 
identical with that described in Vol. VII. p. 219.; but the 
garden pan and the small hand glass seem more eligible and 
ready instruments by which to apply it. 

In the transplanting of Trees, it 1s advantageous to place the 
respective Sides of each opposite those Points of the Compass 
towards which they had formerly grown.—Sir, Evelyn, in 
1660, asserted that not one in a hundred of transplanted 
trees would miscarry if they were planted in the same as- 
pect; that is, with that side which faced the south, again 
towards the south. In Germany this point is not lost sight 
of: here, I fear, it is little noticed, although it could be 
easily effected by marking, with a brush and a little white- 
wash, the trees, before removal, all on one side, say the south 
side. Mr. Maund, in a late number of The Botanic Garden, 
also gives his testimony in favour of this practice. I am, 
Sir, yours, &c.—C. M. W. July 29. 1833. 

Cassia multiglandulosa Jac. (tomentosa Lam.) thrives besé 
in the open Air, in the following Circumstances: — A fine 
individual of this beautiful shrub is now growing in the open 
air, in the garden of G. Graham, Esq., of Stoke Fleming, 
Slapton, near Dartmouth, Devonshire. It was planted in 
the spring of 1831, against an eastern-aspected wall, and in 
a rich light soil, and soon assumed a vigorous appearance. 
It has continued in flower ever since, and at Christmas last it 
displayed 150 corymbs of expanded flowers, and continues 
one of the greatest ornaments of the garden. It is at this 
present time 84 ft. high; spreading laterally 5 ft.; it displays 
230 bunches of flowers in full bloom. During the two 
winters it has been in its present situation, it has been pro- 
tected by night with a reed covering, and the roots were 
covered about 3 ft. from the stem to the depth of 4 in. with 
old tan. — J. Mitchell, Jun., Gardener. Slapton, near Dari- 
mouth, Devonshire, June 26. 1833. 

The Cassia multiglandulosa will thrive and flower satis- 
factorily, trained on the eastern or southern side of a wall, in 


Short Communications. 581 


any English garden, during summer, but not survive the 
winter, as in the above instance in Devonshire, and in the 
counties adjoining, where the mildness of the winters is a fact 
familiar to most. The following proofs of this are so truly 
of the gardening kind as to merit being quoted; they are 
taken from The Panorama of Torquay, a Descriptive and 
ENstorical Sketch of the District comprised between the Rivers 
Dart and Teign ; by Octavian Blewitt ; 2d edit. 1832, p. 55. 

“ The following lists of plants, grown as hardy exotics in 
the gardens of Torquay, afford a good illustration of the 
influence of this climate on the various productions of orna- 
mental horticulture : — 

“ First List. — Agapanthus umbellatus, Azalea indica 
phoenicea, A. Jedifolia Hook., Macleaya cordata*, Céreus 
phylanthoides, Cassia capénsis, Helianthemum canum, H. 
formosum, Citrus Médica, the lemon; C. Limonum Dec., the 
citron; Rochea odoratissima, Dracocéphalum canariénse, 
Fichsia coccinea, F. gracilis, Gladiolus cardinalis, Alonsda 
linearis, Hibbértza volubilis, Jasminum grandiflorum, J. 
revolutum, Magnolza conspicua, M. obovata, Eriobétrya 
japonica, Metrosidéros floribindus, Maurandya Barclaydna, 
Petunia nyctaginiflora, Pittdsporum Tobira, Rubus rose- 
folius, Verbéna bonariénsis, VY. chameedrifolia, Véstia lycio- 
ides. 

** Second List. — Agave americana, A’ster capénsis [?], 
Bignonza capreolata, B. Pandore [Técoma australis]; Cal- 
ceolaria corymbosa, Herbertzana, and plantaginea; Calla [Ri- 
chardia] zethidpica, Matthiola tristis, Cineraria populifolia, 
Cistus roseus, C. incanus, Coronilla glaica, Fachsza lycioides, 
IF. macrophylla, F. macrocarpa [?], Alonsda_ incisifolia, 
Latrus Caémphora, Linum arbdreum, Magnolia purpirea, 
Marrubium candidum [probably M. Psetdo-Dictamnus, or 
M. candidissimum], Pednza Mottan, Punica Granatum, 
Salvia biflora, S. purpurea, Verbena chameedrifolia, Yucca 
aloifolia, Y. gloridsa. 


* As a fact illustrative of the sentiment, “ nothing venture, nothing 
have,” or, in other words, that useful knowledge is gained by bold experi- 
ments, it may be worth the space to notice, even at this late date, that De 
Candolle, in his Systema, vol. ii. p. 92., states that, up to the time of his 
visiting the English gardens, the French usually kept this plant (whose old 
name is Bocconia cordata Willd.) in glass-houses, where it grew but lan- 
guidly : his words are : “hanc speciem in caldariis saepius languidé servatam, 
leetissimé vigentem sub dio vidi in plurimis hortis Anglicis, et usque ad 
Norwich in horto Hookeriano.” The season, however, at which he visited 
England did not enable him to observe and to state, that, although this 
plant is in England grown as a hardy one, its first shoots are almost every 
spring killed by frost. —J. D. 

J) 19) 


582 Short Communications. 


“‘ The lists are inserted in separate forms, as they have 
been drawn up, the first from the garden of Miss Southcote; 
and the second from that of Mrs. Johnes. The plants in 
these lists are cultivated under the management of two very 
intelligent gardeners: the first of Mr. Thomas Ingram; the 
seooul. of Mr. John Gullet.” [In case any one should com- 
pare our copy of the lists with the lists given in the Panorama, 
we had better state that we have substituted the modern 
names of the plants for the obsolete ones. ] 

‘¢ The citron mentioned in the first list has been cultivated 
with great success for fifteen years, at Myrtle Cottage, the 
residence of Miss Southcote. It has produced fruit mea~ 
suring 242 in. in circumference: in 1824, two specimens of 
its fruit bore off the palm at the exhibition of the Horticul- 
tural Society in Regent Street, London. Pelargoniums, end 
myrtles of all kinds, grow luxuriantly in Torquay : the latter 
are frequently trained along the walls of houses, in different 
parts of the town, and require no shelter in the winter. The 
Verbena triphYlla [Aloysia citriodora] also attains a con- 
siderable size, resembling the arbutus in the strength and 
power of its growth. At “‘Ladyday, in the present year, 1832, 
we observed, on Park Hill, Lathyrus odoratus, the sweet pea, 
which had stood the pr eceding winter, and was then showing 
for bloom. ‘The orange flourishes in great beauty at ‘Tor- 
quay; but as it has never been exposed during the winter, as 
the citron and the lemon mentioned in the first list, it cannot 
be included in the list of exotics growing in the open air. 
There can be no doubt that it would succeed; for, as Mr. 
Loudon has observed, the orange is much less tender than 
the lemon. ‘The cottages in the neighbouring villages are 
frequently overgrown with roses, which run to a considerable 
height, and require no shelter in the severest winters. In 
summer evenings the water of Torbay flashes with the oar, 
as in tropical climates, and the effect produced by the phos- 
phorescence of the waves, wher beating against the walls of 
the pier, is truly beautiful.” As this last sentence suggests 
warmth of climate, we have, although it says nought on 
plants, retained it in the quotation. EE SD 

An Accumulation of Facts on the Results of Bupepinens on 
acclimatising Exotic Plants suggested. —Sir, In the early 
volumes of this Magazine there were several articles on the 
subject of acclimatising plants: see Vol. I. p. 213. for one 
from the Horticultural gardens; Vol. II. p. 123. for one 
from Rusticus in Urbe; and at p. 239. one from the Botanic 
Garden, Edinburgh ; and in Vol. III. p. 48. from Mr. John 
Street, at Biel, in East Lothian, who has given the names of 


Short Communications. 583 


a pretty large number of green-house plants, which had 
withstood the winter at that place. On reading these several 
articles, I was led to trouble you with the few lines in 
Vol. VI. p. 229., dated Clowance, Cornwall, soliciting ‘from 
some one or more of your numerous correspondents, a list, 
or lists, of such exotics, indigenous to warmer climates than 
our own, as, upon trial, had been found to endure our most 
severe winters without protection.” However, as nothing of 
the kind has yet appeared in your pages, will you permit me 
once more to endeavour to draw the attention of your readers 
to this subject ? as I cannot but think that, if a list of the 
kind were produced, it would be valuable. 

It would be invidious in me to attempt to give even a hint 
on the arrangement of such a list or catalogue; as your 
ffortus Britannicus is a sufficient evidence that this is not 
wanted from any one. A very few pages in your Magazine 
would be sufficient for the purpose, and there are doubtless 
many of your readers who have been practically engaged in 
making experiments upon exotics by endeavouring to accli- 
matise them. It, therefore, only remains for them to send you 
the result of their experiments, by giving you the names of 
those they have succeeded in, with such particulars as may 
be deemed necessary respecting any particular plant or 
plants; as, namely, whether grown in the open ground, or 
trained against a wall, &c.; not omitting the county they are 
growing in, as there may be many that will stand out through 
the winter in our southern and western counties, that will 
not in the counties which lie north; and thus, under your 
arrangement, we might hope shortly to have the pleasure of 
perusing such a list as I conceive to be very desirable. 

Should this article meet with a favourable reception on 
your part, and be in any wise instrumental in bringing others 
to the point in question, I shall be happy to become a con- 
tributor, by sending you a list of such acclimatised plants as 
have come under my observation in the western part of 
England, which might be incorporated with those you may 
receive from other persons. I am, Sir, yours, &c. — 7. 
Rutger. Shortgrove, Essex, August 24. 1833. 

In relation to this subject, see the articles referred to in the 
index to Vol. VIII. of this Magazine, under the title “ Ac- 
climatising half-hardy exotics to the seasons of Britain,” and 
some remarks by E. B., in p. 245. of the present (IXth) 
Volume; and a consideration of Mr. Munro’s suggestions, in 
the present Number, p. 555., on the causes of the particular 
disease in the larch, which he describes, may be applied to 
the present subject, in useful admonition to the experimenter 

jp YP as 


584 Short Communications. 


in acclimatisation, he should make it his foremost object so 
to condition the plants which he may attempt to acclimatise, 
as to prevent too luxuriant growth, or, in the words of Mr. 
Munro, “ compel them, as it were, to deposit only a mode- 
rate annual layer of alburnum, or wood, such as our year can 
ripen, and thus secure a firm and healthy nucleus for future 
depositions.” —J. D. 

The Result of planting a Group of Species of Cape Heaths 
in the open Soil and Air of Cornwall: connected more or less 
with the preceding Sulyect of Acclimatisation.— Sir, What 
E. B. has, in p. 245., said, in his concluding paragraph, on the 
causes and prevention of mildew in Cape heaths, respecting 
the trying of them out of doors in Cornwall, prompts me 
once more to intrude myself on your notice; and, although 
my practice does not exactly apply to the hint given, still it 
may perhaps be not altogether unacceptable. 

During my residence in Cornwall, having a number of 
duplicates of Cape heaths for disposal, I was struck with the 
idea that a clump of them out of doors would have a novel 
effect, and that they, if they flowered well, would make a 
handsome addition to the flower-garden. I accordingly made 
choice of a situation; and, after excavating, and laying a thick 
drainage of brickbats, broken pots, &c., which I covered 
with dead fern roots and other matter, I covered it with peat 
earth to the depth of about 10 in., and in the month of April 
turned out my plants, many of which grew to admiration, 
and flowered beautifully the following autumn. Having 
succeeded thus far, and feeling fearful lest they should 
be disfigured, or, perhaps, killed, by the winter’s frost, I 
proceeded to erect a temporary frame over them, with melon 
lights, old sashes, and feather-edged boards ; the latter 
serving for the back, and nearly half of the roof, sloped back- 
wards, and the old sashes for the front and ends, so that the 
whole, when finished, looked something like a little green- 
house. ‘The lights were always off in mild weather, and also 
in frosty weather during the day when the sun shone. In 
the month of April the frame was removed, and during the 
summer the plants grew rapidly, presenting a most beautiful 
foliage, with flowers of a very superior character, and, con- 
sequently, were much admired by all who saw them. The 
species consisted of Lrica coccinea, verticillata, grandiflora, 
cruénta, ignéscens, versicolor, mammdsa, costata, tubiflora, 
Archerédna, curviflora, concinna, exsirgens, vestita, cerin- 
thoides, ventricdsa, baccans, uhria [? Ewerzana], Sparrmannz, 
spuria, and melastoma, with some others which I do not now 
remember. At the end of three years, when I left, the plants 


Short Communications. 585 


had arrived at a fine state of maturity, presenting a foliage 
delightful to the view, with a profusion of flowers in succes- 
sion, according to their different seasons of flowering, far 
superior to any I had ever before, or have ever since, seen. 
I am inclined to think that very few of the Cape heaths will 
survive the winters in Cornwall entirely without protection: 
however, I know of one exception, in the Lrica scoparia, 
which, although not possessed of so much floral beauty 4s many 
others are, is, when it has grown up conically to the height 
of 4 ft. or 5 ft., in the very delicate and beautiful appearance 
of its foliage, a truly interesting species: in this state it has 
a most attractive appearance, and has been much admired. 
A plant of this species has stood out for the last three winters, 
and when I saw it last autumn, it was in full vigour, and 
highly ornamental as a shrub in the place where it stood. I am, 
Sir, yours, &c.— T. Rutger. Shortgrove, Essex, August, 1833. 

A Mode of inducing Callidpsis bicolor, C. Atkinsoniana, and 
similar-habited Plants, to bear their Blossoms nearer the 
Ground than they usually do.—Sir, As the Callidpsis bicolor 
[Coredépsis tinctoria], Atkinsonzdna, and several species of 
the same and other families, are not desirable for massing out 
in small clumps, owing to the height they grow; this ob- 
jection to them may be diminished by laying them down. 
In about the beginning of August sow seeds of them in pots, 
and place them in a moderate hot-bed; when the plants are 
of a size to plant out, plant them 5 or 6 in. apart, on the 
square, on any spare bit of ground. By the Ist or the 
middle of June, in the following year, most of the clumps will 
be cleared of spring decorations ; then have any one of 
them which you wish to embellish with a golden hue pre- 
pared, and take up the plants of Callidpsis, &c., (most of 
which, by this time, will have attained the height of 18 in. or 
2 ft., and be showing flower,) with balls. Select the tallest, or 
those as nearly of a size as possible; lay them down on the 
surface of the clump, on the spot where they are to be in- 
serted; first, the highest on the circumference, with the tops 
extending an inch or two on the verge; then the small ones 
in the centre (or those of the same size, if you have them) 
with the tops lying in different directions alternately, or in 
one, it matters not, so as you make them them regular. 
Plant obliquely, and peg down those round the outside about 
6 in. from the verge, and those on the inside 5 or 6in. or 
more from their tops, according to the strength of the plant. 
In two or three days the tender tops will have an erect 
position; in two or three weeks they will flower in a flat mass 
from 10 to 14 in. high, and the laterals will continue to grow 


586 Short Communications. 


and flower until ‘‘ winter comes on wi its cauld icy coat.” Iam, 
Sir, yours, &c.— George Thomson. High Elms, July 1. 1833. 

A Plant of Hydrangea horténsis in the rector y garden, Sel- 
worthy, Slonaeienie hte measured in 1832 forty feet in circum- 
ference. —W. C. Trevalyan. Wallington, Jan. 28. 1832. 

Periploca gre‘ca, its Flowers should be used sparingly in 
Nosegays. — Perhaps so; as I have been led to conceive, that 
the blossoms contain some deleterious property, from my 
having observed the pavement under a blooming plant of 
Periploca to be literally covered with dead flies, of the species 
Miasca doméstica, while a great quantity of the same species 
swarmed amongst, and settled upon, the blossoms. — William 
Godsall. Hereford, Sep. 29. 1832. 

Snuff and Tobacco made from English-grown Plants of the 
Nicotiana rugosa and 'Tabacum. — Sir, I have often been 
tempted to send you a letter on the subject of tobacco; but, 
seeing it taken up by others of your correspondents, I have 
hitherto as often abandoned the intention. The letter of E. 
S.(p. 121)., and the remarks thereon, have at last induced me 
to send you a sample of snuff of my own manufacture, from 
English-grown tobacco ; but, as I am in the wake of others, I 
shall not inflict on you a lengthy epistle. 

In 1830 I grew two species of tobacco, the Nicotiana 
rugosa and N. Yabacum. After their herbage had been duly 
fermented, dried, and fermented again; being moistened, to 
that end, by sprinkling with a little new perry (this second 
fermentation is, as EK. S. contends, indispensable to the at- 
tainment of the maximum of quality in the flavour, &c., of the 
herb), I found the former of a rank sweetish flavour, and fit 
for no other purpose than fumigation; for which ever since it 
has been successfully employed. Part of the N. Tabdcum 
I made into cigars, these were rolled too tight ; part was cut 
up for the pipe, and the remainder made into moist snuff; 
both these last were pronounced, by better judges than myself, 
to be very good, and could in nowise be distinguished in 
appearance from what might be procured at the tobacconists’. 
The midribs of the leaves, after remaining a considerable time, 
and having become perfectly dry and brittle, were reduced to 
a fine powder in a mortar, and dried, to imitate high-dried 
Welsh snuff. ‘This it does very nearly; but more especially 
that patronised by the Marquess of Anglesea, manufactured by 
a man of the name of Ranson, of Ipswich. Indeed, there is 
much less difference between this and my own, than between 
much that (going under the same name) is the produce of 
different makers. It is of this that I send you, herewith, a 
small quantity; I have none of the others remaining, and 


Short Communications. 587 


but little similar to that sent. I had purposed cultivating 
other kinds of the genus Nicotédna, and went so far as to 
send for seeds; but I failed at that time in procuring them, 
and have since been otherwise too closely occupied to enter 
on further trials. 

The seeds were sown in pots in a hot-bed, on the 20th of 
March ; transplanted on the 30th April; due attention paid 
to “‘ topping” (nipping off the tops as soon as the flowers show), 
* suckering” (picking out the incipient shoots of the axils of 
the leaves), ‘‘ worming” (destroying, by the hand, a kind of 
erub that infests the plants, but of which I do not know the 
name), and protecting from slugs which devour it greedily, 
and make sad havoc with the leaves, if not carefully defended 
from their attacks. I gathered the N. Tabdcum from the 24th 
of July to the 7th of August; the N. rugdsa from the 7th 
to the 29th of the latter month. I am, Sir, yours, &c. — 
J. C.K. Levant Lodge, Feb. 1833. 

The sample of snuff sent by J. C. K. we committed to the 
cognizance of a most experienced snuff-taker, who reports on 
it as far too defective in pungency to afford him pleasure or 
satisfaction in the taking of it.—J. D. 

The Fruit of Strawberries preserved free from Grit, and the 
Attacks of Slugs, by covering the Soil under the Fruit with a 
Layer of the short Grass mown off Lawns. — As the fruit of 
the strawberry is, with many, a thing of consequence, the pre- 
servation of it from the several casualties to which, on its 
attaining maturity, it is liable, is, or ought to be, an object of 
as much solicitude: to point out a preservative from one or 
more of the evils which endanger it, will be my endeavour in 
the present communication. I generally grow the large sorts 
in rows from 20 in. to 2 ft. apart, and a considerable quantity 
in a single row between the box edging and the gooseberry 
bushes, which form the narrow border of the quarters. ‘These 
distances I consider the best for Keen’s seedling, Wilmot’s 
superb, &c., the crop of which is as good in the fifth year as 
in the third, and better than that in the second. ‘The small 
sorts, as the early scarlet, Duke of Kent’s scarlet, the Rose- 
berry, &c., may be grown with as much advantage on narrow 
beds, 3 ft. or 4 ft. wide, and if renewed every three or four 
years. In the case of the smaller sorts, they being so close 
together, the following method might be dispensed with, or, 
at least, it is not necessary; but in the large kinds above 
named, owing to the isolatedness of the rows, and the heavi- 
ness of the bunches of fruit, these latter lie on the soil, and, 
when rain falls, are covered with grit, and they likewise lie so 
convenient for slugs, that many are destroyed by them. ‘To 


588 Short Communications. 


obviate these liabilities, I have tried several expedients, but 
none had the required effect, until it occurred to me this sea- 
son that short grass laid between the rows would answer the 
purpose. ‘This I have applied with perfect success, especially 
as to the grit. ‘There is no gentlemen’s place without the 
material at the time at which it is required for this purpose, 
and the application of it 2in. or 3in. thick does not con- 
‘sume much time. It is not only useful in the above in- 
stances, but it acts as a non-conductor of evaporation from 
the soil below, whether you water it artificially, or the more 
general rain administer the moisture: it also chokes most 
sorts of weeds, and destroys the vegetation of their seeds ; and 
it may be taken off, or allowed to remain, after the crop is 
done. It is best to apply it mm a dry time, before the straw- 
berries begin to get ripe; when the slugs have sought shelter 
in less exposed situations ; after which it forms so bad a path 
for them to slide along, that they cannot overcome the diffi- 
culty. If any should remain, a watering with lime-water, or 
urine (as Mr. Gorrie recommends), will extirpate them. The 
above may not be new to some gardeners, but, as I have never 
heard it suggested, nor seen it done, it may be to a few, ifnot 
to many. — George Thomson. High Elms, July 1. 1833. 
The Earliness of Bishop’s Early Dwarf Pea and the Early 
Frame Pea compared.— Sir, In this Magazine are many 
opinions on the merits and demerits of Bishop’s early dwarf 
pea. In Vol. VI. p. 723., and Vol. VIII. p. 584., appear 
two very opposite statements concerning its earliness, as com- 
pared with that of the early frame: the one affirms that there 
were fifteen days in favour of the latter’s earliness ; the other, 
fifty-three days in favour of the earliness of the former. Such 
calculations are apt to mislead even the most wary; I thought 
it very strange if they could be both right. Having received 
some true seed of each sort, I marked the foilowing dates, to 
satisfy myself on the subject. On Dec. 14. 1832, I sowed 
thinly, in 32-sized pots, Bishop’s early dwarf, and the early 
frame on the 24th of the same month; I kept them both in a 
cold pit until about the middle of March, when I turned them 
out. I planted Bishop’s early dwarf with balls entire, 9 in. 
from a wall on a south aspect, and 20 in. apart in the line; of 
the early frame each ball was made into six or seven divisions, 
and planted in rows across a border, but not opposite the 
other: it had no shade. I could gather a dish from the early 
frame on the 20th of May; when I could not obtain so much 
from twice as many of Bishop’s early dwarf on the 26th ; not- 
withstanding the latter had, from being so near the ground, a 
superiority of temperature, both day and night, of five or six 


Short Communications. 589 


degrees at an average. ‘The Bishop’s early dwarf comes into 
bloom, and drops its blossom, nearly as soon as the early 
frame ; but it is longer in filling its pods: however, in conse- 
quence of its dwarfness and productiveness, it is without an 
equal for forcing in houses, pits, or frames. I am, Sir, yours, 
&c. — George Thomson. High Elms, July 3. 1833. 

A Note on the Planting of Potatoes. — Persons have whole 
acres of potatoes rotting, about Dublin, every spring. ‘The 
cause is assigned to every thing but the right thing. ‘The 
Irishman’s mode of planting the potato is, to cover the seed 
potatoes with dung in the drills, to keep them warm, and to 
spread out the cut seed in the barn, to keep it from rotting; 
and both acts have just the opposite effect with early potatoes. 
In planting potatoes in the end of April, or the month of 
May, it is immaterial whether the seed be planted under the 
dung or above it, in the drills; for at that season the potato 
will grow freely either way: but earlier in the season, as 
February and March, it is of the utmost importance that the 
seed should lie on the top of the dung, for then it lies ina 
situation warmer, by several degrees, than it does when under 
it; and besides lying dry, it gets the benefit of the atmo- 
spheric air, which cannot penetrate through the cold wet 
dung to the seed, when the seed is placed beneath it. ‘The 
air about Dublin, when not freezing, is mostly about 40° to 
45°, and sometimes to 50°, through the winter and spring 
months: this air presses through the earth as far as the 
potato that lies in the dung; but does not penetrate to the 
seed under it. Air, heat, and water are the causes of 
vegetation; and the air the main spring. The drills being 
dug with the spade, when filled in with the dung and earth, 
are much looser than the space between, and answer as a 
receptacle for all the wet that falls; the seed lying so long 
dormant, and in such a cold wet bed, has no other chance 
but to rot. The potatoes likewise, after being cut, should not 
be spread out to dry, but laid up in a close heap for about 
a fortnight before planting. ‘The air at that early season is 
too cold for them fresh cut, and damages the seed before it is 
put into the ground: when laid in a heap they will not rot. 
But where is the advantage of planting potatoes of any sort 
earlier than the middle of March, for vegetation does not 
commence in them till then? Itis the height of absurdity to 
blame the salt water, or to deem them to have been damaged 
in the ship: when, if we do but think a little, the real cause 
may be found easily enough. Iam, Sir, yours, &c. — James 
Hart. Dublin, April 27. 1833. 

[Our correspondent has subsequently pursued this subject 
in the following communication. ] 


590 Short Communications. 


The kinds of potato which, on being planted here, miss 
growing are imported from Scotland every spring; as it 
seems that the offspring from them, as grown here, dege- 
nerate so much as to be incapable of producing a second 
crop: they are called Scotch pink eye, and Scotch apple. In 
the pink eye, and I dare say in the other kind also, the lower 
part of the potato is too ripe; whence I would recommend that 
at least two cuts be taken off from the lower end, or the end 
next the stalk, of each potato, and applied to the feeding of pigs, 
or otherwise sonia for they are quite unfit to occupy 
ground with; as every one of them rots, leaving vacancies in 
every drill. Let the cutting of the seed be done out of hand, 
as quick as possible, and the whole laid up in a close eonital 
heap against the wall of the house. ‘They are cut in the air 
here, which condition has an almost instantaneous bad effect 
on them, for when they lie flat on the floor they in the course 
of forty-eight hours get a blue colour, and become quite soft, 
although by gathering them together they will get firm again, 
and partly come to a white colour: their vegetative power is, 
however, gone; pitch them to the dunghill. Mr. Mallet has 
about an acre of the Scotch pink eye planted here this spring, 
from seed that I purchased on the quay of Dublin, out of a 
ship direct from Campbelton; and the crop (except a part 
of the field that had been planted with about 2 cwt. of seed 
that had lain flat on the floor not more than forty-eight hours 
before I detected the mischief) is a good one, say with a 
miss of not more than one quarter: a clear proof that the 
Scotchman does not steep his potatoes in salt water to prevent 
their growing. 

I think it may be possible that the potato from Scotland 
may not every year be too ripe; but, tomake sure work, the 
bottom cuts and top ones should be kept separate. When 
the pink eye is planted immediately after being cut, the cuts 
rot in the ground, the same as those of it do which have been 
spread out on the floor. When laid up in a heap, as above 
recommended, in the course of a fortnight they will either 
begin to sprout, or their bud will begin to swell; and, when 
they do this, you may plant them with safety: about a ton 
may be laid in a heap, only so pack them that as few of them 
as possible may be on the floor. It appears to me that the 
Scotch pink eye would do better, and come sooner to market, 
if not planted among the dung ; for I see it loses time before 
its roots get properly established in the earth. I, in conse- 
quence, think that more benefit would accrue if the dung were 
dug or ploughed into the ground when the potatoes are set- 
ting off in growth. Then drill the same as for peas or beans 


Short Communications. 591 


with a hoe, or draw a shallow drill with the plough, and draw 
the earth in, covering with the hoe, so that a small ridge may 
be formed over the seed, but do not beat it down. I am 
speaking on the assumption that the whole of this work be 
commenced in the beginning of March, as indicated in my 
previous communication. If all this be observed, the early 
potato will be plentiful enough about Dublin next summer. 
They have this year (1833) failed not only in acres, but in 
forces [ ? scores] of acres ; and persons here have, this season, 
had to replant all the ground with some one or other of the 
native kinds of potato: this is not the first year that they have 
missed here, but it seems they never before missed so com- 
pletely as in this year.— James Hart. Drumcondra, Dublin, 
July 10. 1833. 

A Norfolk Tankard Turnip grown in Ireland to the Weight 
of Thirty-six Pounds Avoirdupois. — Sir, As a matter of 
curiosity, and to show you that we have both a fine climate, 
and a productive soil (indeed I do not remember ever seeing 
an old abbey or cathedral situated otherwise), I may mention 
that a turnip of the Norfolk tankard variety was pulled in 
this demesne, which weighed no less than 36lbs. avoirdupois. 
— J. Elles. Palace Gardens, Armagh, Dec. 4. 1832. 

Lhe propagating of Cabbages by Slips and Cuttings (p. 226.). 
—The first shoots only are applicable to such a purpose; the 
second run to seed. (Maund’s Botanic Garden, June, 1833.) 
This fact, one of some consequence, is stated by Mr. Maund, 
on the cover of his number of the Botanic Garden for Sep- 
tember, to be supplementary to the information on this subject 
in p. 126, 127., and to have been communicated to him by 
the author of that article, Peter Kendall, Esq. 

A Melon Plant grown by the Author of the “ Domestic Gar- 
dener’s Manual,” in soil which did not suit it (a puny plant, 
as we are informed), sent its roots through the wall of the pit, 
into a small cistern of water adjoining, and there produced 
what Dr. Keith calls the “ fox-tail root.” This is nothing 
more than what we should have expected with any other 
dicotyledonous fibrous-rooted plant, tree, or shrub, similarly 
circumstanced ; but our ingenious and philosophic corre- 
spondent thinks it a proof that the melon is an aquatic or 
amphibious plant. — Cond. 

Tagetes lucida, a half-hardy annual, the herb of which 
is delightfully fragrant when dried, is found to give vinegar 
very nearly the same high flavour as tarragon. ‘This fact, 
which may be useful to those who, like ourselves, are fond 
of tarragon vinegar, was stated to us by W. Wells, Esq., of 
Redleaf, and we have since proved it ourselves. — Cond. 


REVIEWS. 


Art. I. Verhandlungen des Vereins zur Beforderung des Gar- 
tenbaues in den Koniglich Preussischen Staaten. Transactions 
of the Society for the Advancement of Gardening in the Royal 
Prussian States. 4to, 2 Plates. Vol. V. Berlin, 1829. 


(Continued from p. 96.) 


10. Some Observations on the Culture of Alpine Plants. 
By Dr. Link. 

Puants are called alpine when their natural habitations are 
where trees cannot exist, such as the tops of mountains, or 
very high degrees of latitude. ‘They are, however, often 
found in various low situations, where they flower and pro- 
duce their seeds as well as in those higher regions; but this 
is always referable to the agency of wind or water, which 
convey the seeds from their original places of growth to the 
lower parts of the country. These plants will grow very 
well in a bed in the garden, the soil of which should consist 
of one part peat, one part leaf-mould, and two parts pasture 
ground, mixed with a little sand: the principal object of their 
culture, however, is moisture. ‘The alpine plants, although 
they are in winter chiefly protected by snow in their native 
places, can stand very severe frosts, to which they are 
often exposed before the snow falls, or after it is melted. 
They are also not much injured by the heat of the sun. In 
their natural situation they are continually exposed to ex- 
treme changes; from severe frost during the night, to the 
burning rays of the sun and to tempests during the day. 
Artificial rockwork for the cultivation of these plants is of no 
other use than for ornament. ‘The cultivation of alpine 
plants in pots is in so far preferable as it is easier to supply 
them with those advantages which they have in their wild 
state: in winter they may be removed to a cool moist place, 
instead of exposing them to the dry frosts; in summer they 
can be kept moist, which is the most essential part in the 
cultivation of alpine plants. 


11. On the Method to increase the Production of Vines, and to 
protect them from Spring Frosts. By Baron Kottwitz. 


The vine is manured with bullock’s blood in autumn, and 
the shoots are laid down and covered with dry leaves; by 


Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 593 


which they are protected against severe frosts, and also in 
the beginning of spring against those fine days which occa- 
sion their early vegetation. ‘They are pruned in spring after 
the leaves are removed. 


16. Some Observations on the Chestnut (Fagus Castanea). 
By M. Hansen. 

The wood of the chestnut, he says, is of little value for 
firing or for building ; but it is very durable in the ground, as 
much so as that of the best oaks. If used as casks for wine, 
it gives the liquor not only a beautiful colour, but also an 
agreeable flavour. 


17. Description of the Imperial Garden at Nikita. 
By Dr. von Steven. 


This garden was laid out in the year 1812, during the 
time of the governor Duc de Richelieu. It is about half a Ger- 
man mile long and 500 fathoms broad, along the shore of 
the Black Sea. It was first designed for plants from warmer 
climates only, but now fruit trees are also cultivated in it to 
supply the increasing population. 


18. Observations on the Growth of Plants during different Times of 
the Day. By M. Meyer, Director of the Botanic Garden at 
Konigsberg, in Prussia. 


To ascertain in what degree the different times of the day 
promote the growth of plants, M. Meyer occasioned a scape 
of Amaryllis Belladonna, well known to grow very rapidly, 
to be measured thrice a day, — at six o’clock in the morning, 
twelve at noon, and six in the evening. ‘The thermometer was 
also observed, and the results are exhibited together in a table. 
_ This table shows that the plant grew in the day almost twice 

as much as during the night, which M. Meyer ascribes to the 
influence of light and warmth. He observes that the increase 
of the plant was proportional to the height of the temper- 
ature; but in what degree the light contributed to the growth 
could not well be ascertained. The entire deprivation of 
light would have lowered the temperature, and also injured 
the health of the plant, in which case the result of the ob- 
servation could not be depended upon. 


22. Some Observations on the Growth of Trees. 
By Professor Reum. 


After he has described his method of transplanting seed- 
lings, &c., he recommends hard-shelled seeds of trees to be 
put in pots of sand or mould during the winter, which pre- 

Vou. IX.—No.46 — aa 


594% Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 


pares them for germination when sown in the following 

spring. 

23. On O’xalis tetraphylla as an ornamental Plant, and as a Vege- 
table. By M. Witzel, Gardener. 

This plant is used for ornament, especially for edgings. It 
is also very good used as sorrel, and the bulbs are almost 
like potatoes in flavour; the leaves, when mixed with New 
Zealand spinach, give it a peculiar and _ pleasant acid flavour. 
The plant is very easily cultivated; it grows almost in any 
soil, and increases its bulbs abundantly. If planted in a 
frame in spring, it may be obtained earlier. 


24. Extract from the History of the Gardens at Worlitz. 
By M. Schoch, Gardener. 

The gardens at Worlitz are about six English miles in cir- 
cumference, on a plain which is variously subdivided by canals 
for pleasure-boats. The whole, however, is subdivided into 
five different parts. Around the castle it is chiefly laid out 
in the English style, and contains a great number of various 
North American trees and shrubs, which were among those 
first introduced in Germany. In the years 1770—1774 another 
part was laid out on one of the islands in the garden, where 
a considerable piece of rockwork is erected in the form of a 
grotto. This is surrounded by fig trees, which in winter are 
bent into the interior of this grotto for protection against 
frost. In the centre of this mass of stones is a cavity for an 
artificial volcano, which, when displayed, affords a beautiful 
spectacle by the reflection from the artificial lake and canals. 
There is also a nursery for the supply of the gardens. 


26. Account of Dreienbrunnen, near Erfurth. By Dr. Volker. 


This place has long been distinguished for the extensive cul- 
ture of vegetables. ‘The kitchen-gardens are variously crossed 
by trenches supplied with water by three large reservoirs, for 
the purpose of watering. ‘This is performed with a sort of 
shovel, with which the water is spread over the beds. On 
the sides of these trenches water cresses are grown abundantly. 
Fruit trees are not much cultivated in these gardens, as they 
are considered injurious to the growth of the water cress. 


27. On the Cultivation of Orange Trees. By M. Mertens, at 
Herrnhausen. 

He re-pots his trees every sixteen or twenty-four years. 
The soil consists of two parts cow-dung, two parts loam, 
three parts rotten horse-dung, and three parts of the old soil 
from the pots. They are occasionally watered, and fresh 


Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 595 


cow-dung is laid on the top of the soil every year as manure. 
The trees are pruned in September in preference to the 
pruning in spring, by which three or four weeks are lost in 
their growth. 


30. Gleditschia hérrida recommended for Enclosures. 


Young plants should be planted, one foot apart, in well- 
trenched soil. The first year they should be shortened to 
eight or twelve inches; in the second year to eighteen or 
twenty-four inches; and so on gradually to the height re- 
quired. ‘The lateral branches, if not required to fill up 
vacancies, are shortened to six inches. ‘The hedge should 
be kept clean, and occasionally watered when newly planted. 


31. Description of a flowering Zamia horrida at Cassel. 
By M. Schelhas. 
This plant flowered in the year 1827, and proved to be a 
male, the anthers of which are sessile on the under side of 
the scales. 


33. Report on grafting Pears on Sérbus aucuparia. By M. Floss. 

These trees grow on sandy soil, where pear trees do not 
prosper, which induced M. Floss to graft them with pears, 
in which he succeeded perfectly. He observed further, that 
one or two branches of the stock should be left, to hinder 
the graft from growing too rapidly, because in that case the 
graft grows much thicker than the stock, and is easily broken 
by the wind; but when branches of the stock are allowed to 
remain for two or three years, this does not happen. He also 
observed that the pears obtained from trees treated in this 
manner seem to keep longer, although they are not so well 
flavoured as when grafted on the wild pear stocks. 


39. Description of a Method of growing Alpine Plants, used in the 
Garden of Dr. Wild, at Cassel. 


. On a site of 8000 square feet he cultivates about 700 dif- 
ferent alpine and forest plants. In five of the beds a stratum 
of gravel is laid at the bottom, which is covered about 2 ft. in 
thickness with peat. The rockwork is also planted with alpine 
plants. ‘The clumps in some places are planted with various 
evergreen shrubs, and surrounded by an edging of Gentidna 
acatlis, Verdnica fruticuldsa, &c. ‘The uppermost clump is 
27 ft. higher than the lowest; and from that elevated situation 
the neighbouring country may be seen to great advantage. 
This communication is followed by a list of plants cultivated 


in the garden. 
: aq 2 


596 Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 


40. Meeting of the Society, July 27. 1828. 


Baron von Kottwitz recommends shortening the young 
shoots of seedling almonds in autumn, which, he thinks, stops 
the sap sooner, and thus renders them safer against the frosts ; 
they also begin to grow sooner in spring. He also mentions 
having raised almond trees from cuttings of the roots. 


41. Experiments made by M. Hartweg to ascertain which Sort of 
Wood is most fit for Stakes, in which he shows how long the differ- 
ent Sorts lasted. 

Class 1. Resinous woods, such as Pinus, &c., after being 
seven years in the ground were not at all rotten. 2. Robinza, 
&c., were about one sixth or one half rotten in that time. 
3. Ulmus, &c., were entirely rotten. 4. Acer, &c., rotten 
after five years. 5. Salix, &c., after four years. 6. Car- 
pinus, &c., after three years. 


42. Meeting of the Society, Sept.’7. 1828. 


M. Furstenau manures his cabbages, before they close their 
heads, with sheep-dung round the stems, which occasions 
them to grow very large and firm, and also to keep better. 

M. Ohlendorf, at Hamburgh, communicated to the Society 
his observations on sowing plum stones. When perfectly 
ripe, they are, without being divested of the flesh, sown in 
beds in the autumn. The same is practised with cherry stones, 
with which he succeeds equally well. M. Lenné observes 
that the principle of sowing stone fruit is, not to let the 
stones become dry, wherefore they should be either sown 
directly when gathered, or preserved in moist sand during 
the winter; and M. Otto adds, that he has observed that 
stones from fruit which are injured by maggots never ger- 
minate. 


45. On the Origin of Weeping Trees. By Mr. William Anderson, 
Curator of the Botanic Garden at Chelsea, near London. 

‘¢T have never seen a printed report on the manner in 
which the different varieties of trees have been discovered ; for 
example, the weeping ash. The cause of this neglect may be, 
that persons finding such varieties either do not examine their 
origin, or keep it secret, from personal interest. If, therefore, 
this subject be not better known in Germany than in England, 
the following observations may prove not uninteresting to your 
Society. Fascicles or bundles of shoots are often observed 
on trees, which resemble a bird’s nest at a distance; but, when 
examined, they prove to be a cluster of small twigs. Such 
bundles are observed on different trees, but more frequently 


Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 597 


on the white or common birch tree (Bétula alba Z.). In the 
year 1808 I observed such a bundle on a Crate gus (Més- 
pilus) Oxyacantha, and grafted young thorns with them, which, 
in two or three years, produced beautiful weeping branches. 
About the same time I observed such a bundle on U/Imus 
campéstris, eyes of which were budded on healthy young 
trees, and every one produced a long hanging shoot. Accord- 
ing to this observation, it would be very easy to procure a 
large collection of drooping or weeping trees. Our gardeners, 
however, multiply no species so numerously as the /raxinus 
excélsior var. péndula ; which variety often retains its hanging 
character when raised from seeds. We possess several such 
trees, of about 10 ft. in height, which were raised from seed of 
the original tree, obtained, in 1780, from a nurseryman, who 
found it a few years previous to that, in the neighbourhood of 
Newmarket, in Cambridgeshire.” 


47. Experiments made by M. Toussaint, Nurseryman at Berlin, to 
ascertain what Influence different Soils and Manures have on 
Annual Plants. 


M. Toussaint says a satisfactory result of this object could 
only be expected after experiments conducted through several 
years; but, as one summer (the given time to answer this 
prize question) is too short to answer this question with cer- 
tainty, he considers the following results only a proof that it 
would be worth while to carry these experiments to a greater 
extent. For his observations he chose melon plants (Bar- 
baresken, a sort of cantalupe), a variety which, by its size and 
abundance of juice, is most fitting to show minutely what 
influence different soils and manures have upon it; which, 
however, could only be correctly ascertained in the course of 
time, as it must be considered that the seeds were taken from 
fruit produced in a different soil from that in which the 
experiment was made. ‘The seeds were chosen as much as 
possible of equal weight and size. Fresh dung from pigs, 
cows, and horses, and loam, and decayed wood, were the in- 
gredients with which the experiments were carried on. ‘These 
were mixed with leaf mould in the following proportions: 
firstly, one third of leaf mould, and two thirds of one of those 
manures; secondly, one third of one of the above manures, 
and two thirds of leaf mould, which gave ten different mix- 
tures, in which the seeds were sown. ‘The temperature was 
also ascertained by a thermometer fixed in the middle of each 
frame. ‘Two fresh and two old seeds were sown at an equal 
depth in each light, from which two plants were afterwards 
removed into another frame, filled with common garden soil 

aa 3 


598 Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 


only. The progress and result of this experiment is minutely 
shown in a table, and here it is only necessary to mention that 
twenty plants from old seeds produced eight fruit more than 
twenty from fresh seeds, and that the fruit of those plants 
which had not been transplanted weighed, on an average, 
2 Ibs. 2 02.; while those from plants which were transplanted 
weighed 2 lbs. § oz. on an average. Finally, M. Toussaint 
wishes that such experiments may be carried on by others, 
and a garden appropriated to this purpose, to ascertain the 
best and most durable soil and manure for those plants. 
(Mr. Figgans’s communication, p. 567., on the results of 
growing the cucumber and the melon in heath mould, is 
congenial with the above experiments. ] 

The result of this experiment, respecting the flavour, was, 
that the best-flavoured fruit were produced in the mixture of 
two thirds leaf mould and one third horse-dung; the fruits 
produced in the other mixtures were less delicate, although 
superior in flavour to others produced in the common garden 
soil. The least-flavoured, which were sweet, but mealy, were 
those produced in the mixture of two thirds cow-dung and 
one third turf. 


49. Report upon the Experiments on the Impregnation of Plants. 
By Professor Henschel, at the University of Breslau. 


M. Henschel gives a detail of his observations on na- 
tural impregnation, and on the effect produced on the seed 
or fruit, when parts of the organs of plants are hindered from 
performing their functions. Secondly, he treats on artificial 
impregnation, and its results; thirdly, on the impregnation 
with pollen of other plants, not belonging to the same genus, 
&c. &c; fourthly, he details experiments with what he calls 
‘* modified impregnation,” or with pollen of the same, or from 
other plants, mixed with a substance of a different nature ; 
fifthly, he treats on impregnation with foreign substances, as 
carbon, &c. &c. These experiments are minutely described, 
and a view of their results given in tables. 


5. Meeting of the Society, Nov. 2. 1828. 


M. Langmatz gave an account of the advantage of worm- 
wood for producing potash. On a place of about a square 
rod he obtained 108 lbs. of herbage, which after it was burnt 
gave 11 lbs. of ashes, and from this he extracted 54 1bs. of 
rough potash; while from 100 lbs. of birchwood he only 
procured 44 lbs. of ashes, and 1000 lbs. of this ashes only 
make 219 lbs. of potash. This experiment shows how advan- 


Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 599 


tageous it is to grow wormwood for making potash ; the more 
especially as it grows fast, and on any soil. 


54. Account of a Black Carnation. 


Extract from a letter of the Society for Fruit-culture, at 
Gruben. “ M. Ulrici raised a perfectly black carnation 
from seed, which he called the Mohren K@nig (Negro King). 
He had a very large collection of carnations; but, since it 
-has been dispersed, this black variety has been apparently 
lost. The Society wishes therefore to know if it does not exist 
somewhere, as M, Ulrici was very liberal in distributing 
whatever rare varieties he possessed.” 


58. On an Insect (Tenthredo erythrocéphala) which is very injurious 
to the Species of the Genus Pinus, and particularly to Pinus 
Strobus ; with a Figure of the Insect. 


59. M, Bosse succeeded in preserving a bulb of Amarfllis 
revoluta, which was much rotted, by cutting off the wasted 
part, without injuring the roots; on the wound he put pow- 
dered charcoal, and kept the plant in a dry stove, until the 
injured parts became dry, when he covered it with wax, 
leaving an opening in the centre for the leaves to grow 
through. After being repotted it was put in a warm frame, 
where it soon began to grow, and attained its former size. 


60. On the Impregnation of the Species of Passion Flower. 
By M. Bosse. 

He approves of impregnating with the pollen of different 
species or varieties; in this case they produce fruit more 
freely than when impregnated with their own pollen; he has 
also, by this cross impregnation, originated several varieties. 


61. Observations on the Character of the Regular and Natural 
Styles of laying out Gardens, and their Application. By M. Sckell, 
Inspector of the Royal Gardens in Bavaria. 

The different styles in which gardens are laid out may be 
distinguished by the two appellations, the regular and the 
natural. The first, and oldest, is also called the French 
style, from its having been so much in use in that country, 
and also for the great perfection to which it was brought 
during the time of Louis XIV. and the great genius Le 
Notre, wherefore all gardens laid out similar to those of 
Versailles, St. Cloud, Marly, St. Germain, Meudon, Sceaux, 
Chantilly, the Tuilleries, and the Luxembourg, are called 
French. 

Another kind of regular style, a subdivision of the former, 
is the Italian garden, which, although regular, differs greatly 

aq 4 


600 Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 


from the French. Italian gardens are much in combination 
with architecture and sculpture, and are, it seems, more de- 
signed to increase the beauty of these, than to form a work of 
art in themselves; which is quite the reverse of the French 
gardens, where architecture and sculpture are only used for 
embellishing the garden. 

A third subdivision of the regular style is the Dutch 
garden. Hedges and trees are cut into different forms, the 
grass plots are divided into curious figures, and the walks 
are laid out, or rather paved, with variously coloured stones, 
glass, shells, &c., which gives the whole more the appearance 
of mosaic work than a garden. ‘This plan has, however, long 
ceased to be adopted. ‘There are also two different classes 
in the natural style, the Chinese and the English: the idea 
of the latter has probably arisen from that of the former, as 
they only differ in the Chinese introducing wild and terrific 
scenes in their gardens, while by the English only the beau- 
tiful and charming are admitted. The love for this natural 
style has spread very rapidly on the Continent, and many 
well-formed French gardens have been transformed into En- 
glish ones, without considering how far regular forms were 
necessary for that effect, which, in combination with magni- 
ficent architecture, these gardens were originally intended to 
produce. All writers on the art of gardening agree that the 
regular style is in certain cases not only applicable, but essen- 
tial; and this circumstance induced M. Sckell to give his 
opinion on the question, ‘ Under what circumstances can or 
should the regular style be used ?” 

He first refers to Hirschfeld’s Theory of the Art of Gar- 
dening, p.139., who, speaking of the application of the 
English style, says, ‘There are, however, cases in which 
symmetric gardens make an exception, as gardens round the 
houses in towns and suburbs, near palaces, in public places 
and promenades,” &c. &c. 

The regular form of a sublime building, which has in all 
its parts the character of grandeur, is so much in contrast 
with natural scenery, that these two objects cannot be com- 
bined without a medium. With a few modifications, and for 
the same reason, the regular style should be chosen for 
promenades near towns (which are to be distinguished from 
public gardens), in consequence of the regularity of the 
situation, and for the convenience of the public. A third 
case, where, though regular gardens are not always neces- 
sary, they are mostly applicable, is, in front and behind houses 
in towns and suburbs, where the place is generally too limited 
for natural scenery. Whether there are other cases except 


Forbes’s Hortus Woburnensis. 601 


those above mentioned, where the regular style could be used 
with advantage, M. Sckell does not venture to decide; but a 
refined taste, when every circumstance is considered, will 
easily determine. 


(To be continued.) 


Art. II. Hortus Woburnensis ; a descriptive Catalogue of upwards 
of Six Thousand Species of ornamental Plants cultivated in the 
Gardens at Woburn Abbey; with numerous illustrative Plans for 
the Erection of Houses for Forcing, Green-houses, §c., and an 
Account of the Management of them throughout the Year. By 
James Forbes, A.L.S. C.M.H.S. &c., Gardener to his Grace the 
Duke of Bedford, K.G.. 8vo, 440 pages; twenty-six litho- 
graphed prints. London, 1833. Medium paper, 16s.; royal 
paper, with proof prints, 1/. 10s.; royal paper, with proof 
prints coloured, 2/. 2s. 


“Tue first part of the work contains a descriptive cata- 
logue, in abbreviated terms, of the generic and specific cha- 
racters of upwards of 6000 plants, such as are best adapted 
for the green-house, plant stove, or decoration of the pleasure- 
ground, or such as appear the most interesting to the botanist 
and amateur in the British flower-garden; the descriptions of 
which, although much compressed by being confined within 
a small compass, will render considerable assistance in the 
identifying of the numerous genera and species. ‘These dis- 
tinguishing peculiarities will, it is hoped, characterise the 
arrangement of the plants in this work from those of any 
other catalogue. ‘The accompanying Glossary will elucidate 
the various abbreviations in the catalogue part of the work. 

‘* The second part comprises the plans of the parterres, 
pleasure-grounds, green-houses, plant stoves, heathery, and 
other erections, with a description of the different subjects 
enumerated, the soil, and the general management best adapted 
for the growth of the Cape, Botany Bay, and other exotic 
plants. 

“‘ The third part is confined to the plans and details re- 
lative to the kitchen-garden department, with lists of the 
fruits cultivated; and comprises numerous designs for the 
erection of forcing-houses, culinary pits, &c., with an account 
of the materials best adapted for their erection, and mode of 
heating by hot-water pipes, &c.; and lastly, the general 
routine of culture pursued throughout the year in the forcing 
department.” 

This indication of the scope and office of the book is 


602 Forbes’s Hortus Woburnensis. 


copied, letter for letter, from Mr. Forbes’s “ preface.” ‘The 
catalogue of plants is arranged according to the system of 
Linnzus. We copy two or three instances, as specimens, 
of the descriptive particulars attached to the genera and 
species : — 


Systematic English Form of Col. of Month Native Yr.of — Soiland 
Name. Name. Leaves, &c. Flow. of Fl. Country. Introd. Propagation. 
(Seeds 4. 


SA’LVIA, SAGE or CLARY. Cal. tub. with 2uneq. lips. Cor.rin. Ger. 4-cleft. Sty. cur. Stig. clov. 
falgens. B.’R. Cardinal. rug.cord.ov.cren. hairy. sc. 1.12, Mexico. 1827. G. S. 


(naked. 
ROSMARINUS, ROSEMARY. Cal. 2-lipped. Cor. ringent, helmet bifid. Stam. curved. Sceds 


officinalis. R.s. common. lin. sess. whit. ben. pa.dl. 1.4.8. Europ. 1548. H.® cuttings. 


each. 
IPOM\EA, IPOM ZA. Cal.5-part.nak. Cor.campan.5-plicate. Caps. 2-3-celled, with Dee in 


insignis. A.R, magnificent. palm. 5-lob. up.ov.or. cord. p. 6,8, E. Ind. 1814. S.®. cl. cuttings. 


[2-3-cells, with 1-2 seeds in each. 
CONVO'LVULUS, BIND-WEED. Cal. 5-cleft. Cor. bell-shaped, plaited. Stig.2. Caps. of 


arvénsis. Br. Fl. small. sagitt. acut. Pedun.1-f. vos. 6.9. Britain..... H.J). cl. Sandy loam. 

These specimens are copied from the original; and we 
have chosen them, because their subjects are doubtless known 
to most or all of our readers. Some of the words in the last 
column, the width of our page did not allow room for. 

Now follows the subject of the second part of the book, 
namely, “the pleasure-ground,” and the various objects of 
interest which the pleasure-ground includes. As several of 
these are illustrated by engravings, we will collect the titles 
of the engravings first, and then we shall be sure not to omit 
to mention them, which would not be just to a work whose 
illustrations must have cost by far the greater part of the 
expense of producing it. Plates or prints: — 1. South-west 
view of Woburn Abbey; a lithograph by Ross. ‘This is the 
frontispiece to the volume. 2. A titlepage, engraved by 
Weddell, in which the park gate and the entrance to the 
park are introduced as a vignette. 3. A general plan of the 
pleasure-ground. 4. Her Grace’s flower-garden, in front of 
the private apartments; parterres in front of the libraries. 
5. Parterres in front of the sculpture gallery. 6. Ground 
plan, front elevation, and section of the green-house. 7. 
Ground plan and section of the plant stove; ground plan 
and section of a pinery heated by one boiler. 8. Plan, ele- 
vation, and section of the heath house. 9. Plan of the par- 
terre for hardy heaths. 10. The menagerie. 11. Outer en- 
trance to the menagerie; inner entrance to the menagerie. 
12. Children’s gardens. 13. Drakeloc pond, the Chinese 
temple, and evergreens. 14. Henry VII.’s cottage, at the 
extremity of Aspley Wood. 15. Labyrinths at Aspley Wood. 
These are the objects of which illustrations are given; and 
they are of course the subjects of particular description in 
the annexed letter-press, in which, besides these, the follow- 


Forbes’s Hortus Woburnensis. 603 


ing objects connected with the pleasure-ground are also more 
or less noticed: —covered walk, 1342ft. long; sculpture 
gallery, green-house, house for camellias, green-house for 
pelargoniums, riding-house, tennis court, stable courts, Chi- 
nese dairy, larders, rockwork, willow garden, American bank, 
garden for hardy heaths, site for Cape heaths when out of 
doors, collection of hollies, rosarium Britannicum, grass gar- 
den, menagerie, wired compartments of menagerie, keeper’s 
apartments ; canary &c., room; alders and birches, poplars, 
species of ash trees, elms, temple and platanuses, American 
oaks, arbour, different species of the genus Pinus, porter’s 
lodge. Besides these subjects, the following, still in the 
department of the pleasure-ground, are treated of in distinct 
chapters, as, indeed, are some of the subjects already men- 
tioned : — Construction of the green-house, 2 pages; Manage- 
ment of the green-house and conservatory, 11 pages; Con- 
struction of the plant stove, 3 pages; Management of 
hot-house plants, 7 pages; Management and propagation of 
the Cape heaths, 11 pages; The evergreens, 3 pages. 
64 pages, in all, are devoted to the description of the pleasure- 
ground, and the objects in it. 

In the third part of the book, which treats of the kitchen- 
garden, there are illustrations of these subjects: they are 
numbered in sequence to those of the pleasure-ground. 16. 
General plan of the kitchen-garden. 17. Ground plan of 
the hot-houses, back sheds, &c.; front elevation of the hot- 
houses, &c.; view of the garden entrance; view of the gar- 
dener’s house; south-east view of the gardener’s house. 
18. A diagram exhibitive of the details of the structure of 
the rafters, bars, sashes, and glazing employed in the glass 
structures for cultivating plants. 19. End elevation of the 
fig or citron house and back shed; section of the fig or 
citron house, end elevation of the vinery or peach-house ; 
section of the peach-house; section of the vinery. 20. Ground 
plan, seetion, and end and front elevations of the pinery. 
21. Ground plan, elevation, and section of the pine pit. 
22. The same of succession pine pits. 23. The same of the 
early forcing pit. 24. The same of the later forcing pits. 
25. The same of the house for the culture of the mushroom. 
26. Plan of hot wall and back shed. The subjects of these 
engravings are, of course, the subjects of the descriptive letter- 
press appended to them, of which there are 141 pages. Be- 
sides, however, the subjects which the above titles bespeak, 
the following are treated on: — Materials best adapted for 
hot-house roofs; comparative cost. On heating hot-houses, 
&c., with hot water ; on the formation of peach-house borders ; 


604 Forbes’s Hortus Woburnensis. 


on planting the peach-house; pruning, &c., of the peach 
tree; forcing the peach tree. ‘The same considerations 
relative to the management of the vine; culture, propagation, 
and management of the fig tree; of pine-apple plants, melons, 
and cucumbers. On forcing the cherry, strawberry, rhubarb, 
the potato, asparagus, and the sea-kale. 

These transcripts of titles, &c., will fully indicate the scope 
and contents of the book; and it remains only for us to give 
our opinion on its merits both in respect to design and exe- 
cution. We regret to say that we do not approve of either, 
and we shall give cur reasons for this judgment. 

The work consists of three parts; the catalogue, the de- 
scription of the plates, and the treatises on culture. The 
catalogue (which Mr. Forbes appears to set most value on, 
and which occupies more than half the volume) is in the 
manner of Galpine’s Compendium, with this difference, that, in 
the latter work, the generic characters are all placed toge- 
ther, whereas, in that of Mr. Forbes, they are distributed 
among the characters of the species. Now, whatever may be 
the merits of this plan, we cannot conceive the utility of 
applying it to a local catalogue. As a general catalogue, the 
Hortus Woburnensis can have no pretensions. Or, supposing 
the plan of this catalogue a desirable one, why should the 
purchaser of it be obliged to pay for, and carry along with it, 
in the same volume, upwards of 200 pages of descriptive or 
didactic letterpress, accompanied by numerous folding plates : ? 

A catalogue is a volume which the gardener is supposed to 
have in continual use, and therefore it should never be 
encumbered with extraneous matters. All that we could wish 
to say as to the execution of this catalogue may be inferred 
by any tyro in botany, by comparing the generic and spe- 
cific characters in the eight lines quoted from it (p. 602.). 
If this be not satisfactory, we shall explain what we allude 
to, in detail, in a future Number. 

To the descriptive part of the work we shall offer no 
objections, except that we do not see any advantage in 
having the plates larger than the size of an octavo page; 
while there is this sremifese objection to a larger size, that it 
increases the bulk and price of the work. 

With respect to the treatises, we have perused: them ah 
attention, and confess that we cannot see the propriety of 
connecting them either with the catalogue of plants, or the 
description of the plans. If the modes of culture at Woburn, 
and their results, had been minutely and accurately given ; 
for example, if it had been stated when each house in each 
year was begun to be forced, what heat was kept up at dif- 


Forbes’s Hortus Woburnensis. 605 


ferent periods, when the articles were fit for use, what was 
the quantity produced, and the cost of fuel, labour, &c., &c., 
we should have had valuable statistical information. Instead 
of this, however, we have merely a general treatise on each 
patticular article cultivated ; and, to show that these treatises 
are of the most common-place kind, we shall quote that on 
sea-kale, because it is one of the shortest in the book; and 
the reader may judge for himself; by comparing it with the 
same subject as treated of in any gardening book which he 
may happen to have by him. 


“ SEA-KALE. 


“ This is reckoned one of the most valuable esculent vegetables that is 
indigenous to Britain that we have got, and, when accelerated by artificial 
heat, it is considered by many to be equal, or but little imferior, to the 
asparagus. The shoots of the sea-kale, when blanched, are extremel y 
useful in culinary dishes during the winter- months, and are, at that period 
of the year, a luxury at table. 

“‘ Various methods have, in consequence, been resorted to for bringing 
it to perfection at an early season, when there is a scarcity of other vege- 
tables. But the more general and equally successful mode adapted for its 
cultivation is, by covering the beds or ridges, on which the sea-kale is 
growing in the natural ground, with hot stable dung, or a mixture of dung 
and tree leaves. The beds selected for this purpose should consist of 
strong crowns, whose roots have got well established in the ground. Those 
crowns that were planted the preceding spring, if well supplied with water 
in dry weather, while striking root, will be fit for accelerating the ensuing 
winter. > 

“The decayed leaves and stems of the plants should be all cleared 
away, and the surface of the beds stirred up and cleared from weeds and 
filth ; and then a covering of old tan, leaf mould, or coal ashes spread over 
them : then, over each crown, place a large flower-pot, or such pots as are 
generally made purposely for the blanching of the sea-kale. The holes in 
the pots must be all stopped, in order that the steam arising from the fer- 
menting substances may not get in to injure the tender shoots when they 
are in a growing state. As soon as the plants are covered with the pots, a 
layer of the fermenting materials should be spread over all the bed, to the 
depth of from 15 to 20 inches; which thickness should be regulated accord- 
ing to the state of the weather, but observing not to make the bed too 
strong, in case of injuring the crop, or drawing up the shoots in a weak 
state. If a temperature around the plants of from 55 to 60 degrees can 
be kept, it will be quite sufficient for bringing this vegetable to perfection 
in the course of about three weeks after the beds are made up, and which 
may be had at the table in December, and its season prolonged until they 
appear in the open ground; and if covered with coal ashes or turf mould, 
it will considerably tend to blanch the shoots, and accelerate their growth.” 


(p. 439.) 

- Here we have not a word of the manner of cultivation 
practised at Woburn; and, indeed, for anything that appears 
in Mr. Forbes’s volume, there may be no sea-kale grown 
there at all. ‘The same will apply to the other treatises in 
this part of the work, such as those on asparagus, rhubarb, 
potatoes, kidneybeans, cherries, &c. 


606 Payne's Apiarian’s Guide. 


On the whole, we are reluctantly compelled to state, that 
we consider Mr. Forbes’s work as a very unfortunate attempt 
at book-making. Had he confined himself to a simple list of 
the scientific names of the plants, this might have been got 
into a dozen pages; fifty pages would have included the 
whole of the descriptive matter, and also all the engravings ; 
and the treatises, or didactic part of the work, would, on all 
accounts, have been better dispensed with. We should then 
have had a useful guide to Woburn Abbey, which might 
have been sold for 5s., instead of the present large and 
high-priced book. 

Having great respect for Mr. Forbes both as a man and a 
practical gardener, we can assure our readers that it has 
given us great pain to make these remarks upon his work. 
We are determined, however, that no considerations of pri- 
vate friendship shall prevent us from doing what we conceive 
to be our duty to the public. 


Art. III. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, 
Rural Architecture, &c., lately published, with some Account 
of those considered the most interesting. 


PAYNE, J. H., Author of the ‘* Cottager’s Guide for the Ma- 
nagement of his Bees: ” ‘The Apiarian’s Guide, containing 
-practical Directions for the Management of Bees upon the 
Depriving System. 8vo, 80 pages, 2 copperplates. Lon- 
don, Simpkin and Marshall, 1833. . 


The following is a copy of the first paragraph of the 
author’s preface: — ** Having written the Cottager’s Guide 
for the Management of his Bees upon the depriving system, 
which has been printed under the direction of the Suffolk and 
Norfolk Apiarian Society, for gratuitous distribution among 
the cottagers, I am induced, at the particular request of seve- 
ral apiarian friends, to enlarge the above little work; and to 
give, in addition, a description of Nutt’s newly invented hive, 
and other practical remarks in bee knowledge, resulting from 
nearly forty years’ close observation.” The results are digested 
into 17 chapters, whose titles are: —‘ 1. Situation of an 
apiary, and directions for placing the hives; 2. Directions 
for purchasing bees; 3. Materials of which hives should be 
made, and the improved cottage hive described; 4. Method 
of placing the small hive, box, or glass upon the improved 
cottage hive, by which means fine honey may be obtained 
without destroying the bees; 5. Proper time for taking away 


Murray's Manual of Experiments. 607 


the box, and how to expel the bees from it; 6. Method to be 
pursued in case a swarm should leave the hives after having 
commenced working in the box ; 7. Method of uniting second 
and third swarms; 8. igen of uniting swarms oan old 
stocks in autumn; 9. Manner of feeding weak stocks, and 
the time most appropriate for this operation ; ; 10. Food 
proper for weak hives; 11. Enemies of bees, and means of 
overcoming them; 12. Directions for hiving swarms; 13. 
Description of the knife for cutting out the combs; 14. Reme- 
dies, proposed as cures, for the stings of bees; 15. Means of 
preventing the bees from being stolen, especially in the coun- 
try; 16. Method of dislodging bees from trees or buildings, 
and putting them into hives; 17. Description and a figure of 
Nutt’s newly invented hive for obtaining the honey without 
destroying the bees. The plates exhibit hives and boxes of 
different forms, &c. 


Murray, John, ¥.S.A. F.L.S. G.S. &c. &c.: A Manual of 
Experiments, systematically arranged, illustrative of Che- 
mical Science. 3d edition. 12mo, 149 pages; with figures 
of twenty instruments for experiments. London, 1833. 5s. 


Some of our correspondents have recently urged the neces- 
sity of founding our knowledge of the processes of Nature 
on an acquaintance with chemistry. It may be, that this 
little volume may avail those who, under a conviction of the 
truth of this statement, are endeavouring to attain a know- 
ledge of this science. We copy the list of the book’s 
contents, that they may judge: —“ Remarks on the new 
nomenclature; theory of definite proportions; definition of 
gases, and sasinad of preparing them; experiments, SyS- 
tematically arranged, illustrative of chemical science.” ‘These 
experiments occupy sixty-four pages. ‘ ‘Tests for the detec- 
tion of metallic poisons; mineral waters and their contents ; 
nomenclature: vocabulary of technical terms; tests, or re- 
agents required in chemical analysis; chemical apparatus 
requisite; descriptive list of some particular apparatus.” 
The author thus speaks of his own work: — “ It is presumed 
that the following pages may encourage the growth of che- 
mical knowledge in the tyro of its science. Experiment i is an 
- inviting field, and chemistry is a science of experiment. The 
time is now past for speculation and hypothesis either to 
claim or receive attention..... This manual has been written 
with a view to invite the student of nature to a very lovely, 
interesting, and useful branch of knowledge, by softening 
down the asperities and difficulties of chemical research 3 
and it is hoped the end in view may be accomplished.” 


608 Lindley’s Nixus Plantarum. 


Johanne Lindley, Phil. Doct., Professore Londinensi, Auc- 
tore: Nixus Plantarum. (Approximations of Plants). 


MDCCCXXXIII. Londini, apud Ridgway et Filios. 


8vo, paginz XXIv. 


Those of the students of the natural affinities of plants who 
are familiar with Latin, will find this work one of high in- 
terest and real value to them. As premonitory to its scope 
and office we present the following extract from the same 
author’s Introduction to the Natural System of Botany, 
pe Vile 

‘¢ As plants resemble each other more or less in a multitude 
of different respects, it is impossible to indicate all their affi- 
nities in a lineal arrangement. ‘The consequence of this is that 
while the orders themselves are really natural, the same title 
often cannot be applied to the arrangement of them in masses. 
For example, Cupuliferse and Betulineze are obviously con- 
nected by the most intimate relationship, and, as collections 
of species, each of them is perfectly natural; yet one of them 
stands among apetalous plants, the other among achlamydeous 
ones; hence the two latter groups are artificial. In fact, it 
appears from what we at present know, that no large combin- 
ations of orders are natural which are not founded upon ana- 
tomical differences; thus Cellulares and Vasculares, Exégenz 
and Endogenze, Gymnospermous and Angiospermous Dicoty- 
ledons, are natural divisions; but Apétale, Polypétale, 
Achlamydeee, and all their subordinate sections, are entirely 
artificial.” 

‘‘ Characters which are purely physiological, that is to say, 
which depend upon differences of internal structure, are of 
much more value than varieties of form, position, number, 
and the like, which are mere modifications of external organs.” 

In the present Nzxus Plantarum the author illustrates 
more fully the ideas committed to notice in the above quo- 
tations ; and instances several incongruities which have been 
introduced into published systems of natural affinities by too 
great a dependence on characters not physiological, especially 
those derived from the hypogynous, perigynous, and epi- 
gynous position of the stamens. ‘The author conceives that, 
by the application of the physiological characters, with the 
subordinate aid of the analogies which may occur in the con- 
tingent ones, the orders may be hereafter profitably and 
satisfactorily distributed into sections ; an event which would 
facilitate the acquisition of a knowledge of plants when 
studied by their natural affinities. 

The exhibition of these tendencies or bearings in the 
received orders or groups of plants is the business of the 


Castle’s Systematic Synopsis of Medical Botany. 609 


book, where the orders are gathered together into a system 
of circles of affinity. The circles are not severally composed 
of an unvarying number of orders, but the author has found 
that in the associations which are most natural the number 
five is most usual; and hence is attained an approximation in 
botany to the quinary circular arrangement of the celebrated 
Mac Leay in other departments of nature. The distinguished 
botanist, Fries, had previously shown that a series of circles, 
more or less definite, will very well represent the relative 
affinities of plants; and Dr. Lindley, in this his Nzxus Plant- 
arum, has made practical application of a corresponding idea. 
The work must be forthwith examined by every one anxious 
to attain proficiency in botany. 


Castle, Thomas, ¥.L.S. (of Trinity College, Cambridge, 
. M.R.C.S. &e.): A Synopsis of Systematic Botany, as con- 
nected with the Plants admitted into the Pharmacopeeias of 
London, Edinburgh, and Dublin; accompanied by a Plani- 
sphere, showing at one view the class and order of the 
medical genera, according to Linneeus and Jussieu. 4to, 
17 pages.’ London, 1833. 4s. 6d. 


In the preface the author states that “the intention of this 
synopsis is to represent, in a concise and plain form, the pre- 
sent state of systematic botany, as connected with certain 
medical plants, namely, those only which are acknowledged 
by the Pharmacopaias of London, Edinburgh, and Dublin. 
With a view to the above, I have drawn up an outline and 
partial description of the three received systems: the Linnzean 
artificial, the Linnzean natural, and the natural system of 
Jussieu. In the first is given an explanation of each class, 
&c.; the number of plants belonging to every order; their 
time of flowering pointed out by figured references to the 
month; their native soil; their duration, as being annuals, 
biennials, perennials, shrubs, or trees; and, lastly, in foot- 
notes, the different names by which they are called in various 
authors. As the characteristics aré given in the third part, 
I have only explained the general meaning of the Linneean 
natural orders.” The planisphere is a most elaborate pro- 
duction ; it is constructed on the principle of a geographical 
clock: the central revolving sphere bears two circles; the 
inner one the Linnzean classes, the marginal one the orders; 
and around its orbit are three fixed concentric circles; the 
first containing illustrative genera, the next the names of 
Linnzeus’s natural orders, the outermost one the names of 
those of Jussieu. . 

Voi. TX. — No. 46. RR 


610 Lance's Cottage farmer. 


Lance, Edward Jarman, Agriculturist and Land Surveyor, 
Lewisham, Kent, Author of the ‘* Golden Farmer,” and 
several parts of “ Baxter’s Library of Agricultural and 
Horticultural Knowledge: ” The Cottage Farmer ; contain- 
ing plain Instructions for the Management and Cultivation 
of Land divided into suitable Allotments, so as to be 
made beneficial alike to the Labourer and the Landlord. 
Pamphlet, 8vo, 30 pages, 2 plates. London, Dean and 
Munday, and Ridgway, 1833. Intended for distribution 
amongst the labourers who have field-gardens, or small 
plots of farming ground; and dedicated to the Agricul- 
tural Employment Institution. 


A most cheap shilling’s worth. The principles advocated 
in, and argued on facts contained in, the work are, that an 
increased application of the knowledge of the sciences which 
acquaint us with the processes of nature, and with the struc- 
ture and physiology of natural bodies, added to an increased 
application of manual labour, will, in farming and gardening 
especially, enable us to excite the resources of nature to such 
an increase in the production as will well repay the increased 
outlay of attention. The author dwells much on manures; 
and the greater fitness of this or that kind, accerding to the 
soil to which it is to be applied: he enumerates several avail- 
able kinds of manure, and urges the scrupulous accumulation 
and determinate application of every atom of manure of every 
kind. We think that the kinds of plants which he recom- 
mends to the cottage farmer’s attentive and diligent cultivation 
are those best worth his attention; and that the author’s hints 
to him for the fullest appropriation of the crops, and of all his 
means, when produced, are worthy regard and observance. 
‘“‘ Part il.,” or chapter ii., has this title: — ‘ Hints for the 
farmer who wishes to be independent, and to satisfy all the 
wants of a family from off the land he cultivates; showing, 
also, how little land is wanted for that purpose.” The title of 
“ part” or chapter iii. is: — “ Hints on the employment of 
the poor, and the want of a better knowledge of nature’s 
laws; or theory of agriculture: in accordance with the prin- 
ciples of Lord Kames;” whose writings are so much regarded 
by Mr. Lance, that he has prefixed an exquisite lithograph of 
that author to (and it is worth the price of) his pamphlet, in 
grateful acknowledgment, as Mr. Lance states, of ‘* having 
had his mind directed into an enquiry on the constituency of 
earths, and of vegetable food, from reading the works of this 
truly great man.” In the second plate, which seems to be 
one used in Mr. Lance’s Golden Farmer, there are figured 
the ‘ female bloom of the hop,” ‘ male bloom of the hop ;” 


Luterary Notices. 611 


“ hydatid, or fluke-or flounder, generated in the liver of 
sheep,” three figures ; and the “ Haltica némorum, or jumper 
of the woods, or turnip fly,” of which there are three figures. 


Art. III. Literary Notices. 


Lapies’ Botany, a popular Introduction to the Natural 
System of Botany, after the model of Rousseau’s Letters on 
Botany, by Dr. Lindley, is advertised “ to be published in 
November next, in one volume, 8vo, illustrated by numerous 
plates.” 

The third part, comprising the Vande, of the letterpress 
of Dr. Lindley’s Genera and Species of Orchideous Plants, is 
announced as being ready; also part the second of litho- 
graphic illustrations, from the sketches of Francis Bauer, Esq. 
F.R.S. L.S. &c., of Dr. Lindley’s Genera and Species of Or- 
chideous Plants, containing ten drawings on stone. This work 
is to be completed in four parts, in imperial quarto, price [we 
presume, each part] 30s. coloured, and 15s. plain.” 

Labiatarum Genera et Species, or a description of the genera 
and species of the plants. of the order Labiatee; with their 
general history, character, affinities, and geographical distri- 
bution; by George Bentham, Esq. F.L.S. Parts ii. and ili. 
price 5s. each, are in a state of forwardness. 

Of Sowerby’s Small Edztion of the English Botany, contain- 
ing figures and descriptions of the plants of Great Britain, 
arranged according to the Linnaean method, a number is 
now published “ every alternate Saturday.” (See Vol. VIII. 
p- 714. for an exhibition ef the plan of the work.) ‘Twenty- 
seven numbers, at 1s. each, are now published. 

Of Baxter’s British Flowering Plants, containmg a figure 
and a description of one species in every genus of British 
flowering plants, fourteen numbers are published. (See 
Vol. VIII. p. 715. for the details of the plan of the work.) 
A second edition of the letterpress of the earlier numbers is 
begun: the descriptions are much improved and augmented. 

The first number, price 2s. 6d., of The Bordered Edition of 
Maund’s Botanic Garden, was published in August last. The 
four subjects which occupy one plate in the usual edition are 
here separated; and each subject is surrounded by an orna- 
mental border, in the ornaments of which the rose, the sham- 
rock, and the thistle occur; and, with its border, occupies a 
Ato page. ‘The whole work is to be republished in this form. 

Of the Irish Gardener's and Farmer’s Magazine, the first 

RR 2 


612 Literary Notices. 


number, price 1s., is to be published on the Ist of October, 
1833; and the work is to be continued on the first of every 
month. It is to be conducted by E. Murphy, A.B., Member 
of the Geological Society of Dublin, and late acting ‘Secretary 
to the Horticultural and Arboricultural Societies of Ireland, 
&c. &e.; assisted by scientific and practical persons. 

The third volume of Prince’s Pomological Manual is in a 
state of great forwardness. — M. Saul. 

The Tropical Agriculturist, a practical treatise on the cul- 
tivation and management of various productions suited to 
tropical climates, by George Richardson Porter, has been 
recently published. It is reported on as a work of real value 
to possessors of property in the East and West Indies, to 
planters, colonists, settlers, and others interested in the pro- 
ducts of tropical climates. ‘The work is in one volume 8vo, 
and is illustrated by 45 botanical plates: its price a guinea. 

Dried Specimens of Marine Plants, principally collected on 
the coast of Devonshire, carefully named according to Dr. 
Hooker’s British Flora, are prepared by Mrs. Wyatt of Tor- 
quay, and sold by her in volumes, each including specimens 
of 50 species. The first volume is ready, and the second is 
to be so soon after Michaelmas: the volumes are entitled 
Algae Damnonienses. 

Mr. Donald, of the Goldworth Nursery, near Ripley, Surrey, 
has just issued a sale catalogue of the contents of his rich 
arboretum, and of ‘a select collection of hardy perennial 
herbaceous plants.” ‘The catalogue occupies three pages ofa 
large sheet, to be sent by post, and includes, owing to the 
minute type employed, a surprising store of species and va- 
rieties, especially of trees and shrubs. We have never seen 
so accurate a catalogue as this. 

A Catalogue of Flower Roots, Plants, §c., grown, in 1833, 
by the Rev. J. Tyso and Son, Wallingford, Berks, has been 
sent us. It is well arranged and richly furnished. We called 
on Mr. Tyso, when passing through Wallingford, some weeks 
ago, and find that he intends, in a short time, to give up his 
pursuits as a commercial florist to his son, and to confine 
himself in future to amateurship and his clerical duties. 

A Selection from the general Catalogue of Hardy Ornamental 
Trees, Shrubs, and Herbaceous Plants, has been just published 
by Messrs. Buchanan and Co., of Camberwell. ‘* As an as- 
sistance to those who may wish to form a small but select col- 
lection, the most desirable and distinct species of each genus 
are marked with a *, and those possessing superior individual 
excellence with a +. The prices appended are for good plants 
that will make an immediate display.” 


613 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. I. Domestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


THE Antheum at Brighton. —We noticed the project of this building in 
our last (p. 464.), and ‘expected to have the pleasure of seeing it advancing 
towards compietion, when visiting Brighton as a part of our tour. Before 
our arrival there, however (which was on the 12th of September), it had 
fallen down, from its defective construction; and we only saw its remains 
from the outside of the square enclosure which surrounds it. Mr. Busby, 
architect and engineer (the inventor of the mode of heating by hot water, 
described p. 38. y who resides near the spot, a most ingenious and intel- 
ligent man, gave us the following account, which he first published, with 
some slight variations, in the Br jghton Herald : — 

“The antheum consisted of a dome, with twenty cast-iron ribs, forming 
ten elliptical arches, nearly 170 ft. in span: the lower parts of these ribs, 
for about 12 ft. high, were completely enclosed in substantial brick piers, 
with a strong circular wall extending between all, except three spaces, 
which were left to communicate with the principal entrance. The ribs 
were placed edgewise, and were about 3 ft. wide at the bottom, and 2 ft. at 
top, with an average thickness of about 2 in.; being, in fact, thinner in the 
ceutre, but considerably thicker at the edges, which were ornamented and 
strengthened by rounded mouldings. Each rib was cast in six or seven 
pieces, and the junctions were effected by strong flanches and screw-bolts ; 
there were also smaller subsidiary ribs between the principals, but reaching 
only about one third of their height. The ribs were connected with each 
other by light cast-iron purlins, extending from one to another, so as to 
form a series of concentric rings at various elevations. The centre of the 
dome consisted of a strong circular casting, 7 ft.in diameter, against which 
all the ribs abutted, and to which they were all firmly attached by screw- 
bolts. The height of the dome, measured within from the base of the 
ribs, was about 60 ft.; and the internal diameter of the circular wall, 
164 ft.: this constituted the whole of what is technically called the fram- 
ing. There were also numerous wrought-iron ribs, about the ordinary size 
of a ereen-house sash-bar, filling up the intervals between the main and 
subsidiary ribs; but these were merely intended to receive the glazing, and 
contributed little or nothing towards the support of the principals. 

“ An iron erection of the colossal dimensions of the antheum was found 
more difficult to fix than had been previously expected; and it became 
necessary to call in the aid of an immense scaffolding, or more properly, 
building of solid timber, framed in the most substantial manner ; not 
merely to sustain the weight of the ribs, but to preserve them unbent and 
accurately in their places “until the whole should be connected. This was 
performed with great precision. The ribs were, in fact, as true as the brass 
meridian of a globe; and, if they had kept so, notwithstanding the impru- 
dent flatness in the centre, I have not the slightest doubt, would have stood 
for an immense period: but, unfortunately, “diagonal braces, which should 
have been adopted throughout, were entirely omitted. This oversight 
became manifest to the superintendent some time since, and he proposed 
to remedy it; but no provision haying been made in the ribs to receive the 

RR 3 


614 Domestic Notices : — England. 


braces, and the additional expense being considerable, the contractor, who 
was not so well aware as he should have been of the risk he ran, refused 
to provide them. The scaffolding was afterwards removed, and the iron- 
work came to its full bearing ; when, immediately, the ribs began to swerve 
from the perpendicular, and slowly bent into serpentine lines: so that, 
when viewed directly edgewise, every arch (consisting, as before described, 
of two opposite ribs) presented the appearance of a double circumflex, or 
elongated figure of 8. Thus all the ribs were obviously bending sidewise, 
and not edgewise more than was the natural consequence of such lateral 
flexure. The bending continued to increase ; when, at length, some of the 
putlins were observed by the workmen to crack: and then, the general 
strain becoming greater than the elasticity of cast-iron could sustain flat- 
wise, the whole centre of the fabric fell in, breaking with a report like the 
running fire of light artillery; giving out, at the same time, such a galaxy 
of immense sparks, as to produce the effect of a powerful flash of lightning. 

“* Notwithstanding this catastrophe, the wreck, £ am happy to say, is not 
so great as might have been expected: more than half the ironwork is 
still in a perfect state, and the brickwork is nearly undamaged. If, there- 
fore, the matter be publicly taken up (as an object so attraetive to this 
distinguished town should be), advantage may be taken of the present 
mishap to remedy the defective construction: and what has at first 
appeared a fatal misfortune, may afford the means of perfecting that which, 
in a complete state, would certainly be one of the most extraordinary and 
magnificent structures in Europe. Iam, Sir, yours, &c. —€. A. Busby. 
1. Stanhope Place, Brunswick Terrace, Sept. 5. 1833.” 

Though we do not consider a dome of any kind as the most suitable 
form for growing exotic plants, either from the temperate or tropical 
regions, yet we should have been glad to see the antheum completed, for 
the sake of its projector, Mr. Phillips. When, however, it is seriously 
contemplated to grow house plants in quantity together, and to a large 
size, a square or parallelogram will be found the most advantageous. 
ground plan, with a ridge and furrow roof, supported by east-izon pillars, 
which might be raised as the plants advanced in size. Such a house, 
whatever might be its extent, would be a mere repetition of two or three 
very simple parts in straight lines, and would, therefore, cost very little; 
at least, not one half per superficial foot so much as a dome of such pro- 
portions as the antheum. A dome is calculated to have a very grand 
appearance when seen from without; and also, if comparatively empty, 
when seen from within: but, when filled with plants, the domical form, 
and the circumstance of its being without interior supports, pass for 
nothing. Any one will be convinced of this who has had an opportunity 
of examining the exterior and interior of the dome at Syon; or of that 
recently taken down at Britton Hall. Circular houses, composed of a 
succession of roofs, supported by pillars, such as we recommended for the 
Birmingham Botanic Garden (Vol. VIII. p. 420. and 422.), are totally 
different constructions, and are scarcely more expensive than the square 
or parallelogram which we recommend ; while their interior effect is equal 
to that of any dome whatever. Let it not be forgotten, that the vastness 
of the hemispherical roof is totally lost in the interior, when the house is 
entirely or even in part filled with trees. — Cond. 

The Collection of Plants of the late A. H. Haworth, Esq., who died suddenly 
on Aug. 24., consisting. chiefly of succulents and bulbs, is to be disposed of 
while the season permits safe removal. The collection consists of above 
160 species of Aloé; 330 Mesembryénthemum ; 25 Cotylédon; 20 Ca- 
calia; 11 Rulingéa, or Anaeampseros ; 21 Hawérthia ; together with nume- 
rous species of Crassula, Mammillaria, Sedum, Sempervivum, Echeveéria, 
&e. &e.; amounting in the whole, including duplicates, to nearly one 
thousand pots. We believe that an offer for these has been accepted. 


Domestic Notices : — England. 615 


The bulbs, and also the herbarium, the insects and Crustacea, and the 
library of books on natural history, are also to be immediately parted with. 
These are, severally, very extensive, and treasures indeed! Our friend 
Mr. Main, 6. Union Row, Queen’s Elm, Chelsea, has the charge of the 
disposal of them. — Cond. 

Instruction in the Sciences which explain the Processes of Nature in Farm- 
img and Gardening. —In p. 610. we have noticed the Cottage Farmer, by 
Mr. Lance; and we shall here quote a paragraph from the close of his 
pamphlet :—“ The writer of this essay proposes to instruct young men 
in the sciences of geology, chemistry, botany, and the elements of all 
the physical sciences ; which will elucidate points necessary to be known 
by farmers, and combine these branches with the practical knowledge 
which now conducts the agriculture of the country; and to use that 
science as an addition, and in subordination, thereto. In agriculture, the 
sciences are all conjoined; they cooperate to produce bread, and open a 
boundless field to enquiry. The botanist finds himself indebted to the 
chemist ; the chemist finds problems, in searching into the physiology of 
plants, which the botanist must solve. The zoologist, the geologist, the 
mineralogist, the meteorologist, the entomologist, are so linked together, 
that they cannot proceed far without the assistance of one another; and 
whatever tends to cement the sciences, and bring their various branches 
into contact, will much facilitate the progress of agricultural knowledge.” 
An agricultural college, for the instruction of young men in the theory 
and practice of farming, is, in consequence of the above opinions, pro- 
posed to be formed by Mr. Lance. Let it be established; it can do no 
harm, even if it doesno good. We fear, however, that the time is gone 
by for establishing institutions of this sort. The farmers of this country 
are, and ever have been, too ignorant to make use of the knowledge which 
is every day set before them; and they are too much prejudiced to benefit 
even from example. We have lately had abundant evidence of this during 
a seven weeks’ tour. There is nothing to be expected from them but by 
the education of their children in their infancy, and at parochial schools. 
As we believe Mr. Lance to be ardently desirous of improving the agri- 
culture of the country, we would entreat of him to consider whether the 
most effectual mode would not be to direct all his efforts towards inducing 
the legislature to establish a national system of education, such as that 
proposed by Mr. Roebuck in the last session of parliament, of which he 
will find an account in the Hwaminer for August 11. — Cond. 

A Rural Temple, intended as an Ornament for Parks.and Pleasure-Grounds, 
has been devised and manufactured by Mr. John Mathews, architect, of 
Frimley, Surrey. It is stated that “the materials of which it is composed 
are principally hazel rods, and that the architectural relations of its com- 
partments are executed with mathematical exactness; that this temple, 
and others of a variety of plans, may be made of any dimensions; and 
that they are quite portable, and will endure for a century or two.” 

Virginia Water, and the adjacent Grounds. — These the king has ordered 
to be opened to the public in general. We had an opportunity of viewing 
them during the course of our late tour; and though, from the extent of 
the grounds, and the broad expanse of the water, the former afford a 
healthy rural walk along the margin of the latter, yet, taken in a picturesque 
point of view, they have nothing to boast of: and, as to gardening or plant- 
ing, these have the characteristic poverty of all the other grounds belonging 
to royalty, with the sole exception of the shrubberies at Kew. — Cond. 

Indian and Chinese Plants. — The Directors of the East India Company 
have presented to the Society of Apothecaries, for their garden at Chelsea, 
a valuable collection of plants and seeds, natives of India and China. The 
plants, a few only of which died on the voyage, came over in square boxes, 
enclosed in frames glazed with the shell of the pearl oyster. 

RR 4 


1474. 


616 Eloricultural and Botanical Notices, 


Art. II]. Floricultural and Botanical Notices of new Plants, and 
of old Plants of Interest, supplementary to the latest Editions of 
the “ Encyclopedia of Plants,’ and of the “ Hortus Britannicus.” 


Curtis’s Botanical Magazine ; each monthly Number containing eight plates ; 
3s. 6d. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Hooker, King’s Professor of 
Botany in the University of Glasgow. 

Edwards’s Botanical Register; each monthly Number containing eight 
plates ; 4s. eoloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Lindley, F.R.S., Pro- 
fessor of Botany in the London University. 

Sweet’s British Flower-Garden; each monthly Number containing four 
plates; 3s. coloured, 2s. 3d. plain. Edited by David Don, Esq., Libra- 
rian to the Linnean Society. 

Loddiges’s Botanical Cabinet; each monthly Number containing ten plates ; 
5s. coloured, 2s. 6d. partly coloured. Edited by Messrs. Loddiges. 


DicoTyLEDONOUS PoLYPETALOUS PLANTS. 


XXIV. Malvicee. Malva umbellata Cav., according to Hort. Brit., 
introduced to Britain in 1814, and figured in the Botanical Cabinet, in 
t. 222., is figured as a newly-introduced plant in the Bétanical Register for 
August, t. 1608. Mr. D. Don, who contributes the description, remarks 
that Maélva umbellata “ is rather a coarse-looking plant; but its many 
elegant scarlet blossoms compensate for its less graceful habit.” (Bot. 
Reg., Aug.) 

XLVI. Cacteae. 


OPU’NTIA. (Found wild in the country of the Opuntii, a Grecian people.) 
§ 2. Divaricate Haw. 
aurantiaca Lindl. orange-fiwd. # _)gr3... O.Y. Chile 1824. CsjJ.ru Bot. reg. 1606 


Cactus aurantiacus Gillzes MSS. 


“ The plant from which our drawing was made is a branched dark green 
bush. The flowers are of a clear bright yellow colour, about 14 in. wide 
when expanded, with a column of white stamens in their centre.” 

“¢ Every one knows that the spines of the Cacteze are always difficult to 
extract when they have entered the skin. If the spines are magnified, it 
will be found that this property is owing to their being closely covered, from 
the point downwards, with numerous barbs, which have their cutting bases 
directed towards the base of the spine: in appearance they are very like 
the arrow-heads with several rows of barbs, such as are used by certam 
Indian nations. 

“ An interesting fact relating to the common European opuntia is men- 
tioned by M. De Candolle : —‘ Among the practical consequences,’ he 
observes, ‘ that results from the facility with which the Cactez strike from 
cuttings, there is one which, on account of its importance, deserves to be 
noticed: it is the manner in which the opuntia is employed to fertilise the 
old lavas at the foot of Etna. As soon as a fissure is perceived, a branch 
or joint of an opuntia is stuck in; the latter pushes out roots, which are 
nourished by the rain that collects round them, or by whatever dust or 
remains of organic matter may have collected into a little soil. These 
roots, once developed, insinuate themselves into the most minute crevices, 
expand, and finally break up the lava into mere fragments. Opuntias 
treated in this manner produce a great deal of fruit, which is sold as a 
refreshing fruit throughout all the towns of Sicily.” (Bet. Reg., Aug.) 

LVI. Myrtacee. 


1498. EUCALY’PTUS. 
12820 amygdalina Zab. Almond-leaved %\_|or6 jl W V.D.L. 1810. Ls Bot. mag. 3260 


This species, trained to a wall in the Edinburgh Botanic Garden, has 
‘there flowered. “ With us,” says Dr. Graham, “ it is rather a slender 


supplementary to Enc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 617 


shrub. We have not yet ascertained whether, like the pulverulénta, it 
will thrive without the protection of a wall.” This shrub, though not 
showy in its flowers, is graceful in its pendulous branches, and long, nar- 
row, lanceolate green leaves. (Bot. Mag., August.) 

LXXIIL. Rosacee. 


1523. RU*BUS. 
13555a réridus Lindl. dewy-glanded %\_)? cu... aut W Madagascar 1831. L1p Bot, reg. 1607 


1246. 


Figured from Mr. Lambert’s garden at Boyton, Wiltshire. It is strikingly 
different from all the known species of simple-leaved brambles in its finely 
cut stipules and bracteas, which are covered with numerous little trans- 
parent green glands; giving all the parts that surround the petals an 
appearance of being sprinkled with green dew. #. roridus is chiefly an 
object of botanical interest, there beig little in it to attract the mere lover 
of showy flowers. Its fruit is unknown. (Bot. Reg., August.) 

LXXVIL. Leguminodse § Sophorez. 

CHORO’ZEMA Lad. 
spartidides B. C. Spartium-like # Jor34sp Y.R N. Holl, 1832. Cs.p Bot. cab, 1953 

“ We raised it from seeds in 1832, and it flowered in abundance the fol- 
lowing spring. The plants were not more than 2in. or 3in. high. The 
flowers are large, and splendid in colour. Its minuteness has hitherto pre- 
vented us from any attempt at propagating it; but it will probably, like 
others of the same genus, strike by cuttings.” (Loddiges’s Bot. Cab., 
August.) 


1251. GOMPHOLO'BIUM. 
105%4a ténue Lind. slender Ww, Jorlau Y SW.N.Holl. 1830. Cp Bot reg. 1615 


A miniature shrub, raised in the nursery of Mr. Knight, from seeds col- 
lected by Mr. William Baxter. It flowered, for the first time in England, 
in August, 1832. Each of its slender shoots bears alternate leaves, each 
of three narrow leaflets; and is tipped with a pea-shaped blossom, whose 
outline equals in width that of a sixpenny-piece; and of a yellow colour, 
with its standard purplish at its back. It requires to be kept in an extremely 
well ventilated situation in a green-house. (ot. Reg., Sept.) 

Legumindse § Lotee. 


1941. PLATYLO‘BIUM. [Bot. mag. 3258 
17292a obtusAngulum Hook, obtuse-angled-lvud. “% tjorl my Y.R V.D.L. 1832? Ssp 


Raised from seeds sent from Van Diemen’s Land by Dr. Scott. A beau- 
tiful plant. P. obtusangulum “ may possibly be only a variety of P. tri- 
angulare of Brown, as given in the Botanical Magazine, t. 1508.; but has 
a much more straggling habit and longer branches, frequently throwing out 
new shoots from the axils of the leaves; the old leaves have much more 
obtuse angles, and the young ones are not angular at all; the flowers are 
considerably larger, and the lobes of the calyx particularly so.” (Bot. 
Mag., August.) 


172926 Murrayanum Hook. Murray’s “% jor 1 my Y.R V.D.L. 1832. Ssp Bot. mag. 3259 


2102. ASTRA’/GALUS. 


“ Raised, from seed sent from Van Diemen’s Land by Dr. Scott, at 
the Glasgow Botanic Garden; and Mr. Murray, the able and zealous 
curator of this establishment, at once recognised it as a species quite dis- 
tinct both from P. obtusangulum and from the P. triangulare: and I [Dr. 
Hooker] am desirous that it should bear his name. It bears a great num- 
ber of flowers, which expand their vivid petals during the day, and close 
them as the evening approaches.” (Bot. Mag., August.) 


[Bot. mag. 3263 
procambens Hook. & A. procumbent-stemmed X Al? orlj my Y.B.P Chile 1832. Sco 


A pretty species, although not a strikingly showy one. “ Communicated 
from the Birmingham Botanic Garden by Mr. Cameron, who raised the 
plant from Chilian seeds. It is found in the plains at Conception, Val- 
paraiso, and Coquimbo ; and will probably always require the protection 


2837. 


618 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


of a green-house or of a frame:” during winter only, of course, is, at most, 
meant. (Bot. Mag., Sept.) 

Astragalus vesicarius (bladdery-calyxed milk vetch) is figured in the 
Botanical Magazine for September, t. 3268., where the following remarks 
on it are given : — “ This very handsome and very highly desirable species 
is a native of barren wastes in the south of France, and of Russia as well 
as of Hungary, and is perfectly hardy: it flowers in May. Although, as 
cultivated in the Glasgow Botanic Garden from seeds communicated by 
M. Otto of Berlin, the flowers are always of a rich purple colour, becom- 
ing darker and almost blue in age, yet they appear, in a wild state, to be 
sometimes cream-coloured or white.” 

Leguminise § Mimosee. 

ACA‘CLA. 


24667a verniciflua Cun. varnish-flowing #,_}or6mr.my Y N. Holl. 1823. Cs.l.p Bot. mag. 3266 


1414. 


Synonymes: No. 24682. Hort. Brit. ; and also, No. 24732., according to Cunningham, in Bot. Mag. 


A slender twiggy shrub, remarkable for a glutinous substance which 
clothes not only the young stems, but (although in a less degree) the 
young foliage also. Mr. Cunningham discovered this species “in the 
country around Bathurst [New Holland], where it flowered throughout the 
winter. It also adorns the barren hills near Cox’s River, at the cool sea- 
son of the year; and in about December its pods are ripened. With us, 
at Kew, it blossoms in the spring, along with many others of its kindred ; 
mingled with which, it forms an agreeable contrast by its slender habit and 
deep yellow flowers,’ which are grouped into globular heads, seated on 
short axillary stalks. (Bot. Mag., Sept.) 

CXXIIL. Ovalidee. 

O/XALIS. 


11985a brasiliénsis B. C. Brazilian % AJor2 my Ro Brazil 1829. Op. Bot. cab.1962 


118. 


We received bulbs of it, in 1829, from Mr. Warre, who collected them 
himself in Brazil... It is a very pleasing plant. We have kept it very 
well in the green-house, potted in light loam and peat. It increases itself 
freely by offsets. (Bot. Cab., Sept.) 

O’xalis crenata |Vol. VIII. p.16., Vol. 1X. p.'78. 232.] appears to be 
one of the most accommodating and prolific plants I know; but it cannot 
have too rich a soil. The only plant which has flowered in this neighbour- 
hood is one raised by a gardener of the name of Saunders, from a tuber 
weighing only 28 grains, which he planted in an old cucumber bed, and 
which has produced a bush as large as a gooseberry bush. This plant 
flowered on the 5th of August, and has produced above 1000 blossoms, 
making a most splendid appearance; but these all fall off without pro- 
ducing seed. The brief descriptions of this plant, given in De Candolle’s 
Prodromus and Turton’s translation of Linnzeus’s Systema Nature, are 
extremely vague and inaccurate. De Candolle speaks of the umbel as 5 
to 6 flowered, while it really is from 10 to 13 or 14 flowered. The calyx is 
deeply 6 or 7 cleft; the corolla is 6, 7, or 8 petaled; and the number of 
stamina is 15 or 16, arranged in two rows, in the outer of which the fila- 
ments are above one half shorter than the 9 or 10 within. —Wm. Hamilton. 
15. Oxford Place, Plymouth, Aug. 26. 1833. 

In a previous letter, dated March 9. 1833, Dr. Hamilton remarked, 
that a knowledge of the proportion of amylaceous contents in an equal 
weight of the tubers of O’xalis crenata Jacq. and of those of the potato 
(Solanum tuberosum Z.) is very desirable ; and that it is to be hoped cul- 
tivators of, and experimenters on, the O’xalis crenata will direct their 
efforts to the determination of this point. See, in p. 594., a notice of the 
use of the leaves of O’xalis tetraphylla as sorrel. 

CXXIV. Tropedlee. 

TROPH*OLUM 9311 majus. 
3 atrosanguineum D.Don darkred © “or 3 jn.o Peru Gardenvar. Sco Sw.fl.g.2.s.20% 


This is a splendid variety of the common nasturtium. “ Its large dark 


1923. 


supplementary to Enc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 619 


red blossoms, of a velvety hue, render it a most desirable object for the 
fiower-garden. It is usually more dwarf than the common kind ; and, like 
it, will thrive in almost any soil. It is readily increased by cuttings, and, 
we have little doubt, will continue true to colour from seed. Figured from 
the nursery of Messrs. Allen and Rogers, Battersea. (The British Flower- 
Garden, August.) Messrs. Young cultivate this variety. See Mr. Penny’s 
list, p. 4:90. 
CXXXI. Passifloree. 
PASSIFLO‘RA. 


16859a@ pheenicea Lindl. crimson & (-) spt 20 s Cc oo 1831. Clip Bot. reg. 1603 


“ A splendid acquisition, for which we are indebted to the Right Hon. 
the Countess of Bridgewater, in whose stove at Ashridge it flowered in 
September, 1832. It is nearly allied to P. alata and quadrangularis ; from 
which it differs in having only two glands at the upper end of the leafstalk, 
and in the form of the leaves of its involucrum. Its flowers are also much 
more brilliantly coloured than are those of either P. alata or P. quadran- 
gularis. The petals, on their inner surface, are of a rich deep scarlet ; on 
the outside, deep violet, with a white streak along the middle. The crown 
is about as long as the petals, composed of several rows of tapering pro- 
cesses ; which are collected into a cylinder, and are white, with crimson 
bands on the lower half, and, on their upper half, a deep rich violet.” 
(Bot. Reg., August.) 

CXL. Caryophillee. 


1415a. AGROSTE’/MMA. 
12017 pyrenaica G. Don Pyrenean Y A pri jn.jl_ Pa.Ro Pyrenees 1819. D p.l Sw.fl.gar.2.s.202 


3397. 


1173, 


Lychnis pyrenaica Bergeret, Hort. Brit. No. 12017. p. 186. 


An interesting diminutive species, suited to rockwork or a collection of 
potted plants. Its flowers are delicately coloured, and are pretty. (The 
British Flower-Garden, August.) 

CXLIV. Portulacee. 

CALANDRI'NIA. 
arenaria Lindl. sand-inhabiting A *&cui jl O.Ro Valparaiso 1831. Ss.1 Bot. reg. 1605 

“ Like many other weedy things, this possesses peculiar beauties if 
carefully observed. If neither its corolla nor its leaf are curiously formed 
or richly coloured, the singular markings of the calyx and bractez are 
extremely pretty. .... A hardy inconspicuous annual, readily increasing by 
its little shining black seeds, which it produces in great abundance.” Pos- 
sessed by the London Horticultural Society. (Bot. Reg., August.) 


DicotyLeponous Monopetatous PuLants. 
CLXX. Ericee §) vere. 


ERICA § Tubiflire. 
canthariformis B.C. can-flwd. %\ _\jor my.jn W C.G.H. 1829? Cs.p Bot. cab. 196% 

“ Introduced not long since. .. . It is of upright growth. . . The flowers, 
in shape, resemble a little can; and, as the picture represents them to be 
numerously produced, it is, while in flower, doubtless a pleasing species, 
and, therefore, a desirable one. (Bot. Cab., Sept.) 

CLXXI. Epacridee. Dracophyllum secindum is figured m the Bo- 
tanical Magazine for September, t.3264.; where Mr. Allan Cunningham 
remarks, of this elegant and interesting shrub, which was first raised in this 
country from seeds that he gathered near Port Jackson, and transmitted im 
1823, — “ It is found in shaded ravines, and such humid situations as the 
ferns delight in. In its native country, its habit is different from that which 
it not unfrequently assumes when under cultivation ; for, growing there, as. 
it always does, on wet sandstone rocks, almost wholly denuded of soil, its 
raceme is much fewer flowered, and the plant itself altogether of slenderer 
growth..... The plant is a very desirable one for. cultivation, as it flowers 


620 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


freely with the protection of a green-house; and there ripens seeds, by 
means of which it may readily be increased.” (Bot. Mag., Sept.) 
CLXXILV. Campanulacee. 


606a. PLATYCO‘DON A, Dec. (Platys, broad, kodon, abell.) 5.1. Sp. 1.— 
4926 grandifldrus 4. Dec. great-flwd. < A or1jn.au_ B Siberia 1782. D pl Sw.fl.g.2.s.208 
Campanula grandiflbra Z., Wahlenbérgia péndula Schr, Hort. Brit., No. 4926. 

“ One of the showiest of this showy group of plants; and, although in- 
troduced many years ago, it is still far from common in our gardens. It 
will be found to thrive best in a mixture of peat and loam ; and is increased 
by parting the roots, or by seeds. Figured from the nursery of Mr, Knight. 
(The British Flower-Garden, Sept.) Mr. Dennis has plants of it. 

CLXXXVI. Composite. Trib. Senecionidee. Subtrib. Tagetineze Lessing. 

2364. BOL/BER A. 
incana Lindi. hoary-herbaged %\ Jor 1in Go Mexico 1828? Slt. Bot. reg. 1602 


It is a half-shrubby green-house plant, of little beauty, and possessing 
the peculiar odour of the French marigold, to which it is nearly allied. 
This odour resides in a number of little transparent bags enclosed within 
the substance of the leaf, which are filled with a very volatile oil. Seeds 
of it were obtained from Mexico, some years since, by Edward Barnard, 
Esq. (Jot. Reg., Sept.) 

CXCV. Asclepiadere. 


778. CEROPESGIA. 
62lla Wighté# Grah. Dr. Wight’s _$ [7] cu 20 su G.P East Indies 1832. D 1p Bot. mag. 3267 


“ This very distinct species of Ceropégia flowered this summer, 1833, 
in the Edinburgh Botanic Garden, where it had been received from the 
East Indies, under the name of C. bulbdsa. It agrees with that species in 
having a tuberous rootstock, a twining succulent stem, in the leaves, and 
in the form of the corolla; but it is at once distinguished by the corona, 
or crown of the stamens, which equally separates it from every other spe- 
cies with which Lam acquainted. I would take this opportunity of callmg 
the attention of botanists to the form of that organ, as affording the most 
permanent characters for distinguishing allied species in this genus.’ (Dr. 
Wieht, in Bot. Mag., Sept., whose remarks there merit the attention of 
the student in botany.) 

Hoya Péttsz is figured in the Botanical Cabinet for September, t. 1969. : 
it flowers in May. 

CC. Polemoniacee. 


473 COLLO‘MIA. 
28070a lateritia D. Don redbrick-coloured © ori1jl Bri Chile 1832. Sco Sw.fl.gar. 2.s. 206 


Flowers individually small, but crowded into tufts at the tip of the 
branches; and, as several flowers in one part or other of the tufts are open 
together, they in their number and red colour are not inconspicuous. “ It 
is a hardy annual, of very easy culture; and ripens its seeds freely, which 
come up spontaneously in the open border. Our drawing was taken at the 
botanic garden, Chelsea, in July last.” (The British Flower-Garden, Sept.) 

CCXI Scrophuldrine. § Anther-bearing stamens two. ; 


65. CALCEOLA*RIA. 
279956 crenatifldra Cav nctched-lipped y _AJ or 13 jn.s Y.spot Chiloe 1831. S p.s.l Bot. mag. 3255 
C. anédmala Persoon, C. péndula D. Don in Sweet’s Brit. Flower-Guarden, 2.s. t.155., and in 

Gard. Mag., vol. viii. p. 601. 

“ There is no species of this beautiful genus which forms so striking an 
object in the green-house as this. How far it will bear cultivation in the 
open air we have yet to ascertain. I can see no reason whatever for the 
specific distinction between C. crenatiflora and C. péndula which is at- 
tempted to be drawn in The British Flower-Garden. I have both plants 
from Mr. Low of the Clapton Nursery, who first raised them from seeds 
gathered in Chiloe by Mr. Anderson, and who furnished the plant figured 
as C.péndula in Zhe British Flower-Garden; and I cannot see a shade of 


supplementary to Linc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 621 


difference between them.” (Dr. Graham in Bot. Mag., August.) C. cre- 
natiflora is figured in the Botanical Register tor September, t. 1609., where 
Dr. Lindley describes it as “ one of the handsomest of the Chilian cal- 
ceolarias.. . . It is a herbaceous plant, growing from 1 ft. to 2 ft. high, and 
of a remarkably dark rich green im the foliage. ... . It is as hardy a species 
as any one of the genus, and admirably adapted for employing as the male 
parent of a race of hybrids. Like all the other species, plenty of air and 
a cool situation, when in a growing state, are absolutely indispensable to 
it; for in no way do the whole of the herbaceous kind thrive so well near 
London as kept in pots in a cool shady frame. . . . . Increased by seeds, 
and by division at the crown of the root.” Drawn from a plant in Mr. 
Low’s nursery, at Clapton. 

577a@ viscosissima Lindl. clammiest # _] or 3 my.o Go.Y Chile 1832. C pl Bot. reg. 1611 
C. integrifdlia y viscosissima Hooker in Bot. Mag., 3214., Gard. Mag., vol. ix.p. 238., C. rugdsa 

macrophylla Hort., C. rugdsa latifolia Herbert. 

A beautiful shrubby species, with the habit of C. integrifolia, except that 
it has a far more herbaceous character. It grows about 3ft. high, and 
produces ample crops of flowers all the summer long. It is covered all 
over with viscid hairs, so densely that it is difficult to separate it from any 
thing that is pressed upon it. (Bot. Reg., Sept.) 

CCXIII. Solanee. § With the seeds enclosed in a berry. 

591. SOLA‘NUM 
Zigistrinum B.C. Privet-leaved # Jor 5 my ODp.Li Chile 1831. C r.l Bot. cab. 1963 

Raised from seeds received of Mr. Cuming. “ It is a free-growing 
shrubby plant, with slender branches, and may be easily preserved in a 
green-house:”’ we have ventured to say, a frame. “ It may be readily 
multiplied by cuttings, which should be potted in rich loamy soil.” The 
picture exhibits two corymbs of flowers; of which one consists of five 
flowers, the other of four: a sixpenny-piece would about cover each 
flower. (Bot. Cab., Sept.) 

Soldnee. § With the seeds enclosed in a capsule. 


1714. SALPIGLO’SSIS. 
29217 linearis Grah. linear-lvd. ye Ajor laps P.Y Buen. Ayres 1832. C1.t Bot. mag. 3256 
Botanists differ as to the generic relations of this plant. 


* Exceedingly pretty, and very well deserving of cultivation. It strikes 
ue readily by cuttings, and will probably thrive well in a dry light green- 

ouse.”” 

Schizanthus rettsus is figured in Sweet’s British Flower-Garden for 
August, t. 201., from the nursery of Messrs. Allen and Rogers. Mr. D. Don 
has remarked, that the glandular hairs of the species of Schizanthus give 
out a peculiar acid secretion: “a fact,’ says Mr. Don, “ first pointed 
out to me by Miss Murray, a young lady of eminent botanical taste and 
knowledge.” 

“ A light fresh earth, not too rich, will be found to suit S. retusus best ; 
and, if the plants are to be kept in the green-house, a free admission of 
air and light is absolutely necessary to preserve them in health and vigour, 
and to give the flowers their proper tints of colour:” and these, ac- 
cording to the coloured figure, are most strikingly showy. 

Mr. Don remarks, that, notwithstanding that botanists generally refer 
this genus to the order Scrophularinez, and compare it with Calceolaria, 
he feels confident that it belongs to the erder Solanez ; and is closely 
allied to the genus Salpigldssis in the structure of its capsule and seed, in 
its arched embryo, its glandulose capitate pubescence, and its corolla being 
somewhat similarly coloured and variegated. 


MonocoryLeponous PLANTs. 


CCXLV. Melanthacee. 
Xerophyllum setifolium of Michaux is figured in the Botanical Register 
for September, t.1613., where Dr. Lindley represents that both the X. 


979. 


622 Flovicultural and Botanical Notices. 


tenax Nué. and X. asphodeléides Nut. (the Helonias asphodeloides DL.) 
are one and the same as X. setifolium JZr. If this be the case, Nos. 9131. 
and 9132. of Hort. Brit. imply but one plant. X. setifolium Mr, “grows 
wild in various parts of North America, especially in the sterile tracts 
called pine barrens, both on the east and west side of the continent. The 
natives inhabiting the highlands of the Rocky Mountains, where it is 
abundant, weave their water-tight baskets out of its tenacious leaves.” 
CCXXXVIII. Amaryllidez. 


ALSTREME'RIA. 


28163a aurantiaca D.Don orangy-flud. § A|spl 2jn O.spot Chile 1831. Dp Sw.fl.gar.2.s.205 


2524. 
22642, 


2530. 


? A. atrea Hort., Penny in Gard. Mag., vol. ix. p. 490. 


‘© We fear that this very showy plant is scarcely entitled to be considered 
in any other light than as a mere variety of A. Sims Swt.; and from which 
it is distinguished by, besides colour, chiefly its perfectly glabrous leaves, 
by the lanceolate and more pointed inner leaflets of the perianth, and by 
their longer and narrower claws: but the erect species of Alstroeméria are 
found to vary so exceedingly, that we are sceptical of any definition that 
can be given of them. Introduced from Chile by Mr. Anderson, the inde- 
fatigable collector, who accompanied Captain King in his voyage of survey 
in South America. The plant requires the same treatment as A. Simsi, 
and appears to be quite as hardy as that species. Our drawing was taken 
in the Clapton Nursery, in June last.”” (Zhe British Flower-Garden, Sept.) 
We presume this is the very kind of which Mr. Penny has, in our last 
Number (p. 490.), thus spoken : —“ A. atirea Hort., closely related to A. 
psittacina; and, like that species, easily increased by division. The flowers 
are bright yellow, inclining to orange colour, with crimson lines on the 
upper segments: it is a beautiful species.” 

Mr. Don takes occasion to remark, that the interesting physiological 
fact exhibited in the resupinate leaves of the alstroemerias, and which we 
have quoted in Vol. VIII. p. 724., from Dr. Lindley, and supposed had ori- 
ginated with that author, was the discovery of Dr. Brown, some time since. 

CCXL. Orchidee § Vander. 


CIRRHE*A. (Bot. cab. 1967 
viridi-purpurea B.C, green andpurple @ [Alor = my G.P.spot Brazil 1827. D lt.mosspotsh 
This is the species which we have indicated in Vol. VIII. p. 725.; and the Gongora viridi-pur- 

pirea of Hooker in Bot. Mag., t. 2978. 

“ This curious plant has been lately introduced. The flowers are dis- 
posed in a pendulous raceme; and, in that exhibited in the plate, are 
eleven in number: their segments are of a lanceolate form, and have a 
green ground colour, abundantly spotted with transverse blotches or spots 
of a purple colour. We should say it is an elegant and beautiful plant. 
(Bot. Cab., Sept.) 


CATASEXTUM. [Bot. mag. 3262 


22656a trifidum Hook. trifid-lipped €or 12 my Lu.G.spot Frinidad 1832. D p.r.w 


Leaves elliptic-lanceolate, waved, striated; of a bright but pale green 
above, pale and somewhat glaucous beneath. Scape from the base of the 
stem nearly 11 ft. high. Flowers large, of a lurid green colour, tinged and 
copiously spotted with purple, disposed in a lax drooping spike. A beauti- 
ful and most interesting species, sent home alive by Mr. Lockhart. (Bot. 
Mag., Sept.) 

Orchidee § Epidéndree. Bletia hyacinthina is figured in the Botanical 
Cabinet for September, t. 1968., where Messrs. Loddiges remark, that “it 
has been usual to keep this plant in the stove; but we find it to grow and 
thrive in a far superior manner in the green-house. It shouldbe potted in 
vegetable earth, with a portion of sand; and it increases itself freely by 
offsets from the bulbs. The flowers are produced during the spring 
months ; they are exceedingly beautiful: their colour baffles art more than 
that of many others, its clearness and brilliancy in the living specimen being 
absolutely inimitable.” 


Retrospective Criticism. 623 


Orchidee § Malaxidee. Of Dendrobium specidsum, a superb spe- 
cimen, “ one of five produced upon the same cluster of stems, in the 
garden of the Rev. Mr. Huntley of Kimbolton, Huntingdonshire, is figured 
in the Botanical Register for September, t. 1610. Dr. Lindley observes, 
that this species is very common in collections, but that it seldom flowers. 
“ This,” he adds, “ is owing to the weakness of the specimens, compared 
with what is natural to them in their own country. It is not enough to 
keep their leaves green and plump, it is also necessary that the plants 
should grow rapidly, and to at least twice the size we are accustomed to 
see them: then, and then only, will they yield their stately and beautiful 
racemes of pale yellow wax-like blossoms.” 


Art. II. Retrospective Criticism. 


A MisTake by the Conductor respecting the Wages of the Assistant Gar- 
deners employed in the Gardens at Woburn Abbey. (p. 455.) — Sir, On 
looking over the last Number of your Gardener's Magazine, I perceive 
the following passage, inserted at p. 455.:— “ The last time we were at 
Woburn Abbey, the wages of the journeymen gardeners there were 9s. a 
week.” Iam at a loss to conceive how you could possibly make such a 
mistake; as the wages of the journeymen gardeners employed at Woburn 
Abbey were from 12s., 14s., 16s., 18s. to 20s. a week, exclusive of lodging, 
milk, vegetables, &c. I must therefore beg that you will have the good- 
ness to take the earliest opportunity of correcting your former statement ; 
as, in fact, there is not a labouring man employed in the gardens here, 
whose wages are even as low as 11s. 6d. per week throughout the year, 
which sum they have not been under during the last therty years, but fre- 
quently above it. LIremain, Sir, yours, &c.— J. Forbes. Woburn Abbey 
Gardens, August 7. 1833. 

Pecuniary Disabilities of Working Gardeners. — Sir, In looking through 
your Magazine for October, Vol. VIII. p. 521., I observed “ Horticultural 
Jottanda of a recent Continental Tour by Robert Mallet, jun., Esq.” He 
says that the pecuniary difficulties of young gardeners are not so great as 
may be imagined: “ An attentive young man could and ought to have 80/. 
by the time he is 24 years of age.” Certainly Mr. Mallet never has been a 
journeyman gardener ; or, at least, if he had, he certainly had more than 9s. 
or 10s. a week (that being the general wages in Scotland), that he could 
imagine other men could save so much at so early an age. If, like some of 
our live stock, we could live by suction, we should, no doubt, soon be able 
to accumulate the said 80/. He speaks of our going to France, Italy, and re- 
turning through Germany, Belgium, and Holland, and to provide ourselves 
with carpet bags, magnesia, detonating pistols, military uniform, and what 
not. Supposing all this provision to be made previously to starting, I think 
the hard-earned 80/. would be nearly expended in purchasing all this 
grandeur before we left our ain highland hills. I do not mean to say any 
thing for or against the utility of such a tour; but I should be obliged to 
Mr. Mallet, or any of your correspondents, if they would communicate the 
new way (at least new in this part of the country) by which a young gar- 
dener can save the money requisite for the purpose. If he or they will, 
and I can succeed in practising it, I shall certainly become atourist. Iam, 
Sir, yours, &c.— W. B., a young Gardener and constant Reader. Perth- 
shire, March 24. 1833. 

The List of Plants from Provincial Nurserymen: Mr. Henry Laundy’s 
Rejoinder to Messrs. Jeffries and Son’s Reply, p.493., and to that of Mr. John 
Smith, p. 494. — I am unable to conceive how Messrs. Jeffries and Son see 
that any saving of expense results from the insertion of lists, when the par- 


624 Retrospective Criticism. 


ties have not the plants in sufficient quantities for sale, which Messrs. Jef- 
fries and Son admit was partly their case at the time of their list being 
inserted. I would remark, the most likely way to avoid expenses is to 
apply to any one of the many eminent nurserymen in the vicinity of the 
metropolis, and who, if not possessing the plant, would be happy to pro- 
cure them for, and to instantly forward them to, them. Messrs. Jeffries and 
Son state me to have said “ Mr. Smith being a man not possessing any know- 
ledge of plants,” which is erroneous. I said professing; and as Mr. Smith 
has, in p. 495., declared my assertion of his not professing any knowledge 
of plants void of the least particle of truth, I give up my author, who is 
Mr. John Smith himself, and his words verbatim to me, namely, “ I know 
nothing at all about plants ; forcing is my hobby.”— Henry Laundy. Wood- 
bridge Nursery, Sept. 2. 1833. 

Criticisms, Facts, and Suggestions on cultivating Cape Heaths. (p. 244.) — 
Sir, I observe, in your Gardener’s Magazine, frequent communications 
relative to the best mode of growing Cape heaths [Vol. V. p. 47., Vol. VIII. 
p- 736., Vol. LX. p. 244.], but the treatment recommended is so various 
and contradictory, that it is not surprising we so seldom meet with these 
lovely plants. That a genus so splendid, affording so much interest, and 
displaying such variety, both in flowers and foliage, should be neglected, is 
matter of regret ; and that this indifference should arise from the, I believe 
erroneous, opinion of the great and almost insurmountable difficulty of 
keeping heaths, is much to be deplored; because it deters a vast number 
from turning their attention to the cultivation of them, that might otherwise 
be disposed to do so, were it not for the hopelessness of succeeding which, 
they are taught to believe, attends the growing of them. In your last 
Number (p. 244, 245.) I perceive two of your correspondents (a Constant 
Reader and E. B.) recommending two modes of treatment, as opposite as 
possible, for the prevention of mildew: a Constant Reader advising the 
leaves never to be subjected to wet, and always to be kept under glass; 
and E. B. proposing that the hardier sorts should be turned out of the 
green-house in the summer, and placed under a wall, so that they may 
not be exposed to the sun, in the middle of the day; and that the more 
tender sorts be put into a frame, and occasionally watered over their leaves. 
Perhaps each of these methods may be good under particular circumstances ; 
but, in opposition to both, I would beg to refer to the mode adopted at the 
Tooting Nursery. I paid a visit to this place a summer or two back, when 
I saw the greater part of the heaths, placed in the centre of the ground, 
exposed to the sun during the whole of the day, and also to all the heavy 
rains of the season: they were looking certainly rather rusty, but displaying 
a hardy stocky growth. In the following spring I again called at this 
nursery, when I found the heaths looking in excellent health, with abund- 
ance of bloom; indeed, a more beautiful sight cannot well be imagined. 
This, I think, clearly proves that ericas may be exposed both to rain and 
sun with advantage. 

Some few years back, chance led me to a gentleman’s garden in the 
neighbourhood of Clapham, where I saw a small collection of ericas, but 
well grown, and blooming in an uncommonly fine style: I had seen heaths 
before, it is true, but had never been so much struck with their beauty. 
On leaving the place, I determined in my own mind to attempt to grow 
heaths, notwithstanding the difficulty I was led to expect. I therefore 
immediately commenced getting a collection, and in a few weeks I had 
procured nearly seventy different species. As I knew nothing of the culti- 
vation myself, | wasindebted to the advice of some of my more experienced 
acquaintances, all of whom agreed in recommending me to be very careful 
in not giving them too much water. In a short time, however, I found 
some of my heaths dead ; and, on consulting my professional friends, they 


Retrospective Criticism. 625 


one and all told me it was in consequence of watering them too much. 
Acting on this advice, I was induced to decrease the quantity, but still the 
mortality increased in a frightful degree. When my stock had been reduced 
to something less than a dozen, I began to fancy there must be some other 
cause than the one assigned, and I was strengthened in this opinion by the 
circumstance of observing that the mould of the plants which I turned out 
of the pots, after their dissolution, was quite hard and dry, particularly in 
the centre: it therefore occurred to me that the cause of my losses was 
quite the reverse from the one assigned. I immediately proceeded to re-pot 
the few I had left, in a mixture of bog [heath mould] and sand, a small 
portion of loam, and some broken pieces of pot: this was previous to the 
treatment recommended [Vol. I. p. 363—365.] by Mr. Bowie coming 
under my observation. I then gave them a good portion of water, and con- 
tinued to do so during the remainder of the summer. I soon found them 
assume a more healthy appearance, and I did not lose one during the suc- 
ceeding winter. I have continued the same treatment ever since, never 
allowing them, if possible, to get too dry, particularly in the summer ; and I 
find that the few species which I have got thrive with me, and some of them 
seed very freely. It is true that, from particular circumstances, I have 
never been able to get together so extensive a collection as I did on my 
first attempt to grow heaths, but I have, in subsequent years, increased my 
stock a little, and I give a list below + of the species which I now have, 
the whole of which I have had in my own charge for upwards of two years, 
and several of them are those which I first purchased. I have put a star to 
those which have seeded with me. When I state that, from my avocations, 
Tam from home at least eight hours every day, and have, besides, a great num- 
ber of other plants to attend to, it will, I think, prove that there is not so 
much difficulty in keeping heaths as we are led to suppose. I should, 
perhaps, observe that I have kept the greater part of them under glass, as re- 
commended by your correspondent, “A Constant Reader ;” but Iam induced 
to do this, more from a want of convenience to put them out, than from 
any fear of the consequence of exposing them to the weather in the sum- 
mer: besides, my residence is not out of the influence of the smoke of 
London; and although I am not prepared to deny that ericas may be kept 
near London, yet I must confess my opinion is decidedly in favour of a 
pure atmosphere being indispensable for growing them in perfection. That 
a green-house is not absolutely necessary for preserving them, I think any 
one will readily admit, after seemg Mr. Fairbairn’s heaths, in the Clapham 
Road Nursery, than which none can look more healthy: these are kept in 
pits only in the winter; and it is, I believe, the practice at this place also 
to expose them in the open air in the summer. 

In every collection of heaths it must be expected that some will occa- 
sionally perish; besides, many of them, as they get old, become unsightly : 
it is therefore desirable always to keep a succession of young plants. This 
can easily be done by striking a few, every year, from cuttings. Some of 
the sorts are a little difficult to propagate; but, by a little perseverance, a 
novice will, in a short time, get the method of doing it. It was two years 
before I succeeded with any but the very common sorts ; but, by attention, 
and a determination to accomplish what I knew was done by others, I suc- 
ceeded in getting young plants from all those which I attempted to strike, 


+ Erica * Aitonidna, *ampullacea, assirgens, * Bowiedna, calycina, 
* cerinthdides, colorans, * echiiflora, élegans, empetroides, * gélida, * grandi- 
flora, Humedna, *Irbydna, Massoni, nigrita, *pildsa, pinea, Plukenetidna, 
puverulénta, pyramidalis, quadreeflora, regérminans, Saviledna, Sebana, 
tortuleeflora, * tricolor, * ventricésa, * vestita, * viridis. 

Vou. 1X.— No. 46. Ss 


626 Retrospective Criticism. 


with the exception of Z. tortulzeflora: this latter I have tried twice, but 
without success, but I did not put more than three or four cuttings in, 
each time. 

IT have been induced to trouble you with this communication, in the hope 
of inducing some of your readers to become growers of Cape heaths, feel- 
ing satisfied in my own mind that they may be cultivated with the same 
ease, and with less trouble, than is bestowed upon some plants much less 
interesting, and less worthy of notice. Should you be of opinion that the 
above observations are likely to forward such a result, you will, perhaps, 
be good enough to give them insertion in your Magazine, which will much 
oblige, yours, &c.— E. London, May 3. 1833. 

On exposing the Cape Heaths to the open Air of Britain during Summer 
and Autumn. — The following is the practice of Mr. Forbes, described in 
p- 275, 276. of his Hortus Woburnensis, noticed in p. 601. of the present 
Number. “ About the latter end of May, or beginning of June, the plants 
may be turned out of doors, and placed in a situation where they can have 
the benefit of the morning and evening sun, but sheltered from the westerly 
winds, and scorching effects of the sun’s rays in the middle of the day ; 
and arranged so as that a free circulation of air can readily pass among the 
whole collection, which will prevent their being drawn up m a weak or 
languid state, as is frequently the case when crowded. The scarcer and 
more delicate-growing sorts should be placed in a pit or frame, where they 
can also be shaded from the midday sun (by throwing a thin mat over the 
frame), and protected from heavy rains. If the autumn months are at 
all favourable, the plants may be left out of doors until the middle or latter 
end of October, when they should be all cleaned and replaced in the 
heath-house; but, if the season is wet, they will require to be taken into 
the house earlier, in order that they may be protected from the heavy rains, 
which would saturate the soil about their roots, and be injurious to the 
plants. When the heaths are taken into the heathery or green-house, they 
should have as large a portion of air given to them as the house will admit 
of, both night and day, which should never be excluded, except in frosty 
or cold and wet weather, when the heathery should be shut up at night, 
but reopened, if only for a couple of hours, in the middle of the day.” 

Mr. Whiddon’s Mode of cultivating Onions and Asparagus. (p. 323.) — 
I feel myself called upon to thank Mr. Whiddon for the information ad- 
dressed to me in his letter (p. 323.), and to remark that, had he, together 
with the description of his mode of cultivation, informed me philosophically 
of the reason and principle on which he recommends it, he would have 
conferred on me a greater favour; my object being to acquire knowledge 
grounded on sound principles. The peculiarity of Mr. Whiddon’s mode 
appears to me to consist in excluding atmospheric air and moisture from 
the roots, by treading the mould hard around the onion plants. I am a 
young man, and, of course, a young gardener, and may have been wrongly 
instructed ; but I have been taught to believe that the office of the roots is 
to absorb food in a fiuid or gaseous state from the soil, for the sustenance 
and nourishment of the plant. Let me ask, does the hard trampling of the 
soil assist or retard the production of such fluid or gaseous food in the 
soil; or does it better enable the root to takeitup? 1 should think, upon 
philosophical principles, that freely admitting atmospheric influence to the 
root, by occasionally stirring and loosening the soil with a hoe, would much 
better answer the purpose. I read in Dr. Lindley’s Outlines of the First 
Principles of Horticulture, that the exclusion of air from the roots will 
always induce an unhealthy condition in the plant, or even death itself. 
Dr. Lindley further states that “this may be one of the reasons why stiff 
tenacious soils are so seldom suited to the purposes of the cultivator ; until 
their adhesiveness has been destroyed by the addition of other matter.” 


Queries and Answers. 627 


Such seems to be the nature of the soil in which Mr. Whiddon planted his 
asparagus and onions. I must acknowledge that, for the benefit of both 
crops, I should have pursued a different plan from that followed by him. He 
describes the ground as being remarkably hard after the whole was com- 
pleted. If the above-quoted principles be true, Mr. Whiddon’s practice 
must be aberrant. 

He afterwards states that his crop was pulled up without attention being 
paid to any particular time or form, and still his crop was sounder and 
better than those of his neighbours. In this I think he must have been re- 
markably fortunate. I have ever found that the sound quality of the onion 
mainly depends upon the bulb being pulled up at the proper season, and 
afterwards well dried and ripened in the open air: to do which properly, 
much care and attention ought to be bestowed upon it. 

I cannot agree with Mr. Whiddon regarding the size of onions. I have 
generally found those of the larger size preferred, as being milder, and better 
in quality, than small ones. It is my employer’s desire that I should, and 
my ambition to, grow in his garden, fruits and vegetables of the largest size, 
as well as of the best quality. The wishes of another personage in the 
family must also be attended to by me. Our cook would scold and rate 
me soundly, were I to supply her with small onions instead of large ones, 
and might, perhaps, in her anger, throw them at my head, and call me a 
saucy youngster, for giving her the trouble of peeling half a dozen small 
onions, when one large one would have better answered the purpose. I 
must confess that in my short experience I have seen many small onions 
thrown into the pig-trough, but have never seen any large ones so wasted. 
I have likewise experienced that the large onions are sure to be the first 
picked out by the cook, if left to her discretion, and at the latter end of 
the season none are to be found in her stores but the small and refuse. 
I do not mean hereby to deny that small onions are useful in a family, 
but it is my pride to show my master, and his visiters, that I can grow 
large onions. 

Mr. Whiddon advises me to try as he has suggested, and says I shall 
find an advantage in time. Mr. Whiddon acknowledges in his paper that 
he is a young gardener: we are therefore both young gardeners. If his 
mode be correct, I have uselessly expended much time and labour in my 
vocation. Were I to have followed his plan of forming an asparagus bed 
by digging it only one spade’s depth, I should have saved myself much 
labour, for I have always been simple enough to prepare my asparagus beds 
by digging them at least three times that depth. He informs me that, for 
the purpose of keeping his tenacious soil open, he used coal ashes with the 
dung. I should have been simple enough to have searched the country 
over for drift-sand for that purpose; having been taught that coal ashes are 
injurious to the roots of vegetables. I wish his successor in the garden of 
J. B. Praed, Esq., would inform me of the size to which the asparagus 
heads on that bed grow; because I would certainly adopt Mr. Whiddon’s 
mode if it succeeded, in consequence of its saving so much labour and 
time. — J. Mitchell, jun., Gardener.  Slapton, near Dartmouth, Devon, 
June 26. 1833. 


Art. VI. Queries and Answers. 


TuE Accentuation of the Terms of Chemistry. (Vol. VIII. p. 735., 
Vol. IX. p. 122. 500.) — Sir, When I solicited you, in Vol. VIII. p. 735. 
or some of your learned correspondents, to insert in this Magazine a 
list of the chemical terms relating to horticulture, I ought, perhaps, to 
have said, chemical terms more immediately connected with gardening, 
and such a vocabulary as, but shorter than, that in the end of Ewing’s 

ss 2 


628 - Queries and Answers. 


Geography, without either the etymology or definition. One winter 
evening I began to make a list from Ure’ s Dictionary of Chemistry, of what 
appeared to. me “crack-jaw names,’ and marked them according to 
Walker’s Pronouncing Dictionary of the English Language. Well, I did 
not proceed far, before I found not a few of those terms not as yet 
Anglicised. From what Mr. Mallet has, in Vol. IX. p. 122., said, it 
would appear that he had supposed I wished the derivation of the words 
also: no, I could not expect so much. However, I am glad to learn from 
him, that a knowledge of chemistry can be acquired without the aid of the 
learned tongues ; but I suspect that that gentleman had been well founded 
in them before he studied chemistry, or, perhaps, learned both at the 
same time, To an ordinary English scholar, such words as caoutchouc, 
are “ kittle’’ words to pronounce. I believe we are told that ch from 
the Greek is generally pronounced hard, as in architecture, and from the 
French it is soft, as in chaise. Supposing these words were not anglicised, 
how are we to know ? By attending public lectures, where you may pick 
up these sort of things. Very g eood: but many must be content to peruse 
Sir H. Davy, Dr. Ure, &c., at ‘home. Had the latter gentleman added to 
his Dictionary a vocabulary y similar to the one in Ewing’s Geography, it 
would have made his book still more valuable. Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 
—W. Taylor, Thainston, May 29. 1833. 

Square-blown Bell-glasses.— Sir, 1 should feel greatly obliged if you 
would, through the medium of your Magazine, inform me of the place where 
T can obtain, : and the price of, square-blown glasses, 9 in. or 12 in. in length, 
and 6 in. or 8 in. wide, for striking Cape heaths or other exotic plants. — 
Juvenis. July, 1833. 

Millepedes.— I should be glad to know the best method of destroying 
monkey-pees [millepedes ?] in mushroom beds, as they appear to me to eat 
and destroy the spawn. — Id. 

What are the relative Degrees of Effect on Vegetation of the following, or 
any additional, Kinds of Manures § ?— Sir, The subject of manure is a very 
curious one, and not well understood, Which is the most powerful 
manure? It will be asked; do you mean on clay, or sand, or loam, or 
gravel? The reply is, let us take each, or any, or take all land generally ; 
and then, I ask, which is the most powerful manure? The following list 
(1 wish any one ‘would supply those which are omitted) contains the names 
of the principal manures now in use. The relative effects have never, as 
far as I know, been ascertained. If they have, I shall be obliged by inform- 
ation on the subject ; if they have not, I should be obliged by j your opinion ; 
and I hope some skilful person may be induced to make the requisite 
experiments, 


Lime," * Dung of poultry. Refuse of butchers’ 
Marl. Sugar skimmings. shops. 
Clay. Refuse of glue. Refuse of candle-ma- 
Vetches, &c. ploughed Shreds of leather. king. 

in. Shreds of rags. Street dirt. 
Horse-dung, fresh. Refuse cf soap-boiling. Urine (of man and ani- 
Horse-dung, old. Oil cake. mals). 
Cow-dung, fresh. Fish, Night soil, dry. 
Cow-dung, old. Malt dust. Night soil, not dry. 
Sheeps’ dung. Bones. Whale-blubber refuse. 
Pig’s dung. Road stuff. 


Now, all these things are known to be useful manures; yet some are 
much better than others, and contain in one hundred weight as much 
efficient matter as some of the others do in perhaps ten hundred weight. 
Now, a knowledge of their relative powers would not only be useful in 


Queries and Answers. 629 


regulating the quantity to be applied to a given field, but also in enabling 
the farmer to calculate which it would be most worth his while to carry 
home from market, or to purchase at a distance; the best of every kind of 
thing being, as is well known, always the best able to bear the expense of 
carriage.— An Enquirer. 

Lance’s Cottage Farmer, which we have noticed in p. 610., contains 
many remarks on manures, some of which, we think, would interest “ An 
Enquirer ;” but do not answer the specific questions here put by “ An 
Enquirer,” which we, with himself, hope some of our correspondents will 
answer. 

Mr, Whiddon solicited to communicate his Mode of taking Impressions of 
the Leaves of Plants. —Sir, A short time ago, a gardener, whose name is 
W. Whiddon, visited such gardens at Cheltenham as he could gain ad- 
mission to, and took impressions of leaves of plants: he left the method 
with some persons, who are unwilling to make it known. Should Mr. 
Whiddon see this, I hope it may induce him to lay before the lovers of 
botany, through the medium of the Gardener’s Magazine, his plan for 
taking impressions, which, by myself, and, I doubt not, by others, will be 
thankfully received. —J. Polleck. Market House, Cheltenham, Sept. 3. 
1833. 

For Mr. Polleck’s using, until Mr. Whiddon has communicated his 
mode, I will strive to describe a mode once taught me by a man who 
travelled and sustained himself by teaching it to the mistresses of pro- 
vincial schools, and any others who would pay him for disclosing it: he 
pretended to have learned it m India. The leaf-printing apparatus is 
made as follows, and only practice in using it can give expertness and 
delicacy of execution. Take two pieces of wash-leather, say of about 6 in. 
square; put upon the central part of the face of each, when laid flat upon 
a plane surface, a globular lump or tuft of wool, wadding, or what you 
will that is soft and elastic; enclose this by gathering the leather, not 
very tightly, by its corners over it, and tie these inseparably tight together. 
Your two balls, when made, will have an orbicular outline, and may have 
what diameter you please, that of mine was about three inches. Upon 
the bottom of an inverted saucer, &c., place a few pinches of the powder 
of the colour with which you design to print, and add to it enough of cold- 
drawn linseed oil to reduce it, with trituration by one of the balls, to 
the consistence of paint. With the ball so used transfer a thin coating of 
the prepared paint to the face of the other ball, and give the paint the 
refinement of a little additional trituration between the faces of the 
two; then interpose any leaf you like between them, and suffuse both its. 
faces by pressing both balls together upon it; the leaf is now ready to 
communicate, by pressure, a copy of its outline and veining, to any 
substance, as paper, &c., capable of receiving the paint, and will, if you 
please to apply paper, &c., to both its faces, give an impression from each 
at one pressing. If you print in black, you can colour parts, or the whole, 
according to nature afterwards. The leaf of Baddlea globosa L., that of 
the common culinary sage (Salvia officinalis Z.), and other wrmkled (rugose) 
leaves, are those which supply the most characteristic impressions. After 
all, no practical advantage seems derivable from this knowledge (the 
knowledge itself is very well), for dried specimens of leaves, and such 
other flat objects as one can take profiles of by means of it, are far more 
useful, and as easily prepared.— J. D. 

What is the Cause, or what are the Causes, of the “Lag”? in Timber ? — Sir, 
I happened, a few days ago, to fall into company with a party of gentlemen 
timber merchants, and, as a matter of course, timber was the pivot of 
conversation. It turned until it stuck in a lagged stick (as they call it) 
of timber, when the query arose, what is the cause of the lag? Some 

38 8 


630 Queries and Answers. 


said it was the frost that had frozen the sap, and a strong wind, rising at 
the time, of course split the tree; others said that a tree always split most 
when it had grown on wet ground; and another said that trees always 
lagged most when they had grown on high and dry ground, exposed to 
the strong west wind; and, in the end, “ne dicam dolo” [if 1 may speak 
the truth], 1 thought that they, like myself, knew very little about it. I 
therefore take the liberty of asking my uncle Agronome, or some other of 
your numerous correspondents, what is the real cause of the lag in timber. 
; am, Sir, yours, &c.— Agronome’s Nephew. Near Bewdley, August 25. 
833. 

What is the most profitable Mode of treating a Plantation of young Oak 
Trees, whose Stems are severally from 3in. to Vin. in Diameter ? — Sir, I 
hope that some correspondent will be kind enough to inform me what is 
the most profitable mode of treating a plantation of young oaks, of, say, 
about 3 in. to 7in. on the side [diameter]. I wish to know whether I 
should cut them down for bark (which is 8/. a ton), and keep them as 
coppice trees for cutting down for bark at from fifteen to twenty years’ 
growth, and reserve some of the trees; and at what distance the reserved 
ones should be left, so that, from the whole, a part of coppice and a part 
of permanent trees may be derived: or, if I should let them all stand to 
eome to useful timber? Does any cultivator of oaks approve of laying 
down branches from the old stools to increase the number of stools for 
coppices ? and, if he do, at what time of the year should this be done? Or 
does he prefer planting young trees for that purpose ? I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
—A Reader. 

Are the Elms in the Champs Elysées, Paris, of the same Species as those in 
St, James’s Park, London? —If they are, how does it happen that the 
former bear abundance of seed every year, and the latter very seldom ? — 
HI, A. Browne. Camberwell Grove, June 16. 1833. 

The Species of Hawthorn from South America, similar to the British Kind, 
only an Evergreen (about which Mr. Samuel Taylor enquires in p. 426.), 
I have no doubt, is the Crate‘gus stipulacea ; which was received by Mr. 
Young of Taunton, from the late Mr. R. Barclay of Bury Hill, under the 
specific name of mexicana. When struck from cuttings (and it strikes freely 
on a north border, under a hand-glass), it makes a very dwarfish bush ; 
but, when budded on stocks of the common hawthorn, I have known it 
attain the height of 5 ft. to 7 ft. the first year after the budding, producing © 
pendent lateral shoots all the way up the leader; and so forming a very 
ornamental plant, but not one calculated for fences, as it is nearly or quite 
spineless, and slender in its growth: nor does it always ripen the extremi- 
ties of the shoots sufficiently to enable it to resist our winters unhurt. I 
have no doubt Mr. Young would be happy to furnish Mr. Taylor with 
plants of any size, at a very moderate price, — Henry Laundy. Wood- 
bridge Nursery, Sept. 2. 1833. 

An Enquiry for the most perfect Mode of cultivating the Chimondnthus 
JSragrans, and the Green-house Kinds of Azalea. — I should esteem it a great 
favour from any correspondent, would he inform me of the best methods 
that I could pursue in the culture of Chimonanthus fragrans, both in the 
ground and in pots; the best soil, situation, the different modes of pro- 
pagation, &c. I have had it frequently in pots, both m a loam and peat 
soil, but it has always died with me. I observe, when planted out in the 
spring, the snails are remarkably fond of it. I should also like to be 
informed of the best mode of culture of Azalea indica and its different 
varieties ; and also of A. sinénsis; as to the best soil and situation, and as 
to shade or sun; whether they should be kept in the green-house or out 
during summer, &c.; the best time for cuttings of them striking root; and 
whether bottom heat is necessary, &c. I have grown my plants in peat. 


Queries and Answers. 631 


and white sand; but find them all very subject to die, except Azalea indica 
pheenicea, which thrives tolerably well with me.— fF. F. 

Where can the true Clove Pink, Yellow Carnation, and Yellow Pink be 
obtained ? — J. R. 

By what Means can the Cherimoyer (Anona Cherimélia Mil., Anona tri- 
pétala Lk.) be induced to bearits Fruit in a British Hot-house ? — Ihave a 
fine plant growing in my hot-house, in a border separated from the tan pit. 
It showed a good deal of bloom last year ; some of which fell off without 
opening, and the rest soon after having expanded : however, as it was the 
first time of its showing any blossom, I reconciled myself to the disap- 
pointment. This year, early in the spring, the plant was covered with 
bloom buds, which chiefly fell off before any foliage appeared. For some 
time the plant has now been in fine foliage, and a constant succession of 
fresh healthy-looking flowers have appeared; but, either in the bud, or just 
after expansion, they, with their peduncles, all fall off at the point of junc- 
tion of the peduncle with the branch. There is still a good deal of bloom 
coming forward upon the plant, and it is altogether in a very healthy and 
luxuriant state. My gardener has tried various plans with it; he has 
watered it both sparingly and freely. The heat of the house in which it 
grows is that which is required for the pine-apple. I shall feel extremely 
obliged to any one who will kindly favour me with any information as to 
the mode of fruiting this plant. — P. D. Liverpool, Aug. 17. 1833. 

A picture of this species is given in Curtis’s Botanical Magazine, t. 2011.; 
but we are not aware that any information is supplied there relevant to 
P. D’s query. — J. D. 

Additional Facts on the Turnip Fly, Flea, or Beetle. — In addition to the 
information on this insect, which (in p. 505.) we have endeavoured to sup- 
ply in answer to the query of J. C. Farmer, in p. 504. and 505., we have 
now the pleasure to quote, from the fourth number of the Entomological 
Magazine (published July, 1833), or vol. i. p. 365, 366., the following 
facts. They are from an interesting communication, expressly on the turnip 
fly, by Rusticus of Godalming ; from whose most excellent communications 
on other insects generally troublesome, we have already placed extracts, 
in p. 334. and p. 442., before our readers. In the present case, we only 
copy from Rusticus’s essay that part of it which describes the course he 
pursued to discover the cause of this insect’s appearing, or rather its 
erub’s appearing, just so as to “ commence its attack on the turnip 
directly it is up, devouring the two cotyledons and the little heart; and 
sometimes, in a few days, leaving the field as brown as the day it was 
sowed.” We recommend to imitation, in every similar case, the cautious 
care with which Rusticus executed his experiments : — “I first sowed 
some seeds in a flower-pot, with earth out of my garden: it produced the 
animal in abundance. Secondly, I enclosed the pot with pasteboard and 
canvass, with the same success; but there was still a possibility of the 
enemy getting in, as [had not made the cover sufficiently close. Thirdly, 
I made a light frame, about 8 in. square, covering it with very fine 
silk gauze, and carefully stopping the crevices of the door with pasted 
paper; and round the pot, where the cover was fastened on to it, with 
putty; so that there was now no possibility of any thing coming to it from 
without : yet this experiment was attended with the same success. How- 
ever, one point, that is, a negative point, was now proved; namely, that 
the fly did not come to the turnip from other plants: this was a point 
gained. Fourthly, I baked the earth in a cast-iron pot over the fire; and 
used no water to water the seed but such as I had boiled myself, applying 
it at the bottom of the pot in a common feeder [or shallow earthen pan] ; 
then I used the same care, and took the same precautions as before: I did 
not take off the cover until the plants were of a considerable size, and I 

ss 4 


- 


632 London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


found them all a-hop with beetles. I had now made another step. That 
the beetle did not come from other plants, [ had found before ; but now it 
was clear that it was not in the earth or in the water. Fifthly, with a lens 
1 examined the seed, and found on it anumber of white flattish substances 5 
some seeds were without any; but there were generally one, two, three, 
four, and, in one instance, five, ona single seed. These I concluded to be 
eggs; and thought that the only way now left me was to attack them: it 
would have been easy enough to have poked them off with a needle, but I 
could not see how I was to employ a needle and a magnifying glass on a 
sack of turnip seed. I recollected, however, that I had found that some 
salt and water, into which I had once unintentionally dropped a paper of. 
silkworms’ eggs, had killed them to an egg: it was, therefore, worth trying 
in this case. I accordingly made some pretty strong brine, and soaked the 
seeds in it for twenty-four hours, and then dried it thoroughly; and, with 
all the precautions I have mentioned above, I sowed it again, and with a 
kind of success: there was not a single fly, but neither was there a turnip. 
Nothing discouraged at this, I tried again and again; and I found that, 
without weakening the brine, if the seeds were only kept in it three hours, 
there were no beetles: but yet the seeds came up as well as ever. I now 
practise this with turnip seed, cabbage seed, and, in fact, with the seeds of 
all the cruciform flowering plants in common cultivation (all of them being 
equally infested by the beetle), and with very satisfactory success. I can- 
not say that I never find beetles on the young plants; but never have a 
crop destroyed, or even seriously injured, by them. The whole of the 
experiments mentioned above were made on the Swede turnip; which, I 
find, is generally more infested by these beetles than any of our older 
sorts.” (Rusticus of Godalming, in the Entomological Magazine, July, 1833.) 


Art. V. London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


JULY 16. 1833.— Read. A communication on the cultivation of the 
Chlidanthus fragrans ; by R. W. Byres, Esq. 

Exhibited. Acanthus spindsus, from Mr. Joseph Kirke. Thirty-two . 
seedling varieties of heartsease, from J.J. Allnatt, Esq., an amateur 
florist at Wallingford. A collection of georginas, from Messrs. Chandler, 
Nurserymen, Vauxhall. A collection of roses, including Rosa multiflora, 
white-flowered, Champney’s rose, &c., and of other flowers, from Mrs. 
Marryatt. Four Fuchsie globose, heartsease, and georginas, from Mr. 
George Glenny, F.H.S. A collection of georginas, from Mr. John Maher. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Flowers: Quisqualis indica, Ges- 
neria rutila; Lupinus ornatus, mutabilis, and rivularis ; Salpigldssis integri- 
folia Hook., which is Nierembérgia pheenicea of D.Don; Clarkia élegans ; 
Calochértus spléndens, ldteus, albus, venistus, and pulchéllus; Calliprora 
flava; Brown-flowered nasturtium or Tropz‘olum majus var. atrosangui- 
neum: Salvia Grahami and folidsa, Fachsza virgata, Coreopsis lanceolata and 
Atkinsonidna, Cacalia coccinea, Gnothera densiflora and speciosa, Asclepias 
bombycina, Macleaya cordata (see p. 565.), Spirae‘a arizfolia, Digitalis 
ferruginea, Zinnia élegans, Malva miniata, Calampelis scabra; Rosa 
fndica Pallavicini, indica fragrans, indica sanguinea, rubifolia, and Champ- 
neydna, White China rose, Wells’s Noisette rose, and rose Clare; Chelone 
nemorosa‘and barbata; Pentstémon ruber, pulchéllus, and réseus (hybrid), 
raised by the Hon. and Rev. William Herbert; georginas, hollyhocks, 
and hybrid pentstemons (between Pentstémon pulchéllus and P. atropur- 
pureus). Fruit: Muscat Robert pear, Blanquet petit pear, Muscat de 
-Nancy, or Aurate pear, abundant bearers as standards, of little merit 
besides earliness; Spring Grove Codlin apple, figured in the Horticultural 


> 


- Mag BRIE coe 
a> ; a es 


London Horticultural Society and Garden. 633 


Transactions, vol. i. and ii., accompanied with an account by Sir Joseph 
Banks; it is the result of one of Mr. Knight’s judicious hybridising mix- 
tures ; a valuable early sauce apple, fit for use from July till the beginning 
of September. Sir Joseph Banks’s friends agreed that they had not met 
with any autumn apple, which, for baking, could be compared with this. 

August 6.— Read. A communication on the destruction of insects in 
gardens ; by Sir George S. Mackenzie, Bart. 

Exhibited. Collection of picotees and carnations grown by Mr. Everett, 
gardener to W. Leveson Gower, Esq. F.H.S., Titsey Place. A collection 
of georginas, from Mr. John Maher. Dried fruit of a Cactus, and of a 
species of Platanus, from Miss Martineau. A large collection of German 
stocks, from Mr. Hopwood of Twickenham. A large collection of German 
stocks, from Messrs. Rollisson, Nurserymen, Tooting. A collection of 
georginas, from Mr. T. Hogg, Paddington. O’xalis Pidtte, collection of 
flowers of roses and of other plants, from Mrs. Marryat. English pi- 
cotees, heartsease, and georginas, from Mr. Glenny, F.H.S. Grapes from 
Mr. John Wilmot, F.H.S., and a specimen of a bird trap, from T. A. 
Knight, Esq. 

From the Garden of the Society. Flowers: Lupinus ornatus, Calceolaria 
rugosa latifolia, Herbertiana, latifolia angustifolia; Salvia angustifolia, 
Madia élegans, Salpigléssis integrifolia, Brown-flowered Nasturtium or 
Tropz‘olum majus var. atropurptreum, hybrid pentstemons, Clarkia 
élegans, Desmodium canadénse, Glycine sinénsis, Catananche cerilea 
var. bicolor, Phléx élegans, Rosa indica centifolia, indica sapérba, Rose 
Bougainville, Noisette, Wells’s Noisette, double red Noisette, georginas, and 
Swiss georginas. Pine-apples: Buck’s seedling, Blithfield queen. Fruit 
of Gaulthéria Shdllon. Apples: Red Astrachan, Oslin, Calville rouge 
d’été, Calville blanche d’été; Large yellow bough, received with various 
names from America; it is likely to prove a valuable, handsome, early 
apple, either for the dessert or kitchen use ; Duchess of Oldenburgh, 
from a very young tree on French paradise stock. 

August 20.— Read. A communication on the growth of the striped 
Hoosainee melon; by G. J. Towers, Esq. 

puhibited. Double-flowered Antirrhinum majus, from J. Church, Esq. 
A melon from Richard Brook, Esq. A collection of plants, and a melon 
from Mr. Green, gardener to Sir E, Antrobus; the plants were Petunia 
integrifolia or Nierembérgia pheenicea D. Don, Pancratium amce‘num 
and specidsum, Amaryllis sp., seedling fuchsias, Thunbérgia alata, Tre- 
virana coccinea or Cyrflla pulchélla, balsams, and cockscombs; hybrid 
Calceolaria. Java peach, or Flat peach of China, Wheatear carnations, 
Magnolia grandiflora, and a collection of apples, from Mr. Joseph Kirke, 
consisting of the following sorts:— Kirke’s Duchess of ,Oldenburgh, 
Manks codling, Kerry pippin, Early quarrenden, or Sack apple, Haw- 
thornden, Maddock, Nameless, Transparent crab, Scarlet crab, Siberian 
crab. A newly invented fruit-gatherer, from Mr. Thompson (Lloyd’s 
Coffee-house). A collection of seedling heartsease, from Mr. E. Brown. 
Fruit of a Caméllia, from John Allnutt, Esq. 

From the Garden of the Society. Flowers: Madia élegans ; Pentstémon 
Richardson#, campanulatus, and roseus; hybrid pentstemons, Zinnza élegans 
and élegans coccinea, G¥nothera macrocarpa, Cladanthus arabicus; A’ster 
tenéllus, sp. sent home by Mr. Douglas; Helianthus lenticularis, Chelone 
obliqua and glabra, Trachymeéne czrulea; Brown-flowered nasturtium or 
Trope‘olum majus var. atropurptreum, Verbena chameedrifolia, Lupinus 
mutabilis, rivularis, and ornatus; Calampelis scabra, Escallonia montevi- 
dénsis, Magnolia grandifiora yar. pree‘cox d’ Andry, China asters, Calceolaria 
viscosissima, rugosa, integrifolia angustifolia, sanguinea, and pulchélla ; 
Russélia sp. (Otto), Salvia psetido-coccinea, cardinalis, Grahami, and an- 
gustifolia; Blumenbachia insignis, Fachsta virgata, Phacélia sp. (Douglas), 


634 Covent Garden Market. 


Chelone barbata, Salpigléssis integrifolia Hook. [which is Nierembérgia 
D. Don), Solanum pinnatifidum, sp. from Mexico ; georginas, 
combs, from Mr. Samuel Hodges, Cheltenham; Hibiscus Manihot, and 
Pears: English caillot rosat, a good early 


French marigold. — Fruit. 


standard pear; Deux tétes, French jargonelle. 


cocks- 


Apples : Summer gilli- 


flower, Rose, Golden pippin, Thorle, Devonshire quarrenden ; Tetofsky, 
a handsome Russian apple, from the Taurida imperial garden; Oslin. 
Plums: Superior green gage, an American sort; although a very good 
plum, yet not superior to ‘the green gage; Mirabelle petite, its merit is 
for preserving; Diaprée rouge; Nectarine, from a standard, it is very apt 
to lose its bloom; Goliath; Bifére, fruit green and others quite ripe are 
on the same branch ; Russian globe pine-apple. 


ART. VI. 


The Cabbage Tribe. £ os. 


Cabbage, per lena 
White - 5 
Red - - 
Plants or Coleworts = 
Cauliflowers, per dozen - 
Broccoli, Purple, per bunch 


Legumes. 
Kidneybeans, per half sieve 


i) 
— 
[o>) 


Tubers and Roots. 
per ton 
Potatoes. - $ per ewt. 
per bushel 
Jerusalem LORS per 
half sieve 
Turnips, White, per bunch 
Carrots, per bunch - 
Red Beet, per dozen > 
Horseradish, per bundle - 
Radishes : 
Red, per dozen hands 
QA to 30 each) 
White and Red Turnip, 
per bunch = 00 2 


The Spinach Tribe. 
: per sieve es 
Spinach ee half sieve - 
Sorrel, per half sieve - 


The Onion Tribe. 


Onions, per bushel - - 

For pickling, per 3 sieve 
Leeks, per dozen bunches 
Garlic, per pound so 
Shallots, per pound - - 


Asparaginous Plants, 
Salads, &c. 


Artichokes, per dozen - 
Lettuce, per score: 
Cos - - é 
Cabbage 
Celery, per bundle (2 to 15) 
Small Salads, per punnet 
Burnet, per bunch = 


Pot and Sweet Herbs. 


Parsley, per half sieve - 
Tarragon, per doz. bunches 
Fennel, per dozen bunches 
Thyme, per dozen bunches 
Sage, per dozen bunches - 
Mint, per dozen bunches - 
Peppermint, per doz. bunch. 
Marjoram, per doz. bunches 
Savory, per dozen bunches 
Basil, per dozen bunches 
Rosemary, per doz. bunches 
Tansy, per dozen bunches 


a 


wWrRoOOCrF wWo 
Acwwo ONO 


=) ooooo oojo 
fo) 
No) 


eco 
Hon 
coon 


ocooco 
COPFR?S9 
AASCAD 


coooo oO 
CwoRrRorF Ls>) 
mMOOCOom 


bie 


oocoococoeocsecy“e 
Ido Co tO GCoOtO LO tO COLO Be 
Soocoonocncocosco 


Covent Garden Market. 


To From 
S. 


_ Stalls and Fruits for Tarts, 
Pickling, &c. 
PViesetable Marrow, per doz. 
Gourds, per dozen - 
Tomatoes, per half sieve 
Capsicums, per hundred : 

Green - - a 
Red = 2 o 4 


Edible Fungi and Fuci. 


Morels, dried, per pound -|1 0 0 
Truffles, per pound: 
English o = 014 0 
Foreign Oo 8 - |016 0 


Fruits. 

| Apples, Dessert, per bushel : 

Kerry Pippin = = 

Ribston Pippin - 

Nonesuch - s 

| Yellow Ingestrie 

| Baking, per bushel 

| Pears, Dessert, per 3 sieve: 

0 0 3]; Summer Bergamot - 

Knevett’s Seedling = - 

Bon Chrétien = c 
Baking, per half sieve 

| Peaches, per dozen - 

| Nectarines, per dozen - 

Apricots, per dozen - 

| Almonds, per peck = 

| Plums, Dessert, per 3 sieve 
Coe’s Golden Drop, Ber 

punnet - 

Baking, per 3 sieve - 

| Damsons 2 

| Mulberries (per gallon @ 
pottles) - 

| Berberries, per half sieve 

| Elderberries, per bushel - 

| Currants, dessert, p. punnet 

| Walnuts, per pushel - 

| Filberts, English, p. 100 lbs 

| Hazel Nuts, per peck 

| Pine- apples, per pound - 

| Grapes, per pound: 
Hot-house - - 
From the open wall - 


cocoso t 
tO Go Co RS 
aAonog & 

oo coco 

TR BRR 

So one 


So 
No) 
o>) 


BeOOM who 


ocooocoo Cor 
SOTRDR WOO 


tO G9 tO B Co 


(=) 
rary 
S 


ooo 

to) 

woe 
Soooggonco SARDOD 


Go NTO 0D ee 89 09 09 


csoo 
RPOOH 
292 


oo 


oooco co 

CURR 

woas”n 2 
— 


| Figs, per dozen = 
| Melons, per pound 
Cucumbers : 
+ Te per hundred 
Pickling ee thousand 
/per dozen - 
per hundred 


iemone perdozen - 


| per hundred 
| Brazil Nuts, per bushel - 


Barcelona, per peck - 


ry 


} 
| Oranges 


rm 
CO BRONR CR RHO DGHOBRMGWO rtor 


ececesesso SCSSOS9O SOWOCSOSCSOSD cOoOso cOoSoCoCoCeoOoSCSo CCoOoOoOO 


SeoeSeocoscsod SAAD ACSOARSOHN AGS 


eccocecoocosd 
eoococ“eooek oor 
eceoece|ec“|ocsocoogn 


SVe) (=e 


oo © 


eoeoersoo SCCOooO SCOoOROCOSCOSSDO coo coco SoCoCeoO oceocoS 


To 


ry 


— 


=a 
ODOC 


f=) aor COWo 


oo 


©9 S109 Or 


Gocor 10090909 69 Co 


oH RFWOCID HHORnNW LOO 


.|& s. d. 


on ooo 


coo oO 


ASD CcCOoOCoocensco coascS 


SSSSoSoSCON MOOD SwWCCSCOOS 


\ 
' 
ry 


Obituary. 635 


Observations. — The prevalence of hot dry weather through the month 
of August has kept our market short in supply of vegetables, especially 
turnips, cabbages, and coleworts, which, since the rain, begin to be sent 
rather more generally, but by no means abundantly; the prices are con- 
sequently moderate. The supply has been generally good and regular, 
with a corresponding demand : in some instances the prices have been low, 
but generally fair. We have had an excellent supply of Williams’s sum- 
mer bon chrétien, of excellent quality, and at reasonable prices. Jargo- 
nelles were not so good a crop. Knevett’s new seedling has been in 
moderate supply, considering the limited extent of its growth at this time. 
Plums have been a fair, but not a general or heavy, crop: they have been 
brought to market steadily, and in excellent condition. Damsons are a 
middling crop; they have been much in demand, at very good prices. The 
crop of walnuts is most abundant, and now coming to market freely; 
notwithstanding which, we have received large quantities from Holland, 
they being somewhat earlier ripe than ours: they have been disposed of 
very readily at a remunerating price to the importers. 

Our prospects for the winter supply have been materially improved by 
the late warm showers, which will necessarily encourage the growth of all 
vegetables, although the growers have been put to heavy expenses in keep- 
ing their seed-beds watered, for the necessary purposes of transplanting. 
Turnips, since the rain, begin to promise a good but a late supply. The 
potato crop is considered to be short, not only from the prevalence of dry 
weather, but from the circumstance of the sets not having planted well 
through the season ; in many instances, the crop has proved a failure, and 
has been ploughed up. Our markets are now so generally furnished by 
water from all parts of the country, that we are almost at all times sure of 
a good supply; so that it is not likely they will average more than a me- 
dium price. Onions have been generally harvested well; the crop but 
moderately productive as to quantity, the bulbs being generally small, from 
the prevalence of drought; but they are well ripened. The crop of apples 
has been very good, but, in consequence of the heavy winds, a large pro- 
portion has been blown off, and consumed for cider; consequently, our 
supplies have not been so heavy as expected: the prices have increased 
lately, and promise to continue steady; so that the growers will, I hope, 
have no reason to complain.—- G. C. Sept. 17. 1833. 


Art. VII. Odztuary. 


DIED, in the afternoon of Saturday, August 24. 1833, Adrian Hardy 
Haworth, Esq., at his residence, 10. Salamanca Terrace, Queen’s Elm, 
Little Chelsea; aged 66 years. He was enjoying his usual health, and 
watering his favourite plants, at seven o’clock in the evening of August 
the 23d, when he was seized with malignant cholera, and died between 
three and four o’clock in the afternoon of the 24th. The loss of a man 
so diligent in useful services to entomology and botany would, under any 
circumstances, be felt with sensations of sincere regret, by all those who 
take pleasure in pursuing these sciences; but the loss of him, so sudden 
and unexpected, at a time when many of us were anticipating the pleasure 
and advantage of deriving many more lessons of instruction from his 
labours and kind communications, is painfully appalling. 

In relation to the acts of Mr. Haworth’s life, I present from vol. 11. 
p- 11. and 12. of Faulkner’s Historical and Topographical Description of 
Chelsea and its Environs, published in 1829, the following succinct account 
of them : — 

“ By indefatigable industry in investigating, and by critical acumen in 


636 Obituary. 


distinguishing the various objects of natural history, everlasting obligations 
have been conferred upon the admirers of the sister sciences, entomology 
and botany; and the ample and affectionate testimonials from scientific 
institutions, both foreign and of this country, spontaneously conferred 
upon Mr. Haworth, are convincing proofs that his labours have been duly 
appreciated by the philosophical “and learned world, both at home and 
abroad.” 

-“ The museum contains about forty thousand insects, arranged in 
beautiful and systematic order, in cabinets of peculiar construction ; with 
a select collection of crustacea, radiata, coralline, fishes, &c.; about 
twenty thousand dried plants, arranged in natural orders and glued; and 
a considerable collection of living succulent plants.” 

“ During a period of more than thirty years, Mr. Hao has con- 
tributed lar gely to various entomological and botanical works, and has 
been honoured by having a genus and species called after his name.” [In 
botany there are the genus Haworthia, closely allied to the genus A’loé, 
and Mesembr yanthemum Hawé6rthz, and, doubtless, others: in entomo- 
logy others. — J. D.] 

“« Among his most important works may be mentioned [I place what 
supplementary information I possess between crotchets. — J. D.]: — 

“ Observations on the genus Mesembryanthemum, 8vo, 1794. [was out 
of print as early as 1828.) The first part of Lepidoptera Britannica, 1803 ; 
finished in the fourth part, in 1828, 8vo. [Second part, in 1809; third, in 
1811; and the fourth and last part, with index, in all about 610 pages, in 
April, 1828. Wood, in the Strand, is the bookseller who is the proprietor 
of it]. Miscellanea Naturalia, adjoined to [the first part of] the last work, 
but separately paged [1803, but was out of print as early as 1828]. The 
sixth volume of Andrews’s Botanist’s Repository, 4to, 1803. [? 1804.] 
Synopsis Plantarum Succulentarum, 8vo, 1812. Supplementum Plan- 
tarum Succulentarum, 8vo, 1819. Narcissorum Revisio, adjoined to the 
last work, but separately paged, 1819. [the price of the two, together, is 
10s. 6d.] Revisiones Plantarum Succulentarum, 8vo, 1821. Saxifrage- 
arum Enumeratio, adjoined to the last work, but separately paged, 1821. 
[the price of the two, together, is 10s. 6d. Thirty-one communications to 
Taylor’s Philosophical Mag gazine, since September, 1823. Narcissinearum 
Monographia, appended to the twenty-fifth number of the second series of 
Sweet’s British Flower-Garden ; but, subsequently, a second edition of the 
Monographia, corrected and augmented, has been published separately, in 
an octavo pamphlet, price 2s. 6d.: see a notice of the work in the Gar- 
dener’s Magazine, Vol. VII. p. 479, 480. and Vol. VIII. p. 212. A new 
arrangement of the double-flowered Chinese chrysanthemums, with an 
improved method of cultivating them, in the Gardener's Magazine for 
April, 1833, Vol. EX. p. 218—226.] 

“« Also various contributions to the Linnzan Society, the Horticultural 
Society [see his excellent, for the time, paper on the crocuses, in the first 
volume of the Hort. Trans.], and the Entomological Society; to all which 
Mr. Haworth belongs; and has had the honour to receive [in 1826] 
gratuitously (and altogether unsolicited by him) diplomas for fellowship in 
the Cesarean Society of Natural History at Moscow, and [in 1828, 
previously to August 24.] of the Société Royale d’Horticulture des Pays 
Bas. 

“ One of Mr. Haworth’s earliest pieces appears to have been a Botanical 
History of Rhus Toxicodendron, published in the first edition of Dr. 
Alderson’s medical essay on that plant, in 1793. [This was Mr. Haworth’s 
first attempt (as he himself expressed it to me) in print, but he had 
previously helped Steel to some useful hints for his Hssay on Gardening, 
but had desired his name to be concealed.] 


Obituary. re 637 


I have now the pleasure to add some extracts from letters from Mr. 
Haworth to myself, respecting plants, which, I trust, will prove both 
agreeable and useful to my brother gardeners, and neither derogatory to 
the memory of Mr. Haworth, nor to my own reputation for the liberty I 
take in thus publishing them. i 

Accuracy in the application of the names of plants (and of all other 
things) is ever most desirable, as by means of it ideas past, present, and 
to come, can be definitely associated with the objects of them: not with- 
out it. To apply the names of plants accurately, expensive facilities are 
requisite, as numerous botanical books, and pictures, and specimens of 
plants. Provincial botanic gardens can rarely afford to supply these. The 
Bury St. Edmunds botanic garden could not. In this case my indulgent 
employer, N. 8. Hodson, Esq. A.L.S. &c., superintendent of this garden, 
favoured my soliciting Mr. Haworth to enter into correspondence with 
me, for the purpose of authenticating the names of any species, of the 
accuracy in the application of whose names I might feel any doubt. 
I made, accordingly, the application to Mr. Haworth: this was done in 
about May 31. 1828. He consented quickly: I shortly afterwards de- 
spatched the first packet of specimens to him, and, on June 24. 1828, I 
had the pleasure of receiving Mr. Haworth’s first letter on technicalities. 
From him I received, in all, nineteen; and although these were professedly 
on the technicalities of nomenclature, and so cannot be expected to be 
very interesting to gardening readers generally, they yet contain, here and 
there, notices and remarks which I conceive may be so. I present the 
following extracts (Mr. Haworth had underlined the words which are 
here given in italics) :— 

First technical Letter, received on June 24. 1828.— This consisted of 
the names of those specimens which I had sent without names, correct 
names for those which I had sent with erroneous names, references to the 
books and authors with whose descriptions Mr. Haworth had compared 
and identified the specimens I had sent, &c. In addition to all these 
things was the following remark : —“ Every fresh specimen is most welcome 
to my large herbarium, which is probably about twenty-thousand species 
strong; and should you send me other parcels, I shall always be thankful 
for any new or rare things added, with the hope of their being useful 
to my herbarium, and so shall I feel rewarded for the trouble of exa- 
mination.” 

Second Letter, July 17. 1828.— A long one, replete with scientific 
information. 

Third Letter, received July 2. 1828.— It contained, besides technical 
information, most excellent advice, in reply to a request for it, on the 
arrangement of, and points of information to be embraced within, a second 
edition of the catalogue of the plants in the Bury garden, which Mr. 
Hodson then contemplated publishing: it has not, however, yet been 
published. The following incidental remark occurred in this letter ;— 
“ James Don, of the Cambridge Botanic Garden, was my old friend, 
whom I visited almost annually up to his death: he had very few plants 
he did not spare me a specimen of; I have very many wild ones, and I 
have gathered still more in the London gardens, although of late years far 
fewer than before. Hence your offer of sending me specimens of the 
newly introduced species is very acceptable.” 

Fourth Letter, received August 3. 1828. —“ I have the honour of cor- 
responding with the Prince de Salm Dyck, at Dyck, in Prussia.” [See 
Gardener’s Magazine, Vol. IX. p. 460.) . . . . . “ The Revisiones 
Plantarum Succulentarum do not contain all the plants of my other works, 
but chiefly new species, or improved locations, or accounts of old ones.” 
- .... . After this follows, in your letter, Mr. Hodson’s kind 


638 Obituary. 


intention, of complimenting me, by making me an honorary member of the 
Bury botanic garden. I beg of you to say to him, I feel exceedingly 
obliged by so flattering a compliment, and that I will endeavour to prove 
myself worthy of it.” . . . “Now, Sir, here end all your 
queries, you have truly in this multum in parvo —but my eyes ache, and 
we must have larger paper in future.” 

Fifth Letter, received August 24. 1828.—“ As an old botanist, I love 
most dearly my first sight ‘of a plant that is new to me. And as your 
object is to send chiefly things that quite puzzle you, a few must appear 
riddles to me, and I shall have, or have had, all the pleasure of solving 
them. Besides, every packet is a sort of lottery, in which any new plant 
is a prize! Hence you will see my zeal is at least equal to your own. 
I once was near joining with a public botanic garden here, and I much 
regret it fell to nothing. Alas! we have now not one public botanic garden 
left near the metropolis of this rich kingdom ; and yet I think such a thing 
would pay well. . . . Paper’s short, —now aid me, spirit of clearness 
and brevity!” . . . . “ About some of your specimens I will decide in 
November or December next; when I propose incorporating all my more 
newly acquired specimens with the glued ones; and when many of your 
well-grown examples will be added, to amend or extend the collection ; 
in which every specimen is acknowledged from whom, or what garden, it 
came ; and when, as far as possible. “T have been about 40 years amass- 
ing them. A few odd ones were even gathered still earlier, when I was 

a boy. I was a gardener, practically, at seven years old.” . 

“ | will prove any crocuses, colchicums, or any other hardy bulbs you 
like to send, as I know them ‘well, am fond of them, have grown most of 
them, and now have many.” . . 2 © You say you know Mr. 
Thomas Bridges, who is gone to Chile. If you, or any of your very 
intimate friends, are writing to him, please to say to him, I will buy 
specimens of plants of him on his return. I told him I should only buy 
insects. And now botany takes up so much of my time, I shall, perhaps, 
drop entomology. 

Sixth Letter, dated October 29. 1828.—“ The delays you apologise 
for have, I fear, infected me with delaying likewise.” $ 

“ Mem. I actually inspect and examine every page and plate referred 
to, so that you may safely prind any you like to publish.” 

Seventh Letter, dated November 29. 1828.“ I have near 20 species 
of Hryngium in my herbarium.” . . “TI have glued down, almost 
always, at least a portion, often the whole, of every number you have sent ; 
for, as Mr. Hodson has thought me worthy of being one of your honorary 
members, I feel it my duty ¢ to authenticate, at all times hereafter, every 
thing in my power concerning your garden, and my herbarium will prove 
the names (should the plants: die) of all you have sent to me, together 
with their locations, durations, and periods of bloom.” 

Eighth Letter, dated December 13., received December 16. 1828, — 

se Having stitched all your letters chronologically together.” 
[This extract may seem not worth giving, but it shows that Mr. Haworth 
applied system even to his correspondence. = DP pots ye pa eNO 
Sweet, to whom I showed your plant, when it was alive’... : 
“I must have (in herbarium) above threescore species of G@nothéra.” 

: . © O’xalis corniculata a Linn. Sp. Pl. is the original British 
kind, and I obtained British roots of it, about 40 years ago (where native 
I know not), from Mr. Knowlton, the grandson of old Thomas Knowlton, 
who was gardener to Sherard when the celebrated Hortus Elshamensis 
was compiling. I had also the Dillenian mesembryanthemums, from the 
same source, and through Oxford gardens, where Dillenius was professor.” 

7 he eel Love the Oxalides” . . . . I have now answered 


Obituary. 639 


your numerous questions; and, happy in being thus instrumentally useful 
towards the welfare of a beautiful science, I am, with very respectful com- 
pliments to Mr. Hodson, yours, &c. 

Ninth Letter, dated March 27. 1829. —“ As to the Croci and Narcissi, 
you gave me in autumn; they have, perhaps, done a good thing, in actually 
stimulating me to re-examine all my own lately much neglected collection 
of hardy bulbs (a very good one); to reprint their labels and set them 
to rights.” . . . . . “Ifyou have flowers of any other hardy bulbs, 
that you wish examined this season by me, I will settle any such you 
like to send.” 

Tenth Letter, received May 24. 1829, dated May 20.— Contains an 
abundance of technical information, and as much pleasantry as technicalities 
admit, and the following observation, which will show that Mr. Haworth’s 
spirit was not of the imperious and self-sufficient kind : —“ Saxifragee want 
again revising. I have reduced them too much, owing to my good friend 
Mr. Bree’s sending me many wild British ones, and saying he thought 
them varieties ; but he afterwards candidly told me, he picked out strange 
specimens to puzzle me.’ [Mr. Haworth’s work on the species of Saxi- 
fraga and the allied genera, which is entitled Saxifragearum Enumeratio, 
is dedicated to the Rev. W. T. Bree*, Allesley Rectory, near Coventry, 
Warwickshire.— J. D.] 

‘Eleventh Letter, received June 16. 1829.—“ I prefer moderate-sized 
specimens to large ones, if from a garden, but I collect the finest wild ones 
Ican” . . . . . “ But Iam so hurried and overwhelmed just now 
with (voluntary) business, attending several sales, watering plants in pots, 
for I have no gardener, &c.”. . . . . “Ihave just been to Mr. 
Sweet’s, about two miles off, who showed me the figure of ye 

Twelfth Letter, July 6. 1829.“ I have given up purchasing insects, 
and shall in future devote my leisure to botany and gardening.” 

Thirteenth Letter, July 27. 1829. —“ I was out for eight or ten days 
when your specimens arrived, but Mrs. Haworth (who is fond of plants) 
had, by my return, made excellent dried specimens of them.” A 

« A new green-house, or hardy succulent, is very welcome to me. So, 
too, would more tender ones be, could I afford to build a stove; but ‘ all 
men cannot do all things.’ ” 

Sixteenth Letter, September 29. 1829.—[I had at this time, a con- 


* I cannot allow myself to fear Mr. Bree’s disapproving the liberty I 
take in introducing here some extracts from a letter lately received from 
him: it is dated September 3. 1833, and was not written for publication. 
“ T was exceedingly shocked, on receiving my Magazine of Natural History 
[the number for September] yesterday, to see announced on the cover the 
death of my poor friend Haworth: half an hour afterwards, I got your 
packet containing Mr. Main’s confirmation of the melancholy event, and 
to-day’s post brought me a letter from his son, with the same sad in- 
telligence. Though he was now advanced in years, I had hoped to enjoy 
his friendship and agreeable correspondence for some time to come: but 
God’s will be done! The last letter I had:from my friend bears date only 
the 25th of July, and it accompanied a large collection of cuttings of all 
his spareable Chinese chrysanthemums, which have hardly yet taken root. 
I shall long and deeply feel hisloss. . . . . . . Our friend’s acute- 
ness in discovering nice distinctions in species and varieties surpassed every 
thing of the kind I have ever seen, and, indeed, was carried almost to a 
fault. You know, I believe, that he was originally designed for the law, 
and was for some time with Mr. Frost, a solicitor at Hull, I think ; but he 
early gave up all professional views, and devoted himself to natural 
NSIC a 5 a) (gual 


640 Obituary. 


ception that epithets, like those which follow, are very undesirable in 
botanical nomenclature. In reply to a hope 1 had expressed to Mr. 
Haworth, that he had not devised them, he humorously replied as follows. 
—J.D.):—“ Verénica neglécta and Saxifraga intdcta are not of my naming, 
and although I am not passionately fond of such names, we may as well 
call the O*xalis, that has bewildered you so much, ‘ puzzle-peg.’ ” shi 
“The dast general work ever ought to be the best, simply because time 
alone is the best corrector of errors.” . . . . “ The seeds you mention 
I have forgotten all about, and may add, seeds and roots, save of bulbs 
and of succulents, are almost thrown away upon me, as I have no room 
in my little garden here to grow them.” 

Seventeenth Letter, dated February 25. 1830.—. . . . . “ The 
late very long and heavy winter has, I am sorry to say, destroyed an 
unusual number of my green-house succulents; some of which, I think, 
will never be seen alive here again, in my time. But I console myself in 
having dried specimens of them; and this leads me to speak of your 
specimens of last summer. Most of those I dried very well, and where 
they were not too luxuriant, I have glued one of most of them, even 
though I had them before; preserving your numbers (and tickets of all you 
wrote the names of), so that I can refer to almost any number you, 
retrospectively, may enquire about. When you send more, go on, cur- 
rently with the numbers, very carefully (for you sent no ticket number 320, 
but two, and distinct species, of 321, though both numbers are in your 
letter). Ticket and number every species. Select moderate, or smallish 
garden specimens (which look like strong wild ones) and with fruit and 
flower, and even root, where practicable and not too large; with every 
information of country, duration, and intreduction ; and, when known, any 
remarks or reference to figure or page, where reputed to be described.— 
Keep up to this ; and I will settle for you as much as my leisure will pos- 
sibly allow.” [The expressions “ country,” date of “introduction,” &c., 
render it not improper to say that these were made in relation to species 
raised from seeds most kindly contributed to the Bury Botanic Garden, 
by Mr. Hunnemann, 9. Queen Street, Soho Square, London; by Mr. 
Christopher Abraham Fischer, inspector of the botanic garden in the 
University of Gdttingen; and by others: from these seeds plants new to, 
or rare in, this country were occasionally produced. See in p. 111. 113. 
and 240. of the present Volume, Mr. Cameron’s rich list of newly in- 
troduced species, raised from these and similar sources. — J. D.] 

Eighteenth Letter.— Wholly technical. 

Nineteenth Letter, dated May 22. 1830.—. . . . “I have described 
at large the, your two wild, Suffolk Croci, for the Supplement to English 
Botany, and they will be published on the Ist of June next. I have also 
described a new Mammillaria for the Botanical Register, which will be out 
in June, and have likewise written a sort of advertising enquiry about the 
lost hardy bulbous plants of our great grandfathers, in the Gardener’s 
Magazine for June next. [See Vol. VI. p. 368., also Vol. VII. p. 247. 
—J.D.] So you will find I have not been idle. I have had the like 
occur (three different pieces on natural history, in three different period- 
icals, in one month) twice before in my time.” . . . . “ When you 
come, I shall be exceeding glad to see you here, and to give you every 
facility and information in my power respecting any thing that may serve 
your views.” [This, my deceased friend, Mr. Haworth, did to the full, 
and, as long as he lived, was very kind to me. — John Denson.] 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 


DECEMBER, 1833. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Art.I. Notes on Gardens and Country Seats, visited, from July 27. 
to September 16., during a Tour through Part of Middlesex, 
Berkshire, Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire, Wiltshire, Dorsetshire, 
Hampshire, Sussex, and Kent. By the ConpucTor. 


(Continued from p. 529.) 


Sroxe Farm, Lord Sefton. —'The grounds are not very ex- 
tensive, and they are perfectly even, or uniform on the surface, 
having a gentle slope towards the south. ‘The house consists 
chiefly of an addition made some years ago to a farm house ; 
and, taking the place altogether, it is appropriately named. 
The house differs decidedly from those of the two preceding 
places, it being entered on one side instead of from behind, so 
that the principal beauties are shown from the approach road. 
There is a very neat flower-garden by Mr. Repton, which is 
kept fully stocked with pelargoniums and other showy free- 
flowering green-house plants. There is a very useful object 
here, which deserves imitation in all warm situations; viz., a 
large recess in a wing, connected with the house by a veranda 
open to the south, and furnished with tables, chairs, &c. In 
* this logeia, as the Italians would call it, the family, when by 
themselves, may pass the greater part of the day, during the 
heat of summer. Windsor Castle, the usual distant feature of 
the seats in this neighbourhood, is seen from this alcove, be- 
neath the branches of spreading trees. On the lawn opposite 
the entrance front are some raised beds of flowers, with ivy 
Vou. IX.— No, 47, T T 


642 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


edgings, which have an exceedingly good effect. Indeed, we do 
not know any edging which looks better, or is more suitable for 
flower-beds on the entrance front ; and none is cheaper, either 
in the first formation, or in after-keeping. Among the 
flowers, Wall’s seedling georgina was pointed out to us as 
being the only variety of this splendid flower which is sweet- 
scented. Mr. Wall is a nurseryman at Uxbridge. The 
young ladies here amuse themselves by cutting off the de- 
cayed flowers, for containing which they have very neat deep 
baskets of wickerwork, painted green. No amusement can 
be more appropriate, or more effective in making the flower- 
garden look well; and we wish we could see the practice 
universal. Some ladies, however, who pretend to admire 
flowers, will suffer decayed roses, dead leaves, and seed pods 
to remain on plants under their drawing-room windows. We 
sincerely wish that we could infuse a greater taste for order 
and neatness into all such persons. ‘The kitchen-garden 
was the object of the greatest interest to us at Stoke Farm, from 
its being under the management of our early, and now too 
seldom seen, correspondent, Mr. Oldacre. As we expected, 
the crops of every kind were excellent. We were particularly 
struck with the great breadth devoted to late peas, which 
looked so remarkably well, that, considering the extraordi- 
nary dryness of the season, we could not help asking Mr. 
Oldacre if he had any particular method of watering them ? 
His answer was, that he never watered them at all after 
they were above ground: he sowed them in the bottom of 
drills 6 in. deep, filled the drill half full of soil, and then gave 
such a thorough soaking of water as to saturate all the soil 
under and about the seeds. After this he fills in the re- 
mainder of the earth ; and, the whole compartment being now 
dry in appearance, he rolls it quite smooth with a heavy roller, 
and gives no other culture of any kind, till the peas are fit to 
stick. Among the wall fruits, Mr. Oldacre pointed out 
Salter’s improved Moor Park apricot. He also remarked 
that the violet hative nectarine was better than the elruge, 
as the latter is apt to wither and become insipid when fully 
ripe. ‘The green gage plum always cracks on a south wall; 
and Mr. Oldacre therefore prefers an eastern exposure for 
this delicious fruit. He has raised a new seedling scarlet- 
fleshed melon, with a smooth silver skin: the plant is a great 
bearer, and the fruit is of superior flavour. Early cucumbers 
are grown here and at Stoke Place, in an improved form of 
M‘Phail’s. pits, on trellises, about 4 in. under the glass; the 
trellis being about a foot above the soil. By this plan they 
can be more easily managed in the winter season: there is 


Stoke Farm, Burnham, Dropmore. 643 


less danger from overheating in the dung-bed, and much less 
risk of the plants damping off from vapour arising from the 
soil, ‘The improvement was made by Mr. Patrick, who for- 
merly lived at this place, and who has promised us a plan and 
section of the pits. All the houses and most of the pits here 
are heated by hot water. ‘There are a good many hedges of 
spruce fir, which, when not too severely cut, lasts many years ; 
and there is a wall of loose ragstone, covered with ivy, 
which makes a very handsome evergreen fence. Mr. Oldacre 
has had the plantation which sheltered the north side of this 
garden removed to the distance of 300 ft. from the walls, as, 
when it was within 50ft. of them, the birds were found to 
destroy almost every thing in the garden. This is an im- 
provement wanted in very many gardens. 

Burnham. — Near this village is a small villa in the cas- 
tellated Gothic style, faced with beautiful white Stourbridge 
brick, in tolerable taste; but the grounds are badly arranged, 
and neglected. We entered this villa through the grounds 
belonging toa very pretty cottage occupied by a Mrs. Jackson. 
The passage is under a veranda, which, beyond the house, 
changes to an arcade of climbing plants; through the open- 
Ings in which are seen groups of flowers on lawn. 

Dropmore, Earl Grenville. — July 31. Beautiful as this place 
always is, it has been very much improved since we last visited 
it in 1826. (See Vol. III. p. 257. and p.481.) Mr. Baillie has 
been succeeded by Mr. Frost, a most active and intelligent 
young man, well fitted for such a situation. A new entrance 
lodge has been formed on the Burnham side, covered with 
trunks of trees, in the manner of a Russian log-house, with a 
chimney top in the style of those of Venice; rather an incon- 
gruous assemblage, which forms a false note of preparation 
for a place which, in other respects, is generally in consistent 
taste. We were first shown into the range of flower-gardens, 
which forms a line with the lawn front of the house; and cer- 
tainly there is nothing of the kind in a flat situation, that we 
know of, superior to it. In point of picturesque beauty, the 
flower-garden scenery at Redleaf, Montreal, and Bromley Hill, 
is much finer; but the flower-garden at Dropmore shows what 
may be done by art on a surface wholly without natural ad- 
vantages. ‘The effect is produced by the arrangement of the 
beds, and by the distribution of pedestals with vases, statues, 
and other sculptures, and by therms and other mural and 
architectural ornaments. To connect the whole with the 
house, there is an architectural wall, with an open Italian 
parapet in the front of its border in one place, and in others 


various hot-houses, which are placed against it. The vases 
Dew 2 


644 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


and sculptures are partly of real, partly of artificial, stone, and 
partly of china-ware. ‘There are benches with carved backs, 
made of wood, but painted and sanded in imitation of Bath 
stone, which are particularly good; as are a number of Austin’s 
vases, fountains, candelabra, and other ornaments; as well as 
a manner of forming pedestals of open brickwork for sup- 
porting sculptures. ‘The parapets are of artificial stone, or 
brickwork covered with cement; the wall against which the 
hot-houses are placed is of brick, covered with trelliswork ; 
and the hot-houses are of wood, painted green. ‘This 
green colour in the hot-houses and the trellises is what we 
can never reconcile ourselves to: it detracts from the 
avowedly artificial character of the rest of the scenery. 
We shall not offer a single argument on the subject, but 
simply state our own feelings, which have always been the 
same ever since we saw, in 1806, the pea-green hot-houses 
of Mr. Hare (now, we believe, Sir Thomas Hare), at his 
seat in the neighbourhood of Downham, in Norfolk. The 
reason of our dislike can only be found in the want of har- 
mony between this green and the green of nature. Let the 
woodwork of the hot-houses at Dropmore be imagined of a 
stone colour, or of the colour of any kind of timber, or even 
brown or grey bark, and how different would be the effect! 
Tn walking through the grounds, we were everywhere, as in 
1826, charmed and delighted; and we were still more so now 
than then, at finding the number of rustic stands, vases, &c. 
diminished. The pinetum has received numerous additional 
species, and the sorts which were rare in 1826 have now 
attained a considerable size, and some have been found hardier 
than was expected. We particularly allude to Cunninghamza 
lanceolata and Araucaria imbricata, both of which are found 
so hardy as to stand here without protection. We could 
enumerate a number of species, with the sight of which we 
were much gratified, but we refer our readers to Mr. Frost’s 
article on this subject (p. 559.). It is almost needless to state 
that in the flower-garden were to be found all the new, rare, 
and beautiful hardy flowering plants. We were particularly 
struck with the number of plants of that gorgeous iridean bulb, 
Gladiolus natalénsis (psittacinus), splendidly in bloom ; Madia 
élegans, Petunia phoenicea, Calandrinia grandiflora, and Ver- 
béna vendsa, which produces underground stolones, and is 
particularly fitted for filling a bed in a very short time. Tour- 
nefortza heliotropidides is likewise well adapted for beds, and 
also Nicotzdna longiflora, which we found profusely covered 
with odoriferous flowers. The day being cloudy, the ceno- 
theras had a splendid appearance. The masses of Campanula 


Clicfden House. 645 


carpatica in some places, and of Verbéna chameedrifolia and of 
the common clove in others, had a most brilliant effect. There 
is a large compartment of standard roses, the highest of which, 
in the centre, is 15 ft., and which slope down on the sides to 
5ft. Mr. Frost is endeavouring to naturalise many plants, 
both annuals and perennials, in the woods, by planting and 
sowing there all his spare plants and seeds. It is incredible 
what may be done in this way, since it has been proved that 
the seeds of some stove annuals will remain in the open ground 
during our winters, and come up and flower vigorously ‘during 
summer. Viewing the subject in this light, we see no reason 
why the common * pelargoniums, some io ‘the fuchsias, bal- 
sams, and many other plants of warm climates, should not be 
treated as hardy annuals, as well as nasturtiums, marvel of 
Peru, &c. Perhaps many such annuals may be naturalised 
in the warmer parts of the island. But we shall not attempt 
to go into details. Stuartza virginica Dec. (Malachodén- 
dron Z.) is now magnificently in bloom here, as are various 
plants in the hot-houses and conservatories. 

Cliefden House, Sir George Warrender.—'The house was 
burned down many years ago, but is now rebuilding. We 
suppose the elevation is nearly a fac simile of the house that 
was burned down, otherwise we are at a loss to conceive how 
a modern architect could introduce half columns and an archi- 
trave in the manner here done in the basement story. The 
original terrace, which remained uninjured, is a noble object, 
upwards of 25 ft. high, and 363 ft. long: it commands exten- 
sive views of the Thames and of the country beyond, and 
descends, by a magnificent double flight of steps, to a lawn; 
intended, as Mr. Dodds, the gardener, informed us, to be laid 
out as a flower -garden. If so, as it is at a considerable dis- 
tance from the eye, and quite beneath it, it ought to be a 
flower-garden of dwarf-erowing select shrubs. ‘The flower- 
garden of herbaceous flowers might be in front of the con- 
servatory. Perhaps it will be thought that the latter space is 
hardly ample enough for such a purpose; but let it be kept 
in the very highest order, and it will be found to produce 
more beauty, and to give more satisfaction to the owner, than 
one ten times the size kept as such gardens generally are. 
The entrance front is, very properly, on the opposite side to 
the terrace front: it is approached by a straight avenue, 
passing over table land, and entering the court of honour 
through iron gates. To the right and left are advancing 
wings, and high walls enclosing the old kitchen-garden and 
offices on the < one hand, and the flower-garden arid conserv- 


atory on the other. ‘The place is in a state of regeneration, 
y ee 5 
Ty 


646 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats: — 


therefore we shall say very little about it; but we cannot let 
pass the shed-like conservatory which forms one wing of the 
house, as seen from the terraced front: it is mean, and alto- 
gether unarchitectural. Mr. Dodds is a great amateur of 
calceolarias, and has raised some new and valuable varieties. 
He also showed us a new species of nasturtium, raised from 
seeds obtained from Italy, quite distinct from any which we 
had before seen. 

Hedsor House, Lord Boston, stands by itself, unconnected 
with offices or architectural appendages, on the top of a high 
bank on the one side of an extensive park; and, at a distance, 
strikes a stranger as a most dreary object. We hardly know 
any country seat that conveys so distinctly and impressively 
the idea of pride and poverty. We believe this to be the very 
reverse of the real state of the case; but we think it right to 
state what our first impressions were. Hedsor House is situ- 
ated on the brow of the same bank as Cliefden, but it is most 
unfortunate in its approaches, which are steep to a degree that 
is scarcely tolerable. ‘The evil might be remedied most readily 
by lengthening the road, for which there is ample space. ‘The 
parish church is in the park, close to the approach road. We 
noticed that all the tombstones were laid flat, and the surface 
kept as level and smoothly mown as a lawn. ‘This looks like 
the exercise of undue influence over the poor; for surely all 
who bury in this churchyard would not wish to have the 
gravestones flat, if they were allowed the free exercise of their 
will. It was, however, surrounded by a hedge, which is 
something better than the churchyard at Arley, the seat of 
Lord Mountnorris, near Kidderminster, where all the tomb- 
stones were buried in the night-time by his lordship, the 
boundary fence thrown down, and the whole levelled, and 
united with the lawn. This we mention on the authority of 
the late Mr. Mowbray, curator of the Manchester Botanic 
Garden, who was his lordship’s head gardener at the time 
alluded to, and carried the work into execution. Thus much 
we must say of Hedsor, that it was in excellent order and 
keeping, with the exception of the walks being sunk and the 
edges harsh. There was little attempt at display in respect 
to flowers, or rare or curious plants; but, what we think a 
great deal better, there was a general spirit of neatness and 
order which pervaded the whole. We only saw the exterior 
of the kitchen-garden, the head gardener being from home. 

Wooburn House, Sir Griffith Wilson. —A most agreeable and 
varied road leads to the village of Wooburn, near which is 
the seat of Sir Griffith Wilson. The surface is flat, on the 
banks of a rapid stream; and the only thing that we saw 


Hedsor House, Wooburn House, Hall Barns. 647 


remarkable was a row of very tall and thick-trunked Lom- 
bardy poplars, growing very close together by the roadside. 
We agree with our indefatigable correspondent, Mr. Howden, 
that admirable fences might be formed of Lombardy poplars, 
or other trees, planted closely together in rows: indeed, this 
is already done in various parts of France, Italy, and Germany. 

A Garden at one of the Paper Mills at Wooburn struck us, 
in passing, as remarkably beautiful. There were the rush- 
ing waters clear as crystal, shaded by noble trees; a lawn 
varied by numerous groups of the choicest flowers, including 
some fine Chinese roses; and a picturesque elevation of a 
dwelling-house, with a porch and veranda. What added to 
these charms was, that the whole evinced the highest degree 
of order and keeping. 

Fall Barns, near Beaconsfield, Sir Gore Ouseley. — This 
place is chiefly celebrated as having been once the property 
of the poet Waller: it has been lately sold to Sir Gore 
Ouseley, who is making a large addition to the house. There 
are two parallelogram ponds in the grounds, which may very 
well pass for imitations of the tanks of Persia and India, and 
we are curious to know what Sir Gore will make of them. 
All that has been hitherto done are the formation of some beds 
of flowers, and the pulling down of a banqueting room, to 
turn it into a dairy. The gardener’s name is Smith, and, as 
far as he is concerned, he seems to have done his part well. 

Litile Hall Barns, Cundee, Esq. — This is a small 
place, close to Beaconsfield, where the last occupier of Great 
Hall Barns used to reside occasionally. From what we saw 
of it over the pales which separate it from the public road, 
it appears to be in very high keeping; and we were informed 
that, besides an excellent collection of plants, it has an aviary, 
amenagerie, and a museum of natural history. 

The Churchyard at Beaconsfield is chiefly remarkable for 
containing the tomb of the poet Waller, which occupies a 
most unpoetical extent of surface; and, what is worse, this 
surface is paved with flagstones. ‘The tomb is in the form of a 
parallelogram chest, with drapery, cut in stone, hanging down 
on each side and at the ends; as if, after the body had been 
deposited in the chest, a pall had been thrown over it, and 
then the lid put on. ‘The effect is good. On the centre of 
this lid is a smail obelisk, or pyramid, containing the inscrip- 
tion, arms, &c. Out of one side of the surface of the pave- 
ment which surrounds this tomb rises a walnut tree, at least 
18in. in diameter at the ground; but whether planted, or 
originated by accident, we could not learn. Along one end 


of this churchyard there is a row of houses, with narrow gar- 
rr 


648 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats: — 


dens between them and the graves ; a circumstance producing, 
in our minds at least, a peculiar kind of melancholy. Burke 
was buried in the church; but, as we hate interments of this 
kind, we did not visit his tomb. There is a yew tree, cut in 
a very odd form, in Beaconsfield churchyard, for which we 
could discover no reason, not having been able to find the 
clipper, Mr. Tripp. We should be much obliged to Mr. 
Smith of Hall Barns, if he would make enquiries, and let us 
hear from him on the subject. 

Bulstrode Park, the Duke of Somerset's ; and Denham Lodge, 
the Seat of —— Hamlet, Esq., the eminent goldsmith; are 
both partially seen from the road. ‘The former has, within 
the last few years, lost many of its finest trees ; but the latter 
stands nobly forward, supported by a phalanx of wood. Had 
the idea of supplying water by steam been proposed to the 
late Duke of Portland, he would probably have rendered 
Bulstrode as distinguished for its waterworks, as it was-noted 
for its want of water. Denham Lodge, we were informed, is 
kept in good order; but we had not time to call. 

Walls Nursery, Uxbridge, is chiefly remarkable for its col- 
lections of flowers, and for some new varieties raised there. 
Mr. Wall’s sweet-scented georgina, we are told, is one of the 
most valuable plants of the genus. There is a very good 
assortment of trees, shrubs, and herbaceous plants, inde- 
pendent of florists’ flowers: and, altogether, this may be con- 
sidered as a respectable country nursery. 

The Inn at Southall has a small garden and a tulip bed; 
and the window of the bar is filled with green-house plants, 
the landlord and his daughter being both remarkably fond of 
flowers. Circumstances of this kind are highly gratifying to 
us; and are only second, in the impressions which they make, 
to those which we receive on witnessing care and attention 
bestowed on cottage gardens. 

Oakbrook Cottage. — Aug. 3. 'This is a handsome Gothic 
cottage, with a tiled roof; the stable and other offices be- 
longing to it having thatched roofs: the whole displaying 
considerable taste, and being very neatly finished. ‘Taken 
altogether, it is the very handsomest thing of the kind between 
London and Brentford. Though the surface on every side is 
naturally flat for a considerable distance, yet, the buildings 
being placed on a highly raised platform, the gardens and 
grounds slope on every side. ‘The garden is carefully planted, 
and displays a considerable number of the new flowers and 
shrubs. 

In passing through Brentford, there is a house on the left 
which deserves notice for its beautiful lawn, sloping from the 


Bulstrode Park, Oakbrook Cottage, Spring Grove. 649 


street to the Thames. It is so closely shaven, and altogether 
so highly kept, that we observed, on one occasion, a maid- 
servant on her knees, cleaning the turf with a hand-brush. 

Spring Grove, formerly the seat of the late Sir Joseph 
Banks, is now the property of Henry Pownall, Esq. This 
gentleman has considerably improved the grounds by remoy- 
ing a wall which separated the kitchen-garden and part of the 
pleasure-grounds from a moat; and by turfing a part of the 
kitchen-garden, and laying it out as pleasure-cround. We 
observed some of the new plants introduced by the Horti- 
cultural Society thriving beautifully in the flower-beds; and 
some of the new pears, particularly Chapman’s, grafted by 
Mr. Oldacre on the branches of old trees, producing abund- 
ant crops. Mr. Hutchinson, the present very intelligent 
gardener, is of opinion that standard fruit trees, with long- 
extended, depending, or dangling branches, which can be 
moved in all directions by the wind, are always more likely 
to produce fruit than trees with branches fixed against walls 
or espaliers; though they may not always be able to ripen 
their fruit equally well. Every one who has seen this place, 
even from the road, in Sir Joseph Banks’s time, must recollect 
the fruit trees, with their branches trained downwards, from 
the top of the wall. This wall being now removed, some of 
the trees which remain have a very singular appearance: we 
can only compare them to leaves of the Bordssus flabellifor- 
mis, with their footstalks stuck in the ground, and the greater 
part of the palm of the leaf turned downwards. There are 
here beds of the American cranberry, in dry soil, not peat, 
bearing abundant crops. Mr. Oldacre built a small pit in 
the melon-ground for growing his favourite St. Peter’s grape. 
On enquiring for this pit, we were informed that, the glass 
roof having been removed, the walls were raised; and it has 
been turned into the head gardener’s house. This is one of 
the most economical and ingenious modes of procuring a 
gardener’s house that we ever heard of; but we cannot say 
much in favour either of its commodiousness or its comfort. 
Both the head gardener here Mr. Hutchinson, and his fore- 
man Mr. Adamson, are naturalists; both have collections of 
indigenous shells, and the latter has a small cabinet of British 
insects, collected, arranged, and named by himself. 

On the bridge at the sixteenth milestone, and on various 
other bridges near London, there are copings of cast iron; 
which we cannot but consider as in bad taste, and by no 
means likely to last so long as stone, brick, or Roman cement. 

Love Hill, Langley, Beaumont, Esq., is a small place, 
with some good trees of the last century on the lawn before 


650 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


the principal front; which, however, is not shown to strangers. 
We could only see the trees from the road; though we were 
shown the kitchen-garden by the present worthy gardener, 
Mr. White. 

Langley Park, R. Hervey, Esq., is a flat place of great 
extent, with a number of fine old oaks and elms, a piece of 
water, and an appendage to the park, called the Black Park ; 
the latter being wild and picturesque. Fifty years ago, when 
this place belonged to the Duke of Marlborough, it was kept 
in high order; but at present it is comparatively neglected. 
At that time there was a private road from the house to 
Windsor, through the duke’s property, and the park at Dit- 
ton, near Datchet, belonging to Lord Montagu. In the kit- 
chen-garden at Langley we observed some young fruit trees 
planted on hills raised 3 ft. above the surface. Mr. Stephens, 
the gardener, not being at home, we could not learn exactly 
the object in view; but we have little doubt it was the same as 
that of Mr. M‘Donald, at the Dalkeith gardens, viz., to pre- 
vent the roots from getting so soon down to the subsoil, which 
always produces canker. ‘The water in the park is good in 
regard to form and extent; but it wants a margin broken 
with gravel or stones, to relieve the monotonous effect pro- 
duced by its close contact with the green turf. ‘Two raised 
beds, bordered by basketwork, have been recently formed, 
in imitation of those in the flower-garden at Windsor Castle. 

Ditton Park, Lord Montagu.— The surface is perfectly 
flat, but it is varied with abundance of fine old elms. ‘The 
house, which is castellated, and was rebuilt, a few years ago, 
by Mr. Atkinson, is surrounded bya moat. It has altogether 
an excellent effect: and there are a very appropriate chapel, 
gardener’s house, and two lodges; all built or repaired by 
Mr. Atkinson, who excels in castles and Gothic cottages; 
and, to satisfy us, only requires to give a little more boldness 
and freedom to his chimney tops, gable ends, and other pro- 
minent parts in the sky outline. Many convenient and com- 
fortable cottages and villas are entirely spoiled as picturesque 
objects, for want of a continued attention to the * bold and 
free” in the production of their outlines. The kitchen-garden 
contains four acres, and was formed, about twenty-two years 
ago, by the present gardener, Mr. Anderson, a pupil of Mr. 
M‘Donald of Dalkeith, who has been gardener here during 
a period of twenty-seven years. ‘The wall trees, he told us, 
did remarkably well for some few years after planting, till 
their roots got down to the gravel, which lies 2 ft. below the 
surface. The apricots on pear plum stocks gave way first ; 
but those on muscle plum stocks remain good to this day. 


Langley Park, Dition Park, Frogmore Lodge. 651 


Many of the trees in the open garden are cankered. The 
reason, in our opinion, is, that the borders have been cropped 
too severely, and too deeply dug ; and the same reason applies 
to the quarters, where, in every garden, we are decidedly of 
opinion there ought to be no fruit trees at all. Considering 
that in this garden, as in most others, the number of hands 
has been lately much reduced, we found it in tolerable order. 
Mr. Anderson pointed out to us some sycamore trees here 
which every year are covered with honey dew; which dew, 
dropping on the shrubs beneath (such as box, holly, &c.), 
occasions their leaves to become black, and their branches to 
be covered with lichens ; while shrubs of the same kinds, not 
under the drip of the sycamores, are perfectly healthy. 

Frogmore Lodge, the Princess Augusta. — We have so often 
before mentioned this quiet retreat, that we shall have very 
little to say of it at present. It is in good order; and there 
is a fine display of the flowers of the season. We particu- 
larly noticed a collection of picotees and carnations, raised 
from German seeds, which we brought over for Mr. Ingram, 
from our correspondents at Stutgard, M. Hertz and M. 
Bosch, in 1829. Among these are a number of new and 
beautiful varieties. We observed also some new calceolarias, 
hollyhocks, and georginas, raised by Mr. Ingram; and fine 
collections of that fashionable flower, heartsease. We measured 
the trunks of two fine evergreen oaks in the pleasure-ground, 
and found one, at the height of 24 ft. from the ground, about 
10 ft., and the other, at the same height, about 12 ft. in cir- 
cumference. ‘There is a neat Swiss seat now erecting near 
the lake, which has been lately cleaned, and two large pikes, 
which had devoured almost all the other fish, one weighing 
19 lbs. and the other 22 lbs., were taken. 

Vare’s Nursery. — Observed a remarkably fine Técoma 
radicans major, the blossoms larger and more abundant than 
any we ever saw, with the single exception of a small one at 
Ditton Park. Macleaya in flower, upwards of 10 ft. high, and 
very showy. A purple and white Aconitum; a new and rare 
hybrid, very splendid ; a dwarf georgina (dénsa), which never 
exceeds a foot in height. Various other plants, and a good 
stock of very fine yuccas, which have several times flowered 
splendidly in this nursery. 

Forest Hill, Riley, Esq. — Aug. 4. A small place, 
without any pretensions to natural beauty; but with a lawn 
tastefully laid out, and planted and kept in the highest order, 
by the present gardener, Mr. Brown. The standard roses in 
the lawn are placed in the centre of dug circles, about 18 in, 
in diameter ; and these dug circles are obliged to be covered 


652 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


with flints, to prevent the rabbits from scraping them. The 
soil of the kitchen-garden is a very strong clay; and Mr. 
Brown can only get crops of large onions by sowing them in 
the autumn and transplanting them in the spring. 

St. Leonard’s Hill, Mrs. Harcourt. — This place is chiefly 
remarkable for the extensive views which it commands of the 
surrounding country, and especially of Windsor Castle. The 
woods are dense, and composed chiefly of oak and beech ; 
but along the roadside, between this place and Virginia Water, 
extensive plantations have lately been formed of a mixture of 
oak, birch, Scotch pine, and larch fir, which we can by no 
means approve of. In point of ornament, such a mixture is 
out of the question, since it produces the most disagreeable 
kind of artificial monotony, that of a perpetual recurrence of 
discordant forms. In point of utility it is bad, because the 
oaks are overtopped by pines and larches, which are planted 
as nurses; but which are totally unnecessary as such, in a 
soil and climate like the present. Supposing oaks alone had 
been planted, and thinned out as they advanced in their 
growth, the general appearance of the plantation would at all 
times have been agreeable, because it would have presented 
the same kind of forms variously disposed ; and all the trees 
would have grown vigorously, because no one tree would have 
robbed another, whether of nourishment, air, or light, these 
properties being shared equally among them. ‘The hedges to 
these plantations were generally clipped: a superfluous ex- 
pense, since they would have been just as effective as fences 
if left without cutting or clipping; and, every six or seven 
years, they would have produced a quantity of faggot-wood. 
The nice point to hit, in rural management, is, to incur no 
expense whatever that will not produce an adequate return. 
Between corn fields of small size, clipped hedges will pay, 
by their greater admission of light and air to the fields, both 
while they are in preparation for the crop, and while the crop 
is growing; and they are also, from their diminished and 
close compact surface, less liable to harbour birds and insects : 
but mere plantation fences require none of these considerations 
to be taken into view as guides for their management. All 
that is wanting in the case of plantations is protection ; and if 
the plants are kept clear of weeds, and left to take their natural 
forms, a sufficiently formidable fence will be produced ; and, 
at the same time, one of that description of natural or pic- 
turesque beauty, which will be more in accordance with a 
plantation of trees than a clipped formal boundary of green. 

Virginia Water. — We saw the whole of this much talked 
of scene for the first time; and, like most of the other garden 


St. Leonard’s Fill, Virginia Water. 653 


scenes of George the Fourth, it entirely disappointed us. 
We have before (Vol. III. p. 124.) noticed such parts as. were 
occasionally shown to the public; but we now walked down 
the grassy margin of one side of the lake, and partly up the 
other, so as to examine every thing. ‘To those who have 
never seen lakes in a country of hills and rocks, Virginia 
Water may be something: to us, it was tame and spiritless. 
Still, as far as nature is concerned, it would be unreasonable 
to expect any other style of beauty in the given description of 
country ; but, when we hear it so highly spoken of as it has 
been in the newspapers as a garden scene, we expect to find 
that art has been called in to heighten what nature had indi- 
cated. For example, here is a winding lake, upwards of a 
mile in length, with various bays, recesses, prominences, sinuo- 
sities, and creeks, with every where a tame smooth grassy 
margin; the grounds on each side gently rising, and covered 
more or less with woods, natural or artificial. Now, what 
would be the additions which art would make to such a scene, 
in order to enhance its interest? First, the artist would arrange 
the turf and the wood on the margin of the water, so as to 
produce variety ; and to admit of roads or walks, either of turf 
or gravel, so as to display the whole to the greatest advantage 
to a spectator walking or riding round the lake. Next, he 
would add such islands as might be necessary to throw the 
lake into agreeable shapes, and to vary its outline. ‘Then he 
would relieve the margin of the water from the tame and 
spiritless effect produced by green grass joining into blue 
water. Afterwards, he would introduce different sorts of trees 
and shrubs, instead of the common sorts already existing, 
unless these were entirely indigenous, and it were intended to 
keep up a character of indigenous beauty: and, lastly, he 
would add architectural ornaments, such as a fishing-house, 
boat-house, covered seats, rocks, sculptures, or other objects. 
Instead of this, a tame drive has been formed round the lake, 
so conducted as to produce as little variety as can well be con- 
ceived. Nothing but a common-place mixture of trees has 
been planted; no islands have been added; and no relief, by 
the introduction of stones or gravel, or even old roots or 
trunks of trees, has been afforded to the smooth grassy mar- 
gin of the water. As to architectural ornaments, a gorgeous 
Chinese fishing-house has been built ; having a highly enriched 
roof with gilt ornaments, set down amidst the common woods 
of the country, and with nothing exotic around it. In another 
place, a quantity of the Elgin marbles, consisting chiefly of 
shafts of columns, with fragments of capitals and architraves, 
and some Flemish and other statues, have been set down 


654 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats :— 


equally without appropriate scenery; with the exception, 
however, of an arch, serving as a viaduct for the public road. 
At the dam built to raise the lake, a very good cascade has 
been produced; and in one or two other places there are 
some stones arranged in imitation of rockwork. With the 
cascade and rockwork we have no fault to find; and little with 
the Grecian fragments, which are put together with consider- 
able taste: but all the rest we consider bad. We must not 
forget to mention a very handsome stone bridge, of five or 
six arches, which we think altogether inappropriate to lakes, 
and more especially to their broad parts. Bridges are best 
adapted to rivers, or to the narrow parts of lakes; where one, 
or at most two, arches will suffice for joining the opposite 
banks. We have the same objection to the long bridge in 
Kensington Gardens as to this one at Virginia Water, as we 
have shown at length in our first volume. 

The Cottage of George the Fourth is taken down, with the 
exception of one room; and this room, and the adjoining 
grounds, are in a state of neglect. 

The Flower-Garden at Windsor Castle has received the ad- 
dition of a number of marble vases, and statues, some of 
them cast in metal, and some of marble. Some of these 
are from the antique, and some in the style of Louis XIV. 
The planting of the garden is liable to all the objections which 
we before mentioned (Vol. V. p. 605.) ; and the beds at this 
time are almost without flowers: very different, indeed, from 
the dazzling display at Dropmore. In some of the vases 
there were a few shabby half-starved fuchsias and other 
green-house plants, which would be considered a disgrace in 
a cottager’s window; and the few flowers introduced in the 
beds were chiefly yellow lupines, marigolds, and other of the 
commonest annuals. In the centre there is a fountain, issuing 
from the orifices of a piece of metal resembling the rose of a 
watering-pot. ‘The horizontal jets, which rise only an inch 
or two above the water, and extend almost in contact with its 
surface, have an exceedingly good effect, by giving great 
agitation to the water; but there is much want of a perpen- 
dicular central jet. ‘The view from the noble terrace round 
this garden is, for richness and grandeur, as far as we know, 
unrivalled; and the exterior architecture of the castle, now 
nearly everywhere renovated, appears to us in unexception- 
able taste. ‘The gates to the long walk or avenue, with their 
low stone-roofed lodges, and massive angular stone piers con- 
necting the iron palisading, we particularly admire. We saw 
the state-roon s, which are finished in a simple Gothic style 


Windsor Castle, Salthill Nursery. 655 


(with the exception of the ball-room, which is in that of 
Louis XIV.); but they are not yet furnished. 

Inn at Salthill. — Aug. 5. This house, which has attained 
great celebrity for furnishing all the comforts of private life 
to the higher classes, has had the character also of a garden 
inn, to our knowledge, for the last thirty years. The veranda, 
when we first saw it, was hung with festoons, from one end 
to the other, of Cobce’a scandens; and it is now varied by 
many of the finest modern creepers. At the foot of the sup- 
ports, the finer sorts of fuchsias, pelargoniums, calceolarias, 
and other green-house exotics, are flourishing with as great 
luxuriance, and as completely untouched by passengers, as if 
they were bordered by a lawn in front of a gentleman’s seat. 
We can only compare this veranda with that at Mrs. Starkey’s 
cottage at Bowness (Vol. VII. p. 525.), similarly circum- 
stanced : a proof, among many that might be adduced, that the 
public will never injure things meant to be enjoyed by them. 
Across the road is a garden, of about a quarter of an acre, 
laid out as pleasure-ground, with numerous flower-beds on 
turf, a straight broad gravel walk opposite the centre of the 
veranda, numerous fine trees, amount, a seat under a tree, 
a summer-house, a bower, swings, and a green-house well 
stocked with showy plants; the whole in the very highest 
order and keeping. 

Salthill Nursery, Mr. Stewart. —'This nursery, which is of 
considerable extent, has been established upwards of twenty- 
five years; and we take blame to ourselves for not having 
before given some notice of it in this Magazine. It contains, 
near the house (which is on the left-hand side of the road 
when going from London), several green-houses, with a good 
collection of the more showy and recently introduced house 
plants; a good assortment of choice herbaceous plants, in- 
cluding the newest annuals; with a number of rare trees and 
shrubs: and, on the opposite side of the road, an ample 
stock of forest and fruit trees. Among these is an assort- 
ment of apples, placed in a line, including all those figured 
or named in Ronald’s Pyrus Malus Brentfordiensis ; and some 
others, not described anywhere. In the green-houses we 
noticed, among other plants, the Cwscuta sinénsis in great 
vigour; a choice assortment of fuchsias, many of which were 
raised from seed by Mr. Stewart, and which promise some 
new varieties ; and a pelargonium-house, fully stocked with the 
best varieties. In one of Mr. Stewart’s houses a Cobee‘a 
lived nine years, producing vigorous growth, and abundance 
of flowers every year. Among the green-house plants in the 
open air was a large Lambértza formosa, splendidly covered 


656 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


with its beautiful flowers; and also a new variety of Passiflora 
ceertlea. On each side of the front entrance to the nursery is 
a fine weeping ash, planted by Mr. and Mrs. Stewart, to 
commemorate the death of George III.; and, at the side 
entrance, is an evergreen oak, already a fine tree, placed there 
to commemorate the accession to the throne of George IV. 
We intend in future to visit this garden periodically; as well 
as that of Mr. Brown, at Slough; and also that of Mr. Baillie, 
which we did not now see. 

Burnham. — In passing the second time through this vil- 
lage, we noticed a beautiful little well-kept flower-garden, 
with a central eircular bed of fuchsias magnificently in flower ; 
radiating from which were beds of pelargoniums and the 
finer annuals. ‘This garden belonged to a village seedsman 
of the name of Austin. In the main street are two very 
choice flower-gardens, and a fine cedar tree opposite the house 
of a brewer; and, at the corner of a cottage, a remarkably 
large Baddlea globosa. Throughout the village there are a 
number of fine plants and shrubs. 

Missing our way, we stumbled on the kitchen-garden of 
Dropmore, kept by Mr. Duncan, in which were some fine 
fig trees, peach trees, and other fruits. 

Taplow Lodge, Mrs. Tunno. — This is a pleasing place, of 
considerable extent. A striking feature, in approaching to 
the entrance front, is a detached conservatory with glass on 
all sides, and an architectural elevation, by Mr. Robert 
Stewart of Great Russell Street. ‘The head gardener here, 
Mr. Holland, who is one of our correspondents, showed us 
remarkably fine crops of melons and Ribston pippins, the 
latter apple having this season produced large crops every- 
where. A small conical-shaped tree of the Hawthornden 
apple was so laden with fruit from the base to the summit, 
that it presented a perfect cone of apples, the stem of the 
tree being totally concealed, and even great part of the leaves. 
Mr. Holland grows succory here in the open garden, during 
the summer season, and, in winter, he plants the roots in 
boxes, and places them under a stage in a house for forcing 
flowers, thus producing tender, crisp, and finely flavoured 
salad throughout the winter. The Ctcumis flexudsus, or 
snake gourd, is here grown to great perfection as a curiosity ; 
one plant being raised from seed every year. Of four fruit 
now on this plant, one measured 7 ft. 1 in.; another, 6 ft. 5 in.; 
and a third, 5ft. 5in. The fourth was impregnated, and 
swelling for producing seeds for the following season. It 
may be noticed here, for the sake of those who are not aware 
of the fact, that when gardeners wish cucumbers or gourds of 


Burnham, Taplow Lodge, Taplow Court. 657 


atiy sort to grow long, and not thick, they prevent them from 
being fecundated by extracting the style and stigma im- 
mediately before the flower opens. ‘The fruit grows slower 
when thus treated, but becomes much longer. When gar- 
deners wish cucumbers to swell rapidly, so as to be cut early, 
not only are the stamens allowed to come to perfection, 
but the male flower is brought into contact with the female 
flower artificially. A Cunninghamza has here lived three 
years in the open ground without the slightest protection ; 
and a bed of Fichsza gracilis, five years. Some fine tree 
pelargoniums, on the lawn, we were informed, were of the 
variety called Rickett’s seedling: the flowers were of a bril- 
liant scarlet, and the plants of uncommon vigour, with from 
80 to 100 flowers on one truss or umbel. The yellow rose 
likes this dry gravelly soil, and flowers in it freely, producing 
perfect flowers. What is very remarkable here is, that fine 
crops of melons are grewn in pits entirely without the aid of 
bottom heat. Rock melons, grown in this manner, fre- 
quently weigh 8 lbs. Grange’s broccoli is here cultivated, 
and produces heads all the year round. ‘There is an elegant 
aviary for canaries, on a board against which are some verses 
by one of the Misses Tunno, addressing the birds on the 
subject of their want of liberty, which do equal credit to the 
head and heart of the authoress. 

Taplow Court, Earl of Orkney. — This place is nobly situ- 
ated ; the house, with the pleasure-grounds being placed on 
the brow of a lofty bank of the Thames, and commanding a 
noble reach of that river, with an extensive prospect of the 
fertile and well-wooded country beyond. ‘The ruins of an 
old church adjoining the house, and a yew tree of very great 
age on the summit of a mount, form fine objects. ‘The 
exterior architecture of the house and offices has been begun 
to be improved in the old English manner. A number of 
old walls have been pulled down, and the scenery on the 
lawn thrown open. ‘The effect is excellent. In a consery- 
atory are some fine plants, bought at the sale at White 
Knights four years ago. Among others, there is a Magnolza 
fuscata 10 ft. high, and nearly 30 ft. in circumference. An 
Acacia lophantha, when we saw it, was ripening seeds. 
There is a terrace walk here, on the summit of the bank, 
about 300 ft. above the level of the river, nearly two miles in 
length ; which, taken altogether, might be made one of the 
finest things of the kind in England, and probably in the 
world. Between this and the natural wood which skirts the 
base of the bank there is an admirable situation for an ar- 
boretum: but Lord Orkney is more fond of engineering than 

Vou. IX. — No. 47. UU 


658 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : = 


of gardening; in fact, he may be said to be devoted to the 
former, having a workshop close to the house, in which 
several engineers are constantly employed. ‘The turning 
lathe in this shop is moved by a steam-engine of exquisite 
workmanship. 

Taplow House, Pascoe Grenfell, Esq. — 'The house is situ- 
ated half-way down the same high bank on which is placed 
Taplow Court, Park Place, Cliefden, Hedsor, and a number 
of other fine places, commencing at Richmond, and extending, 
on the same side of the river, to near Reading, where the 
banks become level on both sides. ‘The house is here, very 
properly, entered from behind ; and the view from the prin- 
cipal rooms commands the Thames and Windsor Castle. The 
grounds are not very extensive; but the lawn slopes most 
beautifully, and it is judiciously varied by choice trees and 
shrubs, and beds of flowers, the latter of the rarest and most 
beautiful kinds, assiduously and successfully cultivated, and 
kept in the most exquisite order by the gardener, Mr. 
Springall, who has been in that capacity here for thirty years, 
and has planted nearly every tree, and laid out every bed. 
The first view of the lawn front of the house, bosomed as it 
is in verandas covered with creepers and in banks of flowers, 
as seen from a dark walk near the lodge, through which 
strangers are introduced, operates like enchantment. We 
never were more delighted with anything in a small place. The 
first wing of the house is only one story high, and contains a 
suite of rooms, including a library, shaded by a skeleton 
veranda. By this term we mean a veranda that, instead of a 
close roof, has merely the wall plate, and a slight rafter from 
the top of each prop. These members are entirely covered 
with vegetation in great luxuriance, and chiefly by the Vir- 
ginian creeper. The railing of a balcony in front of the 
dining-room is similarly covered, as is the veranda over it. 
The central part of the basement of the house may be de- 
scribed as embosomed in rockwork and flowers in pots and 
vases. On one end of the house is a beurré d’ Aremberg pear 
tree, 30 ft. high, covered with fruit. Turning round before 
the steps which descend from the drawing-room to the lawn, 
the latter is varied by beds of flowers which lose themselves 
among trees, shrubs, and glades in every direction, but so far 
below the eye, that, when looking at them, the distant scenery 
is not taken into the landscape. Raising the eye, we catch 
the Thames and Windsor Castle between the tops of the 
trees. ‘The walk proceeds in a winding direction till it 
reaches a straight walk shaded by elms, the simplicity of 
which contrasts finely with the variety and intricacy of the 


Taplow House. 659 


other walks. Among the trees not planted by Mr. Springall, 
may be noticed a magnificent plane, 100 ft. high, with 
branches extending far on every side, and sweeping the 
ground; a cule tree, 70 ft. high, and some noble elms. We 
were particular! ly struck with ie vigorous growth of every 
description of plant introduced in the flower-beds ; and we 
were informed by Mr. Springall of the cause; viz., that he 
takes out the soil every year to the depth of 2 ft. or 3 ft., and 
renews it entirely. He does not introduce a single bed, or 
even a single plant, however common may be the kind, with- 
out this precaution. On observing the flower-stems and 
remaining flowers of Gladiolus byzantinus very strong, Mr. 
Springall stated that he never puts dung in his compost for 
these plants, but only uses yellow loam with a little sand. ‘The 
different dwarf blue-flowered lobelias, such as L. unidentata, 
dellidifolia, erindides, &c., grow here so much larger than we 
have seen them any where else, that they appeared like 
distinet varieties. ‘The same may be said of the different 
verbenas and of most of the other usual lawn plants. 
The masses of blossom shown by single pelargoniums were 
remarkably fine; some of them were 3 ft. in diameter at the 
base, and 6 ft. high, forming a complete cone of scarlet 
flowers. These plants continue in bloom all the summer, 
a particular variety being used for that purpose, which is ob- 
tained in the following ingenious manner : — It is well known 
to gardeners that variegated-leaved pelargoniums flower more 
freely, and for a greater length of time, than any of the 
varieties which are not variegated ; but then these variegated 
plants never grow large, or produce strong wood and vigor- 
ous leaves. ‘Lo obtain strong wood and luxuriant foliage, 
as wellas a continuance of bloom all the season, Mr. Springall 
chose a cutting from a variegated plant which had run, or 
returned to its original green; and from this cutting he pro- 
pagated the plants which he trains as cones. We may observe, 
that here, as at Dropmore, the walks were brimful of gravel, 
and the grass edgings clipped, and not pared, which, as we 
have often before said, is one of the greatest beauties in the 
details of walks, though we cannot get it attended to half 
so much as we could wish. Mr. Springall is enthusiasti- 
cally devoted to his profession, and is in his garden, as he 
informed us, from four o’clock in the morning till it is dark at 
night. His master never interferes with his management, 
Pail this will always be found to be the case, when ne garden 
is so well conducted as it is here. Mr. Springall lives in a 
pretty thatched cottage by the road side, with an octagon front, 
and a veranda ornamented by creepers ; he has also a very 


U Ure 


660 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


neat flower-garden in front. Opposite the entrance to Tap- 
low House is another handsome cottage, with a beautiful 
flower-garden in front, evidently under the superintending 
care of Mr. Springall; so that the general impression, both 
on entering and leaving the place, is that of comfort, neatness, 
and fine flowers. 

Wakeril’s Nursery, Maidenhead. — This nursery has only 
been lately established ; and Mr. Wakerill is taking the most 
effectual means of insuring success, viz., that of procuring all 
the newest hardy plants from the Epsom and other nurseries 
about London, and propagating them with rapidity. He 
has a Wistarza Consequana in the corner of a frame con- 
taining hot dung, and by training the shoots, as they grow, 
concentrically round the frame, placing every alternate bud 
over a pot of earth, he raises half as many plants as he has 
buds in one summer. We never saw anything of the kind 
more cleverly done. Last year Mr. Wakerill sold 50 plants 
to the trade, from this two-light hot-bed, independently of 
what he sold to his private customers, and kept. He is pro- 
pagating Rzbes sanguineum with equal facility, from cuttings 
of the young wood. ‘This nursery was in very high order, 
and altogether we were exceedingly gratified with it, and with 
the conversation of Mr. Wakerill. 

There are two Inns at Maidenhead having gardens, one by 
the water side, which is chiefly remarkable as a landscape 
garden, and the other at the Sun Inn, at the opposite end of 
the town, noticed Vol. III. p.481., which is an ornamental or 
flower garden, in the Dropmore manner. It is in as high 
order as when we last examined it, and a distinguishing feature, 
on entering it, is an acuminated semiglobe, like the Antheum 
at Brighton, of pelargoniums, the base planted in soil raised 
to a certain height of the requisite curve, and the remainder 
in pots on a stage, which completes the figure. 

Park Place, Maitland, Esq. — We. walked over the 
whole of the ruins, as they may be called, of this once mag- 
nificent place, in company with the excellent and very intelli- 
gent gardener, Mr. White; and often did we think of what it 
must have been in the time of the Prince de Ligne, when he 
went over it with its then proprietor, General Conway. At 
that time between forty and fifty men were employed in keep- 
ing it in order, and now there are only three, with one woman, 
kept for the same purpose. ‘To expect any thing like high 
keeping, therefore, is quite out of the question, though it is 
really wonderful how much Mr. White has been able to effect 
with means so circumscribed. We cannot help deeply re- 
gretting that such a place is not kept up as it ought to be. 


Wakeril’’s Nursery, Park Place. 661 


It is grievous to see General Conway’s buildings all going to 
decay, with the single exception of the druidical temple pre- 
sented to him by the inhabitants of the island of Jersey, where 
he was some time governor; and the rustic bridge, over which 
the public road is carried, and under which there is a vista 
to the Thames. Near the house are some magnificent old 
trees, particularly a cedar planted by George III., and sup- 
posed to be the most stately cedar tree in England, which we 
doubt not may be the case: if any surpass it, it must. be some 
of those at Whitton. The soil in most parts of these grounds 
is a strong clay, very hard and dry in summer; and yet on 
this numerous rows of spruce fir trees have recently been 
planted, a tree which prefers soft soil in a low moist situation. 
In consequence of this, these trees, though not more than 
10 ft. high, are covered with cones. Perhaps there is no 
tree for which the soil and situation are so ill adapted. The 
Thames, as seen from the Druid’s temple, contains an island, 
which, with the banks and the general outline of both the 
island and the river, might afford an excellent lesson to land- 
scape-gardeners in imitating tame rivers in level parks. Park 
Place has long been celebrated for its lavender plantations, 
which occupy between 40 and 50 acres. The plants are raised 
from cuttings, which are slipped off and prepared by women 
in the autumn, and bedded in, in rows, in any spare piece 
of garden ground, where they remain for two years. The 
ground into which they are to be transplanted being prepared 
by shallow trenching, or double ploughing, the plants are 
placed in rows 4 ft. apart, and at 2 ft. distance in the rows. 
For three or four years a row of turnips or potatoes is grown 
between the rows of lavender; after which period, or about 
the time that the lavender plants in the row touch each other, 
half of them are removed, leaving the field covered with plants 
4 ft. apart every way. All the culture which is required after- 
wards, is keeping the soil free from weeds. Ina few years the 
plants touch each other; and in this state they will remain 
from 15 to 20 years, according to the nature of the soil : 
they are then taken up, and the ground cropped for two or 
three years with turnips and other field crops ; after which the 
lavender plantation is renewed. ‘The flowers are obliged to 
be either sold to a regular licensed distiller, or distilled on the 
premises, on account of the excise laws. The oil from the 
plantation here is said to be of the best quality; doubtless, 
from the calcareous nature of the soil. 

The present proprietor of Park Place has built a very 
handsome boat-house on the river side, and has finished and 
furnished it interiorly with Elizabethan and Dutch fittings up 

vu 3 


662 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats :— 


and furniture: the whole is in consistent taste. Mrs. Mait- 
land has also built a school, in which a number of children 
are gratuitously educated; a practice highly to be commended, 
so long as a national system of education is withheld. Mr. 
Maitland has also built two new lodges, and made a new 
approach. The lodges, as well as the boat-house, are by a 
local carpenter; and though the former want the boldness and 
freedom which indicate a master artist, they do credit to his 
taste. Their style is original, bordering on the Elizabethan, 
and they are, at the same time, perfectly consistent. 

The temporary fence along one of the approaches is formed 
of posts and one top rail, both being young larch fir trees 
with the bark and about 2 ft. of the branches left on; thus 
presenting a most formidable cheval-de-frise, which must be of 
considerable durability. On the public road side, a bank, 
between 20 ft. and 30 ft. high, which had been sloped to an 
angle of 45°, is now formed into'a more acute angle, it being 
found that heavy rains wash down the new earth much less 
when a bank is very steep. The cause evidently is, that less rain 
falls upon it in the one case than in the other. Reduce the 
face of the bank to a perpendicular, if practicable, and no rain 
at all would fall on it. 

Lavender Cottage, Graham, Esq., is finely situated on 
a knoll, backed by the woods of Park Place, and having the 
Thames at a short distance from the boundary of its lawn, 
the public road on the right, and the lavender plantation 
stretching away to the left along the base of the chalk hills. 
In General Conway’s time, ee was the house of his steward ; 
but it is now let as a gentleman’s residence. 

The Reading Nursery, Mr. Myles Priest. — August 6. 
This nursery was established thirty years ago, by the late 
Mr. Connings, whose executors sold the stock and good-will 
to Mr. Priest. This gentleman was brought up to the pro- 
fession of the law at Norwich, but being enthusiastically fond 
of gardening, he has relinquished the legal profession for the 
nursery iieimesee and, having begun ear a good capital 
and the greatest uadburs we roe no aocbe that he will, in a 
short time, render this one of the first of provincial nurseries. 
The extent, at present, appears to be nine or ten acres, most 
beautifully situated, on a bank gently sloping to the south, 
about a mile from the seed shop, which is in the market- 
place of Reading. For some years past, this nursery had 
been neglected ; “but Mr. Priest is procuring all the new and 
beautiful hardy herbaceous plants, and trees and shrubs, and 
increasing them through the assistance of two excellent pro- 
pagators from the nurseries of Colvill and of Lee. There 


Reading Nursery, Garden of the Reading Gaol. 663 


are two or three small pgreen-houses and pits, and more will 
be erected. Down the centre of the ground, there is a rustic 
arcade over a walk, planted with creepers, two of a sort, one 
opposite the other, which has a most beautiful effect as a 
whole; and when walked through, shows in detail the cha- 
racter of each creeper, so as to enable intending purchasers 
to make a choice from personal inspection. Borders are to 
be formed along the principal walks, to display the finest 
kinds of trees, shrubs, and herbaceous plants, including 
standard roses; all for the same purpose, viz., that of en- 
abling the public to choose for themselves. Our readers will 
recollect the notice of Mr. Priest’s Schizanthus (p. 465.) : we 
had an opportunity of seeing some of the flowers on the 
decaying plant, which has produced several seeds. ‘There 
can be no doubt of its being a distinct variety. The 
drawing sent us was a very accurate representation. Mr. 
Priest has promised to send us a communication on a flori- 
cultural impostor who has visited him, and another on the 
subject of the fly in turnips. 

The Market of Reading is weil supplied with the com- 
moner vegetables and fruits, and particularly with apples and 
cherries. ‘The latter fruit this year is very abundant, and of 
excellent quality. ‘The cherry market is held on Wednes- 
days and Saturdays, and on the last market-day, the 7th inst., 
the price was 1s. 6d. per score pounds. The last cherry market 
for the season will be held on Saturday. It is a pity that the 
cherry-growers have not learned the art of making kirsch- 
wasser. (See Vol. IV. p. 179., and Vol. VIII. p. 182.) Flowers, 
both cut and in pots, are brought to market on Saturdays, both 
from market-gardens and private gardens. Great quantities 
of green-house plants in pots have been exposed for sale in 
the market-place, from the gardens of private gentlemen, and 
also hawked round the town in carts. Mr. Priest mentioned 
to us one gentleman who sold, in one summer, as many as 
950 pots of pelargoniums in this way. Onion seed is exposed 
in the market for sale at a certain season, and this year pro- 
mises an abundant crop. | 

The Garden of the Reading Gaol well deserves notice in a 
work, the great object of which is to promote a taste for this 
art. It is, as may be supposed, small; but the governor has 
a taste not only for gardening, but for natural history. He 
has, on his lawn or grass plot, a beautiful piece of rockwork, 
composed of flints and fragments of mural antiquities. He 
has, also, a variety of plants of the choicest kinds, such as 
Wistarza, double furze, Rbes several species, Petunia pbee- 

pv 4 


664 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


nicea, and numerous pelargoniums, the whole mixed with 
fruit trees. ‘There are several little green-houses, pits, and 
frames, well stocked with rarities. ‘The whole was in the 
most exquisite order and keeping. Kvery advantage was 
taken of the high brick walls of the gaol for training vines 
and fruit trees. The governor had also a collection of fancy 
rabbits, a beautiful cockatoo, &c. The prisoners were wa- 
tering the plants; and we can only account for the neatness 
of the whole from the abundance of hands at the command 
of the master. On looking through the prison we felt, as 
we did at Aylesbury, in 1831, the deepest regret at seeing 
sO many persons imprisoned for mere trifles, without any 
reference to their reformation; which imprisonment, as 
the gaoler himself remarked, could only have the effect of 
making them worse. Great are the reforms that are wanting 
in this department of national police; and much remains to 
be imitated from the French and American practices. How 
this is to be effected in a country divided into what may be 
called castes, and where a sympathy for the lower classes in 
any that are above them is sure to involve obloquy, is what 
we cannot foresee. Providence, however, wisely orders all 
things for the best, and everything is advancing, however 
slowly. After all that has been done in America, however, 
in the way of prison discipline, it is now found that preven ion, 
by early education, is the only effectual check to crime, next 
to that of abundant employment. (See Roebuch’s Speech on 
National Education, p. 7.) 

White Knights, Cholmeley, Esq. — This place has 
lately been recovered by the family of the original possessors, 
after an occupation, for seventy years, on an imperfect title, 
by the Duke of Marlborough and Sir Charles Cockerill. 
Mr. Jones, who planted the place, and who remained here 
from the time we first saw it, in 1804, to 1830, is gone to be 
gardener to the duke at Blenheim; and the present gar- 
dener is Mr. Ward, from Downton Castle. We first went 
over the house-garden; the alterations made in which are, the 
removal of some of the hot-houses, particularly the exotic 
aquariums ; the turfing of a number of the groups of flowers, 
leaving only the shrubs and trees that were in them; and the 
removal of all the plants in pots. All these, the hot-houses, 
and all the removable articles in the grounds, were sold by 
auction, for the benefit of the mortgagee, Sir Charles Cock- 
erill, who had advanced 85,000/. to the duke upon the estate. 
The walks remain as they were, as do a few of the flower- 
beds which are left unturfed, and the whole of the beds in 
the botanic garden. ‘The interest excited by the garden, 


White Knights. 665 


notwithstanding all these changes, is still almost as great as 
ever; because the rare trees and shrubs, which were at all 
times the only objects of permanent value, still remain. 
We have not time to particularise these in detail; the list, 
even in this garden, would be too long; but, were we to 
include, at the same time, the garden in “ the wood,” and to 
note the number and dimensions of each fine plant, it would 
filla magazine. It must be recollected, that almost all of these 
plants were planted during the latter ten years of the last cen- 
tury and the first ten years of the present, when the prices 
of many articles now to be purchased for 2s. or 3s. were 
5, 10, 15, and 20 guineas each. ‘The greater number of 
these costly plants were furnished from the Hammersmith 
nursery; and, in 1804, the late Mr. Lee informed us, that 
the Marquess of Blandford’s bill with him exceeded 15,0001. ! 
Before we proceed to “ the wood,” we shall notice a few of 
the trees in the house-garden, There is a group of varie- 
gated trees, in which one of the varieties of variegated oak is 
remarkably fine, presenting, at a distance, the appearance of 
a tree of shining silver. It deserves to be extensively pro- 
pagated as an ornamental plant; and we strongly recom- 
mend it to the attention both of Mr. Priest and Mr. 
Wakerill, not forgetting Mr. Donald. Cléthra paniculata, 
now coming into flower, has attained, in some places, the 
height of 15 ft. Cunninghamza, 10 ft. high, has stood with- 
out the slightest protection, for fifteen years. Six trees of 
Ailantus glandulosa flower every year, producing only male 
blossoms. There are fine specimens of Zadtrus Sdssafras and 
L. Benzoin, and of Nyssa aquatica. A standard Photinia 
serrulata is 15 ft. high, the branches extending over a circle of 
15 ft. in diameter. When we first saw this plant, in 1804, 
and also, we believe, in 1818, it was covered with a glass 
case; but it has now received no protection for many years. 
Crateegus salicifolia is large, and is assuming a very remark- 
able cedar-like character. Arbutus Andrachne is 10 ft. or 
12 ft. high, and is believed to be the largest in England. The 
separate specimens of azaleas, on the lawn, are remarkably 
fine ; and many of them are above 6 ft. high, forming hills of 
blossom in May and June. The banks of rhododendrens 
are higher than the boundary wall. The compartments of 
the garden are, in some places, formed into panels, sunk 
about 18 in. deeper than the surrounding walks; this has 
an exceedingly good effect, by giving a terraced and elevated 
character to the walks, and to the spectator a more command- 
ing view of the beds in the panel. In all formal flower- 
gardens, bordered by right lines, where turf edgings, or 


666 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


edgings of stone, are employed, great effect is produced by 
attending to this style of disposition. Flower-beds, in such a 
garden, should be always below the level of the walks, or 
else considerably above them on a raised panel. To have 
them on a level with the walks is too simple for a style 
avowedly artificial. ‘The exterior end of one of the green- 
houses is covered with masses of the Calampelis scabra and 
Maurandya Barclayana, splendidly in flower; the orange of 
the one forming a brilliant contrast to the purple of the 
other. In the conservatory are two magnolias, each 10 ft. 
high, gracilis and purpurea, by some alleged to be the same; 
but they are here decidedly distinct, even in wood and foliage, 
while the petals of the flowers of gracilis turn back, and those 
of purpurea are cup-shaped, or rather turn inwards. In the 
same conservatory there is also a Magnolza conspicua; these 
three species having been considered green-house plants at 
the time this house was planted. ‘The M. conspicua has 
borne seeds, from which Mr. Ward has raised fifteen plants, 
which, as far as we know, are the first that have been raised: 
from seeds ripened in England. Acacia élegans is large, 
and very handsome. ‘The wall covered with Magnolia gran- 
diflora is magnificent and unique. Mr. Ward has very judi- 
ciously layered a number of the shoots at the bottom, to 
prevent any risk of its becoming naked there; and we should 
recommend removing the projecting trellis at the top, the 
object of which is to protect the lower part of the wall (but 
which experience proves to be altogether unnecessary), height- 
ening the wall instead of it, and training the trees eleven or 
twelve feet higher. To push the practice of training magno- 
lias against a wall as far as it would go, the foundation of the 
wall ought either to be made zigzag or wavy, by which means 
a very thin wall may be carried to any height with perfect 
security ; ora round tower might be built, 10 ft. or 12 ft. in 
diameter, the trees planted outside, and the tower heightened 
as they grew. 

Proceeding to “ the wood,” we cannot help noticing the 
very handsome narrow avenue of elms which forms part of 
the approach from Reading, and which has more the pro- 
portions of the centre aile of a cathedral than many which 
we have seen. Avenues are of two kinds: those which are 
open, as at Hampton Court and Windsor; and those which 
are covered, as at White Knights, Strathfieldsaye, Christ 
Church College in Oxford, and Littlecot Park. Comparing 
the four latter, we should say that the avenues at White 
Knights and Littlecot Park are decidedly the most elegant; 
that at Strathfieldsaye is grand; and that at Oxford, though 


White Knighis. 667 


now in a state of decay, would, from its commanding height, be 
sublime, if it were of greater length. ‘ The wood” at White 
Knights is entered through a gate flanked by large rough 
blocks of stone, brought from Marlborough Downs; but set 
up, as a child might be supposed to have done, before the 
wicket of its baby garden, instead of being arranged so as to 
produce some kind of artificial or architectural character. 
Two walks proceed one to the right, and the other to the 
left; the stranger being introduced by the one, and returning 
by the other. We shall not now enumerate the objects as they 
are seen in succession, as we intend to do that in a review 
(which we have had prepared for some years) of Hofland’s 
White Knights. ‘Tulip trees and magnolias of large size first 
meet the eye, mixed with the oaks, hazels, and beeches 
of the aboriginal wood. The acacias in this wood have been 
attacked two years in succession by a black aphis which 
destroyed almost the whole of the leaves; and the consequence 
is, that several are totally dead; the remainder being nearly 
bare, and so sickly that there can be little doubt of their 
dying next year. Periodical visitations of this kind by insects, 
like periodical visitations of diseases among animals, are not 
yet satisfactorily accounted for; and hence it is cut of the 
question to attempt to prevent them. ‘The catalpa evidentiy 
does not thrive on a wet subsoil; for here most of those along 
the catalpa walk are dead, and the rest are dying. We have 
observed the same thing with the catalpa in several other 
places. The specimens of Pinus Pallaszdna are very fine, and 
vary from 40 ft. to 50 ft. in height. It is said that only about 
sixty or seventy plants were imported, and that the marquess 
purchased the whole of them, and planted them in these 
woods. ‘There are a great many fine specimens of Cratee gus 
tanacetifolia both in this wood and in the open park; they 
come into flower when the blossom of the common hawthorn 
begins to fade ; and in autumn the trees are covered with large 
and beautiful yellow haws. The C. odoratissima greatly 
resembles the C. tanacetifolia in leaf and mode of growth, 
and it flowers at exactly the same time; but its berries, which 
are as large as those of C. tanacetifolia, are of a fine coral 
colour. C. Aronia bears large yellow haws, and is one of the 
handsomest trees of the genus. All these species of Cratze cus, 
as well as many others, ought to be introduced in every park and 
shrubbery. There are some good specimens of Magnolza py- 
ramidata, a tree seldom found in the nurseries, and rare, as we 
are informed by Mr.Gordon, even in America. Cornus florida 
was large and very handsome, as were both species of the stuar- 
tias, which were finely covered with flowers. A handsome tree 


668 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


of Pyrus Pollvérza, 30 ft. high, was in fruit. There were nu- 
merous large virgilias, and magnolias of almost every species 
and variety. ‘There was also a fine specimen of Quércus fas- 
tigiata, a tree said to be much more common in eee 
Thon in England. The fountain (see fig. 68. p. 215.) is in 
good repair; ‘but, though handsome in itself, Veale appears 

misplaced i ina natural’ valley. ‘The long arcades are in a state 
of decay, but the covered seats and rustic summer-houses are 
in tolerable preservation, notwithstanding the tearing down of 
the shelves and other movable parts of the latter, which were 
sold by auction. Even the houses themselves were lotted, 

and put in the catalogue for sale; but they were claimed on 
the part of Mr. Cholmeley, as belonging to the ground. The 
river in the park is now so completely covered with I’ris Pseud- 
A’corus, Sparganium, and Alisma Plantago, that the water is 
invisible; and, if left to itself, there can be little doubt that in 
a very few years it will become marshy ground. White Knights 
has been celebrated in the gardening world from the middle 
of the last century, when it was laid out as a ferme ornée, and 
attracted the attention of Whately, Shenstone, Pope, and all 
the amateurs of landscape-gardening of the time; but its 
beauties as a ferme ornée were as nothing, when compared 
with those created by the Marquess of Blandford, “ regard- 
less,” as the auctioneers say, “of expense.” It is said 
to be the intention of Mr. Cholmeley to sell this estate ; 
and we most sincerely hope that, if he does so, it may 
fall into the hands of some one who will keep it up pro- 
perly. We do not care for having the hot-houses restored, 
nor are we exceedingly anxious that herbaceous plants or 
flowers of any kind should be continued in the house-garden, 
for that is already sufficiently crowded with trees and shrubs: 
what we chiefly desire is, to see all the rare trees and shrubs 
preserved, and new species added to them as they are intro- 
duced. We would remove all the common articles and du- 
plicates from the house-garden, and all those which are too 
much crowded in “the wood,” and plant them in the park, 
and we would restore ** the wood” to its former state, and 
make a herbaceous ground there, with groups on the turf, 
according to the natural system. Were the town of Reading 
sufficiently rich, it would do them honour to purchase this 
park, and arrange it as a public garden, in which they might 
be joined by the gentry of the surrounding country, the privi- 
lege of visiting it being common to all. By having no hot- 
houses, frames, or pits, except such as were necessary to 
protect and prepare flowers for turning out into beds in 
spring, the expense of keeping it up would not be much 


Coley Park, Prospect Hili. 669 


greater than what would be produced by the rent of the house 
and pasture land, and the sums which would be received from 
visiting parties coming from a distance. If the purchase of 
the whole estate, which includes above 1300 acres, cost 
90,000/., a thousand acres might, perhaps, be sold off in 
small lots, so as to leave the 300 acres as profit: in that case, 
the rent would be easy. 

In one of the Churchyards at Reading we observed very 
handsome and economical tombs. A space 10 ft. or 12 ft. deep 
is enclosed by a wall, so as to leave the interior of the size of a 
large coffin. This wall is carried up to the surface, where it is 
finished with a corniced coping one foot high of hewn stone. 
On this coping is placed a cover of one block of stone, with 
mouldings worked on it, so as to give it the appearance of the 
top of a sarcophagus. ‘This cover is put on with mortar, so as 
to be air-tight, and is removed when interments are to take 
place. In this way, a family vault of almost indefinite capacity 
occupies very small space: but we do not recommend it; as 
the idea of piling one coffin on another is offensive, and every 
time the cover is removed there must be danger from pesti- 
lential effluvia. There is no mode of burial, in our eyes, equal 
to that of single graves in an open cemetery, field, or wood. 

Aug. 7. In proceeding along the Newbury road to Engle- 
field House, we observed, on the left, the circular reservoir of 
cast iron, which supplies great part of the town of Reading 
with water. It is about 50 ft. in diameter, and about 12 ft. 
high (we speak from a casual view), and is placed ona base of 
brickwork about 3 ft. high. If the latter had been higher and 
more architectural, and if the upper part of the cast-iron rim 
had been also architectural, and the surrounding fences re- 
moved, so as to leave this structure in an open area, it would 
have formed a noble public ornament. 

Coley Park, the Seat of B. Monk, Esq., has a promising en- 
trance ; and, though the grounds are flat, the place looks well 
from the road. 

Prospect Fill, Stephens, Esq., is finely situated on the 
side of a hill, backed and flanked by rising woods. All that 
it requires is that finishing to the lawn which can be only 
given by the exercise of ornamental gardening: that is, the 
judicious disposal of groups and baskets of flowers, and vases 
and other architectural ornaments. A terrace, as a basement 
to the house, would also be a great improvement. Some 
young plantations by the road side are judiciously thinned, so 
as to allow the trees to be clothed with branches from the 
ground upwards; a circumstance rarely to be met with in any 
other part of this country. A narrow belt becomes thus pro- 


670 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats: — 


ductive of great variety of form and outline, and is a more 
effective scene than if it were broader, and the trees standing 
closer together. 

Calcot House, Mrs. Bevil, is a massive brick building, with 
a finely undulated park, varied with noble trees. ‘The house 
is large; and though faulty as a piece of architecture, yet, as 
contrasted with the green of the trees and the turf, it has a 
grand effect. 

A new Church has been erected at Theale, the body of which 
is satisfactory, but the tower, and all the turrets, and termi- 
nations to the buttresses, are too short; they want that bold- 
ness and freedom of style which in all arts is the characteristic 
of the master, — of the mind which has perfect confidence in 
what it is doing. 

Englefield House, R. P. Benyon de Beauvoir, Esq., is most 
nobly situated on the side of a considerable hill, covered with 
fine old wood. From the road the house (which is a building 
extended in length, with a tower-like projection at each end) 
is seen rising through the wood. There is nothing done in the 
way of pleasure-ground around it, but there is a most excel- 
lent kitchen-garden, managed by one of the best cultivators in 
England, Mr. Greenshields, author of an excellent paper on the 
pine-apple, in the Hortzcultural Transactions, quoted in our 
Encyc. of Gard., and also in this Magazine (Vol. I. p. 426.). 
Adjoining the kitchen-garden there is a flower-garden, with a 
conservatory, and a plant stove. ‘The wall trees and other 
particulars respecting this place bave been noticed by our 
correspondent, Mr. Saunders. (Vol. VI. p. 655.) The trans- 
planted trees, which he there speaks of, are, however, plums 
against a wall, and not standard pears. ‘The garden has been 
lately enlarged, and some new walls have been built: in one 
direction, where it is proposed to extend the garden still 
farther, Mr. Greenshields has put up a wavy 4-in. wall, 10 ft. 
high, which forms a very good fruit wall in the meantime, and 
can be removed at very little expense. This wall has no 
piers, and the coping is of semi-oval bricks (see Ency. of Gard., 
§ 1567. 2d edition). Mr. Greenshields grows the winter 
Auchan pear here to very great perfection, and has now some 
trees trained in the en quenouzlle manner, but more systemati- 
cally, and, indeed, more in the balloon manner, which have 
good crops. He intends to have balloons rising one out of 
another, each smaller than that below, so that the tree, when 
finished, will appear like a tapering column of pears, stuck 
into one another with the broad ends uppermost. ‘The object 
is to gain room for kitchen crops, and to produce something 
new and varied in appearance. Much of his success, in our 


Calcot House, Englefield House: 671 


opinion, will depend on his being able to dispense with the use 
of the knife, and to substitute disbudding. The great ad- 
vantage of this operation is, that it adjusts the strength of the 
roots to the required top or branches; whereas, when shoots 
are left on till it becomes necessary to cut them off with a 
knife, they have already done mischief, by over-strengthening 
the root. There is no man whom we know, who understands 
this subject so well as Mr. Main; and we would very strongly 
recommend his little work on vegetable physiology to every 
young gardener. We shall be disappointed, if, when the 
doctrine of disbudding comes to be thoroughly understood, it 
does not effect a very considerable change in the mode of 
managing every description of fruit tree which requires to be 
trained in any particular form, or kept within any particular 
dimensions less than what are natural to it. The Kerry pippin 
is a favourite apple here, and the standards of it are laden with 
fruit quite down to the ground. All the kitchen crops are 
cultivated in drills ; even to lettuces and radishes. We saw 
remarkably fine Italian celery, a variety which Mr. Green- 
shields considers so much superior, both in flavour and 
crispness, to all others, that he does not cultivate any of them. 
He has sent a quantity of the seed to Mr. M‘Arthur, of the 
Connaught Square nursery, through whom we hope it will be 
distributed all over the country. The pine-apples here appear 
to be of a particular variety of queen, which is very prolific 
in suckers, every plant having four or five, and some more. 
One of the peculiarities of Mr. Greenshields’s mode of growing 
pines is, that of planting them deep in the pot. We never 
saw pines looking better, or a finer show of fruit. In the 
flower-garden, conservatory, and stoves there was much to re- 
mark, but we were so * taken” with Mr. Greenshields, whom 
we found to be born in the parish adjoining that which was our 
own birthplace, that we did not pay sufficient attention to 
what was before us. We recollect, however, the impression 
made on us by the good tone of colour (that of Bath stone) 
of the hot-houses, from which a hint might be taken at Drop- 
more and other places; the good effects of enclosing the flues 
in stone cases, so as to regulate the admission of heated air ; 
a remarkably fine Pergularia; a variety of capsicum, the true 
Indian, very desirable for pickling, and which Mr. Green- 
shields thinks ought to be extensively cultivated ; numerous 
plants of ginger, here grown in large quantities for preserv- 
ing; Cycas revolita in remarkably large fine deep green 
foliage, which is chiefly produced by cutting over the old 
leaves in February, about a fortnight before the new ones 
begin to appear; a remarkably tine plant of Lagerstroe’mza 


672 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats: — 


indica, with thirty trusses of Gonpen all expanded, one of 
them 1 ft. long and Gin. in diameter; Angelonia salicifolia, 
here a favouri ite ; ; Brugmansza arborea, finely i in flower; Tac- 
sonia peduncularis, on an open wall, very vigor ous, but not yet 
in flower ; large white fig trees against a wall in the flower- 
garden, which were not pruned till midsummer, as an experi- 
nen to see whether it would check their growth; several 
pieces of rockwork, and one ridge of raised ground with 
common heath as undergrowth, anv rhododendrons as bushes ; 
a number of the more rare pines; such as Cédrus Deodara, 
Pinus Sabinzdna, ponderdsa, taxifolia, and Douglaszz, &c. ; the 
last, both here and at Dropmore, makes two shoots every 
season, grows as freely as the common spruce, or more so, 
and promises t@ be a valuable addition to our resinous timber 
trees. Gailldrdza aristata is here difficult to keep through the 
winter, as are some of the new calceolarias. The scarlet thistle 
(Erythrolena conspicua) ripens its seeds by being sown in 
the autumn, either in the open air and sheltered, or under a 
cold frame. Myrtles against the walls have stood out many 
years, and have ripened their berries, from which young plants 
have been raised. Thunbérgza alata is sown in February, as an 
annual, for beds and borders. The georginas, instead of being 
tied to stakes, are pegged down, so as to cover the whole sur- 
face of the bed with a mass of flowers, a practice which we do 
not recollect to have seen elsewhere. Datidra Metel, a very 
distinct species, which, with D. ceratocailon and Marty¥nia 
proboscidea, forms a singular ornament to the flower-garden. 
The tall red stems of ‘Phytolacca decandra are here, at 
White Knights, at Frogmore, and at the Botanic Garden at 
Twickenham, bold and imposing ornaments, and their beauty 
is still greater when in fruit than when in flower. Mr. Green- 
shields prefers fire heat (55°) to dung heat, for growing mush- 
rooms; the former, he thinks, producing too much moisture. 
In crossing the country to Strathfieldsaye, we observed a re- 
markably large yew tree in the churchyard at Sulhampstead ; 
and a long broad ditch, completely covered with Sagittaria 
sagittifolia; on the margin of which was abundance of S¥m- 
phytum officinale. We passed a number of other large yew 
trees, and found also that this tree, of a large size, was abun- 
dant in the park at Strathfieldsaye. At Mortimer Street, the 
vicarage house has a very beautiful flower-garden and shrub- 
bery, with a piece of water, the beauty of which may be fully 
enjoyed by passengers on the road. The grounds consist of 
two banks of turf, which slope down to the pond, and the 
whole is considerably below the eye of a person walking 
along the road. It would be easy to shut it out by a hedge of 


Strathfieldsaye. 673 


the ordinary height, but we commend the taste and good feeling 
of the proprietor, in wishing his neighbours and the public to 
participate in his enjoyments. We know nothing of this vicar, 
not even his name; but we have little doubt that he is a good 
man. It seems ie us that every man, in ornamenting his 
house, his garden, or his estate, however small it may be, 
ought to poneiden not only his own gratification, but the orna- 
ment and benefit of his country. He ought always to ask 
himself, what the passers by will think of what he is doing. 
‘We passed some plantations of firs planted in straight lines 
6 ft. apart, and of oaks 12 ft. apart; the trees in both cases 
20 ft. high. This mode of planting seems to be common in 
this part of the country, and indeed, it is the only mode by 
which plantations can be sytematically cultivated and managed 
with a view to profit. At Swallowfield we fourid similar planta- 
tions, but in a younger state, and with four rows of potatoes cul- 
tivated with the plough in every interval between the trees. In 
passing along this cross road, the turnings and intersections 
were numerous, and, as there were scarcely any houses, if we 
had not had a good map, we could hardly have found our 
way. A great deal has been said respecting building cottages 
along the main reads, instead of milestones ; but woul: it not ihe 
of more use to build cottages at the intersections ofall roads ? 
We do not, however, desire this ; for so great are the advan- 
tages of aggregation, that, as soon as the mass of society is 
properly educated, they will seldom be content to live other- 
wise than in or near to towns and villages. 

Strathfieldsaye, Elis Grace the Duke of Wellington. — We 
entered this noble park by an avenue a mile in length of elms, 
of a broader-leaved kind than the common English elm, and 
forming a tree of less altitude. The surface over which this 
avenue passes is undulating, which detracts somewhat from its 
first impression ; but, as it is found to increase in leneth as we 
advancealong, thesentiment of grandeuris recalled, and by pro- 
longation is even heightened. We expected the surface of the 
grounds to be fiat, but were agreeably surprised to find a gentle 
hollow running through them in the direction of the length of 
the park, in the bottom of which hollow is the river Loddon, 
widened, and otherwise heightened in effect. ‘The park is as 
well wooded as could be desired, with trees of all ages and 
sizes, but chiefly with old oaks and elms. ‘The avenue of elms 
terminates at a short distance from the house, where the 
pleasure-ground commences on the left, and a plantation con- 
tinues to the kitchen-garden and stable offices to the right. 
The approach road is still continued in a straight line between 
them, till it terminates in a circular road round a piece of turf 

Vou. IX. — No. 47, x x 


674 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


about 100 ft. in diameter, to the left of which is the entrance 
front of the house; to the right, and also in front of the 
long avenue, are straight roads forming approaches in different 
directions. We met Mr. Cooper, the very polite and well- 
informed gardener, at the commencement of the pleasure- 
grounds, and walked round them and the kitchen-garden with 
him, leaving the place afterwards by the London approach, 
which branches from the avenue in a winding direction at about 
two thirds of its length from the house. The pleasure-ground 
is of very limited extent, and perfectly flat; but it contains 
some very fine specimens of cedars, larches, Weymouth pines, 
spruce firs, and other foreign trees, including, we may say, most 
of those which were to be found in the London nurseries about 
the middle of the last century. ‘There was, in particular, the 
largest hemlock spruce, we believe, in England; we guessed 
it at between 40 ft. and 50 ft. in height; the trunk at the base 
at about 12 ft. in circumference, and the extent of the branches 
at between 15 and 16 yards. ‘The trunk divides in two about 
the height of 2 ft. from the ground, otherwise there can be no 
doubt the tree would have grown higher. [It stands on the 
centre of a semi-oblate spheroid (a flattened dome), and under 
the branches are a great number of seedlings. Whoever has 
grounds of his own, and wishes to have a memorial of Strath- 
fieldsaye, ought to beg from Mr. Cooper one of these plants. 
There is an old sickly catalpa in flower, from the appearance 
of which, and from that of those in the wood at White Knights, 
it is evident that a wet-bottomed soil does not suit this tree. 
Of N¥ssa aquatica, there is a very fine specimen about 20 ft. 
high, and with a stem 6 in. in diameter. There area very large 
liquidambar, several fine tulip trees, and decidedly the largest 
scarlet oak we ever saw: it was about 4 ft. in diameter, and 
above 100 ft. high. ‘The trunk is straight, and covered with 
a clear smooth bark. Mr. Cooper informed us that he found, 
from some branches which he had had occasion to cut off this 
and other scarlet oaks, that the wood was remarkably hard 
and close-grained. Our readers are aware that the wood, 
when matured, approaches to the same colour as the leaves in 
autumn, viz. a deep scarlet, and that the same observation will 
apply to the wood of trees in general. ‘There are good spe- 
cimens of ZLatrus Sdssafras and L. Benzoin. Among the 
common oaks are some, 54 yards in circumference at the 
surface of the ground, still growing vigorously. Standing at 
the lawn front of the house, the ground descends so gently to 
the Loddon as almost to appear a level surface; a little to the 
right is an artificial cascade, and to the left the river appears 
to be lost in meadow land, which on the opposite bank gra- 


Strathfieldsaye. 675 


dually rises, and is crowned with wood. The house itself is 
low, and altogether unworthy of the place, and there is scarcely 
a flower-bed on the lawn. ‘There is an old orangery, and 
there are some orange trees in tubs, the sides of the latter 
neatly clothed with pine cones, and the surface of the mould 
covered with pebbles about the size of pigeons’ eggs. ‘The 
pine cones, besides giving a rustic appearance, exclude the 
heat; and the pebbles regulate the distribution of the water 
from the watering-pot. The kitchen-garden is of considerable 
extent, with several forcing houses and pits. Altogether, it is 
better than could be expected in a place which had been so 
long neglected; and it is made the very most of by Mr. 
Cooper. Mr. Cooper was educated as a gardener at Bulstrode, 
in the high and palmy days of gardening, under Mr. Haycroft, 
who studied the horticulture of the Dutch in Holland, and 
introduced at Bulstrode the forcing of fruit trees in Dutch 
pits. Mr. Cooper has done the same thing here, and he finds 
that peaches and apricots in pits, like those at Hylands, with- 
out heat, either from flues, dung, or any other means than are 
afforded by the sun and retained by a covering of glass, ripen 
their fruit a month sooner than the trees on the open walls. 
It is a great advantage to Mr. Cooper, that he has been edu- 
cated under Mr. Haycroft; for, while it does not prevent him 
from trying every other manner of forcing, it enables him to 
adopt the Dutch mode with confidence. Our countrymen, 
the Scotch gardeners, on the other hand, are not only practi- 
cally unacquainted with the Dutch mode, but they have the 
prejudices of us Scots to contend with, against adopting any 
thing with which we are not well acquainted. There are, how- 
ever, exceptions among Scotch gardeners; and, among others, 
we may name our esteemed correspondent, Mr. Wood of 
Deepdene. Mr. Cooper forces 25 sorts of figs; the duke, 
like ourselves, esteeming that fruit beyond all others. Some 
trees which Mr. Cooper has removed from a wall to a forcing- 
house are 45 years old. There is a vinery stocked with plants 
6 years old, producing an excellent crop. Mr. Cooper has 
invented a very excellent utensil for sending cut flowers to 
London, or to any distance, without injury: it is simply a 
cylinder of tin, or of any other suitable material, of 3 or 4 feet 
in length, and 8 or 9 inches in diameter. In the centre of this is 
a cylinder of tin of an inch in diameter, which fits into sockets 
in the bottom and in the lid. Round this small cylinder the 
flowers are tied as they are upon a maypole; the pole so 
charged is inserted in the socket in the bottom, then the tube 


is filled with water, and corked, and the lid put on, in which is 
xX 2 


676 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


a socket, which embraces the tube. The case may now be 
sent to any distance, the water keeping the flowers cool and 
fresh. Mr. Cooper informed us that the Duke of Wellington 
gave him some chestnuts which he had received from America, 
gathered from the tree which General Washington planted 
with his own hands, and from which (more fortunate than we 
have been, though we have received chestnuts three times from 
the same tree, once from Mrs. Seaton of Washington, and 
twice from Dr. Mease of Philadelphia,) he has raised three 
er four plants. We should be curious to know on what 
principle these chestnuts were sent to the Duke of Wellington: 
not that the merits of the latter general are at all less than 
those of the former, because we believe that the actions of all 
men are the joint results of their organisation and the circum- 
stances in which they are placed ; but that we should like to 
know the feelings of ‘the sender, and whether he was a Briton 
or an American. We have always had a great respect for the 
straight-forward character of the Duke ae Wellington, and a 
profound admiration of General Washington; but, with refer- 
ence to all that is essentially grand in human nature, we have 
never for a moment placed the former on a par with the latter. 
As to the Duke of Wellington’s private character as a husband 
and a master, all that we have heard at Strathfieldsaye and its 
neighbourhood places him, and also the late duchess, very 
high in our estimation. A spot was pointed out to us where 
-it was intended to erect the new palace, the model for which, 
we were informed, is in one of the rooms of the present house: 
We hope it is not a frigid compilation in the Grecian or Roman 
manner. We should wish to see a magnificent pile in the old 
English or in the Italian style; such as our correspondents 
Mr. Barry and Selim, or Mr. Mallet and Mr. Lamb (figs. 
1436. and 1660. of the Encyclopedia of Cottage Ai chitec- 
ture), could design, based by terraces, and united with the 
scenery by conspicuous offices and out-buildings. ‘The pre- 
sent house is not worth improving for such a park, which, 
when the purchases made by the duke, who, like a wise 
man, does not spend half his income, are added to it, will 
extend 16 miles in length, and include the same length of the 
river Loddon. Eisley length of the river, and dee country 
as far as Southampton, will be seen from the intended palace. 
After all, however, we have no desire to see a palace built at 
Strathfieldsaye; and, if the duke acts in conformity with the 
spirit of the age in mulch he lives, he will divide his estate 
equally between his two sons, and let thenr build what they 
think fit. Henceforth palaces will only be built for public 
purposes ; the tendency among all private persons is no equalisa- 


Swallowfeld Place. GL 


tion; first in knowledge, and, secondly, indeed, consequently, 
in wealth and comfort. 

The charger which the duke rode at Waterloo is kept ina 
paddock adjoining a small flower-garden, from which the late 
duchess used frequently to feed him with bread from her own 
hands. During the battle, the duke was on this horse 15 
hours, without once dismounting, and it has never been ridden 
since that day. It is a small chestnut horse, slightly made, 
and, as it was quite a colt at the time of the battle, it is wonder- 
ful how its strength was equal to the excessive fatigue it must 
have undergone. ‘There is a proverb in some parts of Eng- 
Jand, that a chestnut horse is always a good one, and that it 
will always do more work than any horse of the same size, of 
any other colour, and this horse seems to furnish an illustra- 
tion of its truth. 

Swallowfield Place, Russell, Esq.—The situation is 
nearly flat, with a stream passing through it. The house is 
a large plain building, lately put in thorough repair; and the 
gardens and grounds are undergoing essential ameliorations, 
by the gardener, Mr. Brown. ‘The soil of the garden is 
excellent ; and the walls are of a good height. A number of 
hot-houses are already built, and more are in progress. One 
of the most complete pine-pits in the country is just finished, 
and of this Mr. Brown has promised us a section and descrip- 
tion. In the melon ground is a strawberry stage, composed 
of a bank of earth, at an angle under 45°; the earth supported 
by 1 ft. of brickwork in front, and 3 ft. behind. The space 
between is divided into steps or beds, each 4 in. above the 
other, supported by one brick on edge ; and along each step 
a row of plants are placed, which are renewed every year. 
So circumstanced, the fruit ripens twelve or fourteen days 
before that on the common surface of the garden. Mr. Brown 
grows all his strawberries, in whatever situation they may be 
planted, on one year old plants ; finding, like Mr. Knight, that, 
thus treated, they produce much larger and finer fruit. ‘The 
Louise bonne pear produces here excellent crops of large and 
very beautiful fruit. The kitchen-garden is entered through. 
an avenue of catalpas and rhododendrons; at the end of 
which is a handsome architectural gate; and from this pro- 
ceeds, to the centre of the range of hot-houses, a straight 
broad walk, with two remarkably fine borders of herbaceous. 
plants. The pleasure-ground contains a few fine old speci- 
mens of cedars, magnolias, tulip trees, American thorns, and 
other exotics (including large trees of those beautiful plants, 
Prinus virginiana and P. caroliniana) ; which, if they were 
generally introduced into plantations, would soon be as com-= 

xx 3 


678 Notes on Gardens and Contry Seats :— 


pletely naturalised by the birds as the bird-cherry, being 
equally hardy with that tree. A summer-house of hazel rods 
is in the course of erection her e, which is quite unique in its 
way. <A skeleton of quartering is covered with heath outside, 
and the roof is thatched: the interior is then inlaid with hazel 
rods; not merely disposed in contrasted compartments, as at 
White Knights, Dropmore, Bagshot Park, and other places, 
but arranged as landscapes and buildings in perspective, which 
is done by browning the wood something in the same way as 
figures are produced by cabinet- makers and joiners on tea- 
caddies. The i ingenious inventor is Mr. Mathews of Frimley, 
near Blackwater, ‘Berkshire (see p- 615.); and we are informed 
that a fac-simile 6h this structure, by him, is intended to be 
placed i in Knight’s exotic nursery, King’s Road, Chelsea, for 
the inspection “of those who may wish to avail themselves of 
Mr. Mathews’s talents. In the farm-yard at Swallowfield 
there is an octagon granary, surmounted by a pigeon-house, 
and surrounded by a rack for fodder, covered with a shed, in 
the manner of a veranda: a handsome object, and, at the 
same time, an economical mede of sheltering and feeding 
cattle or young horses. 

Aug. 8. — Reading to Bear Wood. We passed Maiden 
Karly, the boundary plantations of which are so thick of 
trees, that their naked stems are seen through. Opposite, on 
the Woodley Lodge estate, the proprietor, Mr. Wheeble, has 
built some comfortable cottages, in the place of some very 
wretched mud huts which stood there in 1818. ‘These cot- 
tages are in pairs; and each consists of three rooms, with a 
large lean-to pantry, a shed for wood, and a privy. The 
Canine room is a kitchen, 12 ft. by 12ft., and 8 ft. high; the 
bed-reom to the left is 12 ft. by 10 ft.; and that to The right 
is 12 ft. by 9 ft. The floor of the kitchen is one step above 
the exterior surface, and is paved with brick: those of the 
bed-rooms are one step above the kitchen floor, and are 
boarded. All the three rooms have plastered walls and ceil- 
ings : the door to the pantry is from the kitchen. Some of the 
cottages have only one fireplace, in the middle room; others 
have a second, behind the first. The cottagers did not appear 
to set much oalng on the second fireplace; and if that in the 
kitchen had had a cast-iron back (see Lncyc. of Cott. Arch., 
§ 314.), the second would have been quite unnecessary. 
The walls of the cottages are of brick, 4in. thick, with 9-in. 
piers at the doors and windows; and the roofs are thatched 
on poles formed from young trees, the thinnings of the plant- 
ations. The windows. are of latticework, and the doors are 
ledged. The symmetry of the elevation of the two cottages 


Bear Wood. 679 


is preserved, notwithstanding the difference of size of the bed- 
rooms, by the two larger of the latter being towards the centre. 
The chimney stacks, in some of the pairs of cottages, are short 
and plain; in others, somewhat higher, with the flues placed 
in separate diagonal shafts: but, in others, the shafts are long 
and circular, the bricks being formed on purpose, and glazed 
inside. These circular shafts have a square plinth at bottom, 
and square tops, and they are much the handsomest. We 
also found, on enquiry at three of the cottages, that those with 
the long chimney shaits were much less liable to smoke, than 
those the shafts of which were shorter. ‘To each cottage is 
allotted 60 poles of land; and this, with the cottage, is let at 
the very moderate rent of 4/.a year. We know Mr. Wheeble 
to be a most benevolent, intelligent, and liberal man; and we 
must confess that we felt much gratification at seeing this 
practical illustration of his benevolence. stimating the cost 
of each cottage at 40/. (and we do not think they-would cost 
above that sum), the rent charged for the land is not more 
than would be paid for it by a common farmer. 

Bear Wood, John Walters, Esq. M. P.—Being in this neigh- 
bourhood m 1818, we had an opportunity of walking over 
these grounds shortly after they were purchased by the pre- 
sent owner. They then appeared to consist of about 400 acres 
of heathy waste, and about 100 acres of sloping ground 
covered with beech and oak trees. A small piece of water 
was forming on the side of the slope; the walls of the kit- 
chen-garden were built, and the site of the intended house 
was pointed out to us. The place may now be considered as 
finished; and we must say, that it has afforded us more gra- 
tification than any other newly formed place that we have 
seen since we left London. We never before saw a residence 
laid out by Mr. Stuart; and we do think that he has here 
given evidence of his possessing very great taste and judg- 
ment. ‘The taste which he has displayed in leading the walks 
through the grounds, so as to show them and the views of the 
adjacent country to the greatest advantage, is admirable; and 
the extent of these walks, within the space of about 400 acres, 
is nearly eight miles. ‘The puny piece of water, most ridi- 
culously placed on the side of a steep bank, he has extended 
to nearly 30 acres, by filling with it the whole of a valley; 
and other pieces of water have been formed, so as, in all, to 
cover about 40 acres. ‘The shapes of these pieces of water, 
with one trifling exception, are excellent; and they are so 
disposed, and disguised by plantations, relatively to each 
other, that the difference of their levels is scarcely ever ob- 
served, ‘The planting has been executed in masses of one 

Baek 


680 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


kind in one place; and this principle has been carried even 
to the smaller shrubs, the herbaceous plants, and the flowers 
annually planted out in the dressed grounds. ‘The massesin 
groups have not the formality attributed to those of M. Sckell; 
but blend naturally into one another, as first recommended 
by Sir Wm. Chambers, and afterwards by Price, and ourselves. 
We were struck with this mode of planting, on entering the 
approach from the London road. This approach is above a mile 
long, and the greater part of it is planted either on one or both 
sides. ‘The first trees are oaks, blended with a few larches; 
then follow chestnuts, with a few Scotch pines; next sycamores, 
then limes, then elms; next oaks; next larches ; then spruce 
firs, then Scotch pines, then beeches; and, lastly, when arriving 
at what may be called the Park, or perhaps, rather, ferme ornée, 
pines and firs mixed This approach has been recently made 
and planted ; and appears to pass through lands intended to 
be cultivated, with the exception of a narrow strip of forest 
scenery on each side. On arriving at the second gate and 
lodge, we enter the park; where the trees are of about fifteen 
years’ growth, and are admirably disposed. ‘They are so 
thinly sprinkled, that each tree of the pine and fir kind has 
sufficient room to extend its branches from the base upwards, 
without being crowded by the adjoining trees. ‘The effect of 
this is, that a very few trees, irregularly placed, produce the 
appearance, not only of a thick plantation, but of one of the 
greatest variety of outline; a continually varying succession of 
prominences and recesses, of different forms and sizes, being 
presented to the eye in driving along. We consider it one of the 
greatest excellences of this place, that the fir plantations are 
judiciously thinned ; ihe trees being clothed with branches from 
the ground upwards, and their lower branches just touching 
each other, and no more. ‘The stems of the oak are pruned 
toa certain height (some of them, in our opinion, too much so) 5 
but, in general, we have rarely seen plantations so much 
to our mind, with reference to ornamental effect, particularly 
those of the pine and fir tribes. A considerable portion of the 
grounds is preserved in their original wild state, covered with 
heath and dwarf furze; and this part, being passed through 
previously to arriving at the dressed grounds near the house, 
has an excellent effect. ‘The house, toa stranger, appears not 
badly placed ; but, it seems, since the large lake of water was 
formed, a very superior situation has been discovered for it. 
Thither we would certainly recommend it to be taken ; for it 
appears that, even on its present site, it will require to be 
rebuilt before it can be rendered properly habitable. A roof 
so completely caricatured by “ tall-boys,” we do not think we 


Bear Wood. 681 


ever before saw, either in London or the country; unless we 
except that of the new additions to the Duke of Devonshire’s 
mansion at Chatsworth. We by no means dislike the eleva- 
tion of the house at Bear Wood, which may be characterised 
as a cottage villa. ‘There are a handsome porch for driving 
under on the entrance front ; and a semicircular colonnade of 
coupled square columns in the centre of the garden front, with 
an elegant balcony over. Joined to this is a large conserv- 
atory, forming a bend, in Mr. Nash’s manner, and serving as 
a passage to a billiard-room; but, in consequence of the roof 
of this conservatory being very high, and darkened with 
the foliage of vines, the plants below do not thrive, and the 
intention of this elegant appendage is in a great measure 
defeated. On the entrance front of the house there are rather 
too many walks and rides, parallel to each other, seen at 
once: but this may be easily remedied, even if the house be 
retained in its present situation; and entirely avoided, if it 
should be removed. The kitchen-garden appeared to us too 
small, and its situation too low: the wall trees do not thrive ; 
the peaches, in particular, being much infested with the 
mildew, though the nectarines have escaped. We would 
recommend the entire renewal of the trees on a border 
18 in. deep, seldom to be stirred, and never cropped. The 
place in general was in good order and keeping. It was 
shown to us by the gardener, Mr. Howard; who, after ac- 
companying us over all the walks about the lawn, rode with 
us along the drives; which display numerous fine old oaks 
and beeches; sometimes the one tree growing in such close 
contact with the other as to give the appearance of their both 
springing from the same root. In two or three instances 
there is an oak squeezed in between two beeches, as if it had 
been cleft-grafted. There are many thousands of young oaks, 
of vigorous growth, all self-sown, and from 15 ft. to 30 ft. 
high, coming up among ferns (Pteris aquilina), some of the 
fronds of which are 6 ft. and some even 10ft. high. The 
islands, and the promontories and shores of the pieces of water, 
are very judiciously planted: in general, artificial islands are 
wholly covered with wood, and shores are either one mass of 
plantation, or are left wholly bare; but, here, trees and lawn 
are interspersed as they ought to be. Near the house, and 
in some other places, trees have been transplanted so as to 
form small groups; and the roots of these have been most 
judiciously raised a little above the surface, so that each tree 
rises, as it were, from a slight irregular protuberance; than 
which nothing gives a more natural appearance, since this 
protuberance is invariably observed at the roots of trees 


682 Notes on Gardens and Country Seats : — 


which have been self-sown, and which are thinly scattered 
over any surface. Nothing can be more unnatural in its kind 
than the straight stem of a tree rising abruptly out of a level 
surface, without the slightest preparation or basement; it 
looks as if the tree had been cut over from somewhere else, 
and stuck into the ground. 

We had almost forgotten to mention that a pinetum is 
now commencing, which, we hope, will be in the end extended 
to an arboretum, with the trees planted at a sufficient distance 
from each other to allow each to assume its proper size and 
shape. ‘There is, indeed, a want of foreign trees and shrubs 
in the dressed grounds of Bear Wood. ‘ The world’s 
applause” is one rand object with all those who build or 
plant, and to attain this end, in forming the plantations of 
a country residence, it is necessary to produce in them a 
distinctive character from that of the natural woods, or arti- 
ficial plantations, by which they are surrounded. Now this 
can only be effected by disposing the trees in a manner 
different from that which is common in the country where 
the residence is situated; or by the same kind of dispo- 
sition, but with different characters of trees. Hence, in 
the infancy of art, when there are no trees in a country but 
what are indigenous to it; and when these are disposed in 
a natural manner, being, in fact, the remains of open forest 
scenery ; the disposition of the trees of a residence in lines 
and geometrical forms produces, at once, the distinctive cha- 
racter desired. On the other hand, when a whole country 
is enclosed and planted in geometrical lines and forms, the 
natural mode is resorted to for the same end. ‘These two 
styles of landscape-gardening may almost be said to have 
become exhausted in England. A man of wealth and taste 
now hardly acquires any ‘distinction by planting a park with 
indigenous trees, either in the ancient geometrical, or in the 
modern natural manner. This distinction can now seldom 
be produced, but by having recourse to exotic trees, disposed 
either in the natural or in the geometrical manner, or in a 
mixed style, according to local circumstances and the end 
in view. This is the commencement of a third era in the 
progress of landscape-gardening. 

We recommend Bear Wood both to the wealthy citizen 
who wishes to create a country residence, and to the young 
gardener who is desirous of acquiring the art of laying out 
grounds. ‘To the former we recommend it, as showing the 
sort of soil, which, from its general unsuitableness for corn 
culture, as well as from its dryness and its elevated situation, 
may most economically and judiciously be employed in plant- 


Bear Wood. 683 


ations and pleasure-grounds, and as a healthy site fora house. 
Not only is the cost of such land considerably less than 
that of rich soils, but, from its friability, it is more easily 
worked; and, as from its poverty grass and weeds do not 
grow freely on it, the dug grounds are kept hoed, and the 
lawns mown, at less expense. There is also, in such a case, 
the satisfaction of creating, not only a habitable, but a beau- 
tiful residence out of a wild, and apparently useless waste; 
and, in all this, the pleasure is enhanced by the conscious- 
ness that the expense incurred is moderate. No man of 
good taste will ever make choice of a low, flat, dull, sleepy 
situation, and a rich loamy soil, for a country residence. 
Were we to fix upon a spot for building curselves a villa, 
at a short distance from London, on the west side, it should 
be on some elevated knoli on Bagshot Heath; on the east, 
we would select the remains of chalk hills and chalk pits in 
Kent, high above a noble reach of the Thames, like the 
beautiful Elizabethan villa of Mr. Sheriff Harmer, near 
Greenhithe; on the south, we would choose a spot on the 
highest and poorest part of Leith Hill; and on the north, if 
we went beyond the commanding situation of Mr. Longman’s 
villa at Hampstead, we should be at a loss where to stop till 
we had reached Cumberland, where the site of Elleray, the 
residence of the celebrated poet and philosopher, Professor 
Wilson, rises before our imagination. It is only on situations 
that are considerably elevated, and at the same time varied on 
the surface, that the art of landscape-gardening can powerfully 
affect the imagination; and, without operating on the ima- 
gination, no work of this art, or of any other, can ever be 
worth notice as such. Without considerable elevation for 
the site of the house, it is impossible for it to display that 
attitude of command which is the essential cause of the 
emotion of sublimity; and without considerable variation of 
surface, it is equally impossible to add to the sublime, the 
beautiful, the varied, and the picturesque. 

At Bear Wood, the young gardener will learn more of 
landscape-gardening than in any other place which we know, 
within the same distance of London. We will there see a 
practical illustration of the principles of massing, grouping, 
and of every kind of planting; of varying the outline of water; 
of managing pieces of water on different levels; and of judi- 
ciously thinning plantations. 


(To be continued.) 


684 


REVIEWS. 


Art. I. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, 
Rural Architecture, &c., lately published, with some Account 
of those considered the most interesting. 


Anon.: The Gardener’s Dictionary, containing the best and 
newest methods of improving and cultivating the Kitchen, 
Fruit, and Flower Garden and Nursery ; as also for perform- 

ing the practical parts of Agriculture, including the ma- 

naging of Vineyards; with the methods of making and 
preserving Wines, according to the practice of the most 
skilful Vignerons in the several wine countries in Europe. 

Together with Directions for propagating and improving, 

from real practice and experience, all sorts of Timber ‘Trees. 

By Philip Miller, F.R.S., &c. The ninth edition; being 

a copy of the latest edition which was published in the 

Author’s lifetime, and modified to the latest Discoveries in 

Botany and Gardening in all their branches. ‘To be pub- 

lished in 50 8vo numbers, at 1s. each: to form 4 volumes. 


This is one of two simultaneous editions of Miller’s Gar- 
dener’s Dictionary, which are now publishing, or are about 
to be published; one in quarto, and the other in octavo, 
and both without an editor’s name. ‘The specimen before 
us consists of 48 pages and four plates; the letter-press 
is chiefly occupied with botanical descriptions, commenc- 
ing with “bies and terminating with Acacia. We are, there- 
fore, not enabled, from this specimen, to form an estimate of 
the merits of the work, as far as respects practical gardening 
or agriculture ; but we can judge of the general style in which 
it is got up, and of the plates. The greater part of the article 
Abies is the same as that article in the Penny Cyclopedia, 
understood to be prepared by Professor Lindley; but the 
compiler, in the work before us, has ignorantly tacked to it 
several quotations which refer to the genus Pinus, or what is 
vulgarly called the Scotch fir. The historical notices of the 
different species are exceedingly meagre, and throughout the 
whole there are not a few typographical errors: such as deu~ 
drographia for dendrographia, Stanwick for Alnwick, Nichol 
for Nicol, Browne for Brown, semperoriens for sempervirens. 

In giving directions for sowing larch seeds, we are told to 
cover them half an inch deep, which must be an oversight for 


Miller’s Gardener’s Dictionary. 685 


a quarter of an inch; indeed, an eighth of an inch would be 
nearer the most successful practice. 

The worst part of the book is the plates, and they may 
really be described as execrable, particularly Plate III., which 
professes to contain portraits of a larch, a silver fir, a cedar, 
and a Norway spruce fir. ‘The choice of the specimens is 
faulty, inasmuch as they represent the forms that have been 
taken by particular individuals of great age, instead of the 
general form of the species about middle age. The execution 
is so bad, that, without the assistance of the names, we defy 
any one to tell what tree is meant to be represented, with the 
exception of the cedar, which might be guessed at. ‘The 
branches of the larch are made to resemble ostrich feathers; 
and the silver fir is drawn with five leaders ! It would be much 
better for the purchaser if the plates were altogether omitted, 
and the same expense which is now incurred in producing 
them laid out in increasing and improving the letter-press. 

The botanical doings in the book are, through haste or 
ignorance, crude enough, and are devoid of that definitiveness, 
careful accuracy, and clearness, which botanical readers of the 
present day expect. We do not recommend a dictionary. of 
any art or science, for reasons given in the preface to the 
first edition of our Encyc. of Gard., but, where that form is 
adopted, we expect to find the subjects well treated of 
where their letter places them. ‘This is not the case in many 
instances. ‘To take an example or two:—Abronia umbellata. 
Although generic and specific characters are professedly given, 
both are omitted in this. We are told that it is “a small 
but very beautiful and elegant perennial evergreen herbaceous 
plant, producing flowers “surrounded by an “nvolucrum of a 
charming rose colour.” This last clause does not state its own 

“meaning; which is, that the flowers, of a charming rose colour, 
are surrounded by an involucrum. In the description of 
A’brus precatorius, we have only two hints that the plant 
bears leaves at all, and not a syllable is said of their form, 
markings, degree of persistence, &c., and, above all, of 
their extreme sweetness when chewed; nor is the fact hinted, 
that the plant’s trivial name of ‘wild liquorice” is derived 
from the sweetness of the leaves and roots. In the description 
of Acacia cornigera, the following sentence is necessarily per= 
fect nonsense; although a person who knows the plant, as 
many of our gardening friends do, may guess its meaning. 
« The leaves and flowers are small, yellow, and void of scent, 
in a close cylindrical spike, and a inch and a half long.” The 
man who let such a sentence pass could not have an accurate 
guess, not to say knowledge, of the form of the objects described. 


686 Trish Farmer’s and Gardener's Magazine. 


The editor seems so unfamiliar with the botanical epithets, 
as to be unable to spell them accurately : thus we have cineria 
for cinerea, nigrecans for nigricans, stipulacia for stipulacea, 
felicina for filicina, casicides for cassioides ; and typographical 
errors besides in plenty. 

The work is behind the time. By abbreviations and signs 
that could be recognised at first sight, it would be possible to 
express what is expressed in half the space. Not an accent is 
given. The translations are not always literal: thus, we have 
“ Acacia pulchella, zigzag spiny Acacia;” “ nigricans, un- 
equalled winged.” Weare sorry to see a person professing to 
teach on botany, as any one who writes on it does, not better 
qualified for his task. 


Doyle, Martin [the assumed name of an Irish clergyman, who 
had for several years the direction of an agricultural 
school], Author of “* Hints to Small Farmers,” and of many 
useful little Tracts, and Edmund Murphy, late Acting Se- 
cretary to the Horticultural and Arboricultural Society for 
Ireland: The Irish Farmer’s and Gardener’s Magazine 
and Register of Rural Affairs. In monthly numbers, 8vo, 
ls. each. No.1. Nov. 1833. 


If this magazine be properly supported, we shouid antici- 
pate, from what we know of its editors, that it will be one of 
the best of our imitators, numerous as they now are. ‘Uhe 
only doubt that we have as to the work is, the propriety of 
joining a farmer’s magazine with one for gardeners. ‘The 
farmers in England are, at this moment, the only class of 
men in the country who do not read; those in Ireland are 
not likely to be much better; and for this reason the expected 
purchasers of the work must be the country gentlemen and 
the gardeners. We do not think the latter will care much 
for discussions on farming, and therefore we would suggest the 
propriety of separating this shilling magazine into two six- 
penny ones. We throw out these hints for the consideration 
of the editors, most sincerely wishing the success of the 
work, either as it is, or altered as we suggest. ‘The first 
number, now before us, we consider to be a very favourable 
example of what such a work ought to be, notwithstanding 
Mr. Murphy’s apology for it, on the cover, as not being 
a fair specimen, from the more important London periodi- 
cals for October (owing to some accident) not having ar- 
rived in Dublin when he was obliged to go to press. The 
best paper in the number is one by Mr. Murphy, on forest 
planting; another, by him, on late pruning, that is, pruning 
deferred till the trees attain a large size, rather mistakes, as 
we think, the object of Mr. Blaikie in pruning by foreshort- 


Ballard’s Treatise on Trees. 687 


ening. It was no part of Mr. Blaikie’s plan to “ promul- 
gate a system of late pruning,” but rather to diminish the 
injury done to corn fields by hedgerow trees which had not 
been properly pruned in due time. Mr. Murphy considers 
two inches as the maximum diameter of a branch which can 
be safely removed close to the bole; larger branches he would 
foreshorten, that is, cut off at a considerable lateral or second- 
ary branch. He says that he has “seen more trees, not only 
disfigured, but destroyed, by late pruning, than by any other 
malpractice, neglect of thinning alone excepted.” 

In the introduction to the agricultural part of the work, we 
are informed that “ Irish farmers, of the lower classes espe- 
cially, despise any thing that appears in print on the subject 
of agriculture.” The same thing might be said of English 
farmers. ‘The state of agriculture in Ireland is compared 
with what its state was in Scotland about the beginning of 
the last century, and their condition said to be nearly the 
same, except that Ireland is in rather a worse state than we 
are aware of Scotland having ever been in. Scotland being 
now the theatre of the most improved agriculture of the three 
kingdoms, in consequence of the intelligence of her farmers, 
it is very properly argued that Ireland may become equally 
so by the same means. At the conclusion of the work are 
given some extracts, a review, and notices of the transactions 
of Irish provincial horticultural and agricultural societies. 

We hope Mr. Murphy will gratify us by notes of his per- 
sonal inspection of Irish gardens of every description, from 
those of the cottage to those under the care of Mr. Nevin; 
whose paper on villa plantations affords a favourable speci- 
men of his taste. 


Ballard, Stephen: A Treatise on the Nature of Trees and 
the Pruning of Timber Trees; showing the Impossibility 
of increasing the Quantity, or improving the Quality, of 
Timber by Pruning. 12mo. Ledbury, 1833. 

Mr. Ballard describes the manner of the growth of timber 
trees very faithfully. He maintains that mutilation of any 
one part of such trees must necessarily affect every other part, 
by checking its enlargement. Hence he infers, that all pruning 
is prejudicial; more especially the practice of those who 
prune off the branches with a view to enlarge the trunk. This 
latter idea he rejects and with much reason refutes. He is, 
however, chargeable with misrepresentation, when he asserts 
that the sole object of the forest pruner is to obtain bulk of 
stem. This is nottrue; because the length of the bole, and the 
clearness of its grain, are equally the objects and intention of 


688 Foge’s Supplement to his Practical Treatise 


the pruner’s labour; since without both these no timber is 
valued, except for veneers or other cabinetwork. Length 
of stem and clearness of knots, whether dead or alive, con- 
stitute the strength and value of timber ; and this is indirectly 
admitted by the author himself, when he states that fine 
straight boles are formed without the aid of the pruner, but, 
notwithstanding, by what is equally efficient, viz. the proxi- 
mity of other trees, or by the browsing animals of the park or 
forest. By this admission, he not only shows the necessity, 
but also the practicability, of judicious pruning, and thereby 
overturns all he had advanced as condemnatory of the practice. 

That the oak sheds its spray, and the larch many of its 
lower branches, whether standing alone or among other 
trees, is well known; but why is this circumstance noticed by 
the writer? Surely not as an argument against pruning | 
One would think it tells the other way: for what are all our 
manipulations, in this and other processes in the management 
of trees, but to asszst nature to produce qualities as well as 
quantities of her vegetable gifts ? 

Mr. Ballard must know, that, were the oak, beech, Spanish 
chestnut, and many other kinds of trees permitted to stand 
alone, untouched by the knife of the nurseryman the bill 
of the forester, or the bite of cattle, they would only rise into 
vast bushes, more bulky, perhaps, in the aggregate, but wholly 
worthless to the builder. 

Without the least intention of giving offence, especially as 
Mr. Ballard appears well acquainted with the structure of 
timber, we would beg to ask, whether he would choose a beam 
thirty or forty feet long, squared from a but that had never 
been pruned, either by accident or design? It is presumable 
he would not; for, even granting that the numerous knots 
were all sound, the transverse strength of such a beam could 
not be relied on. Mr. Ballard’s antipruning principle is te- 
tally inapplicable to young forest trees; though he avers that 
unpruned apple trees gain greater volume in a shorter time 
than those that are got into form by pruning. Of this there 
can be no doubt. 

Mr. Ballard appears to be an intelligent man; and, had he 
confined his strictures to zmproper pruning, his opinions might 
have been serviceable: but to condemn ali pruning, as being 
not only useless, but injurious, is an opinion with which but 
few will coincide.—J. M. 


Hogg, Thomas, Florist, Paddington: A Supplement to the 
Practical Treatise on the Culture of Florists’ Flowers ; 
containing additional Directions and improved Modes of 


on the Culture of Florist’s Flowers. 689 


cultivating the Auricula, Polyanthus, Tulip, Ranunculus, 

Heartsease, Carnation, Georgina, &c. 8vo. London, 1833, 

published for and sold by the Author. 

These directions are contained in 208 pages, and are en- 
livened by some curious and amusing anecdotes of flowers 
and florists. To the routine practitioner who does every 
thing by rule, and to the young amateur who is anxious to 
know something of the subject, the directions for cultivating 
the flowers will be found useful; while the thinking and expe- 
rienced cultivator will, perhaps, consider the flower lists as 
the most valuable part of the work. By some, this volume 
may be considered dear, as compared with other horticultural 
publications of the same size; but it must be recollected 
that many of these works are mere compilations, while this 
by Mr. Hogg is original. 

In raising tulips from seed, some florists make choice of 
that which has been produced by variegated flowers: in 
which case it is alleged that the offspring breaks, or be- 
comes variegated, much sooner than that from plain or self- 
coloured flowers. Other florists, on the contrary, select their 
seeds from plain flowers, and wait with patience many years 
till the flowers of the offspring become variegated. Apply- 
ing the general principle of cross fecundation to tulips, it has 
been of late recommended to fecundate plain flowers with 
variegated ones, in the very rational hope that the offspring 
will the more speedily become variegated, and will, at the 
same time, form strong healthy bulbs. Mr. Hogg, as we do, 
entertains strong hopes from this last mode, and invites all 
florists to give it a fair trial. (p. 45.) 

An article is given on the heartsease ; a flower towards which 
florists have lately turned their attention. By cross impreg- 
nation of the species Viola tricolor, lutea, grandiflora and 
ameoena, all of which are included under the term heartsease, 
innumerable flowers have been produced, admired for their 
size and for the richness and disposition of their colours. A 
list is given of nearly 100 select sorts, which, Mr. Hogg in- 
forms us, are at present in great request, and may be obtained 
of him. Nothing can be easier than the culture of this 
plant, and, indeed, we find nothing in Mr. Hogge’s short 
article on it to add to the directions already given by Mr. 
Gorrie. (Vol. VIII. p. 573.) 

The new German China asters, introduced within these 
three years, are strongly and deservedly recommended by 
Mr. Hogg. We were very much struck with them, in the 
beginning of September last, in the beautiful garden of the 
Misses Garnier, at Wickham, Hants; where they were raised 

Vo., IX. — No. 47. vaaNG 


690 Hogo’s Supplement to his Treatise on Floriculture. 


from a choice selection of seeds, purchased from Mr. Charl- 
wood. ‘The flowers are much larger than those of the com- 
mon China aster; in general, “ they are more double, and 
the colours, whether plain or striped, are more rich, distinct, 
and varied. ‘The seeds should be sown the first week in April, 
in order to get the plants strong and forward, either in pots 
or seed-pans, keeping the sorts distinct; the pots may then 
be placed in a cold frame till the plants come up.” When 
they are of the proper size, they may be transplanted into beds 
or borders, like the common varieties. A few of the finest and 
most distinct varieties are: — Deep red; deep red, striped; pale 
red; pale red, tipped with white; dark blue; dark blue, striped ; 
pale blue; pale blue, striped; yellow-tinged; white; silver 
white; flesh-coloured; ash-grey, &c. 

We recommend the following observations to the attention 
of the young gardener: old ones will, of course, reject them 
with contempt:—‘* Gardeners unaccustomed to flowers are, 
in general, bad propagators; few of them have any right 
notions of piping; and, though nothing is more simple, they 
never set about it as if they wished to succeed. They are, 
likewise, great bunglers in layering; there is not one in ten 
whose assistance I would claim upon the most pressing occa- 
sion, if I were obliged to leave the operation to him, uncon- 
trolled and unlooked after: whereas I could trust implicitly 
to any amateur cobbler, tailor, weaver, or barber, who had 
had the least practice with his own flowers, to do this layering in 
the most satisfactory manner. ‘This I know, from experience, 
that very few professed gardeners, unless fond of the flower 
itself [the carnation], seem to take any care of it, either to 
treat it rightly, or to bloom it well.” (Supp. p. 130.) 

Speaking of the arrangement of tulips, Mr. Hogg states 
that the hints given by us (Vol. II. p. 309.) for an improve- 
ment in this department ‘ were rejected by all our amateurs, 
who pretended to any taste in these matters, as totally inap- 
plicable.” So were hints founded on the same principle, 
offered by us to the Royal Academicians, in a pamphlet pub- 
lished nearly thirty years ago, for classing the pictures in the 
annual exhibitions at Somerset House: that is, placing all 
landscapes by themselves; all historical pictures by them- 
selves; all portraits, &c. &c. We are certain, however, that 
these hints will, sooner or later, be adopted; possibly even 
in the Gallery now building. What we proposed to do in a 
show tulip-bed was founded on the same general principles 
that we applied to the exhibition of pictures; viz. to preserve 
each class or kind by itself, such as roses, bybloemens, 
bizarres, &c., instead of indiscriminately mixing them from 


Royle’s Botany, gc, of the Himalayan Mountains. 691 


one end of the bed to the other. By the mode suggested, 
we maintained, and do maintain, that the general effect 
would be more impressive, and the examination in detail far 
more interesting and instructive; and every one capable of 
generalising on the subject of arrangement and variety, 
though he never saw a tulip, will allow this to be the case. 
That the “amateurs of taste among florists” should not allow 
this also, is, to us, not surprising: we attribute it to their 
prejudice for established custom, in most cases, and in others 
to their incapability of taking an enlarged view of the subject. 
The limited sphere of beauty within which a florist’s admira- 
tion. is commonly confined, precludes ordinary minds from 
taking in enlarged ideas. We refer the reader to what we 
have said on this subject in Vol. II. p. 309., and in various 
other parts of this Magazine. 

Having now noticed some of the useful matter contained in 
Mr. Hoge’s work, we shall next refer to some of those por- 
tions of it which we consider curious or amusing; such as 
the anecdotes concerning Isaac Kmmerton, a celebrated 
auricula-grower (p. 158.), and his unlucky pupil. (p. 161.) 
Emmerton, it seems, was a nurseryman at Barnet, but was 
imprisoned, and ultimately ruined, by the clergyman of his 
parish, who was a magistrate, and whom Emmerton had in- 
sulted by hanging him in effigy ona tree in his garden. The 
story of Captain M‘Tulpin (a nickname for a Lancashire 
florist, who endeavoured to settle, some years ago, in the neigh- 
bourhood of London, and who commenced a work on tulips) 
will be understood and relished by some of the fancy. In 
the last page of his work, Mr. Hoge refers to the bad debts 
in his ledger; in which, he says, there are sixty names, noble 
and ignoble, and that the conduct of twenty of these has been 
fraudulent and dishonest in the highest degree. He adds, 
that he would publish their names, did he not feel for their 
unoffending offspring. 


Royle, J. Forbes, F.L.S. and G.S. &c. &c. &c., late Superin- 
tendent of the Honourable East India Company’s Botanic 
Garden at Saharunpore: Illustrations of the Botany and 
the other branches of the Natural History of the Hima- 
layan Mountains, and of the Flora of Cashmere. London, 
1833. 4to. In 10 Parts, 20s. each. Part I. 10 coloured 
lithographs, 40 pages of letterpress. 

The first part of this work was published in the middle of 

October. Of illustrations, it contains 10 lithographs, which 


bear coloured figures of the following objects : one animal, the 
Meee 


692 Smith's Treatise on the Culture of 


Lagomys alpinus Desm.: plants; Anemone discolor, Hantn- 
culus polypétalus, Jsopyrum erandiflorum and microphyllum, 
Delphinium cashmerianum, comin heterophyllum, Cimi- 
cifuga frigida, Mecondpsis aculeata, Corydalis cashmeriana and 
Govanidna, Tauschérza jlasenenn. Viola sérpens, renifor- 
mis, and kunawurénsis, and Gréwz7a elastica. All these plants 
are pretty, or interesting for their rarity; but the Delphinium, 
Aconitum, Cimicifuga, and Cory rdalides are showily orna- 
mental. No text descri iptive of any of the objects of these 
figures is supplied in the first part, but is to be published in 
the second. ‘The omission of it from the first is stated to be 
owing to the length to which “ the observations respecting the 
geographical description of the Flora of Northern India have 
exicudedk ” These are long: they occupy, in the first part, 
40 quarto pages, and are not concluded. But, although long, 
they are very interesting. ‘They communicate a multitude OF 
facts on the characters “of the tracts of country explored, of 
their boundaries, elevation, soil, atmosphere, temperature, 
conditions of climate according to season; and of circum- 
stances of this nature. ‘The facts, and the lists of plants, &c., 
as successively mentioned, are compared with those of other 
countries in the four quarters of the globe; and one of the 
objects of this comparison seems to be, ** to show, that, in the 
[Himalayan and Cashmerian] climates in which these varied 
productions grow, others from different countries may be suc- 
cessfully introduced.” 

This work will be valuable in supplying a rich mass of facts 
on the natural history (using this term in an extended sense) 
of a part of the world, of which our knowledge has hitherto 
been very vague and partial. For the sake of science, we 
wish the work were not produced in a style so costly, that but 
few can possess themselves of it. 


Smith, John, nearly twenty years Gardener to Dykes Alex- 
ander, Esq., of Ipswich: A ‘Treatise on the artificial 
Growth of Cucumbers and Melons, conjointly with that of 
Asparagus, Mushrooms, Rhubarb, &c.; comprehending 
Observations on the methods now in use for the growth of 
Cucumbers, with a full explanation of an improved mode 
of culture, by which, with a much less quantity of the fer- 
menting substance, and a tithe of the care and attention 
which is generally bestowed upon them, not only is success 
rendered certain, even in the most adverse season, and fruit 
of the finest appearance produced, but Asparagus, Mush- 
rooms, Rhubarb, &c., are at the same time produced, of 
excellent quality, and with the greatest possible celerity: 


Cucumbers, Melons, Asparagus, Mushrooms, §c. 693 


to which are added, Brief Observations on the crowth of 
early Potatoes. 12mo. Ipswich, 1833. 


The author sets out with some observations on the different 
modes hitherto employed in growing cucumbers in hot-beds 
or pits. ‘These modes, he truly observes, are very numerous ; 
but he confines his remarks to “a very few,” which include 
the principles of all the different modes. The first which he 
notices is the ‘‘ common dung-bed mode of growing,” which 
he objects to, on account of the loss of time, labour, and 
heat; and also on account of the unequal settlement of the 
bed. The next mode is that of Mr. Knight, the President 
of the Horticultural Society, described in Vol. IV. p. 368., 
which Mr. Smith says he tried, and found defective, two 
or three years before Mr. Knight recommended it.  Plat- 
forms, supported by posts or brick piers, were tried for 
several years; and of this kind of bed Mr. Smith observes, 
“although the best cucumbers which ever came under my 
notice were produced in it, and balsams 16 ft. in cireumfe- 
rence, yet, for want of a proper substance against which to 
build the linings, and the almost entire destitution of means 
to supply heat by absorption and conduction, experience has 
taught me that the principle cannot with safety be depended 
upon, when used for early forcing.” (p. 7.) Brick pits are 
allowed by Mr. Smith to have various good qualities, espe- 
cially M‘Phail’s pits; but Mr. Smith objects to all fixed 
structures, as being “ perpetual habitations for millepedes 
[meaning woodlice],” and also because they prevent the slope 
of the glass from being altered according to the season; 
Mr. Smith very properly observing, that the elevation of the 
glass ought to be considerable in winter, but that it cannot 
well be too little in the hottest weather of summer. 

Having disposed of these three modes of growing, which 
may be considered the types of all those which have hitherto 
been adopted, Mr. Smith’s next chapter is on rearing plants 
from seed, “ fit for the fruiting-bed ;” which we pass over to 
the succeeding one, which treats of Mr. Smith’s mode of 
building a cucumber bed. ‘The materials wanted are, a 
quantity of stones or brickbat rubble; a quantity of good 
stable dung, or a mixture of it with other substances, such as 
leaves of trees, in a medium state of fermentation, &c.; a 
quantity of wattled work; some good soil, laid where it can 
become dry; and a common frame and lights, from 4 to 6 ft. 
wide, and 12 ft. long. In building the bed, the first thing is 
to form a foundation, in the back and front, of rubblework, 
enclosed with wattled work. ‘The width of these foundations may 
. be between 2 and 3 ft., and the height of the north foundation 
¥¥Y 3 


694 Smith’s Treatise on Cucumbers, Melons, &c. 


about 15 in. on the outside, and that of the south about 3 in. 
lower on the outside; so that the surface of the two founda- 
tions when finished shall be on one uniform slope from back 
to front. Outside of these foundations four posts should be 
previously inserted for regulating the height of the dung, 
4 ft. high from the ground behind, and 3 ft. 6 in. from 
it in front. The next thing is to build two dung walls 
on the top of the foundations, to the same height as the 
posts, trimming the inner sides of these walls, and making 
the bottom of the space between them quite clean. This 
space must then be covered by pieces of wood, strong enough 
to bear the soil in which the plants are to be grown; on these 
pieces are to be laid wattled hurdles, on which are placed 
about nine inches of dry dung, or fermenting dung, for the 
plants to feed upon. The next operation is to put on the 
frame and lights, &e., stopping up the ends of the vault or 
space between the beds with pieces of board and litter, and 
building a lining very firmly against them. Litter must be 
also placed against the bottom of each rubble foundation, 
high enough to keep in the steam. Such is an outline of 
the structure of Mr. Smith’s cucumber bed ; all the rest may 
be easily anticipated by any good cucumber grower. 

Mr. Smith takes advantage of the heat and steam gene- 
rated in the vault between the two dung walls, to force 
asparagus or other articles, or to grow mushrooms, in an 
adjoining frame. For this purpose, he places a common 
frame at one end of his cucumber bed, and admits the steam 
from the vacuity between the walls into it, by means of a metal 
or wooden tube 2 or 3 inches in diameter, and 3 or 4 feet 
Jong. One end of this tube is placed in the vault, and the other 
in a hole in the side of the frame. A thinking gardener will 
conceive all the rest, or have recourse to the work itself. 

In treating of the management of the cucumber and mush- 
room, Mr. Smith considers the best mode of destroying those 
pests of the gardener, woodlice, to be enticing them to some 
shady spot “ by dry litter, crums of cheese, &c., and then 
pouring boiling water upon them.” To prevent the rank 
steam of the dung linings from entering the bed at the pro- 
jections of the sashes, when air is given, Mr. Smith nails a 
strip of Russian bast, 18 in. wide, on the upper part of the 
back of the frame, turning it over the upper rail of the lights, 
and fastening it to the lights or rafters so as to prevent its 
being blown down. When air is given, this keeps out high 
and strong winds as well as steam. 

It is evident that melons may be grown in the same way ; 
and Mr. ‘Smith remarks, that the necessary balance of heat 


Literary Notices. 695 


and moisture, which, in Persia, arises from the very nature of 
the climate and mode of cultivation, is easily obtained in his 
bed, “ by throwing a sufficient quantity of water into the 
vault beneath the wattled work, to cause, by means of a strong 
heat, a constant and great exhalation,” &c. The stems of 
the melon-plants he would train on a trellis elevated 2 or 3 
inches above the soil. 

We have now, we think, given a general idea of Mr. Smith’s 
mode of growing cucumbers and melons; but, in order to 
adopt it with facility and success, the work itself will require 
to be referred to. Our own opinion is, that the mode is 
excellent, and particularly adapted for amateurs in small gar- 
dens. Rhubarb or sea-kale might be beautifully forced in the 
vault ; and by a very little management, pelargoniums might 
be kept in the adjoining frame, if it were not thought neces- 
sary to force asparagus or grow mushrooms in it. ‘The book 
is very modestly and sensibly written, and we have been very 
much gratified by its perusal, and by a passage in the dedi- 
cation to his master, in which Mr. Smith expresses “ the 
deep veneration and respect which have been inspired by the 
general good feeling” which has been exercised towards him 
** during a long servitude.” It cannot be too deeply impressed 
on the mind of every master that he has it in his power to 
render not only the individuals who are his servants, but their 
wives and families, comparatively happy or miserable. Again 
we recommend this work to all cucumber and melon growers. 


Art. II. Literary Notices. 


A JouRrNAL of Botanyhas been commenced by Dr. Hooker. 
It is to be published in quarterly numbers in demy octavo; 
each number is to contain eight plates, of which four are to be 
coloured: price 7s. 6d. It is, in effect, a new series of the 
far-famed Botanical Miscellany. 

A new edition of Miller’s Gardener’s Dictionary, to appear 
in monthly quarto parts, is in preparation. Who the editor 
is, is not mentioned, but the list of contributors contains 
twenty-four names, eminent in botanical or horticultural 
science; almost the whole of whom are, or have been, con- 
tributors to this Magazine. 

A Catechism of Gardening, for the Use of Village Schools and 
Coltagers. We observe a first part of a contribution of this 
title, by a friend of ours, in the November number of the 
British Farmer’s Magazine. When the treatise is completed, 


it will be sold in a detached form. 
yy 4 


696 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. I. General Notices. 


NarTionaL Education. — After the pains which we have taken in this 
Magazine, in the Mag. Nat. Hist.,in a pamphlet published in Paris in 1828, 
and in another printed in London in 1829 and distributed gratis, it may 
readily be conceived that we are highly gratified by seeing the subject brought 
before Parliament in a masterly manner ; and assuming a conspicuous place 
in both the Hdind. and the For. Quart. Reviews. In the latter work, more 
especially (No. xxiv. for Oct., 1833), a lucid account has been given of the 
system of national education established in Prussia in 1819, to which, and 
to The Speech of Mr. Roebuck, M.P. for Bath, on National Education 
(London, 1833, Pamph., 3d.), we would most earnestly direct the attention 
of such of our readers as take an interest in the subject. The law on the 
subject of national education in Prussia is particularly gratifymg, and there 
are only two improvements which we can suggest in it, if adopted in this 
country. In Prussia it is provided, that, besides a proper school, with all 
suitable books, instruments, pictures, models, a garden, &c., there shall be 
provision made for teaching gymnastic exercises. Now, we would suggest 
that, in connection with these gymnastic exercises, the boys should be 
taught some of the more useful mechanical operations, such as carpentry, 
masonry, smith’s work, &c.; and the girls the practice of cookery, and 
various in-door works. It is already most happily provided by the Prussian 
system, that every school shall have a garden, in order to teach gardening 
and agricultural operations to the boys, and, to a certain extent, to the 
girls, as in Bavaria, &c. The next pomt which we would suggest, in the 
adoption of a plan of national education in this country, would be the 
practice in Bavaria, of teaching no particular religion in the schools, but 
allowing the children, if their parents desired it, to be absent from the school 
one of the working days of the week, say Saturday, to be taught the 
religion of their parents by the clergyman of that religion, leaving the 
Sunday as it is. This would give some additional labour to the clergy o 
every denomination, but they would still have five days out of the seven at 
their own disposal: besides, this early instruction would diminish their 
labours when the children were become men and women. For what are 
the duties of a clergyman but education, only directed to the man instead 
of to the child? We are perfectly satisfied that no system of national 
education that combines religious instruction with secular learning will 
ever be effective in attainmg the grand object of national education; that 
is, of educating the whole population; for the obvious reason, that the 
whole can never be brought to think in the same manner on religious 
subjects. — Cond. 

A Notice of a newly invented Liqud Mixture for destroying various Species 
of Insects which infest Plants.—Sir, Mr. Taylor, a friend of mine, and 
myself, have taken great pains to find out something serviceable for 
destroying or retarding the progress of some of those pernicious kinds of 
insects so troublesome to gardeners, such as the brown and white sealy 
bug, caterpillars, green and black aphis, red spider, wireworm, and the 


General Notices. 697 


beetle which destroys the young shoots of various shrubs and plants in 
the spring, at the time they are bursting. I am happy to say that we have 
succeeded in our object beyond our expectation, in producing a solution 
free from all poisonous or pernicious matter: the contents of it are so 
harmless that it may be used with the greatest safety upon the most 
delicate plant or fruit. As the production of this mixture has cost us 
some considerable labour and expense, we intend to confine the manu- 
facture of it to ourselves. We have been able to bring it into a very 
portable compass, and this effect subserves the sending of it to any distance 
without an inconvenient expense, insomuch that one gallon, when diluted 
with twenty gallons of water, will be sufficiently strong for use, and in 
general it may be applied with the garden engine or syringe. The con- 
servatory or green-house, when it is applied to the plants in them, should 
be shut up close, and rendered a little warm, and the evening be preferred 
for the time of making the application. This may be repeated as often as 
it is thought necessary, for it will be generally found that the insects will 
not disappear rapidly, but they, particularly the green fly, will leave the 
plants by degrees, while the influence of the applied mixture on the plants 
themselves will be such as to greatly promote their growth, and the pro- 
duction of a healthy bloom on their foliage. The cost of one gallon will 
not amount to more than Is. 6d. It is not our intention to supply it to 
the public until it has been tried by some one for two or three months 
previous, as it requires more time to destroy some inseets than others, 
such as the scale-like ones. We are desirous to give any individual an 
opportunity to subject our preparation to a fair trial for two or three 
months, and shall be extremely happy to supply any person with a 
quantity sufficient for a trial of its merits, gratis, and with directions. 
Should you think it desirable to make a trial, perhaps some one near you, 
through your recommendation, might be inclined to prove its effects, so 
that you might see the effects of it personally. The solution, to answer 
the above statements, will require to be made up in three distinct portions, 
so as to act upon the whole of the different insects. Should you think 
our labours worthy of your notice, we shall be extremely happy to forward 
any other information that lies in our power along with the solution. We 
remain, Sir, yours, &c.— William Taylor and James Rollins. 9. Richmond 
Terrace, Liverpool, November 26. 1832. 

It was a long time before we had an opportunity of getting the value of 
the liquid sent put to the test, but at last we found one at Gunnersbury, 
the gardens of which have been lately put under the direction of Mr. Mills, 
the author of a valuable paper on the cucumber, published in an early 
volume of the Trans. Hort. Soc., and quoted in our Encyc. of Gard. Mr, 
Mills’s letter is as follows : — 

“ Sir, Agreeably to your wish, I herewith send you the result of the 
experiments made with Taylor and Rollins’s mixture, which you were so 
kind as to send me. I tried it, in the state in which I received it, on a 
pine fruit infested with the scale, with a svringe, and made the fruit quite 
wet all over; it killed the scale, and I did not perceive that it injured 
the fruit. used it, reduced in strength, as recommended, syringing with 
it the pine plants all over, every other day, but it did not appear strong 
enough in that state to destroy the scale. I also syringed with it, reduced 
as recommended, plants of the Thunbérgia alata, infested with the red 
spider: it did not kill them. Isoaked two crowns of Providence pine 
twelve hours in the liquid as received, and it killed the crowns. I think 
if about one gallon were mixed with ten gallons of water, it would not be 
too strong for the most tender plants: Lam trying it in that state, and shall 
have much pleasure in sending you the result. On the whole, I think it 
likely to be useful; and wish well to Mr. Taylor and Mr, Rollins for 


698 General Notices. 


their attempt to destroy some of the enemies to the welfare of the objects 
of our care. I would recommend them to publish their method of 
preparing the mixture, as much more likely to answer their purpose, at 
least that is my opinion; and I will, should they do so, be a subscriber, if 
the subscription is not more than 5 or 10 shillings. Perhaps it would be 
as well if they were to let as many people as they can have some of the 
mixture, to try it, before they attempt to offer it by subscription. Iam, 
Sir, yours, &c. — George Mills. Gunnersbury, August 28. 1833. 

Breathing Places for Towns.— This subject, which we noticed at length 
in Vol. V. p. 686., and in different other parts of this Magazine, has, to our 
agreeable surprise, been taken up by Parliament, on the motion of Mr. 
Slaney. The report on the subject having appeared in all the newspapers, 
we need only state here, that it points out various modes in which the 
breathing places in and about London might be extended, and that it enters 
into similar details with reference to some of the larger country towns. 
Though we class reports of this sort among attempts at petty legislation, 
which would never be made under a proper representative system, yet we 
hail it as a symptom of a better feeling existing towards the poor. Most 
assuredly the time is not far distant, when the wants of the poor will be 
attended to as well as those of the rich; but this must have a‘beginning, 
and Mr. Slaney’s report may be the entering of the wedge. We hope, 
when trees and shrubs are planted in these walks, that as many different 
sorts as will grow in the given situation and climate will be employed. 
It is disgraceful to the taste of the Commissioners of the Woods and 
Forests that they have employed nothing but the common mixture in the 
Regent’s Park; which, as we have often said, and shal] continue to repeat, 
might have been one grand arboretum, such as could not be produced in 
any other country. 

The Application of Steam to Agricultural Purposes is said to have lately 
called forth a powerful and effective engine in France; and it has, at the 
same time, produced a steam-digging machine in England. This engine, 
an imperfect model of which we saw three years ago (see Vol. VI., 
p- 106.), has lately been so far improved, that a patent has been taken 
out for it, by Mr. Philips. It will be found figured and described in 
Gordon’s Journal of Locomotion, for February, 1833. We have lately seen 
the model of another machine, which may be applied to the same purpose, 
and, as it appears to us, with much greater chance of success. At one 
operation, it could be made to plough, pulverise, roll, sow, and harrow 
a breadth of 10 ft. or 12 ft., at the rate of 5 or 6 miles, and, consequently, 
between 7 and 8 acres per hour. The machine might, no doubt, be im- 
pelled at double that rate; but it is questionable whether at such a velocity 
the work of sowing could be properly performed. The present, however, 
is not the time for bringing out such a machine in England, where the 
farmers, in most districts, are obliged to take down and conceal the wheels 
of their threshing machines, if these have not been already burned by their 
labourers. 

Chinese Roses may be propagated from single Buds, as Grape Vines are 
propagated, — The single bud, with a quarter of an inch of the stem both 
above and below it, is placed just under the soil, under a bell glass; the 
leafstalks and leaves standing upright as in a cutting. A single bud of 
Rosa semperflorens sanguinea was planted on July 26., and on Sept. 8. 
the bud had grown nearly four inches, and a blossom bud was formed. On 
Oct. 9. it was six inches high, and side shoots were being produced. — 
Charles M. Willich. London, Oct. 23. 1833. 

The Melon’s Affection for Water. (p.591.) — The author of the Do- 
mestic Gardener's Manual may not be far wrong in deeming the melon 
partly of an aquatic habit, from its roots having grown into a water cistern. 


Domestic Notices : — England. 699 


In vol. ii. of the Journal of the Royal Geographical Society is a very inter- 

esting account, taken from the papers of the late Mr. Wm. Mooreroft, of 

the floating gardens of Cashmere, where both melons and cucumbers are 

grown in great perfection. The beds are described as only 2 ft. deep and 

i ft. wide, and of various lengths. — Charles M. Willich. London, Oct. 23. 
833. 

Foreign Grapes. — We have never seen foreign grapes, whether from the 
continent or Portugal, in greater abundance, of better quality, or cheaper, 
than they are this season. Nothing can exceed the size and beauty of the 
Hamburgh or Frankenthal grapes, brought from Holland, and sold in Lon- 
don from 1s. to Is. 6d. a pound. Arriving in less than twenty-four hours by 
the steam-packets, they have all the plumpness and bloom of fresh-gathered 
fruit. The black Portugal grapes also arrive in little more than a week 
by means of the steam-packets; and though part of the bloom and fresh- 
ness of appearance of their berries is lost, yet for eating, though not for 
show, they are uninjured. Were there a proper demand for eating grapes 
from Portugal, the Muscats and Frontignacs would doubtless be cultivated 
there, when the poor man in this country would be able to have on his 
table as good grapes as the richest. The same may be said as to the pine- 
apple, which doubtless might be cultivated in Portugal at far less expense 
than in England, and steam would soon transport them to the remotest 
parts of Britain, nay of Europe. After a few more years of struggling, 
French wines will be as cheap in England as in France. Thus, then, the 
tendency of all things is to equalisation, and those who now produce every 
thing will ultimately also enjoy every thing. — Cond. 

Bees are particularly fond of the flowers of the snowberry bush (Symphoria 
racemosa Ph.): so 1 find, and I would, in consequence, recommend. that 
numerous plants of this shrub be planted near to apiaries. 

Crocuses of all Kinds, m abundance, should also be planted in the same 
situation. Their precocity will invite the bees abroad, when the air is 
chilly; and, if the erocuses grow at a distance, the bees will be unable to 
return to the hives. The crocuses are, besides, very ornamental, particu- 
larly many of the new sorts, and, by their early flowering, are cheering ob- 
jects to the human eye.— Wm. Godsall. Hereford, Oct. 16. 1833. 

Ionce made a list, not to be found just now, of the species of plants 
whose flowers I had observed bees to most frequent. 1 remember that 
the flowers of that interesting miniature shrub, the Sedum populifolium, 
Bot. Mag. 21). (Anacampseron populifolia Haworth), were visited as much 
or more than the flowers of any other plant in my list: — J. D. 

Bees are remarkably fond of the flowers of the Cuscuta sinénsis, now 
(Nov. 5.) profusely in bloom, and filling the air with its fragrance, in Mr. 
Malcolm’s nursery, Kensington. — Cond, 


Art. II. Domestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


Proressor Mirbel, of the Jardin des Plantes at Paris, and the French Go- 
vernment Architect, M. Rohault; were on a mission to this country, in 
December last, for the purpose of precuring information on the construc- 
tion of hot-houses, and on the different modes of heating them by hot 
water, steam, &e. Neither of these gentlemen know a word of English, 
and they only stayed in the country about a week. It is intended to reno- 
vate the hot-houses in the Jardin des Plantes, and to exhibit there different 
modes of construction, and of warming and ventilating. 


700 Domestic Notices: — England. 


Grant Thorburn, Esq. the celebrated seedsman of New York, the 
Lawrie Todd of Galt’s novel of that name, arrived in London from New 
York, in the last week of October, and, after remaining a few weeks, will 
proceed to Scotland to visit his father (who is still alive, and ninety-two 
years of age), in the neighbourhood of Dalkeith. Mr. Thorburn proposes 
to return to London in February, and to embark again for America in 
March, taking with him an extensive assortment of trees, plants, and seeds. 
Mr. Thorburn assures us that he has seen no seed or plant establishment in 
or about London, not even excepting Chubb’s splendid shop in Newgate 
Street, or the Bedford conservatories, at all to be compared to his own 
store in New York. Mr. Thorburn has also brought with him his auto- 
biography, with the intention of publishing it in London. — Cond. 

Sheffield Botanic Garden.— The subscription for this establishment is 
going on rapidly. Above 6000/. have been already subscribed, and as soon 
as the subscription amounts to 10,000/. land is to be purchased. The 
Duke of Devonshire and most of the nobility and gentry in the neighbour- 
hood, patronise this undertaking. (Weekly True Sun, Nov. 3.) 

A public Cemetery has recently been proposed for Manchester and its 
vicinity. By a prospectus which has been sent us, it appears that the 
capital is to be raised in shares of 10/. each. We wish the scheme success, 
and hope a sufficiently extensive piece of ground will be purchased, and 
that it will be laid out in an appropriate style. We say appropriate, be- 
cause we have never yet seen a British cemetery appropriately laid out. 
The best is Liverpool, because the artist had only to follow the accidental 
features of the spot. In general the great fault is the employment of 
curved lines in the walks, which renders the cemetery like a pleasure 
ground, instead of giving it a distinctive character. In our forthcoming 
Encyclopedia of Landscape-Gardening we shail have a good deal to say 
on this subject. — Cod. 

A Chalybeate Spring, of extraordinary strength, has lately been brought 
into notice at Dorton Park, the seat of C. S. Ricketts, Esq., near Brill, in 
Buckinghamshire. The situation is singularly hilly and romantic, and very 
little known to the public, having been, till lately, almost inaccessible for 
want of roads. Notwithstanding this, Dorton House is an immense struc- 
ture, built in the time of Queen Elizabeth; and the park was laid out, or at 
least improved, in modern times, by the celebrated Brown. The present 
spirited proprietor is erecting a magnificent Grecian buildmg as a bath 
room, from the designs of Mr. James Hakewil!, and the grounds are laying 
out by our esteemed friend Mr. Main, who speaks with rapture of the 
situation; and, from the high opinion we have of his taste, we feel con- 
fident he will make the grounds among the finest of the kind in England. 
An account of the spa has been published in a pamphlet, sold by Whit- 
taker and Co., entitled, Lhe History of the Dorton Chalybeate, &c., by F. 
Knight, surgeon, Brill. 

The True Service trees (of which there are two, the apple-fruited and the 
pear-fruited) in the Horticultural Society’s gardens, have this year borne 
an abundant crop. We could wish such of our correspondents as have an 
opportunity, to look at these handsome trees, with a view to their more 
frequent introduction in pleasure grounds, and even orchards. The 
nurserymén might easily import plenty of plants of the true service from 
Paris, Bollwiller, or Tarascon. — Cond. 

Of the Wheat of the Neighbourhood of Victoria, a Village in the Province of 
Caraceas, which Humboldt, in his Personal Narrative, p. 104—10%, has 
noticed as being very preductive, and as ripening, in Victoria, in 70 or 75 
days from the sowing, Dr. Hamilton, 15. Oxford Place, Plymouth, has re- 
ceived seeds from Sir R. K. Porter, and distributed them in small quantities 
to various individualsin Britain. He has sent us 125 grains, which we have 


Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 701 


placed in hands that will properly apply them; and eventually, we trust, 
enable us to communicate the result. We are, however, altogether doubtful 
of “its coming to maturity” in this climate “in the singularly short space of 
time spoken of by Humboldt ;” and as the grains “appear smaller, and of 
a darker colour,” than those of our own wheats, we scarcely at all partici- 
pate in Dr. Hamilton’s sanguine expectations respecting it: still this is no 
reason why every experiment should not be tried. Dr. Hamilton, after 
soaking two grains for 24 hours, in a solution of oxalic acid, sowed them 
on August 26., and on August 29. he wrote—“ They are now above 
ground, in a pot in one of my windows, and I am in the hope of their per- 
fecting their crop in November.” Dr. Hamilton conceives the possibility 
of three crops in a year being attained, “ even in this cold country, in 
favourable seasons and situations.” 


Art. III. Floricultural and Botanical Notices of new Plants, and 
of old Plants of Interest, supplementary to the latest Editions of 
the “ Encyclopedia of Plants,’ and of the “ Hortus Britannicus.” 


Curtis’s Botanical Magazine ; each monthly Number containing eight plates ; 
3s. 6d. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Hooker, King’s Professor of 
Botany in the University of Glasgow. 

Edwards's Botanical Register; each monthly Number containing eight 
plates; 4s. coloured, 3s. plain. Edited by Dr. Lindley, F.R.S., Pro- 
fessor of Botany in the London University. 

Sweet's British Flower-Garden; each monthly Number containing four 
plates; 3s. coloured, 2s. 3d. plain. Edited by David Don, Esgq., Libra- 
rian to the Linnzan Society. 

Loddiges’s Botanical Cabinet; each monthly Number containing ten plates; 
5s. coloured, 2s. 6d. partly coloured. Edited by Messrs. Loddiges. 

Maund’s Botanic Garden; each monthly Number containing one plate 
bearing figures of four plants; large paper, 1s. 6d. ; small paper, 1s.; bor- 
dered edition, with the four plants on four separate plates, 2s. 6d. Edited 
by Benjamin Maund, Esgq., F.L.S. 


PoLyPETALOUS DICcOTYLEDONOUS PLANTS. 


XXXVI. Hypericinee. Hypéricum hyssopifolium V7. is figured in the 
Botanical Magazine for November, t. 3277. It is showy in its numerous 
blossoms, and is hardy, perennial, and herbaceous. The plant is in the 
collection of the Edinburgh Botanic Garden. 

LVII. Myrtacee. 


2182. BEAUFO’RTTJA. 
Dampiéri Cun. Dampier’s # t_J or 2? my? Pk Dirk Hartog’s Island Cs.p Bot. mag. 3272 
Possibly identical with B. carinata of Hort. Brit., No. 19656. 

A rare and very interesting species; apparently a dwarf shrub, with 
many opposite or subverticillate branches. Leaves small, approaching to 
orbicular, closely placed, beautifully quaternate, dark green above, pale be- 
neath ; of a very aromatic taste. Flowers numerous, collected in whorls 
below the extremity of a branch. B. Dampieri, by the specimen figured, is 
a very elegant little plant. (Bot. Mag., October.) 

LXV. Thymelée. 


87. PIMELE*A. , 
arenaria Cun. sand-inhabiting % \_] pr 1? jl W New Zeal. 1827. Cs.p_ Bot. mag. 3270 
Closely allied to P. cinérea Br. ; approaches also near to P. nivea Lab., as well as to P. pilbsa 
Vahl. : 
Mr. Allan Cunningham found “ this interesting Pimeléa grewing on the 


bare exposed sandy ridges at the entrance of the river Hokianga, on the 


702 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


1515. 
13034 


1249. 


£837. 


western coast of the northern island of New Zealand, where he observed 
it in flower in September and October, 1826.” It is figured from the Kew 
collection. “ A small erect shrub, branched in a dichotomous manner. 
Leaves ovate, opposite, and decussate; glaucous green; flowers white, 
capitate, terminal, pure white, nearly erect, and large for the genus; an- 
thers of a deep orange colour.” (Bot. Mag., October.) 
longifldra Br. lJong-flowered 4% t_]or 4 jn W S$. N. Holl. 1831? C sp Bot. mag. 3281 
“ Tntrodueed to our gardens by Mr. Fraser, from the southern shores of 
New Holland. It is beautiful, by reason of the comparatively large and 
globose heads of pure white blossoms, terminating the slender and wavy 
branches. Its fowering season, in the Glasgow Botanic Garden, is June.’’ 
(Bot Mag., November.) 


LXXIII. Rosdcee § Spiredcee. 


SPIRAEA. ; 
grandifldra B.C. large-flowered S or 4 jl Pk Kamtschatka 1827. Sk It.1 Bot. cab. 1988 


Messrs. Loddiges raised this beautiful hardy shrub from seeds sent them 
from Kamtschatka, by M. Busch, in 1826. It resembles S. salicifolia, but 
is a much finer plant, and the flowers are double the size of those of S. sa- 
licifélia. It fourishes in the open ground, in light loamy soil, and flowers in 
July; may be increased by layers or cuttings. (Jot. Cab., November.) 


LXXVII. Leguminose. 


CALLISTACHYS. 
retusa B. C. retuse-lud. %\_Jor 4 jn.au Y N. Hoil. 1830? Cs.p Bot. cab. 1983 


About sixteen pretty yellow flowers and buds of flowers tip the spike of 
the branch figured, and it is stated that each branch (these are few and 
strong) of the plant produces a similar raceme of flowers. C, retusa “ is 
readily propagated by cuttings.” (Bot. Cab., November.) 

ACA‘CIA § Capitate. 


+24667d gravéolens Cun. strong-scented # _jor 15 ap.jn Y V.D.L. C sip Bot. mag. 3279 


2900. 


Introduced by Mr. Cunningham, from the margins of rivulets in the 
neighbourhood of Hobart Town, in Van Diemen’s Land, where he observed 
it in flower and fruit one February. In the Kew and other British green- 
houses it forms a shrub, with twiggy branches, which in May abound with 
globular showy heads of yellow Howers. In affinity it approaches to A. 
dodoneifolia. (Bot. Mag., November.) 


LXXX. Artocdrpee. 
FICUS 4 Ovatifdliz: smooth above ; pubescent beneath. 
facuminata Ham. pointed-lud.- #{_Jor6 ... W Silhet 18302 C pl Bot. mag. 3282 
BF. cerasiférmis, Glasgow Botanic Garden. 

It is a handsome species, remarkable for its solitary, peduculated, pen- 
dent, and tempting-looking fruit; somewhat resembling miniature oranges ; 
the full green of its leaves, which are 4 to 9 in. long, and the brownness 
and abundance, of the pubescence of its branches, are also pleasing cha- 
racters. (Bot. Mag., November.) 


LXXXIX. Resedacee. Dr. Lindley has, in his recently published Mirus 
Plantarum, p. 12. (noticed in p. 608.), declared his theory of the struc- 
ture of the flowers of the resedas untenable, and that the common view 
of their structure, advocated by Dr. Brown and Professor Henslow, is the 
correct one. For a statement of the difference of opinion previously extant 
on this question, see the notice of Professor Henslow’s pamphlet, in p. 457. 


Reséda odorata var. crassifolia. At Scone, in the summer of 1831, I 
took notice of and preserved a variety of 2. odorata, which some of my 
friends in that neighbourhood named, from the thickness of its leaves, 
crassifolia. It is of a more robust habit than the common varieties are; 
its leaves are ovate, and very large, sometimes, upon young plants, 3 in. 
long, 2 in. wide, and, from some contraction at their margin, become con- 


supplementary to Enc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 703 


cave; its flowers and their odour are those of the common variety. 2. odo- 
rata crassifolia, from its robust habit, is peculiarly eligible for cultivating into 
what are called trees of mignonette; and so ornamental as these are, it is 
strange that so few possess them. To obtain them, I choose, in the begin- 
ning of August, those of the plants growing in the borders, which I think 
fittest for forming them, and divest each of them of all the stems but one 
leading one, which I tie to a stake; I then cut, with a trowel, at about 
2% in. from the stem, through all the plant’sroots. I leave the plant 
standing for about ten days; by the end of which time it will have emitted 
fresh roots, and then transplant it into a 24-sized pot, in a mixture of 
rotted dung and sandy loam, and shade it from the sun for a few days. 
Subsequently I pinch off the spikes of flowers as they appear, until I 
have formed the plants as I desire; usually I do not permit them to flower 
until the following spring. I prefer to have the plants bushy from the 
bottom to the top, and not the stem bare in its lower part, as is the case 
with some trees of mignonette which I have in other places seen. A tree 
will, if it be prevented seeding, at least from ripening a considerable quantity 
of seeds, continue flowering for years. (G. M. Elliott. Coul, Sept. 18. 
1833.) 

For a notice of a bush of mignonette of the remarkable height, for a 
species usually so dwarf, of 10 ft. under Mr. J. Elles’s culture, see p. 232. 

The plot of ground apportioned to the collection of grasses in the Cam- 
bridge Botanic Garden used to abound in mignonette, which came up 
spontaneously every spring, and was allowed to grow between the plants of 
grass. In the years 1816 to 1818, I saw there several plants of mignonette 
very distinct from the rest, in their larger leaves, laxer racemes of flowers, 
me paler-coloured flowers, and larger germens or incipient seed-vessels. 


CXXIII. Ovalidee. 


1414. O/X ALIS. : 
divérgens Benth. diverging % _AJ or 3 jn.s W Mexico 1829? O pl Bot. reg. 1620 


A very pleasing species, figured with five scapes, each bearing an umbel 
of from three to five white flowers ; its leaves are figured with four leaflets 
each, and described as possessing but three. It is easily cultivated under a 
frame which excludes all wet and very severe cold, and, like all the American 
species of the same habit, prefers the open soil to the confinement. of a 
pot. Mr. Graham sent from Mexico bulbs of O. divérgens to the Horticul- 
tural Society. (Bot. Reg., figured in October ; text in November.) 


CXXIX. Polygalee. 


2063. POLY’ GALA § Clinclinia. 
18250a thesidides /¥. Thesium-like w _JorZjl B Valparaiso 1832 Cp.s.l Sw. fl. gar. 2.s. 215 


A pretty suffruticose species, raised by Mr. Knight, from seeds bought 
of Mr. Hugh Cuming. The plant appears to delight ina sandy soil. The 
upright stems are many; each is covered with heathlike leaves, and bears, 
at its tip only, a raceme of small but lovely blue flowers. 


Monoretatous DicoryLEDONOUS PLANTS. 


CLXX. Ervicee. 


1173. ERICA. § Flowers long and cylindrical (Tubzflore). 
sérdida B.C. unbeautiful # | Jor3 jnjl R C.G.H} 1810. Cs.p Bot. cab. 1973 
Cannot be No. 9459. of Hortus Britannicus, as its flowers are figured as perfectly smooth. 

Why this is named sérdida is not very evident : it is, it is true, not very 
fully or richly coloured; but its long tubular red blossoms, which are 
represented as numercusly produced, render it, one would say, an orna- 
mental species, although it may be less so than many others are. No 
information on it, additional to that exhibited in our line above, is supplied 


704 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


in the Cabinet, except that it “is of free growth.” The leaves, by the 


figure, are small, rather dense, and arranged in four or more rows. (Bot. 

Cab., October.) 

ERYCA § Ovatifldre. 

hispida B.C. hairy-lvd. #\_Jor 13? jnjl Pk C.G.H. 1792. Csp Bot. cab, 1982 
“ It is a slender quick-growing kind, making many loose branches, 

upon which flowers are produced near their tops in June and July: it re- 

quires an airy green-house.” (Bot. Cab., November.) 


CLXXXVI. Composite. 

9349. CHETANTHE’RA. (Chaité, a bristle, anthéra, an anther ; bristles at base of anthers.) 
21549 serrata R. & P. sawed-iud. ¥ Alor3 jlau Y Chile 1827. Dp.l Sw. fil.gar. 2.s, 214 
C. serrata R. & P., D. Don; C. chilénsis Dec. ; Perdicium chilénse W.; Prosélia serrata D. Don ; 

No. 21549. of Hort. Brit., where Desv. is probably an error for Dec. 

A dwarf perennial herbaceous plant, with a woody caudex and many de- 
cumbent slender leafy stems, 3in. or 4in. long, each of which bears, and at 
its tip, a rayed head of blossoms; the rays in colour a brilliant yellow. The 
plant is impatient of wet. Mr. Knight possesses it. (Brit. Flower-Gard.) 

2373. ZVNNIA 21630 élegans 
2 coccinea Lindl. scarlet-rayed © spl 2au.o S Mexico 1829. Sco Bot. reg. 1294 
3 radiis albidis white-rayed _© or 2au.0o W Brit. Gard. 1852. S co 

The scarlet-flowered variety was figured, in 1830, in the Bot. Reg., where 
it was stated that only a plant or two were known to be in British collec- 
tions, which did not promise to seed freely. The variety has, however, 
survived, or been again introduced. Several plants of it were in bloom in 
the Horticultural Society’s Garden on August 13. 1833. 

The white-rayed variety is possessed by T. Rivers and Son, nurserymen, 
Sawbridgeworth, Herts, and doubtless is in other collections. 


CC. Polemonidcee. 


473. COLLOSMIA. 
coccinea Leh. — scarlet-flwd. © orl jl R Chile 1832. Sco Bot. reg. 1622 
C. lateritia D. Don in Sw. FI. Gar. 2. s. 206. (Gard. Mag., vol. ix. p. 620.) 


A notice of this species is quoted into p. 620.; which see. In the Bot. 
Reg. for October, t. 1622., a figure and description of it are published with 
the name of C. coccinea; which name is there shown to have been pub- 
lished for it at Hamburgh, previously to Mr. Don’s application of the name 
C. lateritia. The flowers of collomias expand more fully under a cloudy 
sky than in bright sunshine: the plants, nevertheless, like warm weather. 
Consistently with this their habit, Dr. Lindley advises two sowings of their 
seeds; one in early spring, the other a month or two afterwards. If the 
summer prove hot and dry, the plants from the latter sowing will flower 
more satisfactorily in autumn, than those from the former one will in the 


dog-days. 


Of pretty and remarkable Species of Plants of the Order Polemoniacee, 
the London Horticultural Society has, in the spring of the present year 
(1833), received, by seeds, a considerable number, from Mr. David Douglas, 
who had collected them in California; few or none of them had been pre- 
viously introduced to Britain. Plants of several of the species have been, this 
year, raised in the Society’s Garden, and have there flowered this autumn, 
although, possibly, too late to favour the hope of a plenteous crop of ripe 
seeds being this year derived from them. Some of the species belong 
to genera of which certain species are already in British gardens; as the 
genera Gilia and Collomia. Mr. Bentham has described the generic and 
specific characters of all of them, in a communication appended, in the 
Botanical Register for October, to the description of Collémia coccinea of 
Lehmann, t. 1622.; and in doing this has a'so revised the characters of the 
genera and species previously known and cultivated. The names of the 
genera and species are : — 


supplementary to Linc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 705 


498a. HUGE‘LIA Benth. (In honour of Baron Charles de Hiigel of Vienna. Hugélia of Reichen- 


bach is Didiscus Dec.) 5. 1. Polemoniacee. Sp.4— Differs from Gulia in habit and anthers, 
densifolia Benth. crowded-lvad. OQ? A?orl?... B California 1833. S co 
elongata Benth. lengthened-branched O ? A ? or 2? .., Dp.B California 1833. S co 
virgata Benth. branchy (O) PN Oe ae, Dp.B California 1833. S co 
litea Benth. yellow-jfiwd. O? A? or? ... Y California 1853. 5S co 
4985, LINA’/NTHUS Benth. (Linon, flax, anthos, flower ; from the resemblance of the fower 
to that of several species of Linum.) 5.1. Polemoniadcee. Sp. 1. 
dichétomus Benth. forked-branched O or 12?. Pk California 1833. S co 


Flowers solitary in the forks; towards the tips of the branches, numerous and clustered ; 
corolla of the size and form, and nearly of the colour, of that of Zinum suffruticdsum. 


498c LEPTOSI‘PHON Benth. (Leptos, slender, siphon, a tube; slenderness of the tube of the 
corolla.) 5, 1. Polemoniacec. Sp. 5.— 

Leaves opposite, sessile, palmately cues Flowers in dense corymbose heads. 
grandifidrus Benth. large- flowered O or 12,2? au.o B.Go California 1833, Sco 
androsaceus Benth. Androsace-like Oo or 1?au.o Dp.B.Go California 1833. S co 

Corolla smaller, and more intensely coloured than in L. grandifldrus. 
luteus Benth. yellow. flwd. O or 13? au.0 Dp.Y California 1833. S co 
2 pale yellow-flowered ©O or 13? au. PaY California 1853. S co 
2 parvifldbrus Benth. small-flowered O or 13? au.0 Y California 1833. S co 
? densiflorus Benth. crowded-flowered (@) or 13 ?au.o Pa.P? California 1833. Sco 


Mr. Bentham suspects that the last-named species may possibly be the type of a genus inter- 
mediate between Leptosiphon and the Gilig of the section Dactylophy lum. 


498d. FE’NZLIA Benth. (In honour of D7. Fenzl of Vienna, now publishing a monograph of 
Alsinexz.) 5.1. Polemoniicee. Sp. 1. 
dianthiflira Benth. Dianthus-flowered A?O?ord ... PLY California 1833. S co 
The leaves are linear, entire, opposite. Flowers peduncled, 1—3. Corolla almost an inch long, 
purplish, but yellow in the lower part. 


499, GI’/LI4 Cav. (P. S. Gilio, a Spanish botanist.) 5.1. Polemoniacee. Sp. 14.— 


Sect. 1. DacryLopny’/tLumM. Lower leaves opposite, all sessile and palmately cut. Flowers 
solitary, on long footstalks. Corolla’s tube very short, its limb spreading. Perhaps the spe- 
cies of this section are properlya genus. — Benth. 


dinifldra Benth. Linum-flowered ©O?pr 2?. W? California 1833. S sl 
The flowers, in form and size, resemble those of Linum ‘tenuifldrum. 


s pharnacedides Benth. Pharnaceum-like © ? pr 2 ies od California 1833. S 5.1 
Flower half the size of that of G. dinifléra. 

pusilla Benth. dwarf O? cu 3 Chile 1833.. S s.l 

It has the habit of Arenaria tenuifdlia ; and its flower is but half the size of that of G. phar- 


nacedides. 


Sect. 2. Ipomo’psis. Leaves alternate, pinnately cut or pinnatifid. Flowers solitary or 
associated. ‘The corolla’s tube lengthened and protruded far beyond the calyx. 


$4265 coronopifilia Pers. Coronopus-leaved O) spl 2 92 jl.s S Carolina 1726. C Ip Ex. bot. 1. 13. 
Persoon’s Syn. 1. 187. Ipomdpsis élegans Sm. “exot. bot. 1. 23. t. 13. [and, according to Hort. 
Brit., No. 4265, Cantua coronopit: lia Wd 
pulchélla’ Dou. pretty y O) spl. 22 jls S N.W. Amer, 1826. Cl1p Bot. reg. 1281 
G. pulchélla Douglas MSS., Ipomdépsis élegans Lind. bot. reg. 1281. [and, according to Hort. 
Brit,, p. 471., Upomépsis élegans Mx.) 


tenuiflora Benth. slender-tubed © ? or 2? éc6 B California 1833. S s.l 
arenaria Benth. sand-inhabiting © ? or 1? ono 8} California 1833. S sl 
crassifolia Benth. thick-leaved © ? or 2? eee Ysh Chile 1332. Ss.l 


Sect. 3. Euai’/t1a. Leaves alternate, pinnately cut or pinnatifid. Flowers more or less 
strictly solitary, or more usually grouped in heads. Corolla’s tube as short as, or shorter 
than, the calyx. 


+4266 inconspicua Dow. inconspicuous © orcu2au.n B N.W. Amer. 1793. S co Bot. mag. 2883 


Ipomépsis inconspicua Sm. exot. bot. [and, according to Hort. Brit., No, 4266., Gilia parviflora 
Spr., and Cantua parvifldra Ph.] 


tricolor Benth. three-coloured.flwd. © ? or 2? 000 (hal California 1833. S co 


[1831. Sco Fl. per. 123 


28891 laciniata #.§ P. — cut-lud. cu 2jl Pk Chile, Peru, California 
multicaulis Benth. many-stemmed 8 20 oF ie. aD B California 1833. S co 
achillegfolia Benth. Achillea-leaved O ? or 2? au.n B California 1833. S co 

mice mag. 2698., Bot. reg. 1170 

+4267 capitata Dou. headed-cnflovrescence © or 23 jl.n N. W. Amer. 1896. S co 
(2 corélla alba white-corollaed © or 2 jin Ww Gardens 1829. S co] 

499a. HGO'CHLOA. . (Aix, aigos, a goat, chloa, a green herb; herbage of some of the 


species fetid.) 5. 1. Polemoniacee. Sp. 6. 
Herbaceous plants, most of them with viscous and fetid herbage. Leaves pinnately cut, the 
segments acute and cut. Flowers in dense heads, supported by multifid spiny bracteas. 


(1833. S ... 
intertéxta Benth. interwoven[what?] QO? cul}?  .. BP? California and N.W. Am. 
cotulefodlia Benth. Cotula-leaved @ Pcu Q2 on | (1H California 1833. S ... 


pubéscens Benth. downy-herbaged OQ? cu 1? eee BPA California 1833. S ... 
(Bot. mag. 2977 


728890 pingens Benth.  prickly-lud. © cu 13 jus B California 1826. Ss.1 
Gilia pingens Douglas, Hook. Bot. Mag. 2977., Hort. Brit., 28890. 
eryngidlides Benth. Eryngium-like O 2? cu Chile 1833. S ... 
Gilia eryngidides Bot. Zeit. 1833. 1. 122., G. mucronata Lehm, del, sem. Hort. Hamburgh, 1832. 
atractylidides Benth. Atractylis-like (0) 2 GR Leas ido B? California 1833. S$... 


Has the habit of Atractylis himilis. 
Vou. TX. — No. 47. ZZ 


706 Floricultural and Botanical Notices, 


473. COLLO‘YMIA Nut. (Kolla, glue; seeds, when moistened, externally glutinous.) 5. 1. 
Polemoniacee. Sp. 7.— [Bot. mag. 2895., Bot. reg. 1347 
428069 heterophylla Hook. various-leaved © or $ jn.s Pk N. W. Amer. 1826. 5S co 


[Bot. reg. 1622 
coccinea Leh. scarlet-flewd. © or 1ijn.n R Chile 1832. S co 
C. coccinea Lehmann delect. sem. Hort. Hamburg. 1832; Bentham in Bot. Reg. t. 1622.; C. la- 

teritia D. Don in Sw. fl. gar. 2. s. 206. (Oct. 1833.) 
(Bot. reg. 1174., Bot. mag, 2894 


+28070 grandiflora Dow. large-fiowered © or 2 jn.o Saf N.W. Amer. 1826. S co 
(Bot. reg. 1166, Bot. mag. 2893 
43924 linearis Nué. linear-Zud. © or 1 jn.o R N.W. Amer, 1826, S co 
gilid?des Benth. Gilia-like (©) PAZ-O8P Vac Bs California 1833. S co 

Its corolla resembles that of C. gracilis. } 
glutindsa Benth. glutinous [? herbage] © ? K or? «. ase California 1833. S co 


Its corolla resembles that of C. gracilis. 
[Chile 1826. Sco Bot. mag. 2924 
+28086 gracilis Dow. slender [? what] © or 3 jns Pk N,W. Amer., California, 
Here ends a catalogue of the species which Mr. Bentham has described 
in the Botanical Register. 
An additional species of Collomia has, a botanical friend has informed 
us, been recently published in Hooker’s Journal of Botany: it is named — 


Cavanillés#i Hook. & A. Cavanilles’s. It is closely related to C. coccf{nea above, and is the Phléx 
linearis of Cavanilles’s Figures (Icones). Whether the species has been yet seen alive in bri- 
tain we are not aware. 


CCV. Oledcee. 


41. SYRI’ NGA. ; 
290a Josike‘a Jac. Josika’s % or 8my.jn Dp.Li Germany 1833. Sk co Bot. mag. 3278 


An additional and hardy species of lilac, for the enrichment and deco- 
ration of our shrubberies. It is, perhaps, scarcely so beautiful as those 
already in cultivation. It was discovered in Transylvania, by the Baroness 
von Josika, born Countess Czaki, and has been, by Jacquin, named in 
compliment to that distinguished lady. S. Josikee‘a is an upright shrub, 
with spreading branches and purple twigs. Its leaves are elliptic lanceo- 
late, 3in. long, and 11 in. broad, shining and lurid green above, beneath 
white, in the manner of those of the balsam poplar. The panicles of 
corollas are terminal, erect. Each corolla is about 4 in. long. of a deep lilac 
colour. “ Dr. Graham, in 1833, received the plant, at the Botanic Garden 
of Edinburgh, from Mr. Booth of Hamburgh.” Besides this additional 
information on the S. Josikee‘a, Dr. Hooker incidentally communicates that 


Thecommon lilac (S. vulgaris), which has hitherto been considered almost exclusively of Persian 
origin, is stated, by Dr. Heuffel, to adorn, with its copious blossoms, the inaccessible chalky 
precipices of the Cverna Valley and Mount Domaglett in Hungary, as well as the whole 
group of rocks along the Danube, at the military boundaries of Moldowa, Szazka, Csiklova, 
and Krassova. (Bot. Mag., Nov.) 


CCVII. Primulacee. 
457. LYSIMA‘CHIA, 
3842a azérica Horn? Azorian yf A or 3 jn Y Azores? 18312 DIp Bot. mag. 3273 

“« This extremely pretty Lysimachia was received at the Botanic Garden, 
Glasgow, from that of Copenhagen. It is cultivated in a pot, and treated 
as an alpine plant, that is, protected from the fickleness of our winters, and 
kept in a cool shady situation in the summer; and, in the month of June, 
a pot filled with this little plant is quite a beautiful object; for the pedun- 
cles are so long as to elevate the bright, and comparatively large, yellow 
flowers above the tops of the stems and the delicate pale green foliage.” 
(Bot. Mag., October.) 

CCXI. Scrophularinee. Anther-bearing stamens two. 


65. CALCEOLA‘RIA. 
577* séssilis R. & P.  sessile-lud. “% __] or lis Y Valparaiso 1832. Cs.p Bot. reg. 1628 


Raised by the Hon. and Rev. W. Herbert, from seeds imported by Mr. 
Hugh Cuming. Its blossoms are yellow, and, though not large, very 
numerous, disposed in axillary and terminal cymes; it is always a neat- 
looking species, and is very beautiful when growing vigorously in the open 
border. Near C. integrifolia, but has all its leaves hoary beneath, and its 
upper leaves sessile, with triangular bases. (Bot. Reg., November.) 


supplementary to Enc. of Plants and Hort. Brit. 707 


Scrophularinee. § Anther-bearing stamens four. 


1787. TORE‘NTIA. 
29293 scabra Grah. rough-lvd. #(_Jor 3 jn.aut Pa.B Moreton Bay 1830. C ri. Bot. mag. 3104 
Bot. Cab, 1990., whence we have here given the details more accurately than in the Add. Sup. 


In a warm green-house “ it grows rapidly, and forms a good-sized bush, 
with many succulent branches, each producing plenty of flowers [rather 
large, and of a pale blue], which continue successively from the month of 
June till autumn.”” (Bot. Cab., November.) 

Anthocércis viscésa is figured in the Botanical Register for November, 
t. 1624. It is a handsome evergreen shrub, with dark green neat leaves, 
and rather numerous large white starry flowers, produced in May and June. 
It is liable to injury from over-watering ; it is easily propagated by cuttings. 
Figured from Lowe’s nursery, Clapton. Dr. Lindley refers this genus to 
Scrophularineee. Another species, A littérea, has flowered in Ireland ; 
see p. 700. 

CCXIIL. Soldnee. 


489. PETUNIA. 
pheenicea D. Don purple.flwd. w 'jspl. 24 jnn C.P Buen. Ayres 1831. C s.1 Bot.reg.1626 
or © spl. XKor5 jnn C.P Buen. Ayres 1831. S co 

Synonymes : Salpigldéssis integrifdlia Hooker in Bot. Mag., 3113. ; Loudon’s Add. Supp. to Hort. 
Brit., No. 29216. PANS, 

Petinia pheenicea D. Don, incidentally, in the text descriptive of Nierembérg7a gracilis, in 
Sweet’s British Flower-Garden for December, 1832, t. 172. 

Nierembérg7a pheenicea D. Don, with a figure in Sw. Br. Fl. Gard., June, 1833, t. 193. . 

Petinia violacea Lindl. in Bot. Reg., November, 1833, t. 1626: but where the specific epithet is 
doubtless a mere mistake, as he quotes Sw. Fl. Gard. t. 193.; intending, no doubt, to adopt 
Mr. Don’s specific name, although no such epithet as violacea has been, by Mr. Don, applied in 
that work to the plant in question. 


The name of this lovely plant (see p. 561.) may now be considered as 
settled: Petunia phoenicea. No botanist has mentioned the apparent 
imperfectness of the stamens of this plant. Dr. Lindley states that “ it 
forces well.” 

CCXX. Verbendcee. 

1749. VERBE‘NA. ; 
radicans Hook, rooting 2. Al or 2 jn.s Li Chile 1832. C lp Maund, bot. gard. 422 

Already registered, with details, in p. 113., in the valuable list of newly 
introduced plants, communicated by Mr. Cameron. Mr. Maund, who, in 
his Botanic Garden for October, has figured this species, states that 

“It is a prostrate plant, spreading pretty freely over the surface of the 
parterre.... The stems protrude young roots; and, if the former be fas- 
tened down, they will supply an abundance of distinct plants. Pot a few 
young ones in August, and keep them in a cold frame during winter. Turn 
them out, in April, into a light rich soil and warm aspect, and they will 
quickly become ornamental.” Mr. Frost speaks of species of a similar 
habit, termed (in p. 560.) “ Verbéna Sabini. 


MonocorTyLeDONOUS PLANTS. 


CCXXXVIII. Amaryllideze. 
975, HABRA/NTHUS. 
miniatus D. Don red-flwd. § AJ or 1 jl R Chile 1832. O its Sw.fl.gar.2.s.213 
A distinct species, with an umbel, according to the figure, of four flowers, 
smaller than those of H. roseus. The speciesis in Colville’s nursery. “ It 
requires a mixture of vegetable earth and sand, and will doubtless, like most 
bulbous plants from the same country, succeed well in the open air, in a 
warm sheltered border.” (British Flower-Garden, November.) 


CCXL. Orchidee § Neottiee. 
2495a. SAUROGLO/SSU M Lindl. (* So named from saura, a lizard [and glossa, a tongue] ; 
because many of the parts of this curious plant may be likened to the tongue of some reptile : 
the leaves may be compared to the tongues of antediluvian saurians, and the sepals to those of 
modern species.”) Lizard’s tongue. 20. 1. 
elatum Lindl. tall ¥ (A) pr 12 mr W.Ysh Brazil 1832 Ds.p Bot. reg. 1618 


It bears a good deal of resemblance to Spiranthes granditiora and Pe- 
léxia spiranthoides ; “ its structure is, however, distinctly different from 
that of any plant of any published genus.” The plant figured was derived 


AVA?) 


2540. 


2546. 


2554. 


708 Hloricultural and Botanical Notices. 


from the collection of Mrs. Arnold Harrison. It is a native of the woods 
of Brazil, and inhabits soil, not trees. The flowering scape is well-nigh 
2ft. high, and of this portion the fiowers occupy half; they are placed 
closely together, and their white labellums contrast pleasingly with the 
green sepals and bracteas; both, after the flowering season, seem to become 
of a brown colour, and the flowers of the lower part of the spike to be 
in this case, before those of the upper part of the spike have become 
expanded: this must increase the plant’s interestingness. Dr. Lindley ap- 
pends to his description of this plant the character of several related genera, 
which he previously had ascertained and described. (Bot. Reg., October.) 
Orchidee § Vander. 


ONCI’ DIUM. f 
pulchéllum B. C. fair € (A) or 2? mr Ww Demerara 1828? Dp.r.w Bot. cab, 1984 


“ We have had it several years, but it was not strong enough to bloom 
till March last.” The panicle of flowers figured forms an elegant lovely 
picture: the flowers are white, rather large, and have a tint of pink in the 
centre. “ It continued in flower nearly two months, and has a delicious 
fragrance. We have not yet been able to increase it.’ (Bot. Cab., Nov.) 


GONGO’RA. 
maculata Lindl. spotted.jlwd. € (ZA) or 2} my Y.spot Demerara 1832. Dp.r.w Bot. reg. 1616 


“‘ This most curious species”’ is published from the collection of Richard 
Harrison, at Liverpool, in whose hot-house it produced its flowers in 
bunches, 23 ft. long, and these hung down most gracefully from the pot in 
which the plant was suspended. ‘The flowering specimen figured is very 
beautiful : for, besides the remarkable form of the flowers, they are numerous, 
and handsome, in being of a rich yellow or yolk of egg colour, spotted, and 
striped with purple, and are not small. (Bot. Reg., October.) 

Orchidea: \ Epidéndree. 

EPIDE NDRUM. 


22730b, oncididides Lindl. Oncidium-like & (J fra3jn Y.Br S.Amer. 1823? Dp.r.w Bot. reg. 1623 


2558. 


A noble species, which, according to a specimen communicated by R. 
Harrison, Esg., of Liverpool, to Dr. Lindley, produces a leaf near 2 ft. 
long, and a panicle of flowers fully 3 ft. long. It is nearly allied to E. odo- 
ratissimum, with which it agrees in its delicious and powerful fragrance. 
When the specimen was unpacked, the whole air of the room became 
perfumed, as if a basketful of violets and roses had been scattered over 
the floor... . It is a most interesting species ; for it is not only handsome, 
singular, and fragrant, but its flowers are very durable, remaining in per- 
fection for at least a fortnight.” (Bot. Reg., November.) 


BLEYT/4d. 
gracilis B.C. slender  %& (A) or 1 jn Gsh.S.R Mexico 1830. Op.r.w Bot. cab. 1977 


‘‘ This is believed to be a native of Mexico. Itis exceedingly slender in 
all its proportions ; the leaves are of a purplish red colour, and the scape 
is about 1 ft. in height, producing two or three flowers;” perhaps it 
will produce many more in a raceme, by invigorating culture. We, on 
the present occasion, take our note from a partly coloured copy of the 
Cabinet ; and, judging from the figure in it the flowers of this species are 
handsome. Their ground colour seems a yellow green, which is marked in 
one part with scarlet, in another with red; their form, too, seems elegant. 
(Bet. Cab., October.) 


LEPTOYTES Lindl. (Leptos, slender ; leaves) 20. 1. Orchidee \ Epidéndree. 
bicolor Linal. two-cld.-fiwd. ye YNliorzap W.R Brazil 1831? D lt.potsh.moss Bot.reg.1625 


A pretty little plant, from the Organ Mountains of Brazil. The speci- 
men figured flowered im the collection of Mrs. A. Harrison. L. bicolor 
has been known to thrive planted among broken potsherds, decayed vege- 
table matter, and moss. The genus Leptotes is closer in affinity to 


Tetramicra Lindl. “ This genus, founded on the Cymbidium rigidum of Willdenow, is the 
Brasavola élegans of the Botanical Magazine, t. 30°8. ; 


Retrospective Criticism. 709 


the true B. élegans being a plant which, we believe, has not yet been intro- 
duced.” (Bot. Reg., November.) 
CCLI. Lihadcee. 


4016. LILIUM 8408 Martagon. 

3 s€épalis plarimis double-flowered % A or 3jn.au P Gardens ... O co 

4 sépalis albis white-sepaled ¥ A or 22 jnau W Germany ... O co Maund.bot.gar.426 
“ The Dutch, who excel in the cultivation of all sorts of bulbs, have not 

been idle in regard to the Lilium iWartagon. They have raised seedling 

varieties of various shades of colour, some single and some double, but 

still none possessing any peculiar attractions; which may account for very 

few being met with in English gardens.” (Maund’s Bot. Gard., November.) 


1018. FRITILLA‘RIA. 
3449a minor Led. smaller § A or1li3my P.spot Altai mountains 1830. O p.i Bot. mag. 3280 
F. meleagroides Patrin in Schult. Syst. Veg. 7. 395. As No. 8449. in Hort. Brit. is on Fischer’s, 
not Patrin’s, authority, we cannot tell whether F. minor Led. be the same as that or not. 
Like every kind of Fritillaria, F. minor is. ornamental, interesting, and 
desirable. As its flowers are smaller than those of some kinds, it is less 
showy than they. In the specimen figured, the stem is terminated by three 
pendulous flowers. F. minor was obtained by D. Falconar, Esq., of Car- 
lowrie, near Edinburgh, from Mr. Goldie, who brought it from Russia. 
Professor Ledebour discovered it in pastures of the Altai Mountains. 


{ Bot. Mag., November.) 


Art. IV. Retrospective Criticism. 


JW. Les NoTeEs on Dr. Lindley’s Lectures. (p. 436.) — A selfish desire 
-or fame may at times operate upon some of the correspondents of the 
Gardener’s Magazine, but selfishness, in its worst form, cannot be laid 
to their charge. The very existence of a publication, composed chiefly of 
communications from men of the same profession, freely giving an account 
of the results of their experiments, &c., for the purpose of instructing or 
warning their brethren, affords us a beautiful practical developement of 
that great moral truth, that man does not and ought not to live for him- 
self; that he is merely a member of the community of mankind; and, 
consequently, that the interests and happiness of that community are 
intimately blended and inseparably connected with his own. Hoping that 
these are something like the sentiments of my brother gardeners, and 
trusting to your indulgence, I beg leave to make a few remarks upon the 
influence of light and air on vegetation, suggested chiefly by reading 
J. W. L.’s notes on Dr. Lindley’s valuable lecture upon climate. (p. 436.) 

With regard to light, there is one very important truth asserted, “ that 
too much and too little light are alike injurious to plants.” I feel convinced 
of the powerful agency of light, acting as a stimulus to the exertion of the 
vital principle in vegetable bodies, and of the great importance of atmo- 
spheric air, and admit, at the same time, that the want of air, and the 
presence of too much light, are as injurious as they are represented to be ; 
but, nevertheless, my present impression is, that these results are not pro- 
duced exactly by the causes assigned, but that it is stretching the point too 
far to say that plants die in the one case for “ want of food,’ and in the 
other from “ feeding too fast.” (See Notes, p. 437.) 

That carbonic acid gas is inhaled from the atmosphere during the day, 
and, being decomposed by the agency of light, becomes partly assimilated 
to the plant, Ido not deny: for although the application of carbonic acid 
gas is prejudicial to plants vegetating in the shade, it, at least, is not in- 
jurious when they are exposed to the influence of light. Having filled a 
fine glass bottle with carbonic acid gas, and put in it some plants in a 
vegetating state, and prevented all access of atmospheric air, I exposed 

LEL3 


410 Retrospective Criticism. 


the bottle to the influence of the sun’s rays; and, upon examination some 
hours afterwards, I found the plants healthy, and the artificial atmosphere 
in which they were put deprived of its destructive quality to animal life ; 
which purification must have been effected by the inhalation, and conse- 
quent decomposition, of carbonic acid by the plants ; or it might be partly 
owing to the expulsion of the oxygen that was contained in the plants. 
Allowing, then, that plants do derive part of their carbon from the atmo- 
sphere, in some instances perhaps the greater part, it still remains to be 
proved that from it plants generally “ absorb the carbon necessary for 
their support.” I can scarcely think that these are the sentiments of the 
learned professor, although the opinion is still further corroborated by 
what follows; viz. ‘‘ If you deprive them (plants) of atmospheric air, they 
languish, their leaves lose their colour, their flowers their scent, and their 
fruit its flavour, till, by degrees, they pine away and die at last absolutely 
for want of food.” (p. 437.) Now this appears to me to possess a little 
of that absurdity which would be laid to my charge were I to affirm that 
the little animal, that had been permitted to fill its belly to satiety, died for 
want of food, when cruelly confined in the exhausted-receiver of an air- 
pump. 

It would not be requisite to advert to these things, but for the great 
difference of opinion which exists among our physiological writers; one 
class looking upon the leaves of plants as so many robbers, wasting, by 
their exhalations, the nourishment which the stem ought to receive; while 
others are so convinced of their absorbing and elaborating properties, 
that they forget their exhaling ones; and, not content with making them 
lungs, they have elevated them a degree farther, and made them the mouths 
by which plants absorb their nourishment. 

The most common observer must have remarked the rapid progress of 
vegetable developement, when the plant is in a green succulent state, and 
the comparatively small progress it makes after induration has commenced ; 
but we cannot ascribe this effect to the “ absorption of carbon from the 
atmosphere ;”’ and, besides, we find that light and a free current of air are 
unfavourable; while moisture, shade, and a certain quantity of heat are the 
most favourable circumstances for elongation of stem. This tends to prove 
something else than that plants derive their whole support from the 
atmosphere, or die for want of food when deprived of it. 

If plants derived from the atmosphere the carbon necessary for their 
support, by the agency of light, then we might naturally conclude that 
their growth would be greatest during the day; but the result of a great 
many observations convinces me that the plants grow most, and fruit 
swells most, during the night; when, instead of inhaling, plants exhale 
carbonic acid gas. This is practically observable in hot-houses, and any 
person may be convinced of its truth by attending, night and morning, to 
the growth of any quick-growing plant. I found, for instance, that, upen 
an average, a plant of Erythrina Crista galli erew three times as much in 
the night as during the day ; the fruit of melons, that increased, upon an 
average, 1 in. in circumference during the night, grew so little during the 
day, that seldom any advance was perceivable, with the exception of one 
day, when the atmosphere was cloudy and had those appearances which 
forebode a thunder storm; cucumbers, shaded by their own leaves, grew 
nearly as much during the day as at night; but some, which I exposed 
fully to the light, did not grow in length above half as much during the day 
as during the night. These results may be accounted for by the diminu- 
tion of transpiration and the inhalation of oxygen gas, which, being neces- 
sary to the existence of animal life, and essential to the germination of the 
seed, seems likewise to exert a powerful agency it the after-processes of 
vegetation. 


Retrospective Criticism. el 


Gardeners seem to be aware of this ; as I have known them, when they 
desired a particularly heavy fruit, such as a melon, a pine, &c., about which 
they desired to make a boast, keep the plant ia a close moist atmosphere, 
and shade it from bright sunshine; knowing that, by admitting a current of 
air and the full glare of sunshine, the watery juices of the fruit would be 
perspired, and a chemical change sooner produced upon its substances; 
and that, consequently, though it would ripen sooner, be better-coloured, 
and much better-flavoured, yet it would be diminished in its weight. Ido 
not mention these things for the purpose of undervaluing light and air; I 
am quite convinced of their extreme importance; but, at the same time, I 
believe that this importance does not, in general, consist so much in giving 
food to the plant, as in acting, along with heat,as a stimulant of the vital prin- 
ciple, and in changing the nature of and assimilating the substances which the 
plant has already absorbed, and rendering them fit for its nourishment and 
support, m a manner something similar to the changes that are produced 
upon our food by the organs of digestion, and upon our blood by its 
passage through the lungs. That plants, when exposed to too much light, 
die from over-excitement, is true; but [ am not yet convinced of the pro- 
priety of saying that it is from their “ feeding too fast.”’ It is occasioned 
by too great perspiration, and by a too rapid decomposition of the carbonic 
acid which is contained in the plant, and, consequently, too great an expul- 
sion of oxygen; but I should hardly think from too great an absorption of 
carbon from the atmosphere, as the appearance of the leaves would indi- 
cate that they had very little of that power remaining. The gardener who 
has observed the change effected by removing a tender plant from partial 
shade into bright sunshine will judge for himself. 

Lhe Opinions of Mr. Gorrie and Mr. Elles on transplanting Trees and 
striking Cuttings. —J may have said too much upon the exhaling properties of 
plants ; but it seems necessary, because the overlooking of this circum- 
stance has led to mueh difference of opinion. As an evidence, I might 
refer to the sentiments of Mr. Gorrie and Mr. Elles respecting the ma- 
nagement of transplanted trees. I mention these gentlemen with the 
greatest deference, as they are both a high honour to the profession. 
Mr. Gorrie (Vol. VL. p. 44.) advocates the thinning out of the top of a 
transplanted tree, to make it proportionable to the reots; Mr. Elles (in the 
same volume, p. 546.) says “ touch not a twig nor a leaf” Both allude 
to the practice of striking cuttings, in support of their opinions. Mr. Gorrie 
takes off a few of the leaves, as an excess of foliage exhausts the sap in 
the shoot; Mr. Elles and N. H. (Vol. VL. p. 413.) are convinced of the 
impropriety of taking off a single leaf. Now, whose opinion am I to follow ? 
None of them, I reply, before examining the subject for myself. Let us 
attend to the process of striking cuttings, as illustrative of the principle 
involved in the management of transplanted trees. We leave the top of 
the tree exposed to heat, light, and air. Do we thus act towards our 
cuttings? No. Is not the first thing we attend to the preventing of per- 
spiration and the expulsion of oxygen, by keeping them from the full in- 
fluence of the sun and air, by artificial shading, and covering them with a 
frame, or a hand or a bell glass? The number of leaves is of relative im- 
portance; the fewer that are left, the less will be the exhaling or per- 
spiring surface; the greater their number, the greater may be the success, 
but that success will wholly depend upon the greater care bestowed in 
preventing evaporation from the leaves, enabling them to inhale the greatest 
quantity of oxygen, and to exhale the least, by a slow decomposition 
of their carbonic acid gas. We do not expose them to sun and air before 
they have obtained roots; and when we pot them off, we again shade them 
a little before the roots are established in their new quarters. Mr. Elles 
speaks of the absurdity of taking off a leaf of a celery plant, &c., when 

ZZ 4” 


712 Retrospective Criticism. 


transplanted; but he has not told us that the scientific gardener likewise 
shades his transplanted young celery plants. We cannot act thus with 
transplanted trees. We have got no glasses or cloths to spare for them. 
In a healthy tree, there is a beautiful harmony between the roots and the 
branches; in a transplanted tree, that harmony has, in some measure, 
been destroyed. Leave the top as it was before transplanting, and you 
leave the same exhaling surface: but how, I would ask, can the now 
mutilated and deranged state of the roots absorb sufficient moisture to 
support this ? Observation may tell us. When a cloudy wet season suc- 
ceeds, the success may be ample enough; but when the transplanting is 
followed by a season quite the reverse, do not the stunted appearance of 
the tree, and the small sickly leaf it carries for years, notwithstanding the 
assistance of the water-cart, afford a proof that Mr. Gerrie is right in 
advocating, not a decapitation, but a partial thinning out of the young 
spray of the top, to proportion the exhaling and elaborating organs of the 
plant to its power of absorption by the roots; knowing that, although 
branches produce roots, roots likewise produce branches, and that all parts 
of a plant, while they act, are also acted upon, being relative and correla- 
tive to each other ? 

As, in writing these remarks, no offence to any one is intended, I hope 
none will be taken. Any errors which they contain, I hope will be attri- 
buted to my ignorance, but not to any desire to continue in that igno- 
rance; as I shall gladly receive instruction from any quarter, and I shall 
feel much gratified if these remarks should prove the means of inciting 
some more competent individual than myself to throw additional light 
upon the subject. SSome may deem it very presumptuous for one in my 
circumstances to give an opinion at all upon such subjects ; but as I look 
forward to a period when a decision in such matters may be required of 
me, I consider it better to investigate the subject beforehand, than to have 
to learn the best methods of practice at my employer’s expense, and at 
the same time to run the hazard of incurring from him the epithet of being 
a self-sufficient ignorant gardener. I am, Sir, yours, &c.— Scientie ec 
Justitie Amator. Staffordshire, Oct. 2. 1833. 

Mr. Smith and Mr. Laundy (p. 623.), §c.— We have received a long 
rejoinder by Mr. Smith; but, the subject being of little or no interest to 
the general reader, we only notice that part of Mr. Smith’s letter in which 
he states that Mr. H. Laundy “claims the honour” of being the author of 
the criticisms on the Epsom nursery, signed Aristides, Vol. VI. p. 357. 
This we have great pleasure in making known to our readers, in order to 
clear every other person from the imputation of having written them. — 
Cond, 

Kneller Hall. (p. 523.) — I believe there is some little mistake about 
Mr. C. Calvert’s house at Witton: its name is Kneller Hall; having been 
built by Sir Godfrey Kneller, the pamter. Witton Dean is a small house 
on the right hand, farther on, belonging to Mr. Gosling of Witton Place, 
and is said to be the house in which the Duke of Argyle kept his mistress. 

The large Hickory-nut Tree at Witton. — I have been to examine this tree 
more particularly than I had before, and find it to be the Juglans nigra of 
the Hortus Kewensis. I have a small tree that had been headed down for 
years, but, by my subsequently letting it grow, it has a few nuts on it this 
year; that at Witton, no doubt, was planted by the Duke of Argyle, 
about the year 1760, and some years bears a quantity of nuts: I did not 
see one on it this year. Iam, Sir, yours, &c.— Robert Castle. Twicken- 
ham Botanic Garden, Oct. 10. 1833. 

On the Effect of Poplars in Landscape. — I reside in the country, and am 
an admirer of the beauty of our own native forest trees. Of later years, 
our landscape scenery has been disfigured by the introduction of poplars. 


Retrospective Criticism. 713 


Their pointed tops, formal growth, and gigantic size, so disproportionate to 
the natives of our own forests, occasion me to be an advocate for their 
entire disappearance from amongst us. If this be too much to expect, 
then I hope to see them confined to low and obscure situations, where 
their stiffness, formality, and disproportion will be less likely to disfigure 
the landscape. — Z. September 12. 1833. 

The writer evidently refers to the Lombardy poplar, and as evidently is 
but a smatterer in matters of taste. We request him to turn to the first 
volume of this Magazine, and to peruse Mr. Thompson’s paper on the pop- 
lar in park scenery. (p. 16.) Has Z. ever looked into the landscapes of 
eminent artists, or the engravings published from them, and marked the 
use made of poplars by those who are allowed by the general consent of 
mankind to be the best judges of landscape compositions ? When he next 
comes from his retirement in the country to London, we beg of him to 
walk from the west end of Oxford Street to Porchester Terrace, Bays- 
water, and observe, on his left hand, the fine effect of the Lombardy pop- 
lars in composition with the elms, oaks, and chestnuts in the marginal 
plantations of Kensington Gardens. That man must be wonderfully be- 
hind the times in which we now live, who would propose to banish a tree 
from the country, merely because he does not like it. — Cond. 

Mr. Mais Notes on the Cultivation and Manufacture of the Tea in China. 
(Vol. IV. p. 454.) — Mr. Main states that ‘‘a particular tract of the em- 
pire is called the tea country, viz. Tok-yen, Ho-ping, An-koy, &c., which 
1s situated between the 30th and 33d degrees of north latitude. All the 
different kinds of tea named in the invoices and in the shops of the mer- 
chants, are produced from the same kind or variety of the plant : it is only 
the times of gathering and manner of curing which cause the difference in 
appearance, quality, and value. The leaves which are gathered earliest in 
the spring make the strongest and most valuable teas ; as peko, souchong, 
&c.: and the latter gatherings are inferior, and called congou, bohea, &c. 
Green or hyson can be made of any of these gatherings, only by a different 
mode of drying. Small proportions of the leaves of other plants are 
sometimes added; but care is taken that this is not detected, as this is 
considered a deterioration; these are the leaves of the O‘lea fragrans, and 
sometimes those of the San Cha Yu (Caméllia Sasanqua) ; and in the sort 
called peko small silvery leaves may be observed, which appear to be 
those of the Azalea indica (To-kune) ; all, however, perfectly harmless. 
The Chinese, however, deny that any of the latter leaves are ever intro- 
duced.” So far Mr. Main. 

Now, in confining the tea country within the limits of 30 and 33 degrees, 
he excludes the whole of Canton province and Fokeen province, from 
whence (almost) all the black tea comes; and also Hwuy Chow Foo, in 
the province of Keang Nan, in which district the greater proportion of the 
hyson and twankay tea is manufactured; though at the same time he 
mentions the names of Ho-ping, in the province of Canton, and An-koy 
(meaning Ganke Heen), in the province of Fokeen; which latter, I pre- 
sume, is intended by Tok-yen. So far as relates to the first gatherings 
making the strongest and best teas, both of black and green, Mr. Main is 
correct ; but it is surprising that any person who has been in China, or, in- 
deed, any other person who has seen the difference in colour of the infusions 
of black and of green tea, could suppose for a moment that they are the pro- 
duce of the same plant, differing only in the mode of curing. Neither do 
they grow in the neighbourhood of each other. The black teas are chietly 
grown in the N.W. corner of the province of Fokeen, in about Jat. 27° 
50’, long. 1° 30’ E. of Peking; and the green tea, in the southern part of 
iKeang Nan province, about lat. 29° 58’, long. 2° 0’ E. of Peking. The 
leaves of the O*lea fragrans differ too much from those of tea to be mixed 


714 Retrospective Criticism. 


with tea, even if a quantity could be procured for the purpose; but this 
plant is kept chiefly for ornament, and consequently is too scarce and too 
dear. Its flowers are occasionally put among tea, but then it is only with 
very small quantities of tea intended for presents. There is no such 
plant as the San Cha Yu. Mr. Main appears to have mixed the names of 
two plants. The San Cha is the single red-flowered Caméllia japénica; the 
Yew Cha is the Caméllia oleifera Loureiro, a single white-flowered kind of 
Camélla, from the seeds of which, much of the oil used at Canton is ex- 
pressed; but the leaves of these plants are too thick and harsh to be 
mixed with tea without immediate detection. The silvery leaves, which 
Mr. Main supposes to be those of Azalea indica, are, in reality, the early 
shoots of the tea-plant: the leaves of Azalea are too scarce, and would be 
too dear, for mixing with tea. 

Mr. Main’s Observations upon Chinese Scenery, &c. (Vol. Il. p. 135.) re- 
quire some corrections. The view (fig. 38.) could not have been seen in 
the neighbourhood cf Canton.* The (Mackcan) Epidéndrum fuscatum 
would now be thought dear at one dollar per plant. ‘The Pyrus does not 
come under the generic name Cha. The Chinese divide the Linnean 
genus; the eatable varieties fall in with the plums, under the generic term 
Le; while Pyrus japénica [Cydonia japénica] and [Pyrus] spectabilis unite 
with Hypericum mondgynum under (what may be called) the generic term 
Hoey Tang. — J. Reeves. Clapham, Oct. 28. 1833. 

Additional notes in relation to the history of the tea plant will be found 
in Vol. VIII. p.89. 490. —J. D. 

Mr. Munro’s Suggestion (p. 551.) for the Formation of a Sylvan Society 
I am much pleased with,,and Iagree with him in almest all he says on the 
subject. I seldom pass by other people’s woods or plantations but my 
fingers itch to thin, and weed, and prune out. In short, as Mr. Munro 
has truly said, “ the greater proportion cf our woods, from neglect or 
mismanagement, look as if they belonged to nobody.” 

The Oak Trees which turn away their Heads from the South-west (p. 548.), 
described by Mr. Clarke, are by no means peculiar to his part of the 
country [Poole, Dorsetshire]. Years ago, I was much struck with the 
same thing in the Isle of Wight, and have often said, that, were I ignorant 
of the points of the compass, I could immediately discover them by looking 
at an oak tree. Even in Warwickshire, in exposed situations, the oak 
trees show their aversion to the south-west, by turning away their heads 
from that quarter.— W. 7. Bree. Allesley Rectory, near Coventry, War- 
wickshire, Oct. 19. 1833. 

Mr. Munro’s Mode of training the Oak Tree for Naval Purposes. — Sir, 
Your valuable correspondent, Mr. Munro, certainly deserves high com- 
mendation for the enthusiastic love of country displayed in the preamble 
of his communication “ on training the oak tree, soas to produce curved 
timber for use in the construction of ships” (p. 557.) ; but, as far as [can 
see into the system Mr. Munro has adopted,1 think that his zeal has 
rather surpassed his good sense. Had Mr. Munro remained two or three 
years longer in the place where he began to conduct his experiments, | am 
afraid he would have found the results very different from what he anti- 
cipated. In giving his paper an attentive perusal, the following (what I 
conceived) imperfections 1m his plan occurred to me, and, if | am wrong in 
my conclusions, | beg that Mr. Munro, or any of your able correspondents, 
will be so good as set me right. 


* Mr. Main is not responsible for these views. We had them copied from 
a well-known French work, entitled Recueil des Jardins Chinois. —Cond. 


Retrospective Criticism. 715 


It appears to me that the part of the trunk left above the upper shoot 
(which in trees sixteen or twenty years old, and at 7 ft. from the ground, 
is generally from 3 in. to 5in. in diameter), from its want of foliage, must 
inevitably decay down to the knee where the upper shoot strikes off, and 
that the accumulation of wood and bark below this will ultimately form a 
cup or hollow which will contain moisture sufficient to rot the centre of 
the trunk for a considerable distance downward. Consequently, the tree 
will be rendered unfit for any purpose where strength or durability is 
an object. It is always found to be the case, that trees or shoots, when 
supported by posts or otherwise, ultimately become too weak to support 
themselves when the said props are removed; therefore I am of opinion 
that the wind, acting upon the points of Mr. Munro’s horizontal shoots, 
would cause sad twisting and creaking among their knees and curves. I 
am also much inclined to think that he would find considerable difficulty in 
supplying his six or eight shoots with an equal quantity of nourishment, as 
the uppermost would naturally have a strong pull for the advantage, 
which, if it once attained, it would, in all likelihood, keep, if some means 
or other were not adopted to prevent it. It is a common saying, “ Bend 
the twig when it is young, and it will retain its form.” Mr. Munro seems 
to have acted upon this principle; but I am afraid the shoots will not 
keep the form in which he left them. Trees and branches, when bent 
down from their natural position, have always a strong tendency to rise 
upwards. This I have seen exemplified in the case of oak, willow, apple, 
pear, larch, and other kinds of trees, when thrown or bent down, either by 
wind or otherwise, provided as much of the root remained in the ground 
as kept them alive, even although they were upwards of 1 ft. in diameter. 
This leads me to think that, if the trees Mr. Munro experimented upon be 
upright-growing varieties (even supposing them to have withstood the 
effects of the wind), what he intended for curves and knees will, in the 
end, turn out only slight bends, and if more than one, or at most two, 
shoots take the lead, they will be nothing but a mass of confusion. 

My own opinion is, that collecting acorns of the most crooked 
varieties of oak, and planting their produce on the outside of plantations, 
or in such situations that one side of the oak may be deprived of light 
and air, by its nearness to other trees of stronger growth, together with 
judicious pruning, is the most effectual method of procuring crooked 
oak timber. If you think these remarks worthy of your notice, this may 
perhaps be the subject of another communication. I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
— A Journeyman Gardener. Inchture, N. B., Oct. 21. 1833. 

We shall be happy to hear frequently from so intelligent a correspond- 
ent; but we beg to remind him, that, in criticising the opinion of a 
writer who gives his name, good and brotherly feeling requires that the 
critic should give his name also. — Cond. 

Difficulties opposing the Efforts of any one to decorate, by planting (as 
advised in p. 543—550.), Grounds on the Sea Coast.— Sir, I believe that 
sea air is always very injurious to vegetation, but I have observed that it 
is particularly so in high winds and hurricanes. I have, however, never 
observed any injurious effects result to plants from contiguity to the ocean, 
when the wind has blown from the land. Much depends on the position 
of the situation relative to the sea. The point from which the wind blows 
most in Britain is the west, or one or other of the points adjoining the 
west, and the sea winds from these points are more powerful than from 
any other; because, as Britain is so near the Atlantic Ocean, it follows 
that the wind is stronger on the west coast than on the eastern one, as the 
latter lies near the German Ocean, which is small in comparison with the 
Atlantic, and has besides the continent of Europe and Asia beyond it. I 
know less of the east coast than of the west. The soil of the coast of 


716 Retrospective Criticism. 


Lancashire, on which I have made my observations, is very barren and 
poor. Along the coast, and to the north of Liverpool, where many im- 
provements have been made, I have had an opportunity of observing the 
effects of the sea air and sea winds, and have found that much depends 
on the distance which the trees are from the water. Plants which will not 
live close beside the sea, will do so, and in some degree thrive, a mile or 
two fromit. I have seen as much difference in trees of one species which 
have grown in these different situations, as there is between a gooseberry 
bush and a full-grown oak tree. Much, also, depends upon the nature of 
the situation: if sheltered by hills, or by a sea wall, so much the better. A 
little, also, depends on the nature of the soil; as, the nearer it is to the sea, 
the more sandy it becomes. Plants will not, however, thrive in either 
rich or poor soil, if exposed to the main force of the winds; as it is the 
particles of salt, carried over and sprinkled upon the plants by the sea 
wind, which produce these injurious effects. Ii the plants can be screened 
from these particles, many kinds will live for a time, but will not attain to 
a great age. Many are blown down by the high winds, or broken off. 
Some kinds of plants will do in places in which others would perish ; ob- 
servation alone can ascertain those which will do best: I have noticed the 
same species in various positions. Some sorts, that do elsewhere in poor 
soils, cannot endure poor soil in conjunction with the salt air: other sorts 
will do sheltered by the more hardy ones. I have not found any to endure 
the vicinity of the sea Be well as the black Italian poplar and the willow; 
and these have, according to my experience, proved the best adapted to 
screen the others. Most other kinds can hardly maintain a bare existence 
if within a mile of the sea, and not screened. The sycamore, beech, alder, 
mountain ash, elms, Spanish chestnut, horsechestnut, birch, and haw- 
thorns may be ranked next to the above for hardiness. The oak and the 
larch require to be well screened to live at all. The Scotch and most 
other pines can only maintain a bare existence, when well screened; at 
least, it is seldom that they live through the first year; and though here 
and there one may be seen behind other trees, it is sure to have only a few 
branches, and those all reclining to the east. Of the hardier shrubs which 
thrive, more or less, near the sea, I may mention the common privet, Per- 
sian and common lilacs, philadelphuses, Guelder rose, elder, laburnum, 
dogwood, ivy, honeysuckles, and many others. Some more tender may 
also exist ; these require a place to the east of the hardier kinds. As all 
usually exhibit a posture reclining eastward, and have but few or no 
branches to the westward, the appearance of a shrubbery or of a round 
clump never has a good effect; and the trees most to the westward, 
though of twenty years’ standing, are only like shrubs. All trees planted 
near the sea, on the west coast, recline, in a greater or less degree, to the 
east, and form thus a regular slope. If screened by a wall on the west, 
those nearest it will never attain a height greater than that of the wall: 
they may make fine shoots in the summer, but in the winter these shoots 
will be killed down to the level of the wall: in proportion to the distance ’ 
of the plants from the wall, they gradually rise higher. 

It must also be observed, that it is labour in vain to plant trees or shrubs 
in sucha situation before the end of Mar ch, as the winds previously to that 
period are very strong from the west; allowance, of course, being made 
according to the distance from the sea. 

I may here notice two ash trees, 14 mile from the sea, as a proof that at 
that distance they will attain a large size. They stand fully exposed, in a 
hedgerow by the side of a road, and are of a sufficient size to form an 
arch over it. I have often got up one of these trees, walked along its main 
stem, and descended with ease at the extremity, going across from one field 
into the other, and passing over the road. There are many instances of 


Retrospective Criticism. aly 


trees standing alone, of somewhat the form of those figured in fig. 127., and 
described in p. 549., by your correspondent, W. B. Clarke. 

At Seaforth House, and in its neighbourhood, near the sea, Many im- 
provements have been made. When we have planted a small plot of trees 
in an exposed situation, they have oftentimes all died, without even coming 
into leaf; and if a gap has been made in a plantation previously formed, it 
is seldom that the trees fresh planted to fill it up succeed, as we have 
renewed them several times, trying both young and old plants. 

Evergreens will not thrive at ail near the sea, unless they are well sheltered 
with other trees and shrubs; and even then, if merely small bushes, they 
will not do much. Some of the hardiest sorts of American plants will do 
for a time, but in general they die away. Very few kinds of plants look 
well, as most of them become full of dead wood in a short time. 

Gardens contiguous to the ocean exhibit the best appearance in the 
summer, when the annuals and bulbs are in flower; these not being affected, 
from the season in which they blossom. I may here mention an instance 
of a gentleman coming to reside on the coast, who determined to screen 
ali bis land with trees, as he said that trees would do very well in Scotland 
15 miles from the sea; as, indeed, they would do here, within a less 
distance than that. He therefore obtained a man from Scotland to achieve 
the object desired. He planted trees, &c., at the edge of the water, and 
created a laugh amongst his neighbours. I left that neighbourhood soon 
afterwards, and cannot state the results from observation ; but | am quite 
aware that they would all die, and this (as they were planted in February) 
even before they came into leaf. 

Of the British Plants which grow spontaneously near the sea, I will, with 
your leave, name a few species: — Cynogléssum officinale, Erythrz‘a agere- 
gata, Gentidana campestris, Parnassia palustris, Ondnis spinosa, Senecio 
vulgaris, Sédum sexangulare, Achilléa /Millefolium, Alchemilla vulgaris, 
Scabidsa arvénsis; Erica vulgaris, 7’étralix, and cinérea, but very dimi- 
nutive; yellow cytisus [? Cytisus scoparius, ? Genista tinctoria], eyebright 
{? Euphrasia officinalis]. 

Hawthorn Hedges stand as well as any thing. If the wind blows strong 
from the west, all the branches on that side are-quite wet, and on touching 
them with the tongue, have a very salt taste; and this prevalence of salt 
I believe to be the cause of the young shoots being killed yearly. 

Most of the kinds of trees and shrubs mentioned would do, no doubt, a 
little better with a better soil; as the natural one is very sandy, although 
a little below there is a bed of clay, which helps to keep the other moist. 
Lam, Sir, yours, &c. — Philip Davies. Upton, near Stratford, Essex, Oct. 24. 

The difficulties attendant on forming a garden on the coast, remind us 
of those noticed by Dr. Howison as incident to Shetland, in his MS. tour 
to those islands, some years ago, with which he favoured us. He states that 
*‘ the fisheries and kelp manufacture are the principal sources of wealth of 
the inhabitants, and constitute the chief value of the Shetland Islands, in a 
national point of view. Gardening is rarely attempted, and only by some 
of the principal proprietors. The most common culinary vegetables re- 
quire the protection of lofty walls; and the hardy gooseberry trained to 
them. produces only a few half-ripe fruit im the month of September !” 
To give an idea of the state of gardening there, Dr. Howison relates, that 
William Mouat, Esq., proprietor of the Island of Brassa, “ every few years 
gets a young gardener from the south country, who, although he enjoys a 
good salary and every comfort, disgusted with the unsuccessful result of 
his labours, becomes low-spirited, and soon returns again to a more genial 
clime, where his professional toils are rewarded with success.” Agriculture 
is also at a low ebb; oats, barley, and potatoes are raised on the few spots 
of arable land, but they are, from the rigour of the climate, always inferior. 


718 Retrospective Criticism. 


The Action of Soot on Grubs. (p. 573.) — To test the statement made in 
p.573. of the fatal, or at least unwelcome, influence of soot on grubs, I 
have put two fine fellows separately in garden pots partly filled with a 
mixture of soot and earth, and have given them the green herbage of 
potato plants for food. When they have eaten what they like, they bury 
themselves in the mixture, regardless of the soot. — J. D., sen. 

Anon.’s Device (p. 569.) for preventing the Ravages of Rooks on newly- 
sown Corn. — It would not much grieve me to see Anon. subjected to a six 
hours’ taste of the misery to which the device he recommends must neces- 
sarily subject that truly useful bird, the rook ; a bird that confides in man, 
that builds its nest and rears its young on the trees that shade his dwelling, 
that follows his plough within a few yards of the driver, and destroys the 
larvee of numerous insects that would otherwise destroy his crop. Hunger 
may compel the rook to feed on grain; but it is too well known for me to 
say any thing about it, that its favourite food is insects in the larva state. 
But granted that the rook may be injurious to crops newly sown, is our 
population so thin that no children can be found for 6d. or 8d. a day each, 
to keep off the depredators for a few days, until the crop is up? Yes, and 
at less expense than Anon’s infernal machines would cost him. I have 
repeatedly examined the crops of rooks. In six young that had been shot, 
the crops were nearly filled with wireworms; in the crops of others I 
have found the larva of the cockchafer, and other grubs that I am not 
entomologist enough to know the names of. In one or two instances, in 
frosty weather, I have examined the crop of one or more rooks that had 
been shot; it contained dung, earth, and a small portion of grain. I will 
just notice, that the land adjoining Mr. Wiles’s rookery is yearly sown 
with pulse or grain, and in no instance have 1 known or heard that the 
land has, in consequence, failed of a crop. — J. D. sen. Oct. 17. 1833. 

The home-made Snuff (p. 586, 587.), tested by a most experienced snuff- 
taker, and found deficient, was sent hence on February 13.: and on 
May 24., when I had the pleasure to see you at Bayswater, Mr. D. showed 
me the snuff, the bottle which contained it being without a cork, and he 
informed me, that one person to whem he had submitted it compared its 
strength to that of the foreign snuff of the shops as 5 to 7; but that 
another gentleman was to-give a final decision upon its merits. Now, an 
experienced snufi-taker knows well, that if he were to have his box of high- 
dried Welsh open only for a day or two, its contents would become vapid, 
its flavour deteriorated, and its pungency materially lessened. There is, 
too, another circumstance that I should mention, viz., that no other sub- 
stance had been added to mine, while the snuffs of the shops are never 
free from them. Ihave now some Welsh before me, brought by a friend 
from Lachern y Medd, a village in North Wales, where large quantities are 
manufactured: in this I can, without difficulty, distinguish a number of 
white particles, gritty under the knife, which I presume to be lime, as, on 
sprinkling a small quantity of this snuff on the surface of some water, these 
particles invariably sink first ; and on putting some of them, which I have 
picked out separately, into water, I find that they require, though they do 
at length dissolve, a large proportion of water to effect it. I took care 
that the water employed should be free from lime, and on the addition of 
a solution of oxalic acid, it was again precipitated. It has been always 
affirmed, and | believe with truth, that carbonate and muriate of ammonia, 
and, in moist snuffs, if not in dry, chloride of soda (common salt), are in- 
variable ingredients. I have, to some of my own snuff, added a portion of 
carbonate of ammonia, and find the pungency much increased thereby, as 
would, from the very nature of the salt, be expected. Iwas not before 
aware that lime was ever employed; but we may easily judge of its effects 
from its caustic nature. — J. C. K. Levant Lodge, Oct. 23. 1833. 


Queries and Answers. 719 


ArT. V. Queries and Answers. 


AppITIONAL Information to that of J.D. as to the Mode of taking Impres- 
sions ofthe Leaves of Plants. (Vol. 1X. p.629.) — Sir, lf W.Whiddon should 
not come forward with his method of taking the impressions of leaves, 
&c., the following, I hope, will meet the wishes of J. Polleck ; — 

Directions for taking Impressions from Plants, on Cotton, Silk, Lawn, Mus- 
lin, or Linen.— The colours, which may be obtained from any chemist’s, 
must be prepared with cold-drawn linseed oil. The balls are to be 
made of soft leather, and stuffed with wool. If the impressions be taken 
on paper, they may be coloured afterwards with any water-colour. 

Directions for making the Colours. — Lampblack or ivory black makes 
black; king’s yellow or orpiment makes yellow; Prussian blue and king’s 
yellow, added together, make green ; rose pink or drop lake makes pink ; 
smalt or Prussian blue makes blue; vermilion or carmine makes red. 
A thimbleful of roche alum, added to one ounce of any of the above co- 
lours, will make them stand washing and wearing. 

Iam entirely of opinion, with J. D., that “no practical advantage 
seems derivable from this knowledge (the knowledge itself is very well) ; 
for dried specimens of leaves, and such other flat objects as one can take 
profiles of by means of it, are far more useful, and as easily prepared.” 

I had all the necessary implements for the process, and took many im- 
pressions, but I gave it over as waste of time, compared with that em- 
ployed in preparig specimens themselves. If the botanical knowledge of 
plants be the end in view, the, I may almost say, indelible, impression 
of the name and habit of the species, left on the mind by the necessary 
attention and labour attendant on drying them, and afterwards anointing 
them with a mixture of the muriate of mercury and camphorated spirits 
of wine, for their final preservation from insects, is of quadruple the im- 
portance, in promoting the knowledge or remembrance of them, that 
taking the mere profiles of their leaves is. Indeed, if a person has in his 
possession the Hneyclopedia of Plants and Hortus Britannicus, and under- 
stands botanical terms (which, if he does not, they will explain to him), he 
may almost determine the name of any species contained in these volumes. 
—lIam, Sir, yours, &c. — George Thomson. High Elms, Oct. 26. 1833. 

By what harmless Means can Martins and Swallows be induced to cease 
building and breeding in the Places in which they have been long allowed to 
build and breed ?— The affection for locality is so strong in the swallow 
and martin, that they can scarcely be driven away from an old establish- 
ment. Chicherley Hall, Bucks, having for several years been neglected, 
a free opportunity has been given to the birds to affix to it some 
hundreds of nests in a season, under the cornice of the mansion. Last 
year, I tried to scare them away by nets, feathers, gas tar, destroying their 
nests, &c., and all to no purpose. [The martin has been known to renew 
its nest four times in one season, in one place.]|_ As I do not wish to kiil 
the little creatures, I solicit some correspondent to inform me of a means 
by which I can drive them away. — Wilham Whiddon. Chicherley Hall, 
Bucks, Feb. 28. 1833. 

To this query, which we have published in the Magazine of Natural 
History (vol. vi. p. 456.), a correspondent (Mr. Fennell) has replied, and 
recommended Mr. Whidden “ to obviate the possibility of the swallows’ 
and martins’ being at the trouble of erecting their nests, by spreading a 
thick coating of soap upon the sides of such places as the birds have been 
in the habit of appropriating to their own use. Whenever the birds at- 
tempt to stick their muddy materials up, its moisture will moisten the soap, 

and the sliminess of this will prevent the adherence of the muddy mate- 


720 Queries and Answers. 


rial, and cause it to fall down upon the earth. I believe this to be an old 
plan, and an effectual one.” 

The Elms in Camberwell Grove, §c. (p. 630.) — I cannot answer the 
query in this case, having never seen the elms in Paris; but their pro- 
ducing abundance of seed is no criterion of distinction. A green-house 
plant will sometimes flower better in a poor man’s window than in a first- 
rate green-house under a first-rate gardener. The question is too vague 
to be answered. I believe there are as many varieties of oaks and elms 
in England as there are of apples and pears. — Agronome. Oct. 29. 1833. 

The Lag in Timber. (p.629.)—An experienced forester can as readily dis- 
cern when a tree is affected with the lag, as an experienced shepherd can 
discern when his sheep is affected with the rot ; and the knife for the sheep 
and the axe for the tree are the best remedies for each. The immediate 
cause of the disease (the lag) may, however, be generally traced back to 
a wet summer and an early winter ; such as those of the year 1816 and the 
year 1822. The alburnum in these seasons never got thoroughly ripened, 
because the leaves had not a chance of finishing their labours of pumping 
off the extra-moisture ; and as the tree, in such a case, becomes top-heavy, 
and is easily blown about by the winds, the weakest circle fails first. — 
Agronome. Oct. 29. 1833. 

Treatment of a Plantation of young Oaks.— Your correspondent, “ A 
Reader ”’ (p.630.) should by no means cut down his young oaks, but 
should prune them well and properly for ten or twelve years to come ; 
that is, with a long chisel and mallet, to strike off all rival leaders, and all 
such boughs as intrude upon the adjoining trees. Should any of the trees 
have a head like a besom, weed out three fourths of it, preserving a 
leader. Should the trees be only 4 ft. apart, they may stand thus till 
every one is fit for sawmg down into two 9-ft. rails. Then the forester 
should keep on felling the worst every year, till the trees stand about 20 ft. 
asunder, when he must leave the estate to his son. — Agronome. Oct. 1833. 

Treatment of a Plantation of young Oaks. (p. 630.) — Assuming the soil 
to be favourable to the quick growth of oak, from that tree having been 
selected, I would cut down, as soon as they will peel, in the spring, as 
many of the trees as will leave a crop for timber, standing at least 60 ft. 
apart, and cut them very carefully 3 or 4.in. above the ground, so as not 
to injure or wound the stool]. If the trees are left thicker than I have 
inentioned, they will materially injure the growth from the stools. I 
should not recommend an increase of the stools by layering; because, al- 
though new stools will be thereby more quickly established, they will, of 
necessity, be much too near together. A great deal of produce is sacri- 
ficed annually in coppices, as in most other crops, by filling them up too 
closely, and thereby excluding the sun and air, so essential to their fer- 
tility. I am strongly inclined to think that, where oak coppice thrives 
well, the stool, in a given number of years, will pay better than the timber : 
the bark of the young growths being very superior in quality ; but an 
owner of woodland in Herefordshire would be a better authority for “ A 
Reader’s”’ guide than I am. — Charles Lawrence. Cirencester, Oct. 4. 1833. 

Treatment of a Plantation of young Oaks. (p. 630.) — “ A Reader”? would 
more readily have obtained an answer to his query, had he entered a little 
more into details, and stated the exposure, and the quality of the soil, of 
his plantation ground, and also the distance at which the trees at present 
stand from each other, &c. If the oaks have been planted at what is ce- 
neraily admitted to be the proper distance, viz. 8 ft. apart every way then 
the most profitable method of managing the plantation is turning it into 
copsewood; as, if allowed to remain long at this distance, on cA 
Reader” will, I think, on reflection, confess that it is quite impossible for 
them to become useful timber. Supposing this to be the case, I would 
advise, without further delay, that the plantation should be thinned out ; 


Queries and Answers. 721 


_ leaving the trees 18 ft. or 24 ft. apart ; varying this distance, less or more, in 
favour of a better tree. The bark obtained at this cutting will more than 
meet the expense of labour, and the wood will make superior charcoal. 
From fifteen to twenty years hence, when the coppice is ready for a 
second cutting, “ A Reader” will be able to judge what number of trees 
should be left as permanent standards of those reserved at the first cut- 
ting. Most of these trees will by that time have arrived at a bearing 
state; and “ A Reader” will do well to select as many as possible, 
for the permanent standards, of Quércus ?obur, in preference to Q. sessi- 
liflora; the latter yielding the least valuable timber. Such of the trees 
reserved at the first cutting, as now require to be removed, will turn to 
good account in bark, and the wood at this age will be fit for various 
useful purposes. Having said thus much, I trust it is hardly necessary to 
remind “ A Reader” of the impropriety of thinning out to the permanent 
distance at once; for, if the plantation be as thick of trees as it ought to 
be, to lay it open at once might be too great a transition, and consequently 
hurtful to the remaining standards; which is a sufficient evil of itself, in- 
dependently of the depreciation of bark and timber which such a course 
would effect. With regard to laying down branches of oaks, for filling up 
blanks in the plantation, that may be done any time between November 
and April. It is, however, more a curious, than useful, piece of cultiva- 
tion; and I would recommend employing stout young oak plants, at once, 
to fill up blanks; say 3 ft. to 34 ft. high. Such plants can be had for from 
35s. to 40s. per 1000. In cutting coppice wood, perhaps the following 
hints might be worth “ A Reader’s”’ consideration : — Oak should not be 
cut until the leaves are nearly full-blown ; otherwise the bark cannot be 
separated frem the weod to any advantage. In Scotland, the cutting of 
coppices seldom commences before the first week of June: before the 
stools throw out the young suckers, four or six weeks more elapse; and 
before these shoots are ripened the winter sets in. The consequence is, 
that all, or the greater part, of these shoots are partially destroyed; and 
this circumstance causes a numerous increase of laterals in the following 
summer; by which the stool is materially weakened, and the cutting of 
the coppice wood retarded two or three years at least. To obviate this 
defect of our climate, I once tried the following experiment, which, 
although not upon a scale sufficiently extensive to warrant my recom- 
mending it in preference to any other mode, yet, I must say, produced a 
result which was so much to my satisfaction, that I do certainly consider 
it worthy of a trial upon a larger scale : — On the Ist of November, 1825, 
after having pitched on six young oak trees, 5 or 6 inches in diameter, I cut 
off the communication between the root and top by the bark: this I ac- 
complished by cutting out a piece of bark, about an inch broad, all round the 
tree, 2 or 3 inches above the surface of the ground. My motive for this was, 
to let the stool have the full advantage of the returning spring growth. 
On the 4th of June following, when I came to cut these trees down, I 
found them in full leaf, or nearly so, with suckers below the part where 
the bark was cut out; several of which were 3 in, and 4 in, in diameter, and 
two of them nearly 6in. in length. A little attention was necessary in 
cutting down the heads from the stools, which I performed with a small 
pruning saw, in the month of July. I thinned the suckers on the stools, 
so as to leave only five on each. These ripened well, and made from 
5 ft. to 7 ft. of wood in the course of the season: however, in the ensuing 
winter they were mostly eaten down to within 6 in. of the stools by hares. 
I cannot understand what tempts gentlemen to harbour these confounded 
yermin about them. Cutting with the saw may be considered a more ex- 
pensive operation than with the axe; but if, as I believe, it has a tendency 
to advance the growth of the coppice by two or three years, perhaps it 1s 

Vou. 1X. — No. 47. 3A 


722 Queries and Answers. 


the cheapest in the end. One advantage of using the saw is, that the 
roots of the stool are not shaken by it, as they are by the stroke of the 
axe; and taking out a piece of the bark, or ringing as.it is termed, in the 
early part of the winter, is also advantageous, in as far as, before the top 
is cut off, the bark is firmly united to the wood of the stool; by means of 
which there is no shrinking, as is the case when the bark and wood are 
cut at the same time and the sap is rising. Consequently there is no 
opening between the wood and bark for the lodgement of rain-water, or 
moisture of any kind, to cause the stool to decay. I am, Sir, yours, &c.— 
James Munro. Brechin Nursery, Oct. 1833. 

The Box Tree. — As the wood of this tree is now greatly in demand for 
the wood cutters (see Penny Magazine, supplement for Oct.), how far 
would it be worth while to make plantations of it in those parts of Eng- 
land where it is understood to have been formerly abundant? How 
many years would the tree require before its trunk became fit for use ? 
Would it be advisable to try the Balearic box ?— EH. H. Green. October, 
1832. 

Pumping. — What disease among larch trees is meant by this term, used 
in p. 553.2 — W. T. Bree. Allesley Rectory, Oct. 19. 1833. 

The Female of the Lombardy or Turin Poplar (Populus dilatata \.).— 
Has it yet been established in this country? In 1830 it was in Vol. VI. 
p. 419.) stated that M.C. A. Fischer, of the Gottingen botanic garden, 
had succeeded in finding one female tree amongst many thousand male 
ones around Gottingen, and that he had sent cuttings of it to the Botanic 
Garden at Bury St. Edmunds, which had failed to grow.— C. M. W. 
London, Sept. 10. 1833. 

On cultivating Xanthochymus tinctorius Rox., in relation to the Question on 
cultivating the Mangosteen, asked in p. 378.— J. B., in asking, in p. 378., 
for information on the method of so cultivating the mangosteen in Europe 
as to cause it to produce fruit, refers to your mention, in p. 150., of the 
mangosteen’s being in cultivation in M. Boursault’s collection. Youhave 
joined J. B. in requesting some facts on our mode of training this plant, 
which I readily communicate ; but it unfortunately happens that the plant 
you have mentioned as the true mangosteen (Garcinia Mangostana L.) is not 
that species, but the Xanthochymus tinctorius Row., figured in Roxburgh’s 
work, The Plants of the Coast of Coromandel, t. 196. With regard to this latter 
plant, M. David, of whom you have spoken im p. 147., has communicated to 
me the following facts : — His tree is growing in a round box, 18 in. in dia~ 
meter, plunged ina bark bed inthestove. The soil which agrees with it is 
pure heath mould, or rather heath mould, mixed with common garden soil, 
or tarfy loam. The plant is 5 or 6 feet in height, and is devoid of branches 
for 2 or 3 feet up; the branches then commence, and form a rounded head, 
of no very great circumference. It is not upon a trellis. The stem at the 
bottom is not so thick as my wrist. The plant bears fruits as large as fine 
green gage plums (belles Reines Claudes), either single, or more frequently 
united in twos, threes, or fours, and with flavescent flowers. It has 
borne fruit for several years, and receives no particular treatment. It 
is necessary that it be kept in a hot and moist atmosphere, in a good 
hot-house ; but, above all, the roots of the plant should be constantly kept 
very warm. If the heat of the tan be weakened, or if the plant be kept 
any time out of the tan, it is immediately perceivable by the foliage. The 
fruit, M. David states, is delicious, and always cool, although gathered ina 
very warm atmosphere, and eaten immediately. M. David has raised 
several plants from the seed of his tree, which appear to be as vigorous as 
their parent. He has now two about 18 in. in height, both of which are 
thriving very well. — L. 0.2L. Paris, July 6. 1833. 


Queries and Answers. 723 


We shall be glad to hear more frequently from this esteemed friend and 
correspondent, than we have done for some time past. — Cond. 

Tubers of Péonies eaten into by the Grubs of a Moth ; of what Species? 
— The plants of my collection of pzonies, which consisted of upwards of 
twenty-seven kinds, had been planted some few years, when several of 
them died, and others began to decrease rather than increase in size, This 
led me to transplant, this autumn, the plants remaining, when I found, to 
my great surprise, the tubers eaten away in an extraordinary manner by 
the larvee (grubs) of some insect; and, as J did not find the grubs about 
other kinds of plants in the same plot of ground, I suppose they may be 
peculiar to ponies. The grub is flabby, of a bluish white, from 1 in. to 14 in. 
im length, with a yellow head. Of what insect is it? Has any correspond- 
ent observed the tubers of pzeonies similarly ravaged? — EH. London. 
Oct. 23. 1833. 

I have known the tubers of pzonies, the rootstocks and fibrous roots 
of veronicas and of other plants ravaged by the grubs of one or more spe- 
cies of moth ofthe family Nocttiadz. Veronicas, and other freely growing 
herbaceous plants, in two or three years form a tuft or little hillock of 
matted fibres, which afford fine pasturage for ground grubs, the effects of 
whose ravages are soon shown in the plant. Transplantation, and killing 
the grubs, are the only remedies I know of. It is just possible that E.’s 
grubs were of the cockchafers (Zeloléntha vulgaris and J. solstitialis) or 
of the rose-coloured beetle (Cetonia aurata).— J. D. 

The Moorpark Apricot is subject to a disease by which its branches die 
suddenly, without any previous indication of want of health or strength. 
Can any of your readers say what is the cause? — J. 8. H. Oct. 28. 1833. 

Packing Fruit. — What is the best way of packing fruit to travel; par- 
ticularly strawberries, grapes, and peaches ? — A Constant Reader. Oct. 10. 
1833. 

Nets for Gardening and Fishing, and other Purposes ; that is, that have 
to be much exposed to the weather; what is the best preparation for pre- 
serving them? Tar is too sticky.— B. 

Mr. Main has told us that some fishermen send their nets to a tanner’s, 
to have them tanned previously to using them. — Cond. 

Gold and Silver Fishes. — How are these managed in glass globes or in 
basins, during the winter and the summer ?— Wm. Godsall. Hereford, 
Oct. 16. 1833. 

Some information on the management of gold and silver fishes has been 
previously given in Vol. III. p. 382. and Vol. IV. p. 191. 319. 

Filtering Machine. — What is the best filtering machine, adapted from 
its price, for cottages, in a situation where the water is totally unfit for 
use ? — A Constant Reader. Oct. 10. 1833. 

Take a large flower-pot, and put either a piece of sponge or some 
cleanly washed moss (Sphagnum is to be preferred) over the hole at the 
bottom. Fill the pot three fourths full with a mixture of equal parts of 
clean sharp sand and charcoal broken into pieces about the size of peas. 
On this lay a piece of linen or woollen cloth, large enough to hang over 
the sides of the pot. Pour the water to be filtered into the basin formed 
by the cloth, and it will come out pure through the sponge in the bot- 
tom. The cloth must be frequently taken out and washed, as must the 
sand and charcoal, and the piece of sponge or moss in the bottom. 
The larger the pot, the more complete will be the filtration. The charcoal 
is easily procured, by burning a few pieces of wood in a slow fire. This 
is the cheapest description of filter which we know of. Inthe Mechanics’ 
Magazine, and in our Encyclopedia of Cottage, Farm, and Villa Architec- 
ture, will be found several others calculated for cottagers and farmers. — 
Cond. 

3A 2 


724: Covent Garden Market. 


Art. VI. Covent Garden Market. 


zr ’ From To From To 
The Cabbage Tribe. £s. di£ 5. ad. £ 5. a. & s. a. 
Cabbage, per dozen: | 
White» 5 3 - |0 0 9|0 1 O|| Fennel, per dozen bunches} 9 1 0/0 1 6 
Red Z ~ . |0 2 6{|0 3 O|| Thyme, per dozen bunches}9 2 6/0 0 0 
Plants or Coleworts - |0 3 0|0 3 6) Sage, per dozen bunches -|9 2 0}0 0 0 
Savoys 5 - |0 1 6/0 2 6)| Dried Mint, per dozen 
Cauliflowers, per dozen - |9 1 6/0 2 6 bunches - aio oe 01 A 
Broccoli, per bunch: | Peppermint, per doz. bunch. ) 0;}0 0 
White 3 - |0 1 3/0 2 0} Marjoram, per doz. bunches 0 010;0 1 0 
Gren ~ |0 1 0]|0 1 8|| Savory, per dozen bunches |9 1 0/0 0 0 
Cape - - {0 1 0]0 1 6/|| Basil, perdozenbunches |9 1 3/0 1 6 
Lavender, per doz. bunches} 9 4 0/0 0 O 
Tubers and Roots. Rosemary, per doz. bunches} 9 6 0|0 0 0 
perton | 0 4 0 0 oO | stalks and Fruits for Tart 
Potatoes - percwt. 0} 10) Oy sun) |PS2 aes ene rusts fon Hanes, 
per bushel 0201026 Pickling, &c. 
Kidney 0 . |0 2 6} 0: 8 0|| Tomatoes, per sieve ol)0 28 Gia to w 
Scotch - .- - |0 2 0/0 2 38)| Capsicums, per hundred 020/04 0 
Jerusalem Artichokes, per 
half sieve - - |0 10/0 1 6)| Faibie Fungi and Fuci. 
Turnips, White, per bunch} 0 0 2/0 0 3 Alina 
Carrots, per bunch = - 0-0 4/0 0 6|| Mushrooms, per pottle - |0 13/0 1 6 
Red Beet, per dozen _ 10 1 610 2 Q|| Morels, dried, per pound -|014 0/0 0 0 
Horseradish, per bundle- |0 2 0|0 4 0|| Truffles, per pound: 
Radishes : English, green - 10 46/0 5 0 
Red, per dozen hands Foreign, dried - - |014 0/0 0 0 
(24 to 30each) - - 06/0 09 Fruit 
White Turnip, per bunch} 9 0 2/0 0 3 ruils. 
Apples, Dessert, per bushel : 
The Spinach Tribe. Nonpareils - - 1010 0} 012 y 
; er sieve - 10\/016 Ribston Pippin - - |0 4 6/0:7 
Spinach {Per hsitsieve. |0 0 9/01 Ol] Reinettes -  - |0 8 0/012 0 
Sorrel, per half sieve - 18/0 16 Baking, per bushel - |0 2 6|0 4 6 
Pears, Dessert, per 3 sieve: 

The Onion Tribe. Chaumontelle 5 hor 6 OWO16 @ 
Onions, old, per bushel - {0 3 6/0 4 6 Swan’s Egg = - |0 4 6)0 6 0 
Leeks, per dozen bunches | 0 1 6|0 0 0 Baking, per half sieve 02 6/0 8 0 
Garlic, per pound - - |0 0 4/0 O 6/|| Quinces, per half sieve 020;0 26 
Shallots, per pound - - |0 0 6/|0 0 8|| Medlars, per halfsieve - |0 2 6/0 5 0 

. Swedish Cranberries, per 

Asparaginous Plants, gallon 2 = - 1020/1000 
Salads, &c. | Chestnuts, French, per peck} 0 6 0|010 0 
Asparagus, forced, per 100/09 6 0j|0 8 O/|| Pine-apples, per Ib. - 105 6);0 7 0 

Lettuce, per score : Grapes, per pound : 
Cos z é - |0 10/;0 1 6 Hot-house > - 10 3 6/0 5 0 
Cabbage - = - |0 06/010 Hamburgh - - 1013/01 6 
Endive, per score - |0 1 3/0 2 O|| Spanish - - - 10 0 8/0 0.10 
Celery, per bundle (12 to15)| 0 0 9/0 1 3] Oranges, per hundr - |0 6 0;}012 0 
Small Salads, per punnet 0 0 2!0 O 3]| Lemons, perhundred - |}0 6 0/014 0 
R Sweet Almonds, perlb. - |0 2 0/0 0 O 
Pot and Sweet Herbs. | Brazil Nuts, per bushel - | 012 0|016 0 
Tarragon, dried, per dozen | Spanish Nuts, per peck - |0 3 6/0 0 O 
bunches 5 e 0 3 0,0 0 Q' Barcelona, per peck -~1050!000 


Observations. — The weather having continued favourable (since the last 
report) to the growth of vegetables, our supplies have been good, but by 
no means so heavy or abundant as usual at this season ; in consequence of 
which the prices have been liberal, with a fair demand, and little refuse left 
in the market. We have had some quantity of fine early savoys, of excel- 
lent size and quality, which were, of course, planted out early in the summer, 
before the great heats prevailed. The coleworts are now (materially) what 
were watered in during August and September ; they are in excellent con- 
dition, and bring the growers a fair remunerating price for their labour in 
getting them out, at considerable expense, during the dry season. The late 
cauliflowers continue to be supplied in moderate quantities, and of good 
quality. Broccoli begins to come to hand, but not freely; the prices are 
nevertheless moderate. Of onions we have not a large supply; the crop is 
considered but moderate, and will, I hope, compensate the cultivator, by an 
increase in price and in the demand for them. Turnips have not improved 
so much as might have been wished (from the continued prevalence of 
dry weather during the earlier period of their growth), but the late fine 


London Hortieultural Society and Garden. 725 


mild and moist weather; the continuance of which may prove more favour- 
able to this most important article in our market. Carrots have been fur- 
nished very heavily, of good quality; the prices are moderate. Potatoes 
are not generally a good crop; but the market is at present well supplied 
coastwise; and the season for the Scotch arrivals being so near, no doubt 
they will be sent in sufficient quantities for all demands. It is not expected 
that they will vary much in price before the spring. Apples are in good 
supply, with the promise of any quantity the markets may require, if the 
present prices can be maintained, so as to pay the growers for the extra- 
expense of carriage from the more distant counties. Pears have not been 
so abundant, and have consequently brought better prices. — G. C. 


Art. VII. London Horticultural Society and Garden. 


SEPTEMBER 3. 1833.— Read. A letter, dated September 1., from the 
author of the Domestic Gardener's Manual, announcing some further ex- 
periments on the effect of water upon the melon plant. (See p. 591.) 

Exhibited. A new:seedling shallot, from Mr. James Minard. A col- 
lection of semidouble China asters, from Mr. W. Rolins of Lynn. A spe- 
cimen of Canna indica, raised from seeds thirty years old, from P. Grant, 
Esq. A collection of flowers of georginas, from Messrs. Chandler. A 
collection of apples, and flowers of the wheatear carnation, from Mr. Jo- 
seph Kirke, F,H.S. Black Hamburgh grapes, from Edmund Tatersall, 
Esq. A collection of flowers of georginas and of heartseases, from G. 
Glenny, F.H.S. A seedling Mimulus, with yellow flowers beautifully 
blotched with crimson, from Mr. George Smith. 

From the Garden of the Society. Flowers: Escallonia montevidénsis, 
Calandrinia grandiflora, Gilia tricolor and achilleefolza, Neméphila insignis, 
Leptosiphon androsaceus, georginas, and of many other plants. — Fruits. 
Apples: Grayenstein,- Spice, Longville’s kernel, Wormsley pippin, &c. 
Pears: Hessel, Beurré de Mons, Summer Franc réal, &c. Nectarine: El- 
ruge. Peaches: Noblesse, Royal George, George the Fourth, &c. Grapes: 
Grange’s Seedling white, and Black Hamburgh. 

September 17.— Exhibited. Cassia levigata and frondosa, and Convél- 
vulus sp. from Brazil, from Lady Oakes. Kirke’s scarlet admirable apple, 
Shepherd’s Newington, Yellow Ingestrie pippin, Grange, Royal pearmain, 
and Scarlet pearmain, from Mr. Joseph Kirke, F.H.S. Five sorts of 
apples, and flowers of 8 seedling georginas, from Mr. J. Nairn. Two 
sorts of pears, and Acklam’s russet apple, from Mr. G. Lindley. Flowers 
of 48 sorts of georginas and of 20 seedling kinds, from Mr. T. Hogg. 
Flowers of georginas, from Wm. Wells, Esq. The following articles from 
Mr. Stephen Hooker : — Pears: Poire d’ Ange of Braddick, and Williams’s 
Bon chrétien. Apples: Kerry pippin, Sugarloaf pippin, Dutch codlin, 
Pomme fameuse ou de la Neige, Franklin’s golden pippin, Duchesse d’Ol- 
denburg, Gravenstein, Yellow Ingestrie, Hawthornden, Royal pearmain, 
Yellow harvest, Red Astrachan, De Romaine, Kirke’s incomparable, and 
unnamed. Plants or flowers of Hydrangea quercifolia; Magnolia obo- 
vata grandiflora var.; and Lowea éerberifolia, grafted on Fraser’s Noisette 
rose [!]. : : ‘ ’ 

From the Garden of the Society. Flowers: Georginas, Swiss georginas, 
and China asters; Lupinus mutabilis and ornatus; Eucomis punctata, Stern- 
bérgia lutea, Calandrinia grandiflora; Gilia tricolor, achilleefolia, and capi- 
tata alba; French marigold, Salvia pseudo-coccinea, Stenactis specidsa, 
Calceolaria viscosissima; Alstreeméria acutifolia and psittacina; Diplo- 
pappus canéscens, Escallonia montevidénsis, Rose bengale blanche, odeur 
de thé, Rosa indica sanguinea Hibiscus. /iliiflorus, and /osa-sinensis. — 

343 


726 London Horticultural Society and Garden 


Fruits. Peaches: Chancellor, Late admirable. Pears: Reine des poires, 
a great bearer as a standard tree; Fondante d’automne, a new Belgic 
variety ; Duquesne d’été and Jean de Witte, both received originally from 
the collection of Wan Mons; Poire figue, or Pistolette, from a standard, 
a good bearer; Poire d’oeuf, suspected to be a swan’s egg, but proves 
very distinct; and Bossurgan Armudi, a Turkish or Persian pear, re- 
ceived through Dr. Diel of Nassau. Apples: Yellow Ingestrie, Holland- 
bury, Large white Calville, Nelson (not Kirke’s Lord Nelson), No core, 
Wormsley pippin, Drap d’or, Alexander, Hawthornden; Foxley, good 
for cider, and remarkable for its orange colour both externally and inter- 
nally; Calville rouge d’automne, Crimson queening, White summer Crof- 
ton; Nonesuch, the Celini figured, and distributed about London by 
plants sold at a guinea each, by Phillips, Vauxhall, is doubtless the same 
as this; Beauty of Kent and Flower of Kent (these two sorts are often con- 
fused with each other), Golden noble; Spice apple, Autumn pearmain, and 
Kirke’s Lord Nelson. The collection of fruits was not so good, in con- 
sequence of the wind having blown down many sorts that would other- 
wise have at this date been in season. 

October 1. — Exhibited. Double-blossomed peaches, from Edmund 
Johnstone, Esq. Monstrous peach, from Mr. Andrew Notmann. Seedling 
apples, queen pine-apple, and grapes, from H. J. Grant, Esq. Coeur du roi 
pippin, from James Russell, Esq. A collection of flowers of georginas, 
from James Veitch. Apples, Howers of georginas, and grapes, from Mr. 
Maher, jun., gardener to Lady East. A collection of flowers of georginas, 
from Messrs. Chandler. Chapman’s black Hamburgh grape, ripened in the 
open air, having been a little advanced in the spring artificially, from John 
Allautt, Esq. Collections of flowers of georginas, from Messrs. Glenny, 
Hopwood, Dennis, and Hoge. 

From the Garden of the Society. Fruit. Apples: White russet, Calville 
rouge d’automne; Drap d’or, a French apple, little known in this country,, 
but is a very handsome fruit, a great bearer, and doubtless good for kitchen 
use; Downton, Autumn pearmain, Scarlet pearmain, Golden reinette, Hol- 
landbury, Beauty of Kent, Cole, Campusnethan pippin, Yellow Ingestrie, 
Foxley, Golden noble, Alexander ; Pomme de Neige, its flesh is of asnow 
white; Wormsley pippin, a sort frequently mentioned as possessing ex- 
cellent qualities; Pitmaston russet nonpareil, Waltham Abbey seedling, 
Hawthornden; Brabant bellefleur, a very excellent kitchen apple; Rib- 
ston pippin, and Hormead pearmain; Hoary morning, a good bearer; 
White paradise, Royal russet, Margil, Court of Wick, Crimson queen- 
ing, Beauty of Wilts, Gloria mundi; Alfreston, from a tree grown on the 
French paradise stock ; and king of the pippins. Pears: Belle et bonne, 
John Monteith, and Beurré de Capiaumont; Aston town, a good stand- 
ard pear; Seckler, Moor-fowl egg; Fondante Van Mons, a very good 
pear, it generally grows much larger; Quaker, Henry Quatre; and Gan- 
sel’s bergamot from a wall.— Flowers: Eucomis punctata, Zinnia éle- 
gans, Amaryllis Belladonna, Fiachsia globdsa, Técoma capénsis, Nerine 
undulata, French marigolds, Gloridsa supérba, Eschschdltzia sp. from 
Mr. Douglas; Lupinus ornatus and mutabilis; Rosa indica fragrans, indica 
sanguinea, indica cérnua, and indica Pallayiciné; Salvia Graham, pseudo- 
coccinea, cardinalis, angustifolia, and spléndens ; Stenactis specidsa, Madia 
élegans, Pentstemon roseus, and Eulophia macrostachya; Georginas 
at the classes, tall, anemone-flowered, seedling anemone-flowered, and 

wiss.. 

October 15.— Exhibited. A specimen of bamboo, presented by Cap- 
tain. Joseph Andrews, Islington. A new kind of Canada gourd, and a 
seedling georgina, from Mr. Thresher of Hampton. A new variety of half- 
tall double yellow-flowered georgina, from Mr. Vaux, at Mrs. Eades’s, 


London Horticultural Society and Garden. 12% 


Upper Tooting. New yellow dwarf georgina, from Mr. C. Brown, A 
seedling pine-apple, from Mr. Robert Buck. Kirke’s scarlet admirable 
apple, from L. Haslope, Esq. Grapes from an open wall, from Mr. Whitley 
of Camberwell. A pomegranate from a north-west wall, from Mrs. Mar- 
ryatt. 

Sane the Garden of the Society. Flowers: Amaryllis Belladénna, Lu- 
pinus mutdabilis and ornatus, Clématis hedysarifolia, DiplopAppus canés- 
cens, and asters.—Fruit. With the exception of the Marie Louise pear, and 
some of the Doyenné blanc, all the fruit are from standard trees. Pears: 
Doyenné blanc, Seckle; Marie Louise, from a wall; Comte de Lamy, 
a sort little known, but one which is very excellent; Figue de Naples, 
Poire Neill, Beurré de Capiaumont, Henri Quatre, Gendeseim, Alpha; 
Duchesse d’ Angouleme, from a standard; Duchesse d’ Angouleme, from an 
open dwarf grown on a hawthorn stock. Apples: Drap d’or, Barce- 
lona pearmain; Gloria mundi, which grows, under ordinary treatment, to 
the weight of a pound and a half; Downton, a very abundant bearer ; 
Citron des Carmes Golden reinette; Blenheim pippin, rather smaller than 
usual, owing to the tree’s bearing very abundantly in this dry summer; 
this sort is, when young, a shy bearer, but proves a good bearer when the 
tree gets older; Beauty of Kent, Scarlet Crofton; Court of Wick, very 
good; Cambusnethan pippin, Foxley, Alexander, Pomme de Neige, 
Wormsley pippin; Pomme violette, Waltham Abbey seedling, Burn’s seed- 
ling, Ribston pippim, Hormead pearmain, Hoary morning, King of the 
pippins, Royal russet, and Fearn’s pippin. Plums: Coe’s late red, a sort 
valuable for its lateness. It prolongs the season of plums to a later period 
than any other. The Imperatrice hangs late, but this exceeds it by a 
month, The fruit shown were off a standard tree. 

November 5.— Read. Observations and discoveries connected with the 
Culture of Melons; by the author of the Domestic Gardener's Manual. 
Remarks on the ripening of the Seeds of the Pine-apple ; by Mr. R. Buck. 
Remarks on the growth of a peculiar kind of Pine, resembling the Pin- 
aster; by Mr. W. B. Booth. 

Exhibited. Walnuts, from Mr. Biddulph. Seedling chrysanthemums, 
from Mr. Wheeler. Queen pine-apple from a sucker, from Mr. G, White. 
Black and white Hamburgh, grizzly Frontignac, large cluster, and parsley- 
leaved kinds of grape, from P.D. Cooke, Esq. Bedfordshire foundling 
apples, from Mr. T. Levitt, Wandsworth. Glout morceau pears, from 
John Ryley, Esq. Flowers of georginas, from Messrs. Chandler. Chap- 
man’s black Hamburgh grape, from John Allnutt, Esq. /Zimulus Smithz, 
from Mr. Smith, Islington. Seedling pine-apple, from Mr. R. Buck. 

From the Garden of the Society. Flowers: Chinese chrysanthemums, 
early blush, blush ranunculus-flowered, tasseled yellow, purple changeable 
white, Park’s small yellow, quilled white, superb clustered yellow, early 
crimson, sulphur yellow, small yellow Spanish brown, buff or pink, curled 
lilac, changeable pale buff, curled blush, tasseled lilac, and small brown- 
flowered. The last variety has been lately imported from China, and pre- 
sented to the Society, by L. Weltjie, Esq., of Hammersmith, as new. Mr. 
Reeves, who has seen it in the Chinese flower-markets, says that it is the 
dwarfest of all the varieties; and, although the flower is small, the plant is so 
thickly covered with them, that there is scarcely a leaf to be seen. Ac- 
cording to Mr. Reeves, it originally came from Japan to China. — Fruit. 
Apples: Sykehouse russet, Bedfordshire foundling, Cornish aromatic ; 
Vale Mascal pearmain, an abundant bearer; Kilkenny pearmain, Waltham 
Abbey seedling, Franklin’s golden pippin, Hughes’s golden pippin, Pear- 
son’s plate, White russet, Golden russet nonpareil, Newtown Spitzemberg, 
King of the pippins, and Royal russet; Sam Young, a very good table 
apple; Downton, Golden reinette, Hormead pearmain: Golden pippin, 
the true old sort; the tree which produced these was reimported from 


3A 4 


728 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — Bedfordshire, 


America into the collection of the Society, under the name of English 
golden pippin; Pomme violette, White paradise, Court of Wick, Martin 
nonpareil; Burn’s seedling, a very handsome apple, and of good quality for 
its size ; Citron des Carmes, Margil, Padley’s pippin, Yellow bellefleur, 
Blenheim pippin, Fearn’s pippin, Beauty of Kent; White nonpareil, a 
very good early nonpareil; Monstrous pippin, Barcelona pearmain, Baxter’s 
pearmain, Winter queening, and Petworth seedling. Pears: Beurré Diel, 
from standards; Chaumontelle, from quenouille training ; Duchesse d’ An- 
gouléme, and the same off a tree on a hawthorn stock; Passe-Colmar; 
Forelle, a vigorous tree as a standard, and bears well; Bezi de la Motte, 
Bezi de Caissoy ; Bezi d’ Henri, a stewing pear, and a very abundant bearer 
as a standard; Bergamotte Cadet, Napoleon, Urbaniste; Bon Chrétien 
Turc and Bequéne musqué, both stewing pears; Nelis d’Hiver, one of 
he very best pears, ripened on a wall, and is earlier than usual ; it will also 
succeed as a standard. Of the pears, many sorts have come earlier to 
maturity than usual, probably in consequence of the dry season; for 
instance, Passe-Colmar, Beurré Diel, Forelle, Nelis d’ Hiver, &c. 


Art. VIII. Notices of Provincial Horticultural Societies for 1833. 


We: find, from the increase in the number of newspapers sent us during 
the past year, as well as from information procured during our late tour, 
that provincial botanical and horticultural societies are steadily increasing 
throughout the country. We are exceedingly glad of this; because these 
societies will diffuse generally a taste for one of the most agreeable and 
humanising of pursuits, spread improved varieties of culinary vegetables 
and fruits, and bring into general culture many of the beautiful new hardy 
plants and shrubs which have been lately introduced from North America 
and other parts of the world. There is yet another good which will result 
from the meetings of these societies; and that is, the bringing into personal 
communication many individuals, gardeners and others, who, but for 
assemblages of this sort, might have for ever remained unknown to one 
another. In general, whatever has a tendency to bring men together, so 
as to enable them to think and act in masses, is favourable to human 
improvement. The farmer confined to his farm, and the gardener within 
the walls of his garden, could never have any influence on society, either 
in the way of disseminating agricultural or horticultural improvement ; 
or in ameliorating the condition or manners of the two classes; but let 
them meet together two or three times a year, no matter for what purpose, 
and first thought, and afterwards action, will be the result. In cooperation 
with these horticultural meetings, it is gratifying to observe the universal 
circulation of the penny periodicals. Without saying any thing as to the 
direct value of the matter contained in these publications, it is sufficient 
for us that their tendency is to create a taste for reading: a taste which 
no less an authority than Sir John Herschel has observed is, of all others, 
the best “ which can possibly be imagined for a hard-working countryman 
after his daily toil, or in its intervals.’ (See the Penny Magazine for 
Sept. 28. 1833.) An idea so gratifying has not been presented to us 
since we commenced the Gardener’s Magazine. 

We are happy to find that an increased attention is paid generally to 
the gardens of cottagers. The emulation excited by the prizes given to 
this class can hardly fail in producing the happiest results. We have 
already mentioned (Vol. VIII. p. 626.) the practice of giving silver spoons, 
clocks, &c., instead of medals, as one which we highly approved of; but 
we cannot say so much in favour of a practice which we see has been 
adopted in some places ; viz., that of giving as prizes, shoes, coats, and other 


Berkshire, Buckinghamshire, Cambridgeshire. 729 


articles of clothing. The spoons, clocks, &c., are articles of luxury, which 
may descend, like heir-looms, from father to son, and may be possessed by 
any individual without his feeling any degradation in the idea, that they 
have been given to him. He knows that even dukes and princes are 
proud of the prize cups which they have won for horseracing, fine cattle, 
&c., and he looks upon his spoons in the same light. Articles of clothing 
however, convey quite a different feeling. The poor man knows that no 
one would presume to offer them to men of either rank or wealth, and, 
instead of signs of triumph, they become badges of poverty and degra- 
dation. Prizes of books, especially to young gardeners, we cannot but 
highly approve of; but, to give them the character of a prize, they 
ought to be handsomely bound, and to have some distinctive mark 
impressed cn the back above the name; sueh as the words JPri3e Golume, 
or some other device. We are induced to mention this here, from having 
lately seen some volumes, in boards, given as prizes, without any thing 
written on them to indicate that they were such. 

The increase of societies has multiplied the accounts of their exhibitions 
to such an extent, that we can no longer find room for even such short 
notices of them as we have hitherto been accustomed to give. We there- 
fore intend, in future, to confine ourselves to such a summary of the 
whole, at the end of each year, as that now submitted; but, in order that 
the local newspapers sent us with the accounts of the meetings, &c., may 
not be lost to the gardening public, we shall file them as received, and 
bind them up, at the end of each year, in the order in which the shows are 
inserted in this Magazine, and prepare a manuscript index to the whole. 
In this state the volume will lie at the office of the Gardener’s Magazine, 
at Bayswater, for the inspection of any one who may like to call there for 
that purpose. 


ENGLAND. 


BEDFORDSHIRE. — Bedfordshire Horticultural Society. July 26. The 
show of flowers was splendid, and the fruits were very fine and well 
flavoured. The vegetables, particularly those grown by cottagers, called 
forth the approbation of all present. A variety of prizes were distributed 
for carnations and other flowers; and for various kinds of fruits. Of the 
gooseberries, the heaviest red weighed 21 dwts. 18 grs.; the heaviest 
yellow, 20 dwts. 18 grs.; the heaviest green, 15 dwts. lgr.; the heaviest 
white, 15 dwts. 20grs. Of the currants, the best pound of red contained 
31 bunches; the best pound of white, 29 bunches; the best pound of 
champagne, 60 bunches; and the best half-pound of black, 156 berries. 
Of the raspberries, the best half-pound contained 68 berries. The prin- 
cipal prizes for fruit were gained by Mr. Tregenza, Mr. Furze, and Mr. 
Pullen. (Northampton Mercury, Aug. 3.) q 

Berxsuire.— Wallingford Royal Berkshire Horticultural Society. July 23. 
The green-house plants and georginas of W. Stephens, Esq., were greatiy 
admired, as were the pansies of Mr. John Allnutt, and the picotees and car- 
nations of Mr. Wilmer, Mr. R. Coster, and Mr. Alloway: among those shown 
by the latter was a very beautiful seedling purple flake. The productions 
of the cottagers appear to be greatly improved. (Berkshire Chronicle.) 

BucKINGHAMSHIRE. — Buckingham Horticultural and Florists’ Society. 
July 30. Carnations, picotees, and georginas were the flowers shown, 
and some very fine specimens were exhibited. Some apples were shown, 
of the growth of the preceding year, in excellent preservation. 

t ; CAMBRIDGESHIRE. — The Cambridgeshire Horticultural Society. April 24. 
The show of flowers (particularly of auriculas and polyanthuses) was 
superb; and far exceeded any former exhibition. Prizes were given for 
pears and strawberries, and the usual spring flowers and vegetables: 
among the latter was a dish of 10 forced potatoes, weighing 1 lb., planted 
in 1833, and grown by Mr. Giddings of Hemingford. Regulations of 


730 Provincial Horticultural Societies :— 


cottagers’ prizes were read; and it was stated that the gardens of those 
who contend for prizes must not be more than 15 poles in extent, nor 
more than 12 miles from Canibridge. It was also determined that those 
cottagers who shall have gained three prizes within the year, shall dine at 
the Society’s expense after the next September meeting. (Cambridge 
Chronicle, April 26.) 

June 12. The weather has been most singularly unfavourable for 
flowers: there were but few ranunculuses, and the pinks were not suffi- 
ciently forward. The show of fruit also was small; but the green-house 
plants made ample compensation for the deficiencies in other respects. 
Although several cottagers’ prizes were offered, it was a matter of surprise 
and regret that there were no competitors. (Jdid., June 14.) 

July 17. This show was, upon the whole, good. The carnations and 
picotees were splendid. The fruit also was good, though not great in 
point of quantity. Prizes were distributed for fruit, among which we 
noticed one for May duke cherries, 57 to the pound, gained by Mr. J. 
Newman; one for gooseberries, 21 to the pound, Mr. Byford; for red 
currants, 29 bunches to the pound, Mr. Giddings; and white currants, 26 
bunches to the pound, Mr. Dall. Prizes were also given for carnations, 
georginas, &e. (Lbid., July 19.) 

Sept. 11. Considering the unfavourable weather, the quality of the fruit 
shown was very good. In the course of the evening the prizes were dis- 
tributed, consisting of two silver medals, and upwards of 72/. in money. 
The treasurer announced that Lord and Lady Hardwicke had forwarded 
a donation of 5/. to the cottagers’ fund; a branch of the Society which, 
it is gratifying to know, is in a very prosperous condition, the principal 
complaint being that there are not sufficient applicants. Ten cottagers’ 
prizes were given. (Jdid., Sept. 13.) : 

Cambridge Florists’ Society. — April 29. The show consisted of auriculas, 
the prize for the best of which (Colonel Taylor) was gained by Mr. 
Headley ; and polyanthuses, the best of which (Alexander) was shown by 
Mr. Finch. (Jéid, May 3.) 

July 18. For carnations and picotees. Some of the flowers were good, 
and were much admired. (Idid.) 

Sept. 10. This show was principally for georginas, and the evening 
exhibition attracted most attention. The decorations were most taste- 
fully arranged, and produced a pleasing effect On entering the room, 
three well-executed arches of evergreens,’ thickly studded with georginas, 
extended from side to side. On the right, against the wall, appeared, 
in large characters of the same materials, “ The Cambridge Florists’ 
‘Society,’ with an anchor, star, &c. At the upper end, a magnificent 
crown with W. and A. on either side, beamed resplendently with va- 
riegated lamps and flowers, whilst the tables down the centre of the room 
were covered with a profusion of the choicest blooms; upwards of 9000 
of which were consumed in the general display and embellishments. The 
principal prize was gained by the Rev. A. Fitch, for Widnall’s Perfection. 
Above 80 other prizes were distributed. (Jdid.) 

CursHirE. — Stockport Floral and Horticultural Society. May 22. This 
exhibition comprised a most brilliant collection of tulips, which were very 
tastefully and effectively displayed on several stages. The green-house 
plants and shrubs were extremely splendid, choice, and rare, and attracted 
universal admiration. The specimens of fruits and vegetables were also 
allowed to be particularly fine. Among the prizes awarded to cottagers, 
we cannot omit to notice one to Wm. Grimes, residing in Lead Yard, with 
a garden in Haw Fields. This man was awarded 2s. 6d. extra, In_conse- 
quence of the disadvantage he is under, being a jenny-spinner, with one 
hand, and having a large family. (Stockport Advertiser, May 24.) 

CUMBERLAND. — Whitehaven Horticultural Society. May 3. 'The auri- 
culas were good, as were the polyanthuses. ‘The hyacinths were poor, 


Cheshire, Cumberland, Devonshire. 731 


which we attribute to the rigour of the season. The pelargoniums were 
few in number, and, though good in their kinds, \were not in maturity of 
flower. The bouquets were likewise few in number; but we cannot refrain 
from noticing the great taste displayed in the arrangement of the two which 
obtained prizes; each of these consisted of a light basket of wet moss, 
in which was disposed every variety of beautiful or fragrant flowers which 
the season could furnish. Among the rare native plants we observed 
nothing particular; nor were any very remarkable green-house plants ex- 
hibited A fine plant of Sarracenia purpurea was shown by Mr. Elliot. 
Mr. Pitt had the best culinary vegetables. Apples and pears, kept from 
last year, were exhibited in great perfection. (Whitehaven Herald, May 7.) 

August 9. Carnations were the principal flowers exhibited, and the 
greatest number of prizes were gained by the Messrs. Gird. The fruit 
seems, by the weight stated, to have been smaller than at some other 
places. The largest gooseberry (Crown Bob) weighed only 15dwts., and 
it took 40 bunches of the largest red currants exhibited to weigh a pound. 
(Cumberland Packet, August 20.) 

Devonsuire. — Devon and Exeter Botanical and Horticultural Society. 
May 30. A great number of plants were sent by the noblemen and 
gentlemen in the vicinity, besides those exhibited for prizes. Among those 
sent by Mrs. Johnes were two seedling amaryllises, and a seedling cactus : 
Mr. Gifford sent some fine Brompton and German stocks, with numerous 
fine green-house plants. A variety of beautiful ericas and pelargoniums 
were sent from Mr. Granger’s. From the conservatory of the Bishop of 
Exeter there was a splendid Erythrina Crista-galli, in full flower: and a 
beautiful specimen of the delicate Plumbago capénsis. Mr. Bickford of 
Bickington sent various specimens of curious plants raised from seed sent 
to him from Van Diemen’s Land. The exhibition was, however, indebted 
to the neighbouring nurserymen for the greater portion of its splendour. 
Messrs. Lucombe, Pince, and Co. sent many very fine and valuable 
specimens of green-house and stove plants. Of new herbaceous calceo- 
larias they had a superb group, consisting of 26 distinct and choice sorts, 
several of the best being seedlings of their own raising. Their specimens 
of the Cactus tribe were magnificent, amongst which were two very fine 
plants of the Cereus flagelliformis, grafted and trained in a very graceful 
manner. ‘Their collection of ericas was of the richest and chastest descrip- 
tion; and they had also a new yellow rose, having the combined odour of 
the &. odorata and the Magnoiza, and of the most delicious perfume. We 
understand that this is the first time of their exhibiting it, and, being a free 
and perfectly hardy flower, it promises to be a very great acquisition to our 
collections. Messrs. L. and Co. had also a very fine collection of Scotch 
roses, of which a most distinguished one was the snowball; and some very 
fine Brabant azaleas and pelargoniums, many of the latter being seedlings. 
They had also 300 varieties of ranunculuses. Mr. James Veitch of 
Killerton exhibited many fine plants, and among them a yellow [?] 
Scotch climbing rose, which will grow 20ft. in a year. Messrs. G. Dymond 
and Co. displayed a fine collection of pelargoniums, together with many 
other fine plants. The fruit was neither so large nor so numerous as it 
has been. The vegetables looked much better: potatoes were in abun- 
dance, and looked well; the asparagus was remarkably fine, and a bunch, 
from the garden of Sir Lawrence Palk, exceeded any thing of the kind we 
had before witnessed. The green peas also showed what Devonshire is 
capable of, if encouragement be but given; and the cauliflowers, Cornish 
broccoli, cabbages, French beans, turnips, carrots, spinach, lettuce, onions, 
rhubarb, artichokes, cucumbers, &c., far exceeded any thing we have 
hitherto been in the habit of seeing in Exeter at this time of the year, 
There was also a fine dish of mushrooms. (Hzwxeter Flying Post, June 6.) 

Devon and Exeter Floricultural Society. May 1. The room presented 
a most brilliant and beautiful appearance, the neighbouring gentry and 


732 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


nurserymen having contributed a number of splendid plants for its decora- 
tion. The prizes were for auriculas and polyanthuses. (Jdid., May 2.) 

The Royal Devon and Cornwall Botanical and Horticultural Society, 
— July 25. There was a most splendid show of flowers, flowering plants. 
fruit, and vegetables. Among the fruit, Mr. Pontey displayed not less than 
100 different sorts of gooseberries; and among the vegetables was Groom’s 
new pea, grown by J. Jarman, a cottager. A great number of prizes were 
distributed, and the funds of the Society were declared to be in a most 
flourishing state: they having now a gross income of 274/. 5s. 6d. Above 
thirty cottagers’ prizes were distributed, several of which were gained by 
J. Jarman. (Plymouth Journal, Aug. 1.) 

North Devon Horticultural Society.—Sept. 5. The room was most beau- 
tifully decorated with flowers arranged in various forms, and prizes were 
given for fruit, vegetables, and flowers. Above fifty cottagers’ prizes were 
distributed. Nearly all the noblemen and gentlemen in the neighbourhood 
were competitors, and the articles exhibited were of the first description. 
The nurserymen’s prizes were shown in a separate room; and among them 
were some very fine hollyhocks and French marigolds, from the nursery 
of Mr. Miller of Bristol. (County and North Devon Advertiser, Sept. 6.) 

Taunton and West Somerset Horticultural Exhibition. May 22. The 
arrangements of the room were tastefully executed, and the attractions of 
the specimens were as powerful as they were various and beautiful. A 
Peonia Moitan, from Sir T. Lethbridge’s,’claimed high admiration. Some 
uncommonly large and brightly coloured ranunculuses, feom the garden at 
Fairwater House, were also admired, and several rich specimens of the 
same flower, from the grounds at West Monkton House, attracted notice. 
The greatest novelties in the exhibition were the superb new double Dutch 
anemones, exhibited by Messrs. Lucombe, Pince, and Co., being the first 
season of their flowering in England: they certainly. surpassed in size, 
brilliance, and variety of colour, every thing hitherto produced in this way. 
They consisted of 101 distinct named varieties ; and it may be said that 
every possible hue was here blended. The first prize was most justly 
awarded to these splendid flowers. Mr. J. Young had the first prize for 
picked specimens of about twenty very fine varieties of Azalea, which 
were greatly admired; and also the first prize for nurserymen’s tulips, 
ranunculuses, double anemones, green-house bulbs, and other products. 
Some handsome specimens of Azalea were also exhibited by Lucombe and 
Co., and a specimen of their new hardy Rhododéndron hybridum var. 
speciosissimum. Mr. J. Young’s collections of new herbaceous calceo- 
larias were quite novel and very interesting. (Taunton Courier, May 25.) 

July 3. Tuis exhibition was one of great interest, from the uncom- 
monly beautiful specimens of fruits, flowers, shrubs, and vegetables it 
presented. There were only four cottagers’ prizes distributed; and as 
they were all gained by one individual, Betty Fry, we will lend our aid in 
helping to immortalise her name. (Jdid., July 10.) 

August 28. Grapes, pines, melons, peaches, apricots, plums, nectarines, 
and mulberries, profusely decorated the tables. The shrubs and flowers 
displayed on the occasion were of great beauty and elegant variety; and 
the culinary vegetables were of great size. After the exhibition closed, a 
sale of the prize fruit and vegetables took place, and most of the articles 
met ready purchasers. A great number of prizes were distributed, among 
which were ten to cottagers, Betty Fry being again several times successful. 
The plants shown by nurserymen were very splendid. (Jbid., Sept. 4.) 

Duruam. — South Durham and Cleveland Horticultural Society. April 23. 
This Society, which has been only recently established, is, we are happy to 
learn, in the most flourishing condition. Fruit, flowers, and vegetables 
were exhibited, and a great number of prizes were distributed. (Durham 
Advertiser, April 26.) 

May 21. There was a fine display of exotics and green-house plants, 


Durham, Essex, Gloucestershire. 733 


but the gardeners seemed more especially to excel in pelargoniums, for we 
have rarely seen such a healthy lot of plants so laden with showy and 
perfect flowers. The grapes, apples, strawberries, &c., taking prizes,’ were 
handed about amongst the ladies and gentlemen present, and pronounced 
to be in full perfection. There wasalso a large show of broccoli, cabbages, 
potatoes, cucumbers, peas, rhubarb, &c. Of the latter article there! was 
a fine dish of the giant kind, two stalks of which weighed 2 lbs. 14 02. 
There were no prizes for cottagers. (Dublin Advertiser, May 24.) 

Essex. — Chelmsford Florists’ Society. The first prize for carnations 
(Bijou de Claremont, and seven others) was gained by Mr. Pearson. Of 
the picotees, Mr. Wm. Bird won the first prize, with Martin’s Queen Ade- 
laide, Woollard’s Miss Bacon, and four others. Prizes were also distri- 
buted for georginas, and different kinds of fruit and vegetables. (Essex 
Herald, Suly 14.) 

GLoucEsTERSHIRE. — Bristol and Clifton Horticultural Society. May 21. 
A great number of beautiful plants and flowers were exhibited ; among 
which, a very beautiful calceolaria, C. péndula, shown by Mr. Miller, was 
very much admired. Some fine baskets of flowers were exhibited by Mr. 
Taunton, including about twenty species of roses, all of which had 
bloomed in’ the open air. Numerous prizes were distributed. (Bristol 
Mercury, May 25.) 

June 25. The strawberries, cherries, grapes, nectarines, and melons 
were of surpassing beauty and excellence; we also noticed some superb 
lemons, and the culinary vegetables were very fine. The show of plants and 
flowers has been, perhaps, surpassed on former occasions. The receipts 
of the day exceeded any sum that had ever been collected on any former 
occasion: it was also very satisfactory to find that, in consequence of 
arrangements made by the committee, every contributor received back 
his own plants and other articles exhibited, without confusion or plunder. 
There were a great many competitors for the cottagers’ prizes. The gen- 
tlemen in the neighbourhood contributed liberally in sending flowers and 
flowering plants, as did Messrs. Maule and Lee, and Mr. Miller. (Bristol 
Gazette, June 27.) 

Cheltenham Horticultural and Floral Society. — April 23. This exhibi- 
tion, in the flowers, fruits, and plants of the season, was decidedly the best 
we have yet seen. The hyacinths, polyanthuses, roses, pinks, and all the 
floral variety of spring, were remarkably beautiful ; while the heaths were 
of peculiar beauty and delicacy. Specimens of the cactus tribe and other 
plants obtained the admiration of all present. The specimens of fruit, 
particularly pines, strawberries, currants, and dessert apples (that appeared 
as if they had been just plucked from the trees), and the show of vegetables, 
should not pass without commendation. The auriculas, polyanthuses, and 
hyacinths were also remarkably fine. (Cheltenham Chronicle, April 25.) 

May 22. The display of flowers, particularly of tulips and anemones, 
could not, we think, have been surpassed in any part of the kingdom. The 
stove and green-house plants were also remarkably fine; in fact, the excel- 
lence naturally produced by a spirit of emulation was conspicuous on every 
stand in the room. Numerous prizes were distributed, but none were given 
to cottagers. (Jbid., May 23.) 

June 23. The specimens were probably not so numerous as at former 
exhibitions, yet ample amends were made by their superior quality, and in the 
first and second classes conferred upon the exhibitors the highest credit. 
There was a beautiful collection of pinks and roses; many choice and rare ex- 
otics were arranged with the stove and green-house plants; there was also a 
good collection of annuals, among which were some very handsome balsams, 
and several magnificent cockscombs. Among the fruits, the attention 
and admiration of the numerous assemblage of the beaw monde were pecu- 
liarly attracted by the display of grapes, and by two plates of strawberries 
(from the gardens of Henry Norwood Trye, Esq., of Leckhampton Court, 


734 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


and of Mr. T. French), some of which measured 6 in. in circumference : 
several plates of ripe currants and raspberries were exhibited, some of 
which deservedly gained extra prizes. The vegetables surpassed any we 
remember to have seen at former shows; a convincing proof that societies 
of this nature tend to improve the culture and quality of these necessary 
productions, by exciting a spirit of emulation among the cultivators. 
There were three cottagers’ prizes. (Cheltenham Journal, July 1.) 

July 23. Carnations, picotees, and georginas were the principal articles 
exhibited. (Ivid., July 25.) 

Sept. 17. This was the best show of the season. The display of fruit 
was beyond all praise, and we question whether finer pines, melons, grapes, 
peaches, nectarines, plums, apples, and pears have been exhibited by any 
similar society in the kingdom. The stove and green-house plants and 
annuals were also remarkably fine. Nearly 2000 specimens were exhibited, 
and numerous prizes were awarded. (Cheltenham Chronicle, Sept. 19.) 

HEREFORDSHIRE. — Hereford Horticultural Society. April 30. Many 
beautiful seedling auriculas and polyanthuses, flowers of Wistaria Conse- 
quana, and a plant in pot of Magnolia conspicua, in fragrant bloom, graced 
the florists’ department, in addition to the usual supply of well-known 
prize flowers of auricula, polyanthus, hyacinth, pansy, &c. In végetables, a 
subscriber exhibited an ingenious method of raising early peas, by sowing them 
ina little soil between tiles, and keeping them under glass till the weather 
admits of their being transplanted into the open ground, which is done with 
facility : the plants shown were in a growing state, 18 in. high, supported 
by sticks, fully exemplifying the plan, which the subscriber stated he had 
practised some years, with invariable success. A subscriber also exhibited 
in a pot a strong plant of O’xalis crenata, about a foot high. The apples 
were beyond all praise; the white broccoli was the largest and best ever 
exhibited here, particularly the brace to which the first prize was awarded, 
being about 9 in. in diameter, and in the nicest epicurean state. The other 
broccoli were excellent, as were also the cucumbers, cabbage, potatoes, 
French beans, rhubarb, sea-kale, lettuces, &e. Numerous prizes were dis- 
tributed for auriculas, polyanthuses, hyacinths, &c., but we did not observe 
any cottagers’ prizes. (Hereford Journal, May 8.) 

May 21. The tulips were excellent, and some of them, although asto- 
nishinely large, were finely broken. Among the other classes appeared a full 
supply of stove, green-house plants, &c., ericas, Céreus Jenkinsoni, calceola~ 
rias, seedling pelargoniums, Vieusseuxia glaucopis, new white giant stock, 
AH’sculus rosea, new scarlet thorn, &c. &c.; and, although last, not least, 
but of tremendous size, Dally’s new giant rhubarb. Among the prizes for 
tulips, we observed most frequently the names of R. J. Powell, Esq., and 
Mr. P. Baylis. (JZdid., May 29.) ; 

June 25. Several very beautiful varieties of Caleeolaria, Schizanthus, 
&c., were exhibited. That universal favourite and queen of flowers, the 
rose, appeared in its wonted splendour, fragrance, and quantity ; and, among 
the numerous specimens of pinks, many of the choicest description were 
shown; but, of ranunculuses, only two blooms were sent in, and those of 
an inferior kind; indeed, the ranunculuses failed generally throughout the 
kingdom this season, which was the case also two years ago. ‘The prize 
pine-apple was a fine specimen of the Providence variety. The melons 
were high-flavoured, though not numerous. The strawberries were abun- 
dant. The vegetable department was not fully supplied; but premiums 
were only offered for cauliflowers, at this exhibition. (Jdid., July 3.) 

Sept. 24. The grand stand was decorated with a beautiful display of 
ereen-house and other plants. The stage for fruit and vegetables was 
remarkable for the variety and excellence of the apples and pears; of the 
former 100 plates of different kinds, comprising culinary and dessert fruits ; 
and about 30 plates of the latter, all of the finest sorts, were exhibited, 


Flerefordshire, Huntingdonshire, Kent, Lancashire. 735 


There were also remarkably fine grapes, peaches, nectarines, China guava, 
&e. &c. The vegetables comprised onions, celery, carrots, beet, and 
broccoli. The peaches and nectarines were a short supply, but fine speci- 
mens. The georginas and new German asters produced such a display 
as was never before witnessed here, covering the pyramidal stand, except 
a space at the top, occupied by half a dozen potted plants. Among the 
georginas many fine seedlings were observed, and about fifty spotted and 
striped, two of which were of a splendid crimson colour, each petal being 
tipped with pure white, the effect of which it is scarcely possible to cone - 
ceive without witnessing it. There was a plate of fruit of Psidium Cattlei- 
dnum, a native of China, which deserves, and, when more disseminated, 
will obtain, a place at the dessert. (Hereford Journal, Sept. 25. and Oct. 2.) 

Ross Horticultural Society. — May 22. The supply of tulips was some- 
what scanty, but some fine specimens were exhibited. The first prize for 
tulips was gained by Polyphemus, shown by Mr. W. C. Cocks. The prizes 
for heaths were all gained by one lady, Miss Trusted. (Ibid., May 29.) 

June 19. The grand stand never displayed a richer galaxy of foliage and 
bloom, and the long stage was amply covered with roses, pinks, &c., of the 
finest qualities. The specimens in strawberries were excellent, and those 
which obtained the first prize, grown by Mr. James Rudge of Weston, were 
astonishingly large, and perfectly ripe: the plate contained three dozen 
berries, and the fruit weighed upwards of 3 lbs., and several of the berries 
exceeded 13 oz. in weight. The specimens ticketed and entered amounted 
to 607. (Zéid., June 26.) 

HunTIneponsuire. — Huntingdon Horticultural Society. May 1. Prizes 
were distributed for auriculas, polyanthuses, and hyacinths; also for fruit 
and vegetables. The heaviest red gooseberry, the roaring lion, weighed 
20 dwts. lgr.; the heaviest yellow, Piggott’s leader, 14. dwts. 17 grs.; 
green, troubler, 14 dwts. 2grs.: white, eagle, 15dwts. 10ers. Of the 
white and red currants, the finest were 26 bunches to the pound. (Cam- 
bridge Chronicle, May 3.) 

Kent. — Tunbridge Wells Horticultural Society.—Sept. 26. The dispray 
of fruits, flowers, and vegetables was splendid. Of the flowers, those 
which attracted most attention were the georginas, of which there was a 
most brilliant show ; and the very beautiful stove and green-house plants 
sent by Mr. Joseph Wells, gardener to William Wells, Esq., of Redleaf. 
Among these were some beautiful specimens of calceolarias and schizan- 
thus ; also some very fine treviranas, the flowers of which were remarkably 
large; and a superb specimen of Brunsvigia Josephine. Mr. Gilbert of 
Frant had eighty sorts of dwarf cockscombs, with a variety of seedling 
georginas, &c.; and Mr. Cameron exhibited 250 sorts of georginas. Many 
other plants well worthy of notice were shown, (Brighton Gazette, Oct. 3.) 

Lancasuire. — Lancaster Pink and Ranunculus Society. June 25. The 
display of pinks was greater and better than might have been expected; 
and the collection of roses, among which was a fine specimen of the double 
yellow rose, was numerous and fine. The ranunculuses were few and poor; 
but these plants have flowered most shyly this year, in almost every garden 
in our neighbourhood; while the few flowers that came to perfection have 
been over some time, and others were destroyed by the heavy and frequent 
showers. The erythrina, to which the second prize for green-house plants 
was awarded, was aremarkably fine and striking plant, in full flower. Several 
small bouquets, disposed in separate glasses, upon the table at the end of 
the room, were much admired; as was also a China bowl, filled with a 
variety of Scotch roses. There were a few melons, and several plates of 
erapes; and fine strawberries, principally Keen’s seedling, so justly a 
favourite. (Lancaster Gazette, June 29.) 

Lancaster Floral and Horticultural Society. — Sept. 25. Some very fine 
specimens of georginas were exhibited, which were divided into five classes, 
according to their colour. Prizes were distributed; and we observed that 


736 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


Messrs. Conolly and Son were among the most successful competitors. 
The fruits were particularly apples, so various and numerous as to induce 
the committee to abandon all attempts to arrange it. We noticed not less 
than fifty-two different specimens of apples sent by the patron of the So- 
ciety, the Rev. T. Mackreth, all grown in his grounds at Halton: they 
comprised all the new and most excellent kinds, and such as many persons 
feared could not be grown in this northern climate. We noticed that deli- 
cious little pear, the seckle, one of the very best of the American varieties. 
A short account was given by this gentleman of the respective properties 
of each specimen: a very useful plan, which we were glad to see adopted 
by others, particularly Mr. Matthias Saul, who exhibited upwards of forty 
different sorts of apples, grown in his own orchard at Skerton, all of the 
newest and best kinds; among his selection of fruit we noticed the beurré 
d’ Aremberg and the beurré rance, two of the best pears of this, or, per- 
haps, any other country. The exertions of this individual to introduce 
good fruit into this neighbourhood is deserving of great praise. We under- 
stand it is his intention to offer cuttings of any of his apples or pears for 
sale at very moderate prices: this will afford an opportunity to others of 
cultivating the most approved kinds. Very fine specimens of the Gansel 
bergamot, the brown beurré, and the Chaumontelle pears, were sent 
from Ashton Hall, by the Countess of Lincoln. Some very fine specimens 
of apples were sent by Mr. Eidsforth of Poulton Hall, Mr. Salthouse of 
Scotforth, &c.; and a plate of the finest nonpareils we ever saw were 
grown in Dalton Square, in this town, in the garden of Mr. Eastwood. Mr. 
Walmsley was commissioned by the Society to select specimens of the 
different kinds of apples sold in the Lancaster market; and he produced 
between twenty and thirty sorts, all very large and fine in appearance ; but 
many of them, we think, were not of much value. Mr. S. Hinde exhibited 
half a dozen apples of the Easter pippin, that had been gathered in his gar- 
den in November, 1832, in a very high state of preservation. This is a very 
- valuable kitchen apple, and deserving of an extended cultivation. Some 
very fine and curious specimens of different kinds of potatoes, such as are 
grown at Algiers, on the Rhine, and in France, were shown by Mr. Knowlys 
of Heysham. We cannot speak as to their respective merits: they were 
described as very productive; and, we have no doubt, the owner, to whom 
this neighbourhood is greatly indebted for the mtroduction of many new 
and excellent kinds of vegetables, will inform the public if they should be 
found to bear the severities of this climate. We omitted to mention, in 
its proper place, two stands of beautiful flowers, arranged very tastefully, 
and consisting of all the different kinds of new annuals and other autum- 
nal border flowers: they were, we understand, from the garden of the Rev. 
T. Mackreth. The new green-house plant Tropz‘olum tricolorum we also 
observed ; it was the property of Mrs. Wm. Hinde. (Zéid., Sept. 23.) 
Liverpool Floral and Horticultural Society. — Sept. 25. This was an 
extra-show for georginas, fruits, flowers, and vegetables. Mr. Skirving, the 
Messrs. Whalley, and Mr. George Cunningham exhibited some very fine 
specimens of georginas ; and the former gentleman (Mr. Skirving) gained 
twenty-two prizes. Mr. James Howard gained an extra-prize for a very 
beautiful seedling; having a white stripe in the centre of each petal, with 
brilliant scarlet on each side. (Gore’s General Advertiser, Oct. 3.) 
Manchester Botanical and Horticultural Society. — Sept. 30. The last 
exhibition of this Society, for the season, was held at the gardens. Fruits 
and vegetables only were exhibited at this meeting, and these were arranged 
on tables in the first two green-houses. The fruits, particularly the apples, 
were fine and choice; but the vegetables were somewhat inferior to those 
of last year. Of the gardens, we can add nothing more than to state the 
progress of the growth of the trees, which, in the arboretum, are beginning 
to display, by their blending and varied foliage, the scientific manner in 


Lancashire, Leicestershire, Middlesex; Norfolk. qow 


which they are planted. The great variety of the willow family, dipping 
their drooping boughs into the brook which meanders through the lower 
part of the gardens, is very interesting. The alpine plants in the rockery 
become every year more and more pleasing ; the mosses, &c., fast covering 
the craggy stones of this wild scenery in miniature. A bed of handsome 
georginas, mixed with China asters, on each side of the conservatories, was 
very attractive. The conservatories themselves contained nothing parti- 
cular in bloom, but the plants looked healthy and vigorous. Altogether, 
the gardens were clean and in excellent order; and their condition reflects 
much credit on the industrious curator, Mr. Campbell. (Manchester 
Guardian, Oct. 5.) 

LEICEsTERSHIRE. — Leicestershire Floricultural Society. This show was 
for carnations and picotees. The most successful competitors were Mr. 
Wm. Thompson and Mr. T. Deacon. (Weekly Dispatch.) 

Mipp.esex. —The North London and Finchley United Society of Florists. 
April 24, This was an exhibition of auriculas: some fine flowers were 
shown, and several prizes were awarded. 

July 23. This was a show for carnations. 

The Metropolitan Society of Florists and Amateurs. — Aug. 13. This 
show was merely for georginas. 

Aug. 21. Some of the georginas exhibited at this show, particularly 
those of Mr. Widnal of Granchester, were extremely beautiful. Mr. 
Brown of Slough showed a large collection of heartsease ; and Messrs. 
ponder, Mr. Hopwood, and Mr. Dennis exhibited splendid collections of 

owers. 

NorFoik. — Diss Horticultural Society. April 18. The exhibition of 
fruits and vegetables was excellent; but we have seldom observed the 
flower-tables so thinly covered. The specimens which chiefly attracted 
our notice were, a dish of Keen’s seedling strawberries, sent by James 
Flower, Esq., Eccles Hall; mushrooms, kidneybeans, cucumbers, and 
potatoes, by G. St.V. Wilson, Esq., Redgrave ; several sorts of apples, by 
R. Gamble, Esq., Wortham ; asparagus and sea-kale, by Mrs. Harrison, Pal- 
grave; broccoli and celery, by N. W. Ridley Colborne, Esq., West Har- 
ling ; and thirteen stalks of rhubarb (not exhibited for a prize), the produce 
of a single root, measuring from 3 ft. 9 in. to 4 ft. 3 in., and several weigh- 
ing from 13 0z. to 170z. The cucumbers, of which there were several 
brace, were of the best description. The cottagers’ table was exceedingly 
well filled, and fifteen prizes were distributed among them. (Bury and 
Suffolk Herald, April 24.; and Bury and Norwich Post, and East Anglan, 
April 24. 

Sass oan Society. — June 26. The Humea, the Gesneéria, and 
all the plants contributed by Mr. Allen excited great admiration ; as did the 
Hoya from Hamond Lodge; the oleanders and ericas from Wereham 
Hall; the Salpigléssis and Alstroeeméria, &c., from Hunstanton ; and the 
collection of balsams, pelargoniums, &c., from Stowe Hall. Some of the 
vegetables, too, were remarkably fine, particularly the cauliflowers and 
Windsor beans from Mr. Rolin. Upon the cottagers’ tables were some 
good French beans, white currants, cucumbers, &c. (Bury and Norwich 
Post, and East Anghan, July 13.) 

Norwich Horticultural Society. — June 26. Among the flowers, Mrs. 
Mackie’s roses and hybrid calceolarias were remarkably fine, and excited 
great admiration. Several new and well-flowered pelargoniums, a collection 
of pinks, and a number of ericas and other green-house plants, were also 
sent with unsparing liberality by Mrs. Mackie, who still adheres to her 
resolution of refusing to accept the Society’s prizes in return for her sup- 
port. [This lady, we regret to learn, is since dead. Our readers will find 
a short biographical notice of her in our Obituary.] A curious little plant 
of Ceropégia stapelieformis, raised by Mr. Hitchin, and now flowered for 


Vou. IX.— No. 47. 3B 


738 Provincial Hort. Societies : — Northamptonshire, 


the first time, was exhibited by him, and received the large silver medal ; 
and the same prize was adjudged to Mr. Middleton, fora collection of 
plants of the Cactus tribe, the effulgent brilliancy of whose petals eclipsed 
every thing else in the room. There were a great many pinks, some from 
members of the Norwich Florists’ Society [We should be glad to have 
regular notices of the meetings of this Society]; and others from Mr. 
Toll, Mr. H. Newton, Mr. Wilson, Mr. Reynolds, and Mr. Asker. The 
last-mentioned gentleman also sent a stand with twenty sorts of China 
roses from four bushes, and twenty serts of other roses; and another 
stand containing seventeen sorts of roses from one bush. There were also 
a great many beautiful irises, especially some sent by Mr. Fairburn. The 
fruits were fine; there were a few melons, and a brace were to be seen on 
one of the cottagers’ tables. Strawberries were abundant and enormous, 
Wilmot’s superb carrying away the palm for size; but the Carolinas, and 
Downtons, and Keen’s seedlings beating them in delicacy and richness of 
flavour, W. Brereton, Esq., of Britton, sent two large and handsome vines 
(the white muscadine), in pots, with about thirty pendent bunches of well- 
ripened grapes growing on them; and some splendid strawberries. Mr.Tipple 
of Wymondham obtaimed a small silver medal for some good bunches of 
black Hamburgh grapes: and Mrs. Ives’s gardener had the same prize for 
some black prince. There were also many varieties of other fruits and 
vegetables, especially some of the very best ash-leaved kidney potatoes, 
sent by Mr. Vince, that have ever been exhibited. The cottagers’ tables 
were covered; and we no longer have to regret that so few of this class are 
induced to come forward. They have found out that the Society are will- 
ing to encourage them, and they have wisely profited by the discovery. 
No less a sum than 10 guineas was given to this class, at the last Meeting, 
for nearly 100 prizes; and an offer from the chairman at the dinner, John 
Longe, Esq., of “ a set of tea china to the value of 2/., and two volumes 
of the Saturday Magazine,” to the cottager who, at the end of the season, 
shall have obtained the greatest number of prizes for fruits and vegetables ; 
and the same prize to the cottager who shall have obtained the greatest 
number of prizes for flowers during the year, cannot fail to operate as 
a still further inducement to encourage the industrious habits of this 
portion of our contributors. (Bury and Norwich Post, July 3.) 

NortTuampronsHire. — Northamptonshire United Horticultural Society. 
April 18. The following articles were particularly deserving of notice: — 
New golden cress, a very superior salad, from Earl Pomfret. Ericas, 
some fine specimens, from W. J. Dunkley, Esq. Rides sanguineum, a very 
beautiful specimen, from. Earl Pomfret. Some superb specimens of Azalea 
{ndica alba; and Cactus Vandesi, E’pacris impréssa, and numerous other 
fine plants, from Mr. Atkins. Some very fine grapes, strawberries, pines, 
geraniums, and other beautiful specimens of plants, &c., from Lord South- 
ampton. The auriculas and hyacinths were particularly beautiful. A fine 
Camellia japonica alba, and other plants, from the Hon. Mrs. Cockayne 
Medlycott. Black hyacinth, cucumbers, strawberries, forced flowers, and 
numerous other fine specimens, from E. Bouverie, Esq. There were also 
some very good broccoli, new potatoes, forced rhubarb, and numerous other 
vegetables and fruits. (Northampton Mercury, April 26.) 

June 21. There were some noble specimens of the Cactus tribe; one, 
especially, from Lord Southampton, which excited great attention. A 
beautiful Fuchsia gracilis, from E. Bouverie, Esq., was also much admired. 
The pelargoniums were very numerous and beautiful. Among the new 
plants, the yellow Noisette rose, the Petunia pheenicea, and Schizanthus 
retusus, deserve particular mention. All the fruits were remarkably fine; 
pines, grapes, and strawberries (one plate, from E. Bouverie, Esq., contain- 
ing eighteen to the pound); and a plate of beautiful apples, from Mrs. 
Hughes, (Jdid., June 22. 


Northumberland, Staffordshire, Suffolk. ’ 739 


July 25. The show both of flowers and fruit was remarkably brilliant. 
Prizes were given for roses, carnations, and georginas; and Messrs. Mar- 
tin, Halliday, and Atkins appear to have been the most successful com- 
petitors. The articles exhibited for the cottagers’ prizes were excellent. 
(Northampton Mercury, Aug. 3.) 

July 30. Prizes were given for carnations and picotees; and Mr. Mes- 
senger and Mr. Halliday were the most successful competitors. ( bid.) 

NorTHUMBERLAND. — Newcastle Botanical and Horticultural Society. 
Numerous exotics were exhibited; and some very fine vegetables and 
fruit. The committee awarded the silver medal to Mr. W. Kelly, gardener 
to A. Donkin, Esq., Jesmond, for an essay on the cultivation of TrevirAna 
coccinea, delivered in by him at the Meeting held in October last. W. 
Falla, Esq. F.L.S., in addition to many preceding donations, has presented 
to the library of this Society the second edition of the Catalogue of Fruits 
cullivated in the Garden of the Horticultural Society of London at Chiswick. 
(Newcastle Courant, March 8.) 

May 7. The best auricula was Grimes’s privateer, shown by Mr. Mor- 
ris; hyacinths, polyanthuses, &c., were also exhibited. Twelve varieties 
of seedling apples were exhibited by Mr. Michael Hall of Beacon Lough, 
in a state of hich preservation; and two large dishes of baking and eating 
apples, in excellent order, from J.C. Anderson, Esq., Point Pleasant. The 
pelargoniums and hyacinths were very beautiful. (Jdid.) 

June. A great variety of flowers, fruit, and vegetables. There were 
six heads of belle et bonne lettuce; and seven extremely large stalks of 
the giant rhubarb, weighing 24 lbs., from the garden of Mr. Henry Newton, 
nurseryman, Newcastle. The pelargoniums from Mr. Clarke’s were the 
most beautiful we ever witnessed, and made a splendid addition to the 
show; and for which the judges awarded him a silver medal. The Crinum 
pedunculatum, from Mr. Losh, was nearly 5 ft. high, and was the most 
regular and beautiful plant ever exhibited here. (Jdid., June 15.) 

Hexham Botanical and Horticultural Society. — May 11. A great variety 
of flowers, fruit, and vegetables were exhibited. Among the prizes, one 
was awarded to Mr. Joseph Robson, sen., gardener, Hexham, for the best 
four stalks of rhubarb (red Goliath) ; quite superior to any we have seen, 
and even larger than the esteemed Winlaton sort. ( did.) 

The Morpeth Florists’ Society. — May 6. A number of auriculas and 
hyacinths were exhibited, and various prizes were distributed, (Jéid.) 

May 30. Prizes were given for tulips. (Tdid.) 

STAFFORDSHIRE. — Lichfield Florist’s Society. This exhibition was 
principally for carnations and picotees. Some fruits were shown, among 
which was a new grape called Grange’s seedling. 

Wolverhampton Horticultural and Floricultural Society. — July 29. Car- 
nations and picotees were the principal articles exhibited. Of the goose- 
berries, the heaviest red, the roaring lion, weighed 22 dwts. 18 grs.; 
white, eagle, 20 dwts.; yellow, gunner, 19 dwts. 12 grs.; and the green, 
peacock, 19 dwts. 6 ers. 

August 5. This exhibition was also for carnations, picotees, and goose- 
berries. The largest red gooseberry, the roaring lion, weighed 23 dwts. 
12 ers.; white, eagle, 23 dwts. 10 grs.; yellow, gunner, 19 dwts. 6 grs.; 
and the green, peacock, 21 dwts. 6 grs. 

SurroLk.— Bury Horticultural Society. April 30. Unpropitious as 
the season has been for the productions of the garden, this exhibition was 
truly gratifying; and the utility of the institution m stimulating the am- 
bition of the amateur, the professional gardener, and the cottager, is every 
year more plainly manifested. Although the supply of fruits was small on 
this occasion, it included some admirably preserved apples of the finest 
description, amongst which we may especially mention the cottagers’ non- 

3B 2 


740 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — Surrey, 


pareils as some of the best we ever saw. There was one dish only of 
excellent strawberries. (Bury and Norwich Post, May 8. 

Surrey. — Dorking Horticultural Society. This newly established and 
flourishing Society, we are happy to find, has rapidly increased ; and now 
reckons nearly all the surrounding gentlemen and gardeners among its 
members. — J. W. Dorking, April 19. 

WaRWICKSHIRE. — Birmingham Botanical and Horticultural Society. 
June 19. and 20. This was the first public exhibition of this Society ; 
and about 400 articles were shown. Many of these were from the nur- 
sery of Messrs. Pope and Sons, Handsworth, and the remainder from 
the gardens of numerous noblemen and gentlemen in the neighbour- 
hood. The plants from the gardens at Edgbaston were not shown for 
competition. They were upwards of two hundred and fifty in number, 
comprising stove, green-house, alpine, and herbaceous plants, the greater 
part of them in flower. With the exception of a few, which were 
mixed with the others on the circular stands in the middle of the room, 
they were arranged on the right hand stand by themselves. A plant of 
Petunia pheenicea, 53 ft. high, stood on the top of one of the circular 
stages, and an Eriophyllum czspitosum, 3 ft. in diameter, spread over the 
top of the other. Among those on the stage appropriated to the plants 
from the garden were, Schizanthus Hodékeri, Andrémeda dbuxifolia, Ana- 
gallis Webbiana, Béllium crassifolium, Begonia Selloz, Cineraria lactea, 
Collomia linearis, Cypélla Herbérté, Digitalis laciniata and minor, Hunne- 
mannia fumariefolia, Isopléxis canariénsis, Linaria supina, Linum sp. nova, 
from Chile, 1832, Leptostélma maximum, Lychnis pyrenaica, Mutisza 
supérba, Gfnothera serrulata, Scoparia flava, Verbena radicans, &e. A 
large plant of Heracléwm sp. (cow parsnep) stood upon the floor, and was 
the object of considerable attention. The Society’s plants formed of them- 
selves a splendid and highly interesting collection; and served to display 
to full advantage the skill and scientific culture of Mr. Cameron, the much 
respected curator. No money prizes being offered at this show, a sub- 
scription was raised, chiefly among the members of the committee, for the 
purpose of presenting to those gardeners who distinguished themselves on 
the occasion some testimonial of approbation. Six gardeners were se- 
lected by the judges; and suitable presents, with inscriptions, are in 
course of preparation, and will be transmitted to them as soon as they are 
completed. (See p. 462.) (Aris’s Birmingham Gazette, June 24.) 

August 21. and 22. The awning for the reception of plants was raised 
over one of the walks in the lower part of the gardens, by which the full 
extent of the terrace was left for the company to promenade, and the con- 
servatory and houses, before partially obscured, were seen to full advantage. 
Owing to the advanced period of the season, the variety of stove and 
green-house plants was not so numerous, but the coup d’eil on entering 
the awning far surpassed either of the former exhibitions, from the brilliant 
display of fine tender annuals and georginas, of which latter there were 
upwards of seven hundred glasses. The number of cut specimens of 
hardy plants also contributed much, from their variety of colour, to aid 
the general effect. There was an extensive and choice collection of fruits 
and vegetables, of which there were upwards of two hundred and forty 
dishes. (Jbid., August 26.) 

Deritend and Bordesley Floral and Horticultural Society.— June 20. 
The display of roses was most extensive and beautiful; at least one thou- 
sand specimens graced the flower-stand, for a large portion of which the 
Society was indebted to the liberality of the Earl of Bradford and Mr. 
Waddell of Small-heath. A large variety of choice pinks were exhibited ; 
but the ranunculuses were few in number. A rare and splendid Gloriésa 
supérba, from John Willmore, Esq., of Oldford, supposed to be the only 
specimen that has bloomed in this part of England during the last fifteen 


Warwickshire, Wiltshire, Worcestershire, Yorkshire. '741 


years, adorned the centre of the fitst prize stand, and commanded uni- 
versal admiration. Four hundred specimens from Messrs. Pope and 
Sons of Handsworth, among which were the finest collections of herba- 
ceous plants, pelargoniums, seedling pinks, roses, &c., greatly increased 
the beauty of the stands; and many of their fine specimens were duly 
appreciated by the judges, a large portion of the prizes having been 
awarded to them. The nosegays and groups of flowers were very numer- 
ous; and among them was a fine one from Lord Hood, and a superb one 
from Mr. Smith, the gardener of James Woolley, Esq. The strawberries 
were matchless in quality, and their tempting fragrance was the subject of 
general remark. The cherries and grapes were very fine, and the melons 
from Mrs. Taylor of Moseley Hall attracted much attention. Mr. Sadler, 
the gardener of Sir Charles Throckmorton, carried away a great number 
of prizes for fruits and vegetables. The cucumbers were very fine; and 
one from Mr. Fletcher of Hockley was much admired. Mr. Kendall 
emptied his green-house and pits of all their finest specimens, and was 
more than usually successful. The cottagers’ and artisans’ stand pre- 
sented a most gratifying display; and the committee were as liberal as 
their funds would allow in giving rewards for the most approved speci- 
mens. (Aris’s Birmingham Gazette, June 24.) 

Witsuire. — Wilts and General Horticultural Society. April 9. Never 
were plants and flowers exhibited in greater beauty; and the thanks of 
the city and county are due to the gentlemen’s gardeners for the very 
great perfection to which they have brought their productions. Many 
prizes were distributed; and we observe that Mr. Hughes, gardener to 
C. B. Wall, Esq., Mr. Dodd, gardener to Col. Baker, and Mr. Christie, 
gardener to the Earl of Radnor, were among the most successful com- 
petitors. Several cottagers’ prizes were awarded. (Salisbury and Win- 
chester Journal, April 15.) 

June 18. Numerous prizes were awarded, among which were twelve 
for cottagers. A stalk of the giant rhubarb, which weighed nearly 2 lbs., 
was shown by J. T. Thring, Esq. (Jdid., June 24.) 

WorcestERsHIRE. — Worcestershire Horticultural and Floral Society. 
Sept. 18. Pines in profusion from the Marchioness ef Downshire’s, Sir 
C. S. Smith’s, Rev. Mr. Harward’s, Captain Vernon’s, and others, ap- 
peared in the highest possible state of perfection, and were universally 
admired. Peaches and nectarines were not quite so plentiful; but some 
very fine specimens of grapes attracted notice, as well as some curious 
varieties of plum. One of the latter, from Dr. Prattenton’s, a seedling 
that had never been budded or grafted, elicited much remark. To enu- 
merate the endless varieties of apple and pear that literally crowded the 
tables, we find to be impossible: we can only say, that, with such a display 
in view, Worcestershire will not easily give up the palm as the land of 
apples and pears. Its inhabitants might now, with as much propriety as 
Michael Drayton says their ancestors did at the battle of Agincourt, dis- 
play for their banner, — ‘“‘ Worcester —a pear tree laden with its fruit.” 
We ought to notice that two fine young trees of the Court of Wick pippin, 
from Mr. Eaton’s, in full bearing, graced the northern end of the hall. 
(Berrowe’s Worcester Journal, Sept. 19.) . 

Yorxsuire. — Doncaster, Retford, and Bawtry Horticultural Society. 
April 11. This was the first public exhibition of this Society. The room 
in which the fruit, vegetables, and plants were arranged was decorated by 
Mr. Shooter, gardener to the Dowager Lady Galway, in a tasteful manner, 
with festoons of evergreens, &c. All the stages for the reception of the 
plants were fully occupied ; and the interest which prevailed on the occa- 
sion was heightened by the liberality of Lady Galway, who furnished 
several specimens of beautiful and rare plants. A beautiful collection of 

3B 3 


74.2 Provincial Horticultural Societies :— 


ericas was exhibited by Mr. Duncan, gardener to Lord Althorp; but they 
had not been in his possession a sufficient time to obtain a prize. The 
first exhibition of this Society has commenced in so auspicious a manner, 
as to warrant the conclusion, especially if, as we hope will be the case, the 
patronage of the neighbouring families be still further extended, that the 
future exhibitions will prove the source of considerable utility, gratifi- 
cation, and attraction. (Doncaster, Nottingham, and Lincoln Gazette, 
April 19.) 

Hull Floral and Horticultural Society May 6.and 7. Many beautiful 
flowers were exhibited. The prizes for the two best auriculas, Flora’s 
flag and Stretch’s Alexander, were both gained by Mr. D. Brown. 
(Hull and Rockingham Gazette, May 11.) 

May 23. This was a show of tulips, and some very fine flowers were 
exhibited. The prize for the best, ncomparable bienfait, was adjudged 
to Mr. William Burman. (Jdid., May 25.) 

June 17. The ranunculuses exhibited at this show were not so numer- 
ous as on some former occasions; which circumstance was owing to the 
long continuance of dry weather, which is so unfavourable to these 
flowers. We had the pleasure, however, of witnessing some of a new 
and rare kind, several of which had been raised from seed by the amateurs 
of this town. The premium for the best flower, Benjamin, was adjudged 
to Mr. Beecroft. (Jdid., June 22.) 

July 1. This exhibition was for pinks and roses. The premium for 
the best pink, Miss Beresford, was gained by Mr. T. Simpson; and that 
for the best rose, the moss Provence, by Mr. R. Oglesby. (Jéid., July 6.) 

July 30. This exhibition was in the highest degree splendid. The car- 
nations and picotees, we venture to say, could not be excelled in any part 
of the kingdom. The amateur in flowers was not less gratified with them, 
than with a display of rare curious German stocks, consisting of twenty- 
seven varieties of as many different hues. The grapes, melons, and goose- 
berries were also fine, and did great credit to their respective owners. We 
have sincere pleasure in observing that the taste for horticulture is increas- 
ing in this neighbourhood. (Idid., August 3.) 

Leeds Exhibition of Carnations and Picotees.— August 5. Some fine 
flowers were exhibited by B. Ely and 8. Peace. (Jdid., August 16.) 

Sheffield Horticultural Society. — May 22. The principal attraction at 
this exhibition (the ladies apart, of course) were the plants sent from the 
gardens of Ear] Fitzwilliam, which were considered by the judges as of the 
rarest kinds ever exhibited. Plants were also received from the garden 
and conservatories of the Duke of Devonshire, Lord Wharncliffe, the 
Rev. W. Bagshaw, B. Ward, Esq., Messrs. Fisher, Holmes, and Co., 
_ Miss Marshall, &c., all of which were pronounced of the most superior 

sorts. The tulips were also very attractive; but the display of fruits 
and vegetables were not equal to those of former exhibitions. A plate 
of very fine Keen’s seedling strawberries was sent from Chatsworth. 
(Sheffield Mercury, May 25.) 

West Riding Horticultural Society.— July 18. The exhibition of fruits, 
flowers, and vegetables was unusually fine and extensive. Over the music 
gallery we noticed a very tasteful design, composed with hardy flowers 
from the gardens of G. Wentworth, Esq., of Woolley Park, representing 
the royal arms, with the inscription, “ Auxilio vigimus vestro” (We flourish 
under your protection). The platform exhibited its usual decorations, 
among which was a very splendid hardy bouquet, containing upwards of 350 
sorts of flowers, from the gardens of Mr. Barratt of Wakefield. Among 
the flowers were Tropz‘olum majus var. atrosanguineum, or blood-coloured 
nasturtium, William Barratt, Wakefield; Poivréa coccinea, 8. Appleby, 
Rey. J. A. Rhodes; and a beautiful variety of marigolds, from Mrs. 


Yorkshire. 743 


Fawkes. The show of georginas, for the season of the year, was of the 
most splendid description, amounting to about 300 varieties. One of the 
most beautiful of the new annyals, the Schizanthus Hodkeri, gained the 
prize for the best exotic annual. Among the green-house plants were, Pe- 
tunia _pheenicea, Verbena Lambérti, V. vendsa, Salpigléssis Barclaydna, 
Oxylobium cordifolium (new variety), and O’xalis Déppei, with a variety 
of others newly introduced. The different kinds of culinary vegetables 
in the exhibition were remarkably fine. (Wakefield and Halfax Journal, 
July 20.) 

Sept. 25. The decorations of the room were unusually tasteful and 
elegant. In front of the music gallery was a stag’s head of immense size, 
between the antlers of which were suspended two very large bunches of 
Syrian grapes, the whole being surrounded by a beautiful design of flowers, 
and surmounted by the inscription, “ Numbers, chap. xiii. verse 23.” This 
decoration was sent by A. Heywood Esgq., of Stanley. The decorations 
in front of the platform at the head of the room, as well as the festoons of 
flowers which were suspended along its sides, were furnished by Mr. Wil- 
liam Barratt, nurseryman, of Wakefield, and were decidedly superior to 
the ornaments on former occasions. We noticed the following plants 
among those sent by Mr. Joseph Cooper, botanic gardener to the Right 
Hon. Earl Fitzwilliam; the Notelz‘a punctata, in flower, supposed to be 
the first time of its flowering in England. The Cymbidium lancifolium 
and Nepénthes distillatoria, or pitcher plant; a very fine specimen of the 
Crinum améabile, from Major Farrand of Arden Grange; also the Psidium 
Cattleidnwm, or purple-fruited guava, from the gardens of the Rev. J. A. 
Rhodes ; and, from the same place, the Vernonia axillifldra, a plant and 
specimen of a cone of Banksia grandis, from New Holland. A new species 
of Salvia was exhibited by the Rev. S. Sharp, which he brought, in July 
last, out of the county of Hertford. It was raised from seed sent from 
Corfu ; and it is supposed that until this year the plant was unknown in 
this country. Mr. Thomas Belton, gardener to C. Winn, Esq., Nostell 
Priory, exhibited a specimen of a rare fungus, Agaricus nobilis; likewise 
three fine specimens of dwarf cockscombs. The vegetables exhibited were 
of the very first description, consisting of almost every production of the 
garden. A medal was exhibited by Mr. Appleby, gardener to the Rev. 
J. A. Rhodes, which had been presented to the West Riding Society, to 
be given to those gardeners who had most distinguished themselves at its 

“periodical meetings. This is the third medal which has been given by the 
London Society to the West Riding Horticultural Society. Mr. Major 
exhibited a model of a machine for warming stoves, green-houses, frames, 
or rooms, with hot water, which excited some attention, and can be fur- 
nished at a very trifling expense. The cucumber exhibited by J. Catton 
was grown from seed produced from a cucumber raised this year, sown in 
January : its length was 22 in.; it was one of the specimens that gained 
the prize. Many other very beautiful specimens were exhibited from the 
gardens of the gentlemen in the neighbourhood ; and numerous prizes 
were distributed. (Jdid., Sept. 27.) 

York Floral and Horticultural Society.— The appearance of the hall 
resembled that of one vast conservatory. The most magnificent and rare 
plants abounded, and flowers of every varied hue shed their perfumes 
around, dispensing fragrance far and wide. A table in the centre of the 
hall was covered with pelargoniums, of which there were at least seventy 
different species, many of them of the rarest and most beautiful kinds. 
On the right hand, a great number of charming exotics were tastefully 
arranged ; and on the left was a fine display of vegetables and fruit which 
had been shown for prizes. There was a rich profusion of peas, cucum- 
bers, rhubarb, salad, potatoes, gooseberries, &c.; and the prize vegetables 

3B 4 


ThA Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


were particularly fine specimens. The prize flowers, bouquets, and stove 
plants were arranged on a cross table at the bottom of the hall: these 
were admirable specimens of the various kinds. Two gigantic bouquets 
were placed at the back of this table; they were furnished by Mr. Wood, 
gardener to Messrs. Backhouse, and by Mr. Clarkson; were each upwards of 
10 ft. high; and contained a vast number of varieties. Several other 
handsome bouquets ornamented the room. There was also a variety of 
handsome stove and green-house plants, and above forty varieties of seed- 
ling calceolarias. Prizes were given for tulips, pelargoniums, &c. (Wake= 
Jjield and Halifax Journal, Sept. 27.) 

June 19. Among the green-house plants exhibited was a very fine 
specimen of Callistémon salignus. This splendid specimen is a native of 
New South Wales, and was introduced into this country in 1788; it 
stands 12 ft. high, is covered with upwards of thirty spikes of beautiful 
scarlet flowers, and was a plant of general admiration in the room. A 
beautiful fuchsia in full flower was exhibited by Mr. Hammond. The 
ranunculuses were small and few; but the roses, pinks, and pelargoniums 
were very fine. (Jé:d., June 22.) 

York Florists’ Society. — June 17. This show consisted chiefly of 
ranunculuses and pelargoniums; and many very fine specimens were 
exhibited. (Idzd.) 

York Horticultural Society.— April 24.__Much taste was shown in the 
arrangement of the plants and flowers ; and on entering the hall, the spec- 
tacle was a striking and beautiful one. In the middle of the centre circle 
of a noble Gothic room, tables were placed, which were covered with 
auriculas, hyacinths, polyanthuses, bouquets, &c., in rich profusion ; toge- 
ther with a number of beautiful plants in flower, from the stoves and 
green-houses of several friends to the Society. On each side were ranged 
a great variety of noble exotics, from the stoves and green-houses of Dr. 
Simpson, Miss Nelson, Mrs. Pickard, J. Buckle, Esq., Alderman Oldfield, 
Messrs. Backhouse, Mr. Hammond, and Mr. Priestman. A beautifui 
specimen was exhibited of Wistarza Consequana, which excited much 
attention, and was universally admired. Among the ornaments of the 
room were a number of flowers cut from turnips, carrots, and other vege- 
table substances, by Mr. Johnstone, cook at the Black Swan Hotel, 
which were much admired. (Yorkshire Gazette, April 7.) 

GUERNSEY AND JERSEY. — Guernsey Horticultural Society. July 25. 
This was the first public exhibition of a Society which has not been long 
formed, but which is rapidly attaining considerable importance. The car- 
nations consisted principally of the kind called yellow picotees, with afew 
flakes and bizarres; and filled a stage of four shelves, each shelf being 
42 ft. long. A large rose-leaved dark slate colour, attracted much atten 
tion; also two Guernsey seedlings, raised last year, in the Royal Sarnia, 
by Charles de Jersey, Esq. ; and Dr. Brock’s seedling. There were also 
three collections of cut flowers (yellow picotees), one containing eighty 
specimens of seedlings, from Dr. Brock, raised this year, comprising many 
of great beauty ; and a specimen from Charles de Jersey, Esq., of seed- 
lings raised this year, which attracted universal admiration; as did also 
that great favourite William the Fourth. The zeal and well-merited suc- 
cess of the two gentlemen above named are worthy of being imitated. It 
is impossible to particularise the merits of all the different flowers exhi- 
bited on the occasion ; but among the most striking were those named the 
Duke of Norfolk and Lord De Saumarez. There was also a variety of 
rare and beautiful exotics, among which we particularly noticed Poivrea 
coccinea, Quisqualis indica, Crimum americanum, and Fichsia_ glo- 
bosa, all in full flower; Astrapee‘a Wallichz, from the stove of Dr. 
Brock ; a beautiful plant of Cléthra arborea, in full flower; and a table of 


Guernsey and Jersey, Wales, Scotland. 745 


rare ericas from Mr. Collyer’s (a public-spirited nurseryman), together 
with three or four superb specimens of Nérium spléndens, excited uni- 
versal admiration, both for their beauty and perfume. (Guernsey Comet, 
July 29.) 

Jersey Agricultural and Horticultural Society. — This Society, being only 
just established, has not as yet had any public exhibition; but, from the 
rules agreed upon at a meeting of several of the influential persons in the 
island, it appears likely to be of essential benefit : and we need scarcely add, 
that we most earnestly wish it success. (Jersey Times, Aug. 27.) 


WALES. 


Glamorgan and Monmouthshire Horticultural Society. — June 5. A num- 
ber of green-house and stove plants were sent by Mr. Miller of Bristol, 
including a great variety of salpiglossises, ericas, and calceolarias. There 
were also many beautiful plants sent by the nobility and gentry in the 
vicinity, among which several cactuses and pelargoniums, and a most 
beautiful mesembryanthemum caused particular admiration. (Glamorgan, 
Monmouth, and Brecon Gazette, June 15.) 

Swansea and Neath Horticultural Society. — May 25. This exhibition 
was remarkably fine in flowers, fruits, and vegetables; and the cottagers’ 
flowers and vegetables were particularly admired. Seven prizes were 
awarded to cottagers, a circumstance highly creditable to the Society [and 
to the cottagers]. 

August. A number of very beautiful and valuable plants were exhi- 
bited ; and many prizes were distributed, among which were about twenty 
to cottagers. We cannot allude to the productions on this occasion, as 
space prevents us, further than to say there were several hundred geor- 
ginas in the room, but many sadly injured by coming from a distance. We 
are happy to remark that the non-subscribers were doubled on this occa- 
sion, and the cottagers increased. We think it well to notice a collection 
of carnations which were brought by Thomas Harper, as it may induce 
cottagers to cultivate good things; for this man obtained orders for five 
dozen of his flowers, at ls. each, from several ladies of distinction: there- 
fore, far greater advantages may accrue to the cottager than merely the 
prize or prizes awarded to him. (Cambrian, Aug. 31.) 


SCOTLAND. 


ABERDEENSHIRE. — Aberdeenshire Horticultural Society. Nov. 12.1832. 
Prizes were awarded for apples, pears, vegetables, and flowers. (Aberdeen 
Journal, Nov. 14. 1832.) 

June 22. The specimens presented for competition were excellent, parti- 
cularly the peas, cauliflowers, and potatoes. There were only two specimens 
of cherries; the one from the garden of Colonel Campbell of Blackhall, 
and the other from the garden of Sir R. D. H. Elphinstone of Logie El- 
phinstone. Two specimens of strawberries: that from the garden of Mr. 
Aiken, Strawberrybank, was the best. Several groups of ornamental 
flowers were upon the table: those from the garden of Mr. Forbes of 
Springhill were the best and most admired. (Ldid., June 27.) 

Ayrsuire. — Ayrshire Horticultural and Agricultural Society. May 31. 
The show of horticultural produce was reckoned fully superior to the 
average display at the commencement of the season; and, in addition to 
the classes to which prizes were awarded, many choice specimens of rare 
and beautiful plants and flowers were exhibited. The show of tulips was 
much admired ; and, we understand, even a more varied and brilliant display 
might have been exhibited, but for the intense heat which prevailed for the 
last few weeks bringing many beds too early into bloom, Among the 
choice plants we noticed the following : — Paonia tenuifolia pléna, a very 


746 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — 


fine plant, a native of Russia, and the first time ever exhibited in Britain ; 
two varieties, élegans and alba, of the Dodecatheon Meadia, or American 
cowslip, both beautiful plants; Zilium monadélphum, not a very rare but 
a very fine plant; three species of Cypripedium, or lady’s slipper, pubés- 
cens, parviflorum, and Calcéolus; Campanula Saxifraga, a rare and fine 
species from Siberia; from Mr. John Goldie, Wrightfield. A fine specimen 
of the Rosa Banksie lutea, reared on the open wall, from Mr. Skinner, 
Auchincruive. A beautiful specimen of the Saxifraga Cotylédon, from 
Roselle garden, attracted much attention. A fine specimen of the Céreus 
flagelliformis ; good specimens of the Tropz‘olum pentaphyllum, O’xalis 
floribinda ; Rosa Smithz, or yellow Noisette ; and Petunia phenicea, from 
Messrs. Smith and Son. Some very fiue specimens of citron fruit, from 
Mr. Rose, Eglinton Castle. Among the agricultural specimens, a species 
of clover, exhibited by Mr. Skinner, Auchiner ulve, attracted much atten- 
tion: the Z'rifolium incarnatum, an Italian annual, not so remarkable for 
its recent introduction, as for its limited cultivation, in this country. We 
understand the Society are indebted, for the introduction of the seed of the 
specimen shown, to their benevolent patron, Mr. Oswald of Auchincruive. 
The spike of flowers is of an oblong shape, about 3 in. in length, and of a 
dark red colour ; the stalk, full grown, measures 3 ft. Mr. Skinner observed 
that the seed is remarkably prolific. About the Ist of September last, he 
sowed 30 falls, which brairded in about three weeks, and was in full bloom 
about the middle of May; presenting a most luxuriant appearance, and 
yielding about 300 stones per acre. A variety of early vegetables were 
shown. Dale’s hybrid turnips were admired. The mangold wurzel, which 
was shown by Mr. Aiton, Fullerton, from its size and fine state of presery- 
ation, attracted particular observation, being considered superior to any 
hitherto exhibited at this season of the year. (Ai Advertiser, June 6.) 
Sept. 4. The room was tastefully decorated with arches, and festoons 
of flowers and shrubs; and many of the articles exhibited for competition 
were certainly very fine specimens. The agricultural department of the 
show was rather deficient in point of quantity and variety ; but, we believe, 
steps will be taken to remedy this defect against next year. Among the 
plants shown was Verbena vendsa; Erythrole na conspicua, 9 ft. high. 
There was also a decanter, made from a curious knotty piece of birch 
wood, presented by Mr. Fergusson, wright, Wallacetown. A sowmg ma- 
chine, presented by Mr. Daniel M‘Naught, Warwick ; and, as far as regarded 
carrots, those who saw it, and were competent judges, approved of it, and 
recommended it to the notice of the Highland Society. A branch of an 
arbutus or strawberry tree, covered with “fruit, was presented from Rose- 
neath flower-garden: the plant, although only nine years planted, measures 
Al ft. in circumference, and 9 ft. in height. A quantity of figs was exhi- 
-bited, from Mr. Selkirk, gardener, Roseneath, from a tree 4:1 ft. in breadth 
‘by 18 ft. in height, on which there are at present above 1000 fruit. Mr. 
Alexander Malcolm, gardener, Roseneath Cottage, presented specimens of 
red beet and carrots; also three bottles of wine, made from white, red, and 
black currants, without any addition of wine or spirituous liquor. The 
red, in particular, was considered very excellent. (Ayr Observer, Sept. 10.) 
DumrrizessHiRE. — Dumfries and Galloway Horticultural Society. 
Sept. 19. Mr. Grierson produced 41 new kinds of potatoes, which he had 
cultivated in his garden at Baitiord, from seed which he had received from 
Mr. Lawson, Edinburgh, seedsman to the Highland Society. Healso pro- 
duced a large and fine specimen of black turnip. A fine stalk of Indian 
corn, 12ft. long, was exhibited by Mr. John Rankine. A prize of one 
sovereign was awarded to R. Black, blacksmith, Tynronkirk, for the best 
kept cottage garden, and in which was the best assortment of vegetables. 
Prizes were also awarded to the same person for the best onions, cabbage, 


Dumfriesshire, Fifeshire, Mid-Lothian. 747 


and savoys; to Thomas Smith, shoemaker, Tynronkirk, for the best carrots 
and turnips ; and to John Hairstens, Thornhill, for the best German greens, 
potatoes, and onions. The show of fruit and flowers was very fine. 
(Dumfries and Galloway Courier, Sept. 25.) 

Firesuirg. — Cupar Horticultnral Society. Sept. 19. The specimens 
exhibited were very fine, but there was not so great a variety as we have 
occasionally seen exhibited: the show was principally of fruit, but there 
were some few flowers. (Fifeshire Journal, Sept. 21.) 

St. Andrews Horticultural and Floral Society. Sept. 16. The fruits were of 
the finest description ; and there was a rich variety of flowers, both hardy 
and exotic. The collection of georginas presented, in their fineness of 
form and beauty of colour, a very interesting spectacle. The culinary ve- 
getables also were of an astonishing description, and showed at once the 
excellence of their culture. Such a display of fruits, flowers, and vegetables 
was never before seen within the ancient and venerable city of St. Andrews. 
There was shown, from the garden of Mrs. Cheap, a splendid broad-leaved 
myrtle in full bloom; Calceolaria rugosa, bicolor, tricolor, and Caleydna, 
Fuchsia globosa, microphylla, gracilis, and a splendid collection of georginas; 
also a pot of muscadine grapes, fourteen bunches, from the garden of John 
Small, Esq.; some fine seedling georginas from the garden of Mrs. Glass, 
Abbey Park, and from the garden of Col. Lindsay of Balcarres; some 
beautiful seedling carnations, and twelve dark double hollyhocks from 
Mr. Lumsden’s, Lathallan; and some excellent georginas, &c., from Mr. 
Bowsie, writer. (Jdid.) 

Mip-Lornran.— Caledonian Horticultural Society, Dec. 6. The prize 
samples of fruits and vegetables formed a rich and interesting display, su- 
perior to any which we have lately witnessed. The specimens of fine 
winter pears belonging to kinds recently introduced from France and 
Flanders, and now successfully cultivated in many of our gardens, occupied 
a prominent place. The dessert apples were likewise much admired. All 
the specimens had the names attached to them. The collection of shad- 
docks, and of oranges, sweet and bitter, was interesting; many persons 
scarcely believing that Scotland could have preduced such fruit : they were 
chiefly frem Woodhall, Dalhousie, and Raehills gardens. Among the un- 
common culinary vegetables, one of the most important was a basket of 
blanched Buda kale (or Jerusalem kale) from Archerfield, where, it was 
mentioned, this dish has become a favourite. Genuine specimens of three 
uncommon kinds of beet, the Neapolitan, Bassano, and red turnip-rooted, 
were from the Society’s Experimental Garden at Edmburgh; also the 
purple and white kohl rabi, and likewise several kinds of turnips, of un- 
common shapes and colours, particularly the Boatfield turnip, long white 
and long yellow, white French, and white French tipped with pink, and the 
new black turnip, supposed to be a hybrid between a white turnip and the 
black Spanish radish. These productions were considered highly credit- 
able to the zeal and talents of Mr. Barnet, the superintendent of the gar- 
dens. The secretary read an account of the cultivation of the water-lemon, 
or fruit of the Passiflora /aurifolia, at Ripley Castle in Yorkshire, by Mr. 
Thomas Henderson, gardener there, and also a letter from James Spence, 
Esq., announcing a present to the garden of fifty kinds of bulbs and seeds, 
lately brought from the Cape of Good Hope by Lieutenant Williamson of 
the 42d Regiment. (Edinburgh Advertiser, Dec. 11. 1832.) 

March 7%. Besides the competition flowers, a splendid collection of 
hyacinths was exhibited by Messrs. James Dickson and Sons, comprising 
most of the rare kinds now in cultivation. Mr. Thomas Cleghorn, seeds- 
man, also produced an excellent collection of hyacinths, and Mr. Cunning- 
ham of Comely Bank Nursery sent a fine seedling camellia raised in 
Scotland. Of the plants sent for exhibition, the following were among the 


748 Provincial Horticultural Societies :— 


most conspicuous : — Two splendid plants, in full flower, of the Azalea 
ledifolia, a specimen of the Cinnamomum yerum in full fruit, a rare occur- 
rence in this country; also specimens of the Galanthus plicatus, A‘jar 
exjguus, A. nanus both major and minor, Acacia affinis, flowered in the open 
air, all from the garden of the Society’s secretary at Canonmills, and with 
which the committee were so much pleased as to pass a unanimous vote 
of thanks to Mr. William Brackenridge, his gardener, as affording ample 
proof of skilful management. An elegant plant of E’pacris impréssa was 
sent from the rich collection of Professor Dunbar, at Rose Park. From 
Mr. Cunningham’s nursery at Comely Bank were sent a fine plant of 
Rhododéndron arboreum hybridum, also a collection of rare camellias in 
full flower. A large and splendid plant of Erica linnzoides, which oc- 
cupied the centre of the exhibition table, and a specimen of the Platylobium 
parviflorum, from the Royal Botanic Garden, were much admired. The 
Society’s Experimental Garden supplied well-grown specimens of Phcend- 
coma prolifera, and Ardisia crenulata, besides varieties of rare and curious 
culinary vegetables, consisting of beets, turnips, kohl rabi, and Buda kale. 
(Edinburgh Advertiser, March 12.) 

Experimental Garden, Edinburgh. — June 6. When the competition was 
over, the whole plants (except the calceolarias, of which there were 120 
pots, and which occupied a separate stage) were arranged on the extensive 
stage before alluded to, which was about 60 ft. in length, the largest plants 
being placed in the centre. The coup d’eil was very grand, and the most 
competent judges declared that they had never witnessed so rich a display. 
Some of the most remarkable were from Mr. Cunningham’s nurseries at 
Comely Bank; such as Boronia serrulata (probably the finest specimen in 
Europe), Erica florida alba, and Schizanthus Hooker: Others, of great 
merit, were from the collection of Professor Dunbar at Rosepark, particu- 
larly about twenty species of beautiful and splendid examples of Cape ericas 
and Azalea indica phcenicea, Alstreeméria pulchélla more than 7 fts high, 
and Corrz‘a speciésa. Some fine plants were from the nurseries of Messrs. 
Dickson and Co., Leith Walk, particularly Fachsia globosa, and Callistachys 
ovata and lanceolata. The numerous specimens from the nurseries of 
Messrs. James Dickson and Sons, Inverleith, attracted much notice, par- 
ticularly the Nierembérgia [Petznia] pheenicea and N. gracilis. As on former 
occasions, the Royal Botanic Garden contributed largely to the show ; 
among the most remarkable plants from that excellently managed establish- 
ment were an elegant palm, Latdnia borbonica, with Erica metulzeflora, 
spuria, and odorata, all of great beauty. Some good specimens of Caméllea 
and Fichsia were sent from Dalhousie Castle garden. We must not omit 
to notice a new species of Nierembérgia, unrivalled for colour, raised from 
seeds brought from South America, at the garden of Mr. Neill, from whose 
collection also appeared very fine specimens of Dionz’e muscipula and 
Sinningia guttata. The garden of the Society afforded some noble plants, 
particularly Araucaria Cunningham:, Nepénthes distillatoria, Fachsa Thom- 
soni, Begonia lucida, and Cypripédium spectabile ; the latter of extraor- 
dinary size and beauty. A specimen of Cereus flagelliférmis, trained to a 
neat small trellis, and covered with flowers, from the garden of Mr. Waddel, 
Hermitage Hall, had a singular effect. An incomparable specimen of 
Rosa Banksie, covered with clusters of flowers, from an open wall (west 
aspect) at Hopetoun House garden, was much admired. Some very 
admirable specimens of camellia, from the garden of Sir Robert Preston 
of Valleyfield, occupied a prominent place on the grounds. (Edinburgh 
Advertiser, June 7.) 

RENFREWSHIRE. — Glasgow Horticultural Society. June 21. Several 
specimens of the choicest flowers were shown, which attracted general ad- 
miration : the vegetables exhibited were early, and of the most excellent 


Renfrewshire, Stirlingshire, Ireland. 749 


quality ; and the fruits, such as peaches, nectarines, and strawberries, were 
very superior both in appearance and flavour. The prizes were awarded 
chiefly for ranunculuses, roses, anemones, and other flowers of the season. 
(Glasgow Free Press, June 22.) 

_ STIRLINGSHIRE. — Stirling Horticultural Society. May. Prizes were 
given for auriculas, hyacinths, and other spring flowers; there were also 
many green-house and stove plants exhibited, and, being splendid speci- 
mens, the plants in full flower, and, in general, properly named, they gave 
much interest to the show. (Jbid.) 

July 4.— Besides the prizes distributed for the usual articles, the 
directors having offered a silver medal, with an inscription (to the person, 
whether a member of the Society or not), for the best model of a moss or 
heath house, and a premium for the best rustic chair to be produced at 
this meeting, a spirited competition took place, when the result was as un- 
der: Moss house, Ist, James Henderson (aged 16), son of Mr. William Hen- 
derson, gardener, Gartur; 2d, James Faichney, journeyman gardener, 
Airthrey Castle; 3d, Michael Carmichael, apprentice gardener, Polmaise. 
Besides these, there appeared in competition two models from Blair Drum- 
mond, one from Kippenross, and one from Westertown. Rustic chair, 
Ist, James Clow, Westertown; 2d, John MacKenzie, Blairdrummond ; 
3d, George Gow, Wester Livilands. Alexander Gow, Wester Livilands, a 
rustic bridge, formed over a chasm of rockwork, studded with wild plants. 
The principal object of attraction, on this occasion, was this admirable collec- 
tion of moss houses, which occupied a large table, placed on the terrace con- 
tiguous to the hall: it, being appropriately overhung with indigenous shrubs, 
produced an effect novel and imposing. All the specimens in this depart- 
ment were particularly admired, and reflected the highest credit on the 
ingenuity and taste of the juvenile constructors. Displays of these useful 
decorations, so much connected with the improvement of our flower-gar- 
dens and rural scenery, are a new feature in the exhibitions of horticultural 
societies, and are as yet peculiar to Stirling alone. The subject is certamly 
deserving of the highest encouragement, and there can be no doubt that 
the example will be followed in other districts. (drd., July 12.) 

[We like much the idea of inducing young men to compose rustic 
structures, combining rockwork and vegetation, because we think it will 
improve their taste in landscape-gardening. We recommend the idea to 
be pushed farther, and encouragement to be given for models of plantations, 
grouped in the natural manner. A board might be adopted as the surface 
ofa park or lay, and sprigs might be stuck into it in imitation of trees; 
water, rocks, roads, and walks might also be introduced.] 

Sept. 12.— This exhibition was for georginas, hollyhocks, &c., and 
autumnal fruits and vegetables. Numerous fine specimens were shown, 
and many prizes were awarded, (Jbid., Sept. 20.) 


IRELAND, 


Belfast Horticultural Society. — May 21. Among the flowers, the tulips 
were, of course, at this season the greatest attraction. The anemones 
and ranunculuses were not equal to what we have seen on former occa- 
sions. Some tender heaths, of great beauty, were exhibited, which very 
deservedly obtained a prize. The China roses were particularly remark- 
able for their rarity; some very uncommon kinds having been produced 
for the first time. Many of the pelargoniums were new varieties, and they 
presented a splendid appearance: as a whole, they were decidedly a mag- 
nificent collection, and prove what skill and care were used by the compe- 
titors. The double stock gillyflowers were not fine. Two beautiful plants 
of the cactus tribe excited the admiration of the meeting: Cactus trium~- 
phans (the finer of the two by far), Mr. Scott ; and Céreus speciosissimus , 


750 Provincial Horticultural Societies : — Ireland. 


Mr. Anderson. The fruits presented some ripe strawberries (from the 
gardens of the Marquess of Donegall and of Mr. Brownlow), ripe grapes, 
full-grown green peas, carrots, turnips, cauliflowers, and asparagus; the 
last of a very superior description. A very fine cucumber (measuring 
about 24 in. inlength), which was raised by Mr. Scott (Ormeau). (WVorth- 
ern Whig, May 23.) 

Dublin Horticultural Society.— April 30. The display of rare and beau~_ 
teous productions of the garden afforded convincing proof that horticul- 
ture is making rapid strides in this country. Amongst the plants exhibited, 
we were particularly struck with the beauty of two specimens of rhodo- 
dendroen, hybrids between the arboreum and catawbiénse. This splendid 
variety never before flowered in this country. They were sent from 
Mr. Toole’s nursery, Cullen’s Wood. From the College Botanical Gardens, 
among other remarkable plants, we perceived the Fuchsia globosa, the 
Anthocércis littérea, the Petunia pheenicea, and the Acacia verticillata. 
The botanical garden at Glasnevin also contributed a number of fine exotic 
plants; and others were sent by the gentry of the neighbourhood. (Warder, 
May 4.) 

June 18. An exceedingly fine and well-grown specimen of Petunia 
phenicea, and a great variety of fine calceolarias sent in by Mr. Scott, 
gardener to R. Williams, Esq., Drumcondra Castle. Mr. Scott’s fine 
striped seedling georgina (Scott’s defiance), which obtained the prize last 
autumn, was exhibited in flower. Two vines, in pots, bearing large bunches 
of ripe grapes, raised from layers this year; also some enormous cucum- 
bers, sent in by Mr. Nevin, from the chief secretary’s gardens, together 
with the beautiful Campanula laciniata and pilla, Lapeyrousia speciosa, 
&c.,and an uncommonly fine plant of Céreus speciosissimus, in flower and 
fruit. Two very fine baskets of pelargoniums, from the Royal Dublin 
Society’s Botanic Gardens. A very beautiful variety of the Indian cress 
Tropz‘olum majus, introduced from Constantinople ; it was sent in from the 
garden of Charles Hamilton, Esq., Ham Wood. (Jdid., June 22.) 

August 8. The following splendid exotics were sent in from the College 
Botanic Gardens, not for competition, but to ornament the stages, viz., 
Céreus speciosissimus, Chirdnia trinérva, Latania borbénica, Petunia phe- 
nicea, Kalosénthes coccinea and versicolor, Angelonia salicarizfélia Alstroe- 
méria Pelegrina, Hedjchium maximum, Vinca rosea alba, Amaryllis pulve- 
rulénta, A. purpurascens, Nierembérgia gracilis. Among the miscellaneous 
articles sent in to ornament the stages, were a collection of annual plants, 
upwards of thirty in number, of new and beautiful kinds, from the gardens 
of the Right Hon. William Saurin, and a branch of white currants, of 
extraordinary fertility, from Mr. E. Murphy’s garden, at Killester; also a 
fine basket of ericas from the garden of Samuel White, Esq., Killakee. 

Dublin Fruit and Flower Exhibition. — Aug. 8. Mr. Nevin, gardener to 
the chief secretary, exhibited specimens of Gladiolus natalénsis and Escal- 
lonia montevidénsis, which were much admired. Two baskets of heath were 
very beautiful, and several of the plants from private gardens; we were 
glad to see herbaceous plants in the exhibition, as they have been too long 
neglected. (Dublin Times, Aug. 11.) 

Waterford Horticultural Society. — April 25. This was the first show, 
andthe display of every production of the garden and the green-house was 
superior to anything that we could have expected at this early and hitherto 
unfavourable season, and we are convinced that many, like ourselves, almost 
forgot the period of the year, while looking on the quantity of pines, grapes, 
strawberries, apples, &c., in full perfection of ripeness, surrounded and 
ornamented with full-blown roses, mignonette, pelargoniums, tulips, ane- 
mones, hyacinths, auriculas, &c. &c. (Waterford Mirror, April 27.) 

Aug.10. So gorgeous a collection of fruit was never before seen within 
our precincts, nor probably within a large district around. Pine-apples 


Obituary. 751 


and grapes brought down by Mr. Smith, the gardener of Arthur Keily, Esq., 
of Ballysaggartmore, deserve particular mention, having been a theme of 
general admiration for their enormous size and surprising perfection. 
Among the botanical productions, we noticed a most splendid Yécca glori- 
Osa, with one thousand blossoms, from the Waterford Nursery ; a very fine 
Yucca filamentosa, from Miss Davis; AmarYllis supérba, with other select 
plants, from Woodstock ; erythrinas, &c., from Curraghmore. The pines, 
peaches, melons, grapes, &c., were truly splendid, from Curraghmore, 
Ballysaggartmore, Mount Congreve, &c., with a delightful profusion of 
georginas, carnations, &c. (Jbid., Aug. 12.) 

Novice TO THE SECRETARIES OF ProvincraL HorticuLTuRAL So- 
ciETIES.— The above notices for the year 1833 are, no doubt, incomplete ; 
partly because we are obliged to go to press early in October, but chiefly 
because notices of several provincial societies have not been sent us. In 
our February Number, however, we intend to publish a supplement to the 
present article, in which will be included all the notices sent us between 
the middle of October and January 1. 1834. As we should wish to render 
these notices complete, we request the Secretaries of Provincial Societies 
to look over this article, and the list, on the cover, of papers received, and 
to supply us with what is wanting. We are most anxious to show to the 


world how very generally a taste for gardening is diffused over the country. 
—JW.L. 


Art. [X. Obituary. 


Diep, at the Norwich Nursery, on the 4th of September last, Ars, 
Sarah Mackie, aged 59 years. — This estimable person was the widow 
of Mr. William Aram Mackie, and for the last sixteen years has conducted 
the business of this extensive fruit and forest tree nursery, with the design 
of preserving the trade and its connections for her rising family. In the 
performance of this arduous task she was singularly active and exemplary, 
and her exertions have been for many years attended with great success, 
though her hopes with regard to the succession of her two elder sons 
were painfully disappointed. Both were cut off just as they entered the 
period of manhood. The first (Edward Mackie) perished by an accident, 
while shooting wildfowl at the mouth of the Tees; and the second 
(George Mackie) fell a victim to the small-pox, after vaccination. Not- 
withstanding these bereavements, Mrs. Mackie still continued the business 
with unabated attention for the benefit of her surviving children, until 
September last, when she was herself removed, after a very short illness. 
This nursery is an example of the rapid course of modern improvement, 
for persons only lately dead could remember the whole extent of the 
ground and a mile beyond it an entire heath, only used as a sheepwalk. 
Yet this spot, which was taken into cultivation about sixty years ago, has 
been rendered the centre from which a great part of Norfolk and Suffolk 
have been supplied with the numerous plantations which have so much 
improved this district. This change took place through the exertions of 
Mr. John Mackie, with whom the nursery originated, and from whom it 
descended, in 1797, to his two sons, William Aram and John Mackie, by 
whom it was conducted with great spirit and success, until their respective 
deaths in 1817 and 1818, when it fell into the hands of Mrs. Sarah Mackie, 
whose death we have now to record. The Norwich Nursery will now be 
carried on by Mr. Frederick Mackie, the eldest surviving son, who has 
just added to the former stock the entire collection of succulent plants 
lately belonging to Mr. Thomas Hitchen of Norwich, which has been highly 
esteemed for the great rarity and beauty of the plants of which it consists. 
—J.G. Norwich, Nov. 1. 1833. 


INDEX TO BOOKS REVIEWED AND NOTICED. 


GENERAL SUBJECT. 


Arcana of Science and Art, noticed, 450. 
Bakewell’s (F. C.) Philosophical Conversations, 
announced, 96. F 
Banks’s Introduction to the Study of English 
Botany, noticed, 453. 

Baxter’s Illustratiens of the Genera of British 
Flowering Plants, noticed, 611. 

Caledonian Gardener’s Magazine, ann. 460. 

Castle’s Synopsis of Systematic Botany, as ap- 
plied to the Plants used in Medicine, 609. 

De Candolle’s Physiologie Végétale, not. 355. 

Forbes’s Hortus Woburnensis, noticed, 601. 

General Observations on Vegetation, translated 
from Mirbel, noticed, 452. 

Henderson’s Miller’s Gardener’s Dictionary, 
noticed, 684. 

Jrish Gardener’s and Farmer's Magazine, an- 
nounced, 611, 612; noticed, 686. 

Jardine’s Naturalist’s Library, announced, 96. 

Lindley’s Ladies’ Botany, announced, 611. 

Lindley’s Nixus Plantarum, noticed, 608. 

Loudon’s Cottage Manual, with an Appendix, 
noticed, 342. 

Macgillivray’s Travels and Researches of Alex- 
ander von Humboldt, noticed, 353. 

Main’s Catechism of Gardening, announced, 
695. 

Main’s Illustrations of Vegetable Physiology, 
noticed, 454. b 

Mirror of Literature, Amusement, Instruction, 
&e., noticed, 450. 

Mudie’s Guide to the Observing of Nature, 
noticed, 353. : i : 

Murray’s Manual of Experiments in Chemistry, 
noticed, 606. 

Nees von Essenbeck’s Genera Plantarum Flore 
Germanice, noticed, 451. 

Orr and Smith’s edition of Miller’s Gardener’s 
Dictionar3,-ennounced, 695. 08 

Poiteau and Vilmorin’s Le Bon Jardinier, no- 
ticed, 360. 

Rennie’s Alphabet of Botany, noticed, 354, 

Royle’s Illustrations of the Botany and other 
Branches of the Natural History of the Hi- 
malayan Mountains, and of the Flora of 
Cashmere, announced, 460 ; noticed, 691. 

Sowerby’s small edition of English Botany, 
noticed, 611. 

Williams’s Vegetable World, noticed, 352. 

Young Gardener’s Monthly Magazine, an- 
nounced, 460. 


FLORICULTURE. 

Baumann’s Monographie de les Camellia de 
Bollwiller, noticed, 361. ; 

Bentham’s Labiatarym Genera et Species, an- 
nounced, 611. 

Curtis’s Botanical Magazine, reviewed, 104. 235. 
363. 483. 616. 701. 

EEdwards’s Botanical Register, reviewed, 104. 
235. 363. 483. 616. 701. : 

Warrison’s Floricultural Cabinet, noticed, 352. 

Henslow’s Researches on a Monstrosity of the 
eommon Mignonette, noticed, 457. 4 | 

Hogg’s Supplement to his Practical Treatise on 
the Culture of the Tulip, Auricula, Ranun- 
culus, Georgina, &c., ann. 461. ; noticed’ 688. 

Hooker’s Botanical Miscellany, noticed, 34y. 

Hooker’s new and improved edition of Curtis’s 
Botanical Magazine, noticed, 350. 

Hooker’s Journal of Botany, announced, 695. 

Hooker’s 5th Volume of the English Flora, 
descriptive of the British Cryptogamia, except 
the Fungi, noticed, 350. 

Horticultural Journal and Florists’ Register, 
noticed, 456. i 

Lindley’s Genera and Species of Orchideous 
Plants, the Third Part, announced, 611, 


Loddiges’s Botanical Cabinet, reviewed, 104. 
235. 363. 483. 616. 701. 

Marshall’s Contribution to a Natural and Eco- 
nomical History of the Coco-nut Tree, no- 
ticed, 353. 

Maunda's Botanic Garden, rev. 104. 457. 591, 
701; the bordered edition, 611. 701. 

Rennie’s Magazine of Botany, noticed, 351, 

Rivers and Son’s Catalogue of the Roses culti- 
vated at the Sawbridgeworth Nurseries, no- 
ticed, 458. 

Salm Dyck’s Monographia Generum et Specie- 
rum Aloes et Mesembryanthemi, Iconibus 
illustrata, announced, 460. 

Sweet’s British Flower Garden, reviewed, 104. 
235. 363. 485. 616. 701. 


’Tyso’s Catalogue of Flower Roots, Plants, &c., 


noticed, 612. 
Wyatt’s dried Specimens of Marine Plants, an- 
nounced, 612. 


ARBORICULTURE. 


Ballard’s Treatise on the Nature of Trees, no- 
ticed, 687. 

Buchanan’s Selection of hardy ornamental 
Trees, Shrubs, and Herbaceous Plants, no- 
ticed, 612. 

Donald’s Catalogue of his Trees, Shrubs, and 
Plants, for Sale, announced, 612. 

Harrison’s Gardener’s and Forester’s Record, 
noticed, 455. 


HORTICULTURE. 


Doyle’s Practical Gardening, noticed, 353. 

Jacquin’s Monographie compléte du Melon, re- 
viewed, 356. 

Kenrick’s New American Orchardist, not. 354. 

Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural So- 
ciety, reviewed, 89. 

Prince’s Pomological Manual, announced, 612. 

Smith’s Treatise on the Culture of Cucumbers, 
Melons, &c., noticed, 692. 

The Transactions of the Horticultural Society 
of London, reviewed, 82. 344. 

Verhandlungen des Vereins zur Beforderung 
des Gartenbaues in den Koniglich Preus- 
sichen Staaten. Transactions of the Society 
for the Advancement of Gardening in the 
Royal Prussian States, reviewed, 94. 592, 


AGRICULTURE. 

Agronome, Journal mensuel d’ Agriculture, &c. 
noticed, 362. 

Drummond's Report of the Exhibition of Agri- 
cultural Productions, &c., reviewed, 447. 

Lance’s Cottage Farmer, noticed, 610. 

Lioyd’s Practical Treatise on Agriculture, no- 
ticed, 459. 

Porter’s Tropical Agriculturist, announced, 612. 

Verhandlungen der K. K. Landwirthschatts- 
Gesellschaft in Wien, und Auftake Vermisch- 
ten Okonomischen Inhaltes, &c. Transactions 
of the Imperial and Royal Agricultural So- 
ciety of Vienna, noticed, 362. 


ARCHITECTURE. 

Jopling’s Practice of Isometrical Perspective, 
noticed, 450. 

Loudon’s Encyclopedia of Cottage, Farm, and 
vale Architecture and Furniture, not. 449. 

13. 

Loudon’s Magazine on Architecture, Building, 

and Furnishing, announced, 461. 


° DOMESTIC ECONOMY. 
Payne’s Apiarian’s Guide, noticed, 606. 


GENERAL INDEX. 


Va apie of exotic plants, 245. 580—585. 
scf{dium cancellatum, facts in the economy of, 
and the injurious effects, to pear trees, of the 
parasitic habits of, 328. 332; the primary 
growth of the Acidium suggested to be 
effected in pear trees’ leaves before these have 
burst from their buds, 498; a means to extir- 
pate the Aicf{dium proposed, 499. 

Agriculture. See Smithfield Club. State of agri- 
Culture in Bavaria, in 1828, 411; the appli- 
Cation of steam to, 698. See, besides, Farming. 

Aldine Cottage, notes on, 518. 

Alexander, Mr., the death of, noticed, 384. 

Allen, Mr. Stephen, a notice of the death and 
character of, 256. 

Almond tree, the Prussian culture of, 596. 

Alpine plants, on the culture of, 592. 595, 

Amaryllis Belladénna, the rate of growth in its 
scape, 593; A. revoltita, a decayed bulb of, 
restored, 599. 

America. See United States and Canada. 

Ampeldpsis hederacea, decorative effect of, 566. 

Anona Cherimolia, facts and a query on, 631. 

Auchincruive noticed, 9. 

Ant, the great black, of Switzerland, 271. 

Anspach, the garden of the palace of, 386. 

Antheum at Brighton, fall of, explained, 613. 

Aphides, the economy and habits of the, more 
particularly of the A‘phis htmuli, 443; facts 
on the economy and habits of A.lanfgera, and 
on means of destroying this insect, 334. to 339. 

Apple, the qualities of the Gravenstein, de- 
tailed, 503; the Kerry pippin noticed, 671. 

Apple tree, the, and its fruit. Mr. Knight’s 
experiments productive of the earliest sight 
of the fruit of seedling apple trees, 86; he re- 
commends the propagation of apple trees from 
cuttings of their roots and layers of their 
branches, 88; effects of pruning as practised 
on apple trees, 371. 688 ; observations on, and 
means proposed for destroying, various kinds 
of blight and insects which infest thé apple 
tree, 334—341; a mode of planting to prevent 
canker accruing to, 503. 650. 

Apricot, the Moorpark, a query on the cause of 
a disease usual to the, 723. 

Arboriculture, the formation of a national 
society for the promotion of, suggested, 551 ; 
the suggestion approved, 714; the connection 
between arboriculture and geology demon- 
strated by lists of different species of trees 
which affect different soils, 291 ; consider- 
ations on the effect in landscape of various 
species of trees cultivated in the arboretum of 
Messrs. Loddiges, 468 ; similar considerations 
on the trees in the arboretum of the London 
Horticultural Society, 472; arboriculture is 
almost impracticable on the coast, see Coast. 
Notes on the state of arboriculture in a part of 
Germany, in 1828, 408. See also Pruning. 

Ardgowan, noticed, 10. 

Asparagus, an account of a new kind of pro- 
tecting frame for forcing, im the open ground, 
346; a mode of forcing asparagus indicated, 
695 ; modes of cultivating asparagus, 323. 627. 

Aster, Chinese, the German varieties of, 690. 

Australia, information on, 342; the safe arrival 
of Mr. Richard Cunningham at Sydney, 470 ; 

Axe, a battering, for felling timber, 297. 

Azalea, a notice of certain Chinese varieties of, 
with variegated flowers, imported by Mr. 
M‘Gilligan, 474; Messrs. Whitley and Co. 


Vou. TX, — No. 47. 


| 


cultivate upwards of 90 hardy kinds of Azalea, 
475 ; a query on cultivating the green-house 
kinds of Azalea, 630. 

Baden, notes and reflections on the gardens, and 
some other objects in, 257; on the villa of 
Christiana, queen of Sweden, at, 264; on the 
burial ground at Baden, 265; on the state of 
horticulture in, 268; on the Black Forest in 
the duchy of, 269. 

Bagatelle, the grounds of, noticed, 133. 

Baker’s, Colonel, residence in Salisbury, 16. 

Balsam, the, may be propagated from cuttings, 
the mode described, 89. 

Bargally, noticed, 13. 

Barganny, noticed, 8. 

Bark-beds, modes of managing, 124. 

Batts, ——, Esq., the residence, of, noticed, 16. 

Bavaria, notes on the principal gardens of, 385. 
398 ; on the state of landscape-gardening in, 
385 ; of floriculture in, 403; of horticulture 
in, 406; of arboriculture in, 408; agriculture 
in, 411; management of towns in, 414. 

Bayle Farm, near Thames Ditton, noticed, 478. 


| Beaconsfield, and the churchyard of, 647. 


Bear Wood, notes on the grounds at, 679. 

Bees, names of some species of plants whose 
flowers are much visited by, 699; suggestions 
on bees and beehives, 273. 606. 

Bel Respiro, the garden of described, 151. 

Berg, notes on the royal chateau of, 393. 

Berthoud’s, M., villa, 139; house, 140. 

Birmingham Botanic Garden, lists of plants 
raised from seeds in, of species additional, ac- 
cording to their names, to those in Loudon’s 
Hortus Britannicus, 111. 240; the names of 
certain tender species of plants which with- 
stood, unprotected, in the Birmingham 
Botanic Garden, the winter of 1832, 465. 

Blackie, Mr. Robert, death and character of, 256. 

ilairquhan, noticed, 8. 

Blight, a notice of the various acceptation of 
the term, 441. See Insects and Fangi. 

Bodin, M. Soulange. See Fromont. 

Borders in which fruit trees grow, evil effects 
of cropping with vegetables, 321. 

Boursault, M., the gardens of, described, 145. 

Box tree, French, habits of, 91; cultivation of 
the box tree in England suggested, 722. 

Breathing places for towns, remarks on, 698. 

Briggs’s villa, notes on, 518. 

Brighton, notice of a magnificent domical con- 
servatory at, 464; fall ofthe Antheum, 613. 
Buildings for gardening and farming purposes, 

Mr. Mallet’s mode of constructing, 193. 

Bulstrode Park, notes on, 648. mis eek tt 

Burnham, notes on the village of; 6565 \ on a 
villa near the village of, 643, 9° "oni" 

Busbridge, near Milford, noticed, 4812— © = 

Cabbages, Mr. Kendal’s method of propagating 
cabbages by slips and cuttings, 226//591; 
M. Furstenau’s treatment of growing™eab- 
bages, 596; soot immixed with the soil to’be 
planted with cabbages preserves them from 
the ravages of the grubs of the family of 
moths, Noctiiade, 572; it does not, 718 ; tacts 
on preparing cabbage for pickling, 90. 

Calcot House, noticed, 670. 

Callidpsis bicolor and Atkinsonzama, a mode of 
inducing these to bear their blossoms nearer 
the ground than they usually do, 585, 

Cally House and grounds, noticed, 7. _ 

Canada, Lower, the state of gardening in, 159; 


3) GI 


754 


the prospects of gardeners who may purpose 
to emigrate thither, 164. 

Canker, on thecure of, in young fruit trees, 503 ; 
a mode of planting adopted to prevent canker 
in the apple tree, 650. f 

Caoutchouc, a mode of dissolving in pyrolig- 
neous ether, 243, 

Caprington Castle, noticed, 10. 

Cardoon, the, its uses in France, 93. 

Carlsruhe, notes on the park and gardens at, 
259; on the public gardens at, 262; on the 
public English garden, 263; on the garden of 
the Margravine Amelia, 263; the principal 
cemetery at, 265; the botanic garden at, 266. 

Carnation, Mr. May’s mode of cultivating the, 
845; do iron, stakes poison the roots of the 
plants of carnations to which they are placed 
contiguous? 3878; an enquiry for a black 
flowered carnation, 599 ; remarks by Mr, Hogg 
on laying carnations, 690; true clove, pink, 
yellow carnation, and yellow pink, 631. 

Cassia multiglanduldsa Jac., hardihood of, 581. 

Castle Dykes, noticed, 11. 

Castle Semple, noticed, 11. 

Celery, Italian, its qualities, 671. _ . 

Cereuses, the fragrance of the fruit of, 475. 

Chair, a, invented by Mr. Saul, for a garden; 
with remarks on the principles involved in 
designing of chairs for the same purposes, 541. 

Chalybeate spring, a, in Dorton Park, 700. 

Chantilly, the park of, noticed, 131.139. _ 

Chelsea Botanic Garden, Indian and Chinese 
plants received at the, presented by the Hon. 
E. 1. Company to the, 615. 

Chemistry in gardening, 122. 285. 287. 376. 
502; and remarks on accenting the technical 
terms of chemistry, 122. 376. 500. 627. See 
Electricity and Radiation. ) i 

Cherry tree and its fruit: on pruning and train- 
ing the morello cherry tree, 73; the relative 
periods of ripening, and relative qualities, of 
the early purple Guigne, the early May, and 
the May duke kinds of cherry, 86; notes on 
the cherry gardens in the Vale of Mont- 
morency, 129; the progress of the formation 
of the seed within the nut of a cherry tree, 
531; considerations on sowing cherry stones, 
596; low price of cherries at Reading, 668; 
kirsch-wasser from them suggested, 668. 

Chestnut tree, the Spanish (Castanea vésca L.), 
the mode and result of kiln-drying the nuts 
of the, in Cevennes, France, 93 ; notes on the 
quality of the wood of the, 550. 593. 

Chimonanthus fragrans, on cultivating, 630. _ 

Chinese, their method of propagating fruit 
trees, 290; a criticism on Mr. Main’s observ- 
ations on Chinese scenery, 714; a criticism 
on Mr. Main’s notes on the practices of the 
Chinese in relation to tea, 715. 

Chrysanthemum, Chinese, the late Mr. Ha- 
worth’s new arrangement of the double- 
flowered kinds of, 218; a notice of the small 
brown flowered variety very recently. intro- 
duced to England, 727. 

Churchyards: notes on the churchyard near 
Hedsor House, 646; on that at Arley, near 
Kidderminster, 646 ; on that at Beaconsfield, 
647; notes on a churchyard at Reading, and 
a description of the structure of a certain 
kind of tomb adopted in it, 66. _ Dee 

Cities, a list of the plants which will thrive in, 
62 ; names of some species of trees which will 
live in, 118. 

Claremont, noticed, 478. 

Cleghorn’s nursery, Mr. Robert, see Montreal. 

Cliefden House and gardens, notes on, 645. 

Climates, its influence on vegetation, 436, 709. 

Closeburn Hall, noticed, 14. 

Coast, the effects of the wind on the, on trees, 
547; a list of trees and shrubs which will 
grow on the, 550; an enumeration of the dif- 
ficulties which oppose the decorating of coast 
grounds with trees and shrubs, 715. 

Coccinélla septempunctata, habits of, 445. 

Cockscomb, the dimensions of a large, 198. 

Coffee tree of America, see Gymnocladus. 


GENERAL 


INDEX. 


Coley Park passingly noticed, 669. 

Commelina ceeléstis, modes of cultivating, 231. 

Conservatory, a magnificent domical, 464. 

Cork tree, see Oak. 

Corn, British kinds of, the obtaining improved 
varieties of, by hybridisement suggested, 125; 
benefit and injury to corn from the rook, see 
Rook. 

Corn, Indian, Cobbett’s, the results of three 
years’ experience in cultivating, in Lanca- 
shire, 76; the best mode of malting maize or 
Indian corn enquired for, 380. 

Cottagers, see Labourers. Cottage gardens 
in the west of Scotland, see Scotland. 

Covent Garden market, the price of garden 
products sold in, and observations on the 
successive prospects in gardening policy, 127. 
246. 381. 511. 634. 724; the capacity of mea- 
sures used in Covent Garden market, 350. 

Cratz ‘gus, see Hawthorn. 

Crocuses, an eulogy on, 699. 

Crosslee Cottage, noticed, 14. 

Cucumber (Cucumis sativus Z.) the germen of 
the, cannot be impregnated with the pollen of 
the melon, 119, 374; a description of a pit 
suited to the culture of early cucumbers, and 
ofamode of cultivating them, 71; Mr. Smith’s 
mode of cultivating the cucumber, 693; the 
results of an instance of growing the cucum- 
ber in heath mould, 567. See also Melon; 
notes on the Cucumis flexudsus, 656. 

Culzean Castle, noticed, 18. 

Currant trees, modes of removing aphides and 
the honey dew from, 338, 339. 

Cypress, the deciduous, facts on, 96. 

Daisy plants from turf, on extirpating, 378. 

Dalscairth, some objects at, noticed, 12. 

Delphinium grandifldrum, and D. élegans fldre 
pléno, varieties of, described, 123. 

Denham Lodge, notes on, 648. 

Devonshire, lists of plants which winter in the 
open air of, 581. 

Ditton Park, and gardens at, notes on, 650, 

Dorton House and Dorton Park noticed, 700. 

Doubdlat, M., the gardens and grounds of, 137. 

Drayton Green, Mrs, Lawrence’s villa at, 517. 

Dropmore Gardens, showy flowered plants in, 
560; species of Pinus added to the pinetum 
in, 560; strictures on the gardens, 643. 

Drumlanrig, noticed, 1. 

Duckweed, see Lémne. 

Education, national, remarks on, 664. 696. 

Egg plant, the varieties of, and the synonymes 
of the name of, the, 81. 

Eglinton Castle, noticed, 10. 

Kichthal, Baren, the chateau of, noticed, 394, 

Electricity, that of nature, and its connection 
with magnetism and with the other grand 
natural phenomena, 179. 

Elms, the, in the Champs Elysées and those in 
St. James’s Park, are they of the same species ? 
630; an answer, in part, with information on 
elms, 720; the origin of the variety of elm 
which has pendulous branches, 597. 

Elysée Bourbon, the Garden of the, noticed, 145. 
Emigration, on the, of gardeners to the United 
States of America, 29. 32; to Canada, 164. 

Englefield House, the kitchen garden at, 670. 

Engrafting, various modes of performing, 39; 
recipe for making wax for engrafting, 42. 

Epinal, the grounds and gardens at, 137. 

Epsom nursery, notes on the, 482; a selection 
of the rare and interesting plants which have 
flowered in the Epsom nursery from March 
to July, 1833, 489; Mr. Henry Laundy, of the 
Woodbridge nursery, is the author of the 
strictures on the Epsom nursery, which were 
published in vol. vi. p.357,, under the signa- 
ture of Aristides, 712. 

Erica, causes which induce the presence of 
parasitic Fungi, termed mildew, on the leaves 
of Cape ericas, and modes of banishing them 
from these, 244; criticisms, facts, and sug- 
gestions on cultivating, 624; Mr. Forbes’s 
practice in exposing Cape heaths to the open 
air of Britain, during summer and autumn, 


GENERAL 


626; and the result of planting a group of 
species of Cape heaths in the open soil and 
air of Cornwall, 584. 

Ermenonville, noticed, 132. 

Erskine, a fine house at, noticed, 11. 

Esher churchyard, notes on, 478; Esher Place, 
the residence of J. Spicer, Esq., noticed, 479. 

Ettlingen, notes on the kitchen garden of the 
old castle of, 268; notes on the villa and gar- 
dens of Watthalden, near Ettlingen, 260. 

Farming, the condition of in stated parts of 
England, 514; Mr. Lance’s proposal to supply 
instruction in the sciences which explain the 
processes of nature in farming, 615; Mr. 
Mallet’s economical mode of constructing 
farm buildings, 193. 

Hering machine, a very cheap one, described, 

Fishes, gold and silver, on managing, 723. 

Floricultural and botanical notices of plants, 
104, 255. 363. 483. 616. 701. 

Floriculture, notes on the state of, in a part of 
Germany, in 1828, 403; considerations by 
Dr. Lindley, in relation to floriculture, 438. 

Florists and amateurs of flowers, the establish- 
ment of a metropolitan society of, stated, 
462. For florists’ societies, and floral societies, 
see Horticultural Societies, and Metropolitan. 

Forest Hill, and gardens at, notes on, 651. 

Fountains for gardens, figures and descriptions 
of, 208; strictures on fountains generally, with 
a design for a fountain, 558. 

Frame, a protecting, for use in forcing aspara- 
gus, &c., in the open ground, 346; plans of 
arched iron frames for bestriding walks, and 
for sustaining roses, georginas, and other 
plants to be trained over them, 466. 

France, the Conductor’s tour through a part of, 
129. Seealso Trees, Mirbel, and Rohault. 

Frogmore Lodge, notes on, 651. 

Fromont on the Seine, the villa and exotic 
nursery of M. Soulange Bodin, described, 141. 

Fruit, a query on packing, for travelling, 723. 

Fruit trees, Mr. T. A. Knight’s modes of pro- 
longing the duration of valuable kinds of, 86. 
See also the various kinds of fruit trees under 
their English generic name. The practice of 
disbudding much avails in training, and anti- 
cipates pruning, of fruit trees, 671. 

Fachsza gracilis, nearly hardy in Yorkshire, 98 ; 
notes on F. globdsa, 475; and ona very pleas- 
ing kind, presumed to be a variety of F. gra- 
cilis, 476. 

Fungi, various species (some of them constitut- 
ing the “ mildew” of unscientific persons) of, 
figured and noticed ; parasitic upon the herb- 
age of plants, shrubs, and trees, 325 to 332; a 
notice of a species of Fungus, termed a mil- 
dew, parasitic on the leaves of Cape ericas, 
and of the causes of, and means to prevent, 
its appearance, 244. 

Gardeners, certain volumes in Dr. Lardner’s 
Cabinet Cyclopedia useful to gardeners, 
named, 375; notification of a society at 
Guernsey, for purchasing and circulating 
books on the art and science of horticulture, 
376. See also the index to books reviewed 
and noticed, 752. Mechanics’ Institutes and 
lectures recommended to gardeners, 376; the 
disabilities experienced by young gardeners in 
acquiring professional and general knowledge, 
165. 173; remarks on the advantages which 
would result in not occupying gardeners at 
work longer on a Saturday than artisans are 
occupied, 427; considerations commending 
to young gardeners the improvement of their 
professional and general knowledge, 432; a 
method of keeping food warm, so that a 
working gardener may lose as little time as 
possible at breakfast, 435 ; hints to gardeners, 
incentive to their educating themselves in a 
knowledge of English grammar, and of other 
subjects of essentially useful knowledge, 536 ; 
means by which a young gardener may rapidly 
improve himself in his profession, 477; 
young gardeners advised to exercise them- 


3 ¢ 


755 


selves in landscape gardening; by means of 
miniature symbols, 749; the importance to 
gardeners of their acquiring the earliest in- 
formation of improvements in gardening, 
491; on the fraudulent practices of gardening 
authors, 116. 492; pecuniary disabilities of 
working gardeners, 623; the prospects in the 
United States of America to gardeners who 
would emigrate thither, 29. 32; in Canada, 
164; the decay of noblemen’s places should 
not discourage gardeners, 515. 

Gardener’s house, a design for a, to be situated 
on the north side of a walled kitchen garden, 
46; Mr. Mallet’s economical mode of con- 
structing houses for gardeners, 193. 

Gardénia radicans, a mode of propagating and 
cultivating, 377. 

Gardens for the use of pensioners and persons 
affected with hypochondriasis, &c., 5685 
strictures on provincial botanical and horti- 
cultural gardens, 463 ; remarks on laying out 
flower gardens, 60; a plan for a flower garden, 
62. On laying out gardens, see Landscape- 
gardening, 599; see also Tour. Mr. Mallet’s 
economical mode of constructing the build- 
ings required in gardens, 193. 

Gas, carbonic acid, considerations on the action 
of, on the processes of vegetation, 709. 

Gate, Cottam’s cheap iron gate for fields, 81. 
Germany, notes and reflections on gardens and 
other objects, inspected in 1828 in, 257. 385. 

Gilston Castle, noticed, 7. 

Glastonbury thorn, the, facts on, 123. 

Gleditschéa hérrida for hedges, 595. 

Godalming, notes on a mansion and its grounds 
at, 479; on villas in, 480; on objects seen in 
a journey from London to Godalming, 477 to 
480; in one from Godalming to Epsom, 482. 

Goitre, facts on, 27. 

Goldielee, noticed, 12. 

Gooseberry, the kinds of, which, in 1832, pro- 
duced the heaviest berries, 98. For those of 
1835, see the shows of Horticultural Societies. 

Grape vine and fruit; a mode of producing a 
successive supply of grapes through the year, 
70; valuable remarks in relation to the cul- 
ture of the grape vine, 321; a Prussian prac- 
tice to increase the productiveness of grape 
vines, and one to protect them from spring 
frosts, 592; the characteristics of the Cannon 
Hall muscat grape, 348; considerations on 
the importation in 1833 of grapes from the 
south of Europe, 699. 

Gray the poet, information on, 528. 

Gunnersbury House, park, and gardens, notes 
on, 518; on a villa between Gunnersbury and 
Brentford, 520. 

Gymnécladus canadénsis, the, described, 298. 
Hailstorm at Edgbaston on May 9, 1833, 464; 
hailstorm and hurricane at Lancaster, 465. 
Hall Barns, notes on, 647; Little Hall Barns, 647. 

Hampton Court Palace and Gardens, 478. 

Hand glasses, a cheap mode of making, 446; 
and forms of, 446. 580; a query on square 
blown bell glasses, 628. 

Hannayfield, noticed, 12. ? 

Haworth, A. H., Esq., the death, and facts in 
the life of, 635—640 ; his collections of plants, 
&c., noticed, 614. ; 

Hawthorn, the fittest of plants for live hedges 
and fences, 495, 496; the result of some ex- 
periments made to expedite the germination 
of seeds of hawthorn, 496; enquiry on an 
evergreen species of hawthorn, 496; this 
shown to be, probably, the Cratez‘gus stipu- 
lAcea, 630; between 70 and 80 sorts of Cra- 
te‘gus are cultivated by the Messrs. Lod- 
diges, 468; the hawthorn, in hedges, on the 
coast, is less injured by winds and spray from 
the sea than most woody plants, 717; the 
origin of a variety of the common hawthorn, 
with pendulous branches, 597. 

Heating. See Water, hot. 

Heartseases, Messrs. Young’s collection of, 482 ; 
Messrs. Brown’s, 524.; Mr. Hogg’s, 689. 

Hedsor House and grounds, notes on, 646, 


2 


INDEX. 


756 GENERAL INDEX. 


Heppe, Madame, the gardens of, noticed, 397, 
Hickory nut tree, facts on the black, 712. 


Hitchen, Mr, Thomas, at Norwich, an enumer- |' 


ation of the species and varieties of succu- 
lent plants lately possessed by, 114; now pos- 
sessed by Mr. Frederick Mackie, 751. 
Hoe, a kind of, derived from Jersey, 473. 
Hogg, Mure, death, and facts in the life of, 128. 
Holly, effects of pruning on the, 371; the wood 


Hybridisement cannot be effected between the 
melon and the cucumber, 119; a portion of 
Professor Herschel’s experiments on hybri- 
dising, 598; M. Bosse’s hybridising of several 
kinds of passion flower, 599; the origination 
of new varieties of corn by, 125. 

Hydrangea horténsis, a remarkably large plant 
of, 586 ; on inducing H. horténsis to produce 
blue flowers, 95. 


of the silver striped leaved holly is whiter | Impostor, the, Gern, facts on, 230. 491; on an 


than that of the green leaved, 371. 

Honey dew, facts on, 325. 339. 

Horses, the healing effect of the Barbadoes 
naphtha on certain diseases of, 300; farming 
horses fed on steeped barley, 380. . 

Horticultural Society of London, reports of its 
exhibitions and proceedings in Regent street, 
197. 247. 382. 507, 632, 725; strictures on the 
public exhibitions at the Society’s garden, 
509. 511; notes on the garden, 234, 471. 

Horticultural Societies, provincial, their ex- 
hibitions. 


ENGLAND: Bedfordshire, 729; Birmingham | 


botanical and horticultural, 462. 740; Bris- 
tol and Clifton, 250. 463, 733; Buckingham, 
729; Bury St. Edmunds, 251. 739; Cam- 
bridge florists’, 729, 730; Cambridgeshire 
horticultural, 729, 730; Chelmsford florists’, 
733 5 Cheltenham horticultural and floral, 
733, 734; Chichester, 251; Deritend and 
Bordesley floral and horticultural, 740; 
Devon and Exeter botanical and horticul- 
tural, 731; Devon and Exeter floricultural, 
731; Devon, north, 732; Devon, royal, and 
Cornwall botanical and horticultural, 731 ; 
Diss, 737; Doncaster, Retford, and Baw- 
try, 741; Dorking, 740; Durham, south, 
and Cleveland, 732; Finchley florists’, 737 ; 
Guernsey, 744; Hereford, 734; Hexham 
botanical and horticultural, 739 ; Hull floral 
and horticultural, 252. 742; Huntingdon, 
248. 735; Ipswich, 250; Jersey agricultural 
and horticultural, 745 ; Lancaster floral and 
horticultural, 735; Lancaster pink and ra- 
nunculus, 735; Leeds exhibition of carna- 
tions and picotees, 742; Leicestershire fto- 
ricultural, 737; Lichfield florists’, 739; 
Liverpool floral and horticultural, 736; 
London, north, see Finchley ; Lynn, 737; 
Manchester botanical and horticultural, 
249. 736; Manchester floral and horticul- 
tural, 248; Morpeth florists’, 739; North- 
amptonshire united, 250. 738; Norwich, 
737 ; Newcastle botanical and horticultural, 
739; Newick, 251; Rochdale floral and 
horticultural, 249; Ross, 735; Sheffield, 
742; Stockport floral and horticultural, 
730; Taunton and West Somerset, 250. 
732; Tunbridge Wells, 735; Wallingford 
royal Berkshire, 729; West Riding, 742; 
Whitby, 98. 253; Whitehaven, 730; Wilts 
and general, 251. 741; Wolverhampton 
horticultural and floricultural, 739; Wor- 
cestershire horticultural and floral, 252. 
741; York floral and horticultural, 743; 
York florists’, 744; York horticultural, 252, 
IRELAND: Belfast, 256; May 21, 1833, 749; 
Dublin fruit and flower, 750; Dublin hor- 
ticultural, 750; Waterford, 751. 
ScorLanp: Aberdeenshire, 254. 745; An- 
drews, St., horticultural and floral, 747; 
Ayrshire horticultural and agricultural, 
745; Caledonian, 253. 747; at the experi- 
mental garden at Inverleith, 253; Edin- 
burgh, 748; Cupar, 747; Dumfries and 
Galloway, 254. 746; Dundee, 255; Fal- 
kirk, 256; Glasgow, 748; Melrose, Selkirk, 
and Galashiels, 255; North British profes- 
sional gardeners, 254; Perthshire, royal, 
255; Renfrewshire, west, 255; Stirling, 
256. 749. 
_ Wates: Glamorgan and Monmouthshire, 
745; Swansea and Neath, 745. 
Hungerford Market, a notice of, 512. 
Hunnemannia fumariefolia increases by deci- 
duous seeds, 159, 


impostor professing landscape gardening, 
491. 

Insects, by what means can the ravages of, on 
oak trees, be prevented? 246; a notice of 
Messrs. ‘aylor and Robinson’s newly in- 
vented liquid mixture for destroying insects, 
246. 695 ; the results of trials of its effects, 
697; various recipes for destroying various 
species of insects, 334 to 341; a check to the 
caterpillars of the Phalz‘na brumata minor, 
95 ; a notice of theravages of the Yponomeitta 
padéllaLatr,,and some suggestions for preserv- 
ing plants from the ravages of insects generally 
570. 573; facts on the cuckoo-spit insect, 574 ; 
facts on the oat grub, 505; and Tipula cor- 
nicina, 506; facts on the turnip beetle, 504, 
505. 631; the effects of the attack of the 
Curculiénidz on turnips, 504; of the Tri- 

he‘na pronuba on turnips, 504; on cab- 

ages, 572; possibly on onions, 573 ; soot dug 
into the soil preserves from its attacks, 572 ; 
it does not, 718; Mr. Dennis’s mode of 
collecting the insects which ravage the 
flowers of georginas, 476; Tenthrédo ery- 
throcéphala is very injurious to the species 
of the genus Pinus, 599; what is the best 
method of destroying millepedes ? 629; Mr. 
Smith’s mode of destroying woodlice, 692. 
See, besides, Aphides. 

Jardine Hall, noticed, 4. 

Kilkerran, noticed, 9. 

Kirk- Alloway Cottage, noticed, 13, 

Kirkmichael House, noticed, 4. 

Kneller Hall, 523. 712. 

Knevett's, Mr. H., fruit garden, notes on, 521. 

Knight, T. A., Esq., Mr, Pearson’s remarks on 
the garden of, 17. 

Labelling of plants in gardens, Mr. Mallet’s 
devices for, 43; a formulary for a kind of 
label for aquatic plants, 578 ; to render labels 
durable, 578; labels made of malleable zinc, 
578; metallic labels for plants to be sent 
abroad, 579. 

Labourers’ gardens in Warwickshire, the value 
of the crops from, and their consequences to 
the occupants, 97; the letting of land to la- 
bourers is the best means of benefiting them 
and the proprietors of the land, 369. See Scot- 
land. 

Landscape-gardening in France, the state of, in 
1828, 156; suggestions for the improvement 
of, 157 ; the state of landscape gardening in 
Bavaria in 1828, 385; M. Sckell’s observa- 
tions on the character of the regular and 
natural styles of laying out gardens, and the 
application of these styles, 599; young gar- 
deners advised to exercise themselves in land- 
scape gardening by means of miniature sym- 
bols, 749. See also Arboriculture. 

Langley Park, notes on, 650. 

Larch tree, suggestions on the disease prevail- 
ing in plantations of the, 551; what is the 
nature of the disease in the larch tree called 
pumping ? 722; the larch tree is, in some 
situations and seasons, infested with the 
Céccus laricis, 445 note*; on forming live 
fences with the larch tree, 59; dead fences, 
resembling chevaux de frise, made of young 
larch trees, 662. 

Lavender for yielding oil, the course of culture 
applied to, 651. 

Lavender Cottage, notes on, 662, 

Layers, an improved mode of tongueing of, 
301; a mode of laying a cutting explained, 40. 

Leaves of plants, a mode of taking impressions 
of, 629; additional mformation on, 719. 


GENERAL INDEX. 


Lectures on horticulture, noticed, 376. 436. 462. 
eee the herbage of the, resists rotting, 
4, 

Leonard’s, St., Hill, strictures on the grounds 
about, 652. 

Light: a consideration of the action of light on 
the processes of vegetation, 437. 709; a con- 
sideration of the relations of light to the per- 
fect display of the beauties of form and hue 
in plants and in flowers, 534. 

Lime, Mr, Mallet’s method of burning lime in 
an apparatus for heating by the circulation 
of hot water, 280; a notice of Dr. Ure’s em- 
ployment of the muriate of lime as a means 
of communicating heat, 208. 

Linnzan Society, presented with collections of 
dried plants by the East India Company, 97. 

Liquidambar styraciflua, facts on the, 96. 

Liriodéndron Tulipffera, facts on the, 96. 

London, the neighbourhood of, includes every 
kind of gardening and garden scenery, 477. 
See also Cities, 

Longleat, seat of the Marquess of Bath, 425, 

Love Hill, Langley, notes on, 650. 

Lund botanic garden, plan of, 418. 

Mackie, Mrs. Sarah, the death, and facts in the 
life of, stated, 751. 

Mangosteen, what treatment will induce the, 
to fruit in British stoves? 378. See 
Xanthochymus. 


Manures, instances of the effect of, upon an-; 


nual plants, 597; a list of manures, and que- 
ries on their effect on vegetation, 628. 

Marryat, Mrs., a list of the species of plants 
in flower in the gardens of, at Wimbledon, 
on Nov. 16, 1832, 115. 

Marseilles, some account of a floral fair held at, 
with a list of the plants exhibited for sale at, 
aoue notes on some of the nurseries about, 
423. 

Martins and swallows, means to prevent their 
building their nests in places which man may 
wish free from their nests, 719. 

Mary’s, St., Isle, noticed, 7. 

Massena, Marshal, the park of, at Ruelle, no- 
ticed, 143. 

Maidenhead, notes on Wakerill’s nursery at, 
660; on two inns at, 660. 

Manchester, cemetery proposed for, 700. 

Melon, the (Cticumis Mélo L.), the ineffective- 
ness of repeated experiments to impregnate 
the ovules of the melon, with the nature of 
the cucumber, (Cucumis sativus Z.) by apply- 
ing the pollen of male flowers of the cucum- 
ber to the stigmaes of female flowers of the 
melon, 119. 374; facts indicative of the me- 
lon’s affection for water, 591. 698; instances 
of the effect of scils and manures on the 
Barbaresken melon, a sort of Cantalupe, 
597; the results of an instance of growing 
the melon in heath mould, 567; the princi- 
ples of the French course of practice in the 
culture of the melon family, 356; Mr. Knight’s 
mode of cultivating Persian melons, 17; the 
qualities of the striped Hoosainee Persian 
melon described, 182; Mr. Smith’s mode of 
cultivating the melon, 695. 

Metropolitan Society of Florists, &c. 462. 737. 

Michael’s, St., Mount, and the garden, 543, 

Mignonette, (Reseda odorata L.), theories of 
the plan of the structure of the flowers of, 
457. 702; notice of a remarkable monstrosity 
of mignonette, 457; mode of cultivating 
plants of mignonette into perennial ever- 
green bushes, 703; effect of the mode, 252. 
703; a notice of a thick leaved variety of 
mignonette, 702; of another variety, 703. 

Mildew. See Fungi. 

Mirbel’s, Prof., object in visiting England, 699, 

Misletoe, species of trees inhabited by the, 89. 

Mole trap, a, in use near Monmouth, 80. 

Money, Mr. Daniel, the death, and facts on the 
life of, noticed, 580. 

Mont Blanc, remarks on, 276. 

Monteglas, Count, the gardens of, 394. 

Montreal nurseries and gardens described, 160. 


e 

757 

Mortimer street, the residence of the vicar at 
noticed, 672, 2 

Mouse trap, a, for gardens, &c., 579, 

Munches, the features and condition of, 6. 

Munich, notes on the gardens in the neigh- 
bourhood of, 385, 398 ; on the English garden 
at, 398; on the court garden at, 399; on the 
Chinese tower, the Paradise, the Tivoli, &c. 
at, 399; on the garden of the Glyptothek at 
400 ; on the general cemetery at, 401; on the 
botanic garden at, 403; on the state of flori_ 
culture in the neighbourhood of, 406; on the 
royal kitchen garden at, 406. 

Mushrooms, the mode of cultivating, in use 
about Paris, 130; Mr. Elles’s mode of pro- 
ducing mushrooms in plenty, in the open air. 
from June to November, 298; Mr. Patrick’s 
mode of cultivating mushrooms, 527; means 
of cultivating the mushroom indicated, 695 ; 
Mr. Greenshields prefers fire heat to dung 
heat for forcing mushrooms, 672; Mr. Mal. 
let’s economical mode of constructing houses 
for mushrooms, 193 ; what is the best method 
of raising mushrooms all the year ? 378. 

Naphtha, its effects on trees and horses, 300. 

Narcissus, the hoop petticoat, facts on its com- 
parative hardihood, 118. 242. 373. 

Nectarine tree; information from Mr. Seymour 
on his mode of training the nectarine, 498 ; a 
proposal to succour peach trees and nectarine 
trees with nitre, a preparation from blood, 
&c., 319; on the evil effects of cropping the 
borders in which fruit trees grow, 341 5a 
notice of the quality of certain seedling nec. 
tarines raised in the garden of T, A. Knight 
Esq., 18. S 

Nets, for gardening should be tanned, 723. 

Neuilly, the park of, noticed, 143, 

Neuviller, the chateau de, described, 144. 

Nicolles, J., the death, and facts in the life of, 
noticed, 128. 

Norman Court, gardens and grounds at, 16. 

Nuremburg, notes on the gardens of Madame 
Heppe, at, 397; on the suburban gardens of 
Nuremburg, 397; on the garden of Michael 
August Stottner, at, 406; M. Falcke’s nur- 
sery at, noticed, 409. 

Nurseries, London, notes on the commercial 
relations of the, 232. Notes on objects in 
the nurseries of Messrs. 

Brown, Slough, 523. Buchanan and Oldroyd, 
Camberwell, 612. 

Chandler, Vauxhall, 343. Colvill, Chelsea, 
233. 475. 

Dennis and Co., Chelsea, 233. 243. Dickson, 
Clapham, 343. 

Fairbairn, Clapham, 343. 

Groom, Walworth, 343. 

Hogg, Paddington, 343. 

Knight, Chelsea, 233. 343. 474. 

Lee, Hammersmith, 343. 471. Loddiges, 
Hackney, 467. Lowe and Co., Clapton, 469, 

Malcolm and Co., Kensington, 233. 343, 

Rolands and Son, Brentford, 520. 

Whitley and Co., Fulham, 343. 475. 

Nurseries, provincial, noticed. 

Epsom, Messrs. Young, 482. 489. 

Frogmore, Mr. Vare, 651. 

Goldworth, Mr. Robert Donald, 612. 

Ipswich, Messrs. R. Jeffries and Son, 102. 
368. 493, 494. 623. 

Maidenhead, Mr. Wakerill, 660. Milford, 
Mr. Wm. Young, 480. 

Norwich, Mr. Frederick Mackie, 751. 

Reading, Mr. Myles Priest, 662. 

Salthill, Mr. Stewart, 655. 

Uxbridge, Mr. Wall, 648. 

Warminster, Mr. Wheeler, 426. 

Discussions on the utility, relatively to the 
majority of our readers, of inserting in this 
Magazine lists of the rarer ‘plants culti- 
vated in the provincial nurseries, seve- 
rally, 102. 368. 493, 494. 623. 

Nymphenburg, nctes on the palace and gardens 
of, 387; on the botanic garden at, 405; on 
the kitchen garden at, 407. 


758 


Oak tree, the foliage of, ravaged by the cater- 
pillars of the Tértrix viridana, 380; a fine 
cork tree (Quércus Sdber Z.), at Woodford, 
in Suffolk, 308; the effects of pruning on the 
oak, 371 ; what is the most profitable mode 
of treating a plantation of young oak trees, 
whose stems are severally from 3 in. to 7 in. 
diameter, 630; answer in, 720; a mode of 
training the oak tree, so as to produce timber 
shaped fitly for use in the construction of 
ships, 557 ; criticism on this mode, 715 ; pro- 
files of seven oak trees which grow on the 
coast of Dorsetshire, and from the action of 
the south-west wind on their heads these 
incline to the north-east, 548,549; as do those 
of oaksin the Isle of Wight and in Warwick- 
shire, 714; the fitness of the evergreen oak 
(Quércus Tex) for planting near the sea 
coast, for ornament and shelter, 543. 

Oakbrook Cottage, notes on, 648. 

Oat, queries and information on the grub of a 
species of crane-fly which devours the roots 
of the, 505, 506. 


Onions, Mr. Mitchell’s mode of cultivating, 75 ; 


Mr. Whiddon’s mode, 323; strictures on 
Mr. Whiddon’s mode, 626; a growing crop 
of onions much ravaged by the grub of a 
moth of the family Noctttadz, 573. 

Orange tree, on the culture of the, in England, 
67; the orange tree and citron tree flourish 
and bear fruit at Torquay, 582; a mode of 
propagating the orange tree practised in Italy, 
291; M. Mertens’s mode of cultivating the 
orange tree, 594; places on the Continent in 
which the orange tree is cultivated, 94. 

Orchideous plants: notes on the treatment of 
the orchideous epiphytes in the Horticultural 
Society’s Garden, 472; notices of orchideous 
plants recently figured in British botanical 
books, 108. 239. 368. 488. 622. 707. 

Organs, the simple and the compound, of 
plants, are they evolved from the plant’s 
juices, or pre-existent in the system of the 
plant ? discussions of the question, 186, 192, 
283. 287. 529. 

Ouen, St., the park of, described, 134. 

O’xalis crenata Jacquin, recommended as a 
culinary vegetable, 78; a prize offered for a 
dish of the tubers of, 232; the plant’s habit of 
growth in England, 618; floribunda Lehm. 
is comparatively hardy, 465; tetraphYlla or- 
namental and esculent, 594. 

Peonies, a notice of certain grubs which ravage 
the tubers of, 723. 

Paisley, the suburbs of, noticed, 13. 

Pain’s Hill, notes on, 479. 

Paris, gardens and residences in and near, 130. 

Park Place, notes on, 660. 

Pea: the earliness of Bishop’s early dwarf pea, 
and of the early frame pea, compared, 588 ; 
Groom’s new variety of pea, exhibited, 731 ; 

Peach tree and fruit: a mode of inducing a 
late crop of peaches, 70 ; information from 
Mr. Seymour on his mode of training the 
peach tree, 497; remarks on Mr. Hayward’s 
method of training the peach tree, 242; a 
proposition, by Mr. Hayward, to succour 
peach trees and nectarine trees with nitre, a 
preparation from blood, &c., 319; on the evil 
effects of cropping the borders in which fruit 
trees grow, 321; the characters of Burnard’s 
seedling peach, 8. 

Pear tree, the, and its fruit. Mr. Knight’s ex- 
periments to obtain the earliest sight of the 
fruits of seedling pear trees, 87 ; he conceives 
that the pear tree may be propagated, with 
superior consequences, from layers, and from 
cuttings of the root, 88; remarks on Mr. 
Green’s method of training the pear tree, 242; 
Mr. Greenshield’s mode of training pear trees, 
670; the results of ingrafting kinds of pear 
tree on stocks of the Sorbus aucuparia, 595 ; 
and vol. viii. p. 743; notice of a pear which 
weighed 283 ounces, 98; facts in the econo- 
my of the #cidium cancellatum, and of the 
blighting effect of its growth and increase 


GENERAL INDEX. 


omehe leaves and fruit of pear trees, 328, 


Pelargoniums, Mr, Weltje’s collection of, no- 
ticed, 474; Dennis and Co.’s, 343, P. habran- 
thum, olympicum, and Lord Ravensworth, 
described, 476; a mode of preserving the 
greatest number of pelargoniums and other 
kinds of greenhouse plants through the win- 
ter, in the least possible space, 563; a mode 
of obtaining varieties of pelargonium which 
are prolific in flowers, 659, 

Periploca grz‘ca, its flowers destroy flies, 586. 

Peter’s, St., noticed, 12. 

Petimia phenicea D. Don, characteristics and 
habits of, 561; synonymes of, 707. 

Phelp, —, Esq., the residence of, noticed, 426. 

epereum ténax, commercial relations of, 

Physiology. See Vegetation. 

Pine apple, Mr. Appleby’s course of practice in 
cultivating the, 303; advantages resulting 
from growing pine apple plants in pots made 
with holes in their sides, 566; on cultivating 
the pine apple out of pots, 70; Mr. Green- 
shield’s mode of cultivating the pine apple, 
671; Mr. Knight cuts the pine apple while it 
is green, 17; notes on the pine apples grown 
around Paris, 130 ; notice of a liquid mixture 
which destroys the scale on, 697. 


Pinus: a glowing eulogy on the magnificence 


of a pine tree, 275; the characteristics and 
native habits of pine trees, noted as suggesting 
a correcter allocation of them in artificial 
planting, 276; the fitness of the cluster pine 
(Pinus Pinaster) as a nurse to plantations on 
the sea coast, and its fitness for this purpose, 
compared with that of the evergreen oak, 
543; P. caraménica Bosc is the species, not 
P.resindsa Aiton (P. rubra Mx.), which exists 
in the Hartwald in Leimerslachle, 495; the 
excellencies of the P. Laricio, 469. 495; ex- 
ceed those of the P. sylvéstris, 469; the great 
beauty of the P. Cémbra noticed, and remarks 
on other species of the genus Pinus, 475 ; the 
names of the species of Pinus added to the 
pinetum in Dropmore gardens, 560; rarer 
species of Pinus in the grounds at Englefield 
House; 672; very fine hemlock spruce in the 
pleasure-ground at Strathfieldsaye, 674; re- 
marks on the physiological habits of the 
spruce fir, A‘bies excélsa, 661; facts on the 
balm of Gilead fir, 95; the Tenthrédo ery- 
throcéphala is very injurious to the species of 
the genus Pinus, particularly to P. Strobus, 
599; Mr. Taylor on pruning the Scotch pine, 
48 ; pines pruned at Bear Wood, 680. 

Pit, a, suited to the culture of early cucumbers, 
71; Mr. Knight’s melon pits, noticed, 17; 
modes of managing bark beds in pits, 124. 

Plane tree, the eastern and the western, facts 
and queries on the fitness of the soil and cli- 
mate of Britain for the, 379. 503; the button- 
wood tree of the Americans is P. occiden- 
talis Z., 118; a magnificent plane tree at 
Taplow house, noticed, 650. 

Plants: the result of Dr. Wallich’s experience 
in the preparation of plants for, and manage- 
ment of them during, a voyage from India to 
England, 83; suggestions by Dr. Lindley on 
the cultivation of exotic plants, 438; wild 
plants declare the quality of the soil in which 
they flourish, 502; notes on the economical 
plants, trees, and shrubs, observed on the 
Rhine and in France, 89; see, besides, Al- 
pine Plants, Cities, and Floricultural and bo- 
tanical notices of plants. 

Plum tree, the, and its fruit. Mr. Knight’s 
experiments on propagating plum trees from 
layers and cuttings of their roots, 87; con-: 
siderations on sowing plum stones, 596; no- 
tice of a trailing species of plum which grows 
wild near Montreal, 124. 

Poplar, the Lombardy, strictures on the effect 
of, in scenery, 712; a query on the introduc- 
tion to Britain of the female sex of, 722. 

Potatoes; the results of propagating potatoes 


GENERAL INDEX. 


by planting whole tubers at wide distances, 
344; facts and considerations in relation to 
the cutting and planting of seed potatoes, as 
practised in the neighbourhood of Dublin, 

' 589, 590; facts adduced to prove the useless- 
ness of earthing up growing crops of potatoes, 
322; instances of the prolificness of the early 
shore potato, and of the great size of its tu 
bers, 446. 

Pots, double, for marsh plants, or for shading 


the roots of tender plants, 576; a mode of 


watering plants in the open soil by sinking a 
flower-pot in the soil at the root of each, 577. 

Press, a, tor preparing dried specimens of plants, 
473, 


Primrose Hill botanic garden, 463. 

Prospect Hill, notes on, 669. 

Pruning: physiological and practical remarks 
on the pruning of forest trees, by Mr. Taylor, 
48; by Mr. Billington, 50; by Mr. Howden 
in reply to Mr. Billington, 370; by Scientiz 
et Justitiz Amator, in review, 711; pruning 
is injurious to timber and trees, 687; it im- 
proves them, 688; fertility induced by spur 
pruning, 317; disbudding prevents pruning, 
671 


Prussia, notes on the imperial garden at Nikita, 
593; extract from the history of the gardens 
at Worlitz, 594 ; of Dreienbrunnen, near Er- 
furth, 594. 

Queensberry House. See Drumlanrig. 

Quebec, notes on the state of gardening in, 161. 

Radiation, terrestrial, the effects of, on the pro- 
cesses of vegetation, 287; additional facts, 
considerations, and queries on, 499. 

Raehills, noticed, 4. 

Ranunculuses, on raising seedling Asiatic, 66. 

Ratisbon, notes on the botanic garden at, 405. 

Reading: notes on Mr. Myles Priest’s nursery 
at, 662; on the market at, 663; on the garden 
of the gaol at, 663 ; the structure of a certain 
kind of tomb adopted in a churchyard at, 
669; notes on the reservoir, made of cast 
iron, for water for the town of, 669; notes 
on objects seen in passing from Reading to 
Bearwood, 673. 

Richmond Park, noticed, 477. 

Robinia, a notice of various species of, 471. 

Rockworks, Mr. Mallet’s strictures, sugges- 
tions, and episode, upon, 272. 

Rocket, the white, and the purple, double 
flowered, a mode of propagating, 300. 

Roads, notes on, of stated parts of England, 514. 

Rohault’s, M., object in visiting England, 699. 

Rook, a mode of preventing the ravages of the 
rook and other birds, on newly-sown corn, 
569; the services of the rook to the farmer, 
570. 718. ; 

Rose trees and bushes, M. Stichler on the pro- 
pagation and culture of, 94; T. Rivers, jun., 
on the culture of, 458; Chinese roses may be 
propagated from single buds, 698; inform- 
ation on cultivating the yellow double- 
flowered rose tree to the production of its 
flowers perfectly, 508 ; plans of arched frames 
for bestriding walks and for training rose trees 
over, 466; a notice of Mr. Lee’s, Hammer- 
smith, collection of rose tiees, 471; notes on 
some kinds of rose trees’ cultivated in the 
Epsom nursery, 482 ; the, and varieties of the, 
double-flowered Ayrshire rose, 565. Lowea 
berberif dlia has been engrafted on Fraser’s 
Noisette rose tree, and has grown, 725. 

Rousseau’s tomb, and La maison du Philosophe, 
noticed, 132. 

Salads in the winter, what is the best method of 
rearing? 378. 

Salisbury. sce Baker’s. 

Salt-hilly notes on the inn at, 655; on Stewart’s 
nursery at, 655. 

Saw mills, Swiss, noticed, 270; a movable saw 
mill in the Duke of Athol’s woods, 375. 

Sceaux, villas in the neighbourhood of, 142. 153. 

Schinus Molle, an explanation of the pheno- 
mena exhibited on water by fragments of the 
live leaves of, 377. 


199 


Schleissheim Palace, park, and gardens, noticed, 
386; the nursery at, noticed, 408, 

Schizanthus, a white flowered kind of, 465. 663. 

Schwezingen, notes on the gardens at, 257. 

Scotland, notes on residences, &c., observed in 
the west of, 1; facts on the state of gardening 
and farming in, 447; facts on cottage gar- 
dens in the west of Scotland, 15. 

Sea-kale, a frame constructed for’ forcing it, 
described, 346; another, 695; Mr. Forhes’s 
course of cultivating sea-kale, 605. 

Seeds, facts and questions on the length of time 
which seeds retain their vitality, 377. 

Service tree, two varieties of the true, 700. 

Sheds, Mr, Mallet’s mode of building, 193. 

Sheffield, suggestions on the formation of a 
botanic garden at, 464. 700. 

Shrubberies, restoration of half ruined, 231. 

Sinclair, Mr., sen., the death, and facts in the 
life of, noticed, 512. 

Slough, notes on Brown’s nursery at, 523; on 
the garden at the Crown Inn at, 524. 

Smithfield Club, Messrs. Cormack, and Sin- 
clair’s exhibition of seeds and roots at, 98. 

Snuff, see Tobacco. 

Soils, a formulary for detecting the presence of 
oxide of iron in, 376. 502 ; wild plants declare 
the quality of the soils in which they flourish, 
502 ; instances of the effect of soils upon an. 
nual plants, 597. 

Southall, notes on the inn at, 648, 

Spring Grove, notes on, 649, 

Stakes of various kinds of wood, their relative 
resistance of rotting, 596. 

Stoke Farm, notes on, 641. 

Stoke Park, notes on, 528. 

Stoke Place, notes on, 525; on a house on a site 
called Stoke Cottage, 52%. 

Stourhead, the seat of Sir R. C. Hoare, 426, 

Strathfieldsaye, the park and gardens at, 673. 

Strawberry, the qualities of Knevett’s seedling 
pine, 503; the fruit of strawberries preserved 
free from grit, and the attacks of slugs, by 
covering the soil under the fruit with a layer 
of the short grass mown off lawns, 587. 

Sulhampstead, noticed, 672. 

Swallowfield Place, notes on, 677. 

Swallows, see Martins. 

Sweden, Professor Agardh’s notices of the pre- 
sent state of gardening in, 415; plan of the 
botanic garden at Lund, 418. 

Switzerland, Mr. Mallet’s tour in, 270. 

Surrey Zoological Garden, noticed, 343. 

Syringe, what maker’s, in the best ? 380. 

Eogeies lucida, its herbage flavours vinegar, 

91. 

Taplow Court, notes on the residence, 657. 

Taplow Lodge, and the gardens at, 656. 

Tchitchagoff, admiral, the villa of, 142, 

Tea, see Chinese. 

Temperature, a mode of obtaining uniformity 
of, 39; instances of the influence of tempera- 
ture on vegetation, 436. 

Temple, a rural, devised by Mr. Mathews, for 
parks and pleasure grounds, 615. 678. 

Terragles, noticed, 4. 

Ternaux, M., residence of, at St. Ouen, 153. 

Theale, strictures on the architecture of a 
church newly erected at, 670. 

Thompson, Mr., late of the Welbeck gardens, 
now practises landscape-gardening, &c., 98. 

Thorburn, Grant, his visit to England 700. 

Timber, notes on the lag in, 629. 720; descrip- 
tion of a battering axe for felling timber, 297. 
See, besides, Stakes. 

Tobacco, modes of growing and curing, in Bri- 
tain, for gardening purposes, 121. 243; the 
process of cultivating the nicotianas, for 
manufacturing into tobacco and snuff, 587; 
snuff and tobacco made from English grown 
plants of Nicotédna rugdsa and Tabacum, 586. - 
718; burnt tobacco stronger than unburnt, 
122, 


Tortrix viridana, the ravages of, 380. 
Tour, horticultural jottanda of a recent tour on 
the Continent, by Robert Mallet, esq., 18, 270; 


760 


the Conductor’s, in Scotland, in 1831, 1; in 
England, in 1835, 477, 513. 641. 

Tour and Taxis, gardens of the prince of, 396. 

Trafalgar House, seat of Earl Nelson, 15. 

Transplanting of large trees, Mr. Munro’s 
method of, 217; in transplanting trees their 
various phases should be placed in the same 
relation to the points of the compass as they 
had before they were transplanted, 580; a 
utensil for transplanting of plants, in use in 
the Island of Guernsey, 575; an instrument 
to facilitate transplanting without obliging the 
operator to trample on the soil about the 
plant, 575. 

Trees, shrubs, and economical plants on the 
Rhine and in France, notes on the, 89; on 
the preparation of the seeds for sowing some 
kinds of trees, 593; considerations on the 
origin of trees with pendulous branches, 596. 

Tuberose, clumps of plants of the, 56]; M. 
Falcke’s extensive trade in bulbs of the, 409. 

Tulips, modes of obtaining varieties of, 659. 

Turnips, queries and information on diseases of, 
fingers and toes, in, 504; marl reported to be 
a cure for, 504; information on the grub 
which sometimes ravages turnip plants ; on 
the fiy, flea, or beetle which eats up turnips in 
the seedling state, 504, 505. 631; a Norfolk 
tankard turnip grown in Ireland to the weight 
of 36 lbs.avoirdupois, 591 ; the several weights 
of selected individuals of various kinds of tur- 
nip, 99. 

Tae cenient the present state of the botanic 
garden of the late Mr. Swainson at, 521. 

United States of America, on the emigration of 
gardeners to, 29.32; price of provisions in, 
82. 


Vegetation, considerations on the processes of | 


vegetation effected in plants through the 
instrumentality of air, 437. 709; electricity, 
179; humidity, 437; light, 437. 709 to 712; 
magnetism, 179; terrestrial radiation, 287. 
499; temperature, 436. In what course is 
assimilation effected in plants, 529; are the 
organs of plants, both the elementary and the 
compound ones, pre-existent in the system of 
every plant, and only developed by growth, 
or both formed and developed by the pro- 
cesses of vegetation ? Discussions of these 
questions, 186, 283. 529. Considerations on 
pruning as studied in connection with a know- 
ledge of the processes of vegetation, 48 to 
59. 317. 370. See, besides, the additional refer- 
ences under Pruning. : 

Ventilating, to expel stagnant or foul air, 369. 

Villeneuve d’Etang, near Marne, 135. 

Vindé, M. Morel, the park and house of, 144. 

Virginia Water, and the grounds about it no- 
ticed, 615; criticised, 653. 

Walks, plans of arched frames for bestriding 
walks, and for sustaining over walks, rose 
trees, plants of georginas, &c., 466. 

Waller, the poet, notes on the tomb of, 647. 


GENERAL INDEX. 


Walls, Mr. Mallet’s economical mode of build- 
ing, 193; considerations, by Mr. Gorrie, on 
coping for garden walls, 520, 564; cast iron 
coping to walls upon bridges disapproved, 649. 

Walnuts, mode of preserving asked, 124. 

Water, hot: heating hothouses by hot water, 
a review of the modes of, invented by Messrs. 
Kewley, Cottam and Hallen, Perkins, Weekes, 
34; strictures on a statement of the results of 
Mr. Cottam’s apparatus for heating by hot 
water, as in performance at the Karl of Egre- 
mont’s, at Petworth, 117; Mr. Perkins’s ex- 
culpation of his method of heating by hot ° 
water, from the objections expressed against 
it, 202; Mr. Carpmael’s mode described, 
206; a notice of W. D. Holmes’s method of 
heating by the circulation of heated oil, 207 ; 
a criticism on this method, repudiating the 
employment of oil, 277 ;. a notice of Dr. Ure’s 
application of muriate of lime as a means of 
communicating heat, 207 ; Mr. Weekes’s re- 
butment of the objections offered to his mode, 
and a notice, by Mr. Weekes, of other modi- 
fications invented by him, 369; Mr. Busby’s 
method of circulating water, hot or cold, by - 
the aid of machinery, 38; Mr, Mallet’s device 
for burning lime in an apparatus for heating 
by the circulation of hot water, and for appro- 
priating the heat evolved by the lime under 
slacking, usually wasted, to the warming of 
the water, 280; Mr. Mallet’s strictures on 
methods of heating by the circulation of 
fluids, 277; and description of a method, pro- 
posed by himself, of heating by the circula- 
tion of melted metallic alloy, 278. 

Watering,fsee Pot. 

Watthalden, near Ettlingen, notes on the villa 
and gardens of, 260. 

Weekes’s horticultural bazaar noticed, 477. 

Wheat of the neighbourhood of Victoria, 700. 

White Knights, grounds and gardens at, 664. 

Whitehill, a favourable report of, 502.” 

Whitton Dean, notes on, 523. 712; Whitton 
Place, notes on, 523; facts on the large hick- 
ory nut tree at Whitton, 712. 

Wind, the effects of, on trees, see Coast. 

Windsor Castle, and the flower garden at, 654. 

Williamsford noticed, 10. : 

Woburn Abbey, a list of the objects in the gar- 
dens and grounds of, 601; a mistake by the 
Conductor respecting the wages of the assist- 
ant gardeners employed in, 455. 623. 

Wooburn House and grounds, notes on, 646; 
on a garden at Wooburn, 647. 

Work, what quantity of, should a workman per- 
form of the kinds of work specified in, p.375 ? 

Wormwood produces much potash, 598. 

Xanthochymus tinctorius Rowr., the mode of 
culture which induces it to bear fruit in a 
hothouse near Paris, 722. 

Zamia hérrida, male, a note on the flowering 
of a, 595. x. 


-END OF THE NINTH VOLUME. 


Lonpon : 


Printed by A. SPoTTISWOODE, 
New-Street-Square. 


TION LIBRARIES 


wean 


