west 
Re 


Ss ie 
Nei Dig ; 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 


CONDUCTED 


By J.C. LOUDON, F.L.S. H.S. &c. 


AUTHOR OF THE ENCYCLOPMDIAS OF GARDENING AND OF AGRICULTURE, AND 
EDITOR OF THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PLANTS, 


LONDON: 


PRINTED FOR 
LONGMAN, REES, ORME, BROWN, AND GREEN, 


PATERNOSTER-ROW, 


1828. 


LONDON : 


Printed by A. & R. Spottiswoode, 
New-Street-Square. 


PREFACE. 


Iw this Third Volume of the Gardener’s Magazine, the reader will 
find some improvements on the plan of the former Volumes. These 
are, the accentuation of botanic names; the indication of generic 
names as, commemorative, classical, aboriginal, or composed ; and, 
when specific names are Englished, the literal meaning given. 
The details and the advantages of these improvements are ex- 
plained in Vol. II. p. 447. 

Taking a general view of the improvements in gardening which 
are recorded in this Volume, the leading feature, and one of very 
considerable interest in the exotic department, is the mode of 
heating hot-houses by hot water. Though the invention was made 
above half a century ago in France, and applied there for artificial 
incubation, as well as to the hot-houses in the Jardin des Plantes, 
it does not appear to have been introduced into England till the 
year 1815, when the house No. 1. in Russel Place, London, was 
heated in this manner by the Comte Chabannes, and afterwards 
the hot-houses at Sundridge Park by the same individual, in 1816 
and 1817. The use of steam withdrew for atime the attention of 
engineers from the subject of hot water; but that element has 
again been resorted to, apparently without any knowledge of what 
had been already done by others, by Mr. Whale and Mr. Atkinson. 
Neither of these gentlemen, it appears, was aware of M. Bonne- 
main’s invention in Paris, in 1777, or the Comte Chabanne’s oper- 
ations in London and at Sundridge Park. Mr. Tredgold (p. 427.) 
has claimed for Mr. Atkinson the merit of having first success- 
fully applied the hot water system to hot-houses in England ; 
and, unquestionably, Mr. Atkinson’s apparatus of 1822, is more 
simple than that of the Comte Chabannes at Sundridge Park 
of 1816, though not more effectual. ‘The details of which the 
above is the summary, will be found in pages 186. 254. 365. 368. 
and 423—432.; and further information on the subject, received 
even since this Preface was prepared for the press, is unavoidably 
reserved for our succeeding Volume. 

Some most desirable acquisitions to Floriculture are described 
in the analysis of botanical works in our Catalogue raisonnée ; 
and we refer to pages 342. 385., and Vol. II. p. 460., for some 
Dutch and German practices, which, if adopted in this country, 
would, at an easy rate, increase the enjoyments of the wealthy 
who possess gardens; prove profitable to the tradesman gardener ; 
and advantageous to the public consumer of garden vegetables. 


J.C. L. 
London, Bayswater, Feb. 1828. 
AZ 


LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS TO VOL. Ht. 


A. B., of Warwick = - Page 382 
A Complaining Gardener - 360 
A Constant and Approving Reader - 371 
A Constant Reader, &c. - 119. 376, 381 
A Denbighshire Gardener = - 19 
A Female Critic co S - 121 
A Friend to Improvement - 254 
A. G., of Lynn - 5 dY/ 
Agricola, of Lincolnshire S - 155 
Agronome - 15. 151, 287 
A Horticultural Apothecary - - 244 
A Horticultural Sailor C 5 AG 
A Kentish Reader 3 - 120 
An Amateur : = = QP 
An Enquirer 2 - 254 
A Nobleman’s Gardener 5 a Pig 
A Philadelphia Nurseryman k - 349 
A Pine Grower 5 - 120 
Arnott, Mr., of Perth = S ilily/ 
A.'S. 5 - 354 
A Subscriber = oS SG 
A Subscriber and F.H. Ss. - - 108 
A Surrey Reader - - - 381 
A.W. 5 2 - 959 
A Wellwisher - & E 

A, oe - S = 255 
A. Y. S 5 - 381 
B. 


Baillie, Mr. William, Gardener, at Dropmore 
25 


Babington, Mr. Charles C. - 216 

Barnet, Mr. James, Curator of the Experimental 
Garden of the Cal. Hort. Soc. - 

Barrow, Mr. John, Manufacturing Smith, Lon- 


don - - - - 423 
B. Battle - 352 
Bisset, Mr. A. , Gardener, at Methven - 170 
Blaikie, Thomas, Esq. M.C.H. = Cc. M. ft S., 

Paris - 207 
B. M. H. = & Sm ele 
B., of Edinburgh = - - 105 
Botanicus = - - 490 
Boyce, Mr. William - - 102 
Braddick, John, Esq. F.H Si - - 353 
Brown h Mr. James, jun., of Stowe - 117. 23 

c - 376 
Calvert, Mr. A. C., ‘of Rouen - - 334 
Cameron Mr. Daniel, - - 149 
Cameron, Mr. David, A.LS. - a iil 
Cameron, Mr. John, Gardener, Camberwell 156 
Carolus - - - - 121 
Causidicus - - 370 
C.F. W., of Fazeley - - 382. 409 
C. H. D. - 119 
Combeld, Mr. P., Florist, Northampton = 23 

C.P., of York - 30 
D. B. = FS - 5 NG 
D. F. - - = - 119 
D. F., Edinburgh 2 = - 118 
Donaia, Mr., FHLS. - = =) 283 


217 
Falconar, David, Esq., “ Carlowrie, Kirkliston, 


near Edinburgh 488 
Faldermann, Mr. Francis, C. H. S: - 300 
Floristicus - 360, 380 
F.N. B. - 145 
pores. Mr. J., Gardener to the Duke of Bed- 

yee = - nul 


Fulton, Mr. George, Gardener, Northwick Park 


Page 405 
Gauen, Mr: Robert, of Millbrook 34. 101. 170 
G. B, and_N., Lynn = - - 470 
G. B., of Wellesburn = - 359 


Gibb, Mr. David, Gardener to the Dowager 
Marchioness of ‘Londonderry 9 
Godsall, Mr. William, Nurseryman, Hereford, 9 


Gorrie, Mr. Archibald, C.M.HLS, - 115. 253 
Green, Mr. William = - 24. 379 
Green, W., jun., Esq., crepe - oie 493 
G..W. S . 378 
1st 378 


Hamilton, W. , Esq. MD., of Fareham, 157. 352 


Harrison, Mr. Charles, F. i. S: - pe 
HVA. S. . 384 
Hawkins, Mr. Thomas 92, 381 
Hogg, Mr. ome pe Paddington 113. Bis ran 
re. ; 353, 989. 414 
J M & Bet Ue - 217. 353. 383. 
TG Uae i - 240, 361. 476 
J. M. = - 302 
ob M., Brighton o = 12. 375 
JM. Main) = 198, 149, 202, 256. 334 
J. M. (not J, Main) = 117 


Ingram, Mr. Thomas, Gardener to the “Prin- 
cess Augusta, Frogmore - 13 
Johnson, G. W., Esq. 129, 269. 400 
Johnston, Sir Alexander, Knt. V.P. R.A.S., for- 
merly Chief Justice and President of His Ma- 


jesty’s Council in Ceylon = - 99 
Je: = : = - 370 
Jabs B: = : 2 a hee 
J. R. K: - 106 
Irvine, G. W., Esq. > Post-ofice, Dublin - 471 
J. S., South Wales - 380 
ue aYa Perthshire = - =U, 
J. Y., Yarmouth s = - 121 
Lambie, Mr. A. C. = - - 291 
Lee, Mr. Walter = S - 493 
Luckock, Mr. James - - 280 
M‘Murtrie, Mr., C.M.H.S. - - 352 
Malus 281 


Marnock, Mr. “Robert, Gardener, Bretton Hy 
Mather, Mr. G. M., Gardener, Nottingham 


379. 417 
Mathews, Mr. Ass ALS. - - 135 
Mentor 3 - 20 
M. H. 3 - 330.371 
Middleton, Mr. Ke - - = 17 
M., of Exmouth a 218 


Moggridge, John, Esq. - 162. 410 
Moore, Mr. William, Gardener, Green Street 
House, East Ham, Essex 354 
Murray, John,}Esq. F.A.S. L.S. H. S. G.S. &e. ip) 


Murray, Mr. SISLENS C.M.H.S. 
N.A.B. 


o - - 380 
Nash, Mr. James - - - 293 
N. , Edinburgh - 118 
Nelson, Mr. HEE Gardener, at Clifton - 141 
INp Gs = - 482 
Olitor 359 


Otto, Mr., C.M. aH: S, Director of the Botanic 
Garden, Berlin - 92. 94 
Petersen, Mr. J. P., of Copenhagen - 


LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS TO VOL. III. 


Vv 
Philo-Olitorum = Page 231 | Suffolciensis Page 25. 122. 377 
Powell, Mr.F. ,Gardener, New Court, near Here-| Superficial, Brixton Villa -  - 293, 487. 494 
ford - 581} Sutherland, Mr. Robert - 278 
Prince, Mr. William, of. the Linnean Botanic | Swainson, William, Esq. F.R. s. F.L.S. &c. 
Garden, New York = - 97. 212. 465 205, 378 
Pringle, Mr. James, Gardener, at Truro - 140| Sweet, Robert, RIES - S - 297 
Quercus So - - 284| TB. - - 485 
eae Secundus 3 - 285) F.C. H. 5 - 114 
., Esg. = - = - 128} Thonville, W., , Esa. - - 119 
= = - 256) T. J. M. - - - 382 
Reed, Mr. James 23) T*#* R—d_ - 382 
Reeve, Mr. James, Gardener at Laxton Hau Tredgold, SHORES Esq., Civil Engineer, ron 
don - 
vere, T., jun. = - 353} Turner, Mr. R., of Grantham - 30. 102, 103 
ELAN Lodge = - 119) Umbratus - 121 
= - - 37/9] Vallet, Monsieur PAiné, of Rouen - 102 
B.S. = - - 382 Variegata - = - 485 
Rusticus in Urbe - - 118. 162, 493) Viator S = - - 346 
Rusticus Sylvanus 2 = - 486| W. B.S. - 343 
R.W. - - = - 375| Wells, Mr. T., of Bickley Gardens - 490 
Ss. - - é = 99| W. G., of Swansea - 381 
Saul, Mr. Mathias, Lancaster, - 121. 418, 421| W. G.W. 381, 382 
Saunders, Mr. Richard, Gardener, Luscombe,| Williams, Mr. Thomas, Gardener, Ratcliffe 
Devonshire - - - 404 Lodge - = 216 
Semina = c - - 382) W. M. Argyleshire - - 227. 412 
Sensitivus - - - - 3/71) W.R R. ¥. - - 381. 290. 330 
S. F. . - - 245) W.S. c a, 8B 
Shai, Mr. Charles - - - 278| W.S., near Nottingham = - 116 
Shennan, Mr. William Johnston - 167) Y.B. = > 2 
Sidey, Mr. Charles, JEON Perth - 472} Youell, Mr. J. 217 
S., of Manchester - a Bay Young, Mr. James, Gardener at Wilford House 
Stecle, Andrew, Esq. 255 138 
Stephens, Mr. James, Gardener, CarrHouse, 218) Z. - = - 377. 381 
S.'E P. e a - 118) Zig-Zag  - - ~ 365 


Strathmoriensis 2 - 224: 


CONTENTS. 


Parr I. 


On the Apple Tree, as trained against a Wall. 
By Mr. Charles Harrison, F.H.S. — - Page 1 
On the Preservation of Apples. By Mr. David 
Gibb, Gardener to the Dowager Marchioness 
of Londonderry, North Cray Place, Kent 9 
On Prolonging the Season of Hardy Fruits. By 
Mr. J. Forbes, Gardener to His Grace the 
Duke of Bedford, at Woburn Abbey - ll 
On the Prolongation of the ripe Grape on the 
Vine. By J. M. - - - | 
On fixing Wire against Garden Walls for train- 
ing Fruit Trees. By Mr. Thomas Ingram, 
Gardener to Her Royal Highness the Prin- 
cess Augusta, at Frogmore - le 
Autobiography, and various hints. 
nome - - - 
Designs for a Vinery, by which the earliest and 
the latest grapes may be obtained in the same 
Structure. By Mr. A. Middleton - 1 
On the Culture of the Potato, in respect to Kar- 
liness, the Curl, the Worm, and other Circum- 
stances. By a Denbighshire Gardener - 19 
Description of a Structure, to be heated by 
Dung, for growing Cucumbers and Melons. 
By Mentor - - - - 20 
Suggestions for a movable Cucumber Bed to be 
heated by Dung. By Mr. Thomas Hawkins 22 
On a Mode of procuring a Crop of Cucumbers 
during Winter, by forming the Hot-bed within 
a Vinery. By Mr. James Reed - - 23 
On a superior Method of raising the Vine from 
Layers. By Mr. W. Green. - - 24 
Suggestions for Improvements on the Horticul- 
tural Memorandum Book of a Country Cler- 
gyman. By Suffolciensis 26 = 25 
Account of a rapid and successful Mode of graft- 
ing the Orange. By Mr. James Reeve, Gar- 
dener to G. F. Evans, Esq. and Lady Car- 
berry, Laxton Hall, Northamptonshire - 26 
Description of a new Tally for naming Plants, 
with a Note on grafting the Camellia. By Mr. 
Stewart Murray, C.M.H.S. o 3 Bs} 
Description of a Machine for dusting Fruit 
Trees with powdered Lime, or other Powder. 
By C. P. of York - S 90) 
Account of a successful Attempt to destroy 
A‘phis lanigera. By Mr. R. Turner. - 7d. 
Remarks on the disappointments incident to Or- 
chardists, and on describing and characteris- 
ing Fruit Trees. By W.R.Y: - ~ 3l 
Comparative View of the Expenses of a Gar- 
dener and a Butler to their Employer. By 
W.S. 82 


By Agro- 
- 15 


The Art of ornamenting, showing, preserving, 
and packing Cucumbers, Grapes, Plums, and 
other Fruits whose principal Beauty consists 
in their delicate Bloom. By Mr. Robert 
Gauen, Gardener at Milbrook, near South- 
ampton - - - - 34 

Outlines of Horticultural Chemistry, &c. By 
G. W. Johnson, Esq., of Great Totham, Es- 
sex - - - - 129 

Plan and Elevation of a Dairy Cottage, and 
Poultry-yard, erected by Mr. B. Matthews, at 
Syndal House, Kent, for the late Sir Samuel 
Auchmuty. Communicated by Mr. A. Mat- 
thews, A.LS. - = - 135 

On preparing Ice and filling an Ice-house, so as 
the Ice may keep for Two or Three Years. 
By Mr. James Young, Gardener to Henry 
Seite Esq., of Wilford House, Nottingham- 
shire - - - 3 

Notice of a Horticultural Plough and its Uses 
By Mr. William Gedsall, Nurseryman and 
Florist, Hereford = = - 159 

Culture of the Gloridsa supérba. By Mr. James 

Pringle, Gardener to Lewis Charles Daubuz 

Esq., Truro, Cornwall . 2140 


3 | On Salt and other Matters. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Culture ofthe Gloxinza maculata. By Mr. John 
Nelson, principal Gardener to William Miles, 


Esq., Clifton, near Bristol _ - - Page 141 
Reminiscences of a Visit to Malacca. By Mr. 
James Main - - 142 


A Description of a Method of cultivating the 
Vine, by which it is thought Grapes may be 
ripened in many Parts of England for the 
Purpose of making Wine. By F. N. B, - 145 


2| On grafting the Peach, Nectarine, and Apricot 


on Stocks of theirown kind. By Mr. Daniel 
Cameron, late Gardener to Admiral Sir George 
Cockburn, at Highbeach, Essex - 149 
By Agronome 151 
On the Use of Salt in the Culture of the Hya- 
cinth. By Mr. Thomas Hogg, Florist, Pad- 
* dington - = - - 154 
Result of certain Experiments in regard to the 
Use of Salt in Agriculture. By Agricola of 
Lincolnshire - c =w15D 
On the Conduct of Gardeners and their Em- 
ployers. By Mr. John Cameron, Gardener, 
Grove Lane, Camberwell - - 156. 
On the Culture of Hyperanthéra Moringa, or 
Horseradish Tree, in the West Indies. By 
W. Hamilton, Esq. M.D. Fareham, near Ply- 
mouth - - - - 157 
On Paragréles, or Hail-Protectors, and their 
Employment in Britain. By John Murray, 
Esq. F.A.S. L.S. H.S. G.S. &e. - - 159 
Note on Mr. Campbell’s Mode of growing the 
Hyacinth. By Rusticus in Urbe _-. 162 
Further Particulars of an Experiment made 
with a View of bettering the Condition of the 
Labouring Classes. By John Moggridge, By 


On the Construction and Use of Straw Mats for 
covering Hot-houses, and as a substitute for 
Russian Mats in covering Frames and Pits. 
By Mr. William Johnston Shennan, Gardener 
at Gunnersbury House, Middlesex 167 

Notice of a Revolving Frame for Forcing, and 
the Culture of Exotics, the Invention of Mr. 
R. Gauen of Millbrook ; and of another Re- 
volving Forcing-Frame by Mr. Alexander 
Bisset, Gardener to Robert Smith, Esq., of 

i Methven, Perthshire 170 

Some Account of the Flower-gardens and the 
Pinetum at Dropmore, the Seat of Lord Gren- 
ville. By Mr. William Baillie, Gardener at 
Dropmore. Interspersed with general Re- 
marks on the Gardens and Grounds there, by 
the Conductor - - = 257 

Outlines of Horticultural Chemistry, &c. By 
G. W. Johnson, Esq., of Great Totham, Es- 
sex. (Continued from p. 135.) - - 269 

On the Culture and Propagation of the Genus 
Citrus. By an Amateur - - 272 

On destroying the Red Spider in Hot-houses. 
By Mr. David Cameron, A.L.S., Gardener to 
Robert Barclay, Esq. F.L.S. H.S., Bury Hill, 
Surrey 3 = Aehibge - 277 

On the Destruction of the American Blight on 
Fruit Trees. By Mr. Charles Sharp, of oss 

7 

On the Blight and Fire-blast on Fruit Trees. 
By Mr. Robert Sutherland, Gardener to J. F. 
N. Halsey, Esq., Gaddeston Park, Hertford- 
shire - S : - 278 

On the various Uses of Rhubarb Stalks. By 
Mr. James Luckock, of Edgbaston, near Bir- 
mingham = = - 280 

An Orchard in Miniature; or the Culture of 
Apple Trees as Dwarf Standards, after the 
Manner of Gooseberry Bushes. By Malus 281 

Note of the Result of an Experiment made at 
Bretton Hall on pitting Apples. Ina Letter 
to Mr. Donald, of Weking. By Mr. Robert 


CONTENTS. 


Marnock, Foreman of the Kitchen-garden at 
Bretton Hall. Communicated by Mr. Donald, 
F.FLS. Page 283 
On the Cultivation f Timber 


and Management o 


Trees. By Quercus - - ~ 284 
The falling Fortunes of the English Oak de- 
defended. By Quercus Secundus - 285 


How to conduct a Gardener’s Magazine, ‘and 
other Matters. By Agronome - 287 
On Artificial Compost. By W. R. Y. - 290 
On the Culture and Propagation of the Chry- 
santhemum indicum. By Mr. A.C. Lambie, 
Gardener to Sir George Sitwell, Bart., Reni- 
shaw Hall, near Chesterfield, Derbyshire 291 
On the Conduct of Gardeners and their Em- 
ployers, with respect to giving and exchanging 
Plants and Seeds. By a Nobleman’s Gar- 
dener - - - 29) 
On propagating Pebdnia Movtan by grafting on 
Pebdnia officinalis. By Mr. James Nash, 
* Flower-gardener to Lady Farnborough, Brom- 
. ley Hill, Kent - - 293 
On the Disappointments incident to Purchasers 
of Fruit Trees. By Superficial, of Brixton 
Villa, Brixton, Surrey - - 293 
On the Rose Cockchaffer, AnomAalia horténsis ; 
supposed to be the perfect Insect of the Ver 
Blanc, or White Worm, of the French Hor- 


. ticulturists. © By William Swainson, Esq. 
F.B.S. F.L.S. &c. - : = 295 
On the Culture of Pettinza nyctaginifidra. By 


Robert Sweet, F.L.S., Author of Flora Aus- 
tralasica, Sweet’s Hortus Britannicus, &c. ae 

9 

A serviceable Tally Peg for Plants. By J. ae 
On the Culture of AmarYilis vittata in the 
neighbourhood of St. Petersburgh. By Mr. 
Francis Faldermann, C.M.H.S., Botanic Gar- 
dener to the Emperor of Russia, at St. Peters- 
burgh = - - - 300 
An approved Method of obtaining a Crop of 
' Karly Cauliflower, a week or ten days before 
those treated in the usual way. By J. M. 302 
Some Account of the Dutch Manner of Forcing, 
as practised in the Kitchen- garden at Hylands, 
near Chelmsford, the Seat of P. C. Labouchere, 
Esq., F.H.S. From Notes made there on No- 

. vember 7. 1827 - 389 


Parr II. 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society of 
London, Vol. VII. Part I. 43, 171 
Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural So- 
ciety, Vol. IV. Part I. 55. 192. 303 
Verhandlungen des Vereins, zur Beforderung 
des Gartenbaues, &c. Transactions of the So- 
ciety for the advancement of Gardening in the 
Royal Prussian States, Vol. I. Part II. 62. ae 


Vil 


Outlines of Horticultural Chemistry. By 
G. W. Johnson, Esq., of Great Totham, Essex 
(Continued from p. 272.) Page 400 

On keeping Ice in Ice-houses. By Mr. Richard 
Saunders, Gardener to C. Hoare, Esq., F.R.S., 
H.S., &c., at Luscombe, Devonshire - 404 

On keeping Potatoes through the Winter and 
Summer in Canada Cellars. By Mr. George 
Fulton, Gardener to Lord Northwick, at 
Northwick Park = - 405 

Result of a Trial of Vines trained on hanging 
Trellises in the Garden of R. Bruce, Esq., of 
Kennet, Clackmannanshire. By Mr. James 
Barnet, Curator of the Experimental Garden 
of the Caledonian Horticultural Society - 407 

On planting Timber Trees, with an estimate of 
the Produce and Profits of an acre of Black 
Italian Poplar, Pdépulus acladésca, Lind. By 
C. F. W., of Fazeley, Staffordshire - 409 

On the Athenian"Poplar, Pépulus grea, as a 
Timber Tree. By John H. Moggridge, Esq. of 
Woodfield - - 410 

An Attempt to show how Timber Trees may be 
cultivated conjointly with Farm Produce. By 
W. M. of Argyleshire - - 412 

Description and Use of Dyer’s Retrocoupling 
Bee-boxes. By Mr. C. Hale Jessop, nursery- 
man, Cheltenham - - - 414 

An account of a new and effectual Method of 
protecting early forced Crops, in Frames, dur- 
ing the Winter and Spring Months. By Mr. 
E. M. Mather, formerly Gardener at Old Base- 
ford, Nottingham - 417 

Description of an Awning for a Tulip Bed, and 
also of the Flower Stage in use by the Lancas- 
ter Horticultural Society. By Mr. Mathias 
Saul, of Lancaster - 418 

On training and managing the Gooseberry with 

a view to Fruit for Prize Exhibitions. By Mr. 
Mathias Saul, of Lancaster - 421 
Some Account of the Experiments made by 
William Atkinson, Esq. F.H.S., which led to 
the heating of Hot-houses by hot Water. By 
Mr. John Barrow, Manufacturing Smith - 493 
Mr. Atkinson, of Grove End, proved to have 
been the first who successfully applied the 
Mode of heating by hot Water to Hot-houses. 
By Thomas Tredgold, Esq., Engineer 427 


u 


REVIEWS. 


| Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, 
Botany, Rural Architecture, &c. published 
sinceJune last,with some Account of those con- 
sidered the most interesting 66. 195. 318. 499 
Literary Notices - - - - 89 
Annales de la Société d’Horticulture de Paris, 
et Journal Spécial de Etat et des Progrés 
du Jardinage. Tom. I. Second Livraison, pour 
Octobre, 1827. 


a a =F T4 
Part III. MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 

Foreign Notices : Linnean Society - c - 475 
France : - 90. 207. 342. 464 Provincial Horticultural and Florists’ Societies 
Germany - - - 92, 208. 342 109. 233. 356 
Italy — - o - 95. 209 , Covent Garden Market - 240. 361. 476 
Spain - - - - - 209, Architecture - - 477 
Portugal - - - 95, 465 | Domestic Economy - - 478 
Holland andthe Netherlands - - 95) Hints for Improvements - - 478 
Russia - - - - - 96) Antiquities of Gardening - - 479 
Denmark - = 96. 344 | Priced List of Florist’s Flowers - 240 
North America - 97. 209. 346. 465 | Hints for Experiments - 2 242. 365 
South America - - 98. 212 | Garden Libraries - - 115, 252 
Asia - - - = 99. 213; Order and Neatness’  - 3 - 245 
Australasia = - 100. 214 , Original Beauty of Lines and Forms - 247 

Domestic Notices : Answers to Queries, and Queries 117. 253. 374. 
England - - 102, 214. 350. 467 488 
Scotland - - 104, 219. 354. 471! Retrospective Criticism - 121. 255. 368, 481 
Ireland - - 106. 229, 355. 472 | Calls at Suburban Gardens 122, 361. 480 

Horticultural Society and Garden 106. 230 | Biography a iie o 127. 383 

356. 473 | Obituary = - 256. 384, 494 


a 


ENGRAVINGS 


IN VOL. III. 


No. IMPLEMENTS. ~ Page 
38. Horticultural plough =e = 139 
60. The perforator - 214 
64. Finlayson’s self-cleaning plough - 243 

134. Dutch tilt for hot-bed frames - - 387 

INSTRUMENTS. 

16. Murray’s tally for naming plants > 2g) 
61. Bregazzi’s bark-bed thermometer — - 215 
‘62. Bregazzi’s hot-house thermometer - 215 
105, 106. Cheap cast-iron tallies for plants 299 
135. Key for raising hot-bed frames - 387 
169. Labels for plants = - - 169 
MACHINES. 

18. Apparatus for blooming fruits - 36 
31. Gauen’s solar concentrator - - 101 
63. Read’s fumigating bellows - - 229 

125. Cabbage-cutting machine for prepar- 

ing sauerkraut - - - 
UTENSILS. 
17. Powdering bellows & E35) 
86, 87. Ornamental vases for plants, at 
Dropmore - - 262, 263 
128. Gordon’ s kettle - - - 3865 
157. Dyer’s retrocoupling bee-boxes - 415 
‘STRUCTURES. 
10, 11. Wiring garden walls - - 13, 14 
12. Vinery for early and late crops 5) dg 
13. New frame for cucumbers - a ail 
ly. Mr. Acon’s vinery for early forcing 44 
20. Mr. Acon’s'vinery for late crops = 45 
+21. Mr. Dick’s frame for protecting fruit 
trees from insects and from frost - 54 
32. Mr. Donald’s propagating pit - 193 
33. Hen-coops at Virginia Water - 124 
48. Gauen’s revolving forcing frame = 70 
49, 20. Pit for pines ; -. 172 
52, 53. Vinery at Elcot heated by hot wa- 
“ter 87, 188 
57. Bonnet-roofed German hot-house - 205 
© 58. Opaque-roofed German conservatory 205 
109. Section of a common hot-bed heated 
by hot water - 310 
126, 127. Conservatory of Joseph Wilson, 
Esq., on Clapham Common - 361, 362 
132. Hot-bed sash, for forcing of lettuces 
in the Dutch manner 886 
136. Section of hot-bed and frame for forc- 
ing lettuces in the Dutch manner — 387 


137. Section of M‘Phail’s phe with a roof 


to the lining 388 
138. te 141. Dutch forcing- pits - = 390. 393 
142. 145. Dutch peach house, and straw- 
berry house _ - - 394, 395 
149, 150. Reed wall, as cons‘ ructed by the 
Dutch - 398 . 
158. Saul’s awning for a tulip bed - 419 
159, 160. Flower stage of the Lancaster 
Horticultural Society - - 419, 420 
EDIFICE. 
34, 35, 36, 37. Dairy cottage - 135—137 
OPERATIONS. 
1. to 9. Pruning the apple E 3—9 
922. to 26. French modes of pruning the 
peach tree - - - 58, 59 


47. 


104. 


29. 


Page 
Grafting the peach on the peach - 149 

. Twisting and breaking down the 

shoots of pear trees - ES) 

. to 83. Grouping trees - = 251, 252 
Quincunx manner of planting = 28z 

DIAGRAMS. 

. Section of a terraced vineyard - 146 

. Mode of ascertaining the eae of me 

sun’s elevation - 

. Heating by hot water - - 190 

. to 71. Crelual beauty of lines and 

form - 248, 249 

. 16, 77, 78 & 79. Original beauty of lines 

‘and forms 
. Ventilators for hot-houses at ‘Felinton 
Castle = = 
. to 122. Diagrams illustrative of a 
mode of describing fruits - 326, 327 
b Beaune water by;a jet of SHEEN 
~ Jl 
b Heating water by the concentration of 
the sun’s rays - 
. Heating water by the street lamps - 368 
. A stop, and other details relating to 
Dutch hot-bed frames = 387 
. to 155. Planting trees SOM with 
agriculture 3 
162, 163. Pruning the gooseberry in 
the Lancashire manner 421 
. to 167. Heating by hot water 494, 425, 427 
PLANTS. 

. Orange on an orange stock - - 2 

. Orange on a lemon stock 28 

. Caryophyllus aromaticus, the clove 

spice 66 

. Myristica officinalis, the nutmeg tree 67 

. Michéléa Champica rm - 142 
Lupinus polyphyllus - - 197 

. Clarkia pulchélla - - - 197 

. Myrica cerifera - - 206 

. to 103. Different species of the pine 

anus an tribein the Pinetum at Drop- 
- - 265—268 
Amargilis vittata = - - 300 

. Collinséa grandiflora = - - 322 

. Kennédéa coccinea - = =oee 

. Caragana frutéscens - - 322 

FRUITS. 

. Mangosteen - - - 143 
Duku - - - - 143 
Courangi - - 143 

. Baduc, or Jambosteen _ = - 144 

. Rambosteen - - 144 

. Royal apricot - - 322 

PLANS OF GARDENS. 

. Botanic garden of Mexico ° 298 
73. Plans of flower gardens = - 249 

. Plan of a flower garden 2 - 250 

. Flower garden at Dropmore Riniaes 259) 

. Dutch flower garden at Dropmore - 261 
124. Botanic garden of Warsaw - 339 
147, 148. Duteh cherry-garden and 

net-roof at Hylands -- - 3896, 397 
LANDSCAPE. 
Hamlet’s garden, near Elsinore - 96 


Erratum. — Page 310, line 17. for 13in. read one eighth of an inch. 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
SEPTEMBER, 1827. 


PART I. 
ORIGINAL CORRESPONDENCE. 


Art. I. On the Apple Tree, as trained against a Wall. By 
Mr. Cuartes Harrison, F.H.S. 


Due kind of soil which I consider most suitable for the apple 
tree is a strong loam upon a dry bottom; for, if the bottom 
be wet, the trees are generally diseased and affected with 
canker. 

The border for the trees is constructed in the following man- 
ner: The depth is three feet at the wall, and two feet six 
inches at the front, also twelve or fourteen broad. The sur- 
face of the under stratum is so formed, as to have an inclin- 
ation from the wall to the front of the border of twelve inches. 
After this is done, a drain is made to run close to the wall, 
and in a direction with it; also another to run parallel with 
it, at the front of the border. These drains are open stone 
drains, and are so made that all superabundant water can be 
carried entirely away from the border. ‘The drains are so 
constructed that the tops of them are about three inches 
higher than the surface of the following composed substratum. 
After the drains are made, there is laid all over the surface of 
the under stratum, three inches think of moderate-sized gravel 
(if gravel cannot be had, stones or brick bats broken toa small 
size may be used for the purpose); upon this spread about 
one inch thick of fine gravel (or instead of it strong road drift) ; 
the whole is then well rolled or beaten firm together ; after this 
is done, about three inches more of gravel or small stones is 
laid, which is also beaten or rolled to an even surface, but 
‘hot so as to bind them very close together. ‘This method of 

Vou. ITI. — No. 9. B a. 


2 Management of the Apple Tree, 


forming the substratum of the border ought always to be at- 
tended to, when the soil of the border is a very strong loam, 
unless the bottom is rocky or shaly, when it may be dis- 
pensed with. 

Trees.—I always plant a maiden tree and one that has only 
one upright stem. In the following instructions I have stated 
each year’s method of pruning, for such a number of years 
after the planting of the tree, as appears to be necessary in 
order to convey my practice fully. ‘The commencement of 
each year I date from the beginning of winter pruning, 
and which is always performed as early in the winter as 
possible, with the exception of the first year, as will be per- 
ceived. I have only described the practice to that part of 
each branch produced the first year after the planting of 
the tree, all other spurs, &c., in the other parts of the tree, 
requiring the same treatment when at a similar age and con- 
dition. 

First Year.— Winter Pruning. The tree is headed down 
just before it begins to push; in doing which, the foot is placed 
upon the soil, and close to the bole, in order to prevent it 
from being drawn up by the force which is used in the ope- 
ration. ‘The cut is made in a sloping direction towards the 
wall, and about half an inch above the bud which is selected 
for the leading shoot. ‘The tree is cut down so that seven 
buds remain. The horizontal mode of training I consider 
preferable to all others for the apple tree. 

Summer Pruning. Tf all the buds push (which will gene- 
rally be the case), they are all permitted to grow until they 
have attained three inches in length, when two of them are 
rubbed off; those rubbed off are the third and fourth buds, 
counting upwards from the origin of the tree. The upper- 
most shoot is trained straight up the wall for a leading stem, 
and the remaining four horizontally along the wall, two on 
each side the stem of the tree. ‘These shoots are trained nine 
inches apart, for when they are much nearer than this they 
exclude the sun and air from operating upon the buds and 
wood, in such a manner as is required to keep the tree pro- 
ductive. When the leading upright shoot has attained about 
fifteen inches in length, the end is pinched off so as to leave 
it about eleven inches long. ‘This causes shoots to be pro- 
duced from the upper part of the leader thus stopped, three of 
which are trained in, the uppermost straight up the wall, and 
the others one on each side the stem of the leader. ‘This stop- 
ping of the leading shoot is not performed later than the end 
of June or early in July; for, when it is done much later, 


as trained against a Wall. 3 


those shoots which push afterwards in that season do not ar- 
rive at a sufficient degree of maturity to withstand the winter, 
and are frequently destroyed by frost.. When it happens that a 
tree has not done well in the early part of the season, and the 
upright shoot is not of a suitable length or vigour at the proper 
period for stopping it, it is not meddled with afterwards until 
the winter pruning of the tree. When the tree grows either 
too weak or too vigorous, I have recourse to lowering the 
branches or raising them as required. 

Second Year.—Winter Pruning. At the middle or end of 
November the tree is pruned. The upright leading shoot 
is now shortened down to ten inches from the place 
where it,was last stopped. ‘The tree will now be represented 
by the accompanying sketch. (jig. 1.) The side shoots (but 
which will hereafter be 
termed branches) are not 
shortened, but left their full 
leneth. If, during sum- 
mer, the end of a branch 
should havebeen accidentally 
broken or damaged, the ge- 
neral consequence resulting 
from it is the production of 
several shoots or fruit buds. 
If shoots (which is very ge- 
nerally the case) were pro- 
duced, and were shortened 
during summer agreeably to directions for similar shoots in the 
treatment of the tree for the second year (see Swnmer Prun- 
ing), they are now cut down to about half an inch in length. 
(fig. 2.) If; instead of shoots, natural fruit buds should have 
been produced (these are short and stiff, from half an inch to 
an inch in length, and red at the ends), such are allowed to 
remain untouched, as it is on those that fruit are produced. 
The advantage of shortening back the upright shoot as much 
as is directed to be done is, that by it branches are certain to 
be produced at those places desired, so that no vacancy oc- 
curs. The leading upright shoot thus attended to will reach 
the top of a wall twelve feet high in seven years, which is as 
soon as the tree will be able to do, so as to support every part 
sufficiently. ‘The tree is always loosened from the wall every 
winter pruning; the wall is swept and washed, also recoloured 
with paint or coal tar if required; the tree is also anointed 
with composition. I always lay some fresh mulch to the 
roots of the trees at this time. 

BZ 


4 Management of the Apple Tree, 


Summer Pruning. When the buds upon that part of 
the leading stem which was produced last have pushed, 
they are all rubbed off to the three uppermost. The 
topmost is trained straight up the wall, for a lead to the main 
stem ; and the two others, one on each side. ‘The instructions 
given for stopping the leading shoot in summer, also shorten- 
ing it back in winter pruning, &c., are attended to until the 
tree arrives at a few inches from the top of the wall. The 
side branches are allowed to grow without being shortened 
back at any time, until they have extended as far as can be 
permitted, when they are pruned im every winter, by cutting 
back each leading shoot to two buds from where it pushed 
the previous spring. Any shoots arising from the fore part 
of the main stem are taken clean away. The buds upon the 
wood made last year will this summer generally make fruitful 
ones. If, on the contrary (as is sometimes the case), shoots 
are produced instead of fruitful buds, they are allowed to 
grow ten or twelve inches long, until the wood attains a little 
hardness towards the bottom of it, when they are cut down to 
about two inches in length; and at the bottom part of what 
remains, one or two fruit buds are formed, so as to be pro- 
ductive in most cases the next year, but in others not until 
the second year. Although such a shoot was shortened as 
directed, yet it will generally push a shoot or more the same 
season from the top part of it. After such have grown a suit- 
able length (as before described), they are cut back to about 
two inches from where they pushed. If more than one shoot 
were produced after the first shortening, and a bud or two is 
well swelled at the origin of the shoot (as before described), 
all the shoots are left, and shortened as directed ; but, if no 
such bud is produced, all the shoots are cut clean away ex- 
cepting one, which is treated in shortening as before directed. 
The latter practice will generally be found necessary, and 
also be more advantageous, as a greater portion of sun* and 
air is admitted to the buds, which will be considerably 
strengthened and forwarded to a mature state. If after such 
treatment fruit buds are not produced from the origin of the 
shoot, I nail the shoot to the wall, parallel with the branch, 
which is uniformly successful in producing them. 

Third Year.—Winter Pruning. Such of the buds as pro- 
duced wood shoots the last year, and were shortened during 
summer as described, are now shortened more. It frequently 
happens that a fruitful bud, or in some instances two, will 
have been formed at the lower part of the shoot (fig. 2. aa); 
such shoots are now cut off about quarter of an inch above 


as trained against a Wall. 5 


the uppermost of the fruitful buds (4): but (as it is sometimes 
the case), if there have not been fruitful buds produced, there 
will be growing buds, and then the shoots are cut down so as to 
leave one bud. (fig. 2. c.) On some occasions the growing 
buds and fruitful buds will 
appear but very indistinctly, 
and in an embryo state; 
when this is the case the 
shoots are cut down so as 
to leave two of those em- 
bryo buds (dd). ‘There are 
generally some natural fruit buds which did not push to 
shoots, all such are left entire (c). ‘They are of a reddish 
colour, and are easily distinguished from growing buds, which 
are considerably less and all of a dark colour. 

Summer Pruning. ‘This summer the fruitful buds are pro- 
ductive. When the fruit has swelled a little, a shoot generally 
proceeds from the stem of ithe spur (which it may now be 
called), just underneath the fruit: such are allowed to grow 
eight or ten inches long, and are then shortened back to 
two inches, or so as ‘to leave three eyes upon each. 
(fig. 3.A,a.) By shortening the shoot, strength is thrown 


b A Ab 5 


into the fruit, and, during summer, two or more fruit buds are 
generally produced at the bottom of the shoot thus cut down 
(fig. 3. bb), or, otherwise, from the lower part of the spur. 
(jig. 3. c.) It sometimes occurs that, when the tree is very 
vigorous, some of the buds (fg. 3. 6 4) will push into shoots, 
or occasionally into bloom, during the latter end of summer. 
If shoots, they are allowed to grow, and are then shortened, 
as described for similar shoots; but, when bloom is produced, 
it is immediately cut off close under the blossom. 

The shoots (jig. 2. c) produced after the third year’s winter 
pruning are allowed to grow, and are then shortened, as 
already directed for similar shoots. (See Second Year's Summer 
Pruning.) The shoots which were pruned as directed last 

B 3 


"6 Management of the Apple Tree, 


winter, and had embryo buds (fg. 2. dd) during this summer, 
generally have a fruit bud, and in some cases two, formed at 
their bases. ‘I'he treatment of all shoots produced upon any 
of the spurs in future, is agreeably to the previous instructions 
given. 

T always thin the fruit, and, where two are situated together, 
I take one away; this is done when I perceive them begin to 
flesh. 

Fourth Year. — Winter Pruning. ‘The spurs (fig. 3. a B) 
which were productive last summer, and upon which a 
shoot was made and shortened (jig. 3. a, spur A), are now 
regulated in the following manner: — If there be two good 
fruit buds formed upon the stem of the spur (fg.3.dd, 
spur B), all that part of it above such buds is cut away, about 
a quarter of an inch above the uppermost (as at c):.but, if 
there is only one good fruit bud upon the stem, and one 
upon the shoot which was cut in during summer (as at a, 
spur A), then it is pruned off (as at spur c, ce), so that two 
buds only remain (as,ff). When there is only one fruit bud 
upon the stem of the spur (as spur D, a), and no fruitful buds 
at the shoot (5), then all the spur is pruned away (as at c). 
Sometimes those spurs that bear fruit will not have a shoot 
produced, but, instead of it, a fruitful bud (as spur &, a); it 
is then pruned off just above such bud (as at 6). 

Summer Pruning. All shoots are pruned, as already directed 
in the second and third years. 

Fifth Year. —Winter Pruning. All the spurs are allowed 
to retain three fruitful buds each ; but, as there are generally 
more than is required to keep, some of them are thinned. 
away, retaining the best buds. The ripest buds are most 
plump and red at the ends. If such buds are situated near to 
the origin of the spur (as fig. 4. spur a, aaa), they are 
retained in preference 
to similar fruitful buds 
that are nigher the end 
of the spur (as 66); the 
spur is then cut off (as 
at cc). When there 
are no fruitful buds 
near to the origin of 
the spur, those are left 
that are further off; 
but I always take care 
to preserve the bud 
situated nearest to the branch which supports the spur, 


as trained against a Wail. 7 


whether it be a growing or a fruitful one (as spur B, in which a@ 
is a fruitful bud, and 6 a growing one). 

If there be a suitable supply of buds upon the old part of 
the spur (as c, c cc), they are retained in preference to those 
buds formed at the bases of shoots which have been pruned 
during summer (as e 6): for, when there is a proper supply 
on the old part of the spur, all such shoots are cut clean away, 
with the exception of one that is situated near to the origin of 
the spur (as e), when that bud and the two next are only left. 

Summer Pruning is performed as before directed. 

Sixth Year.— Winter Pruning. In order to convey a correct 
method of my treatment of the spurs in future, it will be 
necessary to point them out by numbers, as 1, 2, and 3. 
The enumeration will proceed from the bole of the tree, 
along the branch. After three spurs are thus numbered, I begin 
again, and proceed with No. 1. &c. (agreeably to fig. 5.). 


Every spur No. 1. is now cut down to the lowest bud there 
is upon it, whether it be a fruitful bud (asa), or growing bud 
(as 6). Every spur No.2. to have three fruit buds (as cc c), 
and every spur No. 3. to have four fruit buds (as ddd d). 
When a spur No. 1. is destitute of either a fruitful or a growing 
bud towards the lower part of it, such a spur is cut down so 
low as only to leave about one half inch remaining (as 

Jig. 5. 4). There is generally an eye or embryo of a bud situated 
near to the origin of the spur (as a, spur a); from this a shoot 
or a fruitful bud is produced the ensuing summer, and thus a 
supply is obtained for that cut away. 

Summer Pruning. All shoots are shortened during sum- 
mer, as before directed. Particular care is paid to the spurs 
No. 1., as a shoot or a fruitful bud is generally produced 
nearer to the base of the spur than to the bud that was left 
at winter pruning, and most commonly at the opposite side 
of the spur to it. Either a shoot or a fruitful bud generally 

BA 


8 The Apple Tree, as trained against a Wail. 


pushes from those spurs that were cut entirely down (as spur a, 
Jig. 5); the shoots are cut down, as directed for others. 
Seventh Year. — Winter Pruning. ‘The spurs No. 1. now 
generally have two fruit buds each; they are allowed to retain 
them (as fig. 6. aa). If, instead of a fruitful bud, a shoot pushed 


(as 6), and a fruitful bud was formed at the lower part of it, 
the shoot is then cut off just above it (as at c); but, if there is 
not a fruitful bud formed, it is cut down, so as to leave it half 
an inch long (as at d). ‘The spurs No. 2. have four fruit buds 
left upon each (as eee e); the spurs No. 3. are now cut down, 
so that only one fruitful bud remains (as / ). 

If a fruit bud has been produced from the spur cut entirely 
away (as spur A, fig 5.), it is left entire (as fig. 6.g); but, if a 
shoot, instead of a fruitful bud, it is cut off just above the 
lowest bud, whether a fruitful or a growing bud (as at A, 
spur B). ‘This treatment to such spurs cut entirely down, is 
always pursued to similar ones in future. 

Summer Pruning. This is attended to agreeably to the fore- 
going directions. 

Eighth Year. — Winter Pruning. The spurs No. 1. are 
allowed to retain three fruit buds | a 
each (as jig. 7.aaa), and the 
spurs No. 2. are now cut down 
(as 6); the spurs No. 3. are re- 
gulated as was done to spurs f 
No. 1. and 2. (See Sixth and 
Seventh Year’s Summer Pruning.) 

Summer Pruning. This is performed as before directed. 

Ninth Year. —Winter Pruning. The spurs No. 1. are al- 
lowed to have four fruit 
buds each (as fig. 8. aaaa) ; 
the spurs No. 2. to have 
two fruitful buds (as 66), 
and the spurs No. 3. to 
have three (as ccc). _ 

Summer Pruning. Per- 
formed as before. 


Preservation of Apples. 9 


Tenth Year.—Winter Pruning. ‘The spurs No. 1. are now 
cut down again (as fig. 9. a, a fruitful bud, and 4, a growing 
bud). The spurs No.2. are 
pruned to three fruit buds 
(as ccc), and the spurs 
No. 3. to four fruit buds 
(asdddd). 

It will be observed that 
the spurs No. 1. have now 
been cut down twice; the 
first time in the sixth 
year, and the second in 
the tenth. Thus, those 
spurs cut down to a fruitful bud (as fig. 5. a) have borne 
fruit four years; and those spurs cut entirely down, or to a 
growing bud (as a, 0, fig. 5.), would have only borne fruit 
three years. In these two cases, I always leave the spurs 
with three fruit buds each this winter, and cut them down 
the following winter, unless they have grown very vigorous 
and straggling. 

The system already detailed, of cutting down and renewing 
the spurs, is practised with all others as here directed. Thus, 
the next year, the spurs No. 3. are cut down (as in jig. 6. /), 
and the second year from this time, the spurs No. 2. (as fig. 7. 
6), and in the fourth year from the present time, the spurs 
No. 1. cut down (as fig. 5. a, and jig. 9. a) require to be cut 
down again. 

Conclusion. —'To some the above directions may appear 
tedious and intricate; but it became necessary to enter into 
minute details, in order to illustrate the principle of this sys- 
tem of pruning, the object of which is to obtain spurs always 
at a proper distance from each other, so that a suitable portion 
of sun and air may be admitted to them, and so that the spurs 
may always be kept supplied with young healthy wood and. 
fruitful’ buds. This renewal of spurs may be practised for a 
great many times, and thus those long injurious straggling spurs 
which are so generally shown, may be avoided. 


Arr. II. On the Preservation of Apples. By Mr. Davin 
Gise, Gardener to the Dowager Marchioness of London- 
derry, North Cray Place, Kent. 

Sir, 
I HAVE seen some communications in your excellent Maga- 
zine respecting the preserving of apples, but, as neither of 


a 


10 Preservation of Apples. 


them appears to coincide entirely with my own experience, a 
few additional observations may not be thought unworthy of 
insertion. 

My plan, then, is this:— The fruit should be gathered a 
little before it is quite ripe. In conveying it to the fruit-room 
shallow baskets should be used, in which the apples are to be 
placed singly, and handled as carefully as if they were eggs. 
On reaching the fruit-room the apples are to be taken singly 
out of the baskets, and placed upon shelves a very little apart 
from each other; but care should be taken that the room is 
previously well aired, and the shelves perfectly dry. In winter, 
if the weather is clear and frosty, the windows or ventilators 
should be kept open several hours each day; but when the 
weather is damp they are to be kept entirely shut, and no 
fire should ever be used in the fruit-room, as it always causes 
a damp to arise, which does infinite injury to the fruit. I 
have found by experience that frost does not materially affect 
apples, for I have had apples completely frozen that kept 
equally well with the rest; but then no artificial means must 
be used to thaw the frost. After the Ist of March the fruit- 
room must be close shut up, for I have experienced that the 
admission of much air after that period causes the fruit to 
shrivel up and lose their colour; and they should be handled 
as little as possible after the month of May, nor should they 
ever be wiped until they are about to be used for the table, 
for they soon become unsound after being so treated. Apples 
will be found to keep better and much longer by this simple 
way, than by the usual practice of covering with hay, straw, 
moss, or any thing else whatever; for fruit crowded together 
or covered up with any material will in a short time become 
heated, and deprived not only of its gloss and colour, but also 
of its flavour. In the way recommended above I have kept all 
the codlins and softer kinds of baking apples good to the end 
of June, and the pippins, as well as various sorts of dessert 
apples, to the end of October, with their colour as fresh as 
when they were first gathered, and their flavour not in the 
least deteriorated. I have found, by repeated experiments, 
that apples covered up any time are apt to contract a flavour 
of whatever materials they have been covered with. If laid, for 
example, in brown paper they will taste of tar. I have tried 
apples by wrapping them up in white paper, and, although 
they keep nearly as long in this way, they are always apt to 
shrivel up, which renders them unsightly. Apples, when 
pitted like potatoes, will retain their colour for a long time; 
but this method deteriorates the flavour more than any other, 


Prolongation of the Season of hardy Fruits. 11 


as they become quite insipid after being some months under 
ground. I have experienced also that the fruit of full grown 
trees preserve better, or keep rather longer, than those of 
young trees. I remain, Sir, &c. 

Davip Gres. 
Foot’s Cray, January, 1827. 


The keeping fruits, seeds, and roots in horticulture is open 
to as much improvement from chemistry as the management 
of soils. (Vol. II. p. 405.) We invite chemists who have gardens, 
and especially medical men in the country, to direct: their at- 
tention to the subject, and we wish all gardeners would devote 
some of their leisure hours to the study of chemistry; a suf- 
ficient knowledge of it for their purpose may be obtained 
from £7fe’s Practical Chemistry (8vo. 7s.), and they will find 
this knowledge a great help towards accounting for various 
results which take place in gardens. In the meantime -we 
rely on our medical readers and correspondents. It is highly 
gratifying to us to see the names of so many of this profession 
among our list of authors; our only farther wish is, that we 
may be enabled to increase a taste for horticulture among 
country clergymen, and to induce them to make experiments 
and become contributors. — Cond. 


Art. III. On prolonging the Season of hardy Fruits. By 
Mr. J. Forsts, Gardener to His Grace the Duke of Bed- 
ford, at Woburn Abbey. 

Sir, 

Ir is much to be regretted that the season of those summer 
fruits which form at our table the principal part of the dessert 
is of so short a duration, and that no effectual means have yet 
been devised to prolong it. In the course of my experiments 
for this purpose, I have tried various coverings to ascertain 
the most effective, and have invariably found a covering of 
bunting preferable to all others. By its use, I have success- 
fully retarded peaches, plums, apricots, and cherries, without 
injuring their flavour, to a late period of the season, covering 
the trees just when the fruit begins to ripen. Being of a thin 
woollen texture, it readily admits a sufficiency of light and air 
for maturing the fruit, whilst it lessens the general action of 
the atmosphere. To these advantages is added another of 
yet greater consequence, that of its effectually excluding, if 


12 Prolongation of the Grape Season. 


carefully applied, the wasps and flies, those incessant agents 
of destruction. 

I have practised this method also with grapes, and feel con- 
vinced from experience that, wherever it is used, this delicious 
fruit, the most grateful, perhaps, of all fruits to the palate, in 
the heats of summer and early autumn, may be preserved toa 
very late season. In proof of this, I may just mention that M 
have at the present time (Nov. 20.) some very fine fruit of this 
kind against the walls, which, by the process I describe, will 
keep admirably well till near Christmas. In hot-houses, where 
the trees are trained close under the glass, the entire roof 
must be covered with bunting, admitting at all times plenty of 
air into the house, by sliding down the sashes, or opening the 
ventilators. In damp weather, at an advanced period of the 
year, a little fire occasionally will be necessary to expel the 
moisture. As regards gooseberries and currants, which are a 
luxury at the latter end of the year, the season of them is 
prolonged by enveloping the bushes in either bunting or mats 
when the fruit is changing its colour. My red and white cur- 
rants are thus generally in good preservation till after Christ- 
mas. The kinds of gooseberries I find best adapted for this 
purpose are the late red hairy sorts; the greens and yellows, 
with smooth skins, do not keep so long, nor retain their flavour 
equal to the former. 

In conclusion, I beg to state that I find both gooseberries 
and currants keep best by not being divested of their summer 
shoots till the fruit is all gathered. The bunting will also be 
found an economical covering for wall trees when in blossom. 

Hoping that these cursory observations may, through the 
medium of your important Miscellany, be of some service, 

I remain, Sir, &c. 
J. ForBeEs. 
Woburn Abbey Gardens, Nov. 20. 1826. ; 


Art. 1V. On the Prolongation of the ripe Grape on the 
Vine. By J. M. 
Sir, 

In the middle of June, 1825, I removed six three years old 
black Hamburgh vines from a different part of my garden, 
divesting the roots from all the mould, and replanting them in 
a green-house I had then just completed. The roots were 
planted outside of the house, and the stems were introduced 


Wiring Walls for training Trees. 13 


through apertures in the front; of course the vines were in 
full foliage, but the leaves did not appear to be the least af- 
fected by their removal. They were permitted to grow to 
about twenty feet, and in February, 1826, were pruned to 
about eight feet. In the spring they broke strong, but, with 
very few exceptions, I only permitted one bunch to remain on 
a shoot; some of these weighed 2 Ibs. each, and they were 
ripe by the end of August; but I was desirous to see how 
long I could keep them free from decay, and in a state fit for 
the table. I will not trouble you with my other experiments, 
but that which succeeded best was tying the bunch in a paper 
bag, and leaving it on the vine, by which means I cut a bunch 
the first of March last, in a perfectly good and highly flavoured 
state. I send you this communication as an encouragement 
to other young grape-growers, and to convince them how 
easily, and at how little expense, they may acquire the luxury 
of, I think, the very best and most delicious of our fruits for 
_ the unprecedented period of six months in the year. I ought 
to have stated that mine is literally a green-house, having no 
flue ; using neither tan or dung, but depending entirely on solar 
heat, and a pretty good vine border. 
Brighton, April 22.1827.  -& , J. M. 


Art. V. On fixing Wire against Garden Walls for training 
Fruit Trees. By Mr. Tuomas Incram, Gardener to Her 
Royal Highness the Princess Augusta, at Frogmore. 


Dear Sir, | 

May I be permitted to offer a few remarks on the protec- 
tion of walls from the ill effects of using nails in training trees. 
Every season thousands of holes, or, as they may be termed, 
receptacles for insects, are made by that practice; and the 
walls in the course of time, become next to useless, as is the 
case In many old gardens. 

These evils may in a great measure be obviated, by fixing 
wires to the walls, at six inches apart, placed horizontally, 


leaving about half an inch between the wire and wall, for the 
a 10 = a 


ach 


convenience of tying the shoots; a little matting is all that is 
requisite for that purpose. Small iron pins, two inches long, 
(fig. 10. aa) are driven into the wall, at three feet apart, and 


14 Wiring Walls for training Trees. 


through the holes of these the wire is drawn, and.fixed at the 
extreme ends. 

Part of a wall is wired in the above manner, in these gar- 
dens; the good effects are obvious, and the appearance is very 
neat. I am, dear Sir, &c. 

Tuomas INGRAM. 
Frogmore Gardens, Dec. 11. 1826. 


In a late visit to Frogmore Gardens, we inspected the wall 
to which Mr. Ingram alludes, and fully concur in his recom- 
mendation of the plan. C. Holford, Esq. has employed wire 
for the same purpose, but placed perpendicularly. (Zncyc. of 
Gard.§1575.) We have 
also seen it on the open 
wall, in the garden of Wil- 
liam Strutt, Esq. at Derby, 
applied in semicircles 
(fg. 11.); and on the 
back wall of the vinery 
of Joseph Strutt, Esq. 
of the same place. In 
the latter instance, an- 
nealed wire is used, and a wrinkle is left at the extreme ends 
of each length of wire to allow for contraction and expansion. 
Copper wire is generally preferred, as being less liable to 
rust, for training peach trees, which require so frequently to be 
unnailed and refixed. Wiring of walls appears a very desirable 
practice. Where trees are trained horizontally, such as the pear, 
plum, cherry, &c., it becomes less necessary, especially if the 
precaution is taken of boiling the cast-iron nails in oil (a practice 
first introduced, we believe, by William Atkinson, Hsq.) before 
they are used, to prevent their rusting; and, in drawing them, 
to begin by a pop with the hammer on the head of the nail, to 
lessen its adhesion to the fnortar, &c. In Germany it is a very 
common practice to drive in the nails, and either run lines of 
cord from nail to nail in the manner of Mr. Ingram’s wires, 
or tie the shoots to the nails with bass, and when the shoots re- 
quire to be loosened, or altered in position, the nails are not 
drawn, but the shoots untied and replaced by means of the 
fixed nailsy and probably one or two in addition. ‘This prac- 
tice — leaving the nails as fixtures, —we certainly think, de- 
serves imitation in this country. The trees look a great deal 
neater when newly trained, and decaying strings of bass are 
much less unsightly than taylor-looking, ragged, rotting, black 
and red lists. — Cond. 


Various Hints. 15 


Art. VI. Autobiography, and various Hints. 
By AGRONOME. 


Dear Sir, 

I nave got the pen in hand, and the paper and ink before 
me, and am determined to write something; but what it shall 
be I cannot determine at present. [have dropped the salt, which 
is said to be a very bad omen, and I rather think there must 
be some truth in the saying, for I cannot think what article I 
should pick up next; and when I have laid hold of an article, 
I have no notion how I ought to handle it, nor do I know how 
this letter will look till after L have finished it, any more than I 
do what my volume will be like when I have finished it. You 
must therefore excuse me giving my name or address until you 
have had the quire of paper, at least, when if I have said no- 
thing worthy of being talked about, I will shrink back into my 
former obscurity or littleness, and conclude that my organs 
are not properly formed for making any great noise in the 
world. 

Ah, Sir! the want of a good education is a shocking want 
to such as wish to make a figure in the world. I am fearful 
that my attempts to become an author are little better than 
those of a quack-doctor endeavouring to become a learned 
physician. I am just now labouring under a severe fit of the 
spleen, and perhaps encroaching on what is forbidden in the 
tenth commandment, viz. * envying and grieving at the good 
(education) of my neighbours,” &c. But I will snuff the 
candle, mend my pen, and pluck up my spirits. — Surely I 
was not idle all the time that my neighbours were at college. 
Was I not: watching the progress of the animal and vegetable 
creation ? Was I not learning the management of horses, cows, 
sheep, and pigs? Yes, Sir; I learned to assist the females in 
their extremities, to discipline the males, and to shear the 
sheep according to the literal sense of the word. I have also 
been fortunate in setting broken limbs, or straightening such 
as were crooked ; I learned. butchering very perfectly without 
serving an apprenticeship to the trade, but merely by practising 
on such as had died, or would have died prematurely. I also 
learned to hold the plough without wheels, and to guide the 
horses without a driver; to deposit the various seeds in the 
earth, and to gather and secure the various crops, for the con- 
sumption of man and beast. 

I learned gardening not particularly from choice, but being 
the youngest son of a poor old farmer, I could not afford to 
put myself out to any other trade. In my self-conceit, I shall 


16 Various Hints. 


therefore conclude that I am as learned as my neighbour, 
though my college was neither Oxford nor Cambridge, and 
my kind of learning not so much prized as divinity, law, or 
physic. Yet, in my humble opinion, it ought to be prized as 
the mainspring of all other callings in the world, and I shall 
glory in not having spent seven years of my precious life in 
a college, learning dead languages, or the like. My school 
education was finished at twelve years of age; it is true, I 
afterwards bought a Latin dictionary and grammar, and pored 
over them for some winter evenings, just till I could translate 
a motto on a coat of arms, or an epitaph on a tombstone, or 
the like. I also bought a lot of French books at a sale for 
four shillings, among which was Le Nouveau Testament de 
notre Seigneur. 1 commenced reading in good earnest, and 
before I got through the Apocalypse, I understood it nearly 
as well as the English version, and though I cannot parler a la. 
Francoise, 1 can understand French books tolerably well. I 
was always fond of books, but the book which did me the 
most good, or, as I may say, “ let me get my head above 
water,” was Hutton’s Mathematics, in 2 vols., which I re- 
deemed out of a pawnbroker’s shop for one of my companions. 
I got a case of instruments, and commenced operations with 
such enthusiasm, that, in far less time than I had calculated 
upon, I got acquainted with far more problems and theorems 
than ever I had occasion for in practice. 

I would just here give a hint to all young gardeners, &c., to 
be sure to get perfectly acquainted with mensuration in all its 
various cases, as when once a man can measure every kind of 
tradesman’s work, it is a grand step towards not being obliged 
to work very hard himself, particularly after he becomes very 
old, and not very able to work very hard; and indeed no gar- 
dener should look upon himself as any thing superior to a 
common labourer, who cannot make himself thus useful on a 
gentleman’s premises. 

The scale and compasses should be very familiar to every 
gardener. What is the use of visiting distant gardens, &c., 
if one cannot bring home dimensions near enough to imitate 
or improve upon? And here I must give myself a severe wipe, 
for though I can take the plans of buildings, and the like, 
I am the worst at taking off landscapes, &c., in the world. 
Drawing, indeed! why, I never could write fit to be seen, 
much less make pictures. One study I was always very fond 
of, and that was the nature of fluids; the learned call it hy- 
drostatics, and pneumatics, but I merely mean air, fire, and 
water. From the first time that I saw a conservatory flue 


Vinery for early and late Grapes. 7 


' discharge its smoke on alevel grass-plot, without any shaft or 
chimney, [have never been at a loss to cure the most obstinate 
smoky flue or chimney that came in my way. I should like 
to remind all gardeners who have any thing to do with drains, 
or lead pipes, or waterworks, &c., not to forget the powers of 
the syphon. A most eminent stone-mason and builder in- 
formed me, that he lately lost forty pounds by merely forgetting 
the powers of the syphon. He cut a great drain through a 
stubborn, yet useless rock, to lay his quarry dry; whereas 
thirty pounds would have purchased a lead pipe, which would 
have answered every purpose, and been a good pipe after the 
work was completed: and I may add that I have seen several 
forty pounds thrown away in a similar manner, but whether 
from forgetting, or from never knowing, I leave the joint-stock- 
water-companies to judge. But I perceive I have again nearly 
filled my sheet without entering upon any subject, for this seems 
only a sort of autobiography ; but I have picked up a subject 
this moment which will likely occupy a good many sheets, and 
that is, I will describe a situation for a mansion-house, then 
build it, and all its necessary appendages, then decorate and 
beautify it, with all the luxuries that England can afford; but 
lest I get giddy-headed, and build castles in the air, I will at 
the present subscribe myself Yours, &c. 
. AGRONOME. 


Art. VII. Design for a Vinery, by which the earliest and 
the latest Grapes may be obtained in the same Structure. By 
Mr. A. MippLeTon. 

Sir, 

I wave long had an opinion that the construction of vine- 
ries might be improved, as well on the principle of economy, 
as for extending the advantages to be derived from them; but, 

being an obscure individual, and a stranger in this country, I 

have not had the boldness to’submit my plan to the notice of 

those better qualified to judge of it than myself. I may in the 
first place refer to the ordinary way of making a border for 
vines, which I think is generally erroneous. A pit three or 
four, feet deep is dug out, and filled with rich compost; and, 
not being properly drained, the lower part of this compost 
soon becomes saturated with stagnant water, altogether un- 
suitable for: the vine. Instead of this, I recommend that 


Vou. ILI. — No. 9.. ‘04 


18 Vinery for early and late Grapes. 


all the border (fg. 12. aaa) be made above the surface 
(i b), especially for early forcing, and that sufficient width 
should be given instead of unnecessary depth. This will be 


12 


a 


found far more suitable for the plants, as at no time does the 
vine require much water. In the next place, and in order to 
obtain every advantage of such a building, I would propose 
to have the house in two divisions (c d), having vines planted 
in each to be forced separately. The back division (c) I 
should consider the best adapted for early forcing; and I pro- 
pose to enclose it completely from the other, by removing the 
lower sloping sash (e), and fixing it by temporary means (/ ), 
so as to include all the plants, the soil, and the return of the 
flue (g) belonging to the first division. A steam boiler (/) 
may or may not be made use of both for heating the 
atmosphere of the upper division, and for heating the soil 
over the steam vault (2). To the practical gardener I need 
notadd more. ‘The advantages appear to be threefold: first, 
a succession of fruit from April or May to February, by forc- 
ing the back division from Christmas to May, and only using 
fire in the front division to ripen the wood; secondly, by the 
elevation of the border and a proper preparation of the bot- 
tom by paving or otherwise, the luxuriance of the vines will 
be diminished, and their productiveness and the high flavour 
of the fruit increased ; thirdly, by means of the steam vault 
(z), as complete a command is obtained of the roots of the 
early division as if they were in a pot, and steam may be ad- 
mitted to this division either to heat the water of a cistern (4), 
or directly from the supply pipe (2), which will deliver the 


Curl and Worm in the Potato. 19 


steam to the cistern (4), to the atmosphere of the house (c), 
or to the steam vault (z) at pleasure. 


I am, Sir, &c. 
A. Mippieton. 
Clapton Nursery, March, 1827. 


Art. VIII. On the Culture of the Potato, in respect to Ear- 
liness, the Curl, the Worm, and other Circumstances. By a 
DENBIGHSHIRE GARDENER. 

Sir, 

Ir has been a very old custom to obtain potatoes for sets from 
cold situations and poor soils, it being conceived that a change 
from such a soil and climate would make them grow better 
and more luxuriant in rich soils and warm situations, like 
removing an animal from a cold country and short pasture to 
the rich pastures in the warm valleys, not attributing it to the 
true cause —that they were unripe. I have endeavoured to 
trace the effects, long and well known, to their true causes, 
and to combine the whole in one connected system, which, if 
correctly attended to, will produce every variety of the potato 
six weeks earlier than they are at present obtained, without 
any additional trouble or expense whatever. 

Obtaining a crop six weeks earlier than usual is an object 
deserving the highest consideration ; its coming into use at the 
season of the year when the poor man’s garden affords him no 
new vegetables, when the stock of the old potatoes is become 
short and dear, and, withal, so bitter, unpalatable, and un- 
wholesome; to have then a crop of new potatoes is a delicacy 
indeed, especially to the poor, depending so much for their 
support upon the potato; still more so to the Irish poor, to 
whom the potato may be said to be the staff of life. 

I have planted several rows of early pink-eyes from ripe 
tubers, which are now coming up, almost all curled. Not a 
curl appears upon any of the same variety from unripe tubers, 
although planted within a few yards of each other. The last 
autumn being warm and long, enabled the worm to grow 
stronger and more vigorous to attack the potato, in which it 
made holes, and therein, perhaps, deposited its eggs, which, 
nourished by the heat, acquired life and strength ; and, after 
the potato was planted and began to grow soft, it grew vigor- 
ous, and preyed upon its sap, rendering the plant weak and 
curled, I am inclined to think that the worm is the cause of 

c 2 


20 Cucumber and Meton Structure, 


the curl ; and that, if potatoes intended for sets were taken up 
before being ripe (before they are full-grown), the worm will not 
have attacked them; and that, if it has, exposing the potatoes 
to the sun, as I have described (Vol. IT. p. 171.), will kill the 
worm before it has deposited any of its eggs. This hint I sub- 
mit to your intelligent readers. I must own, however, that it 
requires more experiments than Ihave yet made, to come to a 
final conclusion on the subject. j 

The worms prevailed last autumn in the potato, to that de- 
structive degree, that they consumed much of the wheat sown 
upon the potato ground, before they were destroyed by the 
frost. In this and the adjoining counties, in almost all the 
ground where potatoes were grown, large patches appear 
naked, without a plant of wheat, although the plants now 
remaining are strong and healthy. 

Allow me to impress on the minds of your readers the facts, 
that taking up the potatoes intended for seed next year 
before they are ripe (before they are full-grown), and exposing 
them to the sun for a month or six weeks, and, at planting 
time, observing the eye-cut and placing it upward, will secure, 
without any other trouble or expense, a crop of every variety 
of the potato, six weeks earlier than the same variety of the 
potato, if allowed to grow ripe, will produce. 

I am, Sir, &e. 
June 9. 1827. A DENBIGHSHIRE GARDENER. 


a 


Art. [X. Description of a Structure, to be heated by Dung, 
Jor growing Cucumbers and Melons. By MEntor. 
Sir, 

Brine anxious to acquire a knowledge of the best method 
of raising cucumbers and melons, without either pit, steam, or 
fire heat, I have tried in succession all the new inventions, 
from Mr. Vachell’s bed raised on faggots, to the last new plan 
in the Horticultural Transactions, of resting the frame on four 
brick pillars, as recommended by Mr. Dickens, and I have not 
been satisfied with any of them, as they do not give sufficient 
bottom heat, and the little there is is too soon expended ; and, 
if a fresh supply of hot stable-dung is not in readiness, the 
plants are frequently injured past remedy. To avoid this evil, 
I have therefore now made up my bed in a different manner 
from any of the plans which have been made public in the 
Horticulturgl Transactions or in your Magazine, but com- 


to be heated by Dung. 21 


bining some part of each, in the most simple and economical 
form possible. This I have accomplished by supporting my 
frame, of two lights, on six posts, each about three feet high, 
placed in two rows at the back and front (ig. 13.) ; these posts 
are braced together at the 15 

top by pieces of fir, about 
two inches thick and three 
inches wide; these are halved 
together at the corners, that 
the frame may have an equal 
bearing. The two ends have 
three pieces of inch-deal, . 
nailed across them from back 
to front, as has also the centre, by which the space under the 
frame is divided into two compartments. ‘The upper part, on 
which the frame rests, has rails nailed across from side to 
side, leaving openings of three or four inches between each, 
except in the front, where a space is left about nine inches 
wide. ‘This is covered bya board having six round holes 
sawed in at equal distances, each six inches in diameter, which 
holes are covered by as many common flower-pots, reversed 
and luted down (see jig. 13.), so as to prevent the steam from 
passing into the bed, except when wanted; for which purpose 
the holes at the top of the pots are fitted with plugs which can be 
removed at pleasure. These reversed pots appear to answer all 
the purposes of the flue in M‘Phail’s pit, and I find them very 
useful in assisting to throw a fine heat into the bed. I have 
added these pots on the suggestion of Mr. W. Mitchinson, who 
is, I believe, a contributor to your Magazine, and is a very 
clever and scientific gardener. Over the other openings, laths 
or other pieces of straight wood are nailed, but not entirely 
close. On this flooring I put first a layer of straw an inch or 
two thick, and then about the same depth of very rotten stable 
dung; but I have not allowed either the straw or rotten dung 
to overlay the board on which the reversed pots are fixed. I 
then placed the frame on the stage, and filled the two com- 
partments with hot stable-dung, and added a light lining round 
the outside nearly to the top of the frame. This lining is 
covered by four broad boards to keep off the rain, and to draw 
up the heat ; under each light I placed as usual about a cubic 
foot of compost, and in forty-eight hours the heat came up 
sufficiently to warm the earth in the bed; but, as the steam 
came partially through the stratum of rotten dung, I pressed 
it very firmly down, and particularly so round the sides, which 
entirely excluded it, and the following day I put in my plants, 

Cis 


22 "Movable Cucumber Bed. 


since which time I have had a constant growing heat in the bed, 
seldom lower than 70° by night, and in the day from 80° to 
85°, according to the quantity of air admitted. The advan- 
tage which I expect to derive from this method is, that when 
the heat begins to decline, I can, by taking down half of either 
the back or front lining, remove the dung from one of the 
compartments and replace it with a fresh supply, which will 
renovate the decaying heat for at least a fortnight, and when 
it again declines I can remove the other compartment, still 
continuing the slight linings, which may, if necessary, be also 
renewed ; but hitherto my bed has not required any assistance, 
although the weather has been extremely unfavourable for 
early forcing, not so much from frost as from high and cold 
winds from E. and N.E. I am, Sir, &c. 

March 10. 1827. MEnTor. 


June 21.— In a postscript of this date to a communica- 
tion from “ Mentor” on another subject, he informs us that 
the movable frame for early forcing has fully answered every 
expectation; that the first cucumber cut from it was fifteen 
inches long, without a seed, and from the time it was set was 
only sixteen days in growing to that size. — Cond. 


Art. X. Suggestions for a movable Cucumber Bed to be 
heated by Dung. By Mr. Tuomas Hawkins. 


Mr. Hawkins suggests the idea ofan iron rim the lengthand 
breadth of a common hot-bed frame, having a rebate, on which 
spars or boards could be supported so as to forma bottom for 
the mould, and a commen frame might be set on the same 
rebate for the sides. ‘‘ Screws with handles might be fixed on 
occasionally at the four corners of the iron bottom, whereby 
four men might be enabled to remove or shift it with its con- 
tents to a new or fresh-made bed prepared for its reception, 
and the old one might then be converted into a new bed for 
another frame, or put to any other use. As I have heard 
many gardeners complain of the uncertainty of the regular dif- 
fusion of heat by means of linings to hot-beds, I think, by 
adopting this method, it would completely remove the defect.” 

The Haw, near Gloucester, 

March, 1827. 


' Cucumber Frame in a Vinery. 25 


Art. XI. On a Mode of procuring a Crop of Cucumbers dur- 
ing Winter, by forming the Hot-bed within a Vinery. By 
Mr. James ReEep. 


Tue gardener that is most successful in growing early 
cucumbers is generally considered clever in every other part 
of his business. ‘This is not altogether without reason, for the 
man who bestows the necessary attention to keeping up the 
proper degree of heat, giving and taking away air, covering 
and uncovering, &c., to a cucumber frame, during the winter 
months, is likely to be of regular habits and careful attention, 
and these qualities go far towards ensuring success in whatever 
is taken in hand. 

The duties of gardeners in small places near large towns 
are generally very different from those of their brethren in the 
country. In the former case, their attention is confined to a few 
objects, and of course greater excellence is attained; in the latter, 
the gardener has often the charge of extensive shrubberies, park 
scenery, and distant plantations, and these necessarily take 
him away great part of his time from the kitchen-garden, and 
leave him dependent upon his assistants. It was the experi- 
ence of the uncertain results connected with this dependence, 
which led me to the plan of placing my winter cucumber bed 
im a vinery, and to manage the vinery and bed in the manner 
I am now about to describe. 

This vinery was forty feet long, sixteen feet broad, twelve- 
feet high at the back, and five feet and a half high in the front,. 
with one fireplace, and a flue which passed round the house.. 
The air could be admitted both by the top and front lights. 

On or about the 20th of September, cucumber seeds were 
sown on a moderate hot-bed in the open air, and treated in 
the usual manner till they were ready to ridge out. ‘This ge- 
nerally happened about the beginning of November, at which 
time the shoots of the vines were withdrawn from the house, 
and a dung bed formed in the floor in the usual way. After 
placing the frame and mould on the bed, it may be left without 
the lights till the rank steam has passed off. After this the 
plants being placed in the hills, and the sashes put on, the 
following are the leading features of management during the 
winter ;: — 

Make fires in the evening, so as to warm the air of the 
house to from 56° to 60°, and in very severe frosts it may be 
raised to 70°. In the mornings of the coldest weather, and 
shortest days, make a strong fire, so as to raise the heat to 
nearly 70°, when the house is shut up. About eight o’clack 

c 4 


24 Raising the Vine from Layers. 


and from that time to half-past nine, give plenty of fresh air, 
by opening the front sashes and top lights, after which, and 
during the remainder of the day, give plenty of air to the cu- 
animes, by tilting the sashes in fie usual way. 

In mild ‘weather and during sunshine the lights may be 
taken entirely off the amuses for some Rowe each day; 
and, immediately after forming new linings, the top lights may 
be left down a little all night, to permit the escape of any 

rank steam. 

The advantage of this mode of growing cucumbers during 
winter is the comparative certainty of an early and good crop, 
at one third of the trouble and expense of the common me- 
thod out of doors. ‘The expense is lessened by no covering 
up being required, and by all the labour attending renewal of 
linings, “Re. &e., admitting of being done in wet weather, 

By this practice fruit may be cut in January. ‘The vines may 
be introduced in the beginning of March, and will break 
beautifully and regularly in consequence of the genial steam 
of the dung. In April the shade of the vine leaves will have 
rendered the house too dark for the culture of the cucumber ; 
and, as by this time cucumbers are plentiful in the common hot- 
beds out of doors, the bed in the house may be cleared out, and 
the vines treated in the usual way till the following November. 

Iam, Sir, &c. 
Bristol, 24. Broad Street, James REEp. 

January 11. 1827. 


Art. XII. On a@ superior Method of raising the Vine Srom 
Layers. By Mr. W. Gren. 


Tue following method of propagating grape vines in the 
open air succeeds far better than any other: Make a layer or 
layers in pots of the size No. 32, any time before June; for, 
if they are laid ever so early in the spring, they will make no 
roots before the middle of July. It is not necessary to ring 
pierce, twist, or tongue the shoots before they are laid, as 
they will put forth abundance of roots without any operation 
of this kind ; they only require to be well supplied with water. 
Separate the layers from the stool in the last week in August ; 
plant them immediately where they are intended to remain; 
keep them well supplied with water during the remainder 
of the autumn, and they will make.roots a yard. iong before 
the winter sets in. Shorten the young plants to one or two 


Horticultural Memorandum Bock. 25 


eyes, and they will shoot strong and fine in the succeeding 
spring. ; 
If they are suffered to remain on the old stool after the last. 
week in August, it will be found upon inspection that they 
have less and less roots every time they are examined (as 
they die off); and, when not planted before the spring, when 
that time arrives it will be found that there is scarcely any 
root left alive. The points upon which I lay most stress are 
these, —to keep them well supplied with water, to separate 
the young piants from the old stool not later than the last: 
week in August, and to plant them immediately where they 
are intended to remain. I intend these directions to apply 
solely to vines propagated in the open air without any heat or 
other: artificial assistance. W. G. 
Stepney, February. 


We have seen the above mode put in practice; a leaky pot 
of water, or a tuft of wet moss kept wet, being put over 
each layer, and: believe it to be, as our correspondent says 
it is, far preferable to any other. As to any difference in the 
nature of plants raised from layers, and plants raised from 
buds or short cuttings, as alleged by some authors, we 
think the opinion erroneous. — Cond. 


Art. XIII. Suggestions for Improvements on the Horticultural 
Memorandum Book of a Couniry Clergyman... By Surro.- 
CIENSIS. 

Dear Sir, vias 
I BEG leave to suggest to your correspondent on the “ De- 
scription and Use of a Horticultural Memorandum Book” 

(Vol. II. p. 319.), a little variation in form and arrangement, 

by which I conceive a very complete register of all work rela- 

tive to the different crops in a garden may be compressed into 

a very narrow compass, and a most useful book formed for 

reference at any future time. | 
My plan is to rule in a common memorandum book co- 

lumns in the form of the copy which I enclose. In the first 
of these I write an alphabetical list of all the vegetables I grow 
in my garden; then under every month I have three open 
spaces, headed “ sown,” “planted,” ‘gathered ;” under one 
of these I merely insert the day of the particular month on: 
which either of the operations is performed opposite the 
name to which it applies; and this gives me a register of the 
whole progress of my crops through the year. 


26 Grafting the Orange. 


The time of pruning trees, thinning fruit, and its ripening, 
can be arranged in a similar way, and it would be equally 
easy to enter memoranda of any information of work to be 
performed, collected from books, or even conversation ; for 
instance, “ March, figs in pots, Z. G M.ii. 236.” This, written 
in pencil in January, would show the work was to be done in 
March, and where the directions could be found. By the 
same rule, if, in going through a garden or in conversation, a 
different time of sowing or planting of any crop appears to 
answer better than that now adopted, only place the initials 
of the informant and the date under the month opposite the 
vegetable. Suppose in May I see a very fine crop of early 
cabbages, and I find they were sown a few days earlier than 
usual, say August 8th, I should, opposite “cabbage,” under 
August, write with pencil “1. C. L. 8th;” this would refresh 
my memory, not only as to the day of doing the work, but 
as to my informant as well. 

I remain, dear Sir, 
June 2. 1827. SUFFOLCIENSIS. 


MEMORANDA OF CROPS. 


7 


‘Jan. |. Feb. |March.| April. | May. |_June. 

2 bel so i} 3 3 bel 

Neate sl2} jslS] islet |slel isle! jsig 

s|DlO} -/2) 0) -|di ao] -| Dio]. S)o| - 1 o 

SISiSi\SlelSiSlelsis\ elselsiaisisja'is 

S/S |5 S185 (S(e13| 2 |Si2/S1s/5/5 ls 

IPH | |c2 Bal jap PAID | 33 | Ay JO ca | /O | 

Broccoli, Cape - SASS ey Ale Poon ST Sah Si SiS ey ares 
Broccoli, late purple aes shy (esl Pestle eel feed pe AT eo | eon Ss aeca yaeenl ET pies) hay hee elie 
Celery, in frame = Stalls ol@nlsihollai oll olf SiegOls Wal Sl Sissi 
Lettuces, in ditto = SS elolsia Si Siva sihsiloll OW SAW SI Sisal Sie 
Onions - = Se PSP bs) oT Patil Sadboll apelin 
Potatoes, onions, and bulbs ~ |-/-]|.-|-|-|-]-/14) -] - ENE St a re Pes 
Peas, early frame, in hot-bed SPA Wid odie ol TCO Sal Ss Woe) SIG SH ele 
Ditto, on south quarter eit ean) esr foe eer co here TT) ba ean IT LL a RS 
Ditto, Bishop’s, on ditto So Paps pete! WAN St A Wa an seuss 


* Pricked out. 


Art. XIV. Account of a rapid and successful Mode of graft- 
ing the Orange. By Mr. James Reeve, Gardener to G. 
F. Evans, Esq. and Lady Carberry, Laxton Hall, North- 


amptonshire. 
Sir, 
Havine made what I consider a great improvement in the 
propagation of the orange, and others of its tribe, and think- 


ing it deserves publicity, I beg leave to trouble you with the 
following statement : — 


Grafting the Orange. 27 


Experience has long induced me to raise my stocks intended 
for oranges from the seeds of the lemon. ‘These, when two 
years old, are fit to receive the grafts. For two months before 
this operation, they are kept in a cool situation, and only 
protected from frost, where they remain till about ten days 
previous to the 1st of May, the proper season for grafting. A 
hot-bed composed entirely of leaves is prepared for. them, in 
which the stocks are placed in a temperature of from 68 to 72 
degrees. ‘The scions being selected, they are steeped in milk- 
warm water for about five minutes; the stocks are cut down 
to within three inches of the surface of the mould, with one 
stroke of the knife, m a sloping direction, leaving a smooth 
surface about an inch in length, on which the graft is properly 
fitted, and immediately and accurately secured by bass; after 
grafting they are replaced in the hot-bed for about six weeks, 
and during the first fortnight are kept constantly shaded and 
closely shut up from air, except only at such times as the frame 
is opened for the purpose of giving water, which should always 
be given in a lukewarm state. 

In a fortnight or three weeks the stocks and scions will be 
found united, the bass may now be removed, and the plants 
allowed a little air, but with care for the first few days, at 
the same time shading from the sun. ‘The air may be pro- 
gressively increased, until it reaches the usual temperature of 
the orangery, where they may then be placed. 

I attribute much of this expeditious success, to the fine ge- 
nial heat which arises from a bed of oak leaves ; its sweet and 
humid quality is peculiarly suitable Hh 
to vegetation, and in such cases as all) 
this is absolutely necessary. So for- 
tunate have I been in this practice, @ 
that out of nearly ten dozen plants 
only two failures happened. 

Lemons, citrons, and shaddocks, 
I treat exactly in the same way, 
and with corresponding success: 
but what I would particularly call 
your attention to is the compara- 
tive excellence of the lemon stock 
over that of the orange; and, in 
order to prove this satisfactorily, I 
have sent you two portraits taken 
indiscriminately from among many 
others; the one ( fig. 14.) is an 
Orange, on an orange stock, and the 


28 New naming Tally. 


other ( fig. 15.) is 15 


also an orange, but = 
ore  ~ 


erafted on a lemon 
stock; they were 
orafted at the same 
time, and through- 
out have had ex- 
actly similar treat- 
ment in every res- 
pect. Four or five 
dozen of each were 
erafted in May, 
1824; those on the 
lemon stocks are 
greatly superior, 
and on an average 
are from seven to 
nine inches higher 
than the _ others. 
The growth and 
habit of those on 
lemon stocks are : 
also more robust in the wood, finer and cleaner in the foliage, 
and stronger in the flowers and fruit. 
Iam, Sir, &c. 
Laxton Hall, Northamptonshire, JaMES REEVE. 
March 18. 1827. 


Art. XV. Description of a new Tally for naming Plants, 
with a Note on grafting the Camellia. By Mr. Stewart 
Murray, C.M.H.S. 

Sir, 

I srnp you herewith a new tally pin (fg. 16.), which in 
my opinion will obviate many of the inconveniencies attendant 
upon such as I have hitherto seen used in Botanic Gardens. 
It consists of a cast-metal standard with a long square head, 
in the front of which is a hollow box, into which the ticket 
with the name written thereon (a) is put; then a pane of glass 
is cut to the size (6), and fitted in over the name with putty 
like the pane of a window. ‘The ticket on which the name or 
number is written may be of wood, tin, or stone ware. I 
prefer the wood, as easily written upon by a carpenter’s 
black lead pencil, and also because it is not liable to rust. 


Naming Tally, and grafting the Camella. 29 


The dimensions of this ey . 
tally . will always. depend WF ecinau 
upon the choice and object /f myrtillus ||| 
of those who wish to use it. /2-————_s 
The.expense per 100 of the ~~ a 
size sent is, when completed 
for use, about 23s. ; not, how- 
ever, including. the value of 
men’s time in writing and 
glazing, &c., as this can be 
done at such seasons as their 
time is of the least value. 

The cast-iron of the size 
sent cost 20s. per 100, when 
metal was high, a year ago; 
the wooden tickets shen 
1s. 6d. per 100; cutting the 
glass from waste fragments, 
&c., 1s. per 100; and perhaps 
putty for 100 may cost 6d.; 
in all, 23s. 

The use of small bettles 
with water, attached to 
the end of the graft, in 
working Camellias, &c., as 
noticed Vol. II. p.33., is 
good; but I have, for these three years past, practised with 
success pushing the end of the graft into a small potato, or 
piece of turnip, &c., and then working by the middle of the 
graft as in the process of inarching. In this way I grafted 
some double-flowering cherries in Thies years old wood, mich 
flowered very well the following summer. The application is 
cheaper, more convenient, sal less liable to accidents than 
phials of water. I am, Sir, &c. 

Glasgow Botanic Garden, Stewart Murray. 

April 23. 1827. 


Se i an pe 


<-- 


We certainly think Mr. Murray’s tally the best which we 
have seen for the open air; and chiefly because, although the 
iron may become corroded from the effects of time or the 
neglect of painting, the writing and the glass will remain as 
clear and legible as at the first. The price is remarkably low; 
neat cast-iron tallies cost, at the foundery at London, from 25s. 
to 30s. a hundred, and the expense of painting and naming is 
to be added. — Cond. 


30 Destruction of the Aphis lanigera. 


Arr. XVI. Description of a Machine for dusting Fruit 
Trees with powdered Lime or other Powder. By C. P. of 


York. 
Sir, 

Arver the instrument described by Mr. Samuel Curtis, in 
Vol. I. p. 415. of your excellent Magazine, for the ejectment of 
lime-dust, perhaps you may think it worth while to record 
another one for the same purpose, which I had constructed 
several years ago, and which, although I have taken the pains 
to set forth its advantages to several individuals, I have not 
yet seen any where in use. ‘This instrument consists of a 
pair of common bellows, with this difference only, that the 
lower board and valve are omitted, and a piece of tin, resem- 
bling in shape those tin scales used in the retail of meal 
(fig. 17. a), in the flat - 17 
end of which (0) are = 
two small valves, one 
fourth of an inch dia- 
meter, with a screw- ; 
hole to introduce the dust. It is evident that the air ia 
enters from the valves by the up-stroke of the bellows raises 
the dust in the interior, which is ejected by the down-stroke ; 
and, by repetition, the whole powder introduced, capable of 
rising from the draught, will be thrown out. 

The transplanter, described by you as of French invention, 
opening upon hinges, (Vol. I. p. 268. fg. 53.) was the invention 
of the Rev. Mr. Thornhill, vicar of Staindrop, Durham, up- 
wards of twenty years ago, and was used extensively in the 
transplanting of turnips on his farm. I have one at present 
from him, and I use it not only for the above purpose, but in 
plunging pots. I remain, dear Sir, yours, truly, 

York, April, 1826. C. P. 


Arr. XVII. _ Account of a successful Attempt to destroy the 
A phis lanigera. By Mr. R. Turner. 
Sir, 
I Bec leave to communicate, fo 

» for the benefit of your readers 
that, in the year 1823, I had an apple tree, a seedling pear- 
main, with several others, attacked by the A’phis lanigera, 
introduced into my garden by some trees purchased the pre- 


On describing Fruit Trees. 31 


vious year from Newark. I was desirous of trying experi- 
ments for the purpose of ridding my garden of the pest; and, 
in the first instance, I tried lime in a state of mixture, then in 
solution, but without effect. Next I had recourse toa mixture 
of three parts of soap-lees (liquor sod), and one of oil of 
turpentine, which I applied with a brush, and repeated after 
an interval of three days; and, to my delight, found I had 
completely destroyed the insect, and my trees have been free 
from it ever since. 

With respect to Mr. James Dann’s mixture, I have to ob- 
serve that tar, if diluted with a little oil of turpentine, would 
be preferable to his recipe, as I have a decided objection to 
the use of metallic solutions, well knowing, to my cost, that 
they are in most instances destructive to vegetation. 

I remain, Sir, &c. ! 
Grantham, May 21. 1827. R. Turner. 


Art. XVIII. Remarks on the Disappointments incident to 
Orchardists, and on describing and characterising Fruit 


Trees. By W. R. Y. 
Sir, 
ConsipERING your Magazine equally valuable as a vehicle 
for correcting what may be detrimental to the science of hor- 
ticulture, as to disseminate and elicit opinion, I beg to enclose 
some hasty remarks. 

I have expended trouble and cash in the department of 
orcharding, but the disappointments which I have experienced 
are sufficient to check any future experiments. 

I allude to the trifling chance an amateur has of obtaining 
the identical trees he orders. I do not challenge individuals. 
I have received packages from the first nurseries; yet, out of 
three or four hundred trees, I have, and shall have, to re-graft 
a third part; and, next spring, to graft four pears, six years old, 
which, I suspect, have never yet felt the knife. This alle- 
gation is not confined to apples and pears, but from vines to 
wall trees, particularly to plums, and also to melon seed. 

I do not say the trees received are worthless, but I have 
not obtained the desired sorts; so that, instead of possessing 
numerous specimens, I have duplicates of many, and none of 
several well recommended fruits. 

I certainly have raised a valuable orchard, but have not 
ridden my “hobby.” It is highly productive of profit, but 
not consonant to my original design. 


&9 


32 Expenses of a Gardencr and Butler, 

To obviate this evil, perhaps higher wages might be giver 
by nurserymen to lifters and Jabellers of sale trees; and, to 
admit of it, a little higher value might be set upon the same : 
for the Northern nurserymen cannot supply them at a guinea 
a score, and give the attention I recommend. 

Men of some science might also partly reduce the evil, by 
a full description of their best fruits. Ray, Miller, Martin, 
Forsyth, and Nicol have all partially described the best fruit 
trees, but we have not that ample detail given in describing 
the plants, leaf, calyx, &c., which is necessary. 

My own observations teach me that nearly all fruit trees 
might be characterised, so much, at least, as would identify 
the same, by the first leafing. - The description of Mr. Wil- 
mot’s strawberry (Vol. I. p. 230.) is not sufficient to enable me 
to reject a spurious sert, and yet the texture of even the leaves 
alone, I should suppose, might do so, judging from other 
known species. The red Roman Nectarine, for instance, has 
a smooth, while the Newington has a jagged leaf. What can 
be more dissimilar than the blossom of the Noblesse and 
Gallande Peach. The Moorfowl-ege Pear may be always 
characterised by the redness of its shoots, and the foot-stalks 
of its leaves; and I am of opinion, that if gardeners would 
accurately describe the trees they recommend, the aspect and 
soil best suited to them, the time the fruit ripens and decays, 
with their several uses and properties, they would conduce 
much to the spirit of orcharding, and you might enrich your 
valuable publication with useful information. 

The Transactions published by the Horticultural Society is 
‘a sealed book to country practitioners; quarto paper, large 
print, and extensive margin little suit our pockets. The 
publication, to do service to practical men, must be suited to 
their means. | We vegetate slowly in these northern regions, 
and require nursing; you southerns rapidly increase with the 
reaction of every genial shower. We must contipue to be fed 
with children’s food. You have supplied us with much, and 
I hope you wiil continue long to do so. 


Sheffield, July, 1826. W. R. Y. 


Art. XIX. Comparative View of the Expenses of a Gardener 
and a Butler to their Employer. By W.S. 
Sir, 
Concervine that the claims of gardeners to a more ample 
remuneration are well founded, I trust that the pages. of the 


Expenses of a Gardener and Butler. 33 


Gardener’s Magazine will be open to the discussion of this 
subject, as well as to that of every other connected with the 
advancement of horticulture and its professors. 

I would venture to suggest to the nurserymen, that it is in 
their power materially to promote the comfort of gardeners, 
consistently with the benefit of all parties concerned. I would 
suggest that when applied to, as they frequently are, to recom- 
Mend gardeners at an insufficient salary, they would, in a 
reasonable and candid manner, remind their applicants of the 
nature of the services which they require ; and that these ser- 
vices, if paid below their fair value, will never be performed 
so well as if the performer were conscious of being properly 
treated. It can only be from not having this properly pointed 
out to them, that gentlemen offer much lower wages to a 
gardener, than to other servants whose duties have much less 
of responsibility attached to them, and who require much less 
mental cultivation auc general knowledge to fit them for their 
situations. 

Let us take see case of a gardener and a butler, and sup- 
pose a gentleman to take two boys of ‘fourteen years old into 
his service, in order to bring them up for these two depart- 
ments of his establishment. ‘The boy in the garden will be 
considered well paid with 7s. a week for the first year, and 
one shilling advance each year, for the next three years, 
making the sum of 88/. 8s. for the four years. ‘Then suppose 
the other boy to be placed in the stables for the first four 
years; he will perhaps have 4/. for the first year, and 1/. ad- 
vance each of the three succeeding years, and 6s. per week 
for board wages, with two suits of clothes value 8/. each a 
year, making the sum of 116/. 8s. for the four years. Then 
the next three years the youth in the garden will have 11s. 
12s. and 13s. per week, making the sum of 93/. 12s. for the 
three last years of his apprenticeship. Then suppose the 
other youth to be taken into the house as steward’s-room-boy ; 
he will have 9/. and 10/. a year, with 7s. per week board 
wages, and two suits of clothes a year which will cost 10/. 
each, making the sum of 114/. 12s. for the three years. 
Again, suppose the young gardener to ‘be four years a jour- 
neyman, and have 14s. per week, which will amount to 145/. 
12s.; and the other young man made footman or under-butler 
for four years with 18/7. a year wages, 8s. a weck board wages, 
and two suits of clothes each year, and a great coat every two 
years; this will amount to about 14/. 5s. each year, making 
the sum of 202/. 4s. for the four years. Thus the house ser- 
vant will be found to have cost the gentleman more by 115/. 

Vox; III. — No. 9. D 


34 The Art of ornamenting, blooming, 


19s. to qualify him for being his butler, than the other has to 
qualify him for being his gardener ; and after each is appointed 
to his new station, the butler will receive more, by from 5/. to 
10/. a year, than the gardener. I think, therefore, there is suf- 
ficient reason for remonstrance, as the profession of a gardener 
requires incomparably greater application of mind than that 
of a butler; a gardener is also expected to have attained a 
greater stock of general knowledge than the other, and not to 
be behind him or any servant in attention to his duty, fidelity 
to his master’s interest, and general trustworthiness. 

Iam, Sir, &c. 
December 19. 1826. W.S. 


Art. XX. The Art of ornamenting, showing, preserving, and 
packing Cucumbers, Grapes, Plums, and other Fruits whose 
principal Beauty consists in their delicate Bloom. By Mr. 
Rosert Gaven, Gardener at Millbrook, near South- 
ampton. 


From a manuscript with the above title, Mr. Gauen has 
permitted us to give the following abridgment. ‘The article 
at length is in the course of being printed, and will be sold 
by Mr. Eddy at No. 354. Oxford Street, together with a box 
of Mr. Gauen’s invention, in which the mystery of improving 
the bloom of fruits is performed. 

Among florists and growers of prize fruits, manual decor- 
ation is in many cases of equal importance with successful 
growth; the petals of the carnation require to be dressed on 
a card; the cucumber to be straightened, and the plum pow- 
dered with artificial bloom. Ten years’ experience, and the 
award of nearly 100/. in prizes for show fruits, enable Mr. 
Gauen to speak on this subject with a degree of confidence 
which can belong to but few individuals. ; 

To secure a delicate bloom to the cucumber, it must be 
protected, from the period of its blossoming, from the drip of. 
the lights, and from the damp of the soil, by two pieces of - 
glass about four inches wide, and from eight to twelve inches 
long; the one placed under the fruit, and the other supported 
on pegs over it; both having a fall of half an inch to one end, 
to carry off any drip or condensed dew. 

To procure great length, small girth, and “ the straightness 
of a gun barrel” to the cucumber, instead of supporting the 
upper piece of glass on pegs, lay on the under piece of glass 


preserving, and packing Fruits. 35 


along side the incipient cucumber, two pieces of wood about 
the length you suppose the fruit may grow to, about two 
inches square, and with the upper inner angle of each piece 
bevelled off. The use of these pieces of wood is, to increase 
the solar heat by reflection in the daytime, and, by close con- 
finement during the night, to draw out the fruit considerably 
beyond its natural length. A fruit which in ordinary cases 
would run but eight or ten inches in length, may, by this pro- 
cess, be extended to ten or twelve inches. ‘This species of 
elongation, however, is attéMded with small prickles, placed 
at greater distances than is desirable in a handsome fruit. 
Abundance of heat and air will lessen this evil; and it may be 
cured artificially, by inserting prickles in the manner to be 
afterwards described. 

To ensure shape, size, prickles, and bloom, the foliage of 
the plant must be kept moderately thin. ‘The same sort of 
cucumber grown under a crowd of leaves, and grown in a free 
circulation of air exposed to sunshine, will be as different in 
appearance as the fruits of two distinct varieties. In watering 
the plants, never wet the fruit. Before cutting the fruit, see 
that they are perfectly straight, at least a day previously ; for, 
though warped fruit may be straightened after they are cut, 
this operation is much better performed when they are on the 
plant. 

In straightening warped fruit after they are cut, it is neces- 
sary to keep them in a cool dry place, and totally excluded from 
change of air. Among the different means recommended for 
straightening, some bury them in a case in earth, others keep 
them in a damp cellar, and some few immerse them in dry 
sand. Mr. Gauen never found any other care necessary, than 
to keep them in their show-box, in a cool dry room. 

Mr.Gauen’s mode of straightening cucumbersis as follows :— 
“¢ Take a flat board, half an inch thick, four inches broad, and’ 
the length of your fruit; bore holes, at intervals of half an’ 
inch, across the board, and within one inch of each end. Pro- 
vide two strips, the length of the board, one half inch wide, 
and one fourth inch thick; place one strip on edge, supported. 
by a peg placed in one of the holes outside the strip that is on 
edge, and put the board under the growing fruit, with the two 
ends of the arc formed by the crooked fruit against the upright 
strip; place a bit of cotton wool or moss between each end ot 
the fruit and the upright strip, to prevent bruising. ‘Then 
take the other strip, and bring it within a peg placed at one 
end, with a bit of wool or moss placed against the outer are of 
the crooked fruit as before. Proceed to straighten the fruit, 

D2 


36 The Art of ornamenting, blooming, 


with one hand straining it by the strip (keeping the whole steady 
with the other) towards the fixed upright strip, so as to bring 
it in a straight direction, and fix another peg. In ordinary cases, 
you may make them perfectly straight at the first operation, 
but in some of the most difficult it requires two or three. A 
fruit.may be straightened at any period of its growth, but it 
requires to be left one night after the operation, to prevent 
its return to crookedness.” 

In the performance of this operation, the bloom will have 
been injured, but this may be restored by the blooming 
process. 

In order to restore the bloom to fruit, the following articles 
are necessary : —A box with slides (fg. 18. a), acommon pow- 
der-puff (4), and a few ounces of finely calcined and perfectly 


ga 


UN Ses 
MTT es 
——SSSSSSSSSSwy-= 


ay 


dry magnesia. ‘The box may be of any size, according to the 
quantity of fruit which it is proposed to subject to the blooming 
process at one time. That sold by Mr. Eddy is about 20 
inches long, 18 inches deep, and 13 inches wide. ‘The sides 
and bottom are fixed, but the top, which fits on tightly by 
means of a surrounding moulding, lifts off. Supposing the 
top and one of the sides removed (fig. 18.), on the bottom, at 
one end, will be seen a brush-cylinder of three inches’ diameter, 
and the width of the box (c), which works out into a breast or 
segment of a brush-cylinder (d), in the same way as the drum 
of a threshing-machine works against its cover. These two 
brushes, working against each other, are for the purpose of 
raising the powdered magnesia into a cloud of dust in the box. 

In the end of the box will be seen a hole (e), to which 
there is a stopper (/ ), and this hole is made exactly the size of 


preserving, and packing Fruits. Si 


the small end of the powder-puff (4). The slides of this box 
are about six inches apart, and are put in and drawn out 
through the end of the box (gg); these slides are four in 
number, two of fine wire in a sieanlen frame, and two of plain 
deal boards. Both the wire slides are used together when the 
greatest number of fruit is to be bloomed at one time, and in 
the ordinary way ; but when fruit is to be bloomed in the most 
delicate manner, the plain board is used for the lower slide, 
but so far drawn out as to leave an opening at the farther end 
(4); by which means only the very finest ae the powder can 
rise in the air, so as to surround and be deposited on the fruit 
placed on the upper wire slide (2). 

Whenever a leash of cucumbers are to have their bloom 
repaired, all that is necessary is to place them on the wire 
slide; and, having charged the puff with powdered magnesia, 
rendered as fine as possible by passing it through gauze, to 
apply it to the hole, and, while working it with one “hand, to 
turn round the brush-cylinder with the other. 

After a few strokes, the box will be filled with a fine cloud 
of powder, the grosser particles of which will fall to the bot- 
tom, while the “finer will be deposited on every part of the 
fruit. Two or three applications of the puff, at intervals of an 
hour, will in general be sufficient; but to have the bloom in 
the highest degree of delicacy, the fruit should remain all 
night in the box. In the intervals of working the puff, the 
plug is inserted in the puff-hole. 

Cucumbers so bloomed may be packed and sent to any 
distance, without the slightest injury, by the following pro- 
cess : — Procure a box one inch longer than the fruit to be 
packed, two and a half inches deep, and six inches in width. 
Provide a few strips similar to those used in the operation of 
straightening, and pack the cucumbers with them upon a false 
bottom, prepared with holes at each end for the pegs. Any 
quantity of fruit may be safely sent in one box, by extending 
its size, packing the fruit, tier upon tier, on false bottoms, and 
keeping each fruit apart by strips and pegs. 

Where prickles are to be added to cucumbers, it ought to 
be done before the bloom is given; different sorts of Brenaber Sy 
and the same sorts in diver: seasons, differ so much in 
regard to prickles, that recourse is often obliged to be had to 
art, in order to procure for showa leash beautifully and regularly 
furnished with this characteristic appendage. Even when a 
gardener can select his fruit from fifteen or twenty lights, it is 
often difficult to procure a leash that will match in the size 
and arrangement of their prickles. 

D 3 


38 The Art of ornamenting, blooming, 


Mr. Gauen’s mode of supplying prickles is as follows: —Pro- 
cure a few camel-hair pencils, a little gum-arabic, some Indian 
ink, a little finely powdered starch, a sharp penknife, a few 
small needles, and one or two large needles. Select the 
prickles from fruits that have been gathered a day or two; 
from five to fifteen may be wanted for a fruit. In distributing 
them over the fruit, imitate nature. In preparing the prickles, 
remove them without taking any of the flesh of the fruit; cut 
them off, and let them drop on a sheet of letter paper, from 
which you may take them up as wanted, by turning them up 
on their base, and then thrusting a small needle into their side. 
Pincers must not be used, as they bruise the prickle. Dissolve the 
gum in a tea-cup, with boiling water; and, when it has become 
a strong size, stir in a tea-spoonful of finely powdered starch. 

To put on the prickles, take a large clean camel-hair pen- 
cil, dip it into the gum, and present the base of the prickle to 
the surface of the gum, suffering it barely to touch; then dis- 
place the bloom from that point on the cucumber where you 
are going to place the prickle with a dry camel-hair pencil: 
having applied the prickle, keep it in its place with the eye of 
a large needle, while you withdraw the small needle from its 
side. To colour these prickles, mix up some gum water and 
Indian ink to such a consistency that you find you can take a 
globule upon the point of a large needle without dropping ; 
then take some of the mixture on the point of a fine camel- 
hair pencil, and apply it to the point of a prickle; if it is of 
the proper consistency, it will, by its own gravity and the 
attraction of cohesion, surround the prickle, and adhere to it 
without running upon the fruit. “ If you wish to increase the 
size of the prickles, repeat the application.” 

For show cucumbers, it is deemed necessary to have a de- 
cayed blossom adhering to the end of the fruit: this is easily . 
supplied from other fruits, and made to adhere with a little 
gum water and starch. 

“To dish up a leash (three, as in greyhounds) of cucum- 
bers for show,” moss or cotton wool is generally laid in the 
bottom of the dish, and over that a cucumber leaf, and the 
fruit. ‘The latter must show “as perfect a match as possible, 
in the three fruit, in length, size, arrangement of prickle, and 
bloom.” 

For the carriage of cucumbers to the show, most gardeners 
use a box consisting of two tiers, with three cells in each, the 
cells lined with green baize, and capable of being contracted 
or distended at pleasure, by means of string fastenings; but 
Mr. Gauen prefers the mode of packing already described, 


preserving, and packing Frutts. 39 


by which fruit of the most delicate bloom may be carried 
with perfect safety in any conveyance, on springs, for hundreds 
of miles. 

To preserve the bloom on the grape, complete the thinning 
of the berries when they have swelled to half their size, and 
be careful not to dash water violently against them, or subject 
them to a current of steam. Abundance of light and air are 
favourable for the production of bloom; the most powerful 
sun will not injure it, nor a moderate degree of shade. When 
grapes with delicate bloom are gathered, they should be placed 
in a basket of well threshed moss, taking care not to bruise 
any of the berries, because their juice not only deprives other 
berries of their bloom, but renders it extremely difficult to 
restore that bloom by artificial means. 

To restore the bloom to grapes, suspend them in the sort 
of box already described, and work the puff at intervals of an 
hour or two. When not wanted for immediate use, they 
should be suffered to remain all night in the box; but, when a 
very delicate bloom is wanted, they should remain a few days. 
In no situation will they keep so well, and for so long a time, 
as in the blooming-box. 

Grapes require more care in packing than any other fruit. 
Mr. Gauen recommends moss and cotton wool, the former 
well threshed and carefully picked over. Place a layer of moss 
at the bottom of the box; on this a layer of cotton wool; and, 
next, the bunches, side by side, within half an inch of each 
other ; fill the interstices with cotton wool, place a layer of 
the same material over the fruit, and finish with a layer of 
moss. A false bottom, supported by the sides, may next be 
introduced, and the layers repeated according to the size of 
the box. Where the bunches are very large, it is necessary 
to introduce splints or slips of whalebone through the heavier 
parts of the bunches, and support them on the sides of the 
box, or on the interstices of cotton wool. 

Grapes are shown for prizes on two distinct grounds; the 
one for size and delicate bloom, the other for flavour. In 
either case, when the bloom of any part of the bunch has 
been injured by handling, the puff may be directed against 
the part injured. Before fixing upon a bunch to show for 
flavour, it is necessary to taste the bunches in different parts 
of the house, or of different parts of the same vine. In general, 
the berries of the best flavour and colour are those of the first 
ripened bunches (of the bunches at the root end of the 
vine), and of the lower extremity of the bunch. Grapes, 
unlike other fruits, do not improve in flavour after gathering ; 

D 4 


4.0 The Art of ornamenting, blooming, 


unripe bunches never get any riper after they are gathered. 
In selecting bunches, avoid those where any, or even one, of 
the leaves have been removed from the vine near the bunch, 
because the berries of bunches so circumstanced will certainly 
be of inferior flavour. Every one must have observed this in 
the case of gooseberries and currants. 

In dishing up grapes, the taste of the operator must be dis- 
played according to the kinds and the size of the bunches; 
placing the lar west in the centre, and the others round it, so 
as to form a ‘handsome figure. Between dishing up ad 
showing, keep them in a cool place. 

Plums are to be treated on the same general principles as 
grapes, only instead of being suspended in the blooming-box, 
they may be laid upon the wire bottom. No fruit requires so 
much care in handling as the plum, but in none is the bloom 
more easily restored. 

Peaches, nectarines, apricots, figs, and, in general, every 
fruit having a bloom, may be treated as directed for the fore- 
going: the box, the puff; and the calcined magnesia are all 
the ingredients necessary. 

At first sight it may appear surprising that a white pow- 
der should give the bloom to fruits of different colours; but 
the colour resides in the skin, and the bloom is merely a semi- 
transparent colourless powder. A variety of artificial powders 
have been used to imitate the natural powder, the chemical 
properties of which seem not yet to have been ascertained. Mr. 
Gauen thinks it probable that this powder is of an antiseptic 
quality, and intended to defend the finer pores of the skin from 
the causticity of the air. He “ tried a vast number of expe- 
riments with various articles, previous to the choice of magne- 
sia; but, as numbers of articles that would have answered as 
well as magnesia are deleterious, or offensive to the taste,” 
he considers magnesia, which when kept thoroughly dry is a 
powerful antiseptic, as decidedly the best. 

Millbrook, near Southampton, July, 1827. 


We are glad of the above communication, because it supplies 
what we have long been desirous of laying before our readers. 
All the information that we were able to gain among the Lon- 
don fruit-shops was, that yellow grapes sometimes had their 
bloom restored by being fumigated with sulphur ; and that some 
fruiterers of little repute were in the habit of supplying a bloom 
to plums, by dusting them with the powder of the common blue 
used by laundresses. ‘The last operation is, in general, so 
clumsily performed, that it may be readily detected; the bloom 


preserving, and packing Fruits. 41 


communicated to grapes by the fumigation of sulphur is much 
more delicate, and is no doubt produced on the same principle 
asin Mr. Gauen’s application of magnesia, viz. by the deposition 
of the fine particles of the sulphur on the surface of the fruit. It 
is generally known that filberts, and sometimes almonds, wal- 
nuts, and other nuts are fumigated with sulphur, by which their 
uniformity of colour and glossiness is much improved. In the 
performance of these operations, the same mode is followed as in 
bleaching peeled willows, straw plait, bristles, &c.: viz. paper 
or rags are dipped in melted brimstone (it melts at 220°); these 
rags or papers are then burned in an oven or close vessel till it is 
filled with smoke; the burning materials are then withdrawn, 
and the articles to be bleached introduced, the vessel or oven 
closed on them, and left till the smoke is condensed; or, in 
other words, till all the particles of sulphur floating in it are 
deposited on whatever comes in theirway. If one operation have 
not the desired effect, the process is repeated at short intervals. 
In gardening, the smoke might be generated and introduced 
into any close vessel, by the common fumigating bellows, Read’s 
syringe, or the bellows described by our correspondent C. P. 
(p. 30.), sulphur paper being introduced in the place of to- 
bacco leaves. The whitening effect of the sulphureous vapour 
is a mere mechanical result, and not a chemical combination, 
as in the case of bleaching with muriatic acid or alkali. In 
the latter case the colouring matter is neutralised, and after- 
wards washed out; in the former it is merely covered with a 
layer of very fine yellowish white particles, which, being inso- 
luble in water, are not easily removed or altered by atmo- 
spherical changes. 

It is very likely that there are still a number of mysteries in 
the management of fruits for commercial or competitory dis- 
play with which we are unacquainted : whoever can supply us 
with any information on this subject is earnestly requested to 
do so; because, according to the theory which we entertain of 
knowledge, the gardening world ought to know every thing 
that is done, or can be done, with gardening productions. 
Storch, in his Description of St. Petersburgh (Lond. 8vo.), men- 
tions some of the tricks that are performed on culinary vege- 
tables and fruits im that city, but they are in general too gross, 
and involve too much manipulation, for being practised in 
Britain. For example, after asparagus has been used at the 
tables of the great, the returned ends of the shoots are sold by 
the cook to itinerating green-grocers, who carve a new ter- 
minating bud, colour it, and add a bloom, in imitation of na- 
ture, make up the ends so prepared in bundles, with a few 
fresh stalks outside, and sell the whole as genuine asparagus. 


42 Art of blooming Fruits. 


Perhaps we shall be blamed for making known the mode 
of effecting those deceptions, as we have been for printing that 
part of “ Agronome’s” letter (Vol. II. p.165.), in which he 
states that a market-gardener killed certain ash trees, by 
laying a quantity of salt at their roots. But this, though 
unquestionably a well meant, is yet, as we conceive, a very mis- 
taken view of the duties of the editor of a work which has for 
its object the progress of science and of mind. Nothing worth 
trying for will ultimately be gained by concealing the truth. 
If a matter of fact is to be kept back, because by an evil dis- 
posed persen it may be applied to bad purposes, to what will 
such a doctrine lead? At what point must an editor cease to 
be honest? Is it not by bringing together all the facts be- 
longing to any subject, that the mind is enabled to compare 
and judge of the nature of that subject? But it will be said, 
apply this doctrine to a particular case, and suppose a gar- 
dener who wished secretly to destroy his neighbour’s trees, 
but did not know till after he had read “ Agronome’s” letter 
that he might do so by salt, does so; would it not have been 
better that he had remained ignorant? To which we answer, 
better for him and better for the proprietor of the killed trees, 
but not better for the public: for the cause of the death of 
other trees, by salt in the hands of a malicious person, may 
be detected ; others may be taught to avoid laying salt near the 
roots of plants, for instance, near box, in salting gravel walks 
to destroy moss and weeds; and, when the destruction of trees 
or other plants is a legitimate object, salt may in some cases 
be used for that purpose more conveniently than any thing 
else. The accidental evils that may result from the diffusion 
of knowledge, are not to be counteracted by stopping short of 
the whole truth, but by counter-truths; by calling in other 
kinds of knowledge ; by opening more clearly to view the va- 
rious and certain consequences which result from all actions, 
according to their natures. If a man is in such a state of 
knowledge and freedom of action as to be able to commit the 
greatest crimes with seeming impunity, the same state of know- 
ledge will remind him that there is such a thing as reputation, 
-and that the laws of society are regular and certain in their 
course. The more a man’s knowledge is increased, the greater 
will be his sympathies and enjoyments with every thing around 
him, and the greater his reluctance to disturb the system of 
harmony in which he feels himself placed. 

But, to return to the subject of decorating fruits, we shall be 
happy to hear all that has been done, or can be said on the 
subject. — Cond. — 


43 


lewavlawd De n)G 


REVIEWS. 


Art.I. Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London. 
Vol. VII. Part I. 


Tue present Part of these Transactzons contains twenty- 
three papers, fourteen of which are by officers or servants of 
the Society, and the remaining nine by practical British 
gardeners. ‘The plates are Hoya Pottsz2, a plant very much 
resembling the common Héya carnosa; a Meteorological 
Diagram, mee Pears, and the Plan of a Vinery. T he are 
ec les several wood-cuts, which we consider to be an im- 
provement in the getting up of the work, convinced as we are 
that science would gain by the substitution of local cuts for 
isolated engravings on copper, in every case in which orna- 
ment, or aerial perspective, is not the chief object. 


1. Observations on the Growth of early and late Grapes under Glass. 
In a Letter to the Secretary. By Mr. James Acon, C.M.H.S. 
Gardener to the Earl of Surrey, F.H.S. at Worksop Manor. 


Mr. Acon provides a regular supply of grapes in a perfect 
state for the table, throughout the year, in the following man- 
ner: —“ The late house crop lasts from the middle of 
January to the end of March; this is succeeded by the first 
crop in the early house, which carries on the supply into 
May, and it is continued by the grapes on the rafters in the 
same house, until the pine-stoves, which are forced early in 
January and February, produce their crops. These keep in 
bearing through the summer, when a vinery, which I begin to 
force about the end of March, furnishes the supply till the 
late house fruit is ready in January. This completes the 
succession.” vik 

Early crops of grapes are generally grown under the roof 
near the glass, as in the houses of Shepherd, Andrews, and 
the forcing-gardens of the king, about London; or against 
the back wall of small houses with front glass nearly perpen- 
dicular, as in the forcing-houses of the Dutch. Both these 


44. Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


methods Mr. Acon considers objectionable : the first, because 
the house is rendered too dark, and the fruit liable to be in- 
jured by cold air blowing through the interstices of the glass 
in stormy weather; and the second, because the plants are 
frequently scorched by the heat of the flues. Mr. Acon adopts 
a wide flat-roofed house (jig. 19.), plants the vines within the 


19 Y 


SS... 


\ 


CRRRREECQW 


Bh TT) Yj Y pyyoy yyy yy Yj 
WY LULU lle “LJ 
Fae | ; 


WIUU) H/ 


Uf =e 


0 5 fe i Ie 


house at the back and front (a d), trains them on an arched 
trellis, with horizontal wires one foot apart (6), and on the 
back wall (c). He commences forcing on the Ist of Sep- 
tember, and the fruit begins to be ripened about the first 
week in March, and continues to be gathered till the middle 
of May. About six weeks after the forcing has commenced, 
vines are introduced from the front, and trained under the 
rafters, which yield a succession crop, from the early part of ~ 
May till late in June, when the vines in the pine-stoves pro- 
duce their crops. By the form of the trellis, which admits of 
the use of the whole of the back wall, and of at least one shoot 
on each rafter, this house presents the greatest possible surface 
for the growth of the vines, consistent with sufficient light. 
Mr. Acon has proved by experiment that vines will ripen their 
fruit a fortnight sooner on the trellis, than on the rafters. 
Though of the utmost importance to have the roots of the 
vines planted within the house, and secure from external ex- 
posure, Mr. Acon does not by any means desire to have the 
mould in which they grow heated by the fire. “ Few plants,” 
he states, ‘* will thrive well, if the earth in which their roots 
are placed is warmed by any other means than that of the 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 45 


atmosphere.” In pruning, as little wood is left to be employed 
as possible; no joint is without a bunch, and, at the joint 
above the bunch, the shoot is stopped. ‘“* When the crop is 
over, and the wood perfectly ripe, the branches should be 
laid near the ground, and shaded till the reeommencement of 
the forcing. By this practice, they will be found to have 
accumulated excitability. The shade will have some affinity 
to the gloom of winter, which never fails to give vegetation 
increased energy. I remember once to have placed some 
vines in pots in the lobby of an ice-house; these being re- 
placed in the stove broke their eyes in September, and had 
ripe fruit very early in the spring following, though they were 
but slowly forced.... Plants that have been forced early will 
always have an inclination to bud at the accustomed time, 
whilst it is difficult to move those which have never been 
habituated to forward excitement; but the habit once induced 
will continue, and will enable the cultivator to procure fruit at 
any time.” 

The late vinery at Worksop Manor is narrower, and has 
a steener roof than the other. (jig. 20.) Its flues are on arches, 


20 


GCG. Gg QQ ys 


.7A y 


DRM 
mmm Ul 


o oT oe D 15f¢ 


as in the early vinery, and the vines are planted within the 
house (a), and trained on a trellis near the glass. ‘The house 
is shut up about the middle or end of May, as soon as the 
bunches make their appearance, and till they are out of blos- 
som the air is kept very warm. “ This is of more importance 


46 Transactions of the Horticultural Soczety. 


than is generally imagined ; the wood which: has to bring the. 
future crop will be all made during this period. Ina good heat 
it will be found to grow more compact, and to receive a form 
better calculated to produce and ripen fruit under the cold 
atmosphere to which it is afterwards exposed. If the house be 
kept too cool at the beginning, the wood will be soft and long 
jointed, and therefore subsequently barren. ‘Those whio at- 
tempt to grow late grapes must pay serious attention to this 
circumstance, the failures of many may be attributed to the 
neglect of it.” 

The fruit should be perfectly coloured at the approach of 
the dark season, after which, a more passive vegetation is 
maintained, during which the bunches will remain for months 
without any apparent alteration. ‘The Muscat of Alexandria, 
St. Peter’s, and Black Damascus are the sorts best adapted 
for late crops; “all the other kinds wither prematurely.” 
The gathering of this crop generally commences in the middle 
of January, and continues till the early house comes into bear- 
ing in March. 

In pruning here, as in the early house, no wood is suffered 
to remain without fruit. If the plants bleed at the spring 
dressing, keeping the house warmer, for a week, will compress 
the wood as effectually as a long winter. When the fruit is 
gathered, the house is unroofed, to restore the elastic power 
of the wood, which never fails to be lost where vines have 
been exposed for a considerable time to a dry atmosphere. In 
general, exposure of vines for a few weeks to frost promotes 
their breaking vigorously and uniformly; when the frost has 
been so severe as to condense the sap, and compress the wood 
to a great degree, its elasticity may be restored by washing the 
branches frequently in cold water in a lowtemperature. Mr. 
Acon thanks Mr. Sabine for the encomiums passed on the 
garden under his care, when visited by Mr. Sabine in October, 
1826 ; we visited the same garden about the same time, and 
bear testimony to the order in which it was kept, and the excel- 
lent state of the crops. A pressure of other matter has hitherto 
prevented us from printing the notes which we made on that 
journey, already alluded to. (Gard. Mag. vol. ii. p. 6.) 


2, On the Varieties of Cardoon, and the Methods of cultivating them. 
By Mr. Andrew Mathews, A.L.S. 


The cardoon is not very generally cultivated in English 
gardens, probably, as Mr. Mathews conjectures, because “ it 
requires more skill in the cooking than is commonly applied 
to it.” It is a good deal in use in the South of France, as 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 47 


about Tours, where it is used in soups and stews, and some- 
times in salads. The sorts described are the common, Spanish, 
Cardoon of Tours, and Red Cardoon. The Spanish Mr. Ma- 
thews considers the best, and the culture of any of the sorts 
he states to be particularly easy. Sow about the middle of 
April, in deep, light, not over rich soil, in trenches about six 
inches deep by twelve inches wide, and four feet distant 
centre from centre. Drop three orfour seeds together at inter- 
vals of eighteen inches, and, when they come up, thin them out 
to single plants. Water frequently during summer; and, in a 
dry day about the end of October, commence the operation of 
blanching, by tying up the leaves with twisted hay bands, after 
which earth may or may not be heaped round them in the 
manner of landing celery, according as they are to be used 
early or during winter. ‘The common practice is to tie 
slightly with matting in the beginning of October, and earth 
up once a fortnight, till the plants are sufficiently covered, in 
the manner of celery. The French mould up the bottom of 
the plant a little, then tie up the leaves with packthread, and 
thatch them with long clean straw, made fast with strong mat- 
ting, or small ropes. ‘The hay band method is the best. 

Cardoons may be transplanted in the manner of celery, but 
they are found to do much better when sown where they are 
to remain. In France the flowers are gathered and dried in 
the shade, and used instead of rennet to coagulate milk. 


3. Account and Description of the several Plants belonging to the 
Genus Hoya, which are cultivated in the Garden of the Horticul- 
tural Society at Chiswick. By Mr. James Traill, Under-Gar- 
dener in the Ornamental Experimental Department. 


Hoya carnosa, crassifolia, pallida, Péttsz?, and trinérvis 
are described ; and the fact noticed that the flowers of the first 
species form no particular attraction for wasps, or any other 
insects which find their way into hot-houses, as Mr. Maher 
(Hort. Trans. vol.i.) thought he had observed in 1815. 
Mr. Knight, the president, has, we believe, made a similar 
mistake as to the berries of the yew tree attracting wasps. 
Nothing can be easier than the culture of Hoyas in vegetable 
mould and lime rubbish, with little water, and the heat of a 
stove. As they make few roots, they seldom require shifting. 
They may be propagated by cuttings, or the leaves immersed 
in silver sand nearly half their length will produce roots from 
the base of the foot-stalk, and after some time a shoot from the 
same point. 


48 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


4. On acclimatising Plants at Biel, in East Lothian. By Mr. 
John Street, Gardener to the Honourable Mrs. Hamilton 
Nesbitt. 

During the ten years which Mr. Street has been flower- 
gardener at Biel, he has planted out a great many green- 
house plants, and found numbers of them stand the winter 
much better than might be expected. After a careful perusal 
of what he has given as his experience, in this paper and in 
another in the Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural 
Society, the general conclusions which we draw, are, — Ist, 
That a poor soil kept dry, and a situation exposed on all sides 
in summer, but sheltered on the north and east in winter, are 
the most favourable for what is called acclimatising plants: 
2d, That plants firmly rooted in the free soil are much less 
liable to injury from frost than plants recently planted out, 
or with their roots confined to pots: 3d, That what is 
called acclimatising appears to be nothing more than increas- 
ing the hardiness of the individual, not altering the nature of 
the species: 4th, That it is not clear that any thing has been 
actually gained in the way of acclimatising, by raising succes- 
sive generations of plants from seeds. 

The following list includes the greater number of plants 
tried by Mr. Street :— 

Ononis Natrix, Hypéricum baleéricum, Teucrium fruti- 
cosum, Convolvulus Cneorum, Mesembryanthemum unci- 
natum, sunk in the open border in pots, their roots through 
the bottom of the pots into the free soil, and their surface 
covered with a little sandy gravel, stood the winter of 1825. 

Lycium afrum, on a south wall covered with two mats 
thick in winter, flowers freely, and produces seeds, 

Lavatéra triloba, planted over a drain against a south wall, 
flowers freely and produces abundance of seeds. 

Camphorésma monspeliaca thrives well and flowers freely 
without protection. Lychnis coronata and Gnaphalium 
Stoe’chas thrive remarkably well and flower freely. Stachys 
coccinea and Jeucrium Marum, in a place with a dry bottom, 
endure the winter without protection and flower freely. 
Calla zethidpica, in the open border, has produced two ounces 
of ripe seeds; and a seedling from one of these seeds has en- 
dured three winters, with only some decayed tanner’s bark 
put over its roots. [The same plant has stood several winters, 
in a pond in the Princess Augusta’s garden at Frogmore. 
When we saw it on the 29th of July last, it was in great 
vigour, and showing several’ blossoms; and Mr. Ingram 
(p. 13.) informed us that it flowers in that situation during 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 49 


three or four months of every summer.] Hypéricum zgyptia- 
cum, in the open border in its pot, with the roots through, 
endures the winter, and flowers a long time. Commelina 
tuberdsa, from Mexico, stood two winters in the open border, 
is very strong, and flowers freely. Mimulus glutindsus, in its 
pot, under a south wall in a poor dry place, endured four winters 
without covering, is six feet high, flowered freely, and ripened 
seeds. Marrabium eide- decane) under a low south 
wall, in its pot, in poor dry earth, endures the winter, and 
flowers freely. Disandra prostrata has endured three win- 
ters, and produced seeds. A single Oleander, under a south 
wall, has endured one winter without protection. Pittosporam 
Tobira has lived several winters in an open border, at about 
eight or nine feet distant from a high wall with a west 
aspect. Broad-leaved myrtles cover a terrace wall thirty-six 
feet long, along with some Lycium afrum; the soil a fine 
sandy loam of ten or twelve inches on a clayey bottom. In 
winter the roots are covered with moss, and the stems and 
branches against the wall with two good mats thick. ‘These 
myrtles flower every year, and in dry summers as plentifully 
as hawthorns, and yield ripe seeds. [If some of these were 
carried away by the birds and dropped in a warm coppice, 
they might spring up and live under the protection of whins, 
hollies, or hazels, for many years 5 and some stranger herbalist, 
bent on discovering something, might record the myrtle as 
a native of Scotland.] Several plants of Canna indica have 
been planted in the open borders every year; they rise near 
five feet high, blossom freely, and ripen seeds. Jasminum 
revolutum, ineveninn flavum, Coronilla valentina and glatca, 
are quite hardy, as are Senécio lanceus, and Medicago arborea. 

In Mr. Street’s paper in the Caledonian Horticultural So- 
ciety’s Memoirs, he states that the following species stood 
the winter at Biel, in borders or against walls:— Aloysza 
citriodora (formerly Verbena triphylla), killed annually to 
the ground, but shoots up again. Cnedrum tricédccum, in a 
warm border. J ris chinénsis, with the protection of a hand- 
glass. Buddleja globosa, under an east wall. Heliotropium 
peruvianum, indies a south wall; and Anchusa italica, in the 
open border. Convélvulus althzeoides and Cneorum, under 
a south wal]. Lonicéra impléxa and flava, Linum tatiricum, and 
Agapanthus umbellatus stood without covering. ‘Sansevicra 
car nea, from China, survived the severest vinters: and flowered 
freely in the summer. Phérmium ténax, from New Zealand, 
bore the winter, but did not produce flowers. Velbon 
media, from the Cape of Good Hope, stood in the open 

Vor. II. — No. 9. E 


50 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


ground, at a distance from the wall. Alstrcemeérza pelegrina, 
native of Peru, in an open border, in a deep rich soil, was 
much more luxuriant than when grown in pots. Erica me- 
diterranea survived many winters without. covering, in a 
border in front of a south wall. Edwardsza microphylla, a 
plant of New Zealand, lived in a similar situation, but without 
flowering. Melia Azeddrach, from the Levant, lived through 
the winter. Calycd4nthus pree‘cox (now Chimonanthus fra- 
gvans), from Japan, stood against a south wall, without any 
covering. Rubus roszefolius, from the Mauritius, planted on 
the open border, under a south wall, flourished. Cistus al- 
garvénsis, C. villosus, C. mutabilis, C. Zédon, and C. ladani- 
ferus, all natives of the south of Europe, were induced to 
stand through the winters, in dry sheltered spots. Zeucrium 
fruticans, from the south of Europe, lived in front of a south 
wall. Zbéris semperflorens, from Sicily, lived in a warm 
south border, without covering. Hibiscus syriacus stood the 
winters tolerably. Hypéricum monogynum, from China, and 
Coris, from the south of Europe, lived, the first in an ex- 
posed, the latter in a sheltered situation. Passiflora czerulea 
grew against a south wall, without covering, and flowered in 
the summer. Cupréssus lusitanica lived and produced seeds 
against a south wall. Smilax aspera, of the south of Europe, 
grew under a south wall several years. Acacia armata, native 
of New Holland, lived over the winter, near a south wall, and 
produced ripe seeds. 

“ The following plants have ripened seeds in the open air ; 
the produce of those seeds, some through successive genera- 
tions, grew all in the open border, several of them being self- 
sown:—Lopézia racemosa, from Mexico. Verdnica decussata, 
a shrub from the Falkland. Islands. Calceolaria pinnata, 
native of Peru. Pardanthus chinénsis, a bulbous plant. 
Marica californica. Persicaria orientalis. Podalyria virgi- 
nica. Mesembryanthemum glabrum and pinnatifidum, both 
from the Cape of Good Hope. Lavandula dentata, a shrub 
from the South of Europe. Stachys coccinea, from Chile. 
Dracocéphalum canariénse (Balm of Gilead), Célsza creética. 
Alonsoa urticifolia, native of Peru. Erodium hymenodes, 
native of Barbary. Geranium anemonefolium, from Ma- 
deira. Medicago arborea, a shrub from Italy. Cineraria 
cruénta, C.populifolia, and C. lanata, all from the Canary 
Islands. Tagétes licida, native of Mexico. | Momordica 
Elatérium, from the south of Europe.” 

Several annuals, usually raised on hot-beds, have naturalised 
themselves by shedding their seeds in the open air in warm situ- 
ations. 


Transactions of the Hoxticultural Society. 51 


5. Upon the Culture of Rone By T. A. Knight, Esq. F.R.S. &c. 
Tes. 

What the Council could discover in this paper to render it 
worthy of publication, we are utterly at a loss to know. Per- 
haps it was quite enough for them that it was written by the 
President. All that we can gather from it is that Mr. Knight 
‘thas, during several seasons, supplied” his “celery plants much 
more copiously with water than is usually done, and always 
with the best effects.” There is, indeed, as usual, a few words 
liable to be construed into a reflection on the skill and conduct 
of gardeners, which, we must take the liberty of stating, come 
with a particularly bad grace from Mr. Knight, after his 
sional failure in attempting to surpass British gardeners in 
the culture of the pme-apple. With the highest respect for 
Mr. Knight, justice to the practical gardener will not permit 
us to forget his premature vaunting on the subject mentioned, 
his indirect recommendation of illiterate gardeners, and the 
injury which his papers on the pine-apple might have done 
to the practical man. We would wish the Council of the 
Horticultural Society to recollect these things also, and to be 
more careful in future as to what they publish. 

The services which Mr. Knight is calculated to render hor- 
ticulture, are not of that kind which ought to lead him into 
rivalship with the practical gardener. It is not necessary that 
a curious and philosophic experimenter should be able to suc- 
ceed in every thing which he attempts. Mr. Knight may lead 
others to grow good crops, without being able to grow any 
one good crop himself. He has already rendered the greatest 
services to vegetable culture, by his physiological discoveries, 
and we only regret that he should seem to wish to add to his 
own merits, by detracting from those of his more humble 
brethren, who are very willing to benefit by his writings, but 


who, we fear, are not very likely ever to gain any thing by his 
example. 


6., Report upon the new or rare Plants which flowered in the Gar- 
den of the Horticultural Society at Chiswick, between March, 
1825, and March, 1826. Part I. Tender Plants. By Mr. John 
Lindley, F.L.S. Garden Assistant Secretary. 


Trees or Shrubs. —Mimésa latispindsa. An elegant bush fom 
three to four feet high, the stem and petioles clothed with white 
aculei. From the fale of France in 1822. Stove; cuttings or 
seeds; loam, peat, and sand. — Passiflora slasanien A small 
inconspicuous species, from seeds from the N.E. coast of South 
Neen: by Mr. George Don, in 1823. —taxora rosea. By far 

E 2 ; 


52 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


the most beautiful of all the Ixoras in our gardens. Grows 
freely, with perfectly good foliage, and abundance of fine 
clusters of pink flowers. From hilly tracts on the borders of 
Bengal, in 1824, by the East India Company. Cuttings under 
a glass in a warm frame ; soil for the plants, light sandy loam 
and peat.—ZIzora undulata. A branched shrub about four feet 
high, with thin, wavy, smooth, ovate leaves, and white flowers. 
Culture as in last species. Dioméedea argéntea. Half shrubby, 
from. two to three feet high, neat, aromatic when rubbed. 
Light sandy loam, and cuttings.—Caméllza euryoides. “ The 
grated part of a camellia, brought from China in 1822 by 
Mr. John Potts, having perished, the stock sprang up, and 
proved to be this species, which had been before unknown to 
botanists. It forms a diffuse bushy plant, with hairy branches, 
obovate, acuminate, serrated leaves, and small, neat, white 
flowers, never expanding fully, but in size resembling those 
of a Thea. It is inferior in beauty to any of the previously 
known camellias, but must be considered a subject of much 
interest to the cultivator, from its being one of the means em- 
ployed by the Chinese for propagating the ornamental species 
of the genus.” 

Solanum dealbatum, Lind. saponaceum, Hook. A neat 
downy under-shrub, from the Cordilleras, of the easiest culture. 
—Alstdnzavenenata. Asmoothshrub, with whorled leaves, and 
terminal spikes of white flowers, thriving in the stove in sandy 
peat and loam, and readily propagated by cuttings.— Wrightza 
tinctoria. A bushy stove plant, occasionally throwing up vigo- 
rous shoots, which twine round any thing near them; leaves 
lanceolate, flowers white. Calcutta, in 1822, by the late Mr. 
John Potts. Light sandy loam, with a little peat, and pro- 
pagated from cuttings, though with difficulty.—Taberneemon- 
tana gratissima. A lactescent stove shrub from Bengal, of 
delicious fragrance, with yellowish flowers in September, and 
propagated by cuttings. Soil, loam, peat, and sand, in equal 
quantities. —Sarcocéphalus esculéntus (Gard. Mag.vol.i.p.164.) 
Noticed for the sake of correcting an error in a former volume 
of the Transactions, which stated the flowers to be pink, in- 
stead of a pale straw colour.—Bignon/a pallida. A small tree, 
with single leaves and lilac flowers. Soil, light sandy loam; 
cuttings in pure silver sand, under a bell-glass——Tephrosza? 
chinénsis. A small tree with a greyish warted bark, but the 
fruit being unknown, the genus to which it belongs cannot 
with accuracy be determined. Green-house; any light sandy 
soil, and propagated by cuttings, though with considerable 
difficulty.—Calyptranthes caryophillifolia. A small tree with 
virgate branches and compressed twigs. From Sumatra, in 


= 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 53 


4 822, aby Sir T. S. Raffles. Easy culture, and cuttings in. silver 
‘sand, under a hand-glass in a warm frame. 

Herbaceous Plants. Bevel nd abnormis. Of little beauty, and 
the easiest culture.—Gesnéria Douglaszz. Beautiful, with a 
fleshy tuberous root. From Rio Janeiro, by Mr. David Douglas, 
in 1825. “It flowers in the stove during almost all the sum- 
mer, requires to be cultivated in a moder ately light sandy soil, 
and is propagated with some difficulty by the Tae Lp 
ning7a Helleri, Curious; from Rio Janeiro, by Mr. Douglas. 
—Calathéa flavéscens. Pretty, little, stemless, broad leaves, 
finely nerved across, and yellow flowers in sessile heads. Stove, 
loamy soil, division. Worth wishing for—Commelina cucullata. 
‘A creeping annual, with csesious downy leaves, and small 
pale blue flowers in October.—Cleome rosea. A beautiful ten- 
der annual, from Rio Janeiro, with bright rose-coloured flow- 
ers from May to October, on branches proceeding from a 
fine, upright, central stem, giving the whole plant the air of a 
vegetable ‘candelabrum. Culture like the balsam. Worth asking 
for. —Gynandropsis pulchélla. A pretty little tender annual, 
from Maranham.—Aspidistra punctata. Obscure, but curious. 
‘Growing freely in peat and loam, and propagated by division 
of the roots. 

Orchideous Plants.—Rodriguezza planifolia. Slightly furrowed 
bulbs, in clusters, with spreading linear leaves, and greenish 
yellow flowers. ‘A tender stove epiphyte, preserved with 
difficulty by being planted in rotten wood, or decayed vege- 
table matter.”—-Liparis foliosa. A tender stove epiphyte, with 
channelled leaves.—Ccelogyne fimbriata. A pretty little creep- 
ing plant, from China, with yellow flowers. — Brassavola 
nodosa. An epiphyte, with dull green leaves, tinged with purple, 
and snow-white flowers. Grown in decayed wood or bark, in 
which a little moss may be mixed.— Dendrobium crumenatum. 
A branchy epiphyte, with pure delicate white, highly fragrant, 
but quickly perishable blossoms. Cultivated readily by being 
attached to a stump of decaying wood, and propagated by 
division of the branches.—Oncidium pibes. Dwarf, dumpy, 
little green bulbs, with solitary leaves, and yellow olive-green 
flowers. Cultivated with some difficulty in decayed wood or 
leaf mould. 

Bulbous Plants. — Brodie‘a zxioides. Curious, with blue 
flowers. Cool frame, out of the reach of frost.— Gilliésza gra- 
minea. “‘ From its want of beauty, it is out of the pale of 
horticulture, and can only be considered as a botanical curi- 
osity.” —Griffinza hyacinthina. A beautiful lily, flowering freely 
in October and November in the stove, in light, neh sandy 

E 3 


54 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


loam.— Uropétalon longifolium. Dull bluish green flowers, 
with no pretensions to beauty.—Phycélla corisca. An ex- 
tremely handsome plant, very like Amaryllis ignea (now Phy- 
célla ignea) ; it throws up from the centre of the narrow leaves 
“¢ a stout scape about a foot in height, which is crowned by a 
candelabrum-like umbel of long tubular flowers of the most 
vivid crimson.” Light sandy loam, and offsets. Worth having. 


7. Account of a protecting Frame for Fruit Trees on Walls. By 
Mr. John Dick, Gardener to the Right Honourable William 
Trotter, Lord Provost of Edinburgh, at Ballindean, in Perth- 
shire. 


The object is to protect wall fruit, when ripe, from wasps, 
flies, and birds; and the same frame may be put over the 
trees in spring, to protect the blossoms from the frost. The 
construction at first sight appears rather intricate, but it will 
be understood by the following description, premising that the 
screen is of thin semi-transparent canvass, about thirty-six 
inches broad, made of yarn spun from the best flax, and sold 
in Dundee at 5d. per yard. The edges and seams of the 
screen are bound with tape, which costs 3d. per yard. The 
screen runs on two wires, placed at top and bottom of the 
frame, and kept tight by screws at the extremities. 


H 
: 
{ 
: 
H 
¥ 
: 
; 
d 
H 
iM 
; 
3 
Hf 
i 
5 
t 
s 
' 
a 
uu 
i 


Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 55 


A view, plan, and section of this frame (fg. 21.) are given in 
the Horticultural Transactions, and thus described : — 
\ 


‘1 2 5 4 arethe four corners of the wooden frame, when joined together 
and fixed upon the wall. 

5 5 are wooden facings fixed on the front edge of the sides of the frame, 
for the reception of the screen within them. 

6,111 are similar facings on the top and bottom, but movable on hinges, 
shown at !11, for the convenience of putting the rings of the screen 
upon the iron wires, 9 9 9 9. 

7777 are the breadths of the screen, strengthened by slips of tape 2 2 
sewed upon the seams. ‘ 

8 8 are two upright pieces of wood (to which the screen is nailed), which 
slide under the facings 5 5, and are secured by the hasps 3 3 3 3, 

9 9 9 9 are the iron wires on which the screen slides by means of rings. 

4444 are thumb-screws for tightening the wires and preventing them 
from relaxing. 

555 5 are the rings upon the bottom wire. When the screen is adjusted, 
the lower facing 1.1 1 is folded up to 10 10, and fastened with square but- 
tons 6 6, 

11 11 11 11, the plan of the wall and the bottom of the frame, with a 
semicircular hole cut in the latter, sufficiently large to receive the stem of 
the treé, and thus to permit the frame being fixed close to the wall. 

12 12 12 12, the section of a side of the frame and of the wall. 

13 15 are the top and bottom stops to keep the screw in its place. 

14 is a piece of cloth loosely suspended between the wall and the up- 
right stake 15, to receive the fruit that falls off the tree. The stake 15 is 
repeated at convenient distances in the frame. 


Mr. Dick’s frame answered perfectly last summer in the 
garden of the Horticultural Society. 


Art. II. Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. Part 1. 
of Vol.IV. Edin. 8vo. pp. 272. 5 Plates and Wood-cuts. 8s. 


Tue Transactions of this Society have hitherto been pub- 
lished in numbers; the present Part includes Numbers xiii 
and xiv., and is more respectably got up than the preceding 
volumes. The first hundred pages are occupied by lists of the 
Society, accounts of premiums awarded from June, 1819, to 
October, 1826, and a copy of the charter of incorporation of 
the Society granted in October, 1824. The principal subjects 
for which premiums were given for 1824, and to the present 
time, will be found in the proper department in the Gar- 
dener’s Magazine. “ Documents regarding the Experimental 
Garden, with an engraved plan,” is the next paper, for the 
essence of which we refer to Gard. Mag. vol.i. p.90. This 
garden is to be formed and maintained, “ 1. By subscriptions 
for shares of twenty guineas each. 2. By charging every 

EA 


56 Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Socsety. 


_ ordinary member, not being a shareholder, with one guinea 
yearly towards the funds of the garden. 8. By charging an 
admission fee of two guineas. 4. By voluntary subscriptions.’ 
Besides home-subscribers and shareholders, it is gratifying to 
see nearly forty shareholders resident in India, several of whom 
have taken two shares each. Such is the love of the soil 
natal, and the hope of one day returning to it. 

A man born in London or Paris becomes attached to the 
forms and usages of civilised society, and, in the after period of 
his life, feels himself at home in every large city; born any 
where else, his passions and affections grow up among parti- 
cular kinds of manners and scenery, to which his heart for 
ever clings, and from which he only separates in the hope of 
one day returning with redoubled capacities of enjoyment. 
It was wise in the Caledonian Horticultural Society to turn the 
exercise of these feelings to account. 

The first memoir is, 


1. Account of a new Mode of grafiing Camellias. By George 
Dunbar, Esq. Rose Park. 1 Copperplate. 


Described in Gard. Mag. (vol. ii. p. 33.) as practised by 
Mr. Pike. April, September, and October are the best 
periods for performing the operation, because at these two 
periods camellias begin to make new growths; but April’is 
much the best season, as the shoots are then more vigorous. © 


2. Remarks on the French Methods of cultivating the Peach Tree. 
By Mr. John Smith, formerly of Hopetoun House Garden. 


The French practice differs from ours in the following 
particulars : — 

1. In some of those subordinate operations which neces- 
sarily find a place in every system of management. 2. In the 
iorm of the tree and the reproduction of bearing branches. 

i. The incessant efforts of a tree trained against a wall to 
regain its natural position have given rise to various operations, 
such as nailing, tying, pruning, disbudding, &c.; and the French 
have had recourse to various modifications of these, which 
are either neglected, or partially used in this country. For 
example, the growth of spongy foreright shoots and back 
shoots is prevented by picking out the buds which produce 
them; an operation known as ébourgeonnement @ sec. To 
equalise the strength of young shoots, the points are pinched 
out of those which are the most vigorous. “ Before these can 
again push out, they must have become to a certain degree 
ligneous, and have formed perfect wood-buds at their points. 


Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 57 


While this is taking place, the unmutilated weaker shoot 
acquires the necessary strength.” Branches of wall trees 
which are left loose, and capable of being moved by wind, 
grow more vigorously than such as are attached to the wall; 
hence the obvious rule to nail or tie the strongest shoots first. 
An upright shoot grows more freely than a bent one; hence 
to reduce two inequal shoots to an equality, elevate the weaker 
and depress the stronger. On the same principle the weaker 
shoots are left on the upper side of an inclined branch, and 
the stronger shoots on the under side. “ Every experienced 
gardener knows that a peach tree, without regularity, can 
neither be productive nor long-lived,” and that the operations 
mentioned are of “ the utmost moment, since they enable us 
to maintain the equilibrium of the sap,—to husband the 
resources of the tree, and obviate the necessity of repeated 
amputation, of which the peach tree is extremely impatient.” 

2. The peach tree is trained by the French in the open fan 
manner, which is considered the most effective in suppressing 
the direct channel of the sap in facilitating the reproduction of 
branches. ‘They divide the tree into two equal portions, 
which they spread out diagonally, leaving the centre com- 
pletely open ; a practice which enables the cultivator to accom- 
modate the tree to low walls, and which contributes much to 
ease, freedom, and regularity, in the operations of pruning 
and training. ‘This is the practice at Montreuil, and appears 
to have been invented about the beginning of last century, 
though scarcely known till brought into notice by the Abbé 
Roger Schabol in 1755, the most eminent horticulturist of his 
time. (Encyc. of Gard. p.1118. A. D.1767.) According to 
this principle, the fundamental form of the tree is that of 
the letter V.; the two principal or mother branches (mere- 
branches) being attached to the wall atan angle of 45°. “The 
other branches are all situated on these principal limbs, and 
‘diverge from them at angles varying with the age and vigour 
of the tree.” 

Count Lelieur, in his Pomone Francaise, has described a 
mode of training which he calls Dumoutier’s (4 la Dumoutier), 
from the name of its inventor. It resembles that of Mon- 
treuil, but differs from it by the entire renovation of the bear- 
ing shoots every year, which, being cut down almost to their 
insertion, give a pinnated appearance to the branches. In this 
particular it coincides with Seymour’s mode of pruning. (Gard. - 
Mag. vol. i. p. 128., and vol. ii. p. 295.) It is observed byMr. 
Smith, that a near approach to Lelieur’s directions has been 
made by Harrison (Treatise on Fruit Trees), in his excelient 
directions for the treatment of peach trees. 


58 Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 


The common practice in France is to plant'a stock of the 
almond or plum where the future tree is destined to remain. In 
the summer after planting, two buds, nearly opposite each other, 
are inserted in the stock: these produce the future mother 
branches, which are trained nearly in a vertical po- 49 
sition (fig. 22.), and at the first pruning are cut 
down to about fifteen or eighteen inches in \\\y 
length, and the buds, both before and behind, 
disbudded. The second year’s growth produces 
side branches, and at the end of the third sum- 
mer these have laterals. (fig.23.) At the end 


k. be of nine years, the appearance of a tree 
sj trained @ la Dumoutier is not unlike 
ru SU | that of one of Seymour’s trees, with 


[pee this difference, that the branches pro- 
ae ceed from two separate arms, instead 


of from a central trunk. It is proper 
to observe, however, that the engraving 
given in the Caledonian Memoirs ( fig. 24.) bears so little re- 
lation to truth, that it cannot be considered of much use. It 


is said to be taken “ from a tree which in nine years covered 
a space of wall forty-two feet long and eight feet high.” If the 
length of this figure (jig. 24.) be taken at forty-two feet, its 
height will be nearer twenty feet than eight feet. The tree 


os So SS a ee y 
described by Lelieur, drawn to a scale (as in fig. 25.), assumes 
a very different appearance from the representation given by 


Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 59 


the Caledonian Horticultural Society; and we may be permitted 
to observe, that this figure, with some others in their Memoirs, 
are not very creditable to their pictorial taste. We may add, 
en passant, that there can be no reason worth listening to for 
giving copperplate engravings in such a volume as that now 
before us. The map of the garden might have been reduced, 
and. given with the references on two opposite pages. We 
repeat (p. 43.) that, where engravings are not to be coloured, 
and where aerial perspective is not essential to illustration, 
there is not one case in a hundred in which wood-cuts in 
the body of the text will not be found incomparably superior 
to separated figures or plans. 

In Dumoutier’s method, the pruning for fruit commences in 
the third year, and is thus performed : — The lateral shoots are 
cut back to a single eye, together with all other shoots which 
have no fruit buds, and at the same time are feeble. When a 
shoot promises blossom, it is generally at some distance from 
the point of insertion into the old wood, and the intermediate 
space is covered by wood buds. All the latter, therefore, 
which are between the old wood (fig. 26. @) and the blos- 
som (c), except the lowest(d), are carefully 
removed by ébourgeonnement. ‘This never 
fails to produce a shoot, the growth of 
which is favoured by destroying the 
useless spray above the blossoms, and 
pinching off the points of those which 
are necessary to perfect the fruit. ‘This ; 
is termed the bourgeon de réplacement. Barren shoots, when 
too vigorous to be cut down to their lowest eye, are treated 
exactly in the same manner. At the winter pruning, the 
branches which have borne fruit are cut down to the insertion 
of the replacing shoots, which, in their turn, are ébourgeonnée, 
bear fruit, and are cut out like their predecessors. In cases 
where the blossom has failed. in setting, or the fruit in stoning, 
when the shoot is too weak to ripen the fruit which are upon 
it, or when the crop is very early, this operation may be per- 
formed at any period in the course of the summer: it is then 
called reprochement a vert. Occasionally a very promising 
shoot, which has already fruited, is suffered to remain. The 
replacing shoot is cut back to its lowest eye, or, if it is vigo- 
rous, and there is room, it is made in the usual way to pro- 
duce a substitute. In either case, a new replacing shoot is 
obtained, to which the whole is invariably shortened at the 
end of the second year. The branch thus treated is styled the 
branche de reserve.” 


60 Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 


Another variety of the Montreuil mode of pruning is de- 
nominated Sieulle’s (@ Ja Stewile), from the name of its inventor. 
It is described in Mr. Neil’s very interesting Horticultural 
Tour, and in the Encyclopedia of Gardening, § 4505. The 
characteristic of this mode is, that the mother branches are 
never shortened, and that the wall is filled by the side branches 
proceeding from these. Much of the excellence of this mode 
depends on the exactness of disbudding, by which the force 
of the tree is economised; but, after a certain age, the two 
mother shoots are apt to become sterile in the production of 
branches. 

It is remarked by Mr. Smith, that we must not expect to 
find the pruning in French gardens, such as it appears in 
French books on gardening: ‘ but it is well to have an 
elevated beau ideal.” He concludes by noticing some of the 
defects of our own system. ‘ The adaptation of stocks to 
soils has not been sufficiently studied in this country. In 
France the peach is budded on almonds in dry situaticns, 
while such as are destined for heavy loams are inserted on 
plums. The French seldom venture peach trees on such 
clayey soils as we not unfrequently do.” (See Gard. Mag. 
vol. il. p. 167. 169.) 

“* Instead of budding the tree on the spot on which it is to 
grow, or transplanting it when, in technical phrase, it is a 
maiden, that is one year old, we, in our impatience, have re- 
course to trees which have been trained in the nurseries. 
Such plants, by a vigorous application of the knife, are made 
to produce an abundance of showy wood, and at the same time 
are so circumscribed, that they do not cover half so much 
wall as the French trees of the same age. The vegetable 
energy, thus confined within a narrow space is ready to burst 
forth, in whatever irregular manner chance may determine. 

« The principal members, which form the skeleton of the 
tree, are seldom sufficiently distinguished from the other 
branches. Taking their origin chiefly from the centre of the 
tree, they become too crowded, and they are further allowed 
to separate into an indefinite ee of subdivisions. ‘This 
defective arrangement, in general, and especially when com- 
bined with the foregoing cir ronmeumces! fails not to overthr« OW 
the equilibrium of the sap. 

«¢ Again, there is a want of distinction between the subor- 
dinate paerdber and the bearing shoots. The latter, tco fre- 
quently pass into the former, and then, in the confusion which 
follows, amputation either of larger or smaller branches. be- 
becomes necessary. In consequence of these irregularities, the 


\ 


Memoirs of the Caledoman Horticultural Society. 61 


reproduction of fruit branches is greatly impeded. Shoots 
preserved merely for fruit, or perhaps for no purpose at all, 
_are allowed to grow on till they have attained the length of 
several feet; and as they frequently run parallel, within a few 
inches of each other, they are entirely naked, except perhaps 
at the points where there may be two or three twigs, often 
too feeble to perfect the fruit which they produce. In such 
cases, the blossoms can neither be vigorous or abundant. 

_ “ Tt is not intended to recommend the whole of any one of 
the French methods above described ; but I am persuaded that 
some benefit may be reaped from their consideration, in the 
. way of practice, and perhaps still more in acquiring clearer 
notions. of what peach training ought to be.” 

Of all the various modes of pruning and training the peach 
which we have seen described in books, none appears to us so » 
truly perfect in theory as that of Mr. Seymour; but we have 
never had an opportunity of seeing it putin practice on anexten- 
sive scale, and have conversed but with few gardeners who have 
seen Mr. Seymour’s trees. The beauty of the Seymour sys- 
tem is its determinate form; there being a distinct reason why 
every side shoot, and every lateral on these shoots should be 
precisely where it is, and nowhere else, and this reason is of 
that practical kind, that it may always be determined by ad- 
measurement. ‘There may, however, be difficulties attending 
Mr. Seymour’s system, of which we are not aware, and there- 
fore we would much rather hear the opinions and experience 
of our readers on the subject, than give our own. A tree or 
two are in the course of training in this way in the Horticultural 
Society’s garden, which may be inspected with advantage by 
those who will take the trouble of examining the merits of the 
system. 


3. On the Cultivation of certain ‘Ornamental Plants in Flower-pots 
Jilled with Hypnum Mosses. By Mr. John Street, C.M.H.S. 
Flower-Gardener at Biel. ‘ 


A similar communication to that sent to the Horticultural 
Society of London, some account of which has already been 
given. (Gard. Mag. vol. il. p. 419.) Moss, Mr. Street thinks, 
** possesses, a power, to some extent, of regulating temperature 
more than most kinds of earth; that is, it resists extreme heat 
and extreme cold, and is not apt to lose all moisture suddenly, 
while it discharges superfluity of moisture. It does not act 
like some rich earths, giving out all its virtues at first, but be- 
comes gradually richer in decay, when a fresh supply may be 
added in the same space of pot room,” Mr. Street finds that 


62 Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 


potatoes planted in moss in the same way as they usually are 
in litter, though on a cold clay bottom, produce as good a 
crop as if dung has been used. He also finds that green moss 
laid in a heap becomes warm in a few days, and therefore 
thinks it may be serviceable in forming hot-beds. “‘ The de- 
composition will be very gradual, and the heat moderate and 
of long duration.” A medal was very properly voted to Mr. 
Street for his experiments on this subject. 

The remaining papers will be abridged in our succeeding 
Number. 


Art. III. Verhandlungen des Vereins zur Beforderung des Gar- 
tenbaues in den Koniglich Preussischen Staaten. Transactions of 
the Society for the Advancement of Gardening in the Royal Prus- 
stan States. Part Il. completing Vol. I. Berlin. 4to. 1824. 
7 Plates. 


_ Tuis part contains twenty-six articles, a number of which 
may be glanced over with advantage. 


39. Account of what passed at the Meeting held June 6. 1823. 


It was observed that the cocoa-nut palm, in its native 
situations in the Kast Indies, was frequently watered by the 
spray of the sea, and that the court gardener, Jacobi, had 
grown palm plants successfully in soil impregnated with salt- 
petre, as a compensation for salt water. 

(The shores of the most exposed part of the island of Cey- 
lon are skirted by a natural forest of cocoa trees, which forms 
a protecting screen to the vegetation of the interior. ] 


40. Some Observations on the Effects of the Frost on Vegetables, 
during the Winter of 1822-3. By Professor Link, of the 
University of Berlin. 

Plants, the construction of whose stems is formed by suc- 
cessive rings or layers of fibre, are less liable to be destroyed 
by frost, than such as are formed of only one ring or layer of 
fibre, though the stem in the one case should be as thick as 
in the other. It would follow from this deduction from ex- 
perience, that monocotyledonous plants should be more easily 
destroyed by frost than dicotyledonez, herbaceous plants 
more easily than trees, and stems and young shoots of one 
year’s growth more easily than those of three years’ growth, 
which is believed to be the case. When frost has destroyed 
part of the tree or plant, it is not considered advisable to cut it 
down, but to leave it to push wherever it can, and afterwards 


Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 63 


only cut away those parts on which no leaves have been 
produced. 


41. On grafting under the Bark. By Mr. Benade, Pastor and 
Rector of Hoyerswerda. 


After many years’ experience, Mr. Benade holds that 
grafting under the bark, whether for old trees or young, weak 
or strong scions, is the easiest, the most generally applicable, 
the surest of success, and the healthiest mode of grafting. He 
knows only one objection to it, which is, that the operation 
cannot be conveniently performed but while the sap is in 
motion, and when the bark will readily separate from the 
wood. As this is the case in trees only for a short period, it 
might prove inconvenient in extensive nurseries, where all the 
grafting was performed by one or two hands; but, in other 
cases, we can assert from our own observation, that slipping 
down the scion between the bark and the wood is the most 
certain mode of attaining success in this operation. What is 
meant by the healthiest mode of grafting, will perhaps be 
understood when we state 'that the Germans have a term 
applicable to the object of grafting, for which we have no 
corresponding expression in the English language; this is 
Veredelung, literally, ennobling: by which it appears that they 
consider the operation of grafting, the term for which is 
Pfropfen (to graft), not so much as a mode of propagating 
trees, as of ameliorating or ennobling their fruits. This seems 
to be the original idea of the use of grafting, the performance 
of the operation being supposed to ameliorate to a certain 
extent, independently altogether of the qualities of the stock 
or scion. Every reader knows’ that grafting in the present 
day is chiefly considered as a mode of propagating or perpe- 
tuating plants, though partly also of improving or modifying 
edible fruits. 


42. Opinion of the Committee on the foregoing Treatise. 


The Committee allow all the advantages mentioned by Mr. 
Benade, but that of its bemg “the most generally applicable.” 
The single period in which it is applicable, they say, is when 
the sap is rising in spring, a period which, in the climate of 
Berlm, seldom lasts longer than the two last weeks of April, 
and the two first of May. In all other respects, this mode of 
grafting is as good as Mr. Benade says it is. The Committee 
recommend the practice of all the different modes of en- 
nobling ; viz., inatching (copuliren), in February, March, and 
April; grafting under the bark (propfen hinter die rinde), 


64 Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 


in April and May; budding with the pushing-eye (oculirén 
auf’s treibende auge), in June. or July; budding with the 
sleeping-eye (oculiren auf’s schlafende auge), in August and. 


. Tule 


. Remarks on forcing Cherries. By Mr. Fintelmann, Gardener 
Bis the King, in the Isle of Peacocks, on the Lake at Potsdam. 


1. Cherries of the Double May sort (doppelte maikirsche) 
grafted on the common wild cherry, are planted in pots. in 
autumn in common garden soil, mixed with leaf mould. 
They are plunged in a sheltered situation, exposed to the sun; 
and, in the beginning of winter, the pots and roots are well 
protected from “fr ost, by being covered with litter. 

2. In the following spring, “the blossom buds are broken off 
as soon as they appear; and, by the end of June, all the shoots 
which have pushed freely iene their points pinched off, so as 
to leave not more than six buds, which buds by that opera- 
tion become blossom buds. 

3. The plants generally remain in pots only one year be- 
fore they are forced. Before they are‘ taken in they must 
at least have sustained 8° (Reaumur—14° Fahr.) of cold, 
otherwise they are found to break very irregularly. The 
blossoms are thinned out, so much so, that where fifteen have 
appeared, not more than three have been allowed to expand. 
The construction of the house in which the forcing is com- 
menced varies according to the season. When the trees are 
taken in in December and January, the glass of the roof must 
be much steeper than when they are not ‘taken in till F Sespner sy 
and March. 

4, Heat is communicated by flues in stoves, commencin 
with 46° Fahr.; the trees are frequently sprinkled with luke- 
warm water, endl the roots, which ought to have been kept 
quite dry for some time before, well Sanllaee with hot water. 
Mr. Fintelmann boils one half of the water, and mixes it with 
the other half; and he uses water of this temperature till 
within fourteen days of the trees coming into blossom. 

5. When the buds break out into ‘bloom, watering over 

*head with lukewarm water is left off, but the stems are kept 
moist by rubbing. them two or three times a day with a wet 
brush. During the blooming season, the temperature is 
raised from 46° to 67°, every third day 24° more heat being 
added. Abundance of air is given, and shade during bright 
sunshine. In boisterous weather gauze is placed over the 
openings through which the air is admitted, the advantage of 
which Mr. Fintelmann is well assured a after eight years’ 


Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 65 


experience. To cause the blossoms to set, the branches and 
Spray are frequently put in motion, but care taken not to move 
the main stem, by which the fibrous roots might be injured. 

6. When the fruit is setting and swelling, the temperature 
must be kept between 543° and 65$°. 

7. When the fruit is stoning, the temperature is lowered to 
59° for two or three weeks, during which period the house 
must be shaded in bright sunshine, and the plants watered 
over head once or twice a day. 

8. When the stoning is completed and the fruit begins to 
swell, the temperature is again raised to 65°, and no more 
shade given, in order that the fruit may acquire a high fla- 
vour, through the operation of the sun’s rays; to facilitate 
the action of which on the fruit, the superfluous leaves are 
removed. By this practice, plants begun to be forced in De- 
cember commonly produce ripe cherries in February; but 
Mr. Fintelmann has sometimes had them even in January, 
though without a good taste. i 

9. Recent experience has taught Mr. Fintelmann that 
cherries will force remarkably well in sawdust, or chopped 
moss, mixed with some powdered unburnt lime. Plants 
grown one year in two years old sawdust and a little powder 
of lime, put into the forcing-house on the 16th of January, 
gave ripe fruit by end of February. 

Mr. Fintelmann is considered by his countrymen as ex- 
celling in the forcing of cherries; and some of the points of 
his practice, such as shortening the shoots to produce blos- 
som buds, thinning the blossoms, the previous exposure to 
cold, and the use of hot water, seem worthy of the imitation 
of the British gardener. 

44. Remarks by the Committee on an Instrument for ringing the 
_ Bark of Trees, invented by M. Gerdun, Watchmaker of Stolpe. 

The instrument is not described; but the Committee state 
that it will answer the end proposed. ‘They very properly 
add, that ringing is a practice very liable to be abused, and 
that it should seldom or never be performed on stems or 
branches, but only on shoots of one or two years’ growth which 
are over-luxuriant, adding the usual caution, never to make 
the ring wider than may be healed over the following season. 
45. Abstract of what passed at the Meeting of the Society held 

August 10. 1823. 

Cactus specidsus has been flowered in the open air, and 
kept through the winter in a cold-house (im halten gewichs- 
haus) by M. Fleischinger. The temperature of the cold-house 


never exceeded 50°, and the pots were kept perfectly dry. 
Vor. IIT. — No. 9. F 


66 Catalogue of Botanical Works, ‘&c. 


The remainder of this paper’ enumerates the titles of ar- 
ticles approved of for publication, the substance of which we 
_ shall give in a future Number. 


Art.IV. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, 
Rural Architecture, &c. published since June last, with some 
Account of those considered the most interesting. 


BritTAin. 


Curtis’s Botanical Magazine, or Flower-Garden displayed; New Series. 
Edited by Dr. Hooker. In 8vo Numbers ;_3s. 6d. coloured ; 3s. plain. 


No. VII. for July, contains 
2748 to 2754.—Zygopétalon (zygo, to unite ; the five petals are united at 
the base) Mackizz; 20 and 1, and Orchidee. A plant of great beauty, and 
amongst the most showy of its family. 
Caryophyllis aromaticus ( fig. 27.), Clove Spice; 12 and 1, and Myr- 
taceze. A moderate-sized tree of the Kast India Islands, supposed to have 


AN AN SWI FIR 52) & 


\\) \Zz Z 
NZ 
ih 


a ‘ 


\ 
\ 


BUZZ 

( Aqua SS BB 
WN . 

ANYON) 


jj 
Zi, 
ZG 
‘ZZ 


merce is the unexpanded flower (a), the corolla forming a ball or sphere 
on the top, between the teeth of the calyx; thus, with the narrow base or 
germen tapering downwards, giving when dry the appearance of a nail (4): 
hence the French Clow, from which the English Clove is evidently de- 
rived. The uses of cloves in domestic economy and medicine are suf- 
ficiently known. “ The cloves are gathered by the hand, or beaten with 
reeds so as to fall upon cloths placed under the tree, and dried by the fire, 
or, what is better, in the sun. The fully formed berries (c) are preserved in 
sugar, and eaten after dinner to promote digestion.” 

Telfairia pedata; 22 and 5, and Cucurbitaceze Nhandirobeee. An extra- 
ordinary climbing plant, from the eastern coast of Africa. The fruit is 
three feet long, and eight or ten inches in diameter, full of seeds as large 
as chestnuts, which are as excellent and agreeable as almonds, and when 
pressed yield an abundance of oil, equal to that of the finest olives. Per- 
ennial ; on the margins of forests, enveloping the trees with its branches. 
Plants have flowered in the stove at Bury Hill. Mr. Telfair has sent seeds 
from the Mauritius to the Isle of Bourbon, New Holland, Otaheite, and 
New Zealand, and will thus “have the honour of giving a most useful 


Catalogue of Botanical Works. 67 


vegetable to mankind at large, as well as a name to a new and very beau- 
tiful plant.” 

Sida pulchélla; 16 and 13, and Malvaceze. New Holland, and nearly 
hardy.— Acacia penninérvis, Feather-nerved Acacia. 


No. VIII. for August, contains 

2755 to 2761.—Gungora (A. C. y Gongora, Bishop of Cordova, patron 
of Mutis) speciosa; 20 and 1, and Orchideze. Oneof the most curious of Bra- 
zilian epiphytes. From the garden of R. Harrison, Esq., at Aighburgh, near 
Liverpool. Flowers yellow, large, fragrant, and the cup at the base of the 
labellum filled with honey, and sometimes emptied and refilled in the course 
ofthe day. May; easiest culture.—Mpyristica officinalis, Officinal, aromatic, or 
true Nutmeg Tree ( jig. 28.) ; Dice‘cia Monadélphia and Myristicea. A tree 


or Spice Islands, from twenty to twenty-five feet high, 
with a greyish brown bark, whorls of spreading branches, elliptical smooth 
leaves six inches long, and flowers not unlike those of the lily of the 
valley. The fruit is a drupe, of the size and somewhat of the shape of 
a small pear (a). “ The flesh, which abounds in an astringent juice, is of 
a yellowish colour (6), almost white within, and four or five lines in thick- 
ness: this opens into two, nearly equal, longitudinal valves (¢ d), and pre- 
sents to view the nut (e), surrounded by its arillus or mace (/), which soon 
drops out, and the husk (4) withers.” The colour of the nut when fresh is 
a brilliant scarlet; when dry it becomes horny, brittle, and of a yellow 
brown ; the shell (g) is very hard, and not above half a line thick; it en- 
velopes the kernel, or nutmeg of the shops (2), which is of an oval or ellip- 
tical form, pale brown, and afterwards furrowed on its surface. Its outside 
is very thin, its inner substance or albumen (2) firm, whitish, with red veins, 
abounding in oil. The tree bears both blossoms and fruit at all seasons of 
the year, and assists, with other aromatic trees and shrubs, to form that 
atmosphere of fragrance in the upper regions of the air, in which the na- 
tives believe the birds of paradise perpetuaily float. “ Long before the East 
India Islands were discovered by the Portuguese, the nutmeg, as well as the 
clove, seems to have been known in Europe through the medium of 
Persia and Arabia, and, since the year 1510, when the first Portuguese 
navigators visited those islands, they have probably been known as an 
article of commerce; yet, down to the time of Linnzeus, nothing was 
known of the plant that produced this precious fruit, nor till M. Céré, 
director of the royal gardens in the Isle of France, communicated speci- 
mens and observations to the Chevalier de Lamarck.” The Dutch, having 
possession of the Spice Islands in 1619, encouraged to the utmost of their 
power the cultivation of the nutmeg in a few of them, pursuing the same 


igh BP 


68 Catalogue of Botanical Works. 


line of policy as they did with regard to the clove, and long retaining the 
monopoly of culture : but, in 1772, M. Poivre introduced the nutmeg to 
the Isles of France and Bourbon, as well as the clove; from thence it was 
sent to the West India Islands, and afterwards taken by the British to 
Bencolen, in Sumatra, where it is grown in the greatest luxuriance. The 
Dutch appear to have been totally ignorant of the dicecious nature of the 
nutmeg tree, and of the consequent sterility of many of the trees; but the 
French, in the Isle of France, ascertaining that one male plant is sufficient 
for a hundred females, graft seedling plants with the two sexes in that pro- 
portion, and hence, besides having no superfluous trees, the plantation 
comes much sooner into bearing. The culture of the nutmeg does not 
succeed so well in the West as in the Hast Indies, as the Rev. L. Guilding 
(Gard. Mag., vol. i. p. 123.) experienced in the Isle of St. Vincent. In the 
Moluccas, the fruit is gathered in July, November, and April; the outer 
pulpy coat is removed, and afterwards the mace, with a knife. “The nuts 
are placed over a slow fire, when the shell becomes very brittle, and the 
seeds, or nutmegs, drop out: these are then soaked in sea-water, and im- 

regnated with lime, a process which answers the double purpose of secur- 
ing the seeds from the attack of insects, and of destroying their vegetating 
property. It further prevents the volatilization of the aroma. The mace 
is simply dried in the sun, and then sprinkled with salt water, after which 
it is fit for exportation. The uses, both of the mace and nutmeg, are 
well known, whether in a medical or ceconomical point of view. The 
whole fruit, preserved in sugar, is brought to table with the dessert, but not 
till after the acrid principle has been, in a great measure, removed by re- 
peated washings. An essential oil is obtained from the nutmeg and the 
mace by distillation, and a less volatile one by expression.” Plants may be 
had in the nurseries, and their culture and propagation resembles that of 
other individuals of the same natural order. 

Ceratiola (the dimin. of keras, alittle horn; the flowers) ericoides, Heath- 
like Ceratiola ; Empetréz. A twiggy shrub from sandy soils in South Caro- 
lina. Its specific name and the family to which it belongs will, or ought, to 
convey to the reader every other idea that he could desire asto its appearance 
and culture.—Sida méllis, Soft-leaved Sida; Malvaceze. A stove mallow-like 
shrub of ten or twenty feet, with orange-yellow flowers in abundance. 
Peru. Easiest culture.—Dorsténia ceratosanthes, Horny-flowered Dor- 
stenia; Urticée. A stove herbaceous plant from South America, with a 
very curious receptacle.—Gnidia (from Gnidia in Caria, according to 
Dioscorides and Pliny) tomentosa, Downy Gnidia; Thymelée. A twiggy 
shrub of three or four feet, with yellow flowers in March and April. 
Cape of Good Hope ; and the easiest culture. 

The cover of this Number contains an address “to those who have in- 
complete sets of the Botanical Magazine,” in. which Mr. Curtis, the highly 
respectable proprietor, expresses his hope that the additional sixpence, 
which he is under the necessity of puttifig on some reprinted numbers of 
the old series, will not “ disturb the confidence of his numerous friends and 
subscribers.”’ He also states that the sale of the new series is increasing, 
and that “ he hopes it will soon reach to that extent which will become 
profitable ; although, to uphold a work, the parent of all works of a like 
nature, and originating in his family, he would even conduct it without 
profit ; yet he cannot but hope, that in the end he shall find verified, that 
reward sweetens labour.” We confidently hope that this will be the case, 
and that Mr. Curtis’s recent and continued exertions to improve his work, 
coupled as they are with so much honourable and liberal feeling, will be duly 
appreciated by the public. To those who know little of the arcana of 
authorship and publishing, it may seem, on the part of a tradesman, a mere 
figurative expression, to say that he will carry on a work without profit ; but 


Catalogue of Botanical Works. 69 


those who know Mr. Curtis, and have seen his splendid works on camellias 
and florist’s flowers, which never can have returned him a tithe of their 
cost, will readily believe his assertion. 


Edwards’s Botanical Register. Continued by John Lindley, F.LS, In syo 
Numbers. 4s. coloured. 


No. CXLIX. for July, contains 

1074 to 1080.— More‘s catenulata, Chain-dotted Mora. Nearly akin to 
M. iridioides. Stove; May.—Acacia subcertlea, Blue-barked Acacia. Hand- 
some, remarkable for the fine copious blue bloom with which it is covered.— 
Convolvulus scrobiculatus, Pitted Convolyulus. A twining annual from Ame- 
rica, remarkable for the deep pits of its leaves.— Urvillea ferruginea ; 8 and 1, 
and Sapindacee. A remarkable stove plant, twining and clinging by means of 
the lowest pedicels of its racemes, which are sterile and converted into ten- 
drils, to the length of twenty feet—Caméllia reticulata. A splendid new 
species brought from China, by Captain Rawes, to T.C. Palmer, Esq., at 
Bromley. (Gard. Mag., vol-i. p. 341.) It is distinguished by its rigid; flat, 
strongly reticulated leaves! atttelco by its silky ovartum.—Psidium (a name 
of Dioscorides for the Pomegranate) pyriferum, Pear-bearing Guava. P. 
pyriferum, pomiferum, polycarpum, and Cattleianum, are readily fruited in 
our stoves: the last, or purple Guava, is the most valuable, and has pro- 
duced abundance of excellent fruit, with no trouble, in the stove of the gen- 
tleman whose name it bears as a specific distinction.—Stachys (stachys, a 
spike) grandidentata, Large-toothed Stachys; 14 and 1, and Labiate. A 
hardy herbaceous plant from Chile, by Mr. M‘Rae to the Horticultural 
Society in 1825. Mr. Raealso sent S. albicaulis, a remarkable species, and 
some others in the Horticultural Society’s garden. 


No. CL. for August, contains 

1081 to 1087.—Anandssa bracteata, Crimson-bracted Pine-apple; 6 and 1, 
and Bromeliacezee. “ A superb plant, the great merit of which consists in 
the clear deep crimson bracteze of the flowering spike, which retain their 
colour, although less brilliant, in the ripe fruit. The fruit is also of very 
good quality. Introduced from Brazil, by way of Portugal, im 1820, by R. 
Barclay, Esq. F.L.S.H.S.—Collinsia (a botanist and.mineralogist of Philadel- 
phia) parviflora, Small-flowered Collinsia. “ A hardy annual from Colombia, 
more remarkable asabotanical curiosity, than asan ornamental plant.””—Cal- 
ceolaria integrifolia var. angustifolia; Scrophularinez. (Gard. Mag., vol. ii. 
p- 187.) “A half-hardy suffruticose plant, well adapted for planting in the open 
border in masses during the summer, and for ornamenting a conservatory in 
winter. It is always in flower, and is cultivated and increased with the 
greatest facility. Ifnailed to an east or west wall, and protected with a 
mat, it will survive our winters, and flourish exceedingly ; but, on a south 
wall, it is too much scorched by the sun.” 

Tabernzemontana gratissima; Apocyne. A fragrant stove shrub, with 
white flowers in September, propagated by cuttings, and growing freely in 
loam, peat, and sand. (See p. 52.) —Muscari (moschos, musk) glaticum, 
Glaucous-leaved Musk Hyacinth. A bulb from Persia, apparently quite 
hardy.—Dianthus (dios, divine, anthos, a flower; of divine beauty) suf- 
fruticdsa. A half-hardy suffrutescent Chinese pink, flowering freely from 
July to October, and highly deserving of cultivation. It has not been dis- 
covered in a single state, and is probably only a variety of the common In- 
dian Pink, Dianthus chinénsis. 

O’phrys (ophrys, eyebrow; arched form of the leaves of the calyx) 
atrata, Dark-dipped Ophrys. From Rome to the Horticultural Society in 1826, 
by Signor Mauri; the roots dried, and packed in paper like seeds! It is 
observed by Mr, Lindley, that the roots of several other orchideous plants 
of the South of Europe were received from Signor Mauri, similarly packed, 


F 3 


70 Catalogue of Botanical Works. 


at the same time, and that “ they have all succeeded perfectly, although 
when the roots arrived in England they were so shrivelled in appearance, 
that it was not expected that they would have survived.” The experience 
thus gained, it is hoped, will not be lost on botanical collectors. We wish 
it had been stated at what period in the growth of the plant the roots were 
taken up to be dried: the orchidee of this country, it is generally con- 
sidered, are best removed when coming into flower ; but, we presume, these 
bulbs must have been taken up by Signor Mauri when the flowers and 
leaves were beginning to decay. 


Botanical Cabinet. By Messrs. Loddiges. In 4to and 8vo Parts. 5s. and 2s. 6d. 


Part CXXIIL, for July, contains 

1221 to 1230.—A'cer h¥bridum. A fine bold-leaved tree, from the east of 
Europe ; perfectly hardy, and of the easiest culture.—Hovea linearis. New 
South Wales. Green-house; seeds; sandy peat.—Styphélia viridiflora. A 
moderate-sized shrub from Port Jackson in 1791. Green-house ; cuttings ; 
sandy peat.—Dracee‘na terminalis. A magnificent red-leaved plant, from the 
Kast India Islands, where it is planted by all the inhabitants for ornament, 
and to mark the boundaries of their gardens. Cuttings ; loam and peat.— 
Acacia taxifolia. Handsome.—Epacris paludosa. An elegant white-flowered 
heath-looking shrub, two feet high, from New South Wales in 1824, Green- 
house ; cuttings ; sandy peat.—Polygala grandiflora. Elegant ; nearly al- 
lied, but more beautiful than P. myrtifolia. Cape of Good Hope. Layers ; 
peat and loam.— rica patens. Bushy. A foot in height, and reddish purple 
flowers in April.—Grevillea pubéscens. A low bushy shrub from New Hol- 
land in 1824.—Epidéndrum polybilbon, a curious plant from Jamaica, of 
easy culture. 
Part CX XIX. for August, contains 

1251 to 1240. — A’Inus cordifolia, Heart-leaved Alder. A beautiful tree 
from Naples in 1820, perfectly hardy, and deserving a place in every shrub- 
bery.—Trillium erythrocarpum. A mountain bog plant of Pennsylvania and 
other parts of North America.—Chorizéma Henchmanni. A weak straggling 
shrub, with a profusion of highly beautiful pea-flowers in April and May. 
New Holland. Cuttings; sandy peat.—Daviésia acicularis. A low shrub, 
with‘prickly leaves, and yellow flowers in May. New South Wales. Seeds; 
sandy peat.— Acacia brevifolia. “ A most brilliant plant, not many flowers 
being of a brighter yellow.” New Holland. Cuttings ; loam and peat. Pul- 
tene‘a candida. A bushy shrub, thickly beset with leaves, which are covered 
with downy hairs; bright flowers in May. New South Wales, by Mr. Mackay. 
Cuttings ; sandy peat.—Cameéllia japonica var. coccinea. A scarlet-flow- 
ered Camellia, raised from seeds by Mr. Alnutt of Clapham. —Bossize‘a len- 
ticularis. A shrub of little more than a foot in height, with pea-flowers, from 
New Holland in 1823.— Erica tetragona.—Cypripédium arietinum. (p. 71.) 


Flora Australdsica: by Robert Sweet, F.L.S. &c. Monthly. 3s. coloured ; 
2s. plain. 


No. II. for July, contains 

5 to 8. — Oxyldbium (oxys, sharp, and Jobos, a pod) obtusifolium ; Legu- 
minosz, Papilionaceze Sophoree. “A pretty, dwarf-branching, upright 
shrub,” with dark orange-coloured flowers. From King George’s Sound, by 
Mr. William Baxter, C.M.H.S. (the collector of F. Henchman, Esq. F'.L.S. 
H.S.) to the Clapton Nursery of Mr. J.B. Mackay, F.L.S. H.S. &c. in 1825. — 
Acacia Oxycédrus. A handsome, bushy, spreading evergreen shrub.—Gre- 
villea concinna. A handsome, erect, bushy, evergreen shrub, from the green- 
house of Robert Barclay, Esq. F'.L.S.H.S., of Bury Hill—Pimélea decussata; 
Thymélez. A handsome, upright-branching, evergreen shrub, from the nursery 
of Mr. J. B. Mackay, to whom it was presented by W. T. Aiton, Esq. from 


6 


Catalogue of Botanical Works. (ie 


the Botanic Garden at Kew,—a circumstance that weare glad to mention, 
and should be happy to have occasion frequently to repeat, as a symptom 
of improved feeling towards his brethren, in the Director of the king’s 
gardens. 


No. ITT. for August, contains 

9 to 12. — Bossie*a rhombifolia; 17 and 10, and Legumindsz Papilio- 
nace Lote. A dwarf-branching, evergreen shrub, with brilliant yellow 
and purplish red pea-flowers. From New South Wales to the Fulham 
Nursery, by Mr. C. Fraser. — Melaletica scabra; 18 and 12, and Myrtacez 
Myrtéz. A pretty evergreen shrub, resembling a small cypress or cedar. 
All the melaleucas are of a singular kind of beauty; elegant, showy, splen- 
did, and not very common, though of easy culture. — Orthrosanthus (or- 
thros, morning, anthos, a flower) multiflorus ; 5 and 1, and Jridéz. A close- 
tufted, perennial, herbaceous plant, of the easiest culture in a cold-pit. From 
Lucky Bay, by Mr. W. Baxter, to the Clapton Nursery.— Acacia mollis- 
sima. A stiff, upright, bushy, handsome, sweet-scented shrub: one of the 
handsomest species of the genus, and a most desirable plant for a large 
green-house or conservatory; and, for the open air, as hardy as the common 
myrtle. From the nursery of Mr. Joseph Knight, F'.H.S., where there are 
some fine specimens of this and other rare and beautiful New Holland 
plants, in his magnificent curvilinear conservatory. 


Geranidcee. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. &c. In Numbers. 3s. each. 


No. XCI. for July, contains 
361 to 364. — Pelargonium diversilobum and Spini, Ciconium glabri- 
folium, and P. lasiocaélon. Handsome hybrids. 
No. XCII. for August, contains 
565 to 368. — Pelargonium imperiale, clarum, obovatum, and régium. 
Hybrids of unusual splendour, especially the first. 


The British Flower-Garden. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. &c. In syo Numbers, 
Monthly. 3s. each. 


No. LILI. for July, contains 

209 to 215.— Streptanthera (strepho, to twist; its anthers twist round 
the style) élegans ; Iridéze. A beautiful bulb, from the Cape, by Mr. Synnot. 
Flowered, for the first time, in the nurseries of Mr. Colvill and Mr. Lee.— 
Muscari macrocarpum; Asphodelée. Larger than M.moschatum, and 
said to be “one of the principal flowers with which the Turkish ladies 
contrive to correspond in secret with their lovers.” From Constantinople, 
in 1812, by Lady Liston, to the Fulham Nursery. — Wistéria chinénsis 
(Consequana of Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p.422.). One of the most beautiful 
of hardy climbers, which any one may grow by the side of his house. Layers, 
or young cuttings in sand, under hand-glasses, in a little bottom heat, will 
root readily. — Trillium erythrocérpum, Red-fruited Trillium ; Smilacée 
From sphagnous bogs, on the high mountains of Pennsylvania, Carolina 
and Canada; but succeeding well, in a bed of peat, in the nurseries of 
Mr. Colvill and of Mr. Knight. 


No. LIV. for August, contains 

215 to 216. — Cypripedium arietinum, Ram’s-head Ladies’-slipper. All 
the cypripediums are rare and beautiful. Among an importation of Ame- 
rican plants and seeds, made last spring by Mr. George Charlewood, F.L.S., 
and now growing at the nursery of Mr. Dennis, at Chelsea, are the present 
species, C. htmile, parviflorum, pubéscens, and spectabile, all flowering 
freely. — Erythrina Crista galli, Cockscomb Coral tree. A stout-growing 
spongy-stemmed shrub, generally kept in a stove or conservatory, but sup- 
posed to flower freely in the open air, if treated like Dahlia. This species is 

F 4 


72 Catalogue of Botanical Works. 


often confounded with E. /aurifolia, from which it may be distinguished by ; 
the smallness of the wings of the flower. — Noécca latifolia. A tall, strong- 
growing, upright, soft-wooded shrub, with terminal heads of small, white, . 
sweet-scented flowers. Mexico. Planted by the side of a wall in a southern 
aspect, in the garden of A.B. Lambert, Hsq.— Claytonia grandiflora. A 
prety, little, red-flowering plant, with a tuberous root, from the garden of 


. Barclay, Esq. F.L.S. &c. 


Cistinée. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. In svo, every alternate Month. 3s. 
No. XITI. for July, contains 

49 to 52.— Helianthemum pilosum. White flowers, and fit for rock-work. 
H. formdsum. A handsome, upright, bushy shrub, the largest-flowered 
species of the genus ; petals yellow ; scarcely hardy, but, like all the species ° 
of the family, may be easily preserved through the winter in a pit. — H. 
canéscens. Handsome rose-coloured flowers, and narrow canescent leaves ; 
“ the darkest-coloured flower, if not the handsomest of the genus; requires 
protection in frosty weather. — Cistus /aurifolius. A hardy, strong, hand- 
some-growing shrub, with abundance of large white flowers. Common 
soil, and quite hardy. 


The Botanic Garden. By B. Maund. In small 4to. Large, 1s. 6d. ; small, 1s. 


Nos. XX XI. and XXXII. for July and August, contain 

Crocus susijnus. Some experiments with the gathered flowers of this 
plant are related, by which it appears that, in a temperature of 70°, and 
within four inches of two lighted candles, they were, in rather less than an 
hour, as fully expanded as in the mid-day: sun.— Achillea Clavénne 
(in memory of N. Clavenna, an Italian botanist), Bignonia radicans, 
A’ster alpinus, Scilla bifolia, Schizanthus (schizo, to cut, anthos, a flower ; 
deep-cut segments of corolla) pérrigens (spreading), Saxifraga oppositi- 
folia, and Siléne (sia/on, saliva; viscid sudation on the stems, which fre- 
quently entraps flies, &c.) fimbriata, Fringed-flowered Catchfly. 


Medical Botany, §c. By John Stevenson, M.D., and James Morss 
Churchill, Esq., Surgeen. In Monthly Numbers. 3s. 6d. 


No. V. jor May, contains 

Solanum Dulcamira (dulcis, sweet, amara, bitter; in allusion to the’ 
flavour of the herb when chewed), Woody Nightshade, or Bitter-sweet 
Solanum; § and 1, Liride, Z. Solanee,J. On banks of ditches, 
in hedges, and on old walls, in most parts of Europe, from Norway to 
Greece. The twigs and berries are narcotic poisons to the human species, 
though the berries produce little or no effect on brute animals. Sometimes 
used in medicine as a diuretic. — Digitalis (digitale, a finger-stall, a thimble; 
in allusion to the form of the corolla) purpurea, Purple Foxglove. The 
most general colour of the flowers is purple, but it is also found wild with 
white flowers. One of the most showy indigenous plants of Europe; in 
scattered woods and coppices. A powerful narcotic poison, and valuable 
diuretic medicine, much used in the dropsy. — Paris (par equal in num- 
ber, every stem bears four leaves, and no more) quadrifolia (four-leaved), 
Herb Paris, One-berry, or True-love. (The four top leaves are set one 
against another in form of a true-love knot, and the plant in consequence 
was used in love philters.) Narcotic, but little used in medicine.—Tussilago 
(tussio, to cough) farfara ( farfarus, a name given by the Romans to the 
white poplar), White Poplar-leaved Coltsfoot. On marly clay soils in 
most, parts of Europe; considered pectoral and vulnerary by the ancients, 
and still a principal ingredient in British herb tobacco. “ A kind of tinder 
or touchwood is, in some countries, made of the roots, impregnated with . 
nitre. The nostrum called ‘ essence of coltsfoot ? is composed of bal- 
sam of Tolu, tincture of benzoin; and rectified spirit of wine; it contains 


Caialogue of Botanical Works.» 73 


no coltsfoot, and is certainly one of the most baneful medicines that 
could have been imposed upon the public in pectoral cases.” 
(No. VI. is analysed in Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 455.) 
No. VII. for July, contains 

25 to 28. — Rhéum palmatum, till lately considered as the true rhubarb; 
but Mr. Don having shown Dr. Wallich’s R. Emodi to be the medicinal 
lant, the authors of Medical Botany intend figuring that species also in a 
future Number. We think it very likely that the roots of various species 
are used, in the same way as the bark of different species of Cinchona is 
collected as the true bark. Any gardener who has spare plants of any of 
the sorts grown for the stalks, may slice and dry their roots, and use them 
medicinally. — Tormentilla erécta. The roots contain more tannin than 
any other vegetable, excepting galls and catechu. Sometimes used as an 
astringent. — Iris florentina. ‘The dried roots smell like violets, and form 
the orris (iris) powder, used as a perfume, and in tooth-powder. — Aconi- 
tum napéllus. Every part of the plant is poisonous in its green state; but 
the deleterious and acrimonious qualities are nearly lost by drying. It has 
lately been used in fever, rheumatism, schirrus, &c. To remove it, as a 
poison, emetics or the stomach pump are resorted to. A person having 
eaten some of the leaves of the Aconitum became maniacal ; the surgeon . 
who was called to his assistance declared that the plant was not the cause of 
his disorder ; and, to convince the company that it was perfectly innocent, 
he eat freely of it, and soon after died in great agony. 


No. VIII. for August, contains 

Viola odorata, Scented Violet. The syrup of the flowers used medicinally ; 
and an aqueous tincture of them, as a chemical test, to change blue to red, 
and alkalies to green.— Cassia sénna. A shrub of Arabia and Upper Egypt, two 
feet high, with pennate leaves, and yellow pea-flowers. The leaves dried 
form the senna of the shops, a well known and active purgative. — Papaver 
(from papa, pap, or the soft food given to children, in which the seeds were 
put by the Greeks to make them sleep) Rhee'as (from rheo, to fall, in 
allusion to the petals of the flower, which drop soon after their expansion), 
Dropping-flowered, or Common Corn Poppy. Frequent in corn fields in 
Europe, but said not to occur in America. The syrup of the leaves has been. 
prescribed in coughs, and “ opium has been obtained from the capsules, but: 
in so small a quantity, as to render it an object unworthy of the trouble.” — 
A’corus (kore, the pupil of the eye; supposed by the ancients to cure 
maladies in the eye) Calamus (a reed), Reed Acorus, or Sweet Flag. A 
well known aromatic, indigenous in many parts of Europe, Asia, and 
America, in open situations, in shallow waters, or on the banks of rivers, but. 
never producing its spikes unless growing in water. ‘The root is aromatic, 
and frequently used as a substitute for, or in addition to, the cinchona 
bark. “ It may be chewed by dyspeptic persons, and the juice swallowed 
with advantage when tonics are required ; and, as it excites a copious se- 
cretion of saliva, it sometimes relieves the pain of toothache. .., The 
whole plant has been used for tanning leather; and it is supposed by some: 
that the French snuff @ la violette receives its scent from this root. 
Throughout the United States, it is used by the country people as an ingre- 
dient in making bitters.” In Poland, the floors of the better sort of people 
are strewed with it when they are going to receive company ; and the leaves, 
bruised by the feet of the guests, fill the rooms with a grateful odour, not 
altogether useless, as well as agreeable, in such a country. 

The figures in this work are equal, if not superior, to those of any other 
botanical periodical; but half the plants hitherto given have such slender 
claims to be considered medicinal, that there seems no sufficient reason for 
stopping short of half the vegetable kingdom. In our opinion, the most 
powerful poisons and medical plants ought to have been given first, and one 


74 Catalogue of Botanical Works. 


hundred plates would have included quite enough of both. When this was 
done, such plants as the corn poppy, violet, orange, &c. might have fol- 
lowed, if a demand was found for them. A medical botany, in the style 
and at the price of Maund’s Botanic Garden, is a desideratum. However, 
if there be a demand for such a medical botany as that now before us, the 
authors and publishers are perfectly justifiable in going on with the supply. 


The Florist’s Guide and Cultivator’s Directory; containing the choicest 
Flowers cultivated by Florists, including Tulips, Hyacinths, Carnations, 
Pinks, Ranunculuses, Auriculas, Roses, &c. Each Number will contain 
four faithfully coloured Figures; and every subject will be accompanied 
by its Name, History, Mode of Culture and Preservation, or any other 
Information likely to prove interesting or useful. The most valued sorts 
will be selected from the various Collections, and each Collection specified 
fram which the Drawings are made. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. The 
Drawings by EH. D. Smith, F'.L.8., Botanical Artist. To be continued 
Monthly, and ‘Twenty-five Numbers to complete a Volume. Price 3s. ; 
or plain, 2s. London. Ridgway. 


We are happy to announce this work, which will certainly supply a 
desideratum in botanical publications, and gratify the taste of a very con- 
siderable number who are admirers and cultivators of florist’s flowers, with- 
out pretending to botanical science. Under the care of Mr. Sweet, the 
directions for culture may always be relied on, and Mr. Smith may be con- 
sidered as a guarantee for the accuracy and beauty of the drawings. 


No. I. for July, contains 

1 to 4.— The Waterloo Hyacinth, Page’s Duchess of Oldenburgh Auri- 
cula, Taylor’s Glory Auricula, and Bataille d’Eyleau Tulip All handsome 
flowers, very well coloured, and with a page or more of description and 
remarks on their culture. With respect to new sorts of tulips, Mr. Sweet 
observes, “ Any person desirous of raising fine varieties from seed, might 
generally succeed by studying what colours two different flowers, when 
combined, would make; then take an anther from the darkest flower, and 
rub the pollen on the stigma of a lighter one; and the seedlings from that 
would be as near as possible intermediate in colour when come to per- 
fection.” 


No. II. for August, contains 

5 to 8.— Rose Brillante Tulip, Prince Galitzin Ranunculus, Lawrence’s 
Polyphemus Tulip (Gard. Mag., vol.i. p. 547.), Davy’s Juliet Pink. The last 
is a very fine flower, but we are sorry Mr. Sweet did not adopt a better 
name to denote its hybrid origin than Dianthus adulterinus var. Juliétz. 
It seems the plant is a hybrid between D. plumarius and D. caryophyllus, 
raised by Mr. Davy of the King’s Road, and partakes of the appearance 
both of the pink and carnation. It is well worth purchasing. On Mr. 
Hogg’s mode of breaking tulips (Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 44.), Mr. Sweet 
observes, that “ it is likely to succeed,” and “ that it is well worth sub- 
scribing for at a guinea each, as required by Mr. Hogg in his advertise- 
ment.” (Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p.556.) 


Fleming’s British Farmer’s Magazine, exclusively devoted to Agriculture 
and Rural Affairs. Quarterly. 4s. 


No. IV. for August, contains 
1. Original Communications. — Mr. Price’s Herefordshire Cow, engraved 
by T. Landseer. The Herefords are in general motley-faced, often with a 
large proportion of white intermixed with red, forming a kind of roan. 
The origin of this breed is very remote-—On Smut in Grain, by John Law- 
son, jun. of Elgin. The disease is described and illustrated by twelve well 
executed wood-cuts from drawings by Sowerby ; but these cuts are injudi- 


Catalogue of Works on Gardening, 8c. = = 75 


ciously printed together on a separate leaf, like a copper-plate engraving, 
instead of being intermixed with the text, so as to read along with it. The 
theory of the writer is, that smut in grain is produced by over-luxuriance 
in the plant, and that this tendency to over-luxuriancy will be checked by 
steeping in salts of iron, stale urine, &c., and by change of seed from one 
country to another. “ Should any new method be discovered of preventing 
smut in grain, that method will consist in diminishing the tendency which 
grain has to become over-luxuriant when removed from its natural situa- 
tion, and brought under cultivation by man.” — On Working Oxen, by J. 
Tull. A paper which we transferred to the Farmer’s Magazine, without 
consulting Mr. Tull, but which, we trust, he will approve of.—Salt.—Breeds 
of Cattle. — Agriculture of Jersey. —On the present condition of the 
British Farmer, and On Broom, Two papers also sent by us to Mr. Flem- 
ing. — Agricultural and Commercial Statistics. Letter I.-— Queries by our 
correspondent, W. M. of Argyleshire, in which he observes “ that it is not 
always the first proposer of any hypothesis that deserves the greatest appro- 
bation from the public, but he that persists, and compels us to give in, in 
order to avoid being longer assailed with the repetition of what we disiike 
or disapprove ; as the subject may be quite simple when at last admitted.”— 
On Breeding in and in; in which the practice is advocated, but as the 
roximity of the individuals is not stated, the arguments go for nothing. 
hat is to be gained from the “single fact” which this writer says is 
“worth all the theories in the werld,” that “ the wild, cattle in Chillmgham 
Park have not degenerated, although bred in and in for some hundred 
years?” In our opinion, not the theory of “in and in,” as the writer sup- 
poses, but that of breeding from the best specimens, whatever may be their 
consanguinity ; for, where animals are in astate of nature, the stronger and 
more pertect males will first feel the impulse of passion, and at all times keep 
in subordination their weak and imperfect brethren. According to Sir John 
Sebright’s notions of breeding in and in, the cattle at Chillingham may haye 
bred for some hundred years without being guilty of any such practice. 

On Prize-fed Gxen. In which the author thinks the practice disadvan- 
tageous to the community, by producing bad meat at an extra price. — On 
the Advantage of using steeped Barley instead of Oats, for the Use of 
Horses and Cattle. From which the balance appears to be 20 per cent. in 
favour of barley steeped for forty-eight hours, and then laid thick in a heap 
for forty-eight hours more.—The New Malt Bill.—Iinquiry concerning the 
Causes of the Distresses of 1825, 1826, and 1827. Letter II. by Mr. Gray. 
The diminution of the accommodation by the Bank of England, it is argued, 
is the grand cause, though other causes cooperated with it.—On Mr. Gray’s 
Letters. A well-written paper, in which Mr. Gray is blamed for treating 
certain writers of high consideration, as men of no real talent. — List of 
Smithfield Club.—Patents.—Biographical Notice of I\C.Curwen, Esq. M.P. 

Review of Bland’s Principles of Agriculture, a small 4s. volume, here 
favourably spoken of; England’s Prosperity, a philanthropic pamphlet 
by a Gentleman; The Trial of the English Farmer, a fictitious dialogue in 
defence of the farming interest. 

2. Agricultural Intelligence. — Corn Trade. Corn Averages Bill. Smith- 
field. Fairs. Scotland. Ireland. Wool Trade. Provision Trade. Hop 
Trade. Agricultural Reports for England, Scotland, and Ireland. Extracts 
from Foreign and Colonial Journals. News of Agriculture. Public Sales 
of Agricultural Property. Varieties. Obituary. 

5. Sporting Intelligence. —¥ox-hunting. Racing. The Turf. Stud 
Sales. The Chase. Cricket. Miscellaneous. 

Our readers will see from the above analysis what an extensive body of 
information is brought together in this work, which bids fair to rival in 
utility, as it already does in sale, that of its predecessor of the north. 


76 Catalogue of Works 


Hunt, T. F., Architect, St. James’s Palace, London : 

1. Half a dozen Hints on Picturesque Domestic Architecture, in a Series 
of Designs for Gate-Lodges, Gamekeeper’s Cottages, and other Rural 
Residences. Lond. 2d edit. 4to. 10 plates. 

2, Designs for Parsonage Houses, Alms Houses, &c. &c., with Examples 
of Gables, and other curious Remains of Old English Architecture. 
Lond. 4to. 21 plates. 

Architecture is an art in which, till lately, very few of its modern pro- 
fessors have been able to think rightly. With the revival of the Grecian 
style in this country, in the early part of the seventeenth century, few 
architects could carry their views farther than to rules and precedents in 
matters of detail. About the beginning of the eighteenth century, all was 
considered barbarous that was not Grecian ; towards the end of the same 
century, the Gothic style came into vogue; and, twenty years ago, every 
young architect was either “ all for the Grecian,” or “ all for the Gothic.” 
A superior education, and a certain degree of the study and practice of 
sketching objects in general, has led to a better knowledge of the abstract 
principles of composition as applied to form; and hence, in the present day, 
there is something like a dawning of liberal taste. 

The cause why so few architects have been enabled to think rightly in 
their profession may, as we think, be traced to their not being able to ana- 
lyse the sources of the pleasures derivable from works of architecture ; to 
separate the accidental associations of classical, historical, and imitative 
beauty, from the more permanent associations of fitness, grandeur, uni- 
formity, and variety. ‘The greatest stumbling-block to young architects, 
and the greatest hinderance to the progress of knowledge and taste in the 
art, both to artists and amateurs, are what is called the five orders. Till 
lately, whatever could not be reduced to them was considered as destitute 
of proportion ; a word which, as it is commonly applied, means that those 
forms are most pleasing to which we have been most accustomed. At any 
rate, the beauty of proportion is merely relative ; of one part of a building 
relatively to the whole, or of the whole relatively to some preconceived 
notions in the mind of the spectator. But the columns of a building have 
no more to do with the principles on which it is constructed, than the stair- 
case or chimney-tops ; and there might just as well be five orders of steps or 
of chimneys, as five orders of columns. 

In order to illustrate what we have asserted, we shall take a brief view 
of the different sources of satisfaction which buildings are calculated to 
afford, and these we shall find may all be included under the terms fitness 
and expression. 

The first and most obvious beauty sought in any building is its utility, or 
fitness for the purpose for which it was constructed. This implies in the 
spectator a knowledge of the usages of society in that particular country 
where the building was erected. The next principle is the fitness of the 
parts of the building for their respective situations and uses ; and this im- 
plies in the spectator a knowledge of the strength of the materials made use 
of in the structure. 

The second grand principle of beauty is that every building should, by its 
appearance, communicate the idea or expression of what it is; and it fol- 
lows, as a matter of course, that, in the expression of buildings, as in the ex- 
pression of other objects, there must be low, vulgar, common, cultivated, 
refined, elegant, dignified, and other expressions indicative of different grades 
in the progress of taste. ' 

The former part of architecture is founded on mechanical and general 
science; the latter, on the principles of beauty as applied to forms. The 
lowest degree of beauty, in respect to form, is regularity as opposed to con- 
fusion ; the highest degree, regularity jomed with variety.and mtricacy. A 
second source of beauty, in respect to form, consists of imitation; and this 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 77 


is one principal source of the pleasure derived both from Grecian and 
Gothic buildings. 

Examining the designs before us, in respect to their fitness for dwellings, 
we should say that the cottages of the lower class were rather deficient in 
accommodation. For example, the first design for a gardener’s house, nct- 
withstanding its elegant exterior, and its “ sitting-room, kitchen, and out- 
house, with a bedroom and seed-loft in the roof,’ has neither pantry nor 
closet, oven, pigsty, nor hen-roost. The expense of this building is esti- 
mated at 255/., which, compared with the accommodation, shows how much 
more anxious the architect has been to gratify the eye of his employer, 
than to study the comfort of the occupant. No. 5., a gamekeeper’s house, 
and No. 5., a bailiffs or forester’s house, are open to the same objections in a 
still greater degree, and to the additional one of not having their floors suf- 
ficiently raised above the adjoining surface. No. 9.,an entrance lodge, ar- 
ranged for ‘a sitting-room, kitchen, outhouse, and three bedchambers,” the 
estimated expense 490/., is very handsome; but how is it possible for a 
family of four or five persons to maintain in the interior any thing like that 
cleanliness, comfort, and decorum, that are required to correspond with the 
exterior effect, without the accommodations which we have enumerated 2 

Trying these designs by their expression, we consider them as too highly 
wrought; all the architectural details, we have no doubt, are appropriated 
with historical correctness, and the general effect of each building as a pic- 
turesque object is good; but the artist is everywhere too conspicuous: in 
the language of strict criticism, — the expression of art is greater than the 
expression of the subject, —the buildings are more an assemblage of Gothic 
ornaments and forms, than the walls and roofs of cottages. Weshould not, 
however, have objected to this, had we seen any thing like a corresponding 
anxiety about the interiors, and had Mr, Hunt evinced as great anxiety 
for old English comforts, as he has for the old English Gothic. 

In the designs for parsonage-houses, the author seems more at home. In 
these we find store-rooms, pantries, entrance-lobbies, closets of various 
kinds, “ places for hats, sticks, &c.” porches, vestibules, back vestibules, cor- 
ridors, book-closet, lean-to’s, rustic verandas, cloisters, and, in short, every 
thing necessary to the comfort of the occupant. With this work we are 
very well satisfied, and perhaps great allowance ought to be made for the 
other as a first performance. 

In the preface to Designs, &c., it is observed that, in a work like this, 
it can scarcely be hoped that plans could be formed “ to meet the requi- 
sites of every taste and every situation. Yet it is presumed, that the fol- 
lowing designs will enable those who are desirous of erecting houses agree- 
ably to their own preconceived ideas of beauty and comfort, to direct their 
professional builders with propriety and intelligence ; and whoever calcu- 
lates upon acquiring more from books will be deceived: a man not ‘ cun- 
ning in the art,’ may as safely trust himself with being his own lawyer, as 
with being his own architect.” In this remark we entirely concur; the 
chief use of books of architectural designs to country gentlemen is to furnish 
them with ideas on the subject, and to improve their taste. 

We are happy to learn that Mr. Hunt intends to publish a_ series 
of designs in the italian manner, which, from the simplicity of its outlines, is 
much more economical in the first erection, less subject to repairs, and far 
more durable than the multiform surfaces of the Gothic style. (See Gard. 
Mag., vol.ii. p. 479.) 

As to either the Grecian or Italian style being less adapted for this 
country than the Gothic, we regard the idea as chimerical. When any one 
style of building, or gardening, or any other art, comes into fashion, it is easy 
to find all sorts of arguments in its favour. Much of what is advanced by 
artists in such cases will not bear the test of rational examination. One 
style comes into vogue after another, entirely on the principle of novelty ; 


78 Catalogue of Works 


when artists are “all for the Gothic,” its “ greater variety of form and out- 
line is found better suited to the scenery of this country, than the Greek 
temple, or Italian villa; ”’ and, when they are “ all for the Grecian,” then 
its cubical masses and simple contour admit of the greatest quantity of ac- 
commodation within the smallest extent of wall and roof, while its horizon- 
tal lines contrast in a superior manner with the upright forms of woody 
scenery. There is no safety for an artist, but in being able in every case 
to trace to their source the causes of the pleasure which he derives from 
objects, and to exercise this power in the examination of his own composi- 
tions. 

Mr. Hunt is evidently an artist of superior taste and industry, and, we 
doubt not, will profit by these remarks; at any rate, after having had every 
thing he could wish in the way of praise from contemporary periodicals, any 
thing like a dissentient voice must be quite refreshing to him. 


FRANCE. 


Chevallier, M.F.F.: Flore générale des environs de Paris, selon la méthode 
naturelle ; description de toutes les plantes agames, cryptogames, et pha- 
nerogames, qui y croissent spontanément, leurs propriétés, leur usage dans 
la médecine, les arts, et économie domestique, avec 18 tableaux icono- 
graphiques. Tom. i. Paris. 8vo, pp. 648., col. fig. 16/7. 


This promises to be a valuable work. The first volume contains a new 
classification of agamous (non-sexual) plants, and a description of the nume- 
rous genera and species which belong to that class of the vegetable kingdom. 
The habitation of each species, the circumstances which favour its develope- 
ment, the mode of its reproduction, its uses or inconvenience in rural and 
domestic economy, are all carefully indicated. The figures are for the 
purposes of aiding the botanical descriptions. 


Fontanelles, F. F., Physician to the Prince de Condé : L’Art de cultiver les 
Miriers, by the Count Charles Verri; translated from the Italian, with 
Notes. Lyons. 8vo, pp. 87. 

The cultivation of the mulberry appears to be as popular on the Conti- 
nent as in Britain. The present work treats on the management of the 
plants, from sowing the seeds or planting the cuttings in the nursery, to 
gathering the leaves from the full-grown trees. It is favourably spoken 
of by Count Dandolo, by Deby, and others who have written on the 
subject. 

Dutrochet, M. H., French Correspondent of the Institute, and Author of 
some original Works on Physiological Botany: Agent immediat du 
Mouvement vital dévoilé dans sa Nature et dans son Mode d’Action chez 
les Végétaux et chez les Animaux. Paris. 8vo. pp. 226. 


The name of Dutrochet is well known im the scientific world, as con- 
nected with anatomical and physiological researches. (Gard. Mag., vol. i. 
p. 76. and vol. ii. p.254.) In the present work he is considered to have 
surpassed all his predecessors in illustrating the laws of vital motion in 
plants ; and, as far as we are able to form a decisive opinion on the subject, 
we think he has discovered the immediate cause of the ascent of the sap. 
The various phytologists who have preceded Dutrochet, and especially 
those of the latter end of the last century, have afforded us a very correct 
knowledge of the organs of plants; but it seems to have been reserved for 
this philosopher to have determined their use in a more precise manner 
than has hitherto been done. 

The organs by which the sap ascends, M. Dutrochet has demonstrated to 
be those simple tubes, utterly devoid of valves and without any lateral 
intercommunication, which are situated both in the soft and hard wood. 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 79 


They are the lymphatic tubes of Decandolle, the false trachee of Mirbel, 
and the corpusculiferous tubes of our author. They are not found in the 
bark, nor m the pith, and it is well known that the sap does not rise 
through these parts of the stem. 

The proper juice, or sap, after it has been changed by the leaves into a 
nutritious fluid, according to M. Dutrochet, descends both by the bark and 
the alburnum or soft wood, through tubular oblong’ cells. These oblong 
cells give out the nutritive juice contained in them through their sides, and 
in spring, when the sap ascends, it takes up a portion of this juice for the 
developement of the leaves and the growth of the plant. The pith neither 
has the power of conducting the ascending or descending sap. M. Dutro- 
chet agrees with Linnzeus, Dr. Darwin, and others, in considering it to be 
to the vegetable, what the brain and spinal marrow aretotheanimal. Dr. 
A. T. Thomson (Lectures on Botany, vol.i. p.579.) conjectures that the 
pith is intended chiefly to give bulk and stability to the young shoot ; be- 
cause, whenever this becomes ligneous and able to support itself, the pith 
dries up and diminishes in volume rather than increases. 

Besides the vessels for the ascent of the sap, and those for the descent of 
the proper juice, there are a third description of vessels, which radiate from 
the centre of stems to their circumference, and are commonly called medul- 
lary rays. ‘These rays are composed of oblong tubes or cells, extending 
from the centre of the wood to the bark, where they are met by similar 
tubes, in apparent but not real continuity in the bark. The radiated tracheze 
of the wood give out the ascending sap from the lymphatic tubes, and the 
radiating vessels of the bark give out the prepared sap, or proper juice, from 
the descending tracheze, or oblong cells, of the bark. ‘The juice and the sap, 
thus poured out between the wood and the bark, unite in forming a nutri- 
tive fluid, which, consolidating, adds to the bulk of the plant, in the form of 
alburnum or soft wood, and liber or inner bark. This, it must be acknow- 
ledged, is a very simple and beautiful theory, and altogether consistent with 
matter of fact. 

The next point which M. Dutrochet proceeds to determine is, the cause 
of the progression of the sap in the lymphatic tubes, oblong cells, and 
radiating tracheze. It is unnecessary to trace the proofs that there is no 
actual circulation of the sap in plants, but merely an ascending and descend- 
ing current, and a lateral diffusion and union. The condition of a plant 
requisite to admit of the exercise of these functions is, the susceptibility of 
becoming turgid by the application of water; in other words, that which 
distinguishes a dead plant from a living one is, the turgidity of its cellular 
parts. A dead plant may have its tubes, cells, and tracheze filled with fluid, 
but these will never become turgid; a living plant, on the contrary, which 
has been apparently dead, when one extremity is placed in fluid, becomes 
filled with it throughout to an excess productive of turgidity. In a sepa- 
rated part of a plant, the ascension of the sap depends on the susceptibility 
of turgidity of all the parts of the section. In a plant growing in the soil, 
the cause of turgidity, or of the rise of the sap, is to be found in the minute 
conical bodies which terminate each radicle. M. Dutrochet, by careful 
examination with a microscope, found that the minute conical termination 
of the radicle was furnished with other projecting bodies, like sponges, 
which perform the office of the piston of a syringe, and have the power of 
introducing into their cavity, and through their sides, the water which 
comes in contact with their exterior surface, and which, at the same time, 
opposes the exit of any fluid these spongioles imbibe. To this power M. 
Dutrochet has applied the term endosmose (endon, inward, osmos, impulse) ; 
and he has proved its existence, on a larger scale, in the coecum or blind 
gut of a young chicken, which he filled half full of milk, firmly closed at 
the open extremity, and then immersed in water. At the end of twenty- 


80 Catalogue of Works 


four hours the ccecum had imbibed seventy-three grains, and at the 
end of thirty-six hours, one hundred and seventeen grains of water, and 
become very turgid. From this time its weight diminished ; and, at the end 
of thirty-six hours, it had lost fifty-four grains of the water which it had 
absorbed, and the milk had become putrid. This experiment M. Dutrochet 
considers as demonstrating that the absorption of the water depends on 
the fluid in the cavity being denser than that which surrounds the organ ; 
and that, as long as this dense fluid remains undecomposed, the endosmose, 
or absorption, continues ; while, as soon as it becomes putrid, the endos- 
mose ceases, and the water passes out of the organic cavity as rapidly as it 
had entered it. Farther experiment proved to M. Dutrochet that when the 
ccecum was filled with a thinner fluid than that in which it was immersed, 
this thin fluid passed out of it into the other. This action he calls exosmose 
(ex, out, osmos, impulse). He farther proved that fluids of a less density 
than water, when the solution contained in the ccecum is alkaline, produce 
endosmose ; and, when it is acid, exosmose. 

It may readily be supposed that, if the end of the ccecum, instead of 
being firmly closed, had been furnished with a small tube, the absorbed 
fluid,.or endosmose, instead of producing an excess of turgidity, would 
have mounted in the tube. This M. Dutrochet found to be the case. He 
fixed the open end of a glass tube into the coecum of a chieken filled with 
a solution of gum and water; and having immersed the ccoecum in rain 
water, and supported the tube in a vertical position, he found that in 
twenty-four hours the fluid had ascended to the top of the tube, and that 
it continued to ascend and overflow at the top for three days. On the 
third day the water began to sink in the tube; and on the fourth day, the 
coecum being opened, the fluid was found.to be putrid. The experiment 
‘was repeated with the bladder of the carp, and with the inflated pod of the 
common bladder senna (Colutéa arboréscens), with equal success. 

The next thing that M. Dutrochet endeavoured to discover was, the 
cause of fluids passing through organic substances possessing the action of 
endosmose and exosmose; and, as the contact of bodies of different densi- 
ties, as zinc and copper, is a well known cause of electricity, that power 
naturally occurred to him as sufficient to account for the phenomena re- 
lated. He proved this by an experiment, which it would occupy too much 
room to relate at sufficient length to convey useful ideas to the general 
reader. The man of leisure and science will have recourse to M. Dutrochet’s 
book ; and the gardener may safely adopt it as a proved fact, that that im- 
mense power in a bleeding vine, with a bladder tied round the extremity, 
which Mr. Braddick (Hort. Trans., v. p. 202.) found distended with the 
rising sap till it became as hard as a cricket ball, and which burst at the 
end of forty-eight hours, has been clearly traced to the difference between 
the specific gravity of the water of the soil, and that of the nutritious fluid 
contained in the almost invisible points, or spongioles, which form the 
extremities of the fibres of all plants ! 

The effect of temperature on endosmose was, to increase the process, 
which is a proof of the influence exerted by electricity on the process ; it 
being a well known fact, that, by increasing the temperature of two metals 
which produce electricity, the electrical current is increased m intensity. 

In applying his observations to the vital statics of plants, M. Dutrochet’s 
turgidity is shown to be produced and maintained by endosmose, and the 
accumulated sap re-acted on by the natural elasticity of the sides of the 
minute organs which contain it. Hndosmose in the leaves takes place to 
supply the vacuum which is created by the transpiration of water from their 
surfaces. This explains the reason why cut plants absorb water, and why 
the roots and stem of a plant supply what sap they have to the leaves after 
being taken out of the ground. The difference of plants, in regard to the 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. ‘Sl 


temperature they require for the flowing or rise of the sap, is known to vary 
materially in different plants; and M. Dutrochet, with great apparent 
reason, thinks this is attributable to their different physical capacities for 
producing electrical currents. 

The substance of M. Dutrochet’s theory may thus be summed up :—The 
sap of plants does not circulate; it ascends from the root in the wood or 
comparatively woody parts of stems and branches, and, being elaborated 
into nutritive juice, descends by the vessels of the bark. The sap in ascend- 
ing, and the juice in descending, are diffused laterally by horizontal vessels, 
which meet in common in the space between the bark and the wood. The 
sap and proper juice are poured out in this space, and these unite and form 
increments both of bark and wood. All the motions of the sap and juice 
in plants take place in consequence of the operations of two distinct cur- 
rents of electricity: the one negative, by which the vessels have the power 
of absorption, which M. Dutrochet calls endosmose, and by which the ves- 
sels become turgid; and the other positive, by which the vessels exude or 
secrete, which power M. Dutrochet calls exosmose. 

It is gratifying to find that none of the results of M. Dutrochet’s experi- 
ments are materially at variance with the opimions of Mr. Knight : in some 
minor points their hypotheses differ; but all the important doctrines of 
Mr. Knight are confirmed, and established by M. Dutrochet on a basis 
which will not be easily moved. 


Du Petit-Thouars, Le Chevalier Aubert-Aubert, For. Mem. L. 8. and H.5., 
Membre de |’Académie royale des Sciences, &c. &c : Notice Historique 
sur la Pépiniére du Roi au Roule. Paris. Pamph. 8vo. 2 /vs. 


From the time of Louis XIII., the kings of France have had nursery 
gardens in the neighbourhood of Paris, outside the suburbs St. Honoré, 
now the suburb du Roule. Claude Mollet, who was principal gardener 
there under Henry IV. Louis XLII. and XIV., says that, in 1620, he grafted 
more than 20,000 trees in these nurseries. ‘That which is the subject of 
the present notice was, in 1772, destined by Louis XV. for the propagation 
of exotic trees ; was put under the care of the Abbé Nolin, and ultimately 
under M. Du Petit-Thouars. It is now proposed to turn this nursery into 
a market-place, and the main object of the notice is to oppose this change, 
which will fall the more heavily on M. Du Petit-Thouars, as he receives 
3600 francs a year as its director. 


Palaiseau, J. L. G. B., Painter: Description d’un Jardin imaginaire, et 
quelques Considérations sur les Avantages que peut offrir le Séjour de la 
Campagne ; accompagnées de plusieurs Plans et E’lévations applicables 4 
VExécution des différentes Parties de ce Projet, et de quelques Ob- 
servations sur l’Utilité que l’Architecte pourrait retirer d'une Connais- 
sance parfaite de la Perspective. Paris. 8vo, 4 pl. 3 fr. 


Worth looking at by architects and landscape-gardeners. 


Poinsot : L’?Ami des Jardiniers, ou Instruction Méthodique 4 la portée des 
Amateurs et des Jardiniers de Profession, sur tout ce que concerne les 
Jardins Fruitiers et Potagers, Parcs, Jardins Anglais, Parterres, Orange- 
ries, et Serres chaudes. Avec 20 Gravures en Taille-douce. Paris. 1804. 
2 vols. 8vo. 


Du Bois, M. Louis, Member of several Academies,,and one of the Authors 
of the Cours complet d@ Agriculture, &c.: Pratique simplifiée du Jardin- 
age, a |’Usage des Personnes qui cultivent ellesméme un petit Domaine, 
contenant un Potager, une Pépiniére, un Verger, des Espaliers, des 
Serres, des Orangeries, et un Parterre. Paris. 1821. 12mo. 


Vot. III. —No. 9. G 


82 Catalogue of Works 


Descharmes, M. Pajot: Sur la Fabrication du Muriate de Chaux consideré 
comme Engrais. Paris. Pamph. svo. 

The muriate of lime is an active stimulant to vegetation, and might be 
usefully applied as a manure. It is produced in the manufactures of soda 
and of chloric acid, and at present generally thrown away as useless. The 
hint is worth the attention of Mr. Tomalin (Vol. II. p.126.) and others. “Le 
muriate de chaux peut-étre consideré comme un stimulant de la végétation, 
fort utiles dans certaines circonstances, mais non comme engrais propre- 
ment dit, capable de fourner & la plante des substances nutritives.” (C. 
Bailly, in Bul. Un. Fev. 1827, p. 73.) 

Sageret, M., Member of the Royal and Central Society: Deuxiéme Mé- 
moire sur les Cucurbitacées, principalement sur le Melon, contenant la 
Culture en pleine terre de celui-ci, &c., et les Perfectionnemens dont elle 
serait susceptible. Paris. Pamph. 8vo. 

The author seems to have made numerous experiments, the results of 
which, and his reasoning thereon, form the subject of this pamphlet, which 
well deserves the attention of those who are curious in the culture of Cu- 
curbitaceze. A list is given of fifty sorts of melons, most of which may be 
purchased from M. Vilmorin, Seedsman, Paris. 


Franck, W.: Traité sur les Vins de Médoc et les autres Vins rouges de Dé- 
partement de la Gironde. Bordeaux. 8yvo, 5 pl. 10 fr. 

Descourtilz : Flore Pittoresque et Médicale des Antilles. Livraisons lxviii— 
Ixxiti, Paris. 8vo, col. fig. 6s. each 

Lestiboudois : Botanographie Belgique, ou Flore du Nord de la France et 
de la Belgique proprement dite. Paris. svo, 2 vols. 1/. 1s. 

Redouté, P. J., Botanical Flower-Painter, Paris; Choix des plus, belles 
Fleurs prises dans differentes Familles du Régne Végétal. Livraisons i. 
et ii. Paris. 4to, col. fig. 18s.; in fol. 1/. 16s. 

Noisette, L.C., Nurseryman, Paris: Manuel complet du Jardinier, Maraicher, 
Pépiniériste, Botaniste, Fleuriste, et Paysagiste. Paris. 8vo, 4 tom. 5/. 

Decandolle, M. A. P., F.R.S. F.M.L.S. H.S., &c. 


1. Mémoires sur la Famille des Légumineuses. 8 livraisons. Paris. 4to» 
figs. 5/. 5s. 

2. Organnographie Végétale, ou Description raisonnée des Organes des 
Plantes, &c. Paris. 2 vols. 8vo. 10. 7s. 

Duhamel de Monceau: Traité des Arbres Fruitiers. Nouvelle édition, aug- 
mentée par Poiteau et Turpin. Livraisons xxvi—xl. Paris. Fol. col. 
figs. 21. Zs. 

Saint-Hilaire, Auguste de, Jussieu, et Cambessédes: Plantes Usuelles des 
Brésiliens. Livraisons ix, x, xi. Paris. 4to, figs. 7s. 6d. 

Annales de la Societé Linnéene de Paris. Tom. iii, iv, v. Paris. 8vo. 12. 10s. 

Neufchateau, Poiteau, Petit-Thouars, §c.: Dictionnaire d’Agriculture Pra- 
tique. Paris. 2 vols. 8vo. 1/. 11s, 6d. 

Thouin, Prof. And.: Cours de Culture et de Naturalisation des Végétaux. 
Paris. 8vo, 5 vols. 2/. 19s. 6d. 


GERMANY. 


Gmelin, D.: Flora Badensis, Alsatica, et Cis et Trans-Rhenana. Carlsruhe. 
8vo, 4 vols. with asupp. and index. 
Collectio Plantarum officinalium, cum Icon. color Fasc.i—xv. Dusseldorf. 
Fol 
: ° 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 83 


Martius, Dr. &c.: Nova Genera et Species Plantarum quas in Itinere per 
Brasiliam, 1817—1820. coll. et desc. Vol. ii. fasc. 5. with 40 pls. Mo- 
nachi. 4to. 8/. 8s. 

Brown, R. ¥.R.S. &c.: Prodromus Flora Nove Hollandiz et Insulae Van- 
Diemen, exhibens characteres Plantarum. Edit. 5tia, ab ipso auctore 
emendata. Cur. D. Nees von Esenbeck. 8vo. 12s. 

Reichenbach, H. L. : Iconographia Botanica Exotica, sive Hortus Botanicus, 
imagines Plantar. extra Kuropam invent. coll. cum Commentario suc- 
cincto ed. 1ma Centuria, tab. Lips. 4to. Cum tab. zn. nigr. 1/. 11s. 6d. ; 
cum tab, zn. pict. 5/. 5s. 

Pohl, J. E.: Plantarum Brasilize [cones et Descriptiones hactenus ine- 
ditze. Vindob. Fol. fasciculus, cum tab. zn. pict. 6/. 6s. 

Ekart: Gramina et Plante sub Aqua plane natantes, que in Duc. Co- 
burg. sponte proven. Coburgi. Fasc. i, ii, 11. fol. 1/. 10s. 

Host, N. T.: Flora Austriaca. Vindob. 8vo, vol.i. 16s. 

Presl, C. B.:; Flora Sicula exhibens Plantas vasculosas in Sicilia, &c. rep. 
Pragee. 8vo. tom.i. 10s. 

Heduig, D.: Species Muscorum frondosorum descriptee et Tabulis Aneis 
color. illust. op. posth. Lips. Large 4to. 1/. 11s. 6d.; vellum paper, 
DUS. 

Steudel et Hochstetter: Knumeratio Plantarum Germanize Helvetieeque 
indigen. Stuttgardiz. 8vo. 85. 


Schlechtendal, D. F. L. de: 
1. Adumbrationes Plantarum. Berolini. Fasc. 4tus, 4to. 
2. Linnza Journal fiir die Botanik. 1826. 4hefte. 1J. 
3. fiir 1827. Ilr. Bd. Ir. Stuck. 5s. 


Nees von Esenbeck, C. G.: Bryologia Germanica. Bonne. 


Sternberg, Comte: Hssai d’un Exposé Géognostico-Botanique de la Flore 
du Monde Primitif. Ratisbonne. Cah. 4e in fol. 25 pls. 2/. 10s. 

Scherer: Lichenes Helvetici exsiccati. Bernze. 4to, fasc. i—vi. 

Von Frautzschen, a military Captain: Die Biirgerliche Baukunst fiir an- 
gehende Forstmezenner und Landwirthe. Civil Architecture for those 
who study Forest Culture and Husbandry. Dresden. 8vo, pp. 144. 16 gr. 

Anon.: Die Kunst, moussirenden Champagnerwein am Rhein zu bereiten. 
The Art of preparing Champagne mousseux on the Rhine, &c. Bonn. 
12mo. 24 kr. 

Schmidt, Carl. Friedr.: Vollsteendiger und griindlicher Garten unterricht. 
Rational and detailed Instructions on Gardening. Leipzig. pp. 594. 
9th edit. 1 rthir. 

De Reider, J. E.: Das Ganze der Blumenzucht. The whole Culture of 
Flowers, &c. Neurenberg. 8vo. 8 gr. 


Verhandlungen des Vereins, §c., Transactions of the Society for the advance- 
ment of Gardening in the Royal Prussian States. 7th Part, 4to, 18 pls. 
Berlin. 1827. 


This Part completes the third volume of what may certainly be con- 
sidered as the most original work on gardening which has appeared on the 
Continent for many years. ‘The plates to this part are chiefly figures of 
different species of Melocactus, illustrative of a monograph, by H. F. Link 
and F. Otto, of the 117 species of Cacti in the botanic garden of Berlin. 
We observe that the arrangement and nomenclature of Mr. Haworth is: 

G 2 - 


84 Catalogue of Works 


adopted, a botanist who is justly considered as the sovereign of the king- 
dom of succulent plants. In succeeding numbers we hope to get rapidly 
through these Transactions. 


Lullin, C. M. M.: Notes et Observations pour les Régens et le Moniteurs 
des E’coles d’Enseignement mutuel des Communes rurales du Canton de 
Geneve, sur / Abrégéde ’ Agriculture & Yusage des mémes E’coles. Geneva. 
Pamph. svo. 


Bernardi and Volker, Authors and Publishers at Weimar: Neues Algemeines 
Garten-Magazin, &c. New General Garden Magazine. Vol. ii. Part ii. 
Weimar. 4to, 5 pls. 


Iraty. 


Lose, Fred., Painter: Promenade dans le Pare et les Jardins de Monza. 
Milan. 12mo, pp. 16, 10 pl. 


The plates consist of a plan of the park, two views of the palace, six of 
the gardens and grounds, and one of the church of Monza, an edifice com- 
posed in a mixed style of Gothic and Grecian, but highly decorated and 
picturesque. The engravings are by the painter’s wife, and very well 
executed ; an example of domestic cooperation and talent worthy of notice 
and of imitation. The description of the park, though very short, is less 
suitable to our purpose than that; for which, as well as for the Pro- 
menade, we have to thank Mr. Clare. (See Miscel. Intel., Vol. II. p. 459.) 


Visiant : Stirpium Dalmaticarum Specimen. Patavil. 4to, cum 8 tab. zen. 


Bajoni, C.: Metodo per far migliorare e conservare il Vino. Method of 
ameliorating and preserving Wine. Bergamo. 8vo, pp. 323. 


The grapes ought not to be cut till they are perfectly ripe, and the 
operation should be performed in a hot day, after the sun has exhaled from 
the berries every particle of exterior moisture. Cut off the bunches with 
scissors, and remove the damaged berries. Directions are given for treading 
the grapes in tubs, and the signs indicated by which it may be known when 
fermentation is completed. The wine is then directed to be put in casks 
by means of pipes, so as to prevent it from coming in contact with the air; 
and, in racking from one cask to another, the same pipes are to be used for 
the same reason. Before bottling, see that the bottles are perfectly clean ; 
and, to prevent every possible chance of their contaminating the liquor, 
fumigate them with sulphur. 


Ho.uanD AND THE NETHERLANDS. 


Journal @ Agriculture @ E’conomie Rurale et des Manufactures du Royaume 
des Pays- Bas, §c. Brussels. 8vo., in Monthly Numbers. 


This work, which has appeared for twelve years, and has extended to 
five volumes, is chiefly occupied with translations or extracts from contem- 
porary publications. The Number for April last contains an original article 
on the culture of tobacco, by Bailley Saint-Martin, inspector of tobacco 
manufactures in France, and now resident at Uccle, in the neighbourhood 
of Brussels; which, since the passing of the late law for the culture of 
tobacco in this country, may be of some interest to our readers. 

The tobacco is an annual plant, which requires a good deal of care. The 
sort considered best worth cultivating in France and Flanders is the tongue- 
leaved, or Virginian, Nicotiana Tabacum. 

The soil which best suits the tobacco is one of a marly, hot, and rather 
moist nature. ‘The sweepings of streets, and the ashes of alkaline plants, 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 85 


such as artichokes, kidneybeans, fern, beech or buck wheat, &c. are con- 
sidered favourable manures. 

The seed of the tobacco should be sown on a slight hot-bed in the month 
of March. One ounce of seed will furnish plants for a plantation of an 
acre and a half in extent. ‘The seed should not exceed two years old, and 
should be sown sufficiently thin to cover the surface of a bed twenty-four 
feet long and four feet broad. It may be steeped before sowing, and kept 
moist in a warm place till it begins to swell, in order to hasten its germi- 
nation. M. B. Saint-Martin sows from a tin dredging-box, but that we 
consider to be unnecessary : machinery should never be resorted to merely 
to supersede a little care. Formerly, it is said, the tobacco beds were 
covered with straw instead of glass frames; but the plants were found to 
be too much etiolated, and therefore glass sashes and a frame, like that used 
for growing cucumbers, are recommended as decidedly preferable. Plenty 
of air is given at all times, and in fine weather the sashes are removed 
during the day. About the beginning of May, and sometimes a fortnight 
earlier, the plants will have attained a sufficient size for transplanting ; and 
a week before this operation commences, the bed should be left night and 
day without the frame and sashes. The tobacco is nearly as susceptible of 
injury from frost as the potato. 

The soil for the plantation should be deeply ploughed, well pulverised, 
and sufficiently manured. The plants may be placed in rows two feet apart, 
and two feet distant in the row: they should be watered, and, if con- 
venient, a little litter laid round the root of each plant, to retain the 
moisture in the soil. “ It must never be forgotten that this plant loves the 
sun and humidity :” hence, besides keeping the ground clear of weeds, the 
plants are watered frequently during the months of June, July, and August. 

After the plants have produced five or six leaves on the stem, they must 
be prevented from running to flower, by pinching out the heart of the main 
shoot, and rubbing off all the side shoots which are produced from it. With- 
out this precaution, the principal part of the nourishment drawn up by the 
plant would go towards the formation of flowers and seeds, and the leaves 
would become thin and wither off. By shortening the main shoot, the whole 
of the nourishment is directed to the leaves, which thereby become strong 
and succulent, without any tendency to decay. Sometimes the plants are 
earthed up a little, but that operation is by no means essential. 

It is almost unnecessary to observe that, when seed is required, two or 
three vigorous plants are allowed to run to flower. When the seed is ripe, 
the plants are taken up, hung up in a dry airy situation, and afterwards the 
seed capsules taken off and preserved till wanted in paper. It is found 
that the seeds preserve much better when kept in the capsules than by any 
other means. 

M. Saint-Martin gives no direction for gathering the leaves ; but the fol- 
lowing mode is described in the Cours d’ Agriculture Complet, as practised 
in Alsatia, in France, and in Virginia. The leaves are known to be fit for 
cutting when they have attained their full size, a dark green colour, and a 
brittle succulent texture. The lowest leaves acquire these properties first, 
and, in gardens or small plantations, are therefore first gathered, by being 
cut off with a knife close to the stem. Where tobacco is cultivated ex- 
tensively, however, instead of gathering the leaves separately, the plants are 
cut over by the surface of the ground, and suspended under an open shed 
upon lines, so far apart that the leaves may not touch each other. In this 
state they remain till the leaves are perfectly dry, when they are stripped 
from the stalks, and tied in small bundles, a leaf serving for the tie. These 
bundles are laid in heaps in a shed, in order to bring on a similar degree of 
fermentation to what takes place in new hay. That this fermentation may 

G 3 


‘86 Catalogue of Works 


equally pervade every part, the heaps are covered with a cloth, sometimes 
blankets, mats, or a layer of straw. These heaps are opened and spread 
abroad to the air from time to time, in order to prevent their overheating ; 
and when this process has been carried on till no more heat is perceived in 
the heaps, the tobacco is fit for the manufacturer. At this stage, therefore, 
in America, it is packed in casks for exportation. 

The farmer that understands how to make good meadow-hay, will be at 
no loss how to make good tobacco. With regard to growing the plant, it 
requires very little more care than growing a crop of cabbages : the extra 
care is in raising the seedlings, pinching out the hearts, and off the side 
shoots, and gathering any caterpillars that may appear on the leaves. Any 
British farmer who contemplates a trial of the tobacco culture, and does not 
feel himself fully master of the subject, will find his difficulties easiest solved 
by applying to the nearest intelligent gardener; let him be a reading gar- 
dener ; but whoever understands the general principles of culture, —that is, 
whatever farmer is capable of reasoning on what passes under his notice 
in the culture of turnips and cabbages, and the making of hay, —is per- 
fectly competent to cultivate tobacco. 

Those who are curious to know what has already been done in this way 
in Britain, may turn to our Encyclopedia of Agriculture, Art. Tobacco, in 
the Index, when they will find references to its culture in Hindostan, at the 
Cape of Good Hope, in Yorkshire, and in Roxburghshire. They will 
also find there some account of the manufacture of tobacco into the differ- 
ent forms in which it is used for chewing and smoking, and inte the different 
kinds of snuff. 


SWEDEN. 


Wahlenberg: Flora Suecica enumerans Plantas Sueciz indig. post Linneum. 
Upsaliz. 8vo, pars 2da. 17s. 


NortH AMERICA. 


Mitchill, Samuel L., M.D. Member of many Societies in America and Eu- 
rope: Address pronounced before the New York Horticultural Society, 
in the Literary and Philosophical Hall of the Institution, on their Annual 
Celebration, Aug. 29. 1826. New York. Pamph. 8vo, pp. 52. 


An eloquent discourse, embracing the most extensive views. Dr. Mit- 
chill, in order to show how much nature is improved or rendered subser- 
vient to man by art, takes a brief survey of the globe, and especially of the 
western hemisphere, before it was subdued by cultivation. The forest, 
the bogs, the wild beasts, and the scattered tribes of savages, gradually give 
way to man, operating by fire and the tools and instruments of cultivation, 
and building houses, forming roads, and planting maize, beans, and tobacco. 
After a series of years, the productions of different and distant soils are 
reared where they never originally grew. 

“ The tillage of the earth, in extensive farms and plantations, has been 
denominated agriculture ; while the more careful management of it, in nar- 
row limits and small tracts, is termed gardening, or, in more modern lan- 
guage, horticulture. It is here that the lord of the soil manifests his 
greatest ability. Your weekly and elegant exhibitions show the degree to 
which the art has already advanced. 

“ Tn visiting the grounds of several members belonging to this society, 
the eye is attracted by alluring and excellent objects. It beholds culture 
by the best of tools and implements, the most effectual methods adopted to 
eradicate weeds, the greatest care taken to introduce proper manures, and 
excellent economy in the performance of labour. It is charming to examine 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 87 


the orange and the camellia, as well as the rare plants of New Holland and 
the Cape of Good Hope, thriving under their care.” 

Dr. Mitchill recommends to the Society the extension of their intercourse 
with similar societies throughout the world, and mentions that seeds have 
been received by the New York Society from “ public gardens in Batavia and 
Cuba, as well as from those of Paris and Kew” (an incidental confirmation 
of our Correspondent’s remark, Vol. II. p. 513., on the kind of liberality which 
prevails in the last-named garden). ‘Tull a proper house and a garden are 
procured, the members are recommended to make experiments on their own 
grounds; and, if they cannot publish a volume of transactions from time to 
time, they are advised, instead of keeping “ the history of their doings, like 
seed in a bag, within the scribe’s desk, or leaving them to perish, like a plant 
by the way-side, with the fugitive columns of a newspaper, to fix them 
permanently in the pages of one of the respectable periodicals which our 
age has produced.” 

This is in the true spirit of patriotism ; as soon as knowledge is obtained 
let it be universally diffused, and let every country in the world, and every 
human being in every country, have an opportunity of improvement. When 
this Society publish their transactions, we hope they will publish them in a 
form, and at an expense, which will come within the reach of practical 
men. Nothing, in our opinion, can be in worse taste than to publish agricul- 
tural and gardening works at a price which cannot be reached by farmers 
and gardeners. The late Communications of the Board of Agriculture 
of London, and the present Transactions of the Horticultural Society 
of London,-are in this respect highly objectionable. The plain language 
of such practice is, you shall not benefit by us unless you belong to us; which 
is rising no higher in the scale of patriotism than the mark of a private in- 
dividual who publishes to live. 

A library is commenced by the New York Horticultural Society. “Books,” 
Dr. Mitchill observes, “being the repositories of knowledge, are indispensable 
to the enquiring man. Their excessive multiplication, however, in modern 
times, increases largely both the labour and expense of study. Instead of at- 
tempting, therefore, to procure every publication bearing a horticultural, or 
a kindred title, efforts should be directed, as particularly as circumstances 
permit, to procure a moderate number of standard and classical volumes ; 
and, when to those are added a good supply of the journals, magazines, and 
tracts upon the different branches of the subject, you will have made com- 
fortable provision. Topographical maps of gardens, drawings of buildings, 
of the modes of affording heat and light, and of the mechanism for water- 
ing, are worthy of being collected. So are delineations of vegetables, re- 
markable for their rarity, beauty, or usefulness ; and figures of the insects 
that are ever marring the gardener’s labour: also a dry garden or Hortus 
Siccus.” 

After recommending more attention to the native timber and fruit trees, 
Dr Mitchill continues :— 

“ It may be expected I should speak to you of meteorological observ- 
ations. I have, however, not much to say in favour of their utility to 
practical men like yourselves. The thermometer indicates the degree of 
heat, indeed, in the spot where it is placed, and therefore has its use in the 
green-house and the hot-house. It may be employed, too, to determine 
the temperature of waters from the well or the cistern. ‘The barometer, 
which indicates the greater or less weight of the atmosphere, seems to be 
of very limited use in this country as a weather-glass. Neither of these 
instruments affords any means of predicting the heat or the cold, the winds 
or the storms, of the coming seasons; and the long columns of figures we 
find in some of the books under that title, are of as little real value as 
almost any thing we find in print. To note the rise and fall of the mer- 

G 4 


88 Works on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 


cury as minutely as some persons have done, seems to be a waste of time 
or a misapplication of attention. Though the hygrometer may give 
signs of the moisture in the air, and the ombrometer determine by approx- 
imation the quantity of rain that falls, yet they afford not the smallest relief 
when gardens suffer by too much humidity, or are scorched by drought. The 
electrometer is of as little practical use. Lightning breaks forth, and ceases 
again, according to the laws beyond mortal control. It has, nevertheless, 
been remarked that some trees are better conductors of this splitting and 
igniting element than others. The locust (Robinia pseud-acacia) is very 
frequently rent to shivers by it; while it is affirmed, on credible evidence, 
that the beech is never the subject of its violence. In some districts of our 
country, it is customary, I am told, for persons who are abroad during a 
thunder storm, to place themselves under the protection of this tree. If 
this, upon further enquiry, be found to be the fact, it might be a matter of 
precaution against its visitations to form hedges, coppices, and rows of this 
non-conducting fagus. 

« T was charmed, a few days ago, with the examination of the young 
ladies, at one of our respectable schools, on botany. They answered the 
questions put by their instructress without hesitation, as they seemed to 
have learned the lessons with pleasure. There is, perhaps, not a more 
agreeable feature in our social system, than the exertion to inform the 
female mind. A bouquet in the possession of a belle attracted the notice 
of an inquisitive swain. She answered his queries by telling the ignorant 
fashionable the common terms of the flowers, accompanied with the generic 
and specific names, according to the classification of Linnzeus. The beau 
was so humiliated and confounded, that he betook himself to the science, 
the better to qualify him for her company.” 

After recommending attention to the destruction of weeds, and the study 
of the diseases of plants, Dr. Mitchill thus concludes :— 

“ Our organization fits us for labour, and experience amply proves the 
health and recompense that result from due application. Employment, 
indeed, is essential to happiness, Persevering and diversified industry 
begets skill; and by this can rocks be converted to fences, water be 
changed to land, the barren rendered fertile, wastes wear the aspect of 
elegance and plenty, and the choice productions of nature be augmented 
and meliorated ; and, if it be demanded where improvements in horticul- 
ture shall end, the answer is, that they surpass our present knowledge, and 
defy the existing rules of calculation !” 

An Appendix contains some notes, of which the following, by Dr. Pascalis 
President of the Linnean Society of Paris, appears to us worth quoting :— 

“The process of abstracting electricity from the clouds, by planting 
poles covered with twisted straw, as mentioned last year, and thereby 
guarding cultivated fields against the destructive effects of hail storms, has 
been fully and successfully exemplified in extensive districts of Germany 
and Italy, in or about the lower Alps and Apennines ; and it is now still 
further ascertained, that not only metallic, but ligneous or vegetable points, 
can divert torrents of electricity in different currents; also, that this 
element is as necessary to plants as pure air or other gases, because, by 
their sharp-pointed leaves and thorns, they abstract it from the atmo- 
sphere. This subject, which so strikingly evinces the wisdom of the Creator, 
was experimentally demonstrated by a Linnzan member, who has sub- 
jected electricity to positive and negative evolutions, by means of thorny 
shrubs, and as easily as Franklin drew it from the clouds with a child’s 
plaything — a flying kite, armed with a metallic point !” 


Literary Notices. 89 


Art. V. Literary Notices. 


NATURAL History of the Auricula. — Captain Thos. Brown,F.R.S.E. &c., 
is preparing for publication a work on the auricula, which is to appear in 
4to numbers every two months, containing four plates, coloured after 
nature. This work will contain about sixty of the most beautiful varieties 
of that esteemed flower, with a complete account of its natural history, 
mode of cultivation, admixture of soils, &c., and a list of the known varie- 
ties, by whom they were raised, together with a catalogue of the best 
collections in Great Britain. (Brew. Ed. Jour. of Science, July, 1827.) 

The works of our celebrated botanist, Robert Brown, have recently been 
translated into German, and published at Smalcalden, in 2 vols. 8vo. (Foreign 
Quar. Rev., July, 1827.) 

A View of the Vegetable Kingdom of Java, by the celebrated Dutch na- 
turalist, Dr. Blume, has recently been published at Batavia, in 15 parts. 
The same botanist intends publishing an extensive work on the plants of the 
Dutch Kast India possessions. (Z6id.) 

A Pomological Magazine is announced by Messrs. Ridgway, to appear 
on the first of October next, in monthly 8vo numbers, with four coloured 
plates, at 4s. 6d. each. The publishers state “ that they have secured the 
assistance of two gentlemen, whose intimate connection with the Horticul- 
tural Society of London gives them ready access to the most authentic 
sources of information upon all points connected with Pomology.” One 
of these two gentlemen must, of course, be Mr. Sabine; so that this work 
may be considered as a substitute for the quarto one of which a prospectus 
was issued two years ago (Gard. Mag., vol. i. p.88.), at the same time that 
a quarto work on plants was also announced. We have already expressed 
our hope that the latter work would be given up (Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p.543.), 
and are now glad to find that the work on fruits will be published in such 

_a way, as to render it accessible to those readers to whom it will be most 
useful — we mean the nurserymen. If the Pomological Magazine be got up 
with that care which the present state of pomological science admits, it will 
be of real value; but, if it merely contain coloured figures of the fruits, 
without buds, leaves, blossoms, shoots, branches, and, in many cases, the 
general contour exhibiting the character of a full-grown tree of each 
variety, its usefulness will be materially diminished. It is to be hoped that 
only the very best sorts of each fruit will be commenced with, for the imme- 
diate guidance of purchasers from the nurseries. (See p. 52.) 

The next periodical which we should like to see originated, would be a 
Magazine of Natural History ; not an expensive work of coloured plates, 
but a vehicle of useful and curious information, chiefly on the plants, ani- 
mals, and minerals of the country. When once all science is explored to 
a certain extent, the greater part of the literature of the world will be 
comprised in newspapers and periodicals. All that is worth knowing will be 
acquired at school before the age of twenty-one; and whatever it is thought 
worth while to add to the stock of knowledge will be obtained, as it arises, 
from the particular periodicals that bear upon the leading pursuits of the 
individual. If we had room, it would be easy to show that the general 
tendency of things is to this result. After a certain stage in the progress of 
knowledge, it will become easier for a youth to know every thing, than it is 
now for him to know a good deal. 

Many branches of knowledge at present are rendered obscure by a mul- 
tiplicity of words, and by mystical doctrines, which the growing taste for 
facts will one day sweep entirely away. When very little is known of any 
subject, it is natural to say a great deal about it, in order to conceal our 
ignorance. 


90 


PART III. 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. I. Foreign Notices. 


FRANCE. 


THE Botanic Garden of Perpignan is of little consequence, but there 
are, nevertheless, several scarce plants in it, habituated to the open air. 
Solanum bonariénse and Schinos Mélle were in the utmost luxuriance ; 
there was also a fine tree of Stillingia sebifera. The lecturer here has 
200 fr. (about 18. sterling) per annum, with 200 more to pay the incidental 
expenses of the establishment, as utensils, flower-pots, new plants, &c. ‘The 
head gardener is better off: he has 400 fr. for the garden, and 700 for 
taking care of the pépiniére, or nursery, with which, however, he has to pay 
his assistants. (Arnott, in Jam. Jour., June, 1827.) 

Syntherisma. — A grass of this name, a native of Carolina, and described 
by Walter in his Flora of that country, is recommended by M. Bose, in 
the Annales de ? Agriculture Francaise (tom. xxxvi. p. 212.), as very suitable 
for culture in the poor soils of the South of France. It is said to resemble 
the Panicum sanguinale, to grow rapidly, very high, spreading, bushy, and 
rooting at the joints like the Fiorm. It may be cut for hay or soiling three 
times a year. It has been introduced in the neighbourhood of Bourdeaux, 
from whence, or from M. Vilmorin of Paris, seeds may be obtained. (Bul. 
Un., April, 1827.) 

Method of destroying Moles in Meadows or Gardens. — Collect earth- 
worms, kill them, and mix them up with the powder of nux vomica. 
After the mixture has remained in a heap twenty-four hours, take the 
worms, and place one or two here and there in the routes and holes of the 
moles. ‘The desired effect is said to be a certain result. (Bul. Un.) 

Whip-grafting, in France, has the more elegant appellation of (grafting 
en bec de flute, mouth-piece of the flute,) flute-grafting. 

Metamorphosis of Male and Female Plants. — Some curious experiments 
have been made on this subject by Drs. Autenrieth and Maux, of Tubingen. 
The difference between a male and female plant may be distinguished even 
in the seed, for example, in that of the common hemp; the round and 
elliptical seeds of which produce in general female plants ; the oblong seeds, 
on the contrary, which have a thin edge projecting from the side of the 
radicle, produce male plants. The male seeds are also heavier, and they 
have the radicle longer than the female seeds. The radicle of the male 
plant developes itself sooner, as the males also come sooner into flower, 
and flower more abundantly, than the females. The stalks and the leaves of 
the male plants are commonly longer and thinner, and their flowers more 
exposed, than those of the females. 

Notwithstanding these very essential differences, experience has proved 
that the male seeds, or those which are the more heavy, produce female 
plants, and the female seeds form male plants, if external circumstances are 


Foreign Notices. — France. 91 


changed ; so that each seed appears to contain a germ for the developement 
of either sex. The developement of male plants is favoured by a soil dry 
and sandy, with little manure, by covering the seed lightly, and by the more 
free influence of the light of the sun on the plants developed ; the form- 
ation of females, on the contrary, is favoured by a fresh soil well manured, 
by a thicker covering on the seed, and by the more feeble influence of the 
light. This experiment has been made in sowing hemp, spinach, and an- 
nual mercury, and in observing the situation of dicecious plants in a wild 
state. The weather and the season of the year also naturally concur in 
influencing materially this different developement. Drs. Autenrieth and 
Maux raised hermaphrodite plants of hemp, by sowing heavy or male seeds 
in a dry soil, light, and little manured, and only exposing the plants to a 
moderate degree of light and humidity. These hermaphrodites, in size and 
appearance, hold a middle place between male and female plants. Female 
plants change often into hermaphrodites, by transplanting them into a dry 
soil more exposed to the light; wounds, on the contrary, and repeated 
pruning, easily change a male plant into a hermaphrodite one; for in- 
stance in hemp, the nettle, spinach, and in L¥chnis dioica. These herma- 
phrodite flowers often produce good seeds. In general, male plants change 
more easily into females, than females into males. Female plants support 
wounds and cutting much better than males. In moncecious plants, the 
separation of the sexes, and their stronger or weaker developement, depend 
very much on circumstances. A melon, ina pot, for example, little wa- 
tered, much exposed to the sun, and several times pruned, will not form 
female flowers, but several hermaphrodite and some male ones; another 
melon in a larger pot, watered a great deal and never pruned, will carry 
some perfect female flowers. Even in plants commonly hermaphrodite, 
exterior accidents, especially the season, greatly influence the preeminent 
developement of the one or the other sex. The Malvacez and Caryophyl- 
leze afford numerous examples. 

With respect to the influence of the seasons on the developement of the 
different sexes in plants, Drs. Autenrieth and Maux observe that 

1. The middle of winter is favourable to the pre-eminence of the feminine 
sex in dicecious plants ; 

2. The commencement of spring favours the formation of hermaphro- 
dites, with the more early developement of the male sex ; 

5. The beginning of summer favours the perfect formation of herma- 
phrodites ; 

4, The middle of summer is favourable to the predominance of the male 
sex in dicecious plants ; 

5. The end of winter still favours the perfect formation of hermaphro- 
dites ; 

6. The end of autumn favours the formation of hermaphrodites, with a 
more early developement of the feminine sex. (Bud. Un., 1826.) 

The liquorice plant (Glycyrrhiza glabra) is cultivated inBourguel in France, 
in a manner somewhat analogous to Mr. Judd’s method of growing horse- 
radish. (Hincyc. of Gard.,§ 4114.) Trenches as deep as the soil will per- 
mit, and about two feet wide, are opened three feet from each other; the 
bottom of the trench is dunged and dug,and two rows of cuttings of the roots 
are planted as close as possible to its sides; these are covered a few inches, 
by sliding down a little earth from the ridglet; as the plants grow, more 
earth is slid down, till, at the end of the first summer, the whole field is 
level. In the'’second summer, every pair of rows are earthed up, from the 
wide interval between; during the third summer, nothing is done; but, in 
the October or November following, the crop is dug up, and, while the 
ground is being trenched for that purpose, it is sometimes planted as before 
for a repetition of the crop. In other cases, a crop of barley, and two suc- 


92 Foreign Notices. — Germany. 


ceeding crops of clover, are taken; after which, the ground, being again 
trenched, is found to contain .a number of liquorice roots; the plant, as it 
has been elsewhere noticed, being difficult to eradicate when the soil and 
climate are suitable. (German Gart. Mag. Old Series, 1824.) 

Anise (Pimpinélla Anisum) is much cultivated in the neighbourhood of 
Thoulouse. It is sown in spring, when all danger from frost is over, on light 
soil, hoed and wed once or twice, gathered in August, and immediately 
threshed. The seeds, it is well known, are crushed like those of the poppy, 
rape, &c. for oil, and distilled for flavouring spirituous liquors. (Bul. Un.) 

Insalubrity of the neighbourhood of dunghills.— A writer in a French 
agricultural journal points out, with great force, the injury done to the 
atmosphere, as far as respects the breathing of animals, by the decay of 
animal and vegetable matter in dunghills, ditches, ponds, wells, and espe- 
cially in sewers, and the cess-pools of water-closets. Wherever health is an 
object, he recommends neutralising the mephitic exhalations which arise 
from these places, by daily strewing over them, from a dredgebox, powder 
of lime, of which a very small quantity is said to have the desired effect. 
Though there is nothing new in this, yet it affords important hints for those 
who are employed to arrange the detail of dwelling-houses, and out-of-door 
offices ; and also to those who live in confined situations. 

Colchicum.—In the British newspapers a case was lately related, in 
which the bulbs having been eaten by a family, boiled along with potatoes, 
proved poisonous; and a French veterinary journal relates the case of twelve 
cows, which had been fed with the leaves and seed-vessels, and soon after 
showed the most alarming symptoms. By the use of strong decoctions of 
linseed, they were recovered after two or three days. (Bul. Un.) 

The cantharides fly (Lytta vesicatoria of Gmelin), a coleopterous insect 
used in the Materia Medica in the preparation of blisters, is generally 
collected from the olive-trees in Sicily and the south of Spain; but a 
French writer, observing that the insect is indigenous in France, proposes 
to introduce it to the rural economy of his country. (Bul. Un.) 


GERMANY. 


The Flanders Agriculture is duly appreciated by M. Von Schwerz, the 
Director of the Agricultural Institution at Hohenheim, in Wurtemberg, 
who is using every effort to introduce it to his country. LKvery year a 
certain number of his pupils are sent to travel, and work three years, on as 
many farms, in different places of Holland and the Netherlands. (Bul.Un.) 

Forest Management. — In the third volume of the Sylvan, a work pub- 
lished annually at Leipzic, on the subject of Forests and the Chase, a list is 
given of the books on this subject, published in Germany during the years 
1824 and 1825. They amount to 44 different works, and show, by the 
seemingly unimportant parts of the subject (for instance, Messkunst der 
Forstw.) which are treated in separate works, the great attention paid to 
the subject of forests im Germany, as well as the national talent of book- 
making. 

Mouldiness in the timber of a house, it is found, may be prevented by 
washing it over with a weak solution of muriate of mercury. The repair 
of a church at Potsdam, the timber of which, though quite new, was covered 
with mould, gave rise to the discovery. (Bul. Un.) 

Prussian Gardening Society, Berlin, March 11. 1827. — The following 
speech of Mr. Ludoff, counsellor of finances, has been communicated to us 
by Mr. Otto, the general secretary : — 

“ Having been deputed by the Society to inspect the school of gardeners, 
the management of which is committed to your care, | consider it my duty 
to give you a general sketch of its present state; especially as to the results 


Foreign Notices. — Germany. 93 


of the last examination of the pupils, those who have entered this year 
into the second class, as well as those who have gone through the second 
and third classes at Potsdam. 

“ This institution has been greatly improved since its first foundation, but 
it requires some more improvements before it can be said to have reached 
that degree of perfection of which it is capable. Still, however, it has been 
as useful as it could be, under all existing circumstances. From the annual 
increase of the pupils alone we may judge that the public takes an interest 
in this institution, there having been forty pupils received in it during the 
three years of its existence; and although some of these may have been im- 
pelled by poverty (four youths per annum being received gratuitously), yet 
we may infer, from the progress they have all made, that the majority have 
been attracted by a love for the art. The examination of the thirteen pupils 
received last year has been very satisfactory; and, from the knowledge, 
both theoretical and practical, which they have imbibed in the short period 
of one twelvemonth, we may form the most sanguine expectations respecting 
their future progress, especially of nine of the number. It appeared that 
they have greatly profited by the three lessons a week which they receive 
in the elements of botany, and the nomenclature of plants. Most of the 
pupils have made progress in drawing, which had already been extended to 
152 objects; their knowledge of geography, including the physical descrip- 
tion of the earth, which they receive from Professor Dittman, proved very 
respectable. Not less had they profited by Dr. Bergmann’s lectures on 
chemistry and mineralogy. They also produced themes on the subjects 
of their instruction, and the diaries, which each of them has to keep, were 
mostly executed in a satisfactory manner. Their answers to all the ques- 
tions as to the practical cultivation of plants, vegetables, and flowers, were 
good. ‘Their general conduct and industry had been such, that there had 
been no punishment inflicted in the establishment for the whole year. 
Under all these considerations, all the pupils were forwarded to the next 
class at Potsdam, with the exception of one who was returned on account 
of his youth and bodily weakness. 

“The examination of last month, with the sixteen pupils who had been 
transferred there during the two preceding years from the establishment 
at Shonberg was equally satisfactory. With the exception of one, the 
pupils had invariably displayed steadiness of conduct and industry in their 
studies. 

“ The seven pupils of the second class are practically trained by the reyal 
gardeners of the palace; besides which they are theoretically instructed in 
the cultivation of vegetables and trees, arithmetic, algebra, and drawing, in 
its different branches. 

“ Thenine pupils of the third class are instructed in the following branches ; 
— 1. A continuation of the instruction in the culture of fruit and other 
trees. 2. On hot-house gardening (treibgartncrei). 5. Geometry, with 
practical surveying and measuring. 4. Continuation of the instruction in 
botany. 5. Drawing of plans, laying out of kitchen-gardens, orchards, and 
pleasure-grounds, with a calculation of the expenses. 6. Themes on the 
most important subjects connected with gardening. In all these branches 
their progress had been satisfactory; and three of the number were dis- 
charged as competent gardeners, with permission to seek employment in the 
royal gardens for their farther improvement. The remaining six have been 
admitted in the fourth class, as garden-artists (garten kiunstlerer).” 

The taste for gardening is gaining ground in Prussia; the Island of Pea- 
cocks (Pfauen Insel) has been so much beautified, that it may be pronounced 
the most perfect garden scene of its kind in Prussia; the gardens of Sans 
Souci have also been enlarged and improved. Prince Charles has had a 
new park made near Potsdam, called Glinike, which is very beautiful ; and 


94 Foreign Notices. — Germany, 


connected with it, and the other works (anlagen) of the place, is a Russian 
colony of twelve houses, as a remembrance of the late war, laid out in the 
taste of their own country. The forcing of fruits (obst-treiberei), at Pots- 
dam, has been greatly enlarged, and various kinds of fruit brought forward 
at a very early period of the season. Our botanical garden has received 
various additions from Mexico and Peru, mostly new and undescribed, spe- 
cimens of which will be sent to England as soon as they can be conveyed. 
— Fred. Otto. Berlin, March 11. 

The plough has been used for excavating a water-course, for the use of 
the Salt-works of Friederichshall, in Wurtemberg, drawn by eight horses. 
It was found to do the work of nearly 1,500 men, and to produce a saving 
of 52,000 days’ work. The water-course extended several miles. 

Restoring vegetable Life. — This object may in many cases be effected by 
a powerful stimulant, and, for all practical purposes, nothing is better than 
hot water, as any person may prove to himself with a withered nosegay. 
Camphor, however, is a still more powerful stimulant; and, by combining 
this substance with water by the medium of alcohol, as much can he ef- 
fected in the way of restoration to life, as is practicable in the vegetable 
kingdom. In the Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society direc- 
tions are given for dissolving the camphor in alcohol to saturation, by 
adding it till it remains solid at the bottom of the vessel. The alcohol so 
prepared is to be added to water in the proportion of four drops to an ounce, 
and the two fluids beat together, till the flocculi of camphor disappear. 
Plants or parts of plants are then to be immersed in this liquid, but not 
longer than four hours ; for, if the vital principle cannot be restored in that 
time, they may be considered irrecoverable. 

A species of sea-weed has recently been brought into use in Germany for 
stuffing cushions and mattresses. “It is said to be capable of resisting humi- 
dity altogether, and that it will not harbour any infectious or contagious 
matter. No vermin will live in it. Some of the prisons and public esta- 
blishments have already adopted it. This material is found in the north of 
Germany, and has been first applied to this use by Mr. Warburg, a mer- 
chant of that country. If it answers the description, the discovery will be 
a most valuable one.” (Times, August 6.) 

The central Prefecture of the Rural Society of Wurtemberg (Central 
stelle der landwirthschaftlichen Vereins in Stuttgard) have lately consti- 
tuted what is called a Botanical Travelling Union, for the purpose of col- 
lecting specimens of plants in different parts of Europe, and distributing 
them equally among the different members of the Union. In Dr. Brewster’s 
Journal for July, Professor Hooker has given.some account of this society, 
strongly recommending it to the patrons of botany in Great Britam. The 
annual subscription is 15 florins (reckoning the louis d’or at 11 florins), 
and this sum may be forwarded, and the specimens received in return, 
through John Hunneman, Esq., 9. Queen Street, Soho. Professor Hooker 
has received upwards of two hundred rare species collected inthe Tyrol 
for one year’s subscription. Last year, one botanist was sent by this Society 
to Istria and the shores of the Adriatic, and another to Sardinia, and their 
collection will soon be divided. “In Germany, especially, the art of pre- 
serving plants is carried to a very high degree of perfection ; and the ad- 
vantage which the student derives from examining such specimens is 
incalculable, almost equal to that of doing so in the living state. Among 
many others, MM. Hoppe, Hornschuch, Funck, and Siebor have com- 
bined a great love of botany with a happy tact in all that concerns the 
preparation and drying of specimens; and, possessing also a deep and 
scientific knowledge of the plants themselves, these naturalists have given 
to the world collections which excel every figure, and are necessary to 
every student. ‘The trifling labour attending the manual operation is amply 


Italy, Portugal, Holland and the Netherlands. ° 95 


compensated by the beautiful scenery into which the travelling botanist is 
sure to be transported ; by the impressions (almost never to be effaced) which 
the very circumstance of his discovering and gathering such and such a 
plant in a state of nature are sure to make upon him; and by the gratifi- 
cation in prospect of distributing to persons of a kindred mind with himself 
those vegetables, from the acquisition of which he has already derived so 
much pleasure.” (Brewster's Ed. Jour. of Science, July, 1827, p. 24.) 


ITALY. 


/ 

At a recent meeting of the Academy of the Georgifili, at Florence, Dr. 
Guishi read an interesting mémoir on the propriety of applying the prin- 
ciple of freedom adopted in the profession of the liberal arts to some others, 
and particularly to the profession of the law. A memoir was also read on 
the necessity of giving females an education suited to their condition, and 
conformable to the diffusion of knowledge. (For. Quar. Rev. July, 1827.) 

The Ornithogalum, roasted as they do chestnuts, is eaten by the Italians, 
the wild yellow especially, with oil, vinegar, and pepper; and the small 
tuberous roots of Gramen amygdalosum (Cypérus esculéntus?), which 
they also roast, and use in broth as a great restorative. ( Evelyn.) 


PORTUGAL. 


The country south of the Tagus is, with the exception of that part of it 
nearest the river, chiefly covered with oak and cork trees; and the under- 
wood, for many leagues together, is composed of the gum-cistus. It is with 
this shrub that the bakers at Estremos, and throughout the Alemtejo, heat 
their ovens; and the smell of it, which every where prevails, is truly de- 
- lightful ; although to some strangers it is at first very overpowering. 

Apples I never saw of so large a size, or of such excellent flavour, as 
those of Montemor o Novo in the Alemtejo. This town is remarkable for 
the immense quantities of apples and quinces which abound in the whole 
_ of its neighbourhood, and of these fruit trees the hedges are formed, the 
species of the former called bem postas are of deserved celebrity. 

Moss Roses. — A few leagues from Evora, in a north-west direction, is a 
small village called Alcovas de Roses, from the quantities of beautiful moss 
roses growing wild about its hedges in every direction. They areas numerous 
as the blackberries in our own hedge-rows. (E2tracted from Sketches 
of Portugal, by A. P. D.G., and sent us by Clericus, June 2.) 


HOLLAND AND THE NETHERLANDS. 


The Royal Society of Agriculture and Botany of Ghent held a meeting 
on June 29th, and gave their prizes to the proprietors of the plants ex- 
hibited to which they had been adjudged. “ On this occasion we observed 
a cypress, with inscriptions expressing the regret of the Society for the loss 
it had sustained in the last twelve months by the death of M. M. Coninck 
(formerly Minister of the Interior), M. Fermondt, and the Marquess of Hast- 
ings (formerly Lord Moira). The Marchioness of Hastings has been for 
some time at Ghent. She, doubtless, was ignorant that the late Governor 
General of India had been a member of the Society, and one of the bene- 
factors of the botanic garden, and the directors of the Society, on their 
part, did not know that Her Ladyship was in the city. Going to the exhi- 
bition with her family, she was much affected at seeing this expression of 
the gratitude of the Society.” (Brussels Paper, July 5.) 

The Botanic Garden of Brussels has lately been materially improved, and’ 
several thousand species added to the collection. (Jour. d’ Agr. du Royaume 
des Pays Bas, Juin.) 


96 foreign Notices. — Russia, Denmark. 


RUSSIA. 


An Economica! Society, and a School for the education of future Agricultu- 
rists, have recently been established at Moscow, through the exertions of 
Prince Galitzin. ‘“ The branches of instruction are the following : — the 
Russian language, arithmetic, geography, statistics, rural architecture, sur- 
veying, book-keeping, agricultural chemistry, botany, the physiology of 
plants, the management of woods and forests, technology, farming, and the 
veterinary art. The course lasts five years. The Society publishes a journal 
in the Russian language, which has already accomplished much good.” 
(For. Quar. Rev., July, 1827.) 


DENMARK. 


Hamlet’s Garden is situated in the neighbourhood of Elsinore, and is 
the favourite promenade of the inhabitants of that seaport. It consists of 
two parts, the upper and lower garden. The lower garden is laid out in 
the French style, but the upper part is in the English manner. The palace 
of Marienlyst ( jig. 29.), Mary’s delight, stands in the lower garden _It was 


olentaals 


il 


il 


il Hi | 
MOLL cea 


pA 


intended for the residence of His present Danish Majesty, when Crown 
Prince. From the hill behind the palace may be enjoyed a marine pros- 
pect, which, travellers say, exceeds every thing between Denmark and 
Naples. Near Hamlet’s Garden is Hellebek, a village belonging to Count 
Schimmelmann, who for many years was one of the cabinet ministers of 
Denmark. The situation of this village, close to the sea, combines such a 
variety of marine and rural scenery as might present many interesting 
studies to the painter. The beech, the national tree of Denmark, flourishes 
here in superlative vigour, overtopping the oak, of which, however, many 
very fine specimens are also observed. Nature in this place seems to be 
left to herself, and altogether divested of those ornaments, which, in too 
many cases, injure what they were meant to improve. The traveller 
would scarcely suspect that he was approaching a nobleman’s seat, when he 
enters Hellebek. (Feldborg.) 


Foreign Notices. — North America. 97 


NORTH AMERICA. 


Linnean Botanic Garden near New York, April 20. 1827. — Among 
other novelties which I have lately introduced here is a large-flowered 
_ variety of Feonia moztan, of the colour of the common cabbage rose, 
direct from China. Caméllia japénica var. coccinea, which in 1826 pro- 
duced scarlet flowers, has this year produced striped ones. I have [ris 
purpurea and lutea blooming from the same root, which last year produced 
only purple flowers. I am cultivating extensively the Rhus coriaria, with 
a view to its being planted on a large scale, to supersede the necessity of 
importing the ground sumach from Sicily. One of the greatest ornaments 
of my garden is the Bérberis Aquifolium, with its fine large pennate leaves, 
and large clusters of bright yellow flowers. My plants, which are from the 
original seeds collected by Lewis and Clarke, are about 23 feet high, and I 
think they have nearly attained their full height. —'The fruit department was 
the particular study of my late father, who died in 1802, and it has been 
my study for nearly 80 years. I have all the best fruits of Europe in my 
collection, and have originated a number here, which are distinguished in 
my catalogue by my preenomen.— William Prince. 

Emigration to the Canadas. — Unquestionably, no man who is willing to 
make the slightest exertion can starve in America. If he will undertake 
to clear a farm, the means of subsistence are at once secured; should his 
habits unfit him for such an undertaking, the price of labour is so high, he 
is sure of lucrative employment in whatever capacity he chooses to enter 
the service of a master. So far the prospects of the emigrants are en- 
couraging and agreeable. 

But let us turn for a moment to the other side of the picture. Let us 
contemplate the exile seeking the portion allotted to him in the wilds of 
the forest, with the compass for his guide, doomed to endure, in his wretched 
log-hut, the rigours of a Canadian winter, without a human being for many 
miles round to break his solitude, or assist his labours. No village, no 
shop of any description, no medical advice within his reach, and worse than 
all, the lonely tenant of the woods is generally remote from any market, 
where he may dispose of the hard-earned fruits of his labours. (Personal 
Narrative of M. de Roos.) 

Native Country of the Potato. — 'There has been considerable discussion, 
you know, concerning the origin and derivation of this esculent vegetable. 
It has been enquired with some solicitude, what is really the country of the 
Solanum tuberosum ? and where does it exist without cultivation at the 
present day? I consider the articles I have received from Chile as afford- 
ing answers of a satisfactory kind to both questions. The potato, whence 
our domestic stock is derived, is an inhabitant of South America, and is, at 
this time, thriving without human care or protection in Chile. The speci- 
mens are small, some of them being not so large as nutmegs. (S. L. Mit- 
chill, in a letter to N. F. Carter, of the New York Horticultural Society.) 

Jamaica Society for the Encouragement of Agriculture, and other Arts ana 
Sciences. — Several members were elected, and the thanks of the Society 
were voted to Messrs. R. Smith, W. King, Dr. Adolphus, and Dr. Miller, 
for books; to Mr. Atkinson, for a rain-gauge; and to Dr. Adolphus, for a 
collection of minerals. 

It was voted that the medical officers of the navy and army should be 
permitted to visit the Society’s apartments, examine the specimens, &c., of 
natural history, and consult the books in the library. 

The following prizes were awarded : — 

Mr. Thompson of Happy Grove, for yams, 1/.; Mr. C. Satchell, for 
Indian yams, 13s. 4d.; Mr. J. Blake, for hallelujahs (?), 13s. 4d.; Mr. C. 

VoL. IIT. — No. 9. H 


9 Foreign Notices. ~— South America. 


Satchell, for celery, 13s. 4d.; Mr. Brookes, for strawberries, 13s. 4d. ; 
Mr. Brookes, for flowers, 13s. 4d.; Mr. R. Smith, for flowers, 13s. 4d. ; 
Rev. T. B. Turner, for wax, U. 6s. 8d. The Society granted Mr. Mac- 
fadgen the use of their rooms for botanical lectures. (Copied from the 
Jamaica R. Gazette by Y. B., June 21.) 

Botanic Garden of Mexico. ( fig. 30.)—An eloquent description of this gar- 
den is given by Humboldt. When Mr. Bullock saw it in 1823, the pension 
of the curator was about to be discontinued from the exigences of the state. 
It is situated in one of the courts of the vice-regal palace; and, though in the 
centre of a large and populous city, the plants seemed in perfect health 
and vigour. It is laid out with paved walks, bordered with ornamental 
pots of flowers, and shaded with creepers trained over them on trellis- 
work. Walks diverge from a large stone basin in the centre, constantly 
supplied by a fountain with water; which, in small rivulets, is employed to 
rigate every part of the garden. All the fruits both of Europe and 
India flourish in it. Mr. Bullock brought home models of most of the 
curious sorts, which are exhibited in his museum. He also brought a 
variety of seeds, and various plants, which were chiefly presented to the 


sie 


eR 
ty 


Horticultural Society, or disposed of to Mr. Tate, of the Sloane Street 
Nursery. (Bullock’s Mezico, p. 182.) 


SOUTH AMERICA. 


A Nursery Garden has been established in the city of Caraccas, by 
Dr. Fanning, an American, for the purpose of collecting the most useful 
and ornamental plants of Colombia. He is also forming a botanic garden 
in the vicinity, under the patronage of Bolivar. (Mew York Paper.) 

Orchideous Plants of Chile.—In this country, which, in the eyes of 
botanical geographers, forms a vegetative region of itself, which extends 
through 20° of southern latitude, and which has a surface varied with all 
the irregularity of mountains covered with eternal snow, rich valleys, and 
extensive plains, no more than three species of orchidez are at this moment 
recorded to exist. (Lindley, in Brand’s Journal of Science, Mar.1827, p. 45.) 

Botany of Chile. — From the copious materials relating to the vege- 
tation of Chile which exist in this country, much information of the most 
important nature is to be derived; but from no source so extensively, 
perhaps, as from the collections formed for the Horticultural Society by 
Mr. James M‘Rae. (Lindley, in Brand’s Journal of Science, Mar. 1827, 
p. 44. 

Desee from South America. — Doctor Hamilton of Fareham has 
circulated a paper, with a view to procure seeds, flowers, or leaves of 
the following plants: —1. The Cow-tree, Palo de Vaca, or Arbol de 


Foreign Notices. — Asia. — 99 


Leche, of the coast of Caraccas. (Humboldt, Personal Narr. p. 212-215.) 
2. Mauritia Palm, Tree of Life, Arbol de Vida, Murichil, or American 
Sago Tree; the bread, wine, lodging, and clothing of the Indians on the 
northern banks of the Oronoko. 5. Inga feeculifera, Pois Doux, from 
the vicinity of the city of Santo Domingo, Hispaniola; with pods about 10 
inches long, which form an article of diet highly nutritive. 

To preserve the Seeds in a state fit for vegetation, he says:— Fill an old 
cask about half full of moist earth; then put the seeds, those especially 
which are of an oily nature, and consequently liable to spoil soonest, as near 
the centre of the cask as possible ; then fill up the remaining portion of the 
cask with moist earth, ramming it tight, and heading the cask so as to make 
it as completely air and water tight as possible, and stow it away in a place 
to which no salt water is likely to reach. In this way, seeds may be 
brought, with perfect safety, from the East Indies or New Holland. 

To preserve the Flowers.—Gather them in various stages, from the young 
bud to the full-blown blossom, and press them carefully between several 
folds of blotting paper, changing them into dry parts of the paper, every 
second or third day, until all their moisture is absorbed; and then press 
them between the leaves of some book of sufficient size, until an opportu- 
nity of transmitting them to Europe presents itself. The same cautions 
apply to leaves, which should always be the most perfect. — Fareham, near 
Plymouth, May 12. 1826. 


ASIA. 


The Silk Tree, Acacia julibrissin, Durikhti ubrishoém, Persian.—This tree 
droops like the willow ; the flower has silky fibres, of a delicate pink colour, 
and would resemble a swansdown puff, tinged with rouge. [t sends forth 
a most fragrant perfume, and its name, Durikhti ubrishoom, the silk 
tree, bespeaks its appearance. It thrives in Teheraun in the open air, the 
thermometer ranging between 16° and 110° Fahrenheit; but it does not 
succeed so well at Tabriz, where the temperature is colder and more 
variable. It grows wild in the forests bordering on the Caspian Sea. There 
is one in the garden of the Prince Royal at Tabriz, and another in possession 
of the English officers resident there, who are obliged to protect it from the 
winter cold. (Keppel’s Jour. from India.) The finest plant in England is 
in the Bristol Nursery ; it covers the front of Mr. Miller’s dwelling-house, is 
now covered with bloom, and is worth going 20 miles to see. — S. Aug. 20. 

Lhe Rasteraun, most probably the Hibiscus syriacus, is remarkable in 
its appearance, and resembles a large rose tree. It grows to the height of 
twenty feet; the trunk is nearly two feet in circumference; the flower, 
though larger, resembles the English hedge rose, and has five leaves; the 
calyx is in the form of a bell. The leaf of the tree is small, smooth, and 
shining. The branches droop gracefully to the ground, and the flowers are 
so abundant as completely to conceal the stem of the tree. Numbers of 
this species are to be seen in every garden in Teheraun. (Keppel’s Journ. 

from india.) 

Botanic Garden of Ceylon. — Sir Alexander Johnston, while President of 
the Council in Ceylon, was convinced by a long residence in Ceylon, that 
the nature and value of the different vegetable productions of that island 
were not sufficiently known, that the quantity of those which were the most 
useful might be greatly increased, and their quality greatly improved, were 
the attention of government and the public properly called to the subject ; 
and that the very best way of attaining this object would be for govern- 
ment to establish a botanical garden in a central part of the island, and 
subordinate gardens in the several provinces in which there was any 
material difference of soil and climate. Sir A. Johnston, therefore, in 

HZ 


100 Foreign Notices. — Australasia. 


1810, when he came to England, at the request of the Ceylon government, 
for the purpose of proposing different improvements which were deemed 
of advantage to the island, submitted to His Majesty’s ministers a plan of 
establishing a botanical garden of the description which has been men- 
tioned. His Majesty’s ministers after consulting with the late Sir Joseph 
Banks, adopted Sir Alexander’s plan, and attached a salary of 500/. a year, 
exclusive of house-rent and travelling expenses, to the office of botanical 
superintendant of the Royal Botanical Garden in Ceylon, who was to have 
a pension in case of ill health, or twelve years’ service on that island. In- 
dependently of other objects, one great object which Sir Alexander had in 
view was, to place the garden in Ceylon in communication with establish- 
ments in different parts of Asia, Africa, and Europe, so as to enable it to 
ascertain what productions of any quarter of the world might be intro- 
duced with advantage into Ceylon, either as an article of food, or as one 
of manufacture, and also what production of Ceylon could be introduced 
with advantage into any other quarter of the globe, and thereby enhance 
the value abroad of the productions of Ceylon, by increasing the demand 
for them, and improve the situation of the inhabitants, by increasing the 
quantity and description of vegetables which might be used as food by 
them. This plan was of the more importance, as it was connected with an- 
other plan, which was also proposed by Sir Alexander, and adopted by His 
Majesty’s government, for doing away with the restrictions which existed in 
the King’s settlements of Ceylon, as they do to this day in the Company’s 
settlements throughout India, against Europeans holding any land ; and on 
the contrary of encouraging Europeans, by giving them grants of land, to 
become landholders in Ceylon, and to employ their capital in the improve- 
ment of the agriculture and manufactures of the country. Sir A. Johnston, 
previous to his submitting the above plans to His Majesty’s government, 
in order that he might be enabled to give government such information 
upon the subject as they might require, caused the most detailed reports 
to be made to him, by the natives of the different parts of the island, of the 
nature of the different vegetable productions of the country, which were of 
the most general use, either as food, or as raw materials for manufactories, 
or as articles of export. 

Sir Alexander Johnston has favoured us with copies of many of these 
reports, and as they contain much useful and new information, we shall 
from time to time extract from them what we consider will be interesting 
to our readers. (Extracted from a communication by Sir Alexander John- 
ston, August 7.) ’ 

Dr. Walleck of Calcutta, the celebrated botanist, has gone with the Eng- 
lish embassy to Ava, where he has already made great acquisitions in his 
department of science. (Newsp.) 


AUSTRALASIA. 


Austrahan Agricultural and Horticultural Society, August, 1826. — 
Premiums were offered for various agricultural productions, and for the 
best treatise on Australian agriculture; the best treatise on Australian gar- 
dening; a treatise on the best and most economical mode of preparing 
extract of bark from the mimosa, and other trees of the colony ; on the best 
and most economical mode of preparing the potash of commerce from the 
woods of the colony; and on the best mode of preparing the castor oil 
from the seed of the Ricinus communis. 

The Honourable Alexander M‘Leay, F.R.S. &c. formerly Secretary to 
the Linnean Society of London, is the Vice-Patron of this Society, and, 
among its Committee, we observe the name of Robert Townson, LL.D. 
the celebrated author of Travels in Hungary. (Colonial Times.) ; 


Domestic Notices. — England. 101 


“ Austrakan Agricultural and Horticultural Society, February, 1827. — 
A report was read, by which it appears that the crop of wheat was above 
an average, and the crop of maize promised to be abundant, where it was 
sown in rich alluvial soil, but a failure on fresh land. ‘Tobacco is said to 
be less extensively grown, since the reduction of the duty. The condition 
of the vineyards is mentioned as extremely luxuriant. The influence of 
the turf-club, in encouraging the breed of horses, forms a subject of con- 
gratulation, as also the increasing numbers, and the improvement in quality, 
of the breeds of horned cattle. An improvement of the quality of wool 
produced from sheep of the Saxon breed is also noticed. (Colonial Times.) 

The fruits of New South Wales, and the general state of gardening in the 
Colonies in that part of the world, are very fully given in Two Years in New 
South Wales, by P. Cunningham, Surgeon, Royal Navy, lately published. 
The indigenous fruits are not very numerous, but every European fruit 
thrives there freely in the open air; and most of the tropical fruits grow in 
warm situations, and require only the protection of a glass frame during 
the season of ripening. 


—_—_—_—_—_—_—_— 


Art. II. Domestic Notices. — 


ENGLAND. 


CONCENTRATION of the Sun’s Rays for the Purpose of accelerating Vege- 
tation and the Maturation of Fruits.— Mr. Gauen, the author of the plan 
for blooming fruits (p.54.), is about to bring forward a very ingenious in- 
vention for hastening the maturity and increasing the flavour of fruits, and | 
for flowering, with greater vigour, every description of exotic plant. The 
effect is produced by concentrating the sun’s rays by means of lenses 
( fig. 51. a), which 51 
may be self-adjusted 
by watch machinery, 
on a hollow cast- 
iron ball (4), with an 
opening at the lower 
extremity (c), to ad-: 
mit the air to be 
heated in the ball, 
and another on the 
upper surface (d), to 
allow the heated air 
to pass off through 
iron tubes, which it 
heats in its passage. 
These tubes (ee, ff) 
are distributed at 
pleasure among the 
trees or plants on === 
which it is intended = “SSS SS SS = 
to operate. In the case of a wall tree (fig. 31.), the arrangement would be 
very simple, and consist of one main tube (ee), with a number of branch 
tubes (f ff ) of different lengths, so as to distribute the air over the surface 
of the tree and wall. Mr. Gauen has tried many experiments with this 
engine, some of which, with a more detailed account of the invention, will 
be found in our succeeding number. He also informs us that by November 
he will be able to announce where the machines may be purchased, to- 


H 3 


Cr£ 
g, 


Se en AA ——— 


102 Domestic Notices. — England. 


gether with a treatise on their use. Mr. Gauen has also invented a revolving 
forcing-frame, of which an account will appear in our pages at the same 
time. 

The application of solar concentration to generating heat appears capable 
of being carried to an unlimited extent in forcing and maintaining artificial 
climates. Had Dr. Anderson been alive, he would have been delighted to 
_ recognise a principle by which his idea might be realised, of generating, or 
collecting and storing up, in or near hot-houses, as much solar heat during 
sunshine as would serve during night and dull weather. In our opinion, 
Mr. Gauen’s invention would effect this object, if applied to heat an immense 
body of water, or gravel, or metal, surrounded by a non-conducting medium, 
which would form the reservoir of heat ; and this heat might be drawn out 
by means of a current of air passing through the body, in coils of metallic 
tubes. This current of air, as well as the admission of external air to the 
hot-house, might be regulated by Mr. Kewley’s machine. (Encyc. of Gard., 
§ 1490.): Indeed, Mr. Gauen’s engine is the most ingenious gardening in- 
vention which has appeared since that of Mr. Kewley. We should like to 
see both applied to the heating and regulating of a hot-house constructed 
on the polyprosopic principle (Encyc. of Gard., § 1610.), and wish we 
could indulge the hope that some spirited individual would attempt such a 
thing. A successful result would certainly be the ne plus ultra of hot-house 
gardening. 

Truffies. —Some time in September last a friend of mine, a nephew 
to Mr. Tully, confectioner of Bath, paid me a visit at this place. When 
walking through the woods belonging to my employer, Colonel Kingscote, 
he asked me if I had not found truffles about them; I told him I had not 
searched for them. This he wondered at, because the woods adjoming, 
he said, were the places from whence they procured most of what they 
used at Bath. He added, that if I would allow him to come the next 
‘season, which he said would be September or October, 1827, he would bring 
a dog and have a day’s excursion ; in the mean time if I would accompany 
him to those and other places, he would show me where and how to find 
them. Anxious to be informed, I accepted his offer, and by the help of 
his dog soon found several. The situation was indeed similar to the woods 
of Kingscote, as also the soil they grew in. The woods are principally 
beech, the soil rather stiff and stony. I hope to be successful in the 
attempt I mean to make to cultivate the truffle, and then shall be most 
happy to furnish something farther in the shape of information. — William 
Boyce. Kingscote Gardens, July 21. 

Rheum palmatum as Tart Rhubarb.— About fifty years ago the late Ge- 
neral Manners, of Bloxholm in this county, on his return from Russia, 
brought home seeds of the Rhéum palmitum. My father procured a few 
plants of the gardener, and it has been cultivated in the garden 1 now pos- 
sess ever since, and the stalks regularly used every vear. I have tried the 
R Rhaponticum and the undulitum, which are muck cultivated in this 
neighbourhood, but certainly the R. palmatum is preferred to either.— 
R. Turner. Grantham, May 21. 1827. 

Passifiora quadrangularis 1s frequently grafted upon P. czerulea in France, 
and flowers and fruits the same vear, sometimes on plants not higher than 
eighteen inches. (Vallet ainé of Rouen.) Some amateurs about London, 
among others Mr. Burnard of Holloway, have grafted various species of 
Passiflora on P. czerulea with perfect success. 

Pelargonium tricolor, grafted on the top of tall stems of P. cucullatum or 
zonale, forms very handsome heads, which keep in bloom all the summer. 
Mr. Ingram has some fine specimens in the gardens of Frogmore. 

Six Pine-apples, of the New Providence kind, were cut on the 23d, 
24th, and 25th ult., by William Crawshay, Esq., of Cyfartha Castle, Gla- 


Domestic Notices. — England. 103 


morganshire, of the following weights, and their growth and beauty were 
quite perfect: — One 12 lb. 15 0z.; ditto, 10 lb. 8 oz.; ditto, 10 lb. exactly ; 
ditto, 9lb.; ditto, 9 lb.; making an average of upwards of 10 lb. 10 oz. 
each. Within the same period, twelve queen-pines were cut, weighing 
together 35 lb. (Times, July 6.) : 

The stamens of the flowers of Schizanthus pinnatus, on being touched with 
a needle or knife point, possess the same irritability as the stamina of the 
Beérberis vulgaris. — R. Turner. Grantham, May 21. } 

Horticultural Depravity.— On the night of the 16th of June, some mis- 
creant entered into the garden of J. T. Dering, Hsq., of Crow Hall, near 
Downham-market, broke open the green-house, and maliciously destroyed 
every plant therein, including many fine orange and lemon trees, many of 
them of nearly forty years’ growth. The ruthless villain then barked, cut 
down, and demolished between forty and fifty peach, nectarine, and other 
choice and valuable wall-fruit trees, which were in full bearing, and had 
been selected with great care to supply the deficiency occasioned by last 
year’s depredation. He also cut through and destroyed several fine vines 
giving promise of an abundant crop, rooted up every melon and cucumber 
plant, and broke and destroyed all the frames and glasses. (Farm. Jour., 
July, 9.) — We hope the unhappy wretch who committed these acts was no 
regular gardener. 

Enormous Thistle. —There is now growing in the garden of Mr. G. 
Hardwick, of Stamford Bridge, a thistle, of the extraordinary height of 9 
feet 2 inches; the leaves, in general, are 3 feet long, and 2 feet broad ; 
there are four branches from near the bottom, 6 feet 2 inches long, each 
of which has thrown out 17 branches, with heads and flowers. There are 
25 branches from the main stalk, from which have sprung the uncommon 
number of 253 smaller branches, with heads and flowers: on one of those 
stalks there are other branches with heads. (Yorkshire Gazette, July 21.) 

Chelsea Botanic Garden, July 9. — There are now in flower here three 
hundred different sorts of wheat, viz. fifteen species with their varieties, 
forty sorts of oats, and eighteen of barley, from seeds brought from Spain, the 
Adriatic Gulf, and the shores of the Caspian Sea, by Professor La Gasca. 
(Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 220.) It is hoped seeds will be saved from all these 
varieties, and sent to the different botanic gardens of the empire, in order 
to be sown in them, and the produce distributed among such local agricul- 
turists as have the means and sufficient patriotism to give them a fair trial 
on a scale sufficient to admit of ascertaining their comparative merits. If 
Mr. Coke, the Duke of Bedford, Lord Althorp, the Duke of Portland, 
Mr. Curwen, and, in Scotland, Mr. Rennie, were to take up this subject 
with their characteristic energy and perseverance, the result would probably _ 
be some new and valuable varieties of grain introduced into general culture. 
Mr. Anderson, the curator, has obligingly sown these seeds for Professor 
La Gasca, who, we doubt not, will be found most liberal in the distribution 
of the produce as far as it will go. 

Traps for Hay-stealers. — Have the grower’s name printed or written on 
a great number of little slips of paper: distribute these in the hayrick as it 
is building, so as there may be at least one slip to each truss, which will 
not require above one hundred slips to an acre, but to make quite sure, 
say two hundred. Then when you suspect your man has given away a 
truss, or any particular truss or quantity to be stolen from your cart or 
rick, have the truss pulled to pieces, &c. This practice has been adopted 
in Shropshire, and a thief detected and convicted in consequence. The 
ingenious inventor is Mrs. Richards, of the Parish of Clun. (See Farm. 
Jour., July 25. p. 255. 

Raninculus dcris, the sharp, or upright meadow crowfoot, is said to 
blister the mouth, stomach, and udder of cows. Mr. Whitlaw, who has a 


H 4 


104 Domestic Notices. — Scotland. 


patent for administering medicines by steam, and extensive establishments 
for this purpose, makes it a rule not to allow the use of milk or butter by 
his patients, while this species of ranunculus is in flower. All the diseases 
with which we are afilicted, he says, are owing to the imperfection of our 
agriculture, by which the seeds of poisonous weeds are ground into flour 
along with the corn; and milk, butter, and beef are contaminated, even in 

’ the living animal, in consequence of the deleterious plants which are suffered 
to grow in our pastures. It was a happy thought in Mr. Whitlaw, to combat 
such a wide-spreading evil by the power of steam. 

Botanical Lessons. — We observe, with great pleasure, that Miss Kent, 
the author of those elegant works Flora Domestica, Sylvan Sketches, &c., 
proposes to give young ladies instruction in the science of botany. It 
is remarkable that this delightful science, which would seem to be more 
peculiarly a lady’s study, has hitherto been almost entirely neglected by 
them ; this may have proceeded, in some measure, from the difficulty in 
obtaining assistance ; and Miss Kent is encouraged to hope that she may 
be the means of extending to others the pleasures and advantages she has 
herself derived from this innocent and interesting pursuit. Miss Kent’s 
address is No. 72. St. Paul’s Churchyard. (Times, Aug. 7.) 


SCOTLAND. 


Caledonian Horticultural Society, June 7. — Prizes were awarded for the 
best brace of cucumbers, and their history; for the only parcel of early peas 
exhibited, of the early frame variety ; for the best specimen of early po- 
tatoes; for the best asparagus. The Committee regret to state that no 
China roses were produced to the meeting; “ eight distinct varieties ” 
being required in flower, while few cultivators can have more than half 
that number in flower at one time. An extra medal was awarded to Mr. 
W. Oliver, gardener to the Earl of Rosslyn, at Dysart House, for the best 
collection of dessert and baking apples, with a request that he would com- 

-municate their history, and mode of preserving the fruit till this season. 

Specimens of a very good late Pear, in perfect preservation, were exhibited ; 
and the Committee were of opinion, that an extra medal should be awarded 
for this pear, and grafts of it requested for the experimental garden; and, 
also, that an account of the mode of keeping the fruit should be requested. 
A medal was accordingly awarded to Mr. Robert Reid, gardener to Sir 
Alexander Keith, of Ravelstone, who sent the pear. 

A box of Nonpareil Apples, in the most perfect state of preservation, ex- 
cited the admiration of the Committee ; and, as they did not consider them- 
selves entitled to vote farther medals at this meeting, they directed that 
paca notice should be taken of these nonpareils. ‘Thanks given to 

r. Alexander Bisset, at Methven Castle, who transmitted them, and that 
he be requested to communicate his mode of keeping fruit. (Edin. Adv., 
June 19.) 

The North British Professional Gardener’s Society held a meeting June 
15. Prizes were awarded for tulips, peaches, potatoes, cauliflower, rhubarb, 
ranunculas, gerantums, and double balsams. (din. Adv., June 19.) 

The Dundee Horticultural Society held a meeting on August Ist, and 
gave away numerous prizes, which, we regret, want of room prevents us 
from recording. Mr. Daniel Stewart, gardener to David Blair, junior, Esq. 
Craighill, exhibited some flowers of a superb new seedling rose, which pro- 
mises to be an important acquisition to that deservedly popular tribe ; to 
the rambling habit of the Ayrshire, it adds the beauty of some of the double 
white varieties, and undoubtedly it will ere long supplant many of our com- 
mon ornaments of the cottage and the rock. We understand it is to be 
named the Craighill climbing rose. (Dundee Cour., Aug. 5.) 


Domestic Notices. — Scotland. 105 


The Caledonian Lodge of Gardeners had their splendid triennial proces- 
sion in Edinburgh, on July 3d. The brethren assembled in the Riding 
School, Nicolson Street, at two o’clock, and a number of deputations from 
the lodges in the neighbouring towns arrived in succession. Shortly after 
three o’clock the grand display commenced. The whole procession moved 
off, in regular order, by the South and North Bridges, and thence to the 
British Hotel. The members were tastefully decorated with their sashes 
and the other showy insignia of their order; and their flags, music, and 
beautiful garlands of flowers, gave the whole an appearance greatly supe- 
rior to that of the common parades.. The members dined in the Hopetoun 
Rooms, and spent the evening in the most harmonious manner. (Scotsman, 
July 4. 

The University Course of Lectures on Botany were terminated July 30th, 
when the following prizes were awarded: —To Mr. Edward Moore, of 
Plymouth, a gold medal, for the best essay on the plants which are 
»oisonous either to man or the inferior animals, and belong to the British 

lora, with various circumstances (as stated in the intimation given last 
year) relative to their natural history, culture, and properties. To Mr. 
Isaac Haig, of Bemersyde, Berwickshire, a silver medal, for the essay next 
in merit on the same subject. To Mr. John Sutherland, of Edinburgh, a 
silver medal, for a herbarium collected in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh. 
Before opening the sealed notes, in which were the names of the successful 
competitors, Dr. Graham expressed himself much pleased with all the essays 
given in. They evinced much patient research and general knowledge of 
the subject. He also complimented the collector of the herbarium on the 
very great accuracy with which the plants were named. (Scotsman, Aug. 1.) 

A Strawberry, exceeding five inches in circumference, was gathered in the 
neighbourhood of Edinburgh in the last week of July. (Scotsman, Aug. 1.) 

Yicca gloridsa and flamentosa have flowered magnificently in the nursery, 
grounds, Leith Walk, and at Redbraes, Bonnington Road, belonging to 
Dicksons & Co. Some of them were upwards of ten feet high, and covered 
with many hundreds of blossoms. They are supposed to be the finest that 
have yet flowered in this quarter of the country. (Scotsman.) 

The Edinburgh Green-Market has been abundantly supplied with the 
vegetables and fruits of the season during the last two months. There 
has been some altercation respecting the size of the strawberry-baskets, 
which the Committee of the Fruit-Gardeners have set at rest, by declaring 
by advertisement (Scotsman, June 20.) that the baskets at present in use 
contain one full imperial quart each, which is about one fifth less than the 
former basket.— B. Edin., Aug. 10. 

Botanic Garden, Edinburgh, June 7. 1827. — List of rare plants which 
have flowered during the last three months, communicated by Dr. Graham 
to Professor Jameson :—Acacia lunata and mucronata, Banksta integrifolia, 
Cactus heptagonus, Cycas circinalis, Dracee‘na obtécta, Dryas integrifolia, 
Liparia sphee rica and villosa, Lomatia longifolia, Magnolia cordata, Oma- 
lanthus populifolius, Oxalis bipunctata, Passiflora pedunculata, Pene*a 
imbricata, Primula longiflora, Psidium chinénse, Sterculia Balanghas 
Strophanthus divérgens, Trixus auriculata. (Hd. Phil. Jour., June, 1827, 
p- 174.) 

Watching the Swarming of Bees.—The hive is placed upon a weighing 
beam, about three feet eight inches long, with a board on the other end, 
on which stones of the weight of the hive are put. When the bees begin 
to cast, (an ordinary top swarm is between 4b. and 5 lb. weight,) and 
when the first pound’s weight of bees have left the hive, the beam will turn 
back a little, the same way as a merchant’s scale does on the counter: but, 
before the scale rests, it forces out a trigger, like the pin of a mole-trap, 


: : : 8 : : 
which lets off a small iron wire to a bell in the house, that gives sufficient 


106. Horticultural Society and Garden. 


warning to the bee-mother to go and take care of the swarm. The above 
method has been practised for several years by Mr. Duncan, gardener, near 
Ayr. (Glasgow Chronicle.) 


IRELAND. 


OVea excélsa. —A correspondent (J. R. K.) informs us that he has found 
the O'lea excélsa stand the winters of Ireland without injury for the last six 
or seven years, in an exposed situation, though it had to endure, in one 
instance, a frost of 18° Farenheit. He thinks it will prove a valuable 
acquisition to our stock of hardy evergreens, being arborescent, perhaps a 
forest tree, from its specific name excélsa, or lofty. Its growth is vigorous, 
its form pleasing, and foliage large and rich ; it perfects its shoots early, and 
its buds appear well formed to resist the cold. Any dry soil suits it, and it 
may be rapidly propagated by grafting on the privet, or by layers. It is a 
native of Madeira, pernaps of an elevated part of the island. 

The Reinette Franche Apple, the same correspondent recommends, as 
being the most valuable eating apple for the season. It is in use from 
January to July. Large, rather oblong, about 2% inches in its greatest 
diameter; sides somewhat angular; green until fit for use, then yellowish, 
anda little ruddy to the sun, with some russet about the eye and stalk ; 
flesh juicy, sugary, and rich, never mealy. It is a great bearer, and makes 
vigorous upright shoots ; leaves large, and many of them of a remarkable 
oblong oval. The French say it is the best apple they have. 

The Reine Claude Violette Plum, or Purple Gage, is a new seedling variety 
of the Green Gage, of a purple colour, equally good, and a better bearer : 
it hangs longer on the tree, and is the best red plum we have. In its wood 
and leaves it generally resembles the Green Gage, but its buds are larger, 
its leaves of a darker green, more rugose, and more regularly crenated. — 
J. R. K. July 10. 1827. 


Art. II. Horticultural Society and Garden. 


JUNE 5th.— Read. Remarks upon the application of tar to wooden 
fences and walls, with observations on the mode of destroying insects pre- 
judicial to fruit trees: by Daniel Edward Stephens, Esq. On the cultiva- 
tion of the Polyanthes tuberosa: by the Rev. George Swayne, C.M.H.S. 

Distributed. Cardon d’Espagne, Poirée & Cardes blanche, and Gindé- 
thera biénnis, from M. Vilmorin, C.M.HS. Fine blue Kohl Rabi, from 
Messrs. Booth of Hamburgh. Marseilles Lettuce, from Mr. William Mal- 
colm, F.H.S. 

Exhibited. Flowers of Rhododéndron Catawbiénse-Pénticum, a hybrid 
variety. Flowers of Yacca angustifolia, and Lambert’s large nut. Dried 
apricots from Morocco, and walnuts from Morocco, four years old. Early 
Cantaloup melon. Lemons grown on a wall protected by glass only. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Fruits of the Flat Peach ot China, 
and early May Cherries. Flowers of various Roses, of various Pzonies, of 
various Irises, of various Ranunculuses, of Glycine frutéscens, of Lupinus 
polyphyllus, a very handsome species ; of Scilla peruviana (blue), of Straw- 
coloured Broom, and of Quisqualis indica. 

June 19th.— Exhibited. A plant in flower of Geranium Htimez. Flowers 
of Double Ranunculuses, from Mr. Thomas Hogg of Paddington, and from 
Mr. Henry Groom, F.H.S. Double Roses, and Knevett’s Pine Strawberry. 


Horticultural Society and Garden. 107 


Also from the Garden of the Society. Flowers of Lonicéra flexuosa, 
Show Roses, Double and Single Ranunculuses, Paonia Whitleji, Paonia 
fragrans, Rose Boursault, Watt’s Climbing China, Fraser’s Double China, 
Rosa Champneydna and Italian Evergreen Rose ; twelve sorts of Straw- 
berries; seven sorts of Oraches, viz. White, Red-stalked White, Green, 
Red-stalked Green, Lurid, Purple, and Red; also four sorts of Lettuces, 
viz. Black-seeded Got, Laitue de Malte, Union Cabbage, and Large White 
Silesia. 

July 3d. — Read. An account of some improvements in the construc- 
tion of hot-beds: by Thomas Andrew Knight, Esq. F R.S. &c., president, 
A paper on the cultivation of the pine-apple : by Mr. George Sanders, gar- 
dener to the Rev. James Tomkinson, F.H.S. An account of a new melon 
and cucumber pit: by Mr. Edward Malone, C.M.H.S., gardener to George 
Savile Foljambe, Esq. I'.H.S. 

Exhibited. A collection of Roses from Mr. John Lee, F.H.S., a mon- 
strous Campanula, a collection of Pinks from Messrs. Ronalds and Sons, 
a Nepal Rose, a collection of Pinks from Mr. Hogg of Paddington, Seed- 
ling Pinks from Mr. George Pittman of Hommerton, Pzonia albiflora 
Himei, Peonia albiflora fragrans, and O’phrys apifera, from Mr. James 
Young, F'.H.S. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Netted Succada and Netted Can- 
taloup Melons. Blood Red and Havannah Pine-apples, and twenty-two 
sorts of Strawberries. Eight sorts of Lettuces. Flowers of a variety of Show 
and other Roses, of varieties of Pzonies, of varieties of Single Poppy-Ane- 
mones, of varieties of Sweet Williams, of varieties of French Marigolds, 
and varieties of eight sorts of other flowers. 

July \7th.— Read. Observations on the cultivation of stove plants: by 
Sir Edward Poore, Bart. F.H.S. 

Exhibited. A cone of Pinus Lambérti (Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 228.) from 
the river Colombia, sent by Mr. David Douglas, one of the Society’s col- 
lectors. Various flowers, from Mr. Robert Donald, F.H.S. A collection 
of Carnations and Picotees, from Mr. Hogg of Paddington. A plant in 
flower of Digitalis scéptrum. Sooted yellow-fruited variety of Ribes ni- 
grum, Red Roman Nectarine and Noblesse Peaches. A grape unnamed, 
which appeared to be the Raisin des Carmes. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Flowers of varieties of Dwarf and 
tall Dahlias, of: varieties of French Marigolds, of varieties of Roses, of 
varieties of Stocks, and flowers of Catléya nova sp. (one of the most beau- 
tiful of epiphytes), of Gloxinia speciosa var. flore alba, of Collomia grandi- 
flora, of Généthera Lindleydna, of Clarkia pulchélla, of Papaver Rhee'as, 
and of Cyanus. Fruits of nineteen sorts of Gooseberries, seven sorts of 
Raspberries, of two sorts of Currants, of Green Pine Strawberries, of Queen 
Pine and Black Antigua Pine-apples, and of Rbes tenuiflorum. 

The prizes for fruit exhibited on the 25d of June, 1827, were awarded 
as follows : — 

The large silver medal for the best fruits, consisting of pines and grapes, 
to Mr. James Brown, gardener to the Duke of Buckingham, at Stowe in 
Buckinghamshire. 

The Banksian medals. To Mr. William M‘Murtrie, gardener to the Vis- 
count Anson, at Shuckburgh in Staffordshire, for pine-apples and melons. 
To Mr. Christie Duff, gardener to the Earl Grosvenor, at Eaton Hall in 
Cheshire, for various fruits. To Mr. John Bowers, gardener to the Lord 
Selsey, at West Dean House in Sussex, for grapes, nectarines, and a melon. 
To Charles Gomond Cook, Esq., of Upper Poole House in Herefordshire, 
for a Providence Pine. To Mr. Thomas Tyer, gardener to the Lord Ellen- 
borough, at Roehampton in Surrey, for strawberries. To the Right Hon. 
Reginald Pole Carew, for citrons grown in the open air in his garden at 
Anthony House in Cornwall. 


108 Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Anniversary Féte, July 23.— Instead of a dinner as heretofore, it was 
resolved to give a public breakfast in the Society’s garden at Chiswick, and 
to admit the families and friends of the fellows to a certain extent, and 
under certain regulations determined by a committee, and approved of by 
a select number of ladies of rank under the designation of “ Ladies Pa- 
tronesses” of the féte. The price of the tickets was one guinea each; 
“2975 tickets were issued, and 2843 persons attended. A larger number 
of Fellows of the Society were present than have ever been known to have 
met together on any former occasion. Notwithstanding the magnitude 
of the assemblage, the arrangements and regulations were such as to pre- 
vent all injury to the garden, not a single plant having been damaged. 
From the success of the experiment in this instance, the Council are led to 
hope that a repetition of the meeting in future years will be found highly 
conducive to the interest of the Society, by exhibiting to the greatest ad- 
vantage the produce of its labours, and by diffusing more generally among 
the public a taste for horticultural pursuits. The expenses have been 
more than defrayed by the receipts; and, although the Council did not an- 
ticipate such a result, it is probable that there will be a surplus, out of 
which it is proposed to erect some building of permanent utility in the 
garden.” (Hztracted from a paper suspended in the Society’s Meeting-Room.) 

This féte produced a good deal of discussion in the newspapers at the 
time, and some temporary inconveniences, arising from a deficiency of re- 
freshments, gave rise to expressions of dissatisfaction; but, the cause being 
of a temporary nature, and easily remedied in future, it is not worth re- 
cording. It was allowed by all parties that such an assemblage of women 
of beauty, fashion, and rank, had never before been seen in a garden. 
Objections, however, have been taken to this féte, as a misappropriation of 
the garden, and as degrading it to the rank of a place of public amuse- 
ment ; and, as our wish is to be impartial on every subject, we give the fol- 
lowing letter :— 

The Féte at Chiswick. — Sir, —You have on many occasions shown your- 
self a warm friend to the Horticultural Society, but, at the same time, 
manifested that you will not shrink trom a bold and independent expression 
of your sentiments respecting any part of its proceedings which may seem 
to call for reprehension. 

Trusting that you are prepared to view the matter in the same light 
with myself, I do hepe and expect that your next Number will contain 
some severe strictures on the notable féte which it seems is to take place 
at the garden of the Society on the 23d inst. I expect that you will be 
equally ready with myself to reprobate such a project, and that, through 
the medium of your Magazine, the subscribers may be excited very gene- 
rally to protest against the recurrence of such a misappropriation of their 
own grounds. ‘The Society, if I mistake not, was instituted, and its garden 
formed, to promote a more general diffusion of scientific and useful know- 
ledge on the subject of horticulture; and I, for one, most exceedingly 
regret that these objects should have been so far lost sight of, that the 
Society should be made to pander to the sickly appetite for amusement of 
the fashionable world. It is beneath the dignity and beside the purpose of 
the Society. If it is designed to bring the Society more into notice, and 
recommend the garden especially to the liberal patronage of the amateurs 
of an elegant and useful science, nothing could have been worse conceived 
than this new project, by which every thing is done to destroy the dis- 
tinctive character of the garden as a scene for exercising and displaying 
useful science and ornamental design, and to turn it into a mere locus of 
exhibiting amusements wholly foreign to these objects. If it is in contem- 
plation to augment the funds of the Suciety by such attractions, I must say 
that it is a paltry scheme, unworthy of the cause, and one which, I trust, 


Provincial Societies. Wee 109 


will be disavowed and protested against by the great body of the sub- 
scribers. I could say more on this subject, especially on the manner of 
carrying the scheme into effect. What have “ Ladies Patronesses” to do 
with the exhibition of the Society’s garden? But I forbear, my object 
being to excite your attention to the subject, and to put your pen into 
requisition, rather than to exercise my own. I am, Sir, &c. —A Subscriber 
to your Magazine and F. H. S. London, June 21. 1827. 


Other letters on the same subject (by F. S. and W. M.), which we do not 
think it of use to give at length, attempt to ridicule the idea of combining 
Kensington Gardens, Vauxhall, and Bagnigge Wells, in what the writer says 
should be exclusively devoted to science, and be supported on principles of 
utility, and not rendered dependent in any degree on fashion. The price 
of tickets for ladies is complained of, and also the limitation of the number 
of ladies to one, from the families of such of the Fellows of the Society as 
are not subscribers to the garden. 

At first sight there seems a deviation from propriety in mixing up fashion 
with science, and rendering an experimental garden a public promenade ; 
and if this were to be done frequently in the course of the season, we 
should think the practice reprehensible: but what can be more harmless 
than such a féte once a year? If the Society may dine or breakfast together 
once a year ina tavern, surely they may do so in their own garden. If it 
be asked what strangers and the ladies have to do at such meetings, the 
question may be answered by asking if horticulturists must necessarily 
be less social and gallant than other men. For our own part, we are 
of opinion that it would be an easy matter to show that such fétes are cal- 
culated to do much good, both to the Horticultural Society and to society 
in general. It is obviously allowable and praiseworthy to call in the in- 
fluence of fashion as an auxiliary support to useful institutions ; and it will 
not be denied, we think, that large assemblages are calculated to generalise 
the manners, the feelings, and the taste of those who compose them. If the 
difference in society in these matters were less, the moral strength and 
happiness of society would be greater. But our pages are open to any 
other view of the subject. 4 


Art. IV. Provincial Horticultural and Florists? Societies. 


TuE Yorkshire Horticultural Society held a meeting, for the first time, in 
the city of York, on July 18th. The meetings of this Society have been 
hitherto held at Leeds ; but it is intended in future to hold four meetings a 
year, two at York, and two at Leeds. We regret that we can only give 
some very short extracts from the copious and well drawn up account of 
the July meeting given in the Yorkshire Gazette. We confess we are equally 
astonished and delighted at the number of useful, rare, and beautiful pro- 
ductions which were exhibited. Among the fruits was a fine specimen of 
the Carica papaya, a fruit nearly allied to the fig, and resembling a quince 
in shape and size: it was from the stove of Lord Grantham at Newby Hall, 
and has been very rarely seen in this country. A specimen of netting, for 
preserving fruit trees from insects and from the effects of frost, was shown 
by Mr. Slater of Yeadon, near Leeds, the manufacturer ; and a plan for 
laying out one hundred acres of ground in plantations and gardens was 
exhibited by Mr. Major, architectural and landscape gardener, of Knows- 
thorpe, near Leeds. The thanks of the Society were given to various gen- 
tlemen, particularly to John Smith, Esq., to Hawksworth Fawkes, Esq., to 
Lord Grantham, to Mr. Horner, and to Messrs. Backhouse. The fruit is 
stated to have been chiefly sent from the West Riding. The meeting was 


110 Provincial Societies. 


held in the Festival Concert Room, and was numerously attended by ladies 
as well as by gentlemen. A high compliment was paid to S. W. Nicoll, Esq., 
an amateur florist, for the taste with which he arranged the colours and 
forms of the numerous and large bouquets and pyramids of flowers which 
decorated the room. 

“ Every one who admires in flowers the beautiful workmanship of nature ; 
every one who desires to improve or to profit by improvements in fruits 
and culinary vegetables, —he who is allowed by fortune the free enjoyment 
of the vegetable riches of nature, and he who with bodily and mental exer- 
cise is employed in rearing them to perfection,—is now called upon to lend 
his aid to the efforts of this Society. 

“ We do feel confident that this appeal will not be made in vain: we 
promise ourselves the pleasure of seeing in our gardens, in our markets, and 
on our tables, abundant proofs of increased knowledge among gardeners, 
and improved taste among their employers. That these sentiments are 
generally acknowledged, is evident from the rapid augmentation of the 
numbers of the Society since the extension of its meetings to York; from 
the zeal manifested by several of the neighbouring gentry in sending fruits 
and flowers and curious plants for the inspection and gratification of the 
meeting ; from the competition of gardeners, and from the large and most 
respectable attendance of visitors.” (Yorkshire Gazette, July 21.) 

The York Florists’ Society held their annual show of Carnations, Picotees, 
and Gooseberries, on July 26th, when numerous prizes were adjudged. The 
competition was unusually great, and the stand of flowers was the best that 
has been seen in York for several years, demonstrating an increasing spirit 
of improvement in theSociety, which, no doubt, will be fully maintained next 
year. The piece of plate given annually by the Society to the winner of 
the greatest number of first stand prizes during the current year, was mooted 
between Mr. William Hardman and Mr. Wilson, who had each won eight ; 
when, the second prizes won by each of the two during the same period 
being taken into calculation, it was adjudged to Mr. Wilson: also, the 
piece of plate allotted to the winner of the greatest number of first prizes 
of geraniums, roses, &c. during the same period, was adjudged to Mr. 
Butler. (York Cour., July 31.) 

The Show of Pinks and Roses, by the same Society, was held on July 5th, 
when twenty-five prizes were awarded to as many individuals. 

The Morpeth Florists’ Societyheld their annual show on the 25th of June: 

The Horticultural Society of Hexham held a meeting on the 23d of June, 
for the exhibition of flowers and vegetables :. and 

The Haworth Society of Florists held their annual show of Ranunculuses 
on the 25th of June. 

_ Numerous prizes were awarded at these different meetings. (Mewcastle 
Cour., July 17.) 

The Liverpool Floral and Horticultural Society held their first meeting in 
the large room of the York Hotel, Williamson Square. The exhibition, the 
first of the kind that ever took place in Liverpool, was most pleasing. The 
display of tulips was fine and extensive. There were many rare and valu- 
able stove and green-house piants. Two leaves of the sable Blackburnia, 
commonly called the great palm, with the fruit and bloom, from the garden 
of John Blackburn, Esq. M.P., of Hale, formed part of the exhibition, and 
was greatly admired. For this beautiful present the Society, we believe, 
was indebted to the lady of our venerable county representative. 

[We should be happy to receive the history and description of this plant, 
which was celebrated even in the time of Linnzus, and visited by him when 
in this country.] 

The show-room was handsomely decorated with flowers and ornamental 
shrubs, and had a most delightful appearance. The company who visited 
the exhibition was numerous and highly respectable; and all seemed 


Provincial Societies. 1T1 


pleased with the exhibition which had been submitted to their view. We 
trust that the patronage which the Liverpool Floral and Horticultural So- 
ciety will receive from the wealthy and respectable inhabitants of the town 
and neighbourhood, will be such as to induce its founders to continue their 
exertions to render its periodical shows increasingly interesting. The 
lovers of botany and of horticulture ought, for this purpose, to enrol their 
names as subscribers, in order to raise a fund out of which suitable prizes 
may be offered to individuals who exhibit the finest specimens of tulips, 
auriculas, &c. We hope that, ere long, we shall have to announce the ac- 
cession of along list of subscribers and contributors to the Society. Nearly 
sixty prizes were given away. (Liverpool Albion, June 4.) 
The Lancaster Floral and Horticultural Society held ther Pink and 
Ranunculus Show on June the 27th. Six prizes were given away for pur- 
ple-laced pinks ; six for red-laced; six for black and white; and eight for 
seedlings. Six prizes were given for dark, and dark-purple and red ranun- 
culuses ; six for striped; six for spotted, mottled, or edged; and six for 
selfs. Prizes were also given for fruits, roses, hardy shrubs, and herbaceous 
plants, green-house plants ; for geraniums grown by ladies ; for bouquets 
from the open gardens ; for apple trees in pots; and for lettuces and other 
culinary vegetables. The following are the names of the pinks :— 


Purple laced. Red laced. Black and White. 
. Suwarrow. 1. George the Fourth. 1. Cicero. 
- Mary Ann. 2. Miss Foote. 2. Beauty of Flora. 
. Lustre. 5. Rosaire. 3. Queen of June. 


- Queen of May. 4, Princess Charlotte. 4. Black Railer. 
. Bowes’s Premier. 5. Childwall Beauty. 5. Fancy. 
. Bowes’s Cato. 6. Scott’s Mrs. Scott. 6. Black Baquet. 

The ranunculuses were for the most part without names. (Lancashire 
Gazette, June 50.) 

Preston Flower Show, June 27.— The display of fruit and flowers was 
admirable but the most attractive production in the room seemed to be a 
magnificent dish of strawberries of the Kean’s seedling kind, from the 
garden of Dr. Robinson. The following are the pinks which obtained 
prizes ; — 


Aah ANH - 


Purple laced. Red laced. Black and White. 
1. Cato. 1. Rosaire. 1. Premier. 
2. Mary Ann. 2. Liady Wilson. 2. Black Baquet. 
3. Duchess of Man- 3. George Fourth. 3. Seedling. 
chester. 4, Lady Cobbett. 4. Beauty of Flora. 
4, Ruler. 5. Lancashire Lad. 5. Incomparable. 
5. Rosamond. 6. Seedling. 6. Mére Brune. 


6. Suwarrow. 

The ranunculuses were without names. A variety of prizes were given 
for roses, green-house plants, hardy plants, grapes, melons, strawberries, 
cherries, cauliflower, lettuce, beans, artichokes, and a blue fig tree, in ripe 
fruit. (Preston Pilot, June 50.) We : 

Herefordshire Horticultural Society, July 31.— The fourth show of this 
Society presented a fine collection of plants and flowers. The stand for 
fruits contained a superb display of gooseberries, many of them of an extra- 
ordinary size, remarkably fine melons, grapes, nectarines, apricots, plums, 
white and red currants, and cherries; on a table there were also excellent 
cucumbers, onions, and carrots. ‘The small stand in the centre of the room 
was richly decorated with the choicest emblems of Flora, comprising car- 
nations, picotees, dahlias, &c. The flower of Cactus speciosissimus, and a 
Magnolia grandiflora, from Garnons, were greatly admired, as also a Nérium 
spléndens, from the green-house of T. Lane, Esq., and several others. Upon 


112 Provincial Societies. 


the whole, the show both of fruits and flowers was excellent, and there was 
a full and highly respectable attendance of company. The following flowers 
obtained premiums ; — 


CaRNATIONS. 
Scarlet Bizarres. 2. Hatfield’s Litclifield Purple Flakes. 
1. Plummer’s Lord Man- Beauty. 1, Frip’s Zamana. 
ners. 3. Dawson’s Duchess of 2. Fletcher’s Lord An- 
2. Name unknown. Devonshire. son. 
3. Gen. Picton. Scarlet Flakes. 3. Hume’s Miss Parcart. 
Crimson Bizarres. 1. Barr’s Waterloo. Rose Flakes. 
1. Yeomanson’s George 2. Sir Francis Burdett. 1. Webb’s Lady Ducie. 
Rex Fourth. 5. Lacey’s Queen. 
PicoTEEs. 
Purple. Red. Yellow. 
1. Glover’s Beef Axe. 1. Seedling, Sir J.G. 1. Louis dix-huit. 
2. La Cleopatra. Cotterell. 


Prizes were also given for cockscombs, green-house plants, dahlias, hardy 
plants, grapes, melons, apricots, nectarines, gooseberries, onions, cucumbers, 
and carrots. (JZereford Journal, Aug. 1.) 

The Windsor Florists’ Society held their usual Flower and Gooseberry 
Shows, which were fully attended, both by local and stranger friends and 
amateurs. The taste for gardening is much on the increase here, and it is 
in contemplation to organise a Windsor Horticultural Society. We regret 
we have not room to print the prospectus which has been issued by 
Mr. Lovegrove and other leading men of the present Florists’ Society. 

The Uxbridge Florists’ Society held their Show of Pinks on the 27th of 
June. It was well attended, and a number of prizes given away. 

Ross Horticultural Society, July 25.——The grand stand contained 344 
feet of stage room most tastefully filled with a miscellaneous assortment from 
the house and open garden, and the whole formed an extraordinary dis- 
play of the most varied colours and foliage. The stage for prize flowers 
was covered with the choicest carnations, picotees, and dahlias. The bal- 
sams and cockscombs were fine, and added much to the general effect. 
The grapes produced by Mr. Hilton, Colonel Money’s gardener, exceeded 
any previously shown. This meeting was attended by 240 subscribers and 
their friends, and in the evening by about 150 other persons, so that 
this interesting show was witnessed by at least 400 persons. ‘The sale of 
specimens not removed produced 3/. 15s. 6d. The number of specimens 
ticketed and entered in the Society’s book amounted to 799. The carna- 
tions which obtained prizes were as under :— 

Scarlet Bizarres. 1. \Wood’s Commander; 2. Smalley’s Foxhunter ; 
3. Lord Byron; 4. Prince William Henry; 5. Turner’s John Bull. © 

Crimson Bizarres. 1. Pyke’s Eminent; 2. Marquis of Wellesley ; 
3. Cartwright’s Rainbow; 4. Cope’s Suwarrow ; 5. Beauty of Bailey. 

Scarlet Flakes. 1. Queen of the Universe; 2. Sir John Boughey ; 
3. Earl Moira; 4. Madam Mara; 5. Barr’s Waterloo. 

Purple Flakes. 1. Butt’s Rodney; 2. Pope’s Defiance; 3. Brooke’s 
Bristolian ; 4. Bates’s Wellington; 5. Dixon’s Fame. 

Rose Flakes. 1. Webb’s Lady Ducie; 2. Redfern’s Miss Ward; 
3. Staffordshire Lass; 4. Metcalf’s Miss Landers; 5. Barr’s Rose Flake. 

Purple Picotees. 1. Lee’s Cleopatra; 2. Wollard’s Queen; 3. Beauty 
of Bailey; 4. Salamander; 5. Lady Sandwich. 

Red Picotees. 1. La Beauté Parfaite; 2. Will Stukely ; 5. Hogg’s Ellen ; 
4. Pearson’s Maria; 5. Duchess of Beaufort. 

Dark double Dahlias. 1. George the Fourth; 2. Superbissima; 5. Su- 
perba; 4. Sans Rival. 

Light double Dahlas. 1. Camellia-flora ; 2. Quilled Lilac. 


Provincial Societies. 113 


’ Prizes were also given for balsams, cockscombs, stove or green-house 
plants, hardy plants, and for the following gooseberries : — 

Red. 1. Crown Bob; 2. Printer; 3. Alcock’s King Richard; 4. Rifle- 
man; 5. Brundit’s Jolly Gardener. 

Green. 1. Greenwood’s Green; 2. Surrel’s Green; 3. Woodward’s 
Whitesmith ; 4. Blakeley’s Green Chisel; 5. Green Ocean. 

Yellow. 1. Golden Chain; 2. Gorton’s Viper; 3. Cheshire Lass ; 
4, Lomax’s Victory; 5. Robinson’s Stump. 

Grapes. 1. Saint Peter; 2. Black Amber; 3. Muscat of Alexandria ; 
4. Old Sweetwater; 5. New Sweetwater. 

Melons. 1. Ionian; 2. Green Cantaloup. (Hereford Jour., Aug. 1.) 

Mr. Hogg’s Show of Pinks and Carnations, at Paddington, was as brilliant 
and various as on any former occasion. Many new sorts have been added, 
from abroad, or from seedlings raised by Mr. Hogg. The following is a 
select list of pinks, all of which we can affirm to be of very great beauty :— 


Aiton’s George the Fourth, Hoare’s Woodland Beauty. 
Bray’s Invincible. Humber’s Regulator. 
Barratt’s Conqueror. Knight’s Lady Auckland. 
Barnard’s Bexley Hero. Keen’s Wellington. 
Cooper’s Cupid. Pottecary’s Eclipse. 

Clarke’s Adonis. Steven’s Waterloo. 
Cheese’s Miss Cheese. Steven’s Harefield Hero. 
Cheese’s Champion. Pittman’s High Admiral. 
Corbett’s Leopold. Pittman’s Regulator. 
Curzon’s Somerset Hero. Pittman’s Leonidas. 

Dakin’s Burdett. Troup’s Matchless. 

Dry’s Earl of Uxbridge. Turner’s George the Fourth. 
Dry’s No. 2. Turner’s Wiltshire Hero, 
Davey’s Britannia. Westlake’s Hero. 

Davey’s Roi de Pourpre. Westlake’s Heroine. 
Davey’s Lady Shannon. -Westlake’s Receiver General. 
Davey’s Venus. Wright’s Lady Craven. 
Greenwood’s Beauty. Willmer’s Eclipse 

Hopkin’s Scare-crow. . Willmer’s John Willmer. 


The new idea for breaking Seedling or Breeder Tulips, “1 cannot, in 
justice to those who have subscribed to the proposal I made, disclose 
publicly at present. I am sorry it has subjected you to so much animadver- 
sion ; I certainly do not hold myself altogether free from censure, by having 
offered only hearsay evidence, instead of having waited to give direct and 
positive proof; however, if I live till next May, I shall be prepared to do so. 
Why should your Perthshire correspondent show ‘sa muckle wrath ;’ for 
who ever heard of a Scotchman catching the Tulipimania? Does he 
consider this new idea a mere ignis fatuus, a will-o’-the-wisp, broached 
merely to hoax ‘the cullers of simples?’ I hope I shall be enabled to 
convince him as well as others, that the scheme is rational, and the success 
certain.” —T. Hogg. July 25. 

Gooseberry Show at Newark, July 26.— The prizes were adjudged by 
Mr. T. Capain, who very kindly officiated upon the occasion. It may be 
right to premise that the show is instituted for the sake of the gardeners 
and cottagers of Newark and its vicinity ; and the weight of the berries is no 
mean proof of the horticultural skill of the successful candidates. The 
prizes consist of a copper tea-kettle for the heaviest berry of all colours, 
and one also for the heaviest of each colour, red, yellow, green, and white ; 
and half a pound of tea for the second heaviest berry ; although, to gratify 
the growers, four berries of each sort are “ weighed,” or, to make use of a 


Vou. III.— No. 9. 1 


114 Provincial Societies. 


sporting phrase, “placed.” The zeal and earnestness displayed upon the 
occasion, although in such a comparatively lowly station, were truly grati- 
fying ; and, so long as the cottager is stimulated by the trifling contribution 
of the rich, to employ his leisure hours in the cultivation of his-garden, so 
long will he be virtuous, happy, and true to his country. It is the small 
village of Muskham where these horticulturists principally live, and we 
think that in no one parish of England is there less crime. We have been 
induced to make these remarks as a stimulus to additional exertion upon 
the part of the gentry of Newark as well as of other large towns.—T.. C. H. 
Aug. 8. 

f Lancaster Gooseberry Show, July 28.— Prizes were given for the following 

erries : — ; 

Best Pan. Red, Top Sawyer, 20 dwt. 16 gr.; Yellow, Rockwood, 
20 dwt. 14 gr.; Green, Ocean, 15 dwt. 12 gr.; White, Nailor, 15 dwt. 8 gr. 

Second Pan. Red, Roaring Lion, 19 dwt. 19 gr. ; Yellow, Globe, 16 dwt. 
22 er.; Green, Troubler, 14 dwt. 15 gr.; White, Wellington’s Glory, 
15 dwt. 18 gr. 

Best Berry in any: Class. Huntsman, 20 dwt.1gr. Red, 1. Roaring 
Lion, 19 dwt. 11 gr.; 2. Huntsman, 19 dwt. 7 gr.; 3. Top Sawyer, 18 dwt. 
15 gr.; 4. Overall, 17 dwt. 13 gr.; 5. Sir John, 17 dwt. 6 gr. Yellow, 
1. Rockwood, 16 dwt. 9 gr.; 2. Globe, 16 dwt. 9gr.; 35. Golden Queen, 
15 dwt. 21 er.; 4. Gunner, 15 dwt. 20er.; 5. Sovereign, 15 dwt. 14 gr. 
Green, 1. Favourite, 14 dwt. 22er.3 2. Elijah, 14 dwt. 14¢r.; 5. Peover 
Pecker, 14 dwt. 7 gr.; 4. Ocean, 14dwt. 1gr.; 5. Angler, 14 dwt. 1 gr. 
White, 1. Bonny Lass, 16 dwt.; 2. Governess, 15 dwt. 12 gr.; 3. Thrasher, 
15dwt.9er.; 4. White Lion, 15dwt.; 5. White Eagle, 14 dwt. 20 gr. 
Best Seedling, 12 dwt. 2 gr. 

Lancaster Carnation Show, August 5.—Prizes were given away for the 
following flowers :— 

Scarlet Bizard, Perfection; Pink ditto, Rainbow ; Purple Flake, Henry 
Hunt; Scarlet ditto, Salamander; Pink ditto, Duchess of Devonshire : 
forming the best pan of Carnations. 

The best Carnation of any Class. — Perfection. 

Scarlet Bizards. 1. Perfection; 2. Foxhunter; 3. Lord Bagot; 4. Rising 
Sun; 5. Triumphant; 6. Davey’s Sovereign. 

Pink Bizards. 1. King Alfred; 2. Rambow; 3. Prince Leopold; 4. Mar- 
quess Wellesley; 5. Miss Wilmot; 6. Lee’s Diana. 

Purple Flakes. 1. Major Cartwright; 2. Wood’s Commander ; 3. Broad’s 
Queen Charlotte; 4. Princess Charlotte ;5. Wild’s Mary Anne; 6. Henry 
Hunt. 

Scarlet Flakes. 1. Falkner’s Salamander; 2. Potter’s Champion ; 
3. Madam Mara; 4. Thornicroft’s Blucher; 5. Cartwright’s Commander ; 
6. Rising Sun. 

Pink Flakes. 1. Duchess of Devonshire; 2. Incomparable; 3. Smiling 
Beauty; 4. Rochdale Beauty; 5. Miss Landers; 6. Lady Hood. 

The best Picotee of any Class. Cleopatra. 

Purple Picotees. 1. Cleopatra; ‘2. Ogden’s Mary Anne; 5. Princess 
Charlotte ; 4. Duke Wellington; 5. Lady Bagot ; 6. Pearson’s Eminent. 

Red Picotees. 1. Will Stukely; 2. Childwall Beauty; 3. Nonpareil ; 
4. Incomparable ; 5. England’s Defiance; 6. Pearson’s Maria. 

~The best and second best seedling carnation or picotee, green-house 
plants, hardy plants, fruit, bouquets, pine-apple, vegetable marrow, celery, 
pears, apples. (Lancaster Gazette, Aug. 11.) 


Garden Libraries. 115 


‘Art. V. Garden Libraries. 


MMACKAY’s Clapton Nursery Library, July 20.— The Secretary is de- 
sirous that we should acknowledge his obligation to Mr. Gorrie for a pre- 
sent of his dendrometer, with the following instructions for its use, which 
instructions may be considered as forming an appendix to Mr. Gorrie’s 
paper on the subject. (Vol. II. p. 8.) 

Mr. Gorrie’s Dendrometer. — In constructing a dendrometer, it is neces- 
sary to have the support and quadrant at exact right angles with the 
table, in order to give the diameter on the principle of parallel lines. The 
correctness of the sights in the quadrant may be proved by forming two 
lines intersecting each other at right angles, placing the table on the direc- 
tion of one of these lines, and moving the slider till the sights on the qua- 
drant take the other ; if they are found incorrect they will be easily adjusted 
by placing them so as to take the line. In placing the instrument for 
measuring, the slider must be fifty feet from the tree; and, should the 
tree not be nearly perpendicular, it must be placed opposite that side where 
the top of the bole neither comes near nor recedes from the point of 
observation. In taking the diameter of slanting branches, the table must 
be adjusted, by putting in or out the single leg, so as the side of the support 
or quadrant will be in the same direction as the branch, the motion of the 
slider will then bisect the branch at right across, and give the shortest, or 
true diameter. 

In taking the length of slanting branches it will be necessary to take the 
angle of elevation at the low end of the branch, then elevate the quadrant 
to the apparent height, when it will be found that the sights do not point 
to any part of the branch. The slider, or, if the distance is long, perhaps 
the whole instrument, must be moved in a straight line till the quadrant 
take the part of the branch where the angle is wished to be taken. The 
degree of elevation wili give the perpendicular height ; the space travelled 
over by the slider will form the other angle of the right-angled triangle ; of 
course the hypothenuse length is wanted as the length of the branch. 
Suppose, by the table, the perpendicular height is found to be ten feet, and 
the space travelled over two, then, by the forty-seventh proposition first 
book of Euclid, the square of the hypothenuse of a right-angled triangle is 
equal to the squares of both the other sides: Hence 10 X 10 = 100, and 
and 2 X 2=44 100= 1/104 = 10 feet 12,; or 10 multiplied into itself 
gives 100, and 2 multiplied into itself gives 4, and the sum of both squares 
is 104 feet, the square root of which is 10 feet and 12, of a foot, or } nearly, 
and so on of any deviation more or less from the perpendicular. —A. Gorrie. 
Annat Gardens, June, 1827. 

Toxteth Botanical and Horticultural Library. — At a meeting of some of 
the inhabitants of the neighbourhood of Toxteth Park, held March, 1827, 
it was resolved, — 

ist, That it is desirable to establish a library in Toxteth Park, for the pur- 
pose of enabling those who desire it, to obtain information on the subjects 
of botany, horticulture, and agriculture, at a moderate expense. 

2d, That such library be established, and denominated Toxteth Botanical 
and Horticultural Library. 

A resolution was also passed, adopting rules for the regulation of the 
Society. (Liverpool Mercury, June 1.) 

Our reader's are requested to correct the name, and what is said of this 
library, in Gard. Mag. vol.ii. p. 275., agreeably to the above information. 

Library of the Glasgow Horticultural Society. — We have received a 
copy of the regulations of this library, as agreed on in February, 1827. As 
far as we can judge, they seem very judicious. We are happy to learn that 


it 


116 Garden Libraries. 


the use of the books is not to be limited to the members of the Society, but 
that others may subscribe for the use of them as in the case of public libraries. 

Ayrshire Horticultural Library.— A copy of the regulations, with a 
catalogue of the books forming the library, has been sent us by Mr. M‘Carter, 
the librarian. Subscribers in general pay 10s. entry money, and 2s. per 
quarter, but journeymen gardeners are admitted to all the benefits of the 
institution by merely paying 2s. per quarter in advance. The books, though 
not numerous, are well selected ; the London Horticultural Transactions are 
wanting, but we hope some Ayrshire Fellow of the Horticultural Society 
who sees this will send the institution his copy. We would recommend to 
Ayrshire gentlemen in general, to send donations of any spare books they 
have, on subjects of general utility. This library, and that of the Glasgow 
Society, will find a volume or two which we have addressed to them, at 
Mr. Black’s, bookseller, College Street, Edinburgh, not as of any value, but 
as a mark of our sincere wishes for the prosperity of both libraries. 

Benefit or Friendly Societies. — A valuable paper on the history and 
constitution of societies of this description, by Mr. W. Fraser, has appeared 
in the Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal for July, and is to be continued 
in succeeding numbers. The writer seems to have thoroughly investigated 
the subject, and to have had considerable experience himself as Clerk to 
the Edinburgh Compositors’ Society, instituted in June, 1824, upon the 
principles recommended by the Highland Society of Scotland. Whoever 
has any thing to do with societies for benefiting the condition of the 
labouring classes, will do well to consult these papers, and the tracts of 
Mr. Cleghorn, reviewed in a former Magazine. (vol. ii. p. 521.) 

Reading from a general Library. — W.3., under-gardener in the em- 
ployment of an opulent banker near Nottingham, suggests that, where the 
number of gardeners is too small to establish a garden library, they might 
join together and subscribe to a public library; and that, it such public 
libraries found a demand for gardening and agricultural books, they would 
soon procure them for their readers. His “ generous employer is a sub- 
scriber to the Nottingham Public Library,” and he and his fellow-journey- 
men have only to name the book they want, and it is “ immediately pro- 
cured for them.” W.S. further suggests that, instead of recommending 
gardeners to employ every moment of their time in reading, and to have no 
pleasures, more would be gained by allowing a small portion of every 
evening for relaxation of some sort, which would be looked forward to 
during the hours both of labour and study, as the enjoyment-time, and 
would keep up the spirits, and redouble exertion. He recommends, for 
the more ambitious young gardener, half an hour before going to bed, to 
the flute, the violin, singing, or dancing ; and he uses various arguments to 
show the advantages of devoting a part of the evening to female society. 

Religious Books. — Ignota has sent us a list, which may be obtained of the 
Agent of the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge, No. 21. Fleet 
Street, London. We do not print this list, because, as it is chiefly caleu- 
lated for Christians of the Church of England (Ignota being “ unacquainted 
with the excellent books of the Scotch Presbyterian Church)” to be 
consistent, we ought to publish lists suited to every class of Christians, 
which would occupy too much room. We are, however, most sincerely 
obliged to Ignota. 

Dr. Brewster's System of Popular and Practical Science, and Arnott’s 
Physical Science, are works that we would strongly recommend for Garden 
Libraries. It is gratifying to hear a profound philosopher like Dr. Brewster 
stating it as his opinion, “‘ that many departments of science, which have 
been hitherto deemed beyond the reach of ordinary capacities, may be 
made perfectly clear and intelligible.’ (Ed. Jour., July, 1827, p. 193.) 


Answers to Queries, and Queries. iid 


Arr. VI. Axswers to Queries, and Queries. 


PROTECTING Peas from Mice.—Peas sown in November are almost sure 
to suffer from the depredations of mice, as the peas lie so long dormant 
in the ground before they vegetate. .Can you inform me of the best 
remedy ?—A. G. Lynn, May 1. 

The plan adopted to prevent their attacks is, when the peas are sown in 
rows in the usual way, ‘a quantity of furze is cut small with a billhook, and 
the peas are perfectly covered with the furze. The earth is then drawn 
over the furze, which proves a safe protection to the pea, and by no means 
injurious, but rather promotes vegetation. My father has practised the 
above method for upwards of ten years, and has never failed to protect his 
early crops of peas from the mice. — James Brown, jun. Stowe, near Buck- 
ingham. 

Prices of Plants, and where they may be procured.— Several corre- 
spondents (C. of Manchester, R. of Liverpool, Y. of Yarmouth, and R.S. of 
Aberdeen, &c.) ask where new things figured in the Botanical Periodicals 
are to be purchased, complain that they often write for them and cannot 
procure them, and ask whether we could not give a list with every Number, 
or with every fourth Number, so as to be bound up with the volume, of the 
London prices of plants and seeds. In respect to plants newly figured in the 
Botanical Magazine and Botanical Register, most of these being rare, and 
probably in some private collection, are not to be procured in the nurseries. 
They are to be obtained onlyfrom private gardens, through private friend- 
ship ; from the Horticultural Society through subscribers to the garden ; and 
from Kew Gardens, through very particular interest, or through foreigners. 
In general, any amateur or cultivator, however remotely situated, may 
obtain whatever is purchasable in Great Britain or on the Continent, by 
applying to the nearest respectable nurseryman ; who will procure it for him 
through his London agent, in the same way as any book published in 
London or Paris may be had through any bookseller in any part*of Great 
Britain. It would, indeed, be absurd to suppose that the same general 
principles of commercial intercourse did not apply to the commerce of 
plants and seeds, as well as to every other commerce. 

While we state this, we may add that desiderata for completing collec- 
tions of particular families, such as the Zridéze wanted by D.F., are very 
proper subjects for the Gardener’s Magazine; and we also think with Mr. 
Arnott of Perth, that it would tend to promote the progress of botany and 
gardening, if we could give annual lists, to be bound up with the index to 
each volume, of the London prices. We believe, also, that it would be 
worth while for the London nurserymen and florists to circulate such lists 
through the medium of the Magazine ; but, if they are so blind as not to see 
this, so much the worse for them. 

Grapes and Wine-making.—Can any of your correspondents inform me 
_what are the proper kinds of grapes of which to make wine similar to 

foreign wine, also the process of making it, and what is the produce of 
juice from a given quantity of fruit? I am aware that this subject hardly 
appears legitimate as to your general objects, but Speechly in his Treatise 
on the Vine, end other horticultural writers, enter fully on the subject, 
though I cannot find the information I require—J. M. April. 

Dr. Maculloch’s Treatise on Wine-making will supply the information 
required by our correspondent. — Cond. 

mS 


118 Answers to Querics, and Queries. 


Downton Castle and Gardens.— Could you, or any of your readers, give 
me some account of the grounds and gardens of the distinguished president 
of the Horticultural Society? Of the picturesque beauty of Downton, I 
have formed a high opinion from Mr. Knight’s poem, The Landscape, and 
your Encyclopedia ; but I have read nothing of the kitchen-garden, and 
am very curious to know how it is cultivated; whether Mr. Knight’s 
practice is as good as his theories are correct and plausible ; or whether, like 
most other writers, he excels only in that character. What makes me the 
more anxious on this head is, some remarks on Mr. Knight’s theories, and 
on his practice, which I lately heard made by a distinguished vegetable phy- 
siologist and botanist in the Jardin des Plantes in Paris, in company with 
an eminent English botanist, lately and for some time resident there.— 
S.T.P. May 16. 


We visited Downton in 1804, and again in 1809, and can bear testi- 
mony to the grandeur and picturesque beauty of its scenery; but it had 
not then become the scene of horticultural experiment. We understand 
Mr. Knight keeps no regular gardener, and, if so, it is not very likely his 
garden will -be in very high keeping; it may, however, bear good crops, 
and it unquestionably is a scene of great interest. We shall, therefore, 
feel obliged to any reader who has lately been there, or who lives in that 
neighbourhood, and sees Downton gardens occasionally, to comply with 
the wishes of our correspondent. — Cond. 


The turnips I transplant are the common, not the Swedish. You ask, 
“* But do they bulb freely ?”” I answer, in my own words, “ Nothing can 
succeed better, or produce finer roots.”—Rusticus in Urbe. 


Rare Species of Iris, § ce, — Where can the following species of Iris, &c- 
be purchased, and at what price? —D.F. Edinburgh, May 18. 1827. 


1. Iris arenaria of Bot. Reg. 9. Iris longispatha, Bot. Mag. 
2. ——flavissima of Jacquin’s 10. —— ventricosa. 
Icones, 220. 11. —~ sub-biflora, Bot. Mag. 
5. —- brachyctspis of Bot. Mag. 12. —— Nepalénsis, Donn’s Prod. 
vol. xlix. 15. —— reticulata. 
4, —- Ruthénica var.of Bot. Mag. 14. —- Monniérit, Decandolle. 
vol. xxviii. 15. —- amena, Redouté, Lil. 
5. —— Bohémica. 16. Hemerocallis disticha, Bot. Reg. 
6. —-— Caucasica, 17. Tulipapre‘cox . 
7, —- Ibérica. eg mI } Succ, eae 
8. —-— lutéscens. 


Application of Steam to Forcing-houses.—1. Is it necessary or expe- 
dient that houses heated by steam should also be furnished with common 
fire-flues ? 

2. What is the absolute expense of fitting up a house (such as would re- 
quire two common flues) with steam apparatus ? 

5. What is the comparative expense of fitting up steam apparatus and 
fire-flues ? 

4. Is there any saving of fuel when steam is used ? 

5. Supposing the original expense of the steam apparatus the greater, 
does the saving of fuel compensate the increased interest of the outlay ? 

6. Is there any saving of time in the case of steam apparatus ? 

7. For what length of time can the boiler be left to itself in very severe 
weather ? 

Simple as the above queries may probably appear to some, answers to 
them from men of experience would be of very considerable interest to me, 
and probably to many other of your readers. — N. Edinburgh, April 2. 


Answers to Queries, and Queries. 119 


I wish to burst the double yellow rose, and apply to you for some 
assistance. For the last three years I have carefully watched a double 
yellow rose on its own roots in my garden; it has had the advantage of 
being placed against a south wall of a hot-house. The first year it pro- 
duced no buds, the second it produced four, and the third twenty-four, but 
I have never had the pleasure of seeing a single blossom burst. As soon as 
the calyx divides, a small insect is seen, which appears to have made the 
bud its habitation, and to have lived upon the petals of the flower. The 
plant has been constantly washed, and it thrives remarkably well. If 
through the medium of your widely circulated Magazine you could suggest 
any plan for destroying the above-mentioned insect, you will confer a great 
obligation upon Yours, &c.—R. N. Southborough Lodge, Bromley, Kent. 

Primula sinénsis.—Some hints on the propagation and culture of this plant 
are wanted by— A Constant Reader, §c. March 10. 


Cutting over young Forest Trees.—Having been engaged in planting 
recently in a very chalky soil, which has been well trenched to the depth 
of eighteen inches, and finding that the trees, excepting those of the fir 
tribe, have in many cases seemed to flourish for the first year, and then 
come nearly to a stand, and so seem disposed to continue, particularly the 
ash, I would beg to ask you whether I am right in wishing to have them 
all cut down? how near the ground it ought to be done? at what time 
of the year ? whether all the sorts ought to be so treated, say oak, ash, 
birch, beech, sycamore, elm, hazel, thorn, &c.? whether it ought to be 
done the first, second, third, fourth, or fifth year after planting? and whether 
it ought to be repeated >— W. Thonville. 


We should feel obliged to Mr. Gorrie if he would send us answers to the 
queries of our correspondent.— Cond. 


The Coffee Bean, “it is generally said, loses its vitality in a few weeks, 
Some years ago, when I resided in Italy, my children used to sow the beans 
which we had in daily use, and they grew freely. I suppose they were im- 
portedto Leghorn from Africa, but how old they might be I am not able to 
say. When mentioned this to a gentlemen curious in botanical matters, 
he told me he had raised date and cocoa palms from nuts bought in the 
London shops, but had never tried the Coffee. I should like to know the 
experience of others on the subject.” —C. H.D. March. Since the above 
was in type, we have seen a young Coffee plant raised from one of a hand- 
ful of seeds, taken indiscriminately from a parcel of Mocha Coffee purchased 
in the shops. — Cond. 

Destroying the Green Fly on Peach Trees. —“ Has any correspondent 
tried the effect of Digitalis for this purpose? I procured 4 oz. of tincture of 
Digitalis, which I mixed with about 3 pints of water, and in the evening, 
with a small brush, which I made with soft feathers, I brushed over every 
part of a tree very much infested, with the mixture. Next day the insects 
appeared to be dead ; in two or three days I was convinced they were so ; 
_Ithen took a pot of soft water and washed the tree as clean as I could ; 
it soon after began again to produce fresh wood, and is now at the 
time of my writing this completely filled, with the exception of one small 
branch at bottom, with sound, firm, and healthy wood.— D. F. July, 1826. 

Mildew. —Sir,—You will particularly oblige me, as well as a num- 
ber of your subscribers in this part of the country, by inserting in 
your widely circulated Magazine the following queries, relative to that 
hitherto incurable evil, so troublesome to gardeners, the mildew. Of this 
evil, all gardeners have reason, more or less, to complain; and, as far 
as I know, none have yet found out its radical cure. The questions which 
I now solicit you to publish may, probably, by attracting the attention of 
some of your scientific readers, be the means of eliciting from them some- 

I 4 


120 Answers to Queries, and Queries. 


thing that might lead to that desirable end, and confer an invaluable benefit 
on all those connected with horticultural pursuits : — 

Is mildew a constitutional disease in some genera of plants ? Is it itself a 
vegetable, or is it an insect ? 

It is generally thought that cold wet soils and cold wet seasons, if they 
do not actually produce it, very much promote its growth; but it is a well 
known fact, that mildew is found prevalent in a greater or less degree in 
almost every soil and situation in this country, in hot and dry, as well as 
in cold and wet seasons; and, unless there are different species or varieties 
of it, how is it that in the hottest seasons, and on the driest soils, our culinary 
vegetables, particularly the leguminous and brassica tribes, suffer so much 
by it as often to be entirely destroyed ; while on cold soils and in wet sea- 
sons, mildew on such vegetables seldom appears ? 

It is well known to many gardeners that peach and nectarine trees, 
bearing dark-coloured fruit, as the Royal George, Red Magdalen, Ga- 
lande, &c. peaches, the Red Roman, Newington, and other nectarines, are 
very subject to mildew in almost every soil and situation, while the light 
or pale coloured, as the Noblesse, Montauban, and Vanguard peaches, the 
white, Due de Tello, and other pale-coloured nectarines, are scarcely ever 
affected by it. With roses I have found it the same. Rose trees, bearing 
dark-coloured flowers, are seldom free from mildew, while those which 
bear light-coloured flowers are very little affected by it. 

It may be said that the dark-coloured peaches and nectarines are the 
finest, and require more heat to ripen their wood ; but that, I should sup- 
pose, is hardly correct, for we see that some of the light-coloured peaches 
are latest, and, indeed, scarcely ripen either, their fruit or wood in this 
country in the best seasons: I might instance the Catherine and other 
Clingtone peaches, and the White and other nectarines, both Clingstones 
and Freestones. 

Some are of opinion that mildew is a plant, and its seeds being very 
small are carried about with the wind, and, if those species or varieties of 
plants whose juices are congenial to its nature are more glutinous or more 
pubescent than their neighbours, they are most apt to catch the seeds as 
they fly, and consequently liable to be most affected by it; but, on the 
most minute inspection, I cannot perceive that dark-coloured peach or 
nectarine trees are more glutinous or more pubescent, either in foliage, 
wood, or fruit, than those of a light colour. The dark-coloured roses are 
certainly more pubescent, in the young shoots and leaves, than some of the 
white or blush varieties ; but none of them areso pubescent as the differ- 
ent varieties of the moss rose, which are not so subject to mildew as the 
darker-coloured roses. 

From the above considerations, I would.,beg to submit, Is mildew infec- 
tious ? and, Why are trees, bearing high-coloured fruits or flowers, more 
liable to its attacks than others ? Iam, Sir, &c.—J. Y. Perthshire, June 7. 
1827. 


Fruiting the Pine-apple. —In large collections of pine plants, it fre- 
quently happens that several full-grown plants fail of fruiting in due season, 
while at the same time some of the succession plants show fruit twelve 
months earlier than is desirable, though precisely under the same mode of 
treatment as to soil, air, water, &c. Any information by which the evils 
stated above may be remedied, and the fruiting of pine plants be reduced 
to a greater degree of certainty, will be very acceptable to— A Pine-Grower. 
May 25. 1827. 

Bearbind and Wire-worms. —1I am much troubled with these, and very 
desirous of knowing how I can destroy them.— A Kentish Reader. Bar- 

_frestone, June 50. 1827. 


Retrospective Criticism. 121 


Canker in Auriculas. — Information as to the cause, prevention, and cure 
of this disease is much wanted by— Carolus. Camberwell, July, 1827. 

Plants of Rhéum australe, Ribes (an Arabic word, not Ribus) hybri- 
dum, and the Flat Peach of China are wanted by—J. Y. Yarmouth, 
July 27. 

Has salt ever been applied as a thin top dressing immediately after sowing 
(before the seed-leaves appear), as a preventive to the destructive havoc 
of the Chrysoméla nemorum erata of Marsham, the turnip fleas (they 
certainly leap much oftener than fly), or, as they are generally called, the 
turnip flies ?— Umbratus. May 10. 1827. 


Art. VII. Retrospective Criticism. * 


CHANGING Botanical Names. —Sir,— At vol. ii. p. 422. of your Gardener’s 
Magazine, you have proposed changing the name of Wistéria chinénsis to 
W. Consequana, an alteration which I think not advisable or likely to be 
adopted. Nor is it proper that it should, as certainly every name first pub- 
lished that is not absolutely wrong, or that would not tend to mislead, 
should be adopted. If there is not some such rule to go by, there will be 
no end to the change of names. I am much pleased with Decandolle for 
adopting this plan, in restoring original names instead of those which have 
been in use for a considerable time, and only changing names when several 
plants have been confused under the same name, so that it would be diffi- 
cult to make out the original one. In this case he has adopted W. chinén- 
sis, for the present plant, first published in the Botanical Magazine, rather 
than sinénsis published since in the Botanical Register. Your Chinese friend 
Consequa, I should presume, would also be better pleased with having some 
plant named after him, which had not been already published. I am not 
averse to the dividing genera where it is needful, but I certainly am of opi- 
nion that the original specific names should be always adopted, and that 
generic names should not be changed, except where the genus is divided. 
I therefore agree with Sprengel in his Systema Vegetabilium, Link in his 
Enumeratio Plantarum, and Sweet in his Hortus Britannicus, in adopting 
Bélis of Salisbury for the Pinus lanceolata, instead of Cunninghamia, pro- 
posed by Brown, most probably out of opposition to Salisbury, and not 
from any fear of its ever being confused with Béllis, as he pretends, as that 
is not likely: or, if such is the case, Brown’s genus Caléya must certainly 
be altered to give way to Calea, an old established genus; Dahlia, from 
sounding like Dalea, and many other alterations that I could point out, 
must take place from the same cause. But I am afraid I have been troubling 
you with an uninteresting criticism. Should it attain a place, I shall most 
probably be induced to continue my criticisms occasionally, as I am a friend 
to the science of botany and gardening generally, though so humble an in- 
dividual as—A Female Critic. Kent Road, July 29. 1827. 


We are happy to have called forth the remarks of our female friend, 
and should wish to hear from her frequently. We cannot give up the spe- 
cific name Consequana ; but as it is the first we ever presumed to propose, 
if A F. C. and our other friends will adopt it, we promise never again to 
attempt another botanical alteration, which, as mere horticulturists, we 
acknowledge we are not legitimately entitled to do. — Cond. 

The Warrington Gooseberry, according to Mr. Saul, has been praised by 
us (Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 74.) beyond its merits, as compared with the 
large show gooseberries. To convince us of our error, our indefatigable 


122 Calls at Suburban Gardens. 


correspondent has sent us a box containing specimens of twenty-one large 
sorts, and of Warringtons, all grown in the same garden. The berries 
had so far lost their flavour before arrival, that we could not form a 
correct judgment as to their comparative merits. We certainly have 
hitherto preferred the flavour of the Warrington, Ironmonger, and old 
Rough Red, to that of any red gooseberries we ever tasted ; but this may 
be from our very limited knowledge of the large Lancashire sorts, and, at 
any rate, as an editor, we wish to have no opinion of our own. Mr. Saul 
writes us his opinion, that the Warrington will soon be put out of the 
question, as compared with the show gooseberries ; for those who have be- 
gun to cultivate the latter find them superior, both for every culinary pur- 
pose, and for the dessert. They come much earlier in the spring for tarts, 
and at least ten days earlier than the Warrington; theyare also great bearers. 
“ You. would be surprised to see the quantity and size of some of the berries 
in the gardens near this town. The blackbirds and thrushes are remarkably 
fond of those large berries; they pick off the end of the berry, and then 
scoop out the inside, and leave the husk hanging by the petiole like a bell. 
The birds are caught by placing a steel trap [query, of what descripticn ?] 
on the ground under the largest berry, without any bait. The bird jumps on 
the trap to reach the berry, and is taken. It is expected the show berries 
will be heavier this year than has ever been known. Those I send you 
were gathered at random from my garden, and yet one of them, the green 
favourite, weighed 17 dwts. At the public show here, on the 28th of July, 
the heaviest green berry weighed only 14 dwts. and 22 grains. I do not 
subscribe to this show, because, as it is held at a public-house, I consider it 
has a tendency to encourage drinking.” Mr. Saul recommends the follow- 
ing gooseberries as deserving a place in every garden: — Reds. . Princess 
Royal, Huntsman, Top Sawyer, Fox Hunter. — Yellows. Rockwood, Viper, 
Scorpion. — Greens. Favourite, Troubler. — Whites. | Wellington’s 
Glory, Lion. — For preserving, the Crown Bob. — Lancaster,,Aug. 10. 

The Huntsman Gooseberry is one of the best flavoured of the Reds; at 
the late Windsor Show, several of them weighed more than 1 oz. each ; it 
is a great bearer, free grower, and very hardy.—J. P. B. August 15. 


No fruit improves more by cultivation than the gooseberry ; “you mistake 
in calling the large specimens monstrosities ; allow me to say there are 
many of them remarkably fine, handsomer berries, and of as rich a 
flavour as any of the oldest and most admired small sorts, of which, in fact, 
they are only improved varieties, and they will bear as plentifully, and with 
as great certainty. I presume you will hardly pay the same compliment to 
all the improved sorts of peaches, plums, pears, apples, strawberries, and 
every other horticultural production, on the improvement of which so 
much valuable time has been spent, and which productions of late years 
have been so much increased in size, and so materially benefited in all their 
qualities. In the present age of improvement, I think it may be doubtful 
if it should be applied to carnations, pinks, roses, double dahlias, and other 
florist’s flowers, which are daily increasing in size and beauty, at an immense 
sacrifice of time and labour; yet a botanist may truly call them all mon- 
strosities.” — Suffolciencis. August 4. 1827. 


Art. VIII. Calls at Suburban Gardens. 


GOLDWORTH Nursery, near Woking, Mr. Donald, F.H.S. May 13. 1826.— 
In the neighbourhood of Woking and Chobham there are several nurseries 
which are chiefly devoted to raising articles for the trade; that of Mr. 
Donald is the principal nursery for stocks for fruit trees; but most of the 


Calls at Suburban Gardens. 123 


leading hardy articles are also grown there. The stocks are cherries, crabs, 
Paradise apples, pears, and common, muscle, Brompton, Brussells, white pear, 
and mignonne plums. The Paradise apple and plums are raised from layers, 
and the others from seeds. The laying is not practised in the usual manner, 
but the young shoots laid down in a horizontal position their whole 
length, without being tongued; they are then wholly covered with soil 
to the depth of about two inches, and in that state throw up shoots 
from every bud, which shoots root at their lower ends, and are ready to 
be taken off in the autumn. An immense number of plants are thus ob- 
tained annually from one stool. 

There are some other practices peculiar to the nurseries in this quarter, 
and some also which are peculiar to Mr. Donald. Among the former may 
be mentioned the mode of shading and protecting newly sown pine and 
fir seeds, by covering the beds with small furze, large heath, and similar 
ligneous matter asa mulch. This at once deters birds, excludes excessive 
light, and preserves moisture; as the plants come up the mulch is removed 
by degrees. Of Mr. Donald’s peculiar practices we shall only at present 
mention that of propagating the different varieties of Arbutus Unédo by 
cuttings, a thing not, as far as we know, done in any other nursery. 

In noting down what presented itself in passing through the grounds, we 


begin with a propagating house lately erected. (fig.52.) It stands south and 
north, with a span roof and hol- 3 


low walls (a) on Mr. Silverlock’s 
principle. (Encyc. of Gard., § 
1561.) By means of a boarded. 
roof over the centre path (6), 
the sashes can be pushed up, as 
well as drawn down, which is a 
great advantage in houses of this 
description, both for ventilation 
‘ and working. In this and other 
houses were stools of thirty dif- 
ferent sorts of camélléas, and a large stock of young plants raised from them. 

Standards of Rhododéndron pénticum, and &. catawbiénse were first 
grown by Mr. Donald; and the straw and. light orange azaleas were raised 
by him. There is a large stock of Magnolia tripétala, tall plants; medlars 
are superiorly grown; and also the different species of Clematis; forest 
trees and thorns to a considerable extent. In transplanting the last, the 
plough is used to turn in the earth on the plants, but the trench for bedding 
them on is prepared by the spade. ; 

The planting, and all the operations of culture in this nursery, are per- 
formed with a degree of neatness and precision, which is rare even in those 
of the metropolis: one reason is, that the men employed here are not 
gardeners who have come in to work for a few weeks or months till they 
can get a place, but local labourers who know nothing more of garden- 
ing than the performance of the operations of nursery culture which they 
have been taught, and which they continue to perform year after year, till 
they attain a higher degree of perfection in them than professed gardeners ; 
the soil, which is a light sandy loam, is also highly favourable for nice 
operations ; but the grand reason is, that few masters of nurseries are more 
particular, or have a greater love of neatness and order, than Mr. Donald. 
On a recent addition to his nursery grounds, purchased by Mr. Donald, he 
has built some cottages for his workmen, with holiow walls, in Silverlock’s 
manner, already mentioned; a circumstance which does credit to him as 
a liberal-minded man for adopting a plan so new, and as a man of sense 
for adopting one so decidedly advantageous. 


124. Calls at Suburban Gardens. 


Waterton’s Nursery, near Chobham, May 13. 1826.—This nursery is noted 
for its extensive propagation of American plants, for which it is peculiarly 
adapted, having several acres of natural bog. Some new varieties of 
Azalea and Rhododéndron have been raised here, and we do not sup- 
pose that in any nursery there is such a stock of these and other 
American plants of a large size. The grounds are well sheltered by hedges, 
chiefly of beech, hornbeam, and thorn; some of them are remarkably well 
trained, being not more than a foot broad at the ground, from 10 to 15 
feet high, and only a few inches broad at the top. The display of Azalea 
and Rhododéndron blossoms here about the middle of June must be most 
splendid; but a more particular account of this, and some other nurseries 
in the neighbourhood, we shall defer till a future opportunity. 

Virginia Water, May 14. 1826.—Thisis a large artificial lake, which may 
be considered as a beautiful episode to the general scenery .of Windsor 
Park. It is surrounded by a drive of mown turf, which commands agree- 
able views of the water, and some buildings which are brought in as 
objects. Among the latter are an archway which serves both as a gate 
and a bridge, a boathouse, two prospect towers, and the keeper’s lodges. 
The lake empties itself by a very well constructed cascade, which is best 
seen from the public road. On the lawn before the keeper’s lodge we ob- 
served a hen-coop on a very good 
plan. (fig. 33.) One angle is covered for 
the hen to sit under during rain and at 
nights; the remainder of the roof is 
covered with open work, under which 
the young fowls run about and eat their 
food ; and they are let out or shut in at 
pleasure by small openings in the three 
boards which compose the side of the 
triangle. In the course of the drive round 
the lake, some fine specimens of Italian 
and Weymouth pine occur, and in one 
place groups of the latter have risen from 
self-sown seeds, giving a wild forest cha- 
racter, not unlike what one meets with in Poland. 

Oatlands, Ball Hughes, Esq. May 14. 1826.—The kitchen-garden here is 
capitally managed by Mr. Brown, who, notwithstanding the coldness of the 
season, gathered peas from the open ground so early as the first of May. They 
were of the kind called the nimble Dick, nimble taylor, early May or double 
blossomed frame; an early pea imported from Holland soon after the peace 
of 1814. They were sown on the 12th of November last, and received no 
protection whatever during the winter. The situation of this garden is 
particularly warm, and the soil remarkably light and dry. In Lord 
Tankerville’s garden, not two miles distant, the same sort of pea was sown 
on the same day, but none were fit to gather till after the middle of 
May. Ina pine-stove here vines have been grown for a number of years 
without having been taken out to winter, and have borne good crops every 
year. This is in conformity with M‘Phail’s doctrine and practice, which 
we, thinking the vine and all deciduous trees require a winter, have always 
been in the habit of considering as not to be commended. On expressing 
this to Mr. Brown, he pointed to his own crops, and referred us to Mr. 
Shepherd’s pine and vine houses at Sunbury. Every part of this garden is 
in excellent order. We regret to find that the present proprietor has ex- 
cluded the public from walking in the park. 

St. Anne’s Hill, Mrs. Fox, May 15. 1826.—This is a very interesting and 
beautiful place, both on account of the extensive prospects obtained from 
the house, and the taste for picturesque beauty and rare plants displayed 


3S 


Calls at Suburban Gardens. 125 


by the late Mr. Fox in laying out the grounds. It is most gratifying to 
observe that every part of these is kept in as high order and polished neat- 
ness, as the greatest admirer of garden scenery could wish. We cannot 
enter into a detail of their beauties; those of architectural art and sculp- 
ture, as the temples, covered seats, and antique statues, are easily described 
or copied, and may be reproduced anywhere by wealth; but to depict or 
imitate the disposition of the trees and shrubs, requires a degree of taste 
and talent much less common than either money or architectural skill. 

Among the trees are some fine cedars. A large one, which we should 
have thought upwards of half a century’s growth, was brought here a 
small plant, by Mrs. Fox in her carriage, from Lee’s Nursery about 350 years 
ago. It isnow upwards of five feet in circumference at the ground’s surface. 
Looking from the house to the distant scenery, the variety of kinds and forms 
of trees in the foreground, their colour, grouping, and connection are parti- 
cularly happy. Not less so isthe manner in which the kitchen-gardenis placed ; 
blended on two sides with the pleasure-ground ; on the opposite two enclosed 
by beech hedges; concealed from the exterior by evergreens ; and the garden 
itself intersected by grass walks. The effect of the latter and the green 
hedges, being so different from that of the broad surfaces of gravel and 
bricks in ordinary gardens, gives a charm to the scene which in the present 
day may be considered as quite original. It is true, indeed, that the enjoy- 
ment of wall fruit is wanting, and there is only one small hot-house ; but to 
have introduced much glass or brick walls would have marred the effect of 
the place when viewed from other places. A proof of this may be seen at 
Cooper’s Hill, where a former proprietor of Kingswood Lodge, a situation in 
many respects similar to St. Anne’s Hill, introduced a red-walled kitchen- 
garden in front of his house, which is, or was some years ago, a harsh and 
disagreeable feature from many parts of the country which lie before it. 

In front of the house, some lozenge-shaped groups of China roses, bor- 
dered by low hedges of ivy, have a particularly good effect. Mr. Tucker, 
the gardener, deserves great commendation for the high order and keep- 
ing of every thing under his charge: he has held the situation 20 years, 
which adds to his value. 

Sunbury Forcing-Garden, Mr. Shepherd, May 15.1826.—This is a small 
garden, almost wholly occupied by hot-houses and pits, in which pine- 
apples and grapes are grown for the market in avery superior manner. 
The most remarkable circumstance as to the grapes is, what we have already 
hinted at, that the vines have been in a state of continued pine-apple heat 
for 50, and some for nearly 40 years, all the while bearing excellent crops. 
The sorts are chiefly the black Hamburgh and Sweetwater, with some Mus- 
cats; but the latter do not thrive well in this garden; in some houses even 
the Sweetwater does not thrive so well as in others; but, in all, the Hamburgh 
grows freely and bears abundantly. Mr. Shepherd’s general practice is, 
to keep his pines at a very low temperature in the autumn, and very high 
in the beginning of summer, the difference between which gives the 
vines a comparative winter ; add to this, that they are chiefly trained over 
the back path, and that, by letting the sashes down during the greater part of 
the day in September, the leaves and shoots are exposed to the direct influ- 
ence of the weather. A sort of winter is in some cases produced, or at least 
prolonged, by training the shoots so close under the roof glass, as even to be 
i contact with it ; that position being, in the winter season, the coldest in 
the house, from the radiation of heat from the exterior surface of the glass. 
Mr. Shepherd strips the leaves off the vines every year, in the end of October, 
or beginning of November, because soon after the latter period the sap begins 
torise. In general, the Sweetwater vine so treated ripens its fruit about the 
beginning of April, and the Hamburghs about a month later. The plants at 
the warmest end of the house, where the flue enters, in some cases ripen 


126 Calls at Suburban Gardens. 


their fruit a month earlier than those at the cold end ; and the vines in the 
succession pineries are, of course, much later than those which are ripening 
fruit. By this means a succession of grapes is obtained from April to July. 
There are now in these houses ripe Sweetwaters and Hamburghs, and Ham- 
burghs and Muscats not larger than radish seeds. The stems of most of 
the plants are within the houses, in general in the back path, and the vines 
trained under the glass over that path; but sometimes they are planted in 
front, and trained under the rafters. In the latter case the roots extend 
into a front border; inthe former they extend under the tanpit, and into 
a border behind the back wall. The borders are never dug, but every year 
a coating of about a foot in thickness, of half-rotten dung, is spread over 
them, to keep out the frost in winter and drought in summer, and to 
nourish the roots, and encourage them to come to the surface. On ex- 
amining this dung, the fibrous roots are found occupying the surface of the 
soil, and rising into the decayed part of the dung. 

Vaurhall Nursery, 17th April—Messrs. Chandler and Buckingham have 
been famous for their collection of Camellias for several years. The blow is 
now rather on the decline ; but still there are many fine specimens, the 
glass being covered with mats during sunshine to prolong the bloom. 
Several varieties of waratah, blush, single white, the myrtle-leaved, and 
sasanqua are veryfine. In aseparate house are the new sorts raised from seed 
in this nursery, including those figured in Caméllia Britannica, a work 
which we have elsewhere noticed (Vol. I. p.517),and some others which have 
not yet received names. There are various other very fine and showy plants 
here. Many of the green-house shrubs of the season are in luxuriant 
blossom. Azalea indica alba, Paonia mottan vars. rosea and papaveracea, 
Rhododéndron fragrans, Prostranthera violacea, Amaryllis Johnson, Erica 
nigrétta, are a few of the names. This nursery contains a large stock of 
PeOnia papaveracea and moztan, Magnolia conspicua, and Pyrus japonica. 
The first of these plants is not to be purchased under five guineas. Messrs. 
Chandler and Buckingham commenced with a score of them, when they were 
at a much higher price, about seven years ago; and must therefore have a 
very considerable capital employed on this particular plant. That it should 
be worth a tradesman’s while to do such a thing, isa gratifying proof of the 
immense riches and botanical taste of this country. 

Gibbs’s Nursery, Old Brompton, April 18.—We called here, expecting 
the pleasure of viewing Mr. Gibbs’s collection of hybrid cowslips, the most 
extensive that probably was ever formed. Unfortunately, last winter’s frost 
has destroyed every plant of the collection in this nursery; but in Mr. Gibbs’s 
grounds at Ampthill there are duplicates of most of the sorts, which have 
survived. ‘These hybrids were arranged in four divisions; oxslip cowslips, 
polyanthus cowslips, primrose cowslips, and auricula cowslips; and the 
varieties under each division were numerous, and.very beautiful: we be- 
lieve Mr. Gibbs was the first that ever originated such varieties. A very 
fine bloom of apple trees is now expanding in this nursery; there are up- 
wards of 400 sorts, which have been proved, and of which the proof trees 
remain, as specimens, and for the purpose of supplying grafts. The blossom 
of one tree struck us as being remarkably large and beautiful: we were 
informed it was the Scarlet Perfume, an apple of first-rate merit, very odori- 
ferous, and of the highest flavour. Mr. Gibbs has proved most of his apples 
by grafting them on other free-growing apple trees of three or four years’ 
growth: he generally puts three or four sorts upon a tree, forming so many 
boughs, and distinguishing each by a number stamped on lead, and suspended 
by copper wire. Several of Mr. Braddick’s new Flemish pears are coming 
into blossom here; and some sorts have already been proved. The leading 
features of this nursery are fruit trees, and the original grass garden, from 
which it is said the idea of the one at Woburn Abbey was taken. 


Biography. 127 


- Art. 1X. Brography. 


Some Account of Richard Richardson, Esq. M.D. F.R.S. Sc. 


Tuts celebrated naturalist was born at North Bierly, the residence of 
his ancestors, near Bradford, in Yorkshire, in 1663, being baptised on the 
24th of September in that year. He cultivated, at an early age, with his 
own hands, all the exotic as well as rarer indigenous plants he could find 
in his neighbourhood, disposing them, while yet a boy, as I was informed 
by his son, according to what he then thought their natural affinities, 
especially the orchideze, umbelliferee, and cruciferae, of which I saw a great 
many still thriving there, long after his death, in 1776. 

Possessing a handsome estate, and devoid of all that ambition which 
stimulates many country gentlemen to preside on a bench of magistrates, he 
studied and practised medicine, rather from a wish to alleviate the suffer- 
ings of his neighbours and friends than to enrich himself; and, when, in 
maturer age, his great sagacity in discovering the cause of most diseases 
was aided by having experienced the best modes of curing them, he was 
frequently called to a great distance, throughout his own and the adjoining 
counties; on these occasions, if the patient was not opulent, he only 
would take such a fee as to repay the expense of his journey, which was 
generally made on horseback. 

At what period he first visited the Continent I cannot learn; but his son 
told me that a plant of Cycas circinalis of Linné’s Sp. Pl. ed. 2., and Hort. 
Cliff, was sent to North Bierly, in 1702, fron Leyden, where, I suspect, 
he had graduated ; and that plant, when I saw it in 1776, had acquired 
a stem three feet in height. 

To this species of Cycas, in a work which has long been ready for the 
press, I shall restore Herman’s original name of Japonica, expressing the 
eastern boundary of the genus, and which, instead of misleading, will be 
useful to our gardeners ; for most Japanese plants endure a great degree of 
cold in winter, if they have sufficient heat in summer. This grows wild 
abundantly in the islands of Lequeo and Kinsin, and is much more hardy 
than two other species, now confounded under the same name: 1. Cycas 
circinalis of Petit-Thouars, which is indigenous in thé islands of Madagas- 
car, Java, and Amboyna; 2dly, Cycas circinalis of Linné’s Mantissa, and 
Fl. Zeylanica, which is the true Todda pdnna of Rheede, and probably con- 
fined to the Mysore range of mountains. 

Little more is known of Dr. Richard Richardson, at this distance of time, 
even by his son, and immediate heiress Miss Currer, than that the mildness 
of his disposition, elegance of language, and liberality in communicating his 
deep knowledge to the various scientific men with whom he became ac- 
quainted, soon endeared him to them all, and he was elected into the 
Royal Society in 1712. How accurately he distinguished both the crypto- 
gamous and phenogamous vegetables of Great Britain will remain proved 
to ages by the third edition of Ray’s Synopsis. 

The green-house at North Bierly was, like most of that period, covered 
by a slated roof, and only glazed in front; but the stove had partly a double 
roof of glass, and this must have been erected before the commencement 
of the 17th century; for I saw a memorandum in one of Dr. Richardson’s 
books, that he had sent a pine-apple, weighing 5lb. and 1 oz. on the autumnal 
equinox of 1698, to his friend and most skilful botanist Mr. Ray, then con- 
fined with a bad leg. : 

I believe he never published any work, except the following dissert- 
ations :— 

On Subterraneous Trees, &c.: Phil. Trans., vol. xix. p. 526. Observa- 
tions on a Boy who lived to seventeen years of age without any Secre- 


128 | Biography. 


tion of Urine; on the Trout of the Welsh Lakes; on the Eraine; the 
Nut-Hatch, the Régulus cristatus, and the Hélix pomatia: Phil. Trans., 
vol. xxviil. p. 167. A Relationofa Waterspout in Lancashire : Phil. T’rans., 
vol. xxx. p.1097. On the Squilla A‘que Dulcis, destroying the young 
Fry of Carp and Tench: Phil. Trans., vol. xxxviil. p. 3551. 

A plant belonging to the extensive natural class of Rubiaceze was named 
Richardson, after him, by Houstoun, and adopted by Linné ; but if that be 
really sui generis, it will now be necessary to particularise it with the title 
of Richardsona; for Kruitz has lately named Calla ethidpica of Linné 
after the excellent French carpologist, with stricter propriety, Richardia. 

Our celebrated countryman lived to the age of 77 years and 7 months, 
dying on the 21st of April, 1741. A bust, which would not disgrace 
Chantry’s chisel, is placed on a simple monument at the head of his grave, 
in tne chancel of New Chapel, near Cleck Heaton, with the following 
epitaph :— 

M.S. 
Ricuarpr Ricuarpson, M.D. F.R.S. 

Rerum naturas investigando, veterum monumenta perscrutando, apprime 
sciens, ille artem medicam, summa cum felicitate, summa etiam liberalitate, 
exercuit ; mitis animi candore, singulari morum suavitate, spectatissimus. 
Vixit annos 77. Decessit, A.C. 1741. (Com. by R. A. S., Hsq., April, 1826.) | 


Gilbert Slater, E'sq., late of Low-Layton, Essex. 


This gentleman, who died in 1794, was, from his earliest years, pas- 
sionately fond of plants; and was not less respected for his amenity, libe- 
rality, and every characteristic of a gentleman, for his opulence and 
honour as an English merchant, than for his enthusiasm as a botanical 
collector. His gardens, and their extensive buildings, were the dépot 
of every thing valuable, curious, and rare. He spared no expense in pro- 
curing and cultivating an extensive and well-collected assortment of 
exotics ; and, being all his life connected with East India commerce and 
shipping, was indefatigable in procuring from them the vegetable beauties 
described in the writings of Keempfer, Thunberg, and Du Halde. He wrote 
and printed lists and directions for collecting and transporting seeds and 
plants, which he distributed among his friends in the China trade ; and, 
though year after year disappointed in only receiving what he had had 
ten times before, yet he persisted in his endeavours, and, by unceasing ex- 
pense, still hoped to possess the beautiful magnolias, the camellias, the 
pzonies, and azaleas of China. For this purpose, he sent out in his own 
ships three young gardeners (two of whom never returned) at different 
times ; and, had he lived but a few months longer, he would have had the 
long wished for gratification of finding himself possessed of many of those 
plants which he had so long desired to see, and which have been, and now 
are, the most splendid ornaments of our gardens. 

In his lifetime he had great pleasure in introducing several plants, which 
are still great favourites, viz. the Hydrangea, Rosa semperflorens, Volka- 
meéria indica, Magnolia pumila (or night-smelling), and various others of less 
beauty ; and, notwithstanding many Chinese plants are now introduced 
which Mr. Slater never had any description of, yet several contained in his 
list are still strangers; and, should any other new genus be obtained from 
that source (the field of Mr. Slater’s exertions), it would be but a consistent 
act in Decandolle or Mr. Brown, to perpetuate a name which has so fair a 
claim upon their consideration. 

The above memoir is sent to the Gardener’s Magazine by one who is 
desirous of giving it publicity, from a dutiful impulse of grateful remem- 
brance due to the respected memory of a kind and generous master. —J. M. 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
NOVEMBER, 1827. 


PART I. 
ORIGINAL CORRESPONDENCE. 


Art. I. Outlines of Horticultural Chemistry, c. By G. W. 
Jounson, Hsq. of Great Totham, Essex. 


[y the following attempt to illustrate the practice of horti- 
culture, by demonstrating its scientific principles, and thereby 
holding out guides for future improvement, I am not at all 
prompted by the conviction that any arrangement of mine will 
produce splendid illumination, or that I have facts and views to 
adduce that will astonish by their novelty, or be powerfully 
beneficial by their importance: my humbler object is to com- 
bine known facts, and known scientific principles ; to trace the 
regular procession from cause to effect; to represent horti- 
culture as it is, a compound of science and art; to afford a 
theory to every practice, which by rendering practices rational 
makes them more impressive on the memory, and facilitates 
their improvement. 

It is certain that a horticulturist should have a knowledge 
of botany, systematic and physiological ; otherwise he will be 
unable to understand terms and observations that must occur 
in every well written work on his art, to comprehend the 
nature and habits of the objects of his culture, or to render 
observations he may make intelligible to others, if even to 
himself. Chemistry is of as much, if not greater, importance 
to him; and to this science, as illustrative of horticulture, 
I shall chiefly confine my attention. Without a knowledge 
of it, many of the gardener’s simplest operations must be un- 
intelligible to himself, and consequently be casually performed ; 
he knows nothing of them but what he has learned by rote, or 

Vou. ITT. — No. 10. K 


130 Horticultural Chemistry. 


stumbled upon by chance. As evidence of what can be 
effected by a combination of chemical and practical know- 
ledge in the cultivation of the soil, we may quote the example 
of Lavoisier. He cultivated two hundred and forty acres in 
La Vendée, actuated by the beneficent desire of demonstrating 
to his countrymen the importance of sustaining the art of cul- 
tivation on scientific principles. In nine years his produce 
was doubled, and his crops afforded one third more than those 
of ordinary cultivators. It would be as supererogatory to 
dwell upon the importance of this improvement, as it is to 
dilate upon the distinguished station which horticulture main- 
tains among the arts of life. A garden was the first habit- 
ation of man; it has ever since been a source of his purest 
pleasures, of his most healthful employment and sustenance. 
We ought to hail, with well founded satisfaction, the gigantic 
strides which the art has made in the march of improvement 
during late years. 

The political economist may view its improved diffusion 
among the poorer class, as an earnest or means of more 
important benefits. ‘The labourer who possesses and delights 
in the valuable appendage of a garden to his cottage, is 
generally among the most decent of his companions; he is 
seldom a frequenter of the alehouse: and there are few among 
them so senseless as not readily to engage in its cultivation, 
when convinced of the comforts and gain derivable from it. 
When the peasantry of a state are happy and contented, the 
abettors of anarchy will cabal for the destruction of its social 
order in vain; for they will have first to efface the strongest of 
all human associations, home and its hallowed accompani- 
ments, before the rustic will assist in the tearing of them from 
others, in the struggle to effect which he has nothing definite 
to gain, and all these flowers of life to lose. Of the taste for 
horticulture, so diffused among the higher orders of society, 
we have only to speak in a strain of commendation. It is 
from persons of cultivated minds, and beneath the fostering 
care of fortune, that improvements can chiefly arise; and no 
pursuit is more worthy of such patronage, “ Nihil est melius,” 
says Cicero, ‘ nihil uberius, nihil homine libero dignius.” 
(Nothing excels, nothing is more profitable, nothing more suit- 
able for aman of leisure.) Many theoretical speculations must 
be demonstrated to be futile, many experiments will fail of the 
desired object, in the progress of investigation ; but one happy 
result confers a benefit on mankind through remotest ages, 
every failure serves as a beacon for future travellers. 


Horticultural Chemistry. 131 


The subject of the present paper is the root of plants, its 
offices, the mediums in which it grows, the nourishment it 
obtains to its parent plant, &c.; consequently, it includes the 
consideration of soils, manures, &c. 

The root is present in all cultivated plants. The truffle, 
which, however, can scarcely be considered as belonging to 
cultivated vegetables, having hitherto defied all attempts to 
subjugate it, may be considered as consisting of nothing but 
root. A root is annual, biennial, or perennial. In the two 
former instances, if the individuals to which they belong be 
allowed to perfect their seed, no care can protract their ex- 
istence beyond the ensuing winter, however genial the tem- 
perature, &c., in which they are made to vegetate ; but, if the 
ripening of seed be prevented, it is undetermined how long they 
may in most instances be sustained in life. I have known 
mignonette continued in healthy vegetation for four years 
with this precaution. In all roots, and under any mode of 
management, the fibrous parts (radiculz) are strictly annual; 
they decay as winter approaches, and are produced with the 
returning vigour of their parent in the spring. Hence the 
reason that plants are transplanted with most success during 
the season of their decay: for, as the root almost exclusively 
imbibes nourishment by the mouths of these fibres, in propor- 
tion as they are injured by the removal, so is the plant de- 
prived of the means of support; that sap which is employed 
in the formation of new fibres, would have served to increase 
the size of other parts. The size of the root I have always 
observed to increase with the poverty of the soil in which it 
is growing. Duhamel found the roots of some young oaks 
in a poor soil to be nearly four feet long, though the stem 
was not more than six inches. ‘The cause of this is evident: 
the nourishment which is required for the growth of the 
plant, can only be obtained by an increased wide-extending 
surface of root, and, to form this, more sap is often required 
than the plant, owing to the poverty of the earth, can obtain to 
itself; in that case a scil is sterile, for the plant must evidently 
perish. Every one may have noticed this familiarly in- 
stanced in Poa 4nnua growing on a gravel walk, its stem 
minute, its root a mass of widely extending fibres. A root 
always proceeds in that direction where food is most abun- 
dant ; from a knowledge of this fact, we should be circum- 
spect in our mode of applying manures, according to the crop 
and object we have in view. ‘The soil in my own garden, 
being shallow, never produced a carrot or parsnep of any size ; 
but almost every root consisted of numerous forks thickly 

K 2 


132 Horticultural Chemistry. 


coated with fibres: digging two spades deep produced no mate- 
rial advantage, the gardener applying as usual manure to the 
surface; but, by trenching as before, and turning in a small 
quantity of manure at the bottom, the roots always spindle 
well, grow clean, and have few lateral fibres. For late crops 
of peas, which mildew chiefly from a deficiency of moisture to 
the root, it is an object to keep their radiculze near the surface - 
for the sake of the light depositions of moisture incident 
to their season of growth; hence it will always be found of 
benefit to cover the earth over the rows with a little well 
rotted dung, and to point it lightly in. Plants are very much 
benefited by having oxygen applied to their roots, being 
found to consume more than their own volume of that gas in 
twenty-four hours ; and, when applied by Mr. Hill to the roots 
of melons, hyacinths, &c., the first were found to be improved 
in flavour, the second in beauty, and all in vigour. (Hort. Trans. 
vol. i. p. 233. and Gard. Mag. vol.i. p.232.) Everything, there- 
fore, that promotes the presentation of oxygen to the roots of 
plants must be beneficial : hence we find that frequently stirring 
the ground about them promotes their growth ; for, in propor- 
tion as the soil is loose, can the atmosphere easily penetrate it. 
Moist earth rapidly absorbs oxygen from the atmosphere, as 
Humboldt has demonstrated, but dry soil does not: this affords 
another reason for frequently stirring the earth about plants 
during the droughts of summer; for well pulverised soils ad- 
mit the evening dews, &c., more freely than consolidated ones, 
and consequently dews will be deposited more within their 
texture, and moisture is more firmly retained in such pul- 
verised soils, inasmuch as that they are not so much heated by 
the sun’s rays, being more pervaded by the air, which, like all 
gases, is one of the worst conductors of heat. ‘The decom- 
posing parts of animals and vegetables contained in a soil are 
also highly absorbent of moisture; hence, the more freely the 
air is exposed to them, the more effectually will they be 
enabled to exert this power. By being freely exposed to the 
influence of the air, such substances are more rapidly de- 
composed, which leads to a consideration of the practice of 
exposing soils as much as possible to the action of the at- 
mosphere by ridging, &c. When a soil is tenacious, or 
abounding in stubborn vegetable matters, as in heath lands, it 
cannot be too completely exposed to the action of the air; but, 
to light soils, which are in general deficient in organic decom- 
posing matters, Chemistry would say that ridging is accom- 
panied by evils more injurious than can be compensated by 
the benefits obtained : for such light soils are easily pulverised 


Horticultural Chemistry. fj 133 


whenever occasion requires, are so porous as at all times 
freely to admit the pervasion of the atmosphere; and there- 
fore, by this extra-exposure, the vegetable and animal remains 
are hastened in decomposing, and much of their fertile con- 
stituents evolved in the state of gas, or carried away by the 
rains, &c., without there being any crop upon them to benefit 
by them. ‘Thus Theory argues, and Practice certainly seems 
to support in this instance her doctrines. Switzer, one of our 
horticultural classics, says: “‘ Rich heavy ground cannot well 
be ploughed too often to make it light, and the better manure 
by killing the weeds; as light poor eround cannot be ploughed 
too seldom, for fear of impoverishing it.” (Ichnographia Rus- 
tica, vol.ili. p. 237.) 

We have seen that plants search after and acquire food by 
the agency of their roots; and the extremities of these appear 
to be the chief if not only parts employed in the intro-sus- 
ception of all food not in a gaseous state, for M. Duhamel 
observed that that portion of a soil was soonest exhausted in 
which the greatest number of the extremities of the roots 
were assembled. (Physique des Arbres, vol. iil. p. 276.) This 
explains why the fibrous points of roots are annually renewed, 
and the caudex extended in length; by these means they each 
year shoot forth into a fresh soil, always changing their direc- 
tion to where most food is to be obtained. If the extremity 
of a roct is cut off it ceases to increase in length, but enlarges 
its circle of extension by lateral shoots. It is by their extre- 
mities, then, that roots imbibe food; but the orifices of these 
are so minute, that they can only admit such as is in a state of 
solution. Carbon, reduced to an impalpable powder, being 
insoluble in water, though offered to the roots of several 
plants, mingled with that fluid, has never been observed to be 
absorbed by them; yet it is one of their chief constituents, 
and is readily absorbed in any combination which renders it 
fluid. 

Roots, then, obtain such nourishment to plants from a soil 
as is in a gaseous or liquid state; we may next, therefore, con- 
sider what constituents of soils are capable of being presented 
in such forms. Water can be the only solvent employed ; 
indeed, so essential is this liquid itself that no plant can exist 
where it is entirely absent, and on the other hand many will 
exist with their roots in vessels containing nothing but dis- 
tilled water. Plants with a broad surface of leaves, as mint, 
beans, &c., I have always found increase in carbonaceous mat- 
ter, whilst thus vegetating; but onions, hyacinths, &c., with 
small surfaces of foliage, Las invariably have found to decrease 

K 3 


134 FAforticultural Chemistry. 


in solid matters: the first obtain nourishment by decomposing 
the carbonic acid gas of the atmosphere, the latter do so in a 
much smaller proportion; hence the reason why the latter are 
so much more impoverishing crops than the former, inasmuch 
as that they acquire nearly all their solid matter by means of 
their roots. ‘These observations explain the conflicting state- 
ments of Saussure and Hassenfratz on this point: the former 
experimented with broad-leaved plants, the latter on such as 
have small foliage; the first maintained that plants increase 
in solid content when their roots are supplied with water 
only, the latter denied the fact. It has been advanced that 
water is the sole food of plants; but all experiments are incon- 
clusive which are presented as supporting the theory. In the 
first place, all waters contain earthy, saline, and organic mat- 
ters; even distilled water is not pure, as Sir H. Davy has 
proved, and rain-water Margraaf has demonstrated to be much 
less so. No plants, growing in water only, will ever perfect 
seed ; and the facts, that different plants affect different soils, 
and that a soil will not bear through a series of years the 
same crop, whereas it will a rotation of different ones, demon- 
strate that they each take different kinds of food from the 
earth, and not that universal one, water, which is ever present 
and renewed. 

Silica, or the pure substance of flint, is present in all soils; 
it is soluble in water, requiring one thousand times its weight 
of this liquid to dissolve it (Kirwan’s Mineralogy, vol. i. 
p- 10.); it is found in many plants, and in all the grasses that 
have been analysed. Alumina, or the basis of clay, present 
in all soils, is so soluble in water as to be inseparable by the 
filter, and is much more so when any of the acids are present 
(Sennebier’s Physiolog. Veget., vol. iii. p.18.); it is found in 
plants in minute quantities, especially in the grain of barley, 
oats, wheat, &c. (Schrader in Gehlen’s Journ., vol. ill. p. 525.) 
Lime is found in almost all soils; it is easily soluble in 
water, and there is but one plant which is known to contain 
none of it as a constituent, the Salsdla Soda. (Ann. de Chimie, 
vol. xviii. p. 76.) Magnesia, generally present in soils, is 
soluble in water, and is found in many plants. Iron is pre- 
sent in all soils, in all natural waters, and in all ‘plants. 
Manganese is found in some soils; it is soluble in water con- 
taining acids, &c., and is found in a few plants. But none 
of these, in a state of purity, either simply or combined, have 
ever been found capable of perfecting a plant through all its 
stages of growth, when moistened with distilled water; the 
contrary was the case, however, when the water contained in 


Dairy Cottage, and Poultry-yard. 135 


solution vegetable or animal matters, as the dung of animals. 
Now these matters contain carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, 
nitrogen, and various salts: the three first are absolutely 
necessary for the existence of all plants, every part of these 
is composed of them; nitrogen is found in some plants; 
and the importance of salts to vegetation is demonstrated by 
the facts, that clover will not flourish where there is no sulphate 
of lime, that nettles follow the footsteps of man for the nitrate 
of potass, which always abounds near the walls of his habit- 
ation, and that marine plants linger for the common salt of their 
native haunts. Salts of some kind or other are found in 
every species of plant, but none that have not also been 
detected in soils. During decay, vegetable and animal matters 
exhale various gases. Carbonic acid, hydrogen, carburetted 
hydrogen, ammonia, &c., are of the number; all of which 
have been applied to the roots of plants with great benefit by 
Sir H. Davy and others. 


(To be continued.) 


Art. II. Plan and Elevation of a Dairy Cottage, and Poultry- 
yard, erected by Mr. B. Mathews, at Syndal House, Kent, 
for the late Sir Samuel Auchmuty. Communicated by Mr. 
A. Matuews, A.L.S. 


Sir, 

OBsERVING that you invite architects to send you plans 
and sketches of rural buildings (Gard. Mag., vol. i. p. 353.), 
I take the liberty of enclosing a plan and general view of a 
dairy cottage, and poultry-yard (jigs. 34. to 36.), erected by 


my father, Mr. B. Mathews, for the late Sir Samuel Auchmuty, 

at Syndal House, near Feversham, Kent, and now in the 

possession of John Hyde, Esq., who, I am happy to see, is 

treading the steps of his estimable predecessor, in improving 
K 4 


136 Dairy Cottage, and Poultry-yard, 


his estate, and encouraging and assisting the poor of his 
parish, which, if you think them worth presenting to your 
readers, are much at your service. 

The cottage (jig. 34.) consists of two sitting-rooms (a a), 
a bed-room (6), dairy (c), scalding-house (d), and two covered 
sheds (e e). 

The poultry-yard (jig. 35.) is behind, and contains a pump, 
well, and cistern ( fig. 34.f), a pigeon-house on a post ( fig. 35. 
g), a pond (f), two houses for hens (zz), one for ducks (4), ene 
for geese (/), one for turkeys (m), and one for fatting-coops (7). 


The cow-lodge is at a short distance from the dairy; it is 
surrounded by the plantations, and is now completely hid 
from the view. There is nothing out of the common way in 
its construction. 

The elevation of these poultry-houses (jig. 35.) shows the 
lower part of the front wall of brickwork, and the upper part 
of open latticework, painted green. For the better ventilation 
and health of the fowls, this latticework is left open during 
the summer; but each division is furnished with wooden 


ih 


== 
——— = 
th = 
Mine me 


== 


at Syndal House. if 137 


shutters, attached to the plates inside with hinges, which, 
during the winter nights, and especially frosty weather, are 
kept closed. 

The cottage consists of only the ground-floor; its elevation 
( fig. 36.) is considered handsome. . It stands in a gentle valley 
in the park, about an eighth of a mile from the mansion. The 
spot was chosen, on account of its soil and situation, for a 
new kitchen-garden, which was begun at the same time as the 
cottage. The prospect, though extensive, is not so much so 
as that from the mansion, which is considered one of the 
finest in Kent. ‘The cottage fronts the east, looking over the 
village of Ospringe towards Boughton-under-Blean and 
Hearn Hill, bounded by the Blean woods, of which it takes 
in an extensive range. To the north-east is seen to much 
advantage, though in a valley, the town of Feversham, with 
its handsome spire, and the tops of the houses rising above 
its numerous orchards, in some of which are ancient pear 
trees still in good condition, and producing abundant crops. 
In the distance, and in the same line, may be seen the shores 
of Sea Salter and Whitstable, with part of the Isle of Sheppy, 
called Shellness. 

The centre of the building was furnished for the dairy-man 
and his wife to reside in; the large sitting-room was intended 
as a room in which the family might occasionally drink tea, in 
the summer, and, during Sir Samuel’s life, it was furnished 
with his camp equipage. ‘The left wing ( fig. 34. c), the dairy, 
corresponds in size with the right, but is of a higher pitch 
inside, as the floor is sunk about two feet below the level, and 
paved with square 14-inch tiles. The shelf for the milk-pans 
is made of black slate, supported by brick arches, each arch 
forming a recess for a pan of milk. (fig. 37.) In the space 
between the doors is a small stone a 
trough, supplied with water from the «=> a= 
_ cistern at the well,_by a pipe laid under Sa 4 

ground. In the centre stands a large 4 \,.2 i ce 

table. The two small windows (fig: 34. —————_ 
oo) are blanks, forming niches in the inside, in which are placed 
a bull and acow. In the centre of the angles formed by the arches 
supporting the shelf are fastened small rams’ heads ( fg. 37.), 
which. give the interior of the milk-room an air of neatness and 
taste. The covered shed (jig. 24. ¢), next the dairy, is fitted up 
with racks, in which the milk-pans and other utensils are set 
to drain ; the other shed is fitted up with bins, &c., to keep the 
corn and provisions for the poultry, and is made use of by 
the dairy-man as a cellar to keep his beer, &c., in. As coolness 


138 On preparing and keeping Ice. 


in the summer is essential to a dairy, the wings are neatly 
thatched with a thick coat of reeds ; the centre is slated. 

Previous to commencing the building, my father inspected 
nearly all the dairies of note in Kent, by which he obtained 
much valuable information. ‘The bricks with which the whole 
was built were burned on the spot; and the carpenter’s and 
joiner’s work was executed by the house-carpenter at the 
mansion, under his own superintendence as steward to Sir 
Samuel. I am, Sir, &c. 

AnprREwW MatHews. 

Academy, Turnham Green, March, 1827. 


Art. III. On preparing Ice and filling an Ice-house, so as 
the Ice may keep for Two or Three Years. By Mr. James 
Youne, Gardener to Henry Smith, Esq. of Wilford House, 
Nottinghamshire. 

Sir, 

None of your correspondents having laid before us” the 
proper method of preserving ice, so as it may keep in an 
exposed situation through the hot months of summer, for one, 
two, or more years, as may be required, I now venture to do 
so. Most gardeners who are in the habit of laying up ice 
annually for summer use, complain of its melting away too 
rapidly. This, I presume, is owing to the method they 
practise to preserve it. ‘To remedy this evil, the method 
which I have practised for a considerable number of years, 
with gratifying success, is as follows : — 

In the months of December or January, when the water- 
pools are frozen to a sufficient thickness, say one or two 
inches, proceed to break the ice ‘in pieces, and draw it off 
the water with iron hooks, conveying it to the ice-house in 
carts, as quickly as possible. Before throwing it into the 
house, three or four men should be employed to break it in 
small pieces, about the size of common road-metal. Then 
carry it into the house, where two men should be again 
employed in pounding it almost to powder. Lay the bottom 
and the sides of the house with a layer of wheat-straw, three 
or four inches thick. After there are about two feet of ice 
thus pounded, take ten pounds of salt, and dissolve it in ten 
gallons of boiling water. When the salt is sufficiently dissolved, 
pour it on the ice through a,common garden watering-pot ; 
thus going on regularly every two feet, watering, and laying 


Horticultural Plough. 139 


the sides with straw till the house is filled, finishing with a 
double quantity of the salt water. After it has been in eight 
days, and when it has subsided, fill up closely with: small 
bundles of straw, to exclude all air as far as possible. 

An ice-house filled in this manner will be found, when 
opened in summer, to be as firm as rock, and to require at 
all times the force of a pickaxe to break it up. It will be found 
to keep three times longer than the common method of filling 
ice-houses, and more suitable for being received from the ice- 
house for use, as it will keep three times longer when exposed 
to the air. I was induced to try the above method on account 
of our ice-house being placed in a very exposed situation. 
The sun shines from rising to setting on it, and it was found 
impossible, before adopting this plan, to keep ice above a 
year, and now it keeps three years, and the last of it is as good 


as the first. I remain, Sir, &c. 
Wilford House, Sept. 5. 1827. James YounG. 


Art. IV. Notice of a Horticultural Plough and its Uses. 
By Mr. Wixiiam Gopsatt, Nurseryman and Florist, 
Hereford. 


Sir, 

I raxe the liberty of sending you a description and a rough 
sketch of my Horticultural Plough, as I am not aware that 
any thing of the sort has ever been made use of before. 
Upon “ght land it is, in my opinion, a most desirable imple- 
ment, on account of the facility, dispatch, and neatness of its 
work, compared with that of the hoe. I drill with it for peas, 
beans, French beans, &c., employing it to cover the seeds, 
and also to earth the plants. It will readily be seen that it is 
adapted to drillmg and moulding, or earthing other garden 
crops, particularly where the 
land is unencumbered with 
trees, &c. It is used by one 
man, who, after a little prac- 
tice, will employ it with great 
expedition. It may be made 
with one or two _ handles 
( fig. 38. ab); if only one, it 
should have a cross handle at 
right angles (d). ‘The heel (c) 
consists of a piece of light 


140 Culture of Gloriosa supérba. 


quartering, bevelled at the fore end, on which is screwed 
a piece of curved sheet-iron (d), to turn the furrow, and 
having a sharp edge. ‘There is a small square staple (e), 
through which passes a thin piece of iron three feet long (/) 
with notches on the under side, similar to the fastening of a 
swinging hot-house light; it has feet and inches marked 
thereon, and each end 1s painted white and bent downwards, 
by way of index, to regulate the distance between the drills: 
but this, of course, may be removed in earthing or moulding 
the crops. It will serve in the accompanying sketch (/) 
for a scale to the plough, and render it unnecessary to detail 
its dimensions. 

I hope, at some future time, to send you my method of 
facilitating the planting of ranunculuses, anemones, &c., in 
beds, and remain, — Sir, &c. 

Hereford, May 15. 1827. ‘Wma. Gopsatu. 


Art. V. Culture of the Gloriosa supérba. By Mr. JamEs 
PRINGLE, Gardener to Lewis Charles Daubuz, Esq. ‘Truro, 
Cornwall. 

Sir, 

As none of your numerous correspondents have yet noticed 
the Gloriosa supérba, in their communications published in 
the Gardener’s Magazine, I am induced to send you an 
account of my mode of treatment in flowering that really 
beautiful plant. 

The roots are potted singly in 48-sized pots, about the 
middle of January, in compost, one half loam, one fourth 
leaf-mould, and cne fourth bog-earth. They are then plunged 
in a cucumber bed (heat, from 75° to 80°), where they remain 
until the shoots have grown six or eight inches long. Having 
filled a back corner of a pine pit with compost as above, they 
are turned out of their pots into the mould, disturbing the 
balls as little as possible. 

It is necessary to support the shoots by either tying them 
to tall stakes or to a trellis. I form a temporary trellis along 
the back of the pine pit, to which the shoots are trained 
horizontally. While the pots remain in the frame, they are 
watered sparingly; but, when removed to their destination in 
the pine stove, they have an abundant supply, and the shoots 
are frequently syringed. When the shoots are decayed, they 


Culture of Gloxinia maculata. 14] 


are cut over, and the roots allowed to remain without water 
until they are taken up and potted in January. 

From some plants which I plunged on the 9th of April 
last, the shoots extended the length of nine feet, each shoot 
producing from five to seven finely blown flowers. I have every 
expectation of some of the plants ripening seed this season. 

I am, Sir, &c. 
Truro, August 15. 1827. JAMES PRINGLE. 


Art. VI. Culiure of the Gloxinia maculata. By Mr. Joun 
NerLson, principal Gardener to William Miles, Esq. Clif- 
ton, near Bristol. 

Sir, 

Tue Gloxinza maculata is a most beautifully flowering 
plant, but it is frequently kept for years without blowing; by 
adopting the plan of treatment which I am about to mention, 
it may be flowered every year to great perfection. 

First, I pot them off in the early part of March into pots 
four inches over, in black bog-earth, mixed with a little sand, 
observing to put one plant only in a pot; and, should any 
suckers arise, they should immediately be broken off. Se- 
condly, I bring them forward in the bark-bed or dung- 
frame; as soon as they begin to vegetate, water them freely, 
and, when the pot is filled with fibres, shift them into pots six 
inches over; water them freely for about ten days, then place 
them in pans kept constantly filled with water, still clearing 
off the suckers should any appear. 

By this mode of treatment they will produce flowers from 
two to three feet in height. When they have done flowering 
take them out of the pans of water, place them with your 
other plants, and let them receive the same quantity of water 
as your other plants receive, until the flower stems begin to 
decay, then place them on your dry shelves in the stove till 
the Ist of January, then watering them sparingly until they 
again make their appearance; again pot them off, and treat 
them as before directed. 

I am, Sir, &c. 
, Joun NELSon. 
Clifton, near Bristol, March 16. 1827. 


142 Malacca Fruits. 


Art. VII. Reminiscences of a Visit to Malacca. By Mr. 
James Main. 


Matacca is situated on the straits of that name, on the 
south side of the continent of Asia, opposite the large island 
of Sumatra. It is a considerable town, part of it fortified by 
a high wall and fosse, skirted by a narrow glacis. The 
country is thickly clothed with wood ; the soil is excellent, 
and, if cleared, is fit for the production of spices, sugar, 
rice, indigo, cotton, coffee, maize, and all kinds of tropical 
fruits. 

Various spices are found wild in the woods, particularly 
the nutmeg ; and, though not equal in quality to the nutmegs 
of Ceylon and the Molucca Islands, yet, as an inferior spice, 
they are of great importance in a commercial point of view. 
Of ornamental trees, the -4schynomene grandiflora, the 
Tectona indica, Barringtonza speciosa, many species of 
palms, and particularly the Michélia Champdca (jig. 39.), 
a showy and odoriferous tree, 
give a character of great rich- 
ness to the masses. of wood. 
But the catalogue of fruits tran- 
scends every thing of the kind 
perhaps in India: for, besides, 
the fruits common every where 
in the East, they have the Arto- 7 
carpus integrifolia, Annonas, a3 
and the Carica Papdya, in great S= 
perfection. Of the latter it may 
be remarked that, though in the 
class Dicecia, both male and 
female plants produce fruit, only 
the female tree always bears the 
largest. The fruit weigh about.“ 
two pounds each, may be eaten with sugar as melons, but 
are chiefly used as kitchen fruit. But, of all the delicious 
fruits in India, none can equal in purity and delicacy of pulp, 
richness of flavour, and refreshing coolness of juice, those 
which follow : — 

The Mangosteen, Garcinia Mangostana (jig. 40., full size), 
is here in the highest perfection, growing wild in the woods. 
It is said to be the most salubrious of fruits. ‘The eatable part 


39 4 


Malacca Fruits. 143 


is a transparent pulp surrounding the seeds. The calyx and 
stigma are both permanent till the fruit is ripe. 


— 


Wp 
z= 
= 


SVQ 7 


SS 


There are three other kinds of fruit, probably of the same 
genus, VIZ. 

The Duku (jg. 41.) is an egg-shaped fruit, about the size 
of an apricot, and in flavour little inferior to the mangosteen. 


The Courangi (jig. 42.) is a small fruit common at Ma- 
lacca; the shell is brittle, and encloses one seed, surrounded 
by a spongy melting substance of an agreeable acid flavour, 
like that of the tamarind. 


144 Malacca Fruits. 


RS WN > fi 
Ne, ae \\SS ay y J 
~~ X\ R ¥ \ y 
RS X\ LRN f 
& AY ye OWA i 
NS . 7 
Z SY Hl | 
NF Hy | op 
J Yb XX via Yo 
, EN "/ 
V7 BS i 
Lif % N; 
<I S h 


The most beautiful fruit is the Rambosteen, Nepheélium (bur- 
dock) dappaceum (bur-like). (jig. 44.) It has an echinated 


Z 
SWISS 


hy 
= S 
=) 
AS 


Plan for a Vineyard. 1495 


capsule of a bright scarlet colour, the pulp transparent and 
most delicious, surrounding one seed. 

The four last kinds of fruits were seen in the bazaar, but 
no description of the plants which produced them could be 
obtained. 

These notices are sent to the Gardener’s Magazine, in the 
hope that the fruits may be one day imported and cultivated 
in our stoVes. J. M. 

Chelsea, April, 1827. 


Arr. VIII. A Description of a Method of cultivating the 
Vine, by which it is thought Grapes may be ripened in many 
Parts of England for the Purpose of making Wine. By ¥. 
N. B. 


In the first place, it may be necessary to state that deficiency 
of heat is not the only, or perhaps the principal reason, why 
grapes are not usually brought to perfection in this country in 
the open air. The place generally selected for a vine is against 
a wall in a level garden, possessing a considerable depth of 
soil. The nature of the vine is to strike its roots deep and 
wide. The situation mentioned affords it an opportunity of 
doing so; consequently, even in the driest weather, the ex- 
tremities of the roots are enabled to send up such a quantity 
of sap, that the plant continues, until very late in the autumn, 
to grow with the vigour of spring. ‘The fruit, from this cause, 
perhaps in a greater degree than from the want of heat, in- 
stead of ripening, continues in a green or growing state. In 
France, although the soil in which the grape is cultivated is 
generally much shallower than in our gardens, and the climate 
both warmer and drier, still, in certain situations, and in some 
seasons, to counteract this superabundant supply of sap, the 
stem of each bunch of grapes is twisted about half round, 
which is well known to produce, to a considerable extent, the 
desired effect, and demonstrates the truth of what has been 
stated. It therefore appears that two things are requisite, in 
order to ripen grapes in this country : in the first place, increase 
of heat, and, in the second place, a decrease of sap during the 
latter part of summer and in the autumn. The following is 
the plan proposed as being likely to effect both these objects : — 

Commence your operations upon a hill composed of chalk, 
or of any kind of stone which can be easily worked, having 
from six inches to a foot of tolerably good soil, and facing 


Vou. III.—No. 10. L 


146 Plan for a Vineyard. 


the south. (fiz. 45.) The inclination of the face of the hill 
must be as the line @ is to the level line c d. Begin to take 


1 NS SEPP eee 


WSN 
. a ‘ 


off the earth from the top of the hill till you have worked 
downwards thirteen or fourteen feet; wheel it away, and lay it 
in a ridge at the foot of the hill; then remove the chalk or 
stone to any place where it will not be in the way, till you re- 
duce the upper part of the hill to the angle formed by ef g. 
This will give you the inclined plane ef, six feet broad, on 
which the sun at noon will shine vertically about the third 
week in August, and a/flat terrace, fg, of the same breadth. 
From f to /, which is four feet, dig a trench two and a half 
feet deep; the side of the trench below / to be rather inclined 
towards the bottom of the trench below 4, to prevent the wall 
which will be mentioned presently from sliding down. From 
h to g is a footpath ;. from g to z is the second wall. If the 
bottom of the trench is composed of materials through which 
_ water will easily filter, it may bé made perfectly level ; if other- 
wise, make it a little sloping towards the back, and likewise to 
either end, or from the centre to both extremities, just as it 
may be found convenient, and place at the back a row of 
draining tiles, 4, to convey the water through the boundary 
wall entirely out of the vineyard. The dotted line from the 
draining tiles shows the bottom of the trench, in case the 
substance of the hill retains water. At the angle close to f 
let in a row of bricks endwise; from this row of what masons 
would term “ headers,” face up the slope with bricks laid flat 
in a bed of mortar, till you get within two inches and a half 
of ¢ ; the two inches and a half are to be occupied by a second 
row of “ headers:” thus the whole will be kept firm and com- 
pact. The bricks which are laid flat, together with the mortar, 


Plan for a Vineyard. 147 


will require about three inches: this space will be gained by 
the masons while in the act of levelling the rough work of the 
labourers. The wall should be neatly pointed with good mor- 
tar; the lime may be made near the spot with the chalk dry 
from the hill, Having proceeded thus far, cast the turf from 
Z to m into the trench f/, and then the earth which was under 
the turf upon it, till the trench is filled up to the level of 
the path 4 g. The first wall and terrace are now finished 
Make similar inclined planes, trenches, and paths all down the 
face of the hill, constantly throwing the earth from that part 
of the hill you are going to work upon to the trench you have 
just dug out above, and the earth in the first place carried to 
the foot of the hill will be ready for the last trench. This is 
supposing the hill affords just earth enough, which, should it 
be about nine inches thick, will be the case. ‘The whole should 
be surrounded with a wall, and the end of every second trench 
would be a good distance for a fruit tree, either pear, peach, 
plum, cherry, or apple. In this way, the east and west walls 
may be usefully employed. ‘The boundary wall on the north 
side might be carried back about twenty feet beyond the top 
of the first sloping wall, which would give room for a good 
border for fruit trees, with a full south aspect. The bottom 
of the hill must likewise be protected by a wall, and about the 
centre of it would be a good place for a labourer’s cottage. 
Watering would, of course, be occasionally necessary ; there- 
fore, if no brook can be led to the foot of the hill, a well must 
be dug, and a path left in the centre of the vineyard, from the 
bottom to the top of the hill, for the convenience of carrying 
up the water; or it might be thrown up by means of an engine, 
with a rose on the end of the pipe, to prevent the water from 
going with too much force. 

On these inclined walls the sun being vertical about the 
20th of August, the greatest portion of heat will be enjoyed 
by the vines at the time it is most necessary; for it must be 
recollected the grapes will be as forward by the third week in 
August, as they are on the common wall by the same time in 
September. ‘They will be so, not merely from the greater 
effect of the solar rays, but from the confinement of the roots, 
and from the moderate supply of sap the plants will receive in 
consequence; for, in a damp season, they will not have more 
water than is useful, and, in a dry one, it may of course be 
regulated accordingly as it appears to be requisite. 

As no foundation is wanted for the inclined walls, and as the 
bricks, except the first and last course, are to be laid flat, the 

L 2 


148 Plan for a Vineyard. 


expense will consequently be small, compared with the number 
of square feet covered with vines. 

Should a hill of a more rapid ascent be fixed on, it would 
be necessary to dig the trench deeper and narrower ; by which 
means two feet for a path might still be gained. If the elevation 
were less than the one described, the only difference would be 
additional width in the paths. In any case, the inclination of 
the walls should be as above directed. 

A plantation of Scotch pine and larch on the east, west, 
and north sides, at a due distance, would be useful as a pro- 
tection from the winds, and ornamental as a finish to the 
vineyard. 

As, in the first place, it was stated that deficiency of heat 
and asuperabundance of sap were the causes of grapes seldom 
arriving at perfection in the open air in this country, and as 
by this method the heat will be very materially increased, and 
the sap duly regulated, so there can scarcely be a doubt but that 
the result will be (except in very unpropitious seasons) well 
ripened and good flavoured fruit. 

Grantham, December 6. 1826. F, N. B. 


We hope this scientific and interesting paper will induce 
some gentleman who has a chalk ‘hill on his estate to attempt 
establishing a vineyard. We have no doubt of success, if the 
plan of our correspondent be followed. In some situations it 
might be worth while to form a vinery for growing table grapes 
on the above plan, covering each separate slope with a separate 
range of sashes, supported about 18 inches from the ground. 

To show the young gardener how easily and cheaply ex- 
periments may be made, - we subjoin F. N. B.’s mode of ascer- 
taming a slope that shall be perpendicular to the sun’s rays 
on any particular day of the year. He says, 

‘“‘T cannot answer for the accuracy of the inclination for the 
walls, as the only mode I made use of to ascertain the sun’s 
elevation was by means of three laths (fig. 46. a 6c), nailed 
together as a triangle, 
and, in order to obtain a 
level; placed on a tub of 
water (de); and when one 
stick (6), by pointing ex- 
actly to the sun at noon, 
cast no shadow, I took 
the one it crossed, which 
was at right angles with 
it (c), to be the inclina- 


On grapins the Peach on Peach Stocks. 149 


tion of the wall on which the sun would shine ver tically 
on the 22d of August, the day on which I tried to ascer- 
tain the point. Of course, one of the nails on the stick 
resting on, or parallel to, the surface of the water was not 
fixed, till, by elevating the stick (4) so that no shadow was 
cast, I was enabled to ascertain its proper place.” — Cond. 


Art. 1X. On grafting the Peach, Nectarine, and Apricot on 
Stocks of their own kind. By Mr. Danret Cameron, late 
Gardener to Admiral Sir George Cockburn, at Highbeach, 
Essex. 


By the mode, common in British nurseries, of budding the 
peach and apricot upon plum stocks, some time is lost in 
producing handsome bearing trees, and the fruit is of inferior 
flavour. Livery gardener must have observed that the vigorous 
shoot made by the bud the first year, when cut down the 
second year to within six or eight inches of the stock, receives 
a severe check, and is very liable to disease. It frequently 
happens that the future tree is spoiled in appearance by the 
weakness or unequal vigour of the side shoots, and partial 
decay of these, and of that part of the main stem which is 
above the stock. But, even under the most favourable cir- 
cumstances, this mode of raising peach trees never produces 
handsome plants till the third year, and they seldom bear 
fruit till the fourth or fifth year. 

As a quicker and better mode of raising trees of this kind, 
I venture to recommend the following practice, which I 
adopted some years ago at Hampton Lodge, near Farnham, 
when gardener to Henr y Long, Esq., and have auveranently 
adopted at the place I have just left, Highbeach , 
in Essex. {i 

Sow in autumn kernels of peaches, nectarines, 
or apricots, under the walls where they are to |} 
remain. ‘They will make a vigorous shoot the | 
following spring, and may either be budded in | 
the Ausust of ihe same year, or grafted the | 
March of the year following. Grafting is the | 
mode I prefer, and the scion (jig. 47. a) should x2 
have a quarter of an inch of two-years’ old wood "fg 
at its lower extremity. At least, I have found I 
scions so taken off succeed better than those )\ 
taken indifferently from any part of the young 

L 3 


150 On grafting the Peach on Peach Stocks. 


wood. Cut the stock with a dovetail notch (4) for the scion 
to rest on, and tie it on in the usual manner. Remove the 
buds of the scion in back and front, leaving two on each side 
and a leader; when these have grown six or eight inches, 
pinch off their extremities with the finger and thumb, by 
which means each shoot will throw out two others, and thus 
produce in autumn a fan-shaped tree with ten branches. I 
have generally found them bear two or three fruit the second 
year from the graft, and a proportionably greater number the 
third year. The flavour of the fruit, I think, is superior to 
that from trees grafted on plum stocks; and I am happy to 
find that this opinion corresponds with that of French gar- 
deners, as well as of some of your correspondents. (See 
Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 167,168, &c.) 

Such of your readers as have an opportunity, may examine 
the trees that I have raised in the above mode, at the two 
places mentioned. I cannot help thinking this plan of raising 
trained trees of the peach, nectarine, and apricot deserving 
the attention of nurserymen; but, if they should neglect it, I 
have no hesitation in saying that there are very few private 
gentlemen who would not find their advantage in its adoption. 

If budding be preferred to grafting, the shoot produced by 
the bud should be pinched after it has grown six or eight 
inches, and only five buds allowed to push; the five shoots 
produced by these buds should themselves be shortened to 
five or six inches, and disbudded as they push, so as to pro- 
duce a fan of ten shoots, as in the case of the grafted tree. If 
the wood so produced is properly ripened, it will hardly fail. 
to produce blossoms the following year. I confess, however, 
I have had very little experience in budding, though I have 
seen a budded peach bearing fruit the second year; but it is 
necessary to remark that the shoot was not cut down. 

I am, Sir, &c. 
_ Danret Cameron. 
Henderson's Nursery, Pinc-apple Place, 
Edgeware Road, Aug. ¥5. 1827. 


Mr. Cameron’s paper seems to us to open a new field for 
improvement in the culture of the peach and apricot. We 
would suggest to nurserymen to raise stocks in plunged pots 
of eight or nine inches in diameter; to graft these stocks at one 
year old, as practised by Mr. Cameron; and to sell the trees, 
still in pots, after being one or two years trained. By the 
plants having been grown in pots, they would be sent out 
with the whole of their roots ; and, when transplanted into the 


Agronome on Salt and other Matters. 15% 


free ground, they would grow vigorously, and, perhaps, ever 
bear fruit the first year. In wet and late seasons, the young 
shoots of plants, the roots of which were confined to pots, 
would be better ripened even in the open air ; but, if it were an 
object of consequence to have them thoroughly ripened, and 
fruit buds formed, the pots might be removed about the last 
week in August, and placed under a glass roof, or projecting 
coping. We hope some nurseryman will enter into the spirit 
of Mr. Cameron’s improvement, because we are convinced it 
is founded on rational principles ; but, if none of them will 
take this trouble, we trust some gentleman’s gardener will 
give the plan a fair trial. In the mean time, reference may be 
made to Mr. Cameron, or to the gardens where he practised. 
The next greatest improvement to that of Mr. Cameron, 
would be to treat the shoots produced by buds of peach trees 
Inserted in plum stocks, in the same way as Mr. Cameron 
proposes to treat the buds of peaches on peaches. By adopting 
this practice, very handsome trained trees might be produced 
in one year. They might be removed without being cut 
down, and would probably bear fruit the third year. Their 
not being in pots would be no objection, as the roots of the 
plum are much better adapted for removal than those of the 
peach, almond, or apricot. ‘Time and handsome trees would 
be gained by this mode; but to these Mr. Cameron’s practice 
adds better flavoured fruit. — Cond. 


Art. X. On Salt and other Matters. By AGRoNoOME. 
Dear Sir, , 


I pip not think of being so soon called upon to stoop and 
gather up the salt which I had dropt; much less did I think 
of engaging in a paper war with any of your correspondents, 
all of whom I am particularly glad to see, not forgetting Mr, 
C. W. Johnson, who has been so kind as to bestow upon me 
some beautiful compliments, including the “lie circumstantial.” 
It would hardly be fair in me to retaliate, without first giving 
him my card; and as that is not quite convenient at present, 
I shall content myself with stating a few facts, to show that 
what I have said is from conviction and experience, and that 
I am as free from prejudice as even Mr. Johnson can wish 
me; neither do I, think self-sufficiency is one of my phrases 
nor one of my failings. ‘That I was too sanguine as a gar- 
dener in my young days, or may be too sanguine as an authox 

L 4 


152 Agronome on Salt and other Matters. 


in my old days, is perhaps a constitutional complaint which I 
may never get rid of. It is very strange if I “ never tried an 
experiment with salt.” I had only related two anecdotes re- 
specting it, and the distance in time was above thirty years; 
and that I could give one for every intermediate year, would 
surely be no very difficult task. I have lived very much near 
the sea beach as well as near salt-works; I have watched the 
effects of the sea breeze and salt spray, and always found it. 
rather prejudicial to vegetation than otherwise! ‘The pam- 
phleteers will perhaps say that this was owing “ to the saline 
particles not being distributed scientifically ; they were either 
sown too thick or too thin, or not at the right season ; the salt 
should be measured by the imperial bushel, and weighed by 
the patent beam and scales, by men of rank and science.” I 
acknowledge that I possess neither rank nor science, but I 
hope I possess a common share of common sense, and, as 
Providence has ordered it, I possess rather more than a com- 
mon share of experience; and I refer to the most sensible 
part of your readers, if a given distance from the sea would 
not determine the case with as great precision as weights and 
measures; but such point I could never find. We have all 
seen a heap of rank manure lying in a field; we have seen it 
destroy vegetation for several inches all round; then all at 
once vegetation sprung up most luxuriantly, then gradually 
diminished, till the effects were lost in the natural verdure of 
the field. But, when a heap of salt lies in a field, it, like the 
dung, destroys all vegetation round it; but where is the point 
of luxuriousness ? where is so much as a fairy ring? ne where 
to be seen: the pestilential effects of it diminish as gradually 
as those of the poison tree which we read of in the Island 
of Java; or, if certain vegetables seem to thrive, they are 
of a particular kind, more resembling marine than terrestrial 
natives, and are actually feeding on the murdered carcasses of 
their more delicate neighbours! Facts like these, Sir, might 
teach a child that salt was not a manure, although extremely 
good and useful for many things. It destroysweeds and worms ; 
dead weeds and dead worms are an excellent manure. But, if 
destroying a perverse and rebellious generation of vegetables, 
to make room for a better, be manuring, then a naked sum- 
mer fallow is manuring: or, if cutting off nine plants to make 
room for a tenth be a manure, then a turnip hoe is a manure; 
for, though only a piece of steel on the end of a stick, it has 
often procured me forty or fifty tons of turnips per acre in- 
stead of four or five! By way of explanation, I sow nearly 
four pounds of turnip seed per acre in drills thirty inches 


Agronome on Salt and other Matters. 153 


asunder, so that, without the hoe, they would be little better 
than so many rows of cress or mustard. “ But,” says the 
man of science, “ salt enters into the constitution of plants, 
and therefore must be a manure.” I grant that it does enter 
into the constitution of certain plants, and I have witnessed 
some extraordinary good effects from its application; and I 
could fill several sheets on that side of the question, but am 
engaged at present on the opposite side. It hardens the straw, 
that would otherwise be flaggy; it makes the grain plump, 
that would otherwise be shrivelied ; in short, its uses are ex- 
traordinary, if applied with judgment: but to call it a manure 
is a kind of false philosophy which I should like to extirpate 
from the rising generation, as it would only lead to futile ex- 
periments, foolish arguments, and false conclusions. I make 
use of great quantities of salt every year, and did so before 
the duty was taken off, both rock salt and sait and ashes. 
I was then obliged to swear what I was going to do with 
it, and what I had done with it, and also give an account 
of the experiments I had tried with it, some of which have 
helped to make up the pamphlets I have read; but now I have 
no more trouble than if carting from a dunghill. Iwas at a 
salt-works last Tuesday, and, I suppose, the greatest salt-works 
in Europe; I bought a three-horse cart-full for ten shillings ; 
they loaded it into the bargain, only one of the men begged 
sixpence to drink, as he said he had made me a good load, 
and trod it well, so as not to shake off. I thought he spoke 
true, and gave him the sixpence. I weighed it and measured 
it after getting it home; it was 374 cwt., and measured 62 
imperial bushels! Now, this was not salt and ashes, but 
fair, good salt, only not quite fit for a silver salt-cellar; so, if 
any one wants salt manure, as they call it, I think I can tell 
them where the cheapest shop is. I asked a great many ques~- 
tions of the agent, and also of the neighbouring farmers, the 
substance of which would occupy several letters ; but all that I 
could write, or indeed all that others have written or could write, 
may be comprehended in the following parable: —A certain 
man had two sons ; they were twins, very much alike in every 
thing, and in nothing more than in their delicate complexion, 
and weakly and sickly appearance: they were troubled with 
worms, a weak digestion, &c. &c. One of them was put under 
a course of physic, which nearly killed him; but he however 
got well, and grew quite fat and jolly: the other lingered on 
for some time, and died at last, although he had always as 
much roast beef and plumpudding as he could set face to! 
The old man made the following remark, which passed cur- 


154 Use of Salt in growing the Hyacinth. 


rent through the country; that physic fattened the one, and 
roast beef starved the other: and the puffing apothecary who 
sold the physic began to collect evidences of the marvellous 
cures which his medicines had performed, and employed cer- 
tain scribblers to write in praise of it, some of whom overshot 
their mark, and published treatises to prove the extraordinary 
feeding and fattening powers of Glauber’s salts ! 
I am, dear Sir, &c. 
June, 1827. AGRONOME. 


Art. XI. On the Use of Salt in the Culiure of the Hyacinth. 
By Mr. Tuomas Hoae, Florist, Paddington. 


Sir, 

In addition to the judicious remarks of Mr. Campbell on 
the culture of the hyacinth, allow me to state the result of an 
experiment made last autumn upon some bulbs imported the 
year before from Holland; consequently this was the second 
year of their flowering in England. About the end of Novem- 
ber the smaller bulbs were planted in 48-sized pots, and 
the larger in upright .thirty-twos, in compost of one third 
loam, one third rotten cow-dung, and the remaining third of 
river sand, steeped in a strong brine of salt for ten days pre- 
vious. The pots were then plunged in the ground, and 
covered with five or six inches of old tan, where they re- 
mained till the middle of March, when they were removed 
into the green-house. ‘They flowered in a manner seldom sur- 
passed, either for brilliancy of colour, largeness of flower, or 
strength of foliage. What! salt again, wsque ad nauseam. 
Rideat Agronome! whom I nevertheless regard as one of the 
most entertaining of your correspondents. He evidently has 
been dry-salted a little himself, for one may discover at times, 
in his diatribes, particles of “ Attic salt,” seasoned also eazg. 
par. piperis. With respect to salt as a manure, I may be per- 
mitted to observe, as not altogether out of place, that I am by 
no means an advocate for its general application. Great care 
and discrimination are requisite, and its use ought to be first 
regulated by a course of experiments, and by reference also 
to the situation of plants while growing in their wild state. I 
have found it beneficial, and I have also, in one or two in= 
stances, found it the contrary. But, to return to the previous 
subject, the greatest possible injury, in my opinion, that can 
be done to all flowering bulbs is to cut off the leaves close to 


Use of Salt in Agriculture. 155 


the ground, as is too generally done, as soon as they have done 
flowering. By suffering them to die down gradually, there 
will be a chance of having strong healthy bulbs for the en- 
suing year. In order to preserve the blossoms of hyacinths 
which are planted in beds from being injured by frost, it will 
be requisite to hoop and cover them with mats during the 
night; and they will likewise preserve their freshness and 
beauty longer if they are shaded from the sun. 
I am, Sir, &c. 
Paddimgton, August 22. Tuomas Hoae. 


Arr. XII. Result of certain Experiments in regard to the 
Use of Salt in Agriculture. By Acricoxa of Lincolnshire. 


Sir, . 

OBsERVING in your valuable Magazine that you wished for 
an account of any experiments with salt as a manure, having 
made several, I will send you the result of them, for publica- 
tion or not, as you please, or as it may be convenient to you. 
In the first place, I always salt my hay, or artificial grasses, 
whether got well or ill, with about a stone to a waggon-load, 
as I believe it from experience to be advantageous to the health 
of the animals fed upon it; and, whenever apparently spoiled 
by rain, I have found that by salting it the cattle would eat it 
as readily as good hay, and appear to do as well upon it. 
I have also given it simply, mixed with the food of both horses 
and cattle, and it has always appeared to be of great service 
to them, and so thinks my farming man, who is of the old 
school, and, though not obstinate, is no great admirer of new 
theories. 2dly, I tried it on half an acre of heath land for tur- 
nips, and found no advantage whatever from it. The barley 
the following year was as good as that on the land by the side of 
it, which was also sown with turnips and manured with ten 
loads of the best manure an acre, but not better. On the heath 
land the turnips were a fair crop; on the salted land they were 
good for nothing. I also tried it upon half an acre of sand (in 
both instances at the rate of fourteen bushels an acre), and found 
it excellent, as the turnips and the barley after them were quite 
as good as on the adjoining land manured with ten loads an acre 
of good manure. In an acre of sand land for barley (fourteen 
bushels), after turnips fed off, the barley was taller, finer, and 
considerably more forward than on the adjoining land. On 
half an acre of wheat (seven, bushels on the half acre) on heath 


156 Conduct of Gardeners. 


land, the wheat was rather forwarder, but not better than the 
adjoining. The salt in both cases was spread immediately 
over the land by hand, after the grain was sown and harrowed 
in. 

On grass land by itself, at the rate of seven and of fourteen 
bushels an acre, without any advantage whatever, but mixed 
with earth, at the rate of from six to eight bushels to about 
six or eight loads of earth to the acre, and also with earth 
and manure at about the same rate an acre, it has been of 
very great advantage; so much so, that I think most pro- 
bably I shall never manure grass land without mixing some 
salt in the compost: I mean one bushel of salt to each load of 
compost, and about seven loads of compost to the acre. The 
salt to be turned over with the compost, and lie three or four 
months before it is spread. I have also tried it in the garden, 
but cannot speak decidedly as to any advantage derived from it. 

Lincolnshire, June, 1827. 


Art. XIII. On the Conduct of Gardeners and their Em- 
ployers. By Mr. Joun Cameron, Gardener, Grove Lane, 
Camberwell. 

Sir, 

In the first and second volumes of your Magazine, I observe 
various remarks upon the low wages and bad treatment which 
gardeners often experience; and, although I in some measure 
agree in opinion with the writers, yet I must attribute the 
cause principally to the young men themselves, especially to 
young gardeners from the country, who, whenever trifling dif- 
ficulties come in their way, throw up their situations with the 
view of bettering themselves through the medium of advertise- 
ments in the public prints, or by soliciting favours from nur- 
serymen. 

Gardeners from the country should engage for twelve 
months; by the end of that time many of the difficulties, so 
formidable when they first come to London, would be sur- 
mounted, which would be a great inducement for giving their 
place a farther trial, and, at the expiry of four or five years, 
they would be able to look around them with pleasure at the 
fruits of their industry, perseverance, and talent; and, having 
shown specimens of all these to their employers, whose confi- 
dence long ere this time they would have obtained, they might 
justly expect an advance of wages for their exertions : but, in- 
stead of this, the difficulties appear to them so great, that they 


Culture of Hyperanthéra Moringa. 157 


are continually changing their situations, both to the disad- 
vantage of themselves and their employers. 

On the other hand, the advantages of not changing to the 
owners of gardens are so great, that a few remarks will con- 
vince them how ruinous a change is to their garden, some- 

. times to the total destruction of it. That changes are some- 
times necessary I allow, but they might in many cases be 
dispensed with. A gardener possessed of general knowledge, 
honesty, sobriety, and perseverance ought not to be changed, 
as it is a well known fact, that the proprietor cannot find out 
the merits of his gardener in less than four or five years; and 
experience has proved that it is better to keep a bad gardener 
than be often changing. By changing, as some do every three 
or four months, they totally destroy their gardens; for how can 
so many gardeners, having different methods and intentions, 
and entering at every stage of the cultivation, avoid entirely to 
do so? Every new gardener must make a change, seeing that 
his predecessor was discharged for not making something or 
another grow or thrive to which the soil was unfavourable ; 
and hence these repeated innovations, carried on by a succes- 
sion of gardeners, shortly present to the owner the total de- 
struction of his garden, and which destruction, on taking a 

retrospect, he can only attribute to his own imprudence in so 
often changing his gardener. JoHn CaMERON. 
Grove Lane, Camberweil, April, 1827. 


Arr. XIV. On the Culture of Hyperanthera Moringa, or 
Horseradish Tree, in the West Indies. By W. Hamitron, 
Esq. M.D., Fareham, near Plymouth. 


Sir, 

TueE object of your valuable and widely circulating Maga- 
zine being general utility, without restriction to any particular 
part of the British dominions, and as I think much good might 
be effected by directing, through the medium of its pages, the 
attention of such of your readers as may be connected directly 
or indirectly with our colonies in the West Indies, as well as 
of our merchants trading to Colombia, to such productions of 
the tropics as, though hitherto neglected or overlooked, pro- 
mise to afford a rich harvest for speculative enterprise, I pro- 
pose, with your consent, commencing a series of letters for 
occasional insertion, on the subject of the commercial, econo- 
mical, and medical properties of some of the more valuable ; 


158 Culture of Hyperanthéra Moringa. 


thus supplying for the West Indians that information which 
my friend, Mr. Collyns, of Kenton, has, I rejoice to see, com- 
menced furnishing to the inhabitants of this country. 

The first I shall commence with is the Hyperanthéra (hy- 
per, above, anthera, anther: five barren stamens are sur- 
mounted by five fertile ones) Moringa, a diandrous shrub, not 
indeed indigenous, but now common in almost every part of the 
‘West Indies, and known by the several names of Horseradish 
Tree, Moringa, and Oil of Ben Tree. It is a shrub of rapid 
growth and elegant appearance, and has the valuable recom- 
mendation of coming into bearing within a few months from 
the time its seed is sown. Its timber, when it has attained a 
considerable size and age, is ponderous, of a dark colour, close 
grain, and subacrid bitterish taste, yielding a blue infusion 
with boiling water, and was formerly known in the shops 
under the name of Lignum nephriticum, from its supposed 
efficacy in curing disor ders of the kidneys ; it would probably, 
however, prove much more valuable to our cabinet-makers for 
ornamental furniture. The gum, which exudes from the 
wounded bark, appeared to me : to possess all the properties of 
gum tragacanth; at all events, it invites trial. ‘The bark of 
the root possesses all the sensible properties of horseradish, 
and is substituted for it at table, where the difference cannot 
be detected ; its medical properties are also precisely the same. 
The long pods, in their young and filiform state, are fre- 
quently served up to table as a substitute for asparagus, and 
are very good. But its most valuable product is the oil of its 
seeds, which it yields more copiously than either the cocoa 
nut ‘of the tropics, or the olive tree of Europe, while its pro- 
perty of keeping without becoming rancid, for an extreme 
length of time, renders it invaluable for a arahierdis of pur- 
poses; indeed the seeds abound so in oil as to yield it by simple 
pressure of the nail. From the experiments of the celebrated 
Geoffroy, 100 Ibs. of the decorticated seeds yield about 24 lbs. 
or 8°4 flascoes of a limpid, scentless, and tasteless oil, being 
0°4 of a flasco above Humboldt’s estimate of the annual pro- 
duce of a cocoa nut tree in full bearing, and 1:4. flasco above 
the produce of an olive tree of thirty years old in Provence. 
I am not prepared to say how many moringa trees in full 
bearing would be necessary to yield 100 lbs. “of decorticated 
seeds, and hence the parallel with the cocoa nut tree is par- 
tially defective; and I could wish some of your correspondents 
connected with the West Indies to supply this hiatus, which 
might be done without difficulty. However, I should con- 
ceive, from what I recollect of the tree, which is in continual 


Paragréles, or Hail-Protectors. 159 


bearing, that the annual produce of two moringa trees would 
fully equal this amount, especially were attention but paid to 
its culture; for, in every case in which I had an opportunity of 
seeing it, this was wholly neglected. Neither can I speak as to 
its longevity, though, from the facility with which it grows, and 
its coming into bearing so soon, this point is not so material. 
‘The cocoa nut tree does not come into bearing till its seventh 
or tenth year, and rarely continues in full bearing after its 
fortieth year, while, within a very few months after sowing 
the seed, the moringa begins to yield its harvest, and from 
that time till the period of its decay, which is not for many 
years, it is never to be found without flowers and fruit in all 
stages. Upon the whole, I have little hesitation in saying 
that, upon a fair trial, the moringa tree will be found among 
the most productive articles of West Indian agriculture next 
to the sugar cane, and far less uncertain in its returns. The 
oil, which is known in commerce by the name of Ben, or 
Behen, is, I believe, imported into this country at a consider- 
able expense from the Levant for the exclusive use of the per- 
fumers, while our own islands could furnish it in sufficient 
abundance to supply even the present deficiency of spermaceti 
oil for burning, to which use it is applied in France, where the 
usual charge by retail is fourteen sols per lb. 

The spermaceti whale having of late years, I understand, 
become scarce in the Northern Seas, it becomes an object of 
commercial importance to find a substitute which will prevent 
an unreasonable advance in the price of so necessary an article, 
and at the same time serve to give employment to our ship- 
ping, both of which ends I look upon the moringa tree as 
fully capable of answering. 

Should this commencement of my plan prove acceptable, I 
shall continue from time to time to trouble you with further 
suggestions on the uses to which other familiar, but neglected, 
productions of the tropics are applicable, and remain in the 
meantime, Sir, &c. 

Plymouth, March 10. 18277. Wiiiam Hamitton. 


Art. XV. On Paragréles, or Hail-Protectors, and their Em- 
ployment in Britain. By Joun Murray, Esq. F.A.S, 
L.S. H.S, G.S. &c. 

Sir, | 
As you have been good enough to advert to my remarks 
on the paragréle, introduced en passant, in my Observations on 


160 Paragréles, or Hail-Protectors. 


the Cultivation of the Silk-worm, &c., allow me to add that I 
think their utility indisputable, and their principles founded on 
the rock of inductive truth. 
It is freely conceded, by all conversant with the science of 
electricity, that meteorological phenomena are entirely de- 
pendent on atmospheric electricity, and that the fluctuating 
changes of the clouds from cirrus to nimbus (See Encyc. of 
Gard., § 1236.), through the intermediate gradationso f cumulus 
and stratus, and their vicissitudes, are determined by electric 
power. 
The conducting rod disarms the thunder cloud of its de- 
structive artillery, and the lightning’s flash, guided by a slen- 
der wire, obeys the summons that consigns it to the dust ; 
and, if such be the security afforded by a solitary insulated 
rod, generally imperfect, and badly constructed, much more 
may surely be expected from conducting wires, multiplied ad 
infinitum, and covering a vast tract of country. M. Chavannes, 
of the University of Lausanne, deserves his country’s thanks 
for the introduction of paragreles. In the last conversation 
we had together, he exceedingly lamented the inveterate op- 
position they had met with; I rejoined, that this was a sure 
test-of their value, because it appeared clearly to me that they 
were founded on scientific principles, and must ultimately 
triumph over every species of prejudice and error. This, I 
am happy to say, is amply verified, and that triumph attested 
in the Rapport sur ? Utilité des Paragréles, drawn up by the 
Linnean Society of Paris, in which their universal adoption is 
earnestly recommended, and the special protection of the 
French government solicited in their favour. ‘The Nowvelliste 
Vaudois of August 16th, 1825, very wittily observes, “ Les 
Paragréles n’ont qu’a bien tenuis. On les attaque par tout a 
Paris, a Berne, a Zurich. La Gréle seule les épargné.” And, in 
confirmation, I may merely state here that, when at Neufcha- 
tel, I was informed that, in a village only five miles distant, 
paragréles, from some superstitious motives, had not been 
erected, and the vineyards were ¢otally destroyed by hail, 
whereas, in those vineyards that were protected, in their im- 
mediate vicinity, the hail storm had been softened down into 
snow, or melted into rain. There is not one example of a vine- 
yard supplied with paragréles being injured in any way by 
hail. Hailstones, or rather fragments of ice, do not fall near 
a good conductor. Paragréles are generally used in the Can- 
ton de Vaud, particularly about Lausanne, and on the Italian 
side, as far as Vevey; but I think the eminences about Vevey 
are improperly neglected. These ought certainly to be espe- 


Paragriles, or Hail-Protectors. 161 


cially attended to, because, being nearer the source of the 
storm cloud, they might gradually disarm it on its approach. 
It may be well now to give a specimen of the /og7c employed 
by the antagonists to the paragréles :— “‘ Quel effet peut-on 
attendre de pointes de laiton d’une ligne épaisseur a |’extré- 
mité de perches de 35 a 40 pieds, tandis que la barre de fer 
la plus forte et la mieux armée n’agit que dans un rayon de 
50 pieds environ ? Les foréts arrétent les nuages et soutient 
le fluide électrique avec plus force, et en plus grande quantité, 
que ne pourraient le faire des milliers de pointes de laiton. 
Paragréles, au contraire, doivent empécher le fluide de s’ac- 
cumuler dans les nuages!!” In reply to the preceding mys- 
tical sophisms, it may be sufficient to say: 1. That an imperfect 
conductor, such as a bar of rusty iron, may be ¢hick enough, 
and infinitely inferior to a slender wire, formed of a perfect 
conducting material, such as brass or copper. I have repeat- 
edly passed an electric dicharge through my own person, by 
means of a fine cambric needle, that would have killed a sheep, 
and without the slightest electric effect. Besides all this, com- 
mon iron conductors, as generally constructed, are worse than 
useless; yet it is granted by the writer that such a conductor 
is sufficient in a radius of fifty feet: but the paragréles are 
planted much nearer together, and are each armed with supe- 
ricr conductors. 2 In the woods of America, the thunders 
are arrested by the spiny apices of the pines, and there dis- 
charge their explosive fires, while in the clear and cultivated 
lands it thunders but rarely, and lightnings are seldom de- 
structive. In this case the thunders are arrested by a series 
of infinitely multiplied conductors of the most imperfect 
kind, and the “ gnarled and unwedgeable oak” is often 
riven. Perfect conductors, numerous and extended, change 
the electric character of the cloud even on its approach, and 
while yet distant, and thus modify the coming storm; and 
these, too, are as opposed in their relations as the ball and 
point in the discharge of accumulated artificial electricity. I 
might say much more, but itis enough. Ignorance will always 
prate as long as she can, and, having too frequently the majority 
on her side, the power of numbers leads captive for a while; 
at length the blaze of truth becomes too brilliant for Ignorance 
to withstand and combat, while Science stamps her statements 
with the seal of powerful and resistless authority. 

The practical tendency of this communication is to recom- 
mend the employment ot paragréles in Great Britain. [mean 
to make the experiment myself. Hail storms often do tremen-~ 
dous mischief even in these happier climes. In 1824, during my 

Vo. III. — No. 10. M 


162 Culture of the Hyacinth. 


stay in Lincolnshire, the damage on a few farms by hail was 
most extensive, and one farmer lost to the amount of 300/. 
Withering and blighting blasts, the torrents. of rain that fall 
so partially in spring and autumn, and oftentimes with such 
‘fell swoop,” all these, and other meteorological pheno- 
mena, may be modified by conducting rods in the form of 
paragréles, and the result be of incalculable benefit. What- 
ever changes the electric character and state of the atmosphere, 
that grand depository of the storm cloud, and all its icy and 
tempestuous contents, must operate in the amelioration and 
modification of climate, and paragréles may reasonably be 
expected to do this, and more than we may well even guess at 
now. In a future communication I mean to extend and fortify 
my remarks, and give you a sketch of the paragrele. 

lam, Sir, &c. J. Murray. 
February 15. 1827. 


Art. XVI. Note on Mr. Campbell’s Mode of growing the 
Hyacinth. By Rusticus 1n Ursr. 
Sir, 

Tue great merit of Mr. Campbell’s mode of treating hya- 
cinths (Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 411.) depends entirely on the 
depth, four inches, at which he plants them. An acquaint- 
ance raises them in the highest possible perfection, and has 
done so for many years, by observing no other rule than deep 
planting. His soil is a sandy loam. ‘The depth at which 
they are planted is four or five, and even six or seven, inches. 
All the tribe naturally root deep, witness the harebell in 
our hedges; so do the polyanthus, narcissus, &c. ‘This is 
the point that should be attended to, and probably the orchis 
family may require no other care. When a root is dug up in 
the field, the depth should jbe observed, and it should be 
replanted exactly the same, A little observation on this point 
may be of much use. 

July, 1827. _ Rusticus 1n URse. 


Art. XVII. Further Particulars of an Experiment made with 
a View of bettering the Condition of the Labouring Classes. 
By Joun Moceriner, Esq. 

Sir, 
TweEtveE months having nearly elapsed since I sent you 
some particulars of an experiment made with the view of 


Experiment for bettering the Labouring Classes. 163 


bettering the condition of the labouring classes (Gard. Mag., 
vol. ii. p. 19.), it will not, I am confident, be unacceptable to 
you, or to those of your readers who may think the object con- 
templated of no ordinary importance, to know the result of 
the past year’s experience, in addition to that of six preceding. 
But I must first be allowed to express my regret that, notwith- 
standing the commendation bestowed by you, with (I conceive) 
so much judgment and justice, on pursuits of this nature, and 
your invitation of similar communications, so few have been 
made in the course of a whole year. Grateful as I should 
personally feel for any hint that would enable me to improve 
in any one particular of my plan, and much as numerous in- 
dividuals, and, I will venture to add, society at large, might be 
benefited thereby, I cannot but hope for and earnestly request, 
through the medium of your most interesting work, the kind 
assistance of such of your readers as have it in their power to 
contribute useful information. That this has not been already 
more plentifully bestowed, I am gratified, and, as an English- 
man, proud, to say, is not owing to want of materials, out of 
which highly interesting facts might be supplied, though I 
will only now mention the kindred experiments of the Bishop 
of Bath and Wells, Mr. Estcourt of Wiltshire, and Mr. J. 
Cropper of Liverpool, correct accounts of which (and from 
no persons so appropriately as from those benevolent indivi- 
duals themselves) I trust will, ere long, grace the pages of 
your work. 

But, to return from what I wish to know, duly and fully 
authenticated, to that which has already become the object of 
actual and personal knowledge, and, whilst I cannot but 
lament that, owing to an unfortunate misunderstanding be- 
tween the masters of collieries and their workmen in this 
immediate neighbourhood, the fair prospect of increase both 
of houses and inhabitants has been grievously blasted, I 
rejoice in being able to state that no one circumstance has 
occurred to undo what has been done ; to excite a doubt as to 
the value of the experiment, or as to its present or future 
and progressive usefulness. On the whole, there has been an 
increase in each of the forementioned particulars ; but, that it 
has not in either respect equalled my expectations, your 
readers will not be surprised when I state that there is 
reason to believe that, had all the labourers employed in and 
about the works in this immediate neighbourhood consented 
to the reasonable reduction in wages imperiously required by 
the circumstances of the trade (as many of them would 
cheerfully have done), in the course of seven weeks’ stoppage 

M 2 


164 Experiment for bettering 


some 15,000/. more would have been disbursed in wages than 
was actually issued. ‘The privations and even positive suffer- 
ings endured in consequence have not, however, been pro- 
ductive of unmixed evil: for the value and importance of well 
cultivated gardens to the comforts and necessities of the poor, 
have been rendered more manifest in the course of these cala- 
mitous seven weeks, than perhaps in the whole preceding six 
years; and the unquestionable fact, that it is chiefly poverty that 
in this country engenders misery and crime (a fact worthy 
of all the attention political economists and statesmen will 
deign to bestow upon it), was never rendered more practically 
apparent. It was also highly consolatory to see many of the 
villagers who were not permitted by the dictation of others of 
their fellow-workmen, or the terror excited by their threats, to 
continue at their regular work, readily and steadily availing 
themselves of the resource of their gardens; so that much 
greater progress has been made in rendering them gene- 
rally productive, and in most materially increasing their extent, 
than could have taken place under, in other respects, more 
favourable circumstances. Independently of casual but fre- 
quently repeated observation, upon occasion of making a regu- 
lar survey of the gardens in the village previously to the 
awarding the prizes for the present year, it was both surpris- 
ing and delightful to see the extent, variety, and general clean- 
liness of the culture, as well as the excellence of the crops, 
many of them justifying the observation, in which the pro- 
prietors expressed concurrence, that the produce of such gar- 
dens, so managed and judiciously applied, might be made to 
contribute a third. part to the maintenance of the family in 
wholesome food. ‘Thus, on a perception of the desirableness 
of a garden to the cottager, which, as I observed in my for- 
mer scene, I had so much difficulty to awaken in the 
minds even of the industrious, not only has a taste for its con- 

veniences and comforts been successfully ingrafted, but habits 
been formed which cannot fail to be strengthened and con- 
firmed by enjoyment. Were it not for cccupying too much 
of your valuable room, and for the fear of tirmg your readers, 
I could furnish details on this part of my subject that could 
not fail to afford satisfaction to every friend to the improve- 
ment of the situation and morals of the labouring classes. I 
shall therefcre confine myself to a single instance, for the gra- 
tification of those who will not read, 


“ with a disdainful smile, 
The short and simple annals of the poor ;” 


the Condition of the Labouring Classes. 165 


yemarking only that this is by no means a solitary instance, 
though, as must be expected, few can be so complete, that 
there must be shades of difference between each, and that it 
shall be merely a concise narrative of facts. Some time in the 
course of the second year of my experiment, riding on horse- 
back by a barn situated on a farm, the whole of the land 
belonging to which I had laid down to pasture, and which was 
on that account unused, my attention was excited by the 
sound of voices proceeding from within it. Upon alighting, and 
entering the barn, I saw a young man and woman, the latter 
sitting upon a coverlid or rug covering some straw; whilst the 
former was standing by, earnestly conversing upon the not 
very promising aspect of their worldly affairs. I quickly 
learned that they were a newly married couple, that they were 
strangers and destitute; and that my bailiff had granted them 
permission to shelter for a few nights in the deserted barn. 
There appeared to me an evident disposition in both to 
wrestle with the world for the chance of better times; and the 
continued occupancy of the barn, with ready consent to the 
husband’s running up a rude chimney in one corner, which he 
said he could himself perform with materials at hand, were — 
granted. The man became a labourer on my farm; and, 
pleased with his conduct, after three or four months’ tenancy 
of the barn, winter advancing, and a small house becoming 
vacant, he and his wife were transferred to it, and he became 
my carter. After a while I spoke to them of “a house of 
their own,” and promised them assistance. ‘The carter shortly 
asked leave to convert himself into a collier, and he succeeded 
in becoming a good one. In the beginning of the year 1824 he 
reminded me of my promise to let him have land on a build- 
ing lease, obtained permission to erect a very humble cottage 
in the first instance, rather than to “be beholden to any one for 
money,” and became possessor of thirty-six perches of ground, 
which was cleared for him. Perfectly satisfied with his pro- 
ceedings, I told him to lay out the ground-rent when due, in 
improving his garden; and on the 22d of September, 1826, he 
paid me one year’s rent, saying he could spare it. On the 2d of 
February last he begged to be allowed to extend his garden, and 
had twenty-eight perches added to it. On the 6th of this month, 
he brought his rent for the first taking in full, up to the 2d of 
August last, and petitioned for another addition of half an acre. 
Apprehensive that the man was over-rating his own powers, 
I hesitated, and told him my fears, which he assured me were 
groundless. I minutely inspected his former undertakings. 
and was convinced, in consequence, that (in his own words 
M 3 


166 Experiment for bettering the Labouring Classes. 


the addition would do him good; and he has entered upon his 
third taking. The produce of this additional land is meant 
to supply the neighbouring markets with. ‘The woman (who 
has two children) sells what of it there is to spare, and does a 
ereat deal of the easy work in the garden, the rest having 
been’ hitherto performed by the husband, without neglecting 
his regular employ. I did not in my former communication 
describe the nature of the leases which have proved such 
eminent encouragement to industry, because, having no good 
precedent, mine were rather speculative; the object being to 
effect what I had in view in the best practicable way, they 
have varied, and, at the period of my last letter, I had not 
been able to ascertain the effects of each. The first leases 
were for three lives; some time after, I added the right of 
nominating an additional life on the decease of the first; and, 
subsequently, believing that it would enable those who were 
unable to find at once the whole of the money they wanted, 
to borrow on the security of the lease without difficulty, I 
agreed to aclause for insuring ninety-nine years’ possession in 
the whole, that is, in all cases where the four lives should not 
extend together to that term, and, completely to establish an 
equality of title and property, allowed those who had taken 
original leases to have them put upon the same footing. 
These terms are universal in the village of Blackwood, con- 
taining now about one thousand inhabitants. In the formation 
of a second village at Ynisdd (Black Island), four miles distant 
from the first, the improved has been the term of lease granted 
without exception; but the ground-rent is lower, on account 
of the situation at present not being equally advantageous. 
At Trelyn (Town by the Pool; a pool in the river Romney, for- 
merly supposed to be unfathomable) the grant is of freehold 
leases, on lives renewable for ever, on payment of 5s. heriot. 
These I think preferable to any other; and, that this opinion 
is general amongst those who are likely to partake of their 
benefit, from various circumstances, but more particularly from 
the unexampled avidity with which these leases are taken 
(exceeding, by far, any thing experienced at any time in either 
the Blackwood or Ynisdd villages), is manifest. I cannot 
conclude without mentioning that great and satisfactory im- 
provements are making in the plan and management of our 
village schools, and that a most promising disposition to 
insure to their children the advantages of education has been 
awakened generally in the minds of the parents, so that I 
hope ere long we shall be able to adopt and maintain the 
system of mutual instruction complete in all its branches. In 


On Straw Mats for covering Hot-houses. 167 


the Blackwood schools there are now daily instructed one hun- 
dred and forty-five scholars, with a prospect of great and speedy 
increase of numbers, as (much to the credit of both parties) the 
coal-masters of the neighbourhood and their workmen have 
agreed upon a plan for appropriating a small poundage out of 
the earnings of the latter, by which ample remuneration will be 
insured to the teachers. Reading, writing, and the first rules 
of arithmetic are taught in these schools, to which is to be 
added a class for learning mensuration and surveying, as 
applicable particularly to colliery-work; and the girls are to 
be taught to work with the needle, by the wives of the school- 
masters. I am, Sir, yours, truly, 

Joun H. MocerineGe. 
Woodfield, Monmouthshire, Sept. 7. 1827. 


Art. XVIII. On the Construction and Use of Straw Mats 
for covering Hot-houses, and as a Substitute for Russian Mats 
in covering Frames and Pits. By Mr. Wittiam Joun- 
ston SHENNAN, Gardener at Gunnersbury House, Middle- 
sex. 


Mars of straw and of reeds, it is understood, have long 
been in use in Holland and France for covering the glass 
roofs of hot-houses, pits, and frames. I have also seen them 
used for the same purpose, though but to a limited extent, in 
Scotland, and by a few gardeners in different parts of Eng- 
land. I believe they have been for a long time more or less 
applied in this way, and as sheltering screens. My attention 
some years ago was particularly directed to them, from ob- 
serving the important purposes which they served in the 
garden of General Dumourier in this neighbourhood, under 
the direction of a French gardener; and my object, in this 
communication to the Gardener’s Magazine, is to direct the 
attention of my brethren to a covering which I. consider 
superior to all others for pits and frames, and by which I have 
proved tomy own and my employer’s satisfaction that a great 
saving of fuel may be made, and a superior degree of safety from. 
accidents attained. 

The construction of straw mats is perhaps more easily per- 
formed than described. The materials of which they are 
composed are drawn rye straw or reeds fit for thatching, 
stout packing cord, and laths or slips. of wood about an inch 
and a half broad and three fourths of an inch thick, and, in 

M 4 


168 = On Straw Mats for covering Hot-houses. 


the case of mats for hot-houses, iron or wire rings. The only 
instrument necessary for manufacturing them is a common gar~ 
den knife. 

In width each mat is made equal to that of the breadth of 
the sash to be covered; in length, equal to the length of the 
sash in the case of pits or frames, and to the joint lengths of 
the upright and sloping sashes of a hot-house roof. Having 
cut two laths to the required width of the mat, lay them down 
on the ground at the required length; stretch cords from one 
to the other at twelve or fourteen inches’ distance, or say three 
to a mat of ordinary width; then take three cords, or one 
for each line, and having begun by fastening the ends-of these 
cords to the laths at one end of each line, take a handful of 
the straw or reeds, lay it in a small parcel, of uniform thick- 
ness, across the lines, and make it fast to them by passing 
each of these cords round it, 'so as to tie it on to the long 
lines, and to tie each parcel to that adjoining. ‘This will give 
a rope, or small bundle of reeds or straw, of one and a half or 
two inches in diameter, as may be thought a sufficient thick- 
ness, across the long lines, and close to the lath, not unlike 
the straw layers of a bee-hive, but much more loose; and, by 
repeating the operation, the whole length between the laths 
will soon be covered with similar layers, and the mat completed. 
Or the mats may be formed with tarred rope yarn, such as 
thatchers use, without the use of cords, by simply fastening 
the ends of the requisite number of long lines to the cross 
laths; and then each line being rolled up so as to form a little 
ball, the parcels of straw are fastened to it by enclosing each 
handful, in successive nooses or ties, with the line. If the 
straw is weak and the mat thin, cross laths every five or six 
feet will greatly strengthen it. In this way the mats used in 
Henderson’s nursery, Edgeware Road, are formed. 

When the mats are to be used for pits or frames, nothing 
more is necessary than to cut off the ends of each roll to a 
line, so as the edges of the mat may be pertectly straight, and 
the mat every where of exactly the same width as the laths; 
but, when the mats are to be drawn up to cover a hot-house 
roof, it is necessary to have a ring, which may be of twisted 
wire, placed exactly in the centre of each lath. To one of 
these rings a cord is attached, for the purpose of being passed 
over a pulley to be fixed on the coping board, or on the centre 
of the end of each sash at the top of the roof. This cord must 
be at least twice the length of the mat, in order that, when the 
mat is drawn down and rolled up, the end of the cord may be 
within reach of the operator on the ground at the front of the 


On Straw Mats for covering Hot-houses. i69 


house. The other ring is merely for the purpose of securing 
the lower end of the mat to the front sill, or otherwise fastening 
it when drawn over the roof. When the mats are removed 
from the roof, and rolled up during the day, the cord is loosened 
from the ring, and lies on the roof, ready to be refastened to 
it, to draw the mats up next evening. 

In using these mats on hot-houses, each mat is drawn up 
from the front of the glass to the top of the roof by the cord 
mentioned, and the end of that cord is made fast to a ring in 
the front sill; to which ring also the other or lower extremity 
of the mat is fixed. The edges of the mats meet one another 
over the rafters, but do not overlap; and they are so very 
light, that they may be drawn up and drawn down in an in- 
credibly short time. ‘These mats may also be drawn up in a 
direction across the glass sashes, by attaching a cord to one 
corner of each end, passing these cords over two pulleys ; and, 
in that case, the mats might be laid like tiles on a roof, and 
the direction of the straw would better throw off the rain: but 
the mode first described, and which is generally used, is the 
simplest, and has the advantage of being worked by one man, 
whereas the other cannot be worked without two, or at ilenate 
not very easily. 

I fear this description will ne considered tedious, and per- 
haps not so clear as might be wished; but no agricultural 
labourer will find any difficulty in making such mats, when 
given to understand for what purpose they are to be used. 

I have more than once had recourse to these mats as a pro 
tection from hail in the daytime, and occasionally for shading 
newly shifted pines. Iam happy to see that they are begin- 
ning to be adopted in some of the nurseries and market-gar- 
dens, and have little doubt that, as the merits of this very 
simple and economical mode of preserving heat come to be 
known, straw coverings will be universal in kitchen-gardens. 
The new system of heating by water, and the revival of this 
old system of covering with straw or reeds, I consider to be 
the greatest improvements that have been introduced into the 
forcing department in my time. 

I am, Sir, &c. 
-Gunnersbury House, May, 1827. Ww. JoHNSTON SHENNAN. 


We can most strongly recommend the straw coverings as 
in many cases far preferable to mats or canvass. They are 
used at Henderson’s nursery, Edgeware Road, the Clapton 
nursery, Ronalds’s nursery, Brentford, and in the botanic 
garden at Kew. Mr. Shennan has left ‘Gunner sbury, in con- 


170 Revolving Forcing-Frames. 


sequence of the death of his employer, Major Morrison, and 
is now gardener to Edward Baker, Esq. M. P., Salisbury. — 
Cond. 


Arr. XIX. Notice of a Revolving Frame for Forcing, and 
the Culture of Exotics, the Invention of Mr. R. Gauen of 
Millbrook ; and of another Revolving Forcing-Frame by Mr. 
Alexander Bisset, Gardener to Robert Smith, Esq., of Meth- 
ven, Perthshire. 


_ Mr. Gaven has sent us little ‘more than drawings of his 
invention (fig. 48.), by which it appears to be an oblong box 


' opp eee pepe 


Leryn 


of wood or metal, the cover of glass like a cucumber frame, and 
the whole balanced on, and revolving by means of, iron balls 
placed in a circular groove (a). The elevation (5) and section 
(c) of such a frame may be easily conceived. (Mr. Gauen’s 
letter of September 19.) 

Mr. Bisset, referring to the notice of Mr. Gauen’s inven- 
tion in p. 102., says: “ I have been engaged for some time past 
in constructing a revolving forcing-frame, purely of my own 
invention, the model of which I had prepared so early as the 
beginning of July last, and a description of which I shall likely 
send as soon as I can have the experience of its operation.” 
(Mr. Bisset’s letter of October 2.) 


171 


PART IL 


REVIEWS. 


Art. I. Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London. 
Vol. VII. Part I. 


(Continued from p. 55.) 


8. On the Esculent Ege Plants. By Mr. Andrew Mathews, 
A.L.S. (Author of the Paper on a Dairy Cottage, &c., p. 135.) 
Duwat, in his Histoire des Solanum (p. 102.), states that 

at Montpelier the Solanum esculéntum, or Egg Plant, is sown 
early in spring, and comes into fruit about the middle of sum- 
mer, continuing to bear abundantly till the end of October. 
The eggs are used, by both rich and poor, in soups and stews. 
The following mode of cookery has been tried, and found to 
answer perfectly: — ‘ Split each fruit lengthwise into three 
pieces ; let-each piece be scored, well rubbed with salt, and set 
to drain for two or three hours; after which, soak the pieces 
in water until the salt is extracted. ‘Then pepper, and fry 
the pieces in butter with crumbs. When served the pieces 
will appear thin and flat.” 

In the garden of the Horticultural Society, the seeds are 
sown in pots early in spring, and placed in a hot-bed frame 5 
at two or three inches’ height, the plants are put into separate 
pots, and replaced in the frame till they are nine or ten inches 
in height; they are then turned out of the pots in the open 
garden at a few inches’ distance from the bottom of a south 
wall. They are watered in dry weather to prevent the attacks 
ef the red spider, to which they are particularly subject, 
especially under glass. The sorts cultivated and described 
by Mr. Mathews are the Round Purple, and the Long Purple. 


9. Notices of Communications to the Horticultural Society between 
January 1. 1824. and January 1. 1825, of which separate Ac- 
counts have not been published in the Transactions. Extracted 
from the Minute Books and Papers of the Society. 


A Pine Pit erected in the garden of W. Forman, Esq. 
fig. 49.) 1s heated by a flue in a chamber below the tan. 


“2 


172 Transactions of the Horticultural Soccety. 


The tan (fg. 49. a) is 
supported by oak joists 
resting on the side walls, 
and on a middle wall of 
open brickwork (0). The 
joists are three inches deep, 
an inch and a half thick, 
and three inches apart ; in- ™" 

stead of being covered with boards or tiles, a course of 
turf is laid over them, which is found to answer perfectly. 
The heated air is conveyed from the chamber below into 
the atmosphere of the plants, by means of small aper- 
tures (c) formed in the back and front walls at four inches 
and a half apart, and also through tubes of iron, or chimney-pots 
(d), resting on the joists directly over the flue. Through the 
same pipes or pots water may be poured on the covers of the 
flues, which are formed hollow (e), so as to generate steam at 
pleasure. Ventilation is effected by airholes communicating 
with the pit (figs. 49. and 50. / ), and by sliding shutters in the 

. w 


back wall (g). ‘This pit is found to answer all the purposes 
for which it was designed. 

Buck’s Scarlet Rhubarb. — Specimens were sent on the 7th 
of January from Elford, which had been forced in the follow- 
ing manner: — “ The roots taken up as perfect as possible, 
having the earth which adheres to them still attached, are 
placed in a bed of decayed tan, or in boxes or pots filled with 
the same, in the mushroom house, which, by the aid of a 
flue, is kept at a temperature of from 45° to 55°. Tan is 
preferred to mould, because it receives water more freely when 
given to the plants. After the forcing is finished, the roots 
are kept under cover of long litter, or manure, till warm 
weather in April, when they are divided by asharp knife, and 
planted in a north border, or in the open ground; in the fol- 
lowing autumn, the strongest are fit to be forced again in the 
ensuing winter, and the weakest are replanted for another 
season. It is found that peeling the stalks of this kind of 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 173 


rhubarb, before it is put into a tart, both destroys the colour 
and deteriorates the flavour.” 

Apples have been preserved in hods in the earth, in the 
manner of potatoes, as described by our correspondent Mr. 
Donald, at Betley Hall in Staffordshire. The gardener’s 
name is not mentioned, probably because the communication 
was sent by his master. | 

“< Some apples, which had been thus treated, were sent to 
the Society on the 14th of February, in as fresh a state as if 
newly gathered from the tree. This plan of preserving apples 
must be very useful to cottagers and others who have not the 
advantage of a fruit-room for the protection of the produce 
of their gardens and orchards during winter. The apples 
should be of hardy and keeping sorts, and not more than 
four or five bushels should be put into one hod. It is 
requisite to place straw at the bottom and sides, and also to 
cover the top of the heap of apples with straw, so as entirely to 
separate them from the earth; this is not always done with 
potatoes.” 

Strawberries are grown at Kast Looe in Cornwall in beds in 
the following manner: — The runners are allowed to cover the 
beds with plants as thick as they can stand. In autumn the 
_ beds are covered with earth from the alleys or elsewhere to 
the depth of two or three inches. “ In the spring, the whole 
- shoot through the covering with vigour, producing very strong 
foliage, and in due season abundance of large and finely 
flavoured fruit. Before this practice was adopted, very little 
fruit was obtained. ‘The soil is light, and the beds are oc- 
casionally watered when the plants are in blossom. ‘The 
leaves, being abundant, hide the beds and fruit from the sun, 
and prevent evaporation and the growth of weeds. The fruit 
stalks grow eight or ten inches in height, and as the berries 
at their extremities increase in size and weight, the stalks fall 
under the leaves, and are consequently protected from showers 
beating the earth on them, which is often the case when plants 
stand in single rows. ‘The first year of this plan is less pro- 
ductive than succeeding ones ; the Wood and Alpine Straw- 
berries do not however succeed under such treatment,” 

Wicker Protectors for tender trees and shrubs in winter, and 
newly removed plants in summer, were exhibited by W. Wal- 
cot, Kisq. ‘* They are are made of ozier-work of the coarsest 
description, and, in figure, are accommodated to the plant for 
which they are destined; or if small, and not prepared with 
any specific object, of a hemispherical or conical form. 
They are either made entire, or in two halves which are 


174 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


readily tied together. The points of the ribs of the work are 
made to project a few inches at the bottom, and thus serve as 
feet by which the protectors are fixed in the earth.” 

Celery has been grown successfully, late in the autumn, from 
the seedling plants which had remained in the spring seed-bed 
till they grew to a considerable size. The progress of the 
plants was proportionately more rapid than if they had been 
transplanted at an earlier period. ‘The general idea is that 
plants under such circumstances are liable to run to seed; 
but, if the repetition of this experiment should be attended 
with similar success, it would be attended with some saving of 
labour and of ground, in the economy of the kitchen-garden. 

An old Garden Wail, painted with seal oil and Rogers’s (of 
Robert Street, Hoxton,) anticorrosion powder, was supposed 
by W. Cotton, Esq. of Wellwood House near Leytonstone, 
to lessen the tendency to blight in the trees planted against it. 
The smell of seal oil is particularly offensive; cod oil is less 
so, and a wall painted with it and anticorrosion powder “ did 
not appear to be so great a preservative against blight.” The 
anticorrosion powder has nothing to do with the blight-repel- 
ling quality of the mixture, which obviously depends on the 
smell. It is formed of powdered green glass bottles, scoria of 
lead, or other vitrified materials, which are found to adhere 
more firmly than the usual metallic oxides or jearths - which 
are employed in common painting. 

A strong Autumnal Crop of Red and White Antwerp Rasp- 
berries has been obtained by Mr. John Mearns, gardener to 
W. Hanbury, Esq. at Shobden Court in Herefordshire, by 
the following management : — “ In May he removes the young 
fruit-bearing shoots from the canes, leaving in some cases one 
or two eyes, in others cutting them clean off. Under either 
plan, they soon show an abundance of vigorous shoots, fre- 
quently three or four from each eye, which produce plenty of 
blossoms in the beginning of July, and on these a good crop 
of fine raspberries is borne in August, when all the regular 
produce on the plants not thus treated is consumed.” 

The Crop of Onions at Thirkleby Hall in Yorkshire was 
continually lost, in consequence of their being attacked by the 
erub when half grown. Mr. Elias Hildyard, knowing that 
spontaneous production can only take place on the surface of 
the earth, and consequently that the seeds and eggs of insects 
will remain dormant when buried to a certain depth, trenched 
his ground so as to effect that object. It is almost unne- 
cessary to observe that he found the same plan equally effec- 
tive in reducing to a dormant state the larve that used to 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 175 


feed upon his garlic and shallots. Like our correspondent 
Mr. Rose (Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 274.), Mr. Hildyard sows in 
drills eight inches apart, and thins the plants and stirs the 
ground three or four inches deep twice or thrice during their 
rowth. 

: The Rotting of the Jargonelle, Longueville, Windsor, Green 
Yair, and such like Pears, Sir George Mackenzie finds is re- 
tarded by gathering them before they are ripe. 

A very full Crop of Pears was obtained by the Rev. John 
Fisher, of Wavendon in Buckinghamshire, from trees which 
before had not borne at all, by twisting and breaking down 
the young shoots (jig. 51.) late in the autumn, when the wood 


had become tough, and after the sap had retreated. Mr. Fisher 
found this practice succeed with branches on which ringing 
had been tried without success, and states that the pendent 
branches continue perfectly healthy, which gives the plan 
some apparent advantage over ringing. Of course, breaking 
and twisting shoots or branches with a view to the production 
of blossom buds, when performed after the sap has retreated, 
will not be attended with the desired result till the second suc- 
ceeding spring. A plan which from theory we should prefer 
is, tying down the young shoots in a completely pendent 
direction about or soon after midsummer; and this plan has 
the additional advantage of being applicable to standard trees, 
which the breaking and twisting mode can hardly be, unless 
in very sheltered situations. No artificial plan of inducing 
fruitfulness, however, not even ringing, is worth much, with a 
view to general adoption; but it is well to know what may be 
resorted to in cases of difficulty. 


176 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


Passifloras are found, by Mr. W. Mowbray, gardener to 
the Earl of Mountmorris, at Arley Hall, not to fruit so well 
when set with their own pollen, as when set with the pollen of 
other species promiscuously, P. racemdsa and P. alata fruited 
freely by using each other’s pollen, but would not fruit at all 
when each was limited to that of its own stamens. The fruit 
of P. alata is of a yellow colour and pleasant flavour, and 
nearly as good as that of P. quadraneularis, though not quite 
so large. The great advantage of P. alata is, that it will 
thrive and fruit where the other will not live: it will grow 
planted in the floor against the back wall of a hot-house, and 
trained up the wall, keeping its roots quite moist. P. qua- 
drangularis seldom does much good, unless when planted in a 
corner compartment in the bark bed. 

Red and White Currants are preserved on the tree, in the 
garden of James Webster, Esq. at Westham in Essex, in a 
very perfect and fresh state till the middle of November, or 
later, by being covered with bunting from the time they have 
ripened. ‘ This covering is found to keep the fruit in a better 
state than mats. ‘The free admission of light and air to the 
tree seems to be beneficial. It is necessary, after the bunting 
has been fixed, to open it at the bottom occasionally, in order 
to remove the leaves which drop from the bunches. ‘The 
berries should be well ripened before the bunting is fixed, 
otherwise they will shrink, instead of remaining plump and 
full.” 


10. Report on the Instruments employed, and on the Plan of a 
Journal of Meteorological Observations kept, in the Garden of the 
Horticultural Society at Chiswick. 


11. Journal of Meteorological Observations, made in the Garden of 
the Horticultural Society at Chiswick, during the Year 1826. By 
Mr. William Beattie Booth, A:L.S. 


JANUARY. 
1826. Morning. Noon. Night. 
5 : sot Nl 
4 Barom.| Hygrom. | Weather. ||Barom.| Hygrom.| Weather. ||Barom. Hygrom. | Weather. 
€ Su.]1} 29816 | 36] 36] —| wet 29810 45 | 
2 30) — |W 2 44| 1|\Cloud 29'808 } 44} 44}—|Cloud 
2 — 857 | 40 39 1|Fine — 864 |42)36} 6|Fine ; —895 |32} 31) 1 nase 
Tu.| 3 —=899 32 31| 1/Frosty —'891 |37}36} 1/Cold — 927 | 353} 32) 1}Ditto 
W.| 4 —957 35 34| 1)|Ditto — 941 | 37} 36} 1'Cold & Cloudy|) —-953 | 35] 34} 1/Cold 
Th.|5 — 937 34 32 2\Cold — 911 | 35|35)— Wet — 866 | 36} 36} —| Wet 
F.| 6 —703 39.55 | —| Wet — 753 | 39|39]— Ditto — 802 | 39} 39} —|Ditto 
Sa.}7 | —856 | 37 |37|—|Cloudy — 868 | 34/34! 2 Cloudy —'931 |33}31| 2|Cloudy 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 177 


The benefits to be derived from such reports and journals 
as the present, must be at some future time, after a great many 
of them have been made, after a great many facts have been 
collected, and after they have been generalised by a mind 
devoted to the subject. These papers occupy thirty-five pages, 
but the only useful part of them that we can extract is the 
names of the makers of the instruments employed and the 
form of the tables, which may be useful to readers in the 
country who contemplate meteorological journals. We think 
them highly useful in gardens, by inducing habits of observ- 
ation and accuracy in young gardeners. 

Newman’s Barometer, Daniel’s Hygrometer, Rutherford’s 
Thermometer, made by Mr. Newman, Howard’s Rain-gauge, 
made also, we suppose, by Mr. Newman. 

The objects to be recorded are, 

“ Firstly. The state of the barometer, hygrometer, and 
weather, at three periods of observation; viz. morning, noon, 
and night. | 

‘‘ Secondly. The maximum and minimum of temperature 
in each day, distinguishing the temperature of radiation from 
the common temperature of the air. 

“‘ Thirdly. The direction and force of the wind. 

“ Fourthly. The amount of rain. 

“* Fifthly. General remarks on the state of the weather 
during each menth, with the means ofall the daily observations, 
showing the mean pressure, mean temperature, mean dew 
point, mean force of vapour, mean degree of dryness, mean 
degree of moisture, the least observed degree of moisture, the 
maximum and minimum of temperature, both of the atmo- 
Rte and of radiation; the direction of the wind, showing 
the number of days it blows from particular quarters.” 

The manner in which the book, or journal, is ruled and 
kept, is shown at the bottom of this and the preceding page. 


JANUARY. 

Temperature. Wind. Rain. 
a Remarks. 
a Max. | Min. | Sun. | Rad. |Dixection.|Force:| In. Pts. 
1} 45 36 44 35 S.E Brisk 10 | The beginning of this month was cold 
Q| 43 30 54 24, S.W.  |Little with brisk EKasterly winds. 
5} 38 | 32 | 47 | 98 E. Brisk On the 8th a very sharp frost commenced, 
4) 37 32 | 8 32 | ——— |Ditto and the air, as shown by the hygrometer, 
5} 35 35 35 35 —— /|Ditto ‘06 | was extremely dry during the 9th and 10th. 
6 oe) 36 39 35 —— Ditto ‘03 | The barometer was also unusually high for 
71 38 32 38 25 —— (Ditto the season. 


pm 


Vor-llle—= Noe lo: N 


178 Transactions of the Horticultural Soctety. 


12. On Orache, its Varieties and Cultivation. By Mr. Willian 
Townsend, Under-Gardener in the Kitchen-Garden Department 
of the Garden of the Horticultural Society at Chiswick. | 


The Garden Orache, or Mountain Spinach, Atriplex (4, 
privative, ¢repho, to nourish; imsipid food) horténsis, Ar- 
roche des Jardins, is more attended to in France than in 
Britain. In the former country it is used alone, and also 
mixed with sorrel, for the purpose of correcting the acidity of 
the latter. The quality of the spinach yielded by the orache 
is far inferior to that of the common spinach, and even of the 
New Zealand spinach, Tetragonia; but, the orache being a 
tall-growing plant, its leaves are produced so abundantly. 
during the whole summer, that a few plants yield sufficient 
produce for a small family. 

The sorts described by Mr. Townsend are, the White, 
Red-stalked White, Green, Red-stalked Green, Lurid Purple, 
and Red. Nothing can be more simple than the culture of 
these plants. Sow early in spring in drills two feet apart, and 
afterwards thin out the plants till they are two feet distant 
in the rows; or, what is better, sow in a bed or pot, and trans- 
plant at the above distances. A second sowing about the end 
of June will insure a succession of leaves, and the size and 
succulency of these will of course depend a good deal on the 
richness and moisture of the soil. 


13. On planting the Moist alluvial Banks of Rivers with Fruit 
Trees. In a Letter to the Secretary. By Mr. John Robert- 
son, F.H.S. 

The low alluvial soils through which rivers frequently pass 
are known to be favourable to the growth of fruit trees, unless 
in cases where they are subject to protracted inundations, which 
chill the soil, rot the roots, and canker the branches. Mr. 
Robertson had a thriving orchard on the margin of a river not 
liable to overflow its banks, but, in consequence of some mill- 
weirs being built across it, the water was raised to such a 
height as to keep the soil of the orchard in a constant state of 
saturation. ‘The trees soon became cankered, and began to 
decay; but, being determined to maintain an orchard there, 
Mr. Robertson formed the ground into high ridges or banks, 
with water ditches between, planting the trees along the tops 
of the banks. ‘They grew rapidly, and produced abundantly, 
owing, in a great measure, to the roots ‘ always necessarily 
protruding to the surface, where they receive more immediately 
the direct influence of the air, rain, and sun, and other agents 
conducive to vegetation.” Almost every drinking pond in the 


Transactions of the Florticultural Society. 179 


country affords a proof that the neighbourhood of water ex- 
posed to the air is not injurious to trees, provided the soil in 
which they grow be two or three feet higher than the water. 
It would appear, from Mr. Robertson’s experience, and the 
vigorous growth of fruit trees on the canal banks in Holland, as 
noticed in Neill’s very interesting Hortccultural Tour (p.260.), 
that fruit trees so situated will thrive and bear abundantly, 
with less bulk of soil for their roots, than under the ordinary 
circumstances of soil without exposed water. Water, in con- 
tact with air, becomes more or less impregnated by it, and 
may, in that state, afford to plants a more abundant supply of 
exygen, the vital principle both of plants and animals. 


14. On Dahlias. By Mr. William Smith, Under-Gardener in the 
Arboretum Department of the Garden of the Horticultural 
Society at Chiswick. 


The greatest improvement in the culture of dahlias has been 
the production of dwarfs. “For these desirable kinds of dahlias, 
we are principally indebted to William Wells, Esq. His 
gardener, Mr. Joseph Wells, possessing due knowledge of the 
qualities he wished his productions to possess, has succeeded 
in raising sorts which combine dwarfishness with early and 
abundant flowering, and produce blossoms of the most beauti- 
ful description. ‘They begin flowering in June, when not 
above a foot high, and continue to blossom in constant succes- 

. sion, till the autumn frosts divest them of their beauty; they 
seldom exceed three feet in height, and some are even more 
dwarf.” 

The varieties of the dahlia are as endless as those of the 
garden ranunculus; both produce abundance of seeds, and 
of both it may be said that no two seedlings were ever found 
alike. Mr. Smith remarks that “a few of the double 
dahlias which were raised at an early period'still hold a 
place in the estimation of gardeners, but, in general, those of 
a few years’ standing have yielded their places to a younger 
progeny, which in their turn may be deprived of their station 
by fresh productions. In the progress of improvement, it 
may be hereafter a matter of curiosity to ascertain what was 
considered a good dahlia at the present period; this, without 
a record such as-this paper will furnish, would be impossible. 
Thus we may indulge the hope that, in drawing up descriptions 
of the best flowers of the present day, we are not only amusing 
contemporary readers, but securing information to futurity.” 

Description of a good Double Dahlia. —“< The flower 
should be fully double, always filling the centre; the florets 

N 2 


180 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 

should be entire or nearly so, pointed or rounded, reflexed, 
and so forming a globular head, regular in their disposition, 
each series overlapping the other backwards; they may be 
either plain or quilled, but never distorted ; if, instead of being 
reflexed, the florets are recurved, the flower will be equally 
symmetrical. ‘The peduncles ought to be sufficiently strong 
to keep the blossoms erect, and consequently well exposed to 
view, and long enough to show the flowers free of the leaves ; 
if they are a littlé pendulous in the taller-growing sorts, they 
will have a more elegant appearance. ‘The plant ought to 
flower early and abundantly, and retain its characters until 
the end of the season. Bright and deep velvety colours are 
most admired.” 

Fifty tall and ten dwarf dahlias are described and arranged 
according to their colours; and, as these may be considered 
as forming a very complete collection, we shall enumerate 
their names as a guide to purchasers. 


Tatt Dautias. 


White. 


. Miller’s Royal Sovereign. 


1. Dutch White. 27. Douglas’s Ruby. 

2. Avathe Royal, or Agate White. 28. Lee’s Mutabilis. 

: Lilac. 29. Miller’s Sans Rival. 
. Grand Alexander. Light Crimson. 


. Agate Imperial. . 
. Lilac Striped. 
. Spring Grove Lilac. 


Light Purple. 


. L?Honneur d’Anvers. 
. Dodonzeus. 
. Princess Elizabeth. 


Deep Scarlet, or Blood Ked. 


7. Ma Favorite. 55. Wells’s Insignis. 
8. Speciosa. 34, Miller’s Beauté Supreme. 
Dark Purple. 55. Middleton’s Sovereign. 
9. Changeable Purple. 36. Wells’s Eclipse. 
10. Pulchra. 37. Wells’s Sunflower. 
11. Well’s Atropurpurea. Pure Scarlet. 
12. Douglas’s Royal Purple. 58. Wells’s Comet. 
15. Purpurea nigra. 59. Wells’s Filgida. 
Morone, or Dark Purplish Crimson. Orange. 
14. Morison. 40. Belvidere. 
15. Young’s Crimson. 41. Orange Hog. 
16. Sabini. 42. Koning Aza. 
17. Hetherington’s Waratah. uff, 
18. Douglas’s Chancellor. 45. Wells’s Fawn-coloured. 
19. Douglas’s Superb Crimson. 44, Royal Olive. 
20. Douglas’s DuchessofGloucester. 45, Camellizflora. 
21. Douglas’s Marquis. 46. Henriette. 
22, Young’s Fimbriata. Vellpun. 
25. Wells’s Crimson. 47. Sulphirea grandiflora. 
Bright Purplish Crimson. 4g. Lutéola. 
24, Douglas’s Beauty of England. 49, Sulphurea speciosa. 
25. Douglas’s E’legans. 50. Miller’s Straw-coloured. 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 18] 


Dwarr Dantias. 


Light Purple. Bright Purplish Crimson. 
51. Wells’s Floribanda. 55. Wells’s Bright Purple. 
Morone, or Dark Purplish 56. Wells’s Floribanda nana. 
Crimson. 57. Wells’s Excellent. 

52. Wells’s Victory. Buff: 
53. Wells’s Sanguinea. 58. Wells’s Gris-de-lin. 
54. Wells’s Princess Alexandrina 59. Tendre Agathe. 

Victoria. Yellow. 


60. Wells’s Dwarf Yellow. 


A very good way for an amateur in the country to give an 
order to his nurseryman, is, to write for one sort of each 
class, and that sort the cheapest ; sixteen plants, which may be 
purchased for less than 4/., will thus give a very good repre- 
sentation of the entire collection in the Chiswick garden. 

Mr. Smith offers nothing new on the cultivation of dahlias, 
unless it be that they do not succeed well when placed more 
than once in the same soil, “ and that, if it is desirable to have 
them always in one situation, it is necessary to renew the soil, 
by trenching it deeply the second, and taking it out and 
replacing it the third and succeeding years. It will seldom be 
found advisable to add manure; fresh soil is all that is 
necessary.” 

In a postscript it is observed that M. Poiteau, in the Bon 
Jardinier for 1827, has described 115 sorts of dahlia, the 
greater number of which, Mr. Smith thinks, “are perhaps 
strangers in cur gardens.” Another proof of the endless vari- 
ation of this flower. 


15. On the Cultivation of Camellias in an open Border. In a 
Letter to the Secretary. By Mr. Joseph Harrison. 


A double red, double white, and double striped camellia 
have stood two or three winters in a sheltered part of the 
shrubbery at Wortley Hall. The soil is a brown loam, upon 
a rocky substratum. We saw the plants in October, 1826, 
and found them healthy bushes, between three and four feet 
high; and Mr. Harrison informed us that they flower freely 
every year, from April to July. The white variety is the least 
vigorous in its growth. When camellias are to be grown in 
the open air, Mr. Harrison recommends the choice of strong 
bushy plants, well supplied with roots; to loosen the fibres 
outside of the balls, and spread them out in direct lines from 
the ball, so as they may push forward immediately into the 
soil of the border; and to place the balls so low that, when 
the soil is levelled, the top of the ball may be four inches 
below the surface. These directions we know from experience 

N 3 


182 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


to be of some importance, whether camellias are turned ont 
in the open garden, or in a conservatory. In dry, warm 
shrubberies there seems to be no doubt of the camellia en- 
during our winters. 


16. A Method of growing Crops of Melons on open Borders. By 
Mr. William Greenshiells, F.H.S. Gardener to Richard Benyon 
de Beauvoir, Esq. F.H.S. at Englefield House, in Berkshire. 
The mode of growing cucumbers on ridges or shallow beds 

of half-spent dung, in the open air, is well known to gardeners ; 

and, in warm situations, melons may be grown in the same 
manner. ‘The sorts grown by Mr. Greenshields were, the 

Black Rocks, Scarlet Rocks, Green-fleshed, Nettéd, and 

Karly Cantaloup. The seeds of the first crop were sown about 

the middle of March, in pots, in a cucumber frame, and the 

bed or ridge was prepared in the first or second week in May, 
four feet ride. and one foot higher at the back or north side 
than in front. Hand-glasses, ai two or three plants in each, 

are placed four feet apart, along the centre of the bed. Very 
little air is given till the plants have filled the glasses, but, 
when these appear to get crowded with vines, the glasses 
are raised up, and the plants allowed to grow out in the 
manner of ridged cucumbers. “ If the vines are very thick, 

a few of the weakest may be pinched off, and the top of each 

leading shoot or vine removed. No more pruning will be 

necessary for the season. Setting the fruit at this season of 
the year is quite unnecessary.” 

To have handsome fruit, not more than one or two should 
be left on a plant. They will begin to ripen about the first 
week in August, and continue to “be produced through that 
month, and part of September. To prolong the season, seeds 
may be sown three weeks later, planted out like the first crop, 
and, when there is an appearance of frosty nights, a cucumber 
frame and sashes may be placed over them. ‘“ By this means 
tolerably good melons may be had till the end of October.” 

17. Notice of Five Varieties of Pears, received from Jersey in the 
Year 1826. By Mr. John Lindley, F.L.S. &c. Assistant Secre- 
tary for the Garden. 

The sorts are, the Marie Louise, Duchesse d’ Angouléme, 
Doyenné gris, Doyenné panaché, Beurré d’Aremberg, known 
to be of first rate excellence. 

18. Upon the Culture of the Prinus Psetdo-Cerdsus, or Chinese 
Cherry. By Thomas Andrew Knight, Esq. F.R.S. &c. Pres. 
“© This cherry was introduced from China, by Mr. Samuel 

Brooks, of Ball’s Pond, in 1819, and he presented a plant of 


Transactions of the Horticultural Socievy. 183 


it in 1822 to. the Horticultural Society. In the year 1824, it 
produced a crop of fruit in one of the houses in the Chiswick 
garden, which ripened within fifty days from the time the 
blossoms opened.” 

Mr. Knight thinks it may ultimately become an acquisition 
of considerable value. Some attempts by him to propagate it 
by budding, and from seeds, failed, as did also an “ intention 
to have obtained a very early crop of cherries,” by his going 
from home a few days at the time he “ proposed to intro- 
duce the plant into the pine stove.” Mr. Knight. observed 
that this cherry put out very numerous roots from the bases 
of its young branches, similar to those often emitted in moist 
hot-houses by the vine; he thence inferred that it might be 
propagated by cuttings, and, having planted some, he states : 
** I have proved that plants may be thus raised with perfect 
facility.” 


19. On the Culture of the Pine-apple. _ By Mr. James Dall, Gar- 
dener to the Earl of Hardwicke, F.H.S. at Wimpole. 


The soil used by Mr. Dall is brown loam, two and a half 
parts, leaf mould one part, and sheep’s dung reduced to 
earth one part. Bottom heat 88° to 100°; atmospherical 
heat during nights 60° to 70°, during sunshine from 12° to 
15° higher. Suckers potted in June, in pots five and a half 
inches in diameter, were shifted into pots a size larger in 
October; again shifted in March, and the earth shaken from 
the roots; shifted in the July following; and, in the October 
of the second year, shifted into the pots destined for them to 
fruit in. “ The size of the pots at this shifting was about 
twelve inches in diameter, and two and a half feet deep.” After 
renewing their bark-bed, the pots are plunged little more 
than half their depth, and some time afterwards, when there 
is no danger of burning the roots, fresh dry tan is filled in 
between the pots as high as their tops., ‘‘ For the more safe 
and expeditious manner of filling tan round the pots that are 
partly plunged in the bark-bed, as here stated, a pipe or 
funnel made of sheet-iron is used; the mouth that receives the 
tan is fifteen inches’, and the lower end four and a half inches’ 
diameter, with two handles fixed to it, so that the operator 
easily holds it while a lad is filling in the bark from a flower- 
pot.” ‘The water used for watermg the plants is never less 
than 80° or 85°; in warm weather they are watered over- 
head. Always after shifting the plants are shaded during 
the heat of the day for at least a fortnight. The deep pots 

N 4 


184 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


and the funnel for filling in tan are new features, and the 
whole system has the great merit of simplicity. 


20. On forcing Asparagus. By Mr. James Dail, Gardener to the 
Karl of Hardwicke, F.H.S. at Wimpole. 
Hot-beds are formed of leaves instead of dung, and the 
plants are taken up with balls of earth attached to them; the 
rest is routine. 


21. Observations on forcing Garden Rhubarb. By Mr. William 
Stothard, Under-Gardener in the Experimental Fruit and 
Kitchen Garden Department of the Garden of the Horticul- 
tural Society at. Chiswick. 

The essence of this paper was given by us at the time it 

was read. (Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 356.) 


22. Account of some remarkable Holly Hedges and Trees in Scot- 
land. By Joseph Sabine, Esq. F.R.S. &c. Secretary. 

In a journey which Mr. Sabine made in Scotland, in the 
autumn of 1825, so far from finding the country without trees, 
like Dr.Johnson, he was “ much struck with the beauty and _ 
size of the holly hedges and trees,” especially the following : — 

At Tynningham, East Lothian, are 2952 yards of holly 
hedge, in different lengths, of different heights of from 10 to 
25 teet, and of widths from 9 to 13 feet. ‘These hedges, 
with the exception of one, “are regularly clipped in each 
year, in April; the work occupying the time of five labourers 
about three weeks. The hedges are kept with an even ex- 
terior, and contracted towards the top. ‘They are carefully 
protected from the bite of cattle, and especially from sheep, 
which are very fond of the bark, shoots, and young leaves of 
the holly. They are planted on raised banks, which in most 
cases are kept dry by ditches on one or both sides. ‘The soil 
in which the most vigorous growth is apparent is a deep 
light loam. ‘The plants do not grow so luxuriantly when it 
is either sand or clay, and less well when it is moist with a 
retentive subsoil. The object of the banks and ditches here 
noticed, was to keep the roots dry and well drained.” ‘The 
largest single holly at T'ynningham measures 5 feet 3 inches in 
circumference, at three feet from the ground ; the stem is clear 
of branches to 14 feet high, and the total height of the tree 
is 54 feet. ‘The hedges were for the most part planted in 
1712. 

At Collinton House, near Edinburgh, are holly hedges 
which exceed those of Tynningham in size as well as age, 
though not of such extended length. They are supposed 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 185 


to have been planted in 1670 and 1680, are in vigorous 
health, and clipped and pruned once in every three years. 
“The extent of the hedges altogether is 1120 feet, those 
on the sides of the grass walk being 200 feet each; the 
eastern and western hedges of the garden nearest the house 
are each 170 feet; the eastern and western hedges of the 
farthest garden ‘are each 190 feet. Their breadth at the 
bottom is 15 feet, which diminishes to 2 feet at the top. 
The height varies from 25 to 28 feet, but appears from below 
to be very even, notwithstanding the difference. They form 
a beautiful and secure protection to the gardens, of which 
that next the pleasure-grounds is planted with American and 
evergreen shrubs, and the other with deciduous shrubs.” 

At Moredun, near Edinburgh, is a holly hedge planted in 
the beginning of the last century, by Sir James Stewart, Bart. 
It is 378 feet long, 20 feet high, 9 feet wide at bottom, and 
4 feet wide at top. It is annually pruned and brought into 
shape with hedge shears. 

At Hopetoun House, near Queensberry, are some very fine 
single holly trees; the largest is 50 feet high, and has a clean 
trunk of 20 feet, measuring, at three feet from the ground, 
5 feet 8 inches in circumference. Several are of equal height, 
with trunks of from 10 to 20 feet long; some are variegated, 
but these are rather of smaller dimensions. 

At Gordon Castle, near Fochabers, in Banffshire, on an ex- 
tensive bank facing the west, are a great number of hollies, 
and also birches, geans, ashes, and alders, apparently of 
spontaneous growth. “ Few of the hollies stand single; 
several appear to spring from the same root, as if they had 
shot up from the stump after the original tree had been cut 
down, and many grow very close together, forming jointly a 
grand mass. ‘The stumps of the former trees are in some in- 
stances perceptible, and in others, the earth on the sloping 
parts of the bank having fallen away from the roots, shows the 
origin of the present growth to have been the original stock. 

“‘ One group, where the bank is rather flat, consists of fifty- 
five trees, growing in a spot not quite 134 feet in circumfe- 
rence; and the girth of these, at six feet from the ground, is 
from 3 feet 6 inches to 18 inches. ‘There are altogether 73 
groups of holly trees, the trees forming which are in number 
508; and of these 87 have trunks, free from branches, from 
8 to 14 feet high, and are from 3 to 44 feet in girth, at six feet 
from the ground : four are larger, two girthing 5 feet 10 inches, 
one 4 feet 10 inches, and one 4 feet 3 inches, at the above 
height. At the southern extremity of the bank, where the 


186 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


slope is small, it is covered by smaller hollies, growing so 
thickly together that a man cannot pass through them; they 
appear to have arisen from seed, and are of younger growth 
than the others; they exceed 100 in number, but none are 
more than 2 feet in girth. On the flat ground adjoming the 
bottom of the southern part of the bank, some hollies of large 
dimensions grow, the measurement of the two best of which 
is as follows: — First, 52 ft. high; girth at the root, 7 ft. 5 in., 
at six feet, 5 ft. 7in.; height to branches, 10 ft. 6 in.: second, 
43 ft. 9 in. high; girth at the root, 4 ft. 9 in.; at six feet, 
4 ft. 9 in.; height to branches, 8 ft.6 in. The first of these 
trees divides, after the above height, into three large branches ; 
the second into two branches. A few of the hollies on the 
bank are nearly as tall as the above. 

‘‘ The alders have, when viewed at a distance, very much the 
appearance of oaks. ‘The dimensions of three of them are 
as follows: — One, 71 ft. high, and 9 ft. 4 in. in girth; one, 
614 ft. high, and 7 ft. 4 im. in girth; one, 58 ft. high, and 
8 ft. in girth; the girths being taken at from five to six feet 
from the ground. 

«There is no record existing relative to these singular trees, 
nor any account of their age: none have been felled, except- 
ing those which have exhibited symptoms of decay, within the 
knowledge of any person now alive.” 


23. An Account of a Plan of heating Stoves by means of Hot Water, 
employed in the Garden of Anthony Bacon, Esq. F.H.S. By Mr. 
William Whale, Gardener to Mr. Bacon. 


After twenty years’ experience in forcing, both with brick 
flues and steam, Mr. Whale gives “the preference to the 
method Mr. Bacon has adopted of heating his houses with 
hot water.” 

«‘ Brick flues are subject, from their numerous joints, and 
the mortar cracking, to give out at times a sulphureous gas 
which is injurious to plants; and even with two fire-places, 
in a house forty or fifty feet long, it is impossible to keep up 
an equal temperature in the whole length. The houses get 
overheated in the neighbourhood of the fire-place, and it is 
difficult to maintain a proper warmth at the extremities of the 
flues. 

‘“¢ Steam may do very well on a large scale, and where 
there is constant attention to the fire both day and night; 
but the objections are, the great expense of a steam-boiler, 
and the apparatus belonging to it; the frequent repairs that 
are required, and the necessary attention to the fire, which is 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 187 


as great upon a small scale as upon a large one. Besides 
this, there is a greater risk of explosion in a hot-house steam- 
boiler than in that of a steam-engine; for steam-engines 
generally have persons properly instructed to manage them, 
but gardeners or their assistants cannot be so competent. 

“* The heating with hot water has none of the objections I 
have mentioned as belonging to flues and steam. ‘The appa~ 
ratus is simple, and not liable to get out of order. The 
boiler has only a loose wooden cover, and no safety valves are 
required. ‘The fuel consumed is very moderate; and, when 
once the water is heated, very little attention is wanted, for it 
retains its heat for many hours after the fire has gone out.” 

Mr. Bacon had, in 1822, put this mode of heating in prac- 
tice on a small scale, at his seat at Abearnen, in Glamorgan- 
shire; and Mr. Atkinson, the distinguished architect, had, at 
his residence of Grove End, constructed a model of a similar 
apparatus, without at the time having any communication with 
Mr. Bacon, with which he tried the experiment successfully. 
The garden at Elcot contains four houses for vines and 
peaches, and also a pine pit heated with hot water, and Mr. 
Whale gives the vinery as a specimen of the mode in which 
this is effected. 

“‘ The house (jigs. 52. and 53.) is forty feet long and ten feet 
wide inside, heated by a boiler (a), placed in a recess in the 


o c 10 


centre of the back wall: the fire-place under the wall is got 
at from a back shed (6). The boiler is two feet six inches 
long, one foot six inches wide, and one foot eight inches deep. 
From the end of the boiler proceed, horizontally, four cast- 
iron pipes of three and a half inches’ diameter (c): two of them 
‘are joined to the boiler just above the bottom, and the other 


188 Transactions of the Horticultural Soczety. 


two directly above these, and just below the surface of the 
water. ‘The house is divided by glazed partitions into three 
compartments (d ef), for the convenience of forcing one part 


53 


without the other. The middle compartment is two lights in 
width, and the other two have four lights each. The pipes 
from the boiler go horizontally to the front of the house, where 
one upper and one lower pipe branch to the east compartment, 
and other two pipes to the west, and are carried to the ends 
of the house along the sides of the flues, where they unite to 
cast-iron reservoirs at each end of the house (g ¢); which re- 
servoirs are each three feet six inches long, one foot six inches 
wide, and one foot eight inches deep, having iron covers. 
These reservoirs are filled with water, that communicates, by 
means of the pipes, with the water in the boiler. 

«© When the boiler, pipes, and reservoirs are filled, and a fire 
lighted under the boiler, the heated water, ascending to the 
top of the boiler, forces its way along the upper pipes to the 
reservoirs, the cold water finding its way back to the bottom 
of the boiler through the under pipes; and the circulation con- 
tinues regular as long as there is any heat under the boiler, the » 
hot water flowing through the upper pipes to the reservoir, and, 
as it cools, returning back to the boiler through the under pipes. 
I have repeatedly, after the water has been heated, immersed 
a thermometer in the reservoirs at the ends of the house, and 
have only found a difference of three or four degrees between 
that and the water in the boiler. It is not necessary to make 
the water boil; and, if the fire is judiciously managed, no steam 
will be raised, and no water wasted. It is, however, necessary 
to examine the boiler occasionally, and to add water when 
any has evaporated. 


‘ 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 189 


“ Valves might be fixed in the boiler, pipes, and reservoirs, 
for letting steam into the house, if required; but that would 
induce the necessity of boiling the water, and it has not been 
done here, as I find I can produce all the steam I require 
with little trouble, by watering the pipes with a watering pot.” 

“‘ T am persuaded that the advantages of this mode of heat- 
ing, with its great simplicity, will give satisfaction to every 
practical gardener who has an opportunity of trying it. When 
once the water is heated, and the fires well made, he may re- 
tire to rest, certain that the pipes will not get cold during the 
night, but retain a considerable heat in the morning.” 


In order that we might be able to form an opinion on this 


subject from personal observation, we have lately examined | 


some hot-houses at Deepdene and Rooksnest in Surrey, and 
Bickley Place and Sundridge Park in Kent, heated by water 
on the above plan, in some cases with a little variation, and 
the conviction on our mind is entirely in unison with the opi- 
nion expressed by Mr. Whale. 

At Deepdene an orangery is heated by the circulation of 
the water through iron pipes without the addition of a cistern, 
the reservoirs of heat which that addition would supply being 
considered unnecessary. At Rooksnest all the houses and 
pits were heated by steam, in 1819, with perfect success; but 
no sooner was the water system discovered and tried, than Mr. 
Turner, convinced of its superiority over steam, discontinued 
the use of the steam-boiler, and adapted the steam-pipes to the 
water system described by Mr. Whale. On the evening of 
September 27th, we examined two pits heated in this way, 
and marked the progress of the circulation of the heated 
water, which with a moderate fire proceeded at the rate of two 
feet ina minute. On returning to these pits in the following 
morning, though nothing had been done to the fire after nine 
o’clock the preceding evening, we found the pipes still warm. 
The gardener, Mr. Squib, a very superior cultivator, who has 
filled his situation at Rooksnest for several years, and had ex- 
tensive experience both with steam and smoke, entirely agrees 
with Mr. Whale in his preference of the water system to every 
other. 

At Bickley, near Bromley, two houses are heated by water 
from one boiler, each house having a reservoir at the end 
opposite to the boiler; in one house, the pipes used are of 


earthenware, the joints cemented with Roman cement, and 


perfectly watertight. ‘The gardener, Mr. Wells, of superior 
abilities in his profession, and of some of whose practices we 
hope to render an account at some future time, is as much in 


190 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


favour of water as Mr. Squib, and considers earthenware pipés 
as perfectly sufficient, and, perhaps, in some cases, superior to 
- metal, from the genial though almost invisible moisture which 
exudes through the pores of the material. 

At Sundridge Park, an extensive conservatory and two 
vineries are heated by hot water, which is impelled through 
the pipes, to a certain extent, by the expansive power of the 
steam in the boiler. This work is believed to be the invention 
of Count Chabbanes; it is very ingenious, and deserves to be 
recorded as one of the first steps in the progress of heating by 
hot water; but the mode described by Mr. Whale is so superior, 
so much more simple and economical, that it is not likely 
Chabbanes’s method will ever be repeated. The kitchen-gar- 
dener here, Mr. Thomson, understands both methods per- 
fectly, prefers that of Mr. Whale, and has constructed a model 
for heating a vinery by Mr. Whale’s method, where the pipes 
must pass under a footpath considerably below the level of 
the boiler. 

As the water, by all these plans, circulates on a level, it 
may, at first sight, appear that this is a necessary condition to 
success ; but a little reflection will render it evident that, if the 
height which the water stands in the boiler and the reservoirs 
be equal, and as high as the highest part of the pipes, the 
circulation between them will take place, however low the 
pipes may descend. If the covers of the boiler and reservoirs 
be fixed and watertight, a perpendicular pipe from each 
(jig. 54. a a), kept filled to the proper height, will have the 


ii 


same effect as if the full dimensions of the boiler (6) and reser- 
voir (c) had been so extended. The pipes between a boiler 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. «191 


and reservoir so adjusted may be conducted in any direction, 
and ascend and descend at pleasur e, or in the most irregular 
manner (d e), so as they never rise higher than the level of the 
water in the boiler and reservoir (a a). ” The cold water pipe (f) 
and warm water pipe (¢), provided they proceed from the 
boiler and enter the reservoir, the former lower than the latter, 
may be placed side by side in the space to be heated, either 
under the path of a hot-house (), or so high (7) as to be out of 
the way of plants, or of persons walking in the paths. Hence 
hot-walls and the different floors of a “dwellinghouse may be 
heated on this plan with the same facility as hot-houses, pits, 
or frames. For example, if Messrs. Loddiges, at Hackney, or 
Mr. Gunter, at Earl’s Court, were to alter their mode of heat- 
ing from that of steam to that of water, as their boilers are 
considerably above the level of the steam-pipes, all that would 
be necessary to procure a circulation of water in these pipes 
would be to have elevated reservoir tubes at the extremities 
of the different portions of their range, which they are in the 
habit of heating separately. These pipes need not be above 
an inch in diameter, and may be so bent and concealed as 
not to obtrude on the view, or in the slightest degree inter- 
fere with effect. All that is necessary is to recollect the fun- 
damental principle of equal pressure. A very slight perusal 
of the article Hydrostatics, in No. 1. of the Lzbrary of Useful 
Knowledge (8vo, many cuts, 6d.), will explain this principle 
to any gardener of ordinary capacity. It is proper to state, 

_ however, that this mode of heating will always be carried 
into effect at least cost on level surfaces. 

It is a gratifying proof of an enlarged and liberal mind in 
Mr. Turner to find that he who first suggested to Messrs. 
Loddiges the advantage of heating their houses by steam, and 
by be means of fea example aaa his own, has mainly con- 
tributed to spread that mode of heating throughout the country, 
should have been one of the earliest to adopt a superior 
method. ‘To give the system that popularity which it de- 
serves, it only remains for Messrs. Loddiges and Mr. Gunter 
to turn their steam-pipes into water-pipes; and though it is 
not very reasonable to suppose that tradesmen will be so free 
in adopting alterations as men of fortune, yet, though we have 
never spoken to either of the parties mentioned on the sub- 
ject, we should not be at all surprised at seeing the change 
effected. At all events, we are certain of this, that steam will 
never again be employed in gardening, as a medium of con- 
veying heat. If all those who now employ it in that way do 
not adopt the water system, so much the worse for them. 


192 Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 


It was mentioned to us by Mr. Wood of Deepdene, a gar- 
dener of more than common talent, taste, and industry, that a 
considerable saving of fuel was obtained by this mode of heat- 
ing. We could not at the time conceive how there could be 
much difference in this respect; but, on since looking over 
some papers in the Mechanic's Magazine, Nos. 211, 212, and 
213., by Mr. Gilman, civil engineer, we are inclined to think 
this may be accounted for, at least as compared with heating 
by steam, from the circumstance of more heat being frequently 
generated to boil water, than the water in that state can take 
up. In heating by hot water, the water seldom exceeds 150°, 
and at that temperature it would appear to have a greater 
capacity for taking up heat, than either in a cold or boiling 
state. 

Since the above was written, we have seen two houses in 
Mr. Henderson’s nursery, Kdgeware Road, heated in the 
Elcot manner, and have learned that several of the hot-houses 
at Woodlands, Blackheath, the Clapton nursery, and other 
places, are fitting up for the same method of heating. — Cond. 


Art. II. Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 
Vol. IV. Part I. 


(Continued from p. 62.) 


4, On the economical Arrangement of Fruit Trees in a small Garden. 
By Mr. John Dick, Gardener, Ballendean. 

Puant and train in the espalier manner ; the rows of espa- 
liers north and south, at the distance of eight feet, and the 
height of the espalier rails five feet. Plant trees upon crab 
stocks, at twenty feet distance, on one side of the rails, for per- 
manent trees, and others on paradise stocks, at fifteen feet 
distance, on the other side of the rails, for temporary trees. 
The ground between the rows will produce vegetables of much 
better flavour than those grown under the shade of standard 
trees. Mr. Dick has given a diagram, showing that the sha- 
dow produced by an espalier rail, five feet high, in latitude 
56°, on the 3d of September at noonday, will not exceed eight 
feet, the distance between his rows of trees. He gives this 
diagram because ‘“ some persons might be afraid of the sun’s 
shadowing the espalier rows too much;” but, as these rows 
are south and north, no shadow will be produced by the sun 
at midday, throughout the year. The diagram is therefore 
useless, if not deceptive, and Mr. Dick should rather have 


Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 193 


shown what shadow would be thrown by the one row of trees 
on the other, in the ripening season of cherries and apples, at 
ten and two o'clock. In latitude 56°, on the 23d of Septem- 
ber, at two o’clock, he will find one foot of the lower part of 
the west side of each row in shade, and of course this breadth 
of darkness will increase from that time till sunset: from sun- 
rise till midday, the proportion of the east side of each row 
in shade will gradually diminish; at ten o’clock the pro- 
portion in shade will of course be the same as on the west side 
at two o’clock. We mention these particulars, not as to the 
disadvantage of Mr. Dick’s plan, which we think unobjection- 
able in its kind, but merely to show the proper mode of con- 
sidering the subject of shade as applied to it. ‘The Society’s 
silver medal was voted to Mr. Dick, ‘ for devising this advan- 
tageous mode of arranging dwarf fruit trees in a garden.” 


5. Description of an economical Pit for preserving Vegetables 
and Salads during Winter, and raising early Vegetables and 
Salads in the Spring. By Mr. Alexander Stewart, Gardener to 
Sir Robert Preston, Bart., Valleyfield. 


The same pit which is described in the Horticultural Trans- 
actions, and in the Gardener’s Magazine, vol. ii. p.414., and 
for which Mr. Stewart received the Caledonian Society’s silver 
medal. 


6. On the Utility of employing Grass Turf, or Sward, in forward- 
ing early Crops of certain Vegetables. By Mr. Alexander Bisset, 
Gardener at Methven Castle. 


This practice, as far as respects early peas, has been de- 
scribed by our correspondent, Mr. Bishop. (Gard. Mag., vol. i. 
p- 126.) Mr. Bisset raises early potatoes, beans, and cauli- 
flower plants, and even forces strawberries, in the same 
manner. 

“ The turf for a potato crop is cut into pieces of about 
three or four inches square: these are placed in a close, irre- 
gular manner, over the surface of the beds, and only one tuber 
or cutting planted in each piece of turf. ‘This should be done 
about the middle of February; and by the time the potato 
plants have reached to the height of three or four inches, it 
will be found necessary to remove them to a sheltered and 
south-aspected border, where they are to produce their crop. 
But it may be here observed, that, as the application of bot- 
tom heat is in this instance essentially necessary, another de- 
sirable point may, without any additional labour, be gained ; 
for, while the greater part of the potato plants may be removed 

Vou. III. — No. 10. fo) 


194 Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 


with safety, and transplanted into the open border, a part of, 
the plants may be left in the pits, in such a manner as if they 
had been planted therein, for the express purpose of producing 
their crop. ‘This being attended to, new potatoes may be had 
occasionally for the table after the middle of April; whilst a 
succession from the same plants may be afforded by the 
middle, or towards the end, of May.” 

Beans, both common and kidney, may be raised in a similar 
manner to the potatoes, only placing three or four seeds on 
each piece of turf. 

Cauliflower plants, planted on pieces of turf in autumn, will 
remove with much greater facility in the following spring, and 
therefore the plants may be allowed to remain under glass till 
they attain a large size, and then they may be removed to the 
open border without checking their growth. , 

‘¢ Strawberrics. — Upon the same principle, turf may be 
employed with advantage in the forcing of strawberries, by 
means of which the use of pots might be altogether dispensed 
with. This will be evident, from the following description. 
At the proper season of planting the strawberries, let a small 
piece of ground be formed into beds about four feet wide, and 
a quantity of turf be taken and cut into pieces of about five or 
six inches square, which should be placed in a regular manner 
over the surface of the beds. A quantity of fresh loam, richly 
manured, should uniformly be applied to the surface of the 
turf, previous to planting ; and in order to furnish large stools, 
four or five plants should be separately planted in each piece 
of turf. This may be done to best advantage in the early part 
of the spring season, with plants taken from the runners of the 
preceding year; or, it may otherwise be accomplished with 
good effect in the end of summer, with plants selected from 
the runners produced the same year. If due attention be paid 
to watering in dry weather, the plants will be found to grow 
vigorously, so that, by the end of the autumn season, their 
roots will be fully established in the turf, and they may there- 
fore be removed to the forcing-pit, with nearly as little injury | 
done to them as if they had been planted in pots. It will be 
readily perceived, that, in this case, the strawberry plants, with 
their roots in possession of the turf, must of necessity be 
planted in a ball of earth or decayed compost, prepared in the 
forcing-pit appropriated for that purpose. In regard to the 
kind of strawberry fittest for our purpose, I may mention, that 
among the various kinds that I have yet become acquainted 
with, I consider the voseberry the most valuable for the turf 
mode: though it can by no means be allowed to be the earliest, 


Catalogue of Botanical Works, &c.  . 195 


nor the best in point of flavour, yet it is a strawberry which 
invariably yields a plentiful crop even the first season after 
planting, which, independent of its other properties, renders 
it a most appropriate strawberry for being forced. But it 
may nevertheless be stated, that all such kinds of strawberries 
as are capable of being forced with advantage in pots, may be 
done so likewise with turf; for, if it be taken from a stiff soil, 
it will last for two years; and at the end of that period, it will 
still be found to possess its adhesive or binding properties.” 

Annual flowers may be forwarded on turf at the commence- 
-ment of summer, and transplanted in patches in the flower-bor- 
ders at any stage of growth, and without receiving the least 
check. 

‘“‘ The same practice may be followed with the more tender 
kinds of stocks, wallflowers, &c., by sowing or transplanting 
them at the proper season, and keeping them under shelter 
during winter, which, in the following spring, may be removed 
and planted in the flower-borders with perfect safety.” 

Near London, where turf is expensive, and even difficult to 
be got for money, pots will be found more suitable and eco- 
nomical; but in the country Mr. Bisset’s plan promises many 
advantages. He was very properly rewarded with the Society’s 
silver medal. 

(To be continued.) 


Art. III. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, 
Rural Architecture, &c., published since August last, with some 
Account of those considered the most interesting. 


BRITAIN. 


Curtis’s Botanical Magazine, or Flower-Garden displayed; New Series. 
Edited by Dr. Hooker. In 8vo Numbers. 3s. 6d. coloured ; 3s. plain. 


No. IX. for September, contains 

2762 to 2769. — Tulipa stellata, Stellated Hast Indian'Tulip. From Ku- 
mana, Kast Indies, by Dr. Wallich, to the Liverpool botanic garden. Green- 
house ; but will probably prove hardy enough to bear the open air. “Cer- 
tainly a most valuable acquisition to our gardens.” — Calypso borealis, 
Orchidez. Northern parts of Europe and America. Deserving a place in 
every collection. — Octoméria graminifolia ; Orchideze. An epiphyte, with 
a creeping rooting stem, and much of the habit and growth of a tern. From 
the West Indies in 1793. Stove; April ; “ and the blossoms yield a delight- 
ful fragrance, most powerful in the evening.— Trixis auriculata ; 19 and 1, 
Composite. From Mr. Otto, of Berlin, under the name of Perdicium 
brasiliénse. — Justicia ventricdsa; 10 and 1, and Acanthicea. A shrub 
from China, of the easiest culture in the stove. —Hudnymus echinita ; 

0 2 


196 Catalogue of Botanical Works. 


Prickly-fruited Spindle-wood. A shrub from Nepal, climbing to a great 
distance. — Witheringia montana, St. Lorenzo Potato; 5 and 1, and So- 
lanacez ; the Solanum montanum of Ruiz and Pavon, and S. Laurénti of 
Dr. Mitchill, who, in his address to the Horticultural Society of New York 
(reviewed, p.97.), recommends its culture, as keeping longer than the 
common potato. The roots are about the size of a chestnut, yellow, and 
of a good flavour ; employed by the Indians in their soups and ragouts, and, 
aceording to Ruis and Pavon, excellent for fattening swine. It may be 
cultivated like the common potato, or treated like a common green-house 
plant. — Astrum canadénse ; 11 and 1, and Aristolochiée. A hardy peren- 
nial from North America, cultivated in England before 1715, and deserving a 
place in every collection, from the singular construction of its flowers. Krom 
the aromatic flavour of the root, it is much employed in Canada and Ca- 
rolina as ginger. It flowers from April to July. 


No. X. for October, contains 

2770 to 2776.— Banksia integrifolia. — Mirbélia grandiflora; Legu- 
minose. — Hutchinsia stylosa ; Cruciferze. A pretty little plant like Draba. 
From elevated places in the Neapolitan mountains. Flowers in March and 
April of a fine purplish rose colour, with the fragrance of the Heliotrope. 
It will probably prove a valuable addition to our hardy alpines—Oncidium 
pulchéllum ; Orchideze. Epiphytic. Stove.—Scilla esculénta flore 4lbo.— 
Calceolaria purpurea. From the Cordilleras, by Mr. Cruickshanks, to the 
Edinburgh and Glasgow botanic gardens in 1826. Resembles C. corym- 
bosa (Gard. Mag., vol. i. p. 187), but with purple flowers. —Gesneria ver- 
ticillata; Gesnérie. “Beautiful and graceful,” and “ in every way deserv- 
ing of more extended cultivation.” Stove. 


Edwards’s Botanical Register. Continued by John Lindley, F.L.S. In svo 
Numbers. 4s. coloured. 


No. CLI. for September, contains 

1088 to 1095.— Géum (from geyo, to communicate a good taste; roots 
aromatic) coccineum; 12 and 1, and Rosacez. An “ extremely beautiful, 
hardy perennial,” supposed to be a native of Chile, and communicated by M. 
Balbis of Lyons to most of the principal gardens of Europe. [One of the finest 
hardy herbaceous Rosacez that have been introduced since Potentilla atro- 
sanguinea.] Hasy culture. — Grevillea juniperina ; 4 and'i, and Proteacee. 
A New Holland shrub, with the aspect of a juniper bush; of the easiest 
culture. — Sisyrinchium cyanéum. From Kangaroo Island, by Mr. William 
Baxter, collector to F. Henchman, Esq. F'.L.S. H.S.— Caméllia Sasdnqua 
flore pléno. Mr. William Beattie Booth, of the Horticultural Society’s 
garden, is occupied on a complete history of Camellias. — Pitcairnia 
flammea; 6 and 1, and Bromelidcee. A noble addition to the genus Pit- 
cairnia. From Rio Janeiro, by Mr. William Harrison, “to whose exertions 
we owe the introduction of a larger number of rare Brazilian plants, than 
to those of any other individual.” Stove; culture of the pine-apple. — 
.O'’phrys (ophrys, eyebrow; arched. form of the calyx) tenthredinifera 
var. minor ; Orchideze. A beautiful little plant, from hiily places in Sicily 
and other places upon the European shores of the Mediterranean. — Vale- 
riqnélla congésta, Close-headed Corn-Salad. A beautiful annual. “The 
handsomest species of the genus; red flowers; perfectly hardy, and easily 
cultivated in the open border of the flower-garden.” From the north-west 
coast of North America, by Mr. Douglas, in 1826, to the Horticultural So- 
ciety.— Cyclamen (Ayhlas, circular ; root, or spiral coil of the flower-stalks 
when the seed is ripening) pérsicum var. laciniatum. A cut-flowered 
variety of Cyclamen, which made its appearance accidentally among some 
seedlings in the garden of the Countess of Sandwich at Hinchingbrook. 


Catalogue of Botanical Works. 197 


No. CLIL. for October, contains 

1096 to 1102.— Lupinus polyphyllus. (fig. 55.) One of fourteen new 
species, mostly perennials, discovered by Mr. 
David Douglas in the north-west of North 
America, and which “ will prove some of the 
most valuable additions that have been made 
to our garden collections for many years.” 
A noble plant, with purple flowers. —Ehretia 
serrata, raised by Mr. Colville, from seeds 
received of Prof. Anthony Todd Thomson, 
M.D. Stove; peat and loam; cuttings.— 
Plectranthus australis; Labiate. Herba-« 
ceous; green-house.—Calothamnus villosa ; 
Myrtaceee.—Clarkia pulchélla. ( fig. 56.) By 
Mr. David Dou- 
Sz ~N glas, tothe Hor- 
ticultural Soci- 
ety. “A hardy | 
annual, requirmg no care in its cultivation ; 
growing to the height of one and a half to two 
feet, and producing its singular bright rose-co- 
loured blossoms from May to September. Whe- 
ther we consider the facility with which it can 
be managed, the curious and very unusual con- 
formation of the petals, stamens, and stigma, 
or the brilliancy of its colours, this must be 
pronounced to be by far the most remark- 
able hardy annual that has lately been intro- 
duced, except the CoreGpsis tinctoria.”” — 
A’mphodus (amphi, on both sides, odous, a 
tooth ; a tooth on each side of the processes of 
the base of thevexillum)ovatus; Leguminose. 
From Trinidad, by Lady Hulse, to Mr. John 
Anderson, F.L.S. H.S. the indefatigable super- 
intendent of the apothecaries’ garden, at Chel- 
sea; an excellent and benevolent man, with 
a mind of great independence, and considerable originality, and one of 
the best friends of young gardeners.— Verbena paniculata. A hardy 

perennial from Virginia. 


Botanical Cabinet. By Messrs. Loddiges. In 4to and 8vo Parts. 5s. and 2s. 6d. 


Part CX XV. for September, contains 

1241 to 1250. — Platylébium parviflorum. A shrub of low growth from 
New South Wales in 1792. Sandy peat and seeds. — 42’sculus rubiciinda. 
One of the most beautiful of hardy trees, rather smaller than the common 
horse-chestnut. Grafting on the common species and easiest culture.— rica 
imbricata. — Dicliptera spinosa. A neat little stove plant of easy culture. 
— Veltheimia viridifolia. A stove bulb nearly allied to Allétris. — Acacia 
virgata. A free-flowering New Holland shrub, well adapted for a con- 
servatory.— Hriostémon cuspidatum. An elegant glaucous-leaved shrub 
from New South Wales, in 1823, to Messrs. Loddiges. Usual culture of 
plants of that country. — Bétula rubra. A hardy tree from Canada, pro- 
bably attaining a large size. Well worthy of cultivation, and thrives in any 
soil.— Viola pubéscens. North American, and quite hardy. — Prunus 
dasycarpa. One of the earliest flowering trees, usually in bloom in March 
pas hardy. Introduced from Siberia many years since, but never much 

nown. 


Oo 3 


ts 


198 ‘Catalogue of Botanical Works. 


‘Part CXXVI. for October, contains 

1251 to 1260. — Phléx pilosa. A beautiful perennial plant from the 
warmer parts of the United States; requires placing in a frame during 
winter, and flowers in May and June. Loam and peat. — Spiree‘a crenata. 
A very hardy handsome shrub from Spain and Russia, flowering in April 
and May. Light soil; layers and suckers. — Azalea indica alba. — Linum 
- campanulatum. — Azalea speciosa. ‘“ A charming subject,’ with deep 
orange flowers in May and June. — Gentidna bavarica. Pretty ; not ex- 
ceeding two inches in height. — ’sculus pavia. — Asclépias quadrifolia. 
— Erica pinea purpurea. — Uvularia pubérula; J/Zelanthaceee. A perennial 
from the mountains of Carolina. 


Flora Australasica. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. &c. Monthly. 3s. coloured ; 
2s. plain. 
No. IV. for September, contains 

15 to 16. — Hovea purptirea; 17 and 10, and Leguminosz Papilionaceze 
Loteze Genisteze. A dwarf-branching erect shrub, the finest species of the 
genus, excepting H. Célsi.— Banksea marcéscens, Inactive Banksia. A 
stout, bushy, evergreen shrub, from Lewin’s Land, on the south coast of 
New Holland. — Patersonia lanata; Jridéee. A tufted, herbaceous, peren- 
nial plant, of the usual culture. — Anthocércis (anthos, a flower, kerkis, a 
radius; segments of the corolla like rays) albicans. A dwarf-branching 
evergreen shrub; presented to Mr. Mackay of Clapton by Mr. Aiton of 
Kew. ‘This and the two first species are cultivated in the usual manner of 
Australasian shrubs ; viz. loam, peat, and sand; and cuttings of young wood, 
in sand under a bell. 


No. V. for October, contains 

17 to 20. — Anthocércis littoréa. A handsome shrub from King George’s 
Sound, with yellow flowers in June. — Charlwoddia congésta; Asphodeléz 
Fruticose. About twelve feet high, with bluish lilac flowers in June. 
Named by Mr. Sweet in compliment to his “ respected friend, Mr. George 
Charlwood, of London, an assiduous botanist,”’ and, we may add, a man of 
a cultivated, liberal, and independent mind.—Boronia serrulata; Rutacez. 
A dwarf, bushy, evergreen shrub, with pink flowers in July. — Bossie‘a 
cordifolia; Leguminose. A dwarf, bushy, evergreen shrub, with yellow 
flowers in June. 


Geraniicee. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. &c. In Numbers. 3s. each. 


Nos. XCIII. and XCIV. for September and October, contain 
569 to 576.— Pelargonium Burnettidnum, Richidnum, Rollisoni, Knipee, 
Laconia, eriosépalon (erion, wool, sepal, leaves of the calyx), and Nairnz. 


The British Flower-Garden. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. &c. In 8vo Numbers, . 
Monthly. 3s. each. : 


No. LV. for September, contains 

217 to 220. — Hypecoum (Hypecheo, to resound ; rattling of the seeds in 
the pods) procambens; Papaveracez. A very pretty annual of the easiest 
culture. — Aquilégia alpina; Ranunculaceze Helleborée. Arareand mag- 
nificent-flowered plant, which ought to be in every collection. “It has 
generally been lost by being confined in pots; it prefers a rich loamy soil, 
and the seeds should be sown as soon as ripened; the plants will then 
become strong before winter, and will bloom the followimg summer.”— 
O’rchis coridphora. A free-growing species, from Switzerland, with singu- 
lar flowers, which possess a disagreeable scent. —Collinsia vérna; Scro- 
phularineze. A beautiful annual plant from the borders of Lake Erie, of the 
easiest culture. 


Catalogue of Botanical Works. ‘199 


No. LVI. for October, contains 
221 to 224, — Phl6x canadénsis. — Herbértia pulchélla; Jridte. A 
beautiful bulb from the Bay of Maldonado, by Mr. J. Anderson, the col- 
lector of Mr. J. B. Mackay, F.L.S. H.S. ef the Clapton nursery.— Viola 
pubéscens. From Montreal, by Robert Barclay, Esq. F.L.S. H.S., of Bury 
Hill, near Dorking. — Phlox odorata. Pink flowers, and very handsome. 


Cistinée By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. In svo, every alternate Month. 3s. 


No. XIV. for September, contains 

55 to 56.— Helianthemum croceum, Saffron-flowered Sun-Rose. Very 
showy, half hardy, and of the easiest culture. — Cistus salvifolius. Shrubby, 
white flowers, hardy, and of the easiest culture. — Helianthemum roseum, 
Rose-flowered Sun-Rose. Decumbent, very showy, and of the easiest cul- 
ture.—Helianthemum canum, Hoary Sun-Rose. A pretty, little, trailing,~ 
suffruticose plant, with yellow flowers. Quite hardy, and easily propagated 
by cuttings or seeds. 
The Botanic Garden. By B. Maund. In small 4to. Large, 1s. 6d. ; small, 1s. 


Nos. XXXIII. and XXXIV. for September and October, contain 
Rhéxia virginica, Campanula carpatica, Pulmonaria paniculata, Draba 
hirta, Pulmonaria virginica, Lythrum (/ythron, clotted blood ; flowers) vir- 
gitum, Xeranthemum (veros, dry, anthemon, a flower) lucidum, Cérnus 
canadénsis. 


The Florist’'s Guide and Cultwator’s Directory; &c. By Robert Sweet, 
F.L.S. &c. In Monthly Numbers. 3s. coloured; 2s. plain. 


No. IIT. for September, contains 
9 to 12.— Cartwright’s Rainbow Carnation, Stretch’s Alexander Auricula, 
Strong’s High Admiral, and Princess Alexandrina Victoria Ranunculus. 


No. IV. for October, contains 
15 to 16.— Cheese’s Miss Cheese Pink, Hufton’s Duchess of Newcastle 
Carnation, Page’s Champion Auricula, and Goldham’s Harl of Liverpool 
Tulip. 


Medical Botany, §e. By John Stevenson, M.D., and James Morss 
Churchill, Hsq., Surgeon. In Monthly Numbers. 3s. éd. 


No. IX. for September, contains 

33 to 56.—Gratiola (dimin. of gratia, grace (of God); in allusion 
to its salutary qualities) officinalis, Officinal or common Hedge Hyssop. 
A purgative which, given in over-doses, produces violent and continued 
vomiting. “ Dr. Kostrzweki of Warsaw has offered some remarkable 
instances of its powerful influence in soothing and suspending irritation ; 
and asserts that three maniacs, in the hospital at Vienna, were recovered 
by its use; that the most confirmed cases of lues venerea were completely 
cured by it ; and that it usually acted by increasing the urinary, cutaneous, 
and salivary excretions. Dr. Perkins of Coventry states that it forms the 
basis of the Eau Medicinale, and that the recipe was given him by the 
Count Leimingen, who paid 500 ducats for it. This nobleman was a person 
of extensive reading, and a munificent patron of the arts, and had been in 
early life a martyr to the gout; an exemption from which, for several years, 
he attributed to the use of this medicine.” 

Momordica Elaterium; Cucurbitacez. A hardy annual, on waste grounds 
in the South of Europe. A few acres are raised annually at Mitcham in 
Surrey, and some other places, for the sake of the well-known elaterium 
(drastic purgative) of the shops. Dr. Clutterbuck instituted a series of 
experiments on this plant, from which it appears that “ the most active 
principle belonging to it is neither lodged-in the roots, leaves, flowers, 

Oo 4 


200 ae Catalogue of Works 


flowers, nor stalks, in any considerable quantity ; nor is it to be found in 
the body of the fruit itself, or in the seeds contained within it. It was only 
in the juice around the seeds, therefore, that it could be looked for; and 
here it will be found.” 

G@nanthe (Oine, the vine, anthos, a flower; blossoms with the vine) 
crocata (containing a yellow juice). (Gard. Mag., vol.i. p. 454. fig. 95.) 
One of the most active cf our poisonous vegetables, ‘* Mr. Erhert, a 
botanical artist, asserted that, while drawing the plant, the smell from it ren- 
dered him so giddy, that he was several times obliged to quit the room, and 
walk in the air to recover himself; but that, having opened the door and 
windows of the room, the free air enabled him to finish his work.” The 
roots have a sweetish flavour, and may be mistaken, by those who know 
nothing of plants, for those of wild celery, or of the wild carrot or parsnep ; 
many instances are quoted of death by their use. “ Hight young lads, 
going a fishing to a brook near Clonmel, in Ireland, meeting with a parcel 
of hemlock dropwort, and mistaking their roots for those of water 
parsnep, ate a quantity of them. About four or five hours after, going 
home, the eldest, who was almost of man’s stature, without the least pre- 
vious disorder, on a sudden fell down backwards, and lay sprawling on the 
ground, His countenance soon turned very ghastly, and he foamed at the 
mouth, Soon after, four more were seized in the same manner ; and they 
all died before morning.” 

Géum urbanum. A native perennial, with roots of an austere taste, and 
fragrant odour. It is sometimes used in Germany as a substitute for Peru- 
vian bark, but very seldom in this country in any way. 


_No. X. for October, contains © 

57 to 40. — Nicotiana (Jean Nicot, ambassador to Francis I]. in Portu- 
gal) tabdeum (the name of the tube through which the smoke is exhaled in 
St. Domingo). — A’nthemis ndbilis, Noble or common Chamomile (chamai, 
on the ground, melon, an apple; smelling like apples). A tonic and sto- 
machic. — Morus nigra, Common Black Mulberry Tree. [ruit used in 
gargles. — Lavandula spica, Spike Lavender. The spirit “ forms a useful 
cordial for the nervous of the fair sex.” 


Barton, John, Esq., of Stoughton in Sussex: Author of “ Observations on 
the Condition of the Labouring Classes of Society.” and of “ An Inquiry 
into the Causes of the Progressive Depreciation of Agricultural Labour :” 
A Lecture on the Geography of Plants. London. 12mo, 4 folio maps, 
pp: 95. 7s. 


The study of the geography of plants is of so recent a date, that for the 
progress made in it we are chiefly indebted to living botanists, and espe- 
cially to the Baron Humboldt, and our distinguished countryman Mr. Brown. 
Decandolle, Wahlenberg, Von Buch, and Winch of Newcastle have also 
laboured in this department. From their works, and those of some other 
naturalists, Mr Barton collected together the leading facts which he lately 
delivered in a lecture before the Mechanics’ Institution at Chichester, and 
has now published and illustrated by maps. To render it more generally 
interesting, Mr. Barton has, for the most part, directed his attention to the 
geography, or range of growth, of “ those plants whose names, or the names 
of some of their productions, are likely to be known to every one; either 
the plants themselves being cultivated in our fields or gardens, or their pro- 
ductions employed by the apothecary, the dyer, or the cabinet-maker,’”’ 

When we consider that in none of our popular introductions to botany, 
with the exception of the translations of Willdenow and Decandolle, is the 
subject of the geography of plants so much as noticed, and that none of 
these introductions or translations contain even so much information on 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 201 


the subject; as we have compressed in our chapter on Vegetable Geography, 
in the Encyclopedia of Gardening (§ 908.), some idea may be formed of the 
service which Mr. Barton has rendered to the British naturalist. His little 
book may be considered an essential appendage to every introduction to 
botany that has hitherto appeared ; and, as the subject of the geography 
and history of plants is far more interesting than the technical details of 
systematic botany, we think there are few, even general readers, that will 
not be gratified by its perusal. Not more than 1,400 plants were known 
to the Greeks and Romans ; at present 35,000 species are known to be na- 
tives of Britain, and more than 50,000 have been described, exclusive of 
cryptogamous plants, Of this vast number only a few of the very lowest 
orders, as mosses, are universally distributed. ‘The cause of the limitation 
of plants to certain latitudes, is doubtless to be found in certain peculiari- 
ties of their internal structure; but with these we are but very little ac- 
quainted. Each of the great divisions of the earth has also given birth 
to aset of plants distinct from those of other places; but the cause of this 
limitation may be traced to the geographical boundaries of these divisions. 
Plants originally belonging to one part of the world, when removed to 
another enjoying a similar climate, prosper as well as in their native coun- 
try. . These three facts form the foundation of ail our knowledge of the 
geography of plants. It would occupy too much room, and in some 
measure be a repetition of the chapter on the subject in our Encyclopedia, 
if we were to abridge Mr. Barton’s pages; the naturalist and general reader 
will have recourse to the work itself, and such gardeners as have not our 
Encyclopedia may purchase it, or borrow it from their employers. We shall 
finish our remarks with the beautiful conclusion of the author : — 

“ Here I terminate my sketch of botanical geography. If the question 
be now asked, ‘ Whether any useful result is likely to follow from such a 
pursuit 2?’ I must acknowledge that if the word useful is employed in its 
vulgar acceptation, as referring to the supply of our physical wants, I can- 
not tell, — never having made the inquiry. But if the term «tility is in- 
tended to comprise those higher advantages which are connected with the 
moral and intellectual influence of the employment itself, its tendency to 
elevate, refine, and humanise the character —to exercise, without harass- 
ing the faculties —to divert the attention from mercenary and sensual ob- 
jects to purer and nobler contemplations — to bring the mind within the 
precincts of the temple, where it may readily, and often, and without 
violence, be called into the sanctuary: —if by this standard the value of 
our pursuits is to be measured, there are few of them, perhaps, that deserve 
to occupy a higher place than the study of nature.” 

The maps are of Kurope, Asia, Africa, and America, on which the names 
-of plants are substituted for the names of places. A good exercise for 
children in the country would be to copy off the names of the plants be- 
side the places on maps on a large scale, or on a blank globe; or miniatures 
of the plants might be painted on their geographical. situations im either’ 
case. 


Menteath, Robert, Designer and Valuator of Woods and Plantations, Author 
of “ The Forester’s Guide and Profitable Planter: ”’ Miscellaneous 
Reports on Woods and Plantations, showing a Method to plant, rear, 
and recover all Woods, Plantations, and Timber Trees, on every Soil 
and Situation in Britain and Ireland. Edinburgh. svo, pp. 155, 2 pls. 
7s. 6d. 


Mr. Menteath has had much employment and experience relating to the 
subject on which he writes. His statements go far to prove that there is 
no portion or description of our wastes, but might be made highly produc- 
tive and valuable, both in a private and public point of view. 


202 %s Catalogue of Works 


So well convinced is he of this fact (appealing to what has already been 
done as proof ), that he sees in it not only a sufficient field for the employ- 
ment of our redundant population, but immense advantages which would 
accrue to the landholder, and ultimately to the state. 

He last year addressed a letter to Mr. Peel on the subject, and therein 
states that one hundred acres, enclosed and planted as he would direct, at 
the expense of 4,200/. during twenty years, will, at the end of that term, 
yield a clear profit of 6,500/. ‘That one acre of well planted and protected 
woodland will, after the first ten years, pay an annual rent of from 6/. to 
10/.; and, if home-grown bark could be supplied instead of that which is 
imported, would save to the nation 400,000/. per annum. 

His ideas on the propriety and practicability of covering the extensive 
wastes of Scotland and Ireland with wood are rational, and, in the present 
state of the country, highly interesting. He adduces certain parts of the 
woodlands of Earl Roden, in Ireland, which have not been planted more than 
sixty years, as at this moment being worth, if felled, 3,000/. per annum! and 
gives some equally encouraging instances of what has been done in Scotland. 
Of his plan, as a rational object, it has been said, that “it is not because it 
would set a-working thousands or tens of thousands of our idle population, 
that we would have our waste lands planted, but simply because the real 
value of the work would more than pay the cost of it, and would thus 
enable us to give our labourers bread for their mouths, as well as occupation 
for their hands.” 

Mr. Menteath appears to be a man of considerable originality and vigour 
of mind in his department, and quite aw fait at the practical part of forest 
management. — J. MM. Chelsea. 


Withers, William, Junior, Esq., of Holt, Norfolk, Author of “ A Memoir 
on planting and rearing Forest Trees”? (Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 75.): A 
Profit and Loss View of planting One Acre of Land, on the System re- 
commended by Mr. Withers, and on that generally adopted by Scotch 
Planters. London. One page, in the tabular form, 1 ft. 21n. by 1 ft. 6 in. 
1s. 


The original expenditure, on Mr. Withers’s system, is 28/. 15s., and the 
clear profit, at the end of sixty-four years, 1,505/. 9s. 8d.; on the Scotch 
system, 17/. 10s., and the loss, at the end of sixty-four years, after deducting 
the value of the trees, 272/. 10s. 5d. We entirely agree in the conclusion 
of Mr. Withers, “ that, though a difference of opinion may exist as to the 
profit to be actually realised, enough is shown to prove that a liberal 
expenditure in planting and subsequent management, with compound in- 
terest thereon, will be amply repaid by the increased growth of the trees 
thereby occasioned.” 


FRANCE. 


Annales de la Société d’? Horticulture de Paris, et Journal Spécial de ? Etat et 
des Progres du Jardinage. tom. 1. 1re livraison, pour Septembre, 1826. 
Paris. 8vo, pp. 80. Price, in Paris, for twelve numbers, or one year, 15 fr. 
Gratis to members of the Society. 


In an advertisement on the cover, it is stated that these Annals will be 
composed of twelve monthly numbers, of from two to four sheets each, 
per annum, with lithographic plates, occasionally coloured. 

A prospectus, serving as an introduction, points out the necessity and 
advantages of a Horticultural Society to France, the advantages that will 
result from public exhibitions of gardening productions, and from the esta- 
blishment of a garden, and the publication of the Society’s Annals or T'rrans- 
actions. Yn order to be admitted a member of the Society, it is necessary 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 203 


to be presented or recommended by one of the existing members. The 
price of the subscription is 30 fr. per annum. 

A table of the members enumerates the Vicomte Héricort de Thury, as 
president ; Comte de Lasteyrie and the Baron de Silvestre, as _vice-presi- 
dents; Le Chevalier Soulange-Bodin, as general secretary; Baron de 
Mortemart-Boisse and M. Dupont, as ordinary secretaries; M. Huzard fils, 
as treasurer; a general committee ; a committee of nurseries and fruit tree 
culture ; a committee of culinary vegetables ; a committee of economical 
and medicinal plants ; a committee of ornamental plants, hardy and tender ; 
a committee of landscape-gardening; a committee of directors of the 
intended garden; and acommittee of editors for the Annals. These com- 
mittees consist of ten members each, including. the president and general 
secretary. The list of the members composing the foundation, or com- 
mencement, of this Society amounts to three hundred and thirty, among 
whom we observe the names of two or more (?) Englishmen; viz. Messrs. 
George and William Rollison of Fooling-Surrey (Tooting, Surrey), Sir 
Losh (?), and Dr. Spencer Smith of Caen. As may be expected, the members 
are chiefly amateurs, but they include also many of the respectable com- 
mercial cultivators. 

A discourse, pronounced at the installation of the members by the pre- 
sident, (where and when is not mentioned,) takes a cursory glance at the 
history of gardening from the earliest ages to the establishment of the gar- 
dens of Fromont and of M. Boursault, on which gardens very long notes 
are given. A notice of the duties of the different committees concludes 
this first number. 

As these Annals promise to embrace the subject of gardening in its fullest 
extent, and also to give “ un bulletin bibliographique d’analyses et d’an- 
nonces,” we hope succeeding numbers will enable us to lay before our 
readers every thing worth knowing in Britain, with respect to, the state of 
horticulture, and the progress of cultivation in France. 


Soulange-Bodin, M. le Chevalier, Pres. Lin. Soc. Paris, F.M.H.S. &c. &c.: 
Quelques idées sur la régénération des Foréts. Discours lu a la Séance 
de la 'éte Champeétre du 26 Mai, 1827, célébrée dans le Bois de Belle- 
vue pres de Meudon. Paris. Pamph. pp. 10. 


The ideas are, to introduce numerous trees of North America along 
with the native trees; and, in other cases, to renew decaying forests by 
planting American trees or others not previously grown there, on the prin- 
ciple of the succession, or what is called rotation, of crops in agriculture, 
and which, it is ascertained, actually takes place in nature. In Aubrey’s 
Surrey it is recorded that at Wooton, Mr. Evelyn’s, a wood of beeches 
sprung up after a wood of oaks had been cut down; and several very 
remarkable instances are given in Dr. Dwight’s Travels in New England. 


Meérault, A. J.: L’Art du Jardinier, &c. Paris. 12mo, pp. 409. 
4 fr. 50 cents. 


This work forms part of the Bibliotheque Industrielle, but it is said in the 
Bulletin des Sciences Agricoles, that “ \’auteur n’a pas consulté les Trans- 
actions de la Société Horticulturale, les Mémoires de celle de Berlin, et les 
nombreux ouvrages sur Phorticulture publiés en Allemagne, en Angleterre, 
et ailleurs.” ~ 


GERMANY. 


Reichenbach, D. L., Professor at Dresden : Taschenbuch fiir Gartenfreunde, 
&c. Pocketbook for gardening Amateurs. Leipsic. svo. 2 dols. 


About two thousand garden plants, useful and ornamental, arranged 
according to the Linnean system, are described, and their culture detailed. 


hae 


204 ~ Catalogue of Works ' 


Hartwig, Garden Inspector of the Botanic Garden of Carlsruhe ; Hortus 
Carlsruhanus, oder Verzeichniss sammtlicher Gewachse, &c. Hortus 
Carlsruanus, or Catalogue of the Plants cultivated in the Grand-ducal 
Botanic Garden of Carlsruhe ; with a short History of the Botanic and 
Pleasure Gardens there, from 13550 to 1825, and the Ground Plan, Ele- 
vations, and Sections of the Hot-houses. Carlsruhe. syvo, 1 fol. plate. 


The palace and gardens of Carlsruhe are among the noblest in Germany : 
a general idea of them, accompanied by a plan, has been given in the Encyc. 
of Gard. (§ 7514.), and we shall here abridge Mr. Inspector Hartwig’s 
short history, and inspect his catalogue and plans. 

The princes of Baden have taken an interest in natural history from the 
earliest times; and, from a conviction that all progress in the improvement 
of the soil is founded in a knowledge of nature, they laid out botanic and 
pleasure gardens, in which experiments might be conducted, interesting 
at once to the forester, the rural economist, and the man of science. The 
date of the first garden formed by this family cannot be found out; the 
earliest records commence with 1520, when the Margrave Ernest built 
a castle and laid out a garden at Sultzburg. His successor, the Margrave 
Charles II., built and laid out Carlsburgh Dourlach in 1565; and, from 1595 to 
1622, this garden was greatly increased and improved by the Margrave George 
Frederick, whose physician, the celebrated Gasper Bauhin of Basil, often 
visited and greatly admired the garden. The Margrave Frederick VI. also 
added to the garden of Dourlach, which Jerome Bauhin eulogised, asappears 
by the Krauterbuch of Tabernemontanus of 1664, dedicated to this prince. 

In 1689, the town of Dourlach, with many other towns and villages, was 
burned to the ground by the French; but, notwithstanding this, the Margrave 
Frederick Magnus rebuilt it and renewed the garden. A red and white spruce 
fir, an avenue of chestnuts, and an ash tree, planted, it is supposed, when 
the garden was originally formed, in the sixteenth century, still remain, and 
are of a great size. The ash, which is 140 German feet high, and the trunk 
19 feet in circumference, displays a label of tinned iron, with an inscription 
signifying that in 1802 it had stood three centuries. ‘The avenue of horse- 
chestnuts is supposed to be the oldest either in Germany or France. Some 
of them exceed 120 Rhenish feet high, and 15 in circumference. Mr. 
Hartwig considers them larger than those of the Augarten at Vienna, 
which are said to be trees of the first generation, from the plants raised 
from the seeds brought by Clusius from the north of Asia to Constanti- 
nople in 1550, from thence to Vienna in 1588, to Paris in 1615, and to 
London in 1629. Since 1809 nothing has been done to the Dourlach garden. 

In 1715, the Margrave Charles William founded the palace and gardens of 
Carlsruhe ; the latter being laid out in the French style by Berceon, with 
parterres for flowers strewed with different coloured sands, broken glass, 
porcelain, shells, &c., and the main walks lined with hedges of box, yew, 
hornbeam, &c. In 1751, Professor Hebenstreit of Leipsic, and the Carlsruhe 
gardener, Thran, were sent to Africa for plants. ‘Thran returned success- 
ful in 1753, and soon afterwards the first Carlsruhe catalogue was printed. 
(Haller. Bib. Bot., tom. ii. p.266.) It contained about two thousand species, 
besides an immense collection of florist’s bulbs of the finest varieties. From 
both about two hundred drawings were made by Trew, and described by 
Ehret. In 1763, Dr. Koelreuter was appointed botanist to this garden, 
In 1787, Schweyckert, who had studied gardening in England, was made 
inspector, and through him the garden so increased, that, in 1795, the Hortus 
Carlsruhanus contained five hundred species. In 1796, the French invaded 
this part of Germany, and caused the neglect of the garden; and, in 1806, 
when Mr. Garden Inspector Schweyckert died, the number of species had 
declined to three hundred, chiefly ligneous plants and annuals. Mr. Hartwig, 
the present inspector, was then appointed to the situation, and began by intro- 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 205 


ducing from Paris a great many New Holland plants, then rare in Germany. 
The: number of hot-houses was imcreased, and the hardy plants better 
arranged in the Linnean manner, In 1811, Gmelin published Hort. Magni 
Ducis Badensis et Carlsruhanus,&c. which contained upwards of six thousand 
species. In this year the archduke died, and Agave lurida, which had flowered 
for the first time in Europe on his assuming the government sixty-five years 
before, again flowered. Various alterations were made, hot-houses built, 
an additional supply of water obtained, and fountains added ; and, in 1823 
and 1824, a great many urns and statues. 

The garden is described with reference to the large sheet map of it which 
is prefixed to the catalogue. The hot-houses are 
mostly on the old Dutch plan, with steep glass 
fronts and bonnet, roofs. (fig. 57.) The largest 
resemble our old slated conservatories. (fig. 58.) 
The stoves are calculated to have the glass covered 
by shutters let down 
from the bonnet part of 
the front (jig. 57. a), 
during the cold nights, 
and on the approach of 
hail storms. ‘The bonnet roof is not only a great 
protection from the north, but powerfully reflects 
the sun’s rays down on the glass in winter and 
spring, when they strike it at nearly a right 
angle. 

Some remarks are given on the culture and propagation of the plants in 
this garden, but they contain nothing which the English reader will not 
find at greater length in Cushing’s Ewotic Gardener, which has been 
translated into the German language; in Sweet’s excellent work, The 
Botanical Cultivator, and in our Encyclopedias of Gardening, and of 
Plants. Considerable importance is very properly attached to the use of 
soft or rain water, the placing of plants im circumstances as near as possible to 
their native habitations in point of shade or moisture, and sheltering them 
from the east wind. Besides peat soil for Hricas and other plants, which the 
Germans call “ hair-rooted,” a great deal of use is made of rotten wood, or 
wood earth collected in baskets in the forests. American plants thrive 
better in this soil mixed with common garden earth, than in peat alone. 
Rhododéndron, Azalea, Kalmia, &c., make shoots three feet long in a season. 
Judicious directions are given for watering in gardens with the syringe or 
engine, and keeping a moist atmosphere during the warm season. ‘To de- 
stroy the worms, a composition of soap, sulphur, and bruised fungi of any 
sort, mixed, boiled, and allowed to stand till they ferment and smell power- 
fully, is recommended as a specific. 

From a meteorological table, and some remarks on the geographical 
situation and weather of Carlsruhe, it appears to be one of the most favour- 
able places in Germany for the culture of plants. Though two degrees 
farther north, and twice as high as London is above the sea, the average 
temperature of the year is about the same; but the average summer tem- 
perature is two degrees higher, and winter temperature two. degrees lower. 
The greatest cold of the winter of 1822-3 was four degrees more than in 
London, The prevailing wind is from the west. In the course of twenty 
years, only one hail storm has occurred, which broke about forty panes of 
the hot-bed frames. The earliest season, from 1806 to 1824 inclusive, was 
1822, in which year the first spring flowers were in bloom on the sth of 
February, apricots on the 25th of February, trees green on the 24th of 
April, ripe cherries in the market on the sth of May, corn ripe on the 20th 
of June, and grapes on the 30th. 


206 ~ Works on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 


The catalogue is arranged alphabetically; the scientific names and 
synonyms, with their authorities, are given; the German name, habit, and 
habitation in the garden. Of Acacia there are 59; of A’cer, 26; Achillea, 
58; Acénitum, 29; Ai’sculus, 9; A’Inus, 7; A’loe, 85; Aspidium, 25; A’ster, 
76; Bétula, 15; Cactus, 61; Campanula, 42; Centadria, 59; Conval- 
laria, 10; Erica, 92; Euphorbia, 69; Ficus, 50; Fraxinus, 23; Gentidna, 
12; Hieracium, 56; Jbéris, 11; lex, 13; ris, 58 ;Lonicéra, 21; Malva, 
27; Melaletica, 26; and of Mesembryanthemum, 155 species. For the 
collection of succulents, which is extensive, due acknowledgments are 
made to the Prince Salm-Dyck, an enthusiastic cultivator of this tribe. Of 
MM. cerifera (fig. 59.), which our cor- 
respondent, Dr. Hamilton, proposes to 
cultivate (Gard. Mag., vol.i. p. 403.), 
Mr. Hartwig has in some years collect- 
ed five pounds of berries, of which he 
has made four large candles. Passiflora, 
35; Pelargonium, 155; Phlox, 20; 
Pinus, 23; Pépulus, 14; Potentilla, 28 ; 
Protea, 24; Prunus, 51; Quércus, 45; 
Résa sp. and var. 106; Salix,45; Sal- 
via, 55; Saxifraga, 52; Scabidsa, 56; 
Siléne, 56 ; Stapelza, 50; Veronica, 48 ; 
Vibarnum, 22; Viola, 26; Zizyphus, 5. 
The total number of species and varie- 
ties is above six thousand. Among 
these are a few species not yet intro- : ‘ 
duced into Britain, and others considered rare here, which, as we are inform- 
ed by Mr. Rausch, Jun., of the Imperial Gardens of Laxembourg, near 
Vienna, have been there many years. Among the latter may be mentioned 
Wistéria Consequana, which covers a house, and has a stem as thick as a 
man’s thigh. 

On the whole, we are glad of an opportunity of noticing this catalogue, 
because it will show to the lovers of gardening in this country how much 
the art is held in estimation in Germany ; and we hope this and other in- 
formation will induce some of the London nurserymen to establish tra- 
vellers in that country, which we are sure would answer. With a view to 
this, we would recommend all young men, intended as nurserymen, to pay 
some attention to the Dutch and German languages, as well as to the 
French. A few common phrases, the numerals, and about one hundred 
technical terms, would be enough to begin with. Any lad, capable of learn- 
ing to bud or graft, might acquire them in twenty-four hours, and he would 
find them of immense use, not only in the event of going abroad, but for 
the purpose of transacting business with the foreign gardeners who visit 
England. ; 


Anon.: System der Garten-Nelke, &c. A System of Arrangement for Car- 
nations on the general Principle of Weismantel’s Carnation System, &c., 
comprising a Guide to the Culture of these and other Florist’s Flowers. 
Berlin. 8vo, 1 coloured Plate. In London of Treuttel and Co. for 
3s. 6d. 

This is a curious book, and we hope some florist of leisure will try what 
he can make of it. Carnations and picotees are arranged in classes, orders, 
and sorts, and a coloured petal given, exemplifying each sort, to the number 
of twenty-two. We are not inclined to set much value on the nicety of 
this arrangement, because we cannot conceive it to be at all permanent. 


PART III. 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. 1. Foreign Notices. 


FRANCE. 


A HORTICULTURAL SocreTY has been established at Paris on a plan of 
organisation similar to that of London. We refer to our review of the 
first number of thei Transactions for details. (p. 202.) We are most happy 
to hear of it, and our correspondent, the Chevalier Soulange-Bodin, writes 
us of the 18th of September, that he was so much delighted that he gave 
an inauguration féte in his garden at Fromont, on the 30th of August last. 
An account of that féte, he states, will be found in the Moniteur, and in 
the second number of the Society’s Annals when published. Such as de- 
sire to become members of this Society, may address themselves to M. 
Cassin, their Agent, Rue Taranne, No. 12. 

Jardin de Fromont, June 15. 1827.— A visit was paid to this garden 
by the Royal and Central Agricultural Society of Paris. The proprietor is 
said to have received his learned guests “ avec les luxes confortable dun 
chateau des environs de Paris.” A relation is given of what they saw in 
the garden, in the Bulletin des Sciences Agricoles for July last, in the usual 
laudatory style of the notices of the Fromont garden. We should like to 
see a better taste on the part of the writer of these notices ; in England, at 
least, the reputation of the garden is more injured than benefited by them. 

The Sophora japonica, Hoai-hoa, Chin., Legumindse, has been cul- 
tivated in France since 1717, and flowered for the first time in the 
garden of the Maréchal de Noailles, at St. Germain, ‘in 1779, under the 
name of Robinia sinénsis. It was afterwards published by Bernard de 
Jussieu under the name of Sophora sinica, and also by Linnzeus as Sophora 
japonica. It is stated in the Hortus Kewensis to have been introduced to 
England by Gordon, in 1753; but I took the first plants to England along 
with Aidnthus glandulosus, and gave them to Sir Joseph Banks, in 1780. 
Neither of these trees were then known in England. See the Jour. de 
Paris, Oct. 14th, 1779. — Thomas Blaikie. Paris, Rue des Vignes, No. 5. 
August 18. 1827. 

The Duchesse d’ Angouléme Pear is so named because it was found in. 
July, 1815, when the reigning family of France returned for the second time 
to the head of the government. It was discovered by chance in the 
hedges of a forest of Armaillé, near Angers, in the department of Maine 
and Loire. The proprietor of that forest, struck with the size of the fruit 
and its excellent qualities, removed to his garden all the plants of that 
variety which his woods contained, and, at the end of five years, this pear 
was common in his neighbourhood. (Bul. Agr., Juil. 1827, p. 115.) —If 
“all the plants” which he found with this excellent fruit were seedlings, 
no two of them would be exactly alike in quality, and of course there 
must be several varieties of this pear in cultivation. 


208 Foreign Notices. — Germany. 


Rhododéndron ponticum is found to contain some grains of common 
sugar, of a pure and white colour, on the inner surface of the upper division 
of the corolla. (Bul. Un.) 

The Roots of a Black Mulberry Tree, which had lain dormant in the 
ground for twenty-four years, are said at the end of that period to have 
sent up shoots. (Ann. des Scienc. Nat., tom. ix. p.558., as in Brande’s Jour., 
Oct. 1827.) 

The Alternation or Succession of Crops, found to be of so much importance 
both in gardening and agriculture, has been proved to be a general law of 
nature, by M. Dureau de la Malle, in the Ann. des Scienc. Nat., tom. v. 
p. 553., Aout, 1825. The facts which he brings forward are perfectly con- 
sistent with the experience and observation of various naturalists and cul- 
tivators. The botanist Ray observed, after the great fire of London in 
1666, that Sisymbrium Jrio sprung up among the ruins, where it had 
never been seen before; and Professor Pallas, in the end of last century, 
observed in Russia that, when pine forests were destroyed by fire, they 
were not succeeded by the pine or fir tribe, but by wild service, birch, 
lime, poplar, and analogous trees; Dr. Dwight also, in the beginning 
of the present century, found that his grandfather’s field near North- 
ampton in Pennsylvania, which a century before was covered with oaks and 
chestnuts, after being under the plough for two generations, and then left 
to itself, brought forth a thick grove of white pines, without a single oak 
or chestnut tree. From the various instances, both of herbaceous and 
ligneous vegetables, adduced by M. Dureau, he concludes that the succession 
of plants is a fundamental law of vegetation in a state of nature, and that its 
imitation by art, in our fields, gardens, and woods, is of the first importance. 

Spilanthes olerdaceus, Corymbiferze, the Cress of Para in India, and a stove 
biennial in this country, is found to be perfectly hardy in the Jardin des 
Plantes, and to ripen its seeds in the open air. (MM. E. Rousseau in Nouv. 
Bull. des Soc. Philomat., Oct. 1826, p. 156.) 

Flavouring Wines. — Among the roots used by the ancients for this pur- 
pose were the following, which, it is said, are still employed in the same way: 
Andropogon Scheenanthus and Nardus, A’corus Calamus, and Iris floren- 
tina. The root of the latter has the odour of the violet. The root of Cy- 
pérus léngus is also very odoriferous. (Olivier de Serres.) 


GERMANY. 


Ripe Grapes of the black kind were gathered in a vineyard near Wir- 
temburg, on the Lower Rhine, on the 50th of July. The fact was con- 
sidered so extraordinary that it was formally attested by the mayor of the 
district. (Times, August 28.) 

An Onion planted by the side of a Rose, so as to touch its roots, is said to 
render the odour of the latter more intense. (C¥con. Neuigh. und Verhandl., 
1827, No. 12.)— We do not think it likely, but it may be worth a trial. 

Preservation of Grain. —In the citadel of Mayence, a great quantity of 
corn was discovered in a vault, where it had remained since 1528. It was 
in such excellent preservation that bread made from it was found to be 
very good, though the corn had been kept nearly two centuries. In the 
department of the Pas de Calais, at Andres, may still be seen one of these 
vaults, made by the Romans, and used as granaries. (Olivier de Serres.) 

The Seeds of Dodder, Cuéscuta europee*a, a parasitic annual of the Convol- 
vuliceze, Pentan. Monoc. L., are not unfrequent among Dutch clover 
seed, the plant being a great nuisance to the farmers in that country and 
Flanders; but the seeds of Cuscuta, not being above a sixth part of the size 
of those of clover, are easily separated from them by sifting. (@conom. 
Neuigk., 1827, No. 12.) 


Foreign Notices. — Italy, Spain, North America. 209 


ITALY. 


Phérmium bulbiferum, the Lachenalia péndula of Hort. Kew., nat. ord. 
Asphodeléz, is cultivated in Sicily as the common hyacinth is in this coun- 
try. It is planted in November, and the flowers, which are of a fine coral 
red, appear in the middle of December, and last till the end of January. 
(Bul. Agr., Juil. p. 119.) 


SPAIN. 


Amalia aérisincola (aér, air, incola, an inhabitant) has hung out of the win- 
dow of a house in the botanic garden at Barcelona, for fifteen or twenty 
years ; and, when seen by G. A. W. Arnott, Esq., in 1825, still bore its blue 
flowers every summer. Mr. Arnott thinks the plant a Tillandsia from 
South America, and probably a described species.. He advised the director, 
Dr. Baki, to put it in earth for a season, as by that means it would become 
much stronger, and suffer dividing at the root; but the Doctor was deter- 
mined it should support the specific name he had conferred on it. (Arnoté 
in Jam. Jour., September, 1827.) 

The Agave americana, which is planted in Catalonia along the road-sides 
as hedges, flowers at the ninth or tenth year, whereas, at Perpignan, in 
France, it flowers very seldom. When the scapes are young, or about 
twelve or fifteen feet high, and the pedicles not yet developed, they present 
the appearance of gigantic shoots of asparagus. When full grown, they 
attain the height of twenty-five or thirty feet, and all this in the course of 
eight or ten days. (Arnott in Jam. Jour., September, 1827.) 


NORTH AMERICA. 


New York Horticultural Society, February 8.— The Inspecting Com- 
mittee have printed their report (8 pages 8vo) for the by-past year. They 
state that “ they have met weekly during the year, to receive and examine 
all such productions as were presented for examination ;” and they give a 
list of the persons to whom, and the articles for which, premiums were 
awarded. Among the latter we observe early Lima beans, which we be- 
lieve may now be purchased in the London seed-shops. Mr. William Fair- 
bairn, gardener to Joseph Foulke, Esq., presented a large club calabash 
(figured Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 95.), “ said to be very fine for the table or for 
preserves.” 

“ Some potatoes were presented to the Society by Commodore Chaun- 
cey, found in a native state, on the Island of St. Lorenzo, Bay of Callao, in 
the Pacific Ocean, by Commodore Hull. They were distributed to the prac- 
tical gardeners, and have blossomed, but have not yet increased. ‘They 
prove, however, to be a new species, and seem to possess the valuable pro- 
perty of keeping good a long time, perhaps for two years ; and, as Commo- 
dore Hull, in his letter to the Society, says they are very fine eating, may 
perhaps, at a future period, turn out to be a valuable acquisition to our tables, 
and reflect great honour upon the worthy Commodore for his attention. 
A basket of Malabar spinach, Basélla alba was presented by A. Parmentier, 
of Long Island; it was served up at the anniversary dinner, and proved 
excellent; and is a valuable vegetable, as it is fit for use when spinach cannot 
be obtained. 

“ The exhibitions of vegetables and fruit throughout the season were in 
general very fine. The Visiting Committee, with a view of enabling themselves 
to lay before the Society some account of the general state of our horticul- 
tural improvements, have inspected a considerable number of gardens in 
the vicinity, and they feel much pleasure in being enabled to state, that 
the progress of this delightful science is now extending in a very promising 


Vou. III. — No. 10. P 


210 Foreign Notices. — North America. 


degree. The Committee urge upon the members of the Society the great 
importance of using every possible means to increase and enrich the library 
of the institution, yet in its infancy, which is so important to the promotion 
of the objects of the Society. 

“« Upon a general review of the past season, the Committee congratulate 
the Society that a spirit of improvement, generally, has appeared in the 
exhibitions ; and the Society seems to be advancing harmoniously, to the 
benefit of the public in general, by a diffusion of horticultural knowledge, 
and the increasing of the comforts of civilised life. 

“ The Society offers premiums, for the year 1827, for all the essential 
articles of the flower and kitchen gardens, and discretionary premiums for 
all rare and superior fruit or vegetables, presented to them.” 

Linnean Botanie Garden near New York, July 15. 1827.—N. Carrington, 
Ksq., of St. Thomas’s parish, Island of Barbadoes, informs me that, by 
impregnating the blossom of a lime with the pollen of a lemon, he had 
lemons on his lime tree within a few inches of the limes. In my garden, 
the dwarf chestnut, or chinquapin, has been impregnated with the large 
French chestnut, and a tree produced which does not exceed twelve or 
fourteen feet in height, and begins to bear fruit when not above two or 
three feet high. It is twenty years since this variety of chestnut was origi- 
nated, and it has become very popular in this country. The Jaglans ciné- 
rea has been impregnated with the Jaglans régia, or common walnut, but 
the result has not been attended with any horticultural advantage. A fine 
new variety of Diospyros virginica has recently been presented to me by 
General Forman of Maryland, which is in fine eating before frost, and which 
he describes as being more like a rich preserve than any thing else. The 
common sort, you know, is very much likea sloe. General Forman is one 
of those venerable and highly cultivated military patriarchs, who are only 
to be found in this country; he is surrounded by every enjoyment which 
property can afford, and spends his time in cultivating his farm, and in 
reading and other intellectual amusements. I have solicited him to become 
a contributor to your Magazine. 

The cultivation of American forest trees seems now to occupy a good 
deal of attention in Kurope, and I will therefore next introduce some 
observations on that subject. ‘The yellow locust, Robinia pseudacicia, is 
the finest timber tree of the northern and middle states; it is to the north 
what the live oak, Quércus virens, is to the south, and what the teak is 
to India; but another timber tree seems to be less known to you, which, 
although its merits are of a different character, still is scarcely less impor- 
tant, I allude to the Magnolia acuminata. Who that has been familiar 
with the six diminutive species of Magnolia which have been brought from 
China, could imagine that one of its congeners towered among the mighty 
lords of the forests of the Alleghany ? Who that has viewed the pigmies 
of this genus, seldom large enough to form a walking-cane, but would dwell 
with amazement on the sight of this tree, forming a regular cone often to 
the height of a hundred feet, rising amid the wilds of nature, and clad in 
the greatest luxuriance of foliage and of flowers? The effect of this tree in 
woodland scenery, Iam convinced, has been overlooked in Europe; here it 
claims the lofty Tilia, the Liriodéndron, and the mightiest oaks as its com- 
peers. As timber it is applied to all the uses of the Liriodéndron and the 
Tilia, beg sawed into thin boards for all the lighter parts of cabinet-work : 
these boards are frequently two and a half feet in width. Another use is 
for the purpose of making wooden bowls, which are of all sizes, from a few 
inches to three feet in diameter. Its growth is very rapid, and it will even 
keep pace with the Zilia europea, or lime tree of Europe. I have often 
wondered that those persons who make use of the Chinese dwarf species of 
the Magnolia to decorate their gardens and lawns, should not use this species 


Foreign Notices. — North America. 211 


for stocks on which to graft those more diminutive kinds, instead of the 
practice generally pursued in Kurope, of putting them on one of their 
own dwarf class, the Magnolia purpurea. I have pursued the course I 
mention, and have found the growth comparatively as three to one, with 
the ultimate advantage of the one forming a splendid tree, while the other 
would only be a diminutive shrub. T shall now proceed to comment on 
various articles published in your Magazine. 

Mr. Drummond, the botanist, states (Vol. II. p. 228.) that the “ barrens 
around New York are covered with Pinus resinosa.” It is the Pinus rigida 
which covers the barrens in the vicinity of New York; not a single tree of 
Pinus resindsa is to be found here, except in botanic collections, that tree 
being peculiar toa much more northern climate, and found in plenty in the 
states of Maine. The vulgar name here for Pinus rigida is Pitch Pine, 
which must have misled Mr. Drummond; but, as this is three-leaved and 
the Pinus resinosa but two-leaved, a little examination would have solved 
all doubt. 

The American Scarlet Strawberry, you say (Vol. II. p.252.), is the latest 
of those deserving cultivation, with the exception of Alpines. This remark 
appears singular to me, for here the native Hragaria virginica is the earliest 
strawberry we have. How is this to be reconciled, except by the circum- 
stance that these titles do not refer to the same plant? [ notice also 
(Vol. II. p. 245.) that you call the celebrated Newtown Pippin “ Newton 
Pippin,” the former name only being correct, as it originated in the village 
of Newtown, distant but three miles from my residence. | I will, in a future 
letter, give you a complete history of this most estimable fruit, from its 
origin to the present time. 

In speaking of American grapes, (Catalogue of Horticultural Society, 
p- 215.) it is observed that “the reports which have been received of them 
are far from being favourable to their merits, either for the purposes of the 
table or of the press;” and as this assertion is very inaccurate, 1 cannot 
avoid replying to it. In this country we have scarcely a native grape that 
will not yield a pleasant palatable wine, and at least six varieties are found 
which afford excellent wine, and these varieties are now getting into exten- 
sive cultivation for that purpose. The Scuppernon is cultivated, in the state 
of North Carolina alone, to such an extent, that it is computed that a hun- 
dred hogsheads of wine are made from it annually. The Isabella yields a most 
excellent wine, of which you may rely on receiving a convincing specimen 
the ensuing autumn. The Catawba, Bland’s, Alexander’s, Orwigsburg, and 
Elsinburg are considered fine wine grapes; and vineyards, many acres in 
extent, are planted, and planting, with several of these kinds, in various sec- 
tions of the country. A number of other varieties are also cultivated for 
vineyards, but these I have stated are the most noted. It isa fact well 
known to connoisseurs, that many of the celebrated wines which are most 
consumed are the produce of grapes which have no claims to superiority 
over the native grapes of thiscountry ; and although we, who have scarcely 
doubled in the number of varieties that of original species, cannot yet com- 
pete with that nation which boasts of possessing 1500 varieties of a single 
species, in fruit calculated for the table, still we have several varieties which 
are much esteemed, even for that purpose. Upon this subject I should not 
have made any remarks, except to the Secretary himself, were it not that I 
felt unwilling that it should remain unexplained for a long period. 

What is the “ American Blight,” which infests apple trees so much in Eng- 
land? We have no disease here of that name, nor, in fact, have our apples 
any prevalent disease whatever. (See Gard. Mag., vol.i. p.388., and ii. 
p. 49.) 

Does your fruit pound contain twelve or sixteen ounces? [ Answer, Sixteen 
ounces, | 


Phe, 


212 Foreign Notices. — South America. 

Can you give an accurate description of the cherry called “ Four to the 
Pound, or Quatre dla Livre?” Are the statements we have seen of its 
great size, &c. merely imaginary ? [By antiphrasis.] 

Crinum longifolium, formerly Amaryllis longifolia is here perfectly hardy, 
and withstands our severe winters without protection. We set the bulbs 
about six inches below the surface of the earth, measuring from the upper 
end. This buib appears to be naturally an aquatic, and flourishes most 
when planted in a pond or reservoir. 

The Lairus Camphora, or Camphor tree, also withstood, in Georgia, the 
last severe winter, as I have been informed by Thomas Young, Esq., of that 
state, who mentions that he considers it “as hardy as the Latirus sdssa- 

fras.’ Mr. Young is a gentleman of most liberal and enlightened senti- 
ments, and amuses himself with naturalising in his splendid garden the 
rarest plants of warm climates. I am, dear Sir, yours, &c.— William Prince. 

Nutmeg Tree. (p. 67.) —In the plantations of this tree in Trinidad it is 
found that, when raised from seed, not more than one female tree is found 
among thirty or fifty. The practice is, therefore, to inarch females on the 
males, or to raise young female trees from layers. It is found that female 
trees sometimes produce male flowers; and a male tree, which produced 
only male flowers in 1824, in 1826 produced wholly female flawers. In 
1825, the first flowers that one of the female trees produced were all male. 
(Lockhart in Jameson’s Jour., Sept. 1827.) — We suspect it will be found 
that metamorphoses of this kind take place much more frequently than is 
generally imagined. Every gardener must have observed that young mul- 
berry trees from layers sometimes produce only male blossoms for the first 
few years; and we think we have observed the same thing in the holly, 
dogwood, and even the peach. 

Sugar. —I am convinced, says a writer in the American Mechanic’s Ma- 
gazine, that the time will come when sugar will be obtained from plants not 
at present cultivated for that purpose, and capable of being raised in places. 
where they cannot now be raised. I noticed swarms of flies on the Holcus 
Sorghum, that had been recently cut down; on twisting a handful of the 
culms, a table-spoonful of remarkably sweet juice was obtained. 

Coloured Cotton. — At the Annual Cattle Show of South Carolina, a 
letter was read from Mr. J. W. Watson, dated at Guayaquil, accompanying 
a quantity of cotton seed of a new kind, the production of Peru. The 
cotton is naturally of a light brown colour. The plant isa perennial, grows 
to the height of a peach tree, and is expected to thrive in the United 
States. This is probably the nankeen cotton of China. 


SOUTH AMERICA. 


Paio de Vaca, or Cow Tree of the Caraccas. (p. 98.) — A phial of the milk 
of this tree, together with a few leaves and a portion of the root, has been 
sent to A.B. Lambert, Esq. by Mr. David Lockhart, curator of the botanic 
garden in Trinidad. The milk is obtained by making a spiral incision into 
the bark of a tree which attains very large dimensions. The one from which 
Mr. Lockhart obtained the milk was one hundred feet from the root to the 
first branches, and stood about fifty miles east of La Guayra, in the Caraccas. 
Mr. Lockhart drank a pint of the milk, and found it taste like cream, with 
an.agreeable smell. He procured some young trees, and is now endeavour- 
ing to increase them in Trinidad. Mr. Don found the milk sent to 
Mr. Lambert to have the appearance of sour cream, and to be by no means 
disagreeable. ‘The tree he considers as evidently related either to /icus or 
Broésimum. 

The Pods of the Cesalpinia coridria, known by the common names of 
Dividivi, or Libidibi, are used by the inhabitants of Curacoa and Carthagena, 
and other places within the tropics, for tanning hides; and might be advan- 


2 


Foreign Notices. — Asia. 218 


tageously imported into this country, and afforded to the tanner upon even 
cheaper terms than the oak bark. 

The seed-pods of the Dividivi are pounded in a mortar, and then steeped 
in water in large vats: when the water is well impregnated, the hide is 
thrown into soak for four hours, then taken out to be rough-dressed, and 
replaced in the vat for another four hours; and this process is repeated till 
the hide is well tanned, which is here the operation of a couple of days. 

Such is the rude process adopted in South America, which, though de- 
fective in many particulars, is found to answer the purpose proposed. By 
grinding the pods of the Dividivi in the same manner as bark, and mace- 
rating them in warm water, by which the solution of the tanning principle 
contained in them would be rendered more complete and expeditious, an 
increased economy both of time and materials would be effected ; and the 
process might, by other improvements in the manipulation, which the expe- 
rience of the tanner cannot fail to suggest, be abridged still farther, and 
rendered more eftectual, so as to reduce the present high price of leather 
very considerably. (W.H. in Plym. Her., May 5.) 


ASIA. 


Dr. Wallich has been very successful in exploring the Botany of the Birman 
Empire. The number of species collected by him amounted, when the 
mission left him at Amherst, to about sixteen thousand, of which five hun- 
dred and upwards are new and undescribed. Among these last may be 
mentioned seven species of oak, two species of walnut, a rose, three willows, 
a raspberry, and a pear. Several plants discovered by him are so remark- 
able, as to constitute themselves new genera. Among the latter may be 
mentioned one which has been called Amhérstia, in compliment to, Lady, 
Amherst. This constitutes, probably, the most beautiful and noble plant of 
the Indian Flora. Two trees of it only are known to exist, and these are 
found in the gardens of a-monastery on the banks of the Salwen. The 
number of specimens brought to Calcutta amount to little less than eighteen 
thousand, among which are many beautiful live plants for the botanic garden, 
chiefly of the orchideous, scitamineous, and liliaceous families. The Hima- 
laya chain of mountains are from 5000 to 4000 feet high, and their Flora 
combines that of continental India and the Malayan countries. In econo- 
mical botany, the tree producing the celebrated varnish has been discovered 
and described ; the different mimosas producing catechu determined ; the 
fine durable timber of the Burmans, called Thingan, ascertained to be the 
Hopea odorata of Roxburgh, and the Soonsdree, another valuable timber, 
the Heritiéra robista. A forest of teak trees was found, many of the trees 
measuring from 18 ft. to 19 ft. in circumference. The botanical world 
await the result of Dr. Wallich’s mission with the greatest interest. (Hm- 
bassy to Ava in 1826-7.) 

_. The Bordssus flabelliférmis is of as much importance to the inhabitants 
of the north of Ceylon, as the Cocos nucifera is to-the iahabitants of the 
south of that island. The inhabitants of the north depend upon the 
produce of the Bordssus flabelliférmis, for a considerable portion of their 
food, and of the articles which they export; the inhabitants of the south 
depend as much for food, and for articles of export, upon the produce of 
the Cocos nucifera: and it is to be remarked that, although there are 
forests of the Borassus flabellif6rmis in. the north of the island, you seldom 
meet with a single tree of the Cocos nucifera ; and that, although there are 
forests of the Cocos nucifera in the south of the island, you seldom mect 
with a single tree of the Borassus flabelliférmis there. 

The Kitul Tree, or Caryota urens, has given rise in Ceylon to a distinct 
cast amongst the natives of the country. This cast is called the cast of 
Jaggeraros, from the sugar which is made of the produce of the Caryota 

Pa 


v 


214 Foreign Notices. — Australasia. 


irens being called Jaggery; and from the whole of the above cast, both male 
and female, who are very numerous, being employed in the culture of the 
tree itself, or in the manufacture of the sugar which is procured from it. 
No sugar is made in Ceylon from the sugar-cane; all the sugar used by 
the natives of that island is made either from the Cocos nucifera, or Bo- 
rassus flabelliférmis, or CaryOta trens. Great quantities of sugar are made 
from these trees, both for their own consumption and for exportation. It 
is sold for one fourth or one sixth of the price of the cheapest sugar made 
from the sugar-cane. (See Sir Alewander Johnston’s Letter to the Royal 
Asiatic Society of Great Britain, Vol. 1. p. 545.) 

Culture of Indigo on the Coast of Coromandel.—A memoir on this subject, 
detailing the choice of soil and seed, sowing, routine culture, reaping, and 
the manufacture of the dye, by M. B. Plague, will be found in the Annal. 
Marit. for July, 1825, and an abstract in the Bull. des Sciences Agricoles for 

_July, 1827. It is not worth abridging, but it may be well to know where 
to refer for such information. 

East India Spinach. —The Beta bengalénsis and Salsola indica are said, 
by Dr. Francis Hamilton, to be cultivated for this purpose. (Brews. Jour., 
Oct. 1827, p. 244.) 

Fish are fed to a great extent in the neighbourhood of Canton, chiefly 
on boiled rice, to which is sometimes added blood or other offal animal 
matter. (J. VM. in Brande’s Jour., Oct. 1827.) 


AUSTRALASIA. 


Trees here appear to follow the same Laws as other vegetable Productions, 
regarding the effects they produce upon the soil wherein they grow. It has 
long been remarked in America, that, on the forests being cut down, young 
trees of a different species sprout up in the places of the old ones; and here 
the same remark, in a great measure, holds good, acacias very commonly 
making their appearance on land that has been once under cultivation, and 
afterwards permitted to relapse into a state of nature. From this circum- 
stance it should seem that trees, like other vegetables, extract a particular 
substance from the ground, which substance it is necessary should be 
restored, before the same species of tree can be readily grown a second 
time ; a restoration to be effected, perhaps, by such chemical changes in the 
constituent particles of the soil, as may arise from the cultivation of other 
species. (Cunningham’s Two Years in New South Wales.) 


Art. II. Domestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


_TuE Perforator ( fig. 60.) is used by Sir Richard Colt Hoare as a sub- 
stitute for the spade, in planting leaf-wood trees, or all those which make 


Domestic Notices. — England. 215 


tap-roots, and are not included in the pine and fir tribe. It was invented 
by Mr. Munro, formerly of the Bristol nursery, and is made by Mr. Fussell, 
of Nunney, in Somersetshire, at 8s. each. The mode of using it is as fol- 
lows :—One man employs the instrument while another man or boy holds 
a bundle of plants. The man first inserts the instrument in the soil, holding 
it up for the reception of the plant, round which, when introduced, he 
inserts the iron three times, in order to loosen the soil about the roots, 
then treads down the turf, and the plant becomes as firmly set in the ground 
as if it had been long planted. ‘Two men will plant in one day from five to 
six hundred, at 1s. per hundred; whereas, by digging holes, the expense 
would be 3s. per hundred, and the planting not done so well. (Sir R.C. 
Hoare, in Com. to the Bath Agricultural Society, of Dec. 1826.) 

Bregazzi’s Bark-bed Thermometer ( fig. 61.) is one of the best instru- 
ments of the kind which has been invented. By inserting it so 
that the bulb may be of an equal depth with the bottom of the 
plunged pots, the greatest heat to: which the fibres in the pots are 
subjected is ascertained by inspection (a), without the trouble 
of moving the instrument. 

Bregazzi’s Hot-house Thermometer ( fig. 62.) has a double back; 
the advantage of which is 
that, when hung from the 
root of the hot-house, the 
heat of the sun against the 
back (6 c) is prevented from 
operating on the bulb (d), 
by the current of air which 
passes between the backs. 

In Jessop’s Nursery, Chel- 
tenham, is a standard Bour- 
dine peach tree, growing in the most luxuriant manner, and 
covered with several hundreds of fine fruit; also a remarkably 
large netted oblong melon, which weighs 14 lbs., is 15 in. in 
length, and 2 ft. 5.4n. incircumference. In the pinery, rice may 
be seen growing under water. (Cheltenham Chron., Sept. 15.)— 
The melon and some of the peaches were sent us by Mr. Jessop, 
but they were too far gone to judge of their flavour. 

The Diamond Plum is perhaps the largest fruit of the plum 
kind that is knewn. In form and flavour it resembles the 
Magnum bonum, but its colour is a dark purple, and flavour 
perhaps rather superior. It was found by chance in the nursery 
of Mr. Hooker, at Brenchley, near Lamberhurst, in Kent. The tree 
is a standard, supposed to have sprung up accidentally from 
seed; it grows vigorously, and, in orchards, its fruit will form a” 
fine contrast to the Yellow Magnums. The Purple Magnum 
bonum, we think, would have been a suitable name for it, as 
conveying a good idea both of the fruit and of the tree. Plants 
of this and the Washington Plum, another fruit of superior excel- 
lence, introduced by Robert Barclay, Esq., of Bury Hill, will be eagerly 
sought after by orchardists. 

The Beurré @ Aremberg Pear is one of the greatest bearers that we have, 
and comes very early into bearing ; it is also considered a good keeper, and 
stands in the first class in point of flavour. Some trees in the garden of 
Lord Farnborough, at Bromley Hill; Kent, may be referred to as proofs. 

Preservation of Apples. —Any good baking sort, which is liable to rot, if 
peeled and cut into slices about the thickness of one sixth of an inch, and 
dried in the sun, or in a slow oven, till sufficiently desiccated, may afterwards 
be kept in boxes in a dry place, for a considerable time; and only requires 

Pp 4 


216 Domestic Notices. — England. 


to be soaked in water for an hour or two before using. (Jour. of Science, 
July, 1827, p. 272.) 

A Pine-apple will keep for a long time when its crown is removed, and 
will also be greatly improved in flavour, for the more aqueous parts of the 
fruit gradually evaporate, and leave it much more saccharine and vinous in 
its flavour ; which natural process is totally destroyed by the vegetation of 
the crown, just upon the same principle that an onion or carrot loses its 
flavour when it begins to sprout in the spring. (Quar. Jour., Oct. 1827.) 

Large Currants. —In the garden of the Rev. H. Bolton, I lately gathered 
several black currants, which measured in girth lengthwise two inches and 
one sixth, and in girth round two inches, and weighed forty-five grains each. 
The same tree produced many of equal size.— Thos. Williams, gardener 
ta the Rev. H. Bolton, Ratcliffe Lodge, near Nottingham. Sept.18. 

Large Cauliflowers. —1 have lately also cut, in the same garden, several 
cauliflowers, measuring, when stript of their green leaves, three feet three 
inches round, of fine flavour for the table, and remarkably handsome. — Id. 

Rheum tataricum has been in cultivation in my father’s garden, and some 
few others here, for about twelve years. The chief advantages attending it 
are, that it does not require peeling, 1s, when cooked, of as fine a colour as red 
currant jelly, and continues to send up new leaves till the middle of Octo- 
ber. By forcing with dung laid over an arch of wickerwork, I have seen it 
on the table by the first of January. I do not know whether it can be 
obtained at the London nurseries; but it may be had of Mr. James Salter 
of this city, to whom I gave plants more than a year ago. It thrives best 
on a deep and stiff soil. — Charles C. Babington. Bath, Aug. 21. ~ 

Tart Rhubarb, Turnip tops, Beet Spinach, Asparagus, and various other 
stalks and leaves produced from bulbous, tuberous, or fleshy roots, may be 
grown in barrels or hampers, in ships, on the plan which is shown in your 
Encyclopedia of Gardening (§ 5992.) for growing chiccory; and nothing 
can be easier than to have new potatoes and mushrooms ina ship’s hold all 
the year. Spinach barrels should be kept on deck, and covered with a 
glass case to protect them from the sea spray. Small salads may be grown 
twenty ways. — A Horticultural Sailor. Greenwich, Sept. 25. 

Gardens of Ships. — To sow in the temperate zone and reap between 
the tropics, is a somewhat singular thing. Yet it is constantly done. For 
our great Kast India ships, in imitation of the Dutch, who first introduced 
the practice, have little salad gardens in flat wooden boxes on their poops, 
where the seed acted upon by a heat increasing daily, shoots up in a sur- 
prisingly rapid manner. In these gardens the number of crops in the year 
are more numerous than in any spot on earth, for the gardeners, if so 
minded, can command almost any temperature. (Weekly Review.) 

Change of Colour in Flowers. — It is not generally known, although long 
ago noticed by M. Decandolle, that, among flowers, yellows will not pro- 
duce blues, nor blues yellows, although both these primitive colours will 
sport into almost every other hue. ‘Thus the hyacinth, the natural colour 
of which is blue, will not produce a yellow; for the dull half green flowers 
called yellow hyacinths are, in our judgments, white approaching green ; 
the blue crocus will not vary into yellow, nor the yellow into blue; and 
the ranunculus and the dahlia, the natural colour of both which, notwith- 
standing popular belief to the contrary with respect to the dahlia, is, we 
believe, yellow, although they are the most sportive of all the flowers of the 
garden, varying from pink to scarlet and deepest shades of purple, have never 
been seen to exhibit any disposition to become blue. (Quar. Jour., Oct. 1827.) 

Night-flowering Stock. —The flowers of this plant, which are of a brownish 
hue, will become green in one night, from the steam of horse-dung, in its 
first stage of fermentation. The effect is probably produced by the ammo- 
niacal gas, which is deleterious both to plants and imsects, and was em-. 


Domestic Notices. — England. 217 


ployed by Miller, Baldwin, and other gardeners, for destroying the red 
spider and bug on pine-apple plants. —D. B. July, 1826. 

Horticultural Impostor. —1 consider it would be well to caution the 
readers of your Magazine against a man now travelling the country, offering 
tulips for sale, which he says are tree tulips, and wili produce many flowers 
on one stalk of various colours, and, I am sorry to say, many have been 
imposed on by him here. I should have thought the striped dahlias sold 
all over the country, by such another fellow, last year, had not been quite 
forgotten. He asks 1s. 6d. each for the tulips, and says I have purchased 
twenty dozen of him, and that he obtained them when abroad. —C. Hale 
Jessop. Cheltenham, Sept. 1827.— The colour of the flowers of dark roses, 
dahlias, asters, as well as of many other, and probably of all plants, may be 
changed or discharged by the application of the fumes of sulphur. Burning 
a common brimstone match under them will do. The secret has been Jong 
known to gardeners in France and Germany, and we have frequently seen 
it tried with roses in this country. At a meeting of the Horticultural 
Society of London on the 16th of October last, some variegated flowers of 
dahlias were exhibited, from which the purple colour had been partially 
discharged by the partial application of the fumes of sulphur. ‘The dahlias 
were of course striped or variegated; and something of this sort may have 
led to the imposition referred to by Mr. Jessop. 

The Silk Tree, Acacia Julibrissm, in the Bristol nursery, was planted 
twenty-two years ago. It began to flower four years ago, and the two last 
years abundantly. On the 1st of September last, it displayed about three 
thousand blossoms. ‘The tree covers a wall to the height of twenty feet, 
and the breadth of fifteen feet.— H. D. Sept. 27. 

Two Rows of Dahlias in the Bristol nursery extend each one hundred and 
fifty yards and exhibit about a hundred different sorts, chiefly double, and 
almost all raised from seed by Mr. Miller. — Jd. 

Roots of the Arracacha have been received by Dr. Hamilton, from Car- 
thagena, packed in powdered charcoal ; they have been planted in the nur- 
sery of Mr. Pontey at Plymouth, and are doing well. The native situation, 
soil, and climate of the Arracacha are very similar to those of the potato. 
(Plym. Jour., Aug.) A second notice of September 22d informs us that 
two plants of Arracacha are now nearly in flower at Mr. Pontey’s, and that 
two which Dr. Hamilton retained for private experiment, as to their capa- 
bility of bearing the cold of our summer in the open air, are flourishing 
vigorously, without any artificial aid ; of course their progress has not been 
so rapid as that of a plant plunged in Mr. Pontey’s tan-pit. Their state of 
growth, however, is such as to promise favourably for the important experi- 
ment of acclimating this valuable esculent next year. (Jbid.) 

The Seeds of Tetragonia expdnsa were sown in the open garden at Yar- 
mouth last autumn, and have produced fine plants this spring; by which it 
appears that this plant will endure our winters in mild situations.—J. Youell 
Yarmouth, July 27. 

The quickest and most certain Mode of raising the Mulberry Tree is from 
cuttings of the old branches. Take a branch in the month of March, eight 
or nine feet in length, plant it half its length in any good soil, and it 
will succeed to admiration, producing fruit the following spring. This I 
have witnessed in several instanees. — Id. 

Planting by mudding in. —I am sorry so useful a mode of planting should 
be disapproved of by some of your correspondents, in consequence of the 
earth afterwards becoming cemented. This will certainly be the case if 
stiff loam be used ; but let them use two thirds of any light rich soil, with 
one third loam, and the plants will succeed to admiration. Last April I 
removed plants with fruit blossoms fully expanded, and in a growing state ; 
one plant completely perfected and ripened its fruit, and made abundance 


218 Domestic Notices. — England. 


of wood, the others increased to my satisfaction, and have made good 
plants. — Id. 

The Genista tinctoria, a low trailing native shrub, having something of 
the appearance of the common broon, is said to be much used in Russia as 
a cure for hydrophobia, and the Medico-Botanical Society of London are 
resolved on encouraging trials to be made in this country. (Newsp.) 

The Red Spider and the Damp, the one as bad as the other, in melon 
frames, may be kept under by covering the surface with clean gravel, about 
three fourths of an inch deep. The roots find their way to the surface of 
the mould, and form a matted texture under the gravel, where, being more 
accessible to air, and yet kept moist, the plants grow so vigorously as to 
overcome every enemy. The practice is common in this neighbourhood. 
— James Stephens, gardener to George Cooke, E'sq., Carr House, near Don- 
caster. 

Chemical Relationship of Plants. — A writer in the Isis has undertaken 
to prove that there exists a chemical relation between, 1st, the different 
parts of a plant ; 2d, the different species of a genus; and 5d, the different 
genera of a tribe. In proof, he refers to certain experiments from which 
tannin was found in every part of the oak, the narcotic principle in every 
part of the Belladonna ; the prussic acid in the kernels of all the species of 
the genus Prunus, and a yellow colouring more or less in the bark of the 
roots of all the species of the genus Galium. This writer, Mr. Rudge, found 
one common principle in semi-flosculous plants, and another in the Umbel- 
liferaz. Enquiries of this sort will tend materially to assist the study of 
natural classification. 

Vital Principle of Seeds. — A small portion of the Royal Park of Bushy 
was broken up some time ago, for the purpose of ornamental culture, when 
immediately several flowers sprang up, of the kinds which are ordinarily 
cultivated in gardens; this led to an investigation, and it was ascertained 
that this identical plot had been used as a garden not later than the time 
of Oliver Cromwell, more than one hundred and fifty years before. (Jon. 
Mag.) 

Apples and Nuts. —Six apples were last week plucked in an orchard, at 
Caton Green, near this town, which weighed four pounds and a half, and 
averaged twelve inches each, in circumference. We stated in a former paper, 
that apples and potatees were both of a price in Ulverston market, 6d. 
the imperial peck ; but on Thursday the 15th inst. apples were as low as 
5d. the peck, and nuts in the husk equally low. ‘This is really without 
parallel. (Lan. Gaz., Sept.) 

Nuts. — We have heard a great deal about the quantities of nuts, and the 
number ina cluster, and sixteen, twenty, thirty, &c. &c., have been stated as 
gathered; but all these are outdone, and may be considered as common as 
a cluster of two. A gentleman in Kendal has in his possession a cluster of 
the common hazel nut, and which we saw, containing fifty-three perfectly 
formed nuts. (Westmoreland Gaz., Sept.) 

Gardening, in the neighbourhood of Exmouth, is at its lowest ebb, and the 
natives generally are half a century behind their fellow-men. The nearest 
place worth mentioning is that of Lord Rolles at Bicton, and that is not 
kept up with any degree of spirit. — M7. Exmouth, March 10. 1827. 

A Turnip is now growing at Enville of the undermentioned size: breadth 
across the leaves, four feet one inch; circumference, two feet seven inches 
and a half; from the crown of the turnip to the ground, nine inches. 
(Shrewsb. Chron., Sept.) 

A Mushroom two feet eight inches in circumference, measuring ten inches 
round the stem, and weighing 1 |b. 8 oz., was gathered, in the last week of 
August, in a field at Mottram, in Longdendale. (Manchester Herald, Sept.) 


Domestic Notices. — Scotland. 219 


Fruit eaten by Rats. — A gentleman of Doncaster, who had frequently 
missed wall fruit from his garden, endeavoured to find out the robbers, but 
for some time he was unsuccessful. A day or two ago, however, he observed 
a number of rats issue from an adjacent building, and commence their work 
of destruction on the fruit, which they voraciously eat. Several of the rats 
were destroyed. (Yorkshire Gaz., Sept. 8.) 


SCOTLAND. 


Caledonian Horticultural Society. —'The Annual General Meeting of this 
Society was held September 6th, in the Physicians’ Hall, Dr. Duncan, sen. 
in the chair, when several new members were admitted by ballot, and 
reports from the Finance and Prize Committees were read, from the latter 
of which it appeared that, in the competition of the preceding day, prizes 
had been awarded for twenty-five different articles. 

Report of the Wine Committee. A smaller number of samples of wine 
have been produced to-day than on former occasions, only five competitors 
having appeared. The Committee beg leave to report that the best of 
those produced is one with the motto, In vino veritas, No. 1., by Daniel 

‘Vere, Esq., of Stonebyres, to whom they award the prize for the best and 
most vigorous home-made wine. No cider has been produced, which the 
Committee regret, as, from the increased attention bestowed on orchards, 
and on the cultivation of the apple tree, since the publication of the report 
on the orchards of Scotland, a considerable field has been opened for the 
manufacture of cider, which might tend much to the advantage of the 
tenantry. The prize offered by the Society for the best liqueur has brought 
out a variety of these. Of these the Committee considered Nectar No. 2. 
prepared by Mrs. W. H..Lizars, 5. St. James’s Square, as being decidedly 
the best, to whom they accordingly awarded the medal. But the Com- 
mittee cannot resist their desire to recommend another medal to Mr. 
Lewis Pederanca, butler to the Hon. Douglas Gordon Halyburton of 
Halyburton, who has forwarded ten samples of different liqueurs, some of 
which are exceedingly palatable; and also of an oil prepared from walnuts, 
the growth of Scotland, which, in their opinion, is excellently adapted for 
table use and culinary purposes. ‘The Committee propose this medal, with 
the double view of showimg the Society’s approbation of his skill and 
attention, and of inducing others to follow his example. 

Communications. An interesting communication by Mr. Dewar, gardener 
at Rockville, on the use of steam in raising melons, which had been used 
at Rockville for two seasons with great success, was then read. The 
reading of two other communications; the one on raising ananas without 
fire heat, by Mr. Bisset, Methven Castle, the other on raising auriculas 
from seed, by Mr. Forrester, gardener at Carlowrie, were delayed for want 
of time, on account of the immediate assembling for 

The Dinner. In the afternoon, the Society celebrated their eighteenth 
annual festival of Pomona, in the Waterloo Tavern (Gibb’s), the Right 
Hon. the Ear! of Roseberry, president, in the chair, supported on his right 
and left by the Right Hon. the Lord Provost, and the Right Hon. Sir 
John Sinclair. Andrew Dickson and John Linning, Hsgqrs., officiated as 
croupiers. Dr. Scott of Corstorphine having craved a blessing, about two 
hundred gentlemen proceeded, with appetites nothing loath, to attack an 
excellent dinner, and a dessert, which comprised the competition fruits, con- 
sisting of no fewer than two hundred and eighty-eight different dishes. A 
great many toasts were drank, among others, “The staple exports of Scot- 
land, Gardeners, Doctors, and Black Cattle.” (Caledonian Mer., Sept. 8.) 

The Glasgow Horticultural Society and Library. — Arrangements with 
regard to the Society and Library till the general Meeting in August 1828, 
and as to the intention of the managers till 1854, have been published, and 


290 Domestic Notices. — Scotland. 


signed by the president, Thomas Hopkirk Esq., from which the following 
are extracts :— 

The first meeting of the Society for competition, will be held on the first 
Wednesday of June, 1828; the articles of competition are as follows, and 
must be presented betwixt eleven and twelve o’clock, noon : — 

The twelve best distinct varieties of tulips; four of them roses, four of 
them purple or brown, and four of them yellow grounds; the six heaviest 
early white turnips; the twenty-five best filled pods of peas, excluding 
those raised in front of hot-house borders; the fifty heaviest gooseberries, 
taken from one bush, of a sort considered suitable for tarts; the two best 
cucumbers; the three pots of best forced strawberries, of at least two 
varieties. 

The General Meeting will be held on the second Wednesday of August. 

Articles of Competition. The six best seedling double carnations, not 
fewer than three varieties, from seed saved by the competitor; the twelve 
best species of annual flowers, raised and grown without artificial heat, 
cover, or protection of any kind; the six best species of annual flowers, 
raised and grown under hand-glasses, frames, or any other cover, bué 
without bottom heat of any kind; the six best species of annual flowers, 
raised and grown on bottom heat, but without cover or protection; the 
four best species of annual flowers in pots, which usually in all stages 
receive artificial heat and protection; the highest-flavoured melon above 
2|bs. weight; the best imperial pint, or 3 lb., of rasps, of one or more 
varieties; the twelve best plums; the three best heads of cauliflower ; 
the six largest and most solid stalks of celery. 

Three prizes will be awarded for each of the foregoing articles, except for 
the annual flowers, for which there will be only the value of a second 
prize allowed for each proposed mode of cultivation. Competitors may 
contend for all the modes, but, though successful in more than one, shall 
have right to the difference only betwixt the value of a second and third 
prize for all more than the one, and the value of a third prize will be 
granted to the persons who rank second in such cases. 

The large silver medal of the Horticultural Society of London shall be 
awarded, for 1828, to the member of this Society who, upon the average of 
from three to six monthly visits to the garden under his charge during that 
year, and on comparing it with the gardens of other competitors, and 
taking into consideration the assistance afforded, the natural and other 
advantages, the extent and variety of articles cultivated, and all other 
matters which may influence his successful management, shall appear to 
the Visitors to display most knowledge of his business, greatest industry, 
and altogether most merit. There shall be other two prizes awarded by 
this Society to the competitors who, in the estimation of the visitors, rank 
second and third in point of merit, which prizes shall be raised by voluntary 
contribution for this special purpose. Members proposing to complete, 
must give intimation in writing to the Secretary before February, 1828. 

The Library shall be opened, and on the first and third Wednesdays of 
every succeeding month books will be given out and taken in, from six 
to eight o’clock in the evening; except on the days when meetings of the 
Society are held, on which days the Library will be opened instead of, 
on those mentioned above. 

All friendly to the objects of the Society are admitted to the competition 
meetings. ‘The regulations of the Society and Library now printed, will be 
strictly adhered to. — Thomas Hopkirk, President. Glasgow, Aug. 1827.. 

The Dundee Horticultural Society held their Annual Festival Meeting 
on the 12th of September, when a rich display of flowers, fruits, and 
vegetables were brought forward in competition, and prizes awarded to 
upwards of twenty individuals for nearly forty different articles, to Mrs. 


« 


= 


Domestic Notices. — Scotland. 221 


Ty 


Thain for the best white currant wine, Mrs. Guthrie, for the best black 
currant ditto, and Mrs, Turnbull, for the best wine from a combination 
of fruits. 

A very large American gourd, weighing 66 lbs., was exhibited from 
Arthurstone, some fine white plums from Castle Huntly, and a number of 
fine seedling pinks from Airly Castle ; some very fine white and green 
endive, white beet, mangold wurtzel (in Fife vulgarly called Mungo Wilsons), 
vegetable marrow, chiccory, salsafy, and scorzonera were produced by 
Mr. John Dick, Ballindean, and some very large early cabbages by Mr. 
Radley of the Asylum. 

The Hall was opened to the public at half-past one, when an admiring 
throng, comprising the rank and beauty of the town and neighbourhood, 
honoured the Seciety by their presence. Seventy-six gentlemen sat down 
to dinner, and afterwards spent the evening in the most convivial and 
agreeable manner ; giving toasts, calling upon one another for songs, and 
those complying having their healths drank in return for their com- 
plaisance. (Dundee Courier, Sept. 14.) 

Dumfries and Galloway Horticultural Society. — The fifteenth Anniver- 
sary Meeting of the Society took place on the 20th of September. The 
prize show was opened in the Court Hall, at one o’clock; and on no 
former occasion was there ever such a rich display of fruit of all kinds, in 
the highest state of perfection. The quality was generally so excellent, 
that the judges had great difficulty in deciding many of the prizes. Those 
who attended were much gratified with the exhibition; and it certainly 
proves the vast importance of the institution, as the means of introducing 
such a variety of new and fine kinds of fruit into the country. It is the 
only institution in this quarter which has for its object the improvement of 
the country, and it is well entitled to the fostering care and patronage of 
the noblemen and gentlemen of this district. It was amongst the first 
provincial institutions of the kind; and many others of a similar nature 
have now been established in various parts of the kingdom, which are 
most liberally supported. It is to be hoped that our Society, which has 
stood the test of years, will not be neglected. 

It was proposed to publish the new prize list, as usual, about Christmas. 
It was mnch regretted that no effectual steps had been taken to forward 
the formation of the experimental garden, which has long been in con- 
templation, and the utility of which all are convinced of, from the 
experience of gardens of the same kind already established, particularly 
those of London and Edinburgh; and the advantages of an experimental 
garden in this place would be of more importance now, from the liberality 
of the London Society, in kindly offering to supply us with a portion of 
their rare and useful plants, &c. The meeting, therefore, again recom- 
mended the above object to the particular attention of the members, and. 
reappointed the gentlemen named last year as a committee, to forward so 
desirable a purpose. . ; 

The meeting, taking into consideration the report of the Committee of 
Management, respecting the liberality of the London Society, in sending 
from their garden at Chiswick, a valuable box of plants, grafts, and seeds, 
which have been cultivated by Mr. Irving, at Nunholm, reported as fol- 
lows : — Most of the grafts and plants, &c., have succeeded well, and the 
produce will be distributed among the members in due time. They have 
also to express their gratitude for the splendid silver medal presented to 
the Society, and awarded to W. Chalmers, gardener to E. Stott, Esq., of 
Castledykes, and now produced for the inspection of the meeting. The 
unanimous thanks of the general meeting were voted to the London 
Society, for these and other favours conferred on the Dumfries Society. 


229 Domestic Notices. — Scotland. 


The office-bearers for the ensuing year were chosen, and several new 
members admitted. 

After the meeting in the Court Hall, a considerable number of the 
members and friends of the institution dined together at the King’s Arms 
Inn. Francis Short, Esq. in the chair. ‘The company were highly 
gratified, and spent the evening in a most agreeable manner, and many 
appropriate toasts and songs were given. After dinner, the resolution of 
the 16th of December last was taken into consideration, when it was 
unanimously agreed to vote a medal to James Webster, gardener to John 
H. Maxwell, Esq., of Munshes, as a reward of merit, persevering industry, 
and ability as a gardener; and also for his length of service in the same 
place. From his master’s certificate it appeared that “he had served as 
head-gardener for thirty-four years; his conduct at all times met with the 
approbation of his employers; he is a sober, steady, honest, and industrious 
man, and his qualifications as a gardener are of the first rate.” Hehas been 
a member of the Society ever since its formation, has regularly competed, 
and has been generally successful. Upwards of twenty prizes were given 
away to different gardeners, for fruits, flowers, and culinary vegetables. 

A few almonds were produced from the garden of J. H. Maxwell, Esq., 
of Munshes. 

A beautiful stem of the Ytcca jilamentésa was produced, which had 
flowered in the open border, in the garden of Drumlanrig Castle. 

An orange tree in fruit, marched by a bottle and water (Gard. Mag., 
vol. ii. p. 33.), was produced by J. Cunningham, gardener, Cargen; he also 
produced apples which had been taken from the same tree in 1825-6-7, 
in excellent preservation, the Tom Apple. 

An apple, the French Crab, which had been off the tree twelve months, 
was produced by A. M‘Gillivray, in very good preservation. 

Retarded gooseberries, in fine condition, and which had not been covered, 
were produced by A. M‘Gillivray and R. Carson. 

A new apple was produced by Gilbert Munroe, gardener to Viscount 
Kenmure, of excellent flavour; the tree first showed fruit in 1824; it 
was named the Kenmure Pippin. 

A variety of new apples had been seen by the Secretary a few days ago, 
produced by R. Mundell, Esq., at Wallace Hall, from seed sown by Mr. 
Mundell, one of which was particularly well flavoured, and the tree against 
the wall was very healthy; the graft was taken from a hedge-row, and 
grafted on a Siberian stock. Mr. Mundell wished it to be called the 
Wallace Hall Pippin. 

The best home-made wine was produced by Miss M. Maxwell of Ter- 
raughtie, made from white currants. 

Apple cheese was produced by Mrs. W. Gordon, Buccleuch Street, one 
and two years preserved; a rich and excellent preserve. 

A fine gourd, from Cargen garden, 68lbs. weight, was much admired ; 
and also fine Altringham turnips. 

Six different meetings and prize shows were held by this Society during 
the preceding part of the year, and nearly forty prizes given away. (Dum- 
fries Jour.) 

The Perthshire Horticultural Society, however little it has obtruded on 
public notice, can confidently claim the precedence of the greater part of 
similar societies throughout the kingdom, seeing that it has now been in 
active operation for twenty-one years; and, although it has only had the 
pecuniary aid of a very limited number of those in affluence, the beneficial 
effects produced through its influence on the various branches of horticul- 
ture have not only been creditable to the operative gardeners, but also highly 
advantageous to their employers. Let it not be understood that, in making 
this statement, we wish to under-rate the state of horticulture in Perth- 


Domestic Notices. — Scotland. 293 


shire at the period when this association was formed, which we reckon, in 
general, not to have been a whit behind any county in Scotland; but it 
cannot be denied that, through the want of a suitable medium for inter- 
course, and comparison of flowers, fruits, and vegetable produce, previous to 
its institution, many of the articles tabled in competition at the’ earliest 
meetings, would not have disgraced those exhibited at Kscomb plum fair: 
and although it has made no effort to send out a deputation to inspect and 
report the horticulture of France and the Netherlands, nor essayed to collect 
the chrysanthemums of China, its energies have been directed to objects of 
no less subserviency to promote the improvement of horticulture, by exciting 
a spirit of emulation amongst the operatives within its range, not only to 
collate those productions already in the country, but to attempt the attain- 
ment of new and superior varieties by raising from seed, and better modes 
in the culture of articles of acknowledged worth, having, since its com- 
mencement, awarded no less than five hundred and thirty premiums to the 
most successful rearers and cultivators of the better kinds of flowers, fruits, 
and culinary vegetables. Whilst by this institution the amateurs of horticul- 
ture have been highly gratified, and the energies of professional gardeners 
stirred up by being brought into contact with each other, in examining and 
discussing the merits of articles brought forward in competition, the youths 
who have devoted themselves to the profession have enjoyed very important 
advantages in being regularly admitted to the show-table, where they early 
and easily obtain a knowledge of those properties that constitute good 
productions, which otherwise might have cost them years of hard research. 
Often have we seen the apprentice of a year’s standing shoulder himself 
towards his senior, and, in the attitude of profound attention, hear him 
descant on the merits of the prize articles, though with a wobegone coun- 
tenance he discovers, towards the bottom of the table, several of the pro- 
ductions which he assisted in carrying to the show, thinking them then the 
best in the world. Happy it is for the age we now live in, that the diffusion 
of knowledge has become the bent of the higher ranks in society, inducing 
the establishment of Mechanics’ Institutions, Libraries, &c. May we not 
indulge the hope that the Perthshire Horticultural Society will continue to 
receive the countenance and support of those who have an interest in its 
pursuits, and who, from their circumstances in life, can render its efforts 
more extensively useful? (An Original Member.—Perthshire Courier, Oct. 4.) 

Strathmore Horticultural Society.—Sir,—In perusing your interesting 
Magazine, I perceive you are a warm encourager of Provincial Horticul- 
tural Societies ; and since you have expressed a wish to be informed of 
the rise and progress of such institutions throughout the country, I have 
taken the liberty of informing you of the existence of a horticultural so- 
ciety with which I am connected, being not a little surprised that an account 
of it has not reached you sooner from an abler hand. Be pleased to know, 
then, that im that rich and fertile part of His Majesty’s Scottish dominions 
called Strathmore and Carse of Gowrie, in which, though there are but 
few gardens that will bear any comparison with some of those magnificent 
establishments described in your Journal, yet there are a number that for 
the warmth of their situation and productiveness of the soil are scarcely 
rivalled in Scotland, and even in many parts of England. In a district like 
this the want of such a society was much felt by some of the more emulous 
gardeners ; and the importance of it having been readily acknowledged by 
several of their employers and amateur brethren, the Strathmore Horticul- 
tural Society came into being. Its object, like all similar institutions, is the 
rewarding and otherwise encouraging those gardeners who excel in their 
various productions, whether for ornament, luxury, or use. Two meetings 
are held annually in the principal inn of Cupar Angus, and the prizes are 
decided by a sub-committee of our number, appointed for the purpose. It 


224 Domestic Notices. — Scotland. 


is, however, a matter of regret that our funds have not enabled us to. ex- 
tend our ambition beyond the distribution of a few money prizes. Although 
the advantages arising from scientific libraries are readily acknowledged by 
all, yet the tardiness with which such propositions are entered into, and the 
partial support we receive from the country gentlemen, make it very doubt- 
ful if ever we shall attain such perfection, however much it could be wished. 
The existence, too, of other societies at Perth, Dundee, and Arbroath, 
operates powerfully against any attempt of this sort. These societies 
necessarily consisting of the gardeners and amateurs in their respective 
circles, their funds individually can never be great ; but if they could see it 
their interest to form themselves into one society, say in Dundee, or in any 
other equally central place to which the means of conveyance from all the 
districts are as frequent, then the formation of a scientific library would be 
accomplished, without a doubt of its success. Even if the Dundee Society, 
by anticipating such a junction, were to attempt something of this kind, 
they may be assured of the co-operation of the most intelligent of the pro- 
fession : indeed, it will be a matter of surprise to many, if that society, 
having a Right Honourable Lord for its president, and embodying wealth 
and intelligence in its committee, does not extend its views to the exciting 
a thirst for more intellectual enjoyment, rather than the gratification of the 
love of money, by some not easy kept. A society, with such intention, 
could scarcely fail to prosper, and no longer (as has been the case on 
some of our show days) should we hear wealthy merchants asking the 
name and use of that thistle-looking thing (pointing to an artichoke), 
or well dressed and apparently respectable females enquiring the use of many 
of our xof uncommon culinary productions; and while the luxuries of the 
higher classes are improved, and those of the middle circles increased, the 
comforts and condition of the mechanic and labourer will also be increased 
and improved, and a higher standard of enjoyment will pervade the whole. 
I am, Sir, &c. — Strathmoriensis. Balbrogie Garden, Aug. 14. 1817. 

The hint of our correspondent, in respect to forming a garden library at 
Dundee, will, we trust, be taken into consideration by the society of that 
place: ultimately, we trust, the example of the Ayrshire Horticultural 
Library will be followed throughout Scotland. Nothing can better show 
the use of local societies, however few their members, or limited their 
sphere of usefulness, than the circumstance mentioned by our correspond- 
ent, of many decent people not knowing the names and uses of what in 
England are considered the commonest garden articles. Books on cockery 
and domestic economy should not be forgotten in provincial libraries. 

Fhe Autumn Meeting of the Strathmore Horticultural Society was held at 
Cupar Angus, August 23., when prizes were awarded for an extensive col- 
lection of flowers, fruits, and home-made wines. The meeting was as usual 

“graced by the presence of a numerous and fashionable assemblage of the 
ladies of Strathmore, who haveuniformly honoured it with their patronage 
and support, and on tis occasion bestowed their decided approbation on 
the very superior collection exhibited. The members of the Society there- 
after partook of an excellent dinner in Rose’s Inn, George Brown, Esq., of 
Blairfield, preses, in absence of Mr. Ross of Balgersho, and spent the evening 
with the utmost unanimity. (Scotsman, Sept. 1.) 

Edinburgh Fruit Market, Aug. 15.—The prices of gooseberries, white 
and red currants, and raspberries are now very low. ‘The black currants 
were almost instantly bought up at 1s. 4d. the imperial quart. Geans also 
sold well at from 8d. to 10d. a pound. Of the apples shown, the Early 
Fullwood and Thorle Pippin were the best ; though not quite ripe, they 
were in fair eating order. Within these three years a pear has made its 
appearance in this quarter, which is not inaptly called the Premature. 
It is a fair bearer, especially in sheltered places, about the same size, more 


Domestic Notices. — Scotland. 295 


juicy and delicious, and fully a fortnight earlier, than the universal fayourite 
of the horticulturists, the Crawford. The Prematures brought from 
16s. to 20s. a bushel (52 lbs.), while no person offered more than half a 
guinea for the Crawfords. Lemon pears sold from 12s. to 14s. a bushel. 
There were also a few early plums shown, but not so many as to render a 
notice of their price requisite. Grapes are an abundant crop, and as there 
have been very few dinners this season, the demand for them has been very 
limited. The gardeners considered themseives pretty well off who got 
their stock disposed of at a shilling a pound. (Scotsman.) 

Sept. 1.—The best Hawthorndens and summer strawberries yesterday 
morning sold from 1s. 6d. to 2s. a peck, and the Lemon and Sugar pears 
brought the same prices. So plentiful were the universal favourites, the 
Crawfords, that they sold at from 1s. 2d. to 1s. 6d. a peck. Jargonelles sold 
from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. a peck. Plums are making their appearance. Orleans 
brought 4d. and 5d., and Magnums 1s. 5d. and 1s. 6d. a dozen. Grapes 
were sold at 1s. 6d. and 1s. 8d. a pound. (Scotsman.) 

Sept. 29.—So great is the crop in this neighbourhood, that the horticul- 
turists complain they are getting no more for their Sovereigns and Ribstone 
Pippins, their Longuevilles and Yairs, than they used to do for the most 
indifferent apples and pears that cumbered their orchards, ‘These fruits 
sell from 1s. to 2s.a peck. Magnums sell from 1s. to 2s. a dozen. Scotch 
damsons retail at 1s. the imperial quart, or about 6d. a pound; but the 
Burnets [?], the most useful of all plums, bring 2s. 6d. a peck, or about 33d. 
a pound. Owing to the arrival of English and Welsh cargoes, the fruit is 
still cheaper in Glasgow than it is here. (Scotsman.) 

Clydesdale Orchards. — During the last ten days the fruit in most of the 
Clydesdale orchards has been sold, in the usual way, by publicroup. The 
sales were conducted under circumstances of a more cheering complexion 
than they were in 1826. Taken in the aggregate, the crop of apples and 
pears is double, and that of the Orleans and Whitton plums nearly triple 
that of last year; yet, nevertheless, so keen was the competition, and the 
bidders were so confident in the improving circumstances of the country, 
that the fruit brought about last year’s prices. According to quality and 
other circumstances of minor importance, prices ran from 41. to 5/. a boll. 
Fruits in general are about a month later than they were last season. Craw- 
ford pears, and the White or Early Fullwood apples, are the only sorts 
fully ripe, and so few of them have been brought to market, that the rates 
at which they are likely to be retailed are not yet ascertained. (Scotsman, 
Aug. 22.) 

Apples and Pears in Glasgow are retailing at a halfpenny a pound ; they 
are to be had of good quality at 1d. and 13d., while the price of the very 
finest quality does not exceed 3d. English damson plums are retailing in 
the fruit-shops at 2d. per pound. The fruit merchants say that they do not 
remember fruit of all kinds ever being cheaper than it is this season. 
(Scotsman, Sept. 29.) 

A Potato is at present growing in the garden of Mr. James Low, North 
Berwick, from a tuber that was planted whole, the stems of which cover 
closely a space of ground 6 feet 8 inches diameter, or 44 feet 5 inches 
4 parts square. It is likely the gross produce will be made known to the 
public. Nine years ago an experiment of the same sort was tried by Mr. 

ougald Campbell, head-gardener to Sir John Maxwell, when in all one 
hundred and one potatoes were turned up, which exactly filled a Lanark- 
shire peck, weighing of course 41 lbs. (Scotsman, Sept. 8.) 

A single Grain of Wheat, thrown by accident over a hedge into a garden 
at Waterbeach last autumn, has produced thirty-eight ears, containing, on 
the average, fifty-one grains in each, or, in the whole, above nineteen hundred 
fold! (Scotsman, Aug. 22.) 

Vor. III.— No. 10. 0) 


226 Domestic Notices. — Scotland. 


So many wonderful Stalks of Oats have been sent us within the last fort-. 
night, that, if the grain had been ripe, we would have thrashed it our- 
selves, and got new meal without delay. Two of these grew on Mr. 
Brown’s farm of Bellriding, and contained, the one 301, and the other 280 
pickles of grain. Another stalk, which grew at Carthagena, was upwards 
of seven feet in length, and was at the same time so bushy at the top, that 
we tired counting the individual pickles. But the crowning stalks of all 
were two which grew in a field on the estate of Cargen. Both were most 
beautiful, and would yield singly a return of five hundred fold. One of 
them, which we have preserved, is liker a young tropical tree than an ordi- 
nary stalk of potato oats. Near the root it measured one inch in circum- 
ference, and, as near as may be, a foot and a half betwixt the commencement 
and termination of the grain. The flag leaf is an inch and a quarter in 
breadth, and altogether we never witnessed such a gigantic specimen of 
what, according to Dr. Johnson, forms the food of men in Scotland, and of 
horses in England. (Dumfries Courier.) 

A single Stalk of Berwickshire Oats, from the farm of Picketlaw, in the 
parish of Haglesham, was sent us, having the extraordinary number of 317 
grains. (Glasgow Herald.) 

A Stalk of Oats was pulled on the farm of Lampits, parish of Carnwath, 
on which there were in all 470 grains. It was pulled on a patch of moss 
just brought under cultivation, and the whole crop is remarkably luxuriant. 
(Scotsman, Aug. 29.) 

A Field of Barley was cut down at Camelon on the 23d of July, which 
is considered remarkably early for this rather backward season. (Scotsman.) 

A Hydrangea, in the Garden of St. Marys Isle, near Kirkcudbright, 
measures round the extremities of the shoots 32 feet, and shows 525 
flowers. It was planted in the open garden by Mr. Nisbett three years ago, _ 
and the old wood has been annually cut to the ground. (Dumfries Courier, 
Aug.) 

A Hydrangea in the Earl of Rosslyn’s Gardens at Dysart House, measures 
round the extremities upwards of 40 feet, is about 6 feet in height, and 
displays not fewer than 605 flowers, many of which are 2% feet in circum- 
ference! And this plant (though, like that at St. Mary’s Isle, it has been 
several times cut down) is not more remarkable for its size than its general 
healthiness, the variety of colour in the flowers, which are for the most part 
exquisitely beautiful, and the uncommon luxuriance of the foliage. (Scots- 
man, Sept. 8.) 

Hainault Scythe. — The most laudable exertions continue to be made, in 
different parts of the country, to introduce this instrument as a substitute for, 
or adjunct to, the sickle. In East Lothian an Irishman (Toner) has cut half a 
Scotch acre of wheat in a day, and at the rate of a Scotch acre of oats in 
eight hours. One peculiar feature of this mode of reaping is, that the lower, 
or nearer the surface, the crop is cut, so much easier is the work for the 
reaper. The United East Lothian Agricultural Society have adopted the 
very judicious mode of giving Toner a premium, on condition of his instruct- 
ing such reapers as may choose to require his assistance, at the rate of 5s. - 
a day. Hopes are entertained that in a few years this style of reaping will 
become general. (Scotsman, Sept. 29.) — The mode of cutting wheat with 
the sharping hook, called bagging, and practised in the neighbourhood of 
London, is in effect exactly the same as the mode by the Hainault scythe ; 
but as the operator with the sharping hook has to stoop very low, it is 
performed at a greater waste of strength. 

Calceoliria purpurea, a new species (p. 196.), and Nepénthes distillatoria 
mascula, flowered in the Edinburgh botanic garden in August last. The 
latter plant was kept in the stove, and produced a very striking effect by 
supporting itself on the adjoining plants, and hanging from them its singular. 


Domestic Notices. — Ireland. 297 


pitchers. It gives off suckers, but not freely. (Professor Graham in Jam. 
Jour., Sept. 1827.) 

The Mustard Tree of the Gospel, like the moss of Solomon, has given 
rise to various conjectures. Linnzeus thought it was the Phytolacca asiatica ; 
Captains Irby and Mangles, and Mr. Bankes, great travellers in Egypt and 
Syria, found a plant which they thought was the mustard tree alluded to. 
Mr. Don, however, has examined specimens of this tree brought home by 
Mr. Bankes, and he finds it to be the Salvadora pérsica, Lin. (Jam. Phil. 
Jour., March, 1827, p. 508.) 

Mode of preserving Cabbages during the Winter. — When they have 
arrived at full maturity pull them up with the roots, reverse their crowns, 
and cover them up, by digging a trench on each side, and laying the earth 
over them till nothing but the roots are seen above ground. In this situation 
they will require much less ground, and the exposure of the earth of the 
ridgelets thus formed will be an excellent winter fallow. Before burying 
them, of course, all decayed leaves must be removed. In this way I have 
secured my winter supply for several seasons, and one season most provi- 
dentially against an inroad of cattle, which in a few nights destroyed the 
whole winter stock of green vegetables, excepting a few dozen of the 
cabbages trenched in as above described. — W. M. Argyleshire, Jan. 28. 
1827. 

Mr. John Wallace, for some years past gardener to W. F. Riley, Esq., of 
Forest Hill, near Windsor, where he has formed the gardens and pleasure- 
grounds, has gone down to Murthly Castle, near Dunkeld, the seat of Sir 
- George Stewart, of Grandtully, Bart., to assist his father in remodelling the 
gardens and grounds there. What we mention the circumstance for is to 
notice the fact of Mr. Wallace being oneof the fourth generation of that name 
who have been successively gardeners to this family, Mr. John Wallace’s 
great grandfather having commenced his services nearly 160 years ago. He 
planted the first larch trees in that part of Scotland, and was a journeyman 
at the Duke of Atholl’s when the larch was treated as a green-house plant. 


IRELAND. 


Emigration Committee. — In our review of Mr. Slaney’s work on Rural 
Expenditure, we offered some remarks on emigration, as a proposed plan 
for relieving the country of its surplus inhabitants. It may therefore be 
expected_ that we should consider the voluminous book which the Emigra- 
tion Committee have put forth. This we shall do, but very briefly. 

The Committee, of course, think that their proposal to ship off a certain 
number of people is, at least, likely to be of service ; and some of the news- 
papers lean to the same favourable notion of the plan; others argue against 
it; afew laugh at it. We are, we must confess, surprised that this pro- 
posal could have been put forth, or approved of, by any man of common 
reflection or observation. Let us first suppose that a small number, three 
or four hundred thousand, are shipped off, by way of experiment : what is 
doubtful in the result must relate to Ireland, notjto the expatriated. How 
long, then, are we to wait, till we know the result? How are we to judge 
whether it is favourable or otherwise? Suppose we wait one year, and 
judge of the result by ascertaining then whether Ireland is still as pressed 
down with miserable people as it was before the shipment took place. Can 
there be a doubt, that at the end of the year, there will be at least as many 
inhabitants as before: we say at least, because, the demand for inhabitants 
having increased, the supply will also increase. 

And this is the great point : to illustrate it more impressively and clearly, 
let us suppose that the present population of Ireland is eight millions ; that 
fifty years ago it was six millions, and that two millions could be shipped off 


0 2 


298 Domestic Notices. — Ireland. 


immediately—all at once. All these are certainly most favourable supposi- 
tions for the emigration philosophers. Ireland is thus brought back to her 
population fifty years ago. It increased, then, gradually till it reached eight 
millions: can any reason be pointed ovt why it should not increase again ? 
Are there not many strong reasons why it would increase more rapidly —at a 
greater ratio—than it did fifty years since ? Ireland is now better cultivated, 
there is more demand for labour ; by the invention of steam boats, England 
and Scotland are virtually part of Ireland, and thus an immense addition 
is made to the market for Irish labourers: this last circumstance is a point 
of great moment, in considering the question. We have no doubt that the 
opening the market of England and Scotland to Irish labour will, of itself, 
increase Irish population at a greater ratio than it has hitherto done. 
And yet, as if this were not a sufficient aggravation of the evil, the Emigra- 
tion Committee proclaim to the Irish: “ Here is another vent for your 
surplus population; another market for your labour ;— such of you as 
hesitate about marrying, afraid that neither the market of your own coun~ 
try nor that of Great Britain will afford you the means of keeping a wife 
and children, marry now, and we will not only open ancther market, such 
as cannot be overstocked, but send you there, free of expense; and make 
you there proprietors of land, — masters, not servants.” 

Can it be doubted, then, that if this moment two millions were shipped 
off, they would be replaced much sooner than in fifty years, the period at 
which, by our supposition, the two millions were added, that raised the 
population to eight millions ? 

The Emigration Committee, therefore, purpose to hold out a bounty on 

marriage, in order to diminish population : truly, a most Irish proposal. 
_ There is one mode, which, if practicable, might do good: let us suppose 
that it were ascertained that six millions could be supported comfortably, — 
let the number be reduced to that, all at once. Then, having also ascer- 
tained what would be the annual increase of the six millions, let a number 
equal to that increase be annually shipped off. This measure, of course, 
would always keep down the population to the level of comfortable exist- 
ence. But, besides the impracticability of this measure, one of the data 
could not be accurately ascertained ; because an accurate knowledge of the 
annual rate of increase in Ireland hitherto, when there have been only Irish 
markets for labour, will not point out what will be the rate of increase, 
when the additional market of Great Britain, and that proposed by the 
Emigration Committee are thrown open. 

The principle, then, is bad; if acted on, it must encourage and increase 
the evil it isintended to diminish and check. And we repeat our surprise, 
how any man of reflection or observation,— any men who are either prac- 
tical or theoretical political economists, should have suggested such a plan, 
or agreed to it. But it is a hobby, and, like that of reaching the North 
Pole, will probably be carried into effect, till its worthlessness and expense 
are ascertained not to be the least objectionable parts of it. 

What plan, then, could we suggest? All agree that the evil, dreadful as 
it is, is yet in comparative feebleness ; and that, if not strangled in its in- 
fancy, it will soon reach a giant’s size and force, and strangle not merely 
national but individual prosperity. Irish labourers may be benefited, — 
their character as well as condition may be bettered by spreading over 
Britain ; but, on the other hand, the character and condition of British 
labourers must suffer, and we are afraid, in the contest, they will descend : 
much more than the former will rise. 

As to the remedy, we repeat, it must necessarily be gradual, in order to 
be effective. ‘leach the Irish to marry less : for this purpose, teach them 
to consider plenty of good food as indispensable as they now consider a 
precarious and scanty meal of potatoes and milk; decent, clean, and 
whole clothes as indispensable as they now regard dirty rags ; and a com- 


Horticultural Society and Garden. 229 


fortable cottage as indispensable as they now consider a mud hovel. Above 
all, teach them to think; that is, teach them to look to the future: give 
them more wishes and wants, more expectations and hopes, and those of a 
higher nature; then they will marry less, and then the population, dimi- 
nished in number, will obtain higher wages, and become more respectable 
and comfortable. What ought to be done, while the raising of the Irish 
character (for that must precede raising its condition) is carrying into effect, 
we do not pretend to say; but this we repeat, the plan of the Emigration 
Committee will end, if carried into execution, not in a permanent cure, 
not even in a partial and temporary cure, but in encouraging and aggravating 
the disease. 

Farming Society. — Why has not Loudon regarded the Farming Society 
of Ireland, a Society which, since its institution, has given an augmented 
impulse to our national industry? Why has he failed to ornament his 
pages with the brilliant and truly patriotic names allied to the interests of 
the country 2? When he descanted on absenteeism, why did he not pane- 
gyrise the brightest ornaments of our resident nobility, who are connected 
with the Farming Society of the country? Unpardonable and egregious 
omission! (Review of Loudon’s Encyc. of Agr. in the Irish Farmer's 
Journal of December 10. 1827.) 

The Farming Society. — Whilst nature is doing so much for Irish 
agriculture, man is doing nothing to advance the fundamental know- 
ledge of it as a science, or to stimulate its perfect practice as a national | 
benefit. The Parliament grant has been withdrawn, and, it is believed, 
justly, from the Farming Society. The Irish Farmer’s Journal has been dis- 
continued, with a debt due to the concern of upwards of 2,000/.; and a plan 
for establishing a small experimental farm in the vicinity of Dublin has also 
fallen dead-born. The fact is, there is no public spirit to raise and sustain 
any useful institution of the kind; and, when legislative aid established the 
Farming Society on a basis to all appearance lasting and firm, it was 
crumbled away in private jobbing and corrupt patronage, so unprincipled 
and notorious, that, although the writer of this is as staunch a friend to the 
agriculture of his country as any Irishman can be, he would nevertheless 
regard the renewal of the Parliament grant, under the former management, 
as a measure worse than useless, and as tending to abstract money from the 
public coffers, to form the means of aggrandising. those who perform no 
service in return. (Brit. Farm. Mag., Aug. 1827 ) 


Art. III. Horticultural Society and Garden. 


AuG. 7th.— Read. An account of a fumigating apparatus, by Mr. John 
Read of Bridge-House Place, Southwark. A cylindrical box is added to a 
pair of bellows ( fig. 63.), which may be used either for fumigating, or 


230 Horticultural Society and Garden. 


throwing out powdered lime or sulphur, on the principle of the machine 
described by our correspondent C. P. (p. 30.) 

Exhibited. A cucumber saved for seed, 25 in. long, and 10 in. in circum- 
ference. A model of Gregory’s patent self-supported ladder. Read’s fumi- 

ating bellows. A branch of the Hawthorndean Apple, with fruit on it. 

wenty sorts of summer apples. White Nice Grapes. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. A plant in flower of Linningia, 
new species from Rio Janeiro. Flowers of Russian ten-week and autumn 
Stocks, of Lilium supérbum, Asclépias tuberdsa, Coredpsis tinctoria, and of 
Double Dahlias. Fruit of Sugar-loaf Pippin, Morden Bloom Apple, Sweet 
Italian Melon, Smooth Valparaiso Melon, Brown Nutmeg Peach, Otaheite 
Pine-apple, King Pine-apple, Orange Apricot, Brussels Apricot, Shipley’s 
large Apricot and Breda Apricot. 

' Aug. 21.— Read. On the destruction of the A‘phis lanigera on apple 
trees, by Mr. Joseph Ashbany, gardener to Sir George Scudamore Stanhope, 
Bart. [The nurserymen find that a little oil effectually destroys this insect, 
and nothing can be more easily applied.] 

Exhibited. Specimens, wrought and unwrought, of the stem of a Tree 
Fern, sections of which are used by the Chinese as pencil holders. Flowers 
of Indian Pinks and Seedling Double Dahlias, from the garden of Lord 
Abergavenny, at Eridge Castle, near Tunbridge Wells. Flowersof Double 
Dahlias. Flowers of a variety of the Scarlet running Bean. Six sorts 
of Pears, and thirty-three sorts of Apples, of which the best was the 
‘Duchess of Oldenburg. Dunmore Moor Park Apricots. Roman Apricots. 
Moor Park Apricots, and a branch loaded with fruit of the Quarrenden 
Apple. Bourdine Peaches, Black Hamburgh and Leweston Syrian Grapes, 
and Queen and Black Jamaica Pine-apples. A Melon, unnamed, weighing 
15 lbs. Black Hamburgh Grapes. Seven sorts of Apples. Chelston Pippins. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Flowers of Double Dablias, Lilium 
supérbum, Asclépias tuberdsa, Coredépsis tinctoria, French and African Mari- 
golds. Autumn-flowering ten-week Stocks. Fruits of Mimm’s and Gis- 
borne’s Plums. ‘Turkey and Brussels Apricots, Seedling Nectarine, and 
twenty sorts of Apples. 

Sept. 4.— Read. Reports upon the plants which flowered in the garden 
of the Horticultural Society at Chiswick, between March, 1825, and March, 
1826, Part I. Hardy Plants, by Mr. John Lindley, F.L.S. &c. 

Lizhibited. Fruit of ’Carica papaya, a Fungus (Lycopérdon Bovista) 
from the garden of Mr. King of Chelsea, a Thermometer for a Pine Pit 
from Mr.Samuel Bregazzi of Derby ( fig.61. p.217.); Indian Pinks, Tanker- 
ville Pippins, and Apples unnamed ; Wheatear Carnations, a Seedling Plum, 
and ten sorts of Apples ; various Flowers, Washington Plums (p. 217.), and 
a Plum unnamed; Mulberries and Black Hamburgh Grapes; Bryanstone 
Gage Plum. 

Sept. 18.— Exhibited. A plant in flower of a seedling Primula sinénsis, 
with white flowers, different from the one raised by Joseph Delafield, Esq., 
of Kensington. Two varieties of Solanum, from the Brazils; a plant in 
flower of Geissoméria longiflora ; fifteen collections of Dahlias from as many 
private individuals, and collections of Dahlias from Messrs. Youngs of 
Epsom, Mr. Wood, Nurseryman, Oatlands, near Measfield, Sussex, and 
Mr. John Lee, F'.H.S., of Hammersmith, forming one of the most splendid 
assemblages of this flower ever brought together. Five sorts of Oranges, 
Lemons, and Citrons; White Spanish Onions, from Mr. Barnard Saun- 
ders, nurseryman, Jersey; two kinds of Rock Cantaloup Melons, Bruns- 
wick Figs, Teton de Venus Peaches, White Nice and Black St. Peter’s 
Grapes, Brown Beurré and Gansell’s Bergamotte Pears; Small Orange 
Nectarines, six sorts of Nectarines and six sorts of Peaches, Millet’s Mig- 
nonne Peach, and six sorts of Grapes; Raisin des Carmes Grapes, and 


Horticultural Society and Garden. 231 


Black Hamburgh Grapes; Pyrus Bollwilleridna, Dec., Pollutria, Lin., from 
Mr. Thomas Gibbs of the Brompton nursery, F.H.S.; Nancy Apple, and 
two collections of Apples. 

From the Garden of the Society. Flowers of China Asters, Autumn- 
flowering ten-week Stocks, and African and French Marigolds. Five sorts 
of Beets ; Early Vienna Kohl Rabi, and Blue Kohl Rabi. Fruits of Black 
Jamaica and White Providence Pine-apples, four sorts of Peaches, Pitmaston 
Orange Nectarines, Chasselas Précoce Grapes, and twenty sorts of Apples. 

Féte in the Chiswick Garden. — Sir, — Although a constant reader of the 
Gardener’s Magazine, and necessarily occasionally dissenting from the opi- 
nions delivered in it, yet I have seldom found those of its conductor of a 
character at variance with good sense and moderation. I was, therefore, 
not a little astonished to find him, in his last number, advocating one of the 
worst of the numerous bad measures which have been resorted to by the 
‘Council of the Horticultural Society, to bolster up its extravagance and 
bad management ; for I cannot, in justice, blame that Society for a measure 
in which the members were as little consulted as they are upon every other 
measure connected with the administration of its affairs. I refer to the 
féte, or afternoon’s cold collation, given in the garden at Chiswick, on the 
25d of July last. 

In descanting upon such a prostitution of the grounds of the Society, 
and the impropriety of the Society, as one of your correspondents justly 
remarks, becoming the pander to the sickly appetite for amusement of the 
fashionable world, I might enlarge upon the folly of the whole transaction ; 
or, admitting that it was proper, upon the illiberal, calculating, and paltry 
trading cunning in which it was conducted, and the true Venetian spirit with 
which the Council has since smothered every attempt at enquiry into the 
manner of treating the members of the Society on that occasion ; as well as 
the spiritless forbearance of the members, in submitting to be trampled upon 
by the Council. But this letter is addressed to you, not to the Horticultural 
Society, of which I am almost ashamed to acknowledge that Iam a member. 
Your conscience forces you to acknowledge that the deviation from pro- 
priety, in mixing up science, or, as you ought to kave said, what is meant 
to be science, and fashion, strikes at first sight ; and that the repetition of 
such fétes frequently in the course of the season, would be reprehensible. 
“ But what can be more harmless than such a féte once a year?” Now, 
Sir, answer me in the spirit of candour, on what grounds do you draw such a 
conclusion? If the garden, as the Council have assured the members, has 
not suffered, — if the receipts have more than paid the expenses, — and, if 
the Society, proh pudor / have pocketed a handsome surplus, for what can 
reprehension be incurred, if this féte should be given once a month instead 
of once ayear? Are you alarmed for its effects upon the morals of the 

fashionable visitors to the garden on these occasions? or for the example of 
dissipation which it displays to the gardeners ? or are you afraid that the re- 
peated remonstrances of the more sober and thinkingmembers of the Society, 
of those who are really in earnest and anxious to see the garden applied to 
the purposes for which it was originally intended, may become too loud to be 
drowned by the authoritative mandate of a vice-president, and lead to an open 
rebellion? Sir, if the thing would be bad were it repeated once a month, 
it cannot be good even if it be confined to once a year. I would ask you to 
say where, and at what period, has science ever thriven under the auspices of 
fashion ? or can there be any union more monstrous than that which has 
been occasionally attempted between them? The Horticultural Society 
and its garden were established for purposes over which fashion ought to 
have no control ; not only to supply the tables of the rich with the luxuries 
of the vegetable world from every quarter of the globe, but to add to the 
comforts of the poor, to naturalise in the garden of the cottager the less 


QO 4 


Zoe Horticultural Society and Garden. 


luxurious but more valuable productions of Flora and Pomona, and to 
teach them how to make the best use of the spade and the watering-pot. 
I would ask you whether these objects are more likely to be advanced by 
the admission of 2,800 well-dressed persons, to promenade and eat ices and 
fruit in the garden, than by giving a free access to the garden to every 
member of the Society, allowing him to send to it, without reserve, every 
person eager for information on horticulture, at all times, and having those 
constantly in attendance who are able to give the information which is 
sought for, as well as specimens of whatever may be necessary to aid the 
enquirer in his researches, as far as the benefit of horticulture is concerned ? 
Sir, I have been refused specimens from the garden of the Society, merely 
because they had not yet been described. I have been several years a mem- 
ber of the Society, and I know no more of its internal affairs than an utter 
stranger ; yet, I have overlooked these evils from a desire to see it advance, 
even in a moderate degree, the great national object for which it was insti- 
tuted ; but can I remain longer silent when, instead of this, I see an immense 
revenue expended to very little purpose, and hear that even this, great as 
it is, must be eked out by converting the garden into a place of fashionable 
amusement ? 

You seem, Sir, to think that there is as much propriety in the Society 
breakfasting, as you term it, once a year in this garden, as dining in a 
tavern. This argument, Sir, is more specious than solid. In the first 
place, it was not the Society that breakfasted in the garden, but every one 
who could pay a guinea, provided they could pass muster before the tribunal 
of the ladies patronesses, and were not the wives nor daughters of Fellows to 
whose names, in the list of the Society, no asterisk is added, — persons who 
have no particular regard for horticulture; who went to the gardens not to 
examine the advancement oi the art, or to hear of its prosperity, but 
merely to see and to be seen, and to obtain a subject for conversation in the 
fashionable coteries of the succeeding week. Sir, I am not fond of taverns 
nor of tavern-dinners, but I think one dinner of the Society, at the Freemason’s 
Tavern, even dull as it has hitherto been, worth five hundred of the fétes in 
the garden on the 23d of July. At the dinner, real gardeners are present ; 
scientific men, capable of appreciating the labours of the Society, are pre- 
sent; the dessert which is displayed is examined as to its value in a horti- 
cultural point of view, as well as eaten; the conversation it excites is con- 
nected with the objects of the Society, and the meeting together of two or 
three hundred individuals, actuated by the same useful motives, gives an 
impulse to the future exertions of the Society, which it never can obtain 
from twenty times the sum which has been thrown into its treasury by the 
late féte. Horticulturists, Sir, may be as social and as gallant as any other 
description of men, but there is a modus in rebus, and a time for every thing. 

You must forgive me, Sir, for differing from you, # goto, in your remark 
that “ it is obviously allowable and praiseworthy to call in the influence of 
fashion as an auxiliary support to useful institutions; and it will not be 
denied, we think, that large assemblages are calculated to generalise the 
manners, the feelings, and the taste of those who compose them.” Now, 
Sir, so far from believing that fashion is a useful auxiliary to such an insti- 
tution as the Horticultural Society, { think the Society has been degraded 
by receiving any aid from such a source. The objects of the Society, if 
steadily pursued, are sufficiently important to insure its permanence and 
prosperity, and to obtain funds adequate to its support, if its affairs be ad- 
ininistered with suitable economy. As to the effects of such fétes on the 
merals and happiness of society, there would be little difficulty in refuting 
that part of your argument; but I have already dilated more than I 
intended, and shall now conclude, in the hope that your zeal for such 
exhibitions in our gardens may be allowed to cool for want of any future 


Provincial Socteties. 2338 


opportunity to display it in defence of such a system. Wishing success to 
your very valuable Magazine, in objects more worthy of its pages than eulo- 
gies on the féte at Chiswick, believe me, yours, faithfully, —Philo-Olitorum. 
London, August 8. 1827. 


Art. 1V. Provincial Horticultural and Florists’ Societies. 


THE Yorkshire Horticultural Society held their first September Meeting at 
Kirkstall Hotel, on September 5th, and a more magnificent display of fruits 
and flowers we never witnessed. The Rev. J. A. Rhodes, M. A., was in the 
chair, and, in addressing the company, said that, since last he had the plea- 
sure of addressing them from that place, a meeting had been held in York, 
as was then announced to them, and he believed every expectation that 
could possibly have been formed of the advantage to be expected from that 
meeting had been fully realised. With respect to the present meeting, he 
said, the present display of fruit was the largest and handsomest ever placed 
upon any table in England, excepting perhaps London or Manchester, and 
he would proceed to distribute the prizes which the judges had awarded. 
This was done by the Rev. Chairman for all the different fruits grown in the 
open air or under glass, and for culinary vegetables, and dahlias and other 
flowers. 

The thanks of the Society were voted by the Council, to Mrs. Dealtry of 
Lofthouse Hall, and to the Right Hon. Lord Grantham, for beautiful speci- 
mens of the Psidium pomiferum, &c., to F. Maude, Esq., Hatfield Hall, for 
a number of exotic plants; to W. F. Paley, Esq., Squire Pastures, for a 
dish of apples grown last year, in very high preservation; to Mr. Barrett, 
nurseryman, Wakefield, for eighty-two sorts of apples, thirty-one sorts of 
pears, and fifteen sorts of hollyhocks. 

The following plants were exhibited from the gardens of Messrs. Back- 
house of York: a Fachsia gracilis, grown as a hardy plant, and which had 
stood two winters in the open air; a unique French marigold; a Mélope 
trifida ; a primrose of the Primula longiflora kind, and an Athanasia annua. 

From the garden of F’. Maude, Esq., a Catdlpa syringifolia in flower, and 
a Petunia nyctaginiflora, which was considered the rarest plant in the room. 

Messrs. Ponteys of Kirkheaton and Leeds exhibited specimens of the 
Fungeed(?) from Persia direct ; also the tree variety of mignonette, which, 
without forcing, will remain in a room beautifully in flower through the’ 
winter; the latter specimen, being considered a great acquisition to the 
sitting-room, attracted much attention from the company. (Hncyc. of Gard., 
§ 6487.) 

The ceremony of dispensing the prizes being gone through, the Chairman 
called the attention of the meeting to the table before them, covered as it 
was with a rich profusion of fruits. Amongst so many candidates, he 
observed, some must be unsuccessful, but though they lost the prizes, 
the meeting would concur with him in saying they deserved well of the 
Society, because the strife had been most severe, and most unusually 
oppressive. This will fully appear when we state that the fruits on 
the table consisted of six pines, six melons, eleven dishes of grapes, fif- 
teen dishes of peaches, seven of nectarines, three of apricots, twenty of 
plums, one of ripe Guava plums, fifty-two of apples, one dish containing 
eighty-two sorts, nineteen of pears, one dish containing thirty-one sorts, 
three of figs, two of cherries, three of gooseberries, two large gourds, four 
orange gourds, one dish of black American walnuts, a Patagonian cucum- 


234 Provincial Societies. 


ber, and a vegetable marrow. The Rev. Chairman concluded with a eulo- 
gium upon Horticulture, as being the precursor of Agriculture. 

The judges of fruit (excepting apples and pears) were, Mr. Appleby of 
Leeds, Mr. Hazlegrave of Wakefield, and Mr. Law of Roundhay ; of ap- 

ples and pears, Mr. Appleby of Wyndham, Mr. Barmer, gardener to T. W- 
Tottie, Esq., and J. Deuxberry, gardener to Abram Rhodes, Esq. ; of flowers, 
Mr. Bradbury of Cardigan Place, Burley, Mr. Richard Bland of Otley, and 
Mr. John Teal of Chapel-Allerton. 

It was then announced that the next meeting would be held on Wed- 
nesday, the 26th instant, in the Festival Concert Room, York, and soon 
afterwards the company separated. (Yorkshire Gazette, Sept. 8.) 

The Yorkshire Horticultural Society held its second September Meeting 
at York on September 26th, when the display of fruits and flowers, the for- 
mer in particular, exceeded any thing we ever before witnessed at a meet- 
ing of this description. Four tables were placed in the centre of the room, 
forming a square, in the centre of which, upon a stand, was a fine dwarf 
vine in pot, the Chasselas, with twenty-two bunches of grapes upon it, be- 
longing to John Smith, Esq., of Hungate On the table in front of the 
orchestra were four pines, twenty-seven dishes of grapes, some of them very 
fine ones, and four dishes of peaches. The table on the right contained 
five melons, twenty dishes of nectarines and peaches, a profusion of plums, 
apples, and pears, of various kinds ; a specimen of the Cactus Opuntia, or In- 
dian fig, from the Rev. T. C. R. Read of Sand Hutton; a dish of nectarine 
plums, very fine, also from Mr. Read; a dish of red currants, and another 
of white ones, with a plate of figs, from the garden of Mr. Thompson of 
Kirby Hall; the fruit of the passion flower, quinces, limes, oranges, &c. On 
the centre table there were thirty-six dishes of apples, with several rare ex- 
otics, amongst which, a splendid Strelitzia regina, from Major Yarburgh’s of 
Heslington ; a Crassula falcata, from Sir W. Milner’s ; an AmarYjllis, from Mr. 
Cattell’s, Bootham ; and a Phenix dactylifera, or date palm, from J‘Smith, 
Esq., were much admired; a splendid exotic bouquet, in a China vase, also 
from Mr. Smith’s, occupied the centre of this table. On the table upon 
the left were several very large gourds; one, sent by Mr. Sheriff Barber 
of Tong Hall, weighed upwards of five stone. The dahlias for prizes, to- 
gether with some remarkably fine China-Asters, from Mrs. Thompson’s gar- 
den, at Skelton ; and Messrs. Backhouse’s of York; and a beautiful exotic 
bouquet, also from Messrs. Backhouse’s, containing twenty-six species of 
plants, were placed upon this table. There were two tables behind the centre 
one. The first was covered with culinary vegetables, of which the celery 
was the finest we ever saw; the carrots, turnips, cucumbers, onions, and 
cabbages were also very fine specimens. In the centre of the next table, 
directly in front of the gallery, was placed a hardy bouquet from Messrs. 
Backhouse’s ; it was fifteen feet in height, and contained a great number of 
specimens: there were also ten exotics, in pots, placed here. To the right 
of these tables stood a superb specimen of the Ficus elastica, from Mr. 
Smith’s, and several other plants in pots: and on the opposite side were a 
hardy bouquet, very tastefully arranged, sent by Martin Mensford, gardener; 
a fine specimen of the coffee tree, from Mr. Smith’s; and a very fine rhubarb 
plant in pot. There were in all one hundred and fifty-three dishes of fruit ; 
twenty-eight different kinds of vegetables ; about forty specimens of exotics 
in pots; and a great variety of fruits. The orchestra remained decorated 
with laurel and flowers, as upon the occasion of the Duke of Wellington’s 
Visit. 

The doors were opened for the admission of company at two o’clock ; 
and shortly after, on the motion of the Rev. T. C. Read, seconded by Colo- 
nel Croft, Fras. Cholmeley, of Brandsby, Esq., was called to the Chair. 


Provincial Societies. 235 


_ The Chairman said, he begged leave to congratulate the company upon 
the splendid show which was now before them. He had not the advantage 
of being present at the last meeting; but he understood it was far exceeded 
by the present’ one, both as to the display of the fruits and flowers, and 
likewise in the attendance of ladies and gentlemen. There were also, he was 
informed, much more numerous contributions from the gardeners in the 
neighbourhood of York; and, though doubts were at first expressed, he 
hoped the Society might now be considered fully established. As Mr. Nicoll 
at the last meeting had explained the objects of the Society, it was not ne- 
cessary that he should say any thing on this subject. They all knew the 
advantage which horticulture derived from the Society in London ; and he 
hoped this would be no unworthy representative of it in Yorkshire. 

The prizes were then awarded for a great variety of fruits and flowers. 

There was no prize awarded for China-Asters, but the best in the room 
were from Mrs. Thomson’s garden, at Skelton. ‘The Chairman also begged 
leave to call attention to a very fine cockscomb, from the garden of the Hon. 
and Rev. Mr. Dawnay. The Society feels deeply indebted to Mr. Smith 
of this city, for the very handsome and rare plants he sent to decorate the 
room; and also to Messrs. Backhouse and Co., for their contributions in 
fruit and flowers. 

Mr. Smith, besides the plants we have mentioned, sent the following : — 
Hed¥chium coronarium, Acacia lopantha, Capsicum frutéscens, Xylophylla 
latifolia, Maranta bicolor, Ardisia excélsa, and Cypérus alternifolius. — 
Messrs Backhouse sent specimens of the following exotics, in pots : — Sal- 
via spléndens, Solanum laciniatum, Primula sinénsis alba, Lechenaitltia for- 
mosa, and Senécio élegans. A remarkably fine specimen of the Shark- 
tooth Aloe was sent by Mr. G. Earl of York. ‘ 

Amongst the company were noticed some of the first families of the city 
and neighbourhood, who seemed much pleased with the proceedings of the 
day; and we have no doubt they will look forward to the next meeting, 
which will take place early in the spring, with great interest. Mr. Slater 
of Yeadon again attended with his netting for the protection of fruit trees. 
Specimens of it were displayed in front of the orchestra, and it seemed to 
be much admired. (Yorkshire Gazette, Sept. 29.) 

The Botanical and Horticultural Society for Durham, Northumberland, and 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne held a meeting in Newcastle on June 29th, when 
four gold, five silver medals, and one of bronze were awarded to different 
gardeners. A silver medal was awarded to Mr. James Tindal, gardener, 
Beaufront, for an essay on the culture of the vine. ‘The meeting was as 
usual most respectably and numerously attended, and the tables covered 
with a profusion of flowers and fruits in high perfection. ‘The interest 
evinced by the visitors evidently increases with the increasing beauty and 
excellence of these charming exhibitions. (Newcastle Cour., July.) ; 

At Hexham a meeting of the above Society was held on the 26th of 
June, for the convenience of members residing in that neighbourhood, when 
various prizes were awarded. The flowers and fruits, especially the roses 
and prize cherries and strawberries, were most beautiful, and of first rate 
quality. Several very beautiful seedling pinks, and some seedling roses, 
were exhibited by Mr. James Scott of Sandoe, many of them equal to some 
of our named flowers. This exhibition far exceeded the expectations of 
the warmest friends of the institution, and no doubt, ere long, the shows 
that may be appointed to be held at Hexham will rival the splendid ex- 
hibitions of the Society at Newcastle; and it must be highly gratifying to 
the Committee to find that their efforts to encourage the practice of horti- 
culture in that neighbourhood have been so well seconded by the loyers of 
that delightful pursuit, as the above very fine exhibition, and the accession 
of new members, amply testified. 


236 Provincial Societies. 


At Alnwick a meeting of this Society is to be held in September. (Mew- 
castle Courier, July 6.) 

The Anniversary Meeting of this Society was held at Newcastle on August 
11th, when the Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of Durham was unanimously 
chosen patron of the Society for the county of Durham, vice the late Bishop 
of Durham, deceased, and Matthew Bell, Esq. M. P., was elected president 
for the ensuing year. The prize medals were then delivered to the suc- 
cessful competitors during the past year; and afterwards the members and 
visitors sat down to a sumptuous dinner. The table was handsomely deco- 
rated with flowers, and the dessert was superb, consisting of pines, melons, 
grapes, peaches, and all the fruits of the season, in profusion, from tke gar- 
dens of gentlemen belonging to the Society. (Newcastle Cour., Aug. 18.) 

A Meeting of the Botanical and Horticultural Society was held at New- 
castle on September 7th, when the Society’s silver medals were awarded to 
different gardeners. The exhibition of fruits, consisting of seventy dishes, 
was extremely beautiful, and all of very superior quality; the flowers, 
especially the dahlias, which excited universal admiration, were also very 
fine. The exhibition, after the prizes had been determined, was honoured 
by the presence of a very large concourse of ladies and gentlemen of the 
first respectability. (Newcastle Courier, Sept. 15.) 

Preston Horticultural Society.— The flower show on August Ist was, we 
are most happy to say, as fully and as fashionably attended as any we have 
before witnessed. The preceding meetings for the season have in every 
instance, we believe, taken place on days of incessant rain; but on this 
occasion the weather was fortunately most propitious, and the consequence 
was a very considerable assemblage of the neighbouring gentry, in addition 
to the very many respectable families residing in the town, who give their 
patronage and support to this most useful Society. As the meeting of 
Wednesday will probably be the last for the year, it gave us much pleasure 
to see the labours of the Committee winding up with so much satisfaction 
both to themselves and to the public. The display of carnations was 
beautiful, whilst of green-house and other plants there was exhibited an 
admirable collection, amongst which by far the most conspicuous was a mag- 
nificent Campanula pyramidalis, from the garden of J. Swainson, Esq., and 
measuring no less than seven feet two inches in height from the surface of 
the earth. There was fruit also in abundance, and of the very finest qua- 
lity. The most attractive object in this department was the remarkably fine 
‘pine-apple (weighing upwards of six pounds) sent from the garden of Le 
Gendre N. Starkie, Esq. M. P., at Huntroyd, and raised by Mr. Morrell, 
that gentleman’s gardener. Prizes were given for the following carnations 
and hardy plants : — 

Carnations. Scarlet Bizards: Rising Sun, Triumphant, Lord Bagot, 
Achilles, Optimus Seedling, Eclipse Seedling. Crimson Bizards : Rainbow, 
King Alfred, Duke of Kent, Duke of Devonshire, Summit of Perfection, 
Hero of the Nile Seedling. Purple Flakes: Princess Charlotte, Major Cart- 
wright, La Belle Alliance, Bellerophon Seedling, Lord Byron. Scarlet 
Flakes: Salamander, Atlas Seedling, Mount Vesuvius Seedling, Mount 
Etna Seedling, Hobhouse. Rose Flakes: Lady Hood, Duchess of Devon- 
shire, Lord Essex, Parnassus Seedling, Earl Moira. 

Picotees. Purple: Cleopatra, Emma, Lady Milton, Lady Chatham, 
Bob’s Nought. Scarlet: Magnificent, Will Stukely, Childwall Beauty, 
Phyllis, Baldwin’s Seedling. " 

Plants. Green-house: Pancratium mexicanum, Crassula coccinea, Tecoma 
grandiflora, Hlichrysum proliferum, Cléthra arborea. Hardy: Magnolia 
grandiflora ferruginea, Campanula pyramidalis, Rosa indica ochroleuca, 
(£nothera macrocarpon, Potentilla hirta, Spigélia marilandica, Erica vul- 
garis alba. ZH 


Provincial Societies. 237 


Prizes were also given for Mr. Morrell’s pine-apple, and for various fruits 
and culinary vegetables. (Preston Pilot, Aug. 4.) 

Horticultural Societies at Northampton. — Dear Sir, — Having been fa- 
voured with a sight of your valuable Magazine, I was much gratified with 
the accounts given of the various horticultural meetings. I feel much 
pleasure in sending you the enclosed account of the four different Societies 
held in this town, the Original, the Royal, the Loyal, and the Florists’ Hor- 
ticultural Societies; and I shall at all times be happy to do all in my 
power to aid your endeavours in publishing so useful a work. It is truly 
gratifying to me to know that horticulture is making such rapid strides all 
over the world, though I consider it is still in its mfancy. I have studiously 
practised the art of cultivating and propagating the beauties of nature for 
near forty years, and I feel assured the more zealously I trace the foot- 
steps of Flora, the more I shall enjoy of her rich store; and I am fully 
persuaded that by perseverance in sowing seeds of the choicest flowers, 
carnations in particular, such an infinite variety of new sorts will appear, 
that in fifty years hence those exquisite beauties, which now give us so much 
pleasure, will be scarcely considered worthy a place in our common bor- 
ders; at least, many kinds which were thought beautiful when I began to 
grow them, are now considered as worth nothing. I would advise my bro- 
ther florists, of whom I have the pleasure to be acquainted with many in 
various parts of England, to pay a little more attention to neatness and 
uniformity in their gardens; for, where that is neglected, the choicest col- 
Jections of any kind of plants or flowers lose much of their splendour. I 
remain, dear Sir, yours, &c.— P. Cornfield. 

The Original Horticultural Society of Northampton founded by Mr. Corn- 
field, held their thirty-first anniversary, August 2d, when numerous prizes 
were given away for flowers and fruits. The following carnations and 
picotees obtained prizes : — 

Carnations. Scarlet Bizards: Thompson’s Squire Cartwright, Glover’s 
Regulator, Yeomanson’s Triumphant, Smalley’s Foxhunter, Duke of 
Grafton. Crimson Bizards: Cartwright’s Rainbow, Davy’s Rainbow, 
Messenger‘s Duke of Wellington, Gregory’s King Alfred, Plummer’s 
Lord Denbigh, Yeomanson’s Magnificent, Mr. Canning Seedling, Rose 
Flakes: Fletcher’s Duchess of Devonshire, Messenger’s Miss Gunning, 
Cornfield’s My Laddy O!, Rivers’s Incomparable, Miss.Bouverie Seedling. 
Scarlet Flakes : Pierson’s Madam Mara, Thornicroft’s Blucher, Sir R. Gun- 
ning, Lord Althorp Seedling. Purple Flakes: Hall’s Major Cartwright, 
Kenny’s Excellent, ° J. Allen’s Earl Spencer, Adwin’s Princess Royal, 
Wright’s Duchess of Manchester, Wood’s Commander-in-Chief, Mr. Peel 
Seedling. ‘ 

Picotees. Red: Martin’s Miss Bouverie, Spratt’s Earl of Effingham, 
Alderman Brown Seedling. Purple: Mason’s General Mina, Martin’s Mrs. 
H. Gunning, Bailey’s Beauty, Messenger’s Favourite Seedling. 

The Northampton Royal Horticultural Society, Mr. J. Freeman, secre- 
tary, held their seventh Anniversary on July 31st, and awarded prizes for 
carnations, picotees, and gooseberries : — 

Carnations. Scarlet Bizards: Davy’s Sovereign, Yeomanson’s 'Trium- 
phant, Gunning where he is Seedling. Crimson Bizards: Cartwright’s 
Rainbow, Duke of Wellington, General Hill. Scarlet Flakes: Blucher, 
Messenger’s Setting Sun, Rising Sun Seedling. Purple Flakes: Kenny’s 
Excellent, Adwin’s Princess Royal, Boyle’s Lord Ashbrook, Hon. Mrs. Perry 
Seedling. Rose Flakes : Duchess of Devonshire, Strong’s Princess Augusta, 
Hon. Mrs, Canning Seedling. 

Picotees. Red: Earl of Effingham. Purple: Bailey’s Beauty, Lady 
Compton, Mrs. H. Gunning. 


238 Provincial Societies. 


Gooseberrics. Red: Top Sawyer, 15 dwts. 233 grs.; Crown Bob, 15 dwts. 
6h ers. Yellow: Golden Chain, 13 dwts. 63 grs.; Viper, 10 dwts. 8 grs. 
Green: Ocean, 14 dwts. 9 grs.; Laurel, 10 dwts. 14 ers. White: Queen 
Anne, 16 dwts. 10 grs.; Huntingdonshire Lass, 15 dwts. 6 grs.; Whitesmith, 
12 dwts. 17 ers. 

_ For cucumbers, currants, and Hamburgh heart cherries, prizes were also 
given. 

The Loyal Northampton Horticultural Society held their first Anniversary 
Meeting at Northampton on July 26th, Sir Robert Henry Gunning, Bart., 
pawenl president, in the chair; the secretary, Mr. J. P. M. Chambers. 

rizes were given for carnations, picotees, cloves, gooseberries, currants, and 
cucumbers. 

The Bizards of the first class were: Plummer’s Lord Moira, Thompson’s 
George the Fourth, Mason’s Lord Compton, Smalley’s Foxhunter, Yeoman- 
son’s Triumphant. 

The Picotees of the first class were: Wood’s Harmony, Mason’s Neat 
and Clean, Spratt’s Earl of Effingham, Cornfield’s Lady Miller, Spratt’s Karl 
of Effingham, Maberly No More Seedling. 

The Red Gooseberries of the first class were: Rough Robin, 16 dwts. 
19 grs.; Sportsman, 16,dwts. 9 grs. ; Roaring Lion, 14 dwts. 18 grs.; Crown 
Bob, 14 dwts. 16 grs. 

The Annual Florists’ Feast of Northampton was held August 6th, and 
prizes were adjudged for the following flowers : — 

Carnations. Scarlet Bizards: Cartwright’s British Hero, Smalley’s Fox- 
hunter, Glover’s Stourbridge Regulator, Yeomanson’s Triumphant, Thomp- 
son’s Cartwright. Crimson Bizards: Lord Denbigh, Thompson’s Sir John 
Miller, Messenger’s Duke of Wellington, North’s King Agrippa, Mason’s 
George the Fourth. Scarlet Flakes: Blucher, Madam Mara. Purple 
Flakes: Messenger’s Alderman Brown, Duchess of Manchester. Rose 
Fakes: Duchess of Devonshire. 

Picotees. Martin’s Incomparable, Earl of Effingham, Mrs. H. Gunning, 
Bailey’s Beauty. 

Seedlings. Scarlet Bizard: Commander in Chief. Crimson Bizard : Van 
Trump. Scarlet Flake: Isabella. Purple Flake: Mr. Braham. Rose 
Flake: Roaring Lion. Picotee: Mr. Denman. 

Gooseberries. The heaviest gooseberry was the Crown Bob, which weighed 
15 dwts. 15 ers. 

Mr. Cornfield is a fancy fiorist and dealer in florist’s flowers at Nor- 
thampton. Having heard much of him for several years past, and being 
the other day at Northampton on business, I called on Mr. Cornfield, and, 
on my first entrance into his garden, was much struck with the novel and 
tasteful manner which he has in displaying to the best advantage his fine 
collection of carnations, picotees, pinks, and auriculas, the whole in per- 
fect health and vigour, and the layers of the carnations finely rooted. I 
requested him to send you some particulars of his mode of treating 
his plants, as his flowers are allowed to be remarkably fine, and he 
has promised to comply with my request. He also showed me the 
beautiful new stage for showing the prize flowers at the annual show of 
flowers and fruits at Northampton; it is placed in the superb Assembly 
Rooms at the George Inn, and is a beautiful model for the imitation of 
other florists’ societies to adopt for the exhibition of their flowers. The 
stage, with all its appendages and emblematical figures of floriculture and 
horticulture, was made under the immediate direction of Mr. Cornfield. I 
have requested him to send you a description of it, as it is certainly the 
most complete thing of the kind in England, and does much credit to the 
taste of one to whom the sons and daughters of Flora are much indebted, 
for many improvements in the art of showing the beauties of nature to the 


Provincial Societies. 239 


best advantage. I am, Sir, &c.— James Brown. Stowe Gardens, Bucking- 
fam, Sept. 26. 1827. 

The Richmond Florists’ and Horticultural Society held their Annual Meet- 
ing at Richmond, on the 9th August, when prizes were awarded for the 
following articles : —~ 

Carnations. Scarlet Bizards: Pugh’s Lord Nelson, Brough’s Sparkler, 
Wild’s Surpasses Perfection, Wood’s Lord Nelson, Dr. Syntax, Col. Bailey. 
Crimson Bizards: Prince Leopold, Gregory’s Alfred, Waterhouse’s Rising 
Sun, Cope’s Suwarrow. Scarlet Flakes: Pearson’s Rising Sun, Madam 
Mara, Wood’s Comet, Thornicroft’s Blucher. Purple Flakes: Wright’s 
Duchess of Manchester, Hufton’s Noble, Duchess of Gloster, Kenny’s 
Excellent, James’s Queen, Hardwin’s Princess Royal. Rose Makes: Clege’s 
Smiling Beauty, Duchess of Devonshire, Pearson’s Earl Moira, Metcalf’s 
Miss Lander, Hardman’s Lady Wellington, Lacey’s Princess of Wales. 

Picotees. Scarlet : Pyke’s Nonpareil, Spratt’s Earl of Effingham, Child- 
wall Beauty, Will Stukeley, Kenny’s Incomparable. Purple: Hufton’s 
Duke of Norfolk, Beauty of Bailey, Mason’s Duke of Wellington, Lee’s 
Col. Stanton. 

Gooseberries. Red: Sir John, 22 dwts. 10 gr.; Roaring Lion, 22 dwts. 
1 gr.; Huntsman, 21 dwts. 21 grs. Yellow: Gunner, 21 dwts. 10 grs.; Vi- 
per, 16 dwts. 5grs. Green: Independent, 16 dwts. 5 grs.; Ocean, 15 dwts. 
8 grs. White: Thrasher, 18 dwts. 11 grs.; Wellington’s Glory, 14 dwts. 
15 grs.; Cheshire Lass, 15 dwts. 5 ers. 

Prizes were also given for grapes, nectarines, peaches, apricots, cherries, 
strawberries, and pears. — J. Ward. Richmond, Yorkshire, Aug. 10. 

The Evesham Horticultural Society held a Meeting on September the 14th, 
which was very abundantly supplied with specimens of the most interesting 
objects under floricultural and horticultural cultivation, and prizes were 
awarded for dahlias, cockscombs, damson plums, peas, carrots, and onions. 

Two books on botany (?) presented by the President were awarded, the 
one to Mr. Fulton, for the best show of flowers, and the other to Mr. Hay- 
ward, for culinary vegetables. The President exhibited the Wellington Ap- 
ple, the Karly Knob-rooted Celery, and a variety of potato, received from 
Holland in May last. An unnamed seedling apple and nectarine, melons, 
and several varieties of vegetable marrows and ornamental gourds were 
also exhibited; and the President read a detail of those improvements in 
horticulture, recommended by the Horticultural Society of London, which 
he thought most applicable to the practice of cultivation in the neighbour- 
hood. (Worcester Herald, Sept. 22.) 

Hereford Horticultural Society, May 15.—I think it will be gratifying 
to you to hear that our Fruit and Flower Society, considering it 
commenced only last year, advances prosperously. The distinguished 
President of the London Horticultural Society and his son, with nearly all 
the nobility and gentry of this county and city, patronise it, but its formation 
and subsequent success is mainly attributable to the indefatigable exertions 
of the hon. secretary, Richard Parkinson, Esq., and his lady. — William 
Godsall. 

The Hereford Horticultural Society held their last Meeting for the pre- 
sent year on September 4th. It was numerously attended, and exhibited 
a most abundant and rich display of fruit and flowers, far surpassing that of 
~ the corresponding season last year: indeed, such was the abundance of fruit, 
that by ten o’clock the plates of the Society were all in requisition, and 
many of the subscribers in the immediate neighbourhood kindly supplied 
others to the amount of several dozens. T. A. Knight, Esq., President of 
the London Horticultural Society, sent many very fine specimens of Belgic 
pears, which were greatly admired. That gentleman honoured the commit- 


240 Covent Garden Market. 


tee-room with his presence early in the day, but a pre-engagement prevented 
his remaining in town till the exhibition commenced, he however expressed 
his delight at witnessing the quantity and quality of the fruit. Amongst 
pears, the Belgic, Colmar, Crassane, Bergamotte, Beurrée, with their varieties, 
shone conspicuously, as did also the apples, among which were many new 
varieties; and, as to the dahlias, they were profusely abundant and magnifi- 
cent in the extreme, including all the best new ones. At the top of the prize- 
stand was a most splendid plant of Salvia spléndens, upwards of seven feet 
high, nearly covered with its intensely vivid scarlet blossoms, surrounded by 
more humble competitors but equally rare ; viz.a new scarlet-fruited Sola- 
num Melongéna, Trevirana coccinea, Créwea saligna, with many others of 
great rarity. The vegetables were also remarkably fine, particularly a 
variety of white beet, blanched, which attracted general attention. Prizes 
were awarded for the following articles :— 

Apples. Early Dessert: Grange Apple, Red Quarrenden. Late Des- 
sert: Ribstone Pippin, Green Nonpareil, Garnons Apple. Culinary: Blen- 
heim Orange, King of the Pippins. Cider: Fox Whelp, Cowern Red, 
Norman. 

Pears. Early Dessert: Gansel’s Bergamotte, Poir du Prince. Late 
Dessert: Brown Beurrée, Crassane, Chaumontelle. Perry: Seedling, Old 
Field, Bishopstone. 

Plums. Coe’s Golden Drop, Imperatrice. 

Grapes. Black Ksperione, Royal Muscadine. 

Dahlias. Light: Speciosa, Quilled Lilac Seedling. Dark: Beauté 
Supreme, Velvet Cushion. 

Plants. Green-house : Salvia spléndens, Encomis punctata. Stove: Scarlet 
Solanum Melongéna (Hereford Journal, Oct. 10.). 


Art. V. Covent Garden Market. 


Tue supply of fruit and vegetables has been, and continues to be, abun- 
dant. From the favourable summer, various fruits made their appearance 
rather sooner than usual, and, though in high perfection, it is appre- 
hended that they, apples in particular, will not keep well. Pine-apples, 
both home-grown and foreign, never were more plentiful, selling so low 
as 3s. 6d. per pound; but the glut being now over, they have advanced to 
gs. and 10s. Melons and wall fruit have been equally plentiful and cheap. 
In addition to the home-grown grapes, considerable quantities are weekly 
received from Holland and the Netherlands of superior quality, which are 
selling at the low price of from 1s. 6d. to 1s. 9d. per pound. Apples and 
inferior pears sold from 3s. to 4s. per bushel wholesale; and filberts, wal- 
nuts, &c., are poured in even above the demand. — J. G. Oct. 20. , 


Art. VI. Priced List of Florist’s Flowers. 


Tue following list has been sent us by Mr. Hogg of Paddington, as con- 
taining some of the finest prize or show flowers, with the prices for which 
they may be obtained in the neighbourhood of London. Mr. Hogg’s priced 
catalogue, in one sheet, to be sent as a single letter, may be had of Messrs, 
Longman and Co., price 6d. 


Priced List of Florist’s Flowers. 


' Green-edged. 


Archer’s Champion _ - 
Ashworth’s Newton Hero 
Barlow’s King - 
Bearless’s Superb - 
Booth’s Freedom - 
Buckley’s Jolly Tar = - 
Clough’s Do-little = 
Clough’s Bagslate Hero 
Cockup’s Eclipse - 
Clegg’s Black and Green 
Clege’s Lancashire Lad 
Chilcott’s King - 
Coldham’s Blucher — - 
Egerton’s Lord Combermere 
Gorton’s Champion - 
Hedge’s Britannia - 
Howard’s Lord Nelson 
Lee’s Colonel Taylor 
Lawrie’s Glory - 
Miller’s William Pitt 
Mather’s Brilliant = - 
Moore’s Jubilee = 
Metcalf’s Lancashire Hero 
Pollit’s Highland Boy 
Pollit’s Ruler of England 
Page’s Champion - 
Page’s Oldenburgh_ - 
Page’s Waterloo - 
Partington’s Trafalgar 
Pearson’s Badajoz —- 
Robinson’s Queen Caroline 
Stretch’s Alexander 
Smith’s Waterloo - 
Smith’s Alexander - 
Tomlinson’s Commander 
Wood's Lord Lascelles 
Warris’s Blucher 
Waterhouse’s Sir I. Newton 
Wild’s Colonel Anson - 
Yates’s Lord Collingwood - 


Grey-edged. 

Ashworth’s Rule-all - = 
Ackerley’s Alpine Shepherdess 
Barlow’s Morning Star - 
Barlow’s Lancashire Lad 
Butterworth’s Lord Hood - 
Chilcott’s Brilliant = - 
Coxe’s British Hero - 
Dean’s Regulator - 
Grimes’s Privateer - 
Hey’s Lovely Ann - 

Von. III, — No. 10. 


AURICULAS. 
Be ah 
Kenyon’s Ringleader - 
5 o Pearson’s Liberty - - 
10 0 Pendleton’s Smiling Violet - 
5 © Rider’s Waterloo ” = 
4 0 »ykes’s Complete Flower - 
20 09  impson’s Marquis of Granby 
4 Q iater’s Cheshire Hero - 
10 9 Lhompson’s Bang-up - - 
10 © Jhompson’s Revenge - 
4 9 Laylor’sPloughboy -  - 
7 6 Warris’s Union = = 
10 © Waterhouse’s Sir Walter 
J) Fawkes - =. - 
ae White-edged. 
4 © Bruce’s Lord Chief Justice - 
20 © Crompton’s Admiral Gar- 
7 0 dener - - = 
60 © Hughes’s Pillar of Beauty - 
15 0 Leigh’s Venus - - 
10 © Popplewell’s Conqueror = 
10 © Pott’s Regulator : = 
5 0 Scholes’s Mrs. Clarke = 
53 © Taylor’s Glory = - 
4 © Taylor’s Incomparable - 
10 © Taylor’s Princess Royal - 
10 6 Taylor’s Favourite - —- 
7 © Wild’s Cottage Girl - 
15 ©0 Wild’s Black and Clear - 
5) © 4 
5 O Plain, or Self-coloured. 
10 O Ancient Lady - - 
5 O Bury’s Lord Primate - 
15 0 Bury’s Lord Lee - - 
10 O Cardinal Fleury - - 
10 O Flora’s Flag - - - 
5 0 Gorton’s Stadtholder - 
5 O Redman’s Metropolitan - 
10 O Scholes’s Ned Lud - = 
5 O Whittaker’s True Blue - 
5 0 Wild’s Blue Crystal - 
Shaded Alpines. 
4 0 Alderman - - - 
5 O Beauty ofthe Alps - - 
5 O Beauty of England - = - 
7 6 Bishop of London - - 
4 0 Howe's Venus - - 
4 0 King of the Alps - = 
5 0 Moses f= - - 
4 0 Pharaoh 5 - - 
4 0 Royal George - - 
5 O Vesuvius - - - 
‘ R 


to 
TIANTAIAAAS AY 


241 


= 
lo) 


On 


_— 
BaAAAWAAATA TEA 


KRawd1aagib AAR a 


Paar aharr APA 


aoecoocecqcodcos. 


>) 


) 


SCeooannocgoagcgos eeooocoogoooooggose 


eoooooooeooco 


242 Ents for Experiments. 


PoLyANTHUSES, at 2s. 6d. each, with the exception of those to which 
other prices are affixed. 


Billington’s Beauty of Over. Mill’s Highland Mary. 

Buck’s Marquis of Anglesea, 20s. Massey’s Venus. 

Buck’s Traveller. Nicholson’s Gold-lace. 
Brown’s King. Nicholson’s Bang-Europe, 20s. 
Cox’s Regent. Park’s Lord Nelson. 

Collier’s Princess Royal, 10s. Pearson’s Alexander, 7s. 6d. 
Crownshaw’s Invincible, 15s. Pearson’s Competitor, 5s. 
Cartwright’s True Briton. _ Pearson’s Commander. 
Cutler’s Duke of York. Stead’s Telegraph. 

Fletcher’s Defiance. Stead’s Supreme. ‘ 
Fletcher’s Lord Hill. Thompson’s Lord Nelson. 
Fillingham’s Tantararara. Thorp’s Golden Ball. 
Hattersley’s Invincible. Turner’s Emperor Bonaparte. 
Heap’s Smiler. Turner’s Princess Charlotte. 
Harley’s Defiance. Timmis’s Defiance. 

Hobson’s Victorious. Waterhouse’s Bishop of York. 
Lee’s Sly Boys, 5s. Washington’s Black Boy. 
Lumbard’s Highlander, 5s. Willat’s Beauty of Coventry. 


Martin’s Prince Henry. 


Art. VII. Hints for Experiments. 


THE Application of Steam to Agriculture has hitherto been confined to 
putting in motion some thrashing machines : but, as steam will probably in 
ashort time be applied to the dragging of heavy waggons on the public 
roads, the succeeding step will not unlikely be its adaptation to the imple- 
ments of aration. 

The advantages of ploughing and harrowing by steam promise to be con- 
siderable in every country, but especially in an uncertain climate. The soil 
can only be stirred with advantage when in a moderately dry state, and in 
dry weather. To enable a large farmer to accomplish this, he must keep 
a considerable stock of horses and men, which in unfavourable weather 
cannot be employed, but must be fed and lodged. A steam plough, guided 
by one man, which could do the work of six pair of horses and six men, 
would cost nothing but during the hours it was in action: there would, 
therefore, be no temptation on the part of the farmer to use it in bad 
weather. Any agricultural implement drawn by horses can only move at 
a certain rate per hour; but a steam plough or harrow might be made to 
move at any rate of rapidity, and, at all events, at three times the rate of a 
plough and pair. The advantage of such a rapid mode of stirring the soil 
in a variable season in any country, and in rapid climates such as those 
of northern and tropical countries, will be appreciated by the agriculturist. 
In short, the power of steam would give the cultivator an unlimited com- 
mand of labour at the moments favourable to labouring ; and fifty acres a 
day might be ploughed with one machine and one man, as easily as they 
are now ploughed by fifty days’ work of one plough, or ten days’ work of 
five ploughs. ~ 

The sort of implement best adapted for stirring the soil by the power of 
steam is the next idea that presents itself. Every cultivator,’we think, will 
agree that it must be some implement of the grubber kind (Encyc. of Agr., 
§ 2553.), and by far the best of these is what is called Finlayson’s Harrow. 
(Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 250. fig. 66.) This implement may be enlarged so 
as to cover any breadth, and regulated so as to go to any depth; and the 


EXints for Experiments. 243 


latter object is effected to such a nicety, that it has been used on the same 
farm to harrow in grass seeds, and to grub or stir the soil to the depth of 
twelve inches. Those who have not seen an implement of the grubber kind 
at work may question its fitness as a substitute for the plough ; but, where 
the soil is dry.and the grubber can be dragged across it in different direc- 
tions, it will not only equal but far surpass the plough in every case in which 
littery manure is not to be ploughed in, or a tough sward to be turned over. 
The effectual manner in which this implement mixes the top and bottom of 
the soil together, and breaks all the parts of the soil to pieces, was com- 
pletely shown last year in that part of Hyde Park submitted to its 
operations under the direction of Mr. Shedden, the surveyor. We under- 
stand the whole of the Park is to undergo the same process next year, 
and we should certainly like to see the power of steam tried instead of 
horses. 

But how is manure to be ploughed in, ora turf sward to be turned over, 
by the power of steam? Instead of the prongs of Finlayson’s harrow, 
substitute the self-cleaning coulters and shares of his self-cleaning plough 
( fig. 64.), regulated as to depth by wheels. Any number of these will work 


together without a holder, just as well as any number of prongs. Nothing 
can be easier than to construct a steam plough with the shares and mould 
boards contrived so as to shift and adjust, for the purpose of forming drills 
or ridgelets, and splitting them down ; and the harrow, with a rake attached, 
and some other easy contrivances, and two attendants, might be made to 
unearth a field of potatoes, collect them, and deliver them into baskets or 
sacks, (the same, as to stones or weeds,) which, as filled, might be put into 
carts, at the rate of fifty acres a day, or a much greater number, with as 
much ease as the same machine would afterwards prepare the soil for wheat, 
and harrow in the seed. 

It must always be recollected, in favour of steam ploughs and harrows, 
that no holder whatever will be required, and that an engine of twenty 
ploughs’ power would be guided by one man just as easily as one of half 
that capacity. 

The power of selecting, for the performance of all the principal plough- 
ings and harrowings of the largest farm, weather when the soil was in the 
fittest state for being laboured, and of executing these labours at any time 
in two or three days, must also be taken into account. Add the saving of 
horse food, of risk from diseases and death, of horse lodging, of men as 
ploughmen and carters, and of capital ; because a steam-engine of twenty- 
horses’ power, adapted to impel ploughs, harrows, waggons, sowing, mowing, 
and reaping machines, would certainly cost less than twenty horses and 
their harness. One or two pairs of horses might, under such an arrange- 
ment, be all that was necessary on even the largest farm. 


RE 


244 Hints for Experiments. 


If small farmers could not afford to purchase steam ploughs or steam 
harrows, a class of men would arise, after a trial was made and their value 
determined, who would possess such machines, and work them for the farm- 
ers for hire. There would be {nothing in such an arrangement more than 
a new application of the principle of the division of labour. 

Possibly the progress of civilisation, refinement, and wealth, in con- 
sequence of the unrestricted commercial intercourse of all countries, and 
the universal diffusion of knowledge among all ranks, may ultimately tend 
to what may be called a characteristic appropriation of the earth’s surface ; 
that is, to the employment of varied and agreeable surfaces, in favourable 
climates, as human residences; and of flat, dull, mountainous, or unhealthy 
surfaces for the growth of corn, timber, or fuel, and the breeding of live 
stock. The power of steam would cultivate the flat surfaces, and convey their 
produce from one end of a kingdom to another as easily and rapidly as 
men and horses now convey the preduce through a parish; and, as Dr. 
Arnott observes, the house and grounds of a citizen of London, now twenty 
miles from town, would, by the rapidity of conveyance, become in effect 
within two miles. But, if such a result, in regard to the world generally, is 
very remote, it will hardly be denied that it is a very possible case in regard 
to Europe ; and it will not occupy much space to notice the suitableness of 
the surface cf Europe for such an arrangement. No country is in almost 
every part so well adapted for human residences as England: even Italy 
has its unhealthy districts ; and there are extensive plains in Spain, France, 
Germany, and Russia, better adapted for bearing corn, than for that kind of 
domestic agriculture adapted to the country residences of men of leisure. 
By far the greater portion of Russia is, from its climate and flat surface, 
totally unfit for the elegant or even comfortable enjoyment ‘of a country 
life; taking the average of its whole extent, it may be said to be half the 
year under snow ; spring and autumn are in a great measure wanting, and 
the midday heat of summer is as great as in Italy: the inhabitants, there- 
fore, are necessarily without most of the elegant enjoyments of agriculture 
and gardening, and without most of the natural beauties of country scenery. 
But the whole territory, from the Baltic to the Black Sea, is admirably. 
adapted for the culture of corn; and this, in a great degree, for the very 
reasons why it is so ill adapted for rural enjoyment. In consequence of 
the prolonged covering of snow, no soil is prepared for the seed with so 
little labour ; none requires so little manure; none is so free from root 
weeds ; and no surface is more even, less in want of draining or irrigation, or 
less liable to suffer from drought or rain. All these circumstances are 
particularly favourable for the culture of annual plants. Corn is an annual 
which comes rapidly to perfection, and therefore can be grown in as great 
abundance in Russia as in France and Spain, and far better than in Ger- 
many, where the soil is in many parts arid. Russia, therefore, seems formed 
by nature to be the corn and potato field of Europe; and, if ever this 
should take place, the employment of steam in agriculture will there be 
exhibited to as great advantage as its employment in manufactures is in 
England. But we shall submit to much of what we have advanced being 
called wild speculation, provided we shall hear of some one adapting the 
steam-engine to the plough or harrow. 

A Lamp, with what, in popular language, may be called a glass wick, on 
the principle lately discovered, though not yet perfected, but likely to lead 
to the most important results, will be a most valuable article in small 
green-houses, and in the tiny pits and frames of amateur gardeners like 
myself. It might be employed during the day to heat a large vessel of 
water, which material, as it gives out its heat very slowly, would keep the 
surrounding atmosphere warm during the night, — A Horticultural Apothe- 
cary, Sept. 28. d 


Order and Neatness. Q45 


Artificial Mode of milking Cows. — A correspondent (S. F’.) suggests that 
some of the stomach pumps, for example Read’s, might probably be applied 
to extracting the milk from the udders of cows, on the principle of cupping. 
The advantages which he anticipates are, saving of labour, time, and greater 
cleanliness. 

Law of Nature as to the Shooting of ligneous Plants. — It would seem that 
all dicotyledonous plants of the ligneous kind that will stole, 7. e. shoot up 
from the root when cut down, will also shoot out from such parts of their 
stems and branches as have at any former time produced buds, even though 
these buds be entirely cut off. To induce these shoots from the stems and 
branches, however, it is necessary that all the buds existing at the time on 
any part of the tree should be removed, otherwise the vital principle will 
not make the requisite exertion, any more than the root of a tree will 
stole, unless the tree be cut down. ‘The truth of this theory is exemplified 
in a peculiar mode of pruning the vine, said to have been first practised by. 
a gardener of the name of Lawrence, and adopted both in the hot-houses, and 
in the open air, at Rooksnest in Surrey, and, we believe; some other places. 
What is called the spurring in method is followed; but, instead. of leaving 
spurs, all the side shoots are cut off so close to the old wood, that not a 
single visible bud is left on any part of the plant. In spring a great number. 
of embryo shoots are protruded from the situations of former shoots, from 
which one of the best is selected, and the rest are rubbed off. We are 
promised a detailed account of this mode of pruning with the advantages 
attending it, (which we confess we do not exactly understand,) by Mr. Squib. 
of Rooksnest, already mentioned (p. 189.) as an excellent gardener. 


Art. VIII. Order and Neatness. 


Ir has always struck us that English gardens were very deficient in that- 
orderly arrangement, neatness in detail, and high keeping of the more 
select parts, of which they are susceptible. These are beauties which add 
to every other beauty, and which can be understood and valued by those 
by whom some other beauties cannot be fully appreciated; for instance, 
botanical arrangement by those who know nothing of botany. As far as 
we can recall to mind the gardens of Scotland as they were kept about 
twenty years ago, we think that, speaking generally, they were better kept 
than those of England; we can say with confidence that the kitchen-cardens 
there were much better kept than they generally are here, and we are 
informed that this is still the case. The gardeners on the Continent seldom 
equal us in the higher branches of cultivation, but very frequently surpass us 
in neatness of keeping, dress, and ornament. But, at all events, whether we 
are right in our judgment as to the Scotch and foreign gardens or not, “we 
are sure we are correct when we say that English gardens admit of much 
improvement in the particulars to which we allude. This opinion was 
more forcibly impressed upon us, in consequence of having lately called at 
some gardens in different parts of the country ; and it has occurred to us 
that we might promote the cause of neatness, by taking some notice of those 
which we thought in the best order. We are aware that this is a very 
likely mode to give offence, but we are willing to risk a chance of this 
result against the chance of doing good both to gardeners and their 
employers. The following places came under our notice : — 

Ampthill Park, Bedfordshire, Lord Holland, on September the 12th; 
Wrest Park, Countess De Grey, Sept. 15th ; Hawnes House, Lord Carteret, 

R 3 


en pe eaten a= 


246 Order and Neatness. 


September 14th; Flitwick House, Bedfordshire, J.T. Brookes, Esq., Sep- 
tember 15th; Ampthill Nursery, Mr. Thomas Gibbs, F.H.S., September 16th; 
Whitmore Lodge, Sunning Hill, Berkshire, Robert Mangles, Esq. F.H.S., 

September 20th; Mrs. Hickman’s Villa, near Golding, Surrey, September 

22d; Villa of Wrightson, Esq., near Woking, Surrey, September 25d ; 

Golding Nursery, near Woking, Surrey, Mr. Donald, F.H.S., September 

24th; Pains Hill Park, Surrey, Countess of Carhampton, September 25th; - 
Claremont, Surrey, Prince Leopold of Saxe Coburgh, September 25th ; 

Deepdene, Surrey, Thomas Hope, Esq., September 26th ; Denbies, Surrey, 

W. G. Dennison, Esq., September 26th; Westlands Nursery, Dorking, 

Surrey, September 27th; Bury Hill, Surrey, Robert Barclay, Esq. F.L.S. 

H.S., September 27th; Rooksnest, Surrey, C. H. Turner, Esq. F.L.S. 

H.S., September 28th; Bickley, Kent, John Wells, Esq. F.H.S., September 

2sth; Sundridge Park, Kent, Samuel Scott, Esq. F'.H.S., September 28th ; 

Plaistow Lodge, Kent, Walter Boyd, Esq., September 28th; Bromley 

Hill, Kent, Lord Farnborough, F.H.S. &c., September 29th. 

Of all these places the only one which came entirely up to our views of 
neatness and high keeping was Bromley Hill; certainly one of the most 
judiciously laid out and best kept places of the size which we have ever 
seen. Itis also very much the style of place that we admire. The kitchen- 
garden and reserve-grounds were not less neat and free from litter and 
weeds than the pleasure-ground; the walls were well covered with fruit 
trees bearing good crops, and the compartments fully stocked with vege- 
tables. The great object aimed at in the pleasure-ground is effect; the 
beautiful picturesque in regard to general views, show and ornament in 
regard to flowers, dress and high keeping near the house, and pleasing 
lines and forms every where. The head-gardener of this department, Mr. 
James Nash, is most assiduously attentive ; he told us it required his utmost 
exertion to keep things as they were; we have sent him a copy of the first and 
second volumes of the Gardener’s Magazine, as a mark of our approbation, 
and we hope his employers will continue the work to him, as a mark of theirs. 
‘We have made a similar present to the head kitchen-gardener, Mr. James 
Linn, and we hope the work will be continued to him, as well as to the other. 
To his foreman, Mr. James Halley, who showed us through the garden, 
and who takes in the Gardener’s Magazine, we have sent the first ten 
numbers of the Library of Useful Knowledge, and trust to his making a 
good use of them, and continuing to take in the work. 

The place which we found in the second best order is the grounds of Flit- 
wick House, which may be consideredin the light of a Ferme Ornée. There 
is not much ground in high keeping here; but there are above twelve miles 
of walks in natural and artificial woods, ten miles of which we walked over, 
and found every part in the most appropriate order. This is the result 
of a very judicious and highly commendable practice in Mr. Brookes, of 
letting out all his shrubbery and copse-wood walks at so much a mile to 
his labourers and their families, to hoe, mow, and otherwise keep neat, after 
working hours. The consequence is, they are kept in perfect order all the 
summer at very little expense, and the labourers are benefited. The thorn 
hedges on the estate, and the grass fields, are kept free from weeds in the 
same manner. The kitchen-garden was in perfect order, and highly pro- 
ductive in every part. There is a botanic ground, an arboretum, an aviary, 
and other things here which we shall afterwards have occasion to notice; 
in the mean time we have presented Mr. Brookes’s gardener, Trotter, 
(who already takes in the Gardener’s Magazine,) with Popular Philosophy, 
published by Miller of Dunbar,as a mark of our approbation, and a testimony 
of his professional skill and industry. _ 

The pleasure-ground at Whitmore Lodge comes up to the beau ideal 
of the highest order and keeping; the roses are gathered as they wither, 
and the leaves as they drop, every morning; and in order that the leaves of 


Original Beauty of Lines and Forms. 247 


the Portugal and common laurels may maintain their full vigour, and neither 
drop nor become pale, as they often do when the trees are allowed to 
ripen their berries, the flower spikes are cut off as soon as they begin to 
fade. As the kitchen-garden and hot-houses here were undergoing alter- 
ation, the place could not be considered as in perfect order; otherwise, 
in as far as that order went, Whitmore Lodge was equal to Bromley Hill. 
To the gardener, Mr. Sharp, we have sent Sweet’s Hot-house and Green= 
house Manual, for his encouragement and improvement. 

Most of the other gardens deserve mentioning for something commend- 
able; Mr, Donald’s nursery is by far the best kept country nursery we have 
ever seen, and was literally without a weed ; the flower-gardens at Ampthill 
and at Hawnes were well stocked and in good order; the gardener at 
Pains Hill understands his business well; the kitchen-garden at Claremont 
we can never like from the incongruous mixture of botany and kitchen 
crops, though both plants and crops were in vigorous growth; many parts 
of Deepdene about the house are exquisite, and Mr. Wood, the gardener, 
is a man of science, a good practical naturalist, and most assiduous; but 
for such a place he would require more hands; Bury Hill has long been 
celebrated, the hot-houses were in the first rate order, and though. they 
are placed in the kitchen-garden, and the latter combines botanical plants, 
yet they are disposed in a manner less offensive to congruity than at 
Claremont; Rooksnest is kept in very good style, and the gardener, Mr. 
Squib, from whom we hope to hear on his vines, well deserves commendation ; 
the gardener at Bickley, Mr. John Wells, had his flower-garden in the very 
first order, and deserves from his master Arnott’s Elements of Natural 
Philosophy for himself, and The Library of Useful Knowledge for his son; 
the pleasure-ground at Sundridge Park is overgrown with trees, chiefly 
hornbeams, and other vulgar sorts. But, as soon as leisure permits, we 
shall give some farther notices of these and other gardens and places. 


Art. IX. Original Beauty of Lines and Forms. 


A Lecture “on the beauties contained in the oval, and in the elliptic 
curves, both simple and combined, generated from the same figure or disk,” 
was some time since delivered in the Royal Institution, by R. R. Reinagle, 
Esq. R.A., and a very interesting abstract of it is given in the Quarterly 
Journal of Science for October last. The subject had been before treated, 
as connected with elegant art, by Hogarth and Donaldson, artists whose 
theories of serpentine lines and flowing lines are well known. Mr. Reinagle’s 
object is to prove that curved lines are beautiful in an abstract point of 
view, without reference to the associations which experience may have con- 
nected with them ; and he has brought forward such evidence as, we think, 
cannot fail of convincing all who have turned their attention to the subject ; 
unless, perhaps, we except the author of the Essay on Beauty, in the Sup- 
plement to the Encyclopedia Britannica, who denies that there exists such 
a thing as original beauty, and maintains that all beauty, of whatever kind, 
and in every fine art, may be traced to the principle of association, Mr. 
Reinagle’s theory and illustrations have all that superiority over those of Ho- 
garth, which the more cultivated mind of its author, and the comparatively 
advanced state of the fine arts, might be supposed to admit. If Mr. 
Reinagle is not perfectly satisfactory on all points, his illustrations abound 
with so many undeniable truths, that every artist may profit from their 
perusal ; and we shall, therefore, take a brief view of such parts of it as may 

R 4 


248 Originat Beauty of Lines and Forms. 


be brought to bear, by garden-artists, on that comparatively humble province 
of design which is applied to the laying out of flower-gardens. * 

Mr. Reinagle assumes it as an axiom, that every object eminently beauti- 
ful or grand is distinguished by an outline of definite character ; that is, an 
outline which may be referred to one or more geometrical figures ; or, more. 
abstractedly, something that is a well-ordered whole, in opposition to some- 
thing that is in a state of chaos or confusion. All beautiful objects, he says, 
are composed of undulating lines and elliptic curves; and all grand objects,. 
of figures bounded. by straight and angular lines. All objects in motion 
are characterised by curved lines ; and all objects in a state of rest, by com- 
paratively straight lines. 

1. Parallel Lines, at equal distances, and of equal length, and whether in a 
horizontal or perpendicular position ( fig. 65.) Y 

S a ’ One 65 
possess not the slightest character or princi- | 
ple of beauty, either separately or collectively. ) 

Corollary as to Gardening. — Lines of in- —————__— 
visible fences (i. e. such as bound lawns, and 
are to be looked through) should be simple 
and parallel, without any other angles or 
curves than what strength or construction renders absolutely necessary. 

2. Straight lines radiating from a centre ( fig. 66.), without creating any 
geometrical figure, are yet pleasing. 06 

Coroll. — Avoid this form (sometimes adopted) 
at the ends of fences formed on the invisible prin- 
ciple ; but adopt it sometimes in ornamental 
fences, and in spreading the branches of orna- 
mental trees on walls or espaliers, 

5. Lines placed like a pile of planks are disagreeable, singly and as a 

te SU ee whole, from their indefiniteness (_fig.67.); but, if the 
pile be carried to a point (fig. 69.), they become 
tolerable as a whole, from their definiteness, or their 
assumption of a regular figure. An equilateral or 
an acute-angled triangle of such 
lines ( fig. 68.), is naturally more pleasing than a right- 68 
= 6g  ,angled triangle. ( fig..69.) sina) 

Coroll. — Bumps, or unconnected ob- — 
tuse heaps of earth or rock-work, are — 
disagreeable objects ; earth in ridges,or = ———— 
rock-work in pointed or definite shapes, 
is more tolerable. 

4. Leaves of trees possess different degrees of original 
beauty, according to the prevalence of straight lines or curved lines. Leaves 
may possess mere combination, or a very low degree of beauty ( jig.70. a); 


70 
e SF IF 
NE ie ITI LESSER LEK 


some beauty, by the addition of curved lines to straight lines (4); a better 
approach (¢); a progressive advance (d); a more perfect principle of beauty 
(e); the greatest portion of beautiful lines( f). Deformity, or a retrogra- 
dation from the principle of beauty, is produced by the abrupt union of 
straight lines with curved lines (g). 

Coroll.— Some plants are absolutely more beautiful than’ others, inde- 
pendently altogether of colour, smell, rarity, or value; e. g. myrtle, box. 


t 


Original Beauty of Lines and Forms. 249 


5. Curved lines thrown down at random are agreeable in themselves, and 


enh eae 


form amore agreeable whole, or assemblage, than straight lines thrown down 
dt random (fig. 71. aand 8). 

Coroll. — A flower-garden, composed of ungeometrical or irregular beds, 
bounded by straight lines and angles ( fig. 72.), will havea less pleasing effect 


vy 470, Tie PRT I 


250 Original Beauty of Lines and Forms. 


6. Curved lines, formed into a figure on the radiating principle ( fig. '74. a), 
are handsomer than 


straight lines so con- 14 
nected (6). 
Coroll, — Curled 
wool or hair is hand- 
somer than what is @ b 
straight; Stipa pen- 
nata, than Juncus syl- 
vaticus; an ear of bar- 
ley, than an ear of 


wheat. Groups or 

beds of flowers form a less handsome flower-garden when merely scattered 
over the surface (fig.73.), than when composed into a figure or figures 
( fig. 75., the flower-garden at Dropmore). Curved walks are naturally, or 
originally, handsomer than straight walks ; so much so, that no principle is 
so frequently carried to excess in laying out grounds. 


INS O70m 

x wy 
) OS 
K Sie @ (OS® 


7. Quantity and variety are essential to perfect beauty.— A symmetry 
composed of equalities ( jig. 76.), is less beautiful 
thana symmetry composed of inequalities.( jig.77.) 

: i Coroll.—A line 
of flower-beds 
consisting of a 
figure composed of various shapes and 
sizes ( fig. 78. a), will be handsomer than 
one composed by a varied disposition of 
one single beautiful shape, even though of different sizes (4). 


a 78 
OO ss Om” 
oo ee 2 ues 
S Coo. a0? 
8. Straight lines, radiating at unequal distances from curved lines, possess no 
original beauty (jig. 79. a); but straight lines, forming irregular tangents to 
Qa . VW 6b 


/ 


17 


curved lines, are beautiful (4) on the radiating principle. 
Coroll. — The lines of the basketwork enclosing the figures of parterres 
composed of curved lines, should also be of curved lines. In ornamental 


Original Beauty of Lines and Forms. 251 


gates and fences, the transition from indifferent lines to lines of original 
beauty should not be abrupt ; e. g. Chinese gates and palisades, as contrasted 
with enriched Dutch and British iron gates and palisades. 

These illustrations appear to be sufficient to prove that there is such a 
thing as original beauty in lines and forms; and this study may afford valuable 
hints to a garden-artist, provided he has the power of attending to what 
passes in his own mind, to such a degree as to prevent him from mistaking 
impressions arising from associations founded on utility, on historical or clas- 
sical authorities, on imitations of antiquity or of nature, or on accidental 
associations, with impressions produced by figure or outline alone. To 
cultivate this sort of knowledge, Stewart’s Philosophy of the Human Mind, 
Stewart’s Philosophical Essays, and Allison’s Essays on Taste, will be found 
works of preeminent value. 


After some practice in applying these principles to the lines and forms of 
flower-gardens, the young garden-artist may exercise himself in exemplify- 
ing them in the scattering of trees, groups, or clumps, over a flat surface. 
He may use dots on a sheet of paper, or marks with a stick on a sandy road, 

and begin with dots or clumps thrown down at random, or without any 
beauty either original or by association. (fig. 80.) He may next exhibit an 


i * e 80 ; 
@ 
i ae <i 
ee 
: ; Pp, 
e th, 
> A 9 a? 
. ae Se 


approximation to grouping, by bringing nearer together some of the dots 


~* c:) $1 
2 ® 
® ie) B Bits 
5 aig 
c hd 
ep ab? o 
ete 2 
or clumps ( fig. 81.) ; show grouping more decidedly ( fig. 82.); and, lastly, 

EatNes AU Pe LS > 
ies 

PAD ilye eg | 

ieee Ee b 
ie bi Pd 


252 Garden Libraries. 


group so as to throw the surface into agreeable shapes. ( fig.85.) This will 


® 
ert 
wo o> ". 
°° % 
es s 
5 Ba SRO e@ ee 
wee, e Z 
-e “* e 
si 4 
a oe 
°? Ct “e 
ce 
i ry 
r) eiies 
e ae @ Ci ts a 
@ e e @ 
; TPES Wa Ha é 
Y o = re @ 
k °. °°” i 
ee 
ry 
e 
@e oe) 


be found all that the principle of original beauty of forms and lines can do, 
in planting a flat surface, without reference to other beauties, either of the 
materials of the scenes, or of the exterior scenery, or of established associa- 
tions. 


ArT. X. Garden Libraries. 


LIBRARY in the Glasgow Botanic Garden.— Your ideas as to garden 
libraries have been anticipated and acted upon to some extent by Mr. 
Murray, the very intelligent and judicious curator of the Glasgow botanic 
garden, for some years. By the application of a small sum annually, a 
considerable number of books on gardening subjects have been collected, 
expressly for the use of the workmen, who are besides allowed to attend 
the botanical lectures delivered at the garden (a most important advan- 
tage), in consideration of being sometimes detained in the evening watering 
during hot weather.— A.W. July 27. 

A Library has been formed in a haberdasher’s house in London, where 
there are upwards of twenty young men, who all board in the house, and 
who are thereby kept at home, improving and entertaining themselves, 
instead of running about the streets, without any definite object in view. 
This is a practice well deserving of imitation by other tradesmen. (Times, 
Sept. 18.) 

The following Books we are desirous of recommending to young garden- 
ers and to garden libraries in a most particular manner : — 

Arnot?’s Elements of Natural Philosophy. 8vo. pp.'700. 15s.—This is 
one of the most valuable works of the kind that have ever been published. 
We cannot sufficiently recommend it to every gardener whatever, whether 
young or old. It is a work which a man may take with him on a journey 
to exercise his mind, as Dr. Johnson took with him a book of arithmetic on 
his Highland tour. In an ample analysis of the work, in the Times news- 
paper, Oct. 3., after the highest praise, it is added: “'To the most idle 
schoolboy it will be as entertaining as a treatise on witchcraft or leger- 
demain, and he will go through it with as much avidity; and it is, at the 
same time, a work in which the best informed man will find a great number 
of curious facts and illustrations, which, whatever his familiarity with prin- 
ciples may be, were probably not within his recollection, and very possibly 
not within his knowledge.” 

Popular Philosophy ; or, the Book of Nature laid open upon Christian 
Principles, and agreeably to the Lights of Modern Science and the Progress 


Answers to Queries, and Queries. 253 


of New Discovery. By the Editor of the Cheap Magazine. Dunbar. 
2 vols. small 8vo. 10s. 6d.—This is a religious natural history, which has 
been strongly recommended in most of the Scotch newspapers, and which 
has been sent to us as “ peculiarly adapted for village, itinerating, or garden 
libraries.” 

The Cato Major and Lelius of Cicero; with a double Translation, for 
the Use of Students on the Hamiltonian System. London, Hunt and 
Clarke. 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

The History of Charles XII., by Voltaire; the first Three Books, with 
a double Translation, for the Use of Students on the Hamiltonian System. 
London, Hunt and Clarke. 2 vols. 8vo. 15s. 

These books we have looked over, and can strongly recommend to every 
young gardener desirous of learning French or Latin. 

The Library of Useful Knowledge continues to appear twice a month in 
sixpenny numbers. The gardener will find something applicable to his pro- 
fession in every number. In No.2., Hydraulics, the water ram, a self-working 
engine for raising water, applicable to at least one third of the country 
seats in Britain, but which we have only seen in use at Bury Hill, Surrey, 
is clearly described ; in No. 3., every thing relating to pumps is explained ; 
in 4. and 5., every thing relating to heat ; in 6, 7, and 8., every thing useful 
relating to machines; and in 9., the mechanics of the human frame, under- 
stood to be by Charles Bell, one of the most beautiful and instructive 
treatises that ever were written, and which every labourer ought to peruse, 
if it were only that he may be enabled to make a proper use of his strength. 


Art. XI. Answers to Queries, and Queries. 


CUTTING over young Forest Trees. (p.119.)—Sir,—In compliance with your 
request, and in reply to the queries of your correspondent W. Thonville, 
I beg to submit the following remarks: — The progress that newly planted 
trees will make, depends much on the age and size of the plants, their pre- 
vious treatment in the nursery, the season of planting, and the manner in 
which that operation is performed. ‘To offer directions as to each or any 
of these particulars, might extend the present communication to an impro- 
per length ; and the information it would contain might appear superfluous 
to your correspondent, and to many of your readers. 

In the act of transplanting, the plant is deprived of many of its smallest 
and most efficient feeding radicles, and the remainder are not unfre- 
quently more crowded together than they were before taking up, which 
often tends to check the growth the first season after planting, and this 
check is strengthened and sometimes confirmed by the following causes: — 
While the plants stand in crowded nursery rows, the dense foliage in a 
great measure protects the stem and exterior parts of the shoots from the 
action of the weather, and a thin and delicate bark will be formed, tender 
in proportion to the confined state of the atmosphere where such plants 
grow : and hence the check which is often produced by too violent thinning 
on neglected plantations. No sooner are young plants removed from the 
nursery to the open ground, where they are exposed to the full play of the 
winds, than a hardening and contraction of the bark commences; and, 
while the process of forming a stronger and more impervious bark, suitable 
to the climate, is going forward, the usual results of bark-binding and 
stunted growth are accelerated by the damage sustained by the roots in the 
recent act of transplanting, and the limited flow of sap consequent on such 


254 Answers to Queries, and Queries. 


damage. From the soft and juicy nature of the bark of resinous trees, they 
are less liable than hard wood to this contingency; and I have found no 
plant amongst the hard wood tribes show such symptoms more readily than 
the ash. The oak and some others are more apt to throw out low lateral 
shoots, which, in some degree, tends to restore circulation. 

It therefore appears agreeable to reason, and it is confirmed by expe- 
rience, that cutting down all such plants as will bear cutting is the only 
remedy in such cases; and this brings me to that part of Mr. Thonville’s 
queries, “ whether oak, ash, birch, beech, sycamore, elm, hazel, thorn, &c., 
should be so treated.’ I would say, all of these may be cut down with 
much advantage, with the exception of beech and birch, and none thrive 
better under that operation than lime and Spanish chestnut. If Mr.Thon- 
ville examines his beech plants, he will likely by this time find them getting 
“ bushy,” unless they have been drawn up very weak in the nursery. Let 
him order the thickest of the side shoots to be pruned off close by the tree, 
in next February, taking care that a regular sprinkling of small shoots be 
left all over the tree, and that no aspiring branch be allowed to compete 
with the leading shoot ; and, next summer, he will likely observe sufficient 
growth to prevent his wishing to cut them down. Birch inay be treated in 
the same manner; but, as this plant bleeds freely, I would prefer pruning it 
early in October. 

By the month of October, the third year from planting, the roots will 
have acquired sufficient range and strength to support a luxuriant growth ; 
and at that period I would recommend to Mr. Thonville to have all his 
other hard wood trees cut over to within an inch of the ground, taking care 
that the operator places his foot firmly near the bole while cutting, that the 
roots in the loose trenched soil may not be disturbed by the operation. I 
prefer October for cutting down; by this time the Lammas growth is 
nearly expended, and new buds will form, and be found to break more vi-- 
gorously than if the operation were performed in the spring months. 

With regard to “ repeating the operation,” I consider it “ too much of a 
good thing.” By a single operation, the bark and habits of the plant become 
completely inured to their new situation ; yet, where a stunted growth may 
render it necessary, or where curiosity may prompt the trial, I would re- 
commend cutting the young shoot right above a bud, and within an inch of 
the former cut, the first, or, at farthest, the second, year after the first ope- 
ration. Some plants may push more than one shoot ; the strongest should 
be encouraged, and all the others should be rubbed off in the month of June 
the first year after cutting. I hope this will not form the only communi- 
cation you will receive on the subject, and remain, Sir, &c.— Archibald Gor- 
rie. Annat Garden, Sept.25. 1827. 

Guarding single Trees in Parks. — What is the simplest, cheapest, and 
most sightly mode of guarding single trees planted in parks or lawns from 
the depredations of deer or other animals ? — Answer. Thorn branches, tied 
with hazel or willow shoots, and understocking the pastures. 

Heating Hot-houses with hot water seems coming into vogue. What is 
your opinion of the mode? What is the best shape of a boiler for that 
purpose? —A Friend to Improvement. Sept. 21. 

We have little doubt of hot water superseding both steam and smoke 
flues; certainly steam. A wrought-iron box boiler we should think the 
best ; but our correspondent may refer to Messrs. Bailey, 272: High Holborn, 
who are now heating several hot-houses in this way. 

Iron Hot-houses.—I1, in common with several friends, am anxious to 
ascertain your opinion as to iron hot-houses, and whether you recommend 
them indiscriminately, or only for particular purposes; and also, whether 
you recommend cast or wrought iron, and whether you approve of copper 
sashes? — An Enquirer. Shrewsbury, Aug. 10. 1827. 


Retrospective Criticism. 255 


Our opinion is known to be decidedly in favour of metallic hot-houses, 
on the general principle of their admitting more light, and we do not care 
much what sort of metal is used. But it must be remembered that many 
pecicel gardeners, Mr. Atkinson, who has had great experience in building 

ot-houses, and what is called the Horticultural Society (that is, the one 
or two persons who take the lead in the office and garden of that Society), 
are of a different opinion. In seven years the hot-houses erected, and now 
erecting, at Syon House, upwards of one thousand feet in length, will pro- 
bably set the question at rest. In the mean time, we should be glad of the 
opinion of gardeners who have had such houses under their charge, and 
especially of Mr. M‘Arthur of the Grange, who, we know, has erected and 
managed several iron houses. Our correspondent, Mr. Fraser, will perhaps 
collect the experience of gardeners in Ireland on the subject. 

Hardy Ferns.— Having turned the attention of some of your correspond- 
ents to the treatment of the Orchidez, you might also direct it with success 
to the best treatment of a beautiful, but neglected tribe of plants, the hardy 
ferns. The healthiest that I have seen cultivated are growing in a shady 
peat border, in the garden of R. Barclay, Esq., at Bury Hill, Surrey.— 
A. X. Oct. 25.1826. 

We have lately seen the fine collection at Bury Hill, and, through the 
kindness of its most liberal proprietor, been able to add from it sixty species to 
our collection. We should feel greatly obliged to Mr. Cameron, the gardener 
at Bury Hill, if he would send us a list of the collection under his charge, 
grouping them according to their methods of culture, and describing the 
culture for each group. We would also request Mr.Shepherd, of the 
Liverpool botanic garden, to do the same thing as to the collection there. 
Information on so interesting a department of select culture, from these 
quarters, will be gratifying to every curious gardener. — Cond. 


Art. XII. Retrospective Criticism. 


THE Idea of the Grass-Garden at Woburn Abbey, we are assured upon 
unquestionable authority, was not taken from that of Mr. Gibbs’s nursery, 
Brompton, as we stated (p. 126.), not on the authority of Mr. Gibbs, but 
on that of our contributor J. M. The Woburn Abbey grass-garden, is an 
original design of Mr. Sinclair. 

Trees that will, and will not, grow on Peat Mosses.—Sir,—In taking notice 
of my Natural and Agricultural History of Peat Moss in your Magazine, 
you have mentioned among the trees that grow on peat mosses, the willow 
generally, along with others. Give me leave to say that I think in this _ 
you are mistaken: for, during an experience of upwards of thirty years in 
cultivating and observing such soils, I have never seen any of the larger 
willows growing on moss ground; by which I mean on peaty soils, as long 
as they retain their antiseptic or tanning juices. 

Indeed I have lately planted, unsuccessfully, cuttings of the larger sorts 
of willows upon my own moss grounds that I had drained upwards of 
twenty years ago, and where other trees were thriving. This want of suc- 
cess. cannot be attributed to any defect in the climate, as these cuttings 
were taken from good willow trees, growing within a few hundred yards 
of the moss. 

If you had taken the trouble to have looked into the appendix to my 
work, in the correspondence by which I strengthen my statements in the 
body of the history, you would have seen the following sentence on this 
subject. “The Salix alba, the white willow, Salix fragilis, the crack 


256 Obituary. 


willow, and Salix viminadlis, the ozier, and in general all our largest and 
best willows, will grow in pure water; but I have tried them in every 
possible way in moss grounds, and I am satisfied that they will not grow 
there, even on the sides of moss ditches.” 

I need not, however, inform you that there are many tribes of dwarf 
willows which occupy the surface of peaty and marshy grounds; and, be- 
sides, one is naturally misled, from the aquatic nature of willows in general, 
to think that all of them would grow in mosses ; and from this idea I was 
grievously mistaken at my first cultivation of moss grounds. Having pro- 
cured from the botanic garden at Edinburgh, and other places, several 
sackfuls of the cuttings of the most useful willows, I planted them in the 
banks of my moss ditches; but I was much disappointed to find, after re- 
peated trials, that the moss water was poisonous to them. They indeed 
sprung a few inches at first, but they soon died away, and not one of many 
thousand cuttings survived. 

I dare say that you may be nearly correct with regard to the other trees 
that you mention as thriving well on drained moss grounds. Mr. Arthur 
Young, in his Irish Tour, says that almost any tree will thrive on dry moss 
lands ; but my own experience points out the spruce as the best. Other 
trees may be preferred perhaps in the following order: Scotch fir, birch, 
mountain ash, alder, larch, oak, beech, poplar, sycamore. Also the follow- 
ing willows thrive in such soils, and grow to ten or fifteen feet or more in 
height, viz. the pentandrous or bay-leaved willow, Salix pentandra, the 
apple-tree-leaved willow, Salix malifolia, the ash-coloured willow, or sallow, 
Salix cinérea. I have the honour to be, Sir, &c. — Andrew Stcele. Willow 
Grove, near Edinburgh, July 10. 1827. 

We have real satisfaction in recording the corrections of Mr. Steele, and, 
as we have repeatedly mentioned, shall always feel obliged for similar com- 
munications from every description of readers. As we do not spare others, 
we cannot reasonably expect to escape ourselves. 


Arr. XIII. Odztuary. 


Diep lately, at Mile End nursery, Mr. Samuel Stirling, who had been 
foreman there for a long period of years. His natural sobriety, and 
steadiness of moral character, made him an excellent example, as well as 
monitor, to the thousands of young men who, in the course of so many 
years, became known to him in that respectable establishment. His abilities, 
as a practical nurseryman, were of the first order, and his indefatigable 
attention to the more difficult processes of propagation was eminently 
useful to his employers. Naturally unobtrusive and unassuming in his 
manners, he refused several offers of co-partnership in the nursery business ; 
and remained stationary in the scale of rank, as well as of emolument, 
while he assisted many of his juniors, as well as inferiors, into places of com- 
parative wealth and respectability. J. MM. : 

Died, on the 3d of October, Mr. William Scott, nurseryman, Dorking, 
many years gardener at Chart Park in that neighbourhood. Mr. Scott was 
a pupil of the late Mr. Aiton of Kew Gardens, and one of the first who was 
successful in propagating the rarer species of Hrica and the Single Camellia 
from cuttings. ‘This art he taught to Mr. Rollison, sen., of Tooting, till, 
as he used to say, the master was beat by the scholar. He was an honest 
and amiable man, and much respected in his station—A.D. Oct. 22. 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
JANUARY, 1828. 


{PART 4. 
ORIGINAL CORRESPONDENCE. 


Art. I. Some Account of the Flower-gardens and the Pine- 
tum at Dropmore, the Seat of Lord Grenville. By Mr. 
Wiuiam Baru, Gardener at Dropmore. Interspersed 
with general Remarks on the Gardens and Grounds there, 

~ by the Connuctor. 


Dyropmore has been long celebrated for its pinetum, or col- 
lection of plants of the pine and fir tribe, and for the taste dis- 
played in the flower-garden. Some account of the former, 
which contains upwards of fifty species of pines, will open to 
view an extensive field for the improvement of evergreen 
forest scenery; and the lists of flowers, and the mode of dis- 
playing them in the parterre and Dutch garden, will afford 
useful instruction to every class of gardeners and amateurs ; 
instruction the more valuable, because, in so simple a matter 
as planting flower-beds, very few think it worth while to pro- 
ceed systematically. ‘The grand lesson to be learned from the 
flower scenery at Dropmore is the advantage of placing beauty 
in masses. 

As a situation for a country residence, Dropmore exhibits 
no. very striking natural feature. The house is pleasingly and 
picturesquely situated among woody scenery and fine turf; and 
the views from the lawn command ‘a very rich and grand dis- 
tance, including Windsor Castle and Windsor Forest. It is 
simple, spacious, and elegant, with a judiciously contrived 
conservatory in front, the glass of which is removed during 
summer, leaving the roof supported on piers of trelliswork, 
the structure assuming at that period of the year the character 

Vou, ITI. — No. 11. s 


Parterre at Dropmore. 


258 


When we saw this veranda in July last, it was 


of a veranda. 


UY Yi YY Y 


aaa 


Flower-gardens at Dropmore. 259 


beautifully clothed with flowering creepers, magnolias, and 
geraniums ; and, altogether, the disposition of plants about and 
against the ‘garden front of the house equalled our expectations, 
while the symmetrical disposition of assemblages of flowers on 
the lawn surpassed them. The effect of considerable masses, 
entirely composed of Geranium, of Célsza, of Heliotropium, of 
Fiachsza, of Salvia coccinea, and of various other free-growing 
green-house plants, i is striking from its novelty and rarity, and 
well worthy of imitation. We have seen no place where this 
description of flower-gardening is carried to such an extent as 
it is at Dropmore. 

The masses of flowers in front of the house form a regular 
figure (fig. 84.), and the plants are so disposed that, when in 
flower, the corresponding forms of the figure contain corre- 
sponding coloured flowers. ‘The following i: is a list of the plants 
which now occupy this figure, with the “order in which they 
are disposed, and a corresponding enumeration of the bulbs and 
other plants which occupy the beds during winter and spring : 


Beds. In Summer. In wi inter and Spring. 
1. Rosa indica (blush), bordered with 
R. semperflorens flore pléno, ‘Anemone coronaria. 


and. R. indica minor. 
2,2. Pelargonium inquinans ey iNelines maritima Vi itginian 
geranium). stock). 
3. Verbena Lambértiz. 


4, Senecio élegans flore pléno (dou- Tulipa Gesneriana common (hardy 
ble jacobzea). + Weenies): 3 
Pee nents Delphinium Ajacis (rocket lark- 
5, 5. Celsia urticitolia. ; spur), sown mm autumn. 
6, 6. Cineraria amelloides. Crocus meesiacus. 


7. Fachsia coccinea, bordered with 
Primula vulgaris var. flore 
pléno-carnea. 

8. Heliotropium peruvidnum. 


9, Ruéllia formésa. t 
f 


Scilla mnonscripta (blue —hare- 
bells). 
Musciri comésum var. monstrésum. 
10. Ageratum mexicana, Baise ‘ sleeelens. 
11. Dianthus chinénsis (Indian pink) 
and Reséda odorata (migno- 
nette). 
12. Lobéléa spléndens. 
13. Dianthus latifolius. | 
14. Lobélia unidentata. 
15, 15, 15, 15. Choice herbaceous 
plants, not exceeding 1 ft. 6 in. 
in height. a 


16,16. Gladiolus eatin 


_ Tiilipa Gesneriana var. flore pléno 
(double sorts). 


Tulipa Gesneriana (single sorts). 
| Ixia cr ocata, and J’xia fenestralis, 
kept in frames in midwinter. 


pease orientalis (double blue 
variety), plunged in pots. 


Hyacinthus orientalis (double red 


flowered variegated ivy-leaved variety), plunged in pots. 


17. Pelargonium  latéripes way 
geranium), 
18. Anagallis grandiflora. — f Hyacinthus orientalis (single blue 
19. Anagallis Monélli. variety). 
Ss 


2 


260 Flower-gardens at Dropmore. 


Beds. In Summer. In Winter and Spring. 


20. Pelargonium coruscans. 
21. Pelargonium, sp. ? (Prince of 
Orange geranium). 


Hyacinthus orientalis(single white 
22. CGinothéra czespitosa. : 


variety). 
: : Sie Crocus vérnus and biflorus. 
23. CGfnothéra missouriénsis. 


24. Pelargonium zonale ( scarlet- Hyacinthus orientalis (double red 


flowered variegated-leaved var.) variety). 
25. MAlope trifida. Tulipa Gesneriana (double yellow 
26. Lobélia falgens. variety). 


Hyacinthus orientalis (double 


27. Pettinia odorata. Site Tatar 


28. Commelina ceeléstis. - ; ee botryoides (grape hya- 
, . O’xalis caprina, kept in frames in 

29. Cistus guttatus. aa at 

30. Campanula pentagona. Scilla vérna. 


31, Rosa damascéna (four seasons 
rose) and Reséda odorata (mig- 
nonette.) 


Muscari racemosa, the border of 
V iola tricolor in varieties. 


Hyacinthus orientalis (double 

white variety). 

55. Tropeolum majus flore eae Delphinium Ajacis (double rose 
(double nasturtium). larkspur). 


52. Bouvardia triphylla. 


As a general principle for regulating the plants in this 
figure, Mr. Baillie observes that the winter and spring flowers 
ought, as much as possible, to be of sorts which admit of 
being left in the ground all the year; and the summer crop 
should be planted in the intervals between the winter plants. 
Or the summer crop having been brought forward in pots 
under glass, or by nightly protection, may be planted out about 
the middle of June, after the winter plants in pots are removed. 
A number of hardy bulbs ought to be potted and plunged in 
the beds in the months of October and November, and when 
out of bloom, in May or June, removed to the reserve-garden, 
and plunged there, in order to perfect their foliage, and ma- 
ture their bulbs for the succeeding season. 

In some parts of the grounds the masses are thrown about 
the surface, without regard to regularity or combination of 
figures, and, occasionally, as it struck us at the moment, in a 
manner which was rather injurious to what a painter would 
call breadth of effect. Sometimes a large mass of one colour 
has an eye in the centre of a different colour, and marginal 
borders of contrasted colours. In the open glades of lawn in 
the woody scenery, groups of flowers rise up among moss, others 
among roots, rocks, gravel, petrifactions, bark, or other mate- 
rials. Fine single specimens of green-house plants appear 
here and there, plunged in pots. On observing the surface 
round the large geraniums in general closely covered with 


Flower-gardens at Dropmore. 261 


smooth gravel stones, about the size of hens’ eggs, we were 
informed that the stems of geraniums are very apt to rot after 
continued moist weather, and that these stones are found to 
counteract this tendency; probably by maintaining a drier sur- 
face, and causing greater reflection of heat during moments of 
sunshine. 
The Dutch Flower-garden consists of sixteen beds, each 
14 ft. in length, and 6 ft. in width (fg. 85.) ; and the following 


85 


oesosoogosqcocecooooosegesescqogocoocqceocoeoseooooeoeoeoooogo 
¥YXNMANVNANAANANNNYNYAXVNYANWANAXYWY 
CS] DI PRS Me RTRs at hes Ta ofa Nodes | ele RRL cite} sted) oh e eo} aorta) 
X¥¥YNANNWNANYANANAANANVAANAE 
Peg ee ew ee ee ey 
X¥YYVYNNANANA¥MNNARNANXNA¥AXVNAANVNY 
GFL ROH UMS Masia Mpg Nef aete dc URS EY od ek Soa aed ited Mates nike f Mite efi ote) 
MYNMNANAYNWAANANVNVANAXYYVNUNANY 
Demy Wis au Cay ne SO) OPO m imal eae Oil. Sine. Clea Cin tik. Samm tee tts 
X9XMNYAYWNANNWVWANAANVNYYNVYAXYANVNANYVNY 
SP ME oh Rh teh if) ep Ne oe) OR ARE SE et ty 
XYYMVNNANYNYANYAXNNANAANWNANAWYNY 


ceooeoooocoooooooseseqooooseoscoseqoogoqoccoscoogogqoeeoocgo 


ecoooooqoceqoocooeocooss 
essssooooqooqoqoqoocoso 


is a list of the plants which are grown in them, the arrange- 
ment varying every year, so that the same plants may not be 
two years in succession on the same bed: — 


In Summer ( fig. 85. &). In Winter and Spring ( fig. 85.% ). 
1. Gnotheéra missouriénsis. Narcissus poéticus. 
2. Lobelia falgens. Tilipa Gesneridna (select varieties). 
2 pis Wed Anémone -horténsis, in autumn 
5. Anemone horténsis (double). ; Tob sine dec Gribene: 
4, Ruéllia formosa. Gladiolus byzantinus. 
5. Commelina ceeléstis. Narcissus florib(ndus. 
6. Fuchsia coccinea. Erythronium dens cinis. 
F plait Tilipa Gesneriana (parrot and 
7. Verbena Lamberti. ; double yellow varieties). 


8. Pelargonium zonale (pink nose- ? Nareissus jonguilla. 
gay variety). 5 
; Hyacinthus orientalis, double va- 
rieties in all colours. 
10. Gladiolus cardinalis. Sanguinaria canadénsis, plunged. 
11. Tigridia Pavonia. All the year. 
12. Mathiola annua (scarlet ten- 
week stock). 
15. Pelargonium Fothergilli (scar- 
let nosegay geranium). 


‘9. Heliotropium peruvianum. 


Anemone coronaria (double). 


Narcissus calathinus. 


Salvi , Tulipa Gesneridana (var. double 
eee vee se ee red, or pzeonia-flowered variety). 
15. Fachsia gracilis. Scilla vérna. 

16. Dianthus Caryophyllus (double , ne vent 
carnations). 


17. Pelargonium latéripes (pink nh Glaanelnwoam icine 
_ viegated ivy-leaved geranium). 
s 3 


A 


262 Hlower-gardens at Dropmore. 


In Summer: '. In Winter and Spring. 
18. Coreopsis tinctoria. ; fee Eee Ajacis (double:rocket 


Tilipa Gesneridna (early clari- 
; mond variety). 
Eranthis hyemalis (winter aco- 
; nite). 


19. Pelargonium Daveyanum. 


20. Célsia urticifolia. 


A bed (fig. 85.) of the dimensions given by Mr. Baillie will 
contain six rows of any one of the summer plants enume- 
rated; five rows between them of any of the winter and 
spring bulbs mentioned ; and a surrounding border of Crocus, 
Trichonéma, Bulbocddium, Scilla, Saxifraga granulata, and 
similar plants, 3 in. from the edge of the bed, and the same 
distance apart from each other. The summer plants (x in 
Jig. 85.) are readily inserted in the centre of the squares formed 
by the winter plants (¥ in fy. 85.), without the least risk of 
injuring the latter; and, when finished, the summer plants 
will be 1 ft. apart from the summer plants, the winter plants 
1 ft. apart from the winter plants, and all the plants of one 
season 6 in. distant from the plants of the other season. 

After disposing of flowers and plants in immense quantities, 
and in almost innumerable forms on a flat. surface, an active 
mind like that of Lady Grenville, enthusiastically fond of gar- 
dening pursuits, cannot avoid pushing the taste farther. ‘The 
direction given to this extreme of art here, is that of raising 
the plants in the air in grotesque vessels of a great variety 
of shapes (jig. 86.) ; of surrounding them with varied basket- 


x Ay Git 
Ay M 
LE: Dy 


AEE 


work; or of training them on elevated forms of wire, and trellis- 
work, It is worthy of remark and of imitation, and indeed it 
forms a characteristic of the artificial ornaments of Dropmore, 
that they are not so much made up of costly materials, as by 
the application of skill and taste, and the labour of local work- 
men, to articles of little intrinsic value. Fantastic roots and 
boughs of trees, with rods of hazel or other clean growths, bark, 
moss, and such old boxes, barrels, tubs, or jars, as may be at 
hand, and would otherwise be burned or thrown away, are the 


Flower-gardens at Dropmore. 263 


materials which are metamorphosed into forms remarkable 
for their singularity (jg. 87.), or en- 
gaging for their allusion to shapes of | 
established beauty. For example, a 
tripod for geraniums consists of an old 
cask, which had contained Roman ce- & 
ment; and an old Italian jar, such as is 
sent from the oil-shops with grapes or 
Genoese pickles, forms the basis of an 
elegant vase, which may be supported 
on a pedestal consisting of an old tea- 
chest disguised by pieces of bark. In 
this way, by the tasteful application of a 
little labour, and with materials worth 
almost nothing, are produced pleasing and varied objects and 
effects. 

There is no greater evidence of attachment to a situation 
and a pursuit, than to be always doing and contriving some- 
thing. Various plans of improvement are in progress at 
Dropmore, some of which relate to the more confined and 
artificial beauties near the house, and others to the pinetum, to 
a winding avenue of cedars, and to an extensive piece of ground 
laying out with water and rough banks, in imitation of wild 
scenery. As far as we observed and learned, the formation 
of this water and the wild scenery are in a style which would 
give satisfaction to Mr. Price. Rough picturesque surfaces, 
exotic plants and shrubs, and the common productions of wild 
situations, as heath, broom, furze, ferns, and digitalis, are hap- 
pily combined. 

In the conservatory there is an abundant crop of Passifléra 
edulis (Gard. Mag., vol.ii. p. 232. fig. 63.); and against a 
lofty wall are some plants of Magnola grandiflora, which must 
be amongst the tallest and oldest in England. Near this wall 
are some of the finest specimens of the Stuartza, Malachodén- 
dron, and Virginica we have ever seen. ‘They were magnifi- 
cently in flower. ‘There is a handsome range of ayiaries, one 
of which contains a number of canary finches (Fringilla ca- 
naria), to some of which Mr. Baillie intends giving their 
liberty, with a view to naturalising them in the woods, agree- 
ably, as he mentioned, to the suggestions of Rusticus in Urbe. 
(Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 480.) 

The Pinetum at Dropmore occupies perhaps about four or 
five acres in the space more immediately allotted to that ob- 
ject ; but its boundaries are of an irregular form, and much 
broken; and in all the surrounding scenery various specimens 

s 4 


264 Pinetum at Dropmore. 


of this interesting tribe are introduced. ‘The collection was 
first commenced with some plants, raised from seeds received 
from New York about the year 1795 or 1796. Additions 
have ever since been continually making to it. The ground was 
naturally productive of heath and furze. Between two plant- 
ations composed chiefly of the common species of pines and 
firs, the collection is scattered over a surface of smooth turf, 
through which passes a winding gravel walk. Some of the 
trees, “though young, have alr eady taken very picturesque 
shapes. 

There is a very good plant of Araucaria imbricata, and two 
of Cunninghamza lanceolata; one of the latter raised from a 
cutting , which, left to itself, has sent up from the collar several 
stems “contending which shall take the lead; the other has 
a fine leading shoot. These plants are pr otected during win- 
ter by tempor ary coverings of mats and fern, which are opened 
to the south in fine days, and closed in severe weather. From 
observations carefully made during the last winter, it was found 
that these huts, or cases, nae entirely excluded the frost, even 
when most severe. 

Besides the species in the pinetum at Dropmore, Mr. Baillie 
states that there are a few specimens which have been raised 
from seeds, or otherwise obtained, but whose characters are 
not yet judged sufficiently distinct to assign to them their 
proper place in the catalogue. Pinus Pinea Sp peets & at pre- 
sent to be the produce of some seeds from Chile *, and Pinus 
Pinaster +, or maritima, of some from the interior of New 
South Wales. 

Of the species in the following list, Nos. 14. 19, 20, 21, 22. 
and 50. appear to suffer from the frost of our English winters, 
but have hitherto been preserved by the shelter of coverings 
formed nearly in the shape of bee-hives, and consisting of bent 
rods or poles of hazel or ash, over which are stretched two 
thicknesses of garden mats, including between them a wall and 
roof of dry fern, of about 6 or 8 inches in thickness. Some 
fern is also strewed over the roots in severe weather. ‘This 
cae is now about to be tried with Nos. 28, 29. 44. and 

No. 48., 4. imbricata, is believed to be quite hardy, but 
hae not yet been exposed here to the frost without protection. 
Nos. 49..and 52. are supposed to require being housed in the 
winter. The others have been found, or are known, to be. hardy. 


x The Pinus Pinea was introduced to Chile by the Spaniards. 

+ Some trees of the Pinus Pinaster have been introduced to the vicinity 
fof Sydney, New South Wales, and from these trees there is little doubt 
‘that the seeds were gathered from which the above was raised. 


Pinetum at Dropmore. 265 


List of the Species of Pinus, A’bies, Cédrus, Larix, Araucaria, Cunninghamia, and 
Dammara, composing the Pinetum at Dropmore. 


a os 


§ 1. Foliis geminatis. Leaves 
in pairs. (fig. 88.) 


Yearof 2s 8, 
2 introduct. 33 2 
235 s 9 SF 2 
5 3 6 4g ao Reference to published 
Systematic Name. English Name. Ss) a gia ES Ki aust ashie’ 
2 ‘~ 6 S8 288 : 
a Be ia] A oh B = aS. 
si a 
Z Sosa: Hom rcs 
~ * PINUS PINE TREE : ; 
1 sylvéstris L. wild, or Scotch Scotland se 30t0100 30 Lamb.pin.1. tab.1. (fig. 89. a) 
2 pumilio Jacq. dwarf wild Carniola 1779 .. , 6 10 Lamb pin.5, tab.2, 
pumilio var. ru- (dwarf wild red- 13 
briflora flowered et dade a rae Ne ote BYP ~ 
3 Laricio Potret Laricio, or Corsican Corsica 1814 1825 80 3 
4 uncinata Dec. hooked Pyrenees ... 1824 50 5 


1596 1824 60 Lamb.pin.9. tab.4, 5. (fig. 89. ) 


5 Pindster L. 


6 maritima Mill. S. Europe 1759 1821 40 Lamb.pin.13. tab.9,10. (fig.89.c) 
7 Pallaszana Lamb. Pallas’s Russia. ese 1821 50to60 12 4 2 

8 Pinea L. Pinea, or Stone S. Europe 1548 ... 40 18 Lamb.pin.11.tab.6,7,8. (sig.90.d) 
9 resindsa H. Kew. resinous N. Amer. 1736 1821 50 9 Lamb.pin.20. tab.14. (jig. 90. e) 


10 ptingens Lamb. prickly-leaved N. Amer. 1804 ... 60 20 Mich.arb.i. p.61. tab.5. 
11 Banksiana Lamb. Sir Joseph Banks’s Huds. Bay 1785 .... 12 24 Lamb.pin.7. tab.3. (fig. 89.) 
12 inops Hort. Kew. poor COO Lamb.pin.18. tab.13. (fig. 90. 
13 halepénsis Mii. Aleppo : ove Lamb.pin.15. tab.11. (jig. 90. 
14 Massonia@na Lamb. Masson’s hee 4 
ws 
\ \\\\ Wy 
WNW 


g)" 
h) 


ni 


\G 


266 Pinetum at Dropmore. 


§ 2. Foliis térnis. Leaves 
in threes. (jig. 91.) 


15 te‘da L. torch N. Amer. 1713 ... 30 29 Lamb.pin.23.tab.16,17.(fig.90.2) 
16 varidbilis Lamb. variable ©N. Amer. 1739 1821 60 8  Lamb.pin.22. tab.15. (fig. 90, i) 
11 serotina Mich. late N Amer. 1713 1821 60 7  Mich.arb. i. p.86. tab.7. 

18 rigida Mzu7. stiffleaved : N. Amer. 1759 ... 80 26 Lamb.pin.25.tab.18,19. (fig.92.2) 


19 paliistris Mzdd. swamp | N. Amer. 1730 1824 50 7  lLamb.pin.27. tab.20. (fig.92. m) 


Ss“ 
20 longifolia Lamb.  long-leaved E. Indies 1801 1822 90 8 lLamb.pin.29. tab.21.( fig. 92. 2) 
21 sinénsis Lamb. Chinese HaCooG aro. LHS iso 0 
22 canariénsisC.Smith Canary Canaries 1815 1822 40 8 Plant. rar. gen. c. ic. 
23 Intea Walt. yellow o0et00 «. 1821... 10 


§ 3. Folits quinis. Leaves 
in fives. (fig. 95.) 


24 Cémbra L. Cembra Siberia 1746 ... 50to60 24 Lamb.pin.34.tab,23,24. (fig.92.0) | 
25 Cémbrasibirica . Siberian-Cembra Siberia wee 1825 obe 1 7 S 

26 pygme‘a pygmy od3090 eee 1827 tee 3 , 

97 Strobus L. ' - Strobus,or Weymouth N. Amer. 1705 ... 100t0150 35 Lamb.pin.31. tab.22. (fig. 92. p) , 
28 excélsa Wallich lofty, or Bhotan Nepal 1823 1827 100 1 

29 occidentalisSwartz western eesene +. 1826 70t080 2 


§ 4. Polis fasciculatis perenndntibus. Leaves in bundles, 
and persisting. (fig. 94.) 


CEXDRUS CEDAR TREE i 
30 Lebani Z. Lebanon Levant 1683_1802 70to80 25 Lamb.pin.59. tab.37: (fig. 96. 9} 


§ 5. Folits fasciculatis dectduis. Leaves in bundles, and 
deciduous. (jig. 95.) 


; eS Lancy TREE 

1 europz a Dec. uropean Germany 1629 ... 80tol00 40 ©Lamb.pin.53. tab.35. . 96. 
32 microcarpa Lamb. small-coned N. Amer, 1760 1821 80 18 Lamb pin.58. tab37 oe ob 3 } 
33 péndula Lamb. weeping _N. Amer. 1739 1821 70 5  Lamb.pin.56. tab.36. (fig. 96. 3) 


Pinetum at Dyopmore. 267 


34 sibirica . Siberian Siberia 1786 1824 80 L 
35 datirica Fisch. Daurian Dauria coo ceo 2 


* Schubértia. disticha Mirb. Cupréssus disticha L., Two-rowed Schubertia, or Deciduous Cypress; 
North America; 30 ft. high. . 
+ Podocdrpus nicifer Pers., Nut-bearing Podocarpus; Japan; 20 ft. high. 
|| Podocdrpus macrophfllus, Long-leaved Podocarpus; China; 10 ft. high % 


rates three species are introduced to show the links which connect ,the fir tribe with other hardy 
oniterze. . 


§ 6. Folits angulitis, solitdriis, subulatis, spdrsis. Leaves angular, & 
solitary, awl-shaped, loose. (fig. 97. 


ABIES sees nae 
caine “Sie N-Burope 2548 10095 Lamb,pinsT.tab.25. (fg. 9.1) 
37 alba Hort. Kew. white Spruce . Amer. O00 8 35  T,amb,pin.39. tab.26. (fig. 99. 
38 nigra Hort. Kew. black Spruce N. Amer. 1700 ... 45 18 Tamib Seal tab27. we 99, Dy 
39 rubra Lamb. red Spruce N. Amer. 1755 ... 30 5 Lamb.pin.43. tab.28. (fig. 99, x) 
40 Clanbrassilzéna H.K. Ld. Clanbrassil’s meses ese 60s «6 2 tO3 =—t06 ki 98 
41 carpatica - Carpathian eT ec A SS 


§ 7. Polis solitariis, planis, subdistichis. Leaves 
‘nearly two-rowed. (fig. 98.) 


42 canadénsis H. Kew. Canadian N. Amer, 1736 ... 40t050 15 Lamb.pin.50. tab.32. tes y) 
43 pectinata Dec. comb-leaved, or Silver Germany 1603 ... 80 40 Lamb.pin.46, tab.30. (jig.99. x) 


Fo) 
2 


SS 
Lay 


ES 


w 


268 Pinetum at Dropmore. 


44 spectdbilisLamb. showy — cperen sono. LE EOD im 

45 bals’mea Mich. Balm of Gilead N. Amer. 1696 . 50 14 Lamb.pin.48. tab.31. (fig. 99. xz) 
46 Frastri Pursh Fraser’s Pennsyly. 1811 ... 30 2 

47 sibirica Siberian Siberia coe 1826 ave I 


§ 8. Conifer miscellanee. 


—~ ARAUCARIA | ARAUCARIA 
48 imbricata Pav. imbricated Chile Pine Chile 1796 1824 150 4 Lamb.pin. vol.ii. tab.4. (fig. 100. 
49 brasiliana Lamb. Brazil Pine soos ». 1825 100to150 2 Lamb.pin. vol.ii. tab.5. ( He 013 


50 excelsa Lamb, $1R¥, 0% Ners™KX Norfolk I. 1793 1887 180 8 ‘Lamb-pin. tab.39, 40. (jig. 102.) 


CUNNINGHA‘MI/4 _CUNNINGHAMIA 


51 sinénsis Brown Chinese seccee «. 1823 15to20 10 (fig. 89.aa, and fig. 103.) 
~ DA’MMARA DAE j 

2 n eastern, or Amboyna amb. pin. vol. ii. tab. 38. 
52 orientalis Lamb. } Ditcn Tree eee ve 1825 000) et ue aa 


The following species are all that are wanting to render the collection complete : — 
Pinus Lambertiéna Dougl. ; California; grows A’bies Thunbérgéz Lamb. ; Japan. 


215 feet high. F Abies orientalis Z.'; Levant. 
Abies taxifolia Lamb.; N.W. Coast of America. Larix Koempféré Lamb. ; Japan. 
Abies dumdsa Lamb. ; Nepal. ‘ Cédrus Deodara Roxb. ; Nepal and Thibet. 


. Arbies religidsa Kunth ; Mexico, ers Dammara australi .; New Z 
Abies hirtélla Kunth ; Mexico. i 5 « TAlisbame. 3 New Zcalane 


* ‘There are several other undescribed pines and firs, known partl i i 
aie FenorietonLearellers P 9 partly from dried specimens, and partly from 


FAforticultural Chemistry. 269 


Adjoining the pinetum, and winding through a pine wood, 
is a drive bordered with cedars, and leading to the above- 
mentioned avenue of that noble tree. 

In one part of the grounds an artificial elevation of earth 
and gravel has been raised, for the purpose of commanding an 
extensive and well wooded view. ‘This is faced and orna- 
mented with roots, and with stems of old beeches of a very 
picturesque form, already much clothed with flowering and 
other creepers. The work is still in progress, but even the 
present effect is striking. 

Many other things at Dropmore would require to be noticed, 
but our glance was too rapid to admit of more detailed recol- 
lections. For the lists of flowers and pines, and the observations 
on their culture and management, we are entirely indebted to 
Mr. Baillie ; who has been head-gardener at Dropmore for five 
years, and to whom it is but doing justice to state that every 
thing under his care was in the highest order and keeping. 


Art. II. Outlines of Horticultural Chemistry, &c. By G. 
W. Jounson, Esq., of Great Totham, Essex. | 


(Continued from p. 135.) 


However varying in the proportions, yet every soil is com- 
posed of silica, alumina, lime, magnesia, oxide of iron, salts, 
and animal and vegetable remains. ‘The most important con- 
sideration is, what proportions those are which constitute a 
fertile soil. The beau tdéal of a fertile soil is one which con- 
tains such a proportion of decomposing matter, as to keep the 
crop growing upon it always supplied with it in a state fit for 
introsusception, yet not so superabundantly as to render it too 
luxuriant, if the object in view is the production of seed : but, 
for the production of those plants whose foliage is the part in 
request, as spinach, or the production of edible bulbous roots, 
as onions, which have a small expanse of leaves, so as to be 
almost entirely dependent upon the soil for nourishment, there 
can scarcely be an excess of decomposed matter presented to 
their roots. Spinach, on rich soils, will yield successive cut- 
tings, the same as to asparagus: the latter, especially, demands 
abundant applications of nourishment to its roots ; since, like 
the onion, it has little foliage and slightly fibrous roots, at the 
same time that, like the spinach, it has to afford repeated 
cuttings, which, requiring a repeated developement of parts, 
need abundant food, and that in the immediate neigh- 


270 Horticultural Chemistry. 


bourhood. A soil with a just proportion of decomposing 
matter, which insures that it will be capable of absorbing 
moisture during the droughts of summer from the atmosphere, 
as the most fertile soils are always the most absorbent, yet. it 
must not be too retentive of moisture, which is the case in such 
soils as contain too much alumina; neither must it too easily 
part with it, which is a characteristic of those which contain 
an excess of silica. A subsoil of gravel mixed with clay is: 
the best, if not abounding in oxide of iron: for clay alone retains 
the moisture on the arable surface in too great an excess ; 
and sand on the contrary carries it away too rapidly. It is, 
however, evident ‘that to insure these desiderata in any soil, 
at all seasons, is impossible; and it is as manifest that a soil 
that would do so in one climate would fail in another, if the 
mean annual temperature of them should differ, as well as 
the amount in inches of rain which falls during the same 
period. Since, in the western parts of England, more than 
twice as much rain occurs as in the most eastern counties, or in 
the proportion of 42 to 19, a soil in the east of England, for 
any given crop, may be richer and more tenacious than the 
one required for it on the western coast. Alumina, or clay, 
imparts tenacity to a soil when applied ; silica, or sand, dimi- 
nishes that power; whilst chalk and lime have an interme- 
diate effect, they render heavy soils more friable, light soils 
more retentive. These simple facts are important; two neigh- 
bouring fields, by an interchange of soils, being often rendered 
fertile, which, before, were in the extremes of tenacity and 
porosity. From these statements it is evident that no univer- 
sal standard, or recipe, can be given for the formation of a 
fertile soil, but one whose constituents approach in their pro- 
portions to those of the following one cannot be unproductive 
in any climate. It is a rich alluvial soil, which Mr. Sinclair, 
in his invaluable Hortus Gramineus Woburnensis, gives as being 
the most fertile for the grasses. 

‘¢ Fine sand, 115; aluminous stones, 70; carbonate of 
lime, 23; decomposing animal and vegetable matter, 34; 
silica, 100; alumina, 28; oxide of iron, 13; sulphate of 
lime, 2; soluble vegetable and saline matter, 7; loss, 8. 
‘Total, 400.” 

_ I have already stated what chiefly constitutes a fertile soil ; 
it may be added that, to constitute one eminently such, its 
earthy particles must bein a minute state of division, the more 
so the more fertile will it be. In the above analysis 185 parts 
only were separable by sifting through a fine searce, 215 parts 
were impalpable; whereas poorer soils will often have 300 


Horticultural Chemistry. 271 


parts coarse matter to every 100 of finely pulverised consti- 
tuents. 

In affording warmth to plants, the earth is of considerable 
importance, and the power of accumulating and retaining it 
varies as much in soils as the proportions of their constituents. 
Sir Humphry Davy found that a rich black mould, containing 
one fourth of vegetable matter, had its temperature increased 
in an hour from 65° to 88° by exposure to the sunshine, whilst 
a chalk soil was heated only to 69° under similar circum- 
stances; but the first, when removed into the shade, cooled 
in half an hour 15°, whereas the latter lost only 4°. This 
explains why the crops on light-coloured tenacious soils are, 
in general, so much more backward in spring, but are retained 
longer in verdure during autumn, than those on black light 
soils; the latter attain a genial warmth the more readily, but 
part with it with equal speed. An experiment which I have 
often repeated upon light as well as tenacious soils with like 
success, demonstrates how greatly the colour of a soil influences 
the accumulation of heat. Coal ashes were sprinkled over 
half the surfaces of beds sown with peas, beans, &c., and.on 
these the plants invariably appeared above ground two or 
three days earlier, obviously on account of the increased 
warmth ; it being a well known fact that dark-coloured bodies 
absorb caloric more readily, and in larger proportions, than 
those of a lighter hue. 

Different plants affect different soils. Every gardener must 
have observed that there is scarcely a kitchen-garden but 
has some particular crop which it sustains in luxuriance far 
superior to any other garden in its neighbourhood, or to 
any other crop that can be grown in it. My own garden, 
without the preparation of an artificial soil, will not produce 
the common garden cress (Lepidium sativum), whilst the rasp- 
berry is remarkably luxuriant. That the composition of a soil 
has a main influence in these peculiarities is certain. The nettle 
haunts, as it were, the footsteps of man, and clings, as poetry 
might urge, in very sociality round his dwelling. This plant 
will not flourish but in a soil containing nitrate of potassa 
(saltpetre), a salt always abounding in the neighbourhood of 
walls and places where there is calcareous matter. The rabbit 
warrens near Mildenhall, in Suffolk, I have noticed frequently 
as abounding in nettles, yet it is a houseless waste of many 
miles’ extent; but, still, nitrate of potassa is furnished to the 
soil by the urine of the rabbits, which contains potassa and 
lime, in very considerable proportion. ‘These topics, however, 
belong more properly to a future. communication upon 


272 Culture of the Orange and Lemon. 5 
manures, which I shall next proceed to, because these in- 
gredients of soils are strictly artificial or adventitious... It is 
certain that a soil is often considered unproductive, and that 
unproductiveness attributed to some deficiency in its staple, 
which ‘is caused by erroneous management. I have before 
stated an instance of taprooted plants being produced of 
superior size and form, by means of applying the manure deep 
beneath the surface. In another instance, some parsneps being 
of necessity sown in a poor soil, having turned in some ma- 
nure by trenching full 12 in. deep, I would not allow any to 
be applied to the surface ; but, at the time of thinning, I set half 
the bed out at an average of 12 in. distance between each 
plant, the other half at 9in.: when taken up for storing, the 
whole were alike perfectly fusiform, but those grown at 
12 in. apart were the finest, as 43 to 3. If manure had been 
applied to the surface, the fibrous roots, I calculated, would ~ 
be multiplied at the expense of the caudex, to its much greater 
detriment, than by making the few usually produced by this 
root extend in length by enlarging the circuit of their pastur- 
age. Again, a more siliceous darker-coloured soil should be 
employed for the growth of an early crop of any given plant, 
than is required by the main crop; because such soil will 
more readily get rid of the superfluous moisture, and acquire 
a more genial warmth, two great desiderata for vegetation in 
early spring. On the contrary, in autumn, for a late crop of 
peas for instance, the soil should be more aluminous ; because, 
in August, September, &c., atmospheric moisture, in the form 
of night dews, abounds, the foliage is therefore perpetually 
subject to alternate extremes of moisture and dryness, whilst 
the root is liable to a state of exceeding drought: the soil, 
therefore, should be rich, kept in a minute state of division by 
frequent hoeing, that moisture may be absorbed, and more 
aluminous, that such moisture may be retained. 


(To be continued.) 


Art. III. On the Culture and Propagation of the Genus 
Citrus. By an AMATEUR. 
Sir, 

SHOULD you consider the following remarks relative to the 
culture and propagation of the genus Citrus, made from prac- 
tical observation, worthy of a place in your valuable Maga- 
zine, you will confer an honour upon me by inserting them. 


Culture of the Orange and Lemon. 278 


T have been induced to commit to paper such hints as I con- 
sider may prove beneficial to your readers, (and your readers, 
Ihave pleasure in observing, are not a few, ) from seeing in your 
September Number (p. 26.) a short communication on this sub- 
ject, entitled, “ An Account of a rapid and successful Mode 
of grafting the Orange, by Mr. James Reeve, Gardener to 
G. F. Evans, Esq., and Lady Carberry, Laxton Hall, North- 
amptonshire,” on which I have no wish whatever to animad- 
vert further than to say that, although his mode, compared 
with the mode of our ancestors of no very remote date, is a 
rapid one, yet it is not so rapid as that which Ihave myself put 
in practice, with the greatest success, for the last three or four 
years. 

As an amateur gardener, and one that has long had the 
greatest admiration for this beautiful and useful tribe of plants, 
I may, perhaps, have had more leisure, and greater opportu- 
nities, of making observations on their habits; of visiting the 
choicest collections now in this country ; and of learning from 
the able gardeners of the establishments where these plants 
are best looked aiter, the treatment of them; as such, Sir, I 
feel that I am not doing any injustice to Mr. Reeve in making 
the above observation on his communication, or in going fur- 
ther into the detail of their culture and propagation than he 
has thought fit to do. 

As far as Mr. James Reeve has gone, I can myself vouch 
for the success he has derived. That lemon stocks are pre- 
ferable to orange stocks, no one who has seen plants raised 
from one and the other can for a moment doubt; but lemon 
stocks may, and will, in one year be fit to receive grafts. 
Lemon seeds sown in January, and placed on the shelf of a 
green-house, with the assistance of a little forcing in a cucum- 
ber frame when two or three inches above the ground, and 
two shiftings into small pots in the course of the year, will 
afford excellent stocks for the January following. My system 
is to make a common hot-bed of dung, over which a cucum- 
ber frame is placed early in that month, into which are plunged 
my stocks of one year’s growth; in about a fortnight’s time 
the sap will have run well, when I prepare my scions, much 
in the same manner as Mr. Reeve describes, and engraft 
either by whip, cleft, or crown grafting, as my fancy, or the 
diameter of my scions, may lead me. I then plunge them in 
the same hot-bed, and even in the same places they stood in 
before engrafting. In a fortnight or three weeks the grafts 
will have taken; and a little discretion, as to taking off the 
clay, bass, &e. &c., will only be required to secure the plants 


Vou. III.— No. 11. T 


274 Culture of the Orange and Lemon. 


in perfect health and vigour. By this method I have had an 
orange tree, which was engrafted in January, standing on a 
drawing-room table in March and April, with thirty-two blos- 
soms upon it. This is done by taking a scion on which 
incipient bloom is perceived. : 

The great advantage to be derived from taking the earliest 
period of the year for this operation will, independently of 
the time gained, be found to be twofold: 1st, the stock is 
readily made to advance the scion in vegetation, a matter of 
most necessary importance; and, 2dly, should the graft fail, 
the stock, for two or three times over, may be employed for 
other scions. With this view, I take care not to cut down 
my stocks lower than within five or six inches of the surface 
of the mould. 

This method will be found to have gained one year in ad- 
vance of Mr. Reeve’s method. What, then, shall we say to 
a method of raising orange trees even more rapid than this ? 
It is as follows: — Cuttings of the Madras citron are well 
known, by the most scientific cultivators of these plants, to afford 
the best stocks for every species of the orange tribe. A single 
cutting, put into a small pot in January, the bottom part, or 
end of the cutting, being made to touch the shards placed 
below the mould in the pot, and plunged into a common hot- 
bed of dung, will, by March or April, be found sufficiently 
rooted and grown generally to allow of a scion being engrafted 
upon it. The rank nature, if I may be allowed the expression, 
of the stock, will give prodigious vigour to the graft, and, in 
less than six months from the time of putting the cutting into 
the pot, a more beautiful and luxuriant-growing tree will be 
gained in this manner, than will be gained by Mr. Reeve’s 
method in two years, or my own method in one year. I saw 
the effect of this experiment last spring. It had been tried, 
with the fullest success, by a most able and experienced gar- 
dener, whose skiil in the management of this tribe of plants, 
of which his employer has a rare collection, far exceeds any 
thing of the kind which has yet come to my knowledge. 

The old system of propagating orange trees in this country 
we all know to have been by budding. It is at this time the 
universal practice of the French and the Italians. The pro- 
cess is an exceedingly tedious one. ‘The plants are never 
well shaped or handsome, nor can we by this method get those 
beautiful little dwarf-blooming ornaments to our drawing- 
rooms and the front rows of our conservatories, so much to 
be admired. Should we, however, require large trees, and 
such as will yield us fruit for the table, I am of opinion we 


Culture of the Orange and Lemon. 275 


cannot do better than submit still to the bungling method of 
Italy, and procure from Malta, Genoa, or Nice, or even from 
the Italian warehouses in London, some of the plants im- 
ported annually to this country for sale. The best and most 
healthy plants I have been able to procure in London have 
been from the warehouse of Mr. Hill in Piccadilly, and the 
sorts I should recommend for use are the Sweet China Orange 
(Portogallo dolce da China), and the Blood Orange (Porto- 
gallo di Malta). The Egg Orange and the Sweet Mandarin 
‘come, I believe, only from Malta. The Maltese use the word 
Arancio, and not Portogallo, for the orange. Of lemons, the 
Limone incomparabile, the Limone dolce, the Limone dolce 
di Roma, and the Limone di cera rosso, are the best; and of 
citrons, the Madras, the Madeira, and the Sweet-scented. Of 
limes, the Sweet and Sour, the Pompoleon, the Shaddock, 
- &c. &c., are all worthy of culture. At some future time I 
may have it in my power to send you a list of the varieties of 
this abundant genus. ‘The trees, or rather sticks, bought in 
London, will be found to thrive rapidly by soaking them in 
milk-warm water for five or six hours, then planting them in 
pots, disproportionately small, filled with good maiden earth 
and vegetable mould, and plunging them into moist heat. If 
the sticks are become very dry and hardened by the voyage, 
-it will be well to -bind them round with wet moss, and so 
leave them, wetting the moss daily with warm water, till they 
have shot forth. 

The citrons, lemons, shaddocks, and limes will be found 
easier to propagate than the oranges. Of the latter, the Man- 
darins, sweet, bitter, and flat; the Tangerine; and the Myrtle- 
leaved are the most difficult to secure in engrafting. The 
China, the Seville, the Bloody, and-the Box-leaved seldom 
fail. “The Sweet Lemons, Forbidden Fruit, and all the above 
named coarser sorts, will be found to grow readily from cut- 
tings, and make handsome plants. Oranges do not grow. 
readily from cuttings; and my rule, therefore, has been to 
raise them by engrafting, giving the whole of my stocks to 
them, while I have propagated the coarser sorts by cuttings. 

How much might be said in reprehension of the treatment 
of the old collections of orange trees in this country, all in- 
variably of the bitter sorts, and therefore comparatively use- 
less ; how the trees have ceased for years to increase in size or 
beauty; how they have been annually injured by being placed 
in the open air during the summer, either exposed 10 1 a broil- 
ing sun, or set under ine drip of fir trees, &c. &c. Some have 
imagined that orange trees thrive best in winter, when placed 

ee 


276 Culture of the Orange and Lemon. 


in a green-house, without light from above, and have built 
orange houses on that construction. Do they suppose the 
plant, i in its native country, enjoys not vertical heat and light ? 
The fact is, they do not ¢hrive in such a situation; they ae 
and that only; and following up the system of placing them 
out of doors during the summer, they can only be said to 
thrive, or exist, in such houses during winter, from the cir- 
cumstance of the temperature of those houses being more con- 
genial to them at that season, than the either too hot or too 
damp temperature of our summer climate. ‘The large orange 
trees in tubs of Paris and Versailles are treated in this man- 
ner, and what a number of years have they been arriving 
at their present size! They are, however, so far better 
managed than our own, in as much as they are never allowed 
to set their fruit, and are as much, as often, and as neatly 
pruned (clipped) as an English quickset hedge, or a yew tree 
cut into the form of a peacock, and therefore they very much 
resemble these objects. That they are fine trees and large we 
must allow, but their chief beauty and their utility is alte- 
gether destroyed. The spreading elegance of the orange 
branch, the delicious scent of the orange blossom, the oe 
teous colour and exquisite flavour of the orange fruit, are not 
allowed to unfold their treasures to the worthy and ‘asteful 
inhabitants of Paris and Versailles. 
In order to have orange and lemon trees in perfection in 
this country, they must have a house of glass, and in that 
house they must remain throughout the year. More air than 
they will require may be given to them by opening the top 
lights ; and, with the exception of a few vines, which may be 
trained to the rafters, they should have the house to them- 
selves. ‘The back wall will afford the best situation for 
lemons, citrons, &c. &c.; and these should be planted in the 
earth, and not kept in pots or tubs. ‘The orange trees will 
thrive best in pots or tubs, which should be small, in pro- 
portion to their heads, as I find the plants have invariably 
thriven best when their roots have come in contact with the 
sides of the pots. ‘The best soil for them is about two-thirds 
of maiden loam to one of vegetable earth, manured with the 
‘scrapings of the pigsty, or saturated with water of pigeon 
dung. They require much water, frequent washing of the 
foliage, and steaming, with occasional watering with liquid ma- 
nure. ‘The marerymen in the neighbourhood of London are 
said to recommend bog earth as the best soil for them. The 
general appearance of ‘their trees, however, if they adopt that 
plan, would prove that it is not the soil in which they most 


Destroying the Red Spider. 277 


delight ; for, except the fine collection lately made by Mr. 
1g é ry y 
Knight, of the King’s Road, Chelsea, there is not an orange 
or lemon tree in the nursery gardens near Londen that is not 
a disgrace to the collection. 

I am, Sir, &c. 
Woodstock, Sept. 10. 1827. AN AMATEUR. 


Arr. IV. On destroying the Red Spider in Hot-houses. By 
Mr. Davin Cameron, A.L.S., Gardener to Robert Bar- 
clay, Esq., F.L.S. H.S., Bury Hill, Surrey. 


ALLow me to inform you of my method of destroying the 
red spider in the plant stoves here, which is very simple, and 
probably may already be known to you. I take a quarter 
of a pound of flour of sulphur, mix it in a common-sized 
watering-pot of water, and pour the mixture along the top of 
the flues when the fires are at work, putting least near the 
furnace and most at the farther extremity, through a coarse 
rose, when the sulphur will be found to have run down the 
sides of the flues, and adhered to them, as well as upon the 
top. ‘The sulphureous exhalation arising from the hot flues 
generally destroys the spider in five or six days, when a good 
syringing will clear the plants of them; but the house is 
neither steamed nor syringed from the time the sulphur is 
put on till they are killed. When too much sulphur is put 
on, I reduce the quantity, by pouring water along the flues ; 
and, if too little, by going over them again with the mixture. 
By this method the stove is kept free from the spider during 
the winter months. ‘They only begin to do injury towards 
autumn, when they are stopped from doing farther injury as 
soon as the fires are lighted for the season. The same method 
is practised at Messrs. Loddiges’, by brushing over the steam- 
pipes with sulphur. Vineries and peach houses might be 
completely cleared of the red spider in the same way before 
the foliage comes out, because then the sulphur might be put 
on much stronger, without doing any injury; which it cer- 
tainly would, if put on too strong, where there is tender 
foliage in the house. Tam, Sir, &c. 

Davin CaMERON. 
Bury Hill Gardens, Oct. 2. 


278 American and other Blights. 


Art. V. On the Destruction of the American Blight on Frut 
Trees. By Mr. Cuaries Suarp, of Ross., 
Sir, 

Havine read in vol. ii. p. 49. of your excellent Magazine, 
an account of some attempts made use of by one of your cor- 
respondents to destroy the A*phis lanigera, or American 
blight, for the information of your numerous readers, I beg to 
state, that last year I had two Codlin trees so much infected, 
that immediately after the blossom appeared nearly all the 
leaves fell off. I directly procured some hot-lime, over which 
I poured boiling water, and washed them with a thick solu- 
tion. Ina short time an alteration was evidently observable, 
and the midsummer shoots, which followed soon after, were 
finer than I had ever remarked them before. This spring I 
not only had the two trees alluded to, but the whole in my 
garden, about thirty in number, whitewashed up to the fork, 
and the result of this experiment is that, notwithstanding the 
severe blight with which we have been visited in this country, 
T have never had so abundant a crop of fruit, nor seen my trees 
in so healthy a condition. I am, Sir, Xc. 

CHARLES SHARP. 
fioss, Herefordshire, July 14. 1827. 


Art. VI. On the Blight and Fire-blast on Fruit Trees. By 
Mr. Rosert SuTHERLAND, Gardener to J. F. N. Halsey, 
Esq-, Gaddeston Park, Hertfordshire. 

Sir, 

I rutnk there is nothing so destructive to a fruit-garden as 
blights, nor is there any thing in the business of gardening 
which requires more of our serious attention, than to endea- 
vour to guard against this great enemy to gardeners. 

Before proceeding to suggest a remedy for this evil, it will 
be necessary, first, to understand the true causes of blights ; 
for, although many curious persons have attempted to explain 
these causes, yet very few of them have come near the truth. 

Blights are often caused by a continued, dry, easterly wind, 
for several days together, without the intervention of showers, 
or any morning dew. By this the transpiration in the tender 
blossoms is stopped, so that in a short time their colour is 
changed, and they wither and decay ; and, if it so happen that 
there is a long continuance of the same weather, it equally 


Blight on Fruit Trees. a 279 


affects the tender leaves; for their transpirable matter is 
thereby thickened, and rendered glutinous, closely adhering 
to the surface of the leaves, and becoming a proper nutriment 
to small insects, which are always found preying upon the 
leaves and tender branches of fruit trees whenever this blight 
appears. But it is not, as some suppose, those insects which 
are the cause of blights, though it must be allowed that, when- 
ever they meet with such suitable food as a blighted tree fur- 
nishes, they multiply exceedingly, and are instrumental in 
ageravating the disease. 

The remedy for this description of blight which I have yet 
found to succeed best, is to well wash over the trees daily with 
the softest water that can be procured, rain-water, if possi- 
ble, mixed with a little dung water; a small quantity of sul- 
phur being mixed in the water, previous to using it, and the 
operation performed as early as possible in mild mornings. 
If the young plants are much infected, wash them carefully with 
a sponge, so as to free them from glutinous matter. Another 
cause of those blights, which prove most destructive to fruit in 
the spring where no precautions ‘are used, is the sharp frosts 
which happen when the blossom and young fruit is in danger ; 
for every gardener knows that at this season we often find a 
hot sun after very frosty nights. ‘The best remedy I find for. 
this evil, is to wash the frost all off the trees before the sun 
gets on them; by so doing, I have found no bad effects from 
sharp frosts. 

Other blights prevail from inward weakness and distempers 
in trees, occasioned from a want of sufficient nourishment to 
maintain them in perfect vigour, or from some ill qualities in 
the soil where they grow; or perhaps from some bad. quality 
in the stocks, on which the trees are grafted; or perhaps from 
some constitutional distemper in the buds or scions of the 
parent tree; or from many other evils which trees are subject 
to. If the soil be a hot burning gravel or sand, you will find 
this will be constantly the case, after their roots have got be- 
yond the earth of the borders. In such cases it is better to 
change the sort of trees for such as the soil suits better. 

There is another kind of blight that sometimes proves very 
destructive to both fruit and forest trees, in orchards and open 
plantations, and against which I should be glad to find a 
remedy. ‘This is what is called the fire-blast ; an evil which 
in a few hours destroys the fruit and leaves, and sometimes 
the whole tree. ‘The fire-blast is supposed to be effected 
by volumes of transparent flying vapours, which, among the 
many forms they assume, may sometimes approach so near 

YB 


280 Uses of Rhubarb Stalks. 


to a hemisphere or semi-cylinder, either in the upper or 
lower surfaces, as thereby to make the sun’s rays converge so 
much, as to scorch the plants or trees they fall upon. I have 
observed those white clouds which appear in summer, acting 
as if they were so many mirrors, and occasioning excessive 
heat in particular places, and also a kind of hollow clouds full 
of hail and snow, during the continuance of which the heat 
was extreme; after this came a sharp cold, and then the clouds 
discharged their hail in great quantities, to which succeeded a 
moderate warmth. Frozen concave clouds, therefore, are the 
cause both of a vigorous heat and a succeeding cold; and such 
sudden changes, it is evident, must be very injurious to trees 
and plants of all kinds. Against this enemy to gardeners, I 
know of no remedy, and therefore leave it to some abler per- 
son than, Sir, &c. 

Rospert SUTHERLAND. 
Gaddeston Park, Hertfordshire, 

January 31. 1827. 


ee ZS Soe 


Art. VII. On the various Uses of Rhubarb Stalks. By 
Mr. James Luckcocx, of Edgbaston, near Birmingham. 


Mr. Lucxcocx refers to the Monthly Magazine for Septem- 
ber 1817, August 1818, and November 1819, for what he has 
said on the culture of rhubarb; he complains that the plant 
is not treated of in the third edition of Nzcol’s Kalendar, but 
in Mr. Nicol’s time the plant was little attended to; and he 
states that he has three sorts of which he knows the name of 
only one, called the Turkey Rhubarb, Rheum palmatum. The 
produce of this, according to his account, is much less than 
that of the other two sorts, which, from sketches he has sent 
us, are obviously some of the hybrid entire-leaved varieties. 
Offering Mr. Luckcock our best thanks for his communication, 
we give the following extract from it, as the most likely to 
interest our readers : — A 

Since the publication of the documents in the Monthly 
Magazine, the increase of produce and demand in this neigh- 
bourhood has been twenty-fold, perhaps fifty; and I feel a 
proud gratification, when I am sometimes told that this in- 
‘crease has probably been chiefly owing to my statements. This 
has induced me to continue my observations, and to endeavour 
to point the public attention to its various merits. I need not 
appeal to the experience of others for its delicious flayour, but 
I can, from long attention, pronounce it to be equal to the 


An Orchard in Miniature. 981 


choicest of our fruits in its effects on the human frame during 
the sultry months of the summer, being cooling, and slightly 
cathartic. I cannot recommend a more palatable or wholesome 
article, and more especially if taken cold in hot weather, than 
the pies we use in our family. With a little yeast put into 
the crust, we have it light and porous, about an inch or an inch 
and half thick. ‘This I believe to be the only kind of pastry 
that is good for the stomach, and decidedly so for that of an 
‘invalid; and there are few constitutions so feeble or delicate, 
but what may freely partake of it without any fear of bilious 
consequences, or of any flatulence or indigestion. It continues 
its produce in the gardens from the beginning of May to the 
end of August, and has another great advantage, that it 
will make an excellent preserve for the winter. It should not, 
however, be suffered to grow too old before it is cut; like 
every other vegetable, there is a point in its age when it is at 
its highest perfection. We cut it into squares, put it on a pan 
in single layers, and then place it in an oven so moderate in 
its heat, as to require about twelve hours for the process; it 
should have a very small portion of its moisture left ; and then 
we put it into wide-monthed bottles, with about a fifth or a 
‘sixth part of its weight of brown sugar. If, in the course of 
a day or two, the dissolving of the sugar produces a small 
supply of liquid, the quantity of moisture is right, and by fre- 
quently shaking the bottle for a week or two, the article will 
be good for use, till the gardens give their next supply. The 
bottles should be covered with bladder. 

I had supposed, from the great quantity of liquid con- 
tained in rhubarb stalks, that it might supply a new cider, 
but find, on trial, that it contains so little of any saccharine 
matter, that it will not ferment. I, however, made some wine 
from the juice without any water, and have a few bottles left 
of ten years’ vintage, and it is really very good; but, like all! 
the home-made wines, it is neither more nor less than sugar 
wine, seasoned with the flavour which gives the name. 

Edgbaston, near Birmingham, James Luckcock. 

July 23. 1827. 


eee 


Art. VIII. An Orchard in Miniature ; or, the Culture of 
Apple Trees as Dwarf Standards, after the Manner of Goose- 
berry Bushes. By Matus. 

Sir, 
OzseRVING in your Magazine for September Mr. Harri- 
son’s method of growing apples against a wall, allow me to 


282 An Orchard in Miniature. 

obtrude my simple mode of growing them in open quarters, 
upon dwarf trees, which I have followed about seven years, 
the last three of which have successively strengthened my 
conviction of its utility. ue 

By planting the proper sorts, apples may be grown in as 
small a space of ground as gooseberries ; and a small or large 
square, according to the size of families, appropriated to 
apples, will grow every year enough to supply their wants. I 
am not vain enough to think that I am alone in growing them 
in this way, as I should think horticultural economy would 
prompt many besides myself to gratify their eyes, their pockets, 
and their appetites, in so easy a way. 

Like most practicalists, I should, perhaps, find it much 
easier to fe// and show than to write what I mean; but “I will 
do my best,” as the author of Ivanhoe makes Hubert say; for 
my grandfather, though he did not draw a bow, drew a knife. 

I have my ground, a strong clay, trenched 2 ft. deep in 
December: as soon as it is settled, say a fortnight after 
trenching, taking advantage of a frosty morning, the holes 
are opened and left for the frost to meliow. February is 
the best month for planting on heavy ground: by that time 
the earth taken from the holes will be in a fine pulverised 
state. ‘The holes need not be very large ; 2 ft. over, and 13 ft. 
deep‘ will be enough. With some rich loose soils there 
will be no occasion for trenching; but then the holes 


must be larger, say 3 ft. over and 2 ft. deep. The plants 
must be 6 ft. apart every way. I arrange mine in quincunx. 
(jig. 104.) With a 6-feet mea- 104 


suring-stick this is done with 
scarcely any trouble. I really 
do not know any sight more 


patio aNiy taal scag ema aha lod eo 
Se ake, ee Ales ete aes 
Baniiyp Gav oet Wc Mb roempena g(a 


pleasing to a domestic mind (for 
what fruit contributes more to 
our comfort than the apple ?) 
than this orchard in miniature, 
when covered with bloom, and 
again when laden with fruit, as 
they seldom miss bearing in 
abundance. 


This plan will not extend to — 


Gera rie a yney sever ae 
Sq eaten wage sar cee Oe 
ee yl ae ES 3 Pare ye ck hep eee 
BEC Ned Oe. Sie ae iSite Vette 
Demise Seen Sabena geo! Oe 
CEVA a eM NDame  Dekelo gy: oe 
22s pe opi anmnhp nat ine 


the strong-growing sorts, as they are not easily kept within 
bounds; but the following six will amply repay the trouble 
and trifling expense of planting. I have placed them in the 
order of their ripening. Manks’s Codlin, Hawthornden, 
Kerry Pippin, Downton Pippin, Christie’s Pippin, and the 


On Putting Apples. 283 


Old Golden Pippin; to which may be added Coe’s Golden 
Drop, a most excellent late table apple. The trees must 
be chosen with stems not exceeding 1 ft. 6 in. In Sep- 
tember I generally look over the trees, take off superfluous 
wood, and shorten the long shoots; this strengthens the 
bloom buds which are formed abundantly upon the young wood 
of all the sorts named: of course, in doing this, an eye must be 
had to the formation of the tree, which ought to be gradually 
brought into a handsome round bush. For the first five years, 
a row of strawberries may be grown between each row of 
apples, or any other dwarf light crop; but strawberries are 
most in keeping, a word which, in every gardening operation, 
ought never to be lost sight of. Let me add, they ought to be 
worked on Paradise stocks, or the small wild crab, (mine are 
on the last,y not by any means on the free stock raised from 
apple pips, the very worst stock that can be used. 

Now this cacoethes scribendi is upon me (it is a wet day), 
allow me a little more space, merely to give you one of the 
best recipes for keeping hares and rabbits from apple trees. I 
write from experience ; for, till I used it, I had annually a great 
many trees destroyed in spite of every precaution. ‘Take the 
commonest train oil and hog’s lard (if stale it can be bought 
cheaper), mix them well, till they are of the consistence of 
thick paste, which the mixture will much resemble, and apply 
it rather sparingly with a painter’s brush. This will effectually 
keep off those destructive vermin, and not injure the tree, as 
the lard neutralises the pernicious effects of the oil. 

Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 
October 10. Matus. 


Art. 1X. Note of the Result of an Experiment made at Bret- 
ton Hall on pitting Apples. In a Letter to Mr. Donald, of 
Woking. By Mr. Roserr Marnocx, Foreman of the 
Kitchen-garden at Bretton Hall. Communicated by Mr. 
Donald, F.H.S. 


Sir, 

Havine an uncommonly large crop of apples here last 
season, we adopted your plan of keeping them (Gard. Mag., 
vol.i. p. 268.), by putting them in pits in autumn, where they 
remained all winter, until taken up a few days since; and they 
still retain the same degree of hardness as when pulled from 


284 Culture of Timber Trees. 


the trees, which of course is not the case with those kept upon 
shelves. 

The following are the sorts we kept in this way, and their 
condition when taken out: — The Ribston pippin, rotted one 
tenth; Red streaks, three fourths; Flowery town, one sixth ; 
Royal russet, one eighth; Golden pippin, one sixth; Mount 
house, one tenth; Red Robin, none. We have still a few of 
the Blackman apple, the produce of 1825, in good preserv- 
ation: they are kept in a jar amongst dry sand. 

I am, Sir, &c. 
Rogpert Marnock. 
Bretton Hall, near Waketeld, 
March 31. 1827. 


Arr. X. On the Cultivation and Management of Timber 
Trees. By QuERcus. 


Sir, 

ALLow me to impress on the minds of landed proprietors, 
and managers of woods and plantations, the necessity of 
studying the cultivation of timber as a science. We see very 
little attention paid to the arrangement of the different sorts 
of forest trees in planting, whether it regards the different 
soils to be planted, the situation, or the effect to be produced 
in regard to landscape scenery ; and if knowledge be wanting 
in the above cases, we see a still greater want of it displayed 
in the management of plantations, in regard to thinning, 
pruning, &c. It would be almost impossible to lay down a 
universal rule for the management of plantations, but there are 
certainly fundamental principles to be acted upon in the cul- 
tivation of forest trees. 

The thinning of plantations is a matter of great importance, 
in regard to shelter, appearance, &c. ‘To make all the trees 
stand as much as possible in the angles of equilateral triangles, 
or, in other words, in quincunx, is one rule that should never 
be lost sight of, for it is evident more shelter will be afforded 
from trees standing in triangular positions than in squares or 
rows: besides, the above method disposes the trees regu- 
larly over the ground, in respect to their nourishment. 
How often does the woodman, for the sake of leaving a good 
tree, as he calls it, leave two trees within a few feet of 
each other, at least so near, that the one is crushing the other, 
and cuts away a third, that should have remained as a per- 


Culture of the British Oak. 285 
manent tree. The reason he assigns for so doing is, he wishes 
to leave the best trees, that is, the largest, not considering 
that the small tree, if it had a good leading shoot, and was 
otherwise a well formed tree, is Jikely to make as good a tree 
at a future period as the one he has left, or perhaps better. 
I have seen many plantations disfigured by the above method 
of thinning, besides the loss to the proprietor. In the course 
of practice in thinning plantations, especially when under 
thirty years of age, I have never hesitated to cut down a larger 
tree than the one next to it, if by so doing I got my trees to 
stand in a more regular form, and the smaller tree was equally 
healthful. By following such a method of thinning, there is 
more to be made of thinnings, besides managing the plant- 
ation in a way for its future welfare. 

Pruning of woods and plantations is another important part 
of their culture; but that subject would make my letter too 
long. I will therefore defer it at this time, hoping the cul- 
tivation of timber will become more a professional pursuit. 

I am, Sir, &c. 
October 13. 1827. QUERCUS. 


Arr. XI. The falling Fortunes of the English Oak defended. 
By Quercus SEcuNnDUs. 
Sir, 

AFTER some few years of compassionate consideration, I 
am induced to take up my pen to support the falling fortunes 
of an old favourite, and which has been, and ought to be, a 
national one —the old English oak. It is astonishing how 
much the planting of this very valuable tree has decreased of 
late, owing to various wiseacres asserting that, in consequence 
of after removing, and necessarily shortening its taproot, it 
would never make timber: and then they recommend plant- 
ing acorns in fields, so as to have woods of oak alone; but 
these said woods I have never yet seen raised in this manner. 
Now, my object for troubling you is to combat this opinion, 
which has gained a vast deal of ground, and to show that the 
oak will grow with as much luxuriance as the larch, ¢. e. com- 
paratively, and with a soil not decidedly unfavourable. I live 
in the neighbourhood of some fine plantations of about thirty 
years’ growth, one third of which is oaks, and such oaks as 
are never seen in common oak woods, where they have risen 
from acorns, and are evidently indigenous to the soil, gene- 


286 Culture of the British Oak. 


rally gnarled, and branching low down the stem. These, on 
the contrary, have fine clear boles, 20 to 30 ft. before branch- 
ing. I have taken the girths of a great number, and find 
they average 2 ft. 3in., 5 ft. from the ground. The average 
girths of the same number of larch, spruce, firs, and. beech, 
which I consider the best nurses for the oak, were about 3 ft. 
Now this difference is really so trifling, that I felt much sur- 
prised and pleased to find this most proverbial of slow-growing 
trees so close upon the heels of its neighbours, so notoriously 
opposite in their habits. The elm averaged the same as the 
spruce and larch, but one or two fine thrifty ones were full 
4 ft: in girth. I also met with one oak 3 ft. 9in., the same 
height from the ground. 

These oaks have all been nursed by the larch, spruce, and 
beech, which are gradually taken away, to give the oaks room. 
While they are on the ground, they serve for a game pre- 
serve; when they are cleared off, the ground may be thrown 
open for pasture, or underwood may be introduced, without 
injury to the oaks, as they root so deeply. 

It will perhaps be supposed that the soil upon which I have 
taken my observations is peculiarly rich; but when I say that 
it is a hazel sandy loam, with a substratum of loose gravel and 
sand, you will appreciate its quality. To add to my conviction 
that the oak requires nursing, hard by the before-mentioned fine 
specimens are some poor solitary trees, which, with the same 
soil, scarcely rear their drooping heads more than 10 or 12 ft., 
and yet they have had the same care, z. e¢. large holes were 
dug for them, they were kept clean, &c.; but they will not 
grow freely. In planting oaks the proportion ought to be 
thus: 3000 trees per acre, at about 4 ft. asunder; of these 
1000 should be oaks, 1000 larch, 500 spruce, and 500 beech. 
The three last will all be valuable in their turns, as they are 
gradually felled, for rails, &c., and will amply repay the 
planter ; leaving, I will say, 800 oaks, allowing the loss of 200 
for casualties, These, again, will require thinning before 
being finally left to make large timber. How fine the pros- 
pect of five or ten acres covered with straight, tall, thrifty 
oaks, I need not say; for every Englishman will, I hope, 
appreciate it. ‘The oaks, of which I have given the girths, 
were all transplanted. Were I asked for advice as to plant- 
ing, I should say, plant larch, spruce, and beech, 23 to 3 ft. 
high, for, if smaller, they generally suffer from hares and rab- 
bits; and oaks 3% to 4 ft. high, twice transplanted, and well 
rooted; for upon this more than any thing success depends. 


Various Matters by Agronome. 287 


The oaks, in particular, should be stout and clean, not drawn 
up in a crowd, and, in consequence, weak and spindly. 

In this way, on the most moderate soils, fine plantations of 
oak may be raised with certainty. With the present pre- 
judice against removing and shortening the taproot, we shall 
have old England a plantation of firs, instead of its ancient 
bulwark, the Quércus robur, which truly may be said to be 
salus patria. 

Should this be thought worthy a place in your Magazine, 
I may perhaps again trouble you about plants and planting. | 

I am, Sir, &c. 
October, 1827. Quercus SEcUNDUS. 


Art. XII. How to conduct a Gardener’s Magazine, and other 
Matters. By AGRoNoME. 


Dear Sir, 

Havine a leisure hour or two this evening, which, by the 
by, I very seldom have at this time of the year, I have con- 
cluded to scribble over a sheet of your paper. What the 
subject may be is more than I can say at present. I have 
been thinking that you have a very difficult as well as un- 
pleasant task, conducting a work like the Gardener’s Magazine. 
No doubt you are very anxious to encourage all your cor- 
respondents by inserting all their productions, however silly 
or ridiculous ; and, on the other hand, very careful of insert- 
ing any thing but what may be of real use to the public; and 
most of your correspondents, though they may be old gar- 
deners, may be but very young authors, such as your humble 
servant, who, whatever figure he may cut in a field of cabbage, 
may be very inferior in the field of fame, or the pages of your 
miscellany. I write this very feelingly, conscious of my great 
imperfections, and think how much I could mend the letters 
I have already written; but, like the generality of tradesmen 
nowadays, I will rather write new things, than try to mend 
the old. My want of education, particularly that branch of 
education called belles lettres, is a woeful drawback ‘to an as- 
piring author. All the compensation I can make for such 
deficiency is, that if I am not very polite or gocd mannered, 
I shall always be particularly good humoured. I shall not 
take the smallest offence at whatever you may think of me, or 
whatever your correspondents may say of me. ‘“ There must 
be such as me to be of all sorts;” and if I ramble out of my 


288 Various Matters by Agronome. 


latitude sometimes, still such rambles are the rambles of a gar- 
dener, and your Magazine will show to future generations 
what sort of gardeners existed in the beginning of the nine- 
teenth century. And no doubt you have a Balaam-box, like 
the famous Christopher North, which you will occasionally 
have to empty, for fear of bursting the hinges; and then what 
a great sacrifice you will make to the god Stupidity: the 
smoke of your burnt-offering may be a good antidote for the 
blight on your fruit trees. Yes, Sir, I dare say this very sheet 
will help to make a blaze in your bonfire. I, however, ob- 
serve that you have a great personal advantage over all of us, 
your correspondents. You are like a father confessor amongst 
us; we tell you all our little secrets, which may never be worth 
telling to the public. Sometimes I think it would be just as 
well if we were to confess once a month, instead of once in 
two months; and, also, that you should only charge 2s. 6d. 
instead of 3s. 6d. for the Magazine; as then, I think, every 
gardener in the kingdom, including journeymen and appren- 
tices, would take it in; or, if any refused to take it in, they 
should be kept in the back ground for ever: it would only 
amount to about a penny per day, and the new articles would _ 
be a good month’s amusement, and the work would be va- 
luable for ever. Besides, a monthly magazine would coincide 
with gardening particularly: you could give the state of 
Covent Garden market every month, and we could give you 
the state of the country crops. The work would be a com- 
plete kalendar; and if you fear the want of correspondents 
or contributors, I can help you to two or three, under differ- 
ent signatures, till better cast up. I suppose several of my 
letters to you have been sent by the blind carrier, as the say- 
ing is. Not wishing to give my real name at present, even to 
you, I sent my letters to different postoffices, and some by 
the guards of certain coaches, who, being handsomely paid, 
promised to take them within a few yards of the publishers’ 
door; but having heard nothing of them, I conclude they are 
lost. I make no duplicates; but one, I remember, was on 
Sree-trade, and another on garden libraries and iron hot-houses. 
If you have not seen them, I shall again write on these sub- 
jects; but I intend to change my name, as several of my 
friends say they have found me out in Agronome; even my 
employers have told me that they think they see my hand- 
writing in the Magazine! I assured them, with all the sang 
froid | was master of, that I was not the author (of Waverley). 
I signed one letter Robin Roughhead. Well, Sir, as I said 
before, every gardener would take in the monthly magazine 


% 


Various Matters by Agronome. 289 


at 2s. 6d., if he had any desire to become proficient in modern 
horticulture. As we are now at peace with all the world, a 
field is open for improvement, such as was never before 
in our days. The whole continent of Europe, the whole 
of the civilised world, are our friends and correspond- 
ents; and the progress of gardening, like the progress of 
intellect, must make very rapid strides at this time. Also, 
your correspondents (particularly myself) should be very care- 
ful of what they write, if they have any wish or desire to make 
themselves immortal, for one well written article is worth fifty 
inferior ones. O! how many thousands of mortals have made 
themselves immortal by a few happy thoughts, or a few happy 
strokes of the pen, when in a happy humour. I believe I 
should never have heard of the poet Gray, if it had not been 
for his Elegy in a Country Churchyard ; nor of Blair, if it had. 
not been for his Grave, a Poem; nor of Home, if it had not 
been for his Douglas, a Tragedy; nor of Thomson, but for his 
Seasons; nor of Milton, but for his Paradise Lost, &c. &c.: 
and thousands might never have heard of Agronome, if it had 
not been for some happy letter in the Gardener’s Magazine ! 
which letter, it may be, I know not; I presume it is not writ- 
ten as yet, and shall in future adopt the following method : — 
The moment I receive the Magazine, I shall read it through, 
and fix upon a subject, and write my letter the same evening; 
dream of it, and think of it next morning; read it over next 
evening, erase, and interline it; dream, think, erase, and in- 
terline again every day for a week : then copy off what I think 
is perfection’s self, and send it to you, who must read it, think 
of it, dream about it, erase, and interline it, and superintend 
the printing of it; and then the public shall be treated with 
something capital, you may depend upon it! I shall not 
attempt to correct the grammar, spelling, or pointing of my 
letters; your printer’s devil must do that: it is quite out of 
my line. I never learned grammar; if I had, I should have 
neglected something of more importance. ‘* Good parts are 
better than parts of speech.” At all events, I am sure the 
Magazine keeps mending every Number. I should like to 
see a page or two of your Hortus Britannicus in the next 
Number. I think it must be an excellent work, but I have 
not resolved to purchase it as yet. But I must conclude; I 
am getting dull and sleepy, and the sheet is nearly scribbled 
over ; and yet I have said nothing either worthy of the Maga- 
zine or the name of your very humble servant, who, for the 
present, signs himself AGRONOME. 
Vou. ITI,—No. 11. U 


290 On Artificial Compost. 


Arr. XIII. On Artificial Compost. By W. R. Y. 


Scarce any farm can provide for its own tillage; and 
when the farmer has recourse to artificial manure, the gar- 
dener of necessity must be often distressed to conduct his 
department with credit to himself, or with profit to his em- 
ployer. Having experienced this difficulty, I learned to eco- 
nomise the means within my reach; and if the result, adopted 
for some years by myself, be considered of any use, let it be 
inserted in your valuable Magazine: if thought useless, let it 
be destroyed without hesitation, and without apology. 

In my melon yard are four pits, 18 feet square, and 44 feet 

deep, each holding three waggon:loads of bark. In the autumn 
I riddle over the bark, and, with the riddled part, refill two 
of them; the other two I refill with dead leaves, treading them 
down, and leaving them up-heaped, ‘like a hay stack. Upon 
New-year’s-day I prepare the bark-pits for forcing aspara- 
gus, radishes, rhubarb, and sea-kale, placing the glass over 
the pits. On the 1st of February I level the leaves, add 
some compost soil, and place over these pits the glass lights, 
planting potatoes, rhubarb, and kale. These crops being used 
by May-day, I again riddle the bark with a coarse sieve, and 
form a long ridge with the leaves, covering the same with what 
mould comes from the bark riddlings; and upon this ridge, 
with the bark mould and a trifle of cucumber compost, I ob- 
tain the finest cucumbers and vegetable marrow. ‘The leaves, 
&c., of the melon and cucumber yard are all turned together 
once or twice during the autumn and winter; and from this 
heap I am duly supplied with the very best compost for bal- 
sams, geraniums, capsicums, and many other green-house 
plants. 
The expenses of this process will of course vary in differ- 
ent districts ; with me it is trifling. The bark costs about 11, 
and the leaves are collected in two days by my gardener, two 
labourers, and a cart and two horses. Thus, after obtaining 
two crops, I have a remnant of one half the bark, and at least 
three waggon loads of excellent compost, considerably more 
valuable than the original outlay. . 

The compost being proportions of strong soil used for 
melons, rotten dung, and ditch scourings, blended with de- 
composed vegetable substances, is admirably fitted for striking 
geranium cuttings; and I have never seen finer celery than 
what I this year possess in those drills which were filled with 
this compost. The leaves are beginning to fall, and I shall 
lose no opportunity of securing them. | | 

- W.R. Y. 


Conduct of Gardeners and their Employers. 291 


© Art. XIV. On the Culture and Propagation of the Chrysinthe= 
mum indicum. By Mr. A. C. Lameiz, Gardener to Sir 

George Sitwell, Bart., Renishaw Hall, near Chesterfield, 

Derbyshire. 

Sir, 

I rake the liberty of submitting for your perusal the fol- 
lowing method of cultivating the Chrys4nthemum indicum, 
and, should you think it worth insertion in your valuable 
Magazine, it is at your service. 

In the month of May I select as many as are wanted of the 
best suckers from plants which flowered the preceding year, 
planting them three in each pot, in size 4 inches deep, and of 
the same width; placing them on the north side of a wall, or 
other shaded situation, till they have made some roots, and 
begun to grow. I then remove them to where they are fully 
exposed to the sun and free air. When the pots are nearly 
full of roots, I shift them into others 6 inches deep, in which 
they are to remain and flower. About the beginning of Sep- 
tember, or when there is any appearance of frost, they are 
taken into the green-house. A few pots are put into the 
pinery, and more every week for a succession. When the 
flowers are fully expanded, they are removed to the conserva- 
tory. I have them in flower from the beginning of October 
till nearly the middle of January. When done flowering, I 
keep them in any cool place, free from frost. 

The soil I make use of is turf, taken from an old pasture, 
rather sandy, and laid in a heap some time before using, leaf 
mould, well-rotted dung, and sand; the proportion one half 
turf, chopped small, and equal parts of the others, mixing 
them when wanted. I water them occasionally with water 
in which there have been horse droppings, or manure of some 
kind, steeped. From this treatment, which I have practised 
for four years, I have never failed in having a fine show of 
flowers, many of them measuring 5 and nearly 6 inches in 
diameter. Iam, Sir, &c. 

Renishaw Hall, Derbyshire, ALEX. C, LamBIE. 

Jan. 15. 1827. 


Art. XV. On the Conduct of Gardeners and their Employers, 
with respect to giving and exchanging Plants and Seeds. By 
a NosLeman’s GARDENER. 
Sir, 
Havine read in your Magazine (Vol. II. p.271.) a com- 
ment on gentlemen being sordid and suspicious towards their 
u 2 


292 Conduct of Gardeners and their Employers. 


gardeners’ parting with a few seeds or cuttings, &c., to another 
gardener, or even to a poor cottager, I cannot help making 
the following observations :— 

I will admit that this may in some measure be the case at 
times, but I consider it is generally brought on by improper 
conduct of the gardener. I have always been fortunate 
enough not to be so situated, which I attribute to the plan I 
have uniformly adopted. In the first place, I never do what 
I am ashamed my employers should know. If a friend calls 
on me, and my employers chance to come in the way, I am 
never ashamed to say who and what my friend is. But I have 
often visited gardeners who have appeared frightened when 
their employers chanced to light upon us Of course, when 

“that is the case, it is obvious that something is wrong, and this 
naturally enough leads to suspicion. ° 

I always make it a rule to impress on my employers 
the good, and even the necessity, of giving and exchanging 
plants with my neighbours, and have always found them to 
agree with me in this point. I beg freely when I go inte a 
neighbour’s garden, if I think I shall not be considered in- 
truding ; and I give still more freely if my neighbour comes 
to see me. I give, even in the presence of my employers, 
making no difference in that respect. ; 

My object has always been to improve every department 
under my care, whether of fruit, or flowers, or trees. I have 
no doubt, if this sort of conduct were more generally adopted, 
even if a gentleman were at first somewhat suspicious, by find- 
ing he had a conscientious servant, he would soon cease to 
harbour in his breast any such ungenerous thoughts. 

The greatest evil I have found to encounter with in a gen- 
tleman’s situation is from a certain individual that most 
gentlemen have about their persons, who is apt to take so 
much on himself, as to make almost every other servant about 
the family uncomfortable. It too cften happens that the 
person I allude to is of a cringing disposition, making his 
employer believe that he has his interest very much at heart, 
while, at the same time, it is quite otherwise; but the decep- 
tion is not often discovered by the gentleman till the mischief 
is done. It is a pity gentlemen do not render their gardeners 
more independent of such men. ‘This sort of person ge- 
nerally wants more attention than the gentleman himself; 
and, if he is not received by the gardener as he thinks he ought 
to be, he becomes prejudiced and malignant, and bent on some 
opportunity of retaliation. . Iam, Sir, &c. 

October 6. 1827. A Nopieman’s GARDENER. 


Disappointments of Orchardists. 293 


Ant. XVI. On propagating Paonia Moitan by grafting on 
Peonia officinalis. By Mr. James Nasu, Flower-gar- 
dener to Lady Farnborough, Bromley Hill, Kent. 


Sir, 

Tue method I practise for multiplying the Peeonia Modtan 
is as follows: — In any time, from the beginning of Septem- 
ber to the middle of March, I select some good tubers of 
P. officinalis, or of any other hardy herbaceous kind, and 
take off cuttings of P. papaveracea, or of any of the tree kinds 
which I wish to increase; I then slit the tuber from the crown 
downwards about two inches, form the scion like a wedge, in- 
sert it into the slit of the tuber, and fit the barks on one side 
as exactly as possible; then I bind them well together with 
good bass, over which I put one turn of brass wire, to pre- 
vent the parts from separating after the bass is decayed. I 
put them into pots deep enough to allow the mould to cover 
the top of the tuber, set them into a cold frame or pit, keep 
them close, rather dry, and defended from the sun for the 
first month, and from frost during winter. When they have 
perfected one season’s growth, I plant them out, or treat them 
like established plants. I am, Sir, &c. 

Bromley Hill, Kent, Oct. 29. 1827. James Nasu. 


re 


Art. XVII. On the Disappointments incident to Purchasers 
of Fruit Trees. By Surrrricrat, of Brixton Villa, Brix- 
ton, Surrey. 


Dear Sir, 

OBSERVING in your advertisement sheet to No. IX. the 
prospectus of the Pomological Magazine, permit me, through 
your medium, to make the Editors of that work a query : 
What is the Margil apple? Wanting a standard apple three 
years ago, I applied to those truly honourable men, Chandler 
and Buckingham, in the Wandsworth Road, and Mr. Chand- 
ler recommended the Margil, which I purchased ; and wishing 
for a description of the fruit, I turned to Mawe’s Gardener's 
Dictionary, and he describes it, among his second sort of 
apples, as “ middle-sized, ridged, and red-striped.” I then 
turned to Macdonald’s Gardener’s Dictionary, which says, 
“an excellent apple, about the size of a Nonpareil, of a red 
colour, with some yellow on one side; often sold in the Lon- 
don market for a Nonpareil.” I then turned to Forsyth, who 

u 3 


294 Disappointments of Orchardists. 


describes it nearly in the words of Macdonald, but more fully, 
and puts a reference to Hooker’s Pomona, p.33. On this I 
again called on Mr. Chandler, who said, ‘“ ‘They none of them 
know the fruit; for it is an excellent apple, very like the Rib- 
ston Pippin in flavour, so much so, that, judging from the 
taste, the best judge could not tell the difference.” I after- 
wards asked the foreman to Messrs. Barr and Brooks, who 
confirmed Mr. Chandler’s statement with this modest ad- 
dition: ‘ In my humble opinion, it is a finer-flavoured apple 
than the Ribston Pippin, but it will not keep so long.” ‘The 
tree has flourished well, and has every year borne fruit. 

I have seen a coloured drawing in the seed-shop windows of 
an apple, said to be a new sort, called the “ Cellini,” price 
one guinea, which, from the wood and fruit, I really think is 
the tree I have got from Messrs. Chandler and Co. under the 
name of the Margil: if not, it is easy for the advertiser to for- 
ward you some of the fruit for your candid judgment. I 
do not know him; but, if I am right, I think my ,brother 
Cockneys should know that they can have, by crossing 
the way in the Wandsworth Road, the tree at 3s., the price I 
paid, instead of one guinea. 

I am truly rejoiced at the article in your last Magazine 
(p. 31.) on the disappointments incidental to orchardists ; it is 
an evil that requires your serious attention, and has been 
complained of by authors on gardening for above one hundred 
years (see Lawrence on Gardening, 1717; Switzer’s Fruit- 
gardener, 1731; Fruit-gardener, 1768; and others, that I do 
not recollect immediately); and I can assure you it is in full 
operation at the present day. If you will allow me space in 
another communication, I can give you a list of many tricks 
of the kind that have come to my knowledge as having been 
played off in my neighbourhood, and I feel certain they were 
all done wilfully. I will not mention the names of the nur- 
serymen, but, if any one should choose to ask the question 
through your medium, they shall have a candid answer ; and, 
if they have been hinted at, when and where. I can only add, 
that I have been justly used, both in trees and price, by 
Messrs. Chandler and Buckingham and Messrs. Barr and 

Brookes. I really wish, according to your advice, they would 
publish a list of prices, warranting their articles, and I am 
certain it would answer their purpose. The former house, I - 
know, has a great choice of vines, and I believe they are 
charged far lower than is usually done for such plants as they 
furnish. Yours, truly, 

Brizton Villa. SUPERFICIAL, 


The Ver Blanc, or Larva of the Cockchaffer. 295 


Art. XVIII. On the Rose Cockchaffer, Anomalia horténsis ; 
supposed to be the perfect Insect of the Ver Blanc, or White 
Worm, of the French Horticulturists. By Witt1am Swain-= 
son, sq. F.R.S. F.L.S. &c. 


Dear Sir, 

I wave perused, with much interest, the papers you have 
brought under my notice on the destructive ravages of the 
ver blanc. ‘The pamphlet of M. Vibert is interesting, and, in 
all that regards the nature of this larva, is perfectly satisfac- 
tory; nevertheless, by a singular oversight, its ingenious and 
observing author leaves us in total ignorance on a point which 
seems to be deserving of a primary consideration. What is the 
scientific name of the beetle, of which the ver blanc is but the 
larva? It is well known that hanneton is the vulgar name in 
France for the cockchaffer of England; but it must be re- 
membered that of these hannetons there are several very dis- 
tinct European species; three of which * are abundantly 
common both in this country and on the Continent. To 
persons not acquainted with the peculiar habits which belong 
to every species of animal, the idea would occur of the han- 
neton of M. Vibert being the large English cockchaffer, the 
Scarabee'us meloléntha of Linnzeus: but this, I apprehend, 
is not the case. ‘The larva of the meloléntha, no less than 
the perfect insect, has, at remote intervals of time, appeared 
in this kingdom in such incredible swarms, and has com- 
mitted such dreadful ravages, that, but for the authenticated 
accounts published at the time, our credulity would be severely 
taxed: but this insect confines its depredations to the open 
country; as a larva, it feeds on the roots of grass, and, as a 
beetle, invariably prefers the foliage of forest trees and indi- 
genous shrubs. Another reason leads me to doubt the pro- 
bability of the ver blanc being the larva of the meloléntha. 
During the last two summers, but particularly that of 1826, I 
observed a prodigious number of the Anomalia horticola in 
my garden at Warwick ; and I found, upon enquiry, that this 
species had been equally abundant in other parts of the king- 
dom. ‘The perfect insect appeared in the greatest abundance 
during the end of May and the whole of June, swarming 
upon the rose bushes, and in a few hours destroying or dis- 
figuring every flower that had opened since the preceding day. 
They appeared to confine their ravages almost entirely to the 


* 1. Meloléntha vulgaris, Fad. 2. Anomalia horticola, Leach. 35. Ano- 
malia ruricola, Leach. 


U 4 


296 The Ver Blanc, or Larva of the Cockchaffer. 


rose. Numbers were picked from the bushes every day, and 
the gardener received much assistance in this occupation from 
sparrows and other semi-insectivorous birds. No insect is 
more easily captured than this; and if a few active boys were 
to be employed at the proper season in picking them from the 
bushes, the ravages of thousands, nay, of millions of the larvee 
during the next three years would be effectually prevented. 

Regarding the destruction of the larva, it does not appear 
that a sufficient course of experiments has been tried; and 
it even appears a matter of doubt, whether those few which 
have been attempted have not, in reality, rather tended to in- 
crease than to check the evil. It is quite obvious that any 
chemical application which is injurious to vegetable life must 
be avoided altogether. A partial application would drive all 
the insects to seek a closer shelter among the roots, while a 
general application would destroy both them and the plants 
together. Whether the free use of lime water, or of any new 
chemical combination, will so saturate the soil round the roots 
of the trees, as to destroy the larvae, seems to me very doubt- 
ful; but such experiments are certainly worthy of trial. 

Next in importance to the destruction of the larva is the 
best mode for checking the future increase of the perfect in- 
sect; and this, though a slow and prospective remedy, will 
probably be found the most effectual. I have already alluded 
to the facility with which this beetle, when at rest, may be 
caught. We can only have a competent idea of the result 
which would follow by a numerical estimate. Let us, then, 
suppose that in an extensive nursery, such as Mr. Calvert’s, 
ten boys were employed to collect these beetles on their first 
appearance, and that each boy, on an average for twenty days, 
was able to gather only 300 per day, the result would be the 
destruction of 60,000 beetles. Let one half of these be sup- 
posed to be females, and that each female would have de- 
posited in the earth 100 eggs, two thirds of which only would 
have survived accidents, we shall then see that a progeny of 
2,250,000 larvee would be annihilated, and their ravages for 
three entire years prevented. 

But this mode, however assiduously followed, can only be 
partial, and those insects which escape will inevitably deposit 
their eggs in the same locality in which they themselves were 
reared. To prevent this, I should recommend that, so soon 
as the perfect insect appeared, a top dressing, as I believe it is 
called, of either lime or cinders, be laid on every part of the 
surface of the infected ground. This dressing should be finely 
sifted and lie compact, so that the female could not readily 


Culture of Petunia nyctaginiflora. 297 


insinuate herself from the surface for the purpose of deposit- 
ing her eggs beneath. It should also be nearly a span deep; . 
by which means those few which might partially succeed in 
burrowing below the surface, might either be deterred from 
continuing the labour, or deposit their eggs above the true 
soil, This dressing should be left until no more of the beetles 
are seen: it then might be removed, and all apprehension for 
the succeeding year dispelled. 

I should strongly recommend a perseverance in these two 
methods to the proprietors of those nurseries where this pest 
of Flora has unfortunately made its appearance. In con- 
clusion, I trust that the pages of your interesting Magazine 
will contribute to supply what appears to me the greatest de- 
ficiency in the modern science of gardening, namely, a right 
knowledge of those species of insects which are so perpetually 
destroying the hopes of the horticulturist. 

I am, Sir; &c. 
Witiiam Swarnson. 
Tittenhanger Green, near St. Albans, 
: November 19. 1827. 


Art. XIX. On the Culture of Petunia nyctaginiflora. By 
Ropert Sweet, F. L.S., Author of Flora Australasica, 
Sweet’s Hortus Britannicus, &c. &c. 


Dear Sir, 

Tuinkine it might be interesting to some of your readers 
to know to what perfection the Petinza nyctaginiflora might 
be brought in a sheltered border of the flower-garden, I am 
induced to send you the following particulars of one cul- 
tivated in my garden. In October, 1826, I turned. out of a 
pot a seedling plant about six inches high, with two or three 
shoots to it, into a border by the side of a wall, facing the 
south, where it continued to grow rapidly all last winter, and 
never had a leaf injured. In very severe frosty weather, I 
covered it with a mat, but left it exposed whenever the weather 
was milder. By the middle of March, it was above eighteen 
inches high, with numerous branches, above half of which I 
was obliged to cut away in the beginning of April, when I first 
tied it up toa stick. After this it grew very fast, and, by the 
end of May, began to be covered with flowers. By the middle 
of July it was above six feet high, with many hundreds of its 
fine large white flowers open every day, each flower con- 


298 A Cheap Tally Peg jor Plants. 


tinuing in perfection two or three days; and by the middle of 
August it was eight feet high, and bushy in proportion, covered 
with flowers from the ground to the top, some thousands being 
expanded at one time, so that, at a distance, it appeared like 
a white sheet. In this state it continued to the beginning of 
the present month (November, 1827), when the flowers began 
to open more sparingly as the nights became longer; but it 
still continues to open a few, and is quite covered with others 
in a bud state, but those of course will not open. I intend 
shortly to cut it down to the young shoots, which are spring- 
ing up in abundance from the bottom, and which I expect will 
produce me an equally fine plant for next year. Wishing 
great success to your interesting Magazine, 
I am, dear Sir, &c. 
No. 20. Camera Square, Chelsea, R. Sweet. 
November 20. 1827. 


PS.—lI omitted to mention that the flowers of my plant 
were double the size of those that are produced on weak 
plants; consequently nearly double the size of those repre- 
sented in the figure of it in my British Flower-garden. 1 have 
sent you a few seeds of my Alstroemérza hirtélla, which has 
ripened in my garden by the side of the Petinza. You had 
better sow them in a pot at once, and turn them out in a warm 


border in spring. — R. S. 


Art. XX. A serviceable Tally Peg for Plants. By J. C. 


Sir, 

In the last number of your Magazine you give the figure 
of a tally peg invented by Mr. Murray of Glasgow. This peg, 
however, though certainly very neat, would, if used generally 
for flower beds, prove very expensive in large gardens. Hav- 
ing a considerable collection of herbaceous plants, I have had 
the tally cast, of which I now send you a specimen (jig. 105. 
full size), and which I think both neat and serviceable. These 
pegs were cast for me by Mr. Bayley of Cornhill, and cost 30s. 
per cwt., each cwt. containing between 1600 and 1700 pegs. I 
am induced to send you this statement, judging that many culti- 
vators would be glad of so great a convenience at so very 
moderate a price. These tallies, which I use for numbers 
only, are painted white, and numbered in black, with oil colours, 
which stand the wet extremely well. I have also seen them, | 


A Cheap Tally Peg for Plants. 299 


in a friend’s garden, varnished black, and numbered in white, 


which does not appear so conspicuous on the beds, but rust 
much sooner from exposure to the atmosphere. 

I am, Sir, &c. 
September, 1827. J.C. 


300 Culture of Amargllis vittata. 


On calling on Mr. Bayley, he informed us that he lost 
money by the transaction referred to, and therefore could not 
supply any more at the same price. We suggested an im- 
provement, with a view to naming instead of numbering 
(fig. 106.), and ordered a few hundreds for ourselves, for 
which we paid Mr. Bayley 2s. 1d. per 100; and this, though 
a little more than what was paid by our correspondent, is sull 
a very low price. — Cond. 


Arr. XXI. On the Culture of Amarijlis vittata in the neigh- 
bourhood of St. Petersburgh. By Mr. Francis FatpEr- 
MANN, C.M.H.S., Botanic Gardener to the Emperor of 
Russia, at St. Petersburgh. 

Sir, 

In your Gardener’s Magazine I find a great many useful 
remarks and treatises on gardening in its different branches. 
This work will become, by and by, a kind of general gar- 
dener’s repository, indispensable to every one professing the 
business. 

In Vol. II. p. 254. I found a query respecting the AmarYllis 
vittata (fig. 107.) by Mr. Joseph eek LOR ie 
Groom, to know how it is to be 
treated to flower well. I must own 
I never had the chance, during Ss Z 
the few years I staid in London, {> 4 Su 
to see it well in flower. Ss 

As the climate of St. Peters- 
burgh is so very different from 
that of London, and other more 
southern countries, we are con- 
sequently obliged to contrive a 
great variety of means to force the 
plants into perfect vegetation ; and 
we flatter ourselves with the suc- 
cess which we have had with several handsome species, 
which we think we flower as well as could be wished. I shall 
confine myself at present to the treatment of the above-men- 
tioned Amarfllis, one of the most ornamental plants of our 
hot-houses. 

Almost every collection in and around St. Petersburgh pos- 
sesses this plant in abundance, which hardly ever fails to be- 
in flower during the months of March and April, after which 


Culture of Amarillis vittdta. 301 


it frequently ripens seeds ; by which means it has become very 
common in our collections. The seeds sown immediately after 
their maturity, and treated in the manner described below, 
will commence flowering in three or four years, and will do so 
every succeeding year. 

The seeds, after having been well ripened, are scwn in 
large pots, or flat boxes, in the latter end of April and be- 
ginning of May, in a mixture of equal parts of turf and good 
garden mould, with a little addition of sand. ‘They require 
the heat of a good stove or hot-bed to germinate them quickly 
and vigorously. ‘They will come up in a very few days, 
and will sometimes grow till the end of July; during which 
time they must be frequently watered, to have them in a con- 
tinually moist state; by which means the bulbs attain, the first 
year, the size of a large pigeon’s egg. After the leaves have 
commenced to become yellow, the plants must by degrees be 
less watered; and at the end of August they are generally 
quite done growing, and the leaves all decayed. Then they 
ought to be kept dry upon a shelf, in a stove or in a green- 
house, in the driest and warmest spot. In this situation they 
should remain till the end of November, at which time they 
must be carefully taken out of the pots and boxes, the mould 
taken entirely away without injuring the roots, which are 
partly still alive, the decayed roots removed, and the bulbs 
potted again in fresh mould of the same kind, and placed in a 
dry but warm situation in the stove, without, however, being 
watered: the damp of the house itself will give sufficient 
moisture to occasion the circulation of the sap. At this period 
they will again form young roots, and in the month of January 
bring forth young leaves: then they may be gently watered, 
and gradually more so, until they are again in ‘a vigorous 
state; at which time too much water cannot be given to them. 
The vegetation will cease at the same time it did the first 
year; and, by the continuation of the same treatment, in the 
third year some of them will come into flower, though weakly. 
The fourth year, and every year afterwards, when treated in 
the same manner, they will flower in the months of March and 
April without fail, and ripen abundance of seeds. 

_ It is particularly recommended to give them, during their 

full vegetation, and especially after flowering, a great heat 

and plenty of water, to perfect the bulbs for the succeeding 
ear. 

: After the bulbs have attained sufficient strength, they will 

push two scapes, and some of them will bear four, six, and 

afterwards eight flowers, which, by their excellent scent, per- 


302 Early Crops of Cauliflower. 


fume all our houses. This plant may certainly be ranked 
amongst the first of its family; nothing excels its beauty. 
When not kept too hot during the time of flowering, the 
flowers will last above two weeks. As it seeds so freely, from 
these might, by impregnation from other species, be obtained 
many varieties, or perhaps new species. A 

I remain, Sir, &c. J. FALDERMANN. 
Imperial Botanic Garden, at St. Petersburgh, 

August 14. 1827. 


Art. XXII. An approved Method of obtaining a Crop of 
Early Cauliflower, a week or ten days before those treated in 
the usual way. By J. M. 


From a seed-bed which has been sown two or three days 
after rather than before the customary period, select a score or 
two of healthy plants. Pot them singly into the smallest-sized 
garden-pots, in rich loamy compost; water, and plunge them 
in a cold-frame, shading for a short time, till they have taken 
root. Afterwards give air daily, drawing on the lights at 
night, and defending from severe frost with a mat or two; 
water frequently with tepid manured water, and keep clear 

_from decayed leaves and weeds. Examine the state of the 
roots from time to time, and, as soon as they become in the 
least degree matted, immediately shift into 48-sized pots, with 
the before-mentioned compost; and replace them carefully 
in the same frame, attending to them as before. When the 
roots have nearly filled these last pots, shift into thirty-twos, 
and, in due time, they will ultimately require twenty-fours ; 
or, if they have grown rapidly, even eighteens. After being 
fairly established in these, they may be removed into a vinery, 
peach, or other forcing-house, there to remain till the end of 
March or beginning of April, when they may be turned out 
into the open air, between the asparagus beds, or any other 
warm and well sheltered spot. They will require to be put in 
pretty deep, and protected by hand-glasses, or at least by 
boughs of trees, that they may not suffer from the sudden 
transition or inclement skies. It is hardly necessary to add, 
that the whole success of this mode of culture depends entirely 
on the plants receiving no check in any stage of their growth, 
either from want of timely re-potting, water, air, or sufficient 
protection from frost. While in the house, if not supplied 
with water in pans, they are very liable to button, and thereby 
wholly defeat the end in view. dik oa ied 2) 

Chelsea, October. 


303 


PART II. 


REVIEWS. 


Art. 1. Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 
Vol. 1V. Part I. 


(Concluded from p. 195.) 


7. Observations regarding the Management of Oak Coppice Woods, 
&c. By Mr. Robert Hosie, Gardener to the Right Honourable | 
Lord Lynedoch. 

PLANTING of oaks for coppice woods, in Scotland, has been 
carried to such an extent, that Mr. Hosie thinks there is a 
probability it may be over-done: but, should this be the case, 
it is easy to allow standards to get up among the under- 
growths ; and the object of Mr. Hosie’s paper is to recommend 
leaving the standards in groups, instead of scattering them 
regularly over a wood. ‘The advantages of this practice are, 
more air for the undergrowths, and a more picturesque effect. 
For instance, if sixty trees were left regularly over an acre, the 
distance between them would be about 26 or 27 ft., which is 
too close for coppice wood to thrive under; on the other hand, 
if sixty trees were left in three groups, it would leave at least 
five-sixths of the acre perfectly clear. The distance at which 
oak plants for coppice wood should be planted, Mr. Hosie, after 
a good deal of experience and consideration, thinks should be 
10 ft., or about four hundred and fifty plants to anacre. “ By 
reasoning from analogy we find that, both in horticulture 
and agriculture, there is a certain distance that will produce 
the greatest weight of crop; if too great, the ground is not 
altogether occupied; if too close, the plants are choaked up 
for want of air. It is only by examining the distance in the 
most thriving plantations, that we can form any thing like a 
correct notion of the subject; but, from any observation it 
has been in my power to make, I should certainly prefer 
10 ft. to 8 ft.” 

Rearing oak and pine woods by sowing the plants where 
they are ultimately to remain has been tried by Mr. Hosie, and 
found not to be the most profitable way. Much has been said 


304 Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 


about the advantage of not disturbing the taproot; Mr. Hosie 
has found “ that it is only to 4 certain depth, and where the 
soil suits, that the taproot takes a perpendicular direction, a 
horizontal one afterwards being the most material. As to 
the difference of expense betwixt sowing and planting, let it 
be considered that, within the compass of a few square yards, 
as many trees can be raised as would plant some acres, and at 
a trifling expense; while, by sowing a large plantation at 
first, the extra-expense of seed alone would nearly counter- 
balance that of planting, besides other disadvantages, such as 
the young plants being thrown out by the frost, particularly 
the pine tribe, and the loss of the growth of a year or two, 
which may be saved by planting stout plants.” Stout oak 
plants of from 3 to 5 ft. high, with very little pruning either 
of the roots or tops, are what Mr. Hosie recommends. 
Pruning at an early age has very little effect on the future 
form of the tree, for what is the leading shoot at first ‘plant- 
ing, very seldom remains so. 

* To form handsome trees in extensive woods, and with- 
out retarding their growth, in my judgment, pruning with a 
large knife, seven or eight years after they are planted, when 
they begin to grow vigorously, is the best way. The prun- 
ing of all the lateral branches, great and small, up to a certain 
height, as is practised by some, I think a bad plan; it is 
not the way to form handsome trees, and in general gives 
such a check to their growth, that they are some years before 
they recover. It is very doubtful to me, if the pine tribe 
ever should be pruned at all, unless in taking off the dead 
boughs; but, if it is necessary to prune the live branches, 
they should not be cut too close to the stem at first, but left 
as snags, and cut close afterwards, when the sap is gone.” 

*° The object of thinning coppice stools, is to leave such 
strong shoots, that none of the others that may afterwards 
spring from the same stool will ever be able to contend with 
them.” : 

‘© It often happens, particularly at the first cutting of an 
oak coppice, that a considerable number of ‘the stools do not 
shoot the first year, and sometimes not even for two or three 
years afterwards, and these generally the healthiest of them.” 
A remedy for this is, ‘ to remove the earth from the roots a 
little way round the stem immediately after cutting.” It is 
of great consequence to cut the stems low; “for, as the 
young shoots generally spring from between the angles of 
the large roots or fangs, so the lower down they come the 
better; for, when they spring from the root itself; they pro- 


‘Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 305 


duce the most luxuriant wood.” ‘This is agreeable to the 
experience of Menteath, and to the law of nature as to the 
shooting of ligneous plants. (p. 245.) 

“As to what is called dressing the stools, I have every 
reason to think it is quite useless; it is no doubt meant to 
prevent that part from rotting, which it will not do. In 
general, the part of the stool near the surface, or what is 
above ground, will decay long before next cutting, although, 
in some very few cases, where it is left high, and the shoots 
spring from the top, it may in some measure be preserved, 
although in an unsound state; but I by no means think it a 
disadvantage for that part of the stool that is above ground 
to rot soon, as in that case the new shoots will be sure to 
come from the roots.” 

Oak Mr. Hosie considers by far the best tree for hedge-rows ; 
and the best effect, and at the same time the least injury to the 
hedge and the corn crops, is produced by planting them irre- 
gularly. When planted regularly, they have a tendency to 
stagnate the air. Oak plants for a: young hedge should be 
3 ft. high or so, and planted along with it; for an old hedge, 
6 or 7 ft. in height ; so that their tops may be beyond the reach 
of cattle. 


8. Account of an improved mode of ventilating Hot-houses. By 
Mr. John Tweedie, Gardener at Eglinton Castle. 
Instead of giving air at the top of the roof by letting down 
sliding sashes, Mr. Tweedie raises up by a sympathetic move- 
ment two or three panes in a small tin frame, which he calls a 
hatch. 
In the longitudinal section of a roof ventilated in this way 
(fig. 108.), the ventilators (4) are shown in a half open state, 


WY 


RATATAT NY 


tod 4.2 3.4 5 6 ft. 


and the cord, rod, or jack line (e), to which the lever (#) is 

attached, is shown balanced at one end by a weight (g), and 

fastened at the other by a movable hand-pin (+). In one of 

the upright styles or door-posts (a), in the end of the house, 

are pierced several sockets at Gin. distance. ‘ Into these 

sockets, an iron hand-pin (4) is introduced, regulating the 
Vou. ITI. — No. 11. x < 


306 Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 


whole apparatus, by being moved upwards or downwards, 
from socket to socket by the hand, according to the various 
degrees of air-vent wanted. This iron pin is fixed to a cord 
or chain (c), passing through the style (a), over a pulley (4), 
which cord or chain is fixed to a rod or chain (ee), having an 
axle joint at the junction of each lever. © The rod or chain, 
when the hand-pin (4) is moved up or down, moves horizontally 
between a pulley (d), and another pulley (/), fixed to the cor- 
responding style at the other end of the house, by the action of 
a weight (g), attached to the end of the rod bya cord or 
chain passing over the second pulley (f). ‘This horizontal rod 
or chain (¢ e), in its motion, thus produced by a weight ( £)s 
operates at every joint, as already mentioned, on bent le- 
vers (2), which, being attached to hatches (4), lift them or 
lower them so as to admit or exclude the air, as circumstances 
may require. The upper end of the lever is fastened to the 
hatches by screw-nuts, in order that, by unscrewing them, the 
sashes may be freed from the levers, and removed at pleasure 
for repair. The hatches occupy the place of two, three, or 
four panes lengthwise at the top of the sash, proportioned to 
the dimensions of the house, and are hinged upon one of the 
astragals, projecting both at the sides and the ends, to exclude 
the wet.” 

Tn various descriptions of hot-houses, this mode of ventila- 
ting may be found worth adopting; it will certainly be found 
cheaper than sliding sashes, and air may be given or taken 
away in far less time; but a still better mode of ventilation is 
that of Mr. Atkinson already described. (Vol. II. p. 200.) One 
advantage of Mr. Tweedie’s plan is, that it may be applied 
with facility to hot-houses already existing; but where new 
houses are to be built, we should decidedly prefer Mr. At- 
kinson’s to every other. 


9. Queries relative to the Sowing, instead of Planting, of Forest 
Trees. By Messrs. Bishop, Beattie, and Mitchell. 


Some speculations on the taproot, and the danger of de- 
stroying it in transplanting forest trees, which appeared in 
the Caledonian Society's Memoirs (vol.ii. p. 416), and which 
these three gardeners, who rank among the most intelligent 
and experienced in Scotland, consider as “ strange lights apt 
to mislead the unwary,” have led to these queries, which are 
as follows : — 

‘¢ 1. Has it been ascertained by accurate experiments, that 
the taproots in timber trees have a general tendency to pro- 


Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Soctety. 307 


mote their vigour and growth, after the third and fourth year 
of their age ? 

2. Can instances be pointed out, to prove the advantage of 
raising timber, by sowing seeds where the trees are to re- 
main, in preference to planting the same extent of ground 
with young trees, two or three years old, a year or two later, 
seeing the practice of sowing muirs and waste lands with 
seeds of the Scotch fir and larch has been long since at- 
tempted in Scotland, but without the expected success ? 

*¢ 3. What proofs can be adduced to contradict the results of 
experiments made in Dean Forest, and ordered to be printed 
by the House of Commons in the year 1812, from which it 
appears, that the transplanting of oak trees, in particular, was 
followed by an excess of growth, faz superior to that of others 
which were never transplanted, the cases of both being per- 
fectly similar ? 

“° 4. Wherefore should not the transplanting of trees, or 
stopping of the taproot at a proper age, encourage more the 
growth of roots in a horizontal direction, which have always 
a freer range to procure nourishment, and are more likely to 
be benefited by the influence of the sun and rains, than those 
which strike perpendicularly into a sterile subsoil, and which 
are the soonest broken by violent winds, when the tree attains 
much height, as is very observable in larch, and fir trees blown 
over, and which in many cases occasions the rot in such trees, 
which begins in the root, and proceeds upwards ?” 

The Council (April 5th, 1827) recommend these queries 
as the subjects of communications founded on experience, 
for which medals will be awarded, according to the merits of 
such reports. 


10. Account of a simple and effectual Method of destroying the 
Scaly Insect. By Mr. W. Beattie, C.M.H.S., Gardener to the. 


Earl of Mansfield at Scone. 


Mr. Beattie found that neither chamber-lie, nor soap-suds 
with the addition of soda, nor Mr. Scougall’s clay paint, would 
destroy these insects; but he thought of trying boiling water, 
which he found an effectual remedy. On a mild day in 
February, a Green Gage plum tree was unnailed from the wall, 
and with a painter’s soft brush washed all over with boiling 
water, at least as nearly to boiling as it could be carried a 
short distance in a small water-pot. No injury was found to 
be done to the tree, while the scaly insect was entirely de- 
stroyed. The following winter, the whole of the trees infested: 
were treated in a similar manner, and the insect completely 

x 2 


308 Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 


got rid of. A very intelligent friend of Mr. Beattie’s washed 
trees with boiling water with the garden engine in frosty. 
weather, and the trees sustained no injury. Mr. Beattie tried 
boiling water on trees in the peach houses infested with the 
white bug, and found it completely successful. He therefore 
considers the efficacy and safety of this simple application as 
completely established. 


11. Remarks on the Locust Tree recommended by Mr. Cobbett, with 
Notices of other more desirable Forest and Ornamental Trees. By 
Thomas Blaikie, Esq. C.M.H.S. and C.M.C.H.S. 


Mr. Cobbett’s locust is the Robinza Pseud-Acacia, and he 
affirms that “ no man in America will dare to say that he ever 
saw a bit of the wood of this tree in a decayed state.” Mr. 
Blaikie, however, has seen it in a rotten state in France; and 
he adds that in that country the Robinza is very apt to be 
injured by the wind, and that a tree with a straight stem 
of 20 ft. is seldom to be met with; he therefore advises gen- 
tlemen not to destroy ‘‘ the villanous Scotch pine and the 
infamous elm, and plant nothing but locust,” as Cobbett 
recommends. ; 

“‘ In the year 1807, M. Francois de Neufchateau published 
a little book, entitled, Lettre sur le Robinia connu sous le nom 
zmpropre de Faux Acacia. In this book he speaks with. en- 
thusiasm of the Acacia, recommends the planting of it in all 
soils and situations, and even the making hedges of it; and 
he enlarges on the many uses the wood can be applied to. 
This high character enticed many people to plant Acacias both 
in the gardens about Paris and in many avenues; so that 
abundance of seeds of the Acacia could be procured within a 
few leagues of Paris. Most of those I have seen are bushy, 
low, or broken trees, often disfigured, and not comparable to 
either elm or oak, or any cf our common forest trees. The 
branches are covered with strong prickles, so that where wood 
is wanted (which is a great article in this country), the wood- 
men exclaim against that of this tree, as they cannot handle 
it without danger. Few people, therefore, at present think of 
planting the locust tree.” 

Some plantations of Acacias in the park of Guiscard, of fifty 
years’ growth, are for the most part disfigured, the branches 
split or broken, and lying upon the other trees. Locust trees 
could not serve to shelter a country seat in a northern climate. 
The small roots of R. Psetd-Acacia, viscosa, hispida, and 
spectabilis are sweet, and resemble in taste and smell the 
liquorice root. 


Bot) * : eye tet | 


a Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 309 | 


' Notwithstanding these observations of Mr. Blaikie, the 
rapid growth of the Acacia when young, or when cut down 
to the ground, renders it a very profitable tree as underwood, 
for the purposes of hop-poles, fencing, or firewood. 

The white oak is recommended by Mr. Cobbett as very 
tough and flexible, being employed in America for whip- 
handles. Mr. Blaikie mentions that the whip-handles of the 
coachmen about Paris are made of the Céltis australis, and 
are also very tough. They are known by the name of Per- 
pignans, being procured from that quarter. The Plétanus 
Mr. Blaikie mentions as growing to an amazing size when 
planted in a moist soil. Several at Troyes, in Champagne, have 
clean straight trunks of 160 ft., and magnificent heads. ‘The 
timber of the Platanus was proved, by the unfortunate M. de 
Malesherbes, about forty years ago, to be upwards of twice as 
durable as that of the elm. 


12. On scraping off the old Bark of Fruit Trees, and on the Dif. 


Jerence between the Effect of early and late Pruning. By Mr. 
Thomas Thomson. 


Mr. Thomson thinks that trees do not decay so much from 
want of fibrous roots to imbibe nourishment, as from the 
compression of the alburnum by the indurated outer bark: 
hence the advantage of scraping it off in old trees, while 
removing it from young trees does harm. Mr. Thomson 
has practised scraping off the outer bark of old trees for up- 
wards of twenty years. ‘The best season is the spring and 
autumn; and, after the operation, the trunk and branches are 
painted over with a paint made of dried clay, pounded into a 
fine powder, and mixed with water. 3 

- The following observations show the importance of attend= 
ing to the period of pruning trees, accordingly as it may be 
desirable to make them push early and vigorously, or to retard 
and weaken their shoots, or retard their blossoms, so as to 
protect them from spring frosts: — “* Having employed a hedger 
to cut over a strong, healthy thorn hedge, that enclosed a 
plantation of considerable extent, he had cut over a large por- 
tion of it early in autumn, but, being called off to some other 
duties, the remainder was cut over in the winter and spring 
following. The whole was cut at 24 ft. from the ground, and 
all done by the same persons. I happened to go, in the latter 
end of the summer, to view the plantation, having thinned it 
out the preceding autumn, when I was much struck with the 
unequal growth of the hedge. At first I imputed it to some- 
thing in the soil, but, on examining ijt more minutely, I found 

x 3 


310 Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 


that it was owing to the different seasons of cutting; for the 
part that was cut in autumn had made shoots 4 ft. in length, 
while that which had been cut in winter had made very few 
shoots, and few of them more than a foot in length. The 
part that was cut in the spring was little inferior to what was - 
done in the autumn. A marked lesson how cautious one 
ought to be as to the season at which they prune the more 
delicate sorts of fruit trees.” 


13. On the Raising of Seedling Ranunculuses, with an Account of 
some fine ones exhibited to the Society on the 22d of June, 1826. 
By Mr. John Waterston, of Paisley. 


The seed was gathered about the end of July, and kept in 
the seed-vessel, with the stems attached, till the March follow- 
ing. It may be sown either about the beginning or middle of 
that month. It was sown in boxes in a mixture of auricula 
mould and fresh sandy loam, and before covering with earth 
well watered: it was then covered with about 14 in. of the 
same mould, very finely sifted. ‘The boxes were put in a bed 
of half-spent tanner’s bark, covered with a frame of two lights, 
and the following very ingenious mode was adopted of supply- 
ing heat, when that of fermentation failed : — A tin vessel, of 
the capacity of 6 or 7 gallons (fig. 109.), was buried in the 
bed, so that its top was about 
8 in. under the surface of the soil. 
‘In cold evenings this vessel was 
filled with hot water by means 
of the funnel and pipe (a), which 
was found to keep up a temper- 
ature nearly equal to that during 
the day. When the vessel is to 
be refilled with hot water, the 
cold is withdrawn by the cock and pipe (6), and there is a 
small pipe (c), from the top of the vessel, to admit the escape 
of air in filling. A good many of the seeds were eaten by the 
larvee of insects; and, to prevent this, it is recommended that 
compost heaps should be covered at the beginning of autumn, 
when most insects are laying their eggs. [A plan that well merits 
adoption.] During the first year the plants require to be kept 
in a regular state as to moisture, and shaded from the sun. 
When the leaves wither the roots are carefully lifted, and kept 
in a dry place till the ensuing February, when they are again 
planted 1 in. deep in fine soil, and many of them flower in the 
following July. A list is given of the flowers exhibited, which 
were considered very fie. 


Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. $11 


14. Account of a Method of cultivating the Grape Vine. By Mr. 
Ninian Niven. 

The method is to grow and fruit the plants in pots, the pots 
plunged in a bed of leaves or tan in a flued pit, and the shoots 
trained on a trellis under the roof. During the first and 
second year a crop of melons may be obtained on the leaves 
or tan. After the vines have been fruited two or three 
years, they may be thrown away, and their place supplied by 
young plants, which will bear larger bunches and berries. The 
great advantage of this plan is its economy; and time may be 
also said to be gained by the production of a crop of melons 
the first year. If leaves are used instead of tan, the vines 
may be turned out of the pots at each end of the pit, and their 
shoots led along the trellis to the ends opposite. 

15. On mulching and watering Fruit Tree Borders. By Mr. James 
Smith, Gardener at Hopetoun House. 

Mr. Smith recommends what, we think, is in general too 
little attended to, “ very moderate cropping of fruit tree 
borders, and keeping the vegetables at some distance from the 
wall.” After the wall trees at Hopetoun House have received 
their winter dressing, the borders are digged over, and laid up 
in a rough state, so as to retain the moisture which falls during 
winter. Planks for walking on are laid along the bottom of 
the wall, and well-rotted hot-bed dung is spread on the border, 
about four inches thick, beginning at the base of the wall, and 
extending outwards about eight feet. ‘This mulching re- 
mains till the dry weather of summer is past, when it is 
removed, and the surface of the ground is hoed and raked 
smooth, to reflect the rays of the sun, and to promote the 
maturity of the fruit, and the ripening of the flower buds of 
the following season.” 

‘* The principal use of mulching is the prevention or dimi- 
nution of evaporation. ‘The moisture upon which fruit trees, 
in dry years, subsist, is solely the produce of the winter and 
spring rain, as must be known to every one who has observed 
to how small a depth the summer showers penetrate exposed 
and hardened soils. The case is even worse where there are 
crops of vegetables, as they extract the sap which is in the 
ground, and disperse the slight rains before they reach the 
earth. I have seen a fruit-border so exhausted and parched, 
by a crop of early peas or cauliflower, as to be scarcely capa- 
ble of supporting any thing before the damps of autumn had 
restored it to somewhat of its proper tone. It is evident, that 
whatever prevents an excessive escape of moisture by evapo- 
ration, must prove very beneficial.” Sas eS 

x 4 


312 Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 


‘“‘ In the course of the summer, the borders are frequently 
watered over the dung. This is generally done pretty freely, 
and, in very dry seasons, large quantities are applied. From 
what I have already said, this will, perhaps, be thought super- 
fluous, as it may seem that the water will not subside far into 
the soil. But this is not the case; for the soil below the dung 
is soft, and comparatively damp, and therefore does not resist 
the fluid. But, even upon the supposition that the water does 
not sink far into the ground, the practice must be beneficial, 
since, by this means, the evaporation is confined, in a great 
measure, to the surface of the dung; whereas, were the dung 
to become dry, it must arise from the soil below. 

‘6 My belief of the utility of mulching and watering, does not 
rest on theoretical considerations merely : it has been amply 
confirmed by the experience of the last season (1826). In 
many gardens, apricots were very diminutive: here we had 
an uncommonly abundant crop; and, notwithstanding the 
drought, the single fruit were, perhaps, one third larger than 
those for which I obtained the Society’s medal in 1825. I 
found the same treatment equally beneficial when applied to 
the finer pears, suchas the Brown Beurrée, Gansel’s Bergamotte, 
Crassane, &Xc. 

‘“‘ I am fully satisfied that the mz/dew on peach trees may be 
prevented, or in a great measure kept under, by seasonable 
and copious waterings, in the months of July and August. It 
is stated by Mr. Harrison, that this disease is induced by the 
roots being in a dry condition, and the juices consequently 
stagnant, while the air is charged with moisture. My own 
experience completely coincides with that of this ingenious 
horticulturist. I have no doubt that, whatever be the original 
cause of mildew, that its ravages are greatly accelerated by 
the circumstances mentioned. I do not mean to be under- 
stood to say that waterings, however copious, will remove the 
disease when fairly established, but unquestionably they are an 
excellent preventive. The best method of applying water to 
the roots of peach as well as other fruit trees, is over dung, 
since the mulching prevents the water from battering the soil, 
and running off during the operation. 

“‘ ‘The practice of mulching and watering may appear ex- 
pensive and laborious, but it is amply compensated by the 
improvement of the fruit. Watering is doubtless laborious in 
those gardens which are not properly furnished with water- 
pipes. Being fortunate at Hopetoun House garden in this 
respect, I find it an easy matter ; indeed, a single boy frequently 
performs the operation. As the water is poured upon the 


. Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 313 


mulching, it can be done at any period of the day, when it is 
not required for any other purpose.” 


16. Notice of some Forest and Ornamental Trees which deserve 
the Attention of Scottish Cultivators. By Gilbert Laing Mea- 
son, Esq. 

M. André Michaux noted to Mr. Laing Meason the fol- 
lowing trees and shrubs, as deserving the attention of gentle- 
men in Scotland : — 

Bétula papyracea, the paper or true Canadian Canoe Birch. 
A tree of rapid growth, excellent timber, large, and highly 
ornamental. 

Fraxinus americana, White American Ash. Quicker in 
growth than the common ash; but the young wood apt to be 
injured by the winters in Scotland. 

Pinus laricio, the Laricio or Corsican Pine (Gard. Mag., 
vol. i. p. 79.), found also in the Pyrenees. “ It is a very hand- 
some tree, assuming more the habit of a deciduous forest tree 
than of the pine or fir class. ‘The wood is said to be good, 
and the growth is quick.” 

Ilex chinénsis, Chinese Holly. Of rapid growth; leaves 
small, and without spines; well adapted for division hedges in 
flower-gardens. 

Orme de Sibérie, or Siberian Elm. ‘‘ This is an excellent 
fast-growing tree, possessing the quality of toughness in a 
degree superior, perhaps, to any other tree in Europe; at 
least, from repeated trials, it has been found in France to be 
one of the toughest and most elastic of woods. I have planted 
a few specimens, which thrive vigorously in a strong soil in 
Forfarshire. The tree grows to a considerable size, and is 
quite distinct from the U'lmus pumila, which is often called 
Siberian Elm in our nurseries.” 

Bourgene de Canadie? ‘ An evergreen that has proved 
itself in France to form an excellent hedge.” We shall be 
much obliged to our correspondent M. Soulange-Bodin for 
the scientific names of this shrub and the preceding tree. 

Jaglans alba americana, White American Walnut. A fine 
large tree, of much quicker growth than the common walnut. 

Tilleul argenté de Constantinople, Silvery Constantinople 
Lime. A fine tree, with delightfully smelling flowers; pro- 
bably the Tilia argéntea of Waldstein and Kitaibel. 


17. Notice of the Hardy Fruits of Upper Canada. By Mr. Tho- 
mas Blair. — 

The apples in the orchards are particularly fine: they are 

all raised from seed; and, though many of the trees produce 


™ 


314 Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 


fruit fit only for cider, yet these are more valuable to the inha- 
bitants than the finer sorts, as they can find a ready sale for 
‘the cider, which they could not do for the apples, were they 
ever so finely flavoured. 

There are several fine healthy old fruit trees in Lower 
Canada; and among the apples, the Pomme grise, Bourassa, 
and Fameuse, esteemed French varieties. 

ss | was informed that the Island of Montreal, about thirty 
years ago, was much famed for the quantity and excellent 
quality of its pears; but now there are very few of that fine 
fruit in the country, the old trees are fast disappearing, and 
the greater part of the young ones are in an unhealthy state; 
and no person could assign any cause for this general decay 
of their pear trees.” 

‘‘ Apple trees I have frequently seen in an unhealthy state, 
both in Upper Canada and the United States, where they had 
been planted on land that had been several years cleared, or 
in cultivation ; whereas, on the contrary, when they are planted 
on ground newly cleared, and amongst the stumps and roots 
of forest trees, there they never refuse to grow, and that 
most luxuriantly; so that, in a few years, they become large 
trees much sooner than they would in the same space of time 
in Scotland. For that reason, most of the settlers that emi- 
grate from Scotland to that country are led into an error: 
they generally commence raising apple trees from seed, and 
defer planting an orchard until the stumps and roots of the 
forest trees are nearly all decayed, and the land frequently 
ploughed ; whereas, much time could be saved by planting 
the trees as soon as the land is cleared; and trees can be pur- 
chased at a moderate expense from small nurseries, which are 
now pretty general in the country. 

‘“‘ The Kentish Cherry succeeds better in America than any 
other, and produces better-flavoured fruit than in Britain; it is 
chiefly propagated from suckers. Good crops of Blackhearts, 
Maydukes, and other varieties, are produced in Kentucky and 
Virginia, but the trees are much injured by the intense heat of 
the sun. 

‘¢ Peach trees succeed tolerably well in Lower Canada on 
walls, with a little protection from mats in winter. In Upper 
Canada, particularly on the Niagara river, they succeed very 
well as standards. ‘They grow with great rapidity, but very 
litthe attention is paid to them. They are all raised from 
seeds, and many will produce blossoms, if not fruit, the third 
summer. - A few are large and fine-flavoured fruit, and many 
tolerable. . . 


Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 315 


** Quinces on the Niagara river produce generally a good 
‘crop. ‘They are certainly a finer-flavoured fruit than those 
produced in England, being free from the disagreeable smell 
that the English quinces have, and are esteemed the best fruit 
for preserving in that country. ‘The trees are remarkably 
dwarf, which I suspect is owing to the method they have in 
propagating them, which is altogether from cuttings, and these 
are generally branches of considerable size, and planted in the 
spring.” 


18. Hints on increasing the Warmth of Garden Walls, by painting 
them Black ; with a Description of an improved Mode of con- 
structing Subdivision Walls in Gardens, §c. By Mr. John Hen- 
derson, Den Nursery, Brechin. 


Painting walls black has been tried in several places, and the 
result has been better leaves, larger and more numerous fruit, 
and the destruction of the larvae of insects on the wall. A 
cheap way of blackening a wall is first to paint it with boiling 
coal tar, and, when that is thoroughly dry, to paint over again 
with black oil paint: this would produce a jet black. 

Old ragged walls may be improved by plastering them 
over, and attaching to them a wire trellis. ‘“ This is by no 
means a costly expedient; and on an old wall I lately had the 
operation performed as follows: — Before the plaster was put 
on, a number of nails were driven into the wall, about 2 ft. 
apart, in horizontal lines, which lines were about 9 in. asunder. 
_ After the plaster was dry, a wire of a proper thickness was 
fastened to the first nail, and from it drawn very tightly and 
twisted round the second, and so on with all the rest. ‘The 
nails were then driven home, and the trellis was perfectly 
firm.” 

The coping of walls need not project more than an inch or 
two: any shelter which the tree might require when in bloom 
can be supplied by movable coping boards, or netting or 
canvass placed against the wall. 

Subdivision walls in gardens might be constructed of lath 
and plaster, and stand at an angle of 55°, sloping to the sun 
like the roof ofa house. Mr. Henderson has been in the practice 
of training fruit trees on a sloping bank of earth, fronting the 
sun, and found them ripen ten days earlier than against a per- 
pendicular wall of the same aspect. Such walls require to be 
sheltered with thin canvass both day and night till the fruit is 
set; “for it is probable that the position of this wall may be as 
cold at night as that of a standard tree: but this can never 
detract from its claims, since it is not so much the shelter of a 


316 Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 


wall, as the reflection of the sun’s rays upon it, which brings 

fruit to perfection. These walls might be erected in gardens — 
in many different ways: they would look very well in front of 

a hedge, and the space underneath might be used as a mush- 

room house, a tool shed, or a storehouse for culinary roots 

during winter. Banks of earth might even be thrown up, 

and, after being paved with stone, and plastered, might be 

used as inclined walls. Steep terrace banks might also answer 

the same purpose.” 

In training fruit trees it should be a principal object to im- 
prove their climate; but the mode of training and pruning too 
generally in use at present is, in this respect, very defective. 
‘¢ By a constant cutting off of breast wood, especially in pear 
trees and the finer sorts of apples, and of course a continual 
provoking of the tree to push out more, the spurs become 
‘soon of an enormous length, and consequently the fruit they 
produce must hang at a considerable distance from the wall. 
Now, it can be proved, by applying a thermometer, that, at. 
the distance of several inches from the wall, the air is not 
hotter than the general air of the garden; and hence the evil 
of which I complain. It is not, indeed, uncommon to see the 
‘spurs of an old tree standing out like the teeth of a rake, or 
the bristled face of a cut hedge: nor is it to be wondered at 
that the fruit of such trees should be always small, and never 
-well flavoured.” 

Nothing can be of greater importance in the training of 
wall fruit trees than nailing their spurs close to the wall. 
“‘ In my opinion, it is owing neither to age, nor deficiency of 
soil, that many trees bear such small trifling fruit, but to an 
injudicious mode of training and pruning; and, instead of 
complaining that the spurs of a tree are too old, I would con- 
‘sider it rather an advantage to have old spurs, since the fruit 
of old trees, and of old wood, is sooner ripe, and much higher 
flavoured than that of young ones, provided always that it can 
be made to grow equally near the walls. i 

“‘ In order to prevent young trees from running into a num- 
ber of rough unmanageable spurs, the leading branches should 
never be laid in closer than from one to two feet apart, and 
then the intermediate spaces may be filled with bearing spurs, 
which, I once more repeat, ought to be always closely nailed 
to the wall.” 

In a PS., dated a year afterwards, Mr. Henderson in- 
forms us that he finds the difference of temperature between a 
sloping and perpendicular wall to be generally about 20°. 
‘Such walls might be framed of timber, plastered with Roman 


Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 317 


cement, and tarred and painted. If vines were planted in 
boxes or confined beds, in the manner suggested by our ‘cor- 
respondent F. N. B. (p.145.), we have very little doubt that, 
with a little protection by canvass or woollen netting in spring 
and autumn, they would ripen their fruit even in Scotland, 
For the above excellent communication, the Caledonian Society 
voted Mr. Henderson the London Hortieultural Society’s 
- medal for 1826. 


Art. II. Verhandlungen des Vereins zur Beforderung des Garten- 
baues in den Koniglich Preussischen Staaten. Transactions of 

. the Society for the Advancement of Gardening in the Royal Prus- 
sian States. Part. II. completing Vol. I. Berlin. 4to. 1824, 
7 plates. 

(Continued from p. 66.) 


46. Remarks on the Treatment of Cactus speciosus. By Mr.Coun- — 
sellor Fleischinger, of Berlin; with the Opinion of the Com- 
mittee. 


- M. Freiscuincerhad kept this plant for years in a hot-house 

without being able to, throw it into bloom, till at last he placed 
it in the open air during summer, when it made shorter but 
much stronger shoots than it had ever made in the hot-house; 
and in a year and ten weeks after he commenced this treat- 
ment, he had several strong flowers. He began this practice 
in 1815, and continued it with success till 1823, the date of 
his paper. 


47. Some Remarks on the Gaps arising by the Death or stinted 
Growth of some Species of Trees in the Leaf-wood Plantations of 
the Natural Garden at Berlin. By the Grand-Ducal Head-Gar- 
dener, M. Bosse, of Oldenburg; with the Opinion of the Com- 
mittee. 


The natural garden alluded to is a piece of ground laid out 
in the modern English style of landscape-gardening ; and leaf- 
woods (laubholzen) include both deciduous and evergreen 
trees with broad leaves, in contradistinction to needle-leaved 
woods (nadelholzen), which are composed chiefly of the. pine 
and fir tribe. Mr. Bosse states that gaps among bushes are 
not readily filled up by inserting new plants, however large, 
and that a much better mode is to lay down the branches of 
the adjoining bushes on all sides, or of such as are strongest, 
or are preferable in point of beauty or utility. In cases where 
the adjoining plants do not root readily from layers, or do not 
grow freely, the introduction of new plants must be resorted to ; 


318 Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, &c. 


and for this purpose he recommends such trees as grow rapidly. 
on an indifferent soil, enumerating 4’Inus incana, Salix daph- 
noides, and some other Saélices, Carpinus Bétulus, Méspilus 
Oxyacantha, Spirzea opulifolia, Prunus Padus, Hippophae 
rhamnoides, Vibarnum O’pulus, Cornus alba, Lonicéra Xylés- 
teum, Ribus odoratus, 4A cer rubrum, Psetdo-Plaétanus, and 
campéstre, Bétula alba and nigra, U’lmus americana, and Ro- 
binza Pseud- Acacia. 
“ In order to prevent the formation of gaps, and also to 
bring forth fine masses of foliage, it is necessary to avoid 
placing together sorts of trees or shrubs very much contrasted 
in form and modes of growth, thereby producing an unnatural 
diversity. Many gardeners anxiously endeavour so to inter- 
mix the German and North American trees, that no two in- 
dividuals of the same sort may stand together. Such planters 
have not the future, but only the present, before their eyes: 
they do not reflect that such a party-coloured mixture can 
never produce a picturesque effect, and that nature, when un- 
touched by the hand of art, always places together, in ever- 
varying numbers, forms and kinds suited to the inclination of 
the surface and the qualities of the soil. _ 

48. Culture and Use of the Tetragonia expansa, or New Zealand 
Spinach. By M. Otto, Director,of the Gardener’s School, and 
Inspector of the Botanic Garden. 

Sow the seeds in a hot-bed, and plant them out in mild 
weather; gather and dress as common spinach. 

49. Extract from the Transactions of the Society at their Meeting 

held on September 7. 1823. 

The Countess of Reden, of Buchwald, in Silesia, has sent 
fifty copies of M. Thouin’s pamphlet, On Laying out and 
Managing Nurseries of Fruit Trees, which are at the disposal 
of the Society at about 3d. each. 

(To be continued.) 


Art. III. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, 
Rural Architecture, &c., published since October last, with some 
Account of those considered the most interesting. 


Britain. 
Curtis’s Botanical Magazine, or Flower-Garden displayed; New Series. 
Edited by Dr. Hooker. In 8vo Numbers. 3s. 6d. coloured ; 3s. plain, 


; No. XI. for. November, contains 
2777 to 2783. — Barbacénia (M. de Barbacen, a govern. in Brazil) purpu- 
reus ; 6 and 1, and Hemodorex. A very rare plant with carex-like leaves 


Botanical Magazine. — Botanical Register. 319 


and lively purple flowers, which promises “to be a most valuable and inte- 
resting addition to our stoves.”’ - Twelve species of Barbacénia are known to 
MM. Spix and Martius; the present one differs from any of these, and is 
believed to be the first that has been cultivated. “ ‘The seeds were gathered 
from a bundle of Brazilian moss, by the Hon. and Rev. W. Herbert of 
Spofforth; and.some young plants being sent to Lord Milton’s collection 
at Wentworth House, they were there brought to flower under Mr. 
Cooper’s (Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 420.) judicious management, when a beau- 
tiful specimen was communicated to Dr. Hooker in the month of August, 
1827.”—Helianthus pubéscens. A perennial sunflower from Illinois, perfectly 
hardy, growing 8 ft. high, and deserving a place in every shrubbery. — T'ri- 
folium alpéstre. — Omalanthus (homalos, smooth, anthos, flower) ; Monce‘cia 
Monadélphia, and Huphorbidcee. A smooth shrub, with rhombeo-ovate 
acuminate leaves. From New Holland, to Dr. Graham, in 1824. Kept in 
the stove at Edinburgh, but probably fit for the green-house or cold-pit. — 
O’xalis bipunctata. “ Perhaps only a luxuriant state of O’xalis violacea.”— 
Cerastium Biebersteini, Bieberstein’s Mouse-ear Chickweed. From the 
Taurian Alps. — Ibéris Tenoredna, ‘Tenore’s Candy-tuft. From the Neapo- 
litan territory ; and “an equally desirable plant for the garden, and espe-. 
cially for rockwork, with the J. nana.” 


No. XII. for December, contains 

2784 to 2790. — Caméllia reticulata. Quarto size. — Nicotidna nocti- 
flora, Night-flowering Tobacco. An annual from the Andes, with purple 
and white flowers of a powerful fragrance. — Sisyrinchium chilénse. — 
Malva obtusifolia.— Tbéris nana. — Maxillaria racemosa; Orchidex. — 
Trifolium olympicum. As inadvertent omissions in this Number, the 
duration of 7'rifolium, propagation and culture of most of the species, and - 
the natural order of Sisyrinchium and Malva, are omitted, while to Ca- 
méllia, and all the others, the natural order is given. We notice these 
omissions, hoping, at the same time, not to give offence, for no man values 
Dr. Hooker more highly than we do, but simply in confirmation of what 
we have stated in a subsequent page. (p.327.) This number completes 
vol. i. of the new series, and is dedicated by Dr. Hooker to Robert Bare 
clay, Esq., of Bury Hill, under whose auspices the first series of the Bota- 
nical Magazine was begun, forty years ago, byits original projector and editor, 
Mr. William Curtis. 


Edwards’s Botanical Register. Continued by John Lindley, F.L.S. Insvo 
Numbers. 4s. coloured. 


No. CLITI. for November, contains 

11035 to 1109. — Jacardnda tomentosa; 14 and 2, and Bignonidce@. A 
handsome half-deciduous shrub, hitherto kept in the stove, but probably 
hardy enough for the conservatory, with purple flowers in June.—Malacho- 
déndron (malakos, soft, dendron, tree ; leaves) ovatum. —Rosa Banksie¢ litea, 
Lady Banks’s Yellow Rose, the Wong-mo-ne-he-vong of the Chinese. From 
Canton, by the Horticultural Society’s collector, Mr. John Damper Parks, 
in 1823. More prolific in flowers than the white variety, though less 
fragrant ; rather more hardy ; leaves of a deeper and richer green ; flowers 
freely against a wall. “Strikes readily from cuttings, and will probably 
prove a good stock for budding other roses upon.” Altogether a most 
desirable shrub. — Tviipa montana. A crimson tulip from the moun- 
tains of Persia, said to be distinct from any species previously described. — 
Collinsia grandiflora (fig. 110. facing p.322.); 14 and 2, and Scrophularinz. 
From the dry banks of the Colombia river, by Mr. Douglas, the Horticultu- 
ral Society’s collector. “One of the most beautiful hardy annuals. with 
which we are acquainted, covering the ground with a carpet, as it were, of 


320 Botanical Register. 


blue, and purple, and white, during the months of June and July.” — Mau-- 
randia Barclazana; 14 and 2, and Scrophularinez. A beautiful climber: 
from Mexico to Robert Barclay, Esq., in whose garden it attained the 
height of 6 ft. on some pea-sticks in the open border, flowering from 
July until it was destroyed by frost. — Lupinus bicolor, A pretty annual, 
not exceeding a foot in height. From the interior of the country, about 
the Colombia river, by Mr. Douglas, the indefatigable and singularly suc- 
cessful collector of the Horticultural Society. 


No. CLIV. for December, contains 
1110 to 1116.— Gesnéria Douglasii. An elegant deciduous herbaceous 
plant from Rio Janeiro, in 1824. Its flowers are brick-coloured, with 
brown spots; they appear in abundance for about two months, and the 
plant afterwards dies down to the root. “It requires the heat of the stove, 
and is propagated with great difficulty by its leaves. It was named, in a’ 
paper ‘read before the Horticultural Society in October, 1826, and subse- 
quently published in the Transactions of that body, in honour of its inde- 
fatigable and intelligent discoverer, to whose single efforts in examining the 
rich vegetation of the countries lying in the vicinity of the river Colombia, 
amidst difficulties and dangers that would have appalled a less ardent mind, 
our gardens are indebted for an immense store of new and beautiful hardy 
plants.”? — Cyanélla odoratissima; Asphodeléa. A Cape bulb, with pk 
flowers in July and August, and of the usual culture. — Sinningia guttata ; 
Gesneriée. A herbaceous thick-stemmed plant from Brazil, with white 
flowers, spotted with red, appearing nearly all the summer. Damp stove; 
decayed vegetable earth; division of the roots. — Brachystélma spatu- 
latum; Asclepiadée. A tuberous-rooted, fleshy-stalked plant, with singu- 
lar-looking purplish flowers in June and July. Hot and dry stove; old 
rubbish; and kept free from damp when not in a growing state. — Coto- 
neaster microphylla. A beautiful evergreen prostrate shrub, about a foot 
high, from Nepal, “ clothed with a deep glossy foliage, which no cold 
will impair, and when in blossom, in June, strewed with snow-white 
flowers, which, reposing on a rich couch of green, have so brilliant an 
appearance, that a poet would compare them to diamonds lying on a bed. 
of emeralds. It is deserving of notice, that the peculiar flavour which, in 
Drupacez, is attributed to the presence of prussic acid, is so strong in this, 
plant, that, before flowering, it would be taken for a Primus; a remarkable 
fact in_a tribe of plants which are reputed to possess, exclusively, malic, 
instead of prussic acid.’? — Acacia impréssa. — Convélvulus albivénius. - 
Stove; cuttings. “ One of the most desirable of the convolvulus tribe.” 
According to our ideas of what a botanical periodical ought to be, this 
number of the Botanical Register is more perfect than the corresponding 
one of the Botanical Magazine; but still we should greatly prefer, in both ° 
works, a regular set of heads, each commencing a paragraph, and, as sub- 
sequently suggested (p. 527.), each head introduced, whether there was any 
thing to say under it or not. These heads might be: 1. Systematic name and_ 
authority. 2. English name. 3. Synonyms, systematic and English, with the 
French and German names, or the name of the plant in its native country, 
if known. 4. Specific character. 5. Habit; as whether tree, shrub, herb, 
twiner, trailer, annual, &c. &c.. 6. Native country, year of introduction, , 
and habitation in a natural state. 7. Habitation in the garden. 8. Height..- 
9. Time: of flowermg: 10. Colour. of the flower. 11. Propagation. 
12. Soil and culture. 13. Popular character and miscellaneous inform- 
ation. We do not give these heads as the best; but merely throw them 
out as explanatory of our meaning for others to improve on. No man is 
more fit than Mr. Lindley to make the Botanical Register what it ought 
to be. Ves Be Ln he =F oe ibs Seat ‘ y 


- Lay = en eat 


Botanical Cabinet.— Flora Australasica, $c. 321> 


Botanical Cabinet. By Messrs. Loddiges. In 4to and svo Parts. 5s. and 2s. 6d. 


Part CXXVITI. for November, contains 

1261 to 1270. — Crate gus spathulata. A thorn from North America, 
It is surprising that this genus is so little cultivated in shrubberies. Messrs. 
Loddiges have upwatds of sixty species and varieties in their arboretum, 
all of which are beautiful, and so obviously of the thorn kind, that the 
most superficial observer would never mistake them for any other tree. An 
acre laid out as a thornery would form an interesting episode to the general 
scenery of a pleasure-ground. — Uvularia sessilifolia. — Paonia mdilis. — 
Chionanthus virginica. The seeds of this tree are two years before they 
vegetate. — Mesembryanthemum inctrvum. — Pancratium Amdncaes. — 
Campanula /inifolia. — Spirz’a bélla. A beautiful hardy shrub from Ne- 
pal in 1821, with pink flowers in May. — Musse‘nda glabra. — Erica 
eriocéphala (erion, wool, kephale, head; spike of flowers). 

Part CX XVIII. for December, contains 

1271 to 1280.— Spire'a trilobata. A beautiful hardy shrub from Si- 
beria, in 1821. — Alstroeméria Hookéri. “ We feel much pleasure in fol- 
lowing Mr. Sweet in giving this plant a specific name; for who has merited 
so much from botanists as Dr. Hooker, by the number, elegance, and accu- 
racy of his works.” — Arétia pubéscens. A minute and very pretty plant, 
lately from the Alps of Switzerland, rarely more than 11n. high, with 
white flowers in June and July. — Erica Plukenetidna.— Caméllia sasdn- 
qua. ‘“ The Chinese are said to mix the flowers with their tea, to increase 
its fragrance ; but in a fresh state they are quite scentless.” — Epidéndrum 
ellipticum. — Dillwynia ericifolia. — Astragalus aristatus. — Mesembryan- 
themum licerum. — /#’sculus flava. A very ornamental tree. 


Flora Australasica. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. &c. Monthly. 3s. coloured ; 
2s, plain. 


No. VI. for November, contains 

21 to 24. — Eudésmia (ex, well, desme, a bundle; the stamens); Myr- 
tacee Myrtée. A handsome, upright, evergreen shrub, with beautiful 
bluish-white leaves with red edges ; of the usual culture, and likely to suc- 
ceed in the open air in our miider counties.— Dryandra nervosa; Proteacez. 
A handsome, dwarf, bushy, evergreen shrub, from the south coast of New 
Holland to the Clapton nursery, by Mr. W. Baxter, the indefatigable 
collector of Francis Henchman, Esq. F.L.S.H.S. The usual culture. — 
Kennédia coccinea. A weakly-growing, but very handsome, scarlet pea- 
flowered twiner, easily propagated by cuttings in sand, and likely to become 
one of our most splendid green-house climbers. ( fig. 111. facing p. 522.)— 
Acacia ornithéphora. An upright evergreen shrub, resembling A. armata. 


No. VII. for December, contains 

25to 28.—Pittdésporum (pitta, resin or pitch, sporon, seed) falvum ; Good- 
enovie. Dwarf spreading evergreen, with yellow flowers. — Lechenailtia 
formosa. A bushy, little, heath-like, suffrutescent plant, thickly clothed with 
small evergreen leaves, and producing solitary flowers of a bright scarlet 
tinged with orange. — Hakew saligna; Proteaceze. A handsome, upright, 
evergreen shrub, with white sweet-scented flowers, resembling those of the 
hawthorn. — Kutaxia (good order; leaves) pingens; Legumindose Papi- 
lionaceze. A small, evergreen, heath-like shrub, with long slender branches, 
thickly clothed with dark green leaves, the flowers and terminal spikes of 
a bright yellow and dark orange. All these plants are of the usual culture. 


Geranidicee. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. &c. Monthly. 3s. each. 


Nos. XCV. and XCVI. for November and December, contain 
377 to 384. — Pelargonium Leghkécke, Mrs. Legh Keck’s Stork’s-bill.— 


Vou. IIT. — No. 11. Y 


322 -. British Flower-Garden. — Cistinéa, &c. «' 


Pelargoniumrdilatatum, campylosépalon (kampylos, curved, sepal, calyx leaf ), 
Charlwoddii, exornatum, cartilagineum, crispum, and Barclayanum. 


The British Flower-Garden. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. &c. In svo Numbers. 
Monthly. 5s. each. 


No. LVII. for November, contains 

225 to 228. —Ampheréphis (amphi, on all sides, erepho, to cover) inter- 
media; Compésite Carduaceze Vernonidcee. A half-hardy annual from 
Brazil, with globular tufts of purple flowers in autumn. Stove through the 
winter, and cuttings in spring. — Argemone grandiflora, An annual, “a 
grand plant ”’ from Mexico to “ the superb collection of R. Barclay, Esq.,” 
with large white flowers, from July to the middle of October. — Caragana 
frutéscens; Legumindse Papilionaceee Lote Galégex. ( fig.112.) A 
handsome bushy shrub, with yellow flowers in May; cultivated since 1752, 
but “ still continues’ scarce, as do the other species of this genus, owing, 
principally, to their being so little known; the generality of gardeners not 
being sufficiently acquainted with plants, particularly hardy shrubs, to be 
enabled to select a pleasing variety, but fill their shrubberies with a great num- 
ber of common things, of very few sorts, many of which are altogether use- 
less, instead of selecting a pleasing variety, which would scarcely cost more, 
and would require no more care or trouble in cultivation.” — Alstroeméria 
hirtélla; Amaryllidez. A handsome half-hardy perennial, with tuberous 
roots resembling potatoes, from Mexico, raised by Mr. Sweet, from seeds 
given him by Mrs. Manners Sutton, the Archbishop of Canterbury’s lady. 
Green, red, and yellow flowers, from August to October. (See p, 298.) 


i No. LVIII. for December, contains 
229 to 232. — Gastrocarpha (gaster, a belly, karphos, chaff; receptacle) 
runcinata ; Composite Labiatiflore. A handsome strong-growing annual, 
with white flowers, from Chile. —Chelone rosea; Scrophularinee. Two 
feet high, and very beautiful. — Salpigléssis straminea; Solanew. Nearly 
allied to Pettnia, and of easy culture. — Phldx refléxa; Polemoniacez. 
Dark lake (inclining to purple) flowers, and very handsome. 


_ Cistinte. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. In svo, every alternate Month. 3s. 


No. XV. for November, contains 

- 57 to 60. — Hudsonia tomentdsa. A short, densely tufted, suffruticose 
plant, about a span high, from New Jersey, where it grows in white sand, 
with.a small mixture of decayed vegetable soil. — Helianthemum 4yssopi- 
folium. One of the strongest-growing species of true helianthemum. — 
Cistus florentinus. Shrubby, white flowers; half hardy, and. cuttings. — 
Helidnthemum serpyllifolium. Yellow flowers. Found wild in Somerset- 
shire. Cuttings and light sandy soil. 


The Botanic Garden. By B. Maund. In small 4to. Large, 1s. 6d. ; small, 1s. 


Nos. XX XV. and XXXVI. for November and December, contain 
Dianthus Caryophyllus, Claytonia virginica, Lathyrus tuberosus, Mo- 
narda didyma, Scutellaria Colamne, Dianthus deltoides, Chrysanthemum 
coronarium. 


The Florists Guide and Cultivators Directory, &c. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. 
&c. In Monthly Numbers. 3s. coloured; 2s. plain. 


Nos. V. and VI. for November and December, contain 

17 to 24. — Styles’s Hero Pink, Burns the Poet’s Ranunculus, Don Mi- 
guel Tulip (fig. 113.), Franklin’s Queen of Hearts Carnation ( jig. 114.), 
Hall’s Tarrara, and Hedge’s Britannia Auricula, Princess Charlotte’s Ceno- 
taph Tulip, and Nomia’s Ranunculus. 


To face p. $23. 


Don Miguel 


Royal Apricot 


ake 


a 


~ “south of France, for the sake of its fruit. The fruit of the bitter variety is 


Medical Botany. 323 


Medical Botany, §¢c. By John Stevenson, M.D., and James Morss 
Churchill, Esq., Surgeon. In Monthly Numbers. 5s. 6d. 


No. XI. for November, contains 

41 to 44.— Himulus Lipulus, the Hop, the tincture of which “frequently 
induces sleep, and quiets nervous irritation, without causing costiveness, or 
impairing, like opium, the tone of the stomach, and merely increasing 
primary disease.’? — Sindpis Alba and nigra. “ As substitutes for either the 
black or common mustard, most of the Cruciferae may be used, especially 
the Sinapis arvénsis, Myacrum sativum, Sisymbrium officindle, the Hrysi- 
mum, Lepidium, Turritis, Brassica, Sindpis orientalis, chinénsis, and dras- 
sictta. ‘The latter is commonly cultivated in China. The RAphanus Ra-~ 
phanfstrum, or wild radish, is said to be so complete a substitute, that the 
seeds are often separated in the process of cleaning grain by farmers, and 
sold to the mustard or oil-millers, who dispose of it as Durham mustard.” 
It may be useful in country places, where medicines are not at hand, to 
know that a large tea-spoontul of the powder of mustard seed, mixed in 
water, is a powerful incentive to vomiting. In cases of indigestion and 
habitual costiveness, a tea-spoonful of the whole seed, two or three times 
a day, has been found to restore the stomach and intestines to the regular 
performance of their functions ; but the injudicious manner in which mus~- 
tard has lately been lauded for this purpose, has led to the abuse of a useful 
remedy, and injured the mucous membrane of the stomach. “ Whitehead’s 
* Essence of Mustard’ consists of oil of turpentine, camphor, and spirits of 
rosemary, to which is added a little flour of mustard. His ‘ Essence of 
Mustard Pills’ are Balsam of Tolu, with resin !” 

Amyedalus communis, the Sweet and Bitter Almond. A native of China 
anil Most "parts of Asia and Barbary. ‘The sweet is much cultivated in the 


imported chiefly from Mogadore. Given in substance, it is exceedingly 
poisonous, producing vertigo, head-ache, &c., like laurel water. The kernel 
of the sweet almond contains a large proportion of oil, which is more pure 
and less rancid than olive oil. Hence its use in perfumery: Macassar oil 
being merely oil of almonds, coloured red with alkanet root ; and Russia 
oil being the same thing, rendered milky by a small quantity of ammonia of 
potash, and scented with oil of roses. Hence, also, the use of this oil, or that 
of lavender, by draughtsmen, in tracing drawings on common letter-paper. 
The oil renders the paper quite transparent ; and, after the tracing is taken, 
it may be completely evaporated by holding the paper a minute or two 
before a fire. ‘The expressed oil of bitter almonds does not differ from that 
afforded by the sweet. The poisonous quality of bitter almonds is owing to 
their containing a considerable proportion of prussic acid.” ‘The nostrums 
for eruptions and cutaneous diseases, sold under the title of Gowland’s 
Lotion, Milk of Roses, Caledonian Cream, Kalydor, &c., consist merely of 
a solution of the oxymuriate of mercury in almond emulsion, with a pro- 
portion of sugar of lead, or white oxide of bismuth. ‘They are thus 
possessed of certain stimulant and repellent properties; and, though blunted. 
in part by the medium in which they are involved, cannot fail to be highly 
active on the skin, and consequently injurious.” 

Capsicum (hapto, to bite ; pungency of fruit) A4nnuum, Annual Capsicum, 
or Guinea Pepper. A powerful stimulant; most advantageously given in 
atonic gout, in palsy, dropsy, and in the debilitated stages of fever. “ All the 
species of Capsicum yield a spice of the most pungent quality; but the well- 
known condiment sold under the name of Cayenne Pepper, is prepared 
from the fruit of the Capsicum bacedtum, or Bird Pepper, which is a shrubby 
plant, of humble growth, not unlike the present species, but producing 
small ovate berries. These are gathered when ripe, are dried in the sun, 

Vig 


324 Frost’s Oration before the Medico- Botanical Society. 


pounded, and mixed with salt. The composition is then put into stopped 
bottles, and is commonly known by the name of ‘ Cayan Butter.’ A mix- 
ture of sliced cucumbers, eschalots, or onions, cut very small, a little lime 
juice or Madeira wine, with a few pods of bird pepper, well mashed and 
mixed with the liquor, seldom fails to excite the most languid appetite. 
In the West Indies, it is called a man-dram. A useful and elegant con- 
diment is made, by dissolving common salt in a strong infusion of capsicum, 
previously strained, and afterwards allowing it to crystallise.”” 


No. XII. for December, contains 

Méntha viridis, Pulégium, and Piperita, used for distilling peppermint 
and pennyroyal water. — Convélvulus jaldpa, the root of which furnishes 
the well-known Jalap.— Styrax officinale, which produces the fragrant 
balsam called Storax; and Polygonum bistérta, the root of which is a 
powerful astringent, and is occasionally used in fevers.—The figures in this, 
as in the preceding numbers of Medical Botany, are beautifully coloured, 
and, if equalled, are not surpassed by those of any botanical periodical of 
the day. 


Frost, John, Esq. F.A.S. ¥.LS. F.H.S. of Emanuel College, Cambridge, 

. Member of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, of the Royal Asiatic 
Society of Great Britain and Ireland, Secretary to the Royal Humane 
Society, Director of the Medico-Botanical Society of London, Honorary 
Member of the Medical Society of Baltimore, and Lecturer on Botany 
at St. Thomas’s Hospital: An Oration delivered before the Medico-Bo- 
tanical Society of London, at the commencement of their Highth Session, 
Friday, 12th October, 1827. London. 4to, pp. 27. 


This Society, which has now existed seven years, and contains among its 
officers some names of the highest respectability, was “ instituted in conse- 
quence of the almost total neglect of the study of botany by the members 
of the medical profession.” Botany, as a branch of science, Mr. Frost 
considers as having claims of the first importance on the attention of medical 
men. ‘The object of the Medico-Botanical Society, therefore, is to show 
that the medical student ought to study plants scientifically ; that the uses 
and effects of plants are imperfectly known, and that this defect ought to 
be remedied. A farther object is to promulgate such discoveries as are, 
from time to time, made with regard to the application of plants to the 
curing of diseases. 

It 1s certain that medical men, in general, know very little of botany ; 
and, from a letter to Mr. Frost, by Sir Anthony Carlisle, at once an eminent 
surgeon and able philosopher, given as a note to the Oration, it would 
appear that a knowledge of that science was calculated to render the study of 
medicine essential services. Sir A. Carlisle is “ sanguine enough to believe 
that the vegetable kingdom comprises remedies for all our bodily disorders, 
short of those necessarily incurable alterations of structure in vital parts, 
which forbid all rational hope. Vegetable drugs possess the remarkable 
and, perhaps, the exclusive power of acting directly upon the brain and 
nerves: and, hence, it is probable that specific remedies for Tetanus, or 
even for Hydrophobia, may be yet concealed in plants ; and, although their 
ultimate discovery may be accidental, the lately published Materia Medica, 
by Dr. Ainslie, brings to our view so much extensive research and varied 
learning, that we need not despair of success from professional enquiries.” 
Mr. Frost deserves praise for his zeal and activity in the cause of medical 
botany ; but, as he is a friend of ours, we shall also question his taste on the 
subject of adulation to certain exalted personages, who, but for their rank 
and fortune, would never have been heard of. Perhaps, however, this is the 
true way of catering for the power and influence of such persons; and 
nothing is to be effected without power. 


-The Pomological Magazine. 325 


The Pomological Magazine. In 8vo Numbers, Monthly. 4 figures. 5s. 
coloured; 3s. 6d. plain. Edited by two gentlemen intimately connected 
with the Horticultural Society. 


We have before (p. 89.) announced this work, which is to contain “ four 
coloured figures, one of which will be occasionally double, of the finest 
varieties of fruit cultivated in Great Britain. ‘These will be accompanied 
by an accurate account of their history, and as full a description of their 
wood, flowers, leaves, and fruit, as may be necessary to enable the public to 
distinguish the varieties from each other.” 

An advertisement states that, “ as the object of the work is utility, the 
price must be low, and the figures in consequence relieved of all illustra- 
tions of a secondary character. The winter wood, the leaves, and the 
flowers, which are almost always as well understood from description as 
they can be from representation, will, therefore, be omitted or introduced 
as occasion or convenience may require ; for it is notorious to all who are 
conversant with pomology, that, in works at present of the highest autho- 
rity, these characters are universally consulted from the letter-press, and 
not from the plates. The introduction of them at all times would add 
considerably to the expense of the work, without any adequate increase of 
utility : they will, however, be added whenever any real advantage is likely 
to be derived from their representation; and in all such cases the public 
will be able to place implicit confidence in their accuracy.” Of the two 
excuses for not giving “ illustrations of a secondary character,” that which 
is founded on “ works at present of the highest authority” appears to us 
the less valid. If precedent is to go for much in science, a ready excuse 
will always be at hand for neglecting improvement. We deny that the 
winter wood, the leaves, and the flowers are almost always as well under- 
stood from description as from pictorial representation. If it is worth while 
that they should be understood, why should not delineation be as effective 
in their case as in that of fruits ? Apples and peaches, for instance, are cer- 
tainly as different in blossom as in fruit. However, after giving the subject 
more consideration than we had done at the time we made the remarks on 
the secondary illustrations referred to (p. 89.), we have come to a conclu- 
sion so different from what we anticipated, that we consider the question 
of secondary illustrations in the Pomological Magazine of no great conse- 
quence, convinced as we are that the plan of that work is by no means cal- 
culated to attain its professed objects. 

The difficulty of distinguishing varieties of fruits of the same species 
from each other is acknowledged by every horticulturist. Some individuals 
who have cultivated, fruited, and studied extensive collections of apples, 
pears, or plums, may know at sight a considerable number of varieties : but, 
in general, only a very few sorts are known by one individual; and, in the 
great majority of cases, gentlemen’s gardeners can speak with confidence 
regarding those sorts only which are under their care. The reason of this 
is, that the shades which distinguish varieties are so fleeting as not to be re- 
tained in memory, or onlyretained to a very limited extent. An apple maybe 
distinguished from twenty other apples, all very much alike, when the whole 
twenty are placed together before.the eye; but any one of the twenty 
taken apart, and delineated and described, however perfectly, will hardly 
present any marks sufficiently distinctive to be remembered, and by which 
it may be recognised with any degree of certainty. Those differences in 
plants which are called specific may be recognised from independent or 
absolute verbal description; but differences between fruits and flowers 
which are varieties of one species, can only be recognised with any degree 
of certainty by comparative ocular inspection, either of the objects them- 
selves, or of delineations or models of them. 

y 3 


326 


The Pomological Magazine. 


This being the case, it appears to us that the best mode of conveying a useful 


knowledge of the different varieties of fruits, 
or of florist’s flowers, would be to give repre- 
sentations of the fruits or flowers in groups of 
such as bear the greatest resemblance to one 
another; and, if the different varieties were 
also distinguishable by the blossoms, leaves, 
buds, and wood, to give separate and corre- 
sponding representations of these. For this 
purpose a work in folio, or in a tabular form, 
would be better adapted than any other, 
as the greater the number that were brought 
together in one table or group, the more easy 
would be the comparison. To show how 
this might be done in the case of pears, for 
example, we may suppose the first table to 
consist of a sheet of paper 2 ft. square, and 
to be divided into squares of 2 in. each. 
(fig. 116.) The number of squares on a table 


Magdalom. July. 


August. 


116 


Crawform. August. 


Ambrine. August. 


of that size will be one hundred and forty-four, and in these squares may 
be delineated the fruits, with their stalks, of one hundred and forty-four 


117 


Crawform. Aug, 


aAmbrine. Aug. 


different sorts, the name being written above 
each, with the times of ripening and keeping. 


A second table, of the same number of 


squares, may contain sections of the fruits, 
and specimens of the seeds (fig. 117.), with the 
names, &c., as before. 


A third table, composed of the same num- 


Magdalom. July. 
August. 


time, of these 
one hundred 
and forty-four 


ber of squares, may contain the blossoms, and 
state of the wood and leaf buds at blossoming 


118 


Crawform. April. 


Ambrine. April. 


similar squares. ( Jig. 118.) 


A fourth table, of the same size, may 
consist of a similar number of squares, with 


119 


Crawform. April, Ambrine. April. 


sorts, with 1 ad 
their names ( : 
in the same OY) Wy 


order, and in 


y OD = 


Zaire. April. 


the front, ) 
back, andi@} 
side views 
of a leaf) |S 
or tuft of AROS 
leaves in 
each square. 
( fig. 119.) 

A fifth table, of the same size, may consist 
of one hundred and forty-four parallelo- 
grams, each 4in. by 1in., and each contain- 
ing a specimen of the summer wood and 
leaves. (fig. 120.) 

A sixth table may contain similar paral- 
lelograms for the winter wood, taken at 
Christmas, and the blossom buds, taken on 


the 1st of March, when the blossom buds are considerably swelled. (fig. 121.) 


The Pomological Magazine. 327 


A seventh table, in squares like the first, may contain an outline, on a 
small scale, of the general form taken by the tree when grown as a stand- 
ard; or, if generally trained as an espalier 120 
or on a wall, it may be represented in : 
miniature, and of a certain fixed age, say | Crgvform-) Aritine. Mapdatom.| Zaire. 
fifteen years, applicable to all the trees, of 
by which their comparative rapidity of 
growth would be readily understood. 
(fig. 122.) This last table probably might 
not be published for some years after the 
other tables. 

In the first six tables all the objects 
should be represented of their natural 
size. The subjects of the seventh table 
should all be of the same age, and di- 
minished to the same scale. The letter- 
press description should be ample, and, 
to prevent it from being incomplete, or 
in\//any) partineglected,, ‘the)sparticulars! sa mean Gn ied 
of each fruit should be arranged under certain heads, which might be in 
italics; and which heads should never be omitted, even though nothing 

121 may be said under some of them, in order 
to prove to the reader that they have not 
eS er Magdatom. Zaire | been forgotten. These heads may be, 

1. Name, synonyms, and reference to. 
books and figures; 2. Origin and history ;. 
5. Popular character of the fruit and tree ;, 
4. Fruit and seeds described; 5. Time of? 
ripening and keeping ; 6. Flavour and use. 
in the dessert or kitchen; 7. Blossoms; 
8. Leaves; 9. Wood and buds; 10. Form 
of tree; 11. Peculiarities of growth and. 
culture; 12. Comparative abundance or 
rarity in British and foreign gardens. For 
want of having a fixed number of heads 
of this sort, to recall to mind what is 
necessary 122 
March 1. | March 1. | March 1. | Marchi. | to consti- 
tuteacom- 
plete description and history, component 
items will unavoidably now and then es- 
cape notice. As a proof of this, we have 
only to refer to the Botanical Magazine, 
Botanical Register, and other: botanical pe- 
riodicals of the day, where, for want of such 
guides, the most useful particulars of the 
plants figured, such as time of flowering, 
mode of propagation, habitation in the 
garden, &c., are sometimes inadvertently 
omitted. 

It appears to us that tables of the above 
description, even though not coloured, 
would enable a gardener to make out any particular variety of apple,, 
pear, cherry, or plum, better than detached figures in an octavo volume, 
which cannot be brought together under one view: but, if such tables 
were coloured, we are persuaded they would surpass in usefulness any 
work. on fruits that has hitherto appeared or been projected. Supposing 


y 4 


Crawform. Ambrine. 


348 The Pomological Magazine. 


= gardener to have a pear tree with ripe fruit, the name of which he 
wished to ascertain; first, he would compare an average specimen of the 
fruit, leaves, and young wood with tables 1. 4. and 5., and, having fixed on 
what he considered the sort, prove it by dissection and comparison with 
table 2. Next he would recur to tasting and comparing with the written 
description. At Christmas he would prove his name by the old wood, 
table 6.; in March by the leaf buds, blossom buds, and expanded blossoms, 
table 5.; andin June by the full-grown wood and young leaves, as in table 5. 
With regard to the expense of such tables, we have ascertained from 
our engravers, Messrs. Vizetelly and Branston of Fleet Street, that they 
might be printed in colours, in Savage’s manner (Gard. Mag., vol. il. 
p-197.), at far less expense than they could becoloured by hand ; and, though 
such coloured tables would not be so refined imitations of nature as 
drawings, they would come very near them, and probably be sufficient for 
every useful purpose. But, supposing them to be printed from copper or 
by the lithographic process, every person acquainted with the subject will 
allow that they could be produced a great deal cheaper than by the system 
of separate plates for each variety of fruit. We have before mentioned 
(Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 197.) that similar tables, printed in colours, might 
be composed of florist’s flowers, such as tulips, hyacinths, chrysanthemums, 
&c. An example, on a small scale, and therefore comparatively imperfect, 
has been given in a former page. (See the cuts facing p. 522.) 
If it were desirable, it would be a very easy, and not an extravagant busi- 
' ness, to produce models of tables 1. 2. and 6. Moulds, of the size of the 
tables, might turn out models in plaster of Paris; and these, when dressed 
and prepared, might probably be coloured on a large scale, by successive 
tints applied to the moulds, and transferred from them to the models, by 
‘returning the latter to their matrices. This, however, may perhaps be too 
speculative a subject to mention, without going into greater details than we 
have room for. 

Supposing the Horticultural Society, or, what we consider the same 
thing, the “two gentlemen intimately connected with it” who edit the 
Pomological Magazine, were disposed to adopt the tabular method, then, as 
they have already a great number of drawings and models of the commoner 
fruits, they might begin, at any period of the year, by publishing tables 
1. and 2.3 and, as trees of all the sorts are in the Chiswick garden, tables 
5. to 6. inclusive could be got from nature in the course of a year after- 
wards, and table 7. might stand over for the present. Having given tables 
of apples, pears, plums, cherries, peaches, nectarines, apricots, gooseberries, 
currants, raspberries, and strawberries, the four last of a smaller size, they 
might then take grapes and pine-apples on a larger size, and, lastly, the less 
common fruits, putting different species on a table. The probability is, that 
such tables would be purchased by every nurseryman, and be as common 
among gentlemen’s gardeners as we hope a tabular Gardener’s Kalendar 
now publishing by Mr. Ridgeway will be. 

Having completed such tables, and greatly reduced the number of fruits, 
or rather of names of fruits, at present in cultivation in the nurseries, a 
Pomological Magazine might then be commenced, to bring into notice new 
objects, and to serve as a sort of perpetual appendix to the tables, as the 
Gardener’s Magazine does to the Encyclopedia of Gardening. The use of 
such tables to the nurseryman and the country gardener would be imme- 
diately felt : but the plan of the magazine is such, that, even if it were exe- 
cuted, it could not supply the place of the tables; because the different 
varieties could never be properly compared together. The plan of giving 
the fruit, with the leaves, blossoms, wood, and other secondary illustra- 
tions, on the same plate, is less susceptible of perfection than that of giving 
each kind of illustration in a separate group ; because it may often happen 


The Pomological Magazine. $29 


that the winter wood and the blossom of spring have been forgotten 
at the proper times; and every one acquainted with the getting up 
of publications knows the difficulty of getting plates prepared, and the 
frequent imperfections that result from casual neglect. By giving each 
kind of secondary illustration by itself at a particular season, the greater 
simplicity of the objects might reasonably be argued to produce greater 
perfection and greater accuracy. The plan of publishing the. different 
species of fruits, such as pine-apples, apricots, apples, and strawberries, as 
in No. J. of the Pomological Magazine, may be suitable enough for the 
miscellany of a magazine, but, in point of general utility, it is bad; because 
there are many persons, who would feel highly gratified in having a table 
or a book of apples and pears, who would feel little interest in pictures of 
pines or grapes. On the other hand, if such tables as we have described 
of all the principal fruits were once published, they would become stand- 
ards of nomenclature and properties, to which new fruits described in a 
Pomological Magazine might be referred, in order to indicate their com- 
parative character and merits. In publishing fruits or florist’s flowers in a 
magazine, we should still adopt the system of squares, in order that those 
who chose it might cut out the squares and mount them as appendices to 
the tables to which they are referable. 

It must be evident to any one who has seen No.I. of the Pomological 
Magazine, that, though there is less secondary illustration to each particu- 
lar fruit than there would be in the tables, yet, for the sake of effect, there is 
necessarily more engraving and colouring toeach fruit than the tables would 
require for the sake of utility. This circumstance, independently of every 
other, will ever render the plan of publishing each fruit on a separate plate 
more expensive than the tabular form; and if we take the first number of 
the Pomological Magazine as a specimen, and suppose that the hardy fruits 
are to be reduced to an average of 144 of each of the kinds before enu- 
merated, this will give 1440 sorts, which, at four sorts for 5s. or 3s. 6d., 
amount to 95/.'or 66/. 10s. By the tabular method, printed in Savage’s 
manner, we have ascertained that table 1., of 144 sorts, supposing a sale of 
1500, might be given for 1/., and the other tables for 10s. each. Of course, 
tables of gooseberries, strawberries, &c., would be smaller and cheaper. 

Next to publishing such tables, the Horticultural Society would do most 
good by publishing a select descriptive list of fruits, and selling to every 
nurseryman plants or grafts of these sorts, to propagate from for the pub- 
lic. Two great and increasing evils the public expect the Horticultural 
‘Society to lessen; first, the actual number of fruits in cultivation; and, 
secondly, the numerous names by which one fruit is known or disguised in 
different parts of the country, and even in the same nursery. 

We have thrown out these hints for others to improve on, and we shall 
be happy to have the opinion of those of our readers who have attended 
to this subject. We shall only add that, since the above was written, we 
have had an opportunity, through the kindness of Mr. Forsyth, of looking 
over all the works on fruits which have been published in Europe, and even 
all the editions of these works, from the Pomona of Batty Langley, in 1729, 
and the Pomologia of Johann Herman Knoop, in 1758, to Hooker’s Po- 
mona Londinensis, in 1818; and these works have served to confirm our 
judgment in the view we have taken. It is remarkable that Langley and 
Knoop have, to a certain extent, anticipated our system, by giving, in folio 
plates, collections of fruits ranged together according to the time of ripen- 
ing; and Langley has, in some of his plates, given collections of wood and 
of leaves. A number of botanical authors of the same age, as Morrison, 
Barrelier, and Gesner, applied the same principle to the figuring of plants ; 
and we shall hereafter show how this practice may be imitated by the 
-moderns with advantage. In the progress of science, the first step and the 


330 The Pomological Magazine. 


last are generally right; the first is in the road of nature from instinctive 
impulse, the latter from the dictates of reason and experience. 


Nos. I. and IT. for November and December, contain 

1. The Wave-leaved Pine, from the Bristol nursery, but of unknown 
origin ; distinguished by its flaccid leaves, but in other respects not mate- 
rially different from the common pine. 

2. The Royal Apricot, raised a few years ago in the Royal Garden of the 
Luxembourg, and pronounced in the Bon Jardinier to be even superior to 
the Moor-Park, their Abricot Péche, and ripening from a week to ten days 
earlier (fig. 115. facing p. 322.) 

3. The Sugar-loaf Pippin; Dolgoi Squoznoi, Russ. (i.e. long and trans- 
parent); and Dymond of Exeter’s Hutchins’s early Seedling. A summer 
apple from Russia, and also from Exeter. “ At the period of the year 
when this matures, there is scarcely any apple which possesses the same 
good qualities. But after having been gathered a week or ten days, the 
flesh becomes soft and mealy.” 

4, Sweet Cone Strawberry, raised by T. A. Knight, Esq., in 1817, from 
the Old Pine impregnated by the Old Black. A moderate bearer, flesh firm, 
red, very rich, and high-flavoured. 

5. The Oslin Apple, said to have been brought from France to Scotland 
by the monks of Arbroath. Delicious; “ the best, except the Kerry Pippin, 
of all the early autumn apples ; grows by cuttings. 

6. The Mims Plum. A seedling from the Blue Perdrigon, in size and 
figure approaching the Magnum Bonum. “A pleasant dessert plum, but 
its great excellence is as a pie-fruit.”” Succeeds well as a standard. 

7. The Grove-End Scarlet Strawberry, raised in the garden of W. Atkin- 
son, Esq., at Grove-End, Paddington, in 1820. One of the earliest and best 
of the scarlet strawberries. Forces well, and bears carriage securely. 

8. The Barnet Raspberry. A seedling raised by a nurseryman named 
Cornwall, at Barnet, in Hertfordshire. Distinguished from the Red Ant- 
werp by its branching canes, and long, slender, reddish prickles. Very proli- 
fic, and ripens early, but does not bear carriage well. 

The drawings and descriptions are very well executed, and though plants 
of the eight fruits described could be purchased at a nursery for less than 
their representations on paper, yet the publication may certainly be con- 
sidered as moderate in price. 

The following note is from an experienced orchardist : — 

The stalks of fruit, I consider, should be carefully designated in the 
Pomological Magazine. In my orchard, it is wonderful to see how a long- 
stalked apple will ride out an equinoctial gale, when the shorter are ali 
blown down. This is an essential difference in late-ripening fruit, as to 
relative value. — W. R.Y. 

The following is from a highly valued correspondent (see p. 571.): — 

The Pomological Magazine appears to me to be on too expensive a plan 
to insure a general sale: 5s. for four plates of fruit is much too dear. Why 
not have chosen the small quarto size, like Loddiges’ Cabinet, and given ten 
plates for 5s., as they have done, instead of four; or the quarto size of the 
Society’s Transactions, with four or six figures on each plate; for, at the rate 
of four fruits a month, it will take nearly eighty years to go through the Hor- 
ticultural Catalogue of 3825 sorts, supposing them all to be distinct. But 
perhaps it is intended to be made a profitable concern, as well as a scientific 
one. By the by, let me ask, is it published to aid the funds of the Society, or 
for private benefit ? If for the latter, I should not consider it very respectful 
to the Society at large, as most probably the greater part of the specimens 
will come from the Horticultural Society’s Garden; however, this is a 
matter that does not concern the public, who want certainly a good, useful, 


Fleming’s British Farmer’s Magazine. 331 


and ‘reasonably priced work on fruits. In the letter-press, the language 
should be as plain as possible, to convey a correct description of the fruit ; 
such words, therefore, as roundish, cordate, cucullate, auricled, &¢., should 
give place to English words, which are equally expressive. The plates and 
letter-press should be numbered at bottom and not paged, like Poiteau and 
Lurpin’s Duhamel, to enable purchasers to arrange the different classes of 
fruits together. 

Sections of the fruit should be given; for, frequently, the internal struc- 
ture affords many discriminative marks, as the stones in apricots, peaches, 
and nectarines, the cells and kernels in apples and pears, the seeds in grapes, 
the flesh in cherries, &c. 

_ The plan in the Nowveau Duhamel seems to be very good. Take, for 
instance, apples. Plate 1. contains, 1. The flower; 2. The petal separate; 
5. Calyx, stamina, and pistil; 4. Calyx and pistil, viewed singly; 5. The 
fruit cut horizontally, to show the cells; 6. A small branch with leaves 
and fruit; 7. The entire fruit; 8. A kernel or seed separate; 9. A branch, 
with flowers and leaves. Other plates follow, containing five or six varieties, 
figured in each plate, according to their size, &c.— M. H. Nov. 20. 1827. 


Eleming’s British Farmer’s Magazine, exclusively devoted to Agriculture 
and Rural Affairs. Quarterly. 4s. 


No. V. for November, contains 

Original Communications. — Lord Althorp’s improved Short-horned Cow 
Io, with an engraving by T. Landseer.— The Origin of Moss, by W. 
Ayton, Esq., of Hamilton; showing that moss earth is “ an immense col- 
lection of the crops of aquatic vegetables, which have grown, in successive 
generations, on the surface, in humid situations, and in a low temperature, 
more or less in a state of putrefaction. Moss earth is not found ii warm 
climates. Cold and moisture, to a certain extent, are the parents of moss 
plants, and these form moss earth ; and the depth of the strata is always in 
proportion to the degree of humidity in a cold climate.” — On the present 
State of some of the improved Breeds of Cattle in this Kingdom, by the 
Reverend Henry Berry; controversial. (See Gard. Mag., vol.ii. p. 456., 
and vol. iii. p. 75.) — Cause and Cure of the Smut in Wheat, the Turnip’ 
Fly, Wire Worm, &c., by W. Farey; founded on Dr. Pew’s experiments, 
noticed Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 255, and recommending Dr. Pew’s cure, 
lime, “ together with keeping the land in good farming condition.”? — Dis- 
tresses of 1825, 1826, and 1827, by Mr. Simon Grey; in which the author 
argues, contrary to most political economists, that money is a “‘ mere mea- 
sure, and not a regulator, of value and prices; and, consequently, that the 
alleged over-issues of British currency by the country bankers and others 
formed no cause of the late distress,” 

On Prize-fed Oxen; in which the writer justifies cattle shows, &c. on 
the general principle of inducing farmers to mix with the world, and thus 
become acquainted with improvements which they never otherwise would 
have heard of. — Steeped Barley as Horse Food, by Verus; in which that 
veteran agriculturist (Gard. Mag., vol.i. p.259.) contends that barley is 
not so nourishing as oats, and that, consequently, a greater bulk being 
required, the saving is not so great as was alleged in a preceding paper on 
the same subject. — On the Weed Self-heal, Prunélla (or Brunella, from 
the German die Braune, a disease in the jaws and throat, which this plant 
is said to cure) vulgaris; in which the frequent appearance of this weed 
among clover is accounted for from the circumstances of both plants 
ripening their seeds at the same time, and from both seeds resembling each 
other; that of clover, however, being kidney-shaped, and rather larger 
than the seeds of self-heal. The seeds of the dodder, Cuscuta europea ; 


. 


332 - Watkins on Cucumber and Melon. 


as already noticed (p. 208.), are very common in Dutch clover-seed; but 
like those of self-heal, may be taken out by a fine sieve. — Agriculture of 
Ampthill, &c.; in which the excellent plough and harrow of Finlayson are 
strongly recommended. — On Poor Laws; the object of the writer is to 
lessen the expenses of finding the settlements of paupers. — On Smut in 
Grain; the author considers Smut as an infectious disease, that may be 
communicated to the grains of healthy wheat by contact, and eradicated 
from wheat altogether, by using quicklime, without the addition of acids, 
to neutralise the lime, or of oils or fatty substances, to form a kind of 
soap; in short, wash with clean water, skim off the smut, then pour over 
the sound grain a wash of newly burnt lime and water, similar to that used 
for white-washing walls, and lastly dry the heap with powdered quicklime. 
On Prize-fed Oxen; in which the writer argues that the modern exhibi- 
tions of fat cettle are of no advantage to agriculture. “In olden times,” he 
says, “ the fattening of cattle was not so general, and the art of procuring 
them nutritious food during winter more difficult than it now is. In those 
times, too, it was customary to give cattle plain food, grass and hay only ; 
consequently, beef was seldom, perhaps never, met with too rich in quality, 
and the fattest ox was then justly deemed the best: hence the propriety 
of first establishing fat cattle exhibitions, and awarding a premium to the 
owner of the fattest ox. But at present, when cattle food has become more 
diversified in character, and almost every circumstance affecting the fatten- 
ing system has undergone a change, the ancient mode of estimating the 
value of beef, and of awarding premiums for fattened cattle, ceases to be 
applicable, and its continuance may be instanced as one of the many me- 
lancholy proofs which the world affords of the force of habit, and slavish 
adoration of the wisdom of our ancestors.” 

Pernicious Customs; viz. bridling up the heads of horses, and lacing up 
the ankles of their drivers blamed. — Profits of planting; Mr. Withers’s 
calculations (p. 202.) not too high, and confirmed by Menteath’s Mo- 
rester’s Guide. — Answers to queries, and a Life of John Cockburn, Esq. 
of Ormiston, conclude the first department. 

Reviews. — Henderson’s Practical Grazier. Menteath’s Reports on 
Woods and Plantations. Withers’s Profit and Loss View of planting One 
Acre. 

Agricultural Intelligence — containing a great variety of matter inte- 
resting to farmers; but we limit our notices to what affects agriculture asa 
science, and to what is likely to be interesting to gardeners. The Lincoln- 
shire Agricultural Society has given a prize of ten guineas to one man, for 
having had seventeen children (ten living), and been forty years in the ser- 
vice of one master ; and another of five guineas, for twenty-five children 
gotten (ten living), and a service of forty-one years. These premiums seem 
to have been well merited by the length of service ; but, as to the children, 
‘there is something revolting in rewarding persons for calling twice as many 
beings into existence as they were able to nourish and bring up. Premiums 
for early marriages and large families may be very suitable for new coun- 
tries like America.—Stings from nettles may be cured by rubbing with dock 
leaves. 

Sporting Intelligence — highly interesting in its way. 

As this number concludes the first volume, it is accompanied by a title- 
page, and a dedication to T. W. Coke, Esq. M.P., universally acknowledged 
“as the distinguished patron of British agriculture for more than half a 
‘century.’ We are happy to see the Farmer’s Magazine increasing in 
interest and in circulation. 


Watkins, Thomas, many years foreman with Mr. Grange, of Hackney, and 
now with W. Knight, Esq., Highbury Park: The Art of promoting the 


~ Circle of the Seasons. | ~ 333 


Growth of the Cucumber and Melon; in a series of Directions for the: 
best Means to be adopted in bringing them to a complete state of per- 
fection. London. 8vo, pp. 84. 7s. Wright, Haymarket. 


We can safely recommend this little work to such amateurs as are their 
own gardeners : they will find the directions plain, concise, and well adapted 
to the end proposed; viz. ample crops of cucumbers and melons, both at 
the earliest and latest seasons at which these fruits are grown. 


Anon.: Circle of the Seasons, and Perpetual Key to the Calendar and 
Almanack ; to which is added, the Circle of the Hours, and the History 
of the Days of the Week: being a Compendicus Illustration of the 
History, Antiquities, and Natural Phenomena of each Day of the Year. 
London. 12mo. 


“ The Circle of the Seasons is intended for the daily instruction and 
amusement chiefly of young persons, particularly those who are fond of 
the study of botany and the natural sciences in general. It is, in fact, a 
compendious illustration of the history and phenomena of each day in the 
year ; and each page, containing one day, may be divided into three sepa- 
rate parts or subjects. In the first, the saints and festivals of the day are 
recorded, together with short notices of each, so as to form a useful key to 
the Calendar and Almanack. In the second follows the natural history of 
each day, containing a list of the plants which, on an average, begin to: 
flower or to fade ; the birds which arrive or begin to sing; and other natu- 
ral phenomena. And, lastly, we have added such descriptive poetry as’ 
relates to the above two subjects, in order to afford a «pleasing recreation 
to those who are disposed for a little daily exercise of this sort, and to 
illustrate the foregoing [religious] history and natural history of the day.” 

“ The work has been compiled with great labour and attention to accuracy ; 
and it is hoped, and fairly presumed, since a vast quantity of useful and 
agreeable information has been got together, and rendered easy of attain- 
ment by the mode of its arrangement, that both pleasure and profit may be 
gained by its daily perusal.” 

We approve of, and admire this little work, with the exception of that part 
of it, perhaps about one fifth of each page, which is occupied with the names 
of Catholic saints and martyrs. We cannot conceive the utility of mserting 
upwards of 1000 names, with scarcely a tithe of which, as a well-informed 
Catholic authorises us to state, any useful ideas can be associated. Perhaps 
the author may venerate them merely as names of antiquity ; if so, all that 
we can say is, that we differ from him in taste. 

We should have preferred the names and short biographies of men of 
science, art, or literature; or even the names of appropriate dessert or 
culinary fare; or the operations and products of agriculture and garden- 
ing; or, indeed, any sort of useful information. To those, however, who, 
like the author, find “ something very pleasing in the periodical return of 
festive days, and the various rites and ceremonies connected with them,” 
the work will be, what it is intended to be, instructive and amusing. 

We can readily sympathise with the feeling for Catholicism, not only as 
the most ancient and venerable variety of Christianity, but as that the best 
calculated, by its external forms, for taking full possession of the mind. 

Treating this subject as a matter of taste, a highly artificial style of re- 
ligion may be compared to a highly artificial style of art, and when a prefer- 
ence is given to the first, the Catholic style will be preferred to the Protestant 
manner, on the same principle that florid Gothic architecture, and the 
landscape-gardening of Le Notre, will be preferred to the Grecian or the 
English styles of these arts. Every style, both of thinking and building is 


. 834 M. Vibert on the Cockchaffer. 


good, and to be admired, when considered relatively to the circumstances 
which called them forth ; that is, historically, or with reference to the state 
of the human mind at the time. 


FRANCE. 


Vibert, M., Cultivator of Roses at Cheneviéres-sur-Marne: Du Ver Blane, 
exposé de ses Ravages et de la Necessité de le détruire sous la forme du 
Hanneton; suivi d’une Notice sur Je Charangon gris et celui de laLivéche. 
On the White Worm, showing its Ravages and the Necessity of destroy- 
ing it while in the Cockchaffer state ; followed by a Notice on the Grey 
Weevil [Curctlio cineraceus] and the Lovage Weevil [C. ligistici]. 
Paris. Pamph. 8vo, pp. 101. 


The above pamphlet, accompanied by the following letter, was sent us 
by Mr. Calvert, the well-known cultivator of roses at Rouen :— 

Dear Sir, I send you a new publication on a subject that I think of 
the utmost importance to horticulture, and, indeed, agriculture. I have 
for the last two or three years been a great sufferer from the grub upon 
which the author treats, namely, the larva of the cockchaffer. I had nade 
some remarks, and intended to have transmitted them to you, but M. 
Vibert has anticipated me. I can bear witness to the truth of the insect’s 
devastations, and this year the garden of M. Soulange-Bodin has also 
greatly suffered from it. The dry summer has much assisted and increased 
the devastation. M. Soulange-Bodin has proposed to give 400 /fr., and 
entreated other cultivators to join him in offering a reward to any person 
who can find the means of destroying the larva. I was sorry to see, when 
Jast in London, that the devastation has also begun in England; for two 
years ago I saw nearly the whole of Mr. Colville’s new nursery, near Roe- 
hampton, destroyed by them. I have myself lost near 50,000 rose trees, 
and thisyear dahlias and all kinds of plants have more or less suffered. I think 
M. Vibert has omitted to give a very important fact, and one, in my opi- 
nion, which is the most likely to lead to a mode of destroying them. The 
insect lays its eggs about June, and, in six weeks, they produce a very small 
maggot, and, as soon as they get strength, they approach to within an inch 
or less of the surface of the earth. In my opinion that is the best time to 
destroy them in the ground. I have tried a solution of arsenic and water, 
and succeeded, but my experiment was not on a large scale. I think some 
remedy might be found. The great difficulty to overcome is, not to destroy 
the plants in destroying the insect. Many attempts have been made, but 
they always injured vegetation. I trust you will, in your excellent Maga- 
zine, entreat every gardener’s attention to the insect ; and indeed chemists, 
in trying to destroy it without injuring vegetation, will find a scope for their 
talents. He who succeeds in conquering this European locust will render 
a great service, not only to agriculture and horticulture, but to society ; 
indeed it will be an act of humanity to the peasantry of this country, as 
I have seen many poor and industrious families ruined by this pest to vege- 
tation. I shall be very happy to afford farther information in answer to any 
enquiries that may be made by any person in his endeavours to destroy 
them. Ihave the honour to remain, &c.— A. C. Calvert. Trianon Nur- 
sery, near Rouen, October 18. 1827. 

We first sent M. Vibert’s pamphlet to Mr. Swainson, who furnished the 
article on the subject which we have published by itself, and, subsequently, 
to our able and experienced contributor, Mr. Main, who supplied what 
follows : — 

M. Vibert, after forty years’ occupation of a garden, during the last six 
of which he has been annoyed by the grub of the cockchaffer to a ruinous 
extent, is resolved to leave a nursery which he can no longer cultivate to 


M. Vibert on the Cockchaffer. 335 


advantage. An account of this surrender, and the cause of it, he thinks, 
may be serviceable to both gardeners and farmers, and therefore has 
published it to draw attention to the subject. He says he is not a natu- 
ralist ; but, by dear experience, he knows, perhaps, more of the history of 
this insect, than those who can prosecute its study free from apprehension 
of its ravages. 

He describes the May bug, which appears to be the Scarabze‘us meloléntha 
(see p.295.), through all the stages of its growth. The perfect insect comes 
forth about the end of April, continues visible about six weeks, though he 
thinks that, individually, they do not live above twenty-five, and perhaps no 
more than fifteen days: Buffon says eight, but it is certain they live longer. 
In ascending from their dormitories they are sometimes arrested within an 
inch or two of the surface by rain or cold. They couple in a few days after 
their appearance, the female dying soon after she has laid her eggs, the 
male dying soon after accouplement. A part only of the embryos of eggs are 
fecundated ; many eggs remain unhatched. Some think they lay from fifty 
to one hundred eggs, but our author could never find above thirty or thirty- 
five. In laying, the female makes a hole in light soil, and especially where 
there are dung droppings, of six or seven inches in depth, which costs her 
an hour’s work ; lays chiefly in the night, though sometimes in the day ; im- 
possible to tell how long she is laying her quantity. Thinks the eggs hatch 
in about three weeks; has found, on the 10th of July, the young grub 
above half an inch long; thinks that during the two first weeks of their 
existence they do not live on the roots of plants, but on particles of decom- 
posed vegetables, though they begin to be destructive in less than two 
months. Their ravages, however, do not appear till the autumn; at the 
end of October they are about half an inch in length, and as thick as a little 
goosequill; their size differs according to the time at which the eggs are 
laid. This difference of size is observable even to the end of their 
second year; they descend about 2 ft. into the earth in the month of No- 
vember, where they make a smooth round hole, and in which they lie stiff 
and curled up during winter. This hole they leave about the 10th of 
April, and rise to the surface of the ground; though without taking 
nourishment, they become larger in size during their rest. Throughout 
the summer of this year they are inconceivably destructive, and in the 
autumn return to their dormitories, having acquired four fifths of their 
size. In the spring they remount for the second time, and begin the third 
aud last year of their existence; their voracity increases during the short 
time they have to live, as for two months and a half their depredations are 
terrible. 

Some time before they descend for the last time, their colour becomes a 
dull yellow, especialy about the tail; and, during their life, they several 
times cast their skin or slough, and some of them perish while undergoing 
this change. Towards the 15th of June they begin to descend to a greater 
depth in the soil; where, after having lived in the form of grubs for the 
space of two years, which include three summers, they are changed into 
the chrysalis state. 

It is rather difficult to fix the time of their change from the chrysalis to 
the perfect state, but M. Vibert conjectures that it is towards the end of 
February; but their under-ground history is involved in obscurity, because, 
in our labours of trenching and digging, we often find perfect insects in 
October and throughout: the winter months, of their full size and natural 
colour. These must be either retarded or premature changes, and, as they 
are against the general laws of nature, deserve the attention of naturalists. 

Buffon has led us into error by saying that these grubs live three or four 
years ; by which, probably, he means their whole existence from the egg to 
the perfect state. M. Vibert divides their existence thus: — 


336 M, Vibert on the Cockchaffer. 


As active devouring grubs - - - 14 months. 
As inactive and fasting grubs - - - 10 
Existence as grubs - - - 24 
Existence in a state of chrysalis - - 8 


Existence as May bugs in the egg, 20days; under? , 
ground, 20 days; and above ground, 80 days, - 


Total period of their existence, 56 months. 


So that the greater part of their existence being in the grub state, a war 
of extermination should be carried on against them while in that state. 
The female chooses dunghills, compost heaps, ground lately moved and 
open to the sun and air, to deposit her eggs; rejects shady woods, under- 
woods, and strong clayeyground. The most shady parts of M. Vibert’s 
garden escaped, when the more cpen were infested. He found them 
equally numerous on a naked fallow as among crops; that they eat any 
vegetable substance, dead or alive, devouring the very hooks used in layer- 
ing plants. Grass, herbs, shrubs, and trees are equally their prey, and, 
what is most strange, they are equally fat and healthy where they have 
nothing, as when in the midst of plenty! M. Vibert has noticed three 
other sorts of grubs, which he thinks belong to the beetle tribe, but is un- 
certain which they are. The depredations of the perfect insect are upon 
high rather than low growths; but the damage done by them is not to be 
compared with the damage they do in their grub state. In 1825 their ra- 
vages began, but were not so much felt as in the following year, for in that 
year whole acres of lucerne, strawberries, &c., were totally destroyed. 

As means of destruction, M. Vibert thinks the Roman lettuce a better 
bait than the strawberry, which has been recommended ; and digging, with 
a view to gathering them, should be done in damp weather, for, on the 
weather becoming dry, the grubs descend below the reach of the spade. 

From M. Vibert’s book it is evident that the “ white worm,” Turk, or 
miller grub, which he describes, is the larva of the Scarabze‘us melolontha. 
The only other beetle which has similar habits is the Scarabze‘us solstitialis, 
or hoary beetle. The latter is the smaller of the two, and, in some seasons, 
equally plentiful. [Mr. Swainson, it will be observed (p. 295.), thinks it may 
be the rose beetle.] In England both these species are the principal food 
of rooks, jackdaws, crows, and sparrows. Rooks easily find them when 
near the surface by the smell, and dig them up with great dexterity. 

Premiums to those who catch them, and forming heaps of dung, or 
stubble which has been trampled for some time by cattle, to attract the fe- 
males in their breeding season, are the only means which are practicable to 
destroy them. A compost of bog earth and rotten dung, frequently turned, 
and to which poultry should have access, would be an excellent trap for 
them; but probably the best of all traps is a heap or ridge of the siftings 
of tan, after it has been rotted in the hot-house.—J. M. 


We have had three large and fourteen small grubs collected: half of 
them we laid down on a gravel walk, and watered with lime water, of the 
strength used for destroying worms, without succeeding in killing them ; 
the other half we buried in a pot of earth, and watered with lime water of 
double the usual strength, that is, at the rate of two quarts of powdered 
lime to two gallons of water, and found them at first apparently killed, 
but, on examining the pot after an interval of three days, they appeared in 
as great vigour as before the lime was applied. We then tried half of them 
with tobacco water, and half of them with salt and water: both mixtures 
killed them; but salt and water, of a sufficient strength for that purpose, 
would destroy vegetation, and tobacco water would be much too expensive. 


French, German, and Italian Books. 237 


We fear, therefore, that the grubs must be left to the crows and rooks, 
and the perfect insect gathered by hand. In England this might form a 
parochial occupation for the aged poor of both sexes, and for children, at 
so much a score. We shall be most happy if our French readers derive 
any useful information from what we have been able to collect. — Cond. 


Chateauvieux, M. Lullin de, Author of Letters on Italy, &c.: 


1. Lettre & M. Pictet, sur la Ferme Expérimentale de Coppet. Paris. 
Pamph. 8vo, pp. 59. 


2. Réunion Agricole, dans la Ferme Expérimentale de Coppet, le Vendredi, 
Sept. 29. 1826. Paris. Pamph. 


Mémoires d@’ Agriculture, d’ Economie rurale et domestique, publiés par la 
Société Royale et Centrale d’ Agriculture. Paris. 8vo, 1 vol. pp. 452. 2 pls. 


This volume contains biographical notices of two deceased members ; 
reports on a machine for separating clover seed; on veterinary medicine ; 
on manures ; on the translation of books on agriculture, calculated for the 
improvement of France; on cider; on the blindness of horses; on the 
national forests; on the shepherd Samson, who received a medal for the 
care taken of his flock; on the improvements made by Comte Hendelet ; 
on the experimental farm of M. Demerson; on Gruyére cheese; on fal- 
lows; on the Hainault scythe ; and on the preservation of grain. 


GERMANY. 


Voght, Baron von, a Proprietor and Cultivator at Flotbec on the Elbe, near 
Hamburgh: Landwirthschaftlicher Schriften. A Collection of Papers 
on Rural Economy. Hamburgh. 8vo, pp. 364. 


We have already (Gard Mag., vol.i. p. 441.) noticed an ingenious work 
of this author : the present is a relation of experiments in the language of 
his peculiar statistics ; and we would recommend both volumes to our con- 
temporary, Mr. Fleming, as affording valuable materials for his magazine. 
We understand the establishment at Klotbec well merits inspection, and we 
recommend a visit there to our countrymen passing through Hamburgh. 


Thaer, M., of Mogiin, in Prussia, a well known and justly celebrated prac- 
tical Agriculturist, Author of numerous Works: Quelques éclaircisse- 
mens, &c. Remarks on the Agricultural Statistics of the Baron de 
Voght. Hamburgh. Pamph. 8vo. 

M. Thaer and the Baron de Voght are intimate friends, and the object 
of the present pamphlet is to propose some improvements on the technical 
phraseology adopted by the latter; such as activity of the soil (thatigkezt) 
for power of the soil (erdvermogen), &c. 


Walter’s Allgemeines Teutscher Gartenbuch, &c. Walter’s German Gar- 
dener, or Popular and Practical Instructions relative to the Laying out, 
Management, and Culture of Gardens of Ornament, Orchards, and 
Kitchen-gardens. Leipzic. 8vo, 3d edit. 3 pls. 3 flor. 56 kr. 


Iraty. 


NV. N., a Professor in the Academy of Bologna: L’art di riparare dai 
Calori estivi le Abitazioni e le Persone. On the Art of preserving Houses 
and Persons from the great Heats of Summer. Bologna. 8vo, pp. 50. 
Large and lofty apartments, so contrived as to admit, by internal openings, 

of a continual circulation of air, and with few and small windows, so as to 

exclude light and the sun; thick walls and double roofs; blue or purple 
glass in the windows, as being less capable of penetration by heat 


Vou. III. — No. 11. Z 


338 Italian and Polish Books. 


porches and verandas; and the shade of trees, are recommended as the 
ordinary means of producing a cool house. The extraordinary are external 
walls with interstices of at least a foot in width, which may be filled with 
snow and salt, or powdered ice and salt, or watered frequently. Through 
such yacuities spiral tubes may be passed, with one opening to the open 
air, and the others in the chamber to be cooled ; the effect of which will be 
the entrance of a current of air, cooled in its passage through that part of 
the pipe which is contained in the vacuity, as steam is cooled to water by 
passing through the worm of a still. The use of pots of flowers in rooms 
Is approved of, because they produce oxygen gas, and absorb insalubrious 
gases. The author regrets that modern architects in Italy have left off the 
grave style prevalent in the time of Leo X., and adopted “ a bizarre con- 
struction, Sarrasin, French, and even Russian,” disgraceful to his country. 
To exclude excessive heat from the person, he recommends the thinnest 
linen or cotton stuffs that can be procured, put on as loosely as possible. 


Elenco degh Albert principali che possono servire all? Ornamento det Giar- 
dint, &c. Nomenclature of the principal Trees and Shrubs used in 
Ornamental Gardens, with Notices of their Culture. Turin. 8vo. 


In his introduction the author endeavours to prove that Italy was the 
first to display the irregular or English style of gardening (see Encyc. of 
Gard., § 78.), and the advantages to public morals and taste that would 
attend a more general cultivation of gardens among all classes of society. 
To facilitate this cultivation is the grand object of his work. 


Bonafous, M. Mathieu, Director of the Experimental Garden of the Royal 
_ and Central Agricultural Society of Turin: Osservazioni ed Esperienze 
Agrarie. Observations and Experiments in Agriculture. ‘Turin. 8vo. 


After some remarks on the utility of experimental farms, follow some 
observations on different varieties of wheat; on the hill or dry rice of 
China ; on the potato; and the Jerusalem artichoke. The chief obstacle to 
the culture of the potato in Piedmont is the necessity of cooking it, fuel 
being there extremely dear. 


Sette, Vincent: Memoria storico-naturale sull’ Arrossimento, &c. Notice 
. respecting the Red Colour which appeared on different kinds of Food in 
. 1819, in the province of Padua. Venice. 8vo, pp. 63. 


The heat and moisture of the summer of 1819 was favourable to the 
growth of Byssus botryoides, which appeared on bread, meat, and especially 
on dough, paste, and pastry. 

Lomeni, Dr. Ignace, and G. Silvestri: Amministrazione economica della 
Foglia de’ Gelsi nella Coltivazione de’ Bachi da Seta. On the Econo- 
mical Application of Mulberry Leaves in rearing the Silk Worm. Milan. 
8vo, pp. 96. 

An ounce of the eggs of the insects will consume 1589 French pounds of 
leaves, and produce 151 lbs. 4 0z. of cocoons ; that is, about 13 lbs. of leaves 
will give about 1 lb. of raw silk. 


PoLanp. 


Schubert, M., C.M.H.S., Professor of Botany and Director of the Botanic 
' Garden of the University of Warsaw : Spis Roslin Ogrodu Botanicznego 
Krolewskiego-Warszawskiego Uniwersytetu. Catalogue of Plants in the 
. Botanic Garden of the University of Warsaw. Warsaw. 8vo, pp..580. 
2 pl. 
The first edition of this work, in 1820, contained 5000 species; the pre- 
sent, which is dated 1824, contains about 10,000. The scientific name, 


Polish Books. — Botanic Garden of Warsaw. 339 


authority, habitation in the garden, native country, and synonyms are given, 
but not the Polish names. {The species are arranged according to the 
natural system, commencing with the Acotyledones. Hach species is desig- 
nated by signs, indicating that it is annual, of two years’ duration, perennial, 
woody, with accumbent cotyledons, incumbent cotyledons, conduplicate 
cotyledons, spiral cotyledons, or biplicate cotyledons. In the first class, 
Acotyledones, are only six species of Lycopodium and two of Bernhardia. In 
the second, Monocotyledones, are chiefly hardy species, and a few palms and 
Cape bulbs. The great majority of species, both of Monocotyledones and 
Dicotyledones, are hardy herbaceous annuals and perennials. If so many 
species as 10,000 are actually in this garden, it must be one of the richest on 
the Continent, which M. Schubert in his preface says it is. He is in cor- 
respondence with the principal gardens in Germany, and has no greater 
happiness than in giving and receiving, so as to extend the number of inte- 
resting or useful plants, and promote the study of vegetable nature. 


An engraved plan is 


given (fig. 125.) 
which displays 


Botanical nursery. 

, Orchard. 

Nursery of forest trees 
and shrubs. 

Vineyard, 

Astronomical 
atory. 

&, Dwelling-houses of the 

professors and gar- leat 


deners. iY Gi Y////, 6 ys 
c, Theat n wich wore| TE Emam aaa 
for the Polish court, Up | \@ aa |, | 
the king living chiefly | * Ge ee ee 
at Lazenki, or the 
Bath, (Enc. of Gard., |- 
§ 281., and fig. 25.) E 
Small chapel in an old 
gravel pit, formerly 
used as a burying- 
ground tothe barracks 
of the Royal Guard. 
e, Reservoir of water. 


observ- 


f, Green-houses, and a 
vinery. 

& Fig-house. 

» Brick-built pits with} 
flues. 

¢,  Hot-bed frames, 

k, Sheds. 


Z, Dial andcompass. 

m, Domestic offices, i 

n, Summer station for the 
green-house plants. 

00, Pumps. 


Ps 
q 
Ts, 
§, 


Shrubbery. 
Stations for plants. 
Evergreen shrubs, 
Compost ground. 


A view of the garden (fig. 124.) shows the ancient green-house (a), 
observatory (4), and modern plant-houses (c), as conspicuous objects. Of 
the surface of the situation we have a perfect recollection, and know it 
to be very much varied; the soil is light, sandy, and gravelly; the sur- 
rounding scenery the most agreeable in the neighbourhood of Warsaw. 

zZ2 


340 . Russian and West Indian Books. 


aoe 
i. ——s CP 
es Se BSB y 
SSS eee ~p 
= ; ; 
S Ta 


Russia. 


Zigra, J. H., Member of the Imperial Academy and Economical Society: 


of Petersburgh: -Nordischer Blumenfreund. ‘The Florist of the North. 
Riga. 8yvo, 1 pl. 
West Inpres. 


La Sagra, Don Ramon de, Professor of Natural History in the University of 
Cuba: Informe sobre el Estado actual de Jardin y de la Catedra de Bo- 
tanica aplicada a la Agricultura, &c. Information respecting the pre- 
sent State of the Garden, and the Professorship of Botany applied to 
Agriculture. Havanna. 8vo, pp. 23. 


Professor Ramon de la Sagra is assembling all the indigenous plants of 
Cuba, besides a number of rare plants of other countries, im his garden ; 
and he invites the directors of the principal botanic gardens of Europe to 
make exchanges with him. He proposes also to translate Decandolle’s 
Essai sur les Propriétés Médicales des Plantes into Spanish, for the benefit of 


the island. 


Art. IV. Literary Notices. 


A TBuLAR Gardener’s Calendar will be ready in a few days for publica- 
tion, to be called the Gardener’s Remembrancer, and Apiarian’s Monthly 
Calendar. It will display, at one view, the work required to be done in the 
flower-garden, shrubbery, kitchen, and fruit-garden, green-house, nursery, 
&c. On the back of the sheet will be a Vegetable and Seed Directory, 
denoting the proper times for depositing, and how to sow and manage the 
various crops, &c. It will, in fact, be clear and concise, instructions on every 
point required in gardening, and the management of bees. Ridgeway. [This 
1s rather a happy idea, and, if judiciously realised, will be well received.] 

Universal History of Plants. — Since this Magazine was commenced, we 
have received various applications and hints respecting a new edition, in 
8vo, of Miller’s Dictionary. In allusion to some of these suggestions, we 
have (p. 209.) expressed our hope that this Dictionary will never again 


————— 


Literary Notices. 341 


appear in an alphabetical form ; and, after a good deal of consideration on 
the subject, and having had some experiments made on printing plants and 
insects in colours, we have come to the resolution of commencing a work 
under the title of A Universal History of Plants, to serve as a substitute for 
Martyn’s Miller’s Dictionary, and to contain all the improvements which 
the present state of botany, gardening, and agriculture admits of. We shall 
have ample and varied assistance in the different departments of the work, so 
as to give it every perfection of which it is susceptible; and, till a more 
ample prospectus, and ‘the first part of the work, appear, the following 
outline is submitted : — 

1. The arrangement will be according to the natural system, and all the 
plants hitherto described will be included ; their botanical characters, natu- 
ral and artificial history, comprising their geography, culture, uses, applica- 
tion in the arts, &c. &c., given. 

2. Coloured figures, printed in the manner of the first three figures facing 
p-522., will be given, of one or more species of every genus described, of all 
the most important species, and of all the natives of Britain. Coloured 
figures will also be given of a number of the principal florist’s flowers, and 
of a selection of the best hardy and exotic fruits, executed in the style of 
Jigs. 113, 114, and 115., facing p. 522., and agreeably to our theory of the 
best plan of figuring and describing fruits in p. 326-329., as modified by our 
correspondent M. H., p. 330. 

3. The work will appear in parts, quarterly, under the following modifi- 
cations: 1. In quarto, the letter-press and corresponding plates together ; 
2. The letter-press by itself, for one class of purchasers, and the plates by 
themselves, with short descriptions, for another class of purchasers; 3. The 
letter-press and the plates of the plants of Europe, under the title of His- 
tory of the Indigenous Plonts of Europe, together and separately ; 4. In oc- 
tavo, the letter-press and the plates of the plants of Britain, under the title 
of History of the Indigenous Plants of Britain, together and separately. 
This mode of publishing will accommodate every class of purchasers: the 
gardener, who will take the letter-press only of the first modification, and 
which will not cost him more than the present price of Miller’s Diction- 
ary; and to the clergy, medical men, and ladies resident in the country, 
The Plants of Britain, their figures, and history, will be of particular interest. 

4. The whole will be stereotyped, so that there cannot soon be a second 
edition; but, when the work is completed, a perpetual supplement will be 
commenced, on a plan that will end in including all the plants of the 
world, so given as to admit of any species of classification. 

5. The great advantage of the whole of this plan to the public, will result 
from the coloured figures being printed from blocks of wood, instead of being 
engravings coloured by hand; by this, and the quarto size of the plates, the 
figures of from 6 to 24 plants, or 6 to 24 florist’s flowers, or 6 to 24 fruits, 
according to their size, or as they may admit of reduction, may be afforded 
for little more than what is charged for one plant, florist’s flower, or fruit, in 
any of the principal botanical publications of the day. It is true, the figures 
will not be so perfect as those coloured by hand, but we may refer to the 
cut facing p. 522., in proof of their sufficiency for every useful purpose. 

Magazine of Natural History. — Our correspondent 8. (Manchester, 
Oct. 14th), and other readers and friends, are informed that the plan of 
this work is completed, and that its publication in quarterly numbers, with 
figures of plants, animals, and minerals, printed in colours, will shortly be 
announced. In the mean time, communications on zoology, botany, 
mineralogy, geology, and meteorology, of a popular description, may be 
addressed, free of postage, “'To the Editor of the Magazine of Natural His- 
tory,” at Messrs. Longman, Rees, & Co.’s, Paternoster Row. A detailed 
prospectus will appear with the first number. 


ZS 


PART JIL. 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. I. Foreign Notices. 


FRANCE. 


SuGar from Beet Root.— At a dinner recently given by the town of 
Amiens to the King of France, there was placed on the table, opposite His 
Majesty, an immense column composed of sugar, manufactured from the 
beet root, at Franvillers, near Amiens. The column consisted of four dif- 
ferent qualities of refined sugar, and crystals of raw sugar formed the 
pedestal. The manufacture of sugar from beet-root seems to be making 
great advances in France. (Newsp.) 

Knowledge for the Poor. — A work is announced by the Baron Charles 
Dupin, which in many respects will correspond to our Library of Useful 
Knowledge. It is to be entitled the Petit Producteur, and is to consist of a 
collection of works containing the notions which may be spread with most 
advantage to themselves among persons of very moderate income. Works 
which contain what is most interesting to the cultivator, the manufacturer, 
the mechanic, the tradesman, and the simple workman or labourer, are to — 
be given in separate series. The whole work is to be in volumes, in 18mo, 
with many wood-cuts, and sold at 75 cents. each volume. Subscriptions are 
received chez Bachelier, libraire, Quai des Augustins, & chez Delauny, au 
Palais-Royal. 


GERMANY. 


Sauerkraut, §c. — Sir, I beg leave to send you an account of the manner 
in which Sauerkraut 1s prepared in Germany, which | had lately an oppor- 
tunity of seeing at the house of afriend. The cabbages of which it is made 
are very large, and perfectly white. ‘The first process of preparing them 
is, to scoop out the interior part of the stalk with an iron instrument or 
scoop ; they are then cut into small shreds by a wooden machine, composed 
of a flat board or tray, which has a ledge on two sides, to steady a box or 
frame, into which the cabbages are put. In the middle of the board are 
four flat pieces of steel, similar to the steel part of a spokeshave, placed in 
an oblique direction, and the near edge of each being a little raised up, 
with small spaces between each, to let the shreds fall down into a tub 
placed underneath to receive them. The cabbages are then put into the 
box before described, which is pushed backwards and forwards, when the 
cabbages being cut by the steel, fall in small shreds into a tub placed below. 
A barrel stands ready by to receive them when cut, the sides of which are 
first washed with vinegar. A man stands on a chair by the barrel, with 
clean wooden shoes on, whose business it is to salt and prepare them, 
which is done in the following manner : — The man first takes as much of 
the*cut cabbage as covers about four inches above the bottom; he next 
strews upon it two handfuls of salt, one handful of unground pepper, and 


Foreign Notices. — Germany. 343, 


a small quantity of salad oil; he then gets into the barrel, and treads it 
down with his wooden shoes, till it is well mixed and compact. He next 
takes another layer of cabbage, and puts salt and pepper on it as before, 
and treads it again, and so goes on till the barrel is filled. A board is then 
placed on it, and upon the board some very heavy weights are put; and it 
remains so ten or fifteen days, when it partially ferments, and a great deal 
of water swims on the surface: it is then put into the cellar for use. The 
men who prepare sauerkraut are Tyrolese, and carry their machine, which 
has not been invented more than ten or twelve years, on their backs, from 
house to house. 

In the annexed sketch ( fig. 125.), a is the cutting-tray, 5 the box into 
which the cabbages are put, c the scoop, d the tub into which the shreds 
fall. Iam, &c.— W. B.S. Aix-la-Chapelle, Nov. 5. 1827. 


a 


To the preceding account from your young correspondent, I add a few 
general observations. Few things in the domestic economy of the Germans 
strike an English resident more, than the preparation, far exceeding that 
in his own country, which they make for the winter consumption of vege- 
tables. Sauerkraut is a kind of food, of which every family stores up, in pro- 
portion to its size, one or more large casks; and, at this time of the year 
(October and November), the market-places are crowded with huge white 
pyramids of cabbages (all heart) for sale ; and, in every court and yard into 
which an accidental peep is obtained, is seen the bustle of preparing them 
for use, and the baskets of shredded cabbage, which in that state resemble 
mountains of green-tinged froth, or syllabub. Kidneybeans are another 
vegetable of which, at an earlier period of the year, the Germans store up 
large quantities for winter consumption; a circumstance which accounts 
for the number of acres of this plant, which at first excite the traveller’s 
surprise, cultivated in the open fields, in the neighbourhood even of towns 
not very large. Of the quantity of kidneybeans thus stored in inns and 
large families, an idea may be formed from the following fact :— During two 
days that we spent, im the latter end of August, at the Trierische Hof, the 
principal hotel at Coblentz, from eight to ten women were constantly em- 
ployed in the yard (as they probably had been before our arrival, and 
continued to be after our departure,) in trimming and slicing [the pods of } 
kidneybeans, of which, besides a large basketful next to each, there stood 
another in the midst of the circle that would have filled a good-sized cart.. 
The beans thus prepared are plunged into hot water for a few minutes, then 
drained, and closely packed with salt in jars or barrels. 

In a similar manner are stored, in October, considerable quantities of the 
leaf-stalks, and dried ribs of the leaves of young turnips (after the thin part 

Z 4 


344 Foreign Notices. — Germany, Denmark. 


of the leaf has been stripped off), and a portion of the bulb, all cut into 
lengths of about an inch. 

Without this provision of sauerkraut, kidneybeans, and turnips, added to 
an ample stock of potatoes, onions, carrots (kept in sand), &c., all deposited 
in the spacious cellars with which every decent house is provided; and, 
moreover, abundance of apples, pears, and quinces, both fresh and dried (by 
being pared, cut into slices, and hung on strings near a fire); a German family 
would think itself ill fortified against the approach of winter, and would 
relish very badly being put, at this season, on the short and unvaried Eng- 
lish commons of potatoes, with an occasional change of borecole or Savoy 
cabbage. In fact, no German conceives he has dined tolerably, at any 
season, without having eaten of three or four kinds of vegetables. To de- 
cide which is the dest system, the German or the English, would require a 
long discussion ; but two peints seem clear: first, that the adoption of the 
varied’German vegetable fare in England, would lead to a great extension 
of its horticulture; and secondly, that the English cannot fairly determine 
how far they would prefer the German system until they have tried it. 
Many English residents in Germany are as loud as the natives in the praise 
of sauerkraut when properly cooked, which is every thing. For these rea- 
sons, it might be worth while for some of our horticultural societies to 
procure from the foreign ones, full and precise directions for preparing and 
storing their winter vecetables, and then offer premiums for the most suc- 
cessful imitation of the practice at home, giving a fair trial to sauerkraut, 
salted kidneybeans, &c., by having them served at their anniversary din- 
ners, cooked in the most approved foreign modes, as there seems no good 
ground why vegetables preserved and cooked in new ways should not be 
tasted and decided on at such dinners, as well as fruits grown or kept by 
new processes. (Note of a Friend.) 

Turnip Cabbage. — It is surprising that this valuable vegetable (the Koh/- 
Rabi of the Germans, Chou-Rave of the French), of which large quantities 
are regularly sold the whole summer in the German markets, is not more 
cultivated in England, as it is little inferior to cauliflower; and yet, from 
its requiring less care and room, can be grown at a price so much lower, 
that a given weight of cauliflower, in the market of Aix-la-Chapelle, costs 
five or six times as much as the same weight of kohl-rabi. The mode of 
cooking, however, makes all the difference. Half-boiled, in the English 
way, it would be little thought of ; but when cut, as in Germany, into small 
oblong pieces, and thoroughly and slowly boiled, or rather stewed, it forms 
an excellent dish. The average diameter of the dub (applying this term, 
for want of one more appropriate, to the globular enlargement into which 
this variety of the cabbage tribe expands, just above the ground,) is from 
5 to 4 inches, but it is often grown much larger. One purchased in the 
market of Aix-la-Chapelle, in October last, measured 18 inches in cir- 
cumference, and weighed (exclusively of leaves and root) 4 lbs. 9 oz. Prus- 
sian weight. It could not be estimated to have cost more than one half- 
penny English ; and having been cooked separately, by way of experiment, 
made a large dish, more than enough for five persons, at dinner, though no 
ae vegetable was eaten, as it was preferred to all the rest at the table. 

Ibid.) 


DENMARK. 


The Gardening at Sorgenfrie has for a number of years been but very 
indifferent, and it is now just the same as before, and perhaps worse than 
that of Syon House was in 1824-26. 

One of the first places for horticulture in this country 1s, without ex- 
ception, the Royal Gardens of Rosenburgh, under the superintendence of 


Foreign Notices. — Denmark. B45 


the royal gardener, P. Lindegaard, Esq. ; and no place in this country can 
in any respect come near to it in cultivation and forcing. Every plant 
M. Lindegaard has under his care looks remarkably well; but the prin- 
cipal objects of attraction are the vines. One instance may be men- 
tioned : —In 1822 M. Lindegaard planted three plants in front of a large 
orangery, 160 ft. long, viz. two plants of Chasselas de Fontainebleau, and 
one of the Parsley-leaved Grape. All of them showed fruit the first sum- 
mer. In 1825, he says, one plant had 143 lbs. weight of fruit, the second 
14 Ibs., and third 10 lbs. weight. In 1823 M. Lindegaard planted four 
plants more; and now the whole front of the orangery is covered with 
vines, except the windows: five plants of Chasselas de Fontainebleau, 
here named White Van der Lahn; one plant of the Parsley-leaved, and one 
plant of the Blue Cluster, here named Early Leipziger, and in France Made- 
leine hative. Each plant has produced upwards of one hundred fine large 
bunches this year, which will be ripe in the course of a month. The wood 
for next year is as thick as one’s finger, and so is that of every grape vine 
in this garden. The extensive walls in the garden are covered with grapes 
and peaches; and most of the grapes will ripen this year on the open wall, 
without any glass covering'whatever. The peaches on the walls begin now 
to ripen: fine apricots have been gathered this year, almost in bushels, 
from the walls. The peaches here are deserving of the same praise as the 
grapes; the trees are as fine as any I have ever seen in England, covered 
with abundance of fruit, and beautiful bearing wood for the next year. 
M. Lindegaard has published a book on the cultivation of grapes in Den- 
mark (Eneyc. of Gard., p. 1113.), and, if you think it worth notice, I will 
translate it and send it to you in a future letter. There are several old vine 
plants by the walls upwards of a century old, and still in a flourishing state. 
M. Lindegaard cultivates sixteen sorts of grapes in his garden. 

‘Among the pine-apple plants M. Lindegaard has got the New Provi- 
dence, the Blood, some Havannah, and, I believe, the Black Antigua; and, 
considering the bad construction of his houses and pits, the fruits are good. 

In the month of July I saw a bed of Keen’s Seedling Strawberry in this 
garden, remarkably fine, covered with large fruit, and equal to any thing I 
ever saw. To get perfect young strawberry plants, lay out the runners 
when the fruit is gathered, on one side of the alleys; loosen the mould 
where they are to be laid, and add a little fresh mould to it; fasten them 
down with carnation hooks, and supply them with water: in a couple of 
weeks you will have fine plants. But M. Lindegaard has written upon 
this subject to the Horticultural Society, and you will find more there 
about it. He cut a melon last week of the Grand Mogul, weighing 
18 lbs. 

Mushrooms and sea-kale are not yet cultivated in this country. I under- 
stand sea-kale is not liked inthe kitchen ; but its culture is unknown here, 
and it is of no use to introduce new methods, or new eatable plants, if they 
are not accepted. Rhubarb is only grown in the botanic garden among 
the hardy plants, in order to have it in the collection. 

The Coreopsis tinctoria, here C. bicolor, is quite as plentiful as in 
England. M. Lindegaard has got 2 good stock of plants of Primula 
sinénsis ; but the fine tribe of Camellias are wanted very much, with the 
exception of some plants of the double white, red, and single red; and 
very little more than a couple of dozen of these plants will perhaps be the 
whole stock in the country. I have not yet seen a Camellia with the 
nurserymen about Copenhagen. Most of the New Holland plants are un- 
known. The Epacris grandiflora is one of the very rarest of New Hol- 
land plants. I have not seen it here, but am told a plant of it is in the 
botanic garden. 


546 foreign Notices. — Denmark, North America. 


I would have sent you the Hortus Hafniensis, but on enquiring of M. 
Holboll, the most celebrated botanist and botanical cultivator of Denmark, 
he told me that this book is out of print at present ; but another edition 
will soon be published, which I shall send you as early as possible. I saw, 
in the month of July, a beautiful show of carnations by M. Holbdll, the 
finest collection in this country, and not inferior to Mr. Hogg’s of Pad- 
dington; but this gentleman has for a number of years cultivated car- 
nations and auriculas, in his leisure hours, to a very superior degree of 
perfection. 

The fruit and vegetable market has been well supplied every day this 
summer, and things sold at a very low price. The harvest was remarkably 
fine, but the summer was the best that has occurred for a long time, and 
indeed as good as any body could wish for. Not a pine-apple has been 
seen on the table this year ; but M. Lindegaard will have some ripe fruit 
about the middle of this month, which will be the earliest and finest in the 
country. Iam, dear sir, &e.—J. P. Petersen. Copenhagen, Sept. 3. 1827. 


NORTH AMERICA. 


Horticulture in and about New York. — Sir, In company with a friend, 
I spent the greater part of the summer of 1826, in the vicinity of New 
York; and I take the liberty of sending you a few remarks on the present 
state of horticulture in and about that city, with the hope that they may 
serve to amuse, if not instruct, the readers of your valuable Magazine. From 
its locality, its resources, and the proverbially enterprising character of its 
inhabitants, the state of New York seems destined to take the lead in Ame- 
rica, in this delightful science, as it already does in agriculture and com- 
merce. 

Shortly after our arrival in the city we attended a meeting of the Horti- 
cultural Society there; and had the honour to be introduced to Doctor 
Hosack, the President ; a name not unknown in the records ‘of botanical 
writers. ‘The business of this Society is conducted much on the same prin- 
ciples as they are in this country, and their by-laws and regulations seem 
to have been founded on those of the Linnean Society of London. In addi- 
tion to the usual officers, they have a Lecturer on Botany and Vegetable 
Physiology, the celebrated Doctor Mitchill, no less known for his acquire- 
ments in the arts and sciences, than for the simplicity and urbanity of his 
manners. I will here remark that a professorship of this nature, where 
the young gardener might receive lectures on botany, would, in my opinion, 
be of great utility in this country. I leave the hint with you, well knowing 
that, if you concur in my idea of the subject, you will improve it. It was 
pleasing to me to observe that, though the Society contained among its 
members men eminent for their rank and talents, as well as practical gar- 
deners, there was the greatest unanimity; and though one member, on 
leaving the meeting, would retire to discuss laws, and the rights of nations, 
im the senate, and another to his more humble avocations in the garden, 
there was none of that distant and reserved air, which is so much in fashion 
among our great men, when meeting with those whom they have been 
taught to consider their inferiors. By this cordial junction of wealth, 
rank, and practical skill, much has been done for the science of gardening, 
and more may be justly expected. 

In and about the city are several public parks and gardens, most of which 
are yet in a state of infancy; but they appear to have been selected judi- 
ciously, and with some regard to the health and convenience of the ma- 
jority of the inhabitants. 

Saint John’s Park, in the western section of the city, is of considerable 
extent, and has lately been thrown open to the inhabitants; it is tastefully 


Foreign Notices. — North America. 347 


and very judiciously planted with the ornamental trees and shrubs indige- 
nous to the country. 

Of market-gardens there are abundance, and the markets were amply 
stocked with the choicest fruits and vegetables ; of peaches, in particular, 
there was a great plenty, and fine fruit were selling in the market at 75 cents. 
(about 3s. English) the peck. It was a novelty to us, to see in the market- 
gardens and in the pleasure-grounds of gentlemen, Standard Peach Trees 
bending under the weight of this delicious fruit; and, with the exception of 
the gardens of Charles ; Hall, Ksq., and the market-grounds of Mr. Shaw, we 
did not notice any walls appropriated to the ripening of this fruit. In the 
markets, and at the exhibitions of the Horticultural Society, we saw some 
peaches of an extraordinary size, in particular one called Hoyte’s Lemon 
Clingstone and the Morrisina Pound Peach; a single fruit of the latter 
weighed 1440z. We should not, ourselves, ‘perhaps have given credence 
to this statement merely on hearsay evidence, but we saw the fruit weighed, 
and — but the old proverb is somewhat musty. A new apple, a seedling 
from the celebrated Newtown Pippin, is spoken very highly of: it is called 
Ortley, in honour, as I am informed, of one of the American generals 
in their struggle for independence. I believe trees of these fruits are to be 
found in our Society’s garden; and the public will probably be enabled to 
obtain them from some one or other among the favoured nurserymen. 

We paid a visit to the Linnean Garden at Flushing, which contains a 
numerous and extensive collection of hardy fruits, a very fine assortment 
of herbaceous plants, and a choice selection of ‘Botany oy and New Hol- 
land plants. 

At the New York nursery, under the superintendence ob Mr. Floy, there 
is a good collection of green-house plants, and the greatest variety of Ame- 
rican trees and shrubs I recollect to have seen at any one establishment. 

The nursery of Mr. Hogg at Bloomingdale, and that of Mr. Wilson, at 
Greenwich, are newly established, but fast rising to eminence; the former 
for its fine collection of beautifully grown exotics, and the latter for its 
extensive variety of fruit trees. ‘Too much praise cannot be given to the 

curators of the Linnean Garden for the neatness and regularity which are 
manifested at their establishment. 

The number of private gardens in and about the city is large, but they 
are not, in general, carried to that extent which so justly distinguishes those 
of our own country; nor can it be expected. The United States is em- 
phatically a new world, her political existence scarcely exceeding half a 
century; and I question if any other nation has, in the same period of time, 
made as much progress in this delightful science. 

Since my return, I have been repeatedly asked, by gardeners and others, 
my opinion as to emigrating and settling in this new world. Giving advice, 
I know from experience, is a thankless task ; but the few following “remarks 
may be useful to those who are determined on leaving their native land. 
Gold is not scattered about the streets in America as is imagined by some, 
nor is that country altogether a barren wilderness as is imagined by others. 
The industrious man will find plenty of employment, and get better paid for 
it than in this country, but a fortune is not to be acquired there any more 
than here without industry and perseverance. Clothing is dearer, but pro- 
visions of all kinds are much cheaper. The climate of the middle states 
is much similar to our own. In New York the winters are more severe, . 
but the summers are much warmer. The government is pure and econo- 
mical; taxation is but small; and the rights of the poor man and the rich 
are equally respected. 

In conclusion, J will observe that I visited America with feelings some- 
what prejudiced, and have returned with all my prejudices removed, and 


348 foreign Notices. — North America. 


am, as an Englishman, proud to think that this people, who are fast treading 
upon our heels in every useful art and science, are descended, in a great mea- 
sure, from the same ancestors as ourselves. I am, Sir, &c. — Viator. Ken- 
sington, October 4. 1827. 

Mr. Prince's Nursery Establishment.— Sir, In one of the late numbers 
of your Magazine (vol.ii. p. 90.) is a communication from Mr. William 
Prince, nurseryman, of Long Island, “‘ Corresponding Member of the Hor- 
ticultural Society of London, of the Linnzan Society of Paris, of the Im- 
perial Society of the Georgifili at Florence, &c. &c. !”’ giving a statement 
of his establishment, which, being materially erroneous, I deem it proper to 
correct. 

Mr. Prince states his nurseries as “ much more extensive than any, or 
than all others combined, in America.”? Had he confined his remarks to 
this country, where such assertions are daily made in his advertisements 
and other publications, and where the latitude of expression he unfor- 
tunately allows himself, is fully known, the present communication would 
not have been addressed toyou: but when such assertions are made in Eu- 
rope, where the same facilities of testing the accuracy of his statements do 
not exist, and through the medium of a work so ably conducted and widely 
circulated as the Gardener’s Magazine, it is no longer a merit to be silent ; 
but, on the contrary, it becomes the duty of those engaged in the same 
profession to correct the error, as a portion of the business in which they 
are engaged consists in the exportation of American plants and seeds. 

According to Mr. Prince’s communication to you, his nurseries are 
thirty-two acres in extent. From what I now have to state, you can form 
some estimate of the degree of credit proper to give to the assertion of their 
being “‘ much more extensive than all others combined, in America.” 

The nurseries and gardens of D. and C. Landreth, near Philadelphia, 
cover a space of upwards of forty acres, and have been in full operation for 
many years. The collection of foreign plants is very extensive, and em- 
braces many of the most beautiful productions of Europe, Asia, and Africa, 
together with an immense number of those most highly esteemed plants 
indigenous to North and South America. ; 

In fruits it has always been more the object of the proprietors to select 
from the bulk of each kind those most worthy of cultivation, than to ex- 
tend the list with reference more to number than to merit, as has been the 
case with others; therefore, in intrinsic worth, the selection of fruits they 
cultivate is not surpassed by any in the country. Extensive arrangements 
exist for procuring further valuable additions, and the proprietors annually 
receive vast accessions from abroad. 

The gardens situated near Philadelphia, founded by the late venerable 
John Bartram, seem also to have escaped the recollection of Mr. Prince, 
when addressing you his communication. This establishment, undoubtedly 
the most ancient of any at present flourishing in the United States (having 
been commenced upwards of a hundred years ago), for so many years con- 
ducted by the venerable founder, subsequently by his son, author of Tra- 
vels in Florida, and brother, and now by Robert Carr, Esq., is of very con- 
siderable extent. In American plants, if we include those which are 
herbaceous, it most indisputably takes the lead, more than six acres being 
devoted to their culture. Compared to this establishment, Mr. Prince’s 
may be justly termed in infancy; for though he pompously declares its found- 
ation to be “ about the middle of the last century,” of the truth of which, 
from its former insignificance, we are unable to acquaint ourselves, yet it is 
a fact most undeniable, that, fifteen years ago, it was in many respects third 
rate to others in this country. Still, in defiance of these facts, your own 
pages show how unblushingly he claims the superiority over all others. 


Foreign Notices. — North America. 8349 . 


I have now the original orders before me for nearly three hundred kinds 
of plants and seeds, ordered by Mr. Prince from one of the before-men- 
tioned nurseries within the space of a few months, which, at the moment* 
of ordering, were published in Mr. Prince’s catalogue as in his possession. 
When it is considered that only single (specimen) plants were ordered, is 
it not fair to conclude that not one of them were in his collection ? 

From this single circumstance, you can judge of the character of the 
catalogues he annually distributes. His catalogues may be indeed volumi- 
nous, but not so his collection. 

Other facts could be adduced to show the extreme hallucination of the 
man, but it would be dwelling too long on the follies of a fellow-labourer 
in the vineyard. For the exposition of error this will suffice, whilst the 
writer will be unmindful of any reply it may elicit, truth needing no defence. 
—A Philadelphia Nurseryman. Philadelphia, Sept. 20. 1827. 

The writer of the above letter having given us a reference in London, 
we feel no hesitation in publishing his remarks, however much we may 
regret displeasing Mr. Prince, and risking the loss of his future good services. 
Our plan, in cases of this sort, is as follows: —If Mr. A. B., or any body 
else, make use of our pages as a medium to puff himself up, we shall let 
him do so; but then Mr. A. B. must consider, at the same time, that our 
pages are equally open to Mr.C. D., or any body else, to puff him down. 
We adopt this line of conduct on the general principle of liberty and im- 
partiality, ‘and because we know no more certain way of arriving at the 
truth in any subject than letting every one that has any thing to say about 
it, especially if they can say it well, push their arguments as far as they will 
go. The Editor of a Magazine is not to be considered as sitting in judg- 
ment on the opinions of his correspondents, but rather as presiding among 
them to preserve order, and give every one an opportunity of being fairly 
heard. As to the right and wrong on any subject, every one must judge 
for himself; it shall not be our blame if our readers will not exercise their 
thinking faculties. — Cond. 

Hygeia, near Cincinnati, in the State of Ohio. — Mr. Bullock, founder and 
proprietor of the museum in Piccadilly, a man of an active, intelligent, and 
liberal mind, who has been engaged in various pursuits in both hemispheres, 
has lately made a journey in North America. Mr. Bullock was “so pleased 
with the country in the neighbourhood of Cincinnati, and convinced of its 
eligibility, in every respect, for the residence of persons of limited property, 
that he purchased an extensive estate with a handsome house there, within 
a mile of the city, to which he is about to retire with his family. The spot 
is so beautiful and salubrious, and affords such facilities for the erection of 
pleasurable dwellings, with gardens to them, that, on his arrival in England, 
with a survey of the estate, he engaged Mr. John B. Papworth, the archi- 
tect, to lay out the most beautiful part of it as a town of retirement, to be 
called Hygeia. This will enable persons desirous of establishing themselves 
in this abundant and delightful country, to do so at a very moderate ex- 
pense. Mr. Bullock returns to this estate immediately, and application may 
be made to Mr. Papworth, 10, Caroline Street, Bedford Square, where the 
plan and model of the spot may be seen.’’ Persons in the country may 
procure further information by purchasing Mr. Bullock’s Sketch of a Journey 
through the Western States of North America, 12mo, 5s., which contains a 
description of Cincinnati, and a large plan of Hygeia, very cleverly arranged 
by Mr. Papworth, at once a literary man, an architect, and a landscape- 
gardener. There could not be a better situation for an able-bodied hor- 
ticulturist who can command 500/., and who has, or is likely to have, fifteen 
or twenty healthy children. 


350 Domestic Notices. — England. 


Art. II. Domestic Notices. 
ENGLAND. 


Ivy on-Timber Trees, —I am far from thinking ivy a friendly companion 
to a flourishing tree, and it may have escaped the notice of those who have 
the management of trees, that cutting ivy down to the ground, in order to 
prevent it from injuring the tree, is not so good a way as cutting it off as high 
as a man can reach, and then pulling it down and leaving it prostrate on 
the ground. The reason is, the sap in the latter case is directed to its 
extremities, while, in the former, it would be employed in forming fresh 
and stronger shoots at the root of the tree. I allude to such trees as may 
have dry, large, straight boles, which are fine objects when not disfigured by 
ivy. Ido not mean to say that ivy should be prevented from covering 
wretched-looking trees; it being in such cases a pleasing appendage. I do not 
consider ivy a parasitical plant, but it must hurt young growing timber, by 
compressing its trunk. ‘The plantations I have the care of have been for 
some years left to themselves, and last winter I began dismantling them; 
but I think it more prudent to defer doing it extensively till spring, when 
all danger from the frost getting to the bole is over; for trees thickly co- 
vered with ivy, when too suddenly exposed in extreme frosts, are very often 
injured. — Hortulanus. : 

Preparing the Soil, previously to planting. — In a very intelligent article 
on the subject of planting, in the Quarterly Review for October, attributed 
to Sir Walter Scott, the following passage occurs : — “ It may be some com- 
fort to know, that as far as we have observed, the difference betwixt the 
growth of plantations, where the ground has been prepared, or otherwise, 
supposing the soil alike, and plants put in with equal care, seems to disap- 
pear within the first ten or twelve years. It is only in its earliest days that 
the plant enjoys the benefit of having its roots placed amongst earth which 
has been rendered loose and penetrable : at a certain period the fibres reach 
the subsoil, which the spade or plough has not disturbed, and thus the final 
growth of the tree which has enjoyed this advantage is often not greater 
than that of its neighbour, upon which no such indulgences were ever be- 
stowed.” 

The writer here only states his own experience, which is that, “as far as 
he has observed, the effect of preparing the ground disappears in ten or 
twelve years.” It is reasonable to suppose that much of the effect of pre- 
paring the surface soil will depend on the nature of the subsoil. Where 
the subsoil is good and deep, the advantages of preparing the surface will 
be immense, by giving the roots strength to penetrate into it so much sooner, 
and so much more effectually than would otherwise be the case. But even 
where the subsoil is bad, preparing the surface soil will enable the plants to 
make a more effectual use of it, and the sooner to supply, in the form of 
leaves and decayed spray, nourishment for themselves. Supposing both 
these advantages denied, there will remain a third, viz. that if in any given 
soil and situation a tree can only attain a certain size, whether the soil be 
prepared or unprepared, it is allowed, even by the writer in the Review, 
that the tree in the prepared soil will attain that size sooner. This alone 
will, we believe, in most cases be found a sufficient compensation for the 
expense of preparing the soil. 

The Scotch Pine. —In the same Review the following passage occurs : — 
“ Such Firs [Pines], therefore, as are ultimately designed to remain as prin- 
cipal trees, ought to be of this kind [the red pine], though it may probably 
cost the planter some trouble to procure the seed from the Highlands. The 
ordinary fir is an inferior variety, brought from Canada not more than half 


Domestic Notices. — England. Sait 


a century ago. Being very prolific, the nursery-gardeners found it easy to 
raise it in immense quantities ; and thus, though a mean-looking tree, and 
producing wood of little comparative value, it has superseded the natural 
plant of the country, and is called, par excellence, the Scotch Fir.” (p. 580.) 

Mr. David Don, the librarian of the Linnean Society, whose late father, 
the celebrated botanist of Forfar, paid great attention to the different va- 
rieties of Scotch Pine, and wrote on the subject in the Z’ransactions of the 
Highland Society of Scotland, knows nothing of what is asserted by the 
reviewer. We have written to Sir Walter Scott, and to Mr. Reid of Aber- 
deen, who raises more Scotch pines from seed than any man in Scotland, 
but this must necessarily go to press before we can receive an answer from 
either of these gentlemen. 

Law of Succession in Timber Trees.— That which I would observe to 
you from the wood at Wooton, is that where goodly oaks grew, and were 
cut down by my grandfather almost a hundred years since, is now alto- 
gether beech; and where my brother has extirpated the beech, there rises 
birch. Under the beech spring up innumerable hollies, which, growing 
thick and close together in one of the woods next the meadow, is a viretum 
all the year long, which is a very beautiful sight when the leaves of the 
taller trees are fallen. (Letter from John Evelyn, Esq., to John Aubrey, Esq., 
in Aubrey’s Surrey, vol. 1.) 

The Cow Cabbage, Brdssica olerdcea var. arboréscens. —1 enclose a few 
seeds of an arborescent cabbage, introduced from La Vendée by the cele- 
brated Comte de Puysaye, which promises to be an important acquisition 
to agriculture. I have seen it growing in the garden of my friend Admiral 
Brooting here to the height of 8 ft. ‘In La Vendée, I am told, it attains an 
altitude of from 12 to 16, or even more feet. Being a native of a warmer 
climate, it should be planted in a warm and sheltered situation ; sixty plants 
are said to afford sufficient provender for one cow for a year, and as the 
side shoots only are to be used, it lasts four years without fresh planting. A 
square of 60 ft. will contain 256 plants, 4 ft. apart, or sixteen more than four 
cows require for a year’s provender, without the aid of other food. I shall 
be glad to hear the report of its success from those to whom you may com- 
municate the seed. — W. Hamilton. Oxford Place, Plymouth, Oct. 12. 

The number of seeds were about three dozen, six of which we have sent 
to John Thomas Brookes, Hsq., of Flitwick House, near Ampthill (p. 246.) ; 
six to John Braddick, Esq., of Boughton Mount, near Maidstone; six to 
Mr. Thompson, of Welbeck gardens; six to Mr. Bisset, of Methven Castle 
gardens ; six to Mr. Gorrie, of Annat gardens; and six to Mr. Barnet, of 
the Caledonian Horticultural Society’s garden, Edinburgh; and we shall be 
glad to learn the success which these cultivators may have in raising plants, 
and their opinion as to their utility in agriculture. — Cond. 

Large Cabbage. — Mr. Rebert Lane, of Mottram St. Andrew, near 
Macclesfield, sowed an onion bed in March last: among the seed was a 
stray cabbage seed of the Scotch kind; without being hoed, or any care 
taken of it, it grew to an enormous size, and being cut in October, was 
found to be of the extraordinary weight of 25 lbs. (Macclesfield Herald.) 

Immense Cabbage. — Mr. James Elliott, of Saltash, has cut from his gar- 
den a cabbage, which measured 5 ft. in circumference, and weighed 60 lbs. 
When growing, it occupied 15 ft. of ground. (Plymouth Journal.) 

A Swedish Turnip was pulled in October last, by Mr. Whillington, of 
Send, in the county of Surrey, which measured more than one yard in cir- 
cumference, and weighed 21 lbs. It was sown in July. The same gentle- 
man had also, on the 26th of October, some strawberries in blossom in the 
open air, and some nearly ripe. (London Packet.) 

Potatoes. — Several sent to the editor of the Scotsman, weighed from 10 
to 12 lbs. each; one plant in the garden of Mr. T. Cartwright, of Clifton, 


352 Domestic Notices. — England. 


Worcestershire, produced ninety-four tubers, all sound, and of good size; 
one potato cut into twenty-one sets, produced 117 lbs., or upwards of two 
bushels, a bushel weighing half a cwt. (Newsp.) 

Several large Gourds have been sent us, and notices of the weight of 
others : out of about twenty specimens, the largest we have seen or heard 
of is a Mammoth Gourd in the window of Messrs Noble and Goude, seeds- 
men, Fleet Street. It was raised in the garden of Henry Hoare, Esq., Mit- 
cham Grove, Surrey, weighs 159 lbs., and measures 7 ft. 4 in. round. The 
second largest was grown in the garden of W. H. Bracebridge, Esq., at 
Wellesbourne, by Mr. G. Braithwaite, and weighed 145 lbs. ; and the third 
in the garden of John Cresswell, Esq., Beacon Hill, Exmouth, Devonshire, 
and weighed 156 lbs. — Cond. 

A Hydrangea is now growing in the garden at Amroth Castle in the 
county of Pembroke, belonging to David Dick, Esq., of Glenshill, which 
measures 351 feet in circumference, and displays 852 handsome flowers. 
(Warwick Chronicle, Sept.) 

A Hydrangea in the pleasure-ground of the Earl of Ashburnham, Ash- 
burnham Place, Sussex, last summer produced the extraordinary number 
of 1072 bunches of flowers. The plant is about 30 ft.in circumference, and 
about 5 ft. in height. —B. Battle. Sussex, Dec. 1. 1827. 

A great quantity of Seeds from the Straits of Magellan have been lately 
received by Mr. Mackay of the Clapton nursery. From these he has al- 
ready raised the celebrated Winter Bark, Drimia Wintéri Dec., and Win- 
téra aromatica Willd. Many of the plants raised are expected to prove 
hardy. (Sweet's Flora Australasica.) 

The Four first-rate Polyanthuses cultivated in Lancashire are the Bang all 
Europe (21s.), Princess Royal (10s.), Earl of Ollerton (10s.), and Black 
Stranger (5s.). The two first were shown at Manchester last spring, and 
were considered to surpass every thing before exhibited.—/. S. July, 1827. 

My Arracécha plants are doing well, and seem sufficiently hardy for our 
climate; two of them have flowered. Next spring I shall try them 
in the open ground, and hope in a couple of years to have roots enough to 
supply a few of those, whose agricultural enterprise and public spirit lead 
them to take an interest in the introduction of new and valuable articles 
for cultivation. —William Hamilton. Oxford Place, Plymouth, Oct. 12. 

A botanical garden at Manchester is in contemplation by the Floral and 
Horticultural Society at that town.— S. Manchester, Oct. 14. 

Myrrh. — A reward of 25/., or a gold medal of equal value, has been 
offered by the Medico-Botanical Society, for an accurate description of the 
plant yielding the myrrh, which is supposed to be merely the produce of the 
A’myris Kataf. (Newsp.) 

The Powder of Horsechestnuts being mixed with a third of flour, is found 
to make better paste than that made from flour only. (Mech. Mag., viii. 
p- 223.) Weare glad to observe that these nuts can be applied to some 
useful purpose, and hope some country shoemaker or bookbinder will take 
the hint. — Cond. 

Burnet, Potérium sanguisérba, so much used by the French and Italians 
in their salads, is of so cheering and exhilarating a quality, that it has passed 
into a proverb in Italy, that no salad can be good without it. (Hvelyn.) 

Pine-apples at Shugborough.— Our pines here this season. have been very 
fine. I have cut upwards of 500 within the last twelve months. The 
Anson, or Otaheite, is an admirable pine; I have cut a great quantity of 
them this season, weighing generally from 63 to 74 lbs. I did not fruit 
many of the New Providence this season, but what I did were uncommonly 
fine; in August I cut five of the following weights: one of 121 lbs., two of 
111 lbs., one of 104 lbs., and one of 102 lbs.; the united weights of which 
were 552 lbs. avoirdupois.—_W. M‘Murtrie. Shugborough, Nov. 23. 1827. 


Domestic Notices. — England. Boe 


The Grape Vines, for my new trellis, now well established, are the Black 
Raisin, West St. Peter’s, Black Damascus, grafted on the St. Petersburgh (as 
in a communication to the Gardener’s Magazine by Mr. Oldaker), besides 
Black Muscadel, Syrian, and Black Hamburgh. I intend to procure the Tot- 
tenham Park new White Muscat Grape vine also, and am informed 58s. are 
now demanded for it. — C. Hale Jessop. Cheltenham, September, 1827. 

Latefiowering Roses. —Specimens of the following sorts, finely in bloom, 
were sent us by Mr. Donald, of the Woking nursery, on the 22d of Octo- 
ber : — Four Seasons, Monthly White Cluster, Monthly Red Cluster, Musk 
Cluster, New double Musk, Fraser’s new Black China Musk, White Noi- 
sette, Blush China, Barclay’s new Purple China, Scarlet China, Dwarf small- 
flowered China, Tea-scented China, and Yellow China. 

Coe’s Golden Drop Apple.—Sir, I beg to submit to you a few spe- 
cimens of an apple raised from the seed of the Old Nonpareil, about twenty 
years since, by Mr. Coe, of Bury St. Edmund’s, Suffolk, and called by him 
Coe’s Golden Drop Apple. As adessert apple for the months of February, 
March, and April, I think it is scarcely equalled; like most apples it has 
ripened rather prematurely both this season and last, but it always retains 
its poignancy and juice. Quite late in the spring it shrivels, and is then 
very delicious. The above-named gentleman is the same who raised that 
excellent fruit, Coe’s Golden Drop Plum; he was a correspondent of ours, 
and sent cuttings here both of the apple and plum, as soon as their respective 
good qualities were ascertained. ‘The plum is now well known, but the 
apple not so well, owing, I suppose, to the multiplicity of sorts of good 
apples dividing the palm of merit with the very good sorts. We have cul- 
tivated it rather extensively here, and now feel so convinced of its good 
qualities as regards bearing and keeping, that I am induced to ask your opi- 
nion of its merits in respect to flavour. The trees grow remarkably vigorous, 
handsome, and free from canker. JI also send two or three of a pear which 
I found in some old gardens in the neighbourhood; it does well for defi- 
client seasons, as it always bears, and is one of the hardiest trees possible. 
In average seasons it keeps till February. I should feel obliged by its 
name. lam, Sir, &c. — 7. Rivers, jun. Sawbridgeworth, Hertfordshire, 
December 7. 1827. 

The apples are handsome, and very well flavoured; the pears melting 
and juicy, and we should suppose allied to the Brown Beurrée. — Cond. 

The best Standard Pear.—I have made my mind up as to the best 
autumn standard pear, which is the Forme de Marie Louise ; I received 
it from M. van Mons, Lest it should be confounded with the Marie 
Louise, which is not so good a standard pear in our climate, I should 
mention that the wood of the Forme de Marie Louise is stronger than 
that of the Marie Louise; the tree, altogether, is more vigorous; very 
hardy ; falls early into fruit; and is an exceeding great bearer. The fruit 
is larger, and of a more russety colour than that of the Marie Louise, 
and, in my opinion, of a much higher flavour ; it is melting, and continues 
in eating till the first week of December, being fully six weeks from the 
time it first comes to table. 

The best new wall pear that I have yet tasted for the present season is 
the Bonne Malinoise, or Neilis d’Hiver, for they are both the same; its 
season is just gone by. 

The follewing pears I consider as unfit for our climate : — Beurrée Drée ; 
Decandolle; Colmar Van Mons; and FrancisII. Accept this information 
as an earnest of what I will do when I can. My dear Sir, yours, &c. — 
John Braddick. Boughton Mount, December 6. 

Mulberries and Walnuts. — One of the characteristics of the present age 
is the quickness with which productions are obtained, for which formerly 
we were obliged to wait many years. A friend of mine, who has not planted 


Vor. III. — No. 11. AA 


354 Domestic Notices. — Scotland. 


his garden more than two years, has already gathered mulberries and wal- 
nuts; the latter are from considerable trees, which had borne in the nur-~ 
sery before removal, and which were obtained from Harrison and Co. of 
Brompton ; the former are from standard trees from Buchanan’s nursery, 
Camberwell, which contains by far the largest plants of this tree in the 
trade; many of them have borne fruit for two or three years, and when 
removed to a private garden with care, will bear the first year. — A. S. 
August 20. ne ra 

Removing large Fruit Trees. —Sir, As much diversity of opinion has 
for a great while prevailed respecting the removing of large fruit trees, at 
least after they have attained a considerable size, I herewith transmit you 
four fruit from a Gansell Bergamot Pear, as part of the produce of a tree 
that was removed by me about seven years since. It was at that time about 
fifteen years old, in a very unhealthy state, and growing as a standard tree. 
When I removed it, I divested it of all its branches, leaving it a bare pole. 
I then planted it against an east wall, with no preparation but that of pud- 
dling the soil well when planted. The third year after planting, it produced 
40 fruit as fine as those now sent; the next year, 130; the next year 100, 
most of them larger than the present four; and this year it has produced 
60 of a similar size, and is still in a thriving condition. I may, perhaps, at 
a future time, trouble you with some remarks on the pruning of pear trees. 
I am, Sir, &c. —Wm. Moore. Green-Street House, East Ham, Oct. 20. 

Chloride of Lime, it is said, will destroy insects on trees, and prevent 
effluvia from arising from vegetables or other matter in a state of decompo- 
sition. It was used in France to preserve the bodies of those unfortunate 
persons who had destroyed themselves, until owned by their friends. A 
body, if washed with the preparation, will keep for weeks without alteration 
or offensive odour. Timber washed with it will be preserved from the 
effects of damp and confined air, and it would also prevent the spread of 
dry-rot, and destroy insects on plants. (Newsp.) 


SCOTLAND. 


Fall of Leaves. — An article on this subject, translated from a paper by 
Professor Vaucher in the Memoirs of the Natural History Society at 
Geneva, is given in Brewster’s Journal for October 1826, which appears to 
us to account for the phenomena of the fall of the leaf in a more satisfac- 
tory manner than any preceding theory. According to Professor Vaucher, 
every leaf consists of a distinct system of fibres, which have only a tem- 
porary continuity and union with the shoot, kept up by a kind of adhesive 
substance, which, when the purposes of the leaf to the parent plant are 
served, is dried up or dissolved. “ This adhesive substance is probably 
formed by some portion of the parenchyma interposed between the two 
systems of fibres. While this parenchyma is under the influence of the 
vegetable action, the adhesion is maintained ; when this action ceases, the 
union is dissolved, and the leaf falls.’ The reasonableness and truth of 
this theory, as far as respects dicotyledonous plants, becomes more obvious 
by reflecting on the difference between the decay of leaves and the decay 
of tendrils. The leaves of palms, grasses, bulbs, and other Monocotyle- 
donez, in a strict sense, cannot be said ever to drop from the plants. Dr. 
Brewster judiciously observes, that M. Vaucher is the first who has directed 
botanists to the organic structure at the base of the petiole; and he adds, 
that a similar arrangement probably prevails in the other parts of plants 
which successively drop off, and the. connection of whose vessels with those 
of the stem, though necessarily intimate, is merely temporary. A new field 
is thus opened for botanical research. 

Grapes ripened in the open Air.— There is at present te be seen in a 
small garden: adjoining the property of George Fenton, Esq., sheriff-sub- 


Domestic Notices. — Ireland. 355 


stitute, Elgin, at present possessed by Alexander Denoon, weaver, a vine 
containing at least one hundred clusters of grapes, some of which have 
already ripened, and both bunches and berries are, generally, of a good size. 
This vine grows against the end of a house fronting the south ; and this is the 
second crop that has come to perfection on it in the open air, Last season 
there were between thirty and forty clusters which came to full maturity, 
equally good with any that come from England. There is also a fig tree in 
the same garden, which has, during last season and the present, carried figs 
fully ripe. (Scotsman, Oct.) a 

Two Crops of Potatoes in one Season.— We were shown, the other day, 
a specimen of a second crop of potatoes raised by Mr. Bell, farmer, Heath 
Hall, which were certainly very fair in point of size, and are said to be 
superior in point of quality. The first crop was planted on the 12th of 
April, and finally raised on the 12th of July, sets of an earlier variety having 
been used than what is customary in extensive fields. The produce was 
abundant, and, by competing with the early crops grown in gardens, the pro- 
prietor realised more by his potatoes than if he had allowed them longer 
time to grow. The moment the ground was cleared, the plough was put in 
motion, and the whole dunged and planted a second time. This occurred on 
the 14th July, and on the 23d current a second crop was raised, larger and 
in better condition than the first. The land, of course, from the dung 
used, is still in such heart that an excellent crop of wheat may be expected 
to follow. The dropping nature of the season has certainly favoured Mr. 
Bell’s experiment ; but what he has done others may do, and he deserves 
credit for the example he has set in a very useful kind of husbandry. 
(Dumfries Courier, October.) : 

Large Potatoes. — Mr. J. Thomson has politely sent to our office two 
potatoes of the common red variety, grown in his grounds at Roseburn, 
the one weighing 2 lbs., and the other, which he takes for the average of 
the plot, weighing 26 0z. (Scotsman, Oct. 51.) 

An undescribed Shrub, which supplies wholesome and limpid Water, has 
been discovered in our new Indian countries, from whose stem, when di- 
vided, there issues a copious vegetable spring of limpid and wholesome 
water. (Brewster's Journal, Oct. 1827.) 


IRELAND. 


Small Farms are rapidly melting away on the Marquess of Lansdowne’s 
property in Queen’s county. The farm houses are constructed upon- an 
excellent plan, such as promises comfort, and gives temptation to cleanliness, 
a desideratum in the rural life of Ireland; and munificent allowances are 
granted by this nobleman out of the landlord’s rent, towards insuring a 
sufficient incitement to the tenant’s interest, and an inducement to seek 
after the enjoyment of comfort. (Dublin Correspondent.) 

A mushroom of the remarkable size of 11 in. in diameter, and 6 in. in 
height, was found on a gentleman’s estate in the county of Cork; it weighed 
6 0z. -We understand it is to be preserved and sent to the Museum of 
Edinburgh. (Dundee Cour., Aug. 3.) 

Thirty Thousand Mulberry Trees are now growing on the estate of Lord 
Kingston, in the county of Cork, who has already sent a quantity of raw 
silk to the market. (Newspaper.) ; 

A Selection of Names of hardy Fruit Trees is just published, in one sheet 
or table, by Mr. Edward Lindsay, nurseryman, Belfast. It is accompanied 
by an engraving, representing the mode of training dwarfs and standards. 
Gentlemen in Ireland might write for it to be sent by post. When a second 
edition is called for, we would recommend Mr, Lindsay to compare the 
spelling of the names with that of the Horticultural Society’s catalogue. 

AA @ 


356 Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Art. III. Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Oct. 2.— Evhibited. Double Dahlias. Late Ranunculuses, from Mr. 
Henry Groom, F.H.S., of Walworth. White French Cucumber and Pastis- 
son Gourds. Red Celery and Apples unnamed, from Josias Baker, Esq. 
Primley Nuts and Paignton Marigold Apples. An orange resembling the 
Orange de Grasse of Risso, from the Hon. Mrs. Dymoke. _Cratze‘gus odo- 
ratissima, a collection of Apples, and true old Autumn Bergamotte and 
Carter’s Beurrée Pears, from Mr. Thomas Gibbs, F.H.S. Black Hamburgh 
Grapes. Early Spanish and Scarlet-fleshed Melons, grown in the open 
air, by Mr. John Wells, of Airsford Hill, Sussex. Peaches from a standard 
tree, from Mr. C. Hale Jessop, nurseryman, at Cheltenham. A collection of 
Apples and Pears from Mr. Hugh Ronalds, F.H.S. Five sorts of Apples and 
ten sorts of Pears, from Mr. James Smith, F.H.S., of Hopetoun House. A 
branch of a Swan’s Egg Pear. Seventeen sorts of Pears and thirty-nine 
sorts of Apples, from Mr. John George Fuller, F.H.S. Fifteen sorts of 
Apples. Seedling Apples, from Mr. George Forder, of Winchester. Fif- 
teen sorts of Apples, from Mr. Joseph Kirke, F.H.S. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Fifteen sorts of Apples, Catherine 
and Sanguinole Peaches, Blacksmith’s White Cluster Grape, Flowers of 
Double Dahlias, and Vaccinium padifolium caucaseum. 

Oct. 16. — Exhibited. Flowers of the Wheat-ear Carnation, Royal 
Muscadine Grapes, specimens of the Verlaine Pear, and seventeen sorts of 
Apples, from Mr. Joseph Kirke, F.H.S. Flowers of Helianthus tomen- 
tosus, Stévia sp.? from Mexico, and Solanum angulatum ; also, specimens of 
Apples and Pears, from Robert Barclay, Esq. F.H.S. Late Ranunculuses, 
from Mr. Henry Groom, F.H.S. Water Melons, from W. Pitt, Esq., of 
Kingston, near Dorchester, Dorsetshire. White Nice Grapes. Verdelho 
and Malvoisie Grapes. Doyenné Dorée Pear, and Kirke’s Scarlet admirable 
Apple. Two Seedling Apples, from Mr. Thomas Moffatt, F.H.S. Apples 
from John Moxon, Esq. ¥.H.S., called the Newtown Pippin, an indifferent 
soft apple, and not the Newtown. ‘Thirty-three sorts of apples from Mr. 
Thomas Gibbs, F.H.S. Ashmead’s Kernel Apple. Burge’s George IV. 
Apple. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Flowers of Double Dahlias, five 
sorts of Tomatos, nine sorts of Celery, Pitmaston White Cluster Grape, 
Duchesse d’Angouléme and Gilogil Pear, and nine sorts of Apples. 

Nov. 6.— Read. Description of a new mode of constructing Hot- 
houses, by Mr. W. Deykes, of Knightsbridge. On the cultivation of the 
Horseradish, as practised in Denmark and Germany, in a letter to the 
Secretary, by Mr. Jens Peter Petersen. 

Exhibited. A candle made of the wax of Myrica cerifera, and flax from 
the fibre of a species of Aloe, from John Campbell Lees, Esq. C.M.H.S. 
Potiron Jaune Gourd, weighing 136 lbs., from John Creswell, Esq. F.H.S. 
Solid Red Celery. Three sorts of Potatoes, three scrts of Pears, and 
thirty-six sorts of Apples, from Mr. John Haythorn, C.M.H.S. A new 
Seedling Pear from Nunholm Garden, and eight sorts of Apples from Wil- 
liam Grierson, Esq. Secretary to the Dumfries and Galloway Horticultural 
Society. Uvedale’s St. Germain Pear, weighing 2 lbs., from Nathaniel Gos- 
ling, Esq. F.H.S. Eighty-six sorts of Apples from Mr. Thomas Gibbs, 
F.H.S. Two varieties of Seedling Apples, from Miss Nottidge, of Wands- 
worth. Specimens of the Alfreston Apple. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Flowers of twenty-two sorts of 
Chrysanthemums, and several sorts of Double Dahlias; two sorts of Car- 
doons, viz. the Red and Spanish; Chinese Quince; Snow Pear of China; 
four sorts of Pears, and four sorts of Apples. 


Horticultural Society and Garden. 357 


Nov. 20.— Read. Remarks on the proper Elevation of Forcing-houses, 
by Frederick Bourne, Esq. F.H.S. 

Exhibited. Fine curled Parsley, from Mr. Samuel Knevett, F.H.S. 
Chrysanthemums, from the garden of Sir Thomas Dyke Acland, Bart. 
F.HLS., sent by Mr. William Craggs, the gardener. Double Dahlias, and a 
collection of Apples from Mr. James Young, F.H.S. A hybrid Romana 
Melon, and five sorts of Seedling Apples, from Mr. Charles Harrison, F.H.S. 
Malvoisie and Verdelho Grapes, from Daniel Edward Stephens, Esq. F.H.S. 
Twenty-one sorts of Pears, and eight sorts of Apples, from Monsieur Louis 
Claude Noisette, C.M.H.S. Swan’s Ege Pears. Four sorts of Apples, from 
Sir George Stewart Mackenzie, Bart. F.H.S. Ashmead’s Kernel Apple. 
Kentish Giant Apple. Twenty sorts of Apples, from the garden of the 
Karl of Powis, F..S.; and Apples from Mr. Alexander Duncan, gardener 
to the Marchioness of Londonderry. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Flowers of forty-five sorts of 
Chrysanthemums. 

The Chiswick Féte, in Reply to Philo-Olitorum. (p. 251.) —.Sir, As you 
have repeatedly asserted that your pages are open to every one choos- 
ing to express his opinion on the subjects connected with your valuable 
publication, I trust I do not draw too liberally upon your indulgence if I 
presume to expect you will give insertion to the following sentiments, 
called forth by what I consider the illiberal, and, certainly, very violent, 
letter of your correspondent, Philo-Olitorum. 

As I am aware you will not allow your respectable work to become 
the medium of senseless, unserviceable controversy, so I am most unwilling 
to be thought to encourage such a prostitution of it, yet there is that in 
the spirit of your correspondent’s epistle which I think ought not to 
have a place in your columns unanswered; and, as you have assimilated 
yourself to the character of a jolly innkeeper, bound to serve all customers, 
provided their outward bearing will stand scrutiny, I cannot help thinking 
that, in your character of mine host, you have come in for a greater share 
of abuse (as sometimes happens to a good-natured landlord when he chances 
to receive a choleric guest) than you calculated upon or deserved. 

I do not attempt to criticise Philo-Olitorum by piece-meal, his letter 
being too long for my leisure or your patience; I shall only begin where 
he is so hard upon you; so, in courtesy, you are bound to support me, 
which, by the way, | beg and pray for. 

After being very, very severe on you for allowing that the Horticultural 
Féte, if frequently repeated in the course of the season, would be repre- 
hensible, but that, once a year, it was not only harmless, but by calling in 
the influence of the fashionable world, as an auxiliary support to such an 
institution, it might be useful, he charges you with such impetuosity, 
such a torrent of words, “ huddling sentence upon sentence with such im- 
passable conveyance upon you” as Shakspeare has it, that some of your 
country readers, your lovers, and admirers, were really fearful you would 
sink under so furious an attack; and their commiseration was excited 
accordingly. There were others who thought they saw farther into the 
reason of your silence, and that you were only, like a canny Scotchman, 
joukin’ to let the jaw gae by. After bearing you down thus arbitrarily, he 
takes a position (one would imagine, he thought he had you prostrate, and 
his foot upon your breast), and triumphantly exclaims, show me when 
science ever flourished under the auspices of fashion ? Now, really, I know 
no way so good for getting you on your feet again, as by soberly asking 
your violent antagonist, when did science ever flourish independent of its 
influence? And now, having restored you to the position proper to a 
biped (from which it is a shame you should have been reduced, even in idea), 
I hope I will not thereby come in for the reddin’ stroke, which 1s always, and 

AAS 


358 Horticultural Society and Garden. 


often with justice, deprecated as the worst blow in the fight, but I will 
risk all consequences, and, as I have adopted your quarrel, I will continue 
it on my own account, and, perhaps, in my zeal (for there is no saying how 
far one may go, when the blood’s up) carry it farther than you will thank 
me for. But as I have now brought serious business upon myself, I must 
meet it with becoming gravity if I can. 

Philo-Olitorum considers that the Horticultural Society ought to be 
entirely independent of the aid and influence of the fashionable world ; 
that it cannot exist under its auspices. Now I cannot, for my life, con- 
ceive what sort of thing or monster he kas conjured. up in his imagination, 
under. the idea of the fashionable world, that has such a withering influence 
in its aspect, that science cannot exist under it. Is it not the generally 
received opinion, that the fashionable world is composed of the rank, 
wealth, and talent of the country ? If that be allowed, I would like to know 
what art or science can flourish without its immediate patronage. But I 
insist, particularly, that its countenance is so essential to the flourishing of 
horticulture, that it is only second to the sun in its effects upon it. With- 
out its powerful cooperation, we gardeners would only be an undis- 
tinguished set of ditchers and delvers, even the very grubs would despise 
us, and eat their meal in comfort and security! When Philo argues that 
because the Society is supported by funcs (voluntary subscriptions, be it 
remembered) amply adequate for all its purposes, it has all it wants, he 
puts me in mind of the poct’s celebrated lines on the ascent of ambition, 
so well known. “ Lowliness is young Ambition’s ladder,” &c. &c.; but 
before the Horticultural Society can maintain its footing upon the “ utmost 
round,” — “ look in the clouds,”’ &c. as he would have it, some rich Philo- 
Olitorum must “ die and endow it.” In short, my opinion entirely coin- 
cides with Mr. Loudon’s, that opening the Society’s garden once a year 
for the admission of the fashionable world cannot be detrimental (far less 
derogatory) to the interest, of the Society, or horticulture in general. 
Horticulture is like a fair lady, but as I am in some dread of Philo’s sort of 
negative admission of gardeners having a right to be gallant sometimes, and, 
as I would not wish to offend even his sense of propriety by the most distant 
allusion, I will say, like Virtue, the more she is seen and known, the better 
her fine qualities are appreciated, and, of consequence, the more generally: 
beloved. 

I would add no more, as I am afraid of being accused of trifling with 
your valuable time, but candour obliges one to take notice of the sweeping 
condemnation of the conduct and management of the Council of the Hor- 
ticultural Society your correspondent indulges in. Surely it cannot be 
merited altogether. It has a difficult business in hand, and although it may 
have committed some errors, yet I really have my doubts whether the 
matter would be mended if Philo-Olitorum were made President, and had 
the appointing of the Council to boot. The Council is chosen from amongst 
what are considered the most enlightened of the members; from the 
very nature of the business, being purely or in a great degree experimental, 
it must be allowed a discretionary power. Now, in horticulture, there is 
such variety of methods, so much scope for taste, and such a conflict of opi- 
nions regarding what is best for every thing, or any thing, that it is almost, 
impossible that any Council, however chosen, can give universal satisfaction. 
Nor is it to be expected that it should give explanations for every thing 
undertaken, which in many cases, perhaps, can only be justified by the 
results, to every angry expostulator who chooses (on the strength of being 
a Fellow, I suppose,) to demand them. Such a compliance would only 
tend to embarrassment. As it is to be presumed the Council will always be 
composed of men the likeliest to forward the objects of the Society, I 
think experience alone will enable it to compass its great and complicated 


Provincial Societies. 359 


views to the satisfaction of the candid. It would be endless and useless to 
undertake to satisfy men whose gall appears to be ever on the overflow. 
With one more apology for this too long letter, I remain, Sir, your most 
obedient servant, — Olitor. November 23. 1827. 


ArT. IV. Provincial Horticultural Societies. 


Ross Horticultural Society. — The fifteenth show of this institution took 
place on the 10th of October, being the last for this year. At twelve o’clock 
the subscribers held their Annual Meeting at the Swan Hotel, Whaley Ar- 
mitage, Esq. in the chair, (in the absence of the Society’s chairman, Sir H. 
Hoskyns, Bart.,) when the present committee, treasurer, and secretary were 
reelected for the ensuing year. At two o’clock the show room was thrown 
open, and to its close was filled by a most fashionable and numerous 
attendance of subscribers and their friends, notwithstanding the very unfa- 
vourable state of the weather. The officers fully expected an unusual 
display of Pomona’s treasures, and suitable arrangements were made the 
previous day for the supply, but at an early hour the arrivals filled the 
allotted spaces, and it became necessary to have three large tables, these 
soon became so filled, that a row of fruit plates was placed on benches the 
length of the room. ‘The number of plates of fruit amounted to nearly 
600. Our worthy county member, Sir J. G. Cottrell, Bart., was the largest 
contributor : Sir John produced 55 specimens; J. Collins, Esq. 47; John 
Cooke, Esq. 58; many other subscribers furnished 20 specimens, and a 
great many about a dozen. The whole display of fruits afforded a rich and 
interesting treat, and every one admitted that it surpassed their most san- 
guine expectations. The stage dedicated to Flora ranged the top of the 
room, crowning Pomona’s rich banquet. The upper part was filled with 
green-house plants, and underneath 380 of the Society’s bottles sparkled 
with double dahlias of surpassing richness in colouring and beauty. On this 
stage were 36 seedling double flowers, and to some of them prizes were most 
deservedly awarded. Most of the bottles contained two and three flowers 
of each variety, which produced the best effect. ‘The out-door grapes were 
very fine, and above twenty plates were exhibited for prizes. The evening’s 
sale of fruits, not removed by exhibitors, produced the extraordinary sum 
of 8/. 3s. 11d. The total number of specimens ticketed and entered into 
the Society’s books amounted to 998. Numerous prizes were awarded, 
(Hereford Journal, October 17.) 

The Horticultural Garden at Warwick is about two acres in extent, and 
is the property of Brookhouse, Esq. Until within these two years he 
had it in his own possession as a private kitchen-garden. He then let it to 
Mr. Barnes, who had left his situation as serving gardener. Mr. Barnes 
has since styled it the Horticultural Garden. He has two fruiting pineries 
and pits, and very pretty peach-house. —G. B. Wellesburne, Oct. 20. 

The British Floris?s Gazette and British Fruitery.— Sir, I am a con- 
stant reader of your interesting repository, and I am glad to find it has 
such extensive circulation. But I am like some others, I want it more in my 
own way. Iam a florist, and those articles which relate to the culture of 
flowers are the most interesting to me. A similar hint has been given you 
by one of your Suffolk friends, who requested you to publish the accounts 
of fruit and flower shows. You replied, let the Societies be at the expense 
of printing, and the accounts shall be annexed to the Gardener’s Magazine 
Now, Sir, this does not appear to us an eligible plan. But we propose 
that you find paper and printing, and we will find materials and money. 

AA 4 


360 Provincial Societies. 


We have, for some years past, had a Florist’s Gazette, published at Man- 
chester. But. being published in the country, we found it difficult to 
obtain it. We want one published in town, entitled The British Florist’s 
Gazette. Let one portion of it bé& allotted to new flowers going out, and 
other interesting particulars. If you were to issue proposals for such a 
work in your Magazine, and request the Florists’ Societies to contribute to 
it, post paid, you would have plenty of materials, which you might easily 
arrange for the press. Let it be published on the 1st of September, or Ist 
of October ; and, we think, where you sell one Gardener’s Magazine, you 
would sell four British Florists Gazettes. But we are aware this would 
satisfy only one half of the non-contents; to please the other half you 
must publish a similar work, entitled The British Fruitery. We have no 
doubt of their having a very extensive circulation. Your country friends 
will feel obliged if you will give the subject your serious consideration. — 
Floristicus. November 29. 

We have no objection whatever to publish a British Florist’s Gazette, 
and The British Fruitery, once a year; say on the Ist of October, though 
we very much doubt their paying for paper and print. Why are those 
which were published at Manchester discontinued ? However, as so much 
has been said to us on this subject, we hereby invite all Flower and Fruit 
Societies to send us, post paid, plainly written and correctly spelt accounts 
of their transactions, and what they would wish published, together with a 
notice of the number of copies they will take of one or both works, and we 
shall at any rate run the risk of a commencement on the Ist of October 
next. — Cond. ; 

Distribution of Premiums.—Sir, Permit me to draw your attention to 
some points in the practice of Provincial Horticultural Societies, which I, 
in common with a number of my brethren who are practical men, think 
require reformation. _ 

Much has been said respecting the laborious and responsible situation 
of gardeners, compared with that of some other servants in a gentleman’s 
family ; but what adds greatly to the pain, and, I may say, often constitutes 
the degradation, of the gardener, is the practice of many of their employers, 
who are members of these societies, who receive the prizes that are in 
reality gained by their gardeners. You have very truly stated (Gard. Mag., 
vol. i. p. 238.) that there is not a more effectual way than this for a gentle- — 
man to keep down the spirit of his gardener, and I am now suffering this 
degradation. The intention of these societies is good, but their manage- 
ment bad. - Are they not supported by gardeners to a considerable extent, 
and does not the practical man pay subscription as well as his master ? 
More than this, I can aver that nine times out of ten he buys, at his own 
expense, the plant that produces the flower or fruit for which his master 
claims the prize. Such treatment, Sir, has been my lot; and I feel that it 
is not to be endured, that those who have had the care, anxiety, and toil 
have not the reward also. I admit it may be argued that every servant’s 
exertions are the property of his master; but permit me to ask such of your 
readers as argue in that strain, whether they can reconcile to their own 
minds, the taking of a reward for an action which they never. performed, 
or for a degree or kind of merit which they do not possess? Iam sure 
there are many of my brother gardeners who feel on this subject in the 
same way as your obedient servant. — A Complaining Gardener. August 8. 

We can very well sympathise with this correspondent, who, if he were 
as good a writer as he is a gardener, would probably render some of the sort 
of masters to which he alludes a little more attentive to the feelings of 
those who are under them. We have already expressed our ideas on the 
subject. (Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 237.) 


Calls at Suburban Gardens. 361 


Art. V. Covent Garden Market. 


Tue supply of culinary vegetables and hardy fruits continues to be more 
than usually abundant. Excellent white broccoli brings from 6d. to 3s. 6d. 
per bunch. Onions from 1s. 6d. to 2s. per bushel. The very best onions 
that can be purchased do not bring more than 2s. 6d. per bushel, while the 
best kidney potatoes bring 4s.; and the best Scotch, sent up from Leith, 
3s. per bushel. There have been large importations of Newtown Pippins, 
some in excellent condition, and some nearly rotten in the barrels; the 
price of the best 12s. per bushel. Best Nonpareils and Golden Pippins 15s. 
per bushel. Good Reineites, and other kitchen apples, 5s. 6d. to 7s. per 
bushel. Chaumontelle pears, 9s. to 18s. per bushel. Colmars, and other 
choice sorts, 10s. to 20s. per half sieve. Quinces sell at from 1s. 6d. to 2s. 
per bushel. Medlars have been very scarce this season. Dutch grapes, of 
the Frankenthal, cr Hamburgh variety, have been sent over in such quan- 
tities every week during the autumn, as to-have materially lowered the 
profit of the market-gardeners. There are still some in the market of very 
good quality, at 3s. per lb. Pine-apples have beew very abundant ‘and 
reasonable, and there are now more than can be sold of inferior and small 
pines, which are offered at 3s. per lb. — J. G. December 8. 


Art. VI. Calls at Suburban Gardens. 


THE Villa of Joseph Wilson, Esq., on Clapham Common. — The house is 
large and commodious ; the grounds consist of a few acres chiefly in grass, 
but with a small kitchen-garden and shrubbery, the latter more selectly 
planted than usual; and chiefly, as we were informed, by Messrs. Ball and 
Brookes, of Ball’s Pond nursery. Though only finished about four years, 
the evergreen and American shrubs have thriven astonishingly. Zigdstrum 
lucidum deserves to be mentioned as an evergreen shrub formerly kept in 
the green-house, but now found to beas hardy as arbutus or laurustinus, 
It has fine, broad, ovate, pointed, shining, deep green leaves, and large 
racemes of white flowers, which, as the trees grow older, will no doubt be 
succeeded by berries. There is agood collection of shrubs in the American 
ground; abundance of Magnolia grandiflora, inits different varieties ; several 
of M. conspicua and tripétala, and handsome plants of 'Thomsonidna and 
glaica: but the grand feature of this place is a conservatory lately erected. 
It is a parallelogram about 50 ft. long, 20 ft. wide, and 20 ft. high. There 
is upright glass to the height of 12 ft. on three sides ; the remainder is like 
a wall. The roof is a vault composed of two segments, so as to raise 
it rather higher than a semicircle, in order to throw off 196 
the water from the centre: but, at the same time, 
these curves are so united, as to form at a distance 
what appears to a general observer but a semicircle; 
and, to a more correct eye, a section similar to that of 
the broad end of an egg, or what botanists would call 
ovate. (fig. 126.) The floor is paved, and the whole 
is heated by steam-pipes concealed beneath the pave- 
ment. The only thing we could not approve of in 
the architecture of this house, was a row of props 
( fig. 127.) to the arched roof, running along its centre. 


OE 
Via 
CREE 
Hea 


362 Calls at Suburban Gardens. 


y 


or stability; and the effect in the interior of the house is as bad as can well 

be conceiv- 127 

stage which 

is connected 

would be | ~—7{ ' 

greatly im- Y 

a very neat plant stove of the usual construction, most substantially and 

elegantly executed, and furnished with a select collection of plants, a 
The Villa of John Allnut, Esq., is situated on the opposite side of the 

common. It struck us asa confused ill-kept place; but the gardener, Mr. 

trees ; and the soil they were in was chiefly yellow loam, with a little dung 

and peat. They are preserved through the winter in vineries. 

applauded the substantial and neat manner in which every thing was 

executed, apparently without limitation of expense. A good deal of stained _ 

serpentine manner that is seldom to be seen, except in town gardens of 

the lowest class. The clumps and patches which accompanied it on the 

the highest keeping ; and the worms had recently been destroyed by thou- 

sands, under the direction of Mr. M‘Dougal. 

straw, a display of neatness on the part of the grooms not very frequently 

to be met with. We were much gratified by this, and similar traits of 
Messrs. Rollison’s Nursery at Tooting is celebrated for the culture of 

heaths ; the plants were just placed in the houses, and looked remarkably 


wr KTP a es a Pp 
ral NT) NC] 

with them, z 
AQ WN \\ 
Sorel AAD™BDWWbWWe 
small green-house adjoining, and a complete little work-shed ; the whole, 
Curtis, is noted for growing camellias. We saw some very good pine plants, 
A small Villa near Tooting. — We called here and found that the 
glass was employed in both the front and ends of the green-house, which, in 
open side, were not harmonised with it, or so formed as to give an apparent 
Nothing could be more complete than the stable-yard at this place. The 
neatness, and by the kindness and condescension of the master in showing 
green and healthy, and between fifty and sixty sorts were in flower. They 


Any support given to an arch but the abutments is at least superfluous. 
ed. Were TTT MTT TT NG 
these props, HAT Hy iil 
| iL 
4 i WW 
entirely : | Las 
e 
SHA 
OOD?—R?>—K¥KRC 
There are 
including the furnaces, flues, and steam apparatus, very neatly executed, 
and a number of large camellias, very handsomely grown, and in fine 
gardens and grounds had been lately renovated, and a large green-house 
our opinion, is quite unsuitable to that description of building. A gravel 
reason for the different turns of the walk; but the plants in these dug 
stable and coach-house were kept as clean as parlours. As a finish to the 
us every thing himself. The interior of the house was suitable to the 
are small, and in small pots, and placed on stages very near the glass, where 


There could be no occasion for any such Suphor here, in point of strength 
and alow 

swept away, | . ; 

this house Ib es 

and kept in the highest order by Mr. Gunner the gardener. 

foliage. ‘They were placed in the open air, completely shaded by high 
erected. We could not approve of the taste displayed, but highly 
walk round five or six acres of grass was conducted in that formal 
patches were of select sorts, and planted in peat earth. The whole was in 
litter of each’ particular horse, it was surrounded by a border of plaited 
exterior. 

they enjoy abundance of light and air. The nursery here is not extensive, 


Calls at Suburban Gardens. 363 


but is kept in very neat order : there is an abundant supply of water, which 
rises some feet above the surface, and which was obtained by boring to the 
chalky stratum. The ground for raising fruit trees and shrubs being at a 
distance, we did not go to see it. 

Cobbett’s Nursery, Kensington, Feb. 7.— Some of our readers having re- 
quested us to give an account of this garden, we called there with a gen- 
tleman who was about to purchase some trees. We found the veteran 
writer sitting in his garden-house, by a wood fire made in one of his 
cast-iron American stoves, a table beside him covered with newspapers, 
and a few books behind ona shelf. The garden contains about four acres 
of deep sandy loam, admirably adapted for raising seedling trees, and 
almost the whole of it is so occupied. The sorts are as follow; the par- 
ticulars respecting them are taken from the Register for December 1825:— 
. Locust, Robinia Psetid-Acacia. Recommended to be grown for pins 
for ship-building, and for hop-poles; also for fuel and hedges. The dur- 
ation of locust is said to surpass that: of all other timber; it grows faster 
than the ash, and while a pole of the latter tree lasts only three years, a 
locust pole will last twenty or thirty. At Earl’s Court, near Kensington, a 
plantation was made, fifteen years ago, of locusts, Scotch pines, sycamores, ’ 
limes, Spanish chestnuts, beeches, ashes, and oaks, and measured in October 
last. It was found that the locust grew faster than any other tree, in the 
proportion of 27 to 22; and faster than the average of these trees in the 
proportion of 27 to 18. It is acknowledged, however, that the locust is 
not a tree to thrive to a great age ; and two old specimens in Mr. Cobbett’s 
garden, in the most favourable soil and situation, are striking proofs that 
it is not a tree to produce a great bulk of timber. 

White Oak, Quércus alba. Recommended as producing tough, durable, 
and light timber, fit for implements of husbandry, and coach-making. In 
Loddiges’ collection, this oak appears a more tender tree than the common 
species. — Black Oak, Quércus nigra, or tinctoria.. Valuable on account 
of its bark, which makes the fine yellow dye called quercitron; grows fast, 
and on poor soil.— Black Walnut, Jaglans nigra. Used as knees in ship- 
building in America. — Hickory Nut, Jaglans squamosa. Wood hard and. 
tough, but not durable. — Persimon, Diospyros virginiana. Wood so. ex- 
cellent for poles and shafts, that Michaux calls it the American lance-wood. 
—White Ash, Fraxinus americana. Grows faster, and is better.timber 
than the common ash. The fastness of its growth will be doubted by 
most British gardeners who have had it in their shrubberies. — Tuhp Tree, 
Liriodéndron twlipifera.. A tree of very quick growth, and the timber is 

_as useful as the deal, and more ornamental. 

Occidental Plane, Platanus occidentalis. ‘“ This is to a certainty the 
largest tree in the world, and the wood far from being of no value.” 
“‘ There ought to be a forest, or, at least, a thousand or two of acres of 
these trees in England, to provide blocks for the navy. How is it that 
this tree, and also the tulip tree, both of which push up so in America, 
are seldom worth looking at here? Because there they come from seed, 
and here they come from layers. That is the cause, and the sole cause. 
A layer is not a tree, but the branch of a tree; and it always will be a 
branch, and grow like a branch, with a broad head, and a constant incli- 
nation. to make big limbs. It will be crooked, and every way misshapen. 
It never will get to the height or the size of the seedling tree; and will 
not, at the end of ten years from the start, be a quarter part of the size of 
the seedling.” 

Honey Locust, Gleditschia triacanthos. Not so fast-growing as the 
other locust, but its timber is “as good in nature.” “ With a little pains 
the plants would make the most beautiful hedge in the world, armed with 
thorns that even a fox-hunter would not dare to face.” 


364 Calls at Suburban Gardens. 


Catalpa syringifolia, grows to the height of 40 feet in America; but 
not above seven or eight in England, because they are “ raised from layers 
and not from seed.” Next to the Magnolia grandiflora, it is “ unquestion- 
ably the finest and most magnificent flowering tree that we know any 
thing about.” It will grow almost in any soil, and “ produce you a gate- 
post to last two or three lifetimes.” The wood is of a deep yellow, and, 
“ probably, as durable as that of the locust.” 

Hibiscus Althe‘a-frutex grows 20 feet high in America, “where such a 
thing as a layer was never heard of;” here it “makes no figure,” and 
< seldom blows.” (!) “A hedge of these althzeas is one of the most beautiful 
things I ever saw in my life.” They grow fast, and will make a hedge in 
a short time. : 

- Besides the above forest trees and shrubs, Mr. Cobbett propagates 38 
sorts of American apples, which he severally describes and recommends. 
The Newtown Pippin, Rhode Island Greening, and Fall Pippin, he says, 
are decidedly the best in point of flavour and keeping; while the Mam- 
moth is the largest of all the apples in America, weighs from one to two 
pounds, and is chiefly used for pies and sauce. There are three sizes of these 
trees, which are sold at 1s. 5d., 2s., and 5s. a tree; those only one year 
grafted are 9d. each. __Keens’ Seedling Strawberry is the only remaining 
article sold by Mr. Cobbett, for which he charges 2s. 6d. per hundred. 

The prices of these trees are considerably higher than those of the nur- 
serymen. The insinuation that althzas, catalpas, and tulip trees are 
generally raised by layers, &c., is incorrect. 

The Platanus is generally raised by lavers, but not always; there are 
trees in England from sixty to eighty feet high; for instance, at Syon 
House, and in Chelsea garden. Mr. Cobbett has adopted an opinion, which 
Mr. Knight has been principally instrumental in propagating; viz. that, in 
general, layers and cuttings will not produce plants equally strong with 
those raised from seeds. With every respect for the opinion of so eminent 
a physiologist as Mr. Knight, we feel obliged to differ from him on this sub- 
ject. We cannot here go into details, but we may shortly state that we 
believe as perfect and durable a plant may be obtained from a bud as from a 
seed. That plants equal to seedlings are not always so obtained is owing to 
the want of proper treatment. Strike a cutting of an oak, another of a 
Jarch, and raise an oak and a larch from seed, under the same circumstances 
of soil and situation ; after seven years the seedlings will be handsome young 
trees, and the cuttings, perhaps, dwarf stunted bushes ; but cut the oak over 
by the surface, and bend down to the ground all the branches of the larch, 
and you will find strong shoots proceed from the root of both; leave only 
one shoot to each stool or root, and you will soon have as handsome, vigor- 
ous, and durable trees, as if they had been raised from seed. We do not 
deny, however, that the same object is attained sooner by raising from seed. 
Such is our opinion, founded on observation and analogy; but we should 
like to know the ideas cf others of more experience than ourselves on the 
subject; for example, of Mr. Gorrie, of Messrs. Bishop, Beattie, and Mit- 
chell (p. 506), Mr. Sinclair, “ A Denbighshire Gardener,” and especially 
Mr. R. of A., (p. 551.) whom we suspect to be of Mr. Cobbett’s opinion. 

Tree Seeds and Grafts. Mr. Cobbett imports these from America in 
casks, packed with sand; the locust and catalpa seeds in their pods. We 
measured a pod of the latter near 18 inches long, containing perfectly 
fresh seeds. 

Such is the nursery of Mr. Cobbett, and the articles grown in it; and 
while all the same sorts of trees, with the exception of a few varieties of 
the apples, are growing old in the nurseries, from being but little asked for, 
Mr. Cobbett cannot raise a sufficiency of seedlings to supply the demand. 


Hints jor Experiments. 365 


Art. VII. Hints for Experiments. 


HeaTine Pits and Frames by Gordon’s Kettle.—In Gordon’s kettle 
( fig. 128.), which is heated by a lamp, or by a jet of gas, the heat accu- 
mulates between the outer coat and the inner 
vessel, which contains the water, and by this 
means boils the water in half the time re- 
quired by a common kettle. Might not steam 
be generated in this way at an easy rate, and 
made to heat a cistern of water, even though 
at some distance from it; or, might not a 
system of circulating hot water in a hot-bed 
or pit be contrived with a Gordon kettle and 
a set of tin pipes ? Or, in a green-house where 
there are no flues, might not a lamp, or a jet || 
of gas, be kept burning night and day, under | 
a cistern of water, which would give out 
its heat in cold nights in proportion to the degree of cold, and would 
never become too hot in the daytime? I know that heating frames and 
green-houses by lamps has been tried both in France and England, with- 
out ever having come much into use; but I think if a mass of heat, if I 
may so speak, were accumulated in a body of water, either circulating in 
pipes, or at rest in a covered cistern, the effect would be quite different. — 
Zig-zag. September 50. 1827. 

Heating Water by burning Gas. — One advantage of heating hot-houses 
by hot water is, that they can hardly ever be overheated. The heat of the 
water need never exceed 150°, and, supposing the temperature of the air 
of a hot-house in which a cistern heated to that extent is placed to be 80° 
or 90°, water parts with its heat so slowly that the air of the house would 
not be greatly increased in temperature for a long time, especially with 
the ordinary extent of glass roof. It follows, as we think, that where the 
artificial heat of a hot-house is to be communicated to its atmosphere by 
means of a large reservoir of water, it would not signify much whether that 
water were heated during the day or durimg the night, or whether the 
waste, however irregular it might be, was made up by an irregular supply, 
or a supply perfectly constant and regular. Admitting the latter plan to 
be agood one, then, in all situations where gas pipes are laid for the supply 
of lamps, a jet of gas might be burned night and day under or within the 
reservoir, and thus furnaces and flues entirely dispensed with. Perhaps 
the way of procuring most heat from a jet of gas would be to cause the 
smoke and heat of the flame to ascend through the water in a spiral tube 
( fig. 129. p. 366), similar to the worm pipe used in distilling. If cisterns, 
so heated, were found to give out their heat too rapidly in the daytime, 
they might be cased with boards, with a vacuity of 6 in. between the cistern 
and the boards. This case and vacuity would prevent the escape of the 
heat when it was not wanted, and the boards might be removed or opened 
in different degrees (they might open and close like Venetian window- 
blinds) in the evenings, according to the estimated coldness of the ap- 
proaching night. In the case of green-houses, where a very moderate 
supply of heat is wanted, burning a jet of gas in the night would, during the 
greater part of the winter, be found sufficient ; and, limiting the burning 
to the same period, might probably be found adequate for pits and frames 
of every description; possibly, also, for such plant stoves and forcing- 
houses, for succession crops, as may be covered with straw mats, in the 


366 Hints for Experiments. 


manner already strongly recommended. (p. 167.) Many small green-houses 
and conservatories about London, which are at present without flues or 
fire-places, and, consequently, without good and healthy plants, might be 
most economically and elegantly heated in this way. If the ponds and 
tanks formed in kitchen-gardens for the supply of the watering-pot in the 
warm season, were of suitable shapes and sizes to be covered with frames 
and sashes, the water might be heated by immersed lamps or jets of burning 
gas; a floor of planks, flag-stones, or slates, on iron rafters, or of cast-iron 
plates, might be formed over the water, on which to place the pots of 
plants to be preserved, or the mould in which to grow cucumbers or 
melons, or to force fruits or culinary vegetables. With the heat supplied 
in this way, and retained by ample coverings of thatch or reeds, much 
might be done. It is easy to conceive.the idea of a whole system of pits, 
and what are called hot-beds, built of brickwork, and heated by tanks of 
water, instead of beds of dung. The lower parts of the walls of the pit, 
and the bottom, or pavement, would require to be set in Roman cement, 
and the mould for the plants must be supported by an arch thrown across 
the pit, or on flag-stones supported on piers, or by iron rafters. The water 
might be heated either by the perpetual burning of jets of gas immersed in 
it, or communicating with it by small Gordon, or spiral-tubed kettles, outside 
the pit; or by a boiler on the common circulating principle (p. 186.); or 
by steam from a boiler placed at any distance, somewhat in Karl Powis’s 
manner. (p.376.) If pits might be heated in this way from below, hot- 
houses of any size might be heated from stone or iron cisterns of water, 
not occupying greater space than the present smoke flues, and, certainly, 
nec could be easier than to substitute water for tan in growing pine- 
apples. 

One of the cheapest modes of heating a Hot-house by Hot Water, at least 
so it appears to us in the present. state of our knowledge on this subject, 
would be to employ earthen pipes 129 
(p. 375.), slate cisterns, formed in 
Mr, Atkinson’s manner (Gard. Mag., 
vol. ii, p. 431.), and a tin or copper 
spiral kettle of 9 or 10 in. in diameter, 
and 20 or 24in, high. This kettle 
( fig. 129.) should be connected with 
the earthen pipes (aa) in the hot- 
house by two small pipes (6 6) carried 
across the wall of the house, from the 
top and bottom of the spiral kettle (c). 
Instead of a jet of gas (d), or when the 
gas could not be obtained, or in addi- 
tion to the gas in very cold weather, 
acommon lamp, with a floating tin YN 
burner, or any other common lamp, i! 
might be used as a substitute, or to 


increase the heat. pT 

_ Lf water could be heated by the con- Yj uaa , | 

centration of the sun’s rays, and we ey id as 

see no difficulty in the thing but the expense, it would be an easy matter, 
not only to heat hot-houses, but to raise the temperature of an entire gar- 
den, or even of an entire country. Sink wells or cisterns, at regular dis- 
tances, all over a garden or country, and place over each a concentrating 
apparatus (p. 101.), so contrived as to operate upon a ball. ( Jig- 150. a) 
This ball being connected with a pipe (6), the change of temperature of 
the water in the ball would cause the water to ascend in successive portions, 


Hints for Hxperimenys 367 


and thus the pipe would act like 130 /, 
a syphon, and draw up the water 
from the bottom of the well or EM \SS 
tank, to be heated in the ball, LE 
and return it to the top of the ee 
well or tank, there to give out A 
its heat to the earth above. If, i 42 
instead of a series of wells in a } LL] hi 
garden, we imagine the whole ay Me 
=| =| === Yi 
fi 
: : / 
i 


garden to be supported over 
one large tank of water, it is 
easy to conceive that the tem- 
perature of the surface soil 
would be so much increased as 
not to be frozen even in winter, 
and consequently the climate of 
the garden, both in winter and 
summer, would be very much 
improved as far as heat is con- ‘ 

cerned. A lake or a canal, in a gentleman’s park, so heated by nu- 
merous concentrators, would certainly have some effect on the adjoining 
soil and trees. If all the lakes, ponds, canals, wells, and tanks in England 
were,so heated, the climate of the country would surely undergo some 
change; and the next idea that occurs is, what would be the effect on the 
climate of the whole world, supposing it were practicable for all its seas, 
rivers, and lakes to be covered with solar concentrators ? — It must not be 
forgotten that nature, in operating upon the temperature of the world, next 
to the sun, employs chiefly the heat and cold of the water of the ocean. 
The same sort of circulation takes place between the seas of cold countries 
and the seas of hot countries which takes place in the upper and lower 
pipes of a hot-house heated in the Elcot manner; and islands in cold cli- 
mates, such as Britain, are kept warmer than they otherwise would be, by 
being surrounded by water which has been heated in great part in ‘@ warmer 
region, in the same way as hot-houses. are kept warm in the night by water 
which has been heated in the day. 

Water in many cases might be heated by pipes communicating with a kitchen 
Jire. — We have elsewhere suggested that baths, which might serve also as 
reservoirs for heating rooms or as substitutes for stoves, might be heated in 
this way in any part of a dwelling-house, and either above or below the 
level of the fire. No plan equally effectual could be devised for trans- 
ferring part of the heat generated by the kitchen fire to other parts of the 
house, or to adjoining apartments, green-houses, shops, or manufactories. 
An artist could not heat his apartments by an equally unobjectionable 
mode. In this way, water at a great distance from the fire might even 
be boiled; and hence this improvement might be rendered available in 
cooking, brewing, and washing, but especially in the drying room ofa 
laundry. : f 

Water might be heated by the gas lamps of shops, by simply having a 
double funnel over the flame (fig. 131.), the vacuity filled with water, and 
communicating with the reservoir to be heated by a going and returning 
pipe. No house in London having a shop, need require any fire-places or 
chimneys but for the purposes of cookery; and, indeed, were gas only a 
little cheaper, fires in large cities might be dispensed with altogether. It 
would be easy to render gas an elegant substitute for a fire in a drawing- 
room; while the heat, as it passed up the chimney, might be communicated 

to pipes connected with reservoirs of water for heating other parts of the 


368 Retrospective Criticism. 


house. Most kinds of cookery might also be effected by gas ; and what 
could not, would only require a little coke or charcoal. ‘The gas lights of 
churches and other public buildings might, in many cases, communicate nee 
as well as light, simply by having a double spiral funnel (fig. 151.) over the 
flame, and a going tube (a), a returning tube (8), 131 

and a pressure or balance tube (¢ c), communi- 
cating with a reservoir; which reservoir might 
either be under the floor or in any part of the 
house between the floor and the roof. But per- 
haps the best way of heating churches would be 
_ to have two or three solar concentrators on the 
roof, communicating with an immense cistern 
under the floor. There would at least be enough 
of sunshine during the week to produce heat for 
Sundays. The immersion tanks of Baptist cha- 
pels might be heated in this way, the water of 
public and private baths, and the mode is applic- 
able to a variety of other cases. The only ques- 
tion is, as to the expense of the concentrators, 
and the machinery requisite to keep them conti- 
nually at the proper angle to the sun’s rays. We 
wish some person of leisure, ingenuity, and a 
little spare money, would communicate with Mr. 
Gauen on this subject, and determine a number of 
points by experiment. To heat by concentrators i 
a vault of water under a pit, either for protecting plants during winter, 


or for early forcing, would be one of the easiest and most desirable objects 
to begin with. 


Art. VIII. Retrospective Criticism. 


PostTIoN of Cottages—Sir, Observing the liberal candour with which you 
correct your opinions, if your correspondents adduce reasons which appear 
to you better than your own, I venture to offer some remarks on passages 
in your Magazine for July, 1827. In p. 478. (of Vol. III.) on Cottage Eco- 
nomy, you require that a north and south line should form a diagonal to 
the square of the outer walls. Now, admitting your position that both the 
sun and wind striking obliquely will fall on the walls with moderated force, 
I totally deny your conclusions. You seem to assume that the wind will 
always blow from the four cardinal points; but, in this climate at least, the 
fact is otherwise; and when it does blow from either of the four cardinal 
points, the wind is less, and therefore its direct impulse is desirable. For 
instance, a south wind is always a soft and pleasant wind, so, for the most 
part, the west wind; the north wind is dry, wholesome, and, though cold, 
not injurious or unpleasant... In praise of the east wind, indeed, I can only 
say, that it is dry, and not very prevalent. Now, if these winds come with 
their full force direct on the walls of a house, not much harm is done, and 
much pleasure and benefit result ; but, if you change each front 45 degrees, 
you have indeed one front direct to receive the delicious south-easter, the 
opener of flowers, and morning’s whet to trouts and salmons ; but, against 
that, you have the next front fully exposed to the south-wester, bringing 
five sixths of all the rain that falls, and ninety-nine hundredths of all the 
driving rains, to wet through all the walls that art can construct, at least in 


Retrospective Criticism. 369 


maritime situations and for twenty miles inland. You have, indeed, in that 
position, the delightful and bracing, but rare north-wester, known more by 
description than byactual feeling; thenyou have the horrid north-easter, pre- 
vailing more than a third, probably near half the year, penetrating walls, and 
doors, and windows, and raiment, crucifying every fruit tree and ornamental 
shrub on your wall exposed to it. In short, you select a predominant dose 
of the worst winds, and a very short allowance of the best. And, as to the 
sun, the meridian sun which falls on a south front, being so high before it 
directly impinges on the wall, shines very obliquely downwards, and never 
heats a south front much in summer ; and in winter, when the sun is lower, 
you get the most sun on that front: and the more you can then have, so 
much the better. The direct east and west fronts are less heated in the 
morning and evening of a summer’s day, than the south-east and south-west 
fronts ; and the northern aspect is much preferable in summer to the north- 
western, which, in that season, is rendered very oppressive by the setting 
sun. Now, with fronts to the four cardinal points, the two worst winds 
and most prevalent in duration, viz. the north-easter and south-wester, fall 
on the angles of the building, and thereby waste their force and their cold, 
and their wet, in an oblique attack. 

It is stated by Mr. Felton (Vol. II. p. 481.), that Mr. Hollis ordered his 
body to be buried in one of his fields at Carscomb, in Devonshire. The 
fact is not correctly stated. Mr. Hollis’s estate was at Corscombe, not 
Carscomb, in Dorsetshire; and the circumstance ought to be deeply fixed 
in the memory of every man of taste, by the recollection of the beautiful 
and enthusiastic allusion to the fact, contained in the Rev. Wm. Crowe’s 
poem of Lewesdon Hill, p. 21. : 


* Fain would I view thee, Corscombe, fain would view 
The ground where Hollis lies; his choice retreat, 
Where, from the busy world withdrawn, he lived 
To generous virtue, and the holy love 
Of liberty a consecrated Spirit ; 

And left his ashes there: still honouring 

Thy fields with title given of patriot names, 

But more with his untitled sepulchre. 

‘That envious ridge conceals thee from my sight, 
Which, passing o’er thy place north-east, looks on 
To Sherburne’s ancient towers.” 


Now, Devonshire is all far to the west. 

Conium is not derived from «ovis (cdnis), dust, which is a wholly different 
word, and of a different root, being spelled with an omicron, or short 6; 
whereas kewveoy (cOneion), cicuta, is spelled with a long 6, or omega, and is 
derived, according to the etymologist quoted by Robert Stephens, in his 
Thesaurus, 4. 1331., from an old verb cavew (cdned), signifying to turn round 
like a top, which again is derived from xevos (condos), a cone; and the 
name was applied, because the effect of drinking the juice of hemlock, which 
was an ordinary mode of executing criminals at Athens, was to induce 
giddiness and reeling, and a turning round of the person affected by it. The 
learned Scapula concurs in this derivation; see Kwyvos. 

Your very valuable communication on limekilns, from Mr. Menteath, 
(Vol. Il. p. 599.) does not convey any satisfactory information to me 
in one very essential point, which he no doubt omitted from not ex- 
pecting that any of his readers would be so stupid and ignorant as I am. 
{ want to learn how the heat is communicated from the fuel-chamber to 
the lime, and how the fuel is replaced ; viz. whether there is an iron grate 
or bars over the fuel-chamber, through which the flame and heat pass up- 
wards to the lime, or whether the burning lime sustains itself in an arched 


Vou. I1I.— No. 11. BB 


370 Retrospective Criticisn 


eavity, sufficiently to suffer fuel to be inserted under it through the doors 
of the fuel-chamber, without the lime falling in ; for I presume that the fuet 
must be renewed before an entire kiln is drawn, and that the fuel is not put 
in at the top in layers, alternating with the limestone, as in the old way. 
And is there a grate, or bars, below the fuel, as in a common furnace 
And what are the dimensions of the several bars and grates? I am,, Sir, &c- 
— Causidicus. Aug. 15.1827. 

If our correspondent has observed the process of burning lime in any 
common limekiln, the simplest mode of answering his queries will be to 
state that, in all that relates to burning, the process is the same as In com- 
mon limekilns. The superiority of Mr. Menteath’s kiln consists in its form, 
and in the use of a protecting cover. The position and proportionate dimen- 
sions of the iron bars are the same as in common limekilns.— Cond. 

Etymology of Botanic Names.—I beg leave to differ from you in print- 
ing the etymology of names that are from the Greek in English, and not 
im Greek letters. {I think they would answer the end in view much better 
if they were in Greek characters; it would be far more conducive to @ 
general knowledge of botanical glossology, and a greater stimulus to the 
student. By printing the derivations all in one type, no person, except the 
learned, can know whether they are from the Latin er Greek. I will take 
Hyoscyamus for example, which you say is from Ayos a hog, and kyamos @ 
bean; but who ean tell whether they are Latin or Greek words, for the 
Latin words are in the same type ; had it been printed ts a hog, and kvapos 
a bean, your readers would have known it was from the Greek, and to 
those who are not acquainted with the Greek language, it would be an 
inducement to learn it, as I can testify; for by looking over some generic 
names derived from the Greek, in Greek characters, | made them all out 
without the help of a Greek alphabet. Since that time 1 have applied 
myself to the study of the Greek language, and am proud to say that there 
are very few generic names derived from the Greek but what I know. If 
other young gardeners had the same advantages, they might perhaps do the 
same. I am Sir, a wellwisher to your Magazine. — J. P. August 17. 

There is net one composed generie name in five hundred that is not 
from the Greek, nor one composed specific name in five hundred that is 
not from the Latin; therefore we do not think our correspondent’s objec- 
tions to our mode, or his view of the advantages of the mode he proposes, 
of sufficient force to mduee us to alter our pian, more especially as it is the 
plan we have followed in our Hortus Brigannicus: farther, the adoption 
of Greek letters, either in that work. or this, would add materially to the 
expense of printing, and consequently to the price charged for the quantity 
of material given to the public. — Cond. 

Gardeners and Labourers. — ¥ must bespeak your patience, Sir, while E 
have a few words with yourself. You must understand, Sir, that f am not 
one of these tame domestic animals, who are so much in request nowa- 
days ; but I am one of those who, seeing any infringement upon the jus¢ 
prerogative er true dignity of my fellow-men or my own, dare demand 
justice ; and (pardon me, Sir) you have somewhat degraded usin your note 
accompanying “ A Nurseryman’s letter.” (Vol. IL. p. 268.) You have set us 
below the level of common country labourers. On this matter I mast quarrel 
with you, Sir, for it does not occur to me, that any argument whatever, founded 
on sound reason, can show how the workmanship of a common labourer 
ean surpass that of a professed gardener, in such jobs as gardenets are gene- 
rally set to in the nurseries. However, Sir, I trust you are candid enough to: 
show better cause for, or to correct, the statement. As a proof, you refer to 
Mr, Donald’s nursery, where, you say, “ the work is performed by commor 
country labourers ;” but are they not regular nursery labourers [certainly 
egular nursery labourers would have been a better term], who,from the time: 


Retrospective Criticism. 371 


they have been there, ought to be able to finish a piece of work both in 
neatness and expedition equal with a professed gardener? And does not 
Mr. Donald employ more men proportionably, than many nurserymen do ? 
[No.] I imagine he does, which best accounts for the superior condition of 
his nursery. — Sensitivus. Aug. 5. 

Calceolaria integrif lia and corymbosa. —Sir, May I request the favour of 
your correcting a slight mistake in the last number of your Magazine, p-69 
in quoting the contents of No. 150. of Edwards’s Botanical Register, wherein 
Calceolairia integrifélia var. angustifolia is described as adapted for a wall, 
&c., you refer to page 187. of the 2d volume of your own Magazine, where 
a very distinct variety, Calceolaria corymbosa, is figured and described. 
This correction is so far important, that the experiment of turning out or 
training with the latter plant would fail, it being, as you describe in Vol. II., 
scarcely more than biennial, and a low herbaceous plant, whereas C. inte- 
grifolia will, with management, reach the height of 3 or 4 ft. with a suffru- 
tescent stem, though far less brilliant in the colour of its fowers, and inferior 
also in their size. . 

I do not think it is generally known that Passifiora palmata will stand 
our winters without any kind of protection except that afforded by a wall 
with a southern aspect, against which I have one that has survived two 
winters, and is now, after many successive weeks, in full bloom, and 
forming a very great ornament to a trelliswork in front of my house. — 
A constant and approving Reader. Oct. 20. 

Catalogue of the Fruits in the Horticultural Society’s Garden.—I send you 

herewith a few observations, if you think them worthy of notice in your 
excellent Magazine, on The Catalogue of Fruits cultivated in the Garden 
of the Horticultural Society of London, at Chiswick. 
- ‘The advertisement says, “he fruits were actually cultivated in the garden 
of the Society in the spring of 1826, and the list comprehends nearly the 
whole of those which have ever appeared in print in foreign or English 
lists of authority,’ that is, they have at this time nearly all the fruits cu:ti- 
vated in England that “ ever had a name,” from the time of Parkinson, our 
first best authority, in 1629, to the year 1826, and also all those of France, 
from Merlet in 1667, to Noisette in 1826. 

If this is meant literally, it affords no proof of discrimination or judgment 
in the compilation, for a great portion of the old fruits inserted m the cata- 
logue have now no existence, or at least cannot be accurately ascertained. 

It would have been desirable had the compiler of the catalogue given a 

reference to the authorities whence the names were taken, or from whom 
the fruits were received, that we might ascertain if it is the old fruits that 
are actually meant, or new fruits with old names, or the same plants under 
different. names ; as it is, we are left quite in the dark, whence and where 
they derive their existence. 
_ There is said to be 5825 varieties enumerated, and 1000 more existing 
of doubtful authority. Now, Sir, I should wish to ask for what purpose is 
this assemblage of names collected together ? Js it intended that the Hor- 
ticultural Society are to have the sole merit of settling the synonyms ? 
Are the labours-of Switzer, Miller, Hill, Hanbury, Forsyth, and others, 
which have been directed te this subject, to be disregarded ? 

A large reduction of the 5825, it is said, will doubtless be effected, as the 
different classes of fruits shall be successively submitted to careful examin- 
ation. Why this has been done already, as far. as regards many of the 
old fruits, by the authors above-mentioned ; but such has been the vanity 
of multiplying names, that in many instances, where the old fruits have had 
two names, these have been separated and enumerated as distinct sorts :— 
but “ It has been judged more proper to suffer the same kind to stand un- 
der different names, than with an insufficient degree of information to risk 

BB 2 


372 Retrospective Criticism. 


adding to the existing confusion of the nomenclature, by a precipitate 
reference of really distinet varieties to one common name.” Surely the 
compiler is adding to the “ existing confusion,” by inserting old and syno- 
nymous names that were long ago decided, at the time when the fruits 
were in actual cultivation, and that by men well conversant in practical 
knowledge. I select the following instances of fruits repeated over again 
under different names, and also of the inaccuracy of the synonyms, as they 
stand in the catalogue : — 

The Apricots are divided into British and French. The Moor Park is said 
to be the same as the Abricot Péche, and inserted twice under both names ; 
but the Abricot Péche of Duhamel is not the Moor Park, and it is doubtful 
if the Abricot de Nancy, or Wurtemburg, be the same. The Maculé of the 
French is a variety of the Abricot commun, and not the Blotched-leaved 
Turkey, a name unknown to them. (See Duhamel.) The Royal and Royale 
are the same; the Algiers. and the Royal Orange are the same; so are the 
Brown and Red Masculine. 

Of Cherries there is is a very confused list ; the 111 English sorts may be 
reduced to about 50 or less. ‘Ihe Bigarreau and the Graffion are different 
cherries. Why were not all the Duke Cherries, Hearts, &c., arranged 
together in the same way as the Geans ? Where is it found that Trades- 
cant’s cherry is a Heart Cherry? Parkinson, who first described it, says 
no such thing. Among the French cherries are many Lnglish ones; the 
Montmorency 4 Gros Fruit, Gros Gobet, and Gobet & Courte Queue, 
are three distinct cherries. (See Noisette.) Vifteen German cherries are 
added, or rather fifteen cherries with German names, among them Fraser’s 
Tartarian Cherry. Baron Truchsess, of Bettenberg, in Franconia, collected 
all the cherries he could procure from Germany, Irance, England, &c., but 
he could make out only 76 varieties ; and, as Calvel observes, “ It would be 
necessary to have a jury of savans to fix the nomenclature.” 

Of Figs 75 are enumerated. Here, again, we find both English and French 
repeated under different names. The Blue Fig is the Violette of the French ; 
the Marseilles, or Pocock Fig, is not the Marseilles of the French ; it scarcely 
ripens in Provence, except on the sea coast, and certainly will not do 
- so here. The Lambeth Fig is probably the Small White Fig, or Versailles 
Wig; the Black Provence is the Violette de Bourdeaux; the White Malta 
is the Angélique ; and the Large White, the Ligue Blanche. 

The Peaches have been well done to hand by Lindley ; but here there are 
transfers of names, which only tend to add to the existing confusion. ‘The 
Belle de Vitry, or Admirable ‘Tardive of Duhamel, has been long considered 
in England as the Late Admirable, but it appears that some nurserymen sel! 
the Royale for the Late Admirable, therefore the latter name is to take the 
lead, and the Royale, one of the oldest peaches, to be found in a synonym. 
The White Avant and the Red Avant are the White and Brown Nutmeg, 
(Miller.) The Vanguard is the Noblesse of Switzer. What is meant by No.128. 
Pavie? TheFrench are now agreed to make the name Bellegarde a synonym 
to the Galande, to prevent confusion; but here both the names are preserved 
distinct. Alberge Jaune and Rosanna require elucidation, as neither French 
nor Hnglish are agreed about them. Among the Nectarines, we find the com- 
mon Hlruge and the Klruge of Miller; they are both the same, for the Elruge, 
as described by Miller, does not exist, and must haye been an error in copy- 
ing for the press (a similar one occurs in his Lis/e Peach); for there appears 
to have been no other serrated-leaved nectarine at that time but the New- 
ington. (See Langley’s figure, and Switzer.) Miller made no alteration in 
his descriptions atter he first published in 1752. 

Of eultwated Plums 276 are enumerated. D’Avoine and Jaune Hative are 
the same; Azure Hative is supposed the same as the Blue Gage. The Ches- 
ton Plum is the Blue Matchless; several of the old Damas and Damasls 


Retrospective Criticism. 373 


Plums are lost, as is the Black Perdrigon, and many others herein named. 
Monsieur Tardif is the Prune Suisse ; Reine Claude, the Green Gage, &c.&c. 

Of Apples 1205 (and 400 more exist in the garden) are named here; the 
number seems to have alarmed the compiler, for he says, “ from uncertainty 
of the correctness of the names, and from other causes of doubl respecting 
them, it has not been thought advisable’ to insert them in the present ca- 
talogue.”’ It would have been happy had these “ doubts” prevailed more 
frequently. Most of our cider apples are omitted, but a great many French 
ones are inserted on the authority of M. Hervey, whose catalogue of the 
Luxemburg collection seems to haye been referred to throughout all this 
‘catalogue, aad which has been the cause of many errors in the synonyms. 
Subsequent French writers, Calvel, Loiseleur, Noisette, &c., have corrected 
these. 

It would take up too much of your useful publication to go over 
the common list. “A considerable reduction of the names is to be 
anticipated, whenever a general comparison of the varieties can be effected.” 
Surely it would have been better to have inserted only those sorts which 
have been already proved, leaving the new sarts to be inserted from 
time to time as they could be ascertained, and their goodness estimated ; 
as the list now stands, no gentleman can make a proper selection wherewith 
to furnish his garden, and the nurseryman finds it difficult to know what 
sorts to recominend. 

Of Pears 622 are enumerated. Here again the same varieties occur under 
different names, and the synonyms are very incorrect. Ambrette d’Eté, 
Crapudine, Rude Epée are the same as the Grise Bonne; Archidue d’Eté 
is the Ognonet, and not the Amiré Joannet; Vermillon d’Eté is not 
the Bellissime d’Automne; Hampden’s and Summer Bergamot are con- 
sidered the same by the old writers. What is meant by the Common Ber- 
gamot? Why is Beurrée spelt with two ee’s? No French author writes it so. 
Bonchrétien Ture is not Bonchrétien at all, and the name has been properly 
altered to Turque by Loiseleur. Carlisle, according to Miller, is the same 
as the Doyenné; Donville, Poire de Provence, and Bequesne are three dis- 
tinct pears. Doyenné d’Hiver is the Bergamotte de la Pentecote. Under - 
H’pine d’Eté occur as synonyms Fendante, Musquée, separately, whereas 
it is one sort. Guogil and Poire a Gobert are different pears; Monsieur 
Jean Blane and Jean Doré are the same pears. Now all these synonyms 
might have been corrected, had attention been paid to Calvel, the Nouveau 
Duhamel, or Noisette, and not to Mr. Hervey alone. 

Of Grapes 159-sorts. “ Some reduction of names has been made, as will be 
seen in the following list, by referring supposed varieties to their synonyms.” 
The Alicant has for its synonyms Black Spanish and Teinturier : this is 
so far correct, for the Yeinturier is called by the French Alicante and 
Noir @ Espagne, but it is so bad a grape, that in Burgundy, where it occurs 
in their vineyards, they cannot even make wine of it, and it is solcly used 
for colouring their good wines, hence the name. The large Black Spanish, 
Gros Noir @Espagne, or Raisin d@’ Alicante, called also Ramonat, and 
_ Negrier, isa much better grape, brought to the dessert, and is the grape 
that produces port wine. ‘The true Alicant Grape which Miller had is a 
red grape, and not, I believe, at present in this country, nor is it known in 
France. The Black Cluster is not the Auvernat; the latter is the true 
Black Burgundy, Maurillon or Pineau de Burgogne. Chassellas Musque is 
the Le Cour grape of Miller. The Back Constantia is the same as the 
Muscat Violet, or Blue Frontignac. ‘The true Black Hamburgh is the Ren- 
raw, and should have its proper name; it was brought over by Mr. Warner 
at the same time with the other Hamburgh grape, and was cultivated also 
by Furbér, at Kensington, in 1724. ‘The list of grapes is extremely imper- 
fect, and seems to be the most carelessly drawn up in the whole catalogue. 

BB 3 


374 Answers to Queries, and Queries. 


Do the Horticultural Society mean to exclude from their collection the 
Common White Muscadine, for the name does not occur, and this grape is, 
without exception, the most useful, and best out-of-door grape in this 
country. It was cultivated in Parkinson’s time, and probably much earlier. 
Under the Royal Muscadine it would appear to be included, for here are 
three grapes designated by one name. ‘The Chasselas, Chasselas Doré of 
Duhamel, and the Chasselas de Fontainebleau are the White Muscadine. 
The Chasselas de Bas sur Aube is the Royal Muscadine, and the D’Arbois 
‘of Sir W. Temple, &c., is a Sweetwater grape, and has been called the 
French Sweetwater. 

It is to be hoped that, in the future editions of this catalogue, some little 
more attention will be paid in the compilation. The Horticultural Society 
have a considerable library at hand to consult on every occasion where 
there is doubt, and which will add greatly to their own personal observ- 
ations. Asa body, they can do more in settling the synonyms of fruits 
than any individual whatever, however industrious or indefatigable, or 
whatever may be his practical knowledge ; besides, they have opportunities 
of comparing and adjusting differences which no single person can possibly 
have at his command. 

I have just seen the first number of the Pomological Magazine, edited by 
«two gentlemen intimately connected with the Horticultural Society,” 
which tends to confirm my opinion as above; for at No. 2. is figured the 
Royal Apricot, or Abricot Royale, Bon Jard. and Noisette ; now, if this was 
known to be the case, why was it inserted in the catalogue No. 20. Royal, 
and No. 50. Royale? Again, No. 3. Sugar-loaf Pippin, Dolgoi Squoznoi ; 
both names appear in catalogue, Nos. 254. and 1078.—M. H. Nov. 20. 1827. 

On blacking Garden Walls. (Gard. Mag. vol. ii. p. 421.) —Coal tar is used 
for this purpose; I have used it myself for the purpose of blacking a wooden 
fence, and had the idea that it would operate against small vermin and the 
green fly, but in this I was greatly disappointed ; indeed, I do not like coal 
tar for any purpose ; its only recommendation is its cheapness. I think the 
following composition is much better: — 

Take Stockholm tar one gallon, boiled linseed oil (drying oil) one quart, 
a sufficient quantity of mineral black in powder ; put all together into an 
iron pot, and simmer it for some time over a small fire; use it while hot in 
the same manner as paint: the gloss will soon go off.—W. Green, jun. 
Stepney, Aug. 51. 1827. 

Preventive against Birds taking Seeds out of the Ground. (Gard. Mag. 
vol. ii. p. 465.) — If some thin light-coloured twine or white worsted be - 
stretched tight across the beds in which seeds are sown, at the distance of 
about 2 in. from the surface of the beds, and about 2 or 3 ft. from string 
to string, small birds will not touch either seeds or the young plants of 
onions, against which sparrows seem to have a particular spite, as they pull 
them up by hundreds, and leave them lying upon the surface of the beds, 
but do not appear to eat them. ‘This is the most effectual method I have 
ever seen employed, and it is a very old one.—ZJd. 

Shrubs most capable of resisting the Effects of the Atmosphere of London. 
(Vol. II. p. 484.)— Add the tree box and the Auezba japonica: the common 
laurel will scarcely live with me.— Id. 


Art. IX. Answers to Queries, and Queries. 


Heatine by Water in earthen Pipes.—If Mr. Wells of Bickley will, 
through your valuable miscellany, communicate if by “ earthenware pipes” 
are meant the common pipes made of brick earth, or pipes of some superior 


Answers to Querics, and Queries. 378 


rnaterial ; and if the latter, where it is to be obtained, and its relative price, 
as compared with the iron pipes furnished by Messrs. Bailey; and, in either 
case, the diameter of the pipes used by him; also, if a reservoir be necessary 3 
he will oblige many of your readers, besides your hamble servant — J. MZ. 
Brighton, Nov. 16. 1827. 

The pipes at Bickley are common earthen pipes. We have seen pipes, 
which we should think would answer extremely well in many cases, at the 
wharf of Messrs. Grieve, Grellier, and Morgan, Waterloo Bridge. They 
are made in Wales, of fire clay, in lengths of 2 ft, each, and of the following 
diameters and prices:—6in.in diameter, 3s. 6d. per pipe; 4in., 2s. 6d.; 
2in., 1s. 9d. They are used for conveying water, and, when joined by Roman 
cement, are said to be perfectly watertight. They are greatly superior to 
the pipes at Bickley, from the circumstance of being so easily joined to- 
gether, and from admitting of a joint perfectly watertight At the ordinary 
thickness of cast-iron pipes, they will cost more than double the prices 
above given for earthen pipes. — Cond. 

Heating by hot Air and hot Water. — Sir, As economy in horticultural 
pursuits must promote its interests, every thing that may contribute therete 
no doubt must be acceptable to your readers. I have referred to your 
Gardener's Magazine and alse to the Encyclopedia of Gardening, but can 
find nothing concerning the transmission of hot air from an adjoining build- 
ing te a green-house or conservatory. As hot air is now pretty generally 
made use cf in mansions, I see no reason why a portion of it may not 
be borrowed, sufficient to supply a green-house containing vines on the 
rafters, but which are not to be forced till the geraniums, &c., are re- 
moved for the summer, the vines being a secondary object. May not hot 
air be introduced into a green-house connected to the kitchen range, a wali 
only intervening, as the fire in the kitchen is seldom extinguished, and, if at 
all, but for a very short time. Iam convinced many persons would have 
green-houses, &c., in the part of the country I live in, but for the expense 
of fuel, which is exorbitantly dear. If any of your correspondents would 
give a paper on the subject, with plans of valves and pipes, and with the 
ereatest extent of distance that heated air may be conveyed and continued 
at the temperature of 50° to 60°, when the external atmosphere is at 32°, 
he will oblige, no doubt, many of your readers, and none more than your 
humble servant,— A Subscriber. Aug. 17. 1827. 

Having had some experience in making attempts to heat hot-houses by 
hot air, we have been reduced to the opinion, that it is the worst of all 
modes of heating, on account of its liability to produce extremes; the 
difficulty of putting air in motion, and its dryness, If heat is to be con- 
veyed from a kitchen fire to a green-house, or to any part of a dwelling- 
house, a going and returning pipe of water is by far the best mode. There 
can be no doubt that something is to be done in this way; and one thing 
which we should like to see adopted in every house is the heating of a 
bath. A bath might be so contrived, in the alcove of an ornamental green- 
house, as to serve both as a bath and a stove. A revolution in the mode 
of heating, both in domestic and hot-house economy, is in commencement, 
in consequence of the discovery of the hot-water system. Messrs. W. & D. 
Bailey, of Holborn, are entering fully into it, and we would recommend 
all our readers who are interested in the subject to consult them.— Cond. 

Earl Powis’s Mode of heating by hot Water.—Can you give me any 
account of this mode of heating, of which I have heard a good deal at 
different times among some of His Lordship’s friends? Is it the same as 
that of Elcot? or, if it is different, which is the best ?—R. W. Nov. 20. 

Earl Powis’s mode of heating is described by Mr. Manwaring in Gill's 
Technological Repository for November 1827, p. 261., and consists in sur - 
rounding a small steam-pipe, of not more than 2in. in diameter, ‘vith 

BB 4 


376 Answers to Queries, and Queries. 


another pipe about 6in. in diameter, filled with water. The water and 
steam-pipes surround the house to be heated in the usual manner: they 
are made gradually to descend from the place where the steam enters to 
where it escapes, in order that the condensed water produced from the 
steam may be conveyed back again to supply the boiler. In order to obviate 
the mischief that might arise from the expansion of the water to be heated, 
and the consequent generation of steam in the water pipes, a cylindrical 
vessel, placed on end, and open at top, is connected with the pipes, and in 
this the water may rise and fall according to the degree of contraction or 
expansion to which it may be subjected. It will be evident to whoever 

- compares this plan with the simple and beautiful system in present use 
(p. 186.), that it is a much more expensive and uncertain mode of effecting 
the same object. It has, however, the historical merit of forming one step 
in the progress of this improved mode of heating.— Cond. 

Cotonnier, Virginian Swallow Wort, Asclépias syriaca.—Sir, Allow me to 
enquire, through the medium of your Magazine, whether the plant called 
Cotonnier, cultivated in Lower Canada, has yet been introduced to this 
country, and, if it has not, to suggest the propriety,of its being imported ; 
for, from the following description, taken from a book of travels, it seems 
likely to be a useful and ornamental addition to our culinary vegetables : — 

“ The cotton plant, Cotonnier, comes up in May, like asparagus, and is 
dressed and eaten as such in Canada.’ Its flowers resemble those of lilac. 
In the month of August, a dew appears on its leaves and flowers, which, 
-shaken off into basins, about sunrise, and boiled down, yields a good sugar. 
The stem contains a lactescent liquor; the seed-pods are the shape of an 
ego, three er four inches long, and contain a fine white silky substance.” 

[The plant alluded to is the Asclépias syriaca, which has been in the 
country since the time of Parkinson, in 1629. It is common in collections, 
is of the easiest culture, but neither are the tops used as asparagus, nor the 
down of the pods for stuffing pillows or beds, as in Virginia. ] 

May I also ask where plants of the Norway Cloud Berry, Rubus Chame- 
morus, so highly spoken of by Dr. Clarke and others for its refreshing and 
salubrious fruit, is to be obtained ?— A Constant Reader. 

Not about London, but any nurseryman at Edinburgh, or other towns 
to the north, may be written to, to send up turves containing the plant, 
which turves are conveniently got from its native habitats in October or 
March. In this way we have received it; but we doubt its living for any 
length of time so near London as Bayswater. — Cond. 

Double Yellow Rose, in answer to R. N.—This rose flowers better on an 
east or west, or even a north wall, than on one exposed to the south. It 
should never be pruned farther than cutting out the dead roots or irregular 
shoots, and thinning out the blossom buds. It has flowered under such 
treatment for several years on the south and west ends of a small hot-house 
in the garden at Pain’s Hill, and in the garden at Cobham, in Kent; it flowers 
as freely, budded on the Aosa fndica, as #. odorata does on the common 
blush rose, which Mr. Calvert of Rouen has found to be the best stock for 
this variety. —C. Sept. 26. 

Bursting the Double Yellow Rose, in reply to R. N. (p. 119.) —I believe 
it is very rare for it to open perfectly. I have one against a west wall, and 
this year I think there must have been nearly, if not quite, a hundred roses 
on it, but not many that opened fully: those that did were beautiful. I 
have been told that chamomile plants should be planted at the root of the 
rose: this I shall try. I have observed that there are often many flies 
hovering about the tree. Whether they eat the rose, I cannot make out ; 
but I shall watch next year, and pay particular attention; and should I 
make any favourable or useful observations, R. N. shall hear again. The 
yellow rose will bud on the China rose, and has flowered after this process. 


Answers to Queries, and Queries. 377 


As‘the yellow rose is very shy in throwing out suckers, and is rather a 
scarce plant, it would be well to try and increase it. The chamomile 
plan is worthy attention.— Z. Nov. 5. 1827. 

Bursting the Double Yellow Rose, in reply to R. N. (p. 119.) —I am in- 
clined to think that aspect or soil has more effect in blooming a yellow rose 
than any thing else. I have never been able to grow this beautiful shrub 
myself, on account of an almost constant smoke in my garden; but I heard 
an experienced man once remark, that in a friend’s garden, where a yellow 
rose did not bloom, he recommended it to be removed from a south to a 
north aspect, when it throve and bloomed well. I have seen one that 
bloomed very perfectly and freely on a east or north-east wall; and I have 
been told that im some villages east of Newmarket, on a very dry chalky 
soil, perfect flowers are produced in great abundance. — Suffolciensis. 
December 1. 

Transportation of living Orchidee. — Sir, At page 70. of your last Num- 
ber you enquire respecting the transportation of living Orchideew. So 
far back as the year 1816, I brought with me, on my return from Sicily, 
between two and three hundred roots of species indigenous to that island ; 
nearly the whole of which flowered the succeeding year in the green-house 
of the Liverpool botanic garden, and in those of several of my friends. 
Many of these roots were sent to the Chelsea garden; but whether they 
succeeded or not, I never heard. The method I adopted was as follows :— 
The plants were taken up in full flower, at which period the tuber or bulb 
for the following year had not begun to throw out its roots: the earth was 
carefully removed from the tubers, and the plant laid in a shady, cool, dry 
room for about three weeks, when they were lightly packed with hay in a 
perforated deal box. The species thus introduced were as follows ; — 


O’rchis undulatifolia Bivona.* Serapias lingua. 

O’rchis pyramidalis ? Auct. Serapias cordigera. 

O’rchis bipunctata Bivona. O’phrys lutea. Willd. 

O’rchis variegata. O’phrys spéculum. Bivona. - 
O’rchis longicornis Desf. FV. Ati. O’phrys tenthredinifera. Bivona. 
O’rchis purpurea Biv. sp. Nov. ined. O'phrys ciliata. Bivona. 

O’rchis longibracteata Bivona. O’phrys pallida. Rafinesque. 


The whole of these flowered the first or second year, together with three 
or four other species, apparently new, and of which I possess drawings. 
Several of these identical plants have been figured in the Botanical Register, 
but under names and-synonyms very different from those assigned to them 
by their first describer, my accurate friend, the Baron Bivona, whose great 
knowledge of Sicilian Orchideze I have had frequent occasions to admire. 

Having thus replied to your enquiry, allow me to request you will give 
circulation to one from myself. What is the native country of the 
Ldthyrus grandiflorus of the Botanical Register, and by whom was that 
beautiful plant introduced? My reason for making this enquiry is as 
follows :— During a botanical tour in Sicily, about the year 1810 or 1812, 
my attention was arrested by seeing, for the first time, this imposing 
species in full flower, spreading over a thicket on the side of Mount 
Scuderi, the present name of the highest ridge of the Nebrodes or Moun- 
tains of Neptune; a limestone chain, which runs from Taorminum to 
Messina. Qn this single spot it grew luxuriantly : but the extraordinary 
thing is, that although I remained eight years in Sicily, during which time ~ 
_ L explored nearly every part of the island, 1 never saw this plant in any 
other situation. The last year of my residence, I made an autumnal 


* Sicularum Plantarum Centuria, 1, 2., Panormi, 1806-8, small thin 4to, 
may be had of Mr. Bohn. The outline figures are excellent. 


378 Answers to Queries, and Queries 


journey, for the sole purpose of gathering its seeds, of which a pint was 
procured, and sent in small parcels to all the botanical cultivators in this 
country I then knew. I described it in a Sicilian periodical journal, under 
the name it now bears; but it appeared in the Botanical Register with this 
as a new name, and something is said, I believe, (for I have not the book,) 
about its coming from Smyrna. Is this locality authentic? It will be 
interesting to know this on more accounts than one. It is related that 
Tournefort discovered a particular plant on a certain spot in one of the 
Greek islands, but which never occurred to him again during all his travels. 
Dr. Sibthorp, who explored the same countries, found the plant on the 
identical rock indicated by Tournefort, but never again. We can scarcely 
believe that such fixed limits of existence can actually be circumscribed 
in nature; yet, until it is disproved by facts, we are bound to believe it; 
and the theory would be very much strengthened if what is yet known of 
LAathyrus grandiflorus placed this plant as an additional example. — William 
Swainson. Tittenhanger Green, near St. Albans, Herts, Oct. 20. 1827. 

If your Iris correspondent will favour me with his address, as we culti- 
vate the same plants, it may lead to mutual benefit. — Zd. 

Garden, Hot-houses, and Pits. —I am about to make a new walled gar- 
den of very nearly two acres within the walls. The situation is a bank 
gently sloping from west to east; the shape an oblong square; the soil at 
the upper end (west) peaty, but well drained, and about 6 ft. deep ; at the 
lower end only 13 or 14 in. deep, with a hungry clay subsoil. ‘The whole, 
till last year, was woodland. What is the best method of bringing such 
soil into garden ground? [ wish also to know the best plan for pits to be 
heated by steam or het water, for raising pines or melons; and should be 
glad, if, through your Magazine, I could be furnished with a plan for them 
of sufficient size to enable me to raise from three to four hundred. pines 
in the year. What is the best aspect for the pits? and what would the 
probable expense amount to? The whole to be of thoroughly good and 
substantial work, and where labour and materials are expensive.— H. No- 
vember. 

To H. and other correspondents who are in immediate want of plans, 
or other practical assistance, we can strongly recommend our talented and 
experienced contributor, Mr. Main, of No. 6. Union Row, Queen’s Elm, 
Chelsea. Mr. Main has had great experience both in agriculture and gar- 
dening, and is well qualified both for designing plans of gardens, hot-houses,_ 
plantations, pleasure-grounds, &c., and directing their execution. — Cond. 

Scotch Pine.—It is said in Lambert’s Genus Pinus, ‘ that the Scotch pine 
will always flourish best when planted in earth where the turf has not been 
moved; from not attending to this, the tree often becomes defective and 
unhealthy.” Dees Mr. Lambert mean by this, that holing is better than 
trenching for the Scotch fir ; and does the same observation extend to the 
other species of pines and firs? —G. W. June 19. 1827. : 

Jollection of the Pine and Fir tribe. —Can you inform me in what gen- 
tleman’s gardens or plantations I may find the various sorts of fir trees and 
pines bearing cones at the best advantage? I want to make an arboretum 
of them from undoubted seed, and to observe the growth of the plants. A 
list would be valuable, and of the sorts in each garden.— Jd. [See the 
account of Dropmore, p. 257.] ek 

Bostrichus Pinipérdus, and Scélytus destréictor. — Have any attempts been 
made to destroy these insects on the elm by the use of glutinous mixtures 
on the trees? The latter insect I observe to be very embarrassed in its 
motions by any fluid, even by water: and if any cheap mixture could be 
found which would retain its dampness and tenacious property for some 
time in the open air, I think it probable that a few locks of wool dipped in 
it, and stuck by it to the trees, would entrap a large proportion of them, as 


— 5 = hd 


Answers to Queries, and Queries. 379 


they are much inclined to run on the trunks of the tree, particularly the 
males. Would any preparation of birdlime, or half drying oil, or turpentine, 
or of refuse of glue, or treacle, or gas liquor, answer this purpose ? — Jd. 

Mr. Oldaker’s Vines. — Mr. Oldaker, in enumerating the properties of 
his three favourite late grapes, which entitle them to consideration, says: 
ist, They grow very freely, which enables them to carry a great crop. — 
When they carry a great crop, is it not an inferior crop? Is it brought to 
such perfection as if not so great? Will the grapes keep longer when un- 
ripe than otherwise? 2dly, They ripen their wood early in the summer, 
which is greatly in their favour for producing fruit the next year.—Now, if 
they ripen their wood so early, how is the fruit retarded until the latter end 
of November, and even winter, before it is ripe? 3dly, The leaves remain 
green all the winter, and the vines continue in a growing state, which ena- 
bles them to bring their fruit to perfection through the autumn and winter. 
— Is it owing to the leaves being perfectly ripe, or the reverse, that the 
. leaves remain ? Instead of their growth being protracted through the win- 
ter, are they not like evergreens, retaining their foliage, although inactive ? 
If Mr. Oldaker’s vines keep growing and maturing their fruit all the winter, 
when are they laid to rest, pruned, and set a growing again, &c.? Mr, Old- 
aker’s vines seem to possess other peculiarities besides perfecting fruit on the 
lateral shoots of the same year ; perhaps he will be kind enough to throw 
some farther light on the subject. —A. R. March 12.1827. 

Winter Salading. — What is the best plan to have a constant supply of 
lettuce, endive, and parsley, throughout the winter. — Id. 

Slugs. —1 am troubled with slugs in my dwelling-house, (!) and should 
be glad to be informed how to get rid of them, and likewise upon what 
principle their movement depends. — Jd. 

Vines in the open Air. (Vol. I. p. 458.)— Mr. Pendergast, of Inistioge, in 
the county of Kilkenny, has succeeded in bringing to great perfection, m the 
open air, a particular sort of grape vine. {[ shall be greatly obliged if any 
of your correspondents will inform me of the name of the grape vine, and 
also give some information about the manner of cultivation and manage- 
ment of the vine, as I am engaged in making experiments on grape vines in 
the open air at the present time.— Wm. Green. Stepney, Feb. 1. 

A perennial Potato has been mentioned to me by a lady from London. 
Can you or any of your readers describe the plant? Yours, &c.— EH. D. 
Bristol, May 1. 

The Cannon Grape is said to be very large, both in the bunch and berries, 
do you know any thing of it? — E. M. Mather. Old Baseford, Feb. 12. 

Assistance in laying out a square, and a parallelogram, as flower-gardens, 
is wanted by Rusticus in Urbe. July. 

Mulberry Trees. — Sir, The publication of the views of the Silk Com- 
pany, in the year 1825, having strongly excited the interest of myself and 
some of my friends on a favourite subject of experiment, I am now induced 
to request the insertion of the following questions in your valuable Maga- 
zine, in the hopes of eliciting early information on that branch of the sub- 
ject which the Company’s edition of Dandolo’s work has left unnoticed ; 
the absence of a more general diffusion of practical information consti- 
tuting, I am convinced, a great impediment to the promotion of the highly 
desirable objects of the Company. 

ist. The names, and a particular description of the most approved 
varieties of the mulberry tree, for the cultivation of the silkworm. 2d. 
Where the best varieties may be procured, whether the Company have 
made any arrangements for facilitating the supply of trees to gentlemen 
desirous to make plantations, or if any of the public gardeners are pre- 
pared to supply the best. varieties in sufficient numbers to make a consider- 
able plantation the present winter. 35d. The method of cultivation, and 


380 Answers to Queries, and Queries. 


necessary care of the tree fo maturity; the title of any book containing 
practical information on this head; its cultivation in the climate of the 
northern half of England, if such is to be obtained, will be acceptable. 

Your future pages will be examined in the hopes of finding some useful 
practical information, sought for in the present instance, by some who have 
the opportunity to plant on an extensive scale.— J. 8S. S. Wales, Nov. 27. 

The Italian variety of the white mulberry, A/orus alba_var. italica, is 
acknowledged to be the best variety, and plants of it may be obtained at 
Loddiges, Hackney, and other nurseries. Any soil that will grow the com- 
mon whitethorn vigorously will grow the mulberry vigorously also; indeed, 
there is no particular soil or skill required to grow it, either as a tree,- or as 
a bush to be cut down every other year as in Italy. If the success of the 
silk manufacture depended merely on being able to produce mulberry leaves, 
silk might be produced as extensively in Kurope as flax; for the mulberry 
being a deciduous tree late of expanding its buds, and producing its shoots 
rapidly in the warm season, it thrives almost as well, and is as productive, 
as far as leaves are concerned, in Sweden and Russia as in France and Italy. 
— Cond. ; 

Breaking Tulips. —1 have many books on horticulture, and amongst 
them is Ze Dutch Gardener, or Complete Florist, by Henry van Oosten. It 
was translated into English more than one hundred years ago. The author 
treats largely on the most beautiful flowers, and is very communicative even 
to the vulgar, until he comes to the article of “ breaking tulips, and bring- 
ing them to perfection;” and, from his own account, he did intend being 
as explicit on this subject as he had been upon others ; but, after consulting 
Virgil and the learned Bacon, and receiving a hint from a “ divine genius,” 
he resolved to communicate this sublime mystery to none but “ knowing 
artists.’ To them the secret is revealed in the following mysterious lan- 
guage : — 

“ If you increase the strength of your mother by feeding her with the 
ashes of her bones and the substance of her father, then you will possess 
the land of promise, wherein udders of milk shall be, and rivers of wine, 
and other liquors of several colours shall flow across. Many rocks of gold 
shall be dispersed therein, and the ground shall be filled up with oysters, 
that shall discharge their red carmgsin on the ground, and bring their 
purple to light; and if you will follow the fashion, the milk of the udders 
shall be turned into liquor of saffron, which shall give you golden flowers.” 
(Dutch Gardener, p. 185.) 

Now, Sir, ever since you sent forth that learned book, the Encyclopedia 
of Gardening, we have been steadfast in our faith of your being a “ knowing 
artist.” We therefore humbly request you, or some of your “ right know- 
ing”? correspondents, to favour us with a literal version of this sublime 
communication of Maister van Oosten. We confess we are but novices 
in the arts of Flora, but we are very solicitous of farther instruction. I 
am, Sir, yours, with more than usual civilities, — Floristicus. Nov. 29. 1827. 

Iridee@ vere. — With what aspect, and in what soil, do the majority of 
the hardy Jridéz best succeed? Are there any species of true Iris found 
in southern Africa or in tropical America? I believe not.— W.S§. Oct. 29. 

Zo rot Weeds and Leaves. — What is the best process of converting gar- 
den refuse, as weeds, &c., into manure ? and what the best for turning dead 
leaves into a nutritive vegetable mould ? — Jd. 

Pears on Quince Stocks. — What is the reason why the following varieties 
of pears will not-take upon the pear-shaped quince, viz, |’Echasserie, 
Doyenné Gris, Muscat d’Allemande, Royale d@’Hiver, and Sylvange? We 
have already made many trials in every manner without success. They 
take and grow for a little time, and then die off. — VN. A. B. Bolwiller, on 
the Rhine, Nov. 3. 1827. 


Answers to Queries, and Queries. 381 


Preserving Ice above Ground.—I should feel obliged, if you, or any of 
your numerous correspondents, wou!d describe minutely the most simple 
and efficient mode ef preserving ice from the action of the external atmo- 
sphere, and what sort of building would be best adapted for situations where 
the natural flatness of the land prevents an excavation of more than three 
feet ?—W. G. W. Liverpool, Nov. 21. 1827. 

Dahlias.—Can you tell me why the name Georgina was not retained 
instead of dahlia, which I have heard pronounced daw-ly-a, da-ly-a, and 
dea-li-a? The last, I believe, is the general pronunciation, which I think 
infringes on another genus of plants, I suppose named after Mr. Dale. 
Which is the proper pronunciation? — Thomas Hawkins. The Haw, near 
Gloucester, March, 1827. 

Dahlias.— What is the proper time for planting dahlias, what soil suits 
them best, and may they not be propagated in the same way as potatoes 
are, I mean by dividing those roots which are furnished with eyes? [Cer- 
tainly.] Last season, by accident or otherwise, some of my roots of choice 
dahlias were separated from each other, and I wish to know whether it 
would be worth while to plant them ?—A Constant Reader. April 11. 
If the roots have buds they will grow; not otherwise.— Cond. . 

Embanking Land from the Sea.—In Menteath’s Forester’s Guide men- 
tion is made of a Mr. Lindsay’s scheme for recovering land from the sea, 
and thereby enlarging the territory and augmenting the resources of the 
kingdom. (p. 7.) Can you, or any of your recders, furnish me with any 
account of Mr. Lindsay’s scheme ?—W. G. Swansea, Oct. 1826. 

Rosa Bdnksia.—Z. would be glad of any information as to the treat- 
ment of the Banksian rose, so as to make it flower. It grows luxuriantly 
with him, but has only once produced a small bunch of blossoms. 

Mixing the Breeds of Potatoes.—I1 observed in Cobbett’s American Gar- 
dener an assertion respecting early potatoes, which appears to me to be 
rather an extraordinary one. He says, that if you have got the true kind 
of early potato, and wish to keep it pure, “ you must take care that no 
cther sort grow with it or near it, for potatoes of this kind mix the breed 
more readily than any thing else, though they have no sLoom!” Will you 
be kind enough to tell me, through the medium of your Magazine, whether 
this statement of Cobbett be really correct ? [Not correct. | 

With respect to the crossing of the breed of plants, I am of opinion that 
bees and other insects have less to do in this matter than is generally sup- 
posed. I think the wind is the chief cause, for I have frequently grown 
turnip seed quite pure within less than two hundred yards of cabbages and 
kale, in bloom at the same time as the turnips were ; but there were three 
hedges intervened betwixt the turnips and the other plants— A. Y. Sept. 
13. 1827. 

The insects that infest cucumber frames occasion great trouble to gar- 
deners. J, in common with many of your readers, would be glad to know 
the best method of destroying them.— F. Powell, gardener. New Court, 
near Hereford, Nov. 12. 1827. ; 

Grubs and Wire Worms trouble me much, and I am very desirous of 
knowing how to destroy them. I am now in the habit of losing from sixty 
to one hundred cabbage plants every night. Perhaps Agronome will be 
able to furnish us with a hint on this subject? —A Surrey Reader. Scpt. 
28. 1827. 

_ The best means of destroying Woodlice, which are very destructive in 
cucumber and mushroom beds? —Z. Nov. 5. 1827. 

Packing and preserving Seeds.— Permit me, through the medium of your 
valuable Magazine, to suggest to the Horticultural Society the propriety of 
instituting a series of experiments to ascertain the best method of packing 
seeds for warm countries. An immense advantage would accrue from a 


382 Answers to Queries, and Quertes. 


series of experiments properly conducted, and I am sure there is no subject 
that comes more within the objects of the Society than this, as the know- 
ledge that would be acquired would not only be useful in sending seeds 
from this country, but also in the case of those that may be sent home. We 
might thus have many new vegetables, which, with our present imperfect 
knowledge, we can never obtain. Neither would the Society’s labours in 
this way interfere with the efforts of private individuals in the introduction 
of new fruits and vegetables. — Semina. London, April 15. 1827. 

Gold and Silver Fish.—Something of their history and proper treatment 
is wanted, and whether the Squilla Aqua dulcis destroys the young fry, 
or what else is prejudicial to the increase of the fish.—C. Hale Jessop. 
Cheltenham, Sept. 1827. 

Lime as a Manure.—You have had much on the use and abuse of salt 
- in your Magazine; may I beg the favour of you, or some of your cor- 
respondents, to give a practical essay on the effects of lime as a manure. — 
UE nae Oot. VI U827, 

Medicinal Qualities of Garden Plants.—Sir, Would it not be an im- 
provement to your valuable Magazine, if you were occasionally to notice 
the medicinal qualities of some of our garden plants, &c. The leaves of 
the black currant, for instance, if dried in the manner of tea leaves, would 
make a pleasant beverage in the shape of an infusion or decoction, and prove 
very beneficial in cases of gravel, which is a complaint I think gardeners 
are much troubled with, probably from the effects of drinking hard beer, 
very common in the south-west of England. — C. #. W. Fazeley, Nov. 20. 

Disease of the Anemone.—On reading the culture of the anemone in 
the Encyclopedia of Gardening, I do not observe any account of a disease 
which the anemones in my little garden have suffered from this year.; The 
roots send up numerous strong leaves, higher than usual, and of an un- 
natural thickness in the stalk: the leaf itself is much curled, of a sickly 
green, and the under surface covered with minute tubercles. None of these 
plants have flowered. I think this is a disease purely vegetable, in other 
words, not produced by insects. May it not be the effect of old age? I 
should observe that the A. coronaria in its native climate generally grows 
in sandy tracts close to the sea. On the shores of Messina, in Sicily, 1 have 
met with it in great abundance.— A. B. Warwick, July, 1826. 

Preserving Apples.— Mr. Gibb (p. 9.) would render a service to a nu- 
merous class in this latitude if he would inform us, in your Magazine, what 
variety of apple it is that he finds to resist the effects of frost. — W. G. W. 
Liwerpool, Nov. 21. 

A Tree, the young branches of which drop water, in a manner almost ap- 
proaching to a shower, has been lately discovered in the interior of Brazil. 
(Times, Dec. 22.) Query, its scientific name 2?— R. S. 

Vines. — In the gardens of the Earl of Sefton at Stoke, about six miles 
from Windsor, are said to be remarkably fine specimens of young vines. 
Can any of your readers say if there is any thing particular in their treat- 
ment ?— 7. J. M. 

Scampston Elm.— Sylvanus would be glad to know if this variety of elm 
(mentioned in Encyc. of Agr., § 7023.) is to be procured in the northern nur- 
series, as he has not been able to find it in the west of England, and has 
written to London for it without suecess?—We should be glad if Mr. 
Falla, our friend Mr. Pontey of Huddersfield, or some other Newcastle or 
Yorkshire reader, would attend to this query. — Cond. 

Heating by hot Water.—In your useful Magazine (p. 186.) you give 
two plans for heating stoves by hot water. As I intend building one of 
that description, I shall be much obliged for some further particulars. I 
wish to have only one boiler, and should suppose that the pipes may be so 
laid into it that, by stopcocks, I might make each. partition of any heat I 


Biography. 383 


pleased. As I should like to have as complete a house as_ possible when I 
set about it, and as I make it a rule to employ the labourers and _trades- 
people in my immediate vicinage, I would willingly pay something for an 
elevation and complete working plan for such a house ; but, I think, you 
could not gratify your subscribers more than by having such engraved in 
one of your early numbers, with all the proper dimensions for different- 
sized houses clearly figured out on a large scale.— B. M.H. Dec. 14. 1827. 

Plans of Flower-gardens.—As one of your subscribers, you would 
much oblige me, and no doubt many others, by giving plans of flower-gar- 
dens or parterres, something in the style of fig. 75. p. 250., only less curved 
and cut out. I like the appearance of nursery-gardens, where flowers of 
sorts and colours are kept distinct and in masses. You, who visit so many 
gardens, must have seen a variety of parterres, and could readily draw them 
out, consulting always economy in execution, ease of access, and effect. 
Perhaps you would likewise number the borders or divisions, and specify 
what flowers would please both the sight and the smell, and how to manage 
the beds so that there might be a constant succession from spring till the 
close of autumn, which might readily be managed by forcing seeds or bulbs 
either in a hot-hed or forcing-house. — Id. 

We recommend our correspondent to communicate with Messrs. Bailey 
(p. 575.) or Mr. Main. (p. 378.) — Cond. 


Art. X. Biography. 


WittiaMm Sreecuty, gardener to His Grace the Duke of Portland, at 
Welbeck, in Nottinghamshire, was born at a village near Peterborough, in 
Northamptonshire, and was the son of a respectable farmer, who gave him 
a good education. He had a strong natural genius, and was remarkably 
industrious, employing all the leisure of his youth in drawing plans, de- 
lineating fruits and flowers, and engraving them on copper plates. He also 
had a taste for music, but he laid that aside at an early period of life. _ 

His unconquerable predilection for the profession of gardening led him 
to begin his studies early in the gardens at Milton Abbey, now Kar! Fitz- 
william’s; from whence he removed to the extensive grounds of Earl 
Carlisle, at Castle Howard, in Yorkshire. How long he studied at each of 
these places, and how long he was head-gardener to Sir William St. Quin- 
tin, before he was recommended to the Duke of Portland in 1767, is not 
exactly known. 

In 1771, through the kindness and liberality of his noble employer, he 
made a tour to view some of the principal gardens in Holland. Soon after 
this the large improved pine and grape stove was erected at Welbeck, from 
Mr. Speechly’s designs, and under his own immediate inspection. In 1779 
his Treatise on the Culture of the Pine-apple was published, which opened 
quite a new era in that department of horticulture, and laid the foundation 
for the improvements which have followed, in rapid succession, to the pre- 
sent time. The same may be said of his Treatise on the Culture of the 
Vine, which was published in the year 1789. The value to gardeners of 
these two books can only be estimated by a knowledge of the want of in- 
formation at that epoch on the subjects treated of. In 1796 he published 
a second edition of his T'’reatise on the Pine-apple. After this he was en- 
gaged on some papers on domestic economy, at the request of Sir John 
Sinclair, President of the Board of Agriculture, which were to have been 
published in the Transactions of that Honourable Board; but the pub- 
lication did not take plac€, and the papers were returned to him in 1800. 


384 Obituary. 


He then had began to write a General Treatise on Gardening, but the death 
of his younger son, who was established on an extensive farm at Wood- 
borough Hall, caused Mr. Speechly to leave Welbeck and go to that farm, 
where he continued some years. During his residence there, he had the 
misfortune to lose his elder son, who died at the extensive nursery grounds 
of Withers and Speechly at Newark-upon-Trent. 

Mr. Speechly’s intense genius had led him into a course of agricultural 
experiments, on which he wrote several essays, and obtained the appro-- 
bation and honorary medal of the Board of Agriculture. After this he gave 
up his farm, and retired to King’s Newton Hall, in the proximity of which 
the only surviving branch of his family then resided, and whose removal, 
first to London, and then to a villa in Oxfordshire, caused Mr. Speechly 
to remove to the same neighbourhood. He died at Great Milton on the 
1st of October, 1819, in the séth year of his age, surviving Mrs. Speechly 
above two years. 

During the retirement of Mr. Speechly, he digested his essays, and 
formed a small volume of Practical Hints in Domestic Rural Economy, a 
work of merit and usefulness. 

Mr. Speechly was not a systematic botanist, but, as a kitchen, fruit, and 
forcing gardener, he was exceeded by no man of his time. He was strictly 
honest and honourable, modest, unassuming, cheerful, frugal, of domestic 
habits, and, though a practical gardener, yet having the manners of a 
gentleman. 

It was his good fortune to be in the employ of a family who ever were, 
and still are, the most enlightened and liberal patrons of agriculture, gar- 
dening, and planting. By the extracts from the Sloanean Manuscripts in 
the British Museum, which are printed in the preface to the Hortus Kew- 
ensis, p. Xii., it appears that the extensive collection of plants at Kew 
originated in a great measure in a gift from an ancestor of the present 
Duke to the royal gardens at Hampton Court in 1690. 

It seems, by a letter and plan published in the second edition of the 
Treatise on the Pine-apple, that a regular correspondence subsisted between 
Mr. Speechly and his favourite pupil, Mr. Joseph Thompson, then gardener 
to the late Lord John Cavendish, in Northamptonshire. When Mr. Speechly 
left Welbeck in 1801, he recommended Mr. Thompson as his successor ; 
and the present state of the extensive forcing-houses, the botanical arrange- 
ments, and the general improved state of Welbeck grounds, shows that 
Mr. Speechly’s confidence in his successor was by no means misplaced. — 
H. A. S. August, 1826. 


SER SE ED 


Art. XI. Obztuary. 


Diep, at Mount Pleasance, near Dumfries, on the 22d of August, Mr. 
W. Hood, nurseryman, in the 65th year of his age. The deceased was one 
of those unobtrusive characters who require to be known, and that inti- 
mately, before their moral qualities can be duly appreciated. But his worth 
was sterling, notwithstanding; his feelings warm, affectionate, and friendly; 
his charity and inoffensiveness alike proverbial ; and, without saying more, 
his character may be summed up in the following expression, used and 
‘responded to at his numerously attended and respectable funeral: Mr. 
Hood, I am certain, never, to his knowledge, wronged a man of a penny, or 
spoke an evil word of a single human being. (Dumfries Courier.) 


cereale 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
MARCH, 1828. 


PART I. 
ORIGINAL CORRESPONDENCE. 


Art.]. Some Account of the Dutch Manner of Forcing, as 
practised in the Kitchen-garden at Hylands, near Chelms- 
Jord, the Seat of P. C. Labouchere, Esq. F.H.S. From 
Notes made there on November 7. 1827. 


‘Vue park and the house at Hylands have been greatly 
improved, within the last few years, by the present spirited 
and wealthy occupier; but the peculiar interest of this place 
to a horticulturist, arises from the display of the Dutch mode 
of forcing in the kitchen-garden. This department is con- 
ducted under the direction of Mr. Francis Nieman, a gardener 
brought over from Haarlem by Mr. Labouchere, for that 
purpose, in 1824. Mr. Nieman does not meddle with the 
theory of gardening, and does not at all approve of writing 
books on his art; but we owe it to him to say, that he showed 
us every thing which we desired to see, and answered every 
question we put to him with the greatest patience. He is a 
most successful practical gardener, wholly absorbed in, and 
devoted to, his business, and assiduously attentive to order and 
neatness, even in the most obscure parts of his forcing-ground 
and working-sheds. 

The flower-garden -and pleasure-ground department at 
Hylands is under the direction of Mr. John Smith, a well- 
informed young man, who understands his business. . Every 
thing under his care is in the best order. 

With the exception of the pine-apple, most of the fruits 
and kitchen crops of British gardens are cultivated by Mr. 
Nieman. The mode in which the vine and peach are forced 


Vor in Now 2. cc 


386 Dutch Manner of £orcing, 


in pits and low houses in Holland, has been very well de- 
scribed by Mr. Lindegaard (Hort. Trans.; Encyc. of Gard., 
§ 2657. 2665. and 2666.; and Gard. Mag., vol. i.p.168.); but 
the mode in which cabbage lettuce is brought to the highest 
perfection during the winter and spring months has not, as far 
as we know, been described in any publication. Something of 
the same kind, we understand, was practised in the garden of 
the late Duke of Portland, at Bulstrode, by Mr. Rangecroft, 
who grew cabbage lettuces in frames, on warm dung, all the 
winter, and had them of a large size; but no details of his 
practice have been published. 

The leading features of the Dutch mode of forcing are, the 
substitution of dung heat for fire heat, the use of pits and 
frames instead of higher structures, of leaf mould instead — 
of loamy soil, and of reeds and mats for coverings. ‘There 
can be no question of the superior safety of dung heat to that 
from smoke-flues, or even steam; though, where dung cannot 
be had in sufficient quantity, a very near approach to that safe, 
steady, and mild mode of heating will be found in the recently 
invented hot water system. Pits are cheaper in the first erection, 
and heated at less expense than large structures. Leaf 
mould, being in great part oxygenated carbon, which is known 
‘to absorb both water and gases, is not so apt to generate 
damp as loam, and is therefore greatly to be preferred for 
winter forcing. The mode of covering by reeds or thatch, 
one of our correspondents, of great skill and experience, has 
already strongly recommended. (p. 167.) 

As minor features may be mentioned, a peculiarity in the 
construction of hot-bed frames and sashes, and the use of 
frames covered with oiled paper, as screens to guard against 
the vapour of rank dung, and protect from violent heat. The 
hot-bed frames are 9 ft. 6 in. long, and 6 ft. 3 in. wide: each 
frame has two sashes; those intended for lettuces are divided 
into 30 squares, and those for other crops into 42 squares. 
The top and bottom rails and side styles are of wood, but 
the glass is not glazed into bars, as in British hot-bed frames, 
but into stout leaden lap, in the manner of old cottage win- 
dows, with four iron rods inside, to which 
the frame of lead lap is fastened, the size of 
the panes being 10in. by 11 in. for lettuces, i 
and 10 in. by 93 in. for other purposes. (jie. 
132.) More light is admitted through these 
sashes than through sashes with wooden bars, 

a great advantage in the dark days of winter, 
and it is easy to shade in days of bright 


as practised at Hylands. 387 


sunshine. The frame, or box, is of equal depth at the back, 
front, and sides, viz. about 18 in.: along the back is a rebate 
cut out of the solid plank (fg. 133. a); and in front, in the 
centre of each light, is a stop of iron (6) to 
retain the sash in its place, when air is 
given behind by inserting the wedge in 
common use between the top rail and 
the ledge (a), or when the sash is raised 
high, to admit of watering or otherwise 
working among the plants, by means of a 
notched prop. (jig. 134.) The use of the ledge rising behind 
154 the rebate is, when air is given, to prevent the wind from 
forcing the external air into the frame. ‘The frame and 
| sashes are made to slope to the sun, by sloping the dung- 
| bed. When, at any time, the frame sinks too deep, it 
is raised by means of an iron hook. (fg.135.) In order 
that a roll of reeds may be spread out lengthwise on 
the lights, two cross strips of wood are nailed on 
the outside of each light, at a short distance from 
the top and bottom. (7g. 132. aand6) The dung- 
beds on which these frames are placed, are formed 
in pits about 2 ft. wider than the frames. These 
frames are fenced with boards, for the purpose of keeping the 
136 x dung-bed in its proper 
: place. (fg. 136.) In 
severe weather in winter, 
the frames are protected 


1355 
CD 


l other littery matter. 

(fig. 136. a) Melons, 
cucumbers, lettuces, 
kidneybeans, radishes, 
purslane, carrots, and cauliflowers are grown in these frames 
in the following manner : — 

Cucumbers and Melons are prepared for, according to the 
usual routine, in January and February; and the first and 
second crops are removed from the earliest frames by the 
beginning of September. The only feature in the manage- 
ment of these crops is, that the plants are scarcely, if at all, 
pruned, and that the melons are grown wholly in vegetable 
mould. The crops are abundant. Cucumbers are or may 
be cut every month in the year, and the first melons usually 
in the beginning of May. Mr. Nieman has several of M‘Phail’s 
pits, in one of which he has at this time cucumber plants 

Genz 


388 4 Dutch Manner of Forcing, 


in an advanced state. These pits are built in other walled 
pits, and the linings neatly covered with shutters, which are 
hooked to the coping of the inner pits, and thus not only 
throw off the rain, but even, when the dung sinks, keep the 
wall of the inner pit warm to the very top. (7g.137.) To 
keep down damp, the soil about: 
the plants is covered with frag- 
ments of oiled paper. Mr. 
Nieman informed us that this 
was the use he applied the paper 
to, after it had been used as a 
screen in the forcing of peaches, 
as will afterwards be described. 
From what we saw, and could 
learn from Mr. Nieman, we ft j 
think it may be said that the Dutch do not s 
in the culture of the cucumber and melon. 
Lettuces. — In the first week of September, the first crop of 
melons is removed, the mould thrown to one side, the dung 
stirred up a foot or more in depth, and sometimes a little 
fresh dung added. ‘The mould is then returned, and the bed 
being smoothed, one lettuce plant of a very small size is placed 
under the centre of each pane of glass (or 30 in one light), 
and so as to be within 3 in. of the glass. ‘The reason for 
putting the plants under the centre of the panes is, that the 
water of condensation which collects on the lead lap, may 
drop between the plants and not on them. At first planting, 
however, five or six plants are placed in the upper part of the 
bed under the lap, and remain there for a few weeks as a 
reserve, in case of vacancies in the permanent plants. Very 
little air is given to these plants, and no water whatever. The 
vegetable mould is black, of a crumbly, rough, dry appearance, 
and seems to keep away damps from the leaves, by absorbing 
moisture in the way rotten granite, oatmeal, coal ashes, and 
other substances are known to do. (Lincyc. of Gard., § 3055.) 
Various plantations of lettuces are made in the same man- 
ner, till the last day of October; and it was observed to us, 
by Mr. Nieman, that the distance of two days between plan- 
tations made in October, frequently occasioned the difference of 
four or six weeks between the times of their maturity in spring. 
At this time (November 7.), there are in the melon ground at 
Hylands thirteen lights, each containing thirty plants of let- 
tuces ; the first two or three lights were nearly ready to cut, 
and the last four lights consisted of plants with not more than 
three or four leaves each. Mr. Nieman assured us that he would 


as.practised at Hylands. 389 


cut lettuces every day till May next, or till he had them in 
the open air; and that those in January and February would 
be as large, firm, tender, and succulent, as the best that can 
be grown in the open air in summer. In short, he stated 
that, in Holland, larger and better lettuces were grown in 
frames in winter, than in the open air in summer. The sort of 
lettuce used, Mr. Nieman calls “ the Dutch Forcing ;” it seems 
to us like the Union Cabbage Lettuce; but the kind seems of 
no great consequence. ‘To any gardener willing to try the 
plan, nothing more need be said, except that no warm lin- 
ings are added during the winter, but only litter or leaves 
(jig. 136. a); that the frames are powerfully covered up dur- 
ing nights with reeds and mats, and in very severe weather 
almost for entire days; that in very bright sunshine the glass 
is shaded by the spray of beech or hornbeam, which is con- 
sidered preferable to mats, as moderating the brilliancy of 
the sun’s rays, and at the same time admitting light. As 
before mentioned, no water is given during the whole course 
of culture. The plants are always close to the glass, and the 
space outside the frame always kept covered with vegetable 
mould to the height of the top of the frame without. (jig. 136.) 
Most gardeners would be afraid of the leaves damping off, 
but this never happens. Should any leaves happen to decay 
or become mouldy, they must be carefully removed without 
loss of time. 

Carrots and Radishes. — Several sowings of these are made 
during the winter, as they may be expected to be wanted, on 
old melon beds, prepared in the same way as for lettuces, but 
with rather more warm dung. ‘The first sowing is made in 
the last week of September, along with a few radish seeds, 
which were now making their appearance. By means of other 
sowings in hotbeds, and six or seven sowings in the open gar- 
den in January, February, March, April, May, August, and 
September, Mr. Nieman draws young carrots about the size 
of radishes every day in the year. No carrots of a larger 
size are ever used in Mr. Labouchere’s family, except for 
the servants. The sorts used appear to be a good variety 
of the Early Horn. The plants get.no water during the 
whole winter, and are in every other respect treated like the 
lettuces. 

Kidneybeans. — An old melon bed is prepared in the last 
week of August for the first crop, the fruit of which was now 
setting, and in part ready to gather. As the kidneybeans 
require a good deal of heat, a bed, composed in great part of 
fresh dung, is made up in the second week of November for 

. cc 3 


390 Dutch Manner of Forcing, 


the second crop, which comes into bearing in six weeks, or 
about the first week of January, and, by cutting down, is kept 
in a bearing state till the crop in the open air comes in suc- 
cession. The sort used is the Small Early White, apparently 
a hybrid between what is called the Dutch Runner and the 
Early White Dwarf. No water is given till the spring months, 
and very little then. 

Cauliflowers. — A bed of half-spent dung, or dung and leaves, 
is made up in the last week of December, covered with vege- 
table mould, and about a dozen plants inserted under each 
light; they do not grow much till February, but afterwards 
they increase rapidly, are thinned out to six in a light, and are 
fit to cut in April. They get no water till March. 

Peas. — Mr. Nieman has still peas to gather in the open air, 
and he has a quantity in full bloom, in the front of low peach 
houses, on the beds of dung which supplied the heat to the 
house during the preceding spring. If November prove a 

clear month, “he may gather a dish on the first week of De- 
cember, as he did last year: if he should be unsuccessful, the - 
loss is only the seed and the labour. Early peas are Bbiamed 
by sowing in frames or beds prepared as for the cauliflower. 
Mr. Nieman generally gathers his first peas in April. The 
sort he uses appears to be what is called the Early May. 

. 124.) 

Gall Salading is grown by Mr. Nieman in the usual man- 
ner, and potatoes, asparagus, seakale, tart rhubarb, chiccory, 
parsley roots, mint, tarragon, and other herbs, are grown or 
forced much in the same way as they are in British gardens. 
Purslane is grown in the melon beds, on the spare spaces at 
top and bottom, and removed as the vines extend to these 
spaces. 

The Pits for forcing Peaches, Apneas, Vines, and Rasp- 


berries ( figs. 138. and 139.) are thus constructed : — nen are 
138 


| ecowenncrens, 
we 


HH va 
ZAR LENE. ZEEE TET ' LLL 


AG 
G 
GZ 
ZB 
GZ 
Z 
Z 
Z 
Z 
Ze 
ZB 
Z 
Gg 
Z 
Z 
Z 
Z 
Z 
J 


Ms 


ae 8 ft. 6 in. Pde, dine By a Grek wall if Pry high 


as prashsed at Elylands. 391 


behind, and about 4 ft. in front; the bottom of the pit being 
on a slope, so that the 
back wall is between 1 
=. and 2 ft. higher than the 
x front wall. A space in 
=<, front of the pit (/ig. 138. 
7 a) is divided from it bya 
~ boarded partition (d), and 
is destined for containing 
the mould in which the 
vines’ and peaches are grown. This partition is of boards 
rather than of bricks, for the more easy transmission of the 
heat from the dung to the earth. The main body of the pit is 
divided by cross walls of one brick in thickness (c), into divi- 
sions of 8 ft., or two lights each. In the centre of the boarded 
partition, a board about 2 ft. by 18 in., with a gap on its under 
edge for the stem of a tree (fre. 140. a), takes out; and this 
. d 140 board, and also the coping behind, 

ite dene have a notch for the fitting in of a 

E jira IE movable rafter, on which to rest the 

e 1 Jf two sashes which cover each division. 
= i ae (d, figs. 138, 139, and 140.) There 
ERE oF is also on the boarded partition an 
GS ae lk iron stop for each sash, as in the hot- 


boo becom bed frames. ( fies. 133.6, and 140. e 
(i |. Vy lif Bepicnis curiae are mantel 

MA fi inside of the pit, in a border about 
18 in. wide, for that purpose; the stems of the plants, when the 
latter are very vigorous, extend the width of the pit. Where 
raspberries are to be forced extensively, the whole front of 
the pit, to the depth of 18in. might be made movable, in 
order to admit a continued bed of stems ( fig. 138. f); and, as 
the wood of raspberries will not reach more than half way to 
the back of one of the main divisions, a temporary partition, 
for the mould of a second set of plants, may be formed along 
the back of the pit. (jg. 138. g) The trellis on which the 
trees are trained is formed in the usual manner, and placed 
18 in. under the glass (fig. 139. h); and close beneath this 
trellis is placed a frame, the size of the division, covered with 
oil paper. (fig. 139.7) The interstices between this paper 
frame and the walls of the pit being carefully caulked with tow 
or wool. Moss would do, but it is said to be a great harbour 
for vermin, such as ants, which would easily crumble it to 
pieces. ‘The use of these paper frames is to prevent the steam 
of the dung from coming in contact with the peach, nectarine, 
cc 4 


392 Dutch Manner of Forcing, 


or apricot trees, and to reflect back the heat of the dung 
where it is too violent; but they are not used at all for the 
vines or raspberries, as the steam of dung, at least such as 
arises through a stratum of tan or leaves (jig. 139. i), does 
these plants no injury. The paper used is what is called 
fine cartridge, but unsized printer’s demy will do. The pre- 
sent price of printer’s demy is 12. 7s. per ream, and a ream 
consists of 480 sheets, each 1 ft. 10in. by 1 ft. 5in.; so that 
the panes of the frame should be made of the latter dimen- 
sion. ‘They are oiled with common linseed oil boiled, being 
previously pasted on with a paste made of starch boiled up 
with a little glue. 

Peaches, Nectarines, and Apricots. —'The earliest crops of 
these at Hylands are obtained from pits, in which the trees ~ 
are placed at different periods, from the last week in Novem- 
ber, to the first week in January; the second crops are ob- 
tained from small houses of the kind described by‘ Mr. 
Lindegaard (Encyc. of Gard., § 2666), and to be afterwards 
noticed; the third successional crops are obtained from 
larger houses, built by Mr. Atkinson in his usual manner. 
The pits have already been very well described by Mr. 
Lindegaard (Lncyc. of Gard., § 2665), and it is rather sur- 
prising that they have come so little into use in England. No 
gardener, we are persuaded, can visit Hylands without being 
convinced of their very superior excellence for early forcing. 

In commencing the preparations for forcing peaches in 
pits, a division is made choice of which has an unoccupied 
division on each side of it, in order that when first the one 
of these unoccupied divisions, and then the other of them 
shall be occupied, they may act as linings to the middle one. 
Two loads of littery dung, as it comes from the stables, with 
a proportion of tree leaves fresh gathered, is found sufficient 
for one division; it is thrown in, levelled, and covered with a 
foot of tan ( fig. 139. /), the paper frames (2) after a few days are 
laid on, caulked tightly, and over them is placed the trellis. A 
tree of a sufficient size to fill the division is then taken from the 
garden_ wall; and laid down on the trellis with its roots 
through the stem hole. (fi. 140. a) If the stem of the tree 
and roots are flexible, it is laid down on the trellis as it grew 
against the wall: but if the stem and roots are old and rigid, 
the tree is turned on its face, and the side which was next 
the wall, presented to the light; this indeed is the general 
practice. ‘The shoots being tied to the trellis, and the roots 
covered with vegetable mould, mixed with a little loam, the 
movable rafter is put in its place, and the sashes put on, and 


as practised at Hylands. 393 


abundance of air is given day and night, and some water to the 
roots to settle the earth about them. ‘The branches are fre- 
quently sprinkled with water by means of a hand syringe. The 
sashes are covered every night with reeds; shaded during bright 
sunshine with branches of beech or spruce, or with pea-sticks ; ; 
and, when severe weather sets in, a thick lining of leaves is 
formed round the back and sides of the pit ( fie 139. 2), and 
over the roots (72), not for the purpose of producing heat, 
but of keeping in what is already there. Not more than one 
tree is put to forcing at one time ; because, the produce being 
all ripe at once, and not of a nature to keep long, it is found 
better to put them into forcing, so as to procure ” successional 
supplies from one tree at a one The first tree is generally 
put down as soon as the leaves drop in November or Decem- 
ber, and one every ten days afterwards till the beginning of 
January, observing to fill the divisions alternately with the 
first planted trees, in order that the succeeding trees may 
always act as linings to those which have preceded them. 
Thus a pit for twelve trees (fg. 141.) would be pianted in 


| ig 14] | 


the orden, 2: 45 62.8. 109122, 5/3. 5.719. 1S. Brom 
trees which cover 10 square feet Me Nieman has gathered 
150 fruit. His first apricots are generally ripe in the end of 
April, or beginning of May; his first peaches or nectarines 
in the second week of May; and he has a succession of both 
till the fruit of the trees on the open wall come into use. 

Scarcely any pruning is given to the trees when they are 
tied to the trellis, and no extraordinary care is taken with 
their roots in taking them from the wall. Mr. Nieman has had 
a full crop from trees which have been planted with only three 
large stumps, and scarcely any fibres; such stumps, however, 
in the rich mould, warmed through the boarded partition by 
the dung in the pit, produce fibres, which, in the course of 
the season, attain the thickness of the finger, and many feet 
in length. When the leaves drop from the trees, the latter 
are removed, and replaced against the wall in the room of 
others taken to the forcing-pit. Thus, all the trees of a peach 
wall are taken to the pit and forced in rotation, and this occa- 
sional removal is found of advantage to them by moderating 
the vigour of their shoots. 

The simplicity, economy, and especially the certainty, of 
this plan of forcing, very strongly recommend it. The dung 


394 Dutch Manner of Forcing, 


being once laid in, nothing is ever done to it till it is taken out ; 
no linings are made on purpose for keeping up the heat, not 
much water is required, and in short the routine culture is 
nearly reduced to covering at nights, shading in bright sun- 
shine, and giving air. One point of practice only remains to. 
be mentioned; viz., that when the heat begins to decline, the 
paper of the frame is torn in pieces, for the frames cannot 
easily be taken out without injuring the trees, in order to ad- 
mit the heat to ascend directly from the tan to the leaves and 
fruit. A thermometer is not kept in these pits by Mr. 
Nieman; but, judging from appearances and what he states, 
the temperature is kept rather lower than in British peach 
houses. No particular sorts of peach, nectarine, or apricot 
are preferred for this mode of forcing; but the Double Mon- 
tagne and Noblesse are considered the best peaches for this 
purpose. 

Cherries of the May Duke kind are frequently, and plums, 
apples, and pears, occasionally, forced in Holland in the 
same manner, and Mr. Nieman informs us with perfect suc- 
cess. In Holland he generally gathered his first cherries in 
the second week of April. 

The second Crop of Peaches at Hylands is brought forward 
in a low steep-roofed house (fig. 142.), about 25 ft. long, 
8 ft. wide, and 8 ft. high in the highest 
part. The back and front walls are 
of brick; and on the external sur- 
face of the back wall (fig. 143. a) are 
trained cherry trees; on its internal 
surface (6), peaches, nectarines, or 
apricots. Within the front wall of 
this structure (c), a pit is formed Stl _JI= 
for containing a dung-bed, on which strawberries (d), taken 

- 145 up with balls or turned out of 
pots, are planted in leaf mould, 
after the dung and leaves-on 
which they are placed have some- 
what subsided. The sorts are the 
Roseberry and Red Alpine, and 
it is estimated that the produce 
fixie 18 double what it would be if the 
(Eau Plants were kept in pots. The 
glass roof of this house is in 
single sashes (fig. 144.), which 
are movable, and applicable to 
various other purposes. This glass is regularly covered every 


NI 
A 
nN 
Ny 


S ae TTR 


SAA 


as practised at Hylands. 395 


night with mats, which remain 


rolled up during the day, on the} f 
portion of opaque e boarded roof (fig 
143. e) which serves as a coping to PTT 
the back wall. Two trees (fie. 145. 

JA; &) are considered sufficient for | 

vines or other trees are trained up 

the rafters. The details of forcing) | tl 

do not differ from those of Br itish SE 
gardeners ; the dung-bed in front, == 
and the sun when he happens to 


the wall of this house, and no 
shine, supply the heat, and the operator does aba Hie can to 


SSA WMO 


a 
WY 
—— oe ene 


retain it by powerful coverings at night, and, in severe weather, 
during great part of the day. 

Vines. —These are planted in the front border (jig. 138. @)s 
and drawn through holes in the boarded partition; they remain 
there several years, producing crops every year. No paper 
frames are used, as in forcing peaches: the rest is routine. The 
soil and plants are then renewed; the plants in the following 
very expeditious manner : — Several yines of the sorts used in 
forcing, which are only two, the Dutch Sweetwater, and their 
Frankendale, which seems to be our Hamburgh, are kept as 
stock plants against a wall, trained in the Dutch manner, 2. e. 
with vertical shoots trained from one horizontal shoot at the 
bottom of the wall. (Encyc. of Gard., § 2966.) Small wicker 
baskets are made about 1 ft. in diameter, and 18 in. in depth; 
one of the vertical shoots is brought down from the wall, and 
drawn through the side of the basket near the bottom, twisted 
just within it, and brought up and tied to a stake. The 
basket is then filled with vegetable mould firmly pressed to 
the shoot, and a sufficient number of baskets being so pre- 
pared, the whole are surrounded and covered to the depth of 
a foot or more with half-spent dung. During summer they 
are liberally supplied with water ; and, in consequence of the 
heat of the dung and supply of moisture, by the Ist of 


396 Dutch Manner of Forcing, 


November the baskets are filled with roots, which protrude. 
several inches ‘on every side. ‘The layer is now cut off, and 
the plant and basket with all its roots removed, and planted 
where it is finally to remain without taking off the basket. 
Plants so obtained will bear an excellent crop the first year, 
and unless the blossoms have been pinched off will have borne 
several bunches as a layer, so that. no fruit has been lost, and 
plants such as could not be purchased obtained. Mr. Nieman 
was at this time removing some plants so produced; and we 
must confess, the quantity and vigour of their roots far sur- 
passed any thing we had ever seen. When young plants are 
not wanted, the stock trees are trained to bear fruit in the 
usual manner, and the fruit is generally ripened by placing 
sashes against the wall, by protecting with reed mats at night, 
or by bringing down the branches, and training them under 
the glass of a common hot-bed frame. 

Raspberries. —'The Red Antwerp is found more suitable for 
forcing than the White, the fruit of the latter being tender, 
and apt to-break in handling. A very good plan is, to have 
a narrow pit on purpose for raspberries; to plant the first 
division in January, which will produce ripe fruit in the first 
week of April, and the rest in succession. No paper frames 
are required, and no water is given but once after planting. 

Cherries are not forced at Hylands, but there is a cherry 
garden, of about a quarter of an:acre, which deserves notice. 
The form is nearly a parallelogram (fig. 146.), about twice as 
long as it is broad; it is surrounded 146 
by a wire fence 10 ft. high, the tex- 
ture being such as will exclude small © 
birds; that is, each mesh is 2 in. 
high by 1in. broad. The trees are 
standards, planted in the angles of 
squares, and their branches are kept 
in a horizontal position by being tied 
down to stakes. A gravel walk enters 
at one end, passes up the middle, and 
goes out at the other end. Perhaps 
a,winding walk (a, a, a) would have a 
better effect. In the intervals among 
the trees are planted gooseberries, 
currants, raspberries, and strawber- 
ries, of different sorts. ‘The cherries 
are of various kinds, but chiefly May- 
Dukes, White Hearts, and the Black ; 
Circassian. At regular distances all through the area of this 


aa 


@®e@8 8 


@ 
2 
® 
S 
B 
8 
@ 
S 
@ 
@ 
@ 


as practised at Hylands. s 397 


plot, wooden boxes, as sockets for posts (5), are fixed in the 
ground ; and, when the fruit begins to ripen, a net, of the kind 
used in pilchard fishing, and made at Bridport, in Dorset- 
shire, the meshes of 2 in., is drawn over the whole cherry 
garden, fastened to the top of the wire fence by hooks which 
are fixed there, and supported from the trees by the props 
placed in the sockets. These props are 14 ft. high at the 
sides, and gradually rise to the middle of the garden, and 
they have blunt heads, in order not to injure the netting. ‘The 
netting necessary for covering this space, which is 80 ft. by 
220 ft., is in two pieces, each 100 ft. by 150 ft; it is put on in 
the following manner : — One piece is spread out immediately 
within the wire fence, and a number of men with poles carry - 
it over the tops of the trees and posts, after it is fastened to 
one side; then they fasten it on the other, and so on till the 
whole is completed. The separate divisions are then joined 
together, which thus form one entire netted roof, giving the 
garden a very singular and yet new and agreeable appear- 
ance. During rain or dewy evenings the net is tightened, or 
stretched to its utmost extent (fig. 147. a), and forms a grand 
vault over the whole 
cherry garden (jig. 148. 
a): during sunshine, or 
when the weather is dry, 
it is slackened (jig. 147. 
6), and forms a festoon- 
ed vault supported by 
posts. (jig. 148. 6) It 
is advisable to tan the 
net every year with oak 
bark, which adds greatly 
to its durability. thd 

Were the object of this cherry garden merely to protect 
the fruit from birds, training the trees on espaliers, and apply- 


pert peat ARS A TE OS 148 . 
ee SS rs Fee PSS Cee 
Se See teens | bie ! See, S Bi 
SSS SS SRS SSS S_ ——— 
A f oe Aaa g i 
H ky ia ll 
WX 


f | H Hy 
Be eecerereh ae bles) ; Le ‘a 
UMA W.10dd Hh. ._ _ WW. WW 


ing nets, as is done against walls, would be an easier and 
° e ° 
cheaper mode; but the cherry garden at Hylands is intended 
as a place of enjoyment, where ladies and gentlemen may 
wander about, and help themselves from the trees and bushes. 
Growing fruit trees on arched trellises over walks, the sides of 
such trelliswork being open to admit air to flavour the fruit, 


398 Dutch Manner of Forcing, 


has been tried in some places, and, by means of nets, cherries, 
damson and other plums, gooseberries, and currants, are 
preserved till November. 

Reed Walls and Screens are a good deal used by Mr. Nieman. 
What is called a reed wall (figs. 149, 150.) may be described 
as 10 ft. high, and consisting of a double ; 
trellis (a 6), composed of horizontal 
laths about 8 in. apart, a coping board q 
(c) 9in. broad; the reeds placed end- 
wise within the trellis (d), and sup- 


NSIS SYWAY EARNER 2A 


ported about a foot from the ground, TINE 
to keep them from rotting ; this mterval CE 
of a foot being filled up with slates, cll |b 
placed on edge (e). The trellis rods AE 
are nailed to posts (jg. 150. f°), and, 

by taking off a few of these rods on The 
one side, the reed mats can be taken dl) 
out and renewed. Russian mats would AN IL 
no doubt answer very well, and last a all NZ 
long time, and they might be taken out 4H IP 149 
with still less trouble. Straw mats || 2 
(p. 167.) would also do, where reeds A 
could not be got; and heath, as being of i 

a dark colour, and very durable, would | 
make the best of all structures of this EAE 
kind. Mr. Nieman finds peaches, grapes, tb 


and other fruits, ripen just as well on 
these structures as on brick walls. 
The reeds of Holland are stronger 
than British reeds, and commonly last 
in such walls for ten years. Mr. Nieman 
imports his coverings from Holland, 
and finds them more durable, and not 
much dearer, than those of England. 
Gardeners may procure British reed 
mats by applying to Robert Resker, 


Whee is 


reed mat manufacturer, Writtle, Essex, LIA ae _— 
. Lizz fi | Z 
who manufactures mats of any size to yy) 7 
mii 7777G. 
order, at 14d. per square foot. Any Sj 4g Ze 


respectable London nurseryman will procure for a country 


as practised at Hylands. -899 


gardener, either British or foreign reed mats, of any descrip- 
tion, through the regular channels, and at the regular prices. 

The trellis against reed walls should consist of horizontal 
wires, rods, or laths, when vines, currants, or trees are to be 
trained vertically; and of vertical wires or rods when trees 
are to be trained in the fan or in the horizontal manner. The 
most generally useful description of trellis is that where the 
rods are vertical, as they are in the reed structures at Hylands. 

The common brick walls at the garden at Hylands are, for 
the most part, trellised, Mr. Nieman considering the trees 
less liable to injury from extreme heat, and the fruit likely to 
be better flavoured, when the branches are kept a few inches 
from the wall, and the fruit in consequence surrounded by a 
free circulation of air. 

Grapes and Peaches are also grown at Hylands in the small 
Dutch houses already described (p. 394.; and by Mr. Linde- 
gaard in Hort. Trans.; and in Encyc. of Gard., § 2666.), 
heated by a bed of dung in front. ‘They are also grown in 
English houses, ventilated on Mr. Atkinson’s plan. (Gard. 
Mag., vol. ii. p. 201.) ‘The vines are grown, one plant to each 
rafter, and one shoot from each plant, which is spurred in. 
When the spurs get too large and unsightly, they are cut off 
close to the shoot in the manner. said to be invented by a 
Mr. Lawrence, described as practised by Mr. Squib (p. 245.); 
and, after a number of years, the vines are rooted out, but 
not more than one or two in a season, and replaced by young 
plants, procured as already described ; or, if of new sorts from a 
nursery, planted a year or two before those they are to suc- 
ceed are removed. By this mode of training the vines, there 
is always a space of a few inches in breadth in the middle of 
each sash, through which light is freely admitted, and con- 
sequently strawberries and other plants are grown to greater 
perfection, and both grapes and strawberries better flavoured. 
Peaches are grown in the manner common in English gar- 
dens, both under the glass and against the back wall; but 
Mr. Nieman has a great objection to peach houses in which 
the sashes do not take off, that being necessary, according to 
his experience, and we believe to that of most gardeners, to 
the proper colouring of the fruit. One vinery for early forcing 
is fitted up for heating on the hot water system, under the 
direction of Mr. Atkinson, by our correspondent Mr. Barrow 
(p. 422.), which Mr. Nieman thinks favourably of, having a great 
dislike to the use of fire heat in every description of culture. 

On the whole, much may be learned by a British kitchen- 
gardener, from an inspection of the Dutch practices at Hylands. 


4.00 Horticultural Chemistry. 


One thing we should insist on, if we were able to keep a proper 
garden establishment, viz. large succulent cabbage lettuces, 
brought to table every day during the winter season 5 another 
thing is, all early forcing conducted in pits; a third, the en-. 
tire disuse of flues, and the substitution of dung, leaves, tan, 
or hot water; and a fourth practice, the covering of all descrip- 
tions of glass frames or roofs in the kitchen-garden with straw 
or reed mats. 


Arr. II. Outlines of Horticultural Chemistry : — Manures. 
By G. W. Jounsron, Esq. of Great Totham, Essex. 


(Continued from p. 272.) 


I sHaLL now proceed to consider manures; a class of 
bodies of the first importance to the cultivator of the soil, yet 
of the economy of which he is generally most ignorant, inas- 
much as that their judicious employment requires considerable 
chemical acquirements. Every substance capable of increas- 
ing the fertility of a soil, when incorporated with it, is a ma- 
nure ; hence, the earths, when applied to regulate its retentive 
powers, are actually manures.* Manures are animal, vegeta- 
ble, and mineral; they directly assist the growth of plants, 
Ist, by entering into their composition; 2dly, by absorbing 
and retaining moisture from the atmosphere; 3dly, by absorb- 
ing the gases of the atmosphere; 4thly, by stimulating the 
vascular system of the plants. Manures approximately assist 


* If the above definition and subsequent characteristics of manures are 
correct, I cannot perceive the grounds on which Agronome considers it 
“ false philosophy ”? to rank common salt as one of the class. According 
to his own experience, “it destroys weeds and worms ;” “ it enters into the 
constitution of certain plants;” “it hardens the straw;” “ it makes the 
grain plump.” If these results do not constitute the substance effecting 
them a manure, all our agricultural writers and philologists are wrong in 
their definitions. I am glad, however, to read that Agronome confines 
his differing with me only as to the meaning of a word; he says, “I have 
witnessed some extraordinary good effects from the application of salt ;”— 
did its most strenuous advocates ever see more? He annually “ uses great 
quantities of salt ;” may the community of agriculturists profit by his ex- 
ample! Yet, let it be observed, in a prior communication (Vol. II. p. 506.), 
Agronome states that salt is only good for killing weeds and worms. One 
sentence in his last communication renders refutation needless. ‘‘ I could 
fill,” he says, “ several sheets on that side of the question” (viz. its enter- 
ing into the constitution of plants, and its beneficial influence), “ but am 
engaged at present on the opposite side.” In a future: number, then, we 
may anticipate that he will still more cogently confute himself. 


Manures. <4 401 


vegetation : 1st, by killing predatory vermin and weeds; 2dly, 
by promoting the decomposition of stubborn organic remains 
in the soil; 3dly, by protecting incumbent plants from violent 
revolution of temperature. 

All these properties seldom, if ever, occur in one species of 
manure, but each is usually particularised by possessing one 
or more in a superior degree. That is the most generally 
applicable manure that is composed of matters essential to the 
growth of plants; the chief of these are carbon, hydrogen, and 
oxygen, therefore all animal and vegetable substances are ex- 
cellent manures. It would evidently be of great benefit, if 
every plant could be manured with the decaying parts of its 
own species ; the ancients made this a particular object in some 
parts of their agriculture. We read that those vines were 
the most fruitful, which were manured with their own leaves 
and prunings and the skins of expressed grapes. (Crescentius 
Agric. §2.¢.6.) This rule might be so far followed, as that 
the stems of potatoes, peas, &c., could be dug respectively 
into the compartments where those crops are intended to be 
grown in the following year. 

The following table shows the relative constitution of com= 
mon stable manure and our usual crops :— 


Stable Manure. Crops. 

Carbon, 

Hydrogen, These are chief components of all plants. 
Oxygen, 

Nitrogen, - - In some vegetables. 

Carbonate of lime, In almost all plants. 


Carbonate of soda, 
Benzoate of soda, 


Muriate of potash, In cucumbers, garlic, &c. 

Muriate of soda, - Perhaps in all plants. 

Sulphate of soda, 

Sulphate of potash, In cucumbers, garlic, &c. 
Magnesia, - In all corn, and many other plants. 
Phosphate of lime, Potatoes, onions, &c. &c, 

Oxide ofiron, = In most plants. 

anes In most plants. 


Stable manure, and for the same reason every other manure 
composed of animal or vegetable remains, is evidently valuable 
to plants, by affording them such matters as they are com- 
posed of. But this is not the only reason that manures are 
beneficial; for in that case mere decayed parts of their own 
species should be the most fertilising applications. ‘There 1s 
no doubt that plants are essentially benefited by such appli- 
cations; but why do potatoes, for example, grow more luxu- 

Vor. III. — No. 12. DD 


402. Horticultural Chemistry. 


riant on ground manured with sprats, than on that manured 
with the dung of horses, and both these superior to the same 
erop’ grown on a plot manured with the decayed parts of its 
own species? Apparently, because the manures mentioned 
decompose with a rapidity exactly proportioned to the order 
of benefit. Sprats decompose, and their parts become soluble 
and capable of introsusception, first and most rapidly; then — 
the dung of animals; lastly, the vegetable remains. All the 

less solid animal matters decompose with greater rapidity than 

vegetable matters: hence the dung of such animals as are car- 

nivorous is the most prompt in benefiting vegetation ; witness 

night soil, pig’s dung, &c.; but such manures are not the most 
permanent. Hassenfratz manured two portions of the same 

soil, No. 1. with a mixture of dung and straw highly putrefied ; 
No. 2. with a similar mixture, newly made. He observed that 
during the first year the plants in No.1. produced the best 
crop, but the second year (no more dung being added) 

No. 2. produced the best crop ; the result was the same the 

third year, after which both seemed alike exhausted. (Ann. 
de Chimie, xiv. 57.) The same chemist found that a soil 

manured with wood shavings did not, during the two sueceed- 
ine years, produce a superior vegetation than the same soil. 
without any manure; the third year, however, it was better, 

nor was it until the fifth year that it reached the maximum of 
fertility. ‘The site of a wood-stack and the newly cleared 

lands of America are eminently fertile, from the gradually 

decomposing vegetable remains they contain. 

These facts and observations teach us that the most prompt 
manures are the reverse of being economical: vegetable re- 
mains, incorporated with a soil, will insure an average pro- 
duce during several years; animal matters and dungs 
highly putrescent are powerfully but transiently beneficial. 
Putrefaction is evidently the means of rendering these sub- 
stances available to plants; hence thoroughly decayed stable 
manure is usually employed by gardeners, as being of imme- 
diate benefit, admitting of clean husbandry, and as economy 
is not in private establishments the general presiding genius 
of the gardens. If stable dung or other manure is allowed 
to putrefy im an unenclosed heap, the loss is immense ; all the 
gases which pass off during decomposition, all the soluble 
matters which drain away, are highly nutritious to plants, as 
has been proved by Davy and others. If the decomposition 
is thus allowed to proceed, until the heap becomes a sapona- 
ceous mass, the loss cannot be less than 50 percent. Not- 
withstanding all the reasoning of chemists, however, putrefied © 


* Manures. 403 


dung will continue'to be used; it admits of clean workman- 
ship, with less labour, and insures a good immediate crop : 
to prevent loss as much as possible, therefore, the dung-heap 
should be in a brick cistern, and covered over with earth at 
least 9 in. deep, with a well at one corner to retain the drainage, 
which, from time to time, should be returned over the heap. 
The chief component of plants is carbon, and we shall not 
be far wrong if we estimate it as constituting 50 per cent. of every 
vegetable; it is the decayed organic remains of the soil which 
supply a considerable proportion of this to the growing plants. 
It is a subject of debate among chemists, how the carbon of 
manures is imbibed by plants. Carbon, say they, is insoluble, 
and experiment has demonstrated that the roots cannot absorb 
it in a solid state. Sennebier, having observed that water 
impregnated with carbonic acid, when applied to the roots of 
plants, was beneficial, concluded that the carbon of manures is 
converted into carbonic acid, and is in that state imbibed b 
them. (Phys. Vég., v. ili. p. 55.) . es 
Thomson, in an early edition of his System of Chemistry; 
gave a still more elaborate theory, which, being in subsequent 
editions omitted, we have no necessity to demonstrate absurd. 
I consider that the facts of which we are in possession, if pro- 
gressively estimated, place the subject in a very clear light. 
Saussure found that a soil deprived of its soluble matters, by 
repeated decoctions with water, would not support vegetation 
so well as that portion of the same soil not so deprived of its 
soluble constituents. (Recherch. sur la Vég., ev. § ii. p- 170.) 
The extract thus obtained was evidently composed of saccha- 
rine matter, mucilage, extractive principle, &c. These, we 


Woody Fibre. Gum. Sugar 

Carbon - - 5255 - 42°25 27:5 
Oxygen - - 41°78 50°84 64.7 
Hydrogen - - 5°69 6°95 7°8 
100°00 100°00 100°0 


That such processes actually do occur, Saussure has de- 
monstrated by experiment: he found that moist wood, exposed: 
DD 2 


404 Keeping Ice in Ice-houses. 


to the air, absorbed oxygen, evolved carbonic acid, and water 
was evidently decomposed. Thus, then, putrefaction seems 
to render organic matters fit for the nourishment of plants, 
by converting them into saccharine and mucilaginous com- 
pounds, capable of solution in water. Hence the phenomenon 
of wood, which is slow of decomposition, being a permanent 
manure; animal matters, which rapidly putrefy, being tran- 
sient, though temporarily powerful: hence the economy of 
using partially decomposed composts is also rationalised ; when 
completely decomposed, its soluble matters, being more than 
can be consumed at the time by the crop, pass away with the 
drainage water, much is lost in the state of gas, and all that 
is left are a few earthy, saline, and carbonaceous particles, of 
comparatively little value. 

Of the less general manures, which benefit plants by enter- 
ing into their composition, a few words will suffice. Sulphate 
of lime (gypsum) is a component of clover, lucerne, turnips, 

c.: hence it has been applied, with benefit for these crops, 
to such soils as did not already contain it. Bones, broken 
small, have lately become a very general manure; their benefit, 
which is very permanent, is easily accounted for. ‘The bones 
of oxen contain about 50 per cent. of gelatine, which is 
soluble in water, and rapidly becomes putrescent; the re- 
mainder is chiefly phosphate and carbonate of lime, salts, 
which are components of wheat, rye, barley, oats, peas, beans, 
vines, cucumbers, potatoes, garlic, onions, truffles, &c. Common 
salt, also, is employed as a manure, and is beneficial, partly in 
consequence of entering into the constitution of plants. 

I shall next proceed to consider manures as being beneficial 
to vegetation, by absorbing and retaining moisture from the 
atmosphere. 

(To be continued.) 


Art. III. On keeping Ice in Ice-houses. By Mr. Ricnarp 
SaunpErs, Gardener to C. Hoare, Esq. F.R.S. H.S. &c., 
at Luscombe, Devonshire. 

Sir, 

A REcENT article in your Magazine (p. 138.) is on the pro- 
curing of ice and filling an ice-house, and the practice recom- 
mended being somewhat different from the method which I 
have practised for a number of years with great success, I beg 
to offer you some account of this practice, considering that it 


Keeping Potatoes in Winter and Summer, | 405. 


might not be altogether uninteresting to the young gardener 
to know that a regular and plentiful supply of ice is to be 
obtained without the aid of salt: but 1 am perfectly aware 
that it is not every house that has been built for the reception 
of ice that will preserve it sufficiently well and long, however 
judiciously managed. 

My method is as follows: — As soon as the ice is frozen 
to a proper thickness, it is conveyed to the ice-house, where 
a sufficient number of men are ready to proceed to break it 
in small pieces; then they throw it into the house, where three 
or four men more are employed pounding it, till a sufficient 
quantity of powder is obtained to prevent any part of it being 
hollow. In this manner I proceed till the house and entrance, 
or passage to the house, is completely filled. The ice which 
the passage contains furnishes a supply for six or eight weeks ; 
at the expiration of which time the house is opened, and a 
quantity of straw taken into it, sufficient to fill the cavity that 
will then be found between the ice and the wall, and also to lie 
one bundle thick over the top of the ice. The passage is now 
closely filled up with straw. 

For eleven successive years the ice-house here was not 
without a large stock of ice; at the expiration of which time 
I had the then remaining ice removed, in order to examine 
the wood-work at the bottom, and to lay in a fresh quantity 
of wood faggots, which are placed over the bottom as closely 
as possible. Iam, Sir, &c. 

Luscombe, near Exeter, RicHARD SAUNDERS. 

Nov. 27. 1827. 


Arr. 1V. On keeping Potatoes through the Winter and Sum- 
mer in Canada Cellars. By Mr. Grorce Furton, Gar- 
dener to Lord Northwick, at Northwick Park. 

Sir, : 

Some of your correspondents have given an account of 
growing early and late potatoes, but I am not aware of any 
that have stated how to keep a crop of late potatoes through 
the winter and summer months in a high degree of perfection ; 
for it is often seen that the different methods of keeping, or 
rather bad treatment of the tubers, such as pitting in great 
quantities, exposure afterwards to the air in turning them 


ae 


DD oO 


406 Keeping Potatoes in Winter and Summer. 


over, frosts, &c., not only destroy many, but very much de- 
teriorate the flavour of those saved. 

The method we adopt here is as follows: — After digging 
up in the autumn, we first sort them over, then store them up 
in a dry state in what is commonly called a Canada cellar, 
which we have here, and which I would recommend before 
all other places for keeping potatoes. The building may be 
of any length or width, according to the quantity to be put 
in it, and not deeper than 3 ft. below the ground level out- 
side, nor more than 9 ft. in the clear inside of the vault, 
arched over as for an ice-house, with one strong door, to shut 
very close. In such a place it will be found that, though the 
temperature be a few degrees below the freezing point, the 
tubers will not be frost-bitten, if even uncovered, which they 
should always be; and, if there is plenty of room in the cellar, 
piling them up in right angles against the back part of the 
building is an advantage, as it keeps them more from grow- 
ing than when in a square body. I do not mean to hold out 
to you or your readers that Canada cellars are quite new in 
this country; but I only wonder why they are not more general, 
as they are so well calculated for keeping various roots and 
vegetables in severe winters. 

' As a proof of the excellence of the above method of keep-_ 

ing potatoes in a fine, mealy, yet moist condition, I sent some 
to London in an excellent state of preservation, for Lord 
Northwick’s table, on the 4th of July last, which were highly 
approved of by His Lordship, and also by the family, although 
we had at the same time in the garden the same variety, viz. 
what is called the Harrow potato, ready to dig up. ‘This 
variety combines in some degree earliness and lateness, as we 
can keep them nearly ten months in perfection from the time 
of digging up. 

With respect to the different methods of growing early 
potatoes, I have only to observe that I plant a round Dutch 
variety in the open garden in July, which is ready to dig up 
in November, as wanted for the table. ‘They keep very well 
through the winter in the ground, when covered thick with 
‘sawdust or oak leaves. ‘This method, taking every thing 
into account, is decidedly the best for what may be called an 
early winter crop. T am, Sir, &c. 

Georce Futton, 
Northwick Park Gardens, Sept. 1827. 


Training the Vine on hanging Trellises. 407 


Art. V. Result of a Trial of Vines trained on hanging Trel- 
lises in the Garden of R. Bruce, Esq. of Kennet, Clackman= 
nanshire. By Mr. James Barnet, Curator of the Experi- 
mental Garden of the Caledonian Horticultural Society. 


Dear Sir, 

I is not my intention, in the following attempt, to compare 
training on hanging trellises with every mode of training vines 
in vineries ; I only propose to notice the result of this practice, 
compared with that of the most prevalent and usual modes of 
training to wire trellises placed parallel to the roof, and at the 
distance of 1 ft. or 1 ft. 3 in. from it. 

When the vines are trained so as wholly to cover the roof; 
the practice is considered by some objectionable, as excluding 
too much light. To remove this objection, Mr. Archibald 
Reid, of Balcarras, introduced trellises depending vertically 
from each rafter, and averaging about 4 ft. in depth, as al- 
ready described in your Magazine, vol. ii. p. 427., and in the 
Caledonian Horticultural Transactions, vol. iii. p.465., and 
partially adopted in private gardens, perhaps to a greater 
extent than they deserve. 

Half ofa vinery in the garden of R. Bruce, Esq., was sub- 
jected to the Balcarras mode; the other half was left as for- 
merly, trained up the roof. The vines were then in full 
bearing, having been planted twenty years. The depth of 
trellis in front, or at its commencement, is 1 ft., gradually 
increasing in a curved line to 3 ft. 6 in. at the back; it is com- 
posed of strips of wood four eighths by three eighths of an 
inch thick, placed vertically, and nailed to the rafter at the 
upper end, and at the lower to a piece of wood half an inch 
thick by 3 in. broad, forming the same curve as the lower part 
of the trellis, but placed 4 in. higher than the ends of the 
laths. These spars are 1 ft. apart from each other, and placed 
opposite on both sides of the rafter. [A little different from the 
trellis described Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p. 428. fie. 127. ] 

On this trellis the vines, which had formerly been on the 
roof, were now trained. ‘The house was slowly forced, com- 
mencing about the middle of March, 1820, and the routine 
course pursued, the temperature ranging from 65° to 85°. 
The crop was ready to gather about the end of July. Although 
a portion of the clusters nearest the glass on the hanging 
trellis began to colour a few days before those on the roof, 
the bunches on its sides were later; so that, generally, those . 
on the roof were as forward as those on the hanging trellis. 
The bunches on the lower part remained later by a week, 
paler in colour, and did not acquire so fine a flavour as those 

DD 4 


408 Training the Vine on hanging Trellises. 


on.the roof; neither was the young wood on the lower part of 
the trellis well ripened, but remained soft and spongy, which 
had a tendency to diminish the next year’s crop and the 
vigour of the trees, Although more light was admitted to 
the floor of the house, its distribution was not so equal to the 
vines; because those kinds producing leaves on long foot- 
stalks, such as the Black Hamburgh, exclude the light from 
those on the lower part of the trellis. 

When this kind of training is to be adopted, I would 
recommend the sorts producing small leaves, such as the 
Frontignacs, to be preferred; and where other exotic plants 
are combined as a secondary object, every alternate rafter 
only should have a hanging trellis: for, when rafters, as at 
Kennet, are only 3ft. 6 in. apart, and the vines exuberant, 
very little space is left for the admission of the sun’s rays. 

Vines trained in this way will be found to derive less 
benefit from the sun, than such as are trained on a roof ; be- 
cause, being on both sides of the trellis, those on the east 
side are only exposed to his rays when his altitude is above 
the next rafter eastward, and they are shaded when he is 
meridional with the house, from which time, those on the 
west side are exposed in their turn: consequently, vines on 
hanging trellises have just one half less sun than vines trained 
in the usual way. Hence the fruit is more liable to be injured 
from damp, in the proportion of two to one, as near as I have 
been able to learn. Such are the facts in respect of the 
house in question > whether they apply equally to those of less 
dimensions, and having roofs forming a very acute angle, 
shall be happy to know through the pages of your useful 
Magazine. 

I may notice the kinds of vines subjected to trial on the 
hanging trellis: they were Black Hamburgh, Black Fron- 
tignac, White Muscadine, Muscat of Alexandria, and Black 
Gibraltar of Scotland, which is the Esperione of England. Of 
these, the first two were common to both divisions of the 
house; but, on the new trellis, they were greatly deteriorated 
both in the colour and flavour of the fruit, and which corro- 
borates the unfavourable opinion I have formed on reflection 
of what has come under my own observation. 

In many instances where the hanging trellises are used, the 
vines have been half stripped of their leaves to admit light; in 
which case, the trees and their fruit bear a resemblance to © 
gooseberry bushes and gooseberries which have yielded to 
the ravages of caterpillars! Every body knows how fruit 
treated in this way tastes. 


Profits of Planting. 409 


At the time the alteration was made, I had the care of the 
house under my father, who inspected the trellis at Balcarras, 
previous to its adoption. I have leave from him to say, he 
entirely disapproves of the plan, after four years’ experience. 
Some ornamental plants, such as camellias, oranges, &c., 
were found to thrive better after the alteration than before : 
no great thing in its favour. Vines were planted and trained 
to a trellis on the back wall, but did not succeed, owing to 
their too great distance from the roof. 

I remain, dear Sir, &c. 
Lxperimental Garden, Warriston, JAMES BARNET. 
December 14. 1827. 


Art. VI. On planting Timber Trees, with an Estimate of 
the Produce and Profits of an Acre of Black Italian Poplar, 
Populus acladésca (a, priv. kladeske, a little twig; branches 
nearly destitute of twigs), Lind. By C. F. W., of _azeley, 
Staffordshire. . 

Sir, , 

I am induced to send you the following remarks, from 
having lately seen a paragraph in one of the newspapers, 
stating that the amount of duty paid on fir, oak, and other 
timber, for the year ending January 5. 1826, was upwards of 
a million, and annually increasing ! 

Considering how much the planting of timber in this 
country might be extended, it is matter of astonishment that 
we are so much dependent on America and Northern Europe 
for a supply of that valuable and necessary article. I do not 
think we can expect to grow any quantity of timber for ex- 
portation, but our extensive wastes and forest lands, under 
proper management, might certainly be made to produce 
enough for our own consumption, without the least injury to 
agriculture. ‘There are, I may venture to affirm, thousands 
of acres of waste land in England, which, im their present 
state, are of little or no value to their possessors, but which, 
if planted with suitable kinds of forest trees, would bring in 
several pounds per acre annually. Many kinds of trees, as 
the Scotch pine, larch, alder, willow, and several others, will 
flourish on soils fit for no purposes of husbandry whatever. 
The following statement will show the advantage to be derived 
from planting an acre of poor soil with Black Italian Poplars, 
Populus acladésca, Lind. : — 


410 The Athenian Poplar. 


2) ist, d. 
Digging, trenching, and planting Poplar cuttings - = 15 .0..6 
Compound interest on 15/. for thirty years, at 5 per cent. 65 16 0 
Rent, 30 years, at 20s. per acre, with interest at 5 per cent. 66 18 6 

£145 14 6 


es 


At the end of thirty years there will remain, allowing for 
thinnings, 500 trees, containing on an average 20 ft. of 
timber each, which is worth at least 1s. 6d. per foot, making 
the value of the trees 30s. each; but suppose them worth 
only 20s. each, then there remains 354/. 5s. 6d. profit, or 
nearly seven times the value of the land, reckoning it worth 
50/. per acre ; : 

The Lombardy Poplar is the more valuable for timber, but 
the Black Italian is the quicker grower : either sort will grow 
freely from cuttings of one year old shoots. ; 

If you think the above worthy a place in your excellent 
Magazine, I shall feel much obliged by your inserting it. 

I am, Sir, &c. C. F. W. 
Fazely, Staffordshire, Nov. 4. 1826. 


Arr. VII. On the Athenian Poplar, Populus greca as a 
Timber Tree. By Joun H. Moceriner, Esq., of Wood- 
field. 


Sir, 

READING, many years ago, in the first part of the fifth 
volume of The Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical 
Society of Manchester, an account of a tree, by Charles White, 
Esq. F.R.S., which interested me exceedingly, I endeavoured 
to procure some plants of the kind, called by Mr. White the 
Athenian Poplar, Populus gree‘ca, (foliis cordatis, glabris, basi 
glandulosis, remote crenatis; petiolis compressis ; ramis tere- 
tibus: leaves heart-shaped, smooth, with glands at the base, 
remotely notched ; foot-stalks compressed ; branches cylindri- 
cal,) of many of the nurserymen in and about town, without 
success. About twelve years since, however, I became pos- 
sessed of a few trees of this sort, the original of which came, 
I believe, from Alnwick. It not being to be propagated by cut- 
tings, or at least not with any certainty, it was some time before 
I could much increase the number of my plants. This having 
now succeeded in doing, and having also many trees becoming 
of considerable size, besides having sent a number to various 
friends in different parts of the country, and being now also 


The Athenian Poplar. 41L 


in a situation to plant this Athenian Poplar largely, I am 
anxious to know of those who have older trees of the same 
sort, whether, as a useful timber tree, its qualities, in their 
actual experience, rank it as high as Mr. White predicates. 
In the paper I refer to, the Athenian Poplar is said to be a 
native of the islands of the Archipelago, the first of which 
was cultivated by Hugh, Duke of Northumberland, in the 
year 1779. ‘* Perhaps,” says the writer, ‘ there is no deci- 
duous tree so beautiful, or so proper for pleasure grounds 
intended for ornament and shade, having a fine upright stem, 
the branches well disposed, the bark smooth and of a silvery 
hue, resembling satin wood. The leaves, which are of alight 
green, are produced very early in the spring, and are retained 
on the tree longer than on any deciduous tree in this country, 
not falling off till late in the autumn ; they are never blighted 
nor infested with insects, nor does it lose a leaf during the 
whole summer. It is of quicker growth in dry upland, than 
any tree we are acquainted with in this climate.” ‘The writer 
then mentions that there are two sorts, the one (grafted) of 
little value, and concludes by stating that “the other has made 
a rapid progress, being at least 51 feet high, and 2 ft. 9 in. in 
girth,” or, as I conclude, in circumference. As an ornamental 
tree, my own experience is confirmatory of nearly the whole 
of Mr. White’s statement. Of its growth in dry upland 
situations, as far as I have been acquainted with it, I cannot 
speak with equal praise; and I should, without the least in- 
tention of depreciating his account, or the real value of the 
tree in this respect, suspect that the general term of “ about 
twelve years,” as the period of the very remarkable growth 
mentioned by him, if strictly enquired into, would, in point of 
fact, turn out to be nearer fifteen. I have this day measured 
a number of my Athenian Poplars, growing in dry upland 
situations, but in good healthy friable soils, several of the 
largest of which measure, at 3 {t. from the ground, but 12 in. 
in circumference, and 35 ft. in height; these (from positive 
reference to written records made at the time) were planted in 
the winter of 1817-18. To enable a more correct estimate 
of the growth of this tree to be formed, I cought also to add, 
that mine now referred to are planted on an elevation exceed- 
ing 500 ft. above the level of the sea, though in sheltered 
situations: My trees were frem 4 to 5 ft. high when planted 
out, so that they have averaged shoots of 3 ft. yearly, from 
the date of their being planted ; a growth which but few ex- 
perienced planters would complain of, but which being well 


412 Growing Timber Trees with Farm Produce. 


satisfied with myself, my object now is to ascertain whether 
this tree be worth cultivating on an extensive scale for the sake 
of its timber; and if, amongst your numerous correspondents, 
some one or more in the neighbourhood of Alnwick, of Man- 
chester, or elsewhere, would, through the medium of your 
most useful publication, give us the best information in their 
power, it might be conferring a service on the public, but 
would certainly oblige, ie 
Sir, yours, truly, 

Woodfield, Monmouthshire, Joun H. Mocenriper. 

December 4. 18277. 


Arr. VIII An Attempt to show how Timber Trees may be 
cultivated conjgintly with Farm Produce. By W. M. of 
Argyleshire. 

Sir, 

I susmir to your consideration a mode of increasing the 
plantation of the more valuable sorts of timber in good soil, 
and improving arable land, without very greatly interfering with 
the average return of farm produce. From various and fre- 
quently repeated experiments, on a small scale, I think it is 
fully corroborated, that if our better quality of land were 
planted with trees, it would return at some distant period, say 
from sixty to eighty years, as great a profit as the same land 
would do under a system of common farm management; but 
as these experiments have been on a small scale, such as or- 
namental belts about the mansion-house, &c., they have gene- 
rally been looked on with indifference by the more exten- 
sive planter, and with the idea of the insuperable expense of 
labour and manure. Mr. Withers has already published a 
book (reviewed Gard. Mag., vol. ii. p.’75.), showing the great 
advantage of treating trees as any other vegetables, with a 
very small quantity of manure and hoe culture during the 
early stages of growth. This forms the basis of the mode I 
am to suggest, but would introduce the horse hoe and drill 
crops, in order to remunerate the cultivator, by an annual re- 
turn of agricultural produce. ‘The more unwieldy apparatus 
of the horse-hoe husbandry would require much greater dis- 
tances than are at present, I think very uselessly and extrava- 
gantly, adopted, for the double purpose of procuring shelter, 
and increasing the number of chances of having trees. 


Growing Timber Trees with Farm Produce. 413 


- Having laid outa field for face ni 


the purpose of planting trees aS 


eS 


152 


water furrow be ploughed out 
= as deep as possible (fig. 151.); 
then place manure in it in the 
“same way as in a turnip or 
potato drill ( fg. 152.); next gather in three furrows on each 
side, gathering the summit of | 
the ridges as high as possible 


(fig. 153.), the object being Wwe 
to place the manure deep, tid i 
cover it over with a good deal 
of well pulverised surface soil. The principal trees are then 
to be put in, sloping from the 
most exposed direction of the 
wind, and cut over as thorns 
are, if the planting is com- 
menced in the winter, to pre- 
vent windwaving (fg. 153.). 
The cropping ridges are now crown and furrow reversed, and 
the second spring, a row of ; 
quick-growing nurse plants is 
introduced on each side of the 
principal trees. (jg. 154.) 
The fourth year half of the 


t. ridges, after fal ino \\ ~~ 2 
ogre en It every thd 


155 


ing the nurse plants till after the first year is, that I allow the 
more free use of the horse hoe 
while it is of most use. By 
placing the plants as recom-. 
mended, it causes the first 
branch, which is afterwards to 
become the main stem, to rise 
to the blast (7g. 156.), and by 
backing up the ridgelet well 
before winter sets in, wind- 
waving is avoided, by which, 
when it takes place, water is admitted to destroy the roots. 

If the supply of manure is sufficient for filling the whole 
drill longitudinally, it may be planted with tree plants a foot 
distant, the best of these being retained at certain distances, and 


414 Dyer’s Retrocoupling Bee-bowes. 


the others used for future plantations, and repairing any de- 
ficiencies, should these occur; or, what is better, the trees 
may be planted at 12 ft., and the intervening space be planted 
with white beet, potatoes, or turnips. If, on the other 
hand, the quantity of manure should be small, a little may be 
placed at every 12 or 15 ft., where the tree is afterwards to 
grow, and the intervening space hoed, or cropped, if it will bear 
any thing. : 

I would almost venture planting a large field of very indif- 
ferent ground in an exposed situation on this principle, and I 
think with every prospect of success. The expense of fences 
would be saved in a great degree, compared with enclosing a 
park with a belt, and I think the cropping might be carried on 
for years, and when in full heart, and the trees approach too 
closely for the proper ripening of grain crops, the whole might 
be laid down in very rich meadow or pasture, whenever the ~ 
cattle would not injure the trees. I intend, as soon as I can 
regain possession of a piece of land, to try the experiment; 
and. were it not for overturning and altering the shape of my 
present home farm, I would commence forthwith on a pretty 
large scale. The distances may be considered great, but the 
comparatively few trees will be more easily attended to, and if 
you look at the distances between trees in a well trained and 
thinned forest, from 30 to 40 ft. between each tree would be 
found close enough, and then the ground can be longer cul- 
tivated with grain crops. Yours, &c. 

Argyleshire, July 25. 1827. W. M. 


Art. IX. Description and Use of Dyer’s Retrocoupling Bee- 
boxes. By Mr. C. Hare Jessop, Nurseryman, Chelten- 
ham. 


TuesE boxes were invented by a shoemaker of a village in 
this neighbourhood, of the name of Dyer, about half a century 
ago, but not, as far as I know, used by any one but myself. 
I adopted them twelve years ago, and consider them superior 
to every other, except the Polish hive. I have paid a good 
deal of attention to bees, and have always had a tolerable 
apiary in my nursery. 

Dyer’s hive (fig. 157.) consists of two deal boxes of exactly 
the same size (a), outside height 10 in., breadth 11 in. in every 
way, inside exactly square. ‘The top front and two sides 
should be an inch thick, the back half an inch. The back (6) has 


Dyer’s Retrocoupling Bee-boxes. 415 


an opening at top (c), and another at bottom (d), for the bees 
to communicate with the other box (¢), which is exactly of the 


157 


a 


| 7 | 
ignig 
{NN 


We 


Ly g 


same dimensions, only without the upper opening of communi- 
cation in the back, but with an entrance for the bees there, 
The boxes are held together by three iron staples (g), one on 
the top, and one on each side, and each box las a pane of 
glass, covered with a sliding shutter (4), for the purpose of 
observing the bees when at work; four cross sticks may be 
put in each box in the usual manner for the attachment of 
the combs. ‘The contents of each box are about 23 gals., so 
that the two together (a,e) are about the size of a common 
straw bee-hive. A ring is fixed on the top of each box for 
the convenience of carrying or hanging up, when out of use. 
If you have ever so many boxes, make them all of one dimen- 
sion, and then any two will fit together. ‘The boxes should 
stand upon a deal board not more than half an inch thick, as 
wide as the boxes, and 24 ft. in length. When only one box 
is used, there is a loose board of half an inch thick (4) applied 
to the side of communication, and made fast to it by the sta- 
_ples already mentioned (g), one end of which fits into the 
holes in the box, and the other clips the edge of the board. 

When only one box has been used, and it is desired to add 
a second, remove this board, and thrust in a sheet of tin (/) 
between this and the box to prevent the bees from coming out. 
Then place the back of the empty box close against the sheet 
of tin, withdraw the tin, and make fast the two boxes with the 
three staples ; then stopping the doorway of the full box, turn 
both round, so that the full one may stand where the empty 
one stood before. 

The reason why the boxes ought to stand upon a thin board 
that is movable, is because the bees will fasten the board to 
the boxes with a strong cement, so that whenever you lift the 
boxes you will lift up the board likewise. If it be a very large 


416 Dyer’s Retrocoupling Bee-boxes, 


swarm when put in, both the boxes may be used at first; if 
not, one will be sufficient. In a good season for honey the back- 
ward box will be cemented to the board in about two months 
from its first establishment, and when so it is a proper time 
to take the backward box away. In proceeding to do this, in 
the first place draw out the staples, and with a thin knife cut 
through the cement that fastens the boxes together, and to the 
box on which they stand. Then thrust in your piece of tin be- 
tween the boxes, so that not one bee may pass from one box to 
the other. Let them stand quite separated full half an hour, 
and then inspect them at the glass windows; if the bees are in 
a great hurry and confusion in the back box and quiet in the 
vine, you are so far right, and the queen is in safety ; but if 
otherwise, the operation has not béen successfully performed ; 
the tin must be drawn back again, and the boxes made fast as 
before, letting them stand nine or ten days longer, before you 
make any attempt to take it awayagain. But, if the operation 
has been successfully performed, open the door of the back 
box to let the queen’s prisoners come forth; for the hurry and 
confusion of the bees is owing to their having lost their sove- 
reign. ‘The bees let loose at the back door will come forth im 
oreat haste, forty or fifty taking wing at a time, in a kind of 
wild flutter, quite different from the appearance they have 
when going to labour. No sooner do they see their fellows at 
the front door quiet at work, but they enter boldly, as usual. 
Now, if this operation be performed about midsummer, the 
bees will fill another box, which you must immediately join to 
the other as before; but, if later in the season, and you take 
only the half-filled box, then join the loose board, and leave 
the bees with only one box. Observe always when a fresh 
box is given to stop the door of the full one, and turn the- 
boxes so that the empty one may stand in front, for they will 
fill the backward one with honey first ; besides, the young are 
always deposited quite near the front. It is needless to state 
that, by the use of these boxes, there can never be any occa- 
sion to kill the bees, and that in a fine season much more 
honey may be obtained than from the common straw hive. 

I shall conclude by noticing an opinion which I consider. 
erroneous, though believed by 1 many, viz. that any place may 
be overstocked with bees as well as with cattle. From long 
experience I well know that, if there were but one stock of 
bees in a large parish, and the season proved unfavourable, 
they would be poor; on the other hand, if there were one 
hundred colonies in a small village, and the season good, all 
the swarms that came in proper time would be rich. : 


Protecting Crops in Frames. | 417 


Honey and wax, taken where the bees are suffocated with 
fire and brimstone, are of a quality much inferior to those 
obtained by the other mode. This practice, which may be 
truly called diabolical, and must have been taken from the 
idea of the infernal regions, need never be resorted to by 
those who will adopt Dyer’ s bee-boxes, or the Pasieka, and, I 
trust, the progressive refinement of the age will soon lead to 
so desirable a result. I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

C. Hate Jessop. 


We have sent the boxes to Wear’s manufactory, No. 369. 
Oxford Street, where they will in future be manufactured for 
sale. The Pasieka, or log hive of Poland, is also manufac- 
tured there. We should be glad to know if any of our cor- 
respondents have tried the log hive (Encyc. of Gard., § 1738.), 
and how they like it. Dyer’s hive may be compared with 
Dr. Hewison’s. (Encyc. of Gard., § 1744.) — Cond. 


Arr. X. An Account of a new and effectual Method of pro- 
tecting early forced Crops, in Frames, during the Winter and 
Spring Months. By Mr. E. M. Marner, formerly Gar- 
dener at Old Baseford, Nottingham. 

Six, 

BEING at present out of place, and having unfortunately 
plenty of spare time, I beg leave to submit to your notice a 
new method of covering hot-bed frames, which I have prac- 
tised with much success. I need not say that we have often 
difficulty in defending our first crops of cucumbers, &c., in 
severe frosty weather, and, notwithstanding our utmost care 
with mats, hay, &c., are often disappointed in our hope, on 
perceiving that our “slentis have received a check, when we 
trusted they were safely covered up. Reflecting on this cir- 
cumstance, it occurred to me that we erred in laying the 
covering too closely to the glass; this allowing the heat to 
pass too easily through all the covering so compactly laid on. 
As a remedy, it Senne me, that if The covering, whatever it 
might be, were supported above, and at some distance from 
the glass, it would be more effectual for my purpose; because 
an intermediate volume of air, acting as a non-conductor of 
heat, would be interposed as a barrier against either the descent 
of cold air, or the escape of heat from the interior of the bed. 

For this purpose, I had ledges nailed to the ends of my 
frames, Gin. higher than the surface of the lights: these ledges 
projected several inches beyond the frame, both at back and 

Vou. III. — No. 12. EE 


418 * Awning for a Tulip Bed. 


front: in these projecting ends notches were cut, to receive 
ledges of similar scantling, at back and front; and, when so 
placed, all were of equal height (6 in.) above the surface of the 
glass, as above mentioned. In the back and front ledges 
(which for convenience were movable) notches were cut oppo- 
site to each other, and at suitable distances, to receive cross 
bearing strips, dovetailed at the ends to fit into the notches on 
the back and front ledges. On this raised skeleton frame is 
Jaid the covering, sufficiently thick according to the weather, 
and properly fastened on. 

The security of the plants, under such disposed covering, is 
most complete, has given great satisfaction and credit to my- 
self, and been highly approved, and I believe followed, by all 
who have come to a knowledge of it. I fear you will not be 
able to comprehend the rough sketch I herewith send; but 
my description cannot be mistaken. It is only necessary to 
add that the back and front ledges should fit closely to the 
frame, and cover the opening betwixt the lights and the 
covering; and, as the side styles of the lights are generally 
longer than the width of the frame, the ledges of the skeleton 
frame must be notched to receive them. Iam, Sir, &c. 

Epwin MarrHew Matuer. 
Lewis's Place, Bloomsgrove Street, near 
Nottingham, Dec. 2. 1827. 


Art. XI. Description of an Awning for a Tulip Bed, and 
also of the Flower Stage in Use by the Lancaster Horticul- 
tural Society. By Mr. Maruras Saut, of Lancaster. 

Sir, 
THE inelegant and sometimes clumsy manner, in which 

florists shade or shelter their tulip beds from the sun or rain, 
has frequently displeased me, and I have littie doubt it has 
deterred some amateurs from the culture of one of our finest 
flowers. ‘The awning for tulips and other flowers, ficured and 
described in the Floris?’s Directory (Encye. of Gard., § 6234.), 
is too expensive for general use, and the mode of. covering 
with hoops net much higher than the summits of the flowers, 
precludes the florist from almost all enjoyment. I send you 
herewith a design for an awning calculated for a tulip, hya- 
cinth, auricula, or carnation bed, 9 ft. long and 4 ft. broad, 
upon a very simple plan, not expensive, and not apt to go 
out of order. 


Awning for a Tulip Bed. 419 


The principle on which this awning is let down or rolled 
up is that of the common roller window blind; the difference 
being that here two blinds are let down and rolled up at the 
same time. The structure bis uy 
which supports this double ao 
blind consists of four posts 
(fig. 158.,a, a, a, a), which rest 
on the ground, are joined at 
top by a frame (6), and at each 
end by a semicircular narrow |{ ae 
board (c). The rollertowhich “* = 
the canvass is fixed (d) works ile 
into these two boards, by means of a pulley and line at one 
end. (2)... 

The canvass used should be such as will keep out rain, 
when stretched in a sloping position. Having been sewed to- 
gether of the proper length and width, it should be laid on the 
roller, so as to reach the ground on both sides of the frame: 
it may then be nailed on the roller; a slip of wood, or, better, 
a rod roller or strip of lead, being nailed along its lower edges; 
and it is then fit for use. 

The flower show of the Lancaster Horticultural Society is 
held in the National School here, and I now send you a 
plan and description of the arrangements which were adopted 
on the Ist of May last. ‘The workmen commenced fitting up 
the stage and tables early in the morning, and had finished 
their work by eight o’clock, when the door was opened for the 
admission of the competition flowers. ‘These were received at 
the table or counter placed close to the entrance (jig. 159. a), 
and were carried forward immediately by some of the com- 
arr zy Mittee, to the 
% ~ fil stage (0), and 

HY placed in their 
| proper places. 
At 11 o’clock 
the door was 
closed, and no 
i] one permitted 
| to be in the 

’ room, except 

the committee and the judge, who then commenced selecting 

from the first class of competition flowers a quantity of the 

finest specimens, and had them removed to a side table (c), 

where they were properly examined, the best placed in a line, 

and the rest returned to the stage again. ‘This operation was 
EE 2 


420 Hower Stage of Lancaster Horticultural Society. 


repeated till the whole were gone through. ‘Then the labels 
were opened, and the clerk, who sat at one end (d) of the 
side table, wrote down the name of the owner, and the name 
of the flower, with the prize adjudged, on a card, which was 
then tied to the plant, and the plants were next placed on the 
prize table for public inspection. 

There were fifty prizes on the prize table at this show, and 
a great many plants in pots, and bouquets, on the show table 
and the other tables. At ten minutes past ten o’clock, every 
thing being completed, the door was opened, and the military 
band entered in full uniform, and took the place allotted for 
them (/) on the right hand. The room was soon filled with 
the best company of the place, who were highly gratified with 
the whole. It was an open show, free to all the growers in 
the country, and the flowers were consequently very nume- 
rous and very fine. _ 

The exhibition closed at four o’clock, when the owners 
commenced removing their dif- 
ferent plants; by six o’clock the 
whole were removed, and by 
eight o’clock the school was in 
the state in which it had been at 
the same hour the evening before. 

I shall only notice farther, that 
the stage (fig. 160.) consists of 
several shelves (2, ¢), the lowest 
of which is 1 ft. 2 in. in breadth, 
the others 6 in., and the rise of 
each shelf is 3 in. A screen of 
black cloth, 4 ft. high, extends 
along the centre over, and an- 
other of the same width under, 
the stage, to prevent the discord- 
ant effects of cross lights. The 
shelves of the show table are 
painted black, those of the prize 
table covered with green baize. 
So many well-grown plants, with 
leaves, stems, and flowers different from the ordinary vegeta- 
tion of the country, thus elegantly arranged, produce a vivid 
impression on the minds of the spectators; and it has been 
observed, that almost every exhibition makes one or two addi- 
tional converts to botany and horticulture. 

I am, Sir, yours, &c. 
Lancaster, May 16. 1827. Maruias Sau. 


Mode of growing Prize Gooseberries. 421 


Art. XII. On training and managing the Gooseberry, with a 
view to grow Fruit for Prize Exhibitions. By Mr. Marutas 
SAvL, Ge Lancaster. 


Sir, 
T wave sent you a specimen of the plan of training the 162 
gooseberry trees, as adopted by those growers ‘who f 
161 wish to have large and heavy fruit for the prize- 
shows. As all the fruit grow from the underside of 
the branches, the plan adopted for first putting the 
tree in a training state is to have a few hooked 
sticks (fig.161. y and forked sticks (fig. 162.), the 
former to hold down the branches that are inclined 
to grow upwards, and the latter to support those 
which are inclined to grow downwards. ‘The plant 
herewith sent (fig. 163.) has been trained by such 
sticks. It consists of three shoots spreading regu- 
larly, and nearly horizontally, outwards. Next 
autumn these three shoots will have produced a number of 
side shoots, most of which may Buy 165 
PUL 
be shortened to one eye, and 
the others reduced to one half $% 
of their, length. No shoots 
should be left either at the 
origin or the extremities of < SS % 
the branches, but only at the 
sides; the fewer the number | 
of shoots, and the younger as! 
Lf « 


the tree, the larger will be the , Zan 
fruit. A Gey iy bff yaw 


At the next pruning season, viz. November, the tree will con- 
sist of the three principal shoots, each bearing two young shoots 
shortened to about 7 in. of their length ; these last, in the suc- 
ceeding year’s pruning, are to be left with two shoots only of 
new wood ; ; all other shoots are to be closely cut out; and, in 
leaving the young shoots for bearing, regard must be had to 
keep the whole in a regular and handsome form. 

In all following years, the system of pruning and thinning 
which I particular ly recommend, is to keep a moderate 
and constant supply of strong healthy y young shoots, from 
which alone can be expected lar ee and fine fruit; and, when- 
ever the extremities grow beyond the proper bounds, such 
branches should be cut back, so as to keep the tree in a com- 
pact form, and furnished sufficiently, though rather thinly, 
with new bearing wood: for large fruit cannot be expected if 

EE 3 


422 Mode of growing Prize Gooseberries. 


the tree is too much crowded with old and young wood; be- 
cause the fruit should have, as much as possible, a full shane 
of the strength of the tree. 

And it is “hot only to the branches and top of the tree, that 
the care of those who wish to excel in the cultivation of the 
gooseberry must be directed; they must pay attention to the 
roots also, as it is necessary they should be pruned every two 
or three years. When a root, therefore, has extended too 
far from the stem, let it be uncovered, and all the strongest 
leaders shortened back nearly one half of their length, and 
covered in with fresh marly loam. This will cause new and 
more active roots to be formed nearer the stem, and give the 
whole tree new vigour. 

I have taken some pains to procure the best information on 
this subject; and, from my own knowledge and observation, I 
am certain that a suitable soil is every thing for the success- 
ful cultivation of the gooseberry. Were I to choose a situation 
for a gooseberry garden, it should be such as I have seen, 
viz. a deep, teh: marly loam, moderately moist, and at the 
bottom of a sheltering hill. I am now preparing a soil of the 
above qualities, and manure, for planting my most valuable 
sorts in, and, like all the best growers hereabout, take much 
care in mixing the compost ; surrounding the plants with 
trenches of manure for the points of the roots to strike into ; 
and making round the stem of each plant a basin, to te 
mulched or manured as I may think necessary, for the purpose 
of watering in the summer. 

Allow me to inform you that the Warrington, though a 
good fruit, is no longer at the top of our list. We have several 
far superior, as the Crown Bob, and the Lion, of which I 
have sent you a small pot, preserved as jam, in order that you 
may judge of them yourself, and be satisfied that they are 
equally serviceable as a culinary or as a table fruit. 

In the gooseberry shows of this and other counties, I may 
also inform you that the heaviest fruit last summer was that 
called the Roaring Lion, which weighed 27 dwts. 7 grs. In 
Gloucestershire, the largest were ihe Lion, Chins and 
Huntsman, each weighing 27 dwts.; the heaviest yellow some- 
what more; the lar west Ww white, the Eagle, weighed nearly 25, 
and the Reawiect green above 21 dwts. I am, Sir, &e. 


Marutas Savt. 
Sullyard Street, Lancaster, Dec. 1. 1827. 


Our readers are under considerable obligations to Mr. Saul, 
for the trouble he has taken in inspecting a number of the 


Atkinson’s Experiments on heating by hot Water. 428 


gardens of the best growers about Lancaster, in order to ob- 
ain informaticn on this subject for the use of the Gardener’s 
Magazine. One thing practised by one of the cultivators he 
visited deserves a uHeE: in planting cuttings, this cultivator 
ties a little moss round the lower part of the cutting, and this 
moss is said to cause it to strike stronger roots. ihe Saul 
states, also, that the cultivation of the gooseberry, among the 
most successful growers, is in a way of progressive improve- 
ment. — J. M., for Cond. 


Art. XIII. Some Account of the Experiments made by Wil- 
liam Atkinson, Esq. FHS. which led to the Heating of 
Fot-houses by hot Water. By Mr. Joun Barrow, Manu- 
facturing Smith. 


Sir, 

As I find the heating of forcing-houses with hot water is 
rapidly coming into use, and as I hear that different persons 
not entitled to it are claiming the invention, perhaps some 
account of the discovery, as far as I am acquainted with it, 
may not be uninteresting. 

In the early part of the year 1822, Mr. Atkinson, architect, 
of Grove End, mentioned to me an idea that he had of heat- 
ing forcing-houses with hot water, to flow in metal pipes, 
which he then explained by a sketch in pencil, and informed 
me that what led him to think it would answer, was an ex- 
periment he had seen made by the late Count Rumford, 
about the year 1799, which proved that water is not a con- 
ductor of heat, or that one particle of water will not give off 
its heat by coming in contact with another; that, in heat- 
ing water, the bottom of a boiler receiving its heat from the 
combustion of the fuel underneath, the particles of water re- 
ceive their heat in succession as they come in contact with the 
bottom of the boiler, and, as they become heated, immedi- 
diately ascend to the surface, without giving off heat to the 
cold particles they pass through in ascending; and as the hot 
particles ascend the cold descend, till the whole mass is 
heated, and goes off in steam.* (See Count Rumford’s Es- 
says, vol. ii.) 

* The fallacy of Count Rumford’s opinions regarding the non-conduct- 
ing power of fluids, was experimentally proved both by Dr. Thomas Thom- 
son and by the late Mr. William Nicholson; they heated fluids by applying 
heat at the upper surface only. (Nicholson’s Philos. Journal, 8vo series.) 
Water heats, however, much more rapidly from below. — Cond. 

EE 4 


424 Atkinson's Experiments on heating by hot Water. 


From the tendency of hot water to rise to the surface, and 
to descend in cooling, Mr. Atkinson conceived that it would 
travel to a certain extent horizontally, by having a pipe at 
the top of a boiler for the hot water to run along from, and 
another underneath to return the water in cooling to ne bot- 
tom of the boiler. 

The annexed figure’ (jig. 164.) was explained to me as 
follows: — a is supposed to be a boiler fixed in brickwork at 


the end or middle of a house; 6, the upper pipe for conduct- 
ing the hot water from the boils to the reservoir (d); c, the 
lower pipe for conducting the cooling water from the reser- 
voir (d) back again to the boiler (a) to Y be reheated ; d, a metal 
reservoir at che extreme end of the house; or, eed of such 
a reservoir, the two pipes may be connected with an elbow or 
metal box, as shown by e@ 

It was supposed that water heated in the boiler (a) would 
flow along the upper pipe (0) to the reservoir (d), and in cool- 
ing would return from d back to the bottom of the boiler (a) 
through the lower pipe (c). 

At the time this was explained to me, it was settled that I 
should make a tin model to try the experiment, but Mr. At- 
kinson being otherwise engaged, he did not furnish me witha 
correct drawing and dimensions for the model till the latter 
end of that year (1822), when I furnished him with a model. 
The boiler and reservoir were each 6in. square, the pipes 
lin. diameter, and 6ft. long. Upon trying the model, the 
hot water flowed so rapidly from the boiler to the reservoir, 
and appeared so likely to answer, that the pipes were extended 
to 15 ft. in length, and the hot water was found to flow 
rapidly to that extent, and there was every reason to think 
that it might be extended to a considerable distance. When 
this experiment was made, the medel was tried with one pipe 
only, but that did not answer.” 


* Mr. Turner, of the Horticultural Society, and myself were present 
when this experiment was made by Mr. Atkinson, and it has since been 
proved that Mr. Turner had mentioned it to different persons. 


' Atkinson’s Experiments on heating by hot Water. 425 


In the year following the making of this experiment, Mr. 
Atkinson was introduced to the late Mr. Anthony Bacon, who 
lived then at Benham, near Newbury, where he had made 
some experiments in heating forcing-houses with hot water ; 
but no house had been heated to prove how far Mr. Bacon’s 
plan would answer. His first attempt was made at Abearnen, 
in Glamorganshire, in 1822, with a piece of large cast-iron 
pipe about 12 ft. long, closed at both ends ( fg. 165.), having 


7 


an open tube, rising from the upper part, for the reception of the 
water. A fire was made under one end of the round pipe, and 
in time the water got heated to the other end; but this was 
found not very manageable; for, if the water got over-heated, it 
boiled over from the upright tube, and, from the fire acting 
upon so small a surface only as one end of a round pipe, the 
waste of fuel was very great. ‘To remedy this, Mr. Bacon 
had a model made of tin, with one pipe only (jg. 166.), 


166 | : 
similar to Mr. Atkinson’s, except in using one pipe instead 
of two; and, after that, he had a boiler fixed in a green-house, 
similar to the model, with only one pipe. This was tried, but 
it took several hours to heat the water in the pipe moderately 
warm, and had very little effect on the temperature of the 
house; and that winter being remarkably mild, there was 
seldom occasion to use it. 

Upon Mr. Atkinson’s explaining the principle of action in 
his model, and the necessity for having two pipes to cause 
a circulation, Mr. Bacon allowed him to adopt his own plan 
for the forcing-houses at Eleot; and I was employed under 
-Mr. Atkinson’s direction, and executed the boiler and pipes 
for one vinery, which were made of strong sheet-iron, tinned, 
as being the least expensive, in case the plan should not 
answer upon a large scale. When this house had been tried 
with success, Mr. Bacon had cther houses and a pine pit done 
upon the same plan, with cast-iron boilers and pipes, which 


426  Atkinson’s Experiments on heating by hot Water. 


were executed under Mr. Atkinson’s direction. I had an 
opportunity of seeing what Mr. Bacon had done, and also 
had his model, which went to the extent of his invention; 
I have tried it on my own premises, and am quite convinced, 
as far as his invention went, it never could have been use- 
fully applied. After the hot water had been brought into use 
at Mr. Bacon’s, the same plan was adopted in a pine pit, 
about 100 ft. long, at Lord Carnarvon’s. In 1826, Mr. Atkin- 
son adopted it in a conservatory 60 ft. long, 20 ft. wide, and 
20 ft. high. The pipes are placed under the paving of the 
footpath, and the heated air let out by gratings. In this house 
the water has to run 80 ft. from the boiler to the reservoir, — 
and it completely answered in giving out sufficient heat during 
the coldest nights of last winter, and the fire was never at- 
tended to after ten o’clock in the evenings; and, in the 
severest frost, the water did not lose more than 5° of heat * 
during the night. | When there is a great extent of con- 
nected glass, as at Messrs. Loddiges’, with a proper person to 
attend the fire, it is probable that steam may be a more con- 
venient way of heating: but for private gardens, or where the 
houses are not extensive or connected, hot water has great 
advantages over steam; as, from the simplicity of the con- 
struction, it is considerably cheaper in the erection; it is not 
liable to get out of repair; and there is no risk of bursting the 
boiler or pipes, as the boiler will answer with a simple wooden 
cover, and no valves are required. No further attention is 
necessary than for a common flue fireplace; and, from the 
length of time the water is in cooling when once heated, the 
fire does not require attending during the night. It is very 
convenient for pine pits, from the pipes taking up less room 
than a flue, and would answer well for cucumber and melon 
pits, where dung is scarce. In narrow houses there have 
only been two pipes used, about 4 in. diameter, one to carry 
the hot water from the top of the boiler to the end of the 
house, and another under it to bring the water, on cooling, 
back to the bottom of the boiler. Where the houses have 
been wide, it has been considered necessary to get a greater 
surface of pipe heated; and two pipes have been used, to go 


! 


* Mr. Barrow, we think, is in error here, for it must require a very large 
mass of water to keep such a house warm all night with a loss of only 5° 
of its temperature; one pound of coal would raise the temperature of half 
a ton of water 5° (Rumford’s Essays, essay x. p.12.), and the water could 
give out no more heat in cooling than it had acquired from the fuel ; now 
we all know how small an effect one pound of coal would have in pre- 
serving the temperature of a hot-house all night. — Cond. i 


Atkinson’s prior Application of hot Water proved. 427 


from the top of the boiler, and one pipe below has been found 
sufficient for the returning pipe. When the houses are large, 
a greater number of pipes should be used, to get more heated 
sur nee: as in large houses heated with steam. Mr. Atkinson 
has suggested using square pipes, instead of round ones, for 
stoves, or, when a great heat is required, for the sake of 
getting a greater heated surface *; but as this would be more 
expensive ‘than the common round pipes, that are always to 
be had ready made, it has not yet been adopted, though there 
is no doubt but it would be an improvement. 

As I have been told, by some of the first gardeners, that 
this invention of heating with hot water will form.a new era in 
gardening, I think the person who first discovered it, and 
brought it into practical use, ought to have the credit; and, 
from all the enquiries I have been able to make, I cannot find 
that any house was ever heated so as to answer, before that 
which I executed at Mr. Bacon’s, under the direction of Mr. 
Atkinson. Iam, Sir, &c. 

Joun Barrow. 
38. East Street, Manchester Square, 
Dec. 29. 1827.) 


Art. XIV. Mr. Atkinson of Grove End proved to have been 
the First who successfully applied the Mode of heating by hot 
Water to Elot-houses. By Tuomas TrepeGoip, Esq. En- 
gineer. 


Sir, 

As the paper in your Magazine on heating forcing-houses 
‘by hot water (p. 186.), leaves it doubtful to whom the art of 
gardening is indebted for the first saccessfil application of the 
method, for the idea is by no means new, the following notices 
respecting it may be interesting : — 

During the time I was with Mr. Atkinson, as his principal 
assistant, he frequently mentioned his firm conviction that 
hot-houses might be heated with much advantage by means 


* The increase of surface will be nearly 
one fourth, for the circumference of a 
round pipe is to that of a square one as 34 
is to 4. Our ingenious correspondent, Mr. 
Saul, in the Mechanic's Magazine, vol. viii. 
p- 595., has suggested square cast-iron pipes, 
put together on the same principle as the 
ship-builders’ stoves, with small bolts and 
nuts. (fig. 167.) — Cond. 


428 Atkinson’s prior Application of hot Water proved. 


of hot water; and in 1822, shortly before I left him, he had 
a tin model made, consisting of two cubical boxes (with 
covers) *, connected by two suelll pipes, one pipe near the tops, 
the other near the bottoms, of the boxes. I assisted him to 
make the first trial of this apparatus, and was the only person 
present with him when it was made. He succeeded very soon 
in producing a current, and in heating the water in the vessel 
most distant from the fire. We differed in opinion at the 
time, respecting the precautions it would require in practice : 
it was my opinion that either a tube of safety or a safety valve 
would be necessary, as I conceived it quite possible that the 
whole of the water might be raised above the boiling point. 
How far this is possible or impossible would, however, not be 
necessary to enquire, if the attention of the gardener to the 
fire could be entirely depended on. 

Mr. Bacon was not known to Mr. Atkinson at that time, 
and, now that his house is warmed by hot water, it is of the 
same construction as the above-described model, and it was 
confessedly done under Mr. Atkinson’s direction: hence it is 
obvious enough that the successful application of hot water to 
heat forcing-houses is due to Mr. Atkinson. 

The unsuccessful or uncompleted trials are of an earlier 
date. In 1799, Mr. R. Weston proposed to heat pine stoves 
and beds by hot water (Repository of Arts, vol. xiii. p. 238. and 
314., old series), and Bosc has the following passage in his 
toe Serre (Dict. Agricult. Ency. Meth. 1816.): —* Jai été 
témoin des essais qui ont été faits au jardin du Muséum pour 
chauffer les serres, au moyen de tuyaux de cuivre remplis 
d’eau chaude qui se renouveloit sans cesse. On y a renoncé, 
-parceque cette chaleur étoit trop égale en tout temps et 
trop foible pour les temps de gelée.”+ The concluding 
remark deserves attention. 

Mr. Knight proposed a combination of the action of steam 
and hot water (Hort. Trans. ii. 334.), and I have partially put 
it in practice with considerable success. ¢ 

I did propose to conclude these notices with a few remarks 
on the proportions of hot water apparatus, as the knowledge 
of an unapplied invention prevented me doing so in my work 


* We presume that described by Mr. Barrow, p. 424. jig. 164. — Cond 

+ “I witnessed some trials, made in the garden of the Museum, of 
heating the hot-houses by means of copper pipes filled with hot water 
incessantly renewed. But that plan was given up, because the heat was 
found, in all weathers, too equal in degr ee, and too weak during frosty 
weather.” 

{ The Comte Chabanne’s method, as exemplified at Sundridge Park 
(pe 190.), is a very near approach to that suggested by Mr. Knight. — Cond. 


fiemarks on the hot Water System. 429° 


On Warming, &c.; but must defer it to some other oppor- 
tunity, on account of the length of this letter. 
Iam, Sir, &c. 
16. Grove Place, Lisson Grove, Tuomas TREDGOLD. 
January, 1827. 


Nove to the two preceding Papers. —'The impression upon 
our mind from Mr. Whale’s paper (Gard. Mag., p. 186.) 
was, that both Mr. Atkinson and Mr. Bacon had made 
the application at the same time, and that, had Mr. Atkin- 
son considered himself entitled, he would have laid claim 
to the discovery. It now appears, from Mr. Barrow’s 
paper, that Mr. Bacon’s trials or experiments were not made 
from so correct a knowledge, or at least so clear an appli- 
cation, of principles, as those of Mr. Atkinson; otherwise, we 
conceive, he would not have thought of heating the water in the 
reservoir with only one pipe. At the same time, it must be 
recollected that Mr. Bacon is no more, and therefore we wish 
to say nothing respecting his merits in this discovery, that 
we should not say were he now before us. We have heard 
that Mr. Bacon stated before the Committee for Mechanics, 
at the house of the Society of Arts, that he took the idea of 
heating hot-houses by hot water, from having seen, above 18 
years ago, a leg of mutton boiled in a horse-pail, a feat sometimes 
performed. for a wager at fairs. The breech of a gun-barrel is 
put in the fire, and the muzzle inserted into the side of the pail, 
near the bottom; and, a strong fire being kept up, the water 
in the pail is made to boil, and kept boiling, by its communi- 
cation with the heated end of the gun-barrel. Mr. Cottam, of 
Winsley Street, saw this done in a smithy near Manchester. 

It appears from the Dictionnaire Technologique, article 
Assainissement, that the idea of heating by circulating hot 
water was realised by M. Bonnemain, a French physician, 
on or before the year 1777. M. Bonnemain applied the 
art to the hatching of chickens, and occupied himself in 
this way as a matter of business, in the neighbourhood of 
Paris, during the fifteen years which preceded the commence- 
ment of the French Revolution. In the work referred to, 
under the articles Assainissement, Incubation, and Chaleur, 
will be found the details illustrated by figures. M. Bonne- 
_ main is said to have applied his mode of heating, with success, 
to the maintenance of an equal temperature in stoves and 
green-houses (Chal., p.377.), and to have recommended its 


430 Remarks on the hot Water System. 


application to hot-beds. (Incubation artificielle, p. 167.) His 
apparatus for hatching chickens by hot water is described, 
accompanied by an engraving, in Gill’s Technological Repost- 
tory for February last, and is well worthy the attention of 
engineers. It appears from anote in the Dict. Tech., that M. 
Bonnemain is still alive, upwards of 80 years of age, but in 
such poverty and distress, that government has been petitioned 
for a pittance to support him during his few remaining days. 

In the Encyclopédie Méthodique, and in the Nouveau Cours 
@ Agriculture, article Incubation, it is stated that M. Chopineau 
had also hatched chickens by hot water; but at what period 
is not mentioned. A pamphlet was published by M. Bonne- 
main on the subject, in 1816; and from this pamphlet it is 
stated that some English patents for heating, and for refining 
sugar, &c., and the different application of the hot water sys- 
tem, published in a pamphlet, and exhibited in London, by the 
Comte Chabannes, are taken. (Assainissement, p. 290. note.) 
It is probable, also, that the circulation of hot water in the 
conservatory of the Palace of Taurida, mentioned by Storch, 
in his Description of St. Petersburgh, as having been in use in 
the time of Prince Potemkin (See Encyc. of Gard., § 259.), 
was effected by some French engineer who had seen the in- 
vention of M. Bonnemain. 

The pamphlet published by the Comte Chabannes is without 
date, and not paged, but, as appears from internal evidence, it 
was written in 1819. The author states that, at his manufactory, 
No. 121. Drury Lane, “ may be seen the new mode of warming 
by a circulation of hot water ;” and also, that Nos. 36. and 37. 
Burlington Arcade, established as a depdt “ for the purpose 
of receiving orders for the manufactory, 121. Drury Lane,” are 
warmed in the same manner. A quarto plate and description 
is given, clearly illustrating this mode of heating as applied at 
the depot. In the same pamphlet Comte Chabannes states that 
*¢ conservatories, hot-houses, and hot-beds have been heated 
upon this principle with the greatest success ;” probably, al- 
luding to Sundridge Park (Gard. Mag., p. 189.) ; so that 
heating hot-houses by hot water is, at least, of ten years’ 
standing in England. That the Comte Chabannes completely 
understood the subject, appears from the following extract : — 

“ There cannot be a more perfect idea of the whole operation of the new 
patent water calorifere, than by comparing its boiler to the human heart, 
and the tubes, through which the water passes, to the blood-vessels of the 
human body. In the water caloriferes, the water is in constant movement, 
as the blood in the veins; it goes out of it by an upper tube, as the blood 


by a valve in the heart. It circulates through the house, ascends or descends 
at will, and returns into the boiler at the bottom to charge itself again with 


_ Remarks on the hot Water System. 431 


fresh caloric, as the blood ascends, descends, and passes again into the lungs 
to regain a new portion of oxygen, and recommences constantly the same 
function, of carrying heat to the extremity of the body. 

“ Description. — The fireplace is surrounded by a boiler, from the top of 
which an ascending pipe leads to a reservoir, which is filled with water, and 
placed at the upper part of the house, or anywhere above the said boiler, 
and from which a descending pipe communicates underneath the boiler, 
which may be carried in any direction. The rarefaction thus produced by the 
heat in the ascending pipe occasions a pressure from the colder water in 
the descending pipe, which establishes a perpetual circulation, and by which 
means petforms the object of carrying the caloric wherever it may be desired, 

“ This new stove is particularly recommended to all those who are 
prejudiced against the use of air heated in metal tubes in contact with fire. 
The air can thus never receive above 160° or 180° of heat, nor be in any 
way decomposed, in tubes which are heated by immersion in hot water, 
while the pleasing effect of a soft and regular heat is constantly felt. ‘The 
improvement may be added to all present stoves, so that one. fire will suf- 
fice to warm at least four rooms at the same time. The expense of fixing 
the apparatus is small, when the economy in fuel, by heating so many rooms 
from a small fire, is considered ; besides the advantages of having hot water 
in every apartment, and to get rid of the dust of a fire in a bedroom, &c. 
The same fire may also heat a bath. 

“ Any kitchen-fire to which the apparatus is attached, may warm the stair- 
cases, parlours, shops, ware-rooms, &c., in short, any number of places, 
according to the size of the fire, which will at the same time supply hot 
water for all culinary purposes, the scullery, wash-houses, &c. Conservato- 
ries, hot-houses, anid hot-beds have been heated upon this principle with 
the greatest success ; and a further advantage in the water caloriferes is 
that, according to the situation, the heat may be given either above or 
below the fire. The method of heating by circulation of hot water is 
preferable to steam in many respects: steam requires a strong fire, and to 
be always kept up, whereas very little fire is sufficient to keep up the heat 
in the water when once boiling, and to renew the caloric, which is conti- 
nually passing through the different apparatus for spreading the heat ; it is, 
therefore, much more economical,” 


After this follows the description of the manner of warm- 
ing and ventilating the depot in the Burlington Arcade, 
which was exhibited, three days in the week to show how six 
rooms on three upper floors might be warmed by hot water, 
from a boiler behind the kitchen-fire ; and three other days to 
show the “ descending effect” in warming with hot water, by 
a stove and boiler fixed on the first floor, for the purpose of 
heating the two parlours and the kitchens. In the plate illus- 
trative of these descriptions, a bath so heated is shown. 

After deploring the indifference of the public to his inven- 
tions, Comte Chabannes states his conviction, ‘ that their own 
merits will cause them, ere long, to be acknowledged; ” that 
his attention had been directed to the subject of warming and 
ventilating by an unexpected destiny (we believe, the loss of 
fortune at the Revolution); and that an active and laborious 
mind had enabled him to perfect his inventions with rapidity. 
He concludes : “ To have been in some degree useful to my 


432 Remarks on the hot Water System. 


fellow-creatures is my ambition ; to be one day accounted as 
such, would be the reward of which I am most desirous.” — 
The Comte Chabannes was ultimately ruined by his manu- 
factory in Drury Lane, and, as we are informed, returned to 
France about seven years ago. 

Thus it appears that the system of heating by hot water 
was invented at least half a century ago, and that it will add 
one to the instances frequently occurring, of an invention having 
been produced long before it was duly understood and appre- 
ciated by those to whom it was best calculated to be useful: 
that is, the horticulturists. The fact of the Comte Chabanne’s 
having applied it in houses in London, and in hot-houses in 
the country, ten years ago, will also show that, notwithstand- 
ing all the reading, research, and attention to what has been 
done or is passing in the world, — notwithstanding all that 
eagerness after improvement which is characteristic of the 
present day, —a most ingenious and useful invention has been 
displayed before us, explained, and yet totally overlooked ! 
Farther, the mode of heating by hot water being clearly of 
French origin, proves the superior science of the engineers in 
France at a comparatively early period, and ought to keep 
alive our attention to that quarter for new ideas. : 

The application of this mode of heating to baths is of some 
standing, but it is difficult to determine when it was first ap- 
plied in this way. Two interesting papers on heating water 
for baths have lately appeared ; the one by Mr. E. D. Thom- 
son, in the Philosophical Magazine, and the other in Brande’s 
Quarterly Journal. Mr. Metheley, of Frith Street, Soho, the 
inventor of a very great improvement in the construction of 
chamber grates, has recently devised a mode for heating a bath 
in any room of the house, bya pipe passing through a cistern 
of hot water at the back of the kitchen range. A fire has been 
applied in the basement story of a house to heat water con- 
nected with all the reservoirs and water-pipes in that house, 
in order to keep up the reservoirs of water to the mean tem- 
perature in the winter season, to prevent its freezing in the 
pipes, and to give a command of tepid water in the dressing- 
rooms, &c. ‘These different applications may be consulted by 
the engineer and the gardener with advantage, as they show 
how the construction of the apparatus for this mode of heat- 
ing may be varied according to circumstances. It is not so 
much by merely collecting the principles and practice of any 
single art, as by bringing the maxims and methods of other 
arts to bear upon that art which we wish to cultivate, that the 
greatest progress is to be made. — Cond. 


433 


PART IL 


REVIEWS. 


Art.I. Verhandlungen des Vereins zur Beforderung des Garten- 
baues in den Koniglich Preussischen Staaten. Transactions of 
the Society for the Advancement of Gardening in the Royal Prus- 
sian States. Part. II. completing Vol. I. Berlin. 4to. 1824. 
7 Plates. 

(Concluded from p. 318.) 


50. Ideas on Forcing-gardening, and particularly on the Forcing of 
Cherries. By M. Schulze, Court Surveyor and Royal Garden 
Director at Sans-Souci. ; 


ForcinG-GARDENING includes all the means adopted by art 
for accelerating vegetation. ‘These means are derived from 
the observation of nature, and from experiments founded on 
these observations. 

Cherry-forcing is conducted in two modes: in a movable 
structure placed over a tree, in the open garden or against a 
wall; and in a fixed structure, in which the trees are rendered 
movable by being placed in pots or boxes. ‘The latter mode 
is the better. 

Whether the structure be movable or fixed, the sashes 
should be placed nearly at right angles with the sun’s rays 
during January and February. Not only does such a position 
better admit the sun’s rays, but it allows the more rapid 
descent of moisture from the glass, both internally and exter- 
nally. 

Cherry trees, according to some, should not be planted in 
tubs or pots till the season in which they are about to be 
forced, because they will gain more strength if suffered to 
grow in the open ground ; according to others, they should be 
potted or planted in boxes a year before forcing. Success, in 
both cases, depends chiefly on careful treatment. It is certain 
that a tree or plant, in a pot or box, is more easily injured by 
neglect of watering, or by overmuch water, than a tree or 
plant in the open ground. 

Every tree destined for forcing must be prepared for that ex- 
citement by a previous period of rest. ** One must not force any 


Vou. III. — No. 12. FF 


434 Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 


tree before its natural winter sleep.” ‘To make certain that a 
tree has been put to rest before proceeding to force it, we must 
expose it for a few days to a frost of from 4° to 8° of Reau- 
mur (23° to 14° of Fahrenheit) in the open air. After this 
the tree may be brought into the forcing-house, and heat may 
be applied to it. ‘This may generally be done in the month 
of December. It sometimes happens, however, that there is 
no frost before the end of this month; and, in that case, it is 
advisable to keep the tree in the open air, and perfectly dry, 
till January, before bringing it into the forcing-house. ‘“ Dur- 
ing the last thirty years, I have made a great variety of expe- 
riments with forcing all kinds of fruit trees: the following 
one taught me a useful lesson: — I hada box made 6 ft. long, 
4 ft. broad, and 3 ft. deep; I filled it with leaves, fresh horse- 
dung, and old tan, partly for the purpose of facilitating the heat- 
ing of the house and the saving of fuel, and partly to enable 
me to expose the tops of the trees to the open air, by placing 
the pots which contained them upon the warm box, and thus 
heating their roots without forcing their tops. My object was 
to promote vegetation before waiting for the December frosts. 
After the trees had been exposed in this way for a short time, 
I shut up the house, and began lighting fires. I found, how- 
ever, that very few of the buds expanded and blossomed, and 
that most of them absolutely opened later than those in the 
open air, From this experiment I derived the very useful 
lesson, of the necessity of setting trees completely to rest 
before beginning to force them. ‘This resting of trees I dis- 
covered to be a law of nature, which, like other natural laws, 
is not to be broken with impunity.” 

Cherry-fercing may be divided into feur periods: 1. From 
the commencement to the opening of the blossom; 2. The 
blossoming season; 3. The stoning season; and 4. Irom the 
stoning to the ripening. 

1. From the Commencement of Forcing till the Blossoms begin 
to expand. — Supposing the time of commencement to be Ja- 
nuary, then, according to the principle of imitating nature, 
the temperature of the open air in March must be commenced 
with, and, towards the end of the month, the heat raised to 
the temperature of the open air in April. In cloudy weather 
rather diminish, and in clear weather rather increase, the usual 
temperature. Watering the roots of the trees once a fortnight 
will be sufficient, but the tops should. be frequently sprinkled; 
and, in order that the water which falls down may not render 
the ground too wet, every pot or box should be covered with 
a piece of oil cloth. The temperature of the water, both for 


Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society, 435 


watering the roots and the tops, should be from 67° to 68° 
Fahrenheit. Plenty of air should be given in the daytime, 
unless the weather is unusually severe: the want of abun- 
dance of fresh air at this season is one chief cause of the fly 
(dlattlaus). 

2. from the Appearance of the Blossom to tts full Expansion.— 
In the open air, the cherry blossoms in the last half of April, 
and in the first week of May; therefore, agreeably to our prin- 
ciple of imitating nature, this will give the temperature to be 
| maintained in the cherry house, during the last half of January 
and the first week of February. It may, however, be raised a 
little higher when the blossoms are completely expanded, or 
from 64° to 68° Fahr., but must afterwards be lowered to. 
56° or 51°. It has been observed that, when cherries have 
been in blossom in the open air in April, snow has fallen, and 
that the crop of cherries has, nevertheless, been very abun- 
dant. From this and various observations it appears. that,. 
though a temperature of from 64° to 74° Fahr. may be favour- 
able for the full expansion of the blossom, and the develop- 
ment of the pollen, a far less temperature is sufficient, and 
even favourable, for strengthening the incipient fruit. The 
trees cannot be sprinkled while in blossom, but an equally 
advantageous effect may be produced by watering the flues. 
To promote the setting of the fruit, shake the trees by hand, 
in imitation of the natural winds of April; and shade from the 
intense rays of the mid-day sun, by gauze covers, in imitation 
of the passing clouds of that season. ‘These gauze covers also 
prevent the accumulation of too great heat in the house, and 
check the production of the mildew and the fly (dlactlaus). No- 
thing promotes the production of the d/attlaus more than the 
sudden admission of cold fresh air, when the house is raised to 
a high temperature. ‘The Olattlaus is to be kept under by 
filling the house with the smoke of tobacco, ‘The gardener 
must not think it too much trouble to put on and take off the 
gauze covers, often several times a day, during the blossoming 
season.” 

3. From the Blossoming to the Stoning of the Fruit. — The 
setting and stoning of fruit in plants may be compared to the 
breeding of teeth in young children, being for both a critical 
period. ‘The time required, from the commencement of the 
opening to the full expansion of the blossom, is between six 
and eight days in the open air, but a longer pericd is neces- 
sary in the forcing-house. About the same length of time, 
and the same variation between the open air and the forcing- 

BF 2 


436 Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 


house, take place as to the stoning. ‘The temperature in the 
open air during that period varies from 48° to 50° Fahr., 
and the temperature in the cherry house should not exceed 
these two extremes. In the open air, rainy weather often 
occurs during the stoning period; and it has been remarked 
that rain, moisture, and cloudy weather are more favourable to 
the stoning of the cherry than dry weather. In applying 
water in the forcing-house to imitate nature, the precaution of 
placing canvass over the pots and boxes, already mentioned, 
must be resorted to, otherwise the soil would soon be rendered 
unfit for the roots. Air must be given liberally ; and, in moist 
weather, too much damp must be avoided, by the application 
of fire heat. Gauze covers will require to be as frequently 
used as during the blossoming period, and the gardener must 
never think it any trouble to put them frequently off and on. 

4. From the Stoning to the Ripening. —At Sans-Souci, in the 
open air, in 1822, the whole process, from the foliation to the 
ripening of the fruit, lasted from the last week in February till 
the 17th of June, on which day ripe cherries were gathered. 
The blossoming period of that season lasted from the 15th to 
the 24th of April. ‘The swelling of cherries in the open air, 
therefore, may be considered as taking place in the last fort- 
night of May and the first fortnight in June; and an average 
temperature prevails during that period of, in the morning, 
50°, noon, 66°, evening, 55°; and the maximum of these 
periods, 62°, 81°, and 66° Fahr. Continuing to imitate 
nature in the forcing-house, we have here given what will be 
found a suitable temperature. Showers are frequent in the 
last fortnight of May, but the weather is drier in the first. 
fortnight in June, and this also must be imitated. ‘The fre- 
quent use of the gauze shade is equally necessary. 

Thus it appears that three months and a half, from the 
first of March, are required to produce and ripen the cherry 
in the open air; if we could imitate nature, therefore, perfectly, 
by beginning on the first of January, we should have ripe 
cherries by the middle of April. It may be some proof of 
the power of art, to state that forced cherries, at Sans-Souci, 
are frequently gathered in March, and sometimes in February ; 
commencement, in the latter case, being made in December. 
To a certain extent, therefore, art can improve upon or sur- 
pass nature. . 

“‘ Tn the foregoing treatise, my chief object has been to show 
that the process of forcing is founded on a strict imitation of 
nature, and that the more perfect the imitation, the more 
perfect the articles produced.” 


Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 437 


51. Description of a horizontal Fruit Espalier, constructed in the 
Garden of Mr. Wagener, senior, at Treptow, near Berlin. By Mr. 
Counsellor Ludolf. 

A horizontal frame of latticework, 4 ft. wide and 48 ft. 
long, is fixed by posts at the height of 2 ft. from the ground, 
and peach trees are trained on it in the manner not uncommon 
in our peach houses, and some years since recommended by 
M. Noisette in the Bon Jardinier. (Encyc. of Gard., § 1580.) 
This mode of training is, under certain circumstances, very 
convenient in forcing-houses, but it has few recommendations 
for the open air, except its novelty. Those who wish to 
amuse themselves in this way, will succeed best by placing a 
low espalier against a bank of earth, facing the south, at an 
angle with the horizon of 45°. Of course, whether the espa- 
lier is horizontal or sloping, the trees must be covered every 
night while in bloom, and when the fruit is ripening, the 
labour of which alone, we should think, would counterbalance 
every other advantage. 


52. Abstract of what passed at the Meeting of the Society on the 5th 
of October, 1823. ; 

Several papers were read and ordered to be printed in the 
Transactions. Some very luxuriant hundred-leaved stocks 
(tippig bliihende centifolien-sticke); very large Napoleon pears ; 
fine double georgianas (dahlias); a gourd weighing 164lbs., 
and a turban gourd, were exhibited. 


53. An Experiment on the Application of Heath and Moor Earths 
to Plants. By the Grand-Ducal Head-Gardener, M. Bosse, of 
Oldenburg. 

Heath earth is our peat soil, and is found on surfaces abound- 
ing with common heath, Zrica vulgaris: it consists of decayed 
plants of heath, and fine white sand. Moor earth is our bog 
earth, and consists of decayed peat: some sorts of it are unfit 
. for the growth of plants; and the very best sort, which is that 
found on the surface of peat bogs or moors, requires to be 
kept in a heap, and frequently turned over, for some years 
before being used. What is called in Germany dammerde, is 
the mud of ponds more or less sandy, and used with bog 
earth in the manner of our loams. Forest earth (walderde) 
is the surface turf from a wood, well rotted, turned, and mixed: 
it is also used like our loams, and in it most American plants, 
and many others usually grown in peat and loam, will thrive 
freely. A list is given of exotic plants suitable to each of 
these earths, and to certain proportions of them. It is observed 

FF 3 


438 Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 


that a mixture of moor earth with loam is suitable for most 
tropical trees with leather-like leaves, such as Zvora, Gardénia, 
Cassia, Blétia, Ardisia, Latirus, &c. Few tropical plants with 
ligneous stems thrive in light vegetable soil or peat earth. 
Even some Cacalias, Crassulas, and other succulents, thrive 
better in sandy clay than in vegetable earth and sand, which 
is the soil suitable for most succulents. 


54. On the Culture of the Morina pérsica. By M. E. Seitz, Cura- 
tor of the Botanic Garden at Munich. 


The Morina pérsica is a beautiful green-house perennial, of 
the natural order Dipsaceze, with red and white flowers, highly 
scented, in July and August. Tournefort was the discoverer 
of this beautiful plant, in the Levant, near Erzerum, about 
1701. Though Erzerum is in the same latitude as Rome, 
yet being much higher above the level of the sea, the climate 
is colder. A great deal of snow had fallen at Erzerum in the 
night between the 2d and the 3d of July. Hence it is that 
the Morina pérsica can bear the climate of Germany with a 
little protection, during the severest weather of winter. The 
general appearance of the flower of Morina is like that of a 
thistle: its root is large, fusiform, and fleshy, very sensible of 
external injury, and in gardens very frequently dying from 
accidents of this kind. M. Seitz has cultivated it very suc- 
cessfully for ten years, by the following method : — 

The seeds must be sown in the beginning of winter, where 
they are finally to remain, it being extremely difficult to trans- 
plant the seedlings on account of their long fusiform roots. 
During the severe weather of winter, protection must be given 
from the frost, by dry litter or leaves. - By the end of April, 
or beginning of May, the seeds will begin to come through, 
when they must be kept quite clear of weeds. ‘The usual 
culture to plants of this kind, in such a state, must be given 
till the following winter, when they should be covered with 
hand-glasses or a hot-bed frame, and the glasses well covered 
with leaves or litter. On the return of mild weather in spring, 
expose the plants as before, remove decayed leaves and weeds, 
stir the soil, and in the July following some of the strongest 
plants will come into flower, and continue in that state till 
December. Proceed in the same manner through the third 
winter and spring, and in the third summer the whole of the 
plants will come into flower. Seeds should be saved, and 
fresh sowings made every year, as the plant is not easily pro- 
pagated by division, layers, or cuttings, and is besides very apt 
to die off in the winter. 


Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 439 


In England, as we are informed in Sweet’s excellent com- 
pendium, the Botanical Cultivator, the Morina is generally 
kept in the green-house, in any light rich soil, and is increased 
by dividing at the root, or by seed, 


55. On the Steck Apple, or Codlin. By M. ¥. Wiederhold, of 
Hochster. 


The apple alluded to is our Carlisle Codlin, which is said 
to be abundant in Westphalia, but not very common in 
Prussia. It is recommended to be generally cultivated, as 
being easily propagated by cuttings, as ripening in August, 
as seldom failing to bear a good crop even in bad seasons, as 
applicable to various culinary uses, not bad for the dessert, 
and as keeping six months. 


56. Observations on the Culture of the Double Georgina, Georgina 
variabilis, our Dahlia sambucifolia. By M. Fintelmann, Royal 
Gardener in the Island of Peacocks at Potsdam. 


The dahlia received about the same time two different 
names from two different botanists, unknown to each other. 
Cavanilles, who discovered the plant, dedicated it to Andrew 
Dahl, a Swedish botanist, author of a small volume of botani- 
cal observations, while Willdenow named it in memory of Dr. 
Georgi of Petersburgh. The name of Cavanilles having been 
first given, and also given by the discoverer, according to the 
etiquette of naturalists claimed to be preferred, and dahlia has 
accordingly become the general name, and is adopted in sub- 
sequent parts of the Prusstan Horticultural Transactions. 

M. Iintelmann has given a complete course of dahlia 
culture; but, as it differs little from that in general use in 
this country, we shall merely glance at his divisions of the 
subject. 

Raising from Seed.—A moderately warm dung-bed is formed 
in the beginning of March, and the seed thinly sown in leaf 
mould, in pots or boxes, and covered with the same soil, mixed 
with river sand, to the depth of half an inch. If the seeds are 
fresh, the plants will be fit to prick out early in April, and 
they should be nursed in another bed till the beginning of 
May, when they may be planted out in the open garden. 

Soil.— Any garden earth, but it must be well supplied with 
moisture. M. Fintelmann uses one part of the natural sandy 
soil from his garden, one part of soft clay, containing 10 per 
cent. of marl, and one part of rotten wood earth trom the 
carpenter’s yard. In this mixture both young and old plants 
grow vigorously. Holes, in the situations where dahlias are 

FF 4 


440 Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 


to be planted, are made 15 in. in diameter, and 15 in. in depth, 
and filled with this soil ; and in these holes, so filled, the young 
plants are turned out, or the old roots inserted. To retain the 
moisture, and protect the root from excessive heat, the surface 
is covered with moss. Liquid manure is applied two or three 
times in the course of the summer. 

Position.—Shelter from high winds is essentially necessary; 
and, where masses of them are to be planted together, the 
tallest growers must be planted farthest from the eye, and so 
as not to overtop the dwarf sorts. M. Fintelman considers 
dahlia as a particularly desirable plant for a new garden 
the or shrubbery; “ because,” says he, “ it will grow in a rich, 
moist soil, to the height of 16 ft. in two months, and yearly, 
afterwards, to the same height in the same soils, provided 
moisture and manure be abundantly supplied.” 

We notice this as being somewhat at variance with the 
experience of Mr. Smith, of the Horticultural Society’s gar- 
den, who states (Gard. Mag., p.181.) “that if it is desirable 
to have dahlias always in one situation, it is necessary to 
renew the soil, by trenching it deeply the second, and taking 
it out and replacing it the third and succeeding years.” He 
subjoins, “ it will seldom be found advisable to add manure ; 
fresh soil is all that is necessary.” We may observe, in con- 
firmation of M. Fintelmann’s experience, that dahlias have 
been grown in the flower-garden at Hylands, on the same 
soil, without trenching, manure, or fresh soil, for several 
years; and every year they have attained, though not to the 
height of 16 ft., yet to as great perfection as the dahlias of 
the Horticultural Society’s garden, or as dahlias do attain to 
in this country. This we were informed by Mr. John Smith, 
the flower-gardener at Hylands, who, like his namesake of the 
FAlorticultural Transactions, is a well-educated and most judi- 
cious young gardener. We should be sorry, indeed, if any 
one should be induced to neglect the culture of this fine au- 
tumnal flower from an idea that renewing the soil is necessary ; 
because it would not be easy to do this in extensive shrubberies, 
where the dahlia is so great an ornament. We do not mean 
to say, however, that fresh soil, which is of great advantage 
in the culture of every other plant, is not likewise of great 
advantage in the culture of the dahlia. 

** Ks lassen sich damit auch besonders Gartenbefriedigun- 
gen oder Wande decken, und die Georgingen gewahren zug- 
leich durch das mannigfaltige Farbenspiel von Schneeweiss bis 
zum dunkelsten Violett, Purpur- und Schwarzlich-Bluthroth, 
durch Schwefelgelb, Orange, und Scharlach in allen Schat- 


Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society, 441 


tirungen dem Auge einen Schonen Anblick, wenn man jede 
Farbenart besonders in Massen aufstellen kann.” 

Of this sentence we give an exact translation, for the con- 
sideration of our correspondent, Variegata. (p. 485.) 

*¢ Dahlias may also be used as screens for concealing walls 
and other fences or unsightly objects, presenting at the same 
time a beautiful spectacle to the eye by the variety of their 
colours, from snowy white to the darkest violet, purple blood- 
red and blackish blood-red, sulphur colour, orange, and scarlet, 
in all their shades, especially if we can contrive to group the 
colours in masses.” 

Propagation.— Usually by division of the roots, taking care 
to have a bud on each tuber; also from cuttings. Seeds are 
produced by the single varieties in the greatest abundance, 
and_also frequently from the double flowers. From the pro- 
geny of such seeds an endless variety is obtained, two seed- 
ling plants seldom having flowers alike. Seedlings, treated as 
before described, flower the same year in July and August. 

Use of the Dahlia. — The stalks and leaves make a whole- 
some food for pigs, sheep, and asses; they are also eaten by 
deer and cows, and they are, in a dried state, readily eaten by 
lambs and young goats. When cultivated as cattle food, 
the stalks may be cut over two or three times in one season. 
The tubers may be eaten both by men and cattle, but they 
are neither so agreeable nor so nourishing as those of the 
potato. 


57. Extracts from the Transactions of the Society at their Eleventh 
Meeting, November 2. 1823. 

The scheme of a school for gardeners (p. 92.) was laid 
before the Society, approved of, ordered to be carried into 
execution, and an extract from the statutes and plan of manage- 
ment published. 

58. Extracts from the Twelfth Meeting of the Society, held Decem- 
ber 7. 1823. 

Robinza Psetid-acacia, strongly recommended for poor 
sandy soils. 

59. Remarks on the Property and Use of the Bread-fruit, Arto- 
carpus incisa. By M. Beyrich, Gardener in Brazil. 


The uncultivated varieties of the bread-fruit bear seeds, 
but the cultivated varieties do not. When the wild fruit is 
ripe on the tree, the seeds, which are larger than almonds, 
begin to germinate, and must be planted immediately that 


442 Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society. 


they are taken out of the fruit, because, if suffered to dry, 
they will not grow. 

The bread-fruit, called Jacca, with entire leaves, Arto- 
carpus integrifolia, has round fruit from 1 ft. to 14 ft. in dia- 
meter; the flesh when ripe has a sweet mealy taste, but, being 
very inferior to the true bread-fruit, Artocérpus incisa, is 
seldom cultivated. : 

There is an undescribed species of bread-fruit, a native of 
Brazil, and found in the large forests near Rio Janeiro ; the 
fruit is from 2 to 4 ft. long, and from 6 in. to 2 ft. in diameter, 
and weighing from half'a hundred tc two hundred weight. One 
tree often bears from fifty to sixty fruit. The flesh resembles 
that of the entire-leaved bread-fruit, or Jacca, and is cut into 
slices and roasted by the natives. 


60. Some Observations on the Culture of the Pine-apple in Brazil. 
By M. Beyrich, Gardener in Brazil. 


The pine-apple, though a native of South America, is not 
found wild near Rio Janeiro, but is very abundantly cultivated 
there. As some parts of the country appear more appropriate 
for its culture than others, I shall here give a description of 
such places, as affording hints for its culture in Europe 

The pine-apple in its wild state is found near the sea-shore; 
the sand accumulated there in downs serving for its growth, 
as well as for that of most of the species of the same family. 
The place where the best pine-apples are cultivated is of a 
similar nature. In the sandy plains of Praga velha and 
Praga grande, formed by the receding of the sea, and in 
which no other plant will thrive, are the spots where the 
pine-apple thrives best. The cause of this lies evidently in 
the composition of the sand, which chiefly consists of salt, lime 
from decomposed shells, and a very little vegetable mould. 
Warmth, lime, salt, and moisture, seem therefore to be the 
principal ingredients in which the pine-apple thrives. Sand 
will take a very high and continued degree of warmth, being 
often heated by the sun so much as to scorch vegetation, and 
yet it seldom dries to a greater depth than from 8 in. to 
1ft. Sea salt is well known for its property of attracting 
the nocturnal damps, and retaining them a long time. The 
lime of the shells seems to be the principal manure, which 
has also been proved by the English here, who, by manuring | 
their pine-apples with a mixture of stamped oyster-shells with 
vegetable earth, produce very large fruit. The natural mould, 
usually slightly mixed with sand, is partly of a vegetable, and 
partly of a mineral origin. _ 


Annales de la Société d@ Horticulture de Paris. 443 


The treatment of the plants is very simple. As the fruit 
ripens.in January, the young suckers from the roots are taken 
off in April or May, and planted in the newly cleaned fields 
at a distance of from 14 to 2 ft. from each other, and the 
strongest of them produce fruit in the following year, seldom 
weighing above 3 or 4 lbs.; but those which do not fruit the 
second year, grow very large, and their fruit often weighs 
from 10 to 12 lbs. 

61. Description of Anguloa lirida, Ruiz et Pav. Orchidee. By 
Professor Link and Director Otto. 

This is an orchideous epiphyte from Brazil, with five-nerved 
leaves, a many-flowered scape, and converging petals yellow 
within and green without. It was sent from Brazil to the 
Berlin garden, in 1823, by M. Beyrich; is of easy culture in 
the stove, and may be purchased from Messrs. Loddiges. 

62. Description of a movable Forcing-house for early Forcing. 
By M. Schulze, Garden Director, &c., of Sans-Souci. 

The front. and roof are composed of glass sashes, the 
former at an angle of about 12°, and the latter at an angle of 
about 30° to the horizon. Part of the roof sloping to the 
north is opaque, and this with the back and ends is com- 
posed of boarded surfaces, with interstices of about 6 in. wide, 
filled with dry hay. ‘The other details are easily understood. 
63—65. Papers relating to prizes given and to be given, to com- 

mittees, and to other subjects of purely local interest. 


Art. Il. Annales de la Société d’ Horticulture de Paris, et Journal 
spécial de (Etat et des Progrés du Jardinage. Tom.1. Second 

' Livraison, pour Octobre, 1827. Paris. 8vo. Price in Paris for 
twelve Numbers, or one year, 15,fr.;-in London, 18 /*. 

Tuis work is arranged in four divisions: — I. Memoirs; 
II. Notices, Analyses, &c.; III. Miscellanies and News; and 
IV. Bulletin Bibliographique, or Catalogue Raisonnée of 
Books on Horticulture. 

I. Memoirs. —- 1. The first article is an account of the horti- 
cultural fete, held in the Chevalier Soulange-Bodin’s gardens 
~ at Fromont, on the 30th of August, 1827; and which, it would 
appear, is the first of a series intended, like those of the 
Chiswick garden, to be held annually. Numerous invita- 
tions were sent in the name of the Chevalier Soulange- Bodin 
and his family, which produced an attendance of from 500 to 
600 persons, who were received ina frank and natural manner, 
and were charmed by the elegant variety of the garden, the 


\ 


4:44 Annales de la Société d’ Horticulture de Paris. 


beauty of its situation and aspects, and the agreeableness of its 
promenades. The company arrived from Paris before ten 
o'clock in the morning, and by mid-day the parish church of 
Ris was full, when a solemn mass was executed, the music of 
which was composed for the occasion. In this mass, some of 
the first singers of Paris, whose names are given, assisted in 
the musical part. After the mass, the members of the Hor- 
ticultural Society, with their president, the Vicomte Héricart 
de Thury, at their head, and the other officers of the society, 
went through M. Soulange-Bodin’s extensive establishment 
of hot-houses, and at last found themselves in the middle of a 
circle of ladies, seated under an awning, while their ears were 
impressed with a music which conveyed a sentiment emi- 
nently religious, and which seemed to be the service of the 
church of nature, for the purpose of expressing the gratitude 
of man towards the Author of so many wonders. Soon after- 
wards the spectators separated in little winding columns, along 
the serpentine paths of the garden, towards a new fountain, 
which played that day for the first time, and which was dedi- 
cated by the proprietor of Fromont to “ Friendship and the 
Arts,” in the person of M. Plantade, an eminent musical 
composer. Here another piece of music was executed. 
After amusing themselves for some time in different parts of 
the garden, a vast tent was opened, in which the company sat 
down, 200 at a time, to a banquet vraiment horticultural ; that 
is, of delicate cheer and excellent wines, interspersed with 
rare, curious, and high-priced plants. Music was again in 
requisition, and, as the ultimatum of gaiety, et le plus noble 
élan, the President proposed the health of “ The King, the 
Protector of Agriculture, Industry, and the Arts.” 

Nosegays were prepared for the ladies, who were also 
presented with the first number of the Annales de la Société 
@ Horticulture. Some new subscribers to the society were 
procured by this means. A concert and a ball succeeded, 
and the latter lasted till the following morning. So numerous 
were the carriages, that Fromont seemed joined to Paris, and 
all the efforts of the amiable, liberal, and enlightened pro- 
prietor were seconded by the finest weather. 

2. On the Hybrids obtained by the Baron Melazzo at 
Palermo, the Chevalier Soulange- Bodin at Fromont, M. Fion 
at Paris, and the Honourable and Reverend William Her- 
bert in England. By Baron Hamelin, of Franconville. 

Baron Melazzo deprived AmarYllis vittata of its anthers 
before they were expanded, and fecundated its stigma with 
the pollen of Amaryllis regine. In due time Amaryllis 


Annales de la Société @ Horticulture de Paris. AAG 


Gravina (in honour of D. F. Gravina, Prince de Lascara, 
gentleman of the bedchamber to the King of the two Sicilies) 
was produced, and pronounced to be one of the finest of the 
genus; it is cultivated and sold by the Chevalier Soulange- 
Bodin, with whom it is said to have produced seed. 

Soulange-Bodin having fecundated Magnolia Yedlan with 
the pollen of M. obovata var. discolor, Dec. the M. purpurea 
of the British nurseries, obtained a magnificent hybrid, named 
M. Soulangzana, and which is to be had in the Clapton and 
other London nurseries. We are much inclined to think this 
hybrid will not be permanent, and that it will soon return 
to M. Yalan. 

M. Fion, a nursery-florist, Rue des ‘Trois Couronnes, 
No. 14., a Paris, justly celebrated for his fine collection and 
excellent culture of exotic trees and shrubs, placed a Daphne 
indica and a D. collina so near together in the open air that 
their branches intermixed. The desired result took place ; 
D. indica preduced one seed, which was sown in the autumn 
of 1820, came up in 1821, and in the spring of 1829, its 
shoot was cut over by the surface, and grafted upon D. collina. 
In two years it came into flower, and is recognised by some 
of the qualities of both of its parents. Its leaves are more 
beautiful than those of D. indica, and it is more hardy than 
that species ; it has a fine odour, and remains a long time in 
flower. M. Fion has produced another hybrid between 
D. collina, and D. Cnedrum. Both plants, we believe, are 
now in the London nurseries. 

In England, Mr. Herbert has obtained upwards of a score 
of hybrid Crinums which ripen seeds, independently of 
other hybrid Amaryllidee. Linneus is said to have admitted 
hybrids in the genera Veronica, Primula, Campanula, Solanum, 
Chenopddium, Trop olum, #heum, Cotylédon, Sérbus, 2dsa, 
Géum, Chelidonium, Papaver, Delphinium, Geranium, 7ri- 
folium, Centaurea, A’xyris, Amaranthus, Potérium, and dga- 
ricus ; he also admitted other species which he suspected to be 
hybrids, and designated them by the adjective spurious; and 
many which he considered approaching to that state, and de- 
signated by the specific names terminating in iodides. Kohl- 
renter obtained a great many hybrids, amd no man more than 
the English nurseryman, Colville. 

From all this the writer conclides that hybrids are formed 
by nature; an opinion which, he says, he holds in common 
with Linneus, Salisbury, and some other eminent botanists. 

After giving the instances of a hybrid between Aanunculus 
gramineus, and £2. platanifolius, created in the botanic garden 


446 Annales de la Société d’ Horticulture de Paris. 


of Brussels in the year 1820; of various hybrids between 
Gentidna litea and purpurea found on the summit of a moun- 
tain of Savoy; of the hybrid ixias and geraniums found at 
the Cape ; and showing how probable it is that insects, which, 
it is well known, have predilections for particular plants, 
should be the means of creating hybrids ; he draws the follow- 
ing conclusions : — 

“Hybr ids are every now and then produced by nature. 

Hybrids are daily created by man. 

A genus of which there is only one species, seldom egies 
new species, because it has no opportunity of hybridising ; 
those, on the contrary, which have a great many species, 
especially if they are natives of the same part of the globe, 
have their numbers increased, because they have many oppor- 
tunities of hybridising. 

May it not, Wane taney asks Baron Hamelen, be concluded 
that meee of the plants ranked by botanists as species, are 
hybrids ? 
we should answer, yes ; some few are undoubtedly hybrids ; 
but we do not think it likely that any hybrid, whether created 
by nature or art, can be perpetuated by seed, and remain 
distinct for any length of time. Much, however, may be said 
on both sides of the question. ‘The idea that most of the 
species which now exist have been produced in the course of 
ages by accidental crosses is, as M. Decandolle observes, very 
seducing, as tending to trace a great number of complicated 
effects to one single and easily comprehended cause ; but M. 
Decandolle adds, ‘that the rarity of hybrids in nature is against 
such a conclusion. 

II. Notices, Analyses, §c.—1. The Flower Market of 
Paris. By the. Abbé Berlése. This market has existed froma 
very early period on the quays of the Seine. In 1818 it was 
enlarged. ‘The market-days are Wednesdays and Saturdays ; 
gardeners who are entitled to attend the market have each a 
place allotted to them, for which they pay 25 cents. per mar- 
ket-day. From the Ist of May to the Ist of September, the 
market continues from five o’clock in the morning, till eight 
o’clock in the evening ; from the 1st of September to the 1st of 
March, from seven o’clock in the morning to five o’clock in the 
evening; and from the 1st of March to the Ist of May, from 
six in the morning till six in the evening. This market is 
exclusively for gr een-house plants, and other plants in flower 
in pots, and for gathered flowers. ‘There is another market 
adjoining, for common nursery articles, including roots of 
herbaceous plants, which is held on the same days ‘and during 


Annales de la Société d@ Horticulture de Paris. 447 


the same hours. Attached to this last market is an officer, 
assisted by expert gardeners, who examines all the plants, and 
destroys on the spot all those which have bad roots. 

The flower market is held entirely by women, who employ 
the greatest pains in arranging and disposing of their plants, 
as well to display the variety of their foliage, as the shades 
of their flowers. The retail florists come here early in the 
morning, purchase their flowers from the first hand, take them 
home, rearrange them, and retail them in their shops at a 
great profit. 

Every sort of hardy and exotic shrub, bulb, and flower, in 
general culture, will be found here; often the newest varieties 
of roses, the camellia, the tree paeony, different species of 
daphne, rhododendron, and azalea, gardenias, correas, China 
roses, Cape heaths, magnolias, Cape bulbs, and even the 
Strelitzza reginze: in short, almost all the New Holland plants 
introduced to France may, at one period or another, be found 
in this market. The price is very reasonable; often, indeed, 
plants are got here for very little, which elsewhere cost a good 
deal. 

At this market M. Lemon exposes his finely cultivated new 
varieties of geranium, obtained from seed; M. Dubard, his 
Chinese and New Holland plants; and Mesdames Boulard, 
Mathieu, Julienne, Devert, Joly, Lot, Durand, &c., abundance 
of flowers of all sorts. ‘The merchants of Paris purchase 
flowers here to ornament their shops; the confectioners, to 
display at fetes and balls; the priests, to decorate their altars ; 
and pious children, to plant on the graves of their parents, 
in the Cemetery of Pére-la-chaise, or other burial grounds. 
The estimated sale per annum is 300,000 fr. (12,500/.) for 
flowers, and 100,000 /7. (4166/. 13s. 4d.) for nursery articles. 

The flowers and trees in these markets require a great deal 
of care and attention from those who sell them ; yet, as in simi- 
lar cases, it is often complained by the purchasers, that the 
flowers fade as soon as they get out of their hands. Of the 
gardeners it has been said that, before delivering plants sold 
in pots, they turn out the ball, and place in the bottom of the 
pot a piece of unslaked lime, which, as soon as the purchaser 
waters his plant, swells, and burns its roots; or, if the lump 
has been large, it bursts the pot. ‘The Abbé Berlése observes 
that this idle report has arisen from the circumstance of pieces 
of old plaster being used, as drainage to pots, by the Paris gar- 
deners. 

2. Cours de Culture et de Naturalisation des Végétaux. 
Par André Thouin; publie et annoté par M. Oscar Leclerc. 


448 Annales de la Société @ Horticulture de Paris. 


Paris. 3 vols. 8vo, with an Atlas of 65 pls. in 4to. 35/7. Re- 
viewed by C. Bailly de Merlieux. } 

M. Leclerc, whom we have the pleasure of reckoning 
among the number of our correspondents, is a nephew of 
the late Professor Thouin, and attached to the adminis- 
tration of the Jardindu Roi. The papers of which this 
work is composed were left him by his uncle, one of the 
most enlightened and methodical writers on gardening, and 
courteous and benevolent of men. To those who were not 
personally acquainted with the professor, it may be sufficient 
to refer to his eulogium pronounced by Professor Cuvier 
(Gard. Mag., vol.i. p. 226.), and to his writings in the Annales 
du Museum d’ Histoire Naturelle. As we intend to analyse M. 
Leclerce’s work at an early opportunity ourselves, we shall only 
observe here, that it is favourably spoken of by M. Bailly, 
and a long extract given from the chapter treating on the prin- 
ciples of the naturalisation of plants. 

III. Miscellanies and News. — Leaves used instead of dung 
in making hotbeds. Auriculas, manured with soot after 
flowering in spring, flowered again the succeeding autumn. 
The Egyptian, or potato, onion has produced seeds in the bo- 
tanic garden of Aisne, and young plants have been raised from 
them. Mr. Brown, jun., of Stow’s directions for preventing 
mice from eating newly sown peas, extracted from the Gar- 
dener’s Magazine. 

The questions asked, how far smoke and coal gas are in- 
jurious to plants; what is the cause of certain yellow blotches 
like excrescences [doubtless, fungi], which have appeared on 
the leaves of pear trees, have materially injured their growth, 
* and prevented them from bearing a crop of fruit, and how to 
destroy the Coccus lanigera in hot-houses. 

Extracts are given from what passed at different meetings 
of the Society from the 11th of June to the 12th of Septem- 
ber. The situation for a garden for the Society was dis- 
cussed on the 6th of July. On the 18th of July, M. du Petit- 
Thouars presented several works on horticulture, but claimed 
the reservation of them fora short time till he had terminated 
a work which he is now printing, entitled Chronological Bzo- 
graphy of Gardeners. It was determined to publish the An- 
nales of the Society monthly, in 8vo; and on the 22d of 
August, the Chevalier Soulange-Bodin was reelected general 
secretary. M. Soulange-Bodin, as before noticed (p. 334.), 
offered the sum of 400 fr. to the person who should discover 
the means of destroying the grub of the cockchaffer. A list of 
new members is added. 


Catalogue of Works ‘on Gardening, Agriculture, &c. 449 


IV. Bulletin Bibliographique. — The titles of ten:works are 
given, some of which have already appeared, and the remain- 
der are now recorded in our catalogue. 

We are highly gratified to find that this Society may now 
be considered as firmly established, and as likely to go on and 
prosper. It will form one more point of union between the 
two countries, and the more of these points the better for 
the improvement and happiness of society. 

The more intimately the British and French people know 
each other, the greater will be their mutual confidence and 
esteem, and the greater will be the moral, political, and general 
improvements of each nation. It is acknowledged by those who 
are much better able to judge than we are, that at. least 
the manners of the people of England would be improved 
by the adoption of various practices from the French; and the 
French people, who in reality are more liberal than we are, 
readily allow that they may profit in various ways by imitat- 
ing the English. They are thus profiting, and so are we by 
imitating them to a certain extent. It is acknowledged that the 
lower and middling classes of the people of Paris, and other 
large towns in France, have a very different opinion of .the 
English from what they had during the late war; and we have 
heard it asserted by one of the first practical engineers of 
France, that he believed, if the two countries should remain 
another fifteen years at peace with each other, such would ‘be 
the mutual esteem and the mutual commercial advantages, and 
such, in short, the power of public opinion, that it would be 
impossible for the rulers of the two countries to engage the 
inhabitants in a mutual war. It is gratifying to find that even 
such ideas are entertained, whether they should ever be 
realised or not; and it is evidently proper to encourage and 

‘disseminate them, We repeat, therefore, that we rejoice in 
the establishment and prosperity of the Paris Horticultural 
Society, with reference to such a result. 


er 7 


Art. III. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, 
Rural Architecture, &c., published since December last, with some 
Account of those considered the most interesting. 


BRITAIN. 


Curtis's Botanical Magazine, or Flower-Garden displayed; New Series. 

Edited by Dr. Hooker. In 8vo Numbers. 5s. 6d. coloured ; 3s. plain. © 

Wo. XIII. for January, contains : 

2791 to 2797. — Adansonia digitata; Bombaceee. A tree of Senegal, 

Egypt, and Abyssinia, of moderate elevation; but whose trunk is from 
Vou. IIT. — No. 12. aa 


450 Botanical Magazine. 


20 to 30 ft. in diameter, soon dividing into branches of great size, bearing a 
dense mass of digitate leaves, with axillary flowers, solitary, very large, 
with white petals and purple anthers. There can be no question of this 
being the largest known tree. Though introduced to Britain so long ago 
as 1724, it has never flowered, and is not likely to do so in our stoves, 
without more room than can in general be afforded. Dr. Hooker’s figure 
(fig. 168.) is from specimens preserved in spirits. ‘The flowers (a) are 


handsome on their first expansion, but put on a very different appearance 
at a more advanced period (6); both flowers and fruit (¢) are pendent. 
Humboldt speaks of this tree as “ the oldest. organic monument of our 
planet.” Adanson makes the following calculation of its age, diameter of 
the trunk and height. ™ 


A tree lyear oldis - 1 or13 inch in diameter, and 5 feet im height. 


20 years oldis - 1 foot - : 15 
50 - - 2 feet - - 22 
100 - = 4 - - 29 ji 
1000 a “ 14 = e, 58 ; 
2400 - - 18 “ = 64 
5150 = = 50 = 5 B75 


The roots are of an extraordinary length, with numerous ramifications. 
Adanson found the taproot of a tree, whose trunk was 77 ft. in circumfe- 
rence, 110 ft. long. The branches spread out drooping at the extremities, 
and are so entirely covered with leaves as to form a nearly hemispherical 
mass of verdure, from 140 to 150 ft. in diameter, and from 60 to 70 ft. in 
height. (See the vignette in Macartney’s Embassy to China, p. 141.) “ The 
wood is pale-coloured, light, and soft, so that, in Abyssinia, the wild bees 
perforate it, for the purpose of lodging their honey in the holes, which 
honey is reckoned the best in the country. I know not that the wood 
itself is applied to any particular use, but the negroes on the eastern 
coast of Africa employ the trunks in a certain state to a very extraordi- 
nary purpose. The tree is subject to a particular disease, owing to the 
attack of a species of fungus which vegetates in the woody part, and 
which, without changing its colour, or appearance, destroys life, and 
renders the parts so attacked as soft as the pith of trees in general. Such 
trunks are then hollowed into chambers, and within them are suspended 
the dead bodies of those who are refused the honour of burial. There 
they become mummies, perfectly dry and well preserved, without any far- 
ther preparation or embalmment, and are known by the name of guiriots. 


Botanical Magazine. 451 
This plant, like all of the neighbouring order of Malvacez, is emollient and 
mucilaginous in all its parts. The leaves, dried and reduced to powder, 
constitute Jao, a favourite article with the natives, and which they mix 
daily with their food, for the purpose of diminishing the excessive per- 
spiration to which they are subject in those climates, and even the Euro- 
peans find it serviceable in cases of diarrhea, fevers, and other maladies. 
“The fruit is, perhaps, the most useful part of the tree. Its pulp is 
slightly acid and agreeable, and frequently eaten; while the juice is 
expressed from it, mixed with sugar, and constitutes a drink which is 
valued as a specific in putrid and pestilential fevers. Owing to these cir- 
cumstances, the fruit forms an article of commerce.. In Bowdich’s account 
of Banjole it is mentioned that this fruit possesses an agreeably acid 
flavour, and, being very abundant, it forms a principal article of food 
among the natives, who season many of their dishes with it, especially a 
kind of gruel, made of corn, and called rooy, Mr. Bowdich farther 
observes that this tree loses its leaves before the periodical rains come on. 
The Mandinjos convey the fruit to the eastern and more southern districts 
of Africa, and through the medium of the Arabs it reaches Morocco, and 
even Keypt. If the fruit be decayed or injured, it is burned: the lees are 
mixed with rancid oil of palm, and the negroes use it instead of soap.” 
Malva Morénii, a native of Italy, about Naples. “ Whether or not this 
plant may be a variety of JM. Alcz‘a must be left for future observation.” 
*— Croton castaneifolium ; Huphorbidcee. An annual from Trinidad, with 
“ nothing to recommend it for cultivation except in the gardens-of the 
curious.’ — Oncidium papilio. An orchideous bulb, of a purple colour, 
with purple brown coriageous leaves, spotted and blotched’ with green, and 
solitary flowers, of a bright yellow colour, with red brown blotches ; large 
and beautiful. From Trinidad to the Glasgow botanic garden; where it 
flowered in 1826. It is among the most singular and beautiful of the exten- 
sive family of epiphytes with which our hot-houses are now so abundantly 
stored.”? — O’robus sessilifolius. A hardy perennial from Tauria, with 
grasslike leaves, and handsome purple flowers in July. — Neéttia aphylla; 
Orchidez. From Trinidad to the Glasgow botanic garden. “ In a state 
of cultivation, entirely destitute of leaves; and the whole plant of a sin- 
gularly lurid reddish green colour.” 


No. XIV. for February, contains 

2798 to 2804. — Nepénthes distillatoria. A noble specimen from Dr. 
Graham, grown in the Edinburgh botanic garden, and_ beautifully 
engraved and coloured of the natural size. “ Our plant differs from the 
N. distillatoria of Loureiro, in the lid never closing after it once opens ; 
but the power of alternate opening and closing, even in his plant, was 
probably imaginary, as his statement of the pitchers receiving the night- 
dews certainly is. The fluid which they contain is undoubtedly a secre- 
tion, but for what purpose does not appear. It is stated to have nearly 
filled one third of the pitcher in Messrs. Loddiges’ plant; but with us it 
never much exceeded a drachm.’? — Gondlobus niger. A twiner from 
Mexico, with heart-shaped oblong leaves, and deep. black purple flowers 
in October. Stove. Whether it be a ligneous or herbaceous plant, what 
may be its duration, its height, or year of introduction, is not mentioned, 
a deficiency of which we have frequent occasion to complain. — Polemo- 
nium Richardsonz. A beautiful little perennial, with elegantly cut leaves 
and blue flowers, gathered by Dr. Richardson, in 1825, in deep sandy soil, 
on Great Bear Lake, in 66° north latitude, and which flowered in a cold- 
frame in the Edinburgh botanic garden, in October last. It was also 
gathered by Mr. Menzies, during his celebrated voyage with Captain Van- 
couver, on the north-west coast of America. — Pothos macrophylla. - Stove, 

Ga 2 


452 Botanical Register. 


and the easiest culture. — Bz‘ckia frutéscens. A twiggy shrub, from 
China; green-house; and the easiest culture. — Banksia marcéscens. — 
Dorsténia tubicina. A rare and curious herbaceous plant ; from T rinidad 
to the Glasgow botanic garden. The fragrance of the root has induced 
the inhabitants of Peru to employ it in the room of Dorsténia contrayérva. 


Edwards's Botanical Register. Continued by John Lindley, F.R.S. LS. &c. 
In 8vo Numbers. 4s. coloured. 


No. CLV. for January, contains 

_ 1117 to 1125.— Técoma capénsis (the Bignénia capénsis of Hortus 
Kewensis); Bignoniacee. “ A hardy green-house plant, of great beauty, 
growing freely in light rich soil, and rooting from cuttings under a hand- 
glass.” The flowers are tubular, orange red, and about 2 in. long. — Mi- 
mulus moschitus, Musk-scented Monkey Flower; Scrophularinee. A 
truly charming hardy perennial; from Mr. Douglas to the Horticultural 
Society. “ It was found growing sparingly on the margins of springs in the 
‘country about the river Colombia, in North-west America. The whole 
plant is covered with a soft glandular hairiness, which emits a powerful but 
extremely pure smell of musk, that perfumes the atmosphere im hot 
weather, or if the plant is trodden upon. In the cold months of winter the 
scent is much less powerful. The blossoms are a clear bright yellow, and 
appear in profusion during all the summer. To be cultivated in perfec- 
tion, it should be planted in peat soil, in a shady damp border. It is pro- 
pagated by seeds, or by divisions of its creeping roots.” : 

(nothéra quadrivalnera ; Onagrariz. A hardy annual, not unlike that 
very beautiful plant Q@vnothéra Lindleyana. From the north-west coast 
of North America, by Mr. Douglas, to the Horticultural Society. In 
the open border it forms a diffuse patch, with stems about a foot in 
jength: if grown in a pot, for which it is admirably adapted, it becomes a 
dense tuft of stems, about 6 in. high, which are almost covered with leaves, 
and elegant lilac flowers, from June till the plant is destroyed by frost.’? — 
Dianélla revoluta; Asphodélea. From Port Jackson and the tropical 
part of New Holland, by Mr. Charles Fraser, to the Horticultural Society, 
in 1824. Mr. Lindley has given it the English name of “ Few-flowered Port 
Jackson Dianella,” which, consistently with our opinion that the English 
specific name ought always to be a translation of the scientific specific 
name, we cannot at all approve of. We do not, however, mean to say 
‘that much would be gained by calling this species Revolute-/eaved rather 
than Few-flowered ; but we prefer giving the English names, as we do every 
thing else, on a fixed definite principle, and to that principle we adhere. 
‘The practice of giving English names, which shall convey some idea in 
addition to the systematic name, we object to as too indefinite; and as pre- 
“venting gardeners and others, ignorant of the Latin language, from deriving 
‘that knowledge of the meaning of Latin words which they would derive 
by literal translation, and by any additions (as Jeaved, for instance, in trans- 
lating revoltita, revolute-/eaved) being put in a different type. 

Pentstemon Richardsonii; Scrophularineze. “ A handsome hardy per- 
ennial, growing freely in peat among American plants, and flowering 
towards the latter end of the summer.” It was found by Mr. Douglas in 
the vicinity of the Colombia, and named by him in compliment to Dr. 
‘Richardson, the celebrated companion of Dr. Franklin in the late overland 
expeditions to the shores of the Polar Sea. — Pentstémon angustifolium. 
* A very handsome plant, with rose-coloured tubular flowers, and, we be- 
lieve, a hardy perennial.” It was found by Messrs. Humboldt and Bonpland 
in Mexico, at an elevation of 7920 ft. above the level of the sea, upon 
rocks overshadowed by trees. It flowered in Mr. Tate’s nursery, Sloane 
Street, in the summer of 1827.— O’xalis floribtinda; Oxalidez. Sent to 


Botanical Register. 453 


the Horticultural Society by Professor Lehmann, in 1827, and supposed to 
be a native of South America. “ If grown in a pot in a cool egreen-house, 
it flourishes exceedingly, soon acquiring the height of a foot or 18 in., and 
producing, in great profusion, loose bunches of rose-coloured flowers, 
which are placed upon the end of peduncles diverging from the main stem 
at nearly right angles, and giving the whole plant the air of a vegetable 
chandelier of many branches.” 
No. CLVI. for February, contains 

1124 to 1150. — Lupinus leucophyllus, White-leaved Lupine. A fine 
branching perennial ; “a native of woodless sandy deserts, from the great 
falls of the river Colombia in North America, to the sources of the Mis- 
souri, among the Rocky Mountains, where it was discovered by Mr. Douglas. 
It is a branching plant, covered all over with long white hairs, which, in 
this wild plant, are so abundant as to conceal the epidermis. The flowers 
grow in long slender racemes, and are either white, or tinged with light 
pink. 

Mimulus floribindus, A neat hardy annual, found by Mr. Douglas on 
moist rocks in the interior of the districts of the river Colombia. It 
begins to blossom in August, and remains in beauty till the middle of 
October: the flowers expand in the morning, and close by about mid-day. 
Raised with facility from seeds sown in April upon a warm damp peat-bor- 
der. The young plants should be thinned out well, or they are apt to 
choke each other. In consequence of the smallness of the seeds, it is best 
to mix them with pit-sand or wood-ashes before they are committed to the 
earth.” 

Gondlabus viridiflorus ; Asclepiadee. A curious stove twining shrub, 
from South America; propagated very readily by cuttings of the ripened 
wood. — Gloxinia cauléscens. “ By far the finest of this handsome genus 
that has yet appeared, and exceedingly worthy of cultivation. It requires, 
like the other gloxinias, the heat of the stove; and, we presume, is to be 
propagated in the same way as they are.” an 

Cratee‘gus oxyacanthdides. A handsome small tree, from Paris; and, 
probably, found in other parts of Kurope. “ Variable as is the Kuropean 
Hawthorn, it is distinguishable into about three principal forms, which 
represent as many botanical species. Of these, the first with deeply pin- 
natifid leaves, round smooth ovaria, and compact cymes, is the true C. 
Oxyacantha; to which are to be referred, as varieties, C. laciniata of 
Besser, the Pink and Yellow-berried Hawthorns of the gardens and the 
C. mondégyna of various authors, with their synonyms. A second form is 
the C.fissa of some of the English gardens, but not of Bosc, which has 
broad deeply cut pinnatifid leaves, downy beneath, especially at the axillz, 
and black fruit: this may be called C. platyphylla. The third form is the 
subject of this article, to which, undoubtedly, belongs the Double Hawthorn 
of the gardens; and also, as a remarkable variety, the C. triloba of Per- 
soon: it has peculiarly loose cymes of flowers, and cuneate obtuse leaves.” 

Sophronia (sophrone, modesty ; appearance) cérnua. A very remarkable 
little epiphyte, about 3 in. high, growing readily in decayed vegetable soil 
among moss, in a hot humid shady part of the stove. In generic affinity it is 
most nearly akin to Octoméria, which differs in having sessile pollen masses, 
a column without wings, the two lower sepals united at the base, and a three- 
lobed labellum. E*ria, which is_also nearly allied, belongs to Malaxideze. 

Billbérgia fasciata ; Bromeliacee. A remarkably handsome stove plant. 
From Rio Janeiro, to the Ballspond nursery. It requires the assistance of 
a bark-bed, and is propagated by offsets of the spike and root. It has nearly 
‘the same relation tothe true Billbérgia that the Tillandsia nitida of Professor 
‘Hooker pears to the genuine species of Tillandsia. The white bands of the 


G6 3 


454 Botanical Cabinet. — Flora Australdsica. 


leaves, and the rich rose-coloured bracteas of this species, give it a particu- 
larly beautiful appearance. 


Botanical Cabinet. By Messrs. Loddiges. In 4to and svo Parts. 
5s. and 2s. 6d. X 


Part CXXIX. for January, contains S 

1281 to 1290.— Mesembryanthemum polyanthon. “ A low bushy plant, 
of easy culture, requiring the green-house in winter. It will increase by 
cuttings without difficulty. The soil should be sandy loam. The flowers 
are in perfection in July and August; they are most abundant, and of a 
delightful colour, the brilliancy of which is inimitable. If this, and many 
others of the same family, are taken out of their pots and planted ina 
sunny border, they will grow and flower in as great luxuriance, probably, 
as they do in Africa.’’ — Anigozanthos flavida; Heemodoracee. A singular 
plant from New Holland, with stems from 1 to 2 ft. in height, and curious 
dingy flowers, which appear in summer, and last a long time. — Pimélea 
decussata; Zhymélee. An elegant, handsome, bushy shrub, from New 
South Wales, in 1814. Green-house, and easy culture in sand and peat.— 
Natclea Adina; Rubiacez. A low bushy shrub, flowering freely even when 
young ; smelling agreeably, living in the green-house, thriving in the stove, 
and of the easiest culture in loam and peat.— Catdlpa syringifolia; Big- 
nonidceg. A well-known beautiful tree, from the banks of the Ohio and 
Mississippi. —Zrica rigida.— Oxytropis campéstris ; Leguminose. A peren- 
nial, from Switzerland, of low stature, and only to be increased by seeds. — 
Callistémon scabrum; Myrtaceze. Splendid pink flowers in July, and the 
easiest culture. — A’ster alpinus var. ramosus. A beautiful little alpine, 
about a foot high, with blue flowers all the summer. — Coreépsis grandi- 
flora. A hardy perennial, from North America, by R. Barclay, Esq., grow- 
ing from 2 to 3 ft. high, and flowering the greater part of summer. 


Part CXXX. for February, contains , 

_ 1291 to 1300.— Hscallonia glandulosa. A small half-hardy tree, from 
China. —Witheringéa montana.— Mesembryanthemum formosum. — Erica 
thalictriflora. Curious, its flowers being dissimilar from those of most. 
other heaths. — Alstreeméria pelegrina. A green-heuse plant of great 
beauty, from Peru. — Gloxinia hirsita. Stove; curious. — Asclépias tube- 
rosa. A well-known and very handsome perennial. — Lobélia corymbosa. 
“A pretty little green-house plant, from the Cape, which was presented 
to us by our kind friend, Mr. M‘Nab, of the Edinburgh garden, a truly 
splendid establishment, worthy of the modern Athens.” — Ptéris palmata. 
An elegant stove fern. — Tradescantva latifolia. An herbaceous plant, from 
Peru, with flowers of a pale blue colour. Green-house; light loam. 


Flora Australisica.. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. &c. Monthly. 3s. coloured ; 
2s. plain. : 


No. VIII. for January, contains i 

29 to 32.—Callistémon (kallistos, most beautiful, stemon, stamen; stamens) 
lophanthum (ophos, a crest, anthos, a flower); Myrtaceee Myrtée. An up- 
right, bushy, evergreen shrub, with straw-coloured flowers in a spike, with 
the branch lengthening out beyond.— Grevillea rosmarinifolia ; Protedcee 
An upright, bushy, evergreen shrub, with flowers in terminal racemes, 
blush-coloured, or pale red, but reddish before expansion, and the colour 
finest when most expesed to the air. — Davallia gibberdsa, Gibbous 
Hare’s foot Fern. An elegant fern, with the leaves much cut, and so hardy 
as only to require the protection of a frame in winter.— Cassia Barclaydna; 
Leguminose Czsalpinee, Cassite. A handsome, dwarf, evergreen, soft- 
wooded, branching shrub, with deep golden yellow flowers great part of 


Geranidce @. — British Flower-Garden. 455 


the summer. From New Holland to Robert Barclay, Esq., of Bury Hill, in 
whose garden it flowered for the first time, in the open border, in 1824. 


No. VIII. for February, contains 

33 to 36. — Pittésporum tomentdsum. A handsome, bushy, evergreen 
shrub, from New Holland. — Mirbélia (C.F. Brisseau-Mirbel, author of 
various works on Physiological Botany and Vegetable Anatomy) speciosa ; 
Leguminosee Papilioniceze Sophoreee. A very beautiful suffruticose plant, 
with linear leaves and bright purple flowers. From New Holland, by Mr. 
W. Baxter, C.M.H.S., to Mr. J. B. Mackay, F.L.S. H.S. &c. of the Clapton 
nursery. — Pultene‘a fléxilis; Leg. Pap. Sophoree. A small, bushy, 
upright, evergreen shrub, with yellow flowers of an agreeable fragrance. 
From New South Wales, by Mr. C. Fraser, C.M.H.S. colonial botanist, to 
Messrs. Whitley, Brames, and Milne, of the Fulham nursery. — Leptospér- 
mum obovatum ; Myrtaceze Myrtéz. An upright, bushy, evergreen shrub, 
with white flowers. All these very handsome plants are of the usual 
culture in loam and peat, and may be preserved through the winter in a 
cold-pit. 


_ Geranidcee. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. &c. Monthly. 3s. each. 


Nos. XCVIT. and XCVITII. for January and February, contain 
585 to 592. — Pelargonium Russellidnum, Princednum (“ named in coms 
pliment to Mr. Prince, nurseryman, at Flushing, Long Island, near New 
York, who possesses one of the best collections of plants and trees in 
North America, and exports a great number to Europe annually’’) ; 
Dimacria lancezefolia; Pelargonium carnéscens, Harewoddia, scitulum; Di- 
macria barbata; and Pelargonium Clintonie. 


The British Flower-Garden. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. &c. In 8vo Numbers. 
Monthly. 3s. each. 


No. LIX. for January, contains 

253 to 236.— Phl6x pyramidalis’; Polemoniaceze. A well-known, hand- 
some perennial. — A’ster patens ; Compésitz Carduacea. Handsome, with 
blue flowers, and of the easiest culture. — Chelone atropurptrea; Scro- 
phularineze. Handsome, growing to the height of 5 ft., and blooming from 
July to October — Lathyrus amphicarpos. A pretty and curious annual, 
from Syria, producing its flowers the greater part of the summer. . Com- 
municated to Mr. Sweet by A. B. Lambert, Esq., in whose garden, at 
Boyton, this plant survived through last winter with very little protection. 
After flowering it buries its pods under the soil, whence the specific name. 


No. LX. for February, contains 

257 to 240.—Bidens striata; Compdésite Helianthee. A handsome 
autumn-flowering perennial [?], from Mexico to Bury Hill. —Scyphanthus 
(skyphos, a cup or bowl, anthos, a flower) élegans; Lodsee. A beautiful, 
free-flowering, half-hardy annual, from Chile to the Horticultural Society, 
and to the collection of H.B. Ker, Esq. F.L.S. H.S. &c., of the Regent’s 
Park, a distinguished amateur, and a man of various talents and extensive 
views. — Platystylis ( platys, broad, stylos, a style or column) cyanea; Le- 
gumindsee Papilionaceze Vicie. A handsome perennial, from Caucasus to 
the Chelsea garden. — Cypripédium spectabile ; Orchidez Didndre. The 
plant figured is a beautiful white variety, introduced from North America 
by Mr. G. Charlwood, F.L.S., of No. 146., Drury Lane, who has imported 
a number of other species of this genus, of Sarracénia, and of other genera, 
for sale. 


GG 4 


£56  Cistineee: — Botanic Garden. — Florist’s Guide. 


Cistinee. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. &c. In svo, every alternate Month. 3s. 


No. XVI. for January, contains 

61 to 64.—Heli4nthemum punctatum. Annual; herbaceous, with a 
branching stem and yellow flowers.— H.apenninum. Suftruticose, very 
much branched, with white flowers. — Cistus eréticus. Shrubby, erect, 
much branched, with large, terminal, reddish purple flowers. — Helianthe- 
mum vulgare var. multiplex. The common helianthemum, with double 
flowers. There are two varieties, the larger of which is knewn by the name 
of Mr. Lee’s New Double Yellow. Both are well worth having, as pecu- 
liarly adapted for rockwork, and of the easiest culture. 


The Botanic Garden. By B. Maund, F.L.S. In small 4to. Large 1s. 6d. ; 
cit small 1s. 


No. XXXVITI. for January, contains 
Anemone palmata. According to Gerarde, the leaves of anemone, 
stamped and used as snuff, purge the head mightily. Most of the species 
are attractive, and general favourites. — Melissa erandiflora, Great-flowered 
‘Balm. The green leaves yield a muscadine red to water, and give a pure 
and perfect green to spirit of wine. — Campanula spéculum (from speculum 
Veneris, after the Dutch Vr'owwen spiegel, or Ladies’ Looking-glass ; probably 
from the shining surface of the seeds). — Lychnis (/ychnis, a lamp) coro- 
nata: (corona, a crown; flowers in heads). The present number completes 
vol.ii, parti. of this elegant, judiciously got up, and very cheap pub- 
lication, 

No. XXXVITI. for February, contains 
C¥tisus nigricans, Gypsdphila prostrata, Crocus versicolor. “ Though 
it be as indispensable that vegetables be admitted to imbibe atmospheric 


air, as it is for animals to breathe it, yet a flower is not always dependent 
on immediate contact with the atmosphere for its colouring principles, for 
we frequently find it conveyed to them through the medium of the foliage, 
at a period when the flowers are most ingeniously excluded from exposure. 
'The Crocus flower, at the time the leaves are issuing from the earth, pre- 
sents a familiar example. Our young friends will find an examination of 
these bulbs and flowers, in different stages of their growth, particularly in- 
teresting.” — Rubus arcticus. “ Linneeus found this plant in Lapland, 
where both wine and jelly are made from its berries, from which he had often 
experienced the most salutary relief when fainting with fatigue and op- 
pressed with hunger—circumstances under which he not unfrequently 
laboured, whilst in the arduous pursuit of botanical science. One plant, 
newly discovered, would, however, cover the remembrance of a multitude 
of toils.” 

The Florist’s Guide and Cultivator’s Directory, &c. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. 
: &c. In Monthly Numbers. 5s. coloured; 2s. plain. 


No. VII. for January, contains . 

25 to 28.—Rosalie de Rohan Picotee, with yellow flowers streaked 
‘with red. — Walworth Tulip; white petals, variegated with rose colour; 
‘from the select collection of W. Strong, Esq., of Albion Cottage, Brook 
“Green. — Smith’s Champion Pink, and Le Mélange des Beautés Ranun- 
‘culus; the last from the select collection of J. Goldham, Esq., of White 
‘Cottage, White Conduit Fields. Directions are given for the culture of 
these plants from the excellent little treatise of Mr. Hogg, of Paddington. 


: No. VIII. for February, contains 
_ 29 to 52.— Grimes’s Privateer Auricula. — Violet Alexandre Tulip, a 
fine Bybloemen. — Ive’s Prince Leopold Carnation, a handsome Crimson 
Bizarre. — Barratt’s Conqueror Pink. Mr. Hogg, in his catalogue, men- 
tions this as the best pink grown ; it is also very cheap, being only 5s. a pair- 


Medical Botany, &c. 457 


“At this season it will be advisable to examine the pink plants frequently, 
to see that they are not eaten or damaged by the snails or slugs ; the cater- 
pillars also, from Néctua varidbilis and N. gamma and.other moths, fre- 
quently do much mischief to pinks and other perennial herbaceous plants 
at this season, when the weather is mild, coming out of their hiding places 
from the ground at night, and eating away all the young leaves, which 
causes the plants to bloom weakly, as well as disfigures them.’ 


Medical Botany, §c. By John Stephenson, M.D., and James Morss 
Churchill, Esq., Surgeon. In Monthly Numbers. 3s. 6d. 


No. XITI. for January, contains 

49 to 52.—J’nula Helenium, Helenium or Great-flowered Elecampane. An 
indigenous perennial, with the root somewhat bitter and aromatic. A new 
vegetable product has lately been procured from it called Inulin, but which 
has not yet been applied to any useful purpose. Elecampane is “ an use- 
less appendage to the materia medica, and never used unless by cow- 
doctors, who are ignorant of its properties, or by dishonest druggists, who 
add a small quantity of tartar emetic to it, and sell the mixture for pow- 
dered ipecacuanha.” — Ricinus (ricinus, a tick ; seeds) communis, Common 
Ricinus, Palma Christi, or Castor Oil Plant. “A tall annual, found native in 
almost every part of the Hast and West Indies, South America, and China. 
In Africa, this plant, which seldom rises more than 4 or 5 ft. high in Eng- 
land, attains the size of a considerable tree. Clusius observed it in Spain, 
with a trunk as large as a man’s body, and 15 or 20 ft. high. Ray asserts 
that in Sicily it is as large as the common elder tree, woody, and peren- 
nial.” An oil is expressed from the seeds by the following process: —“ The 
seeds being freed from the husks, which are gathered upon their turning 
down, and when beginning to burst open, are first bruised in a mortar, 
afterwards tied up in a linen bag, and then thrown into a large pot, with a 
sufficient quantity of water, and boiled till the oil is risen to the surface, 
when it is carefully skimmed off, strained, and kept for use.” Castor oil is 
of a pale yellow colour, with little taste or smell; it is often adulterated 
with olive oil, linseed oil, and poppy oil: it is used as a laxative, acting 
mildly and speedily, and, unlike other purgatives, its doses may be often 
lessened when an individual is in the habit of taking it.— Althe'a offici- 
nalis, Officinal Althzea, or Marsh-mallow. A native perennial, with spindle- 
shaped and somewhat woody roots, and stems 3 ft. high. “ All parts of 
the plant yield a mucilage by infusion or decoction in water; the root does 
so most abundantly, and, freed from the outer bark, is kept in shops. It is 
white, inodorous, and insipid.” An alcoholic infusion of the flowers, pre= 
viously dried by a steam heat, out of contact with light, gives a sensible 
tinge of green, on being mixed with pure water, containing a very minute 
portion of potash, one thousandth part of carbonate of soda, and one twenty= 
fifth part of lime water. ‘The roots, boiled and beaten up, are sometimes 
applied as poultices.— Strychnos (stronnum,to overthrow; poisonous ettects) 
nux vomica; Apocynea:. A middle-sized tree, common on the coast of . 
Coromandel, with leaves and flowers not unlike the common dogwood, and 
berries about the size of a pretty large apple, covered with a somewhat hard 
shell, of a rich orange colour when ripe, and filled with a soft jelly-like 
pulp. “ Nux-vomica is one of the narcotico-acrid class of poisons, and seems 
to have a direct power over the spinal cord. It produces laborious respir- 
ation, which is followed by torpor, trembling, coma, convulsions, and 
death. It is fatal to dogs, hares, wolves, foxes, cats, rabbits, ducks, crows, 
and other birds ; and Loureiro poisoned a horse by an infusion made of the 
seeds in a half-roasted state. Hoffman reports that a young girl, ten years 
of age, labouring under an obstinate quartan fever, took, at two doses, 15 
grains of nux-vomica; she died in a short time, after having experienced 


458 Medical Botany, &c. 


extreme anxieties, and having made some efforts to vomit. For a century, 
nux-vomica has been known as a powerful medicine, and employed ina 
vast variety of diseases, with different degrees of success. According to 
Roxburgh, the seeds are employed in the East in the distillation of spirits, 
to render them intoxicating. The pulp of the fruit is there eaten by birds. 
In England, nux-vomica is occasionally used by brewers, to impart an in- 
toxicating effect to beer. Paralyses and palsy, both partial and general, 
as well as various other kinds of debility, have recently been cured or 
alleviated by the alcoholic extract of this fruit. The preparations known 
as Strychnine and Brucin, have also lately been very much used ; and, as a 
proof of the importance of the subject'in the eyes of Messrs. Stephenson 
and Churchill, no fewer than fourteen pages are devoted to the medical 
preparations and applications of this plant. 


No. XIV. for February, contains 

53 to 56. —Fraxinus O’rnus (O’rnus rotundifolia), Ornate or Manna Ash 
tree. A low tree, common in Calabria and on the highest and most rocky 
mountains of Greece. Manna is procured chiefly from-this species of 
ash; but also from F. excélsior and F. parviflora. The larch, fir, orange, 
walnut, willow, mulberry, and oak, also produce it. At Briancon, in 
France, manna is said to be collected from all parts of shrubs; and the in- 
habitants observe that such summers as produce it in the greatest quantities 
are very fatal to the plants. Their walnut trees produce annually a consi- 
derable quantity; but, if they happen to yield more than ordinary, they 
usually perish the following winter. From this it appears evident that 
manna is the extravasated juice of trees, and that they cannot afford to lose 
it ; and what confirms this idea is, their secreting so much more when the 
summers are hot. The ancients were accustomed to find it on different 
species of trees, and therefore inferred that it was wholly foreign to the 
tree: an error very easily embraced by those who were not aware.that the 
nutritive juices of all trees are nearly, if not wholly, the same. 

“The medical properties of manna are those of a mild cathartic, for 
which purpose it was formerly much used in practice. As, however, one 
to two ounces of this medicine scarcely produce effects on adults, it is 
now seldom employed alone ; but, combined with senna, neutral salts, and 
other purgatives, is frequently used to cover their taste. It is an innocent 
purgative in the hands of mothers, who frequently give it to their children 
in doses from one drachm to half an ounce, dissolved in water; but, 
though mild in its operation, it is apt to produce flatulence and griping.” 

Valeriana officinalis. Well known. “ In Derbyshire, Valerian is planted 
in rows 12 in. apart, and the plants 6 in. asunder. Soon after it comes up 
in the spring, the tops are cut off, to prevent its running to seed, which 
spoils it. At Michaelmas, the leaves are pulled off and given to cattle, and 
the roots dug up, and clean washed, and the remaining top is then cut 
close off, and the thickest part slit down to facilitate their drying, which is 
effected on a kiln; after which they must be packed tight, and kept very 

- dry, or they will spoil. The usual produce is about 18 cwt. per acre.’”—The 
leaves have a saltish taste, but little or no smell. The roots, particularly 
the mountain sort, are bitter, subacrid, and of an aromatic and penetrating 
odour. The smell of the roots is very ailuring to cats, and rat-catchers 
employ it to entice rats, who are also fond of it. 

Delphinium staphisagria. A native of Provence, Languedoc, and many 
other parts of the South of Europe. “ The Delphinium staphisagria is 
supposed to be the staphis agria of Dioscorides ; and, from the flower being 
something like a dolphin’s head, the generic term is derived from delphinos, 
a dolphin. Our climate is too cold for this plant in the open air. Staves- 
acre seeds produce vomiting, drastic purgation, and inflammation, and are 


Pomological Magazine. . 459 


never administered internally. Formerly they were used as a masticatory 
for toothache, but they are too acrid to be recommended even for this 
purpose. Externally applied, they are said to be efficacious in scabies, and 
fungous ulcerations; but their chief and most valuable virtue is that of 
destroying pediculi in the head, when mixed and used with hair-powder. 
Delphine has not been employed as a medicine, nor are its effects on the 
animal economy known.” 

Datcus carota, “ the Wild Carrot, the seeds of which are aromatic, both 
in taste and odour. Water digested on them becomes impregnated with 
the latter quality, but it extracts but little of their taste. They yield a 
yellowish essential oil, and give out all their virtues to spirit. The seeds 
are carminative, and somewhat diuretic ; and, by Schroeder and others, have 
been recommended for obstructed menses, flatulent colic, hiccough, dysen- 
tery, chronic coughs, gravel, &c. Cullen found them of no efficacy in the 
latter disease, and they appear to be of little use, excepting as eorrectors of 
flatulency.” 


The Pomological Magazine. In Monthly Numbers. 5s. coloured ; 3s. 6d. 
plain. 


No. IIL. for January, contains 

9. The Catherine Peach. “ An old and very valuable variety, ripening 
in the end of September and beginning of October, and possessing far 
greater merit than any other of our late Clingstone Peaches. When fully 

-matured, it is excellent and extremely beautiful; but, to be eaten in perfec- 
tion, it should have been gathered a few days. It is said to force well, 
which is an important quality ; for, from want of solar heat in this climate, 
all the Clingstone Peaches acquire their flavour most perfectly in a forcing- 
house. It is an abundant bearer, and, according to Forsyth, well adapted 
for tarts. The Incomparable Peach is nearly the same as the Catherine, 
but is distinguished by its higher colour, both inside and outside, and by its 
flavour being inferior. On account of its superior beauty, it is the more 
cultivated of the two.” 

10. The Borovitsky Apple. A middle-sized, “roundish, and rather 
angular fruit, from the Taurida gardens in St. Petersburg. “So few of the 
early summer apples which are commonly cultivated possess any merit, that 
it is very desirable to substitute some new kinds.” ‘The Borovitsky is pro- 
posed as worthy of a second place to the Sugarloaf Pippin. 

11. The Hemskirke Apricot. A middle-sized, roundish fruit, very much 
like a small Moorpark, of unknown origin. “ It bears freely on an east 
wall, where it ripens thoroughly by the end of July, acquiring a high luscious 
flavour, superior even to that of the Moorpark. From the Royal Apricot, 
(described p. 230. No.2.) it differs in having a more tender flesh and 
richer flavour, and also in the greater sweetness of its kernel. While excel- 
lent varieties like this and a few others are to be obtained, one cannot avoid 
being surprised at walls in small gardens being encumbered with such inferior 
sorts as the Roman and the Brussels apricots.” 

12. Crompton’s (erroneously Compton’s) Sheba Queen Gooseberry. 
White, roundish oblong, ripens early, rich flavour, and a good bearer. 
“ One of the Lancashire show gooseberries, which are cultivated more on 
account of their size as prize fruits, than for their merits in the dessert.” 


No. IV. for February, contains 
13. The Roman Apricot, Abricot commun, Fr. “ The most common 
apricot that is cultivated, and with the exception, perhaps, of the Mascu- 
line, the worst. It is not, therefore, its merit that has gained it a place in 
this work ; but the being an old variety, which has acquired a station it does 
not deserve, its only good quality being its productiveness.”” 


460. Profitable Planter. — Planter’s Guide. 


14, The Sunmer Bon Chrétien Pear. “ A valuable well known Autumn 
Pear, the origin of which is lost in the darkness of antiquity. It has long 
been cultivated all over Europe, for the sake of the size and the delicious 
flavour of its fruit.” 

15. The Malta Peach. “ One of the very best of the melting peaches, 
ripening about the end of August,” and said to ripen well on a standard 
tree in Normandy, “a climate so little different from our own, that it is to 
be presumed this kind will be found to possess the same property in 
England.” i 

16. The Washington Plum. Of uncertain origin, the parent tree being 
a sucker in a garden at New York, in the end of the last century, from 
whence plants were sent to R. Barclay, Esq., of Bury Hill, in 1819.“ It is 
certainly not surpassed in richness of flavour, beauty, and other geod quali- 
ties, by any. In flavour, it is fully equal to the Green Gage, and Coe’s 
Golden Drop ; and the beauty of its foliage, which is very remarkable, is 
quite unlike the usual shabby aspect of aplum tree.” Colour, a yellowish 
green ; form like that of the Green Gage, but much larger. 


Mitchell, J., F.J.B.S. and M.N.A: [?], Eleven Years Foreman to Messrs. 
Eames and Webb,. Professional New Ground Workmen and, Land- 
scape-Gardeners, and afterwards Steward of Stansted, in Sussex ; a man 
of great experience, and highly spoken of by a correspondent on whom 
we can rely: 

1. Dendrologia; or, a Treatise of Forest Trees, with Evelyn’s Sylva 

i revised, corrected, and abridged. London. 8vo. 145s. 


2. Sketches on Agriculture; or, Farmer’s Remembrancer. London, 
8vo. 12s. ; 


5, The Grazier’s Estimater. London. 8vo. Qs. éd. 


These works we shall perhaps analyse in future Numbers. In the mean 
time, should Mr. Mitchell come to London, we shall be happy toe make his 
personal acquaintance. 


Pontey, Mr. William, Nurseryman and Landscape-Gardener at Hudders- 
field; a strong-minded man, of great experience as a practical planter : 
The Profitable Planter, a Treatise on the Theory and Practice of Plant- 
ing Forest Trees, in every Description of Soil and Situation. London. 
8vo, plates, 4th edit. 10s. 6d. 


A well known and justly esteemed work. It is some years since we had 
the pleasure of seeing its author; we regret to hear that he is in bad 
health ; should he see this, we hope he will convince us that he is still able 
to write, by becoming one of our contributors. 


Steuart, Sir Henry, Bart., LL.D. F.R.S.E. &c.: The Planter’s Guide ; 
or, a Practical Essay on the best Method of giving immediate Effect to 
Wood, by the Removal of large Trees and Underwood; being an At- 
tempt to place the Art on fixed Principles, and to apply it to general 
Purposes, useful and ornamental; chiefly intended for the Climate of 
Scotland. Edinburgh. svo, 5 plates, pp. 475. 18s. 


We have just received this work in time to say that it appears to be one 
of great interest, both to the planter and landscape-gardener. In future 
Numbers we shall analyse it in detail; in the mean time, from a very slight 
glance, we can see that it deseryes a place in every country gentleman’s 
brary, where it ought to be placed between the new edition of Evelyn’s 
Sylva, by Mitchell, just published by Baldwin and Co., and Price’s Essays 
on the Picturesque. Gardeners may safely speak of it to their employers. ; 


British Almanac. E 461 


The British Almanac, for the Year MDCCCXXVIII. 9s. 5d. 


This work is published under the superintendence of the Society for the 
Diffusion of Useful Knowledge ; and this single service, if the Society never 
perform any other, will render the public for ever its debtors. The influence 
of the common almanacs of Moore and of Partridge upon country people, and 
especially upon mothers and children of the lowest classes, is as great as that 
of the Bible and the Shorter Catechism in Scotland. The compilations, bearing 
the names of Moore and Partridge, to which we allude, originally appeared 
above a century ago, and they continue to be published with much of the 
astrological predictions and prophetic imposture peculiar to that time. 
“ These works profess, in the plainest terms, to foretell the weather, even 
to a day, stating that on one day there will be rain, on another snow, and 
on a third thunder. They also prophesy as to political events with nearly 
equal confidence, though not quite so distinctly. Thus, one says that at a 
particular time “there will arrive good news from Cadiz, Scotland, and 
Naples ;’ and another tells you that, about such a date, ‘a great minister 

will be impeached,’ or ‘a dignitary of the church driven from his prefer- 
ment.’ Nor are they free from party politics. One gives intimations, and 
even prints, of a nature calculated to set different religious sects in conflict ; 
and another dates the year as the 150th from the ‘ horrid Popish Jacobite 
plot ;’ thus keeping alive, for the purpose of exciting religious animosity, 
the memory of transactions which are a disgrace to the character of this 
country, and the worst blot upon the history of its law; affirming as real 
crimes in a great degree imaginary, and grossly mistaking even the notions 
respecting that plot which prevailed at the time. Some parts of these 
almanacs are not marked by much regard to decency; but there are others, 
also greatly circulated, which are utterly obscene, and could never be ad- 
mitted into any decent house, had not habit unfortunately reconciled the 
community to such things, as well as to the absurdities of their astrology.” 
— Introduce. 

When it is mentioned that the sale of these works exceeds: annually 
500,000, some idea may be conceived of the tendency which they have to 
perpetuate notions which are far more adverse to the diffusion of enlight- 
ened ideas than ignorance itself. An ignorant mind will imbibe knowledge 
when it is presented; a mind prejudiced or bigoted repels every idea not 
in accordance with those already there. The one case is like sowing on a 
fallow field, the other like sowing on a field of weeds. The British Almanac 
is a combination of all that is good or founded on truth in the other 
almanacs, and contains, besides, a variety of original matter. There are 
some excellent preliminary observations on the weather; useful directions 
for each month, including a gardener’s calendar, drawn up, we have reason 
for believing, by our correspondent, Mr. Main; the management of a farm, 
by another of our correspondents; the preservation of health, and medi- 
cinal plants which should be gathered monthly, attributed to Professor Dr. 
A. T. Thomson; and a variety of other matter of every day utility, respect- 
ing government, legislation, morals, education, and commerce, furnished by 
different individuals of high scientific and literary attainments. 

No power but that of the government, or such a society as the pro- 
moters of the British Almanac, could have attacked, with any hope of 
success, so powerful a body as the Stationers’ Company. The publication 
of such an almanac was therefore a work peculiarly fitting for them to 
undertake. That it will have the effect of reforming those to be published 
by this Company in future, there can be no doubt, and though it would be 
too much to expect that the opinions which have been disseminated by this 
Company will be rooted out from the present generation, yet it is some- 
thing to have paved the way for saving from a portion of mental slavery 
the generations to come. 


4.62 Tasmanian Almanac. 


There is scarcely a country labourer who does not purchase an almanac, 
and we rely upon every reader, at all events, upon every gardener, pur- 
chasing and recornmending that which, as a man of honesty and liberal 
principles, he cannot but consider as the best. f 

The Library of Useful Knowledge continues to be published regularly. 
The last number (xviil.) is the second part of Lord Bacon’s Novum Or- 
ganon Scientiarum. We mention these treatises, because one of them, 
No. xiv., parti. of Vegetable Physiology, is peculiarly in our way. It is 
attributed to Professor A. T. Thomson, and may be easily recognised as his, 
by those who are acquainted with the subject, by the great care and pains 
with which it is composed, by the number of explanatory wood-cuts, by 
the appropriation of the discoveries of Dutrochet (p. 78.), and by a number 
of original discoveries and views made by the Professor himself The num- 
ber of wood engravings in this sixpenny tract is no fewer than 81. As the 
subject is deeply interesting to every gardener and farmer, and the price 
may almost be called merely nominal, we should be sorry to suppose that 
there is a single journeyman or apprentice gardener so dead to his own 
interest as not to become a purchaser. 


AUSTRALASIA. 


Busby, James: A Treatise on the Culture of the Vine, and the Art of 
making Wine ; compiled from the works of Chaptal, and ether French 
writers; and from the Notes of the Compiler, during a residence in some 
of the Wine Provinces of France. Australia, 1825. 8vo, pp. 270. 


This is the first book which has been printed in N.S. Wales, being 57 years 
after the first landing in that country. It is a judicious compilation from 
French and English works on the same subject, and will prove highly useful. 


Bent, Mr. Andrew, Editor and Printer of the Colonial Times Newspaper : 
The Tasmanian Almanac for 1827. Hobart Town. 18mo. 


We notice this work chiefly on account of the gardener’s calendar 
which it contains, and from which a very good idea may be formed of the 
kitchen-gardening of that part of the world. The spring months in Van 
Dieman’s Land are September, October, and November. Potatoes are 
stated to be successfully cultivated, putting in the garden crop about the 
10th of September, and the field crop from the beginning of October to 
the 10th of December. “A garden winter crop may be planted in January 
or February.” New potatoes are generally obtained by the 1st of Decem- 
ber, which is there the first month of summer. The Swedish turnip is said 
to grow enormously large here; it is sown where it is to remain, and also 
transplanted. Asparagus is grown with much success. Cauliflowers “ do 
well twice a year, but are generally planted in the months of August and 
September ;”’ at no period of their growth is glasses or frames necessary. 
“Peas and beans may be cultivated near the sea coast in almost any season ; 
but for a general crop, throughout the interior and places subject to frost, 
they should not be planted earlier than the first or middle of July; and it 
is advisable that the ground should be as strong as possible, and even that 
a little manure should be added.” The climate and soil are said to be par- 
ticularly adapted for onions, which are sown in the last week of April. The 
potato onion is very productive, and is planted in May, the last week of 
their autumn. Carrots and parsnips grow to an extraordinary size. Cu- 
cumbers, pompions, and melons are cultivated with much success ; they are 
raised under glass during winter and spring, and in summer grown on dung 
beds in the open air. Cabbages do well at any season. Turnips grow to 
an extraordinary size. Artichokes are very large. Leeks are transplanted in 
the month of April. Horseradish, common red radish, lettuce, celery, and 
shallots, are enumerated as “ doing well.” It is stated that, “ as all kinds 


Tasmanian Almanac. 463 


of vegetables pay uncommonly well for the expense and labour of planting, 
it would be advisable for the small settler residing near Hobart Town, to 
give his particular attention to their culture ; indeed, too much time could 
not be bestowed in this occupation, as it would afford him a certain means 
of supporting his family, by supplying the shipping and the town. But it 
may not be useless to add, that a much more considerable portion of care 
is required to secure horticultural success in this colony than in England ; 
and as the summer rains are not to be depended upon, it is pressingly ex- 
pedient that no garden should be made on too steep a rising ground, down 
which the moisture would drain before it could assist vegetation,” 

Fruit Gardens. — Under this head it is stated that the produce of grapes 
is wonderfully great; that “ this fruit will no doubt, in the course of a few 
years, be of considerable benefit to the colony, not only to supply wines 
for our consumption, but for exportation, as one gentleman last year made 
upwards of 200 gallons from the produce of his own garden.” Strawberries 
“ crow wonderfully to leaf in this country, and are not of certain produce ; 
but the fruit is always very fine.” Raspberries “ are a favourite fruit, of 
certain produce, and extremely delicious.” Mulberries are highly flavoured, 
and the tree bears as well as it does in England, if not better. The 
apple and peach are the two most plentiful fruits in the island. “The 
apple is so astonishingly prolific, that instances have been known of very 
young trees having borne fruit the season immediately after they were 
grafted.” The cherry, especially the Kentish, appears to be very well 
adapted for this climate. Pears are uncommonly productive. Filberts and 
cobnuts have not yet borne, but walnuts and chestnuts have. The fig tree 
bears much fruit, but the frosts of autumn set in before it arrives at matur- 
ity. The elder grows in several places, and wine of a very superior quality 
has already been made of the berries. The green gage and damson plum 
are becoming plentiful. Currants and gooseberries grow luxuriantly. The 
quince bears abundantly, and the loquat has been introduced, and ripened 
fruit. i 

Forest Trees and Shrubs. —“ Swect briar, English hawthorn, the broom, 
the furze, and in fact every other plant and shrub grow luxuriantly in this 
climate, and perhaps more so than in any other part of the world. The 
English oak, and a great number of other favourite trees, are also growing 
in many places here in the greatest luxuriance. Among those lately intro- 
duced into the colony are, the sweet Spanish chestnut, as well as the com- 
mon horsechestnut, the oak, the beech, the ash, the fir, the Norfolk pine, 
and the willow.” 

It is curious to observe the gardening instructions of the almanac of a 
new country concluding with injunctions to plant timber trees for the 
benefit of posterity. In new countries cutting down is generally much 
more necessary than planting; that this should not be the case here, proves 
how very favourable the situation is for British emigrants. In point of 
soil and climate, indeed, we believe Van Dieman’s Land to come nearer 
to England than to any other country in the world, and the consequence 
is, that every gardening and agricultural plant and practice of England, may 
be considered the plants and practices of Van Dieman’s Land. 

We are sorry to find that the Zasmanian Almanac is not without a 
fragment of the bad part of the common almanacs of the mother country. 
We did not expect to meet, in a work compiled by the Editor of the 
Colonial Times, “ the dominion of the moon in man’s body passing under 
the twelve zodiacal constellations,’ People in the agricultural stage of 
domestication, living in log-houses and cooking their own dinners, one 
would think, would harily find time to attend to the corporal pains for 
every day in the year. But a hint is sufficient, and we have no doubt the 


example of the British Almanac (p. 461.) will be followed in future editions 
OF that, of Tasmania. 


4.64 


PART IU. 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. I. Foreign Notices. 


FRANCE. 


SupPPosED Influence of the Moon. —'There is an impression very general 
with gardeners, that the moon has a particular effect on plants, especially in 
certain months. The gardeners near Paris gave the name of the /une 
roussé to the moon which, beginning in April, becomes full either at the 
end of the month, or more generally i in May. According to them, the 
light of the moon, in the months of April and May, injures the shoots of 
plants ; and, when the sky is clear, the leaves and buds exposed to this 
light Became red or brewn, and are killed, though the thermometer in the 
atmosphere i is several degrees above the freezing point; they confirm this 
observation by remarking that, when the rays of the moon are stopped in 
consequence of the existence of clouds in the air, that then the plants are 
not injured, although the temperature and other circumstances are the 
same.” 

M. Arago explains this observation of practical men by a reference to the 
facts and ‘principles established by Dr. Wells. He has shown that, in a 
clear night, exposed bodies may frequently have their temperatures reduced 
below that of the surrounding atmosphere, solely by the effect of radiation, 
the difference being as mucli as six, seven, ten, or more degrees, but that it 
does not take place when the heavens are obscured. M. Arago then 
observes that the temperature is often more than four, five, or six “deer ees 
above the freezing point during the nights of April and May, and that 
when the night is clear, consequently, when the moon is bright, the tem- 
perature of the leaves and buds may often be brought, by radiation, below 
the freezing point, whilst the air remains above it, “and, consequently, an 
effect be produced, which, though not dependent upon, accompanies the 
brilliant unobserved state of the moon; the absence of these injurious 
effects, when the moon is obscured, being also as perfectly accounted for 
by these principles, from the knowledge that the same clouds which obscure 
the moon will prevent the radiation of heat from the plants. Hence, as M. 
Arago remarks, the observation of the gardener is correct as far as it goes, 
though the interpretation of the effect which he generally gives is incorrect. 
(Annuaire du Bureau des Long., Bul.Un., and Quar. Jour., October, 1827.) 

Destruction of Snails by common Salt. — M. Em. Rousseau had ‘applied 
common salt as a manure to a small piece of garden, and remarked that 
where snails had come in contact with the salt they quickly died. Wishing 
to confirm the fact, he strewed some salt upon the ground, and placed a 
number of snails amongst it; all those which came out of their shells and 
touched the salt immediately threw out a greenish globular froth, and in a 
few minutes were dead. The fact may be turned to account by agricul- 
turists and gardeners. (Bul. Un. and Brande’s Jour., Jan., 1828, p.493.) 


Foreign Notices. — Portugal, North America. 465 


_ A much more effectual mode of destroying snails, worms, and similar 
Insects, and one with which, unlike salt, there is no danger of injuring 
plants, is the use of lime water. Nothing astonishes us more than the 
tardy dissemination of this fact among gardeners. 

Importing Orange and other Trees from France is sometimes resorted to 
on the principle of economy; but the result is not unfrequently the reverse, 
in consequence of the enormous expense of carriage and shipping charges. 
A case has lately come to our knowledge, in which the shipping charges on 
some trees in tubs from Rouen came to three times the price of what 
the trees could be purchased for in London. We would recommend 
those who order garden articles from abroad, to contract for their delivery 
in a British port at a certain price, free of all charges whatever. Some- 
thing like the cost of the articles will then be ascertained beforehand. 


PORTUGAL. 


Elvas, November 15.—St. Martin’s is the day fixed for proving 
the quality of the new wines, which this year prove remarkably good; but 
the quantity is very small, about one fourth of last year’s crop, or not so 
much. The price last year was from 600 to 700 reis (2s. 6d. to 5s.) per 
almunda (42 galls.) in Borba; in Vella Born it is lower. The method of 
making wines here is much cleaner than in the neighbourhood of Lisbon. 
The grapes are spread on a clean brick floor, in the centre of which is a cis- 
tern to receive the juice, and are broken by men trampling upon them with 
wooden shoes. The pulp is then collected and pressed. After the ferment- 
ation, it is put into large earthen pots, containing from 52 to 57 almundas 
(a pipe and a quarter). At the top of the jar they pour oil upon the wine, 
and add no other covering. When they want to prove it, they blow the 
oil aside with their breath, and take out a small quantity of wine in a little 
cork dish ; they say any thing else will injure it.. There are wines of many 
ditferent qualities, white and red, and both excellent. The best quality of 
red is the Bastard and White, of the flavour of Bucellas; but the trans- 
portation is so enormous, together with the duties and other expenses that 
none can in the present state of things ever find its way to Lisbon. 

The collecting of the olives has just commenced, and their quality never 
was surpassed, and the quantity not often equalled. ‘The olives here are 
not the little black fruit you see in the north of Italy, but of a fine bright 
green, very fleshy, and some as large as plums. The trees have not that 
sombre appearance, which is so tiresome in the north of Italy: here they 
are regularly pruned, and the leaf has a rich velvety appearance. The 
country is thickly covered with them, and, from its diversity of hill and 
dale, forms a delightful prospect at every season of the year. 

Every inch beneath these is cultivated, and produces fine crops of wheat, 
beans, peas, &c.; Indian corn is not cultivated in this quarter. From the 
month of October asparagus springs up wild among the other crops, which 
is plentiful until the month of June, and many persons get a living by bring- 
ing it to market ; it is sold at from 15 to 30 reis (3d. to 13d.) per bundle, 
a very respectable quantity, quite as much as one person can eat. In the 
spring artichokes are uncommonly plentiful, and are sold at from 20 to 50 
per penny ; they also grow wild. They are rounder than ours, and the bot- 
tom parts more fleshy, and of excellent flavour. (Newsp., Nov.) 


NORTH AMERICA. 


Linnean Botanic Garden, Flushing, Long Island, near New York, Dec. 6. 
1827. — Dear Sir, I lately sent you a barrel of different sorts of apples, and 


Vou. III. — No. 12. HH 


466 Foreign Notices. — North America. 


some potatoes and wine; and I have just shipped yon a present of the fol- 
lowing plants, which I hope you will receive safe : 

y Maclira aurantiaca mascula, a fine old plant. 

Bérberis Aquifolium. 

ine these two plants I have never received less than from four to five 
guineas each. 

3. Sine qua non Apple. One of the very finest early apples, of a green 
colour, and high flavour. 

4. Monstrous Pippin, or New York Gloria Mundi. One of the largest 
American apples, an autumn and early winter fruit ; white colour and good 
flavour; slightly acid. [Is this the large apple formerly known in Scotland 
by the name of Monstrous Reinette ?—J. M,] 

5. Red Baldwin. An apple held in great estimation, 

6. Prince’s Duke. ‘The largest of American cherries. 

7. Plumstone Morello. ‘The largest of Morellos, with an eye shaped 
like that of a plum. 

g. Jaques’s Yellow Rare Ripe. A new peach of superior quality. 

9. Diana. A beautiful peach. 

10. Prince’s Red Rare Ripe. A very fine freestone peach. 

11. Yellow Mélecoton. A very luscious freestone peach; yellow, with a 
red cheek. 

12. Amfedalus communis flore pléno. I do not observe this mentioned 
in the London catalogues. 

15. Prince’s St. Germain Pear. The fine hybrid referred to in your 
Magazine (vol. ii. p. 90.), and which was originated by cross feeundation, 
long before I ever heard of an attempt of the kind having been made. 

14, Quércus ambigua of Pursh, borealis of Michaux. Very rare. 

15. Elk-horn Cherry. Very large, black ; ripens here two weeks after the 
Black ‘Tertarian. The fruit is remarkable for its leathery or liver-like con- 
sistence. 

16. Grand Sachem Apple. A new fruit, much admired. 

17. Ribes aureum fractu favo. 

1s. Vitis Labrdsca var. {sabélla. The grape most celebrated here as a 
great bearer, and the {fruit yielding such wine as the sample heretofore sent 
you. Guite hardy. 

19. Double Blue Hibiscus syriacus, 

Ze: Double Red Hibiscas syriacus, 

. Kenrick’s Heath. A much esteemed freestone peach. 

22. Prince’s Gage Plum. A seedling of the green gage; the fruit very 
large and fine. 

25. Prince’s Late Virgouleuse Pear. A seedling of St. Michael’s. 

24. Rosa parviflora pléna. A very delicate blush American rose, flower- 
ing from July to winter; found double i in a wild state. 

25. White Gage Plum. ~ 

In the extracts from’ my letters (p. ©7.), you make me state that this es- 
tablishment has been conducted by me for nearly eighty years: it should 
have been by my father and myself for eighty years. I hope [have procured 
for you as correspondents, George Carter, Esq., Oatland Mills, Virginia, 
and General Forman, of Maryland. I will also recommend other intelligent 
gentlemen in different sections of our country to become contributors to 
your work. Jam, dear Sir, &c.— Wiliam Prince. 

For so magnificent a present we retura our best thanks to Mr. Prince. 
if he or any of his family should ever come to England, we hope to be able 
to show him or them that we have taken good care of so many valuable 
articles. We have published the list for the benefit of nurserymen and 
others, who may wish to order the same things. We should be sorry to be 
exclusively in possession of them. 


; New seedlings originated here. 


Domestic Notices. — England. 467 


Art. II. Domestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


THE supplying of London with pure Water has of late occupied a good 
deal of the public attention. According to the Report of a Committee 
appointed to enquire into the subject, and according to all the public 
journals, except the journal “ edited at the Royal Institution of Great Bri- 
tain,” no water procured from the Thames, between Greenwich and Brent- 
ford, can be considered pure. A supply must therefore be obtained either by 
intercepting other rivers proceeding from the north or south to the Thames, 
- or by intercepting a portion of the Thames between Brentford and Windsor. 
Supposing the situation of two reservoirs to be Blackheath and the neigh- 
bourhood of Primrose Hill; then a canal course from each of these reser~ 
voirs, with the same rise as that of the New River, might proceed westward, 
following the inclination of the ground, descending under roads and navigable 
canals, and passing circuitously by houses and gardens in the usual way, 
till at last the two canals intercepted the Thames; the supply thus pro- 
cured would be adequate to London with thrice its present population, and 
a great deal might be spared from the canals in their progress, for domes- 
tic, agricultural, or gardening purposes. A walk or road accompanying 
these canals might be rendered most ornamental, and would form an ad- 
mirable and desirable addition to the sources of recreation of the metro- 
polis. Invalid soldiers might be stationed all along this road, to prevent 
idle persons from throwing any thing into the water, and for the general 
purposes of patrols and watchmen. 

The Thames Tunnel.— Few works have excited more public interest 
than this new and gigantic undertaking. It is impossible not deeply to 
admire the original ingenuity of the scheme, and the skill and perse- 
verance, in carrying it into execution, of the inventor and engineer, Mr. 
Brunel. The accidents which have occurred under so eminent an en- 
gineer, may be considered as proving that no human skill could foresee 
the difficulties of the undertaking. We trust, however, it will ulti- 
mately be accomplished. So great is the public sympathy with Mr. 
Brunel’s situation, that, since the late accident about the beginning of 
this year, he has received no fewer than 300 written suggestions for a 
remedy, besides upwards of 200 verbal suggestions. (See Mr. Brunel’s 
letter in the Times, Jan.26.) A number of plans for such a tunnel, all 
differing from that invented by Mr. Brunel, have appeared in different pub- 
lications. As far as we have been able to judge of these plans, as com- 
pared with Mr. Brunel’s, we think none of them equal to his, where the 
bed of a river is of perfectly solid earth; but, where the bed is so little 
to be depended upon as that of the Thames, it appears to us that the plan 
of enclosing the space for the tunnel in small portions at a time, digging 
out the earth up to the surface, or to the day, as the miners term it, and 
building the arch so that its summit may be merely a yard or two below the 
water, would have been the safest and cheapest mode. It is not, however, 
applicable where Mr. Brunel’s plan has been commenced, and is therefore 
only mentioned here with a view to future tunnels under rivers. It is 
highly satisfactory to learn from Mr. Brunel’s letter, that almost the whole 
of the 500 suggestions alluded to, concur in the principle which he has 
adopted, viz. that of stopping the breach by a covering above. A public 
subscription has been opened, by which, we have no doubt, a sum sufficient 
to complete the work will be raised. Perhaps, also, something might be 
got by ne sale of tickets, to pass through the tunnel when finished, at 1s. 
each, or for perpetual pass-tickets, transferable at a larger sum. 


Vou. III. —- No. 12. *uy H 2 


~ 


468: Domestic Notices. — England. 


We should wish every gardener to subscribe ; because there is something 
grand in feeling an interest and sympathy in public works and national 
undertakings, and because we would wish every gardener to participate in 
generous and elevating sentiments. Joining in a subscription is a sensible 
evidence to ourselves and others of this feeling; and, therefore, we hope 
every gardener, who would not wish to be considered destitute of soul, 
patriotism, or philanthropy, will put down something, however little. The 
amount of the subscription has nothing to do with the feelimg connected 
with it; the noblest and the most useful subscriptions are those that are 
made in the smallest coin. The idea of accomplishing a great national 
undertaking, at a penny a head, volunteered by men, women, and children 
of all ranks, is sublime. The man who subscribes to a public work for 
the first time in his life, is using the means for giving a new impulse to the 
higher order of human feelings. He is adopting a course calculated to 
impress on the mind the consciousness of sentiments far above those which 
have reference merely, or chiefly, to self-preservation or advancement in 
the world ; and which in man, at a certain stage of his progress to intellec- 
tual enjoyment, must be hailed as a new sense. The influence of this im- 
pulse will be felt from that day to the end of life. To subscribe for the 
tunnel, for instance, wiil not only lend an interest to all that concerns that 
particular undertaking, but will give rise to sentiments of an order unex- 
perienced before, on the projection or execution of future tunnels, bridges, 
canals, and other public works. There is such a thing, as Mrs. Hoffland has 
observed, as a “ sense of elegant enjoyment.” It is elevating to feel ourselves 
connected with our country and mankind by sentiments common to great 
minds in all ages; and it is ennobling to reflect that the poorest of us may 
participate in these sentiments as well as the richest. There are many 
worthy persons who have a proper relish for personal and social comforts 
and enjoyments, who yet cannot rise so high as to partake of this feeling. 
But it is within the compass of human enjoyment, and therefore ought to 
be aimed at by every one who is desirous of making the most of the gift of 
life. Let every gardener, therefore, who has not subscribed to any public 
work before, take our advice, and try an experiment upon himself by 
giving something towards the completion of this tunnel. The highest 
amount which, under any circumstances, ought to be given by men so poor 
as we gardeners generally are, may be according to the following scale : ap- 
prentices, and journeymen in nurseries or out of place, 6d. each ; journeymen, 
and masters in nurseries or out of place, 1s. each ; masters in place, 2s. each. 
But we should be still better pleased with collections of the smallest coin, 
and should like to see in the list of subscriptions to the tunnel, published 
in the newspapers, such items as, “ Thirty gardeners out of place, now at 
work in Lee’s nursery at 12s. a week, 2s. 6d.” ‘“ The Subscribers to the 
Clapton Nursery Library, collected in halfpence, 3s.” &c. Tradesmen 
gardeners may subscribe what they please. 

English Elm.— Mr. Monteath advises planting the Scotch or wych elm, 
which, he says, is excellent timber, and used in ship-building. This may be 
the case, but surely it is inferior in every respect to the English elm; the 
latter possessing a property which few equally good forest trees have; and 
that is, when once planted m woods or hedge-rows (for which it is superior 
to all others), in suitable soil, it perpetuates itself by abundance of suckers 
from the root. This remark should be attended to by planters ; to choose 
young English elm plants raised from layers, and not such as have been 
grafted, which was once a practice in the public nurseries. (Brit. Farmer’s 
Magazine, p. 705.) 

- By comparing this paragraph with Cobbett’s opinion (p. 508.)the reader will 
learn how very differently practical men think on the same subject. It. is 
easy, however, to reconcile the opinions of Cobbett, Monteath, and the 


Domestic Notices. — England. 469 


reviewer in the Farmer’s Magazine, who is one of our principal correspon- 
dents. _Cobbett wishes to recommend his seedlings, raised from American 
seeds; Monteath has seen large trees of the Scotch elm in Scotland, but 
never of the English elm there; and the reviewer is chiefly conversant with 
the English elm, which we agree with him in considering one of the best of 
trees for hedge-rows, and one which will produce a greater bulk of 
straight timber on a given surface than any other. In pastures its suckers 
are troublesome, but in hedges and strips these are invaluable. With 
respect to a layer’s being always merely a limb of a tree, the assertion will 
only hold good under certain circumstances, such as layers made at the 
extremities of old branches; but even these, if once well rooted in good 
soil and cut over by the surface, will send up shoots; one of which being 
selected, and the rest removed, will become in all respects as bulky and 
valuable a tree as if it had been raised from seed; for it may be adopted 
as a law of vegetable nature, that buds, bulbs, and seeds are essentially the 
same. We know that some eminent men, both theoretical and practical, 
are of a different opinion, which is one reason why we have repeatedly 
stated our conviction on the subject, in order that it may lead to discussion 
and truth. 

The Zoological Garden, of which the projected plan was given some time 
ago in the Literary Gazette, continues to be carried into execution. Some 
very neat and judiciously contrived lodges for the birds and other animals 
are erected, and the whole is already well worth public inspection. When 
completed, the exhibition here will be one of the most interesting and 
original about the metropolis, and only equalled by that of the zoological 
department of the Jardin des Plantes at Paris. 

London University.—This building, the joint design of Wilkins and 
Gandy, two of the first of our architects, is proceeding with rapidity, and, 
it is calculated, will be open for public instruction in October next. The 
elevation is characterised by that simple, elegant grandeur which may truly 
be said to pervade all the Grecian buildings of Mr. Wilkins. When com- 
pleted, it will be one of the first ornaments of the metropolis; bemg in 
a style which has stood the test of many ages, and whose beauty will, like 
that of adead language, be as much approved and admired thousands of years 
hence as it now is, and as it was thousands of years ago. The professors 
already appointed are men of distinguished character. Our highly valued 
correspondent, Dr. A. T. Thomson, author of Lectures on Botany, a work 
the original and valuable views of which have been ably pointed out 
by our correspondent, Investigator, in a paper which will appear in a 
future Number, is appointed to the professorship of Materia Medica; and 
Dr. Grant to that of Zoology. It has been stated that ground for a botanic 
garden has been contributed by Dr. Fellowes, and we understand that 
there are differences of opinion as to the eligibility of the situation. 
It is very desirable that a garden should be obtained in the Regent’s Park, 
for the joint use of the Zoological Society and the University, on the plan 
of the Jardin des Plantes at Paris. We trust that a garden will be formed, and 
we have no doubt that presents of plants and seeds will be poured into it from 
all quarters, as specimens of plants, animals, and minerals, and curiosities of 
many kinds, will be sent to the museum. The funds for carrying on this noble 
feature of modern improvement are raised by the sale of shares of 100/. 
each, which are payable by instalments of 10 per cent. Shareholders who 
have children will possess many advantages in respect to their education ; 
and we should consider ourselves wanting in our duty to such gardeners 
and gentlemen’s farmers and stewards, as can afford to educate their sons 
for physic (the most universal of all professions), or for law (by which, 
being called to the bar, a man, however low his birth, is elevated to the 


‘Vot. III. — No. 12. re 3 


470 Domestic Notices. — England. 


rank of a gentleman), if we did not strongly recommend each parent so 
situated to purchase a share. An interest of 4 per cent. is guaranteed to 
the shareholders. A prospectus may be had at Mr. Murray’s, in Albemarle 
Street, and at the office of the University, in Percy Street. , 

Kensington Gardens, and the Parks adjoining —The erection of lodges 
for the doorkeepers, as suggested in our First Volume, p. 285., was com- 
menced last autumn, and has recently been completed. They are square 
boxes, with fire-places, chimneys built according to the plan of Mr. Hiort, 
which deserves universal adoption, boarded floors, and, with the exception 
of one of thatch, slated roofs. We are happy to see them, because we 
know they will add much to the comfort of the doorkeepers, without in- 
jury to the gardens or to any person or thing whatever. The bridge (Vol. I. 
p- 284. fig. 56.) is completed: it is, as we said it would be, a handsome 
object of itself; but, considered as a work of utility, a most egregious folly, 
and, in regard to the beauty of the scene of which it forms a part, an ex- 
crescence or monstrosity, which, by disturbing the harmony of what sur- 
rounds it, completely destroys the natural character of the grounds. In 
common parlance, it is too big for every thing. We are exactly of the 
opinion expressed (Vol. I. p. 280.) by our esteemed correspondent, Mr. 
Thomson (now in Australasia), as to what ought to have been done 
with Hyde Park as connected with Kensington Gardens; and, though it 
would be too much to expect that this bridge should be pulled down, we 
should like much to know, as our suggestion of removing the cascade has 
been adopted, what could be said against continuing the river to Hyde Park 
Corner, and under the road into the Green Park, on one level, as shown in 
Mr. Thompson’s plan. (Vol. I. p. 281.) Of the piece of water now forming 
in St. James’s Park, we shall say nothing till it is completed, though we 
cannot help thinking the form al style would have been better adapted for 
that very limited and formal sit uation. Many, we know, think the healthi- 
ness of that part of the metropolis would have been better consulted by 
having no water there at all. 

Labels for Trees. —I send you a sketch ( fig. 
169.), which will answer either for parchment or 
thin lead. For the common uses of the nursery- 
man, it may be of parchment, and written on 
with common ink; for sending trees abroad, or 
for agentleman’s grounds, it may be of thin sheet- 
lead, with letters or figures impressed on it by 
steel types; or the label may be painted white, 
and written on with oil paint of any dark colour. 
The advantage of this plan for permanently 
naming trees or shrubs in a gentleman’s grounds 
is, that as the branch increases in size, the label 
will give out. Yours, &c.— G. B.§& N. Lynn, 
October 3. 1827. 

Salt and the Vegetable Marrow.— Whether salt 
is manure appears to be still a question. I will 
relate a circumstance which occurred a few weeks 
ago. My attention was attracted by a dead leaf 
of vegetable marrow, of most singular appear- 
ance, which was grown on a piece of ground 
dressed with salt in the proportion of 30z. to 
each square yard; it was so fully impregnated 
with salt, which it absorbed from the soil, that 
it appeared in innumerable concretions on the 
surface, which presented a singular and beautiful appearance through 
a good microscope. The leaves of this plant abound with such a 


Domestic Notices. — Scotland. 471 


quantity of salt that it requires no chemical analysis to discover it; it 
is perfectly obvious to sight, touch, and taste. I shall. make no further 
observations on this case at present, but only remark that, if this is 
not decisive of the dispute, 1 think nothing can be. I herewith send 
you some of the leaves, and also some of the seeds, which were brought by 
a gentleman from the West Indies. It is an uncommonly great bearer, and 
of superior flavour to any other sort I ever tasted. The fruit should be 
gathered before they exceed 4 in. in length, and never should be allowed 
to remain on the vine longer than till they arrive at that size, unless you 
wish to save one for seed. The more you gather the more the plant will 
produce; but, if the fruit are allowed to grow large, the vine ceases to pro- 
duce more. — W. Green, jun. Stepney, August 51. 1827. 
_ A Transmitting-heat Wall for the Ripening of Fruit. — A patent for this 
improvement has been taken out by James Andrew Hunt Grubble, of Stan- 
ton, Saint Bernard, Wilts, clerk, dated January 9th, 1828; the specification 
to be given in six months. (Repertory of Arts, Feb., p. 159.) 

A fine Bunch of Asparagus was gathered in an open garden at Attercliffe, 
near Sheffield, on Christmas day last. (Sheffield Courant.) 


SCOTLAND. 


Leith Walk Linnean Society. —In April, 1815, about twenty of the jour 
neymen gardeners then employed in the Edinburgh College botanic garden 
and the Leith Walk nursery, formed themselves into a society for mutual 
instruction in matters relating to their profession. As the unsettled nature 
of their employment at the time prevented their entering into a permanent 
scheme, it was resolved, as an experiment, to devote the summer months to 
practical botany; and,as a preliminary step, to set about acquiring an accurate 
knowledge of the plants indigenous to the neighbourhood of Edinburgh. The 
meetings were held every Monday evening in a school-reom hired for the pur- 
pose. The subscription was 6d. each per week; the amount was laid out 
weekly in the purchase of elementary books, suited to the subject then 
under consideration. Willdenow’s Klements of, and Smith’s Introduction to, 
Botany, Hull’s British Flora, Martin’s Language of Botany, and the Hpitome of 
Hortus Kewensis, were soon procured. ‘The worthy president, Mr. Mackay 
(now of Clapton), favoured the Society with the use of Lightfoot’s Mora 
Scotica. Such formed the library at the outset ; the books were lent out 
to the best advantage, and seemed to answer. The plan adopted was to 
appoint two of the members weekly, in their turn, to proceed in certain 
directions, and to collect all the indigenous plants they found in flower, 
which were handed to the secretary to arrange and name previously to laying 
before the meeting. At the meeting, all the plants collected in the course 
of the week were exhibited, and their habitats stated; the descriptions were 
read by the president from Lightfoot’s Flora, and every term explained 
from Martin’s Language of Botany. 

By these means the members not only became practically acquainted 
with the native plants and their habitats, but they were gradually led into 
classification and terminology, in a way not unlikely to ix them on the 
memory. An alphabetical list of the plants examined was weekly handed 
to the collectors, in order that they might avoid gathering duplicates. In 
the course of the summer, most of the indigenous Flora of the neigh- 
bourhood were collected, and a great taste for rural botany, and a spirit of 
emulation, excited. In autumn, many of the members, as well as myself, 
left Edinburgh, to fill situations in various parts of the country ; those who 
remained commenced de novo next spring, but with what success I never 
heard. In the course of my peregrinations throughout the empire, I have 


HH 4 


4°72 Domestic Notices. — Ireland. 


met with several of the original members, filling highly respectable situa- 
tions, and who assured me that they looked back upon the summer of 1815 
as one of the most profitable and pleasant periods of their lives. —. 
G. W. Irvine. Dublin, March, 1827. 

Double Cropping.—A plot of ground, on which I had a crop of early 
peas, happened to be manured with the litter and sweepings of my potato 
cellar. After removing the haulm of the peas, I found the ground covered 
with young plants of potatoes. I had the surface stirred up, the weeds re- 
moved, and a shower of rain happening to come soon after, the plants grew 
vigorously. In a fortnight they appeared to be too thick; I therefore took 
up half of them, and planted them in rows, at the usual distance, on a piece 
of fresh ground. Soon after this, both crops were earthed up; the autumn 
being mild, they grew till November, and about the 12th of that month I 
dug them up, and found a very large crop of middle-sized potatoes. On 
trying them, I found them not very meally, because they were. not very 
ripe; but thinking that, according to the account of some of your cor-. 
respondents, they were all the better for seed, I laid them aside for that 
purpose, and have no doubt they will answer well. I do not mean to recom- 
mend, from this accidental circumstance, that peas and potatoes should be 
sown together, but only that, when occasion requires it, any straggling 
young potato plants that are found in a garden or field may be taken up 
and transplanted with advantage. It is too common, at least in this part 
of the country, to treat potato plants which have come up among other 
crops as weeds; but I have proved that, whenever it is desirable, they may 
be turned to profit. When wheat has been sown after potatoes, young 
potato plants very often come up early in spring; and, I am persuaded, 
cottagers who have gardens might turn them to good account, by lifting 
them at that season, and transplanting them into their gardens for an early 
crop. The farmer, at the same time, would be benefited, because, relatively 
to the wheat crop, they are weeds. But I merely throw out the hint for 
others to improve on. Dear Sir, yours, truly,— Charles Sidey, bookseller. 
Perth, Jan. 16. 1828. 

Edinburgh Botanic Garden, Dec. 10. 1827.—Dr. Graham has communi- 
cated to Jameson’s Journal the following names of rare plants which have 
flowered there during the preceding three months. Buddléia madagascarién- 
sis, Cassia opaca, Leonotis nepetifolia, Lodsa patula, Polemonium Richard- 
soni, Salpiglossis atropurpurea, Verbéna barbata. 


IRELAND. 


Agricultural Model School in the Province of Munster.— We are 
glad to perceive, from a little tract that has been sent us, (Outlines of a 
Plan for the Establishment of an Agricultural Model School in the Pro- 
vince of Munster, as recommended by the Irish Relief Committee in Lon- 
don of 1822, who appropriated Three Thousand Pounds of their remain- 
ing Funds to aid in carrying this object into effect. Cork. Edwards and 
Savage. Small 8vo, pp. 56.) that attention is beginning to be paid to the use- 
ful and scientific education of the agricultural classes. It appears that “ the 
London Relief Committee, in 1825, appropriated six thousand pounds of 
their remaining funds to the establishment of two agricultural schools, 
one in the province of Munster, the other in the province of Connaught ; 
and appointed resident committees in both provinces, to carry these, and 
other plans tending to improvement, into effect. Will it be believed 
that, after an interval of more than two years, no arrangements have been 
made to apply to their intended purposes, either in the province of Mun- 
ster or of Connaught, the three thousand pounds still at the call of each, 
for the establishment of agricultural schools?” (p. 5.) 


Florticultural Society and Garden. 473 


Jn the north, without this aid, near Londonderry, an agricultural and 
scientific seminary has been established, and is now in active operation. 
The object of the Munster school is excellent ; the motives, we have no 
doubt, are pure and patriotic; and if only a part of the good which is 
anticipated be the result, the consequences to Ireland cannot be otherwise 
than beneficial. The plan of combining labour with instruction is judicious ; 
because the one will give a zest to the other, and the former contribute to 
health and industrious habits at the same time. It is gratifying to contemplate 
In perspective the time, which, from the progress of things, must certainly 
one day arrive, when every gardener, agricultural labourer, and shepherd shall 
have received the education contemplated in the following paragraph; in 
other words, when all these different branches of knowledge shall be taught 
In every parish school in the empire, and when every parish school shall 
have a large garden attached. How much more agreeable, entertaining, 
and invigorating it would be for schoolmasters and their pupils to go 
through such a course of instruction, than through the dull, half-useless 
routine at present followed, every gardener who has spent half a dozen 
years of his life attending a parish school in Scotland can very well judge. 

“ The education of both classes of pupils should consist of a knowledge 
of nature, or of minerals, plants, and animals, including physical geography 
(termed natural history); of chemistry, analysing, making new compounds, 
and turning to use the component parts of these bodies; of mechanics, 
bringing under controul and rendering efficient, directing, concentrating, or 
diffusing, many of the motive-powers which chemistry and observation dis- 
cover; of as much of mathematics (or the knowledge of the relations of 
numbers and quantities) as may be necessary to surveying, civil engineer- 
ing, and other practical arts ; and of the practical application, by the pupils 
themselves, of these branches of knowledge, chiefly to agricultural operations, 
including the culture of gardens, fruit, and forest trees. Drawing, as weil 
as writing, should be taught, as a necessary accessary to the acquisition of 
all these branches of knowledge. History including geography, legislation, 
political economy including statistics, intellectual philosophy, peetry, and 
miscellaneous literature should be secondary objects occasionally lectured 
on, chiefly with a view to private cultivation by means of a well selected 
library. Music, dancing, and gymnastic exercises should be cultivated as 
amusements ; and facilities for such amusements should be afforded to the 
pupils.” (p. 9.) 

To all who are interested in the establishment of provincial schools in 
Ireland, or indeed in any country, we recommend the perusal of this little 
pamphlet. 


Art. III. Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Dec. 4.— Read. An account of Scotch Pears, by Mr. Archibald Gorrie, 
C.M.H.S. Description of a Hot-bed Frame, by Sir George Stewart Macs 
kenzie, Bart. F.H.S. : 

Exhibited. Fruit of the long variety of Li-tchi, from John Reeves, Esq., 
F.H.S. Anandssa bracteata, from Robert Barclay, Esq. F.H.S. Sturmer 
Pippins, and Apples unnamed, from Mr. E. Dillistone, of Sturmer. One 
hundred and twenty-three sorts of Apples, from the Herefordshire Hor- 
ticultural Society, sent by the Secretary, Richard Parkinson, Esq. News 
town Pippins and Calville Blanche Apples, from James Webster, Esq. F'.H.S. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Flowers of seven sorts of Chry- 
santhemums, four sorts of Pears, and five sorts of Apples. 

Dec. 18.— Read. An account of a new method of Grafting, by Mr. 
Alexander Diack, C.M.H.S. On the treatment of Mymphee‘a ribra, by 
Mr. Christie Duff, C.M.H.8. 


ATA Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Evhibited. Twenty-one sorts of Apples, from Richard Waring, M.D. 
F.H.S. Three sorts of Apples and seven sorts of Pears, from Mr. Peter 
Langelier, C.M.H.S. Twenty-one sorts of Apples, and specimens of Ameri- 
can St. Germain Pears, from the garden of George Tollit, Esq., of Bentley 
Hall, Staffordshire, sent by John Wedgewood, Esq. F.H.S. Two sorts 
of Apples, from Mr. Robert Donald, F.HS. Four sorts of Apples, from 
Mr. James Veitch, of Killerton. Seven sorts of Apples, from Josias Baker, 
Esq: F.H.S. Specimens of an Apple unnamed, and Bergamotte de la 
Pentecéte Pear, from Mr. James Young, F.H.S. Nonpareils, from Mr. John 
Maher, F.H.S. Various Seedling Apples, from Mr. John Oliver, gardener 
to the Earl Craven, at Croombe Abbey, Warwickshire. Pomo Caroli, from 
the Right Honourable Augustus John Foster, F.H.S., at Turin. _ Ive’s 
Seedling Apple, and a Seedling Pear from the Crassanne, from Mr, William 
Masters, F.H.S. . 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Two sorts of Apples, three sorts 
of Pears, four sorts of Succory, and two sorts of forced Potatoes. 

Jan. 1.— Read. A simplified method of marking Numbers on Tallies, 
by Sir George Stewart Mackenzie, Bart., F.H.S. 

Ewhibited. Fifty-five sorts of Apples from the Carse of Gowrie, from 
Patrick Mathew, Esq. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. large pale red and Ox-Noble 
Potatoes, forced in boxes in mould. Common Succory, forced in a dark- 
house. Asparagus, forced in beds in the open ground. Flowers of TY'ussi- 
lago fragrans and Chimonanthus fragrans ; Lemon’s Queen Pine-apple; St. 
Germain and Bergamotte de la Pentecote Pears. 

Jan 15.— Read. Observations upon temporary Copings for Garden 
Walls. By Alexander Seton, Esq. F.H.S. 

Exhibited. Newtown Pippins from America, Old Nonpareils, Old Golden 
Pippins, Colmar Pears, and St. Germain Pears. 

Also, from the Garden of the Society. Pastorale Pears, Blotched-leaved 
Succory, and common Succory forced in a dark-house. 

Heating by hot Water. —In the Horticultural Society’s library are some 
models illustrative of this mode of heating, which are well worthy the 
inspection of those who do not clearly understand the scheme. We would 
also recommend the inspection of a variety of models for the same pur- 
pose at Messrs. Cottam and Hallen’s manufactory, Winsley Street, opposite 
the Pantheon, Oxford Street. Mr. Cottam, at the suggestion of Mr. Cubit, 
the engineer, has made a very important improvement on the construction 
of the boilers, and also an addition of air tubes to the pipes; both of 
which are calculated to procure additional heat from the fuel expended, 
and circulate the water with greater rapidity. 

The Fear of giving Offence. —Sir, You have, in different parts of your 
excellent Magazine, stated various advantages and disadvantages that _re- 
sult to horticultural science from the power and influence of the Horticul- 
tural Society; but it appears to me that you have totally overlooked one 
evil. It is this: many gardeners who are your friends, and who are capable 
of contributing much interesting and valuable matter to your Magazine, 
are deterred from doing so from a fear of offending individuals in office 
and power in the Horticultural Society. I could name a great number of 
instances, and I dare say you cannot he ignorant of some of them yourself ; 
and it rather surprises me that you have not taken some notice of the cir- 
cumstance. It certainly deserves to be recorded in your pages, were it 
only to let posterity know the state of horticultural feeling of the times in 
which we live. Iam, Sir, &c.— A Wellwisher. Dec. 20. 1827. 

What our correspondent states is perfectly correct, and he might have 
added to his last sentence, “ and the obligations of the Gardener’s Magazine 
to its independent supporters.” We have had many letters to the same 
effect, but we really do not believe that gardeners are more afraid of giving 


Linnean Society. A75 


offence to the Horticultural Society than many of their masters. Gar- 
deners, like other men, are no doubt wise in their generation, and will 
not give wilful offence in any quarter whence they might receive a service ; 
but are gentlemen less feelingly alive to the supposed advantages of getting 
seeds or grafts from the Society ? Both parties act wisely. — Cond, 


Art.IV. Linnean Society. 


FEB. 5. 1828. — Read. Part of a paper, entitled “ Remarks on the Flora 
of Great Britain, as connected with Geography and Geology? By J.E. 
Bicheno, F'.R.S. Sec. Lin. Soc. 

The author proposes, in this paper, to make some observations on the 
geography of plants, which has lately attracted so much attention ; but, in- 
stead of connecting plants with particular temperatures, which has been the 
chief object of those who have preceded him, he wishes to extend his sub- 
ject, and to show how far geological structure may have contributed to 
extend or limit the range of plants upon the earth’s surface. 

Before entering upon this question, he thinks it necessary to ascertain 
what plants are really indigenous, and what have been introduced and pro- 
pagated by artificial means. This he regards as raising many curious enqui- 
ries. For example, among other instances he says that Cordénopus didyma 
is with us a coast plant, and that, whether the traveller goes to Lisbon, or 
Madeira, or the Cape, or Sydney, in all these places he will find this species, 
to which it is not indigenous. He thinks the Cruciferae, as a family, have 
many of them this migratory disposition. Sisymbrium {ilo and. 7'hlaspi 
arvénse are among the number. 

He rejects also, as unfit for indicating geological strata, all those plants 
which follow the footsteps of man. Such are the Chenopodez, the mug- 
wort, the docks, the plantains, and the mallows. Wherever, in Europe, 
man plants his habitation, even at the height of 7 or 8000 feet above the 
level of the sea, there we may expect to find many of these species follow- 
ing after him. _ 

Then he would set aside plants which affect towns and villages, as not 
assisting him. Those localities offer many curious attachments, and com- 
prehend a much larger class than is commonly thought. Chamomile is 
found on every green about London, yet does not appear to be indigenous 
there. Superstition, medical and religious, has contributed again to every 
Flora. He then went on to state that many species terminate their north- 

‘ern range on walls, such are Teticrium Chamee‘drys, Holésteum umbella- 
tum, Antirrhinum majus, &c. &c. ; many, again, upon the sea shore, where 
the temperature favours their growth; many upon strata which are of a 
warmer nature, and which the same species is not inclined to in more 
southern latitudes. He asserts that plants become a delicate test of strata 
as they approach their limits ; and that many which have no choice of soil 
at their head-quarters, are observed to be very select when they get to their 
northern boundary. (See Gard. Mag., vol. il. p. 405.) 

Description of a splendid new Genus of Plants from Ava, by Dr. Wal- 
lich, and which he has named, in compliment to the Countess Amherst, 
Ambhérstia nébilis, Diadélphia Decandria, and Leguminosz. 

The Amhérstia is a large tree, with the habit of Erythrina; leaves 2 ft. 
long, composed of 8 or 10 pair of large leaflets of a delicate glaucous colour. 
The cluster of flowers is pyramidal, 2 ft. or more in length, with a peduncle 
of 15 in.; the whole of a brilliant scarlet. The petals are 1 in. in breadth, 
each furnished with a yellow spot at the apex. Four trees have only as 


476 Covent Garden Market. 


yet been found by Dr. Wallich. Dr. Wallich also notices another remark- 
able genus, which he has named Phytocrene (literally, plant spring), allied 
to Araliaceze. Its trunk is as thick as a man’s thigh; and, on being 
divided, yields a large quantity of a limpid, tasteless, and very wholesome 
water. The plant is well known to the natives. 


Art. V.. Covent Garden Market. 


Tue mild open winter renders our supply of all common “vegetables 
abundant and cheap. Fine white broccoli, at from 1s. to 2s. per bunch of 
six or eight heads; purple broccoli, at the same price per bunch of from eight 
to ten heads; sea-kale, from 1s. 6d. to 4s. per pumnet, or dish ; asparagus, 
plentiful and cheap, at from 1s. to 8s. per hundred; onions, from 2s. to 
3s. 6d. per bushel. Potatoes, English Kidneys, 4/.; Scotch Reds, from 5/. to 
31. 10s.; Marsh Champions, from 3/. 10s. to 4/.; Ox-nobles and Shaws, 
from 2/. 10s. to 52; per ton. A large supply of Newtown Pippins has been 
imported, but they arrived in bad order; the best sell at from 2s. to 3s. per 
dozen. The best apple generally received from France is the Reinette Grise ; 
but of this sort few have come over this season, and they are consequently 
dear. Kitchen apples of our own growth are from 7s. to 10s. per bushel. 
—J.G. Jan. 26. 

February 9.— Savoy cabbages, from 1s. 6d. to 3s. per dozen heads. 
Horseradish, from 1s. 6d. to 4s.; broccoli, from 2s. to 5s. ; forced asparagus, 
from 3s. to 9s.; and celery, from Is. to 2s. per bundle. Carrots, from 4s. 6d. 
to 8s.; turnips, from 2s. to 4s.; coleworts, or greens, from 1s. 9d. to 4s. ; 
and leeks, from 1s. to 1s. 6d. per dozen bunches. Spinach, from 1s. to 1s. 6d. ; 
apples, from 3s. 6d. to 10s.; and pears, from 2s. 6d. to 10s. per half sieve. 
About athird of a bushel walnuts, from 1s. to 2s. ; new sweet oranges, from 
4s. to 8s.; Seville oranges, from 8s. to 10s.; and lemons, from 8s. to 10s. 
per hundred. Spanish chestnuts, from 4s. 6d. to 10s.; French chestnuts, 
from 3s. 6d. to 7s.; Spanish hazel nuts, from 3s. to 6s.; and French 
walnuts, from 3s. to 6s. per peck. Grapes, from 1s. 6d. to 3s. per lb.; sea- 
kale, from 2s. to 3s. per punnet. Supply good. Trade rather dull. Prices 
about as on this day sennight. - ; 

New and old Measures.—Is the act of parliament concerning measures 
a nullity, or isitin foree? Look at the measures of this and all other mar- 
kets; half sieves, from 9 to 10 quarts, and bushel baskets, so called, about 
3 pecks! The variation in the measures spoils more of the houséwife’s 
made wines than any thing else. If they buy from a conscientious grower, 
they get 24 quarts of currants to the sieve; from another only 18; and as 
two sieves were the quantity, if I recollect right, my good mother used to 
an 18-gallon cask, you may suppose the difference which trusting to measure 
would make. I really think this wants a little of your pen. I believe, 
without the party declaring the contents of his measure, according to the 
imperial standard, he cannot recover his demand. If it is so, a few refusals 
to pay would bring the Winchester measurers to their senses. I know no 
better way of paying a cheat than in his own coin. — Superficial. Brixton 
Villa, Jan. : 


Art. VI. Architecture. 


BucrincuaAm Palace.— We have formerly (Vol. 11. p.371.), expressed 
our approbation of the garden front of this building, and regret to be obliged 


Architecture. An7T 


to indicate, in common with almost every other journalist, a very contrary 
feeling with respect to the entrance front,-and the angular and side views 
of this edifice. These display a want of simplicity, grandeur, and dignity. 
There are too many parts, and consequently most of them are small; there is 
an unhappy termination of a wall with Doric columns at the extremes of 
the two wings, indicating poverty of mvention, one of the last defects 
which we should expect to find in Mr. Nash. Two elevated vulgar forms, 
one in each wing, resemble what are called cockney cottages, and seem 
to be forced up into that situation as finishings to the regal building. We 
wonder how they came there, and can hardly restrain our conviction that 
they really are blue slate cottages, from the small bedroom windows in their 
sides. There never was a more unhappy introduction of vulgar forms in a 
building pretending to the character of a palace. We appeal to any one 
who has ever looked down to this edifice from Piccadilly. More might be 
said, but the public opinion as to this structure so entirely agrees with our 
own, that we consider it superfluous. 

Grosvenor Palace. — It is gratifying to find a nobleman with a princely 
fortune, like Earl Grosvenor, not doing good with his money indirectly 
through the proprietors of gambling-houses, horse-keepers, or others of dif- 
ferent kinds, who supply animal and degrading pleasures to the wealthy, 
but laying it out directly through his own servants and artists in the build- 
ing of palaces and the formation of gardens. Of the palace and gardens of 
Eaton Hall we have already spoken. (Vol. I. p. 509.) A design for a town 
residence is in part executed in Park Lane, which, we wish we could say, - 
will probably be as eminent as a Grecian structure, as Eaton Hall is cele- 
brated as a specimen of palace Gothic. The part of this Grecian building 
which is finished is not extensive; but it contains one fault, which respect 
for the architect intrusted with so great a work will not allow us to pass 
ever in silence. The part of the building to which we allude is a picture 
gallery, which being lighted from the roof, no windows are required in the 
sides, or at least not on that side which forms a part of the principal front. 
To vary what would otherwise be a blank wall, three-quarter Corinthian 
columns are employed, and between these blank windows are introduced. 
It is these blank windows that we object to, as indicating vulgarity of idea, 
and poverty of invention. The naked wall would have been preferable, 
because it would have been negatively instead of positively bad. But what 
does Grecian architecture suggest for such a situation ? Certainly, not win- 
dows, but niches for statues below, and over them, if any thing, panels of 
sculpture; or the whole might have been treated as one grand panel of 
sculpture, screened by the three fourth, or detached columns; statues and 
sculpture without, would have been peculiarly appropriate for the picture 
gallery within. Small panels of sculpture are indeed introduced in one 
part; but they merely display wreaths of flowers and fruits, objects of very 
little meaning, and here executed on such a large scale, as to be by far too 
conspicuous, and consequently add to their insignificance of expression. It 
is the mind and character displayed by basso and alto relievos, that give them 
their great interest, and even if at a distance the story cannot be made out, 
still we know that a story is there, and something to exercise the mind 
upon, if we were nearer and had leisure. Such flowers and fruits as are 
met with in sculpture hardly give rise to: two ideas; if they were correct 
imitations of nature, they would be better; but as they generally are, they are 
merely of use in a picturesque point of view, to supply roughness and shade. 
There is a noble group of sculpture in the centre pediment of one of the 
ranges of buildings in the Regent’s Park, put up, as we understand, at the 
expense of the builder, a private tradesman. ‘Such instances of taste and 
spirit deserve the highest applause. 


478 Hints for Improvements. 


Art. VII. Domestic Economy. 


Spruce Beer.—Early in the spring, cut off the young branches of the pine 
or fir three or four inches in length, and break them into small pieces; 
boil them in water, and, after filtering the extract through a sieve, add to 
sixteen gallons of it about six pounds of sugar. It may then, by boiling, 
or evaporating in a hot-house, be reduced to a syrup, which will keep in 
bottles for a length of time. For beer, mix three pints of this extract with 
thirty of water; boil it for about two hours, and, when cold, put it into a 
eask, and ferment it in the usual method. ; 

Tea and Balm Tea.— With regard to tea, for which we pay such im- 
mense sums to China, it is stated that the first leaves of the whortleberry, 
properly gathered and dried in the shade, cannot be distinguished from 
real teas. This is the berry on which the black cock feeds, so that by the 
culture of it we may secure two good things. Be it known to all that 
John Hussey, of Sydenham, who lived to 119 years of age, took nothing to 
his breakfast, for fifty years, but balm tea sweetened with honey. (Art of 
Preserving Health.) i 

Bread from Turnips. — Let the turnips first be peeled, and boiled in 
water till soft and tender ; then, strongly pressing out the juice, mix them 
together, and, when dry (beaten or pounded very fine), with their weight of 
wheat meal ; season it as you do other bread, and knead it up; then, letting 
the dough remain a little to ferment, fashion the paste into loaves, and bake 
it like common bread. Some roast turnips in a paper under the embers, 
and eat them with sugar and butter (EHvelyn’s Misc. Writings, p. 756.) 

Cheap Soap.— Potatoes, three parts boiled, afford a very good substitute, 
especially for washing the hands. (Brit. Mir.) ; 

Tainted wooden Casks, of every description, may be rendered perfectly 
sweet and wholesome by washing with diluted sulphuric acid, and after- 
wards with lime water and pure water. (Journal d’ Agric des Pays Bas, 
December, 1826, p. 574.) 


Art. VIII. Hints for Improvements. 


New Ideas. —In The Mummy, a tale of the twenty-second century, an 
attempt is made to predestinate the application of steam, and other modern 
improvements, which, whether intended in the way of ridicule or effect, it 
may not be altogether useless to notice. A patent steam mowing apparatus 
is set to work in a hay field, and the weather being foggy the hay is dried 
with the use of a burning glass! A field of barley, in a very dry state, is 
watered by the farmer, who, seeing “ anice black heavy-looking cloud sail- 
ing by,” gets out his electrical machine, and draws it down in five minutes. 
Communications are held with every part of the world by means of tele- 
graphs, and a private gentleman, whose son is engaged in battle in Ger- 
many, hears the result of an engagement a few minutes after it happens. A 
steam digging machine is mentioned; cooking is effected by a chemical 
preparation, without the use of fire; it is the fashion for great people to 
have only one dish, and fricasees and ragouts are only devoured by the 
canaille ; beds are inflated with air instead of feathers; house servants, of 
every description, are poets, artists, and philosophers ; water is turned into 
ice by mechanical pressure; fog and vapour is turned into snow or rain at 
pleasure, by withdrawing electricity ; all travelling is performed in balloons ; 
the tour of the whole world can be made im six weeks; and great people, 
finding it so very easy to be transported from ore place to another, have 


Antiquities of Gardening. 479 


left off travelling, and seldom leave their country seats. In a grand pro- 
cession and ovation celebrated in Black Heath Square, said to be the 
largest and finest square in the world, the air was thronged with balloons, 
and with a variety of aérial horses, bestrode by city dandies, whilst others 
floated upon wings, or glided along on aérial sledges. “ The throng of the 
balloons was very dense. Some young city apprentices, having hired each 
a pair of wings for the day, and not exactly knowing how to manage 
them, a dreadful tumult ensued, and the balloons became entangled with 
the winged heroes and each other in inextricable confusion. The noise 
now became tremendous; the conductors of the balloons swearing at each 
other the most refined oaths, and the ladies screaming in concert. Several 
balloons were rent in the scufile, and fell with tremendous force upon the 
earth; whilst some cars were torn from the supporting ropes, and others 
roughly overset. Luckily, however, the whole of England was at this time 
so completely excavated, that falling upon the surface of the earth was like 
tumbling upon the parchment of an immense drum, and, consequently, 
only a deep hollow sound was returned as cargo after cargo of the demo- 
lished balloons struck upon it; some of them, indeed, rebounded several 
yards with the violence of the shock. 

The country is governed by an absolute queen, who is “ full of wild- 
goose schemes.” —“ Only imagine, Sir Ambrose, she showed me. this 
morning a plan for making aérial bridges to convey heavy weights from one 
steeple to another; a machine for stamping shoes and boots at one blow 
out of a solid piece of leather; a steam-engine for milking cows; and an 
elastic summer-house, that might be folded up so as to be put into a man’s 
pocket !” 

Coal and other fuel having been long in disuse, smoke is unknown in 
London, and the English are the first sculptors in the world. The gardens 
of the nobility, who have town-houses, extend from the Strand to the 
Thames, and all of them are open to the public. Nothing in summer can 
be more enchanting than these gardens, filled with statues and beautiful 
originals ; in winter the Thames “ was frozen, and persons glided along it 
in glittering ¢raineaux, or skated gracefully with infinite variety of move- 
ment; whilst, every now and then, a steam-percussion-movable bridge 
shot across the stream, loaded with goods and passengers, collapsing again 
the instant its burthen was safely landed on the other side.” 

There is_a patent steam book manufactory in Hatton Garden, where 
also quotations are cut, dried, and made up into pills for the use of 
authors. Every regiment, ship, and private family has its philosopher as 
well as its chaplain and surgeon. The government of England is an abso- 
lute monarchy; Ireland and Scotland are separate kingdoms ; the Catholic 
religion is every where established; the most enlightened part of society 
believe in ghosts and goblins, and the reason given is, “‘ because the 
extremes ot ignorance and civilisation tend alike to produce credulity.” 

The most extravagant and impracticable ideas will sometimes aid in 
forming new and useful combinations; and it is good to see the subject of 
scientific invention, and intellectual improvement, pushed to the extreme 
point, in order to show the absurdities to which every thing human is liable 
to give rise, : 


Art. IX. Antiquities of Gardening. 


Founrarns and Jets of Water in the Gardens of the Romans. — It is dif- 
ficult to conceive how the Romans could render water so great a source of 
artificial ornament in their gardens, without the use of lead pipes, and yet 


480 Calls at Suburban Gardens. 


it has long been a prevailing opinion that water was conducted by that 
people in open channels only, or by means of pipes of wood or earthenware. 
The contrary, however, proves to be the fact, for specimens of Roman 
leaden pipes are now to be seen in the Museum of Natural Philosophy in 
the University of Edinburgh. (Jam. Jour., Dec. 1827. p. 201.) 

Inventor of serpentine Rivers. — Christopher Wren, chaplain to King 
Charles I., dean of Windsor, and father of Sir Christopher, the architect, 
claimed the origin of serpentine rivers as his invention. Ina marginal note 
affixed to Sir Henry Wotton’s Elements of Architecture, published in 1624, 
he says, “ For disposing the current of a river to a mightie length ina little 
space, I invented the serpentine, a form admirably conveighing the current 
in circular and yet contrary motions upon one and the same level, with walks 
and retirements betweene, to the advantage of all purposes, either of gar- 
denings, plantings, or banquetings, or aery delights, and the multiplying of 
infinite fish in a little compass of ground, without any sense of their being 
restrained. In brief, it is to reduce the current of a mile’s length into the 
compass of an orchard.” 


- 


Art. X. Calls at Suburban Gardens. 


BATTERSEA Nursery, January 8.— This is a new establishment by 
Mr. Russel, chiefly for the propagation] of ornamental shtubs, showy 
flowers, and green-house plants. He has built a green-house, seed- 
room, and dwelling-house. The green-house is heated by a smoke flue, 
composed of tubes of stone ware, of his own invention, and which are 
made at a manufactory for this sort of ware at Battersea. The section of 
these tubes exhibits a square with an elliptic top; they are in lengths of 
2 ft. with a shoulder at one end, and a rebate at the other, for the purpose 
of being neatly fitted together. The thickness of the material is 13 in., 
and the clear width within 12in. by sin. In the middle of the bottom of 
each length is an opening, 6 in. by 4 in., for the purpose of putting in the 
hand and a brush for cleaning the flue; a cover fits this opening very accu- 
rately, and is kept in its place by a small cross-bar of earthenware. Mr. 
Russel values a flue constructed of this description of tubes, for the neat- 
ness of its appearance, and for the ease with which it is heated, and con- 
sequent rapid effect in raising the temperature of the house. He has had 
much experience at Kew, and other places, in managing hot-houses, and 
has often found the greatest inconvenience from thick brick flues on the 
old plan, when the weather has suddenly changed during the night. At 
Kew he has had thirty fires to attend to at one time; and sometimes, in 
consequence of a sudden change of weather, to light the green-house fires at 
ten o’clock at night. Although the furnaces, fuel, and flues were good, no 
exertion on his part could bring the house up to a proper temperature in 
less than two or three hours ; but, with his own stone ware tubes as flues, 
he can raise a green-house to the required heat at any time in fifteen 
minutes. He approves highly of the mode of heating hot-houses by 
hot water, but very properly states that, in the case of green-houses, 
some inconvenience will be found when a sudden increase of temperature 
is required, in consequence of the slowness with which water is heated, and 
gives out its heat. Mr. Russel thinks that tubes of stone ware, of the same 
material as his flue tubes, might answer very well for circulating hot water ; 
he has some experiments with a view to that end in progress, and has pro- 
mised that we shall hear from him again on the subject. 


_ Retrospective Criticism. 48] 


The composition of the material, and the manufacture of Mr. Russel’s 
flue tubes, he says, are only known to the person who has the manufactory 
at Battersea. In appearance it seems to come nearer the Bath stone than 
any other, is as firm and hard as metal, and fire, water, and weather proof. 
Mr. Russel will undertake to get it manufactured of any form, and to send 
it to any part of the united kingdom. 

The Sun Inn, Maidenhead, July 25.— From Dropmore to Maidenhead 
the road presents a series of views of richly wooded, highly cultivated, and 
considerably varied surface; with, every now and then, the winding waters 
of the Thames bursting into view. It is highly gratifying to observe the 
excellent gardens of many of the country inns in England: to those who 
have a garden of their own, it keeps up the illusion of home ; and nothing 
can be more for the interest of the innkeepers, than to heighten this illusion 
as much as possible. In Poland and Russia, where the public inns do not 
even supply beds for travellers, no one can ever forget where he is; in 
England, if the inn is in a quiet situation, and surrounded by a large garden, 
a rich man travelling with his family has almost every thing he could wish 
for. The gardens of the inn at Salthill are not only extensive and abound- 
ing in flowers and trees, but varied in surface, full of romantic shady walks, — 
covered seats, bowers, and picturesque views. The ornamental garden of 
the Sun Inn at Maidenhead is neatly laid out; and it is pleasing to recog- 
nise in it the taste for grotesque masses of roots, mosses, and flowers, 
which seems to have been introduced into this part of the country by 
Lady Grenville. The kitchen-garden is well stocked with every culinary 
vegetable ; and, in a range of brick-built pits, asparagus, sea-kale, kidney- 
beans, potatoes, and mushrooms are forced, and are succeeded by cucum- 
bers and melons. : 

Perhaps the time is not far distant, when libraries, more or less extensive, 
will be kept at every inn, and even at every public-house, for the use of the 
guests. At very large inns there might be a public room devoted to books 
and intellectual entertainment; occasionally, dramatic public readings, 
sermons, lectures, philosophical experiments, tableaux (Encyc. of Gard., 
§ 281.) &c. To inns having such institutions there ought to be a tutor, 
or, as The Mummy suggests, a philosopher, attached ; and it might be well, 
perhaps, in some cases to have a family governess to assist in the concerts, 
and form the nucleus of small parties of bachelors and strangers, who might 
prefer spending their evenings in a public library, and with a degree of allu- 
sion to family society, to sitting alone in a room, At any rate, if it be 
allowable to contemplate improvement in every other thing, why not in 
public inns ? 


Art. XI. Retrospective Criticism. 


ACCENTING the Names of Plants. — Sir, Amongst the many useful articles 
contained in your valuable Magazine, I consider the accenting the names 
of plants, so as to direct gardeners to the right pronunciation of them, not 
one of the least, of which the alteration you have made in the Jast number, 
is a considerable improvement, in making use of the two accents (the grave 
and the acute) to mark the long and the short syllable. ‘There are some 
names of plants which all the country gardeners pronounce wrong ; and, by 
the habit of doing so, have taught ladies and gentlemen who are not bota- 
nists to do the same: so that, if a good botanist happens to be in company 
with such ladies or gentlemen, inspecting a collection of plants, and hears 
them mispronounce the name of any plant which he has to name after- 


Vou, IIL.—No. 12: It 


482 Retrospective Criticism. 


wards, he finds himself in an awkward predicament, as he cannot pro- 
nounce it properly, without appearing to contradict a person who may be 
persuaded that he is in the right, from having so often heard it so pro- 
nounced by those who he thinks ought to know. The names of plants 
which I have observed gardeners almost always pronounce wrong, are the 
following : — E’rica, instead of Erica; Anémone, instead of Anemone, the 
Latin name I mean, as, Anémone alpina; for common custom may have 
sanctioned this method of pronouncing the English name, as Alpine Ané-- 
mone, in the same manner as it has done the word O’rator, although the same 
word in Latin is always pronounced Orator ; also, Oxalis*, instead of O’xalis; 
(Enétherat, instead of Ginothéra; and Clemitis, instead of Clematis, 
Your plan of accenting the names will, I hope, be the means of teaching 
country gardeners and others a better pronunciation of them: but, as 
there is no part of the work of a printer so liable to typographical errors 
as the placing of accents, very great attention is required in correcting the 
press ; the necessity of which will appear from the following list of errata, 
m the Second Volume, and the First and Second Numbers of the Third. 
Volume, of the Gardener’s Magazine. I am, Sir, &c. — N. T. 


i VOn. If. Page line 
Pageline?s '““ (2 A 356. last line, for Cruciféree read Crucifere. 
208. 15. for GEndthera read Ginothéra.t 359. 37. for Orchidéz read Orchidee. 
299, 19, 20, 21. for do. do. 879. 4.17. for GEnéthera read CEnothéra. ¢ 
20. for triléba read triloba. 388. 31. for Lonicera read Lonicéra. 
29. for gravedlens read gravéolens, 395. 6. from bot. for Cotyledon 7. Cotylédon. 
40. for Euthales read Euthales. 397. 25. for Berbéris read Bérberis. 
42. for Sceevéla read Scevola. 81. for humilis read humilis. 
300. 3. for stamina read stamina. 88. for Phasedlus read Phaséolus. 
5, for Ocymum read O’cymum. 429, 1. 22. 27. for Glycine vead Gl¥cine. 
13. for Tetranthera read 'Tetranthéra. 436. 3. from bot, for Hénricusvead Henricus. 
18. for aurantiaca read aurantiaca. 437. 3. and 7. for GEnéthera read CEnothéra. 
22. for Ardidez read Aroidee. 442. 16. for Arbitus read A’rbutus. $ 
29. for Taccacée read Taccacee. 17.,for Berbéris read Bérberis. 
23, for Orchidéze read Orchidez. 451, 12.40. for Oxalis read O’xalis. 
24. for Liparis read Liparis, 18. for Apocynée read Apocynee. — 
333. 16. for Orchidéz read Orchider. 21. for Polygonéz“vead Polygonez. 
30. for Rhizobolée xcad Rhizobdlee. 35. for suavedlens read suaveolens. 
40. for Scevéla read Sce*vola. - 86. for Lotée read Lotee. 
334. 9. for Oxalis read O’xalis. ‘ 39. for Prostanthera read Prostanthéra. 
9. for tenéra read ténera. 452. 42. for Asphodelée read Asphodétlee. 
12. for gracilis read gracilis. 453. 2. for Anemonéz read Anemonez. 
335. 2. for trigynum 7ead trigynum. 3 7. for Cruciféree read Crucifere. 
28. for Lathyrus read Lathyrus. 11. for Cistinéz read Cistinee. 
30. for Primula read Primula. 454. 7.ctrom bot. for Atrépa read A tropa.} 
39, for Mandragéra ead Mandragora, 455. 4. and 43. for Hellebérus 7. Helléborus.t 
40. for Solanéz read Solanee. 12, for Oléa read O'ea. 
42. for Orchidéz vead Orchidee. 43, for Ranunculéz read Ranunculee. 
44. for Thymeléz read Thymélee. 46, for Aroidée read Aroide. 
50. for Cistinéz read Cistinee. 52. for Aristolochée vxead Aristolochee. 
336. 25. for Diosméz read Didsmee. 52, for Asarum read A*sarum.t 


5. from bot. for Atrépa read A‘tropa.t 462. 5. for nubigénum read nubigenum. 
2. from bot. for lutéa read lutea. ; 484. 16, for GEndéthera vead Cinothéra. 
337. 5. from bot. for Atrépa vead A ‘tropa.t 486. 15, for Aurantidca vead Aurantiaca. 
343. 30. for Graminéz read Graminee. 
350. 22. for Berbéris ead Bérberis. RIDERS NOE Uc 
24, for aurantiaca-7ead aurantiaca. For Atrépa vead A*tropa. 


* The second syllable of this is made long in Ainsworth’s Dictionary, so 
is the third syllable of Antirrkinum there made short, but they are both 
errors of the press: for the second syllable of Oxalis is short in Labbe’s 
Catholici Indices ; and the first syllable in rhinon, the Greek word whence 
it is derived, is always long in Homer. [Neither of these errors is to be 
found in the later editions of Ainsworth’s Dictionary. ] 

t+ This is composed of two Greek words, in the latter of which, thera, 
the e is long. 

{ Words followed by this mark, it will be observed, are accented differ- 
ently in the letter following: the former is according to Donn’s Hortus 
Cantabrigiensis.—Cond. 


Retrospective Criticism. 483 


For Cistinée read Cistinez. Page line 
or Corypha read Cérypha. 13. and 73. for Tridéz rxead Iridex. 
For Glycine read Gl¥cine. , 24. for diversilobum read diversilobum. 
For OxAlis ead O’xalis. 25. for lasiocaGlon 7ead lasiocatilon. t 
For Spartium nubigénum read S. nubigenum. 32. for streptanthera read streptanthéra. 
33. for Iridéz vead Iridez. a 
35. for Asphodelte sead Asphodélee. 
VOL, Ill. 42, for Smilacée read Smilicez. 
Page line ie : 72. 8. for Cistinte ead Cistinee. 
48. 29. for Lycium read Lycium. 24. for Achillea read Achilléa. 
49. 16. for Lycium read Lycium 27. for saxifraga read saxifraga. 
50 18, for monogynum read monégynum. 7. from bot. for farfara read farfara. 
33, for MAarica read Marica. 80. 29. for colutéa + read colutea. 
52. 10. for euryoides* read euryo\des. 105. 46. for Oxalis read O’xalis. 
53. 27. for Liparis read Liparis. 106. 16. from bot. for GEnéthera 7. GEnothéra. 
28. for coelogyne read ccelégyne. 6. from bot, for Glycine read Glycine. 
40. for ixioides read ixioides. 107. 40. for Ginéthera read CEnothéra. 
68. 30. for ericoides ead ericoides. 107. 34. for Iridte read Iridez. 
31. Jor Empetrée read Empétree. 182. 4, from bot. for cerasus read cérasus. 
37. for urticée read urticee. 196. 10. for Asarum read A*sarum. + 
39. for Thymelézx vead Thymélez. 37. for cyanéum 7ead cyaneum. 
! 69. 8. for iridioides read iridioides. 2. and 4. from bot. for Cyclamen xead 
£71. 10. for Myrttz read Myrtee. Cyclamen. 


Accenting Botanical Names.—“ Etymologia Greeca plantarum difficillime 
eruitur in plerisque plantis, adeoque conjecture szpius satisfaciunt.” 
Linnei Philosoph. Botan., s.240.— “The Greek derivations of the names 
of many plants are extreniely difficult to discover, and therefore we must 
often be satisfied by conjecture.” 

“ Auctoritas vocum petendaest patribus.” Jd., s.241.—“ The autho- 
rity of a word is to be sought for from its originator.” 

Sir, I am much interested in the success of the Gardener’s Magazine, 
because I think it calculated to diffuse useful and agreeable information. 

Since you have adopted the accentuation of Latin words, I have carefully 
noted the variations which have crept in, probably from the difficulty of 
correcting the press. Allow me to make some enquiries on this subject. I 
have before me at present only Nos. VIII, and IX. of the Gardener’s Ma- 
gazine, but the observations arising from the pages of these will have a 
more extensive reference. 

First, as to the accentuation of Genera. 

Vol. Il. page 397. and 442. You accentuate Berbéris on the second sylla- 
ble; but in No. [X. p. 97., Bérberis on the first. Which is right, 

h and on what authority? [Answ. Bérberis.] 

597. Tropedlum. Why not Trope‘olum ? 

Phaseolus. Why not Phaseolus ? ; 

598. Arachis. From what derivation? [It is a name of Pliny for a plant 
which, he says, has neither leaves nor stems.] 

422, Glycine; and p. 106., No IX. Why not Glycine ? 

456. for Hénricus /ege Henricus. 

457. Cindthera, and 484., and No. IX. p.107., must be Ginothéra; Sypa 
being the original name, or, as you quote it, thera. 

442. Arbutus is A‘rbitus, on the authority of Virgil. 

454, Atrdpa is as certainly A’tropa, from Arpomos. 


* In all words of- this kind, ending in otdes, which signify the form or 
shape of another plant, the ot is to be pronounced as two syllables, as 
euryo-ides, with the accent on the i, which is long in the Greek word 
whence it is taken. Thus, in ixio-ides, ides signifies the form or shape, 
and ixio, of an ixia; so in erico-ides, ides’is the form or shape, and erico, 
of an erica. ; 

+ This word is commonly pronounced colutéa; but this is certainly 
wrong, for it is taken from the Greek word coloutea of Theophrastus, in 
which the e is the short e in Greek. 

le Z 


4:84 Retrospective Criticism. 


455. Hellebdrus ought to be Helléborus, from Bopa; but this accuracy may 
be resisted by custom, as in Anémone, which is certainly Anemone, 
on the authority of Theocritus; but the Greek lexicons seem 
aware that Anémone is equally correct, from the derivation from 

_avemos and pevw. 
455. Oléa is incorrect. Olea, in No. IX. p. 106., is Virgil’s accentuation. 
Why Asarum, and Junipérus, in opposition to Virgil, and not A’sarum 

and Juniperus ? 

472, Ornithogalum must be wrong: the stress must be on the third sylla- 
ble, ornithégélum, in our English pronunciation, although the third 
syllable be in truth short. 

484, On what authority is Jasminum accented on the second syllable ? and 
why Jalipa, instead of Jasminum, and Jalapa? 

Vol. III. page 49. Pittosporum ought to have the accent on the second 
syllable, though, I admit, it will sound harsh as Pittosporum ; but 
omopos ought to guide us. 

50. Azedarach. Is the focal pronunciation on the third syllable? [It 
should be Azedarach.] 
Veronica will probably retain its usual pronunciation, as accented 
here; but the third syllable is long, from exer. 
53. Celogyne; and 60. Monogynum, both wrong; as the first syllable in 
yuvn is short, in Homer, I think, repeatedly. 
70. Pimélea, from medy ; I prefer, therefore, Pimeléa. 
72. Saxifraga, certainly wrong, on the authority of Horace, “ mare nau- 
fragum.” [Saxifraga.] 

Secondly, I have doubts and questions as to specific names accented in 
Nos. VII. and IX. 

No. VIII. page 397. Humilis must be a mere erratum for humilis. 

451. Apocynéze is one of a numerous class, in which the accent can 
scarcely be correct as placed on the antepenultimate, as in Cistinéze 
and Lotéz : the e is, by position, short. 

452. Eriocadlon should have the accent marked, if it can, so as to show 
that the stress is on the aw, not on either vowel separately. * . 

453. Crucifére, a mere erratum, as well as 

462. nubigénum, for Cruciferee and nubigenum. 

469. Serotinum. Que@re, and not Serétinum ? 

484, Campanula medium, instead of media, is an error produced by C. 

_ speculum. 

486. Aurantiaca I do not like, but cannot improve, without laying the 
stress on the 7, a short vowel. I think, however, that such is the 
usual mode of pronunciation. 

No. IX. page 71. Diversilobum. Where do we find authority? Homer has 
it Ao€os ; therefore we shall be more nearly correct by pronouncing 
it diversilobum. 

Can we not attempt to form a few rules on the subject of pronouncing 
Greek and Latin words, where the genius of our language cannot dis- 
tinctly note the proper quantity of the syllables? I suggest, as Rule I., 
where the concurrence of several short syllables in a polysyllable precludes 
a perfect attention to the true quantity of each syllable, that we place the 
accent on the antepenultimate, as in Kupatorium, diversilobum, ornitho- 
galum, &c.; or, in compound adjectives, as diversilobum, we divide them 
diversi-lobum. Rule JJ. Where trisyllables cannot be pronounced accord- 
ing to the precise quantity of each, that we place the accent on the ante- 
penultimate syllable. 


* In future the dizeresis will be used in cases where a diphthong is not 
intended. — Cond. 


feetrospective Criticism. 485 


Ihave marked the erroneous and doubtful accentuation of No. X., but 
withhold it until I learn your wishes. Sir, yours, &c.— 7’, B. Dec. 3. 1827. 

For these corrections we return our best thanks, and shall feel greatly 
obliged by their being continued. In future, we hope to render them less 
necessary.. In our Hortus Britannicus we have, in almost every case, fol- 
lowed Donn’s Hortus Cantabrigiensis, and meant to have done so here; 
the above, therefore, are inadvertencies, which we hope to avoid in future. 
— Cond. : 

Beauty in Masses. — Sir, An observation of yours in the description 
of the grounds at Dropmore, with which you have recently favoured the 
public, having struck me as something incongruous in the general manner 
in which you have made it, I take the liberty, though neither author nor 
botanist, of addressing you on the subject, in the hope of eliciting from you 
at some future time some new lights upon it, or of rendering more bright, 
or directing more wisely, those dim ones which I may have at present. 

You speak highly of the advantage of placing beauty in masses. A 
general idea, and so placed as to make me think that you mean to speak 
of every kind of beauty, and therefore, without diverging even from the 
subject of gardening (if I understood it), I think, from the known effect of 
beauty in other matters, I shall be able to give at least some reason for dis- 
senting from you in this, But I must premise that, notwithstanding the 
beauty of my subject, and the admiration which, as a true lover of beauty, 
I must have for the curve and elliptic, all | have to say will nevertheless 
be in parallels. I bespeak your patience ; in other words, I presume not to 
be circuitous, and to begin a species of interrogative comparison with the 
liberal arts. In poetry, which, I would ask, has the greater effect ? a single 
fine thought, simile, or allusion, or a string or collection of them? Which, 
in painting, are the more generally admired pictures, speaking of immediate 
effect, those in which a mass of one tint in colour predominates, or those in 
which there is a happy blending or mixing of colours? And in music, are 
we more affected by a particular note long held, or by undulating swells or 
cadences? To speak on a subject still more generally understood and 
felt, what is the effect of beauty in those locomotive flowers of creation, 
women? Does the presence of one beautiful woman among a crowd of 
others who are not so, create more or less effect than when beautiful 
‘women are seen more numerously? Or, to speak more directly still, is 
feminine beauty more prized, admired, or striking in Greece, where it is 
seen en masse, as one may say, or in France, where truth obliges us to 
confess that it is comparatively rare? You will say, perhaps, that masses of 
flowers of one sort in a garden are in direct imitation of nature herself, who 
in a wild state scatters profusely en masse It may be so; but I never 
knew that it was in any particular form, segment, or circle. The little 
hillocks of wild thyme that scent the air so agreeably for the traveller, the 
modest forget-me-not that borders the rivulets, and the scented violet 
_ that creeps along the shade, may indeed be seen in profusion where they 
are found; but they are nevertheless so disposed by “ nature’s sweet and 
cunning hand,” as to set at nought the proportions of square or round, 
oblong or semicircular. If art means therefore to trammel her by line and 
rule, and to take off her beautiful wildness and whimsicality, she ought at 
least to supply her with elegance, which is scarcely found en masse. On 
this very account how exceedingly beautiful and pleasing was the manner 
in which the chrysanthemums were disposed in the Horticultural Society’s 
garden last season. Had these fanciful children of the garden been arranged 
in masses, according to their tints and shades, how formal and unnatural 
would the effect have been, at least according to my opinion. ‘The relation 
between art and nature has always appeared to me of the same kind as 
that between judgment and imagination; the latter, uncorrected by the 

11 8 


486 Retrospective Criticism. 


former, presents to the mind perhaps the most beautiful and sublime ‘pic- 
tures, but they are always wild and fantastic. If, however, she permits 
- judgment to advise and criticise without meddling too much in the affair, 
perfection is likely to ensue, which would never perhaps be the case if the 
imagination were left entirely to herself, or that judgment sat coolly down 
to make a picture of her own, instead of making a corrected and more 
elegant copy of that which was presented by her volatile friend. I remain, 
Sir, &c. — Variegata. January, 1828. Se 

If the general manner in which we have expressed ourselves in favour of 
“ beauty in masses,” in the article alluded to, be liable to misconception, 
our elegant and ingenious correspondent, if she will take the trouble of 
referring to other parts of the Gardener’s Magazine, will find that we had 
previously endeavoured to explain our ideas on this subject. We refer 
Variegata to our note in Vol. II. p.309. Beauty may be in masses, 
without being in formal masses ; but even formal masses of beauty, beauty 
in curved forms, or in beds bounded by parallel lines, is to be admired im its 
way ; for neither in nature or art is every thing in the superlative. Beauty 
is not of one but of many kinds. We cannot agree with Variegata in 
admiring the manner in which the chrysanthemums were disposed in the 
Horticultural Society’s garden last season, for reasons so fully detailed in 
the note referred to, that we need only request Variegata to reconsider 
that note, and to favour us with some farther remarks on the subject. — 
Cond. 

Planting Hyacinths.— Your correspondent, Rusticus in Urbe (p. 162.), is 
completely wrong in regard to the cause of the excellence of Mr. Camp- 
bell’s hyacinths. He says, “the great merit of Mr. Campbell’s mode of 
treating hyacinths depends entirely on the depth, 4 in., at which he plants 
them.” Quite the contrary. The merit consists, as Mr. Campbell has 
shown, in planting them only 1in. under the surface. The dung which 
Mr. Campbell puts over them is for the purpose of keeping out the frost, 
and keeping in the moisture: it is quite loose, dry, and porous; otherwise 
it would not have either of these effects. So far from the wild hyacinth, 
or harebell, in our hedges and woods, naturally rooting deep, I can affirm, 
from observation, that they only do this on very soft soils, and that, when 
they do so, the plants are always weak, and never flower well. If Rusticus 
in Urbe will look into any wood where the harebell abounds at this season, 
he will find the strongest bulbs invariably near the surface, and in general 
within an inch of it, or even less. I refer Rusticus in Urbe, or any other 
of your readers, to the woods at Caenwood, at Hampstead, where the wild 
hyacinth abounds, and where, from recent inspection, I can affirm, from 
my own knowledge, that the facts are as stated above. Yours, truly,— 
Rusticus Sylvanus. Sept. 25. 1827. 

We have shown the communication of Rusticus Sylvanus to our neigh- 
bour, Mr. Campbell, who entirely agrees with what R.S. has stated. We 
can affirm the same thing, having lately been in woods in Hertfordshire 
where the hyacinth abounds. — Cond. 

Cobbett’s Garden. (p. 564.) — As I am not an admirer of this person, [ am 
not likely to say any thing in his praise; but I think you are not just in 
your observations on his prices. If you have seen in his shop-window the 
branch of the fall-apple, I think you will allow, from the appearance of the 
specimen, that it is not only a great bearer, but a very handsome apple. 
The branch is about a foot long, with four very large and beautiful apples 
upon it, and several excellent blossom buds for the next year; and od. for 
a one-year grafted tree, or 1s. 3d. for a larger, say of two years, is much 
below the usual rate; the price of Keen’s seedling strawberry is very low 
also. Ihave myself this autumn paid 4s. per hundred, and I think at Mr. 


Retrospecivve Criticism. 487 


Keen’s, at Isleworth, you will pay 10s. Cobbett selling at 2s. 6d, per hun- 
dred is doing, I think, a great service to us Cockneys. 

I intend, if you will give them room, to send you my experiments on 
growing strawberries in small gardens. I have produced thirty-six pottles 
(weight 28 lbs.) on seven square yards of ground, of the Bostock or Wel- 
lington, in ten months after planting, and though the dry summers have 
hindered my continuing it, my soil being a hot gravelly one, I do not doubt 
I shall be able to do it again, — Superficial. Brixton Villa, January. 

Double Yellow Rose. —1 have heard that this flower cannot be blown 

near London ; is it true ? — Zd. 
_ The Grub of the Cockchaffer (p. 295, 534.) in French is called mante, and 
Is very destructive to coss lettuces when first transplanted. A neighbour 
of mine, whose gardener had manured a border with dung full of the grubs, 
which he carelessly did not pick out, had this year three transplanted crops 
of lettuces destroyed. When a lettuce flags, by digging the root out with 
a trowel, the insect I call mante will be found: it is an ugly grub, about 
the size of the two top joints of the little finger, of a dirty white, with 
brown legs, and is always in a bent state. When I break up my little 
melon bed every autumn, I generally find a great many in the dung, about 
6in. from the top, exactly under the place where the woodwork of the 
frame stood. Knowing what mischief they do, I carefully turn the dung 
over two or three times before 1 use it. Being no entomologist, I turned 
to Samouelle’s work, to make out what insect the Anomalia horténsis was, 
and am no wiser. Is it the green gold beetle, usually called the May bug, 
that is very fond of roses and lilies, and also often found in cucumber frames? 
[We believe so; if we are wrong, Mr. Swainson will correct us.] The 
sparrows are great enemies to the chaffer, but they are much destroyed, 
for the mischief they do to early peas, &c. If hops, after brewing, are 
strewed between the rows, I have found it preserve peas much; the spar- 
rows prefer the hop-seed to any thing. I myself think sparrows of great 
service in the close gardens in the vicinity of London. I recollect stopping 
a putlog hole where a pair used to breed, and I never had a fair bloom on 
a large maiden’s blush rose afterwards; before, I had watched them for 
hours opening the leaves, and carrying off the green caterpillars, which 
infests this rose more than any other near London. The cockchaffer can 
be caught in great numbers by shaking the trees they frequent when the 
sun is out; they will fall to the ground, and can there be picked up and 
destroyed. — Id. 

Knowledge for the Poor. (p. 542.)— Though I have had very little prac- 
tice in French for some years, I should prefer, and I think understand, the 
book of Baron Dupin better than the English works by the Society for the 
Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. The French have the tact of writmg home 
to the ignorant, so that one who reads French can understand them; but 
our works in general require not only two or three languages, but a come 
plete mathematical knowledge, or a better education than in general falls 
to the lot of those who wish to read them.— Id. 

Scraping off the old Bark of Fruit Trees, by Mr. Thomson (p. 509.), is 
not a new discovery. (See Lyon on Fruit Trees. Edin, 1816.)— Id. 

The Pomological Magazine is certainly not a cheap work, compared with 
either the old Botanical Magazine or the Botanical Register. Though the 
colouring is good, I do not think, from the description of the fruits, that 
the drawings are correct ; e. g. the Royal Apricot is described as a less fruit 
than the Moorpark! Look at the fruit! Ido not pretend to say that 
there never was such a sized fruit, but I only know that if I were to de- 
scribe the natives of the sister island, I should not figure the Irish giant as 
a specimen. The apple, Sugar-loaf Pippin, seems put to a branch that did 

i ie a 


488 Answers 10 Queries, and Queries. 


not belong to it. I trust the publishers will not abridge the profit of the 
booksellers an eighth, as they did in the Botanical Register after they had 
got the work forward: I assure them I am not the only one that recollects 
it. In short, your observations on the Pomological Magazine, 1 think, show 
that it is a work conducted in any way but the right. Mr. M. H. is certainly 
correct in his observations concerning the language. Let me add an observ- 
ation of John Nicholson, Esq., author of the Parmer’s Assistant, printed at 
Albany, in America, 1814, who, speaking of English authors, says, “ We 
have plain English enough for every purpose of this kind, and there is 
no need of farmers’ having a vocabulary for cattle, consisting of barbarous 
words, which none but themselves would be likely to understand.” — Id. 

An Orchard in Miniature. (p.281.)—As trees are sold by the nurserymen 
by the names of Free and Paradise Stocks, I should conceive any purchaser 
would be disappointed in ordering plants on the small wild crab; there- 
fore, with submission to those who know better, their orders should be 
for plants on Paradise stocks. There are good collections of choice apples 
both at Barr and Brookes’s, and Chandler and Buckingham’s: price for 
small trees at Barr’s, on crab stocks, 1s.; on Paradise stocks, 1s. 6d.; and, 
I believe, the same at Chandler’s. If they are large trees, or have been 
removed to throw them into fruit, 6d. to 1s. each more will be charged. I 
had a dozen from Barr at 18s. two years ago; many bore the first year, and 
now show much bloom for next year, and they can be well managed at the 
distance mentioned, though I fear the Hawthornden sort recommended 
would be apt to run too freely ; it is a very strong grower on a free stock. 
I believe, where filberts are grown in Kent for sale, they are planted in the 
manner of the orchard in miniature, with some standard trees amongst 
them. I very much prefer young small trees, having always observed that 
in a few years they will beat those that were much larger when planted, 
not only in wood, but also in fruit. Ten years ago two Jargonelle pears 
were planted within 20 yards of each other; one cost 7s., the other 1s. 6d.; 
the large one never recovered, the other is a fine tree. —Id. : 


ArT. XII. Answers to Queries, and Queries. 


Iazr’DEz, in Answer to Mr. Swainson. (p. 578.) — Sir, In answer to Mr. 
Swainson (the author, I presume, of many valuable and elegant works on 
conchology and other branches of natural history), I beg leave to say that 
it will give me very great pleasure if, by exchange of plants, or any other 
mode he may suggest, we can mutually assist each other in enlarging our 
collection of the beautiful genus Iris. I have therefore thought it advis- 
able to send you a list of those species and varieties which are in my col- 
lection at present, and should you deem it worthy of a place in your inter- 
esting Magazine, it may be the means of supplying our desiderata, and of 
enlarging the collections of other individuals who may be engaged in the 
same manner, as I am convinced that many species are cultivated in the 
neighbourhood of London which are not to be met with in this part of the 
kingdom, Iam, Sir, &c.— David Falconar, Carlowrie, Kirkliston, near 
Edinburgh. 


I. Barsa‘ra. — Bearded. 

FRIS. 
1. pumila. 
1, purpurea. Bot. Mag., vol.i. tab. 9. 


Answers to Queries, and Queries. 489 


2 Biolices Bot. Mag., vol. xxxi. tab. 1261. 
3. alba. 
4, cerulea. 
5. lutea. Bot. Mag., Wale xxx. tab. 1209. Is this JZ. lutéscens of 
authors ? 
2. cristata. Bot. Mag., vol. xii. tab. 412. 
3. susiana. Bot. Mag., vol.iii. tab. 91. 
4. florentina. Bot. Mag., vol. xviii. tab. 671. 
5. aoe. 
1. plicata. Bot. Mag., vol. xxii. tab. 870. 
2. Swértii ? 
6. variegata. Bot. Mag., vol.i. tab. 16. 
2 varieties. 
7. sambucina. Bof. Mag,, vol. vi. tab. 187. 
8. squalens. Bot. Mag., vol. xxi. tab. 787. 
9. lurida. Bot. Mag., vol. xviii. tab. 619. 
10. fimbriata. Bot. Mag., vol. xi. tab. 373. 
11. germanica. Bot. Mag., vol. xviii. tab. 670. 
12. pallida. Bot. Mag., vol. xviii. tab. 685. Dalmatian Iris of the Lon- 
don nurserymen. 
13. dichétoma. Sweet’s British Flower-Garden, tab. 96. Tris pomeri- 
; diana of Fischer. 
14, sordida. Willdenow Enumeratio Plant., suppl., p. 4. 
15. furcata. Bot. Mag., vol.1. tab. 2561. 
16. neglécta. Bot. Mag., vol.l. tab. 2456. 
17. sub-biflora. Bot. Mag., vol. xxviii. tab. 1130. 
18. hungarica. Sweet’s British Flower-Garden, tab. 74. 


II. Imzx’rzes. — Not Bearded. 
19. Psetid-dcorus. _ 
20. foetidissima. 
21. virginica. Bot. Mag., vol. xix. tab. 703. 
22. versicolor. Bot. Mag., vol.i. tab. 21. 
2 varieties. 
25. falva. Bot. Mag., vol. xxxvi. tab. 1496. Iris ciiprea. 
24, tridentata. Pursh’s Flora. I. tripétala, Walter. 
25. ochroleica. Bot. Mag., vol. ii. tab. 61. 
26. hal6phila. Bot. Mag., vol. xxiii. tab. 1131. 
27. spuria. 
ile major. Bot. Mag., vol. xxii. tab. 875. 
2. minor. Bot. Mag., vol. ii. tab. 58. 
3. stendgyna. Bot. Mag., vol. xxxvii. tab. 1515. 
4. desertorum. Bot. Mag., vol. xxxvil. tab. 1514. 
28. vérna. Sweet's British Flower-Garden, tab. 68. 
29. graminea. Bot. Mag., vol. xviii, tab. 681. 
30. ensata. 
31. sibérica. Bot. Mag., vol. ii. tab. 56. 
flore albo. Bot. Mag., vol. xxix. tab. 1163, andtz flexuosa of Murray ? 
altaica. 
52. hematophylla. Bot. Mag., vol. xxxix. tab. 1604. Sweet's British 
Flower-Garden, tab. 118. 
35. acuta. Willd. Enum. Plant. suppl., p. 4. 
34. triflora. Link. Enum. Plant. 
55. prismatica. Bot. Mag., vol. xxxvil. tab. 1504. 
1. caroliniana, 


of London nurseries. 
2, missouriénsis, ifs 


490 Answers to Queries, and Queries. 


36. ruthénica, var. 6. Bot. Mag., vol. xxxiv. tab. 1595. 

57. nepalénsis ? 

58. Pallas# chinénsis. Bot. Mag., vol. xlix. tab. 2351. 

59. coelestina ? : 

40. pennsylvanica, of the London nurserymen. 

41. biglimis. Willd. Enum. Plant. suppl. 

42. tuberdsa. Bot. Mag. 

45. Xiphium. 

45. wiphioides. 

44, pérsica, 

46. sp.? Found growing on old walls near Paris, with pale yellow flowers, 
resembles J. germanica. 

47. Guldenstadi# atomaria. 


I have six plants apparently different from any of the above, but as they 
have not flowered I cannot ascertain the species ‘I beg leave to add the 
following species to my desiderata before sent you. (p. 118.) 


1. Iris livida. Sweet’s Hort. Britt. 

2. Iris longiflora. Roemer and Schultes. 

3. Iris gracilis. Begelow, from North America. _ 
4, Iris lacdstris. Nuttal, North America. — DOP on 


O’valis caprina. — Dear Sir, O’xalis taprina, Botanical Magazine, 237., 
mentioned in your account of Dropmore, at p. 260., in your last Number, 
is the O. cérnua of Thunberg, which name, being the original one, should 
be adopted, as has been already done by Decandolle in his Prodromus, 
p- 696.; and by Sweet in his Hortus Britannicus, p. 86., it is characterised 
by having a little stem, and a many-flowered scape, with drooping yellow 
flowers ; whereas, on the contrary, the O. caprina of Linnzus has no stem, 
a two to four flowered scape, and red flowers. ‘The present O. cérnua is a 
charming subject, nearly hardy, requiring only to be planted in light soil, 
and to be protected with a little mulch in severe weather, where it will 
increase and flower in profusion. I have the honour to be, &c. — 
Botanicus. January 15. 1827. 

Earthenware Pipes. —Sir, In reply to the query of your correspondent, 
J. M. of Brighton (p. 375.), respecting the earthenware pipes, &c., used at 
Bickley, I have to state that the pipes made use of here are not watertight, 
nor do I suppose it possible by Roman cement, or any other means, to ren- 
der earthenware pipes so entirely tight as to prevent any exudation of water 
from them. ie - 

The reservoir I consider very requisite, as by replenishing it with cold 
water instead of the boiler, it prevents the heat of the water in the latter 
from being checked, and consequently precludes any variation in the tem- 
perature of the heuse ; a point, I imagine, of paramount importance. — 7’. 
Wells. Bickly Gardens, Jan. 26. 1828. s is 

Disease of the Anemone, in Answer to A. B.—Sir, From the account 
which your correspondent, A. B. of Warwick, has given in the last Num- 
ber of the Gardener’s Magazine, p. 382., of a disease which affected the 
Anemone coronaria in his garden last year, I am inclined to think it must 
have been occasioned by a species of Adcidium, a small parasitical fungus, 
which I have observed for these five or six years past to attack the leaves 
of that species of anemone in the Oxford botanic garden. The first 
appearance of this fungus is that of lightish coloured spots on the under 
surface of the leaves, these spots soon become small tuberculate mem- 
branaceous bodies, or peridia, which protrude themselves through the epi- 
dermis of the leaf; they are at first closed, but afterwards open at the apex 
into four or five, and sometimes more, broad, reflected segments; by this 


Answers to Queries, and Queries. 491 


opening the sporidia, or minute bodies which contain the spérule, or 
seeds, make their escape. 

_ This curious little parasite is generally very regularly dispersed over the 
inferior surface of the leaves, giving them a pale and sickly appearance, and 
for the most part rendering the plants attacked by it barren of flowers. 
I do not find that it has been noticed in any work on British plants, but it 
is described by M. De Candolle in the Hxcyclopédie Botanique, vol. viii. 
p.255., and in the More Francoise, vol.vi. p.90., under the name of Acidium 
quadrifidum. Professor Link has also described it in his continuation of 
Willdenow’s Species Plantarum, vol. vi. part ii. p. 65., by the name of Caeoma 
quadrifidum. 

The common wood anemone, Anemone nemorosa, in the neighbourhood 
of Oxford, is often attacked by the Hcidium leucospérmum of De Can- 
dolle, AX. anemones of Persoon and Relhan. This differs from /E. quadr{- 
fidum in being smaller, of a whiter colour, and in the apex opening into a 
greater number of lobes; it is scattered very regularly over the under side of 
the leaves, and such leaves as are affected by it may be distinguished, even 
at a considerable distance, by their growing much higher than those which 
are free from its attacks. I have sometimes found it on the involucrum and 
corolla, as well as on the leaves, but it is very seldom that plants which are 
affected by it produce flowers. A history and description of this epiphyl- 
lous fungus, by Dr. Pulteney, may be seen in the second volume of the 
Transactions of the Linnean Society of London, p. 5305—312. 

Another parasite, equally common on the wood anemone here, is the 
Puccinia anemones of Persoon, Aicidium fascum of Sibthorp. This, also, 
grows on the under side of the leaves, giving them somewhat the appear- 
ance of a species of fern in fructification; and, as such, a leaf of the ane- 
mone, with the Puccinia upon it, was figured by Dillenius in the third edition 
of Ray’s Synopsis, t.5. f.1. It is there, at page 124., said to have been 
gathered by the Conjuror of Chalgrave, whence it has been called the Con- 
jurer of Chalgrave’s Fern. Some botanists appear to have considered this 
and the Aicidium leucospérmum as the same, but they are very distinct, 
and may be readily distinguished from each other, even by the naked eye, 
the Aicidium being white, and furnished with a peridium ; the Puccinia of 
a reddish brown colour, and without a true peridium, what sometimes 
appears to be such being only the epidermis of the leaf, which often forms 
a border round the base of each mass of sporidia. 

Seme authors have quoted the description in Ray’s Synopsis, ed. 5. p.124. 
t. 5. f. 1., as a synonym to Aicidium leucospérmum, but that it belongs to 
the present species of Puccinia, I have been able to ascertain from an inspec- 
tion of the original specimen, which is still preserved in Bobart’s Herbarium. 
Dr. Hill, in his British Herbal, p.12., has blamed Dillenius for following 
Bobart in considering this specimen as a species of fern, but the Doctor 
himself was certainly under a greater mistake than either of those distin- 
guished botanists, when he described the round dots, as he called them, on 
the leaves of the anemone, as the eggs of an insect. 

I have sent with this specimens of each of the fungi mentioned above for 
your inspection, accompanied by all the synonyms I have been able to collect, 
that I believe to belong to each of them, and I trust they will be found to 
be correct. I am, Sir, &c.— Wilkam Baxter. Botanie Garden, Oxford, 
January 15. 1828. t 

We shall be happy to hear frequently from Mr. Baxter. The specimens 
of anemone leaves, with fungi on them, which he has sent, are left with 
the publishers, and addressed to A. B. of Warwick, who will be so good as 
send for them, and we hope he will favour us with his opinion in respect 


492 Answers to Queries, and Queries. 


to the conjectures of so very intelligent a cryptogamic botanist as Mr. 
Baxter. — Cond. 

Protecting the Blossoms of Peach Trees by Fern.— Amateur of Berkham- 
stead’s query, as to the proper mode of using fern for protecting fig trees, 
may be considered as answered by the following communication : — “ Just 
before the buds begin to expand, I collect a quantity of the Aspidium acu- 
leitum, Smith FU. Brit.; the stalk of the frond I introduce into a shred, 
and the point of it is brought to the point of the shoot ; it is there wound 
once or twice round the nail near the point of the shoct, taking care to 
reserve an inch or two of the point of the frond to be turned in between 
the point of the shoot and the wall, which is a sufficient fastening, if pro- 
perly done. A tree, when covered in this manner, has at a small distance 
the appearance of being in full leaf. As soon as the fruit is set, the fern is 
taken off, to prevent injury to the young foliage by confining it. This is a 
neat, light, and effectual covering, which I have practised these last ten 
years.” — Wm. Hurst. .Hitcham Gardens, Nov. 23.1826. 

Cutting over young Forest Trees. (p. 119.)—In reply to Mr. Thonville, 
who wishes to know about the proper season for cutting over young trees 
that have become stunted in growth. During these four years past I have 
planted a good deal, and the greater part on chalk subsoil, and I have been 
under the necessity of cutting over a part of the young trees, partly from 
being eaten with hares, and partly from not having grown well. I have 
cut ash, beech, elm, sycamore, some the first year after planting, and some 
the second ; those cut the second year after planting made the strongest 
shoots. 1 have cut the first and second week of April, although I think 
that rather too late for elm and sycamore. I have cut young oak trees 
over about the end of April, and have found them do well. Although I have 
cut beech over, I have scarcely got a good shoot from their stools. Ash, 
elm, sycamore, oak, and Spanish chestnut, I have found do well after cutting 
over. in performing the operation, my men use a cleft stick in the left 
hand to hold the tree off them in the operation of cutting: putting the 
stick close to the surface of the ground, and the tree coming into the cleft, 
the person with his right hand cuts the tree in a slanting direction, about 
half an in. above ground; the left hand pushing gently at the time of cut- 
ting, makes it cut clean, without being in any way split or fractured. How- 
ever, I would advise that trees should not be cut over until the second year 
after planting; for I have seen some trees that appeared sickly during the 
first year after planting, that have taken hold and grown away afterwards, 
but such were generally in good soil. 1 have even a proof at this time of 
trees getting away well the third year, although they were a little stunted 
the first two years. I find cutting over quick wood plants, the year after 
planting, an excellent method for making them push strong and bushy. — 
Quercus, Oct. 1827. 

Primula sinénsis. — A Constant Reader wishes to know how the Pri- 
mula sinénsis may be increased. I have raised this year above 60 plants from 
seed. I recommend the plants from which seeds are to be saved, to be 
placed on a shelf in the green-house, and as soon as ripe the seeds should 
be sown, by which means you will have well established plants before winter. 
Sow the seeds in a shallow box, and transplant them as they become too 
thick. Having plenty of young plants, I have just put six into the open 
ground to try if they will stand the winter, placing little glasses over them_ 
at night. I have had six old plants out for about three months, which have 
done well ; but, being a second bloom, the flowers are not so large ; indeed 
they are the plants from which the young ones have been raised, and were 
turned out after the seed was gathered. — Z. Nov. 5. 1827, 


Answers to Queries, and Queries. 493 


Forming a new Garden. (In reply to W. M., Vol. Il. p.254.)—I will 
endeavour to give what information I can from experience in a similar 
case; but first I must warn W. M. of the comparatively immense expense 
attending the forming and tilling a spot of earth such as he has named. 

About four years ago I first began to improve a small spot of earth, partly 
composed of the strongest clay I ever saw; it cut out just like new cheese; the 
extent of the spot operated upon was 128 ft. by 15-ft. I first digged into 
the surface six large loads of small chalk rubbish from the limekiln, about 
the same quantity of sifted coal ashes, and a good dressing of dung ; it was 
frequently digged and turned for the purpose of breaking the clods and 
rendering it friable ; and being compelled to repeat the digging frequently, 
I was obliged to sacrifice many crops by getting them off the ground before 
they were properly matured. In the beginning of last April, I could not 
begin before, on account of the wetness. of the earth (it was not soil yet), 
I trenched it 24 ft. deep, took out the bottom, and turned down the top 
improved soil ; digged in about four loads of screened brick rubbish, and old 
mortar from an old building, about two large cart loads of screened coal 
ashes, and a good dressing of dung; and it is not at present much more 
than half tilled. So much for the indispensable trouble, labour, and expense 
of improving a spot of ground only measuring 1920 ft. superficial, and con- 
taining only 4800 ft. cubic measure. 

I am satisfied that W. M. cannot proceed in any other way with equal 
advantage, if the earth is of the strong nature he represents it to be. If 
he makes patchwork of it, by domg a bit at a time, it will never be 
done, or rendered into a good friable soil while he lives. I must caution 
W.M. not to use any road sand, I mean the scrapings of country 
roads; for although this is, under some circumstances, sufficiently friable, 
yet nothing binds harder in a moist situation when pressed by the feet, 
and this is unavoidable in performing the various operations of garden 
culture. From the foregoing facts and observations it may be learned, 
that no man can expect to do more than barely make a living upon a farm 
that is on a strong clayey soil, as one of only a moderate extent would 
swallow up a large fortune in an attempt to change the surface of it, if it 
were only to the depth of one foot. 1 herewith send you a sample of the 
earth in its improved state. [Red clay, as hard as sand stone.] — W. Green, 
jun. Stepney. ' : ? 

A large brown Grub.— Could you give us any information how to 
destroy the large brown grub, that.‘is so destructive in the summer to the 
potatoes and other vegetables? We suffered severely by it last winter, 
and I see there are numbers of them still alive, now we are digging the 
ground. I tried salt, lime, soot, tobacco liquor, &c., last summer, with no 
effect. — Walter Lee. Bristol, Feb. 1826. 

Destroying Insects by Toads. — Many gardeners constantly put a toad 
into their cucumber frames, merely giving him a pan of water, and they 
find that he clears their frames of slugs and millepedes, or wood lice. It has 
always been my opinion that toads live on slugs, as they never move out 
till the evening, when these creatures also are on the move. Can any of 
your correspondents inform me if this really is the case, to their certain 
knowledge ?—Rusticus in Urbe. January. ; 

Wire-worms.— I am teased to death with the wire-worm in my garden, 
which seems to revel on the Jridex, pinks, lobelias, and plants of that 
character. I have tried lime, sulphur, salt, potash, soot, all which kill 
them, it is true, but the quantity required would prove a worse remedy 
than the disease. With a coat of mail like Achilles’s, this grub resists every 
ordinary application, and effects his purposes in security. Do you know of 
any remedy? Ihave seen two or three queries in the Magazine, but no 


4.94: iit Obituary. 


reply. My subsoil is a clay, which I fear is an unsurmountable’ evil. — 
A. B. B. Caermarthen.— We know of no remedy. Burying slices of tur- 
nip, potato, apple, or other supposed tempting bait, has been recommended, 
and taking up the bait every day or two, and picking off the worms till the 
ground was cleared. A moderate quantity of bait, it is supposed, might 
clear a whole garden or field. We wish much that some of our readers 
would try the experiment, and send us the result. They will find farther 
details in Kirby and Spence’s Entomology, a work which we have already 
recommended every master who wishes to keep down insects to procure, 
and lend to his gardener. — Cond. ; 

Urtice@.—I1 wish some one would be so kind as to inform me what resem- 
blance there is between the Ficus carica and the nettle, as I find the com- 
mon fig is classed under Urticeze, I am strongly inclined to suspect that 
this new system will zever stand alone, but will always be coupled with the 
Linnean. — W. G. Stepney, Aug. 1827. 

Powder of Horsechestnuts, (p.352.)— How is it made ? — Superficial.— 
By drying and grinding, we suppose. — Cond. 

Woodpeckers, as Destroyers of Insects. — Would it be at all worth a line 
in your Magazine, to propose that the preservers of the Parks should enclose 
in nets afew of the most secluded spots in the Parks, and at Kensington 
Gardens, and, as the season approaches, employ persons in the country to. 
eatch pairs of woodpeckers, and other birds of similar habits, and shut them 
in these enclosures ; and especially when the young ones are first hatched, 
and can be brought with the mother, and be confined while she is at liberty 
to range and provide for them? Might not all except the young at 
that season have their liberty, and would not parental care accustom the 
birds to the neighbourhood of their enemy man, especially if the keepers 
were numerous, and were to ward off the annoyance of boys, while the birds 
indulged in the superabundance and Juxury which the Parks, according to 
all accounts, must afford. 

The Germans destroyed these birds, and the evil of the insects increased, 
and they then ceased to kill even that portion which they had previously 
been used to destroy, and the evil was gradually and effectually removed ; 
so said my informant in Saxony twenty-six years ago. — O. T. April, 1827. 

Gigantic Pine. —I have cast up all the rubbish, chippings of stone, &c., 
into a mount on the outside of the wall of a very ancient camp, which 
bounds my place of residence, and I wish much to plant some curious 
gigantic pine on it as a landmark; can you help me by stating the sort 
that you think will answer, and where | shall be likely to find it ? —J. B. 
Kent, Feb. 7. 1827. 


Art. XII, Obituary. 


Diep, at Hull, on the 17th of December last, William Donn, C.M.H.S., 
Curator of the Botanic Garden of that place, which situation he held since 
its establishment sixteen years ago, and discharged the duties thereof to the 
entire satisfaction of the subscribers. It is but justice to the memory of 
Mr. Donn, to say that his knewledge of plants, and their mode of cultiva- 
tion, was equal to that of most men of his day. His .experience in horti- 
culture commenced in Scotland, where he was born in Fifeshire, in 1787. 
He lived some years at the late Dr. Swainson’s, of Twickenham, and after- 
wards at Sion House, under the late Mr. Hoy: thence he went to Hull. 
Mr. Donn was the nephew of the late Mr. Donn of Cambridge. —B. Jan. 
1828. 


INDEX. 


Dt arene heating by hot water, attempted 
at by Mr. Bacon, 187. 

Accentuation of the names of plants, errors in, 
Pointed out, 488. : 

Acclimatising plants, experience in, by Mr. 
John Street, C.M.H.S., 48. 

Acon, Mr. James, C.M.H.S, on the growth of 
early and late crops of grapes, 43. 

Aconitum napéllus, virtues of, 73. 

A’corus Calamus, virtues of, 73. 

Adansonia digitata, account of, and figure, 450. 

Agave americana as found in Catalonia, 209. 

Agricultural and horticultural society of Aus- 

» tralia, 100, 101. 

Agricultural model school of Munster, notice 
respecting, 472. 

Aenenloural establishment at Gern, in Bavaria, 

Agricultural society of Jamaica, 97. 

Agricultural society of Lincolnshire, notice re- 
specting, 332. 

Agriculture and botany of Ghent, notice of, 95. 

Agriculture, application of steam to, 242. 

Agriculture of Flanders, notice of, 92. 

Agronome. Autobiography of, and various 
hints, 15; on conducting a gardener’s maga- 
zine, 287 ; on salt, &c., 151. 

Allnut, John, Esq., F.H.S., call at his villa, 362. 

Almanac, the British, notice of, 461. 

Almanac, the Tasmanian, notice of, 462. 

spaend, sweet and bitter, medical properties of, 

Alstroeeméria hirtélla, notice of its culture, 298. 

Althea officinalis, medical properties of, 457. 

Amalia aérisincola, as treated in the Botanic 
garden at Barcelona, 209. 

Amaryllis vittata, on the culture of, by Mr. 
Francis Faldermann, C.M.H.S , 300. 

American blight, destruction of, on fruit trees, 
by Mr. Charles Sharp, 278; see A‘phis lani- 
gera. 

American forest trees, remarks respecting, by 
Mr. Prince, 210 

American grapes, notice respecting, 211. 

Amyegdalus communis, medical properties of, 323. 

Amyris Katof, supposed to be the plant yield- 
ing*the myrrh, 352. 

Ananissa bracteata, notice of, 69. 

Anemone, query on a disease of, 382; answer 

» to, 490, 

Anise, culture of, in France, 92. 

Annales de la Société d’ Horticulture de Paris, 
reviewed, 202, 443, 

A*phis lanigera, successful mode of destroying, 
by Mr. R. Turner, 30; various species of, 471. 

Apple, Carlisle codlin, notice of, 439. 

Apple, Coe’s golden drop, notice of, by T. 
Rivers, jun. Hertfordshire, 353, 

Apple, reinette franche, excellence of, 106. 

Apple, scarlet perfume, 126. 

Apple, the Borovitsky of Pom, Mag., 459. 

Apple, the oslin of P. M., 330. 

Apple, the sugar-loaf pippin of P. M., 330. 

Apple tree, on its culture and management 
when trained against a wall, by Mr. Charles 
Harrison, F.H.S., 1. 

Apples and nuts, large specimens of, 218. 

Apples, experiment on pitting, by Mr. Robert 
Marnock, 283; mode of preserving by slicing 
and drying, 215; of Portugal, 95; on the 
preservation of, by Mr. David Gibb, 9; query 
on preserving, 382; to preserve by pitting, 

On| 


Apricot, the Hemskirke of P.M., 459 ; Roman of 
P. M., 459; the royalof P. M., 330. 

Architecture, remarks on its progress and pre- 
sent state in England, 76 ; principles of beauty 
in, 76; Grecian and Gothic style of, 77. 

Arracacha, notice of, 217. 

Arracacha plants, notice of the introduction 
Sen by William Hamilton, Esq., M.D., 


Asclépias syriaca, or Virginian swallow wort, 
query respecting, 3/6. 

Ash, white, Fraxinus americana, notice of, 363. 

Asategus, tricks performed on, in Petersburg, 


Autenreith, Dr., and Dr. Maux, their experi- 
ments on male and female plants, 90. 

Auriculas, canker in, query on, 121. 

Auricula, prospectus of a work on, 89. 

Ayrshire Horticultural Library, 116. 

Bacon, Anthony, Esq., F.H.S., notice respect- 
ing his mode of heating hot-houses by hot 
water, 425. 429, 

Bailly, M., on Thouin’s Cours, &c., 447. 

Bailley, Saint-Martin, on the culture of tobacco 
in Holland, 84 

Baillie, Mr. William,on the Pinetum and Flower- 
gardens at Dropmore, 257. 

Bajoni’s Metodo per conservare il Vino noticed, 
84. 


Banks of rivers, on planting with fruit trees, by 
Mr. John Robertson, F.H.S,, 178. 

Barbacénia purptreus, notice of, 318. 

Barley, early field of, 226. F 

Barnet, Mr. James, curator of the Caledonian 
Society’s garden, on vines,trained on hanging 
trellises, 417. 

Barometer, recommended by the Hort. Soc., 177. 

Barrow, Mr, John, on heating hot-houses by . 
hot water, 423. 

Battersea nursery, notice respecting, 480. 

Bear-bind, query on, 120. 

Beattie, Bishop, and Mitchell, Messrs., query 
respecting forest trees, 306. 

Beattie, Mr. William, C.M.H.S., on destroying 
the scaly insect, 307. 

Beauty of lines and forms, theory of, by R. R. 
Reinagle, Esq., R.A., 247. 4 

Bee-boxes of Poland, 470. 

Bee-boxes, retrocoupling, description of, 414. 

Beech trees of Denmark, 96 . 

Bees, machine for indicating the swarming of, 
105. 

Beet-root, notice of sugar produced from, in 
France, 342. 

Benefit societies, 116. 

Bérberis Aquifolium, 97. ‘ 

Berlése, Abbé, on the flower market of Paris, 
44.6, 

Bétula papyracea, 313. 

Beyrich, Mr., of Brazil, on the bread fruit, 441; 
on the culture of the pine-apple in Brazil, 442. 

Bickley Place, 189. j 

Birds, preventive for their taking up seeds, by 
W. Green, jun. Stepney, 374, 

Bishop, Beattie, and Mitchell, Messrs., query 
respecting forest trees, 306. 4 ’ 
Bisset, Mr. Alexander, on a revolving forcing 

frame, 170; on the utility of employing turf 
in forwarding early vegetables, 193, 
Blacking garden walls, on a composition for, by 
W. Green, jun., Stepney, 374. : 
Blackburnia, the great palm of Hale, notice of 
110, 


4.96 


Blaikie, Thomas, Esq., C.M.H.S., on the locust 
tree of Cobbett, 308. : 

Blair, Mr. Thomas, on the hardy fruits of Upper 
Canada, 313. 

Blight and fire-blast on fruit trees, remarks on, 
by Mr. Robert Sutherland, 278, | 

Blight, notice of a plan for lessening the ten- 
dency to, by W. Cotton, Esq., 174. 

Bonafous’s Osservazione, &c., noticed, 338. 

Books for Garden Libraries, religious, 116; 
scientific, 116. _ 3 

Booth, Mr. Wm. Beattie, A.L.S., on a Meteor- 
oligical Journal, &c., 176. ; 

BorAssus flabelliférmis, sugar produced from, in 
Ceylon, 213. : 

Bosse, Mr. M., on filling up the gaps in plant- 
ations, 317; on soils, &c., 437. a 

Bostrichus pinipérdus, and Scdlytus destractor, 
query on destroying, 378. i 

Botanical and Horticultural Society of Durham, 
Northumberland, and Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 

~ meeting of, June 29th, 235 ; at Hexham, June 
26, 235; at Newcastle, Aug. llth, and Sept. 
7th, 236. : 

Botanical Garden, contemplation of one at Man- 
chester, 352. : 

Botanical Lessons, by Miss Kent, 104. 

Botanical names, remarks on changing, 121. 

Botanical Society of Wirtemberg, 94. 

Botanic garden of Berlin, notice of, 93; of 
Brussels, 95; of Ceylon, notice respecting, by 
Sir Alexander Johnston, 99; of Chelsea, 103 ; 
numerous sorts of wheat, barley, and oats 
raised in, 103; of Edinburgh, 105 ; of Mexico, 
98; of New York, 97 ; of Perpignan, notice of, 
90; of Warsaw, plan and description of, 338. 

Botanic names, criticism on the etymology of, 
370. 

Botany, course of popular lectures on, at Edin- 
burgh, 105. é i ; 

Botany of Aule, 98; of the Birman Empire, ex- 

* ploring by Dr. Wallich, 213. 

Bourgene de Canadie, 313. gg 

Boyce, Mr., hints by, for the cultivation of the 
truffle, 102 ‘ 

Br4ssica oleracea, or cow cabbage, notice re- 
specting, 351. 

Bread fruit, on the property and use of, in Bra- 
zils by Mr. Beyrich of Brazil, 441.1 

Breeding in and in, remarks on, 75. 

Bregazzi’s bark-bed thermometer, described and 
figured, 215; hot-house thermometer, de- 

‘scribed and figured, 215. 

British Fruitery, and Florist’s Gazette, proposal 
for, 359. 

Bromley Hill, high order and keeping of, 246. 

Brown, Capt. Thomas, proposed work on the 
auricula, 89. 

Brown, Robt., F.R.S,, &c., 89. 

Buckingham Palace, notice respecting, 476. 

Buck’s scarlet rhubarb, notice of, 172. 

Bullock, Mr., notice of his newly founded town 
of Hygeia, 349; ‘‘ Sketch of a Journey through 
the Western States of North America,” notice 
of, 349. 

Burial of Mr. Hollis, criticism on, 369. 

Burnet, exhilarating quality of, 352. 

Busby’s Treatise on the Vine, noticed, 462. 

Butler and gardener,comparative expenses of,32. 

Cabbage, account of a large one, 351; another, 


Cabbage, tree variety, or cow cabbage, notice 
respecting, 351. 

Cactus specidsa, to flower in the open air, 65; 
treatment of, by Mr. Fleischinger, 317. 

Ceesalpinia coriaria, used for tanning in Cartha- 
gena, 212. 

Calceolaria integrifdlia and corymbosa, criticism 
on statement concerning, 371. 

Calceolaria integrif dlia, notice of a half hardy 
suffruticose variety, 69. 

Calceolaria'purptrea, in flower in the Edinburgh 
Botanic Garden, 226. 3 

Caledonian Horticultural Society, Memoirs of, 


INDEX. 


reviewed, 55 ; documents fespecting the gar- 
den, 55. 

Caledonian Horticultural Society, see Horticul- 
tural Society, Caledonian. 

Caledonian Lodge of Gardeners, notice of, 105. 

Camels note on grafting, by Mr. Stewart Mur- 
ray, 28. 

Cameliias, cultivation of, in an open border, by 
Mr. Joseph Harrison, 181. 

Camellias, new mode of grafting, by Geo. Dun- 
bar, Esq., of Rose Park, 56, 

Cameron, Mr. Daniel, on grafting the peach, 
nectarine, and apricots on stocks of their own 
kind, 149. 

Cameron, Mr. David, A.L.S., on destroying the 
red spider in hot-houses, 277. 

Cameron, Mr.John, on the conduct of gardeners 
and their employers, 156. kj 

Canada, cellars for keeping potatoes, description 
of, 405. 

Centharides fly, proposal,to cultivate in France, 
92. 


Capsicum, medical properties of, 323. 

Caragana frutéscens, notice of, 320. 

Cardoon, on the varieties of, and method of cul- 
tivating them, by Mr. Andrew Mathews, 
A.L.S., 46. 

Carica papaya, notice of a fruit of, 109. 236, 

Carlsruhe, history of the gardens of, 204. 

Carnation show of Lancaster, 114. 

Carnations, lists of select sorts, 142, 114. 

Caryophyllus aromaticus, the clove spice, de- 
scribed and figured, 66. 

Carydta Urens,. importance of, in Ceylon, 213. 

Casks tainted, to render sweet, 478. : 

Cassia sénna, virtues of, 73. 

Catalogue of Fruits of the Horticultural So- 
ciety, criticism on, 371—374. 

Catalogue raisonné, 66. 195. 318. 449. 

Catalpa seed, notice ofa long pod of, 364. 

Catdlpa syringit dlia, notice of, 364. 

Cauliflowers, large, 216. 

Cauliflower, method of obtaining an early crop 
of, 302. 

Cena rapid growth of one at St. Ann’s Hill, 


Celery, mode of culture late in the autumn, 174. 
Celery, on the culture of, by T. A. Knight, Esq. 
F.B.S., &c. 57. 
Cherries, ideas on forcing, by Mr. Schultze, of 

Potsdam, 433. ; - iB 

Cherries, remarks on forcing, by Mr Fintel- 
mann, 64. 203 

Cherry, Chinese, culture of, by T. A. Knight, 
Esq., 182. : 

Cherry, doppelte maikirsche, 64. i 

Chevalier’s Flore de Paris, &c. noticed, 78. 

Chiswick Féte, reply to Philo-Olitorum, by Oli- 
tor, 357. 

Chloride of lime, preserving qualities of, 354. 

Chrysanthemum indicum, on the culture and 
propagation of, by Mr. A, C. Lambie, 291. 

“ Circle of the Seasons,” reviewed, 332, 

Citrus tribe, culture of, by an amateur, 272, 

Cloud Berry, Aibus Chamzmodrus, query re- 
specting, 3/6. =e 

Clove spice, described and figured, 67. 

Cobbett’s nursery, Kensington, call at, 363, 

Céccus lanigera, or A‘phis lanigera, and other 
species, notice respecting, 471. 

Cockchaffer, experiment with the grubs of, by 
the Conductor, 336; letter on, by Mr. Calvert 
of Rouen, 334. . 

Cockchaffer, or Ver Blanc of the French horti- 
culturists, remarks on by Wm. Swainson, Esq., 

"RS. L.S., &c., 225; pamphlet on, by Mr, 
Vibert, 334; remarks on, by Mr, Main, 334; 
by Superficial, 487. 

Cocoa nut palm, favoured in its growth by salt, 
62; trees form a screen on the shores of Cey- 
lon, 62 } : 

Cdcos nucifera, importance of in Ceylon, 213. 

Coffee bean and plants, 119. : 

Célchicum, poisonous effects of, 92. 


INDEX. 


Collinsza grandifiora, figured and described, 319. ! 

Collington House, holly hedges at, 184. ! 

Compost, remarks on forming, by W. It. ¥., 290. | 

Concentration of the sun’s rays, on heating 
water by, 367. 

Conium, criticism on the derivation of, 369. 

Cornfield, Mr., an eminent fancy florist, of 
Northampton, 238. 

Cottages, criticism on the position of, 368. 

Cotoneaster microphylla, notice of, 320. 

Cotton, nankeen variety of, 212. 

Cotton, W. Esq., on improving an old garden 
“wall, 174. ; 

Covent Garden Market, measures used in, re- 
marks on, by Superficial, 476; report for 
per nes, 1827, 361; for February, 1828, 

d 

Cow cabbage, notice respecting, by Dr. Hamil- 
ton of Plymouth, 35). 

Cows, suggestion for an artificial mode of milk- 
ing, 245. 

Cow tree, and milk of, described, 212. 

Crate ssus oxyacanthotdes, and other species, 
453. 

Osinum lengifolium. hardy at New York, 212. 

ores versicolor, remarks on its colouring, 
4g 


Crops, natural law of succession of, 298. 

Cucumber bed, idea for a movable one, by Mr. 
Thomas Hawkins, 32. 

Cucumbers and melons, description of a new | 
structure for growing, by Mentor, 20. 

Cucumbers, mode of procuring a crop during | 
winter, by Mr. James Reed, 23. 

Culinary vegetables, mode of preparing and pre- 
serving through the winter in Germany, 344. 

Currants, large berries of, 216 ; on preserving on | 
the tree, by James Webster, Esq., 176. 

Curtis’s Botanical Magazine, reviewed, July, 
66; August, 67; September, 195; October, 
196 ; November, 318 ; December, 319 ; January 
and February, 449. : 

Dahlias, notice of in the Bristol Nursery, 217. 

Dahlia, on the culture of in Prussia, by Mr. 
Fintelmann of: Potsdam, 439 ; on the different | 
sorts of, by Mr. William Smith, 179; query 
respecting, 381; select list of, both tall and 
dwarf, 180. 

Dairy cottage and poultry-yard, by Mr. A. Ma- 
thews, A.L.S., 135. { 

Dall, Mr. James, on the culture of the pine- 
apple, 184. 

Damp and red spider on melons, remedy for, 
218. . 

Daiicus carota, medical properties of, 459. _ 

Decandolle, M., his opinion respecting hybrids, 
44.6. 


Deepdeene, 189. y f ; 
Delphinium staphisagria, medical properties of, 
458 


Dendrometer, remarks on its use by Mr. Gorrie, 
C.M.H.S., 115. 

Denmark, gardening of, by Mr. J. P. Petersen, 
344, : 


Descharmes’s Muriate de Chaux, noticed, 82. 

Dick, Mr. John, on a frame for protecting fruit 
trees, 54. 

Dick; Mr. John, on 
trees, 192. ’ : 

Digitalis purpurea, virtues of, 72. g 

Diospyros virginica, notice of new variety of, 

- 210. 


the arrangement of fruit 


Dodder, Criscuta europea, how to separate the 
seeds from clover, 208. t aed 
Don, Mr. William, C.M.H.S., notice of his life 
and death, 488. 3 
‘Downton Castle and Gardens, query respecting, 

118. 
Dropmore, account of, 257. 
Dubois’s Pratique de Jardinage, 81. : 
Dumoutier’s method of training and pruning 
the peach-tree, 57. wat 
Dunbar, Esq., of Rose Park, on grafting Camel- 
lias, 56, % 


Vou. II]. —No. 12. 


| Egg plants, their 


497 


Dunghills, insalubrity of neighbourhood of, ¥2- 

Du-Petit-Thouars’s Notice sur la Pépiniére au 
Roule, noticed, 81. 

Dutch method of forcing at ylands, 385. E 

Dutruchet’s Agent dumouvement vital chez les 
végétaux, reviewed, 78. 

Earthenware pipes, notice respecting, 490. 

Eee Botanic Garden, notice respecting, 

Edinburgh Fruit and Vegetable Market, August 
15th, 224 , September Ist and 29th, 225. 

Edinburgh Green Market, 105. 

Eedwards’s Botanical Register, reviewed ; July 
and August, 62; September, 196; October, 
197 ; November, 319; December, 320; Janua- 
ry and Kebruary, 452. 

culture, &c., by Mr. A. Ma- 

thews, A.L.S., 171. 

Elcot, heating by water as practised at, by Mr. 
Bacon, 187. 

Elm, Scampston, 382; English, 468. 

Eiapanlaue land from the sea, query respecting, 


Emigration Committee of Ireland, remarks on, 
27, 


Emigration to the Canadas, 97. 


| Espalier for fruit trees, notice of one invented 


by Mr. Wagener of Berlin, by Mr. Ludolf, 437. 
Etymology of Botanic Names, criticism on, 370. 
Faldermann, Mr. Francis, C.M.H.S.,, on the 

culture of Amaryllés vittdta, 360. 

Farming Society of Ireland, remarks on, 229. 

Farms, melting away of small ones in Queen’s 
county in Ireland, 355, 

Ferns, collection of, at Bury Hill, 255. 

Fig tree, notice of one at Elgin, 355. 

Finlayson’s plough and harrow, application of 
steam to, 242. i 

Fintelmann, Mr., of Potsdam, on the culture of 
ihe Dahlia, 439 ; remarks on forcing cherries, 
64. 

Fion, M., a nursery florist at Paris, notice re- 
specting his collection, 445. 

Fisher, the Rev. Mr. John, on pear trees, 175. 

Fish, gold and silver, query respecting, by Mr. 
C. Hale Jessop, Cheltenham, 382. 

Fleischinger, Mr., on the treatment of Cactus 
specidsus, 317. 

Fleming’s British Farmers’ Magazine, review- 
ed; August, 74; November, 331. 

Flitwick House, appropriate order of the -gar- 
dens and grounds of, 246. 

Florist’s flowers, priced list of, by Mr. Hogg of 
Paddington, 240, 

Florists’ Gazette, and British Fruitery, proposal 
for, 359, 

Florists’ Society of Haworth, June 25th, 110; of 
Morpeth, June 25th, 110; of Uxbridge, 112; 
of Windsor, 112; of York, July 5th and 26th, 
110. 

Flower-garden, Dutch, plan of that at Drop- 
more, 261. 

Flower-garden, English, plan of Lady Gren- 

_ville’s at Dropmore, 258. 

Flower-gardens, plans of, requested, 382, 

Flower market of Paris, description of, by the 
Abbé Berlése, 446. - 

Flower show of Presten, June 27th, 111. 

Flower stage of the Lancaster Horticultural 
Society, by Mr. M, Saul, 418. 

Flowers, art of changing their colours indivi- 
dually, 217. ; : 

Flowers of plants, law of changing their co- 
lours, 216. 

Fontanelle’s Art de cultiver les Mariers, no-~ 
ticed, 78. 

Forbes, Mr. J., on the proiongation of the sea- 
son of hardy fruits, 11. 

Forcing gardening, ideas on, by Mr. Schultze of 
Potsdam, 433. 

Forcing-house, description of a movable one at 
Sans-souci, by Mr. Schultze, 445, 

Forcing, some account of the Dutch method of, 
385. 


K K 


498. 


Forest and ornamental trees, notice of some 
deserving the attention of Scottish cultivators, 
by Gilbert Laing Meason, Esq., 313. 

Forest culture of the ancients, 465. 

Forest management of Germany, notice of, 92 

Forest trees, on cutting over, when young, by 
Mr. A. Gorrie, C.M.H.S., 253; queries res- 
pecting, by Messrs. Bishop, Beattie, and Mit- 
chell, 3506. 

Forman, W., Esq., his pit for pines, &c., 172. 

Fountains and jets among the Romans, 479. 

Frames for protecting fruit trees on walls, ac- 
count of, by Mr. John Dick, 54. 

Fraxinus americana, 313. 

Fraxinus Ornus, or manna ash, 458." 

French works on botany and gardening, enu- 
merated, 82. 

Fromont Gardens, horticultural féte in, 443. 

Frost, John, Esq., F.A.S., F.L.S., F.H.S., &c., 
oration by, &c., reviewed, 324. 

Fruit eaten by rats, 218. 

Fruits, hardy, of Upper Canada, notice of, by 
Mr. Thomas Blair, 313. 

Fruits, on ornamenting, showing, preserving, 
packing, &c., by Mr. Robert Gauen, 345 

' blooming of, by Mr. R. Gauen, 34; remarks 
on the description of, 31. 

Fruit-tree borders, on mulching and watering, 
by Mr. James Smith, 311. 

Fruit-trees, economical arrangement of, by Mr. 
John Dick, 192; hardy, notice of a selection 
of names of, 355 ; on scraping the bark off, by 
Mr. Thomas Thomson, 309; on the disappoint- 
ments incident to purchasers of, by Super- 
ficial, 293; on the removal of large ones, by 
Mr. William Moore, Kast Ham, 354. 

Eulton, Mr. George, on keeping potatoes through 
the winter, 405. 

Garcinia Mangostana, figured and described, 142. 

Gardener and a butler, comparative expenses 
of, 32. 

Gardeners and labourers, criticism on a state- 

~ ment concerning, 370. 

Gardeners and their employers, conduct of, by 
Mr. J. Cameron, 156; on the cenduct of, 291. 

Gardeners’ Kalendar, notice of a tabular one, 
by Mr. Ridgeway, 328. 340. 

Gardeners’ Magazine, how to conduct, by Agro- 
nome, 287. 

Gardening at Exmouth, state of, 218. 

Gardening for ships, 216. 

Gardening of Sorgenfrie, in Denmark, 344. 

Cae hot-houses and pits, notice respecting, 
J1/0. 

Garden Libraries, Mackay’s, 115; Toxteth, 115; 
Glasgow H. S., 115; Ayrshire, 116. 

Garden of Fromont, notice of, 207; of Hamlet, 
at Elsinore, 96. 

Gardens of Rosenburgh, Denmark, 344; Sun 
Inn, Maidenhead, 481; Inn at Salt Hill, 481, 

Garden plants, medicinal qualities of, 382. 

Garden walls, composition for blacking, by W. 
Green, jun., Stepney, 374; mode of painting, 
by W. Cotton, Esq., 174; on fixing wire 
against, by Mr. T. Ingram, 13; on painting 
black, by Mr. John Henderson, 515. 

Gas, on heating water by burning, 365. 

Gauen, Mr. R., on a revolving frame, 170; on 
blooming and otherwise ornamenting, show- 
ing, and packing fruits, 34; on the concen- 
tration of the sun’s rays, 101. 

Genista tinctoria, said to be a cure for hydro- 
phobia, 218. 

Georgifili Academy of Florence, 95. 

German works on botany and gardening, re- 
viewed, 82. 

Gesntria Douglaséz, notice of, 320. 

Gibb, Mr. David, on the preservation of apples, 9. 

Gibbs’s nursery, call at, 126. 

Glasgow, prices of fruits and vegetables in, 225. 

Gloxinia maculata, culture of, by Mr. John 
Nelson, 141. 

Gloridsa supérba, culture of, by Mr. James 


Pringle, 140. , 


INDEX. 


Glycyrrhiza glabra, culture of, in France, 91. 

Godsall, Mr. W., on a horticultural plough, 139. 

Goldworth nursery, call at, 122; perfect order 
of, 247. 

Gooseberries, merits of the large sorts, by Mr. 
Saul, 121; select list of, 114; select list of, by 
Mr. Saul, 122; improvement of, by cultiva-- 
tion, 122; on training and managing, by Mr. 
M. Saul, 421; show of Lancaster, 114; show 
of Newark, July 26, 113; the Crompton’s 
Sheba Queen, P. M., 459, 

Gordon Castle, holly trees at, 185. _. 

Gordon’s kettle, on heating pits and frames by, 
by Zig-zag, 365. 

Gorrie, Mr. A., C.M.A.S., on cutting over fo- 
rest trees, 253. 

Gourds, notice of some large ones sent to the 
Conductor, 352. 

Grafting Passifloras, 102; geraniums, 102. 

Grafting under the bark, advantages of, by Mr. 
Benade, 63. 

Grain, principles of preserving, 208. 

Grape, cannon, query respecting, 379. 

Grapes and wine making, 117 

Grapes, early ripening of, on the Lower Rhine, 
in 1827, 208; notice of some ripened in the 
open air, in October, at Elgin, 354; on the 
growth of early and late crops of, by Mr. 
James Acon, C.M.H.S., 43; ripe, on the pro- 
longation of, by J. M., 12; sorts preferable for 
late crops, 46. 

Grape vine, account of a method of cultivating, 
by Mr, Ninian Niven, 311; notice of some, 
by Mr. C. Hale Jessop, Cheltenham, 353. 

Grass garden at Woburn Abbey, correction of 
an error respecting, 255. 

Grass turf, or sward, utility of employing, in 
fommarding early vegetables, by Mr. A. Bisset, 

93. 

Green fly, to destroy, on peach trees, 119. 

Creer HOUEES) suggestion for heating by a lamp, 

Green, Mr. William, on raising the vine by 
-layers, 24. ] 

Greenshiells, Mr. William, F.H.S., on the cul- 
ture of melons in an open border, 182. 

Gregory’s self-supported ladder, notice of, 230. 

Grosvenor Palace, notice respecting, 477. 

Grubs and wire worms, query respecting, 381. 

Hainault scythe, notice respecting, 226, 

Halls, Charles, Esq., notice of his garden in the 
neighbourhood of New York, 347. 

Hamelin, Baron, on the production of hybrids, 
444, ; 

Hamilton, W., Esq. M.D. of Fareham, plants 
of South America wanted by him, 98; direc- 
tions for preserving seeds and flowers by, 99 ; 
on the culture of Hyperanthtra Moringa in 
the West Indies, 157. 

Hardy fruits, on prolonging the season of, by 
Mr. J. Forbes, 11. 

Harrison, Mr. C., F.H.S., his excellent Treatise 
on Fruit Trees, and its coincidence with that 
of the Comte Lelieur, 57; on the apple tree, 
as trained against a wall, 1. 

Harrison, Mr. Joseph, on the cultivation. of 
Camellias in an open border, 181. 

Hartwig’s Hortus Carlsruhanus, reviewed, 204. 

Hawkins, Mr. Thomas, on a moveable cucum- 
ber bed, 22. : 

Hay stealers, traps for, 103. 

Heating by hot air and hot water, query re- 
specting, 375; models for, in the library of the 
Horticultural Society, 474; in Messrs. Cottam 
and Hallen’s manufactory, Winsley Street, 
474 ; origin of, in France, 429; history of, in 
England, 430; first displayed in England by 
the Comte Chabannes, 430; applied to the 
heating of baths, 432 ; account of experiments 
made by William Atkinson, Esq., by Mr. John 
Barrow, 423; W. Atkinson, Esq. proved to 

_ have been the first who successfully applied 
this art, by T. Tredgold, Esq., 427. 

Hemp, transformation of sexes in, 90. 


INDEX. 


Henderson, Mt. John, on painting garden walls 
black, 315, 

Herbert, the Hon. and Rev. William, notice re- 
specting his hybrids, 445. 

Hibiscus Althee‘a-fritex, notice of, 364; syri- 
acus, in Persia, 99. 

Hickory nut, Jaglans squambdsa, notice of, 363. 

Hlildyard, Mr. Elias, on protecting onions from 
the grub, 174. 

Hoare, Sir R. C., on the perforator, 214. 

Hogg, Mr. Thomas, of Paddington, his priced 

t list of florist flowers, 240; on the use of salt in | 
the culture of the hyacinth, 154. 

Hollis, Mr., criticism on his burial, 369. 

Holly hedges and trees, some account of, by Jo- 
seph Sabine, Esq., F.R.S., Sec. Hort. Soc., 184. 

Hood, Wm., nurseryman, obituary, 384. 

Hopetoun House, holly trees at, 185. 

Horsechestnuts, use of powder of, 352. 

Horseradish tree, culture of in the West In- 
dies, 157. 

Horticultural chemistry, by G. W. Johnston, 
Esq., 129. 269. 400. 

Horticultural depravity, 103. 

Horticultural féte in the Gardens of Fromont, 
notice of, 443, 

Horticultural impostor, 217. 

Herticultural garden at Warwick, 359. 

Horticultural Memorandum Book, suggestions 
for improvements in, by Suffolciensis, 25. 

Horticultural Plough, by Mr. W. Godsall, 137. 

Horticultural Societies of Northampton, re- 
marks on, 237; original H. S. of Northamp- 
ton, 237; Royal H.S. of Northampton, 237 ; 
Loyal H. S. of Northampton, 238. 

Horticultural Society, Caledonian, June 7, 104. 
219. 303. 

—_——. of Dumfries and Galloway, 
anniversary meeting of, Sept. 20, 221. 

——_—— of Dundee, August 1, 104. 
220. 


Sept. 14, 239. 
———— of Glasgow, 


of Evesham, meeting of, 


library of, 


115. 219. 
111. 239. 


———— of Herefordshire, July 31, 


of Hexham, 110. 

of Lancaster, 111 ; descrip- 

tion of their flower stage, 418. 

of Liverpool, 110. 

—__———_-. of London, anniversary 
féte, account of, 108 ; critical remarks on, 108 ; 
by Philo-Olitorum, 231; reply to, by Olitor, 
aoue 


——= 


—_— garden of, 
report on the new or rare plants which have 
flowered in, from March, 1825, to March, 1826, 
Part I., Tender Plants, by John Lindley, Esq., 
F.R.S., L.S., &c., 51. 


ed by, June 23, 107. : 
_— > meeting of, 
June 5, 106; 19,106; July 3, 107; 17, 107 5 
Aug. 7., 229; 21, 230; Sept. 4, 230; 18, 230 5 
Oct. 2, 356; 16, 356; Nov. 6, 356; 20, 357 ; 
Dec. 4,473; 18, 473; Jan. 1, 1898, 474; 15, 474. 
—_—- , Transactions 
of, opinion on, by W. R. Y., 32; reviewed, 
Voi. VIL. Part I., 43. ; 
—._____—___—_ of NewYork, report of, in 
February 1827, 209. 347. 
—_— of Paris, Annales of, re- 
viewed, 202. 443; notice of its formation, 207. 
——__—__——__— of Perthshire, notice of, 


222, 


Aug. I, 236. f ; 
————, Prussian, Transactions of, 


reviewed, 317. 433. 


, medals award- 


of Preston, meeting of, 


of Richmond, Aug. 9, 
July 25, 112; 


239, 
of Ross, 


, Oct 10, 359, 


K K 


499 


Horticultural Society of Strathmore, account of 
its origin, 223; meeting, Aug. 23, 224, 

ot Yorkshire, July 18, 109 ; 
Sept. 5, 233; Sept. 26, 234. 

Horticulture of Van Dieman’s Land, some ac- 
count of, 462. 

Horteulture of New York, some account of, 


Hosack, Dr., of New York, notice respecting, 


Hosie, Mr. Robert, on oak coppices, 303, 

Hot-bed for cucumbers in winter, advantages of 
forming in a vinery, 23. 

Hot-bed frames, method of protecting,’ during 
winter, by Mr, E. M. Mather, 417. 

Hot-houses of the Gardens of Carlsruhe, de- 
scribed and figured, 205. 

Hot-houses, animproyed method of ventilating, 
by Mr. John Tweedie, 305. 

Hot-houses, suggestions as to the mode of heat- 
ing by hot water, 254. 

Hot-houses, with iron roofs, opinion on, 254. 

gu walers Earl Powis’s mode of heating by, 
I/D. 

Hot water, on heating hot-houses by, as em- 
ployed in the garden of Anthony Bacon, Esq., 
by Mr. W. Whale, 186. 

Hot water, on the cheapest mode of heating a 
hot-house by, 366. 

Hot water, query on heating by, 382. 

Houses and persons, pamphlet on preserving 
from the great heat of summer, noticed, 337. 

Hoyass, culture of the different species, by Mr. 
James Traill, 47. 

Himulus Lipulus, medical virtues of, 323. 

Hunt’s Architectural Designs, reviewed, 76. 

Hyacinth, note on Mr. Campbell’s mode of 
growing, 162. 

Hyacinths, erroneous remarks of Rusticus in 
Urbe pointed out, 486. 

Hybrids, on the production of, by Baron Hamce- 
lin, 444. 

Hydrangea, notice of a fine one at Ashburn- 
ham Place, Sussex, by Mr. B. Battle, 352 ; no. 
tice of one at Amrath Castle, Pembrokeshire, 
392; remarkable specimen of, at St. Mary’s 
Isle, 226; at Dysart House, 226. 

Hygeia, in the State of Ohio, notice of, 349. 

Hygrometer recommended by Hort. Soc., 177. 

Hylands, Dutch method of torcing there, 385, 

Hyperanthéra Moringa, by Dr. Hamilton, 157, 

Java, botany of, by Dr. Blume, 89. 

Ice and ice-houses, on the management of, by 
Mr. J. Young, 138 ; by Mr. R. Saunders, 404. 

Ice, query on preserving above ground, 381. 

Jessop, Mr. C. Hale, on Dyer’s retrocoupling 
bee-boxes, 414. 

Mex chinénsis, 313. 

Improvements, hints for, 478. 

Indigo, culture of, on the coast of Coromandel, 
214, 


Ingram, Mr. T,, on fixing wire against garden 
walls, 13, 

Insects on cucumber; frames, query on destroy- 
ing, 381. 

Inia Helénium, medical properties of, 457. 

Johnson, G, W., Esq., on horticultural chemis- 
try, 129. 269. 400. 

Johnston, Sir Alexander, notice respecting Cey- 
lon, 99. - : 

Journal @ Agriculture des Pays-Bas, reviewed, 
84, 


Ireland, Farming Society of, remarks on, 229. 

—, Emigration Committee of, remarks on 
297. 

Tridez, collection of, in the garden of David 
Falconar, Esq., 488. 

Tridez vere, query respecting, 380. 

Tris florentina, virtues of, 73. : 
Tris, species of, wanted by D. F., 118; collection 
of D. F., 458. f 
Irvine, G. W., Esq., on the Leith Walk Lin. 

nean Society, 471. 
Jiglans alba americana, 313, 
9) 


<2 


500 


{ 
Ivy on timber trees, how to remove effectually, 
350. 


Kensington Gardens, and the Parks adjoining, 
notice respecting, 470. 

Knight, T. A., Esg., F.R.S., Pres. Hort. Soc., 
&c., on the culture of celery, 51; on the cul- 
ture of the Chinese cherry, 182. 

Knowledge for the poor in France, notice of, 
342. 

Labels for trees, notice respecting, 470. 

Labouring classes, experiment with a view of 
bettering their condition, by John Moggridge, 
Esq., 162. 

La Gasca, Professor Don Mariano, his collection 
of wheats, barleys, and oats, 103. 

Lambie, Mr. A. C., on the culture, &c. of Chry- 
santhemum indicum, 291. 

Lamps, gas, of shops, on heating water by, 36/7. 

Land, query on embanking from the sea, 381. 

Landreth, wiessrs. D. and C., notice of their 
nurseries at Philadelphia, 348. - 

Lathyrus ‘grandifldrus, query on introduction 
of, by W. Swainson, Esq., of Tittenhanger 
Green, 377. q 

Latrus Céx2phora, found hardy in Georgia, 212. 

Leaves and weeds, query on rotting, 380. 

Leaves, explanation of tbe fall of, 354. 

Leclere, M. Oscar, notice respecting, 447. 

Leith Walk Linnean Society, origin of, 471. 


Lelicur, Comte, different modes of training de- | 


scribed in his Pomone Frangaise, 57. 

Library in a haberdasher’s shop, 252. _- 

Library for gardeners, books recommended for, 
Ad. u : 

Library of the Glasgow Botanic Garden, 252.’ 

Library of Glasgow Horticultural Society, 115. 

‘Library of Useful Knowledge, noticed, 462. 

Lime, query respecting, as a manure, 382. 

Lime, chloride of, effect on decomposing {bo- 
dies, 354. 

Limekilns of Mr. Menteath, notice respecting, 
007, 

Lindegaard, P., I'sq., C.M.H.S., his eminence 
as a gardener in Denmark, 345. 

Lindley, John, Esq., F.R.S., L.S., &c., report on 
plants which have flowered in the garden of 
the Horticultural Society, 51. 

Link, Prof., of Berlin, on the effects of frost cn 
plants, 63. 

Linnean garden at Flushing, near New York, 
. 210; notice of the collection there by Viator, 
347; farther notice, 465. 

Linnean Society of Leith Walk, 471. 

Linnean Society of Londen, 475. 

Liquorice plant, culture of in France, 91. 

Locust honey, Gleditschéa triacanthos, notice 
of, 363; locust, common, 363. 

Locust tree of Mr. Cobbett, remarks on, by 
Thomas Blaikie, Esq., C.M.H.S., &c., 308. 

Locust tree, Robinza Psetd-acacia, notice of 363. 

Leddige’s Botanical Cabinet, reviewed ; July and 
May, 70; Sept., 197; Oct. 198; Nov. and Dec. 
321; Jan. and Feb. 454. 

Lomeni’s Bachi da Seta, noticed, 338. 

London fruit and vegetable market, 240. 

London University, notice respecting, 469. 

Lose’s Promenade de Monza, noticed, 84. 

Euckock, Mr. James, on rhubarb stalks, 280, 

Tudolf, Mr., on a fruit espalier, 437. 

Machine for applying lime or other powder to 
fruit trees, description of, by C. P., 30. 

Mackay’s Clapton Nursery Library, 115; den- 
drometer presented to, by Mr. Gorrie, 115. 

Mackenzie Sir George, on the advantage of ga- 
thering pears before they are ripe, 175. 

Magazine of Natural History, hints for, 89; 
notice of, 341. 

Magnoléa Soulangédna, notice of, 445. 

Maidenhead, gardens of the Sun Inn at, notice 
respecting, 481. 

Main, Mr., on the fruits of Malacca, 142. 

Malacca, on the fruits of,,by Mr. Main, 142. 

Manchester, contemplation of a botanical gar- | 
den at, 352. 


INDEX. 


Manna, method of procuring, 458. 

Market gardens of New York, 347. 

Marnock, Mr. Robert, on an experiment on pit- 
ting apples, 283. 

Mather, Mr. E.M. on protecting hot-bed frames, 
417. 

Mathews, Mr. A., A.L.S, on a dairy cottage 
and poultry yard, 135; on esculent egg plants, 
171 ; on the culture of cardoons, 46. 

Maund’s botanic garden, reviewed, July and 
Aug., 72; Sept. and Oct., 199 ; Nov. and Dec., 
322; Jan. and Feb., 456. 

Maurandia Barelaidna, notice of, 320. 

Male and female plants, transformation of, 90. 

Mearns, Mr. John, F.H.S., on an autumnal crop 
of raspberries, 174. 

Meason, Gilbert Laing, Esq., on some forest and 
ornamental trees deserving the attention of 
Scottish cultivators, 313. 

Medical botany, reviewed, May, 72; June, July, 
and Aug., 73; Sept., 189; Qct., 200; Nov., 
323; Dec., 324; Jan. & Feb., 457. 

Melons, culture of, on an open border, by Mr. 
Wm. Greenshiells, F.H.S., 182. 

, remedy for the red spider and damp 
on, 218. 

Mémoires d’ Agriculture, &c. of the Paris Agri- 
cultural Society, notice of, 337. 

Méntha, medical properties of, 324. 

Mérault’s Art du Jardinier, noticed, 203. 

Metamorphosis of Plants, 90. 

Meteorological Journal, plan for and specimen 
of, by Mr. Wm. Beattie Booth, A.LS., 176. 
Michtia Champdea, figured and described, 142. 
Middleton, Mr. A., design of a vinery for the 

. earliest and latest grapes, 17. 

Mildew, query on, 119 

Milk of the cow tree, notice of, 212. 

Mimulus moschatus, 452 ; floribandus, 453. 

Mitchell, Beattie, and Bishop, Messrs., query re- 
specting forest trees, 306. 4 

Mitchell, Dr., of New York, notice respecting, 
345; address to the New York Horticultural 
Society, reviewed, 86. . 

Mitchell’s Dendrologia, and other works, no- 
ticed, 460. = 

Moggridge, John, Esq., on bettering the condi- 
tion of the labouring classes, 162; on the 
Athenian poplar, 410. 

Moles, to destroy, 90. a 

Monteath’s Reports on woods and plantations, 
reviewed, 201. 


-| Moon, supposed influence of, on vegetation, 464. 


Moredun, holly hedge at, 185. 

Morina pérsica, culture of, by Mr. E. Seitz, of 
Munich, 438. : 
Moscow, economical society and agricultural 

school of, 96. & 

Moss earth, origin of, 331. 

Moss roses of Portugal, 95. 

Mouldiness in timber, to prevent, 92. 

Mowbray, Mr. W., on setting the fruit of Passi- 
floras, 176. = 

Mulberries and walnuts, rapid production of 
from transplanted trees, 353. = 

Mulberry, black, dormant vital powers of, 208. 

Mulberry tree, quickest mode of raising, 217. 

Mulberry trees, notice of a number growing on 
the estate of Lord Kingston, county of Cork, 
355 5; queries respecting, 379. 

Murray, John, Esq. F.A.S. L.S. H.S. G.S. &e., 
on hail-protectors, 159. 

Murray, Mr. Stewart, A.L.S., description of a 
tally for naming plants, 28; on grafting the 
camellia, 28. . 

Mushroom, a large one, 218; notice of a re- 
markable one, 355. : 

Mustard plants, medical virtues of, 323. 

ee tree of the Gospel, Salvaddra pérsica, 


Myrica cerifera, wax produced by, in the gar- 
dens of Carlsruhe, 206. 

Myristica officinalis, the nutmeg tree, figured 
and described, 67. 


INDEX. 


Myrrh, notice of a reward for the discovery of 
the plant yielding it, 352. 

Nash, Mr. James, on Pxdnia mottan, 293. 

Nectarine, red Roman and Newington, charac- 
ter of their leaves, 32. . 

Nelson, Mr. John, on the culture of Gloxinéa 
maculata, 141. 

Nepénthes distillatdria, in flower in the Edin- 
burgh botanic garden, 226. 451. 

Beye eluts Zappaceum, figured and described, 


New trellis, notice of some vines selected for, by 
Mr. C. H. Jessop, 353. 

New York Linnean botanic garden, 210. 

Niven, Mr. Ninian, on a new method of culti- 
vating the grape vine, 311. 

North British Professional Gardener’s Society, 
June 13th, 104. 

Nurseries of New York, Mr.Hogg’s, Mr. Price’s, 
Mr. Floy’s, Mr. Wilson’s, Mr. Shaw’s, 347. 
Nurseries of Philadelphia, of D. and C. Land- 

reth, of John Bartram, and of Robert Carr, 
Esq., 348. 
Nursery garden of Caraccas, 98. 
Nutmeg tree, described and figured, 67; notice 
of its culture in Trinidad, 212. 
Nuts and apples, large specimens of, 218. 
Oak, black, Quércus nigra, notice of, 363. 
Oak coppice woods, observations on, by Mr. 
Robert Hosie, 303. % 
Oak, English, fortunes of defended, by Quercus 
-Secundus, 285. 
Oak, white, Quércus Alba, notice of, 363. 
Oatlands, calls at, 124. 
Oats, wonderful stalks of, 226. 
Olea excélsa in Ireland, 106. 
Onions, to protect from the grub, by Mr. Elias 
Hildyard, 174. 
Grache, culture of, by Mr. Wm. Townsend, 178. 
Orange and other trees, on importing trom 
France, 455. 
Orange, rapid and successful mode of grafting, by 
Mr. James Reeve, 26. 
Orchard in miniature, an account of, by Malus, 


Orchard of Clydesdale, notice of, 225. 

Orchardists, remarks on the disappointments 
incident to, 31. 

Orchidez, transportation of, notice on, by W. 

“- Swainson,-Esq. of Tittenhanger Green, 377. 

Orchideous Plants of Chile, 98. 

Orchideous Plants, roots of, dried and packed 
like seeds, 69. 

Order and neatness, remarks on, 245 ; premiums 
awarded to gardeners for, 246, 

Orme de Sibérie, 513. 

Ornithogalum, use of in Italy, 95. 

O’rnus rotundif dlia, 458. 

Otto, Mr. M., on the culture of Tetragdnia ex- 
pansa, 318. 

O’xalis caprina, notice respecting, 490. 

Pxdnia iMoitan, on propagating, by grafting 

, on Pebdnia officinalis, by Mr. James Nash, 
293. 

Palaiseau’s Jardin imaginaire, noticed, 81. 

Papaver Rhee’as, notice of, 73. 

Papworth, John B., Esq , a distinguished archi- 
tect and landscape-gardener, 347. 

Paragréles, notice respecting, 465; on the em- 
ployment of, in Britain, by John Murray, Esq. 
F.A.S. L.S. H.S. G.S., &c., 159. 

Paris quadrif dlia, virtues of, 72. - 

Pasieka, or log hive of Poland, 470. i 

Passifldra palmata, notice of, 371 ; quadrangula- 
ris, grafted on P. cerilea, 102. 

Passifloras, on setting the fruit of, by Mr. W. 
Mowbray, 176. 

Peach, nectarine, and apricot, proposal for 
grafting on stocks of their own kind, by Mr. 
Daniel Cameron, 149. é 

Peach, Noblesse and Gallande, character of 
their blossoms, 32. 

Peach, the Catherine, of Pom. Mag., 459; the 
Malta, P. M., 469, 


501 


Peach-tree, Montreuil, mode of training, 57; 
Dumoutier’s method, 57 ; Seymour’s mode, 57. 
61; Sieulle’s method, 60; remarks on the 
French method of cultivating, by Mr. John 
Smith, 56; stocks used for, by the French, 60. 

Pear, Beurrée d’Aremberg, 215;  Duchesse 
a’ Angouléme, origin of, 207 ; Forme de Marie 
Louise, the best standard one, 353 ; Muirfowl- 
egg, character of its shoots and footstalks of 
leaves, 32; the Summer Bonchretien of Pom. 
Mag., 460. 

Pears, advantage of gathering, before they are 
ripe, by Sir George Mackenzie, 175 ; Mr. Brad- 
dick’s new sorts, 126 ; select varieties of, 182. 

Pears on quince stocks, query respecting, 380. 

Pear trees, advantage of twisting and breaking 
down their young shoots, by the Rev. John 
Fisher, 175. 

Peas, to protect from mice, 117. 

Pareputum tricolor, grafted on other species, 


Perforator, a planting instrument invented by 
Sir R. Colt Hoare, 214. 

Persimon, Diospyros virginiana, notice of, 363. 

Petersburg, tricks performed on culinary vege- 
tables there, as related by Storch, 41. 

Petersen, Mr. J. P., on the Gardening of Den- 
mark, 344. 

Petit-Thouars, M. du, notice respecting works 
presented by him to the Paris Horticultural 
Socicty, and also his Chronological Biography 
of Gardeners, 448. 

Pettnéa nyctaginifldra, on the culture of, by 
Robt. Sweet, F.L.8., 297. - 

Phérmium bulbiferum, culture of, in Sicily, 209. 

Pine-apple, culture of, by Mr. James Dall, 183 ; 
culture of, in Brazil, by Mr. Bevrich, 442 ; 
waved-leaved of Pom. Mag., 330; query re- 
specting, 120. 

Pine-apples, great number and large size of those 
cut at Shugborough, by W. M‘Murtrie, 352 ; 
notice of, 102 ; mode of keeping and increasing 
the flavour, 216. 

Pine, Scotch, query on, 378; notice respecting, 
from the Quarterly Review, 350. 

Pines and firs, collection of, query respecting, 
378 ; figures of various species in the Pinetum 
at Dropmore, 265. 

Pinetum at Dropmore, account of, 257. 

Pinks and carnations, Mr. Hogg’s show of, 115. 

Pinks, injury done to, by the caterpillars of cer- 
tain moths in the winter months, 456 ; lists of 
choice sorts,111.113 ; the best variety grown,456. 

Pinus laricio, 313. 

Pinus resinosa, and rigida, remarks on, 211. 

Pipes, earthen, query respecting, 374; answer, 
490. 

Pit, economical, for preserving vegetables during 
winter, by Mr. A. Stewart, 193. 

Pit for pines of W. Forman, Esq., figured and 
described, 171. ; y 
Plane, occidental, Pldtanus occidentalis, notice 

of, 363. 

Plantations of trees, on filling up the gaps of, by 
M. Bosse, 317. 

Planting by mudding in, 217. 

Planting, on preparing the soil for, from the 
Quarterly Review, 390. 

Plants, chemical relationship of, 218. 

Plants, culture of, in pots of Hypnum mosses, 
by Mr. John Street, C.M.H.S., 61. h 

Plants, effects, of frost on, in the winter of 
1822-3, by Prof. Link, 62. 

Plants, garden, medicinal qualities of, 382. 

Plants, law of nature as to the regeneration of 
shoots, 345; male and female, metamorphoses 
of, 90; natural law of succession exemplified 
in Australasia, 214 ; natural law of succession 
of in the same soil, 208; prices of, &c., 117; 
universal history of, proposed in preference to 
a new edition of Miller’s Dictionary, 340. 

Plough, excavation formed by, for a canal, 94," 

Plum, Coe’s golden drop, notice of, by T. Ri- 
vers, jun., Hertfordshire, 353; purple gage, 


502 


excellence of, 106; the diamond variety de- 
scribed, 215; the mims, of Pom. Mag., 3530; 
the Washington, of P. M., 460. 

Poinsot’s Ami des Jardiniers, 81. 

Polemdnium Richardsodné, 451. : 

Polyanthuses, notice of the four first-rate, culti- 
vated in Lancashire by M. S., 352. : 

Pomological Magazine, notice of, 89; reviewed, 
325, 459. : 

Pontey’s Profitable Planter, noticed, 460. 

Poplar, Athenian, as a timber tree, by John H. 
Moggridge, Esq., 410. 

Potatoe, a large one, 225 ; culture of, curl, worm, 
&c., by a Denbighshire gardener, 19; native 
country of, 97; query on a perennial one, 379. 

Potatoes, notice of some large ones, 351. 355; 
notice of two crops of, in one season, at Heath 
Hall, 355 ; on keeping through the winter and 
summer, by Mr. George Fulton, 405; on 
mixing the breeds of, query respecting, 381. 

Poterium Sanguisérba, or Burnet, notice of, 352. 

Powis, Earl of, his mode of heating by hot-water, 
375. i 

Premiums, on the distribution of, by a complain- 

-ing gardener, 360. 

Primula sinénsis, query, 119. ee 

Prince, Mr. Wm, letter from, on his Linnean 
Garden, 210; notice respecting his present to 
the Conductor, 348. : ; 

Pringle, Mr. James, on Gloridsa supérba, 140. 

Prunéila, or selfzheal, notice of, as a;weed, 331. 

Prussian Gardening Society, reports on their 
School of Gardeners, 92; Transactions of, 
reviewed, Vol. I. Part. I1., 62. 317. 439. 

Prussia, taste for gardening in, 93. 

Pyrus Bolwilleriana, notice of, 231. 

Rain-gauge, the kind of, recommended by the 
Hort. Soc., 177. 3 

Raninculus acris, deleterious effects of, 103. 

Ranunculuses, on raising seedlings, by Mr. John 
Waterston, 310. } s 

Raspberries, culture of, in autumn, by Mr. 
John Mearns, 174; the Barnet, of P. M., 330. 

Reading from public libraries, hint on, 116. 


Read’s fumigating apparatus, notice of, and } aK 
| Scotch pine, query on, 378. 


figure, 229. 

Red spider, and damp, on melons, remedy for, 

218 ; to destroy, in hot-houses, by Mr. David 
f Cameron, A.L.S., 277. 

Reden, Countess of, notice of her present to the 

. Horticultural Society of Berlin, 318. 

Reed, Mr. James, mode of procuring a crop 
during winter, 23. 

Reeve, Mr. James, rapid and successful mode of 
grafting the orange, 26 ; remarks on his mode 
of propagating the citrus tribe, 273. 

Reichenbach’s Taschenbuch fiir Gartenfreunde, 
noticed, 203. t 

Reinagle, R. R., Esq., R. A., his theory of the 
beauty of lines and forms, 247. _ ; 

Retrocoupling bee-boxes, description of Dyer’s, 
by Mr. C. Hale Jessop, 414. 

Revolving frame, notice of, by Mr. R. Gauen, 

~ and of another, by Mr. Alexander Visset, 170. 

Rheum, different species of, query respecting, 
121; virtues of, 73. 

Rhéum palmatum, as tart rhubarb, 102. 

Rhododéndron pénticum, notice of sugar found 
Cian eueey secede! ercelor sa? 

Rhubar' uck’s Scarlet, i 2 

Rhubarb, on forcing, by Mr. W. Stothard, 184, 

Rhubarb stalks, various uses of, by Mr. James 
Luckock, 280. 

Richardson, Dr., of Bradford, biography of, 127. 

Ricinus communis, or castor-oil plant, 457. 

Ringing the bark of trees, note on a German 
instrument for, 65. 


Robertson, Mr. John, F.H.S., on planting the | 


_ banks of rivers with fruit trees, 178. 

Robinia Pseid-acacia, or locust tree, remarks 
on, by T. Blaikie, Esq. C.M.H.S, &c., 308. 

Rollison’s nursery, Tooting, call at, S62. 

Rook’s nest, 189. : 

Rosa Banksia, query respecting, 381. 


INDEX. 


Rose, double yellow, on bursting, 576, 377. 

Rose, new climbing variety, 104. 

Rose, supposed influence of the onion on, 208. ° 

Rose, yellow, query respecting, 119. 

Roses, notice of some specimens of late flowering 
sorts, 353, 

Rosenburgh, in Denmark, gardens of, 344. 

ibus Chamzmorus, notice respecting, 376. 

Sabine, Joseph, Esq., F.R.S. L.S. &c., Sec. Hort. 
Soc., on hedges of hollies and holly trees, 184. 

Sageret’s Cucurbitacées, noticed, 82. 

Sagra on the Botany of the Island of Cuba, no- 
ticed, 340. 

Salading, winter, query respecting, 379. 

Salt and the vegetable marrow, notice respect- 
ing, 470. 

Salt, as a manure, &c., 151. 

Salt, on the use of, in agriculture, by Agricola, 
155; note on the subject, with reference to 
Agronome, 400, 

Salt, use of, in the culture of the hyacinth, by 
Mr. Thomas Hogg, 154. 

Sap in plants, cause of its ascent, explained by 

1. Dutrochet, 78. 

Baler ite mode of preparing, in Germany, 
342. 

Saul, Mr. M., on an awning for a tulip bed, and 
the flower stage of the Lancaster Hort. Soc., 
418 ; on the merits of the Lancashire goose- 
berries, 121; on training and managing the 
gooseberry, 421. 

Saunders, Mr. Richard, on keeping ice in ice- 
houses, 404, 

Scaly insect, on destroying, by Mr. Wm. Beattie, 
C.M.H.S., 307. 

Scampston elm, query respecting, 382. 

Schabol, Koger, an eminent horticulturist of the 
18th century, 57. 

Schizanthus pinnatus, irritability of the sta- 
mina, 103. 

Schubert’s Catalogue of the Botanic Garden of 
Warsaw, reviewed, 338. 

Schultze, Mr., of Potsdam, ideas on forcing gar- 
dening, and especially on forcing cherries, 
433 ; on a movable forcing-house, 443. 


Scott, Mr. William, obituary of, 256. 

Sea weed, use of, for stuffing cushions, 94. ~ 

Seeds, notice of some, received from the Straits 
of Magellan, 252. 

Seeds, notice on packing and preserving, 381. 

Seeds, vital principle of, exemplified, 218. 

Seitz, Mr. E., of Munich, on the Moringa pér- 
sica, 438. 

Serpentine rivers, their invention, 480. 

Sette’s Arrossiments, &c., noticed, 338. 

Sexes in plants, transformation of, 90. 

Seymour’s mode of training the peach tree, its 

ae apparent superiority over most others, 
ol. 5 

Sharp, Mr. Charles, on the American blight on 
fruit trees, 378. 

Shennan, Mr. W. J., on straw mats, &c., 167. 

pare notice of one supplying wholesome water, 
395. 

Shrubs, addition to those capable of resisting the 
effects of the atmosphere of London, by W. 
Green, jun., Stepney, 374. 

Shugborough, notice of the pine apples there, 

IL. 

Silk tree, Acacia Julibréssin, notice of a large 
specimen, 217. 

Silk treejin Persia, 99 ; in Bristol nursery, 99. 

Sinapis, and other mustard plants, medical vir- 
tues of, 323. 

Slater, Gilbert, Esq., biography of, 128, 


‘Slugs, query respecting, 379. 


Smith, Mr. James, on mulching and watering ~ 
fruit tree borders, 511. 
Smith, Mr. John, on the French method of cul- 
tivating the peach tree, 56. 
pot Mr. W., on the different sorts of Dahlias, 
79. 
Smut in grain, accounted for, 74. 


INDEX. 


Smut in wheat, cause of, and cure for, 331. 

Snails, destruction of, in France, 464. 

Soap, from potatoes, 478. 

Soils of different kinds, on their application to 
plants, by M. Bosse, of Oldenburg, 437. 

Solanum Dulcamara, virtues of, 72. 

Solar heat, plan for operating with, by Mr. 
Gauen, 102. 

Sophora japénica, notice of its introduction to 
France, 207. 

Sorgenfirie in Denmark, gardening of, 344. 

Soulange-Bodin, le Chevalier, notice of his Hor- 
ticultural fete, 443; his Regenerations des 
Forets, reviewed, 203. 

South America, desiderata from, 98. 

Speechley, William, biography of, 383. 

Spilanthes oleraceus, found hardy in the Paris 
garden, 208. 

Spinach plants of India, culture of, 214. 

Spruce beer, how to prepare, 478. 

Squib, Mr., his opinion of the hot water system 
of heating, 189. 

Squilla aqua dilcis, query respecting, by Mr. C. 

-_ Hale Jessop, Cheltenham, 382. 

Steam for hot-houses, query respecting, 118. 

Steele, Andrew, Esq., on the trees which will, 
and will not, grow on peat mosses, 255. 

Sterling, Mr. Samnel, obituary of, 256. 

Steuart’s Planter’s Guide noticed, 460. 

Stewart, Mr. A., on an economical pit, 193. 

Stock, night-flowering, notice respecting, 216. 

Stothard, Mr. William, on forcing rhubarb, 184. 

St. Ann’s Hill, call at, 124. 

Straits of Magellan, seeds received from, 352. 

Strawberries, culture of, at East Love, in Corn- 
wall, 173. 

Strawberry, large, 105; the Grove End scarlet 

. of P, M., 230; the sweet cone of P. M., 330. 

Straw mats for covering hot-houses, on the con- 
struction and use of, by Mr. William Johnston 
Shennan, 167. 

Street, Mr. John, C.M.H.S., on acclimatising 
plants, 48 ; on cultivating plants in hypnum 
mosses, 61. 

pice a nux vomica, medical properties of, 
457. 

Sugar plants of Ceylon, 213. 

Sugar, probability of its being obtained from 
Héleus Sorghum, 212. 

Sunbury forcing-garden, call at, 125. 

Sundridge park, 189. 

Sun’s rays, on heating water by the concentra- 
tion of, 367. 

Sutherland, Mr. R., on blight and fire-blast, 278. 

Swainson, W., Esq., F.R.S. LS. &c., on the 
cockchaffer, 295. 

‘Sweet, Robert, F.L.S., on the culture of Petinza 
nyctaginiftdra, 297. 

Sweet’s British Flower-Garden, reviewed, July 
and August, 71; September, 198; October, 
199; November and December, 322; January 
and February, 455. 

Sweet’s Cistinez, reviewed, July, 72; Septem- 
ber, 199; November, 322; January, 456. 

Sweet’s Flora Australasica, reviewed, July, 70; 
August, 71; September, 198; October, 198; 
November, 321; December, 321; January 
and February, 454. 

Sweet’s Florist’s Guide, reviewed, July and 
August, 74; September and October, 199; 
November and December, 322; January and 
February, 456. 

Sweet’s Geraniacez, reviewed, July and Au- 
gust, 71; September and October, 198; No- 
vember and December, 321; January and Fe- 
bruary, 455. 

Syntherisma, a new grass from Carolina, 90. 

System der Garten-Nelke, noticed, 206. 

Tally for naming plants, description of one, by 
Mr. Stewart Murray, 28. 

Tally-peg for plants, economical kind, 298, 

Tasmania, see Van Dieman’s Land, 462. 

Tea, and balm-tea, 478. 

Telfairza pedata, notice of, 66. 


503 


Hepaebnia expansa, ‘culture of, by M. Otto; 


Tetragdnia expansa, found to be hardy at Yar- 
mouth, 217. 

Thaer’s Eclaircissement, &c., notice of, 337. 

Thames tunnel, notice respecting, 467. 

Thermometer, recommended by the H..S., 177. 

Thistle, enormous specimen of, 103. 

Thomson, Dr. A. T., his opinion as to the use 
of the pith of plants, 79- i 

Thomson, Mr., of Sundridge Park gardens, his 
opinion of hot-water system of heating, 190.4 

Thomson, Mr. Thomas, on scraping the bark 
of fruit trees, 309. . 

Thouin’s Cours de Culture des Végétaux, &c. 
notice of, by C. Baily, 447. 

Tilleul argenté de Constantinople, 313. 

Timber trees, law of succession in, 351; on cul- 
tivating, conjointly with farm produce, by W. 
M., Argyleshire, 412 ; on. planting, by C. F. 
W., of Fazeley, Staffordshire, 409; on the 
cultivation and management of, by Quercus, 
284; to remove ivy from, in an effectual man- 
ner, 350. 

Tobacco, culture of, in Holland, 84. 

Tormentilla erécta, virtues of, 73. 

Townsend, Mr. William, on the culture of the 

* orache, 178. 

Toxteth Botanical and Horticultural Library, 
notice of, 115. 

Traill, Mr. James, culture of the different species 
of hdéyas, 47. 

Tredgold, ‘Thomas, Esq., on heating hct-houses 
by hot water, 427. 

Tree, query on one producing water, 382. 

Tree seeds and grafts, Cobbett’s manner of im- 
porting, 364. 

Trees, single, in parks, on guarding from cattle, 
254. 


Trees, that will, and will not, grow on peat 
mosses, letter on, by A. Steele, Esq., 255. 

Truffles, hints for culture, by Mr. Boyce, 102. 

Tulip bed, description of an awning for, by Mr. 
M. Saul, 418. 

Tulips, notice and query on breaking, 3805 
remarks on Mr. Hogg’s ideas on breaking, by 
Mr. Sweet, 74; by Mr. Hogg himself, 113. 

Tulip tree, Liriodéndron ¢wlipifera, notice 
365. 

Turner, Mr. R., on destroying the A‘phis Jan{- 
gera, 30. 

Turnip, a large one, 218; notice of a large 
Swedish one, 351. 

Turnips, success of transplanting, 118; to pre- 
pare bread from, 478. 

Turnip cabbage, mode of preserving and prepar-.. 
ing through the winter in Germany, 344, 

Turnip fly, or flea, query, 121. 

Tussilago Farfara,’ virtues of, 72. 

Tweedie, Mr. John, on an improved method of 
ventilating hot-houses, 305. 

Tynningham, holly hedges at, 184. 

Van Dieman’s Land, horticulture of, 463. 

Vauxhall nursery, call at, 126. 

Vegetable life, to restore, 94. 4 

Vegetable marrow, notice respecting, 470. 

Vegetable Physiology, important discoveries in, 
by M. Dutrochet, 78. : 

Vegetable Physiology, treatise on, attributed to 

+ Professor A. T. Thomson, recommended, 462. 

Verhandlungen des Vereins, &c., reviewed, 317. 
433, 

Vibert, on the cockchaffer, reviewed, 334, 

Villa near Tooting, call at a small one, 362. 

Vine, a superior mode of raising, by layers, by 
Mr. William Green, 24; method of cultivating 
im the open air, in the vineyard manner, 145 ; 
notice of a prolific one at Elgin, 354. 

Vines in the open air, query respecting, by Mr. 
W. Green, Stepney, 379; Mr. Shepherd’s. 
mode of forcing, 125; query on some at the 
Earl of Sefton’s, Stoke, 382 ; query respecting 
Mr. Oldaker’s, 379; trial of, trained on hang- 
ing trellises, by Mr. James Barnet, 407. 


of, 


504 


Vinery for the earliest and latest grapes, design 
for, by Mr. A. Middleton, 17. 

Vineyard, plan for forming in England, 145. 

Viola odorata, virtues of, 73. 

Virginian swallow-wort, query respecting, 376. 

Virginia Water, call at, 124, 

Universal history of plants, notice of, 340. 

Voght's Landwirthschaftlicher Schriften, notice 
of, 337. 

Upper Canada, notice of the hardy fruits of, by 
Mr. Thomas Blair, 313. 

Wahlenberg Flora Suecica, 86. 

Walcot, W., Esq., on wicker protectors for ten- 
der trees and shrubs, 173. 

Wallace, Mr. John, the representative of a very 
ancient family of serving gardeners, 227. 

Wallich, Dr., of Calcutta, 100. 

Wall, for transmitting heat, notice of a patent 
for, 471; Silverlock’s, applied to hot-houses 
and cottages, 123. 

Walls, garden, on painting black, by Mr. John 
Henderson, 315. 

Walnut, black, Jiglans nigra, notice of, 363. 

Walnuts and mulberries, rapid production of,353. 

Walter's Gartenbuch, noticed, 337. 

Warwick, horticultural garden at, account of, 
359. 

Water, on heating, by pipes from a kitchen fire, 
367. 


v0/. 
Water, supply of, to London, notice respecting, 
4 


Waterston, Mr. John, on raising seedling ranun- 
culuses, 310. 

Waterton’s nursery, call at, 124. 

Watkins’s “© Art of Growing the Cucumber and 
Melon,’’ reviewed, 332. 


INDEX. 


Webster, James, Esq., on preserving currants on 
the tree, 176. 

Weeds and leaves, query on rotting, 380. 

Wells, Mr., of Bickley, his opinion of the”hot- 
water system ofheating, 189; query to, 375; 
answer by, 490. 

Whale, Mr. W., on heating stoves by means of 
hot water, 186. 

Wheat, a singularly prolific grain of, 225. 

Whip-grafting, the flute-grafting of the French, 
90 


Whitmore Lodge, perfect order of, 247. 

Wicker protectors for tender trees and shrubs, 
by W. Walcot, Esq., 173. 

Wilson, Joseph, Esq., call at his villa on Clap- 
ham Common, 361. 

Wine, method of making, at Elvas, in Portugal, 
465. 

Wines, ancient mode of flavouring, in France, 

08. 


Wines, home-made, report of the committee of 
the C. H.S. on, 219. 

Wire worms and grubs, query respecting, 381. 

Withers’s Profit and Loss View of planting one 
acre on the Scotch and English system, re- 
viewed, 202. 

Woodlice, query on destroying, 381. 

Wood, Mr., of Deepdene Gardens, his opinion 
of the hot water system of heating, 192. 

Worms and other insects, composition used for 
destroying, in the Gardens of Carlsruhe, 204. 

Yorkshire Horticultural Society. See Hort. Soc. 
of Yorkshire. 

Young, Mr. James, on ice and icehouses, 138. 

Yucca gloridsa and filamentdsa, 105. 

Zoological Garden, notice respecting, 469. 


KALENDARIAL INDEX. 


January. — Force Grapes for an early crop, 43 ; 


force Cherries, 64; pot Gloridsa supérba, 140; | 


place Gloxinéa maculata on the dry shelves of 

_\ stove, 141; sow lemon seeds for stocks for 
oranges, 273; graft ditto on one year old 
stocks, 273. 

February.—Inarch Fruit Trees, 68 ; force Cher- 
ries, 64. 

March. — Exclude air from fruit room, 10; be- 
gin forcing Grapes for a late crop, 43; inarch 
fruit trees, 68; force Cherries, 64; sow To- 


bacco on a slight hot-bed, 85; pot Gloxinia | 


maculata, 141; graft Peach and Nectarine 
trees, 149; sow Orache, 178; pot or sow Dah- 
lias, 180; sow Melons, intended to be fruited 


in the open borders, 182; shift Pine suckers, | 


183; scrape off the old scabrous bark of trees, 
309; sow seeds of Raninculus, 310; sow seeds 
of Dahlia, 239. ; 

April. — Sow Cardoons, 47 ; graft Camellias, 56 ; 
inarch fruit trees, 63; graft ditto, 63; sow 
seeds of Amaryllis vittata in boxes, 301; prick 
out Dahlias into a nursery bed, 439. 

May. — Fruit, such as Apples in fruit room, not 
to be handled after this time, till used, 10; 
prepare to lay Vines, 24; graft Orange trees, 
26; graft Fruit trees, 64; transplant Tobacco, 


85; remove young fruit-bearing shoots of 

Raspberries, 174 ; ridge out Melons, 182 ; select 

for potting the best suckers of Chrysanthemum 

indicum, 291 ; plant out seedling Dahlias, 439. 

dune. — Bud Fruit trees, 64; pot Pine suckers, 
Da ~ g 

| July. — Bud Fruit trees, 64; cover small Fruits 
with bunting, 176; shift Pine suckers, 183. 

August. — Bud Peach and Nectarine trees, 149; 
prepare hot-beds for Kidneybeans, 339. 

| September. — Force grapes for a spring crop, 

44; graft Camellias, 56; remove the young 

plants of Chrysanthemum indicum into the 

house, 291; graft Pxdnia mortan cuttings on 
| the tubers of P. officinalis, 293; pot early 

Cauliflower plants, 302; prepare old hot-beds 

for winter lettuce, 358. 

| October. — Blanch Cardoon, 47; graft Camel- 
lias, 56; cover Strawberry beds with mould 
from the alleys, 173; shift Pine suckers, 183; 
turn out seedling plants of Petunza nyctagini- 
flora on warm borders, 297. 

November. — Prune apple trees on walls, 1; sow 
Carrots, Radishes, small Salading, on old or 
new hot-beds, 390. 

Debonair: — Force Cherries, 64; fill Ice-houses 


END OF THE THIRD VOLUME. 


Lonpon: 


Printed by A. & R. Spottiswoode, 
New-Street-Square. 


T 
. 
7 


sie 


ION LIBRARIES 


wi 


