THE 


GARDENERS MAGAZINE, 


CONDUCTED 


By J.C. LOUDON, F.L.S. H.S. &c. 


AUTHOR OF THE ENCYCLOPEDIAS OF GARDENING AND OF AGRICULTURE, AND 
EDITOR OF THE ENCYCLOP&DIA OF PLANTS. 


LONDON: 


PRINTED FOR 
LONGMAN, REES, ORME, BROWN, AND GREEN, 


PATERNOSTER-ROW. 


1826. 


Lonnon : 


Printed by A. & R. Spottiswouvae, 
New Street-Square. 


PREFACE. 


Tue first volume of the Gardener's Magazine being completed, 
the purchasers of it will naturally, and very properly, compare its 
contents with the plan and promises held forth in the Prospectus. 
We invite them todo so. This may appear presumption or vanity : 
it would be so, were we not indebted to our contributors for having 
been enabled to carry into execution that plan and those promises. 
That our contributors are neither few nor unknown, that they are 
well qualified to be of essential service to the cause in which we 
are embarked, the list of them subjoined will amply testify. 

We had two grave objects in view ; — to disseminate new and im- 
portant information on all topics connected with horticulture, and 
to raise the intellect and the character of those engaged in this 
art. That these objects have been furthered even during the short 
period of this Magazine’s existence, we cannet doubt, when we 
consider the number of subjects treated of in original articles, the 
quantity of valuable matter condensed in the reviews, the great 
variety of miscellaneous intelligence, foreign and domestic, and 
even the implements, new fruits, addresses of garden artists and 
artisans, titles of books on gardening, and rural subjects, recorded 
in the advertising department. A number of the books from 
which information is drawn are in foreign languages ; and others, 
from their prices, out of the reach of most readers, and especially 
of those readers to whom their use would be the greatest. 

. As the object of the Gardener’s Magazine is the dissemination 
of useful knowledge; its subjects inexhaustible as the vegetable 
kingdom, and among the most interesting that concern domestic 
life ; its plan calculated to procure information from every pos- 
sible source at home or abroad ; its contributors belonging to every 
department of gardening and botany ; and its conductor devoted 
to the subject, from inclination no less than interest, its readers 
may reasonably expect it to improve as it advances. At all events, 
they may rely that no exertion will be wanting on the part of its 
conductor to render it of real service to gardening and gardeners, 
and worthy a continuation of that encouragement which it has 
received. 

J.C. L. 


Bayswater, London, Sept. 1826, 


LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS TO VOL, I. 


Page 
A Common Sense reforming Gardener, - 1 
A Constant Reader, - - - 378 
A Correspondent, 2 ; - 162 
A Fellow of the Horticultural Society, - 146 
A Friend to Discussion, - - - 395 
Facts, - - - 393 
Agardh, Professor, of Lund, Sweden, - 446 
A Middle-aged Gardener, = S aH 
mateur. - - - s 
ao ’ of See eae % : - 453 
derson, Mr. John, F.H.S., Gardener 
ans the Earl of Essex, at Cashiobury, 353 
,. Mr. William, F.L.S. H.S. Cu- 
rator of the Botanic Garden, Chelsea, 384 
Anonymous Contributor, 2 - 105 
Archibald, Mr. Joseph, C.M.H.S. of Dal- 
housie Castle, N.B., 251 


Baines, E. M., Esq., Surgeon, Hendon, a Bie 
Balfour, Mr. William, Gardener, Howick, 274 
Bishop, Mr. David, New Scone, Perthsh. 126 
Bowie, Mr. James, Botanical Collector at 

the Cape, - - 363. 473 
Braddick, John, Esq. F.H.S. of Boughton 

Mount, Kent, 33, 144. 249 
Buchan, Mr. William, F.H.S., Gardener 

to Lord Bagot, Blithfield, near Litch- ae 

field. - - = S = 
Burges, Mr. James, Coffleet, Devonshire, 389 
Burnard, J:P. Esq., Eden Grove, Holloway 141 
C. of Rouen, 445 


Collyns, William, Esq. Kenton, Devon., 401 
D. B. - - - - - 454 
Dingwall, Miss Ann, - 153 


Donald, Mr. R., of Woking Nursery, 268. 467 
Duff, Mr., C.M.H.S., Eton Hall, 128, 151 
- Dunbar, Professor George, F.R.S.E., &c. 
Rose Park, Edinburgh, SiS 
Dutton, Hely, Esq., Landscape Gardener, 
Mount Bellew, Castle Blakeney, Ireland, 358 
Felton, T. Esq. = 469 
Forbes, Mr., Gardener to His Grace the 
Duke of Bedford, at Woburn Abbey, 
Fraser, Mr. J., Dartfield, Loughrea,- 26. 261 


Fulton; Mr. George, Gardener to Lord 
Northwick, Northwick Park, near More- 


ton-in-the- Marsh, Gloucestershire, - 399 
G. D. - - - S - 468 
G. P. - - - - 466 
G. R. Gardener, Champion Hill, Surrey, 278 
G. R. G. - - - - 410 
G.S. - - 358 


Gordon, James, Esq. Forcett, near Ho- 
bart’s Town, Van Diemen’s Land, 
Gorrie, Mr. Archibald, C.H.S. of Annat 
Garden, Perthshire, - 44 
Gray, Mr. Henry, Gardener, Camberwell, 150 
Greig, John, Esq. Upper Paradise House, 
Islington, - - > = 73 
Grierson, William, Esq. Secretary to the 
Dumfries and Galloway Horticultural 
Society, Dumfries, - 217. 
Hall, William, Esq. of Wanbro, Edward’s 
County, Illinois, - = - 327 
Hamilton, William, Esq. M.D., Fareham 
Place, near Pfymouth, 5 
Hirst, Mr, William, Gardener to Joseph 
Batho, Esq. Cheshunt, Herts. - = 
Hosack, David, M.D. F.R.S. LS. HS. 
&c. Professor of Medicine in the Uni- 
versity of the State of New York, and 


207 


5 


465 


President of the New York Hort. Soc. 205 
Huddlestone, T. C. Esq. FHS. - 388, 470 
Ingram, Mr. T., Frogmore, - - 451 
J.D.C.S. - = - - 470 
J. H. L, Esq., - < - - 453 
Ignoramus, Suburbs of York, - - 470 
J. L. of Warsaw, - - 326 


Johnston, Mr. Andrew, Journeyman Gar- 
dener, Shugborough ‘Gard., Staffordsh., 407 

Kitaiewski, Professor W. P. A. M., War- 

saw, 3.75 


Page 
Knight, Mr. Joseph, F.H.S., Nurseryman 
King’s Road, - - - 
Lachlan, Robert, Esq. London, 
La Gasca, Professor Don Mariano, of th 
University of Madrid, - - = 
Lindsay, Mr., Gardener to His Grace the 
Duke of Devonshire, at Chiswick, 89 
Loddiges’, Messrs., of Hackney Garden, 136 
Loudon, Mr. James, Gardener, Ham 
House, Essex, 
Lucombe, Pince, and 


Co., Nurserymen, 


Exeter, 2 5 -— - 453 
M‘Arthur, Mr. Peter, F.H.S., Grange, 

Hampshire, - - = 105 
MacIntosh, Mr. Charles, Stratton Park, 

Hampshire, ie = - 139 
MacLaurin, Mr, Thomas, Gardener, Bun- 

ny Park, Nottinghamshire, = - 390 


MacNaughton, Mr. Archibald, Hackney, 24 
Masters, Mr. T. H., F.H.S.,:Nurseryman, 


Stoke Newington, - - - 153 
Mentor, - - -- - 412 
Moore, Mr. William, Gardener at East 

Ham, Surrey, = - 152 


Morris, Richard, Esq., F.L.S. of London, 116 
Neill, Patrick, Esq., F.L.S. C.M.H.S., Se- 
cretary to the Caledonian Horticultural 
Society, Edinburgh, 337 
Oldacre, Mr. I., of Spring Grove, F.H.S. 36. 278 
Penny, Mr. George, Foreman of the Her- 
baceous Department, Tooting Nursery, 465 
Petersen, Mr. Jens, of Copenhagen, now 


in England, = - 269 
Philalethes, 5 = 25 5 ol 
R A. M. - - - - 472 
R. P. Esq., Louth, - = - 233 
B.S. - - “ - 472 
R. W. of London, - - 405 


Reeve, Mr.James, Gardener to G.F. Evans, 
Esq., and Lady Carberry, at Laxton 
Hall, OEE UAE I - 402 

Rollison, Mess., Nurserymen, Tooting, 88. 366 

Rusticus, of Kent, - c 158 

S. L., near Worcester, - 464 

Salisbury, R. A., Esq., F.R.S. L.S. H.S., 
&e. - - - - 43, 122 

Saul, Mr. Matthias, of Lancaster, 152, 211. 267 

: 347. 431, 451 

Saunders, Mr. B., Nurseryman, Island of 

_ Jersey, - 2 = 187 

Saunders, Mr.H., Gardener, Kitley, Devon. 265 

Sensitiva, - - - - 463 

Seymour, Mr. William, Gardener, Wed- 


dington, ~ 5 - - - 12 
Shennan, Mr. William Johnston, Gar- 
dener to Major Morrison, Gunners- 
bury House, Middlesex, = - 398 
Simson, Mr. James, Gardener, Mussel- 
burgh, N.B. - 2 : 
Sinclair, Mr. George, F.L.S. H.S., Nur- =o 
seryman, New Cross Nursery, - 26.112 
Stevenson, William, Esq., of Beaufort 
Row, Chelsea, - aoe 101 
Stock, Daniel, Esq., Bungay, Suffolk, - 358 
Sweet, Mr. Robert, F.L.S., of Chelsea, - 31 
T. A. of Petersburgh, - - 447 
Thompson, Mr. J. Jun., Gardener, Wel- 
beck Gardens, 5 4 - 466 
Thomson, Anthony Todd, Esq., M. D. 
F.LS. H.S. &c. = - - 20. 396 
Thomson, Mr. John, Land Surveyor, 
London, = - -. 16. 118. 280 
Tredgold, T., Esq., Engineer, of London,- 37 
Verus, of Berwickshire, 2 - 259 
W. B. of Stirlingshire, - - 453 
W.R. G., West Riding, Yorkshire, - 471 


Willis,“ Mr. Richard, Gardener to John 
Harris, Esq. Radford, Plymstock, Devon. 471 

Willmot, Mr. John, F.H.S., Nurseryman, 
Lewisham, 

Wilmot, Mr. 


od 


John, F.H.S., Isleworth 386 


CONTENTS. 


INTRODUCTION - 


Parr I. 


On the present State of Gardening in Ireland, 

- with Hints for its future Improvement. By 
Mr. James Fraser, Gardener, Author of a 
Letter to the President and Vice President of 
the Horticultural Society of Ireland 


Page 10. 261 
Upon the Method of setting the Fruit of the 
Granadilla. By an Amateur - 15 


co} 

Remarks on the Effect of the Lombardy Poplar 
in Park Scenery. By Mr. John Thompson, 
Land Surveyor and Pictorial Draughtsman 16 
Observations on an Hypothesis concerning the 
Effects of Green Vegetable Manure. By An- 
thony Todd Thomson, M.D. F.L.S. &c. Au- 
thor of Lectures on Botany - - 20 
On the Life of a Jobbing Gardener. By Mr. 
Archibald M‘Naughton, New Ground Work- 
‘man, Hackney = - - — = 24 
On cultivating a Collection of Grasses in Plea- 


sure Grounds or Flower Gardens. By Mr. 
George Sinclair, F.L.S. H,S. &c. Author of 
Hortus Gramineus Woburnensis 26. 112 


Of the best Mode of washing Water Cresse3 and 
other Salads, so as to free them from the 
Larvez of Insectsand Worms. By Mr. James 
Simson, Gardener, Musselburgh, near Edin- 
burgh - - - - = 29 

On the Cultivation of Hothouse bulbous-rooted 
Plants. By Mr. Robert Sweet, F.L.S., Au- 
thor of the Botanical Cultivator, Cistinez, 
and other Works = = = Gil 

Historical Notice of the Present de Malines 
Pear. By John Braddick, Esq. F.H.S. of 
Boughton Mount, Kent - - 33 

On the Cultivation of the Grape known as 
West’s St. Peter, as practised at Spring Grove. 
By Mr. Isaac Oldacre, F.H.S., Gardener to 

‘the Emperor of Russia - - - 36 

On the Relations of Heat, Moisture, and Eva- 
poration, in natural and artificial Atmo- 
spheres. By Thomas Tredgold, Esq. Civil 
Engineer - - - - 37 

‘On the Cultivation of Vines in the open Air in 
Great Britain. By R. A. Salisbury, Esq. 
F.R.S. L.S. HS. &c. - -- - 43 

On the Culture of the Huntingdon Willow, Salix 
alba, as a Timber Tree. By Mr. Arch. Gor- 
rie, C.H.S. &c. of Annat Garden, Perth- 
shire - - - - - 4 

On the Benefits to be derived by the Country 
Labouxer from a Garden, and the Means of 
teaching him how to acquire those Benefits. 
By William Stevenson, Esq. Author of the 
Agricultural Surveys of Surrey and Dorset- 
shire, &c. - - - - - 101 

Some Account of a Conservatory lately erected 
at the Grange, the Seat of Alexander Baring, 
Esq. M.P. Hampshire. By Mr. Peter M‘Ar- 
thur, F.H.S. Gardener there, with a prelimi- 
nary Notice respecting the Architecture of 
the Mansion, by an anon. Contributor 105 

Remarks on Mr. Thompson’s Observations. on 
the Effect of the Lombardy Poplar in Park 
Scenery. By Richard Morris, Esq. F.L.S., 
Surveyor and Landscape Gardener - 116 

Remarks on the Effects of the Cedar of Lebanon 
in Landscape. By John Thompson, Esq. 
Pictorial Draughtsman, and Student of Land- 
scape Gardening ae c 2 - 118 

On forcing Roses. By R. A. Salisbury, Esq. 

8. &C. - Ss ee 1 


- - Page 1. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


History, Description, and Mode of Treatment 
of Bishop’s Early Dwarf Pea. By Mr. David 
Bishop - - - - Page 126 

On a new Mode of training the Peach-tree, in 
vented by Mr. J. Seymour, and communicated 
by Mr. William Seymour, Gardener at Wed 
dington, and Mr. Duff, Gardener to the Earl 
of Grosvenor, at Eton Hall - - 128 

A Catalogue of Erice, in the Collection of 
George Dunbar, Esq. F.R.S.E. &c. Professor 
of Greek in the University of Edinburgh. 
Communicated by the Professor <= $31 

On the evil Effects of a Head Gardener being 
lodged any where else than in his Garden. 
By a Common Sense reforming Gardener 135 

Catalogue of the different Species of Palm culti- 
vated in the Stoves of the Hackney Garden. 
Communicated by Messrs. Loddiges - 136 

On a new Verge Cutter and Orange Tub, in- 
vented by Mr. Charles Mac Intosh, Gardener 
to Sir Thomas Baring, Bart., and also on a 
new Mode of preserving Cauliflowers by the 
same, in a Letter to Mr. Mackay, of the Bel- 
grave and Clapton Nurseries - - 139 

On the Remuneration of Gardeners. By P. 
Bumard, Esq. of Eden Grove, Holloway 141 

On the Beurré Spence and other new Pears, and 
on the Art of keeping Fruit. By W. Brad- 
dick, Esq. F.H.S. of Boughton Mt. Kent 144 

Remarks on the Constitution and Adminis- 
tration of the London Horticultural Society. 
By a Fellow of the Society - - 146 

On the Cultivation of Gourds and Pompions. 
By Mr Henry Gray, Gardener, Camberwell. 
Dated December 12, 1825 - - 150 

On the Cultivation of the English and Ame- 
rican Cranberry, and the Water Cress, at 
Bretton Hall. By Mr. Christie Duff, late 
Gardener there. Dated December 20. 1825. 151 

On the Management of newly imported Orange 
and Lemon Trees, By Mr. William Moore, 
Gardener at East Ham, Surrey. Dated Ja- 
nuary 25. - = - - - 152 

An Account of an Experiment, which serves 
to show that Hot-house Flues may draw 
very well without terminating in an up- 
right Shaft or Chimney. By Mr. Matthias 
Saul, of Lancaster, Inventor of Saul’s Fruit 
Gatherer (Encyc. of Gard. § 1347.) and other 
Machines. Dated February 7. CG) 3 1h 

On the Winter Management of Bees, by a 
Clergyman, in Morayshire. Communicated 
by Miss Ann Dingwall. Dated Feb.9. 153 

Historical Notice of Two Varieties of the 
Garden Pea. By Mr.T. H. Masters, Eden Nur- 
sery, Stoke Newington. Dated Feb.25. 153 

On the Cultivation of Pear Trees for Perry, 
By Rusticus, of Kent. Dated February 25. 

153 

Remarkable Specimens of Poeonia Papaveracea, 
Madras Citron, and Magnolia Conspicua, in 
the Gardens of Wormleybury, in Hertford- 
shire. Communicated by Sir AbrahamHume, 
Bart. F.R.S. H.S. &c. the Proprietor. Dated 
March 18. Bi ahggeps. anc - ~ 154 

Sketches of the Botanical, Horticultural, and 
Agricultural Circumstances of Spain. By Don 
Mariano La Gasca, Professor of Botany in the 
University of Madrid = - - 235 

Notices of Three New Keeping Pears. By John 
Braddick, Esq. F.H.S. - . > 249 


vi 


Dalhousie Castle and Gardens; the Botany of 
the Neighbourhood, and various Remarks. 
By Mr. Joseph Archibald, C.M.E.S., upwards 
of Nineteen Years Gardener there Page 251 

On Field Gardening, and on the Gardens of 
Farm Servants in Scotland. By Verus, of 
Berwickshire - - . = 259 

Some Account of the Kitley Shaddock. By 
Mr. H. Saunders, Gardener to E. P. Bastard, 
Esq. M. P., of Kitley, Devonshire ~ 265 

Description of anew Transplanting Instrument, 
for removing Plants when in Flower. In- 
vented by Mr. Matthias Saul, of Lancaster, 
and communicated by him - - 267 

On a Mode of keeping Apples through the 
Winter, as practised by Mr. Robert Donald, 
Nurseryman, Woking 5 c 

Some Account of the Gardens, and State of 
Gardening in Denmark. By Mr. Jens Peter- 
sen, of Copenhagen, now studying the Art 
and Practice of Gardening in England 

On an anomalous Appearance in some Species 
of Lilium. By E.M. Baines, Esq. Hendon 273 

Observations on Reverse Grafting. By Mr. 
William Balfour, Gardener to the Earl Grey, 
at Howick - - o - 274 

On improving the Gardens of Cottages, as prac- 
tised by the late Lord Cawdor, at Stackpole 
Court, in Pembrokeshire. Communicated by 
Mr. William Buchan, F.H.S., Gardener to 
Lord Bagot, at Blithfield, near Litchfield, 275 

On the Cultivation in the open Garden, and 
Treatment in the Forcing-house, of the Straw- 
berry, known as “ Wilmot’s Superb.” - By 
Wir. Isaac Oldacre, F.H.S., Gardener to the 
Emperor of Russia = - 278 

On the Importance of Regularity and sys- 
tematic Conduct in practical Gardeners. By 
G. R. Gardener, Champion Hill, Surrey 278 

Design for improving the Parks, by extending 
Kensington Gardens, and continuing the Ser- 
pentine River into the Green Park, &c. By 
John Thomson, Esq. Pictorial Draughtsman 
and Student of Landscape Gardening 280 

Hints for thebetter Cultivation of the Cape 
Heaths, derived from Observation of their 
Nature, Soils, and Situations. By Mr. James 
Bowie, Botanical Collector at the Cape _- 363 

List of Cape Heaths which have been in Flower 
in the Tooting Nursery in each Month of the 
Year. Communicated by Messrs. Roilison, 
Nurserymen, Tooting - © - 366 

On the present State of Gardening in Poland. 
By W. P. A. M. Kitaiewski, Professor of Che- 
mistry in the University of Warsaw - 375 

On a Disease which has attacked certain Elm 
Trees in Camberwell Grove, Surrey. By a 
Constant Reader - - - o 8) 

Remarks, including the Results of some 


Expe- 
riments, on budding the Peach and Nectarine 
on Almond Stocks. By Mr. William Ander- 
son, F.L.S. H.S. &c. Curator of the Botanic 
Garden, Chelsea - - - - 384 


Parr II. 


The Botanical Magazine, or Flower Garden 
displayed; in which the most ornamental 
foreign Plants cultivated in the open Ground, 
the Greenhouse and the Stove, are accurately 
represented in their natural Colours, &c, By 


Wm. Curtis. Continued by John Sims, M.D. 
F.R.S. &c. 1787 to 1826. 53 vols. 8vo. Lon- 
don = = - Page 47. 162 


The Botanical Register, consisting of co- 
loured Figures of exotic Plants, cultivated 
in British Gardens ; with their History and 
Mode of Treatment. The Designs by Syden- 
ham Edwards, F.L.S. _1815—1826. Vols. I. 
to XI. 8vo. Ridgway, London 47. 162 

The Botanical Cabinet, consisting of coloured 
Delineations of Plants from all Countries, 
with a short Account of each, Directions 


= 268 | 


269 | 


CONTENTS. 


On the Culture of the Cyclamen Persicum. By 
Mr. John Wilmot, F.H.S. Isleworth Page 386 
Some Account of an Attempt to arrest the 
| Ravages of the Aphis lanigera, or American 
Blight, on Fruit-trees. By T. C. Huddle- 
stone, Esq. F.H.S. =e - 388 
Recipe for composing a Liquid for effectually 
destroying Caterpillars, Ants, Worms, and 
other Insects. By Mr. James Burges, Gar- 
dener to the Rev. Richard Lane, of Coffleet, 
Devonshire’ - - - - 389 

| A simple, effectual, and expeditious Mode of 
destroying the Green Fly and other Insects. 
By Mr. Thomas M‘Laurin, Gardener, Bunny 
Park, Nottinghamshire = - 390 

| Remarks on the Affairs of the London 


Horti- 
cultural Society. By a Friend to Facts 9391 
| Observations on the Article of “‘A Fellow of the 
| Society,’ relative to the Conduct and Admi- 
nistration of the London Horticultural So- 
ciety. By a Friend to Discussion - 393 
Hints on the Superiority of the Rheum Palma- 
tum over the other Species of Rheum cul- 
tivated for Culinary Purposes. By An- 
thony T. Thompson, Esq. M.D. F.L.S. H.S. 
&e. - 2 - - - 396 
On the Treatment of Cactus speciosus specio- 
- sissimus, and other ornamental succulent 
Plants. By Mr. W. J. Shennan, Gardener to 
Major Morrison, at Gunnersbury Park - 398 
On the Use and Abuse of watering Vegetables 
in dry Seasons, and on the Advantages of 
Shade to Culinary Crops in Times of great 


Drought, By Mr. George Fulton, Gardener 
to Lord Northwick at Northwick Park, 
Gloucestershire = ° - - 399 


On _a Devonshire Practice in planting Vines, 
and on the Use of Salt as a Manure for Ara- 
ble Lands, and for renovating Grass Lawns. 
By William Collyns, Esq. Surgeon, Kenton, 
near Exeter - - - - 401 

On the Culture of Nerium oleander splendens. 
By Mr. James Reeve, Gardener to G. F. 
Evans, Esq. and Lady Carberry, at Laxton 
Hall, Wandsford, Northamptonshire, - 402 

On the Cultivation in England of the Carolina 
Wax Tree, with a View to its Produce in 
Wax. By William Hamilton, Esq. M.D. 403 

On the Culture of the early Potatoe, as prac- 
tised in Lancashire, and on the mode of cook- 
ing the Potatoe there. By R. W. - 405 

Description of a Pine Pit, to be heated by 
Steam, erected in Shugborough Gardens, 
Staffordshire. By Mr. Andrew Johnston, 
Journeyman Gardener there - - 407 

Remarks on the Treatment Under-Gardeners 
receive from their Masters. By G. R. G., 
Journeyman o 410 

Reasons for not subscribing towards the Form- 
ation or Support of the Garden of the Horti- 
cultural Society of London, with some 
Remarks on the Management of the Society 
generally. By Mentor - - 412 


REVIEWS. 


for Management, &c. &c. By Conrad Lod- 
diges and Sons. 1817 to 1826. 10 vols. 4to. 
and 8vo. London ~ - Page 47 
Exotic Flora, containing Figures and De- 
scriptions of new, rare, or otherwise interest- 
ing exotic Plants, especially of such as are de- 
serving of being cultivated in our Gardens, 


&c. By W. J. Hooker, LL.D. F.R.A. and 
L. S. &c. &c. 29 Parts, 8vo. 1823—1826. 2 
vols. Blackwood, Edinburgh = 47 


Geraniacee, or Natural Order of Geraniums. 
By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. 1820—1826. 6 vols. 
8vo. Ridgway, London - - 7b. 

The British Flower Garden. By Robert Sweet, 
F.L.S. 1822—1826. 2 vols. 8vo. Simpkin and 
Marshall, London - - - - ib. 


CONTENTS. Vii 


Cistinez., The Natural Order of Cistus or Rock | 


Rose. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. 3 Nos. 8vo. 
1825. Ridgway, London = - Page 48 
Flora Conspicua; a Selection of the most or- 
namental, flowering, hardy, exotic, and 
indigenous Trees, Shrubs, and herbaceous 
Plants, for embellishing Flower Gardens and 
Pleasure Grounds. By Richard Morris, F.L.S. 
Drawn and engraved from living Specimens, 
by Wm. Clark. 6 Nos %170. 1825. Smith, 
Elder, and Co. London - - 2b. 
The Botanic Garden ; or Magazine of hardy 
Flower Plants cultivated in Great Britain, 
each Number containing Feur coloured Fi- 
gures. By B. Maund. Nos. 1. to 7. Small 4to. 
London. ‘Baldwin, Cradock, and Joy - i. 
Transactions of the Horticultural Society of 
London. Vol. V. Bulmer and Co, 1824 
62. 165. 287. 431 
List of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Bo- 
tany, Domestic Economy, &c. published since 
January 1824; including New Editions and 
Translations - - - - 74 
Systematic Botany.— Caroli Linnzi Systema 


Curtio Sprengel. Vols. 1. & 2. Gottinga, 
1825, 8vo. - = - Page 155 
The Scottish Cry plos auc Flora. By Rofert 
K. Greville, LL.D. &c. Maclachlan and 


Stewart, Edinb. ; and Baldwin, Cradock, and 
Joy, Lond. 8vo. - - - 162 
Essay on the Beneficial Direction of Rural Ex- 
penditure, By Robert Slaney, Esq. London, 
12mo. - 175 


; Verhandlungen des Vereins zur Beforderung 


des Gartenbaues, &c.; Transactions of the 
Society for the Promotion of Gardening in 
Prussia. Berlin, 1824. Parts 1. & 2, 4to. 
eh 186. 308 
Récit d’une Excursion Horticulturale faite 
Londres, dans le mois d’ Avril, 1824. Par M. 
Soulange-Bodin, Membre de la Société Lin- 
néene de Paris, et de la Société d’Encourage- 
ment pour lIndustrie Nationale, &c. &c. 
(Extrait des Annales de 1’ Agriculture Fran- 
goise, 2de série, tome xxviii.) = - _189 
Catalogue raisonné of Books published in Bri- 
tain, France, Germany, Italy, Holland, Swe- 
den, America - = 74, 192. 312. 431 


_ Vegetabilium, editio decima sexta, curante ' Books preparing for Publication 5 443 
Part III. MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 

Foreign Notices, Scotland, - =. 90. 217. 387. 455, 
France, b - - 79. 198. 323, 444. Ireland, = > 94, 223, 339. 457. 
Germany, ~ - - - 81. 199. 324, 445.| Horticultural Society and ; 
Switzerland, — - - 82. 200. .325. Garden, - = - 87. 211. 340. 459. 
Italy, —- 2 = 82, 200. 325. | Linnean Society, - = 461. 
Holland and the Nether- aa - | Flower Shows, = - 346. 450. 

-lands, - 2 -- 83. 201. 325. 445. Covent-Garden Market, - 216, 348. 462. 
Sweden, 2 co 83. 204. 446. | Calls at the London Nurse- 

Denmark, = - 84, 203. 326. 446. ries and other suburban i 
Russia and Poland, - 84, 203, 326. 44:7. Gardens, - - 220, 349. 
Spain and Portugal, - 85. 204.| Architecture, c - 353. 
India, _ - - 85. | Domestic Economy - 353. 
China, - - : 85. 448.| Cottage Economy - 354. 
North America, - 86. 205. 326. 447.| Hints for Experiments, - 223. 355. 
South America, - 86. 206. 332. | Education of Gardeners, - 225. 355, 463. 
Asia, - - = 207. 332.| Queries and Answers, - 96. 229, 356. 469. 
Australasia, - 86. 207.| Answers to Queries, - 464. 

Domestic Notices. - | Biography, - - 2 = 95. 226. 
England, S - 87. 210. 333. 449.| Obituary, = - 95, 228. 360. 472 

Part IV. ADVERTISEMENTS CONNECTED WITH GARDENING AND 
RURAL AFFAIRS. 

Strawberry Plante, - 7 = 230. |Books by Mr. Maund, SUS = 97. 

Pince’s Golden Nectarine, : 473. Messrs. John and Arthur Arch, 474. 

South African Botany, - - 473. Mr. Carpenter, - s 97. 

Pictorial Plans, - - = PBL Ses Mr. Harding, - = 232. 474. 

Improved Vinery, - - 473. Messrs. Longman, Rees, and Co. 

Horticultural Syringe, S - 231, - 97. 99, 231. 233, 361. 474, 

Agricultural Implements, - 230. Mr. Ridgway, - 98. 362. 

A Horticulturist’s Villa - - 231. 5 Messrs. J. and C. Rivington, 100. 

Gardener wanted, - - 361. 473, ~ Messrs. Simpkin and Marshall 231. 

Gardeners wanting situations = 230— Messrs, Smith, Eder, and Co. 99, 


ENGRAVINGS IN VOL. I. 


No. Page 
TMPLEMENTS. 
98, MacIntosh’s verge-cutter, - - 139 
29, MacIntosh’s orange box, - - 140 
39. Improved garden hammer, - =) 213 
52. Saul’s transplanter, = - = 267 
53. French transplanter, - - 268 
62, Mr. Knight’s improved thrust- hoe, - 3s 
INSTRUMENTS. 

6. Hygrometer, - - 38 
88. Bark bed thermometer, - = 219 
48. Leaden tallies for plants, - 258 
85. Machine for regulating the temperature 

of hot-houses, - - 19 
UTENSILS. 
40. Punnet, - 216 
60. Ornamental flower-pots 5 of Mr. Willmot, 336 
84. Lime-duster, - é - 415 
STRUCTURES, 
8. Pine-pit heated by flues, - 71 
13. Section of the Conservatory at the 
Grange, 108 
21. Section of a house for forcing roses, ese) 
97. Plan of Professor Dunbar’s range of hot- 
houses, - - - 132 
36. Mr. Saul’s green- “house, - - 152 
82. Mearns’s cucumber pit, 170 
35. Conservatory and hot- houses of M. 
Caters de Wolf, near Antwerp, - 201 
47. Circular vinery of *General Ree 254 
58. Worm fence of America, - 231 
61. Mr, Stewart’s double espalier, - 340 
63. Mr. Groom's formidable fence, 350 
82. ae of a Pale pit to be heated by 
stea’ 
83. eranaas plan of a pine pit to be heated 
by steam ib. 

86, & 87. Plan ; and section of the conserv- 

04 


atory at Valleyfield, - 
88, 89, & 90. Sections of sash-bars and mode 

of glazing, to prevent the drip of 

water in hot- houses, 5 ~ 


EDIFICES. 
12. Plan of the Grange House, and the Ter- 


race Gardens, Hampshire, - - 107 
56, 57. Bridges for Hyde Park, - - 284 
OPERATIONS. 
9. Reverse training, ie, 
22. Placing pots of roses to prepare them 
for forcing, 1 
24, 25, 26. Seymour’s mode of training the 
each-tree, - - 130, 131 
33. Self-inarching, - 190 
34, Chinese mode of rooting branches, 198 
49. Moulds for casting leaden tallies, - 258 
51. Preparation of orange cuttings, - 266 
80. Lancashire practice with potatoe sets, 406 


No. , . ‘ Page 

81. peacacle Eos? in planting ts 
tatoe: 

91, 92: Section nue surface ‘plan. of a tulip 
bed, 451 


97, 98. Training “en quenouille, “or distaff 


fashion, > = s 
DIAGRAM. 
7. Illustrative of temperature, - 39 
PLANTS. 
Passion flower dissected, - - 16 
93. Three varieties of early pea, - - 126 
31. Magnolia conspicua, - - 154 
41. Primula sinensis, - = - 220 
64. Maclura aurantiaca, - - 356 
65. to 75. Heaths, 98 Species, - 867 to 373 
79.-Cyclamen Persicum, = - - 386 
93. Yucca gloriosa, - - - = 452 
94. Coreopsis tinctoria, - - - 453 
95. GEnanthe crocata, 454. 
96, Goodyera pubeyeens and Liparis lilii. 
~ folia, = 
99. Rosa multiflora and Grevillii, , - 468 
100. Achillea serrata and ageratum, - 470 
FRUITS. 
5. Present de Maline’s pear, - - 385 
43. Bishop’s orange strawberry, - 230 
Be Willmot’s superb strawberry, - 
5, Surpasse St. Germain, Grande Bretagne 
Dorée, and Prince de Printems 

pears - - = 250 

50, Kitley Shaddock, i E - 265 


PLANS OF GARDENS AND PARKS. 


14. Grass garden in the New Cross SETS * 115 
16. Gardens of Babylon, - 119 


46. Gardens of Dalhousie, Sas 
55, Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens, 281 
59. Garden of Mr. Hall at entre, on ie 
Tilinois, 5 S 
LANDSCAPES. 
1. to 4. Lombardy poplars in scenery, - 17 


11. View of the Grange House, Hampshire, 106 
15. Poplars and weeping willows in Sone 117 
17, 18, 19, 20. Cedars of Lebanon in scenery. 

119, 120, 121, 122, 


86, Lake in Petrovskoyé Gardens, 204 
37. Waltham House, es - 205 
54, Palace of Sorgenfrie, - 272 
76. View of Pulawy, in Poland, - - 376 
77. Villa Nuova, in Poland, - - 42. 
78. Palace of Lazenki, at Warsaw, - 377 
PORTRAITS. 
42, Professor Andrew Thouin, = eee, 


93. Summer costume of a journeyman gar- 
dener in the neighbourhood of Lon- 
don ; the hat of straw, and the jacket 
and trowsers of cotton, = - 452 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
Sc. &e. 


INTRODUCTION. 


Tuer agreeableness and utility of gardening pursuits are so 
generally known and acknowledged, that to insist on them 
here would be superfluous. Horticulture, as a means of sub- 
sistence, is one of the first arts attempted by man on emerging 
from barbarism; and landscape gardening, as an art of de- 
sign, is one of the latest inventions for the display of wealth 
and taste in ages of luxury and refinement. The love of gar- 
dening is so natural to man, as to be common to children, and 
the enjoyment of a garden so congenial to our ideas of happi- 
ness, as to be desired by men of all ranks and professions, 
who toil hard in cities, hoping, with Cowley, one day to retire 
to ‘a small house and a large garden.” The care of a gar- 
den is a source of agreeable domestic recreation, and espe- 
cially to the female sex; to the valetudinarian a garden isa 
source of health, and to age a source of interest; for it has 
been remarked of a taste for gardening, that, unlike other 
tastes, it remains with us to the latest period of life, and in- 
creases rather than diminishes. ' 

Next to the gratification of possessing any object, is the 
pleasure of reading or conversing about it: and on this prin- 
ciple, we think that a Gardener’s Magazine may be an accept- 
able addition to the periodical works already before the public. 
In an art so extensively practised as gardening, and one daily 
undergoing so much improvement, a great many occurrences 
must take place worthy of being recorded, not only for the 
entertainment of gardening readers, but for the instruction of 
practitioners in the art. ‘The use of the Gardener’s Magazine, 
in the latter respect, cannot be better expressed than in the 
words of various letters which we have received on the subject 
since first issuing our Prospectus. ‘ ‘The Gardener’s Maga- 

Vou.) Nols = B 


2 INTRODUCTION. 


zine,” say these letters, “ will put Gardeners in distant parts 
of the country on a footing with those about the metropolis. 
It is not that improvements are exclusively made in the latter 
circle; but more are made there than anywhere else, and most 
of those made elsewhere are soon heard of in the metropolitan 
district. Besides, almost all new importations are made to 
London, and all new varieties of useful or ornamental produc- 
tions, originated in distant parts of the country, soon find their 
way to the metropolis, either for the purpose of being made 
more generally known, or to be propagated for sale by nur- 
serymen and market gardeners. 

The London nurseries and market gardens are the first 
schools in the world for vegetable propagation and culture, 
and for acquiring a practical knowledge of botany. The know- 
ledge acquired in these schools will not alone fit a gardener 
for undertaking the charge of a private gentleman’s garden in 
the country; but unless a private gentleman’s gardener has been 
properly initiated in this species of elementary knowledge, 
though he may know the common routine fer supplying a family 
with fruits and vegetables, yet, he will be unfit to be entrusted 
with new or with rare plants, and incapable of keeping pace with 
the progress of his art. Asa recent and very considerable ac- 
cession to the advantages of the metropolis, we may add that 
great centre of intercourse and emporium of novelties, the 
London Horticultural Society, and its extensive garden. ‘The 
impulse which this Society has given to horticultural improve- 
ment in Britain, is truly astonishing; and even on the con- 
tinent, and in America, similar societies have sprung up in 
imitation of it, and for the same objects. In the gardens of 
this Society many new plants have been already introduced ; 
and this garden affords one of the best chances of settling the 
nomenclature of edible fruits and culinary vegetables, respect- 
ing which, at present, there is great uncertainty and confusion. 

The general practice of gardeners and their employers con- 
firms this view of the importance of the metropolitan district. 
When a gardener is in want of a situation, or a gentleman in 
search of a capital gardener, both apply to a London nursery- 
man : inferior situations may be filled up from provincial nur- 
series, but first-rate gardeners for every part of the empire are 
obtained from London. A first-rate gardener in place, in a 
distant province, would soon cease to be such, unless he paid 
frequent visits to those nurseries for improvement. In this 
respect, a gardener who does not stay longer than six or seven 
years in one situation has a great advantage over him who re- 
mains double or treble that time ; for before he acquires a new 
situation, he goes to his patron nurseryman, and works under 


INTRODUCTION. 8 


him till a suitable one occur. During this time, he brings 
forward his stock of knowledge of new plants and of new modes 
of culture to the present standard, and goes to his place a 
first-rate gardener as before. Another gardener, remotely 
situated, who remains in the same situation for twenty years, 
can scarcely avoid during that time falling greatly behind in 
the knowledge of modern improvements. Supposing him to 
leave his situation and go to work in a London nursery, 
he would be astonished at the number of new plants intro- 
duced; at the abundance and cheapness of such as were rare 
when he was formerly there; at the number of new varieties 
of fruits, of which he had not before even heard the names; at 
new modes of propagation for rare plants, and new modes of 
culture for common crops. This has been the case at all times, 
but it is more particularly so at present, when the progress of 
horticultural improvement is rapid beyond all former prece- 
dent. ‘There seems, as we have before observed, no means so 
likely to put gardeners residing at a distance on a footing with 
those round the metropolis, as the circulation of a Gardener’s 
Magazine and Register, recording every thing new as it occurs, 
and open to the communications both of practical and of theo- 
retical men. By means of such a work all gardeners whose 
previous information and habits are such, that they can derive 
advantage from reading, will be enabled to keep up their stock 
of knowledge to the full standard of value. Those who cannot 
or will not read, never have been, nor ever can be, first-rate 
gardeners. 

While the Gardener’s Magazine is improving the knowledge 
of gardeners, it will at the same time extend the sources of 
enjoyment to be procured from a garden. Many gentlemen in 
the country, who have not paid any attention to gardening 
themselves, and whose worthy and industrious gardener has, 
perhaps, gone on in the same track for twenty or thirty years, 
have little idea of the variety of productions which their gar- 
dens are calcuiated to afford at, perhaps, little or not more ex- 
pence than is at present incurred. We pass over the modern 
improvements in the forcing department, merely observing, that 
there isno garden where cucumbers and melons are grown 
which might not with little or no increase of stable-dung grow 
pine apples. A number of kitchen gardens in the country are 
worn out with age and cropping; the fruit-trees against the 
walls have ceased to bear freely: the walls are dilapidated by 
the alternate driving and drawing of nails for perhaps half a 
century ; and the soil is every where exhausted. The proprietor 
submits to the privations necessarily incurred under these cir- 
cumstances, and gradually becomes habituated to them, think- 

B 2 


4, INTRODUCTION. 


ing, perhaps, that there is no remedy but an entire new garden 
on anew site. But the expence of so formidable a change may 
sometimes be saved by the exercise of a little knowledge. If 
the situation and the subsoil be good, the surface soil may be 
wholly or partially renewed ; and brick walls will last for ages 
by jointing them and washing them over with Roman cement. 
Old fruit trees, if not too deeply planted, may be headed down, 
or re-grafted, or they may be totally removed and replaced 
by young trees. 

There are few things relating to kitchen-gardening in which 
there is greater room for improvenzent than in the selection of 
fruit-trees. A number of the fruits grown in almost every 
garden are of very inferior flavour, arising from the sorts 
originally selected either not having been gcod, or from the 
plants supplied not having proved true to their names. A 
great many excellent sorts of hardy fruits have been originated 
or imported, within the last twenty years. Few of these sorts 
are generally known in the country, and, consequently, are 
seldom enquired for, either for the purpose of planting new 
gardens, or of improving such as are already established. 
The idea is, indeed, too general, that when once a garden is 
planted it is completed; but a gardener, anxious to make the 
most of his garden, will be continually introducing new and 
better sorts of the articles which he cultivates, and eradicating 
such as are of inferior quality to make room for those of a 
superior description. 

The same style of remark is applicable to ornamental trees 
and shrubs. A great many new sorts of these have been in- 
troduced within the present century; and a number of those 
formerly in the country, which were considered tender, and 
requiring the protection of a wall or of glass, have been found 
to be quite hardy and fit for the open lawn or shrubbery. Still 
less is known in distant provinces of these trees and shrubs 
than of new fruits and culinary vegetables. There is scarcely 
any of them to be seen in the country nurseries, so that a pro- 
prietor of a garden has little chance of hearing of them, either 
through his gardener or his nursery-man. ‘The deficiency of 
ornamental trees, in even the best Scotch nurseries, is aston- 
ishing, when we consider the eminence of Scotland in garden- 
ing: as a result, we find the pleasure grounds of the north 
much less rich in variety than those of the south. 

The importance cf adding to our stock of hardy trees and 
shrubs, seems to be less generally felt than it ought to be. 
‘Tender exotics, requiring the protection of glass, must ever 
be of comparatively limited culture and imperfect develope- 
ment; but trees and shrubs, which will grow in our parks and 


INTRODUCTION. 5 


pleasure grounds, may be planted by all, and enjoyed by all: 
an increase of these would add a charm to the woodland 
scenery of the country, which would be felt alike by private 
owners and the public. The introduction of a new hardy 
tree or a shrub, or the acclimating of one hitherto supposed 
too tender for the open air, may, therefore, be considered as 
among the most patriotic of gardening efforts. But we have 
said enough to show the necessity of disseminating a know- 
ledge of the improvements daily making in gardening, as an 
art of culture. : 

To the improvement of gardening, as an art of design and 
taste, we intend in this Magazine to pay particular attention, 
and the more so as that department does not seem to be in- 
cluded in the ebjects of the London and the Caledonian Hor- 
ticultural Societies: the published transactions of these bodies 
being exclusively devoted to vegetable propagation and culture. 
Our Magazine will embrace both departments of the art ; and 
while we have the satisfaction of co-operating with the horti- 
cultural societies, by disseminating among practical gardeners 
the knowledge contained in their valuable publications, we 
will have the additional gratification of directing the proprietors 
of country residences to a species of elegant improvement, 
the taste for which at present is very generally dormant. 

It seems to be now almost forgotten that England first set 
the example in this branch of art; and that landscape garden- 
ing, about a century ago, was as much the fashion as horti- 
culture is at present. Since the beginning of the present 
century, and even before, this taste has been on the decline; 
having given way, first, to war and agriculture, and since the 
return of peace to horticulture. 

But landscape gardening has created, in Britain, parks and 
pleasure grounds unequalled in any other part of the world. 
These remain as examples of what might still be done; but in 
laying out new, or improving old residences, there seems to be 
a great want, either of industry or ability to profit from them. 
There are, no doubt, exceptions; but there is not a tithe of 
the country seats which have been laid out within the last thirty 
years that do not owe their beauty more to the climate and the 
architect than to the disposition of the woody scenery. Very 
few country gentlemen have a just feeling for what painters call 
general effect: breadth of light and shade: connection and 
grouping of parts; the importance of which is so ably illustrated 
by Girardin, Price, and other authors. Many, with every de- 
sire to excel, consider that when they have engaged a first-rate 
gardener, he will do every thing required in laying out or im- 
proving a place. But the sort of knowledge required for the 

B 3 


6 INTRODUCTION. 


disposition of scenery is very different from that requisite for 
the culture and management of a garden; and a gardener can 
no more be expected to possess it, than a mason or a carpenter 
the science and taste of the architect. A very good test of the 
taste, of any one in either art, is a facility in sketching general 
scenery. We never yet knew an architect, justly entitled to 
the character of eminent, who could only draw geometrical 
elevations; nor a landscape gardener deserving of the name, 
who could only convey his ideas by maps and ground plans. 
We have indeed known men in both professions extensively 
employed who could not sketch scenery: but look at their 
works! We do not say that every man who can scketch is 
qualified to become an architect, or a landscape gardener; on 
the contrary, to compose a design in either art, that can be 
carried into execution, the one must possess a knowledge of the 
strength of building materials, and the other of ground, of 
plants, and other garden articles, and of the art of gardening; 
but we cannot conceive how any person who has not practised 
sketching from nature, can acquire that habit of foretelling the 
effect of objects in perspective, and that taste for grouping, 
connection, and unity of effect, without which an architect or a 
landscape gardener is good for nothing. We are borne out in 
this opinion by the best authorities. 

The modern art of laying out grounds is, indeed, considered 
by many as an anomalous business, practised by a set of em- 
pirics without principles: but the truth is, as Wheatly, Gi- 
rardin, the two Masons, Price, Knight, Dugald Stewart, and 
especially Mr. Alison have shown, its principles as an art of 
imagination are those of painting, and as an art contributing to 
the convenience and comfort of man, it is directed by those of 
fitness and utility. The principles of architecture are precisely 
the same; indeed the principles of composition are the same 
in all the arts of taste; and whether an artist compose a poem, 
a piece of music, a building, a painted or a real landscape, he 
is alike guided by unity of expression as to the whole or general 
effect, and by the connection and co-operation of the compo- 
nent parts. 4 

It has been objected to landscape gardeners that no two of 
them agree about the mode of laying out a plan, or the beauties 
of a verdant scene: but, it may be asked, do two of any other 
art accerd in any thing but on certain fixed or received prin- 
ciples ? Will two architects agree in their plans for repairing a 
house? Or two physicians in prescribing for a patient? It is 
enough if scientific men and artists agree in the fundamental 
principles of their art. If two architects are agreed as to the 
strength and durability of materials; the quantity of accom- 


INTRODUCTION. @ 


modation required for particular classes of society, or particular 
purposes of occupation, and the general principles of com- 
position, as applied to the materials they work with ; they may 
differ as to the kind of beauty of the edifice which they design, 
but each will produce a beautiful edifice. In like manner, two 
landscape gardeners, equally instructed in their art, might 
give different plans for laying out the same ground, but both 
plans would, nevertheless, be beautiful, though neither of them 
might be suited to the ideas of a third person. Principles 
that admit of a great variety of application will always display 
great diversity of taste in the productions created from them. 
A symmetrical building, in which all the parts on one side 
have corresponding parts on the other, is understood by, and 
gives satisfaction to the most ordinary observer: there is an 
obvious reason for every thing, for there is but one principle 
of guidance, symmetry: but, in an irregular edifice, the har- 
mony of the parts is not so soon perceived; there seems no 
particular reason why they should not have been fewer or 
more numerous, larger or smaller, farther apart or nearer, or 
differently disposed relatively to one another. To perceive the 
beauties of such an edifice, the mind must have undergone a 
certain degree of instruction in the principles of composition. 
Without this instruction, or with it to a limited extent, it is 
easy to conceive how great must be the difference of opinion 
as to the beauty of objects designed upon any but the very 
lowest principles of art. Hence the great variety of opinions 
as to the beauties produced by modern landscape gardening, 
the principles of composition of which admit of infinite variety 
of application in order to imitate nature; compared with the 
general approbation of the antient style of laying out grounds, 
the principles of which were those of regularity or formality, 
in order to produce works easily recognised as artificial. 

That a gardener should at once excel in landscape garden- 
ing and in gardening as an art of culture, we consider impos- 
sible: it is sufficient if he excel in one department; for the 
continued personal attention required for each, is such as to 
preclude all hope of excelling in both. No gardener, how- 
ever, ought to be limited in his knowledge to one department ; 
for even a moderate knowledge of landscape gardening will 
be of use to the garden cultivator; and a landscape gardener 
_without a knowledge of plant culture could never direct the 
execution of his plans. This knowledge we hope our Maga- 
zine will eventually increase; and, at all events, we hope to 
rouse the landed proprietors to a sense of the beauties of this 
department of gardening. 

While devoting our attention to the advancement of garden- 

ys: 


8 INTRODUCTION. 


ing and gardeners, we hope not to forget the horticultural com- 
forts of the poor. We shall endeavour to promote a taste for 
the art among country labourers, and to draw the attention 
of every cottager who has a garden, to the profit and enjoyment 
which he may derive from its improved cultivation. We shall 
be the more attentive to this subject, as we think that it, no less 
than landscape-gardening, has been rather overlooked by our 
horticultural societies. 

Agriculture is so intimately connected with garden culture, 
that no publication on the one art can wholly separate itself 
from the other. In this Magazine we will avoid the business 
of farming, and all discussions on political agriculture, tithes, 
prices, markets, &c. These subjects have long been conducted 
in a manner productive of the most beneficial results in the 
Farmer’s Magazine, and in different agricultural newspapers. 
The introduction of agriculture in the Gardener’s Magazine 
will be limited, in general, to such improvements as are made 
on a proprietor’s demesne, and to the reviews of such agricul- 
tural publications as chiefly concern bailiffs and land-stewards, 
the beneficial direction of rural expenditure, and the general 
improvement of territorial property, by planting, draining, 
road-making, &c. Improvements in domestic economy and 
rural architecture, will, also, come in for a subordinate share 
of attention, especially such as tend to the amelioration of the 
operative classes. of society. 

Finally, there is one subject which, more than every thing 
else, will tend to improve gardening and agriculture, — the 
better education of gardeners and agronomes. A man may 
cultivate a common kitchen-garden, or a small farm, with very 
little knowledge besides that which he may acquire in being 
brought up to these occupations. Mr. Knight had a man who 
could grow pine-apples “ without knowing a letter or a figure;” 
but to fit gardeners for the extent and variety of their duties 
in first-rate situations, a scholastic education superior to that, 
which, with very few exceptions, even the best of them receive 
at present, is required. As gardening has advanced, as its 
productions and its province have extended, the situation of 
head gardener has become more and more important; he has 
become a more confidential servant; he is entrusted with more 
power, and is more frequently consulted by the master and 
mistress of the family, with whom his communications are 
more frequent than they used to be. It is highly necessary, 
therefore, that an improvement should take place in the ele- 
mentary education of those intended for head-gardeners; anu 
as most gardeners are the sons of gardeners, we shall consida. 
it a part of our duty to impress on the minds of the parents, 


INTRODUCTION. 9 


the necessity and advantage of an education for their children 
considerably beyond what they themselves have received. 

It is a common complaint among gardeners, that they are 
not sufficiently paid, and that a man who knows little mere of 
gardening than a common labourer, is frequently as amply 
remunerated as a man who has served a regular apprenticeship 
to his business. ‘This is perfectly true where the gardener is 
nearly or equally devoid of elementary instruction with the 
labourer. But the remark does not apply to gardeners who 
have either received a tolerable scholastic education, or have 
made up for the defect of it afterwards by self-improvement; 
or if it apply to them, the blame is their own. We know from 
the information of some respectable nurserymen, as well as of 
our own knowledge, that there are a number of proprietors in 
this country who cannot get gardeners so well qualified as they 
wish, and who would gladly increase the emolument for a supe- 
rior class of men. We also know that there are some noble- 
men who do not allow their head gardener more than the 
wages of a servant in livery: but this evil we trust to see re- 
formed; for if good gardeners be not sufficiently paid, they . 
will soon cease to be produced. If a class of superiorly edu- 
cated gardeners were to come forward, they would create a 
demand for themselves, on the principle that demand is in- 
fluenced both by the supply and the quality of the article. Be- 
sides, as to education, parents will recollect that the better their 
children are educated, the fitter will they be to change their 
profession, if they should not succeed in it, or to suffer the 
disappointment with patience, and make the most of it, if they 
cannot do better. The same remarks will apply to agronomes. 
We substitute the word agronome for the hateful appellation 
bailiff, till some of our readers shall furnish us with a better. 

Having now stated at length the nature and object of the 
Gardener’s Magazine, we proceed to lay before our readers 
such communications as our friends have favoured us with, 
hoping to render succeeding numbers more and more interest- 
ing as the circulation of the work extends, and its correspond- 
ents increase in number. We invite all those who take an in- 
terest in gardening to assist us by their advice, and by the com- 
munication of information on every subject connected with the 
work : we especially invite practical gardeners to come forward 
and support a work calculated to promote their own honour 
and advantage. Let them not make as excuses the being un- 
accustomed to write, want of style, &c. but let them fix on a 
subject, begin it at once, and write straight on to the end, re- 
gardless of every thing but the correctness of their statements. 
This done once or twice, a good style will come of itself. 


10 


PAR 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Arr. I. On the present State of Gardening in Ireland, with 
Hints for its future Improvement. ‘By Mr. James Fraser, 
Gardener, author of a Letter to the President and Vice- 
President of the Horticultural Society of Ireland. 


TPSHOSE who are practically acquainted with the improve- 

ments which have been made in Horticulture for these 
twenty years past in Britain, and have not visited Ireland, will 
scarcely credit the assertion, that during this time the art in the 
latter country has rather retrograded than advanced ; that even 
around Dublin, the far-famed environs of Dublin, little, com- 
parativ ly speaking, has been done. It is a fact which can- 
not be denied, that the numerous wealthy absentees have 
tended to injure gardening upon an extensive scale, as also to 
retard the modern improvements. But there are still numerous 
resident weaithy gentlemen, fond of every elegant enjoyment, 
who possess, generally speaking, demesnes of greater extent 
than is tisually to be met with in England, which, in point of 
variety of surface, of hill and dale, of wood and water, are far 
more susceptible of every rural improvement. Yet, strange 
to say, we still plod on in the old beaten track; wedded to the 
old customs, the gardener looks upon every new method in- 
troduced as an innovation on his rights; and the employer 
cares little for those elegancies which render a country life de- 
lightful, but feels content if the wants of the family are sup- 
plied. There is one obvious cause, however, that has contri- 
buted in no small degree to produce the evil of which we 
complain, namely, the employment of men as gardeners not 
regularly bred to the business, at a low rate of wages :— men 
of a very limited education, who are treated as mere indoor 
servants, placed on an equality with them, and hold their 
places on the same uncertain tenure. Under these circum- 
stances, we do contend, that it is morally impossible for im- 


Present State of Gardening in Ireland. ll 


provements on an extensive scale, or where success depends 
upon any degree of accuracy in their application, to be car- 
ried into effect ; and it is more than reasonable to expect that 
gardeners not feeling an interest in their situation, will enter 
warmly into any thing tending to the permanent benefit of the 
place; they will take advantage of such crops as may be pro- 
duced, without any regard to the ultimate consequences. 

While on this subject, it is but fair to state that the gentry 
of Ireland have evinced an extraordinary degree of luke-warm- 
ness, in not coming forward to establish a horticultural society, 
after the noble practical examples set before them in the sister 
kingdoms. ‘The society bearing the name of the horticultural 
society of Ireland, under the management of nurserymen and 
practical gardeners in the neighbourhood of Dublin, is too 
local in its influence to advance the art in a national point of 
view. 

These strictures, as regard the relative situations of garden- 
ers, and the taste of their employers, we are happy to say, are 
only applicable in a very general sense. There are many 
honorable exceptions. In the course of our observations, we 
shall feel great pleasure in showing that, where the proprietors 
have given proper encouragement, their gardens vie, in point 
of extent, design, and management, and their gardeners in 
point of respectability and intelligence in their profession, with 
any in the empire. 

There are three botanic gardens in this country; two in 
Dublin, the other in Cork. The last mentioned is small in 
extent, and the collection of plants few, comparatively speak- 
ing. Of the two in Dublin, one belongs to the Dublin 
Society, the other to Trinity College. ‘The former is the 
largest in the mpire, and in point of picturesque beauty is 
wholly unequalled. ‘The botanic gardens in Dublin possess 
this advantage over those in Britain, namely, a classical ar- 
rangement of trees and shrubs. It has often occurred to us, 
as an extraordinary circumstance, the great attention paid in 
the British botanic gardens to the collecting and arranging of 
herbaceous plants, while the greater part of trees and shrubs 
have been, till of late, neglected. The Dublin Society’s gar- 
den is open to the public. A course of lectures is delivered 
annually, which is also free, and even the young men em- 
ployed in the garden are obliged to attend. This garden was 
not laid out and managed by the Jate Dr. Wade, the professor 
of Botany, as was generally supposed, but by the present ca- 
lented superintendant, Mr. W. Underwood. Mr. Mackay, the 
curator of the College garden, is so well known as an indefati- 
gable botanist, that any observation here regarding him would 


12 Present State of Gardening in Ireland. 


be quite superfluous. All these botanic gardens are ably de- 
scribed in the Edinburgh and Gardening Encyclopedias. _ 
The only public grounds about Dublin are contained in 
the Phoenix Park, in which are also the country residences 
of the Lord Lieutenant, Chief and Under Secretaries, &c. 
This Park is very extensive, and the grounds are more ele- 
vated and contain a greater variety of surface than any of the 
Royal Parks in the vicinity of London. There appears to 
have been no general design in the disposition of the trees, if 
we except the aiternate groups of English elm, on each side 
of the public road, and the trees around the residences we 
have just mentioned. A great many hawthorns have been 
irregularly scattered throughout the grounds, and during the 
administration of Earl Talbot several very formal groups and 
clumps were made without the least regard to the general 
ornament of the place. It is to be regretted that some pro- 
fessional landscape gardener was not empleyed in the orna- 
menting of this Park, for if it was judiciously planted, due 
advantage being taken of the numerous objects within itself, 
and of the endless variety of delightful scenery which sur- 
round it, assuredly there would be nothing like it in the empire. 
The enclosure around the Lord Lieutenant’s house is of 
itself 2 very charming little demesne, and contains several 
fine ornamental trees. We observed some large well formed 
trees of the Ulmus parvifolia, generally confounded with 
the common English elm, which, from the different mode 
of grewth, form a fine contrast with the nemoralis. ‘There 
are several very fine oaks to the westward of the house, 
where the woody character has been properly preserved. The 
gardens are extensive in every department, and are admira- 
bly kept by the present superintendant, Mr. Robson. There 
is nothing very interesting or grand about them; on the con- 
trary, all is plain, neat, and economical. The fruit trees 
on the walls are well managed. We observed a beautiful 
variety of pyracantha against the walls of one of the little en- 
closures near the gardener’s house, with deep scarlet haws. 
Mr. Robson has been in the habit of propagating in autumn, 
by cuttings, large quantities of the different free growing sorts 
of pelargoniums, hemmemerises, and heliotropes, &c. which 
he keeps over the winter in frames, and in spring plants out 
distinctly in separate beds throughout the flower garden, where 
they blow during the summer and autumn in great luxuriance. 
Having had a number of plants this year of the Cobcea scan- 
dens, he planted several of them against walls, palings, &c. and 
their growth was really amazing. They all fruited, and many 
of them are likely to ripen seed. We mention this circum- 


Present State of Gardening in Ireland. 13 


stance simply to show that this plant might be used with great 
success in covering bowers and other rustic buildings during 
the summer and autumn, even should it not resist the winter 
months. 

‘The gardens and demesnes of the Chief and Under Secre- 
taries are also well worth notice. The gardens are extensive, 
and have been long celebrated for their excellent productions. 
The demesnes are neat and well wooded. Mr. Forsyth, gar- 
.dener to the Chief Secretary, is well known as an excellent 
general horticulturist ; and Mr. Wilkie, gardener to Mr. Gre- 
gory, is a highly respectable man in his profession, and a 
zealous amateur in every thing tending to its improvement. 

In observing generally on the present state of gardening” 
here, we have to remark that the same indifference to every 
improvement in horticultural buildings prevails, as in the 
royal gardens around London. Every new method runs its 
round, before it passes the centinel at the gate, and in ninety- 
nine cases out of a hundred it is refused admittance. The 
dressed grounds are upon an extensive scale, very formal, and 
as yet no variety of ornamental trees or shrubs have been 
introduced. 

Not many years ago the neighbourhood of Dublin could 
boast of some as splendid gardens as any around London. 
But, alas! how are things changed. Look at Rathfarnham 
Castle, not a solitary instance, but one out of many, where a 
magnificent green house, on the same plan as those at Hamp- 
ton Court and Kew, has been turned into a cow-shed, and 
the fine old Dutch garden is now a total ruin. In this coun- 
try, whenever a gentleman’s affairs render it necessary to re- 
duce his expenditure, or his health or business calls him 
abroad, the first step of his agent, who is generally an at- 
torney, or some person equally regardless of every thing but 
making money, is to recommend the gardener’s discharge, 
and that the garden be either let or left to the care of some 
old follower; that is, one who has worked for many years 
about the place. This is no imaginary view ; in nineteen cases 
out of twenty such advice is given, and as often followed. 
But mark the consequences:—the labourer undertakes the 
business, and for which he is paid the sum of ten pence per 
day. If, in the course of a few years, the proprietor returns 
home, or finds it convenient to keep his place in its former 
style, where are his fruit and ornamental trees, &c., the labor of 
a hundred years? —gone! for what? the mighty saving of 
a few pounds. The painter and gilder may repair any dila- 
pidations that time may have made in the house; should 
even the fabrick itself have tumbled down, it can be rebuilt, 


14 Present State of Gardening in Ireland. 


but in the ordinary life of man what could reproduce the 
others? Every one conversant in the localities of Ireland 
knows well the truth of what we have here stated. 

In order to obviate such irreparable consequences, we 
would warmly recommend to such gentlemen as from neces- 
sity or choice wish to curtail their expenditures in this depart- 
ment, to lay down as much of the garden and pleasure- 
grounds as are possible in grass, and to retain the gardener, 
with as much assistance as may be necessary, to keep the 
trees and other ornamental! plants in deve order. The expence 
in this case is ultimately a mere trifle compared to the line of 
proceeding we have just condemned. 

Merville, the delightful villa of Lord Downes, is situated 
about two miles south of Dublin, and is unquestionably one 
of the best kept places in the empire. The garden is not of 
great extent, but it contains an excellent collection of fruit 
trees, which are kept in perfect order. ‘The forcing houses 
are very complete: there is nothing particular in their form- 
ation; like the greater part of the hot-houses in this country, 
they are nearly the same as those delineated by Nicol in his 
earlier editions of the “ Scotch Forcing Gardener.” A range 
of pits for the growth of pine apples, on the plan of those so 
common about London and Liverpool, have been lately built, 
and answer well. It is to be hoped that the recent improve- 
ments effected throughout England in the growth of this in- 
comparable fruit, by which so much time and expence are 
saved, will, ere long, render every gardener familiar with its 
culture. In the flower-garden there are two remarkably neat 
houses, with copper sashes and metallic rafters ; one is used 
as a green house, the other as a stove for plants, and they 
both contain an excellent collection. The parterre in front 
of these houses is remarkably pretty, and here, in the proper 
season, may be seen the best collection of spring-flowers in 
the kingdom. ‘The figures in the parterre are, in our opi- 
nion, rather formal. We hope ere long to see the stiff geo- 
metrical figures which have so long held a place in the flower 
garden entirely exploded, and fancy, aided by correct taste, 
have its flight in this department of gardening. The kalei- 
doscope exhibits many figures which will greatly assist the 
imagination in matters of this kind. Detached from the gar- 
den, there is a small American ground, where are the best 
private collection of bog plants we know of jin the vicinity of 
Dublin. _ They are judiciously planted and in great health. 


Dublin, 28th October, 1825. 


(To be continued.) 


Art. II. Upon the Method of setting the Fruit of the Grana- 
dilla. By an AMatreur. 


Tue granadilla, or, as it is called by the South American 
Spaniards, Purchas, is a well known West Indian fruit, pro- 
duced by various kinds of passiflora, especially by P. quadran- 
gularis, maliformis, and laurifolia, and also by a species now 
common in our stoves, called Passiflora edulis. It varies in 
size and external appearance according to the particular spe- 
cies by which it is borne, but is in all cases a sort of gourd- 
like’ apple, filled with seeds enveloped in a copious pulp, of a 
most agreeable, subacid flavour. The great merit of this latter 
substance, as a luxury for the dessert, has induced many indi- 
viduals to attempt the cultivation of the plants in their stoves; 
and not without success. The fruit of the P. edulis is pro- 
duced in abundance, without any particular treatment of the 
blossoms, but it is inferior to that of either of the three other 
kinds. Those known do not bear produce in sufficient abun- 
dance to make their cultivation worth attention, except under 
a particular management of their flowers, which, as it is, I 
believe, very little known, I will endeavour to explain, as 
it is practised in the stove of a gentleman in this neighbour- 
hood. 

It is well known that the beauty of the flower of the common 
passion-flower depends upon the variously-coloured little threads 
which are symmetrically arranged around its centre, so as to 
exhibit the appearance of rays; these rays proceed from a fleshy 
cup, inside of which are also some other processes which 
project from the side of the cup towards the centre, and 
from a cavity capable of holding a considerable quantity of 
moisture. From the base of this cavity rises up an erect solid 
stalk, upon the top of which, above the stamens, is placed a 
little green ball, surmounted by three styles, which ball after- 
wards becomes the fruit. Now, ina hot climate, when the 
breezes are constantly playing among the foliage, and when 
the necessary moisture for the subsistence of the plant is sup- 
plied by the dews and a humid atmosphere only, no inconve- 
nience arises from the complicated arrangement by which 
nature has distinguished the flower of the granadilla genus 
from that of all others. But in a stove, in an artificial state, 
where ventilation is necessarily very imperfect, and where the 
flowers are subject to be dashed with the spray or the direct 
effusion of the water-engine, a different event takes place. 
The fleshy filamentous rays, which, in the tropics become 
withered up, and quickly perish, are kept, by the circumstances 
just alluded to, in an unnaturally damp state, and, becoming. 


16 Effect of the Lombardy Poplar. 


rotten, collapse, and either fill the cavity described to exist at - 
the bottom of the stalk of the fruit, with a preternatural col- 
lection of putrid water, which quickly causes the stalk to decay 
at its base, and, consequently, the young fruit to fall off long 
before it even approaches maturity, or which, when the re- 
mains of the flower become pendulous, keeps the young fruit 
and its support so damp as to produce the same effects. But 
if, with a pair of very sharp scissors, the whole of the fleshy rays 
are remooved after the flower is fecundated, all this inconveni- 
ence is avoided, and, in most cases, the fruit will swell and 
arrive at maturity, especially if a little pollen be applied to the 
stigmas, with a feather or a bit of any soft substance. 

This is a very simple contrivance, and it would seem obvious 
enough; but the cause of the failure in obtaining fruit being 
generally unknown, it is not surprising that the mode of re- 
moving the impediments to its maturation should have been 
also overlooked. 

The figure, at the end of this communication, will serve to 
explain the peculiar structure which I have attempted to point 
out. 

Those who may desire to find a detailed account of the various 
kinds of granadillas, will do well to consult the Horticultural 
Society’s ‘Transactions, vol. iii, p.99., where there is an ex- 
cellent account of them, by Joseph Sabine, Esq., the Secretary. 


Art. III. Remarks on the Effect of the Lombardy Poplar in 
Park Scenery. By Mr. Joun Tuomrson, Landsurveyor 
and Pictorial Draughtsman. 


THE Lombardy poplar is a tree, which, as applied to the 
science of arboriculture, is capable of producing not only the 
most noble and striking, but the greatest variety of effect ; and 


Lombardy Poplar in Scenery. 17 


perhaps, there is no tree which has the misfortune to be in 
general so injudiciously planted. I have, therefore, sent you 
a few remarks founded upon the study of landscape composi- 
tion, in which I do not intend to say any thing of the bad or 
good qualities of the poplar, but merely to consider it as a tall 
conical mass of foliage, which becomes of great import, when 
contrasted with the more useful and valuable round headed 
trees. 

First then, it is a known pictorial rule, that all horizontal 
lines should be balanced and supported by perpendicular ones; 
— thus, the effect of a bridge or via-duct would be greatly in- 
creased by the assistance of poplars. 

In the accompanying sketch, (jig. 1.) not only the lines of the 


lines intersecting each other at right angles, than which effect, 
nothing can be more simply grand and classical. This is ad- 
mirably illustrated at Blenheim, where the poplar is an ac- 
companiment of all the bridges, but more particularly at that 
via-duct, where the water first enters the park ; this seen from 
the neighbourhood of the great bridge, forms a landscape of 
much beauty and purity. But the planting of the island is as 
much at variance with good taste: it is covered with tall pop- 
lars, forming a mass which seems too big for its base; and 
which mass, from its stiff and upright form, contrasts but 
badly with the varied outline of the surrounding wood and 
water. How much more agreeable it would have been to 
Vou. I. No. 1. C 


4 


18 Lombardy Poplar in Scenery. 


have looked down from the bridge on a well-selected group of 
round headed trees. 
The poplar, therefore, would be advantageously planted 
wherever there is a continuance of horizontal lines; but they 
should be so arranged as to form a part of those lines, to 
seem to grow out of them, rather than to break or contrast 
with them in too abrupt a manner. In the case of a stable or 
other agricultural building, where the principal mass extends in 


fo) . e 
length rather than in height, (fg. 2.), it would be wrong toplant 


them exactly before it (a), but they should be at the sides or. 
behind. The poplar is very generally planted before the cot- 
tages and residences, which are to be found on the roads a few 
miles from the metropolis; and as forming a part of those re- 
sidences nothing can be worse; you may see six or eight pop- 
lars taller than the house, obstructing its view, and overpower- 
ing and: diminishing it by their magnitude and stiffness, when 
a few low trees mixed with laburnams, lilacs, &c., would be 
so much more to the purpose, — not but the poplars are well 
calculated to produce good effect as a whole, when the road is 
seen in perspective; but it is not to be supposed that general 
effect and public ornament has been stucied by individuals. 
The poplar should also appear in all plantations and belts that 
are made with a view to picturesque effect, (fv. 3.), but more 


particularly, they should be introduced in a sparing but judi- 
cious manner in all-pleasure-grounds; and they are quite i- 


Lombardy Poplar in Scenery. 19 


dispensable in the formation of such groups as are intended to 
convey an impression of that grand and classical simplicity, 
which is, or should be, the first object in all ornamental plant- 
ing. Another sketch, (jig. 4. a, b.) will be the shortest way 


of showing the assistance which the poplars give to a group of 
trees. Here, though the mass (a) might be seen to advantage in 
some situations, when grouping with other objects, it is, when 
contemplated merely by itself, quite uninteresting from its dull 
and monotonous appearance; but add the poplars, as in (4) and 
you immediately create an interest, and give a certain charac- 
ter to the group which it did not before possess. ‘The causes 
are these: the poplars being taller than the other trees, and 
terminating in a point, serve to carry off the group into the 
sky, or whatever may be behind it; and their pointed heads 
form a pleasing contrast to the round heads, and break the too 
uniform line exhibited in the round-headed group (a). ‘Then 
their branches rising stiffly upwards, contrast with and render 
more graceful the pendent ones; and their stems being taller, 
form an agreeable variety in the lower part of the group. 

Of course, there are other trees which would add consider- 
able interest to the group under consideration, particularly 
those of the fir tribe, and such as are ofa light and pendent 

c 2 


. 20 Green Vegetable Manure. 


nature; but my object has been to consider the lombardy pop- 
lar under the least advantageous circumstances, and to show its 
yalue and importance in breaking the monotony of most planta- 
tions Its combination with other trees, and remarks on them 
individually, may become the subject of some future paper. 
I am, dear Sir, 
Yours, &c. 

No.1. Wellingtcn Street, Joun THOMPSON. 
Waterloo Brice Strand. 


Art. LV. Observations on an Hypothesis concerning the Effects 
of Green Vegetable Manure. By Anruony Topp THom- 
son, M.D. F. L. S., &c. Author of Lectures on Botany. 

Dear Sir, 

In perusing the first volume of the ‘Transactions of the Hor- 
ticultural Society of London, I was particularly struck with 
an hypothesis advanced by a gentleman, to whose labours in 
Phytology the world is very largely indebted, Mr. T. A. 
Knight, in a paper read by him before that society, ‘“ on the 
advantage of employing vegetable matter, as manure, in a fresh 
state.” The hypothesis referred to, assumes as a principle, 
that plants thrive better on a soil manured with green-veget- 
able matter, because “ many vegetable substances are best 
calculated to re-assume the organic, living state, when they are 
least changed and decomposed by putrefaction.” 

The grounds on which Mr. Knight has raised this hypothe- 
sis are two, well-contrived experiments. In the first, the seeds 
of the Plum vegetated, with uncommon rapidity, in pots nearly 
filled with the fresh leaves and roots of grasses: in the second, 
which was a more extended and an admirable comparative 
experiment, turnips sowed on different portions of the same 
field, differently manured, grew more vigorously in proportion 
as the manure approached to the state of fresh-vegetable 
matter. Thus, the crop was very forward and luxuriant on a 
portion of the field on which green Fern had been employed 
as manure; less so on another portion on which fold and sta- 
ble manure had been used ; and least forward ona third por- 
tion, the manure of which was completely decayed dung. 
The inferences drawn from these experiments, are endea- 
voured to be further supported by Mr. Knight, by an ima- 
ginary analogy between the assimilating functions of plants 
and those of carnivorous animals, ‘‘ who,” he observes, “ re- 
ceive more nutriment from the flesh of other animals, when 
they obtain it most nearly in the state in which it exists as 
part of a living body.” 


Green Vegetable Manure. 9) 


Without referring to the analogy, which could be easily 
proved to be incorrect, and a weak and inefficient prop to 
the argument, I think I shall have little difficulty in convinc- 
ing you and the public, that the comparative experiment, al- 
though it was apparently conclusive, yet, was incomplete‘and 
unsatisfactory ; inasmuch as no use appears to have been made 
of the thermometer, for ascertaining the comparative degree 
of heat of the soil, in the portions of the field when manured 
in the manner already described, both when the turnip seed 
was sown, and at different periods of the growth of the plants. 
To this neglect, I conceive may be attributed the fallacy of 
the conclusions; which have been deduced from so well 
planned an experiment. 

I am aware that, in opposing the opinions of so truly phi- 
losophical an enquirer into vegetable physiology as Mr. Knight 
is, I expose myself to the hazard of being stigmatized with 
presumption; but, Iam also convinced, that as truth alone 
is the object of that gentleman’s researches, he will receive 
with candour any objections to his opinions which are fairly 
advanced. I have, therefore, no hesitation in asserting, that 
before we can admit the correctness of the opinion, which 
assumes that the superiority of the crop, on the portion of 
the field manured with the green fern, was owing to the more 
easy re-organization of the recent vegetable matter employed 
as manure, by the living powers of the growing plants, the 
author of it is bound to demonstrate how any vegetable sub- 
stance contained in the soil, in a state not reduced to its 
ultimate components, can be taken up by the absorbents of 
the radicles of plants; and, also, how any vegetable substance, 
without being so reduced, can be rendered sufficiently soluble 
in the soil to enter the mouths of these minute vessels? I 
am willing to admit that the secretions of some plants are 
altered by situation, and the nature of the soil in which they 
grow: as for example, in the change from potash to soda, 
which occurs in plants brought from inland situations and 
cultivated near the sea. But, it must be remarked, that these 
changes are found to occur in the saline secretions only, which 
are remarkably soluble. Linnzeus, indeed, maintained, that 
the secretions of plants very different from one another in 
genera and species, growing on the same soil, exist ready 
prepared in the earth, and are merely selected by the plants: 
but this opinion has been long since regarded as untenable. 
The living powers of both animals and plants seem to be per- 
fectly adapted for recombining substances the most opposite 
and incongruous, and assimilating them to their own proper 
nature. What can be stronger proofs of this fact, than that 

Cc 3 


22 Green Vegetable Manure. 


the Cobra de Capelho secretes the poison which is found 
under its fang, from aliment which is not essentially different 
from that employed by the most innocuous of the serpent 
tribe; and that fruit, which is sweet, palatable, and nutritious, 
is the product of the same soil as the most bitter, nauseous, 
and poisonous plants? or that, in the same animal and plant, 
secretions are found possessed of properties almost diametri- 
cally opposite? It is a fact, well known to physiologists, that 
chyle, the substance produced by the change which the food 
undergoes, before it mingles with the blood, has no analogy 
with the character of the food from which it is formed, but 
derives its peculiar properties from the action of the glands of 
the mesentery by which it is prepared. Whether this be the 
case with the sap of plants, which may be regarded as the 
chyle of vegetables, we shall never, perhaps, be able to ascer- 
tain, owing to the impossibility of obtaining it unmixed with 
some of the ready formed secretions, previously deposited in 
or near the root of the plant; but, from the known characters of 
sap, as it has been procured, we know that it varies much 
less in different plants than we might ¢@ priori expect, on view- 
ing the great diversity of their secretions. That it is not, 
therefore, requisite for the vigorous growth of plants to ma- 
nure the soil with fresh-vegetable matier, in order to enable 
the plants to obtain their food in a state the least changed, and 
decomposed by putrefaction, is obvious; but it must, at the 
same time, be admitted, that fresh-vegetable matter employed 
as manure is admirably adapted to advance vegetation; and 
the following appears tome to be the true explanation of 
this fact, and the cause of the great superiority of the crop, 
on the portion of the field manured with the green Fern al- 
luded to in Mr. Knight’s experiment. 

One of the most striking, and the most universally known, 
of the phenomena of the process of fermentation, is the extri- 
cation of heat; and this principle, also, is the most powerful 
and healthful stimulus of the vegetable excitability, when it is 
not applied in excess. Now, the disposition of green or re- 
cent vegetable matter to run into rapid fermentation is well 
known; and it is easy to conceive, that matter of this de- 
scription, placed under the soil so as to retain a considerable 
degree of moisture, is in a situation the most favourable for 
commencing and carrying on the process of fermentation ; 
thence, the more recent the vegetable substance, the sooner 
will the extrication of heat commence, and the longer will 
it be given out. The surrounding soil, also, not being of 
a combustible nature, and not a very good conductor of ca- 
loric, the heat will spread in a more equable degree; while, 


Green Vegetable Manure. 23 


the rapidity of the fermentation will be so moderated, as to 
prevent the pabulum of the process, if I may so express 
myself, from being too soon exhausted. Owing to this state of 
the green Fern, therefore, the germination of the turnip seed 
sown over it was begun, and the vegetative process carried on 
in the plants, in a manner somewhat similar to the effect which 
would follow were the seed sown in a hot-bed; except that the 
heat was ofa more moderate degree, and, consequently, better 
suited to maintain the functions of the vegetable economy in 
the growing plant in a healthy state. The fold and stable 
manure, on account of the ready formed salts it contained, 
would, perhaps, promote the germination of the seed and tke 
growth of the plants more vigorously fora short time; but as 
the process of fermentation would be sooner completed in it 
than in the green Fern, the supply of heat to the soil would be 
sooner exhausted, and consequently, that necessary stimulus 
being withdrawn from the growing turnips on the portion of 
the field manured with it, the plants over the green Fern 
would now gain the ascendancy, as they were still supplied 
with heat; the process of decomposition being yet in activity 
inthe Fern. Again, as the fermentation was altogether over 
in the completely decayed dung, no heat, or scarcely any, 
would be extricated from it, and, therefore, the sole benefit 
which could arise to the germinating seeds and growing 
plants from this manure, must have proceeded merely from 
the stimulus of its saline components, and from the carbo- 
naceous matter in a soluble state, which it is adapted to 
afford. Jt may be argued, that, as it is probable, the 
soluble carbonaceous matter afforded by completely decayed 
dung is the chief part of the food of plants, the turnips raised 
over this manure should contain more solid contents than 
those over the other manures, although their growth was less 
vigorous and luxuriant. ‘That, however, more food is supplied 
by completely decayed manure, and yet less taken into the 
system of the plant, may be equally true; for the heat afforded 
by the more recent manures being absent, the action of the 
vegetable vessels in the growing turnips would be more 
languid, and absorption and assimilation consequently less 
perfect; the presence of the stimulus of heat being as essen- 
tial as the simple supply of nutriment, for the perfection of 
the plant. That it is heat only which can be regarded as the 
agent producing the superiority of the crop of turnips, on 
the portion of the field manured with green Fern, as detailed 
in Mr. Knight’s experiment, may easily be proved by the 
thermometer, in a repetition of the experiments. Why, 
therefore, Mr. Knight may say, has the objector to my ex- 
Cc 4 


24 Green Vegetable Manure. 


planation not maintained the truth of his objections by ex- 
periments with that instrument. ] reply that, in the first 
place, my residence in town and my professional avocations, 
oppose themselves to any experimental attempt of the kind ; 
and, in the second place, that any experiments on my part 
are unnecessary, as [ admit the accuracy of Mr. Knight's ex- 
periments, and differ from him only in the conclusions which 
he has deduced from them. Our premises are the same, but 
our conclusions are at variance, and, it must remain with others 
to decide which are the most accurate, and as the discovery 
of truth is the object of both, the determination will be 
equally acceptable, whatever may be the decision. 

In the supposition that my opinions of the effects of these 
manures are correct, it would appear, that the most useful 
manure may be obtained from a mixture of completely de- 
cayed stable or fold litter, and green or fresh vegetable matter ; 
or perhaps no manure would be more efficient than green 
vegetable matter spread under the soil, and a top dressing of 
salt and soot. ‘The completely decayed manure would pro- 
duce its effect by affording soluble carbonaceous matter and 
salts as food and stimuli to the growing plants, whilst the heat 
extrcated by the fermentation of the green-vegetable manure, 
would supply a sufficiency of that principle which, in con- 
junction with air and moisture, is absolutely necessary for 
rousing into activity the vital energies latent in the seed, and 
maintaining in the future plant the proper exercise of those 
functions, which enable it to select and absorb its nutriment 
from the soil, to carry it through its system of vessels and 
glands ; to concoct and secrete, from it, its proper juices; and 
finally to assimilate it into its own peculiar living substance. 

I remain, Dear Sir, 
5 Yours faithfully, 
Antuony Topp ‘THomson. 
91. Sloane Street, 
30th November, 1825. 


Art. V. On the Life of a Jobbing Gardener. By Mr. 
ArcutBaLp M‘Naueuron, of Hackney. 


Sir, Flackney, 29th Nov. 1825. 

I am very glad to see your proposal for a Gardener’s Ma- 
gazine, for I have long thought that the gardeners should 
have an organ to represent them and instruct them, as well as 
the farmers and mechanics. I have been upwards of fifty 


Jobbing Gardener. 25 


years in the line, and was one of the first who set agoing the 
London Gardeners’ Lodge, described in your Encyclopzedia, 
though I have long since left it, from not being satisfied with 
itsmanagement. I left Edinburgh in the year 1777, and, after 
working some time in Mr. Christopher Gray’s nursery at Ful- 
ham, I got a very good place with a Mr. Rolls, a great stock- 
broker, whose affairs went wrong after I had been six years 
with him, and I was obliged to quit. After going down to 
Scotland to see my friends, I came up again and got a place 
from Mr. Hare, then aseedsman in St. James’s Street, to go 
to Mrs. Wilson at Putney, where I remained till her daughter 
married, when her husband having an aversion to Scotch ser- 
vants, I was obliged to leave. Soon after this, a fellow-work- 
man and myself attempted to set up a small nursery at Epsom, 
part of which is now occupied by Mr. Young of that place; 
but, after struggling hard for little more than two years, we 
were obliged to give up, after losing all we had saved, and 
about 50/., which my partner had borrowed from his aunt at 
Kinross, and which preyed so upon his mind, that I verily 
believe it was the cause of his death, which happened about a 
year afterwards at Windsor; where he got into a small place 
to look after a garden, and some fields in which vegetables 
were grown for sale. 

Not liking to go into servitude again, I began jobbing on 
my own account, and a poor business I have found it ever 
since. When I first began, the highest wages I could get 
were 3s. a day, and obliged to find my own tools. I had a 
good deal of employment at first, partly from the circumstance 
of being a Scotchman, being called by the people who employ 
jobbers, a professed gardener. My wife also took up a green- 
grocer’s shop about this time, and we did very well till we lost 
our only daughter, which obliged us to take in a maid-servant, 
who let in some fellows into the house one Sunday afternoon 
when we were at chapel, and took away all my savings, most 
of my wife’s clothes, and concealed the bedding in an out- 
house, to be taken away no doubt at night. ‘The maid was never 
seen again, and we never could hear any thing of the thieves. 
We now left Camberwell altogether, and both my wife and I 
took a situation in a small family near Hammersmith, where 
my wife was cook, and I had a man under me for the garden 
and for looking after a horse and chaise. ‘This place did not 
suit, and I advertised for another, and got one in a large board- 
ing-school, which was worse, as my wife was expected to look 
after the milk of two cows, and I was obliged to assist in brew- 
ing. After doing nothing for some time, I began the jobbing 
again at Paddington, and my wife took in washing; but she 


1 


26 Jobbing Gardener. 


falling ili, we removed te Hackney, on account of the air, 
where I have been ever since, being just able to gain a liveli- 
hood, by laying out the gardens for the new buildings going 
on in the neighbourhood. I have often been advised to take 
up a public-house; but besides that my wife is against it as 
considering it beneath the dignity of her family, I consider 
that it would be degrading the profession to which I belong if 
I were to become a publican. 

Having now, Sir, given you a short history of my life, you 
will see what a very poor business a gardener’s is, and especially 
a jobbing gardener’s. When I first began it, I was preferred 
as being considered a regular gardener; but now a labourer 
who has, perhaps, worked a year or two with some market- 
gardener is just as much employed, and as well paid as myself; 
it is true, I have hurt myself much by going into the jobbing 
line; but what led to that was my vain ambition of being a 
nurseryman, without having the means. I need not say any 
thing of the prospects of an old man near 70; my wife is 
dead, and if the disease which shall carry me off be a lingering 
one, I have no other prospect than the workhouse. If you 
think my letter worthy of a place in your Magazine, I hope it 
will be a warning to gardeners when they are in good situa- 
tions to keep in them, and not let discontent or ambition prey 
on their minds so as to make them leave their places for little 
faults ; and, especially, not to Jet them give up the condition 
of servitude for the very uncertain one of being in business for 
one’s self. And, especially, let them never give up any place 
whatever for the condition of a jobbing gardener, for that is 
greater slavery than being a common labourer. 

Iam, Sir, your most obedient servant, 
Arcup. M‘Naucuton, 


| 


Art. VI. On Cultivating a Collection of Grasses in Pleasure- 
grounds or Flower-gardens. By Mr. GrorcGe SINCLAIR, 
F.L.S., H.S., &c. Nurseryman, Author of Hortus Gra- 


mineus Woburnensis. 


Dear Sir, 

A coLLEcTion of the different species of grasses arranged in 
a distinct compartment of the pleasure-ground or flower-gar- 
den will be found to constitute one of its most interesting fea- 
tures. It has been justly observed by Sir James Edward 
Smith in his English Flora, that the grasses afford more sus- 
tenance to man and to the larger animals than all the rest of 
the vegetable kingdom together ; their herbage so perpetually 


Ornamental Grass Gardens. 27 


springing, and so tenacious of life, accommodated in one in- 
stance or other to almost every climate, soil, and situation, 
affords to nature her most welcome clothing, and to the culti- 
vator of the soil his chief riches. Nothing poisonous or inju- 
rious is found among them. Their farinaceous seed supplies 
man with the staff of life; in wheat, barley, rice, oats, maize, 
Holcus spicatus, Holcus cernuus, and in Poa abysinnica. The 
Cynosurus cristatus, which supplies a most valuable herbage for 
pasture, has culms too fibrous and wiry to be eaten by cattle ; 
yet these sustain the seed of the plant until winter, and when 
the snow covers and conceals every other kind of food, these 
supply the smaller and even several of the larger birds with 
the means of existence. 

The grasses constitute one of the most perfect natural 
orders of plants, and although humble, and until lately, over- 
looked by the general observer, consist of upwards of a thou- 
sand pertectly distinct species, distinguished from each other 
by their specific botanical characters, by the difference which 
exists in the proportions of the constituents of the nutritive 
matter afforded by each, by the different periods at which 
their produce attains to perfection, and by the peculiar soils 
and situations to which the different species are adapted. 
The observation of these habits and properties, as they pre- 
sent themselves in the progress of growth of the plants, will 
be found to afford more amusing variety, and perhaps useful 
and instructive occupation of time, than can be obtained from 
the cultivation of any other distinct family of plants whatever. 

The flowers of the grasses are perfect, and are remarkable 
for the simplicity and elegance which pervades their whole 
structure; they will be found to want only examination to 
excite our admiration that so slender’ and simple a structure 
should be productive of such important ends, and capable of 
receiving upwards of a thousand clear specific shades of 
variation without in the least affecting its primary essential 
family character. 

As an example of the truth and beauty of the natural orders 
of plants, the grasses afford the best illustration to the young 
botanist. 

In the botanical investigation of the different species, a 
high interest is kept up from a consideration of the various 
properties and separate habits peculiar to each individual 
species, yet all tending to one great and important end—the 
support of animal life; from the moth which lives on the Way 
bennet (Hordeum murinum) to man himself, who, from 
many species, draws support directly, and, in remote con- 
sequences, from the whole tribe. Park in his travels, (Vol. 1. 


28 Ornamental Grass Gardens. 


pp-63 — 75.), informs us that the Holcus spicatus and Holcus 
cernuus were cultivated largely in Africa by the natives, for the 
like purposes as wheat and barley are in Europe. The Poa 
abyssinica has a very small seed, and yet, as Bruce informs 
us, it is cultivated extensively in Abyssinia for the manufac- 
ture of bread, (teff.) The annual species of grass have larger 
and heavier seeds than those which are perennial, and the 
creeping rooted species have lighter, and in general, less fer- 
tile seeds than the fibrous rooted. The creeping roots of 
the common couch grass (Triticum repens) contain a large 
quantity of nutritive matter; in its composition or properties 
approaching nearer to that of corn, than the nutritive matter 
afforded by the herbage of any of the other grasses. On the 
continent, particularly at Naples, these roots are regularly 
sent to market, and are there highly esteemed for the food 
of horses. The writer of this had some of these roots for ex- 
amination sent from Naples, they proved to contain more 
nutritive matter than the roots of English growth. Dogs 
eat the leaves of this species of grass as well as those of the 
Holcus avenaceus, to excite vomiting. 

The farinaceous seeds of the annual grasses supply man with 
the staff of life, and the herbage of the perennial species afford 
to the more valuable domestic animals, that constant supply 
of essential food without which they could not exist in any 
considerable number, or for any length of time, much less be 
brought to furnish us with the most important articles of 
clothing, and some of the most important parts of food ; 
meat, milk, butter, and cheese; wool, and leather, with all the 
concomitant advantages, such as labour, manure, &c. which 
result to the cultivator of the soil from the use of cattle, 
would be lost without the cultivation of the perennial grasses. 

The nutritive powers of the different species of pasture or 
hay grasses are found to be in direct proportion to the quan- 
tity of saccharine, mucilaginous, albuminous, bitter extractive, 
and saline matters which each affords. 

Not two species of grasses are found to agree in the pro- 
portions of these vegetable principles contained in each; as 
instances, the Elymus arenarius affords the largest proportion 
of sugar, the Poa compressa, var. erecta, consists almost of 
pure mucilage, and the Festuca pennata, or Holcus avenaceus, 
&c., a greater proportion of bitter, extractive, and saline 
inatiers. 

There are but few species which attain their height of pro- 
duce at the same period of the season, consequently, scarcely a 
month occurs which is not the season of some particular species 
attaining its perfection of growth: and here, it may be ob- 


Washing Salads. 29 


served, that a grass-garden, where a number of different 
species of grasses are arranged side by side, illustrates this 
important point in the economy of the grasses in a clear and 
interesting manner. It is from this property of the natural 
grasses, connected with a combination of a considerable num- 
ber of different species, which are always found in the most 
rich or fattening pastures, that the great supericrity of these 
over artificial pastures, or of such as are formed of one or two 
species only, chiefly arises; and hence it is that the former, 
whether formed by nature in the course of many years, or by 
art in one, (by sowing the seeds of all the essential species, or 
by stocking the suil at once with a sufficiency of these plants, 
precluding thereby the introduction of spurious grasses or 
weeds,) are productive cf a perpetual verdure and supply of 
fresh herbage unknown in artificial pastures, consisting of one 


or two species of plants only. 
(Te be continued. ) 


Art. VII. Of the best Mode of Washing Water Cresses and 
other Salads so as to free them from the Larve of Insects, 
and Worms. By Mr. JamMEs Simson, Gardener, Mussele 
burgh, near Edinburgh. 


SIR, 

I RECEIVED your letter with a prospectus of the Gardener’s 
Magazine, which work I think will be very useful to us here, 
who know little of what is going on in the gardens about Lon- 
don. I amsorry you did not mention some subject that you 
wanted me to write about, as I do not know what to fix on; 
however, as you say you must have all your papers for the first 
number by the end of this month, the enly thing I can think 
of is to send you some remarks on the water cresses, and other 
winter salads, such as brooklime, scurvy grass, American 
cress, &c. 

T understand there has been something written on the cui- 
ture of the water cress in the transactions of the London 
Horticultural Society. I have net seen these transactions, 
though my master got me to cultivate the cress in consequence 
of somebody’s telling him how it was described in them. We 
grow them in a small pond behind the melon ground in the 
slip, and only round the margin of the pond; but what I have 
principally to communicate does not concern the growing but 
the gathering. After these cresses had been served up to 
breakfast for several weeks, it happened one morning that a 


30 Washing Salads. 


young lady who was on a visit from Edinburgh, observed 
something clear and glutinous, like small snails, fixed on the 
backs of the leaves of the cresses; some said they were young 
water snails; others that they were young horse leaches, and 
some took them for the eggs of worms. However that may 
be, the whole family were disgusted with them, and it was 
ordered that no more should be brought to table than what 
were gathered in a running stream. Some days afterwards, I 
collected some from the tail-dam of Lasswade mill; but en 
inspecting them it was found that there was also a white gelati- 
nous substance that would not come off with common washing, 
attached to the back of some of the leaves. There was now a 
good deal of alarm, especially as a young woman who worked in 
the garden, and had been in the habit of serving the kitchen 
and gathering the cresses, was troubled with a swelling in her 
stomach, accompanied with occasional loathing of food. This 
alarm perhaps would not have taken place, had not a poor 
woman in the village about a year ago, after being ill for a 
long time with a stomach complaint, at last one morning 
vomited up a small bag of caterpillars, which are supposed to 
have hatched in her stomach from eggs, attached to some 
vegetable that she had eaten. It now became a serious matter 
to know how to wash water cresses, and my master talked of 
asking Doctor ——— who belongs to the London Horticul- 
tural Society, to write to the Secretary to know how they 
washed them there. However this was not done, and it oc- 
curred to me to ask some of the women who gather cresses 
and brook-lime from the burns about Edinburgh, and call them 
through the town, how they did. I found they were not very 
particular in washing them, and had never heard of, or seen 
any thing like snails or vermin on the backs of the leaves. From 
this I concluded that there was no danger in eating these things, 
whatever they might be. The idea, however, was very unplea- 
sant, and any that were sent up to table afterwards were care- 
fully brushed with a cellery brush by the butler. But this was 
too much trouble to be continued for any length of time. The 
cook thought of washing them with ashes, which she said she 
knew would kill mites in cheese. I thought of lime water, which 
I knew would kill snails and worms, but on these plans being 
mentioned by my master to Mr. Brown of Dalkeith, he suggest- 
ed the idea of having a tub of salt water from the sea, and steep- 
ing them a few minutes in that. We immediately adopted his 
advice, and succeeded perfectly in detaching every thing of 
the animal kind from the leaves. .My mistress was so much 
pleased with the thing that she has since had every’ kind-of 
salad washed in this way, especially such as grow close on 


Hothouse Bulbs. 81 


the ground, and are apt to have worms and slugs gathered 
with them. We have even had small red worms come out of 
cabbages and lettuce, besides green fly, and caterpillars. After 
the vegetables remain three or four minutes in the salt water 
cistern, whatever has been in them comes out, and is seen 
writhing and dying in the water just as worms come out 
of the ground and die on the surface after a watering with lime 
water. ‘The vegetables are then taken out and washed with 
fine fresh water in the usual way. 

I think this is a thing that will be considered worth knowing 
by the readers of the Gardener’s Magazine, as salt is now so 
cheap, it will cost very little, as the same water will last for 
weeks, the worms, &c. being strained*out of it. 

Iam, Sir, yours, &c. 
JAMES SIMSON. 
Musselburgh, Nov. 20th, 1825. 


Arr. VIII. On the Cultivation of Hothouse bulbous-rooted 
Plants. By Mr. Roserr Sweet, F.L.S. Author of the 
Botanical Cultivator, Cistineae, and other works. 


Or all the genera of hothouse bulbs, that are cultivated in 
our gardens, none can vie with the beautiful genus AMARYLLIS, 
of which there ave now numerous species, and also a great 
number of hybrid or mule productions in our collections, 
some or other of which are producing their splendid flowers 
all the year through. ‘The mule plants are in general more 
hardy, and flower more readily than the original species, which 
makes them very desirable. In the nursery of Mr. Colvill, 
a great quantity of hybrid productions have been raised from 
seeds, and several hundreds of them were in flower all through 
last winter and spring, which was occasioned by the follow- 
ing method : — they had been grown in frames and pits all ~ 
the summer; and in autumn, when it became time to remove 
them to the hothouse, they were taken out of the pots, and 
the mould was all shook clean from their roots; they were 
then laid on shelves in the house, and as the leaves and roots 
began to decay, they were cleared away, that they might not 
injure the bulbs. As soon as the bulbs became dry and hard, 
some of them began to show flower, and others continued to 
do so all the winter and spring, seldom being less than a 
hundred, sometimes two or three hundred in flower together, 
when scarcely any other plant was in bloom. As soon as they, 
show for bloom they should be potted, and the sooner the 
better, as they draw up weak, and do not flower so well, if 


32 Hothouse Bulbs. 


allowed to remain too long after showing bloom; as soon as 
otted they must be placed in the hothouse, giving them but 
ittle water at first, but as the pots get filled with roots they 
will require a greater supply. ‘The sorts that succeed best in 
turning out are A. 7egin@e, Johnsont, crocata, acuminata, rutila, 
fulgida, psittacina, and vittata, and all the hybrids that have 
been produced from them. <A. aulica, calyptrata, solandre- 
flora, and reticulata, do not like turning out so well, as it is 
their nature to continue growing all the year through, and 
the hybrid productions from those partake of the nature of 
their parents. They only require to be kept dry a consider- 
able time in their pots to make them flower, except any get 
sickly, or the mould gets sodden in their pots; they should 
then be laid by to dry for a considerable time, or they will be 
apt to rot. By laying the bulbs to dry in this way, a far 
greater number may be grown than could by any other 
means, as by their being laid to dry on shelves, other plants 
can be grown in the space that they would occupy if kept in 
pots. A. ve¢éculata and striatifolia succeed best in light turfy 
loam, mixed with sand; all the other sorts we find grow 
more freely in about one half light turfy loam, rather more 
than a third of white sand, and the rest turfy peat; tne use 
of the turfy soil is to keep it from binding or getting hard in 
the pots, which it will do if sifted fine; the fibres in the turfy 
soil also keep it open, that the roots may pass readily through 
it; the pots must also be well drained with potsherds, that 
the moisture may pass off readily, as 1 thing injures bulbs 
so much as to be sodden in the pots; the roots are also very 
fond of running amongst the small potsherds. It is a very 
bad plan that is generally adopted of placing _ piece of flat 
tile or potsherd over the hole at the bottom of the pot, for 
by that means, by continual watering, the hole gets as firmly 
closed as if corked up, and the water remains in the pot, sod- 
dening and souring the mould, and very often occasions the 
plant to rot. The better way is to lay a hollow piece of pot- 
sherd about halfway over the hole, then to lay another piece 
or two against it, and to fill up all round with a handful or 
two of potskerds broken small, according to the size of the 
pot. 

Seeds of this genus, as well as most other bulbs, should 
be sown as soon as ripe, and wher the young plants are a 
few inches high, they must be potted off, either singly or se- 
veral in one pot; if a hotbed frame be ready to receive them, 
all the better, as they will grow much faster in frames than in 
the house; as soon as their pots are filled with roots, shift 
them into larger ones, giving them three or four shifts in the 


e 


Hothouse Bulbs. 33 


course of the summer; they will then grow rapidly, and many 
will flower at twelve months old, particularly any mules from 
A. reticulata or striatifolia. 

As the different species of Crinum and Pancratium con- 
tinue growing at all seasons of the year, they will succeed 
better to be kept in pots continually, only shifting them oc- 
casionally into larger ones, as the others become filled with 
roots, for the more room the roots have to run, the finer the 
flowers will ke; and Crinum amabile, if grown in a sarge pot 
or tub, will produce its magnificent and fragrant flo wers four 
times every year. They will all require occasionally to have 
the mould all shook from the roots, and the suckers taken off, 
or otherwise they will become unmanageable. As they are of 
stronger and more vigorous growth than Amaryllis, they will 
require rather a stronger soil; some good rich loam, mixed 
with nearly a third of sand, and a little peat to keep it open, 
is the best soil for the different species, also being careful to 
have the pots welt drained with potsherds; and if any bulb 
should chance to be getting rotten, or have lost its roots, it 
must be dried in the way recommended for Amaryllis. Any 
young plants that are wanted to grow fast, should also be 
placed in a hotbed frame or pit in summer, and as soon as 
one pot is filled with roots, it should be shifted into a larger 
one; by that means they will soon become flowering plants. 

Hamantuus multifiorus is a tender stove bulb, which re- 
quires a great heat, and particular care to grow and fiower it 
well; the same soil as recommended for Amaryllis is suitable 
to it, and bulbs that are fresh imported should be potted and 
placed in a hotbed frame, but they will require very little 
water until they have made fresh roots; they will then need 
a frequent supply, but they will always require a warm situ- 
ation in the hothouse, and care must be taken not to water 
them over the leaves, as it very frequently gets into their 
hearts and rots them; one reason, we believe, of their gene- 
rally surviving so short a time in most collections, which is 
the more to be regretted, as they are splendid flowering plants. 


Ant. IX. Historical Notice of the Present de Malines Pear. 
By Jouw Brappick, Esq., F.H.S., of Boughton Mount, 
Kent. 

Dear Sir, 

Iv was not till this day that your Prospectus of the Gar- 
dener’s Magazine reached me. I am happy to find that such 
a work is undertaken by you, in whose hands I am sure that 

Vou. I. No. 1. D 


B34 Present de Malines Pear. 


it will be ably conducted. For the information of our horti- 
cultural brethren, to be inserted in your new Magazine, I 
herewith send you an account of a new pear, with four speci- 
mens of the fruit, which I beg that you will taste and report 
upon as your judgement shall direct. ‘The history of this 
pear is as follows: — The late Count Coloma, of Malines, 
amused himself in raising new varieties of the pear, by im- 
impregnating the blossom, &c.; the idea of so doing first 
struck him near fifty years ago, as he informed me, on his 
reading the works of the English author, Bradley. During 
five years that I annually visited the continent, for the pur- 
pose of collecting buds of new fruits, I used every year to 
receive buds from the count’s garden; several of those had 
fruited, and were named by him; many others, although con- 
sidered as children of promise, had not fruited, and were, in 
consequence, without names ; amongst the latter was a cutting, 
containing buds of the pear now sent to you; one of these 
buds I inserted into the bearing branch of a pear tree growing 
against a N. W. wall in my garden, at my late residence in 
Surrey, which bud produced fruit in two years after its in- 
sertion. This fruit was exhibited at a meeting of the Hor- 
ticultural Society, and was pronounced by those gentlemen to 
be good. I wrote to Mr. Louis Stoffels, corresponding mem- 
ber of the Horticultural Society in the city of Malines, de- 
scribing the pear, and requesting him to trace out the name 
of it: in reply to my letter, Mr. Stoffells stated that the 
Count Coloma’s garden was sold, and his collection of fruit 
trees dispersed, so that no further information could be gained 
of the pear in that quarter. To this he added, that it was the 
wish of the Count’s friends that the pear in question should 
be called Present de Malines, by which name it is mentioned in 
the Horticultural Society’s transactions, and under this name I 
gave buds of it to Mr. Young, nurseryman of Epsom, and some 
others. Upon removing my collection of fruit trees last year 
from Thames Ditton, in Surrey, to this place, I brought with 
me a young standard tree of the Present de Malines, and 
planted it, together with the Seckle, Urbaniste, Poire d’ Ananas, 
Passe Colmar, Napoleon, Marie Louise, Beurré, and many 
other new fruits, in an exposed situation, on part of Cox- 
heath. ‘This I did for the purpose of trying if those su- 
perior fruits would ripen on standard trees in the climate of 
England: ali the trees appear to like the soil and situation, 
and the Present de Malines bore seven fruit this year, four of 
which I now send to you, and suggest, if you should find the 
fruit, upon tasting, to be of a quality that will warrant the 
measure, that you recommend this tree as a standard to be 
planted in the southern parts of Engiand and Ireland; as an 


Present de Malines Pear. 36 


espalier in the midland parts of those countries; and against 

a wall in Scotland, and the remaining part of the other two 

countries. To this, I think, that you may safely add, that 

this fruit will prove a valuable acquisition to our national stock 

of pears. The tree is clean, healthy, and vigorous in growth, 

falls early into fruit, and promises to bear abundantly. 
Respectfully I am, 


Dear Sir, 
Boughton Mount, Your most obedient servant, 
30th Nov. 1825. Joun Brappick. 


Note.— We received the fruit, which have a good deal of the 
Bonchrétien shape, large at one end, smooth, and every where 
of a beautiful yellow colour: one specimen ( fig. 5.), we tasted 


ourselves, and the others we sent to three eminent fruiterers. It 

is agreed that they are of most excellent quality, melting, and 

of a rich musky flavour. Mr. Grange, one of our first fruit- 
D2 


36 West's St. Peter Grape. 


erers, knows the pear, calls it a melting Bonchrétien, a good 
bearer, and excellent keeper. Mr. Cooke’s opinion is to the 
same effect. 

It is amusing to hear of the Standard Napoleon being planted 
on Coxheath, a spot where, during the war, the flower of the 
British army were assembled to prevent such a result. Mr. Brad- 
dick has purchased a very fine estate in that neighbourhood, 
which he is improving on an extensive scale, and introducing 
there, and, wherever he has an opportunity, the most improved 
varieties of hardy fruits. To this subject he has been devoted 
for many years, and, perhaps, no man living has originated 
from seed, or imported from France and America a greater 
number of excellent sorts. At Boughton, Mr. Braddick is 
his own architect, agronome, and gardener, and we should 
be most happy to receive some account of the many oper- 
ations he has now going forward in building and planting.— 
ConD. 


Art. X. On the Cultivation of the Grape known as West's St. 
Peter, as practised at Spring Grove: By Mr. Isaac Oxp- 
acre, F.H.S., gardener to the Emperor of Russia. 


Wesr’s St. Peter grape is acknowledged by all who have 
seen it at Spring Grove to be the finest and best late grape 
yet cultivated in this country ; and although it has been long 
in England it is but little known amongst horticulturists. 
I am not acquainted with its having been cultivated in the 
neighbourhood of London before I planted two vines of it 
at Spring Grove in the year 1818. It has made such rapid 
progress in its growth and fruit bearing, that I hope a short 
history of it in your Gardener’s Magazine may be of no small 
interest to the lovers and cultivators of grapes in general, as, if 
they adhere to the few hints here given, they may have grapes 
all the winter months, as plentiful and as fine as at any time 

in summer. 

I begin every year to force this grape in the middle of April, 
and keep the heat of the house where it grows as near sixty- 
five degrees fire heat, by Fahrenheit’s thermometer, as I 
can until thesummer months. This grape requires more heat 
to bring it to maturity than the Hamburgh, or any ‘of the 
earlier kinds I am acquainted with. The fruit with me begins 
to change colour in August. When the weather is wet or cold 
at this season I make a little fire at nights, so as to keep the 
house at sixty degrees fire heat until the fruit becomes quite 
black, which is sometimes in the middle, and sometimes in 


Heat, Moisture, and Evaporation. 37 


the end of November, when I reduce it to temperate, and so 
keep it till I have cut all the grapes. This in some years is 
the beginning, and some years the end of March. The Poo- 
nah grape I keep till April, with the leaves on as if in sum- 
mer. 

The wood of West’s St. Peter is round, of a brown colour, 
short jointed, eyes prominent, leaves rather small, and flat, 
smooth, and shining underneath, deeply serrated; they turn 
to a purple colour as the fruit becomes black. The vine grows 
freely, and is a great bearer; the bunches at first showing are 
small, and apparently weak, but gradually advance until they 
become long with large shoulders. The blossom sets freely, 
the berries are round, and grow of an even size, and if well 
thinned they soon become large. When ripe, the grape is of a 
very black colour, the skin thin, with small seeds, very juicy, 
and high flavoured. 

_There is another St. Peter grape which is known to most 
experienced gardeners, but is very different from the one 
above mentioned ; the leaves of this old variety are very downy 
or woolly underneath, the edges turn downward, the berries 
are oval, and the wood long-jointed, that is, with great dis- 
tances between the buds. 

Spring Grove, 5th December, 1825. 


Art. XI. On the Relations of Heat, Moisture, and Eva- 
poration in Natural and Artificial Atmospheres. By 'THomas 
TrEDGOLD, Esq., Civil Engineer. 


THE. constitution of the atmosphere has a most important 
influence on the growth of plants, and particularly its rela- 
tion to moisture. ‘Till within these few years the variable 
state of the moisture in the air was not: registered with any 
degree of accuracy; and, chiefly, from the want of proper 
instruments. A variety of contrivances have been, from time 
to time, invented for ascertaining the quantity of moisture in 
the air, but none of them are so perfect as it is desirable to 
render them. The well-known expansion and contraction of 
both vegetable and animal substances, by the effect of moisture, 
has been tried in several ways; but since there is no probabi- 
lity that the change of bulk is exactly proportional to the 
change in the quantity of moisture, these methods are not in 
much esteem. The increase and decrease of weight from 
moisture is objectionable for the same reason. . 

There are two methods, however, which give accurate re- 
sults, though they are not quite so easily applied as the principle 

D3 


38 Heat, Moisture, and Evaporation. 


of expansion and contraction, and certainly not so well adapted 
for common observation. The one was first tried by Dr. 
James Hutton, and consists in observing the temperature as 
reduced by evaporation. Thus the bulb of a thermometer, 
being covered with muslin, and moistened with water, it 
causes the thermometer to sink a number of degrees corre- 
sponding to the state of the air in respect to moisture. In 
principle it is a simple and elegant method, in practice not so 
precise as the method next to 2 described. 

When air is cooled below a certain temperature, it deposits 
part of the moisture it contains in the form of dew. Now 
when air deposits dew it is saturated with moisture, therefore, 
air always contains that quantity of moisture which would sa- 
turate the same quantity of air when its temperature is reduced 
down to the dewing point or temperature at which it deposits 
dew. Butif abody cooled down to the temperature of the dew 
point be presented to a mass of air, dew is deposited on its 
surface; hence it only requires the combination of a thermo- 
meter, with a means of reducing the bedy containing it to such 
a degree of cold that dew deposits, to have an accurate means 
of determining the dew point; and, consequently, the quantity 
of moisture in the air. 

A most ingenious instrument has been contrived on this 
principle by Mr. Daniell, and it has lately been slightly im- 
proved by Mr. Jones of Charing Cross. These instruments 
are, however, rather too delicate and troublesome for ordinary 
use, and something more simple seems to be desirable. ‘The 
state of an artificial atmosphere, in regard to moisture may, 
perhaps, be most satisfactorily obtained by measuring the real 
quantity of evaporation, it being the excess or the deficiency 
of this quantity that affects the health of plants; and the 
evaporation in a given time is nearly proportional to the dif- 
ference between the quantity that would saturate the air and 
the quantity it actually contains. 

In order that the quantity evaporated in a given time ma 
be sufficiently measurable, a proper surface should be exposed to 
the air in a cylindrical vessel, having vertical sides (fig. 6.) ; and 


a tube of smaller diameter might be added, into which the water 
may be changed to measure the quantity evaporated. If the 
diameter of the cylindrical vessel be 1°58 inches, and that of 
the tube half an inch, then each tenth of an inch in the cylin- 
der will occupy an inch in the tube; and as the mean evapo- 


Heat, Moisture, and Evaporation. 39 


ration in our climate will then be equal to about one-fifth of an 
inch in the tube in twelve hours, this quantity might be made 
the unit on the scale; and the whole would be evaporated in 
fifty hours in the mean state of the air. 

Place the tube in a perpendicular position, and fill it to zero ; 
then place it with the tube horizontally as in the figure. When 
it is desired to know the quantity, which has been evaporated, 
invert the remaining portion from the cup to the tube, and 
the place of its surface in the tube will mdicate the quantity 
evaporated. ‘The lower part of the cup ought to contain as 
much water as fills the tube to zero. 

This instrument will faithfully indicate the power with whic) 
the air is abstracting moisture from plants ; it is a little trouble- 
some in use, but not more so than the hygrometers, which 
indicate with equal accuracy. 

The ordinary state of the atmosphere,with respect to moisture 
in this country, is extremely variable; but the mean result of 
many observations, of both the thermometer and the dew point, 
shows that the temperature of deposition and the actual temper- 
ature, follow each other in a regular manner. ‘The difference 
between the actual temperature and that of the dew point is 
least in January, and gradually increases till June, when it 
again declines to its winter state. Mr. Daniell has observed 
these phenomena with much attention, and has given the results 
for three years. ‘The mean of these observations is shown in the 
small tablet (fig. 7.), where the upper shaded line shows the 


| 
a : fea gi | [a a 
u : a SJET LJ LL LIL LY 
oe |—| ol ia Z ia a il iE 
ti AA | Oo | 
a ; 
Bi a Y) LN | Na BO a Ba 
ee ! SW | 
MH N 
Grieeeeneiber_cAlUOPcgtletteoeso va, Waatitbeeapae 
Si Ss Z = Mean \Te 
= = a SS i = y 
a AWN | A/S 
2 x . Sipe 
t - SS A Dew Point: 
B a a BSS a 44/5 
|_| SS a 
| L, LTS EI fo ES 
YA SN 
. ISSN 
ui a Nw 
at 


40 Heat, Moisture, and Evaporation. 


mean temperature, and the lower shaded line the mean temper- 
ature of the dew point. This species of tabular picture is valu- 
able, because we can so easily observe not only the whole range, 
but also the range of any particular period. From Mr. Cald- 
cleugh’s observations at Villa Rica, the mean evaporation was 
double that in this country, and the quantity of moisture in the 
air also nearly double. 

It will at once be perceived, that the progress of evaporation 
must depend on the quantity of water the air is capable of taking 
up to saturate it, and when it is perfectly saturated, evaporation 
must cease. 

Also, since a supply of heat competent to form the vapour 
produced is absolutely necessary to the process, the evaporation 
must be limited by the supply of heat, and proportional to it. 
Hence, in the progress of evaporation, there will be cold 
produced, till the difference between the temperature of the 
surface affording vapour and that of the surrounding medium 
be equivalent to produce the proper flow of heat. It must 
obviously depend on the nature of the conductors which supply 
it, but must be constant under the same circumstances; and, 
therefore, the hygrometer of Dr. Hutton is founded on true 
principles. . 

But the surface affording vapour being cooled below the 
general temperature, the quantity of moisture the air is ca- 
pable of taking up must be estimated from the temperature 
of the evaporating surface. 

In ordinary circumstances, the ultimate depression of tem- 
perature is about one degree, by an evaporation of 150 grains 
per hour, from a surface one foot square, or 2°5 grains per 
minute. 

It also appears from Mr. Dalton’s experiments (Nicholson’s 
Journal, vol. vii. p. 7.) that in a still atmosphere, where the heat 
is supplied in the quantity necessary to produce the vapour, 
the evaporation per minute, from a surface one foot in area, is 
exactly equal to twice the quantity of vapour in a cubic foot of 
saturated air of the same temperature, or 120 times that quantity 
in an hour. 

From these conditions we have the easy means of forming a 
table to exhibit the evaporation from an area of one foot of 
water at any temperature. For this purpose, I will take the 
weight of vapour which a cubic foot of dry air takes up at dif- 
ferent temperatures, when saturated, from my work on Warming 
and Ventilating, and add the columns for showing the rate of 
evaporation and temperature of the atmosphere. 

The first column shows the temperature of the evaporating 
fluid at its surface; the second column the weight of water in 
grains that would saturate a cubic foot of dry air at that tem- 


Heat, Moisture, and Evaporation. 41 


perature. The third column shows the quantity, in grains, that 
would be evaporated in one minute, ifthe air had no moisture 
‘in it; and the fourth column shows the temperature of the air 
corresponding to this degree of evaporation, when the evapor- 
ating fluid is not supplied by extraneous heat. 


Quantity evaporated 
in still air in grains, 
per minute, from’ 


Temperature of the ate 


Temperature of| Weight of vapour mosphere in which’ 


evapor:.ting in a cubic foot the evaporation takes 
ae ape of Santee 2 SHAG Ot one, place. ; | 
square foot. 
32° 23 grains. 4°6 grains. 33°8° 
35 2°5 5:0 37°0 
40 2:9 5°8 4.2°3 
45 3° 6°8 47°7 
40 4°0 8°0 53:2 
55 4°6 9:2 58°7 
60 Dei, 11:4 64°5 
65 6°9 13°8 70°5 
70 7.8 15°6 76:2 
75 9°2 18°4 82°3 
80 10°7 21°4 88°5 
85 12°3 24°6 94°8 
90 14-1 28°2 101-2 
95 16°9 33°8 108-4 
100 19:0 38°0 115 
105 21:2 4:.2°4, 122 
110 24°6 4.9°2 130 
115 28°0 56:0 137 
120 32°5 65°0 146 
125 37°4: 74:8 154 
130 42°3 84°6 163 
135 48°7 97°4: 174 
140 54°9 , 109°8 184: 


A few examples will show the application of this table. 

1. If the temperature of the air be 64°5°, then opposite 
64°5 in the fourth column we find 11:4 grains for the evapo- 
ration in a minute when the air isdry; but if it has been 
ascertained that the dew point is at 37°, look opposite 37° in 
the fourth column, and the evaporation corresponding to that 
temperature is 5 grains. ‘Take the difference between these, 
that is, 11°4—5=6:4 grains per minute will be the evapo- 
ration from a superficial foot when the temperature is 643 
and the dew point 37°. 

If the grains evaporated in a minute be divided by 600, the 
result will very nearly express the inches in depth evaporated 
in an hour, in a still atmosphere. 


4:2 Heat, Moisture, and Evaporation. 


2. In an atmosphere where the dew point is at 42°3 and 
the temperature 70°5°, required the depth of water evaporated 
per hour? This will be the difference between 13°8 and 5:8, or 
8 grains per minute. Now ¢%, is ‘0134 inches per hour, or 
a little more than 3 tenths of an inch in 24 hours. 

3. A forcing house contains 4000 cubic feet of air, and it is 
desired to know the quantity of water that would saturate it, 
the temperature being 70°. 

Opposite the temperature 70° in the first column, the 
moisture which combines with a cubic foot of air at 70° is 
7°8 grains, and 7°8 x 4000 is 31200 grains. 

4. If the ventilation of a house be 300 cubic feet per minute, 
and the dew-point of the air admitted be 32° required the 
surface of water that would maintain the dew-point of the air 
in the house at 50 when its temperature is 70°? 

When the dew-point is at 32° we find each foot of air con- 
tains 2°3 grains, and at 50° it contains 4 grains, the difference 
has therefore to be added by evaporation, but 4—2°3 is 1°7 
grains, and 300 x 1°7 is 510 grains. ‘The evaporation from 
each foot at 70° is nearly 13°8 grains, and at 50° about the 
mean between 6°8 and 7°8, or 7°3 grains, therefore 13°8—7-3 
is 6°5 grains from each foot of surface; and as we have found 
that 510 grains will be required in that time, we have the 
quantity by dividing 510 by 6°5, which is very nearly 80 feet 
of surface. 

By this time the reader will have felt that an important in- 
quiry is but slightly entered into, it requires a more complete 
table, and experiments on the evaporation from moist earth, 
leaves, &c. to render it more useful. It is not to artificial 
atmospheres alone that the investigation applies, it may be 
extended to the face of the globe, and may enable us to trace 
the effects of cultivation, of stagnant waters in confined dis- 
tricts, and the proper distribution of wood, cultivated land, 
and water which will preserve a healthy element. Men, as 
well as plants, feel the exhausting influence of dry air, or 
perish under the effect of a cold and saturated atmosphere, and 
perhaps a warm and saturated one is equally noxious. 

Those who are acquainted with the researches of Mr. 
Dalton, on evaporation, will find that his experimental ana- 
logy is abandoned, and the subject referred to those first 
principles which must be involved in the question; and I trust 
I have done sufficient to show the basis of an accurate theory. 

Mr. Dalton’s analogy gives nearly true results in low 
temperatures, but in high ones it is very erroneous ; besides 
not accounting for the well known depression of temperature 
which must take place where the heat is not supplied from an 
artificial source. 


43 


Art. XII. On the Cultivation of Vines in the open Air in 
Great Britain. By R. A. Saissury, Esq., F.R.S., L.S., 
H.S., &c. 


Many years ago, the writer of this paper had an extensive 
range of glass-houses, built chiefly for the cultivation of exotic 
trees and plants, half of which being removed into the open air 
for seven months, the rafters were devoted to training vines 
along them; and the climate being cold and soil unfavourable, 
namely, one of the more barren districts of Yorkshire, some of 
the grapes never ripened well, no artificial heat being given, as 
a far more abundant supply than was wanted, ripened in 
his other frames and hothouses. A very large brick build- 
ing adjoining this range of glass was covered entirely with a 
single vine of the miller’s grape, and as it was ornamental to 
the building, it was pruned and trained yearly, at no trifling 
expence, though it very seldom ripened twenty bunches out of 
from 1000 to 2000, which it annually hore. 

A Scotch nobleman, who often visited the place, one autumn 
made the following remark, and, I believe, nearly in the fol- 
lowing words: — “* When I was a young lad, I remember 
eating ripe grapes from a vine in the open air near Stirling 
Castle, which was brought to ripen half its crop in most sum- 
mers, and a whole crop in warmer summers, by the following 
treatment: —On the 20th of September prune the vine as 
you would in the month of December, taking off all the leaves 
and grapes, ripe or unripe, and shortening all the branches to 
1, 2, or 3 eyes at most. The following spring it will push 
its buds a few days before any neighbouring vines pruned in 
winter. ‘Train it as carefully all summer as if you was cer- 
tain it would ripen its crop of fruit. Pursue the same system 
annually, pruning the tree always between the 20th and 30th 
of September, and in the course of seven years, you will be 
rewarded for your patience and expence, with half a ripe crop 
in most summers, and a whole ripe crop in warm summers.” 

This mode of treatment was immediately begun in his lord- 
ship’s presence, and five years afterwards some excellent wine 
was made from the grapes. 

The only remarks I have to add to your intelligent readers, 
are 

Ist, That sage prince of gardeners, as Linné called him, 
Philip Miller, informs us, that if the vineyards in the north of 
France are neglected, it takes seven years’ careful pruning and 
proper treatment to make them ripen their crops of fruit. 

2dly, The experienced president of the Horticultural So- 
ciety has found that all vegetables, which require to be left 
in a state of inactivity during winter, vegetate sooner in spring, 


4 Huntingdon Willow. 


if that state of inactivity is brought on sooner in autumn ; 
hence, though the winter of 1824-5, was so mild, that a small 
leaved myrtle and geranium zonale survived in the open air in 
the court of the writer of this paper near Bryanstone Square, 
the spring flowering plants and shrubs, and even the almond 
trees, blossomed remarkably late, considering the temperature 
of the season; and what is still more to the point, he observed 
winter aconites and crocuses in blossom from north of the 
river Trent so far as York, where the winter had not been so 
mild as in the southern counties, but several days of continued 
frost and snow had occurred; those flowers, with the mezereon 
being much more advanced than in the gardens and nurseries 
about London, which were visited the day before he left Lon- 
don. 

3dly, To any person, who wishes to pursue this mode of 
hastening the maturity of grapes, north of Stamford in Lincoln- 
shire, he recommends the cultivation of the miller’s or Bur- 
gundy grape exclusively; for he has found it unaffected by 
smart frost, when the shoots of the muscadine and sweet water 
were injured; and this is easily and physically accounted for 
by the very thick wool of its young shoots. 

4thly, Inthe more southern counties, where many varieties 
of grapes ripen better, still an attention to the practice now re- 
commended will ensure a superior flavoured crop, and some of the 
very best Grisly Frontiniacs, he ever tasted, were produced in 
the late Earl of Tankerville’s garden, at Walton upon Thames, 
when under the care of Mr. John Dudgeon, who afterwards 


lived with Dr. Fothergill. 


Art. XIII. On the Culture of the Huntingdon Willow, Salix 
alba, as a Timber Tree. By Mr. Arcuipatp Gorrie, 
C.H.S., &c. of Annat Garden, Perthshire. 


THERE are few subjects connected with rural economy of 
more national importance, or more generally interesting than 
the rearing of timber. The purposes to which the propelling 
power of steam has been recently applied in navigation, and 
as an auxiliary in many of the arts, together with the immense 
quantities of coal used for furnishing gas in great towns, have 
produced a rise in the price of coal of from 15 to 20 per cent 
within the last twelve months; a demand in many places for 
brushwood to be used as fuel, with a corresponding rise in 
price, has been the consequence; a demand, which in many 
districts, the state of plantations is but ill calculated to meet. 
The present demand for timber also, for ship-building, and for 


FAluntingdon Willow. © AS 


improvements going forward in the island, is unprecedented ; 
consequently wood of every description is becoming every day 
more valuable. 

When a man of wealth employs his capital in any ordinary 
speculation, or in any of the joint stock schemes of the day, he 
calculates on an early return; but he who lays out his money 
in the rearing of timber, has no stimulus but the interest he 
may have in the soil, or in the welfare of posterity. Hence, 
where we see an estate that is likely to descend by entail to an 
heir at law of a distant relationship, we find that the operation 
of planting is seldom engaged in to any great extent, unless it 
be with a view to burden that estate with a proportion of the 
expence on such improvements, in favour of nearer or dearer 
collateral branches of the family; and wherever we see the 
operation of planting entered into under such circumstances, 
the future management of the plants is too frequently neglected. 

There are, indeed, several of our most useful trees, which 
require the lapse of ages before they arrive at a state of abso- 
lute maturity; but there are others of more rapid growth, 
which acquire considerable magnitude, within -the natural 
period of human life, and which may, in the natural course of 
events, be cut down a full grown tree, by the same hand by 
which it was planted. The most distinguished of these, and 
the one which seems most to deserve public attention, I con- 
ceive to be the Huntingdon willow, Salix alba, of English bo- 
tany, of which there are several varieties. 

The uses to which the timber of the Huntingden willow are 
applied are various. In ship bottoms it is not found so liable 
to split by any accidental shock as oak or other hard wood. It 
is found an excellent lining for stone carts, barrows,&c. In roof- 
ing, it has been known to stand an hundred years as couples, 
and with the exception of about half an inch on the outside, 
the wood has been found so fresh at the end of that period, 
as to be fit for boat-building. Its bark is used by the tanners 
and there is no tree that in the same time will yield so much 
bark for fuel, or that requires less labour in preparing it for 
the fire, where it gives out most heat when burnt in a green 
state; and to all this it may be added, that its cultivation is the 
most simple, while it will luxuriate in most soils, where other 
trees make comparatively slow progress. 

As a proof of what is stated above respecting easy culture 
and rapidity of growth, I may remark, that it is only fourteen 
years next February, since I was engaged in planting a piece 
of rising ground on the estate of Rait, on the northern bank 
of the Carse of Gowrie. The soil a dry gravel, which effer- 
vesced freely with acids, the bank formed a slope of 45° with- 


46 Huntingdon Willow. 


out sward; at the bottom runs a small rivulet on a bed of the 
same kind of gravel. The bank and higher grounds were 
planted with oaks, larch, and Scotch fir, and the sides of the 
rill with alder and Huntingdon willow. ‘The undertaking was 
by ry neighbours reckoned foolish, and I had to encounter no 
little obloquy for my presumption. The result, however, has 
been favourable, the plants on the high ground come away 
boldly, and in the hollow, which is only about 50 feet above 
the level of the sea, the Huntingdon willow has made astonish- 
ing progress ; at four feet above the ground, several of the trees 
already measure 46 inches in circumference, and in length 
from 55 to 60 feet, giving fully an inch in diameter, and tour 
feet in altitude for every year they have been in the soil. The 
plants were about four feet in length, and one-fourth of an inch 
diameter at planting. Pruning has been regularly attended to, all 
thick aspiring brariches were removed, the leading shoot and 
numerous small side shoots encouraged for the purpose of pro- 
ducing sufficient foliage to elaborate the sap. 

One peculiar advantage in the culture of this valuable plant 
is, that in planting, rooted plants are not absolutely requisite. 
I have found shoots of from six to eight feet, and about two 
inches in diameter, succeed better than rooted plants; they re- 
quire to be put from eighteen inches to two feet deep in marshy 
soil, which should be drained; the numerous roots sent out 
in such soil affords abundant nourishment, and shoots are pro- 
duced the first year more vigorous than when the plants have 
been previously rooted. 

If you think this paper worthy of a place in your “ Gar- 
dener’s Magazine,” and if it shall have the effect of turning the 
attention of any of your readers to the cultivation of a plant 
which is particularly useful, I shall feel highly gratified. 

In the mean time I shall conclude by expressing my sin- 
cerest wish for the prosperity of your present undertaking ; a 
«‘ Gardener’s Magazine” I have long considered as a desider- 
atum in the periodical literature of the day. Your other la- 
bours on rural economy I am not unacquainted with. ‘The 
talent, the zeal, and the perseverance these labours exhibit, 
produce my cheerful compliance with your request, in becom- 
ing a contributor to your Magazine. 

I am most respectfully, Sir, 
Your obedient servant, 
ARcHD. GorRIE. 
Annat Garden, Errol, 
Dec. 6th, 1825. 


47 


PAR, ei, 


REVIEWS. 


Art. I. Garden Botany. 


1. The Botanical Magazine, or Flower Garden displayed ; in 
which the most ornamental foreign Plants cultivated in the open 
Ground, the Greenhouse, and the Stove, are accurately represented 
in their natural Colours, &c. By WM. Curtis. Continued by 
Joun Sims, M.D. F.R.S. &c. &c. 1787—1826. 53 vols. 8vo. 
London. 


2. The Botanical Register, consisting of coloured Figures of 
exotic Plants, cultivated in British Gardens ; with their ENistory 
and Mode of Treatment. The designs by Sydenham Edwards, 
F.L.S. 1815—1826. Vols. I.—XI. 8vo. Ridgway, London. 


3. The Botanical Cabinet, consisting of coloured Delineations 
of Plants from all Countries, with a short Account of each, Direc- 
tions for Management, &c. &c. By ConrAv LoppiceEs & Sons. 
1817—1826. 10 vols. 4to. and 8vo. London. 


4. Exotic Flora, containing Figures and Descriptions of new, 
rare, or otherwise interesting exotic Plants, especially of such as are 
deserving of being cultivated in our Gardens, §c. By W.J. 
Hooxer, LL.D., F.R.A. & L.S. &c. &c. 29 Parts. 8vo. 1893 
—1826. 2 vols. Blackwood, Edinburgh. 


5. Geraniace, or Natural Order of Geraniums. By Rosert 
Sweet, F.L.S. 1820—1826. 6 vols. 8vo. Ridgway, London. 


_ 6. The British Flower Garden. By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. 
1822—1826. 2 vols. 8vo. Simpkin and Marshall, London. 


v s 


48 Garden Botany. 


7. Cistinee. The Natural Order of Cistus or Rock Rose. By 
Rosert Sweet, F.L.S. 3 Nos. 8vo. 1825. Ridgway, London. 


8. Flora Conspicua ; a Selection of the most ornamental, flow- 
ering, hardy, exotic, and indigenous Trees, Shrubs, and herbaceous 
Plants for embellishing Flower Gardens and Pleasure Grounds. 
By Ricuarp Morris, F.L.S. Drawn and engraved from living 
Specimens, by Wm.Ciark. 6 Nos. 8vo. 1825. Smith, Elder, 
& Co., London. 


9. The Botanic Garden ; or Magazine of hardy Flower Plants 
cultivated in Great Britain, each number containing Four coloured 
Figures. By B.Maunp. Nos. 1—7. Smali 4to. Baldwin, 
Cradock, & Joy. 


Ir is our purpose, under this head, to lay before the public, 
regularly, an analytical and critical account of such periodi- 
cal publications, upon the subject of Garden Botany, as are of 
sufficient importance to deserve attention. In order to fix a 
definite period from which our observations may be com- 
menced, we have determined to take the Ist January i826, 
the day of the birth of this Magazine; and to occupy in our 
first Number the space hereafter to be devoted to detailed cri- 
ticism, with some account of gardening throughout Europe at 
the present day, as far as it exercises any influence upon bo- 
tanical pursuits. 

France, which may be truly called the cradle of science, has 
long been celebrated for the number and importance of her 
public botanical institutions, and for the deep interest her 
government has taken in the prosecution of every department 
of Natural History. From the days of Tournefort, there has 
scarcely been an expedition of discovery undertaken, to which 
a botanist has not been attached, with ample means of prose- 
cuting his pursuits. Resident botanists and collectors have 
been placed in every colony belonging to the French govern- 
ment, whose foreign possessions have scarcely been less assi- 
duously investigated than its provinces at home. The voyages 
of Commerson, of Michaux, of Olivier, of Labillardiére, of 
Du Petit Thouars, of Léschenault, of Bory de St. Vincent, and 
of a host of other scientific travellers, and the large collections 
formed by Dombey, Aublet, and others of less note, have sup= 
plied the French botanists with stores of knowledge more 
ainple than have been possessed in almost any other country. 
The importance of these is shown by the extent of the advan- 
tage derived to the French botanists by the acquisition of 


Garden Botany. 49 


them, by the multitude of new species and genera, with which 
the publications of Jussieu, of Lamarck, and his successors, of 
Desfontaines, and more recently of Decandolle, are replete. Of 
private means applied to the prosecution of investigations in 
natural history, the expedition of Humboldt to South America 
is a splendid example. ‘The various scientific publications in 
illustration of its results, are a noble monument of the zeal, 
and knowledge, and well applied resources of the most illus- 
trious traveller now existing. The public gardens of France 
are numerous; but, with the exception of Paris and Mont- 
pellier, have not much celebrity. They are generally ill 
managed and inadequately supported. That of Montpellier, 
which has successively been under the direction of Magnol, 
Gouan, Decandolle, and Delile, all botanists celebrated in 
their day, has acquired a high degree of reputation ; the Jar- 
din des Plantes at Paris is also an establishment of great cele- 
brity, and numbers of the rarest plants have been reared with- 
in its walls: but as a botanic garden, it is inferior to some of 
other countries of Europe. 

The private gardens in France, in which botanical objects 
occupy a principal place, are many. ‘They all, however, be- 
Jong to nurserymen, or private gentlemen, who traffic in the 
produce of their gardens in order to maintain them. That of 
Cels, at Paris, is celebrated by the labours of Ventenat; Noi- 
sette, another Paris nurseryman, possesses a large collection 
of botanical rarities; and among the amateurs, the establish- 
ments of Parmentier at Enghien, of Soulange-Boudin at Fro- 
mont, and of Boursault at Paris, deserve honourable mention. 
Some efforts have lately been made to establish an horticul- 
tural society at Paris, but we know not with what success. 

Botany in Spazn, like all the other liberal sciences, may be 
said to have at present no existence in that unhappy country ; 
its professors are banished, its gardens desolate, and all that 
mighty support, which was once bestowed upon them, with- 
held, as much, perhaps, from the ignorant recklessness of the 
reigning sovereign as from the exhausted state of his treasury. 
But the time has been when Spain was the most powerful 
patroness botany ever experienced ; as the numberless scientific 
expeditions, undertaken by that country at enormous cost, and 
its splendid public gardens abundantly testify. The former 
have ever been unparalleled for the unlimited resources with 
which they have been prosecuted. Not to mention the fruit- 
less expedition of Hernandez to Mexico, in the reign of 
Philip II., which is said to have cost the large sum, for the 
time, of 50,000 crowns ; the reign of Charles III. was, beyond 

Vou. I. No. 1. E 


50 Garden Botany. 


all others, fruitful in voyages undertaken by order of the Spa- 
nish government for the purposes of instituting remarks on the 
botany and natural history of the New World. In that reign 
Joseph Celestino Mutis, the well-known correspondent of Lin- 
nus, was appointed to investigate New Grenada; John Cu- 
ellara was sent to the Philippines; Martin Sesse and others 
were commissioned to explore Mexico, and to the same ex- 
pedition was joined Vincentio Cervantes, an experienced 
gardener, who was specially provided for the purpose of 
founding a botanic garden at Mexico, now existing. To cir- 
cumnavigate the globe, and to enrich their country with the 
productions of every other part of the world, another voyage 
was carried into execution, to which Antonio Pineda, Luis 
Née, and Thaddeus Heenke, all assiduous and enterprising 
naturalists, were attached. But the best arranged, and to 
science the most important of all the Spanish expeditions, that 
of Don Hippolito Ruiz, and of Don Joseph Paven, to examine 
Chili and Peru, remains to be enumerated. ‘These celebrated 
travellers, together with Joseph Dombey, a French botanist, 
and an ample retinue of attendants, among whom were two 
draughtsmen, reached Lima in April 1778. The results of this 
famous enterprise are too well known to require repetition here. 
Suffice it to say, that the advantages which have accrued to 
botany from it have been almost without parallel, notwith- 
standing the miserable shipwreck of a large part of their col- 
lection in fifty-three cases on the coast of Portugal. ‘These 
various expeditions, exclusive of the ancient one of Hernan- 
dez, are said to have cost the Spanish government more than 

. five hundred thousand pounds. ‘The public gardens of Spain 
may be said to have received a corresponding degree of at- 
tention, but they are less known than those of other countries, 
from the little intercourse which Spain has maintained with 
the rest of Europe. At Aranjuez a famous garden was formed 
by Philip II., another at Cadiz, by Philip V., and the bo- 
tanic garden of Madrid, one of the most celebrated in 
Europe, was established by Ferdinand VI. Besides these a 
public garden was formed at Carthagena, by the orders of 
Charles ITI. 

In Germany, the various states have all considered botany an 
important part of the endowment of any university ; whence the 
number of botanical gardens in that part of Europe is very 
numerous; they are generally rich in such plants as require no 
artificial protection, but poor in stove and greenhouse plants ; 
but the gardens of Berlin and Schénbrunn are noble instances 
of perfection in all the departments of a useful and scientific 


Garden Botany. 51 


botanical collection. The last catalogue of the Berlin garden 
enumerates 5791 species, many of which arenew. At Schon- 
brunn, celebrated as the storehouse whence the Jacquins have 
for so long a time drawn their inexhaustible treasures of bo- 
tany, great additions have been making within the last year 
by the construction of new hothouses, and the inclosure of a 
larger quantity of ground. The Emperor of Austria main- 
tains botanical collectors in various distant countries. At 
the present time, Ehrenberg and Hemprich are in Egypt, 
Sellow and Olfers in Brazil, and some others at the Cape of 
Good Hope. The late King of Bavaria, at whose private 
charge Drs. Martius and Spix were for a long time occupied 
in exploring the riches of Brazil, did not cease to extend his 
patronage to them after their return, but nobly provided the 
means of making the world acquainted with the resuit of their 
discoveries, in a manner equally worthy of the monarch and 
the man of science. ‘The work on Brazilian palms, by Dr. 
Martius, is one of the most splendid and perfect botanical pro- 
ductions the world ever beheld. It is well known that the 
Prussian government, under the advice of Count Altenstein, 
has also long maintained collectors not only in Brazil, which 
seems to be a favourite country with the German princes, but 
also at the Cape of Good Hope and the Isle of France. 

The botanic gardens of Germany, which belong to private 
persons, are scarcely known, with the exception of that of 
the Prince of Salm-Dyke, which is the richest in the world 
in succulent plants, and of the brothers Baumann, nursery- 
men, at Bollwiller, whose catalogue exhibits a very consider- 
able list of plants upon sale, of all descriptions. An horti- 
cultural society, upon the plan of that of London, has lately 
been created under the auspices of the king of Prussia. 

In Russia, where the arts and sciences are just beginning 
- to appear, under the auspices of an enlightened monarch, 
50,000 silver roubles, and the Apothecaries’ Island in the 
Neva, at St. Petersburgh, have recently been appropriated to 
the construction of a national garden, for the support of 
which an ample income has been assigned, the whole being 
under the direction of Dr. Fischer, a botanist, to whom a 
high station has long since been assigned in the ranks of 
science. By this time 3000 feet of hothouses will have been 
completed, and the whole of the garden stocked with every 
kind of rare or valuable plants, collected either by gift or 
purchase, and at a vast expense, from every country in Eu- 
rope. Nor has the watchful eye of the Russian sovereign 
closed with the completion of this great work: not only has 
ample provision been made for the permanent support, on a 

E2 


52 Garden Botany. 


most liberal scale, of the establishment of the garden itself, 
but every means has been taken for securing for it a continual 
increase of botanical riches. Not one of the Russian vessels 
of discovery has sailed without a botanist and his necessary 
equipments. An expedition to Siberia, for the purpose of 
exploring the natural history of that vast and little known 
region, in all its branches, is under consideration: and an 
experienced collector, from the national garden, of the name 
of Pomortsoff, has been already dispatched to the borders of 
the Caspian sea, whence he is to examine a part of Caucasus. 
In the spring he will be at the Baical lake, which is one of 
the most interesting districts in the world, in a_ botanical 
point of view, especially the adjacent mountains of Koultak. 
It is at that point that the floras of Middle Siberia and 
Daouria unite; it is there that the curious Robinia jubata ex- 
ists, and it is in that favoured spot, and not in Kamtchatka, 
that the Lobelia Kamtchatica of Pallas is found, with many 
other plants equally beautiful and interesting. 

The minor states of Europe, Denmark, Sweden, and Hol- 
land, have amply proved themselves liberal patrons of botany. 
If their exertions have been less powerful than those of other 
states, it must be remembered that their powers have been less 
adequate to the prosecution of costly scientific expeditions. But 
the Flora Danica, and the excellent botanic garden at Copen- 
hagen, are evidence of the good dispositions of the Danish go- 
vernment. The Dutch, while they were the lords of the sea, 
were also the protectors of natural history in an eminent de- 
gree; and their once famous botanic gardens are still main- 
tained. ‘The Dutch have also a colonial garden at Batavia, 
under the direction of Dr. Blume, and a powerful and active 
patron of natural history in Baron Falk. In Sweden there is 
not an university without its public botanic garden, and its 
professors, many of whom have filled the highest ranks in 
science. Portugal has smaller claims than any other state 
upon the gratitude of the world for her efforts in the cause of 
science; yet there are public botanic gardens both at Lisbon 
and Coimbra. Jtaly has numerous botanical institutions, and 
we believe that even in the Papal states some traces of such 
establishments may still be found. 

The government of North America has shown itself not in- 
sensible to the advantages of encouraging among its subjects 
a feeling for other pursuits than those connected with mere 
mercantile speculations. Seated in a country rich beyond all 
others in stores of botanical wealth, it would have been indeed 
surprising if the study of botany had not been among the first 
of those objects which the American government felt itself bound 


Garden Botany. 53 


to patronize. Accordingly we find botanic gardens and pro- 
fessorships attached to the American universities, and expe- 
ditions fitted out for the purpose of making scientific disco- 
veries. At one time the country was chiefly known by the 
investigations of Kuropeans; but now there are the native 
names of Hosack, Elliot, Nuttall, Torrey, Barton, Bigelow, 
and others, all of which deserve honourable mention for their 
exertions in the protection or prosecution of native botanical 
investigations, and some of whom are held in high estimation 
even among Europeans. There is also a horticultural society 
established at New York. 

In Great Britain, the aid which has been given to botanical 
pursuits by the government, and especially by the wealth and 
boundless commercial resources of private persons, has been 
such as to raise the gardens of England to a far higher state 
of perfection than those of any other part of Europe. We 
cannot say that the few expeditions undertaken with the im- 
mediate patronage of the British government have produced 
such generally beneficial results, as some of those carried into 
effect by France or Spain; but this has happened rather from 
_ contingent circumstances than from any thing ill-arranged in 
the voyages themselves. ‘The mission of the Forsters to the 
South Seas with Captain Cook produced extensive advantages, 
of which the public is sufficiently informed. The celebrated 
expedition round the world of Sir Joseph Banks, with Solan- 
der, and an unheard-of equipment for the investigation of 
every branch of knowledge, undertaken in Cook’s second voy- 
age, was, in every sense, a private act of munificence and per- 
sonal exertion like which there are few instances upon record. 
Nor were the scientific results of that famous expedition less 
brilliant than the expectations which were formed of them. 
To botany it may almost be said to have given a new creation, 
by the multitude of unheard-of plants which were then, for the 
first time, made known. In the year 1802, a highly distin- 
guished botanist, and no less skilful botanical draughtsman 
were appointed to accompany the expedition under Captain 
Flinders, to explore the coasts of New South Wales. How 
admirably the objects of this enterprize were carried into effect, 
we are informed not only by the official history of the voyage, 
but also by the extensive benefits which have accrued from it 
to the public. A more splendid collection of botanical trea- 
sures was never formed under any circumstances, the port- 
folios of drawings were of inestimable value, and the materials 
of all kinds which were collected for an account of the vegeta- 
tion of Australasia, were as near perfection as any thing human 
could be. But, alas! the liberal patronage which had been 

E 3 


5A Garden Botany. 


bestowed upon the expedition while abroad was, as soon as 
the time arrived for giving to the world the result of its labours, 
unfortunately withheld, and all which 1s even now known of 
its botanical discoveries, has been published at the private 
charge of Mr. Brown, while the incomparable drawings of 
Ferdinand Bauer, which could only haye been made public at 
a national expence, are stil! slumbering in their portfolios. 
With Captain Tuckey’s expedition to the Congo was sent the 
unfortunate Christian Schmidt, and an abundant train of natu- 
ralists and assistants. But the lamentable result of that voyage 
has of necessity prevented any material advantage from result- 
ang from it. It is, however, scarcely worth expecting any reaily 
valuable national assistance in botanical science, while there 
is no national receptacle for the arrangement and examination 
of the objects collected. Within the walls of the British Mu- 
seum the name of botany is almost unknown; and had it not 
been for the noble fortune which was generously supplied by 
the late Right Honourable Sir Joseph Banks to the service of 
the science, and for the point d@appui which he suftered his 
private residence to be made, it is impossible to believe that the 
numerous collections of dried plants which were either obtained 
from the government expeditions or from the laudable exertions 
of various British Officers, not specially employed in scientific 
pursuits, would at this day have had any public existence. — 
The royai gardens at Kew have been long celebrated for the 
stores of vegetable riches which have been for nearly half a 
century concentrated within their precincts. Government col- 
lectors maintained at great expense, national expeditions, the 
various botanic gardens of Europe, the establishments of the 
Honourable East India Company at Calcutta and Madras, the 
- governors of colonies, merchants, and private individuals of all 
ranks and descriptions, have filled the Kew garden to an 
overflow with all manner of botanical productions. At least 
such is the general belief: but since the publication of the last 
edition of the Hortus Kewensis, the public has had little oppor- 
tunity of acquiring any precise knowledge on this point, owing 
to the peculiar system cf exclusive possession which it is 
thought necessary to maintain in that national establishment. 
The new garden at Edinburgh attached to the college is a 
noble institution, and cannot fail to be of high importance to 
botanists in the northern parts of these islands. 

_ Nurseries and gardens for the rearing and establishment 
of native plants, have been formed in almost all our co- 
lonies. Under the protection of the East India Company, the 
celebrated botanic garden at Calcutta has been raised to a 
state of excellence which has never been equalled in a co- 


Garden Botany. 55 


lony; another garden exists at Ceylon. That formed at 
the Isle of France, by the French government, is still main- 
tained by our own; and an establishment for the growth of 
the native productions of New South Wales is in full activity 
at Port Jackson. In the West Indies there are botanic gar-. 
dens at Trinidad and St. Vincent’s, from the latter of which 
numerous valuable importations have been frequently re- 
ceived; but we understand it is now neglected. In Jamaica a 
garden and a horticultural society are in the course of being 
formed. 

Now let us turn our eyes to the private protection and assist- 
ance,’ which botany has received in Great Britain, and we 
shall find nothing like it in any other part of the world. To 
pass over the garden of Sherard at Eltham, which was copi- 
ously stored with plants, of which more than four hundred 
new species were published by Dillenius in 1732, no one can 
have forgotten the noble garden founded at Chelsea by Sir 
Hans Sloane, and attached to the company of apothecaries. 
In this garden, which at the time of Miller was in the meri- 
dian of its glory, all those contributions which are now dispers- 
ed among the public, were, as it were, concentrated, and the 
number of unknown plants which were first reared in its hot- 
houses was very considerable. From the time of Miller, the 
taste for garden botany in England has been rapidly increasing, 
and the collections of private individuals have been extended, 
until some of them rival in extent the large public establish- 
ments of the Continent. Besides the botanic gardens of the 
two English universities, one of which, that of Cambridge, 
was, in the time of the late Mr. Donn, among the most cele- 
brated in Europe, most important public gardens have been 
founded by the liberality and zeal of private individuals at 
Glasgow, at Liverpool, and at Hull. The two former of 
these are now in so flourishing a state, that the first men- 
tioned is said to contain no less than eight thousand spe- 
cies of plants, and that of Liverpool is perhaps more exten- 
sive. 

The taste thus excited by the zeal of amateurs has naturally 
rendered the introduction of rare plants an important object 
of commerce, and has induced individuals to risk large sums 
of money in the business of nurserymen. ‘The late Mr, Lee 
maintained for a long time, in partnership with the Empress 
Josephine of France, a collector at the Cape of Good Hope, 
by whom an immense number of new plants was introduced, 
and similar expeditions have been undertaken by other enter- 
prizing nurserymen. The noble establishment of the Messrs. 

E 4 


56 Garden Botany. 


Loddiges at Hackney, is scarcely equalled in any part of the 
world. : 

But the most remarkable feature in the modern history of 
gardening, is the extraordinary impulse which has been given 
to the public mind through the London Horticultural Society, 
which in the short space of a very few years increased from 
three or four hundred to about two thousand members, among 
whom is now ranked nearly all the nobility and science of 
the land. This society has established one of the most ex- 
tensive gardens in the world, in the vicinity of the metropolis, 
and has spared neither cost, nor influence, nor exertions, to 
accumulate within its bounds all the most rare and valuable 
productions ef the vegetable world. 

From the preface to the 5th volume of the transactions of 
this important institution, we learn that infinite pains have 
been taken to secure the acquisition of new plants, by the 
mission of collectors to various countries. We are told that 
a large stock of China and East Indian plants were obtained by | 
the exertions of Mr. John Potts in Bengal and China in 
1822; we are also informed that the government expedition 
under Captain Owen, to explore the eastern coast of Africa, 
was accompanied by a promising young botanist, in the ser- 
vice of the society, Mr. John Forbes, who unfortunately 
perished. A considerable accession of valuable plants has 
also been acquired by the same body from the voyage of Mr. 
George Don to Sierra Leone and the eastern coast of South 
America, and of a second collector sent to China. Add to all 
these, that an enterprizing young man has been dispatched to 
the north western coast of North America, and an experienced 
collector to the Sandwich Islands, and it is impossible to doubt 
that the result of all this expense and exertion will be pro- 
ductive of the most important advantages to science. How 
much has been already done is abundantly shown by the 
transactions of the society, and by the large number of new 
plants which have been distributed to the public, and pub- 
lished in the various periodical works, to the review of which 
this part of our Magazine is particularly devoted. 

If to these means of acquiring the rarest vegetable pro- 
ductions of all parts of the world, are added the stores of 
Eastern treasures which are poured into Great Britain from 
the important establishments of the East India Company, it 
will be easily conceived that no part of the world can at the 
present day boast of such superb private botanical establish- 
ments as England. 

The last edition of the well-known Hortus Cantabrigiensis, 


Garden Botany. 57 


in 1823, enumerates about 12,000 species; to which it is 
probable that at least 5000 may be added, if the obscure 
tribes cf plants which are not admitted into that useful work, 
and those which have been introduced since 1823, be taken 
into account. The number of plants, new to the gardens, 
which were seen in England for the first time in 1824, could 
not have been much less than 1000. 

An admiration of the beauties of the vegetable kingdom has 
diffused itself through all ranks of society, and has be- 
come the favourite recreation of the merchant, of the private 
gentleman, and of the man of letters. ‘To administer to such 
faudable pursuits, and to render the votaries of fashion the 
willing instruments of promoting the progress of science, was 
the original intention of such works as are at the head of this 
article. If some of those which are cf recent existence, can- 
not be said to have kept the Jatter object so much in view as 
the former, let us do justice to those which have never suf- 
fered themselves to lose sight of the interests of science for 
the sake of administering to a morbid disposition among the 
public to the contrary. 

The number of periodical publications to which the prevail- 
ing taste for garden botany has given rise is very considerable. 
In France the Chorx des Plantes, the Jardin de la Maimaison, 
and the Jardin de Cels of Ventenat, and Liliacées and Roses of 
Redouté, are excellent works of this description. ‘To the 
same class in Germany may be referred the splendid public- 
ations of Jacquin. But it isin England that such works have 
flourished beyond any example in foreign countries. By judi- 
ciously adapting the cost and the size of their books to the 
means and wishes of the public, and by laying them before 
their purchasers in an unexpensive form, with a perpetual 
recurrence at certain definite periods, a circulation has been 
created for expensive works on the plants of our gardens 
which never could have been obtained, if the necessary con- 
veniences we have noticed had not been supplied. Indeed 
the only instances in which similar works have not met with 
adequate support, have either been when the publication, 
from its price, was beyond the reach of the great mass of the 
public, or from the irregularity of its appearance gave no 
reasonable hope of a long continuance. 

The utility of periodical publications connected with the 
objects of science, cannot be placed in a stronger light than 
~by the forcible observations of one of the most distinguished 
of their editors. “ A moderate priced periodical publica- 
tion,” says this writer, “ with figures of the objects of that 
department of the history of nature to which it happens to be 


58 Garden Botany. 


dedicated, accompanied by an as popularly written account 
of the subject as the matter will admit of, serves for the 
immediate and imperishable record of species, which never 
after lose their place in the forthcoming systems of natural 
history; while they remain a standard for compilers to refer 
to, serving at the same time to lighten their labour. We 
believe that many a tolerable botanist has been made by 
these works, and still more collectors, ever upon the alert to 
assemble the curious and new objects of their pursuits, that 
they may behold them a part of the general history of nature, 
and be taught their story, while they themselves become the 
means of having a value stamped upon things which had 
none before. A plant, for instance, that is to remain unknown 
to its possessor except by its fugitive blossoms, or till the 
owner becomes a botanist, is valueless, and escapes attention ; 
while by the publications to which we allude, the pursuits and 
expenses of the collector and the florist, otherwise lost and 
useless, are rendered important to knowledge, and are made 
to enlarge the sphere of its activity, as well as to contribute 
to the amount of its treasures. It is not much above thirty 
years that a work of this kind appeared amongst us, and the 
diffusion of a taste for the study of nature has, to our cer- 
tain knowledge and observation at least kept pace with that 
appearance. Formerly the rarest vegetable bloomed for its 
master alone, or perhaps to the desert air ; now a blossom 
no sooner expands than its representation is spread, not only 
over this country, but ina short period reaches the abode 
of every botanist, even of him who dwells at the foot of 
Mount Caucasus, and makes an addition to the general fund 
of literature, while it brings in contact the learned and 
lovers of science in every region. ‘The reference to a figure 
enables the inhabitant of Petersburgh and Vienna to acquire 
the plant he wishes to possess from the nurseryman in 
London; while a name without a figure had long proved a 
source of irremediable confusion and imposition between the 
two. The more costly works published by the assistance of the 
continental governments, are useful only to the rich, and to the 
student who has access to their libraries; to the bulk of man- 
kind they are unknown, and of noavail. To detect a species, 
in the general enumerations of plants, is only within the 
power of one already versed in the science; to others these 
works are unfathomable.” 

To these observations we may add one word more upon 
the utility of the scientific and theoretical speculations which 
are introduced into the most important of these publications ; 
and to this we are particularly induced by the knowledge 


Garden Botany. 59 


that it is the opinion of many amateurs, that in works spe- 
cially intended for their use, abstract disquisitions should be 
purposely avoided. Indeed nothing is more common than to 
hear people crying out that botany is merely a science of 
idle speculation, and charging its professors with an absolute 
neglect of the only essential object connected with its study, 
that of the properties of plants. But these gentlemen forget, as 
an ingenious French writer has truly said, that the same ob- 
servations apply to every other branch of science, which is in 
its essence pure and theoretical, and that the utility of a parti- 
cular science is only developed by placing it in combination 
with several other sciences, when it for the first time becomes 
applicable to the wants of mankind. The reason of this is obvi- 
ous. A particular science abstractedly considered, looks at its 
integral parts in one point of view only, while on the contrary 
a knowledge of its relation to others is absolutely indispens- 
able before any substance whatsoever can be successfully ap- 
plied to the purposes of man. It is also forgotten by those 
who affect to despise the study of the vegetable kingdom ina 
theoretical view, that it often happens that the moment when 
the labours of the botanist appear to be furthest removed from 
the wants of society, is precisely that at which he is about to 
offer an important discovery. For by the peculiar mode of 
his arrangements, he gives to the world a power of consulting 
all the writings upon a given subject which have ever ap- 
peared, and so places the experience and the knowledge of all 
countries and all ages in aright point of view; and by an 
attentive, and as, it appears to ignorant people, by an unneces- 
sary examination of the characters and peculiarities of a new 
vegetable, he arrives at a knowledge of the natural relation 
which it bears to cthers already known, whence the chemist or 
the physician may be enabled to form a tolerably accurate 
notion of the purposes to which it may be applicable. 

We shall now advert to the publications at the head of this 
article. The Botanical Magazine owes its existence to the 
late Mr. Wm. Curtis, a sincere lover of nature for her own 
sake, by whom it was commenced in the year 1787, for 
the purpose, as its title-page still states, of making ladies 
and gentlemen scientifically acquainted with the plants they 
cultivate. At first, the numbers appeared at considerable 
intervals of time, but the rapid increase which, after the ap- 
pearance of the few first volumes, took place in its sale, in- 
duced the publishers to make arrangements for its more speedy 
‘delivery. Artists of acknowledged talent were employed in 
preparing the plates, the drawings for which were at first 
supplizd -by Mr. James Sowerby, and eventually by Mr. 


60 Garden Botany. 


Sydenham Edwards, who, perhaps, has never been equalled 
for the skill he possessed of transferring an accurate resem- 
blance of the largest plants to the small space of an octavo 
page. After the ‘death of Mr. Curtis, the editorship was con- 
fided to Dr. John Sims, by whom it is now held. ‘The work 
has arrived at the large extent of 52 volumes, and many 
hundred plates. ‘The latter are now executed under the 
direction of Mr. Curtis, an artist of deserved reputation, and 
are remarkable for the fidelity with which they are prepared. 
The colours are, however, generally dim, and the letter-press 
is less copious than it isetlic ye ahem dhe bodily health of the 
excellent and venerable writer was more vigorous. 

The Botanical Register, which derived its origin from a 
misunderstanding between the proprietors of the Botanical Ma- 
gazine and some of their previous supporters, was commenced. 
in 1815, under the management of Mr. Sydenham Edwards, as 
draughtsman, and of John Bellenden Ker, Esq., an acute and 
very skilful botanist, to whom the Botanical Magazine had 
been for a long time principally indebted for its scientific 
reputation. ‘The work has now reached the extent of 11 vo- 
lumes and 948 plates, the latter parts of which have appeared 
under the direction of Mr. Lindley. The plates of this publi- 
cation are better filled by their subjects than those of the Bo- 
tanical Magazine, and the letter-press has altogether a different 
character. The latter may be considered as a register for the 
old school of botany, the former for the modern; this of the 
principles of the French botanists, and of those in this countr y 
who think with them, that of the opinions formerly inculcated 
by Linneeus. 

The Botanical Cabinet was established in 1815, by Messrs. 
Loddiges, the celebrated nurserymen at Hackney, as a means 
of making the public acquainted, in a cheap form, with the plants 
in they own possession. It is an unpretending work, re- 
markable for the neatness of the figures and the useful inform- 
ation which it contains upon the cultivation of plants. It is 
the only publication of the kind in which we remember to 
have seen a feeling of religion the most distinguishing cha- 
racteristic. It has now reached the extent of ten volumes 
and 1040 plates. 

The Exotic Flora is a work of a different kind from any 
which have been yet noticed. While the others, from 
their cheapness, -are altogether precluded the advantages 
of botanical dissections, the latter form a principal object of 
the Exotic Flora, which is published by Dr. Hooker, chiefly 
from materials afforded him by the botanic gardens of the 
northern parts of this kingdom. The execution of the work 


Garden Botany. 61 


is like that of all the-botanical publications of the indefatigable 
author, excellent; and its high price enables it to assume an 
appearance of finish and perfection, to which neither the Be- 
tanical Magazine nor Register can externally lay claim. 

The Geraniacea, the Cistinee and the British Flower Garden, 
are all three works carried on simultaneously by Mr. Robert 
Sweet, a well known excellent cultivator and good practical 
botanist. ‘The Geraniacee will comprize all the species or 
varieties of that extensive and fashionable order which from 
time to time may make their appearance in the gardens. As 
hybrid varieties of all descriptions are included, the author’s 
labour is not likely soon to terminate. We observe that De- 
candolle takes this work as the text-book of his species of 
Geraniaceze. The Cistinee, or history of the pretty tribe of 
plants called rock roses, is just commenced, and from what has 
yet appeared, seems likely to be a useful repository of figures, 
which we think are, upon the whole, both better drawn, and 
more carefully coloured than in the Geraniaceze. The British 
Flower Garden is intended to represent such hardy plants as 
may appear deserving of notice. ‘The execution of the letter- 
press is equal to that of the author’s other works, but that of the 
plates bears no sort of comparison with the neatness and accu- 
racy we are accustomed to expect in works of this nature. We 
hope this hint will not be thrown away upon the publishers. 

The Flora Conspicua is a work lately brought forward by 
Mr. Richard Morris, and seems intended to include figures 
of all such plants as are handsome subjects for a fine plate, 
without regard to their novelty or importance otherwise. We 
confess we do not perceive the utility of this work as a bota- 
nical publication, but we must, nevertheless, do justice to the 
execution of the plates by Mr. Clark, which are really beauti- 
ful specimens of art. Such talents deserve to be better em- 
ployed than in drawing and engraving subjects like Azalea 
Pontica, and other well known things. 

The Botanic Garden is a little work published by Mr. B. 
Maund in monthly numbers, each containing one plate, repre- 
senting figures of four plants neatly coloured, and four leaves 
of letter press. Like the Flora Conspicua it is destined to re- 
ceive only hardy plants. ‘The plates are very well executed, 
and do credit to the artists employed; but each subject being 
confined to a very small size, the largest and the smallest 
plants appear by the side of each other of the same dimen- 
sions; this inconvenience is however diminished by the degree 
in which the figure of a given plant is reduced below its natu- 
ral size, being explained upon the plates. The letter press is _ 
respectably written; and is of much the same character as 
that of the Flora Conspicua. 


62 


Art.II. Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London. 
Vol. V. Bulmer & Co. 1824. Price £7. 


Tue essence of all that is in the first four volumes of these 
Transactions, will be found in the second edition of the En- 
cyclopeedia of Gardening, including also a part of this fifth 
volume. We shall, therefore, begin at where we have left off 
so that those who are in possession of the Encyclopaedia, and 
who read this Magazine, will be made acquainted with every 
improvement published by the Horticultural Society. 

In the Preface, which is dated December 1824, it is stated, 
that in this volume will be found “ a greater variety of mat- 
ter, interesting to the horticulturist, than is to be found in any 
of the preceding volumes.” At the date of the Preface to 
Volume IV., “ The total number of Fellows of the Society 
was 1520; it has since been augmented to 1915, making an 
absolute accession of near 400 in about two years and a half. 
The list of the Society contains altogether the names of 2197 
persons connected with it, either as Fellows, Honorary Mem- 
bers, Foreign Members, or Corresponding Members; an ex- 
tension which, in the infancy of its establishment, was never 
contemplated, and which certainly cannot be considered as 
having arrived at its maximum, since fresh additions are made 
at each succeeding meeting of the Society. 

‘«¢ The increase in the list of the Members has not arisen 
solely from British subjects: the knowledge of the operations 
and objects of the Society has so extended to foreign countries, 
as to induce the Sovereigns of several of the European states 
to honour it, by enrolling their names among its fellows; a 
circumstance which must prove highly beneficial, since it in- 
sures a ready protection and countenance to its communica- 
tions with foreigners.” Pref. p. 2. 

The beneficial influence of the Society is noticed, “ as inspir- 
ing a general taste for gardening ; adding to our stock of fruits 
and vegetables, and encreasing the number of ornamental plants. 
For these purposes three collectors had been sent to different 
parts of the world, of whom it is melancholy to add, that only 
one, Mr. George Don, survives.” 

Mr. John Potts-was sent to Bengal and China, and intro- 
duced a large stock of Chinese and Indian plants. He out- 
lived his return but a few weeks, and died in October 1822. 

Mr. John Forbes was sent to the east coast of Africa; he 
died at Senna, while making his way up the Zambezi river, in 
August 1823, having, during the interval between his depar- 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 63 


ture from England, and the time of his death, enriched our 
collections with an unusual number of entirely new plants. 

In the spring of 1823, Mr. John Damper Parks was sent 
to China, and obtained a great many plants of novelty and in- 
terest. In June 1823, Mr. David Douglas was sent to the 
United States, where he obtained many plants which were 
much wanted, and greatly increased our collection of fruit 
trees, by the acquisition of several sorts, only known to us by 
name. In July 1824, Mr. Douglas sailed for Colombia, on 
the north-west coast of America; a country rich in plants 
which will endure the open air in our gardens. His return is 
expected in 1826. In September 1824, Mr. James M‘Rae 
was sent to the Sandwich Islands. The Society ‘has always 
evinced a becoming liberality in transmitting to various places 
abroad, such seeds and plants as were known to be wanting 
to the comfort of their inhabitants; and it has had the grati- 
fication to find, that in every quarter of the globe to which its 
influence has reached, these efforts have been duly appreciated, 
and met by a corresponding feeling. Indeed, there is scarcely 
any portion of the civilized world, in which there is not some 
one labouring with good will, to promote the interests of the 
Society.” Pref. p. vil. 

The library of the Society is increasing by gifts and pur- 
chases, the collection of drawings and of models in wax have 
become of considerable magnitude. 

In the garden of the Society “the collections of fruit trees, 
and of hardy trees or shrubs, which it contains, may be pro- 
nounced: the most complete that have ever been made in this 
or any other country; and although much remains to be done, 
the value of that which has been accomplished, in a period of 
little more than two years, must be evident to every one who 
visits the garden. As far as the general arrangement and form- 
ation are concerned, the works may be said to be nearly 
finished. Additional walls, however, lodges of entrance, and 
ranges of houses for the reception of plants, yet remain to be 
built. For these further expenses, it is hoped that sufficient 
funds may be provided.” Pref. p. vill. 

The number of papers in this volume is eighty-two, and two 
Appendices, by forty-four authors. The first, and one of the 
most valuable is, 


On the different Species and Varieties of the Genus Brassica, and 
of the Genera allied to it, which are cultivated in Europe, &c. 
By Professor Decandolle. 


We have noticed M. Decandolle’s arrangement of the culti- 
vated species, in the Encyclopaedias of Gardening and Agricul- 


64 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


ture, and adopted it with some variation in the Encyclopzedia of 
Plants. The most original part of his communication is what 
respects those varieties which are cultivated for their seeds, to 
be crushed for oil, from which it appears that, in Britain, we are 
not possessed of the most valuable variety for this purpose. 
This variety is the colsat or colsa, of the Flemish, and the 
brassica campestris oleifera, of Decandolle. “ It would be 
desirable for agriculture,” Mr. Decandolle observes, “ that 
in all countries cultivators would examine whether the plant 
they rear is the brassica campestris oleifera, or the brassica 
napus oleifera, which can easily be ascertained by observ- 
ing whether the young plant is rough or smooth; if his- 
pid, it is the brassica campestris; if glabrous, the brassica 
napus. Experiments made by M. Gaujac, show the produce 
of the first compared to that of the second, to be as 955 to 
700.” The true colza or B.c. oleifera, is in Belgium gene- 
rally sown about the middle of June in a piece of well ma- 
nured garden ground, from whence it is transplanted after har- 
vest into fields in good heart, which have been once ploughed 
after the corn has been removed. It is kept clean and top- 
dressed, or watered with liquid manure in November, after 
which it stands the winter, blossoms in the spring, and soon af- 
ter runs to seed.” Decandolle. Radcliff’s Flanders. 

We hope soon to hear of the seed of the Colsa being on 
sale at the shops of our agricultural seedsmen, and of trials 
being made with it against the common rape, which is the bras- 
sica napus oleifera of Decandolle; the B. napus of Linneeus, 
and of Eng. Bot. 2146. 

In comparing the oil-bearing cruciferous plants together, 
Mr. Decandolle has the following observations : 


‘“« Most of them, and perhaps the wholenumber, are susceptible 
of two different variations, the one having a thin, slender, slightly 
fleshy root, the other a thick and fleshy root: in general, those 
of the first kind bear a considerable quantity of seeds, and are cul- 
tivated throughout Europe as oleiferous vegetables; the others, 
on the contrary, bring few seeds to perfection, and are cultivated 
in general for their roots, az excellent for field or garden vege- 
tables. So in the brassica oleracea, the varieties that have a thin 
stalk are cultivated for their seeds; and those that have swelled 
radicles are reserved for food. Among the varieties of the bras- 
sica campestris, which, by reason of its large seeds, appear to be 
eminently oleiferous, the colsais the most productive, and has the 
thinnest root ; for the produce of the oil, the ruta-baga and common 
napa brassica are much less useful. In the brassica rapa, the na- 
vette with a thin root is cultivated for its oily seeds, whilst the 
turnip, or brassica rapa depressa is used for food. In the brassica 
napus, the navette with a thin root is cultivated for its oil, and the 


Transactions of the Horticulturai Society. 65 


navet for the sake of its root. Lastly, in the raphanus sativus, the 
same circumstance again appears; the thin roots constantly belong 
to the many seeded varieties, whilst the thick fleshy roots are em- 
ployed for culinary purposes only. A similar law may be observed 
in other cruciferous plants. The cochlearia armoracia (horse- 
radish,) which has a very large thick root, rarely brings any seeds 
to perfection, whilst every other species of cochlearia produces 
them freely ; this observation may be useful to guide cultivators in 
the choice of the varieties proper to try as oleiferous plants. If 
taken in a more extensive sense, it may serve to throw some light 
on the laws of vegetation in general, for we know it is not con- 
fined to cruciferous plants alone.’ — Hort. Trans. vol. y. part 1. 
page 42. 

The cultivated cabbage, brassica oleracea, according to 
M. Sageret, a correspondent of Mr. Decandoile, a zealous 
cultivator, presents a singular phenomenon; that of being in- 
capable of receiving fecundation from any but its own species. 
M. Sageret tried in vain the pollen of the brassica campestris 
oleifera, or colsa, as well as that of every other species of bras- 
sica; he then found out that it had a natural tendency to 
fecundate several other species of cabbages, and even the cul- 
tivated black radish, but it could not be impregnated by any 
except its own varieties. The colsa, the chou-navet, or white 
ruta-baga (Brassica campestris napo-brassica), and the navet- 
jaune, or common yellow ruta-baga (Brassica campestris napo- 
brassica, var. ruta-baga), appear to be hybrid products of the 
cabbage and turnip (Brassica rapa), taken in different degrees 
of culture and domestication; they are none of them capable 
of crossing the true cabbage, but may all become fruitful by 
its means; they can produce amongst themselves other cross 
races, which bring their own seeds to perfection. ‘This man- 
ner of mixing in artificial breeds, shews that it forms a type 
sui generis. 

The allied genera which are cultivated for oil plants, are 
sinapis, camelina, and raphanus. Sinapis alba is cultivated in 
the Vosges as an oleiferous plant, under the name of navet 
d’été, and sometimes it is called grain-de-beurre. The cam- 
elina sativa (Eng. Bot. 1767.) is cultivated in some provinces 
under the same name, and next to the true colsa, is the most 
productive among the oleiferous cruciferous plants. The 
radishes M. Decandolle divides into three races; the round, 
the long, and the oil-bearing. (See Encyc. of Plants, gen. 
Raphanus.) The Raphanus sativus oleifera, is a native of 
China, and is cultivated in Italy for its seeds. Instructions on 
the manner of cultivating it, have been published by M. Grandi, 
in his Istoria Cultura, 1807. 

Vou. I. No. 1. F 


66 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


The succeeding papers to No. 54, have, as before observed, 
been noticed in their proper places, in the last edition of the - 
Encyclopeedia of Gardening. 


54. On the Cultivation of the Yellow Rose, and of the tender Chinese 
Roses, by budding on the Musk Cluster Rose. In a letter to the 
Secretary. By John Williams, Esq. Corresponding Member of 
the Society. Read July 13. 1823. 


The double Yellow Rose, which does not flower with Mr. 
Williams as a standard bush, flowered freely from buds in- 
serted on strong shoots of a musk cluster rose, trained on the 
east front of a house. The buds were inserted ten feet from 
the ground; the same plan succeeded with the sweet scented 
and dark Chinese Roses; the blossoms of the latter were 
larger than usual, which Mr. Knight thinks is owing to “ the 
distance the sap has to pass from the root before it reaches 
the flower-buds.” At Cobham Hall, in Kent, the sweet 
scented Chinese rose is also found to do best on the musk 
species. In a note by the secretary, we are informed that in 
the garden of T. C. Palmer, Esq. of Bromley, in Kent, the 
double yellow rose will not live on its own roots, but budded on 
the common Chinese rose in April 1822, it grew so well as to 
produce upwards of thirty flower buds the following season. 
The bud put in in April had a little of the wood attached to 
it in the French or scollop manner of spring budding. 


55. On the Cultivation of the Arachis Hypogea. In a letter to the 
Secretary. By Mr. John Newman, Gardener to the Hon. Robert 
Fulke Greville, F.H.S. at Castle Hall, near Milford, South 
Wales. Read Aug. 17. 1823. 


The Arachis Hypogzea is a leguminous plant, a native of 
Africa, but now naturalized in most of the European settle- 
ments of America. It is cultivated for the seeds, or nuts, as 
they are commonly called, which are roasted and used as 
chocolate. In China they extract an cil from these seeds, 
which is used both for lamps and for the table. The plant is 
annual in duration, and has herbaceous procumbent stems, 
with pimnate leaves, and gold-coloured axillary flowers on 
long peduncles. As soon as the flower begins to decay, 
the germ of the seed-pod thrusts itself under ground, and is 
there grown and ripened. Hence the reason why the seeds 
are called ground, or earth nuts. In our stoves Mr. Newman 
directs the seeds to be sown singly in February, and the plants, 
when six inches high, to be turned into the tan-pit, just after 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 67 


the pines have been shifted, a little below the surface of the 
tan, close to the curb of the pit. ‘They will then form a beau- 
tiful edging without injuring the pines, as they seldom grow 
more than a foot in height. They should be taken up in the 
autumn, and the pods washed, and dried in the shade. One 
plant will produce from twenty to thirty pods. 


56. On the Treatment of the Banyan Tree (Ficus Indica), in the 
Conservatory. Ina letter to the Secretary. By Peter Rainier, Esq. 
Captain R.N. F.H.S. Read Jan. 20. 1824. 


The Banyan Tree, in its native woods, sends down fibres 
from the under side of its horizontal branches, which reach- 
ing the earth increase in size, and ultimately become so many 
props, or additional stems to the tree. In captain Rainier’s 
conservatory, these fibres damped off before they reached the 
soil; to prevent which he conducted them to it in rocket cases, 
filled with equal parts of white sand, and sifted loam. When 
the fibres had established themselves in the soil, the cases were 
removed, and the fibres soon increased to stems cf the size of 
a quill, and were covered with bark the first year. In his 
conservatory at Southampton, Captain R. has now a Banyan 
tree with thirteen stems, the only one which he has seen in 
this country exhibiting its native character. 


57. Further Notes on the Utility of the Grafting Wax, described in a 
former paper. In a letter to Charles Holford, Esq. F.H.S._ By - 
David Powell, Esq., communicated by Mr. Holford. Read 
Nov. 4. 1823. 


This grafting wax is composed of 1b. of pitch, Ib. of 
resin, $lb. of beeswax. tb. of hogslard, 3lb. of turpentine, 
melted and well mixed together. © This composition is kept in 
a fluid state, by putting it in an earthen pan over boiling 
water; with a brush it is then spread evenly on sheets of 
moderately thin brown paper, which, when cold, is cut into 
slips about three quarters of an inch wide. The scion being fitted 
to the stock, take one of these slips ; warm it by breathing on 
it, and bind it round the graft, when it will be found to serve 
the purpose both of matting and claying. ‘The neatness and 
convenience of this method, Mr. Powell thinks, will recom- 
mend it to amateurs, and its cheapness and: rapidity to prac- 
tical gardeners. 

The grafting wax was used in the comparatively infant state 
of horticulture, both in Britain and on the continent, but it 
is now every where giving way to grafting clay, as a substance 

F2 


68 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


more congenial to vegetation; retaining a more equable tem- 
perature and degree of moisture in the graft, than is likely to 
be done by a thin coating of any description of resinous mat- 
ter. So far Mr. Powell’s practice may be considered retro- 
grading ; but to the amateur, who had rather his hands smelt 
of wax than were crusted with clay, it may possibly be con- 
sidered as an improvement. 

58. Some Remarks on the supposed Influence of the Pollen in Cross- 
breeding upon the Colour of the Seed-coats of Plants, and the Qua- 
lities of their Fruits. By Thomas Andrew Knight, Esq. F.R.S. 
President. Read June 3. 1823. 


This being a subject on which physiologists are far from 
being agreed, little advantage would result from discussing it 
here. Mr. Knight is of opinion “ that neither the colour of 
the seed-coats, nor the form, taste or flavour of fruits are ever 
affected by the immediate influence of the pollen of a plant 
of another variety or species.” A number of physiologists 
and gardeners, however, contend, that not only the colour of 
the seed-coats, but the size, taste, and flavour of fruits may 
be affected by the pollen of a variety of a different character. 
Cases of hybridized apples, melons, and other fruits, are said 
to be familiar to various cultivators. (See Encyc. of Gard. 823, 
824.) 


59. An Account of a New Variety of Plum, called the Downton 
Imperatrice. In a letter to the Secretary. By Thomas Andrew 
Knight, Esq. F.R.S. &c. President. Read Dec. 2. 1823. 


A hopeful fruit, originating from the white magnum bo- 
num as the mother, and the blue imperatrice as the male parent. 
It is named by the Society the Downton Imperatrice ; but as 
the specimens sent were the. first fruit it had ever produced, 
it would rather be premature to say much as to character. 


60. Observations upon the Effects of Age upon Fruit Trees of dif- 
ferent Kinds ; with an Account of some new Varieties of Nectarines. 
In atetter to the Secretary. By Thomas Andrew Knight, Esq. 
F.R.S. .&c. President. Read March 2. 1824. 


Desultory remarks ‘‘ upon the question, whether each 
variety have its period of youth, of maturity, and-of old age, 
and be formed for a limited period of duration only ; or whether 
each be ‘capable’ of eternal propagation, with undiminished 
health and vigour.” This is a difficult subject, and it is to 
be: regretted that the President has so few co-operators in 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 69 


experimenting on it. His opinion is known to be in fa- 
vor of the idea, that varieties are formed for a limited period 
of duration only ; but he has brought forward nothing to dis- 
prove, that if a variety be renovated by frequent propagation, it 
may not last and retain all its properties for ever. For ex- 
ample, suppose the golden pippin to be at present in full per- 
fection as a variety of apple; take healthy scions from a tree, 
and graft them on healthy stocks; the produce of these scions 
will be of the same quality as those of the parent tree; while 
this offspring tree is im full vigour, take scions from it, and 
graft them on healthy stocks as before; the same quality of 
fruit in an equal degree of perfection will be produced. Now, 
the question is, whether this process might not go on for an 
unlimited period, care always being taken to take off the scions 
for the purpose of renovation, before the tree they were taken 
from, became diseased or decayed? At the same time, it is an 
unquestionable fact, that the varieties of some species of fruit 
which have been long cultivated, are now degenerated; but 
whether this is the consequence of neglect of timely renova- 
tion, or whether it arises from the constitution of the variety, 
is very uncertain, and not likely to be soon determined from 
facts. ‘That some varieties are constitutionally more apt to 
degenerate than others, is within the limits of every gardener’s 
experience ; and equally so the counteracting influence of fre- 
quent renovation. From the results of Mr. Knight’s experi- 
ence, he infers “ that the debility and diseases of old varieties 
arise from the want of a properly prepared circulating fluid ; 
and that when such is given by efficient foliage, the bark of 
the most debilitated variety possesses: the power to: occasion 
the necessary secretions to take place, and the alburnum is en- 
abled to execute all its-offices.” The foliage could never be 
otherwise than efficient, or the bark than healthy under a sys- 
tem of frequent:renovation ; and therefore it is difficult to-avoid 
concluding, that such a system would keep up any variety in 
perfection for ever. _ It.certainly seems to do so with some 
varieties of plants commonly cultivated; as willows, poplars, 
vines, figs, &c., which aré.certainly not often re-originated from 
seed. But this subject can hardly be treated with advantage 
without considering together the whole that has been advanced 
on it; and we shall leave off, only observing, that even the 
conjectures of a philosopher who has studied the subject for so 
long a period as Mr. Knight, deserve the utmost respect. In 
this paper, these conjectures are much more consonant with 
common experience, than in several of the essays which 
appeared in the Philosophical Transactions. 
F 3 


70 Transactions of the Horticultural Soczety. 


The account of new varieties of nectarines, mentioned in 
the title to the paper, merely refers to a remark, that good 
varieties may be raised from seed, and that the president sent 
to the secretary in the last autumn, “many new varieties of 
nectarines, raised from seeds of the Elruge, and the pollen of 
the early violet nectarine. They were the produce of buds, 
inserted into the bearing branches of old peach and nectarine 
trees, growing upon my walls, the original seedling trees 
not having been retained in my garden.” ‘The practical gar- 
dener may observe the ingenuity of this mode, and the room 
and trouble saved by it: the first season of the growth of the 
seedling, a bud is taken from it, and inserted in the branch of 
any old tree, while the seedling itself is thrown away, and all 
the labour that would have been required to raise it to a bear- 
ing tree, wholly avoided. (See Encyc. of Gard. §12014.) 


61. On a Hybrid Amaryllis produced between Amaryllis vittata, and 
Amaryllis Regina-vittata. In a letter to the Secretary. By James 
Robert Gowen, Esq. F.H.S. Read May 1. 1823. 


The production alluded to, is a splendid hybrid, which is 
all we can say about it. Mr. Gowen thinks that the term 
hybrid should be limited to such productions from cross 
breeding as’ are sterile. When by the artificial union of two 
distinct species of the same genus, a progeny, is raised capa- 
ble of propagating itself by seed, he thinks the parent plants 
have not been originally distinct species, but the offspring of 
one species, which, being disseminated over extensive regions, 
differing in elevation, temperature, soil, and humidity, have 
assumed, in the course of ages, varied forms and colours of 
leaves and corolla, constituting distinctions so striking as to be 
rendered specitic. He acknowledges however his doubt, as 
to the law which governs these artifical productions. 


62. On the Cultwation of the Pine-Apple. In a letter to the Secre- 
tary. By Mr. Alexander Stewart, Gardener to Sir Robert 
Preston, Bart. at Valleyfield, near Culross, Perthshire. Read 
Dec. 2. 1823. 


The culture of the pine-apple, is by no means so well un- 
derstood in Scotland as in England; the plants are kept in too 
dry an atmosphere generally, and not allowed sufficient heat 
and moisture in the summer season. Karly in 1820, Mr. 
Stewart felt very desirous to grow pines without the aid of 
tan, and with more steam than he had hitherto been able 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 71 


to do. He therefore got a pit (fig. 8.) in which he built 
two flues (a, a,) and 

supported over them, on 
brick props (ce), a floor- 
ing of pavement, co- 
vered with a layer of 
gravel and sand (d), on 
which to place the pots; 
at the sides were open- 
ings (0b, 5), to admit the 
heated air from below to 
to warm the atmosphere 
of the plants; the up- 
per level of the platform 
on which the plants stand, is nearly on a level with the ex- 
ternal surface (e, ce). The pots of plants are set on the sand, 
so that when moisture is added either to it or to the 
plants, it causes a fine gentle steam to arise through the 
whole of the pit, which can be regulated at pleasure, by ad- 
ding more or less fire according to the season or other cir- 
cumstances. After nearly three years experience, Mr. Stew- 
art is “fully convinced” that tan is quite unnecessary not 
only as a source of bottom heat, but even for rooting the 
crowns and suckers. ‘The temperature kept during the 
spring and summer is from eighty to a hundred degrees 
through the day, and as low as from sixty-five to sixty degrees 
during the night; in the autumn and winter it is as low as 
fifty-five or fifty degrees.” He has no hesitation in stating 
that where coals are moderate in price, it is the cheapest plan 
he has seen adopted; and he sends the particulars to the hor- 
ticultural society, “in hopes that they may assist in establish- 
ing’? Mr. Knight’s views on the subject of cultivating the 
pine-apple. 


63. Description of a Pear Tree, on which the Operation of Reverse 
Grafting has been performed. Ina letter to the Secretary. By 
Mr. William Balfour, Gardener to Earl Grey, at Howick, in 
Northumberland. Read Nov. 4. 1823. 


The usual defect of horizontally trained trees, viz. : barren- 
ness to some distance on either side of the main stem, led Mr. 
Balfour to grafting reversely on the under side of the horizon- 
tal branches. The scions for this method are inserted in 
the same manner as in rind grafting; they take freely and 
bear abundantly. The advantages of the plan are, curing 

F 4 


72 Transactions of the Horticultural Soczety. 


the barrenness in the centre; growing several kinds of pear 
upon one tree, which for small families is an advantage; as a 
full grown pear-tree, bearing a moderate crop in many kinds, 
yields more fruit than can be consumed before that kind begins 
to decay. All these advantages, however, may be much more 
readily attained by reversing young side shoots to cover the 
centre of the tree, or by grafting some of the horizontal 
shoots where they issue from the main stem in the usual man- 


ner. A tree grafted in the reverse manner (fig. 9.) may be 
curious, but it certainly is not an elegant object. 


64. Notice of new or remarkable Varieties of Fruits, ripened in the: 
Summer and Autumn of the Year 1822, which were exhibited at 
Meetings of the Horticultural Society. 

STRAWBERRIES. — Nairn’s scarlet, from seed, by Mr. John 
Nairn, gardener to Thomas Forbes Reynolds, Hsq. at Hack- 
bridge, in Surrey. 

Wilmot’s black imperial, from seed, from Keens’ imperial. 

Grove End scarlet, from seed, by William Atkinson, Esq, 
Grove End, Marylebone. 

_Peacu. — Spring Grove Persian peach, from a stone re- 
ceived from Persia, and grown by Mr. Isaac Oldacre, at 
Lady Banks’s, Spring Grove, Hounslow. 

Grape. — Elford’s seedling grape, from seed sown in January 
1821, and now exhibited on the Ist of October 1822, being are- 
markable instance of a vine bearing fruit in the first year from 
seed. It is a tolerably good grape. By Mr. William Buck, 
gardener to the Hon. F.G. Howard, at Elford, near Lichfield. 

AppLEs. — The Jubilee pippin, from seed sown in the year 
of the jubilee,1809, in the garden of Michael Bland, Esq. at 
Norwich. 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 73 


Bere Court pippin, from seed sown in his garden at Bere 
Court, near Pangbourne, Berkshire, by the Rev. J.S. Breedon. 

Cray pippin, from seed in his garden at St. Mary’s Cray, 
Kent, by R. Waring, Esq. 

Stoney Royd pippin, from the seed of an American ‘apple, 
in the garden of Mrs. Rawson of Halifax, in Yorkshire. 

Esopus Spitzenberg apple, an American sort requiring the 
protection of a wall, large, beautiful, and of an exquisite flavour. 
It is said to have been originated in the neighbourhood of 
Albany. By George Caswell, Esq. in his garden at Saccombe 
Park, Hertfordshire. 

Claygate pearmain, the preduce of a bud taken from a seed- 
ling tree, in a hedge-row in the hamlet of Claygate, near 
Thames Ditton, by John Braddick, Esq. in his garden at 
Thames Ditton. : 

Fruit of the ANona sguamosa, or custard apple, ripened 
in the stove of Earl Powis, at Walcot Hall, Shropshire. This 
is believed to be the first instance of this delicate fruit coming 
to maturity in this country. 


65. Description of some New Pears. By Mr. John Turner, F.L.S. 
Assistant Secretary. 

To copy or abridge these descriptions here would be of 
little use; where they stand they may serve as preparations 
for that general descriptive catalogue of fruits which it is to 
be hoped the Horticultural Society will be able to publish at 
no very distant period. 


66. Account and Description of Five new Chinese Chrysanthemums ; 
with some Observations on the Treatment of all the Kinds at pre- 
sent cultvoated in England ; and on other Circumstances relating 
to the Varieties generally. By Joseph Sabine, Esq. F.R.S. &c. 
Secretary. Read April 20. 1824. 

This is a long paper chiefly descriptive and historical, but 
from which we find nothing sufficiently interesting to extract, 
excepting that most or all of the sorts thrive very well when 
planted at the base of a south wall, and trained against it. 
In such a situation they will stand the severity of a winter like 
that “‘ of 1822-3, which was very trying generally to tender 
plants, without other protection than mulching their roots. 
It is desirable that the old roots should remain, and not be 
replaced by young plants when thus cultivated, because 
the stronger they are the more branches will be produced, 
and on the number of these the superiority of their beauty 


depends.” 
(To be continued.) 


74 


Art. III. List of Works on Gardening, Aericulture, Botany, 
Domestic Economy, &c. published since January 1824 ; in- 
cluding new Editions and Translations. 


ENGLAND, 1824. 


Transactions of the Linnean Society of London, Vol. XIV. Part ii. 
London, 4to. 

T'redgold, Thomas. Principles of Warming and Ventilating Public Build- 
ings. London, 8vo. 

Watkins, Thomas. The Art of promoting the Growth of the Cucumber 
and Melon. London, 8vo. 

Morris, Richard, F.L.S. The Botanist’s Manual, a Catalogue of hardy 
Exotic and Indigenous Plants. London, 12mo. 

Forsyth W. A Treatise on the Culture and Management of Fruit Trees. 
7th edition, London, 8vo. 

Smith, Sir James Edward. The English Flora. Vols. I. II. London, 8vo. 

Greville, R. K. Flora Edinensis; or, a Decription of Plants growing near 
Edinburgh. Edinburgh, 8vo. 

Roscoe, William. Monandrian Plants. London, folio. 

Purton Thomas, Member of the Royal College of Surgeons. An Appendix 
to the Midland Flora. 8vo. London. 

Huber Francis. New Observations on the Natural History of Bees. 12mo. 
London, 

Livington, F.D. An Essay on the Culture of the Gooseberry. London. 

Butt, The Rev.J.M.T., M. A. Vicar of East Garston, Berkshire. An Intro- 
duction to English Botany, upon a new Method. 12mo. London. 

Drummond, James L.,M.D., Surgeon, Professor of Anatomy and Physiology 
in the Belfast Academical Institution, First Steps to Botany, 1 Vol. 

Bliss, G. Gardener. The Fruit Grower’s Instructor; or, a Practical Trea- 
tise on Fruit Trees, from the Nursery to Maturity. 8vo. London. 

Western, C.C. Esq. M.P. Practical Remarks on the Management and Im- 
provement of Grass Land, as far as relates to Irrigation, Winter-flooding, 
and Drainage, in a Letter. to the Landowners, &c. of the County of 
Essex. Svo. London. 

Hooker, Wiliam Jackson, F.R.S., A.S.L. &e. and Thomas Taylor, M.D. 
M.R.LA. and F.L.S. &c. Muscologia Britannica; containing the Mosses 
of Great Britain and Ireland, systematically arranged and described; 
with Plates illustrative of the Character of the Genera and Species. Svo. 
-London. 

Maund, B. The Botanic Garden; or, Magazine of Hardy Flower Plants, 
cultivated in Great Britain. Lond. 4to. with Plates. , 


> 


1825. 


Transactions of the Linnzan Society of London. Vol. XIV. part iti. 
London, 4to. 

Smith, Sir James Edward. The English Flora, Vol. III. London, 8vo. 

Don, David. F.L.S. Prodromus Florez Nepalensis. London, 12mo. 

Morris, Richard,F .L.S. FloraConspicua. London, 8vo. In numbers monthly. 

2. Essays on Landscape Gardening. 4to. London. 

Greville, R. K. Scottish Cryptogamic Flora, Vol. III. Edinburgh, svo. 

Lindley, John, F.L.S. Report upon the New and Rare Plants which have 
flowered at the Garden of the Horticultural Society, &c. London, 4to. 

2. Instructions for the Packing of Seeds and Plants, in foreign Countries. 
8vo. London. 

Sweet, Robert, F.L.S. The Hothouse and Greenhouse Manual, or Botanical 
Cultivator, 2d edition. London, 8vo. 


List of Works on Gardening, &c. 75 


Partington, C. F., of the London Institution, The Builder’s Complete 
Guide; comprehending the Theory and Practice of the various Branches 
of Architecture, Bricklaying, Brickmaking, Masonry, Carpentry, Joinery, 
Painting and Plumbing. London, 8vo. 

Winch, N. J. AnEssay on the Geographical Distribution of Piants, &c. 
Newcastle, 8vo. 2d edition. 

Billington, William, Member of the Caledonian Horticultural Society, and 
Superintendant of the inclosing, fencing, draining, and planting 1,100 
Acres of Land in the Forest of Dean, and of some Woodlands at Chop- 
well in the County of Durham, belonging to His Majesty, and formerly 
Gardener to the Right Hon. Lord Yarborough, and the Earl of Had- 
dington, A Series of Facts, Hints, Observations, and Experiments on 
the different Modes adopted for raising Plantations of Oaks “ for future 
Navies” from the Acorn Seedling, and larger Plants; shewing the Diffi- 
culties and Objections that have occurred in the practical Part; with 
experimental Remarks upon fencing, draining, planting, pruning, and 
training the Young Trees; with a clear and copicus Statement of the 
early great Profits and Advantages that may be derived from Plantations 
of mixed Trees, planted as Nurses or Shelter to the Oaks, by timely 
Care and Attention, and the contrary Effects from Negligence or erro- 
neous Management of Young Plantations; also how Trees are retarded or 
accelerated in their Growth from various Causes. The whole derived 
from actual Experience upon the most extended Scale; with some ex- 
perimental Facts and Hints upon Fruit Trees and Herbs. London. 
8vo. 

Watson, J. E. The Housewife’s Directory, being the most complete Sys- 
tem of Domestic Economy ever submitted to public notice, including - 
every kind of Instruction in Cooking, Pickling, Preserving, &c. London. 

Brereton, A.M. the Rev.C. D. rector of Little Massingham, Norfolk. A 

Practical Inquiry into the Number, Means of Employment, and Wages 
of Agricultural Labourers. 8vo. London. 

. An Inquiry into the Workhouse System, and the Law of Maintenance 

in Agricultural Districts. 8vo. London. 

. Observations on the Administration of the Poor Laws in Agricultural 

Districts. 8vo. London. 

Hayward, Joseph, Author of the Science of Horticulture. The Science of 
Agriculture, comprising a Commentary on and comparative Investiga- 
tion of the Agricultural Chemistry of Mr. Kirwan and Sir Humphrey 
Davy; and the Code of Agriculture of Sir John Sinclair, Sir Joseph 
Banks, and other authors on the subject. With Remarks on the Rust 
or Black Blight in Wheat ; of which the true cause and its prevention 
are explained. Lond. 8vo. 

A Treatise on Milk. London, 8vo. 

Peall, Thomas, Veterinary Professor, Dublin A Treatise on the Foot Rot 
in Sheep; including Remarks on the exciting Cause, Method of Cure, 
and Means of preventing that destructive Malady. svo. London. 

Bullock,W. F.L.S. Proprietor of the late London Museum. Six months’ 
Residence and Travels in Mexico, containing Remarks on the State of 
Society, Agriculture, &c. 2 vols. 8vo. Londen. 

Sinclair, George, F.L.S. author of the Hortus Gramineus Woburnensis. An 
Essay on the Weeds of Agriculture, with their common and botanical 
names, London, 8vo. 

Sweet, Robert, F.L.S. Cistinez; or, a complete History of that beautiful 
tribe of Plants, called Cistus, or Rock-Rose. London, 8vo. 

Bayldon, J. S., land agent and appraiser. The Art of valuing Rents and 
Tillages, and the Tenant’s Right on entering and quitting Farms. 2d edit. 
8vo. London, 


tbo 


is} 


76 List of Works on Gardening, &c. 


Lambert, Aylmer Bourke, F.R.S.F.S.A. Genus Pinus, Vol. II. Imperial, 

folio. London. 

M‘Adam, J. L. Observations on the Management of Trusts for the Care of 
Turnpike Roads, &c. 8vo. London. 

Dacre, Rev. B., A.L.S. Testimonies in favor of Salt as a Manure, and a 
Condiment for Horses, Cows, and Sheep, &c. 8vo. London. 

Hamilton, Gulielmus. Prodromus Plantarum Indiz Occidentalis, &c. 8vo. 
London. 

Buchanan, George, civil engineer. A Treatise on Road Making, Railways, 
Wheel Carriages, and the Strength of Animals.. 

Clater, Francis, late of Retford, chemist and druggist. Every Man his 
own Cattle Doctor, containing the Causes, Symptoms, and Treatment 
of allthe Diseases incident to Oxen, Cows, and Sheep. svo. London. 

Kitchiner William, M.D., author of the Cook’s Oracle, &c. The House- 
keeper’s Ledger, a plain and easy Plan of keeping accurate Accounts of 
the Expences of Housekeeping, and the Elements of Domestic Eco- 
nomy. gvo. London. 

Holland, Mary, author of the Complete Economical Cook. The Modern 
Family Receipt Book. 1 vol. 12mo. London. 

Slaney, Robert A. barrister at law. Essay on the Beneficial Direction of 
Rural Expenditure. 


FRANCE, 1824. 


Vibert, J. P. Observations sur la Nomenclature et le Classement des Roses. 
Paris, 8vo. 

Lindley, John. Monographie du genre Rosier, traduite par M.de Pronville. 
Paris, sans figures. 

Dutrochet, M.H. Recherches Anatomiques et Physiologiques sur la Struc- 
ture interne des Animaux et des Végétaux, et sur leur Motilité. Paris, 
8yvo. ; 

Richard, Achille. Monographie de la Famille des Eleagnées. Paris, 4to. 

Hilaire Auguste St. Plantes usuelles des Braziliens. Paris, No.1. 4to. 

St. Hilaire, Jaume. Traité des Arbres Fruitiers. 12 Nos. Paris 8vo. 

Dralet. Traité du Heétre et de son Aménagement, &c. Toulouse, gvo. 

Kunth, C. S. Synopsis Plantarum quas in itinere ad plagam eequinoctialem 
Orbis novi collegerunt Al. de Humboldt, et Am. Bonpland. Vol. 3. 
Paris, 8vo. 

La Guide du Cultivateur et du Fleuriste. Bourdeaux, 12mo. 

Petit Thouars, Aubert du. Sur la Formation des Arbres Naturelles ou 
Artificielles. Paris, 8vo. 

Fee, A. L.A. Essai sur les Cryptogames des écorces Exotiques Officinales. 
Paris, 4to. 

Jussieu, Adrianus. De Euphorbiacearum generibus, etc. tentamen. Paris. 4to. 

Decandolle, Aug. Pyr. Rapport sur les Plantes rares ou nouvelles du 
Jardin de Botanique de Genéve. Geneva, 4to. 

2. Prodromus Systematis Naturalis Regni Vegetabilis. Vol. I. Paris, svo. 


1825. 


Jussieu, Adrien de. Monographie du Genre Phebalium. Paris, 4to. 

Brogniart, Ad. Essai d’une Classification Naturelle des Champignons. 
Paris, 8vo. 

Brogniart, Ad. Observations sur les genres Cytisus et Nepenthes. Paris, 
8V0. : 

Chevalier, F. F. Histoire Generale des Hypoxylous. Paris, 4to. 

Bailly, C. Consideration sur Incision Annulaire, ses Causes, ses Effets, et 
particuliérement son Emploi dans la Culture dela Vigne. Paris, 12mo 


List of Works on Gardening, &c. ?7 


Richard, Achille. Nouveaux Elémens de Botanique, &c. svo. Paris. 
Guillemin, J. B. A. Récherches Microscopiques sur le Pollen. Paris 4to. 
Desmaziéres. Plantes cryptogames du Nord de la France. Lille. 
Decandolle, A. P. Mémoires sur la Famille des Légumineuses. to. 


Germany, ITaty, Spain, &Xc., 1824. 


Berg., C.F.W. Monographie des Pfropfens, oder Technologische Beschrei- 
bung der Verschiedenen Pfropfarten, &c. Leipsig. 4to. 

Enumeratio stirpium Phanerogamarum que in Silesia sponte proveniunt. 
Wratislavie. S8vo. ( 

Hepp, Ph. ULichenen-Flora zur Wiirtzburgh. Maintz. 8vo. 

Steudel, Ernest. Nomenclator Botanicus enumerans Ordine alphabetico 
nomina atque Synonyma tum Generica tum Specifica, &c.Vol.i. pt. 1 & 2. 
Stuttgardt. 8vo. 

Metzger, J. Europaische cerealien in botanischer und landwirthschaftl. hin- 
sicht. Heidelberg. Fol. 

Welden, Ludw. Freyh. v. Der monte rosa; eine topographisch-natur histo- 
rische skizze. Wien. 

Schultz. Recensio generum Barbule et Syntrichie. 

Reinwardt, C. G.C. Oratio de Argumentis quze Historize Naturali ex Indiz 
Inyestigatione accesserunt &c. 

Trattinnich, Leopold. Synodus botanica Vol, IV. ce Potentilla. Vindo- 
bone. 12mo. 

Lehmann, I. G. C. Icones et Descriptiones novarum et minus cognitarum 
Stirpium, fasc. 3-4, fol. Hamburgh. 

Schriften der gesellschaft zur beforderung der gesammten naturwiss, zu 
Marburg. Vol. I. 

Acta societatis Naturee scrutatorum Lipsiensis. Vol.1. with 7 plates. Leip- 
sig. to. 

Voit, F.S. Worterbuch der Botanische Kunstsprache. Jena. 

Katechismus der botanik, oder anleitung zur naturgeschichte des Pflanzen- 
reichs. Leipzig. 

Viviant, Dominicus. Flore Lybice Specimen, sive Plantarum Enumeratio 
Cyrenaicam, Pentapolim, Magne Syrtus desertum, et Regionem Tripolita- 
nam incolentium &c.&c. Genue. Fol. 

Graumuller, J. Ch. Fr. Flora Jenensis oder Beschreibung der in der Nahe 
y. Jena wildwachsenden Pflanzen &c. Eisenburg. 

Kaulfuss, George Frid. Enumeratio Filicum quas in itinere circa terram 
legit Adalbertus de Chamisso, &c. Lipsie. 8vo. 

Funck, G. C. Cryptogamische g gewiichse besonders des Fichtelgebirgs. 

Buck, J.N. Hortus Francofurtensis, oder Verzeichniss der in-seinem Garten 
cultivirten Gewiichse mit hinzufii iigung der in der Nahe Frankfurt wild- 
wachsenden pflanzen. Frankfort on the Oder. svo. 

Dierbach. Terminologie botanique des Siécles qui ont précédé la Réforme 
de la Botanique. 

Verhandlungen des Vereins zur Beforder ung des Garten-baues. in den 
KG6nigl. Preussichen Staaten. Vol. 1. ato. Berlin. 

Gothe. Zur Naturwissenschaft iiberhaupt, besonders zur Morphologie. 
Stuttgard & Tiibingen. 

Eschweiler, Fr. G. Systema Lichenum, genera exhibens, rite distincta, plu- 
ribus novis adaucta. Norimberge. ; 

Link, H F. Elementa Philosophize Botanice. Berolini. 8vo. 

C olla, Aloys. Hortus Ripulensis seu Enumeratio Plantarum que Ripulis 
coluntur. Turin, 4to. 

Bonninghausen, C. WM. F.a. Prodromus Flore Monasteriensis Westpha- 
lorum; Phanerogamia. Regensburg, 8vo. 

Agardh, C. A. Systema Algarum. Lund, 8vo. 


78 List of Works on Gardening, &c. 


Wahlenberg, G. Flora Suecica. Upsal. vo. 
Henschel, Aug. G.B. Th. Commentatio de Aristotele Botanico-philosoph. 
Breslau. 4to. 

Roper, J. Enumeratio Euphorbiarum quz in Germania et Pannonia gig- 

nuntur. Gottingee, 4to. 

Schouw, Joachim Frederik. Grundziige einer Allgemeinen Pflanzen geo- 

eraphie. Berlin, 8vo. mit einem Atlas. 

Romer and Schuliz. Mantissa in Volumen secundum Systematis Vegeta- 

bilium. Stuttgardt, svo. 

Nees v. Esenbect. Volistandige Sammlung Officineller Pflanzen. ste. und 

9te. Liepsung, fol. 

2. Nova Acta Physico-medica Acad. Cees. Leopoldino-Caroline Nature 

Curiosorum. Vol. XII. parti. Bonne, 4to. 
. Fungorum Javanicorum Prodromus. Bonne. fol. 
. Robert Brown’s Vermischte Botanische Schriften aus dem Englischen 
_ ubersetzt, &c. Leipzig, 8vo. Vols. I. II. 

5. Die Deutschen’s Brombeerstrauche Fol. Elberfeld. 

Martius, Dr. Die Physiognomie des Pflanzenreiches in Brazilien. Mu- 

nich, 4to. 

2. Palmarum Familia ejusque Genera denuo illustrata; Programma. 4to. 
Monachii. 

5. Nova Genera et Species Plantarum quasin Itinere per Braziliam, &c. 
collegit et descripsit. Pingendas curavit, &c. Dr. J. G. Zuccarini, 
Fasc. 1. et 2. Fol. Monachii. 

Reichenbach, Lud. Magazin der Garten Botanik, No. 15. Leipsig. 

2. Icones et Descriptiones Plantarum cultarum et colendarum, &c. 
Parts I.—XII. i 

5. Iconographia Botanica, sur Icones Plantarum rariorum, &c. Parts VI. 
to X. Leipsig, 4to. i 

4. Illustratio Generis Aconiti atque Delphinii. Fase. I—VI. fol. . 

Bartling, J. et Wendland H.L. Diosmese descripte et illustrate. Gottingz. 

Bartling, Fr. Gottl. und Wendland, Heinr, Lud. Beitrage zur Botanik. svo. 

Gottingen. 
Carey, W. and Wallich, Nath. Flora Indica; or, Descriptions of Indian 
Plants, Vol. II. Serampore, 8vo. 


1825. 


Hali, J.C. Van. Flora Belgii Septentrionalis. 8vo. Amsterdam. Vol. I. 

Lomeni, Ignaz. Del Riso Cinese. svo. Milan. 

Giacinto, Carlo. Mezzo Stabile di Prosperita per le Isole di Malta e Gozo. 
Malta, 8vo. 

Sprengel, Curt. Systema Vegetapilium, Vols. I. II. Gottinge, svo. 

Nees v. Esenbeck. Nova Acta Physico-Medica Acad. Cees. Leopoldino- 
Caroline Nature Curiosorum, Vol. XII. Partii. Bonne, 4to. 

Neues Allgemeines Garten-Magazin. Weimar. 4to. Vol. I. 


AMERICA, 1824. 


Coxe, W. A View of the Cultivation of Fruit Trees, and the Management 
of Orchards and Cider. Philadelphia, svo. 

Llave, Paullo de la, et Lexarza, Johannes. Novorum Vegetabilium De- 
scriptiones, Fasc. I. 8vo. Mexico. 


1825. 


Llave, Paullo de la, et Lexarza, Johannes. Novorum Vegetabilium Descrip- 
tiones, Fasc. II. S8vo. Mexico. 

Barton, W.P.C..M.D. A Flora of North America, 3 vols. 4to. 

American Farmer, Vol. VI. 4to. 

The Plowboy, Vol. II. 4to. 

The New England Farmer, Vol. [V. 4to. Baltimore. 


Oo 


ae) 


PART III. 
INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. I. Foreign Notices. 


FRANCE. 


AGRICULTURE of the Island of Corsica. In a work on this subject 

by M. Vigarous, it is stated that there are wastes of great extent, called 
makis, on which the following plants grow to a monstrous size: Cistus 
monspeliensis, Erica multiflora, vulgaris, and other species, Pistacia lentis- 
cus, Arbutus unedo, Lavandula stzchas, and spicata, Lonicera grata, and 
other species, Genista Anglica, Myrtus communis, Asphodelus, Helleborus, 
Ferula, Digitalis, &c. _ These fine plants form such an_ impervious mass of 
vegetation, that the first step towards culture is to set fire tothem. There 
are many forests in which the principal tree is the Pinus laricio, in many 
instances 100 feet high, and four feet diameter at the base. Of this 
valuable species of pine there are now plants to be had in several of 
the London nurseries, and it is perhaps as well, or better worth culture, as 
that too frequently despised tree the Pinus sylvestris. In general appear- 
ance it has a strong resemblance to that species; but it exceeds it in 
rapidity ef growth in a most extraordinary degree. We have been told, 
upon undoubted authority, that a young individual of each species was 
planted in 1817 upon a sandy hill in one of the coldest of our eastern 
counties. About.a twelvemonth since it was found that while the Scotch 
pine had reached no higher,than six or seven feet, the P. laricio was at least 
twelve feet high. 

Repeopling Wastes and Waters. A society in France, who style them- 
selves “ Societé Anonyme de Fructification générale,” propose in fifteen 
years to put in productive culture about 20,000,000 of acres of waste land, 
and to render productive 120,000 leagues of watercourses, ‘‘ which, deprived 
of their antient shades, do not contain above the twentieth part of the fish 
which they contained only forty years ago.” As acondition, the society de- 
mands a ninety-nine years’ lease of all the uncultivated lands and waters 
of France; their fund is to be 100,000,000, and they are to pay 5 per cent. 
to the subscribers. 

Sheep of Thibet. A variety of species called purick is said to produce 
the wool used in the manufacture of cashmere shawls.—(Journ. des Comm. 
Usu. et Prat. by M. Lasteyrie, No. 1., and Asiatic Journ. vol.1.) 

Grafting the Pine and Fir Tribe. The Baron de Tschudy has made a 
great many experiments on grafting trees and herbaceous plants, some of 
which we have noticed in the second edition of the Encyclopedia of Gar- 
dening. The pine and fir tribe he inoculates before the buds have pushed, 
which is found to succeed much better than any other mode. In herbace- 
ous vegetables, he has grafted the melon on the briony, the result of which 
was, fruit of the size of a citron, very sweet. The artichoke he grafted on 
the cardoon, the cauliflower on cabbage, love apples on potatoes, and so 
on. — (Ann. de ? Agr. Franc. t. Xxix.) y 

Dodder. A French cultivator, who found his lucerne very much in- 
jured by this parasite, recollecting that it germinates in the soil, and that it 
is the shoots that attach themselves to the stalks of the lucerne, adopted 
the plan of cutting the latter frequently early in the season, by which the 
dodder, which is an annual plant, could not fix itself, and died. 


80 Foreign Notices. 


Distillation from Plums. An excellent spirit is obtained from the bruised 
pulp and kernel, fermented with honey and fleur, and distilled in the 
usual manner. — Jour. du Midi. Fevrier, 1825. 

Goats of Thibet. M.Ternaux has obtained great praise throughout 
France for the Introduction of these animals, which seem to thrive in all the 

‘climates of that country. “ The heat of the departments of the south, and 
the cold of the highest mountains, such as the Pyrenees, the Mount d’Or, 
and the Vosges seem equally to agree with therft’’ — Constitut. Avril, 1825. 

Potatoes. Voltaire, it seems, was the first to call the attention of the 
French to this valuable tuber in 1777, and after him, Parmentier and Cadet 
de Vaux. 

Code of Agriculture. This work has been translated into French by 
M.Mathieu de Dombasle, under the title of “ L’ Agriculture Pratique et 
Raisonnée;” because, says the translator, the word “ code” conveys the 
idea of a collection of particular laws. 

Destruction of Ants. The first mode is to sprinkle snuff over them; the 
second consists in mixing soot with oil of hemp-seed, and sprinkling the 
mixture on the plant it is wished to preserve. The odour is said to be 
insupportable both to ants and bugs. 

American Cranberry and Oak Leaves. Some of the German journals are 
only translating in 1824, the culture of the former plant, and the use of 
the leaves as a substitute for tan or dung, from the Horticultural Transac- 
tions for 1808, and Speechley’s Treatise on the Vine for 1790.— Bullet. Univ. 
Sept. 1825. 

Thunder and Hail. A society for mutual assurance against storms of 
this description in France, is proposed by M. Tessier in the Annales de 
l’ Agriculture Frangoise, t. xxx. 

Preserving | Potatoes in a, dried state. Wash them, cut them in pieces, 
steep them forty-eight hours in lime water, then forty-eight hours in fresh 
water; dry them in an oven. One hundred parts of fresh potatoes will 
give thirty so prepared and dried. In this state they may be kept for 
years, or ground at once into flour. This flour mixed with a third part of 
that of rye, is said to make an excellent bread. The same author proposes 
to moisten potatoes dried as above with olive oil, and then to grind them, 
and use them as coffee. 

How to make the most of Unripe Melons. Boil them, and season them 
with spices and salt, or bake them like pumpkin pie. 

Pine Apple. A manufacturer who has a steam-engine, is said to have 
conceived the happy idea of applying the spare steam to the culture of 
this fruit ; of course the result was, fruit of a supericr quality to those 
grown in the ordinary way.— Jour. Hebdom. Paris, May 1825. 

Primula sinensis. This plant is greatly prized in France and in the 
Netherlands, where, under the protection of glass, without fire-heat, it 
flowers most abundantly the whole year. — Ann de la Soc. Linn. de Paris, 
Mars 1825. 

Ringing Fruit Trees. A pamphlet has been published on. this subject 
by M. C. Bailly, of Paris ; it is in two parts, the first treating of the effect 
of ringing on fruit trees in general, and the second of the effect of ringing 
the vine. ; 

1st. Ringing increases the diameter of the parts of trees, but not their 
length; a fact, explained by the theory of the ascending and descending 
sap. The latter is arrested in its progress by the circular incision, as is 
proved by the thick edge which takes place on the upper margin of the 
wound, and by the diameter of the shoot, which, in the vine in particular, 
acquires double the thickness above the wound that it does below it. 

But in proportion as the shoots are benefited by ringing, the roots are 
injured by the want of the regular circulation of the descending sap; the 
great art, therefore, is to adjust the dimension of the incision to the degree 


Foreign Notices. 8 


of sufferance which the system of roots can undergo, without material 
injury. 

el The effect of ringing vines which have ligneous stems, is similar to 
that produced on fruit trees in general, and, therefore, M. Bailly confines 
himself to the effects of ringing those vines which are annually cut down to 
low stools, as is the case in most of the vineyards of France. To vines 
of this description he considers the practice disadvantageous, as weakening 
the root; but he excepts certain cases, in which as in provins, the shoots 
are annually laid down and covered with earth; and says, if it could be so 
contrived as to nourish the young shoots from the fibres produced at the 
incision, when it is buried in the soil, and thus dispense with the large 
ramose roots often unfurnished with fibres, and which only serve to con- 
sume the sap prepared by the leaves, it would be of great advantage. 

Horticultural Society in Paris. We are happy to be enabled to state, 
that hopes are entertained by the amateurs of gardening in France, to be 
enabled to form a Horticultural Society, which may be similar to that 
established in England. Barons Ferussac and Mortemart-Boisse, the latter 
of whcm we last year saw in England, have been using their influence 
and personal exertions to bring about this desirable event. We know no 
country in which an establishment for horticultural purposes is more 
needed than in France. 


GERMANY. 


Mountain Rice. It is proposed to acclimatize this grain in the Duchy 
of Baden. The directions given by M. de Hermann for its acclimatization, 
are as follow: 1. choose a situation as little as possible exposed to sudden 
cold; 2. sow it ona hot-bed, and transplant it after the frosts of spring ; 
3. sow it sufficiently early to ripen in September; 4. choose the very best 
seed; 5. sow every year a little earlier; 6. transplant every year a little 
earlier; 7. if these practices succeed, try sowing where the plants are 
finally to remain; 8. employ manure, hot and stimulating; 9. steep the seed. 

Gardener's Magazine in Germany. In January 1825, a new German 
Gardener’s Magazine was commenced at Weimar, in a noted establish- 
ment, the proprietor of which is a great lover of gardening, and has an 
extensive walled garden, containing numerous hot-houses. It is divided 
into eight parts. 1. Botany, relative to gardens; 2. theory of gardens; 
3. ornamental gardens; 4. culinary gardens; 5. orchards; 6. parks and 
English gardens; 7. literature of gardening; and 8. miscellaneous intel- 
ligence. It is published in parts, of which six make a volume ; but it does 
not appear that the time of publication is to be regular. The first number 
contains a translation of Mr. Knight’s last paper on the culture of the 
melon. 

Hanoverian Method of saving Lettuce Seed. Do not wait till the spike 
of flowers has ripened all the seeds, but cut it over on the first appear- 
ance of maturity, and lay it on the ground, when all the florets will ripen 
their seeds nearly about the same time. 

How to destroy Caterpillars in an Orchard. Plant according to its size, 
from one to four plants of bird-cherry (Prunus Padus); almost the whole 
of the caterpillars and butterflies within 100 or 200 yards will resort to 
that plant. The appearance of the bird-cherry will be hideous, but the 
fruit trees will be safe.—(Agricultural Journal of Bavaria, April 1825.) 

Preservative against Insects and Blight. A correspondent in a German 
Agricultural Journal says, “bore a hole in the branch attacked, drop 
therein two drops of quicksilver, and at the end of two days all the in- 
sects will be found dead.”? This assertion may very well be questioned. 

Maize. The Pomological Society of Brunn are endeavouring to na- 
turalize five varieties of the maize or Indian corn, which they have pro- 
cured from America. 

Vou. I. No. 1. G 


82 Foreign Nottces. 


Indian Millet. In Bavaria they are endeavouring to naturalize this 
vegetable (Sorghum vulgare), and it is said with apparent success. 

Astragalus Boeticus. Two ounces of the seeds added to half an ounce 
of good coffee beans, roasted and ground, are said to make an excellent 
coffee. 

Dalmatian Strawberry. This is the Arbutus Unedo, Fragolini, Italian, 
and Magniche, Illyrien. In Dalmatia these fruits are so abundant, that 
in 1817 they began to distil a spirit from them, which they have since 
done in great quantities, and sold in Trieste for the highest price. 

Culture of the Millet in Germany. There are three species in cultiva- 
tion, common millet, Panicum miliaceum, Italian millet, P. italicum, and 
Polish millet, P.sanguinale. The first is principally cultivated, and is very 
productive in rich soil. It requires to be sown very thin, especially in 
good soil. To preserve it from the mildew, the seed is immersed for a 
moment in boiling water. Great care is requisite to cut down the plant 
as soon as the seeds begin to ripen, otherwise they are apt to be lost by 
the wind. The straw is less useful than that of wheat for thatch, or that 
of oats for fodder. 

In the Garden of the Imperial Residence in Vienna a large conservatory 
has lately been erected, and a considerable number of new plants have 
been sent thither from this country; among these were a collection of 
Chrysanthemums from the Horticultural Society. 


‘SWITZERLAND. 


Agricultural Schools. The number of these for the poor are increasing 
from day to day. That which was established at Bleesihof, in the Canton 
of Zurich, in 1818, is in the most flourishing state; that of Hofwyl, near 
Berne, the first which was established in Switzerland, still maintains its 
reputation; that of Carre, near ‘Geneva, and that at Basle, are com- 
paratively recent establishments, but give every promise of success. 

The Mole Plough. One of these has been introduced at Geneva, and 
approved of by the Society of Agriculture there. 


ITALY. 


Transplantation of Trees. An Italian Journal has published a long 
paper on this subject, containing the results of many experiments made by 
M. Carradori; these are, 1. to cut as little off the roots as possible; 
2. that transplanted things require no other nourishment than water, and 
are injured by manure; and 3. that too much care cannot be taken to 
shelter them from the sun. 

Grapes in Sicily. In the neighbourhood of Termini they cultivate above 
joteyone varieties, the names of which are given in L’ Ape di Palermo 
or 1822. 

The Hypericum crispum is stated in the Transactions of an Italian Agri- 
cultural Society, to be a deadly poison to sheep, and well knownvras such 
by the Sicilian and Neapolitan shepherds. 

Vineyards. Hopes are entertained that the produce of the Italian vine- 
yards, which is almost unknown in this country, will be soon materially im- 
proved under the direction of a patriotic Roman nobleman, the Marquis 
Potinziani. We understand cases of the first fruits of his vineyard have been 
already consigned to a celebrated Italian house in London. Under the di- 
rection of the same spirited individual, the common Woad ( Isatis tinctoria) 
has again been brought into very extensive cultivation; we have been in- 
formed that the produce and quantity have proved to be quite equal to 
‘that of Indigo already cultivated, and as good indigo made as in India, 
but not cheap enough. 


Foreign Notices. 83 


NETHERLANDS. 


The Pear Colmar-Dewez. This pear lately originated in the neighbour- 
hood of Brussels, is said to contain a rare assemblage of extraordinary 
qualities; flesh white, tender, and exquisitely melting. The juice abund- 
ant, mild, and of an elevated agreeable perfume, equal to the Harden-pont 
@hiver. In a note it is observed, that the Harden-pont Pear, is the same 
as the glouglou; and that the Pear glouxmorceau de Cambron is the same 
as the Beurré de Neuve Maisons, and both resemble the Harden-pont, 
vulgarly called the Beurré d’hiver; so that after all this new pear differs 
little from the Beurré @hiver. — Bullet. Univer. Sept. 1825. 

Preparations of Milk in Flanders. In that country there are two 
curious preparations of milk in common use. The first is a mess called 
sour milk, much used by the country people, and made as follows: a con- 
siderable quantity of milk is put into a deep wooden vessel, and a certain 
quantity of salt is added to it. It is then left until the whey separate from 
the curd, when the former is poured off and given to the pigs, and the 
latter is stirred round, and more milk is added to it. This operation is 
. repeated until the desired quantity of curd is obtained, which is found to 
have acquired a very acid taste. In this state it is kept for winter use, and 
is used in mixing a quantity of it with water and flour, which is boiled, 
and then bread is added to it. This mess is used for breakfast and sup- 
per, which always concludes with bread and butter. The second is a mess 
of curd, often used in the summer months, and much relished for supper. 
For making it vessels are procured, the one of which goes within the 
other, the innermost being perforated with numerous holes for the escape 
of whey. The milk is coagulated by means of rennet made by infusing a 
small piece of the dried stomach of a young hare in white wine. To the 
curd, well freed of the whey, is added salt and pepper, but many consider 
eschallots an indispensable ingredient.— Brews. Kd. Jour. Oct. 

Roses grafted on Oaks. M. Bomowsky grafted or budded Rosa centi- 
folia, bicolor, lutea, semperflorens, and alba altissima, on the young shoots 
of oaks, planted in pots and placed in a green-house. Rosa semperflorens 
flowered the same year; the others grew but did not flower. Only one 
sort died. M.B.does not know whether they will last many years or not, 
but he recollects other anomalies of the same kind. — Sullet. Univer. 
Aug. 1825. 

Show of Plants at Ghent, 29th of June and 2d of July 1825. The medal 
was given for Hovea Celsi, as the most rare. Amaryllis toxicaria, and — 
Canna Iridiflora, were the second in point of rarity. 

Tan from the Bark of the Spanish Chesnut. The excellent quality of 
this tan is set forth in the Journal de l’Agriculture des Pays Bas, 
Oct. 1824. 

Budding. In the Agricultural Journai of the Pays Bas, for October 
1824, it is recommended to reverse the usual mode of raising the bark for 
inserting the buds, and to make the cross cut at the bottom of the slit, in- 
stead of at the top, as is generally done in Britain. The bud is said rarely 
to fail of success, because it receives abundance of the descending sap, 
which it cannot receive when it is under the cross cut. 


SWEDEN. 


Culture of Silk in Sweden. This it seems was attempted a number of 
years ago, and in 1823 was renewed. The mulberry grows very well in 
some of the provinces, and the silk produced is said to be of a finer and 
stronger quality than that of India. ‘The silk produced in Bavaria is in 
like manner said to be superior to that of Italy. ’ q 

The Agricultural Society of Stockholm celebrated in February last their 
twelfth anniversary. The king himself was present, and made a speech on 

G 2 


84 Foreign Notices. 


the importance of the subject; observing that the result of their efforts had 
notwithstanding the severity of the climate, exceeded their hopes. 


DENMARK. 


Horticulture in Denmark seems to be as much in repute as in most other 
countries of the continent; the Crown Prince is a fellow of the Horticul- 
tural Society of London; and one of the royal gardeners, Mr. Peter 
Lindegaard has contributed several papers to the Horticultural Society’s 
Transactions. Some of Sir John Sinclair’s writings have been translated. 


RUSSIA AND POLAND. 


Caterpillars on Cabbages. In Lithuania these are said to be destroyed by 
distributing the leaves of a species of Kalmia which grows wild there (pro- 
bably Ledum palustre), the odour of which is said to occasion the death of 
the caterpillars. 

Botanic Garden at St. Petersburgh. The celebrated botanic garden of 
Prince Razumofisky, at Moscow, which was under the direction of Dr. 
Fischer, at the death of that nobleman, excited no interest in the mind of 
his son; and Dr. Fischer then used his utmost exertion to have a botanic 
garden worthy of the Russian empire established at its capital, St. Peters- 
burgh. This happily, through the intervention and influence of the 
Emperor’s mother, a great lover of botany, and who herself possesses a 
very fine collection of plants, was accomplished. 

Upon one of the small islands formed by the branches of the Neva, to 
the north of the town, and named Aptekerski Stroff (Apothecaries’ Island), 
was founded by Peter the Great, a small garden for the cultivation prin- 
cipally of such plants as were useful in medicine, and was given to the 
company of apothecaries. Here Peter built, with his own royal hands, a 
hut, which still exists, and planted several trees, especially of poplar and 
lime, which have attained a considerable size, and are preserved with a 
sacred care. This spot, consisting of good soil, and watered upon one 
side by a branch of the Neva, was fixed on as the scite of the present 
garden. Other ground, however, was added to it in 1823, so that it in- 
cludes an area of 60 English acres, in part surrounded by a wooden fence, 
and partly by a hedge, which occupies about 200 yards next the river. 

In 1824, a series of operations were commenced and carried into exe- 
cution; such as, perhaps, have scarcely any parallel in the annals of 
botanical institutions. Orders were given for ranges of green-houses, con- 
servatories, and stoves, the cost of which was estimated at a million of 
roubles (about 40,000/. sterling), and the whole to be completed before the 
present winter. 

There are three principal houses, facing the south, each 700 feet in 
length, and 20 to 50 feet from back to front, placed in parallel lines, but 
at such a distance from each other that by two other houses of the same 
length, running from north to south, and placed at the ends of these, the 
whole forms a parallelogram, measuring 700 feet each way, intersected by 
a central house of the same length. The middle building is most lofty, 

‘being 40 feet high in the central part. The three that face the south have 
a sloping light in front reaching from the top to the ground. Those which 
run north and south have a double roof, are comparatively low, and have 
the path in the centre. All are heated by means of common flues, and 
with wood, principally birch. Water is raised by engines from the river, 
and cisterns filled in various parts of the houses, and in the most con- 
venient situations. The large spaces of ground or areas between the build- 
ings, are filled with shrubs and flower beds; only behind the most southern 
one is a splendid suite of apartments for the Royal Family. These have 
windows, opening from above into the house below, so that the plants may 
be seen to great advantage. 


Foreign Notices. == 85 


Dr. Fischer, who has the charge of the establishment, occupies, at pre- 
sent, a small wooden dwelling within the garden; handsome and commo- 
dious habitations are to be built for him and for the two chief gardeners, 
one of whom is a Dane, and the other a Frenchman. Two secretaries are 
employed, one a French Gentleman, M. Fleury, who lately visited this 
country with Dr. Fischer, the other a Russian, and also an excellent bo- 
tanic painter, a native of Germany, who has already executed some very 
beautiful drawings of new and rare plants. There is scarcely a garden in 
Europe, which will not, if it has not already, contribute to stock this su- 
perb establishment. The collection is, even now, very great. 100,000 
roubles were appropriated for the purchase of plants at the commencement ; 
and 68,000 roubles annually for the ordinary expenses. During the last year, 
which, as we have seen, was the first of the commencement of the institu- 
tion, no less than 14,000 packages of seeds were sown in 60,000 pots. Dr. 
Fischer paid a hasty visit to England and Scotland in last autumn, and 
collected so great a number of living plants (above 4000), that he engaged 
Mr. Goldie of the Monkwood Nursery, near Ayr, to take charge of them 
during the voyage, and to assist in the transplantation. This was success- 
ful, and on Mr. Goldie’s quitting St. Petersburgh in October, the whole 
collection was in a most thriving condition. din. Journ. of Science, 1824, 
No. 6., p. 356. 358. 


SPAIN AND PORTUGAL. 


Don Mariano La Gasca, professor of botany at Madrid, has promised 
to furnish us with ample information on the gardening of Spain, for our 
next Number. 


INDIA. 


Substitutes for Hemp. The palm Saguerus Rumphii has fibres which 
may serve for ropes and cables of any size. The Jate Dr. Roxburgh 
planted 100,000 of them in the botanic garden at Calcutta. At the end of 
six or seven years this may be cut down, the fibres of the trunk converted 
into ropes; the sap into palm wine, or toddy; and the pith into sago. 
Crotalaria juncea is used in several parts of India to make ropes, and 
delivered in London it comes much cheaper than Indian hemp. The 
common hemp Cannabis sativa is not cultivated in India for cordage or 
the weaver, but only in a small quantity, on account of the narcotic qua- 
lities of the leaves of the male, and the flowers of the female. Robinia 
cannabina is one of the best vegetables of India for producing fibres fit 
for cables and ropes. Corchorus Olitorius is cultivated for the same pur- 
pose. The Agave Americana, Aletris nervosa, Abroma augusta, Hi-. 
biscus Manihot, a species of Bauhinia, another of Sterculia, may all be 
employed for the same purpose; but Crotalaria juncea is most generally 
us‘d on the coast of Malabar, and all the countries of the East.— 
Technic. Repos. Oct. 1824. 


CHINA. 


Hatching of Fisk. The Chinese have a method of hatching the spawn 
of fish, and thus protecting it from those accidents which generally destroy 
a large portion of it. The fishermen collect with care from the margin and 
surface of water, all those gelatinous masses which contain the spawn of 
fish, and after they have found a sufficient quantity, they fill with it the 
shell of a fresh hen’s egg which they have previously emptied, stop up the 
hole, and put it under a sitting fowl. At the expiration of a certain 
number of days, they break the shell in water warmed by the sun. The 
young fry are presently hatched, and are kept in pure fresh water till they 
are large enough to be thrown into the pond with the old fish. The sale 

- GS : 


86 Foreign Notices. 


of spawn for this purpose, forms an important branch of trade in China. — 
Profess. Silliman’s Journ. of Science, Vol. vill. p. 381. 


NORTH AMERICA. 


The American Farmer’s Journal, vol. vi., and the American Plowboy, 
vol. ii., both weekly publications after the manner of newspapers, have 
been lately presented to the Horticultural Society, and will afford us some 
gleanings fer our next Number. ; 

African Sheep. An importation into the United States from Africa 
has recently taken place, of a number of the broad-tailed breed of sheep, 
procured from the interior of Africa at considerable expense and trouble, 
by Captain Creighton, of the United States ship Cijane. This species is 
said to be extremely valuable, not only for the wool, but the flesh; and the 
tail in particular, which is eight or ten inches in breadth, is esteemed a 
great delicacy. This is the first attempt to introduce the breed into North 
America. — Morn. Chron. Oct. 

A Horticultural Society has been established in Jamaica; the secretary of 
which, Mr. Miller, has proffered its services te the Caledonian Horticul- 
tural Society. 


SOUTH AMERICA. 


The Cow Tree. This tree, which has been named Galactodendron, 
and appears to belong to the family of Sapotez, grows on rocky declivities 
on the northern Andes. Its leaves are large, oblong, thin, dry, and 
coriaceous. “ Its thick ligneous roots scarcely enter the rock; for several 
months in the year rain scarcely waters its fan-shaped leaves. The branches 
appear dry and dead. But when an incision is made in the trunk, a sweet 
and nutritious. milk runs from it. It is at sun-rise that the vegetable liquid 
runs most abundantly. Then the natives and negroes are seen to come 
from all parts provided with vessels to receive the milk, which becomes 
yellow, and thickens at the surface. This vegetable milk possesses all the 
physical properties of the milk of animals, only it is a little thicker, and 
mixes easily with water. When boiled it does not coagulate, but a thick 
yellow pellicle is formed on the surface. Acids do not form with this milk 
any coagulum as with that of the cow.’ — Humboldt, Voyage aux Regions 
Equinowiales du Nouveau Continent, lib. v. chap. 16. p.263 and 264. 


AUSTRALASIA. 


Australian Agricultural Company. We are happy to be enabled to state 
of our own knowledge, that this company, which has been incorporated 
for the promotion of horticulture and agriculture in N. 8. Wales, is pro- 
ceeding under the most favourable auspices. Large quantities of agricul- 
tural implements and new farming stock, and horticultural productions of 
all kinds have been sent from this country, and the reports from the colony 
are of the most gratifying description. It is expected that the olive will 
be soon introduced at Port Jackson, where the cultivation of the grape has 
already succeeded beyond expectation. We have seen samples of a 
growth of wine from these young vineyards, which is not inferior to the 
very best of the light white Burgundies. With the protection which the 
promoters of the purposes of this company wi!l meet with from the new 
and enlightened colonial secretary, Alexander M‘Leay, Esq., it is not too 
much to anticipate, that in a few short years the vineyards and olive 
grounds of Port Jackson and Sidney will rival the best of France and’ of 
Italy, as their Merino fleeces already do the finest which are imported 
from Spain. 

Government Garden. Some additions have been made lately to the 
colonial garden at Port Jackson, which, under the care of its indefatigable. 
superintendent Mr. Charles Frazer, is rapidly accumulating in one common 


Domestic Notices. 37 


point, the vegetable riches of the colony, and the most important pro- 
ductions of our own quarter of the world. 


Art. II. Domestic Notices. 
ENGLAND. 


Prangos Hay Plant. This is a perennial herbaceous plant belonging to 
the Umbellifere, nearly allied to Cachrys, and named by Mr. Lindley, 
Prangos pabularia. It has a large fleshy root stock, and finely cut leaves, 
about two feet long, which constitute the fodder. It is cultivated in 
Thibet, and employed in the form of hay as a winter fodder for sheep and 
goats. It is considered to be at least as durable as Lucern, and may 
probably become a valuable plant in several British colonies. Seeds sent 
to this country had lost their vegetative power, but from various facts it 
is conjectured, that the Prangos may become an agricultural plant of this 
country. — Lindley in Jour. of R. Instit. No. 37. 

Camellia Olcifera, a handsome plant of this species is now in flower at 
Messrs. Loddiges for the first time in this country; the petals are white, 
and about two-thirds of the size of the single white Camellia japonica, 
In the southern provinces of China it is cultivated in great abundance 
for the sake of the seeds, which produce by pressure a fine pure oil used 
for lamps, and for various purposes of cookery. 

Island of Jersey. A nursery was established here in 1816, by B. Saunders. 
Its extent is about six acres, in which a general assortment is kept, of 
fruit and forest trees, greenhouse, and herbaceous plants. Many new 
varieties of apples and pears from France are here cultivated. It is noted 
for the Chaumontel pear, which here grows to great perfection ; and also 
for very choice new roses, ‘Tulips, Jonquils, Anemones, Ixias, Gladioluses, 
double white Primroses, Carnations, and Yellow picotees, in great variety 
Supplies of Belladona and Guernsey Lilies are annually sent to the London 
and provincial nurserymen. 

Woods and Forest Lands. We omitted-to include in the last edition 
of the Encyc. of Gard., a work entitled Observations on Woods and Forest 
Lands, by W. Wilkie, published by Rivington and Co., in 1800. The 
author is at present employed in the nursery of Messrs. Cormack, Son, 
and Sinclair, New Cross, Deptford, and may be advantageously consulted 
by gentlemen on the subjects of his book. Pay 

Horticultural Society of London. Nothing very particular was exhibited. 
at the Society’s rooms on the two meetings of October; but on the 1st 
and 15th of November, a splendid shew of chrysanthemums was placed on 
the table, including nearly twelve sorts, which have never before bloomed 
in this country. Among the fruits tasted during the last four meetings, 
the best in our judgment were, the Tottenham park Muscat grape, the 
Beurré d’ Aremberg pear, and the Golden pippin and Nonpareil apples. 
The pears were grown by Mr. Knevet, an eminent market gardener at 
Turnham Green, who occupies ground that was a garden celebrated for 
Pine apples in the time of Justice, nearly a century ago. Some very large 
fruit of Pyrus japonica were exhibited by Miss Crabtree, an amateur. The 
Pine apples of November had very little fiavor. Fine specimens of Humea 
elegans, Crowea saligna, and Cyclamen persicum were exhibited on the 
6th of December, and at the same time a very interesting paper read on the 
laws which regulate the production of double flowers, by Mr. Lindley. 

In the garden of the society the finest autumnal feature has been the 
Chrysanthemums; the Dahlias had bloomed tolerably well for the season ; 
but the Chrysanthemums, for variety, brilliancy, and luxuriance, we may 
assert, without the least risk of exaggeration, presented.a display never 
hitherto equalled in Europe. There are now in the garden about fifty 

G4 


38 Domestic Nottces. 


sorts ; the whole of these were assembled in one house; and in full bloom 
on the 20th of November, and the greater part of the varieties were in 
equal perfection, closely trained against a south wall. ; 

The Pine plants are equal in luxuriance to any in the neighbourhood of 
London, and in general every thing cultivated in the garden is in a pros- 
perous state. In future numbers we expect to be more particular in our 
details of this garden, and of the meetings and transactions of the society in 
Regent Street. 

The prospectuses of two publications have been issued by the society ; 
the first is to contain correct delineations of the new or rare plants which 
may be flowered in the garden at Chiswick; and the second accurate deli- 
neations of the fruits cultivated there. 


Ericas in flower from October ist to November 26th, in the Tooting 
Nursery, communicated by Messrs. Rollison. 


Acuminata, Exsurgens grandiflora, Pyramidalis, 
Aitoni, Filamentosa, Ramentacea, 
Archeriana, Formosa, Retorta, 
Ardens, Gracilis, Rupestris, 
Assurgens, Imbricata, Savillia, 
Bandoni, Lambertiana, Sebana, 
Banksia purpurea, Leucanthera, Solandri, 
Bowieana, Longipedunculata, Taxifolia, 
Caffra, Lutea, Templea, 
Carinata, Mammosa, Tenella, 
Carneola, Mucosa, Tenuiflora alba, 
Cerinthoides, - Mutabilis. : Triceps, 

magna, Ovata, Vernix, 
Colorans, Palustris, rubra, 
Concinna, Preestans, Vestita fulgida, 
Cupressina, Princeps, purpurea. 
Exsurgens, Pubescens major, 

From November 1st to the 26th, besides many of the above. 
Calycina, Pubescens minima, Scabriuscula, 
Concolor superba, Regerminans, Serratifolia, 
Denticulata, Rollissons’ blanda, Sordida, 

Hirta, Rubens, Viridescens. 
Mucosoides, 


* We expect in our next number to give a catalogue of the Erice of Pro- 
fessor Dunbar, the most complete, we believe, in existence. 

Scotch farming. One of the most spirited examples may be seen on the 
farm of Kidbrooke, Blackheath, consisting of 620 acres, occupied by Mr. R. 
Dickson from East Lothian. Mr. Dickson seems to possess abundant 
capital, which is directed by adequate skill, and stimulated by the highest 
spirit and love of his profession. In the appendix to Holdich’s essay on 
weeds, lately edited. by Mr. Sinclair, is given an account of Mr. Dickson’s 
mode of freeing a field of heavy soil from couch grass, without the aid of a 
naked fallow. From this it appears that no cost is spared for the most 
improved implements; six being described as employed for the above pur- 
pose, which together must have cost at least 1204. The most effective of 
these implements is Moreton’s revolving harrow. 

To render trees permanently fruitful. It has been suggested we believe 
by Sennebier, that if a ring of bark were taken from the trunk of a rapid 
growing tree, and replaced by a ring of bark from a tree of an allied species, 
but of slower growth, it would have a tendency to operate like the process 
of ringing without any of its inconveniences. Apply a ring of plum-tree 
bark to a branch of peach-tree. 

Provincial Horticultural Societies are established at Cambridge, York, 
Leeds, Liverpool, Winchester, and other places; we should be happy to 
receive some account of these societies, and from time to time a report of 
their proceedings for the purpose of inserting them in the Gardener’s 
Magazine. 

_ Magnolia macrophylla, a plant of this species about 14 feet high, flowered 
in the open ground at Chiswick in May last,and about the same time another 
trained against a wall in the flower-garden at Harringay near Highgate. 


Domestic Netices. 89 


Botanic Garden, Mary-la-bonne. This establishment of Mr. Jenkins has 
been entirely broken up, and the plants sold to make way for building 
operations. Several nurseries have submitted to the same fate. 

Large Pine Apples. On the 50th September a pine-apple was cut in 
Lord Anson’s garden, at Shugborough, which was two feet in circum- 
ferance, and weighed 11 lbs. 3 qrs. —(Morn. Chron., October.) About the 
same time one was cut in the Duke of Buckingham’s garden at Stowe by 
Mr. Brown, somewhat larger than the above. 

Brighton Atheneum and Oriental Garden. The principal objects of this 
institution are the following: I. An extensive collection of exotic plants 
inclosed in a glazed conservatory. I. A library of standard works in liter- 
ature and science, museum of natural history, &c. &c. III. Annual courses 
of lectures on all subjects of interest and importance. 

Lhe Oriental Garden. This name has been chosen from the adaptation 
of the place to the growth of tropical plants. The building will be of ori- 
ental character, entirely of glass, supported by iron-work of a peculiar con- 
struction ; which, while it possesses the requisite strength for covering so 
vast a space, is delicate enough to admit the light with perfect freedom. 
Tt will include about an acre of ground and under this magnificent canopy 
the finest and most beautiful tropical plants may be grown in all the per- 
fection of their native soil and climate. 

New Plum. Two nurserymen have been advertizing a plum imported 
from New Jersey ; the one calls it La Delicieuse, as being a name given to 
it by Charles X. of France; and the other, Cooper’s Large Red American 
Plum, as being the original name. It is said to be very peculiar in the 
habit of its wood and leaves; the fruit of a large size, oval, purplish color, 
rich, and juicy, making an excellent preserve. It is ripe in this country 
about the end of September, on trees trained to a wall; on standards it 
ripens a week or ten days later. 

Destruction of Worms and Slugs. Mr. D. M‘Dougal perseveres in dis- 
seminating his remedy for these vermin, and wherever he is employed is 
completely successful. His secret is well known, but we do not mention it, 
because most people make light of things which cost them nothing, and be- 
cause we think that Mr.M‘Dougal merits something.— Encye. of Gard.2284. 

American Aloe. One flowered last Autumn at the Duke of Devonshire’s, 
of which the following description was sent us by Mr. Lindsay, gardener to 
his Grace: “ The plant. is upwards of twenty-four feet in height; the leaves 
average about four feet and a half in length, and about seven inches in 
breadth; the circumference of the plant at the base is about four feet, and 
that of the flowering stem about sixteen inches. In all probability the 
plant will continue flowering for three weeks. The flowers on being 
minutely reckoned, compose the unmense number of 2112. ‘This species 
of agave is a native of South America, and was introduced into Britain 
in the year 1640; the class hexan. monog. This plant is known to have 
been in Chiswick gardens for nearly fifty years, and is supposed to be 
upwards of ninety years old.” : 

Mustard Seed of Scripture. Mr. John Frost thinks he has discovered 
that the Mustard Seed of Scripture was the seed of the Phytolacca do- 
decandra. — Journ. R. Inst. Oct. 

Action of Poisons upon the Vegetable Kingdom. M.'T. Marcet, of Geneva, 
has lately made some curious experiments upon the effects of poisons upon 
the vegetable system. By causing plants to grow in poisonous mixtures, or 
by introducing poisons into their system, it was found that the effect upon 
vegetation was nearly the same as upon the functions of animals. The ex- 
periments were generally made with plants of the Kidney Bean, and a 
comparison was always made with a plant watered with spring water. — 
Journ. R. Inst. Oct. 


Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens. Considerable alterations are making in the roads and 
fences of the park, and a bridge, or viaduct of some description, is being erected at the head +f 


90 Domestic Notices. 


the Serpentine River. We have long ago suggested, that it would be a great improvement to re- 
duce the piece of water in Kensington Gardens and that in the park to the same level; and these 
two rivers being united, to let them constitute the separation of the park from the gardens, In 
that case, the continuation of the New Road, Mary la bonne, along Grand Junction Street, might 
enter the park exactly where it abuts on the Uxbridge Road, and so continue along the north 
margin of the united river, till it joins the park road already existing, towards its eastern ex- 
tremity. Another improvement would be to bring in the supply of water by a large pipe, which 
might take its rise where the present brook crosses under the Grand Junction Canal. Two ad- 
vantages would result from this arrangement ; first, the water would be brought in pure, instead 
of being, as it is, a common sewer ; secondly, it might be brought in at such an elevation as would 
give a fall of ten feet for a cascade, as the source of supply. By the judicious employment of this 
cascade among the wood, and by other arrangements which we cannot here enter into, an excel- 
lent effect might be produced. Another improvement, which we have several years ago suggested, 
is the removal or thinning out of the margin of timber trees from Cumberland Gate to the door 
into Kensington Gardens, Bayswater. These trees being removed, an open palisade should be 
substituted for the wall, and within, a broad margin of evergreen shrubs, to preserve the privacy 
of the interior gravel road and walk, and increase the beauty from the exterior. There can be 
no comparison, surely, between the beauty of a margin composed of hollies, box, yew, laurels, 
junipers, cedars, &c. and one of elms and poplars, like the present. But the truth is, both the park 
and gardens were planted before we had attained to much discrimination or taste (and which 
indeed we have hardly attained to yet) in the choice of trees and shrubs. The present time seems 
to be a favorable one for improving our public parks and gardens, which foreigners justly observe 
are inferior to those of every other great city of Europe. We had translated, from the Prussian 
Horticultural Transactions, some observaticns on this subject by Mr. Lenné, Royal Prussian 
Garden Engineer, who lately visited this country, but we find we have not room for them in this 
number. . 
SCOTLAND. 


Caledonian Horticultural Society's Garden. The following account is taken from the report 
by the Garden Committee, dated March 5th 1825. The ground, about ten acres, lies on a de- 
clivity immediately to the southward of the Botanic Garden, from which it is only separated by 
a wall (fig.10. f.) The operations for forming it, commenced in August 1824; the plan was the joint 
production of two members of the committee, but chiefly of Mr. M‘Nab. It has been drawn up 
with ‘‘ the most careful reference to the general features of the ground in regard to its aspects, 
and to the varying conditions and qualities of the soil: those compartments allotted to standard 
fruit trees, have been placed on the western side, where the soil is deepest, and best calculated 
to receive them; and exterior to these, the arboretum has been disposed in such a manner as to 
unite the purposes of shelter, ornament, and utility. 

In forming the various walks, attention has been paid to unite beauty of design with the rea- 
diest communication throughout all parts of the ground. ‘The principal walk, which encircles 
the whole Garden, may be particularlized here, as constituting, on one side, a splendid terrace. 
walk, of near 700 feet in length, commanding one of the finest views of Edinburgh on the south, 
and the Betanic Garden on the north, bordered on each side by an extensive collection of roses 
and evergreens.” 

The following are the details of the plan: 


9 
@ § 
9 
9 9 1: 
§ Magia mm ree A 
ry | ae ae Sep BEA X 
g LSE ev amram 
9) 
@ H 
4 
D 
9 


a, Orchards for Standard Apple, Pear, Plum, and Cherry Trees. — They 
occupy a space containing nearly two and a half English acres. and are 


Domestic Notices. 91 


calculated to contain about 550 fruit-trees, at twelve feet apart every way. 
As the apple-trees, however, will mostly be trained en buisson, and many of 
the pear-trees en quenouille, eight or ten feet apart will generally be found 
sufficient; so that the number of trees may be greatly increased. It is 
here intended to form a collection of all the best varieties of hardy fruits, 
to be procured in this country, and from the continents of Europe and 
America: which will be brought with the utmost diligence into a bearing 
state, in order that the kinds may be proved, and the nomenclature fixed. 
We shall thus ascertain with precision those kinds best suited to the climate 
of Scotland; grafts or buds of which will be subsequently distributed to 
the members. 

6, Central enclosed Experimental Garden.—A portion of ground en- 
closed by a holly hedge, with a door to be kept under lock and key, for 
select experiments. 

c, The Culinarium or Kitchen Garden, containing nearly an acre of 
ground.—Besides paying every attention to the more ordinary kinds 
worthy of cultivation, all the new or little-known varieties of culinary 
vegetables will be fairly tried, in beds of considerable extent; and the re- 
lative advantages of various modes of culture determined. A copious 
supply of water is conveyed to a cistern in the centre of this compartment. 

d, Compartments for an ample assortment of Stocks of different kinds 
for grafting or budding: such as Paradise and Doucin Stocks for Ap- 
ples: Quince Stocks for Pears: Plum and Almond Stocks for Peaches, 
Nectarines, Apricots and Plums: and Guin and Mahaleb Stocks for 
Cherries. 

e, Nurseries for rearing Seedlings, Offsetts, Cuttings, and Layers of the 
rarer trees and shrubs. 

f, Principal Wall, with a south aspect, for the finer kinds of fruit trees : 
as Peaches, Nectarines, Apricots, Cherries, Almonds, the best French and 
Flemish Pears, Figs, Quinces, and hardy Grape-Vines, with an exempli- 
fication of the different modes of training. This wall is in general 14 feet 
high: 402 feet are built of coursed freestone, 75 of coursed whinstone, 
and 210 are faced with brick. Three kinds of coping have also been 
adopted for different portions of the wall. The border in the front is 
eighteen feet broad, and is formed in the most efficient manner, with a 
compost which has been long in preparation. Part of it has been laid 
with a bottom impenetrable to the roots of the trees. On this border, 
also, it is intended to raise the choicest annual esculent vegetables; and 
in this warm situation, some of the rarer varieties may be expected to 
ripen their seed, and ultimately become more hardy. 

g, Walled Experimental Garden. — An enclosed space in the north-east 
angle of the ground, enjoying the advantage of walls, with south and west 
aspects, to which new or rare fruit trees and delicate shrubs may be 
trained. Part of this enclosure is to be devoted to the naturalization of 
tender exotics. This, and the compartment 8, will be kept locked, and 
under the immediate charge of the society’s gardener, in whose presence 
they may be visited by the members. ; 

h, The East slip ; — having a wall eight feet in height, with a west aspect, 
for new varieties of dwarf fruit trees, and a nursery border for raising new 
plants from seed. 

i, Eastern Division of South Slip. — A fine border sloping to the south, 
well adapted for the cultivation of strawberries; and where the different 
species and varieties, at present in great confusion in Scotland, may be 
correctly ascertained and distinguished. : 

k, Western Division of South Slip;—intended for a collection of 
the small fruits, such as gooseberries, currants, and raspberries. Those 
varieties which require a deeper and richer soil, and a more sheltered situ- 
ation, will be commodiously placed between the rows of trees in the lower 
division of the orchard. 


92 Domestic Notices. 


1, The site for the erection of a hot-house for tropical fruits, and a few 
ornamental plants; a greenhouse, chiefly for the citrus tribe, Chinese 
plants, &c. and forcing houses for late peaches, nectarines, grape vines, &c. 
The plan of these houses is not yet prepared, and must be modified for the 
present in proportion to the extent of the funds. The space allotted to 
them is 200 feet in length by 25 in breadth, including back sheds. In the 
front will be a bordcr 12 feet in width. The aspect is a little to the east- 
ward of south, so that the houses will face the sun about a quarter before- 
eleven o’clock. 

m, The Framing Department, — 150 feet in length, by 100 in width, for 
Ananas and Melon Pits, Cucumber and Gourd Frames, with room also 
for different Earths, Composts, and Manures. 

n, Enclosure, sheltered by an evergreen hedge, for Greenhouse Shrubs, 
and other plants kept out of doors during the summer months. 

o, General Arboretum; for large trees and tall shrubs which produce 
dry capsules, and fruits little used as food; so disposed around the Garden 
as at once to afford shelter, produce ornament, and serve the purpose of 
a scientific collection. 

p, Raised Belts.— The larger ones dividing the orchards are intended 
for middle-sized trees and shrubs producing small fruits, such as Guins, 
Mulberries, Medlars, Azaroles, Mountain-Ash, Crabs, Barberries, &c. The 
smaller belt, next to the stock department, is appropriated to a collection 
of Chesnuts, Walnuts, Filberts, Hazel and Cob nuts. These raised belts, 
formed at a trifling expence during the levelling of the ground, constitute 
a part of the Arboretum, and will eventually afford much shelter. 

g, Compartment for a collection of the most ornamental sorts of Peren- 
nial Herbaceous Plants. 

7, Another compartment, destined for the cultivation of the most desir- 
able Annuals, and for naturalizing the more tender exotic species. 

s, A portion of ground set apart for receiving plants used in Agricul- 
ture; as Grasses, Clovers, &c.; where experiments may be tried at the 
suggestion of those interested in promoting the agriculture of the country. 

#¢, American-Shrub Department, with prepared borders. Here also 
will be the Pond for aquatics, surrounded by a mass of Rock-work for al- 
pine plants, &c. 

u, A space for plants with striped and variegated leaves. 

_v, Ornamental Flower-Borders for Carnations, Pinks, Ranunculuses, 
Anemones, Stocks, and other plants producing double flowers, as well as 
for Tulips, Hyacinths, Poiyanthus-Narcissus, &c. 

w, The Rosary, forming a border on each side of the south terrace- 
walk through nearly its whole extent; calculated to contain a collection 
of all the known species and well marked varieties. 

zx, Entrance from Trinity-road, with a cart-way into the frame-ground. 

y, Site of the Gardener’s house and the Committee-room, with apart- 
ments for arranging and keeping seeds, &c. 

z, South entrance to the Garden. 

This plan, as far as we can judge of it without inspecting the grounds, 
meets our entire approbation. We consider it greatly superior to that of 
the London society’s garden, in which a radical mistake consists in having 
placed the arboretum in one compact mass, instead of forming a belt of it 
to surreund the garden. The ground plan of this arboretum, and espe- 
cially- of the canal, or river, is quite a caricature upon ornamental 
landscape. 

The Caledonian Horticulturai Society held their great autumnal com- 
petition on the 51st of August last, at which a number of premiums were 
awarded for fruits of various descriptions. That for the best Queen pine 
apple, was awarded to Mr. John Mitchel, gardener to Sir David Mon- 
crief, Bart. 


Domestic Notices. G3 


British Wines. This society has always paid_ particular attention to the 
subject of home-made wines. Thirty-seven varieties were now presented 
to them for examination. The qualities of the wines seem to have im- 
proved materially from year to year, not only in the Champagne, both still 
and mousseux, from the unripe gooseberry becoming more and more pa- 
latable; but various attempts at imitating the drier continental wines have 
succeeded beyond expectation. The committee recommend competitors 
to follow, as nearly as possible, the mode practised by Mrs. Roberts, and 
described at length in the Memoirs of the Society, vol. iil. p.460. The 
following receipt is from this family :— 

I have but one general rule for making every kind of garden wine. I put one-half pound of 
water to every pound of fruit ; bruise them well together, and continue to mix them twice or 
thrice a day. I use the Saccharometer, and weigh a small quantity of the liquid after every 
operation. The increase of gravity is regularly noted down; for as long as saccharine matter is 
contained in the husks, the gravity will increase. When this is exhausted, a decrease of saccha- 
rine matter will be observed by a decreased specific gravity at the next trial, shewing that such 
matter begins to be decomposed. It is then strained from the husks into a cask without a head, 
for fermentation ; which cask is sufficiently large to contain double the quantity required. The 
average quantity of sugar I use, is two pounds loaf, powdered fine, to every gallon of impressed 
juice, put in with the juice in the cask. This fermentation is allowed to continue till it has at- 
tenuated 30 or 40 per cent., helping the operation by adding a very small quantity of yeast at the 
first, and afterwards skimming and stirring it at the least once a-day. It is then transferred into 
the barrel for final fermentation, (filling it up twice a-day with its own liquor, kept for this pur- 
pose), and allowed to remain unbunged till all visible fermentation has ceased. 1 again weigh a 
sample, and find a further attenuation of i0 or 15 per cent. It is then racked from its lees 
into another cask, and the lees run through a filtering bag. The proportion of spirits used is 
one-twelfth ; put in at three rackings, one-third at each. 

With regard to the saccharometer I am of opinion, that if it were in general use, the character 
of home-made wines would be greatly improved: and that it is impossible, without its aid, to 
make, from year to year, a regular and well manufactured wine. The seasons in this climate are 
so precarious, that the fruit in some years will yield, at the least, one quarter more saccharine 
matter than in others; and by following the generality of receipts, in favourable seasons, we shall 
have a rich, well tasted, excellent wine ; in others, (although adhering strictly to the same 
methods), a thin and greatly inferior wine. By using this intrument, we find in bad seasons the 
deficiency of “gravity ; in good seasons, the increase. The known evil can be easily remedied 
by an extra quantity of unadulterated juice, sufficient to bring up the gravity as high as we find 
by experience is requisite. We, allof us, Iam convinced, greatly err in using too much sugar ; 
and were we to bring up our gravities by an extra quantity of fruit, sugar might, perhaps, be com- 
pletely dispensed with. Home-made wines would then in every respect resemble foreign, and be 
far superior to what they now are. 

With regard to the fermentation, I find the greatest advantage from the frequent racking off 
our wine from the lees, as well to give it an opportunity of fining more effectually, as to restrain 
in some degree the fermentation, which might otherwise proceed from the vinous to the acetous, 
and thus produce vinegar instead of wine, which is sometimes the case. Yet the moderate check 
it receives from the frequent racking, is not sufficient to obtain the desirable attenuation. So long 
as any portion of the sweet continues to exist, the fermentation will go on; and this I have 
often experienced after wine has been bottled for many months. The frequent rackings will 
contribute to the soundness and preservation of the wine, no less than to its clearness and 
spirituosity. 

I have found the average specific gravity of home made wines, when a twelvemonth old, to be 
from 30to 50. Whereas a well manufactured wine will never exceed the weight of water ; as is 
the case with all good foreign wines. The last specific gravity before fermentation I adopt, aver- 
ages 120 Allan’s instrument. 

The instrument is expensive certainly when purchased merely for this use; but, if the 
method appears to you desirable, I have no doubt Mr. ALLAN could make an instrument of glass 
for ten or twelve shillings, which would answer the purpose very well, if the use of it were 
fully explained to him. 


The Caledonian Society's quarterly Meeting for the.election of office- 
bearers for the ensuing year, was held in November, when a number of 
prizes were awarded; among others, a medal for long service to Mr. 
Thomas Pattison, gardener to Walter Campbell, Esq. of Shawfield. 

Latalogue of the Glasgow Botanic Garden, dated July 1st, 1825. Dr. 
‘Hooker has published a catalogue of the plants in this garden, which at 
a rough estimate appears to contain about seven or eight thousand species, 
besides “ many others, which are either entirely new and undescribed, or 
which, from the circumstance of their not having yet blossomed, cannot 
be accurately determined.’ The object of the catalogue is “ to increase 
still further the collection ;” the arrangement is alphabetical, as the most 
convenient for reference. To avoid the necessity of giving synonymes, 
the generic and specific names are the same as those employed in the 
nomenclator botanicus of Dr. Steudel, with the exceptions of the orchidiz, 
in which the nomenclature of Brown has been preferred. 

The ferns are not included in the alphabet, but are arranged systema- 


9A Domestic Notices. 


tically at the end of the work ; they amount to a hundred and twenty-five 
species, of twenty-nine genera. There are in the catalogue, 69 species of 
Campanula, 218 of Erica, 46 of Iris, 159 of Mesembryanthemum, 107 
of Salix, 58 of Saxifraga, 50 of Silene, 49 of Trifolium, and 72 of Veronica. 

“The Glasgow Botanic Garden, since elevated to a Royal Institution, 
was only founded in the year 1817; and it must be a source of high gra- 
tification to those individuals who have been instrumental in the form- 
ation and support of the establishment, to see in how short a time it has 
been made to contain a collection of plants, which is surpassed by few 
in the kingdom.” 

Pomme. de deux Ans. At a meeting of the Caledonian Horticultural 
Society, held on the 31st of August last, Dr. Duncan presented two apples 
of this variety, which had been pulled by him in his garden that morning 
from the same tree. They grew within six inches of each other; the one 
was the produce of blossom in spring 1824, and was the fruit of last 
year; the other was from the blossom of spring 1825, and the fruit of 
the present year. 


IRELAND. 


Country Seats in Ireland, omitted in the Encyclopedia of Gardening, com- 
municated by Mr. Forbes, gardener to the Duke of Bedford, Woburn 
Abbey. 


Rockingham, near Boyle, Lord Lorton’s, co. Roscommon. A magni- 
ficient mansion, from the designs of Nash of London, and executed by 
Lynn. It is situated on an eminence commanding some fine picturesque 
views, and a lake of several miles extent, that washes the verge of the lawn, 
and surrounds an ancient castle, still inhabited by a part of the establish- 
ment. There is also a hardy heath garden, adjoining a handsome bridge 
lately erected across a narrow part of the lake to an island of considerable 
extent. The kitchen garden, one of the best in the kingdom, with a very 
extensive range of hot-houses. The pleasure grounds and flower garden 
tastefully laid out, and the whole kept in the neatest order. 

Strokestown House, Strokestown, Lord Hartland’s, co. Roscommon. 
An ancient residence, greatly improved by Lynn in1819. The demesne 
contains above a thousand acres, beautifully varied with wood and water, 
and a good kitchen garden. 

Castlerea House, Castlerea, Lord Mountsandford, co. Roscommon. An 
ancient house and extensive gardens, abounding with many rare plants. 

Moat Park, near Roscommon, Lord Crofton. An excellent house and 
extensive demesne remarkable for its fine old oak timber. 

Courtown House, near Gorey, co. Wexford, Earl of Courtown. An 
ancient residence with extensive grounds, beautifully varied, and an ex- 
cellent kitchen garden, with a very handsome flower garden, on different 
levels, and also a choice collection of American plants in several parts of 
the demesne. 4 

Shelton Abbey, near Arklow, Earl Wicklow, co. Wicklow. A magni- 
ficent building, situated in a valley, surrounded by extensive oak plan- 
tations. The river Arklow passes within a few yards of the abbey. 

Lyons, Lord Cloncurry, co. Kildare. A noble house, greatly im- 
proved by the present proprietor. There is a fine sheet of water in front. 
Ne the opposite side, there is a hill beautifully planted, commanding some 

ne views. 


New Zealand Hemp (Phormium tenax). ‘This plant has grown in the open 
air in the counties of Waterford, Cork, Limerick, Louth, Wicklow, and 
Dublin, for the last thirty years, as an ornamental plant. During that time it 
has only suffered once or twice in the extremities of the leaves from the most 


Biography. — Obituary. 95 


severe frosts. Six leaves give an ounce of dried fibres, which it is calculated 
will exceed per acre the produce of either flax or hemp. It may be ob- 
served, however, that the separation of these fibres from the matter of the 
leaf is not at present understood. Whether the cultivation of this plant 
is ever likely to become an object of importance to Ireland may, we are 
sorry to say, be almost doubted. At least the experience upon the subject 
in New South Wales is against it. A company was some years since 
established in that colony for collecting the plant in New Zealand, and for 
rearing it at Port Jackson. Both schemes proved unsuccessful; the former 
from the plant being by no means common enough in New Zealand to pay 
for the trouble of collecting it: the latter from the long space of time 
which was required to bring the plants to perfection. Both plans were 
also impeded by the great difficulty which was experienced in reducing the 
fibres of the leaves to a marketable state as flax. 

Rearing of Silk Worms. Much interest has been excited by the oper- 
ations of a joint stock company formed for the truly patriotic purpose of 
providing employment for the poor of the south of Ireland by the rearing 
of the silk worm. This interest has been increased by the knowledge that 
the assistance of his majesty’s ministers has been liberally accorded in 
every way which has appeared likely to prove advantageous to the scheme, 
and by the strenuous exertions made in its support by the Earl of Kingston 
and other powerful Irish noblemen. In the spring of 1825 a nursery was 
established near Cork, upon the estate of the Earl of Kingston, as a cen- 
tral depot whence mulberry plants might be distributed to all parts of the 
country, and another for similar purposes in Devonshire; and we believe, 
that during the summer which has just passed, all proper means have been 
taken by Lord Auckland, the most active director of the company, for 
forwarding its ends. 

We sincerely hope that this plan will proceed, notwithstanding the diffi- 
culties which may be expected to impede it from the unfavourable nature 
of our climate. Perhaps we may pursue this matter further in a future 
number. 


Art. II. Biography. 


Under this head we should be happy to collect some notices respecting 
the lives of eminent gardeners, or promoters of gardening, long since de- 
ceased ; and where we can, we should also be glad to engrave their por- 
traits. The following are a few names, respecting which the smallest 
degree of information would be interesting: Tradescant, Rea, Rose, 
Cooke, Meager, Read, London, Wise, Lucre, Field, Switzer, Langley, 
Furber, Gray of Fulham, Rocque, Justice, Hitt, Powell, Weston, and espe- 
cially Wheatley; all authors of whom very little is known. Any inform- 
ation would also be very acceptable respecting the following garden artists, 
or any others whose names do not occur to us: Bridgeman, Robinson, 
Brown, Havorfield, Eames, White, Ramsey, Meickle, &c. 


Art. IV. Obituary. 


We have to record the death of Mr. William Ross, F. L. S. H. S., a re- 
spectable nurseryman at Stoke Newington. Mr. Ross’s father came to 
England from the south of Scotland early in the last century; and after 
being some years in service as a gentleman’s gardener, he commenced cul- 
tivating vegetables for sale at Stoke Newington, and passed the remainder 
of his life there. His son, the subject of this memoir, was born and edu- 


46 Queries. 


cated at Newington, where he carried on the same business as his father 
for some years; but having acquired a taste for hotany and drawing, he gra- 
dually turned his market garden into a nursery for trees. This piece of 
ground was at first of three or four acres of extent, but he gave up, for brick 
making and buiiding, one part of it after another, till at last he reduced it 
to little more than half an acre. In this small space he cultivated an ex- 
tensive collection of curious plants, particularly Alpines and Succulents. 
He raised one or two new species of Mesembryanthemum from Cape 
seeds, and several Camellias, some of which have not flowered; and for 
one, known as Ross’s Seedling, he received a medal from the Horticultural 
Society. -He was one of the few cultivators who succeeded in ripening 
seeds, and raising seedling plants from the Strelitzia Regine, which he did 
to a considerable extent. 

The taste of Mr. Ross for small ponds and artificial rock-work was at 
one time such, that he got apparatus for boring for water, and intended to 
turn his skill in this way to account, by finding a supply for any one who 
might employ him. He was frequently applied to to fit up little jets-d’eau, 
and ornament them with shells, flints, and rock-work, and various specimens 
of his skill in this way may be seen in the flower-gardens about Stoke- 
Newington. A sudden illness, however, put a stop to his progress as a 
well-sinker; but he lived several years afterwards to enjoy his garden, and 
the comfort and solace of two well-educated daughters, fond of the same 
pursuits as himself. He had lost his wife several years before, and night 
fell upon himself in his 62d year, on the 14th day of November last. He 
was buried in the church yard of the parish, where a stone is erected to 
his memory. 


r 


Art. V.. Queries. 


A correspondent wishes to know the best mode of bagging grapes; and 
one who styles himself a “‘ Constant Reader,” (inadvertently we presume,) 
asks how he may best grow and bloom the yellow rose. We may observe 
here, that it is not our intention, as guardians of the six printed sheets 
which we mean quarterly to issue to the public, to insert letters of queries 
at length, but only to give their substance, and also the substance of their 
answers. 


NOTICES TO CORRESPONDENTS. 


The account of the conservatory at the Grange is necessarily postponed 
till next number, owing to Mr. Sylvester’s dilatoriness in sending us the 
description of his mode of heating that conservatory, which, though pro- 
mised by the 1st of December, is not yet (26th) received. 

Professor La Gasca’s paper on the Gardening of Spain, that of Mr. Mack- 
intosh on a New Verge Cutter, and of Mr. Duff on the Cranberry, shall 
appear In our next. 

Communications to be addressed to the Conductor, Bayswater, London; 
Advertisements for Part IV. may either be sent there or to the Publishers. 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
pe APRIL, 1826. : 


PART I. 
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


" 


Art. I. On the Benefits to be derived by the Country Labourer 
froma Garden, and the Means of teaching him how to ac- 
quire those Benefits. By Wiu11amM Stevenson, Esq. 
Author of the Agricultural Surveys of Surrey and Dorset- 
shire, &c. 


SiR, 

HE Introduction to the first Number of your Gardener’s 
Magazine has one singularity, which distinguishes it from 

all introductions I ever read: so far from exhausting the subjects 
which your Magazine, from its title and character may be ex- 
pected to contain, and being so lavish in your promises of ad- 
vantages to be derived from it, as to stir up doubts in my mind, 
whether with all your own industry and knowledge, aided by 
those of a numerous correspondence, you will be able to accom- 
plish them, it seems to me that you have entirely neglected 
one most important benefit, which through your Magazine 
may be conferred on the great mass of the country population. 
The activity and enthusiasm lately displayed for the instruc- 
tion and improvement of all classes of mechanics, and the 
consequent amelioration of their condition, and opening unto 
them new sources of utility and happiness, are highly cre- 
ditable to the age in which we live. But these advantages 
are from their very nature confined to the town population 
of this kingdom. Institutions, associations, and lectures, may 
be carried on in towns, but they are impracticable in the 
country, where the. population is thinly scattered. In towns, 
mechanics, by mutual collision, while they are at work, and 
at other times, strike out new ideas, and thus benefit one 
another; but in the country this can seldom be the case. 
In short, it seems to me, that, by the present measures for 

Worle No. 2: I 


102 How to teach a Laborer 


the instruction of the mass of the people, the working classes 
in towns will be enabled to get greatly in advance of those 
in the country; and I am sure, of all classes, the country 
population most require the expansion of their minds, and in 
the end, by this expansion, will most conduce to the real 
wealth and stability of their country. 

But, you will ask, in what manner can the Gardener’s 
Magazine be rendered conducive to this object, which all 
must allow to be one of the highest interest and importance. 
I will briefly sketch out a plan, which, if followed, will 
enable your Magazine to become, at least, in some degree 
and manner conducive to this object. But, remember, having 
sketched out such a plan, I leave it entirely to you and your 
readers properly and fully to execute it. 

It is extremely difficult to lead on men, who have not been 
accustomed to the exercise of their thoughts, and to derive 
gratification from that exercise, to any mental pursuit: you 
must at first make use of the gross motives of advantage. 
Thus, it would be difficult to draw off a peasant from the 
ale-house to the cultivation of his garden, by merely expatiat- 
ing on the interest and pleasure derived from such cultivation ; 
you must first get him into his garden, by proving to him, 
that by its proper cultivation he may benefit his health, save 
his money, and cheaply contribute to some of his animal 
gratifications. Having thus drawn him into it, and excited 
his interest regarding what grows there, and chiefly because 
by means of his garden his meals may be rendered less costly 
to his purse, and more agreeable to his palate, you may 
gradually unfold to him higher and more intellectual motives 
for cultivating it, and the prospect of new sources of enjoy- 
ment to be derived from its cultivation. 

These remarks contain the principle on which my plan 
proceeds. I shall now go into its detail : 

I should wish to see in your Magazine a series of papers 
on the following subjects : 

1. Papers that would teach the peasant, in a very plain, 
explicit, and full manner, how he might derive from his 
garden, at the least expence of time, labour, and money, the 
largest contributions to his own meals and those of his family. 
You must suppose he has just entered on his garden; and 
that it requires to have every thing done for it: its soil im- 
proved, draining, inclosing, &c. After instructions on these 
topics, give him instructions respecting the kinds of vegetables 
and fruits, which it will be most for his benefit (always taking 
into consideration the saving of time and money), to cultivate. 

We will suppose that by the assistance of your instruc- 
tions he has succeeded in making a good garden, and that he 


to benefit by his Garden. 103 


has raised in it excellent vegetables and’ fruits, and a con- 
siderable variety of them ; for that is a consideration of great 
moment, as conducing to give to the interest he takes in his 
garden a more expanded ‘and a deeper stability. You must 
not yet leave him to himself; but, stepping a little out of 
your: proper character, teach him in what manner to use 
these vegetables and fruits, so as to derive from them the 
greatest ‘nourishment and relish: I add relish, and I parti- 
cularly and emphatically dwell upon it; becatise we must 
enlist animal gratification on our side, other wise we shall never 
be able to effect a lodgment in the mind. Do you or your 
readers, therefore, instruct the peasant population fully and 
clearly how they may best keep their vegetables and_ fruits, 
after'they have, by attention to your rules, raised them ;. how 
they may best pickle or preserve such as are suited for these 
purposes; and in what manner they should cook them, so as 
to render them most nutritious, palatable, and economical. 
It is unnecessary for me to go into further detail; many subor- 
dinate and collateral points, connected with this division of 
the plan, will suggest themselves to you and your readers. 

2. Having thus succeeded in creating an interest in the 
mind of the peasant for his garden, by connecting his own 
benefit and gratification, with proper attention to it, we may 
proceed one step farther, and, taking advantage of that interest, 
and of that fondness for flowers, which seems almost natural 
to man, direct his thoughts and wishes next to their 
cultivation. On this point your Magazine might be of essen- 
tial service. I do not mean by merely teaching him, what 
flowers best suit certain soils and climates, or how they are to 
be managed during the whole of their progress; but by im- 
proving his taste. ‘Teach him in what manner to select and 
arrange his flowers, so as best to please the eye; and by 
degrees give him reasons for such selection and arrangement ; 
first, however, give him time to perceive from his own observ- 
ation and experience, that his eye and taste are most pleased 
by a certain selection and arrangement; and then enter on 
the most simple and obvious reasons why they should be so. 

We have now got our peasant one degree above mere 
profit and animal gratification, with respect to the motives 
which lead him to attend to his garden: but we must not yet 
give up these auxiliaries, nor think our cause degraded by 
their assistance. 

3. In the course of tenting him that his vegetables and 
fruits will thrive best in certain soils, or with certain manures, 
an easy, natural, and obvious transition may be made to the 
causes why this is the case, and his attention and interest 


being thus excited, a considerable degree of instruction may 
To? 


104 Laborers’ Gardens. 

be given in the more simple and elementary points of veget- 
able physiology. But one grand object must never be lost 
sight of —to induce and enable him to become his own in- 
structor; and this must be effected, by gradually leading him 
to make observations on what is daily going on among his 
vegetables and fruits — the greater vigour and quicker growth 
of.some; and thence an investigation into the causes. ‘Teach 
him to take an interest in his garden; and then he will soon 
use his eyes when in it; he cannot long use his eyes, before his 
thoughts will be exercised; and this is all that is necessary to 
render him first a good gardener, and next a tolerable botanist 
and physiologist. 

One great advantage our peasant possesses over the town 
mechanic. Nature is constantly making experiments for the 
former, she is every moment at work under his eyes, he has 
only to see and think, and what she does is more beautiful 
and astonishing than any thing man can do. Whereas the 
town mechanic must either make experiments himself, or 
attend to those of others. Besides the difficulty, or perhaps 
impracticability of the first, and the conveniences attending 
the second, he cannot watch the processes and results of the ex- 
periments so attentively, solong, or so repeatedly as the pea- 
sant can do those which Nature is carrying on under his eyes. 

4. But we may render our peasant still better informed, 
and thus multiply his sources of utility and enjoyment. Here 
also we ought to work by means of gross motives. In giving 
him instructions regarding his vegetables, fruits, and flowers, 
you will, of course, point out to him the depredations com- 
mitted on them by various kinds of insects, &c. and the best 
manner in which they can be protected from these depredations; 
this unfolds a very obvious mode for drawing his attention 
and interest to one branch of natural history; as it certainly 
would be no difficult matter to lead him to study the habits 
and actions, if not the structure of the insects that frequent or 
infest his garden. In order to protect his vegetables, fruits, 
and flowers from them, he must know something abcut them, 
he must feel some interest about them; and this feeling and 
knowledge, properly taken advantage of, will lead our 
peasant to instruct himself, by his own observation and ex- 
perience, in the more easy and pleasing parts of insectology. 

I may be too sanguine in the results I expect from such a 
series of papers as I have described ; but I cannot help think- 
ing, that by means of them, not only may the peasant 
population be enabled to derive from their garden a more 
abundant, various, and better supply of vegetables and fruits 
for their table, at less expence of time and money; and to 
cook them in such a manner, as will be at once more eco- 


Conservatory at the Grange. 105 


nomical, and render them more wholesome, nutritious, and 
palatable ; not only may the peasant population be enabled to 
cultivate flowers with skill and success, to take an interest in 
their cultivation, and to improve their taste, and thus multiply 
their sources of innocent pleasure ; not only may the peasant 
be enabled by such a series of papers, to teach himself much 
on botany, vegetable physiology, and insectology, and by 
watching Nature as she is at work in his flowers, vegetables, 
and fruit trees, and in the insects that frequent adhere. raise 
and purify his thoughts; but I do hope and believe, that by 
such a series of papers, a few, at least, may be called forth 
from the ignorance and obscurity in which they otherwise 
would Ines dwelt, and be rendered useful contributors to 
these branches of sciences. Much still remains to be learnt, 
which can only or best be learned by those who use their eyes 
and thoughts while in a garden; much, especially, respecting 
the manners, habits, and economy of the various tribes of 
minute insects which frequent a garden. 

If, therefore, by such a series of papers this branch of natural 
history is advanced, you will indirectly have done service to 
science ; but whether this be the result or not, such a series 
must tend to benefit the peasant population, by increasing 
at once the sources from which their animal wants and 
gratifications are supplied, and opening to them, by the 
cultivation of their minds, new sources of much higher utility 
and pleasure. I trust, therefore, you will set yourself and your 
friends to work, and begin the series immediately, 

I am, Yours, &c. 
W. STEVENSON. 

3, Beaufort Row, Chelsea. 

21st February 1826. 


Art. II. Some Account of a Conservatory lately erected at the 
Grange, the Seat of Alexander Baring, Esq. M.P., Hamp- 
shire. By Mr. Perer M‘Arruur, F.H.S. Gardener there ; 
with a preliminary notice respecting the Architecture ue the 
Mansion, by an Anonymous Contributor. 


Tue Grange was ihe seat of the Lord Chancellor Fisde: 
and the house is one of the best works of Inigo Jones. The 
architecture of the interior; in particular the hall, cor- 
ridorés, and staircase, and the saloon on the first floor, have 
been celebrated by Walpole and others, as amongst the finest 
specimens of his taste. ‘The original building consisted of the 
Italian square villa; the ground floor containing a suit of low 
rooms; and the first floor being reserved, according to the fa- 
shions of those days, for the best living apartments, was laid out 

13 


106 Conservatory at the Grange. 


with all the proportion and effect of which the space was capable, 
and approached by a stately and well-contrived staircase — 
a disposition which seems peculiarly appropriate to situations 
like the Grange, where the advantage cf elevation commands 
an extensive view over a fine country, well wooded, and 
with great variety of landscape. The Grange has always: been 
a favourite spot in the annals of taste, and contained, at one 
time, a very fine and curious collection of paintings. 

A few years ago, Mr. Drummond, in whose possession it 
then was, Coneened the idea of converting the exterior into 
the aspect of a Grecian temple, (fig.11.) which was ac- 


complished with great skill © Mr. Wilkins, as far as that 
object was concerned. The: basement was formed into a 
magnificent pedestal forthe portico, and the attic story, and 
its roof) were suppressed and concealed behind a massive in- 
tablature. Itisa question, (which however is not the subject at 
present,) how far those cumbrous proportions, and that Doric 
severity, which according to Vitruvius were reserved to honor 
the major deities, are applicable to the purposes: of villa 
architecture. 

Be that as it may, situated on a gentle declivity, and slop- 
ing towards a fine piece of living water, with terraces surround- 
ing the east and west fronts, embosomed in wood which 
covers the surrounding heights, and approached by mag- 
nificent avenues, it has the effect in the landscape, of those 
ideal scenes, which indulged only in the painter’s imagination 
are hardly expected to be realized in nature. Those ponderous * 
proportions which encumber the spectator on a near approach, 
like the tragic mask, communicate in the distant view all the 
characteristic traits that belong to that severe architecture, 
and give all its expression. 

The present taste of the exterior is not more in accordance 
with the original architecture than with its real convenience, 


Conservatory at the Grange. 107 


which has suffered considerably in the adaptation of the 
templar style, and by heightening the ground floor in com- 
pliance with the modern habits, without acquiring those 
noble proportions of which this operation has totally deprived 
the upper floor, and which the great designer knew so well 
how to give. In consequence of these inconveniences, the 
present proprietor has found it necessary to make some 
extensive additions, which have been made from the designs 
of C. R. Cockerell, Esq. Jun. a distinguished student of the 
Grecian style of art. 

These additions consist of a dining-room to the north- 
east, and a range of most agreeable living apartments to the 
south-west, terminated by a conservatory 70 by 46 and 21 feet 
high. Into this spacious area of perpetual spring, are direct- 
ed the windows of those apartments dedicated to ‘the ladies. 

The ornamental scenery, immediately surrounding the 
garden, fronting the house, partakes of the symmetry “of its 
erenueenne. it is not entirely finished, but will be heightened 
with all the care and taste for whieh the liberal possessor is so 
distinguished. 

The entrance front is approached by an avenue, seemingly 
coeval with the original building; it enters a court (fig 12. a) 


12 


: 


- 


——=- 


iho 
Ne = is oo 4 
SS 26 oO 


108 Conservatory at the Grange. 


inclosed by a dwarf wall, and the door of the house is under a 
porch of isolated square pilasters, in imitation of the Choragic 
monument of Thrasybulus at Athens. The suite of rooms 
leads from the hall and staircase (6) to the dining-room (e); 
thence to the ladies’ apartments (d) and conservatory (e). 
Part of the conservatory is a promenade under an opaque roof 
(f), approached by a deep portico (g), the floor of which is on 
the same level with the upper terrace (2). From this terrace, 
different flights of steps descend to one on a lower level 
(2) connected with the site of a flower- garden ; ee as 
before observed, is not yet completed. 


Description of the Mode of preparing the Soil, Planting §c. 
with a List of the Plants in the Conservatory at the Grange. 
By Mr. Mc. Arruor. 


Dear Sir ; 


- AGREEABLY to your request, I send you some account of 
the Conservatory at this place, as far as regards the hor- 
ticultural arrangements ; accompanied with a section, in order 
to illustrate what observations I have to make; and that they 
may be made in as few words as possible. 

The house (fig.12. e), except the vestibule (f), which forms 
an interior portico, is laid out longitudinally into two beds, 
each of which is 15 feet 6 inches wide. The centre walk is 
6 feet 6 inches wide; those at back and front being 4 feet 9 
inches. 


The walks (fig. 13.) are under an arched, covered way, 
formed of double plates of rolled iron (2), Sehrean which is 


Conservatory at the Grange. 109 


confined a stratum of air, to prevent the escape of heat. 
The bottom of the beds (m) are of aconcave form, that the 
drainage may go to the centre ; under each bed there are three 
‘dry wells, filled with large rough flints, laid as hollow as 
possible: as the wells are sunk in the chalk, any drain from 
them was unnecessary. The hollow (nz) along the middle 
was also laid with flints, and the whole bottom covered with a 
layer of brick-bats &c. about 18 inches deep; on this was laid 
a thin layer of coarse shingly gravel, still keeping the concave 
form. ‘The bottom being thus finished, the depth left for 
soil is, in the back bed, along the centre, 4 feet 6 inches ; 
and at the sides 3 feet 6 inches; thus giving the greater depth 
for the large plants in the centre. ‘The front bed, being 
intended for plants generally of a more humble growth, is 
3 feet 6 inches deep along the middle, and at the sides 3 feet. 
These were filled up in the following manner: first with a 
layer of thick rough turf, laid loosely and hollow by doubling 
them up, always keeping the grass side inmost; over this was 
thrown some clean water gravel, just enough to fill the 
hollow left amongst the turf; the layer was about one foot in 
thickness: the turf had been some time cut and exposed 
to the sun and air, &c. The next layer, about the same depth, 
was surface loam with the turf chopped up a little, and mixed 
with the most rooty and heathy part of a quantity of bog or 
heath soil, amongst which was thrown some sandy water 
gravel. While this was doing, care was taken to prevent 
any one from treading upon what was already laid. Thus 
far both beds were treated alike; and excepting in the front 
one, both layers were only about 18 inches in thickness. 

The following four soils were previously prepared ; viz. light 
dark loam; yellow mellow loam of a stronger quality; sandy 
bog, all cut with the turf laid in ridges, and frequently turned 
until perfectly sweet and mellow; and, the same sort of bog 
soil, only cut more recently, so that the turf was not rotted down 
like the others. For the back bed, the above was mixed in 
nearly equal quantities, to which was added some sandy 
gravel ; this mixture was laid about 2 feet thick and then trod 
evenly over, and near the top the chopped turf was omitted 
and sand substituted in place of gravel. For the front bed 
equal quantities of bog and loam were used, adding the chopped 
turf and small gravel until within a foot of the surface. The 
turf was then omitted, and sand used in place of gravel, 
excepting in two places intended for clumps of camellias ; and 
there two parts of loam and one of bog were used quite up 
to the surface. Allowance was made for the ground set- 
tlng, and when planted, loam, sand, bog, turf, gravel, or 


110 Conservatory at the Grange. 
pot sherds, was used under or about individual plants, as was 
thought necessary or agreeable to their different natures. 

Along the back wall there is a border eighteen inches wide, 
drained and filled with soil in a similar manner to the beds. 
In this border is planted the geraniums and climbing plants 
which cover the back wall of the house, which is trellised with 
wire. At each pilaster, along the front and ends, are small 
beds of mould, in which are planted the climbers that run up 
the iron columns which face the pilasters. 

When finished, the soil in the middle of the beds was from 
nine to twelve inches higher than the level of the walks, and 
rounded down to them. Along the walks, which are of Port- 
land stone, is a curb of the same, two inches high by one and 
a half inch, rounded off at the top; this prevents the soil 
getting upon the walks when watering, and makes a good 
finish. ‘The plants are all planted out in the beds, and grow 
luxuriantly, with scarcely an exception, although consisting 
of a collection of our best green-house plants, and some 
generally thought too tender for the conservatory. 

The following are some of the principal and most con- 


spicuous sorts: — - 


Acacia alata, 
dealbata, 
longissima, 
pubescens, 
——— pulchella, 
speciosa, 
venusta, 

and several others, 
Acrostichum alcicorne, 
Andersoniasprengelioid. 
Aralia sp. Nepal, 
Araucaria Braziliensis, 

two varieties, 
Ardisia crenulata, 
Azalea indica, 

fl. pl. albo, 
——.-— purpureo, 
Banksia speciosa, 
coccinea, 
dentata, 
mula, 
australis, 
integrifolia, 
verticillata, 
littoralis, 
latifolia, 
oblongifolia, 
&e. &c. 

Beaufortia decussata, 
Boronia pinnata, 
— selrulata, 


TTTTH 


Brachysema latifolium, 


Brexia Madagascariens. 


Brugmansia arborea, 
Burchellia capensis, 
Callicoma serratifolia, 
Calodendron capense, 
Calostemon speciosum 
Calothamnus villosa, 
Camellia Japonica, 
sasanqua, 


Canna iridiflora, 
Citrus decumana, 
—— limonium, 

— nobilis, &c. 
Correa speciosum, 
Crowea saligna, 
Cussonia thyrsiflora, 
Diosma fragrans, 


and eight other species, 


Dryandra longifolia, 
——-— floribunda, 
- formosa, &c. 
Elzocarpus cyaneus, 


— ros. &c. 


Eugenia australis, 
———- jambos, &c. 
Eutaxia myrtifolia, 
Ficus elastica, 
Fuchsia gracilis, 
— arborea, 
macrostemon, 
——— apetala, &c. 
Gastrolobium bilobum, 
Gnidia pinifolia, 
Grevillea sericea, 
Hibiscus Patersonia, 
Hovea celsi, ( 
Jacaranda mimoszefolia, 
Lambertia formosa 
Lantana mista, 
Lasiopetalum, 5 species, 
Laurus glauca, 
and other species, 
Lomatia silaifolia, 
Magnolia conspicua, 
fuscata, 
annonefolia, 
gracilis, 


Elichrysum prolifer. &c. Melaleuca fulgens, 


Knkianthus quinquefler. 


Hpacris grandiflora, 
and all the species, 


Erythrina sp. nova, Nep. 


decussata, 
pulchella, 
fimbriata, 


&e. &c. 


Eucalyptus pulverulent. Melastoma sanguinea, 


- cordata, 


Metrosideros speciosa, 


Conservatory at the Grange. 111 


Metrosideros lanceolata, Thea bohea, Cissus vitigineus, 
Musa coccinea, viridis, Fuchsia coccinea, 
Myrtus tomentosa, Theophrasta dentata, Glycine, 5 species, 
Nandina domestica, Tristania laurina, Heliotropium sp. 
Nerium odorum, nerifolia, Ipomza sanguinea, 
Olea fragrans, Viburnum odoratissim. ———-— mutabilis, 
Passerina filiformis, Yucca superba, Jasminum 6 species, 
Persoonia linearis, ——- rufo-cincta. Passiflora racemosa, 

- lanceolata, Bact the 4 Hybrid. var. 
Pinus lanceolata, Climbing Plants. edulis, 
Pittosporum, 5 species, Bignonia capreolata, —— maliformis, 
Polygala, 10 species, § -——-—— grandifolia, ©.—— adiantifolia, 
Protea argentea, —- grandiflora, | ———— pedata, 
Psidium cattleyanum, Brachysema latifolium, Rubus moluccanus, 
Rhododendron arbor. .-~————-— undulatum, Testudinaria elephant. 
Stenanthera pinifotia, Bryonia quinquefolia, &c. &c. &e. 


Telopea speciosissima, Ceanothus czruleus, 


In the vestibule, stand plants in boxes or pots; being fine 
specimens, or fine flowering plants, of Orange-trees, Camellias, 
Proteas, the Chinese magnolias, Buonapartea juncea, Croweas 
Gardenias in flower, and Erythrina cristagalli (which last, 
when cut down and forced a little, will flower three times in 
the season), These plants are in flower great part of the 
summer, and are succeeded by camellias, salvia colorata, 
chrysanthemums, geraniums, &c. for the winter, There are 
also, in the recesses of the windows, between the pilasters, small 
stands, seven inches in height, upon which are placed small 
flowering plants in pots. 

Under these stands are the ventilators, which admit the 
current of heated air and steam, together or separately at 
pleasure into the house. 

We give water freely in the summer, generally with the 
rose, and frequently with the engine over head, at the same 
time opening the house, that the superabundant moisture 
may soon dry up. ‘This, in the summer is done in the even- 
ing; and in the spring and autumn in the morning. During 
winter, the plants are watered individually, as their nature or 
state of growth may require ; and at this season steam is sub- 
stituted in place of the engine. 

The water which falls upon the roof is conducted through 
the iron columns which support it into a large tank under the 
portico, and brought up again by a forcing-pump, for the 
supply of the house. 

It is not intended entirely to expose the house, by taking off 
the lights, windows, &c. in the summer; as air can be freely 
and abundantly admitted, both by the windows and roof, inde- 
pendently of Mr. Sylvester’s flues (jig.13. 0); so much so, 
that notwithstanding the great body of glass, during the hottest 
day of last summer, the thermometer in the Conservatory, and 
one out of doors in the shade, stood exactly at the same 
point, viz. 96°. 


112 Ornamental Grass Gardens. 


The ventilation by the heating apparatus I leave to Mr. 
Sylvester to describe. Its full heating power we have not 
yet had occasion to try, not having had any intense frosts. As 
far as it has been tried, I am satisfied that we have gained a 
desideratum in heating large houses. We were at a loss 
how to heat this immense house, steam not being thought 
sufficient unless the pipes were kept above ground; and Mr. 
Sylvester’s hot-air stove, with which he proposed to heat it, 
would have produced too arid an atmosphere for luxurious 
vegetation. I suggested to Mr. Cockerell the possibility of 
combining the two together; he instantly saw the advantage 
to be obtained by so doing, and we have as yet every reason 
to be satisfied with theresult. The medium fire heat kept 
up may be stated at 45 degrees. 

I am, dear Sir, yours, &c. 
P. M‘Artuur. 

The Grange, Nov. 15th, 1825. 


Note. This opinion of Mr. Sylvester’s mode of heating is 
amply confirmed by a subsequent letter from Mr. M‘Arthur, 
dated the 1st of March last, received since the above was 
sent to press. 


Art. III. On Cultivating a Collection of Grasses in Pleasure- 
grounds or Flower-gardens, and on the utility of studying the 
Graminee. By Mr. Grorce Sincrarr, F.L.S., H.S., &c. 


Nurseryman, Author of Hortus Gramineus Woburnensis. 
(Continued from page 29.) 


_ DrirrERENT species of grasses affect different soils and situ- 
ations, but generally in combination ; in few instances solitary. 
The Aira przecox, on elevated, dry, and poor sands, where the 
whole plant scarcely attains half an inch in height, the Fes- 
tuca ovina, Festuca vivipara, Poa alpina, Nardusstricta, Melica 
cerulea, &c. on heaths aud alpine situations, are in general 
solitary, growing in separate tufts or patches; the Arundo 
arenaria, Elymus arenarius, and Festuca rubra, on the blowing 
sands of the sea coast ; the Glycerea fluitans, Aira aquatica, and 
Poa aquatica, in water, are almost the only exceptions to the 
aimost universal law in the natural economy of the grasses, 
viz. that of growing in intimate combination with each other. 
If we may be allowed the expressions, the greater part of this 
family of plants are gregarious, while but few are solitary. In 
a recent publication on the subject of grasses (Hort. Gram. 
Wob. 2d. edit.), the above facts are illustrated by a number 
of details deduced from actual cultivation of the different 
species of grasses during a series of years. ‘The facts there 


Grass Gardens, and their Utility. 113 


brought forward on this point clearly prove that any certain 
soil will maintain a greater, and produce more nutritious 
produce, if cropped with a number of different species of 
grasses, than it will maintain and produce if cropped with 
only one or two species. ‘This is a curious and important 
fact, and which has. been unnoticed in previous works on 
the subject, as well as neglected in practice. If an acre 
of good Jand is sown with three pecks of rye-grass, and one 
peck of the clovers, or trefoil, 470 plants only will be 
maintained on the square foot of such land; if a larger 
quantity of these seeds is sown, whether of these two species, 
or of any other two, the extra number of plants vegetated, 
(which will certainly appear at first if the seeds are good,) 
will decay in a short time, and leave blank spaces to be filled 
up with weeds or spurious grasses; or, in fact, plants of 
different species, supplied by the soil, manure, or neighbouring 
hedges. Butif, instead of two species of grasses, from eight 
to twenty different sorts are sown on the same soil, or that 
now alluded to, a thousand plants will be maintained on the 
same space, and the weight of produce in herbage and in hay 
increased in proportion. (Hort. Gram. Wob. pp. 24. 245.) 
It may be truly said, therefore, that every variety of soil 
and situation, from the alpine rock to water itself, is pro- 
vided with its appropriate grasses, destined for the support of 
animal life, and for covering the soil with the colour most 
pleasing to man. 

The shades of green colour in the herbage of the dif- 
ferent grasses are numerous, and highly interesting, as 
may be proved by applying these varieties of tints to the 
test of the practical system of colours, by that eminent 
artist, G. Hayter, Esq. exhibited in the diagram inserted 
in the Hortus Ericeus Woburnensis; or by comparing at 
the same and at different seasons a select number of the 
leaves of distinct species. ‘The colouring matter of grasses, 
when the saccharine and mucilaginous principles are in 
much less proportion, as is found in the leaves or latter- 
math late in autumn, in general accompanies the solution 
of the constituents of the nutritive matter. After the first 
evaporation of the solution, the green colouring matter may be 
destroyed and again recovered successively, by alternate 
solution and evaporation in water and in alcohol. The im- 
portant law in the natural economy of the grasses before 
alluded to, which provides that a number of many different 
species should always be found intimately combined ; that one 
species should not exist or thrive for any length of time by 
itself, even in its natural soil; and that a greater number of 
plants is maintained on the same soil, and a greater weight 


114 On Grass Gardens, and the Interest and 


of produce obtained by many different species being intimately 
mixed together, than can by any art or means be effected from 
an equal space of ground, by the cultivation of any one or 
two individual species of grass, has lately been made avail- 
able in practice with great success in the formation of rich 
permanent pastures, converted from tillage land, as well as 
in that of artificial pastures of the alternate husbandry. 

But, besides the important uses above enumerated, we may 
observe that the culms or straws of several of the grasses afford 
a most valuable article of manufacture for bonnets, mats, and 
of various ornamental works. ‘The culms of several of the 
perennial grasses afford a material which, in proper hands, may 
be manufactured into an imitation of the Leghorn straw plait, 
far surpassing the original, even the finest of them, in texture 
and in durability. If the subject be properly encouraged by 
the public, and persevered in by the manufacturers, there is 
not a shadow of doubt but that England would become, and 
that at no remote period, an exporter, instead of, as at present, 
an importer of this useful and ornamental part of dress. 

The Elymus arenarius, Arundo arenaria, Festuca rubra, and 
Poa maritima, arrest the inroads of the sea on the land ; their 
habits or tenacity of life are such as to enable them to grow 
and flourish on the blowing sands of the beach, which collect 
around these plants, forming hillocks; the Elymus arenarius, 
being the most robust, occupies and secures the top, while 
the Arunde arenaria secures and supports the sides, and 
the last two species are found straggling on the level sand, 
preparing a foundation for the latter; the creeping Fescue I 
have found on the beach near Skegness, with roots extending 
six feet in length in the blowing sands. 

A consideration of these various properties and important 
uses, peculiar to the different species of grasses, and of which 
a slight and short mention only has now as above been made, 
will be found to infuse itself into every botanical investigation 
of the species, and render the cultivation of a proper collection 
doubly interesting. 

A collection, consisting of from two to four hundred species 
of the most interesting kinds, may be formed and kept up at 
but little trouble and expence.* 

The Hortus Gramineus, in the gardens at Woburn Abbey, 
belonging to the Duke of Bedford, may serve as a model for 
forming such a compartment in a pleasure-ground as is capable 
of affording the pleasure and instruction alluded to in the fore- 
going observations. ‘The spaces allotted to the proper grasses 


* Collections of several hundred species of grass seeds may be obtained 
at Cormack, Son, and Sinelair’s, 53. Regent Street, or New Cross, Surrey. 


Utelity of studying the Graminee. 115 


are in number two hundred and forty-two, of two square feet 
each, inclosed by cast-iron frames. Paths of gravel two feet 
nine inches wide separate the spaces on every side; these are 
surrounded by a path three feet wide, with a border for the her- 
bage plants, such as clover, lucern, saintfoin, vetches, &c. A 
hedge of hornbean separates the compartment from the rest 
of the grounds, and an outside border of roses completes the 
grass-garden. ‘The entrance to it is a Grecian structure, de- 
signed by J. Wyattville, Esq.; the grass-garden was designed 
and executed by myself, then the Duke’s gardener. 

At the Nursery Gardens, New Cross, Surrey, a gorass- 
garden (jig. 14.) has been established, for the supply of seeds 


fi Nei a TERE Hey Fs! Ee sie Paitin : Pah Ee See 
Oe TT LL LL LL LLL docodd tel) | iLL 
18S poosoooooo0eoeoooosoeooce 
AOACHIAA SUB A PO o yy Se) a Se ae 
elafelealalalajale)eataleleta(aiahaleiallatala 
Selalshehelelaletelalelulalalalalal=l=lelelata 
elolatelotalelalelalelalalalalulalalctelalalats 
VOOODHODDODAODODRROOnOobg0ne0n 0 
eohehubalelulalalatalalatelAulelalulslatalala 
alefehelalals)alajalelalalalalalalalalalatala 
falalealulat=lalalalalatalelulalatalaia 


FSBO 


pe 


of all the different species; and, for exhibiting to agriculturists 

and farmers living specimens of the most useful grasses. 

In this garden, a, represents a border for the herbage plants, 
as clover, trefoil, lucern, saintfoin, &c.; likewise for new 
or dubious varieties of grasses, and for experiments and 
trials generally. 

6, A path or walk of sand or gravel. c, Paths between the 
different grasses. d, Spaces inclosed by iron or timber 
borders, for the perennial and known annual grasses. 

e, Border furnished with two rows of roses; the back row 
consisting of moss roses, and the front row of rose unique. 

J; Leaded tubs, or tanks, for the aquatic grasses, or such species 
as live in water. 

g, Hedge of hornbean, holly, box, or privet, to inclose the 
grass-garden, or compartment, from the rest of the surround- 
ing garden or grounds. 

h, Entrance to the grass-garden. 

In planting a grass-garden thus formed, it is of importance 
to suit the different species of plants with their natural soils; 
this is easily effected, as the separation of the spaces allotted to 
each by the gravel or sand paths prevents any admixture 


116 Lombardy Poplar in Park Scenery. 


from the rains, transplanting, or other accidental circumstances. 

The plants should be arranged according to their natural affi- 

nities, as affording the greatest assistance to the memory, and 

presenting the most pleasing general view of the different spe- 

cies constituting the natural order. 

I am, dear Sir, yours very sincerely, 
GrorGE SINCLAIR. 
New Cross Nursery, 
Nov. 30th, 1825- 


Art. IV. Remarks on Mr. Thompson’s Observations on the 
Effect of the Lombardy ‘Poplar in Park Scenery. By 
Ricuarp Morris, Esq. F. L.S., Surveyor and Landscape 
Gardener. 


Tue poplar, as an ornamental tree, does not possess beauty, 
grandeur, or the qualifications of the picturesque; yet in 
combination it may, for the purpose of opposition of charac- 
ter, be introduced into scenery with advantage; and it is 
upon this principle that Mr. Thompson recommends this 
tree to notice. No one can differ from Mr. T. upon the rule 
on which his recommendation rests, “ that horizontal lines 
should be balanced and supported by perpendicular lines ” — 
what induces me to make any comment upon his illus- 
tration of this subject, is to endeavour to prove a better 
adaptation of forms to the scenery presented ; and to show, 
that although horizontal lines require to be balanced and 
supported by perpendicular lines, much depends on the con- 
tour, forms, and outlines of the adjacent objects and scenery. 
Although Mr. T. has studied well the description of his 
subject, he has not succeeded so well in the elucidation. 
In the sketch, No. 1. of his article upon this subject, in 
the first Number of the Gardener’s Magazine, in illus- 
trating his argument, he has introduced perpendicular 
forms which are prejudicial to both pictorial and scenic 
beauty. I agree with Mr. T. that the bridge requires 
perpendicular forms to oppose its horizontal lines, but the 
plantation behind the bridge, where by the intermixtures. of 
poplars an agreeable irregularity of outline is produced, would 
have been sufficient for this purpose, at least as far as poplars 
should contribute their aid.. From the manner in which 
this plantation ranges with the scenery, it was indispensable 
to introduce poplars, otherwise the broad masses of foliage 
would have formed an horizontal and somewhat parallel. line 


On the Poplar in Scenery. 117 


with the top of the bridge, which would have been offen- 
sive to the eye, and would have frustrated the intention. 
Since perpendicular forms are introduced in the fore-ground, 
this plantation at the back, viewed as regards pictori ial effect, 
is unnecessary as a Mean for introducing perpendicular forms. 
Had merely an undulating character been preserved instead 
of so decided an irregularity of outline, the grandeur of the 
‘effect would have been much enhanced; for then the straight 
lines of the bridge, the curved line of the retiring plantation, 
and the rude cutline of the distant mountain, would have 
supported each other mutually. Add to this, that lofty ob- 
jects ever contribute toward a deception; and though this 
deception may sometimes be advantageous, it is more fre- 
quently injurious by causing objects to appear much nearer 
than their true situation, and consequently the distant. scenery 
which they illustrate will appear to approach: the introduction 
of a few poplars in the fore-ground would have been a 
sufficient opposition of forms — this is elucidated in the sketch 


below. (fg. 15.) 15 


Here Refpendenae” ie are eatin in opposition to 
those which are horizontal, in addition to which curved lines 
are introduced, thereby illustrating that curved as well as 
perpendicular lines agreeably oppose horizontal lines; and 
although it be admitted that horizontals require perpendi- 
culars for the purpose of opposition, still it should be remem- 
bered that low and broad, require lofty objects for their 
support: thus, in the fore-ground, broad masses of foliage 
are introduced, mixed with the spiral form of the poy: to 
contrast with them, 

With regard to the introduction of poplars in scenery ge- 
nerally, they should be so dispersed as never to appear alone.: 

Vio." No. 2; K 


118 On the Cedar in Scenery. 


Their decided stiff form is objectionable either in nature or 
in representation, unless supported towards their base by 
some contrasting foliage and forms. In park scenery it would 
be highly objectionable to introduce poplars, either singly or 
in groups, unsupported by any other trees, as their style of 
growth is so much at variance from that natural irregularity 
of character so essential to the picturesque. Where they 
are embodied in plantations of various characters of growth, 
their towering forms may contribute to produce grace, dig- 
nity, or grandeur. ‘The effect of this composition Mr. 
Thompson has happily elucidated in his sketch No. 3. With 
respect to the continued lines of reflection produced in the 
water, I imagine that this would have been considerably 
improved by the introduction of pendant forms, as the weep- 
ing willow, which, assisted by trees of a more circular 
character, in conjunction with that of the poplar, would have 
very much enhanced the beauty of the scenery. 


45. Vincent Square, 
February, 1826. 


Art. V. Remarks on the Effect of the Cedar of Lebanon, in 
Landscape. By Joun THompson, Esq. Pictorial Draughts- 
man, and Student of Landscape Gardening. 


Tue cedar of Lebanon assumes a very romantic and 
imposing appearance, and from its frequent mention in sacred 
history, is ever associated with ideas of grandeur and 
architectural magnificence. There is even something archi- 
tectural in its form; the thick upright stem, supporting the 
horizontal branches, in a great measure accord with the 
pillars and copings of buildings. This may be seen by 
reference to the inspired pictures of Martin, when Assyrian 
history has been the subject of his pencil. — He has realized 
all that the most vivid imagination could conceive of Eastern 
splendour — and the famous hanging gardens have not 
been forgotten. In them the cedar is the most prominent 
tree, which he has shown mixed with cypresses, and a few low 
shrubs and flowers forming a mass simple but grand, and 
quite in unison with the architectural character of the scene. 
The accompanying sketch (fig. 16.) is from an etching of the 
destruction of Babylon, and represents part of the hanging 
gardens. 

Thus it may be inferred that cedars should always be the 
accompaniment of palaces, public buildings, and superior 
residences, though they are seldom met with so situated. 


On the Cedar in Scenery. 119 


The finest I have seen are at Blenheim; but even there 
they are not much contrasted with the architecture, but are 
spread generally throughout the whole of the gardens; and 
they appeared to me in a great measure lost from being so 
mixed up with other trees and shrubs; however, they serve to 
maintain the character of grandeur which belongs to this 
place. On the banks of the great lake, where the present 
Duke, since he left White Knights, has formed his new flower- 
garden, extending from the house to the cascade, there are 
some very fine cedars, and it is curious how wel] they accord 
with the simplicity of flower and garden scenery; but this 
may be accounted for by their being supported by other large 
trees —- from the extensiveness of the gardens, and from 
every thing around being on so grand a scale. For there are 
some garden scenes in which they would be found not only 
misplaced, but out of character and injurious; as im the 
grounds of a small modern villa, such as are to be found five 
or ten miles from town; there they would be quite at variance — 
with our ideas and associations, as to what should attach to 
such aplace. The accompanying sketch (jig. 17.) though it 

17 


== pa —— =, 


forms a tolerable picture, will, I trust, illustrate what I have 

been stating. The villa is rendered insignificant by the 

stately presence of the cedars; and the cedars seem to have 
K 2 


120 On the Cedar in Scenery. 


been there before the villa was built, as if they came by ac- 
cident, and were foreign to the scene. In the next sketch 


(fig. 18.) where I have supplied their place with a few pendent 
18 


a IE 
and appropriate trees, the whole seems more consistent, more 
complete, and in better keeping. 

The form and character of the cedar is not suited to any 
thing on a small scale, or that betrays want of effect in its 
architectural features, or in the disposition of the ground: thus 
one would not place them in the centre of a home meadow, or 
arable field, where oaks and elms are sometimes met with, 
having a very good effect; nor should they ever appear where 
the scenery is either demestic, or homely, or tame. Nothing 
annoys me more than to find a cedar, a cypress, or other 
stately tree, contrasting itself with hay-stacks, and dove-cotes, 
in the garden of some old farm-house, which, though little 
remain of its former greatness, might originally have been the 
residence of the lord of the manor, or some titled person: 
yet some of these old-fashioned red-brick residences are to be 
occasionally met with in their original state; their terraces 
adorned with vases and figures; the gardens in the: old 
geometric stile, with costly iron palisading, &c.; then the 
addition of a few venerable cedars will generally form a highly 
picturesque and pleasing view. 

The cedar will not bear to be planted too thickly, or to 
close together; it should be placed by twos and threes in 
conspicuous situations, such as on small mounds, or by the 
side of water, next bridges or temples ; sometimes on lawns, 
or rising grounds that command extensive prospects, where 
it may serve as a fore-ground; but they must not be made 
common by being seen at every turn: too many of them will 
always destroy their effect, they are of such an exclusive 
character, that they are more calculated to act upon a scene 


On the Cedar in Scenery. 121 


as figures do in landscape composition, than to form the basis 
ofit. A red-coated soldier or two, would enliven a view, but a 
‘file of them would be anything but picturesque: unless, indeed, 
in a battle scene, where they formed the principal feature. So 
it should be with the cedars ; if they must be together, let them 
form a grove; they would then have a character of gloomy 
magnificence, which might be a very fine addition to a 
residence. I should imagine that such a grove of full-grown 
cedars would be highly interesting and attractive. We will 
just suppose that the banks of an artificial river or lake were 
bounded on one side by grassy hills, planted with a few 
evergreens and birches, and that the other side was a gentle 
slope covered with a grove of cedars; that a winding and 
almost natural path conducted you among their ponderous 
stems; that the grass was kept tolerably free from weeds, that 
holly-hock, pzeonies, roses, and other flowers of a large and 
imposing character, were raising their heads here and there, 
and that the woodbine was also twining around some of the 
stems; then suppose a clear summer evening, the water 
reflecting the yellew light of the sunset, and the stems of the 
cedars touched by its rays, and I think we shall have 
conceived one of the calmest and most solemn scenes that _ 
could be found in nature, or that it is in the power of art to 
create. In the annexed sketch (/fg.19.) | have endeavoured to 


19 


convey some idea of the subject, but the smallness of the scale, 
and the absence of colour, are much against my pourtraying 
such a scene. 

I would not recommend the introduction of cedars into 
plantations, or belts, as they are generally lost amidst the 
other foliage; and if brought to the edge, form too 

K 3 


122 On forcing Roses. 


much contrast with what is around them; they may be 
sparingly introduced in clumps, and should always take the 
lead; a few dwarf, round-headed trees or shrubs, with the 
poplar or cypress, are the best to group with them. (fig. 20.) 


However, they are much better solitary ; and in the fore-courts 
of palaces or other buildings of sufficient consequence, I would 
have nothing but a cedar or two. It is said that the new palace 
erecting on ‘the site of Buckingham House is to have a large 
area Beier it, surrounded by a railing of Mosaic gold: — the 
broad carriage-way, the dark grass, and a few cedars, are all 
‘that I wouid introduce in it; unless it were a very few flowering 
shrubs, holly-hocks, or standard roses, and these not in dug 
beds, but on the grass. 

There are two ieedane on a small mound at Sion House ; 
these are seen from the ‘Vhames, and are sure to attract the 
attention of every artist. I have seen numerous sketches 
and drawings of the scene around them, and I may venture to 
say, that it was the cedars, and they only, that were the 
inducement. ‘Those in the Botanic Garden at Chelsea are 
never passed unheeded ; thus showing how valuable they are 
in landscape composition, and consequently in landscape 


gardening. 
No.1. Wellineton Street, Strand. 


Arr. VI. On forcing Roses. By R. A. Sarispury, Esq. 
VR. S., &c. 

Tue most successful method of obtaining these delightful 
flowers in great periection during the winter months, which 
I am acquainted with, is as follows; but it takes three years 
to get them strong e nough to produce a full crop; and I do 
not here include the Chinese roses lately introduced, which, 


On forcing Roses. 123 


under glass, blow naturally at all seasons; but those varieties 
which we only see in summer, especially the Provence, red Pro- 
vence, moss Provence, and white Provence. A few plants of the 
maiden’s blush, damask rose, red rose, and York and Lancaster 
may be admitted after January, but they do not succeed 
sooner. 

Take off strong suckers about the end of October or be- 
ginning of November, with all the fibres they may have formed, 
which can only be well done by digging up the parent stock. 
Plant these suckers in pots only about four inches diameter at 
the top. winding the sucker three, four, or five times round 
the inside of the pot, and prune it more or less according to 
its length, so as to leave no more than two buds, or three at 
most, above ground. Fillthe pots with hazel loam, mixed 
with one third of vegetable mould, pressing it firmly down to 
keep the sucker from starting, and plunge them to the brim 
close to one another, quincunx fashion, in an open bed, fully 
exposed to the sun and air. ‘The small size of these pots 
may surprise many gardeners, but the plant will produce 
stronger blossoms in them than might be supposed, even 
the first year, if the suckers are large; and as they are to be 
shifted annually, it is absolutely necessary to begin with 
small pots.. To have a plentiful supply of blossoms during 
the months of December, January, February, March, April, 
and May, from 100 to 300 suckers must be thus prepared. 

For the plants to be forced = 
from December to March, a 
small frame should be de- 
voted, about twelve feet long, 
five feet wide, seven feet 
high behind, and only six 
or eight inches in front 
(fig. 21.); this pitch I have 
found bh long experience to 
admit the rays of the sun or 
light, at that period, to strike 
upon the plants to the great- 
est advantage. I prefer a 
flue running through the 
whole floor from one end 
to the other, which, if built 
thick, and the fire-place as 
well as chimney-top be well 
closed up, after the heat has 
penetrated the flue, the air 
within will be sufficiently 


Zine 21 


124 * On forcing Roses. 


heated, with very little fuel, and require no attendance at 
night, except in very severe frost. The back of this frame 
may consist of wood, or a narrow brick, at pleasure, and 
Should have a door in the middle, just sufficiently large to 
admit the gardener to creep in and water the plants by reach- 
ing over them from one side to the other, without any walk 
inside. A strong latticed floor must be fixed six inches above 
the flue, on which the pots must be placed when introduced, 
and these must have a pan or receiver under each, not only to 
catch any of the manured water, which I recommend, but to 
prevent the heat of the flue, which will now and then be 
smart, notwithstanding every precaution, from striking directly 
on the pots themselves. After the month of March, roses may 
be advantageously forced in other houses and situations, but 
hardly sooner, except on the front flue of a pine-stove ; and a 
small frame like this is net only built and maintained at a _ 
small cost, but the lights may be used for other crops, especially — 
melons, after June. 

The plants, to be forced into blossom by Christmas day, 
should be placed in this frame on the Ist day of October, 
lighting fires gradually, so as to keep the temperature in the 
day time rather increasing than decreasing from 60 degrees of 
Fahrenheit to 80, but at night much lower; if the plants meet 
with one frosty night or two in the beginning of October, so 
much the better, for they will push more vigorously after the 
heat is applied. The first year, none of the crop will come 
in so early as afterwards, and I advise all the young suckers 
to be forced in succession the first year, not waiting till they 
have had one year’s growth in the open air; moreover if the 
suckers are strong, they will produce more blossoms than 
might be expected. 

Tf the second crop of plants be introduced on the Ist of No- 
vember, they will blossom from the middle of January to the 
middle of February; those of the third crop, introduced on the 
- 1st of December, from the middle of February to the middle of 
March; those of the fourth crop, introduced on the Ist of 
January, from the middle. of March to the middle of April ; 
those of the fifth crop, introduced on the Ist of February, from 
the middle of April to the middle of May; those of the 
sixth and last crop, introduced on the Ist of March, from the 
middle of May till the middle of June ; when several varieties 
in the open ground begin to blossom. 

As soon as the plants begin to push their buds, whether 
any aphides appear upon the young shoots or not, fill the 
frame with tobacco-smoke, and do not fail to repeat this every 
third week till the flowers appear, smoking for the last time 


On. forcing Roses. — 125 


just before any red tints appear on the earliest buds. No 
unpleasant smell of the tobacco will remain upon the plants 
after a day or two. ‘The young shoots must also be care- 
fully examined when only half an inch long, and any grubs 
feeding upon them destroyed. 

After the blossoms are gathered, the plants must not be 
removed to a back shed, but kept in the frame, or brought 
back into it, if they have been taken into the apartments. of 
the owner, permitting them to grow as they do in summer in the 
open air, for at least two or three months. ‘They must then 
be placed in a shady situation, and kept rather dry than 
‘moist, to throw them into a state of rest; after the month 
of May, I prefer inverting them, especially the earlier crops, 
between two planks raised upon tressels, high enough to 
‘prevent the branches from touching the earth, as in the annexed 
sketch (fig. 22.); having for twenty- 
five years experienced the utility 
of this: treatment, and suspecting that 
it strengthens the future blossoms by 
retaining sap in the branches, which ue ) 
would otherwise descend to the root or form suckers. 

While the plants are growing they must be constantly 
supplied with moisture ; that which I employed with great 
advantage consisted of water and pigeon’s dung infused in it 
a few days before, in the proportion of one ounce eto a gallon of 
water. Where pigeon’s dung cannot be ‘had, two ounces of 
sheep or deer’s dung may be substituted to each gallon of 
water. 

It now only remains to add what is the most important 
point of all to attend to in forcing roses, and that is to mark 
all the plants, so that those introduced into the frame in 
October, the first year, may be introduced on the same day 
the second, and every succeeding year; and I know no 
method of doing this so effectually as to paint No. 1, 2, 3, 
&c. upon the pots themselves. Sticks and marks are liable 
to decay, or to be changed by accident or negligence. Every 
year, about a fortnight before the plants are forced, they must 
be shifted into larger pots, exactly one inch wider in diameter 
and not more, turning them out without breaking the ball or 
disturbing any of the fibres, and filling the pots with the 
same compost of hazel loam and vegetable earth. By this 
method the same plants may be forced for ten years with- 
out the inconvenience of using a very large pot, as the last 
season they will not want to be removed, or may be shifted 
into the same pot again. With respect to pruning, I have 
never been in the habit of leaving more than two buds. on 


126 Bishop’s Early Dwarf Pea. 


each branch, and as the plants increase in size and number 
of branches, often only one bud upon the weaker branches ; 
it is much better to have from ten to twenty strong blossoms 
than a larger number of weak ones, and the foliage is like- 
wise more healthy. 


Arr. VII. History, Description, and Mode of Treatment of 
Bishop’s Early Dwarf Pea. By Mr. Davin Bisuop. 
SIR, 

I seNp you some seed of an early pea, which I believe is 
not at all known in England, and only to a few of my friends 
and acquaintance in Scotland; among whom, it has attracted 
considerable attention, and is known by the name of Bishop’s 
Early Dwarf. 

The following is a short historical notice and description, 
with an account of the manner of treatment; which, sbould 
you deem worthy of a place in the Gardener’s Magazine, is at 
your disposal. I obtained this pea some years ago from a 
large sowing of the Spanish Dwarf. At that time it had 
nothing to recommend it to notice, but that of being dwarf and 
early. Indeed it had the appearance of a bad bearer, for 
upon the plant I found, were only two pods; but I considered 
it, even in that state, worthy my attention. I saved its seed, 
and grew it in pots and boxes for two years, and each year 
it increased in productiveness. On the third year I sowed it 
in a warm border, and was happy to find, I had not only 
got an early, and dwarf pea, but at the same time a very 
productive one. 

The height that it attains even in the richest soil, is seldom 
more than twelve inches; but as it produces a great number of 
branches it occupies a considerable breadth. ‘The pods are 
of moderate size, and the peas they contain (jig. 23.a) are 


Jarger than the Karly Frame (4) or even the Charlton. (c) 
23 


The flowers are large, and a border cr plot in bloom has a 
fine appearance. Respecting its productiveness it will be 
found fully to equal either of the above mentioned sorts, and 
in very good soil to surpass them. From its dwarf size, it 
will be found admirably adapted for small gardens ; and for 
an early crop, it may be sown close to the bottom of a wall, 


where it may be easily protected from the Spring frosts, if found 


Bishop's Early Dwarf Pea. 127 


necessary, by placing a board length-wise in front, with 
the upper edges resting on the wall, and the lower on the 
ground. Or, the upper edges may be fixed to the wall, by 
means of hinges, or thongs of leather, and kept tied up in 
good weather, and let down in bad. I have, however, in this 
country, without using any means of protection, gathered a 
dish of good peas on the 23d of May. I have likewise 
sown the produce of peas which came to maturity in June 
and July, and obtained a good crop in the Autumn of the same 
year. But what I consider most worthy of attention is, that 
its dwarfness and earliness point it out to be the only 
fit pea for forcing; and I consider it in the power of every 
gentleman who is possessed of a small pit or peach-house, 
to have young peas at his table, at least during the months 
of April and May. : 

When sown in the open ground, this pea should have 
nearly the same room given it as French beans have; that is, 
about eighteen or twenty inches between the rows, and from one 
inch to two inches between each pea: this will be found quite 
thick enough; and as a quart will go over as much ground 
as a peck does in common cropping, there will be found a 
great saving of seed. 

Iam, Sir, &c. 
New Scone, near Perth, Dav. BisHop. 
10th Dec. 1825. 


P.S. The method of rearing peas in pots and boxes, in 
hot-beds, and hot-houses, and afterwards transplanting them 
out into the open ground, is acommon practice with gardeners, 
and often succeeds very well; particularly if they are not too 
long in transplanting them; but I would recommend a 
method, not so well known, as far preferable to that of pots or 
boxes, particularly when they are to be raised in a hot-bed. 
This consists in having a quantity of turf cut into pieces, of 
about nine or ten inches long, and three or four broad, which 
are placed in a regular manner over the surface of the bed, 
grass side downwards, and a row of peas is sown upon each 
row of turf, and afterwards covered with soil; when they are 
fit for transplanting, no more is required, than to lift out 
the turf, piece by piece, with the peas growing upon it, and 
place them where they are to produce their crop. By this means 
the roots receive no injury; nor does the plants sustain the 
least check in transplanting. This method may be practised, 
with similar success, in the raising of potatoes, beans, &c. 

Note by the Conductor.—We have distributed the peas sent 
us, among Messrs. Malcolm and Gray, Cormack, Son, and 


128 New Mode of Pruning the Peach-tree. 


Sinclair, and some other: eminent seed growers; the Hor- 
ticultural Society have received some from Scotland since ours 
arrived. We consider this pea a most valuable acquisition 
to the horticulturist. 


Art. VIII. On a new Mode of training the Peach-tree, in- | 
vented by Mr. J. Seymour, and communicated by Mr. 
Witiiam Seymour, Gardener at Weddington, and Mr. 
Durr, Gardener to the Earl of Grosvenor, at Eton Hall. 


WE have received two letters on this subject, which, being 
of considerable importance, we shall insert the principal part 
of both of them, and add an explanatory note of our own. 

Sir, 

I wave taken the liberty to inform you of a peach-tree that 
is trained, I believe, in a different manner from any that 
is mentioned in your Encyclopedia. It is growing in the 
cee of Miles Stapleton, Esq. at Carlton, near Snaith, 

orkshire, and was planted, a two years’ old tree, in the year 
1806, and at this time extends forty-five feet, upon a ten feet 
wall, which is perfectly covered with it. It consists of forty-four 
principal leading branches, which are nailed in direct lines, at 
regular distances, in the fan form; each of the leading 
branches is regularly furnished with young shoots from the 
stem to the extreme, and all of these young shoots on the 
upper side. But the greatest peculiarity in this tree is, that 
all the shoots that bare fruit last year, are taken away and 
replaced with young shoots for the present year’s bearing; 
so that there is scarcely any wood more than one year old, 
except the leading branches. ‘The above-mentioned tree, 
with others trained in the same manner, is greatly admired by 
all the gardeners in that part of the country; and those 
gardeners who have seen both them, and Mr. Harrison’s of 
Wortley, look upon the former as superior, both in training 
and the production of fruit. 

Shouldyou be inclined to inquire further as to the above 
account, I should wish to refer you to Mr. Buchanan, of the 
firm of Buchanan and Oldroyd, Camberwell, Surrey ; or Mr. 
James Backhouse of York ; both of them having seen the trees. 

I am, Sir, &c. 
WILLIAM SEYMOUR, 
Gardener to Lionel Place, Esq. 
Weddington, near Nuneaton, Warwickshire, i 
Jan.-21, 1826. ° 


New Mode of Pruning the Peach-tree. 129 


Sir, Eaton Hall, Feb.5, 1826. 

Amonest the various methods of training the peach-tree, 
recommended by different writers on that subject, there is one 
which I have not seen in any author that I have read. A 
short account of it, with a sketch, was sent me a few years 
back, by Mr. J. Seymour, the inventor, at Carlton, near 
Snaith, Yorkshire. Being convinced of its superiority over 
every other system I had seen, I immediately adopted it in as 
near a manner as I could with old trees, and in the following 
manner with all my young ones. 

A maiden plant must be cut down to three eyes, and three 
shoots being produced, the two lower ones are left at full 
length, and the succeeding Spring the centre shoot is again 
cut down to threeeyes. At the time of disbudding the trees, 
all the buds on the lower side of the two horizontal branches 
are rubbed off; and buds are left on the upper side of the 
branches at a distance of from nine to twelye inches from 
each other. ‘These are suffered to grow five or six inches, 
and are then stopped; but still suffering the leading shoot 
to extend itself. At the second Spring pruning, the centre 
shoot is again cut to three eyes ; or, if the tree be very vigorous, 
five eyes may be left; two for each side, and a centre one 
for again furnishing leading shoots. The leading shoots are 
laid in in the fan form, nine or ten inches from each other; 
the shoots on the leading branch are nailed to the wall in 
Summer, but after the Winter’s pruning, they are tied to the 
leading shoots with strands of matting; thus keeping the 
space between the leading shoots clear, for the succeeding 
Summer’s shoots to be nailed in, where they get well ripened, 
and mature their buds for another crop. At the Winter’s 
pruning they are cut to three or four inches, according to 
their strength. 

I visited Carlton in January, 1825, and I never saw more 
healthy and regular trees. Having occasion to write to 
Mr. Seymour lately, I requested him to give me some account 
of a particular peach-tree, trained in this way, which, at the 
time I saw it, I much admired, and the following is an extract 
from his letter. 

“‘ This tree was planted in the year 1806, and has been 
under my management to this present time, 1824. It covers 
Just forty-five feet in length of aten feet wall, which is re- 
gularly covered. It consists of forty-four principal leading 
shoots, which are nailed in direct lines, at equal distances, 
in the fan form; each of the leading shoots is regularly 
furnished with bearing shoots, at about twelve inches 


130 New Mode of Pruning the Peach-tree. 


asunder, from the stem to the extreme point, and all of 
them on the upper side. There is one peculiarity in this 
system of management which is entirely new, that all the 
shoots at the Spring pruning, which bare the fruit the 
last year, excepting the terminal shoots, are all cut away, 
and the places supplied with young shoots for the present 
year’s bearing. By this method we keep our trees regularly 
furnished with young wood in every part of the tree, without 
having the least confusion, and every part gets an equal 
advantage of both sun and air, so that our fruit is large and 
well flavoured, and I have not failed of a regular and good 
crop of fruit for the last sixteen years. It is certainly the 
easiest and most regular method that I have ever seen, 
and answers every purpose which gardeners have been 
aiming at ever since the peach-tree came under their observ- 
ation.” 

When the advantages of this method of training come 
to be known, I have no doubt but it will be generally 
adopted. 

I am, Sir, &c. 
C. Durr. 


Note. — If we understand the above description, then, the 
maiden plant being headed down (jg. 24, a), the first Winter 


will present two side shoots, and the upright shoot shortened 
to three buds (4); the second year at the end of Summer, there 
will be four side shoots, and six or more laterals (c); in the 
following Spring pruning the laterals (d) which had been ° 
nailed to the wall, are loosened and tied to their main shoot 
(e), and the upright shoot shortened to three buds (f) as 
before. 

At the end of the third Summer the laterals will be doubled 
on the old wood, by one having sprung from the base of the 
ae tied in (fig. 25. g), and another from its extremity. 


Professor Dunbar’s Lrice. 131 


In the pruning of the following Spring the laterals of two 
years’ growth which had borne fruit are cut off close, and the 
young laterals which had sprung from their base (_fig. 26. 2), are 


26 
ae sa 
y: 
2p + P 


*S 


loosened from the wall and tied down to succeed them; the 
other laterals (4), are tied in, and the upright shoot short- 
ened (/) as before. 

Now, or before, the side shoots will have to be headed down 
once, or even twice, so as to increase their number, and 
regularly cover the wall. The extent to which this practice is 
carried, will depend on the height of the wall, and the distance 
of the trees from each other; the ultimate object being to 
produce a fan form, as regular as possible, of permanent wood, 
with no young wood thereon besides what is produced along 
the spokes of the fan on their upper side, at about 12 inches 
apart, and the prolongation of the shoots. 


Art. 1X. A Catalogue of Erice, in the Collection of GrorcE 
Dunzar, Esq. F.R. S.E. &c. Professor of Greek in the 
University of Edinburgh. Communicated by the Professor. 

Sir; 
I HAVE sent enclosed with this a catalogue of the Ericee in- 
my possession, that you may insert it, if agreeable, in the 


132 Professor Dunbar’s Erice. 


next, or any subsequent Number of your Gardener’s Maga- 
zine. 1 do not suppose that more than four or five plants are 
wanting to complete the number; though of this I am not 
quite certain, as some old plants have died this Winter, and 
I have not yet had an opportunity of examining whether I 
have others to replace them. My heath-house forms the 
southern extremity of a range of houses, extending in all to 
somewhat more than 100 feet, and fronts the south. (_jig.27.) It 
has abundance of light, as it is lighted on all sides, with the 
exception of about nine or ten feet of a back wall, of the 
height of nine feet. On the north I have a conservatory, fifty 
feet in length, by eighteen in breadth. (a) Next to it is a vinery, 
twelve feet wide, and eighteen or so in length (6): then a small 
stove (c), and adjoining it the heath-house. (d) The form in 
front and at the extremities is somewhat of the following de- 
scription. (jig. 27.) The glass in front in the conservatory is 
27 


four feet and a half in height, and rests upon hewn stone, and - 
is, with the stone, about eight feet from the surface. The 
whole height is rather more than fifteen feet. The back wall 
is of brick: of the same height as the front. ‘The sashes, 
springing from both, meet in the centre, at the height of 
nearly sixteen feet from the surface. If you are acquainted 
with ‘any person here who could take a sketch of the whole, 
you shall be most welcome to obtain it at any time. 

I am much pleased with your Magazine, and think it con- 
tains a great deal of very useful information. If I have any 
information at any future time to communicate, I shall send 
it to you with much pleasure. 


I am, &c. 
Rose Park, near Edinburgh, _ Georcre Dunpar. 
5th February, 1826. 

A. 6. Alopecuroides 12. Arbutiflora 
1. Acuminata 7. Albens 13. Arbuscula 
2. Acuta 8. Ameena 14. Archeria 
3. Acutangularis 9. Ampullacea major 15. Ardens 
4. Ageregata 10. Andromedeeflor. rub. 16. Aristata major 
2 minor 


« Aitonia 11. Arborea 17. 


18. 
19, 
20. 
21 


> 


22, 


25. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
51. 
52. 
35. 
546 
55. 
36. 


37. 
58. 
39. 
40. 
41, 
42, 
43. 
44, 
45, 
46. 
47, 
48. 
49, 
50. 
5}. 
52. 
55. 
54, 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
65. 
94. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 


13. 


Professor Dunbar’s Erice. 


Assurgens 
Australis 
Aurea 


. Actea 


Ampullacea minor 


Baccans 
Bandonia 
Banksia alba 
Barbata major 
Bergiana 
Bicolor 
Biflora 
Blanda - 
Blandfordia 
Bleeria 
Bonplandia 
Bowieana 
Bruniades 
Bucciniformis 
Cc 
Caftra 
Calycina 
Calycina capitata 
Campanulata 
Canescens 
Carinata 
Carneola 
Cerinthoides major 
minor 
————-— alba 
Cernua 
Cistifolia 
Ciliata 
Cinerea 
Claveeflora 
Cliffordia 
Coccinea 
Colorang 
Comosa rubra 
— alba 
Concava 
Concinna 
Conferta 
Congesta 
Conspicua 
Coronata 
Costata 
——-— superba 
Coventryana 
Cruenta 
Cubica major 
minor 
Curviflora 
Cussonia 
Cylindrica 
Cupressina 
Cerifolia 
Vou. I. No. 2. 


D. 
74. Daphneeflora 
75. Daphnoides 
76. Declinata 
77. Decora 
78. Demissa 
79. Densa 
80. Denticulata 
31. Depressa 
82. Dickensonia alba 
85. — rubra 
84. Discolor | 
85. Divaricata 
86. Dioscoridis 
fie 
87. Echiiflora 
88. 
89. Ewerana 
90. Elata 
91. Elegans 
92. Elongata 
95. Empetrifolia 
94, Empetroides 
95. Epistomia 
96. Eriocephala 
97. Erubescens 
98. Ewerana pilosa 
99. ——-— superba 
100. Exsurgens 
101. Exsudans 
102, Expansa 
105. Exerta 
104. Erosa 
F. 
Fastigiata 
Ferruginea 
Filamentosa 
Fimbriata 
Flaccida 
Flagelliformis 
Flammea 
Flava 
—-— albida 
Floribunda 
Florida rubra 
alba 


superba 


105. 
106. 
107. 
108. 
109. 
110. 
111. 
112. 
113. 
114, 
115. 
116. 
117. 
118. 
119. 
120. 
121. 
122. 


Formosa 
Fragrans 
Fulgida 
Fulva 
Furfurosa 
Fascicularis 
kG 
123. Gelida 
124. Gemmifera 
125. Glabra 
126. Glauca 
127. Glomerata 
L 


133 
128. Globosa 
129. Gracilis 
130. Grandiflora 
151. -— humilis 
132. Grandinosa 


H. 
135. Halicacaba 
154. Hibbertia 
155. Hirta 
156. Hirtiflora 
137. Hispidula 
138. Humea 
159. Hyacinthoides 
140. Hybrida 
i41. Horrida major 
142. — minor 
| 
145. Ignescens 
144. Imbecilla 
145. Incana . 


- 146. Inflata 


147. Infundibuliformis 
148. Insalsa 
149. Intertexta 
150. Irbyana 
151. Incarnata 
152. Jasminiflora alba 
153. —— — rubra 
154. Juliana 
155. Jubiana 

K. 
156. Kennedia 
157. Kalmiflora 

L. 
158 Lachneefolia 
159. Lambertia 
160. Lanuginosa 
161. Lawsonia 
162. Leeana 
165. Leucanthera 
164. Linneana 
165. Linneana superba 
166. Linnzoides 
167. Longiflora . 
168. Longipedunculata 
169. Lucida 
170. Lutea 
171. Lactiflora 

_M. 

172. Magnifica 
175. Mammosa major 
174. minor 
175. Margaritacea 
176. Marifolia 
177. Massoni 
178. Melanthera 
179. Melastoma 
180. Metulzeflore 


134 


181. Modesta 
182. Mollissima 
185. Monadelpha 
184 Monsonia 
185. Montana 
186. Mucosa 
187. Mucronata 
18s. Multiflora 
189. Mundula 
190, Muscaria 
191. Mutabilis 
192. Mirabilis 
195. Moschata 
N. 
194, Nidularia 
195. Nigrata 
196. Nitida 
197. Nivea 
198. Noleeflora 
199. Nudiflora 
O. 
200. Obcordata rubra 
201. — alba 
202. Odorata 
203. Oblonga 
204. Ollula 
205. Oppositifolia 
406. Ovata 
207. Obtusifolia 
12 
208. Palustris 
209. Paniculata 
210. Parmentiana 
211. Parviflora 
212. Patersonia major 
213. 
214. 
215. Patens 
216. Pedunculata 
217. Pellucida 
218. Pendula 
219. Persoluta 
220. Perspicua 
221. nana 
222. Perspicuoides 
225. Petiolata 
224. Peziza 
225. Physodes 
226. Phylicoides 
227. Picta 
228. Pilosa 
229. Pinifolia 
230. — elegans 
251. Plukenetia 
232. Plumosa 
255. Precox 
234. Preegnans 
255. Preestans 


rubra 


— minor 


236. Primuloides 
257. Princeps 

258. Procumbens 
259. Propendens 

240. Pubescens major 
241. minor 
242. minima 
245. Pulchella 

244, Pulverulenta 
245. Purialis 

246. Purpurea 

247. Pyramidalis 

248. Pomifera 

249, Pinea 

250. Petiveriana 

251. Pyroleeflora 

252. Pinaster 


255. Quadrangularis 
254. Radiata 

255. Ramentacea 
256. Recurvata 
257. Reflexa alba 
258. rubra 
259. Regerminans 
260. Retorta 

261. Rosea 

262. Rostella 

265. Rubella 

264. Rubens 

265. Rugosa 

266. Rupestris 


267. Sainsburia 
268. Sanguinea 
269. Sanguinolenta 
270. Savillea 

271. Scabriuscula 
272. Scariosa 

275. Schollia 

274. Sebana 

275. Serratifolia 
276. Serrulata 

277. Sexfaria 

278. Shannonia 
279. Smithiana rubra 
280. alba 
281. Solandra 

282. Speciosa 

285. Spiralis 

284. Spumosa 

285. Spuria pallida 
286. translucens 
287. Squamosa 
288. Stellata 

289. Struthiolzeflora 
290 Suaveolens 


Professor Dunbar’s Erice. 


291. Sulphurea 
292. Swainsonia 
295. Sessiliflora 
S. 
294. Taxifolia 
295. Templea 
296. Tenella 
297. Tenuiflora 
298. Tetragona 
299. Thalictriflora 
500. Thunbergii 
501. Thymifolia 
502. Togata 
505. 'Transparens 
504. Triceps 
305. Tricolor 
506. Trossula 
507. Tubiflora 
508. Tumida 
509. Trigona 
310. Tenuicola 
U. & V. 
511. Umbelilata 
512. Urceolaris 
313. Ventricosa 
514. Ventricosa coccinea 


515. —————- alba 
516. superba 
517. - erecta 
518. - nana 


519. Venusta 

520. Vernix 

521. Vernix coccinea 
522. Versicalor 

525. Verticillata 

524. Vestita alba 


525. rosea 
526. purpurea 
527. dncarnata 
528. — coccinea 


229. Viridescens 
550. Viridiflora 
551. Viscaria 
W. 
352. Walkeria 
555. ——-— superba 
Addenda. 
354. Triflora 
555. Tubiflora minor 
356. Rosea alba 
357. Gnaphaloides 
558. Splendens 
559. Mollis 
340. Obbata umbellata 
541. Banksia purpurea 
342. Foliosa 
345. Concolor 
544. Lachnea 


Where a Gardener ought: to be lodged. 135 


545. Arborea squamosa 347. Depressa erecta 349. Setacea 
346. Complanata 548. Flexuosa 550. Aristata minima 


Art. X. On the Evil Effects of a Head Gardener being lodged 
any where else than in his Garden. By a Common Sense 
reforming Gardener. ; 

Sir, 

I nave lately purchased your excellent work, the Encyclo- 
pedia of Gardening, and also the Gardener’s Magazine, both of 
which are exceedingly useful, more particularly to gardeners 
at a distance from the metropolis. Indeed such a work as 
the Magazine has been much wanted of late, and I hope 
will be well supported by gardeners; and I am happy, Sir, 
that in the above works you have so well pointed out the 
moral and religious duties of gardeners, with almost all other 
acquirements belonging to their profession, to all of which 
I coincide with you; but permit me, Sir, to enquire whether 
the gardener in England, placed, as he is, in the housekeeper’s 
room, — I say, whether he can there improve himself? I 
answer, —all that he can do there, admitting it to be an im- 
provement, is, — he may read alittle, play at cards, dance, and 
flirt with ladies’ maids. But in some families of the first rank 
and respectability, the gardener is, as is the case at present with 
myself, a servants’ hall inmate. Now, I ask again, Sir, as 
in the former case, in what way a gardener is to improve 
himself there? Why, if he is haii fellow, well met, with 
the inmates of this last apartment, his improvements are 
entirely out of the question; his amusements, or rather, his 
degradation, is hard at hand, — as drinking, swearing, and low 
language, is as much to be found in such a place, generally 
speaking, as in the ale-house. 

There are many gentlemen, when hiring their gardeners, 
wish them to sleep in the house, to protect their property in 
the absence of the family ; would it not be much better, where 
there is extensive gardens, with forcing houses, &c., for the 
superintendant of such to be placed in or as near to them 
as possible? But it requires no more than common sense 
to see the absurdity of any other arrangement than that 
of a proper house for a head gardener in the garden, where 
at least extensive forcing of any kind is carried on: for 
instead of this being an expence, as gentlemen may think 
it to be, it will be found quite the reverse; for the man who 
takes delight in gardening will then be on the spot, where 
his chief business lies, without trusting to unexperieneed 

L 2 


136 The Palme of Messrs. Loddiges. 


hands, which is often the case with those placed in such 
circumstances as above described; and gardeners are often 
led away by servants and lose their places, more through 
this than any other circumstance. 

Having Sir, intruded thus far on your notice, I hope and 
trust that you and your numerous correspondents will en- 
deavour to impress onthe minds of noblemen and gentlemen 
the evil effects of placing their gardeners any where else but 
in their gardens. 

; Tam, Sir, &c. 
A Common Sense reforming Gardener. 
Feb, 2d, 1826. 


nena a 


Art. XI. Catalogue of the different Species of Palm culti- 
vated in the Stoves of the Hackney Garden. Communi- 
cated by Messrs. LoppicEs. 


Dear Sir, 

WE return you our hearty thanks for your valuable Gar- 
dener’s Magazine, which we assure you has given us a great 
deal of pleasure. ‘The whole plan has our unqualified ap- 
probation ; — we consider it to be just such a thing as has 
been long wanted in this country. The quantity and variety 
of important matter it contains cannot fail to make it univer- 
sally acceptable. We are not aware of any thing that could 
have been better arranged. 

Being just now engaged in making out a new catalogue, 
we enclose you a list of all our palms. They are the most 
important part of our collection, and as nothing is put down 
but what really exists here, perhaps you may think it worth 
inserting in the Magazine; at any rate you have our full 
consent to make whatever use you please of it. 

We remain, Dear Sir, 
Yours truly, 
C. LoppicEs & Sons. 
Hackney, 
Lith February, 1826. 


Palms in the Hackney Garden. 


NATIVE COUNTRY, 


Acrocomia aculeata - - Jamaica. 
globosa - - St. Vincents. 
guianensis - - Demerara 
horrida - - Trinidad. 
minor - - St. Vincents. 
sclerocarpa— - - Brazil. 


The Palme of Messrs. Loddiges. 137 


Acrocomia tenuifrons 
Areca catechu - 
crinita = 
exilis - 
manicot - 
montana o 
oleracea - 
rubra - 
triandra - 
Astrocaryum acaule - 
murumara 
Attalea compta - 
funifera ge 
rossil - 
speciosa - 
spectabilis - 
Bactris guianensis - 
macracantha - 
major - 
Borassus flabelliformis 
Calamus niger - 
verus - 
Carludovica angustifolia 
jamaicensis 
latifolia - 
palmata - 
Caryota urens - 
Chamezedorea fragrans - 
Chamzrops excelsa - 
gracilis - 
guianensis = - 
humilis - 
hystrix - 
serrulata - 
Cocos flexuosa - 
nucifera - 
plumosa = 
Corypha elata - 
glaucescens - 
Taliera - 
umbraculifera 
utan - 
Cycas circinalis - 
glauca - 
revoluta - 
squamosa - 
Desmoncus americanus 
dubius - 
orthocanthos 
polyacanthos 
Diplothemium campestre 
maritimum 
Elais guineensis - 
elanococca - 
pernambucana - 
Elate sylvestris * 
Euterpe globosa - 
pisifera - 


NATIVE COUNTRY. 
Brazil. 
India. 
Mauritius. 
Bourbon. 
Brazil. 
Grenada. 
Janiaica. 
Bourbon. 
India. 
Brazil. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Guiana. 
Pernambuco. 
Trinidad. 
India. 
Ceylon. 
Mauritius and Indian Isles. 
St.Vincents and SouthAmerica. 
Jamaica. 
Grenada and South America. 
Jamaica. 
Bengal. 
Trinidad and Brazil. 
Nepal. 
South America. 
Cayenne. 
Gibraltar and Barbary. 
Florida. 
Georgia. 
Trinidad. 
Between the Tropics generally. 
Brazil. 
Bombay. 
Trinidad. 
India. 
Ceylon. 
Indian Islands. 
India. 
Ditto. 
Ditto and China. 
India. 
St. Vincents. 
Trinidad. 
Ditto. 
Brazil. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
West Africa. 
Mauritius. 
Brazil. 
India. 
Mauritius. 
Madagascar. 


! 


138 The Palma of Messrs. Loddiges. 


NATIVE COUNTRY. 


Geonoma schottiana - - Brazil. 
Gomutus saccharifer - - Bengali. 
Hyphene cuciphora - - Upper Egypt. 
Latania borbonica - - Bourbon. 
glaucophylla - - Madagascar. 
rubra - - Bourbon. 

Licuala peltata - - India. 
spinosa has - Ditto. 

Lontarus glaucus - - Madagascar. 

sylvestris - - India. 

Manicaria saccifer - - Trinidad and Brazil. 

Mauritia flexuosa - - Central America. 

Maximiliana regia - - Brazil. 

(Enocarpus Batana - Ditto. 

Pheenix acaulis - - Mauritius. 
dactylifera - - Egypt, Persia, Palestine, &c. 
farinifera , - - Mauritius. 
leonensis > : Sierra Leone. 
paludosa - - India. 
pygmea - - Mauritius. 
sylvestris - - India. 

Rhaphis flabelliformis —- - China. 

Sabal adansoni - - Tropics. 
blackburniana - - Ditto. 
graminifolia - - South America. 
palmetto - - Georgia. 
umbraculifera - - Jamaica. 
minor - - Florida. 

Sagus pedunculata - - Gambia. 
ruffil - - Mauritius. 
rumphii - - Arbayna. 
vinifera - - Africa. 

Syagrus cocoides - - Brazil. . 

Thrinax argentea - - Jamaica. 
barbadensis - - Barbadoes. 
elegans - - India. 
gracilis - - Cayenne. 
parviflora - - Jamaica. 
pumilio - - Ditto. 
radiata - - Trinidad. 

Wallichia caryotoides - - India. 

Zamia cycadifolia - - South Africa. 
debilis - - Florida. 
furfuracea - - Ditto. 
integrifolia foemina et mas. - Ditto. 
lanuginosa - - South Africa, 
latifolia - - Florida and Cuba. 
media - - Ditto 
prunifera - - Persia 
pumila foemina et mas, - Florida and Cuba. 
pungens - - South Africa. 
pygmaa - - Cuba. 
repanda - - South Africa. 
spinosa - - Ditto. 
spiralis - - New Holland. 


tridentats - - South Africa. 


A new Verge Cutter and Orange Tub. 189 


Arr. XII. On a new Verge Cutter, and Orange Tub, invented 
by Mr. Cuarxes Mac Intosu, Gardener to Sir Thomas 
Baring, Bart. M.P. and also on a new Mode of preserving 
Cauliflowers, by the same, in a Letter to Mr. Mackay, of the 
Belgrave and Clapton Nurseries. 


Dear Sir, 
According to promise, I nowsend you the edging iron ( fiz.28.) 
which I have described to you, and which I hope you will 


28 


find to answer to my description ; of course some allowance 
will be made for the first trial, as men are apt to be prejudiced 
against new tools; but I can pledge my word, that I will 
myself (notwithstanding my infirmities) cut as much im one 
day with this instrument as I could in four, or I may say in five 
days, with the instrument in general use; any of my men 
are most willing to do thesame. In all cases, excepting when 
there is a long straight line to be edged, a garden line is 
unnecesary: where a line must be used it will perhaps be best 
to place it so that it will run between the wheel and the coulter, 
or cutting part of the machine (a). A certain degree of pressure 
is necessary upon the handle where the ground is hard, and the 
kneed coulter (6) may be used where the edgings are not 
very regular, When in use I have them daily sharpened, 
and the operator takes them out in his pocket in the morning, 
and when one loses its. cutting edge, he takes it off and 
places on another, and so on. 

The model of the orange boxes ( #g. 29.) I have aiso sent. [ 
hope you will approve of them; you will observe that they are 
different from Sir A. Hume’s, or those used on the Continent; 
they are tapered a little, which gives them a lighter appearance 
than when made square. The advantage that this sort of box 
has over those in use is, that you can with so little trouble take 
them to pieces and examine the roots of the trees, remove old, 
and replace by fresh mould, prune the roots, see whether they 
are in a proper state, as regards moisture, &c. ‘The last 
particular I think very material to their health, the sides 

L 4 


140 How to preserve Cauliflowers. 


ae 
a 


a 


folding down: you can, as often as may be judged necessary, 
paint or pitch the inside of the boxes, which will, if properly 
attended to, make them last, if made of good wood, for twenty 
years. Another advantage they have over the boxes alluded 
to is, that you can take the trees out of one box and place them 
in others without taking them to pieces, which you cannot do 
with the others, as they are made of strong framed posts so 
joined together that it is impossible to take out your trees ; 
and besides, only two of their sides are moveable. In taking 
this box to pieces you have only to pull up the two iron bars, 
and gently pull out two of the sides (a); the remaining sides 
liftup. Igenerally fill up all the bottom of the tubs with 
broken brick, tiles, and turf for draining, so as to be level with 
the top of the bottom bars. 

If you think these two things worth Mr. Loudon’s notice, 
you will particularly oblige me by sending them to him. 

I have been able to keep cauliflower for a length of time 
by cutting them in a dry day, stripping off all the leaves, and 
then burying them among bog mould. ‘The idea first struck 
me in Scotland, from considering that bog mould was 
antiseptic, and capable of resisting putrefaction, particularly 
if excluded from atmospheric air. I covered some heads of 
cauliflower in July, under the rubbish taken from the bottom 
of an old peat stack, and in November following, found them 
still fit for use. I pointed out to your brother some this year 
at Stratton, that had been laid up six weeks,, and still good; 
this I was, in consequence of the long drought, obliged to do ; 
and for weeks it was sent to table, and found as good as if 
newly cut: it is necessary to wash them well, as they are 
very black when taken out. 

I am, dear Sir, &c. 
Cuartes Mac Inrosu. 

Stratton Park, 

November 29, 1825. 


On the Remuneration of Gardeners. 141 


Arv. XIII. On the Remuneration of Gardeners. By I. P. 
Burnarp, Esa. of Eden Grove, Holloway. 


Dear Sir, 

I Have taken your first number ct the Gardener's Magazine, 
with which, on the whole, I am tolerably pleased. I did in- 
tend to have sent you, as I promised long ago, a plan and 
specification of a master gardener’s house, seed-room, and 
office; such a one as appears to me suitable for gardeners, 
from 60 to 100/. per annum, exclusive of board wages, &c., and 
which might be varied for salaries above and below that sum: 
but yesterday I had occasion to dine with a brother architect, 
where one of the company related some things respecting 
the way in which gardeners are remunerated, that quite 
altered my determination; and I now think that to begin by 
giving a plan of a house, before first acertaining that the 
intended occupant is able to make use of it, would be little 
better than an insult tohis feelings. 

I respect all industrious men, and would have them all 
placed in comfortable circumstances; but I particularly re- 
spect gardeners, because, as far as my experience goes, there 
is no class of rural operatives, or masters, whose moral cha- 
racter stands so high, and whose remuneration is so low. If 
we take a carpenter, bricklayer, mason, or smith, and com- 
pare the wages usually paid them through their apprentice- 
ship, and while they are journeymen, with the wages of a 
gardener during these states of progression; and compare 
also their intellectual state, the difference between the two 
classes is almost incredible. A bricklayer who cannot write, 
and who has not the least knowledge of figures, or geometry, 
receives from five to seven shillings a-day, as the common 
price given by master builders. A journeyman gardener in 
one of the first nurseries, who has gone through a course 
of practical geometry and land surveying ; has a scientitic know- 
ledge of Botany, and has spent his days and his nights in 
reading books connected with his profession, gets no more 
than two shillings or two and sixpence a day. The Hor- 
ticultural Society, it is true, very humanely give 14s. to 18s. per 
week ; but you may recollect, in the spring of 1824, that an 
Irish lad working in Jenkins’s nursery, was summoned before 
the Mary-la-bonne police magistrates, to provide for an 
illegitimate child, and being required to allow the mother 
two or three shillings per week, assigned as a reason why he 
could not afford it, that his wages were only 10s. per week! 
The magistrate would not believe him; he had but a small 
plot of a garden, he said, but he paid the gardener who 
did it up 4s.a day: this unfortunate lad, therefore, had the 


142 On the Remuneration of Gardeners. 


alternative of paying the money, going to prison, or marrying 
the girl; in the’simplicity and goodness of his heart he chose 
the latter. A woe may be pronounced against the gardener 
who marries so prematurely; and it would be well, to have 
written upon the large gates of the Horticultural Society’s 
garden at Chiswick, something like what Dante inscribes on 
the portal of hell : 


« Lasciate ogni amor voi che entrate,” 


or otherwise establish within them one of those “ Botteghe 
che hanno per frontespizio’ — Qui si castrano i Ragazzi Gzar- 
diniere a buon mercato ! ” 

With respect to master gardeners, to what class of gentle- 
men’s servants, is there so much confided, and so little paid ? 
Not to mention the general care of the kitchen garden and 
pleasure ground, it often happens that a gardener has 
two or three hundred men under his direction for executing 
improvements. ‘The work of all these men, or their time, he 
has to measure, or to calculate; and perhaps 60/. or 80/. a week 
passes through his hands for their payment; while he has not 
more than as many pounds a year for himself. Is there not 
something very extraordinary in this? Would any mercantile 
man or manufacturer consider it safe to entrust so much 
power in the hands of a man so ill paid, and consequently 
so exposed to the temptation of dishonesty? Yet how seldom 
do we hear of gardeners falling short in their accounts. So 
rarely does that happen, that I do not recollect of a single 
instance ; this must be attributed to the high moral character 
of gardeners, which may be traced in part to the recluse way 
in which they are brought up, and in part to the nature of their 
profession; even Bailiffs, or as you call them, Agronomes, are 
more apt to deviate from the moral principle than gardeners ; 
probably from the influence of attending markets, to which, it 
may be said, every person going as a buyer or seller, goes 
with an intention to deceive, more or less, the person he may 
have to deal with. 

However, I am deviating from my purpose, and, I fear, 
weakening the force of what I have to say. « It is briefly this ; 
one of the richest if not the very richest nobleman in England, 
has just parted with his gardener upon the subject of wages. 
This gardener, it was stated where I dined, is among the most 
intelligent of those of your country ; he went to the situation 
about seven years ago; and besides doing the common 
routine of a nobleman’s gardens, he -laid out an immense 
park and pleasure ground, from his own designs; and that in 
such a way as to give universal satisfaction. ‘The place, in 


On the Remuneration of Gardeners. 143 


short, is talked of, and we all know how proud Mr. P. is of 
the share he had in the architecture of the house. The 
gardener went there on wages which he felt to be low; but 
which he trusted would be raised as he displayed his talents. 
With the most honourable feelings he declined asking for an 
advance while the great works he had in hand were going on, 
least it might be considered as a sort of threat to leave in the 
midst of them; but when the whole was completed, he then 
respectfully represented to his employer that he found great 
difficulty in supporting himself, his wife, and three children on 
forty pounds a year, and eleven shillings a week board wages, 
for he had no perquisites, not even milk or a pig. ‘The 
magnificent and generous nobleman, not more rich than 
pious, after several weeks’ consideration offered an addition of 
127. a year. Such is the liberality of a man who is said to 
have upwards of 100,000/. a-year. I make no reflections on 
the subject, but I think it is a fit case to be recorded in the 
Gardener’s Magazine for the benefit of its practical readers. 
Had this gardener not been an honourable minded man, and 
enthusiastic in his profession, he never would have gone on 
for so many years with such extensive works, and with so 
paltry a remuneration. But he was wrapped up in the plans 
he was executing, and fancied that while erecting a column 
to his own fame as a gardener, he was also laying the surest 
foundation for an increase of salary, and, in short, for rendering 
his situation comfortable and permanent. At the moment, 
however, when he thought of beginning to reap the fruits of 
his labours, he was politely swept away from the place where 
he had spent his best years, and made his greatest exertions ; 
and the small increase of salary that was denied him was 
more than included in the wages of his successor. Had this 
gardener not been an honest man, he might, out of the 
thousands a year that passed through his hands, in the mul- 
tifarious payments of from 250 to 300 men weekly, easily have 
helped himself. Is not such treatment enough to tempt men 
to dishonesty ? and is it not astonishing that gentlemen, when 
they hire servants, do not take these things into account in 
adjusting their remuneration? In a word, there is no class 
of servants so ill paid as gardeners, and none, who from their 
general good conduct, and the long study and attention 
required to excel in their profession, deserve to be so well paid. 
But I am confounding general views with the relation of a 
particular case, and shall, therefore, conclude for the present, by 
expressing a hope, that this case will teach them — never to 
trust to the gratitude or generosity of their employers for that 
which they are entitled to receive from them as matter of 


144 On the Beurré Spence and other Pears. 


right. But you shall hear from me again on this subject 
before I send you any plans of gardener’s houses. 

Yours, very truly, 
I. P. Burnarp. 
Formosa Cottage, Holloway, 
10th February, 1826. 


Art. X1V. On the Beurré Spence and other new Pears, and 
on the art of keeping Fruit. By W. Brappick, Esq. F.H.S. 
of Boughton Mount, Kent. 


Dear Sir, 

In the account of new pears planted by me on Coxheath, 
as published by you in the first number of the Gardener’s 
Magazine, there is an omission of the word Spence, after 
the word Beurré. As it cost me much trouble to obtain 
possession of a bud of this fine pear, I feel desirous that this 
omission should not go uncorrected, in order that the pear 
may be more generally known: the more especially as it has 
ripened well on espalier and standard trees, both im Surrey 
and Kent, which inclines me to think that it will prove a 
valuable acquisition to our fruit growers. Its history is as 
follows : -- About seven or eight years ago, when I was just 
going to undertake my annual journey to the Continent, for 
the purpose of collecting buds of new fruits, my much 
esteemed and valued friend, Roger Wilbraham, Esq., hap- 
pened to call on me; in the course of conversation we spoke 
of the advantages which posterity would derive from the 
labours of those horticulturists of the present day, who are 
now employed in raising new fruits, through the know- 
ledge which is pretty generally disseminated of the sexual 
intercourse of plants. Mr. Wilbraham said, that it would 
be advantageous to discard all the bad, and to make a 
judicious selection of a moderate number of good table 
fruits ; the time, labour, trouble, difficulty, and expence which 
would attend the bringing this matter about, owing to the 
many thousands of new fruits yearly coming forward, was 
then spoken of, as it is supposed that not more than two or 
three per cent. of any number of new fruits raised from seed, 
turn out to be superior in goodness to the parents from 
whence the seed is derived. Mr. Wilbraham then suggested 
to me that I should ask such amateurs of new fruits as I 
might visit during my intended journey, which of all the 
fruits raised by each individual were esteemed the best, and 


On the Beurré Spence and other Pears. 145 


confine my collection to sorts preferred. Upon my. after- 
wards putting this question to M.Von Mans, professor of 
chemistry, agriculture, and rural ceconomy, at the Univer- 
sity of Louvain, who had raised 80,000 new pears, he very 
laconically replied, ‘‘ Monsieur Braddick, that depends on 
taste ;” offering me at the same time, with a grace peculiar 
to our continental neighbours, a pinch of snuff out of an 
elegant box, which he said was presented to him by the king 
of Wiirtemberg, for a new pear which he had raised, and 
named la Roi de Wiirtemberg, on account of that king’s 
liking it. I then asked him, if his own taste was called upon 
to decide the question, to which of all his new pears he 
would give the preference; he immediately replied, with much 
vivacity, “‘ The Beurré Spence,” and added, “ this fruit, to 
my taste, is inestimable, and has no competitor.” 

I obtained from the learned professor a letter addressed to 
his gardener; he at the same time gave me leave to take 
buds out of his garden, which was fourteen miles from 
Louvain; upon my presenting M. V. M.’s letter to his gar- 
dener, a Walloon, I found great difficulty in making him un- 
derstand me; he, however, readily gave me buds; but, as it 
appeared two years after, upon my fruiting those buds in 
England, the pear which he named Beurré Spence turned 
out to be the Gros Dillan, another new pear, very fine, and 
very large, fit for an espalier. Upon discovering that I had 
not yet got possession of the Beurré Spence, I went to 
Louvain again, and at length succeeded in establishing that 
pear in England. As soon as I fruited it, I sent specimens of 
the fruit, with a great many other new pears, to the Horti- 
cultural Society. Mr. Turner, the under secretary, pro- 
nounced it to be the very best of all the new Flemish pears 
yet raised ; to which I have to add, that I accord with professor 
Van Mons and Mr. Turner, in my opinion of its merits, it 
being in my estimation the very best table fruit that we at 
present possess, for its season, which is from the middle of 
October to the middle of November. - I gave buds or grafts 
of this pear to Mr. Young, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Kirk, Mr. 
Ronalds, Mr. Curtis, Mr. Masters, Mr. Knevett, and many 
other nurserymen and gardeners, of whom I presume plants 
by this time may be had. 

As I de not like to send you a barren letter, I herewith 
forward you specimens of two other new pears, which have 
heretofore been exhibited by me at a meeting of the Horti- 
culture Society. 

Beurré Pentacost. (Good. Cond.) 

Poire d’Ananas. This pear is nearly allied in appearance 


146 On the Constitution and Administration 


and flavour to the Present de Malines, and Passe Colmar. The 
two pears now sent grew against a west wall, in my garden 
at Thames Ditton, in Surrey. (Excellent. Cond.) 

Ihave kept back those pears as long as I conveniently 
could, in order to try the keeping quality of the fruit against 
the Poire d’Auch, heretofore our best keeping pear. A 
specimen of this last I send, that you may compare them 
together. It is scarcely treating these pears with fair play, 
to tumble them about before tasting, at this season of the 
year, as such usage is almost certain of deteriorating their 
flavour, by bringing on fermentation into their juice, which 
will render them mealy. To keep fruits well, they should 
be preserved in an equal dry temperature, under the fer- 
menting point, from whence they should only be brought 
just at the time of using. This my experience teaches, and 
acting upon this principle, I have prepared the fruit room in 
my new habitation, for my choice keeping fruit, thirty-two 
feet under the surface of the earth, in the solid dry rock ; 
the foundation being laid thirty-three feet and a half above 
the level of the spring in the well, a few yards off. ‘The 
stone which was quarried out of these three stories of cellars, 
was all used in the building, and cost less than an equivalent 
of bricks at fifteen shillings per thousand. 

Respectfully, I am, 
Dear Sir, &c. 
Boughton Mount, — Joun BrapDIick. 
March 1. 1826. 


Art. XV. Remarks on the Constitution and Administration of 
the London Horticultural Society. By a Fellow of the 
Society. 

Sir, 

I CONGRATULATE you very sincerely on the undertaking a 
Gardener’s Magazine, -which, if conducted with common 
care, and some spice of impartiality, will be as amusing as 
instructing to amateur gardeners like myself. I am not given 
to authorship, and have some hesitation in putting pen to 
paper, when I consider that it is to be printed; but the fact 
is, you have won my heart by the remark in your first num- 
ber, on the laying out of the garden of the Horticultural 
Society of Chiswick; if the term “ laying out” may, with any 
thing like decent propriety, be applied to such an arrangement 
of straight walks and kidney-shaped clumps, as are displayed 
in this garden of the richest and most ,highly patronized 


of the London Horticultural Society. 147 


society in England. I have a deal to say on the subject of 
the society, and I hope that I shall have the good fortune 
from time to time to be permitted to occupy a spare page or 
two in your Magazine. ‘The society has done and will do 
much good ; but, like most of these companies and societies 
it has the seeds of its own corruption within it — “ there is 
something rotten in the state of Denmark.” I trust that 
notwithstanding you are a member, you will hear both sides, 
and freely admit the remarks of each. 

The greatest benefit and the greatest evil to the concern is 
the secretary ; benefit, because he 1s indefatigablein the establish- 
ment and management; his whole time, care, and attention is 
devoted to the furtherance of it ; but then comes the evil—- the 
society receives the benefit of his care, time, and attention for 
nothing— and this to me is a great evil. Shall we not fall into 
the same error as other societies who have been patronized 
by honorary secretaries? Is not the society accepting too 
much? Seeing how rich it is, would it not be much wiser if 
all its officers, except those whose services are professedly of 
an honorary nature, were paid? ‘The objection to the con- 
trary is, that when this is not done, the individual has claims 
on it, which, from being undefined, are always dangerous. 
How can the different members with any grace gainsay the 
wishes of one who has done so much for them? How can 
the distribution of this patronage, or the donation of that 
packet of seeds, or that plant, be denied to him who has been 
such a benefactor? As far asI am convinced, and as my 
knowledge goes, I should say, that though Mr. Knight was the 
king, the secretary must, to all who dabble in the arrangement 
of the interior, be considered as the “ viceroy over him.” Is he 
not omnipotent in the council — in the committee of drawings 
—in the garden committee — and in short, in every thing? 
Suppose him to give offence to any member, to whom is that 
member to complain? Will the council venture to decide 
against the secretary ? 

Now you must not fancy for a moment that I am disin- 
clined towards our secretary, or the society, — far from it. I 
only mention these things for the benefit of the former, and 
the well being of the latter. At present it is going on swim- 
mingly. Government, it is said, has, or is about to bestow, a 
large sum of money for the furtherance of its objects; and, as 
this is the case, the concern belongs to the public in some 
measure; and as such, all difficulty or delicacy as to observ- 
ation is removed. It has been a matter of as much surprise 
as regret to find, that with such a vast annual subscription — 
and a subscription of some thousands of pounds for the 


148 On the Constitution and Administration 


garden, it has been thought necessary to go a begging to the 
government: let that, however, pass; but if the money is 
got, at all events let us see how it is spent. 

I shall not overwhelm you with too much at once; but 
think you will agree with me that a great deal has been spent 
in objects which are not quite within the spirit of the 
meaning of the charter; or, what is of more consequence, 
the meaning or wishes of thesubscribers. I think it certainly 
never was intended to form in the garden a botanical col- 
lection. And is there any occasion for it when we have Kew 
and the Linnzean Society? As for the introduction of new 
and beautiful flowers, that is quite consistent with the original 
foundation; but that a large part of the funds should be ap- 
plied in sending collectors to all parts of the globe, to 
Canton, Columbia, the Cape, &c. I think it quite beside what 
the original founders meant. 

There is another very questionable point. I am an ori- 
ginal subscriber. Well, it has been determined to establish a 
garden on a larger scale than the first, and a particular sub- 
scription for it was set on foot. This was not done at a 
General Meeting, I believe; at least I, as a subscriber, was no 
party to this, as far as Iknow. ‘To those who subscribe to the 
gardens there are particular privileges attached; they may have 
plants on application. ‘They give tickets to view the garden 
to their friends; in fact, they area “ privileged class,” and I, an 
old subscriber, am turned into the lower orders, and am no 
longer a member of the society; and I must either do what 
my circumstances do not conveniently admit of, or I must 
remain in my degraded state. It is true, I continue to have 
the right of going to the garden myself; but when a friend 
asks me for a ticket, I am obliged to confess I cannot give 
one. Why not? is the answer; Mr. So and So has as 
many as he likes. ‘There I am driven up into a corner, and 
obliged to confess that I am only one of the poor members, 
and cannot assist him. The same as to the distributions. 

In short, the London Horticultural Society has ceased to 
be conductéd on liberal principles for the benefit of horticul- 
ture; and its main efforts are directed to its own agrandize- 
ment; in some respects to the positive injury of horticulturists, 
by paralysing the efforts of individuals. Whether this will go 
on, or whether the energies of some individuals will lead to a 
general reformation of the system of management, it is im: 
possible to foresee. But this much I think, you and most of 
the practical gardeners in the neighbourhood of London, who 
are fellows, will agree in, that a reformation is highly necessary. 

5; I am, Sir, &c. 
A Fr.iow of the Society. 


Of the London Horticultural Society. 145 


Note by the Conductor. —'The author of the foregoing paper 
will excuse us for having omitted so much of what he had 
written. We should not have inserted his letter at all, had it 
been the only one received on the subject; but as there seems 
among many practical gardeners in the neighbourhood of 
London a spirit of dissatisfaction with the society, whether 
well or ill grounded we do not pretend to say, we consider it 
our duty to attend to it; more particularly as it is practical 
gardeners who are the chief readers of this Magazine. Dis- 
cussion on the subject can never do harm, and may do good. 
We perfectly agree with the writer on the subject of an unpaid 
secretary; but we question much, if any secretary, however 
well paid, would have raised the society to the same degree 
of eminence that has been done by the present one. It is 
only just, therefore, that he ought to be gratified, in return, 
with as great a share of power as is consistent with the 
dienity and safety of the society. To the friends of hor- 
ticulture, the most interesting point is, the question whether, 
according to their present plan and proceedings, this so- 
ciety will be able to get income sufficient to go on with for 
many years. A plan, we think, should have been adopted, 
which would not have involved so great an annual expence. 
No society, in our opinion, should interfere with any thing 
that can be very well or better done by individuals; and on 
this principle, if that in question were to limit itself to absolute 
utility, its business would be very simple, and not very ex- 
pensive. In the first place, there would be no occasion for 
an extensive garden; for we feel well assured that the only 
real good to be done by this part of the establishment, is to 
bring together all the varieties of fruits and culinary vege- 
tables now scattered over the country, and form complete 
descriptive catalogues of them. A few acres enclosed by a 
good wall, and a vinery of 150 feet in length, would have 
been more than sufficient for this purpose. ‘There is not 
another point in the whole circle of gardening that would 
not have been much better done by individuals than by this 
or any society whatever. For example, to procure plants 
and fruits from abroad — offer handsome premiums for them. 
To propagate and disseminate them when received —- give 
them to the nurserymen. ‘To ascertain any point by ex- 
periment — state the desideratum, and the reward you will 
give for the best account of the result — trials will be made 
by several, and instead of one result you will have a dozen. 
No experimental discovery of much importance was ever 
made by any society. The great strength of a country, whe- 
ther politically or scientifically, is founded on the energies 

Vou. I. No. 2. M 


150 Abridgments of Communications. 


of the individuals who compose it, and, therefore, any 
measure which has a tendency to repress individual energy, 
and induce a reliance on others, is injurious. Of this nature 
is all monopoly, and we think the horticultural society attempt 
tco much in this way; from the one extreme of sending out 
botanical collectors to every part of the world, to the other 
of supplying gentlemen with practical gardeners. We con- 
sider the latter point, indeed, as so utterly at variance with 
the dignity of the society, that we are astonished it should be 
persisted in. An institution with “ His sacred Majesty” as a 
patron, and emperors and kings as members, to keep an 
office for servants! And while all this is being attended to, 
the gardening comforts of the laboring classes is totally ne- 
glected. (See Art. I. p. 101.) 

But we would not confine a grand, central, horticultural 
society, like that of London, to bare utility; we would wish 
it to have a splendid garden as an additional ornament to the 
metropolis, and a first-rate specimen of the art of garden- 
ing. This, once done, could be kept up at such an annual 
expence as it might reasonably be expected would be raised 
by the ordinary income of the society; but independently 
altogether of utility or splendour we think it very questionable 
if the present system of embracing so many objects both at 
home and abroad, can be continued for many years longer. 


Art. XVI. <Abridgments of Communications which want of 
room precludes our inserting at length. 


Tue authors of the following papers are requested to ex- 
cuse the Conductor for the liberty he has taken in presenting 
their communications in an abridged state. ‘There is not one 
of them that would not have done credit to its writer and to 
the magazine if printed at length; and some of them were 
actually put in type for that. purpose; but want of room and 
the disadvantages of delay have compelled us to follow this 
course. 


1. On the Cultivation of Gourds and Pompions. By Mr. 
Henry Gray, Gardener, Camberwell. Dated December 
12th, 1825. 


Mr. Gray’s employer had lived a good deal in the West 
Indies, and there acquired a taste for using the different va- 
rieties of edible gourds, as a substitute for our common 
culinary vegetables. Mr. Gray plants in the paths between 
asparagus beds, and lets the vines run over them; and he 


Gourds, Cranberries, and Water Cresses. 151 


considers that their large leaves do good to the asparagus 
roots by protecting them from the sun, while the tall 
stems of the asparagus afford a shelter to the leaves of 
the gourds. Last summer’s extraordinary drought, had 
burned up, on his gravelly soil, the cabbages, peas, tur- 
nips, &c. by the beginning of August, and had he not been 
provided with gourds as a substitute, the family must have 
had recourse to market. The servants disliked them at first, 
but soon came to like them better than summer cabbage. 
He therefore recommends, especially where the soil is liable 
to be burnt up in summer, planting the vegetable marrow 
and other Cucurbitacege as a reserve crop. 


Note. —To the above we may add, that the tender tops of all 
the edible species of cucurbitaceze, boiled as greens or spinage, 
are a fully more delicate vegetable than the fruit. It must be 
worth something to gardeners and cooks to know that either, 
or both, may be used for this purpose, when scarcely any 
thing else can be got. 


2. On the Cultivation of the English and Amerscan Cranberry 
and the Water-cress, at Bretton Hall. By Mr. Curistie 
Durr, late Gardener there. Dated December 20th, 
1825. 


Tue beds are made across a bank which slopes to the 
south, and the plants, instead. of being shaded, as is gener- 
ally recommended for those planted in gardens, are fully ex- 
posed to the summer’s sun. ‘The advantages to the fruit 
are obvious. The beds are six feet wide with two-feet trenches 
between them, through which passes a stream of running 
water. ‘The sloping situation renders it necessary to run a 
small line of puddle along the lower edges of each bed, as 
high as the surface of the peat, to prevent the escape of the 
water. By this, and other obvious arrangements, the water 
circulates from trench to trench, entering at the top and passing 
off at the bottom of the declivity. Very sandy peat is used. 
In winter the water is kept low, but in summer it is raised as 
high as the surface of the beds, and so as occasionally to 
flood them. Abundance of water Mr. Duff considers as 
essentially necessary to the success of this plan. 

The cresses, it will be easily conceived, are grown in the 
trenches among the running water; a little sand being laid 
along them to promote their rooting. ‘The sub-soil of the 
whole bank devoted to. this mode of culture is a retentive 
clay. 

M2 


152 Orange and Lemon Trees, and Hot-house Flues. 


3. On the Management of newly-imported Orange and Lemon 
trees. By Mr. Witi1am Moore, Gardener at Kast Ham, 
Surrey. Dated Jan. 25th. 


THE trees, as soon as received, were immersed half way 
up their stems in water about 64° for twelve hours. They 
were then potted, their stems wrapped round with soft hay- 
bands, from the root to the bud; the shoots from these buds 
cut down to three eyes; and finally the pots plunged into a 
bed of nearly spent dung, made up inthe vinery. They were 
regularly watered morning and evening, and the hay-bands well 
moistened every time ; the water used was of 65°, the tempe- 
rature of the house. In ten days they all began to push 
vigorously ; excepting one plant, which was neither steeped 
in water, nor wrapped round with hay-bands, and which re- 
mained a month quite inactive, while the others had produced 
shoots from four to eight inches long. Heat and proportionate 
moisture, Mr. Moore concludes, are the grand agents of 
vegetation. 


4. An Account of an Experiment, which serves to show that 
Hot-house Flues may draw very well without terminating in 
an upright Shaftor Chimney. By Mr. Marrutas Sau1, of 
Lancaster, Inventor of Saul’s Fruit-gatherer (Encyc. of Gard. 
§ 1347.) and other Machines. Dated Feb. 7th. 


Mr. Saut’s green-house flue always had the worst draught 
in frosty weather, apparently from some defect in the upright 
chimney. As an experiment, he made an opening into the 
flue, and made a wood flue sixteen inches long (fg 30. d). 
“IT found,” he says, ‘‘the smoke came out with great force and 
ran along the ground (e), and none came out at the chim- 

ney (/). I then supposed my chimney (f ) must be too small. 


On Bees, and Two Varieties of the Garden Pea. 153 


I therefore made a wooden flue, to fix on the sixteen-inch 
piece, when it completely stopped the smoke. . I then fixed 
it in a sloping direction (g), when a little smoke came out; 
I then took it completely away, as I was convinced the six- 
teen-inch flue answered the best. I have made a stop to put 
on the sixteen-inch flue, as the chimney draws well when it is 
not frosty weather, and no smoke in the least comes out at the 
tube (5) when it is not frost.” 


5 On the Winter Management of Bees, by a Clergyman, in 
Morayshire. Communicated by Miss Ann Dinewa tt. 
Dated Feb. 9th. 


In a severe winter, bees are for the most part asleep, 
and do not eat much of their honey; in a mild winter they 
are in motion, and eating, and have not an opportunity of 
renovating their stores from flowers. Keeping these facts 
in view, and the winters in Morayshire being remarkable 
for mildness, Miss Dingwall’s friend put his bees te rest in the 
month of October, by burying them ina peat-stack; and did 
not restore them to motion till the willows were in blossom, 
in the following April. The success was most complete, and 
the practice worthy of imitation in other districts, by placing 
the hives in cold dark cellars, or ice-houses. 


6. Historical Notice of two Varieties of the Garden Pea. By 
Mr. T. H. Masters, Eden Nursery, Stoke Newington. 
Dated Feb. 25. 


Master’s Imperial Marrow Pea was raised a few years since 
by Mr. W. Masters, seedsman, Canterbury. Among some 
green marrow-fat peas which he was saving for seed, he 
observed one or two very different from the rest, which were 
carefully preserved, and they have proved a valuable addition 
to our list of peas; they are hardy, and grow about five feet 
high ; their size, dark green colour, and richness of flavour, 
will always recommend them at table. 

The Dwarf Knight's Marrow Pea was raised bya gentleman’s 
gardener, in the vicinity of Sittingbourne, Kent, and is a 
newer variety than the preceding one. ‘This pea attains 
nearly the same height as the Blue Prussian Pea, but never 
higher ; —in all other respects, even to the shrivelly appear- 
ance of the: seed, it resembles the very excellent pea raised 
by the indefatigable President of the Horticultural Society. 


7. On the Cultivation of Pear Trees for Perry. By Rus- 
tTicus, of Kent. Dated Feb. 25th. 


Rusticus observes, that in many orchards, containing apple 
and pear trees, the apples will be found cankered and un- 
M 3 


154 On Pear Trees, and certain Exotics at Wormleybury. 


healthy, while the pears are sound and vigorous. The pear, 
he says, is naturally less capricious than the apple, both in 
regard to soil and situation. For this reason, he suggests, 
that pear trees, especially those kinds whose fruit is adapted 
for perry, should be more frequently planted than at present. 
In every orchard he would have both apples and pears, in 
such quantities as to admit of making the fruit into cider or 
perry ; and as the pear crop often succeeds when the apple 
crop fails, when cider could not be made, perry might be had. 


8. Remarkable Specimens of Pceonia Papaveracea, Madras 
Citron, and Magnolia Conspicua, in the Gardens of Worm- 
leybury, in Hertfordshire. Communicated by Sir ABRAHAM 
Hume, Bart. F.R.S. H.S. &c. the Proprietor. Dated 
March 18. 


Peonia Papaveracea is ina house 16 feet long, 10 feet 
wide, and 8 feet high, and is entzre/y filled with the plant, so 
that its circumference may be estimated at 39 feet; and it would 
be still larger if the tree had sufficient space. ‘There are on 
it at this time 630 buds. 

The Madras Citron is 21 feet in height, and 15 feet in width, 
trained on the wall and partly on the glass roof of the con- 
servatory. It bore last year between three and four dozen of 
fruit, some of which weighed above five pounds. . 


31 


—— 


SSO 
—Z oS 


Magnolia Conspicua ( fig. 31.) is 20 feet in height, and spreads 
20 feet on the wall, and 5 feet above it. It requires no protec- 
tion, and produced a year or two ago above 900 flowers; this 
year 730 are coming out. 


156 


PAR Till 


REVIEWS. 


Art. 1. Systematic Botany. 


Caroli Linnei Systema Vegetabilium, editio decima-sexta curante 
CurTIo SpRENGEL. Vols.1.&2. Gotiinge, 1825, 8vo. 


Tae physical sciences are generally supposed to depend 
almost entirely upon the powers of human observation for 
their perfection and final developement, and it was formerly 
admitted as an incontrovertible axiom, ‘that philosophical 
induction or metaphysical classification had little or no effect 
upon the actual amount of ascertained facts, or, which is the 
same thing, upon the elements of science. It has been a 
common belief that the classification of natural objects had no 
other end than that of forming a sort of index to the science 
of natural history, and that systems bore the same relation to 
sciences as alphabets to languages. With regard to botany, 
the description of a plant, with a detail of its qualities in 
medicine or art, actual or supposed, was the utmost which 
was attempted by the most celebrated writers, and it certainly 
was never by such persons for a moment supposed that an 
acquaintance with the mutual relations and affinities of the 
vegetable kingdom, would: in any degree influence the dis- 
covery of new objects. But the experience of modern times 
has shown that directly the reverse of this opinion is con- 
sonant with facts, and that so long as the mind remained 
occupied in no other manner than ‘in the acquisition of new 
plants, without knowing in what way to appreciate their re- 
spective peculiarities, discoveries continued to be made slowly, 
and to be of little value when made. As soon, however, as 
botanists arrived at the art of arranging, upon philosophical 
principles, the materials which they possessed, their attention 

was strongly directed towards supporting their respective 
systems by the addition of new objects and of new facts. 

M 4 


156 Systematic Botany. 


Their minds were excited by the hope of undiscovered forms, 
enabling them to fill up chasms which, they could not fail to 
perceive, existed in the most perfect methods known to them; 
and the strenuous investigations instituted on this account, 
naturally brought them acquainted with an abundance of 
subjects, the existence of which the imperfection of their 
previous knowledge could not have led them to suspect. 
Thus we perceive, that during the space of more than 5,500 
years, from the creation of the world, to the time of Czesal- 
pinus, a period during the greater part of which botany was 
an humble art, necessarily, from its intimate connection with 
the wants of mankind, the study of physicians, the whole 
number of recorded plants of all descriptions scarcely 
equalled the quantity now produced, under the auspices of 
science, by the investigations of a twelvemonth. This will 
be placed in a stronger point of view, by a glance at the 
history of botany up to the. appearance of the werk which 
stands at the head of this article. 

In the early ages of the world, the science which is now called 
botany, consisted of a collection of names, and exceedingly im- 
perfect descriptions of plants, either entirely unarranged, or 
combined according to their supposed qualities in medicine, 
or inhuman economy. The first race of botanists were, there- 
fore, physicians, or mere simplers, who cared for no classification 
beyond that which enabled them to arrive at a knowledge of 
the powers and effects of the few herbs which were imported 
for pharmacy, or which grew in their vicinity. Even after 
the revival of learning in Europe, the same ideas were enter- 
tained, and a proportionate progress was made in the acqui- 
sition of knowledge. ‘The second race of botanists, or those 
who existed after the dark ages of Europe had passed away, 
were the commentators upon the writings of the first race; 
men of some learning, indeed, but in the deepest ignorance of 
the subject they undertook to illustrate;—monks, whose prac- 
tical knowledge extended not beyond the walls of their mo- 
nastery, and who depended for all the information they found 
necessary to their purposes upon the assistance they could 
derive from the few copies of the Arabian physicians which 
their own or their monastic libraries might chance to possess. 
Science, in the hands of such men, would, it may be easily 
believed, retrograde rather than make advances towards im- 
provement. So that up to the time of Vincentius Bel- 
lovacensis, who has been called the Pliny of the middle ages, 
and whose Speculum Quadripartitum was published in 1494, 
the second volume of which is devoted to the subject of Natural 
History, it may be safely affirmed that no progress whatever in 


Systematic Botany. 157 


modern times had been made in botany; the whole of this 
author’s materials having been borrowed from Aristotle, Dios- 
corides, Isidorus Macer, Pliny, Avicenna, Platearius Actor, 
and Cassius Felix, an obscure writer, whose works are lost. 
But the practical ignorance of the monks was not the only evil 
which impeded the advance of physical knowledge. ‘They 
were in many instances deplorably unlearned in the languages 
from which they borrowed their opinions. With Arabic, the 
only source to them of new ideas, they were in most instances 
imperfectly acquainted; and the degree of knowledge which 
they possessed, even in the Greek language, was so low, that 
they were led into the commission of continual errors, even in 
translating the fables of classical writers into the dreams of 
themselves. Another, and a more serious consequence than 
the decline of science, was the result of this deplorable state of 
botanical learning, which, as a modern writer has justly 
observed, was so desperate, that it is not more surprising 
that it should ever have arrived at such a condition than that 
it should ever have been extricated from it. By a frequent 
misinterpretation of the Arabic writers it not unfrequently 
came to pass that properties were ascribed to plants which 
were directly the reverse of those which the original authors 
attributed to them; a curious instance of which occurred 
with respect to the cinnamon. This was for a long time con- 
sidered a deadly poison, in consequence of Nicolaus My- 
repsicus, a Greek physician who flourished in the thirteenth 
century, having translated Dar-senz, the name given to the 
cinnamon by the Arabians, by the word dgoéuxoy. 

The time, however, arrived, when some truly learned men 
undertook the exposition, not only of the blunders of their 
contemporaries, but of the ignorance of those original authors 
in whom a blind confidence had for so many ages been re- 
posed. The bold attack of Hermolaus Barbarus upon Pliny, 
and of Nicolaus Leonicenus upon Serapio, and the Arabian 
writers, the one published at the end of the fifteenth century, 
the latter at the commencement of the sixteenth, put an end to 
the delusion under which the world had laboured for so long a 
time. These men fearlessly tore the mask from before the 
face of the impostors of their day, and boldly succeeded in 
convincing the world that the ignorance of antiquity had been 
mistaken for the experience of ages; and a new impulse 
was given to the pursuits of naturalists, not only by these 
writers, but also by the declaration of Collenuti, an earnest 
defender, indeed, of the originality of Pliny, that ‘“ mon 
satis esse ad herbariam perdiscendam tradendamque, herbarios 
scriptores legere, plantarum videre picturas, ‘Greeca vocabula 


158 Systematic Botany. 


znspicere, magisirt unius verbis addictum esse, sed rusticos mon- 
tanosque homines interrogare oportere.” 

At this period. 2 new era in botany may be said to have 
commenced. The trammels of the schocls were shaken off, 
and men began to consult their own understandings, .and to 
trust to their own experience, and to the previously unopened 
volume of nature for the materials of science. Accordingly 
we find, from Otho Brunfels, who died in 1534, down to 
Ceesalpinus, the earliest botanist who introduced a system- 
atic arrangement into his writings, and who died in 1602, a 
long succession of authors who may be generally called 
original, and whose labours had been gradually adding to the 
number of known plants, in such a degree that the summary 
oi their discoveries, as we find them recorded in the History 
of Plants compiled by the Bauhins, and published in 1623, 
cannot be estimated at a lower number than 5000; of which 
more than 600 were then for the first time described; a very 
considerable number if compared with the slow progress which 
botany had made up to that time. 

At even this date, however, it is scarcely possible to consider 
botany to have attained the rank of a science ; and it was not 
till after the splendid labours of Morison and Ray that it 
finally assumed, in the elegant Institutes of the indefatigable 
Tournefort, published at Paris, in three volumes quarto, in 
1770, that rank which it now holds among the sciences. ‘This 
work, compiled with great care, and adapted to the system 
peculiar to its author, must be considered the first Speczes 
Plantarum ; and from the perfect manner in which it was exe- 
cuted, affords distinct evidence of the number of plants known 
to botanists at the end of the seventeeth century. The plants no- 
ticed in this work amount, the corallines being excluded, upon 
a careful calculation, to about 8800. But Tournefort, who 
was little solicitous for the distinctions of species, having ad- 
mitted a vast number of double flowers and slight varieties 
into his list, it is necessary to make a considerable deduction 
from the whole amount of his names on that account, in 
order to obtain a just view of the number of species known in 
his day, as compared with what are esteemed species by 
modern botanists. ‘The number thus to be deducted may be 
estimated at one-third; so that the species really known to 
Tournefort appear to have been some where about 6000, 
including both phzenogamous and cryptogamous vegetation. 

Now let us trace the progress by which this stock of know- 
ledge was acquired, and see how far our position is supported 
up to the end of the seventeenth century. Inthe Holy Bible 
it has been ascertained, from the investigations of Sprengel, 


Systematic Botany. 159 


that there are 71 plants noticed by name, which generally 
are such only as were applicable to the purposes of man; 
and viewed in this light, the number, as compared with those 
known to the early heathen writers, is far from inconsiderable. 
The Homeric Flora amounts to less than 30 species; that of 
Hippocrates, in the year of the world 3630, to 274 species ; 
and of Theophrastus, who is supposed to have flourished 
about the same time, to something less than 560 species. 
Dioscorides, who, it is most probable, lived in the time of 
Cleopatra, more than 300 years later than Theophrastus, 
notices 600 plants; and finally, Pliny, in the seventy-fourth 
year of the Christian era, compiled, from an examination of 
more than two thousand volumes of Greek and Roman writers, 
an account of nearly 1000 species, the result of the investi- 
gations of more than forty centuries. In the succeeding 
ourteen hundred years, we have already seen that the pro- 
gress of botany was so slow, that if an increase of 500 
species is allowed to have taken place during that long 
period, it is as many as can be possibly made out to have 
been discovered. But the two next centuries, when the 
knowledge of plants was assuming a scientific form, produced, 
after making every allowance for repetitions and spurious 
species, upwards of 4500 new plants, a number more than 
three times greater than had been ascertained in all the ages 
of the world before. 

But if we find this opinion confirmed by the experience of 
the ages anterior to Tournefort, how much more strongly is 
it supported by the evidence of modern times. In the first 
edition of the Species Plantarum, published fifty-three years 
later than the first edition of Tournefort’s Institutes, the 
number of species amounts to._7300, and so extraordinary 
was the advance of botany under the auspices of Linneus, 
that in a few years more it was found that 1500 plants could 
be added to the list. Pulteney, indeed, makes only 7800 in 
all; but in this he must be mistaken. 

The number, however, of species described by Linneus, 
even in his latest work, is by no means to be taken as the 
standard by which the actual state of knowledge at his time 
is to be measured. It is well known that his notions respect- 
ing species were peculiar to himself, and it must also be 
supposed that the difficulty of adapting the half-described 
species of his predecessors to his system, operated with him 
in some degree in inducing him to neglect their labours, 
in cases in which his own knowledge did not chance to be 
such as confirmed their opinions and descriptions. For this 


160 Systematic Botany. 


reason he often omitted the discoveries of Tournefort, whom 
he also viewed, and with justice, as his most powerful 
rival. But the most remarkable instance of his oversight 
is to be found in the lower orders of vegetables ; an obvious 
example of which is afforded by Fungi, of which he 
notices in the most perfect of his works,only 93 species, 
at a time when Micheli had described nearly 800 species of 
Agaricus, or at least of Pileate Fungi, peculiar to Italy alone. 
For this reason, it follows that a just criterion of the number 
of plants known in the days of Linnzeus can by no means be 
formed from consulting that writer’s works alone; if, on the 
contrary, we take into account his omissions, and deduct from 
the Institutes of Tournefort one third for garden varieties which 
are improperly ranked as species in that work, we shall be 
justified in fixing the number of species actually described in 
works of botany at the time of Linnzeus’s death, in the year 
1778, at the following numbers: 


Species 
Described in the second edition of the Species Plantarum and 
the Mantissas ¢iip<) et} ay) Pa = died ee 8800 
‘in the Institutes of Tournefort (not noticed by Linnzus) 1000 
in Micheli, and other authors upon cryptogamous 
plants (not noticed by Linnzeus) - - - 1000 
in the works of Hernandez, Piso, Morison, Ray, Bauhin, 
&c. being either not taken up or confounded with 
others by Linnzeus - Smita ier - 800 


— 


making the whole number of plants, of all kinds, actually de- 
scribed at that time, amount to 11,600 or in round numbers 
to 12,000 species. 

From the time of Linnzeus to the present moment the. ad- 
vance of botany has been so prodigious, that the number of 
species of plants of all denominations now known cannot 
be estimated at a sum short of 100,000. ‘The elegance, 
and the classical form bestowed upon the science by the 
labours of the learned Swede, and by the more philosophical 
principles of Jussieu, and of the French school of botany, have 
given to the study of the vegetable world that rank among 
the sciences which its actual importance demands. Princes 
and potentates have become its patrons, and nobles its 
professors; vast sums have been expended in its support by 
the governments of Spain, of France, of the various German 
States, of Denmark, and of Russia; and in Great Britain the 
private munificence of individuals has amply compensated 
for the indifference of the government. The advantages 
arising from such powerful aid have not disappointed the ex- 
pectations entertained from them; and the rapid progress of 


Systematic Botany. 161 


the science towards perfection has amply justified the patron- 
age it has received. 

Having premised thus much, we now come to a consider- 
ation of the work before us. Professor Sprengel has long 
been known as a botanist, more deeply learned in the litera- 
ture of the science than any person living. His Historia Rei 
Herbarize, one of the most useful and excellent works the 
world ever saw, has proved him to be an accomplished 
scholar and judicious critic. Indeed, the learning and 
acumen displayed in that curious production, have rarely 
been equalled in any branch of literature. It is owing, 
perhaps, to this particular direction of his studies, that Pro- 
fessor Sprengel’s reputation as a philosophical botanist has 
not kept pace with his celebrity as a scholar. While the 
work to which we have alluded, and some similar subjects of 
antiquarian research have given him a claim to the very highest 
place in the class of critical botanists, it cannot be concealed 
that his Introduction to Botany, and to the Study of Cryp- 
togamous Plants, have hitherto fixed him in a much lower 
rank among practical and philosophical botanists; a rank 
from which neither his labours upon Umbelliferae, nor the 
work under consideration, are, we feel bound to say, cal- 
culated to elevate him. 

We are fully sensible how important are any attempts to ex- 
tricate botany from the disorder by which it is now embarrassed, 
and we admit, most willingly, that the world is obliged by 
almost any attempts to bring the contents of the innumerable 
botanical works which have appeared within the last fifteen 
years into one view. Even the abortion of Romer and 
Schultes was in some degree useful; and the unpretending 
nomenclature of Dr. Steudel is of the utmost value; but when 
we place the work of Professor Sprengel by the side of De 
Candolle’s Prodromus, the difference is too striking to allow 
us to overlook it. 

The difficulties of any undertaking of the kind have now, 
however, become so great, that the utmost indulgence must 
be shown to any work possessing one half only of the merits 
of Professor Sprengel’s. It is, indeed, delightful to see a 
man, fast hastening into the vale of years, and upon whose 
head the suns of more than sixty summers have already shone, 
boldly undertaking a labour which appears too mighty to be 
accomplished in the longest life. 


(To be continued. } 


162 Gardening and Indigenous Botany. 


Art. II. Gardening and Indigenous Botany. 

It was our intention in this number to have commenced a 
regular analysis of the different works enumerated in our 
former article of this title; with the addition of Dr. Greville’s 
work, before inadvertently omitted.: But we were then in 
hopes that our Hortus Britannicus would have been pub- 
lished before this time. This not being the case, the delay 
affords us the opportunity of including in the Hortus all 
the species in the hitherto published numbers of the periodical 
works alluded to, and therefore, any farther notice of them 
at present is unnecessary. We have only to introduce to 
our readers the work of Dr. Greville, and some remarks on 
the Botanical Register and Botanical Magazine. 


1. The Scottish Cryptogamic Flora. By Rosert K. GReviLxz, 
LL.D. &c. Maclachlan and Stewart, Edinb.; and Baldwin, 
Cradock, and Joy, Lond. 8vo. ; 

It has been already stated, that one of the objects of the 
Gardener’s Magazine is to form a continued record of all 
that is new or interesting in the periodical botanical litera- 
ture of this country ; and to render such a record a kind of 
perpetual supplement to the work now in preparation by 
the Conductor of this Magazine, under the title of the En- 
cyclopzedia of Plants, and an abstract of it under that of 
Hortus Britannicus. As these works will not cnly contain 
all the cultivated plants which have been from time to time in- 
troduced into our gardens, but will also comprehend the whole 
extent of the British Flora, including the lowest tribes of 
cryptogamic vegetation, it is impossible to omit a reference 
to the above truly admirable work of Dr. Greville upon the 
cryptogamous plants of Scotland; a work which may be 
honestly designated as so excellent, that nothing can be 
found to compete with it in the whole range of indigenous 
botany, except the new series of. the Flora Londinensis ; 
whether we consider the importance of its critical discussions, 
the accuracy cf the drawings, the minuteness of the analyses, 
or the unusual care which is evident in the publishing de- 
partment. After expressing this opinion, we are sure the 
work will need no further recommendation with the public. 

2. Botanical Register and Botanical Magazine. 

The following remarks have been sent us by a Corre- 
spondent. 

‘¢ To those who bind up botanical periodical works in the 
order in which they are published, it matters not, if two 
pages of text are given on the same leaf, as it offers no in- 
convenience beyond that of throwing one of the plates to 
the right hand instead of the left; but those who prefer the 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 163 


classical arrangement to the numerical, will find an insu- 
perable obstacle to their plan, in this union of two species, 
unless the two species happen to belong to one genus, or to 
genera closely allied. In two instances, however, which we 
have observed, of this deviation from the general rule in 
the Botanical Register (viz. pp.’730. and 947.), this is not 
the case; and consequently, in a classical arrangement of 
the volumes in which they appear, two species of the four 
must, of necessity, be misplaced. 

“‘ Notwithstanding the laboured kind of defence which is 
set up at fol. 2005, of the Botanical Magazine, the sub- 
scribers to that work have quite enough te endure, in meet- 
ing with so many plants which have been before figured, in 
modern works of acknowledged accuracy, without their being 
presented with repetitions of the same plants in the Botanical 
Magazine itself; and whether every such repetition is accom- 
panied with an apology (as at fol. 981.2313. 2543, &c.), or 
is foisted upon them without one (as at fol. 2508. 2555. 2596.), 
they are, in this respect, to say the least of it, paying for a 
portion of matter which they ought not to be charged with.” 

The same correspondent regrets the prevailing propensity 
for the change of botanical nomenclature without sufficient 
reason, and instances Acacia Conspicua changed to A. Vestita. 
Bot. Reg. p. 698. 


Art. III. Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London, 
Vol. V. Bulmer & Co. 1824. 


(Continued from page 73.) 
67. A Note on the Pears called Silvanges, and particularly on the 
Silvange Verte (Green Silvange). By “M. Charles Francis 


Piérard, of Manjouay, near Verdun-sur-Meuse ; Corresponding 
Member of the Horticultural Society. Read March 2. 1824. 


The name is derived from a hamlet on an antient road 
leading to Treves. ‘There are four sub-varieties of silvanges, 
the early, the yellow, the,long, and the green. ‘The green is 
the best; all are rather tender, and require a good soil and a 
sheltered situation to ensure handsome and good fruit. 


68. On the Preparation of Strawberry Plants for early Forcing. 
By Thomas Andrew Knight, Esq. F.R.S. &c. © President. 
Read March 16. 

Gardeners have two methods of preparing strawberries for 
forcing ; one is to put the plants in pots a year or more before 


164 Transactions of the Horticultural Soczety. 


they are set into the hothouse; another is, to lift them at once 
from the open garden with balls of earth, put them in pots, and 
immediately begin to force them. The latter method is ge- 
nerally preferred, as least expensive and troublesome. It is 
also Mr. Knight’s method. In the course of his paper on the 
subject, Mr. Knight combats the opinion “that the minute 
fibrous roots of a Y plant, like its leaves, are organs of annual 
duration only.” Wéilldenow and some others have affirmed 
this, but we believe it never was the opinion of practical gar- 
deners, at least in this country. 


69. On Transplanting Peas for early Crops. Ina Letter to the 
Secretary. By Mr. Daniel Judd, F.H.S. Read March 26. 1824. 
Mr. Judd has been in the habit, for the last thirteen years, 

of transplanting his first crop of early peas, and also his first 
of large late peas. He generally sows in January in pots, and 
transplants from the beginning of February till the beginning 
or middle of March. ‘The peas are turned out of the pots, 
and abcut two inches cf the bottoms cut off; before the plants 
are separated. In parting them care is taken to keep them 
in tufts of about four or six plants, which are inserted in 
trenches, in rows, in the usual manner. A row planted in 
this way on the 3d of February was, on the Ist of March fol- 
lowing, three inches high; while another by the side of it, 
sown in the natural way, and which had made its appearance 
above ground before the others were planted, were very little 
more than one inch high. Peas will come earliest in poor 
light soil, but the best crop will always be on light rich soil. 


70. Some Account of the Edible Fruits of Sierra Leone. Drawn 
up by Joseph Sabine, Esq. F.R.S. &c. Secretary, from the 
Journal and personal Communication of Mr. George Don, A.L.S. 
Read March 18. 1823. 

Mr. George Don, who was sent out by the Horticultural 
Society for the general object of collecting plants and seeds, 
happened fortunately to reside, some weeks, at Sierra Leone 
in the season when the fruits there, were for the most part in 
perfection. He arrived at Sierra Leone on the 18th of Feb. 
1822, and quitted the colony on the 11th of April following, 
and his information, added to that of Mr. Brown of the 
Banksian library, and some previously published documents, 
has enabled Mr. Sabine to give some account of the following 
fruits of Sierra Leone and its vicinity. 

Sarcocephalus esculentus, a fleshy fruit, the size eal a full 
grown peach. ‘The plant grows vigorously i in the stove, and 
is readily increased by cuttings. Plants of it may easily be 
. procured from the London nurserymen. 


Transactions of the Horticulturai Society. 165 


Anona Senegalensis, the African custard apple, about the 
size of a pigeon’s ege. 

Adansonia digitata, monkey bread; fruit large, oblong, 
farinaceous, tasting like gingerbread. 

Inga biglobosa, locust tree; the pods contain a farinaceous 
substance enveloping the seeds, similar in flavor to the monkey 
bread, and eaten by the negroes. 

Country cherries ; the species producing them unknown. 

Anisophylleia laurina, monkey apple; the size of a pigeon’s 
egg, and in flavor between a nectarine and a plum. 

Vitis caesia, country grapes; small, austere, and acid; the 
plant in some degree herbaceous. 

Country currants, resembling elderberries; the plant pro- 
bably an Antidesma. 

Ficus Brassia, in memory of Mr. William Brass, a col- 
lector in 1782 and 1783, who sent it from Cape Coast. A 
large fruit, like the white ischia fig. 

Small fig, species not known. 

Psidium pyriferum, wild guavas, rather smaller than the 
guavas of the West Indies. 

Spondias myrobalanus, hog-plum ; the tree like an ash; 
the fruit the size of a wallnut; in taste and consistency not 
unlike our common plum. 

_Parinarium excelsum, rough-skinned plum; a timber tree, 


_ with fruit like the imperatrice plum, in size and shape; the 


skin rough and greyish, and the pulp dry, farinaceous, and 
insipid. 

Parinarium macrophyllum, ginger bread plum; the fruit 
twice the size of the last; grown on a very handsome shrub. 

Chrysobalanus ellipticus, small pigeon plum, about the size 
of a large damson. 

Chrysobalanus luteus, yellow pigeon plum; shaped like an 
Orleans plum. 

Sugar plum, of the size of the bullace plum, growing on 
a plant which throws out roots from its stem, from the height 
of upwards of ten feet, like a mangrove or a pandanus, by 
which singular character it may be distinguished at a consider- 
able distance. 

Vitex umbrosa, black plum; the tree resembles the horse 
chesnut ; the fruit was not seen by Mr. Don. 

Carpodinus dulcis, sweet pishamin, a climbing shrub, with 
fruit resembling a lime. 

Mammea’ Africana, mammee apple; a lofty timber tree, 
with fruit the size of a man’s fist, and of equal excellence 
with the West India mammee. 

Pentadesma butyracea, butter and tallow tree; a timber tree 

Vot. I. No. 2. N 


166 Transactions of the Horticultural Soctety. 


with fruit about the size of the mammee, which when opened 
gives out a yellow greasy juice, of a strong turpentine flavor, 
mixed by the natives with their food. 

Chrysophyllum macrophyllum, and obovatum, star apples, 
like those of the West Indies. 

Tonsilla pyriformis, a fruit like a Bergamot pear, of “ ex- 
traordinary merit.” 

Pomegranate, said to be an excellent fruit, but different 
from the genus Punica. 

Sterculia acuminata ; the seeds are considered as possessing 
the same virtues as Peruvian bark. 

Tola, seeds used like those of sterculia. 

Codarium acutifolium, two varieties; velvet and brown, 
tamarind ; the farinaceous substance contained in the pods is 
used as food. 

Bromelia ananas, the pine apple. 

“ Afzelius says that pine apples grow wild, and are also culti- 
vated by the natives. Mr. Don states that they are so abundant 
in the woods as to obstruct the passage through them in every 
direction ; they grow vigorously, and bear fruit abundantly. 

“: The profusion in which those plants are found both in frequented 
and unfrequented places, sanctions the opinion which is commonly 
entertained in the colony, that they are not of foreign origin, but 
indigenous inhabitants. This is contrary to the doctrine of sci- 
entific botanists, who hold that pine apples have been carried from 
America into Africa and Asia; yet it is difficult to conceive how 
such an exotic should have so established itselfas to have assumed 
all the habits and characters of anative in those regions, and more 
especially that it should have sported in them into varieties (as is 
the case more particularly in some parts of Asia) so remarkably dif- 
ferent from any that are known to exist in the countries of which 
alone they are supposed to be the original inhabitants. 

“ Two sorts of pine apples are cultivated by the colonists at Sierra 
Leone, one called the white, and the other the black pine apple; 
they are not so large as those produced in England, but have a 
superior flavor. ‘The wild varieties are numerous. A very plea- 
sant kind of wine is made in the colony from the juice of this 
fruit.” P. 462. 

From the above list, compared with that of the wild fruits 
of Sierra Leone in the report of Dr. Afzelius to the African 
Society, it appears that Mr. Don had observed more during a 
visit of a few weeks than Dr. Afzelius during a residence of 
several years; a circumstance highly creditable to the indus- 
try of Mr. Don. Besides these native fruits, they cultivate in 
the colony all the best of those grown in the West Indies. 

So ample a list of fruits from one spot, may at first damp the 
ardor of those who hope to see all the exotic fruits of the world 
grown in this country; but when once it shall be as common 


Transactions of the Horticultural Socvety. 167 


to cover three or four acres of ground with a glass roof, as 
it is now to cover a few square yards, a Sierra Leone orchard 
will be a matter of ne difficulty. The original expence being 
once incurred of covering an acre, the after management, 
excepting fuel, will be little more expensive than that of a 
flower-garden. 


71. Directions for the Management of the Hothouse Fire-places, 
that are constructed with Double Doors, and Ash-pit Registers. 
By William Atkinson, Esq. F.H.S. Read April 6. 1824. 


This is a valuable practical paper, and ought to be maturely 
studied by all those that have the care of hothouse fires. In 
abridging it, we will endeavour to give the sense as completely 
as possible. 

After the fire is lighted, the fire-place door should be kept 
close, and no more air admitted by the ash-pit door than is 
necessary to make it burn briskly, — not violently, — because 
that increases the waste of fuel, without increasing the heat. At 
all times the air that is necessary for blowing the fire must be 
admitted by the ash-pit door, or register, in order that it may 
get heated in passing through the fire to the flame. When air 
is admitted by the fire-place door, it will generally rush over 
the fire into the flue, without being heated, thus tending to 
cool the flue, instead of heating it. 

When the flue is properly heated, and the fuel burned 
nearly to redness, scarcely any air need be admitted by the 
ash-pit door; in most eases the fire will burn with what air gets 
through the crevices in the iron work. ‘The damper should 
also be put in as far as it can be, so as only to keep the fire 
just alive, and prevent, as much as is practicable, heat escap- 
ing by the chimney. The object is to generate heat in the fire- 
place, just as fast, and no faster, than it is required to be given 
out by the flue, for maintaining the temperature of the house. 

Equal quantities of coal and small cinders keep up a steadier 
fire than either alone. Before adding fresh fuel to the fire, 
push that which is unconsumed towards the farther ends o. 
the bars, and apply the fresh fuel immediately behind it, so 
as to fill up the space close to the fire-place door. When fresh 
fuel is thrown over the surface of a hot fire, it produces an 
immense volume of smoke and blacks; when added in front 
of the fire much of the smoke given out is consumed in pass- 
ing over the part ignited. When fuel is thrown to the further 
end of the fire, or into the throat of the flue after the fire has 
burnt low, and the flue is hot, “‘the heat of the brick work 
distils gas out of the coals; this gas gets into the flue, and 
when the fuel over the fire becomes inflamed, if the flame be 

N 2 


168 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


drawn into the flue it ignites. the gas that has been there gene- 
rated, and causes an explosion; this ought to be particularly 
_ attended to, as an explosion of gas in the flue may destroy a 
valuable collection of plants ina moment.”  P. 469. 

It is a common practice with gardeners and others, in sup- 
plying fuel to furnaces, to draw the live coals to the front of 
the fire-place, and apply the fresh fuel beyond; the proper 
practice, it will be observed, is directly the reverse. 

Applying the cold fuel next the door, tends to prevent the 
door from warping with the heat of the fire. When not in use, 
all the external parts of a furnace ought to be cleaned and 
oiled to prevent rust. Apply your own hands to the handles in 
opening and shutting, and not the spade or shovel as is fre- 
quently practised, and very injurious. A short spade, and a 
short rake wholly of iron, are all the tools requisite for the 
garden furnace. 


72. On Forcing Grapes, as practised in Denmark. In a Letter to 
the Secretary. By Mr. Peter Lindegaard, Gardener to His 
Majesty the King of Denmark, at the Palace of Rosenburgh, 
Corresponding Member of the Horticultural Society. Read 
July 17, 1823. 

The object of this paper seems to be, to prove that fine and 
well-flavored grapes may be produced by means of horse- 
dung and tan without the assistance of fire;) and that when 
grapes are forced slowly in this way so as to ripen about the 
middle or latter end of September, they possess the property of 
keeping till March or April following. The sorts Mr. Linde- 
gaard prefers are the white Chasselas, and the Frankendal. 
In his soil he introduces old rubbish, farriers’ parings of hoofs, 
horns, bones, &c. and oyster-shells. A pit within the house is 
filled with fresh horse-dung; sufficient air is given to allow 
the steam to escape, and after some time when the dung has 
settled, it is covered with tan about a foot thick, and the 
house shut night and day, excepting during sunshine. 
Nothing is said about fresh supplies of dung, but these, we 
conclude, must be added as circumstances require. In 1822, 
Mr. Lindegaard commenced forcing in this way on the 19th 
of February, and on the 14th of July some of the Frankendal 
berries turned black, and, by the beginning of September, 
they were fully ripe. Such as were intended for winter use 
he kept on the branches till the 20th of October: some of 
the bunches, weighing two pounds, were fit for use on the 
8th of April 1823, the date of his paper. 

Mr. Lindegaard has observed, that grapes forced in large 
houses seldom attain so dark a colour as those which are ripened 


Transactions of the Horticuitural Soctety. 169 


in smaller houses, or frames where the fruit can be more 
affected by the sun’s rays. To remedy this defect in a wide 
house, he has for some years past put boards under the trellis 
in the vineries, placing them at such a distance from the vines 
as that the grapes can hang free. The result is, grapes of almost 
as fine a colour as those in the smaller houses, and tne boards 
assist in ripening the wood. | 


73. On Fig-trees, and an Account of their Cultivation in a Fig- 
house in the Garden of the late Earl of Bridgewater ut Ashridge 
in Hertfordshire. By Joseph Sabine, Esq. F.R.S., &c. Secre- 
tary. Read March 16, 1824. 


Three plants of the brown ischia are trained against aback wall 
of a narrow-house, upwards of sixty feet long. Fire is usually 
applied about the end of January, anda similar climate to that 
of forcing cherries attempted. The first crop of fruit begins 
to ripen early in June, and lasts till the middle of August. The 
second crop extends from the middle, or some period between 
that and the end of September, till Christmas. Thus a supply 
of figs during upwards of six months is obtained. 

In October 1825, the conductor saw this fig-house, in 
which was the remainder of a good crop. Young wood was 
pretty equally distributed over the whole of the back wall. 


74. Notices of Communications to the Horticultural Society between 
May 1, 1821, and January 1, 1822, of which separate Accounts 
have not been published in the Transactions. Extracted from the 

- Minute Books and Papers of the Society. 


Mr. Thomas Fleetwood, of Dunnington near Alcester, 
hastens the maturity of grapes on open walls by the following 
method. Before the vines are out of flower, he brings each 
bunch into a perpendicular position by a thread attached to its 
extremity and fastened to a nail in the wall, carefully confining 
the young branch with the bunch thereon, as close to the wall 
as possible. Fixed in this way, they ripen a month earlier than 
when left to hang in the usual way. 

T. Patherus, Esq. destroys insects on apple and cherry trees, 
by rubbing with fresh green leaves of foxglove (digitalis pur- 
purea). 

C. S. Dickens, Esq. has constructed a hot-bed for forcing 
cucumbers, as follows. ‘¢ Instead of torming a solid bed of 
dung, as is usually done, he constructs four brick piers, one 
foot and a half high, and nine inches square, to support a two- 
light frame. Two pieces of timber, four inches square, are 
laid from pier to pier at back and front; on these is laid a 


N Jv 


170 Transactions of the Horticultural Soczety. 


platform of boards an inch and a half thick ; these are plas- 
tered with neats’ dung, which when dry, is covered two inches 
thick with good mould, and the frame is placed on the piers. 
Under the centre of each light, a bushel of mould is laid, form- 
ing a hillock. After this the lights are put on, and linings of 
hot dung applied all round, the interior space remaining “hol- 
low. In two days, the bed is fit for use; if the heat is found 
to decrease, a wheelbarrow full of fresh dung is added, and 
shaken up with the linings, and well watered. In order to 
confine the heat, the whole of the linings are plastered with 
neats’ dung, by which means a temperature is obtained of 
from 75 to 80 degrees. A bed which was thus made on the 
3d of February, produced on the 30th of March, two fine 
cucumbers measuring 13 inches in length.” P. 491. 

Mr. John Anderson, ¢ oardener to the Earl of Essex, at Ca- 
shiobury, grows celery i in trenches six feet wide and one foot 
deep, inserting the plants in rows across the trench; a method 
generally pr actised by the market gardeners, in the. neighbour- 
hood of Edinburgh. 

M. Pronville, of Versailles, finds that certain beautiful 
varieties of rose lose their improved colours, and return to 
their primitive state, when kept on their own roots. He 
therefore grafts them on stocks of wild rose, which besides 
placing the flowers at an agreeable height from the ground, 
retains the variety in perfection. 

Mr. John Mearns, gardener to William Harbing, Esq., at 
Shopden Court near Leominster, grows early cucumbers in a 
pit (fg. 32.) the walls of which (a) are of open wicker work. 

82 


AIL GIN 
WUT DLAI TG A, ¢ caddy | 
LA Oe 


Si c 2 ; 
=e PME AG IAT [eat 
Whe | SS | : 

—_——— 


There is a cavity under the bed (c), into which the steam 


from the dung lining is admitted; posts of iron or stone’(d) 
support this bed (d), which is made of slate, stones, or tiles, 
while the cavity between it and the sides of the pit. are closed 
below with slabs of stone (e). The pit is heated by dung 


! 


‘ 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 171 


linings (f), inclosed by walls (g), and kept dry by drains 
(2), and by a gutter to the sashes (z). ‘The plants are inserted 
in a hill (4), and gradually earthed up in the usual manner. 
This pit is much cheaper than Mc Phail’s, especially if the 
retaining walls (g) are omitted. 

Mr. John Nairn, gardener to Thomas Forbes Reynolds, Esq., 
of Carshalton, has grafted cactus flagelliformis, speciosus, and 
speciocissimus, on cactus triqueter, which makes a singular 
plant, especially when the different species display their fine 
blossoms ; he says, “ I take a small part of the plant I pro- 
pose to engraft, and attach it, by cutting away a slice of the 
fleshy part of the stock, taking off also from the piece to be 
attached, a small portion of the flesh, to secure its adhesion; 
the sap is so glutinous, that the piece will adhere without tying, 
but it is most advisable to fasten it with bass; great care, how- 
ever, must be taken not to bruise it, for such an injury will 
cause it to rot. An union will soon be formed, and the graft 
will grow freely. The pendent direction will cause the scions 
to produce their blossoms, not only more abundantly, but 
earlier.” Cactus pereskia answers equally well for an elevat- 
ing stock, as triqueter. 

Mr. William Gibson, gardener to Henry Peters, Esq., at 
Betchworth Castle, in Surrey, grows pine-apples under a frame, 
with the heat of leaves alone. In the fruiting frames, the 
plants are plunged about three inches above the rims of 
the pots, so that they throw out roots among the leaves, re- 
quire less water than usual, and produce fruit of a higher 
flavor. . 

Joseph Brookhouse, Esq., of Warwick, grows cucumbers in 
a dung bed in the front of a peach-house ; the peaches being 
trained against a back wall. The cucumber shoots are trained 
about four feet up wires under the front glass. 

Mr. John Reid, of Yalding, Kent, exhibited a syringe, with 
recent improvements, a figure and description of which we 
have given in the 2d edition of the Encyc. of Gard. § 1419. 

A remarkably large gooseberry plant grows in the garden 
of Mr. William Bates, a market gardener at Duffeld, near 
Derby; it is planted on the east side of a steep hill, the sub- 

*. “stratum of the soil being a hard grit-stone. It has been there 
for at least 46 years; its branches extend to 12 yards in 
circumference, and they have produced several pecks of fruit 
annually for these last 30 years. It is usually manured with 
soap-suds, and the drainings from the dunghill. ‘There are 
two other gooseberry plants, nearly of the same size, in the 
garden at Overton Hall, near Chesterfield, the seat of the late 
Sir Joseph Banks. 

N 4 


al 2 Transactions of the Horticultural Soczety. 


The younger plant is trained to a building, and measures 
53 feet 4 inches from one extremity to the other, yielding 
annually froin four to five pecks of fruit. The other, whose 
‘age is not ascertained, is against a north wall, extends 54 feet, 
and is beginning to decay. Both grow in brown light leaves. 
The name of the variety at Duffield, is the Champagne; the 
names of those at Overton were not ascertained. 


75. Description of a Vinery, and Mode of Training practised in it. 
In a Letter to the Secretary. By Mr. William Beattie, Gar- 
dener to the Earl of Mansfield, F.H.S. at Scone, near Perth, 
Corresponding Member of the Horticultural Society. Read 
October 7, 1823. 


The vinery was designed and built by William Atkinson, 
Esq., in 1807. It is fifty feet long, eight and a half feet wide in- 
side, and fourteen and a half feet high, with a front wall two feet 
high, wherein are ventilators two feet by one foot each, moved 
by means of jointed iron handles. ‘There are also ventilators 
at the top under each sash, three feet by nine inches, which 
are moved by pullies. In consequence of this mode of ven- 
tilation, the sashes are made fast, and never taken off; from 
which no inconvenience arises in point of ripening the wood, 
but an advantage in protecting the flues from frost. ‘The vines 
are planted within the house, near the front wall, through 
arches, in which their roots have access to the front border. 
They are trained in part under the front glass, then obliquely, 
till they reach the back wall, about half its height from the 
floor of the house, and lastly up the back wall. ‘There are 
also cross trellises under each rafter, by which a great extent 
of surface is obtained to train on, compared with that on 
houses of much larger dimensions. The sashes being fixed 
are less liable to accident, and the mode of ventilating is not 
so apt to admit wasps as the common practice. 


76. Description of a Pine-house and Pits. In a Letter to the 
Secretary. By Charles Holford, Esq. F.H.S. Read June 17, 
1823. . 


The pine-house is fifty feet long, by thirteen wide, heated by 
steam, or by flues, at pleasure. The ventilation is effected by 
means of the top sashes, and eight moveable shutters, three 
feet long, by six inches wide, placed in the upper part of the 
back wall. 

The pits are of brick work, on Mc Phail’s plan; two are 
parallel with each other, by which the dung placed between 
them heats both. The dung linings are covered all round 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 173 


with boarded shutters. Mr. Holford says, if ventilation. is 
required in severe weather, it can be effected by metallic pipes ; 
but there are always fine days enough to admit of opening the 
sashes for this purpose. : 


77. Description of an Apparatus for ventilating Hothouses. In a 
Letter to the Secretary. By Mr. George Mugliston of Repton, 
near Derby. Read April 6, 1824. 


An ingenious plan, but not calculated to be effective on a 
large scale, without occupying too much room. Mr. Kew- 
ley’s plan (Encyc. of Gard. 1490) or one which we have heard 
Mr. Sylvester describe, would, in our opinion, be greatly su- 
perior, as they would operate directly on the common sashes 
of any hothouse. In the case of iron-roofed houses, liable to 
be suddenly elevated in temperature, by sudden gleams of 
sunshine, and depressed by clouds, or wind, a good contriv- 
ance of this sort might be advantageously introduced. 


78. On the Protection of the Blossoms of Wall Trees. By Thomas 
Andrew Knight, Esq. F.R.S. and President. Read June 15, 
1824. 

Woollen nets, or a patent imitation of netting, having the 
meshes sufficiently wide to admit the ingress of bees, is the 
best material; but “ I employ and recommend small branches 
of two feet in length, of the birch tree, collected as soon as 
the leaves have become full grown in the end of June, and 
preserved till the following spring.” Secure them bya few 
nails and shreds, with their pomts hanging perpendicularly 
downwards. When danger is over, take them away in small 
quantities at a time. : 


79. On the Cultivation of Asparagus, during the Winter. By 
Mr. Peter Lindegaard, Gardener to His Majesty the King of 
Denmark, at the Royal Gardens of Rosenburgh, Corresponding 
Member of the Horticulturai Society. Read May 4, 1824. 


My chief crop is always delivered on the king of Den- 
mark’s birth-day, January 28th, and forcing is consequently 
commenced four or five weeks before that date. Stir up the 
beds in the open garden with a fork, and heighten them with 
a spit taken from the alleys, which are two feet wide; the beds 
are four feet wide, and there are two rows on each bed ; deepen 
the alleys to three and a half feet, then fill them with hot 
dung, and cover the beds with litter. One plank over the 
alley and another along the centre of the bed, between the 
two rows, will enable a man to walk and gather the crop, 
without injuring any thing. 


174 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


80. The Method of rearing Seed in the East Indies, of the Carrot, 
Turnip, and Radish, to ‘prevent the Deterioration of those Veget- 
ables. By William Ingledew, Esq. Read April 2, 1822. 


In India and other hot countries, many culinary vegetables 
very soon become deteriorated; seeds are consequently im- 
ported from England every year; but these, from various 
causes, are either decayed or dead on their arrival. ‘The follow- 
ing practice of the Indian gardeners to procure good seeds is 
of unknown antiquity: they first prepare a compost of buffalo’s 
and swine’s dung, red maiden earth, adding assafcetida, in the 
proportion of about three drachms to five quarts of the mixture, 
ina state of paste. The vegetables from which seeds are to be 
raised, are taken up when they have attained about one third 
of their natural growth; the tops are cut off within a few 
inches of the crown, and also the tap-root: there remains 
now the edible part, from the bottom of which, to within an 
inch of the crown, are made two incisions across each other 
entirely through the bulb. These bulbs are then dipped into 
the compost until they be well covered by it, both externally’ 
and internally ; they are then planted and watered, and speedily 
produce strong and luxuriant stalks, large blossoms, and abund- 
ance of seeds. 

Innumerable roots are thrown out from the incised edges, 
which is probably the rationale of this part of the practice ; “the 
compost can hardly act im any other way than in excluding the 
air, and promoting the healing of the wound; it may r also 
afford some nourishment to the tender fibres on their first 
appearance, while the assafcetida may keep off insects. 


81. Description of an Elruge Nectarine Tree, in the Garden of 
West Dean House, Sussex. In a Letter to the Secretary. By 
Mr. John Bowers, Gardener to Lord Selsey, F.H.S. Read 
July 6, 1824. 

This tree is trained to a wooden trellis, within a glass roof, 
and at a foot distance. The length of the trellis is 29 feet, and 
the width 22, giving 638 square feet, filled with fine bearing 
wood, which has for the last eleven years produced, on an 
average, about sixty dozen of fine fruit every season. The 
tree was planted in 1793, and the trunk, four inches above the 
surface, is thirty-two inches in circumference. 


82. A Classification of Peaches and Nectarines. By Mr. George 
Lindley, Corresponding Member of the Horticultural Society. 
Read Jan. 6, 1824. 

On this valuable paper we intend afterwards to make a se- 
parate article, by which the improvements it introduces in 


Slaney on Rural Expenditure. 175 


arrangement may be rendered available to practical gar- 
deners. ‘The same arrangement and sorts, unless something 
better occurs, will be given in the catalogue of fruits at the 
end of our Hortus Britannicus. 


Appenpix I. — Biographical Sketch made by the Secretary, at a 
Special General Meeting of the Society, held on the \st of Oct. 
1822, for the Purpose of electing a Member of the Council in the 
room of Mr. James Dicksen, deceased. 


See Encyc. of Gard. 2d edit. p. 1113, A.D. 1805. 


Il. — A List of. Pears cultivated in France and the Netherlands, 
with the Periods of their Maturity, their Quality, Size, Flavor, 
&c. By Le Chevalier Joseph Parmentier, Corresponding Mem- 
ber of the Horticultural Society. 


This list is useful, as indicating the time of ripening, quality, 
flavor, size of the fruit, and the situation most proper 
for the tree; and also to those who do not understand 
French, the proper mode of spelling the names. All these 
sorts, and many others, will be enumerated in the catalogue 
of fruits at the end of our Hortus Britannicus. 


Art. IV. Essay on the Beneficial Direction of Rural Expenditure. 
By Rogsert SLaney, Esq. London. 12mo. 


WE shall take the opportunity offered by our notice of this 
work, to give our sentiments respecting the well-being and the 
well-doing of the agricultural labourers of England ; subjects 
most intimately and powerfully connected with the nealthy and 
vigorous state, not only of our prosperity, but alsc of our hap- 
piness and morals as a nation. Before, however, we go into 
these topics, it may be proper to premise our opinion of Mr. 
Slaney’s little volume. It is evidently the production of aman 
who has really at heart the advantage of those for whom he 
writes; and as this embraces the rational and beneficial amuse- 
ment of the rich, as well as the bettering of the condition and 
character of the poor, we should have received his work in 
good part, and given it the warm and sincere approbation of 
our heart, even if it had been less worthy than it is of re- 
ceiving the approbation of our judgment. We will not flat- 
ter him, however: he has exhibited, throughout the whole of 
it, undoubted proofs that he has thought much, read much, 
and seen much, regarding the subjects on which it treats; but 
we cannot help expressing our opinion, -that if he had trusted, 


176 Slaney on Rural Expenditure. 


more to his own thoughts, directed and aided as they must 
have been by his own observations and experience, he would 
have made a better book. We shall express its faults in a 
few words: it wants method and arrangement: it is too 
full of quotations, not always elucidating or bearing out the 
opinions of the author. He informs us, in his preface, that 
his wish is not only “ to suggest some occupations to the 
rich, which may combine amusement and advantage; but to 
introduce, at the same time, those maxims of political economy 
which appeared connected with the questions discussed.” 
We are not surprised that he has got himself entangled in 
the mazes of modern political economy ; for notwithstanding 
the high, we had almost said arrogant tone, with which its 
promulgators and teachers publish themselves to the world, 
as the first who have placed this science on a basis formed of 
philosophy and practical usefulness cemented together, we are 
of opinion that most of their first and elementary principles 
are much more calculated to perplex than to enlighten, and 
are, in reality, “ a form of words,” with little of the vitality 
of thought. Had Mr. Slaney, therefore, brought his own 
good sense to bear on the first principles of political economy, 
or, what would have been much better, had he brought it to 
bear on the process that necessarily occurs in the most simple 
cases of the production, distribution, and augmentation of 
wealth, — had he not puzzled himself with the definition of 
words, but neglecting them, looked into the things them- 
selves, —had he not become enamoured with the metaphysical 
subtilties of Mr. Malthus, — often so subtle and immaterial, 
as, on the approach of an acute and vigorous intellect to 
vanish into thin air—his maxims of political economy, 
connected with the questions discussed, weuld have been more 
clear, intelligible, and sound, and of mere service to the prac- 
tical part of his work. 

Of this practical part we shall now say a few words, before 
we dismiss our general notice of the volume, and proceed to 
our own subject. The practical part properly begins at 
chapter vii; and that our readers may have a fair and clear 
notice of it, we copy the contents of this and the following 
chapters: — 


Chap. vii. on Agricultural Improvements ; — viii. on Planting ; — 
ix. on Pruning Forest Trees ;— x. on improving Farm Buildings 
and Cottages ;—xi.on the Improvement of Roads and Foot- 
paths ; — xu. on the Preservation of Game ;— xiii. on Festivals 
for the Working Classes; — xiv. on the Formation of Public 
Libraries ;— xv. on the Collection of Works of Art for Public 
View;—xv on Preventive Charity ; Schools for the Poor ;— 


Slaney on Rural Expenditure. Les 


xvil. Savings Banks; Wages of the Peasantry ; — xviii. on Infir- 
maries and Fever Hospitals;— xix. on Loans to the Poor ; — 
xx. on providing Employment for those in Want of it; — xxi. on 
Places of Amusement and Exercise for the Labouring Classes ; — 
xxi. on the Advantages derived from Public Walks and Gardens. 
— Appendix, i. on Productive Investments for Capital during 
Peace ;—11. Progressive Increase in the Size of Trees ; — iii. Agri- 
cultural Kiln for burning Clay. 


Our readers, on the perusal of these contents will, we are 
sure, be convinced of the justice of our criticism, that the 
volume wants method and arrangement. There are likewise 
too many subjects treated of: they are all, undoubtedly 
connected more or less intimately with the main object of the 
volume. But to secure that main object, greater fullness and 
minuteness are requisite than could possibly be given to it, in 
such a small volume as this; frittered down, as the main 
topic is, into so many parts. 

The faults of this work therefore, are, first, that his maxims 
are borrowed too much from metaphysical, abstruse, and 
often erroneous writers on political economy; words and 
not things are attended to. ‘The most safe, sound, and per- 
manent practice, that which is most likely not only to extend, 
but to improve, ought certainly to rest on first principles, 
but these should be clear, undoubted, and really principles, 
not merely principles in words. A few of these would have 
done Mr. Slaney more service than all he has borrowed and 
quoted from Malthus, &c. The second fault, touching upon 
too many points; and not going with sufficient minuteness 
into any. Where the object of a writer is to benefit, espe- 
cially to benefit by removing what is detrimental, either to 
the condition or character of the great mass of the people, 
the advice, directions, and reasoning can hardly be too direct, 
full, and particular. There should be no excuse left for 
unwillingness, that it knows not how to proceed ; no cause 
for perplexity and doubt to those, who sincerely wish to 
further the object Mr. Slaney has in view. After all, and on 
the whole, a good object, good intentions, and the result of 
considerable thought, observation, experience, and reading ; 
at one, with us, for much more serious faults than we find in 
Mr. Slaney’s work, and justify us in recommending it to our 
readers, and in thanking him for his contribution to the com- 
mon weal. 

‘We shall now proceed to our own topic: in discussing 
this, we shall avail ourselves occasionally of the contents of 
Mr. Slaney’s volume;. and thus enable our readers to gain a, 
clearer insight into the nature and quality of its contents. 

S] 


178 Slaney on Rural Expenditure. 


We shall arrange what we have to offer under three heads; 
first, a comparison of the condition and character of the 
agricultural labours at present and in former times; secondly, 
a plain and simple enumeration and exposition of those 
general principles on which all attempts to better their con- 
dition and character must proceed, if we wish to produce a 
permanent beneficial result, and to strike at the root of the 
evil; and lastly, a detail of some of the chief practical means 
to accomplish these objects, founded on those principles. 
Under this head, we shall confine ourselves chiefly te the 
means of ameliorating their condition and character that 
may be derived from the beneficial direction of the income, 
and of the influence and example of the landed proprietors ; 
thus bringing our efforts to bear on the same points which 
Mr. Slaney in this work has in view. 

It isa lamentable and notorious fact, that the condition 
and the character of the agricultural labourers of many of 
the English counties, have sunk much below what they were 
half a century ago. And it requires no process of reasoning 
to prove that such cannot be the case without a grievous 
diminution of their own happiness and usefulness, and of 
the real best strength and stability of the country. Their 
condition is worse: a far greater number at present than half 
a century ago, are unable to procure constant and regular 
work, and the wages of such as can procure it, though 
nominally larger, are in reality much smaller. And if we 
go still further back, we shall find that the agricultural 
labourer, even at the distance of 300 or 400 years, at a time 
when the land was covered with ignorance and barbarism, 
had the command of more of the necessaries of life than they 
have in the present day. 

But on such a subject it will be necessary as well as in- 
structive to go into detail: general assertions go for little, 
and are besides very suspicious, when they do not rest on 
particular facts. Our positions are, that the agricultural 
labourers of the present day, by the wages they receive, are 
able to purchase fewer of the necessaries of life, than the 
agricultural labourers formerly could purchase by their wages ; 
that the present agricultural labourers obtain a less proportion 
of what their labour produces than their ancestors did; that 
their condition compared with that of manufacturing labourers 
is, at present, worse than it was formerly; and lastly, that, 
in the very midst of the wonderful and rapid improvement of 
the country in which they dwell, and to which improvement 
they have contributed their share; in the midst of farmers 


4 


Slaney on Rural Expenditure. 179 


living much better than they formerly did, and raised in all 
respects far above that level, at which their ancestors stood; 
in the midst of a great increase of real wealth to the landed 
proprietors, — to the bettering of the condition of both which 
classes, farmers and landlords, the agricultural labourers have 
mainly contributed —in the midst of all this wealth around 
them, — more productive fields, a much greater quantity of 
land in cultivation, richer farmers, richer landlords, — they 
alone are, not even stationary, but in many respects, and 
that especially which is of primary and essential importance, 
a command over the necessaries of life, they alone have 
retrograded, while all about them, all they see, all they are 
connected with, has been, and is rapidly and steadily ad- 
vancing. 

Our first position is, that the agricultural labourer is much 
inferior in ability to support a family to his ancestors, three 
or four centuries ago, and to what he was half a century 
since. ‘There may have been times, when, from the operation 
of temporary causes, this ability was less than it is at pre- 
sent; but as these temporary causes subsided, their effect 
disappeared; and the labourer rose to his former level of 
ability to support a family. And were the causes that at 
present depress the agricultural labourer temporary ; did they 
exhibit any symptoms of dissolution, or even weakness; did 
they not, on the contrary, exhibit annually all the symptoms 
of having struck deeper root, and of shedding their baneful 
influence over a wider tract, we should have hopes, and 
suffer the evil to die away of itself. But, convinced that the 
causes lie at the very heart’s core, we do not hesitate to assert, 
not only that the condition of the agricultural labourer is 
worse than it ever was, but that it is more desperate, seeing 
that the cause is not temporary, and that while all around 
smiles with prosperity, he alone is overshadowed with gloom ; 
while all around him share more or less in the daily encreas- 
ing improvement of the country, he alone, like Tantalus, 
labours but to be disappointed. ‘This is a strong picture; 
now to our proofs that it is a just one. 

It may be necessary, in the first place, to mention our 
authorities: these are, Sir John Cullum’s History of Haw- 
sted; Blomefield’s Norfolk; Sir Frederick Eden on the State 
of the Poor: Macpherson’s Edition of Anderson’s History 
of Commerce; Dr. Whitaker’s History of Whally; Hal- 
lam’s History of the Middle Ages, &c. Mr. Hallam justly 
characterises Blomefield’s Norfolk, as among the most yalu- 
able of our county histories. From it, and Cullum’s History 


186 Slaney on Rural Expenditure. 


of Hawsted, much curious and important information, re- 
garding the former state of agriculture, and of the agricul- 
tural labourers, may be derived. 

First: the agricultural labour is much inferior in ability 
to support a family to his ancestors, three or four centuries 
ago. We are aware that, besides food, clothing, habitation, 
and fuel are among the barest necessaries of life, and that 
some kinds of clothing are much cheaper at present than they 
were formerly; while the habitations of the poor are more 
adapted to health, and to defend them from the inclemencies 
of the weather, as well as more clean and comfortable. But of 
how little avail to the great mass of the agricultural labourers, 
those who have a wife and three or four children to support, 
is it, that all the articles of their dress made of cotton are a 
very great deal cheaper than they ever were, if at the same 
time all articles of food are much dearer; for after all, the 
real condition of the poor must, and ought to be estimated 
by their ability to procure food —what will keep them in 
healthful and strong existence, able to work and support 
themselves and families. A father of a family will care 
little that he can purchase a pair of cotton stockings for his 
child by the wages of half a day’s labour, whereas his an- 
cestors could not have purchased them by the wages of a 
week’s labour, if it require his wages of a week to purchase 
as much bread for his child, whereas his ancestors could have 
obtained the same by the wages of two or three days. By a 
comparison of wages and the price of corn, therefore, at 
different periods, we must gain our knowledge of the real 
condition of the poor at these periods. 

The labouring classes, especially those engaged in agri- 
culture, were better provided with the means of subsistence, in 
the reign of Edward III., or of Henry VI., than they are at 
present. Sir John Cullum, in his History of Hawsted, has 
shown, that in the fourteenth century, a harvest man had four- 
pence a day; this enabled him in a week to buy a comb or 
four bushels of wheat; when Sir John published his work, 
in 1784, a man was obliged to work ten or twelve days to 
purchase the same quantity of wheat. In the time of Henry VI. 
meat was about a farthing and a half a pound; a labourer, 
therefore, whose wages were three-pence a day, or eighteen 
pence a week, could buy a bushel of wheat at six shillings a 
quarter, and twenty-four pounds of meat for his family; 
whereas a labourer at present, earning twelve shillings a 
week, can purchase only half a bushel of wheat at sixty-four 
shillings a quarter, and six pounds of meat at eight-pence 
a pound. 


Slaney on Rural Expendzture. 181 


But to come nearer to our own time: the following state- 
ment, showing the proportion of the wages of the country 
jabourer to the price of corn, is given by Mr. Slaney. 


Weekly | Wheat per Wages in 


] | 
| P ne i: ih, | pay. | ye Deel | 
Suan Cle Ss) ah 
1742 to 1752 6 O 30 O 102 
1761 to 1770 eh 6 42 6 90 
1780 (to 7 17901) 88) 0 51 @ 80 
1795 to 1799 9 O | 70 8 65 } 
1 |, ON, usems 60 | 


1800 to 1008 !1 


In endeavouring to ascertain the real wages of labourers 
at various periods, so as to institute a comparison between 
their condition at present and formerly, several difficulties meet 
us. At present, there is no considerable difference between 
the price of the necessaries of life, and the wages of agricultural 
labour, throughout the whole extent of the kingdom ; this was 
by no means the case three or four centuries ago, when inter- 
communication between places not very remote, was almost 
impossible, or at least so slow and difficult, that prices and 
wages could not adjust themselves, before the temporary causes 
that affected them were at anend. From this circumstance, it 
follows that our data respecting former times are not such as to 
warrant us, in all cases, in drawing a general inference. 
Wheat and wages might in Lancashire be double what they 
were in Surrey, or the reverse. 

Another difficulty arises from the same denomination being 
given to coins containing very different quantities of the 
precious metals. Even after we have learnt that a shilling in 
the reign of William the Conqueror contained nearly as 
much silver as two shillings at present, and that a shilling in 
the reign of Henry VIII. contained only about half as much 
as at present, —it requires an effort of recoliection, not, to 
affix the same idea to the same denomination, and to believe 
and reason as if the shilling of William the Conqueror, Henry 
VIII. and George IV. were the same in intrinsic value as in 
denomination. 

This, however, is of little consequence, when we compare 
the price of various articles, and of wages at the same. period : 
if the standard is the same by which they are measured, it is 
of little consequence, whether the shilling be that of William, 
Henry, or George: it is only when we compare prices and 
wages at different periods, that we shall be able to institute 
an accurate comparison between the ability of a labourer to 
support his family at one period and at another, unless we 


Vou. I. No. 2. oO 


182 


Slaney on Rural Expenditure. 


always bear in mind what the term shilling means at these 
periods. 

We do not deem it necessary, therefore, to insert a com- 
parative table of English money at various periods ; but shall 


content ourselves with referrine 
Table on this topic. 


co) 


fo) 


to Mr. Frederic Eden’s 


In order, however, that our readers, 


may be able to ascertain the relative value of the principal 
articles of food, &c. at different periods, we shall extract the 
following particulars from the appendix to Macpherson’s 
edition of Anderson’s History of Commerce. 


A. D. 


1230. 


1272. 


1975. 


1283, 
1284. 


1289, 


1298. 


1360. 


1302, 


1317. 


Seed wheat, per passe 
— oats - - 
— beans 


Sheep - 

A labourer, per day 

A harvest man = 
Harrowing with one horse 
Oats in Scotland, per boll 


a 
io} 
a 
3 
0-00-30 
em a Osa ff} o 


Barley in ditto es 


Pl te) 


Sas cocooocoocecscocoh 


Wheat usually 3 
when scarce - 
A slave and his family sold by 
the Abbot of Dunstable for 0 
An ordinary horse in Berwick 1 
A carcase of mutton in ditto, 
from Easter to Whitsunday 0 
From Whitsunday to St. 
James’s Day = 
Thence to Michaelmas 
Thence to Easter - 
Wheat, per quaxter - 
Rye S & 
Barley - 
Beans and peas 
Oats - 
Aswan - 
Aduck - 
An ox - 
A cow 5 


A heifer 
A sheep 
Wheat, from - 
Oats 3 
Barley - 
Peas and beans 
Rye 6 
Flair = 
Sea-coal at Berwick 
per quarter - 0 
Oxen, carcase, from 0 
Horse-shoes, per 
huncred - | 
Nails for them, per 
thousand - O 
Milk goats, each = 
Keeper of them, per day 
A primer for the Prince of 
Wales, now 15 years 11 
months old 3 - 
Wheat, per quarter 
Peas - a 
Oats - a 
A bull - - 
A cow - - 
A fat sheep & 
Anewe - - 
A capon 2 
A cock or hen - 
Wheat at SESS 
Sunday 


eK — ee 
octet ct 
CO,000orrcrrrtbureveeraoee 


3 
1 
3 
1 
4 
0 
5 
8 
1 


co “ OR S wBOs 
oe 


t 


COO SC COS SOOO OSCSSCOSOSSOSOCSCSOSS 


0-0} 


oocooooecoec]o“ot 


OO 1 0-08 tO sy 0 


on 


iso) 


CWDwwWARAOORF BSB COO FRO 


OS ONDTARSHNOUG 


roto 


BR OOOO dt RO 


SSOSOSCOSOHAMMOW OPH 


i 


the 


_ 


e 


com o& eZ SsocoooseoOomOrFOnoOSoOoONO 


i) Preesosoace 


A.D. 
1317. 


= 


1351. 


&. 
Wheat on the WGesEEY) 
following - 


This year there was an early 
harvest, and wheat felltrom 4 

to - = 3 
And oats from = -3 
to -0 


. Keepers and porter “of Wood- 


stock Park, each, per day - 0 
Gardener (only one mentioned) 0 
By the statute of laborers, all 

workmen were obliged to 

serve for the same wages 
which had been usual in 
the ten years preceding; 
and to receive their wages, 
at the option of their em- 
ployers, either in money or 
in wheat; but this was 
never to be rated higher 
than 10d. a bushel. 
Weeders and hay-makers, per 

day - 3 - 0 
Mowers” - - 0 
Reapers in the first week’ of 

August, (2d. afterwards) - 0 


. For threshing wheat, rye, per 


1407. 


1425. 


. Bailiff - = 


quarter - - 
— barley, beans, peas, and 
oats - - = 


. A master free mason, per day 0 


Master carpenters, masons, 
tilers, thatchers, PESO) 
Ca = 

Inferior carpenters - - 0 

Their servants or boys - 0 


. Rent of a garden in the city 


of London, measuring 95 
by 92 ells, per ann. 


Chief labouring husbandman 
Carter and shepherd, each 
Cowherd - - 
Swineherd 
Plough-driver, at most 
Woman labourer - 
Dairy-woman 

All with clothing ‘and diet. 
Wheat, per quarter - 
Oats = - 


SQoocececo cocececoeso 


A cow - - 

A calf - - 

A plough - 

A dung-cart coraplete 

A pair of cart wheels 

Wages of a thresher, per day 

Wheat for making malts per 
quarter 

Wages of a stone-cutter, per 
day - 


tiler and his 2 servants 0 
sawyer xe 
ploughman - -0 


A quarter of an ox tosalt - 0 


a 


BOSCOSO F&F CWHOROCRANIH AANIMARHROOWD 


in some other places - 2 13 


oS. UBD 


oo So So oo 


ooo 


= 


_ 
Lhe PROF CO WNHWMmOownSs 


RIO POOM BO gq 


Cr ARTCC MOCSO RD 


Slaney on Rural Expenditure. 


A. D. ; #£, 8. a. 


1425. Russet cloth for the shepherd, 
per yard - -0 11 


1446x. Bailiff, perann. 1 3 
Chief hired carter 


and shepherd i 0 0 040 
Common farm 

servant - 015 0 0 3 4 
‘Woman servant 010 0 0 4 0 
Girl under 14 - 0 6 O 03 4 
Free mason and ; 

master carpen- For victuals. 


ter, perday - 0 
Tiler, slater, &c. 0 
Labourer - 0 
From Michaelmas 

they had each1d. 

less, 
A mower per day 0 
Reaper and carter 

each - -0 0 3 
Other labourers & 

women - 0 

1500. Wheat, per quarter - 
Peas = 
Timber hewn, per load 
A plough, with harness 
Wethers, young and old, Per 

hundred of 6 score 
A bullock - - 
An 0x - n 
Steers and heifers, average, 

each - - - 
A cow 3 zt 
A trotting gelding - -1 
A great trotting gelding - 10 
An ambling hobby - -1 
A feather bed and bolster - 1 
Pair of blankets - - 0 
A pair of flaxen SECS, 21 

yards - 

1508. A fat wether 

Alamb - 
Apig - 
A gosling - 
Acapon - 
Chickens, 30 for 
Cream, per gallon 
Milk, ditto 
Honey, ditto 
Charcoal, per quarter 

1514. Wages, with diet, 


coo 

to Co 
=) 
i=) 
_ 


So 
pe 
tha) tS 


Xo} 
wOPIwo cS OS 


O00 a 0 


1 
oo ee ococeoe Ss 6&6 
SIS 


ASSSHOSSRNS WOMOOMD 


— 
SCOP PEAPROOBRD COMDSOSSD ASSO BOO BIS 


Sat th 0 0 te an O 
Ce 


ocooocecoosoe 


of a bailiff in In For 
husbandry, per money. clothing 
annum = 168 05 0 


Chief hind, car- 

ter, and shep- ‘ 

herd alr 6 100 0 
Common servant 

ofhusbandry- 016 8 0 
Woman servant 010 0 O 
Servant under 14 

years) = = = O68) 20 


a Highest wages, with diet, by 23 Henzy 6 
c 
- + Highest wages in harvest. 


A.D. 
1514, Freemason, mas- 


In money. For clothing. 
0 ) 0) 


533, Beef, per Ib. 2 


'1557§. Wheat, per quarter 


ter carpenter, 
rough mason, 
bricklayer, ti- 
ler, plumber, 
glazier, carver, 
joiner, per day 
each, from Ea- 
stertoMichael- 


mas 006 90. 


During the rest 
of the year 
they had 1d. 
less; and if 
the employers 
furnished diet, 
hey deducted 


Mewes per day, ORO MG O 
Reaper and car- 

ter, other la- 

borers and wo- 

men, per day, 

in harvest -~ 00 #4 0 


1530. A herd boy in Scotland, with 


a shirt, pair of shoes, diet, 
&c. perannum - 


coocroooo 


Mutton - 

Beef at the highest, per cwt. 

Fat oxen, each 2 

Fat wethers, ditto - 

Fat calves - - 

A fat lamb 

Milk, genuine from the cow, 
three ale pints in summer, 
and two ale pints in winter, 
at Goodman’s Fields, near 
the Tower of London 


Beans and rye - 

Malt = = 

Peas - 

Wheaten loaf of 11 ounces 
||Wheat - - 

Malt - - 

Rye 

Wwhesten loaf of 56 ounces - 0 


coocowwnsd~yS 


{1610. Wheat and malt at Windsor, 


per quarter of nine bushels 1 
A bailiff, perann. - 
A good servant in husbandry 2 
A common servant aoe can 
mow - - 
A ploughman - - 1 
_A boy under 16 - -1 
A woman servant, who can 
bake, brew, and overlook 
others - 
Other women servants 16s. to” 
A girl under 16 - - 
A chief miller = - 


1 
0 
2 
Acommon miller - 1 


- 212 


183 


Moto D ROS to 


_ 
Las 


SCHWOANMNOSHLPSWS 


15 1 
10 


o°oS0 SOO FROCHDOOORS 


ouVusc 


6 
0 
14 
6 
11 


wnoooce 


$~ This year it was enacted, that butchers 

should sell their meat by weight. 
4 Before harvest, in London. 
|| After harvest. 7 ' 


But even after the quantity of silver, contained at various 
periods in coin that all along retains the same denomination, 
is accurately fixed, there is another difficulty ; this arises from 
the insufficient data, for the construction of a table by which 
all changes in the value of money should be measured. 
Mr. George Shuckburgh constructed such a table: but Mr. 
Hallam : observes, ‘ It is strangely incompatible with every 


oO 


184 _Slaney on Rural Uxpenditure, 


result, to which my own reading has led me. It is the party 
attempt of a man accustomed to different studies; and one 
can neither pardon the presumption of obtruding such a 
slovenly performance on a subject where the utmost diligence 
was required, nor the affectation with which he apologizes 
for ‘descending from the dignity of philosophy.’ (Hallam 
vol. ii. p. 17. note, 4to edit.) This is plain and strong censure ; 
hut, as far as our reading goes, it is by no means unmerited. 

Mr. Hallam remarks that within these few years “a very 
laudable industry has been shown by antiquaries, in the pub-~ 
lication of account-books belonging to private persons, 
registers of expences in current returns of markets, valuations 
of “goods, tavern bills, and in short every document, however 
trifling itself, by which this important subject can be 
illustrated.” 

In applying such a table to an illustrative comparison of 
the condition of the labourers, and of other classes, at different 
periods, we ought to attend to one special caution. If we 
estimate the changes in the value of money by its command 
over the few articles required by the labourer, we shall find 
its actual depreciation much greater than they would prove 
to be if estimated by its command over the various articles 
purchased by those in a higher rank of life. A rise of 50 
per cent in corn and meal is of comparatively little con- 
sequence to a man who spends only one tenth of his income 
on these articles; whereas it is of infinite moment to the 
labourer, three fourths of whose wages are laid out on them. 
The same iable, therefore, when applied to the expenditure 
of the rich, may point out a depreciation in the real value of 
money, only to the amount of 15 or 20 per cent; whereas, 
when applied to the expenditure of the poor, it may prove a 
depreciation of 50, 60, or 70 per cent. 

The following is the result of Mr. Hallam’s “ endeavour 
at a sort of approximation of the value of money for the 
thirteenth and fifteenth centuries. In the reigns of Henry III. 
and Edward IJ., previously to the first debasement of the 
coin by the latter in 1301, the ordinary price of a quarter 
of wheat appears to have been about four shillings, and 
that of barley and oats in proportion. A sheep was rather sold 
high at a shilling, and an ox might be reckoned at ten or 
twelve. The value of cattle, is of course dependant upon 
their breed and condition, and we have unluckily no early 
account of butchers’ meat; but we can hardly take a less 
multiple than about thirty for animal food, and eighteen or 
twenty for corn, in order to bring the prices combining the 


Slaney on Rural Expenditure. 185 


two; and setting the comparative dearness of cloth against the 
cheapness of fuel, and many other articles, we may perhaps 
consider any given sum under Henry III. and Edward I. 
as equivalent, in general command over commodities, to about 
twenty-four or twenty five-times that nominal value at present. 
Under Henry VI. the coin had lost one third of its weight in 
silver, which caused a proportional increase of money prices 5 
but so far as I can perceive, there had been no diminution in 
the value of the metal. Bythe statute 15 Hen. VI. c. 2. the 
price up to which wheat might be exported is fixed at 6s. 8d. ; 
a point, no doubt, above the average; and the private docu- 
ments of that period, which are sufficiently numerous, lead 
to a similar result. Sixteen will be a fair multiple when we 
would bring the general value of money in this reign to our 
present standard. 

If the acts of parliament that regulate the wages in the 
fourteenth and fifteenth centuries are considered with refer- 
ence to the value of money at these periods, we shall gain 
farther insight into the condition of the agricultural labourers 
then. The statute of labourers in 1350 fixes the wages of 
reapers during harvest at 3d. a day without diet, equal to 4s. 
at present; that of the 23 Hen. VI. c.12.,in 1444, fixes 
the reapers’ wages at 5d., and those of common workmen 
in building at 34d, equal to 6s. 8d. and 4s. 8d. at present; that 
of the 11 Hen. 7. c. 22., in 1496, leaves the wages of labourers 
at harvest as before, but rather increases those of ordinary 
workmen. The yearly wages of a chief hind or shepherd, 
by the act of 1444, were 1/.4s. equal to about 20/.; those of 
a common servant in husbandry 18s. 4d., with meat and 
drink. From a bailiff’s account of expences in 1387, published 
in the Archzologia, it appears that a ploughman had 6d. a 
week, and 5s. a year, with an allowance of diet, which seems 
to have been pottage. These wages are about equivalent to 
15s. a week in present value. — 

How seldom are the agricultural labourers of our times able 
to purchase meat for dinner: this was not the case in the 
middle of the fifteenth century. Sir John Fortescue, who 
lived then, remarks, that the English lived far more upon an 
animal diet, than their rivals the French; and Harrison 
informs us, that the Spaniards who came to England in 
Queen Mary’s days observed, “these English have their 
houses made of sticks and dirt, but they fare commonly so 
well as the King.” 

We think we have offered a sufficient number of facts 
to make out our first position regarding the condition of 
the agricultural labourers, — that their wages at present give 

o 3 


186 Transactions of the Prussian 


them tne command ofa less quantity of the necessaries of life, 
and consequently, that they are much inferior in ability to 
support their families to their ancestors three or four centuries 
ago, and to what they were at the commencement of the 
reion of George III. 

In our next paper we shall endeavour to prove our other 
positions respecting their condition ; — that they obtain a less 
proportion of the produce of their labour; — that they are 
worse off, compared with manfacturing labourers, than they were 
formerly : — and that, while rents, and the value of land, have 
been increasing, and the country and all other classes improv- 
ing, their condition has been retrograding 

(To be continued.) 


Art. V. Verhandlungen des Vereins zur Beforderung des 
Gartenbaues, &c.; Transactions of the Society for the Promotion 
of Gardening in Prussia. Berlin: 1824. Parts 1. and 2. 4to. 


Tue Prussian Horticultural Society, was established in 1822, 
in consequence of an order from the king; their first public 
meeting was in December that year; and at their third 
sitting, in March 1823, some papers were read. From that 
time to August 1824, they found matter enough to publish 
sixty articles, on a great variety of subjects, the authors of 
which are partly royal and commercial! gardeners, and partly 
amateurs. We pass over several introductory papers ex- 
planatory of the origin of this society, to 


No. 10. Observations on forcing the Turkish Ranunculus. By 
Mr. P. F. Bouché, Commercial Gardener at Berlin. : 

To grow the ranunculus well in Prussia, it is planted on a 
slight hot-bed in autumn, and protected through the winter by 
a frame; the sashes of which are removed when the plants are 
in flower. To force the ranunculus, tubers which have been kept 
three or four months, or even a year over the season of plant- 
ing, are chosen, as being more easily excited than those which 
have been only the usual time out of the soil. They are 
planted in pots, about the beginning of August; and by 
bringing these into the green-house at different periods, a 
bloom is kept up from October to February. 


11. On the Culture of the Torch-Thistle. By Mr. P. F. Bouché, 
Commercial Gardener in Berlin. 


There is scarcely any thing in this paper that is not 
familiar to the English gardener. Cactus hexagonus and tetra- 


Horticultural Society. 187 


gonus, with some other species, will not flower well if kept all 
the year in the hot-house ; but if placed in the open air in 
summer, they grow slower, but flower much more freely. 
In general, he observes, the cactus genus require to be kept 
very near the light, otherwise they would grow, but never pro- 
duce blossoms. He adverts to their natural situation, where 
they are fully exposed to the sun, on rocks or burning sands, 
never shaded by trees, and seldom visited by showers. 


12. On the Culture of the Rhododendra. By Mr. L. Mathieu, 
Commercial Gardener in Berlin. - 


_The common nursery culture of this genus is given, with 
directions to protect the plants through the winter by coverings 
of boards, or litter. 


13. On ringing of Fruit Trees. By Mr. R. Werthmeister. 


Mr. W. made rings round the branches of several apple, 
pear, plum, peach, apricot, and walnut trees, and some grape 
vines, with a view to enlarging the size and quantity of the 
fruit, and promoting its ripening. He succeeded in these 
respects, and found some of the fruits, especially of the green 
gage plum, a third part larger ; and he says, from eight to even 
twenty days earlier, than on the other branches of the same 
trees, which he didnot ring. He also tried the operation on 
some raspberry plants, but he found no effect produced in the 
fruit, though the young shoots lost their leaves sooner. 


14. Is composed of extracts from what passed at the Fourth 
Meeting of the Society, on the 6th of April 1823, and which 
are only of local interest. 


15. On the cheapest and most durable Mode of ticketing Plants, 
whether in the Open Air or in Glass-Houses. By Mr, Dern of 
Scarbriick. 


16. Observations on the above. By Mr. Otto, Inspector of the 
Botanic Garden at Berlin. 


Mr. Dern, after trying tin, wooden, and slate labels, at 
last had them made of zinc, which oxidizes very little in the 
open air, and can be written on or painted at pleasure. He 
preferred giving them a coat of paint, and writing the name 
with a pen in red colour ground in turpentine. Mr. Otto 
decidedly prefers the zinc labels, and next to them, those of 
earthenware; which last, however, are too expensive for 
general purposes. The handsomest, he considers, to be 
earthenware, with the name written under the glazing. 

o 4 


188 Prussian Horticultural Society. 


17. On shortening the T ap-roots of Plants, By Mr. F. Masseli 
of Militsch. 

18. Anonymous Remarks on the foregoing Treatise. 

19. Opinion of the Committee on the foregoing Treatise, and Remarks. 

20. Anonymous Remarks on the Opinion of the Committee. 


21. Illustration of the foregoing Anonymous Remarks. ie Mr. 
Lenné. 


Mr. Masseli has found that shortening the tap-roots of 
stocks for fruit-trees, a practice which would seem to be new 
about Berlin, increased the production of lateral fibres, and, as 
he said, made the stock grow faster and stronger. He thinks 
the same practice may be advantageously applied to young 
forest-trees, on which the anonymous remarker observes, 
that it has long been the practice in that department of 
gardening; and quotes, in proof, from the works of the 
forresters Burgsdorff and Hartig. ‘These authors very pro- 
perly observe, that in transplanting trees, it is impossible to 
avoid breaking the tap-root, if the tree is five or six feet 
high ; and that, therefore, it becomes advantageous to move 
the tree two or three times in the nursery, shortening every 
time the perpendicular roots. The committee, after a good 
deal of discussion, come to the conclusion “ that shortening 
the tap-root is a necessary evil, which should only be allowed 
under certain circumstances ; that, therefore, it is absolutely 
improper with young plants, that are transplanted at once 
to the spot where they are finally to remain; with some 
others, however, it is necessary, as a preparation for their 
future transplantation, and in that case’ gardeners should 
proceed with more care than is generally employed.” ‘This 
last remark is an allusion to what was stated by one of the 
writers, that in forest-tree nurseries the seedling plants were 
taken in large handfuls, and their tap-roots chopped off with 
an axe, bv a Aiahouner who did not know what he was doing. 


22. Experimental Observations on the Culture of the Bletia Tan- 
kervillee. By Mr. Otto, Inspector of the Botanic Garden in 
Berlin. 

The soil he recommends is one part of leaf-mould, one of 
peat-earth, and one of river-sand; the pots should be 
plunged ; and very little water given when the roots are not 
in a growing state. The plant, Mr. Otto considers as an 
epiphyte. 


23. On the Culture of the Ferraria Pavonia. By Mr. 1. Mathieu. 


This plant, about Berlin, is grown in pots; but there is 
nothing new to us, on this side of the water, in Mr. Mathieu’s 


Hortecultural Tour by M. Soulange Boudin. 189 


account of its culture. Indeed, what Mr. Sweet has said 
on the culture of bulbs and epiphites, in the last edition of 
his Botanical Cultivator, may be considered as the atimatum 
on this subject, for the British gardener. 


24. On the Culture and Use of the Sea or Shore-Cale, Crambe 
Maritima. By Mr. Brash, Royal Gardener at Bellevue ; with 
an Appendix, by Mr. Voss, Royal Gardener at Sans-Souci. 


This vegetable is cultivated in the open garden, in the same 
way as in Britain, and also forced by covering with pots of 
earthen-ware, or frames of boards, surrounded by fresh 
horse-dung. ‘The appendix consists chiefly of extracts from 
the pamphlet of Curtis on Crambe. 

(To be continued.) 


Art. VI. Récit d'une Excursion Horticulturale faite a Londres, 
dans le mois d’ Avril, 1824, par M. Soulange Boudin, Membre de 
la Société Linnéenne de Paris, et de la Société d’Encouragement 
pour l’Industrie Nationale, &c. &c. (Extrait des Annales de 
lAgriculture Francoise, 2d série, tome xxviii.) 


M. SoutancE Bouprn is not exactly a nurseryman, but one 
of those gentlemen or proprietor cultivators, common on the 
continent, who are fond of gardening, keep up a collection of 
plants, and propagate them for sale with a view of paying the 
expences of the establishment. We have no parallel de- 
scription of cultivators in this country, unless we except a 
number of the merchants of Liverpool, who have villas in the 
vicinity, and send their extra fruit and vegetables to market. 
There are few descriptions of books more entertaining to the 
horticulturist than Mr. S. Boudin’s pamphlet; and we only 
wish it had embraced a more extensive account of the sub- 
urban gardens of the metropolis; but our author only visited 
the Horticultural Society’s Garden, and a few of the principal 
nurseries, and. these only with the eye of a cultivator, or 
rather nurseryman. 

He sets out by expressing his warm approbation of the 
extreme neatness, cleanliness, and order, displayed in English 
hot-houses in general ; and admires our plan of setting plants 
on open stages, elevated so as to bring them near the glass; a 
practice not common in France, where they are for the most 
part seton the level floor. In Lee’s nursery, he was much struck 

~ with the heaths, and seems to consider the collection there as 
the best in the neighbourhood*of London, and in the most 


190 Horticultural Tour by M. Soulange Boudin. 


vigorous growth. ‘Their healthy appearance he says, is sup: 
posed to be owing to the practice of watering them with water 
in which the leaves and stalks of common -heath have been 
steeped. ‘This, we believe, has no foundation in fact; though 
Mr. Knight, the P. H.S., in a paper in the Horticultural 
Transactions has suggested the idea of forming a liquid manure 
for heaths, or other rare plants, by the maceration of the leaves 
of their own, or of nearly allied species. 

In Mr. Knight, the nurseryman’s hot-houses, he saw the 
greatest number ofseedling camellias ; and 
he describes a mode which that cultivator 
tried, but without success, to accelerate 
the period of their blossoming. This 
was as fellows: when the plant had at- 
tained the height of 18 or 20 inches, and 
consisted of one shoot, it was bent so as 
to form a circle, and inarched to itself. 
(fig. 33.) Mr. Knight’s object was to 
cause the sap to follow this course, and 
by that means promote its maturation 
for producing flowers; but it does not 
appear that any manipulation of this sort 
has much or any effect. 

The president of the Horticultural a 
ciety thinks even ringing will fall short of 
this desired object ; though the experience 
of Mr. Hempel, the German pomologist, led him to a different 
conclusion. It is certain, however, that the quickest way yet 
known of inducing blossom in any seedling plant of the ligne- 
ous kind is to take a bud or graft from it, and insert it in the 
extremity of a bearing branch of a tree of the same species, as 
the president does in the case of seedling peach trees. (Gard. 
Mag. No. 1. p.70.) Much depends also on the full exposure of 
the “foliage to the light: seedling camellias kept in a house 
exposed “to the north, or kept in any house several feet from 
the glass, will not come to a state of puberty or maturation 
for flowering, as when kept within a few inches of the glass. 

M.S. Boudin admires, as every man must, the extensive and 
well-regulated establishment of Messrs. Loddiges, and is in 
raptures with their lofty palm-house, its fine” specimens of 
plantains, palms, tropical liliaceae and epiphytes. He notices 
their extensive steam apparatus, their beautiful contrivance 
for imitating rain, their fine collection of camellias, and 
their systematic mode, whether with the hardy or house 
collections, of keeping the plants of each genus and species 
by itself. So extensive a concern, indeed, could never be 


Horticultural Tour by M. Soulange Boudin. 191 


managed with so tew hands as it is, without this judicious 
arrangement. 

In noticing Mr. Mackay’s nursery, at Clapton, he makes no 
mention ofthe collection of heaths there, which is, we believe 
more extensive than that of Mr.Lee, and exceeded only by that 
of Messrs. Loddiges. At Messrs. Brooks, of Balls Pond, he 
saw those rare plants, Azalea variegata and purpurea; and at 
the Mary-le-Bone nursery, he saw Andromeda floribunda, for 
which Mr. Jenkins asked him “ un prix enorme.” Some years 
ago the proprietor asked 30 guineas for this plant; but having 
now succeeded in propagating it, he asks from 10 to 15 
guineas. At the Fulham nursery M. S. Boudin saw several 
rare plants, among others the original stock plant of what is 
commonly called Camellia axillaris, now considered as belonging 
to a different genus, which he purchased. At Mr. Colvill’s, 
the new conservatory and plant-stove rivetted his attention, 
not more on account of the variety of rare plants which they 
contain, than the elegance of the design of the houses, and the 
substantial and beautiful manner in which the flues, shelves, 
paths, trellises, &c. are executed. He is well acquainted 
with the publications of Mr. Sweet, and pays a just com- 
pliment to his science as a botanist, and skilias a cultivator. 

But the greatest share of our author’s time and attention was 
bestowed on the Horticultural Society’s Garden. With every 
thing there he is highly gratified, and more especially with the 
hot-houses, their construction, the interesting collection they 
contain, and the high order and keeping maintained in them. 
He notices the practice, found within these few years to be so 
conducive to the health and growth of plants in hot-houses, 
of keeping the air moist in proportion as it is heated; and 
for this purpose, the necessity of watering the flues and 
paths of the house copiously, and several times a day; and 
even inundating the passages every two or three hours in 
very hot days. He adverts to the excellent paper of Mr. Daniel, 
relating to this subject, in the Society’s Transactions. (Vol. iv. 
part 1.) When about to return to France, M.S. Boudin 
received a present of that beautiful plant the Primula sinensis, 
which, ina subsequent publication, he tells us he succeeded in 
propagating by cuttings; a thing not easily done, because, 
among other reasons, the plant produces very little that can 
be cut off for that purpose. Finally he expresses his gratitude 
to Mr. Sabine, and, in common with most foreigners who 
visit the Chiswick garden, pays a tribute to the intelligence 
and amiability of Mr. Lindley, the garden secretary, whose 
botanical acquirements are not of less value to foreign visitants, 
than his knowledge of modern languages ; and who on this, as 


192 Catalogue of Works 


well as on other accounts, contributes to the dignity and 
ornament of this part of the great horticultural establishment. 


Art. VII. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, 
&c. published since November last, with some account of those 
considered the most interesting. 


BRITISH. 


Trotter, Alexander, Esq. of Dreghorn, near Edinburgh: Method of 

Book-keeping. Edinburgh, 8vo. 

“The method of book-keeping which is here explained, has been, and 
continues to be, that by which Mr. Trotter’s books are actually kept; the 
printer’s copy for this publication having been little else than a transcript 
trom these very books.” The editor of the Farmer’s Magazine states that 
he has seen these original books, which, he says, “ are kept, in fact, not by 
Mr. Trotter himself, but by his agronome, Robert Guthrie, who seems to be 
quite as much master of the system as his employer; and with few exceptions, 
all the entries are in the hand-writing of this person or his daughter, the 
latter indeed being the principal book-keeper ; and all these, the book of 
yearly and day-labour, the journal and cash-book in one, and, the ledger, 
are not only kept with great neatness and accuracy, but, what, we confess, 
appeared at first quite incredible,—all the entries are made at by-hours, after 
the labours of the day. Our scepticism on this point was the more 
excusable, when it is known that the books we allude to are not confined, 
like the published book, to the business of a single farm, but embrace all the 
Dreghorn estate, including the house, garden, and pleasure grounds. The 
fact is nevertheless certain. Let no one therefore be alarmed at the 
demand upon his time which would be made by adopting this method. 
(Farm. Mag. Vol. xxvi. p. 474.) 


Botanical Sketches. London, 8vo. Old plates of the Linnean classes, with 
a new title. 


Kirby, W. M.A., F.R.& LS. Rector of Barham; and William Spence, Esq. 
F.L.S. An Introduction to Entomology ; or, Elements of the Natural 
History of Insects. London. Vols. 5 & 4. 

This interesting and valuable work being now completed, will soon find 
its way into every gentleman’s library, and as it contains much instructive 
matter respecting the insects of gardens, we would advise every reading - 
gardener to ask the loan of it from his master, and to peruse it with care. 
When we can find room, we shall make appropriate extracts. 


Dacre, The Rev.B. A.L.S. Testimonies in Favour of Salt as Manure, and a 
Condiment for Horse, Cow, and Sheep, &¢. London, 8vo. 


Finlayson, John, of Kaims, Muirkirk, Inventor and Patentee of the Self- 
cleaning Ploughs and Harrows: The British Farmer; or, a Series of 
Scientific and Practical Essays on ‘Agriculture; to which is added the 
Ploughman’s Guide. London. 8vo. 7 copper-plates. 

The first chapter of this work, treats of the patent Self-cleaning Plough, 
and the second of the Art of Ploughing, or the Ploughman’s Guide. The 
purpose of both is to describe and recommend the different ploughs of the 
author’s invention. Chap. 5. treats of putrescent manures, and enters into 
the details of fermenting peat moss, by Lord Meadowbank’s method; and 
of improving moss, by the application of lime, burning, &c. Indeed the 
subject of moss and muirlands occupies almost the whole of this book; the 
implements which its author has invented being more especially adapted for 
working moors, heaths, and rough lands. Chap. 4. treats on furrow trench- 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 193 


ing; and chap, 5. which in bulk includes about half the volume, is on the 
cultivation of moss. An Appendix contains testimonies in favour of the 
utility of the new implements, which are, the Imperial Self-cleaning Plough ; 
the Heath Self-cleaning Plough: the Kentish Skeleton Self-cleaning 
Plough ; the improved Scotch Plough, which contains a rod from the sheath 
of the plough to the muzzle, for being put on when the plough is wrought 
by both horses walking ina line in the furrow. The Imperial Self-cleaning 
Harrow is next described ; then the Self-cleaning Drill Harrow; and lastly, 
the new Spring Weighing Machines. All these implements have been very 
much approved of in different parts of Scotland; but being chiefly 
calculated for land in an imperfect state of cultivation, or where very 
rough stubbles are left, it may be doubted if they will come into general use. 


Sweet, Mr. Robert, ¥.L.S. The British Warblers; or, Account of the 
Genus Sylvia; in one Fasciculus ; illustrated by Six beautifully coloured 
Figures, taken from living Specimens iu the Author’s Collection ; with 
Directions for theirTreatment according tothe Author’s Method; in which 
is explained, how the interesting and fine Singing Birds belonging to this 
Genus may be managed, and kept in as,good health as any common Birds 
whatever. London. 8vo. Plates. 


“ The British species belonging to this interesting genus are chiefly birds 
of passage, visiting this country in spring, and leaymg it again in autumn. 
Several of them are deservedly esteemed as the finest songsters of all the 
feathered race: the nightingale, in particular, has the sweetest and 
most pleasing note of any kind at present known. It has been generally 
supposed that they are very difficult to preserve in confinement ; but the 
author of this work has succeeded well in preserving the greater part of the 
most interesting species through several winters in perfect health, and mast 
of them are in full song all the winter.” 

“They will succeed very well in a warm room in winter, or, if convenient, 
any part of a hot-house or warm conservatory would suit them admirably ; 
but they require a little fresh air when the weather is mild; they may be 
preserved in cages, either separately, or several together; or in a small 
aviary, where all the species might be intermixed. ‘The temperature of the 
room where they are, ought never to be much below temperate, though 
several of the species do not mind aslight frost; the sorts that the author 
has found to suffer most from cold, are S. rubetra (the Whinchat), and 
S. pheenicurus (the Redstart) ; the Nightingale (SS. /uscinia) is not near so 
tender as these; S. cinerea, S. sylviella, and S. atricapilla, scarcely seem to 
mind the cold at all.” : 

We recommend this work to our horticultural readers, because we think 
singing birds of different species, native as well as exotic, form a great 
addition to the flower garden, and botanic hot-houses. In the former we 
would distribute different sorts in cages in the day time, taking them in at 
night ; in the latter we would hang up cages also; for the birds when left to 
tly about, as in the hot-houses at Scheenbriinn, are apt to dirty the leaves 
of the plants, besides requiring certain arrangements of wire-work to prevent 
their escape. 


Guilding, The Rev. L. B.A. F.L.S., &c. An Account ofthe Botanic Garden 
of St. Vincent. Glasgow. 4to. 4 plates. 


This garden is stated to owe its origin to the Society of Arts, and to have 
been commenced under Governor General Melville, 1765. It consisted at 
first of twenty acres, but was afterwards increased to thirty-nine and a half. 
Dr. George Young, Surgeon to the Forces, the principal medical officer 
stationed in the island, was first intrusted with the charge of the ground, 
which he held for many years. In 1774 the doctor made a report of his 
progress to the Society of Arts, which they were pleased to reward with a 
present of fitty guineas. In the troubled times which succeeded, the 


194 Catalogue of Works. 


garden was much. neglected and injured, but was again restored in 1785, 
and somewhat increased, by Alexander Anderson, Esq., Surgeon, who was 
shortly afterwards appointed its superintendent. 

At this period the institution was taken under the protection of Govern- 
ment, who supported it with great liberality tillit was presented to the 
colony in 1822. In 1792 it was increased, but it suffered in some degree 
during our contest with the French and Caribs. Mr. Anderson with great 
pains collected all the most remarkable of the native plants, and in his 
excursions to other islands, obtained many curious species. 

About 1787, the clove, and several varieties of cimnamon, were introduced 
from the French islands, to which they had been brought by their ships 
from Asia. ‘Ihe clove, shortly after this period, was cultivated zealously in 
Dominique. In Jamaica the cimmamon was planted on a large scale in 
many parts of that extensive colony. 

Mr. Anderson, in 1791, sailed to Guiana in search of valuable plants, 
where his zeal was amply rewarded. 

Every exertion was made, as well by private individuals as by the 
authorities in England, to render His Majesty’s Botanic Garden of St. 
Vincent the source from which valuable plants might be spread over the 
adjacent islands. Trials were made to introduce plantations of Cactus 
coccinellifera and to propagate the cochineal insect. Many valuable seeds 
from Asia were sent here by the Board of Trade. At a subseqent period 
others were forwarded by the Board of Agriculture. A considerable number 
were procured from correspondents in North America, almost all of which 
are now flourishing and dispersed over our colonies. 

His Majesty was pleased in 1790, to send a ship to the South Seas to 
procure for it the bread-fruit, Artocarpus incisa, and every other valuable 
tree that could be obtained. The lamentable termination of this first 
voyage is known to every one; but, not discouraged by the fate of the first, 
the king determined to fit out a second ship of discovery, and shortly after- 
wards Captain Bligh set sail in the Providence, and in January 1793, 
landed about 530 plants on the shores of St. Vincent. 

In 1798, a catalogue was made of all the plants within the garden, 
conveniently arranged ; and another was published by the Society of Arts 
in the 25th volume of their transactions. 4, 

Mr. Lockhead, who afterwards succeéued Dr. Anderson, had obtained 
from Cayenne several nutmegs. ‘These in 1809 were introduced by Captain 
Dix of the Cygnet. The trees have borne well for many years. 

Worn out with toil, the venerable Anderson began to decline, and in 
July 1811, resigned the garden to his estimable friend and fellow-labourer 
William Lockhead, Esq. M.W.S. Edinburgh. 

On the 8th September, 1811, the virtuous Anderson was numbered with 
the dead. ‘To this industrious and respectable botanist the garden owes its 
prosperity. Since his death it has in some degree declined. The greater 
part of his useful life was diligently employed, not only in the scientific 
examination and cultivation of the stores committed to his care, but also 
enriching the establishment with every thing either useful or curious. 

Mr. Lockhead died in 1815, and was succeeded by Mr. George Caley, and 
his assistant Mr. M‘Crae. The former gentleman had spent many years of 
his life in the forests of Australasia, and had brought home an abundant 
harvest from a field in which Brown and other celebrated travellers had 
already gleaned. His animals were purchased by the Linnean Society, 
and are placed in the museum of that learned body. 

In 1821, the Government determined to give up the garden ; wearied as 
is supposed, with the complaints that were made, and with the annual 
expence, which exceeded 700/. 

The plates which accompany this work consist of views so badly got up 
as to be of little use in conveying the character of the scenery, and a ground 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 195 


plan which shows nothing of the interior arrangement of the garden. In 

short, more useless or less ornamental engravings were never appended to 

any work. 

Cobbet, William, Esq. of Kensington, the celebrated Political Writer ; 
Author of the American Gardener, &c.: The Woodlands, or, a Treatise 
on Planting ; describing the Trees, &c. &c. London. svo. No. 1. 

This work proceeds on the supposition that the reader is ignorant of the 
practical details of preparing ground for planting, and of all the subsequent 
operations of sowing, rearing, &c. In so far as it goes, the operations are 
accurately described, and in a vigorous style ; and though the work will be of 
most use to the novice, it may yet be read with profit by the practical planter. 


Johns, William, M.D. formerly a Practitioner in Calcutta, now resident in 
Manchester. Practical Botany; an improved Arrangement of the 
Generic Characters of British Plants; with a familiar Introduction to the 
Linnean System. London. Longman & Co. 1826. 12mo. pp.156. 

A neat little work, intended to facilitate the acquisition of a knowledge 
of the genera of British plants, to which it will probably be found an 
useful guide. It commences with a brief introduction to the study of 
botany, in which the first rudiments of the science are explained in familiar 
terms, and illustrated by figures. The characters of the genera are ar- 
ranged ina tabular form, so that a comparative view is offered of the most 
important distinctions, by which they are divided. For the characters of 
the genera of grasses, the author states, that he is indebted to the assist- 
ance of Sir James Smith. The foot of each page is occupied by such 
brief remarks upon the genera as are independent of their distinctive 
characters. 

It is to be regretted, that the author has not avoided certain errors of 
expression, which, although formerly introduced into respectable works, 
are now abandoned as unphilosophical and incorrect. As, for example, 
calling the grain of grasses, umbelliferze, &c.; seed, instead of pericarpium ; 
the involucrum of syngenesious plants common calyx; or describing the 
corolla of a papilionaceous plant to consist of four instead of jive petals. 
We must also remark, that the references to the figures in illustration of 
the terms used in botany, are not sufficiently accurate. Thus, in plate ii. 
it does not appear whether the term involucre is applied to a particular 
form of inflorescence, or of bractez ; it would also seem that the annulus of 
an Agaric, tab. 2. fig. 6. is mistaken for its volva. 

The author announces his intention of preparing, in continuation of this 
work, a similar publication upon the species of British plants. We hope 
that in that work such errors as the above will be avoided. 


FRANCE. 

Nicolas Douette-Richardot, et rédige par Richardot, l’ainé, Juge de Paix 4 
Verry, Département de la Marne: De la Pratique de 1l’Agriculture ; 
ou Recueil, &c. 1 vol. 8vo. Paris. 

This work is described by Lachevardiére, who has given an analysis of it, 
as one of the most curious and useful which has ever been published on the 
art of agriculture. It is not so much a compilation from other writers, as a 
relation of what has been effected, either directly or indirectly, by the author 
himself. The work is divided into three parts: the first contains the agricul- 
tural life of the author; the second the detail of his practices, and the ex 
pence he incurred ; and the third displays his system of management, and 
contains a challenge to whoever will accept of it, to come forward and dis- 
pute the excellence of his plans. The department of the Haute-Marne is 
the principal scene of his operations. There he drained and cultivated 
six marshes, united eighty springs, and applied the water to the irri- 
gation. of an immense tract. He next directed his attention to the 


196 Catalogue of Works 


mountains, and, it is said, cultivated ten of them. All this he did at a 
comparatively moderate expence, by employing the labourers in the 
winter season, when they could find little else todo. Several chapters 
of the work are devoted to the raising of trees, and the management 
of woodlands; and the Lombardy poplar and Acacia are strongly re- 
commended. All the different species of grains, lecumes, and other 
agricultural vegetables are successively treated of; and in the manage- 
ment of forests he strongly recommends the coupe entre deux terres, 
(cutting about a foot under the surface) as decidedly the best mode for 
underwood. The author refers to a great variety of correspondents in 
Europe, and president Jefferson in America. From Buonaparte he re- 
ceived a present of 1200 francs for the usefulness of his services. 

Baudrillart, M. Traité Général des Eaux et Foréts, Chasses et Péches, &c. 

with numerous plates. Paris. 4to. 


Daniel, A. Pratique des Cours d’Kau, &c. Paris, 8vo. 


Mathieu de Dombasle, C.1.A. Director of the Agricultural Establishment 
of Roville : Annales Agricoles de Roville. Paris. 8vo. in numbers, No. 2. 


Among other articles, this number contains a translation of the treatise 
on the culture of wheat, by Robert Brown, Esquire, formerly of Markle 
near Haddington, and conductor of the Farmer’s Magazine. The trans- 
lator isa pupil of the Roville establishment. 


Soulange Bodin, M. Fellow of the Linnzan Society of Paris, Author of some 
Tracts on Horticulture, and Proprietor of the Nursery Garden at Fro- 
mont, near Paris: Catalogue des Végétaux de Pleine Terre, dOrangerie, 
et de Serres du Jardin de Fromont, &c. pour 1826. Paris, 4to. 

The species and varieties in this catalogue amount to 1400, reckoning 
varieties of certain flowers, as pzeonies, chrysanthemums, &c. ; but exclu- 
sive of fruit-trees or culinary vegetables. 


GERMANY. 


Weidenkeller. Archiv fiir Pferdekenntniss, &c.; or, Archives for the Know- 
ledge of Horses, and other Domestic Animals. 8vo. 

Leuchs Char. Volstiindige Anleitung zur Mastung der Thiere, &c. A 
complete Course of Instructionon the Art of Fattening Animals; or, a 
Theory of Fattening applied to the Domestic Quadrupeds which serve as 
Food to Man; also to Poultry, to Fish, to Crabs, to Frogs, to Turtles, to 
Oysters, and to Snails, Nuremb. 8vo. 


This work was crowned (as the French phrase is) by the Royal Society 
of Sciences of Gottingen. The fundamental principle of the art of fatten- 
ing is said, by Mr. Leuchs, to consist in augmenting ‘the physical powers 
of the animal, and subduing those of instinct. From the character given 
of this work in the Bulletin Universel, it would seem well to merit trans- 
ation. 

Iraty, Spain, Portucar, &c. 
Atti del Real Istituto d@ Incoraggiamento, 5c. di Napoli. Tom.i. 

In this work a short account is given of the cultivation about Torre 
del Grecco, which appears to consist chiefly of grapes and cotton. The grapes 
are raised for the press, and the principal wine produced is Lachryma 
Christi. Some olives are grown; and in a few places where the Manna 
ash grows wild, it is tapped for the juice. There is also in this volume 
a paper on the woad, and another on the saffron. 

Acerbi, G. Delle Viti Italiane; or, Materials for the Classification and 

Specific Character of the Vines of Italy. Milan, svo. 

Savi, M. Gaitano, Professor of Botany at Florence. Plantes Fourragéres 

de la Toscane. Flor. 8vo. and Antolog. Giorn. Oct. 1825. p. 158. 

In speaking ‘of the leguminous plants cultivated in Tuscany, great 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 1S) 


complaint is made of the Cuscuta Europea, which it is supposed cannot 
be destroyed by any methods so effectually as by paring and burning 
the surface, thus destroying at once both the lucerne and the seeds of 
the parasite. The two best grasses for water meadows are found to be 
the Avena elatior and Poa pratensis ; for all ordinary purposes the Lolium 
perenne is as much valued in Tuscany as in England. From what is 
said of fiorin grass, it appears to abound in the country; but not to 
have been subjected to cultivation, The wild carrot is said to increase 
the milk of cows and sheep, and to improve its: flavour. The Guinea 
grass, the Panicum maximum, has been proposed to be introduced from 
the West Indies, but M. Savi considers it better to cultivate to a higher 
degree of perfection'some of those herbage plants which are indigenous; 
—the number of these amount to 519 species. 


HoLuanpD AND THE NETHERLANDS. 


Hulthem, M. Van. President. Discours prononcé 4 la Distribution Solem- 
nelle des Prix de la Soc. Royale d’Agriculture et de Botanique de Gand, 
le 29 Juin, 1825. Gand, 8vo. 


Bailey, William, Civil Engineer, London: Traité de Emploi de la Vapeur 
our les Serres Chaudes, &c. Couronné par la Soc. des Science. 4 Har- 

eae Trans. Nat. &c. Harleim, vol. xii. p. 199. 

Mr. Bailey had erected a curvilinear hothouse for M. Caters-de-Wolt, 
near Antwerp, (fig. 55. p. 201.) which excited a great deal of attention in 
that country, and it appears he has equally distinguished himself by this 
essay on heating by steam. 

SWEDEN. 


Kongl. Svenska Landtbriiks Academiens Annaler; or, Annals of the Royal 
Academy of Agriculture of Sweden. Yearg. Part 1st. 8vo. 


AMERICA. 


Massachusetts Agricultural Repository and Journal. 7 vols 4to. 

This work contains a variety of useful papers, among whica we may 
enumerate, Remarks on the Stable Management of Horses, in vol. vi. ; 
on the Weeds of Arable Land, vol. iii.; among the worst of which are 
Berberis vulgaris, Cuscuta europea, and Brassica napus. The culture of 
carrots, vol. ili., and on the best time for felling timber, vol. vii. From 
the experience of two cultivators, it would appear that the months of 
May and June are to be preferred for cutting down timber trees to the 
months of February and March, when they are surcharged with sap. 

A paper is inserted in this journal (Vol. III. p. 68.) which shows the 
importance of using scientific names in connection with local appellations. 
The writer says, the yam is cultivated in different parts of Scotland, and is 
found preferable to the potatoe; and he quotes Willich’s Domestic 
Encyclopedia. May it not then grow, he asks, in New England? The yam 
of the American writer is the West Indian plant of that name, Dioscorea 
sativa; that of Dr. Willich is the potatoe-yam, a variety of Solanum 
tuberosum. 


Vor. I. No. 2. Pr 


198 


PART UL 


MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. I. Foreign Notices. 


FRANCE. 


Remarkable Variety of Apple Tree. In the annals of the Linnean 
Society of Paris for May 1824, M. Tillette de Clermont-Tonnere has de- 
scribed a remarkable apple-tree as growing at St.. Valery in Normandy. 
This apple-tree, which they believe to be between thirty and forty years’ 
growth, has constantly produced flowers of one sex, and consequently 
barren ; the flower is composed of an external and internal calyx, with 
neither stamens nor corolla. The female organs consist of fourteen 
styles, with oblique stigmas. Atthe period of flowering it is customary 
for every young woman of St. Valery to go and make her apple, (d’aller 
faire sa pomme) by fixing a nosegay of the blossoms of any common 
apple-tree on a tuft of those of the one described; this is attached by 
a piece of ribband in such a manner that in autumn every one knows 
the fruit that her nosegay has been the cause of producing. It is re- 
marked that these fruits differ among themselves in flavour, colour, and 
size, and that they bear some relation to those of the different her- 
maphrodite trees, the blossoms of which have been used in their fecun- 
dation. Grafts from this tree remain always barren, notwithstanding 
attempts to fecundate the blossoms artificially. Seeds sown have come 
up very well, but the plants are still too young to produce blossoms. 

Multiplying Roses by Cuttings. ‘Towards the 
end of July, M. Gossart rings young shoots of 
the same year, covering the space where the 
bark was taken off by a little woo.. In a short 
time a thickened ring (une bourrelet) appears 
round both edges of the rmg: in November he 
cuts off the shoot close under the upper ring, 
plants in light soil, keeps rather moist and shaded, 
and the cutting shoots freely the following spring. 
Another mode is, fifteen days after ringing the 
shoot, to lay it in the soil, or draw it through a pot 
of earth or tin case (cornet) (jig. 54.) in the Chi- 
nese manner, and it will root and grow the same 
season. A third mode is adopted, after the se- 
cond sap, commonly called that of St. John, by 
slipping off young shoots of that second sap be- 
fore. they are longer than the little finger; plant 
them as cuttings im peat earth, cover them with 
a bell-glass, and shade them, and six out of nine 
will take root. 

Garden of Fromont. This establishment is 
situated at Ris, in the department of Seine et 
Oise, a few miles from Paris. It was founded 
by M. Soulange Bodin, the proprietor, member 
of several societies, and author of Récit d’une 
Excursion Horticulturale, faite 4 Londres dans le 
mois d’Avril, 1824.. It is said to contain a good general collection which 


Foreign Notices — Germany. - 199 


ae propagated and sold at a low price, as determined by a printed cata- 

ogue. ; 

"Moveable Melon Grounds. M. Soulange Bodin having changed the site 

of his melon-ground at Fromont, and found the soil impregnated with the © 
liquid manure which had drained from his dung-beds to a considerable 

depth, proposes in future to move the site of his hot-beds from one part 

of the garden to another, in order to manure the whole in succession. He 

says, “ we have folded our hot-beds as a shepherd folds his sheep, and the 

drainings of the dung have done in the one case, what the droppings of 
the sheep have in the other.” Hurdles of reeds form a portable fence and 

shelter.—( Bull. Univ. February, 1825.) 

MAdan’s Roads. The Paris Agricultural Society have printed a pam- 
phlet on this subject, from a communication by Sir John Byerly, and 
distributed numerous copies of it among the road engineers of the different 
departments. 

Grafting the Cedar on the Larch. The union of these two species, 
though practicable in theory, was never, as far as we know, actually 
carried into execution, till M. Le Fievre, a nurseryman at Nantes, in the 
west of France, tried it, and succeeded perfectly.—( Bull. Univer. October 
1825.) 

Silk-Worms. At the last sitting of the Philomathic Society at Paris, a 
memoir underwent discussion which had been read at the Society for the 
Encouragement of Industry and the Arts, the object of which was to prove 
that the cultivation of the mulberry-tree, and the rearing of silk-worms, 
might be carried on as successfully in the neighbourhood of Paris as at 
Lyons. In support of this opinion, the resuits of various experimerts 
made at Tours and at St. Germain’s near Paris were cited; and it was 
shown, that those results (owing, doubtless, to greater care) were superior 
even to the products of Piedmont itself. The author of the memoir 
further proves, that the countries which are the most favourable for the 
cultivation of the mulberry-tree are those which lie between the 42d and 
48th degree of lJatitude.—(Lit. Gaz. Jan. 1826.) 

Daphne laureola. In the island of Corsica, a man has been lately tried 
for having caused the death of several individuals by poisoning a rivulet 
with the branches and leaves of this plant. A law exists, dated so far back 
as 1669, which provides that putting laurel leaves into small rivulets, with 
the intent of poisoning the water, is punishable with death ; and even when 
no bad intention is meant, with imprisonment. We may observe here, that 
uniess the scientific name of the plant is given in the ordinance it may 
occasion much dispute; for on the continent as ig Britain, the word 
laurel is applied to several species of daphne, to two species of prunus, to 
viburnum tinus, and to jaurus nobilis. (Bull. Univ.) 


GERMANY. 


Myrica Cerifera. This plant has been cultivated for seven years, in the 
open ground of the Botanic Garden of Carlshrue; it there ripens its fruit, 
five pounds of which furnish by decoction, upwards of 8 ounces of green wax. 

Extraordinary Utility of the Nettle. In the weekly newspaper of the 
Bavarian Agricultural Society, 1825., No. 6., the nettle is said to have the 
following properties: 1. Eaten in sallad, it cures consumption; 2. It 
fattens horned cattle, whether eaten green or dried; 3. Experience has 
shown that it not only fattens calves, but improves their breed; 4. It is an 
antidote to most maladies; 5. Sheep which eat it, bring forth healthy, 
vigorous lambs ; 6. It promotes the laying of eggs in hens; 7. It improves the 
fat of pigs; 8. The seeds, mixed with oats, are excellent’ for horses; 9. It 
grows all the year round, even in the coldest weather; 10. The fibres of 
the stem make an excellent hemp. 

The Bavarian oracle might have added, that few plants force better or 


yn 9 


200 Notices — Switzerland and Italy. 


more rapidly, and that the tender shoots so produced, make a delicate 
and high-flavoured pot-herb, resembling the points of the shoots of 
pompion. 

It is certain the nettle is much valued in Holland, where its young 
shoots are used as a pot-herb ; its roots for dying yellow ; where the horse- 
dealers give the seeds to horses, to make them brisk and give them a fine 
skin; and where considerable portions of fields are planted with it, and 
mown five or six times a year, as green food. 

The Acorn, in forest districts, in Saxony, is successfully used to fatten sheep 
during the winter. (Bav. Journ. 1823.) 

Distinguishing Fruit Trees by their Blossoms. An interesting paper on 
this subject will be found in the memoirs of the Pomological Society of 
Altenburg, vol. 1., for 1821., by M. Waitz. The characters,on which he 
founds his distinctions are: 1. The style; its being parted more or less deeply, 
smooth or velvet-like, longer or shorter than the stamens, &c.: 2. The 
petals; being open or shut, near or distant, &c.: 3. In their colour: 4. In 
the time of flowering. 

Grafting Pears on Apples. Various examples of success are given of 
this operation by M. Hempel; and also of grafting apples on pears, though 
the last practice is not so successful and the plants do not last long. (Jem. 
Soc. Pom. d’ Altenb. Vol. 1.) 

Borage as manure. A writer in a Bavarian Weekly Journal, recommends 
sowing this plant, and when it is full grown ploughing itdown. ‘The good 
effects of Borage as a green manure, he has proved by long experience. 
What renders it preferable to most other plants, for this purpose is the 
great quantity of soda and other salts which it contains. It may be 
sown in April and ploughed down in August, in time to be followed by wheat. 

Water Cress. About eighteen years ago the culture of this plant was 
commenced in the neighbourhood of London; a few years afterwards it 
was begun near Paris, and it seems it has lately been successfully engaged 
in, in the neighbourhood of Erfurth, in Bavaria. Such is the influence of 
the example of England; which ought to teach us to set none, either in 
matters of taste or utility, that will not reflect honour on the country. The 
magic word London, isa passport to every fashion. In consequence of 
the establishment of the Horticultural Society there, by Sir Joseph Banks, 
and a few individuals, in 1808, similar societies have now sprung up inevery 
part of the world. In 1819 a paper appeared in the Horticultural Society’s 
Transactions on the culture of water-cress in the neighbourhood of London ; 
since which this plant has become a fashionable salad, not only throughout 
Britain, but in Frange and Germany. 


SWITZERLAND. 


The Haymaking Machine, (Encyc. of Ag. § 2597.) has been introduced 
into Switzerland, and employed to ted meadow hay with perfect success. 
(Bullet. @ Agric. de Geneve, 2 Ann.) 

New Zealand Spinage.  Tetragonia expansa. ‘This plant has been 
cultivated in the neighbourhood of Lausanne, and is valued, as in England, 
for its abundant produce during the hottest of the summer months. 


ITALY. » 


Pomona Italiana. A work under this title by George Gallesio was com- 
menced in 1817. The author is known by his treatise on the Genus Citrus, 
and is considered by some as the Duhamel of Italy. Onthis work he has 
been employed eight years, and has spared no pains to describe exactly the 
best varieties of fruits cultivated in Italy, adding the synonimes of their 
names, and their peculiar culture. Fourteennumbers of this work, in quarto, 
had appeared in January 1825; and twenty-six more will complete the 
work, 


Notices — Holland and the Netherlands. F017 


Cultivation without Dung. M.Coryaillé of Toulouse, has published a 
pamphlet, in part a translation from the Italian, to show that this may be 
effected by burying in the soil half grown crops. He gives an example 
of a field in Piedmont, which was divided in two equal parts: on one of 
these rye, sown in November, was plowed down on the 5th of May 
following; at the same time the other half was well manured with stable 
dung. Both were sown with maize; and treated with the same care. At 
harvest, the produce of the crop grown on the plowed-down rye, ex- 
ceeded that grown on the dung in the proportion of 425to 300. M. 
Jourbert of Turin who made this experiment, thinks rye the best of all 
plants for plowing in; but it does not follow from the above experiment, 
that burying living vegetables is to be preferred to manuring, because the 
effects of the latter last for three or four years, while that of plowing -in 
growing plants is seldom perceptible on a second crop. We have no 
doubt however, that if the poorest land had such crops as were grown 
upon it plowed down when they were half arrived at maturity, for a series 
of years in succession, it would in the end become rich. But how many 
years it would require to effect this is very uncertain. 


HOLLAND AND THE NETHERLANDS. 


The Society of Agriculture and Botany of Ghent, seem to be making ex- 
traordinary exertions for the promotion of every department of culture. 
At their annual meeting in June 1825, a report was made by the secretary, 
of their transactions for the by-past year, from which we make the 
following selections. M.P Verleeuwen, junr. Commercial Florist, com- 
municated his observations on the principal Horticultural Establishments 
inthe neighbourhood of London. He notices the very small size of the 
panes of glasses employed in hot-house and hot-bed sashes; the general 
disuse of tan in plant-stoves, and especially those of Messrs. Loddiges; the 
great care and neatness displayed in every description of plant habitation, 
and the continual changing of the situation of pots, so as to vary the in- 
fluence of the sun and light upon them according to circumstances. M. 
Van Mons, of Louvain, presented a description of the Colmar Dewez pear 
(Gard. Mag. p. 85.)raised by him from seed, and dedicated to M. Dewez, 
perpetual secretary of the Royal Academy of Sciences and Belles Lettres of 
Brussels. An account of the manner of gathering opium on Mount Oympus 
from personal inspection, and a collection of seeds from the Levant, were 
presented by M. de Lescluze. To this gentleman is owing the introduction 
to the Netherlands of the Thibet goat. Gastonia palmata was presented 
from the superb hot-houses of M. Caters-de-Wolf of Berchen, near Ant- 
werp, (jig. 35.) ‘Two of these hot-houses are curvilineal, and were exe- 

35 


cuted by Messrs. Bailey, of London, and glazed with plate glass like those 
at Ashridge Park, and are reckoned the most elegant in that part of the 
continent. M.M. Van Cassel, Van Damme and Papelew, commercial 
gardeners, gave an account of some beautiful Hybrid heaths, and Azaleas 
which they had raised from seed procured by artificial fecundation. M. P. 
Cock, a seedsman communicated remarks on several pretended new sorts 
of culinary plants, whichsome of his brethren have introduccd in their 
catalogues, but which he considers as for the greater part inferior to those 
inuse. He presented a catalogue of his own seeds, in which was indicated 
PS 


202 Notices — Holland and the Netherlands. 


the length of time that each sort might be preserved in a fit state for 
germination. In 1824 the society proposed to give a gold watch,. or a 
silver snuff-box, for the handsomest ox, heifer, and calf, that should 
appear in the market at Ghent on a particular day. A deputation from 
the society attended on that day, and gave away two gold watches for the 
best heifer, and the best ox ; a silver snuff-box for the best calf, and a silver 
crook to the shepherd who produced the best lamb. - 

We pass over several other things to noticea medal given for the best 
cultivated tree nursery in the district of Ghent, and which was adjudged to M. 
Verschaffelt. A general circuit of the province by a commission from the 
society, district by district, to examine into the state of gentlemen’s gardens 
with a view of giving a prize to the gardener who had his garden in the best 
state of culture and management, being a part of the society’s plan, the dis- 
trict of Ghent was examined last summer, and a sort of journal was now 
read of the state of the different gardens examined. Some of the most in- 
teresting are those described by Mr. Niel in his horticultural tour ; and it is 
gratifymg to observe that the names of the gardeners are mentioned with 
approbation, as well as those of their masters. The commission have ad- 
judged the medal of honour to Jean Huyze, for his superior management 
and high keeping of all the departments of culture, and scenes of rural 
beauty, in the country seat of the Comte Delafaille of Everghem. It is 
worthy of remark that the society examine only one district per annum, but 
as they make a point of never making it known what district they intend to 
go over, nor even the time of going over it, allthe gardeners of the province 
are kept continually on the alert, least the commission should unexpectedly 
drop inupon them. What a wonderful stimulus would be given to garden- 
ing if a similar plan were adopted by the Horticultural Society of London. 
As a central and national society, it should embrace every county of the 
three kingdoms, never giving the least public notice whether they intended 
taking a county of Ireland or Britain. This would keep the whole on the - 
alert, and the good would be done not so much by the honorary medal or 
premium given to one or two or three individuals, as by the account the 
commission ought to give of every garden into which they entered. This 
account might be published in the Transactions, in a separate pamphlet, in 
this Magazine, or, what would be best of all in the newspaper of the 
county. It is astonishing what excitement this would give to gardeners ; 
the notice thus taken of them would be gratifying, and the humblest would 
feel that he was a part of the great whole. It is evident it would not be 
less beneficial to their employers, and to many of them not less gratifying. 

A discourse is delivered at the distribution of the prizes, by the president, 
and afterwards published, (see p. 197.) In this pamphlet is noticed the 
different local societies which have sprung up since the central one of Ghent 
was established. Notice is taken of the excellent management of the Ghent 
Botanic Garden, by M. Mussche the curator, and of the extensive dona- 
tions of seeds received from the East Indies, and from Father Leandro de 
Sacramento, Professor of Botany in the Garden at Rio Janeiro. We are in- 
formed in it that the government of the Netherlands, wishing to encourage 
the taste of the inhabitants forthe culture of trees, has procured from 
America a quantity of seeds, which they presented to the different central 
and local societies; to be by them distributed among their members. Most 
‘ of these, the president observes, have germinated freely, and especially in 
the Ghent garden, where a sample of each was sown by M. Mussche. 
In this garden, Curculigo sumatrana, and Mantisia saltatoria, have flowered 
for the first time. Great improvements have been made at the Hague, 
a_ royal residence, which may be compared to our Kensington, by M. Van 
Donkelaer, and the president states, that considering the majesty of the old 
trees, which seem as if they had been sown by the hand of nature, and the 
magnificence of the canals, and limpidity of the waters which flow among 


Notices — Denmark and Russia. 203 


them, this residence may be considered as one of the finest landscape gardens 
in Europe. Teurnay, one of those cities which next to Ghent is dis- 
tinguished by the zeal of its inhabitants for every thing good and useiul, 
has lately estabiished a botanic garden, and professorship of botany. 

Heating by Steam. The society of Harlem have adjudged to Mr. W. 
Bailey, of fotsens London, the prize for the best essay on this subject. 
The translator of the essay has added some remarks on this mode of 
heating, fromthe publication of Mr. Tredgold, “ On Heating and. Venti- 
lating Public and Private Buildings,” by far the best work which has vet ap- 
peared on the subject. 


DENMARK. 


Common Laurel. It may give a practical idea of the climate in the 
neighbourhood of Copenhagen, to state that the prunus lauro-cerasus 
requires the same protection there during the winter that the magnolia 
grandiflora does here. One plant lived for thirty years in the shrubbery of 
the celebrated park of Dronningaard, one of the finest residences in Den- 
mark. It was looked upon as a great curiosity, but was killed with the 
great frost in the years 1819--20. We mention these facts on the 
authority of a young man (Peterson), now in this country at the expence of 
the Crown Prince, studyimg gardening. His account of Mr. Lindgaard 
is very interesting ; though he has never been in England, he understands 
the English language perfectly, besides Dutch, German, and French; he is 
not a botanist, but a most successful culinary and fruit gardener. The 
government, Peterson observes, are using every means to spread the culture 
ofthe common hardy fruits in the country ; and gooseberries, apples, plums, 
and pears, may be purchased from the national nurseries for little more 
than a half-penny a plant. Peterson has been some time at Kew, and is now 
i Lee’s nursery; and having been well educated, and being endowed with 
habits of observation, he will return to his own country a valuable man 


RUSSIA. 


Petrovskoyé, the village and country seat of Prince Dolgorukii, is one of 
the most magnificent villas in respect to gardens, in the neighbourhood of 
Moscow. It is situated on a flat surface, somewhat diversified by natural 
woods, and artificial lakes. The mansion-house is not large, and, though 
neat enough and embellished with columns, is not at all remarkable for its 
architecture. Its appearance is much disfigured by the contiguity of a 
number of sombre wooden and brick houses, which, however, is quite 
.d-la-mode Russe ; for close to almost every nobleman’s dwelling in the 
country you find a village of peasants. The view of the back facade is by 
far the most attractive, because it is oppesite the gardens. The interior is 
elegantly fitted up, and the inner apartments open into a finely arranged but 
small flower-garden, inclosed by a low balustrade. “ I may remark, en pas- 
sant, that the Russians show their well known taste for masses of gaudy and 
splendid colours, even in their gardens. Every where about Moscow, as well 
as in the city,and in the interior of Russia, [ observed immense clusters of 
roses, pzonies, poppies, holyhocks, sweetwilliams, tulips, jonquils, lilies, 
pinks, carnations, larkspurs, columbines, Indian cresses, sun-flowers, mary- 
golds, hyacinths, bell-flowers, &c. intermixed at times with other flowers of 
less vivid colours, or ranged in parterres, and frequently disposed with con- 
siderable effect. 

“The gravel-walks at Pentrovskoyé are made in the English style, are 
very broad and kept in excellent order. They wind, to a great. extent, by the 
banks of a large and beautiful lake, (fig. 36.) which encircles a number of 
islands, and bears a small fleet of boats on its bosom— as well as through 
lawns and woods of luxuriant foliage. Temples, summer-houses, statues, 
vases, and fine orangeries diversify the scenery. In another part of the 

EA: 


204 Notices — Sweden and Spain. 


grounds cropt trees, and avenues of fantastic figures, display the com- 
plete triumph of art over nature, and afford an* example the most com- 
plete in the neighbourhood of Moscow, of the geometric style of gardening. 

“ The Petrovskoyé gardens are open at times to the public, particularly 
on Sundays, and the visitors there enjoy fine promenades, which are often 


36 


enlivened by music. The estate has now most likely passed for ever from 
the Razumovskii family ; Prince Dolgorokii having paid 300,000 roubles 
for his purchase — a very large sum of money in the northern empire.” 


(Blackwood’s Mag.) 
SWEDEN. 


Ribes Jasminiflorum. In the annals of the Royal Academy of Agriculture 
‘of Sweden for 1823, a new species of currant is described by M. Agardh ; 
it was received from North America, and is considered sufficiently hardy to 
endure the open air in Sweden. Its fruit is not materially different from 
that of the common red currant; but its flower is yellow, and as the name 
imports, resembles that of the common jasmine. 

Lactometer. One of these invented by Sir Humphry Davey is deseribed 
in the Philosophical Magazine for October 1821; another was invented 
about ten years ago by M. Cadet de Vaux, and which is sold in 
Paris by the opticians under the name of galactometer; a very simple one 
was invented by a gentleman in Liverpool, and one by a lady in Edinburgh, 
both of which are described in our Encyclopedia of Agriculture (6510) ; 
lastly, one has been invented in Sweden by M. G. Collin, and described in 
the Annals of the Swedish Agricultural Academy for 1825. 


SPAIN. 


Cochineal Insects, and Suk Worms. According to aletter lately received from 
Barcelona, it would seein that the experiments made on cochineal, in that 
neighbeurhood, have hitherto been extremely successful. Notwithstanding 
some severe and boisterous weather experienced in the month of October 
and beginning of November, no accident had happened to the young 
insects, which were in a thriving condition. Glass-houses had been pre- 
pared for their reception, during the severe months of the winter, and from 
all appearances, it was thought that several new establishments of this 
interesting breed would be formed and stocked during the ensuing year, the 
late increase having been so great. Ifthe Spaniards were to devote their 
attention to the cultivation of other articles, for which they have hitherto 
been dependant on South America, instead of spending their money on 
useless projects of re-conquest, they would eventually find the solid 
advantage of it. Their country contains mines of great value, and by 


= < 


Notices — North America. 205 


working them, and improving their agriculture, they would soon make up 
for the revenue they have lost beyond the seas. The China breed of silk- 
worms has also, we understand, been recently introduced into Spain, by a 
lady of title. (Morn. Chron. Dec. 14. 1825.) 

Prickly Pear and Cochineal. In December last, two members of the 
Economical Society of Cadiz, went to Madrid, and presented to the king a 
treatise just published on the cultivation of the prickly pear, and growth of 
cochineal ; the subject at present being much in vogue in Catalonia and 
Andalusia. They also presented several caskets of cochineal, which the 
society had been able to acclimate and propagate. ( Newspapers.) 

NORTH AMERICA. 


Planting in North America. A work has recently been published by M. 
Michaux, son of the celebrated botanist of that name, in which he de- 
plores the destruction of the forests of Massachusetts, ‘and predicts, as 
writers of the same class do in England, a dearth of wood in that part 
of the United States, if planting is not immediately commenced, and assi- 
duously pursued. 

Mineral Potatoe. The editor of the Darien (Georgia) paper says, “ Mr. 
Reuben King, last week very politely presented us with a mineral potatoe, 
erythrina erecta, or Cherokee root, the first, it is presumed, ever found 
in this part of Georgia. It weighed seven pounds, two ounces and 2 half. 
It appears to be a species of the sweet potatoe, but has rather a bitter 
taste; hogs eat it with avidity. It is probable that, if cultivated, it would 
be a valuable article for fattening hogs.” 

Descriptive Notice of Waltham House, in the state of Massachusetts, the 
property of Theodore Lyman, Esquire, communicated, together with an 
elegant drawing, by Dr. Hosack, president of the Horticultural Society of 
New York. 


This residence is situated in a very flourishing country, about nine 
miles from Boston. The grounds round the house consist of a lawn of 
a mile in length in front, upon which there are many fine oaks, English 
and American elms, Linden and other valuable forest trees. A deep and 
clear stream of water, varying in breadth, runs the whole length of the 
lawn, and afterwards falls into Charles river. ‘There is an extensive park 
containing about forty deer, principally of the Bengal breed; to the left 
and rear of the house is the kitchen garden. grapery, greenhouse, hot- 
house, wall for fruit, &c. 

Horticultural Society of New York. This society proposes. to form a 
garden from ten to twenty acres, devoted to horticulture and botany, but 
more particularly to the culture of fruit-trees. They propose also to have 
a hall for public lectures, a library, a botanical cabinet, and a professor 
of botany and horticulture. (Americ. Journ. of Sciences and Arts, Aug. 
1824,) 


206 ) Notices — South America 


Agave Americana Maguey, Mex. This plant is extensively cultivated 
in Mexico, for the sake of its sap, from which the Mexicans distil their 
favourite spirit pulque. ‘“ The plants are set about five or six feet asunder, 
and, in favourable situations, come into bloom in about ten years, at which 
period the valuable liquor they produce is to be procured. As soon as 
the cultivator perceives the plant preparing to throw up its long flower 
stem, he cuts out the leaves which form its centre, and hollows it out in 
the shape of a bowl, at the same time removing most of the other 
leaves, so that the whole sap destined for their supply flows to the great 
stem, and is received by the bowl-shaped cavity, into which it runs with 
such rapidity as to require to be emptied several times a day, for a space 
of two months. The liquor, when collected, is placed in jars or skins ; 
it undergoes a slight fermentation, which takes place in a few days, and 
itis then fit for immediate drinking. Strangers prefer it when fresh, but 
the natives seldom use it till it has acquired a strong taste, and a dis- 
agreeable fetid sme!l, denominated fuerte, when it is esteemed in high 
perfection. A strong spirit, called pulque brandy, is distilled from this 
liquor. This is also called vino mercal; and resembles Scotch whiskey in 
colour and flavour; but it has a little more flavour of alcohol. The leaves 
of the plant form the roofs of some of the Indian houses, the stalks 
their props and rafters, and both their fences; ropes, thread, cloth, and 
paper are made from it ; some part of the plant is used medicinally, and 
the root, prepared with sugar, is converted into sweetmeats. — (Bullock’s 
Mexico, p. 20, 21, 22.) Mr. Stevenson adds, that the Indians use the 
prickles as a substitute for needles; the leaves as a substitute for soap, and 
that the flower buds are eaten boiled or pickled. —( Travels, vol. ii. p. 9). 

_ The plant attains a great size; some of the leaves measured ten feet 
long, fifteen inches wide, and eight thick; their flower-stalks were twenty 
feet high, and their arms, expanding like rich candelabras, clustered with 
yellow flowers. (2b. 70.) It is worthy of remark, that the flower-stem of 
the aloe, which we have noticed (Gard. Mag. No. 1. p. 89.) as having 
flowered last summer at the Duke of Devonshire’s, was upwards of twenty- 
four feet in height. 

Emigration. A few intelligent gardeners from the north of our island 
would soon acquire fortunes in the neighbourhood of Mexico, and be the 
nieans of increasing the blessings already enjoyed by the people in those 
delightful regions.. In such a country and climate the finest productions 
of every part of the globe might be produced, but the whole is left to 
the care of untutored Indians, whose horticultural! knowledge is indeed 
very limited.—(Bull. Mex. vol. i. p. 192.) 


SOUTH AMERICA. 


Chilian Flower Garden. When Captain Hall was at Santiago, he visited 
a lady in the evening, who expressed great regret, owing to its being dark, 
that she could not show him her garden, which, she said, was “the pride 
of her life’ In a few days afterwards he paid her a visit in the day time, 
when the good iady was delighted, and led the way with great glee to 
her favourite spot “ It certainly,’ Captain Hall observes, “ was a bril- 
iant spectacle ; for in these climates where nature does so much, the least 
assistance multiplies the effect ina manner of which, in cold regions, we 
have no conception. But our good dame, who thought of nothing less than 
letting nature have her course, had planted her flowers, and cut her walks 
and borders into the form of beasts, birds, and fishes ; not only had she 
displayed the figures of the animals in a sort of relief, by raising and de- 
pressing the soil, but she had attended minutely to the appropriate colours 
of each, by the careful distribution of the proper flowers; and, to do her 
justice, the spot looked more like a menagerie than a garden !”--(Capl. 
Hall's Chili, Peru, §c. vol. 1. p. 175.) 


Notices — Asia and Australasia. 207 


ASIA. 


Tarts of Rose-leaves. A writer in the New Monthly Magazine observes 
that one of the best tarts he ever tasted “ was composed of nothing but 
rose-leaves.”” What variety of rose it is whose leaves alone compose a 
tart, he does not mention. He adds, that the most exquisite conserves 
are made in the neighbourhood of Damascus, amongst which are dried 
cakes of roses. The celebrated plain of roses from which the tarts, the 
cakes, and the attar is obtained, is about three miles from the town; it 
is a part of the great plain of Syria, and its entire area is thickly planted 
with rose-trees, which are cultivated, and irrigated with great care.— 
(New Monthly Mag. No. 79. p. 454.) 

Agricultural Society of Calcutta. At a meeting of this Society, held on 
the 22d March, a variety of seeds were presented, which were sent from 
Cachemire and Ladak, by M. Moorcroft. Among these seeds are men- 
tioned the wild pear and apple, apricot, melon, marsh onion, buck wheat, 
lucerne, saffron, and the Prangos hog plant. Among the books pre- 
sented was a Treatise on Agriculture for Nepal, by Raja Gunshan Shingh. 
—(Asiat. Jour. Oct. 1825.) 


AUSTRALASIA. 


Cotton. Some very fine specimens, grown in the parallel of 320 south 
latitude, has been sent to Glasgow for manufacture. There can be no 
doubt that in a short time New Holland will afford an immense supply of 
this article. Ff 

Van Diemen’s Land. ‘The following very interesting letter on the 
Horticulture of this colony has been communicated to us by Mr. Joseph 
Knight, F.H.S. Nurseryman, Kings-road, Little Chelsea, to whom it is 
addressed. 

Forcett, near Hobart’s Town, Van Diemen’s Land. 
Sir, 4th September, 1825. 

THE good wishes you expressed for Van Diemen’s Land, in your 
communications with Mr. Wedge, a young gentleman in the Surveyor’s 
department in this colony, induces me to trouble you with this: I hope 
my intention will be my excuse, and that any further apology will be un- 
necessary. _ 

I mest first thank you for the very liberal supply of fruit trees, with which 
you were so kind as to present him, on his leaving England, in the ship 
Heroine, the beginning of last year, and though they may be considered his 
sole property, yet they will soon get distributed through the Island; they 
arrived at a very good time of the year, and were planted in a gentleman’s 
garden, near Hobart Town, where many have recovered the effects of so 
long a voyage; those that suffered the most were the stone fruits. 

Thinking you would be gratified with a specimen of the fruits of this 
country, but as the very great distance renders it impossible to send them, 
Lhave taking the liberty of forwarding figures of a few of the different 
kinds of apples grown in my garden: could I flatter myself, that any further 
description of them from me would be worth your perusal,I certainly 
would attempt it; I shall, therefore, merely state that they were all reared 
from pips in this colony, the oldest plant not being more than twelve or 
fourteen years. Nos. , and . are coloured just as they came off the 
tree, and are good representations. No. .is the same as No. . but was 
gathered three or four weeks before it was painted. It may be gratifying 
to know that No. . is avery late apple, the buds not showing the least in- 
fluence of the Spring, when all other kinds are in full bloom; it was raised 
by A. W.H. Humphrey, Esq. our superintendant of police, a gentleman 
much attached to Horticulture: the others were reared by a very indus- 
trious farmer, of the name of Stanfield; probably none more ignorant of 
Horticulture than he is; he sows the pips, and gets trees, which, if they 


208 Notices —- Australasia. 


bear fruit, good or bad, is the same to him. His son has planted a con- 
siderable orchard (about six acres) and has taken the pains to graft the best 
kind of apples he could procure. I have also forwarded by this conveyance 
half a dozen trees in a box, viz. two of No. .two of No. . and two of a 
seedling apple, which was reared by Mr. Gunning, a neighbour of mine; it 
has borne only twice, and I unfortunately could not get one to have it 
painted; it is a handsome conical shaped fruit, brownish green, and above 
the medium size, something in the shape like No. . We have twelve or 
fifteen kinds of seedling apples, of very tolerable sorts, and scores that are 
worth nothing. I have raised several, but not one I can call decent. 
Another year I may be able to send you a greater variety, and better speci- 
mens, as the last summer was so excessively hot and dry, the fruit did not 
swell to its proper size. | : 

You will probably expect to have a description of the state of Horticul- 
ture in Van Diemen’s Land, but when [ tell you, that I do not know one 
scientific gardener in all our importations (to the credit of the craft), you 
must think we make but a poor show. ‘The gardener which I have is by 
trade a Leicestershire stocking weaver, but.a very clever fellow with a 
spade or a hoe, and. can observe any directions I may give him. All plants 
of the brassica tribe are grown in great perfection, as are all root 
crops. Peas and kidney beans are very prolific, but common garden 
beans are very bad bearers: the white blossomed bean is the best, 
but that hardly worth cultivating. Onions grow well, particularly the 
potatoe onion, and in this climate we can rear any quantity of onion seed, 
which cannot be done in New South Wales. We want varieties, the 
Globe and the Strasburg. It is now upwards of twenty-four years since I 
saw an asparagus bed in England, and not being then much accustomed to 
a garden, my recollection of one may not be very good, but I cannot con- 
ceive any thing of the kind can be superior to what we can show here. I 
durst almost challenge Mr. Judd. Sea kale grows very luxuriantly here, but 
is too troublesome (we have no potteries), and it does not precede the 
asparagus above aweek. Of fruits, we have apples, pears (only two kinds), 
quinces, gooseberries a few varieties, currants, raspberries, strawberries ; 
these last do not bear well, all the others most abundantly; grapes bear 
well, and ripen tolerably in good situations, also peaches and nectarines ; 
of the last we have only one kind: I certainly never saw finer in New 
South Wales; they are very large, and deep blood red; only one plum, a 
kind of green gage; cherries, two kinds, the small Kentish, and May duke ; 
they bear most abundantly. We have imported no apricots until the last 
year or two, when Mr. Frazer, the colonial botanist at Sydney, sent me a 
few scions of the Moor Park, but there are several bearing trees in the 
colony, reared from stones: Ido not think they are worth much, but 
might be improved by proper culture. Ido not know whether you will 
give credit to what I am about to relate, but the farmer who reared the 
apples positively asserts, that after eating a peach in his garden, he imme- 
diately planted the stone, which has produced a nectarine ; J shall ascertain 
the fact, if possible, the next summer: from what I read in Loudon’s En- 
cyclopzedia of Gardening, I should conceive it not impossible. 

It gives me great pleasure in having an opportunity, direct from this 
port, of sending this, and should you consider it worth your perusal and 
acceptance, I shall be still more gratified, and in return, may I request you 
to procure me a couple of sacks of the best kind of potatoes, for a general 
crop, which Captain Carnes, of the ship Cumberland, will bring out to me. 
I should have requested him to execute this commission, but he might 
be imposed on by anold worn-out sort. Our potatoes are all gone that 
were good for any thing, and though we have reared a good many from 
seed, yet we have not what I call a good kind; they may improve another 
year. 


Notices — Australasia. 209 


I hardly dare say how acceptable a few fruit trees would be, particularly 
apples, pears, cherries, and plums. The New Town pippin, and all the 
apples and cherries of your own rearing, I am sure, would thrive and ripen 
well in this climate. I am no great florist, but should like to see a moss 
rose, and a few varieties of roses, a woodbine, southernwood and worm- 
wood ; and the primrose, cowslip, polyanthus, and auricula, would be most 
pleasing to a person so long from England as I have been. 

The common crab for procuring good stocks (I am looking a long way 
forward), also the Siberian and French crabs, would be very acceptable. 
Ihave requested Captain Carnes to procure me a few seeds of culinary 
vegetables, from the most celebrated seedsman in London, and have directed 
him to wrap them up in common brown paper, and bring them in his trunk 
with his clothes, or any chest standing in a cabin, that will be opened two 
or three times in a week, by which they will get aired. I have known 
persons arrive in this colony, who have taken great pains to have seeds 
soldered up in tin cases, or packed in paper cases, covered with three or 
four coats of varnish, which on their arrival, were entirely useless, though 
to all appearance perfectly good; while a few seeds brought casually in a 
trunk in brown paper, were as good as when packed in England; the 
reason is very obvious; those in tin cases, &c. were packed in some other 
large package, and stowed in the ship’s hold, where it is probable, it was 
not again seen till the end of the voyage; the consequence was, that the 
heat of the air in the hold, in crossing the Torrid Zone, was so great as to 
destroy the vegetative principle of the seeds. It is impossible to conceive 
the oppressive heat of the stagnant air in a ship’s hold, when under the 
Equator, except by those who have experienced it. A few years ago, the 
ship Lusitania brought here two hogshead of garden and grass seeds, which 
were perfectly air-tight ; they were readily purchased, as they had such a 
fine dry appearance, and the ship had experienced a very short passage ; 
not one seed in 10,000 grew, while a few ounces of different seeds brought 
by a passenger from the same seedsman were perfectly good. I received 
some seeds from a friend in Kent, of the golden Canterbury hop, which he 
informs me was tried previous to his writing to me, to prove its goodness, 
of which he assures me, he sealed it tight in a bottle, and I cannot get one 
to vegetate, though sown on an old melon bed, under the lights. In 
another instance, a friend of mine, anxious to bring seeds safe, purchased 
several sets’ of wine decanters with ground glass stoppers, in which he 
packed his seeds; there was not one grew. I conceive the air in the 
bottles had got stagnant and putrid; I may probably be wrong in assign- 
ing the cause, but such was the effect. This may be no information to 
you, but I think it would be well to recommend to persons taking seeds 
from England to the southern hemisphere, to pack them in the simple 
method I have described. If taken to Canada, or a climate north of Eng- 
land, it would probably be well to pack them tight to prevent damps. I 
beg leave to subscribe myself. 


Sir, 
Your most obedient, 
Joseph Knight, Esq. Humble servant, 
King’s Road, Chelsea. James Gorpon. 


From the Hobart’s Town Gazette. A principal part of our colonial 
politics is, the enormous fluctuation in the price of wheat. We have 
viewed, with no small degree of alarm, the late excessive price of this 
necessary article of consumption. We have no want of butcher’s meat at 
a moderate price. The late alteration in the duties of spirits have so affected 
the distilleries that a great quantity of barley is now in the country, and a 
portion of that, mixed with the wheat, makes wholesome and even palatable 
bread — and our climate-is at all times propitious to the growth of 


PN Osis Notices — England. 


vegetables. But the late high price induces many to hoard up grain, in 
expectation of a still higher price. We have received some small supplies 
from Sydney, but that colony can never grow enough for its own consump- 
tion. The farmers there have, it is true, many resources which we have not; 
— they have maize, in particular; fruits and vegetables in great abundance; 
and the season of harvest commences there at a much earlier period than 
with us. Notwithstanding all this, however, Van Diemen’s Land must 
always be the granary of these colonies, for their wheat is of a much inferior 
quality, and so infected with the weevil, and other causes, that it can never 
be preserved through the circuit of one whole year. They may cultivate 
the vine, the cotton plant, and the sugar cane, to what extent they please, 
still they must, from time to time, look to us to supply them with their 
bread and meat. 


ART. II. Domestic Notices. 
ENGLAND. 


Tredgar Prize Show. Mr. Miller, the nursery-man of Bristol, offered a 
Pets of a silver cup for the largest pine apple, grown in the counties of 

onmouth, Gloucester, Glamorgan, or Brecon. it was gained by the 
gardener of Sir Charles Morgan, Bart. At this meeting, premiums were 
given to cottagers for the best turkies, geese, ducks, and fowls, and for the 
greatest number of hives of bees. 

Fonthill Abey. John Bennet, Esq. M. P. for Wilts, it is said, has lately 
purchased of Mr. Farquhar, Fonthill Abbey, together with four hundred 
acres of flower-garden and pleasure ground in which the rarest and most 
beautiful of the American trees and shrubs flourish in ail the profusion and 
luxuriance of their native soil. (Newsp. Dec.) 

Early Whiie Stone Turnip. A gentleman in the neighbourhood of 
Knaresborough reaped a good crop of oats in the early part of August; 
on the 15th, he sowed the field with the early white stone turnip, which 
are now a fine crop, weighing on an average 10 tons per acre. He strongly 
recommends them as a profitable turnip; they may be sown in July, and 
appear to stand the frost well; they have only a light top with a small 
root. (Farmer’s Journal, 6th Feb. 1826.) 

Chamois Goat, Antilope Rupicapra. A male and female of this elegant 
animal have recently been imperted, and are about to be introduced into the 
park at Windser for the purpose of breeding. It is a native of the Alps of 
Tyrol, and commonly called the chamois goat. 

Packing and Preserving Seeds. Mr. Curator Anderson, of the Chelsea 
Botanic Garden, says, he received about a year ago, from the Kast Indies, 24 
seeds or nuts of corypha taliera; 12 of them were carefully wrapped up in 
paper, not one of which germinated; and 12 of them were bedded in 
powdered charcoal, every one of which grew freely. 

To preserve Pinks, Carnations, and other Plants, from being eaten by 
Hares or Rabbits. Surround the plants by a cord or pack-thread smeared 
with tar, and at such a distance from the ground as that the animals cannot 
get under it, without the tar coming in contact with their down. A proof 
of the efficacy of this practice is, that the beds of pinks &c. in Lee’s nursery, 
and other commercial gardens about town, liable to the depredations of 
these quadrupeds, are effectually preserved in this way. 

Yellow Field Turnip. A variety of this turnip, partaking by fecunda- 
tion of the qualities of the ruta baga, with red leaves and a conical top or 
neck, was raised about three years ago by Mr. Gibbs, the agricultural seeds- 
man, and for field culture is likely to supersede the old varieties of the 


Horticultural Socrety. 2i1 


yellow turnip. Unfortunately there is rather a scarcity ofseed of this 
variety for the ensuing season. 

Sorts of Wheat. The variety knownat the Cape of Good Hope, as the solid 
stalked wheat, and which is said to resist the mildew there better than any 
other, differs from the common winter wheat of Europe, chiefly in the 
roundness of the grain, which resembles pearl barley: it has been cultivated 
in England, but found to degenerate into the common wheat in three years. 
The perennial wheat of the West Indies is the triticum erectum, an ever- 
green perennial both there and here, which has weak straw, small grains, 
and produces flour of indifferent quality. In Britain its seeds seldom grow 
much larger than couch grass, triticum repens. 

Gooseberry Shows. “ ‘The Lancaster gooseberry society has fixed to weigh 
in future with avoirdupois ounces, which they have divided into 20 pts. 
which they will call pennyweights. By this alteration, a berry that weighs 
20 dwt. troy will weigh 25 dwts. avoirdupois, and 10 dwts. troy will 
be equai to 11 avoir. and rise in proportion to the 20, The insertion 
of this in your magazine, may be of interest to many of your readers, 
as it has been supposed that the goldsmith’s ounce was the lightest ; 
but this is not the case; and as there seems to be a doubt which weight 
is generally used for weighing berries in different towns, this hint may be 
the means of ascertaining the facts through the medium of the Gardener’s 
Magazine.” (Com. by M. Saul, Sulyard Street, Lancaster, 7th Feb. 1826.) 

Ross’s Camellia Gloriosa. A fine specimen of this beautiful variety is in 
bloom at the Eden Nursery, Stoke Newington, now in possession of Mr. 
Masters. It was raised from the seed of the Warratah, to which it bears 
some affinity, but is sufficiently separated from it by a double and sometimes 
treble row of outer petals ; the centre well filled, of a lighter and brighter 
colour than its parent. The leaves are remarkable for their size and dark 
green colour. Inthe same nursery are two single Camellas of great 
merit; one of them of a rose colour, and very large, with small stamina; the 

_other very large, with bold golden stamina, half of which are spatulate. 

Pruning Vines and denuding them of their Leaves in September. A 
correspondent who signs Philalethes, says, If you will have the goodness 
to refer to Hales’ Vegetable Statics, vol. 1. page 575. you will find 
the following passage, which shows that the practice of pruning the vine 
in September, described in your last number by Mr. Salisbury, was perfectly 
well known to gardeners in the neighbourhood of London, a hundred 
years ago. 

«And the reasonableness of this practice is further confirmed by the 
experience of Mr. Palmer, a curious gentleman of Chelsea, who has found 
that by pruning his vines, and pulling all the leaves offthem in September, 
as soon as the fruit was off, they have borne greater plenty of grapes than 
other vines, particularly in the year 1736, when by reason of the extreme 
wetness and coldnessof the preceding summer, the-unripe shoots produced 
generally very little fruit. 

Oriental Garden, Brighton. It is said three palms have been bought 
from Messrs. Loddiges for this establishment, at 500 guineas each ; if so, we 
rejoice to think that this magnificent garden scheme will be carried into exe 
cution, See Gard. Mag. page 89. 


Arr. III. Horticultural Society and. Garden. 


Horticultural Society. December 20th. The articles exhibited were dif- 
ferent varieties of red and yellow beet, Spanish, and red skinned chardoons, a 
Montserrat pine apple, a few apples and pears, and a few heaths and other 
green-house plants, from Messrs. Chandler and Buckingham. The pine- 
apple, which was grown in the neighbourhood of Manchester, and which 


212 Horticultural Socicty. 


some gardeners present called the Black Jamaica, had an excellent flavour 
The best apple tasted was the golden pippin, and the best pear the colmar. 
A paper was read on the cultivation of the Guernsey lily, by Mr. Knight, the 
president. 

January 3d. Several varieties of winter radishes and some flowers of 
Astrapeea Wallichii, Tussilago fragrans, and a plant of Orchis longibracteata, 
were exhibited from the garden of the society. An envile and ripley 
queen pine-apple, and some apples and pears, were tasted ; and a paper read 
on the rare plants which had flowered in the garden from March 1824, to 
March 1825, by Mr. John Lindley. 

January 17th. The chief articles produced at this day’s meeting were 
some chiccory and rhubarb stalks forced in what the society call their 
Russian-house, viz. a back shed or opaque case, heated by a flue, and which 
will also grow mushrooms if required. Ripened fruits of cactus speciosus, 
and speciosissima were exhibited from Comte de Vandes’s garden, Bayswater. 
They were about the size and shape of small gooseberries ; those of specio- 
sissima, rather the largest, and of a brownish green colour; those ef the other 
somewhat flattened, and of a shining purple. Those of cactus speciosa had 
remained upon the plant for nearly two years, the latter for nine months. 
Two pine apples were tasted, and some good colmar pears, and golden 
pippin apples ; some packets of seeds were distributed, including the sickle 
pea, tetragonia expansa, double poppy and wall-flower. Among the 
books presented were the Memoires de |’ Academie Imperiale des Sciences de 
St. Petersburg, the gift of the late emperor. The papers read, were 
remarks on temperature as applied to vegetation, by Mr. Arch. Gorrie ; a 
description of some new chrysanthemums, by the secretary; and of asym- 
pathetic movement for opening ventilators of hot-houses, by Mr. Young of 
Pitfour, Perthshire. 

February 7th. The secretary, after enumerating the subjects of the 
former meeting, and the various articles sent to the society, proceeded to 
read several communications ; one of which was from Mr. Stewart Murray, 
curator of the botanic garden at Glasgow, on the cultivation of hardy 
American orchideous plants ; one by Joseph Sabine, Esq. on forcing of figs 
in the gardens of Harewood House; and another on transplanting of the 
carrot and similar roots, by the president, accompanied with a plan, was a 

$38 communication on the construction of an Aquarium, suited to 
Chinese and other tender water plants, by Joseph Clare, Esq. There 
was read a meteorological report from observations made at the 
society’s garden, by Mr. Lindley, together with some useful inform- 
ation on the comparative properties of straight and curvilinear 
roofs to hot-houses, and on the difference of heat yielded by flues 
covered with slate, and of those covered with common tile. The 
things exhibited, were a variety ofapples and pears, a distorted branch 
| of an apple tree, full of woody excrescences, produced by the 
American blight, and some fine stalks of forced Siberian rhubarb; 
||] cuttings of the yellow berried mountain-ash ; seeds ofthe Guernsey 
parsnip, red horse carrot, white turnip radish, onion, and cabbage 

lettuce were distributed. 


February 21st. 'The communications read at this day’s meeting, 
were the following ; on protecting the blossom of wall-trees from 
frost in spring, and their fruit from wasps in autumn, by Mr. John, 
Gardener, of Ballindean; description of a stove for forcing of melons 
and cucumbers, accompanied with an explanatory plan by Mr. John 
Haythorn; physiological experiments on vines, by Mr. Thompson, 
Gardener at Welbeck ; and one from Mr. Smith, Gardener at Hop- 
ton-house, describing the rapid growth of three cedars of Lebanon 
at that place. The things exhibited were, a thermometer for ascer- 
taining the heat of bark-beds in stoves, ( fig. 38.) It consisted of a tube 
and scale inclosed in a hollow cylinder perforated to admit the heat, witha 


Horticultural Societys Garden. 213 


small door or opening in the side, for the inspecting the temperature ; and 
pointed at the lower extremity, to be the more ‘ 
readily thrust into the tan or earth; anda garden 
hammer, with a stud protruding from the head « 
im the direction of the handle, to serve as a ful- 
crum in drawing nails from wall trees. ( fig. 57. 

A double white seedling camellia was exhibited, with some succory, 
cucumbers, app.es and pears; among the last were some fine Uvedale’s 
St. Germains. There were some large shalots, said to be of superior 
quality, sent by Captain Owen from the Cape of Good Hope, distributed ; 
and some seeds of the Altringham carrot, rose coloured turnip radish, early 
frame scarlet radish, and Wellington pea. Notice was given that grafts of 
certain sorts of apples, pears, plums, &c. designated in a list, might be had 
upon application at the house of the society. 

March 7th. The communications read by the Secretary were; one from 
Mr. Stewart, Gardener to Sir Robert Preston, Bart. Valleyfield, descriptive 
of a vegetable pit; and one from Mr. Acon, Gardener to the Earl of 
Surry, on training the vine; and another describing the method of cultivating 
the celariac as practised in Germany and Denmark. ‘The things exhibited 
were some apples and pears, some sea-kale, and as anovelty, a few blanched 
shoots of the symphytum officinale, to be used as sea-kale or asparagus. 
But that which attracted most attention, was a beautiful variety of the 
primula sinensis, with white flowers, raised by the Gardener of Mr.Delafield. 
of Kensington. 

March 21st. Various papers were read, on asparagus, blacking of garden. 
walls, &c. The articles exhibited were seven varieties of camellia japonica ; 
three sorts of tart rhubarb ; and some very good sea-cale from the garden of 
the society. A ripe loquat from the stove of Captain Carmichael at 
Twickenham, and some pears, apples, and strawberries. A blanching-pot for 
sca-cale, differing from a common flower-pot, in having a knob, instead of the, 
hole, to serve as a handle, and aperforation under the knob to admit air 
to the plant. There was a blanching-pot on a similar plan for endive, of 
course a great deal smaller than the other. <A spike of ripe fruit of the sagus 
ruffil, upwards of six feet long, attracted considerable attention; it was 
sent by Charles Telfair, Esq. of the Mauritius. 

Horticultural Society’s Garden. February 16th. ‘The severe frost of 
January, during which the.thermometer here was as low as 15°, has killed 
some of the exotics, which had stood the two preceding winters uninjured. 
We allude more particularly to some species of Eucalyptus, and Metro- 
sideros, trees of. New South Wales and Van Diemens Land, which were 
trained against a south wall, and which from their being said (by Evans and 
others) to constitute the principal timber trees of that country, we fully 
expected would have been acclimated here. We still think the thing very 
probable : but we have our doubts whether training against a wall be the 
best mode for acclimating trees: it is certain the trunk and main branches 
of a tree so trained, are more exposed to the cold than if the plant had 
been a standard, and clothed from the ground upwards with side branches 
furnished with abundance of spray. Perhaps if a clump of eucalyptus were 
planted on very dry soil, and in a situation well sheltered from the north 
and east, they might stand our winters; their tops might be killed down a 
few inches ; but the main body of the plants, we think, would be safe. Plant- 
ing such exotics in a thick natural coppice wood, would also be a good place 
of trial ; for every one, on entering a coppice wood in the winter season from 
an open field, must have felt a striking difference in the temperature, as welk 
as seen there several plants, as the snow drop, violet, cowslip, &c. in flower 
before they had appeared in adjoining gardens. It is also afact, that certain 
rare plants which have their habitation in woods, have disappeared entirely 
when the wood has been cut down, and re-appeared when it has grown up 

Vor. 1. No. 2. a 


214 Horticultural Society's Garden. 


again, e.g. corallorhiza innata. One reason why the American plants grow 
so luxuriantly at Fonthill Abbey is, that they were introduced among the 
native underwoods, interspersed among bushes of hazel, dog-wood, &c. 
and sheltered by firs, oaks, and other timber trees. A shrubbery, therefore, 
we should consider a very good situation for acclimating exotics, whether 
-trees or herbs, and more especially if the soil was dry, and the shrubs 
chiefly deciduous; for it should not be forgotten that a coppice wood of 
evergreens is always colder than 6ne of deciduous bushes, owing to the 
leaves presenting a greater surface for evaporation. Groves of evergreen 
trees, onthe other hand, especially of the pine and fir tribe, present a warmer 
climate beneath them than groves of deciduous trees, because the former, 
from the closer texture of their exterior surface, reflect back more completely 
the heat radiated from the ground below. But where there are abundance 
of plants of any tree or shrub to be acclimated, we should prefer to all other 
modes that of planting each sort by itself in a compact clump, on dry 
soil, and in a sheltered situation open to the south and west. We have 
known the common myrtle escape in this way in the same garden in which 
plants trained against a south wall had been killed. 

That elegant evergreen shrub, the photinia serrulata, and also the eriobotrya 
japonica, both trained, have stood uninjured without any protection ; so has 
the single red and double white camellia as bushes, in Lee’s nursery. We 
have little doubt of these plants, as well as some other varieties of camellia, 
becoming in a few years common inhabitants of our shrubberies, and no 
such additions will have been made to them since the era of Magnolia and 
Rhododendron. 

The plants in the botanic stoves are in excellent condition; some 
amaryllises, pancratiums, and different species of that new and valuable family 
of plants, the epiphytical orchideae, together with a curious Chinese plant 
aspidistra, with flowers not unlike those of asarum, are in flower. Above 
a dozen varieties of camellia are beginning to expand their blossoms, among 
which is a fine specimen of C. fimbriata and one of hexangularis ; and in the 
botanic pits and frames, that invaluable ornament, the primula sinensis is in 
the greatest luxuriance. The history of the imtroduction of this plant 
shows how little attention was paid to searching for any new or interesting 
plant in China till very lately. The first plant of P. simensis was brought 
home by Captain Raives, of Bromley, in 1820. Its value as an ornament 
was soon ascertained, and in consequence, some captains who sailed shortly 
afterwards, brought home abundance of seeds. Had the same desire for 
finding out and bringing home Chinese plants existed a century ago, there 
can be no doubt this plant and its seeds were as abundant then as now. 

In the forcing-houses, a great many varieties of peaches and nectarines, 
and some cherries and plums in pots, are coming into fiower. On the 
back-wall trellis of one of these houses, there are several standard and 
dwarf peaches, with different kinds budded on each; by this means a great 
variety of sorts may be provedin oneseason. Inanother house different varieties 
of strawberries are coming into blossom, and against the back wall various 
figs in pots have already made shoots, which are stopped at the third, fourth, 
or fifth leaf, agreeably to Mr. Knight’s ingenious practice (Hort. Trans. 
vol.iii. p.459.). The fruit on some of these figs has attained its full size, and 
according to the plan of always stopping the young shoots as they appear at 
the fourth or fifth joint, three crops will have been ripened by Christmas 
next. 

The plants are in large sized pots, and are occasionally watered with 
liquid manure. A new house for fruiting pines has been erected since our 
last notice of this garden ; it comes very near to that description of fruiting 
house in use in the royal gardens, Kensington, (Encyc. of Gard. figs. 455, 
436; and, The different modes of cultivating the pine apple, §c.inloco); but we 
refrain at present from engraving the plan, lest it should be the intention 


Horticultural Society's Garden. Si 


of the society to publish it themselves. The pine plants in this house, 
chiefly Queen’s and Envilles, were equal, if not superior, to any in the 
neighbourhood of London, and do the highest credit to Mr. Monro, the 
head gardener. The only pines we have seen which we consider on a par 
with them, are those of Mr. Plimley at Kensington, and Mr. Shannon at 
Gunnersbury ; but which of the three are the most meritorious, having 
seen them at different periods, it is out of our power to determine. On a 
hot-bed we observed a number of pots of peas for transplanting, which had 
six or eight leaves each; cu this subject we request our readers’ attention 
to the mode described by Mr. Bishop, at the end of his paper on his own 
ea. 

‘i In a back shed heated by a flue and denominated the mushroom-house, 
are several beds of mushrooms raised in Oldacre’s manner, also pots of 
rhubarb and succory, being forcedand blanched at the same time. 

In the kitchen garden and orchard, most of the fruit trees and shrubs have 
received their winter pruning, and the operation on the whole seemed to 
have been performed on just principles. The characteristic, in every 
description of tree, seemed to be that of cutting in or shortening, with a view 
to produce fruit bearing spurs, and young wood to be given away as grafts. 
Some might be disposed to question whether this mode of cutting has not 
been too indiscriminately applied. It is certain, for imstance, that some 
sorts of pears, as the vergoulese and some varieties of colmar, bear fully as 
well on the preceding year’s wood as on spurs; and that every sort of 
apple will not bear cutting in so weil as the codlings. But we merely 
throw out this hint as a caution in the application of what we consider an 
excellent practice. The pear trees trained en-quenouille are certainly 
superior to any thing of the kind to be seen in this country; and it must be 
of importance to a cultivator to have ocular demonstration that he can 
form a fruit tree into a cone of a foot and half m diameter at the base, and 
of any height, and have it covered with fruit from top to bottom. The pear 
and apple are particularly calculated for this mode of training; the 
advantages of which are a saving of room, greater fruitfulness, the regular 
exposure of ail the fruit to the light and air, and consequently high flavor. 
From the smail space occupied by each tree, a great variety of sorts may be 
introduced in a small garden, and that without impeding the herbaceous 
crops beneath. In flower borders and shrubberies they are very ornamental, 
and also as single objects on lawns. This department of the garden has for 
two or three years past been under the management of Mr. Barnet, the 
young man who has so ably described the different sorts of strawberries ina 
recent part of the transactions, and does him the highest credit. We 
understand he has just been appointed to the situation of head gardener to 
Caledonian Horticultural Society, and though we are glad of this for his 
sake, and think the Caledonian Society have made a judicicus choice, yet 
we cannot help regretting it on the part of the society here; for we consider 
it will be very difficult to obtain a person so well qualified for describing 
the hardy fruits as he would have been, after operating two or three years 
longer among them. ‘To do this properly, comparmg one fruit with 
another is but one part of the business, and that on which we fear much 
less reliance is to be placed than is generally imagined. The blossoms of 
fruit-trees vary as muchas the fruits, more especially those of the apple and 
the peach; the leaves also differ, especially in the apple; and the buds, the 
young shoots, the mode of growth, and size, habit, and form of the tree, 
have all something peculiar in each particular variety. For this reason we 
think that whoever is to make out a catalogue and settle the nomenclature 
of the hardy fruits of the country, ought to have been among them and 
devoted to them, for a series of years together. 

In the flower garden we observed a spring-flowering variety of colchicum 
expanded, crocus susianus, vernus, and striatus, with those beautiful plants 

Q 2 


Q16 Covent Garden Market. 


bulbocodium vernum, eranthis hyemalis, and erythronium dens canis, with 
Helliborus niger, and some hepaticas, in flower. 

In the arboretum, cydonia japonica was coming into flower in the 
open shrubbery ; and chimonanthus fragrans was fully expanded against a 
south wall, and that rare and beautiful shrub berberis fascicularis has stood 
in the open garden protected by a tabernacle of reeds. The seeds of this 
evergreen shrub were sent from South America to Mr. Lambert, who only 
raised two plants from them in his own garden at Boyton, in 1819; one 
was presented to the society, and the cther was procured by Mr. Mackay, of 
the Clapton and Belgrave nurseries, who has succeeded in its propagation. 
It is a native of California, grows 10 feet high, the leaves are like those of 
the common ash, the flowers yellow and large, and the berries oval shaped 
and purple. Besides the above plant, it is doubtful if there are any others 
in Europe. It was our intention in the present number to have given a 
plan of this arboretum; but on applying to the council for permission, 
we were informed that the society intended publishing it themselves, and 
we therefore bow to their decision. 


4 


Saas 


Art. IV. Covent Garden Market. 


Jan. 3. All out of door vegetables in abundance, and no scarcity of the 
fruits of the season. 

Jan.17._ Owing to the severity of the weather, broccoli is somewhat 
injured. iorced sea-cale, asparagus, mushrooms, rhubarb, and kidney 
beans in reasonable abundance Russet apples and warden pears for 
baking. For the table, the ribston and golden pippens, and nonpareil 
apples, &c. St. Germain, colmar, winter beurré, bonchretien, and cha- 
montelle pears. Pine-apples are not scarce; but cucumbers and straw- 
berries have not yet made their appearance. The ornamental plants are 
chiefly box, holly, laurustinus, pines, firs, and similar evergreens; a few 
white violets, fading chrysanthemums, and dried everlastings. 

Feb.7. Broccoli much injured; the best 2s. per head. Spinage rather 
‘scarce ; all common vegetables plenty, but looking up in price. Aspa- 
ragus 10s. and 12s. per hundred; 
inferior 4s. and 5s. Sea cale from 
3s. to 7s. per the measure called a 
punnet ( fig. 40.). Apples 16s. to 
20s. per bushel, for the table; 3s. \ 
to 10s. for baking. Pears scarce | 
and dear. Various spring flowers, 
partially forced, as crocuses, snow- 
drops, violets, &c. have made their 
appearance; besides forced bulbs, 
as hyacinthus narcissus, Van Thol 
tulips, &c. 

Feb.21. Much the same as before; forced articles, including potatoes, 
rather more abundant. Cucumbers 21s. per brace; asparagus 4s. to 8s. per 
hundred. Some Roseberry strawberries; and forced roses, rhododendrons, 
and lilacs. 

March 7._A good supply, and most articles cheaper. Cucumbers 10s. 
per brace. Pears very scarce. 

March 21. Common vegetables abundant, especially turnip-tops, 
Broccoli cheaper. Colmar pears 1/. 1s. per dozen, and thought cheap. 
Some forced Keen’s seedling, and Roseberry strawberries, at 3s. per oz. 


Black Hamburgh and white sweet water grapes 9/. 2s. and upwards per Ib. 
No scarcity of forced flowers. 


Cry 


ee 


Galloway Horticultural Society. O07: 


Art. V. Scotland. 


Dumfries and Galloway Horticultural Society. ‘This society was es- 
tablished in 1812, chiefly through the exertions of W. Grierson, Esq. now 
the secretary. It was liberally supported by the proprietors and gardeners 
of the two counties from which it takes its name; and the number of 
members soon amounted to upwards of a hundred. We have been 
favoured with a copy of the “ rules and regulations” of the society, with 
the list of “ prizes” for 1826, and an explanatory letter by Mr. Grierson, 
who has also obligingly offered to send accounts of the general meetings, 
which are held every September, for insertion in the Gardener’s Magazine. 

The society consists of three descriptions of members; ordinary, ex- 
traordinary, and honorary. The ordinary consist of practical gardeners, 
who pay a subscription of five shillings annually; the extraordinary, of pro- 
prietors and amateurs, who pay 10s. 6d. annually; the honorary members 
must not be connected with the counties of Dumfries or Galloway. 
The two first classes of members, on admisson, pay one year’s subscription, 
“as entry money towards a fund for purchasing useful practicai books for 
the accommodation of the members.” 

“The object of the institution is to promote and improve the cultivation 
of the best kinds of fruits, of the most choice sorts of flowers, and of 
those vegetables which are most useful in the kitchen. For this purpose, 
acertain number of prize medals, or sums of money, shall be bestowed. 
annually on such operative gardeners, or others, as shall be declared by 
proper judges to be entitled to the preference. Useful communications 
shall also be received, either from amateurs, or from practical gardeners, on 
any topic connected with horticulture, though not drawn up on the sug- 
gestion of the society; and such communications shall be read at the 
quarterly meetings.” 

The objects for which prizes are to be given, are annually printed upon 
half sheets of paper, which may thus be sent by post as single letters to all 
the members. Forty-eight prizes are offered tor 1826. The value of the 
prizes for each article is to be determined at the time of ascertaining its 
comparative merits. 

“ The result of our labours,” Mr. Grierson observes in his letter, “ has 
amply proved the great advantage of the society, by the introduction of 
many new kinds of flowers, fruits, and vegetables, unknown in this quarter 
before, and by the improved culture of those which we had. Besides, it 
has roused the spirit of the gardeners to excel in their profession. The 
premiums and medals we have distributed have proved a great excitement. 
Should the patronage and fostering influence with which the society has 
been sustained, for several years, be continued, the greatest benefits, and 
most agreeable resultsto the country at large, will be the consequence; 
and the subject requires only to be duly considered, to convince every 
gentleman in the country who is possessed of a garden, that itis his own 
advantage to support such societies. 

“ As the best methods of extending the benefits of the institution, we 
have had in contemplation the formation and establishment of an experi- 
mental garden, which would soon be arranged, were adequate funds pro- 
cured, Already considerable subscriptions have been made, and we cal- 
culate that a small subscription from each member would complete the 
work. The London Society have been very generous in promoting our 
undertaking, and we feel grateful for ther kind attention; indeed their 
plan is most liberal. That society may be considered as a fountain, from 
which all the local societies will be supplied, and eventually the whole 
country stocked with every thing rare and valuable.” 

_ This society has two good features, which, as far as we know, are pecu- 
liar to it, that of appointing a chaplain, and of admitting ladies to be 


Qo 


218 Caledonian Horticultural Society. 


present at their meetings. On the beneficial influence of the latter prac- 
tice, Mr. Grierson received a congratulatory letter from the late Sir Joseph 
Banks, of which he has sent usa copy, and which we may probably at some 
future time lay before our readers. With respect to a garden, our opinion 
is, if the society can support one in good style, it would be a very desir- 
able thing as a public ornament; but we do not believe that any provincial 
seciety’s garden will ever be of the least use; they are very fertile subjects 
of. quarrels, and by these, and their expence, very likely to cause the dis- 
solution of the societies that may set them a going. 

Edinburgh Botanic Garden. We were in some hopes of being able to 
give a plan and description of this garden in our present number, similar 
to what we have given in No.1. of that of the Caledonian Horticultura. 
Society; but having written to Professor Graham on the subject, he informs 
us (of date Feb. sth.) that he had “ very long ago promised an account of 
the garden to the Edinburgh Philosophical Journal.”? We wait, therefore, 
till it makes its appearance in that work. We consider the plans of all 
public gardens as of great importance, by their influence on the general 
taste of the country. The plan of the late Botanic Garden at Edinburgh 
was excellent, so far as it went; and not less so appears to be that of the 
Caledonian Society’s Garden lately laid out. We have no fears of the 
new Botanic Garden falling short, either of the old one, or of the Botanic 
Garden of Glasgow, the last a master piece of its kind 


SOI EAE 


Art. VI. Caledonian Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Caledonian Horticultural Society. The venerable and much respected 
president of this society has sent us his discourse delivered at the annual 
election meeting, on the first of December last, upon awarding to Mr. 
John Hay, garden-architect, their annual premium for the most interesting 
communication received during the year 1825. It seems that this society, 
* imitating the laudable example of the Royal Society of London,” bestow 
annually a testimony of their approbation on the author of the most in- 
teresting communication transmitted to them during the course of the 
year. ‘This year the medal was conferred upon Mr. John Hay, Garden- 
Architect, “for the admirable plans of conservatories, vineries, pineries, 
and other buildings, presented by him.” These plans, the president anti- 
cipates, will soon be published in the Society’s Memoirs. ‘The president 
anticipates great improvement to the horticulture of Scotland, from the 
establishment of the society’s garden, and he reverts, as in former dis- 
courses, to the numerous “ benefits which may result from a regius profes- 
sorship of horticulture in the University of Edinburgh. ‘The object in view. 
by such a professorship, is not the instruction of operative gardeners, but 
of men of taste and literature; to convert one of the most useful of arts 
into one of the most interesting of the sciences; to give a taste for horti- 
culture to the students of philosophy, of medicine, and of law; but par- 
ticularly to the students of divinity. 


“« By infusing a spirit for gardening, which I hold to be the most innocent, the most inter- 
esting, and the most healthful of all rural amusements, into those who are hereafter to be 
faithful pastors in the worship of the ALmiaury for the inhabitants of Scotland, there can be no 
doubt, that the glebe and garden attached to every minister’s imanse in Scotland might soon 
exhibit to the parishoners an example worthy of imitation; and would, in a very short period, 
have very considerable influence in improving the gardens in every parish in this kingdom. To 
promote this desirable object, if such ‘a professorship shall be established by royal authority, I 
think it ought to be one of the conditions imposed by the Crown, that the lectures delivered by 
the Professor of Horticulture, like those by the Professor of Divinity, should be open, without 
any fee, to every one regularly matriculated as a Student of Divinity. By this means, I have no 
doubt that horticulture, both as an art and science, would soon be successfully cultivated in 
every corner in Scotland.. And I have as little doubt, that this would contribute yery materially 
both to the health and happiness of ministers of the Gospel in the Church of Scotland, and to 
the improvement of the kingdom. : 

“* Without pretending to the gift of prophecy ; on this subject, I can venture to predict, from 
personal experience, and from being a zealous amateur of Horticulture, that very impertant good 


Caledonian Horticultural Society. 219 


consequences will result both to the Scottish Clergy, and to ‘the better cultivation of every 
parish in Scotland. 

«If it shall be the will of Heaven to protract my life till a Regius Professorship of Horti- 
culture be established in the University of Edinburgh, I shall have lived to see the accomplish. 
ment of my most sanguine wishes for the advancement of Horticulture in Scotland. Horti- 
culture, asa relaxation from a laborious profession, has, during the whole course of a long 
life, been my favourite amusement ; aud I am firmly convinced, that it has contributed not a 
little to my health, as weli as to my happiness. I shall only add, itis my carnest wish that, 
with others, and especially with those now here assembled, it may be productive of the same 
good effects,”—(Disc. &c. p- 12.) 


Such are the ardent wishes of this benevolent man, and which, whether 
a professorship of horticulture be established or not, will to a certain ex- 
tent be realized with the increase of general knowledge, and the great 
stimulus given by societies and publications, aided by times like the present, 
of peace ‘and leisure. 

It is gratifying to us to have received a letter (dated Feb. 18.) from so 
amiable a horticulturist, in which, speaking of the Gardener’s Magazine, he 
says, “I highly applaud the plan of the work, and have no doubt that I 
shall derive much satisfaction and much happiness from being one of its 
constant readers.” 

The quarterly meeting of the society was held on the 2d of March, 
when ten new members were admitted, and various premiums awarded. 
Among the latter was one for a fine pencilled variety of mushroom, of ex- 
quisite flavour, to Mr. W. Reid, gardener to Sir John Majoribanks, of 
Lees, Bart. That for the finest camellias, was given to Mr. John Barcly, 

gardener to Professor Dunbar, at Rose ‘Park. Another premiun: was 
awarded to Mr. Cunningham, of the Comley-bank Nursery, for a seedling 
camellia raised by him. The prize for ericas was obtained by Mr. Macnab, 
of the Botanic Garden. Areport was read, detailing the advanced state 
of the Horticultural Garden, and recognizing the appointment of Mr. James 
Barnet to be head gardener, “a person of great experience in his business, 
having been in the Botanic Garden at Edinburgh, the Royal Gardens at 
Kew, ‘and having held a situation in the garden of the London Horticultural 
Society.” 

Some animadversions on the management of the Caledonian Society 
have appeared in the Scotsman newspaper, for Feb.15th., which were 
ably answered in the same paper of i*eb.25th and March 1st. Such 
controversy will rather be favourable to the cause of the society than 
otherwise. Sound criticism is useful, by leading to improvement ; false 
criticism or ill natured remarks at least put people on their guard. It 
‘seems two minor societies have sprung up in Edinburgh, of which the 
following accounts have been sentus. ‘They cannot be considered rivals of 
‘the creat society; but rather as little offsets —let them all work their way 
for their own gratification and the general good.. 

The Edinburgh Amateur Florist Society. In the summer of 1822, this 
society was established by some distinguished amateurs, to promote the 
cultivation of florist’s flowers, and mutually to improve their taste by shows 
and competitions. It is constituted on the model of the Lanczshire 
auricula clubs. No professional gardener is admissible, of consequence 
the members are but few, and the number of prizes awarded limited. 
Some very choice collections of auriculas, tulips, and ranunculuses are in 
possession of the members. 

The Edinburgh New Horticultural Society was stituted last’ summer 
by a number of practical gardeners, resident in the neighbourhood: of 
Edinburgh. There appeared to be room for something of the kind. The 
Caledonian Gardener's Lodge, along with its other functions, is a benefit 
society; and as it was established long before the late excellent researches 
into the principles of such institutions, which were made at the instance of 
the Highland Society of Scotland (See High. Soc. Trais. vol. vi. p.271.), 
nearly all its funds are absorbed by the relief of the sick, and the widows 
of deceased members. Hence the prizes for horticultural productions 

@) 


290 Calls at the Nurseries. 


have become very limited, and as we have heard, it is intended to give 
them up altogether. The Caledonian Horticultural Society, on the other 
hand, appeared to some to deal too much in the theoretical speculations of 
amateurs; and as it is chiefly composed of the latter, and its business con- 
_ ducted by men of science, it has failed to act as a centre of attraction and 
intercourse to the operatives of the profession. For these reasons, real or 
imaginary, the new society has been formed, and consists entirely of pro- 
fessional men. They meet once a month, and endeavour to profit by 
conversation. As the members are still few, the revenue of the society 
is small, but sufficient for the number of prizes which it is found necessary 
to give. The society collects its experience in the form of notes, and 
this, along with other discoveries or inventions of the members, it contem- 
plates publishing as memoirs. 

Popular Botanical Lectures, for all classes, including ladies and family 
parties, are advertized to be delivered by Professor Graham ; and similar 
lectures on chemistry, by Professor Hope; a gratifying proot of the 
increasing popularity of these sciences in Edinburgh. 


Art. VII. Calls at the Nurseries, and other Suburban Gardens. 


Lee’s Nursery, Feb. 16. —'The demand for trees and plants seems to be 
as brisk as it has been for several years 


hy : 
me Vc Anis past. The late frosts seem to have 
: oN done little injury ; a number of plants 
g px against Mr. Lee’s houseare stillmatted 
t Sy fe f 


G 


A 
Sans 
Ny 


up, but, as we before mentioned, a 
double white Camellia as a bush, and 
Zip single red one so imperfectly, as 
eo) “eq to be almost a bush, have escaped 
yZowithout any protection whatever. 
== Araucaria lanceolata, without pro- 
tection, has been nearly killed; but 
nothing has suffered in the green- 
houses, or conservatories. In one of 
the stoves are sonie of the finest 
bread-fruit plants which we have ever 
‘seen; one is nearly six feet high. In 
the same stove are several newly-im- 
ported palms and bulbs. Inthe heath- 
house a great number of species are 
in flower; but in this nursery, as 
every where else, the most conspicu- 
ous plant in flower is the Primula 
es sinensis ( fig. 41.) 
Mackay’s Nursery, Clapton, Feb. 2, 1826.—Vhere are some fine plants 
now in flower, or approaching that state in this rising nursery, Among a 
collection of forty different sorts of Camellia may be mentioned the gloriosa, 
« double red variety of the Waratah kind, raised from seed by the late 
Mr. Ross. ‘There are considerably above 500 species of Ericze, of which 
about 60 are now in bloom, including E. vernix coccinea, H. scabriuscula 
and E. biflora of Andrews. Berberis fascicularis, a very rare plant, else 
where noticed, is planted out in a propagating pit, among Camellias, and 
‘coming finely into bloom. Mr. Mackay has succeeded in rooting several 
layers, Against the back wall of this pit, isa magnificent plant of Brachy- 
sema latifolium, covered with flower buds. Lechinaultia formosa is in full 
bloom, and Prostranthera violacea, an elegant plant from New Holland, 


Calls at the Nurseries. 221 


Lobelia senecioides, a species a good deal like L. coronopifolia, also from 
New Holland, and the following species, sent home by Mr. Baxter, a col- 
lector who has been in Australasia on Mr.Mackay’s account for several years, 
are coming into flower :— Kennedia coccinea of Ventenat ;:a beautiful new 
species of Hovea, a little in the way of H. celsii, but much less in all its 
parts; a species of Boronia, with entire lanceolate leaves, and a decandrous 
papilionaceous plant, abundantly covered with fine carmine flowers, and 
which has not yet received a name. There is a propagating shelf or ele- 
vated bed of sand for striking cuttings in one of the hot-houses of this nur- 
sery, which weli deserves the attention of cultivators, and which we shall 
on a future occasion describe at length. 

In the show-house of the Belgrave Nursery, King’s-road, belonging to 
the same individual, is a good collection of common showy things in 
bloom, for the decoration of apartments; and in the hot-house many hybrid 
amyryllidea and orchidz in bloom. 

Colville’s Nursery, Feb. 25.— Here is the finest show of forced flowers 
about town; including rhododendrons, azalias, purple magnolias, kalmias, 
lilacs, roses, double peaches, cherries, dwarf almonds, and other shrubs ; 
and hyacinths, narcissi, and other bulbs, with pinks, violets, and a variety 
of herbaceous plants. The new conservatory and hot-house look re- 
narkably well at this season, and the latter is set off to great advantage by 
the forced articles, which occupy the front shelf, and are distributed along 
the curb ef the bed of earth. In the hot-house a great variety of hybrid 
amyryllis are in full flower, and in both departments numerous plants of 
different species coming rapidly into that state. As many greenhouse plants 
are now producing young wood, the operation of putting in cuttings, which, 
in so extensive a concern as this, is never entirely at a stand, goes on with 
increased rapidity at this season. 

Knight’s Nursery, King’s Road, Feb. 25.— Mr. Knight has recently 
completed the erection of a large conservatory or Camellia-house, with a 
curvilinear iron roof, which we shall, on a future occasion, describe and 
figure. This house forms the termination to an extensive range of show- 
houses, which differ from all others about London, im having side walls of 
brickwork, higher than the glass roof, and a broad gutter over the pathway 
in the centre; the general effect of the arrangement on entering from the 
road may be compared to that of looking through the tube of a telescope: 
« greater apparent depth could not easily be produced, or more plants kept 
in a healthy state, at so small an expence of transparent roof. Mr. Knight 
judiciously adapts the sort of plants to this arrangement; - keeping there 
chiefly camellias, oranges, tree rhododendrons, and similar evergreen 
thick-leaved plants, which, when not in a growing state, require less 
light and air than most others. The new plant habitation which 
forms the termination of this range, is glazed with green glass, the 
manufacture of which is now so much improved, that in this case it appears 
very little inferior to the quality known as crown glass, while the price is 
not much more than one-half. ‘This to nursery-men must be an object of 
considerable importance. 

The principal thing which struck us m Mr. Knight’s exotic collection, 
was the excellent state of his heaths, diosmas, and other similar Cape plants. 
They were of a vivid green, and in luxuriant growth. ‘This he attributed 
chiefly to the excellence of the air, which is doubtless better on the south- 
west side of London than on any other side, and to the use of rain water. 
For five or six years after he took this nursery he used well-water, which, 
though pronounced from analysis to be excellent for every domestic pur- 
pose, he yet found to be injurious to plants, and especially to heaths. He 
has since erected cisterns, and made arrangements to collect the whole of 
the water that falls on his numerous roofs; he waters his plants in pots with 
nothing else, and since he did so, he thinks he has found a decided su- 
periority in their thriving. He remarked that though he grew heaths with 


299 , Calls at the Nurseries. 


the greatest facility at Clapton, yet he could not grow them here ina satis- 
factory manner till he used rain water. The peat soil used at both places 
was from the same common; but the water at Clapton was in part froma 
well, and in part from collecting cisterns. Wemust therefore suppose that 
the well water of Clapton is of a quality more suitable to vegetation than 
the well water where Mr. Knight now resides. 

Mr. Knight has the largest saleable plant of the Magnolia conspicua in 
the neighbourhood of London. He purchased it two years ago when on a 
continental tour, and keeps it in a large box in his conservatory. In plant- 
ing anew pleasure ground, such a tree as this, the Magnolia grandifloras at 
Malcolm’s, the Rhododendrons at Thomson’s, and the Arbutuses at New- 
cross, would effect wonders. 

Last autumn Mr. Knight had planted some hundreds of the acorns of 
evergreen oaks in small pots, and placed them ima sheltered situation; the 
fortnight’s severe frost in January, however, killed every one of them 
before they had begun to germinate. This is what we could hardly have 
supposed would have taken place; the acorns in a dry state, buried among 
decayed leaves under the parent tree, might probably have escaped, while 
those in earth, and saturated with moisture, suffered. There is a very fine 
large plant of Chimonanthus fragrans in this nursery, which has been in 
flower since the beginning of December. 

Kew Gardens, Feb. 27.— The plants in the hot-houses are looking 

better than they have done at this season for several years past. The 
young man who showed us through, attributed the circumstance to the air 
having been kept in a more moist state, by dashing abundance of water on 
the paths and flues in days of sun-shine. This applies, of course, more par- 
ticularly to stove plants. There were not many plants in flower ; the prin- 
cipal were different sorts of aloes in the dry stove, and various species of 
acacia in the green-houses. The following plants, in bloom, were scattered 
here and there: — Diosma, several sorts, Epacris pungens and grandi- 
flora, Sparmannia africana, Templetonia retusa, Peeonia sarcacola, Enkian- 
thus nova species, various camellias, heaths, &c. 
_ Not many half hardy plants in the open air have been killed by the late 
frosts; a plant of Araucaria excelsa, too large to be any longer kept within 
doors, wasin autumn turned out in 2 corner, and matted over, but has died. 
Its trunk at the base is at least four inches across. Aurucaria imbricata, 
protected by its moveable tabernacle on the spot where it has stood nearly 
ten years, looks as well as usual at this season. The matson the south side 
are taken off in the day time, and only put on in the most severe evenings. 
A thrash has built her nest in the axil of one of the principal branches. 
Eucalyptus against a south wall is killed, as in che Horticultural Society’s 
garden ; also a species of rhus, and one or two Botany Bay plants; even 
some common broad-leaved myrtles are severely injured. Chimonanthus 
fragrans, and Clematis calycina, had been magnificently covered with flowers, 
during December and January. A large Magnolia conspicua, hitherto kept 
in a box, but now planted out, and the full grown tree of Magnolia acu- 
minata, give abundant promise of flowers. 

In the kitchen-garden at Kew there is nothing worth looking at but the 
forcing-house. The standard appie trees are covered with canker, crowded 
with spray like old birch-trees, produce no fruit, and allo wnothing to grow 
under them. The trees on the walls are better. 

The pine plants are the best we have ever seen at Kew, and on a footing 
with those at other gardens. One planted in a glass pot to show the progress 
of the roots, looked yellow. The vines, in different periods of advancement, 
are ail in a good state. In one house the berries are set. Some cherries, in 
pots, are also set. We observed an abundance of ants creeping over the 
blossoms on some chery-trees, and we have little doubt they contributed in 
a certain extent to fecundation. There were ample crops of ripe strawber- 

¥ 


Efints for Experiments. 223 


ries and kidney-beans fit for gathering. The whole of the department did 
great credit to Mr. Nowland, its curator. : 

A new public entrance has lately been made to these gardens ; itis perhaps 
more convenient for the public, as its door may be approached with a car- 
riage, but the walk, preceeding along a narrow crooked passage, has nothing 
of the magnificence, variety, and beauty of the portion of pleasure ground 
which bursts on the view, on entering the old door-way. We took a short 
walk in the pleasure ground, which even at this season of the year is de- 
lightful; perhaps, indeed, its effects are more intensely felt now than at any 
other season. The repose, the consecration to man, the various kinds of 
shrubs and trees, and their no less varied disposition on the ground, are 
felt at all seasons ; but it is in winter, and early in spring, that we have the 
full enjoyment of the shelter, the dry gravel walk, the fine shining leaved 
evergreens, some of them, as the holly, laden with berries, and others, as 
the laurels, beginning to protrude their blossoms; the ever-verdant turf, the 
budding of deciduous plants, the springing up of bulbs the notes of the 
thrush, and the balmy freshness of the air. 


Art. VIII. Ireland. 


Mulberry Trees. Arrived in Cork harbour the Hendrica, H. Martens, 
from Cette, in the Gulf of Lyons, South of France, laden with 26,000 
white mulberry trees, the property of the British, Irish, and Colonial Silk 
Company, value 10,000/., and which are at present discharging for the 
purpose of being planted in this country. They are consigned to George 
Foot, Esq., agent to the company in this city, and there are already 180 
men employed in planting them, under the direction of Mr. Young, 
an intelligent Scotch gentleman, at Mitchelstown, in this county, for which 
purpose ten acres of the Earl of Kingston’s estate have been appropriated. 
The remainder are to be planted in the neighbourhood of Mallow, and at 
Kenmare, in the county of Kerry, where the necessary preparations have 
been also made. There are also landing from the Petrell, of and from 
London, forty bundles of the same description of tree, which had been 
imported from Italy, and ten cases and three bundles of plants, per the 
London, from London, for similar purposes; and a native of Italy has 
arrived in the latter vessel to superintend the progress of this great work, 
and to give the necessary instructions in the care of the worm.—(Cork 
South. Rep.) 


Art. IX. Hints for Experiments. 


To take Impressions of Plants. Spread a specimen between two leaves 
of paper and dry it in the usual manner; then wash over one side with !n- 
dian ink ; place the plant so prepared again between two sheets of paper, the 
lower of which is somewhat moist, as in common printing, and place the 
leaf, with some paper above and below it, in a common press. The result 
will be a figure of the plant not unlike an aquatint engraving. f 

Retaining good Varieties of Apples in the Country. A correspondent in 
the Mechanic’s Magazine makes a very easy matter of what Mr. Knight and 
other physiologists consider very difficult, ifnot impossible. It is no wonder, 
he says, that the finest apples have deyenerated, because “ every successive 
grafting is a new pejoration of the fruit engrafted.”’ To retain good apples 
in the country, “without the pains of graiting,” he gives the following di- 
rections; on which we would observe, that as he mentions only “good fruits,” 
and not “ any particular variety of fruit,’ he may probably be correct; or, 


224. Hints for Experiments 


at any rate, uuder that form of words he evades the question of perpetu- 
ating the peculiar qualities of a variety; say, for instance, of the golden pippin. 

“In every perfectly ripe apple there will be found one, and sometimes 
two, round seeds ; the others will have one or more flatted sides. The round 
ones will produce the improved fruit from which they are taken; and those 
with flatted sides will produce the fruit of the crab upon which the graft 
was inserted. It requires not a long time to ascertain the difference; for if 
a circle is drawn in rich ground, and the flatted-sided seeds planted therein, 
and the round seeds in the centre, the variation of the quality will be dis- 
covered in two or three years; the first will throw out the leaves of the 
crab ; and the latter the leaves of an improved tree, distinguished in shape, 
fibre, and a lanuginous appearance; and in due time the fruit of each will 
put every thing beyond a doubt. 

“Tt is to be observed, moreover, that the seeds of crabs (being originals) 
are mostly, if not altogether, round.” (Mech. Mag. Jan. 21.) 

We should be happy to hear the result of a few trials. Take a bud from 
the seedling the first summer, insert it in the extremity of a branch of an old 
tree, and it will probably blossom the third spring. Thus three or at most 
four years will suffice to prove this theory true or false. 

Yeast asa Manure. It is not generally known that this is one of the 
most powerful manures in existence. Some experiments have been tried 
with grass-plots and different culinary vegetables, from which it appears, 
that a very small quantity of yeast, after it has become putrid and useless to 
the brewer or baker, will effect wonders when mixed with water and applied 
to plants as liquid manure. The only danger seems to be in making it too 
rich. We would recommend such of our readers as have leisure and oppor- 
tunity to try it on pines, vines, the Brassica family, especially cauliflowers, the 
potatoe, as a pickle for wheat and other seeds, and for watering new-sown 
turnips and similar oleaginous seeds. é 

Substitute for Ringing. As oil is well known to indurate the bark of 
trees and prevent its swelling, we would suggest the idea of trying oiling a 
broad zone of bark, as a substitute for ringing. 

To preserve Broccoli in a growing slate from being injured by the frost. Put 
the plants in an artificial coppice wood, by laying some bean or pea haulm 
or other litter on the ground among their stems, to imitate withered grass, 
and then striking the whole plot as full as it will stick of old pea stakes, to 
imitate the bushes. 

Coal Ashes. Tt does not seem to be very generally known among gardeners 
that cinders, whether large or small, are injurious to the roots of many, if 
not of most vegetables. A few days ago, in shifting a few roots of chrysan- 
themums which we had received from ———, we observed some of the 
plants looking much less healthy than others. On turning the unhealthy 
plants out of the pots, we found that, instead of potsherds, a large handful of 
coal cinders had been used for draining them. On turning out the healthy 
plants, potsherds had been employed as usual, and the roots were matted 
about them, while no roots had penetrated among the cinders. On direct- 
ing the attention of a horticultural friend to the circumstance, he related 
the case of a large garden in Scotland which had been inanured or coated over 
with coal ashes from a neighbouring town for two years in succession; which 
ashes, though impregnated with the usual animal and vegetable matters, dis- 
olayed their deleterious effects both on fruit trees and culinary vegetabies, 
not less thanin the chrysanthemum pots. The gardener, finding his fruit 
trees not to thrive so well as he expected, but attributing it to a different 
cause, took up a number of them, and formed a sub-stratum of ashes, in order 
to lay them, as he said, dry and comfortable. The trees got worse, and were 
as taken up and the ashes removed ; but such were the deleterious effects 
of the ashes already worked inte the soil, that this garden, which previously 
was, and now is, one of the most productive in Scotland, was two or three 


Self- Education of Gardeners. 295 


years before even moderate crops could be raised. These facts may be 
relied on, and they are of very considerable importance both tothe gardener 
and the agronome. It is but doing the former class justice to state, that 
most of them use ashes only for the purpose of making a flooring for set- 
ting out plants in pots; such a flooring being found inimical both to worms 
and the roots of plants; and therefore preventing the former from getting 
into the pots, and the latter, at least of most sorts, from gettingout of them. 
Still we should be glad of information on the subject of cinders or coal 
ashes as a manure or as a poison. 

Mildew on Peaches and Nectarines. An experienced gardener informs us, 
that he finds those peaches most subject to mildew which have no glands 
at the base of their leaves; and those least subject to miidew which have 
globose glands. The first class, according to Mr Geo. Lindley’s arrange- 
ment, contains sixty sorts, including the Newington, Nobless, Royal George, 
and Red Magdalen Peaches, and the Newington, Elruge, and Princess Royal 
Nectarines. ‘The second class contains several sorts, including the Early 
Galande, Marlborough, Kensington, Bellegarde, the Teton de Venus, and the 
Pitmaston Orange Nectarine. Mr. Lindley’s third class of Peaches and 
Nectarines have reniform glands, and these are said not to be so subject to 
the mildew as the sorts with glandless leaves, but rather more so than those 
with globose glands. This class contains numerous sorts, and includes the 
Apricot Peach, Nutmeg, Incomparable, and Chancellor Peaches; and the 
Roman, Fairchilds, Aromatic, and Violet Nectarines. If the above theory 
as to mildew be correct, it will afford an important guide to gardeners who 
are in possession of Mr. Lindley’s arrangement, and which they will find 
in our forthcoming Hortus Britannicus. 


Art. X. Self-Education of Gardeners. . 

The spirit of education is the prevailing characteristic of the present times. 
Not to speak of the extraordinary efforts making in Britain for the educa- 
tion of the lower classes, and the better education of those who are, or onght 
to be, above them; this spirit of instruction is proportionably abroad all 
over the Continent, and with the exception of China, perhaps: throughout 
the world. In France the Lancasterian system has been .developed by 
Lasteyrie, and would have been generally introduced, but for the opposition 
of the clergy. So extraordinary was the spirit of education in Spain, that 
the late Cortes predetermined by law, that after a certain number of years, 
no person whatever should be competent to undertake a public situation, 
however low, and whether local or general, unless he could read, write, and 
cast accounts. Unfortunately the re-establishment of the ancient:religion 
has put an end to that law for the present ; but it will be remembered at,a 
future period. In Germany, Denmark, and Sweden, parochial ‘schools, 
much on the same plan as those of Scotland, have been in existence since 
the time of the reformation. There, as here, this system has recently been 
improved on, and infant schools for children from two to five years, and 
working schools for girls and lads from five years and upwards, have been 
established in various places. In these last, every description of domestic 
employment is taught to girls; and of country work, the commoner me- 
chanical trades, and, to a certain extent, military exercise, to boys. Some 
account of the schools of this description in the kingdom of Hanover will 
be found in Hodgkins’ Travels in Germany (8vo. 1819), and in the Encyclo- 
peedia of Agriculture (§ 581.): and the Swiss schools of the same description 
will be found described in Sismondi’s Switzerland. Even in Russia the Lan- 
casterian system has been introduced; and the subject has not been lost 
sight of by the Greeks and Ionians, notwithstanding their present troubles. 
In North America education is as much prized as in Britain, or Germany : 


226 Biography. 


in South America it promises to be equally so. Among the West India 
Islands education is now becoming general, even to the children of slaves; 
and the President Boyer, of the republic of Hayti, has declared to his black 
subjects, in a manifesto published some years ago, that “ education and 
agriculture constitute the chief strength of states.” 

Under these circumstances, it is not our intention to invite or court the 
young gardener to cultivate his intellectual faculties, but rather to point out 
to him the absolute necessity of doing so, if he wishes to maintain any 
higher station than that of a country labourer. If he remains content with 
the elementary knowledge he has acquired, or as gardener lads acquire 
under ordinary circumstances, he will assuredly never advance beyond the 
condition of a working gardener, and may not improbably sink into that of 
a nurseryman’s labourer of all work. To get a good place asa gentleman’s 
gardener, it is not sufficient now-a-days to know the culture of kitchen- 
crops and fruits; the man who gets eighty or a hundred pounds a-year 
must know plants well, and be able to converse on botany as a science. 
He must not only be a good practical botanist, but possess some knowledge 
of chemistry, mechanics, and even of the principles of taste. Instead of 
being barely able to write and guess at the spelling of words, he will never 
be admitted, even as a candidate for a situation, unless he writes 2 good 
hand, spells and points correctly, and can compose what is called a good 
letter. Drawing, at least of ground-pians, is indispensible; and for a first- 
rate situation, sketching landscape, and seme knowledge of French, equally 
so. A knowledge of the rudiments of Latin and of Greek, so far as to be 
able to find out the meaning of nouns in a Greco-English dictionary, is pre= 
included in some knowledge of scientific botany. Every gardener, in short, 

“who can now be considered worthy of the name, must understand the prin- 

ciples of English composition, and be capable at the desire of his master, or 
of his own proper motion, to write a paper on his art, fit to be introduced. 
in the Horticultural Society’s Transactions, or in the Gardener’s Magazine. 
‘The gardener who has no ambition to appear as a writer in one or both of 
these works, must be a heartless mass of subsoil. 
* Viewing the subject of education as of so much importance to gardeners, 
we shall from time to time recur to it, more particularly with a view to 
enable young men who are already engaged in thew prefession, to work 
out their own scholastic education, in so far as that may have been imperfect, 
in the hours devoted to rest and refreshment. 

But previously to entering on thesubject of young men instructing them- 
selves in science, we shall in our next number peint out what we consider 
the best mode by which a working gardener who is too old, or whose mind 
is not sufficiently pliable to derive instruction from books, may improve his 
circumstances, and prevent him from falling back in the latter period of life 
into the condition of a jobbing gardener ; the miseries of which have been so 
feelingly depicted in our last number, by our worthy correspondent, Mr. 
M‘Naughton. 


Art. XI. Biography. 


| Andrew Thouin, ( fig. 42.) born in Paris, 1745, devoted himself from his 

; infancy tothe study of botany, and merited being chosen to replace Guettard 
in the garden of plants, of which his father was head gardener. In 1786 he 

was admitted a Member of the Academy of Sciences. It was by his care 
that the garden was improved, the system of cultivation perfected, and more 
certain methods used for preserving and propagating the numerous plants 
with which every day this valuable depot was enriched. It was from his 


solicitation that a professorship of practical cultivation was established,and . 


the first public lecture on the subject given in France. M. Thouin was 


Biography. B27 


chosen by government, pro- 
{fessor to the Normale School, 
established in 1794, and was 
sent about the same time 
into Holland and Italy to ex- 
amine the agriculture ofthese 
countries. He was com- 
missioned to add to the 
Garden of Plants fruits of the 
best quality; and we find in 
them not only a great variety 
of fruit trees, but also plants 
used for the food of men and 
animals, and those used in the 
different arts. The school 
which he founded contains 
examples of pruned trees, 
grafts, inclosures, and hedges 
of different kinds. The pub- 
lic regrets that M. Thouin 
has not published the Lessons 
of Agriculture which he ar- 
ranged in the form of tables, 
and there specified the know- 
ledge acquired by profound 
theory, and daily practice. 
A member of the institution 
of the central Society of 
Agricuiture, &c. he has pub- 
lished in the Memoirs of that 
Society, in the Annals of the 
Museum, and in the Diction- SYNE OE A aN 
ary of Natural History, several memoirs and articles. He wrote a great 
part of the Agricultural Dictionary; of the Methodical Encyclopedia; and 
also the 11th and 12th vols. of Rozier’s Course of Agriculture. "The 27%b 
of October this respectable man finished an honourable career, every period 
of which is marked by studies useful to the progress of agriculture. The 
29th of the same month his mortal remains were deposited in the burying 
ground of Pere la Chaise. Deputations from the Academy, the Society of 
Agriculture, and other learned bodies, assisted at the ceremony. ‘The 
Baron Cuvier delivered a speech in the name of that learned assembly. 
We shall extract some passages of it, which display the virtues and merits 
of a man so justly regretted : — 

“Gentlemen, it is modesty and science, united to the most amiable 
simplicity, we lose to day in the good old man whose remains this tomb is 
about to cover. This coffin, surrounded at once by the members of an 
illustrious body, and the humble workmen of a great establishment, equally 
watered with their tears, is that of a man, who belongs to both families, 
and by which he was equally beloved and revered. Born in the king’s 
garden, succeeding two or three of those patriarchal generations whose . 
labours for nearly a century embellished and improved this magnificent, 
depot of the riches of nature, M. Thouin there found in some respects‘aa — 
hereditary domain; considered it his country, and placed his existence there. | 
Those celebrated: men Buffon.and Jussieu thought themselves honored 
to see him seated beside them, and learned Europe no longer omitted to 
sound his fame. From that time his modest career became better, known, 
and ‘few men have displayed a more useful influence. Become the centre 
of a correspondence which extended to all parts of the world, he did not 


228 Obituary. 


cease for half a century to encourage amongst the different countries the 
exchange of their vegetable riches. Productions from the most distant 
parts of the East Indies, received, valued, and multiplied by him, are sent to 
Increase and enrich our American islands ; America in her turn sent to our 
Indian colonies the most valuable things she possesses. How many fine trees 
which now shade us, would have remained unknown to us without the 
indefatigable activity which animated him! Where is now, not only in 
France, but in Europe, and in the two hemispheres, the park or garden 
which does not boast of shrubs and flowers indebted to his zeal and 
industry? Where is the orchard where he has not distributed some well 
flavoured fruits 2? Such services during a nation’s infancy would make its 
authors be worshipped; they will always at least be sure to excite the 
gratitude of the friends of humanity, who know, that by multiplying a useful 
plant, we multiply men, and that it is a more certain and durable property 
for the country that receives it, than the best written laws; because, like 
them, the combinations of men are transitory; the gifts of nature once 
acquired by a nation are inexhaustible.” 

M. Cordier, in the Museum of Natural History, also delivered an eloquent 
speech, prompted by the esteem and friendship which he bore this respect- 
able old man. } 

A list of Mr. Thouin’s writings will be found in the Bulletin Universel 
des Sciences Agricoles, tome 1. His library was sold by auction in Paris, in 
the beginning of last March. 


Art. XII. Obituary. 


Died at. Knowlesley Hall, near Prescot, Mr. Richard Keyte Yarnall, 
twenty-nine years and nine months head gardener there. Mr. Yarnall was 
born at Ebrington, in Gloucestershire, on the 20th Sept. 1752; he was 
educated at the free school of Campden, and served his apprenticeship to | 
his uncle, then gardener at Coombe Abbey, Warwickshire. He then went 
as a journeyman to Hampton Court Gardens, at that time under the cele- 
brated Landscape Gardener, Mr. Brown. At the age of twenty-two he 
was engaged as gardener to the Earl of Waldegrave, at Navestock, Essex, 
where he lived sixteen years, till his Lordship’s death. He next was 
engaged by the Earl of Shrewsbury, for the gardens at Heythorpe, in 
Oxfordshire ; but being solicited by the Countess of Waldegrave to return 
to Navestock, he did so, and remained till the death of young Lord Wal- 
degrave. After this event, her Ladyship entirely gave up the gardens, and 
Mr. Yarnall, in May,1796, became gardener to the Earl of Derby, at 
Knowlesley, where he remained till he died, on the 19th of February last, 
in his seventy-fourth year. 
~~ As’a man, Mr. Yarnall was respected by his fellow servants, and his 
employers; and as a gardener he gave the highest satisfaction. We first 
called at Knowlesley Gardens, in July, 1805, and then observed in a 
eucumber-house, heated by steam, the plants trained like vines on a trellis. 
close under the glass, and a large crop of fruit hanging from them. This 
house, the mode of heating by steam, and of training the plants close to 
the glass, was the invention of Mr. Butler, Mr. Yarna!l’s predecessor. 
We again called at Knowlesley, in Feb. 1819, on the day of the burial 
of George the Third, and saw the same cucumber-house in full bearing 
as before, and also twenty-one cucumbers cut from it that morning, to 
be packed up and sent to the family at the Oaks in Kent. If we are 
correct in our recollection, Mr. Yarnall then told us, that there had 
been a crop of cucumbers hanging in that house, without any interruption 


Queries and Answers to Queries. 229 


farther than that of a month or two in summer, when they were abundant 
in the frames, for twenty-five years. 

The greatest humanity and kindness was shown to Mr. Yarnall, in his last 
illness, by his noble mistress and master ; who rather than hurt the worthy 
man’s feelings by superannuating him, or appointing his successor during 
his life-time, chose to submit to various privations, and irregularities of 
management, the inevitable consequence of the want of an active super- 
intendant. 

Mr. Yarnall had a son, who was gardener to Lord Vernon, at Sudbury, 
in Derbyshire, who died some years ago, and left a family of young 
daughters. 

Died on the 13th of March, at his house in Hackney, Conrad Lod- 
diges, Esq. in his eighty-eighth year, the founder of the celebrated nursery 
of that place, now carried on by his sons. 

Died on the 14th inst. at his apartments in the British Museum, Dr. 
Nocehden, author of various interesting papers in the Horticultural Trans- 
actions. He is said to have been principally instrumental in inducing 
Mr. Harrison, of Wortley Hall, to publish his valuable Treatise on Fruit 
Trees. 


Art. XIII. Queries and Answers to Queries. 


i. S. would be glad of information respecting the best mode of breeding 
gold and silver fish; and he asks if it be true that the spawn when newly 
spawned, if collected and dried, will in that state preserve its vivifying 
principle so as to be kept some time, or sent to a distance ? 

Ribes is desirous of knowing if any hybrids have been originated between 
the black and red currant, or between the raspberry or bramble. 

“A Subscriber,” who dates from Dawn in Kent, enquires if pines can be 
raised in the same manner as melons, and if so, how so. ‘To this we answer, 
that pines may be grown in large melon frames by the heat of dung alone, 
as well as in hot-houses by tan and fire flues. The “ process” will be found 
in the Encyclopedia of Gardening, Part 5. Book 1. Chap. 7. Sect.i.; and 
more at large in The different Modes of cultivating the Pine Apple from its 
Jirst Introduction to Europe, to the Improvements of T. A. Knight, Esq. in 
1822. 1 vol. 8vo. ¢ ve 

“ A young Gardener,’ who has heard it asserted, “that many of the 
apples in France are grafted on willow stocks, in consequence of which the 
fruit 1s woolly, and flat in flavour,” may rest assured that the whole is non- 
sense ; for reasons which he will find detailed in our Encyclopedia, Part 2. 
Book 4. Chap. 3. Sect. 2. Subsect. 4. 

“<A Constant Reader” is informed that the yellow rose will srow and 
bloom very well upon the Rosa Arvensis; which is common in every hedge. 

Ifno stools are already prepared, take the buds out to the fields, and 
insert them on any shoots, whether strong or weak, or long.or short... One 
long shoot may have a bud put in at every 10 or 12inches. Tn antumn cut 
the shoots off, bring them home and make cuttings of them, taking care that) 
there is a yellow bud in each cutting. They will strike freely, and make 
neat little plants. The same thing may be done with every other species 
and variety of rose, and hence a complete collection, budded on rosa 
arvensis, might be had for the labour of budding, provided buds could be had 
of the different kinds. Rosa sempervirens and Doniana strike almost as 
freely by cuttings as rosa arvensis. f f 

“ Amateur’ is informed that the Maclura aurantiaca is to be had both 
in Paris and London, at from thirty shillings to two guineas a plant, layers, 
or budded on the mulberry. In compliance with his wishes, we shall en- 
deavour, in next number, to give a figure and description of this new hardy 
fruit, which promises to be a most valuable addition to the dessert. 

Vor. I. No. 2. R 


230 


PATA TV: 


ADVERTISEMENTS CONNECT 


ED WITH GARDENING AND 


RURAL AFFAIRS. 


Wa 
fe) 


if HT yi 


WILMOT 


of Isleworth, 


i) 


NEW STRAWBERRIES. 


BISHOP’S ORANGE (fig. 43). This fine 
New, Strawberry is the largest belonging to that 
class called Scarlet ; but possesses a deep orange 
colour, whence its name. It will frequently 
attain four inches and upwards in circumfer- 
ence; but that which particularly recommends 
this strawberry to notice is, that it is a most 
abundant bearer, and aliowed by all who have 
eaten of it, to surpass in flavour any strawberry 
yet known. Also the Early Globe, an ex- 
traordinary bearer, and the Cinnamon, a fine 
fruit, both of which are large and early, being 
only a day or two later than the Virginian, and, 
in general, twice its size. Plants of the above 
are now selling by Messrs.» Cormack, Son, and 
S'nclair, 53. Regent Street; Messrs. Buchannan 
and Oldroyd, Camberwell; and by Robert 
Bishop, New Scone, near Perth, at 20s. per 
score. When more than three score are pur- 
chased, 30 per cent, discount is allowed. 


Middlesex, has raised a new and very su- 
perior Strawberry, named Wilmot’s Superb 
( fig.44). Thesize of the fruit is from six to eight 
inches in circumference; weight from one to 
two ounces, far exceeding any other yariety in 


beauty, appearance, and flavour ever raised in 
England. a 

Orders received by Mr. Grange, Fruiterer, . 
Covent Garden; and by J. Wilmot, Isleworth. 


fh), WEIR respectfully informs » 
” the PUBLIC, that every Description of - 
AGRICULTURAL: IMPLEMENTS, M 
CHINES, and, in particular, all those men- 
tioned in Mr. Loudon’s Encyclopedia of-Agri- 
culture, and in the Gardener’s Magazine, are 
now for inspection, at 369 Oxford Street, where 
may be had M‘Intosh’s New VERGE CUT- 
TER, and Improved ORANGE TUB, de- 
scribed in No. If. of the Magazine. The price 
of the former, with Two Sets of Irons, is 15s, ; 
that of the Orange Tub depends upon its Size. ; 


WANTS a Situation as GAR- 


DENER, a respectable young Man, 
(age 28,) who perfectly understands the Ma- 
nagement of the Kitchen Garden, Forcing 
and Framing; also the Propagation and Cul- 
ture of Stove, Conservatory, and Green-house 
Plants ; Flower-Garden, and Forcing of Flow- 
ers, &c. Can have a good character from the 
Nobleman he last lived with two years. — 
Letters addressed to. H. J. No. 2. Vauxhall 
Walk, Vauxhali, will be immediately attended 
| to. — The Advertiser would prefer the country 
| to the neighbourhood of London. 


= SS 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
JULY, 1826. 


PART I. 
ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Art. I. Sketches of the Botanical, Horticultural, Agronomical 
and Rural Circumstances of Spain. By Don Martano La 
Gasca, Professor of Botany in the University of Madrid. 


G PAIN enjoys a prodigious diversity of climates, which 
_enables her to propagate, at small expense, the greater 
part of the most precious vegetable productions found in 
every quarter of the globe. This is clearly manifested by the 
numerous. plants from hot countries which thrive in her 
gardens, and which were introduced by private individuals, 
from laudable curiosity, or enlightened patriotism. Those 
which are the production of northern regions are also found 
growing spontaneously both on the summits of her high moun- 
tains and on their sloping sides. 
These fine dispositions of nature would, doubtless, have been 
turned to their advantage by the inhabitants, had not a depraved 
legislation been purposely throwing, for the space of more than 
three hundred years, insurmountable obstacles in the way of their 
efforts. A great many enlightened and patriotic Spaniards have 
repeatedly, though fruitlessly, endeavoured to overcome them, 
receiving as a reward for their benevolent zeal, sad and bitter 
disappomtments, persecutions, dungeons, the galleys, expatria- 
tion, and even death. Such has been the result of their toils, and 
such will it ever be, in countries where, as in my unfortunate 
native land, there is no liberty to permit the diffusion of useful 
knowledge through the medium of the press, — where only 
Vou. I. No. 3. s 


236 Botanic Gardens of Spain. 


those objects are encouraged which are not only useless but 
hurtful to the national welfare, — where no guarantee is to 
be had for the security of individuals and their property, — 
and where they cannot call the soil their own, or cultivate it 
according to their pleasure or free will. 

The reader will deduce evident proofs of these truths from 
the perusal of the following pages. 


BOTANIC GARDENS. 


THE only botanical gardens existing at the present period 
in Spain are, that of Madrid, which is denominated the Royal 
Botanical Garden; those belonging to the four schools of 
Pharmacy established at Madrid, Seville, Barcelona, and 
Santiago ; that of the College of Surgery at Cadiz; that of the 
university of Valencia; and that belonging to the Board of 
Commerce of Barcelona, devoted principally to agronomical 
botany. In 1818 the government gave orders for six more 

ardens, also for the study of agronomical botany, to be esta- 
blished at Burgos, Seville, Toledo, Valencia, Badajoz, and 
Leon; but though professors were nominated to them all, it 
was only in Seville, ‘Toledo, and Valencia that schools had 
actually been opened, even in 1820. ‘The botanical garden 
of Carthagena, being within reach of cannon-shot from that city, 
was destroyed in 1808, and has never been restored. ‘The 
horrors of war also put an end to that which had existed 
at Zaragoza ever since 1796, and which was under the im- 
mediate protection of the enlightened society called “ The 
Friends of the Country,” who formerly contributed so effec- 
tually to diffuse throughout the nation the most useful know- 
ledge by means of their writings, and by the establishment 
of the academy of Belles Lettres, and schools of public 
economy, mathematics, chemistry, botany, and agriculture,— 
by the erection of a cabinet of natural history, —by the annual 
distribution of prizes,—by their labours to perfect the methods o. 
teaching the first rudiments of learning ; and, lastly, by the esta- 
blishment of the Monte Pio * for husbandmen. In the year 
1822, the same patriotic body solicited assistance from the 
government to re-establish their ancient garden, proposing to 
make new improvements in it; but I am ignorant whether 
they obtained it. The botanical garden belonging to the 
School of Physicians of Seville, founded by Philip V. at the 
suggestion of his first physician, the celebrated Don José 


* Establishments where they lend money on cattle and implements. 
exacting but a very trifling interest. 


Botanic Garden of Madrid. 237 


Cervi, has also ceased to exist: the same fate has attended 
the botanico-agronomical garden of Valladolid, which owed — 
its foundation, in 1803, chiefly to the illustrious bishop Don 
Juan Antonio Hernandez de Larrea, a model of learning 
and patriotism, and which was supported by the members of 
the Economical Society of the same city till the invasion of 
Napoleon. 

The botanical garden of Madrid, founded in 1755, and 
placed in the royal country seat, called El Soto de Migas 
Calientes, on the left banks of the river Manzanares, and at 
about a mile and a half from the city, was transferred in 1788 to 
the place where it now stands within the walls of Madrid. It is 
bounded on the west by the magnificent promenade of the 
Prado, from which it is separated only by an elegant iron 
railmg; on the south by that of Atocha, on the east by the 
garden of the Buen Retiro, and on the north by that of the 
monks of St. Gerome, and by the sumptuous building of the 
Museum of Natural History, erected by the wise and munificent 
Charles III., and which is now the Museum of Pictures; but 
another very handsome building is to be erected for natural 
history in the Prado, so that in this respect it will hereafter be 
one of the most splendid museums in Europe. (Link’s Travels 
in Portugal, and through France and Spain, p. 103.) Its figure 
is an irregular polygon; it has two principal gates, of an ex- 
cellent style of architecture, as entrances for the public, and 
four other gates for the private service of the garden. Its 
extent is twenty-eight fanegadas * (about forty-two acres), and 
is divided into two unequal parts. The largest of these has 
about eighteen fanegadas ; it is divided from east to west into 
two equal parts by a magnificent walk of about sixty feet 
broad, beginning at the principal gate of the Prado, and ter- 
minating at a handsome portico that leads to the lecturing 
hall; and from north to south inte three plots, two of which, 
the smallest, are appropriated to the use of the practical 
school of botany, and to contain such plants and _ per- 
ennials as have not been examined. Each of these plots 
is subdivided into four equal quarters, and these into as 
many other divisions, except the two upper ones, which have 
only three: in the centre of each there is a small fountain, 
whose waters are brought through subterraneous pipes from 
the two principal reservoirs intended for irrigation, which 
have their origin in a source near the Plaza de Toros, at 


- 


* A fanega is a measure containing about a hundred weight; and a fane- 
gada, the extent of arable land which takes a fanega of seed, about 14 acre. 
s 2 


238 Botanic Garden of Madrid. 


about a mile from the garden, and from two draw-wells 
situated at its western extremity. Each division is subdi- 
vided by walks a foot and a half broad into two hundred 
and eighty beds, two feet square, and half a foot deep, in 
each of which only one species of plant is cultivated. These 
divisions are enclosed by fences formed of common rose-trees 
(rosa gallica, Lin.); and between these and the beds. there is a 
broad walk, with a border about three feet wide, in which 
different ornamental plants, inost of them liliaceous, are sym- 
metrically arranged at equal distances, in masses. ‘There is exter- 
nally, between the said fences of rose-trees and the walks of the 
garden, a border or platband about four feet broad, bounded on 
the outside by an edge of myrtle or box, about ten inches high, 
where large umbrageous trees, generally exotics, are planted, 
about eighteen feet distant from each other, the shade of which 
preserves in summer the plants of the school from the exces- 
sive heat of the sun, and without which they would inevitably 
perish. ‘The spaces left between tree and tree are occupied 
by shrubs or dwarf-trees, which may be pruned; as the 
yew-tree, Viburnum tinus, Prunus laurocerasus, Rosmarinus 
officinalis, Ruscus aculeatus, &c.; or by those naturally of 
a fine shape, as the Robinia hispida and umbraculifera, 
Medicago arborea, Cytisus austriacus and laburnum, Spartium 
junceum, &c.; and by various herbaceous plants of orna- 
ment, such as iris, wall-flowers, columbines, different kinds of 
candy-tuft or rock-cress, dahlias, pseonies, common day-lily, 
and yellow day-lily, ranunculus, anemones, upright larkspurs, 
a great many varieties of common gillyflowers, speedwells, 
primroses, sun-flowers, star-worts, wild marygolds, and various 
others. ‘The trunks of some robust trees are clothed with 
creeping shrubs, as ivy, virgin’s bower, virginian silk-tree, 
trumpet-flower, Coccoloba sagittifolia, which flowers and 
fruits there in the open air; two kinds of sarsaparilla, 
Menispermum canadense, and some others. The divisions of 
the two plots appropriated to perennial and biennial plants 
of the practical school are divided into twelve parts, each con- 
taining twenty-four beds, disposed as we have already men- 
tioned, and may hold about eight thousand species, a number 
which will not easily be collected there, considering the climate 
of Madrid, which is excessively cold in winter, and very hot 
in summer. It was projected that each bed should have an 
iron ticket, with the number of the bed, and the systematic 
name of the plant it contained, in Spanish; but this plan could 
not be carried into execution, owing principally to the want of 
funds. Consequently we were obliged to confine our tickets 


Botanic Garden of Madrid. 239 


to the spot where each class, order, and genus began, that the 
number of the beds might not be jost, and might correspond 
with that of the systematic catalogue in manuscript, of which 
there are two copies. This catalogue was written by the author 
of this sketch in 1815, having before him the printed 
catalogues of the best gardens of Europe; and is arranged ac- 
cording to the sexual system, suppressing, however, the fol- 
lowing classes — dodecandria, monoecia, dioecia, and poly- 
gamia. 

The upper plot is appropriated principally to the cultivation of 
ornamental plants, and its walks to the reception during the sum- 
mer of those plants which, from the middle of October to the 
middle of April or beginning of May, require to be kept in the 
green-houses. In consequence of this, though it is also divided 
into four quarters, the divisions are more numerous, and there- 
fore smaller, and their interior division is changed, at least, 
once every two years, forming various figures in them, some 
regular, and others irregular. The transverse walks are 
considerably less wide than those of the two lower plots, and 
are all planted with umbrageous trees and fruit-trees alter- 
nately, whose shade in summer protects the flower-pots which 
are placed in the walks. These divisions are enclosed by 
fences made of rose-trees of various descriptions; as cabbage 
rose, red China rose, white rose, and others; while the circular 
plots of the cressings are crowned with a border in the manner 
of a garland, formed either of lavender, thyme, cat’s thyme, 
sage, savory, sea-thrift, woolly-leaved mouse-ear, or others, and 
have in ‘the centre a tree remarkable either for its handsome 
top or for its flowers. At each of their extremities there is a 
small wood planted irregularly, in the English fashion; and 
at the upper side of the division are two green-houses, 
170 feet long by 30 wide, running from north to south, and 
presenting a handsome vista when seen from the promenade 
of the Prado. They are joined by the portico which we have 
said terminates the principal walk, and by two small par- 
terres, situated between the extremities of each, and a vine 
bower. Each parterre has a little fountain, which furnishes 
water for all the squares in its side. ‘The flower-pots are 
watered with watering-pots made of tin, which are filled at a 
beautiful fountain occupying the centre of a circular plot, 
which is almost in the middle of the large one, and at the 
junction of the four principal walks. In each of these two 
plots there are four stone seats, placed under the shade of the 
tufted trees which surround them, and which invite to repose 
those visitors who in the morning and evening of spring 

s 3 


240 Botanic Garden of Madrid. 


and summer are attracted thither through pleasure or 
curiosity. 

All round the part of the garden which we have just been 
describing there is a walk, twenty-five feet broad, most of 
which, in summer, is shaded by the trees planted along 
the borders; the whole of the upper plot is embowered 
by a beautiful trellis, supported with iron arches, and 
formed by about twenty different varieties of vines. At 
the western extremity of this plot there is a green-house, 
facing the south, which contains about 4500 flower- 
pots. It is the best, or at least in better condition than the 
rest, in that establishment. A sloping bank, planted with 
resinous trees, among which there is the cedar of Lebanon, 
separates it to the south from the other part of the garden, 
of which we shall presently treat; and between the trellis- 
work and the wall that separates it from the Buen-Retiro, to 
the east, rises in the centre a building, in which there is a hall 
for delivering lectures, a seed-room, and another apartment, 
similar to the latter, which was formerly used as a library. 
On the left there is a very handsome basin, constructed in 
1802, and another much older and half ruined, as well as one 
of the draw-wells above mentioned ; and on the right another 
old basin, also in very bad condition, and a plot in which 
they prepare the different soils. 

Near the principal gate, at the western extremity of the 
garden, is the other draw-well, and a house which was for- 
merly inhabited by the chief gardener, and which now con- 
tains all the implements belonging to the botanical expedition 
of Santa Fé de Bogota. 

In 1802, a stove was constructed for the plants of 
tropical countries ; but during the war of independence 
it was so much neglected, that, in 1814, it was useless, 
and has never since been repaired. In the same year, 
1802, one of the two green-houses situated at the eastern 
extremity, and facing the west, was fitted up as a library 
and herbarium; but both this building and its corresponding 
one were some years ago declared by the architect in a 
ruinous condition, and, notwithstanding the repeated appli- 
cations to government for their re-construction, they continue 
threatening to bury beneath their ruins every thing which they 
contain. 

The part which we have hitherto described is what prin- 
cipally constitutes the botanical garden of Madrid; it is 
much resorted to, and forms one of the most delightful spots of 
the capital and its environs. Its broad and straight walks, into 


Botanic Garden of Madrid. 241 


most of which the rays of the sun can hardly penetrate; its situa- 
tion on a gentle slope, which permits the whole to be seen at 
a glance; the great variety of trees, shrubs, and plants with 
which its walks are lined, each bearing a ticket in Spanish with 
its systematic name; the creeping plants which twine round 
many of the trees ; the multitude of flowers which in the spring 
display their brilliant hues, and fill the air with their aromatic 
perfumes; the gentle murmur of the waters that run through 
the trenches, or are poured forth by the fountains ; — all these, 
united to the harmonious songs of a variety of singing-birds, 
which have fixed their abode in the thickets, give to the bo- 
tanical garden of Madrid a decided superiority over the other 
pleasure-grounds of that city, where the climate during the 
summer is excessively hot. 

The garden is open to the public from the last day of the 
month of May to the last day of October, and from half-past 
four in the afternoon till dusk. All persons decently dressed 
are admitted, and it is very much frequented by the higher 
classes, and the royal family. In the morning, those only are 
admitted who are well known, and those who have a ticket of 
admission from one of the professors. The foreign ambas- 
sadors may go in with their families at any hour they please, 
and at all seasons, as well as any traveller who arrives at the 
capital, and who, if he be himself a professor or an amateur, 
is attended in his visit by one of the professors of the esta- 
blishment, who presents him with a specimen of every living 
plant he may wish for, and, in case of the professor’s absence, 
he is attended by one of the most intelligent gardeners. The 
students who choose to repair there are admitted at all hours. 
The other smaller division of the garden, of which 
mention has been made, is situated to the south-east, and 
may also be divided into upper and lower parts. ‘The 
latter is a prolongation of the inferior plot, extending over 
four or five fanegadas of ground, and separated from the 
rest of the garden by a fence formed of the common shrubs, 
hare’s-ear, white-thorn, common privet, syringa, and com- 
mon lilac. Two thirds of it form a single division, 
which is irregularly divided into smaller ones by means of 
winding walks, in the style of those in the English gardens. 
It is used also for rearing fruit trees, and as a depot for the 
residue of plants which serve for the demonstrations, and for 
the medicinal herbs, which are given gratis to the public. 
The remaining third part, on which formerly stood the lec- 
turing-hall, is used now as a kitchen-garden, in which are 
cultivated in small portions various kinds of vegetables, such 

Ss 4 


24.2 Botanic Garden of Madrid. 


as lettuces, cauliflowers, French beans, potatoes, onions, 
love-apples, egg-plants, cucumbers, melons, pumpkins, aspa- 
ragus, &c. and some fruit-trees. This department is ter- 
minated by a yard, in which manure is collected, and where 
there is a house inhabited by the contractor, who furnishes 
the manure required for the garden, and who draws the 
water from the draw-wells. | 

The upper part, which isbounded by the Buen Retiro, and 
with which it communicates by a gate, forms a small acclivity, 
from which a great part of the city and its environs are seen. 
Its most elevated point, which cannot be watered, is planted 
with about thirty different varieties of vine, which are in bad 
condition. On the southern slope of this acclivity, which may 
be watered, there is about half a fanegada of ground used for 
the cultivation -of different varieties of strawberries, garden- 
hyacinths, narcissus, and tulips, and of some shrubs for form- 

‘ing fences; about two fanegadas and a half are employed for 
rearing in small quantities the cerealia, and another portion, 
about a fanegada, for the cultivation of the Arundo donax, 
whose reeds are used in various ways in the garden. Lastly, 
another fanegada is employed as a nursery for trees affording 
shade, and for some different varieties of olive-trees, and other 
fruit trees which are cultivated in the Peninsula. <A walk 
some twelve feet broad surrounds this part of the garden, and 
has on both sides, in that part where the vineyard is, a pali- - 
sade, which is covered over by various varieties of vines cul- 
tivated for the table; and with respect to the kitchen-gar- 
den, it has on its borders fruit trees, with gooseberry-trees 
between. 

The seeds of all plants, with the exception of the cerealia, 
and of some trees and shrubs of Europe and North America, 
are sown in flower-pots, and in the open air, towards the 
end of January or beginning of February, and this continues 
till April, and. sometimes till May, and even June. Generally 
the seeds gathered in the garden itself are the first that are 
sown, beginning with those families which can best endure 
the severity of the season. From the year 1816, the umbelli- 
ferous plants, cisuneze, gramineze, perennials, and several 
others that will live in the open air, have been sown in 
autumn; it being observed that their germination was more 
certain than if they were sown in the spring, and that 
annual umbelliferous plants so managed grow and fruit 
much bette1, the generality of those sown in spring be- 
ing destroyed by the first heats, without permitting their 
fruit to ripen, and frequently even before they were in 


Botanic Garden of Madrid. 243 


bloom. The cerealia are sown generally in the months 
of October and November, and it is certain, that the 
plants sown at this season are more productive than those 
which are sown at any other period of the year. We have, — 
however, observed that several kinds of wheat, barley, and 
rye, which have hitherto been considered as suitable to 
winter, have, when sown in February, and even at the begin- 
ning of March, yielded enough to compensate handsomely 
the labours of the husbandman. The millet (sorghum 
vulgare) and maize cannot be sown until the frosts and 
white frosts are over; that is, till the month of April or 
May; and to insure a crop of seed, they must absolutely be 
irrigated. . 

The pruning of umbrageous trees takes place in the 
fine days of January and February, as also that of fruit- 
trees, and of vines. ‘The roots of many herbaceous, peren- 
nial, and shrubby plants of the valley of Mexico endure, 
in the open air, the severity of the winter at Madrid, where 
it often freezes sharply, particularly in the months of Decem- 
ber and January, and they yield fresh shoots in the spring; 
these plants are the Dahlias, Stevize, Salvia mexicana, melis- 
sodora, chameedryoides, angustifolia, dolistachya (Lag. MS.), 
canescens, Lag. polystachya, fulgens, Zaluzania triloba, Anthe- 
mis globosa, different species of Solanum, Physalis, Helianthus, 
Coreopsis, ard the Oxybaphus cervantesi (Lag. MS.), Mirabi- 
lis jalapa, dichotoma, and longiflora, Boerhaavia arborescens, 
Viola. verticillata, Ort. Ceanothus czeruleus, Acacia acantho- 
carpa, strombulifera, ceratonia, flexuosa, and others; while the 
Lavandula dentata, multifida, abrotanoides, and many other 
spontaneous plants of the south of Spain, perish. ‘The Cha- 
meoerops humilis bears the open air, and the Ceratonia sili- 
qua lives when it is sheltered from the north by a wall; it 
blooms, but it never bears fruit. 

The whole garden, except the hillock planted with vines, 
is watered at the roots; but previous to the year 1802, 
the beds of the divisions, which were differently laid out, 
were watered with a garden engine, with the water of 
the fountains. | Water becomes very scarce in the hot 
months, and even the draw-wells become dried up, which 
occasions many plants to perish in the months of July 
and August; while in winter there are many that die for 
“want of stoves, and on account of the bad condition of the 
greeh-houses. Notwithstanding these serious inconveniences, 
I succeeded, in 1822, in keeping there about 6000 plants, a 
number very superior to that of the collection previously. 


244. Botanic Garden of Madrid. 


Among that number, the graminez, of which there were 
six hundred species, excelled the rest, without, however, 
reckoning the magnificent collection of cerealia, the families 
of compound flowers, umbelliferze, cruciferae, cistineze, mal- 
vacze, papilionaceze, solanaceze, and the genus silene. ‘There 
is alsoa good collection of succulent plants, particularly of the 
genus of cactus and aloe. 

This garden has a considerable library, in which very few 
books published before the year 1804 are wanting. In that 
year the illustrious Cavanilles dying, his library, which had 
been bought from him by government during his life-time, was 
added to that of the establishment; but from that period up 
to 1814 it hardly increased, except by the addition of some 
books on belles lettres, bought from the heirs of Cavanilles 
for ten thousand reals (100/. sterling). From 1814 till 1823 
several applications were made to government; but the ac- 
quisitions made during that period hardly amount in value 
to 500/.,when 3000/. would have barely sufficed to buy the 
‘many expensive works on botany and agriculture that were 


published both in Europe and America, without the perusal 


of which it is not easy to publish works in which repetitions 
of what has already been said should not occur. 

This garden possesses one of the most copious herbariums in 
Europe, which I calculate amounts to about 30,000 species. 
The formation of it began in the autumn of 18061, with the 
collection made by the celebrated Don Luis Nee in his voyage 
round the world with Malespina, and with what he himself col- 
lected before and after that voyage, in Spain, all which amounted 
to about 12,000 species. It was afterwards enriched with those 
sent by several Spanish corresponding members residing in 
different parts of Europe and America, with the collection 
made in the island of Cuba by the celebrated Don Baltasar 
Boldo, with those which I myself collected in 1803 during my 
journey to the Asturias, with those afterwards collected in the 


Andalusias by Don José Demetrio Rodriguez, and Don Simon 


- de Roxas Clemente, and in Santander by Don Bernabe Salcedo, 
with those published in the Flora of Peru and Chili by Ruiz and 


Pavon, and finally with all the herbarium of Cavanilles,who pos- - 


sessed a great collection of plants, presented to him by the most 
celebrated botanists of Europe of his time, and which I believe 
amounted to more than 18,000 species. The illustrious Cava- 
nilles bequeathed his herbarium to the botanical garden, under 
the condition of my receiving a specimen of every duplicate 
plant in his collection. In the garden of Madrid there also 
exists the extensive collection of the celebrated Don José 


' iow ke . 


Botanic Garden of Madrid. 245 


Celestino Mutis, part of which was made in New Spain by 
Sesse and Mocino; and that which Don Tadeo Haenke 
formed in South America, the whole of which, by previous 
orders of government, is to be added to the herbarium of 
the Flora of Peru and Chili, when this work shall have been 
published, as well as that which remains of the Flora of Mexico. 
The herbarium was moreover increased yearly with the new or 
rare plants which were reared in the garden itself, and with 
those sent by the various correspondents of the establishment. 

The garden of Madrid also possesses the magnificent col- 
lection of drawings from the botanical expedition of Santa Fé 
de Bogota, which, during the period of forty years, was under 
the care of the celebrated Don José Celestino Mutis, and 
which, if my recollection does not fail me, consisted of 6969 
drawings, half of which are in black, and the other half 
coloured, but all executed in the most superior style ; there are 
also several manuscripts by Mutis, and a few by the unfor- 
tunate Don José de Caldas; a great number of specimens of 
the woods which are found in the kingdom of New Granada, 
now Columbia, and some boxes of fruits, seeds, barks, resins, 
and other vegetable productions of the same country. 

It also possesses some manuscripts by Don Luis Nee, and 
some hundreds of drawings of plants, which he caused to be 
made during his voyages with Malespina. With respect to the 
manuscripts and drawings belonging to the Flora of Mexico, 
of Sesse and Mogino, there are only four folio volumes of MS., 
and about 150 of the drawings which were made at the be- 
ginning of the expedition. Of the others, which the cele- 
brated Decandolle saw, and caused to be copied, nothing is 
known. . 

The MS. of the Flora of the Island of Cuba, written by the 
deceased Don .Baltasar Boldo, was lost during the war of inde- 
pendence, and there remains only one volume of the drawings 
of plants executed by the deceased Gino, which belonged 


‘ to the same expedition. 


Lastly, there are 100 drawings of the first volume of the 
Hortus Matritensis of Cavanilles, the plates of which were 
begun in the year 1804, and the incomplete MS. which he 
left of that work. 

_ The garden of Madrid had, in 1823, a professor and a vice- 
professor of botany, another of agronomical botany, a librarian, 
a treasurer, a chief gardener with two assistants, eleven per- 
manent gardeners, divided into three classes, three or four 
supernumerary youths, and a porter. Besides these, there 
were sixteen or seventeen daily labourers. A contractor fur- 


246 Botanic Garden of Madrid. 


nished the necessary manure, and kept in the summer months 
the draw-wells at work for 11,000 reals (110/. sterling), and 
inhabited the house and yard which adjoin the garden. 

In 1805, the building which existed from the foundation of 
the garden, at its southern extremity, and which was used as a 
lecture-room and a habitation for the professors and persons 
employed in the branch of cultivation, was pulled down as 
ruinous. 

Its annual allowance is 190,000 reals (1,500/. sterling), 
which sum being never sufficient to cover the expenses, 
recourse was had to other funds to pay the salaries of the 
professors, which were never fixed, and to defray the ex- 
penses incurred in repairs, &c. Of the above sum, 150,000 
reals was paid from the funds of the Board of Pharmacy, and 
the remaining 40,000 reals required to complete the salaries 
from the public treasury. 

I could never ascertain what sum the government spent in the 
construction of this botanical garden; but I remember having 
heard an individual of the board of physicians say, that that 
board alone had furnished about five millions of reals (50,000/. 
sterling), and I have no doubt that it cost more. 

From the end of 1816 the direction of the establishment was 
in the hands of the professors of botany and of agriculture, of 
the librarian, and of the chief gardener, in direct communica- 
tion with the junta called that of the Protection of the Mu- 
seum of Natural Sciences. 

In 1823, botany and agriculture were taught there. |The term 
of the former began on the Ist day of April, and ended on the 
last day of October, three public lectures being given in the 
week, the vice-professor repeating the corresponding demon- 
strations of the last lesson explained by the professor. In the 
months of July and August are the vacations, and during 
this period the garden is open to all the students who choose to 
pursue their studies, from six in the morning till dusk. _ They 
are furnished with all the necessary books, and with whatever 
plants they may wish to examine, having moreover permis- 
sion to consult either the professor or the vice-professor, 
who are on the spot examining the plants of the present 
sowing, and those which had not been examined in the 
year before. During this period, too, the students exercise 
themselves in the art of describing plants, and in writing 
memoirs on particular points previously fixed by the professor. 
Besides this, the scholars, attended by the professor or vice- 
professor, are also in the habit of going out of Madrid to 
botanize in its vicinity, in some of the days of June, July, Sep- 
tember, and October. 


Botanic Garden of Madrid. 247 


_ The class of agriculture, or rather of agronomical botany, 
founded in 1807, begins in the month of February, and closes 
on the 30th October, three lessons being there given also in the 
week. Although this school was established in 1807, the in- 
struction lasted only from 1810 till 1811, under the direction 
of Professor Don Esteban Boutelou, who died in 1812. At 
iny suggestion, the school was opened again in- 1815, under 
the direction of Professor Don Antonio Santalio de Arias y 
Costa. In the same year the school of medical botany was 
opened under the direction of Dr. Don Vicente Soriano; it also 
was founded in 1807, and re-established, like the former, at the 
above-mentioned period. The garden has not the requisite 
extent to execute at large agronomical operations, neither 
does it possess any great collection of agricultural machinery ; 
nor is there collected any considerable number of species 
and varieties of fruit-trees, olives, vines, and other plants culti- 
vated in Spain, except the cerealia, the collection of which, 
doubtless, is very superior to that of any garden in Europe ; 
nor is there any stabling for horses or cattle; but the students 
are present at all the operations which are executed in the 
garden, and have a little practice in pruning some of the 
vines, and performing grafting. This class, as well as the 
garden, would have increased considerably if the constitutionai 
system had continued; the Cortes having bestowed for that 
purpose the contiguous garden of the Geronimites, which has 
about forty fanegadas of land, with a great abundance of water 
for irrigation, and a part of the building belonging also to that 
convent. ~ 

During the two hottest months there are also vacations in 
this class, and the students then employ themselves in writing 
memoirs on those points previously fixed by the professor 
who is at the head of it. 

In order to be able to obtain a diploma for the course or 
term, the student must first submit to the examination which 
takes place at the end of each term. 

The information diffused through the means of the botanical 
garden of Madrid is not limited to the students who attend the 
various schools there established. The professors keep up a 
literary intercourse with the corresponding members of that 
establishment who reside in various parts of the empire; 
they answer the questions which any of them, were he even in 
the remotest corner of the Spanish dominions, may choose to put ; 
and they send them plants, &c., and receive things from them, 
for which purpose all letters, packets, and even boxes of plants 
and seeds, either from any part of Spain, or from abroad, 
are received free of postage. Besides this, the professors of 


248 Botanic Garden of Madrid. 


the garden have, from the time of its foundation, been fre- 
quently consulted by the government in every branch relating 
to the science of botany, and these consultations have occupied 
much of their precious time. 

The garden of Madrid was in open correspondence with the 
principal gardens of Europe and America, excepting Eng- 
land, where their only correspondent was Aylmer Bourke 
Lambert, Esq., to whom they were in the habit of sending an- 
nually some thousands of seeds, and who, in his turn, sent 
considerable numbers of those which were asked of him. The 
garden made great acquisitions by the annual collections sent 
from the island of Cuba by their corresponding member Don 
Mariano Espinosa, to whom the government, in consequence, 
assigned 400/. sterling a year, from 1805; by those sent from 
Mexico by Don Vicente Cervantes; and by those sent by the 
different members and amateurs throughout the Peninsula. 
It is in consequence of this that the greatest part of the plants 
of Cuba, Mexico, and South America, reared in the botanical 
gardens of Europe for the last forty years, were communicated 
to them through the botanical garden of Madrid; such are, 
among many others, the cobea, stevias, many and very beautiful 
salvise, mimosze, solanacese, malvaceee, compositiflorze, grami- 
neg, onagrarie, and leguminose. 

The schools of this establishment have been always very well 
attended, both by students and hearers; the establishment 
itself enjoyed great reputation in the nation; its professors 
having diffused much valuable information, not only in the 
way above hinted, but by the numerous and estimable writings 
which, during the seventy-one years it existed, have been pub- 
lished, and which amount to more than eighty volumes, in- 
cluding translations. It is to this establishment that the 
information, not only in botanical matters, but in those of 
agriculture, and the taste introduced into Spain for the other 
branches of natural sciences, is owing. 

The garden of Madrid furnishes the public gratis with all 
the medicinal plants which it possesses, and with great quanti- 
ties of seeds of umbrageous trees, ornamental plants, as well as 
those of pasturage, and other useful ones, both in husbandry and 
pharmacy ; so that three men are continually employed in 
preparing boxes of seeds to send as presents to private indivi- 
duals, and to foreign gardens in the way of exchange. 

Such is, briefly, the state in which the botanical garden of 
Madrid was in 1823, when the liberty of Spain was overturned, 
and with it the hope of seeing established the botanical 
gardens decreed by the Cortes in 1821, in their regulations for 
public instruction, in which a garden was ordered to be 


Three New Keeping Pears. 249 


erected in every capital of a province throughout the Spanish 
monarchy; six others in as many schools of the medical 
sciences, and three great rural establishments, or practical 
schools of agriculture, in Spain, and various others inthe Cana- 
ries, Cuba, and other parts of the Spanish ultra-marine posses- 
sions. The hope of seeing the results of so many voyages made 
for promoting natural history, at so extraordinary an expense, 
by the Spanish government, published, has also vanished. A 
fugitive and a proscript from my native country from the 
moment liberty perished there, and deprived of the power 
of communicating with those unprejudiced individuals who 
alone could inform me of the truth, I am totally ignorant 
how matters stand there. However, through persons worthy 
of credit lately arrived from Spain, I am informed that 
the School of Agriculture has been closed, because its pro- 
fessor Arias, who was at the head of it, was declared zmpuri- 
Jfiable; that in 1824 the School of Botany remained closed, 
that in 1825 it opened only in the month of July; that during 
the period of the two last years the cultivation of the garden has 
been greatly neglected, as the labourers were not paid; that the 
librarian, Don Simon de Roxas Clemente, has been banished 
from Madrid in consequence of his having been a deputy of 
the Cortes in the years 1820 and 1821; that several of the 
oldest and most skilful gardeners of the establishment have been 
dismissed from it, in consequence of having belonged to the 
Nationai Militia of Madrid, and having followed the constitu- 
tional government to Cadiz; and, lastly, that in the summer 
of 1825 the said librarian was recalled. 


(To be continued.) 


Art. II. Notices of three New Keeping Pears. By Joun 
Brappick, Esq. F.H.S. 


Dear Sir, 

Ir was my intention to have sent you some fine specimens of 
new keeping pears to be noticed in the next number of the 
Gardener’s Magazine ; but I am greatly disappointed, owing to 
the room in which I am at present constrained to keep my 
fruit not being proof against rats and mice. The only sorts 
which those vermin have left me I now send you, as follows: 

Surpasse St. Germain; the large brown and green peat 
(fig. 45. a, full size). {An excellent fruit, the best of the three. 
- Con.) 

Grande Bretagne Dorée; the middle-sized yellow pear ( fig« 
45. b, full size). [An excellent fruit, with a peculiar tere- 
binthinate flavour. — Con.] 


250 Three New Keeping Pears. 


Prince de Printems; the small green pear ( Sig. 45. Cy full 
size). (Sugary and melting, but eaten rather too soon to judge 
fully of its merits. — Con.] 


Dathouste Castle 251 


Buds of these pears were given to me, about seven years 
ago, by Mr. Louis Stoffells of Malines. The fruit has been 
exhibited at meetings of the H. S. Those now sent to you 
grew against a N.W. wall at my cottage, Thames Ditton. If 
you find either of these pears worth notice, mention it in your 


next number. Very respectfully, I am, 
My dear Sir, &c. 
Boughton Mount, \Joun Brappick. 


Maidstone, 8th April. 


Art. III. Dalhousie Castle § Gardens ; the Botany of the Neigh- 
bourhood, and various Remarks. By Mr. JosepH ARCHIBALD, 
C.M. H.S., upwards of Nineteen Years Gardener there. 


Dear Sir, . 

I wAveE taken the liberty of sending you a few observations, 
made during my residence at Dalhousie Castle. If you con- 
sider them deserving a place in your excellent miscellany, 
the “ Gardener’s Magazine,” it will be very gratifying to me 
to have contributed in the least possible way to the usefulness 
of such an interesting work. 

Dalhcusie Castle, one of the seats of the Right Honourable 
the Earl of Dalhousie, is situated about eight miles south-east 
from Edinburgh; two miles from Dalkeith, and the like 
distance from Lasswade. It is a very ancient structure, the 
date of its erection not being, I believe, correctly known. A 
large addition, and considerable alterations, were made ten 
years ago, and it is intended to commence the building of a 
new front to the north, this summer. It is delightfully situated 
on the north bank of the South Esk, the scenery is very ro- 
mantic and varied, the rocky banks of the river being adorned 
with natural oak, &c. The principal approach from the north 
was laid out, about twenty years ago, by the late Mr. Walter 
Nicol; a great improvement in it is proposed at the main 
entrance, by bringing the carriage-read over a small brook, 
and through part of a plantation. It is also intended to ex- 
tend the approach from the south, to about one-fourth of a mile 
to the southward, as soon as the public road can be removed 
to the westward. By this means, a very fine bridge of three 
arches will be included in the pleasure-grounds. 

Since I entered his lordship’s service in 1807, nearly two 
hundred acres haye been planted; partly in belts, for shelter 
on the high grounds; but the greater part for ornament, 
and cover for game. Some of the banks of plantation near the 
Castle, planted about thirty years ago, are now being converted 
into oak coppices, 

Vol. I. No. 3. 8 


252 Dathousie Gardens. 


I now beg to give you a 
short description of the 
garden and _hot-houses, 
which were the design of 
Mr. John Hay, garden 
architect, Edinburgh, in 
1806. Thegarden ( fig.46.) 
is on the north side of the 
river, about one fourth of 
a mile east from the Castle, 
and contains nearly four 
acres. The plan is cer- 
tainly very different from, 
and in effect far surpasses 
the ordinary mode of en- 
closing gardens by straight 
walls, in the form of squares 
or parallelograms; the wall 
here, which is fifteen feet 
in height, having been built 
in a curved and winding 
direction, to suit the ad- 
jacent ground. ‘The situ- 
ation has been much ad- 
mired by every person of 
taste who has visited it: 
one particular beauty con- 
sists in the natural fence 
on the south side, be- 
ing perpendicular, rugged 
rucks, to the depth of from & 
50 to 40 feet to the bed of § 
the river, with a walk along 
the top. The range of 
glazed houses is 203 feet 
in length, consisting of a 
green-house in the centre 
36 feet, two vineries 77 
feet, and two peach-houses 
45 feet each; with an ex- 
cellent room on a level 
with the top of the green- 
house stage, where are 
deposited some beautiful 
specimens of natural his- 
tory, and a few useful 
books on botany, garden- 
ing, agriculture, &c. 

The details of the garden 
exhibit 


(@) Quarters for vegetables, 
small fruit, &c. 
(8) Borders and plots for Ame- 
rican plants. 
c) Melon ground. 
(d@) Gardener’s house. 
(e) Greenhouse. 


Dalhousie Gardens. 253 


(f) Vineries. (0) Coal-shed. (uz) Four divisions of the flued 

( g) Peach-houses, ( BE Open-shed. wall. 

( h) Fruit-room. (q) Bank of Rhododendrons, (uv) Stock-holes. 

(4) Mushroom house. c. (w.) Shrubbery borders. 

(%) Potting shed. (7) Line of variegated’ Hollies te Walk towards the Castle. 

{ Z) Gardener’s room. (s) Flower-plots and short y) Cart-road to the Garden. 
m) Water-house. grass. %) Road to Dalkeith. 

(nm) Tool-house. (¢) Sunk-fence. & ) South-Esk, 


The greater part of the soil in the garden is a very strong 
clayey loam, consequently unfavourable for early cropping, 
but producing excellent crops of vegetables for Autumn and 
Winter. 

The peach and nectarine trees and vines in the houses have 
generally been very productive. In one of the vineries, how- 
ever, a defect tock place several years ago, and was getting 
worse every succeeding season; about the time when the 
grapes began to colour or approach to maturity, the berries 
got shrivelled ; sometimes the shoulders and lower extremities 
of the clusters, and occasionally whole bunches were rendered 

‘useless in this way ; the several sorts of Frontignac were most 
subject to this failure, and a great proportion of the vines in 
that house, are of the different varieties of this grape; viz. 
white, black, red, and grisley. Many and various conjectures 
were formed as to the cause, one of which was, that the roots 
had in all probability got through the border, which was 
formed fully three feet deep, was well manured and mixed by 
repeated trenching, and into the subsoil, which is gravel and 
sand; I accordingly determined to make the following trial, 
and in the Spring of 1824, took the breadth of four sashes in 
the centre of the house, and removed all the surface soil to 
the depth of eighteen inches, and to the whole breadth of the 
border outside the house, working with forks for the safety 
of the roots; all of which were then brought up, and cut 
back to various lengths, most of them being totally desti- 
tute of small fibres; I had been correct in supposing that they 
had gone very deep. I new proceeded to lay them in differ- 
ent strata, none of them deeper than eighteen inches, among 
the surface soil, having previously mixed with it some well 
rotted cow-dung, and decayed leaves of trees. In consequence 
of this severe check, the vines made very weak shoots the 
following Summer, and bore a scanty crop, but none of them 
were shrivelled ; last Autumn they bore a full crop, both the 
fruit and wood ripened sooner than in the other parts of the 
house, and no shrivelling appeared. 

Having left his lordship’s service in November last, owing 
to an alteration and reduction having taken place in the 
establishment, I was prevented from treating all the rest in 
the same way, which I intended to do. The above hint, I 
hope, may not be entirely useless, as I have often heard the 

T2 


254 Dalhousie Gardens. 


same defect complained of, and generally the cause assigned 
is that of allowing too weighty a crop; this, however, I may 
venture to say I have disproved. I understand that some vines 
have lately been treated in nearly the same way at Colzean 
Castle, the seat of the Earl of Cassilis, but I have not heard 
the result. 

Connected with the above subject, I have taken the liberty 
of sending you a sketch of a circular vinery, which I designed 
for General Durham of Largo, in Fife, (jig. 47.) It is similar 


H} 
Cy 


pcr ern 


rigg, near Dalhousie, invented by himself. He is an old 
man, of very eccentric habits. In this case he was his own 
architect, bricklayer, carpenter, glazier, painter, &c., having 
executed all the work with his own hands. I have witnessed 
for many years excellent crops in this house, and, as a proof 
that the grapes are of a superior quality, he has invariably 
obtained the highest market price. The kinds he cultivates 
are confined to black Hamburgh, black Lombardy, and white 
sweet-water. The soil round the vinery is only from one foot 
to thirteen inches deep, and the subsoil is a hard impervious 
clay. He has repeatedly told me, that in preparing the 
border, before planting the vines, he merely dunged and dug 
the ground, as if for a crop of cabbages or potatoes, neither 
has it ever been manured or turned over since; and is now 
trodden as firm and hard as any old beaten path. He is by 
no means particular about giving air, the temperature being 
often above 100° of Fahrenheit in the Summer months, and 
whenever air is admitted, it is merely by the door-way, and 
a small hole at top, all the sashes being fixed. For several 
years at first he raised very good crops of grapes without fire 
heat; but in one particularly backward season, the wood not 
being properly ripened, he set about building a furnace and 
fiues. General Durham has informed me that his grape-house 
of this construction (fig. 44.) has succeeded admirably. 


Dathousie Gardens. 255 


I beg to be understood, that I by no means recommend a 
circular vinery in preference to any other form, being con- 
vinced, that under the same quantity of glass in any of the 
ordinary ways of constructing vineries, the same, or a greater 
quantity of grapes may be grown; neither do I pretend to 
determine the precise depth that a border for vines ought to 
be; but, one thing I have attempted to prove, namely, that 
excellent crops of well-flavoured grapes may be obtained, 
without being at the expence of making borders three feet 
or more in depth. 

To finish my account of the garden at Dalhousie Castle, 
allow me further to mention, that, since the year 1817, ex- 
tensive collections of plants have been sent home from Canada 
and Nova Scotia by the Countess of Dalhousie, a lady, whose 
zealous and indefatigable exertions in botanical matters have 
seldom, I think, been surpassed ; perhaps not often equalled ; 
few having attained such proficiency as her ladyship in the 
science. 

The following more rare natives of North America have 
flowered in great perfection at Dalhousie Castle ; viz. 


Epigzea repens, a space three feet by four feet 
I may venture to say, without the and a half. 
. fear of contradiction, that this Cymbidium pulchellum, 
beautiful little plant was never Pogonia ophioglossoides, 
seen in greater perfection in this Habenaria blephariglottis, 
country. These two were figured in Dr. 
Arethusa bulbosa, Hooker’s Exotic Flora; the last 
Cypripedium spectabile, of them having flowered for the 
_ pubescens, first time in this country. 
— parviflorum, Orchis macrophylla, 
— humile, Habenaria fimbriata, 
— arietinum, Sarracenia purpurea, 
Nuphar advena var, — __ variolaris, 
The leaves of this variety float on the Primula mistassinica, 
surface, whereas the leaves of the Pyrola asarifolia, 
original N. advena, rise out of the _ Glycine monoica, the Amphi- 
water. carpa monoica of Nuttall, 
Mitchella repens, Gerardia purpurea, 
I had a patch of this plant covering Goodyera repens, 


—  _ pubescense 


The Arethusa, Pogonia, Habenarias, Sarracenias, Cymbidium, 
and some others, I found to thrive best in large pans filled 
with sphagnum, without any other soil, and placed in a pit or 
hot-bed frame. 

As it may not be uninteresting to some of your readers, I 
have enumerated below a few of the rarer native plants, which 
grow in the neighbourhood of Dalhousie Castle; some of them 

TS 


256 Native Plants round Dalhousie. 


do not appear to have been taken notice of by botanists, as 
having been found in the places mentioned. 


Circzea lutetiana, 
Veronica montana, 
Schcenus compressus, 
Milium effusum, 
Melica nutans, 
Bromus asper, 
Plantago media, 
Galium mollugo, 
Pulmonaria officinalis 
Symphytum tuberosum, 
Campanula latifolia, 
Solanum dulcamara, 
Erythrza centaurea, 
Vinca major, 
Gentiana amarella, 
— _ campestris, 
Sanicula EKuropza, 
(Enanthe crocata, 
Sison inundatum, 
Peucedanum Silaus, 
Angelica sylvestris, 
Cherophyllum odoratum, 
Galanthus nivalis, 
This plant is found in great abund- 
ance at Arniston, even to the ex- 
tent of acres being covered with it. 
Allium ursinum, 
Narthecium ossifragum, 
Luzula pilosa, 
Epilobium angustifolium, 
Daphne laureola, 
Convallaria multiflora, 
[ found several plants of this, evi- 
dently, I think, in a wild state, in 
an old wood ona rocky bank of 
the S. Esk, near Dalhousie Castle, 
where, to all appearance, it has 
been established for a long time, 
and whete there is little chance 
of its having escaped from any 
garden. 
Acer pseudo-platanus, 
— campestre, 
Adoxa moschatellina, 
Pyrola rotundifolia, 
— minor, 
This last species of Pyrola is found 
in great abundance at the Roman 
camp near Dalkeith, and in seve- 
ral other places in this neighbour- 
hood: what appears singular to 
me,is, that I havefrequently found 
it in large patches in young plan- 
tations from twelve to twenty 


years old, where the ground has 
evidently been cultivated before 
planting, and no appearance of 
the plant growing in the unculti- 
vated ground in the vicinity, al- 
though the soil is exactly similar, 
and the surface, to all appear- 
ance, has never been disturbed. 
A proof of this may be seen in a 
plantation near the foot of the 
village of Dalhousie. 

Saxifraga umbrosa, 

Arenaria trinervis, 

Sedum Telephium, 

Euphorbia exigua, 

Pyrus aucuparia, 

Spireea salicifolia, 

Rubus saxatilis, 
Rosa spinosissima, with red petals, 


This is the Rosa Ciphiana of Sir 


Robert Sibbald, first observed by 
him growing on his own estate 
near Edinburgh. It has been 
found in several other places since 
his time. From Kirkhill, about a 
mile above DalhousieCastle. where 
I believe it was first discovered by 
Mrs. Halliday, then residing in 
Kirkhill-House, and where it is 
growing abundantly, I sent plants 
of it to the Botanic Garden at 
Edinburgh, and also to Mr. Sabine, 
for the London Horticultural 
Garden. It is pretty generally 
known, that it was from the seeds 
of a variety with reddish petals, 
that the Messrs. Browns of Perth 
first raised the double varieties of 
Scetch rose, now so much and 
justly admired; but whether their 
variety was exactly the same as 
this, I am unable to determine. 

Trollius Kuropzeus, 

Ajuga reptans, 

Betonica officinalis, 

Stachys ambigua, 

Melampyrum pratense, 

Lathrza squamaria, 


This singular plant, certainly para- 


sitical, grows in considerable quan- 
tities in several places about the 
banks of the north and south Esk. 
It is worthy of notice that it is 
found chiefly under elms at Dal- 


Native Plants round Dathouszie. 257 


housie Castle, under thorns at 
Arniston, and beech-trees at Mel- 
ville Castle. I have never been 
able to cultivate it, although I 
made frequent attempts ; having 
also sown ripe seeds, but never 
saw it appear the second year after 
penne: My friend Mr. James 

alker, however, gardener at 
Melville Castle, has succeeded in 
transplanting a patch of it, by 
removing with it a large portion 


of earth, and of course part of the © 


root to which it was attached; he 
has planted it in a border among 
rhododendrons, where ithas come 
up and flowered for several years. 

Cardamine amara, 

Hesperis matronalis, 

Geranium sylvaticum, 

Malva moschata, 

Vicia sylvatica, 

Hypericum hirsutum, 

Leontodon palustre, 

Hieracium aurantiacum, 


—  sabaudum, 
Cnicus eriophorus, 
Scarcely indigenous, but found 


abundantly on the banks of the 
north Esk, below Melville Castle. 

Kupatorium cannabinum, 

Solidago virgaurea, 

Doronicum pardalianches, 

Anthemis arvensis, 

—  cotula, 
Gymnadenia conopsea, 
Habenaria viridis, 
— bifolia, 

Neottia nidus-avis, 
This rare plant is found occasionally 
in the woods about the banks of 
the Esk, but by no means abund- 
antly. I am not aware that it has 
been taken notice of, but it ap- 
pears to me to be only a biennial, 
or, at least, the same plant seldom 
or ever flowers twice; as I have 
often seen decayed flower-stalks of 
the preceding year, without meet- 
ing with any fresh plant near, and 
when the roots are taken up they 
appear as dead as the flower stems, 
I do not know that it has ever 
been cultivated. When the plant 
is taken up in flower, I have very 


rarely seen a bud for aflower-stem 
for the following year, as is the 
case with most other orchideous 
plants. It is also remarkable that 
a plant which produces such 
abundance of seed should be so 
rare. I have sometimes met with 
a single plant in flower, and after 
looking carefully in the neighbour- 
hood, failed in finding another. I 
am inclined to think, that all or 
the greater part of the plants that 
flower, are from self-sown seed, 
but how long after these seeds 
vegetate, before the plant flowers, 
I believe, is yet to be ascertained. 
Listera ovata, 
—  cordata, 
Epipactis palustris, 
first found this scarce plant in 
1824 in company with Mr. James 
Hutchison, now gardener to the 
Earl of Cassilis, at St. Margarets, 
Isleworth, in marshy ground near 
the Roman camp, Dalkeith, in 
considerable abundance; I am 
pretty certain the first time it 
was observed in that situation ;— 
although there are plenty of 
plants, few flowers are produced, 
partly owing, I think, to the cattle 
eating it over when ina young 
state. 
Carex paniculata, 
— axillaris, 
— pendula, 
— strigosa, 
— sylvatica, 
— paludosa, 
Quercus sessiliflora. E.B.1845 
Salix repens, 
Populus tremula, 
— nigra, 
Equisetum fluviatile, 
Ophioglossum vulgatum, 
Botrychium lunaria, 
Blechnum boreale, 
Scolopendrium vulgare, 
Aspidium fragile, 
—  dilatatum, 
—  aculeatum, 
— __ oreopteris, 
Polypodium phegopteris, 
- dryopteris, &c. &c 


I have enclosed a sketch of a brass mould of my own 
invention (fiz. 46.) for casting leaden tallies, with accom- 


T 4 


958 Plant. Tallies in Use at Daihousie. 


panying specimens (fig. 48.); the largest (@), I used for plants 


a 
i 


a 


oo ~~ oe - oe ee - — 


in the open borders; the next size (6) for plants in pots; and 
the thinnest (c), not cast, but which is cut out of sheet-lead, for 
an extensive collection of geraniaceze. If youthink them worthy 
of being taken notice of, I leave it to you to describe them. 
I remain, dear Sir, &c. 
Edinburgh, Archibald Place, JOSEPH ARCHIBALD. 
25th Feb. 1826. 


The mould alluded to consists of two parts (jig. 49. a, b,) 


joined together by a hinge (c). One of the parts is furnished 
with a handle (d), which serves to shut the mould, and hold 
it while the operator is pouring in the melted lead at a small 
orifice (e). ‘The tallies (f) cast in this mould, are thickest 
at the lower end (g ); those of the larger sizes are thickest at 
the neck (jig. 48 a, b, c.)—Cond. 


Field Gardening. 259 


Arv.IV. On Field Gardening, and on the Gardens of Farm 
Servants in Scotland. By Venus of Berwickshire. 


Sir, 

I nave perused the first number of your Magazine with 
much satisfaction, and am disposed to believe that amateur and 
professional gardeners may. derive much benefit from such a 
work, provided it continues to be conducted with the like spirit 
and judgment as is displayed at its commencement. It was 
my intention to offer a few remarks upon some of the articles 
that you have presented, but as the copy sent me is in the 
hands of a neighbour, it is out of my power at this time to 
fulfil my intentions. Suffice it to say that the remarks were of 
an approbatory nature, and, as such, were rather calculated to 
illustrate the subjects discussed than to censure or condemn any 
thing that was stated. In short, whilst the work promises to 
be useful to the public, there is every probability that it will 
not only add to the character of its conductor, but also prove 
of advantage to the publishers. 

Though these are my sentiments with regard to the nature 
of the work, as it presently stands, it strikes me that the 
original design might be greatly improved by including, what 
I call, Field Gardening, amongst the subjects mentioned in 
the prospectus. The husbandry of the field, in various dis- 
tricts, is now conducted with as much neatness and regularity 
as can be displayed in the best managed gardens, and, in point 
of fact, there is no difference betwixt culture in the one case 
and culture in the other, except that field-gardening is carried 
on upon a greater scale than the husbandry, as you must 
allow me to call it, of a garden. Ihave seen fields of beans, 
consisting perhaps of fifty acres, and fields of turnips of the 
same extent, all as neatly rowed in drills, at intervals of 
twenty-seven inches, and as carefully dressed by the horse-hoe 
as I ever witnessed the crops of the best managed garden. 
Now, to treat of these matters surely cannot be inconsistent 
with the work you have undertaken; on the contrary I am 
disposed to reckon, that were you to intimate that articles 
concerning the cultivation of the fields would be acceptable, 
the utility of your work would be vastly increased. Mistake 
me not. I do not recommend the introduction of what is 
called Political Economy, because I am aware that any thing of 
that nature would lead you into a wider field than can be 
conveniently occupied; nor do I mean that the management 
of live stock, or any matters which relate to grass-land, should 
be taken up. No; the recommendation given extends no 


260 teld Gardening and Cottage Gardens. 


farther than the cultivation of the soil, and the management 
of the crops that are produced upon it; and I am almost 
convinced that were that recommendation adopted, the majority 
of your readers would be highly gratified. 

As the pen is in my hand, allow me to say a few words con- 
cerning the gardens of farm servants in the low country dis- 
tricts of Scotland, because some advantage might likely arise 
were that system imitated in every part of England. You 
know, quite well, that married servants are usually employed 
in Scotland, who havea house upon the farm contiguous to the 
homestead, to which a small garden is connected, and whose 
_ wages are chiefly paid in kind, that is, in corn, with maintenance 
for a cow all the year round, and a certain portion of ground in 
the fields for potatoes, which ground is ploughed, manured, and 
horse-hoed by the master, the servant having no more to do 
than to provide seed for planting the space allotted to him, 
to clean the ground so far as hand labour is required, and to 
dig up the crop afterwards. The weight of the crop, in general 
cases, may be about one and a quarter ton, often more, and 
that quantity is sufficient to supply the consumption of a family 
through the winter, and sometimes, with the aid of skimmed 
milk, to feed a pig, if the female is a good housewife. In 
short, servants paid in this manner are much better off than 
those paid in money, and are even more comfortably situated 
than the great body of artisans and manufacturers, as may 
probably be more amply explained on some future occasion. 
But to come to the object particularly in view, each servant 
has a garden immediately behind his dwelling-house, of suffi- 
cient size for producing early potatoes and pot-herbs for the 
family. This garden is generally enclosed by a stone wall, or, 
to speak correctly, the whole gardens of the servants are 
included in one inclosure, each being separated from the other 
by a footpath. Dung for manuring the garden is always 
allowed by the farmer, and the labour of digging, planting, 
and cleaning, is executed by the servant at bye-hours, or in 
the evenings after the labour of the day is finished. Here you 
wiil observe, that married servants being engaged for a year, 
the digging of a garden cannot commence sooner than the 
beginning of March, or when hiring time is over, which to a 
certain extent is detrimental, though, in point of fact, it cannot 
be avoided. The first object is to plant cabbages, an article 
never neglected, as farm servants in Scotland live much more 
upon barley-broth, cooked with vegetables, than their brethren 
in England. ‘The next step is to plant early potatoes, and of 
these a sufficient quantity is generally raised to serve their 
families from the middle of July till the field potatoes are 


State of Gardening in Ireland. 261 


ready for taking up. Some have a few beans and white pease, 
and others a small plot of onions, leeks, and carrots. In short, 
the whole garden is constantly under crop, and parts of it often 
carry two crops in the year; the ground which carried potatoes 
being generally digged and planted with Scotch or curled kail, 
as fast as the potatoes are removed. Under these circum- 
stances, a kitchen-garden is of immense benefit to a Scottish 
family, especially when the owner has a taste for dressing it 
sufficiently, of which the farm servants in Scotland are seldom 
destitute. Indeed, a Scotchman obtains from his garden what 
an Englishman, in his case, commonly seeks at the ale-house. 
In this respect the fashions of the two countries differ so widely, 
that it is not easy to say which is best ; therefore, without pro- 
nouncing judgment, the whole shall be left to the determination 


of your readers. 
y Iam, &c. 


Berwickshire, 4th March, 1826. VERUS. 


The description of papers alluded to by Verus we consider 
as perfectly suitable, and we invite our readers, and especially 
our much esteemed friend himself, to supply them. They 
will be particularly interesting to such gardeners as are also 
Agronomes. —Cond. 


Art. V. On the present State of Gardening in Ireland, with 
Hints for its future Improvement. By Mr. James Fraser, 
Author of a Letter to the President and Vice-President of 
the Horticultural Society of Ireland. 


(Continued from No. I. p. 14.) 


OvEeRHANGING Merville is Mount Merrion, the residence 
of Verschoyle, Esq., the most conspicuous seat in the 
vicinity of the metropolis. It is interesting as a place of former 
days, and from the finely-grown trees and evergreens by which 
it is adorned. The style of the demesne is antique and plain, 
but the garden has been long remarkable for its excellent pro- 
ductions under the management of Mr. Egan. ‘This demesne, 
from its extent, elevated situation, and large ornamental trees, 
is susceptible of much improvement ; commanding a full view 
of the town, the bay, and the mountains; looking down on 
the innumerable villas, rising in all the endless variety of 
architectural design, with which the environs of Dublin are so 
thickly studded, and forming, as it were, one of the principal 
features in the landscape of the smaller residences south of 
the city. While in this neighbourhood we will notice Ann- 
field, the villa of Dr. Percival, in the management of which 
this venerable physician employs his few leisure moments. 


262 State of ‘Gardening in Ireland. 


We observed with much pleasure, among many other improve- 
ments, that he had succeeded in acclimating the Pittosporum 
tobira, Hypericum balearicum, Selago corymbosa, Agapan- 
thus umbellatus, and several other exotics. Mr. Mackay of 
Trinity college has bestowed a great deal of pains and time 
on this interesting subject, the particulars of which he has 
published in the first and second numbers of the Dublin 
Philosophical Journal. At each end of the house there is a 
conservatory ; one is used for Cape and Botany Bay plants, 
the other for the more tender exotics. ‘The amateur whose 
avocations principally confine him to the city, and who seeks 
for health and recreation in his villa, would profit by an occa- 
sional visit to Annfield. 

To the south-west of the city lie Rathfarnham Castle and 
Marley, places of considerable extent and long standing. The 
gardens of the former we have already mentioned as in a state 
of ruin. ‘The plantations have been protected, and there still 
exists, to the south of the castle, a sinall grove of evergreen 
oaks, as fine trees of the kind as we remember to have seen. 
Among them are two distinct varieties of Quercus ilex; and 
last year the more common sort brought to perfection an im- 
mense quantity of acorns, an unusual occurrence in this part 
of the island. The cultivation of these varieties of oak seems 
of late years to have been much neglected by planters, a 
circumstance to be regretted, as we know of no tree entitled 
to rank with them as evergreens. By proper management they 
may be adapted to the shrubbery, where they form beautiful 
hardy bushes, or trained in the forest, where they vie with 
their more robust congeners. 

Marley, the residence of Latouche, Esq., is delightfully 
situated at the foot of the range of hills, which on this side 
form the back-ground to the environs of the city. The 
gardens and pleasure-grounds were, till of late years, in 
great repute. .We understand that the late Mr. Leggett, 
a landscape gardener of original talent, laid out the grounds. 
He has evinced considerable taste in the management of the 
mountain rivulet, which is conducted through the demesne. 
By many, the cascades are considered too numerous, causing 
in some places a greater degree of placidity than is consistent 
with the character of the stream. The demesne, generally 
speaking, has been much renovated within these few years by 
Mr. Dunne. 

Adjacent to this is Tereneure, the seat of Frederick Bourne, 
Esq-, 2 most zealous amateur in every branch of gardening. 
The gardens and dressed-grounds are extensive, and con- 
tain the best private collection of plants we know in this coun- 
iry. Although extensively engaged in business, Mr. Bourne, 


State of Gardening in Ireland. 263 


as a source of relaxation, generally directs the affairs of the 
garden; and in the ornamental department he possesses an 
original and correct taste. He was among the first to break 
down the barriers which had so long hemmed the villa 
gardener within the parallel beds of tulips and elliptical figures 
of roses, and to lead the way in endeavouring, upon natural 
principles, to blend the decorative with the useful. The con- 
servatory is a large structure, and is heated by steam. The 
forcing-houses are extensive, and the collection of hardy 
shrubs is ver y interesting. 

It is pleasing to observe, that in this neighbourhood 
Mr. Bourne’s example has been in some degree followed; as 
in the improvements at Bushy Park, the charming residence 
of Sir Robert Shaw, Bart., alii possesses many natur al 
advantages. ‘The forcing department, in particular, of this 
garden, ‘has been long @ judiciously managed by Mr. M‘Cabe. 

While here, we heeion to correct a mistake which has in- 
advertently crept into the Encyclopedia of Gardening. In 
that work, Tollaght, the former country residence of the 
Archbishops of Dublin, is, in the enumeration of Irish coun- 
try seats, mentioned as a place of note. For many years past 
this place has been wholly neglected, and, except two very 
large picturesque walnut trees, is quite unworthy. of notice. 
Cypress Grove, a beautiful villa, laid out and planted by the 
late Countess Clanbrasil, is in this line. Some of the best 
grown ornamental trees and shrubs about the city are to be 
seen here. Magnolia acuminata has attained to a great size, 
and there are several very large bushes of the Cratzegus punc- 
tata in the lawn. Of the various American and European 
thorns, which are admirably suited for the park, or dressed 
grounds, with how few do we meet! ‘There is also a very fine 
specimen of the cork-tree in the park, which we were sorry to 
observe quite unprotected. In the garden, great care appears 
to have been taken in the original formation of the borders, 
and in the selection of the faa trees, which, under all the 
changes to which this place has been subjected, is still evinced : 
there are few gardens of the size so productive; and if a prac- 
tical example of the good effects resulting from proper manage- 
ment in the commencement of a place were wanting, that of 
Cypress Grove might be adduced. 

It would far exceed our present limits to enter even into a 
bare enumeration of all the gardens about Dublin. We are 
aware that we have omitted several important matters; but 
to these we will return, being determined to insert nothing but 
what has come under our actual observation. This explanation 
will, it is hoped, satisfy those who may at present consider 
themselves overlooked. 


264 State of Gardening in Ireland. 


Before journeying northwards, we beg leave to introduce 
Merino, the seat of Earl Charlemont, and then to make a few 
general remarks. Merino has more the character of a country 
residence than any yet specified. Its extensive wcods, com- 
paratively speaking, closely surrounded by the trees of the ad- 
joining villas, give it, as you approach from the south, the ap- 
pearance of a dense forest. ‘The gardens are extensive, and, 
we are happy to state, rapidly improving in every department, 
under the management of Mr. Hethrington, the president of 
the Irish Horticultural Society. ‘This demesne is open to the 
public. 

The gardens, generally speaking, around the city, have been 
laid down upon too large a scale; the consequences are, a fall- 
ing off in the means necessary to support them in their pristine 
style, and a neglect of those particulars which constitute the 
chief beauties of gardening. With the view of having them 
near the mansion, a very obvious mistake has been made on 
the part of the proprietors, the outside walls and borders being 
thereby sacrificed. Independent of the economy, we know of 
no plan so neat and comfortable as a moderate-sized garden, 
from one to two Irish acres, according to the nature of the 
family, with a properly secured slip around, so that due advan- 
tage may be taken of both sides of the walls. This is the prac- 
tice of Mr. Hay, round Edinburgh, whose designs have given 
such general satisfaction, and of Mr. M‘Leish, throughout this 
country. In the formation and internal arrangement of the 
houses for ornamental plants, little improvement has been 
made on their original simplicity; and, except the conservatory 
in the Dublin Society’s Botanical Gardens, there are none to 
vie with the late Mr: Angerstein’s at Blackheath, or Sir Robert 
Liston’s at Milburn Tower, in Mid-Lothian, nearer than that 
at Shane’s Castle, in the county of Antrim. The application 
of steam has been confined to one or two places, and the me- 
tallic sash to a like number. We have no want of horticul- 
tural erections of this sort, attached to dwelling-honses, of 
every scale and form; but they are, with very few exceptions, 
the mere gewgaws of some city architect, in which, perhaps, a 
myrtle or orange-tree might struggle out a wretched existence. 
Until the prejudices which exist among operatives to the cul- 
tivation of exotics are removed, we cannot look for much 
improvement in this department. ‘True it is, that in the pro- 
duction of early culinary crops, peaches, and the framing de- 
partment, the Dublin gardeners are only to be excelled by those 
around London; they certainly exceed those of Edinburgh. 
In the cultivation of the pine-apple and vine, in the manage- 
ment of wall-trees, and in several of the more elegant branches 
of the art, much remains to be done. The dissemination of the 


Kitley Shaddock. 265 


Encyclopeedias of Gardening and Agriculture, followed by the 
Gardener’s Magazine, will, itis hoped, incite among practical 
men a spirit of reading and inquiry into the nature and prin- 
ciples of matters appertaining to their profession ; and while 
the mechanics of every rank and degree throughout the empire 
are zealously coming forward to form institutions for their ad- 
vancement in the arts and sciences, let it not be said that a 
class of men so long distinguished for their intelligence and 
respectability remain inactive. 

(To be continued.) 


Arr. VI. Some Account of the Kitley Shaddock. By Mr. H. 
SaunpErs, Gardener to E. P. Bastard, Esq. M. P. of 
Kitley, Devonshire. 

Sir, 

Havine perused the first Number of your valuable Gar- 
dener’s Magazine, and finding such an excellent channel open 
for noting the various daily improvements making in horticul- 
ture, I send you two fruit, and some cuttings of a seedling 


plant of the Shaddock family (fg. 50.) The plant which pro- 


266 Kitley Shaddock. 


duced these fruit was raised here from seed, and was kept in a 
confined tub for a series of years previously to my having the 
management of it. I was induced, about seven years since, to 
give it a trial in the conservatory, in a preparation of compost, 
which occasioned it to grow very luxuriantly ; and, by oradu- 
ally ringing the branches, I brought it most successfully into a 
bearing state. It now produces many dozen fruit annually, in 
clusters; three, and frequently forr, in a cluster. It is con- 
sidered a fine dessert fruit, and we have given it the appel- 
lation of the Kitley Shaddock, until we can obtain a more cor- 
rect term. 
I am, Sir, &c. 
Kitley, March 7.1826. HIERMAN SAUNDERS. 


Note. —We tasted the fruit, and found it something in fla- 
vour and consistency between an orange and a shaddock. The 
cuttings are distributed among amateurs, there being but little 
demand for the citrus tribe in the nurseries. One cutting we 
kept, and prepared in a manner which, though not original, or 
of recent invention, is not, we believe, generally known among 
gardeners. We have heard, from different sources, that it was 
the invention of the late Mr. Hoy, of Sion Gardens; but if any 
reader can claim it for himself, or refer it to the inventor, we 
shall be happy to give place to his communication, and pay a 
tribute to the memory of the author of a useful and curious 
piece of manipulation. 


The cutting (fg. 51.) being 51 
cut across immediately below ee 
ajoint, is then slit up (a), and . os) 
tongued at the joint above, in AN | 
the manner of laying the car- <2 poe. 
nation (0); and, if necessary, KS 


the slits may be kept open by \\ ee 
interposing a small bit of any \ 

thing, as in common practice. 

We planted our cutting in a (/ 

pot of sandy peat, about the 
1sth of March; it began to 
push in a fortnight, and at the | 
end of eight weeks from being 
put in we transplanted it, and 
found abundance of roots, with 
a shoot, in a growing state, of 
several joints. It was kept in a 
cucumber frame, and covered 
with a glass. — Cond. Ad 


Saul’s Transplanter. 267 


Art. VII. Description of a new Transplanting Instrument, for 
removing Plants when in Flower. Invented by Mr. Mar- 
THIAS SAUL, of Lancaster, and communicated by him. 

Sir, 

I sEND you a description and drawing of a transplanting 
apparatus, which, if you think of any interest to the readers 
of the Gardener’s Magazine, you are extremely welcome 
to. It differs from the one given in your Encyclopedia 
of Gardening, and from every other which I have seen or 
heard of. When the instrument is put together, it forms a 
cylinder (fig. 52. a), and when 52 
separate it consists of two 
parts (4), which are joined to- 
gether, something on the prin- 
ciple of a common door-hinge. fal, 

In using this instrument it is 

best to have two of them; 

one to take out the earth at the 

spot where you wish to insert 

the plant, and one to remove 

the flower with its ball of earth. 

The instrument may be made 

of any size; mine is about six 

inches long, and six inches in 

diameter. I find no necessity 

for any handles: in using it I place it so that the plant or 

flower is in the centre; I then press the apparatus into the 
soil, and find no difficulty in drawing the plant up with the soil, 
not more disturbed than if it had been originally planted in the 
instrument. Onthe 25th of April I took up a Van Thol tulip 
and a seedling polyanthus from my garden, and placed them on 
the flower-stage of the Lancashire flower-show, where they re- 
mained from ten o’clock in the morning till five in the afternoon. 

I then replaced them in the same place in the garden, and, after 

I had withdrawn the apparatus, there appeared no defect in 

the border, nor drooping in the flower. 1 have removed seve- 

ral large wallflowers in full bloom this month, without the least 

appearance of the flower being injured. I have always been 

told that a plant in full flower could not be removed, but I have 
- proved that by this apparatus it may be done with safety. 

Tam at present trying some other experiments, the result of 
which will, I hope, be of interest to the Gardener’s Magazine. 

I remain, Sir, &c. 
Marruias SAvL. 

Sulyard Street, Lancaster, April 23. 1826 

Vou. I. No. 3. U 


268 Winter-keeping of Apples. 


Transplanters are chiefly used by florists to fill up blanks 

in show-beds of flowers. ‘The French one (fig. 53.), is one of 
the neatest. Excepting for the purposes mentioned, 
a trowel or the spade will be preferred by the prac- 
tical gardener. Mr. Saul has very obligingly sent us 
one of his implements, and proposed that we should 
take up a tulip, pot it, and send it by coach to the 
Lancashire show ; but not being “ high in that fancy,” 
as the phrase is, all we could do for the credit of 
his ingenious invention was to send the transplanter 
to Weir’s, Oxford-street, where it is manufactured 
for sale, under the name of Saul’s Transplanter. — 
Cond. 


Art. VIII. On a Mode of keeping Apples through the 
Winter, as practised by Mr. Ropert Donaxp, Nurseryman, 
Woking. 


Dear Sir, 

I wave read with much gratification the first and second 
numbers of your valuable Gardener’s Magazine, — the long- 
wished-for medium of communicating pleasing and useful know- 
ledge, and much improvement to various classes of society. The 
nobility and gentry of fortune who have already a taste for 
gardening, will be more and more enlightened in that most 
rational amusement, so conducive to health and happiness ; 
they will be better able to distinguish gardeners of expe- 
rience from those who assume much and know but little, 
and to regulate their salaries in proportion to their abilities, 
and the extent of the gardens they may have to super- 
intend. 

To the merchants and citizens of London who have country 
residences, — to them and their families, a good garden and 
pleasure-grounds are great recreations from the bustle of busi- 
ness, and a luxury from the smoke of London. The Gardener’s 
Magazine will be to them a pleasing source of amusement and 
a profitable acquisition. ‘To experienced gardeners it will 
refresh their memories and improve their minds by new dis- 
coveries. 

On young students in the profession, who exert their 
powers to excel in the science of botany, and to select and 
improve our fruits and vegetables; on them the experi- 
ments and reports of the Horticultural Society, in conjunction 
with the Gardener’s Magazine will have a wonderful effect. 


Gardening of Denmark. 269 


The labouring classes will gain much useful information 
how to crop their gardens, to choose and plant the best 
bearing kinds of fruit trees, and how to keep their apples, &c. 
agreeably to the valuable article of William Stevenson, Esq. ; 
thereby adding much to their comforts and the improvement 
of their morals. 

Lest I intrude on your valuable time and pages, permit 
me to inform you, for the benefit of your readers, how I keep 
my apples. Six years ago I had a large crop of the apple 
we call Golden Knob; it is known at Covent Garden by the 
names of Old Maid, or Old Lady, and is the best bearer of 
any I know. A neighbour of mine, Mr. Woods, on the 9th 
Noy. 1819, gathered from one tree the immense quantity of 
68 bushels and a half, not including what fell prematurely, so 
that there could not have been less than 70 bushels; the tree is 
about 45 feet in diameter and 135 in circumference, and stands 
in a hedge-row upon the estate of William Collyer, Esq. 
The same year a Mr. Graham had 200 busheis, the produce of 
only four trees! That year I tried an experiment to preserve 
some apples in aridge of earth, in the same way we do pota- 
toes in this part of the country. I had a trench dug five feet 
wide, one foot below the surface of the ground, and 12 feet long. 
I covered the bottom and sides with turf, the grassy side up- 
wards, and then filled the space with Golden Knobs, and some 
French Crabs, about 24 feet deep in the centre, sloping a 
little to the sides; I then covered them close with turf, the 
grassy side next the fruit, to keep them clean. I next had the 
ridge covered with mould a foot thick, to keep out the frost, 
and exclude the external air. In the end of April 1820, I had 
them taken out in fine preservation. I again last Autumn kept 
50 bushels in the same way with equal success. If you deem 
this or any part of it worthy ofa place in your Gardener’s Ma- 
gazine, it is at your service. I am, dear Sir, yours, &c. 

Rogert Donan. 
Woking Nursery, April29. 1826. 


Art. 1X. Some Account of the Gardens, and State of Gar- 
dening in Denmark. By Mr. Jens PErvERrsEN, of Copen- 
hagen, now studying the Art and Practice of Gardening 
in England. 


Tue climate and circumstances of Denmark are much less 
favourable to gardening than those of Britain ; yet horticulture 
u 2 


270 Gardening of Denmark. 


is very successfully practised, especially round the capital. 
The flowers generally cultivated, are roses, carnations, 
stocks, hyacinths, tulips, &c. and herbaceous, biennial, and 
annual plants. Great collections of stove and green house 
plants are not commonly seen in noblemen or gentle- 
men’s gardens, except of the old species. The fine New 
Holland plants, such as Banksia, Epacris, all the new 
Acacias and Melaleucas, &c. are wanting, except what 
there is in the botanic gardens. ‘The great and fine col- 
lections of American plants, as Rhododendron, Azalea, 
Magnolia, &c. are very rare; at least the finer kinds cultivated 
in Britain ; and all require the protection of a house during 
our severe winters, and to be kept in large pots ortubs. In 
this way even the common laurel must be treated. 

There are very fine apples, pears, plums, cherries, goose- 
berries, currants, &c. grown in abundance. 

The principal gardens are the Royal Gardens near Copen- 
hagen; but there are many noblemen and gentlemen’s places 
throughout the kingdom, kept in good order, and beautifully 
situated. 

Fredriksberg, his Danish majesty’s Summer residence, 
about two miles from Copenhagen, is a most delightful seat ; 
this extensive palace is situated on a hill in the pleasure- 
ground, from whence is a beautiful view over the greater part 
of Copenhagen, and some partof the Sound. ‘The pleasure- 
ground is extensive, and laid out in the Dutch manner. During 
the last twenty years great alterations and improvements have 
been made, in the English style, and continue to be made to 
a certain extent every year. It is one of the finest pleasure- 
grounds in Denmark. A fine canal runs through the garden, 
over which are several handsome bridges, and there is a 
beautiful little island, called the Chinese Island, besides many 
other garden scenes which greatly add to its natural beauty. 
During all the Summer season the garden is open to the 
public from early in the morning till late at night. The 
forcing department, kitchen garden, orchard, &c. are very 

extensive, and kept in very good order. The head gar- 
dener, Mr. Peterson, who held this situation a number of years, 
died lately. 

Sondermarken, a beautiful extensive park, belongs to the 
palace, and is situated near it; it is devoted exclusively to the 
royal family, and is more like a pleasure-ground than a park. 

The Royal Gardens at Rosenburgh, near Copenhagen, are 
particularly remarkable for their extensive and well managed 
forcing-ground; in which are grown fine fruits for the royal 


Gardens of Denmark. 271 


table, and select flowers. The present and well-known head 
gardener, Mr. Lindegaard, the first horticulturist in Denmark, 
grows the best fruits and flowers in the country. Here is 
the finest and most extensive orangery, and the best managed 
peach trees and vines, both in hot-houses and in the open 
air. 

Mr. Lindegaard introduced the method of rearing peach- 
trees in Denmark, and particularly the mode of preserving them 
during the first and second Winter after budding. They were 
formerly always imported from Holland, but that expence has 
through him been prevented. Peach-trees are chiefly trained 
on wooden walls, and during severe frosts are covered with 
straw mats. ‘The kind grown in general is the Double Mon- 
tagne (the English Montauban) which ripens its fruit without 
artificial heat about the end of August. Mr. Lindegaard’s 
trees are as finely trained as any I have seen in England. 

The sorts of grapes mostly cultivated, and also the hardiest, 
which often produce in good warm Summers, by Mr. Lin- 
degaard’s treatment, fine ripe fruit upon walls without any ar- 
tificial heat or covering, are the white Van der Lahn, Chasselas 
blanc (I think it is the common white Muscadine), and the 
Wasser siet (undoubtedly the small white cluster). The Parsille 
druen (the parsley-leaved Malmsey Muscadine) is likewise 
hardy, but does not set well if the weather is cold when it 
is in bloom. eagle 

The Frankendalen, (black Muscadine) and Pottebakker, 
(the black Hamburgh) are generally grown in vineries, as 
their ripenmg on open walls is very uncertain, though it 
sometimes occurs in hot Summers. ‘The white Sweet-water 
(Perle druen) is the finest white grape known in Denmark, 
and always planted in vineries. All Mr. Lindegaard’s forcing, 
of every description, is effected by dung heat alone; his early 
peaches and grapes ripen every year in the month of June, 
and in general he has grapes all the year round. 

The pleasure-garden has during the last five or six years 
been much improved; like Fredriksborg garden, it is open 
every day in the year for respectable-looking people. During 
the Summer season there is music in both gardens once a week, 
performed by military bands, at the king’s expence. 

Sorgenfrie, (fig. 54.) the residence of his royal highness Prince 
Christian Frederick (the Crown Prince), is about six miles from 
Copenhagen. The palace is situated on a hill, and surrounded 
by a beautiful park, and the neighbourhood is said to be the 
finest part of the country for natural beauty. His royal 
highness improves this place every year, and the pleasure- 
grounds are open to the public all the year round. As their 

U 3 


272 Gardens of Denmark. 


royal highnesses are as great or perhaps greater lovers of 
gardening than any other royal individuals in the kingdom, 
the art will no doubt be carried to great perfection in this de- 


lightful place. 


54 


The botanic garden, which is situated at Charlotten- 
burgh, is well managed, and the collection is reckoned very 
good, and particularly rich in hardy plants. The botanic 
professor is Mr. Hornemann, a highly-respected botanist in 
Denmark, and the chief botanic gardener Mr. Holboll, a man 
known by almost every gardener in the kingdom for his su- 
perior skill and ability in his business. Without any excep- 
tion whatever, Mr. Lindegaard and Mr. Holboll are the two 
first practical gardeners in Denmark; both of them are 
highly respected by the royal family and nobility, and people 
in general. The catalogue of plants in the botanic garden 
at Copenhagen is to be had at the booksellers there by the 
title of ‘“* Hortus Hafniensis.” 

Charlottenlund, Fredensborg, Fredriksborg, Jeegerspriis, 
Marienlyst, &c. are all royal seats, but none of the royal 
family live there, except in Charlottenlund; nevertheless the 
situations of the others make them worthy of notice. Charlot- 
tenlund, about four miles from Copenhagen, is remarkable for 
its beautiful park, which, during the Summer season, and 
chiefly on Sundays, is crowded with thousands of people. 

Two miles from Copenhagen is a little island called Ama- 
ger, about six miles long and five broad; the greater part of 
this island consistsof market gardens, and was, more than two 


Anomaly in Lilium. 273 


centuries ago, peopled by Dutch gardeners, who were sent for 
to cultivate culinary vegetables. ‘This island supplies the 
greater part of Copenhagen with vegetables, which are grown 
to great perfection. ‘The inhabitants wear a distinct dress 
from all other people in the kingdom. 

There are several other good market gardens in the 
country, particularly about Copenhagen; every nurseryman 
grows vegetables and fruits for the market, so that there is 
very little difference here between nurserymen and market 
gardeners, only that some of them grow more flowers and 
fruit trees, and less vegetables than others. 

Sea-kail and mushrooms are not cultivated in the country, 
unless it may have been done lately; all sorts of culinary 
vegetables in general cultivation are grown there as plentifully 
as in Britain. 

Camellia Japonica, and its many beautiful varieties, are as 
seldom to be seen in Denmark as Banksia grandis is in Eng- 
land; but no doubt it will be otherwise in time, and the 
American plants will also be seen more plentifully. 

Pine-apples are grown in great quantities in the two royal 
gardens of Rosenburgh and Fredriksberg; and at Sorgentrie 
they are likewise well grown according to their methods, 
though not so plentiful as in the former places; this valuable 
fruit is also cultivated in several noblemen and gentlemen’s 
places throughout the kingdom, but is nowhere seen equal to 
the fifteen and eighteen months’ old fruiting plants of Messrs. 
Munro, Johnson Shannon, Nolan, and Plimley. The Old 
Queen is the only sort grown in Denmark. 

Iam, Sir, &e. 
JENs PETERSEN 
Lees’ Nursery, Hammersmith, April 18. 


The above paper, written in English by a foreign gardener 
lad, who has not yet been 18 months in England, is a proof of 
what may be done by a desire to excel, and by persevering in 
the means.—Cond. 


Art. X. On an anomalous Appearance in some Species of 
Lilium. By E. M. Barnes, Esq. Surgeon, Hendon. 


GENERATION is the most interesting part of physiology, 
whether it be of the animal or of the vegetable kingdom, and any 
unusual attempt in plants to propagate their species, deserves 
record, as being equally interesting to the philosopher and to 
the horticulturist. 

U 4 


274 On Reverse Grafting. 


A few plants of Lilium candidum were growing in a damp 
shady corner, in loam approaching to clay; and though the 
flowers were formed they never fully expanded. As the leaves 
of this plant at its flowering season begin to appear unsightly, 
all the plants were cut down to within a foot of the ground. In 
the Autumn much surprise was excited by two of the plants 
showing bulbs at the axillze of the remaining leaves; not like 
those of L. bulbiferum and tigrinum, but soft, white, and suc- 
culent, and composed of several scales, being about the size of 
a small hazel nut. 

A bulb of L. canadense, var. rubrum, was planted in bog- 
earth; not showing any leaves in June, the upper part of the 
bulb was carefully exposed, but appearing very white, (the in- 
contestible mark of health in the North American species,) it 
was covered, and allowed to remain until the Autumn, when it 
was taken up and examined ; several new and large bulbs had 
formed, so as to increase it to triple its former bulk. ‘The mode 
of increase in the North American species (at least in Canadense 
and superbum) appears peculiar; the parent and young bulbs 
are connected somewhat in the manner of Tulipa sylvestris. 

I have seen the leaf of Lachenalia tricolor form bulbs on the 
torn edge, when it has been half divided by accident. 

I am, Sir, &c. 
Hendon, Middlesex, May 2. E. M. Barnes. 


Arr. XI. Observations on Reverse Grafting. By Mr. Wit- 
Liam Ba.rour, Gardener to the Earl Gray, at Howick. 
Sir, . 
I nave been favoured by a friend with a sight of your Gar- 
dener’s Magazine, in which I perceive you have noticed my 
method of reverse grafting in rather an illiberal manner. From 
the respect you appear to have for improvement in general, 
and particularly in gardening, I should have expected that an 
improvement, however simple, would have been treated by you 
in a different manner. You go on by saying,—“ All these ad- 
vantages may be much more readily attained by reversing the 
young side-shoots.” I have proved by experience, that reversed 
side-shoots do not come into bearing, nor are they so easily kept 
within due bounds as are the shoots from reverse grafts; and, 
moreover, shoots cannot be made to break from a desired spot, 
while a graft may be put on wherever you please; and, be- 
sides, reverse-training the side-shoots would net alter the kind, 
which may at some times be desivable. In all horizontal 


Gardens of Cottages. 275 
trained trees, young shoots seldom issue from the main stem 
without amputation. I grant, that trees grafted and trained 
in the reverse manner cannot be kept in exact uniformity of 
training ;— utility was my object, as also neatness of training, 
so far as the nature of the thing will admit. I must say, that I 
do not envy the taste of the person who would prefer a tree 
trained in exact symmetry, bearing leaves only, to one trained 
somewhat irregular, bearing a crop of fruit; and to keep a tree 
in regular bearing, a succession of young shoots. must be an- 
nually laid in. ; 

I am, Sir, &c. 
Wm. Batrour. 
Howick, April 14. 1826. 


Art. XII. On improving the Gardens of Cottages, as practised 
by the late Lord Cawdor at Stackpole Court, in Pembroke- 
shire. Communicated by Mr. Witt1am Bucuan, F.H.S., 
Gardener to Lord Bagot, at Blithfield, near Litchfield. 


Sir, 

In your Gardener’s Magazine, 1 have seen a paper on 
the benefits to be derived by the country labourer from a 
garden, and the means of teaching him how to acquire those 
benefits, by William Stevenson, Esq.; and considering that 
it might be of service to some of your readers, I shall en- 
deavour to describe a method of teaching labourers to benefit 
by their gardens, which differs from Mr. Stevenson’s, and 
which, in the hands of an indulgent master, I have in some 
measure been instrumental in effecting, when in the service of 
the late Lord Cawdor, at Stackpole Court, in Pembrokeshire. 

His lordship, ever anxious to promote the comforts of his 
dependants, gave directions for additional chambers, and a 
better system of ventilation in his cottages; to repair the ex- 
terior in the cottage style, and build new ones where wanted. 
I was then instructed to put the gardens in a proper form 
behind each cottage, and to make a court in front, for the cul- 
tivation of flowers. I furnished them with such fruit-trees as 
were best adapted for that climate, and stocked their courts 
with herbaceous plants, shrubs, and creepers of the common 
kinds; informing the cottagers at the same time, that they 
would have to keep the whole in good order for the future; 
and I must here observe, that the information was not received 
with a good grace by some of them, prejudiced as they were 
against the introduction of any thing new. 


276 Gardens of Cottages. 


Five premiums or rewards, of different value, were then 
offered to those who had the best cultivated garden, and most 
flowers in their courts, and about the 10th of August I in- 
spected their gardens, and awarded the premiums. As the 
garden labourers, from the nature of their employment, had 
some advantage over the others, they were not allowed to 
compete with them, but were competitors among themselves ; 
and the premiums were not confined to those who had had 
their gardens*put in form for them, but extended to the cot- 
tagers of the three parishes. 

The successful candidates were so elated with the idea of 
having gained a prize, and the others flattered with the hope 
of doing the same the following season, that the spirit of gar- 
dening soon became general, and cuttings of fruit-trees, plants, 
and flower-seeds, were in great request with those very indi- 
viduals who were most prejudiced against them at the form- 
ation of their little gardens. 

The village of Stackpole was now frequented in the Summer 
season by the ladies and gentlemen of the neighbourhood, to 
see the flowers and improvements of the cottages; and many 
of the labourers, who had worked about the gardens for years, 
and never asked the name of a plant, began to ask the names 
of flowers that a certain lady or gentleman had admired the 
preceding day. 

Two years before I left Stackpole Court, the premiums were 
discontinued, being considered unnecessary; and it was gra- 
tifying to see that the cottagers paid the same attention to their 
gardens, in the evenings and mornings, as usual ; they had ex- 
perienced the comfort and advantage arising from so doing ; 
for their fruit-trees were now in a bearing state, and their 
market for common fruits and early vegetables was tolerably 
good. 

i Having seen the desired effect accomplished, by the above 
method of teaching labourers to benefit by their gardens, I 
should be happy to hear of that, or a similar method, being 
adopted by those who have it in their power ; and the poor man’s 
cottage made comfortable and ornamental in scenery, instead 
of the levelling system which is practised by many. 
Iam, Sir, &c. 

Witiiam Bucuay. 


Blithfield, May 13th, 1826. 


Weearnestly recommend to our readers the practice recom- 
mended in the above communication. There is scarcely any 
person fond of gardening, and of promoting the comfort of his 


Cottage Gardening and Cottagers. 277 


fellow-creatures, who might not do something. The humblest 
individual might give away seeds or plants, and, wherever he 
saw them, commend neatness and good crops, and blame 
slovenliness. Clergymen might do much in this way. Village 
clubs might be formed by the richer inhabitants, for giving in- 
structions verbally and by printed tracts, and also seeds and 
plants, and awarding premiums to their more humble neigh- 
bours, in Lord Cawdor’s manner. On large properties, where 
all or most of the cottages belong to, or are held of one indi- 
vidual, the premiums, &c., should be given by him, and the 
mode described above seems to be the best hitherto devised. 
Many country gentlemen only require to have a good thing 
such as this proposed to them, in order to its adoption. We 
recommend such gardeners as can do it, to hint the thing in a 
proper manner to their masters, and especially to their mis- 
tresses, and the young ladies of the family. A great deal is 
yet to be done both in the horticultural and architectural im- 
provement of cottage residences. Even the best sorts of apples, 
to ensure a succession of that fruit to the cottager throughout 
the year, are not generally known. We earnestly request in- 
formation on every thing relating to the improvement of cot- 
tagers and cottages. One movement of improvement given 
to the lowest classes will produce an impulse through all 
those above them; but the reverse does not happen so quickly. 
When speaking on this subject to country gentlemen, we have 
frequently been told of the impossibility of overcoming the 
habits and prejudices, and even vices, of the lower classes on 
their estates; but though this may not be done at once, and 
entirely, it may be done by degrees, and in great part. The 
very reason of these bad habits and prejudices, is the neglect 
and bad treatment of the superior classes, for the same reason 
that the rudeness of the populace of the metropolis, when they 
get into public gardens, museums, &c., is because they are gene- 
rally excluded from such places. Were they as commonly ad- 
mitted to them as in France and Germany, they would do 
them as little injury as in these countries; and were all cot- 
tagers treated like Lord Cawdor’s, they would, in time, be- 
come as industrious and amiable. It is a common case 
with masters of all classes to think that their servants have 
more faults than those of others; but this, we suspect, is 
a vice belonging to the condition of masters. Buonaparte ob- 
served to M. Rochelle, that * children and servants are 
just what we make them.” The same thing may be said of the 
cottagers on gentlemen’s estates. —Cond. 


278 ‘¢ Wilmot’s Superb” Strawberry. 


Arr. XIII. On the Cultivation in the Open Garden and 

Treatment in the Forcing-house of the Strawberry known as 

‘© Wilmot’s Superb.” By Mr. Isaac Oxtpacre F. H.S. 

Gardener to the Emperor of Russia. 

Sir, 

Havine had an opportunity of observing the progress of 
s¢ Wilmot’s superb” strawberry from its first production, 
with the cultivation and management practised by Mr. Wilmot, 
I flatter myself a few remarks on it will be acceptable to 
the numerous readers of the Gardener’s Magazine. The ex- 
cellence of this strawberry is too well known in the metropolis 
and its vicinity to require any comment; nor do I think any 
fruit garden can be complete without this fruit. Its ripening 
later than the pine, and most other strawberries, enhances its 
value considerably. 

The plants being stronger in their growth than any of the 
other varieties, they are planted at a greater distance from 
each other. The rows are two feet and a half apart, and 
the plants two feet, plant from plant, in the rows. They are 
left to grow in single stools, and the ground betwixt them is 
always kept free from weeds. Where the runners are not 
wanted to make plants for new plantations, they are taken off 
as they appear, because if suffered to grow they would weaken 
the old plants, and prevent them from producing their fruit 
so large the following year. They thrive best in a rich 
loamy soil. 

This strawberry, if not put into the forcing-house till the 
end of February, or beginning of March, forces well; the fruit 
does not set well in a high temperature; from 50° to 55° is the 
heat that suits them best, with a free admission of air in the 
middle of the day until the fruit is set; after that they will 
bear a stronger heat. 

A very good description of this strawberry has been given 
in the Horticultural Transactions, vol. vi. p. 208. (and Gard. 
Mag. p. 230.) I am, Sir, yours, &c. 

Spring Grove, March 6th, 1826. Isaac OLDACRE, 


Art. XIV. On the Importance of Regularity and Systematic 
Conduct in Practical Gardeners. By G. R. Gardener, 
Champion Hill, Surrey. 

Sir, 
Wir every disposition to support the Gardener’s Ma- 
gazine, from the conviction of its universal utility among 


Conduct of Gardeners. 279 


practical gardeners, I avail myself of your general invitation 
to forward a few remarks, which, in my opinion, may not 
prove altogether useless. 

In the course of my practice as a gardener, I have ob- 
served that gentlemen are frequently deprived of the proper 
returns which their gardens ought to yield, and also gardeners 
of their situations, more from the neglect than from the in- 
capacity of the practitioner. Such are the effects of this negli- 
gence, which, I am sorry to say, too generally prevails ; but 
the causes are not so easily ascertained, as the sources are 
various from whence they originate. I will therefore decline 
entering into details, but state generally, that regularity, 
method, and attention, constitute the very essence of garden- 
ing, and every deviation from these principles will prove in- 
jurious both to the interests of the employer and the 
employed. 

Is it not by dint of perseverance, assiduous attention, and 
steady conduct, that day-labourers, of whom your correspon- 
dent Mr. M‘Naughton complains, have been enabled so to 
undermine and intrude on the province of the practical 
gardener? And for this intrusion who is blameable? — I 
unhesitatingly answer, the practical gardener himself. How 
frequently, although the confession be painful, do we per- 
ceive a garden in all its various departments flourish in a 
superior manner under the superintendence of the attentive day 
labourer? His predecessor, perhaps, had been regularly in- 
structed under an able tutor, and fully competent to the task 
he had undertaken, but completely distanced in all his under- 
takings merely on account of his own careless and inattentive 
manner in regulating his operations. My motive for making 
these remarks is, earnestly to intreat regularly initiated and 
well-educated gardeners, to add to their stock of knowledge, a 
steady conduct, and a regular system of action. Let those 
gardeners who have the true interests of their profession at 
heart, whose ambition it is to excel in their occupation, 
whose abilities enable them to combine the practical with the 
scientific, — let such, I say, consolidate themselves into one 
regular community, and adopt the same principles; and let 
those principles be regularity, method, and attention: and, 
without fear of contradiction, I boldly affirm, they will soon 
obtain that superiority over the ignorant or partially in- 
structed operative, to which théir merit and knowledge will 
render them justly entitled ; — the day labourer will descend 
to his proper station, and the gardener regain his wonted 
ascendancy. : 

Champion Ehill, March 10. 1826. G. R. 


280 Improvement of the London Parks. 


Art. XV. Design for tmproving the Parks, by extending 
Kensington Gardens, and continuing the Serpentine River 
into the Green Park, &c. By Joun THompson, Esq., 
Pictorial Draughtsman and Student of Landscape Gar- 
dening. 


Dear Sir, 

AvaiLine myself of some suggestions of yours, and com- 
bining them with some ideas that occurred to ‘me four or 
five months back, I have put them into a tangible shape ; 
have embodied them in the accompanying sketch, and submit 
them, through the medium of your Magazine, to the consider- 
ation of those who guide the public taste, and have the im- 
provement of our metropolis and the welfare of its inhabitants 
at heart: and although the design must be considered merely 
as a hint, or as an idea, that might be much varied or im- 
proved upon, I feel convinced, that were it adopted, it 
would be greatly conducive towards the beautifying of the 
metropolis, by creating in the midst of our palaces and 
buildings, highly picturesque and tasteful specimens of polished 
scenery; from the conversion of what are now dull and un- 
interesting spaces of grass into a source of comfort and 
pleasurable recreation to all classes inhabiting the interior 
parts of this great city. 

Hyde Park. — Proceeding, therefore, with its elucidation, I 
must beg my readers to refer to the sketch (fg. 55.). Here 
they will find the present wall of Kensington Gardens repre- 
sented by a dotted line (J, g, a, d,). ‘This is to be removed, to- 
gether with the bridge (g) now building. The Serpentine 
water (E) is to be naturalized, brought to one level, and con- 
tinued to Hyde Park Corner. It will thus form the only boun- 
dary betwixt the park(A) and the gardens (B). We shall 
then have one noble and unbroken sheet of water, extending 
for more thana mile in length. The next thing is to take the 
lately formed road (4), up to the proposed new gate (c), 
which is to be opposite the centre of a crescent already 
marked out, and carry on the existing road (rr) to where 
there is to be another gate (d), opposite the continuation of 
the Paddington New Road. Here also a small bridge (e) 
is to form the entrance into Kensington Gardens. ‘The 
park road then follows the course of the water, and joins 
that lately formed (f); and having, as I before stated, 
removed the wall of Kensington Gardens (a), the lower 
road (fh) being sufficient for all the purposes of communi- 
cation, the upper one, called Rotten Row, should be de- 
stroyed, and its site occupied by a continuation (££) from 


The three Western Parks. 


y 


ha | 


Y 


ye 
7A 


MY 


My 


MM 


& 


“Ah 
G0 so 


9 
9259 aA 


3.9 


282 The Green Park. 


the existing gate (2) of the garden wall, or any other fence, up 
to Hyde Park Corner. Then the whole space (B), included 
betwixt the fence and the water is to be laid out, and to 
form a part of Kensington Gardens, with several entrances. 
These are all the alterations, additional to what are now going 
on, proposed to be made in Hyde Park; and on contemplating 
them, it will be evident, that a most important and interesting 
change would be effected. Parties coming in their carriages 
would have a continued and delightful drive from one end 
of the water to the other; and the opposite banks would now 
present a varied and agreeable scene, from being converted 
into a garden, and filled with company: or, if walking was 
preferred, a party might enter the gardens at one gate (7), send 
the carriage to the other (e), and find a dry and pleasant walk 
along the water’s edge, free from dust and all annoyances, 
yet enlivened by the carriages and bustle on the other side. ~ 

The Green Park. — The water in Hyde Park is, by means 
of a tunnel, to be continued into the Green Park (C), and, 
spreading along the whole front of Piccadilly, terminate in a 
waterfall; it is also to supply fountains in St. James’s Park. 
Then that portion called Constitution Hill will be converted 
into garden scenery, and at the corner (0), where you now 
enter the Green Park, you will also enter this garden, which 
will in fact be no less than commencing Kensington Gardens 
at St. James’s Palace, and continuing them through the Green 
Park, and, by means of a walk through the tunnel, in one 
uninterrupted extent of nearly two miles, with water the 
whole of the way; and though it is proposed that these 
gardens should be subject to the same regulations as Ken- 
sington Gardens are at present, which do not prevent the ad- 
mission of any decent persons, it might be advisable to remove 
some of the restrictions; but the exclusion of dogs and other 
nuisances is certainly necessary. Such an extent of garden, 
so regulated, and so centrically situated, would create a novei 
and interesting feature in the metropolis, and could not fail 
to ensure the approbation and applause of the public, for so 
materially conducing to their comfort and convenience. In | 
the other part of the Green Park, which will as usual be open 
to the free egress and ingress of the public, I would fill up 
the basin, remove the ranger’s house, continue the iron rail- 
ings all along Piccadilly, and let there be a broad gravel 
walk (ss), running parallel to it, at a sufficient distance to 
avoid the dust, opening by two new gates (p and ¢).— The effect 
of the alterations here will be extremely pleasing. From the 
whole line of Piccadilly the water will act as a foreground to 
a charming view of the Surrey hills, with the Abbey, the new 


St. James's Park. - 283 


palace, and the trees of St. James’s and Buckingham gardens 
in the middle distance, rendering Piccadilly, as a leading en- 
trance into the metropolis, one of its most agreeable streets. 
In making this alteration in the Green Park, I am aware 
that I am abstracting a portion of ground from a spot which 
is more frequented by the lower and middling classes of 
society than any other in London; but it will still be acces- 
sible to them under some restrictions, and being more polished 
and freed from nuisances, cannot but prove more agreeable ; 
however, as I am extremely anxious not to be considered as 
diminishing the enjoyments of these classes, and as I am 
aware that his Majesty and the ministry have a most decided 
objection to any thing of the sort, I would amply compen- 
sate them in appropriating that at present dull, dark-green, 
useless place, the interior of St. James’s Park (p) to their use, - 
by converting it into a source of amusement and admiration 
as follows. 

St. James's Park. —1 propose, as may be seen by reference 
to the sketch, to add circular ends, and a circular centre to 
the canal, for the purpose of introducing fountains (¢¢?), 
which might be supplied from the waste water of the Ser- 
_ pentine, before alluded to; and if there is not enough to 
keep them constantly going, they might only be shown off as 
at Versailles, on particular days, say Sundays, at two o’clock, 
and on all holidays. A broad gravel walk. should pass en- 
tirely round the canal, with others leading to the gates (ww); 
these, with their drainage, will contribute to keep the place 
dry ; and, perhaps, some of the timber should Le taken down, 
as it would be advisable to render the whole as light, cpen, 
airy, and dry as possible; for it is such scenes, totally divested 
of all gloom and repose, that best accord with those pleasur- 
able feelings with which a mechanic or his children seek free 
and unrestrained enjoyment in walking and exercise. ‘The 
gates should be opened and shut at a certain hour, but whilst 
open, subject to no restrictions whatever. It is absolutely 
necessary to close them at night, to prevent the resort of 
improper persons; and to avoid any one being shut in, a 
large bell might toll previous to closing the gates. Having 
now pointed out all my proposed alterations, I have only to 
add, that I am, dear Sir, &c. 

JoHn THOMPSON. 


No. 1. Wellington Street, Waterloo Bridge, 
April 25th, 1826. 


We agree with Mr. Thompson, that if his plan were car- 
ried into execution, it would add greatly both tothe grandeur 
Vor, I No. 3: Xi 


284 Water and Bridge in Hyde Park. 


and recreative enjoyment of the Parks, and though we have 
little hope that it will be attended to in the proper quarter, 
we think it well worth recording as an ingenious speculation. 
The union of the two pieces of water on one level, with other 
connected improvements, we suggested in the Gentleman’s 
Magazine upwards of seven years ago; and more recently 
that of extending the water into the Green Park, and ren- 
dering it the boundary of Kensington Gardens (See Gard. 
Mag. No. 1.); this last part of our plan, however, has no 
chance of being executed, since an enormous stone bridge of 
five arches (fig. 56.) is now being erected to connect the oppo- 


56 


ATT 


Ate 
SSS 


site banks by a carriage road. But whether the upper water 
is to be lowered, a water-fali formed, or the embankment re- 
tained as it is, we have not the slightest hesitation in asserting 
that this bridge is much too high, and altogether dispropor- 
tionately large for the situation. If a water-fall is intended, 
there is not a tithe of the stream or waste necessary to supply 
it; and if the present embankment is to be retained along- 
side the bridge, the effect will be as ridiculous as unpicturesque. 
If the road must be carried over at this point, a low bridge 
supported on iron piles, or one composed of a number of 
low arches, in Claude Lorraine’s manner, (fig. 57.) would be 


Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens. 285 


greatly preferable. ‘These and other things we have suggested 
to the editors of different newspapers and magazines. 

The new entrance-lodges to Hyde Park we greatly approve 
of; as being handsome on every side, and having the yard and 
other requisite appendages, sunk in the ground and judi- 
ciously concealed or disguised. We think there ought to be 
small stone lodges, with fire-places, at the principal garden - 
gates for the comfort of the door-keepers during winter. 
We would encourage all the door-keepers to possess ma- 
gazines, reviews, and newspapers, and lend them out, to 
persons who might be disposed to read them in the garden. 
We would also allow a certain number of coffee-houses, 
both in the gardens and parks, under certain regulations, and 
chiefly for the sale of tea, coffee, milk, and fruit. Each of 
these establishments we would encourage to keep a musician 
of some sort; on great occasions we would admit of fire- 
works, and, once a-week at least, a band should perambulate 
from Mr.'Thompson’s proposed fountains in St. James’s Park, 
to the Greenhouse in Kensington Gardens. This last build- 
ing we would heat in Mr. Sylvester’s manner, and arrange 
it as a winter coffee-house and saloon; the summer coffee- 
houses we should prefer built of wood, and placed in shady 
retired places throughout the garden. 

As amusements for the populace, we would erect. in Hyde 
Park a variety of contrivances for games of amusement, for 
recreation, and for spectacle. ‘Those who have passed any 
time at Vienna, Moscow, Berlin, and Paris, will be able to 
form some idea of what we wish to suggest. To carry these 
things into execution, little more would be necessary than 
grating permission to proper persons, who would willingly 
undertake them with a view to profit. We may be wrong, or 
mistaken as to some particulars; and perhaps if the whole of 
this paper, including Mr.’ Thompson’s observations, were re- 
considered with a view to practice, many improvements might 
suggest themselves; but taking the leading ideas, of —the 
water continued on one level from the north side of Ken- 
sington Gardens to the east side of the Green Park ; — the 
fountains in St. James’s Park ;— ithe continuation of the 
gardens or dressed grounds from St. James’s Palace to Ken- 
sington Palace; —the water as a boundary between the 
garden-scenery and parks; and the introduction of music, 
reading, and refreshments ; — it will not, we think, be denied, 
that they are calculated to produce a degree of public orna- 
ment, and popular enjoyment, beyond any thing that has 
hitherto been proposed. They would probably also tend to 

x2 


286 Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens. 


soften and refine the manners of those who at present are 
acknowledged to be more rude than the same class either in 
France or Germany. 


Since the above was printed, we have seen at the “ Office 
of Woods,” &c., the elevation of the large bridge (jig. 56.), 
with the waterfall delineated under it, the whole width of the 
five arches; but the idea of the waterfall, we were informed, 
had lately been given up. Not to say any thing of the absur- 
dity of building a waterfall of a width (300 feet) that would 
require the Thames itself to cover it properly, in a situation 
where for nine months in the year more than the supply is 
carried off by evaporation ;- we ask if a bridge, which was 
designed of a proper height to admit a waterfall eight feet in 
height underneath, will also be of a proper height without that 
waterfall? We hope this bridge and waterfall are not to be 
considered as a specimen of the manner in which our public 
improvements are directed! What will become of the walk 
in that part of Kensington Gardens, when the embankment 
over which it now passes is removed ? Will a separate bridge 
be erected for it? or will the company walking in the gardens 
mount the high bridge, and go over among the horses and 
carriages? In whatever way this bridge is considered, it is 
bad; and as those who have begun it have felt this so far as 
to give up the waterfall, the best thing they can do is to give 
it up altogether, and make the water the boundary between 
the park and gardens, as in Mr. Thompson’s plan. ‘The 
sum which it will require to complete the bridge, we have no 
hesitation in stating, would more than cover the expence of 
all the improvements proposed in this paper. — A bridge ina 
situation where it is really useful, and especially where it could 
not be done without, is one of the noblest of artificial objects ; 
it shows great power exercised for a beneficent and important 
purpose; but placed where it is not essential, or where the 
water seems to have been made wider in order to increase the 
number of arches, the effect is a sort of mock sublime which is 
proportionately disgusting, because, like figures in wax-work, 
it appears an attempt to deceive, not to delight. If Mr. 
Thompson’s plan were adopted, a foot bridge would be neces- 
sary on another part of the river to carry the public feot-path 
over it to Knightsbridge barracks : how much more satisfactory 
would be the effect of this structure, however slightly it might 
be built, from its unquestionable utility and necessity.x—Cond. 


June 17th. 


287 


PART IL. 


REVIEWS. 


Art. I. Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London, 
‘Vol. VI. Part I. London 1825. 4to. 1 Plate. 

This part of these transactions consists of eight papers, 
occupying 108 pages, and ornamented with a coloured folio 
plate of Marica Sabini. The first paper is on a very im- 
portant subject, and we shall endeavour to give the essence of 
it as completely and plainly as possible. 

1. On Chmmate, considered with regard to Horticulture. By John 
Frederic Daniell, Esq. F.R.S. &c. Read August 17th, 1824. 
Horticulture differs from agriculture by creating artificial 

climates, and agrees with it in the amelioration of the natural 

climate ; the first is effected by an inclosed atmosphere in an 
artificial sructure, and the second by temporary coverings, 
and other means, in the open air. 

“ The basis of the atmosphere has been proved to be of the 
same chemical composition in all the regions of the globe. All 
the varieties of climate will therefore be found to depend upon 
the modifications impressed upon it by light, heat, and moisture, 
and over these, art has obtained, even in the open air, a greater 
influence than at first sight would appear to be possible.” 

Heat is measured by the thermometer; the intensity and 
kinds of light have also been measured by some philosophers, 
but the instrument is not in general use. Moisture is 
measured by the hygrometer, and the one used by Mr. 
Daniell, and also in the Horticultural Society’s garden, is of his 
invention, and sold by Mr. Newman in Lisle-street, London, 
together with the necessary tables and explanations for its 
use. ‘The range of the thermometer in the shade in the open 
air in Britain is from 0° to 90°; in the sun it reaches 135°. 
The changes of moisture extend from 1,000, or saturation, to. 
389, or precipitation, the point at which the moisture begins. 
to fall in the form of dew. 

x 3 


255 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


The improvement of natura: climate consists in avoiding 
the extremes of drought and cold produced im nature, by 
wind and radiation. 

“ The amount of evaporation from the soil, and of exhalation 
from the foliage of the vegetable kingdom, depends upon two 
circumstances, the saturation of the air with moisture, and the 
velocity of its motion. They are in inverse proportion to the 
former, and in direct proportion to the latter. When the air is 
dry, vapour ascends in it with great rapidity from every surface 
capable of affording it, and the energy of this action is greatly 
promoted by wind, which removes it from the exhaling body as 
fast as it is formed, and prevents that accumulation which would 
otherwise arrest the process.” 

“ Over the state of saturation, the horticulturist has little or no 
control in the open air, but over its velocity he has some com- 
mand. He can break the force of the blast by artificial means, 
such as walls, palings, hedges, or other screens ; or he may find 
natural shelter in situations upon the acclivities of hills. Exces- 
sive exhalation is very injurious to many of the processes of 
vegetation, and no small proportion of what is commonly called 
blight, may be attributed to this cause. Evaporation increases 
in a prodigiously rapid ratio with the velocity of the wind, and 
any thing which retards the motion of the latter, is very efficacious 
in diminishing the amount of the former; the same surface, 
which in a calm state of the air would exhale 100 parts of mois- 
ture, would yield 125 in a moderate breeze, and 150 in a high 
wind.” 


The wind from N.E. to 8. E., is drier than that from any 
other quarter of the compass, in the proportion of 814 to 907, 
upon an average of the year. During the prevalence of 
such weather in Spring, the warmth produced by the sun, for 
example against a south wall, is sometimes more injurious 
than useful, by not being accompanied with an increase of 
moisture. The enormous exhalation from the blossoms, thus 
induced, is extremely detrimental; and requires shading from 
the direct rays of the sun. ‘This state of the weather often 
occurs in April, May, and June, but seldom lasts many hours. 
Great mischief, however, may arise in a very small interval of 
time, and the disadvantage of a partial loss of light cannot 
be put in comparison with the probable destruction of blossom 
likely to be incurred. The shelter of mats or of bunting on 
such occasions would often prevent the sudden injury which 
so frequently arises at this period of the year. 

Over the absolute state of the vapour in the air we are 
wholly powerless, and by no system of watering can we affect 
the humidity of the free atmosphere. This is determined in 
the upper regions; it is only, therefore, by indirect methods, 
and chiefly by the selection of proper screens, that we can 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 289 


preserve the more tender shoots of the vegetable kingdom 
from the injurious effects of excessive exhalation. 

Radiation is the power of emitting heat in straight lines, 
independently of contact; it is a property of all matter, but 
_ differs in different kinds of matter. Absorption is another 
general property differing in a similar manner. To prove 
the different radiating powers of bodies, on a clear night place 
a thermometer upon a grass-plat, and another upon a gravel 
walk, or the bare soil; the temperature of the former will be 
found many degrees below that of the latter. “ The fibrous 
texture of the grass is favourable to the emission of the heat, 
but the dense surfaces of the gravel seem to retain and fix it. 
But this unequal effect will only be perceived when the 
atmosphere is unclouded, and a free passage is open into 
space; for even a light mist will arrest the radiant matter in 
its course, and return as much to the radiating body as it 
emits. The intervention of more substantial obstacles will of 
course equally prevent the result, and the balance of tem- 
perature will not be disturbed in any substance which is not 
placed in the clear aspect of the sky. A portion of a grass- 
plat under the protection of a tree or hedge, will generally be 
found, on a clear night, to be eight or ten degrees warmer 
than surrounding unsheltered parts; and it is well known to 
gardeners that less dew and frost are to be found in such 
situations than in those which are wholly exposed.” | 

Radiation during night cools the air on the surface of the 
ground to the temperature of 32° or lower, at least ten months 
of the year, and often in July and August to 35°. - Low vege- 
tation suffers from this cold, but from the foliage of a tree or 
shrub it glides off, and settles upon the ground. It also glides 
off from eminences and settles in hollows. 


«« Any thing which obstructs the free aspect of the sky arrests 
in proportion the progress of this refrigeration, and the slightest 
covering of cloth or matting annihilates it altogether. Trees 
trained upon a wall or paling, or plants sown under their protec- 
tion, are at once cut off from a large portion of this evil; and are 
still farther protected, if within a moderate distance of another 
opposing screen. The most perfect combination for the growth 
of exotic fruits in the open air would be a number of parallel walls 
within a short distance of one another, facing the south-east 
quarter of the heavens; the spaces between each should be 
gravelled, except a narrow border, which should be kept free 
from weeds.” 


The reasons for the gravel and the removal of weeds, the 
gardener will deduce from what has been stated above as to 
x 4 


290 Transactions of the Horticultural Socrety. 


the radiating properties of surfaces. As an excellent com- 
bination for the growth of vegetables in the open garden, we 
would suggest the formation of beds in the direction of east 
and west, the surface of the bed sloping to the south, the 
steeper the better; on these beds sow or plant herbaceous 
vegetables and fruits ; if in rows, let them be from north to 
south, or across the beds; then, to moderate the effects of 
radiation, and evaporation by drying winds, place wattled 
hurdles at the distance of ten or twelve feet across the beds, 
or stick in rows of pease-sticks, or other branches and spray, 
in that direction, during the Winter and Spring months. The 
judicious employment of rows of fruit trees and gooseberries 
will greatly contribute to the same effect in Winter, but are 
injurious by their shade and roots in Summer. The advan- 
tage of hurdles or branches is, that they can be moved at 
pleasure, and that they admit of keeping the ground in sloping 
beds or ridges. 

The system of matting plants, Mr. Daniell thinks, is not 
carried to that extent which its simplicity and efficacy would 
suggest. Mats are generally bound too tight round bushes, 
or laid too close on the ground, or upon glass. ‘To produce 
the full effect, the mat should always be kept at the distance 
of six or eight inches from the body it is meant to protect. 
This doctrine will be found ably illustrated in Dr. Weils’s 
work on dew, and also in those parts of the Encyclopedia of 
Gardening which treat of the construction of hot-houses, and of 
the atmosphere. Asa familar illustration of the principle, we 
shall farther observe, that a person standing before a large 
fire, or fully exposed to the brightest sun, may defend himself 
from excessive heat and light, by holding, at a few inches from 
his body, a sheet of the thinnest muslin; but if that material, 
or any other, is applied to his body in close contact, it will have 
very little influence as ascreen. ‘The same muslin integument 
will be equally effectual or ineffectual in protecting from cold, 
according as it may be placed at a short distance from, or in 
contact with, the body to be protected. A gardener will sel- 
dom go wrong in practice if he bears in mind that heat is given 
out by all bodies in straight lines or rays, as light flows from 
the sun; that those rays of heat may be reflected back again by 
any body, however thin; and that anv covering, whether 
thick or thin, placed in close contact with a heated body, will 
not reflect back its heat, but, on the contrary, if of a dark 
colour, or black, will promote its escape by radiation. 

The above is what may be called the practical essence of 
that part of Mr. Daniell’s paper which treats of the improve- 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 291 


ment of natural climate. By reflecting on it the cultivator will 
be convinced of the reasonableness of many parts of practice, 
which he had, perhaps, followed from habit; he will see and 
feel the importance of walls, copings, hedges, protection from 
the east, from sudden gleams of sunshine, of the warmth re- 
tained by woody undergrowths, and, generally, the advan- 
tages of stagnating air ; of placing gardens on sloping ground, 
of growing crops on ridges, and a great variety of other 
things. He wiil also be able to account for the effects of cold 
in hollow places; for the difference of effect between dry 
cold and moist cold; for the lower branches of a tree being 
sometimes injured by frost, when the upper part has escaped 
injury; of tender plants, in a northern or western exposure, 
sometimes escaping unhurt, and when those against a south 
wall have been killed, &c. 

Artificial climates, Mr. Daniell observes, being entirely de- 
pendant on art, require a more extended acquaintance with 
the laws of nature, and greater skill and experience in the 
means of protection. ‘The plants which require this pro- 
tection are in the most artificial state which it is possible to 
conceive; for not only are their stems and foliage subject to 
the vicissitudes of the air in which they are immersed, but in 
most cases their roots also. ‘The soil in which they are set to 
vegetate is generally contained in porous pots of earthenware, 
to the interior surface of which the tender fibres quickly pene- 
trate, and spread in every direction. They are thus exposed 
to every change of temperature and humidity, and are liable to 
great chills from any sudden increase of evaporation.” 

The inhabitants of the hot-house are all natives of the 
torrid zone, a climate distinguished by an unvarying high de- 
gree of heat, and a very vaporous atmosphere. When air is 
very hot, it will exhale moisture from whatever objects it may 
come in contact with, which possess that quality. In a hot- 
house, when all the paths and walls are in a dry state, exhal- 
ation to an extraordinary degree takes place, from the only 
sources of moisture, — the leaves of plants and the earth in 
their pots. This “ prodigious evaporation,” as Mr. Daniell 
calls it, is injurious to the plants in two ways; first, by chilling 
their roots by evaporation from the surface and sides of the pots, 
on the same principle that water is cooled in Spain and India, 
by being put in porous earthen vessels: and, secondly, by ex- 
hausting the vegetative powers of the plant. Vegetables also 
have the power of absorbing moisture from the atmosphere, 
and must consequently suffer in proportion as this is in a dry 
arid state. Those three considerations show the great im- 
portance of a vaporous atmosphere in hot-houses ; and the way 


292 Zransactions of the Horticultural Society. 


to supply it is, by keeping the floor of the house and the sur- 
face of the flues continually wet, when the temperature is high. 
‘¢ An atmosphere,” Mr. Daniell observes, “of great elasticity, 
may thus be maintained in a way perfectly analogous to the 
natural process. When steam is employed as the means of 
communicating heat, an occasional injection of it into the air 
may also be had recourse to; but this method would require 
much attention on the part of the superintendant, whereas the 
first cannot be easily carried to excess.” 

To obviate the evil effects of cold nights in the Winter season, 
Mr. Daniell suggests the idea of double glass. “ The lights 
of many frames, which are not commonly in use in Winter, 
might, without much trouble, be fitted to slide over the hot- 
houses during the severe season; and in the Spring, when they 
are wanted for other purposes, their places might be supplied 
at night by mats or canvas.” 

The atmosphere of the green-house should be treated like 
that of the hot-house, but not to the same extent. 

Mr. Daniell concludes by observing, that a frequent consult- 
ation of the indications of the hygrometer is quite as necessary 
to the horticulturist as those of the thermometer. Undoubt- 
edly, the hygrometer may be consulted with advantage ; but 
if the gardener, whenever he maintains a high degree of heat 
in the hot-house, takes care to have the paths flooded with 
water, three or four times a-day, he cannot be far wrong ; for 
the atmosphere will take up a certain degree of moisture, ac- 
cording to its temperature, and the remainder on the floor 
can do no harm. In this respect there is an important dif- 
ference between supplying heat and supplying vapour; heat 
may be easily overdone, but not vapour, unless it is supplied 
from aboiler, in the form of steam. The safe course for the 
gardener to pursue, is to maintain a good heat, whether by 
the sun or fire, and keep his hot-house floor continually moist, 
He will thus maintain, as Mr. Daniell observes, “ ina way 
perfectly analogous to the natural process,” an atmosphere of 
the natural and proper degree of humidity. This has been 
done by various gardeners with whom we are acquainted, for 
many years, in some hot-houses for twenty years; and, as an 
instance, near us, we may mention the Comte de Vandes’s 
garden, Bayswater, where it has been practised since 1816, 
and where the plants have been for that time, and now 
are, in a state of luxuriance not to be surpassed. Neo 
hygrometer was ever used there, nor can there be much 
occasion for using it, but for the sake of experiment. At 
any rate, a gardener not having an hygrometer should not 
assign that as a reason for not having the atmosphere of 


Transactions of the Horticultural Soctety. 293 


his hot-house sufficiently charged with vapour We may men- 
tion here, that an eminent cultivator of the pine-apple, who 
has practised the system of keeping the floor of his house 
moist for upwards of twelve years, and raised some of the 
largest fruit ever grown in England, informed us some years 
ago, that he found advantage from occasionally allowing the 
atmosphere of his stove to become quite dry for several hours, 
and afterwards watering every part of it, to fill the air with 
vapour. Variation, even sometimes to extremes, seems pre- 
ferable to uniformity of treatment, however good. This is in. 
perfect unison with Mr. Knight’s papers on this subject. It 
is but doing justice to practical gardeners thus to notice, that 
they have for a number of years past been practising what 
Mr. Daniell states, (p. 25.) has been “ tried at the Horti- 
cultural Society’s garden at my suggestion,” lest it should 
be thought, by general readers, that Mr. D. or the Society 
meant to claim the practice as their invention. 


2. On the Use of Charcoal Dust, as a Top-dressing for Onions, 
and as a Cure for the Clubbing in Cabbages, &c. In a Letter to 
the Secretary. By Mr. Thomas Smith, C.M.H.S., Gardener to 
Matthew Bell, Esq. F.H.S., at Woolsington, Northumberland. 
Read August 3. 1824. 


The charcoal-dust here made use cf, is the refuse of a char- 
coal pit. It is spread upon the ground about half an inch 
thick, before the sowing of the seed, and merely skuffled in 
with the point of a spade, so as to mix the top-soil and char- 
coal-dust together. Six years’ experience have convinced Mr. 
Smith that it is a remedy for the grub and mouldiness in 
onions; and he has repeatedly proved, that it effectually pre- 
vents the clubbing in the roots of cabbages and cauliflowers. 


3. Observations on, and an Account of Plants growing in the 
Neighbourhood of Constantinople, Seeds of which were collected 
and transmitted to the Horticultural Society of London. Ina 
Letter tothe Secretary. By the Rev. Robert Walsh, LL.D. and 
C.M.H.S. Read July 6. 1824. 


Dr. Walsh amused himself in the neighbourhood of Con- 
stantinople, with endeavours to ascertain the identity of the 
plants existing there, with those described by Theophrastus, 
Dioscorides, and Pliny. ‘The following is the result. 

Cercis siliquastrum, but not the kerkis of Theophrastus, 
found clothing the shores of the Bosphorus and Mount 
Libanus : the flowers burst out from every part of the branches 
and trunk, nearly down to the root; are gathered and used 
in sallads. 


294 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


Ceratonia siliqua, described by Dioscorides and Pliny; 
almost the only tree that grows at Malta; also in the islands 
of the Archipelago, and in great abundance in the wilderness 
of Palestine, where its produce is at this day used for food. 
The substance of the pod is thick and pulpy, and remarkably 
sweet and nutritious, resembling manna in taste and consist- 
ence. It is sent from Palestine to Alexandria in ship loads, 
and from thence over the Mediterranien, and as far as Con- 
stantinople, where it is sold in all the shops. It is occasion- 
ally to be bought in London under its Spanish name of 
Algaroba bran. 

Celtis australis; common; conjectured by Sibthorp to be 
the lotos of Dioscorides, which Homer says has so sweet a 
taste, that those who eat it forget their own country. “ It 
bears a berry of a light yellow, which changes to dark brown, 
it has a sweet pleasant taste, and the modern Greeks are very 
fond of it.” 

Cupressus horizontalis, ‘* was supposed by Pliny to be the 
male of C. sempervirens, and modern botanists consider it only 
a variety, but undoubtedly it is a different species. The 
character of the whole tree is distinct and permanent, the 
branches project as horizontally as those of the oak, and the 
tree more resembles a pine than a cypress. It is in great 
abundance, mixed with the C. sempervirens in all the Turkish 
cemeteries. Wherever a Turk of respectability buries one of 
his family, he plants a young cypress at the head of the grave, 
as well because its aromatic resin qualifies the putrid effluvia 
of the place, as because its evergreen foliage is an emblem of 
immortality. It is never planted in the cemeteries of the 
modern Greeks, though it was from them, perhaps, the Turks ~ 
adopted the practice.” 

Diospyros lotus, is not described by the ancients, but is 
found every where along the Bosphorus. ‘ It was originally 
brought from the country between the Euxine and Caspian 
seas ; and is therefore called the date of Trebisonde. It bears 
abundantly a light brown fruit, nearly as large as a walnut, 
which is sometimes sold in the markets under the name of 
Tarabresan Curmasi. ‘The recent fruit is austere, but would 
make a good conserve.” 

Elzeagnus angustifolia, the wild olive of Theophrastus, 
Dioscorides, and Pliny, is common about Constantinople, in 
low moist situations. ‘ ‘The fruit is sold in the markets under 
the name of Ighidé agaghi, and is usually brought from the 
iow grounds about Scutari, and other similar places on the 
Asiatic shore. It abounds with a dry, mealy, saccharine sub- 
stance, which is sweet and pleasant, and has the property of 
retaining a long time its usual size and form.” 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 295 


Rhamnus Zizyphus. ‘ This tree has excited great contro- 
versy among botanists; and Linnzeus, Willdenow, Michaux, 
and Persoon, all differ in their descripticn of it. Shaw sup- 
poses it was like the lotus of Theophrastus and Pliny, and 
Sir James Smith, that it was the paliurus. What is certain, 
however, is, that it is the tree which produces the fruit sold 
in abundance in the markets of Constantinople, under the 
name of Hunnab agaghi, and which has for a long time been 
imported into the west of Europe under the name of Jujube. 
It is minutely and accurately described by Pomet, Lemery, 
and Tournefort, and forms an article in the old Pharma- 
copeeias. I met with it frequently in the Ionian Islands, and 
the Turks of Constantinople plant it before their coffee-houses, 
with other trees, to enjoy the shade and fruit in their season.” 

Rhamnus Paliurus, forms the hedges of Asia, which are 
most impassible fences. ‘ I am disposed to think that this 
is the real Christ’s Thorn, rather than that called Spina 
Christi. The seeds are sold in the herb-shops of Constanti- 
nople, and the native hakims, or doctors, prescribe them in 
many complaints, under the name of Xallé. They are also 
used as a dye.” 

Melia azadaraca was not known to the ancients, though 
found ‘“ abundantly all through the Mediterranean and the 
Archipelago, in Europe, Asia, and Africa. It is always 
planted in the area of a monastery, and the Caloyers, or 
Greek monks, form the ribbed seeds into beads, and hence 
it is called the bead-tree. ‘The white pulpy exterior of the 
seeds is said to be highly poisonous, and Avicenna, the 
Arabian physician, cautions people even against the leaves 
and wood; hence the Arabs call it zederact, which signifies 
poison ; the seeds are never eaten by birds. It is, however, 
a very beautiful tree, with large, compound, pinnate foliage, and 
rich spikes of lilac flowers.” 

Acacia julibrissin; an exceedingly beautiful tree, and the 
largest of the genus; that in the British palace garden at 
Constantinople has a trunk of a foot in diameter. The foliage 
is highly susceptible of the variations of the atmosphere; it 
affords a thick shade on a bright day, but when it threatens 
rain, or when a cloud obscures the sun, the leaflets im- 
mediately close their under surface together, till the sun 
again appears. ‘“ The flowers consist of large pencils or 
clusters of stamens, of a bright pink hue, and rich silky texture, 
and hence the Turks, who are particularly fond of the tree, 
have given it the soft and fanciful name of gul-ibrisim, the 
silk-rose, and hence is derived its specific name with botanists. 
It is now found in all the gardens of the Bosphorus, but it is 
not a native, nor is it described by the ancients.” 


296 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


Pistacia terebinthus, known and described by Dioscorides, 
Theophrastus, and Pliny. Gnat-like insects breed in the leaves, 
the cuticles of which, by being punctured, become fungous, 
and swell into fleshy follicles, of a bright scarlet hue, strong 
resinous odour, and clammy feel, full of turpentine. “ ‘These 
are so abundant, sometimes, as to cover the whole surface of 
the tree, and give it the appearance of bearing rich flowers or 
fruit. The trunk of the tree, when perforated, yields abund- 
antly that fine resinous oil called Cyprus turpentine. For its 
aromatic quality, the Greeks and Armenians plant the tree in 
their cemeteries, as they do the cypress. Here the ‘Turks 
make them butts to discharge their topheks or pistols at; the 
stems, therefore, are all perforated, and continually, in the 
season, stream with turpentine. ‘There is one in the British 
palace garden, which has been noticed by Sestini and others, 
for its size and remarkable beauty: it measures twelve feet in 
circumference, rises nearly as high as the top of the palace, 
and shades a circle of one hundred and eighty yards. Not- 
withstanding their size, they are sometimes epiphitical, grow- 
ing out of other trees. A phenomenon of this kind exists at 
the promontory of Chalezedon, where an enormous pistacia 
is growing out of a more enormous cypress ; and this is noticed 
by Andreossi in his work sur le Bosphore. They grow 
every where among the ruins of the walls of Constantinople, 
particularly in the breach where the Turks entered, “ mark- 
ee, as Clarke says, “ the spot where the last of the Paleologi 
ell 

Pistacia lentiscus,common in the days of Theophrastus and 
Dioscorides, as at present, in the island of Scio, and producing 
then as now, great abundance of the transparent gum called 
mastic. It is much used by Turkish women to preserve their 
teeth and improve their breath. 

Smilax aspera and excelsa; described by ‘Theophrastus ; 
common in the woods and hills of the Bosphorus; and the 
roots are used in decoctions as a substitute for sarsaparilla. 
“° S. excelsa climbs to the top of the highest trees, and de- 
scending in streaming branches, forms a lofty green wall by 
the road side, which looks curious; and when covered with 
a profusion of rich red berries, in Autumn, is very beautiful. 
It is well adapted for forming arbours.” 

Euonymus Europzeus var. The aril is of a rich scarlet, 
which, when the pod opens, becomes conspicuous and re- 
markable. 

Cassia sp.? ‘The leaves are used for those of senna, to 
which they have a strong resemblance. 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 297 


Hedera chrysocarpa. Dioscorides and Pliny. Rare, seeds 
medicinal. ; 

Prunus cerasus, two varieties. ‘* The first of these va- 
rieties is a cherry of enormous size, which grows along the 
northern coast of Asia Minor, from whence the original 
cherry was brought to Europe. It is cultivated in gardens, 
always as a standard, and bya graft. ‘The gardens there 
consist wholly of cherry-trees, and each garden occupies 
several acres of ground. You are permitted to enter these, 
and eat as much fruit as you please, without payment; but, 
if you wish to take any with you, you pay ten paras an oke, 
about a half-penny per pound. ‘The second variety is an 
amber-coloured transparent cherry, of a delicious flavour. It 
grows in the woods, in the interior of Asia Minor, particularly 
on the banks of the Sakari, the ancient Sangarius. ‘The 
trees attain a gigantic size; they are ascended by perpendi- 
‘ cular ladders, suspended from the lowest branches. I mea- 
sured the trunk of one: the circumference was five feet; and 
the height, where the first branches issued, forty feet ; 
the summit of the highest branch was from 90 to 100 feet, 
and this immense tree was loaded with fruit.” 

Phoenix dactylifera. ‘ A fruit-bearing branch of this tree 
was sent to me from Damietta, in Egypt, as a kind which is 
rare, and highly prized. The fruit was not ripe; but I was 
directed to cover the end of the branch with a piece of bladder, 
and hang the branch against the wall: the fruit, by this pro- 
cess, gradually ripened, of a large size and good flavour.” 

latanus orientalis. ‘The ‘Turks on the birth of a son, 
plant a platanus; as they do a cypress on the death of one. 
In the court of the seraglio is a venerable tree of this species, 
which, tradition says, was planted by Mahomet II. after the 
taking of Constantinople, to commemorate the birth of his 
son, Bajazet II., the trunk of which is fifty feet in circum- 
ference. ‘There is another of more enormous size at Buyuk- 
deré, on the Bosphorus ; it stands in a valley, and measures 
forty-five yards in circumference! It, in fact, now consists of 
fourteen large trees, growing in a circle from the same root, 
but separating at some distance from the ground. The Turks 
sometimes encamp here; and the Ben Bashee pitches his 
tents in the centre of this tree of trees. “The immense size to 
which the platanus attains has been the wonder of antiquity: 
Pliny describes several, in one of which Lucinius Mucianus 
gave a supper to a company of twenty-two friends.” 

Ricinus Communis. Called Kroton, and Ricinus, from 
the resemblance of the seeds to the tick insect, which fastens 
on dogs’ ears. Seeds taken as pills for a purgative ; abundant 


298 Transactions of the Horticultural Soczety. 


on the rock of Gibraltar, but does not ripen its seeds on the 
Bosphorus. 

Cistus crispus, creticus, and salvifolius, “ cover all the 
hills in the islands of the Archipelago and sea of Marmora; 
they are gummiferous, and, in June and July, secrete co- 
piously a very fragrant gum, which adheres to the goats’ beards 
that browse on the plant, and is combed off, like the ladanum, 
for which it is sometimes substituted. They are all distin- 
tinguished by hypocistis, a succulent parasitic, of a rich red 
colour, which I found growing from the roots, as described by 
Dioscorides.” 

Poterium spinosum; common among the above-named 
cisti, with prickly branches, like furze in England; known to 
the ancients, but whether under the name of stoebe or poterion 
is uncertain. 

Vitex agnus-castus; found on the banks of all the rivers of 
Greece and Asia Minor, along with nerium oleander. It 
was called agnos (lamb) by the ancients, because carried by 
the priestesses in the feast of Ceres, a lamb being the usual 
animal sacrificed. 

Quercus egilops, coccifera, and pubescens ; common in the 
islands of the Archipelago. ; 

Pinus maritima, and pinea; common in the islands of the 
sea of Marmora. ‘ The cones of P. pinea are gathered 
and sold in the markets. When exposed to the fire, they 
open, and the seeds, as large as hazel-nuts, then drop out; 
they are eaten like nuts, and called by the Turks fistik.” 

Lavandula stoechas; the latter name by Dioscorides from 
the Stoechades, now the Hieres Islands, near Marseilles, from 
whence it first came. It is very difficult to cultivate in.a 
garden. It covers the hills in all the islands of the Archi- 
pelago and sea of Marmora. 

Ruscus racemosus, the Daphne Alexandria, or Alex- 
andrian laurel of Dicscorides, found in the islands of the Archi- 
pelago. : 

Keelreuteria paniculata; a native of China. <A plant re- 
maining in what was Sherard’s garden at ‘Tedikui, about 
ten miles from Smyrna. 

Artemisia sp. Pretty, aromatic; produced spontaneously 
in gardens, and used in salads. 

Erigeron graveolens. The conyza of Dioscorides; stinking ; 
used against the bite of all manner of vermin, found in large 
patches in the islands of Marmora. 

Pancratium maritimum, called Pancration, or all-excelling, by 
Dioscorides. ‘ lorskal found it in great abundance in Palestine, 
and supposes it was the lily of the Scripture, like to which, 
our Saviour said, Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed. 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 299 


It grows in all the sandy plains of Asia Minor, and is pro- 
pagated by seed as well as bulbs. I found it among the ruins 
of Teos, and am disposed to think it was the lily of Anacreon.” 

Arum dracunculus. Dioscorides. Found in the plains of 
Brusa. 

Ferula sp.: eight feet high; covers the islands of Mar- 
mora like a forest of young trees; the narthex of Dioscoridés, 
and ferula of Pliny. . 

_ Phytolacca decandra ; introduced to Constantinople from 
America, along with tobacco, now common in humid situa- 
tions. ‘ The berries yielded a rich purple juice, which was 
formerly used to colour red wine, but is now confined tosherbet 
sugar, which the Turks manufacture of a rich red colour.” 

Cyperus esculentus. The tuberous knobs of the roots are 
sold in the markets. The manna of the Greeks, abdalassis 
of the Turks; and kuperios of Dioscorides. : 

Centaurea solstitialis ; pretty; found sparingly on the hills 
about Constantinople. 

Momordica elaterium. Pliny. The capsule is a tube, 
‘¢ without valves, from whence the seeds seem to be projected 
by a process similar to that of shot from an air-gun, namely, 
the expansion of some elastic fluid within the tube.” It is 
abundant around Constantinople, used in medicine as in Eng 
land, and for jaundice by the Turks, as it was in the time 
of Dioscorides. 

Solanum Egyptiacum, Sodomeum, and Melongena, were 
not known to the ancients. ‘“ The first of them bears a bright 
scarlet fruit; and is a rare plant at Constantinople, never sold 
in the markets, and seldom met with in private gardens. It 
is used in soups.: The second bears a large, rich, dark purple 
fruit, which looks very inyiting. It is sometimes punctured 
by a species of cynips, which gangrenes the fruit, and con- 
verts the interior into a dry powder like ashes, while the out- 
side retains its plump and beautiful aspect, and hence it is 
called the apple of Sodom. Hasselquist found it on the shores 
of the Dead Sea. It is distinguished by spines on the stem 
and calyx. The third bears a long black fruit, of which there 
are several varieties in shape and colour. It is sold in the 
markets in almost as great abundance as gourds and melons, 
and used in the same manner in soups. It is called by the 
Turks patlindjam ; and its first appearance in the markets is 
always attended with a strong N.E. wind, which for that rea- 
son is called in the Armenian Almanack, patlindjam melk- 
tem; and all the ships bound for the Black Sea hasten to 
sail before the fruit appears in the market and the wind sets 
in, as it continues several weeks.” 


Vou. I. No. 3. Y 


300 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


Brassica gongylodes and eruca. “ The first of these has 
a protuberant swelling of the stem, from whence the leaves 
issue, and this is the only part of the plant used. The second 
is a fetid, offensive plant, but highly esteemed by the Greeks 
and Turks, who prefer it to any other salad.” 

Hibiscus esculentus. ‘The unripe pod is stewed with sauce ; 
sold in. the markets green, for immediate use, and dry on 
strings. ‘ i 

Onopordum elatum adorns all the hills about Constanti- 
nople. 

Papaver somniferum ; the Opon of Dioscorides. 

Cicer arietinum and lens. Dioscorides and Pliny. The first 
“is used in great quantities in Constantinople, and mixed with all 
their dishes and pilafs, where itis always wholeand never bruised. 
It is also used in great abundance parched, when it is called 
leblevi. This operation is performed by Arabs, who have 
a peculiar skill in detaching it from the cuticle while toasting 
it. When prepared in this way, it is sold about the streets in 
sieves, by the Arabs, who are called Leblevigé, and form a 
numerous body. The practice of parching this pea is of 
great antiquity ; it is not only mentioned by Plautus and Aris- 
tophanes, but Shaw supposes it tc be the “ parched pulse” 
mentioned in Scripture. The second species is not so abun- 
dant; it is called by the Turks mergiméts. It is flattish on 
one side, and convex on the other, and hence called lens.” 

Phaseolus nanus, and chonda; ‘sold in great abundance 
in the markets, and called by the Turks beyas fasiula, or 
white bean, to distinguish them from scarlet runners.” 

Dolichos lablab ; cultivate? in all the gardens, but not sold 
in the markets. 

Ipomza purpurea, villosa, and coccinea. ‘* These grow in 
Constantinople with great luxuriance and beauty ; they twine 
round poles and climb up trees, forming with their rich and 
varied flowers the brightest wreaths.” 

Amaranthus hybridus and caudatus. ‘The first is a na- 
tive, and grows spontaneously ; the second is exotic; they 
both attain to a great size, altogether uncommon in England. 
The A. caudatus is trained by a pole, and rises to the height 
of six or seven feet, from whence the pendant spikes of flowers 
hang down with great beauty, and are so long as sometimes 
to trail upon the ground.” 

Cucurbita lagenaria and claviformis. ‘ These are varie- 
ties of the same gourd: the first exactly resembles a bottle; 
the second a club, which sometimes attains the length of six 
or seven feet. The ancients were fond of cultivating this 

gourd; and Pliny is minute in describing the mode and uses, 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 301 


which are the same nearly as at the present day. I imagine 
this to have been the real gourd of Jonas. They grow rapidly 
when well watered, and wither immediately when left dry; 
in a few weeks forming dense shady arbours, under which the 
people of the East sit and smoke. When the fruit is young, 
it hangs down inside the arbour like candles; in this state it 
is cut, and boiled with forced meat, stuffed in the hollow part 
with rice; it is then called dolma by the Turks; and is in 
such general use, that a large district in the vicinity of Pera 
is called Dolma Bakché, or Gourd Gardens, from the culti- 
vation of these plants.” 

Cucurbita cidariformis. ‘“ The production of this gourd, 
as given by the ancient writers, is curious : a gourd was planted 
in Campania, in the vicinity of a quince, and it immediately 
adopted its form in addition to its own. In fact it resem- 
bles a large quince, laid on the top of a flat melon. This 
curious fruit is called here the Turk’s turban, which it re- 
sembles in shape and vivid colours. It is too rare to be sold 
in the markets, but is cultivated in private gardens, and used 
in soups.” 

Cucurbita aurantia, and pyriformis. ‘ These exactly re- 
semble the fruit after which they are named; the one an 
orange, and the other a pear.” 

Cucurbita potiro. ‘ The gourd most in use in Constanti- 
nople; the fruit is heaped up in large piles, and kept under 
tents in the markets for six months in the year. ‘There are 
two kinds or varieties : one long, with orange-coloured fruit; 
the other round, with white-coloured fruit. They are called 
by the Turks bal cabaghi, and used in all their soups.” 

Cucurbita sp. ; Evadghi cavac, Turkish; by far the largest 
gourd in these countries ; it is quite white, and in the markets 
resembles huge snow-balls, particularly so, as it is in season 
in winter.” 

Cucurbita citrullus. The famous waier-melon, so highly 
prized and universally used all over the Kast; it is the great 
luxury of the common people in Constantinople, and refreshes 
the hammals, or porters, like ale in England, and tea in 
China. Strangers are warned by writers against the intense 
cold of this fruit; but the people of Constantinople devour it 
alone, without pepper, or any other aromatic, in the hottest 
weather, with perfect impunity. The Turks call it carpoos; 
and give the same name to their artificial globes, from their 
resemblance to this fruit, which is a perfect sphere. 

Cucumis melo; several varieties. ‘ Six varieties of melon 
are cultivated in Asia Minor, particularly about Angora. — 
There is one variety so very delicate, that the seeds were given 

y 2 


302 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


to me carefully sealed up in a bottle, with directions that it 
should not be opened till the seeds were about to be sown, 
lest the essence should evaporate. The following directions 
were also sent as to the time and manner of cultivation: — 
In the beginning of May the seeds are thrown into water; 
those that float are thrown away, and those that sink are suf- 
fered to remain twelve hours. ‘The ground is chosen rich, 
and manured with pigeon’s dung. A small cavity is made, in 
which several seeds are sown together; when they come up, 
three or four only of the most vigorous plants are suffered to 
remain, the rest are pulled up and thrown away. The fruit 
ripens in August, and is so rich that. no sugar or other sea- 
soning is ever used with it. The other kinds of melons cul- 
tivated about Constantinople, and sold in the markets, are 
called by the general name of cavun; and, when they are 
larger or longer than usual, vodind cavun They generally 
sell for about twenty paras the oke, or about a penny per 
pound. One variety is called kiskaduo by the Turks, and 
is much esteemed.” 


4. On the Cultivation of the Madeira Vaccinium, (V. Padifolium 
of Smith, and Hort. Brit.) in the Open Air. In a Letter to the 
Secretary. By Mr. William Foulk, Gardener to Sir Everard 
Home, Bart., F.H.S., at Ham, Surrey. Read Dec. 7. 1824. 


This vaccinium is of luxurious growth in bog-earth; it 
bears freely, and ripens early in October, so as to come in 
succession to currants and raspberries. It is used like the 
cranberry. 


5. Report upon the New or Rare Plants which have flowered in 
the Garden of the Horticultural Society at Chiswick, from its first 
Formation to March 1824. By Mr. John Lindley, F.L.S., &c., 
Assistant Secretary for the Garden. Read July 20., and 
August 3. 1824. 


In his selection, Mr. Lindley has confined himself to “such 
as have been most particularly deserving notice, either for the 
beauty of their flowers or foliage, or for circumstances con- 
nected with their history.” A similar report is intended to 
be made annually. This first report is arranged as tender 
plants and hardy plants ; and each of these divisions into such 
as are shrubby, herbaceous, bulbous, or otherwise. The 
plants remarked on by Mr. Lindley, being all described and 
treated of in our Encyclopzedia of Plants, we shall do little 
more here than enumerate them. 


Lransactions of the Horticultural Society. 303 


TENDER Piants. 


Trees or Shrubs.—Calceolaria rugosa and integrifolia, Hort. Brit., elegant 
under-shrubs, nearly hardy, propagated by cuttings, placed under a hand- 
glass in a cold frame. 

Astrapeea  Wallichii, sent to the Chiswick garden from Kew. Very 
ornamental ; cuttings planted in silver-sand, without moisture, root in the 
course of six weeks. 

Laurus aggregata, Hort. Brit., L. glauca in some collections. A low 
branching shrub, flowering in Winter. 

Guatteria rufa, a low plant, with cordate leaves, of easy propagation. 

Berberis fascicularis ; rare ; fine holly-like leaves, yellow flowers, and dark 
purple fruit. (See Gard. Mag. pp. 216 and 220.) 

Hypericum Cochinchinense, a green-house plant. 

Diplolepis vomitoria and apiculata, hot-house plants ; Cyminosma pedun- 
culata ; Heemadictyon venosum, a showystove-climber ; Pergularia sanguino- 
lenta ; Glycosmis citrifolia, a stove plant, bearing edible fruit, about the size 
of currants ; Ixora barbata; Lantana fucata ; Kuonymus chinensis ; Clitoria 
arborea; Oxalis Plumieri. 

Herbaceous Plants.—Marica Sabini rivals in beauty of flowers M. north- 
iana; “named in compliment to Captain Edward Sabine, of the Royal 
Artillery, F.R.S., &c., to whom the Society is under much obligation for 
the numerous and important services he, during his voyage to Africa and 
South America, rendered the Society, in the protection and assistance 
afforded the collector (Mr. Geo. Don) who accompanied him.” 

Lobelia campanuloides ; Canna iridifolia; Chlorophytum orchidastrum ; 
Ipomeea paniculata ; Aneilema sinicum. 

Primula sinensis, introduced by Captain Richard Rawes in 1821, and 
presented by him to his relative, Thomas Carey Palmer, Esquire, of Brom- 
ley, in Kent. 

Limnocharis Plumieri, a fine aquatic, native of Maranham; Phaylopsis 
longifolia; Alstrémeria flos Martini; Pitcairniastaminea; Ocymum febrifucum. 

Orchideous Plants.—In the garden of Chiswick are about 180 species. 
Catasetum cristatum; Prescotia plantaginea; Dendrobium squalens; Pon- 
thieva petiolata; Spiranthes pudica; Angrecum luridum; Eulophia 
Guineensis and gracilis have flowered. 

Bulbous Plants.—Ornithogalum corymbosum, from Chili; the Peruvian 
women twine the flowers, which are very fragrant, in their hair. Pancra 
tium patens; Amaryllis Forbesii, cyrtanthoides, and candida. 

Harpy Prants. : 

Rosa Biebersteinii, in general aspect, resembles R. rubiginosa, passing 
into R. spinosissima. ‘ 

Prunus pseudo-cerasus, the Chinese cherry, differs from the common 
cherry, “in having its flowers growing in racemes, not fascicles ; in their 
stalks being hairy; and, to a certain degree, in the outline of its leaves. 
Placed in a forcing-house, it ripened its fruit in fifty days from the time of 
flowering, and under circumstances unfavourable to forcing cherries in 
general. Its fruit is small, of a pale red colour, of a pleasant subacid fla- 
vour, with a small smooth stone. From the facility with which it bears 
forcing, it is to be anticipated, that it may hereafter prove an object de- 
serving attention.” 

ANNUAL PLaNntTs. 

Euphorbia cyathophora; Nicotiana repanda, the true Havannah segar to- 
bacco ; Nicotiana nana ; Calceolaria scabioseefolia. 

Schizanthus pinnatus, an elegant annual, now common, and the seeds 
sold in the seed-shops, with S. porrigens, and other half-hardy annuals. 

Schizopetalon Walkeri, another charming addition to our half-hardy 


annuals. 
3 


Y 


804 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


Ammobium alatum, a good addition to the class of flowers popularly 
called everlastings. 

(Enothera tenella; Loasa nitida and Placei. 

Bulbous Plants—Allium striatellum and Cowani; Amaryllis longifolia. 

Herbaceous Plants. —(Enothera acaulis; very dwarf, with pure white 
flowers, which expand early in the evening, and remain open during the 
night, closing by nine o’clock next morning. A good border plant. 

Senecio venustus ; handsome, and easily cultivated. 

Calendula incana, now (1826) a weed in Chelsea Garden. 


Of the above 61 plants, 26 have been introduced by the 
Society, and of these 26, 14 were sent home by that indefati- 
gable collector, Mr. George Don. 


6. On the Cultivation of Strawberries. By Thomas Andrew 
Knight, Esq. F.R.S. &c. President. Read December 21st 
1824. 

Mr. Kwiaurt, referring to Mr. Keens’s paper on the straw- 
berry (Hort. Trans. vol. ii. p.392. and Encye. of Gard. § 4717.), 
states that it contains some opinions which he does not think 
well founded ; and he adds, * as I rarely see in gardens of my 
friends that which, in my opinion, is even a moderately good 
crop of strawberries, (!!) I shall proceed to state some conclu- 
sions which theory and practice have conjointly led me to 
draw, relatively to the most advantageous modes of culture of 
those species and varieties of fruit.” 

Mr. Knight agrees with Mr. Keens that the Spring is the 
only proper season for planting. The aggregate produce in 
two seasons of a plantation made in August will generally be 
found to be less in quantity, and very inferior in quality, to 
that afforded in one season, of equal extent, made in the 
Spring. Mr. Keens suffers his beds to continue three years, 
and plants his hautbois and pines at eighteen inches apart in - 
the rows, with intervals of two feet between the rows. Mr. 
Knight plants the Downton strawberry, which requires as much 
space as the hautbois or pine, in rows at sixteen inches dis- 
tance, with only eight inches distance between the plants; and 
he has found each plant at such distances, nearly, if not quite 
as productive as when placed with much wider intervals. The 
old scarlet strawberry Mr. Knight found to bear admirably 
at a foot distance between the rows, and six inches plant from 
plant; and he thinks he has obtained more than twice the 
amount of produce from the same extent of ground which he 
should have obtained if his plants had been placed at the dis- 
tances recommended by Mr. Keens. ‘The beds, however, are 
totally expended at the end of sixteen or seventeen months 
from the time of their being formed, and the ground is then 
applied to other purposes. “I have consequently the trouble 
annually of planting; but I find this trouble much less than 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. $05 


that of properly managing old beds: I am quite certain that 
I obtain a much larger quantity of fruit, and of a very superior 
quality, than I ever did obtain by retaining the same beds in 
bearing during three successive years, from the same extent 
of ground.” | 

Mr. Knight approves of Mr. Keens’s mode of placing some 
long dung between the rows; but to his practice of digging 
between the rows, he says, “ I object most strongly; for by 
shortening the lateral roots in Autumn, the plants not only 
Jose the true sap, which such roots abundantly contain, but 
the organs themselves, which the plants must depend upon for 
supplies of new food in the Spring, must be to a considerable 
extent destroyed. This mode of treating strawberry plants is 
much in use among country gardeners, and I have amply tried 
it myself, but always with injurious effects; and I do not 
hesitate to pronounce it decidedly bad.” In this we entirely 
agree with the president, and recommend the study of his re- 
marks to every cultivator. The following observations respect- 
ing runners deserve the gardener’s attention, as being calcu- 
lated to guard him against the two extremes, of taking off all 
or none. ‘“ ‘Taking off the runners is not expedient in the 
mode of culture I recommend, and, under all circumstances, 
this must be done with judgment and caution; for every 
runner is, in its incipient state of formation, capable of becom- 
ing a fruit-stalk, and if too great a number of the runners be 
taken off in the Summer, others will be emitted by the plants, 
which would, under other circumstances, lave been trans- 
muted into. fruit.stalks. The blossoms, consequently, will 
not be formed till a later period of the season, and the fruit 
of the following year will thence be defective alike in quantity 
and quality ; and, under the mode of culture recommended, a 
large part of the runners, when these are taken off in Spring, 
will be required to form the new beds.” 

Alpine strawberries Mr. Knight raises from seed early in 
Spring, or from runners of the preceding year planted in the 
beginning of April, at one foot apart, in beds four or five feet 
wide. ‘* It is expedient, in the culture of these varieties, that 
the superficial soil should be extremely rich ; because much 
the most valuable part of their produce is obtained from 
runners, of the same season, and these require to be well 
nourished. If a good alpine variety be planted, the blossoms 
of all the runners will rise with the third leaf. The best 
which I have seen affords a white fruit, similar in form to 
the ved variety; and the old plants of this, as well as the 
runners, continue to bear till their blossoms are destroyed by 
frost; and both the white wood, and white alpine strawberries, 

Y 4 


306 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. | 


appear to me to retain their flavour more perfectly in Autumn 
than the red.” 


7. Directions for managing Tigridia Pavonia during the Winter 
- Months. In a Letter to the Secretary. By Mr. John Damper 
‘Parks. Read December 7th, 1824. 


Instead of cutting down the stems and taking up the roots, 
Mr. Parks takes up the roots with some mould attached to 
them, and puts them in pots as small as their size will con- 
veniently admit, without disturbing the bulbs. He then places 
them in a cold pit, and finds them in the March following 
more large and plump than roots deprived of the earth in 
Autumn, and kept in a dry place; a judicious practice, ap- 
plicable to different other tender bulbs, such as Gladiolus 
cardinalis. 

8. Notices of Communications to the Horticultural Society, between 
Jan. 1.1822. and Jan, 1. 1823, of which separate Accounts have 
not been published in the Transactions. Extracted from the 
Minute Books and Papers of the Society. 


The Rev. G. Swayne, of Dyrham, near Bath, protects the branches of 
fie-trees during Winter by old newspapers. He applies them in the month 
of December, “ by winding long stripes round the branches, in the manner 
in which surgeons do their bandages, making the paper reach as far as pos- 
sible, without leaving any part uncovered, and giving it a twist on the end, 
to fixit. Assoon as the branch has been prepared, it is attached to 
the wall with shreds, in two places, one at the commencement of the 
paper, and the other near the end. Towards the latter end of April, when 
the young fruits are swelling, the covering is removed, taking care to do 
so on a mild but cloudy day, that the change may not be too great from 
their covered state to that ofexposure. If the fig-trees have not been pre- 
viously pruned, to save unnecessary labour such branches only as are in- 
tended to be left for fruiting need be covered.” Printed paper is preferred 
to plain paper, because, having a considerable portion of its surface covered 
with the oil of the ink, it does not readily imbibe moisture. 

The Rev. W. Phelps, of Mellifont Abbey, near Wells, Somersetshire, pro- 
tects “ wall-trees from the effects of frosts by constructing broad ladders, re- 
sembling hurdles, of a length sufficient to reach to the top of the wall, when 
placed obliquely against it, 5 feet distant at the bottom, and ofa width not 
exceeding 6 feet, in order that they may be more portable. The rounds 
of the ladder, which are 18 inches apart, are wrapped with straw or hay- 
bands, or with refuse flax, or hemp-dressings. The obliquity of the lad- 
der brings the rounds into such a position, one above the other, that the 
effects of frost, and of cutting winds, are completely guarded against, and 
yet the sun’s rays are admitted, and a free circulation of air allowed. The 
ladders are placed in front of the trees, just before the blossoms begin to 
expand, and continued there till the fruit is of a good size, when they 
may be removed to a shed, to remain till next season. With common care 
they will last several years, and the straw or hay-bands may be easily re- 
newed. The experience of four years has fully confirmed Mr. P. in the 
opinion of the utility of this kind of protection.” 

Mr. James Dall, gardener to the Earl of Hardwicke, at Wimpole, in 
Cambridgeshire, has raised and fruited pines, for five years and upwards, 
im pits somewhat on Mr. M Phail’s plan, but heated both within and from 
without by leaves, instead of dung or fire-heat. 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 307 


Mr. James Smith, gardener to the Earl of Hopetown, at Hopetown 
House, in Scotland, forces rhubarb in boxes placed in a mushroom-house, 
or other dark room, and watered occasionally. Roots taken up in Decem- 
ber will, with from 55° to 65° of heat, be blanched and fit for cutting in 
February. A fresh box brought in every three weeks will afford a regular 
supply, and the plants, when done with, may be taken out of the boxes, 
and replanted in the open ground, so as to be fit for a similar use the en- 
suing Winter, 

John Wedgewood, Esq., blanches and forces Buda cale.in the manner of 
sea-cale, and finds the plants so treated become peculiarly delicate. 

Mr. John Reid, the inventor of the new syringe (Hncye. of Gard., fig.18 5. 
and of Agr. fig. 665.) proposes to glaze sashes by forming grooves on each 
side of the sash-bar to receive the glass and putty. He thinks that, by 
exposing a smaller surface of putty to the air, less wet will be admitted 
into the house. We have great doubts as to this plan being an improvement. 

Mr. John Hunneman sent to the meeting of the Society several roots 
of the Teltow turnip, or French turnip, a small and excellent spindle- 
shaped root, not exceeding the size of a small long-rooted radish, grown 
principally in the neighbourhood of Teltow, in Brandenburgh. The seed 
is sown twice a year; in April, to be gathered about July; and in August, 
in ground from which the rye crops have been cleared, or where early po- 
tatoes have been previously grown, to be taken up late in the Autumn, 
“ and preserved in cellars, in dry sand, where they will keep good till the 
Spring. ‘The poor and sandy soil of the Teltow district seems almost ne- 
cessary for the growth of this turnip, for it degenerates when grown at a 
distance from it. A total absence of manure is essential to their perfec- 
tion. As avegetable it is much used in Germany ; it is of great excel- 
lence, and is dressed in a variety of ways, but generally stewed.” 
We may observe here, that in Autumn the Teltow, or any other turnip, 
may be sown on the richest soil, and yet retain its flavour; but this is 
not the case in Spring or Summer. 

Sir C. iM. L. Monck, Bart., destroys worms in pots by an infusion made 
with boiling water and fresh walnut-leaves. Lime-water is more effectual. 

Mr, P. Day, Gardener to the Countess of Dysart, Ham-House, near 
Richmond, sent to the meeting a tree cabbage-plant in seed, the stem of 
which was twelve feet high, with abundance of branches, 

Mr. James Smith, Gardener to James Hammond, Esq., at Potter’s Bar, 
near Barnet, communicated “ directions for forcing onions to produce 
bulbs in clusters, at an early season. He sows the seed in April, thickly, 
in a bed, and does not afterwards thin the plants which come up; this 
causes them to remain small; apart of them are used for pickling, and the 
remainder, being about the size of walnuts, are planted in January or Feb- 
ruary, pressing each onion into the earth so deep as just to cover it. As 
soon as the seed-stalks appear, he breaks them off, and instead of making 
any effort to form new ones, the onions begin to form young bulbs round 
the old ones. By this process onions may be obtained two or three inches 
in circumference, fit for the kitchen early in Spring, at a time when Spring- 
sown onions are not larger than quills. Onions thus thrown into clusters 
will be full-grown by the end of June, and fit to take up then, but they 
do not keep well.” 

Peter Rainier, Esq., Captain R. N., communicated directions for culti- 
vating and cooking the brinjall, a variety of the common egg-plant (sola- 
num melongena), producing dark-coloured elongated fruit, which is much 
used in the East Indies, especially at Bombay. It is also established as an 
esculent in the French gardens, under the name of aubergine. Captain 
Rainier grows the plants in a frame placed upon a dung-bed. The seeds 
are sown in February; each plant yields from six to ten fruits. They are 
very generally used in the East Indies in curries, and made-dishes; but 
the usual and best mode of dressing them is, first to parboil them, and then, 


308 Transactions of the Prussian 


dividing them lengthwise, to score them across and across with a knife, 
to dress them with butter, pepper, and salt, and then to broil them on a 
gridiron. Captain Rainier uses the medlar as a stock for pears. 

Mr. John Bowers, Gardener to the Lord Selsey, at West Dean House, 
in Sussex, destroys the bug and scale on pine-apple plants by a wash “ con- 
sisting of three gallons of rain water, two pounds of soft soap, eight 
ounces of black sulphur, (sulphur vivum,) and two ounces of camphor, 
boiled together for an hour, and to which is then added three ounces of 
turpentine. He turns out his plants, divests the roots of their fibres, and 
immerses them in a trough nearly filled with the liquid at a temperature of 
from 120° to 156%, for about five minutes. Queen and sugar-loaf pines he 
finds require the highest heat stated: Antiguas and others need not have 
it above 124°; but those to which a lower temperature is used must 
remain doubie the time immersed. When taken out of the liquor they 
are well drained, and set on the flue of the house with the roots down- 
wards, until they become dry ; they are then put into small-sized pots, and 
plunged in fresh tan, with a good bottom heat kept up by dung linings. 
They are shaded from the sun in the heat of the day, and a little air given 
until they begin to grow, which will be in about three weeks from the 
time they are potted. The above operation may be performed between 
the months of February and September.” 

Mr. John Breese, Gardener to Sir Thomas Neave, Bart. at Dagnam 
Park, Essex, grows pines on boards placed over a pit filled with rank 
dung, covered with six inches of old rotten dung. 

Mr. William Ross, of Stoke Newington, had a plant of the black Damas- 
cus grape, the blossoms of which, every gardener knows, do not set well, 
either in the hoi-house, nursery, or in the open air. Mr. Ross had a piant 
on the open wall, which for many years had invariably failed to set its fruit. 
A royal muscadine grew near it. At the pruning and training season the 
branches of the two vines were intermixed, and in the blooming season 
their racemes coming almost in contact with each other, produced the 
desired effect ; while a part of the vine trained by itself produced defective 
branches as before. Mr. Ross had been in the habit of fecundating the 
black Damascus by suspending over the blossoms, when fully open, bunches 
of the flowers of other sorts then in the same state. These were shaken 
occasionally to disperse the pollen. 

John Williams, Esq., of Pitmaston, near Worcester, cultivates straw- 
berries on small ridges of earth running north and south, about nine 
inches above the level of the ground, planting the strawberries on the top, 
and laying plain tiles on each side of the ridge. He finds the produce 
earlier, more abundant, and better flavoured, than en plants grown on the 
flat ground. ‘The flat tiles retain the moisture, promote the ripening of the 
fruit, and keep it free from dirt after heavy showers of rain. 


ArT. II. Verhandlungen. des Vereins, &c. Transactions of the 
Prussian Gardening Society, &c. Vol. 1. Continued from 
p- 189. 


The 26th Article of these Transactions is entitled, General Re- 
marks on British Parks and Gardens. Extracted trom the 
Journal of Mr. Lenné, Royal Garden Engineer at Potsdam. 


Mr. LEnnx is a young man belonging to a family on the 
banks of the Rhine, who have been gardeners for upwards of 
two centuries. Having received a very competent education 


Florticultural Society. 309 


at home, he was sent to Paris, and placed under the late Mr. 
Thouin, in the Jardin des Plantes; he next went to Sicily 
to teach the culture of asparagus and make various improve- 
ments in the garden of a German officer, who had married a 
rich Sicilian heiress. After remaining there two years, he 
came to Naples, and spent some time with his three country- 
men, gardeners, at the botanic garden in the city, the Royal 
garden at Portici, and the English garden at Caserta. In re- 
turning to Germany, he passed some months with Signor 
Vilaresi, at Monza near Milan. All the principal gardens in 
Germany he had visited before he left that country. In 1823 
he came to England, and remained in this country for two or 
three months. Having during that period had frequent oc- 
casion to see Mr. L., we found him one of the most intelligent 
of the various young German gardeners who have visited 
England since the peace. At the same time it is proper to 
remark, that his stay was too short, his knowledge of the 
language too imperfect, and his travels in the interior of the 
country too limited, to enable him to form a just notion of the 
English mode of laying out grounds. His remarks, there- 
fore, as an artist, may be considered of less interest than 
as those of a general observer and a foreigner. Clermont, 
Ashridge, Stowe, Woburn Abbey, and Eator Hall, he 
believes to be the first residences in England. We subjoin 
his description of the latter residence. 


“One of the most interesting instances of what wealth and 
taste turned to a particular object can produce, may be. seen at 
Eaton Hall, the seat of the Earl of Grosvenor, about three miles 
from Chester. With a view of rendering the journey agreeable, 
and in order to be, as it were, equally at home at Chester and 
Eaton Hall, he has purchased most of the land situated between 
those two places, and connected them by turning the whole 
into park scenery as far as the gates of the town. ‘The entrance 
to the park is through a splendid iron-gate in the Gothic style ; 
the impression produced by it, and by the neat lodge, give a fore- 
taste of what is to follow. A fine even approach winds in majestic 
_curves through broad glades of turf, bounded by thick plantations, 
which sometimes almost touch the road, and at others withdraw 
far from it, forming a great variety of bays and sinuosities. Here 
and there single trees and small groups enhance the beauty of 
the way. The ground rises gradually, the light groups now 
become more open, and to the left are discovered most beautiful 
meadow-grounds, watered by asmall stream; to the right this 
fertile plain is broken by various hills covered with underwood. 
As we advance, the elevation and variety of the ground is 
increased ; various points of view direct the attention to the sur- 
rounding scenery, which now becomes more interesting at every 
step. We see towards the north the town of Chester, with its 


310 Transactions of the Prussian. 


ancient walls of red sand-stone; towards the west we behold a 
richly cultivated country, with hills projecting from the higher 
mountains of Wales, which themselves rear their heads above 
them, and in grotesque forms close the horizon, ‘The country 
has a truly imposing character. Under similar, but varied points 
of view, we proceed on the grand approach, till we arrive at a 
cross-road connecting the surrounding villages. This road 
divides the park in two parts; but far from injuring the general 
effect, it has been sunk into an artificial rocky dell, to a depth of 
twenty feet, over which the approach passes on a natural-like 
vault of rock-work. The sides of this glen are inaccessible, and 
the view of it from the approach forms an interesting feature in 
the landscape. 

An open Gothic portal, highly enriched, now surprises the view 
of the stranger, and prepares him for the vicinity and splendour 
of the house. The park here displays a more ornamented 
appearance ; the lawns are more extensive, and more neatly kept ; 
the plantations are more select, and secured by iron fencing 
against the depredations of the deer. At last we discover, 
through a dark mass of wood, the house itself, in a style of 
splendour and grandeur truly royal, and such as one would feel 
almost inclined to call too arrogant for a private individual (und 
man fir einen privatmann fast zu ibermuthig nennen mochte). 
The palace is built in the Gothic style, and all that wealth and 
art can produce, is displayed in its exterior, and still more in its 
interior.” 

Mr. Lenné suggests that the royal residences round Berlin, 
and especially those at Potsdam, might be united with the 
capital something in the same way that Eaton Hall is with 
Chester. 

As a native of the banks of the Rhine, he feels the want of 
those vineyards and orchards which abound in his country ; 
but above all things, he cannot reconcile himself to the extent 
of our parks, kept up ‘ for the nourishment of game instead 
of human beings.” He is particularly shocked at the parks of 
Blenheim, Woburn, and Ashridge, in each of which, he says, 
there are from two thousand to three thousand head of deer. 
This “arrogance, extravagance, and egotism” of the English, 
he “would be sorry to see imitated in Germany, farther than 
in a very slight degree.” He is convinced that if Kent had 
been employed by German princes, instead of English lords, 
he would have intrcduced the orchards which he, Mr. Lenné, 
finds contrast so much better with cultivated fields than park 
scenery, He hopes to give an example of this mixed style 
of fruit and forest trees, in the neighbourhood of Berlin. 

The English style of landscape-gardening which prevailed 
in the time of Kent, he considers as having degenerated into 
a little manner; and as examples of this, he refers to Cashio- 
bury and Bretton Hall. We see from this, and other parts 


Horticultural Society. 311 


of Mr. Lenné’s paper, that he has not clear ideas of what 
English gardening is, or ought to be. The littlenesses he 
alludes to at the above places are the flower-gardens, which 
form a description of scenery altogether apart from landscape. 
A foreigner, to become acquainted with our gardening, would 
require to remain some years in the country, and to make 
himself master of the language. 

*« The reason why English gentlemen are so fond of 
their country-seats, is owing to the foggy atmosphere of 
London, and the smoke of sea-coal.” The public parks of 
the metropolis he considers every way inferior to those on 
the continent, and seemingly much more intended for the 
grazing of cattle than for the enjoyment of man. He justly 
observes, that the public walks of the continental towns, such 
as the Tuillerie-garden of Paris, the Prater of Vienna, and 
the Thiergarten at Berlin, have decided advantages over those 
of London. “To enjoy the latter it is necessary to be a man 
of fortune, and take exercise on horseback or in a carriage, 
for, excepting in St. James’s Park. and Kensington-gardens, 
there is neither a seat nor a shelter for the pedestrian.” The 
Regent’s Park he describes as particularly deficient in these 
respects, and observes that in the distant parts of it there ought 
not only to be seats, arbours, and bowers of shelter, but places 
of refreshment and amusement. He notices the trifold fence 
of the circus at the end of Regent’s Street, and thedouble fences 
and locked gates of most of the squares, as truly English. These 
things, he says, made him reflect on the liberality of his king, 
and other German princes, who generotsly throw open their 
gardens to the public at every hour of the day ; “and often,” he 
adds, ‘“‘ when viewing them, I thought of the gardens of Pots- 
dam, so richly ornamented ; open at all times to all manner of 
persons; and the perfect preservation of which, shows that the 
people properly appreciate the favour of their monarch.” ‘The 
royal gardens of Kew and Windsor he does not estimate high- 
ly ; though he mistakes the object of Sir William Chambers in 
laying out the pleasure-grounds at Kew, which was that of 
making the most of a dull and limited space, without reference 
to the external views. This could be done no otherwise than 
by the frequent introduction of buildings, and the judicious 
disposition of exotic trees and shrubs. T’o have moved earth, 
or introduced water, would have done more; but at an ex- 
pence deemed too great for royalty. Mr. L. falls into the 
usual mistake of strangers, and of one or two of us at home, 
in considering the collection of plants in the botanic garden 
at Kew as the first in Europe. It was once so, but now 
there are more complete collections in some of the London 


312 Catalogue of Works 
nurseries; ¢. g. at Messrs. Loddiges at Hackney ; not to men- 
tion the gardens of Liverpool, Edinburgh, and Glasgow. 


(To be continued.) 


Art. II. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, 
&c. published since November last, with some Account of those 
considered the most interesting : 


BriTIsH. 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London. Vol. vi. part ill. 
London, 4to. 3 plates. 

Tus part contains eighteen papers; two of the plates are figures of 
chrysanthemums, and the third of “ Wilmot’s superb” strawberry. Three 
of the papers are by the president; two by the secretary; two by the 
garden secretary; one by a clerk in the garden; one by the head gardener; 
two are anonymous reports, on the experiments carried on in the garden 
of the Society ; and one, notices of fruits exhibited at the Society’s meetings. 
Of the remaining five papers; one is by Dr. Van Mons of Brussels; two by 
gardeners in place in England; and two by gardeners in place in Scotland. 
Along with this publication is distributed a paper of “ Regulations observed 
by the Garden Committee in the distribution of articles from the garden.” 

The essence of all these papers may be comprised in about a dozen of 
our pages, and will be found in a future number. 


Horticultural Society of London. Report of the Garden Committee on the 
Formation and Progress of the Garden; drawn up for the Information 
of the Fellows of the Society, as directed by the Bye-Laws. March 31st, 
1826. London, 4to. 29 pp. 1 pl. 


This report is only delivered to such Fellows of the Society as have sub- 
scribed to the garden; other members or the public may purchase it at 
5s. a copy. nk: 

The Garden Committee have the satisfaction to state that the various 
departments of the Garden exhibit every appearance of improvement and 
advancement. “ Though many walls and buildings remain tobe executed, the 
ground-works are so far perfected, that the arrangements and divisions are 
sufficiently obvious to exhibit to an observer the design of those co whom 
the first formation of the plan was entrusted. The deviations from that 
plan have been so trifling that the original may be considered as remaining 
unaltered, and the Committee have again to repeat, what they have once be- 
fore observed, that if the plan of the garden were again to be arranged, the 
present would probably be adopted by all who are acquainted with its details. 
The object of the establishment has always been, and it is hoped will 
continue to be, general public utility ; private benefit and gratification, except 
as far as may be compatible with general good, being of secondary consider- 
ation. The entire garden must be viewed as created for the illustration 
of all objects connected with gardening, and as intended to fulfil the pur- 
poses of the original institution of the Society, pointed out in its charter, 
“ the improvement of horticulture in all its branches, ornamental as well 
as useful.” 


By this test we shall examine the plan of the garden in our next 
number. ; 
Reports on the following points are in preparation : 


_ 1. The results of observations and experiments of a general nature, made 
in the garden. 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 313 


2. Notices of the new and remarkable fruits which have ripened in the 
garden. 


3. Similar notices on the new and remarkable esculents which have 
been raised in the garden. 


4, Accounts of new and remarkable plants which have flowered in the 
garden. 


The Catalogue of the fruit department will be ready for publication 
early in the Summer. 

The collection of fruit trees of all kinds has perhaps never been 
equalled, and that of trees and shrubs is now scarcely inferior, except in 
age, to any in Europe. 

The collection of esculent vegetables is continually in the course of 
improvement. The chief objects of the Society are to simplify the nomen- 
clature, and point out the most useful of the articles. 

The number of smaller hardy ornamental plants, with the exception 
of bulbs, is not very large at present. It has never been intended to make 
the collection of herbaceous plants and annuals general; but to confine 
it to those which are strictly ornamental, and consequently suited to a 
garden. A botanical collection of plants has never been contemplated. 

The plants under glass are almost entirely confined to those of orna- 
ment, and of known or expected utility. 

The progress made in the Arboretum is explained by a plan of the ground. 
This subject we leave till our next Number. ; 

“The Committee have to report that the garden has received some very 
important acquisitions by the mission which has just terminated, of Mr. 
James M‘Rae, to the islands in the Pacific Ocean, and to various parts 
of the south-western side of South America. Very material additions 
have also been made to the garden by the liberality of Messrs. Baumann 
of Bolwiller, Messrs. Audibert of Tarascon, Messrs. Landreth of Phila- 
delphia, and Mr. Floy of New York. Many objects of interest have also 
been acquired by the liberality of the nurserymen of England and 
Scotland. 

“The advanced state of several departments of the garden enables the 
Committee to state that the supplies of fruits, flowers, and esculent 
vegetables for exhibition at the Meetings of the Society will in future be 
more abundant and varied than they have hitherto been. Of such fruits 
and esculent vegetables as may remain after this necessary general appli- 
cation of the preduce, the Council have it in contemplation to make 
arrangements for the sale at a reasonable price, to Fellows of the Society, 
who may be disposed to avail themselves of such privilege.” 

“The donations from the garden have been very considerable : in the first 
place, in the supply of plants and seeds to our own colonies, and to 
foreign céuntries generally, whenever it could be ascertained that they 
were likely to be useful; and in the second place, to the public gardens 
of the United Kingdom. Extensive supplies of the more useful objects 
of cultivation have been sent to the house of the Society, for the use of 
the Fellows generally. With regard to particular distributions to members 
of the Society by the Committee, this has also been carried as far as has 
been consistent with the orders of the Council, “not to interfere with the 
interests of nurserymen.” In making these distributions the Committee 
have necessarily kept in view the degree of right which the various appli- 
cants have possessed; and they have considered that members of the 
Society who are claimants upon the garden are of two kinds. The First 
Class consists of those who, by donations to the formation of the garden, 
and by annually contributing to its support (compounded for or paid 
yearly), or by a payment amounting to 20/. or upwards (which is con- 
sidered equivalent to both), possess as it were a double right, and these 
therefore have the strongest claim upon the attention of the Committee. 


$14 . Catalogue of Works 


The Second Class consists of those members who have only a single right, 
in consequence of either contributing to the garden one guinea annually 
(or compounding for such payment), or by subscribing to the formation 
of the garden any sum less than 20/. These stand in the second rank 
of claimants. Contributors of plants, seeds, &c. if they are not sub- 
scribers, are considered to possess claims in proportion to the value of 
their contributions, &c. 

The garden has been visited by 4706 persons between the ist of April 
1825, and the 31st of March 1826 inclusive, being an increase of 784 
over the numbers registered in the preceding year. Strangers who have 
not access to subscribers are furnished with tickets to see the garden 
by applying to the Society’s house in Regent Street. _ ; 

One of the most important advantages which is accruing to the public 
from the garden, is the education of young men to fill the places of 
gardeners. Several instances have occurred of young foreigners of 
respectability being sent to the garden for the purpose of receiving an 
horticultural education. The arrangements which have been made for 
the control and management of the labourers, (that is, of the “ young men ”’ 
who are being educated), both during their presence in the garden, and 
at their hours of leisure, have been attended with the happiest effects. 
Since the establishment of the garden only nine have been dismissed for 
misconduct, violation of rules, or unfitness, and twenty-four have been 
recommended to places. Thirty-six remain on the establishment. 

“The list of subscribers to the formation since the last Report of the 
Committee will be found in Appendix, No. V.; the amount of subscrip- 
tions notified within the year being 411/. 5s. Od. It is a matter of regret 
to the Committee that this list should be found so inconsiderable: the 
whole sum subscribed by members of the Society amounts, at the date 
of this report, to 6784/. 17s. Od. of which 662/. 5s. Od. remains unpaid. 
The falling off in the contribution of members of the society from what 
was originally anticipated has necessarily compelled the Council to suspend 
the execution of many most important works. 

In annual subscriptions an increase has taken place during the last 
year, by the election of new Fellows. 

The Committee hoped to have been able to announce in this Report 
that a considerable sum had been placed at their disposal for the purpose 
of completing the plan for the formation of the Garden. Circumstances, 
however, having caused a delay in this advance, the Council has found it 
necessary to raise a loan of 5000/. 

Appendix, No. I. contains references to the plan of the Arboretum. 

Appendix, No. II. contains six rules and twelve regulations for the 
distribution of articles from the garden; to commence and be attended 
to, from and after the 51st of March 1825. i 

Appendix, No. III. contains six rules and nine regulations for the 
exhibition of the garden, to commence and be attended to from and 
after the 1st of May, 1825. 

Appendix, No. IV. contains seventeen regulations for the admission, 
&c. of labourers into the garden of the Horticultural Society at Chis- 
wick. Ordered by the Council, April 28th, 1825. 

We print them entire for the benefit of gardeners who may be desirous 
of applying for admission. 

1. Any person desirous of being received into the garden for the pur- 
poses of instruction and improvement in horticulture, must be recom- 
mended by a member subscribing to the garden, either annually or other- 
Wise, in a letter addressed to the secretary, stating the names at length 
of the person recommended. 

2. Candidates foradmission must be between the ages of 18 and 26: 


On Gardening and Rural Affairs. $15 


they must have been educated as gardeners, be unmarried, and capable of 
reading and writing moderately well. 

3. After receiving the recommendation, the secretary will transmit 
to the person recommending the candidate a copy of these rules, in 
order that they may be forwarded to him: the candidate will then, in a 
letter, written by himself, acknowledge the receipt of it; and will state 
his age, his present engagements, the time when he desires to be admitted, 
and the address under which communications are to be made to him. He 
will likewise state in what occupations, and where he has been employed, 
since the age of 14, 

4. The candidate’ will, in reply, be informed whether his answer is 
satisfactory or not. If the former, his name will be entered on the list 
for engagement. 

5. On the occurrence of a vacancy, the candidate who shall be then 
selected for engagement will be informed thereof, and directed to go to 
the garden at Chiswick, for the purpose of being engaged. 

6. Previously to his being engaged, he must produce to the gardener 
testimonials of his character, of his past good conduct and ability; and 
if these shall be satisfactory to the gardener, he will be engaged. 

7. After his admission, if at the expiration of one month the gardener 
shall report him unfit for further employment, he will be dismissed. 

8. Any person engaged as a labourer in the garden, who shall miscon- 
duct himself in any way, whether in or out of the garden, or who shall 
not implicitly conform to the orders and rules laid down for the conduct 
of labourers by the gardener, will be immediately discharged. 

9. Each labourer on his first introduction to the garden will be 
placed in the lowest department, and will be advanced in succession, 
through the other departments, according to his ability and acquirements, 
without reference to the time he has been employed in the garden. No 
person can be admitted for the purpose of study in any one department 
only. 
i No person engaged as a labourer in the garden, will be permitted, 
whilst employed by the Society, to seek for any engagement or service for 
himself. When employment, suited to the talent or acquirements of any 
person employed in the garden, shall be known of, the situation will be 
offered to him; and if agreeable to him he will be recommended thereto. 
But no labourer will be recommended to any situation until he has been 
one year at least in the service of the Society. 

11. The gardener will, at his convenience, some time in the month of 
October or November in each year, report to the secretary the names o. 
all the labourers who shall have been employed in the garden six months 
or more, who in his opinion are not likely to attain such proficiency 
in the business of a gardener as shall qualify them to be recommended to 
the situation of a head-gardener [that is, who have not the proper bump 
on their heads] with credit to themselves and the Society; and such 
persons will be discharged in consequence. 

12. The under-gardeners will be selected from the labourers em- 
ployed in the garden, solely according to their character, conduct, ability, 
and acquirements, without any reference whatever to the period of their 
employment or their age, and they may be removed from the superin- 
tendence of one department to that of another, as may be found con- 
venient, without any other consideration. : 

15. On the nomination of an under-gardener he will be considered 
in a state of probation for three months: and if during, or at the expir- 
ation of that time, he shall be found unequal to the situation, he 
will then be either dismissed, or will return to his former station of a 
labourer. 


Vou. I. No, 3. z 
@ 


316 Catalogue of Works 


14. The under-gardeners are not permitted to seek for engagement 
or service for themselves. The nomination to the employment of 
under-gardener will be presumed to imply that they are considered likely 
to be recommended in due time to situations of consequence in their 
profession. 

15. The gardener, if he shall find the conduct of any under-gardener 
unsatisfactory, either in the charge reposed in him, in his demeanour, or in 
his moral conduct, may recommend his dismissal at any period. ; 

16. The under-gardeners who shall have conducted themselves with 
propriety, will be continued to be employed as such during two years 
from the date of the first appointment; after which time they will be 
recommended to such situations as may be thought likely to suit them. 

17. If at any time, during the service of either a labourer, or an 
under-gardener, it should appear desirable from any causes, not affect- 
ing his character, either professionally or otherwise, that he should cease 
to remain in the service of the Society, he will be permitted to leave it 
on- his own application, or on the report of the gardener, without being 
considered as in any way having violated his engagement with the Society. 

Appendix, No. V. contains a list of the subscribers to the formation 
of the garden of the Horticultural Society at Chiswick, smce April 1, 
1825; in number 35, and the amount 411/. Total subscribed to the 
garden to January Ist, 1826, 6759/. 

Appendix, No. VI. Classification of the Fellows of the Horticultural 
Society, according to their contribution towards the establishment and 
support of the garden. 

The total number of Fellows on the 31st March, 1826, amounts 
to 1984, of whom 1214 have contributed to the garden. 

A “ State of the Accounts” of the Society, and of the Garden, for 1824 and 
1825, is printed, and was delivered to such of the Fellows as were present 
at the annual election of officers, on the Ist of May last. The following 
are the totals:— 

The Society, or office in town, received 


from May 1824 to May 1825 - £7354 and paid £7165 
The Garden received from January 1824 
to January 1825 - - 7526 andaid 6865 


Total received by the Horticultural So- 

ciety, in the year 1824-5, deducting a 

sum, transferred from the Society ac- 

count to the Garden account, of £1500, 13680 Total paid 12700 
Similar totals for the year 1825-6, are - 11209 Total paid 9785 

The income of the Society from Contributions, amounted on the 1st of 
May 1826, to £5170; something additional is obtained by the sale of 
“ Transactions,” garden produce, and admission fees; the Society has bor- 
rowed in all, we believe, about £8000. 


Donald, Robert, Nurseryman, Goldworth, near Woking, Author of “ The 
Psalms of David on Christian Experience :” A new System of National 
and Practical Agriculture to relieve the Distress of every Part of the 
Community, by finding Employment for all Classes of Labourers; to 
reduce the Poor Rates; also, by a rigid Retrenchment, to lighten the 
enormous load of Taxation, and to make our Finances meet the Ex- 
penditure, with Hints for improving of Estates. In Rhyme, Guildford, 
12mo. 


-_ It cannot be expected that Mr. Donald should be so adroit at author- 
ship as he is at gardening ; and we may here hint for his benefit, and that 
of other country gardeners, at the great disadvantage of not having a 
London publisher for their books. From neglecting this, their titles are 
not introduted into the regular lists of publications, and the works them- 


: 2 


On Gardening and Rural Affairs. 317 


selves remain unknown to the reading world. Whatever may be thought 
of Mr. Donald’s book, there can be but one opinion as to the bonhommie 
of the author, whether that opinion be formed from the printed pages or 
the man. — 


Chandler and Buckingham, Nurserymen, Vauxhall, Surrey: Camellia 
Britanica. London, 4to. 8 Plates. 

This work contains coloured engravings and descriptions of eight varieties 
of camellia, raised from seeds ripened in this country, and hence called 
British camellias. These are, C. Chandlerii, 2 piates, Aitonia, Altheaflora, 
Corallina, Insignis, Florida, Anemoneflora alba, and Rosa sinensis. 


Murray, John, Esq. F.S.A., L.S., H.S., &c. Member of the Geological 
Meteorological, and Wernerian Societies, &c. Remarks on the Cultiy- 
ation of the Silk-worm, with additional Observations made in italy, 
during the Summer of 1825. London. 8vo. 

This work is at once concise, instructive, and entertaining. It formed 
originally an article in the Edinburgh Journal of Science, excited general in- 
terest, and seems to have led to the translation of Count Dandolo’s work 
on the same subject. Whoever wishes to have a clear idea of the nataral 
history of the silk-worm, and of the mode of rearing it by art, will be amply 
gratified by this little treatise. The author has planted several kinds of 
mulbezries on his own property in Inverness-shire, and hopes “ to present 
the public, by and by, with something more than theoretic detail.” 


Cleghorn, James, Accountant in Edinburgh, Conductor of the Farmer’s 
Magazine: Thoughts on the Expediency of a General Provident Institu- 
tien for the Benefit of the Working Classes ; with Tables and Examples 
of Contributions and Allowances, and an Abstract of the Acts relating 
to the Friendly Societies and Saving Banks. Edinburgh, svo. 43 pages. 


This interesting tract will be noticed more at length in our concluding 
article on Slaney’s book on Rural Expenditure; in the meantime, we re- 
commend to the philanthropic reader its perusal, and the consideration of 
the proposed plan. 

Anon. A Treatise on Milk as an Article of the first Necessity to the Health 
and Comfort of the Community; a Review of the different Methods of 
Production, and Suggestions respecting the best Means of improving its 
Quality, reducing its Price, and increasing its Consumption. Lend. 8vo. 


This tract is dedicated to Mr. Curwen, and professes to diffuse the prac- 
tical application of that gentleman’s knowledge of agriculture, as applied 
to soiling and stall-feeding of milch-cows. The author has collected a 
variety of materials from different works, in favour of the wholesomeness 
of milk in diet, and of the increased produce of the cow when fed on 
green food, or roots. The book we understand was got up with agview to 
the establishment of a “ Cattle Green Food Association ;”” a scheme never 
matured, and which, if it had, would soon have followed the fate of the 
milk companies. 


Curtis, John, F.L.S.: British Entomology; being Illustrations and Descrip- 
tions of the Genera of Insects found in Great Britain and Ireland, con- 
taining coloured Figures from Nature, of the most rare and beautiful Spe- 
cies, and in many Instances of the Plants upon which they are found. 
London, 8vo. In monthly numbers, Vols.1. aid 2., many coloured plates. 


The author, in his prospectus to the third volume, observes, “that the 
original plan has been somewhat enlarged by the synoptic view that 
is given of each genus, which, when the work is completed, will ren- 
der it the most perfect that has ever appeared in this country; and 
the references that are given to all the species will enable any one to 
study and obtain a perfect knowledge of the individuals comprised in each 

z 2 


318 Catalogue of Works 


genus, thereby imperceptibly leading him to-a knowledge of the whole sys- 
tem. This has greatly increased the labour of the author ; but the utility is 
so manifest, and has been so decidedly approved, that he will submit cheer= 
fully to the task, as often as circumstances will admit.” This work is of 
particular interest to the gardener; and we only regret, that the price 
which must necessarily be charged for it, on account of the plates, will al- 
most limit its use to their employers. We would recommend such of the 
latter, as wish to look on nature with the eye of a naturalist, to take it in 
as a rich source of gratification to themselves, and for the purpose of lend- 
ing it to their discerning gardeners, in order to enable them to know better 
how to destroy the insects in their gardens. 


Conrad Loddiges & Sons, Nurserymen, Hackney, Authors of the Botanical 
C:ibinet : Catalogue of Plants in their Collection. London, 12mo. . 


This Catalogue exhibits such an assemblage of plants, as, we will venture 
to assert, was never before brought together by any individual, not ex- 
cepting sovereigns, either in this country or abroad. The total number of 
species exceeds 8,000; all plants that may be purchased, and exclusive of 
about 2,000 varieties. In two departments, the most superficial observer 
will acknowledge the superiority of the Hackney garden; that of palms, 
and that of hardy trees and shrubs; the total number of species of the 
former at Hackney is 120, of the latter 2,664. There is no such collection 
of hardy trees and shrubs in the world; and when it is considered that 
they may all enter into our plantations, their value to the country is in- 
calculable. In this department, Messrs. Loddiges have done more than all 
the royal and botanic gardens put together. The number of trees and 
shrubs in the Hackney garden, 1s not less remarkable than the manner in 
which they are arrranged, along a revolving grave! walk, by which every 
individual species and variety may be examined with ease, and compared 
with its congeners at any time of the year. A plan of this arboretum we 
have already given. (Encyc. of Gard. § 7356.) 

In confirmation of these remarks, we subjoin the number of species of 
some of the principal genera. ate 


TENDER EXOTICS. HARDY TREES AND SHRUBS. 
Acacia = 73 Erica - 306 Acer - 27 Juniperus - 212 
Bignonia - 25 .- Ixia - 25 Andromeda 16 Pinus - 40 
Gardenia - 17 Eucalyptus - 3! Azalea - 19 Prunus - 39 
Passiflora - 33 Aloe = 68 Berberis - 10 Quercus = - 40 
Diosma - 38 Pelargonium 136 Betula - 23 Rhododendron 14 

Clematis - 11 Rosa, with its 
Crategus - 47 varieties - 1459 
Cytisus - 15 Salix - 192 
Fraxinus - 3 Vaccinium - 33 
Ilex - - 8 Ulmus - 20 
Juglans - 14 

FRANCE. 


Legris, Geometrical Engineer: La Nouvelle Méchanique Agricole, &c. 
Paris, 8vo. 2 plates. 

This work treats of road and canal-making, draining, irrigation, quarry- 
ing, mining, &c., methodically, concisely, and correctly. 

Faure, M., Senior, Corresponding Member of the Paris Agricultural Society, 
&c. : Statistique Rurale et Industrielle de l’Arrondissement de Briangon, 
&c. Paris, 8vo. 

Vergnaud, M., Senior: Mémoire sur le Marronier d’Inde.. Paris, 8vo. 
The author proposes to extract starch from the nuts of the horse- 

chestnut ; to change it into sugar, and employ it in distillation; and to apply 

it to various other uses. 

Richardot, M. Ch., Officer of Artillery: Nouveaux Appareils contre le 
Danger de la Foudre et le Fléau de la Gréle. Paris, gvo. 

The author proposes to substitute as conductors for the preservation of 


On Gardening and Rural Affairs. 319 


buildings from lightning, metallic plates instead of rods ; but rods, he con- 

siders, may be still employed for thatched buildings. He says it has been 

proved, that electricity is a necessary element of hail, and also, that fields 
with lightning-conductors (paratonnérres,) have been preserved from hail, 
while the neighbouring fields have been ravaged by the storm. “ Several 

_ facts observed in the vineyards of Italy, and in the Alps, have been cited 

to prove the influence of the electricity of the atmosphere on the form- 

ation of hail. Recently, M. Crud of Geneva, the translator of Thaer’s 

Agriculture, has given his opinion in favour of paragréles, hail-protectors, 

and has placed some on his own land.” A communication on this,subject 

by M. Crud, is published in the Annals of the Paris Agricultural Society for 

August 1825, by which it appears that it is of no use employing paragréles, 

excepting on a large scale, and that farther experiments are necessary. 

Mr. Murray, the chemical lecturer, in an appendix to his “ Remarks on 
the Silk-worm,” says, “ I am of opinion, that the paragréles so universally 
adopted in the Canton de Vaud, must very much modify the phenomena of 
the hail-storms, so prevalent along the chain of Alps, and so frequently and so 
extensively mischievous to the vine and Indian corn. [I shall elsewhere 
discuss the question at some length; meantime, I may state, that I every 
where received assurances of conviction in their protecting power in those 
localities where they had been introduced ; and may only repeat here what I 
did to Professor Chavannes, the discoverer, my firm conviction that the prin- 
ciples on which they are constructed are strictly just and scientific ; that they 
must form a protection, and finally triumph over all prejudice and ignorance, 
together with the attacks by which they have been assailed.” (p. 22.) The 
notions of Mr. Williams on the subject of establishing electrical conductors 
in the fields in this country, may, perhaps, be recollected by some of our 
readers, and with less prejudice against them, than was excited by their first 
proposal. Possibly we may in time be able to produce effects on the at- 
mosphere, analogous to those of draining, irrigation, and shelter, on the 
soil ! 

Dubrunfaut, M. L’Art de fabriquer le Sucre de Betteraves. Paris, 8vo. 
M. D. is of opinion, that even in a time of peace like the present, 

under favourable circumstances of soil, situation, &c. this manufacture may 

be carried on in France with a profit; in which, however, he differs from 
the Comte Chaptal, as expressed in the introduction to his Industrie 

Francoise. 

Decandolle, M. Aug. Pyr., of Geneva, the celebrated botanist, member of 
many societies, and author of numerous works : Mémoires sur la Famille 
des Légumineuses. Paris, 4to. Parts 1 to 5 are published. 

Part 1st describes the organization of the plants belonging to this family ; 
the second and subsequent ones are to contain the description of the 
genera and species, with some incidental remarks on their culture and 
uses in the arts. 


Jaume Saint-Hilaire, M., with an Introduction, by the late Professor 
Thouin ; Traité des Arbrisseaux et des Arbustes cultivés en France et 
en pleine Terre. Paris, 4to and 8vo. Many plates, coloured. Published 
in parts, of which 22 have appeared. 


Pirolle, M. Amateur Cultivateur : L’Horticulteur Frangais, ou le Jardinier: 
Amateur; Traité complet, théorique et pratique, du Jardinage, divisé en 
huit Livres. Paris, 12mo. 

Poiteau, A. and P. Turpin: Traité des Arbres Fruitiers, par Duhamel du 
Monceau; nouv. édit., augmentée d’un grand Nombre de Fruits, les uns 
échappés aux Recherches de Duhamel, les autres obtenus depuis des Pro- 
grés de la Culture. Paris, fol., 51 parts. Coloured plates. 

Brayer, M. J.R.L. Statistique du Départment de Aisne. Laon, 4to. 

Zo 


320 Catalogue of Works 


Bornholz, M. Alex. de, translated from the German, by M. Mich. Egger: De 
la Culture des Truftes, ou Maniere d’obtenir, par des plantes artificiels, des 
Truffes, noires et blanches, dans les Bois, les Bosquets, et les Jardins. Paris, 
8vo. > 
The truffle, the author regards as superior to all other fungi as an 

esculent ; according to him, it is a production both of an animal and 

vegetable nature ; not propagated by seed, but generated in a manner pe- 
culiar to itself, under layers of earth, peculiarly situated, in the same way 
as certain worms are formed in the flesh of animals. Hence the manner of 

ropagating the truffle is not the same as that of propagating the mushroom. 

Feduis the truffle most commonly in grounds where there were oak trees, 
he recommends a soil composed chiefly of rotten oak leaves and bark, into 
which he proposes to plant the truffle from its native habitation, and leave 
it to encrease by those sort of offsets, which, he says, it produces when full 
grown. He proposes to establish truffle-grounds in the glades of park and 
pleasure-ground scenery, guarding them from such animals as the hog, stag, 
fox, squirrel, &c. which search for and devour them ; and destroying, as far as 
possible, worms, snails, beetles, and other insects which live upon them. 

Five species are described, all growing most frequently in thin oak 
woods; sometimes in mixed woods of deciduous trees, but never under 
evergreens, especially the pie and fir tribe. As far as our own ob- 
servation has gone, the truffle is most frequent in England in scattered 
beech-woods ; but it is also met with in abundance in open commons, where 
there are no ligneous plants, excepting furze. ‘Three species are natives of 
Britain, and as they grow wholly under the surface of the ground, they are 
discovered by watching where hogs dig for them, and by small dogs trained 
on purpose to scent them. 
Martin, J. Pére, proprietor, and Alerander Martin, Fils, Apothecary in 

Paris. Traité sur les Ruches a |’Air Libre, &c. Paris, 8vo. 

The French critics say this work contains a great many new facts, and 
some ingenious speculations, deserving the attention of the cultivator. 
Bonafous, M. Mémoire sur l’Education de vers 4 Soi, ou Journal d’une 

Magnanerie. Paris, 8vo. 

Sénac, M. Bulletin des Sciences Agricoles et Economiques. Paris, 8vo. 
in monthly numbers. Nos. 1, 2, 5, and 4, for January, February, March, 
and April, 1826. ‘ 

This is one of the most comprehensive works of the kind ever undertaken 
in any country. It embraces publications on rural subjects, in all languages ; 
some original papers, andaccounts of the sittings ofthe Agricultural, Linnean, 
and other societies of Paris, with the premiums proposed by them. We 
have extracted from it, and shall continue to do so, whatever ‘we consider 
interesting to our readers. 

Jaume Saint-Hilaire, M., Mémoire sur les indigoféres de Bengale, et dela 
Chine, ou Histoire et Déscription de quelques Végétaux peu connus, et 
dont les Feuilles donnent un trés-bel Indigo. Paris, 8vo. 5 plates. 

Boitard, M. Traité de la Composition et de l’Ornement des Jardins, avec 96 
planches, representant des Plantes de Jardins, des Fabriques propres 4 leur 
Décoration, et des Machines pour éléver les Eaux. Ouvrage faisant suite 
a PAlmanach du Bon Jardinier. Paris, small 4to. 97 plates. 3d edit. 
This work will come under review in next number, along with the Bon 

Jardinier. 

GERMANY. 

Hazzi, M. de, Councillor of State: Gekroente Preisschrift ueber Gueter- 
Arrondirung, &c, or, Prize Essay on the Union of detached Territorial 
Property, written for the Agricultural Society of Bavaria. Munich, 8vo. 
The inconveniences attending the cultivation of scattered portions of 

land are pointed out, such as those of the carriage of the crop and manure, 


On Gardening and Rural Affairs. 321 


the loss of time in going and returning, &c. The remedy for these evils is 
obvious, but so extremely difficult to put in practice, that the auther 
despairs of ever seeing it generally adopted in any country. 


Shnée, Pastor at Schartau: Handbuch fiir Engehende Hausmiitter, &c., or 
Manual for Young Housekeepers. Halle, 8vo. 


Borchmeyer : Deutschlands Baumzucht, &c. or, the Description and Culture 
of all the Forest Trees grown in Germany. Munster, 8vo. 

Pfeil, Dr.: Kritische Blaetter fiir Forst-und Jagdwissenschaft, &c. Critical 
Journal of Forest Culture and Game. Berlin, 2 vols. 8vo. 


Niemann, Professor. Vaterlendische Waldberichte, &c. Information on 
the Culture of Forests, &c. Altona, 8vo. 

Bernhardi et Volker : Deutschen Garten Magazin. Weimar, vol.1. part iv. 
4to. Coloured plates. 

_ This magazine has hitherto been filled with translations; the present 

part is chiefly indebted to Mr. Lindley’s Collectanea Botanica, the Horti- 

cultural Transactions, and the Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural 

Society. The plates are coloured figures of plants from the works men- 

tioned, and from the Botanical Register. 

Voigt : Ueber die Aufbewahrung des Getreides, &c. On the Preservation of 
Grain. Lipsic, 8vo. 3 plates. 

Sprengel, Curt. Professor of Botany at Halle: Systema Vegetabilium, vol. 
5, 8vo. 

Miller, D. E. Ueber den Afterraupenfrass in den Freenkischen Kieferwal- 
dungen ; or, Ravages committed by the Caterpillars, of different Species 
of ara: in the Pine Forests of Franconia, &c. Aschaffenbourg, 8vo. 
7 plates. 

During 1819 and 1821, several thousands of acres of pines were entirely 
destroyed by T. pini, pinastri, juniperi, and erythrocephala. The produc- 
tion of these insects is favoured by heat and drought; a female lays 100 
eggs at one time; the ratural checks to their progress are, some other insects, 
most birds, the mouse, the squirrel, the wild hog, fox, &c. The power ot 
man to check them on a large scale isso very limited that the author does 
not propose to call it into action. 

Kasthofer, C. Bemerkungen auf Einer Alpenreise, &c. Berne, 8vo. 

This work consists of observations made during excursions in the Alps, 
some of which are interesting, as they respect the Swiss dairies. These are 
constructed in places abounding with spring-water, and banks are formed 
in them, in which the vessels float that contain the milk. In this situation 
the mitk remains five days; it is then creamed, and the curd pressed till it 
is completely dry. Next it is reduced to powder, and mixed with a certain 
quantity of salt, and the powdered leaves of Trifolium melilotus czrulea. 
After this the mass is put into form, and being powerfully pressed, is the 
_ celebrated Gruyére cheese. 

Verhandlungen des Vereins zur Beforderung des Gartenbaues, &c. or, Trans- 
actions of the Prussian Gardening Society. Parts 3 and 4, 4to. 9 plates. 
A considerable part of these transactions consists of papers on landscape 

ardening, to which most of the plates are illustrations. Their author is 

r. Lenné, already noticed (p. 318.) as haying published his observations 
on the gardening of this country. We shall, in succeeding numbers, select _ 
what we consider most interesting. 


Ivaty. 
Turtini Salvatici, Ferd. Dell’ Utilita di estendere all’ Estero il Commercio 
dei Vini Toscani. Florence, 8vo. : 
Fornaini, D. Ant. Saggio sopra l’Utilita di ben conservare e preservare le 
Foreste. Florence, 8vo. 
Z 4 


322 Works on Gardening and Rural Affiirs. 


Anon. Principi Pratici di Agricoltura e di Economia Rurale. Milan, 12mo. 


De Chabrol De Volvic, Comte de, Councillor of State, and Prefect of the 

Seine. Statistique des Provinces de Savone, d’Oneille, d’Acqui, et de 

artie de la Provence de Mondovi, formant l’ancien Département de 
hentnone. Paris, 2 vols. 4to. plates. 


This book is said, by the French critics, to be a model of its kind. The 
gardens of Savonna and Port Maurice, we are informed, are surrounded by 
high walls, and the principal fruit-trees are apricots, peaches, and lemons. 
Round Acqui and Céva the gardens are inclosed by hedges. Five thousand 
oranges have been gathered from one tree at Savonna. Garden bulbs, 
chiefly narcissi, but also ranunculi, anemonies, tuberoses, and hyacinths, 
and some garden seeds, form articles of exportation, to the extent of 9 or 
10,000 francs perannum. The chardoon attains a large size, frequently 
weighing from 18 to 25lbs., and still very delicate and tender. In the 
cantons of Noli, the olive plantations are the most extensive in the north of 
Italy. Three varieties are cultivated ; they are raised from suckers, nursed 
three years, and planted out the fourth year. The sixth year they produce 
some fruit, and in the eighteenth they are in full bearing. Nearly the 
same progress, it is observed, takes place with the apple-trees in Nor- 
mandy, which are also raised from suckers; the parent trees being there, 
as they are also in many parts of Germany, ungrafted apple-seedlings. No 
tree is more liable to be injured by the wind than the olive, for which rea- 
son it is generally planted in sheltered places ; and, indeed, it will not thrive 
on elevated sites, or far from the sea. The walnut is not much cultivated ; 
but, next to the orange and the olive, is the carob, Ceratonia siliqua, 
which is given to horses, mules, oxen, sheep, and swine. Sweet chesnuts 
are abundant, and form a principal source of nourishment for the moun- 
tain population. They eat them either with milk or water, fresh in Autumn, 
or kiln-dried in Winter and Spring. The author says, there are between 
50 and 60 varieties of this fruit. The mulberry is extensively cultivated 
for the silk-worm. The vine is but partially cultivated, and the wine pro- 
duced is not good, because it is made from different sorts of grapes, which, 
of course, cannot be all equally ripe at the sametime. The arable land is 
not extensive, and not very well cultivated. Maize yields eighty for one; 
artificial pastures are unknown. ‘The reed is cultivated to be used as 
laths for vaulted ceilings, as fences, hurdles for drying figs and other fruits, 
and for rearing silk-worms, 


SPAIN. 


Da Corse Veillose, Joseph, Marquis of, L’Alographia dos Alkalis Fixos. 
Lisbon 8vo. ; 

In an article in this work on the common sunflower, Helianthus annuus, 
we are informed that in Portugal the young side shoots are eaten seasoned 
with oil and salt; bread is made of the seeds, and also a sort of groats; that 
a us ‘ful and edible oil may be expressed from them, and that they are good 
for fattening poultry. The leaves of the plant form an excellent forage, 
especially for cows and sheep. The stems will do for props for twining or 
climbing plants ; afterwards they make good fuel, and their ashes afford 
at In some parts of America they roast the seeds, and use them as 
coffee. 


SWEDEN. 


Fries Elias. Plante homonemez; etiam sub titulo, Systema Orbis Vege- 
tabilis, Lund. 8vo. 


323 


PARE Tk 
MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. I.— Foreign Notices. 


FRANCE. 


GERMINATION of Seeds. The presence of oxygen gas being the 

principal requisite for germination, and chlorine the most powerful agent 
for developing this gas, it has been found that healthy seeds steeped in the 
chloric fluid are accelerated in their germination, and that others that ap- 
peared to have lost their faculty of germination have recovered it by the 
same process. (Humboldt.) 

Forcing Cherries in the Sixteenth ey At Poitou, in France, the 
ripening of cherries was accelerated by laying hot lime-stones on the 
ground under the trees, or by watering the ground with hot water. By 
these means ripe fruit was obtained on the first of May, and sent to Paris 
by post. In the following century peas were sown in boxes kept in the 
gardener’s room in the night-time, and in cold weather, and set out in 
sunshine. They came to maturity about the same time as the cherries; 
and, in a letter dated the loth of May, 1796, Madam Maintenon speaks 
of new peas as a rarity which had been the principal talk at court for four 
successive days. (Essay, &c., in Oliv. de Serres, edit. 1804.) 

Grafting. M. Louis Noisette has published the description of 137 modes 
of grafting. Most of them are the invention of the late Professor Thouin, 
and described by him in the Annales du Musée Frangaise, as well as ex- 
emplified in the Jardin des Plantes. 

Bees. Where the buck-wheat, or, more properly, beech-wheat, Poly- 
gonum fagopyrum, is extensively cultivated, there bees collect beautiful 
wax and bad honey; where the saintfoin abounds, there the honey is de- 
licious, but the wax is very difficult to bleach. (Ann. del Agric. Franc. 
t.81.) 

Employment of Bones as Manure. The Chevalier Masclet has addressed 
aletter to M. Matthieu de Dombasle on this subject, stating how much he 
was struck with the advantages of manuring with bones, in a tour he lately 
made in Scotland. He found them equally effective on sandy and clayey 
soils, and that their benefit was felt for thirty years. On humid and calcareous 
soils they are of little use; but on grass-lands they are very beneficial. 
(Annal de l Agric. France. Nov. 1825.) 

Influence of Salt on Vegetation. The inhabitants of Camargne in Lan- 
guedoc have such a dread of the corrosive action of salt on wheat in a dry 
season, that always when they sow that grain, they sow along with it Sal- 
sola sativa; so that if the former is destroyed by the drought, the latter, 
which requires a saline soil, prospers, and forms the main crop. In good 
seasons the wheat prospers, and suffocates the salsola. When the latter 
plant is the main crop, it isburnt for soda. (Yvart.) 

Box-treeas Manure. Olivier de Serresrecommends the branches and leaves 
of this shrub, as by far the best manure for the grape, not only because it 
is very common in the south of France, but because there is no plant that, 
by its decomposition, affords such a great quantity of vegetable mould. 

A Canal-digging Machine, to be moved either by manual labour or ma- 
chinery, has recently been constructed at Paris. In soil where it is uninter- 


324 Foreign Notices.— Germany. 


rupted by rocks or stones, it is said to perform its work with great rapidity, 
delivering the earth into carts, or wheelbarrows, brought alonoside of the 
excavation. 


GERMANY. 


Naturalization of Plants. A German author, J. Ch. Lewchs, has lately 
published a book, in which are some useful remarks on this subject. His 
work is divided into three parts. 1st. Observations on the climate and 
soil of Germany, and those of other countries: 2d. Principles of guidance 
in choosing plants for acclimating: and, 3d. Processes for that purpose. — 

In choosing plants to acclimate, it is necessary to attend first to their 
organization; annual plants which terminate their development in a part 
of the year, are easier acclimated than perennials. Plants which abound 
in sap, have a spongy porous wood, and much pith, succeed with difficulty. 
In applying these principles, the author lays it down as a rule, that instead 
of endeavouring to give to foreign plants their ancient climate, we ought 
to apply ourselves to make them forget it. He recommends to begin by 
hardening the seed, and for that purpose to put it in the ground before 
Winter ; to shorten the period of vegetation by increasing the temperature ; 
to diminish the nourishment, but increase its irritation, by employing 
stimulating saline manures, camphor, &c.; to stop the growth in Autumn, 
by surrounding the plant with cold; to hinder it from shooting too freely 
in Spring, by keeping it dry, so as to diminish the quantity of moisture 
absorbed by the roots, &c. 

Means of rendering Pomology more flourishing. The Pomological So- 
ciety at Guben in Lusatia, having been consulted on this subject, re- 
commended the adoption of the following measures. 1. Instruct youth 
in the cultivation of fruit-trees: 2. Instruct also ministers and school- 
masters: 3. Oblige ministers and schoolmasters to acquire information on 
the subject: 4. Render ministers and schoolmasters responsible for public 
ordinances relative to the culture of fruit-trees: 5. Establish branch Po- 
mological Societies: 6. Establish a nursery and an orchard for the principal 
society: 7. Plant fruit trees in the public places of villages, and along the 
high roads: 8. Let every parish (commune) be responsible for fruit-trees 
planted in public places: 9. Appoint public watchmen for fruit-trees : 
10. Increase the penalties for injuring fruit-trees: 11. Prohibit the de- 
struction of small birds, which are necessary for the destruction of cater- 
pillars; but the sparrow is to be excepted, because it attacks both birds 
and fruits, and only eats caterpillars when it cannot get any thing else: 
12. Establish public officers to superintend the execution of pomological 
laws, and judge petty offenders: 13. Name an inspector-general for pomo- 
logical plantations for each province. Such is the ardour for encouraging 
the growth of fruit-trees on the banks of the Rhine. 

New Varieties of Fruits. In the Memoirs of the Pomological Society of 
Altenbourg, (vol. 1.) is a paper by that indefatigable fruit-cultivator, M. Hem- 
pel, on the experiments which ought to be made for establishing the in- 
fluence that climate and soil have in the creation of new kinds of fruits. 
The processes recommended by Mr. Hempel consist in sowing the seeds 
of one sort in pots, and raising and growing them in hot-beds of dif- 
ferent temperatures till they have ripened their fruit. 

Pea Husks. Ina German publication it is stated, that these, when green, 
if boiled in water, with a little sage, or a few hops added, and the whole 
afterwards fermented, will produce a liquor not inferior to beer. 

Timothy Grass. The culture of this dirty grass has been tried in Ba- 
varia, and was found so superior to the old grasses, that horses, 
cattle, sheep, and even swine, greedily sought it out whether dry 
or green, on account of its agreeable taste. Horses fattened on the 


Notices. — Switzerland, Italy, Holland and Netherlands. 325 


flower-stems, which were three. or four feet long; and long-woolled sheep 
got fat on it in moist lands, where they would otherwise have taken the 
rot.— (Agr. Journ. of Bavaria; 15th year.) 

Tatarian Buck-Wheat. This species; Polygonum Tataricum, is said 
to be of much more luxuriant growth than the common sort, fagopyrum ; 
it is, therefore, strongly recommended as preferable to it, especially where 
the plant is grown to be ploughed in as manure. 

Advantages of pruning Fruit-trees in Summer. The removal of shoots 
and leaves at this season, according to M. Hempel, removes also a number 
of caterpillars and eggs of insects, consequently the birds devour a greater 
portion of what remains. — (Ann. Pomolog. d’ Altenb. 1824.) We may 
add, that wounds heal more quickly in the summer season, and that the 
cherry is apt to exude gum when pruned at any other period of the 
year. Summer pruning, however, in many cases, is attended with incon- 
venience. 


SWITZERLAND. 


Paragréles ; Thunder and Hail Protectors in Savoy. By order of the Sar- 
dinian government, the Royal Society of Agriculture of Turin appointed 
a commission to enquire into every thing which had been written or 
done on the subject of these machines. The following is the result of 
some trials in Savoy. 1467 paragréles were placed in the neighbourhood 
of Chambery, on a chain of mountains, from their base to their summits. 
On the 5th of August 1825, a violent storm took place, which extended 
beyond the district planted with paragréles, but which was unattended by 
hail within that district; but without it, both hail and thunder were 
abundant. On the 11th of November following, in which hail fell both 
within and without the district protected, a proprietor who had only 
four paragréles, each twenty-two feet high, saved his lands from a violent 
storm, which fell on those of his neighbours. 


ITALY. 


Power of Vegetable Life. A branch of the Cotyledon coccinea was pre- 
sented by Professor Gazzari to the Accademi di Geofiles, in Jan. 1824. 
Although it had been separated from the mother branch more than sixteen 
months, during which time it had been wrapped up in paper, and set aside 
by accident in a dark dry place, yet it was in full vegetation, affording a 
strong illustration of the vital power of some plants. — (Revue Encyclop. 
25, pao.) 


HOLLAND AND THE NETHERLANDS. 


Caterpillars. The injury done by these insects on the continent is 
much greater than we have any idea of in Britain; probably from their 
rapid increase during dry weather, the periods of which are of longer 
continuance than in this country. In the agricultural journal of the 
Netherlands, accounts are given of their denuding whole forests, and of 
the poplar tree, as being peculiarly liable to their attacks. They have 
scarcely any remedy, excepting in encouraging the production of small 
birds; in gardens, the spray and leaves are frequently cut off, for which 
purpose, in the case of high trees, they employ the averruncator, — 
(Encyc. of Gard. fig. 121.), under the name of the echénillier. 

Single-flowered White Camellia. At the meeting on the 19th of Feb- 
ruary 1825, of the Society of Flora, at Brussels, the medal of honour was 
given to M. Vandermaelin, for presenting this plant, which was considered 
remarkable for its rarity, vigour, brilliancy, and beauty. 

Accelerating Culinary Vegetables. The inhabitants in the neighbourhood 


326 Notices. — Denmark, Russia and Poland, §c. 


of Louvain, even to the humblest cottager, are remarkable for the culture 
of their gardens. Many of them sow in Winter in pots and boxes, and 
preserve in their chambers, peas, beans, kidney-beans, potatoes, &c. ; and 
when the weather is sufficiently mild in Spring, they transplant them in 
the open garden, carefully covering them every evening with straw, or 
haulm of any kind, to protect them from accidental frosts. The conse- 
quence is, crops in maturity nearly a month before those sown in the 
open ground in the usual manner.— (Bull. Univ., Jan. 1826.) 

Employment of Lunatics in Agriculture. Brussels, Antwerp, and a 
number of surrounding cities, instead of confining their lunatics in hos- 
pitals, pension them out among the farmers, where all of them improve 
in health, some of them make tolerable workmen, and a few recover en- 
tirely. —(Jour. d’ Agr. des Pays-Bas, Jan. 17, 1826.) 

Beurré-Delbecq. This is a new Autumn pear, raised by M. Van Mons 
from seed sown about thirteen years ago; it is named after the editor of a 
public journal (Messag. des Sci. et Arts), ripens in Autumn, and is said 
to be a very superior fruit. The tree is more lofty, and of a handsomer 
form, than any other variety. —(Bull. Univ., March 1826.) 


DEN MARK. 


Populus nigra. There is a tree of this species in the south of Zealand, 
near the school of Herlussholm, upwards of 100 feet high, anda trunk 22 
in circumference. It is of great age, very majestic, and in full vigour, 
without a decayed branch. — (Feldborg’s Denmark.) 

Bones as Manure. The Royal Society of Sciences of Copenhagen, 
have offered a prize of 100 crowns for the best essay on this subject, 
ee be written in Latin, French, German, English, Swedish, or 

anish. 


RUSSIA AND POLAND. 


The Agricultural Society of Moscow, over which Prince Galitzin presides, 
and to which the late Emperor Alexander gave a considerable grant of 
land near Moscow for the purpose of establishing a farm, is going on very 
prosperously. It has already collected in its school above eighty pupils 
from various parts of Russia, even from Kamtschatka; and the journal of 
its proceedings has been so much in demand, that it has been found neces- 
sary to reprint the volumes for the first two years. 

Horticulture in Kamtschatka. M. Fischer, of Gorinka, had sent a par- 
ticular variety of potatoe to the commissary of the village of Milkowo, 
which produced an extraordinary crop; and several varieties of cabbage 
and turnips, never seen there before, have been also cultivated with com- 
plete success. Some of the inhabitants are not altogether reconciled to 
the use of these novelties as articles of diet ; while cthers have disagreed 
as to the parts of the plants to be used. It is somewhat singular that the 
foliage of the potatoe should have been generally preferred, and that the 
red cabbage should have scarcely been reckoned edible. —(St. Petersd. 
Zeitschrift., Jul. 1825.) 

Warsaw. Land is so cheap in the neighbourhood of this city, that it 
may be purchased for about 40s. per English acre. The market is very 
imperfectly supplied with even the commonest vegetables, -and there is no 
nurseryman. ‘There is, however, a very large botanic garden nearly com- 
pleted, of which we hope soon to be able to give a plan and description. 
(J. L., Jan. 15.) 


NORTH AMERICA. 


Compressed Hay. Bramah’s hydraulic press will reduce 300lbs. of hay 
to 12 cubic feet. In this state it will retain its qualities for an unknown 


Notices. — North America. 327 


length of time, either on land or at sea. A considerable trade in com- 
pressed hay is carried on between Northambi in America, and India. 


Extract of a Letter from Mr, William Hall, late of Ewell, Surrey, and now 
of Wanbro, Edwards County, Illinois. Communicated by William 
Stevenson, Esq. :-— 


“ I shall devote the remainder of this letter to giving you some accounts 
of my practice of gardening in this country, as well as my short experience 
of it under this climate will allow me. The accompanying plan of my garden, 
(fig. 59. page 331.) though rude, is accurate; and the position of every tree 
and crop distinctly marked, and it may serve to give you a tolerably correct 
idea of the place itself, always bearing in mind, that the upper end where 
the house stands(a) is elevated thirty feet above the lower, towards which 
it slopes with a gradual descent. The worm-fence, (fig. 58. page 342.) 
with its multiplicity of ragged angles, gives it a rough appearance, and 
could ] have introduced the stumps, which had all trees standing on 
them when we came, and are from one to three feet in diameter, you 
would have thought it still more so. These stumps are still very nume- 
rous, particularly at theupper end; the vineyard alone (d) contains forty- 
two of them. Though a great impediment to cultivation, they are not 
perceptible when the crops get up, and the fence itself, if clothed with vines 
or fruit-trees, might not only support great quantities of fruit, but be ren- 
dered very ornamental. The part intended for the kitchen-garden, you will 
see, consists of three borders, one of eleven feet wide, and eight chains long, 
on each side the centre path, and a wide one at the bottom, two rods broad 
and six chains long. This form is preferred to a square of the same contents, 
as being more convenient for cultivation by the plough; as affording the con- 
venience of a shady or sunny border, (an object of importance in this cli- 
mate,) and also for the introduction of four lines of espaliers, by which you 
perceive the borders are bounded ; a double row of strawberries is planted 
along the lower lines, which, perhaps, you might have been puzzled to make 
out without this explanation The six squares contain half an acre each, 
except the two upper ones, which are encroached upon by two rows of 
vines, and will most probably be wholly occupied by them as soon as I dis- 
gover what kind of grape best suits this soil and climate : but this I must find 
out by my own experience, for settlers ina new country can have no benefit 
from that of their predecessors. These half-acre squares were projected with 
a view to experiments on the cultivation of flax, hemp, cotton, tobacco, 
indigo, and various other productions to which this soil and climate are 
adapted, and particularly to the raising of seed-corn and grasses. To none of 
these articles have I hitherto applied them, except to the raising a supply of 
seed-oats of which I had last year an acre from about a tea-cupful of seed, 
which I received from Mr. Taunton, and which were labelled “ Georgian,” 
but perfectly resembling a good sample of potatoe oats. I am glad to say 
that hitherto they have not degenerated. Had the Spring barley come in 
time for sowing last year, I should most likely have had a square occupied 
with it next year; however, it comes up well, and I must wait a year longer 
before I get enough to sow a square. 

“ My vines thrive well; they are planted in rows seven feet apart ard five 
and a-half between each plant, and trained upright to stakes seven feet high. 
This 1 understood to be the general method in the vine countries ; of course 
the vines must be pruned very low, and the fruit grow near the ground. I 
feel almost convinced this is not the best way here, several of my vines 
having made shoots twenty feet long last year. I consider it preferable to 
qieat them twelve or fifteen feet apart, and to train them as espaliers, 

eeping always two bearing branches on each side of the former year’s 


328 Notices. —North America. 


erowth in regular succession, and pruning them to the stem after they have 
borne one crop; this plan I shall partially adopt this year, but wait the 
event before I step out of what is said to be the general mode. I have now 
three kinds of grapes in my vineyard: the Cape, which I procured from 
Vevay (of the wine trom which, and the produce, from 250 to 200 gallons 
per acre, I spoke in a former letter); and the Madeira and the Lisbon, which I 
procured from Harmony. To these I shall shortly add the black Hamburgh, 
the sweetwater, the muscadine, and the Isabella, a native American grape, 
highly spoken of, all which are now growing in Mr. Pell’s nursery, of which 
I now have the management. Mr. Pell and his family having left this for 
New York, I have engaged to superintend his nursery (which had been 
established at considerable trouble and expence) for five years, in consider- 
ation of receiving half the proceeds, after deducting labour and expences. 
I am also to receive half the produce of his vineyard. 

“J expected to have made some wine this year, there being every ap- 
pearance of a great crop, but a white frost, which happened a few nights ago, 
has cut eff two-thirds of the bloom here, and considerably injured my own, 
but not nearly in so great a degree, owing to the circumstance of my vine- 
yard being planted in a more elevated situation. 

“Vines and peaches should always in this country be planted in high 
ground; J had plenty of peaches from the orchard at the house last year, 
while from the rows of trees below, the first of which is only three chains 
from it, and the descent not more than ten feet, I had not a single peach, 
and this year I have but few upon the four lower trees , but plenty upon the 
upper double row; the want of the knowledge of this fact has occasioned 
great disappointment to many persons who have planted their peach 
orchards in low, level situations; till this year they have hardly any fruit, 
and even now, although their trees blossomed well, and the fruit was well 
set, it has been very much cut up by the frost which I mentioned. It was 
thought, when I arrived in 1821, that the climate of this country was un- 
favourable to peaches; that year they had totally failed through this State ; 
the next year there was abundance in the elevated situations; in 1823 the 
blossom was all destroyed in embryo, by a severe frost in the beginning of 
January, which, coming on immediately after rain, glazed all the twigs with 
ice. 1824 was a peach year, and so, in all probability, will this be. You 
will see by the plan, that I intend to supply the places of all the peach- 
trees below the house with other fruit. All the peach-trees hitherto planted 
in this part being raised from stones, there is, of course, a great variety in 
the fruit. Some of mine last year were very delicious, and none of them 
bad. There is a small collection of the most esteemed varieties through 
the Union, in the nursery, which I shall this year increase if I find any 
super-excellent. I bud upon plum-stocks, which I expect will render the 
trees more lasting; fourteen or fifteen years being said to be the utmost 
period of their perfection in this country. Their rapidity of growth is, in- 
deed,very great. In order to give you some idea of it, I have measured one 
of mine, not the largest, but the most regular and beautiful tree I ever be- 
held. It was planted in March 1822, and was then one year old, and 
headed down to within eighteen inches of the ground. When pruned in 
the Spring following, I left six shoots at regular distances to form the head, 
and it now spreads over a circle of sixteen feet diameter, is seventeen feet high, 
and measures eighteen inches round the stem. It bore many dozens of 
peaches last year, and has now as many hundreds upon it, about the size of 
atick bean. Of nectarines, almonds, apricots, plums, and cherries, we 
have had no experience ; we have them in the nursery,where they grow well, 
but are not old enough to bear; but I have fruitset on the mayduke 
cherry, and on the almond. Two of the latter are planted at the extremi- 
ties of my flower-borders; they are but one year’s shoot from the bud, in- 


Notices.— North America. 329 


serted in a plum-stock close to the ground, are eight feet high, and one of 
them has an almond set upon it. : 

Wild plums are very abundant with us, and some of them very good, 

different from any I ever before tasted, the pulp of them leaving the skin as 
freely as a gooseberry, to which they also bear some resemblance in taste. 
We have filberts, Barcelona nuts, and walnuts, in the nursery, but not in 
bearing. Of all the nuts, seeds, &c. which came from England with the 
trunk, not one has vegetated. Should you send any more, pack them 
in sugar, which I understand to be the best preservative. [No. See 
Mr. Lindley’s directions, p. 535.] Of pears we have specimens of the 
best varieties; but not being able to procure pear pips, we have been 
obliged to graft and bud them upon apple-stocks. ‘They have shot very 
vigorously the first year, but whether they will continue to thrive remains 
to be seen. Icome now to the apple; the fruit, after all, of the greatest 
importance. All the orchards hitherto planted, to which common at- 
tention has been paid, thrive remarkably well. The first, which was 
planted in the Spring of 1818, has now trees in it large enough to bear fruit 
sufficient to make a barrel of cyder each; but, with the exception of about 
five acres of Mr. Pell’s orchard, and some trees of mine, are the only apples 
yet planted from seed. We have a good selection-of the best kinds in the 
nursery, particularly three of the best sorts of the celebrated Newark cyder 
apples, of which, and some others, I mean to train about 200 trees, to plant 
five acres adjoining the south side of my garden fence. This situation is ex- 
-ceedingly well adapted for an orchard, and if properly attended to, there is 
no doubt there will be onethere, to which very few, if any, will be superior. 
You will by this time, perhaps, think I have said quite enough upon the 
subject of fruit trees ; I shall now quit it, and, after giving you ashort ac- 
count of our method of budding and grafting here, proceed to that of vege- 
tables. In budding we differ from the manner which used to be practised in 
the “ old country,” in not extracting any part of the wood from the bud, 
but inserting it in the stock in the same state in which it was cut from the 
shoot. In grafting we get rid of the disagreeable operation of claying, by 
putting on the graft close to the root of the stock, and earthing it up after. 
This mode we find so successful, that not one bud or graft in twenty-five fails. 
When I came here J heard of no one who understood budding. I taught 
Mr. Pell, but the method of inserting the bud without taking out the wood 
was his own discovery ; not being able to assign any satisfactory reason for 
so doing, he omitted it, and the result proving successful we have since 
continued the practice. 

But now to the subject of vegetables. You will see some put down in 
the plan of which you know nothing but the name, and one, the ochra, 
of which before you perhaps have not even heard. We cultivate this plant 
chiefly as a substitute for coffee, to which it is little inferior; it is also used 
in its unripe state in soups, like green peas. The seed is about the size of 
a small pea, and grows in a singular kind of pod, to which I know nothing 
similar. The flower bears a resemblance to the cotton and the althea, and 
‘is very ornamental. It is a large spreading plant, very productive, and 
should stand, at least, four feet apart. 

The Lima, or butter-bean, is a very fine vegetable ; it grows like a scar- 
let-runner, ‘and requires poles; it is used like the broad bean in England, 
which it resembles in shape, is not so large, quite white, and is very 
good in its dry state, as well as its green. I prize this bean much, and it 
makes ample amends for the want of the Windsor bean, which does not suit 
this climate. I have tried it more than once, but never could get more than 
the seed again ; whereas the Lima is exceedingly productive. The sweet 
potatoe is another plant which requires a warmer climate than yours to 
bring it to perfection. This isa species of convolvulus, and resembles what 


330 Notices. — North America. 


we used to call Beth vine; it is here very productive, and produces large 
roots, but not so bigas in more southern climates, where it is said to grow 
so large as a man’s thigh, and so long that the Negroes sometimes sit upon 
one end while the other is roasting ; but this I by no means vouch for, but 
can testify that it is a most excellent vegetable. I cultivate no other plant 
for the table with which you are unacquainted, unless it be roasting-ears of 
an early variety of Indian corn, which comes in after green peas, to which it 
is almost equal, and is prepared in much less time for the table. ’ 

Asparagus thrives very well, and is exceedingly productive here; it comes 
in about the middle of April, and, except care has been taken to protect 
the cabbage and kale from frost, is our earliest vegetable, and, were it only 
upon that account, would be very desirable. Sea-kale would, I think, 
do well here, but, my seed failing, I have had no opportunity of trying it. 
Green peas do very well here; the earliest kinds are fit to gather by the 
second week in May, and the late sorts will stand till the end of June. 
Potatoes grow also very good here; but in general I do not think them ‘SO 
productive orso mealy as in England, although I have had them here quite 
as good (the red potatoe in particular) as I ever tasted. Cabbage and kale 
thrive well, but, if required early, must be protected during Winter. This 
is not difficult; the method I pursue is to place blocks at convenient dis- 
tances, large enough to keep the rails laid on them above the heads of the 
plants; these rails I cover with the rails of the Lima bears, with the haulm 
upon them, and lay other rails across them to keep it from being displaced 
by the wind; and this is all that is requisite to protect them through the 
Winter. In this manner brocoli, and perhaps cauliflower, might, I think, be 

rotected, but I have not had the opportunity of trying the experiment. 
elons and cucumbers are raised with little trouble, and grow very large 
and fine flavoured. I have had musk melons weigh 25lbs., and wter 28\lbs. : 
they are very delicious, but the peaches, I think, bear the bell, 10r we ate 
but few melons last year while the peaches lasted. 

I have now, you will perhaps think, given you rather a prosing account 
of gardening operations, but must crave your patience a little longer, to 
tell you that I cultivate onions, lettuce, parsnips, carrots, beets, radishes, &c. 
by drilling, and find this a much better way than broad-casting ; they are 
much easier thinned out and kept clean, and, as the ground can be almost 
all moved with the hoe, they grow finer. I sow parsnips, and carrots, and 
beets, eighteen inches apart, and the rest twelve. Between my peas, I sow cu- 
cumbers and melons, which spread over the ground when the peas are off. 
Judging from your own experience of the time and labour required to keep 
even a small garden in tolerable order in the old country, you will naturally 
wonder how I can find time to manage mine. To form a true estimate of the 
matter you must take the following circumstances into consideration. In the 
first place, you will remember that the plough is chiefly employed, and that 
when the spade is used, it is attended with comparatively little labour, the 
soil being like a bed of dry mud, and when once cleared and cultivated 
might be dug with a wooden shovel. Inthe next, here is no couch, or any 
other perennial root weed. It is true here are plenty of annual ones, and 
some of enormous growth, which, if left to arrive at maturity, would reach 
fourteen or fifteen feet high, and also of annual grasses ; but all these, if taken 
in time, are soon eradicated, the soil and climate being so favourable for the 
use of the hoe, that by the moderate employment of it, one person can 
keep a large piece of ground quite clean, if he take advantage of fine wea- 
ther during the months of May, June, and July ; — and nothing shoots up 
much after. Thirdly, very little labour is employed on paths and borders, 
and we have no short grass or pleasure-grounds. 


Notices. — North America. 331 


The garden ( fig. 59.) con- 
tains three acres, sloping 
from the house to the east. 
The surrounding fence is 
formed without posts or 
nails, (fig. 58.) by laying 
rough timber, cut into regular 
lengths, one piece over an- 
other in a zigzag direction, 
such as we see sometimes 
done in timber-yards, with 
planks or deals. The ground is planted and cropped as follows. 

« Dwelling-house, at the south end of which is the apiary. 

6, Peach orchard. ; 

ce, Flowers, including two almond-trees. 

d, Vineyard. | 

-e, Standard apple-trees. 


Vou. I. No. 3. AA 


3392 Notices. — South America. 


f, Avenue of peaches and pears alternately on one side, and peaches and 
apricots alternately on the other. 

g, Avenue of pears and cherries onone side, and pears and plums on the 
other. 

h, Oats. 

“4, Fallow. 

k, Border eleven feet wide, planted with espalier apple-trees, and cropped 
with potatoes, parsnips, carrots, onions, lettuce, French-beans, and peas, to 
be succeeded by melons; the walk is six feet wide. 

I, East fence, with a thorn hedge inside. 

m, Melons and cucumbers. 

n, Early maize, commonly called roasting-ears. 

o, Cabbage, and other plants of the brassica kind. 

p, Potatoes. 

g, Asparagus. 

r, Marrowfat peas. 

s, Lima beans, a kind of kidney-bean, or probably a species of dolichos. 

t, Early potatoes. 

u, Early maize. 

v, Ochra (Hibiscus esculentus). 

w, Gooseberries and currants.” 


SOUTH AMERICA. 


Culture of Tea in Brazil. Botanic gardens are established throughout 
the country by government, who have directed the attention of cultivators 
to Camellia bohea and viridis, of which one proprietor already has a plant- 
ation of 4000 plants. (Asiat. Journ. for Nov. 1825.) 

Arracacha. In a report of the Horticultural Society of Jamaica, is a 
description of this plant by Dr. Bancroft, who seems to think its root may 
become nearly as important to Europe as the potatoe. It is about 40 years 
since it was known in Europe that this vegetable was in general use in the 
province of Santa Fé de Bogota, and the adjoining provinces of Brazil. The 
plant was described in Sims’s Annals of Botany, some years ago, (See 
_ Eneyc. of Gard. § 6036.) and in 1821 plants were sent to Jamacia, and in the 
following year to the Horticultural Society of London, Kew, &c. Dr. Ban- 
croft, in examining its botanical characters, found it nearly allied to apium 
andligusticum ; but so different as to be considered a new genus, which he 
proposes should be called Arracacia, as being the nearest approach to the 
name by which it has been known in its native country. The plants sent to 
the Horticultural Society unfortunately died. 

Vegetable Glue. ‘The Combretum guayca which grows in New Barcelona 
produces a kind of glue called guayca. It resembles the best glue extracted 
from the animal kingdom, and is used by the carpenters of Angostura for 
all the purposes to which glue is applied in Europe. It is found perfectl 
prepared between the bark and the alburnum, and an astonishing ayate 
ance of it issues from the twining branches of the plant as soon as they are 
cut. It probably resembles, in its chemical properties, bird-lime, which ma; 
be called the glue of the berries of the misletoe and the inner bark of a 
holly. (Humboldt’s Travels.) 


ASIA. ° 


Apples marked with the impression of a leaf, are sold in the bazars of 
Persia. To produce this impression, a leaf of some flower or shrub is 
glued or fastened with a thread on several parts of the fruit, while yet 
growing; the apple gradually ripens, and all that the sun reaches becomes 
red; the parts covered by the leaves remaining of a pale green or yellow 
colour. (Newsp.) 


Notices. — England. 333 


Art. II. Domestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


Improvement mm Paving. A pamphlet has recently been published by 
Colonel Macirone, entitled, “ Hints to Paviors,’? which well deserves the 
attention of every one who has any thing to do with rural architecture, or 
the public ways in towns. Colonel M.’s improvement consists in em- 
ploying pressure in the three different stages of paving: “ First, to harden 
the ground previously to laying the stones; secondly, to fix and depress 
them when laid ; and, thirdly, to equalize and perfect a pavement after it has 
been some time in use, by applying the pressure only on the protuberant 
parts.” The machine proposed to be employed is similar to a pile-driver, 
fixed to a horizontal frame with wheels, so that it may be easily drawn 
along any pavement, and employed to beat down protuberant stones. 

Bones for Manure. Three large steam-mills and one horse-mill have 
lately been erected in the neighbourhood of Lincoln for grinding bones for 
agricultural purposes. The use of bones as manure is greatly increasing 
in Lincolnshire, Yorkshire, and several adjoining counties ; and the same 
manure has lately been extensively employed in East Lothian, where it 
was first introduced about 30 years ago, by Mr. Sherrief, of Captain Head, 
who had rollers for grinding them attached to his thrashing-machine. {m- 
mense loads of bones are brought into the port of Hull by the Dutch. 
The bones so brought appear highly desiccated ; but.as they are not white, | 
as if bleached, it is more than probable that they are carefully collected 
from the fields of warfare. At the re-embarking of the British troops at, 
the retreat of Corunna, it will be recollected that the cavalry horses were 
dispatched in ranks, to prevent their falling into the hands of the Freneh ; 
and it is probable that from such sources as these some of the prodigious 
supplies of bones of horses are procured. 


The following letter conveys valuable information to those who may be 
desirous of employing this excellent manure. 


“ Sir, Louth, 20th April, 1826. 

“ T thank you for, &c., and hasten to communicate in return the inform- 
ation I can gather here relative to your enquiries about ground bones. 
What may be the quantity ground, or capable of being ground, at Lincoln, 
I know not; but I am told it is not greater than the quantity ground in this 
town, where there are two bone-mills, one worked by water, the other by 
steam. The navigation from Louth to the sea is much shorter and much 
cheaper than it is from Lincoln; and Mr. Nell, of this place, the owner of 
the steam-engine, says he could deliver a cargo of ground bones at any place 
on the eastern side of London-bridge at 2s. 6d. per bushel, which price 
would include the freight and every other charge. Mr. Nell’s mill grinds 
half-inch bones, and the bone-dust, which, he says, makes a difference of 
nearly a stone in the weight of every bushel, compared with those from which 
the dust is sifted out, as is sometimes done, is included in his measure. A 
cargo for our small sloops would contain about 2500 bushels, which is about 
the quantity used every year by the farmers in general in this neighbour- 
hood for their turnip land; though we have one large farmer, Mr. Dawson, 
of Withcall, who, I understand, uses not less than 12,000 bushels every 
year. His farm is situate in what are called the Wolds, the hills, of Lin- 
colnshire, where the soil is, for the most part, very shallow, stony, and 
acrid, and requires twenty bushels to the acre, though tolerable soil does not 
require more than fifteen, nor good soil more than ten. This manure is 
becoming the most common one used in this county, where, indeed, the 
Wold farmers cannot depend, with any degree of certainty, upon their 
turnip crops, without the application of ground bones. If the gentleman 

oda 


334 Notices. — England. 


you allude to thinks proper, he can procure a cargo from Mr. Richard 
Nell, who trades regularly with London, but who could not ship less than 
a cargo, since bones cannot be conveniently put on board a vessel with any 
other thing. I am not engaged practically in farming, but the farmers 
hereabouts say that no manure returns such good crops and such good 
profit as ground bones. 
“ Tam, Sir, &c. 
ei sce ee 


We have lately been informed, that previously to the exportation of 
these bones by the Dutch, they undergo a process by which their gluten is 
extracted, and converted into carpenter’s glue and portable soup-cakes. 
If so, such bones, as manure, will not be much better than lime. It is rather 
singular that the Dutch, who are so remarkably assiduous in collecting 
other kinds of manure (Encyc. of Agr. § 487.) should not use the bones 
themselves. 

A good way for gardeners to collect bones for vine-borders, or other pur- 
poses, is to make it known in the neighbourhood that they will give so much 
per hundred weight for all that is brought to them. As they are received 
they should be broken by hammers into small or large pieces, as the effect 
is intended to be immediate and powerful, or gradual and prolonged. For 
distant effect a number of the bones should be buried whole, on the same 
principle that opium-eaters envelope their pills in paper to retard dissolu- 
tion in the stomach. 

The Yorkshire Horticultural Society held their May meeting at Bald- 
win’s Hotel, Kirkstall. The weather was beautiful, and the attendance 
numerous and highly respectable. The exhibition of fruit, consisting of 
pine-apples, grapes, peaches, and cherries, considering the early season of 
the year, was fine, and there were also good specimens of potatoes, cauli- 
flowers, and cucumbers, and a beautiful assemblage of tulips, wall-flowers, 
auriculas, rich and varied exotics, and hardy bouquets, geraniums, &c. 
The chairman, the Rev. J. A. Rhodes, congratulated the meeting on the 
successful efforts of the Society in producing such a luxuriant display of , 
fruit and flowers at that early season of the year, and on the full and re- 
spectable attendance on the occasion. The judges of the fruit and flowers 
were Messrs. John Senior, James Craven, and John Gough. Numerous 
prizes were awarded ; among others, 2 for grapes, 2 for cherries, 2 for auri- 
culas, 10 for tulips, 1 for a pine-apple, 1 for peaches, and several for 
potatoes, cauliflowers, cucumbers, &c. ‘I'he exhibition was enriched by 
specimens of flowers and fruits from the gardens of several ladies and gentle- 
men in the neighbourhood. Mrs. Dealtry, of Lofthouse-hall, an honorary 
member and patroness of the society, presented the meeting with some beau- 
tiful specimens of wall-flowers, of delightful fragrance, and of rich colour ; 
also a dish of preserved apples, quite plump, and in good condition. This’ 
lady communicated to the meeting, through the medium of the chairman, 
her mode of preserving them, which was highly approved. Fine cucum- 
bers, grapes, geraniums, exotic plants, &c. from the garden of the Rev. 
J..A. Rhodes. Lasiopetalum quercifolium, Cactus grandiflorus, &c. Mr. 
Barnes exhibited a drawing of grass-plots, or a plan for laying out pleasure- 
grounds. Mr.Joseph Perry, artist to the London Horticultural Society, (?) 
who intends taking up his residence in this part of the country, exhibited a 
variety of highly-finished drawings of fruit, for which a prize was awarded. 
— (Leed's Mercury, May 20.) 

We should feel much gratified by a communication from Mrs. Dealtry on 
her mode of preserving apples; and also from Mr. Barnes, with his plans 
for laying out pleasure-grounds. Our readers, we are sure, will second our 
wishes on these subjects. 3 

The first exhibition of the Hereford Horticultural Society took place 


Notices. — England. 335 


at the Shire-Hall in that city on Tuesday, May 23d. On a table in 
the room were a plate of remarkably fine strawberries, Wilmot’s superb ; 
large and fine kidney potatoes from New Court (the Rev. —— Lilly), and 
a plate of mushrooms from Sir E. Stanhope’s garden, at Longworth. 
P. Jones, Esq , of Sugwas, sent four sorts of apples, in such excellent pre- 
servation that some of them were nearly as fresh as when taken from the 
tree. 

_ American Aloe. A superb specimen flowered in September last, in the 
gardens of EK. P. Bastard, Esq., M. P, at Kitley, Devonshire. The flower-stalk 
was 20 feet high, and displayed upwards of 2000 flowers, arranged on 
whorls of horizontal branches, so as to resemble an immense candelabra. 
The plant is 110 years old, and is known to have been in the Kitley gar- 
dens upwards of a century. 

Zoological Society. A prospectus has been issued, sanctioned by the 
most respectable names, for the establishment of a society bearing the same 
relation to zoology that horticulture does to botany. The objects are to 
be the introduction of new varieties, breeds, and races of animals, for the 
purpose of domestication, or for stocking our farm-yards, woods, plea- 
sure-grounds, and wastes; with the establishment of a general zoological 
collection, consisting of prepared specimens in the different classes and 
orders, so as to afford a correct view of the animal kingdom at large, in as 
complete a series as may be practicable, and at the same time point out the 
analogies between the animals already domesticated and those which are 
similar in character, upon which the first experiments may be made. 

Cockles. Some naturalists have discovered, between Greta-bridge and 
Darlington, a great number of cockles, of the species which live in salt 
water, Cardium edule, living at the bottom of deep ditches in a peat moss. 
This remarkable fact coincides with other recent observations, in proving 
that a number of salt-water fish will also live in fresh water. It opens a 
fine source of improvement to such as have pieces of water in their parks, 
to attempt the introduction of new breeds there. Mr. Bakewell, in his 
entertaining and instructive travels in the Tarentaise, has already sug- 
gested the idea of naturalizing several species of foreign fish. ‘ 

Salt. From several experiments made by Mr. Bennet, and detailed at a 
late meeting of the Bath and West of England Society, it appears that salt 
is “ not so valuable as a manure, as in making the corn ripen earlier than it 
would otherwise do ;” that is, it isnot a manure at all, but merely a stimu- 
Jant. 

Packing Seeds and Plants in Foreign Countries. In a pamphlet on_this 
subject, prepared by Mr. Lindley for the use of the collectors for the Horti- 
cultural Society, and dated 1825, the following information is given. 

1. Seeds. In cold countries dry them well, wrap them in dry brown 
paper, and place them in a dryand airy part of the ship. In tropical coun- 
tries keep the seed in the vessels or pods, and wrap them in dry paper ; 
but clean seeds of berries, or eatable stone-fruits, from their pulp, and 
wrap them in paper, unless they are oily or resinous. If this be the case, 
pack them in clay. Seeds of the mango, of the guttifere, magnoliacez, 
sterculiacez, acorns, and walnuts, may be thus conveyed from hot coun- 
tries much better than by any other mode; or sow in boxes of earth. 
“ Seeds should never be allowed to cross the equator, because the extreme 
humidity and heat of the equinoctial atmosphere universally proves very 
destructive to their vegetative powers.” _ } 

2. Cuttings of Fruit Trees. In the Winter season stick the lower ends 
into a potatoe, or lump of well-tempered moist clay; then pack in 
moss, &c. d : 

3. Bulbous or Tuberous-rooted Plants. Dry them till all the moisture 
in their outer coats is evaporated, and then treat them much in the same 
way as seeds. 

AA 3 


336 Notices. — England. 


4. Living Shrubby or Herbaceous Plants. Plant them in square wooden 
boxes, and place these close together in a larger box, with a glass lid; as 
described and figured in Encyc. of Gard. (§ 145.) ; 

5. Epiphytical Plants. Get them in as large and old masses as possible, 
and pack them loosely in moss, in boxes so constructed that the plants 
may be exposed to a free admission of air, but be protected from the sea- 
water. 'To the above we may add, . 

Aquatic Plants. Pack, or rather plant them, loosely in moss, in a vessel 
open, or covered with a netting at top, and containing some water under 
the moss. Sprinkle the moss with water once or twice a-day. In this way 
we brought a rare aquatic from the canal of the Brenta, near Venice, to 
Paris, in the Autumn of 1819. 

6. Specimens of Plants. Dry between leaves of common brown paper ; 
or for such plants as pinuses, heaths, and for fleshy-leaved plants in gene- 
ral, plunge in boiling water before drying, or make the papers in which 
they are laid very hot; either of which practices will prevent them from 
parting from their vitality so irregularly as to fall in pieces in drying, or so 
slowly as to render the operation very long and tedious. 

7. Specimens of fruits. Dried fruits may be packed as seeds; succulent 
ones, placed in vessels filled with cheap weak spirits. : 

8. Specimens of Capsules. Dry them and pack them carefully, so as to 
preserve their shape. 

9, Specimens of the Woods of Commerce. Affix their local or commercial 
names, and try and accompany them by specimens of the leaves, flowers, 
and fruit of the tree from which they were obtained, preserved or packed 
as before directed. 

Ornamental Flower Pots. Mr. Wilmot, of the Lewisham nursery, is 
getting made for sale, a number of ornamental garden-pots and stands for 
the more choice plants usually placed in the conspicuous parts of lawns. 
A few of the patterns he has enabled us to subjoin. (fig. 60.) The 
colour is to be a light fawn. 


CEs we 


The Compression of Timber, by passing planks between rollers, has lately 
been made the subject of a patent. The chief object is its preservation 
from dry rot, by expelling moisture and closing the interstices. 

Regent's Park. We are much gratified to learn, on the authority of 
parliament, that the fences which surround this park will be removed as 
soon as the trees and the turf are sufficiently grown, and the whole thrown 
open to the public, in the same manuer as Hyde Park. The present state 
of the former has hitherto been the opprobrium of foreigners, who have 
looked upon it as indicating an inattention to the enjoyments of the com- 
mon people, which it is satisfactory to learn, does not exist to the extent 
alleged. — One thing we cannot avoid noticing here is, that the single trees 


Scotland. 337 


lately dotted over the open spaces are put in without the slightest regard to 
effect. ‘To say that they are in bad taste, would be paying them a compli- 
ment —but they display no taste whatever ; all that can be said is, that 
somebody has been ordered to plant a number of single trees, and that 
single trees have been planted accordingly. 

Ten-week. Stocks. A great many varieties have been lately raised 
in Saxony by the weavers, and other manufacturers and tradesmen there, 
who seem to have the same sort of taste for flowers as their brethren in 
Britain. Mr. Lee has just presented us with plants of sixty sorts, with 
names ; he imports the seeds annually, and consequently these fine flowers 
will soon become general. 

Dr. Von Martius, the celebrated traveller, is now in London. Though 
old in celebrity, he is quite a young man. He travelled upwards of three 
years-in the Brazils with the late Dr. Spix, and has since published a learned 
and elaborate work, in two quarto volumes, describing a part of the new 
plants discovered, exceeding, in all, 2000 species. The present king of 
Bavaria having no taste for botany, has left Dr. Martius to continue the 
publication of this work at his own expence; and we are sure that every 
man who has a just notion of the value of science would wish to have such 
a work, from such an author, and produced under such circumstances, 
in his library. The plates are coloured, and consist not only of figures of 
plants, many of which are of great singularity, but of specimens of land- 
scape, and general scenery, not less foreign to European ideas. Whoever 
has read the first volume of the personal narrative of Dr. Spix and Dr. 
Martius, translated and published two years ago, cannot but feel an interest 
in the man whose extraordinary thirst for information overcame his repug- 
nance to that most horrid of Indian drinks, Ermer ; great as was the en- 
thusiasm of Dr. Spix, yet he could not conquer his aversion to the horrible 
potion. (See Spix’s and Martius’s Travels, vol.1. London, 8vo.; and Nova 
Genera et Species Plantarum, &c. &c., collegit et descripsit Dr. C. F. P. de 
Martius, vols. 1. and 2. Munich, 4to. 1826.) 


Art. III. Scotland. 


Caledonian Horticultural Society, April 14. ‘The competition show of 
auriculas and polyanthuses, for prizes given by this Society, took place 
in the Physicians’ Hall, and several premiums were awarded. The 
number of exhibitors, either of auriculas or polyanthuses, for the stage, 
was considerably smaller than in some former years. Polyanthuses, 
it is believed, have very generally suffered much during the past Winter. 
The seedling auriculas were rather numerous, and of high promise ; some 
sent by Mr. Macdonald of Newington (and which were necessarily excluded 
from competition, on account of that gentleman having gained the medal 
for seedling auriculas in 1825), were regarded by the connoisseurs as fine 
flowers. ‘The stage polyanthuses of Mr, Hately, and the seedling poly- 
anthuses of Messrs. Dickson and Co., were also much admired. A collec- 
tion of about twenty varieties of polyanthus narcissus, from the open 
border at Biel, formed one of the novelties of this exhibition. 

At the meeting of this society, June the 1st, the best early melon pro- 
duced in competition was a rock canteloupe, raised by Mr. John Macnaughton, 
gardener to Colonel Wauchope at Edmondstone (a meritorious encourager 
of horticulture and of gardeners, who paid ten guineas to make his gardener 
a free ordinary member of this Society): seed sown 1st March, in small 
pots; kept in the pine-pits for 15 days; transplanted 16th March into a 
two-light pit-frame (the Edmondstone frame) ; soil, two parts loam-turf mould, 

AA 4 


338 Scotland. 


one part strong clay, one part rotten dung, one part pit-sand, all well 
mixed. 

Two parcels of grapes were regarded as so nearly equal in merit that 
the committee felt it right to award two medals; one for black Hamburgh, 
raised by Mr. Thomas Inglis, gardener to the Hon. Mrs. Ramsay at Barn- 
ton ; the other, for Frontignac grapes, to Mr. Robert Reid, gardener to Sir 
Alexander Keith, Baronet, of Ravelstone. 

Several baskets of early peas appeared, and all of them were of good 
quality. Those considered best were of the early frame kind, raised by 
Mr. James Arklie, gardener to William Grant, Esquire, of Congalton : sown 
26th October, at the bottom of a south-aspected wall, with a little light 
vegetable mould over them in the drill, covered with afew spruce branches 
in time of hard frost, andkept close to the wall with straw ropes; two pecks 
were sent to the high commissioner’s table on 18th May, the first produce. 
A basket of Nash’s early frame were too ripe ; they were from Mr. Alexander 
Bisset, gardener to Colonel Smyth of Methven; he had had dishes for near 
three weeks previous; his practice was considered so good as to deserve an 
extra medal. For some years past he has sown in January, on reversed 
sward turfs, laid on a slight hot-bed, the turfs being ten inches long by five 
broad; in March, he plants out the entire turfs, with the young peas 
growing on them, which thus escape any check from transplanting. (See 
Gard. Mag. 127.) 

The early potatoes, without bottom heat, were very good. The largest, 
but evidently selected tubers from many plants, were raised by Mr. Inglis, 
at Barnton. Some raised at Dunrobin in Sutherland excited surprise. 

The best double anemones were found to have been cultivated by Mr. 
William Milne, gardener to Gilbert Innes, Esq., of Drum. 

Some very beautiful purple and red Brompton stocks, from the garden 
of John Leven, Esq., Burntisland (which slopes to the south, and is washed 
by. the sea, while it is sheltered from the north), were much admired; and 
an uncommonly luxurious plant of ten-week stock, about six feet in circum- 
ference, from the garden at Barnton, excited general ad:niration. Several 
members were elected. 

The Secretary read a letter from Mr. Bosc, the celebrated Director of 
the Jardin des Plantes, kindly engaging to fulfil the intentions of the late 
Professor Thouin, to send grafts, plants, &c. to the experimental garden at 
Edinburgh, and liberally offering to add such novelties as can be spared 
from the magnificent collection under his charge. (Com. by the Secretary.) 

Caledonian Society’s Garden. The ground-work is nearly completed, and 
also the gardener’s house; and preparations are making for erecting two 
hot-houses. 

The Melon Strawberry. This is a seedling, raised at Aberdeen, and which 
has been declared by Dr. Dyce, of that city, to be the “ finest variety in 
existence.” “ The size and shape of this fruit ina great measure resemble 
the roseberry, but rather larger; the colour is very dark, the flavour ex- 
quisite, and the plant is an abundant bearer and forces well.’ ‘The above 
description, together with two or three plants, were sent to Messrs. Malcolm 
and Gray, of the Kensington Nursery, in the beginning of May last, by Mr. 
Alexander Diack, Secretary to the Aberdeen Horticultural Society. We 
have tasted in Mr. Groom’s garden, Walworth (page 551.), what are there 
called Diack’s No. 1. and No. 2., which are excellent strawberries, and great 
bearers. 

Dumfries Horticultural Society and Garden. Letter from the Secre- 
tary, William Grierson, Esquire. — “ Dear Sir: In the last number of 
your Magazine, I observed your remarks on the Dumfries and Galloway 
Horticultural Society, which are so far very well, with the exception 
to your concluding opinion respecting the experimental garden; which, 
I fear, may damp the patronage to it, if not frustrate the object alto- 


Treland. 339 


gether. The project has met with the approbation of the London 
and Edinburgh Societies; and, from the local situation of Dumfries, it 
has been considered as a very proper place for the formation of such a 
garden, We never contemplated an establishment of an extent to be com- 
pared with those of London or Edinburgh ;'but one on a limited scale, 
rather as a branch of these parent institutions; and as a medium to disse- 
minate improvements in our immediate district, and to induce a spirit of 
emulation amongst gentlemen and their gardeners all over the country. 
Such, I have little doubt, would be the result of an experimental garden; 
and it might also prove a school from which the gardeners in the district 
would derive much advantage. We are removed at a great distance from 
London, and 72 miles from Edinburgh; so that comparatively few of us 
know any thing of what is going on at these places ; besides the probable 
utility, asapublic ornament,and combining a rational gratification, it deserves 
encouragement, Among the inhabitants of a town of no inconsiderable 
population, such as Dumfries, there must be many who have a taste for 
the cultivation of plants, but possess not the advantage of a garden of their 
own; even in that view it might prove of importance ; but as to proving 
the cause of the dissolution of the Society that set it agoing, with due 
deference to your opinion, f cannot see how that inference can be drawn ; 
since experience has not furnished any example, for it is unknown to me, 
that any provincial garden has ever yet been formed. I am, &c. 
Dumfries, April 7. “ W. Grierson.” 


Art. IV. Ireland. 


Horticultural Society of Ireland, April 17th. At the annual spring show 
of flowers 3 prizes were given for green-edged auriculas, 3 for grey. edged, 
3 for white-edged, 2 for self-coloured or non-variegated sorts, and 2 for seed- 
lings. For polyanthuses 5 prizes were given ; for red hyacinths 2, for blue 2, 
for white 4, and 5 for yellow. A first, second, and third prize were given 
for 6 pots of exotics; 4 prizes were given for broccoli, 2 for apples, 2 for 
pears, and 2 for cucumbers. The judges were, the Marquis Wellesley, and 
fifteen other noblemen and gentlemen, with four nurserymen, and Mr. 
Mackay, the curator of the Trinity garden. We regret that the names 
of the particular varieties of flowers, fruits, &c. are not given in the 
advertisement, as it prevents great part of the benefit which would result 
to practical men. For instance, it would have been of some use to many 
in Ireland to know what sorts of pears and apples will keep to the middle 
of April. ‘ 

May 1. The committee met, and awarded various premiums for peaches, 
grapes, melons,,peas, turnips, and cauliflowers. 

Farming Society of Ireland, April, 8th.— His excellency the Lord Lieu- 
tenant, patron of the Society, was good enough to send to the Directors 
some specimens of Indian agricultural seeds, for the purpose of experiment 
as to their cultivation in this climate. Mr. Synge sent in an improved 
model of his furze-bruiser, worked off his threshing-mill, and with the 
labour of two men, supplying 17 horses and 14 cows with wholesome food, 
at 1d. per bushel, or about 4d. per day for each animal. (Jrish Farmers’ 
Journal.) 

Mulberry Trees. The company for the promotion of silk in Ireland 
have given instructions to their agent, Mr. George Wade Foott, to accom- 
modate any gentleman of landed property with such a number of the trees 
as he may have occasion for, charging them only the first cost, which, we 
understand, is but 4d. each. An opportunity will, therefore, be afforded 
to gentlemen for supplying themselves by the cargo of the Esther with 


340 Horticultural Society and Garden. 


200,000 trees, which are daily expected. A parcel of mulberry-seed is also 
expected on board the Esther, and Mr. Foott has directions to give such . 
gentlemen as may wish for it a sufficient quantity for sowing; the company 
liberally intending to benefit the country at large, by the general introduc- 
tion of the silk manufacture.— (Cork Constitution of April 1st.) 

Cultivation of the Grape. ‘Towards the close of last year all the Irish 
newspapers noticed the singular success which for five years has rewarded 
the exertions of Mr. John Pendergast, in cultivating large crops of well 
ripened grapes in the open air, without any artificial heat whatever, at 
Innistionge. Mr. Pendergast is now so fully persuaded of the practica- 
bility of producing abundant crops of this much esteemed fruit in warm 
situations in the county of Kilkenny, trained over the surface of the 
ground, by an improved system of culture, and the natural influence of the 
sun alone, that he is propagating plants from these very prolific vines, to 
stock a piece of ground containing about a quarter of an acre, which he 
means to train in the continental style. Judging from what he has already 
experienced, of these vines being capable of doing in the open air, he 
calculates that this quarter of an acre, so planted, will leave him a very 
considerable sum in three years, besides paying ground rent, and every 
other expence. — (Dublin Evening Post.) 

Lectures on Botany at Belfast. Doctor Drummond is now delivering, 
at the Belfast Academical Institution a course of lectures on such wild 
garden plants as may be found in flower, in the neighbourhood of Belfast; 
in which he explains their botanical characters, their history and uses, and 
the general principles of Linnean botany. The above-mentioned course is 
attended principally by ladies, of whom between forty and fifty attend 
regularly and zealously. At the solicitation of a number of young men 
whose avocations in business prevent their attendance on a mid-day class, 
Dr. Drummond has a morning class on the same days at eight o’clock, 
which is attended by twenty members, a number perhaps as great as could 
reasonably be expected, considering that this is the second course of 
botany ever given in Belfast; that there is no botanic garden; and that a 
taste for the science has been little cultivated or encouraged. 


Art. V. Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Hort. Soc. Aprii4. Communications were read on propagating roses; 
on growing the pine-apple without. the aid of bottom-heat ; and one by Mr. 
A, Stewart, gardener at Valleyfteld, accompanied with a drawing, (fig. 61.) 
en a neat method of training espalier trees. The articles exhibited were 


some varieties of the Camellia japonica, and the double yellow rosa 
Banksiz, with small bright yellow flowers, from the garden of the Society ; 
eighty-four sorts of apples, in good preservation, from Mr. Ronalds, of 
Brentford ; some Colmar and Bonchretien pears; tart rhubarb; a double- 


Horticultural Society and Garden. 341 


flowering plum from the Isle of Wight; and some fruit of the Glycosmis 
citrifolia from the garden of the Society. This fruit has a sweetish taste, 
and resembles that of the white or amber currant in appearance. There 
were likewise exhibited a map of the island of St. Michael’s, and a drawing 
of a proliferous-headed Chinese pine-apple. 

April 18. A paper by the president was read on pears. Mr. Knight bad 
begun so early as 1810 to impregnate the blossoms of the swan’s egg with 
different varieties of the finer French pears, with a view of producing some 
new and improved sorts, which might be grown as standards and espaliers. 
A number of the seedlings having now fruited, a few were selected which 
appeared to have all the hardiness of the swan’s egg, with some of the high 
flavour of the French sorts. Mr. Knight thinks these may be advantageously 
introduced into general cultivation; but as the first year’s fruits of a seed- 
ling are not always a fair sample of what the tree will ultimately produce, 
he is unwilling to recommend them till they have been farther tried; and 
in order that they may be compared with other sorts in the garden of the 
Society he has sent grafts, &c. The articles exhibited were, a fine speci- 
men of what is called Rhododendron fragrans, from the nursery of 
Messrs. Chandler and Buckingham, elsewhere noticed by us, as a hy- 
brid, between Azalea pontica and Rhododendron ponticum, in which the 
habit and general appearance of the latter are united with the fragrance of 
the former. ‘Two other seedling Rhododendrons, with the prevailing cha- 
racter of R. Catawbiense, were exhibited by the same cultivators; a fine 
specimen of Oncidium altissimum, an epiphyte, with a raceme of brownish 
flowers above a yard long, from the garden of the Society; some sea-cale, 
and tart rhubarb (R. hybridum) very strong; some asparagus; three sorts 
of forced strawberries, also from the Society’s garden; flowers of Thun- 
bergia alata, yellow and very fragrant, also from the garden of Robert 
Barclay, Esq. It was observed by the secretary, respecting the asparagus, 
that seeds from different parts of Britain and the Continent were in culti- 
vation in the garden, for the purpose of ascertaining if there really were 
different varieties of that vegetable, and that as far as the experiment had 
gone the conclusion seemed to be in the negative. The asparagus is less 
liable to sport than most plants which have been in high cultivation, and 
nearly the same thing may be said of the sea-cale. 

A blossom was exhibited of a new species of Camellia, named C. Japo- 
nica Rawesiana, recently imported from China by Capt. Rawes, and pre- 
sented to Thos. Carey Palmer, Esq. of Bromley. A specimen of woollen net- 
ting, for protecting wall-trees, was exhibited by Sir Robt. Vaughan ; it can 
be produced in North Wales for five-pence a square yard. Some early Chas- 
selas and black Hamburgh grapes, orange and stone-pippin, and Beachamwell 
apples and Bonchretien pears were exhibited and tasted. The seeds dis- 
tributed at this and the former meeting were, mountain pink, (Enothera 
tetraptera, red-fleshed Malta melon, celeriac, white solid cellery, vestia 
lycioides, snake melon, and wheat of the kind from the straw of which 
Leghorn hats are made. sh 

Among the books presented was one by George Bangley, Esq. containing 
representations of plants worked in silk. But what attracted more attention 
than any thing else exhibited, were three imitations of plants, in wax, by a 
French artist, M. Montaban, artificial fower-maker, 225. Piccadilly; two 
of the plants were Camellias in pots, with double flowers, and the third 
was a small orange-tree, with fruit and flowers. The imitation of the leaves 
and flowers was so perfect, that they would have been taken for realities, 
had it not been for the stems and the imitation of mould in the pots, 
neither of which was at all equal to the other parts. fe 

May 2. Among the books presented were the Bon Jardinier for 1826, 
which we shall review in a future Number, anda Number of a work on the rare 


34.2 Horticultural Society and Garden. 


plants of the garden of Geneva. There was also a large drawing of a monstrous 
pine-apple, which had grown in the West Indies, the top of which had spread 
out into asortof cock’s comb shape, about two feet long, edged with various 
crowns. The articles exhibited were, seven varieties of double wall-flower, of 
different shades of colour, from light yellow to blood red ; double and single 
tulips of different sorts; and one flower from a root brought from Persia, 
black bottomed with red and white petals, sharp pointed, pretty, but the 
very reverse of a florist’s flower ; two varieties of pzony, single, or semi- 
double, and both of pale colours; flowers of Ribes aureum, or yellow- 
flowered currant, with fine glossy leaves, a plant now common in the nur- 
series, and which is in fruit at Kew; (the fruit, we were there told, is supposed 
to be excellent ;) a flower of Calceolaria corymbosa, a plant rather difficult 
to keep; flowers of Glycine sinensis, which the secretary observed was one 
of the handsomest plants hitherto introduced from China, perfectly hardy, 
and flowering twice a year, in Spring and Autumn; double yellow rosa 
Banksiz, from the open wall of the Society’s garden, where it is now thickly 
covered with flowers; double-blossomed whin, a variety of Ulex Euro- 
peeus, found a few years ago in Devonshire, a most ornamental shrub, of 
the easiest culture ; a plant of anew variety of Azalea Indica (var. Phoenicea) 
with large purple flowers: it was imported by the Society about a year ago, and 
is the fourth variety of that elegant plant now in the country. The following 
fruits were tasted; Bostock, Scarlet, Keens’ seedling, and Roseberry straw- 
berries ; Marseilles figs, grown in pots, and treated in Mr. Knight’s manner, 
(Encyc. of Gard. § 3161.) from the garden of the Society ; loquats grown in 
the hothouse of Lord Powis, and said tobe a distinct variety from that common 
about London; indeed, the loquat being frequently raised from seed, the 
varieties in the gardens are numerous. ‘The fruit was rather acid, and, to 
our taste, far inferior to any common plum ; ripened in Summer they would 
most likely have a better flavour. The Sweeny nonpareil, and stone-pippin, 
were in good condition; and some black Hamburgh grapes, grown by Mr. 
Andrews of Vauxhall, had a very good flavour. An unnamed pine-apple, 
grown by Charles Gomond Cooke, Esq. was also very good; it was rather 
above middle size, and conical shaped. Two oranges, imported from 
China were exhibited, the one large and flat, the other small and round, 
and both of a dirty brown colour from long keeping. Some potatoes were 
shown which had grown in the open ground in the neighbourhood of Pen- 
zance, but under what circumstances of culture, locality, or variety, was 
not mentioned, the tubers were oblong, and seemingly mature; they were 
sent by Mr. John Eddison of Penzance, from whom, if he should see this, 
we should be glad of some particulars respecting them; for, though the 
climate of Penzance is much warmer than about London, yet the variety 
may have peculiar properties, which may render it valuable for any cli- 
mate. Some fine heads of Cape broccoli were presented by Mr. James 
Dann, which one gardener present called dwarf Danish, and another Si- 
berian broccoli. The seeds distributed were rampion, and curled, and 
early knob celery. No papers were read. Our much respected president 
was in the chair, and announced that on the anniversary the same 
officers had been re-elected. The dinner of the Society, we understand, 
was but thinly attended, and no exhibition was made of the dessert, as in 
former years. We regret the want of the dessert, as we think the 
sight of that as well calculated to promote a taste for horticulture, as any 
part of the Society’s transactions. 

May 16. The communications read were, on acclimating tender herba- 
ceous plants and shrubs; on the treatment of melons and cucumbers; on 
the treatment of the vine; and on a compost for the pine-ap ple. 

Some black Hamburgh and sweet-water grapes, some strawberries, 
- some ripe figs, and a Ripley queen pine were exhibited and tasted. The 


Horticultural Society and Garden. 343 


secretary observed that the latter was a very distinct sort of pine to that com- 
monly called the Ripley, and indeed it differed little in external appearance 
from the old queen pine Specimens in flower of the following plants 
were exhibited: Yellow-flowered and white-flowered rosa Banksiz; the 
three-leaved China rose, more commonly known by the name of the 
Cherokee rose, Rosa sinica ; Pyrus grandiflora ; Pyrus floribunda; Genista 
decumbens; Spartium scoparium and spinosum; Oncidium pumilum; 
Pancratium illyricum; Cytisus purpureus and supinus; four sorts of 
wall-flower, and various sorts of tulips and ponies; but the most con- 
spicuous object was a specimen of the Carolinea insignis, from the 
stove of Messrs. Loddiges, a fine plant from the Spanish West Indies. 

June 6th. The first paper read was on the cultivation of plants in live 
moss by Mr. Street, gardener at Biel, Haddingtonshire. Mr. S. collects 
plants of sphagnum and other mosses, sometimes paring off a little of 
the surface in which they grow, and mixing it with them. In pots of 
this mixture, Mr. S. finds marsh plants, such as canna, hydrangea, 
and a great many other genera, grow remarkably well; bulbs did not 
succeed very well init, though crocus flowered freely; cuttings, such as those 
of aucuba, and other genera, struck root in it. The advantages of this 
mode of culture are said to be neatness of appearance and no crumbling 
of earth and dirt in moving the pots, watering the plants, or turning out 
the balls to’ examine the roots. A similar practice has been carried to a 
certain extent, by Mr. Sweet, Mr. Shepherd of Liverpool, and especially 
by our much-esteemed correspondent Mr. Archibald. (See p. 255.) 

The next paper was on the different varieties of the tree Peeonia, by 
the Secretary; and the last on the infancy of vegetation, by a foreign 
writer, 

The articles exhibited were, Vanack cabbage, Pzonia albiflora Whitleiji, 
Rosa Boursault, various double Scotch roses, twenty-three varieties 
of Azalea pontica, and above twelve species and varieties of Rhododen- 
dron, by Mr. Lee; eight species of iris; six varieties of Viola tricolor ; 
Drummond’s thornless rose, which has been in flower for a month; 
double scarlet anemones; double garden ranunculuses; the yellow Scotch 
rose, from a plant obtained last year from Paris; Lonicera flava, &c. from the 
garden of the Society; Gloriosa superba, from Sir Charles Hulse; Brassia 
caudata, Quisqualis Indica, Zephyranthes grandiflora, the Sir Abraham 
Hume geranium, and some other geraniums and plants, by different 
individuals. 

The fruits tasted were, a queen pine, some peaches and ncctarines, cher- 
ries and strawberries, and a fruit of Xanthochymus pictorius, from the garden 
of Mrs. Beaumont at Bretton Hall, being the first time the plant has 
ripened its fruit in this country. It had an acid taste, by no means 
agreeable. 

A thrust-hoe was exhibited by Mr. Knight of Clapton; it differs from the 
common Dutch or thrust-hoe in having. 62 
a sharp edge behind as well as before, 
and in having the edge of the fore-part 
of a pointed form (in the way of fig. 62.). “ef 
Mr. Knight has very properly instructed 
and authorized a respectable manufacturer to introduce them for general 
sale. The seeds given away were yellow savoy, and green chard beet. 

The following notice was read by one of the secretaries : 

Sale of Garden Produce. —“The Committee have directed that in futureall 
such fruits and choice esculent vegetables as shall remain at the Garden after 
the supply ofspecimens for examples, and for exhibition at the meetings of the’ 
Society, shall be disposed of to the Fellows of theSociety, or to persons reconi- 
mended by them, in the following manner: — A list of such articles as can be 
disposed of, with moderate prices for the same annexed, shall be sent daily 


344 Horticultural Society and Garden. 


to the Society’s house from the Garden, for the inspection of the Fellows 
of the Society, or persons authorized by them, who shall be at liberty to 
order any of the articles on the list for the next, or next but one suc- 
ceeding day, and which articles shall be sent unto Regent Street by eleven 
o’clock on the day fixed, and shall be forthwith delivered at the house 
in London of the person ordering the same. Payment to be made at the 
time of delivery.” 

It was observed by the Secretary that it was not intended by this 
measure to injure the market-gardeners; but merely to enable members’ 
of the Society, and their friends, to taste fruits and other garden articles 
more correctly named than they generally are in the public market. 

June 20th. «The principal papers read were a report respecting the gar- 
den of the Society ; one on Glycine Sinensis, by Mr. Sabine ; and one on the 
clubbing of cabbages, by Mr. Thomas Blake, gardener to Mrs. Butts, at Ken- 
sington. Among the books presented were a volume of the American Farmer, 
and one of the Memoirs of the Agricultural Society of New York. The flowers 
onthetable consisted of a fine collection of roses, from Mr. Lee; two blossoms 
of Magnolia macrophylla, from the garden of E. Gray, Esq., of Harringay, 
near Highgate; the plant there, and that at the Duke of Devonshire’s, at: 
‘Chiswick, being the only plants near London that have yet flowered. The 
leaves and flowers are much larger than those of any of the other Magno- 
lias ; the flowers white, with a slight degree of sickly odour. A collection 
of ranunculuses, some ponies, Ixora rubra and coccinea, Rosa Greyillea, 
the Champney rose, a variety like R. Noisette, and Lonicera flexuosa, 
from the garden of the Society. Rosa Grevillea is avariety of R. multi- 
flora, and in a single fasciculus of flowers are roses of every shade of purple, 
from white to the darkest tint; it is one of the handsomest of climbing 
roses. Lonicera flexuosa, though often kept in green-houses, seems to be 
as hardy as the common honeysuckle, which it greatly exceeds in fragrance, 
and in abundance of blossoms. ‘These two roses, and this honeysuckle, 
and also Lonicera Japonica, deserve a place in every garden. A fine col- 
lection of pinks was presented by Mr. Hogg of Paddington, and flowers 
of Cactus speciosissimus from Mrs. Byng; Lilium longiflorum, from the 
garden of the Society ; and some azaleas by different individuals. The only 
culinary vegetable on the table was mountain spinage, seven varieties, from 
the garden of the Society. This is the sort of spinage in general use round 
Paris, and deserves, in our opinion, to be more generally cultivated in this 
country as a Summer spinage ; its leaves, which it produces in abundance 
on stems sometimes six feet high, being as succulent in Summer as those of 
common spinage are in Winter. There were 37 sorts of strawberries 
from the garden of the Society tasted, and also a new seedling, raised by 
Mr. Knevett of Turnham Green, from the common pine impregnated with 
Keens’ imperial. We saw it in Mr. K.’s garden some days ago; it is a 
handsome fruit, in general appearance like the pine; hardy, a great bearer, 
and considered high flavoured. Mr. K. intends to bring it out about 
Michaelmas, 1827, and is in the mean time raising as many plants as he can 
for that purpose. 

Horticultural Society's Garden, May 22. Inthe experimental division 
of the ornamental department, we observed a handsome row of green- 
house plants, from 2 to 4 feet high, plunged in the soil, with the pots cover- 
ed, and occupying a small border along a walk. They are chiefly Australa- 
sian plants, and the intention is, probably, to prove their comparative de- 
grees of hardiness; but, at any rate, the effect is exceedingly good, and 
might be adopted and improved upon, in private gardens. A collection of 
single specimens arranged in this way, following each other in natural re- 
lationship, bordering a revolving walk, as in Messrs. Loddiges’ arboretum, 
and named with glazed china tickets, as in Mr. Boursault’s garden in Paris, 


Horticultural Society and Garden. 345 


or Mrs. Beaumont’s conservatory at Bretton Hall, would form an easy and 
agreeable source, for ladies to acquire a practical knowledge of botany. 
There is nothing, indeed, more conducive to this taste, than placing the 
names of plants upon or beside them, in conspicuous, but not obtrusive 
labels or tallies. We regret that this is not done in the arboretum at Kew, and 
we hope it will ultimately be adopted in every department of the Chiswick 
garden. The mere circumstance of seeing and reading these names, by at- 
tracting attention and exciting curiosity, gives rise to a taste for plants; 
it is, therefore, desirable that public bodies should use the means of 
originating and promoting a taste so agreeable, peaceful, and useful. 

We pass over many things of interest, to notice four beautiful epiphytes, 
Calathea veratrifolia, Eulophia gracilis, Oncidium pumilum and flexuo- 
sum ; and two fine aquatics, Pontederia cordata, and Limnocharis Plumerii, in 
flower in the hot-house. The plants are in their usual excellent condition, 
being abundantly supplied with heat and moisture; the paths were literally 
flooded. The Australasian bees have unfortunately died during the last 
Winter. 

In the experimental garden of the fruit department, the principal thing 
worthy of notice is the vigour of the pine plants, of which there are some 
new and apparently distinct varieties from Sierra Leone, selected by Mr. 
George Don, when botanizing in that colony. In one pit, Trapa natans, 
and Scirpus tuberosus, the water chestnut, are planted in cisterns of mud and 
water, with a view to their cultivation as esculents; and the fruit of Passi- 
flora edulis has attained a considerable size on the back wall. The differ- 
ent descriptions of pits erected in this department are well deserving of at- 
tention, and will be particularly noticed on a future occasion. No article 
of garden-culture seems neglected; we observed finochio planted in trenches, 
in the manner of celery, in order to be blanched by earthing up, as prac- 
tised in Italy. 

In the kitchen-garden, celery is already planted out. In the orchard 
the strawberries are in bloom, and in some places beginning to suffer from 
the dry weather. The peaches, and other wall fruit, have set well; partly 
by having been protected by a wooden coping, and partly in consequence 
of the application of canvass netting. In the flower garden, some phloxes, 
ponies, narcissi, Muscari comosum and monstrosum, some tulips, wall- 
flowers, and stocks, and a few border perennials, are the chief articles in 
flower. A number of the pzony blossoms having been fecundated by art, 
are tied up in gauze to exclude bees and other insects. In the orchard 
some strawberries are similarly treated. 

In the arboretum nothing struck us as deserving particular remark, un- 
less it be worth while to express our regret, that the turfis formed of a mix- 
ture of grass seeds in which cock’s foot, Dactylis glomerata, is conspicuous ; 
being a much coarser and rapider growing grass than any other species, it 
is the very worst that can be fixed on for the purpose of alawn. We pre- 
sume it must have been mixed with the other grass seeds inadvertently; but, 
whatever has been the cause of its introduction, it ought be immediately 
rooted out. 

We cannot leave this garden, without paying a tribute of approbation to 
the young men employed in it; their decent appearance, their dress and 
linen, compared with their wages, is at once an index to their morality. 
The number of such young men is nearly forty, and we cannot help think- 
ing that a very important addition to the horticultural establishment would 
be a school, in which, for a small consideration, all who chose might go 
through a regular course of education. We are convinced this would ul- 
timately do more for horticulture than almost all the other plans for its 
progress put together; but in the mean time it need not supersede other 
good plans for the same purpose. 


346 Flower Shows. 


Art. VI. Flower Shows. 


Ir was our intention to have given an account in this Number of the 
principal meetings held by florists in the neighbourhood of London, for the 
exhibition of what are called florists’ flowers; but after having put some 
of our friends to a good deal of trouble, we find, that to give the names 
of all the flowers for which prizes were awarded would occupy more 
space than we could possibly spare. We beg leave, therefore, to apologise 
for the trouble we have given our friends, and especially Mr. Groom, 
Mr. Greig, Mr. Robert Mackay, Mr. Davey, and Mr. Lawrance, near 
London; and Mr. Saul of Lancaster ; and to limit our record to the dates 
of a few of the principal shows or feasts, with the name of the flower which 
obtained the first prize, and its owner. 

The Islington or Canonbury Auricula Show was held on the 18th of April. 
The first prize was taken by Francis Cooper, Esq., for Britannia, and the 
Lancashire Hero, - 

Extract from a communication by Mr. Greig, the Secretary to the 
Islington Florists’ Society. 

“ The Islington Florists’ Society is of comparatively ancient date, and may 
truly be termed the parent Society of all others that have of late been esta- 
blished in the vicinity of the metrepolis. At its first formation, which, I 
believe, was about fifty years ago, the meetings of the Society were held at the 
Barley Mow, an old and respectable public house, situated in the parish of 
Islington, on the side of one of the old pack-horse roads, leading from 
Blackwell Hall, in the city, to the north of England ; and now called Troy. 
Lane. They were afterwards held at the Britannia tavern, where you may, 
I think, still find a copy (framed) of the ancient rules and regulations of 
the Society Some little dispute having occurred at this tavern, the 
Society was in a great degree remodelled, the rules and regulations simpli- 
fied, and its meetings removed to Canonbury tavern, but latterly they 
have been held at the King’s Head tavern, opposite the church. 

“The shows of flowers at this Society consist of auriculas and carnations, 
and the prizes are adjudged under the regulations (of which I hand you a 
copy) to the best flowers, the first prize being a silver cup, of the value of 
five guineas. The Society has always been supported by many amateur 
growers, and, generally speaking, (their enthusiastic fondness for the flowers 
inducing the greatest care in the growth of them,) they have borne away 
the prize from the regular dealer. 

“| feel assured, Sir, that you will lend a willing aid in promoting the 
growth of the finest flowers; and it being a maxim amongst florists, that 
exhibitions of them for prizes create emulation in their production, you, 
I hope, will give me leave to trespass upon your valuable pages, for a small 
additional space, to say, that this feeling so predominates with several mem- 
bers of this Society, as to induce them (through me) to request of you to 
offer this challenge to the florist world. That each member will, on a day 
in July next, to be agreed upon, shew a pan of carnations, consisting of twelve 
blooms, the produce of their own gardens, (and according with the rules 
of the Islington Society,) against the same number of gentlemen from any 
part of the kingdom, for any sum not exceeding 100/. The house for the 
show to be agreed on, and the censors appointed, prior to the time of 
showing. Wishing you every success in your valuable undertaking, 

“ Upper Paradise-house, Islington, “Tam, dear Sir, &c. 
“ May 26th, 1826. “ Jno. Greic.” 


The Windsor Florists’ Show was held on the 19tn of April, and the first 
prize taken by Mr. Brown, for Barlow’s king. 


Flower Shows. 347 


The Hammersmith Auricula Show was held April the 19th. 'The first prize 
was taken by Mr. Willmore for Metcalf’s Hero. 

Chelsea Auricula Show was held on the 20th of April. The first prize 
was taken by Mr. Cheese of Milbank for Grimes’s Privateer. 

The Dulwich Auricula Show was held April 24th. The first prize was 
taken by Mr. Goldham, for Grimes’s Privateer. : 

The Newington Auricula Show was held on April the 26th. The first 
prize was taken by Mr. Goldham, for Grimes’s Privateer. 

The Lancaster Auricula Show was held on the 26th April. The first 
prize was taken by William Leighton, Esquire, for Booth’s Freedom. At 
the flower-shows here, green-house and hardy plants, fruits, and culinary 
vegetables, are exhibited ; the premium for the best dish of potatoes was 
awarded to I.ady Houghton, and for the best pine-apple to Mrs. Parker. 

Tulips are not generally gathered and shown in competition in the 
neighbourhood of London, though they are in Lancashire, and other parts 
of the country, and have been occasionally so near the metropolis. The 
practice of florists with respect to this flower, is to appoint particular days 
to visit celebrated coilections. A number of connoisseurs then assemble, 
compare, criticise, exchange, and purchase, and afterwards dine together, &c. 

Among the principal Tulip-beds in the Neighbourhood of London are the 
following; Mr. Groom’s at Walworth, 150 fect long, and 4 broad; Mr. 
Strong’s, Brook-Green; Mr. Lawrence’s, Hampton; Mr. Weltjie’s, Ham- 
mersmith; Mr. Austin’s, Upper Clapton; Mr. Cheese’s, Milbank; Mr. 
Davey’s, King’s Road; Messrs. Goldham’s, Greig’s, Edie’s, Brookes’s, Mort- 
lock’s, Franklin’s and Mrs. Gable’s, Islington; Mr. Brown’s, Slough; Mr. 
Wheatman’s, Windsor; Mr. Bartlet’s and Mr. Pyle’s, Bethnal Green ; 
Mr. Hoggart’s, Lower Tooting; Mr. Smith and Mr. Jeffery’s, Rotherhithe ; 
and our correspondent, Mr. Burnard’s, at Holloway. There are, doubt- 
less, a number of others of which we have not been informed. With re- 
gard to the order in which we have enumerated those above, it has little 
or no relation to their merits; a few of them we have seen; the other 
names we have heard of, and the whole we have put down as they occurred 
to our recollection. 

Lawrence's Tulip-bed at Hampton, we viewed on the.11th of May. The 
collection here is said to be one of the most select in the neighbourhood of 
London. This was a feast-day, and we found a number of connoisseurs, 
amateurs, and men of leisure, among the last, the Duke of Clarence, in- 
specting and admiring them. Louis XVI. and General Washington had 
“ come the finest,” as the phrase is, of the old flowers. On the 15th we 
again saw the bed, and Polyphemus, the rarest and most valuable tulip in 
the bed, was then in perfection. It is a bizard, was broken by Mr. Lawrence, 
and four bulbs were sold a few years ago for 50 guineas. 

Mr. Goldham’s bed, Mr. Greig’s, and Mr. Burnard’s, we viewed on the 
20th, and Mr. Davey’s on the 23d of May; Mr. Goldham had just been 
offered 100/. for Louis XVI.; this gentleman has raised a number of good 
carnations, 

The Lancaster Tulip Show was held May 22. The first prize was taken 
by Miss Dalton, for a black Baguétte, and the second by the same lady, for 
Dolittle. The finest geranium was presented by Mrs. Crossfield ; the finest 
green-house plant, Elichrysum filiforme, by Mr. Kerr; the finest herbaceous 
plant, Iris susiana, by Mr. Conolly, and the finest head of brocoli by Mr. 
Hargreaves. Weregret we cannot insert the elaborate account of this show 
sent us by our valued correspondent, Mr. Saul; by which it appears, that 
58 prizes were given away to about 25 different individuals, on the above 
day ; a proof how generally the taste for flowers and for gardening exists 
in Lancaster. 


Vor. 1. No 3. BB 


348 Covent Garden Market. 


Art. VII. Covent Garden Market. 


April 4th. An abundant supply of broccoli from 1s. to 3s.per dish ; cucum- 
bers from 4s. to 5s. per brace; French-beans from 3s. to 4s. per hundred; 
onions 7s. per bushel ; asparagus, 8s. and 10s. per hundred; sea-cale 6s. per 
hundred ; grapes from 24s. to 30s. per lb.; strawberries 2s. per oz.; table 
apples 24s. per bushel; kitchen ditto from 10s. to 15s. A plentiful supply 
of Spring flowers and common evergreens, with some forced rhododen- 
drons, roses, pinks, &c. 

April 18th. An abundant supply of all the vegetables common at 
this season of the year. Broccoli from 1s. to 2s. per bundle; young cab- 
bages 2s. to 3s. per dozen; asparagus 3s. 6d. to 7s. per hundred; young 
potatoes from 2s. 6d. to 4s. per lb.; cucumbers 5s. to 6s. per brace; 
grapes 20s. to 24s. per lb.; strawberries 1s. 6d. per oz. There were still a 
few pears and apples for sale; of the former we observed, the Colmar, 
St. Germain, Bonchretien, and Double Fleurs, of the latter the French 
crab, stone-pippin, nonpareil, &c. Great profusion of pinks, tulips, 
hyacinthus, narcissus and other flowers, forced and unforced. 

May 2. Abundance of tart gooseberries evidently much injured by the 
late frosts; they sold at the rate of 1s. per pottle; young cabbages from 
ls. 9d. to 2s. per dozen; asparagus from 4s. 6d. to 7s. per hundred ; 
young potatoes 1s. 6d. to 2s. per Ib.; cucumbers from 2s. to 3s. per brace ; 
strawberries 1s. 6d per 0z.; grapes from 14s. to 18s. per lb. 

May \6th. A good supply of forced and unforced vegetables in the 
market, and likewise of forced fruits ; young potatoes 1s. 6d. per lb.; cab- 
bages 1s. 9d. per dozen; asparagus 4s. 6d. to 5s. 6d. per hundred; broccoli, 
which is getting scarce, from 2s. to 4s. 6d.; tart gooseberries 2s. 8d. per 
gallon; cucumbers from 1s. 6d. to 2s. per brace; young peas 30s. per quart; 
grapes 12s. per lb.; strawberries 1s. 6d. per oz.; cherries from 12s. to 16s. 
per Ib. Abundance of flowers and flowering shrubs. 

June 3. Potatoes from 3s. to 7s. per cwt, which is about from 1s. 10d. 
to 3s. 9d. per Winchester bushel; cabbages from 43d. to 1s.; and cauli- 
flowers from 4s. to 16s. per dozen heads; horse-radish from 2s. to 4s. ; 
broccoli from 8d. to 2s.; asparagus from 1s. to 8s.; and celery from 10d. to 
1s. 6d. per bundle; young carrots from 5s. to 12s.; turnips from 3s. to 6s.; 
coleworts, or greens, unmarketable ; onions from 9d. to 2s.; leeks from 10d. 
to 1s. 4d. per dozen bunches; radishes from 3d. to 6d. per dozen hands ; 
coss lettuces from 6d. to 1s. per score; green gooseberries from 2s. to 4s. 6d. ; 
green currants from 5s. to 7s.; spinage from 6d. to 10d. per half sieve, 
about one-third of a bushel; sound sweet oranges from 5s. to 14s.; lemons 
from 5s. to 12s. per 100; or, the former from 3/. to 4/. 10s.; the latter 
from 5/. to 4/. per chest of two boxes; Spanish chesnuts from 8s. to 12s.; 
French chesnuts from 5s. to 10s.; Spanish hazel-nuts from 5s. to 8s. ; 
French walnuts from 4s. to 10s. per peck; new potatoes from 6d. to 1s. 6d.; 
cherries from 12s. to 18s. per lb.; forced strawberries from 6d. to 9d. per 
thumb, about an ounce ; natural strawberries from 5s. to 6s. per quart ; 
green peas from 3s. 6d. to 5s. per peck; French beans from 3s. to 4s. per 
100. — Prices of foreign fruit, old potatoes (these next to nominal), 
asparagus, and horse-radish, stationary; those of almost every thing else 
from 20 to 40 per cent. lower than on this day se’nnight. Supply 
abundant, and trade more brisk than could have been reasonably ex- 
pected. Silkworms 4d. to 1s. per dozen, according to their size; garden 
snails 1s. per dozen; gold-fish 5s. to 7s. per brace; English frogs 1d. each; 
snakes 4d. each; leeches 10s. to 20s. per hundred. 


Calls at the Nurseries. 349 


Arv. VIII. Calls at the London Nurseries, and other Suburban 
Gardens. 


Sion-House, April 10th. ‘This place, so long neglected or mismanaged, 
is at last likely to be restored to its characteristic dignity and beauty. 
Mr. Forrest, who so highly distinguished himself in laying out the grounds 
at Eaton-Hall, having just been engaged as head manager here. There are 
few old places where there is so much to do as at Sion, but there are few 
also where so much effect, may be produced by judicious doings. The 
kitchen-garden requires to be entirely renovated, including even the soil 
of the borders, the walls, the walks, and the hot-houses. The pleasure- 
ground, so rich in exotics, and so incumbered and injured by the com- 
monest trees and shrubs, requires to have the latter entirely removed, to 
give room and effect to the former; and to render this scenery complete, 
a great number of new exotics, introduced since Sion was planted, now 
upwards of half a century ago, require to be added. There are few 
gardeners more competent to effect all this than Mr. Forrest, and if he 
obtain a reasonable share of liberty, and is not limited in expence, we may 
look forward to something which will restore this fine old place to its 
ancient celebrity. 

Bayswater Garden, Comte de Vandes, April 12th. A magnificent spe- 
cimen of Glycine sinensis is in flower in the green-house; each raceme is 
as large as a bunch of grapes, of a delicate pale purple at the shoulders 
of the bunch, where the blossom is fully expanded, and of a dark purple 
at the pendant extremities, where the flowers are not yet opened. 
Numerous species of acacias are in full bloom, and also polygalas, cor- 
reas, heaths, brachysema, cytisus, boronia, &c. Mr. Campbell has been 
very successful in blooming hyacinths, of sorts that for upwards of 
seven years have been grown in this garden; a large bed of blues, reds, 
and double whites are now in perfection, and to all appearance as strong 
as if the bulbs had been newly imported. The borders here are remark- 
ably well stocked with herbaceous plants and standard roses; among the 
latter are some of the most magnificent specimens in the neighbourhood 
of London. The whole is kept in excellent order; and this garden, for 
many years celebrated for its beautiful collection, was never better. worth 
seeing than it isat present. Perhaps more new plants have been published 
in botanical works as having first flowered here, than in any private garden 

round London. 

' Walworth Florists’ Garden, Mr. Groom, April 17th. This establishment 
is wholly devoted to the culture of florists’ flowers, and though the depart- 
ment of floriculture is not now so fashionable as it was in the time of Mr. 
Madocks, the founder of this garden, and the author of the Florists’ 
Directory, it is still a good deal encouraged. The purchasers of florists’ 
flowers are quite a different class of persons from the purchasers of rare 
and curious species, or what, for the sake of distinction, we may call 
botanists’ plants. They are chiefly tradesmen, and, in part, even operative 
manufacturers and mechanics. All these form a distinct class of fiower- 
fanciers, and are as much occupied by the artificial properties and high- 
sounding names of auriculas, tulips, and carnations, as botanists are with 
the generic and specific distinctions of science. The grand object of the 
flower-fancier is to gain a prize at some of the flower-shows which are held 
in different places about London, at the period when auriculas, tulips, 
and carnations are in bloom. The four principal shows are held at Isling- 
ton, Dulwich, Hammersmith, and Chelsea, and generally on or about the 
end of April for auriculas, the end of May for tulips, and the end of 
July for carnations. We intend in future to give short notices of these 
shows, in the hope of extending this department among gentlemen’s 
gardeners, by whom, we think, florists’ flowers are at present too much 
BE 2 


350 Calls at the Nurseries. 


neglected. For example, at the present time, what parterre in any 
country residence can display 100 sorts of early dwarf tulips, all in bloom 
together, producing an effect, that for brilliance of colour cannot be 
surpassed in the vegetable kingdom? How few gentlemen’s seats can boast 
a fine stage of auriculas, or carnations; the last flower highly desirable, 
as combining both beauty and fragance. ‘The culture of bulbs in general, 
is at present too much neglécted by country gardeners, probably because 
at the season when they come into bloom, families are generally in their 
metropolitan residences. 

Mr. Groom is an enthusiastic florist, and no man is more liberal in ex- 
plaining the canons of floral criticism, and even the secrets of the art, to 
the uninitiated. The first thing he pointed out in walking round with us, 
was his collection of auriculas in pots in a common hot-bed frame; Mr. 
G. made out a list of above thirty fine sorts which had flowered this 
season in greater vigour than usual. We regret want of room prevents 
us from printing the names. ‘ 

There is here a large supply of the night-smelling stock, which, Mr. 
Groom says, begins to diffuse its odour at six o’clock in the evening and 
leaves off at six in the morning, whether in the open air, under glass, or 
in aroom. Mr.G. has in vain tried to render it odoriferous in the day- 
time, by placing it in a humid atmosphere, and also in a darkened place. 
A fine new variety of Viola tricolor raised by Mr. Groom attracted our 
attention; the flower is not so large as some varieties, but is of a darker 
purple velvet than any of them. Many plants of Pyrus spectabilis, in 
pots in full bloom, are very handsome; and in the green-houses are some 
good varieties of camellia and erica, and a considerable stock of gerania. 

The next grand feature, at present in this garden, is, the collection of 
early dwarf tulips, single and double. Of the former Mr. G. has upwards 
of 150 sorts, and 100 at least are now fully expanded, and very brilliant. 

The double tulips are rather later than the single ones; of thirty sorts - 
which are here, about a dozen were fully expanded, including Tournesol 
panachée and Marriage de ma fille, which are two of the largest and 
most showy flowers. 

There is an immense stock of late tulips of very vigorous growth, 
but we shall return to see them when they are in bloom. There isa 
good collection of crown imperials; and the double red, double yellow, 
crown upon crown, and gold striped, were in great vigour. Various very 
curious sorts of fritillary were in flower, but less vigorous in growth than 
usual, Mr. G. has left off growing hyacinths, which, he allows, can be 
better grown by the Dutch. He frequently visits Holland, and has even 
gone so far as to import soil from the florists’ gardens there, for the pur- 
pose of trying experiments. 4 

Among the mis- 
cellanea of the 
garden, we may 
notice a formid- 
able fence ( fig. - 
63.), which Mr. 
Groom has made 
by plashing a 
tall regularly cut 
hedge en masse, 
so as to make 
it hang over a 
deep and wide 
ditch at nearly a 
right angle. The 
fallen part of the 
hedge is in a 


65 


a 


Calls at the' Nurseries. 351 


growing state, as well as the stumps. Various fruit trees have been deprived 
of their outer bark, headed down, ringed, and treated with Mr. F orsyth’s 
composition, all with the usual success. There is a Mammoth apple- 
tree, which produces very large fruit, and some others, on which he has 
grafted all the different sorts he could procure. The American blight 
has cankered most of the apple-trees, but has done very little injury 
to the pears, though intermixed with them, a proof, as our corre- 
spondent Rusticus observes, ( p.153.) that the pear will thrive in a worse soil 
than the apple. Mr.-G. unties his espalier trees in winter, when he prunes 
them, and leaves their branches dangling about loose till the blossom is 
set. Their being loose, he considers as promoting the last object, by 
allowing them to be shaken by the wind. A tank and pump have been 
recently formed for collecting and containing the drainings of the dung and 
compost ground, with which the ranunculus beds are watered. A great 
breadth of ground is covered with the last named flower and with the 
anemone, both just emerging from the soil. Mr.G. always plants these 
flowers in spring, but the tulips and most others in October and Novem- 
ber. The latter and hyacinths are quite hardy, but anemones, ranun- 
culuses, and most sorts of polyanthus narcissus require to be covered with 
rotten tan, or litter, to protect them from the frost. 

May 19th. 'The single tulips are now in full bloom, and this day hap- 
pening to be fine, Mr. Groom’s bed of a 130 feet long and 4 feet broad 
presented by far the most magnificent spectacle of the kind we ever saw. 
We are persuaded that very few of the wealthy amateurs of gardening 
have seen such a sight, otherwise the culture of tulips would be more 
general. This bed consists of upwards of 200 sorts, in seven rows 
viewed lengthways, and in rows across at six inches apart ; for the names 
we must refer to Mr. Groom’s printed catalogue, not having room to 
insert the list of select sorts obligingly furnished us by him. 

Pantheon, Regent’s Park, April 27. This immense building, correspond- 
ing in figure with that of the same name in Rome, is preparing for exhibiting 
Mr. Hornor’s Panorama of London, which of itself is an astonishing under- 
taking ; but coupled as it will be with this immense building, and the objects 
and contrivances within and around it, will surpass all that has hitherto 
been done in panoramic exhibition in this or any country. The ground 
around the edifice is now being planted under the direction of Mr. Mackay, 
of Clapton, and it affords even in its present incomplete state, a striking 
example of what may be done by selection of large plants, and especially of 
ever-greens. ‘There are variegated hollies here 15 feet high, and rhododen- 
drons nearly as many feet in diameter, and laurels, yews, box, &c. pro- 
portionately large. ‘They have been selected from all the nurseries from 
within 20 and 30 miles of London, and from the American ground at 
Wanstead-house, which supplied the immense rhododendrons mentioned, of 
more than 30 years’ growth. The plants were carefully taken up with 
balls, and put in baskets of suitable size, and in that state conveyed to the 
pit in which they were planted. In some cases the plants were planted 
with the basket entire, to admit, if need should require, of lifting them in 
the course of the summer to fill up blanks from death, or to facilitate alter- 
ations; in others the sides of the baskets were cut away and the bottom left ; 
and from the smaller plants the baskets were wholly removed. Every tree 
or shrub planted was set in puddle, or fixed by water. (Encycl. of Gard. 
§ 2096, 2097), and properly staked. The kinds were planted in masses, espe- 
cially the shrubs; and the deciduous trees, which are but few in proportion 
to the evergreens, are planted from-3 & 4 to a dozen in a hole, as sug- 
gested by Mr. Price, and adopted by Mr. Repton, Mr. D. Stewart, and others. 
This at once produces an effect different from that of a young plantation, 
and gives something of the idea of stools of coppicewood. It would be 


BB 3 


352 Calls at the Nurseries. 


premature to speak of the design of these plantations, because it is not yet 
fully developed; but we cannot withhold our warmest approbation of 
the liberality and taste displayed by Mr. Hornor m the choice of his 
plants, and the extraordinary expedients and care employed by Mr. Mackay 
and his superintendant Mr. Kerr, in taking them up and removing them ; 
then in planting them, securing them, and almost daily watering them. 

Kew Gardens, May 22. The new entrance which we noticed in our last 
(p. 223.) has been planted in a very tasteful manner, under the direction of 
Mr. Begbie, who has here evinced a just relish for the picturesque disposition 
of objects. This taste is not common either amongst cultivators or botanists; 
the studies of both leading to the consideration of objects individually, rather 
than collectively, or with regard to effect of light and shade, exposure and 
concealment, &c. A dozen of trees or shrubs, planted on a lawn, show at 
once whether the planter is a cultivator or a painter. The botanical portion 
of the pleasure-ground is now ina state of great beauty, and affords a good 
specimen of what may be effected, on a few acres of level ground, by trees 
and shrubs, smooth turf, and gravel walks, without either water, archi- 
tectural objects, or distant view. i ; 

The Systematic Garden is, in general, in a thriving state, and in good 
order. It is to be regretted that these valuable qualities are greatly les- 
sened in effect by the obvious want of plan and arrangement, and the dis- 
position of the hot-houses and walks. The former stand like cattle in a 
market-place, and the latter are unstudied lines of communication, created 
by the necessities of the place, entering behind, as in the Horticultural So- 
ciety’s garden, so that the principal object in the first view is the back 
sheds; which sheds meet the eye in walking through the garden, fully as 
often as the glass fronts, to which they are subservient. Taking a view of 
our public gardens, and national works in general, plan or method seems a 
less conspicuous quality than profusion in the details; a circumstance 
which probably arises from our wealth ; method being most resorted to by 
those who have least to methodise. 

The late frosts had injured several plants here, as at other places; but 
Araucaria imbricata is untouched, and Photinia glabra promises to be an 
addition to our hardy evergreens. Nothing struck us as very remarkable 
among the herbaceous plants ; in the green-house the following rare species 
were pointed out to us ; Anthocercis littorea, viscosa, and albicans, Pimelea 
decussata, Prostanthera violacea, Hibbertia nova sp., Patersonia sp., Beau- 
fortia nova sp., Polygala nova sp., Gompholobium sp. 

A plant of Cyclopia genistoidea had been planted out in front of a stove 
about a year ago, and protected during winter with a mat; it has grown 
nearly ten feet high, and is now splendidly in flower. 

In the palm-house, some of the plants are suffering for want of room, and 
one cannot help regretting that a suitable situation is not formed for this 
noble order of plants. ‘There is abundant space in the pleasure-ground 
here for a few acres of glass roof, which, as we have elsewhere observed, 
(Eneye. of Gard. § 6179.) might be supported by iron columns, at any height 
from the ground, heated by steam, and watered by perforated pipes in Lod- 
diges’ manner ; the interior might be laid out in walks, turf, water, and seats, 
decorated with sculpture, and enlivened by foreign birds. There might be 
several climates, so as to include the whole of the plants at present kept 
under glass. In the present day, when such immense sums are laid out on 
public improvements, enough might be spared to cover ten acres in this 
way, and surely the effect produced would be worth the expence. 

In one of the hot-houses, Menyanthes indica, and Nymphzea ccerulea, 
are profusely in bloom, and Pontederia crassipes, a rare plant, from Guiana, 
and Cyperus elegans, a new species, from Trinidad, are growing freely ; the 
former might soon be multiplied to any extent. The plants in this hot- 
house are in excellent order. 


Domestic Economy. 353 


On the kitchen garden, we have little to remark; but cannot help ap- 
proving of the plan adopted here, of not growing any crop whatever on 
the fruit tree borders. ‘They are not even dug, but every weed cut up as 
it appears, and a surface dressing of rotten dung occasionally applied to 
supply nourishment, retain moisture, and prevent the surface from be- 
coming indurated. This practice deserves imitation. 

In the culinary hot-houses, things look as well as when we last reported. 


ArT. IX. Architecture. 


Architectural Improvement. We invite artists of leisure and taste to 
furnish us with sketches, accompanied by a word or two of description, of 
such novelties in their art as are applicable to the country. Plans and 
elevations of cottages, entrance-lodges, with the dimensions of the rooms ; 
different descriptions of walls for fences and gardens ; gateways, and gates, 
fences, bridges, and architectural chimney-tops, will be very acceptable, 
Our grand object is to improve the forms and arrangement of the commonest 
things, and introduce taste into every day objects. The lodges now erecting 
in Hyde Park, from the designs of W. D. Burton, are good examples in 
many respects, and particularly in that of being handsome in every front ; 
and having the kitchen-yard sunk so as not to be in the slightest degree 
offensive. There is not one of these lodges that might not, at a very short 
distance, pass for an ornamental building in a pleasure-ground. The pre- 
vailing error in almost every description of building erected in the suburbs 
of London is, that on the side of the building which is considered as front, 
such expence and taste as can be afforded is exclusively displayed, while 
the three other sides are completely neglected, both in regard to design, 
and the material employed. But wherever a house is in any degree de- 
tached, what are called the sides and back are seen just as much, and as 
frequently as the front; at least, the front and one side are always seen to- 
gether. The master art, in rural architecture, is to make all the sides of 
a house beautiful, and to avoid as much as possible the appearance of what 
are called backsides, which are disagreeable seen at a distance, and near at 
hand display the slovenliness and disorder of kitchen and other domestic 
appendages. Subjected to judicious design, they would render the back of 
every house as handsome as the front. In natural objects there is no 
backside ; every part is beautiful after its kind. Few suburban builders, 
however, are in the habit of considering the effect of objects in perspective, 
and a large, or small country house, is too often with them merely a slice 
from a smaller or larger row of houses from a London street. 


— 


. Art. X. Domestic Economy. 

The following valuable receipts have been procured for us by Mr. John 
Anderson, F.H.S., Gardener to the Harl of Essex at Cassiobury, from 
an eminent French cook, lately in the Harl’s service. 


Tomata Sauce for Cold Meat. Boil tomatas when ripe, rub them 
through a tammy cloth, to every quart of pulp add £ ounce of garlic and 
1 ounce of shallots, salt to taste, boil 4 hour, strain out the garlic; add to 
every quart, half a pint of common vinegar, and a wine glass full of Chili 
do.; let it stand a day or two before corking. 

Potted Tomatas. Reduce your tomatas over the fire, till they are quite 
thick, stirring all the time to keep them from burning ; rub them through 
a tammy, put them again into your stew-pan, with an equal quantity of glaze, 

BB 4 


354 Cottage Economy. 


and reduce again over a sharp fire, till you think the whole will be quite 
firm wnen cold (or like glaze); put them into a white earthen pot ; when 
cold, cover them with writing-paper dipped in brandy; pour over some 
warm hog’s lard, and cover all over with a bladder tied quite tight ; a small 
piece added to a little gravy or melted butter will make an excellent sauce 
for cutlets or chops. 

- Tomatas quite plain. Reduce as before, only be more careful in evapor- 
ating the water from them, rub them through a tammy, put them when cold 
into fruit bottles ; they must be corked very tight, and tied down; put the 
bottles nearly up to the cork into cold water, over a gentle fire, till they 
boil, then set them on one side till cold, take them out and dip the cork in 
good cement of bees-wax, rosin, &c. ; 

This may be used in making sauce for cold meat, or as above, by adding 
strong gravy. It is intended, of course, to save the glaze. 

Tomatas with Gravy. This is simply stewing your tomatas in a little good 
gravy, till quite tender, keeping them whole, drain them on a sieve, dish 
them up, and pour a little half glaze, and a tea-spoonful of vinegar mixed 
with it, quite hot, over them 

Tomatas may likewise be put into vinegar as a pickle. 

Towit of Tomatas. Take a pint of the tomatas, add a pound of fine 
sugar, reduce it in the same way as a jam, add the juice of a lemon; this 
makes a very good towit. 

Tomatas as dried Fruit. The pulp may be reduced; say a pint with a 

ound of fine sugar, till quite stiff; pour it on your tin; it must be dried 
i a stove ; when nearly dry, cut it into what shape you please, it does for 
ornament in the dessert. 


Art. XI. Cottage Economy. 


Unoer this head we mean to include such notices as we consider will be 
useful to the lowest classes of housekeepers, and to the cultivators of 
cottage gardens. We invite the gardeners of country gentlemen to send 
us hints for this department, and to contribute, as far as opportunity and 
the consent of their employers permits, to the increase of the comforts 
and ornaments of their cottage gardens in the neighbourhood, by distribut- 
ing such seeds and plants as they know are suitable. We also invite our 
female readers to contribute hints for the in-door economy of cottagers. 
We particularly wish to be able to furnish some improved plans and ele- 
vations of cottages, for which, especially in Scotland and Ireland, there is 
the greatest necessity. We invite young architects to turn their atten- 
tion to the subject, and send us something at once commodious and 
handsome; something better than those square two-celled boxes, which 
are often set down as lodges; or the miserable sheds that are some- 
times fitted up as gardeners’ dwellings. In the present exhibition of 
architectural drawings in Somerset-house there are abundance of palaces 

_and villas, but not a single labourer’s cottage ; plenty of impracticable and 
extravagant ideas, but a great want of “common objects, improved by 
genius, art, and taste.” 

It has been suggested to us, that pastors of congregations might mate- 
rially assist us in this part of our labours; we earnestly invite clergymen 
of every denomination to do so, both among their flocks, and by sending 
us such hints as may suggest themselves; and not the least useful will be 
“hints for the moral conduct of cottagers.” Want of room prevents us 
from saying more at present. 


Education of Gardeners. 355 


Art. XII. Hints for Experiments. 


Walls of Compressed Earth. In Mr. Gibbs’s nursery, Brompton, the 
walls of a small house or cottage are built of blocks of compressed loam, 
about three times the size of common bricks, and laid in thin clayey mud, 
as mortar. This building was erected under the direction of Monsieur 
Cointereaux, a French architect, and the patentee in that country of the 
invention. M.C. was brought over, and the building erected, at the 
expence of the Board of Agriculture. For particular purposes, such as 
cottages, sheds, cottage-garden walls, &c., this mode of building will be 
tuund to succeed perfectly; but unless a considerable extent was to be 
erected, the trouble and expence of teaching labourers to execute it, 
would, probably, be greater than the profit. Walls of this sort, however, 
placed upon brick or stone foundations, and well protected by project- 
ing roofs or copings, will, doubtless, endure a great length of time; 
and as cottage walls, being greater non-conductors than brick or stone, 
they will be found warmer in winter, and cooler in summer. Were a 
great extent of this sort of walling to be done, instead of the clumsy mode 
of forming the blocks, by raising and lowering a weight, in the way piles 
are driven, a machine might be easily contrived, by an arrangement of 
levers, like Ruthven’s printing-press ; or with Bramah’s press, as recently 
improved, so as to compress tlie earth-bricks to any extent, and much 
faster, and' with much less trouble, than by the French method. We 
noticed this mode of building in our Encyclopedia of Agriculture (§. 2849.), 
but were not then so impressed with the perfection to which it may attain, 
or the uses to which it may be applied, as we have been since examining 
the specimen at Brompton, and conversing with -Mr. Gibbs. By the use 
of Bramah’s press, which will squeeze a deal board to the thickness of 
drawing-paper in half a minute, the loam blocks may be rendered as hard 
as ordinary free-stone, and, probably, coping-stones might be formed of 
the same material, and rendered water-proof by dipping in gas liquor, or 
washing over with sand and pitch, thin Roman cement, or by some other 
simple process. We recommend the subject to proprietors about to build 
any extent of walls or cottages, and to emigrants. 

Heating Hothouses by Gas. We should be glad if such of our readers 
as have an opportunity, would make some experiments, with a view to 
ascertaining how far the temperature of a greenhouse might be kept up 
by the consumption of a jet or jets of gas, under a cover of earthenware 
or iron, placed within the house; we know of no objection to it but the 
expence, and, probably, that might not be an objection, when the first 
cost of furnaces and flues, their repair, fuel, attendance, &c., are taken into 
consideration. 


Art. XIII. Education of Gardeners. 


Our last notice on this subject hinted at the absolute necessity of every 
young man, who wished to rank above a common country labourer, “ work- 
ing out” his own intellectual education; and at present we shall only add, 
that every new occurrence among the operative classes of society, every 
new Mechanic’s Institution, and there is hardly a week passes that thereis not 
one established in some part of London, or of the country (See The Ailas 
Sunday Newspaper for June 11.), renders this necessity the more imperious. 
While all other orders of the laborious class of society are raising them- 
selves, let it not be said, as a valued correspondent observes, that gardeners 
alone remain stationary. But our present purpose is to hint at the modes 


356 Queries and Answers. 


‘by which gardeners who are too old, or disinclined to, or incapable of 
much intellectual improvement, may benefit themselves ; and these modes 
are two—by emigration, or by change of profession. : 

A healthy sober man can hardly fail of ultimately rendering himself inde- 
pendent, by emigrating to America, or Australasia, and engaging himself as a 
country labourer of all work ; or better as a gardener. Van Dieman’s island 
we consider the very best country to emigrate to in point of climate, it being 
as nearly as possible that of England. The country is already almost entirely 
occupied by Britons cultivating their own property. ‘The price of labour 
will be high there for a long period, and a frugal day-labourer there might 
soon save as much as would enable him to make a small purchase. 
This he might improve and sell, and purchase again, and improve, &c. 
In North America the price of labour is equally high, but the Winters are 
long and severe, and the climate of some parts, as Carolina, unhealthy. 
New York is the most desirable city to emigrate, to in the first instance. 
(See Kingdom on Emigration.) Whoever intends to emigrate would find 
it greatly to his advantage to acquire some knowledge of carpentry, and 
common country masonry, and, in short, as many of the architectural arts as 
he could. Building with compressed earth in Cointereaux’s manner, or en 
pisé, particularly merits attention. (£. of G.§ 28. 49. and G. Mag. p.557.) 

The wages of a journeyman gardener will always be comparatively low 
for various reasons ; but any gardener may become a tolerable bricklayer, 
field mason, hedge carpenter, or painter and glazier, in a month. He 
may not, perhaps, be able to undertake gauged arches, carved work, or 
graining; but he may become a sufficiently good workman to obtain nearly 
treble the wages of a journeyman gardener. Nothing can be more readily 
acquired than bricklaying, painting, and glazing ;/and while gardeners in - 
the nurseries about London are getting 2s. and 2s. éd. per day, journey- 
‘men in these trades are paid 5s.6d. and 6s. Other occupations 
which a gardener may acquire will readily occur; but we do not recom- 
mend this mode; we would rather see emigration adopted; but should 
greatly prefer continuing in the original profession, and improving in it 
to the utmost. For this purpose, we conclude with three hints to young 
gardeners, —have no pleasures,—lose no time, —and concentrate your 
attention to whatever you take in hand. 


ArT. XIV. Queries and Answers. 


Maclura aurantiaca of Nuttall, (fig. 64.) Dicecia Tetrandria, Lin. ; and 
Urticee, Juss. 


This interesting tree, of which there are se- 
veral species, was first introduced to the gar- 
dens at St.Louis, on the Mississippi, from a 
village of the Osage Indians. From thence it 
was carried to the nursery of Mr. M‘Mahon 
of Philadelphia, and afterwards, about 1818,seeds 
were sent to Lord Bagot in England by M. 
Correa de Serra, The trees at Philadelphia have 
reached their full size and bear the Winters 
there without injury. The tree in Lord 
Bagot’s conservatory is upwards of six feet 
high ; but it has not yet flowered. Lord Bagot 
presented one to A. B. Lambert, Esq., which 
Is now growing at Boyton in the open air. 
There is little doubt of its being as hardy as the 
common mulberry. 


Queries and Answers. 357 


* In its native wilds, the Maclura is conspicuous by showy fruit, in size ~ 
and external appearance resembling the largest oranges. The leaves are of 
an oval form, with an undivided margin, and the upper surface of a smooth 
shining green; they are five or six inches long, and from two to three 
wide. The wood is of a yellowish colour, uncommonly fine and elastic, 
affording the material most used for bows by all the savages from the Mis- 
sissippi to the Rocky Mountains. How far towards the north its use ex- 
tends we have not been informed, but we have often seen it among the 
lower tribes of the Missouri, who procure it in trade from the Osages, and 
the Pawnees of Red River. The bark, fruit, &c. when wounded, discharges 
a copious milky juice, which soon dries on exposure, and is insoluble in 
water, containing, probably, like the milky juices of many of the urticez,a 
large intermixture of caoutchouc or gum elastic. 

The fruit consists of radiating, somewhat woody fibres, terminating in a 
tuberculated and slightly papillose surface. In this fibrous mass are dissemi- 
nated the seeds, which are nearly as large as those of a quince. The tree 
rises to the height of twenty-five or thirty feet, dividing near the ground 
into a number of long, slender, and flexuose branches. It inhabits deep and 
fertile soils in vallies. The Arkansa appears to be the northern limit of the 
range of the Maclura, and neither on that river, nor on the Canadian, 
does the tree, or the fruit, attain so considerable a size as in warmer lati- 
tudes. On many specimens of the fruit examined by Major Long, at the 
time of his visit to Red River, in 1817, several were found measuring five 
and a half inches in diameter.” (James’s Expedition to the Rocky Mountains.) 

The following letter from Mr. Nuttall to A. B. Lambert, Esq., dated Li- 
verpool, April 12, 1824, gives additional information respecting this tree. 
“T have herewith sent you the drawings of the Maclura, and have but little 
to add concerning it besides what is already before the public. I have, how- 
ever, since that publication seen the male flowers with which I had been 
unacquainted. ‘They are produced in partly sessile clusters, probaby twelve 
or more together in a very short raceme, and consist each of a four-parted 
greenish calyx, including three, but more commonly four stamens, about the 
length of,,or a little exceeding, the calyx. 

The trees often attain the height of sixty feet or upwards, having 
spreading branches, thickly clothed with a foliage of the most vivid and 
shining green. The flowers are very inconspicuous and nearly green, or 
with a slight tinge of yellow. The bark and fruit, on incision, gives out a 
milky sap; that of the fruit is aromatic, but not agreeable to the taste. 
Although found spontaneous and abundant on the immediate borders of 
Red River, I cannot learn that any individual has ever seen or tasted its 
ripe fruit. These, according to the report of Major Long, (See his Narra- 
tive, vol. ii.p.158.)are quite as large as those of the Shaddock tree, yellow, and 
very beautiful to the eye ; but in his opinion always unpleasant to the taste. 
As to their being juiceless (an assertion made by this narrator), the very 
appellation of Osage, 7, e. orange, independent of my own testimony, ought to 
have qualified the contradiction. From two or three of the truit which I 
described as seen growing in Mr. Choteau’s garden at St. Louis, in 1810, I 
expressed about half a pint of a milky sweetish fluid, which, unlike most 
lactescent saps, quickly separated into a clear liquid, and a subsiding fecu- 
lent matter, almost appearing like the action of coagulation in milk. I men- 
tion this fact, merely to show that the fruit is not hard and dry, as stated 
by Mr. James. Indeed, from all I can yet learn, the state of the ripe fruit is 
entirely unknown. 

The wood is so completely like that of the Fustick (Morus tinctoria) that 
it would be difficult to tell them apart ; it is equally usetul as a yellow dye, 
and its strength recommends it to the natives for bows.” 

W.S writes. “ I should be glad to be informed, through the medium of the 
Gardener’s Magazine, the price and description of a botanical microscope 


358 Queries and Answers. 


sufficiently strong to examine the grasses, for I have always found them 
very difficult to examine by a small magnifying-glass; and I believe that 
there are a great many young gardeners, like myself, who have been pre- 
vented from enquiring into that valuable family of plants for want of proper 
instruments, and likewise deterred from getting them for want of being 
able to give a proper direction to some of their fellow-servants to get them 
in London, as they are seldom to be met with in the country.” 

One of the most complete botanical microscopes is that recommended 
by Dr. Hooker, of Glasgow, and sold by Jones, 30, Lower Holborn, London, 
at 3/.; and with dissecting knives, 5/. An improved botanical, or universal 
pocket microscope, sold by Jones, and by Bancks, 441, Strand, and others, 
costs 1/. 8s. A triple botanical magnifier, such as is used by practical bo- 
tanists about London, and which we should think well adapted for our 
correspondent, is sold by Bancks for 9s. 6d., and a double magnifier for 
6s. 6d. 

Hely Dutton, Esq., landscape gardener in Ireland, and author of some 
clever county survevs of that kingdom, writes, “I dare say you have seen 
Pontey’s late work _ Pray, is his frontispiece a specimen of English taste 
in water-works? If so, we are all groping in the dark.” — Mount Bellew, 
Castle Blakeney, May 15, 1829. 

Mr. Dan. Stock observes, “ The bee orchis (Ophrys apifera) and the fly 
orchis (O. muscifera) are favourite plants of mine, and although I have fre- 
quently met with them, brought them home, and planted them both in pots 
and in the open ground, they have never again made their appearance, which, 
notwithstanding the opinion of many gardeners, must have been because 
they were not treated properly. I shall therefore be much obliged to you, 
or some of your correspondents, to inform me, through your Magazine, the 
ode of treatment most proper for preserving the above plants, and others 
of the same tribe; and particularly, whether in taking them from their na- 
tive habitations, the mould ought or not to be cleared from the roots.” — 
Bungay, Suffolk, 29th April, 1826. ; 

G. S. writes, “ It will be obliging if you, or any of your readers, give 
some information regarding a root called cara, in Brazil. In the first vo- 
lume of the Edinburgh Gazette, (a work of six volumes) p. 597., there is the 
following observation. 

“¢Hsculent plants grow in Brazil in great profusion and variety. A 
bulbous root called the cara, which grows to the size of about 5 inches dia- 
meter, is in great request ; it is equal to the best potatoes, and even more 
farinaceous.’ 

“Tn your Number for January, p. 87., you mention the prangos, hay-plant, 
which is cultivated in Thibet, but the introduction of which into this coun- 
try had failed, in consequence of the seeds having lost their vegetative 
power. I have seen it stated somewhere, that seeds put up in different 
parcels, and packed in raw sugar, retained their freshness for a great length 
of time, and were not subject to mould or insects, (No! see p.335.) As we 
procure raw sugar from the Kast, rare seeds, put up in casks of sugar, would 
retain moisture and freshness for a year, and come to this country fit for 
depositing in the soil. Jt is much to be lamented, that naturalists and 
botanists do not attend to the rule of Horace, regarding the wile cum dulce, 
for they seem anxious, when they go to distant countries, to collect as many 
varieties and species as possible, and to extend or fill up the classes, genera, 
&c. &c., but we receive little or no information as to the uses and appli- 
cation of plants to the arts and sciences, or to domestic economy. 

“ Various grasses, | am convinced, might be introduced into cultivation in 
this country from distant climates. When on this subject,d may observe, 
that in Botany Bay, and Van Dieman’s Land, the pastures are described to 
be remarkably open, and the grases do not there form a compact sward. 
As a remedy for this open state, white clover and the natural grasses should 


Queries and Answers. 359 


be sown, and ‘rolled immediately, before moist and rainy weather. The 
pastures would then maintain three or four, or more sheep, per acre, in- 
stead of one, as is stated in the accounts from that quarter.” 

W. B. B. writes, “I beg to know, through the medium of your highly 
useful Magazine, if there is any remedy fora disease, which first made its 
appearance on a mayduke cherry, against a south wall, in the Spring of the 
last year, when every leaf on the tree fell off, though every remedy I could 
think of was used ; such as smoking, brushing, and dusting the leaves with 
wood-ashes. Nearly every leaf had thousands of small black insects on it, 
and the wall was likewise quite black with them; they hurt the tree so much, 
that a part of it died, though it threw out a second crop of leaves after 
midsummer. The same tree is now covered with them, and the fruit is all 
blighted, falling off, and the leaves turning yellow. From every observ- 
ation I can make, I am of opinion that watering increases the number of 
insects. Last year they were confined to one wall, but every Morella 
cherry against a north wall, and some standard trees, are infected; as are 
all the espalier and standard trees, in a new garden lately planted. I have 
regularly examined one young tree, which was cut back this Spring, and 
which is watered every day, and every insect picked off, or killed on the 
leaves, and yet every day there is a young brood to kill. I have likewise 
remarked, that where the insects are killed on a leaf, it turns yellow, and 
falls offafter a short time. I have searched Forsyth, and other authors, 
but I cannot find that they mention it, nor is there any account of it in 
the first edition of your Encyclopedia. I beg to mention, that the walls in 
my gardens are of cob (earth), which do not bear washing as_ brick will.”— 
Sanctuary, Devonshire, June 7th, 1826. 

Has our correspondent tried lime-water (not lime and water), or weak 
tobacco-water ? 

Mrs. G. “ would be glad to know the best way of destroying the spawn 
of frogs, and a great number of water-newts (Lacerta aquatica, Lian.) which 
abound ina small pond” in her orchard? We would suggest dissolving lime, 
at the rate of a pint to three gallons, and pouring the water into the pond 
till it took effect; or, salt applied in the same way, which will certainly kill 
every living thing in the pond. But it must be recollected, that if either 
salt or the powder of lime be thrown in undissolved, a much larger quantity 
will be required, as a considerable portion will fall to the bottom, sink in 
the mud, and not be dissolved and taken up by the water. To discover 
which is most effectual, take a glass of salt-water and a glass of lime-water, 
and put a newt and some frog spawn in each. 

A. C. would be glad of information respecting the best mode of treating 
elm-trees, in cases where their bark is continually peeling off, and the cause ; 
and whether Gas, or gas-pipes, conducted up their trunks, would be likely 
to affect them ? —April. 

W. B. writes, “ having a great predilection for flowers, so abundant at 
this season, I should be happy if you could inform me, through the medium 
of your Magazine, if there be any better method for their preservation than 
the usual one of immersing the stalks in fresh water; for though this suc- 
ceeds tolerably well in most cases, yet I find my moss-roses, and some other 
of my flowers, though I change the water daily, very soon fade. Perhaps 
the insertion of the above query in your next number, might afford an op- 
portunity to some one of your numerous readers, of disclosing some peculiar 
method, by which the preservation of these much admired, but too fleeting 
beauties of Flora, may be prolonged. Probably enough has not yet been 
done in the way of experiment for the attainment of this object. — Padding- 
ton, June 17th. The duration of gathered flowers with their stalks in water, 
or wet sand, depends on the coolness and shade of the atmosphere in 
which they are placed. When they have begun to fade, they may be 
revived for an hour or two by substituting warm water for cold. 


360. Obituary. 


Art. XV. Obituary. 


Diep on the 20th April, Mr. William Gibson, many years head gar- 
dener to Henry Peters, Esq , of Betchworth Castle, near Dorking, Surrey. 
This worthy man fell by his own hands, while labouring under temporary 
mental derangement, brought on by a cause which deserves to be men- 
tioned, as affording a lesson to gardeners, and all of us, not to be over 
ambitious of money, nor too eager to step out of our regular path in pursuit 
of it. Mr. Gibson had saved some property, and embarked it in the coal- 
trade, and recently not only lost it all, but involved some of his friends ; or 
he supposed that this was the case, for we have since heard that it was not 
so. This idea preyed upon his mind to such a degree that he was unable to 
bear it. He sent word to his master that he could no longer remain in 
his service ; and the messenger, on his return, found him prostrate on the 
floor of his cottage, with a pistol in hishand. “The feelings of the coro- 
ner’s jury were strongly excited by the production of Mr. Peters’s letter, 
which contained expressions not only in every way calculated to soothe 
the mind of the deceased under his calamity, but to assure him, in terms 
of marked feeling, of his master’s future kindness and protection.” — 
(County Chron.) 


JOHN FORBES, A.L.S. 


On the Tablet erected to the Memory of Mr. Fores, in Chiswick 
Church-yard, is the following inscription: — 

To the Memory of Mr. Joun Forses, A.L.S., a botanical collector in the 
service of the Horticultural Society of London, who died at Senna, onthe 
Zambazee river, in Eastern Africa, in the month of August, 1823, in the 
23d year of his age. This tablet is erected by the Council of the Society, 
in testimony of their entire approbation of his conduct while in their 
service, and of their deep regret at the untimely fate of a naturalist of so 
much enterprise and promise. 


361 


PART IV. 


ADVERTISEMENTS CONNECTED WITH GARDENING AND 
RURAL AFFAIRS. 


WANTED immediately, as a 


FOREMAN in a Public Nursery, a 
Young Man who has a complete knowledge of 
the various Branches of Hardy and Exotic Cul- 
tivation, in which he must have had expe- 
rience, Liberal encouragement will be given. 
For further particulars, apply to Messrs. Cor- 
mare, Son, and Sinclair, 53. Quadrant, Regent 

treet. 


IMPORTANT ENTOMOLOGICAL 
WORKS. 


HE ENTOMO LOGIST’S 


USEFUL COMPENDIUM ; or an Intro- 
duction to the Knowledge of British Insects: 
comprising the best means of obtaining and 
preserving them, and a description of the Ap- 
paratus generally used; together with the 
Genera of Linne, and the modern method of 
arranging the classes Crustacea, Myriapoda, 
Mites, and Insects, from their Affinities and 
Structure, according to the views of Dr. Leach ; 
also an explanation of Terms used in Ento- 
mology ; a Calendar of the times of appear- 
ance and usual situations of near 3000 species 
of British Insects ; with Instructions for collect- 
ing and fitting up objects for the Microscope. 
By GrorGE SAMOUELLE, Associate of the Lin- 
nzan Society of London. 

This work is beautifully printed in one 
volume, 8vo. and illustrated with 12 very ac- 
curate Plates, containing nearly 200 figures of 
Insects, &c., from drawings made by the 
Author. Price J/.in extra boards ; a few copies 
finely coloured after nature, Price 12. 18s. in 
extra boards. 

** An indispensable text book, to every 
student in this delightful and highly popular 
branch of Natural History.’’—Time’s Telescope, 
1826. 

This work has been strongly recommended 
and frequently referred to by Mr. Kirby in the 
third and fourth volumes of his Introduction 
to Entomology. 


A NOMENCLATURE OF 
BRITISH ENTOMOLOGY ; alphabetically 
arranged, and intended as Labels for Cabinets 
of British Insects, &c. Crown 8vo. Price 4s, 6d. 
in extra boards. 


Will be published in a few Days, by the same 
Author, 
DIRECTIONS FOR COL- 
LECTING and PRESERVING EXOTIC 
INSECTS and CRUSTACEA ; for the Use 
of Residents in Foreign Countries, Travellers, 
and Gentlemen going abroad. Illustrated with 
plates. 
Printed for Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, 
and Green, 


NEW WORKS, 


Published by Loneman, RrEs, Orme, BRown, 
and GREEN. 


AN INTRODUCTION to EN- 


TOMOLOGY; or Elements of the Na- 
tural History of Insects. By Witt1am Kirsy, 
M.A. F.R.S. and L.S. and Witt1am Spence, 
Esq. F.L.S. In Two thick closely printed 
Volumes, 8vo. of 740 and 638 pages, illustrated 
by 25 Plates, and Portraits of the Authors. 

ols. III. & IV. which complete the Work, 
1. 1s. each. 

This work, intended both as a general and 
popular History of Insects, and to embrace 
every branch of the Scientific Student’s Re- 
searches concerning them, comprises an ac- 
count of the injuries they occasion to the hu- 
man frame, the farmer, horticulturist, &c.; the 
benefits derived from them; their affection for 
their young; their food, and stratagems in pro- 
curing it; their societies; their habitations; 
their various metamorphoses; their anatomy, 
external and internal; the technical terms of 
the science, &c. &c. 


The First Two Volumes may be had, Price 
18s. each. 


CONVERSATIONS on BO.- 
TANY. With Twenty-one Engravings. The 
Fifth Edition, enlarged, in 1 Vol. 12mo. Price 
7s. 6d. plain, or 12s. coloured. 

The object of this Work is to enable young 
persons to acquire a knowledge of the vegetable 
productions of their native country; for this 
purpose the arrangement of Linnzus is briefly 
explained, anda native plant of each class (with 
a few exceptions) is examined, and illustrated 
by an Engraving; and a short Account is added 
of some of the principal foreign Species. 


HALE A DOZEN HINTS on 
PICTURESQUE DOMESTIC ARCHITEC- 
TURE, in a Series of Designs; for Gate 
Lodges, Gamekeepers’ Cottages, and other Rural 
Residences, By ‘Tl. F. Hunt. ‘The Second Edi- 
tion, in 4to. Price 15s. boards, or 21s. India 
Proofs, boards. 


“< Entertaining the highest opinion of their 
merits in every point of view, we strenuously 
recommend Mr. Hunt’s Hints to attention, 
especially of country gentlemen and of archi- 
tects employed by them.”— Literary Gazette. 


Nearly ready, by the same Author, 


DESIGNS for PARSONAGE- 
HOUSES, ALMS-HOUSES, &c. arranged to 
accord withVillage Scenery. 


362 


Sede Ait 


} 


VALUABLE BOTANICAL WORKS, 
Published by Japs Ringway, 169, Piccadilly, 
“and all Booksellers. A 


1."PHE BOTANICAL RE- 
a GISTER. By Sypennam Epwarps, 


F.L.S. and others,:Vol. XI. Price 21 9s.  Con- 
tinued monthly.” Each number contains eight 
finely coloured portraits (from life) of the most 
beautiful exotic plants, cultivated in the gardens 


and green-houses of this country, accompanied 


with thei history, best mode of Cultivation, ‘pro- 
pagation, &c. &c. Price 4s. 

*¢ * Comparisons are odious, but when a work 
like the present meets our view, so little short, 
if any, of perfection, it is with more than or- 
dinary pleasure we recommend a preference, 
certain of receiving the approbation of those 
who rely on our opinion.” —Literary Chronicle. 

““ We look upon this’ Work” (Edwards’s 
Botanical Register) to be the anly one of its 
class capable of bearing the inspection of ‘the 
Botanist in all its departments ;. and for beauty 
of execution of its plates a@nd- typography, it 


stands unrivalled by anys whatever which have- 


come under our notice.’ *% * “ It cannot fail to 
please'every lover of this fashionable and very 
interesting science, as:well as admirers of beau- 
tiful works in general.” — Monthly Critical 
Gaxette. Seay Sey ; 
*,* Those ladies and» gentlemen who have. 
lately become subscribers to Edwards's ‘* Bota- 
nical Register,” without taking the prior num- 
bers, (many of which were out-of print,) are 
informed they are now severally reprinted, and 
will in future be always kept in print, that such 
as may prefer completing their sets gradually 
and periodically, may do so without disappoint- 
ment, 
2. SWEET’S HORTUS BRI- 
TANNICUS; or, a Catalogue of all Plants cul- 
tivated in the Gardens of Great Britain, 
whether exotic or indigenous, arranged ac- 
cording to the Natural Orders to which they 
belong, with a reference to the Linnzan Classes 
and Orders ; their Scientific and English Names, 
with references to the best. Authorities ; where 
native, when introduced, their times of flower- 
ing, duration, and references to the books in 
which they are figured; with numerous other 
improvements. The whole brought down to 
the present time, and contains many hundreds. 


of Plants not yet published in any Catalogue of | 
_ By Roperr Sweet, F.LS, 


this Country. 
1 volume 8vo, 18s. ; 

“38. tHE HOT-HOUSE AND 
GREEN-HOUSE MANUAL, or BOTANI- 
CAL CULTIVATOR; giving full Instruc- 
tions for the Management and best Method of 
Cultiyation and Propagation of all the Plants 
cultivated in the Hot-houses, Green-houses, and 
Borders, in the Gardens of Great Britain; with 
plain Directions for the Management of Plants 
in Rooms, &c. Disposed under the Generic 
Names of the Plants, alphabetically arranged 
under the heads of the department of Horti- 
culture to which they belong. Second edition, 
By Robert Sweet, F.L.S. Price 12s. 

“ Of this very useful book, we perceive that a 
second edition has been lately published, con- 
taining much new information, especially upon 
the treatment of those plants which are the most 
difficult to cultivate. We recommend this work 
to every:lover of gardening.”” Hdwards’s Botan- 
ical Robison for November, 1825. " 

“ Itis a very complete and excellent work, 
atid furnishes all the information that can be 
required on the subjects of which it treats.” — 

‘Literary Gazette, November 1825. ‘ 

-“* Indeed, what Mr. Sweet has said on the 
cuiture of bulbs and epiphytes in the last edition 
of his Botanical Cultivator, may be considered 
as the wltimatum on this subject for the British 
Gardener.” Gardener’s Mag: No 2. for April. 


Futility and accuracy of a 


nn 


Advertisements connected with Gardening, Sc. 


4. GERANIACEM, or Narurat 
OrpeER of the BEAUTIFUL Famity of GeERa- 
niums. By Rospert Sweet, F.L.S. Vol. iii. 
31. 15s. Continued monthly. Price 3s. each. 

5. CISTINEA. The Narurat 
Orper of Cistus, or Rock-rose. By R. SwEEr, 
F.L.S., Number VII. for July, and continued 
every alternate month. Price 3s. 

6 THE FRUIT-GROWER’S IN- 
STRUCTOR ; a Practical Treatise on Fruit- 
Trees, from the Nursery to Maturity, with Lists 


| of those Fruits most worthy of Cultivation, both 


for keeping and immediate use. To which is 
added an Effectual Remedy for, and Prevention 
from, the canker in apple-trees. By G. Buss, 
Nurseryman, 6s. boards. 


PICTORIAL PLANS. — It is 


many yoars since an attempt was first made 
to introduce a superior style of delineating estates, 
but custom and prejudice have in a great mea- 
sure prevented its adoption by landed proprie- 
tors, Convinced, however, that this, like dther 
branches of art, must keep pace with the im- 
proved perception of the age, I have devoted 
much time and study to its acquirement 3 and 
though I do not see the possibility of convert- 
ing a plan into picture, still I find it possible, 
by delineating the principal features of the park, 
pleasure grounds, &¢., and by correctly Tepre- 
senting the character of their timber, woods, 
and plantations, to produce a drawing which 
shall possess much pictorial beauty, and convey 
such a general impressjon of the place as to 
form an extremely interésting and almost in- 
dispensibie addition to a library or sitting room 5 
the drawing, at the same time, possessing all the 
ound plan. I have 
sometimes, in addition to this, taken a series of 
views, shewing the principal beauties and cha- 
racteristics of the seat: These, bound up with a 
reduced plan and written “description of its 


topography, antiquities, and capabilities for im- ; 
provement, form a pleasing Manuscript illustra-~ 


tion, which is ever an agreeable companion 
to a visitor, and a useful reference to the pro- 
prietor. _ ¥ 

For the information of gentlemen who may 


_ wish to have a pictorial plan of their estates 


ey 


arks, I think it proper to state that. a 
mae curvey is not always “necessary; an old 
oe will generally answer every purpose, pro- 
ided it is accurate. All that is required is to 
visit'the place, to make sketches, observations, 


and corrections, the charge for which is- ‘O- 


much per day and expences: but even thismay 
sometimes be dispensed with ; for a full deserip- 
tion, on a rough plan, of the charactér uf the 
trees, &c, will often answer every purpose. If 
a fresh survey is necessary, the charge is, for 
common arable land, 1s. per acre and expences ; 
but a park or other intricate spot must be 
charged for by the day. I will now give some 
idea of the probable expense of the drawings. 
A small villa or residence, forming a drawing of 


from 10 to 15 inches square, would be about — 


2 or 3 guineas. A park, consisting of 50 to 200 
acres, 20 to 30 inches square, 5 to 10 guineas, A 
common arable farm of the same space and 
quantity, 3 to.6 guineas. A combined plan of 
park and lands, from 300 to 600 acres, 50 to 60 
inches square; from 10° to 15 and 20 guineas, 
according to the scale, quantity of work, and 
finishing ; and so on to any extent of property. — 

Mr. J. Thompson will be happy to correspond 
with any gentleman who may feel inclined to 
employ him, or by calling at his residence they 
may see specimens of his style, and learn more 
of his charges. * Auctioneers and Jand-agents, 
who have’ property for sale, will’ find that a 
pictorial’ plan’ is an’ advantageous - mode of 
creating an’ interest and conveying a correct 
conception of an estate. No. I, Wellington 
Street, Waterloo Bridge, Strand. 


~~ 


THE 


GARDENER’S MAGAZINE, 
| OCTOBER, 1826. 


PART I. 


ORIGINAL COMMUNICATIONS. 


Arr. I. Hunts for the better Cultivation of the Cape Heaths, 
derived from Observation of their Native Soils and Situ- 
ations. By Mr. James Bowie, Botanical Collector at the 
Cape. 


Sir, 
(HE publication of the list, in your Magazine, of Professor 

Dunbar’s extensive collection of Ericze has induced me to 
offer the following hints for the better culture of that beautiful 
and extensive genus, and which I hope will merit your notice, 
as they are taken from actual observations that are inaccessible 
to most persons. I am the more anxious to press the subject 
for your consideration, as being myself particularly interested 
in the collecting of the Cape species; and can receive no 
greater pleasure than finding that the labours of the collec- 
tors are duly appreciated by attentive individual culture; 
while, on the other hand, nothing can be more mortifying 
than to observe a careless inattention evinced towards those 
objects, in the procuring of which the collector has risked his 
life, by encountering dangers and undergoing privations which 
but few persons can surmount. 

I do not pretend to improve the practical gardener in the 
propagation of the genus by cuttings, as this mode of increase 
is well understood and practised in this country; seeds are, 
however, much preferable, as requiring less labour, and, in 
some species, forming flowering plants as soon as those from 
cuttings. The most general (and, I consider, the best) time 
that large collections of seeds of the Cape Erica: arrive in this 
country are the months of July and August: from the begin- 
ning of the former till the end of the latter menth, or perhaps 

Vou. I. No. 4. Cie 


364 Culture of the Cape Heaths. 


later, is a favourable time for sowing them; they should not 
be sown thick, for, if the seeds are good, they are weakened 
by being close, and liable to injury by thinning them out in the 
seed-pots. Seeds of Ericee I have known to vegetate well, 
after being twelve years in this country. The soil for the 
seeds should be rather sandy than boggy, and the pots well 
drained, to allow a free passage for the superabundance of 
water given during the winter months; though, until the seeds 
shall have vegetated, I do not consider any quantity of water 
detrimental. From various causes all the species do not vege- 
tate at the same time; those which first come up should be 
separated from the rest and exposed to the air, and receive 
less water than those not yet up. ‘The drier the plants are 
kept through the winter there is the less chance of their 
damping off, and they will be hardier and in a fitter state for 
potting early the following spring. 


Soil for first potting off, —  - sandy peat, 3, sandy loam, 2. 
First shifting S - sandy peat, 3, sandy loam, 3. 
Second ditto, - sandy peat, 1, sandy loam, 3. 


Third, and if possible final shifting, sandy loam only. 


To show the propriety of such treatment I have selected a 
few specific names from the above-mentioned list, (conceiving 
that they are more generally known,) and stated the nature of 
the soils and situations in which they are found in their native 
wilds, and trust that this will assist the intelligent cultivator to 
arrive at a perfection in their growth, and in prolonging their 
existence, hitherto rarely attained, but so much desired by 
most cultivators, who at present turn from Ericze in despair, 
and content themselves by fostering less beautiful plants. 

Ericze do not like frequent shifting, nor do they long thrive 
in soil that is finely sifted ; stones, or even broken fragments 
of garden pots, of one fourth to one half inch in diameter, 
seem beneficial to the health of Ericz, while finely sifted soil 
consolidates into an unwholesome and stagnate mass, prevent- 
ing the free passage of superfluous water. 


be anode In ae were and springy grounds, a black 
colorans, vegetable soul. 

2, Albens, 7 
ampullacea, 
retorta, | shattered sand-stone rocks, little or no soil, the 
ardens, roots embracing the stones in the crevices. 
fastigiata, | 
fascicularis, J 

3. Caffra, 
eriocephala, Similar situations as No. 2. but thrive more freely 
gelida, in the moist clefts, 3000 feet above the sea. 
Halicacaba, 


Culiure of the Cape Heaths. 365 


4. Viscaria, 5 
Blerioides, Decomposed sand-stone, shaded by Scirpoidese, &¢ 
viridiflora, ; 
5. Sebana, 7 
sexfaria, \ Decomposed schistus, lower parts of the moun- 
Plukenetiana, { tains and secondary hills, exposed to drought. 
_ baceans, J 
6. Massoni, } 
calycina, | In pure sand, exposed to heat and drovght on the 
retorta, $ mountains, from 2000 to 5000 feet above the sea 
Walkeria, | level. 
gracilis, J 
7. Mammosa, | 
metuleeflor. p 
cennihGi Hae In sand on the lower plains, frequently on spots 
. 2 i i r 
pais, f abounding in natron. 
grandiflora, J 
8. Vestita, } 
filamento ates d 
arene | In loam with iron pyrites on the exposed plains 
aeente D b and secondary mountains, enduring drought at 
: : 
memeaar times for several months. 
triflora, J 
9. Urceolari : - 
oy oP IB Decomposed schistus, on the streams in deep shaded 
persoluta, lens 
arborescens ? eeu 
10. i : i i 
Yee In stiff loam, and margins of woodlands, moist 
aageolane glens, &c. surrounded by various Pelargoniums, 
> 1 OAc 3 
ny 4 Scirpoidez, &c. 


E. cerinthoides is spread more extensively over the Cape 
colony than any other species; it thrives best in the most 
exposed situations. 

The soils in which Nos. 1. and 4. are found, approach 
nearly to some of our bog soils, but not precisely so; so that, 
excepting Nos. 1. and 4. as above, no bog earth is wanting’; it 
only serves to weaken the growth where a good sandy loam 
wouid strengthen it, and insure good flowering plants for years. 

Fire heat, and a long confined atmosphere and smoke, are 
injurious to Ericee; fresh air ought to be admitted freely, for 
although the finest species come from a warm country, yet 
they withstand several degrees of frost. Some green-house 
species will bear some British winters; always better if in a 
northern exposure. 

I am, dear Sir, &c. 


Kew, May 31. 1826. J. Bowie. 


Mr. Bowie’s information will probably lead to a revolution 
in the culture of heaths; and, by rendering it much more 
simple, less expensive, and less precarious, tend to the dis- 
semination of one of the most elegant families of plants. Of 

CKO) 174 


366 Cape Heaths flowering in January. 


what other genus can it be said that every species, without 
exception, is beautiful throughout the year, and at every period 
of its growth? —in flower or out of flower, and of every 
size andage? Suppose an individual had the penance imposed 
upon him of being forbidden to cultivate more than one genus 
of ornamental plants, is there a genus that he could make choice 
of at all to be compared to Erica?  Perpetually green, perpe- 
tually in flower, of all colours, of all sizes, and of many shapes ! 

As a fit companion to Mr. Bowie’s communication, and a 
‘standing testimony in favour of our own opinion of Erica, 
we insert a list which has been in preparation for us for 
the last twelve months by Messrs. Rollisson.— We request the 
attention of our readers also to the catalogue of hardy heaths 
at Tooting. Those who have no green-house may still grow 
a very fine assortment in beds or groups of moist sandy loam, 
or of loam and peat, out of doors. One of the finest heath- 
eries of this sort is the Duke of Bedford’s at Woburn, where, 
besides Ericee, there are others of the same family, as Men- 
ziesia, &c. to the number of nearly 30 species, besides varieties. 

Mr. Bowie, who is now at Kew, intends to return very 
shortly to the Cape of Good Hope, and resume his labour of 


collecting the various interesting specimens of natural history 
of that country. Although botanical collections were the 


objects of his former travels, yet he was not inattentive to 
other branches of natural history; and from the various 
observations he there made, hopes to be useful in his future 
researches to those professors who are anxious to form exten- 
sive collections for their cabinets. We hope to be favoured 
with occasional communications from him on heaths, Proteas, 
and other subjects connected with that interesting colony, and 
suited for the Gardener’s Magazine. — Cond. 


Art. II. List of Cape Heaths which have. been in Flower in 
- the Tooting Nursery in each Month of the Year. Commu- 
nicated by Messrs. Rotiisson, Nurserymen, Tooting. 


Ericas flowering in January. 


1. Absinthoides 16. Concolor superba 29. Ignescens (fig.65. c.) 42. Pellucida 

2, Archeria (fig. 66.e.) 17. Cupressina 30, Imbricata 43, Pinea. 

3. Arctata 18. Decora (fig.73.c.) 31. Lacticolor 44. Pinifolia 

4. Ardens (fig. 71. 6.) 19. Denticulata 32, Lambertia 45. Prestans 

5. Aspera 20. Exsurgens 33, Laxa 46. Pubescens major 
6. Assurgens 21. Filamentosa 34, Leucanthera 47, Pubescens minima 
7. Bandonia (fig. 75. g.) (fig. 74. 6.) 48. Pulchella 

8. Bruniades 22, Flava 35. Linnzoides 49, Radiata 

9, Caffra 23. Floribunda (fig.73,7.) 36. Longipedunculata 50. Ramentacea 
10. Calycina 24, Formosa (fig. 75. 6.) (fig. 73. a.) 
11. Canaliculata 25. Furfurosa 37. Lutea eh 51. Regerminans 
12. Carinata 26. Gracilis 38. Mammosa (fig.65.g.) 52. Retorta ( fig. 68. g.) 
13, Colorans (fig.67. c.) 27. Grandinosa 39. Mucosa (jig. a3 Jf.) 53. Rollisson’s blanda 


14, Comosa rubra (fig. 72, 6.) 40. Mutabilis 54. Scabriuscula 
1%, Concinna (fig. 67. b.) 28. Hirta 41. Ovaleflora 55, Sebana aurantia 


Cape Heaths flowering in February. 367 


56. Sebana lutea 60. Solandra 65. Transparens 69, Vernix coccinea 
57. Serpyllifolia 61. Sordida \ 66. Triceps 70. Versicolor ( fig.65. 5.) 
58, Serratifolia 62. Sparsa 67, Triumphans 71. Vestita purpurea 
(fig. 65. f.) 63. Templea (fig. 70. h.) (fig.67. h.) 
59. Sessiliflora 64. Tenella 68. Vernix 72. Viridescens 
speciosa. { versicolor. _ ignescens. grandiflora. 


elida. serratifolia. mammosa. cruenta. fascicularis 
Bi 


Ericas flowering in February. 


Absinthoides 771. Echiiflora superba Longipedunculata Retorta (fig. 68. g.) 
Archeria (jig. 66. e.) 78. Elegans (fig. 68. ¢.) (fig. 75. 6.) Rollisson’s blanda 
Arctata Filamentosa Lutea Scabriuscula 
Ardens (fig.71. 6.) (fig. 75. g.) 81. Melastoma 87, Sebana 
Aspera Flava Mutabilis - lutea 
Assurgens Formosa Ovalefiora Serpyllifolia 
Bandonia Gracilis Pellucida Serratifolia(fig.65.f.) 
73. Bicolor ( fig. 67. g.) Grandinosa 82. Petiverianacoccinea _ Sessiliflora (clave - 
Bruniades (fig. 72. 6.) 83. Peziza (fig.72. d.) flora, Andr. 66.a.) 
Caffra Hirta 84. Physodes (jig.71. c.) 88. Setacea 
Canaliculata Ignescens (fig.65. c.) 85. Picta t Sparsa 
Carinata 79. Imbecilla Pinea Templea 
74, Cerinthoides Imbricata Pinifolia Tenella 
_(fig. 68. 6.) Lacticolor 86. Plukenetiana Transparens 
75. Coccinea (fig. 67.6.) | Lambertia Prestans Triumphans 
Colorans (fig.67. c.) Laxa Pubescens major (fig. 70. h.) 
Concolor superba Leucanthera Pubescens minima Vernix 
Cupressina (fig.74. 6.) Pulchella coccinea 
Decora (fig. 73. c.) Linnzoides Radiata Versicolor (fig. 65.0.) 
76. Discolor 80. Linneana (fig. 67. d.) Regerminans Viridescens 
sessiliflora (claveeftora, Andr.) flammea. purpurea. sulphurea. 


tubiflora. curviflora. 


368 Cape Heaths flowering in March and April. 


Ericas flowering in March. 


Absinthoides 99. Concava Lutea 114. Scariosa (fig. 73. 4.) 
89. Acuminata Concolor superba Melastoma . Sebana 
(fig. 69. h.) Cupressina 104. Mollis Serpyllifolia 
90. Acuta Decora (fig.'73. c.) 105. Mundula (fig. 72. 7.) 
91. Albens (fig. 75. e.) Echiiflora superba Mutabilis Sessiliflora (clave- 
92. Arborea Elegans (jig. 68. c.) 106. Nigrita - flora, Andr. 66.4.) 
Archeria (fig.66. €.) 100. Epistomia 107. Patens 115. Sexfaria (jig.70. d.) 
Arctata 101. Fimbriata(jig.70.6.) 108. Persoluta rubra Sparsa 
Ardens (fig. 71. 0.) Formosa (fig. 72. h.) Templea 
93. Aristata major 102. Fragrans Petiveriana cocci- Tenella 
Aspera Gracilis nea Triumphans 
94, Atro-rubens Grandinosa Peziza (jig. 72. d.) (fig.'70. h.) 
95, Australis (fig. 72. 6.) Picta 116, Trossula rubra 
Bandonia Hirta 109. Pinasterifolia Vernix 
96. Blandfordia Ignescens(fig.65. c.) 110. Pinifolia elegans _~ coccinea 
97. Bonplandia’ Imbecilla Plukenetiana Versicolor 
Bruniades Imbricata 111. Pomifera ig. 65. 0.) 
Cafira Lacticolor Prestans 117. Vestita carnea 
Canaliculata 103. Levis alba 112. Pubescens (fig. 67. h.) 
Carinata, Lambertia — -minima 118. - incarnata 
Cerinthoides - Linnzoides 113. Purpurea( fig.66. c.) 119. - rosea 
(fig. 68. 6.) Linneana(jig.67. d.) Regerminans Viridescens 
98. magna Longipedunculata Rollisson’s blanda 120. Viscaria 
Colorans (fig. 67. ¢.) (fig. 75. 6.) Scabriuscula 121, Walkeria 
monadelpha. concinna. colorans- Linneana- 


elongata. Massoni. bicolore vestitae rosea. 


Ericas flowering in April. 


122. Acutangularis 130, Dilecta Mundula Pubescens minima 
Albens (fig.75. e.) 131. Divaricata Mutabilis 153. Quadrifiora 

123. Amoena 132, Echiiflora purpurea, Nigrita Scariosa (fig. 73. é,) 
Arborea superba 139, Nivea Sexfaria (fig. 70. a 
Archeria (jig. 66. e.) Elegans (fig 68. c.) 140. Obbata rosea 154. Sulphurea(jig.66.d. 
Arctata Epistomia 141. Odora rosea Templea 
Ardens (fig. 71. b.) 133. Expansa 142. Ovata Tenella 
Aristata major 134. Favoides elegans 143. Patersonia 155. Thalictriflora 
Aspera Fimbriata(ig-70.0.) 144. Persoluta alba Triumphans 
Australis Formosa rubra (fig. 70. h.) 

124. Biflora (jig. 70. a.) Fragrans (fig. 72. h.) Trossula rubra. 

125. Blanda Grandinosa 145. Perspicua nana 156. Venusta 
Blandfordia (fig. 72.6.) 146. Petiveriana Vernix 
Bonplandia 135. Hybrida : Peziza (fig. 72. d.) coccinea 
Bruniades Ignescens ( jig.65.c.) Picta (fig. 65. 6.) 

126. Campanulata Imbecilla 147. Pinea purpurea Versicolor 
Cerinthoides Lacticolor 148. Pinifolia echioides 157. Vestita alba 

(fig. 68. b.) Linnzoides elegans (fig. 67. hs) 

é magna Linneana (fig.67.d.) 149. ———— favoides carnea 

127. Cistifolia Lutea 150. ————. pulchella_ 158, coccinea 
Colorans (fig. 67. c.) Melastoma Plukenetiana 159. fulgida 
Concava 136. Mirabilis Pomifera —— rosea 

128. Costata 137. Modesta 151. Princeps ( jig. 68. e.) Viridescens 


’ Cupressina Mollis 152. Propendens Viscaria 
129. Daphnoides 138. Moschata ( jig.69.e.) Pabescens major Walkeria 


metulzfiora 
+ 


princepse 


Cape Heaths flowering in May. 


cerinthoides 


ampullacea. 


elegans. 


Ericas flowering in May. 


160. Acuta Dilecta 
Acutangularis Divaricata 
Albens (fig. 75. e.) Elegans (jig. 68. c.) 
Amoena Epistomea 
Arborea Expansa 

161, Arbutiflora 171. Favoides 
Arctata ——— elegans 
Ardens (jig. 71. 6.) Fimbriata( fig.70.0 ) 
Aristata major Formosa 
Aspera Fragrans 
Australis 172. Gelida (fig. 65. e.) 

162. Baccans (fig. 70. g.) 173. Gemmifera 
Biflora (fig. 70. as Grandinosa (72. 5.) 
Blandfordia 74. Humea 
Bonplandia Hybrida 

163. Bowieana Ignescens(fig.65.c.) 
Bruniades TImbecilla 

164. Calycina capitata Lacticolor 
Campanulata Levis alba 

165. Celsi 175. Linneana superba 
Cistifolia Lutea ‘ 
Concava Melastoma 
Costata - Mirabilis 

166. Coventryana Modesta 

167. Cylindrica Mollis 

168. Daphneflora . Moschata(fig.69.e.) 

- _ Daphnoides Mundula 

169. Denticulata mus- 176, Muscaria 

caria Mutabilis 

170. Depressa Nigrita 

Coriifolia. infundibularis. 


moschata. 


Nivea 
Obbata rosea 
Odora rosea 


Ovata 

177. Paniculata alba 
Patersonia 
Persoluta alba 


—— rubra(72.h) 


Perspicua nana 
Petiveriana 
Peziza (fig. 72. d.) 
Picta 


Pinea purpurea 
Pinifolia elegans 
pulchella 

Plukenetiana 
Pomifera 

178. Pregnans 
Princeps (fig. 68. e.) 
Propendens 
Pubescens major 
————— minima 
Quadrifiora 

179. Reflexa 

180. Rollissoni 

181. Russelliana 
Scariosa (fig, 73. 2.) 
Sexfaria (fig.'70. d.) 

182. Simplicifolia 

183. Spuria (fig. 66. f.) 


Cliffordia. 


184. 


369 


ventricosa: 


Sulphurea( fig.6i.d 
Templea 

Tenella 
Thalictriflora 
Thunbergia (70. c.) 
‘Transparens 


185. ‘Tricolor 


186. 
187. 
188. 


189. 
190. 
191. 
192. 


193, 


Triumphans (70. 2.) 
Trossula rubra 
Tubiflora (fig.66.2.) 
Umbellata 
Ventricosa alba 
(fig. 68. d.) 
——$— carnea 
coccinea 
nana 
——— superba 
Venusta 
Vernix 
coccinea 
Versicolor( fig 65.b.) 
Vestita alba (67. 2.) 
carnea 
coccinea 
elegans 
fulgida 
rosea 
Viridescens 
Viscaria 
Walkeria 


Aitonia. 


plimuloides- 


370 


Ericas flowering in June. 


Cape Heaths flowering in June and July. 


Acuta , Depressa 210. Massoni ( fig. 67...) Reflexa , 
Acutangularis Dilecta Melastoma 218. rubra 
Albens (fig. 75. ¢.) Elegans (fig. 68.c.) 211. Metuleflora Retorta (fig. 68. ¢.) 
Ameena Epistomia (fig. 68. a.) . 219. Rigida: _ 
194. Ampullacea (68. f.) 201. Eriocephala Mirabilis Rollissoni 
Arborea 202. Ewerana superba Modesta Russelliana 
Ardens (fig. 71. 0.) Expansa Mollis 220, Savillea 53 
Aristata major Favoides Moschata ( fig.69.e.) Scariosa (fig. 73. 2.) 
Aspera —— elegans Mundula Sexfaria (fig. 70. d.) 
Baccans (jig. 70. g.) Fimbriata(fig.70.b.) Mutabilis 221. Shannonia 
Bandonia ‘Formosa Nivea Spuria (fig. 66. f.) 
Blandfordia Fragrans Obbata rosea Sulphurea( fig.66.d.) 
Bowieana Gelida (fig. 65. e.) 212. Obcordata rubra Templea 
Bruniades Gemmitera Odora rosea Tenella 
Calycina capitata 203. Grandiflora (65. d.) 213. Ollula 222, Tetragona 
Campanulata Grandinosa (72. b.) Ovata Thalictriflora 
195. Capitata (fig. 71. a.) 204. Hispidula - 214. Parmentiera Thunbergia (70. c.) 
196, Carneola Humea 215. rosea 223, Translucens rosea 
Celsi Hybrida Patersonia Tricolor 
Cistifolia Imbecilla ’ Perspicua nana ‘Triumphans (70. h.) 
197. Comosa alba 205. Inflata Petiveriana Tubiflora (jig.66.h.) 
- rubra 206. Infundibularis Peziza (fig. 72. d.) 224. Ventricosa (68. d.) 
Concava (fig. 69. b.) Picta —— alba 
Costata 207. Irbyana Pinea carnea 
Coventryana 208. Jasminifiora Pinifolia elegans Vernix ay 
198. Cubica major(74.d.) Levis alba Plukenetiana : coccinea 
199. minor Linneana superba Pomifera Versicolor(fig.65.0.) 
Cylindrica (fig. 67. d.) 216. Preegnans coccinea Vestita alba (67. h.) 
Daphneflora Longipedunculata 217. superba carnea 
Daphnoides (fig. 75. 6.) Princeps (fig. 68. e.) coccinea 
200. Densa Lutea ; Pubescens major - elegans 
Denticulatamus- 209. Mammosa pur- minima fulgida 
caria purea Ramentacea (73. a.) rosea 
biflora. fimbriata. Thunbergia. - sexfaria. 


taxifolia. 


Acuminata (69. h.) 
Acutangularis 
225. Ageregata 
_ 226. Aitonia (fig. 69. d.) 
Albens (fig.'75. e.) 
anpillaces ( 
mpullacea (68. f-) 
Ardens (fig. 71. 6.) 
_ Aristata major 
0 minor 


Bandonia 
Bowieana . 
Bruniades 
Calycina capitata 
Capitata (fig. 71. a.) 
Campanulata 
Carinata 

Carneola 
Cerinthoides (68..) 
——— magna 
Comosa alba 

rubra 


Concava 
Costata 
Coventryana 


Baccans (jig. 70. g.) 


baccans.— 


triumphans. 


Ericas flowering in July. 


Cubica major 
(fig. 74. d.) 
minor 
Cupressina 
epressa 
Eriocephala 


_Ewerana superba 


228 
229, 


230. 
231. 


Expansa 

Formosa 
Gemmifera 
Grandiflora (65. d.) 


- Hartnelli (new) 


Hispidula 
Incarnata 
Infundibularis 
(fig. 69. b.) 
Irbyana 
Jasminiflora 
Suteial Gas Goes 
uliana . 69. g.) 
Lambertia a a 
Longipedunculata 
(fig. 75. 6.) 
Mammosa_pur- 


purea 
Mass oni (fig. 67. f.) 


Moschata ( jrg.69,e.) 
Muscaria 

Mutabilis 

Nitida 

Obcordata rubra 
Ollula ; 
Parmentiera 
Petiolata 
Pregnans coccinea 
superba 


232, 


rosea 
233. 


234. 


aan Pura (fig. 73. d.) 


Pygmza] 
Quadriflora 
Ramentacea (73. a.) 
Reflexa : 
rubra 
Retorta (fig. 68. g.) 
Russelliana 
Savillea 
Shannona 
puria (fig. 66. f. 
Sulphurea (jig eho) 
236, Taxifolia (fig.70. c.) 
Templea 


237 


pacers (fig.68. e.) 238. 


239. 


240. 


241. 


flaceida, 


Tenella 


. Tenuiflora alba 


Tetragona 
Thunbergia (70. c.) 
Translucens rosea 
Triceps 
Tricolor 
Triumphans (70, h.) 
Ventricosa (68. d.) 
alba 
carnea 
hirsuta 
nana 
purpurea 
stellata 
superba 
Vernix coccinea 
Vestita alba 

(fig. 67. h.) 
carnea 
coccinea 
elegans 
fulgida 
rosea 
Viridiflora 
Walkeria 


Cape Heaths flowcring in August. 


capitata. 


pyrolzflora. resinosa. 
Acuminata Cubica major 
(fig. 69. h.) (fig. 74. d.) 
Albens (fig. 75. e.) minor 
242, Alopecuroides Densa 
Aggregata Depressa 
Aitonia (fig. 69. d.) 248. Droseroides 
Ampullacea 249, Elata 
( fig. 68. f.) Eriocephala 


Archeria (fig. 66. e. 


ardens, 


Ewerana 


) 
Ardens (fig. 71. 6.) 250. Exerta 


Aristata major 
Assurgens 
Bandonia 
243, Banksia rubra 
Bruniades 
Calycina 
Capitata (fig. 71. a.) 
Carinata 
- Carneola 
Cerinthoides 
(fig. 68. 6.) 
magna 
244, Cernua (fig. 74. a.) 
Coccinea : 
-Comosa alba 
. —— ae 
245. Conferta 73. h. 
246. Cue 
247. Cruenta (fig. 65. h.) 


sanguinolenta. 


Scholliana. Pirtifloras 


251. Exsurgens 


Filamentosa 
75. g.) 


(fig. 
252. Flagelliformis 


Formosa 
Furfurosa 
Gemmifera 
Grandiflora ' 
(fig.65. d.) 
Hartnelli 


. Hibbertia 


(fig. 66.2.) 
Hispidula 


254, Hyacinthoides 


Imbricata 
Incarnata 
Infundibularis 


(fig. 69. 6.) 
Irbyana 


grandinosa. 


suaveolens. 


physodes. glauca. 


71 C 


es, 


ie. 
So 
qh 


togata. empetrifolia.- 


Ericas flowering in August. 


Jasminiflora 264. Pura (jig. 73. d.) 
rubra Pygmza 
Lambertia Radiata 
255. Lanata Ramentacea 
256. Lawsoni (fig. 68. h.) (fig. 73. a.) 
Longipedunculata Retorta (fig. 68. g. 
(fig. 75. b.) . Rubens (jig. 70.5) 
Lutea 66, Rupestris 
Mammosa pur- Savillea 
purea Setacea 
257. Margaritacea Shannonia 


Massoni ( fig. 67. f.) 267. 


258. Mucosa 
Mutabilis 
Nitida 
259. Nobilis 
Obcordata rubra 
260, Obliqua 
Ollula 
261. Oppositifolia 
262, Palustris ( fig. 75.2 .) 
Parmentiera 


Pellucida rubra 
263. Perlata 

Pinifolia elegans 

Princeps ( fig. 68. e.) 

Pubescens major 

Pulchella 


nidularia. 


persoluta- 


Speciosa ( fig.65. a.) 
Spuria ( fig. 66. f:) 
Taxifolia ( fig.70.e.) 
Tenuiflora alba 
Tetragona 
Translucens rosea 
Triceps 
Tricolor 
Ventricosa 

( fig. 68.d.) 
Vernix coccinea 


rosea 268. Verticillata 


Vestita alba 
(fig.67. h.) 

coccinea 

fulgida 


serpyllifolia. 


372 


Absinthoides 
BN ane (fig. 69. 


Aggregata 
Aitonia (fig. 69. d.) 
269. Alopecuroides 
Archeria ( fig.66.e.)_ 
Ardens (jig. 71. 6.) 
Aspera 
Assurgens 
Bandonia 
Banksia rubra 
Bowieana 
Caffra 
Calycina 
Capitata (fig. 71. a.) 
Carinata 
270. Carneola 
271. Cerifolia - 
Cerinthoides 
( fig. 68. 6.) 
magna 
272. Concinna fens h} 


Conferta (fig.73. h. 
Cruenta. (fig. 65. h. 
Cubica minor 


ramentacea. tiarzeflora. 


Acuminata 
( fig. 69. h.) 

Aggregata 

Aitonia ( fig. 69. d 

Archeria ( jig.66.e. 

Ardens (fiz. 71.) 

Aspera 

Assurgens 
277. Banksia purpurea 
rubra 

Bandonia 
278, Bleria 

Bowieana 

Caftra 

Calycina 

Capitata (jig. 71. a.) 

Carinata 

Carneola 

Cerifolia 

Cerinthoides 

( fig. 68. 6.) 

magna 
Colorans (fig.67. c.) 
Comosa rubra 
Concava. 


Ericas flowering in September. 


Cupressina 
Densa 
Droseroides 
Elata 
Ewerana 
xserta 
273. Exudans 
Exsurgens 
carnea 
major 
Filamentosa 
(fig. 75. g.) 
Formosa 
Furfurosa 
Wee 
: 2.65. d. 
Hartnelli 
eee a ‘ 
Jig. 66. g.) 
Hieaulaal 
Imbricata 
Incarnata 
Jasminiflora 


275. 


rubra 


Lambertia 
Lanata- 
decora. 


Lawsoni (fig 68. 2.) 
Longipedunculata 

« fig. 75. b.) 
Lutea 
Margaritacea 


. Montana 


Muscosa . 
Mutabilis 
Nitida 
Nobilis 
Obliqua 
Ollula 
Oppositifolia 
Ovaliflora 
Palustris (fig.'75. 7.) 
Pellucida rubra 
Perlata 
Pinifolia elegans 
Prestans 
Princeps (fig. 68. €.’ 
Pubescens major 
ae 73. d) 
ura . 713. d. 
Radiata 
Ramentacea 
(fig. 73. @.) 


scar1osa. 


Ericas flowering in October. 


Concinna( fig.67 a 


Conferta ( fig.73. h. 


‘Cruenta ( fig. 65. h.) 


Cubica minor 
Cupressina 
ensa 
Droseroides 
Exserta 
Exsudans 
Exsurgens 


carnea 
major 
Filamentosa 

(fig. 75. g-) 
Flava 


Formosa: 
Furfurosa 

279. Glandulosa 

280. Globosa 
Gracilis 
Hartnelli 
Hispidula 
Imbricata 

281. Lachnea purpurea 
Lambertia 


Laxa 
Leucanthera 
( fig. 74. b.) 
Longipedunculata 
(fig. 75. b.) 
Lutea 
Mammosa(jig.65.¢.) 
Montana 


Mucosa 
Mutabilis 
Nitida 
Nobilis 
Oppositifolia 
Ovata 


Palustris (fig. 75. é.) 


282. Pedunculata 


Perlata 

Pinea 

Prestans 

Princeps (jig. 68. e.) 
Pubescens major 


minor 
Pulchella 
Pura (jig. 73. d.° 


Cape Heaths flowering in September and October. 


Retorta (fig. 68. g.) 

Rollisson’s blanda 

Rubens (fig. 70. f.) 

Rupestris 

Savillea 

Setacea 

Shannonia 

Solandra 

Sordida 

Speciosa (fig. 65. a.) 

Spuria (fig. 66. f.) 

Taxifolia (fig.70. e.) 

Templea 

Tenella 

Tenuiflora alba 

Translucens rosea 

‘Triceps 

Vernix coccinea 

Verticillata 

Vestita alba 
(fig.67. h.) 

coccinea 

fulgida 

purpurea 

rosea 


odorata; 


J 


floribunda. 


283, Pyramidalis 


(fig.75. Ff.) 
Radiata — 

Phe ate) 

Jig. 13. a. 
Retorta (fig. 68. g.) 
Rupestris 
Savillea 
Sebana.aurantia 
lutea 
nana 
Solandra 
Taxifolia (fig.70. e.) 
Templea 
Tenuiflora alba 
Triceps 
Vernix 
coccinea 
Verticillata 
Vestita alba 

(fig. 67. h.) 
coccinea 
fulgida 
purpurea. 
Viridiflora 


Cape Heaths flowering in November and December. 373 


cemua. leucanthera. tetralix. ‘ cubica,; 


nudiflora. flexuosa. latifolia. carnea 


Ericas flowering in November. 


Acuminata (69. h.) Cupressina Mammosa (65. g.) Sebana aurantia 
Aitonia (fig. 69. d.) Denticulata Mucosa (fig. 78, ) lutea 
Archeria ( fig.66. e.) Droseroides Mutabilis » nana 
Ardens (jig. 71. b.) Exsurgens Oppositifolia Serratifolia 
Aspera carnea Ovaleflora (fig. 65. f.) 
Assurgens —— major Pedunculata Solandra 
Banksia purpurea Filamentosa Pinea Sordida 
Bowieana (fig. 75. g.) Przestans Taxifolia (fig. 70.e.) 
Caffra Flava Princeps (fig. 68. e.) Templea 
Calycina Formosa Pubescens major Tenella 
Carinata Gracilis Pulchella - Tenuiflora alba 
Cerinthoides (68. .) Hirta Pyramidalis Triceps 

magna Imbricata (fig. 75. f.) Vernix E 
Coccinea Lambertia Radiata — coccinea 
Colorans ( fig. 67. c.) Laxa 285, Ralliformis blanda Verticillata 
Comosa rubra 284. Leea Ramentacea _ Vestita alba 
Concava Leucanthera (fig. 73. a.) ~ (fig. 67. h.) 
Concinna (fig.67. 6.) (fig. 74. b.) Regerminans coccinea 
Concolor superba Longipedunculata Retorta (jig. 68: g.) ——- purpurea 
Cruenta ( fig. 65. h.) (fig. 75. b.) Rupestris 2 Viridiflora. 
Cubica minor Lutea Scabriuscula 
ciliaris. longipedunculata. vagans. arbuscula. 


Ericas flowering in December. 


Absinthoides Ardens (jig. 71. 6.) Caffra Cerinthoides magna 
Acuminata (fig. 69. #.) Aspera Calycina Colorans (fig. 67. c.) 
Archeria (fig. 66, e.) Assurgens Canaliculata Comosa rubra 
Arctata Bandonia Carinata ~  Concinna (fig. 67. 5.) 


374 Collection of Hardy Heaths. 

Concolor superba Lambertia Pubescens major Sessiliflora (claveflora, 
Cupressina Laxa —— minima Andr. 66. a.) 
Denticulata Leucanthera (fig. 74. 6.) Pulchella Solandra 

Exsurgens Longipedunculata Pyramidalis (jig. 75. f) Sordida 

Filamentosa (fig 75. g.)_ (fig. 75. b.) Radiata Sparsa 

Flava Lutea Ramentacea (fig. 73. a.) Taxifolia (fig. 70. e.) 
Floribunda (jig. 73. j.) _Mammosa (fig. 65. g.) Regerminans Templea 

Formosa Mucosa (fig. 73. f.) Retorta (fig. 68. g.) Tenella / 

Furfurosa Mutabilis ~ Rollisson’s blanda Transparens 

Gracilis Oppositifolia Rubens (fig. 70. f-) Triceps 

Grandinosa (fig. 72. 6.) Ovaliflora Savillea Triumphans (fig. 70. h.) 
Hirta Pellucida Scabriuscula Vernix 

Hispidula Pinea Sebana aurantia coccinea 
Ignescens (jig. 65. c.) | Preestans — lutea Versicolor (fig. 65. 3.) 
Imbricata Princeps (fig. 68. e.) Serpyllifolia Vestita purpurea (67. /.) 


Serratifolia (fig. 65. f.) Viridescens 

The above display is formed of 285 species and varieties, 
which are numbered to show of what sorts this display is com- 
posed. Inan ornamental point of view, the growth of plants 
in beds or borders of earth is far preferable to growing them in 
pots, and the genus Erica we think might be so grown, covered 
for five or six months in the year with a movable glass roof, at 
less expense, less trouble and risk than usual, and superior 
beauty. We do not allude to those movable roofs, where, 
when the sashes are taken off, the rafters, walls, and flues re- 
main to disfigure the scene. ‘To these there can be no objections 
in kitchen-gardens; but in ornamental scenery the roof should 
be so completely removed as to leave no traces of its appear- 
ance. ‘This might easily be done by supporting it on movable 
iron props, which might fit into fixed sockets, and by having 


the flues under the paths. 


For six months of the year they 


would appear like a clump of hardy shrubs, and if they were 


planted on a rocky slope, or the surface arran 


according 


not overdone, the illusion would be greater. 


Monthly List of Hardy Heaths which have been in Flower in 
the open Air in the Tooting Nursery. The Heights of the 
tall growing Sorts given in Feet. 


JANUARY. 
Carnea (fig. 74. h.) 
herbacea 

FEBRUARY. 
8, Arborea, 5 

Carnea (fig. 74. h ) 

herbacea 
MARCH. 

Arborea, 5 
4, Australis, 4 

Carnea (fig. 74. h.) 
herbacea 
5. oR 4 

~ Th. 2. 
fe ORTL. 

Arborea, 5 

Australis, 4 

Carnea (jig. 74. h.) 
herbacea 

Mediterranea, 4. 

(fig. 74°.) ~ 
6. Scoparia, 6 
MAY 


1, 
2. 


Arborea, 5 
Australis, 4 
Mediterranea, 4 
(fig. 74. 3.) 
Scoparia, 6 


7. Umbellata 
8. Viridi-purpurea 
JUNE. 


Arborea, 5 
Australis, 4 
9. Cinerea alba 
L rubra 
- Multiflora alba 


————- rubra 
13. Polifolia _ 
nana 
Scoparia, 6 
15. Tetralix alba 
rubra 
Umbellata 
Viridi-purpurea 
17. Vulgaris a 


18. alba 

19. decumbens 

20. flore pleno 

21. ———— spuria 

22, variegata 
JULY. 


Australis, 4 
23. Ciliaris (fig. 75. a.) 
Cinerea alba 
rubra 
Multiflora alba 


Multiflora rubra 
Polifolia 


24. Vagans alba(fig.75.c.) 


25. 


26. 


rubra 
(fig. 75. c.) 

Viridi-purpurea 

Vulgaris 


alba 
decumbens 
flore pleno 
spuria 
variegata 
AUGUST. 
Ciliaris (fig. 75. a.) 
Cinerea alba 
rubra 
Multiflora alba 
— rubra 
Polifolia_ 


nana 
Stricta, 2 
Tetralix alba 
rubra 
Vagans alba 


ged somewhat 


@ to the native soils and situations of the plants, but 


Vagans rubra 
Viridi-purpurea 
Vulgaris 
alba 
decumbens 
flore pleno 
spuria 
variegata 
SEPTEMBER. 
.Ciliaris (fig. 75. a.) 
Cinerea alba 
rubra 
Multiflora alba 
rubra 


Polifolia 


Multiflora alba 
rubra 


Stricta, 2 
NOVEMBER. 

Multiflora alba 

rubra 

Stricta, 2 
DECEMBER. 

Carnea 

herbacea 


Number of species and varieties twenty-six. 


Gardening in Poland. 375 


Art. III. On the present State of Gardening in Poland. By 
W. P. A. M. Kirarewsx1, Professor of Chemistry in the 
University of Warsaw. 


Dear Sir, 

I nave read with much pieasure the first number of your 
valuable Magazine. At your request, I promised to give you 
some account of the present state of the art of gardening in 
my country; and the few following notices are all that I am 
able to communicate. 

The love of gardening has been in all times very remark- 
able in Poland, and this art has made great progress during 
the last ten years; but the culture of plants has made more 
improvement within that period than landscape gardening, or 
the tasteful laying out of pleasure-grounds. Kitchen-garden- 
ing has been brought to such a degree of perfection, and is 
so generally practised, that the metropolis of the country, as 
well as the other towns, is provided with the utmost variety 
of the finest vegetables in every season. As to the culture of 
fruit trees, there are some private gardeners of the first-rate 
talents, and especially those of Warsaw and Cracow, whose 
endeavours are directed exclusively to the forcing of fruit 
trees, and they know well the culture of the vine; some of 
them are also very famous for the culture of the pine-apple. 

But most money is spent on flower-gardens, and for the 
culture of rare exotic plants in hot-houses and green-houses. 
The taste for this part of gardening is very general among 
the richer classes of society, and the ladies especially are very 
fond of it. In the culture of useful plants, and the dissemin- 
ation of that kind of knowledge among the lower classes of 
society, the Count Wodzicki’s patriotic and liberal endea- 
vours are generally acknowledged by his countrymen. His 
large garden at Neidzwiedz, near Cracow, and the Gardener’s 
Dictionary published by him, bear witness to his merit in this 
department. ; 

The proprietors of large estates in Poland, are generally 
very ambitious of possessing parks and beautiful pleasure- 
grounds. In laying out new residences, much care is em- 
ployed, and the continual improvements made in this depart- 
ment testify the taste of our nobility. It is well known, that 
most of them spend a considerable time in their early life, in 
visiting foreign countries, and especially England, Italy, 
France, and Germany; where they learn to admire pic- 
turesque scenery. ‘The following are residences with gardens 
and grounds laid out on English principles :— 


376 Country Seats in Poland. 


Pulawy, (fig. 76.) the principal seat of the family of Prince 
Czartoryski, is situated on the Vistula, about 70 English 


miles distant from Warsaw. ‘This park may be compared, in 
every respect, to the most beautiful specimens of scenery in 
England and Germany. It is to the indefatigable endeavours 
and skilful taste of the Princess Isabella Czartoryska that we 
are indebted for this establishment. She has also published 
a useful work on landscape gardening. (Ency. of Gard. 
§ 7697.) 

Arcadia, a seat of the late Princess Radziwill, is a very 
remarkable place, about 30 miles from Warsaw. 

Villa Nuova (fig.'77.), near Warsaw, the ancient seat of 
King John III., now belonging to the family of Potocki, and 
Belvedere, near Warsaw, are alco very handsome. 


ars Pas 
see 


ERLUAN 


Country Seats in Poland. 377 


Lazenki (fiz. 78.), a palace near Warsaw, with grounds 
78 


well described in your Encyclopedia of Gardening, and 
which eyery stranger allows to be most beautiful. 

- Moncoteau, and Natolia-Gucin, are not far from Warsaw, 
and very beautiful. ‘There may be added the gardens of Ma- 
riejswice, Konskie, Skierniewice, Bobresck, Woyslawice, all 
of a rare beauty. . 

In what relates to the culture of forest trees, the manage- 
ment of natural woods, &c. we are entirely indebted to the 
enlightened endeavours of Count Louis Plater; who has also 
established a school of Forest Culture in Warsaw. 

The large and beautiful botanic garden belonging to the 
University of Warsaw, under the direction of M. Schubert, 
Professor of Botany, possesses not only a very large number 
of species (about 10,000), but contains a collection of fruit 
and forest trees. 

To these remarks, I may add one respecting the Larix 
communis. There are, in several parts of Poland, many 
woods of this tree, but particularly in the private forest be- 
longing to the Count Soldyk, on the estate of Chlewisk. 
On this estate there are trees so old and large, that some 
years ago the French government sent M. le Chevalier Jean 
de Reverseau to purchase a great number of them for the 
French navy. Each tree, cleared of the bark, was 84 feet 
long, and 36 inches in diameter at the broad, and 18 inches 
at the small end, Twenty pair of oxen were necessary for 
drawing each of these trees out of the forest. It is, perhaps, 
also not unworthy of notice, that there have been made some 
trials, upon the use of the leaves of pines of several species for 


378 On diseased Elm Trees. 


tanning leather, and that they appear to be applicable for 
that purpose. , 

I am, dear Sir, &c. 
Warsaw, May, 1826. KiTAIEWSKI. 


The engravings with which we have illustrated Professor 
Kitaiewski’s interesting communication, are from sketches 
taken by us in 1813. Other sketches from the same resi- 
dences and other places in Poland, will be found in our 
Encyclopzedias. — Cond. 


~ Art. 1V. On a Disease which has attacked certain Elm Trees 
~ in Camberwell Grove, Surrey. By a Constant Reader. 
Sir, 

My attention was excited some few months since by an 
advertisement which appeared in several London and provincial 
journals headed “ Diseased Elm Trees,” and requesting persons | 
having trees visited with a disease similar to that briefly described 
in the advertisement, to communicate with the advertiser, as it 
appeared that a suit in Chancery was depending thereon. 
Feeling considerable interest in whatever concerns forest tim- 
ber and vegetable physiology, and wondering how such a 
matter could have got before the Court ef Chancery, I took 
some pains to ascertain the nature of the disease to which 
the attention of the public was thus attracted; and as the sub- 
ject is of importance, and the circumstances not altogether un- 
interesting, I avail myself of the opportunity afforded by your 
excellent Magazine of laying before your readers the result 
of my enquiry; the publication of it may possibly save some of 
them a suit in Chancery. For much of the detail I ought to 
say that I am indebted to the gentleman who inserted the 
advertisement, but of the facts I have satisfied myself. _ 

It appears, that in July, 1825, some newly established Gas 
Company at Bankside began to lay down mains and erect 
posts, in the usual way, at Camberwell, in Surrey, preparatory 
to the lighting the village with gas; and that on the 23d of 
August following, the whole village was, for the first time, illu- 
mined with that elegant and unequalled light. Amongst the 
rcads thus lighted was Camberwell Grove; a place well known 
to Cockneys as the reputed spot where George Barnwell is 
said to have murdered his uncle; and toa higher class of per- 
sons as the hospitable residence, for many years, of the cele- 


On a Disease in Elm Trees. 379 


brated Dr. Lettsom. To those who do not know the place of 
which I am speaking, it is necessary to say that Camberwell 
Grove is a road not quite two-thirds of a mile in length, 
forming a gentle ascent to its summit, about 30 feet wide, and 
having a row of trees on each side, consisting of elms, limes, 
poplars, and chesnuts of considerable age and size, closely 
planted, especially towards the upper part of the road. In the 
month of October following, a period cf about six weeks from 
the introduction of the gas, several of the elm trees were 
noticed to have lost or been stripped of their bark, for about 
three, four, and. five feet from the base of the trunk; and the 
evil appearing to increase, a gentleman residing on the spot, 
interested in the preservation of the trees, offered a reward of 
two guineas for the apprehension of the persons supposed to 
have thus mischievously barked them. Several months, how- 
ever, passed by, and though watchmen were employed to sit up 
during the night, no persons were discovered. Still the evil 
was not diminished; the bark fell, or was stripped off, in 
greater quantities than before, and almost every person who 
walked up the Grove, or was attracted by the novelty of the 
circumstance, undesignedly added somewhat to the mischief, 
by ripping off a little bit in wantonness, or a curious desire 
to discover the cause. ‘The trees presented a lamentable ap- 
pearance, and were the subject of general conversation in the 
neighbourhood. Some time in January, in the present year, 
a bill was filed in Chancery against the Gas Company by the 
gentleman before alluded to, a solicitor in large practice, and 
an application made to the Court for an injunction to restrain 
the Company from laying on or conducting any gas through 
the mains laid down by them in Camberwell Grove. The ap- 
plication was founded upon affidavits of gardeners and others, 
who deposed that, in their opinion, the disease in the trees 
was occasioned by the escape of the gas from the mains, which 
impregnated the earth and poisoned the roots. ‘The applica- 
tion, when made, was postponed, upon the ground of some 
defect in the plaintiff’s proceedings, for a few days, and ulti- 
mately renewed during several periods, in which a great num- 
ber of scientific men were consulted, who made affidavits as 
to their belief in the cause of the disease; and the matter was 
finally brought before the Vice-Chancellor on the 8th of April 
last, and the injunction refused; but leave was given to the 
plaintiff to bring an action, by which he might establish, 
before a jury, the alleged connection between the introduc- 
tion of the gas and the disease in question, if any such really 
existed; and also to decide another question as to the right 
Vou. I. No. 4. DD 


380 On a Disease in Elm Trees. 


of the trustees for lighting the village to lay down the mains 
in the Grove under their act of Parliament. Upon this ques- 
tion I need not trouble your readers, as it is of no public inte- 
rest. I am informed that no such action has been brought, 
and, moreover, that the plaintiff has subsequently moved to 
dismiss his bill, which can only be done upon payment of 
costs. From this cireumstance, and from the legal ability 
and well-known perseverance of the plaintiff in all cases 
where success is attainable by talents, such as he is admitted 
to possess, I am justified in concluding that he satisfied him- 
self, as, I confess, I am satisfied, and all those with whom I 
have conversed, that there was no connection whatever be- 
tween the introduction of the gas and the decortication of 
these old elm trees. I have, by permission of the solicitor 
for the defendants, perused carefully all the depositions, as 
well those upon which the application for an injunction was 
founded as those upon which it was resisted. In support of 
the application, the reasoning that appears most powerfully to 
have influenced the judgment of the deponents, is the mere 
fact of the coincidence, as to time, between the introduction of 
the gas and the appearance of the disease. I am informed 
that, since the application to the Court, an individual has been 
found, who noticed the partial decortication of the elms prior 
to the introduction of the gas: this, though it would have 
settled the question between the contending parties, had it 
been known in time, does not elucidate the nature or cause 
of the disease, both of which are interesting to all whose ob- 
servation has been directed to the constitution of plants. 

By two of the gentlemen who were consulted by the defend- 
ants, I find the decortication of the trees was attributed to the 
ravages of the little insect called the Scolytus destructor, whose 
amazing powers of destruction are so ably treated of by Mr. 
W.S. Ms Leay in his Report upon the state of the elms in St. 
James’s and Hyde Parks.* The ultimate result is cer tainly 
the same, for in both diseases the bark falls off and the tree 
perishes, and there are a great number of trees in Camber- 
well Grove unquestionably infested and destroyed by this 
astonishing little insect; and even at this moment, if you strip 
off a piece of the bark. you will find myriads of larvze feed- 
ing on the soft inner bark, the surface of which presents to 
the view (as described by Mr. M‘Leay) innumerable impres- 
sions, which may be compared to large and broad scolopendre, 


* See Edinourgh Philosophical Journal, No. xxi. July 1. 1824, art. xii. ; 
also No-cccvi. of Tilloch’s Philosophical Magazine for October, 1823, 
art. li. signed “ Dendrophilos.” 


On a Disease in Elm Trees. 381 


and the outer bark is perforated with innumerable holes, as 
with a brad-awl. 

But still, I confess, it appears to me, as well from the other 
affidavits and depositions upon the subject as from my own 
observation, that the elm trees, in the present case, are visited 
with a distinct and independent disease; which I learn was 
prevalent last summer, and may vet be seen in many other 
parts of the country where no gas has ever been, and where 
the Scolytus does not appear to have been noticed. 

In Camberwell Grove the mains were laid close to the 
trees, on the left-hand side of. the road as you ascend, and 
equally near to all the trees on that side, and yet the elms 
on the right-hand side, at a distance of thirty feet from the 
mains, were equally and in the same manner affected, and 
no other species of tree was thus visited. The disease is 
thus described by Mr. Lindley, the garden secretary of 
the Horticultural Society, in his deposition: “ The outer 
or indurated bark of such of the said elm trees as present 
the unhealthy appearance aforesaid is detached and easily 
separable from the inner bark thereof, and very considerable 
quantities have fallen or been stripped off from the said trees. 
The inner bark exhibits the appearance of considerable extra- 
vasation of the juices having taken place, thereby giving to 
the surface thereof an unusually humid appearance, which, in 
the opinion of the deponent, indicates an approach to putre- 
faction; and, in one instance, the extravasation of the juices 
had become so copious as to flow from the tree in the form of 
foul putrid matter.” Mr. Lindley then proceeds to detail at 
length the arguments and reasonings upon which he is con- 
vinced that the disease in question is in no way arising from, 
or connected with, the gas; and he makes it clear almost to 
demonstration, by an illustration of a particular case, that if 
the trees had really absorbed poisonous or deleterious matter, 
a general aridity would have been the result, in consequence 
of which the bark would have adhered more closely than usual 
to the wood, and no extravasation of the juices and decortic- 
ation, as in the case of the trees in Camberwell Grove. 1 
lament that I have not room to copy from his deposition the 
description of the manner in which the circulation of the sap 
of the tree takes place, from which he proves that the leaves 
and the ends of the branches, and not the trunk, would have 
been the first parts affected, supposing that the gas had exer- 
cised any specific influence upon the trees. He concludes by 
quoting from, and referring to, the works of several learned and 
able writers, who have treated upon these diseases as incident 

DD 2 


382 On a Disease n Elm Trees: 


to old elms, and known to botanists more than half a century 
since; particularly Duhamel du Monceau, in 1758, in his 
work entitled “La Physique des Arbres ;’ Dr. Carl Ludovic 
Willdenow, professor of natural history and botany, in the 
University of Berlin, who speaks of this disease under the 
name of “ carcinoma arborum;” M. Brisseau-Mirbel; the 
Reverend Patrick Keith; Professor Link; and many other 
writers of great consideration and authority. 

There are other affidavits, showing, as at Cheltenham, ihe 
innocence of gas, after having been aised for several years in 
the midst of the public walks, and close to the roots of the 
elms there, and pointing out the existence of the identical 
disease in many places where gas never was. 3 

Upon the whole, the nig, the reasonings, and opinions, 
adduced by a large number of first-rate men, appear to me 
so perfectly Gendinsiie that I conceive it would have: been 
impossible, had the case gone before a jury, to have doubted 
as to the result. 

I have myself since inspected some elms in the rookery at 
the arsenal at Woolwich, and in a field belonging to Earl 
Ferrars, at Bayswater, and in several of the gardens of the 
colleges at Oxford, and I find the disease the same, with this 
only lien ence, ae in Camberwell Grove, or the neighbour- 
hood, it is evident that there are persons who have an object 
m getting rid of the trees, as either injurious to health or 
building speculations, who have violently ripped off the bark, 
as it has become loosened by the diseased state of the tree. 
The trees are now certainly dying, although they budded and 
came into leaf apparently as strongly as their more healthy 
neighbours; and the present hot summer seems likely to 
complete what the heat of last year, aided by the drains and 
adjoining buildings, probably contributed to commence. 

It is by the communication of individual knowledge and 
experience that society, in the aggregate, is benefited, fond by 
giving place to communications of such experience, that the 
chon seis and intelligence of our gardeners will be raised. 

I have no other object in this communication, than the 
contributing my mite of information to the general stock, and 
I ought, perhaps, to apologise for having taken up so much of 
your valuable work. 

I am, &c. &c. 
A Constant READER. 
London, August 26. 1826. 


On a Disease tn Elm Trees. 883 


We have seen several of the affidavits alluded to, on beth 
sides of the question, conversed with four of the deponents, 
and examined the trees. Most of the depositions proceed on 
the supposition of the gas escaping from the pipes under 
ground, and being absorbed by the vessels of the roots; but 
one argues on the idea of the gas escaping in the atmosphere, 
and acting by contact with the parts injured. Some of the 
deponents, as Mr. Lindley, reason on physiological princi- 
ples; others, as Mr. Sinclair, from experience and obsery- 
ation; a third class decide empirically; and one gentleman 
experimentally. This last deponent, an eminent chemist, 
planted some sets of potatoes in natural soil, and some in soil 
impregnated with hydrogen gas, and found that those in the 
latter soil were some days later in appearing above ground 
than the others; however, they did appear, and. grew very 
well. 

That plants, like animals, may be poisoned by the absorption 
of deleterious substances, has been proved by M. T. Mar- 
cet (Gard. Mag. 89.): but that the disease in the bark of 
these elms is not owing to the absorption of poison, Mr. Lind- 
ley has satisfactorily deduced from the known facts, that the 
sap absorbed by the root of a tree ascends by the wood to the 
leaves, and there being changed into proper juice, analogous 
to the blood of animals, returns by the bark; consequently, 
in returning, it would first have affected the young shoots at 
the top of the tree, and on the extremities of the branches, 
before it could have injured the lower part of the trunk. 
That the disease is not owing to the presence of gas in the 
atmosphere is evident from the circumstance of neither the 
leaves of the elms, nor the flowers and tender shrubs close to 
that side of the road where the gas pipes are laid,. being in 
the slightest degree injured. What, then, is the cause of the 
disease ? Old age and the want of nourishment. ‘This is our 
decided opinion. The soil is thin, on a gravelly subsoil; the 
trees stand close together, and, consequently, the ground is 
completely filled with their roots. Already stinted in their 
growth, and beginning to decay, this process was accelerated 
by the dry summer of 1825, and by a series of excavations 
made in that year along one side of the avenue for a row of 
houses; which completely drained the gravelly stratum. 

The extravasation of the juices mentioned by Mr. Lindley, 
did not appear to us general, and the insects alluded to by our 
correspondent are found under the bark of most elm trees in 
a state of decay, and are to be considered as the consequences 

DD 3 


384 On budding Peaches on Almonds. 


of that process. In addition to the trees referred to, as simi- 
larly circumstanced with those at Camberwell Grove, may be 
mentioned a number at Lisson Grove, Paddington.—Cond. 


Art. V. Remarks, including the Results of some Experiments, 
on budding the Peach and Nectarine on Almond Stocks. By 
Mr. Wititiam Anperson, F.L.S. H.S. &c. Curator of the 
Botanic Garden, Chelsea. 


Dear Sir, 

A GarpENER’s Magazine was much wanted, and one con- 
ducted by you, who have been so much employed in the 
various practices of horticulture, cannot fail to be patronised 
by the gardeners, and become useful to the public. With this 
persuasion, we send you the following observations on the 
almond as a stock, which you may perhaps think worth a place 
in your pages. 

At an early period of our practice, it appeared strange that 
the almond was not employed as a stock for the peach; we 
enquired the reason amongst the nurserymen, but got no satis- 
factory answer. ‘This induced us, in the spring of 1815, to 
plant six-pennyworth of sweet almonds in ‘the vacant places 
on the wall of our little kitchen-garden here: some of these 
were strong enough by September following to take buds; but 
we waited to have several of the best sorts of peaches worked 
at the same time. In July and August, 1816, we budded 
twenty-eight of these stocks, with fifteen sorts of peaches, as 
follow :— 


Budded in 1816. Alive in 1826. Budded in 1816. Alive in 1826, 


2 Nobless (Noblest ?) 0 2 Téton de Venus - 0 
2 Karly Ann - + @ 2 Galande - - 0 
2 Late Admirable ~- 2 2 Red Magdalen - 0 
2 Violet hative - 0 2 Red Roman Nectarine- 1 
2 Royal George - 2 2 Newington Nectarine - 2 
2 Grimwood’s Royal 1 White Nectarine - 1 

George - - O 2 Red Magdalen Peach - 2 
2 Avant Rouge 2 1 Abricot Péche - 1 


Total puddeai: in 1816, 28; alive in 1826, 13. 


These buds succeeded as well as they usually do on any of 
the plum stocks. In 1817 they made very strong shoots. 
Our expectations were now raised very high, although one 
plant, on which was Grimwood’s Royal George, after perfecting 
its wood, dried up with its leaves on in October, when the sap 
was descending. This we thought might be owing to some 
evil at the root, as nothing appeared above ground to account 


On budding Peaches on Almonds. 385 


for the failure. In 1818 many of the sorts flowered and pro- 
duced larger fruit than the same kinds on plum stocks; the 
shoots were strong, and all promised well for a great crop the 
following year, About the end of September, however, five 
of the best trees began to decay, and by the middle of October 
they dried up, keeping their leaves on. ‘The remaining trees 
had now become fans of three feet radiation, with fine shoots. 
These ceased to elongate about the end of August, and after- 
wards they swelled the wood and flower buds. It should be 
observed, that the almond, left to itself, usually continues 
growing, even till checked by the frost of December. 

In 1819 we lost three fine trees, as in 1818; in 1820 we 
Jost but one tree; in 1821 we lost two trees; in 1822 we lost 
one; and in 1823 we thought the like misfortune was at an 
end, as the remaining twenty-one trees shed their leaves and 
flowered well in the spring of 1824, and all of them produced 
fruit less or more. Our reviving hopes were blasted, however, 
in October following, for then two fine large trees dried up 
with all their leaves on. In 1825 there was a great show of 
large flowers and plenty of fruit, but two of the remaining 
nineteen went off as on former years. 

A bud of the Moorpark apricot was inserted on one of these 
stocks in 1816, and produced fruit in 1820. It now covers 
about four yards of wall, and its fruit is larger, smoother, and 
better flavoured than when worked on the plum; but we are 
afraid it will be of short duration, for two years after budding, 
the almond stock, being about two feet high, became as rugged 
as an aged apricot tree, and lately we have discovered that 
one side of it is quite rotten. The stocks of the peaches and 
nectarines, the white nectarine excepted, which is become very 
rough, are as smooth barked as those which are not worked. 

From the above are we to conclude that peaches will not 
thrive many years on almond stocks? or are we to wait ten 
years longer, to know how many of these remaining thirteen 
trees are in a thriving state at twenty years’ growth? In the 
meantime, you may, perhaps, hear the result of other experi- 
ments on the same subject. 

The trees alive are denoted by the numbers following the 
names in the list. ‘There are twelve of the almonds which 
have never been worked at all; these have been all along, and 
still are, in perfect health and vigour. 

I am, dear Sir, yours, &c. 
Wa. ANDERSON. 
Chelsea Garden, March 11. 1826. 


DD 4 


386 On the Culture of Cyclamen Persicum. 


In France the peach and nectarine are most commonly 
worked on almond stocks, and both there and in Germany they 
are found to do well on such stocks when the soil is deep and 
dry. When the soil is not deep, or where it is wet bottomed, 
they prefer the damson or Julien plum stocks. Apricots are 
also frequently grafted on almond stocks, and found to do 
quite well. See the Bon Jardinier for 1826, articles Pécher, 
_Amandier, and Abricotier. If we might suggest an opinion as 
to the cause of the failure of Mr. Anderson’s trees, we should 
say, — as the soil is loose and deep, might it not be owing to 
the wet bottom? They are within a few yards of the Thames, 
which rises within two feet of the ground’s surface every spring 
tide. — Cond. 


Arr. VI. On the Culture of the Cyclamen Persicum. (fig. 79.) 
By Mr. Joun Wiimort, F. HLS. Isleworth. 
Sir, 

Turs beautiful bulb appears to have been introduced 
about the year 1731 from the island of 
Cyprus; and though it has been nearly a 
century in our possession, yet the general 
culture certainly cannot be sufficiently _\ 
understood, as we seldom find it in{ . 
any thing like perfection, being gene-\« 
rally a weak plant, both in leaf and *“ 
flower, with seldom more than twenty 
blossoms at a time on the bulb. My ob- 
ject for thus addressing you is to see it 
more extensively cultivated; and as you 
profess, in your Magazine, the ornamental 
as well as the useful part of horticulture, 
I trust that the observations I am about 
to make relative to the culture of this elegant plant may not 
be unacceptable to my brother gardeners, or considered a pre- 
sumption on my part, or a digression from my particular de- 
partment in the profession. 

_ The method generally pursued with this handsome bulb is 
to suffer it to flower in the green-house, and, at the latter end 
of the summer and autumn months, it is usually put away 
in some dry place, and frequently the pots turned on one side 
in a dry state, together with the Ixias, Amaryllises, &c. and not 
suffered to vegetate until the following spring, when the bulb 


On the Culture of Cyclamen Persicum. 387 


is frequently found as dry as possible. It then undergoes the 
same treatment as in the preceding year, after a renovation by 
moisture, heat, &c. Nature having performed its office, it is 
again assigned to the drying system. 

Being extremely partial to this fine-scented bulb, I turned 
my attention to its propagation and culture, and with that 
success which astonished every one who saw it. At one time 
I had some hundreds of pots, and so uncommonly luxuriant 
was their growth, that an eminent botanist, one of your cor- 
respondents, once asked me what plants they were. 

As this plant blossoms early I would advise assisting it with 
a little heat. Select a few pots, and place them in the stove 
in the beginning of February ; they will soon show their blos- 
som; remove them, by degrees, into their old’ quarter, the | 
green-house, and select only those plants that are scented, 
some being much more so than others; they will soon form 
their seed-vessels, if assisted with plenty of air, and, when you 
find the seed sufficiently ripe, sow it immediately in pans. 
The plants will appear in the autumn; let them remain in 
the green-house to about the beginning of May; and, in re- 
moving the plants from the pans, you will find they have 
formed bulbs about the size of a pea, and some as large as a 
hazel-nut. Prepare a bed for their reception by digging and 
raking the soil to a fine mould, and cover the same over with 
about two inches of sifted loam, leaf mould, or rotten dung, 
with a mixture of sandy peat. Plant the bulbs six inches 
apart from each other, and let them be kept covered, either 
with hand-glasses, which at that season can be spared, or with 
hot-bed sashes, to protect them from the cold and probably 
frosty nights, and, in the daytime, admit what air is required, 
according to the state of the weather. About the middle of 
summer, when you apprehend no danger from the frosty 
nights, &c. the glass may be taken away, as the plants will 
require no farther care than sufficiently watering them, if 
the season proves a dry one, and as often as occasion may 
require. 

At the time you remove the green-house plants into the 
house let the cyclamen be taken up carefully and potted, one 
bulb in a small pot. Fit the pot to the size of the plant, and 
be careful not to place a small plant in a large pot. ‘The pot 
No. 60. for small ones, and the No. 48. for the larger, will be 
sufficient ; and, if a fine growing summer succeed, some of 
the bulbs will be two inches in diameter, and produce as much 
blossom as a plant two years old by the drying system. The 
soil I made use of was loam, leaf mould, and dung, with some 


388 On the Aphis Lanigera. 


sand or bog earth, and plenty of that white sharp sand, which 
is to be found in the bog soil of Wimbledon Common ; the pro- 
hibition from taking which must be universally acknowledged 
as a great injury, not only to that highly respectable class the 
nurserymen around our metropolis, but to private gentlemen 
and botanists of every description. 
«. By this mode of cultivation a stock of that beautiful plant 
can. easily be raised; and as time can be saved in the cultiv- 
ation without any additional expense or trouble, I trust I shall, 
in a short time, see it growing generally with that luxuriance 
which I have often observed with pleasure in my own garden, 
where I have frequently counted from fifty to eighty fine, 
strong, expanded blossoms from a bulb two years old, growing 
in a forty-eight-sized pot. If you consider these observations 
worthy insertion in your useful publication, they are much at 
your service. 

Iam, dear Sir, &c. 

Joun Wi.Mot. 

Isleworth, April, 1826. . 


Art. VII. Some Account of an Attempt to arrest the Ravages 
of the Aphis lanigera, or American Blight, on Fruit Trees. 
By T. C. Huppiestone, Esq. F.H.S.  ~ 

Sir, 

Ir the following account of an unsuccessful attempt to 
arrest the ravages of the woolly aphis, should be deemed worth 
of a place in the pages of your Magazine, I should feel obliged 
by its insertion; and it may perhaps be a means of attract- 
ing the attention of scientific and practical men to the rapid 
progress of the insect. In the spring of the year 1825, my 
attention was first attracted to the state of some old apple 
trees in my garden, by observing, on the decayed parts of 
the trunks, an appearance of cotton, which, upon a closer 
examination, I discovered to proceed from a small insect, 
which I immediately recognised as the woolly aphis, or 
American blight. Upon referring to the pages of your valuable 
Encyclopedia of Gardening, second edition, I found that 
the best methods there recommended of destroying it, were 
“* thoroughly cleaning with a brush and cold water, together 
with amputation when it has been some time at work :”-—--“ but 
this will not do unless resorted to at an early stage of the 
progress.” I therefore immediately began to clean out the 
decayed places with a sharp-pointed stick, and for some time 


Caterpillars, Ants, Worms, &c. 389 


I kept the insect under very well, but it soon outstripped my 
exertions, and established itself on the branches; so I deter- 
mined to let the fruit ripen, and attack my enemy in his 
' quarters before the commencement of winter; and finding 
that the insect existed upon the sap alone, I naturally con- 
cluded that if I could case the stems and branches of the 
trees with any thin substance, I should succeed in putting an 
end to the progress of the insect. In pursuance of my plan, 
at the latter end of October, I ordered my gardener to pro- 
cure some quick-lime and mix it with water, and then directed 
him to whitewash the trees with it, and lay it on pretty thick 
upon the stems and larger branches: he obeyed my instruc-~ 
tions to the letter; the trees were completely cased in lime. 
The winter season passed, spring came; the trees were covered 
as usual with abundance of blossoms, for they are yet excel- 
lent bearers, and I was rejoicing at the success of my experi- 
ment; but I soon discovered that it had completely failed, for 
an abundance of the insects were found by me, even where 
the lime was thickest, and are even now, while I am writing, 
still upon the trees, especially on this year’s shoots. But I 
intend to try one other experiment at the close of the autumn ; 
and as some of my friends were anxious to know the result 
of this first experiment, I thought that the best method was 
to communicate the result to you for insertion in the widely 
circulated Gardener’s Magazine. 
I have the pleasure to remain, Sir, &c. 
Tuos. C. HuppLeEsToneE. 
Newark on Trent, August 1. 1826. 


Art. VIII. Recipe for composing a Liquid for effectually 
destroying Caterpillars, Ants, Worms, and other Insects. By 
Mr. James Burces, Gardener to the Reverend Richard 
Lane, of Coffleet, Devonshire. 

Sir, 

I wave perused the first, second, and third numbers of 
your excellent work, the Gardener’s Magazine, with much 
gratification, but have not met with any thing for effectually 
destroying insects. Permit me, therefore, to inform you of 
a composition of a liquor for destroying caterpillars, ants, 
worms, and other insects. Take black soap one pound and 
half, sulphur vivum one pound and half, nux vomica two 
ounces, mushrooms of any kind two pounds, rain or river 


390 On destroying the Green Fly, &c. 


water twelve gallons. Divide the water into equal parts: put 
six gallons into a barrel (which should be only used for this 
purpose) ; put the soap in the barrel with the water, let it 
be well stirred till it is quite dissolved; then add to it the 
mushrooms, after they have been slightly bruised : take the 
remaining six gallons of water, put it into a kettle to boil; 
put the whole quantity of sulphur into a coarse cloth, tie it 
up and fasten to it a stone, that it may sink to the bottom of 
the kettle; put the nux vomica likewise into the kettle to 
boil; thirty minutes is the time it should be kept boiling 
keep it well stirred with a stick, and let the sulphur be el 
squeezed out, that it may unite to the lather. The water, 
when taken off the fire, is to be poured into the barrel with 
the before-mentioned soap and mushroom-water. It is to be 
well stirred every day with a stick, until it gets incorporated 
altogether, and the mixture becomes fetid; it is necessary to 
stop the barrel while you are stirring it. In using it, sprinkle 
on the ground, or eject it with a common syringe. When all 
the water has been made use of, the sediment should be 
thrown into a pit and covered over, lest any thing eat of it. 
If you deem this receipt deserving a place in your valuable 
miscellany it is at your service. 
Iam, Sir, &c. 

James BurGEs. 

Coffleet, near Plympton, Devonshire, 
August 18. 1826. 


P.S. In a future letter I shall give a composition for fruit 


trees. J.B. 


Art. IX. A simple, effectual, and expeditious Mode of de- 
stroying the Green Fly and other Insects. By Mr. THomas 
M‘Laurin, Gardener, Bunny Park, Nottinghamshire. 

Sir, 

In the present dry season, so favourable to the production of 
green fly that their numbers are aimost unprecedented, the 
following method, which I practise, for their destruction, may 
perhaps not be unimportant to some readers of your valuable 
Magazine. 

I procure, from the tobacconist’s, liquor expressed from 
tobacco, to every gallon of which I add five gallons of water ; 


On the London Horticultural Society. 291 


this mixture I, with Read’s garden syringe, sprinkle over the 
trees, putting it on the finest rose, and being careful to wet all 
the leaves; this operation is performed only in the hottest 
sunshine, as the effect is then much greater than when the 
weather is dull. In this manner I have, this spring, with five 
gallons of liquor, reduced as above stated, cleaned seventeen 
peach and nectarine trees, twelve of which. average seventeen 
feet in length and twelve in height. The black glutinous 
insect, provincially called blight, so destructive to the cherry 
trees, is destroyed in the same way with equal facility. I 
have also found, upon trial, that the grubs which attack the 
apricot, may be destroyed almost instantly by immersing the 
leaves infested in this liquor. 

This is the cheapest: and most expeditious manner of de- 
stroying the above insects which has come within my know- 
ledge, and to those who have not seen the operation per- 
formed the effect produced is almost incredible. Roses, and, 
in fact, any plant liable to be infested with green fly, and 
situated where tobacco smoke cannot be used with effect, may 
be easily cleaned by dipping in or sprinkling with tobacco 
liquor, as circumstances may render most convenient. 

When trees have got so bad that their leaves are much 
curled, some of the flies, being protected within the curl, will 
escape: in this case more force must be applied to the 
syringe, and in a day or two the trees should be looked over 
again, and whatever part of the leaves has not been wetted 
should be washed with a painter’s brush; but a careful person 
will render this process unnecessary, by taking them in time. 

The liquor costs in Nottingham 1s. 2d. per gallon. 

I am, Sir, &c. 
Tuos. M‘Laurin. 
Bunny Park, Nottingham, May 22. 1826. 


EIDE TELS CP TRL ERS 


Arr. X. Remarks on the Affairs of the London Horticultural 
Society. By a Friend to Facts. : 


Sir, 

Upon perusing a letter in your last Number (Art. XV.), and 
your note respecting the Horticultural Society, I was struck 
with the concluding sentence of the latter, viz., “ We think it 
very questionable if the present system, embracing so many 
objects both at home and abroad, can be continued for many 


892 On the London Horticultural Soczety. 


years longer.’ ‘This point, I think, requires the immediate 
consideration of the Society. Few institutions, perhaps, have 
increased their numbers so rapidly ; notwithstanding which, 
the expenditure has exceeded the receipts; for it appears by 
the last report of the Garden Committee, that the Society has 
been obliged to raise a loan of 3000/. to complete works 
already in progress. Now, it never can be expected that sub- 
scribers will be added in such numbers as they have been. As 
a.Fellow of the Society, I know that fashion alone has in- 
duced many to join it, which has brought funds very useful to 
it in its infancy ; but this leader is too capricious to leave any 
solid grounds for hope that its votaries will continue to uphold 
the building they themselves have assisted to rear. It is self- 
evident too much has been aimed at to accomplish at once ; 
and I fear, should any cause deprive us of our active and 
energetic Secretary, it will be difficult to find a successor who 
will even maintain what he has established. A more gradual 
formation, and greater economy in the expenditure, would have 
been wise, therefore, on this account, as well as others. It is 
probable that half the quantity of land now rented would be 
sufficient for the attainment of all the really beneficial objects 
of the Society. ‘The members are not to apply for articles 
they can obtain of the nurserymen. Of what use, then, are 
the large quantities of such which are now grown by the 
Society ? and what becomes of the fruit and vegetables pro- 
duced in their garden, not a tithe of which appears at their 
meetings? As the Society wants funds, why not find a market 
for this, or grow less, and so reduce the expenses? These 
remarks I have heard from strangers who have occasionally 
visited the garden with me. Upon the principle of not sup- 
plying such articles as are grown at the nurseries, I think the 
Society might also exclude every thing they introduce when 
they have established it in the country, and so make room for 
other new fruits, vegetables, and plants. Upon the subject of 
sending out collectors, I differ with your correspondent. A 
Society with such means in their power, and objects in view, 
are benefiting the community greatly by so doing, as they 
so freely distribute what they obtain. He must likewise know 
that the Linnean Society has no garden. As to the establish- 
ment at Kew, the system there is not to distribute, but to 
retain all that is valuable within itself. There new plants live 
and die unseen except by a few favoured individuals; for if a 
visit is paid to the gardens, it is ten to one if you have a 
person to attend you who knows which they are, or is willing 
to point them out. The Horticultural Society has never 


On the London Horticuitural Society. 393 


attempted a scientific botanical collection; but, destitute as the 
neighbourhood of London is of one that is usefully open to 
the public, I should not regret their doing it. 

The observation in your correspondent’s letter respecting 
the admission of strangers, induces me to believe he is un- 
acquainted with the facility afforded. A Fellow may introduce 
one when he visits the garden himself, or he may obtain a 
ticket for a friend by application to the office in Regent Street. 
Indeed, a stranger, personally applying, will have one granted ; 
and it is only to those who have subscribed ten pounds and 
upwards towards the formation of the garden, the privilege is 
allowed of filling up tickets; and which, although I do not 
possess it myself, I think very reasonable and proper. Upon 
the whole, I am greatly pleased with this Society with ail its 
faults, (and what is perfect?) and most earnestly wish it suc- 
cess. Still I always thought its expenditure enormous, even 
when there was only the small garden at Hammersmith: but 
experience, I doubt not, will lead to the adoption of more 
economical and mature arrangements ; the useless will be laid 
aside, and the important ones only followed. 

I am, Sir, &c. 
A Frienp To Facts. 
August 24. 1826. 


Art. XI. Observations on the Article of “ A Fellow of the 
Society,” relative to the Conduct and Administration of the 
London Horticultural Society. By a Friend to Discussion. 

Sir, 

Brine partial to gardening, and a friend to free discussion 
on every subject, I have thrown together a few observations 
on an article in your second Number on the Horticultural 
Society; and though I differ from the author of that paper as 
well as from you in some particulars, I trust to your candour 
and impartiality to insert them. 

The cause of all the evil, in your correspondent’s eyes, is 
the unpaid secretary; and certainly the first thing that must 
strike every one on this subject is, that it is very hard to do 
‘so much for the Society,” as both your correspondent and 
you allow that he has done, and yet get neither money nor 
thanks. But if your correspondent has ever belonged to any 
other society, he must know that the business of no society 
could go on without a secretary who had a deal of power, 


394 On the London Horticultural Society. 


and who took a very active part in promoting its objects. 
No man will take this active part without being paid in some 
way; either in money, influence, or celebrity. Influence 
is comparatively unbounded in extent, and consequently will 
carry some minds farther than money; money, if it does not 
do so much, is more convenient, because it is more manage- 
able. The best society which I have ever known is the 
Society of Arts. I have belonged to it nearly thirty years, 
_ and'I believe it has done more good than any other society of 
the kind. The late secretary, Mr.’Taylor, and the present ° 
one, Dr. Aikin, both paid in money, are examples of what 
the secretary of a society that has the public good for its 
object ought to be; and I have’ no hesitation in saying that I_ 
should prefer such a secretary for the Horticultural Society. 
It is not likely that with such a secretary the councils or 
committees would render themselves liable to such remarks 
as those of your correspondent, because the “ passive mood” 
would not be required as the payment of the secretary, and 
an “ active mood” would be required for their own credit. 
The Horticultural Society certainly attempts too much, and 
in several things have always appeared to me to mistake the 
means for the end, and to be more anxious for display at 
their meetings, and in the garden, than for benefiting the - 
country by the spread of useful knowledge or the mtroduction 
of new fruits or plants. The style in which their printed 
Transactions are got up is, I think, unsuitable for those who 
ought to be the principal readers of such a work; and I know 
they have given rise to an opinion, which I have frequently 
heard expressed, that the Society confined their views to 
improving the gardens of the rich. I like the Transactions of 
the Caledonian Horticultural Society much better, and I am 
- told they have done more good to the great mass of society in 
the North than ours have done in the South. The London 
Horticultural Society, in many things, appear to prefer the 
most extravagant means of attaining their objects; we see this 
not only in their immense garden and expensive volumes, but 
in their proposal, noticed in your first Number, to publish the 
new plants which flower in the garden in an expensive work 
of their own. That they have a right to do so no one will 
deny; but would it not be more in the spirit of a society 
having the public prosperity in view, to publish their new 
plants in the botanical works already existing? I do not 
make the same. objection to their proposed publication on 
fruits, though I should still prefer the fruits coming out as a 
part of the regular Transactions of the Society, instead of 


On the London Horticulturai Society. 395 


multiplying extravagant publications, not of use adequate to 
the expense. 

I differ from your correspondent on the subject of the 
Society’s sending out botanical collectors; in my opinion such 
can only be sent out by a joint purse, and as far as I am able 
to judge, this part of the business of the Horticultural Society 
has been better managed than any thing they have done. 
Had they confined themselves to this, and an experimental 
garden about twice the size of that at Hammersmith, I feel 
convinced they would have done much more good than ever 
they are likely to do with a garden of thirty acres to keep up ; 
and to keep up for what? Certainly, as your correspondent 
observes, not as an example cf a good plan. What then-— 
to prove fruits? ‘That could have been done, as you observe, 
in very little space. 

I trust, however, that the evils of this Society are not yet 
pastremedy. Only let a system of retrenchment and economy 
immediately take place, and let the outgoings not exceed 
three-fourths of the present income. Unless this is done, I : 
predict that, in a few years, the consequences will be ruinous 
to the Society. Only conceive the tide of its popularity, now 
at the full, to be turned! Look at the expenses, as com- 
pared with the receipts, and say how long such a system can 
goon. As to finishing the garden on the plan contemplated, 
with all the hot-houses, dwelling-houses, lodges, &c., that I 
think entirely out of the question. Would 10,000/., in addi- 
tion to the sum already. expended, finish it? No! Would 
an additional 20,000/. finish it? You hesitate! Suppose it 
were finished for that sum, will the advantages to the public 
be adequate to the expense? If the garden could be finished 
by subscriptions of the surplus incomes of the rich, certainly 
in that case I have nothing to say ; but if the money is to be 
borrowed and repaid, or bestowed by the government, I as 
a Fellow of the Society, and the public as taxed for the gift, 
have a right to speak. I cannot help indeed regretting with 
your correspondent, that with the large income and very 
handsome subscriptions it should have been thought necessary 
either to borrow or to beg; and having both borrowed and 
begged, I do deplore the circumstance that with such means 
so little has been done; or rather so much done to so little: 
purpose. 

But your correspondent only hints at the assistance of 
government. If he means a loan from government to be 
repaid by the Society, why not borrow from individuals ? It 
he means a gift, I for my part have a better opinion of minis- 

Vou. I. No. 4. i EE 


396 On Rheum palmatum as a Culinary Rhubarb. 


ters than to believe them capable of such a thing, at any 
time, and more especially in times like the present. How 
many societies would not be entitled to the bounty of govern- 
ment, before that bounty was conferred on one which has the 
refinement of luxury for its chief object ? 

These remarks, Mr. Conductor, are made in the hope that 
they will reach some of those members of the Society, who, 
like myself, wish to have it established on such a footing as 
that it may remain a permanent and useful institution; but 
who, unlike me, have influence and leisure to devote to the 
subject. 

I am a sincere well-wisher to the Society, and 
A Frienp To Discussion. 


August, 1826. 


Art. XII. Hints on the Superiority of the Rheum palmatum 
over the other Species of Rheum cultivated for Culinary Pur- 
poses. By AntHuony Topp Tuomson, Esq. M.D. F.L.S. 
H.S. &c. 


Dear Sir, 

It is a fact well known to you, that although the use of the 
footstalk of several species of rhubarb for the purposes of 
confectionery be of recent date, yet it has become so general, 
that many waggon loads of the plant are annually sent to 
Covent Garden market, not only by the individual who intro- 
duced the use of it, but by many other market gardeners. On 
making enquiry respecting the species of Rheum commonly 
cultivated for this purpose, I find that it is the wndulatum, and 
that the reason why the other species are not equally in re- 
quest, is owing to the greater productiveness of the undulatum. 
Now although, in the present state of the case, this may be 
an excellent reason with the market gardeners for cultivating 
the undulatum only, yet, if the public be made aware that the 
leaf-stalks of other species of rhubarb are better fitted for the 
purposes to which the plant, in this state, is applied, than those 
of the undulatum, I am satisfied that it would be for the 
interest of the cultivators to regard the quality of the article 
rather than the bulk of the produce. I have tried the foot- 
stalks of almost every species of rhubarb now cultivated in 
Great Britain, and find that those of the palmatum, or officinal 
rhubarb, are superior to those of all the others for making 
tarts. They are more succulent, less fibrous, and contain a 


On Rheum palmatum as a Culinary Rhubarb. 397 


much larger supply of the rheumic acid than those of the 
other species ; and, if it be less early in the season before they 
can be used, the roots continue to shoot forth leaves until a 
much later period of the year: indeed, if the flowering stem 
be cut down soon after it shows itself, the leaves are put forth 
so abundantly, and for so long a period, that the foorstalks 
may be obtained until autumn. It is true that the supply of 
fruits fit for baking during summer and in autumn render the 
cultivation of rhubarb for this purpose less necessary ; but I 
am one of those who think a good rhubarb tart a luxury at 
any season. 

From the observations which I have been enabled to make 
respecting the cultivation of the Rheum palmatum in market 
gardens, and even in the garden of the Horticultural Society, 
I am satisfied that the general stunted appearance of the 
plants, which is the chief objection made to this species, de- 
pends, in a great measure, on the stiffness of the soil and the 
too free exposure of the plant to light. We are informed by 
Dr. Rehman *, who had the opportunity of seeing this species 
of rhubarb growing in its native soil and climate, the decli- 
vities of the chain of mountains near the lake Kokouor in 
Tartary, that the soil is light and sandy; and the Bucharians 
assert that the best grows in the shade, on the southern sides 
of the mountains. I planted two roots of the R. palmatum 
five years since in the open part of my small garden, and 
found that whilst they continued fully exposed to the influence 
of the light of the sun, the leaves were moderately expanded 
only, and the footstalks not more succulent than those of the 
other species; but on removing them to a part shaded by 
rose bushes, the leaves which have been put forth in each suc- 
ceeding season have been very luxuriant. When in the best 
state for making tarts, the footstalks are green, slightly coloured 
with purple streaks, have a short fracture, and admit of the 
ready separation of the cuticle and cortex. It may be neces- 
sary to add, that although the root of this species of rhubarb 
be that which is employed medicinally, yet the footstalks have 
less of the flavour of the medicine than those of any of the 
other species. ae 

If the attention of market gardeners be directed to the cul- 
tivation of this species of rhubarb, and the public thereby 
abundantly supplied with it at a moderate price, I have no 
hesitation in predicting that it will supersede every other; and 


* Vide Mém. de la Société Impériale des Nat. de Moscow; 1809, tom. ii. 


p. 126. 
EE 2 


398 On the Treatment of Cactus speciosus, &c. 


your insertion of these hints will secure to you the hearty 
thanks of every one who, like myself, feels grateful for every. 
elegant addition which can be made to the harmless luxuries 
of the table at a small expense. 
I remain, dear Sir, yours, &c. — 
AntHony Topp THomson. 
91, Sloane Street, May 30. 1826. 


Art. XIII. On the Treatment of Cactus speciosus, speciosis= 
simus, and other ornamental succulent Plants. By Mr. W. 
J. SHENNAN, Gardener to Major Morison, at Gunnersbury 
Park. f1Cpe 


Sir, 

Ir you consider the following hints on flowering the Cactus 
speciosus, speciosissimus, and other succulents, worthy of a place 
in your Magazine, they are at your service. ‘Two years ago a 
friend of mine from the country was much surprised at seeing 
our Cactus ‘speciosus and speciosissimus flower so freely: he 
said that he had some large plants of both sorts, but they 
never flowered. : . 

I communicated to him the following observations on our 
method of growing and flowering them; and I have lately had 
the satisfaction of hearing from him that they have this year 
flowered remarkably well. The compost is loam and peat 
with a little lime rubbish. - We grow them in the stove until 
they get a pretty good size, or until we want them to flower, 
for they will flower at any age or size. In the month of June 
or July we turn them out of doors into a warm sheltered situ- 
ation, and perfectly exposed to the mid-day sun; and there 
they remain till we take in our tender green-house plants, when 
we remove them to a shelf, or airy situation, in the green-house 
for the winter. In the spring we remove them into the stove 
or forcing-house in succession, as we wish them to come into 
flower. ‘They will flower in the green-house; but the flowers 
are small, and the growth but slow, in comparison to those 
that are removed into a higher temperature. Their flowering 
depends, like most other things that flower upon their wood 
made the preceding year, upon its being well ripened and 
matured in the sun and air, and kept perfectly free from shade. 
C. speciosus fruits freely with us, and ripens its fruit about 
three months after flowering. C. speciosissimus requires longer 


On watering and shading in dry Seasons. 399 


time to bring its fruit to perfection. The flowers that were 
_ set last July twelve months with speciosus are now ripe and 
about the size of a hen’s egg, and have a very rich and 
agreeable smell, resembling that of a pine apple. | 

That beautiful species C. truncatus seems to require less 
light than the others; it flowers at any size and at all seasons, 
without being previously set out of doors. Crassula falcata, 
with the same treatment, flowers freely with us about eight 
inches high. I am, Sir, &c. 

; W. J. SHENNAN. 

Gunnersbury Park, near Ealing, Middlesex, 
August 4, 1826. 


Art. XIV. On the Use and Abuse of watering Vegetables in 
dry Seasons, and on the Advantages of Shade to Culinary 
Crops in Times of great Drought. By Mr. Grorcr Fut- 
ton, Gardener to Lord Northwick, at Northwick Park, 
Gloucestershire. 


Sir, 

As a reader of your very useful Magazine, may I beg to 
be allowed to offer a few remarks on the watering of vege- 
tables, as applymg more particularly to last year and the 
present dry season? Such seasons, I believe, have prevented 
a number of gardeners from raising any thing near the 
variety of vegetables usually in demand by the cook of a con- 
siderable family. ‘The scorching suns of the longest days 
of the year, want of rain, and almost no dew in the night, 
are, no doubt, the principal causes of the failures that have 
generally taken place in the vegetable kingdom: but there 
are other causes, under particular circumstances, which I think 
~ ought to be noticed. One is the carrying to an injudicious 
extent, the watering of vegetables in very dry weather. 
How often do we see water thrown upon plants in the open 
air as it were at random, and frequently the earth washed 
away from their best roots? How compressed the earth be- 
comes after repeated watering is well known, particularly in 
stiff or clayey soils. It seems against the economy of nature 
to water plants at all in a clear atmosphere and dry state of 
the air. Vegetables, instead of being refreshed, in the night 
become chilled, and actually scalded as it were in the day. 
The sickly appearance of plants under such treatment is soon 
visible, and the decay and death of many is the consequence. 

EE 3 


400 On watering and shading in dry Seasons. 


Water is used too freely in dry seasons upon the stem of 
the plant, both by young gardeners and cottagers in their 
gardens: the former pours it on them without any other 
thought than what is necessary for the performance of the 
operation; while the latter thinks that in watering so much 
he is doing great things, although his cabbages are in the 
last stage of consumption before his eyes. All this is wrong ; 
a variation in this, as in many other points of gardening, is 
better than uniformity of treatment. I have found that in 
the evenings sprinkling low-growing vegetables over their — 
leaves, and alternately watering their roots, is a good method, 
if the surrounding air be in a moist state: but if the drought 
increases with much sunshine, it is better to withhold water 
for a time; then again to vary the system, by watering between 
the rows of vegetables, alleys, &c., which tends, in some 
degree, to produce a moist air and dew. This, however, 
should only be done in calm evenings, in order that atmo- 
spheric dews, and all exhalations from the earth, water, and 
vegetation may be promoted. Watering when clouds inter- 
vene is attended with good effects, and also when it actually 
rains; vegetation is, in the latter case, accelerated in a great 
degree. 

Different kinds of shade have been used by gardeners in 
hot summers to protect vegetables, and I believe not without 
success. ‘The practice of growing vegetables between beds 
of asparagus is, I think, a good one. I have, last year and 
the present, had cabbages, cauliflowers, dwarf peas of the 
Spanish sort, spinage, French beans, and lettuces, between 
asparagus beds, for a great part of both seasons, when they 
were scanty crops every where else in the garden. Therefore 
I consider that the above useful vegetable is not cultivated to 
the extent it ought to be, as, independent of its own use, it 
is also an excellent protection for vegetables in dry weather. 

If, Sir, you think the above hints worthy of a place in the 
next Number of the Gardener’s Magazine, I shall be glad of 
having, in some degree, contributed towards a work which 
seems to have for its chief object the improvement of garden- 
ing and the advancement of gardeners. 

Iam, Sir, &c. 
- GrorGE Furron. 
Northwick Park, near Moreton in the Marsh, 
August 15. 1826. - 


_On a Devonshire Practice in planting Vines, &c. 401 


Art. XV. On a Devonshire Practice in planting Vines, and 
on the Use of Salt as a Manure for Arable Lands, and for 
renovating Grass Lawns. By Wiii1am Coxtiyns, Esq. 
Surgeon, Kenton, near Exeter. 

Sir, 

In one of the Numbers of your very useful Magazine, there 
is a statement from a gardener, of the grapes in the garden he 
superintended having invariably rotted before they ripened, and 
of his having remedied this, by taking up the vines, and plant- 
ing them at a less depth than they were before. Now, in this 
part of the county of Devon, vines are very commonly trained 
over the cottages, and they are planted in almost every garden; 
and it is a common rule with our labourers and gardeners, if 
the subsoil is not gravel at the depth of a foot or eighteen 
inches, to fill in the pits where vines are to be planted, to 
within that distance of the surface, with stones, gravel, broken 
pottery, &c. in order, as they say, to prevent the roots running 
too deep, as then the grapes will rot, and seldom ripen; 
whereas by such management it very rarely happens but that 
our out-door grapes ripen every season; and as a proof of its 
good effect, I have this day, August 18th, had gathered from 
a vine so treated some years ago, a very fine bunch of sweet 
water grapes, from a south wall, perfectly ripe. 

Your notice respecting the sowing of the Salsola sativa, in 
Languedoc, is not correct; the inhabitants do not dread the 
corrosive powers of salt, but knowing how the soil is impreg- 
nated therewith, their practice is to sow the salsola with their 
wheat, that they may be sure of a crop, as, if the wheat fails, 
the salsola succeeds, and vice versa. You observe, too, from 
Mr. Bennett’s statement to the Bath Society, that salt is not 
a manure at all, but merely a stimulant. Now I have proved 
its great value as a manure in arable lands that are light and 
sandy, and its astonishing power of recovering old pastures, 
and renovating the greensward in gardens, lawns, and plea- 
sure-grounds, which I have detailed in a small pamphlet, 
printed by Mr. Woolmer at Exeter, one of which I will send 
to you as soon as I get a reprint, the others being all sold. 

It occurs to me, that your notices respecting cottage eco- 
nomy may be valuably improved, by occasional notices of the 
medicinal effects of our indigenous plants, as affording cheap 
and useful remedies ; and if that portion of old woman’s know- 
ledge which J possess can contribute to so useful a purpose, it 
is at your service. Sir, Iam, &c. 

Wii11amM CoLiyns. 

Kenton, August 18. 1826. 


402 Culture of Nerium oleander splendens. 


The notice alluded to by our correspondent (Gard. Mag. 
323.) is a translation from a note by the distinguished French 
agriculturist, Yvart, given in an edition of the Théatre 
d’Agriculture d’Olivier de Serres, Paris, 4to. 1804, vol. i. 
p- 171. It coincides with the Agricultural Chemistry both of 
Chaptal and Sir H. Davy, and with our own observation and 
opinion. Salt may stimulate both arable land and pasture, 
without being a manure, or, in other words, a food for plants. 
We shall, however, be happy to see Mr. Collyns’s pamphlet 
on the subject, to make known his experience to our readers, 
and to change our opinion on conviction. 

We shall also be particularly obliged to our correspondent 
for suggestions as to cottage medicine from indigenous or com- 
mon plants; and we think it. might be useful to point out the 
native plants fit to cook with common food as spices or con- 
diments; such, perhaps, as crow garlic, Alliaria officinalis, 
wormwood, &c. &c. Might not the tender tops of common 
clover, thorns, elms, &c. be rendered palatable by such means ? 
and would not a decoction of common hay tea, which is known 
to be very nourishing, be rendered palatable by something 
easier or more universally to be got at than salt or sugar? We 
do not mean that these things can ever be either profitably or 
agreeably used as food, but we should like to know what could 
be made of them in seasons of great dearth, and in the unin- 
habited regions encountered by emigrants.—Cond. 


Art. XVI. On the Culture of Nerium oleander splendens. 
By Mr. James Reeve, Gardener to G. I’. Evans, Esq. and 
Lady Carberry, at Laxton Hail, near Wandsford, North- 
amptonshire. 

Sir, 

_ Permit me to send you a description of a plant of the Ne- 
_ rium oleander splendens, which I have succeeded in flowering 
in a superior manner this season, and which I trust you will 
approve as being worthy a page in your interesting Magazine. 
_ A cutting was sent me from Brighton, in a letter by post, 
in July 1823, which I immediately struck in water. — After it 
had taken root, I potted it in a light composition, and kept 
the pot standing in water. It was my object not to suffer it 
to flower, or form any head, till it attained the height of two 
feet, or two feet four inches; and therefore, during its growth 
to that size, I continually disbudded, observing at least to leave 
four buds nearest the top for the purpose of forming the head. 


Culture of the Carolina Wax Tree. 403 


These four buds broke forth with much vigour, and shortly 
opened four umbels of fine flowers. 

After flowering, I took it from the water, and placed it in 
its proper temperature to share the same attention and care as 
the common green-house plants, among which I allowed it to 
remain during the winter. In February, 1826, I removed it 
to 6 degrees more heat than its common temperature, at which 
time I reduced the ball of roots considerably, replaced it into 
its former pot, using the like composition as before, (the pot is 
of the No. 24 size,) and placed the: pot again in water, in 
which situation it remained three weeks. I then removed it 
to an increased heat of 8 degrees, and it shortly after began to 
make a profusion of luxuriant shoots, on which umbels of 
flowers began to appear; and in the beginning of April it had 
absolutely become a complete picture, both in its growth, fo- 
liage, and bloom; and I much regret that a drawing of it was 
not taken while in its beauty, at the time it stood in the drawing- 
room of my employers, who bear testimony to the multiplicity 
‘of its flowers and general beauty. a 

On the 2d of May, when in its most perfect state, I 
‘counted the number of flowers and umbels, and found them to 
be as follows: viz. umbels, 18; flowers in full perfection, 48 ; 

‘buds not opened, 63. It continued in great beauty till the 
4th of June, still having many buds not arrived at maturity. 

I flatter myself I have also made considerable progress in a 

‘new system of working oranges, which at a future time may 
form the subject of another letter. 
Meanwhile, duly appreciating the value and utility of your 
- Magazine, and of the honour and advantage which they who 
profess the art of gardening may attain through its public- 
ation, I beg leave to subscribe myself, most respectfully, 
Dear Sir, &c. 
Laxton-Hall, June 14. 1826. ~ JAMES REEVE. 


Art. XVII. On the Cultivation in England of the Carolina 
Wax Tree, with a View to its Produce in Wax. By Wit- 
LiAM Hamitton, Esq. M.D. 
Sir, 
ConcervjnG it the duty of every good citizen to contribute 
‘his mite to the good of the community of which he forms a 
part, either by personal exertion, or suggestions calculated 
to stimulate others to useful pursuits, I beg leave to call the 


~ 


404 Culture of the Carolina Wax Tree. 


attention of your experimental readers to the cultivation of a 
shrub which appears well suited to the mild climate of our 
southern and western, if not likewise of our northern and 
midland counties; and which, while adding considerably to 
our national resources, promises a rich harvest of reward to 
those whose public spirit leads them to prosecute the specul- 
ation with skill, industry, and spirit. 

The shrub to which I allude is the Myrica Carolinensis, or 

- Broad-leaved Wax Tree of Carolina, a hardy plant, perfectly 
acclimated in France, where it flourishes luxuriantly in a 
sandy and blackish turf, rising from the height of four to six 
or even seven feet, producing in general an abundant crop of 
derries every year, and requiring little care in its culture. It 
is readily propagated, either by sowing the seeds in spring, 
and afterwards transplanting, or, which is the most expedi- 
tious method, and equally successful, by taking off the young _ 
shoots, which rise in profusion at the base of the larger shrubs, 
and planting these out at the distance of about three feet 
from each other. ‘The Myrica Carolinensis succeeds wherever 
the soil is light and rather moist; and has been long known 
to flourish even in the dry sands of Prussia. In this latter 
kingdom, as we learn from an interesting memoir of Charles 
Louis Cader, inserted in the Annales de Chimie, it was suc- 
cessfully cultivated by the late Mr. Sulzer in a garden on the 
banks of the Spree, half a league from the city of Berlin, 
in latitude 52° 53’, which is nearly a degree and a half farther 
north than London, and where the mean annual temperature 
is only 2° 9! higher than that of London. Here the wax 
tree attracted the peculiar notice of every visitor by the deli- 
cious odour of its leaves, which they preserved a long time, 
and the fragrance of its berries. —The wax obtained from these 
berries was also so highly odoriferous, that a single candle 
formed from it not only perfumed the room in which it was 
lighted during the period of its burning, but also for a very 
considerable time after it was extinguished. 

From what has been said we may, I think, fairly conclude 
that this valuable plant is capable of being successfully culti- 
vated in the light sandy soils of a considerable part of Hamp- 
shire, in the Isle of Wight, in the vicinity of Plymouth, and 
im many parts of the open, and, at present, neglected tract 
in the neighbourhood of the Lizard, where acres, now not 
worth 2s. 6d. an acre for their produce above ground, might 
be made almost to rival on their surface the wealth which 
they conceal in their bowels. 

In America, to which we are indebted for this valuable 
production, a very fertile shrub will yield nearly 7]bs. of 


Culture of the Early Potatoe in Lancashire. 405 


berries, 4|bs. of which yield 1]b. of wax. This, when melted, 
is of a greenish yellow sS-0L5, and of a firmer consistence ‘han 
bees-wax. Candles made of it give a white flame and good 
light without smoke, and do not gutter like tallow Ganiles 
When quite fresh they afford a balsamic odour, which the 
inhabitants of Louisiana esteem highly salubrious. 

The following is the simple process by which the wax is 
separated from the berries. Having collected a sufficient 
quantity, they are thrown into a kettle and covered with 

water to the depth of about six inches; the whole is then 
boiled, stirring the grains about, and rubbing the berries 
against the sides of the vessel to facilitate the separation of 
the wax, which rises to the surface of the water like fat, and 
is skimmed off with a spoon, after which it is strained through 
a coarse cloth to free it from impurities. When no more 
wax rises, the berries are removed with a skimmer, and a 
fresh supply put into the same water, taking care to add 
boiling water to supply the place of that evaporated during 
the process, and changing the water entirely after the second 
time. When a considerable quantity of wax has been thus 
obtained, it is laid upon a cloth to drain off the water still 
adhering to it; after which it is dried and melted a second 
time to purify ie and is then formed into cakes for use. 

Such is the process for obtaining this vegetable wax, 
which, besides its value as an article for the manufacture of 
comnllae. and serving even better than tallow for making the 
finest soap, is, from a degree of astringency which it pos- 
sesses, better suited perhaps than common wax for the com- 
position of some plasters, in which this quality is desirable. 

Should these hasty remarks prove the means of directing 
any of your numerous readers to the cultivation of this 
valuable shrub in some of the waste and hitherto unproduc- 
tive lands of this country, it will afford much satisfaction to, 

Sir, &c. 
Fareham Place, near Plymouth, Witi1aAM Hanmi ton. 
May 15. 1826. - 


Art. XVIII. On the Culture of the Early Potatoe as prac- 
tised in Lancashire, and on the Mode of cooking the Potatoe 
there. By R. W. 

{nx the western parts of Lancashire, two very early potatoes 
are cultivated, the small round (I am unacquainted with its 


406 Culture of the Early Potatoe in Lancashire. 


particular name), and- the Lady’s Finger, or Early Rufford 
Kidney potatoe. Both sorts are excellent, as all Lancashire 
men will testify, and are produced and brought to market as 
early as May and June. I will speak particularly of the 
Lady’s Finger, or Early Rufford Kidney potatoe. A cul- 
tivator may pursue a similar plan with the other if he 
deems fit. 

It is well known in Lancashire to some, though I believe 
to very few, cultivators of the potatoe, that different eyes ger- 
minate and give their produce, or become ripe at times vary- 
ing very materially, say several weeks, from each other ; 
some being ripe, or fit for use, as early xs the middle of May, 
and others not till June or July, as may te best shown by the 
accompanying sketch. 


804. The sets nearest the extremity of the potatoe 
o-We'/s--- (fig. 80. a) are soonest ripe, and in Lancashire 
_ pt pM... are planted, as hereinafter mentioned, in warm 
‘i places in March or the beginning of April, and 

er |” are ready for the market about the 12th or 15th 
ae of May. The produce of the next sets (b) are 


plant should be near the middle of the cut, and a moderate 
portion of the tuber round each bud, as shown in the sketch, 
is sufficient. In a certain part of Lancashire this potatoe is 
cultivated with peculiar care, and some growers shelter the 
young plants with hurdles and hedges of furze here and there, 
to protect them from the cold winds, and sometimes even 
cover them with mats during the night. The sets are there 
planted in the month of March or beginning of April as before 
stated, in drills of twenty-four drills in twenty yards, and of 
sixteen inches to the top of. the drill in the following manner. 
After the drills are formed (jg. 81. @) ; 
loose earth is brushed with a spade, or 
harrowed down, to the depth of six 
inches in the interval between them (6) ;~~ 
dung is then placed over this loose _ 
earth, to the depth of four or fives 
inches (c); the potatoe sets of the earliest 

degree (jig. 80. a) are then laid on they. 
manure, at four or five inches apart,ss23= = 
for the early crop, and sets of the second 
degree (fig. 80. 6), at from six to eight 
inches apart, for later crops, and so on, 


80 


Se 


A Pine Pit heated by Steam. 407 


The sets for the early crop are then covered with a spade 
to the depth of two inches, and subsequently covered at two 
or three different times to the depth of about five inches. 
The second and third crops are usually covered with the 
plough. 

Some lay the potatoes intended for plants early in the year, 
before they are wanted to be cut, loose and separate on straw, 
or on warm boarded floors, and others put them on flakes or 
frames in warm situations near the fire, for the same purpose, 
in order that they may sprout, and when so sprouted to the 
length of half an inch or an inch, they are then carefully cut 
as described, assorted and planted. 

Some of the growers, who take great pains in the early 
production of this potatoe, obtain in Manchester market two 
or three shillings per pound, and from their delicacy they are 
worth the money. 

You will not fail to observe, that part of the potatoe near 
the root or runner end, as per section, is of no use whatever 
for sets or plants, yielding only stems, and small potatoes 
not worth cultivating: in cutting the sets this part is usually 
thrown into a fourth vessel, and given to the pigs. 

Perhaps the Lancashire mode of dressing early potatoes 
may not be unacceptable to some of your readers. ‘ Brush 
off the skins, set them on the fire in cold water: when boiled, 
pour off the water completely, add a little salt, and dry them 
well on the fire.” An iron pot, I conceive, is the best vessel 
for the purpose, and the sooner they are eaten with cold 
butter the better. 

I am, Sir, &c. 
R. W. 
London, Feb. 11. 1826. 


Art. XIX. Description of a Pine Pit, to be heated by 
Steam, erected in Shugborough Gardens, Staffordshire. By 
Mr. AnpREw Jounston, Journeyman Gardener there. 

Sir, ! 

I encioss the following plan of a pine pit, (jigs. 82. and 83. 
engraved from sketches, remarkably well delineated,) which I 
hope you will consider not unworthy of a place in your very 
valuable Magazine. It has not as yet appeared in any publi- 
cation, although one of a very similar nature has been sent by 
Mr. M‘Murtrie to the Horticultural Society ; and, I dare say, 
will soon appear in their Transactions: but as their reports 


408 A Pine Pit heated by Steam. 


have but a very limited circulation, when compared with that 
of the Gardener’s Magazine, permit me to hope that a few 
brief observations on the steam-houses in Shugborough Gar- 
dens, together with the plan and references of the one that is 
submitted to your inspection, (which only differs from those 
here by being formed on a still more economical plan,) may 
not be unacceptable to the generality of your readers, parti- 
cularly such as are not members of the London Horticultural 
Society. 

The steam-houses at Shugborough were originally built for 
the cultivation of the melon and cucumber, both of which do 
remarkably well in them; better, I think, than I ever saw them 
do in a hot-bed frame. But this will not be a matter of surprise 
when it is understood that both fire heat and steam can be 
applied together or separately as necessity may require. But 
what is still more worthy of remark is the astonishing growth 
of the pine-apple plant in these houses. It will hardly be 
credited when I assert that they do much better in them in 
winter than they do in the dry-stoves in summer. ‘The best 
proof that I can give of the truth of my assertion is, that we 
have this season, on the Ist of August, cut a New Provi- 
dence pine weighing twelve pounds and a half avoirdupois 
weight, outweighing the one cut last year by twelve ounces. 
This is one instance out of many that might be adduced to 
prove that they are the best houses for the pine ; and not only 
for the pine, for they are equally well calculated for the melon 
and the cucumber, and also for the early forcing of asparagus 
and other plants. 

Every practical gardener is aware that the vine grows much 
more luxuriant in a moist heat than in a dry atmosphere; of 
necessity, the vine will require a larger house than any of the 
' preceding. ‘The simplicity of their construction is a matter 
of no little consequence, no engineer being necessary ; almost 
any bricklayer and plumber are sufficient for the undertaking. 

The steam pine pits, of which the following is a plan, are 
now building in the gardens of the Earl ‘Talbot at Ingestree. 
They were designed by Mr. M‘Murtrie, and only differ from 
those in the gardens at Shugborough by having the back part 
of the roof covered with slates, which will be less expensive 
and more durable than glass. It may also be necessary to 
add, that the boiler for a house of this size should oz thirty 
gallons of water, and be supplied by a ball-cock: the lid 
should be screwed on tight, that no steam may escape, unless 
_ by the pipe into the chamber; the diameter of the aperture of 

which should be six inches, so as to admit the steam freely, 
and render a safety valve quite unnecessary. 


4.09 


A Eee era reas 
Yyyiulitdadlstidddiiidiiliitidtt tiie 
y 


A Pirie Pit heated by Steam. 


U /f----lldletetdtddltdll 


jlaweremswwscrsmresa- oe 


ANY 


\ KK x 
— \\ 


WG Gy ,vy°o KWK(K\{(_W'WW’*“"°"7"_"=x 


—— 
oT 


Tee 
H 
i Rae 
fal 
cee 
Roy 


Li 


— 
ss aa 


e; 


Be. 


he chamber. 


REFERENCES, 
door into the stock hole. 


they are stopped by plugs when the stea 
p-! 


is not wanted. 
(f) Hole to allow the steam to escape whe 


Fire place. _ 
Flue, 
Boiler. 
Steam chamber, 
Holes to admit the steam into the hous 
not in use. 

') Ball-cock cistern. 

) Tra 

) Arched passage into t 

(j) Door. ; 


(e 
i 


KW 


__ 


JOHNSTON. 


Y am, Sir, yours, 
ANDREW 


a 


= 


Shugborough Gardens, 
August 5. 1826. 


410 On the Treatment of Under- Gardeners. 


Arr. XX. Rémarks on the Treatment Under-Gardeners receive 
Jrom their Masters. By G. R. G. Journeyman. 


Sir, 

I HERE venture on giving you some remarks upon the treat- 
ment under-gardeners are subject to from the gardeners, their 
employers, in noblemen or gentlemen’s gardens; not taking these 
from how I am at present situated, but partly from my own 
past experience, and partly from my knowledge of the treatment 
of others. You remark, in your introduction, that “ it is a 
common complaint amongst gardeners that they are not suffi- 
ciently paid, and that a man who knows little more of gar- 
dening than a common labourer, is frequently as well off as 
aman who has served a regular apprenticeship to his busi- 
ness. This is perfectly true, where the gardener is nearly 
or equally devoid of elementary instruction with the la- 
bourer.” Here I would ask, do gardeners who have men 
under them stimulate or encourage the taste which the em- 
ployed men have? Do they at all study to disseminate that 
knowledge amongst them which themselves have acquired? 
No, they fall very far short of acting in such a generous way; 
nor are they by any means the more assiduous in urging 
them on, although they may have obtained “elementary in- 
struction.” ‘That good fruit may be produced for market, 
care and attention are required by the cultivator, Jet the soil 
or climate be ever so good. On the same principle I 
would urge the tuition of gardeners, even if employed in first- 
rate places. It is a thing, which too frequently occurs, 
where there are four or eight hands kept, that one in the 
former number, or two in the latter, may have it in their 
power to improve themselves; while all the remaining indivi- 
duals are deprived of the possibility of making a single effort 
for their improvement. Whereas, were the master to act dis- 
criminately, he, without curtailing his own privileges, or con- 
tracting the advantages of the one or two menticned, or in the 
least degree acting unjustly towards his employer, might, with 
a very few exceptions, enable all under him ultimately to 
arrive at what is so particularly your wish —the full capability 
of filling first-rate situations with advantage to the proprietor. 

March 17th. ~R.G. 

Want of room prevents us from inserting the whole of a 
second communication received from G. R. G. on the same 
subject. Being desirous, however, of encouraging every effort 
in a young man to improve himself, and of assisting to Mac- 


On the Treatment of Under-Gardeners. 411 


adamise the road, as G. R. G. expresses himself, for the 
improvement of others, we quote his leading argument. “ One 
thing only is wanted in order to render under-gardeners in- 
telligent and moral, and that is, pay for their labour at the 
same rate that other journeymen tradesmen are paid for 
theirs.” G. R. G. has entered into various details to show — 
that the wages of gardeners ought not to be inferior to those 
of bricklayers and carpenters, and one of his arguments is, 
that gardeners require fully as much previous education as 
they do. Our young friend, however, should not overlook the 
difference between the prospect of a journeyman carpenter 
and those of a journeyman gardener; the former, in general, 
can look forward to nothing beyond that of a journeyman, or, 
if he becomes a master, it is in consequence of having been so 
long a journeyman as to have saved money: the journeyman 
gardener, on the contrary, after he has been two or three years 
out of his apprenticeship, mounts at once into the condition 
of master, and, if he has attained a first-rate situation, he is 
perhaps as well off at twenty-five as an industrious journey- 
man carpenter at forty-five, because it would probably require 
that time before the latter could save sufficient money to enable 
him to become a master. The fact is, that while other trades- 
men require both skill and capital to assume the condition and 
reap the advantages of a master, the gardener requires skill 
only. Knowledge, therefore, to the gardener is money as 
well as knowledge; it is both skill and capital; and it will not 
be denied that skill can be acquired by labour of the mind 
sooner than capital by labour of the body. Hence the pro- 
fession of a gardener has peculiar advantages for those who 
engage in it with a proper degree of scholastic education ; 
and hence also, if gardeners were as well paid as carpenters 
and bricklayers, the market would soon be overstocked with 
them. ‘The price given for any description of labour will, in 
the long run, always be found a just price. But while we state 
this, we know it to be perfectly true that a journeyman gar- 
dener can barely exist upon his wages. We consider it highly 
commendable in G. R. G. to use every argument in favour of 
raising them, and we certainly think if they were raised, the 
masters would be gainers as well as the journeymen. In all 
businesses a man works according as he is paid; and all poli- 
tical economists agree that it is better for a country that the 
wages of labour should be high than low. We have received 
a clever paper on this subject from ‘ Srnsitiva,” which we 
regret we have not room for in this number. In the mean- 
time, as no general improvement in the wages of journeymen 
Vou. I. No. 4. FF 


412 On the London Horticultural Society. 


will probably take place in time to benefit G. R. G., we recom= 
mend him to continue to store his mind with all kinds of 
knowledge that he can bring to bear upon his profession. — 
Cond. 


Art. XXI. Reasons for not subscribing towards the Form- 
ation or Support of the Garden of the Horticultural Society 
of London, with some Remarks on the Management of the 
Society generally. By Menror. 

Sir, : 

Presumine the pages of your Magazine to be open to the 
discussion of every subject relative to horticulture, I send 
you the following observations as containing my reasons for 
not subscribing towards either the formation or support of the 
garden of the Horticultural Society of London, as also some 
remarks on the management of the Society generally. 

Having been elected a Fellow prior to the establishment 
of the garden, I have lately received a circular from the coun- 
cil, reminding me that former applications from them rela- 
tive to the garden are still unnoticed, and enclosing to me 
certain explanatory notes relative to the mode in which each 
class of the Fellows are to be treated, so far as regards the 
amount of their donations and subscriptions thereto. Now, 
as I reside very many miles from London, I cannot, under 
those regulations, have any inducement either to increase 
my subscription or become a donor, for I consider the 
original Fellows of the Society, or at least such of them as 
have not thought proper to increase their subscriptions, have 
been very unceremoniously turned to the right about, and 
shorn of an equal share of the privileges which they were 
entitled to expect by the charter, notwithstanding the great 
exertions they have made, jointly and severally, to promote, 
as much as in them lay, its interests and well-doing, and 
having by their great and constant attention assisted mainly in 
placing it on the high ground on which it at present stands ; 
while those Fellows who have been elected since the formation 
of the garden, who have merely complied with the regulations 
existing at the time of their admission, but who have not once 
pulled at the labouring oar by which the Society has been 
called into notice, are allowed advantages which I am de= 
cidedly of opinion (and I am not singular in this respect) 
they are not by any means exclusively entitled to. And further; 
I firmly believe that by the expensive principles on which the 
garden is now conducted, the seeds of its own ruin are already 


On the London Horticultural Society. 413 


sown, unless indeed the government should fortunately be 
disposed to grant a Jarge annual allowance to make up the 
great defalcation which must ultimately take place in the 
finances of the Society without such assistance. I say fortu- 
nately, not because I approve of accepting any such allow- 
ance, as it would in my opinion totally destroy the independence 
of the Society, but because without such aid I believe the 
garden cannot be proceeded with, at least on the present 
extended, extending, and magnificent scale. Yet even this sup- 
port, if attained, cannot be considered as permanent, as we 
have already seen in the fate of the Agricultural Society. I 
expect also that the finances of the Society will suffer by a 
falling off in the sale of the Parts published, which may arise 
from two causes, viz. first, from the increased number of 
Fellows, many of whom, before they became so, were in all 
probability purchasers; and, secondly, the papers published 
are by no means so interesting to the generality of readers as 
they formerly were, when several persons were each contri- 
butors of short papers founded on their own personal know- 
ledge of the facts therein ‘stated, instead of which the Parts 
are now principally filled with papers relative to the progress 
of the garden, and of the fruits and flowers therein cultivated, 
the major part of which may possibly be ornamental, but 
certainly cannot be considered useful. So that instead of the 
public drawing information through these publications from 
every part of the kingdom on subjects of Horticulture, they 
now obtain little more than observations and memoranda of 
what has been done in the Society’s garden. , 

In making the foregoing observations, I have no sinister or 
hostile views towards the Society ; on the contrary, I should 
feel gratified by assisting to uphold it: but I must repeat that 
I cannot by any means consent to do so, while I so highly dis- 
approve of the regulations which have been introduced, appa- 
rently to force the money from the pockets of the original 
members ; for with no other view could the asterisk be affixed 
to the names (in the List of Fellows) of those persons who 
have complied with those regulations, J object also to the 
great outlay which has so inconsiderately taken place in the 
formation of the garden without funds to support it; and as it 
never was originally intended to form a botanical collection of 
plants, I do not, under any circumstances, approve of sending 
botanical collectors to foreign parts, to search for what ? not 
for the useful, but merely for the rare or beautiful. And you 
are perhaps aware that doing this is entirely in opposition to 
the opinion of the late highly esteemed and highly valued Sir 
Joseph Banks, who carried his partiality to the “ useful” so 

Fr 2 


414 On the London Horticultural Society. 


far as to express his opinion that a coloured plate of a flower 
should on no account be introduced into the Society’s Trans- 
actions: and although I do not entirely agree with this doc- 
trine, yet I am decidedly of opinion that flowers or fruits 
requiring a very high temperature should only occupy the 
second place in the consideration of the council, and that 
their attention should be principally directed to the improve- 
ment of the fruits and culinary vegetables, which it is probable 
may be brought to perfection in the latitudes of the united 
kingdom. 

All that has been said about a paid secretary I think of no 
value, as it is my opinion, founded on the experience of some 
years, that business of every kind is always best and most 
promptly executed when very few persons are concerned in it; 
and a hired secretary would not. only be without power to 
act, but from want of that power he would not exert his 
energies to their full and necessary extent; and I believe, 
however high such a person might stand im point of talent, 
or however large his remuneration might be, he would not 
so completely devote himself 1o the Society’s service as the 
present honorary secretary does, and I am satisfied that the 
Fellows ought to be very much obliged to him for so much 
gratuitous time bestowed on the business of the Society: but 
I nevertheless cannot help remarking that his zeal has, I 
think, carried him beyond the boundary originally intended 
by the charter, or by a large majority of the present Fellows ; 
and although it may be difficult, and certainly unpleasant, to 
recede from the high ground he has taken, yet it would be 
better to do so gradually than be let down at once by the run, 
and which, if the present system of extravagant expenditure 
is persevered in, must ultimately, and at no great distance of 
time, be the case. 

If the foregoing remarks, containing my reasons for not 
increasing my subscription, are deemed worthy of publication, 
they may possibly, by being widely disseminated through the 
means of your Magazine, open the eyes of many Fellows of 
the Society to the real state of its concerns, and tend ulti- 
mately to reduce the expenditure within the bounds of 
prudence, and yet retain the power of pursuing every truly 
desirable object that can be expected to be derived from it ; 
and that this may be speedily accomplished is the sincere 
wish of, 

Sir, &c. 
MENTOR. 
August 31. 1826. 


415 


PART IL 


REVIEWS. 


Art. I. Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London, 
Vol. VI. Part II. London, July, 1825. 4to. 1 Plate. 

THE principal feature of this part is a paper on strawber- 
ries by Mr. James Barnet, which occupies eighty of its 133 
pages. The plate is a plan and sections of a conservatory. 

9. An Account of anew Seedling Grape. In a Letter to the Secre- 
tary. By Mr. Henry Burn, F.H.S. Gardener to the Marquess of 
Ailesbury, F.H.S. &c. at Tottenham Park, near Marlborough. 
Read December 6. 1824. 

This excellent grape, known as the Tottenham Park 
Muscat, is the produce of seeds of the muscat of Alexan- 
dria, sown in 1819. Itis considered equal, if not superior, to 
the old muscat in point of size, both in bunch and berry, and 
to surpass it in flavour. 

10. An Account of a Lime Duster for the Destruction of Insects on 
Fruit Trees. In a Letter to the Secretary. By Mr. Samuel 
Curtis, Glazenwood, Coggeshall, Essex. Read August 20. 
1824. 

This utensil (fig. 84.) is made of tin, 12 inches long, 7 
inches wide at its broadest, and 4 inches se 54 
across its narrowest part. ‘The handle 
is 53 inches long, and to the top of it is 
fitted a cap (a), which is put on when the \\f 
lime is to be thrown on low trees; but 
when high trees are to be operated upon, 
the cap is removed, and a pole, of suf- 
ficient length to reach the height required, 
is inserted into the handle. The time for 
dusting trees with powdered lime is in the 
dew of the morning. ‘The caustic quality 
of the lime does not injure the most deli- 
cate, fresh-expanded foliage; it is only 
prejudicial to insects of all kinds, and to 
dead vegetable matter. Mr. Curtis, by 
the application of lime dust with this ma- 
chine, destroyed the caterpillars over a b 

FF 3 


416 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


whole orchard, giving one dusting just before the blossoms 
were expanded, and one or two after the blossoms were over 
and the leaves expanded. 

The same utensil may be used for dusting powdered brim- 
stone on trees or plants infested with the mildew, or for 
scattering salt, tobacco-dust, &c. 

11. On forcing Cucumbers. In a Letter to the Secretary. By 
-.Mr. Thomas Allen, F.H.S. Read January 4. 1825. 

In growing cucumbers under lights, “ the most obvious 
defects,” according to Mr. Allen, are “ compost of too light 
a quality,” and ‘“ dung not sufficiently worked before it is 
earthed over.” Mr. A. has been in the habit of growing early 
cucumbers under frames on common dung beds for twenty 
years, always producing abundance of fruit from March till 
October. In 1823 he worked seventy lights for the London 
market, the produce of which was 3360 cucumbers, or four 
dozen to a light, “‘ a greater product than is usually obtained 
by any of the ordinary methods of treatment.” The beds are 
made in December or January, the hot horse-dung having 
been previously turned and watered five or six times. Before 
earthing it, round flat mats about fifteen inches in diameter, 
formed by coiling up a band of straw one inch in diameter 
and ten feet long, are to be prepared and placed on the dung, 
under the centre of each light. Rye straw is preferred for 
these mats, as it does not encourage mice. A’ bushel of com- 
post, consisting of loam and rotten dung, is placed en each 
mat, and one plant, in preference to more, on the top of each 
hillock. - The top of the plant should be left three inches from 
the glass; the mould should then be dressed up round the 
hillock and be pressed close to the roots, and within one inch 
of the seed leaves of the plant: these, at no time of earthing, 
should be covered, for this is very apt to cause canker. ‘The 
earth should be kept within the bounds of the straw mat, and 
not be suffered to mix with the dung, as that would cause a 
burning, which is not only troublesome, but in many instances 
fatal to the prosperity of the plant; because, if the earth is 
once burnt, its vegetative quality is destroyed, and water will 
have no effect on it. The only remedy in such a case is to 
remove the mould, fork up and water the dung, lay on a little 
rye straw, and replace the earth. 

After ridging cut, from one quarter to one inch of air is 
given in the day, and about one quarter during the night. 
The covering must be very slight for the first three or four 
weeks, and must not hang over the sides. 

“The heat must be kept up by augmenting the linings once a 
week, turning over and watering them, when they heat so as to 


Transactions of the Horticultural Soczety. 417 


become dry. ‘The bed inside the frame will require forking up 
about nine inches deep, three times a week: the hillocks at the 
same time should be examined, and a round pointed stick of about 
an inch in diameter, and eighteen inches long, must be thrust about 
twelve inches into the dung, under the straw mat, making five or 
six perforations under each hillock. Into each of the holes so 
formed, pour from the spout of a water-pot as much water as the 
state of the bed seems to require; this may be ascertained from 
the facility with which the perforator goes into the bed. If the 
bed is husky, or burning, the stick will go in with difficulty, and 
then a large pot of water is required to a hillock; on the contrary, 
if the bed is in a free state of working, the perforator will go into 
it very easily, and then a sprinkling from the rose of the pot will 
be sufficient.” 


A great object of Mr. Allen seems to be to sweeten, rot, 
and moisten the dung under the frame, for the roots of the 
plants, while the heat is principally supplied by the linings. 


“The dung,” he says, “ from the continued forking and water- 
ing, will become in a fine state to receive the roots of the plants ; 
these, after passing through the proper depth of compost placed 
over the dung, which is about eight inches, will readily strike into 
the dung, and bear a productive crop of cucumbers throughout 
the summer, without their leaves flagging or requiring any shade. 
For ascertaining the proper period to make additions to the earth, 
the best criterion is the appearance of the roots through the sides 
of the hillock. This should be earthed over about three inches, 
each time forking out the dung two inches below the mat, to give 
a greater depth of earth each time of performing the operation. 
The last time this is done the depth of mould at the back of the 
frame should be twenty inches. It will be necessary to raise the 
frame and lights as the plants advance in growth.” 


Water should be given plentifully three times a week, with- 
out wetting the leaves or fruit, “ pouring it against the back 
of the frame, for the mould will dry faster against the back 
than the front, in consequence of the heat being there greater, 
and the air being admitted there.” 


“In pruning, the runners should not be cut or thinned out, the 
tops only should be pinched, and at every joint, beginning when 
the plant has two rough leaves, and the second rough leaf is about 
an inch in diameter. That will cause the plant to produce a fruit 
and fresh runner in succession at every joint; it will likewise add to 
‘the strength of the plants.” 


Pinch off the tendrils and male blossoms, and fecundate 
artificially in the early part of the season. 

The sort of cucumber which Mr. A. finds the most pro- 
ductive is the Southgate, and he prefers seed three or four 
years old to new seed. 

TE 4 


41% Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


12. Description of the different Varieties of Endives cultivated in 
the Garden of the Horticultural Society of London, in the Year 
1824. By Mr. Andrew Mathews. Read December 21. 


1824. 


Mr. Mathews is one of the Society’s garden clerks, and it 
is gratifying to see young men so circumstanced stimulated - 
and encouraged to produce papers of this kind, They are 
precisely the sort of papers that young men are best calculated 
for, and which, when well done, will do them the most good, 
by whetting the faculty of attention, and quickening the powers 
of comparison and discrimination. Mr. M., since he finished 
his paper, no doubt sees many things in endives which he did 
not see before he began to study them, and which those who 
have not attended to endives, as he has done, cannot see. Let 
him and others reflect from this, how much our knowledge of 
any object or subject depends on our close and continued 
attention to it, and how very imperfect must be our judgment 
on a great number of subjects, to which, from various causes, 
we have not paid more than ordinary attention. 

_ The Cichorium endivia, a native of the northern provinces 
of China, is the parent of all the European endives. ‘They 
have been cultivated in Europe from time immemorial as salad 
plants: and the different varieties may be classed as Batavian — 
Endives (Scaroles, Fr.), which include all the broad-leaved 
kinds; and Curled Endives (Chicorées, Fr.), which include all 
those with narrow leaves more or less divided, and much 
curled. Mr. M. describes five sorts of the first, and seven 
sorts of the second variety. ‘The twelve varieties described, 
seem all pretty nearly of equal merit, unless we except the 
‘* Small Batavian Endive” (Scarole petite, courte, or ronde, Fr.), 
of which Mr. M. says, “ This is certainly the best of the 
endives, and a valuable addition to our winter salads; it 
blanches with little trouble, and is mild and sweet, without 
being bitter.” 


13. Description of a newly invented Instrument for effectually ap- 
_ plying Tobacco Fumigation to Plants. By Mr. John Read, of 
_ Newington Causeway, Southwark. Read July 6. 1824. 


This addition to Mr. Read’s syringe is already figured and 
described in our Encyclopedias. Fumigation is the only one 
of the numerous uses to which this most valuable instrument 
can be applied, which does not succeed so perfectly as could 
be wished, a glutinous liquid being formed during the oper- 
ation, which prevents the free action of the valves. Notwith- 
standing this, however, the instrument may be successfully 
used for so many purposes, that it ought not only to be in 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 419 


every garden, but in every dwelling-house, and ship. Besides 
garden purposes, it may be used as a forcing pump, sucking 
pump, for giving enemas either in surgical or veterinary prac- 
tice; for relieving hoven cattle ; for extracting poison from the 
stomach; for injections of different kinds; for annoying an 
enemy or dispelling a mob by the discharge of offensive 
liquids; and for extinguishing fires. Mr. R. has published a 
pamphlet on its various uses. 


14. Description of «a self-acting Ventilator for Hot-houses. By 
John Williams, Esq. C.M.H.S., of Pitmaston. Read April 6. 
1824. 


The intention of this ventilator is to guard against extremes 
in the absence of the gardener. It is effected by the expansion 
and contraction of air in an air-tight vessel (jig. 85. a), com- 
municating with a cylinder and 
piston (4, c, d), which, by means 
‘of a rod (g), operates on the 
ventilator, or sash, to be opened. 
The use of the water, or other 
fluid, is to confine the air, and 
by that means, when the air ex- 
pands or contracts, it operates 
upon the piston. By means of 
an adjusting screw (f), the 
register may be made to open at 
any required degree ofheat. ‘The 
air-vessel (a) should contain 
several gallons, according to 
the size of the valve, or register, 
to be opened. When first used, 
the vessel must be heated suf- 
ficiently to expand the internal 
air; water is then to be poured 
in at the top of the cylinder (e), 
so as to give the required motion 
to the float; and about half an 
inch of fine oil must be laid on 
the top of the water (at c) to 
prevent evaporation. 


85 


« The vessel must be placed in front of the upper part of the 
back wall, and at all times fully exposed to the light. If the 
apparatus is of proper size, nicely constructed, and filled with a 
proper quantity of water, the registers, one being placed in the 
upper part of the back wall for the escape of the heated air, and 


420) Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


the other near the floor of the house for the admission of cold air, 
will open and close again several times in the course of the day, 
particularly when the weather is showery, with intervals of bright 
sun. 

A common smith, who understands hanging house-bells, 
and a tin-smith, will make and put up such a machine as this 
without difficulty and for little expense. We have noticed 
a similar contrivance by Mr. Mugliston, (p. 173.) which 
Mr. Williams had not seen till after he invented the above. 
15. An Account and Description of the different Varieties of Straw- 

berries which have been cultivated and examined in the Garden 

of the Horticultural Society of London. By Mr. James Barnet, 

Under-Gardener in the Fruit Department of the Garden. Read 

December 7. 1824. 

This is one of the most elaborate papers which has yet ap- 
peared in the Horticultural ‘Transactions; and it is valuable, 
because it relates to one of the most wholesome, universally 
attainable, and easily cultivated of hardy fruits. What the 
Society have done with regard to the strawberry, shows what 
they are capable of doing, and what they will render a great 
service to the country by doing, with the gooseberry, apple, 
pear, and other fruit-bearing trees. 

The exertions which were made to procure as complete a 
collection as possible of all the strawberries known in the 
gardens of the united kingdom, are worthy of notice as a 
specimen, and as an example to others, of the methodical, 
indefatigable, and successful exertions of the secretary. A’ 
printed em, on which was to be noted the names, characters, 
history, &c. of the different kinds of strawberries in the pos- 
session of each individual, was sent to all who are known to 
be attentive cultivators of strawberries. Upwards of seventy 
of these forms were filled up and returned, from which a 
variety of useful information was procured, and upwards of 
four hundred parcels of plants sent for. ‘These were obtained 
and planted in the spring of 1822, and were studied and com- 
pared by Mr. Barnet during the seasons of 1823 and 1824. 
The result is a general classification of strawberries under the. 
following seven divisions : — 

1. The Scarlet ( fruited) Strawberries. Fragaria Virginiana and 
F. Canadensis. Leaves nearly smooth, dark green, of a thin tex- 
ture, with sharp-pointed serratures ; fruit small, bright coloured, ° 
acid, and slightly perfumed. This class includes twenty-six sorts. 

2. The Black ( fruited) Strawberries. Leaves rugose, pale green, 
and small ; fruit middle-sized, conical, dark-coloured; flavour very 
rich, and highly perfumed. Five sorts. 

3. The Pine (or pine-apple-flavoured) Strawberries. Leaves 
almost smooth, dark green, of firm texture, and with obtuse ser- 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 4.21 


ratures ; fruit large, varying from almost nearly white to almost 
purple ; flavour sweet and often perfumed. Fifteen sorts. 

4, The true Chili Strawberry. F. Chiloensis. This species has 
not yet sported into varieties. Leaves very villous, hoary, with 
small leaflets of thick texture and obtuse serrature; fruit very 
large and pale; flesh insipid in the type or original species, but in 
the new kinds which have been raised from it by cross impreg- 
nation, such as Wilmot’s superb and the Yellow Chili, it is better. 

5. The Hautbots (haut-bots, high-wooded or high-sialked) Straw- 
berries. F. elatior. Leaves tall, pale green, and rugose; fruit 
middle-sized, musky flavour. Five sorts. 

_6. The Green Strawberries. F. collina. Leaves pale light-green, 
and strongly plaited. Cultivated by the French, and sometimes 
by us, under the name of green pine, or pine-apple (shaped) 
strawberry. 

7. The Alpine and Wood Strawberries. F. semperflorens, and 
F. vesca, differing chiefly in the shape of their fruits, which are 
usually conical in the former and more globose in the latter. 
“ There are red and white fruited varieties of each. The Alpines 
produce fruit in the autumn, which the Wood strawberries do not. 
We have of late received from France several varieties. It is to 
these kinds that the attention of the French gardeners is almost 
exclusively directed.” : 


Mr. Barnet has not described any of the kinds belonging 
to the two last divisions; but of the first five classes he has 
described fifty-four sorts, with their synonyms, amounting to 
two hundred and forty names; and he adds, that with the two 
classes unnoticed, and the varieties of other classes yet un- 
described, which are either at present in the garden of the 
Society or elsewhere, the list may be extended to near one 
hundred kinds. 

It would be of little or no use to our readers to give the 
names of all the sorts described; but we shall give Mr. 
Barnet’s selection from them, as a guide to those who cul- 
tivate (and who does not?) this excellent fruit. 

“ Scarlets.—Old scarlet, Roseberry, Carmine scarlet, Grove 
End, Duke of Kent’s, Grimstone, American, Hudson’s Bay, Cocks- 
comb, and Wilmot’s late scarlet. 

“¢ Blacks. — Pitmaston and Downton. 

“« Pines.— Bostock, Surinam, Old Pine, Keen’s Seedling, and 
Round White Carolina. 

“ Chilis.— Superb. 

‘¢ FHautbois.— Prolific and Flat. 

“ If to these twenty sorts were added plantations of Red Alpines 
and White Alpines, the whole would form a more perfect collection 
of strawberries than has probably ever existed together in any one 
garden. It is to be observed, that flavour has not been the only 
property attended to in the above selection ; certain kinds, though 
deficient in that important point, have been included, because of 


422 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


their superior productiveness, it being considered that quantity, as 
well as quality and variety, is usually required.” 


The old or common scarlet is considered as the best for 
flavouring ices. For preserving, the oblong scarlet, Methven 
scarlet, and Vernon’s scarlet; and for jam, Bishop’s seedling 
scarlet, are recommended. 

The roseberry, when forced, and the plants turned out, 
generally bears a second crop in the autumn; the Grove End 
is one of the best strawberries for forcing; the Duke of Kent's 
scarlet is the earliest of all the sorts, ripening at least a week 
before the old scarlet; the Grimstone scarlet has the sweetest 
fruit, and the Scone scarlet contains more acid than any other 
known strawberry. The Bostock is the greatest bearer, but it 
is destitute of flavour; the roseberry and Downton are also 
great bearers; the latter preserves well, makes sweetmeats of 
great excellence and richness, and mixes particularly well with 
cream. 

Mr. Barnet is gone down to Scotland: supposing he had 
been going to Botany Bay, with permission to take only three 
sorts of strawberries with him, what sorts would he have 
chosen? the old pine, the old scarlet, and Keen’s seedling ? 
We will thank Mr. B. for his opinion on this subject for our 
next Number. 

“‘ When a perfect knowledge of all the different sorts of straw- 
berries has been obtained, reduction of the numbers will be the 
immediate consequence ; for when cultivators become acquainted 
with the characters of the whole, they can make their selection 
without hesitation or anxiety, because they will be certain that 
their choice will fall on the sorts possessing the properties most 
desired ; and the consequence will be the rejection, and ultimate 
annihilation, of those of inferior merit.” 

It is always desirable to know the origin of such names of 
fruits or flowers as either indicate, or seem to indicate, some- 
thing respecting their nature. In looking over Mr. Barnet’s 
list, we find that the scarlets, as may be supposed, are so 
called from the colour of the fruit; the Roseberry, or rose 
strawberry, is so named, not from any thing on the flower or 
fruit, but because the original plant grew under a rose-bush; 
a most improper circumstance for bestowing a name, because 
it leads a stranger to this piece of history to suppose that the 
appellation of rose has reference to some property in the 
flower or fruit. With due deference, we think the Horticul- 
tural Society ought to have designated it Davidson’s scarlet, 
or the Cadenhead scarlet, having been raised by Robert 
Davidson, Esq. and given to Messrs. Cadenhead, nurserymen, 
Aberdeen. We do not wish to change the name now, because 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. — 423 


we consider it better that the nomenclature of the Society, even 
though it may not be in every instance the best, (and what is 
perfect ?) ought to be followed without deviation, in order to 
prevent farther confusion. The Bostock strawberry is so 
called because it was raised at Bostock, in Cheshire: it is 
often called the Rostock, which has given rise to a supposition 
that it was a sort received from Rostock, in Pomerania. The 
word Pine, as applied to strawberries, is supposed to have 
originated from the French name, Fraisier Ananas, applied by 
Duhamel to the Surinam strawberry, from its pine-apple fla- 
vour. The Hautbois strawberry is dicecious, and it has been 
usual to introduce male plants as an essential part of the plant- 
ation of a bed of this species. Mr. Barnet thinks this may 
be dispensed with, as “ all the varieties of the Hautbois in the 
garden of the Society are remarkably productive, and even the 
Globe Hautbois, which usually has been supposed to require 
proximity of the male plants, bore as well as others, and yet 
none of these had been introduced when the beds were formed. 
They were probably fecundated by the pollen of other varieties 
which produce hermaphrodite flowers with perfect stamens.” 

It is stated as a fact, that strawberries frequently re-produce 
themselves, unchanged, from seed. Perhaps the same thing 
may happen occasionally with the fruits of ligneous plants ; 
and, if so, the golden pippin may be perpetuated from seed, as 
has been (Gard. Mag. 223.) suggested. 


16. Description of a Green-house in the Garden of Sir Robert 
Preston, Bart. at Valleyfield, in Perthshire. In a Letter to the 
Secretary. By Mr. Alexander Stewart, C.M.H.S. Read De- 
cember 7. 1824. 


The singularity and beauty of this green-house consists in 
the form of the stages (jig. 86. a, 6), which are calculated to 


I ore 


424 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


produce more variety than a 
common sloping series of 
shelves. This arrangement also 
displays more surface to the $f} 
light and air than the common { |{ye 
mode. ‘ It is now about ten 
years since the idea of making 
these stages struck me, and I 
ain happy to say they have an- 
swered my most sanguine ex- 
pectations, and have met with 
the approbation, not only of (————__ 
my employer, but of most persons who have seen them.” 

The back wall is covered with creepers, there is a large 
niche or alcove at one end, and a narrow border in front; the 
flues, span-roof, &c. are in the usual way. (/g. 87.) 


17. Upon the beneficial Effects of protecting the Stems of Fruit 
Trees from Frost in early Spring. By Thomas Andrew Knight, . 
Esq. F.R.S. &c. President. Read February 1. 1825. 


Circumstances have led Mr. Knight to believe, that when- 
ever a very large portion of the well-organised blossom of 
fruit trees falls off abortively in a moderately favourable season, 
the cause of the failure may generally be traced to some pre- 
vious check which the motion and operation of the vital fluid 
of the tree has sustained. A severe frosty night, or very cold 
winds, during the barking season, is known to give such a 
check to the flow of sap in the oak tree, as to prevent it from 
being separated by the peelers till the return of milder 
weather. 


“ Neither the health of the tree, nor its foliage, nor its blossoms, 
appear to sustain any material injury by this sudden suspension of 
its functions ; but the crop of acorns invariably fails. The apple and 
pear tree appear to be affected to the same extent by similar degrees 
of cold. Their blossoms, like those of the oak, often unfold perfectly 
well, and present the most healthy and vigorous character ; and 
their pollen sheds freely. Their fruit also appears to set well; 
but the whole, or nearly the whole, falls off just at the period 
when its growth ought to commence. Some varieties of the apple 
and pear are much more capable of bearing unfavourabie weather 
than others, and even the oak trees present, in this respect, some 
dissimilarity of constitution. 

“ Itis near the surface of the earth that frost, in the spring, ope- 
rates more powerfully, and the unfolding buds of oak and ash 
trees, which are situated near the ground, are not unfrequently 
destroyed, whilst those of the more elevated branches escape 
injury ; and hence arises, I think, a probability that some advan- 


Zransactions of the Horticultural Socicty. 425 


tages may be derived from protecting the stems or larger branches 
of fruit trees, as far as practicable, from frost in spring.” 


In support of this conclusion, Mr. Knight refers to an apple 
tree, which having had its stem and part of its larger branches 
covered with evergreen trees, had borne a succession of crops 
of fruit; whilst other trees of the same variety, and growing 
contiguously in the same soil, but without having had their 
stems protected, had been wholly unproductive; and to a 
nectarine tree, which having sprung up from a seed accident- 
ally in a plantation of laurels, had borne, as a standard tree, 
three successive crops of fruit. The possessor of the nectarine 
tree, with the intention of promoting its growth and health, 
cut away the laurel branches which surrounded its stem in the 
winter of 1823-4, and in the succeeding season not a single 
fruit was produced. 5‘ 


‘“¢ Never having known an instance of a standard nectarine tree 
bearing fruit in a climate so unfavourable, I was led to expect 
that the variety possessed an extraordinary degree of hardiness : 
but having inserted some buds of it into bearing branches upon 
the walls of my garden at Downton, in the autumn of 1822, I have 
not had any reason to believe that its blossoms are at all more 
patient of cold than those of other seedling varieties of the nec- 
tarine.” 

A China rose, sheltered by the stem of a plant of Irish ivy, 
grew and flowered with more than common vigour; and Mr. 
Knight suggests, that as the ivy, when it has acquired a con- 
siderable age, and produced fruit-bearing branches, exhibits an 
independent form of growth, which these branches retain when 
detached, if these were intermixed with plants of the more de- 
licate varieties of the Chinese rose, or other low deciduous and 
somewhat tender flowering shrubs, so that the stems of the 
latter would be covered in the winter, whilst their foliage would 
be fully exposed to the light in summer, it is probable that 
these might be successfully cultivated in situations where they 
would perish without such protection: and the evergreen 
foliage of the ivy plants in winter would be generally thought 
ornamental. Detached fruit-bearing branches of ivy readily 
emit roots, and the requisite kind of plants would therefore be 
easily obtained. 

As a farther experiment with reference to Mr. Knight’s 
reasoning, we would suggest to such as have lately planted an 
orchard of standard trees, to clothe the stems and principal 
branches of half of them, during the months of March, April, 
and May, with loose bands of straw, and to observe the effects 
in comparison with the other half. Pee 


426 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


18. An Account of a Method of obtaining very early Crops of the 
Grape and Fig. By Thomas Andrew Knight, Esq. F.R.S. Pre- 
sident. Read March 1. 1825. 


Mr. Arkwright has proved that vines, of which the wood 
and fruit have ripened late in one season, will vegetate late in 
the following season, under any given degree of temperature ; 
and Mr. Knight has shown the converse of this proposition to 
be equally true. A Verdelho vine, growing in a pot, was placed 
in the stove early in the spring of 1823, where its wood be- 
came perfectly mature in August. It was then taken from the 
stove, and placed under a north wall, where it remained till 
the end of November, when it was replaced in the stove, and 
it ripened its fruit early in the following spring. In May it 
was again transferred to a north wall, where it remained in a 
quiescent state till the end of August. It then vegetated 
strongly, and showed abundant blossom, which, upon being 
transferred to the stove, set very freely; and the fruit having 
bsen subjected to the influence of a very high tempeiature, 
ripened early in February. 

The white Marseilles fig, and figue blanche, which very 
closely resemble each other, succeed most perfectly under 
similar treatment; and if the trees be taken from the stove in 
the end of May or beginning of June, and placed under a 
north wall till September, and be then again transferred to 
the stove, they will begin to ripen their fruit in January or 
February, and continue to produce it till the end of May or 
the beginning of June, when they should be again removed 
from the stove. 


19. On the Culture of the Pine Apple. Ina Letter to the Secre- 
tary. By Mr. William Greenshields, Gardener to Richard 
Benyon de Beauvoir, Esq. F.H.S., at Englefield House, in 
Berkshire, Corresponding Member of the Horticultural Society. 
Read April 19. 1825. 


The following directions are for the management of pine 
plants that are intended to show their fruit eighteen months 
after removal from the parent plant. In the end of August, 
or beginning of September, prepare a pit for the stock of crowns 
and suckers. A bed 24 by 6 feet will hold 400 plants. 
Stick in the crowns and suckers in rows, as thick as they will 
stand, and about one inch and a half deep. Keep to 70°, and 
shade during hot sunshine. Through the winter, apply dung 
linings, to keep the internal air between 50° and 60°, and pro- 
tect the glass with mats during the night. If the bed should 
get very dry, give a gentle watering over the surface. No 
other care or attention will be necessary till March, the roots 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 427 


will then have run nearly over the surface of the bed, and 
consequently the plants will require potting. Plant in pots of 
about six inches in diameter for the largest plants, and for the 
smaller in proportion. Leave on all the roots, and strip off 
three or four of the bottom leaves. Use deep potting, which 
is a great advantage to pine plants in all stages of their growth. 
When the potting is finished and the plants are set in the pit, 
shut the lights down close, letting them remain so from four 
to eight days, shading in hot sunshine. 

Keep the air to 70° for the first three weeks; in that time 
the plants will be well rooted, and wiil then require free ad- 
mission of air, and watering about twice a week, as well as 
frequent sprinklings with the engine in hot dry weather. The 
top heat must then bé maintained, with dung linings, to 
65°, and the lights must be covered with mats at night, till the 
summer heat makes it unnecessary, — this will be in the month 
of June. At that time the plants will require fresh potting 
into pots two sizes larger than the last. There will be no 
fresh tan wanted at this season for the bed; turning it over 
one fork deep, to level the surface, is all that will be necessary. 
Pot the plants with balls entire, using the mould at this and 
every other potting in as rough a state as possible. 

About the middle of August or September the plants will 
require potting in their fruiting pots, from twelve to four- 
teen inches in diameter. Pot the plants with balls entire, and 
deep in the pots, stripping off a few of the bottom leaves to let 
them push out fresh roots. In setting the pots give plenty of 
room to the plants, for they will make considerable progress 
after this potting. When the setting is finished give a little 
water to settle the mould: the plants will not require any more 
for ten days or a fortnight after. Keep the house rather warm, 
to make them root freely, and then water whenever they ap- 
pear dry, which is the best criterion to go by in the autumn 
and winter months. Give plenty of air whenever the weather 
permits, and sprinkle with water when the bark bed and house 
become dry. aie 

Begin fire heat when the internal heat of the house in the 
morning falls below 60°, keeping between that and 65° to the 
middle of January, when a rise of 5° will be necessary. In 
April fork the bed over two forks deep, adding a little fresh 
tan quite at the bottom of the pit, and then level the surface. 
Before the plants are replaced, three or four of their bottom 
leaves should be stripped off, and a little of the old mould 
taken from the surface of the pots, and replaced with fresh 
mould, raised quite to the tops of the pots When the plants 

Vou. I. No. 4. GG 


428 Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 


are returned into the bed, plunge the pots to half their depth 
only, (this should be observed at all other settings, as there is 
nothing so injurious to a pine plant as too much bottom heat,) 
giving plenty of room, and a gentle watering. Keep the house 
rather warm for the first week, till the heat of the bed returns. 
Give air whenever the weather will permit, watering about 
twice a week in hot dry weather, and sprinkle with the engine 
frequently when the house is shut up in the evening. There 
will be no farther attention necessary till the fruit is swelled 
to its full size, and begins to ripen, then all waterings should 
be discontinued, and a free circulation of air admitted, to bring 
the fruit to its full flavour. 

The large sorts of pines that do not fruit at so early a period, 
require to be kept growing through another season. Cultivate 
the first season as above, but at the last potting in August 
or September use pots from ten to twelve inches in diameter, 
and keep the air of the house between 60° or 65° till the end 
of January or beginning of February; at that time raise the 
heat 2° or 3°, to encourage the plants to grow. 

Early in March shake the balls entirely from the roots, and 
fresh pot them into pots eight inches in diameter. By the middle 
or end of May their roots will begin to get matted, conse- 
quently they will require to be fresh potted into pots two sizes 
larger than the last. At the end of August, or beginning of 
September, they should be put into their fruiting pots. At 
this shifting they will require pots from fourteen to sixteen 
inches in diameter. In setting, plunge the pots to half their 
depth, give them a gentle watering to settle the mould amongst 
the roots, keeping the air in the house rather warm for ten 
days after shifting, to encourage their rooting freely, that is 65° ; 
and this is the temperature which should be maintained from 
the time of first lighting fires in the autumn till the middle of 
January. The mould in the pots should be kept rather dry 
till the middle of January, when the top heat should be in- 
creased to 70°, and water freely given to induce the plants to 
fruit. From this time to the maturity of their fruit, the usual 
management is adopted, excepting keeping the air of the house 
three or four degrees higher during the spring months. _ 

“ The rules that I have laid down in this communication, 
all apply to the treatment of pine plants that are intended to 
give a general summer crop. Where ripe fruit is required 
earlier or later, the different pottings, &c. must be varied ac- 
cordingly, and be done earlier or later as the fruit may be 
required to come in for use at an earlier or later season. The 
compost mould to be used at all the pottings should be strong 


Transactions of the Horticultural Society. 4.29 


surface loam, and half-rotten hog dung, of each equel quanti- 
ties, kept as rough as possible, in which state it should be ap- 
plied on all occasions. ‘The mixture should never be used 
when more than twelve months old. It may be here observed, 
that no pine plant should be checked in its progress; for the 
consequence of checking is always a premature and weak pro- 
duction of fruit.” 

This last observation deserves the particular attention of - 
gardeners, as it applies not only to pines, but to the whole 
class or division of vegetables termed by botanists Monocoty- 
ledones, including palms, bulbs, and grasses. It does not 
apply in any thing hike the same degree to Dicotyledones. 


20. An Account of the Calville Rouge de Micoud, a new Variety 
of Apple. By M. André Thouin, Foreign Member of the Hor- 
ticultural Society. (Gard. Mag. 226.) Read July 15. 1823. 
This apple tree was raised from seed about forty years ago, 

on the banks of the Loire. _ Its first season of flowering gene- 

rally takes place in April, at the same time as the greater part 
of the other varieties of apples; the second is in June. ‘The 
tree then ceases for a time to preduce flowers; the third and 
succeeding flowerings take place in August, September, Octo- 
ber, and November, when they are stopped by the severity of 

- the frost. It is necessary to remark, that the last flowerings 

are much less abundant than the two first, and the fruit which 

they produce is small, and imperfectly ripened. 

The fruit of the first crop is in form depressed spherical : 
near three inches in diameter across the centre of the fruit, but 
not exceeding two thirds of that measure in its section from 
the stalk to the eye. Its maturity commences about the mid- 
dle of July, and continues with little interruption till Novem- 
ber. The fruits of the April flowering ripen mostly in August, 
and are usually eaten during the harvest. Those of the second 
flowering succeed the first, and may be brought to table till 
the end of October; these are quite as good as the first, but 
are not bigger than a hen’s egg. ‘The fruit of the later flower- 
ings are not bigger than a small pomme d’api; neyerthe- 
less, when they are stopped in their growth by the frost, they 
may be placed in the fruit-room, where they ripen very well, 
and keep till November. 

It has been called the Calville Rouge de Micoud, in honour 
of the Baroness de Micoud, on whose estate it was raised, 


GG 2 


430 Transactions of the Horticultural Soctety. 


21. On the Management of Hot-house Flues, so as to keep up a 
nearly equal Temperature during the Night. In a Letter to the 
Secretary. By the Reverend George Swayne, Corresponding 
Member of the Horticultural Society. Read February 1. 
1825. 


Mr. Swayne “ feels pity for those among the successors to the 
primitive employment of our first parents, who have to attend 
to the modern refinement now very generally attached to that 
employ, namely, the forcing department and the culture of 
exotics. Whilst the rest of the servants of an establishment 
are usually enjoying themselves before ‘a comfortable fire, or 
in their warm beds, the poor gardener is obliged to encounter 
the pitiless pelting of rain, snow, or hail, the cold pulses of 
the frosty air, or the piercing shafts of the northerly blasts, 
in regularly pacing to and from his furnace (in many cases, no 
doubt, at a considerable distance from his lodgings,) without 
the allowance of ‘a single intermission during the tedious 
winter. But surely these matters may be managed otherwise.” 

Finding that a common baking oven, after being heated, re- 
tains a high degree of heat for twenty or thirty hours, Mr. S. 
proposes to apply the principle to the heating of hot-houses, by 
closing up the furnaces and flues, after they have been properly 
heated at an early hour in the evening, and reopening them, 
and rekindling the fires, at an hour not inconvenient in the 
morning, at once sparing the gardener’s nightly rest, and the 
the master’s coal-heap. 

The remainder of the paper is occupied chiefly in describ- 
ing a moveable iron cap to close the chimney pot, and a Welsh 
slate to set against the furnace and ash-hole, so as effectually to 
exclude air at both places. Mr. S. refers to Mr. Atkinson’s 
excellent paper on the management of furnaces (Gard. Mag. 
p- 167.), and probably if the double ‘doors and ash-pit registers 
recommended in that paper were employed, the large slate re- 
commended by Mr. Swayne might be ‘dispensed with. As to 
the cap to fit the chimney top, it is so unsightly an object, that 
we greatly prefer the usual description of damper. Indeed, 
as flues are generally built, we are not sure that it is desirable 
to have the smoke and heated air confined by air-tight cover- 
ings at their orifices. Between Mr. Atkinson’s directions, and 
Mr. Swayne’s suggestions, the judicious gardener will be ‘en- 
abled to improve upon common ‘practices, and by aiming at 
the retention of heat in the flues, save both labour and fuel. 


Catalogue of New Works. 431 


A notice which belongs to Art. 8. of the preceding: Part, 
(Gard. Mag. 306.), indicates a plan, by J. R. 
Neame, Esq. F.H.S. for preventing the drip 
in glass-houses. Mr. Neame attaches small thin 
copper gutters to the bars of his lights in the 
manner represented in the annexed sketch, 
(jig. 88.) ‘They are fastened on with pins the 
whole length of the bar, and conduct the water 
which they receive to the top of the plate which 
supports the bottom of the rafters, from which 
it falls into a gutter, which runs along the front 
of the house on the outside. 

Our correspondent, Mr. Saul of Lancaster, 
has sent us some observations on Mr. Neame’s 
plan, for which he proposes to substitute gut- 
ters formed in the rafter (fig. 89. a, a.); and in 
order toco-operate with it in preventing the con- 
densed water from dropping 90 
fromthe glass on the plants, 
he proposes to adopt diagonal 
glazing (jig. 90.): he adds, 

“ when glazing, a little putty 

é may be drawn out of the in- 

side, as it will form a gutter in the glass.” In 

houses properly constructed and managed, 

contrivances of this kind can very seldom be 

wanted. The fewer mouldings and grooyes 

in garden sashes of every kind, the less will 

they harbour water, dirt, and vermin, the 
smaller the surface to paint, and the greater the strength in 
proportion to the thickness. 


Art. II. Catalogue of Works on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, 
&c. published since June last, with some Account of those con- 
. sidered the most interesting. 


BrirTIsH. 


Lloyd, G.N. Esq., Member of the Plinian Society: Botanical Termin- 
ology ; or, Dictionary explaining the Terms most generally employed in 
systematic Botany. London, 12mo. 7s. 

GG 3 


452 Catalogue of Works 


Stewart, Alexander: The Farmer, Grazier, and Corn Merchant’s Pocket 
Companion, containing Tables for ascertaining the Weight of Cattle by 
Measurement, upon a new System; with other Tables, useful to Gentle- 


men, Farmers, and Dealers in Corn. Edinburgh, 12mo. 2s. sewed. 

Moort, J. W. Architect, Chief Examiner in His Majesty’s Office of Works 
and Public Buildings, Whitehall: A practical Treatise on the Construc- 
tion of Chimneys, containing an Examination of the common Mode in 
which they are built ; with an accurate Description of the newly invented 
Tunnel, demonstrating its Utility and Safety, its Importance in super- 
seding the painful Practice of employing climbing Boys, the Remedy 
which it affords for the Nuisance of Smoky Fiues, aad the Advantages 
to be derived from its rendering those lofty Shafts, with their numerous 
unsightly Contrivances at present in use, entirely unnecessary. Toge- 
ther with complete Instructions for its Adoption, whereby a competent 
Judgment may be formed of the Causes which prevent the free Ascent 
of Smoke in Chimneys, and Workmen may be enabled to apply a Cure 
for so serious an Evil. Also Tables and Calculations, by which Estimates 
of the Expense can be framed. London, royal 8vo. 


The tunnels or flues alluded to, are composed of bricks or tiles so moulded 
as to admit of building the flue of a circular or cylindrical section, what- 
ever may be its direction. As a proof that the plan is approved of by 
those who ought to be competent judges, the chimneys in the new royal 
palace in St. James’s Park are said to be building on Mr. Hiort’s plan. The 
proper materials for the construction of these chimneys are sold at certain 
wharfs imcntioned in the publication. 


-itkinson, James, Esq., of Oldbury, Argyle County, New South Wales, and 
formerly Principal Clerk in the Office of the Colonial Secretary at Syd- 
ney: An Account of the State of Agriculture in New South Wales ; 
including Observations on the Soils and general Appearance of the 
Country, and some of its most useful natural Productions; with an 
Account of the various Methods of clearing and improving Lands, 
breeding and grazing Live Stock, erecting Buildings, the System of em- 
ploying Convicts, and the Expense of Labour generally ; the Mode of 
applying for Grants of Land, with other Information, important to those 
who are about to emigrate to that Country: the Result of several Years’ 
Residence and practical Experience in those Matters in the Colony. 
London, 8vo. 7s.; or including a large Map and View of Sydney, 14s. 


To persons who contemplate emigration to Australasia, this work will be 
very acceptable. It seems judiciously composed, and: very impartial. 
“« Many large tracts are now open to emigrants in the various new settle- 
ments, but I must decline giving any opinion as to which should have the 
preference. The new settler should make his choice from personal in- 
spection, and a due consideration of the extent of his capital, and the 
objects he has in view.” . : 

There are two publications similar to Mr. Atkinson’s on Van Diemen’s 
Island, which ought to be consulted in connection with that now before us. 


Morris, Richard, ¥.L.S., &c. Author of “ Essays on Landscape Gardening,” 
&c., of the Firm of Messrs. Parnell and Morris, Surveyors, Estate Agents, 
and Landscape Gardeners: Flora Conspicua; a selection of the most 
ornamental flowering, hardy, exotic, and indigenous Trees, Shrubs, and 
herbaceous Plants, for embellishing Flower Gardens and Pleasure 
Grounds. Drawn and engraved from living Specimens by W. Clark. 
No. XV. 3s. 6d. 


The publication of this work was ‘concluded on the 1st of September, 
with the fifteenth Number. It forms a volume of sixty coloured engravings 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 4.35 


of ornamental hardy plants, so remarkably well executed that it may be 
safely recommended as a copy-book for young people learning to draw 
flowers. To botanical amateurs it possesses also considerable interest, 
the plants figured being some of the most ornamental in cultivation. 


Sweet, Robert, F.L.S. Author of Hortus Suburbanus Londinensis, Botanical 
Cultivator, Geraniacez, Cistinese, The British Flower Garden, British 
Warblers, &c. Sweet’s Hortus Britannicus: or, a Catalogue of Plants 
cultivated in the Gardens of Great Britain, arranged in natural Orders: 
with the Addition of the Linnean Classes and Orders to which they 
belong, References to the Books where they are described, their native 
Places of Growth, when introduced, Time of Flowering, Duration, and 
Reference to Figures; with numerous Synonyms. Part I. London, 
royal 8vo. 10s. 6d. 


This catalogue of our friend Mr.Sweet having the same title as our 
own, the reader may very naturally doubt our impartiality in speaking of it. 
But though the titles of the two works are nearly the same, the books 
differ so materially in plan, that the one is quite a different sort of thing 
from the other. We can, therefore, afford to render due praise to Mr. Sweet 
for having been the first to produce a British catalogue arranged in natural 
orders. We only regret that he has adopted a title to which we claima 
prior right, having announced our Hortus Britannicus in the Encyclo- 
pedia of Gardening (§ 7506. and other places,) in April 1824, and in 
various subsequent advertisements, long before Mr. Sweet announced any 
such work. This statement is due both to ourselves and the proprietors 
of our production. 

Mr. Sweet’s catalogue differs from ours in having the species arranged 
in natural orders; we have arranged the species according to the Linnean 
system, as in our opinion that system is better adapted for a beginner, and 
for the present state of botary in this country; but to provide for the 
more mature botanist, for those who differ from us in opinion, and for 
what may ultimately become the general classification in our gardens, we 
have given a natural arrangement of all the genera without repeating the 
species; and as the genera are numbered in both classifications, a reference 
from the one to the other is easily made. Our work, therefore, contains 
two distinct classifications, and therefore possesses all the advantages which 
belong to each. The number of what are called perfect plants in our cata- 
logue and in that of Mr. Sweet will probably be nearly the same, though 
on this subject we shall be more able to speak when Part II. of Mr. Sweet’s 
work appears. But in order that Mr. Sweet may speak for himself, we quote 
the whole of his preface. 

“The adoption of the arrangement of plants, according to the natural 
method, is continually increasing ; and under the very prevalent impres- 
sion that it will, ere long, be brought into general use, the author has 
been induced to compile the present work according to the natural system ; 
at the same time, there is prefixed, to each genus, the Linnean class and 
order to which it belongs; and it will be seen that, not unfrequently, 

lants of one genus will belong to several of the Linnean classes and orders. 
Natural orders are also of more real use to the cultivator, as it brings toge- 
ther the groups of plants that are nearest related, and which very generally 
require nearly the same sort of management ; and plants that are difficult 
to propagate may very frequently be readily increased, by grafting or inarch- 
ing on some other belonging to the same natural order, but will seldom or 
ever do any good on plants that are not so related. 

“ Besides the adopted names of the plants, and references to the books 
where they are figured or described, numerous of the most essential syno- 


GG 4 


434 Catalogue of Works 


nyms' are given, so that any plant is known as well by its different; names 
as by the adopted one; the want of this has been of late much complained 
of by cultivators.” 


Loudon, J. C. F.L.S. H.S. &c. Author of the Encyclopzedias of Gardening 
and Agriculture, &c.: Hortus Britannicus; a Catalogue of all the Plants 
indigenous, cultivated in, or introduced into Britain, with the Scientific 
Name, original Authority, Accentuation, English Name, two distinct 
Classifications, Linnean and Jussieuean, the popular Character, Height, 
Time of Flowering, Colour of the Flower, Native Country, Habit of 
British Species, Year of Introduction, Soil, Propagation, and Reference 
to Figures. With a Kalendarial Arrangement of hardy ornamental 
Plants; the popular Plants, and terms of Gardening and Agriculture, in 
Four Languages ; and a Blank Appendix for additional Species. London. 
8vo. 10s. 

The following are extracts from the preface: — 

“The advances made in botanical science, and the extraordinary acces- 
sions to our garden collections within the last ten years, demand corres- 
ponding improvement in botanical catalogues ; and the Hortus Britannicus 
now submitted to the public, contains the following additions, in form, 
materials, and details, not in any preceding work of the kind. 

I. In form. 

1. ‘Two distinct classifications; the artificial, or Linnean, in which the 
genera and species are given; and the natural, or Jussieuean, in which the 
genera are given, but not the species. 

2. A classification of the ornamental hardy herbaceous plants, trees, and 
shrubs, according to their time of flowering, the height they grow to, and 
the colour of the flower. 

3. A classification of the ordinary plants, and seeds of commerce, in four 

. different languages. 

4. A classification of the names of implements, operations, and more 
important technical terms of gardening and agriculture, in four different 
languages. 

II. In matter. 

1. All the native British plants, including the whole of Cryptogamia, 
Mosses, lichens, Fungi, Algze, &c. 

___ 2. Above 5000 species in cultivation in British gardens, not before in any 

British catalogue 
5. An Appendix of blank numbers, by which 500 additional species or 

varieties, or synonymous names, may be added in manuscript, as occasion 

may require. 

III. In details. 

1. Instead of the four signs h, 4, ¢; ©, for trees, perennials, 
biennials, and annuals, twenty different signs are used, distinguishing trees, 
shrubs, undershrubs, climbers, twiners, trailers, creepers, evergreens, bulbs, 
aquatics, &c. 

2. The popular character of each species is indicated ; i. e. whether a fruit 
tree, timber tree, culinary plant, agricultural plant, weed, &c. 

_ 5. The height to which every species grows, under ordinary circumstances, 

in its native climate. 

4, The colour of the flower. 

5. The natural habitations of native plants. 

6. The mode of propagation in gardens. 

7. The most congenial soil for each species. 

8. An enumeration of all the species, in regular series, from the begin- 


ning of the catalogue to the end, for the purpose of registering plants in gar- 
dens, herbariums, &c. 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 435 


9. After each genus is given, the total number of species which have been 

described or are known to exist, by comparing which with the number de- 
scribed in the catalogue, the number not yet introduced to Britain is at once 
ascertained. 
- All the details of preceding catalogues which seem worthy of adoption 
are combined with the above improvements; such as the original authority 
for each name, the duration, time of flowering, year of introduction, habit- 
ation in the garden, reference to figures, accentuation both of generic and 
specific names, &c. &c. 

The following observations on the above improvements, and other matters 
connected with this catalogue, are intended to assist the young gardener in 
generalizing on its details. 

Classification. Having determined in the spirit of the present state of bo- 
tanical science, to give both Linnean and Jussieuean classifications, it may be 
advisable to state the reasons which have led to the adoption of the former 
as sa principal arrangement, or that under which the species are given in 
detail. 

Though classification is less essential in a catalogue than in a Species 
plantarum, such as the Encyclopedia of Plants; yet in a catalogue like 
ours, so rich in descriptive particulars, that it is calculated to a certain ex- 
tent to serve the purpose of a Species plantarum, it is of great value. The 
classification which we have adopted, both in the Encyclopedia and here, 
as the principal one, is the Linnean, not only as of itself; as we think, best 
calculated for a beginner, and especially a beginner under ordinary circum- 
stances, but as that which will be most generally useful in the present state 
of systematic knowledge among practical men in this country. The natural 
system of Jussieu is in itself more perfect than any other, and very probably 
in time will supersede every other; but that time is not yet arrived, at least 
inthis country. Ifa beginner could begin among an extensive collection of 
plants, we should in that case recommend the natural system as the best ; 
because by it he would sooner acquire not only the names of plants, but a 
knowledge of their characters and properties; but when, as is generally the 
case, he commences with only the ordinary garden plants, and the indige- 
nous plants in his neighbourhood, then the artificial system is preferable, 
because more simple and absolute in its views and details. After acquiring 
the mode of discovering the names of plants by this system, and knowing the 
names of 1,000 or 2,000 species of half as many genera at sight, the learner 
may have recourse to the natural system. Its advantages to a student so far 
advanced, or commencing in a rich botanic garden, are great over the Lin- 
nean classification : one of the principal is, that when a plant is once men- 
tioned to him as belonging to any particular natural order, an idea 1s imme- 
diately formed of its general appearance, mode of culture, properties, and 
uses. Nothing of this sort can be said of any of the Linnean classes or 
orders, with one or two partial exceptions; but, on the other hand, any 
person who can count the stamens and pistils of a flower, can refer nearly 
one half of the plants known to their place in the Linnean system, so as to 
be able with ease to discover their names. This is certainly a great thing 
for a beginner. The Linnean system has been very fitly compared to the 
arrangement of words in alphabetical order, as in a dictionary, and the Jus- 
sieuean to the arrangement of words according to their roots and affinities. 
The one, as M. Bicheno has ably shown, teaches to know plants individu- 
ally, —the other to know them in masses. Still both in the dictionary 
and affinity system, when the name of an unknown plant is sought for, 
much depends on the enquirer’s already knowing a number of other plants. 

Such is our opinion of the two systems, offered for the purpose of assist- 
ing young gardeners in forming theirs. We shall only farthersuggest to the 
beginner, that whichever system he begins with, he will find great advantage 


436 Catalogue of Works 


in paying particular attention to the place of every plant in the natural 
system. Even when he is told the name of a plant, if he can learn from 
his informer to what natural order it belongs, and the genus that comes 
nearest to it in that order, the information will greatly assist the memory. 
To read or hear of a plant called Dulgodia, leaves no impression on the 
mind from which to imagine an idea of its appearance, or fix either the name 
or the thing on the memory ; but if it is added, that it belongs to Iridez, 
and is nearly related to Ixia, then the bulbous root, ensiform leaves, and 
brilliant flowers, which it must necessarily have, are immediately called into 
the mind’s eye; and Dulgodia, both as a word and thing, is associated with 
Ixia, and fixed in the memory. 4 

The Jussieuean classification is recommended for.the arrangement of bo- 
tanical or scientific flower-gardens. 

“To facilitate arrangements of this kind, we have. in the disposition of the 
genera, under the natural orders, added the number of hardy herbaceous 
and ligneous plants to each genus. This will enable gardeners to proportion 
the size of beds, groups, or other spaces to the number and size of the 
hardy plants in each order. No mode hitherto devised, is so well calcu- 
lated for communicating a taste and knowledge for plants as such an epi- 
tome of vegetable nature. A taste for plants as parts of a grand whole or 
system is of a much higher and more intellectual character, than a taste for 
plants as showy or fragrant flowers, or as ornaments to gardens. No plan 
is so well calculated to originate this taste, and promote its progress, as a 
display of plants according to their natural affinities. So great will be the 
additional interest and enjoyment afforded by the vegetable kingdom so dis- 
played and studied, that we have little doubt the time will very soon arrive, 
when every gentleman’s seat wiil have its Systema nature of plants in the 
pleasure-ground, as it now has its library in the house. 

The kalendarial arrangement is given for the purpose of facilitating the 
selection of ornamental plants for borders and shrubberies ; and partly also 
to show the botanical riches of each month. From this division of the 
work, the herbaceous plants, which in the column of popular character 
are entitled weeds, culinary, agricultural, grasses, &c. are excluded. 

The plants of commerce and the implements, technical terms, Sc. are given 
for the purpose of facilitating the intercourse between British and Foreign 
cultivators. By means of these terms, the scientific names of plants which 
are familiar to the principal gardeners of all countries, and a few verbs, and 
other parts of speech, which may be acquired in a day or two, gardeners may 
hold with gardeners a sort of verbal intercourse, sufficient for the ordinary 
purposes of professional ‘communication and commerce. 

The blank appendix is given for the purpose of enabling such cultivators, 
or collectors of specimens, as adopt our enumeration, to add in manuscript 
such additional species or varieties as are new or not found under the same 
names in the foregoing parts of the catalogue. 

The enumeration of the species in one series to the end, is made with a re- 
ference to two objects of considerable importance: 1st, to correspond with 
a similar enumeration given in the Encyclopzedia of Plants; and, 2dly, for 
the purpose of registering plants in gardens. 

For effecting the latter purpose in the simplest and cheapest manner, the 
improved mode of cutting numbers on sticks, invented by Mr. Seton, 
(Enc. of Gard. § 1783.) is deserving the particular attention of the gar- 
dener.” (‘The mode is then described and illustrated by two engravings, after 
which are given the following observations :—) 

_“ One of the most judicious methods of registering the plants of a bota- 
nical flower garden, in which there is a separate group or bed for each 
natural order, is, to have the name of the order or tribe painted on a label 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 437 


which may be formed of cast iron, or of strong wire with a plate of lead 
soldered to the top, and to number each particular plant by Seton’s mode. 
By numbering according to a printed catalogue, no written catalogue is 
required, very little time occupied, and the correct eye is not offended by 
misspelt words, or illegible writing. Even the accentuation of both genera 
and specific names is ascertained every time the catalogue, if accented like 
ours, is referred to, by which means gardeners will acquire a habit of pro- 
nouncing botanical names correctly.” 

After a variety of remarks on other improvements peculiar to this cata- 
logue, which it is hoped will be of value to the beginner, both in culture and 
in botanical study, the preface of eight closely printed pages thus con- 
cludes : — 

«« The immense value of such a work as this, to all who take any interest 
in botany or vegetable culture, must be obvious. Whoever possesses the 
Hortus Britannicus, the Encyclopzedia of Plants, and the short introduction 
to botany, now compiling expressly for the use of cultivators, to be entitled 
Loudon’s Introduction to Botany, for the use of Gardeners and Farmers, 
containing an explanation of the classes and orders both Linnean and 
Jussieuean, will have as complete a botanical library as any gardener or agri- 
culturist, or even botanist not intending to become an author, can have oc- 
casion for.” 

“ It remains only to state, that all the merit of the execution of the cata- 
fogue belongs to two botanists, the one in the first rank in point of science, 
and the other equally eminent in point of practical skill as a botanical cul- 
tivator, and as possessing a knowledge of the plants actually existing in 
British gardens.” 

“ The Editor claims for himself very little more than a share of the merit 
that belongs to the plan, &c.” 


FRANCE. 


Bulos, M., Translator of Sir H. Davy’s Agricultural Chemistry, and other 
Works: Traité d’Agriculture et d’Horticulture, traduit de l’Anglois, sur 
la 10° Edit. de Smith. Paris, small svo. tc 


The work of Smith, of which this treatise is said to be a translation, 
we never heard of, and suspect it to be a fictitious production. 


Chabouillé Dupetitmont, M., Cultivator: Manuel Pratique du Laboureur. 
Paris, 2 vols. 12mo. 

This is considered by the French. agriculturists a useful practical work. 
The author professes to join to the practices of the ancients the modern 
improvements which have been confirmed by experience. Calculations are 
given of the expenses and profits of different rotations, and of the com- 
parative advantages of using horses and oxen as beasts of labour. One 
argument in favour of the latter is, that they are subject to only forty- 
seven sorts of diseases, while horses. are liable to two hundred and sixty- 
one diseases, besides accidents, some of which, such as the breaking of a 
leg, render a horse of no farther use, while an ox may be sold to the 
butcher. 

Soulange-Bodin, M. le Chevalier, President of the Linnean Society of Paris, 
ember of the Royal and Central Society of Agriculture, &c. 

1. Instruction addressée aux Naturalistes Voyageurs. Paris, 12mo. 

2. Notice sur une Nouvelle Espéce de Magnolia. Paris, 8vo. 

The Chevalier Soulange-Bodin, as we have before observed, is a pro- 
prietor who cultivates a handsome collection of plants, as well to gratify 
a taste for botany, as to sell and exchange. The first of the above pam- 


438 Catalogue of Works 


phlets is to inform the public, that since 1823 he has devoted his fortune and 
his leisure to the formation of a grand horticultural establishment at Fro- 
mont, near Paris. This establishment he describes as a Central Depot and 
Methodical Collection of choice plants, having at once the character of a 
nursery and a museum, where the amateur, the horticulturist, and the 
botanist will find every thing that may gratify their tastes, their speculations, 
and their researches. In order to promote his views, he invites all the 
botanists and horticulturists of Europe to inform him of the most remark- 
able plants in their respective countries; and the inhabitants of other 
regions of the globe, captains of vessels, and travellers, he requests to send 
him seeds and plants of every thing interesting. He gives directions for 
packing seeds, which are not materially different from those of Mr. Lindley 
(Gard. Mag. 535). Small seeds he directs to be put in paper, others 
between layers of fine dry sand, and both placed in vessels hermetically 
closed. Oily seeds should be deposited separately in sand very fine and 
very dry. All the expense of carriage will be paid, and les diverses pro- 
positions qui lui seront faites taken into consideration. Communications, 
seeds, or plants, may be addressed, Jardin de Fromont, M. le Chevalier 
Soulange-Bodin, a Paris, rue Sainte Anne, No. 44. Toso spirited an indi- 
vidual we wish every success. 

The Magnolia described in the second tract is a hybrid between M. con- 
spicua and purpurea, the former being the female parent. Mr. Mackay 
of the Clapton nursery, who has seen it in flower, thinks it will be a very 
valuable addition to the Magnolias. It has the leaves of M. conspicua, but a 
little stronger, the same form of flower, but the petals tinged with purple 
and rose colour, and nearly the same odour. 


Tesson-Maisonneuve, M. Manuel du Pécheur Francais; a General Treatise 
on Fishes and Fishing. Paris, 18mo. Many Plates. 5 fr. 


Sea fish are not included in this treatise ; but a number of fresh-water 
fishes are described, and the art of fishing for them treated of. Part IV. 
treats of ponds, stews, and reservoirs. 


Payen et Chevalier, MM. Traité de la Pomme de Terre. Paris, 8vo. 

This is one of the most complete treatises which has appeared on the 
potato, What is related respecting its culture affords little worth re- 
peating to our readers. ‘The varieties known in France which are the most 
productive in nutritive matter are, 1. the New York; 2. the Turlusine; 
3. the Bread Fruit; and, 4. the Bloc. The variety preferred in Paris is 
called la Hollande jaune. The different uses to which the potato may be 
applied are the thirty-one following : — 

1, 2,5. Its haulm, ina green state, is good food both for cattle and sheep; 
dried and burned the ashes afford potash, or will form artificial nitre beds. 

4, The tubers, in a frozen state, afford starch, and, by distillation, spirit. 

5. Potatoes, young or old, may be eaten roasted, steamed, or boiled. 

6. They may be made into bread with one third part of flour. 

7. Soups of every kind may be made of them; they may be roasted, 
fried, or eaten in salads. 

8. With the flour of potatoes every description of pastry thay be formed. 

9. Converted into fecula, or starch, or cut into slices and dried by steam, 
they may be preserved for any length of time. 

10. Vermicelli, rice, and tapioca, articles which may be made of the flour 
or starch of any plant, may of course be formed from them. ) 

11 : 12, 15. They are mixed with gravy; they are made into paste and 
starch. Ae 

14, Mixed with stucco they form an improved plaster. 

15. They nourish every description of domestic animal, and during win- 
ter are eaten by hares and rabbits. 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 439 


16. Cut into slicés, and thrown in a certain proportion into caldrons 
of boiling water, they prevent the sediment of water from adhering to the 
sides and bottoms of such vessels. 

17. They form a wash or thin plaster for buildings, which may be 
coloured by soot, ochre, or other colours, as washes of Ilme are co- 
loured in this country. 

18. Roasted to a brown state, and ground to powder, they make a very 
good coffee. _ . 

19. Crushed, they are employed for whitening linen and other cloths. 

20. The water expressed from bruised potatoes is a rapid promoter of 
the germination of seeds. 

21, 22. The fecula, or starch, with sulphuric acid, is converted into 
syrup, from which a species of sugar may be obtained, analogous to cas- 
sonade (moist sugar). 

23. With soot and other mixtures this syrup makes an admirable 
blacking. 4 

24. Crushed potatoes, or their fecula, will afford spirit by distillation. 

25. The potato may be cultivated in caves and cellars, which resource 
might have saved Missolonghi. We were rather surprised at this remark 
of Messrs. Payen and Chevalier, as every gardener knows that the young 
potatoes formed in cellars are merely a remodification or transfer of the 
nutriment contained in the old potato, and as this transfer is always 
made at a great loss of nutriment, if the besieged at Missolonghi had enough 
of potatoes to plant their cellars, it would have been more profitable for 
them to have eaten them as they were, than to have encouraged them 
to form new tubers. 

26, 27. The water contaftied in the tubers of young potatoes may be 
employed for dyeing grey, and the blossom furnishes a beautiful yellow. 

28,29. The water of potato blossoms cleans cloth of cotton, wool, and 
silk, and assists in the manufacture of artificial soda. 

50. A potato diet cures the scurvy. 

51. The sediment of the fecula, mixed with the powder of charcoal, 
may be made into little billets, or bricks, either for building or burning. 

All these uses are independen: of the application of the apples or fruit 
of the potato, the water of which, when immature, might probably be 
used as in 27, 28, and 29.; and when ripe, like the tomata. The tender tops 
may be used as spinage. (G. Mag. 553.) 


Pinteux, senior Butcher and Syndic of the Shambles of Paris: Réflections 
sur la Production et la Population des Bestiaux en France. Paris, 8vo. 


Bonafous, M. Mathieu, of Turin, -a Botanist and Cultivator, Author of 
several Works on the Mulberry and Silk Worms: Recherches sur les 
Moyens de remplacer la Feuille de Murier par une autre Substance propre 
au Ver & Soie, et sur Emploi du résidu des Cocons comme Engrais. 
Paris, 8vo. 

The leaves of lettuce, of the rose, bramble, dandelion, pellitory, hemp, 
the hop, and fig, will keep the silk-worm alive, but not enable it to produce 
silk. M. Bonafous has found that the only plant worth notice as a sub- 
stitute for mulberry leaves is the Myagrum sativum, L., an annual plant of 
the family of cruciferze, indigenous in most parts of the Centinent. M.B. 
fed worms with the leaves of this plant alone for sixteen days; at the end.of 
that time a number were found dead, but those which remained alive being 
supplied with mulberry leaves, acquired strength and made very good cocons. 
Thus it is of some value to know that in a case of necessity the silk-worm 
may be kept alive for ten or twelve days on other leaves than those of the 
mulberry. According to Dandolo, it is the resinous matter contained in.the 
leaves of this tree which, elaborated in the stomach of the worm, enables 
it to produce silk By analysing the leaves of a great number of plants, 


440 | Catalogue of Works 


perhaps some might be found possessing a resin similar to that of the mul 
berry ; or perhaps some compot of resin and the leaves of some plant might 
be prepared or cooked, and the worms fed with it as sheep are with oil-cake. 


Leuchs, T. C.: Translated from the German of A. Bulos; L’Art de conserver 
les Substances alimentaires, &c. Paris, 12mo. 


This work is divided into four books: 1. Operations for preserving sub- 
stances, and prolonging their duration; 2. Application of those operations 
to alimentary substances of the first necessity ; 3. Places and utensils; 4. The 
theory of the art. 

Aubergier, M. Nouvelle Méthode de Vinification, &c. Paris, 12mo. 


Sageret, M. Member of the Central Agricultural Society of Paris: Mé- 
moire sur les Cucurbitacées, principalement sur le Melon, avec des Consi- 

dérations sur la Production des Hybrides, des Variétés, &c. Paris, 8vo. 

The Author, elsewhere honourably mentioned (Gard. Mag. 65.), proposes, 
1. To determine and describe the different species and varieties; 2. To 
ascertain to what extent these species and varieties intermingle by fecund- 
ation, either spontaneously or artificially; and, 3. To study their culture. 
He gives a project of nomenclature, by which the cucumber, melon, water- 
melon, and pumpkin are made distinct genera; but as this tract is an- 
nounced as only the forerunner of a more extensive treatise on the same 
subject, we shall defer for the present any further examination of M. Sa- 
geret’s arrangement. 


GERMANY. 


Schwerz, N., Director of the Experimental Agricultural Institution of the 
King of Wurtemberg, Author of some excellent Works on the Agriculture 
of the Netherlands and Alsatia: Anleitung zum praktischen Ackerbau, &c. 
Instructions on Practical Agriculture. Stuttgard, 8vo. 15 Plates. 5 flor. 


Braun, Gustave: Bericht iiber meinen zweiten Versuch niit dem Anbau des 
Astragalus Beeticus, &c. Notice of my Second Essay on the Cultivation 
of Astragalus Boeticus as a substitute for Coffee. Nuremberg, 8vo. 


Vander-Plaat, D. M., of Leuwarden: Ueber den Anbau des Astragalus, &c. 
On the Culture and Use of Astragalus Beeticus as a substitute for Coffee. 


The plant alluded to in these two memoirs is already cultivated to such 
an extent in some parts of Germany, that the seeds have become an article 
of commerce, like the roots of chiccory, and the carrot, for the same pur- 
pose. The culture is the same as that of the common pea, with this differ- 
ence, that the pods of the Astragalus are gathered as they ripen. Two 
thirds of the seeds are mixed with one third of coffee-beans, roasted to- 
gether, put in bottles or vases well corked or closed, and taken out as 
wanted to be ground. It is sold at the same price as café a chicorée, which 
is generally about one third part cheaper than the true coffee. Coffee from 
burnt carrots is not much in use at present, but was common in the north 
of Germany and Poland in 1813. 

It might be worth while for some of our readers to try these seeds, and 
also those of several others of our indigenous Leguminose, such as La- 
thyrus, Vicia Cracca, Lathyroides, and other species. 

Graffen, F. G. Auf Erfahrung gegriindeter Unterricht, &c. Directions for 

the Management of Sheep, founded on Experience. Leipsic, 8vo. 9 gr. 

Scholser: Fasslicher Unterricht ueber die Bienen. Instructions for the 
Management of Bees. Brunn, 8vo. 12 gr. 

Andre, C. Abhandlungen aus dem Forstund Jagdwesen. Dissertations on 


Forest Management and the Chase. Prague, 4to. 2 yr. thlr. 16 gr. (2 
rix-dollars, 16 groschen.) 


on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 441 


Behlen : Clima, Lage, und Boden in ihrer Wechselwirkung, &c. Climate, 
Position, and Soil, considered with respect to their reciprocal action and 
their influence on the Vegetation of Forests. Bamberg, 8vo. 


Reider, T Das ganze des Kardendistelbaues. The whole Culture of the 
Fullers’ Thistle. Nuremberg, 12mo. 8 gr. 


Voght, Baron von, a Proprietor and Cultivator at Flotbec on the Elbe, near 
Hamburg. Meine Ansicht der Statik des Landbaues. My view of the 
. Statistics of Agriculture. Hamburg, 8vo. 


Baron Voght has conceived the idea of expressing the capacities of soils 
for cultivation, by figures, in a very ingenious manner, but we fear rather of 
too intricate and fanciful a nature to be of much use. He expresses the 
fertility of a soil by the produce of two numbers or factors, representing 
riches and power, which are multiplied into each other ; for example, if the 
power of a soil be 8°, and the riches 45°, the fertility will be 360°. By 
power he understands the inherent properties of the earth which compose 
a soil, exclusive of organic matter; by riches he understands the organic 
matter contained among the earths; and by fertility, the power of the 
earths and the organic matter combined, or the power of what is called soil 
in the proper sense of that term. Having determined the degree of fertility 
necessary to raise different crops, in preparing a field for any of them, the 
square root of the fertility of the crop is to be compared with the power 
and riches of the soil, and the number or factor of the former, if deficient, 
is to be raised by mechanical operations, or the mixture of other earths ; 
while that of the latter is to be raised by manures. Provided the 4/2 of 
the requisite degree of fertility be produced, the Baron is indifferent whether 
it arise from power and riches, or power only. This key to the Baron’s 
system will enable any reader of a mathematical turn to apply it to almost 
every part of agriculture. As an ingenious fancy, we have thought it worth 
noticing, with a view to the mental exercise of young cultivators. 


Huber, M. Ueber die Urbarmachung des Flugsandes. On rendering drift 
sands culturable. Berlin, 8vo. 


A variety of plants are recommended to be planted with a view of fixing 
light inland sands, and the common pine as the best. 


Angualfy, M. A. Giconomie der Landwirthschaft. Rural Economy. Pest. 
2 vols. 8vo. 5pl. 2r. thir. 


Wurtembergisher, Correspondenz des Landwirthschaft Vereins, Correspond- 
ence of the Wurtemburg Agricultural Society. Vol. 8. 


This agricultural newspaper appears weekly in Stuttgard, and sometimes 
contains ingenious papers on rural subjects. M. Jaeger (p. 139.) has long 
experienved the good effects of watering frozen vines in the spring, rather 
than leaving them to be thawed by the sun. He proposes to extend the 
practice to vineyards, making use of fire-engines for distributing the water. 
Professor Schoen (p. 190.) states that every description of bread corn, when 
intended for seed, should attain complete maturity before it is reaped ; but 
on the contrary, when corn is intended to be converted into flour, it should 
be cut eight or nine days before it be fully ripe. Experience, he says, has 
fully proved, that such grains as from their maturity detach themselves from 
the ears, always produce the finest plants, from being larger and more per- 
fect in their conformation. The proper period for reaping corn destined for 
the mill, is when the grains being pressed between the fingers yield to it, 
and become a viscous mass. It requires a longer time to dry before it can 
be carried to the rick-yard, but the flour produced from it is much more 
white, and more abundant, than from matured grain. In some parts of Hun- 


442 Catalogue of New Works. 


gary, Bohemia, and Germany, this practice has been known from time im- 
memorial ; \t was kept a long time a secret, because the flour so obtained 
was very much sought after, and always brought a much higher price than 
the best flour from ripe corn. 

Dr. Mawz, who has cultivated the tobacco for many years, sows it in small 
pots in the autumn, preserves it through the winter in a frame, or other- 
wise protected from the frost, and transplants in the fields in March. By 
this practice he finds the plants attain to a much greater size than when 
sown on heat in the spring, and afterwards transplanted. On this we may 
observe, that most, if not all annual plants will attain to a much greater size 
than we usually see them, when so treated. The common purple candy- 
tuft, (Mr. Charles Rauch informs us,) under similar management, grows from 
three to four feet high in the gardens about Vienna. Every one must have 
observed how much stronger garden annuals self-sown in autumn are, than 
those which are sown in the spring; the same of winter and spring weeds, 
and of winter and spring wheat. 


Franque, Dr. Die Lehre von dem Korperbau, &c. Theory of the Structure 
of the Body, of the Diseases, and of the General Treatment ef Domestic 
Animals. Wiesbaden, 8vo. 1 thlr. 


Schuster, J. & M. Haberle, Professors in the University of Hungary: De 
ae Noxa. On the Accidents to which Sheep are liable from the Seeds 
of Stipa or Feather-grass. Pesth, 12mo. 


This is a very curious pamphlet. It appears that Stipa pennata and 
capitata ‘are very common in certain pastures in Hungary, near the village 
of Berczel ; that the seeds which are furnished with a pappus, are carried 
about with the wind, and falling upon different objects, stick there, as 
seeds similarly furnished do, by meaas of the sharp point of the seed; that 
they fall upon the backs of the sheep, and by the hygrometrical action of 
the pappus, and the motion of the sheep, are impelled mechanically (Enc. of 
Gard. § 831.) through the wool, penetrate the skin, pass through the flesh 
to the intestines, and they have even been found in the liver. The morbid 
effects of this process is the disease called by these professors stipe: noxa. 
It commences with an inflammation of the skin, then follow want of ap- 
petite, fever, want of sleep, great restlessness, and finally death, at least 
where the seeds of the stipa have penetrated any of the vital organs. 


HoLLAND AND THE NETHERLANDS. 


Schuurman Stekhoven, H., Curator of the Botanic Garden, Leyden : Kruid- 
kundig Kunstwoordenbeck. Dictionary of Botanical Terms. Leyden, 
8vo. a 


Michel, P. Agrostologie Belgique, ou Herbier des Graminées, des Cyperacées, 
et des Joncées, qui croissent en Belgique. Brussels, 1st and 2d centuries. 
2 vol. fo. 


Dried Specimens of grasses not arranged im any order whatever. 


Russia anp Po.wanp. 


Parlof, M. Zemliédeltcheskaia Chimia. Agricultural Chemistry, includ- 
ing a general Treatise on Agriculture and Rural Economy. Moscow, svo. 


‘Tsorne, M., Lieutenant-General of Infantry : Tégénédelnik dlia okhotnikof 
do Lochadei. Weekly Magazine for the Use of Amateurs of Horses. 
Moscow, 12 vol. 8vo. 93 pl. 90 roubles. 


This work may be described as a complete body of information on the 


subject of horses, partly original, but principally translated from the Ger- 
man of Tenneker of Dresden. 


On Agriculture and Rural Affairs. 4.43 


Apraxin, M., a Nobleman possessing one of the largest houses in Moscow : 
Zemliédieltchesky Journal, &c. General Report made to the Society of 
Agriculture and Rural Economy in Moscow. Moscow, 8vo. 


From this pamphlet we learn that peasants are sent from the remotest 
parts of the empire, even from Kamtchatka, to the agricultural school at 
Moscow ; and there they are said to make so much progress, that much 
national improvement is anticipated. 


Anon. Avantages résultant de Introduction de la Culture variée des 
Terres. Warsaw, 8vo. 


The author cultivates his own estate in the neighbourhood of Warsaw; 
on which he informs us he has introduced an improved succession of crops 
in the British manner. He is the author of an Agricultural Catechism in 
the Polish language. ‘See Bibliotheka Polska, n. 4.) 


AMERICA. 


Memoirs of the Board of Agriculture of the State of New York. Published 
by authority. Albany, 3 vols. 8vo, 


The New York Board of Agriculture was organised in 1820; the first 
volume of its transactions was published in 1821, and the third and last in 
the beginning of 1826, when the Society became extinct in consequence of 
the expiration of its charter. Besides a number of original papers written 
in America, these volumes contain extracts and abridgments from British 
works, in almost every department of agriculture and horticulture. The 
selection seems to have been made with great judgment, and the work can- 
not fail to be of much real use in the country where it was published. As 
soon as we can find room we shall extract several notices from it, especially 
on the subject of insects. The second and third volumes were edited by 
Jesse Buel, Esq. F.H.S.,'a distinguished cultivator, whom we hope to 
reckon among the number of our contributors. 


Art. III. Books preparing for Publication, &c. 


The Transplanter’s Guide; or, a Practical Essay on the Removal of Forest- 
Trees and Underwood in a Full-grown State; being an attempt to place the Art 
on fixed principles, and to apply it to general purposes, useful and ornamental. 
Interspersed with Observations on Picturesque and Park Scenery, and the 
Cultivation of Woods. To which is added, a Review of the principal Forest- 
Trees cultivated in Britain, and some account of their uses, properties, and 
general character. By Sir Henry Srewart, Bart., LL.D. F.R.S.E., &c. 
Edin. 8vo. In the press. 


An Introduction to Botany for the Use of Gardeners and Farmers, in which 
both the Linnean and Jussieuean Classifications will be explained, and each Order 
of both Systems illustrated with an engraving of a dissected flower, &c.— 
(See p. 434.) bc 

A Drawing Book for young Gardeners and Farmers, calculated for Self-instruc- 
tion in drawing Ground Plans and Maps, Architectural Elevations, Machinery, 
Landscapes, Figures, Flowers, and Insects, including preparatory Lessons in 


Perspective and Geometry. ; : ie 
These works will be sold at such prices as will bring them within the reach of 


eyery journeyman gardener. ; 
Dr. Hooker’s Exotic Flora, (Gard. Mag. 47 and 60), itis said will be discontinued, 
and the Botanical Magazine hitherto conducted by Dr. Sims, continued by 
Dr. Hooker. , 
Some account of Horlus Carlsruhanus, Hortus Croomensis, and other books sent 
us, will be given in next number. 


Vou. I. No. 4. H H 


444: 


PART III. 
MISCELLANEOUS INTELLIGENCE. 


Art. I. Foreign Notices. 


FRANCE. 


PATENT Ice House at St. Quen, near Paris. This immense repository 
is a hundred feet in diameter, and the interior is said to be contrived 
in a very superior manner to prevent the thawing of the ice, of which it 
will hold upwards of ten millions of pounds. It has hitherto been supplied 
from the Seine and the canal of St. Denis, but experiments have been 
made which prove, that even in the mildest winters the ice establishment 
of St. Quen will collect enough from its own territory (probably by ex- 
posing a thin sheet of water in an isolated porous basin,) to supply a very 
great consumption. The directors of this establishment have also occupied 
themselves with plans for rendering the use of ice more commodious, 
and less expensive to the consumers. Instead of the latter having to send 
for the ice, it will be sent to them, in vessels calculated to prevent all loss 
by thawing. They offer to the public, 1. A fountain, which will preserve 
wine, water, or other liquids at the temperature of 52° Fahrenheit from 
morning till evening. 2. Portable ice-vessels, to contain from one hundred 
to five hundred pounds of ice, and which will preserve it from twelve to 
fifteen days. 25. Refrigerators, for cooling the chambers of sick persons, 
offices, and workshops. — The glaciéres portatives, may be seen or pur- 
chased at Paris, tue Neuve-Saint-Augustin, No. 3. (Revue Encycel. Avril, - 
1826. p. 264.) 
' Paragréles. A report on this invention has been made to the Academy 
of Sciences at Paris, which is favourable to their utility. “A society of 
assurance against the effects of hail is already formed on the faith of the 
success of paragréles. (Bull. des Sciences Agricoles. Juil. 1826, p. 61.) 
Copperas. This metallic salt is known to be poisonous to plants; so 
much so that it is said the roots of weeds may be killed by mowing them 
with a scythe, the blade of which has been sharpened with a stone pre- 
viously steeped in sulphate of iron. We notice this as a specimen of 
absurdity founded in fact. (See Bull. de la Soc. @ Agric. de ? Hérault. Mai, 
1825, p. 165.) Ifweeds can be so killed, then ground may be manured by 
being dug with a spade stuck every now and then in a dunghill. ae 
To destroy the weevil among corn. Lay fleeces of wool, which have not 
been scoured, on the grain; the oily matter attracts the insects among the 
wool where they soon die, from what cause is not exactly known. M. B.C. 
Payrandeau related to the Philomathic Society of Paris, that his father had 
made the discovery in 1811, and had _ practised it on a large scale since. 
(Bull. des Sciences Agricoles, Juill. 1826, p. 24.) 
A Society for the Amelioration of Domestic Animals has been proposed 
by M. Sénac, Editor of the Bulletin des Sciences Agricoles. (See that Work 
Jor May, 1826, p. 505.) 
An Agricultural Establishment under the patronage of the king, and 
the administration of a council of tea persons, has been formed for the 


\ 


Notices. — Holland and Germany. 4.4.5 


purpose of improving a portion of government territory, valued at a 
million of louis. (Constitutionnel, Avril 28. 1826.) Another company is 
proposed to be formed for embanking certain lands in the province of 
Britany. There are to be a great number of shares, and great profits are 
of course promised. (Bull. des Sciences Agricoles, Mai, 1826.) 

Lrianon Nursery, near Rouen. (Encycl. of Gard.) A correspondent has 
sent us the following information respecting this establishment : “ Messrs. 
Calvert and Co., Englishmen, who have undertaken it, profess to show the 
foreign cultivators that, with care and attention, plants may be as easily 
cultivated in France as in England, which the French gardeners are said 
to deny, on account of the difference of climate. In order to effect 
this purpose, they began with French gardeners, but were soon obliged to 
have recourse to Britons. With these they propagated different species of 
heaths, and various Cape, Botany Bay, and Chinese plants, with perfect 
success. The French gardeners were surprised to see white sand used 
for this purpose, thinking that the whole of the pot was filled with that 
material. 

“The chief object in establishing this nursery was to cultivate plants 
there which succeed better in France than in England, such as roses, 
oranges, &c., and then bring them over to this country for sale. A cargo 
of roses is in consequence sent over every year from Rouen, and partly 
sold wholesale to the nurserymen and partly by retail. The list is said 
to contain some hundreds of names, and next year we are promised 
about one hundred and twenty varieties of China roses; between seventy 
and eighty varieties of Noisettes, and seven or eight varieties of Rosa 
odorata.” (C. June 26.) 


HOLLAND. 


Hay and Pasture Grasses. The Agricultural Society*of Amsterdam have 
offered their first medal, and a sum in ducats, for the best essay on the 
grasses of Holland, to be given in by December, 1826. (Bul. Univ.) 

Enrichment of Down Lands. In 1805 a French camp was established 
near Ostend, on the downs bordering the sea. Its surface for a foot and 
a half deep was composed of shiftiag sand, which rendered the situation 
scarcely habitable. In a short time this camp was surrounded by forti- 
fications of turf; the barracks were built of turf, and covered with thatch, 
and each house had a seat before it, and a garden behind containing excellent 
kitchen crops, and ornamented with pots of flowers and shell-work. The 
soil was rendered fertile by the soldiers bringing sacks of earth on their 
backs, from half a league to a league distance. Wells were dug in various 
places, and the improvement was completed by continual watering. (Rev. 
Eincycl, Decem. 1825.) 


GERMANY. 


Bavaria. The King has recently founded and endowed an Institute for 
extending a theoretical and practical knowledge of agriculture. The In- 
stitute is divided into three classes, in each of which the number of pupils 
is fixed, and the instruction public and gratuitous. In the first class, a 
knowledge of agricultural labour, of the most approved methods in use, 
and of the management of the different agricultural implements, &c. is 
inculcated. In order to be admitted into this class, the pupils must have 
a healthy constitution, adapted to agricultural labour, such elementary 
knowledge as is usually acquired at country schools, and be at least sixteen 
years of age. In the second class, theory and practice are united; the 
labours of the pupils are directed by experienced professors, and a 

HH 2 


AAG Notices. — Denmark and Sweden. 


knowledge of botany, zoology, and natural philosophy, in as far as these 

“sciences are connected with agriculture, inculeated. The third class is 
intended to form agriculturists, who may eventually aid in extending the 
boundaries of the science, and is limited to those who have previously 
attended the second class. 

Charring Wood. M. de la Chabeaussiére chars wood in fixed kilns made 
of turf much in the same way that lime is burnt in this country. The 
advantages, he says, are saving of time and labour, and less loss ofimaterial. 
(Schles. Gesellschaft, Sc. 1824.) 

Preservation of Grain. Mr. Gall proposes to place large barrels end- 
wise on one another, and connecting their bottoms and tops by tubes, which 
have sliding stoppers. All the barrels being filled but the under one, 
when it is wished to air the grain, the sliders are drawn, and the grain drops 
from one into the other, &c. (Allg. Handl. Zeitung, 1825. Nov.) 

Erysimum, or Wild Mustard. In Franconia this plant is extremely 
troublesome in the fields of barley, in which it rises so high as to be cut 
along with the crop, and consequently infest the sample of grain. The 
way the farmers take to lessen the evil, is to steep the barley, before sowing 
it, in the drainings of a dunghill till the seeds of the mustard germinate. 
The barley is then taken out and sown along with the sprouted mustard ; 
the latter of course does not grow. (Bul. Univ.) 


DEN MARK. 


Salt as Manure. In the Nye Landekonomischer Tidender (New 
Agricultural Journal), published in Copenhagen, an account is given of an 
experiment to try the effect of salt in the culture of potatoes and cabbage, 
but the produce in cabbage was not so good as usual, and no difference 
was produced on the crop of potatoes. (ii. Band. 1 St.) 

Royal Farm. Near the palace of Frederiksborg the king has a farm, 
called Faurholm, which has been laid out on a most extensive scale by 
Mr. Nielson. “I saw thirty-two pair of horses here, harrowing at one 
time. The land is: cultivated in the English manner, and Hilkington’s 
system of draining had produced wonderful effects. All implements of 
husbandry used; were made under Mr. Nielson’s directions, on English 
principles. Hedging was likewise carried on to some extent. Mr. Nielson 
has, however, reaséms of a local nature for not extending fencing generally. 
Hence the king’s farm, in many places, resembles a tract of land in Cam- 
bridgeshire, which, from its bleak and bald appearance, made me think 
I was not in England. On this farm Mr. Nielson has reared a most 
beautiful breed of cattle, from a Zealand bull and a Jutland cow. When 
I first saw them, they gave me as much pleasure as a remarkable breed 
of cattle gave Mr.Gilpin. His description may answer to both, being 
elegantly and neatly formed, rather small, and generally red. Their horns 
are short,. their coats fine, and their heads small. The Danish breed are 
excellent milkers, and yield fine beef. I was particularly pleased to see 
some fine ploughs, constructed on English models, which were to be used 
at a ploughing match on the king’s farm, the first, I believe, that had 
yet taken place in Zealand.” (Feldborg’s Denmark.) 


SWEDEN. 


Professor Agardh, who has kindly undertaken to send us the horticultural 
news of his country, informs us that the greatest improvements at present 
making in Sweden are by the Count Bonde, on his estate of Safstalis- 


tow, near Stockholm, some particulars respecting which he promises us 
ina month or two. (August 22.) 


Notices. — Russia, Poland, and North America, 447 


RUSSIA AND POLAND. 


Potash of Russia. This alkali is obtained from every species of wood 
indiscriminately, but chiefly from the roots of the Scotch fir, when the 
trunk has been cut down for timber. The ashes, when lixiviated, are col- 
lected and packed in casks, which before they are exported undergo an 
examination in presence of the foreign merchant who purchases them. 
(Edin. Philos. Journ. No. 23.) < 

Horticulture at St. Petersburgh. The following memoranda have been 
sent us by an eminent English gardener there :— 

Peaches grown to ripen in August and September, are not so good fla- 
voured as‘those ripened in May, June, and July; as frequently in August 
and September we have cold nights; and it is observed, that if the ther- 
mometer remains below 6° of heat (say 45° Kah.) for any time, the peaches 
and apricots become insipid, and without flavour. Apple trees about St. Pe- 
tersburgh generally remain unprotected in the openair, but sometimes in very 
severe winters they are injured by extreme frosts. Plums rarely ripen 
unassisted with glass, the season being too short. Cherries of the best 
sorts are all protected by being planted in large sheds, and covered with 
shutters during the winter. LHarly in the spring these are removed, and 
entirely exposed to the open air, in which manner they ripen to perfection. 
Apricots force equally well as peaches: there is a house in the Taurida 
garden containing nine trees planted in the ground, which frequently pro- 
duce 5000 fruits. (7. A.) 

Burning Steppes in Siberia. After the thawing of the snow, the dried 
herbage on the surface is set fire to, in order that it may not injure the 
growth of the new vegetation, which springs up from self-sown secds ; 
for there are few perennial plants in that country. The flames extend 
in all directions, and travel over extensive tracts of country, and the 
appearance at a distance is like an immense ocean of flame. (Annali Uni- 
versali, §c. August, 1825.) 

Sandomir Wheat, commonly called Polish Wheat. 'This variety is culti- 
vated in Moravia, by M. de Harkenfeld, administrator of the domains 
of that state, who describes it as growing upon an inferior soil, requiring 
less seed per acre, admitting of being later sown, more productive, and 
bearing a higher price than the common wheat. Sandomir is the name 
of a Polish province. (Bul. Univ.) 


NORTH AMERICA. 


The Timber of the Scotch Pine is said to be much improved in quality 
by being cut down in May when it has begun to grow, and then immersed 
in water. This is the practice in Virginia, and other parts of America, with 
all the pine tribe, and it is said by the inhabitants to retain the turpentine 
and resin more effectually than by cutting in winter, or cutting at any 
season without steeping in water. Of course the durability of the timber 
will materially depend on the quantity of these principles which are fixed 
in it. Deciduous trees the Americans always cut down in mid-winter. (J. B.) 

The tender Tops and Leaves of the Potato, boiled and dressed as spinage, 
or boiled with salt meat, are very palatable, while the plants are not much 
injured by being deprived of them. (Canadian Paper.) ; 

Feeding Swine in Mewico. Fine breeds of pigs are kept for their fat, 
which is used as a substitute for butter in Spanish cookery: the offal fat 
is manufactured inte soap, and the blood into a kind of black pudding, and 
sold to the poor. The swine are fed with maize, “slightly moistened and 
scattered at stated hours on the ground, which, in the yard as well as the 


HH 3 


44.3 Notices. — China. 


place where they sleep, is kept perfectly dry and clean. They are attended 
by Indians with every possible care,— there is a cold bath on the pre- 
mises, which they are obliged frequently to use, as cleanliness is considered 
essential to their acquiring that enormous load of fat from which the 
principal profit is derived. Their ease and comfort seem also in every 
respect to be studiously attended to; and the occupation of two Indian 
lads will cause a smile on the countenances of my musical readers, when 
they are informed that they are employed, from morning till night, in 
settling any disputes or little bickerings that may arise among the pigs, 
either in respect to rank or condition, and in singing them to sleep. The 
boys are chosen for the strength of their lungs, and their taste and judg- 
ment in delighting the ears and lulling the senses of the swine ; they succeed 
each other in chanting during the whole day, to the apparent gratification 
of their brute audience.” (Bullock’s Mewico, vol.i. p. 251.) 

Chinampas, improperly called floating Gardens. The description of these 
by Humboldt falls greatly short in singularity, to that previously given 
by the Abbé Clavigero; and that of Mr. Bullock falls equally short of 
the former: so that what was considered one of the wonders of the 
world thirty years ago, when it has undergone the test of close examin- 
ation, comes at last to be little more than an ordinary appearance; and 
a chinampa in the Mexican lake, differs only from a small osier holt in the 
Thames, in being planted with cabbages and potatoes instead of willows. 
“They are artificial islands, about fifty or sixty yards long, and not more 
than four or five wide, separated by ditches of three or four yards in 
width, and are made by taking the soil from the intervening ditch, and 
throwing it on the chinampa, by which means the ground is raised gener- 
ally about a yard, and thus forms a small fertile garden, covered with 
culinary vegetables, fruits, and flowers. Mexico receives an ample supply 


from these sources.” ‘Bullock's Mewico, p. 176. 
i) 


2 


CHINA. 


Chinese Work on Agriculture and Gardening, entitled Tchoung-kia-pao. 
This work, in four volumes, begins, like that of Hesiod, with the elements of 
morality, and then proceeds to treat of all that is necessary to be known of 
the country, agriculture, gardening, laws, and medicine. This work formed 
part of the Chinese writings on agriculture which were excluded from the 
general proscription of books in the third century after the Christian era. 
The Chinese have a fine poem on gardening published in 1086. The author 
is one of the first Chinese writers, and the greatest minister that it has 
produced. His garden, which gives a general idea of the style of Chinese 
gardening as an art of taste, contains only 20 acres of land. An apartment 
containing 5000 volumes is placed by the author at the head of its 
useful beauties. On the south is seen, in the midst of the waters, cas- 
cades, galleries with double terraces, hedges of rose and pomegranate 
trees; on the west a solitary portico, evergreen trees, cottages, meadows, 
sheets of water, surrounded with turf, and a labyrinth of rocks; on the 
north, cottages placed as if by chance on little hiils, groves of bam- 
boos with gravel walks; on the west a small plain, a wood of cedars, 
odoriferous plants, medicinal plants, shrubs, citron trees, orange trees, a 
walk of willows, a grotto, a warren, islands covered with aviaries, bridges 
of wood and stone, a pond, some old firs, and an extensive view over the 
river Kiang. Such was the delightful spot where the author of the poem 
amused himself with hunting, fishing, and botany. At that time we had 
no garden in Europe to be compared to it, nor any man who could describe 
it in good poetry. Madame Dubocage translated a Chinese idyll into 


Notices. —- Eingland. 4.4.9 


verse, entitled “ The Labourer,” and which has the same date as this poem 
on gardening. The imposing ceremony of the commencement oF the 
labours by the emperor himself in the beginning of spring is still mor. 

ancientin China. It was established 150 years. before the Christian a 
The: soldiers in China plough, sow, and reap. In the tribunals of ‘ie 
empire there is a president, superintendent, and director-general. of agri 

culture. (Olivier de Serres, Historical Introd. to the edit. of 1804.) oa 


Art. II. Domestic Notices. 


ENGLAND. 


Ross Horticullwral Society. The ninth exhibition of this distinguished an 

Increasing institution, took place on the 26th of July. This being the last show 
this year for flowers, a full meeting was expected, and it was realised in the 
attendance of upwards of 250 subscribers and their friends. The room on the 
opening was not so much crowded, in consequence of the heat experienced at the 
previous meeting ; a succession, however, of subscribers kept entering till a late 
hour, and the interest never flagged, and the removal of the plants was postponed 
an hour at the request of the company. The collection at the door from the 
public much exceeded any previous meeting ; also the sale proceeds, (except 
the Autumn first show,) and upon the whole this was the most numerously, and 
best attended meeting, since the society was established. The ground fond 
was probably never better filled with choice and splendid varieties of hot-house, 
green-house, and hardy plants, and the mass of foliage and flowers was singularly 
unique and beautiful. Several very large well-bloomed specimens of the danple 
and single oleander, blue, and white campanula, towering above their compeers 
with the purple, blue, red, and white hydrangea, contributed much to the group, 
and were universally admired. The stage of carnations, piccotees, and dahlias, 
contained about 300 flowers, and were, for the season, very fine; and those 
selected by the censors on the prize-stand, were fully equal to those bloomed in 
a favourable season. Mr. Miller, of Bristol, exhibited his new seedling, double 
dahlia, which for size, colour, and form, surpasses any yet grown, and is richly 
entitled to the distinguished name he has given it of George the Fourth. This 
splendid specimen must be in great request next season, by the admirers of this 
beautiful Autumnal fiower. The stage for balsams and cockscombs, exhibited 
for prizes, produced very fine specimens. The fruit-table was laden with upwards 
of five dozen plates of specimens; the gooseberries were very fine, but not equal to 
those exhibited last year, as proved by the scales, for some then weighed nearly 
20 dwts., and none now exceed 17 dwts., which was attributed to the continued 
drought. (Gloucester Jowrnal, August 5.) 

Hereford Horticultural Society. On July 21st, the third exhibition of this 
society took place in the great room of the Shire Hall. The display of fluwers 
equalled the former ones, and the show of fruit was excellent. There were 
several plates of gooseberries, all of the finest sorts ; also peaches, nectarines, &c. 
&c. ; but owing to the unpropitious season, not a single vegetable was sent for 
exhibition. (Gloucester Journal, July 29.) 

Yorkshire Horticultural Society. ‘The summer meeting of this society was held 
at the Star and Garter Inn, Kirkstall, on July 19th, Norrison Scatchard, Esq. of 
Morley, in the chair. After a few introductory remarks relative to the meeting, 
he observed, that owing to the late excessive drought, the show of flowers was 
very small, but that the show of fruit was very fine. The prizes awarded were 
very numerous. During the meeting a fine specimen of the Yucca Gloriosa, or 
Adam’s needle, the stem of which was said to be upwards of 10 feet high, and 
having upwards of 600 flowers upon it, was exhibited by the gardener of 
Messrs. Backhouse, of York. A fine specimen of the tulip tree, from the garden 
of T. B. Pease, Esq. was exhibited by Joseph Moor. A fine plate of last year’s 
apples, in an excellent state of preservation, was exhibited by the chairman, who 


HH 4 


4.50 Notices. — England. 


explained, at some length, the method of preserving them. (Leeds Mercury, 
July 22.) At the Meeting of Sept. 6th, above twenty prizes were given away to 
gentlemen’s gardeners, and nearly as many to market, gardeners and nurserymen. 
“The Hampshire Horticultural Society met at Southampton on the 4th of August. 
The display of fruits, particularly melons, grapes, apricots, and figs, was very fine. 
Captain Rainier presided. (Salisbury Journal, dugust 12., 

The Cambridge Horticultural Society have held several meetings in the course 
of the season, and awarded various prizes for fruits and flowers. 

The Lancaster Pink and Ranunculus Show was held June 23d. Twenty prizes 
were awarded for. pinks, 18 for ranunculuses, 7 for fruits, 5 for roses, 3 for green- 
house plants, and 4 for geraniums. The first prize for pinks was taken by Mr. 
Hargreaves, for Mary Anne; the second by Miss Dalton, for Cato. Grapes, 
melons, and strawberries obtained prizes ; the best pine-apple was shewn by Miss 
Towers, and the first prize for geraniums taken by Mrs. Machreth. (Com. by 
Mr. Saul.) : 

The Lancaster Carnation and Fruit Show. was°held July 20th. Thirty 
prizes were awarded for carnations, 12 for piccotees, 2 for seedlings, 2 for 
green-house plants, 2 for hardy plants, and 7 for fiuit. 

The Manchester Carnation Show, was held July 19th. Forty prizes were 
awarded for carnations, 16 for piccotees, 6 for stove plants, 6 for green-house 
plants, 7 for hardy plants, 8 for dahlias, and 37 for fruits. 

Preston Pink and Ranunculus Show, June 21st 1826. Eighteen prizes were 
awarded for pinks, 15 for ranunculuses, 4 for roses, 4 for green-house plants, 
5 for hardy plants, and 12 for fruit. Among the hardy plants, were Coreopsis 
tinctoria, and Cytisus nigricans. (IM. 8S.) 

The Preston Carnation and Fruit Show was held on July 19. Twenty seven 
prizes were awarded for carnations, 12 for piccotees, 8 for green-house plants, 
7 for hardy plants, and 13 for fruit. 

The York Carnation Show was held July 18th. Twenty-five prizes were 
awarded for carnations. 

Windsor Carnation Show, July 21. Mr. Gould, of the Royal Gardens, Wind- 
sor, carried off the first prize; and Mr. Wilmer, Nurseryman, Sudbury; Mr. - 
Humber, of Gerrard’s Cross; Mr. Kelner, of Windsor; and Mr. Weedon, 
gardener, Hillingdon; took the remaining 4 prizes. The judges were Mr. 
Lovegrove, and Mr. Hansom, florists of Windsor. (Communicated by J. P. 
Burnard, Esq:) 

The Uxbridge Carnation Show was held July 12. The first prize was taken 
by Mr. Gould, the second by Mr. Bagley, the third by Mr. Kelner, the fourth 
by Mr. Wilmer, and the fifth by Mr. Smith. 

Mr. Hogg, Florist, Paddington, has perhaps the most complete collection of car- 
nations and piccotees in the world. He has printed a catalogue of them ona 
single sheet, which may be sent by post, in which they are arranged as British, 
French, and German sorts. Some of the latter, especially the piccotees, are of 
great rarity and beauty. 

At the annual Melon Feast held lately at Southampton, the gardener of Lord 
Rodney.obtained the first prize; making the one hundred and forty-third, which, 
during twenty-six years’ service the same individual has gained, amounting in 
all to 1501. 

Gooseberry Shows. Our obliging correspondent, Mr. Saul of Lancaster, 
informs us that this year has been a very unfavourable one for gooseberries. 
Mr. Broaderton of Cheshire, informed him, that his heaviest berry this year 
weighed only 22 dwts.; whereas, last year, he had one that weighed 31 dwts. ; 
the greatest weight he has heard of this season is 23 dwts. 

Brighton Atheneum and Oriental Garden. The Committee feel it incumbent 
on them to state to the Shareholders of this Institution, the progress which they 
are now making in its establishment. The Forcing-house, which has been for 
some time erecting, is now completed; and many valuable plants have been 
removed into it. The grounds have been formed into a garden, which is so 
planned as to fit it for the erection of the Glass Conservatory, whenever the Com- 
mittee have the means of carrying that desirable and splendid object into effect. 


Notices. — England. 451 


The building of the Atheneum is commenced, and from the progress which it is 
making, there is no doubt it will be completed during the summer, The Com- 
mittee will anticipate no observations on this building, confident, that when 
finished, its beauty and convenience will be duly appreciated by all who see it. 
A Library is now forming upon an extensive scale : many of the Shareholders and 
Subscribers having promised to contribute the loan of books, for the accommodation 
of the Institution, thereby forming a central point for valuable works, to which 
all may have access, and without the necessity of the Institution, in the first 
instance, incurring any expense. (General Frederick St. John, Chairman.) 
Tulip Beds. Mr. Saul sends us a section (fig. 91.) of a tulip bed, which has 
just been put into his hands by , vl 
an extensive tulip grower in 
Lancashire, and which he thinks YY 
it may be useful to publish at [7/7 
this time, as tulips are generally Zh OF 
planted in November. The yy 
bed consists of five stratums; {// 
the bottom one (a), is composed ~/7/ 
of a mixture of manure and 
fine loam ; the second (6), of 
two fifths fine,loam, one fifth 
sand, and two fifths manure; 
the third (c), of three fifths fine 
loam; one fifth sand, and one 
fifth very rotten manure; the \ 
fourth (d), of fine loam, with | 
| 
Y 


jie 


| 


be 


sixth, or top stratum (e), of fine 
sandy loam, not too light. In 
this last stratum the bulbs are 
planted in a nucleus of pure 
sand. The bed may be of any 
length, but four feet six inches 
is the most convenient width, 
as it admits of eight tulips in 
each row across the bed; the 


advantage of this number is, that sixteen tulips may be supported by four 
rods, each rod being placed in the centre of four tulips, and a piece of leaden 
wire turned round the rod, and reaching to each of the stems, &c. (fig. 92.) The 
bulbs are planted about six —~ 
inches apart every way, and / 


from two and a half to three g 92 
inches deep. (Lancaster, Au- ) ~*~ * ~*~ 
gust 20s) ; Jb 
Yucca gloriosa. Few British 
Summers have witnessed’ so 
many of this fine plant in‘bloom 
as that which has just passed. \ 
The highest we have heard of in 


one fifth of sand; and the | 


England, is that of Mrs. Mar- 
shall, near Manchester. One 
in.the nursery of Mr. Viner, at 
Windsor, is thus described by 

Mr. Thomas Ingram, gardener 

to the Princess Augusta, at 
Frogmore, whose letter was ac- 
companied by a sketch ( fig. 93). 

‘It has been planted in the a 
nursery twelve years, and was, Ca ey ee 
probably, two years old when planted It flowered for the first time this seaso2 5 


4.52 Notices. — England. 


the height of the plant, from the ground to the summit, is twelve feet six inches ; 
the flower stalk is nine feet six inches. About forty-seven panicles grow out of 


the stalk, each of which is eighteen inches or upwards in length; with between 
twenty and thirty flowers on each panicle. The flowers are bell-shaped, white, 
with purplish stripes on each petal; they hang downwards, have a little odour, 
but not very pleasant, and remain in bloom about three weeks.’”’? Mrs. Marshall’s 
Yucca flowered in her green-house, August 4. The plant is about fourteen feet 
high; it is twenty years old, and has flowered three times. _ The flowers, which 
on each successive blooming are larger than at the former, are bell-shaped, on a 
stalk about three and a half feet high, and project from it in a conical form. (See 
p. 458.) 

Koelreuteria paniculata, like many other exotics, has bloomed remarkably strong 
this year, in consequence of the wood having been so well ripened last year. 
We have seldom two such dry warm summers in succession Specimens of the 
flowers of a tree at Ham House, Essex, were sent us, and a description of the 
tree by Mr. James Loudon, gardener there. It is between thirty and forty feet 
high, with a trunk nearly one foot in diameter, and twelve feet from the ground to 
where the first branches protrude. The branches form a conical head, thirty feet 
wide at the base; which, on the 8th of August, was completely covered with 
bright yellow blossoms, to the admiration of every body who saw it. 

There is a Constantinople Nut Tree, (Corylus Colurna), at Ham House, forty 
feet high, the trunk about three feet and a half in circumference, and clear of 
branches to the height of fourteen feet ; the branches form a flattened cone, above 

- fifty feet wide at the base, and heavily laden with nuts. 


Notices. — Lingland. 453 


Coreopsis tinctoria. (Fig. 94.) — “ Sir, — I 
send you an account of the Coreopsis splen- 
dens, of gardeners; (the C. tinctoria of Nuttal), 
which I think every one ought to know, and 
which cannot be better circulated than by your 
useful and entertaining Magazine. When first 
I procured the seed of it, I was told that it was 
atenderannual ; but I find, by experiments made 
by an amateur, and a gardener of Sussex, that 
it will stand the winter very well. Each planted — 
some young plants in pots, which they kept out 
all the winter, as far as January, when the for- 
mer, during the severe weather at that time, 
placed his under shelter: afterwards he kept 
them out, without their receiving any injury ; 
the latter never gave his plants any shelter at 
all, and still they received no injury. The 
seeds were planted as soon as any ripened, and 4 


when they came up, pricked out singly. Perhaps this might have been tried by 
others, and information given to you, but for fear it should not, I have. 
“ T remain, Sir, yours, &c. 
“ August 26. « An Amateur of Sussex.”’ 


This splendid annual is so hardy, that seeds, self-sown last autumn, in several 
gardens near London, have stood the winter, and have been in flower since May 
last. It is one of the most valuable additions to our hardy annuals which have 
been made for some years. A new and equally splendid species is now in bloom 
in the nursery of Messrs. Allen and Roger, King’s Road, which will, very pro- 
bably, be as hardy as the other. It has the leaves of C. tinctoria, and the flowers 
of C. lanceolata. (Cond.) 

Melianthus Major. W. B. writes, that he flowers this plant freely, by divest- 
ing it of suckers, and training it to a single stem; it sends out shoots at the top, 
which terminate in large, white, honey-smellmg flowers. (Stirlingshire, June.) 

Sweet-scented Cyclamen. Plants of this variety, of C. Europeum, have been 
received by Messrs. Rollison, of Tooting, from Mr. Seidel, of the Botanic Gar- 
den of Dresden, who procured them from Hungary. They were beautifully in 
flower during August and part of September. A very fine new heath, some- 
thing in the way of aristata, has also bloomed, for the first time, in this nursery. 

Pince’s Golden Nectarine. Specimens of this fruit were sent us by Messrs. 
Lucombe, Pince, and Co., Nurserymen, Exeter, for our opinion as to its merits. 
It is one of the finest coloured nectarines we ever saw, and well merits the appel- 
lation of golden; it is more than usually large, and equal in flavour to any of 
the old varieties. Were it not that we are inclined to distrust first impressions in 
tasting new fruits, we should say that it was remarkably high-flavoured. It was 
gathered on the 2d of September, and received by us on the Jth instant. Messrs. 
L. P. and Co. say, “to possess their full flavour, the fruit should remain on the 
tree until shriveled ; consequently, the specimens now sent, are, for the sake of 
carriage, rather prematurely gathered. The tree which produced the fruit now 
sent has never been budded upon any stock, but is merely the original seedling 
plant; and has produced this season about ten dozen of fine nectarines. It was 
raised by our partner, Mr. Pince, and we have called it Pince’s Golden Nec- 
tarine.” (Ezeter, September 2.) 

A Cucumber is now growing in the garden of the Rey. B. Bluett, of Hay-grass, 
near Taunton, which measures three feet six inches long! (Taunt. Cour., July.) 

White Providence Pines cut in the pinery of John Edwards, Esq., at Rheola, 
Vale of Neath, Glamorganshire. Sept. 7th, one 11 lbs. 15 0z.; circumference 
21 inches, height 10% inches, 4 gill suckers. Sept. 10th, one 14 Ibs. 12 oz. ; cir- 
cumference 26 inches, height 12 inches, 4 gill suckers. The gardener at Rheola 
is Mr. Robert Dixon. (Com. by J. H. L. Esq.) 

Ramburgh Vine. . There is now- growing in the peach-house of S. T. South- 
well, Esq., Wroxham Hall, Norfolk, a young vine, of the black Hamburgh. of 


4.54: Notices. — England. 


two years’ training. It occupies seven rafters in the house, and has produced 
the extraordinary weight of eighty pounds of grapes. This is the first season of 
its producing fruit. It was reared and trained by J. Bridges, the gardener there. 
(County Chronicle.) 

Fruits infested with Worms, &c. In consequence of the extreme drought of the 
summer, the autumnal fruits are found this season to be much infested with 
worms and maggots. This is peculiarly observable in pears. Under these cir- 
cumstances, we conceive it our duty to warn our readers, and particularly such 
as have young families, against the injurious effects likely to result from eating 
fruit in the state alluded to. It is necessary that every discoloration produced 
by the maggot be cut clean away, before the fruit is eaten ; as, unless this precau- 
tion be taken, the effects upon the intestines, particularly of children, are frequently 
most serious, and often fatal in their results. An eminent physician of this 
_ neighbourhood has stated his conviction, that a very few grains of the disccloured 
substance to be seen in a pear when worm-eaten, are sufficient to cause a disorder 
in the intestines of a most dangerous character. (Nottingham Herald.) 

Currants, raspberries, and gooseberries are this season found to be particularly 
injurious to those who indulge in them, whether eaten as a dessert, or used in pastry. 
The dry weather occasioned them to ferment on the bushes, instead of attaining 
a proper degree of ripeness, and many of the prevalent maladies, cholera morbus, 
diarrhoea, and other stomach complaints, are attributed to this cause. (Taunton 
Courier.) 

Mangold Wurzel. At the Doncaster Agricultural meeting, Lord Althorpe 
described an interesting experiment which he had made to ascertain the compara- 
tive merits of Swedish turnips and mangold wurzel, in the fattening of cattle ; the 
result of which went to prove the superiority of the latter. His lordship further 
observed, that during the present droughty season, when the turnips had been 
nearly burnt up or destroyed by the fly, mangold wurzel had flourished, and was 
an abundant crop. (Farmer’s Journal.) A correspondent (D. B.) informs us, 
that mangold wurzel may be used for feeding dogs, and that they are very fond 
of this root, while they will not eat the turnip, \ 

Moveable Trellis. — We have seen a very handsome model of a hot-house, con- 
taining atrellis of this description in the manufactory of Mr. Long, of Chelsea. 
The trellis may be raised or lowered at pleasure with the greatest ease by one 
person ; it may be constructed either of wood, or of wood and wire combined. 
Mr. Long has had great experience in hot-house building, and showed us a 
variety of plans and elevations of structures of this kind, some of them on a 
large scale and very ornamental, which he has erected in different parts of the 
kingdom. He is a remarkably correct and neat draughtsman, and being also a 
practical man, we think we are doing our readers a service by pointing him out to 
them. — (See his advertisement in page 473.) 

To scare Birds from: Cherries. Fasten the ends of long shreds of linen to the 
branches, and let them blow about. (Irish Farm. Journal, June 3.) 

New Trap for Sparrows. Few birds are more difficult to scare or destroy 
than the common sparrow. D. B., a correspondent, once saw a flight of these 
birds fluttering over a toad, and so completely absorbed were they by something 
about the animal, that they permitted his approach within three or four feet before 
they flew away. He conjectures that they may have been attracted by the eyes 
of the toad, which, it is well known, are remarkable for their brilliancy ; and he 
suggests the idea of employing toads as traps, which may attract birds, and allow 
them to be conveniently shot at; but before he indulges any farther in specula- 
tions of this sort, he wishes to know if any reader of the Gardener’s Magazine 
has observed any similar phenomenon. 

Horticultural Impostor. A man has gone about London, the two last autumns 
selling the roots of cenanthe crocata, for those of a newly imported species of 
dahlia. He found a number of purchasers. As the oenanthe is one of the most 
powerful of vegetable poisons, the substitution of its roots for those of the dahlia, 
which are edible, may possibly be attended with dangerous consequences. The 
following description of this plant is from Gray’s “ British Plants.” 


Notices. — Scotland. ASS 


C&nanthe crocata, yellow-water drop-wort, Hemlock drop-wort, dead tongue, 
&e. Pentan. dig. Lin. Umbelliferz, Juss. (Fig. 95.) 


Leaves bipinnate, (a); leaflets all wedge-shaped, many cut, nearly equal ; 
involucrum many leaved. Root tuberous, (4) tubers blunt, sessile, crowded ; 
stem upright, four feet high; leaves dark green, bald; umbels terminal, many 
rayed, hemispherical ; grows by water-sides ; perennial, flowering in July. 

A Gardener near Northampton, was lately convicted in 15/. penalty, and treble 
the value of the fruit, for stealing 23 bunches of grapes, the property of his 
master. It was not his first offence, as it appeared he had sent at different times 
packages by coach to a fruiterer in London. (Gloucester Journal, July 29.) 

We forbear giving the name of this unfortunate gardener, sincerely hoping 
that he will repent and amend. No man ever departs from the direct line of 
probity, who does not experience, sooner or later, the truth of the old maxim, 
“honesty, &c.”’ 


SCOTLAND. 


Caledonian Horticultural Society. The Second Report of the Garden Com- 
mittee of this Society has been printed. The following is an abstract : — 

A period of more than a year has elapsed since the Garden Committee, acting 
under the direction of the Council, made their first report. It was then stated, 
that the operations of levelling, forming, and inclosing the ground were in active 
progress ; and the Committee have now the satisfaction of reporting that they - 
have been nearly completed. The several portions of land allotted for the 
arboretum, the orchards, the culinarium or kitchen-garden, the flower-garden, 
the melon-ground, and other. smaller compartments, have, in different instances, 
been inclosed by raised belts of trees and shrubs, or by fences of holly or horn- 
beam, which, in a short time, will contribute greatly to the purposes both of 
shelter and beauty. On every side the ground is now shut in either by walls or 
paling: and, keeping in mind the experimental purposes of the institution, the 
chief wall on the north side has been built of different materials, and with different 
forms of coping, with the view of ascertaining which mode of construction may 
prove most advantageous for fruit-trees of various descriptions. Water of good 
quality has been obtained in great abundance from the Botanic Garden, and it is 
in contemplation to form the pond for aquatics, with its appropriate rock-work 
for alpine plants, as soon as the more urgent operations of planting are com- 
pleted. Since the former report, an excellent dwelling-house, in the cottage 
style, from designs furnished by Mr. Playfair, architect, has been built for the 
superintendant or head gardener ; and estimates have been required for erecting 
a small green-house and hot-house, for the reception of such exotic fruits and 
flowers as may be presented to the society. These glazed houses will be con- 


456 Notices. — Scotland. 


structed with the view of forming hereafter a suitable portion of the more ex- 
tended range described in the original plan. 

The Committee beg leave shortly to repeat, that the objects which will chiefly 
claim attention in the experimental garden, are the cnltivation of the different 
varieties of fruits and esculent vegetables, paying strict attention to the qualities 
and habits of each, and instituting comparative experiments on the modes of cul- 
ture to which they are usually subjected, so as to obtain a knowledge of the 
best varieties, and the most successful methods of culture. Specimens of the finer 
varieties of plants which adorn the shrubbery and flower-garden, will also be 
selected; and, im every department of horticulture, new plants, and new or 
improved varieties of those already known, will be sought for. . By means of 
an extensive correspondence with eminent horticulturists, both at home and 
abroad, it is hoped the Society will be able to collect, from different countries, 
many of their various products of vegetables, fruit-trees, shrubs, and ornamental 
plants. Of these they will endeavour to naturalize the finer and more useful 
kinds to our soil and climate; and they will communicate to the public, from 
time to time, the results of their experiments, soas to render their labours gener- 
_ ally useful. 

Cuttings, and, as often as possible, rooted plants of the various fruit-trees 
cultivated in the garden, will be freely distributed to shareholders and members, 
according to regulations hereafter to be made. Strawberry plants, and new or 
rare varieties of culinary vegetables, will in like manner be distributed. With 
the exception of two small portions, set apart for curious and select experiments, 
the whole garden will be open to the different classes of members and their 
friends, under regulations to be made by the council and garden committee. 

It will gratify the Society to learn, that not only have assistance and promise 
of support been received. from kindred establishments, and lovers of horticulture 
in these kingdoms, but that a correspendence has been opened, and assistance 
zealously profiered, by similar establishments in various quarters of the globe. 
With the national establishment, called the “ Jardin des Plantes,”’ at Paris, now 
under the direction of the celebrated Mr. Bosc, — with an horticultural society at 
New York, and with another similar establishment in New Holland, a corres- 
pondence has been already commenced; while many individuals, distinguished 
for their love of natural science in general, and of horticulture in particular, and 
who reside permanently in North and South America, and in our various colonies 
in the East and West Indies, have liberally offered to aid our enquiries, and 
assist our endeavours to procure such valuable and rare fruits and plants as their 
respective countries may produce; so that there is reason to hope the Society will 
obtain early intelligence of whatever discoveries, in relation to horticulture, are 
made in almost every part of the world. 

The Glasgow Horticultwral Society held their first competition for the season in 
June, when-prizes for the fruit and vegetables preserited were awarded. But few 
flowers were presented, having been too early in blow, owing to the uncommon 
warmth of the season. The show of cauliflowers greatly exceeded expectation ; 
some heads measuring thirty-two inches in circumference. Two very fine speci- 
mens of seedling geraniums were brought from Woodland’s garden, also a very 
large flower of the tulip-tree, (which seldom blossoms in this country,) brought 
from Scotston. (Glasgow Herald.) ‘ 

Dumfries and Galloway Horticultural Society. At the meeting, on the 18th of 
March, a variety of prizes were awarded for forced sea-kail. On the 16th of 
May thirteen prizes were awarded for flowers and culinary vegetables. On the” 
27th of May several prizes were awarded for tulips, anemonies, and potatoes. 
On the 27th of June, among the prizes were one for cauliflower, to Mr. William 
Chalmers, gardener at Casiledykes; the largest weighed three pounds and a half 
without the leaves, and measured twenty-four inches in circumference. A fine 
show of irises was presented on this occasion, and what deserves particular 
notice, an assortment of last year’s apples in excellent preservation. They had 
been kept in a cool room, rather damp, but to which air was admitted in moist 
weather. They were laid on wooden shelves, and frequently wiped with a cloth. 
The kinds were, the Ribstone and Fearn’s pippin, stoup leadington, fullwood 


- F 


Notices. — Ireland. 4.57 


rennet, strawberry, and Tom apple. There were also some specimens of the 
Tom apple (we hope we have not mistaken the name) which had been kept two 
years. On the Ist of July a number of ‘prizes were given for pinks, straw- 
berries, and melons ; and on the 5th of August for carnations, gooseberries, and 
cherries. (Com. by Mr. Grierson.) On this day was shown a beautiful speci- 
men of the Magnolia fuscata, a shrub indigenous in China, produced in the 
garden of Mr. Johnston of Carnsalloch. The leaves are similar to those of the 
bay tree, but the flower is rich beyond description. It is of light cream colour, 
with the soft appearance of velvet, and has a pleasant fragrance of lemon. This, 
perhaps, is a solitary instance of this shrub flowering in Scotland, and may be 
attributed to the extraordinary heat of the summer, aided by the attention of 
Mr. Porter, the gardener at Carnsalloch, who is, with great reason, proud of 
having been able to bring his foreign nursling to such perfection. (Dumfries 
Journ.) 

The Fourteenth Anniversary Meeting of the Dumfries and Galloway Horti- 
cultural Society was held in the Assembly Rooms in Dumfries, on the 31st of 
August. The Rev. J. Wightman, chaplain, presided. The office-bearers for 
the ensuing year were chosen, and the Treasurer, Mr. Primrose, produced a 
statement of his accounts, with a report, which proved highly Satisfactory to the 
meeting. ; 

It was proposed to publish the new Prize List about Christmas, and the mem- 
bers were requested to send in a list to the secretary of such articles as they would 
recommend for competition, between this and that time. 

The meeting recommended to the attention of the members, the Gardener’s 
Magazine, (conducted by Mr. Loudon, and published quarterly in London) as a 
work likely to be eminently useful both to the amateur and the practical gardener. 

The meeting regretted that the important object of the formation of an experi- 
mental garden has not been attended to, notwithstanding the recommendation of 
the general meetings for some years past, and several noblemen and gentlemen 
having already subscribed towards the expense of it, and others having signified 
their readiness to contribute to the undertaking, by subscribing for shares at the 
rate of 5/. each, as formerly proposed, on the principle of the Caledonian Garden, 
which is now in a very forward state. In order, therefore, to give full effect to 
this important object, the meeting appointed a special committee to make such 
arrangements, and adopt such measures, as to them may seem best calculated to 
promote the formation of the experimental garden. 

Thirty-three prizes were awarded for apples, pears, plums, peaches, nectarines, 
black grapes, green grapes, pine apples, melons, figs, salad, (?) cauliflower, 
green peas, carrots, Malta turnips, retarded gooseberries, dahlias, New Zealand 
spinage, and home-made wine. 

Two fine rose plants were produced by R. Ross, from seed which he had re- 
ceived from Teneriife and the Cape. iS 

After the meeting, the members and friends of the Society sat down to dinner 
in the Dumfries and Galloway Hotel. 

The dessert was most sumptuous; perhaps a finer variety of excellent fruit 
never graced a table in Scotland. The company enjoyed the pleasures of the 
evening to a late hour, and parted much delighted with the important object of 


the meeting. (Dumfries Jour. Sept. 5.) 
IRELAND. 


Horticultural Society of Ireland. On July, 31st, this Society held its show of fruit 
and flowers, atthe Rotunda, The stages erected in the centre of the great room were, 
we think, rather larger than usual ; but they were amply furnished, and in their ap- 
pearance combined richness of effect with neatness of arrangement. Although the 
show took place fourteen days earlier than the corresponding one of last year, yet, 
owing to the continued heat and drought of the season, the flowers exhibited for 
prizes were not as fresh-looking as on former occasions, and the small fruits were 
over ripe. The only fruits which had not attained their full ripeness were the green 
gage plums, from which, in consequence of that circumstance, the premium was 
withheld. The grapes were extremely fine —both those exhibited for weight and 


458 Notices. — Ireland. 


those for favour. Of the peaches there were a great variety, all very fine and 
ripe. Some of the nectarines and apricots were extremely large; of the latter 
there was only exhibited one kind, the Moorpark. The melons were very fine, 
and there was a great competition in them. Several pine apples were exhibited, 
all perfectly ripe, and generally large. ‘The judges, however, withheld the pre- 
miums, in consequence of the fruit not being cut. The carnations, pinks, and 
piccotees were of pre-eminent beauty, and the candidates for prizes in these flowers 
more numerous than, from the unfavourable season, we could have expected. 
Previous to other shows the skill of the florist has usually been directed to force 
into blow the flowers on which he rested his claims; but this time it appeared 
that his utmost exertions were requisite to retard their florescence, and that with 
all his care he was only able to exhibit a succession, instead of the primary 
blossoms. It is but a proper tribute to merit, to mention here that Mr. Pennick, 
gardener to Peter Latouche, Esq. of Bellvue, would have obtained a prize for 
carnations, but for having sent only four flowers, when the regulations of the 
Society required six. ( j 

Amongst the exotics and ornamental plants with which the stage was decorated, 
we observed the lily of the valley tree (Convallaria arborea?) and the Neriwm 
Oleander splendens, fine specimens of which were sent by Mr. Downes, gardener of 
Thomas Crosthwaite, Esq. of Dollymount. The Norfolk island pine, (Dombeya 
excelsa) and a great variety of egg plants and cockscombs, from Mr. Dunphy, gar- 
denex to Austin Cooper, Esq. of Abbeville, attracted much admiration. A Shaddock 
tree from Mr. Poole, gardener to W. Rutherford, Esq. was, to the generality of 
visitors, decidedly the most curious and interesting production displayed: it was 
loaded with fruit, many of which were more than twice the size of a full-grown 
orange’; so that the majority of spectators supposed that they were over-grown 
oranges. Mr, Lane, gardener to Mrs. Colville, Clontarf, brought a strong, 
healthy Zante currant vine (Vitis Ionica,) with several clusters of grapes nearly 
ripe, affording a marked and curious contrast to the large bunches of Syrian, 
Muscat, and Hamburgh grapes which lay on the stage beneath. The vine, to 
which we allude, is of that species which produces the Zante currants, used here 
for culinary purposes, and of which, we believe, the first plant grown in the 
empire was reared from seed by the late Sir Joseph Banks, who strongly recom- 
mended the planting of it against the walls of graperies, where he found it thrive 
uncommonly well. 

A letter was received, previous to the show, from Mr, —, gardener 
to the Earl of Gosford, accompanied by a flower of the Carolina kidney- 
bean tree (Glycine frutescens), the first which has been produced in Ireland, — 
The flower resembles much the laburnum, but is of a bright lilac colour. 

After the adjudications had been concluded the Society dined together. — 
(Irish Farm. Jour.) 

Introducing Trees and Shrubs. In a letter in the Irish Farmer’s Journal of 
June 17th, by G. W. Irvine, Esq. on the subject of hedge-row timber, it is stated 
that Mr. Mackay, Curator of the Trinity College Botanic Garden, has, within 
these twenty years, introduced more plants to Ireland than all the other proprie- 
tors and cultivators put together. He is stated to have recently introduced some 
American species of poplar which are expected to prove valuable acquisitions as 
timber trees, 

The Yucca gloriosa has flowered with uncommon vigour this season in Lady 
Ormonde’s conservatory at Castlecomer. The plant in question has been under 
the management of Mr. Reecks, her ladyship’s gardener, for the last fifteen 
years. It is now eighteen feet high; the stem fourteen inches in circumference, 
and the flower, consisting of some hundreds of large beautiful bell-shaped blos- 
soms, is nearly four feet in perpendicular height. It will probably continue in 
blossom.a fortnight. (Irish Farm. Jour.) 

The Inistioge Grape. Our readers will probably recollect a statement in all the 
newspapers last year, of the great success that attended the exertions of Mr. Pren- 
dergast, of Inistioge, in the county Kilkenny, in bringing a particular species of 
grape to the greatest perfection in the open air, without any artificial heat what- 
ever. We are now informed by a correspondent, that these same grape-vines have 


Florticultural Society and Garden. 459 


this year the bunches of grapes uncommonly fine and numerous. But what will 
appear to our readers the most surprising is, that Mr. P. has several plants of the 
same sort of grape, each produced from one single bud of the last year’s wood, 
and planted in the ground, in the open air, so late as the first week of June last. 
These plants have two fine bunches of grapes on each, and the bunches are only 
separated from the earth in which the plants are growing by a slate, to prevent the 
fruit being injured by toomuch moisture. One of these plants Mr. P. dug up, 
(the remainder are all growing in the open ground at Inistioge, ) carefully preserv- 
ing a ball or lump of earth about its roots, and placed it in a small flower pot, 
with its two fine bunches of grapes attached thereto. Persons that are curious 
enough, or who may doubt the practicability of such a thing, can be convinced of 
the fact by calling in at Mr. Castellio’s shop, near Reginald’s Tower, where will 
be seen the grape vine plant in question. ( Waterford Chronicle. ) 

Rosslare Embankment. This work has commenced with every prospect of suc- 
cess, and it is expected that by the Ist of August, two hundred acres of the richest 
ground in the kingdom will be added to the estate of James Boyd, Esq. who is 
giving daily employment to upwards of one hundred of the poorer class of his 
tenantry. We wish that other landlords, whose properties are similarly situated, 
would follow the spirited example of Major Boyd. (Weaxford Herald.) 


Art. II. Horticultural Society and Garden. 


Horticultural Society, 4th July. The following Matters were exhibited. — 
Flowers of eighteen varieties of Carnations and Piccotees, from Mr. William Hogg, 
of Paddington. A Providence Pine Apple, from a plant eighteen months old, 
from John Allnutt, Esq. F.H.S. Dried fruits of Dimocarpus Longan, and 
Litchi, from ‘Thomas Beale, Esq. of Macao, in China. 

Also from the Garden of the Society. — Plants in flower of Hoya Pottsii and 
Hoya trinervis, new species, imported from China by the Society. Flowers of 
Rosa multiflora, of Double Roses, of varieties of Centaurea cyanus, of various 
Russian Stocks, of varieties of Double Papaver Rhxas and Double Pinks. Five 
different varieties of Lettuces. Fruits of seventeen varieties of Strawberries, of 
five varieties of Raspberries, of five varieties of Currants of Holman’s Duke 
Cherries, of five kinds of Figs, of Queen and Green Antigua Pine Apples. 
Plants bearing ripe fruit in pots of the Kishmish Grape, and the Black Prince 
Grape. Flowers of Nerium O. splendens, from Mr. Matthew Ryall. 

July 18th. The following Silver Medals were presented. — To Captain Robert 
Welbank, for the original introduction of Glycine sinensis from China, the plant 
having proved hardy and being highly ornamental. To Captain Richard Rawes, 
for his continued and successful exertions in the introduction of new ornamental 
plants from China. 

The following Paper was read. — On acclimating plants at Biel in East Lo- 
thian. In a letter to the Secretary. By Mr. John Street, gardener to the Hon. 
Mrs. Hamilton Nesbitt. 

The following Matters were exhibited. — A variety of the fruit of the Egg plant 
in spirits, from Chili, from Alexander Caldcleugh, Esq. F.H.S. Dried fruit of 
the large oval Litchi, from China, from Captain Richard Rawes, F.H.S. 
Flowers of eighteen varieties of Carnations and Piccotees, from Mr. William 
Hogg, of Paddington. Miscellaneous Flowers from Robert Barclay, Esq. 
F.H.S. Fruit of the Flat Peach of China, from Roger Wilbraham, Esq. 
F.H.S. A collection of Gooseberries, from Mr. Matthew Stevens, of Hat- 
field, Middlesex. ? i 

Also from the Garden of the Society. — The following plants: Amaryllis 
Augusta, a hybrid, Amaryllis fulgida, Amaryllis Johnsoni, Amaryllis nova Sp. 
from St. Catherine’s, brought home by Mr. James M‘Rae ; and Alstromeria 
neva Sp. from Chili, also brought home by Mr. M‘Rae. Flowers of Quisqualis 
Indica, of Lonicera Japonica, of two varieties of French Marygolds, of several 


Vot. I. No. 4. II 


460 Horticulturai Society and Garden. 


double varieties of Papaver Rheas, of a new variety of Iberis umbellata, of 
Coreopsis tinctoria, and of thirty varieties of Piccotees. Fruits of White Figs, of 
fifty-six varieties of Gooseberries, of white Dutch Currants, of six varieties of 
Raspberries, of early Anne Peaches, of Green Antigua, Black Antigua, Blood 
Red, Queen and Trooper’s Helmet Pine Apples, the latter a new variety from 
St. Vincent’s. Fruit from plants in pots, of the Royal Muscadine and Verdelho 
Grapes. 

The following Articles were received in the interval since the last meeting on the 
4th of July. — A specimen of the Silver Rock Melon, from Mr. William Kerr. 
A specimen of the small striped Melon, called Cucumis Dudaim, from P. Ste- 
phenson, Esq. Fruit of the Xanthochymus pictorius, from Mrs. Beaumont, 
of Bretton Hall. 

Aug. 1st. The following Papers were read. — Notice of some fruits ripened in 
the garden of the Horticultural Society of London in the season of 1825. Re- 
port on new or remarkable Esculent Vegetables, which were cultivated in the gar- 
den of the Horticultural Society during the year terminating with the 31st of 
March, 1826. 

The following Matters were exhibited. — Fruit of Cedratier Poncire, from 
Richard Vachee, Esq. F.H.S. A branch in fruit of the Mespilus Japonica, or 
Loquat, in spirits, from Robert William St. John, Esq. F.H.S. at Malta. 
Cucumbers grown in a vinery, trained on wires, from Mr. Robert Blockley, gar- 
dener to Charles Mundy, Esq. at Burton, Loughborough. Fruit of the double 
flowering Plum, from Mr. William Wilkins, C.M.H.S. Moor Park Apricots, 
from Mr. John George Fuller, F.H.S. A Surinam Melon, and a brown Anti- 
gua Pine Apple, from Mr. John Haythorn. A Melon, from Richard Eaton, 
Esq. F.H.S. Black Hamburgh Grapes, and a Melon, from Mr. John Fisher, 
gardener to Edward Bouvrie, Esq. at Dclapre Abbey, Nottinghamshire. 

Also from the Garden of the Society. -— Plants of a new shrubby double Pink, 
from China; of Loasa volubilis, a new plant from Chili; and of Ixora rosea, from 
China. Flowers of Coreopsis tinctoria, of two varieties of Asclepias, of Lilium 
superbum, of double Indian Pink, of Lonicera Japonica, and of two varieties of 
French Marygolds. Six kinds of Gooseberries, fruits of Roman and Turkey 
Apricots, of Violet hative Nectarines, of Gurmuch Melon, of Royal Muscadine 
and Verdelho Grapes, of Trooper’s Helmet Pine Apple, (a new variety from 
aH Vana of the old Queen, Brown Sugar Loaf, and of Antigua Pine 

pples. 

Lhe following Articles were received in the interval since the last meeting on the 
18th July, 1826. — Flowers of a new and very beautiful Heath raised from seed, 
from Thomas Boultbee Parkyns, Esq. F.H.S. Tottenham Park Muscat Grapes, 
from Mr. Henry Burn, F.H.S. Two unusually large clusters of the Green 
Chisel Pear, from Mr. Benjamin Bennett. Fruit of a new seedling Peach, called 
the Wembley Peach, from John Edward Gray, Esq. F.H.S. 

A ug. 15th. The following Papers were read. — Facts and Remarks on a spe- 
cies of Potatoe, with tuberous roots, from Peru ; and yet different from the com- 
mon Solanum tuberosum. In a Letter to the Secretary. By Samuel L. Mitchell, 
Hisq. of New York. On the Propagation of the Zamia horrida. In a Letter 
to the Secretary. By Mr. Francis Faldermann, C.M.H.S. It is found that sec- 
tions of the crown of the root may be employed for the purpose of increasing 
this palm, and probably also most others of similar habits. On protecting the 
Biossoms of Fruit trees against open walls from Rain. In a Letter to the 
Secretary. By Mr. Charles Harrison, F.H.S. On the Application of To- 
baeco-water in the destruction of Insects. In a Letter to the Secretary. By 
Mr. Joseph Harrison. Notice respecting the Strawberries cultivated for the 
Market in Scotland. By Mr. James Smith, C.M.H.S. 

: The following Matters were exhibited.— A specimen of netting used at Ripley 
Castle for the protection of wall fruit, from Mr. John Legge, C.M.H.S., gar- 
dener to Sir William Amcotts Ingilby, Bart. F.H.S. Specimens of Carver’s 
Kidney Bean, from Mr. William Wilkins, C.M.H.S. A collection of double 
Dahlias, and five sorts of Grapes, from John Al!nutt, Esq. F.H.S. A collection 
of doubte Dahlias, from William Wells, Esq. F.H.S. Fruits of Brown Naples 


Linnean Society. 461 


or Italian Pigs, of early vineyard Peaches, and of Dutch Codlins, from Mr. 
George Wain, gardener to William Amory, Esq. Fruits of white Marseilles, 
Figs, of Grosse Mignonne Peaches, and of Moor Park Apricots, from Mr. Thomas 
Moffatt, C.M.H.S., gardener to the Viscount Sydney, F.H.S. Fruit of a white 
fleshed Melon, raised from Dutch seed, from Thomas Charles Higgins, Esq. 
F.H.S. Fruits of black Hamburgh Grapes, and an Enville Queen Pine Apple, 
from Mr. Charles Harrison, F.H.S., gardener to Lord Wharncliffe, F.H.S. 
Specimens of nine sorts of Grapes, from Charles Holford, Esq. F.H.S, 

Also from the Garden of the Society. — Plants of a new species cf Gloxinia, of 
Catasetum tridentatum, of Cymbidium xiphiifolium, and of a new species of 
Mimulus from Chili, brought home by Mr. James M‘Rae. Flowers of Coreopsis 
tinctoria, of Asclepias tuberosa, of varieties of China Asters, of varieties of single 
and double French Marygolds, and of thirty-seven sorts of double Dahlias. Fruits 
of white Ischia Figs, of red Magdalen Peaches, of a Daree Persian Melon; of 
Enville, Ripley, Queen, and Lemon Queen Pine Apples. 

The following Articles were received in the interval since the last meeting of the 
Society on the Ist of August. — Sixteen berries of the roaring Lion Gooseberry, all 
gathered from one branch. The aggregate weight of which was, one pound 
fifteen drachms, averaging nineteen pennyweights each berry, from Mr. John 
Fardow, of Woodstock. Specimens of a Bigarreau Cherry, differing from the 
common Bigarreau, from William Philip Honywood, Esq. M.P. F.H.S. A 
branch and fruit of the white Dutch Currant, the bunches and berries very large, 
from John Dawson Downes, Esq. F.H.S. A Hybrid Melon, raised between 
the Egyptian green fleshed and a red fleshed variety, from Captain Peter Rainier, 
R.N. F.H.S. A handsome red fleshed Melon, grown ona plant trained upon a 
rafter like a vine, specimens of an early perfumed Pear, specimens of the early 
Bergamotte Pear, and specimens of the Spring Grove Codlin, from Mr. John 
Haythorn, gardener to Lord Middleton, F.H.S. Specimens of a Plum, which 
is believed to be the Imperial Violet, from Mr. Whitley, of Fulham. A hand- 
some Fruit of the Otaheite Pine Apple, from Mr. William M‘Murtrie, C.M.H.S. 
gardener to the Viscount Anson, F.H.S. 4 

The plan of the Arboretum, promised in our last Number, want of room obliges 
us to defer. The garden has presented nothing of particular interest this summer, 
the blossoms on most of the fruit trees having been destroyed by the frosts of May, 
and the strawberries and gooseberries having suffered severely from the drought. 
The roses flowered freely ; the dahlias are now in bloom, and there will bea fine 
show ef chrysanthemums in the course of next month. 


Art. IV; Linnean Society. 


June 6. There was read a paper by the Secretary, J. E. Bicheno, Esq. on 
Methods and Systems of Natural History, wherein the author endeavoured tu 
shew the diiferent uses to which they should respectively be applied. The chief 
object of the artificial system, he insisted, was to analyse; that of the natural 
system to synthesise. The business of the one is to enable us to ascertain par- 
ticulars ; and of the other, to combine those particulars, so as to assist the mind 
to reason generally. Systematists in general, he contended, have confounded 
these two distinct objects, and have attempted to employ their natural system 
equally with a view to determine species as to combine them; while their chief 
object should have been to find resemblances and common characters. The staie 
of science seems to require that the work of combination should be more studied, 
and that, instead of breaking down the preductions of nature into the smallest 
particulars, we should act more philosophically if we endeavoured to discover the 
common characters of her groups and to unite species, and thus furnish the or- 
tinary reader with materials of knowledge, relieve his memory, and abridge his 
fbour. This seems to be the more necessary in the present day, when the num- 
ter of birds amounts to 5000, of insects to 100,000, and of flowering plants to 
50,000. (Taylor's Phil. Mag. July.) 

I1 2 


462 Covent Garden Market. 


To the young botanist Mr. Bicheno’s paper offers some valuable hints. Too 
much time may be spent in examining into nice and accidental distinctions between 
species and varieties, which, though useful to a certain extent, by exercising and 
quickening the faculties, (Gardener’s Magazine, 418.) might be more profitably 
employed in comparing the general appearance and examining the essential cha~ 
racter of the groups, or masses (See Lindley in Phil. Mag. July,) which compose 
the vegetable kingdom. For this purpose, such systems as we have recommended 
to be formed in every pleasure-ground ( E. of G. § 6126. and G. M.435.) would be 
of the greatest utility, and, by a few hours’ examination, give every description of 
observers a more complete and instructive idea of the whole vegetable world, than 
the study of merely such plants as came accidentally in the way, would do in a 
life-time. Mr. Bicheno’s excellent paper is no small addition to the arguments 
in favour both of studying natural systems in books, and planting them in gardens. 


— Cond. 


Cabbage ...... 
Cauliflower ... 
Brocoli.......- ; 


Pease 


ArT. V. Covent Garden Market. 


July 24. 
Ts. Od, to 2s. 6d. per dozen heads 
1s. Od. to 5s. Od. per dozen heads 
Os. 6d. to 4s. 6d. per bundle 


986082 cesG0e Secceceescoeroeseseneseotes 


Beans ......... Os. 8d. to 1s. 6d. per half sieve 


Kidney beans. 
New Potatoes 


Turnips ...... 
Carrots..... bats 
Radishes ...... 
Spinage .....0. 
Onions.......+- 
Asparagus ,... 
Lettuces (cos) 
Cucumbers ... 
Cucumbers 
for pickling ' 


Grapes .ewrseeee 


Peaches ....00¢ 


Cherries ......- 
Apples......... 
Pears ........0. 
Plumsieeeeeee 
Gooseberries 
Currants ...... 
Raspberries... 


Elderberries... 
Walnuts,green 
Filberts........ 


Mulberries ... 
Oranges ....... 
Lemons ....... 
Apricots ...... 
Melons ........ 
Pine Apples .. 


- Is. 6d. to 3s. 


25s. Od. «0000.5... per half sieve 


4 6s. to 15s. per cwt. about 2s. to 
7s. 6d. per imperial bushel 


2s. 6d. to 5s. Od. per doz. bunches 
5s. Od. to 15s.Od per doz. bunches 
ls. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per doz. hands 
Os. 6d. to 1s. 6d. per half sieve 

2s. Od. to 8s. Od. per doz. bunches 
ls. 6d. to 3s. Od. per bundle 

Is. Od. to 2s, Od. per score 

Is. Od. to 4s. Od. per dozen 


Is. to 2s. ver 100 


SOC 


2s. Od. to 6s. 
2s. 6d. to 5s. 
83s. Od. to 6s. 
Zs. Od. to 3s. 


Od. per dozen lbs. 
Od. per half sieve 
Od. per half sieve 
6d. per half sieve 
Od. per half sieve 
Is. 6d. to 4s Od. per half sieve 
Os. 9d. to 1s. Od. per pottle 


e000 0eee res --covcce 


3s. Od. to 6s. Od. per half sieve 


POLOOR ooo ese oee eo OeoeecC00E00 Feeee Ber tee 


Os. 6d. to 1s. Od. per pottle 
4s. Od. to 12s. Od. per 100 
3s. Od. to 10s. Od. per 100 
Is. Gd. to 3s. Od. per punnet 
4s. Od, to 5s. Od. per Ib. 

4s. Od. to 8s. Od. per Ib. 


© C08 eecvcre 


Aug. 21. 
Os. 9d. to 1s. 9d, 
1s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. 


eoe cost ecsescoesen 


2 00e00eee 222000000 


ere ceeeccvoesecese 


2s. Od.. 

5s.Od. to ZOs. 
Jost 2s. 6d. 

to 6s. &c. 
1s.9d. to 5s.0d. 
3s.0d, to 6s.0d. 
1s.Od. to 2s.0Od. 
2s.0d. to 6s.Od. 
Os.6d. to 1s5.0d. 
Os.4d. to 2s. Od. 

for pickling, 
; 6d. to Is. 


ls. to2s 6d. 
j per punnet. 
6s.O0d. to 12s. 
2s5.0d. to 4s.0d. 
2s.0d. to 4s.0d. 
1s.0d. to 2s.6d. 


1s.6d. to 3s.6d. 


eoscccccecec sen soe 


enccocen 


1s.9d. to 3s. 6d. 
5s. to 9s. per 
dozen Ibs. 
Os.6d. to 1s.0d. 
5s.0d. to 15s. 
5s.0d. to 18s. 
Os. 9d. to 1s.6d. 
2s.Od. to 3s. Od. 
5s.0d. to 6s.Qd. 


Sept. 4. 


ls.6d. ta 2s.3d. 
3s.6d. to 5s. 
per half sieve 
9s. Od. 
3s. Od. to 8s. 
Od. about Is. 
6d. to 4s. &e. 
1s.6d. to 4s.0d. 
9s. 6d. to 6s.0d. 
1s.Od. to 2s.0d. 
1s.Od. to 2s.0d. 
2s.0d. to 5s.Cd. 
Os.6d. to 1s.0d. 
Os. 4d. to 2s.0d. 
for pickling, 
} 4d. to 8d. 


4s. to 7s. per 
dozen lbs. 
1s.0d. to 2s.Od. 


ls. 6d. to 2s.6d. 
1s.6d. to 7s.0d. 
ls.Od. to 1s.6d. 
1s.Od. to 2s.3d. 
3s. Od. per 
bushelbasket 


5s.Od. to 9s.Od. 


Os. 6d. to 1s.0d. 
5s.0d. to 15s. 
5s.0d. to 18s. 
Os. 9d. to 1s.6d. 
9s.Od. to 3s.0d. 
3s.0d. to 6s. Od. 


Education of Gardeners. 463 


Art. VI. Education of Gardeners. 


Emigration. “ Sir, — After reading the Second Number of your Magazine, we 
were quite lifted up with the hopes of being put up to some easy method of obtain- 
ing a good education ; but we were as much disappointed when we saw your 
article on the education, or rather the emigration, of gardeners, 

“ In that article you recommend those gardeners who are too old or incapable 
of receiving much instruction, to emigrate to America, &c., and engage themselves 
as common country labourers of all work. It is not likely that an old man is 
capable of acting upon any part of your recommendation. What, then, is to be- 
come of him? Like Adam, he is to be turned out of the garden, and sent to the 
field ; but not for the same offence, certainly: the first was for eating of the fruit 
of the tree of knowledge, and the last was, because he could eat no more. 

** Your recommendation might apply very well to those who are disinclined to, 
or incapable of, much improvement; but even to them you ought to have pointed 
out the means of emigration, as change of profession would be of no use ina 
country where so many thousands are out of employment, and would emigrate if 
it were in their power. 

“* Next come your hints to young gardeners, where you recommend to them 
that they ‘have no pleasures,’ and ‘Jose no time,’ &c. “We know of no pleasures 
that they can part with; as all beyond what they take in the study of their busi- 
ness is out of their reach, and for an obvious reason—want of money. Itis avery 
good advice to give to any one, that they lose no time; and we are aware that 
nothing valuable can be obtained without perseverance : but we were very much 
disappointed in not seeing you follow up your promise, to shew us the best way 
to work out our education. “ A Mippie-acep GaRrpDENER.”” 


It is evident that our correspondent does not belong to the class who ought 
either to emigrate or change their profession. But as he writes no doubt in be-. 
half of our younger brethren, we thank him for his opinion, and shall fulfil our 
promise by degrees. In the mean time he will find some hints for the employ- 
ment of their winter evenings in our Encyclopedia (p. 1138, 2d ed.), and some 
books, worth purchasing for them, in our next Number.— Cond. 


Self-Education. ‘<1 perfectly agree with you on the importance of self-education 
of gardeners, and for your fatherly advice on this head accept my best thanks ; and 
I think every young gardener must hold himself indebted to you for it. I some- 
what differ with you in opinion respecting transformation and emigration of gar- 
deners; the first meets my fixed opinion, but the latter, I think, will not answer 
so well. I consider, that a man who has got a head fit to emigrate with, is fit to 
remain at home ; if he has nothing but hard labour to look forward to, he will be 
happier under it in his native land. I think it is necessary for an emigrant to 
have either a full head or a full purse. 

‘«< The observations on the self-education of gardeners require to be carried to 
a greater extent. In the first place, their wages will not afford them books, and, 
secondly, they are at a loss to know what books will come in cheapest and most 
instructive. As a remedy for the first, I have sometimes thought of gardeners 
forming clubs or societies for purchasing books ; and should feel very much grati- 
fied if some of your numerous correspondents would suggest a plan for it, as I 
think it would be very beneficial could it be accomplished. I beg the favour of 
some of your more learned correspondents, or yourself (as I think no one more 
able), to inform us what books a young gardener’s library ought to contain for 
his required education ; that is, such as come in for the least money, and contain 
the most information ; where they are to be got, and what their prices are. 

« Tam, Sir, yours, &c. 
“* SENsITIVA.” 


We have prepared such a list as our correspondent asks for, but find we have 
not room for itin this Number. In the mean time we invite our readers to assist 
us with some ideas on the subject. What book is to be got equivalent, in point of 
comprehensiveness, to Macgregor’s Mathematics, a school-book in general use in 
Edinburgh about twenty-five years ago, but now out of print ?— Cond. 


I1 3 


464: Answers to Queries. 


Art. VII.— Answers to Queries. 


Hybrid Currants. —“ Sir,—In reply to the query of ‘Runes,’ in the Second Num- 
ber of your excellent Magazine. viz. ‘ If any hybrids have been originated between 
the black and red currant ? &c.’ I beg leave to state for his information, that in the 
year 1822, I impregnated a blossom of a white currant, with the pollen of a black 
currant. The berry contained only one seed, which produced a healthy, vigorous 
tree; more like in its habit to a black currant than to a white one; but the leaves 
without the scent belonging to the black currant; and the blossoms in regular 
racemes, like the white currant. In 1825, this plant blossomed, but not one 
blossom set. I did not see it for two months after it was in blossom, and then 
the flower stalks were hanging upon it, but not the slightest vestige of a currant. 
This spring I was again absent at the time the plant was in flower, and did not 
see it for a month afterwards; there was still, at that time, a very fine crop of 
stalks, but not a currant to be found. If I am at home next spring, I will 
endeavour to ascertain what portion of the inflorescence is defective. 


“ London, Great Alie Street, No. 22, “ I am, Sir, &c. 
August 16, 1826.” “ Rozert LAcHLAN.” 


Black Insect which infests Cherry Trees. — ‘ Sir, observing in the last Number 
of your Magazine, the enquiry of your correspondent, W. B. B., if there is any 
remedy for the small black insect which infests his cherry trees, I beg leave to 
state the method which I have practised with success. In winter, or early in 
spring, after unnailing the trees, I wash the wall with a mixture of tobacco- 
water and soft soap, forcing it into the nail-holes with a syringe, or the garden 
engine, as I find the little enemy chooses those places for his winter quarters, 
as may be seen in a mild, dull morning in spring ; when great numbers of them 
are observed leaving their lurking-places, and strolling about in quest of the yet 

“unexpanded leaf. -I am careful, also, after the trees are pruned, to wash every 
part of the tree with the liquor; (owr peach, and nectarine, as well as our cherry 
trees, were very much infected: ) and never to use the old shreds. I never found 
the least appearance of them on trees thus used; although others, within a short 
distance of them on the same wall, were nearly destroyed. I ought to have 
observed, that the trees thus served, were, the preceding season, in a wretched 
state. Allow me, also, to state, that on trees much infected, there are always 
great numbers of the little winged insects known here by the name of lady-fly; 
but whether they are instrumental in producing them, or, like the ant, feed on 
their larvee, I have not yet been able to determine, 

<< New mode of grafting the Vine. — Before I conclude, allow me to state a 
method of grafting the vine, which, as far as I know, is not generally known. 
The stock and graft must be both shoots of the present year. I consider the best 

_ time to perform the operation, to be when the shoots have advanced about two or 
three feet. The stock is cut as for common whip-grafting, within a short distance 
of last year’s wood ; and the graft is prepared as for inarching, leaving about 
two inches at the lower end of it entire, to be placed in a bottle of water sus- 
pended from the trellis, They are then tied and clayed in the usual manner. 
Care must be taken to fill up the bottle every day. If the operation is performed 
judiciously, they will readily unite. I have also budded the vine in spring, with 
complete success. If you think the above, or any part of it, worthy your notice, 
you may make what use of it you think fit. I am, Sir, 
“ Your obedient humble servant, 
‘© Near Worcester, July 18.” COS pluses 


Orchideous Plants are removed with difficulty from their native localities to the 
garden, and when brought there, retained in a state of cultivation with greater 
difficulty than most others; but they are a most elegant and interesting order of 
plants, and great favourites with botanists: and we are sure our readers will join 
with us in thanking Mr. Stock for the valuable information which he has elicited 
by his query. We insert the letters in the order in which we received them. 


Answers to Queries. 465 


“Sir, the best mode of preserving the be? Orchis, (Ophrys apif ra), and the fly 
Orchis (O. muscifera), is as follows. They should be removed with a large 
quantity of mould attached to their roots, They delight in a dry situation. 1 
have had them flower freely in brick rubbish. All other sorts that I know of 
do best in a shady situation. ‘I am, Sir, &c. 


‘¢W. Hirsz, 
“ Cheshunt, Herts. July 24, 1826.” _ Gardener to Jos. Baruo, Esq.”’ 
‘¢ Sir, — In compliance with the request of your correspondent, Mr. 


Danret Srocx, respecting the bee Orchis, &c., in No III. p. 358, of your 
excellent Magazine, I send you the following account of the method of cul- 
tivating some of the orchideous plants, that I have tried with perfect success in 
the nursery of my employers, Messrs. C. and J. Young. In the month of 
April, I remove, with a moderate portion of earth, from their native habitation, the 
following interesting and peculiarly elegant species; —Orchis:pyramidalis ; Gymna- 
denia conopsea; Platanthera bifolia [Lindl. in Don. Cat. ed. 11.] (butterfly) ; 
Aceras anthropophora (green man); Herminium monorchis (musk); Ophrys 
muscifera (fly) ; O. apifera (bee); and Epipactis pallens. I plant them on a 
sloping bank, composed of turfy loam and chalk, in an eastern exposure. The 
plants thus treated, flower considerably stronger, and remain a longer time in 
bloom than those at Box Hill, from whence they were obtained in 1824. This 
season they are also ripening their seeds in abundance, and I expect to have the 
bank covered with seedling plants the ensuing spring. I have no doubt but the 
remaining species that are fond of a cretaceous soil, such as Orchis hircina ; 
O. Smithii, [Sweet in Obs. B. F. Gard. 163.] &c. ; would succeed equally well 
with similar treatment. The common species, O. latifolia, &c., including a per- 
fectly white variety of O. morio, excepting the green lines of the perianthium, 
and which may be named O. morio, var. alba, found in a meadow near Epsom, 
I remove as above, and I plant them in a mixture of turfy loam and peat, in a 
moist, shady situation ; the success attending them has been precisely the same as 
with the preceding. Having thus endeavoured to coincide with the wishes of 
£) DPW , your correspondent, and _ being 

WA, desirous of making a complete 

collection of indigenous orchidex, 
I should feel much obliged to 
him, or to any of your corre- 
spondents, who. could furnish me 
with the species not mentioned 
above as being in my cultivation. 
The following North American 
species I cultivate successfully on 
a bank of sandy loam and peat: 
Spiranthes cernua ; Calopogon pul- 
chellus ; Cypripedium spectabile ; 
Liparis liliifolia; Goodyera pubes- 
cens. Drawings of the two last, by 
Mr. J. Nairn, of this nursery, ac- 
; : company this. (Fig.96). (a) Goad- 
yera pubescens; (4) Liparis liliifolia.  “ I am, Sir, &c. 


“ Georcr Penny.” 
“ Epsom Nursery, August 29, 1826.” 


We have seen a number of drawings by Mr. Nairn, accurately and beautifully 
done, considering that he never had any instructions, and only occupies his 
leisure hours in this way. — Cond. 


«« Sir, — Reading your excellent Magazine early in July, I found (at page 
358), a query from Mr. D. Srock, relative to the culture of Orchises ; and I 
respectfully presume to offer you a short account of the treatment to which I 
have subjected the kinds mentioned by him, and most of the other British 
orchidez, with a very satisfactory result. Acting under the direction of my father, 


II 4 


466 Answers to Queries. 


I divested them of all their native soil, so that a momentary torpidity ensued ; 
and there was no opposite qualities of earth to absorb nor prevent the regular 
filter of water.” This was done when they were collected from the field, and in full 
bloom ; they were then potted, three to six bulbs in each pot; the pots used were 
from four to six inches in diameter, and well drained with fragments of lime- 
stone about two inches deep in each pot. The earth used was Maiden loam, of 
various qualities, avoiding those of the most arid and argillaceous quality. These 
soils were not compounded, but each was used separate, with a view to ascertain 
which kind suited them best. They were then plunged in coal ashes, about 
three feet to the north of a wall six feet high, where they remained until October 
or November, when they were plunged in saw-dust, in a cold frame, with the 
Cypripediums, and other choice herbaceous plants, taken from the classed ground. 
for winter protection. They were removed from the frame to the former north 
border situation on the appearance of the leaves and flower stems, early in May, 
where they flowered in succession, very strong; and some of the kinds by far 
exceeded those in their natural place of growth; particularly the Ophrys 
muscifera ; O. apifera; O. aranifera; which now (August), have fine healthy 
pericarps, with a full crop of seed in them. ‘The kinds I have domesticated 
with so much success, are — 


Of Lindley’s Eleventh Edition of Of Smith’s Compendium Flore 


Donn’s Catalogue. 


Orchis pyramidalis 
morio 
mascula 
latifolia 
—— maculata 
Gymnadenia viridis 
conopsea 
Platanthera bifolia 
Ophrys muscifera 

- apifera 
aranifera 
Spiranthes estivalis 
Listera ovata 
Epipactis latifolia 


Britannice. 


Orehis pyramidalis 
morio 
mascula 
latifolia 
maculata 
viridis 
conopsea 
bifolia 
Ophrys muscifera 
apifera 

- aranifera 
spiralis 
Listera ovata 
Epipactis latifolia. 


‘¢ The only perceptible difference in the plants was, that those in the strongest 
loam had better colours than those in the light loam. The success appears 
to arise from adopting partial shade, and avoiding the reflection from the soil 
of the cultivated flower border ; by which means we have grown and increased 
the Cypripediums with equal success. Four years ago, a weak root of C. spec- 
tabile, with only one crown bud, was put under the above kind of treatment, and 
this year it has thirteen stems, ten of which have bloomed. 

‘¢ Tam, Sir, &c. 
°¢ Welbeck Gardens, August 29, 1826.” «¢ J. Tuomrson, Jun.” 


Training standard Fruit Trees en quenouille. —‘* Siy: In the second number 
of your excellent Gardener’s Magazine, an allusion is made to a mode of pruning 
apple and pear trees by a method very little known, so as to diminish their size. 
It is termed ‘en quenouille.’ May I request you to give a more detailed 
account of the method in a future number, so as to enable any common gardener 
to put it in practice. Permit me to add, that you would be doing great service 
to the public, were you to give a few general and simple rules on pruning in 
general, as applicable to different sorts of fruit trees. It appears to me that this 
might easily and profitably be accomplished by classing the fruit trees, according 
to their mode and place of bearing their fruit. For example ; apples, pears, plums, 
cherries, bear nearly alike on natural spurs, the whole length of the branches; such 
branches, therefore, should not be shortened, (excepting to produce wood, &c.) 
On the contrary, peaches, nectarines, apricots, Morello cherries, &c. &c. bear on 
the last year’s wood, and such trees require shortening to produce young bearing 
wood, &c. I beg your consideration of this subject in your next number. 

“Tam, &c. G. P.” 


Answers to Queries. 467 


Trainmg en quenowille, or distaff fashion, is very little different from what 
among gardeners is called spurring in; that is, shortening all the side shoots of 
the main or leading shoot, so as their bases may form 97 
bearing spurs (fig. 98. ¢). Choose a tree that has a lead- i 
ing shoot in an upright direction ( fig.97.a) ; having plant- ee 
ed it, shorten the side shoot, leaving only two or three i } 6 
buds, and the leading shoot according to its strength (6), so i of 
that every bud may produce a shoot. \ a 

The first summer, if the plant is vigorous ( fig. 98. c), 
the leading shoot may he shortened (di, by which opera- i 
tion it will throw out shcots from the young wcod (¢). 

At the winter pruning, all the side shoots may be shortened to two or three 
buds, and the leading shoot to such a number as it is believed will push (f). 
This process is to be repeated every year, till the tree attains the height required, 


— 2 


98 


J). —< este SOO 
or that which is natural to it. In cutting in the side shoots, 
the spurs at the base aréevery year allowed to protrude a little 
farther, so that at twelve or fifteen years’ growth, the tree will 
present the appearance of a narrow cone or distaff. The use of 
shortening the leading stem, is to get it regularly clothed with 
spurs (g). 

With respect to instructions for pruning fruit trees in general, 
we hope some of our correspondents will enable us to fulfil the 
wishes of G. P. In the mean time, we would recommend to 
him Harrison’s Treatise on Fruit Trees, 1 vol. 8vo. — Cond. 


a 


Rosa Grevillii.— “ Goldworth Nurs-ry near Woking. — Dear Sir; You will 
no doubt recollect the shoot I showed you of my Greville rose, which grew 
eighteen feet in a few weeks. It is now in bloom, and is the most singular 
curiosity of all the rose tribe that has come under my observation ; it grows on 
an E. by N. aspect, on the gable end of my house, covering above 100 feet 
square, with more than a hundred trusses of bloom. Some cf them have more 
than fifty buds in a cluster, and the whole will average about thirty in a truss, so 
that the amount of flower buds is little if any short of 3000. But the most 
astonishing curiosity is the variety of colours produced on the buds at first opening. 
White, light blush, deeper blush, light red, darker red, scarlet, and purple — all 
on the same clusters. As my Greville rose is the only one I have seen in bloom, I 
should be glad to know through your valuable Gardener’s Magazine, whether the 
above are the characters of the rose generally, or whether mine is a singular or 
new variety. J am, Dear Sir, &c. 

“R. Donat.” 


A box of flowers sent us by Mr. Donald, were unquestionably those of the true R. 
multiflora var. Grevillii, which is easily known by the fringed edge of the leaf-staik, 
( fig. 99. a), while those of the common multiflora have much less fringe, and 


468 _ Answers to Queries. 


Y i \ 
Mis f 
Ui) Wes SAY ‘ : 
altogether smaller and less rugose leaves (6). The form of the blossom and clusters 
are pretty much alike in both sorts (c).— Cond. 


« Q. R.” is informed that we do not know that there is such a thing manu- 
factured as cast-iron sun-dials, though we think it very desirable that there should 
be, as few objects are better adapted for ornamenting small flower-gardens. 
Neither do we know that there are any cast-iron statues, though some of them 
would be equally valuable in garden scenery. The statue of Apollo, for instance, 
when contemplated, is calculated to elevate the feelings, and dignify and purify 
the mind of the beholder, while that of Venus softens and humanises, by its 
beauty and grace. . 

Malope trifida, Wild. Is the name of the plant, a specimen of which was sent by 
Julia. “It is a hardy annual belonging to Malvacez, a native of Barbary, where 
it grows in corn fields, and has much the same appearance there as the corn poppy 
has here, excepting that the colour of the former is rose or lake red, and that of 
the latter scarlet. We have seen beautiful specimens of it from the garden of 
Robert Barclay, Esq. F.H.S., of Bury Hill, Surrey; it promises to be one of 
our most splendid half hardy annuals. ; « G. D.” 


Cara of Brazil. —“ Sir: The Brazilian esculent root which G. S. enquires 
after, is, I presume, the cara of Rio de Janeiro, and is a variety of Dioscorea sativa, 
the skin of which is white, and tuber somewhat round, but irregular in form. It 
is certainly superior in flavour to the long-rooted varieties of yam, but is inferior 
to the potatoe in every respect but size, although it may be preferred by most 
persons to the potatoes generally grown for the Brazilian market, which -are 
watery and bad tasted; yet in some of the private gardens of the British mer- 
chants very good potatoes are cultivated. The name of ‘cara’ is frequently 
given to other esculent roots in that country ; the principal of which is Jatropha 
manihot, but the proper appellation appears to be ‘ Jpe,’ simply signifying in 
the aboriginal language ‘a root ;’ but even the name of ‘ Ipe,’ as it relates to 
J. manihot, is more properly applied to the innoxious variety of that species, and 
is known to the cultivators in being less livid in the colour of the leaves and 
stems; I never could learn whether this variety was permanent or casual; I 
think the latter, but do not assert it positively, as the fruits of all the enquiries 
which I made on the subject tended to a mysterious doubt, which can only be 
removed by a strict series of observations during culture. The mandioca is 
always cultivated by cuttings of nine or twelve inches in length, and the ‘ Ipe’ 
frequently appears in patches of the ficld, where the ‘feitor’ (steward or over- 
seer), or the slaves do not recollect planting cuttings of it. If not a permanent 


Queries and Suggestions. 469 


variety, does any peculiarity in the soil destroy or neutralize the noxious qualities of 
the plant? The ‘Ipe’ is eaten in a crude state with perfect safety ; when 
boiled, it eats something like yam ; I consider it also inferior to the potatoe, in 
every respect, excepting size. (I except it in its prepared state as cassada.) It is 
in general repute, especially among the pcorer classes ; in the city of S. Paulo, 
and other towns of that captaincy, it is carried about the streets ready boiled and 
hot, twice a-day. It may surprise G. S. to be thus told that two such distinct 
species as those, belonging to Dioscorea and Jatropha, sometimes pass under 

the same vernacular denominations, but it is true, and may arise from the casual 
introduction of the indigenous plant of one district to that of another, when a 
known vulgar name is frequently adapted to the new introduction. From the 
above observations, I trust you will (at least in this instance) rebut the charge 
of G. S. of collectors abroad, “not attending to the uses and app).cation of 
plants.” The uses of the plants, as far as known by observation or enquiry, is 
always marked on the lists of the collections, and are generally forwarded to the 
cultivators, who are the really guilty in swelling catalogues, and to whose remarks 
some botanical writers too readily give way, and adopt many hybrids, while they 
expel legitimate species, and cause a continual confusion among the nicer links 
in the grand chain of nature, which would otherwise, from modern research, 
become more complete every day —but generations must pass before the whole 
can, if ever, be elucidated. *¢ Yours, &c. &c. 

Gd fy 18}5° 


C saitidiie beeen hadiaaaeieiachaee 


Art. VIII. — Queries and Suggestions. 


‘¢ Sir,—If the three underwritten brief suggestions are worthy of your accept- 
ance, or if they wili be the means of inducing any person to effect something of 
the same kind, they are at your service. 

“¢ Tam, Sir, your constant reader, 
“« June, 1826.”” “« §. Fertron.” 


“1, Would it be desirable to have 4 Catalogue Raisonnée of Books on Horticul- 
ture, English and foreign? The first series of the English catalogue to be 
brought down to the demise of Henry VIII. ; the second to that of Charles II.; 
the third to that of George II; the fourth to that of George III. 

“ Nearly fifty yearsago I saw, in the libraries at Caen and Rouen, several Anglo- 
Norman MSS. on the cultivation of cider, and on general agriculture, and very 
possibly there may be some concerning horticulture. Many libraries on the 
Continent, no doubt, will throw light on this subject, particularly those of 
Ghent, Bruges, Brussels, and Holland. 

“2, A curious work might be formed by giving copies of some of those plates 
which adorn many old books which contain descriptions of some of our old English 
gardens, belonging to our ancient religious houses, or to the mansions of our old 
nobility and gentry. Some of these plates are by admirable (foreign) engravers, 
They might be classed under each county, and brought down to the demise of 
George IT. 

““ Ray dedicates his Flora to Lady Gerrard, of Gerrard’s Bromley, in Stafford- 
shire. Plot gives a plate of this mansion, and part of its garden. See also the 
garden in Vertue’s fine whole-length print of Sir P. Sydney. Perhaps there 
may be somewhere a plate of Sir W. Raleigh’s garden at Shirburne, in Dorset- 
shire. We have this account of his house: “ A most fyne house, beautified with 
orchardes, gardens, and groves’of such varietie and delyghte, that whether you 
consider the goodnesse of the soyle, the pleasauntnesse of the seate, and other 
delycacies belonging to it, it is unparalleled by any in these partes.” 

“‘ What information, on this head, might have been gleaned from the late Sir W. 
Temple, or from Kent, or from even him who has immortalized Kent, from 
Mr. Pope himself, whose chief delight was in his own garden, or from Mr. Evelyn, 


470 Queries and Suggestions. 


Mr. Gray, Mr. Mason, or from Mr. Bates, the celebrated and ancient horti- 
culturist of High Wickham, who died there some few years ago, at.the great 
age of eighty-nine ! } 6 

‘¢ This work might include many scattered and curious gleanings from our old 
gardens. I will mention only one: ‘“ Talking of hedges,” says Mr. Cobbett, 
in one of his Rural Rides, “‘ reminds me of having seen a box-hedge just as I 
came out of Petworth, more than twelve feet broad, ana about fifteen feet high. 
I dare say it is several centuries old. I think it is about forty yards long. It is 
a great curiosity.”” In some of the villages near Northampton, are some elder 
trees of singularly unusual size. About the year 1688, many gardens would 
then have furnished one with what is now suggested, if we may judge from what 
Worlidge then wrote: ‘“ Neither is there a noble or pleasant seat in England, 
but hath its gardens for pleasure and delight. So that we may, without vanity, 
conclude, that a garden of pleasant avenues, walks, fruits, flowers, grots, and 
other branches springing from it, well composed, is the only complete and per- 
manent inanimate object of delight the world affords.” i ; 

“3. A Biography of some early Horticulturalists would diffuse much curious 
matter.” 

We should be much gratified if Mr. Felton would supply some of the above 
interesting desiderata himself. Though we have not the advantage of his ac- 
quaintance, and do not know his address, we can infer from his communication 
that few are so capable of instructing and entertaining the curious korticulturist. 
A biography of Mr. Bates, or any anecdotes respecting him, wculd be very ac- 
ceptable.— Cond. 


Sweet Mace.—* Sir, I have inclosed 
a specimen of what is called ‘sweet ciig\aut 
mace,’ a herb very much used in this <2 @ugre/e 
part of Nottinghamshire; it appears to “Ose? 
me to be a species of achillea, perhaps 
the ageratum: J am induced to send 
it you because it appears to me tohave 
escaped your notice in the Encyclo- 
pedia of Gardening, and I do not 
find it noticed by its English name 
either in ‘ Domestic Cookery,’ or the 
* Cook’s Oracle.’ 
“ Tam, &c. 
« <¢ 'T. C. Hupprestons.”’ 
<¢ Newark, dug. 2. 1826.” 


The specimen sent was the achillea t 2 TT Ay RS oN 
serrata (Eng. Bot. 2531.) (fig. 100. a.); achillea ageratum (6) has smaller and 
more finely cut leaves, and the flowers are of a deep yellow. (I. D.C.S.) 


Insects on Wall-fruit Trees. © Suburbs of York, July 20. 1826.—Dear Sir: It 
appears to me from the inquiries which I have lately made, that an effectual 
method to destroy insects on wall-fruit trees is very little, if at all, known to the 
gardeners employed in this part of the country ; and if you will be so obliging 
as to insert in your next ‘ Gardener’s Magazine’’ the most practical and efficacious 
remedy for attaining this object, you will confer a favour, not only on myself, but 
on several individuals in this neighbourhood. 

“‘ About fourteen years ago a nectarine tree was planted against a brick wall in 
a south aspect; it is now from twenty-five to thirty feet high, and has been regu- 
larly pruned. In consequence of its having invariably been attacked every spring 
soon after the buds burst out into leaf, with thousands of green flies, which 
generally make their appearance on the commencement of northerly or easterly 
winds, the tree has never had a ripe crop of fruit upon it since planted. These 
insects continue upon the leaves and shoots until the former turn yellow, shrivel 
up, and drop off, soon after which, the young fruit, of which there has almost 
every year been plenty, likewise drop off. About Midsummer, on the rising of 


Queries and Suggestions. 47H 


the second sap, the leaves again shoot forth, which gratifies the eye, but adieu to 

the fruit. Several remedies have been tried, but none have hitherto had the 

desired effect. In this extremity, therefore, I have taken the liberty to make 

the above request, and shall be happy if you will take the trouble to enlighten, 
‘* Dear Sir, your most obedient Servant, 

6 Tenoramus.”” 


Lime-water, or water alone, thrown on the trees night and morning by Read’s 
syringe, or the garden-engine, will effectually subdue the insects in question, 
and most others, The operation should be begun on their first appearance, 
continued till they disappear, and resumed on their re-appearance. Tobacco- 
water will effect the same object with less labour, but at considerably greater 
expence of material. The gardener who can command lime-water and tobacco- 
water, may destroy every insect and reptile, from the aphis to worms, snails, and 
frogs.—Cond. 


Peaches and Nectarines on the same Tree. Mr. Richard Willis, gardener to 
John Harris, Esq., at Radford, Devonshire, has sent us two peaches and a 
nectarine, respecting which he says: “I now send you two peaches and one 
nectarine, which were grown on one branch, ten inches from each other. The 
tree was a maiden plant, and said to be the Chancellor peach, when I planted it 
in 1815. It has been ever since solely pruned and trained by me. In 1824 
there was a fine crop of peaches on this tree ; and as I was thinning the fruit in 
the usual way, I discovered one branch with twelve nectarines on it, which I was 
much surprised to see, knowing as I did that I had no man on the ground that 
could insert a bud. In 1825 there were twenty-six nectarines on the same 
branch. I gathered five out of six of them that were left to ripen, and they were 
as large as the peaches. ‘This season there were thirty-six nectarines on the same 
branch; I left four or five of them, with eighteen peaches, all on the same 
branch. This tree is planted against a wall, having a south aspect: it spreads 
seventeen or eighteen feet, and is about twelve feet high. The number of fruit on 
this tree left to ripen this year is upwards of two hundred, and they are very fine. 
The plant, as I have said, came to me by the name of the Chancellor peach. I 
do not believe it to be that sort. If any of your readers can say what is the 
cause of this tree producing two sorts of fruit, I shall feel much obliged by the 
information. “ Tam, Sir, &c. 

“ Radford, Sept. 4. 1326.” “ Ricuarp WILLIs.”” 


The peaches were large, handsome, and high coloured; the nectarine was 
smaller, and as dark as the Elruge: both peaches and also the nectarine are 
cling-stones, and high flavoured. One of the peaches is almost as smooth on 
one side as the nectarine. We have suggested to Mr. Willis to insert some buds 
from this branch in any other peach-tree, or in a plum-tree, and observe whether the 
progeny sport as much as the parent. — Cond. 


Description of an unknown Plum.—“Age fifty-four years, in health, good bearer, 
on strong soil, against an east brick wall; ripensin August, annual shoots small, 
leaves not larger than the sloe; fruit and stalk in shape and size like a green 
gage. After the fruit has stoned, it passes from green to orange colour, thence 
into orange and purple streaked. It ultimately matures into the deep colour of 
the Fotheringham. Superior to the Orleans, inferior in dessert to the Perdrigon. 
Flesh leaves the stone. Excellent for sweetmeats, though inferior to the Sherborn 
plum, and less acid when preserved. Cuttings shall be sent to you, if you deem 
the fruit worth cultivating. Its name is not known, nor can I find any descrip- 
tion of it in the various fruit-catalogues, old or new. « W.R. G.” 

““ West Riding, Yorkshire.” 

We shall be happy to receive cuttings of the plum described, which we shall 
graft and distribute. The other excellent communications of W. R. G. shall 
appear in due course. — Cond. 


Alpine Strawberry and Red. Spider.—‘‘ Permit me to call your attention, and, 
through your publication, that of gardeners generally, to the improvement of the 


472 Obituary. 


alpine strawberry. It is probable that its flavour would be increased in propor- 
tion to its size, and yet retain its fruitfulness. If it could acquire the size and 
flavour of the old Caroline (the Pine), it would then be, of all acquisitions, the 
very greatest that our gardens could receive. Nor do I despair of reaching this. 
Only consider what has been done with the gooseberry. — What is the most 
efficacious mode of destroying the red spider ? Os Jats fsb 

* July 17. 1826.” 

Buda Kale.—R. L. would be obliged if any gentleman would have the kind- 
ness to state, for the information of R. L. and several of his friends, readers of 
the Gardener’s Magazine, what is the best method of blanching the buda kale: 
R. L. having tried many methods, but in every case by the time the kale was 
blanched it was rotten. 


Merveille de la Nature Pear. — A valued correspondent (B. W.) would be 
much obliged to any reader of the Gardener’s Magazine, who could inform him 
where he could get a cutting or plant of this pear. — July 20. 


Plants in Pots and in Town Gardens, §c.—‘ Sir,— Permit one, who has no title 
to enter on a correspondence with the Gardener’s Magazine, beyond what the plea- 
sure its perusal affords him may give, to beg the favour of information on the fol- 
lowing points : 

«First, Some very full and very simple directions for the use of those lovers of 
plants in pots who may not have the advantage of a greenhouse. 

“© Secondly, A list of such trees, shrubs, and flowers, as are most fitted for a 
London garden, and least affected by its blacks. 

“‘ Thirdly, Some hints and suggestions on preventing the ravages of the com- 
mon green caterpillar in mignionette. 

«: And, lastly, Instructions to all unacquainted with practical botany and gar- 
dening, how to cut flowers, &c. ; much mischief being frequently done by their 
being improperly gathered. «IT am, Sir, your well-wisher, 

“ September 8.” « R. A. M.” 


Till some correspondent replies to R. A. M. he may look into Le Jardinier des 
Fenétres, des Appartemens, et des petits Jardins. Paris, Audot, 18mo. 1823.— 
Cond. 


Art. IX. Obituary. 


Diep at Middleton, near Arbroath, on Monday, the 3d of July, Walter Gandy, 
gardener to Gardin, Esq., at the advanced age of 97. He has served in the 
same family for the last 70 years, 20 of which he has been unable to work, except 
for his own amusement; notwithstanding wich, his hospitable master allowed 
him the same wages, with a house, cow. meal, and every other perquisite that he 
enjoyed when in active employment. —Dundee Advertiser. 


Correction. 


For agronomical, _In page 235, read agricultural ; and for agronome and agro- 
nomes, which occur in two or three places in this volume, read farmer and far- 
mers. We wish to banish the word bailiff from the language of agriculture, and 
first thought of Substituting the French appellation agronome ; but, upon second 
thoughts, we think the word farmer will do better. A gentleman’s farmer may 
always be distinguished from a rent-paying or commercial farmer, as a gentle- 
man’s gardener is distinguished from a commercial gardener. ; 


473 


PART IV. 


ADVERTISEMENTS CONNECTED WITH GARDENING AND 


RURAL 


AFFAIRS. 


AS GARDENER, or GAR- 

DENER and BAILIFF, or KEEPER, 
a Situation is wanted for a married Man, Forty 
Years of Age, without Incumbrance. He has 
a general knowledge of his business in the above 
branches, having filled them all, and can be 
well recommended. Letters, post paid, addressed 
to G. S. T. at C. and J. Young’s Nursery, 
Epsom, Surrey, will meet immediate attention. 


To the Nobility, Gentry, Vine-Cultivators, 


and others. 
A MOST IMPORTANT and 
VALUABLE IMPROVEMENT in the 
CULTURE of the GRAPE VINE, and for 
advancing the Fruit to the highest state of 
perfection. 


The Inventor, Joun Lone, Hothouse Builder, 
&c. Beaufort Place, Chelsea at the foot of Bat- 
tersea Bridge), begs most respectfully to invite 
the Nobility, Gentry, and Horticulturists gene- 
rally, to an inspection of his newly-invented 
moveable Wire-trellis Frames, by means of 
which the Vines are lowered from the glass 
roof, and raised at pleasure to any angle with 
the greatest facility, without the slightest injury 
to the plants, thereby effectually securing them 
from injury from the extremes.of cold and heat, 
ensuring a plentiful crop of well-matured grapes, 
and causing a considerable saving in fuel at a 
comparatively trifling expence. 

J. L. can with the greatest confidence recom- 
mend the adoption of the above invention, and 
ensure its success in all cases ; its utility for all 
the purposes for which it was designed having 
been most fully exemplified, as, from the highly 
respectable references he is enabled to give, can 
be amply proved. 

Manufactured and erected by the Inventor in 
any part of the United Kingdom, on theshortest 

otice. 


PINCE’S GOLDEN NECTARINE. 
LUCOMBE, PINCE, & Co. beg 


leave to call the attention of the Public to a 
new kind of NECTARINE, raised by them, 
which they have named as above; it is a most 
beautiful and highly desirable Fruit, of a large 
size, with a rich and very peculiar flavour. Its 
appearance marks it out most decidedly as a 
Fruit very distinct from any other hitherto pro- 
duced. 

Trees may be had on application to Messrs. 
LucomsBe, Pince, & Co. Nurserymen, Exeter, 
at 10s. 6d. each. 

Nursery, Exeter, Sept. 10. 1826. 


SOUTH AFRICAN BOTANY, &c. 
J AMES BOWIE begs leave to 


inform the Botanical Public,,that he will 
be ready to receive and execute orders for Seeds, 
Bulbs, Plants, and dried specimens (natives of 
S. Africa), at the Cape of Good Hope, in the 
course of a few months from this date, and as- 
sures those Persons who may favour him with 
their Orders, that he will attend thereto with 
the utmost care and diligence. 

J. B. not having appointed any Agent in Eu- 
rope for the disposal of his future Collections, 
informs those Persons who may wish to favour 
him with their commands, and who have no 
correspondents at the Cape, that Orders trans- 
mitted through the means of Visitors zn transitu, 
or the Captains of the regular Cape traders, will 
be punctually attended to; and the seeds, bulbs, 
and plants, packed agreeably to their several 
natures, will be forwarded in the proper seasons 
only, and, when requisite, written instructions 
will be given for the safer conveyance of the 
specimens in question. Having been pretty 
successful hitherto in the transmission of seeds 
from the southern hemisphere, he sees no plau- 
sible objections to seeds being still allowed to 
cross the equator, with every hope of ultimate 
success, and especially those of some fine species 
which have hitherto failed in consequence of 
the extinction or weakening of the vegetative 
powers in seeds. With such, a course of experi- 
ments, founded on practical observations, will 
be made; and, should they prove successful, 
they will hereafter be made public. ‘ 

Many Vessels from the East Indies, China, 
&c. touch at the Cape of Good Hope on their 
return to Europe, having plants on board, which 
are too frequently in a very precarious condition. 
The Advertiser, while in the neighbourhood of 
Cape Town, and when requested, will examine 
the state of such growing plants, and freely sug- 
gest such farther methods as may be conducive 
to the future preservation of them, free of all 
expence to the applicants; and in so doing, he 
hopes to be the means of preserving many valu- 
able plants for their owners, whose laudable 
exertions and heavy expences too often end in 

isappointment. 

Sen tueaer in the various branches of Natural 
History will find this a favourable opportunity 
of increasing their Collections, and perhaps of 
adding new and interesting- specimens to their 
Cabinets, as the Advertiser has already paid 
some attention to this circle of the Sciences, and 
is equally anxious to increase his knowledge ; 
and this he will be enabled to do, being entirely 
freed from the restrictions under which he 
laboured while in His Majesty’s service. In 
addition to any specimens he may furnish, he 
will be ever ready to forward any true informa- 
tion which may pass under his notice, of the 
uses, habits, and economy of both the animal 
and vegetable kingdoms, 

Kew, August 1826. 


474: 


Just Published, Price 1s. 6d., with a descriptive 


Plate, 
APRACTICAL ESSAY onthe 


CULTURE OF THE VINE, and a 


TREATISE ON THE MELON, by an Expe- | 


rienced Gardener, and Member of the Horti- 
cultural Society, held at Baldock, in the County 
of Hertford. 

Royston: Printed, published and sold by J. 
Warren; sold also by Messrs. LONGMAN AND 
Co., Paternoster Row, London, and all other 
Booksellers. 


In 2 volumes royal 8vo., with 172 coloured 
plates. Price 5/. 5s. in boards. 


ENDROLOGIA BRITAN- 


NICA; or Trees and Shrubs that will live 


in the open air of Britain throughout the Year. | 
A Work useful to Proprietors and Possessors of 1, 


Estates, in selecting subjects for planting Woods, 

Parks, and Shrubberies ; and also to all Persons 

who cultivate Trees and Shrubs. By P. W. 

Watson, F. L.S., &c. 

London, published by JoHN and ARTHUR ARCH, 
Cornhill. 


BOOKS on FIELD SPORTS, NATURAL 
HISIORY, &c. published by J. Harpine, 
No. 32, St. James’s Street. 


SIR JOHN SEBRIGHT'S 


OBSERVATIONS upon HAWKING, 
and the Mode of BREAKING and MANAG. 
ING the several Kinds of HAWKS used in 
FALCONRY. — Comprising Details on Par- 


tridge, Magpie, Rook and Heron Hawking; | 


History and particular Management of the Fal- 
con, Goshawk, Passage Hawk, Sparrow Hawk, 
Icelander, Gerfalcon, &c. &c., with a Description 
of the various Implements and Practices used 
in reclaiming and breaking them. 8vo. 5s. 

2. SIR JOHN SEBRIGHT’S TREATISE 
on BREEDING, or the Art of improving the 
Breeds of Domestic Animals. 8vo. 2s. 6d. 


3. An ESSAY on BREAKING DOGS for 
SPORTING, by Wm. Fioyp, Gamekeeper to 
Sir J. Sebright. 8vo, Qs. Gd. 


4. The GAME BOOK and SPORTSMAN’S 
CHRONICLE; by means of which an accu- 
rate account may be kept of the various kinds 
of Game, when, where, and by whom killed, 
how disposed of in presents or otherwise by the 
Gamekeeper, and various other particulars. 
Forming an agreeable Companion to the Lover 
of Field Sports, and enabling him to preserve a 
Journal of Sporting Occurrences from year to 
year. Price 7s. ina small size, fitted for the 
Game Bag, or larger ; andin various bindings, 
suited to the Shooting Box or Chateau, Price 
10s. Gd., 21s., 50s. and upwards, 

5. The FISHING BOOK, or ANGLER’S 


COMPANION, upon the same plan. Price 7s. 
and 10s. 6d. 


Books on Gardening and Rural Affairs. 


i In royal 4to. Price 7s. 


ROBINSON'S ORNAMENT- 


| AL VILLAS, No. 1X., containing a De- 
sign in the Style of Building of the Period of 
Henry VII. 

The prior Numbers consist of Designs in the 
Grecian, Italian, Swiss, Palladian, Norman, 
and Old English Styles. 

London: Printed for James CARPENTER and 
Sons, Old Bond Street. — Of whom may be had, 
by the same Author, in 4to,, Price 32. 3s., a Se- 
cond Edition of 

RURAL ARCHITECTURE; or, a Series 
| of Designs for Ornamental Cottages, Lodges, 
| Dairies, &c. &c. 


| BOOKS on NATURAL HISTORY, BOTA- 
| NY, &c., sold by J. Harpine, No. 32, St. 
James’s Street. 


CURIOUS COLLECTION 


of ORIGINAL DRAWINGS and 

SKETCHES, comprising about a Thousand 

subjects of Natural History, with Descriptions, 
| divided into Classes: Mammalia; Pisces; 

Vermes ; Lepidoptera, &c. 5 vols. 4to. 407. 
| 2 SINCLAIR’S HORTUS GRAMINEUS: 

WOBURNIENSIS: an Account of Experi- 
. ments on the Grasses made at Woburn, by or- 

der of the Duke of Bedford: the Original Edi- 
‘tion, illustrated by Dried Speciraens of the 
| Grasses, Seeds, &c. &c., a very fine copy. 207. 

' 3,SWAIN’S GRAMINA PASCUA: a Trea- 

tise on Pasture Grasses, with Specimens of the 
' Grasses, and Descriptive Account. Folio. 32. 3s. 
| 4, SALISBURY’S HORTUS SICCUS of the 
| BRITISH GRASSES, systematically arranged, 
' with One Hundred dried Specimens of Grasses. 
Folio. 32. 3s. 

5. KNAPP’S GRAMINA BRITANNICA; 

or Representations of British Grasses, with 
| Remarks; with One Hundred and Nineteen . 
| coloured Plates. 4to, 82, 8s. 6d. 
%*x* At HARDING'S may be seen a great va- 
| riety of Books on AGRIcULTURE, Botany, GaR- 
DENING, and the relative subjects, many of them 
scarce and curious ; and of part of the Collec- 
tion a Catalogue may be had, price 1s. 


This day is published, in one vol. 8vo. with 60 
coloured Plates, price 27. 12s. 6d. - 

FLORA CONSPICUA ; a Se- 

lection of the most Ornamental Flowering, 
Hardy, Exotic, and Indigenous Trees, Shrubs, 
and Herbaceous Plants, for embellishing Flower 
Gardens and Pleasure Grounds. The Generic 
and Specific Names, the Classes and Orders, and 
distinguished Characters, in strict agreement 
with Linnzus 3; the Remarks as to cultivation, 
treatment, and propagation; the particular 
earth for each plant, its height of growth, month 
of flowering, and native country. By Richard 
Morris, F.L.S. &c., Author of Essays on Land- 
scape Gardening, &c. 


Published by Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, 
and Green. 


INDEX. 


INDEX. 


A. C. query of, 359; answer, 378. | 
A Constant Reader, on diseased elm trees, 378. | 
query of, 96 ; answer, 229. 
A Friend to Discussion, 393. 
Facts, remarks by, 391. 
A. S., query respecting gold & silver fish, 229. 
A Subscriber, query of, and answer, 229. 
A Young Gardener, query of, and answer, 229. 
Acclimating plants, remarks on, 214. 
Acorn, used to fatten’ sheep in Germany, 200. 
African sheep in the United States, 86. 
Agave Americana, uses of in Mexico, 206. 
Agricultural and Botan. Soc. of Ghent, 201. 
Company of Australasia, 86. 
establishment in France, 445. 
implements (advertised), 230. 
schools of Switzerland, 82. 
Society of Calcutta, 207. 
Moscow, 443. 
Stockholm, 83. 
: Wurtemburg, 441. 
Agriculture connected with garden culture, 7. 
in the neighbourhood of Warsaw, 4. 
of the State of New York, me- 
moirs of, remarks on, 443. 
of the island of Corsica, 79. 
Allen, Mr. T., F.H.S., on cucumbers, 416. 
Amager, an island of gardens near Copen- 
hagen, 272 
Amaryllis, on a hybrid produced between A. 
vittata and A. regina vittata, by J. R. 
Gowen, Esq. F.H.S. 70. 
Amateur, on the Granadilla, 15. 
> query of, 229 ; answer, 356. 
American aloe in flower at Chiswick, 89. 
fine specimen of, at Kitley, 335. 
blight, (Aphis lanigera,) some ac- 
count of an attempt toarrest the ravages of, 
on fruit trees, by I. C. Huddlestone, Esq. 
F.H.LS., 388. 
American botanic gardens, 52. 
botanists, 53. 
cranberry and oak leaves, in Ger- 


many, 80. 
Anderson, Mr. John, F.H.S., gardener to the 
Earl of Essex, celery grown in trenches by 


him, 170; recipe for tomata sauce, 353. 

Anderson, Mr. William, F.L.S. H.S., curator 
of the botanic garden, Chelsea, on packing 
and’ preserving seeds, 210; remarks, in- 

, vluding the results of some experiments on 
budding the peach, &c. on almond stocks, 384. 

Angler's book (advertised), 233. 

Annales Agricoles de Roville, par Mathieu 
de Dombasle, account of, 196. 

Annfield, the villa of Dr. Percival, 261. 

Anona squamosa, ripened by Har] Powis, 73. 

Ants, how destroyed in France, 80 

Aphis lanigera, or American blight, an attempt 
to arrest the ravages of, on fruit trees, by T. 
C. Huddlestone, Esq. F.H.S., 388. 

Apple, Bere court-pippin, 73. 

4 Calville rouge de Micoud, 429. 

Claygate pearmain, 73. 

Cray pippin, 76. 

Jubilee pippin, 72. 


Esopus Spitzenberg, 73. 
stony royd pippin, 73. 
mammoth, 351. 
Pomme de deux ans, 94. 
golden knob, old maid, or old lady, 269. 
Apples, how marked with the impression of a 
leaf in Persia, 332. ; 
how to retain good varieties of in the 
country, 223. 
on a mode of keeping through the 
winter, by Mr. Robert Donald, 268. 


Vor. I. No. 4. 


Apples, remarkable variety at St. Valery in 
Normandy, some account of, 1J8. 

Arachis hypogea, on itsculture, by Mr. John 
Newman, 66. 

Archibald, Mr. J.. C.M.H.S. On Dalhousie 
castle and gardens, and the botany of the 
neighbourhood, 251. 

Architectural improvement, 353. 

Architecture, half a dozen hints on (aducer- 
tised), 97. 361. 

Arniston, botany of, 256. 

Arracacha, description and account of, 332. 

Asparagus, on the cultivation of, during the 
winter, by Mr. P. Lindegaard, C.M.H.S. 173. 

Astragalus Boeticus-as a substitute for coftee, 
82; remarks on, 440. 

Atkinson’s agriculture of New South Wales, 
remarks on, 432. 

Atkinson, W., Esq. F.H.S., his directions for 
the management of hot-house fire-places, &c. 
167 ;-his Grove End scarlet strawberry, 72. 

Atti del Real Instituto d’Incorragiamento, &c., 
account.of, 196. 

Aubergine, the brinjall, a variety of the egg- 
plant, Solanum melongena, 307. 

Australian Agricultural Company, 86. 

Averruncator, echénillier, Fr., its use in the 
Netherlands, 325. 

Baical lake, great botanical interest of, 52. 

Bailey, Mr. W., F.H/S. civil engineer, Lon- 
don, Traité de ?Emploi de la Vapeur pour 
les Serres Chaudes, &c. account of, 197. 

Bailly, M. C., abridgment of his pamphlet on 
raising fruit trees, 80. 

Baines, E. M., Esq. on an anomalous appear- 
ance in Lilium, 273. 

Balfour, Mr. W., on reverse grafting, 71, 274. 

Banks, Sir Joseph, P.R.S. &c. &c., 53, 54. 

Banyan tree, on the treatment of, by Captain 
Peter Rainier, F.H.S., 67. 

Barnet, Mr. James, his description of the diffe- 
rent varieties of strawberries cultivated in 
the garden of the Horticultural Society of 
London, 420. * 

Bates, Mr. William, a remarkably large goose- 
berry plant growing in his garden at Duf- 
field, near Derby, 171. — 

Bavaria, agriculture of, 445. 4 

Bayldon’s art of valuing rents and tillages 
(advertised), 233. 

Bayswater garden, 
respecting, 349. : 

Beattie, Mr. William, C.M.H.S., his descrip- 
tion of a vinery, and mode of training prac- 
tised in it, 172. 

Bees, on the winter management of, commu- 

nicated by Miss Ann Dingwall, 153. 
quality of their honey and wax relatively 
to the flowers they are selected from, 323 

Begbie, Mr., of the botanic garden, Kew, 352. 

Belgrave nursery, notice respecting, 221. 

Berberis fascicularis, 220. 

Bicheno, James Ebenezer, Esq. F.L.S., remarks 
by, on methods and systems of natural his- 
tory, 461. 

Biographies wanted for the Gard. Mag. 95. 

Bice avy some early horticulturists sug- 

ested. I Suet 

Bishop, ‘Mr. David, his history, description, 
and mode of treatment of Bishop’s early 
dwarf pea, 126. 

Blakie’s essay on the conversion of arable land 

into pasture (advertised), ib. 
essay on the management of farm- 
-yard manure (advertised), 233. 
treatise on hedges and hedge-row tim- 
ber (advertised), 232. 


Comte de Vandes, notice 


476 


Blakie’s treatise on mildew, wheat, lime, &c. 
(advertised), 282. 
treatise on the smut in wheat (adver- 
tised), ib. adh 
Bland, Michael, Esq. his jubilee pippin, 72. 
Blenheim, its lake and poplars, 17. ; 
Bletia Tankervilla, experimental observations 
on the culture of, by Mr. Otto, 188. 
Bliss, Mr. G., his fruit-grower’s instructor 
(advertised), 98. e 
Bonde, Count of, his improvements near Stock- 
holm, 446. i 
Bones, as manure in Denmark, 326. 

, as-manure in France, 323. 

, for manure where ground, and how sold, 
with other particulars, 333; how to collect for 
vine borders, 334. is 

Book-keeping, method of, by A. Trotter, Esq. 192. 
Books advertised for January 1826, 97; for 
April, 230; for July, 361; for October, 443. 
Books on Gardening, Agriculture, Botany, Do- 
mestic Economy, &c., published since January 
1824, including new editions, &c., 74. 
Books: America, 1824-25, 78; January 1826, 
78; April, 197; October, 443 
Britain, 1824-25, 74; January 1826, 74; 
April, 192; July, 312; October, 431. 
France, 1824-25, 76; January 1826, 76 ; 
April, 195; July, 318; October, 437. 
Germany, 1824, 77; 1825, 78; January 
1826, 77; April, 196; July, 520 ; October, 440. 
Books, Danish and Swedish, 1824, 77; 1825, 
78; January 1826, 77; April, 197; July, 322. 
Books, Dutch and Flemish, 1824, 77 ; 1825, 78 ; 
January 1826, 77; April, 197 ; October, 442. 
Books, italian, 1824, 773 1825, 78; January 
1826, 77; April, 196; July, 326. 
Russian and Polish, 1824, 77 ; 1825, 78 ; 
January 1826, 77 ; October, 442. 
Spanish and Portuguese, 1824, 77; 
1825, 78; January 1826, 77; April, 196; 
July, 322. a 
Books preparing for publication, 443. : 
reviewed for January 1826, 47 ; for April, 
155; for July, 287; for October, 415. 
Borage as manure, 200. 
Bornholz’s translation of Egger on the Culture 
of the Truffle, 320. 
Botanicai Cabinet, review of, 47. 60. 
Cultivator (advertised), 98. : 
Lectures, popular, delivered at Edin- 
burgh by professor Graham, 220 ; 
in Belfast by Dr. Drummond, 340. 
Magazine, review of, 47. 89. 
Magnifier, for gardeners, 358. 
Register, review of, 47. 60. (adver- 
Zised), 98. 362. 
Sketches, notice of, 192. 
Botanic Garden at Batavia, 52. 
at Calcutta, 55. 
at Edinburgh, 218. 
at the Isle of France, 55. 
at Madrid, 237. 
at Marylebone, broken up, 89. 
at New South Wales, 55. 86. 
at Spain, 236. 
at St. Petersburgh, 51; de- 
scribed, 89. 
at St. Vincent, 55; an account 
of, by the Rev. L. Guilding, B.A. F.i.S. 
: reviewed, 193. 
Botanic Garden at Trinidad, 55. 
at Warsaw, 377. 
of prince Razumoffsky, at Mos- 
cow, 84. 
» or Magazine of hardy Plants, 
reviewed, 48. 61. (advertised), 97. 
Botany, conversations on (advertised), 361. 

» lectures on, at Edinburgh, by Profes- 
sor Graham, 220; at Belfast, by Dr. 
Drummond, 340. 

> lectures on the elements of, by Dr. 

A. Todd Thomson (adveriised), 99. 
of Constantinople, by the Rev. R. Walsh, 
L.L.D. & C.M. 
of Dalhousie Castle and Gardens, by 
Mr. Joseph Archibald, C.M.H.S., 251. 


HLS, 293. 


INDEX. 


Botany, South African, Mr. Bowie’s intentions 
respecting (advertised), 473. 

Bouché, M. P. F., his observations on forcing 
the Turkish Ranunculus, 186. 

Bouché, on the culture of the Torch Thistle, 186. 

Boughton Mount, 35. 

Bourne, F., Esq., of Tereneure, 262. 

Bowers, Mr. John, his description of an Elruge 
Nectarine tree, in the garden of West Dean 
House, Sussex, 174. 

Bowers, on destroying the Bug and Scale on 

Pine plants, 308. 

Bowie, Mr. James, Botanical Collector at the 
Cape of Good Hope, his hints for the better 
cultivation of Cape Heaths, 363; his inten- 
tions (advertised), 473. 

Boxtree as manure, in France, 323. 

Braddick, John, Esq., F.H.S., his Claygate 

Pearmain Apple, 73. 
> on the Beurré Spence, and other 
Pears, and on the art of keeping Fruit, 144. 

Braddick, on the Present de Malines Pear, 33. 

, on three new keeping Pears, 249. 

Brash, Mr., on the culture and use of the sea 
or shore Cale (Crambe Maritima), 189. 

Brassica, or Cabbage family, on its different 
species and varieties, by Prof. Decandolle, 63. 

Breedon, the Rev. J. S., his Bere Court-pippin 
Apple, 73. 

Breese, Mr. John, grows Pines on boards placed 
over a pit filled with dung, &c., 308. 

Brewing, a practical treatise on, by C. N. Hay- 

man (advertised), 99. 
, Mr. Samuel Child’s treatise on (ad- 
vertised), 99. 

Brighton Athenzeum and Oriental Garden, 89. 

Brinjall or Aubergine, a variety of the Egg- 
plant Solanum Melongena, 307. 

British Botanist (advertised), 100. 

Entomology, by John Curtis, Esq. F.L.S. 
&c., remarks on, 317. 

Farmer, by Mr. John Finlayson, an- 

nounced, 99, remarks on, 192. 

Flower Garden, reviewed, 47. 61: 
Parks and Gardens, remarks on, by M. 
Lenné, royal garden engineer, Potsdam, 308. 
British Warblers, &c., by Mr. Robert Sweet, 

F.L.S., some account of, 193. 

Wines, how to manufacture, 95. 

Broccoli, to preserve in a growing state, from 
being injured by the frost, 224. 

Brookhouse, J. Esq., Cucumbers grown by him 
in a dung bed in the front of a peach house, 171. 

Brown, Robert, Esq., F.R.S., L.S. &c., 54. 

» Mr., gardener at Stowe, 89. 

Browns, Messrs., formerly of Perth, 256. 

Buchan, Mr. W., F.H.S., on improving the 
Gardens of Cottages, 275. 

Buck, Mr. W., his Elford seedling Grape, 72. - 

Buda Kale, on blanching and forcing, by John 

Wedgewood, Esq., 307. 

Buda-Kale, query respecting, 472. 

Budding in the Netherlands, 83. 

Bulbous-rooted Plants, culture, by Mr. Sweet, 3}. 

Roots, the Rev. W. Herbert’s treatise 
on (advertised), 99. 

Bulos, his Traité d’Agriculture et d’Horti- 
culture, noticed, 437. : 

Burges, Mr. James, his recipe for composing a 
liquid for effectually destroying Caterpillars, 
Ants, Worms, and other Insects, 389. 

Burn, Mr. Henry, F.H.S, his account of a new 
seedling Grape, 415. 

Burnard, J. P., Esq., on the remuneration of 
gardeners, 141. 

Burton, W. D., Esq., 353. : 

Bushy Park, near Dublin, the residence of Sir 
Robert Shaw, bart., 263. 

Bulletin des Sciences, Agricoles, et Econo- 
miques, remarks on, 320. 

Cabbage, on the tree variety, by Mr.P. Day, 307, 

» or Brassica family, see Brassica, 63. 

Cactus, several species of, gratted on Cactus 

triqueter, by Mr. John Nairn, 171. 
Speciosus, Speciosissimus, and other or- 
namental succulent Plants, on the treatment 
of, by Mr. W. J. Shennan, 398, 


INDEX. 


Caley, Mr. George, 194. 
Camellia Britannica, by Messrs. Chandler and 
Buckingham, some account of, 317. 
Japonica,var. Gloriosa, of Mr. Ross, 211. 
» new variety, from the garden of T. C. 
Palmer, Esq., 341. 
Oleifera, 87. 
, single white-flowered, 325. 
Campbell, Mr., of Bayswater Garden, 349. 
Canal digging machine in France, 323. 
Cape Heaths, hints for the better cultivation 
of, by Mr. James Bowie, 363. 
‘ , List of, which have been in flower 
in the Tooting Nursery in each month of the 
year, communicated by Messrs. Rollisson, 
nurserymen, Tooting, 366. 

Cara of Brazil, query respecting, 358 ; answ. 468. 
Carnations and Piccotees, wonderful collection 
of, by Mr. Hogg, Florist, Paddington, 450. 
Cairot, Turnip, and Radish, the method of 

rearing Seed of in the East Indies, by William 
Ingledew, Esq., 174. 
Cassilis, Earl of, 254, 257. 
Castlereagh House, County of Roscommon, 
described, 94. 
Caswell,G., his Esopus Spitzenberg apple, 72. 
Catalogue des Végetaux de Pleine Terre, &c. 
par M. Soulange-Bodin, account of, 186. 
Catalogue Raisonnée of Books on Horticulture, 
suggested, 469 
Caterpillars, ants, worms, and other insects, 
recipe for composing a liquid for effectually 
destroying, by Mr. James Burges, 389. 
Caterpillars in the Netherlands, 325. 
on cabbages, how destroyed in Li- 
thuania, 84, 
, remarks on their ravages on the 
pine forests of Franconia, 321. 
Cauliflowers, on a new mode of preserving, by 
Mr. Charles MacIntosh, 139. 
Cedar of Lebanon, grafting of, 199. 
, remarks on the effect of, in 
Landscape, by John Thompson, Esq. 118. 
Celery, grown in trenches, by Mr. J. Anderson, 
F.HL.S., gardener to the Earl of Essex, 170. 
Cels, M., Nurseryman, Paris, 49. 
Chamois Goat, 210. 

Chandler and Buckingham, Camellia Britan- 
nica, some account of, 317. : 
Charcoal dust, as a top dressing for onions, and 

as a cure for the clubbing in cabbages, by Mr. 
T. Smith, C.M.H.S., 293, 
Charlemont, Earl of, 264. 

Charlottenlund, a royal seat, Copenhagen, 272. 
Charlottenburgh, near Copenhagen, botanic 
garden of, 272. : 
Cherries, forcing of, in the 16th century, in 

France, 323. 
, on destroying a black insect, which 
infests, 464. 
, to scare birds from, 454. 
Child, Mr: Samuel, his treatise on brewing, (ad- 
- vertised), 99. 
Chinampas, or floating garden, 448. 
Chinese rose, as a stock for the yellow rose, 66. 
Chrysanthémums, account and description of 
five new Chinese, &c. 73. 
» in the gardens of the Horti- 
cultural Society, 87. 
Cinders and coal ashes, effects of, on plants, 224. 
Cistinez, review of, 48. 61. (advertised), 98. 
Clapton Nursery, notice respecting, 220. 
Classification of plants, remarks on, 435. ; 
Cleghorn, James, Esg. Accountant in Edin- 
- burgh, conductor of the Farmer’s Magazine, 
his tract on a general provident institu- 
tion for the benefit of the working classes, 
remarks on, 317. 
Clerk, Mr., botanical draughtsman, 61. 
Climate, considered with regard to Horticul- 
ture, by T. F. Daniell, Esq. F.R.S., 287. 
Clubbing in cabbages, to cure, 293. 
Coal ashes and eH effects of, on plants, 224. 
boea scandens, 12. 4 
Cophatt, ‘Williata, Esq, his work entitled The 
Woodlands; or, a Treatise on Planting, &c., 
aceount of, 195. 


KK 


4.77 
ae Insects and Silk Worms, in Spain, 


Cockerell, C. R., Esq., jun., 107. 

Cockles, discovery of their existence in fresh 
water, 335. 

Code of Agriculture, translated into French by 
M. Mathieu Dombasle, 80. 

Coffee from the seeds of Astragalus Beeticus, 
82. 440. 

Coloma, Count, of Malines, 34. 

Collyns, William, Esq., on a Devonshire prac- 
tice in planting vines, and on the use of salt 
as a manure for arable lands, and for renovat- 
ing grass lawns, 401. 

Colsa, a variety of Brassica, cultivated for its 
seeds, 64. 

Colville, Mr., nurseryman, 31; nursery, 221. 

Colzean Castle, treatment of the vines at, 254. 

Conservatory at Milburn Tower, 264; at Mr. 
Angerstein’s, Blackheath, zbid.; at Slane’s 
Castle, zbid. 

Conservatory at the Grange, Hampshire, 105; 
planting and list of plants, 108 

Conservatory at Vienna, 82. 

Constantinople, Botany of, by the Rev. Dr. 
Walsh, 293. 

Conversations on Botany (advertised), 254. 

Cooke, Mr., fruiterer, of London, 36. 

Copenhagen, gardens of, 270. 

Copperas, as a vegetable poison, 444. 

Coreopsis tinctoria, description of, 453. 

Cormack, Son, and Sinclair, nurserymen, New 
Cross, Deptford, 87. 

Cottage economy, 354. E 

Cottagers, premiums given to, 210. 

Cotton, growth of, in New Holland, 207. 

Country labourer, benefits to be derived by, 
from a garden, &e. by W. Stevenson, Esq. 101 
—by Mr. Donald, 269. 

Country seats, how ruined in Ireland, 13. 

__ in Ireland, omitted in the Ency- 
clopedia of Gardening, 94. 

Courtown House, County of Wexford, de- 
scribed, 94. : 

Covent Garden Market —January, February, 
and March, 216; April, May, and June, 
348; July, August, and September, 462. 

Cow tree, of South America, 86. 

Coxheath, new fruits planted on, by Mr. Brad- 
dick, 34 : x 

Crabtree, Miss, fruit of Pyrus Japonica exhi- 
hited by her, 87 r 

Cranberry, on the cultivation of the English 
and American, and the water cress at Bret- 
ton Hall, by Mr. Christie Duff, C.M.HLS. 151. 

Cucumber, a very large one, noticed, 453. 

Cucumbers, early, grown in a pit by Mr. John 

Mearns, 170. 
grown in a dung bed in the front of 
a peach house, by J. Brookhouse, Esq., 1715 
on forcing, by Mr. Thomas Allen, F.H.S., 416. 

Culinary vegetables, mode of accelerating in 
Louvaine, 325, 

Cultivation without dung, 201. 

Currants, hybrids, remarks on, 464. 

Curtis, John, Esq., his British Entomology, 
remarks on, 317. " 
Curtis, Mr. Samuel, his account of a lime 
duster for the destruction of insects, 415. 
Curtis, Mr. William, founder of the Botanical 

Magazine, 47, 59, 60. : 

Curtis’s directions for cultivating the Crambe 
maritima (advertised), 232. 

Cuttings of oranges, how to prepare, 266. 

Cyclamen Persicum, on the culture of, by Mr. 

John Wilmot, F.H.S., 386. 
, sweet scented, remarks on, 453. 

Dacre, the Rev. B., A.L.S., his testimonies in 
favour of salt as manure (advertised), 97. 

Dairies of Switzerland, remarks on, 321 

Dairy account book (advertised), 232. 

Dalhousie Castle and Gardens, &c. by Mr. J. 

Archibald, C.M.H.S., 251. ‘ 
, Countess of, a zealous and indefati- 
gable botanist, 255. 
Gardens, plan of, 252, 
Dalkeith, Botany of, 256, 257. 


9 


< 


478 


Dall, Mr. James, on raising and fruiting pines 
with the heat of leaves, without dung or fire 
heat, 306. 

Dalmatian strawberry, 82. 

Daniell, T. F., Esq. F.R.S., 38, 39. On climate 
with regard to Horticulture, 287. 

Daphne laureola, in Corsica, 199. 

Day, Mr. P., on the tree cabbage, 307. 

Dearn’s improved mode of building (advertise- 
ment), 233. 

Decandolle, Professor, 49; his memoirs on Le- 
guminosee, 319. 

Denmark, Botanic gardens of, 52. 

Horticulture of, 84. 

Deptford Nursery, 87. 

Dern, Mr., of Scarbriick, his mode of 
plants, 187. 

Desfontaines, Professor, 49. 

Dickens, C. S. Esq., hot-bed for forcing cucum- 
ber constructed by him, 169. 

Dickson, Mr. R., a spirited intelligent farmer 
from East Lothian, 88. 

Dingwall, Miss Anne, communication from 
her on the winter management of bees, 153. 

Distillation from plums, $0. 

Dodder, French mode of destroying, 79. 

Dombasle, M. Mathieu de, his translation of 
the Code of Agriculture, 80. 

Dombasle, M. Mathieu de, son Annales Agri- 
coles de Roville, account of, 196. 

Domestic animals in France, society for the 

amelioration of, 444. 
economy, 353. . 

Don, Mr. George, A.L.S., 56, 62, 164, 304. 
Donald, Mr. Robert, National and Practical 
Agriculture, &c., in rhyme, account of, 316. 
Donald, Mr., on a mode of keeping apples, 268. 
Douette-Richardot, Nicholas, de la Pratique 

de l’ Agriculture, &c., account of, 199. 

Douglas, Mr. David, 63. 

Down lands, enrichment of, in Holland, 445. 

Drip in hothouses, plan to prevent, by J. R. 
Neame, Esq., F.H.S., 431; by Mr. Saul, 481. 

Drummond’s First Steps to Botany (adver- 
tised), 234. 

Dry rot, mode of preventing, 336. 

Dublin, gardens of, 10. 

Dudgeon, Mr. John, 44. 

Duff, Mr. Christie, C.M.H.S,, on the cultiva- 
tion of the English and American cranberry 
and the water-cress, at Bretton Hall, 151. 

Duff, Mr., and Mr. W. Seymour, a new mode 
of training the peach tree, communicated by 
them, 128. 

Dunbar, Professor, F.R.S.E., catalogue of 
Eric in his collection, 131. 

Duncan, Mr. Andrew, sen., M.D., Vice-Pre- 
sident of the Caledonian Horticultural So- 
ciety, remarks on his discourse, &c., 218. 

Dunne, Mr., at Marley, 262. 

Du Petit Thouars, M., 48. 

Durham, General, of Largo, in Fife, vinery 
designed for, 254. 

Dutton, Hely, Esq., landscape-gardener, 358. 

Eaton Hall, near Chester, described by Mr. 
Lenné, 309. 

Eaux et foréts, traité général des chasses et 
peches, &c., par M. Baudrillart, 196. 

Eddison, Mr. John, of Penzance, 342. ~ 

Edible fruits of Sierra Leone, some account of 
them, &c., 164. 

Edinburgh Amateur Florist Society, 219. 

Education of gardeners, 8. 225. 268. : 

Edwards, Mr., Sydenham, F.L.S., botanical 
draughtsman, 47. 60. 

Egan, Mr., gardener, Mount Merrion, 26]. 

Egger, translation of, by Bornholz, on the 
culture of the truffle, 320. 

Egg plant, on cultivating and cooking a par- 
ticular variety, &c., by P. Rainier, Esq., 
R.N., F.HLS., &c., 307. 

Elm trees in Camberwell Grove, Surrey, on a 
disease which has attacked certain, by a con- 
stant reader, 378. cere 

Embankment at Rosslare, 495. 

Emigration of gardeners, 206. 

Endives, description of the different. varieties 
cultivated in the garden of the Horticultural ! 


ticketing 


INDEX. 


Society, London, in the year 1824, by Mr. 
Andrew Matthews, 418. 

Entomology, an introduction to, by W. Kirby 
M.A., F.R.S., F.L.S., and W. Spence, Esq., 
F.L.S. (advertised), 99. 361 ; remarks on, 192. 

Entomology, British, a nomenclature of (ad- 
vertised), 361. 

Epipactis palustris, found near Dalkeith, 257. 

Epsom nursery, 29. 

Ericz, catalogue of, in the collection of Pro- 

fessor Dunbar, F.R.S.E., &c., 131. * 

classification of, according to their na- 
tive soils and habitations, 364. 

in flower in the Tooting nursery, from 
Oct. Ist, to Nov. 26th, 1825, 88. 

in flower in the Tooting nursery, during 
a whole year, 364. 

Espalier for fruit trees, invented by Mr. A. 
Stewart, C.M.H.S., 340. 

Evaporation, heat and moisture, on the rela- 
tions of, 27. 

Excursion Horticulturale, Récit d’une, fait a 
Londres, dans le mois d’Avril, 1824, par 

M. Soulange-Bodin, reviewed, 189. 

Exotic Flora, by Professor Dr. Hooker, 47. 60. 

Experiments, hints for, 355. 

Falk, Baron, ( 

Farm buildings, book of designs for (adver- 

tised), 97. 
royal, in Denmark, some account of, 446, 
Farmer’s account book (advertised), 232. 
magazine, 8. : 
memorandum book (advertised), 232. 

Farming Society of Ireland, April 8, 339. 

Felton, S. Esq., queries and suggestions by, 469. 

Fence, a formidable one, by Mr. Groom, 350. 

American, 327. 

Ferraria Pavonia, on the culture of, by Mr. 
L. Mathieu, 188. 

Ferussac, Baron de, 81. 

Field beet, art of obtaining sugar from, 319. 

gardening, and on the gardens of farm 
servants in Scotland, by Verus, 259. 

Fig and grape, an account of a method of ob- 
taining very early crops of, by T. A. Knight, 
Esq., F.R.S., &c., 426. 

Fig-trees, on, and an account of their cultiva- 
tion, &c., by J. Sabine, Esq. F.R.S. &c. 169. 
Fig-trees, the Rev. G. Swayne’s mode of pro- 
tecting the branches of, during winter, 306. 
Finlayson, Mr. John, his British Farmer an- 
nounced, 99; reviewed, 192. 
Fischer, Dr., of Petersburgh, 51 
Fish, idea of naturalizing, by Mr. 
Fishing Book (advertised), 47+. 
Fleetwood, Mr. Thomas, on hastening the ma- 

turity of grapes on open walls, 169. 
Fletcher, Mr. R., his garden and vinery, 254. 
Flora Conspicua, review of, 48. 61. (adver- 

tised), 99. 474. 

of Dalhousie Castle, &c. 256. 

» Society of, at Brussels, 352. - 

, the Scottish Cryptogamic, by Robert R. 
Greville, LL.D., &c., review of, 162. . 

Florist Society, Edinburgh amateur, 219. 

Flower, artificial, maker of, 541. ® 

Flower-garden, Chilian, 206. 

Flower-pots, ornamental forms for, by Mr, Wil- 

mot, of the Lewisham nursery, 336. 

Flower-shows, Islington, 346; Windsor, 346 ; 
Hammersmith, 347; Chelsea, 347 ; Dulwich, 
347 ;, Newington, 347; Lancaster, 347. 450; 
Manchester, 450; Preston, 450; Uxbridge, 
450; Windsor, 450; York, 450. 

Floyd’s Essay on Dog Breaking (advertised), 

233. 474. 
Game Book (advertised), 474. 

Fonthill Abbey, 210. 

Forbes, Mr. John, A.L.S., 56, 62; inscription 

‘to his memory, 360, 

Forbes, Mr., on country seats in Ireland, 
omitted in the Encyglopedia of Gardening, 94, 

Forrest, Mr., of Sion House, 349. 

Forsyth, Mr., gardener, Dublin, 13. 

eee Treatise on Fruit Trees (advertised), 
234. 

Foutk, Mr. W., on the Madeira vaccinium, 302. 


. 84. 
Bakewell, 335. 


Fountains proposed for St. James’s Park, 283, 


' 


INDEX. 


France, botanic gardens of, 48. 

Fraser, Mr. Charles, C.M.H.S., Curator of the 
Colonial Garden at Port Jackson, 86. 

Braet ee James, on the gardening of Ireland, 

Fredriksborg, a royal seat, Copenhagen, 270. 

Fromont, garden of, 198. 

Frost, Mr. John, 89. 

Fruit Grower’s Instructor (advertised), 98. 

Fruit,infested with worms,danger of eating,454. 

> hew varieties of, to raise, 324. 
> hotices of new or remarkable varieties, 
ripened in the summer and autumn of the 
year 1822, which were exhibited at meetings 
of the Horticultural Society, 72. 
Fruit trees, advantage of summer pruning, 325. 
» how to distinguish by blossom, 200. 
» Mode of training en quenouille,466. 
; observations upon the effects of 
age upon the different kinds of, with an 
account of some new varieties of nectarines, 
by T. A. Knight, Esq., &c. 68. 

Fruit trees, on ringing of, by Mr. R. Werth- 
meister, 187. 

Fulton, Mr. George, on the use and abuse of 
watering vegetables in dry seasons, and on 
the advantages of shade to culinary crops in 
times of great drought, 399. 

G., Mrs., query and answer, 359. 

G. R., on the importance of regularity -and 
systematic conduct in gardeners, 278. 

G, R. G., his remarks on the treatment under- 
gardeners receive from their masters, 410, 
Game Book, or Sportsman’s Journal (adver- 

tised), 233. ; : 

Gandy, Mr. Walter, his life and death, 472. 

Gardens, and state of gardening in Denmark, 
by Mr. Jens Petersen, 269. 

Garden Botany, review of, 47. 

Gardens of Copenhagen, 270. 

of cottages, on their improvement, as 
practised by Lord Cawdor, 275. 
of farm servants in Scotland, 259. 
Garden of Fromont, 198. 
Sherard, at Eltham, 55. 
oriental, of Brighton, 211. 450. 

Gardeners, education of, 225. 350. 463; emi- 

gration of, 206. 356. 


Gardener, on the evil effects of being lodged | 


any where else than in his garden, 135. 
Gardeners, young men in the Horticultural 
Society’s garden, 345. 
under, remarks on the treatment 
they receive from their masters, 
by G. R. G., 410, 
on the importance of system and 
regularity in their conduct, 278. 
on the remuneration® of, by J. P. 
Burnard, Esq., 141. 
Gardener’s Magazine, its use, 1. 9. 268. 
of Germany, 81. 321. 
Gardening and agriculture of China, 448. 
Gardening in Ireland, present state of, 10. 261. 


in the Illinois, by Mr. William Hall, | 


late of Ewell, Surrey, 327. 
in Poland, on the present state of, 
by Professor Kitaiewski, 375. 
, its agreeableness and utility, 1. 268. 
Society of Prussia, 51.; transactions 
of, reviewed, 186, 308. 
Geraniacez, review of, 47. 61. ; (advertised) 98, 
German mode of destroying caterpillars, 81. 
Germany, botanic gardens of, 50). 
Germination of seeds, 323. 
Ghent, shew of plants at, 83. 
> society of agriculture and botany, 201. 
Gibbs, Mr., of the Brompton nursery, 355. _ 
Gibson, Mr. William, pine apples grown by him 
under a frame with the heat of leaves alone, 
171; his life and death, 360. 
Glasgow botanic garden, catalogue of, 93. 
Glazing sashes, a new mode proposed by Mr. 
John Read, 307 ; by Mr. Saul, 431. 
Goats of Thibet, 80. 
Goldie, Mr., of the Monkwood nursery, 84. 
Goodwin's new system of shoeing horses (ad- 
vertised), 233. 


4:79 


Gooseberry plant, a remarkably large, growing 
in the garden of Mr. William Bates, a mar- 
ket gardener, at Duffield, near Derby, 171. 

Gooseberry shows, 211. 450. 

Gorrie, Mr. Archibald, C.M.H.S., on the Hun- 
tingdon willow, 44. 

Gourds and pompions, on the cultivation of, by 
Mr. Henry Gray, 150. 

Gowen, J. R. Esq. F.H.S., on a hybrid amaryllis 
produced between A. vittata and A, regina 
vittata, 70. 

Grafting and budding, in the Illinois, 329. 

> modes of, in France, 323. 

the cedar on the larch, 199. 

the pine and fir tribe, 79. 

wax, utility of, by D. Powell, Esq., 67. 

Grain, preservation of, on a new plan, 446. 

Granadilla, on setting the fruit of, 15. 

Grange, Mr., fruiterer, London, 35. 

Grape, an account of a new seedling, by Mr. 

Henry Burn, F.H.S., 415. 

, a large plant of the Hamburgh variety 

noticed, 453. 

and fig, an account of a method of ob- 
taining very early crops of, by T. A. 
Knight, Esq. F.R.S. &c., 426. 

> 4 moveable trellis for, by Mr. Long, 

noticed, 454. (advertised), 473. 

, cultivation of, at Inistioge, 340. 458; 

in Sicily, 82. 

> Fettenham Park muscat, 87. 
5 Frontignac, a peculiarity in the treat- 

ment of, at Dalhousie Castle, 253, 

, on fecundating the blossom of the black 

Damascus, by Mr. W. Ross, 308. 

» on forcing, as practised in Denmark, by 

Mr. Peter Lindegaard, C.M.H.S., 168. 

on open wails, on hastening the maturity 

of, by Mr. Thomas Fleetwood, 169. 

» sorts grown near Copenhagen, 271. 
» Elford seedling, 72. 
, West’s St. Peter, 36. 

Grass garden at the New Cross nursery, 115. 

Grasses, culture of, in Holland, 445. 

of the Netherlands, work on, 442. 

» On cultivating a collection of, in 
pleasure-grounds or flower-gardens, &c. by 
Mr. George Sinclair, F.L.S. H.S. &c., nur- 
sseryman, 26. 112, 

Gray, Mr. Henry, on the cultivation of gourds 
and pompions, 150. 

Great Britain, garden botany of, 53. 

Grece’s Facts and Observations on the Hus- 
bandry of Canada (advertised), 232. 

Green fly and other insects, a simple, effectual, 
and expeditious mode of destroying, by Mr. 
Thomas M‘Laurin, 390. 

Green-house, description of a, in the garden of 
Sir Robert Preston, Bart. at Valleyfield, in 
Perthshire, by Mr. Alexander Stewart, 
C.M.HLS., 423. 

Green vegetable manure, on the effects of, 20. 
Greenshields, Mr. William, on the culture of 
the pine-apple, 426. , es, 
Greville, Robert K., LL.D. &c., review of his 
Scottish Cryptogamic Flora, 62. ‘ 
Grierson, W. Esq., Secretary to the Dumfries 

and Galloway Horticultural Society, 217. 

Grisenthwaite’s new Theory of Agriculture, 
(advertised), 233. : : ah 

Groom, Mr., F.H.S., of Walworth’s Florists 
garden, 349. ; 

Guilding, the Rev. L., B.A. F.R.S., his account 
of the Botanic Garden of St. Vincent, re- 
viewed, 193. . 

Gyllenborg’s Principles of Agriculture (aduc7- 
tised), 233. 

Hackney Nursery Garden catalogue, by Conrad 
Loddiges and Sons, remarks on, 318 #4, 
Tail and thunder protectors, remarks on, 318. 

In Savoy, 325. 4 
, Society for assurance against, 444. ; 

| Hall, William, Esq., late of Ewell, Surrey, his 
letter from the Illinois, 327. Y 

Hall’s concise treatise on destroying heath 
(advertised), 232, ; ‘4 

) Halliday, Mrs,, a Scotch botanist, 256, 


i 
| 
} 
| 


480 


Hamilton, W., Esq., M.D.,o0n the cultivation in 
England of the Carolina wax-tree, 403. 


Hammer for wall-trees, improved form of, 213. | 


Hanoverian method of saving lettuce seed, 81. 

Hardy heaths, monthly list of, which have been 
in flower in the open air at Messrs. Rollin- 
son’s nursery, Tooting, 374. 

Hares or rabbits, to preserve plants from, 210. 

Hay, its compressien for exportation, 327. 

Hay-making machine, in Switzerland, 200. 

Hay, Mr. J., garden architect, Edinb. 218, 252. 

Hayman’s Practical Treatise on Brewing (ad- 
vertised), 99. 233. 

Haynes’s Essay on Soils and Composts (adve7- 
tised), 232. 

Hayward’s Science of Agriculture (advertised), 


Science of Horticulture (adver- 
‘ tised), 234. 

Heat, moisture, and evaporation, on the re- 
lations of, 37. 

Heaths, Cape, list of Professor Dunbar’s col. 
lection, 131. Monthly catalogue of those in 
flower in the Tooting nursery throughout the 
year, 364. On the culture of, by Mr. Bowie, 
361. In flower in the Tooting nursery in 
October and November, 1825, 88. 

Hempel, the Rey. Mr., the German pomologist, 
190. 324. 

Herbaceous vegetables, mode of grafting, by the 
Baron de Tschudy, 79. 

Herbert, the Rev. W., his treatise on bulbous 
roots (advertised), 99. 

Hethrington, Mr., President of the Irish Hor- 
ticultural Society, 264. ‘ 

Hints on the duties and qualifications of land- 
stewards and agents (advertised), 233. 

Hints on the formation of gardens and plea- 
sure-grounds (advertised), 232. 

Hiort’s treatise on the construction of chim- 
neys, &¢., remarks on, 452. 

Hirst, Mr. William, on the culture of orchi- 
deous plants, 465. 

Hoe, improvement on, 343. 

Hogg, Mr. Thomas, florist, Paddington, his col- 
lection of carnations, 450. 

Holboll, Mr., botanic gardener, Charlotten- 
burgh, 272. 

Holford, Charles, Esq., F.H.S., his description 
of a pine-house and pits, 172. 

Holland, botanic gardens of, 52. 

Hooker, W. J., LU.D. F.R.A. LS. &c., 47. 60. 

Hornby’s Dissertation on Lime in Agriculture 
(advertised), 233. 

Hornemann, Mr., a celebrated botanist, 272. 

Hornor, F. Esq., 351. 

Horses, Russian work on, 442. 

Horticultural Impostor, 454. 

residence (advertised), 231. 
Society, Caledonian, 5. 92. 93, 218. 
337. 455. 
Society, Caledonian,their garden, 
description of, and plan, 90, 
Society of Cambridge, 450. 
of Dumfries and Gallo- 
way, 219. 338. 456. 
of Edinburgh, New, 219. 
of Glasgow, 456. 
of Hampshire, 450. 
of Hereford, 335. 449, 
of Ireland, 339. 457. 
and garden at Jamaica, 
55. 86. 332. 
of London, beneficial in- 
fluence of, 62. 
Observations on the arti- 
cle of ‘* A Fellow of the Society,’’ relative 
to the conduct and administration of, &c., 393. 
Horticultural Society, number of Fellows of, 
in 1824, 62. 
Remarks on, 391. 146. 
> garden, 63. 213. 344. 461. 
notices of new or re- 
markable varieties of fruits ripened in the 
summer and autumn of the year 1822, 72. 

Horticultural Society , meetings of, December 

20th, January 3d and 17th, February 7th and 


INDEX. 


Q1st, 212. March 7th and 21st, 213. April 
4th and 18th, 341. May 2d and 16th. 342. 
June 6th and 20th, 344. July 4th and 18th, 
459. August Ist and 15th, 460. 

Horticultural Society’s report of the garden 
committee reviewed, 312. State of the ac- 
counts of the Society, and-of the garden, 316. 

Horticultural Society’s garden, report on, re- 
viewed, 312, 

Horticultural Society’s regulations for the ad- 
mission of gardeners, 314. State of the ac- 
counts, 316. 

Horticultural Society’s garden, reasons for not 
subscribing towards the formation or support 
of, &c. by Mentor, 412. 

Horo ere Society, sale of garden produce, 


Horticultural Society, transactions of, reviewed, 
Vol. v., 62. and 103. Vol. vi. parti. 287. Vol. 
vi. part iii., notice of, 312. Vol. vi. part ii. 

“reviewed, 415. 

Horticultural Society of New York, 205. 

in Paris, hopes of esta- 
blishing, 81. 
of Ross, 449. 
of Yorkshire, particulars 
of their meeting in May, 334; in July, 449. 
Horticulture in St. Petersburgh, 447, 
of Denmark, 84. : 
* in Kamtchatka, 326. 
of Van Diemen’s Land, 208. 
Hortus Anglicus (advertised), 100. 
Cantabrigiensis of Mr. Donn, 57. 
ees Woburnensis (advertised), 
98. 

Hosack, Professor, 53. Descriptive notice of 
Waltham House, 205. 

Hotbed for forcing cucumbers, constructed by 
C. S. Dickens, Esq. 169. 

Hothouse bulbous-rooted plants, on the cultiva- 

tion of, 31. 

fire-places, directions for the ma- 
nagement of, by William Atkin- 
son, Esq. F.H.S., 167. 

flues, an account of an experiment 
on, &c. by Mr. Matthias Saul, 152. 

flues, on the management of, by the 
Rev. G. Swayne, 430. 

Hothouses, apparatus for ventilating, by Mr. 
G. Mugliston, 173; by J. Williams, Esq. 419. 

Hothouses, hint for heating, by gas, 355. 

Hoy, Mr., F. L. S., his supposed invention, 266. 

Huddlestone, T. C. Esq., F. H.S., his account 
of an attempt to arrest the ravages of the 
aphis lanigera, &c., 388. 

Humboldt, Baron de, 49. 86. 

Hume, Sir Abraham, Bart., F.R.S. H.S. &c. 
communication from him on some remarkable 
specimens of exotics, 154. 

Hunneman, Mr. J., botanical and horticultural 
agent, on the French or Teltow turnip, 307. 

Hunt’s Picturesque Domestic Architecture (ad- 
vertised), 97. 4 

Huntingdon Willow, on the cultivation of, asa 
timber tree, 44. ? 

Hutchison, Mr. James, gardener, 257. 

Hutton, Dr. James, 38. 40. 

Hyde Park, lodges now erecting in, by W. D. 
Burton, Esq. 353. 

Hyde Park and Kensington gardens, improve- 
ment of, 89. By John Thomson, Esq., 280. 
By the Conductor, 283. 

Hygrometer of Mr. Daniell, 287. 

Hypericum crispum, poison to sheep, 82. 

Ice-house at St. Ouen, near Paris, 444. 

Indian Millet in Germany, 82. 

Ingledew, William, Esq., on the method of rear- 
ing seed in the East Indies, &c. of the carrot, 
turnip, and radish, to prevent the deterior- 
ation of those vegetables, 174. 

Insects and crustacea, directions for collecting 

and preserving (advertised), 360. 
on apple and cherry trees, method of 
destroying, by T. Patherus, Esq. 169. 
on mignonette, queries respecting, 472. 
Island of Jersey, its horticulture, 87. 


Italy, botanic gardens of, 52. 


INDEX. 


Italy, north of, remarks on its agriculture and 
gardening, 322. 

Jobbing gardener, on the life of, 24.’ 

Johns, W., M.D., his work on Practical Botany, 
&c. an account of, 195. ; (advertised), 231. 

Johnson’s Essay on the Uses of Salt for Agricul- 
tural Purposes (advertised), 232. 

Johnston, Mr. Andrew, his description of a pine- 
pit, to be heated by steam, erected in Shug- 
borough gardens, Staffordshire, 407. 

Jones, Mr., optician, Charing Cross, 38. 

Judd, Mr. Daniel, F.H.S. on transplanting peas 
for early crops, 164. 

Jussieuean Classification, remarks on, 435. 

Kensington Gardens and Hyde Park, improve- 
ments on, 89. 

Ker, John Bellenden, Esq. F.L.S.H.S., &c., 60. 

Kerr, Mr., gardener, 352. 

Kew Gardens, notices respecting, 54. 222. 352. 

Kirby, William, Esq. M.A., F.R-S. & L.S., and 

_ W. Spence, F.L.S., Esq., their introduction to 
Entomology (advertised), 90 ; remarks on, 192. 

Kitaiewski, Professor, his account of the pre- 
sent state of gardening in Poland, 375. 

Knapp’s Graminea Britannica (advertised), 474. 

Knevet, Mr., Turnham Green, 87. 

Knight, Mr. Joseph, F.H.S., nurseryman, 
King’s Road, 207. 

Knight’s nursery, King’s Road, notice of, 221. 

Knight, T. A. Esq., F. R. S., Pres. Hort. Soc., 

&c. his account of a method of ob- 
taining very early crops of the grape 
and‘fig, 
his account of a new variety of plum, 
called the Downton imperatrice, 68. 
his hypothesis concerning green veget- 
able manure, 20, 
his observations upon the effects of 
age on different kinds of fruit trees, 
with an account of some new varie- 
ties of nectarines, 68 
his observations on the cultivation of 
strawberries, 304. 
on the influence of pollen in cross 
breeding upon the colour of the seed 
coats of plants, and the qualities of 
their fruits, 68. 
on the preparation of strawberry plants 
for early forcing, 163, 
on the protection of the blossoms of 
wall trees, 173. 
upon the beneficial effects of protecting 
the stems of fruit-trees from frost 
in early spring, 424. 

Koelreuteria paniculata, fine specimens of, de- 
scribed, Essex, 452. 

Labour book (advertised), 232. 

Lachlan, Robert, Esq. on hybrid currants, 464, 

Lactometers, various sorts, 204. 

Ia Gasca, Professor Don Mariano, 85; on the 
botany and gardening of Spain, 235. 

Lambert, Aylmer Bourke, Esg., F.R.S. 
V.P.L.S., &c. &c. 216, 248. 357. 

Land, price of, at Warsaw, 326. 

Landscape gardening, Essays on, by Richard 
Morris, Esq. (advertised), 100. 

Landscape gardening in Britain, 5. 

of Britain and Germany, 
comparative remarks on, by Mr.:Lenné, 310. 

Larix communis, specimens of, in Poland, 377. 

Lathrza squamaria, culture of, 256. 

Laurel, common, in Denmark, remarks on, 203. 

Lazenki, a palace near Warsaw, 377. 

Lee’s Nursery, Hammersmith, notice of, 220. 

Leggett, Mr., a landscape-gardener of original 
talent, 262. 

Leguminosz, Prof. Decandolle’s work on, 319, 

Lemon and Orange Trees, management of im- 
ported plants, by Mr. W. Moore, 152. 

Lenné, M, royal garden engineer at Potsdam, 
on British parks and gardens, 308. 

Lime-duster, for the destruction of insects on 
fruit-trees, account of, by Mr. S.Curtis, 415. 

Leschenault, M., 48. 

Lettuce seed, Hanoverian method of saving, 81. 

Leuchs Char, Volstandige Auleitung zur Mis- 
tung der Thiere, account of, 196. 


481 


Levingston’s practical treatise on the goose- 
berry (advertised), 252. 

Lilium, on an anomalous appearance of, &c., by 
E. M. Baines, Esq. Surgeon, Hendon, 273. 

Lily of Solomon, 298. ‘ 

Lima, or Butter Bean, 329. 

Lindegaard, M. Peter, C.M.H.S., gardener to 
the king of Denmark, on. forcing grapes, as 
practised in Denmark, 168; on the cultiva- 
tion of asparagus during the winter, 173. 

Lindley, John, Esq., F.L.S. &c., 60. 87. 212. 

, On a disease in elm trees, 381, 382. 
~ , on the new or rare plants in the Chis- 
wick Garden, &c., 302, 
» on packing seeds and plants in foreign 
countries, 335. 
5 Mr. George, C.M.H.S., his classifica- 
tion of peaches and nectarines, 174, 225. 

Linnean Classification, remarks on, 435. 

Linsey, Mr., gardener to the duke of Devon- 
shire at Chiswick, 89. 

Liston, Sir Robert, bart., his conservatory at 
Milburn Tower, 264, 

Lloyd’s Botanical Terminology, notice of, 431 

Lockhead, W., Esq., M.W.S., 194. 

Loddiges, Conrad and Sons, 47. 56; catalogue 
of the different species of palm cultivated in 
the stoves of the Hackney Gardens, 136. 

Loddiges, catalogue of their garden, 318. 

» Conrad, Hsq., death of, 229. 

Lombardy Poplar, in park scenery, effect of, 16. 

» remarks on Mr. Thompson’s 
observations on the effect of, in park scenery, 
by Richard Morris, Esq. F.L.S., 116. 

London Nurseries and Market Gardens, 2. 

Lonicera flexuosa and Japonica, 344. 

Loudon’s Encyclopedia of Agriculture (adver- 

tised), 233. 
Gardening (advertised), 234. 

Love Apple, see Tomata, 353. 

Lucombe, Pince, and Co., their Golden Necta- 
rine noticed, 453; (advertised), 473. 

Lunatics, employment of, in agriculture, in the 
Netherlands, 326. 

Lyman, Theodore, Esq., his country-seat in 
Massachusetts described, 205. 

Lyons, county of Kildare, described, 94. 
M‘Adam’s observations on the trusts for the 
care of turnpike roads (advertised), 233. 
M‘Adam’s remarks on road making (adver- 

tised), 233. 
roads in France, 199. 

M‘ Arthur, Mr. P., F.H.S., his account of a con- 
servatory erected at the Grange, &c., 105. 

M‘ Arthur, his description of the mode of pre- 
paring the soil, &c., with a list of plants in 
the conservatory at the Grange, 108. 

M‘Cabe, Mr., Bushy Park, Dublin, 263. 

M‘Dougal, Mr. D., his method of destroying 
worms and slugs, 89, 

Mac Intosh, Mr. Charles, on a new verge-cut- 
ter and orange tub, and also on a new mode 
of preserving cauliflowers, 139. 5 

Mackay, Mr. J. B., nurseryman, King’s Road, 

and at Clapton, 216. 352. 
» Mr. John Townshend, Dublin, 11. 262. 

M‘Laurin, Mr. Thomas, his mode of destroying 
the green fly and other insects, 390. 

M‘Leay, Alexander, Esq. I'.R.S. L.S., &c. 86. 

W. S., M.A. F.L.S., 380. 

M‘Leish, Mr., a distinguished landscape gar- 
dener in Ireland, 264. 

Maclaura aurantiaca, some account of, 356. 

Macphail’s Gardener’s Remembrancer (adver- 
tised), 234. si 

M‘Naughton, Mr, Archibald, on the life of a 
jobbing gardener, 24. 

M‘Rae, Mr. James, C.M.H.LS., 63. 

Mace, substitute for, 470. : 

Maddock’s Florists’ Directory (advertised), 232. 

Madeira Vaccinium, on the cultivation of, by 
Mr. William Foulk, 302. E 

Madras citron, remarkable specimen of, 154. 

Magnolia conspicua, specimen of, 154. 

fuscata, fine specimen of, 457. 
macrophylla in flower, at Chiswick 
and Harringay, 88. 344 


4.82 


Maize, its naturalization in Germany, 81. 

Malope trifida, notice of, 468. . 

Malton’s designs for cottages and villas (ad- 
vertised), 233. 

Mangold Wurzel, advantages of cultivating, 
and use as a food for dogs, 454. 

Manuel du Pécheur Francais, remarks on, 438. 

Pratique du Laboureur, 437. 
Manures, borage, 200; yeast so applied, 224. 
Moe M. T., of Geneva, on vegetable poison, 
9 


Marley, the seat of —— Latouche, Esq., 262. 
Martius and Spix, Drs., 51. 
Martius, Dr. Von, the celebrated traveller, some 
notice of his works, 337. 
Martyn’s Flora Rustica (advertised), 232. 
Massachusett’s Agricultural Repository, 197. 
Masseli, Mr. F., on shortening tap-roots, 188. 
Masters, Mr. John, F.HL.S., of the Stoke New- 
ington Nursery, 211. 
Masters’, Mr. John, F.H.S., historical notice of 
two varieties of the garden pea, 153. 
Mathieu, Mr. L., commercial gardener, Berlin, 
his mode of culture of the rhododendra. 
Mathieu, Mr. L., on Ferrara pavonia, 188. 
Matthews, Mr. Andrew, his description of the 
different varieties of endives, &c., 418. 
Mearns, Mr. John, cucumbers grown in a pit 
by him, 170. 
Medlar, used as a stock for pears by Captain 
Rainier, 308. : 
Melianthus major, remarks on its culture, 453. 
Melon feast at Southampton, 450, 
_ grounds, moveable, of M.S. Bodin, 199. 
Mentor, his reasons for not subscribing towards 
the formation of the garden of the Horticul- 
tural Society of London, &c., 412. 
Merino, a seat near Dublin, 264. 
Merville, the villa of Lord Downes, Dublin, 14. 
Milburn Tower, conservatory at, 264. 
Milk, a treatise on, noticed, 317. 
of the cow tree, 86. 
preparations of, in Flanders, 83. 
Miller, Philip, F.R.S., 43. 55. 
Mr., Secretary to the Horticultural So- 
ciety at Jamaica, 86. 
Millet, culture of, in Germany, 82. 
Moat Park, County of Roscommon, 94. 
Modern art of laying out grounds, remarks on, 6. 
Moisture, heat and evaporation, on the rela- 
tions of, 37. 
Mole ploughs, in Switzerland, 82. 
Monck, Sir C. M. L., Bart., on destroying 
worms in pots, 307. 
Monkwood hursery, of Mr. Goldie, 85. 
Monocotyledone, remarks on, 429. f 
Moore, Mr. William, on the management of 
newly-imported orange and lemon trees, 152. 
Moreton’s revolving harrow, 88 


Morris, Richard, Esq. F.L.S., 48. 61 ; his essays. 


on landscape gardening (advertised), 100. 254. 

Morris, Richard, Esq. F.L.S., his Flora Con.. 
spicua (advertised), 99. 234. 473.; remarks 
on, 432. 

Morris, Richard, Esq. F.L.S., his remarks on 
Mr. Thompson’s observations on the effect of 
the Lombardy poplar in park scenery, 116. 

Moscow, agricultural society of, 326. 

Moss, growth of plants in, 343. 

Mortemart-Boisse, Baron de, 81. 

Mountain rice, its culture in Germany, 81. 

Mount Merrion, — Verschoyle, Esq. 261. 

Mugliston, Mr. George, his description of an 
apparatus for ventilating hot-houses, 173. 

Mulberry-trees, arrival of in Ireland, 223. 340. 

Munro, Mr., of the Horticultural Society’s 
garden, Chiswick, 273. 

Murray, John, Esq. F.S.A. L.S.H.S. &c., his 
remarks on the silk worm, &c. reviewed, 
317; opinion of paragreles, 319. 

Musk cluster rose, as a stock for the yellow 
rose, 66. 

Mustard seed of Scripture, 89. 

Myrica Carolinensis, 404. 

cerifera, culture of in Germany, 199. 

Nairn, Mr. John, his ‘‘ Nairn’s scarlet” straw- 

berry, 72. : 


INDEX. - 


Nairn, Mr. John, several species of cactus 
gratted by him on cactus triquetur, 171. 
Naturalisation of plants, by ‘I. C. Lewchs, 324. 
Neame, T. R. Esq., plan for preventing the 
drip in hot-houses, 431. ~ 
Nectarine and peach, on almond stocks, re- 
marks, including the result of some experi- 
ments on budding, by Mr. William Ander- 
son, F.L.S.H.S. &c., 384. 
Nectarine, Pince’s golden described, 403; (ad 
vertised), 473. 
» an account of some new varieties 
by J. A. Knight, Esq. &c., 68 
Nectarines and peaches on the same tree, 471. 
Nectarine-tree, Elruge, description of one in 
the garden of West-Dean House, Sussex, by 
Mr. John Bowers, 174. 
Neottia nidus avis, in woods on the Esk, 257. 
Nerium oleander splendens, on the culture of, 
by Mr. James Reeve, 402. 
Netting, woollen, for fruit trees, by Sir Robert 
Vaughan, 341. 
Nettle, numerous uses of, 199. : 
Newman, Mr. John, on the-culture of Arachis 
hypogea, 66. 
New Zealand hemp, culture of in Ireland, 94, 
Nicol, Mr. Walter, garden architect, 251. . 
Noehden, Dr., his death, 229. 
Noisette, Mr., nurseryman, Paris, 49. 
Nolan, Mr., of the royal forcing gardens, 
Kew, 223. 273. : 
North America, botanic gardens of, 5¥. 
Nova Scotia, collection of plants from, 255, 
Nursery in the island of Jersey, 87.' ~ 
Nut-tree of Constantinople, fine specimen, 452. 
Oak evergreen, on raising in pots, &c,, 222. 
(Enanthe crocata described, 454. : 
Olas stems of trees as a substitute for ringing, 
4. 


Oldacre, Mr. Isaac, F.H.S. gardener to the 
Emperor of Russia, on -West’s St. Peter 
grape, 36 

Oldacre, Mr. Isaac, F.H.S. his Spring Grove 
Persian peach; on Wilmot’s superb straw- 
berry, 278. 

Oleiferous cruciferous plants, 64, 65. 

Onions, on a mode of forcing them to produce. 
bulbs in clusters at an early season, 307. 

Onions, charcoal dust a top dressing for, 293. 

Orange and lemon trees, on the management 
of newly imported, by Mr. W. Moore, 152. 

Orange tub and new verge cutter, by Mr. 
Charles M‘Intosh, and also on a new mode 
of procuring cauliflowers, 139. 

Orchidez, Mr. Stock’s inquiry respecting, 358. 

Orchideous plants, culture of, 464, 465. 

Original drawings and sketches of natural 
history (advertised), 474. 

Otto, Mr., his observations on Dern’s mode 

of ticketing plants, 187. 
, his experimental observations on 
the culture of the Bletia Tankerville, 188. 

Pzonia papaveracea, Madras citron, and 
Magnolia conspicua, specimens of, 154. 

Palms, catalogue of the different species of, 
cultivated in the stoves of the Hackney 
garden, by Messrs. Loddiges, 136. 

Palms, Dr. Martius’ epeodic work on, 51. 
Palmer, T. C., Esq. F.H.S., his culture of the 
double yellow rose, 66 ; new camellia, 341. 

Pantheon, Regent’s Park, 351. 

Paragréles, 444; Professor Murray’s remarks 
on, 319; by M. Ch. Richardot, remarks on, 
318 ; in Savoy, 325. 

Parks, Mr. J. Damper, botanical collector, 63 ; 
on managing Tigridi pavonia, 306 

Parks and public squares of London, remarks 
on, by Mr. Lenné, 311. ‘ 

Parmentier, M. le Chevalier, mayor of Enghien, 
49 ; ‘his list of pears cultivated in France and 
the Netherlands, &c. 175. : 

Patherus, T., Esq., his method of destroying 
insects on apple and cherry-trees, 169. - 

Paving, improvement in, by Col. Macirone, 333. 

Pea, Bishop’s early dwarf, history, description, 
and mode of treatment ef, by Mr. David 
Bishop, landscape gardener, 126. 


INDEX. 


Pea, historical notice of two varieties of, by 
Mr. T. H. Masters, F.A.S., Eden nursery, 153. 

Pea, Master’s imperial marrow, 153. 

» Dwarf knight’s marrow, 153. - 
Pea-husks, how to produce beer from, 324. 
Peas for early crops, on transplanting, by Mr. 

Daniel Judd, F.H.S., 164. ~ 

; rearing of, in pots and boxes, in hot-beds 
and hot-houses, 127. 

» method of raising early crops, 538. 

Peach and nectarine, remarks, including the 
result of some experiments on budding on 
almond stocks, by Mr. William Anderson, 
F.LS. H.S., &¢., 384, 

Peaches and nectarines, arrangements of, re- 
latively to the mildew, 225. Arrangement by 
Mr. George Lindley, C.M.H.S., 174. 225. 

Peaches and nectarines on the same tree, 471. 

Peaches, sorts grown near Copenhagen, 271. 

» Spring Grove Persian, 72.  _ 

Peach-tree, new mode of training, communi- 
eated by Mr. W. Seymour and Mr. Duff, 128. 

Pears called Silvanges, and particularly on the 
Silvange Verte (green Silvange), by M. 
Charles Francis Pierard, C.M.H.S., 163. 

Pear, new variety by T, A. Knight, Esq., 241. 

Pears, description of some new sorts, by John 

Turner, Esq., F.L.S., 75. 
> a list of, cultivated in France and the 
Netherlands, &c., 175. 
, Beurré @’ Aremberg, by Mr. Knevci, 87. 
, Beurré Delbecq, some account cf, 326. 
, Grande Bretagne Dorée, 249, 
, Colmar-Dewez, 83. 
» hotices of three new keeping: sorts of, 
by John Braddick, Esq. F.H.S. 249. 
» Merveille de la nature, query on, 472. 
» on grafting them on apples, 200. 
,» on the Beurré Spence and other new 
sorts, and on the art of keeping fruit, 
by John Braddick, Esq., &c. 144. 
» Present de Malines, notice of, 33. 
» Prince de Printems, 250. 
» Surpasse St. Germain, 249 

Pear-tree, description of one on which the 
operation of reverse grafting has been per- 
formed, by Mr. William Baltour, 71. 

Pear-trees for perry, on the cultivation of, by 
Rusticus, of Kent, 153. 

Penny, Mr. George, of the Epsom nursery, 
on the culture of orchideous plants, 469. 

Percival, Dr., of Annfield, 2¢1. 

Petersen, Mr. Jens, 203. On the gardens and 
state of gardening, &c. of Denmark, 259. 

Petrovskoyé, a Russian country seat, 203. 

Phelps, the Rev. W., on protecting wall-trees 

rom the effects of frost, 306. 

Philalethes, on pruning vines in Sept. 211. 

Philips’s Sylva Florifera (advertised), 234. 

Pheenix Park, Dublin, 12. F 

Picot de la Peyrouse’s Sketch of the Agricul- 
ture of the South of France (advertised), 232, 

Pictorial Plans (advertised), 231. 362. 

Piérard, M. Charles Francis, C.M.H.S., note on 
the pears called Silvanges, &c., 163. 

Pines, to grow with the heat of leaves, without 
dung or fire, by Mr. James Dall, 306. 

Pine-apples grown on boards placed over a dung 

pit, by Mr. John Breese, 308. 
grown under a frame with the heat 
of leaves alone, by Mr. William Gibson, 171. 

Pine-apple, large one at Shugborough, 89. One 

0 still Jarger at Stowe, 89. 
» Monstrous, 342. : 
, on the cultivation of, by Mr. Alex. 
ander Stewart, C.M.H.S., 70. 
, on the culture of, by Mr. .William 
Greenshields, 426, 
plants, on destroying the bug and 
scale on, by Mr. John Bowers, 308. 
, the different. modes of cultivating 
(advertised), 334. 
, White Providence, two very large 
speciméns, grown by Mr. Robert 
Dixon, noticed, 454. 
ine-house and pits, description of, by Charles 
Holford, Esq. F.H.S., 172. 


Vatu, I. Ne. 4. 


. 


( 
| 
i 
t 


\ 


435 


Pine-pit, description of, to be heated by steam, 
erected in Shugborough gardens, Stafford- 
shire, by Mr. Andrew Johnston, 407. 

Pine-pit, heated by flues, without tan, invented 
by Mr. A. Stewart, C.M.H.S., of Valleyfield, 
with a figure, 71. 

Pine plants in the garden of the Hort. Soc. 88. 

Pine and fir tribe, mode of grafting, by the 
Baron de Tschuay, 79. 

Pine, Scotch, to improve the timber of, 447. 

Plantes Fourragéres de la-Toscane, by M. Gai- 

- tono Savi, account of, 196. - 

Planting in Nort!, America, a work on, by 
Michaux, 205. : 

Plants, natwralization of, by J. C. Lewchs, 324. 

, to take impressions of, 225. 

Plater, Count Louis, 377 

Plimley, Mr., of the Royal Forcing Gardens, 
Kensington, 273. 

Plum, a new variety, SY. 

; description of an unknown one, 471. 

, Downton imperatrice, 68. 3 

, from New Jersey, called La Délicicuse, 
or Cooper’s large red American, 99. , 

Poa Abyssinia, the teff bread, 28. 

Poison, action of, on vegetables, 89. 

Pollen, on the influence of, in cross breeding, 
upon the coJour of the seed coats of plants. 
and the qualities of their fruits, by T. A. 
Knight, Esq. F.R.S., &c., 68. ; 

Pomme de deux ans, 94, 


_Pomology, to render more flourishing, 324, 


Pomological Society of Altenbourg, 324. 
of Guben in Lusatia, 524. 

Pomona Italiana, remarks on, 200. 

Pompions and gourds, on the cultivation of, by 
Mr. Henry Greig, 150 ° 

Populus nigra, specimen of, in Denmark, 326. 

Portugal, botanic gardens of, 52. 

Potash of Russia, how obtained, 447. 

Potato, early variety of Penzance, 342. 

, early rufiord kidney, 406. 

, on the culture of the early, as prac- 
tised in Lancashire, and on the mode of 
cooking the’potato there, by R. W., 405. 

Potato, thirty-one uses of, enumerated, 438. 

, use of the tender tops and leaves, 447. 

Potatoes first brought into notice in France by 

Voltaire, 80. _. 

, how to preserye, in a dried state, 80. 

» Mineral, in America, 200. 

Potts, Mr. John, 56. 62. 

Poultry, breeding, rearing, and fattening of, 
as practised in France, a treatise on (adver- 
tised), 99. 

Powell, David, Esq., on grafting wax, 67. 

Powis, Earl, fruit of anona squamosa ripened 
by him, 73. ; 

Practical Botany, &c. by W. Johns, M.D., 195. 

Practical essay on the vine and melon (adver- 
tised), 474. 

Practice of Mr. Robson in respect to pelargo- 
nium, hemmemerises, and heliotropes, 12. 

Prado of Madrid, 239, 

Prangos hay plant, 87. 

Preservative against insects and blight, 81. 

Prickly pear, 205. _ 

Primula sinensis, in France and the Nether- 
lands, 80.; in Lee’s nursery, &c., 220. 

Pronville, M., of Versailles, his method of pre. 
serving improved varieties of roses, 170. 

Provident Institution, &c., plan of, by James 
Cleghorn, Esq. accountant in Edinburgh, 317. 

Provincial Horticultural societies, 88. See 
Hort. Soc, 

Prussian gardening society, transactions of, re- 
viewed, 308. 

Publication of rare plants proposed to be issued 
by the Horticultural. Society, 88.; of rare 
fruit, &c, 88 

Public squares and parks of London, remarks 
on, by Mr. Lenné, 311. 

Pulawy, the principal seat of the family of 
Prince Czartoryski, in Poland, 376. 

Pyracantha, beautiful variety of, 12. 

Pyrola minor, abundant near Dalkeith, 256. 

Pyrus japonica, fruit of, by Miss Crabtree, 87, 


LL 


4.84 

Radcliff’s report on the agriculture of Flan- 
ders (advertised), 232. 

Radish, carrot, and turnip, rearing seed of, in 
the East Indies, by W. Ingledew, Esq., 174. 

Rainier Peter, Esq. Captain R.N., F.H.S., on 

the treatment of the banyan tree, 67. 
, on cultivating and cooking the brinjall, 
(aubergine, Fr.) a variety of egg plant, 307. 

Ranunculus, the Turkish, observations on forc- 
ing, by M. P. F. Bouché, commercial gar- 
dener at Berlin, 186. 

Rare British plants in the neighbourhood of 

Dalhousie Castle, 256. 
North Amer. plants, a collection of, 255. 
or new plants, which have flowered in 
the garden of the Horticultural Society at 
Chiswick, previously to 1824, 302. 

Rathfarnham Castle, Dublin, 13. 262. 

Rawson, Mrs., Stoney Royd pippin apple, 73. 

Reid, Mr. John, his syringe, 171. 231. 

» his description of an instrument for ap- 
plying tobacco fumigation to plants, 418. 
, on a new mode of glazing sashes, 307. 

Red spider, query respecting, 471. 

Reeve, Mr. James, on the culture of Nerium 
oleander splendens, 402. 

Regent’s Park, improvements in, 336, 

Reverse grafting, observations on, by Mr. 
William Balfour, 274. 

Rheum palmatum, as a substitute to the other 
species cultivated for culinary purposes, by A. 
T. Thomson, Esq. M.D. F.L.S. HLS. &¢., 396. 

Rhododendre, on the culture of the, by M. L. 
Mathieu, commercial gardener, Berlin, 187. 

Rhododendron fragrans, 341. 

Rhubarb, on forcing, in boxes in a dark room, 
&c., by Mr. James Smith, €.M.H.S., 307. 

Ribes jasminiflorum, in Sweden, 204. 

query of, 229. ; answer, 464. 

Richardot’s remarks on paragréles noticed, 319. 

Ringing fruit trees, account of the effect of, 
from a pamphiet by M. C. Bailly, of Paris, 80. 

Ringing fruit trees, substitute for, 224. 

Roberts, Mrs., her mode of manufacturing 
gooseberry wine, 93. 

Robinia jubata, a curious plant, 52. 

Robinson’s ornamental villas (advertised), 473. ; 
rural architecture, 473. 

Robson, Mr., Phoenix Park, Dublin, 12. 

Rockingham, a country seat in Roscommon, 
described, 94. 

Rollisson, Messrs., list of Cape Heaths which 
have been in flower in their nursery at Toot- 
ing, in every month of the year, 366. 

Rosa Mul. Grevillii and Noisette, 344. 

» account of a remarkable one, 467. 

Rose-leaves, tarts of, 207. = 

Rose, multiplication of, by cuttings, 198. 

» Scotch, the double varieties of, 256. 

Roses grafted on oak, 83. 

, how to preserve their improved colours, 
by M. Pronville, of Versailles, 170. 
,on forcing, by R. A. Salisbury, Esq. 
F.R.S,, 122. 
Rosenburgh, a royal seat near Copenhagen, 270. 
Ross, Mr. William, F.L.S. H.S., his life, death, 
burial, and daughters, 95. 
, his seedling Camellias, 96. 
, on fecundating the blossom of the black 
Damascus Grape, 308. 

Rural Expenditure, essay on the beneficial di- 
rection of, by R. Slaney, Esq., reviewed, 175. 

Russia, botanic gardens of, 51. 

Rusticus, of Kent, on the cultivation of pear 
trees for perry, 153. 

Sabine, J., Esq. F.R.S. &c., account of five 

new Chinese Chrysanthemums, &e. 73. 

Sabine on fig-trees, and an account of their 
cultivation in a fig-house, in the garden of 
the late Earl of Bridgewater, at Ashridge, in 
Hertfordshire, 169. Some account of the 
edible fruits of Sierra Leone, 164. 

Sageret, M.,66.; Mémoire sur les Cucurbita- 
cées, remarks on, 442, 

Salisbury’s British grasses (advertised), 474. 

Salisbury, R. A., Esq. F.R.S. E,S. H.S. &c., on 
the cultivation of vines in the open air, 43. 


INDEX. 


Salisbury on forcing roses, 122, 
Salm-Dyke, prince of, 51, . 
Sinclair’s Hortus Gramineus Woburniensis 
(advertised), 474. 
Salt as a manure, 335. ; in Denmark, 446. 
as a manure for arable lands, use of, and 
for renovating grass lawns, &c., by William 
Collyns, Esq., 401. 
Salt, testimonies in favour of (advertised), 97. 
, influence of, on vegetation in France, 323. 
Saul, Mr. M., of Lancaster, his transplanting 
instrument, 267. 
> plan for preventing the drip in hot- 
houses, 431. 
' , his account of an experiment which serves 
to show that hothouse flues may draw very 
well, without terminating in an upright shaft 
or chimney, 152. 


| Samouelle’s Entomologist’s Useful Companion 


(advertised), 361. 

Saunders, Mr. B., nurseryman, Jersey, 87. __ 

» Mr. H., on the Kitley Shaddock, 265, 

Savi, M. Gaitano, Plantes fourragéres de la 
Toscane, account of, 196. : 

‘Scotch farming in Kent, 88. 7 

Sea or shore cale, Crambe maritima, on the cul. ~ 
ture and use of, by Mr. Brash, 189. 

Sebright’s art of improving the breeds of do- 

mestic animals (advertised), 233. 
observations on breaking and ma- 
naging hawks(advertised),233.474. 

, on breeding domestic animals, 474. 

Seeds and plants, their packing and expedition 
from foreign countries, according to a pam- 
phlet prepared by Mr. Lindley, 335. 

Seeds, on packing and preserving, 210. 

Sennebier’s plan for rendering trees _perma- 
nently fruitful, 88. : 

Seton, Alexander, Esq. F.H.S., his mode of 
numbering plants, remarks on, 437 

Seymour, Mr. William, and Mr. Duff, new 
mode of training the peach tree communi- 
cated by them, 1 

Shaddock, the Kitley, some account of, by Mr. 
H. Saunders, 265. 

Shaw, Sir Robert, Bart., 263. 

Sheep, a remarkable disease in, 442, 

of Thibet, 79. 

Shelton Abbey, Co. Wicklow, described, 94. ~_ 

Shennan, Mr. W. J., on the treatment of Cac- 
tus speciosus, speciosissimus, and other or. 
namental succulent plants, 398. ; 

Shugborough, large pine apple cut there, 89. 

Sibbald, Sir R.,. discovery of Rosa ciphiana, 256. 

Silk worms and cochineal insects in Spain, 204, 

in France, 199. 

, culture of, in Ireland,.95. 

, culture of, in Sweden, 83. 

; remarks on the cultivation of, by 
John Murray, Esq., F.S.A. LS. 
HLS. &c., reviewed, 317. 

Sims, John, M.D., F.R.S.L., editor of the Bo- 
tanical Magazine, 47. 60. 

Simson, Mr. J., on the best mode of washing 
water-cresses, 29, 2 

Sinclair, Mr. George, F.U.S. H.S., his Hortus 
Gramineus Woburniensis (advertised), 98. 

Sinclair, Mr. George, F.L.S. H.S., on cultivat- 
ing a collection of grasses in pleasure grounds, 
26. 112, 

Sinclair and Holditch, their essay on weeds 
(advertised), 98. 

Sion House, notice respecting, 349. . 

Slaney, Robert, Esq. his essay on the beneficial 
direction of rural expenditure reviewed, 175. 
(advertised) 233. : 

Smith, Mr. James, C.M.H.S., on forcing onions 

to produce bulbs in clusters 307. 
Mr. James, C.M.H.S., on forcing rhu- 
barb in boxes in a.dark room, &c., -307. 

Smith, Sir James Edward, F.R.S., Pres. L.S., 
&c., 26.; his English Flora (advertised), 234. 

Smith, Mr., C.M.H.S., on charcoal dust, 293. 

Snowdrop, abundance of, at Arniston, 256. 

Sondermarken, a royal park, Copenhagen, 270. 

Sorgenfrie, a royal seat near Copenhagen, 271. 


, 


| Soulange-Bodin, Chevalier Etienne, of, Fro- 


INDEX. 


mont, near Paris, 49, 198.; son Catalogue 
des Végétaux de Pleine Terre, account of, 
196. ; son Récit d@’une Excursion Horticultu- 
rale faite a Londres, danle mois d’ Avril 
1824, reviewed, 189. 

Sowerby, Mr. James, F.L.S. &c., 59. 

Spain, botanic gardens of, 49. 

, botany and gardening of, by Professor 
. Don Mariano La Gasca, 935. 

Spanish chestnut, tan from the bark of, 83. 

Sparrows, new trap for, 454. 

Spence, William, Esq. F.L.S., and William 
Kirby, Esq. M.A. FBS. & 1.S., their intro- 
duction to entomology (advertised), 99. ;- re- 
Taarks on, 192. 

Spinage, New Zealand, 200. 

Sprengel Curtio, his Systema Vegetabilium 
reviewed, 155. 

Spring Grove, 36. 

Stackpole, village of, cottages and gardens, 273. - 

Statistics of agriculture, Voght’s view of, 441. 

Steam, essay on heating hot-houses by, of Mr. 
W. Bailey, 203. 

Stems of iruit trees, upon the beneficial effects 
of protecting from frost in early spring, by 
Thomas Andw. Knight, Esq. F.R.S, &c,, 424. 

Steppes, burning of, in Siberia, 447. 

Stevenson, William, Esq., on the benefits to be 
derived by the country labourer from a 
garden, and the means of teaching him how 
to acquire those benefits, 101. 

Stewart’s Farmer’s, &c. Companion, 432. 
Stewart, Mr. Alexander, C.M.H.S., his mode of 
culture of the pine-apple, 70. 
his description of a green-house in the 

garden of Sir Robert Preston, Bart. 
at Valleyfield, in Perthshire, 423. 

Stewart, his newly-invented espalier rail, 340. 

Stipe noxa, a disease in sheep, remarks on, 442, 

Stock, Mr. Daniel, his query respecting orchi- 
dez, 358.; answered, 465. 

Stocks, ten-week, German varieties of, 337. 

Stoffels, Mr. Louis, of Malines, 34. 251. 

Stowe, large pine-apple cut there, 89, 

Strawberries, Grove End scarlet, 72. 

method of cultivating on smalj 
ridges, by J. Williams, Esq. of Pitmaston, 308. 

Strawberry, Alpine, query respecting, 471. 

z Bishop’s orange, early globe cinna- 
mon (advertised), 230.; Wilmot’s superb 
(advertised), 230. 

Strawberry, Dalmatian, 82. 

different varieties of, cultivated in 
the garden of the Horticultural Society of 
London, by Mr. James Barnet, 420. 
Strawberry, ‘‘ Nairn’s scarlet,” 72. 
» on the cultivation of, by T. A. 
Knight, Esq. F.R.S. &c., 304 
, the melon, 338. Diack’s, No. 1. | 
and No. 2., 338. 
» Wilmot’s black imperial, 72. 
superb, on the cultiva- 
tion of, by Mr. Isaac Oldacre, F.H.S., 278. 
Strawberry plants, for early forcing, on the pre- 
aration of, by Thomas Andrew Knight, 
Esq. F.R.S. &c. Pres. H.S., 163. _ 

Street, Mr., C.M.H.S. his mode of growing 
plants in live moss, noticed, 343. 

Strokestown Fluse, Co. Roscommon, 94. 

Substitutes for hemp in India, 85. 

Sugar, from the field beet, art of obtaining, 
remarks on, 319. 

Sun-flower, uses of, in Portugal, 322. 

Swain’s Gramina Pascua (advertised), 474. 

Swayne, the Rev.G., on protecting the branches 

of fig-trees during winter, 306. 
, the Rev. G., on the management of 
hot-house flues, 430. 

Sweden, botanic gardens of, 52. 

Sweet, Mr. Robert, F.L.S. culture of hot-house 
bulbous-rooted plants, 51. 47, 48. 61. ; 
Sweet’s Botanical Cultivator (advertised), 362. 
British Flower-Garden (advertised),231. 

Warblers, some account of, 
193. ; (advertised) 231. 


485 


Sweet’s Hortus Britannicus; announced, 99. ; 
(advertised) 362. ; remarks on, 433. 

Swine, feeding of, in Mexico, 447. 

Sylvester, ‘Mr., his mode of planting the con- 
servatory at the Grange, 111. 


' Syringe, new, by Mr. John Reid, 171. 


Systematic Botany, review of Sprengel’s work 
on, 155. 

Systems and methods in natural history, re- 

marks on, 461. 
of plants, remarks on, 435. 

Tallies, forms of, 258; moulds for, by Mr. 
Archibald, 258. 

Tan from the bark of Spanish chestnut, 83. 

Tankerville, Earl of, 44. 

FAR rock of plants, on shorfening the, by Mr. 

. Masseli, of Militsch, 188. 

Tartarian buck-wheat, 325 

Taxidermy; or, the art of preparing objects 
of natural history, &c. (advertised) 99. 

Taylor’s Phil, Mag., quotation from, 461. 

Tea, culture of, in Brazil, 332. 

Teall’s treatise on the foot-rot in sheep (ud- 
vertised), 233. 

Ten-week stocks, Mr. Lee’s varieties of, 337. 

Tereneure, the seat of F. Bourne, Esc., 262. 

Thermometer for bark beds, 312. 

Thompson, Mr. J. junior, of Welbeck gardens, 
on the culture of orchideous plants, 466. 

Thompson, John, Esq., on the Morinards pop- 
lar, 16; remarks on the effect of the cedar 
of Lebanon in landscape, 118.; on the im- 
provement of Hyde Park and Kensington 
Gardens, 280. 

Thomson, Anthony Todd, Esq. M.D. F.L.S., 
&c. on a hypothesis concerning green vege- 
table manure, 20. ; hints on the superiority 
of the rheum palmatum to the other species 
cultivated for culinary purposes, 396.; Lec- 
tures on the Elements of ELotany (adver- 
tised), 99. 234. : 

Thouin, Professor Andrew, F.M. H.S. &c., 
biography of, 226.; on the Calville Rouge de 
Micaud apple, 429. 

Thunder and hail protecters, remarks on, 518. ; 
in Savoy, 325. 

Thunder and hail, society for mutual assurance 
against, in France, 80. 

Ticketing plants, on the cheapest aud most dur- 
able mode of, by Mr. Dern of Scarbriik, 187. 

Ticketing plants, observations on Mr. Dern’s 
mode of, by Mr. Otto, inspector uf the botanic 
garden of Berlin, 187 

Tigridia pavonia, directions for managing, by 
Mr. John Damper Parks, 306. 

Timber, to preserve from the dry rot, 336. 

Timothy grass, culture of, in Bavaria, 324. 

Tobacco fumigation, description of an instru- 
ment for, by Mr. John Reid, 418. 

Tollaght, near Dublin, the country seat of the 
archbishops of that city, 263. 


| Tomato, methods of preparing the fruit, 553. 


tr 


ae 


Torch-thistle, on the culture ofthe, by W.P. 
Bouché, 186. 

Town gardens, queries respecting, 472. 

Traité de la Pommede Terre, remarks on, 
438. 

Traité de l’Emploi de la Vapeur pour Ics Serres 
Chaudes, by Mr. William Bailey, account of, 
197. 

Transactions of the London Horticultural So- 
ciety. See Horticultural Society of London. 

Transactions of the Prussian Gardening Society, 
reviewed, 308. Parts III. and IV., 321. 

Transplantation of trees in Italy, 82. 

Transplanting instrument of Mr. M. Saul, 267.; 
of the French, 268. 

Tredegar prize-show, 210. 

Tredgold, Thomas, Esq. on heat, moisture, and 
evaporation, 37. 

Trees and shrubs, the introduction into Ireland 
of new species by Mr. Mackay, 458. 

Trellis, Long’s movable, described, 454, ; (ad- 
vertised) 473. 

Trianon Nursery, near Rouen, 445, 


Geraniacez, Cistinee, and Botanical 
Cultivator, (advertised) 98, 362. i 


Trinity College Garden, Dubtin, !1. 


456 


Trotter, Alexander, Esq., his method of book- 
keeping, 192. 

Truffles, on the culture of, 320. 

Tschudy, the Baron de, his mode of grafting 
the pine and fir tribe, &c., 79. 

Talip beds, on forming, by Mr. Saul, 451. 

principal, in the neighbourhood of 
London, 347.; Mr. Lawrence’s, 347. ; Lan- 
caster tulip show, 347. ; Mr. Groom’s, at Wal- 
worth, 349, 351. 

Turner, John, Esq., i. L.S., his description of 
some new sorts of pear, 73. 

Turnip, carrot, and radish, the method of rear- 
ing seed of, in the East Indies, by William In- 
gledew, Esq., 174. ; 

Turnip, early white stone, 210.. Yellow, 210. 

» on the French or Teltow variety, by 

Mr. John Hunneman, 307. 

Twamley’s Essays on the Management of the 
Dairy (advertised), 282. 

Ulmus parvifolia, 12. 

Underwood, Mr. W., Dublin, 11. 

Unripe Melons, how to make the most of, 80. 

Van Dieman’s. Land, horticulture of, 207.; 
agriculture, 209. 

Vandes, Comte de, his botanic garden, 349. 

Vaughan, Sir Robert, bart., M.P., F.H.S., 
woollen netting for fruit trees, by, 341. 

Vegetable glue of South America, 332. 

: life, power of, in Italy, 325. 

Ventilator for hothouses, description of a self- 
acting, byJohn Williams, Esq. C.M.H.S., 419. ; 
by Mr. Mugliston, 173. 

Verge-cutter, on a new, &c., by Mr. Charles 
M‘Intosh, and also on anew mode of pre- 
serving cauliflowers, 139. 

Verhandlungen des Vereins, &c., Transactions 
of the Prussian Gard. Soc. reviewed, 186. 

Verus on field-gardening, and on the gardens 
of farm servants in Scotland, 259. 

Villa Nuoya, belonging to the family of Po- 
tocki, near Warsaw, 376. 

Vinery, circular one of General Durham, and 

of Mr. Fletcher, 254. 

» plan for, 254. 

, description of a, and mode of training 
practised in it, by Mr. William Beattie, 
€.M.HLS., 172. 

Vines, a peculiarity in the treatment of, vy Mr. 
Archibald, at Dalhousie Castie, 253. ; at Col- 
zean Castle, 254. 

Vines, cultivation of, in the open air, 43. 

, on a Devonshire practice in planting, &c. 
by William Collyns, Esq., 401. 

>» on a new mode of grafting, 464. 

> ON pruning in Sept., by Philalethes, 211. 

Vineyards, in Italy, 82. 

Voght’s Statistics of Agriculture, 441. 

Volstandige Auleitung zur Mastung der Thiere, 
&c., by Char Leuchs, 196. 

W.B., query of, and answer, 359. 

W.3.B., query of, as to insects, 359. ; answ. 464. 

W. S., query of, 357: answer, 358. 

Wade, Dr., botanical professor, Dublin, 11. 

Walker, Mr. James, gardener at Melville 


Castle, his culture of Lathraea squamaria, 256. | 
Wall-fruit trees, qu. respecting insects on, 470. | 


Wall trees, on, the protection of the blossoms of, 
by T. A. Knight, Esq. F.R.S. &c., 173. 

Wail trees, to preserve, from the effects of frost, 
by the Rev. W. Phelps, 306. 


| 


INDEX. 


Walls of compressed earth, 355. 

Walsh, the Pev. Robert, LL.D. and C.M.H.S. 
on the botany of the neighbourhood of Con- 
stantinople, 293. 

Waltham House, in Massachusetts, 205. 

Walworth Florists’ Garden, 349. 

Waring, R., Esq.; his Cray pippin-apple, 73. 

Wastes and waters of France, repeopling of, 79. 

Water-cress, culture of, in Britain and on the 

Continent, 200. 
> on the cultivation of the, and the 
English and- American cranberry, at Bretton 
Hall, by Mr. Christie Duff, 151. 4 

Water-cresses, on the best mode of washing, 29. 

Water, remarks on the qualities of, for watering 
vegetables, 222. 

Watering vegetables in dry seasons, on the use 
and abuse of, and on the advantages of shade 
to culinary crops in times of great drought, 
by Mr. George Fulton, 399. 

Walon Dendrologia Britannica (advertised), 
4 


| Wax-tree, on the cultivation of, in England, by 


W. Hamilton, Esq. M.D., 403. 

Wedgewood, John, Hsq., on blanching and 
forcing Buda-kale, 307. 

Weeds, Holditch and Sinclair’s Essay on (adver= 
tised), 98. 

Weevil among corn, to destroy, 444, 

Werthmeister, Mr. R., his mode of ringing 
fruit-trees, 187. 

Wheat, different sorts of, 211. 

5 Sandomir, or Polish variety of, 447. 
| Whin, double-flowering, 342. 
Wild mustard, how destroyed m Franconia, 


446. 

Williams, John, Esq., C.M.H.S., his description 
of a self-acting ventilator for hot-houses, 419. 

Williams, John, Esq., C.M.H.S., on cultivating 
strawberries on small ridges, &c., 308. - 

Williams, John, Esq., C.M.H.S., on the culti- 
vation of the yellow rose, 66. 

Wilkie, Mr., gardener, Dublin, 13. 

> Mr. W., his work on woods, &c., 87. 

Willis, Mr. Richard, his account of peaches and 
nectarines on the same tree, &c., 471. 

Wilmot, Mr. John, F.H.S. Isleworth, his mode 
of cultivating the Cyclamen persicum, 386. 

Wilmot, Mr., of Lewisham nursery, his orna- 
mental pots, 336. ri 

Woad, Isatis tinctoria, cultivation of, 82. 

Wodzicki, Count, 375. 

Woking nursery, Mr. Donald, 269. 

Wood, proposed method of charring, 446. 

Woodlands; or, a Treatise on Planting, by 
William Cobbet, Esq., account of, 195, 

Worms and slugs, how destroyed, by Mr. 
M‘Dougal, 89. 

Worms in pots, to destroy, by Sir C. M. L. 
Monck, Bart., 307. 

Xanthochymus pictorius, 343. 

Yarnall, Mr. R. Keyte, life and death of, 228. 

Yeast, as manure, 224. 

Yellow rose, on its cultivation at Cobham 
Hall, 66. ; by John Williams, Esq. C.M.H.S. 
66. ; by J. C. Palmer, Esq. F.H.S., 66. — 

Young, Mr. nurseryman, Epsom, 34. 

Yucca gloriosa, fine specimens of, 451.; in 
Ireland, 458. 

Yvart, a distinguished French agriculturist, 402. 

Zoological Society, prospectus tor, 335. 


3 


\END OF THE FIRST VOLUME. 


LoNbDON: 


Printed by A. & R. Spottiswoode, 
New-Street-Square. 


ITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES 


will 


3 9088 01 


