The  Gertrude  Bobbitt  Circle 

COOK  BOOK 


Central  Methodist  Church 
Spencer,  N.  C. 


Recipes  of  the  Southland 
Yesterday  and  Today 


SECOND  EDITION 
NINETEEN  HUNDRED  FORTY  EIGHT 


NORTH  CAROLINA  FINISHING  COMPANY 

PROCESSORS  OF  COTTON,  SYNTHETIC  &  BLENDED  FABRICS 
SALISBURY;  X.C. 


The  Gertrude  Bobbitt  Circle 

COOK  BOOK 


Central  Methodist  Church 
Spencer,  /V.  C. 


Recipes  of  the  Southland 
Yesterday  and  Today 


NINETEEN  HUNDRED  FORTY  LIGHT 


DEDICATION 

We  most  respectfully  dedicate  this  Cook  Book  to  the 
mothers  of  those  who  contributed  a  recipe  for  our  Book. 
Fondly  do  we  recall  our  first  cooking  lessons  when  our 
Mothers  with  loving  pride  encouraged  our  childish  inter- 
est and  helped  our  clumsy  little  hands  to  shape  our  first 
biscuit  and  bake  our  first  little  pie.  It  was  through  their 
love  and  patience  that  we  were  taught  the  fundamentals  of 
cooking. 

GERTRUDE  BOBBITT  CIRCLE 
Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr.,  Chairman 


F ORE  W O  R  I  > 

The  recipes  contained  in  this  book  have  been  tried  and 
proved.  Some  have  been  passed  from  generation  to  gen- 
eration and  in  the  belief  that  they  will  meet  the  most  ex- 
acting tastes,  it  is  with  confidence  that  the  entire  collection 
is  passed  to  you. 

We  are  indeed  grateful  to  our  friends  who  have  so 
graciously  contributed  choice  recipes;  to  our  business 
friends  who  have  so  generously  helped  by  giving  advertise- 
ments, and  to  the  Wesleyan  Service  Guild,  particularly  Miss 
Jean  Misenheimer,  Chairman,  and  her  able  assistants,  Mrs. 
J.  H.  Jacobs  and  Mrs.  Jack  N.  Vail,  who  so  tirelessly  help- 
ed us  compile  the  contents  of  this  book. 

GERTRUDE  BOBBITT  CIRCLE 
Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr.,  Chairman 
Mrs.  Curry  Krider,  Local  Chairman 
Mrs.  E.  P.  Hughes,  Recipe  Chairman 


INDEX 

Page 
BEVERAGES    ... 5 

BREADS,  ETC 7 

CAKES  AND  COOKIES    15 

FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS 51 

CANDY  .... 54 

CHEESE  AND  EGGS  „ _....    57 

DESSERTS 59 

JAMS,  PICKLES,  RELISHES,  ETC.  73 

MEATS, 81 

PIES  AND  PASTRIES 94 

SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES  104 

SAUCES  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS  116 

VEGETABLES  _ .._ 120 


BEVERAGES 

Drink !  for  you  know  not  whence  you  came,  nor  why 
Drink!  for  you  know  not  why  you  go,  nor  where. 


CITRIC    ACID   PUNCH 

Pour  1  quart  boiling  water  over  grated  rind  of  2  oranges  and 
2  ozs.  citric  acid,  add  6  cups  sugar  and  strain  when  cold.  Extract 
the  juice  from  6  oranges  and  add  with  1  qt.  cold  water  and  1  small 
can  of  pineapple  juice  to  the  above  mixture.  Let  stand  in  refrigera- 
tor till  ready  to  serve  (at  least  24  hours)  and  then  add  equal  amount 
of  water.     Ginger  ale  may  be  added  when  ready  to  serve  if  desired. 

Mn.  Earl  Clapp 


RUSSIAN  TEA  I 


1  tsp  cloves  2y2  tablespoons  black  tea 

1  in.  Cinnamon  bark  Juice  of  3  oranges  and  iy2  lemons 

3  qts  water  1  cup  sugar 

Tie  spices  in  bag,  put  into  water,  let  come  to  a  boil.     Let  stand 
5  minutes,  take  out  bag,  add  juice. 

Mrs.  Hill  Trexler 


RUSSIAN  TEA  II 

10  teaspoons  tea  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

3  cups  sugar  y2  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

Juice  of  8  lemons  Grated  rinds  of  1  lemon  and  1 

Juice  of  3  oranges  orange 

Heat  sugar,  rinds,  spices  in  2  quarts  of  water.  Bring  to  a  boil. 
Steep  tea  in  2  quarts  of  boiling  water.  Blend  together  over  slow 
fire  for  a  few  minutes.     Keep  cool  in  refrigerator. 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 


FRUIT  PUNCH 

Ingredients  Serves   8  Serves  60 

Pour    1    cup    boiling    Pour  8   cups   boiling 
Tea  Infusion  water  over  2  tsp  tea    water  over  5  tsp  tea 

Sugar  1    cup  2  quarts 

Lemon  Juice  x/2  cup  1  quart 

Orange  Juice  y2  cup  1  quart 

Grape  Juice  y2  cup  1  quart 

Grated  Pineapple  y2  cup  1  quart 

Iced  water  5  cups  2y2    gallons 

Dissolve  sugar  in  hot  tea.  Cool.  Combine  all  ingredients. 
Serve  over  large  block  of  ice  in  punch  bowl  or  over  ice  cubes  in  indi- 
vidual servings. 

Mrs.   Mildred  Seaber 
5 


HONOLULU  TEA 

To  2  quarts  of  strong  cold  tea  add  juice  of  6  lemons,  2  cups 
crushed  pineapple  including'  syrup,  1  cup  maraschino  cherries  with 
syrup  and  a  syrup  made  by  boiling  together  2  cups  sugar  and  1  cup 
of  water  for  5  minutes.  Chill  and  serve  with  cracked  ice.  Serves 
20  persons. 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 


PUNCH 

2y2  dozen  lemons  1   pint  cherry  juice    (Cheerwine) 

y2  dozen  bottles  ginger  ale  Double  handful  mint  leaves 

1  large  can  grated  pineapple 

Soak  the  mint  leaves  in  water  and  sugar.  Pour  water  over 
pineapple  to  get  out  all  juice  and  strain.  Sweeten  to  tase.  This 
serves  about  50  people. 

Mrs.  Henry  Peterson 


BERRY  ACID 

6  lbs.  berries   (blackberries  or         2y2  ozs.  tartaric  acid 
strawberries)  2  quarts  cold  water 

Mash  berries,  add  acid  and  water.  Let  stand  for  48  hours, 
strain  and  to  every  pint  of  juice,  add  1*4  pounds  of  sugar.  Stir 
until  sugar  is  dissolved,  ibottle  and  keep  in  a  dark  place.  Do  not 
seal,  just  use  a  cork  in  the  bottle. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Pennington 
Submitted  by  Mrs.  James  Cooper,  her  daughter 


BREADS 

'  One  little  song  we  sing 

To  bride  but  newly  wed 

Just  make  the  best  of  everything 

Especially  of  bread". 


BUTTER  MILK  ROLLS 


2x/2  cup  flour  Y2  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoon  sugar  3  tablespoon  lard 
1  eake  yeast                                        1  cup  buttermilk 

Crumble  yeast  in  milk,  mix  as  for  biscuit,  knead  for  five  minutes. 
Roll  and  cut.  Let  stand  until  double  in  bulk  or  about  1%  hours. 
Make  out  as  pocket  book  rolls.    Bake  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  7.  Scruggs 


ICE  BOX  ROLLS 

x/2  lb.  lard  1  qt.  sweet  milk 

2  tablespoon  sugar 

Let  this  come  to  a  boil,  then  cool  to  a  luke  warm.  Dissolve  1  cake 
of  yeast  into  this  mixture.  Beat  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  medium 
paste.  Beat  all  lumps  out  and  let  rise  until  bubbles  appear  on  top  or 
until  doubled  in  size.  Add  1  large  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder  and  enough  flour  to  make  dough.  Do  this  with  your 
hands.  Have  a  bowl  greased  and  put  dough  in  it.  Cover  with  a  cloth 
wrung  out  of  water.  Let  stand  in  ice  box  before  making  rolls.  Wet 
cloth  each  time  befoi'e  putting  back  in  ice  box. 

Mrs.  W.  M..  Eagle 


HOT  ROLLS 


1  Fleischman's   yeast   cake   dis-     1  tablespoon  salt 
solved  in  2  cups  luke  warm  1  level  tablespoon  sugar 

water  1  level  cup  shortening 

Sift  together:  1  teaspoon  sugar 

6  rounding  cups  all-purpose  flour 

Mix  thoroughly  with  dissolved  yeast.  Cover  and  let  stand  for  at 
least  1  hour  (2  hrs.  are  better).  Make  out  as  many  rolls  as  needed. 
Lightly  grease  remainder  of  dough  and  place  in  refrigerator.  "When 
refrigerated  dough  is  to  be  used — remove  from  refrigerator  for  2  hrs. 
before  making  into  rolls.  Let  rise  3  hrs.  in  a  warm  place.  Baking: 
Heat  oven  to  400  degrees,  place  rolls  in  oven,  reduce  heat  to  350  de- 
grees. Bake  until  brown  and  slightly  separated  from  each  other. 
About  25  minutes.     This  quantity  make  24  large  rolls. 

Mrs.  /.  R.  Prettyman 
Submitted  by  her  daughter,  Mrs.  T.  P.  Fowler 


HOE  CAKE 

Moisten  salted  corn  meal  with  scalding  water  or  milk.  Allow  it 
to  stand  for  an  hour.  Put  two  or  three  teaspoons  of  this  on  hot  greas- 
ed griddle.  Smooth  it  out  to  make  cakes  one-half  inch  thick  and  let 
it  cook.  When  one  side  is  done  turn  over  and  brown  the  other.  Serve 
very  hot  for  breakfast.     This  dish  goes  well  with  sausage. 

Mrs.  James  Cooper 


CRACKLING  BREAD 

1  cup  crackings   (diced)  V2  tsp.  soda 

IV2  cups  corn  meal  %  tsp.  salt 

%  cup  wheat  flour  1  cup  sour  milk 

Cracklings  are  the  pieces  of  meat  remaining  after  the  lard  has 
been  rendered  from  the  pork.  Mix  and  sift  together  the  dry  ingredi- 
ents. Add  the  milk,  stir  in  the  cracklings.  Form  into  oblong  cakes 
and  place  in  greased  baking  pan.  Bake  in  hot  oven  (400  degrees) 
for  30  minutes.     This  can  also  be  baked  in  bread  pan  and  sliced. 

Mrs.  James  Cooper 


ICE  BOX  ROLLS 
5  tablespoons  lard  Dissolve  1  yeast  cake  in  V2  cup 

2  tablespoons  sugar  water 

V2  cup  boiling  water  1  egg 

V2  teaspoon  salt  3  cups  flour 

Mix  lard  and  sugar,  add  V2  cup  boiling  water.  Cool.  Then  add 
V2  cuP  water  in  which  yeast  cake  has  been  added,  and  well  beaten  egg. 
To  this  mixture  add  flour  gradually  beating  well.  You  may  keep  in 
refrigerator  and  use  as  needed.  Will  keep  several  days.  Make  into 
rolls,  let  rise  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Lewis  Hartline 


REFRIGERATOR  ROLLS 

Sift  together  the  following: 
1  quart  flour  2  teaspoons  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  Vfc  teaspoon  soda 

Mix  x/i  cup  shortening  to  above.  Scald  (do  not  boil)  V2  pint  sweet 
milk.  Add  1  heaping  tablespoon  sugar  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Cream  one  medium-sized  Irish  potato  and  add  to  above  mixture,  mix- 
ing thoroughly  until  potato  is  dissolved  in  milk.  Dissolve  one  cake 
yeast  in  1  cup  luke-warm  water  and  add  to  liquid  mixture.  Make 
dough  about  the  same  consistency  as  for  biscuits  and  place  in  greased 
bowl  and  let  rise  until  about  double  the  original  size,  then  press  down 
firmly  and  place  in  refrigerator  until  ready  to  use.  (if  the  dough 
rises  up  several  times  just  press  down).  Be  sure  the  milk  mixture 
is  just  luke-warm  when  the  yeast  is  added.  When  dough  is  ready 
to  make  rolls,  cut  off  the  amount  you  desire  and  roll  about  the  same 
thickness  as  for  biscuits,  spread  melted  butter  thinly  over  the  dough 
and  then  cut  with  biscuit  cutter  and  fold  together  and  lightly  butter 
top  of  them.  When  placing  in  pan  do  not  let  them  touch  each  other. 
Leave  out  in  room  temperature  about  two  hrs.  before  baking. 

Mrs.  Joe  Shulenberger 
8 


"COLORED  BESSIE"  COMPANY  BISCUIT 

1  quart  flour  1  level  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Vi  teaspoon  soda  1  teaspoon  salt 

IV2  cups  buttermilk  2  tablespoons  lard 

Mix  all  dry  ingredients  and  sift  them  together.  Work  in  the  but- 
termilk. Knead  ten  minutes.  Roll  Vi  inch  thick.  Cut  with  biscuit 
cutter  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  McCall 


DROP  BISCUIT 


Two  cups  flour,  four  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  table- 
spoons lard,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  sweet  milk  enough  to  make  a  bat- 
ter which  will  drop  from  spoon  without  spreading.  Drop  by  spoon- 
fuls on  greased  tins  two  inches  apart.  Brush  over  with  milk  and  bake 
in  hot  oven  ten  minutes. 

Mrs.   W.   C.   Slate 


BEST  BREAD 


2  tablespoon  sugar  1  tablespoon  salt 

2   tablespoon   shortening  1%  cups  scalded  milk 

1  cake  yeast  14  cup  lukewarm  water 

6  cups  flour   (or  enough   for  not 

too  stiff  dough) 

Combine  sugar,  shortening,  salt  and  milk  in  large  bowl.  Cool 
to  lukewarm.  Add  dissolved  yeast  then  the  flour.  Knead  eight  to 
ten  minutes.  Place  in  greased  bowl,  cover  carefully  and  let  rise  in 
warm  place  (80  deg.)  for  two  hours.  Then  punch  down.  Let  rise 
again  to  double  bulk.  Divide  into  two  parts,  cover  each,  and  let 
rise  15  minutes.  Mould  into  two  loaves.  Place  in  greased  pans, 
grease  top,  cover  and  let  rise  in  warm  place  until  double  in  bulk  or 
more  until  a  touch  leaves  a  dent.  Bake  in  hot  oven  10  minutes:  re- 
duce heat  and  bake  30  minutes  more,  until  it  does  not  "sing". 

Mrs.  E.  D.  McCall 


SPOON  BREAD 

2  cups  sifted  corn  meal  2  cups  boiling  water 

1  cup  sweet  milk  3  tablespoon  butter 

2  teaspoon  salt  3  eggs 

Pour  meal  into  boiling  water  and  cook  one  minute,  stirring  to 
keep  free  from  lumps.  Add  butter,  salt  and  sweet  milk,  then  the 
beaten  eg^  yolks.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites,  pour  into  well 
greased  baking  dish  and  cook  in  moderate  over  30  minute-.  Serve 
at  once.     Do  not  use  soda  or  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  McCall 


MAMMY'S  SPOON  BREAD 
Slowly  pour  2  cups  corn  meal  into  2  cups  boiling  water,  and  1 
teaspoon   salt,   3  tablespoon  butter,   iy2   cups  sweet   milk   and   cook 


slowly  over  low  heat,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  is  free  of 
lumps.  Beat  in  3  beaten  egg  yolks  and  3  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour 
into  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven, 
350  deg.     Serve  in  which  baked. 

Mrs.  Osborne  T.  Snow 


CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS 


4  tablespoon   shortening  2  tablespoon  sugar 

1  egg  \y±  cups  milk 

1  cup  flour  1  cup  corn  meal 

4  teaspoon  baking  powder  y2  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar  together  until  light.  Add  well 
beaten  esrrs,  then  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  sifted  together  and 
mixed  with  corn  meal.  Add  milk  gradually.  Mix  well  together  and 
bakp  in  well  greased  muffin  pans  about  25  minutes. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Goodnight 


BATTER  BREAD 


1  egg  ll/2  cups  buttermilk 

3  cups  flour  iy2  tablespoon  baking  powder 

y2  teaspoon  soda  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  sugar  2  tablespoon   shortening 

Beat  egg  well,  add  x/2  cup  buttermilk,  1  cup  flour  with  baking 
powder,  sod?,  salt  and  and  sugar.  Beat  f-is  well.  Then  add  1  cup 
buttermilk,  have  shortening  melted  and  add  2  cups  flour  and  beat 
well.  Grease  9  inch  cake  pan,  then  melt  shortening  in  same  pan. 
After  pouring  .shortening  in  batter,  let  pan  get  real  hot  before  pour- 
ing batter  in.  Cook  at  400  until  done.  This  is  enough  for  a  family 
of  four  or  five,   (original). 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 


POPOVERS 


2  eggs  well  beaten  V2  cup  milk 

V±  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  melted  butter 

1  cup  flour  V2  cup  water 

Combine  eggs,  salt,  and  sifted  flour.  Add  water  slowly  and  beat 
mixture  vigorously  using  egg  beater.  Add  milk  and  continue  beat- 
ing until  batter  is  smooth  and  bubbly.  Add  butter  or  margarine. 
Pour  batter  into  deep,  well  greased  muffin  pans.  Bake  in  hot  oven 
(400  dee,)  40  to  60  minutes. 

Mrs.  F.  S.  Cain 


BRAN  MUFFINS 


1  cup  corn  meal  y2  teaspoon  salt 

y2  cup  flour  %  teaspoon  soda 

y2  cup  all-bran  2  tablespoon  bacon  gravy 

1  egg  1  cup  buttermilk 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  bake  20  minutes  in  over   (400 
deg.).  Makes  9  muffins. 

Mrs.  F.  C.  Stoudemire 
10 


"BATTERY"  PAN  CAKES 

1  cup  flour  Vz  CUP  corn  meal 

i/2  tablespoon  salt  1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  egg  iy±  cups  milk 

3  tablespoon  Wesson  Oil  3  level  teaspoons  Baking  Powder. 

Mix  ingredients  exactly  in  order  as  set  down.     Mix  lightly — DO 

NOT   BEAT.     Add   baking   powder  last.     Bake    on    lightly   greased 


griddle. 


Mrs.   Mildred  Seaber 


WAFFLES 


1  cup  flour  1  egg 

2  teaspoon  baking  powder  %  teaspoon  salt 
4  tablespoon  melted  butter  %  cup  milk 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Separate  eggs.  Add  unbeaten 
yolks  to  flour  mixture,  keep  adding  milk  to  make  thin  batter.  Add 
melted  butter  and  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.     (For  2  people). 

Miss  Julia  Graves 

\s  

WAFFLES 

3  or  4  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 
1  tablespoon  sugar  1  pt.  sweet  milk 

2!/2  cups  flour  6  teaspoon  baking  powder 

8  large  tablespoon  Wesson  Oil 

Beat  egg  yolks,  add  sugar  and  salt,  then  part  of  milk.  Sift  in 
flour,  add  part  of  Wesson  oil,  then  rest  of  milk,  then  rest  of  oil,  then 
baking  powder  and  lastly  the  egg  whites,  well  beaten.  When  butter 
will  turn  golden  brown,  the  waffle  iron  is  just  right.  Start  cooking 
and  continue  to  cook  without  extra  beating. 

Mrs.  Mildred  Seaber 


SOUR  MILK  WAFFLES 


2  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  sugar  2  cups  thick  sour  milk 

1  teaspoon  soda  y2  cup  Wesson  oil 

2  cups  flour 

To  well  beaten  egg  yolks,  add  sugar  and  salt,  stir  soda  into  sour 
milk,  then  add  to  yolk  mixture,  and  Wesson  oil.     Sift  in  flour.     Fold 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Burke 


SPICED  SUGAR  DOUGHNUTS 

Cream  3  tablespoons  shortening,  add  1  cup  sugar.  Add  2  well 
beaten  eggs.  Sift  4  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  teasoon  salt, 
4  teaspoon  baking  powder,  Add  alternately  with  1  cup  milk  to  first 
mixture.  Add  just  enough  more  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll 
Yz  inch  thick  on  floured  board.     Cut  with  doughnut  cutter,  fry  in 

11 


deep  fat  (375  deg.)  until  brown,  turning  once.  Drain  while  still 
warm,  shake  in  paper  bag  holding  mixture  of  %  cup  sugar,  and  2 
tablespoon  cinnamon,  until  doughnuts  are  well  coated.  Makes  two 
dozen. 

Mrs.  Milton  Gosney 


GREEN  CORN  OR  CANNED  CORN  FRITTERS 

Sift  before  measuring: 

1V2  cups  flour.  Reeift  with 
%  teaspoon  salt 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
2  tablespoon  sugar 
Put  in  mixing  bowl  2  well  beaten  eggs,  V2  CUP  evaporated  milk, 
2  cups  corn.     Add  flour  mixture  quickly  but  thoroughly.     Fry  until 
brown  in  hot  fat.     Drain  on  brown  paper. 

Mrs.   Luther  French 


CHEESE  STRAWS 


1  cup  grated  cheese  1  cup  flour 

Butter  size  of  large  egg  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

y2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Work  flour  and  butter  together,  then  add  cheese.     Add  a  little 
water  to  make  dough  so  you  can  handle  and  roll  easily. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Smith 


CHEESE  BISCUITS 
1  cup  of  grated  cheese,  1  cup  of  flour,  pinch  of  red  ground  pep- 
per, and  a  pinch  of  baking  powder,  enough  melted  butter  to  mix. 
Roll  thin,  cut  round  or  in  long  sticks.     Bake  in  hot  oven  425  degrees 
for  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Peeler 


CHEESE  BISCUITS 


1  It)  cheese  %  lb  butter 

1  lb  flour  Cayenne  pepper  to  taste 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Roll  out  y2  inch  thick.     Bake  in  oven  400  deg.     Sprinkle  with 
white  sugar  while  hot. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Cooke 


PEANUT  BUTTER  BREAD 

1  cup  sugar  2  tablespoon  butter 

1  egg  1  cup  sour  milk 

2  rounded  tablespoon  Peanut         1  teaspoon  soda 

Butter   (oily  not  too  dry)        1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
2  cups  flour  Pinch  salt 

Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in  greased  loaf  pan. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Mauldin 

12 


BUCK-WHEATS 

y2  cake  yeast  dissolved  in  little     1  cup  water 

water  2  cups  Buckwheat  flour 

1  cup  scalded  milk 

Beat  five  minutes  and  let  stand  in  warm  place  all  night.     In  the 

morning  add  2  tablespoon  molasses  and  one  egg,  and  pinch  of  soda. 

Let  stand  15  minutes.     Bake  on  hot  griddle,  spread  thin. 

Miss   Addle  Brown   (Deceased) 


RAISIN  AND  NUT  BREAD 

1  cup  sugar  1  egg 

1   tablespoon   shortening  iy2  cups  sweet  milk 

•A  cups  flour  4   teaspoons   baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

V2  cup  chopped  raisins 

Mix  as  cake  batter  and  bake  in  medium  oven  until  done. 

Mrs.  Kobt.  P.  Lemmon 


"HUSH  PUPPIES" 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  cup  corn  meal 

2  teaspoon  baking  powder  %  teaspoon  salt 
y2  teaspoon  sugar                               1  medium  onion 

1  egg  6  tablespoon  rich  milk 

1  tablespoon  water 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  onions  and  egg  and  beat  well.  Add 
milk  and  water  and  beat  until  batter  is  smooth.  Drop  by  spoonful 
into  deep  hot  fat  and  fry  until  a  golden  brown.  Drain  on  absorbent 
paper.  Serve  hot  with  fish,  chicken  or  barbecued  meats.  Also  all 
vegetables. 

Miss  An /i/c  Sbupittg 

Embodied  in  the  title  of  this  recipe  is  a  most  interesting  story. 
Years  ago  negroes  would  congregate  on  warm  fall  evenings  for  cane 
grindings.  After  their  work  was  completed  they  would  gather 
around  an  open  fire,  over  which  was  suspended  an  iron  pot  in  which 
fish  and  corn  pones  were  cooked  in  fat.  The  negroes  were  said  to 
have  a  certain  way  of  making  these  corn  pones  which  were  unusually 
delicious  and  appetizing.  They  would  tell  weird  stories  while  gath- 
ered around  the  pot  and  their  hounds  would  be  on  the  outer  edge  of 
the  circle  of  light  reflected  by  the  fire.  If  the  talk  ceased  for  a 
moment  a  low  whine  of  hunger  from  the  dogs  would  attract  the 
attention  of  the  men  and  subconsciously  a  hand  would  reach  for  some 
of  the  corn  pone  and  toss  it  to  a  hungry  dog  with  the  abstract  mur- 
mur "Hush  puppy."  The  effect  of  this  gesture  on  the  hounds  was 
always  instantaneous  and  the  negroes  attributed  the  result  to  the 
remarkable  flavor  of  what  eventually  became  known  as  "Hush  Pup- 
pies." 

Mrs.  James  Cooper 

13 


NEVER  FAIL  ROLLS 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  buttermilk  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  shortening  y2  teaspoon  soda 
4  teaspoons  sugar  Vk  ca^e  yeast 

Flour  for  soft  dough 
Pour  buttermilk  into  warm  bowl,  add  well  beaten  egg  and 
crumbled  yeast,  stir  until  yeast  is  dissolved,  add  other  ingredients 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  Smooth  to  V2  ineh  thickness  with  hands,  add- 
ing only  enough  flour  to  keep  the  dough  from  sticking.  Coat  sheet 
of  dough  with  melted  butter,  cut  into  small  biscuits,  place  in  warim 
baking  tin  and  keep  warm  until  risen  twice  the  size.  Place  in  hot 
oven  400  to  425  degrees  and  bake  quickly,  butter  top  and  leave  in 
oven  until  golden  brown. 

Mrs.   Zeb  V.  Trexler,  Jr. 


SWEET  POTATO  BUNS 

(Copied   from   "The   Virginia  Housewife",   a    cook  book  published 

in  1828) 
"Boil  and  mask  a  potato,  rub  into  it  as  much  flour  as  will  make 
it  like  bread.  Add  spice  and  sugar  to  your  teste,  with  a  spoonful 
of  yeast;  (will  have  to  use  part  of  a  cake  of  yeast),  when  it  has 
risen  well,  work  in  a  piece  of  butter;  bake  in  small  rolls  to  be  eaten 
hot  with  butter,  either  for  breakfast  or  tea*." 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 


SWEET  POTATO  PONE 


1  quart  grated  sweet  potato  y2  pint  milk 

%  pound  butter  1  tablespoon  powdered  ginger 

%  pound  sugar  Grated  peel  1  orange 

Rub   ingredients   well   together  and   bake  in  a  shallow  plate  in 
slow  oven.     A  little  molasses  may  be  added. 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 
PANETONE  BREAD  (ITALIAN) 

Dissolve  in  2  cups  lukewarm  milk,  which  has  first  been  scalded, 
1  tablespoon  sugar  and  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast.  Add  2  cups 
sifted  all-purpose  flour  and  beat  well.  Cream  together  5  tablespoons 
shortening  and  1  cup  sugar.  Add  2  well  beaten  eggs.  Now  add  to 
first  mixture  along  with  4  cups  sifted  flour  and  1  teaspoon  salt.  Cover 
and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place  until  light,  about  1%  hours.  Then  add 
V>  cup  raisins,  V>  cup  thinly  sliced  citron,  1  cup  shelled  pinenute  (1 
cup  chopped  walnuts  mav  be  used  instead)  all  well  floured,  %  tea- 
spoon anise  extract  (go  easy)  or  1  teaspoon  nutmeg  and  %  ot  mace. 
Knead  lightly— you'll  have  to  add  more  flour,  of  course.  When 
smooth  and  satiny,  round  up  into  a  ball  and  place  in  a  large  greased 
bowl,  brushing  the  top  with  oil.  Cover  and  let  rise  until  double  in 
bulk  Then  mould  into  round  loaves,  whatever  size  you  like.  Beat 
1  eo-o  slightly,  adding  about  a  tablespoon  cold  water,  and  use  to  brush 
overathe°top  of  each  loaf.  Place  on  cookie  sheet.  Allow  to  rise  un- 
til double  in  bulk.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (350  degrees)  about  45 
minutes,  depending  on  size.  May  be  brushed  with  thin  powdered 
sugar  frosting  while  hot. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Cornelison 

14  (Aunt  of  Mrs.  R.  J.  Misenheimer) 


CAKES  AND  COOKIES 

"We'll  mix  and  ibake  the  dainty  cake, 
And  beat  the  frosting  light; 
The  sweetest  plan  to  please  a  man, 
Is  through  his  appetite." 


GARDEN  OF  EDEN  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  (can  use  half  butter  3  squares  chocolate  melted 

and   half  other   shortening)  y2  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  each  cloves,  all  spice 
4  eggs — separated  and   cinnamon 

3  cups  cake  flour  sifted  1  cup  milk 

4  teaspoon  baking  powder  ^4  cup  fruit  juice 
1  tablespoon  shaved  citron 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar  well,  add  beaten  egg  yolks,  sift  to- 
gether, flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  spices ;  then  add  citron  to  this 
mixture,  add  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  milk  and  fruit  juice. 
Stir  in  melted  chocolate  and  then  egg  whites  beaten  stiffly.  Bake 
for  about  45  minutes  in  greased  loaf  pan  in  350  degree  oven.  When 
cool  cover  top  with  lemon  icing. 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 


BURNT  SUGAR  CAKE 
V/z  cups  sugar  1  cup  sweet  milk 

%  cup  cold  water  2*/2  cups  flour 

2  eggs  1  tsp  baking  powder 

1  tsp  vanilla  1  scant  teaspoon  soda 

Burn  one-half  cup  sugar  in  a  steel  spider  to  a  deep  brown,  add 
water,  shake  well  until  all  sugar  is  dissolved  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
Cream  shortening  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  yolks  that  have  been 
beaten  until  thick  and  lemon  colored,  add  milk  and  mix  flour  sifted 
three  times  with  baking  powder  and  soda  then  add  burnt  liquid  and 
last  the  beaten  egg  whites  and  flavoring.  Bake  layers  in  a  quick 
oven  and  cover  with  caramel  frosting. 

Mrs.  G.  E.  Goodnight 


CHILDKEN'S  BIRTHDAY  CAKE 

Cream  y2  cup  butter  with  one  cup  sugar.  Add  y%  cup  of  sweet 
milk  alternately  with  2  cups  flour  which  have  been  sifted  with  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder  and  pinch  of  salt.  Add  y2  teaspoon  lemon 
flavoring.  Beat  3  egg  whites  to  a  froth  and  gently  stir  in.  Color 
one  half  of  this  batter  a  light  pink. 

Make  a  second  batter  the  same  way  using  the  egg  yolks  beaten 
to  a  cream  instead  of  the  whites.  Color  one  half  with  melted  choco- 
late and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

This  is  put  into  four  cake  tins.     Each  tin  has  a  ring  of  the 

15 


four  colors  and  must  be  put  in  as  follows: 
1 — White,  Pink,  Yellow,  Brown. 
2— Pink,  White,  Brown,  Yellow. 
3— Yellow,  Brown,  White,  Pink. 
4 — Brown,  Yellow,  Pink,  White. 
Cook  at  375  degrees. 

Mrs.  D.  H.  Crowell 
(Mother  of  Mrs.  Milton  Gosney) 


BUTTER  CUP  CAKE 

Y2  cup  butter  V2  teaspoon  soda 

1^2  CUPS  sugar  V2    teaspoon   salt 

2  eggs  1  cup  buttermilk 

2x/2  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  tsp  baking  powder 

Beat  eggs  before  adding.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs 
then  milk  and  flour  a  little  at  the  time,  sift  flour,  soda,  ibaking  pow- 
der and  salt  about  three  times,  add  vanilla  last. 

Mrs.  C.  I.  Scruggs 


PRUNE  AND  BLACK  WALNUT  CAKE 

Cream  V2  cup  of  butter,  and  1  small  cup  of  sugar;  beat  to  a 
cream.  Add  2  egg-yolks  well  beaten.  Pit  and  cut  in  half  1  cup  of 
drained  prunes,  1  cup  of  prune  juice,  add  y2  cup  of  black  walnuts, 
2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of 
2  egg?.  Add  V2  teaspoon  soda  to  prune  juice  and  add  with  *4  tea- 
spoon essence  of  orange  extract.     Bake  in  two  layers. 

— Orange  Filling — 

Two-thirds  cup  sugar  and  the  grated  peeling  and  juice  of  one 
orange,  the  juice  of  V2  lemon,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  2  tablespoons 
flour  mixed 'with  a  little  cold  water.  Mix  all  together  then  pour  in 
a  cup  of  boiling  water  and  cook  until  thick.  Let  cool  and  then  spread 
between  layer  and  on  top. 

Mrs.  S.  H.  Gosney 
Submitted  by  Miss  Bessie  Gosney 


ONE,  TWO,  THREE,  FOUR  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  ^4   teaspoon  soda — dissolved   in 

2  cups  sugar  sour  milk 

3  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  each  vanilla  and  lem- 

4  eggs  on  flavoring 
1  cup  milk  (fresh  buttermilk)  V2  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Cream  abutter,  add  sugar,  beat  well  and  add  one  egg  at  a  time, 
beating  well  after  each.  Sift  flour  several  times  with  baking  pow- 
der and  salt,  and  add  to  other  mixture  alternately  with  milk.  Makes 
four  large  layers, 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 

16 


ECONOMY  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  V2   teaspoon   gbda   dissolved   in 
V2  cup  butter  milk 

2|3  cups  buttermilk  Pinch  salt 

l1/?  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

3  eggs  V2  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  as  usual  and  bake  in  layers. 

Mrs.   Donald  Schweizer 


PLAIN  CAKE 


y2  cup  butter  l3/4  cup  sugar 

2  cups  flour  6  eggs 

2  tablespoons  milk  2  teaspoon  baking  .powder 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  V2  teaspoon  lemon 

Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  3  times.  Beat  eggs  until  thick  like 
heavy  cream.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  and  flour  alter- 
nately.    Add  milk  and  vanilla  last.     Bake  in  oven  275  deg.  one  hour. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Slate 


YELLOW  CAKE 


2  cups  sugar  3  cups  flour 

1  cup  butter  Pinch  salt 

1  cup  sweet  milk  8  egg  yellows 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  milk  and  flour  a  little  at  a  time. 
Bake  in  stem  cake  pan  one  hour  at  325  degrees. 

Mrs.  Sara  Ed  mis  ton  , 


QUICK  CAKE  ON  ELECTRIC  MIXER 

1%  cups  sifted  plain  flour  l|3  cup  shortening   (part  butter 

1  cup  sugar  for  flavor) 

%  teaspoon  salt  2)3  cup  milk 

2!/2  teaspoons  baking  powder         1  egg 

1   teaspoon  flavoring 
Be  sure  all   ingredients  are   room    temperature   to  make   batter 
easy  to  beat. 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  baking  powder  together  in  mixing 
bowl.  Add  shortening,  milkj  unbeaten  egg,  and  flavoring  all  at 
once.  Beat  all  ingredients  together  for  two  minutes,  being  sure  to 
time  the  stops  for  scraping  down  sides  and  bottom  of  bowl,  so  that 
actual  beating  time  is  two  minutes.  Pour  into  well  greased  and 
floured  pan  (8  in.  square  and  2y2  in.  deep  or  large  layer  cake  pan). 
Bake  25  to  35  minutes  in  350  deg.  oven. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Hackett 

17 


ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

IV2  cups  egg  whites  IV2  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

l/2  teaspoon  salt  \y2  teaspoons  vanilla 

iy2  cups  cake  flour  1  teaspoon  almond  flavoring 

2  cups  sugar 

Si  f f  flour  once  before  measuring,  add  one  cup  of  sugar  to  flour 
and  sift  four  times,  sift  the  other  cup  of  sugar  four  times  and  set 
aside.  Beat  eg?  whites  (be  sure  eggs  have  been  out  of  the  refrigera- 
tor at  least  an  hour  before  using),  add  salt  to  egg  whites,  beat  until 
foamy,  add  cream  of  tartar  and  continue  beating  until  stiff,  but  not 
dry,  add  the  cup  of  sugar  to  egg  whites  a  little  at  a  time.  Use  low 
speed.  Add  the  flavoring — use  egg  beater  rather  than  electric  mixer 
— fold  in  flour  and  sugar  mixture,  adding  it  to  egg  whites.  Fold  in 
slowly,  pour  into  pan.  Bake  65  minutes  in  over  325  degrees.  Re- 
move from  oven,  invert  pan  on  wire  cake  cooler  until  cold.  Remove 
carefully  from  pan.     Cover  with  white  frosting. 

— White  Frosting — 

7|8  cup  granulated  sugar  6  marshmallows 

1  unbeaten  egg  white  ^  teaspoon  baking  powder 

3  tablespoons  cold  water  y2  teaspoon  vanilla  extract 

Place  the  three  first  ingredients  in  the  upper  part  of  a  double 
boiler.  Put  over  boiling  water.  Beat  with  egg  beater  seven  minutes 
or  until  thick.  Remove  from  fire,  drop  in  marshmallows  and  add 
flavoring.  Beat  until  nearly  cold,  then  add  baking  powder.  Beat 
until  thick  enough  to  spread  on  cake  without  running. 

Miss  Julia  Groves 


SPICE  CAKE  NO.  I 

Cream  together:  y2  tsp  salt 

5  tb.  shortening  1/2  tsp  baking  powder 

1  cup  brown  sugar  y2  tsp  cinnamon 

Add :  y2  tsp  cloves 

1  egg  yolk  Add,  alternately  flour  and  milk 

Sift  together:  2|3  cup  buttermilk 

1^4  cup  flour  y2  tsp  vanilla 

y2  tsp  soda 
Spread  evenly  into  square  cake  pan  which  has  been  greased  and 
floured.     Beat  1  egg  white  until  stiff,  add  Y2  cup  brown  sugar  and 
y2  cup  chopped  nuts,  fold  gently  into  beaten     egg     whites.     Spread 
evenly  over  uncooked  cake  batter  and  ba"ke  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  /.  M.  tiles 


RICH  SPICE  CAKE 


2  cups  brown  sugar  3  eggs 

1  cup  lard  and  butter  mixed  1  cup  sour  milk 

Sift  3y2  cups  flour  with  one  teaspoon  eaeh  salt,  soda,  cinnamon, 
nutmeg,  allspice  and  cloves,  add  1  In.  raisins  and  x/2^>.  walnut  or 
pecan  meats.     Take  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture,  roll  in  sugar,  place 

18 


on  pans  one  inch  apart,  let  raise  20  minutes  and  bake.  This  may  be 
baked  in  a  loaf  and  will  keep  moist  for  weeks.  Wrap  in  waxed 
paper,  before  putting  away. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Watson 


LAZY  DAISY  CAKE 
2  eggs  1  tsp  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  Vi  tsp  salt 

1  tsp  vanilla  x/2  euP  rnilk 

1  cup  flour  2  tbsp  shortening 

Mix  eggs,  sugar  and  vanilla  well.  Add  flour,  baking  powder  and 
salt.  Bring  milk  and  shortening  to  a  boil  and  add  to  batter.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  20-30  minutes. 

— Frosting — 
6  tbsp  butter  (melted)  2  tbsp  cream 

1  eup  brown  sugar  y2  can  cocoanut 

Mix  the  above  and  spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  Price  Surratt 


HOT  MILK  CAKE 

4  eggs  1  cup  sweet  milk 

2  cups  sugar  V2  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  flour  1  stick  butter  (V^lb.) 

2  tsp  baking  powder 

Beat  eggs  well,  add  sugar,  beat  good,  stir  in  flour  to  which  bak- 
ing powder  has  been  added.  Put  milk  and  butter  in  sauce  pan  on 
stove  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  pour  in  first  mixture  little  at  a  time, 
then  add  y2  teaspoon  vanilla  and  V2  teaspoon  lemon  and  mix  good. 
Put  in  tube  pan  greased  and  floured  and  bake  at  325  degrees. 

Mrs.  M.  T.  Owen 


MOLASSES  CAKE 
One-third  cup  lard  dissolved  in  1  cup  boiling  water,  y2  teaspoon 
soda,  l|3  teaspoon  salt,  2V2  cups  flour,  1  cup  molasses  alid   x/2  CUP 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  egg  and  y2  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Dissolve  soda  in  water  and  molasses.     Bake  in  loaf  pan. 

Mrs.  W.  A.  Propst 

SOLID  APPLESAUCE  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  Add  4  teaspoons  soda 

2  cups  sugar  2   cups  raisins    (chopped) 

3  eggs  2  cups,  pecans  (chopped) 
1  cup  milk   (sweet)  1   teaspoon  cinnamon 

3  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  cloves 

3  cups  cooked  apples  1  teaspoon  allspice 

(or  apple  sauce)  1  small  can  crushed  pineapple 

Bake  in  round  pan  as  fruit  cake. 

Mrs.  Hill  C.  Trexler 

19 


GRANDMA'S  MOLASSES  CAKE 

2/3  cup  shortening  2  cups  flour 

V4  cup  sugar  1V2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

3/i  cup  molasses  V2    teaspoon    soda 

2  egt;s  beaten  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

V2  cup  milk  V2  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  and  then  sift  flour,  soda  and 
baking  powder,  add  eggs  that  have  been  beaten,  add  molasses  last. 

Mn.  C.  I.  Scruggs 


CROWN  CAKE 

Measure  into  mixing  bowl : 

2  cups  sifted   cake   flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  1/3  cup  sugar  2/3  cup  milk 

Y2  cup  shortening 

Blend  by  hand  or  mixer  for  2  minutes.  Stir  in  3  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  add  1/3  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Blend  by- 
hand  or  mixer  for  2  minutes.  Pour  into  9-inch  ring  mold,  3"  deep, 
rubbed  with  shortening  and  lined  with  waxed  paper  along  the  bottom. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  375  degrees  40  to  45  minutes.  When  cool  ice 
with  creaming  icing. 

Mrs.  A.  T.  Gobbel 


LEMON  AND  ORANGE  LAYER  CAKE 

4  eggs  V4  lb.  butter 

2   cups   sugar  1  cup  sweet  milk 

2  cups  flour  1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  tsps.   bakim:'  powder 

Mix  eggs,  sugar,  flour  (sift  3  times)  and  baking  powder  well.  Let 
butter  and  milk  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  to  batter.  Add  flavoring. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  20  minutes. 

ICING 
1  pkg.   pulverized   suyar  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

*4   pound  butter  and  1  orange. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  juice  and  grated  rind.  Spread 
on  cake. 

Mrs.  Price  Surratt 


PEACH  UPSIDE  DOWN  CAKE 

9  canned  cling  peach  halves  1  tsp.  vanilla 

V±  cup  soft  butter  or  margarine     2   cups   cake   flour 
V2  cup  brown  sugar  3  tsp.  baking  powder 

y-2  cup  shortening  1  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  2/3  cup  milk 

2  eg°:s — Maraschino  Cherries 
Drain  peaches,  spread  softened  butter  in  bottom  of  deep  square 
9"  pan.  Pack  brown  sugar  evenly  on  top  of  butter.  Arrange  peaches 
upside  down  on  sugar  mixture.  Lay  cherries  in  uniform  pattern  be- 
tween peach  halves.  Cream  shortening,  add  sugar  gradually,  cream- 
ing thoroughly.     Blend  in  well  beaten  eggs  and  flavoring      Stir  in 

20 


sifted  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  milk,  beginning  and  ending 
with  dry  ingredients.  Pour  batter  carefully  over  fruit.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  over  350  degrees  about  J  hour.  Loosen  sides  of  cake 
with  spatula  and  turn  out  of  pan  immediately  allowing  pan  to  rest 
over  cake  a  few  seconds  so  that  syrup  will  drain. 

Mrs.  A.  T.  Gobbcl 


PINEAPPLE  UPSIDE  DOWN  CAKE 

1.  In  a   9"  skillet  melt  3   tablespoons  butter 

2.  Remove  from  heat  and  sprinkle  with  Vo  cup  brown  sugar 

3.  Arrange  on  sugar  8  or  10  slices  of  pineapple 

4.  Beat  until  very  light  2  egys 

5.  Add  while  beating  V'j  teaspoon  salt.  1  cap  su»ar,  1  tsp.  vanilla 

6.  Heat  to  boiling  point  *4  cup  evaporated  mil!.:,  diluted  with  x/\  cup 

■vater,  1  tablespoon  shortening 

7.  Beat  into  egg  mixture 

8.  Sift  together  1  cup  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

9.  Add  to  milk  mixture,  beating  quickly  but  thoroughly 

10.  Pour  over  pineapple 

11.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  360  degrees  25  or  30  minutes  or  until  cake 

shrinks  from  side  of  pan.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  for  topping. 
Serves  6 

Mrs.  L.  O.  Woodson 


LADY   BALTIMORE   CAKE 


3  cups  sifted  flour  1  \/o  cup  sugar 

3  teasioons  baking  powder  P'j  cup  milk 

V2  cup  salt  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

V2  cup  butter  or  shortening  1  e  ••_;  whites 

Sift  flour  once,  measure,  add  bakinu  powder  and  salt,  and  sift 
3  times.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  cream  together  until 
light  and  fluffy.  Add  flour  alternately  with  milk,  beating  after  each 
addition.  Add  vanilla.  Beat  egg  whites  until  they  will  hold  up  in 
moist  peaks.  Stir  quickly  but  thoroughly  into  batter.  Bake  in  2 
nine-inch  layers  in  moderate  375  degree  oven  25  to  30  minutes  .Spread 
with  Lady  Baltimore  Filling  as  follows: 


LADY  BALTIMORE  FROSTING  AND  FILLING 

2  egg  whites  6  figs 

l1/^  cup  suyar  y2  cup  chopped  nut  meats 

5  tablespoons  water  V2   euP  raisins 

\x/o  teaspoon  light  corn  syrup  Candied  Cherries 

V2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Combine  sugar,  water,  egg  whites  and  syrup  in  top  of  double  boiler. 
Cook  as  7  minute  frosting.  Add  vanilla.  Beat  until  thick  enough 
to  spread.  For  filling  scald  figs  and  raisins  and  chop.  Add  enough 
frosting  to  make  a  filling  that  will  spread  easily.  Spread  between 
layers.  Spread  remaining  frosting  on  top  and  sides  of  cake.  Sprin- 
kle top  with  chopped  cherries  and  additional  nuts  and  raisins  and 
figs  while  frosting  is  still  soft. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Brown 
21 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

2  cups  sifted  cake  flour  l1/^  cup  sugar 

2  teaspoons  Calumet  Baking  2  eggs,  unbeaten 

powder  3  squares  Baker's  unsweetened 

Yi  teasi>oon  soda  chocolate  melted 

Y>  teespooa  salt  1  cup  milk 

V2  cup  l)ii  tter  or  other  shortening   1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Sift  flour  once,  measure,  add  baking  powder,  soda,  and  salt,  and 
sift  together  three  times.  Cream  butter  thoroughly,  add  sugar  grad- 
ually, and  cream  together  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a 
time,  beating  thoroughly  after  each.  Then  add  chocolate  and  blend. 
Add  flour,  alternately  with  milk,  a  small  amount  at  a  time,  beating 
after  each  addition  until  smooth.  Add  vanilla.  Bake  in  two  greased 
9"  layer  pans  in  moderate  oven  (350  F.)  30  minutes.  Spread  Golden 
Cream  Filling  between  layers  and  Chocolate  Fuff  Frosting  on  top 
and  sides  of  cake. 


GOLDEN  CREAM  FILLING 

Combine  V2  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  Swans  Down  Cake  Flour, 
and  x/±  teaspoon  salt  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Add  IV2  cups  milk 
gradually,  mixing  thoroughly.  Place  over  boiling  water  and  cook 
10  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  small  amount  of  mixture  over 
2  slightly  beaten  egg  yolks,  stirring  vigorously,  return  to  double  boiler 
and  cook  2  minutes  longer  (or  until  thick)  stirring  constantly.  Add 
1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  cool.  If  deeper  yellow  tint  is  desired  ,add  a 
few  drops  of  yellow  coloring.  Makes  enough  filling  to  spread  between 
two  9-inch  lavers. 


CHOCOLATE  FLUFF  FROSTING 

Cream  4  table  spoons  butter,  add  %  cup  sifted  confectioners' 
sugar  and  blend.  Add  I  teaspoon  vanilla,  3  squares  Baker's  Unsweet- 
ened Chocolate,  melted,  and  x/±  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  two  egg  whites 
until  stiff,  but  not  dry.  Add  %  cup  sifted  confectioners'  sugar,  2 
tablespoons  at  a  time,  beating  after  each  addition  until  blended.  Then 
continue  beating  until  mixture  will  stand  in  peaks.  Add  to  chocolate 
mixture  folding  gently  but  thoroughly,  only  enough  to  blend.  Makes 
enough  frosting  to  cover  top  and  sides  of  cake. 

Miss  Mary  Tilley 


DATE  NUT  CAKE 


1  lb.  dates  4  eggs 

1  lb.  pecans  2  cups  flour 

1  lb.  sugar  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

V2  lb.  butter  2  tsp.  vanilla 

Cut  fine  dates  and  nuts.  Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  beaten 
egg  yolks.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  over  dates  and  nuts,  mix 
Well.  Add  butter  and  sugar,  also  egg  yolks.  Combine.  Then  add 
beaten  egg  whites  with  vanilla.  Fold  in.  Bake  3  hours  at  300  de- 
grees.    Put  pan  of  water  on  rack  over  cake  while  baking. 

Mrs.  A.  F.  Land 

22 


CHOCOLATE  MARSHMALLOW  CAKE 

V2  cup  shortening  2  eg.^s 

%  cup  sugar  2  squares  chocolate 

*2  teaspoon  salt  1%  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon   vanilla  1  teaspoon  soda 
V2  cup  white  Karo  1   cup   sour   milk 

Blend  shortening,  sugar,  salt,  vanilla  and  slightly  beaten  eggs. 
Add  syrup  and  melted  chocolate.  Beat  well.  Then  add  flour  and  soda 
(sifted  together)  alternately  with  milk,  mixing  thoroughly.  Bake  in 
two  layers  in  oven  375  degrees. 

ICING 

2  egg  whites  8  niarshmallows 

1  cup  white  Karo  V2    teaspoon    vanilla 

Combine  egg  whites  and  syrup  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Cook 
while  beating  with  rotary  beater  until  thick  and  fluffy.  Add  diced 
niarshmallows  and  beat  until  melted.  Remove  from  heat,  add  vanilla 
and  beat  until  it  holds  its  peaks.     Spread. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Brown 


GINGERBREAD 


2  cups  sifted  cake  flour  1/3  cup  shortening 

2  teaspoons  baking  soda  x/£  cup  sugar 

a/4  teaspoon  soda  1  egg,  well  beaten 

2  teaspoons  ginger  2/3  cup  molasses 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  %  cup  sour  milk  or  buttermilk 

1/2  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  flour  once,  measure,  add  baking  powder,  soda,  spices  and 
salt,  and  sift  together  three  times.  Cream  shortening  thoroughly, 
add  sugar  gradually,  and  cream  together  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add 
egg  and  molasses;  then  flour,  alternately  with  milk.  Beat  after  each 
addition  until  smooth.  Pour  into  greased  pan  or  a  ring  mold.  Bake 
in  moderate  over  (350  degrees  F.)  ll/±  hours.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  As  a  variation  use  gingerbread  as  the  base  for  fruit 
shortcakes.     Serves  6. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Stoudemire 


SOUTHERN  SPICY  GINGERBREAD 
(Very  old  recipe) 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  each  soda   and  gin- 

%  cup  brown  sugar  ger 

%  cup  molasses   (home  made  is     l^o  teaspoon  cinnamon 

best)  V2  teaspoon  each  cloves,  nutmeg 

%  cup  melted  shortening  and   baking   powder 

2x/2  cups  flour  1  cup  boiling  water 

Add  beaten  eggs  to  the  sugar,  molasses  and  melted  shortening, 
then  add  the  dry  ingredients  which  have  been  mixed  and  sifted  and 
lastly  the  hot  water.  Bake  in  small  individual  pans  or  in  a  shallow 
pan  in  moderate  oven  350  degrees,  30  to  40  minutes. 

Miss  Abbie  Peeler 

23 


SOFT  GINGERBREAD 
(Very  old  recipe,  belonged  to  Mrs.  Peeler's  grandmother) 
1  tablespoon  shortening;  1  cup  brown  suiiar,  or  white,  1  egg,  1 
cup  molasses,  3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  2  teaspoons  ginger, 
1  teaspoon  allspice,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  l/o  teaspoon  salt,  1% 
cups  sweet  milk.  Soften  shortening  not  melting,  add  the  sugar,  egg, 
and  cream  all  together.  Stir  in  the  molasses,  and  add  the  flour,  spices, 
salt,  baking  powder  has  been  sifted  together,  and  add  the  milk.  Bake 
in  a  shallow  pan  thirtyfive  minutes  in  (325  P.). 

Mrs.  George  C.  Peeler 


UPSIDE  DOWN  GINGERBREAD  CAKE 

IV2  tablespoon  butter  melted  in  iron  skillet,  add  V2  cup  molasses 
or  syrup.  Heat  to  boiling  point.  Set  aside  in  warm  place.  Pit  slices 
of  pineapple  into  bottom  of  skillet.  Fill  in  between  with  nuts  and 
raisins.  Cream  3  table  spoons  shortening  and  V2  cup  sugar,  add  1 
egg  well  beaten,  V2  CUP  molasses  or  syrup,  1%  cup  flour  to  which  has 
been  added  x/2  teaspoon  each  of  ginger,  cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg,  salt 
and  soda,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Mix  thoroughly.  Add  V2  cup 
boiling  water.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  30  or  35  minutes. 

Mrs.  Luther  French 


MOUNTAIN  CAKE 

1/2  lb.   butter  1  lb.  sifted  flour 

J   lb.  sugar  6  eggs  beaten  separately 

1   teaspoon   each   baking   powder      1   tea   cup  sweet  milk 
and  cream  ol    tartar 
Mix  and  bake  as  for  pound  cake. 

Mrs.  /.  B.  Sheets 
(Mother  of  Mrs.  Will  Eagle) 


JAM  CAKE  (very  old  recipe) 

2  cups  sugar  G  eggs 

4  cups  flour — good  measure  1  lb.  raisins 

11L.  cups  butter  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  buttermilk  1  heaping  tablespoon  cinnamon 

2  cups  blackberry  jam  1  tsp  nutmeg 
2  cups  cherry  preserves 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar,  add  eggs  well  beaten,  then  butter- 
milk and  soda  and  mix  well  Then  add  jam,  preserves,  raisins,  cin- 
namon and  nutmeg  and  mix.  Then  add  flour  which  has  been  sifted 
three  times.     Bake  in  five  layers  and  put  together  with  this  filling: 

1  lb.  tigs,  cut  and  cooked  until  tender,  add  1  cup  sugar,  cook  until 
very  thick.     Put   together  with  caramel  filling: 
8  cups  brown  sugar  Vi  lb.  butter 

2  cups  milk 

Cook  sugar,  milk  and  butter  until  forms  a  soft  ball  when  tried 
in  water.  Remove  from  fire  and  let  cool  and  beat  until  creamy,  add 
figs  and  spread  on  cake. 

Miss  Ida  Shuping 
2A 


SEA  FOAM  CAKE 
1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

3  eggs  1  teaspoon  cloves 

2|3  cups  butter  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  buttermilk  1%  cups  flour 

Y2  teaspoon  soda  (dissolved  in 
milk) 

Mix  as  usual,  and  ice  with  following: 
iy2  cups  brown  sugar  1  egg  white  V2  cup  water 

Cook  sugar  and  water  until  a  little  dropped  in  cold  water  forms 
a  hard  ball.  Have  egg  white  beaten  and  pour  syrup  over  egg  whites 
slowly  and  beat  constantly  when  creamy  spread  on  cake  layers. 

Mrs.  Will  Freeman 


JAM  CAKE 


1  cup  butter  1  tsp.  each  all  spice,  nutmeg,  cin- 

2  cups  sugar  namon.  cloves,  soda  (in  milk) 
1   cup  buttermilk                                5  or  6  eggs 

1  cup  jam,  nuts,  raisins   (each)      3  cups  flour 

2  tablespoons  cocoa 

Gring  nuts  and  raisins  and  mix  as  usual.     Use  7  minutes  icing 
with  one  cup  chopped  raisins. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Avert,  Water  Valley,  Miss. 

(Sister  Mrs.  J.  M.  Moore) 


JAM  LAYER  CAKE 

6  e'rgs  1  cup  jam 

1  cup  butter  1   thsp.   cinnamon 
3  cups  flour  1  tbsp.  all  spice 

2  cups   sugar  1  tsp.  soda  in  1  cup  buttermilk 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs,  flour,  buttermilk,  jam  and 
spices.  Mix  well.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Cover  with  Sea  Foam 
Icing:  3  cups  brown  sugar,  1/3  cup  milk,  2  egg  whites.  Cook  sugar 
and  milk  until  a  little  dropped  in  cold  water  forms  a  soft  ball.  Pour 
over  egg  whites  which  have  been  beaten  and  beat  until  creamy  and 
spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Stvaim 
(Mother  of  Mrs.  Price  Surratt) 


WHITE  FRIUT  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  and   lemon) 

1  cup  milk  y2  lb.  cherries,  y2  lb.  pineapple, 

2y2  cups  sugar  V2  lb.  citron 

3V2  cups  flour  1  lb.  cream  nuts 

Flavoring,  lemon,  vanilla,  orange,     1  lb.  white  raisins 

almond  V2  teaspoon  salt 

1   large   cocoanut    (fresh)  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

y2  lb.  almonds  6  eggs 

y±  lb.  mixed  peeling  (orange        1  lb.  pecans 
Mix  as  usual  and  bake  as  usual. 

Mrs.  Burt  C.  Miller 
25 


TREASURE  CHEST  CAKE 

Sift  together  2  cups  flour,  IV2  teaspoon  baking  powder,  V2  tea- 
spoon salt.  Cut  in  small  pieces  V2  lb.  blanched  almonds,  ^4  lb.  each 
citron,  candied  orange  peel  and  lemon  peel.  (%  cups  each).  Vi  lb. 
candied  cherries,  Vi  lb.  each  of  dates,  dried  apricots  and  white  figs, 
\o  lb.  white  raisins,  V2  lb.  coeoanut,  1*4  cups  of  unstrained  crushed 
pineapple.  Mix  well  with  the  fruits  and  nuts  about  %  cup  flour. 
Cream  together  1  cup  each  of  butter  and  sugar,  add  5  eggs,  one  at  a 
time  along  with  3  tablespoons  flour,  beating  well  after  each  addition. 
Add  remaining  flour,  fruits  and  nuts.  Stir  uutil  well  blended.  Pour 
into  pan  lined  with  3  thicknesses  of  wax  paper.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven 
(230  degrees)  V/2  hours  then  at  275  for  1  hour.  Cool  before  removing 
paper  from  sides.      (Makes  6V2  lbs.). 

Mrs.  O.  C.  Sharpe 


"SUPERIOR" 
(Fruit  Cake) 


3  lbs.  flour 

2  lbs.  currants  1  teaspoon  cloves 

1  tablespoon  allspice  1  lb.  sugar 

1  wine  glass  grape  juice  1  lb.  citron 

1  wine  glass  brandy  flavoring  2  tablespoons  cinnamon 

1  coffee  cupful  of  molasses  with     3  lbs.  raisins 

spices  in  it  12  eggs 

1  lb.  butter  2  nutmegs 

Steep  the  molasses  and  spices  gently  twenty  or  thirty  minutes 
not  boiling  hot,  beat  the  eggs  very  lightly,  put  the  fruit  in  last  stir- 
ring it  gradually,  also  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  water.  The  fruit  should  be  floured  if  necessary,  add  flour  after 
the  fruit  is  in.  Butter  a  sheet  of  paper  and  lay  it  in  the  pan,  lay 
in  some  slices  of  citron,  then  a  layer  of  the  mixture,  then  the  citron 
again  till  the  pan  is  nearly  full. 

Bake  three  or  four  hours,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  loaves 
in  a  tolerably  hot  oven,  and  with  steady  heat  let  it  cool  in  oven  grad- 
ually. Ice  when  cold.  It  improves  this  cake  very  much  to  add  three 
(3)   teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  to  the  flour. 

Mrs.  f.  D.  Logan 
Submitted  by  her  daughter,  Mrs.  H.  C.  Swanson 


WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE  NO.  2 

1  cup  butter  Mt  lb.  lemon  peel,  diced 

1  cup  sugar  %    lb.    candied   cherries,   cut   in 

2  cups  flour  rings 

5  eggs  V2  lb.  candied  pineapple,  diced 

IV2  tsP-  baking  powder  V2  lb.  white  raisins 

1  2  lb.  almonds,  cut  in  thirds  V2  lb.  shredded  cocoatnut 

Ji  lb.  citron,  diced  %  cup  canned  pineapple  juice 

Vi  lb.  orange  peel,  diced 

Cream  shortening;  add  sugar  gradually  while  creaming  and  cream 
thoroughly.    Add  eggs,  unbeaten,  one  at  a  time  and  beat  thoroughly 

26 


after  each  addition.  Combine  almonds,  fruits  and  cocoanut  with  one- 
third  of  sifted  dr}7  ingredients.  Add  remaining  sifted  dry  ingredients 
with  the  pineapple  juice  to  egg  mixture.  Add  floured  fruits  and  nuts 
and  blend  thoroughly.     Bake  in  oven  275  degrees  4  hours. 

Mrs.  Lester  Slate 


WHITE  FRTUT  CAKE  NO.  3 

y2  lb.  butter  1   cup  raisins 

1   lb.   sugar  3  cups  cocoanut 

1  lb.  flour  1   cup  almonds 

7  eggs  1    small    can   white   cherries    cut 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  in  halves 
1   cup  sliced,  citron 

Cook  inliube  pan  at  350  degrees  F. 

Mrs.  Jim  Davis    (Deceased) 
Submitted  by  Mrs.  W.  IvL  Eagle 


3  grat 

ed   fresh 

cocoanuts 

y2 

lb. 

candied 

pineapple 

Vo, 

lb. 

candied 

cherries 

V?, 

lb. 

candied 

citron 

V? 

lb. 

light  figs 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE  NO.  4 

%  cup  butter 

2  cups  sugar 

6  eggs 

4  cups  flour 

Vk  lb.  nuts 

1  cup  orange  juice  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  1  egg  at  a 
time  and  beat  after  each  addition.  Add  juice.  Sift  flour  with  4 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  V2  teaspoon  soda.  (Use  1  cup  of  the  flour 
to  flour  fruit  and  nuts  with.)  Add  cocoanut  a  little  at  a  time  with 
the  eggs,  butter,  sugar  and  juice.  Then  add  your  flour,  and  fruit  that 
has  been  floured.  Bake  in  loaf  or  round  pan  in  oven  250  F.  until 
Avell  done.  This  cake  will  keep  over  a  month,  but  not  •  indefinitely 
because  of  the  cocoanut. 

Mrs.   M.   T.   Owen 


JAPANESE  FRUIT  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  1   cup  pecans   and   English    wal- 

2  cups  sugar  nuts 

3  cups  flour  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

6  eggs  1  teaspoon  cloves 

1  box  raisins  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  cup  cocoanut 


FILLING  FOR  JAPANESE  FRUIT  CAKE 
2  cups  sugar  2  orange  juice 

1  cup  boiling  water  2  cups  cocoanut 

2  lemon  juice  4  tablespoons  flour 

Cook  all  together  except   cocoanut  until   thick   as   honey.     Add 
cocoanut  and  cook  two  minutes  and  spread. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Yountz 
27 


FRUIT  CAKE 

1  lb.  butter  1  lb.  citron 

10  eggs  Yz  lb.  candied  cherries 

1  lb.  dates  1  tsp.  cinnamon,  1  tsp.  lemon  ex- 

1  apple  chopped  fine  tract,   1   tsp.   nutmeg,     1    tsp. 

J  lb.  brazil  nuts  (in  shell)  cloves. 

1  quart  of  pecans  (in  shell)  1  lb.  sugar,  1  lb.  flour 

10c   worth   of  orange   peel  2  lbs.  seeded  raisins  (moist  kind) 

10c  worth  of  lemon  peel  1  can  pineapple  "(broken  slices) 

1  lb.  of  walnut  meats  drain   off  juice   and   use   only 

1   quart  of  fig  preserves      (pear      chopped  fruit) 
preserves  may  be  used — drain 
off  juice  and  cut  up  fruit  in 
small  pieces) 

—  Method  — 
Cream  butter  and  sugar  adding  one  egg  at  a  time.     In  a  large 
pan  mix  well  all  floured  fruit  and  nuts.     Be  sure  not  to  use  more 
than  the  one  pound  of  flour  in  flouring  the  fruits  and  nuts.     When 
fruits  and  nuts  are  mixed  add  gradually  to  batter.     Now  add  season- 
ing.    Place  in  pan  with  buttered  paper  in  the  bottom  and  pack  well. 
—  Decoration  — 
Take  10c  worth  of  crystalized  pineapple  (two  slices)  and  cut  into 
two  parts.     These  slices  can  be  placed  on  top  of  your  cake  to  suit 
any  plan.     Now  place  nuts  and  cherries  in  any  design  you  may  like. 

Miss  Helen  Mullis 


FRUIT  CAKE 


2  cups  shortening  Few  grains  salt 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  fruit  juice 

7  eggs  2  tablespoons  milk 

2  packages  figs  2  lbs.  currants 

4  cups  flour  1  lb.  nut  meats 

Cherries  2  lbs.  raisins  seeded  and  chopped 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon  V2  lb.  date  meats  chopped 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  V2  lb.  citron  sliced  in  thin  strips 

Cream  shortening,  add  sugar  gradually  and  beat  5  minutes.  Beat 
egg  yolks  until  light  and  lemon-colored  and  whites  until  stiff  and 
dry.  Add  these  to  the  butter  and  sugar  mixture.  Add  milk,  fruit 
juice,  chopped  nuts,  and  fruit  that  has  been  rolled  in  flour.  Add  well 
sifted  dry  ingredients.  Beat  well  and  place  in  deep  round  cake  pan 
lined  with  several  thicknesses  of  waxed  paper.  Bake  three  or  four 
hours  in  a  slow  oven  275  F. 

Mrs.  O.  T.  Snow 


MOCK  POUND  CAKE 


1  cup  shortening  (scant)  1  cup  milk 

3  scant  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

6  eggs  (beaten  one  at  a  time)         1  teaspoon  almond  extract 

3V2  cups  enriched  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

V2  tsp.  salt 

Cream  shortening.    Add  sugar  gradually.     Add  eggs,  beaten  in 

28 


one  at  a  time.  Add  the  flour  and  baking  powder  that  has  been  sifted 
together,  alternating  with  milk.  Mix  vanilla  and  almond  flavoring 
well  into  cake  batter.  Pour  into  well  greased  tube  cake  pan  and  bake 
in  slow  oven  325  F.  at  least  an  hour. 

Miss  Hazel  L.  Kosemond 


MOCK  POUND  CAKE 


3  cups  cake  flour  6  egg  yolks 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  xfa  cup  milk 

y±  teaspoon  mace  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

y2  pound  butter  6  egg  whites 

V-/-2  cups  sugar 

Sift  flour,  measure  and  resift  three  times  with  baking  powder  and 
mace.  Cream  butter.  Gradually  blend  in  1  cup  of  the  sugar,  add  egg 
yolks  and  beat  vigorously  until  fluffy  and  stiff.  Add  flour  mixture 
and  milk  to  which  vanilla  had  been  added,  alternately  in  small  por- 
tions beating  well  after  each  addition.  Beat  egg  whites  until  fluffy, 
but  not  dry  and  gradually  add  remaining  sugar  and  continue  beating 
until  stiff  and  smooth.  Fold  lightly  but  thoroughly  into  the  batter. 
Turn  batter  into  buttered  mold  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  350, 
60  to  70  minutes. 

Mrs.  Milton  Gosney 


WHITE  MOUNTAIN  POUND  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  (2  weeks  old)  4  cups  flour 

2  cups  white  sugar  a/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  sweet  milk  or  butter  milk     V2  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  or  2     8  egg  whites  or  J  large  cup 
tsps.  and  %  teaspoon  soda  if 

buttermilk  is  used 
Mix  butter,  add  sugar  a  little  at  a  time  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add 
milk  to  this  mixture  alternately  with  the  flour  and  baking  powder, 
which  has  been  sifted  together  twice.  Beat  well,  add  vanilla  and 
lemon  extract  and  blend  well.  Beat  egg  whites  until  they  stand  in 
peaks.  Carefully  fold  into  the  first  mixture.  Beat  until  very  light 
and  pour  into  greased  pound  cake  mold  and  bake  275  F.  H.  until  cake 
leaves  sides  of  pan.  When  cold,  put  in  tight  tin  box  and  it  will  keep 
for  a  week  when  the  weather  is  cool. 

Mrs.  M.  T.  Owen 


POUND  CAKE 

1  lb.  butter  1  lb.  cake  flour 

10  large  eggs  1^4  lb.  sugar 

Cream  butter  thoroughly.  Add  sugar,  small  amount  at  a  time. 
Add  3  tablespoons  sifted  flour.  Beat  thoroughly,  then  add  eggs,  one 
at  a  time.  Add  remaining  flour.  Sift  3  or  4  times.  Bake  21/?  hours 
in  moderate  oven. 

FROSTING 
2  egg  whites  iy2  cup  sugar  2/3  cup  hot  water 

Boil  sugar  till  it  spins  thread.     Pour  slowly  over  stiffly  beaten 


Beat  till  stiff. 


29 


Mrs.  C.  F.  Lemly 


POUND  CAKE 

1  lb.  butter  2  cups  sugar  10  large  eggs  1^4  lbs.  flour 
Work  the  butter  to  a  cream.  Sift  flour  and  add  egg  yolks.  Mix 
these  together  .and  add  egg  whites.  Beat  the  batter  well  for  20  min- 
utes. Put  in  a  round  tin  lined  with  white  buttered  paper.  Bake  from 
one  and  one-half  to  two  hours  250  F.  One  half  ounce  of  sweet  al- 
monds may  be  added. 

Mrs.  O.  T.  Snow 


STRAWBERRY  MERINGUE  CAKE 

1/3  cup  Crisco  V2  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  IV2  euP  flour 

*/2  teaspoon  salt  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  V2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Blend  fluffy  Crisco  with  sugar  and  eggs.  Beat  until  light  and 
frothy.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  and  add  alternately  with 
the  milk.  Add  vanilla.  Mix  well.  Turn  into  greased  shallow  cake 
pan  (8"xl0")  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  (375  F.)  30  minutes.  Cool  and 
cut  in  3"  squares.  Hollow  out  centers.  Fill  with  vanilla  ice  cream 
and  top  with  strawberry  meringue.  (May  be  served  with  strawberry 
meringue  only.) 


STRAWBERRY  MERINGUE 

1  cup  crushed  strawberries  1  egg  white 

2/3  cup  granulated  sugar  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Put  crushed  strawberries,  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  egg  white  in 
large  mixing  bowl.     Beat  until  light  and  stiff. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Sparger 


STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE 

Mix  2V2  cups  flour,  1  tablespoon  baking  powder  and  salt  as  for 
biscuit  dough  2/3  cup  of  lard,  water  or  sweet  milk  to  make  a  dough. 
Divide  amount  of  dough  in  half.  Roll  and  place  in  cake  pan  that 
has  been  heavily  greased  with  butter.  Have  butter  melted  in  small 
pan  and  spread  first  layer  with  melted  butter  then  roll  other  half  and 
place  on  top  of  first  layer.  Spread  top  of  this  with  butter  and  bake 
as  for  bread.  Crush  strawberries  and  add  sugar.  Make  a  boiled  cus- 
tard by  beating  1  egg  and  a  cup  of  sugar  with  y<i  pint  of  milk,  1  table- 
spoon corn  starch  or  2  tablespoons  flour,  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
Cook  thick  and  spread  custard  on  layers,  (Layers  will  separate  when 
done)  then  spread  with  strawberries. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 


BUSY  DAY  CAKE 


1  2/3  cup  flour  1/3  cup  shortening 

1  cup  sugar  2/3  cup  milk    (not  cold) 

14  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

2y2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  flavoring 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together.     Measure  shortening  in  cup  with 

30 


milk.  Add  together  with  egg  and  flavoring.  Beat  well  for  two  min- 
utes. Bake  layers  25  minutes — square  cake  35  to  40  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven  350  F. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Thornton 


BANANA  NUT  CAKE 


Cream  1  cup  of  outter  and  2  cups  of  sugar.  Add  6  eggs(  one  at  a 
time  and  beat  well.  Mash  four  large  bananas  well  and  soft  with  your 
hands.  Sift  4  cups  of  flour.  Take  one  cup  and  mix  with  one  cup 
nuts  that  have  been  chopped  fine.  Then  add  bananas  and  flour  that 
has  been  sifted  with  1  teaspoon  soda  and  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Add  nuts  that  have  been  floured.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  tube  pan 
250   F. 

Mrs.  M.  T.  Owen 


BANANA  CAKE 


*/£  cup  shortening 

IV2  f'uP  sugar  V2  teaspoon  salt 

2  large  eggs  J/i  cup  butter  milk  or  sour  milk 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  mashed  bananas 

V2  teaspoon  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Part  may  be  filled  and  topped  with  sweetened  whipped  cream  and 
sliced  bananas.  The  rest  frosted  with  chocolate  frosting.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  30  to  35  minutes.     350  F. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Thornton 


ROCKY  MOUNTAIN  CAKE 

Whites  of  8  eggs  3  cups  flour 

2  cups  sugar  %  CUP  sweet  milk 

1  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

J/2    teaspoon    soda    dissolved    in 
milk 

Bake  in  layers. 

—  Filling  — 

Boil  2  cups  of  sugar  and  V2  cup  of  water  until  it  makes  a  jelly. 
Pour  this  over  3  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  beat  until  nearly  cold.  Stir 
into  icing  5c  worth  of  citron,  currants  and  dates,  10c  worth  raisins  and 
1  grated  cocoanut.  Fruit  that  requires  seeding  must  be  seeded  and 
cut  very  fine.  A  small  quantity  of  citron,  cocoanut  and  raisins  to- 
gether with  10c  worth  of  almonds  must  be  left  out  of  icing  to  put  on 
the  outside  of  cake. 

Mrs.  T.  E.  Conrad 


GOLDEN  GLOW  CAKE 

Sift  together  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  V2 
teaspoon  salt.  Cream  V2  cup  shortening  with  1  cup  sugar.  Add  2 
eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Beat  well.  Add  %  cup  milk  and  1  teaspoon  va- 
nilla. Add  dry  ingredients  with  liquid.  Mix  well.  Bake  in  8  inch 
layers. 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Hughes 
31 


GOLD  CAKE 

x/i  cup  shortening  3  cups  flour 

\\-i  cup  sugar  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

6  egu  yelks  y2   teaspoon   salt 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  shortening,  add  sugar  and  mix  thoroughly  until  irothy; 
Add  beaten  egg  yolks  and  vanilla.  Beat  well.  Add  sifted  flour  and 
baking  powder,  salt,  alternating  with  the  milk.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  40  to  60  minutes. 

Mrs.  E.  R.  Blackmon 


1  cup  apple  sauce 

1    teaspoon    soda    (for   sour    ap 

pies) 
1  egg 
1  cup  brown  sugar 


APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

V2  cup  butter 

14/4  cup  flour 

1  cup  raisins 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  cloves 


Mix    as    any    other    fruit    cake,    adding    apple    sauce    last,    in- 
stead of  milk.     Makes  2  layers. 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Burkt 


APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE  NO.  2 


V2  cup  butter 


1  cup  sugar 

I  cup  stewed  apples 

1  cup  raisins 

1  lemon  juice  and  rind 

2  cups  flour 

Bake  in  tube  pan  at  350  F.  until  done 


1  egg 

1  teaspoon  soda  (in  apples) 
1  cup  nuts 

1   teaspoon     cinnamon,     nutmeg 
and  cloves 


Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 


MINCEMEAT 

1  lb.  bulk  mincemeat  2  egg  whites  beaten  and  added 

1  cup  nuts  (black  walnut)  last 

1  cup  raisins  1  cup  melted  butter  or  shorten- 

2  egg  yolks  ing 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda  dissolv-     1  cup  sugar 

ed  in  1  tablespoon  hot  water       1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  flour 
Bake  1%  hours. 

Mrs.  L.  M.  Sharpe 


CREAM  CAKE 


V2  cup  sweet  milk 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1^2  cups  flour 


1  cup  sugar 
Y2  cup  butter 
4  egg  whites 

Bake  in  3  layers. 

—  Filling  — 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  yolks 


32 


of  4  eggs,  y2  cup  sugar.     Mix  and  let  cook,  stirring  constantly  until 
thick.     Spread  on  cake  layers. 

Mrs.  D.  C.  Eagle 
Submitted  by  Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 


TOMATO  SOUP  CAKE 
Mix  1  egg  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Add  1  can  Campbell  soup.  Mix 
and  add  V2  cup  of  melted  butter.  Sift  together  and  add  the  following 
to  first  mixture.  2y2  cups  flour,  sifted,  1  te&^poon  soda,  y2  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  cloves.  Next  add  V2  cup  nut  meats  and  V2  cup 
of  raisins.  Bake  in  2  layers.  Put  together  with  1  egg  well  beaten 
and  add  powdered  sugar  to  consistency  you  want. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Carter 
By  a  friend  from  Scotland 


HAWAIIAN  FRESH  COCOANUT  CAKE 

2x/2  cups  sifted  cake  flour  1   cup  milk 

2y2  tsp.  baking  powder  1  tsp.  vanilla 

V2  cup  butter  4  eggs — well  beaten 

2  cups  sugar 

Sift  flour  once,  measure,  add  baking  powder  and  sift  together 
three  times.  Cream  butter  thoroughly,  add  1  cup  sugar  gradually 
and  cream  together  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  remaining  sugar  and 
eggs  and  beat  well.  Add  flour,  alternately  with  milk — a  small  amount 
at  the  time.  Beat  after  each  addition  until  smooth.  Bake  in  three 
10-inch  layer  tins  in  350  dgerees  oven  for  about  20  minutes.  Cool. 
When  baked,  split  each  layer  in  half.  When  cool,  cut  with  very  sharp 
knife  through  center  of  layer — thus  making  two  layers  of  each.  Put 
together  with  cocoanut  cream  custard  (below)  and  cover  sides  with 
boiled  white  frosting.  Then  cover  over  with  thick  inch  coating  of 
freshly  grated  cocoanut. 

—  Filling  — 

Drain  fresh  cocoanut.  Pour  cocoanut  milk  into  measuring  cup. 
Then  fill  balance  of  a  cup  with  cow's  milk.  Add  another  cup  milk  and 
scald  all.  Then  mix  together  y2  cup  sugar  and  2  tba.  cornstarch,  and 
4  yolks  beaten,  */2  tsp.  salt  and  add  this  gradually  to  the  scalded  milk, 
slowly,  stirring  constantly,  cook  together  in  double  boiler,  stirring 
constantly,  until  thickened,  cool  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  When  cold, 
add  1  cup  heavy  cream  whipped,  folding  it  in.  Fill  split  layers  with 
this,  then  cover  cake  heavily  with  boiled  frosting  ae  below. 

—  Frosting  — 
4  egg  whites 

2  cups  sugar     (take  out  4  tablespoons  and  put  in  egg  whites) 
*/2  cup  hot  water 
1/8  teaspoon  cream  tartar 

4  marshmallows  and  pinch  of  salt — in  egg  whites 
2  tablespoons  cold  water  —  in  egg  whites 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  medium  cocoanuts  or  1  large  one 

Make  as  other  boiled  frosting. 

Miss  Effie  Earnhardt 
33 


COCOANUT  LAYER  CAKE 

1  cup  .shortening  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  sugar  Vi  teaspoon  salt 

2  teasj>oons  vanilla  1  cup  milk 

4  eggs,  separated  1  cup  heavy  cream,  whipped 

3  cups  cake  Hour  1  cup  moist  shredded  cocoanut 

Method: — Cream  shortening,  sugar  and  vanilla.  Add  well  beaten 
egg  yolk.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  twice.  Place 
on  top  of  other  mixture.  Add  milk,  and  beat  lightly  to  blend.  Fold 
in  egg  whites  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  three  9-inch  layers  for  25  minutes 
at  350  degrees  F.  When  cool  put  layers  together  and  ice  with  whip- 
ped cream.     Sprinkle   top  generously   with   cocoanut. 

Mrs.  /.  E.  Yountz 


ORANGE  LOAF  CAKE 

2  cups  pastry  flour  1  cup  sugar 
x/->   teaspoon  t'ul  soda                             2  eggs 

Vi  teaspoonful  salt  Grated  rind  of  orange 

Vz   cup   shortening  %  cup  orange  juice 

Cream  shortening  and  add  sugar.  Beat  eggs  very  stiff  and  add. 
Add  rind,  add  juice  and  dry  ingredients  alternately.  Turn  into  greas- 
ed paperlined  pan.     Bake  350  degrees  for  50  minutes. 

—  Icing  — 

3  tablespoons  butter  (creamed).     Add  2  cups  powdered  sugar  gradual- 
ly with  a/4  cup  juice.  Mrs.  Hugh  Mauldin 


APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 
2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

V>  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  cloves 

2   eggs  la/2    teaspoon    soda    mixed    with 

4  cups  flour  l1/?  cup  apple  sauce 

2   teaspoons  cinnamon  1  lb.  raisins 

1V>  cup  nut  meats 

Mix  as  any  other  fruit  cake,  adding  apple  sauce  last  instead  of 
milk.     Flour,  raisins  and  nuts  added  last.  Mrs.  C.  /.  Scruggs 


FUDGE  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  2  egg  yolks 

Y-&  cup  butter  2  squares  chocolate 

1  cup  flour  1  cup  pecan  meats 

Va  cup  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  thoroughly.  Beat  in  egg  yolks.  Add 
flour  and  milk  alternately.  Add  melted  chocolate  and  the  egg  whites 
which  have  been  stiffly  beaten.  Bake  in  oven  350  degrees  for  45 
minutes  to  one  hour.     Cover  with  chocolate  cream  frosting. 

—  Chocolate  Cream  Frosting  — 
1  pkg  Philadelphia  cream  cheese     1/8  teaspoon  salt 
Yi  cup  sweet  milk  1    teaspoon   vanilla 

3  cups  confection  sugar  3  squares  melted  chocolate 

Blend  cheese  ^vith  milk  and  add  sugar  which  has  been  well  sifted. 
Add  salt  and  vanilla  and  melted  chocolate  and  beat  until  smooth. 

Mrs.  R.  C.  Laughlin 
34 


QUICK   DEVIL'S   FOOD   CAKE 

1  egg,  V2  cup  cocoa,  V2  cup  butter,  IV2  cup  flour,  pinch  of  salt, 
V2  CUP  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  sugar, 
l/z  cup  hot  water. 

Put  in  mixing-  bowl  in  the  order  given  and  heat  with  rotary  egg 
beater  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Bake  in  layer  cake  pans  or  as  cup 
cakes. 

Miss  Margaret  Tyson  Jones 


DEVIL  FOOD  CAKE  NO.  2 

2  cups  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

1  cup  butter  3  egg  yolks  and  1  whole  eug 

1   teaspoon  baking  powder  3   cups   flour 

y2  teaspoon  soda  1  cup  buttermilk 

Measure  all  in  mixing  bowl  and  mix  with  electric  mixer  a   tew 
minutes.     Melt  4  squares  baking  chocolate  in  V2  cup  water  and  add 
to  mixture.     Pour  in  three  9-inch  cake  pans  and  bake. 
—  Caramel  Icing  — 
2  cups  brown  sugar  1  cup  white  sugar  1  cup  water 

Boil  until  mixture  threads  when  dropping  from  spoon.  Beat  egg 
whites  stiff,  add  ^/z  fsP-  baking  powder  and  pour  over  egg  whites.  Beat 
until  creamy. 

Mrs.  Sara  Edminston 


DEVILS  FOOD  CAKE  NO.  3 

1  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  soda 

2  cups  sugar  Y-?  cake  melted  chocolate 

2  2/3  cups  flour  1   teaspoon  baking  powder 
5  eggs                                                       1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  buttermilk  Pinch  of  salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  mixing  thor- 
oughly. Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  and  add  to  first  mix- 
ture, alternating  with  milk,  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved. 
Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water  and  add  to  batter.  Add  vanilla  and 
salt.     Bake  in  three  layers  at  350  degrees  F. 

—  Icing  — 

3  cups  sugar  1  cup  boiling  water 

4  egg  whites  Pinch  of  cream  of  tartar 

Dissolve  sugar  thoroughly  in  boiling  water.  Add  cream  of  tar- 
tar and  cook  until  it  spins  a  thread  3  inches  long.  Pour  very  slowly 
onto  stiffly  beaten  eggs  and  beat  until  thick.-  When  cold,  spread  on 
cake. 

Mrs.  Lane  Brown,  Albemarle,  N.  C. 

By  Miss  Mildred  Propst 


35 


DEVILS  FOOD  CAKE  NO.  4 

1  cup  butter  1  cup  buttermilk 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

3  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  soda 

4  eggs 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  1  cup  of  flour,  and  then  eggs,  and 
rest  of  flour.  Dissolve  2  blocks  baker's  chocolate  in  Vfc  cup  boiling 
water     Add  milk  and  then  another  y2  cup  water  and  vanilla. 

—  Filling  — 
1  cup  butter  *     2  cups  sugar 

1   cup  sweet  milk 

Cook  until  a  rolling  boil  and  a  little  thick.  Spread  and  sprinkle 
with  nuts.  Mrs.  Hill  C.  Trexler 


DEVILS  FOOD  CAKE  NO   5 

l/z  cup  butter  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  milk  *4  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  sugar  4  squares  bitter  chocolate 
4  eggs  2y2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  shortening,  add  sugar  gradually  and  egg  yolks  that  have 
been  beaten  until  thick  and  lemon  colored.  Mix  and  sift  dry  in- 
gredients, flour  baking  powder  and  salt  and  add  alternately  with 
milk.  Add  the  egg  whites  beaten  very  stiff,  melted  chocolate  and  va- 
nilla.    Bake  in  moderate  ovin.  350  degrees  F. 

Filling : — Make  a  filling  of  x/%  pound  butter,  one  pound  pulverized 
sugar,  and  cocoa —  as  much  or  as  little  cocoa  as  you  want  to  use. 
—  Chocolate  Icing  — 

3  cups  white  sugar  x/4  tsp.  soda 
Yl  lb.  chocolate  (4  squares)  Va  lb.  butter 
1  cup  Pet  Milk 

Boil  8  minutes  after  it  has  come  to  a  boil.     Stir  constantly. 

Mrs.  Lewis  Hartline 


DEVILS  FOOD  CAKE  NO.  6 

4  eggs  less  two  whites  for  icing     1  teaspoon  soda 

l1 2  cup  flour  1  cup  sour  milk 

V/l  cup  sugar  4  squares  bitter  chocolate 

14  lb.  of  butter 

Melt  chocolate  and  butter  together.  Beat  eggs,  add  sugar.  Add 
flour  and  milk,  then  chocolate  and  butter.  Bake  in  either  layers  or 
loaf  form.     Use  either  7  minute  white  icing  or  Mocha  filling. 

Mrs.  Luther  French 


BLACK  MIDNIGHT  DEVILS  FOOD  CAKE 

V2  cup  shortening  IV2  cup  flour 

lx/4  cup  sugar  x/2  teaspoon  salt 

2  large  eggs  1  teaspoon  soda 

Y2  cup  cpcoa  y%  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  hot  water  or  hot  coffee 

Combine  cocoa  and  hot  water.  Stir  to  dissolve  completely.    Add 

36 


to  creamed  shortening,  sugar  and  eggs  alternately  with  dry  ingredi- 
ents, sifted  together.  Bake  layers  30  to  35  minutes.'  Square  cake 
45  to  55  minutes.     350  degrees  F. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Thornton 

DEVILS  FOOD  CAKE  NO.  7 

1  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  buttermilk  or  sour  milk 
2y2  cups  flour  4  eggs  unbeaten 

1  tbsp.  soda  in  4  tbsps.  hot  water     4  oz.  unsweetened  chocolate 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  well.  Add  eggs  and  flour  with  milk 
alternately.  Add  vanilla  then  soda,  which  has  been  dissolved  in  hot 
water.     Add  hot  melted  chocolate.     Makes  4  large  layers. 

Mrs.  Alvah  Sides 


DEVILS  FOOD  CAKE  NO.  8 

2  cups  white  sugar  3  cups  flour 

1  cup  butter  1  tablespoon  soda 

4  eggs  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

1  cup  buttermilk 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  well.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time  and  beat 
well.  Add  milk,  dissolve  soda  in  4  tablespoons  boiling  water  and 
add  to  the  other  ingredients.  Put  the  flour  in  slowly  and  beat  well. 
Add  cocoa  to  desired  color.  Add  flavoring.  Bake  in  oven  350  de- 
grees.    Makes  4  large  layers. 

—  Filling  — 

2  lbs.  brown  sugar         1  cup  sweet  milk         Add  cocoa  to  desired  color 

Cook  over  low  flame  until  forms  soft  ball.  Add  butter  and  va- 
nilla.    Beat  until  creamy. 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Eagle 


ORANGE  FRUIT  CAKE  — 

%  cup  of  fat  or  butter  Peel  of  one  orange  ground 

1  cup  sugar  14/2  teaspoon  soda 

3  eggs  3  cups  cake  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt  1    teaspoon   vanilla 

1  cup  buttermilk  V/o   cup   dates 

1  cup  pecans 

1.  Sift  dry  ingredients 

2.  Cream  fat  and  sugar,  add  eggs,  beating  well  after  each  addition 

3.  Add  dates,  nuts  and  orange  peel 

4.  Add  sifted  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  liquid 

5.  Turn  into  well-greased  pan 

6.  Bake  in  preheated  oven  temperature  300 — 1H  hours 

7.  When  baked  pour  over  orange  juice   topping.     Allow   to  age  at 
least  24  hours 

—  Topping  — 
14/2  orange  (juice  only).  Grated  rind  of  one  orange,  %  cup  sugar. 
Bring  to  boil  to  melt  sugar  and  pour  over  above  cake. 

Mrs.  Ervin  Lambert 

37 


EGGLESS  AND  BUTTERLESS  CAKE 
2  eups  of  sugar  "Yz  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  of  water  3  teaspoons  cinnamon 

2  teaspoons  lard  1  box  raisins 

Boil  these  ingredients  five  minutes,  cool.  Add  3Vk  cups  flour. 
1  heaping  teaspoon  soda  sifted  with  flour.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
about  an  hour.  1  cup  of  nut  meats  can  be  added,  if  desired,  after 
flour  has  been  added.  Grease  cake  mold,  then  cover  with  wax  paper 
and  gr§ase  paper  well.     Do  not  flour  as  for  most  cakes. 

Mrs.  John  R.  Satterfield 


BROWNIE'S  DELIGHT 
(Date  entered  in  Mrs.  Pennington's  cook  book  December  7,  1900) 
Make  four  layers  rich  white  cake.  Make  a  boiled  icing  from  the 
whites  of  4  eggs  and  4  cups  of  sugar  and  divide  this  into  four  parts. 
Into  the  first  part  stir  1  grated  cocoanut  and  grated  rind  of  one  orange. 
Into  the  second  part  stir  1  cup  English  walnuts,  1  cup  raisins  and  1 
spoonful  melted  chocolate.  Into  the  third  part  1  cup  chopped  al- 
monds and  1  cup  chopped  citron.     Ice  cake  with  the  fourth  part. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Pennington 
Submitted  by  her  daughter,  Mrs.  James  Cooper 


FRUIT  WREATH  CAKE 

(Makes  a  delicious  and  beautiful  Christmas  Cake) 
—  White  Layer  — 
1  2/3  cups  cake  flour  1  cup  sugar 

1%  teaspoons  baking  powder  3/8  cup  milk 

1/8  teaspoon  salt  1  tsp.  lemon  extract 

V2  cup  shortening  3  egg  whites 

Sift  flour,  measure ;  add  baking  powder  and  salt,  sift  again.  Cream 
shortening;  add  sugar  gradually,  continue  to  beat  until  light  and  fluffy. 
Combine  flavoring  with  milk,  add  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with 
dry  ingredients,  beating  after  each  addition.  Fold  in  egg  whites, 
which  have  been  beaten  until  they  are  stiff  but  not  dry.  Pour  batter 
into  a  greased  10-inch  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (375  degrees) 
about  30  minutes. 

—  Rose  Layer  — 

To  make  the  rose  layer  follow  the  recipe  for  the  white  layer,  sub- 
stituting almond  for  lemon  extract.  Tint  the  batter  a  delicate  pink 
with  food  coloring  and  mix  it  well  until  the  coloring  is  evenly  distrib- 
uted. 

—  Gold  Layer  — 
IV2  cups  cake  flour  1  cup  sugar 
IV2   teaspoons  baking  powder         6  egg  yolks 
y±  teaspoon  salt  3/8  cup  milk 

3/8  cup  shortening  1  teaspoon  orange  extract 

Sift  flour,  measure;  add  the  baking  powder  and  salt  and  sift 
again.  Cream  shortening,  add  sugar  gradually;  continue  to  beat  until 
light  and  fluffy.  Add  well-beaten  egg  yolks  to  the  creamed  mixture 
and  blend  well.  Add  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  milk  to  which 
flavoring  has  been  added,  beating  each  addition.  Pour  batter  into 
greased  10-inch  cake  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  (375  degrees) 
about  30  minutes. 

38 


—  Spice  Layer  — 

1  2/3  cup  cake  flour  1/3  cup  shortening 

1*4   teaspoons  baking   powder  %  cup  sugar 

x/4  teaspoon  salt  3  egg  yolks 

y2  teaspoon  cinnamon  2   tablespoons  molasses 

V2  teaspoon  nutmeg  1/3  cup  milk 

J4  teaspoon  cloves  1/8  teaspoon  soda 

V2  teaspoon  all  spice 

Sift  flour,  measure;  add  baking  powder,  salt  and  spices,  sift 
again.  Cream  the  shortening,  add  the  sugar  gradually  and  continue 
to  beat  until  light  and  fluffy;  add  well-beaten  egg  yolks  and  blend 
well.  Combine  the  molasses,  milk  and  soda ;  add  alternately  with  dry 
ingredients  to  the  creamed  mixture,  beating  well  after  each  addition. 
Pour  batter  into  greased  10-inch  cake  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  375  degrees  about  30  minutes. 

—  Mahogany  Laye**  -— 

IV2  CUP  cake  flour  2  eggs 

l1/?   teaspoons   baking  powder  1   teaspoon  vanilla 

a4  teaspoon  salt  2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate 

1/3   cup   shortening  \'2  cup   milk 

1  cup  sugar  Red  food  coloring 

Sift  flour,  measure;  add  baking  powder  and  salt,  sift  again.  Cream 
shortening;  add  sugar  gradually,  continue  to  beat  until  light  and 
fluffy.  Add  beaten  egg  yolks  and  chocolate,  melted,  mix  thoroughly. 
Add  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  milk  to  which  flavoring  has  been 
added,  beating  after  each  addition.  Fold  in  egg  whites  which  have 
been  beaten  stiff  but  not  dry.  To  make  a  reddish  brown  cake  add  a 
little  red  coloring  and  mix  until  evenly  distributed.  Pour  batter  into 
greased  10-inch  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  375  degrees  about 
30  minutes. 

—  Filling  — 

1%  cups  raisins  1   cup  sour  cream 

1%  cups  pi'can  meats  Vi  cup  milk 

31/2  cups  sugar  IV2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  nuts  and  raisins  through  coarse  chopper.  Stir  together 
sugar,  sour  cream  and  milk,  boil,  stirring  to  prevent  scorching,  until 
it  forms  soft  ball  in  cold  water  (232  degrees).  Add  nuts  and  raisins. 
This  will  make  the  syrup  somcAvhat  thinner.  Boil  again,  stirring 
constantly  until  it  again  reaches  the  soft  ball  stage  (232  decrees). 
Remove  from  fire  and  allow  to  cool;  add  vanilla  and  beat  with  spoon 
until  of  consistency  to  spread.     This  amount  will  cover  all  layers. 

—  Frosting  — 

3  egg  whites  1  cup  water 

2^2  cups  sugar  1    teaspoon    vanilla 

2  tablespoons  corn  syrup,  white     Few  grains  salt 

Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  and  add  1  tablespoon  sugar  to  pre- 
vent separating.  Boil  remaining  sugar,  corn  syrup  and  water  with- 
out stirring  until  it  spins  a  long  thread  (240  degrees).  Pour  hot  sy- 
rup slowly  over  egg  whites  beating  constantly;  when  thoroughly 
blended,  remove  beater  and  stir  with  spoon  until  it  will  hold  its  shape 

39 


when  it  is  piled  up  in  the  center  of  the  bowl.  Add  vanilla  and  salt. 
Keep  boiling  wTater  at  hand  and  add  very  small  amounts  if  it  becomes 
necessary  to  prevent  the  frosting  from  getting  too  thick.  Spread 
frosting  first  on  sides  of  cake  working  with  a  broad  knife  or  spatula. 
If  a  smooth  surface  is  preferred,  thin  if  necessary  with  very  small 
amount  of  boiling  water  when  ready  to  spread  top,  or  dip  knife  in 
boiling  water  occasionally  while  spreading. 

—  Wreath  — • 

Make  the  wreath  of  raisins,  angelica  (can  use  citron)  this  for 
the  leaves,  and  glaced  fruits  cut  in  pieces.  The  decoration  will  stick 
firmly  to  top  if  pressed  down  lightly  into  frosting.  To  make  wreath 
stick  around  the  sides,  it  may  be  necessary  to  put  a  drop  of  thick  syrup 
on  each  section  and  press  in  lightly.  The  design  is  simplified  if  it  is 
first  planned  on  paper  or  in  the  inverted  layer  cake  pan.  Use  candied 
cherries,  apricots,  candied  pear  tinted  red,  and  any  other  fruit  that 
makes  the  design  look  like  Christmas  wreath. 

Mrs.   Roy   Bnrdette,   Jr. 


CHERRY  NECTAR  CAKE 

1  cup  shortening  Vi  teaspoon  red  cake  coloring 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

V±  cup  Maraschino  cherry  juice  4   eggs — separated 

4  cups  cake  flour  1  cup  milk 

1 2  cup  Maraschino  cherries  (cut  4    teaspoons    baking    powder 

fine)  V2  cup  broken  nut  meats 

Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff,  but  not  dry,  gradually  adding  V2  CUP 
sugar  as  for  making  a  meringue.  Blend  shortening,  salt  and  remain- 
ing sugar,  sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together.  Add  well  beaten 
egg  yolks  to  shortening  mixture.  Add  cake  coloring  to  cherry  juice 
and  milk.  Add  alternately  with  the  flour  and  blend  well  after  each 
addition.  Add  flour  last  for  a  fine  textured  cake  Fold  in  cherries 
and  nuts.  Bake  in  three  9-inch  layer  cake  pans  in  moderate  oven 
350  degrees  for  30  to  35  minutes.     Frost  with  seven  minute  frosting. 

Miss  Thelma  Gilliean 


SAND  TARTS 

1  lb.  butter  2  lbs.  flour 

2  lbs.  sugar  3  eggs   (whole)   slightly  beaten 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar.  Cream  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add 
flour  and  mix  until  like  pie  crust,  and  then  add  beaten  eggs.  Knead 
about  ten  minutes.  Let  stand  in  refrigerator  a  few  hours  before  roll- 
ing. Roll  between  sheets  of  wax  paper.  Cookies  should  be  very  thin. 
Use  medium  hot  oven.  Watch  carefully.  Do  not  let  them  brown. 
After  cookies  are  placed  on  baking  sheet,  lightly  brush  top  with 
beaten  whole  egg  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  If  you  prefer  colored 
sugar,  add  few  drops  of  cake  coloring  to  white  sugar.  Mix  and  let 
stand  a  few  minutes  to  dry  before  using.     Makes  250  cookies. 

Mn.  C.  C.  Holt 
40 


ALMOND  MACAROONS 

2  eggs  V2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  brown  sugar  XA  tsp.  salt 

l/2  CUp  flour  1    cup    blanched    almonds 

Beat  eggs  slightly  and  add  brown  sugar.  Add  sifted  dry  in- 
gredients. Add  almonds  cut  in  small  pieces.  Bake  in  15  minutes 
in  buttered  pans.     Moderate  oven.  Mrs.  Roy  Bnrdette,  Jr. 

\y  CARAMEL  SQUARES 

2  eggs  1  cup  brown  sugar 
a/4  cup  butter  1   cup  flour 

1    teaspoon    baking    powder  V2  teaspoon  vanilla 

1    eup    broken    nuts 

Melt  butter  and  then  add  sugar.  Allow  to  cool.  Beat  in  eggs 
one  at  a  time.  Fold  in  flour  and  bakin»  powder.  Add  nuts  and  va- 
nilla.    Bake  in  shallow  pan,  greased.  375  degrees,  25  to  30  minutes. 

Mrs.   Mildred  Seaber 


PINEAPPLE  COOKIES 


y2  cup  butter  1/2   cup   white   sugar 

y2  cup  brown   sugar  1  egg 

y2  cup  crushed  pineapple  drained 

Add  to  this  mixture : 
1   teaspoon   vanilla  l3/4   cup  flour 

1    teaspoon    baking   powder  x/\  teaspoon  soda 

1    teaspoon      salt 

Bake  on  greased  cookie  sheet,  350  degrees,  until  slightly  brown 
around  edges.  Mrs.   Milton  Gosney 


CHRISTMAS  CAKES 

2  cups  sugar  1   cup   butter 

2   cups   hot  water  1   teaspoon  cinnamon 

1   teaspoon  cloves  2  cups  raisins 

1  cup  nuts 

Cook  the  above  ingredients  3  minutes  after  it  begins  to  boil.  Al- 
low to  cool.  Sift  4  cups  flour  and  2  teaspoons  of  soda  together  and 
add  to  cooled  mixture.  Mix  well.  Bake  in  muffin  tins  in  moderate 
oven.  Mrs.  Lester  Slate 


ORANGE  FRUIT  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  butter 

2  eggs  V2  cup  chopped  nuts 
1  cup  chopped  dates                            2/3  cup  buttermilk 

1  teaspoon  soda  2  cups  flour 

Pinch  of  salt  1  tbsp.  grated  orange  rind 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  milk  and  flour,  small  amount  each 
time,  add  eggs  unbeaten.  Add  nuts  and  dates  last.  Bake  on  large 
baking  sheet.     Top  with  the  following: 

1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  orange  juice,  2  tablespoons  grated  orange  rind. 
Mix  sugar,  juice  and  orange,  cook  until  thick.     Spread  on  warm  cakes. 

Mrs.   Sara   Edminsfon 
41 


ORANGE  CUP  CAKES 

Yz  cup  butter  1  cup  sugar 

Grated  rind  of  1  large  orange         Yl   cup  seedless A raisins 

2   eggs  2  cups  flour 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2/3  cup  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  orange  peel,  add  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
beating  well  after  each  addition.  Add  alternately  the  flour,  sifted 
several  times  with  salt  added,  sour  milk,  soda,  vanilla,  raisins,  and 
baking  powder  last.  Bake  in  small  cup  cakes.  When  done,  take  from 
oven  and  put  the  following  mixture  over  cup  cakes  while  hot : 

Yz  cup  sugar,  1/3  cup  orange  juice.     Cook  until  thick. 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Burke 


OATMEAL  COOKIES 


Yz  CUP  shortening  V/2  cup  flour 

1  cup  sugar  1   teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs  x/2  teaspoon  salt 

Yz  cup  water  Yi   teaspoon  cinnamon 

2   cups   oatmeal  Yz   teaspoon  nutmeg 

1    cup  raisins 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  eggs.  Add  water,  oatmeal  and 
raisins.  Add  flour  and  other  dry  ingredients.  Drop  by  spoonfuls 
far  apart  on  pan.     Bake  as  usual. 

Mrs.   Burt  C.   Miller 


YUM  YUM  GEMS 


Yz  cup  Crisco  1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  egg'  1  cup  sour  milk 

1   teaspoon   cinnamon  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  teaspoon  cloves  1  cup  raisins 

2  cups  flour  1    teaspoon   soda 

Blend  together  sugar,  Crisco  and  egg,  add  sour  milk.  Stir  in 
flour  and  spices.  Add  soda,  then  raisins.  Bake  in  muffin  tins  in 
moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  L.  Mowery 


BROWN  SUGAR  COOKIES 

1*2  cups  brown  sugar  3  cups  flour 

1  cup  butter  3  eggs 

1  cup  nuls  1  cup  raisins 

1  teaspoon  allspice  1   teaspoon  cinnamon 

1i  teaspoon  cloves 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs,  well  beaten.  Sift  dry  ingredi- 
ents together  and  dredge  nuts  and  raisins  in  dry  ingredients,  then 
mix  with  butter,  sugar  and  eggs.  Drop  with  teaspoon  on  greased 
cookie  sheet. 

Mrs.  f.  M.  Moore 
42 


PINEAPPLE  DROP  COOKIES 

2/3  cup  shortening  1  cup  brown  sugar,  firmly  packed 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  2  cups  sifted  Hour 

1  egg,  well  beaten  1  cup     crushed     pineapple,     un- 

2V2  teaspoons  baking  powder  drained 

1  cup  rolled  oats  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1    teaspoon   salt 

Blend  shortening,  salt  and  vanilla.  Add  brown  sugar  gradually 
and  cream  well.  Add  egg  and  mix  well.  Sift  Hour  with  baking  pow- 
der. Add  flour  mixture,  alternately  with  pineapple,  mixing  well  after 
each  addition.  Add  rolled  oats  and  nuts;  blend.  Drop  from  table- 
spoon on  greased  baking  sheet.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  350  degrees. 
Makes  4x/2  dozen. 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Hughes 


HONEY  DROPS 


V±  cup  fat  V2  CUP  honey 

1   egg  1  cup  rolled  oats 

1   tablespoon   milk  1  cup  sifted  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  V2  teaspoon  salt 

Yi   teaspoon   cinnamon  x/2  CUP  chopped  raisins 

Cream  fat  and  honey  together.  Add  egg  and  beat  until  blended. 
Stir  in  rolled  oats  and  milk.  Sift  dry  ingredients,  add  with  raisins 
and  mix  well.  Drop  from  teaspoon  onto  greased  baking  sheet.  Bake 
in  moderately  hot  oven  (400  degrees)  18  to  20  minutes.  Makes  2^4 
dozen. 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Hughes 


CHINESE  CHEWS 
Mix  as  given : 
%  cup  flour  1    teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  V±  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  chopped  dates  2  eggs,  beaten 

1    cup   nuts 

Mix  good.     Spread   in   a  thin   layer,   bake.     When   done   cut   in 
squares  and  press  into  balls.     While  still  hot  roll  in  granulated  sugar. 

Mrs.  M.  T.  Owen 


BLACK  WALNUT  COOKIES 

1%  cup  butter  1  lb.  brown  sugar 

Vi  cup  granulated  sugar  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  1  tsp.  black  walnut  extract 

IV2  cup  black  walnuts  l\'->  cup  shredded  cocoanut 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  1  teaspoon  of  salt 

Vo  teaspoon  soda  6  cups  sifted   flour 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually.  Add  eggs  and  extract,  grind 
nuts  and  cocoanut  together  in  food  chopper.  Add  all  of  this  to- 
gether, sift  dry  ingredients,  add  last.  Shape  in  rolls,  wrap  in  wax 
sheet,  place  in  refrigerator  until  chilled.  Slice  thin  and  bake  375 
degrees,  10  to  12  min.     Bakes  125  cookies. 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Hughes 
43 


TASTY  SUGAR  COOKIES 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  one 
teaspoon  of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of  ground  cinnamon.  Add  enough 
flour  to  make  dough  about  like  pie  crust,  put  in  ice  box  and  chill 
thoroughly.  Roll  very  thin,  sprinkle  sugar  over  and  cut  with  biscuit 
cutter  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Connell 


ENGLISH  JAM  CAKE 

%  cup  butter  1  teaspoonful  nutmeg 

1  cup  sugar  ^2  cup  milk 
3  eggs  V2  cup  jam 

2  cups  flour  ^2  cup  raisins  (if  desired) 
1  teaspoonful  soda 

1   teaspoonful   cinnamon 

Mix  ingredients  and  bake  in  flat  pan  or  as  cup  cakes  if  desired. 

Mrs.  Blanche  Kennerly 


DATE  STICKS 

1  cup  flour  1  eup  sugar 

1  teaspoonful   baking  powder          2  cups  sliced   pitted  dates 
V'l  teaspoonful  salt  V2  CUP  broken  nutmeats 

2  eggs  1  tablespoonful  hot  water 
1  tbsp.  melted  butter 

Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt.  Beat  eggs  until 
light,  gradually  adding  sugar,  then  pour  in  butter  and  add  dates  and 
nuts.  Finally  work  in  sifted  mixture.  Pour  in  buttered  pan.  Bake 
in  slow  oven.     Cut  in  strips.     Roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Mrs.    Hugh    Mauldin 


BANANA  CUP-CAKES 


V2  CUP  shortening  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

IV2  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  soda 

2  beaten  eggs  V2  euP  sour  milk 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  mashed,  sieved  bananas 

V2  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Thoroughly  cream  shortening  and  sugar;  add  eggs  and  beat  well. 
Add  sifted  ingredients  alternately  with  sour  milk,  banana  and  va- 
nilla. Fill  cupcake  pans  half  full.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (350 
degrees)  about  20  minutes.     This  makes  about  2x/2  dozen. 

Mrs.  Joe  Shulenherger 


OLD  FASHIONED  COOKIES 

\'->  cup  shortening  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1    cup   sugar  \x/i  cup  flour 

Pinch  of  nutmeg  y2  teaspoon  soda 

1   egg   well   beaten  V2  teaspoon  salt 

Drop  by  spoonsful  on  greased  cookie  sheet  or  roll  and  cut.     Cook 
10  minutes  at  375  degrees. 

Mrs.  foe  L.  Wright 
44 


CRISP  FRUIT  OR  NUT  COOKIES 

y2  cup  Crisco     or     other     good     1  cup  flour 

shortening  1   tsp.   vanilla 

1  cup  brown  sugar  Vi  tsp.  soda 

1  ego-  V-i  tsp.  salt 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar,  add  unbeaten  egg,  cream  good.  Flour, 
salt  and  sugar  sifted  together  and  added,  then  add  V>  cup  dry  mince 
meat  cut  fine  or  l/o  cup  nuts.  Drop  with  teaspoon  on  greased  baking 
sheet  about  12  to  a  baking  sheet  and  bake  at  375  for  about  12  or  15 
minutes.     Let  cool  for  a  few  minutes  before  taking  off  baking  sheet. 

Mrs.  Will  Eagle 


BROWNIES 

2  squares  of  chocolate  2   eggs 

Y2  cup  butter  2/3   cup  nuts 

1  cup  sugar  1   teaspoon  vanilla 

y/2  cup  flour 

Melt  chocolate  and  butter  and  let  cool.     Beat  eggs — add  sugar, 

flour,  nuts,   and   vanilla — then  chocolate   mixture.     Bake   in   a    slow 
oven  from  30  to  40  minutes. 

Mrs.  Joe  L.  Wright 


BROWNIES 

Beat  two  eggs,   (whites  and  yellows) 

Add  one  cup  of  sugar 

Add  one  cup  of  flour 

Melt  2  squares  of  Baker's  Chocolate  in  x/o  cup  of  Nucoa  or  Crisco 

Add  one  small  can  of  cocoanut  (without  the  milk) 

Add  one  cup  chopped  pecans 

Bake  in  a  well-greased  pan  in  slow  oven  20  to  25  minutes.     Cut 
in  squares  while  hot. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Eagan 


CHOCOLATE  BROWNIES 

1  cup  all-purpose  flour,  sifted 

34  teaspoon  Calumet  baking  powder 
94  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs 

1  cup  sugar 

2/3  cup  Jewel  Oil  or  melted  shortening 

2  squares  of  unsweetened  chocolate,  melted  and  cooled 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Vz  cup  of  coarsely  chopped  nuts 

Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  salt.  Beat  eggs  well,  add 
sugar  gradually.  Mix  in  Jewel  Oil  or  melted  shortening,  chocolate, 
vanilla.  Add  flour  all  at  once.  Mix  well.  Stir  in  nuts.  Turn  bat- 
ter into  7x11  inch  pan  greased  well  with  Jewel  Oil.  Bake  in  moder- 
ate oven  (350  F.)  about  20  minutes.  Cool  for  5  minutes  before  turn- 
ing out  of  pan.     Cut  into  squares.     Makes  15. 

Hazel  L.  Rosemond , 
45 


ORANGE  DATE  BARS 

Yi  cup  butter  1  cup  pecans  or  black  walnuts 

3  eggs  1    cup  granulated    sugar 

1  teaspoonful  baking  powder  1  cup  Hour 

V-i  cup  finely     chopped     candied     1  teaspoonful  vanilla 
orange  peel  1   package  dates 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  in  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Stir  in 
flour  and  baking  powder.  Add  nuts,  dates,  orange  peel,  and  vanilla. 
Bake  in  shallow  pan  at  375  degrees  for  25  to  30  minutes.  When  cool 
roll  in  powdered  sugar.  Mrs.  Mildred  Seaber 


CHRISTMAS  COOKIES     (Moravian) 

1  quart  molasses  %  lb.  light  brown  sugar 
14  lb.  butter  V2  lb.  lard 

%  lb.  flour  2    tablespoons    cinnamon 

2  tablespoons  cloves  2  tablespoons  ginger 
Wine   glass   brandy   flavoring  Juice  of  one  orange 
5  level  tablespoons  soda 

Rub  butter,  sugar  and  flour  together,  then  add  all  other  ingredi- 
ents. Dissolve  soda  in  little  buttermilk  and  put  in  last.  Thicken 
enough  to  roll  out  very  thin.  Mrs.  Luther  French 


MORAVIAN  COOKIES 


1  quart  dark   molasses  V2     CUP     mixed     spices — cloves, 

12  ozs.  brown  sugar  cinnamon,  ginger 

V2  tsp.   soda   dissolved  in     little     12  ozs.  shortening 
vinegar  2  lbs.  plain  flour 

Mix  shortening,  sugar,  molasses  and  other  ingredients.  Work 
until  dough  is  firm  and  glazed.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Roll  on  board 
covered  with  cloth.     Cut  and  bake  in  medium  oven. 

Mrs.  S.  A.  Foltz 


DATE  STICKS 


3  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

1   cup  dates  1  cup  nuts 

'J.   teaspoons   baking  powder  l1/*-  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  and  mix  in  flour.  Add  other  ingredients. 
Bake  in  a  greased  baking  sheet  in  a  moderate  oven  350  degrees  about 
30  minutes.     Cut  in  strips,  sprinkle  with  white  sugar  while  hot. 

Mrs.  /.  A.  Cooke 


Zk  cup    flour  0LD  FASHION  GINGER  SNAPS 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  ginger 

1  cup  sugar  3  tsp.  soda 

1  cup  molasses  1  cup  butter  or  lard 

Mix  together  and  roll  on  floured  board  as  thin  as  you  can  roll  it 
and  then  cut  into  fancy  shapes  and  bake  in  350  degree  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Pennington 
Submitted  by  Mrs.  James  Cooper,  her  daughter 

46 


OLD  FASHIONED  SUGAR  COOKIES 

1    cup    shortening  2    eggs,    beaten 

1    cup   sour   cream  1    teaspoon    vanilla 

1    cup    sugar  ]    teaspoon  soda 

5   cups   cake    flour  2    teaspoons    baking   powder 

y%  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  and  vanilla  to  sour 
cream.  Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  soda,  add  alter- 
nately with  the  liquid  to  the  shortening  and  sugar  mixture.  Chill. 
Roll  on  cloth  covered  board  about  x/±  inch  thick.  Sprinkle  with  sugar 
and  press  in  lightly  with  rolling  pin.  Cut  with  large  cutter  and  bake 
in  moderately  hot  oven. 

Miss  Annie  Shuping 


DATE  NUT  COOKIES 


1  cup  butter  2  eggs 

2  cups  sugar  1   cup  dates 
1  cup  nuts                                             2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  scant  teaspoon  soda 

^4  cup  cocoa 

Mix  as  cake  batter,  bake  and  cut  in  squares. 

Mrs.  Robert  P.  Lemmon 


CORNFLAKE  MACAROONS 

2  egg  whites  1   cup  sugar 

3  cups  cornflakes  1  cup  nut  meats 

Beat  egg  whites,  add  sugar  gradually,  then  cornflakes  and  nut 
meats.  Mix  well.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  a  cookie  sheet,  covered 
with  wax  paper.  Bake  until  light  brown,  about  15  or  20  minutes. 
When  taken  from  the  cookie  sheet  if  paper  is  slipped  onto  a  wet 
towel  the  cookies  can  be  removed  easily.  Makes  about  3^2  dozen. 
Have  oven  375  degrees. 

Mrs.   Walter  Carter 


SPOON  CRULLERS 

2  tablespoons  each  of  lard,  sugar,  and  milk,  add  2  eg^s  well  beaten, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  flour  enough  to  roll,  cut  any  shape  and 
fry  in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 


FUDGE   CAKES 


V2  cup  butter  2  cups  sugar 

3  eggs  1  small  cake  of  chocolate 

\x/'2.  cups  flour  \<4  teaspoon  soda 

1  small  package  pecans 

Combine  like  any  other  cake  and  bake  in  sheet  pan.     When  still 
warm  cut  in  squares.     Bake  325  degrees  25  to  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  Murray  Wagner 

47 


NUT  MACAROONS 

2  egg  whites  %  lb.  powdered  sugar 

V2  tablespoon  flour  Pinch  of  salt 

^2  lb.  chopped  nuts 

Beat  the  white  very  stiff,  stir  in  the  sugar,  flour  and  salt,  last  the 
nuts.  With  wet  hands,  roll  the  mixture  into  small  balls  and  bake  on 
buttered  paper. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 


BUTTER  SCOTCH  COOKIES 

4  cups  light  brown  sugar  1  cup  butter 

4  eggs  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

1  scant  tahlespoon  soda  1  tablespoon  cream  of  tartar 

7  cups  floyr  1   cup  chopped  nuts 

Sift  flour,  cream  tartar  and  soda  three  times.  Mix  with  other 
ingredients.  Put  in  ice  box.  When  cold  cut  as  desired.  One-half 
recipe  is  enough  for  small  family. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 


CUP  CAKES 


IV2  sticks  of  butter  V2    teaspoon   each— nutmeg,   cin- 

5  eggs  namon  and  cloves 

1  cup  nuts  2  cups  sugar 

1    cup    diced    watermelon    pickle      1   cup  milk 

or  crystallized  fruit  1  cup  raisins  or  cocoanut 

3   cups  flour  3   teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually.  Beat  in  eggs  one  at  a  time. 
Add  milk  and  flour  (all  dry  ingredients  sifted  with  it),  alternately, 
boating  well.  Add  nuts,  raisins  and  etc.,  last  and  bake  in  muffin 
tins.     .'525  degrees. 

Mrs.  Earl  Clapp 


GINGER  SNAPS 


1   pt.   molasses  1  cup  lard 

1   tablespoon  soda  1  teaspoon  ginger 

1    tablespoon   cinnamon 

Boil  molasses  five  minutes,  remove  from  fire  add  lard,  soda,  gin- 
ger and  cinnamon.  Stir  well.  Let  cool,  add  enough  flour  to  make  a 
stiff  dough.  Roll  out  on  covered  dough  board,  thin  and  cut.  Bake 
in  moderately  hot  oven.  Miss  Ida  Shuping 


ICE  BOX  COOKIES 

1  cup  white  sugar  1  cup  brown  sugar 

.')  eggs,  well  beaten  2   teaspoons   soda 

1   cup  chopped  nuts  5  cups  flour  (sifted  twice) 

1  teaspoon  flavoring  1],  2  cup  shortening 

Cream  sugar  and  shortening,  add  eggs  slowly.  After  beating 
well  add  nuts.  Then  add  all  dry  ingredients.  Mix  well  and  roll  in 
small  long  roll.  Wrap  in  wax  paper.  Put  in  refrigerator,  cut  when 
"wanted  in  thin  slices.     Keeps  three  or  four  weeks  in  refrigerator. 

Miss  Annie  Laurie  Felker 
48 


PEANUT  BUTTER  COOKIES 

1  cup  shortening  1  cup  white  sugar 

1  cup  brown  sugar  3  cups  flour 

2  eggs  IV2  teaspoon  soda 
y2  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  cup  peanut  butter 

Add  sugar  to  shortening  and  mix  well.  Add  eggs,  soda,  salt,  va- 
nilla, peanut  butter  and  flour.  Pinch  off  very  small  pieces  of  dough 
and  roll  like  a  marble.  Put  on  cookie  sheet  and  criss-cross  the  cookies 
with  a  fork  that  has  been  dipped  in  {-old  water.  Bake  in  medium  oven 
until  light  brown.     This  makes  about  150  cookies. 

Mrs.  Viola  Kestler 


WALNUT  SLICES 

Mix  one-half  cup  butter  with  one  cup  flour  until  smooth.  Put 
in  9  x  12  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown.  Then  beat 
two  eggs  light,  add  gradually  one  and  one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar. 
Beat  until  light.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour  with  one  quarter  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  one-half  cup  cocoanut,  one-half  cup  chopped 
black  walnuts,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Spread  this  mixture  over  baking 
crust  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  20  minutes.  This  may  be  used 
plain  or  topped  with  confectionery  sugar  icing. 

Mrs.  Burt  C.  Miller 


OLD  FASHIONED  TEA  CAKES 

2  eggs  y<z  cup  buttermilk 

2/3  cup  shortening  IV2  cup  sugar 

1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  pow-     1  teaspoon  salt 

der  1    teaspoon    soda 

Flour    enough    to    make    a    stiff     1  teaspoon  vanilla 

batter 
Cream  sugar  and  shortening,  add  beaten  eggs.  Mix  alternately, 
buttermilk  with  soda  and  vanilla  stirred  with  it  and  one  cup  flour 
which  has  been  sifted  with  baking  powder  and  salt.  Then  add  enough 
sifted  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Roll  out,  cut  and  bake,  in  oven  pre- 
heated to  375  degrees.  This  batter  may  be  covered  and  stored  in  re- 
frigerator for  two  or  three  days. 

Mrs.  F.  S.  Cain 


FASTNACHTS 

4  cups  flour  1/3  cup  sugar 

%.  cup  sweet  milk  3  tablespoons  lard 

3  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  «alt  Nutmeg 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar  together.  Then  break 
in  eggs,  mix  in  lard  and  milk.  Roll  a  little  thicker  than  pie  crust. 
Make  squares  as  large  as  you  like,  cut  strips,  five  or  six,  not  all  the 
Avay  through  square.  Fry  in  deep  fat  until  brown.  Drain  and  sprin- 
kle with  sugar.  Miss  Ida  Shuping 

49 


CINNAMON  STICKS 

Use  a  two-day-old  unsliced  bread,  cut  off  crust  and  cut  bread 
into  oblonu'  pieces  about  an  inch  thick  and  an  inch  Jong.  Melt  V2  lb. 
butter  and  dip  bread  lightly  in  butter.  Use  V2  lb.  brown  sugar  and 
some  cinnamon  mixed  in  another  pan.  Dip  buttered  bread  in  sugar 
and  cinnamon.  Lay  on  cookie  sheet  and  toast  in  hot  oven  about  five 
minutes.  Watch  it  carefully  until  light  brown.  Then  dip  lightly  in 
powdered  sugar  and  serve  with  a  salad,  tea  or  coffee. 

Mn.  Viola  Kestler 


BANANA  CUP  CAKES 

V2  cup  shortening  2   cups  flour 

1  cup    sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs  y2  cup  nuts 

3  ripe  bananas    (crushed) 

Mix  in  the  order  given  and  bake  in  cup  cake  shells  or  in  greased 
loaf  pan  at  350  degrees  for  40  minutes.  Mrs.   O.   C.   Godfrey 


RICH  CINNAMON  BUNS 


%  cup  Karo  syrup  %  cup  butter 

\'i  cup  brown  sugar  3  cups  sifted  flour 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  1    teaspoon   salt 

\-2  cup  shortening  1  cup  milk 

Place  syrup,  butter  and  sugar  in  a  sauce  pan,  bring  to  a  boil  over 
a  medium  heat.  Boil  one  minute.  Pour  in  two  9-ineh  square  cake 
pans.  Mix  and  sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  cut  in  shortening. 
Add  milk  to  make  dough.  Roll  in  rectangular  Vi  inch  thick.  Spread 
with  raisin  nut  filling.  Roll  as  for  jelly  roll.  Cut  into  1  inch  slices 
and  place  cut  side  up  in  syrup.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  375  degrees 
45  minutes.  Let  stand  in  pan  about  2  minutes.  Invert  pan  to  remove 
buns.     Makes  16.  Mrs.  E.  P.  Hughes 


RAISIN  NUT  FILLING 

Vi  cup  Karo  syrup  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Spread  over  surface  of  dough.     Sprinkle  with  V4  cup  brown  sugar, 
2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  V2  cup  raisins  and  y2  cup  chopped  nut  meats. 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Hughes 


CUP  CAKES 


Beat  three  eggs,  iy2  cup  of  sugar,  beat  together  with  egg  beater. 
Add  iy>  cup  of  flour,  *4  cup  creamery  butter  melted  in  %  cup  of 
milk.  This  can  be  hot,  mix  well.  Add  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  and 
flavoring.     This  will  be  a  thin  batter.  Mrs.  John  R.  Satterfield 


DANISH  PASTRIES 
Vo  cup  butter  1  cup  nuts 

2   tablespoons  sugar  l1/^  cup  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  flour  and  nuts.  Break  off  little 
pieces  size  of  a  date  or  a  little  larger  if  preferred.  Shape  in  crescents. 
Bake  350  degrees  until  brown.  Roll  in  powdered  sugar  while  still 
warm.  Mrs.   Worth   Waller 

50 


FROSTINGrS  AND  FILLINGS 


FLUFFY  FROSTING 

1  cup  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

1  egg  white  Vk  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

x/2  cup  boiling  water 

Put  sugar  in  bowl,  add  egg  white,  salt,  and  cream  of  tartar.  Start 
beater  and  pour  in  boiling  water.  Beat  for  10  minutes  or  until  it 
stands  in  peaks. 

Mrs.  Price  Surratt 


LEMON  CAKE  FILLING 

1   egg   Welt       beaten  Butter  the  size  of  a  small  walnut 

1  cup  sugar  Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon 

3/2  cup  water  1    tablespoon  Hour 

Mix  well  and  cook  until  thick.     Add  lemon' and  spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 


ORANGE  FROSTING 
2  tablespoons  butter  1    teaspoon  lemon  juice 

IY-2  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  grated  orange  rind 

x4  cup  orange  juice  2   egg  yolks   unbeaten 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  then  add  orange  rind,  juice,  and 
lemon  juice  and  egg  yolks.  Stir  well  then  put  bowl  in  pan  of  ice 
water  and  beat  about  3  minutes.  If  then  frosting  is  not  quite  the 
consistency  to  spread  add  more  sugar  and  beat  until  blended.  The 
amount  of  sugar  depends  on  the  size  of  the  egg  yolks.  Sometimes 
more  is  necessary  than  others.  This  may  be  varied  by  using  lemon 
rind  and  Vi  cup  milk  instead  of  orange  juice  and  rind. 

Mrs.  Currie  Cafes,  Jr. 


LEMON  CHEESE  ICING 

1/3  cup  butter  Grated   rind   and    strained    juice 

V2  cup  sugar  of  2  lemons 

2  large  eggs 

Put  butter,  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  rind  in  the  inner  vessel  of  a 
double  boiler  and  beat  over  hot  water.  When  thoroughly  beaten  add 
the  eggs  well  beaten  and  stir  until  the  mixture  thickens.  Let  cool.  Put 
this  between  layers  and  cover  top  and  sides  with  caramel  icing.  (This 
makes  enough  to  put  between  2  layers). 

Mrs.  F.  S.  Cain 


51 


ONE  MINUTE  ICING 

1  cup  cocoa  2  cups  sugar 

V2  cup  butter  Salt 

V-2  <?UP  Hiilk 

Combine   ingredients   and   boil   together   for   one   minute.     Beat 
until  creamy  enough  to  spread. 

Mrs.  L.  D.  Perkins 


APPLE  LEMON  CHEESE  FILLING 

1   very   large   or  2   medium   size     1  cup  sugar 

apples  grated  1  egg 

1  lemon  (juice  and  grated  rind)      Butter  size  of  walnut 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  well.  Put  in  double  boiler  (or  over 
direct  heat  and  stir  constantly — scorches  quickly).  Cook  until  thick 
and  transparent.  Let  cool  and  spread.  This  is  delicious  used  as  fill- 
ing for  plain  layer  cake  topped  with  caramel  icing. 

Mrs.  Robert  P.  Lemmon 


CARAMEL  ICING     (Never  fails) 

2  cups  brown  sugar  V2  CUP  butter  or  substitute 

5   tablespoons'  cream   or   milk 

Mix  well  and  boil  for  2  minutes  after  it  comes  slowly  to  a  boil. 
Take  off  of  fire  and  add  Vfc  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  xfo  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Beat  well  until  smooth  and  creamy.  (Double  recipe 
for  larger  cake). 

Mrs.  Carl  Spencer,  Jr. 


CARAMEL  FILLING 


2  cups  of  brown  sugar  Pinch  of  soda 

1  cup  of  white  sugar  V2  cup  of  butter — or  more 

1  cup  of  milk  (top  milk  or  cream)    1    teaspoon   vanilla 

Cook  sugar,  milk  and  soda  slowly  until  soft  ball  will  form,  cook 
on  low  heat,  stir.  It  takes  15  or  20  minutes — after  it  reaches  a  good 
boil.  Just  before  removing  from  stove  add  butter  and  vanilla  and 
beat  until  thick  enough  to  spread.  If  it  gets  too  thick,  add  cream  to 
the  mixture. 

(This  is  an  old  family  recipe) 

Mrs.  Luther  French 

FILLING  FOR  DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 

Put  tablespoon  butter  in  pan,  melt,  add  8  tablespoons  evaporated 
milk,  undiluted,  and  heat.  (Not  boil).  Sift  in  1  box  powdered  sugar 
and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Mix  well  and  add  3  ozs.  hot  melted  choco- 
late.    Beat  until  cool  and  spread. 

Mrs.  Alvah  Sides 


52 


PINEAPPLE  FILLING 

1  No.  2  can  crushed  pineapple         2  Egg  yolks 

2  cups  sugar  2  tablespoons  flour 

Dissolve  sugar  with  one  cup  pineapple  juice  and  cook  together 
until  it  wiJl  spin  a  thread.  Rub  egg  yolks  and  flour  into  a  paste,  mix 
v/ith  pineapple  thoroughly,  gradually  add  the  syrup— return  to  stove 
and  cook  until  thick.     Spread  between  layers  and  cover  with  icing. 


ICING 

l1/^  cup  sugar  2  eg»-  whites  beaten 

4   tablespoons   white  syrup  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  water 

Boil  sugar,  syrup  and  water  together  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in 
water.  Pour  slowly  over  egg  whites,  beating  constantly.  Spread 
before  it  becomes  firm. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Wagner 


53 


CANDY 

•All  that's  sweet  was  made  but  to  be  lost  when  sweetest."  —  Moore 


DIVINITY 

4  cups  sugar  I  egg  whites 

1   cup   boiling    water  2  cups  nut-meats  or  cut-up  eher- 

1   cup  white  corn  syrup  ries 

Boil  sugar,  syrup  and  water  until  balls  are  formed  when  dropped 
in  cold  water.  Pour  egg-whites  over  this  and  beat  until  nearly  tirin. 
Add  nuts  or  fruit  and  drop  by  spoonful  on  greased  platter. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Mauldin 


CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 


2   cups    white    sugar  3  ounces  (sq.)  chocolate 

1  cup  brown  sugar  l\->  cup  rich   top  milk 

y~i  CUP  Kai'o  syrup  Pinch  of  salt 

Cook  until  it  forms  firm  ball  in  water.  Add  !4  pound  butter  and 
1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Let  cool.  Add  nuts  if  desired  and  beat  un'al 
very  thick  and  then  pour  or  drop  into  balls  on  oiled  paper. 

Mrs.  Earl  Clapp 


CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 


(Easy  for  children  to  make) 
1  small  can  evaporated  milk  in  pan 
Mis  together:     2  cups  sugar;  J^  L'UP  °f  cocoa 

Add  sugar  and  cocoa  mixture  to  milk  and  mix  well.  Cook  on 
high  speed  stirring  all  the  time.  When  it  smacks,  test  drop  in  cold 
water,  if  it  is  firm  when  pushed  with  ringer  set  the  fudge  pan  in  dish- 
pan  of  cold  water  to  cool,  but  do  not  stir  while  cooling.  Butter  small 
pie  pan  or  dish.  When  candy  is  cool,  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  beat 
until  very  stiff  and  it  starts  to  lose  its  shine.  Pour  into  dish  and 
cut  in  squares. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Hackett 


PENUCHE 

2   cups   brown    siiuar  1   tablespoon  butter 

1    cup  granulated  suuar  Pinch  of  salt 

1    cup   canned    milk  1   teaspoon   vanilla 

Cook  over  slow  fire,  stirring  constantly  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball 
when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  tire,  add  1  tablespoon 
butter  and  let  mixture  stand  until  lukewarm.  Add  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
and  pinch  of  salt.     Beat  until  creamy. 

Mrs.   Err  in  Lam  pert 

54 


MINTS 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  water  V2  stick  butter 

Let  sugar  and  water  come  to  a  boil,  add  butter  and  cook  until 
hard  ball  will  form  in  water  or  until  clinks  against  a  cup.  Pour  on 
marble  slab — let  stand  until  cool  enough  to  pull.  Cut  into  desired 
pieces. 

Mrs.   G.   A.   Palmer 


CREAMY  FONDANT 

1  level   tablespoon   Knox   Spark-      Vi  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
ling  Gelatin  1    teaspoon    peppermint    or    va- 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  nilla 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  V4  cup  cold  water  about  5  minutes.  Mix  sugar 
and  cream  of  tartar  together,  add  V2  cup  cold  water  and  boil  until 
syrup  is  clear.  Stir  softened  gellatin  through  syrup  quickly  and  turn 
into  pan  to  cool,  but  do  not  scrape  pan.  When  partially  cool,  beat 
until  creamy  and  stiff  enough  to  form  centers.  Drop  centers  in  dip- 
ping chocolate  and  place  on  waxed  paper  to  harden.  If  centers  not 
dropped  in  chocolate  at  once,  place  in  covered  dish  to  keep  from  hard- 
ening. (This  is  unusual  and  convenient  because  yon  do  not  have- to 
wait  for  Fondant  to  ripen.) 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 


—  Chocolate  Coating  — 
(For  Fondant) 

Place  in  a  shallow  pan  over  warm  water — 
4  ozs.  chocolate  2  tablespoons  butter  1  inch  square  Paraffin 

Stir  ingredients  until  they  are  melted  and  blended.     Add  5  drops 
vanilla.     Remove   from   fire   and   when   nearly   cool   put   candy   to  be 
dipped  in  the  coating  on  a  fork,  dip  quickly  and  place  on  piece  of  wax/ 
paper  to  dry. 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  jr. 


SMITH  COLLEGE  FUDGE 
(May  be  used  for  cake  icing  too) 

2  cups  sugar  ll/z  *'"P  milk 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar  1/8  teaspoon  salt 

3  squares   chocolate  1    teaspoon    vanilla 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Boil  gently  the  sugar,  chocolate,  butter,  milk  and  salt,  stirring 
frequently.  When  a  soft  ball  forms  as  a  portion  of  the  ingredients 
is  tested  in  cold  water,  remove  from  the  fire  and  do  not  move  for  20 
minutes.  Beat  until  thick,  add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  and  pour 
into  shallow  buttered  dish  for  candy  or  spread  on  cake  for  icing. 

Mrs.  C.  O.  Spencer,  Sr. 


55 


MARSHMALLOWS 

Boil  together  1  cup  of  sugar  and  Y>  cup  of  water,  cook  until  it 
forms  a  solid  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.-,  Remove  from  fire 
and  add  1  tablespoon  of  gelatin  which  sas  been  dissolved  in  2  table- 
spoons of  cold  water.  Cook  mixture  10  minutes.  Pour  into  tins  pow- 
dered with  confectioner's  sugar.  Cut  into  squares  when  firm  and  roll 
in  pulverized  sugar. 

Mrs.  Henry  Peterson 


56 


CHEESE  AND  EGGS 

Though  the  package  is  small 
The  value  is  great 

Cheese  and  eggs  are  the  best 
That  vou  ever  ate. 


EGG  OMELET 

Six  eggs  beaten  separately.  Add  to  yolks  6  tablespoons  of  sweet 
milk,  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper. 
Fold  this  mixture  into  egg  whites.  Put  tablespoon  butter  in  skillet 
and  have  hot  enough  to  sizzle  (not  too  hot)  then  pour  the  mixture 
in  and  cut  through  several  times  to  let  heat  through.  When  eggs 
have  .set  but  are  not  too  hard,  place  in  oven  350  degrees  and  brown 
slightly.  Put  butter  on  one  half  of  it  and  fold  over  and  remove  to 
hot  platter. 

Mrs.    Hayden   Clement 


ASPARAGUS  OMELET 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  3  eggs  separately  very  light.  Into 
the  yolks  fold  3  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and  %  teaspoonful  each  of 
salt  and  pepper  then  fold  in  the  whites.  Melt  a  teaspoonful  of  fat 
in  a  hot  omelet  pan,  turn  in  the  egg  mixture  and  make  it  smooth  on 
the  top.  Let  .stand  a  moment  on  the  top  of  the  range  to  set  the  egg 
on  the  bottom,  then  put  the  omelet  pan  into  a  very  moderate  oven 
to  cook  until  a  knife  thrust  into  the  center  of  the  omelet  comes  out 
without  uncooked  egg  adhering  to  it.  Score  the  top  of  the  omelet 
from  one  side  to  the  other,  in  the  center  and  at  right  anu'les  to  the 
handle  of  the  pan;  spread  some  of  the  asparagus  and  sauce  on  one 
side  of  the  omelet,  fold  at  the  scoring,  and  turn  on  to  a  hot  platter 
pour  the  rest  of  the  asparagus  and  sauce  around  the  omelet  and  serve 
at  once. 

Air1;.   Henry   Peterson 


CHICKEN  OMELET 

1  pint  of  chopped  chicken,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  of 
parsley,  chopped  fine,  1  pint  of  milk,  V2  teaspoon  salt,  and  pepper, 
V-2  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  3  eggs.  Make  white  sauce  of  milk  and 
butter  with  a  level  tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed  into  it;  add  bread 
crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  chicken,  parsley  and  yolks.  Beat  whites  and 
stir  into  the  mixture.  Put  into  a  hot  greased  pan,  cook  20  minutes 
and  serve  immediately. 

Mrs.  Henry  Peterson 

57 


CHEESE  BALLS 

Mix  together  iy2  cups  grated  cheese,  *4  teaspoon  salt,  pinch  of 
red  pepper,  1  tablespoon  floor,  stiff  whites  of  3  eggs.  Roll  in  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  Henry  Peterson 


CHEESE  SOUFFLE 
4  tablespoons  butter  6  eggs 

2  heaping  tablespoons  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk  1   pinch  cayenne  pepper 

2  cups  yrated  plain  cheese 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  sifted  with  seasoning,  then  the  milk.  When 
thick  add  yolk-;  of  e<>g.s  then  grated  cheese.  Set  away  to  cool.  When 
ready  for  cooking — any  time — add  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  turn  into 
buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  slowly  20  to  25  minutes.  Serve  from 
oven  to  table. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  McCall 


CHEESE  BISCUITS 


1  cup  grated  yellow  cheese  1/3  cup  butter 

1  cup  flour  Salt,  pepper,  and  paprika 

Make  into  dough  and  place  in  refrigerator  for  2  hours.  Roll 
out  very  thin — cut  with  small  biscuit  cutter.  Place  pecan  on  top  of 
each  biscuit  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Joe  L.  Wright 


58 


DESSERTS 

'Gets  many  a  lump  of  sweetness,  too, 
Who  comes  to  eat  salt  with  you." 


ZWIBACK  CAKE 


*/2  box  Zwiback  rolled  to  crumbs   1  cup  broken  pecan  meats 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder  1  teaspoon   cinnamon 

*6  eggs  1   cup  sugar 

Use   whipped   cream    filling   and    ice   all   over   with   the   whipped 
cream.     Serve  with  hot  brandy  flavoring  sauce. 
*     Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately  with  the  sugar. 

Mrs.  Hayden  Clement 


TANGERINE  TAPIOCA 


9  tbs  quick  cooking  tapioca  1   cup   tangerine  juice    (can   use 

2  2|3  cups  boiling  water  canned  juice) 

1  cup  orange  juice    (not  canned)    Grated  rind  of  1  orange 

1  cup  whipped  cream  1   cup  sugar 

V2  teaspoon  salt 

Add  tapioca  and  salt  to  water  and  cook  in  double  boiler  15  min- 
utes or  until  tapioca  is  clear,  stirring  frequently.  Add  sugar,  juices 
and  rind.  Cool.  Fold  in  whipped  cream.  Pile  lightly  in  sherbert 
glasses.     Chill.     Garnish   with  tangerine  shreds    (if  in   season). 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 


BAVARIAN  CREAM 

1  large  can  crushed  pineapple 
2  packages  cherry  jello  beaten  after  cooled. 
1/2  pint  cream  beaten 
Mix  altogether  and  sit  on  ice.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Will  Eagle 


JELLY  MERINGUE 

1  glass  firm  jelly  Pinch  of  salt 

2  egg  whites 

Beat  2  egg  whites  until  quite  stiff  and  able  to  stand  by  them- 
selves, then  add  1  glass  of  firm  jelly,  pinch  of  salt,  and  beat  thor- 
oughly.    Use  in  place  of  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  James  Cooper 

59 


ORANGE  ICE  BOX  CAKE 

18  squares  sponge  cake   (2  inch)    iy2  cups   confectioner's   sugar 

1  2  cup  butter  y2  cup  orange'  juice 

3  tbs  lemon  juice  1/8  teaspoon  salt 

2  tbs  grated  orange  rind  1  cup  whipped  cream 

4  egg  yolks  4  egg  whites  beaten 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  fruit  juices,  rind,  salt  and  yolks. 
Beat  for  3  minutes.  Fold  in  white.  Line  mold  with  sponge  cake, 
add  layer  of  orange  mixture  and  another  layer  of  sponge  cake.  Add 
rest  of  orange  mixture  and  top  with  rest  of  sponge  cake.  Chill  for 
24  hours. 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Hughes 


FILLED  ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

Melt  \'->  cup  butter.     Add  1  cup  brown  sugar.     Stir  well  and  cool. 

Grind  1  orange   (peel  inciuded). 

Cut  1  small  bottle  of  Maraschino  cherries. 

Add  */2  CIIP  blanched  almonds   (chopped) 

Add  a  small  box  of  shredded  cocoanut  and  2  tablespoons  shred- 
ded pineapple.  Mix  with  butter  mixture.  Whip  1  pint  of  cream 
and  mix  in  it  1  egg  white  beaten  well  and  2  tablespoons  sugar.  Beat 
until  stiff.  Ad'!  combined  mixtures.  Take  1  angel  food  cake,  cut 
top  off  of  it  and  spread  the  above  mixture  between  and  on  top.  Let 
it  set  about  12  hours.     Slice  and  serve. 

Miss  Louise  Goforth 


PERSIMMON  PUDDING  I 

4  eggs  3  cups  flour  sifted 

2V2  cups  sugar  1   cup  buttermilk   with  1  tsp. 

y±  It),  butter   (melted)  soda 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  milk,  flour  and  butter.     Mix  these  ingre- 
dients well.     Add  3  cups  Persimmon  pulp. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Cooke 


PERSIMMON  PUDDING  II 

1  pint  strained  persimmons  2   medium   size   sweet   potatoes — 

2  cups  flour  (mashed) 
4  eggs                                                     3  cups  sugar 

1  pint  buttermilk  Butter,  size  of  an  egg 

Spices:  cloves,  nutmeg,  cinnamon   1  teaspoon  soda 

Cook  very  slow  for  two  hours.     Watch  carefully  as  it  is  very 
easy  to  burn.     Serve  with  whip-cream  covered  with  cocoanut. 

Mn.  L.  D.  Perkins 


60 


BUTTERMILK  PUDDING 

3  tbs  shortening  1  cup  seeded  raisins 

iy2  tsp  ground  nutmeg  1  tsp  soda  into  1  cup  buttermilk 

2  cups  toasted  bread  crumbs 

Cvesm  sugar  and  shortening.  Then  add  bread  crumbs,  raisins 
and  nutmeg,  and  moisten  with  the  buttermilk.  Beat  well  and  pour 
into  an  oiled  mold  filling  it  about  two-thirds  full.  Cover  and  steam 
45  mi"utes  and  serve  with  whipped  cream  or  a  sauce. 

Mrs.  Viola  Kestler 


FARADISE  PUDDING 

y±  lb.  blanched  almonds  12  marshmallows — cut  in  4  pieces 

12  candied  cherries  V2  dozen  Macaroons 

1  package  lemon  jello  1  pint  boiling  water 

1  cup  cream  %  cup  sugar 

Cut  the  nuts,  fruit  and  Macaroons  fine.  Whip  the  cream  and 
fold  the  sugar  into  it.  Dissolve  jello  in  water  as  it  begins  to  cool 
and  whip  it.  Fold  in  the  Macaroons  last.  Put  in  a  square  pan  to 
cool.     Slice  and  serve 

Mrs.  }.  S.  Eagle 


CONGEALED  PLUM  PUDDING 

%  cup  grapenuts  %  cup  cooked  prunes 

%  cup  nuts  %  cup  raisins 

a/4  lb.  citron  (orange  or  anything  1  package  lemon  jello 

you  choose)  Vi  teaspoon  cloves 

x/4  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Dissolve  jello  in  2  cups  hot  water,  add  grapenuts,  let  cool.  Then 
add  other  ingredients,  put  in  refrigerator  and  congeal.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream  or  sauce. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Cooke 


GOOD  DESSERT 
1  package  cherry  or  raspberry  jello.     Make  as  usual,  however, 
Avhen  half  set  stir  in  1  pint  of  vanilla  ice  cream. 

Mrs.  Donald  Scloweizer 


FRUIT  GELATINE   (delicious) 
1  box  (or  the  4  envelopes)  Knox   4  lemons 

gelatine  1  cup  nuts 

3  or  4  oranges  3  cups  sugar 

1  cup  grapes 

Soak  gelatine  in  y2  cup  cold  water.  Add  2  cups  boiling  water 
and  sugar.  The  juice  of  four  lemons.  After  it  starts  to  set,  add 
fruit  and  nuts  chopped.  Cut  the  oranges  in  cubes,  skin  the  grapes, 
seeded  and  cut  in  3  or  4  pieces.  When  congealed  serve  with  whipped 
eream. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 
61 


ANGEL  FOOD  DESSERT 

Beat  2  eggs  separately.  Add  %  cup  of  sugar  to  the  whites  and 
then  add  yolks.  Two  large  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking 
sifted  with  the  flour.  1  cup  walnut  meats  chopped  fine.  1  cup  dates 
chopped  fine.  Mix  nuts  and  dates  with  the  flour  before  adding  to 
the  eggs  and  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake  in  well  buttered 
pan  one  hour.  Place  pan  in  pan  of  hot  water  to  bake.  Serve  cold 
with  whipped  cream.     Serves  6.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Hicks 

Submitted  by  Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle, 


REFRIGERATOR  NUT  LOAF 
Cut  in  quarters  1  box  marshmal-   1  box  of  dates  or  figs 

lows  %  cup  nuts 

2  bananas 

Crumble  3/i  box  of  graham  crackers.  Add  just  enough  cream  to 
make  ingredients  stick  together.  Mold  in  a  loaf  on  wax  paper.  Take 
6  graham  crackers.  Crush  with  rolling  pin.  Spread  over  loaf. 
Cover  with  waxed  paper.     Let  stand  in  refrigerator  24  hours.     Slice 

Mrs.  Marvin  Rone 


PLUM  PUDDING 

Combine  2V2  cups  water,  1  2-inch  stick  cinnamon,  4  whole  cloves 
and  x/4  teaspoon  whole  allspice  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Boil,  uncovered, 
about  5  minutes.  Strain,  if  necessary,  add  hot  water  to  make  1 
pint.  Dissolve  1  pkg.  Raspberry  Jell-o  in  this  liquid.  Pour  %  cup 
spiced  jello  mixture  into  large  mold.  Chill  until  firm.  Pour  re- 
maining spiced  jello  into  G  small  individual  molds.     Chill  until  firm. 

Combine  1  package  Raspberry  Jell-O,  dash  of  salt,  V2  tsp  ground 
cinnamon,  and  \\  tsp  ground  cloves,  add  1  pint  hot  water  and  stir 
until  Jell-0  is  dissolved.  Chill  until  slightly  thickened,  then  fold  in 
94  cup  each  finely  cut  raisins,  cooked  prunes  and  nut  meats,  ^4 
cup  finely  cut  citron  and  %  cup  Grape-Nuts.  Trun  into  large  mold 
over  clear  Jell-0  (previously  molded).  Chill  until  firm.  Unmold  and 
garnish  with  small  molds  of  clear  spiced  Jell-0  and  sprigs  of  holly. 
Serves  12. 

Mrs.  Marvin  Rone 


PECAN  ROLL 

1  lb.  Campfire  marshmallows  1  lb.  dates 

1  lb.  Graham  crackers    (21bs.  if     1  can  of  milk  or  top  milk 

desired)  1  lb.  pecans 

Cut  marshmallows,  dates  and  pecans  into  desired  pieces  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Roll  graham  crackers  with  rolling  pin.  Mix  marsh- 
mallows, dates,  pecans  and  graham  cracker  meal  together  and  add 
milk.  Mix  well  (save  enough  cracker  meal  to  roll  the  pecan  roll  in). 
Roll  in  long  roll  (shape).  Then  in  cracker  meal  and  wrap  with 
wax  paper  and  store  in  refrigerator.  Use  more  cream  if  2  lbs.  of 
crackers  are  used. 

Mrs.  Max  Liles 
62 


DATE  ROLL 
1  small  bottle  cherries  1   small   package  pitted   dates 

1  small  package  marshmallows       V2  eup  pecan  meats 
1  small  can  crushed   pineapple        3   small  boxes   graham   crackers 

Crush  crackers,  chop  dates,  cherries,  nuts  and  marshmallows. 
Add  pineapple  and  mix  well.  Make  into  3  rolls  and  place  in  refrige- 
rator over  night.     Slice  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.   Ed  Ketchie 


UNCOOKED  DATE  ROLL 


1 2  ib-  dates,  pitted  and  cut  in        %  lb  pecan  meats,  broken 

pieces  V2  pint  cream,  whipped 

y2  tb.  marshmallows,  cut  in  quar-   2  doz.  large  Graham  crackers, 
ters  rolled. 

Whip  the  cream  and  work  into  it  the  above  ingredients.  Roll  8 
additional  Graham  crackers  and  place  on  waxed  paper.  Divide  mix- 
ture and  make  into  two  roll-.  Cover  rolls  with  the  additional  crumbs 
and  wrap  well  in  waxed  paper.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Slice  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream,  topped  with  a  Marachino  cherry. 

Mrs.  Lane  Brown,  Albemarle,  N.  C. 

Submitted  by  Miss  Mildred  Propst 


CHERRY  PUDDING 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  butter  1  cup  flour 

1  cup  cherries  J  U  teaspoon  soda 

y2  cup  walnuts  Pinch  of  salt 

Bake  in  Loaf  Pan.     Slice  and  serve  with  1  cup  of  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.   J.  E.  Yountz 


DATE  PUDDING 

1  eup  bread  crumbs  %  cup  sugar 
l1/*  cups  stoned  halved  dates         2  tbsp  flour 

y2  cup  coarsely  chopped  walnuts   1  tsp  baking  powder    ■ 
V±  teaspoon  salt  4  tbsp  milk 

2  egsrs  Vi  tsp.  salt 

Put  the  bread  crumbs,  dates,  walnuts  and  sugar  together  in  a 
bowl,  add  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt  sifted  together  and 
moisten  with  the  eggs  and  milk.  Turn  into  a  greased  pan.  place 
this  in  another  pan  containing  hot  water  and  bake  40  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  R.  E.  Vail 


UNCOOKED  VANILLA  PUDDING 

1  lb.  vanilla  wafers   (Dissolved  together  with  1  pint  milk) 
V2  lb.  dates,  small  bottle  cherries  and  cup  of  nuts,  all  chopped 
Chill  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Robert  P.  Lemmon 

63 


DATE  PUDDING 
3  eggs,  beaten  separately  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  1  cup  chopped  dates 

!/•>  cup  chopped  pecans  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Blend  ingredients  and  add  whites  of  eggs  lastly.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven  300,  in  baking  dish  for  1  hour.  Serve  hot  with  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.   W.   Gettys  Guille 


DELMONICO  PUDDING 
I  quart  of  boiling  milk 
3   tablespoons   corn  starch   dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk  until 

smooth. 
Stir  into  the  hot  milk,  then  add  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  six  table- 
spoons of  sugar  well  beaten  together.     Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until 
thick,  then  put  into  baking  dish  with  the  meringue  on  top  made  from 
the  whites  of  eggs  and  ibrown  in  oven. 

Mrs.   W.   Gettys   Guille 


COTTAGE  PUDDING 

2  cups  flour  2  tbs  butter 

1  cup  sweet  milk  2  level  tsp  baking  powder 

1  egg  1  tsp  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar 

Cook  for  about  30  minutes,  setting  oven  at  350,  and  cut  in  blocks. 
Serve  hot  with  raisin  sauce. 

Mrs.   W.   Gettys   Guille 


BAKED  CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

1  cup  flour  V2  cup  milk 
y2  tsp  salt  1   tsp  vanilla 
%  cup  sugar  2  tbsp  butter 

2  tsp  baking'  powder  V2  cup  nuts 
4y2  tsp  cocoa 

Sift  flour,  measure  and  sift  with  salt,  sugar,  baking  powder  and 
cocoa.  Combine  melted  butter,  vanilla  and  milk  and  add  to  dry  in- 
gredients. Add  nuts  and  pour  into  well  buttered  baking  dish.  (5x 
9  inches).  Mix  %  cup  white  sugar,  y2  cup  ibrown  sugar,  6  table- 
spoons cocoa.  Sift  over  first  mixture.  Pour  1  cup  water  over  all 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  350  for  40  minutes.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream  or  ice  cream.     Keeps  well  in  refrigerator  as  long  as  a  week. 

Mrs.  Robert  P.  Lemmon 


PKUNE  PUDDING 
Two  cups  of  cooked  prunes  so  you  may  remove  seeds,  mash  fine 
and  sugar  to  taste  while  warm.  Add  V2  D0X  of  gelatine,  which  has 
been  soaked  in  %  cup  of  cold  water.  Let  cool  and  add  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  three  eggs,  and  put  in  moulds,  or  in  a  large  container. 
Slice  and  serve  with  whip  cream. 

Mrs.  George  C.  Peeler 
64 


SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 

2  medium-size   sweet  potatoes,       y2  cup  water 

grated  Piece  butter  size  of  an  egg 

1  cup  seedless  raisins  1  egg  well  beaten 

H  cup  sugar  x/o  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  bake  20  minutes  in  oven  400  F. 

As  a  variation  use  marshmallows  as  a  topping. 

Mrs.  F.  C.  Stoitdemirc 


POOR  MAN'S  RICE  PUDDING 

1  quart  milk  2  level  tablespoons  rice 

1  level  tablespoon  butter  A  pinch  of  salt 

3  level  tablespoons  sugar 

Wash  the  rice  well  and  put  in  baking  dish  with  the  salt,  sugar 
and  butter.  Pour  the  milk  over  and  bake  very  slowly,  at  least  21/<> 
hours,  stirring  twice  during  first  hour. 

Mrs.   O.  C.  Sharpe 


SYLLABUB  DESSERT 
Beat  2  cups  cream  with  V2  cup  of  sugar.  When  stiff,  flavor 
quite  strongly  with  wine  or  rum  flavoring.  Chill.  Heap  in  glasses 
and  serve  with  cake.  Do  a  little  extra  beating  after  adding  flavoring. 
Another  Syllabub  is  made  by  combining  1  cup  of  soft  custard 
with  1  cup  whipped  cream,  the  whole  sweetened  and  flavored  with 
wine  flavoring  or  (as  you  like  it.  Serve  very  cold.  These  are  mod- 
est but  delicious. 

Mrs.  O.  C.  Sharpe 


PEACH  EGG  NOG 

1  egg  1  cup  peach  juice    (from   canned 

y2  cup  cold  water  peaches) 

Pinch  of  nutmeg  Juice  of  y2  lemon 

Pinch  of  salt 
Beat  egg  yolk,   then   add   water,   lemon   juice   and  peach  juice. 
Keep  beating  for  few  seconds.     Beat  egg  white  stiff  with  the  pinch 
of  salt.     Add  this  to  the  yolk  mixture  and  beat  vigorously  for  a  few 
minutes.     Add  nutmeg  and  serve  in  tall  glasses.     Serves  4. 

Mrs.  O.  C.  Sharpe 


LEMON  BISQUE 

1  can  evaporated  milk  2  to  3  lemons,  grate  rind  of  one 

3/i  cup  sugar  1  package  jello  (lemon  or  lime) 

I  If  you  use- plain  gelatine  add  1,4  cup  lemon  juice  and  x/±  cup 
sugar.  Let  milk  chill.  Whip  milk  stiff.  Add  lemon  grated  and  juice 
with  gelatine  or  jello,  mix  well.  Pour  in  dish  lined  with  vanilla 
wafers  or  graham  crackers.     Dissolve  all  sugar  in  jello. 

Miss   Mary  Tilley 

65 


LEMON  ICE  BOX  DESSERT 

y2  lb.  box  vanilla  wafers  4  eggs 

x/2  CUP  sugar  1  tall  can  condensed  milk 

Juice  of  iy2  lemons  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

3  tbs  lemon  jello  y2  cup  boiling  water 

Beat  egg  yolks  well.  Add  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind. 
Cook  until  thick.  Beat  whites  of  eggs.  Whip  the  cream.  Dissolve 
jello  in  hot  water.  Let  cool.  Add  dissolved  jello  to  first  mixture.  Mix 
well.  Add  whipped  cream  and  mix  thoroughly.  Add  whites.  Crum- 
ble vanilla  wafers  and  cover  bottom  of  tray.  Pour  in  mixture.  Spread 
crumbled  wafers  on  top.     Serves  15. 

Mrs.  John  Roderick 


PINEAPPLE    REFRIGERATOR   CAKE 

1  cup  butter  IV2  cups  powdered  sugar 
x/2   C'UP  walnut  meats  finely  1  "cup  shredded  pineapple 

chopped  strained 

2  egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten  3  doz.  vanilla  wafers 
1  cup  heavy  cream  whipped 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar.  Add  nuts  and  pineapple  and 
blend  thoroughly.  Fold  in  egg  whites.  Line  a  round,  heat  resistant 
glass  cake  pan  with  vanilla  wafers.  Cover  with  pineapple  mixture 
and  add  a  layer  of  wafers  and  repeat  until  all  the  ingredients  are 
used,  having  a  layer  of  wafers  on  top.  Chill  in  refrigerator  at  least 
12  hours.  Garnish  with  whipped  cream  and  serve  in  glass  cake  pan 
from  the  table.     Serves  8. 

Mrs.  O.  C.  Sbarpe 


BANANA  BREAD 

Cream  together:  1  cup  sugar 

y2  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Add  2  egg  yolks 

3  bananas   (mashed  into  pulp  and  very  ripe) 
Sift  together:  y2  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  soda 

Add  dry  ingredients  to  first  mixture  and  mix  thoroughly,  adding 
the  Hour  a  small  amount  at  a  time.  Beat  egg  whites  stiffly  and  fold 
into  above  mixture.  Add  nuts  if  desired.  Bake  in  oven  at  350  deg. 
for  about  40  minutes.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce  topped  with  whipped 
(•ream. 

— Lemon  Sauce — 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs  slightly  beaten 

Juice  and  rind  of  2  lemons  1  heaping   tablespoon  flour 

1  small  can   crushed  pineapple        Lump  of  butter  size  of  an  egg 

Cook  juice,  sugar  and  flour  together  until  thick  and  let  cool 
sliuhtly.  Then  add  the  egg  slowly  stirring  constantly  while  adding. 
Return  to  fire  and  cook  for  just  a  few  minutes.  Remove  from  fire 
and  add  pineapple. 

Mrs.   Jo  Shulenberger 

66 


REFRIGERATOR  ICE  CREAM 

Beat  2  egg  whites.  Continue  beating  and  add  lA  cup  sugar  and 
2  tablespoons  corn  syrup.  Add  2  egg  yolks.  Continue  beating  5 
minutes  and  add  V2  teaspoon  salt  and  1  tablespoon  vanilla.  Set  this 
mixture  aside  and  in  another  bowl,  whip  until  thick  (but  not  stiff) 
1  pint  cream.  Beat  the  egg  mixture  into  the  cream.  Freeze  with- 
out stirring.  (Any  fruit  may  be  added,  however,  if  fruit  is  used 
stir  mixture  once  after  freezing  begins. 

Mrs.  C.  M.  Bobbrti 


"MY  FAVORITE  ICE  CREAM" 

Juice  of  two  oranges  and  one  lemon  added  to  IV2  cups  of  sugar. 
Let  stand  30  minutes,  then  add  slowly  1  pint  of  top  milk.  Beat  with 
rotary  egg  beater,  y2  pint  of  whipping  cream  or  small  can  of  Pet 
or  Carnation  milk.  Stir  into  the  other  mixture.  Pour  into  trays 
and  freeze  at  high  speed. 

Mrs.  Luther  French 


ICE  CREAM  BASE 

1  quart  milk  IV2  cups  sugar 

1|3  cup  flour  l|8  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg 

Mix  sugar,  salt  and  flour  together  thoroughly.  Scald  milk,  add 
dry  mixture.  Cook  until  thick.  Pour  over  well  beaten  egg.  Chill 
in  electric  refrigerator  food  compartment.     Store  and  use  as  desired. 

Mrs.  Currie  Cafes,  Jr. 


BANANA  ICE  CREAM 

1  cup  custard  base  1  cup  cream  whipped 

J/4  teaspoon  vanilla  3  well  mashed  bananas 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Whip  cream  until  of  custard  consistency.     Fold  in  custard  base. 
Flavor.     Freeze  in  electric  refrigerator,  stirring  once  during  freezing. 

Mrs.  Currie  Cafes,  Jr. 


PINEAPPLE  SHERBERT 

1  package  lemon  jello  1  cup  hot  water 

Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon      Q*/     1  small  can  evaporated  milk 
%  quart  milk  ijt^  *("V^  (Chill  and  whip) 

1  cup  sugar  ^Y^^*^  1  small    can  of  pineapple 

Mix  jello,  J^sugar,  lemon  juice  and  rina  with  hot  water.  Add 
milk.  Let  freeze.  Whip  canned  milk,  add  to  frozen  mixture  and 
whip  all  together.     Then  put  back  in  tray  and  freeze.     Serves  6. 

Mrs.  Price  Surratt 
67 


LEMON  MILK  SHERBERT 

1  quart  milk  2  cups  sugar 

1  lemon  rind  Juice  of  4  lemons 

y2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Boil  milk,  sugar,  rind  of  lemon  Stir  all  the  time.  Cool  and 
freeze.  When  half  frozen  add  lemon  juice  and  beaten  whites  of  2 
eggs.     Let  stand  1  hour  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Effie  Earnhardt 


LIME  SHERBERT 


1  package  lime  jello  Juice  and  rind  of  2  lemons 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  quart  sweet  milk 

1  heaping  cup  sugar 

Pour  boiling  water  over  jello  and  add  sugar,  then  lemon  juice 
and  rind.  Let  cool  thoroughly.  Add  milk  slowly  stirring  all  the 
while.  (This  makes  IV2  quarts  or  more.)  Pour  into  tray  and  freeze 
quickly.     Needs  no  stirring. 

Mrs.  Earl  Clapp 


THREE  OF  A  KIND  IOE 


3  bananas  3  oranges 

3  lemons  3  pints  of  water 

3  cups  sugar  1  pint  of  cream  whipped  stiff 

Mix  and  freeze  hard.       The  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff  with 
the  sugar.     Freeze  this  in  freezer. 

Mrs.   Hayden  Clement 


LEMON  DESSERT 


Grated  rind  of  1  lemon  1  cup  sugar 

Yolks  of  4  eggs 

Put  in  double  boiler,  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly  to  pre- 
vent lumping.  Cool.  Add  2  tablespoons  lemon  jello  which  has  been 
dissolved  in  y2  cup  hot  water  and  then  add  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs. 
Beat  until  thick  2  small  or  1  large  can  Pet  milk.  Add  to  above  mix- 
ture. Cover  bottom  of  refrigerator  tray  with  vanilla  wafer  crumbs, 
pour  in  above  mixture,  cover  top  with  wafer  crumbs.  Put  in  freez- 
ing unit  and  let  freeze.     Do  not  stir.     Delicious. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Carter 


ANGEL  DELIGHT 


1   can   crushed    pineapple  y2  lb  marshmallows 

y2  pint  whipping  cream  4  good  size  bananas 

Cut  marshmallows  up  and  mix  with  crushed  pineapple.  Let 
over  night  in  refrigerator.  Dice  bananas.  Whip  the  cream,  adding 
1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  flavoring.  Then  mix  bananas  and  whip  cream 
with   the  pineapple  and   marshmallows.     Keep  this  in  ice  box. 

Mrs.  Ed  Lyerly 

68 


ORANGE  SHERBERT 

Juice  of  3  lemons  Juice  of  3  oranges 

2  bananas  mashed  fine  3  cups  water 

2  cups  sugar 

Mix  and  freeze  in  refrigerator.     Stir  when  half  frozen  and  add 
whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff. 

Mrs.  Ed  Lyerly 


GRAPE  FRUIT 
Halve  large  firm  grape  fruit.     Core  and  loosen  sections.     Sprin- 
kle  with     u-jar    and    broil   under   flame.     Serve    warm — not    too  hot. 
Also  fine  bv  adding  maraschino  cherry  juice  instead  of  sugar.     Put 
cherrv  in  the  center. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  McCall 


GRAPEFRUIT  GOOD  REMEDY 

If  you're  "in  a  fever"  about  the  first  course,  here's  the  remedy! 
If  you're  in  a  sweat  about  dessert,  the  same  recipe  will  calm  you 
down;  and  if  you're  just  anxious  to  try  something  new  with  the  meat 
— You're  right — It's  the  answer! 

GRAPEFRUIT  ICE 

2  cups  water  l1/!  cups  sugar 

2  teaspoons  gelatine  2  tablespoons   cold  water 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  1  cup  grapefruit  juice 

1  egg  white,  beaten  stiff 

Soften  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Boil  sugar  and  water  together 
for  5  minutes.  Add  softened  gelatine  to  the  hot  syrup.  Cool.  Add 
fruit  juice=  and  egg  white.  Pour  into  freezing  trays  and  freeze  at 
lowest  temperature.  After  it  .starts  to  freeze,  stir  mixture  in  the 
tray  so  that  the  egg  white  will  become  mixed  through.  Delicious 
served  with  fruit  cup,  as  a  meat  garnish  or  a  dessert.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Mrs.   /.  A.  Cooke 


RHUBARB  BROWN  BETTY 
2  cups  graham  cracker  crumbs       3  tablespoons  melted  butter 
2  cups  diced  Rhubard  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Vi  tsp  grated  lemon  rind  y2  cup  brown  sugar 

*/2  cup  hot  water 

Mix  cracker  crumbs  with  butter,  sprinkle  layer  of  crumbs  in 
bottom  of  baking  dish.  Cover  with  half  of  the  rhubarb,  sprinkle 
with  half  of  lemon  juice  and  rind  and  sugar.  Cover  with  another 
layer  of  crumbs.  Pour  over  it  the  water  and  cover  with  remaining 
crumbs.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (375  deg.)  35  minutes.  Serve 
warm  with  orarige  sauce. 

Mrs.    L.    D.    Perkins 


69 


PRALINE  APPLES 

Boil  1  cup  sugar  and  IV2  cups  water  5  minutes. 

Add  5  pared,  cored  apples.  Simmer  until  tender.  Remove  ap- 
ples to  serving  dish.  Boil  syrup  thick.  Pour  over  apples.  Heat  y2 
cup  susar,  %  cup  chopped  hlanched  toasted  almonds  in  heavy  pan 
until  caramelized.  Pour  quickly  over  apples.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Garnish  with  cropped  salted  almonds.  (This  is  good  with 
soft  ginger  cookies  or  slices  of  brown  bread  put  together  with  cream 
cheese). 

Mrs.  Jas.  F.  Marsh 


APPLE  CRUMBLE 

6  to  8  medium  size  apples  Vo  cup  butter 

1  cup  brown  sugar  y2  cup  flour 

Wash,  pare  and  slice  apples  into  a  well  greased  vegetable  pan. 
Mix  sugar,  butter  and  flour  together  until  it  is  crumbly,  using:  the 
fingertips  sprinkle  this  mixture  over  the  top  of  the  apples  and  bake 
35  to  40  minutes.     Serve  warm. 

Mrs.  Walter  Carter 


BAKED  STUFFED  APPLES 

6  large  red  apples  1   teaspoon   cinnamon 

1  cup  chopped  bananas  Chopped  nut  meats 

1  cup  chopped  cranberries  Whipped  cream 

1  cup  sugar 
Do  not  peel  apples,  but  cut  off  stems.  Remove  all  the  core  and 
part  of  the  pulp,  leaving  the  walls  of  the  cup  about  %-inch  thick. 
Mix  bananas,  cranberries,  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Fill  the  apples  with 
mixture  and  cover  with  chopped  nut  meats  and  bake  in  oven  until 
tender.  Serve  cold  with  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  top  of  each 
apple. 

Mrs.  Curry  Krider 


BAKED  FRUIT  DUMPLINS 

Roll  out  the  mixture  of  baking  powder,  biscuit  dough.  Cut  in 
4  or  5  inch  squares  and  in  the  center  of  each  place  IV2  tablespoons 
of  chopped  fresh  apples,  peaches,  apricots  or  sweetened  berries,  or 
of  canned  or  stewed  fruit  which  has  heen  sweetened.  Fold  up  the 
edges,  press  them  together  and  place  fold  side  down  in  a  baking  pan, 
which  has  been  rubbed  with  shortening.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350  degrees  F.)  for  30  minutes  and  serve  hot  with  hard  sauce, 
Lemon  or  Nutmeg  sauce. 

— Hard  Sauce 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1(3  cup  butter 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 
Cream   butter  and   sugar  gradually,  beating  until  the   sauce   is 
light  and  creamy.     Add  vanilla.     Set  in  cool  place  until  served. 

Mn.  W.  M.  Eagle 
70 


APPLE  CRISP 

4  cups  sliced  apples  *4  cup  hot  water 

y2  cup  butter  V2  cup  flour 

V2  cup  sugar 
Arrange  apples  in  buttered  baking  dish.     Pour  hot  water  over 
the    apples.     Cream    butter,    and    flour   and    sugar  to   make    crumbs. 
Sprinkle  on  top  of  apples  and  bake  at  400  degrees. 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Holt 


BANANA  FRITTERS 


1  cup  flour  Pinch  of  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  of  sugar 
Enough  milk  to  make  a  batter  that  will  stick  to  pieces  of  bananas 
Cut  bananas  into  small  pieces,  preferably  the  long  way  of  the 
banana.  Roll  slices  of  banana  in  the  batter.  (Size  about  1  inch 
in  length).  Fry  in  deep  fat  Crisco  or  lard  until  brown.  Then  roll 
onto  plate,  sprinkle  with  pulverized  sugar. 

Mrs.  Jessie  Earnhardt 


PINEAPPLE  ICE  BOX  DESSERT 

Yz  cup  butter  1  cup  drained  crushed  pineapple 

1  cup  sugar  2  egg  whites 

2  egg  yolks  l|3  cup  pineapple  juice 

1  tablespoon  of  cream  25   graham    crackers    (crumbled) 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  egg  yolks  with  cream  and  stir 
over  hot  water  until  thick  and  smooth.  Then  add  crushed  pineapple 
and  juice  and  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Line  a  shallow  loaf 
pan  with  wax  paper  and  put  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  in  the  bottom. 
Over  this  pour  l|3  of  the  mixture,  cover  with  crumbs  and  then  more 
of  the  mixture,  then  more  mixture  and  crumbs  until  all  is  used. 
Cover  pan  with  wax  paper,  fasten  with  rubber  band  or  string  and 
place  in  ice  box  for  5  or  6  hours.  Unmold  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

Mrs.  A.  H.  Bond,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 

(Sister  of  Mrs.  Carl  Weinbrunn) 


SYLLABUB 


1  pint  cream  a  day  old  \/->  cup  sugar 

V2  euP  fresh  milk  1  tsp  Sherry  flavoring  (optional) 

V2  cup  sweet  cider  Little  nutmeg  on  top 

y2  tsp  vanilla 

Chill  ingredients,  make  shortly  before  ready  to  serve.  Whip 
cream  lightly,  mix  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  in  a  large  bowl,  add 
cream  and  beat  again.     Sprinkle  little  nutmeg  on  top  and  serve. 

(This  is  an  original  North  Carolina  recipe  and  is  very  old). 

Mrs.  James  Cooper 
71 


HEAVEN'S  DELIGHT 

4  eggs  beaten  separately  1  package  dates 

iy2  cups  sugar  %  cup  milk   (swe,et) 

IV2  cups  of  bread  crumbs  Heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Vi  pound  pecans 

Cream  yolks  and  sugar,  add  other  ingredients,  stiffly  beaten 
whites  last.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  30  minutes.  Serve  with  whip- 
ped cream.  Mrs.  Henry  Peterson 


SCALLOPED  APPLES 

Peel,  core  and  slice  6  medium  sized  apples,  place  in  buttered 
casserole  and  add  */4  tsp  cinnamon,  x/^  tsp  salt,  1  tablespoon  lemon 
juice  and  tyi  cup  of  water.  Work  together  %  cups  old  fashion  dark 
brown  sugar,  V4  cup  flour  and  1/3  cup  of  butter  until  crumbly.  Spread 
over  apples  and  bake  at  400  degrees  for  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  C.  O.  Spencer.  Sr. 


BOSTON  PEACH-CREAM  DESSERT 

Bake  at  325  degrees  for  35  to  40  minutes. 

Sift  together:  1  cup  sifted  flour;  1  teaspoon  double-acting 
bakim*  powder  or  V/2  teaspoons  single-acting;  y2  tsp  salt. 

Combine:  3  egg  yolks;  1(3  cup  water;  1  tsp  grated  lemon  rind; 
V2  teaspoon  vanilla  and  beat  thoroughly  with  rotary  beater. 

Add  gradually  1  cup  sugar,  beating  well  after  each  addition. 

Add  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

Blend  dry  ingredients  into  egg  mixture  gradually,  stirring  care- 
fully but  thoroughly. 

Beat  3  egg  whites  until  stiff  but  not  dry  and  fold  into  batter. 

Pour  into  two  greased  8-inch  layer  cak<?  pans  which  has  been 
lined  with  wax  paper.  Bake  in  slow  oven  (325  degrees) 
for  35  to  40  minutes.     Cool  and  fill  with  Cream  Filling. 

— Cream  Filling 

Heat  1  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons  butter,  combine  1|3  cup  flour,  ^4 
tsp  salt,  l|3  cup  sugar.  Add  V2  CUP  c°ld  milk  to  dry  ingredients  and 
stir  until  smooth;  then  add  to  hot  milk  in  saucepan,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  thick.  Blend  in  2  slightly  beaten  egg  yolks,  to  which 
a  little  of  the  hot  mixture  has  been  added.  Cook  about  2  minutes. 
Cool.  Add  1  tsp  vanilla.  Spread  filling  and  canned  cling  peach 
slices  or  halves  between  layers.  Top  with  whipped  cream  and  ad- 
ditional peach  slices. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Swanson 


PEACH  MARLOW 

Steam  20  marshmallows  and  ^  cup  water.  When  this  has 
reached  the  liquid  stage  add  one  cup  crushed  peaches  and  allow  to 
cool.  When  cold,  carefully  combine  with  y2  pint  whipped  cream. 
Pour  into  tray  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Eagle 
72 


JAMS,  PICKLES,  RELISHES 

"To  wealth  of  summer's  mellow  prime 
To  cheer  the  dearth  of  winter's  rime. 


MARMALADE 


Peel  18  peaches,  cut  in  halves  and  remove  seeds.  Put  peaches 
and  5  whole  oranges  through  food  chopper,  using  coarse  blade.  Meas- 
ure fruit,  add  iy2  times  as  much  sugar  as  fruit.  Cook  until  mixture 
sheets  from  spoon  as  for  jelly.  Add  1  cup  chopped  maraschino 
cherries.  Pour  into  sterilized  glasses,  cover  with  paraffin.  Makes 
about  5  pints. 

Mrs.  Dora  L.  Clingman 


PEAR  MINCEMEAT 


1  lemon  2  pounds  raisins 

2  oranges  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  peck  pears                                         1  teaspoon  cloves 

3  pounds  brown  sugar 

Grind  together.  Save  juice  and  add  1  cup  water.  Cook  2 
hours,  stirring  to  keep  from  burning.  Pour  into  sterilized  glasses, 
cover  with  paraffin. 

Mrs.   Effie   Earnhardt 


PEAR  RELISH 

2  quarts  vinegar  1  gallon  of  onions,  ground 

4  cups  sugar  4  peppers  hot  and  sweet. 

2  tablespoons  tumeric  (Soak  pears,  onions  and  peppers 

2  tablespoon  mustard  seed  over  night  in  salt  water). 

1  peck  of  pears   (ground) 

Mix  together  vinegar,  sugar,  tumeric     and    mustard     seed.     Let 

mixture  boil  for  5  minutes.  Drain  pear  mixture,  then  put  into  syrup 

and  simmer  for  5  minutes.  Put  into  sterilized  jars  and  seal. 

Miss  Annie  Laurie  Felker 


GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES 

2  qts.  small  green  tomatoes  1  tablespoon  salt 

4  cups  vinegar  2  teaspoons  dry  mustard 

1  tbsp  whole  cloves  2  tablespoons  sugar 

3  cups  water 

Cut  tomatoes  in  quarters.  Combine  remaining  ingredients.  Heat 
to  boiling.  Add  tomatoes.  Boil  5  minutes.  Pack  in  sterilized  jar 
and  seal. 

Mrs.  /.  E.  Yountz 
73 


CATSUP 

1  peck  or  15  lbs.  ripe  tomatoes       1  slim  red  pepper  pod  (hot) 

7  tbs  prepared  mustard  1  slim  green  pepper  pod,  hot 
5  tbl  salt  (More   if  desired) 

2  tbsp  black  pepper  8  large  onions  cut  fine 
2  tbsp  allspice  2  pints  vinegar 

8  tbsp  sugar  (more  if  desired) 

Chop  tomatoes,  onions  and  peppers.  Simmer  3  hours  then  strain 
through  a  colander.  Add  all  other  ingredients  (put  spice  in  a  bag). 
Cook,  until  the  catsup  thickens.  Pour  into  sterilized  bottles  and 
cork.   (Dip  cork  in  paraffin  or  use  caps  like  cold  drinks). 

This  catsup  is  not  supposed  to  be  thick  like  bought  catsup  .  .  . 
Delicious  for  meats,  oyster  cocktails,  etc. 

Mr 5.  John  E.  Ramsey 


SWEET  SUCUMBER  PICKLES   (9-day) 

4  quarts  cucumbers  chunked.     Make  a  brine  with  salt  and  water 
that  will  float  an   egg.     Add  cucumbers  and  soak   for  3  days,  then 
pour  off  brine  and   place   cucumbers   in   cold    water  changing  water 
each  day  for  3  days.     Rinse  thoroughly.     Prepare  mixture: 
3  pints  water  —  1  pint  vinegar  —  1  teaspoon  alum 

Simmer  pickles  in  mixture  for  3  hours  then  drain  while  prepar- 
ing Syrup: 

3  pints  vinegar  —  3  pounds  sugar  —  1  oz.  each,  cinnamon  sticks, 
celery  seed,  white  mustard  seed  and  allspice. 

Let  syrup  boil  for  5  minutes  then  pour  over  well  drained  pickles. 
Each  day  for  3  days  pour  this  syrup  off  pickles  and  let  come  to  a 
pood  boil,  then  pour  off  pickles  On  the  10th  day  pour  off  syrup  and 
boil  for  10  minutes.  Pack  pickles  into  hot  sterilized  jars  and  pour 
hot  syrup  over  them  and  seal.  (These  pickles  may  be  sealed  cold  if 
desired. 

Mrs.  J.  Max  Liles 


13  DAY  PICKLES 


Three  gallons  of  cucumbers,  wash,  put  in  salt  brine  strong 
enough  to  float  an  ps;g.  Leave  in  brine  until  ready  to  make  pickles. 
Seventh  day  drain  from  salt  water  and  pour  boiling  water  over  cu- 
cumbers, let  stand  over  night.  Eighth  day  cut  cucumbers  into  1-in. 
pieces  across.  Put  2  ounces  powdered  alum  in  boiling  water  enough 
to  cover  cucumbers,  let  stand  over  night.  Ninth  day,  drain  water 
from  cucumbers  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Stand  over  night. 
Tenth  day,  take  3  quarts  vinegar,  2  ounces  cinnamon  bark,  2  ounces 
mixed  pickling  spices,  tie  in  bag,  put  in  pickles  with  vinegar,  8  lbs. 
sugar  and  x/o  ounce  celery  seed.  Boil  all  this  together,  pour  over 
cucumbers.  Eleventh  day,  drain  vinegar  from  pickles  and  boil,  pour 
over  pickles  and  let  stand  over  night.  Twelfth  day,  same  as  the 
11th  day.  Thirteenth  day,  ready  to  be  stored  in  stone  jars  or  glass 
jars.     Put  away,  crisp  and  cold  and  they  stay  very  delicious. 

Miss  Helen  Mullis 
1\ 


BREAD  AND  BCTTER  PICKLES 

1  gal.  thin  sliced  cucumbers  8  onions  sliced 

2  small  hot  peppers  %  cup  salt 

Mix  cucumbers,  onions,  salt  and  pepper  together.  Put  in  crushed 
ice  and  let  stand  three  hours. 

Mix  4  cups  vinegar,  4  cups  sugar,  iy2  tsp  cloves,  1  tsp  celery 
seed,  2  tbsp  mustard  seed. 

Mix   vinegar   and    all   other    ingredients.     Boil   cucumbers   hard 
for  about  5  minutes.     Then  put  in  jar  and  seal. 

Mrs.  /.  E.  Yountz 


CUCUMBER  MUSTARD  PICKLES 

Put  into  a  quart  fruit  jar  4  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons  salt, 
2  tablespoons  ground  mustard. 

Wash  cucumbers  and  pack  as  many  as  possible  into  jar.  Cucum- 
bers should  not  be  more  than  3  inches  long.  Fill  jar  with  cold  vine- 
gar, screw  air  tisrht.  After  6  weeks  pickles  are  ready  to  serve  and 
are  delicious.     Pickles  will  keep  for  weeks  if  kept  in  cool  place. 

Mrs.  O.  C.  Sharpe 


GREEN  TOMATO  CATSUP 

1  gal.  cut  up  cucumbers  4  cups  sugar 

V2  gal.  green  tomatoes  (chopped)    y2  gallon  vinegar 
1  quart  of  onions  Salt  to  taste 

3  green  hot  peppers 

Put  cucumbers  and  tomatoes  in  a  sack  and  squeeze  dry.  Pour 
into  sauce  pan  then  add  sugar  and  vinegar.  Cook  until  catsup  thick- 
ens.    Pour  into  sterilized  bottles  or  glasses  and  seal. 

Mrs.  O.  C.  Sharpe 


PEPPER  HASH 
4  doz.  large  green  and  red  peppers   IV2  cups  sugar 
15  medium  sized  onions  3  tablespoons  salt 

3  hot  peppers  Vinegar  to  cover 

Grind  peppers  and  onions  in  food  chopper.  Cover  with  boiling 
water  and  let  stand  for  5  minutes.  Put  into  a  bag  and  squeeze  all 
water  out.  Add  sugar,  salt  and  vinegar.  Let  come  to  a  boil.  Pour 
into  sterilized  jars  and  seal. 

Mrs.  R.  J.  Misenheimer 


BREAD- 'N  BUTTER  PICKLE 

8  cups  cucumbers  4  large  white  onions 

Slice  and  sprinkle  with  hand  full  salt  and  let  stand  1  hour.  Drain. 

2  cups  vinegar  2  tsp  celery  seed 
1  cup  water  2  tsp  tumeric 

3  cups  sugar 

Bring  to  boil.     Add  cucumbers  and  onions  and  cook  20  minutes. 
Seal  air  tight. 

Mrs.  Robert  P.  Lemmon 
75 


UNCOOKED  RELISH 

4  medium  sized  cabbage  1  oz.  celery  seed 

12  small  onions  1  oz.  tumeric 

3  red  bell  pepper  */2  gallon  vinegar 

3  green  bell  pepper  2  pounds  sugar  (brown) 

2  oz.  mustard  seed  Salt  to  taste 

Add  sugar  to  vinegar  and  heat  until  dissolved  and  pour  over 
other  ingredients  that  have  been  ground.  Put  in  sterilized  jars  and 
seal. 

Mrs.  Jake  Kendleman 


PEPPER  HASH 


12  large  onions  3  or  4  cups  sugar 

12  large  green  peppers  (sweet)       4  tablespoons  salt 
12  large  red  peppers   (sweet)  2  quarts  vinegar 

1  small  cabbage 

Put  vegetables  through  chopper.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and 
boil  for  5  minutes.  Drain.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  boil  for 
10  minutes.  Drain.  Boil  in  vinegar,  sugar,  and  salt  solution  for 
«bout  15  minutes  or  until  tender.     Seal. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Mauldin 


PEPPER  RELISH 

12  green  peppers  2  cups  vinegar 

12  red  peppers  2  cups  sugar 

12  onions  3  tablespoons  salt 

Chop  peppers  and  onions,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand 
5  minutes.  Drain.  Add  vinegar,  sugar,  and  salt.  Let  come  to  a  boil 
and  boil  10  minutes.     Put  in  sterilized  jars  and  seal. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Pennington 
Submitted    by  her  daughter 
Mrs.  Marvin  Rone 


WATERMELON  RIND  PICKLES 

Cut  away  all  green  and  red  from  the  rind  and  dice  into  con- 
venient sized  pieces.  (Cut  with  fancy  cookie  cutters  if  desired). 
Put  in  about  x/2  cup  lime  and  cover  with  water.  Let  stand  over 
night.  Rinse  in  clear  water  and  cook  in  ginger  tea  (powder  the 
water  with  pulverized  ginger  till  it  is  medium  brown)  until  tender 
enough  to  cut  with  a  fork.  Drain  out  of  this  water  and  drop  into 
syrup  made  of  6  pounds  sugar  to  1  quart  of  vinegar  with  about  Vk 
box  whole  cloves,  y2  box  whole  spice  and  2  sticks  cinnamon.  (Put 
spice  and  cloves  in  a  thin  cloth  and  tie  loosely).  Cook  until  clear 
and  crisp.  (It  usually  takes  at  least  4  hours  of  cooking,  counting 
the  time  in  the  ginger  tea  and  in  the  syrup.  If  the  syrup  does  not 
cover  the  rind  you  will  have  to  increase  the  amount  accordingly. 

Mrs.  Earl  Clapp 
76 


WATERMELON  BIND  PICKLES 

10  pounds  rind  5-cent  box  allspice  and  whole 

4  pounds  sugar,  part  brown  clove 

4  pints  vinegar,  diluted 

Soak  rind  over  night  in  Lilly's  lime.  Soak  20  minutes  in  salt 
water.  Soak  20  minutes  in  clear  water.  Let  vinegar,  sugar  and 
spice  come  to  boil,  drop  in  rind  and  cook  until  tender,  test  with  a 
toothpick.     Pack  in  sterilized  jars  and  seal. 

Mrs.  Murry  Wagner 


ICE  WATER  PICKLES 

Six  pounds  medium  size  cucumbers  (each  cut  in  4  to  8  pieces). 

Soak  in  ice  water  3  hours.     Drain.    Pack  into  sterilized  jars. 

Add  6  pickling  onions,  1  piece  celery,  1  teaspoon  mustard  seed 
to  each  jar.     Solution: 

3  quarts  white  vinegar  3  cups  sugar 

1  cup  salt 

Bring  to  boil,  pour  over  cucumbers  and  seal  jars.     This  makes 
6  quarts. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Watson 


SWEET  PICKLE  BEETS 

Cook  beets  until  tender,  peel.     Mix  and  let  come  to  boil : 
1  cup  sugar  1  cup  vinegar 

1  cup  water  Pickling  spices  to.  taste 

Pack  beets  into  sterilized  jars  and  pour  syrup  over  beets.     Seal. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Pennington 
By  Mrs.  Marvin  Rone,  her' daughter 


MARMALADE  SUPREME 
1  grapefruit  1  orange 

1  lemon  314  quarts  water 

5  pounds  sugar 

Cut  fruit  into  very  thin  slices,  using  sharp  paring  knife.  Add 
water  and  let  stand  over  night.  Cook  until  peeling  is  tender  and 
let  stand  another  night.  Add  sugar  and  let  cook  until  syrup  thick- 
ens.    Pour  into  jars  and  seal. 

Mrs.  Mildred  Seaber 


STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES 
1  cup  water  2  cups  sugar 

Let  boil  until  thick,  then  add  2  cups  strawberries.     Boil  hard  3 
minutes.     Pour  into  sterilized  jars  and  seal. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Street.  Asheville.  N.  C. 

Submitted  by  Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 

77 


CHILI  SAUCE 

12  pounds  firm  ripe  tomatoes         2  tbsp  ground  blaek  pepper 

2  pounds  white  onions  l|3  cup  salt 

1  pound  green  bell  peppers  One  10c  box  pickling  spices   (tie 

iy2  pounds  brown  sugar  in  bag  to  be  removed  when 

1  quart  vinegar  sauce  is  done) 

3  tbsp  Coleman 's  mustard  2  long  hot  peppers 

Peel  tomatoes  and  cut  into  pieces.  Chop  onions  small,  and  cut 
green  peppers  into  small  pieces.  Add  other  ingredients  and  cook 
together  until  as  thick  as  desired.     Makes  about  7  pints. 

Mrs.  James  F.  Marsh 


CHOW  CHOW 

Fart  I 

12  green  peppers,  chopped  12  pounds  cabbage,   chopped 

12  onions,  chopped 

Part  II 

3  pounds  brown  sugar  l[8  cup  tumeric 

V-j  gallon  vinegar  1|8  cup  white  celery  seed 

3 i  cup  salt  1|8  cup  celery  salt 

Heat   vinegar,  add   dry  ingredients   and  stir  well.      Pour    over 
pepper,  onions  and  cabbage.  This  may  be  put  in  jars  and  used  later. 

Mrs.  O.  T.  Snow 


ICED  GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE 

Soak  24  hours  7  pounds  of  sliced  green  tomatoes  in  2  gallons  of 
water  in  which  2  cups  of  hydrated  lime  is  dissolved.  Then  soak 
tomatoes  in  fresh  water  for  4  hours  changing  water  every  hour. 
Drain  well. 

Make  a  syrup  of  5  pounds  sugar  and  3  pints  of  vinegar,  tea- 
spoon each  of  cloves,  mace,  allspice,  celery  seed,  4  roots  of  ginger 
and  4  sticks  of  cinnamon. 

Boil  this  for  about  10  minutes  and  pour  over  the  sliced  tomatoes. 
Let  stand  over  night.  Boil  syrup  and  tomatoes  for  1  hour  the  next 
day.     Seal  in  glass  jars. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Strachan 


PICKLED  CHERRIES 

Wash  but  do  not  remove  seed  or  stems  of  sour  red  cherries.  To 
the  desired  amount  of  cherries  add  %  of  their  weight  or  measure  of 
sugar.  Sprinkle  the  sugar  over  the  fruit  in  layers  and  let  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning,  stir  gently  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  drain 
juice  well  from  cherries.  Tie  a  small  quantity  of  whole  apices  in  a 
cheese  cloth  bag,  drop  this  into  juice  and  boil  it  down  until  it  is  % 
of  the  original  quantity  .  .  .  while  the  syrup  is  hot  pour  it  over  well 
drained  cherries  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  well  flavored  vinegar  to 
each  pint.  Seal  and  let  stand  about  2  weeks  to  become  well  blended 
before  using.     (So  different  for  a  party  plate). 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 


CHILLI  SAUCE 

12  large  tomatoes  1  tablespoon  mustard 

2  medium  onions,  chopped  fine       1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

3  sweet  green  peppers  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  tablespoons  salt  2  tablespoons  sugar 

3  cups  vinegar 

Blanch  tomatoes  and  cold  dip,  peel  and  quarter.  Chop  onions 
and  pepper,  combine  ingredients.  Cook  until  thick.  Seal  at  once 
in  hot  jars. 

Mrs.   Marvin  Rone 


CHOW  CHOW 


1  gal.  chopped  cabbage  4  tbsp  white  mustard  seed 

1  gal.  sliced  green  tomatoes  4  tbsp  celery  seed 

6  medium  onions  4  tbsp  whole  cloves 

2  pounds  sugar  2  tbsp  mace 
1  gallon  vinegar  4  tbsp  salt 

3  pods  hot  pepper 

Let  cabbage,   tomatoes,  and   onions   soak   in   salt  water  1  hour. 

Drain.     Add   vinegar,   sugar,  spices   and   cook  40   minutes.     Seal  in 

hot  jars.  Mrs.  Marvin  Rone 


CHILLI  SAUCE 

1  gallon  rip  tomatoes  2  tbsp  cinnamon 

i/2  gallon  onions  chopped  2  tbsp  ground  cloves 

2  cups  sugar  (brown)  2  tbsp  nutmeg 

4  tbsp  black  paper  2  tbsp  cayenne  pepper 

1  quart  vinegar  4  tbsp  salt 

Scald  and  peel  tomatoes,  cut  them  in  small  pieces  and  put  with 
all  the  ingredients  into  a  granite  saucepan.  Cook  very  slowly  for  3 
hours.     This  may  be  put  in  jars  and  used  later. 

Mrs.  O.  T.  Snow 


ROSE  PETAL  JAM 


This  is  a  recipe  used  in  Syria  and  is  not  generally  known  in  our 
country.  Most  of  the  rose  petal  jam  is  imported  from  Syria.  You 
must  use  a  very  low  flame  and  cook  over  an  asbestos  mat.  This  recipe 
came  from  Beirut,  Syria.     Use  fragrant  roses. 

Cut  the  rose  petals  in  quarter-inch  strips,  discarding  the  tough 
base.     In  measuring,  pack  them  tightly  in  the  cup  but  do  not  bruise. 

Cover  2  cups  of  cut  petals  with  2  cups  warm  water  and  cook  ten 
minutes  or  until  tender.  Lift  out  petals;  make  a  syrup  with  one  cup 
of  the  rose  petal  liquid,  two  and  2|3  cups  sugar  and  2  tablespoons 
strained  honey.  Cook  to  the  syrup  stage  or  to  220  deg.  F.  by  candy 
thermometer.  Add  the  drained  petals  and  cook  on  an  extremely  low 
flame  for  40  minutes.  Add  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice  and  simmer 
30  minutes  longer.  Heighten  the  jam  color  with  a  tiny  bit  of  rose 
food  coloring,  if  liked.     Pour  in  sterile  jars  and  seal  at  once. 

Mrs.   Roy  Burdettc,   Jr. 
79 


FRUIT  MINCE  MEAT 

1  peck  green  tomatoes  1  pt.  cider  or  weak  vinegar 
yz  peck  apples  1  tbsp  ground  cloves 

2  lemons  1  fcbsp  cinnamon 
4  pounds  brown  sugar  1  tbsp  nutmeg 

2  pounds  raisins  2  teaspoons  salt 
y2  lb.  candied  citron 

Chop  tomatoes,  apples  and  lemons.    Add  sugar  and  vinegar,  boil 

3  hours  and  20  minutes  before  taking  off  stove.     Add  other  ingredi- 
ents and  seal  in  hot  jars. 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 


FRENCH  PICKLES 


1  peck  green  tomatoes  sliced  1  teacup  salt 

6  large  onions 

Put  salt  over  tomatoes  and  ohions  and  let  stand  over  night. 
Drain  thoroughly,  Boil  2  quarts  water  and  1  quart  vinegar,  2  pounds 
brown  sugar,  y2  pound  white  sugar,  2  tablespoons  mustard  seed,  2 
tablespoons  cloves,  2  tablesponns  cinnamon,  2  tablespoons  ginger,  2 
tablespoons  ground  mustard,  1  tsp  cayenne  pepper.  Put  all  together 
and  cook  for  15  minutes  and  then  put  in  sterile  jars  and  seal. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Pennington 
Submitted  by  Mrs.  James  Cooper,  her  daughter 


APPLE  CHUTNEY 


(It  tastes  even  better  than  it  reads) 
2  qts  apples,  cut  in  small  pieces     Rind  of  2  oranges  finely  chopped 
2  lbs.  granulated  sugar  y2  cup  strong  vinegar 

2  cups  seeded  raisins  1|3  cup  pecan  meats,  chopped  fine 

Boil  all  the  ingredients  together  until  apples  and  nuts  are  tender. 
Place  in  sterile  jars  and  scald.     Delicious  with  chicken  or  game. 

Mrs.  James  Cooper 


SO 


MEATS 

'Stuff  it,  roast  it  and  baste  it  with  care; 
Daintily  then  the  gravy  prepare, 
While   'round  you  the  savory  odor  shall  tell 
Whate'er  is  worth  doing  is  worth  doing  well'. 


SOUTHERN  PIT  BARBECUE  FOR  100  POUNDS  OF  MEAT 
BEFORE  COOKED 

Stick  pork  shoulders  thoroughly  before  putting  on  pit,  flesh  side 
down  first,  then  when  your  meat  begins  to  get  about  half  done  begin 
to  use  the  dip,  and  continue  to  use  the  dip  frequently  until  meat  is 
done.  When  the  meat  is  thoroughly  done  the  bone  will  come  out. 
It  takes  approximately  eight  hours  or  more  to  cook  the  meat.  Use 
dry  oak  or  dry  hickory  wood.  Oak  bark  is  fine  if  you  can  get  it. 
The  meat  should  be  at  least  18  inches  from  the  coals — the  pit  should 
be  that  deep  and  about  the  same  width.  Put  iron  bars  crosswise 
and  stretch  wire  (1-inch  mesh)  over  bars  and  fasten  at  both  ends 
thoroughly.  The  wire  must  be  fastened  tight  or  the  meat  will  fall  in. 
Build  the  fire  in  pit  and  get  it  good  and  hot  and  have  all  coals.  Have 
another  fire  on  the  outside  to  make  coals  and  place  these  under  meat 
as  needed  with  long'  handle  shovel.  Do  not  allow  grease  to  catch  on 
fire.  If  it  does,  take  bottom  of  long  handle  shovel  and  smother  fire 
immediately  as  this  causes  meat  to  scorch.  Take  meat  off  fire  and 
place  on  chopping  board  and  cut  according  to  your  taste.  Keep 
barbecue  on  pit  at  all  times  and  warm  until  ready  to  serve.  100  lbs. 
of  meat  will  cook  down  to  50  pounds. 

DIP  FOR  100  POUNDS  MEAT  BEFORE  COOKED 

V/2  gallons  vinegar  Salt  to  taste 

1  box  cayenne  pepper  1/2  pound  butter 

1  box  black  pepper 

Place  over  fire  and  keep  hot  at  all  times  because  you  do  not  want 
meat  chilled  and  it  will  soak  in  better  if  hot.  If  dip  is  cold  it  will 
run  off.  Season  dip  according  to  taste  but  have  this  hot  because 
grease  will  kill  the  strength  of  the  pepper.  You  may  have  to  add 
more  pepper  as  you  go  along  to  overcome  the  grease. 

SLAW  FOR  100  POUNDS  OF  MEAT  BEFORE  COOKED 

15  lbs.  cabbage  shredded  3  qts.  (cans)  tomatoes  or  4  small 

5  lbs.  green  peppers  shredded  (No.  2)  cans— do  not  use  juice 

5  lbs.  onions  shredded  y2  gallon  vinegar 

Season  with  salt,  red  and  black  pepper  according  to  taste. 

L.  D.  Perkins 

81 


BRUNSWICK  STEW   (ABOUT  10  GALLONS)   NO.  1 

2  large  roosters  or  3  large  hens     12  cane  corn 

(if  roosters  used  use  lib.  butter)  12  cans  butter  beans 

2  lbs.  ground  veal  12  cans  tomatoes 

2  lbs.  ground  pork  1  gallon  onions  sliced 

1  peck  Irish  potatoes  sliced  8  cans  English  peas 

10  lbs.  shredded  cabbage  Salt,   red   and   black   pepper    to 

2  stalks  celery  cut  fine  taste 

Cook  chicken  until  it  falls  off  bone,  remove  bones,  add  ground 
meat  and  vegetables,  cook  until  vegetables  are  done  and  mixture 
thir-k — about  8  hours — stir  regularly.  (This  can  be  used  for  turtle 
stew  too). 

L.  O.  Woodson 


BRUNSWICK  STEW  NO.  2 

Put  in  cold  water  1  pound  each  beef  and  pork,  season  to  taste 
with  red  pepper  and  salt,  boil  until  very  tender,  then  add  about  1 
pound  cabbage  cut  fine,  one  can  each  of  tomatoes,  corn,  butter  beans 
and  cook  until  it  begins  to  get  quite  thick,  add  good  size  piece  of 
butter,  3  small  Irish  potatoes.  Serve  hot.  This  is  a  good  way  to 
use  left-overs.  A  fried  chicken  and  brown  gravy  stirred  into  this 
when  all  are  quite  well  done  makes  a  dish  fit  for  a  king. 

Mrs.  Marvin  Rone 


RABBIT  STEW 

6  rabbits  2  cans  okra  and  tomatoes 

3  pounds  stew  beef  1  can  corn 

4  pounds  neck  bones  1  can  lima  beans 

1  box  rice  Red  and  black  pepper  and   salt 

1  can  June  peas  to  taste. 

Cook  meat  until  tender  and  take  bones  out,  add  the  vegetables 
and  cook  again.     This  will  serve  about  16  people. 

L.  E.  Poteat 


KIDNEY  STEW 


4  Veal  Kidneys  cut  into  small  cubes.  Do  not  use  fat.  Soak  in  very 
salty,  water  for  one  hour  or  slightly  salty  over  ni^ht.  Drain  off 
and  rinse  once.  Place  in  stew  pan  and  cover  with  cold  water. 
Heat  slowly  and  skim  as  foam  rises.     When  all  foam  is  off  add 

2  medium  size  potatoes  diced   (1  heaping  cup) 

2  small  onions  diced   (y2  cup.  Boil  gently  until  potatoes  are  tender. 

Add  1  tablespoon  butter,  thickening  as  desired.  Serve  with  toast 
or  on  waffles. 

Mrs.  D.  W.  Prettyman 
(Grandmother  of  Mrs.  T.  P.  Fowler) 


82 


VEAL  STEW 

iy2  pounds  veal  with  small  piece  of  suet 
1  can  tomato  soup. 

Cook  meat  until  tender  and  take  fat  out  and  brown  it,  add  one 
tablespoon  flour  and  brown  in  the  fat.  Put  tomato  soup  into  the 
fat  and  let  .come  to  boil.  Pour  over  the  meat  which  has  been  cooked 
down  real  low  and  let  come  to  boil. 

Guy  H.  Miller,  Sr. 
(Submitted  by  Mrs.  G.  A.  Palmer) 


VEAL  LOAF 

iy2  pounds  veal    (ground)  Salt  and  pepper 

1  pound  pork   (rather  fat)  1  small  onion 

2  tablespoons  butter  1   grated  biscuit 
2  eggs  beaten 

Mix  with  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  work  together  good,  form  loaf  and 
put  in  greased  pan,  pour  cup  of  boiling  water  around  it  and  put  the 
butter  on  top.  Bake  from  1  to  V/2  hours.  When  dry  add  a  cup  of 
hot  water  to  make  brown  gravy.  Mrs.  H.  C.  Trexler 


VEAL  GOULASH 

2  lbs.  veal  cut  in  pieces  1-inch         ^4  pound  bacon 

square  Salt 

3  medium  onions  2  cups  sour  cream 
1  tsp  paprika 

Chop  bacon  and  onion  very  fine  and  cook  together  about  5  min- 
utes. Add  seasoning  and  veal.  Cook  on  low  until  meat  is  tender. 
Add  sour  cream  and  then  thicken  mixture  with  a  little  flour.  Serve 
on  toast  rings  or  hot  biscuits.  Mrs.  Mildred  Seaber 


MOULDED  CHICKEN  LOAF 

1  pkg.  lemon  gelatine  yz  tsp  salt 

1  cup  chicken  cut  in  small  pieces   1  cup  pecans  coarsely  chopped 
1  cup  celery  finely  chopped  1  green  pepper  finely  chopped 

V2  cup  stuffed  olives  finely  3  tbsp  vinegar 

chopped  Dash  of  cayenne 

1%  cups  boiling  chicken  stock        Itsp  scraped  onion 

free  from  fat.  Dash  Worsestershire   Sauce 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  boiling  water,  chill,  combine  remaining  in- 
gredients when  gelatine  is  slightly  thickened,  fold  chicken  mixture, 
turn  into  loaf  pan,  chill  until  firm.     Serve  in  slices. 

Mrs.  Marvin  Rone 


SOUTHERN  FRIED  CHICKEN 

Select  a  young  chicken  (l1/^  to  2  pounds).  Have  a  heavy  pan 
with  deep  fat,  roll  in  flour  with  salt  and  pepper  added;  place  in  hot 
grease,  dot  with  butter,  place  top  on  pan,  and  fry  until  a  golden 
brown.  Mrs.  W.  C.  Slate 

83 


BARBECUED  CHICKEN 

1  quart  vinegar  iy2  teaspoon  red  pepper 

1  teaspoon  black  pepper  1  tablespoon  salt-, 

Y2  teaspoon  sugar  Juice  of  2  lemons 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Bring  above  mixture  to  boiling  point.  Have  young  chickens 
dressed  and  put  in  small  flat  pan.  Pour  mixture  over  chicken  and 
bake  until  tender.  Add  tomato  catsup  after  chickens  are  about  half 
done.  Curry  Krider 


CHICKEN  LOAF 

1  Hen  (cooked  and  diced)  4  small  can  pimento 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  •  \y2  tsp  salt;  pepper  to  taste 

1  cup  cooked  rice  2  tbsp  onion  (I  use  onion  salt) 

3  cups  broth  or  milk  2  tbsp  green  pepper 

1  cup  small  peas  (optional  )  4  eggs  beaten  and  added  last 

Bake  one  hour  at  325  degrees.  Serve  with  Brown  Mushroom  Sauce: 
*4  cup  butter,  add  V*  cup  flour  and  brown,  add  1  can  mushroom 
soup,  also  one  pint  chicken  broth,  paprika,  lemon  juice   and  salt. 
(You  can  use  canned  chicken  soup  or  broth  if  you  run  short). 

Mr j.  fake  Kendleman 


4  INDIVIDUAL  CHICKEN  PD3S 

2  cups  diced  chicken  2  cups  chicken  stock 

y2  cup  sugar  peas  y2  cup  carrots 

1  cup  diced  Irish  potatoes  Pepper  and  salt 

y2  cup  diced  celery 

Line  pans  with  pastry,  put  in  mixture  of  chicken  and  vege- 
tables, cover  with  pastry.  Pour  stock  in  just  before  putting  in  oven. 
Dot  top  with  butter.     Bake  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Cooke 


CHICKEN  PATTIES 


2  cups  cold  chicken  1  cup  cream  sauce 

Grated   nutmeg 

Cut  chicken  into  small  cubes,  add  a  little  nutmeg,  stir  into  the 
cream  sauce,  heat  thoroughly  and  serve  in  patty  shells. 

Cream  Sauce:  1  tbsp  butter,  1  tbsp  flour,  1  cup  milk,  y2  tea- 
spoon salt,  dash  of  pepper.  Melt  the  butter,  being  careful  not  to 
brown  it.  Add  the  flour  and  stir  until  smooth.  Add  the  milk  grad- 
ually, stirring  constantly  until  it  boils,  season  and  use  at  once. 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 


CHICKEN  A  LA  KING  NO.  1 
Cut  chicken  meat  in  small  cubes.     Add  can  mushroom  soup  plus 
milk  enough  to  make  desired  amount.     Delicious  served  on  hot  bis- 
cuits. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Mauldin 
84 


CHICKEN  SALAD 

Meat  from  1  cooked  lien  cut  fine       6  hard  boiled  eggs 
1  cup  diced  celery  V2  CUP  diced  pickle 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Mix  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  O.  C.  Godfrey 


CHICKEN  A  LA  KING 
2  cups  chicken  (or  1  fowl)  cubed    Salt  and  red  pepper  to  taste 
34  green  pepper  1  tbsp  lemon  juice  or  brandy 

1  tablespoon  butter  flavoring 

2  tablespoons  flour  2  pimentos  and  ^  tap  nutmeg 
Yz  cup  cream 

Mix  flour  and  butter  with  a  little  broth  and  beat  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Cut  pimento  and  pepper  in  thin  slices,  mix  all  ingredients, 
add  broth  and  cream  and  put  on  to  cook,  when  boiling  add  lemon 
juice  or  brandy  flavoring  and  stir  costantly  until  thick.  Serve  on 
toast  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 


DRESSING  FOR  CHICKEN  OR  TURKEY 
Stale  bread,  eggs  beaten,  onion,  sage,  salt  and  pepper,  cold  corn 
bread,  butter  or  margarine,  broth. 

Cold  toast  and  stale  light  bread  broken  in  pieces,  about  ^  as 
much  corn  bread  as  white  bread,  eggs  according  to  amount  being 
made.  (I  use  5  or  6  for  my  family  of  5)  Onion  according  to  taste, 
(I  like  right  much),  cut  fine,  sage  to  taste.  If  broth  is  very  ri  '1 
you  will  not  need  too  much  butter.  Use  boiling  broth  to  wet  your 
bread.  Work  this  together  sjood  and  then  add  beaten  eggs.  Grease 
a  pan  and  make  dressing  into  patties  and  bake. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 


DEVILED  CRAB 

1  can  crab  meat  (T1/?  oz.)    (I  prefer  Harris  Prepared  Deviled   Crab 

Meat  as  it  is  already  seasoned). 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  (not  packed). 

Butter  or  margarine  about  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
2  e°'gs  well  beaten 
Salt 

Milk  enough  to  moisten  well.  Mix  and  bake  in  crab  shells  in 
oven  350  degrees  for  about  30  minutes.  Serve  with  following 
sauce : 

— Tartar  Sauce — 

Chop  olives  (about  12)  onion  from  bread  and  butter  pickles  and 
a  small  amount  of  the  cucumber  pickle  from  bread  and  butter 
pickles,  mayonnaise  and  thin  with  the  vinegar  over  these  same 
pickles.     Small  amount  of  horse  radish   if  available. 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 

85 


STEAKED  SPAGHETTI 

1  pound  ground  round  steak  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  spaghetti  V4  teaspoon  pepper 

1  cup  tomatoes  (and  juice)  Vi  cup  cracker  crumbs 

y2  cup  grated  cheese  2  tbsp  melted  fat 

1  small  onion  chopped 

Cook  spaghetti  in  boiling  water  until  tender,  drain.  Brown 
steak  and  onions  in  hot  fat  in  frying  pan,  add  spaghetti,  tomatoes 
and  seasoning.  Pour  into  casserole,  cover  with  cheese  and  crumbs. 
Bake  in  400  degrees  oven  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  Murray  Wagner 


SAUSAGE  MACARONI  CASSEROLE 

1  pkg.  macaroni  y2  teaspoon  salt 

y2  pound  sausage  meat  \y2  cups  milk 

1  small  onion  sliced  a/2  ft  cheese  grated 

2  tablespoons  flour 

Cook  macaroni  according  to  package  directions,  drain,  fry  sau- 
sage and  onion  until  light  brown,  stir  in  flour  and  salt,  add  milk, 
cook  over  low  heat  until  thickened,  stirring  constantly.  Place  alter- 
nate layers  of  macaroni  and  cheese  in  greased  \y2  quart  casserole. 
Pour  sauce  over  all,  top  with  cheese  and  bake  in  hot  oven  25  minutes. 

Mrs.   Alvah  Sides 


AMERICAN  CHOP  SUEY 


One  pound  ground  beef.  Brown  in  roaster  with  tablespoon  of 
fat,  add  1  can  of  tomatoes  (or  7  medium  sized  fresh  tomatoes),  1 
small  can  of  garden  peas,  2  cups  celery  (chopped  fine),  3  onions,  1 
green  pepper  (diced),  1  cup  uncooked  rice,  salt,  pepper,  and  paprika 
to  taste.  Cover  tight  and  cook  45  minutes  or  till  rice  is  done,  over 
slow  fire  If  tomatoes  do  not  furnish  enough  juice  a  little  water  can 
be  added — this  is  supposed  to  be  thick  but  not  dry  when  finished. 

Mrs.   Curry  Krider 


BAKED  TUNA  FISH 


2  cups  flaked  tuna  1   tbsp  chopped  pimento 

1  cup  dry  bread  crumbs  2  beaten  eggs 

2  tbsp  melted  butter  Use  salt,  pepper  and  celery  salt 
1  tbsp  lemon  juice  to   taste 

1  tbsp  minced  parsley  x/2  cup  milk 

Combine   and  bake  in   greased  shallow  baking  dish.     Brush  top 
With  melted  butter  or  salad  oil.       Bake  15  or  20  minutes  in  400  deg. 
oven.       Serve  with  almond  olive  sauce  made  as  follows: 
1  cup  medium  white  sauce  2  tbsp  sliced  stuffed  olives 

3  tbsp  mayonnaise  2  tbsp  toasted  almonds 

Slowly    stir    hot  white    sauce   into    mayonnaise,   add  olives    and 
chopped  almonds  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  James  Cooper 

86 


CREAMED  TUNA  FISH 

1  small  can  tuna  fish  3  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped 

1  small  can  tiny  peas  1   tablespoon  butter 

1  can  mushroom  soup 

Drain  liquid  from  fish,  and  juice  from  peas.  Cook  them  with 
the  soup  in  a  double  boiler  for  about  20  minutes.  Add  hard  boiled 
eggs  and  butter.  Serve  on  thick  slices  of  crisp  brown  rye  or  whole 
wheat   bread. 

Mrs    Walter  Carter 


TUNA  CASSEROLE 

1  can  tuna 

1  large  package  potato  chips 

1  can  Campbell 's  mushroom  soup 

Flake  tuna  and  put  layer  in  cafiserofe.  Spread  on  layer  of  soup, 
undiluted.  Cover  with  crushed  potato  chips.  Repeat  the  process 
until  all  ingredients  have  been  used.  Do  not  crush  potato  chips  too 
fine.  No  salt  is  needed  as  the  chips  furnish  the  right  amount.  Bake 
in  oven  350  degrees  for  30  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Addle  Rebm  Morris 


DEVILED  CRABS  NORFOLK 

Make  *i  white  sauce  by  mixing  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  but- 
ter and  1  tablespoon  of  flour;  add  Y>  euP  °f  cream  or  milk  and  let 
come  to  a  boil,  Stirling  constantly.  Add  salt  and  pepper.  Then 
add  1  pii*t  of  crab  meat,  two  chopped  hard  cooked  eggs,  sprig  r>f 
parsley,  dash  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  place  in  the  shells.  Brush 
with  melted  butter  and  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  ip  slow  oven  until 
well   browned. 

Mrs.  fames  Cooper 


TUNA  FISH  SOUFFLE 


1  can  tuna  2  cups  milk 

2  cups  white  sauce  y2  cup  flour 
2J3  cups  chopped  celery  l|3  cup  butter 
4  eggs  beaten  separately  1  tep  salt 

Mix  flaked  tuna,  white  sauce  and  celery.  Add  egg  yolks.  Fold 
in  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  in  baking  dish  and  cook  40  minutes  or 
until  firm.     Temperature  350  degrees.     Serves  12. 

Mrs.  f.  A.  Cooke 


PIG  IN  A  BLANKET 
1  lb.  of  weiners  y2  tt>«  cheese 

1  pan  of  weiner  rolls  a/2  tt>-  bacon 

Split  roll  lon»-  ways — split  weiners  longwise  and  fill  with  cheese, 
place  in  roll  and  wrap  with  bacon.  Put  in  pan  and  bake  in  oven 
until  brown. 

Mrs.  L.  D.  Perkins 
87 


SCALLOPED  OYSTERS 

1  pint  oysters  2  cupful  cracker  crumbs 
172  cupful  oyster  liquid  y2  cupful  melted  ^butter 

2  tbsp  milk  or  cream  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
V2  cupful  white  bread   crumbs 

Mix  bread  and  cracker  crumbs  and  stir  in  butter.  Put  a  thin 
layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  greased  baking  dish,  cover  with  oyster*  and 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  half  oyster  liquid,  and  cream. 
Repeat  and  cover  top  with  remaining  crumbs.  Bake  30  minutes  at 
400  degrees  F. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Yotmtz 


SHRIMP  WIGGLE 


1  can  shrimp  White  sauce 

1  can  tiny  English  peas 

Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  in  double  boiler  or  sauce  pan.  Add 
V-/-7  level  tablespoons  flour,  salt  to  taste.  When  a  paste  add  l1  '■> 
cups  sweet  milk,  cook  until  desired  thickness.  Add  shrimp  and  peas. 
Serve  piping  hot  with  hot  buttered  biscuit. 

Mn.  L.  D.  Perkins 


SWISS  RICE   AND  MEAT   BALLS 

i 1  ■>  lbs.  beef  1  beaten  egg 

1  2  lb.  pork  1  cup  bread  crumbs 

1  '■>  cup  sweet  milk  1  tsp  salt 

2  tsp  prepared  mustard  1    onion   chopped    fine 
18  tsp  pepper 

Mix    together,   form    into  meat    balls    and   brown    in    bottom    of 
Thrift    Cooker.     Then   add: 

4  cups  tomatoes  1  green  pepper  chopped 

1   largo  onion  chopped  1   cup  rice 

Cook  together  35  to  40  minutes.     Switch  high  until   steam  flows 
freely   through   vent.      Switch   low  until   done. 

Mrs.  Cnrrie  Cafes,  Jr. 


JIGGS  CORNED  BEEF  AND  CABBAGE 

Soak  brisket  of  corned  beef  in  cold  water  over  night  to  remove 
sharpness  of  the  salt  and  also  to  soften  the  meat.  When  ready  to 
cook,  place  the  corned  beef  in  pot  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Boil 
over  a  slow  fire  for  about  21  •_>  hours.  Do  not  season  as  the  meat  is 
-nfficientlv  salty.  After  the  beef  has  been  boiling  for  about  1  hour, 
add  a  head  of  cabbage,  a  few  medium  sized  carrots,  potatoes  and 
whole  onions.  At  the  same  time  also  add  1  whole  clove  a  few  bay 
leaves  and  several  pepper  seeds.  Cook  for  another  hour  and  a  half. 
Serve. 

George  McMauus 
Submitted  by  Mrs.  O.  C.  Sharpe,  Sr. 


SPANISH  ROAST 

2Vo  or  3  lbs.  roast  beef  (flat)  2  large  onions 

2  green  peppers  %  bottle  of  catsup 

Salt  and  pepper  to  season 
Put  roast  in  pan,  then  cut  pepper  in  rings  over  the  meat,  then 
sliced  onions  on  top  of  that,  then  pour  over  the  catsup,  add  IV2 
fups  of  water,  cover  with  the  top  of  the  roaster  and  put  in  oven  and 
bake  slowly  until  done.  Add  water  as  needed  so  as  to  have  some 
gravy.     When  all  is  done  then  thicken  gravy  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.   Viola  Kestler 


PORK  LOIN  ROAST 

Have  bone  cut  at  market  but  not  through  meat  about  1  inch  or 
between  each  rib.  Bake  meat  in  oven  and  at  regular  intervale  baste 
with  the  following: 

Y2  euP  water  2  level  tablespoons  vinegar 

1  level  tablespoon  sugar  1  level   tablespoon  butter 

1  level  tablespoon  mustard 

After  meat  is  done,  slice  through  the  meat  and  lay  chops  flat  in 
pan  and  pour  remainder  sauce  over  chops  and  brown.  My  original 
recipe. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Eagle 


STUFFED  ROUND  STEAK  ROAST 

Purchase  a  large  round  steak  at  least  an  inch  thick;  rub  in  as 
much  flour  as  it  will  take  and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pre- 
pare a  good  dressing  of  3  cups  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  two  eggs,  a 
large  onion,  salt,  pepper  and  two  tablespoons  of  shortening.  Cover 
the  steak  with  this  dressing ;  roll  up  and  tie.  Place  in  a  roasting 
pan  together  with  a  piece  of  suet  and  a  pint  of  water;  baste  often 
and  cook  until  tender,  which  will  take  a  couple  of  hours.  Garnish 
with  parsley.  Mrs.  S.  H.  Goosney 

Submitted  by  Miss  Bessie  Gosney,  her  daughter 


BEEF  CROQUETTES 

1  lb.  lean  beef  1  egg 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes,  seasoned   1  tbsp  parsley  chopped  (may  use 
1  tsp  salt  the   dehydrated  parsley) 

1  ■•>  medium  sized  onion  cut  very  Bread   crumbs 

fine 

Simmer  meat  in  small  amount  of  water  until  tender,  then  grind 
add  other  ingredients  (except  egg)  mix  well.  Form  into  balln,  dip 
in  beaten  osig,  which  has  been  mixed  with  1  tablespoon  water.  Roll 
in  bread  crumbs  and  place  on  board  and  let  stand  for  one  hour  (to 
let.  egg  coating  dry).  Cook  in  hot  fat  until  a  golden  brown.  Drain 
on  paper  towel.     Keep  warm  in  oven   until  served.    (Delicious) 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdettc,  Jr. 

89 


FRIED  COUNTRY  HAM 

Cut  ham  and  trim,  then  roll  with  rolling  pin.  Place  3  table- 
spoons of  lard  in  frying  pan,  place  ham  in  pan,  turn  often  to  keep 
from  becoming  hard,  fry  until  brown.  •  Pour  grease  into  bowl.  Set 
pan  back  on  stove,  pour  1  cup  of  hot  water  in  pan,  rinse  and  pour 
in  grease  and  you  have  brown  gravy. 

Mrs.  Sarah  Edmiston 


BEEF  STEW 

1  lb.  stewing  beef  4  to  6  potatoes 

1  medium  size  can  tomatoes  onions 

1  cup  water  1  tablespoon  flour 

4  to  6  carrots 

Cook  beef,  tomatoes,  one  sliced  onion,  and  water  for  IV2  hours, 
slowly.  Add  whole  carrots,  onions,  potatoes  and  continue  cooking 
until  tender.  Use  plenty  pepper.  Make  paste  of  flour  and  water 
and  add  if  desired.     Serves  four. 

Mrs.  Price  Snrratt 


CUBE  STEAK  CASSEROLE 

Roll  steak  in  flour,  fry  in  fat  until  almost  done,  remove  from 
fat  and  place  in  casserole,  cover  with  sage  and  chopped  onion,  mix 
one  can  mushroom  soup  and  one  can  of  water  over  steak.  Place  lid 
on  and  bake  45  minutes.  The  gravy  is  delicious  over  rice  or  mashed 
potatoes.  Mrs.  Alvah  Sides 


HAMBURGER    STEAK 

1  lb.  hamburger  1  tsp  salt,  pepper  to  taste 

2  cups  milk 

Mix  all  ingredients  thoroughly  and  make  into  Vo-inch  thick  cakes, 
have  frying  fat  hot  enough  to  fry,  place  meat  into  fat  and  brown, 
sprinkle  flour  in  pan  and  let  it  brown,  pour  boiling  water  over  meat 
and  place  lid  over  pan,  simmer  for  45  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Connell 


CHEESE-BEEF  CASSEROLE 

2  cups  macaroni  1  cup  grated  cheese 

2  tbsps.  butter  1  cup  chipped  beef 

IV2  tbsps.  corn  starch  Paprika 

Sweet  milk 

Place  2  cups  macaroni  in  salted  water  and  cook  until  tender. 
Pour  in  buttered  casserole.  Make  a  cream  sauce  by  placing  2  tbsps 
butter  in  frying  pan,  adding  V/2  tbsps  corn  starch  and  enough  milk 
to  make  a  sauce  of  desired  thickness  and  blending.  One  cup  grated 
cheese  and  1  cup  chipped  beef  that  has  soaked  a  few  minutes  in  wa- 
ter. Pour  this  over  the  macaroni;  sprinkle  with  paprika.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  30-40  minutes.  Mrs.  Tom  C.  Rosemond 

Winston-Salem,    N.    C. 
90 


NOODLES   AND  GROUND  STEAK 

2  heaping  cups  uncooked  noodles  1  cup  Grated  Cheese 

1  lb.  ground  round  steak  2  tbsps  Butter   (heaping) 

1  can  Tomato  Soup  1  cup  Water 

1  can  Corn  1  Onion 

1  can  Ripe  Olives 

Mince  and  fry  onion  in  butter  until  brown.  Add  meat.  Stir 
and  cook  until  brown.  Add  tomato  soup,  water  and  noodles.  Stir 
and  cook  until  tender.  Add  water  if  necessary.  Salt  to  taste.  Add 
corn  and  olives.  Pour  in  casserole,  sprinkle  with  cheese.  Cook 
45  minutes  in  350  oven.  Leave  in  oven  for  about  15  minutes  with 
heat  off  be  lore  serving. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Mauldin 


STEAK  PATTIES 

V  2  lbs.  ground  beef  2  tbsp  sugar 

6  slices   white  bread  or  1H  cups   3  tbsp  catsup 
bread  crumbs  1   tsp  salt 

1  cup  water  V2  cup  water 

3  tbsp  lard  or  bacon  fat  Pepper  to  taste 

2  tbsp  Worcestershire  Sauce  %  minced  onion 
2  tbsp  vinegar 

Moisten  crumbs  with  the  water,  add  ground  beef,  season  and 
mix  thoroughly,  forms  about  12  patties.  Brown  on  both  sides  in 
hot  grease,  add  remaining  ingredients  and  cook  for  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  James  C.  Eagle 


MEAT  LOAF— I 

2  lbs.  ground  beef  2  cups  bread  crumbs 

2  eggs  1  cup  milk 

1  tsp  salt  1|3  cup  tomato  catsup 

1  tsp  pepper  1    tsp   Worcestershire   sauce 

1  green  pepper 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  thoroughly  and  shape  into  a  loaf. 
Place  in  pan  and  bake  IV2  hours  in  moderate  oven  (350  deg.  F.).  Pan 
gravy  or   tomato  sauce  goes  well  with  this.     Serves  6. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Stoademire 


MEAT  LOAF— II 


1  It),  steak  and  1  9  ^-  fresh  pork   1  cup  cracker  crumbs 

ground  together  1   small  finely  chopped   onion 

2  eggs  beaten  lightly  1  tbsp  salt 

1   can  tomato  soup  y±  tbsp  black  pepper 

Mix  one-half  the  soup  with  the  other  ingredients,  then  shape 
into  loaf  in  loaf  pan.  Pour  remaining  soup  over  loaf  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  about  45  .minutes. 

Miss  Margaret  Tyson  Jones 

91 


MEAT  LOAF— III 

iy2  lbs.  round  steak  ground  2  eggs 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  1  green  pepper  chopped 

V%  lb.  pork  ground  Black  pepper  to  taste 

1  tsp  salt  2  slices  breakfast  bacon 

1  small  onion  (chopped)  1  No.  2  can  tomatoes 

Mix  ingredients  into  loaf.  Cover  loaf  with  bacon  strips.  Pour 
tomatoes  over  this  and  bake  1  hour  in  buttered  pan,  constantly  bast- 
ing loaf  with  tomatoes.     Slice  and  serve. 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Snider 


MEAT  LOAF  FOR  6  PEOPLE 

1  lb.  of  good  ground  beef  5  slices  of  bread  soaked  in  part 

\o  lb.  of  ground  pork  of  tomato  juice 

1  medium  can  of  tomatoes  Salt  and  pepper  and  pinch  of  sage 

1  small  onion  chopped  fine 

Mash  tomatoes  before  using,  mix  meat,  onion,  bread  and  season- 
ing together  then  make  into  a  loaf  and  put  in  a  small  oblong  pan  and 
cover  with  the  rest  of  tomatoes  and  a  little  water.  Bake  about  1 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done,  thicken  the  sauce  and  eat. 
over  the  slices  of  meat.     Add  water  if  needed  while  baking. 

Mrs.  Viola  Kestler 


VEGETABLE  MEAT  PIE 

2x/->  lbs.  of  boneless  step  beef.  Cook  well  done,  having  about 
2  cups  of  broth.  When  meat  is  done,  mix  with  following  vegetables : 
1  can  of  diced  carrots  1  can  of  tomatoes 

1  can  of  green  peas 

Cook  these  vegetables  together: 
6  medium  size  Irish  potatoes  diced  1  gi'een  pepper 
6  onions  4  stalks  of  celery 

Add  with  other  vegetables  and  meat,  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  chilli  powder.  Pour  in  baking  dish  or  pan  and  cover  with  pas- 
trv  and  hake  until  pastry  is  golden  brown. 

Mrs.  Hal  A.  Holt 


CHILLI  MEAT  BALLS 

1  i>  lb.  chopped  beef  1  tsp  salt 

Jo  lb.  chopped  pork  Vz  tsp  chilli  powder 

1  egg  chopped  1%  cnPS  bread  crumbs 

Onion  Green  pepper 

Mix  ingredients  thoroughly.  Soak  bread  crumbs  in  small  amount 
of  water.  Squeeze  out  and  add  to  meat.  Shape  into  balls.  Place 
in  baking  dish  with  V£  can  of  condensed  tomato  soup,  %  cup  of  wa- 
ter, i.*>  teaspoon  salt,  1  chopped  onion,  %  cup  chopped  green  pepper- 
Bake  for  50  minutes  in  oven  heated  to  350  degrees. 

Mrs.  Ervin  Lampert 
92 


CHICKEN  PIE 

1  large  hen  (cook  very  tender),  having  about  4  cups  of  broth 
when  done.  Remove  from  fire  and  cool  and  take  meat  from  the 
bones.  Line  a  2V2-inch  deep  baking  dish  with  your  favorite  pie 
crust.  Place  a  layer  of  chicken,  1  teaspoon  of  flour,  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  then  a  layer  of  pastry,  add  remainder  of  chicken,  season  as 
other  layer,  now  pour  over  the  broth  until  dish  is  filled,  then  top 
with  pastry  and  cook  for  an  hour,  temperature  450  degrees. 

Mrs.  Hal  A.  Holt 


MEAT  BALLS  A  LA  PINEAPPLE 

1  pound  round  steak  (have  it  ground) 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Make  into  patties  and  prap  strip  bacon  around  each  patty  and 
put  in  oven  and  broil.  Just  before  done  put  pineapple  ring  on  each 
patty  and  broil  until  brown  and  serve  on  hot  toast. 

Mrs.  T.  Fred  Henry 


BROWN  VEAL  CUTLET 

To  prepare  a  veal  cutlet  that  fairly  melts  in  your  mouth  is  an 
are  worth  your  attention.  First  cut  the  veal  into  small  pieces  and 
dip  it  as  usual  in  bread  crumbs,  beaten  egg  and  again  in  bread 
crumbs;  brown  the  cutlet  in  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  pour  over  it  the 
brown  cutlet  sauce  and  allow  it  to  simmer  for  about  an  hour  and  a 
half  or  until  tender.     The  sauce  is  made  as  follows: 

— Brown  Cutlet  Sauce — 

*4  tablespoon  butter  V2  CUP  stock  or  water 

y%  tablespoon  flour  *4  teaspoon  of  table  sauce 

l|8  teaspoon  of  salt  ^4  tbsp  chopped  parsley 

Prepare  as  any  brown  sauce,  by  browning  better,  adding  dry 
ingredients  and  blending  well.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  a 
small  quantity  of  the  liquid.  Blend  well,  and  add  the  remainder  of 
the  liquid.  Return  to  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  for  1  minute.  Remove 
and  add  the  table  sauce  and  parsley,  and  pour  the  brown  sauce  over* 
the  cutlet. 

Mrs.  Henry  Peterson 


93 


PIES  AND  PASTRIES 

'No  soil  upon  earth  is  so  dear  to  our  eyes, 

As  the  soil  we  first  stirred  in  making  mud  pies," 

'  She  may  dress  in  silk,  she  may  dress  in  satin, 

She  may  knop  the  language,  Greek  and  Latin, 

May  know  fine  art,  may  love  and  sigh, 

But  she  is  no  good  if  she  can't  make  pie." 


GOOD  PASTRY.  CRUST 


To  one  pound  of  Snowdrift  add  1  tablespoon  of  salt.  Sift  twice 
7  standard  cups  of  best  pastry  flour.  Chop  in  shortening  with 
knives  and  place  in  ice  box.  Use  when  wanted,  mixed  with  the 
smallest  quantity  of  ice  water.  iy2  cup  mixture,  use  2  cups  if  la/2 
not  enough   mixture.     Very  good. 

Mrs.  Dora  L.  Clingman 


PIE  CRUST 


1  cup  flour  4  tablespoons  shortening 

V±  tsp  baking  powder  y%  teaspoon  salt 

Add  ice  cold  sweet  milk  to  make  soft  dough  (about  ^4  cup). 
Keep  cool  as  possible  and  handle  lightly.  Roll  very  thin,  fold  over 
edges  several  times  and  roll  again.  This  makes  it  flaky.  The  milk 
makes  much  finer  pastry  than  water. 

Mrs.    George    Goodnight 


BAKING  DISH  APPLE  PIE 

Use  a  ten.  inch  baking  dish.  Line  bottom  with  V2  CUP  butter, 
creamed  with  2  cups  light  brown  sugar  and  V2  tsp.  cinnamon.  Slice 
baking  apples  (June  apples  are  best)  over  this.  Sprinkle  with  but- 
ter, brown  sugar  and  a  little  nutmeg  on  top.  Cover  with  rich  pastry. 
Bake  slowly. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  McCall 


STRAWBERRY  PIE 

1  qt.  strawberries  3  tablespoons  cornstarch 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  whipping  cream 

Reserve  half  of  the  berries  and  place' in  baked  pastry  shell. 
Mash  remaining  berries  until  juice  is  well  extracted.  Bring  to  boil- 
ing and  add  the  sugar  mixed  with  the  cornstarch.  Cook  slowly  for 
10  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Let  cool  and  pour  over  the  un- 
cooked berries  in  the  pastry  shell.  Place  pie  in  refrigerator  until 
very  cold.  Top  with  sweetened  whipped  cream  or  vanilla  mousse, 
preferably. 

Mrs.  Jas.  F.  Marsh 


94 


CITRON  CUSTARD 

2  cups  sugar  1  tblsp.  flour 

V2  cup  butter  V2  tsp.  lemon  and  vanilla  flavor- 

3  eggs  beaten  separately  ing   (each) 
1   cup  milk 

PECANS 
Combine  and  bake  in  uncooked  pastry  shells. 

Mrs.  N.  R.  Windsor 
Submitted  by  M]rs.  J.  S.  Eagle,  her  daughter 


BROWN  SUGAR  CUSTARD 

1  egg  V2  tblsp.  flour 

1  cup  brown  sugar  %  cup  sweet  milk 

y±  cup  butter  (scant)  Flavoring 

Mix  well  and  cook  in  uncooked  pie  shell. 

Mrs.  N.  R.  Windsor 
Submitted  by  Mjrs.  J.  S.  Eagle,  her  daughter 


MOLASSES  CUSTARD 

1/3  cup  molasses  1  piece  of  butter  about  size  of 

1/3  cup  boiling  water  egg 

r/-2  tsp.  soda  x/i  cup  flour 

Mix  and     pour     into  uncooked     Rub  together  and  sprinkle  over 

crust  above  mixture.  Bake  about  i/o 

V2  cup  sugar  hour  in   moderate   oven 

Mrs.  N.  R.  Windsor 
Submitted  by  Mjrs,  J.  S.  Eagle,  her  daughter 


LEMON  PIE 


2  cups  sugar  Juice  4  lemons — rind  of  one 

2  cups  boiling  water  2   tablespoons  butter 

4  tablespoons  corn  starch  5  egg  yolks 

Mix  sugar  and  corn  starch  together  and  add  boiling  water.  Cook 
until  it  thickens,  then  add  egg  yolks,  lemon  juice,  rind  and  butter 
and  cook  again  for  about  15  minutes.  Pour  in  baked  shell,  top  with 
meringue  made  from  egg  whites  and  use  1  tablespoon  sugar  to  each 
1  tsp.  vanilla,     Brown. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Wagner 


PINEAPPLE  CUSTARD 

94  cup  drained  crushed  pineapple  2  tablespoons  evaporated  milk 

1  box  brown  sugar  %  cup  butter 
3  eggs  Pinch  of  salt 

2  tablespoons  flour  or  corn  starch 

Mix  well  and  cook  in  uncooked  pie  shell. 

Mrs.  }.  B.  Wagner 

95 


CHERRY  CHIFFON  PIE 

1  tablespoon  plain  gelatin  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Vi  cup  cold  water  1/8  teaspoon  salt 

V/2  cup  pitted  cherries  y2  cup  whipping  cream 

%  cup  cherry  juice  V2  teaspoon  red  cake  coloring 

%  cup  sugar  1  baked  pie  shell 

Sprinkle  gelatin  over  cold  water  and  allow  to  soften.  Combine 
cherries,  juice  and  sugar.  Cook  about  five  minutes.  Stir  in  gelatin 
and  thoroughly  dissolve.  Add  lemon  juice  and  salt.  Chill.  When 
mixture  begins  to  thicken,  fold  in  cream  which  has  been  whipped  till 
stiff.  Pour  into  pie  shell  and  chill  until  set.  Decorate  with  halves  of 
cherries. 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Hughes 


COCOANUT  PIE  DE-LtTXE 

V2  cup  sugar  2  slightly  beaten  egg  yolks 

V2  cup  flour  2  tsp.  vanilla 

]4  tsp.  salt  1  tblsp.  butter 

3  cups  milk  1  baked  9-inch  pie  shell 

1  cup  shredded  cocoanut 

Combine  sugar,  flour,  and  salt  in  double  boiler,  add  milk  gradual- 
ly, stirring  until  smooth.  Add  %  cup  cocoanut.  Cook  over  rapidly 
boiling  water  15  minutes,  stirring.  Mix  small  amount  of  mixture  with 
egg  yolks,  return  to  double  boiler  and  cook  two  minutes  longer.  Re- 
move from  heat.  Add  vanilla  and  butter.  Turn  into  cooked  pie  shell. 
Sprinkle  with  remaining  *4  cup  cocoanut.     Top  with  meringue. 

Mrs.  C.  M.  Rives 
PEANUT  BUTTER  PIES 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  karo  3  eggs  1/3  cup  peanut  butter 

Cream  peanut  butter  and  sugar  together.  Then  add  karo  and  mix 
with  egg  beaten  together.     Then  bake  in  a  pastry  shell. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Aven 
Water  Valley,  Miss. 
(Sister  Mrs.  J.  M.  Moore) 


APPLE  CRISP  PIE 

(No  Crust) 

Butter  a  deep  pie  pan  well  and  into  it  put  as  many  peeled  cored 
and  sliced  apples  as  it  will  hold,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  pour 
over  a  small  amount  (about  \'o  cup)  of  water.  Make  a  crumbly  mix- 
ture of  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  V2  cup  butter,  \2  cup  floui*,  cover  apples 
with  this  mixture  and  press  down  firm.  Bake  as  for  other  pie,  except- 
ing occasionally  gash  through  crust  so  sugar  will  mix  with  apples. 
Cook  about  45  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Remove  I'rom  oven  a  short 
time  before  serving  (5  or  10  minutes)  and  serve  with  whipped  cream 
or  vanilla  ice  cream. 

Mrs.  /.  R.  Lowery 

96 


BROWN  SUGAR  PIES 

6  eggs  1  cup  milk 

1  lb.  brown  sugar  '       V^  lb.  butter 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  2  tsp.s.  vanilla  flavoring 

Heaping    tablespoon    flour 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  bake  for  30  minutes  in  pie  shell. 
Makes  2  pies. 

Mrs.  Gertrude  Bobbitt  Bray 
Submitted  by  Carol  Jacobs,  daughter 


BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE 

3  egg  yolks  4  tablespoons  flour 

IV2  cup  brown  sugar  1  pinch  salt 

2  ounces    butter  V/2  cup  sweet  milk 

3  teaspoons  vanilla 

Mix  butter,  sugar  and  flour  together.  Add  milk  and  well  beaten 
egg  yolks  and  cook,  until  a  thick  custard.  Stir  while  cooking  to  keep 
from  sticking  and  burning.  Make  crust  and  bake,  let  cool.  Put  in 
cooked  custard  and  cover  with  meringue  made  of  beaten  egg  whites 
with  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  brown  in  oven  until  golden  brown. 

Miss  Ida  Shuping 


PEACH  CREAM 


1  9-inch  baked  pastry  shell  1   tall  can  evaporated  milk,   un- 
1/3  cup  sugar  diluted  scalded 

1/3  cup  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla  or  a/2  teaspoon 

^4  teaspoon  salt  almond  extract 

2  eggs 

IV2  cup  sliced  canned  peaches 
Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt;  slowly  add  scalded  milk.  Cook  in  dou- 
ble boiler  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  small  amount  of  hot 
mixture  to  slightly  beaten  eggs  to  remaining  mixture.  Add  extract. 
Cool.  Place  layer  of  canned  peaches  in  bottom  of  baked  pastry  shell. 
Pour  cooled  filling  on  top  of  the  peaches. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Thornton 


PECAN  PIE 


1  cup  dark  corn  syrup  3  tbsps.  butter  melted 

3  tbsps.  sugar  Yz  tsp.  vanilla 

3  tbsps.  flour  2  egg  yolks,  well  beaten 

%  tsp.  salt  2  egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten 

Y2  tsp.  cinamon  V2  cup  coarsely  chopped  pecans 

Mix  ingredients.  Then  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Stir  in 
V2  cup  pecans.  Pour  into  pastry  lined  pie  pan.  Sprinkle  over  top 
V2  CUP  coarsely  chopped  pecans.  Bake  45  to  50  minutes  (370  F.)  or 
until  silver  knife  inserted  in  the  edge  of  filling  comes  out  clean. 

Mrs.  T.  R.  Burdette,  Sr. 
97 


EGG  CUSTARD 

3  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 

1/3  cup  sugar  1   teaspoon   vanilla 

Mix  together  2  cups  milk,  scalded  lightly.     Pour  in  first  mixture. 
Put  in  unbaked  pie  shell,  cook  slowly. 

This  recipe  is  my  great  grandmother's  and  is  much  more  than  one 
hundred  years  old. 

Mrs.  Henry  Carter 


SYRUP  CUSTARD 

4  eggs  beaten  light  2   teaspoons   cornstarch   dissolv- 

1  cup  sugar  ed  in  a  tiny  bit  of  water 

l1/2  cup  molasses  V2  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Lump  butter  size  of  an  egg  2  tbsps.  brandy  flavoring 

Bake  slowly  and  let  cool  before  cutting. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Strachan 


PECAN  PIE 


1  cup  syrup  3  eggs 

V2  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

4  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  of  pecan  meats 

Cook  syrup  and  sugar  together  until  thick.  Beat  eggs  without 
separating  until  light;  pour  the  hot  syrup  over  them,  add  butter  and 
vanilla.  Pour  into  an  unbaked  pastry;  drop  the  nuts,  in  large  pieces 
over  the  top.  Bake  in  hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  then  reduce  the 
heat  to  medium  and  cook  until  pastry  is  done  and  filling  is  firm. 

It  is  best  to  have  nuts  in  large  pieces;  they  toast  while  the  pie  is 
baking. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  McCall 


PINEAPPLE  CREAM  PIE 


Mix  1/3  cup  sugar,  l/i  cup  flour,  1/8  teaspoon  salt.  Stir  in 
2/3  cup  canned  milk,  2/3  cup  water.  Cook  and  stir  over  boiling  water 
ten  minutes.  Stir  slowly  into  2  beaten  egg  yolks.  Cook  and  stir  2 
minutes.  Remove  from  heat  and  cover.  Mix  together  1  cup  vanilla 
wafer  crumbs,  1  tbsps.  sugar,  2  tbsps.  butter.  Press  x/2  of  the  crumbs 
on  bottom  and  sides  of  pan.  Top  custard  with  V2  cup  pineapple.  Beat 
egg  whites  in  14  cup  sugar.  Spread  on  pineapple.  Cover  with  rest 
of  crumbs.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  325  degrees  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Thornton 

LEMON  CHESS  PIE 

1  cup  milk  i/2  cup  butter 

2  cups  sugar  5  eggs 

1  tablespoon  flour  Juice  and  grated  rind     1     large 

1  tablespoon  cornmeal  lemon 

Make  pastry  and  line  pans.  Pour  mixture  into  pans  and  bake  at 
350  degrees  until  done. 

98 


TRANSPARENT  PIE 

4  eggs 

2  cups  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

%  cup  butter 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add  extract.     Add  beaten  egg  yolks, 
and  then  beaten  whites.     Bake  in  a  pastry  shell  at  325  degrees. 


JEFF  DAVIS  PIE 


3  eggs  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  milk 

y<z   cup  butter  1  cup  plum  or  damson  preserves 

Line  pastry  shell  with  the  preserves  and  cOver  with  custard  made 
of  other  ingredients.     Bake  until  firm. 


VINEGAR  PIE 


2  egg  yolks  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

3  tablespoons  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 
1  cup  boiling  water  V2  tsp.  lemon  extract 
1/16  tsp.  salt  %  tsp.  mace 

1  cup  sugar 

Beat  egg  yolks  and  add  sugar  mixed  with  flour.  Add  vinegar  and 
butter  and  pour  into  boiling  water.  Cook  until  thick.  Add  salt  and 
flavoring  and  pour  into  baked  pie  shell.  Make  meringue  with  2  egg 
whites,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  and  1/8  teaspoon  cream 
of  tartar.     Spread  over  pie  and  bake  in  slow  oven  until  brown. 


JELLY  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  1  glass  jelly 

V2  cup  butter  Yolks  4  eggs 

1  tablespoon  flour  1   teaspoon   vanilla   extract 

Mix  all  of  the  ingredients  and  bake  in  pie  crust.  Beat  the  4  egg 
whites  and  add  12  tablespoons  sugar.  Spread  the  meringue  over  the 
pie  and  brown.     This  makes  one  large  pie. 

The  Ave  above  pie  recipes  are  very,  very  old. 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 


PINEAPPLE  PIE 


1  14-oz.  can  (1  2/3  cup)  crushed     2/3  cup  syrup  from  pineapple 
pineapple  1  beaten  egg 

2  tablespoons  sugar  16  marshmallows,  quartered 

3  tablespoons  flour  V.  cup  heavy  cream,  whipped 

Drain  pineapple.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and  dash  of  salt.  Add  pine- 
apple syrup:  blend.  Cook  over  low  heat  until  thick.  Add  small 
amount  to  egg,  stir  into  remaining  hot  mixture.  Cook  until  thick. 
Add  marshmallows.  Stir  until  melted.  Add  drained  pineapple.  Chill 
1  hour.  Fold  in  whipped  cream.  Pour  into  8-inch  pie  pan  lined  with 
x/%  cup  vanilla  wafer  crumbs,  mixed  with  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 
and  12  whole  wafers  upright.     Chill. 

Mrs.  Jas.  F.  Marsh 
99 


PINEAPPLE  PIE 

Vo  cup  sugar  3  eggs 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple        Butter  size  of  walnut 

Juice  of  1  lemon 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  juice  of  lemon,  then  pineapple 
and  butter.     Bake  in  pie  shell. 

Mrs.  C.  I  Scruggs 


PINEAPPLE  PIE 

Va  cup  flour  3  egg  yolks,  beaten 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  crushed  pineapple 

\\   teaspoon  salt  3  tbsps.  confectioner's  sugar 

2/3  cup  pineapple  juice  3  egg  whites 

1  cup  hot  water  Baked  plain  pastry  shell 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  and  salt  together.  Add  the  pineapple  juice  and 
water.  Bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  stirring  constantly.  Cook 
15  minutes,  over  hot  water.  Remove  from  fire,  add  butter  and  well- 
drained  pineapple.  Pour  this  mixture  on  the  egg  yolks  and  mix  well. 
Pour  the  filling  in  pie  shell,  cover  with  a  meringue  made  by  beating 
the  confectioner's  sugar  into  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  (325  deg.)  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  Osborne  T.  Snow 


SWEET  POTATO  PIE 

Mix  together  %  cup  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour,  x/2  teaspoon 
salt,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  Vfe  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Stir  in  l1/^  cup  mash- 
ed sweet  potatoes,  la/2  cup  canned  milk,  1  beaten  egg,  2  tablespoons 
dark  molasses.  Pour  into  deep  9-inch  pie  pan  unbaked  pastry.  Bake 
15  minutes  in  very  hot  oven  450  degrees.  Reduce  heat  to  slow  325 
degrees  and  bake  25  minutes  longer. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Thornton 


LEMON  OR  ORANGE  PIE 

Juice  and  rind  of  1  orange  1  cup  sugar  3  eggs 

Beat  yolks  good  and  add  V*  of  the  sugar,  rind  and  juice.  Cook  in 
double  boiler  until  thick.  Cool.  Beat  whites  until  stiff,  add  rest  of 
sugar.  Then  fold  in  Yo  of  the  whites  to  the  cooked  part.  Put  into 
cooked  crust  and  add  rest  of  the  whites  on  top  and  brown.     Good. 

Mrs.  Hill  C.  Trexler 


LEMON  PIE 

6  eggs  1  lemon  juice 

2  lumps  of  butter,  size  of  egg  1 '  2   cups   of  sugar 

Stir  butter  and  sugar  together  and  add  eggs,  2  whole  and  4  yolks 
(leaving  4  whites  for  meringue).  Add  lemon  juice  and  place  in  un- 
cooked pastry  and  cook.  Then  add  meringue  which  has  been  made 
with  the  4  remaining  whites,  beaten  stiff  with  4  large  tablespoons  of 
sugar.     Brown  in  oven.     Use  a  little  grated  rind  in  the  pies. 

Mrs.  John  E.  Ramsay 
100 


LEMON  TARTS 

4  eggs  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

2  cups  sugar  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Mix  as  usual  and  bake  in  muffin  pans. 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Burke 


PARK  LANE  LEMON  PIE 

V2   cup  minute   tapioca  2   tablespoons   butter 

2/3  cup  sugar  1/3  cup  lemon  juice 

V2   teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  lemon  rind 

3  cups  water  1  baked  9-incb  pie  sbell 

2  egg  yolks  slightly  beaten 

Combine  tapioca,  sugar,  salt  and  water  in  a  saucepan  and  mix 
well.  Bring  mixture  quickly  to  a  full  boil  aver  direct  beat,  stirring 
vigorously.  Add  butter,  lemon  juice,  and  rind.  Turn  into  pie  shell. 
Beat  2  egg  whites  until  foamy;  add  *4  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  at  a 
time,  beating  after  each  addition  until  blended.  Then  beat  until  the 
mixture  stands  in  peaks.  Pile  lightly  on  pie  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  (350  degrees)  15  minutes.     All  measurements  are  level. 

Miss  Abbie  Peeler 


LEMON  PIE 


Yellows  of  4  egg  (I  use  2  whites  but  recipe  does  not  call  for  that), 
7  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  1  dessert  spoonful  of  butter,  Juice  of  1 
lemon  (a  juicy  one).  Use  the  2  remaining  egg  whites  for  meringue. 
This  makes  one  pie. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  McCall 


LEMON  PIE 


2   tablespoons   cornstarch  2  eggs 

%  cup  sugar  Salt 

1  cup  boiling  water  Grated  rind  V2  lemon 

Vi  cup  lemon  juice  2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Combine  cornstarch  and  %  cup  sugar.  Add  water  slowly,  stir- 
ring constantly.  Cook  over  hot  water  stirring  constantly  until  thick 
and  smooth.  Add  slightly  beaten  egg  yolk,  butter,  lemon  rind  and 
juice,  and  a  few  grains  of  salt.  Cook  2  minutes.  Pour  into  baked 
pastry  shell.  Cover  with  meringue  made  of  the  egg  whites  and  2  ta- 
blespoons sugar.    Bake  in  slow  oven  (325  degrees)  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Currie  Cates,  Jr. 


NEVER  FAIL  CHESS  PIE 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  Vi  pound  butter 

3  eggs  4  tablespoons  evaporated  milk 

Use  any  good  pastry  recipe.     This  filling  will  make  15  chess  pies 
or  one  large  pie.    Bake  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  F.  Lemly 
101 


LEMON  FLUFF  PIE 

3  egg  yolks  */2  cup  sugar 

V±  cup  lemon  juice  1/8   teaspoon,  salt 

1  teaspoon  grated  lemon  rind  Pastry  shell 

3  egg  whites 

Beat  egg  yolks.  Add  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind,  cook  slowly 
until  rather  thick.  Cool  mixture  and  fold  in  egg  whites,  beaten  stiff 
with  sugar  and  salt.  Pour  into  baked  pastry  shell.  Bake  30  minutes 
at  325  F. 

Mrs.  Osborne  T.  Snow 


CHESS  PIES 


12  egg  yolks  1  pound  white  sugar 

%  pound  of  butter     (wash   out     1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
salt 
Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  and  beat  well.     Add  butter  and  beat  until 
light  and  fluffy.    Add  nutmeg.     Bake  at  250  degrees  F.  H.     This  will 
make  24  little  individual  pies.     They  are  delicious. Out  of  my  Auntie's 
cook  book  dated  1874. 

Mrs.  M.  T.  Owen 


9-INCH  VANILLA  CREAM  PIE 

2/3  cup  sugar  2  2/3  cup  milk 

2/3  tsp.  salt  3  egg  yolks 

2  2/3  tbsps.  cornstarch  2/3  tbsps.  butter 

1  1/3  tbsps.  flour  1 1/3  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  sugar,  salt  and  cornstarch  and  flour  in  top  of  double  boiler. 
Stir  in  milk.  Bring  to  boil  over  low  heat  and  boil  3  minutes  stirring 
constantly.  Remove  from  heat.  Stir  a  little  of  the  hot  mixture  into 
slightly  beaten  egg  yolks,  then  blend  into  hot  mixture.  Place  over 
boiling  water  and  cook  10  minutes  stirring  occasionally.  Blend  in 
vanilla.     Pour  into  cooled  baked  pie  shell. 

Mrs  .C.  H.  Thornton 


MILK  CUSTARD 

4  eci'irs  3  tablespoons  of  flour 

1    cup   sugar  V2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

3  cups  of  milk  Flavor  with   nutmeg 

3  teaspoons  of  butter  Bake  in  two  crust 

Recipe  of  Mrs.  A.  J.  Tilley 
Mother  of  Mrs.  W.  C.  Slate 


BROWN  SUGAR  PIE 
1  pound  of  brown  sugar  2  eggs,   (whole) 

V-l  pound  of  butter 

Cream  together  two  whole  eggs,  mix  thoroughly  and  pour  into 
crust.     Bake. 

Mrs.  G.  A.  Palmer 
102 


CRUSTY  PEACH  COBBLER 

3  cups  of  sliced  peaches  (fresh)      3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

^4  cup  of  sugar  1    tablespoon    sugar 

1   teaspoon  grated  lemon  peel  y2  cup  shortening 

1  teaspoon  almond  extract  y2  cup  of  milk 

1   tablespoon  lemon  juice  1  well  beaten  egg 

l1/}  cups  enriched  emergency  flour  2   tablespoons  sugar 

V2    teaspoon   salt 

Arrange  peaches  in  greased,  8-inch  square  pan.  Sprinkle  with 
mixture  of  y±  cup  sugar,  almond  extract,  lemon  juice  and  lemon  peel. 
Heat  in  oven  while  preparing  shortcake.  Sift  together  flour,  salt, 
baking  powder  and  1  teaspoon  sugar.  Cut  in  the  shortening  until 
mixture  is  like  coarse  crumbs.  Add  milk  and  eggs  at  once. Stir  until 
flour  is  moistened.  Spread  dough  over  hot  peaches.  Sprinkle  with 
2  tablespoons  sugar.  Bake  in  hot  oven  (400  degrees)  for  40  minutes. 
Serves  6  people. 

Mrs.  C.  1.  Scruggs 


PECAN  PIES 


3  cups  light  brown  sugar  3  eggs 

%  cup  melted  butter  1    teaspoon   vanilla 

"%  eup  sweet  milk  3  tablespoons  flour 

Beat  eggs.     Add  sugar.     Beat  well.     Add  flour  then  melted  but- 
ter, milk  and  flavoring.     Pour  in  shell.     Top  with  pecans. 

Mrs.  Alvah  Sides 


BUTTERMILK  CUSTARD 


V2  pint  fresh  buttermilk  %  cup  of  sugar 

1  egg  Piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut 

4V>  teaspoon  flour 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together.  Add  flour  and  butter  creamed  and 

buttermilk.     Flavor   with   lemon.  Bake   in   pie      pastry.     Very     old 
recipe.  Mrs.  Roy  Bttrdette,  Jr. 


COCOANUT  CHOCOLATE  PIE 

6  tablespoons  flour  2  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten 

%  cup  sugar  1  cup  of  shredded  cocoanut 

V2   teaspoon  salt  1   teaspoon   vanilla 

3   squares   of   chocolate,     cut  in     1  baked  nine-inch  pie  shell 

small  pieces  4  tablespoons  sugar 

2  cups  of  milk,  scalded  2  egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten 

Combine  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  chocolate.  Add  milk  gradually. 
Place  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thickened,  stirring  constantly. 
Pour  small  amount  of  mixture  over  egg  yolks,  return  to  double  boiler, 
add  cocoanut  and  cook  3  to  4  minutes  longer.  Add  vanilla.  Cool, 
Pour  into  pie  shell.  Top  with  meringue  made  by  folding  sugar  into 
egg  whites.  Sprinkle  cocoanut  over  meringue  and  bake  in  oven  12 
to  15  minutes  or  until  delicate  brown,  350  degrees. 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 

103 


EGG  PIE 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter  1  pint  of  milk 

3  tablespoons  sugar  2  eggs  (separated) 

1  tablespoon  flour 

Cook,  except  egg  whites,  over  low  heat.  When  slightly  thick 
pour  into  uncooked  pie  shell.  Cook  until  done.  Add  meringue  made 
with  egg  whites  and  3  tbsps.  sugar.  Put  on  pie  and  return  to  oven 
to  brown.     Recipe  has  been  in  my  family  for  over  a  hundred  years. 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Eagle 


CHOCOLATE  CREAM  PIE 

V±  cup  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  sugar  x/i   teaspoon   vanilla 

1 4  teaspoon  salt  1  nine-inch  baked  pastry  shell 

2  cups  scalded  milk  3  egg  whites 

3  slightly  beaten  egg  yolks  6  tablespoons  sugar 
2  1-oz.   squares  chocolate 

Mix  flour,  1  cup  sugar  and  salt,  melt  two  1-ounce  squares  unsweet- 
ened chocolate  in  scalded  milk.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick  stir- 
ring constantly.  Add  small  amount  of  hot  mixture  to  egg  yolks.  Stir 
into  remaining  hot  mixture.  Cook  2  minutes.  Cool,  add  butter  and 
vanilla  extract.  Pour  into  baked  shell  and  spread  with  meringue  made 
of  egg  whites  and  6  tablespoons  sugar.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (350) 
12  to  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  Ed  Lyerly 


A  KITCHEN  PRAYER 

(Good  Housekeeping) 

May  labor  make  me  glad, 
May  I  have  eyes  to  see 

Beauty  in  this  simple  room 
Where  I  am  called  to  be. 

The  scent  of  clean  blue  smoke, 
The  old  pans  polished  bright, 

The  kettle's  chuckling  joke, 
The    red    flame's    lovely    light, 

May  T  have  wit  to  take 

The  joy  that  round  me  lies, 

Whether  I  brew  or  bake, 
May  labor  make  me  wise ! 

104 


SALADS  AND  SANDWICHES 


Almost  anything1  that  you  can  find 

Will  make  a  salad  or  sandwich  to  suit  your  mind, 
Of  fruit  or  fowl,  or  flesh  or  fish, 

You'll  surely  find  here  the  one  you  wish. 


PEAR  SALAD 


1  cup  cottage  cheese  x/2  CUP  currant  jelly 

1  tbsp.  lemon  juice  1  tbsp.  gelatin  melted  in 

1  cup  cream,  whipped  1  cup  warm  water 

Salt  and  paprika 

Whip  together  cheese  and  jelly  and  add  lemon  juice,  salt,  and 
paprika.  Add  gelatin.  Whip  cream  and  fold  into  mixture.  Pour 
in  Kelvinator  tray  and  freeze.  Serve  a  rounded  tablespoon  on  each 
half  a  pear.     Place  pears  on  bed  of  lettuce  leaves. 

Mrs.  Mildred  Seaber 


MARSHMALLOW  SALAD 


z/\  pound  Marshmallows  cut  in  four  pieces 
1  large  can  of  pineapple  cut  in  cubes 

V-2  pound  English  walnuts     (after  shelled)    cut  in  pieces,   mix  into 
dressing  and  let  stand  2  hours  on  ice. 

DRESSING 

1  2  teaspoon  salt  oughly 

2  teaspoons  dry  mustard  Add  \'o  teaspoon  butter 

1  tablespoon  flour  Yolks  of  3  eggs   (beaten) 

1    tablespoon    sugar — mix    thor-     2V2  tablespoons  vinegar 

Cook  in  double  boiler  on  low  heat  (stirring  all  the  time)  until 
very  thick,  then  add  enough  plain  sweet  cream  to  beat  mixture  smooth. 
When  cold  add  V2  pint  of  cream  whipped  thick. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Pretty  man 
Contributed  by  Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 

FRUIT  SALAD 

1  can  white  cherries     (Stones  removed) 

2  grapefruit — 1  large  can  sliced  pineapple 
2  packages  lemon  Jello 

Cut  pineapple — cut  grapefruit  taking  out  pulp. 
Prepare  Jello  using  juice  from  fruits 

Boil  juice — Let  congeal,  serve  on  lettuce  with  a  spoonful  of  Mayonnaise 
dressing 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 


105 


TWELVE-HOUR  SALAD 

2  eggs  beaten  2  cups  sliced  diced  pineapple 

5  tablespoons  lemon  juice  V£  pound  cut  niarshmallows 

5  tablespoons  sugar  *4  pound  nuts 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  cream 

2  cups  white  cherries,  cut  in  half 

Put  eggs  in  double  boiler,  add  sugar  and  lemon  juice,  beating  con- 
stantly until  thick  and  smooth.  Remove  from  fire,  add  butter  and 
niarshmallows  and  cool. 

When  cold  fold  in  whipped  cream  and  fruit  mixtures.  Place  in 
molds  and  store  in  refrigerator  for  at  least  12  hours  before  serving. 
When  ready  to  serve  unmold  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  This  serves 
8  to  12,  according  to  servings. 

Mrs.  Jo  Schulenberger 


MARSHMALLOW  SALAD 


1   teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  mustard  Yolk  of  six  egus 

1  teaspoon  flour  1   teaspoon  butter 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

Mix  thoroughly  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Let  cool. 
Add  enough  cream  to  make  smooth.  When  cold  add  1  pint  cream 
whipped,  then  add  l1/^  pounds  marshmallows  cut  in  pieces,  three  cans 
sliced  pineapple  cut  in  pieces.  Mix  and  let  stand  on  ice  several  hours. 
When  ready  to  serve  add  1  pound  chopped  nuts.  This  will  serve  twen- 
ty plates. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Carter 


TOMATO  ASPIC  SALAD 


1  2/3  cup  tomato  juice  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

1   package  lemon  Jello  1/8  teaspoon  cloves 

1/8  teaspoon  pepper  1  teaspoon  salt 

Heat  tomato  juice  to  boiling  and  add  the  Jello,  then  dissolve.  Add 
seasonings  and  pour  into  individual  molds  or  one  large  salad  ring  and 
chill.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Jo  Schulenberger 


BANANA  FROZEN  SALAD 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  bananas  last) 

y2  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  crushed  pineapple 

2  tablespoons  mayonnaise  y2  cup  maraschino  cherries,  cut 

2  3-oz.  pkgs.  cream  cheese  into  quarters 

3  ripe  bananas,  cut  in  cubes  (add   1  cup  cream,  whipped 

Add  lemon  juice  and  salt  to  moyonnaise  and  stir  into  cheese.  Mix 
with  pineapple  and  cherries  and  fold  in  the  cream.  Turn  into  tray 
in  automatic  refrigerator  and  freeze  about  three  hours.  Serve  with 
crisp  lettuce  and  pecan  dressing.     Serves  10  to  12. 

Mrs.  R.  J.  Misenheimcr 
106 


PECAN  DRESSING 

Yolk  of  3  eggs  y2  tsp.  prepared  mustard 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  1  cup  pecans,  chopped 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  cup  whipped  cream 

1/8  tsp.  salt  8  marshmallows 

1/8  tsp.  paprika 

Put  egg  yolks,  vinegar,  salt,  paprika  and  mustard  in  sauce  pan  on 
low.  Stir  constantly  until  thick,  then  add  marshmallows,  cut  fine. 
Set  aside  to  cool.     Then  stir  in  nuts  and  whipped  cream. 

(I  use  a  small  can  of  pineapple  instead  of  2  tablespoonsful.) 

Mrs.  R.  J.  Misenheimer 


JELLO  AND  CREAM  CHEESE  SALAD 

1  pkg.  of  cherry  or  raspberry  x/2  ean  drained  fruit  salad 

Jello  (A  No.  2Y2  can) 

Dissolve  in  1  cup  hot  water  Let  set  till  firm 

Add  1  cup  of  cold  water 

Then  mix  1  package  of  lemon  Jello  with  one  cup  hot  water 

1  cup  of  fruit  juice  drained  from  the  can  of  fruit 

1  package  of  cream  cheese  and  4  tablespoons  of  mayonnaise 

Before  too  firmly  set,  pour  over  the  first  mixture. 

Repeat  first  mixture  and  pour  on  top 

For  valentine  cut  in  heart  shape — bridge  party  in  clubs,  hearts, 

spade  and  diamond 

If  St.  Patrick  Day  salad  is  desired  use  Lime  Jello  in  the  place 

of  cherry  and  cut  in  shamrock  or  any  shape  desired. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  Rattz 


FROZEN  PINEAPPLE  AND  MARSHMALLOW  SALAD 

1  cup  whipping  cream,  y2  cup  of  mayonnaise,  33/4  cups  crushed 
pineapple  with  juice  in  ean,  24  marshmaliows  quartered,  1  cup  shred- 
ded cocoanut.  Whip  the  cream  and  fold  in  the  mayonnaise.  Combine 
the  pineapple,  marshmallows  and  cocoanut,  and  also  fold  into  the 
mayonnaise  mixture.     Freeze  in  the  tray  of  an  automatic  refrigerator. 

Mrs.  Geo.  C.  Peeler 


CRANBERRY  SALAD  —  I 

1  can  cranberry  sauce  y2  cup  nuts 

1  orange  (seeded  and  ground,         1  pkg.  red  Jello 
including  rind)  1  cup  hot  water 

Whip  cranberry  sauce  until  smooth  and  then    add     orange     and 

nuts.     Congeal.  Mrs.  hula  B.  Carr 


107 


CRANBERRY  SALAD  —  II 

1  pt.  Cranberries,  grind  coarse        1  large  apple   (chopped  fine) 
1  Orange  rind,  grind  fine  2  Oranges  (juice  only) 

1  cup  s&gar  1  pkg.  Cherry  Jello 

1  cup  chopped  nuts   (use  a  few     1  cup  boiling  water 
more   because  I  like  nuts) 
Dissolve  Jello  in  boiling  water,  add  sugar  while  hot  and  orange 
juice.     Let  cool — mix  with  above  ingredients  and  congeal.     Serves  12. 
Make  in  molds.     (I  don't  make  mine  in  molds) 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 


CRANBERRY  SALAD  —  III 

1  envelopes  gelatin  wise,  and  trimming  off  all  white 

2  cups  ground — not  too     ripe —         skiu 

soft  cranberries  Juice  of  one  lemon 

2  cups  orange  chunks — cut  cross- 
Grind  cranberries  with  two  cups  sugar  over  two  cups  cranberries. 
Let  stand  an  hour  or  more.  Make  gelatin  with  juice  of  one  lemon 
and  4  cups  water  and  juice  from  oranges.  When  cool,  stir  in  orange 
chunks,  cranberries  and  sugar.  Also  one  package  broken  pecan  meats 
— large  package. 

Mrs.  E.  T>.  McCall 


CRANBERRY  SALAD  —  IV 

Wash  and  dried  on  towel: 
l1/^  cup  fresk  cranberries  put  through  medium  knife  food  chopper.     1 
cup  of    nuts  mix  in  1/3  cup  sugar,  1/8  teaspoon  salt,  chill  until 

needed,  dissolve  V2  package  lemon  gelatin,  1/3  cup  boiling  water,  chill 
until  syrupy,  steam  1/3  cup  Pet  milk,  chill  until  the  mixture  begins 
to  thicken,  beat  with  a  rotary  beater  until  fluffy.  Fold  in  cranberry,, 
mix  along  with  V2  CUP  apple  or  celery,  put  in  wet  molds. 

Mrs.  /.  R.  Satterfield 


1,  2,  3,  4,  SALAD 


Place  a  nice-sized  lettuce  leaf  on  salad  plate.  Dice  one  slice  of 
pineapple,  1  half  banana,  H  apple,  then  sprinkle  a  few  seedless  rais- 
ins, grate  about  half  a  medium  carrot,  then  grate  a  small  amount  of 
.sharp  cheese,  topping  the  cone-shaped  pile  with  as  much  mayonnaise 
as  desired.     Serve  at  once  With  saltines  and  coffee  or  tea. 

This  makes  a  whole  lunch  when  amount  prepared  is  to  suit  one's 
need. 

By  arranging  the  fruit  on  the  lettuce  as  it  falls  from  the  knife  in 
dicing  and  using  a  small  grater  held  over  the  fruit,  a  very  attractive 
arrangement  falls  naturally  into  shape.  As  the  name  implies  the 
amount  or  number  of  plates  can  be  prepared  according  to  need  with- 
out waste. 

Mrs.  L.  H.  French 

108 


v, 


GINGER  ALE  SALAD  —  I 

1  can  diced  pineapple  Juice  of  1  orange 

1  stalk  celery,  diced  Salt  to  taste 

1  25c  bottle  red  cherries  1  pint  ginger  ale 

Juice  of  1  lemon  1  package  gelatin 

Combine  and  congeal. 

Mrs.  Hay  den  Clement 


GINGER  ALE  SALAD  —  II 

1  envelope  of  gelatin   (plain)         34  cup  water 
*4  cup  of  orange  juice  Pinch  salt 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  1  cup  ginger  ale 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  cup  diced  fruits 

Dissolve  gelatin  in  *4  cup  cold  water  for  5  minutes.  Put  over 
hot  water  to  melt,  add  sugar,  lemon  juice,  salt  and  orange  juice.  Cool 
and  add  ginger  ale.  Put  in  refrigerator.  When  it  begins  to  set,  stir 
in  fruits  and  let  congeal. 

Mrs.  Milton  Gosney 


CRANBERRY  JELLY 


1  quart  berries  1^2  cup  water 

Cook  15  to  20  minutes,  add  2  cups  sugar  just  before  taking  from 
stove.  Strain  and  mold.  Long  cooking  makes  berries  bitter  and 
dark. 

Mrs.  James  C.  Eagle 


LIME  SALAD 


1  pkg.  Lime  Jello  Mj  cup  green  pepper     (chopped 

1  cream  cheese  fine) 

1  cup  celery  (chopped)  Vi  cup  onions  (chopped) 

1  cup  cucumber  1  tblsp.  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper 


Mix  and  congeal. 


Mrs.  Arnold  Kirchin 


LIME  SALAD 


1  pkg.  Lime  Jello  1  can  crushed  pineapple 

2  pkgs.  Philadelphia  cream  cheese    V2  cup  almonds 

Dissolve  Lime  Jello  and  mix  with  the  crushed"  pineapple.  Add 
cream  cheese,  then  chopped  almonds.  Makes  a  lovely  pale  green  salad. 
Be  sure  and  drain  pineapple.  Mrs.  James  Hobson 


CHERRY  SALAD 

1  package  Cherry  Jello  Sections  of  one  grapefruit 

1  can  of  black  cherries 

Mix  Jello  with  small  amount  of  hot  water,  using  cherry  juice  to 
eomplete  the  amount  of  liquid.     Add  fruit  and  mold. 

Miss  Julia  Groves 
109 


MARION  CLUB  SALAD 
(Book  Club  Amount) 


1  quart  cream  1  large  can  Royal  Am.  Cherries 

1  quart  mayonnaise  2  large  cans  sliced  pineapple 

1  box  gelatin  2  large  grapefruits 

3/4  cup  sugar  a/2  pound  almonds 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Soak  gelatin  in  pineapple  juice  and  add  sugar.  Melt  with  one 
pint  of  the  other  fruit  juices,  heated.  Whip  cream  stiff.  Cut  up 
fruit.  As  soon  as  gelatin  begins  to  congeal,  add  in  order.  Cream, 
mayonnaise,  cherries,  pineapple,  almonds  (blanched  and  halved)  and 
last  the  grapefruit  sections  and  salt.  Dip  with  ladle  in  order  to  get 
solid  matter  distributed  into  teacups  or  molds.  Place  in  refrigera- 
tor. (Looks  like  white  pop-corn  balls).  Serve  with  butter-thins 
spread  with  Roquefort  cheese  and  coffee.     A  good  spring  salad  after 

too  much  winter  chicken  salad.  Mrs.  Lillie  May  Burt 


FROZEN   SALAD 

3  cream  cheeses  1  cup  pimento  olives,  chopped 

1  cup  mayonnaise  1  can  diced  pineapple 

Pulp  of  three  oranges  1   cucumber,  diced 

1  pint  whipped  cream  A  little  onion  juice 

1  can  white  cherries 

Mix  and  freeze.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Hayden  Clement 


FROZEN  CHEESE  SALAD 

1  cup  grated  American  cheese         1  small  bottle  of  stuffed  olives 
1  cup  cream  cheese  (1  pkg.)  y2  pint  whipping  cream,  dash  of 

1   cup  salad  dressing  or  mayon-  paprika 

naise 
Cream  the  American  cheese  and  cream  cheese  with  salad  dressing 
or  mayonnaise;  beat  thoroughly  adding  cream,  which  has  been  beaten 
stiff;  add  a  dash  of  paprika,  fold  in  olives  which  have  been  sliced. 
Freeze.  Mrs.  Geo.  C.  Peeler 


CHICKEN  MAYONNAISE 


2  cups  minced  chicken  1  cup  mayonnaise 

1  cup  chopped  celery  1  envelope  plain  gelatin 

1  cup  small  peas   (English)  y2  cup  cold  water 

2  tbsps.  chopped  sweet  pickles  y2  cup  boiling  water 
4  hard  boiled  eggs  (chopped) 

Soak  gelatin  in  cold  water  5  minutes.  Add  boiling  water.  When 
dissolved  add  quickly  other  ingredients.  Save  peas  to  add  last.  Put 
into  molds  or  large  container.  Cool  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  more 
mayonnaise  if  desired.     This  serves  12. 

Mrs.  Hill  C.  Trexler 
110 


TOMATO  SOUP  SALAD 

1  tablespoon  Knox  gelatin  dissolved  in  x/-i  cup  cold  water 

1  can  Campbell's  tomato  soup 

Same  amount  of  water.     Bring  to  boil 

Put  in  3  cakes  Philadelphia  cream  cheese,  let  cool,  then  add  gelatin 

2  cups  chopped  celery 

I  green  pepper,  grate  1  onion.     Mold.  Mrs.  Hill  C.  Trexler 


FROZEN  PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

Cream    Yz  CUP  cream   cheese    (1     V2  lb.  niarshmallows,  cut  fine 
block)  1  small  can  crushed  pineapple 

Add  Vi  cup  salad  dressing 

Whip  y<i  pint  cream  until  stiff  and  fold  this  into  mixture.  Place 
in  refrigerator  trays  three  hours.  Serve  with  salad  dressing.  Top 
with  a  cherry.  Mrs.  Hill  C.  Trexler 


TOMATO  ASPIC  SALAD 

2  cans  tomato  soup  1  teaspoon  minced  green  pepper 

1  pkg.  Knox  gelatin  2  pkgs.  cream  cheese 

1  cup  chopped  celery  1  cup  mayonnaise 

1  teaspoon  minced  onion 

Heat  soup,  pour  over  gelatin  and  chill.     Mix  mayonnaise     with 
cheese,  add  tomato  mix  and  pour  into  molds.     Keep  over  night. 

Mrs.  Hill  C.  Trexler 


TOMATO  ASPIC 


2  cups  tomato  juice  or  V-8  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  Sauce 

1  pkg.  lemon  Jello  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1    tablespoon   gelatin  2  teaspoons  vinegar 

V2  onion  chopped  fine 

Dissolve  Jello  in  one  cup  of  warm  tomato  juice.  Add  other  cup 
of  juice,  onion,  Worcestershire  Sauce,  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar.  Dis- 
solve gelatine  in  small  amount  cold  water  and  add  to  mixture.  When 
placed  in  molds,  add  slices  of  olive  if  desired. 

Mrs.  Lewis  Harllitie 


MOLDED  SPRING  SALAD 

1  pkg.  lemon  Jello  x/2  tsp.  salt 

V2  cup  warm  water  2   tsps.   scraped  onion 

3/i  cup  beet  juice  Vfc  cup  cooked  diced  beets 

2  tsps.  vinegar  1  cup  shredded  cabbage 
%  cup  diced  celery  V2  cup  green  peas 

1  tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Dissolve  Jello  in  warm  water.  Add  beet  juice,  vinegar,  salt, 
onion,  and  lemon  juice.  Chill.  When  slightly  thickened  told  in  cele- 
ry, beets,  cabbage  and  peas.  Turn  in  mold  and  chill  until  firm.  Un- 
mold  on  crisp  lettuce  and  garnish  with  mayonnaise  or  dressing. 

Mrs.  Ctirrie  Cafes,  Jr. 

Ill 


J 


PIMENTO  ASPIC 

1  cup  of  pimento  V2  cup  vinegar 

2  cups  of  celery,  chopped  fine  *4  cup  of  sugar 

1  cup  of  nuts  (walnuts)  Juice  of  2  lemons 

y%  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  a     2  scant  teaspoons  of  salt 
cup  of  cold  water 
After  gelatine  is  dissolved  pour  y%  cup  of  boiling  water  and  when 
it  begins  to  set,  fold  in  with  a  fork  the  other  ingredients  mixing  all 
well. 

Mrs.  Geo.  C.  Peeler 


DILL  PICKLE  SALAD 

1  can  of  sliced  pineapple  iy2  cup  of  boiling  water 

%  amount  of  dill  pickle  V2  cup  vinegar 

1  pkg.  Lemon  Jello  Pimentoes   (small  amount) 

Chop  pineapple,  and  dill  pickles  into  small  pieces.  Also  chop  up 
pimentoes.  Pour  boiling  water  over  Jello,  add  vinegar.  Mold  and 
serve. 

Mrs.  James  Hobson 


PEA  SALAD 


1  can  small  garden  peas  2  boiled  eggs 

1  cup  chopped  celery  3  tablespoons  mayonnaise 

Drain  peas,  add  chopped  celery  and  chill,  add  eggs  and  mayon- 
naise and  serve. 

Mrs.  Zeb  V.  Trexler,  Jr. 


CONGEALED  TOMATO  SALAD 

1  can  Campbell's  Tomato  Soup       1  envelope  Knox  Gelatin  dissolv- 
1  pkg.  cream  cheese  ed  in  cold  water 

V2  cup  mayonnaise 

Add  cream  to  cheese,  enough  to  mix  well,  and  drop  into  hot  soup 
and  stir  until  completely  dissolved.  Add  chopped  stuffed  olives  and 
celery,  cayenne  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  in  molds  and  when  congealed 
serve  in  crisp  lettuce  with  highly  seasoned  home-made  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  W.  Gettys  Giiille 


TOMATO  ROSE  SALAD 

Firm  Tomatoes  Hard  cooked  e;j;g  yolks 

Cream  cheese  Watercress  or  lettuce 

Milk  French    dressing 

Peel  tomatoes  and  chill  them  slightly,  soften  cream  cheese  with 
milk.  Form  two  rows  of  petals  on  each  tomato  by  pressing  level 
teaspoon  of  the  softened  cheese  against  the  side  of  the  tomato,  then 
drawing  the  teaspoon  down  with  a  curving  motion.  Sprinkle  center 
of  each  tomato  with  hard  eooked  egg  yolk  pressed  through  a  strainer. 
Serve  on  crisp  watercress  or  lettuce  with  French  dressing. 

Mrs.  J.  Ed  Lyerly 

112 


HOT  POTATO  SALAD 

2  slices  bacon,  shredded  6  medium  potatoes,  cooked  (IV2 

2  Frankfurters,  sliced  thin  pounds) 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  small  onion,  sliced 

Vz  cup  vinegar  V2  cup  diced  celery 

y±  teaspoon  salt  4  ozs.  grated  Sheffords  cheese 

4  teaspoons  sugar  Sliced  tomatoes — parsley 

Saute  bacon  and  frankfurters  five  minutes.  Push  meat  to  the 
side  and  blend  flour  into  fat.  Add  vinegar  gradually.  Cook,  stirring 
constantly  until  smooth  and  thickened.  Mix  salt  and  sugar;  cook  ten 
minutes.  Keep  low  heat  while  adding  potatoes,  onions  and  celery, 
mix  lightly  and  keep  hot.  Add  cheese  just  before  removing  from  fire. 
Serve  hot,  garnished  with  sliced  tomatoes,  parsley.     Serves  four. 

Mrs.  Irma  Rosemond  Hand 


VARIETY  SALAD 


Dissolve  a  package  of  cherry  or  strawberry  Jello  in  a  pint  of 
boiling  water.  Cut  off  the  end  of  three  sweet  green  peppers  and  slip 
into  each  pepper  one  hard  boiled  egg.  Fill  in  around  the  egg  with 
the  Jello  (cooled)  and  place  in  refrigerator  to  harden.  Cut  in  slices 
with  sharp  knife.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  a  red  cross  cut  from 
pimento  placed  on  center,  which  will  be  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  with 
mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Roy  Biirdetfe,  Jr. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

Drain  juic©  from  1  can  white  cherries  and  1  can  sliced  pineapple 

1  pound  marshmallows,  cut  in  quarters.     Add"  one  cup  blanched  almonds,  dit, 

Cut  into  pieces  *>t  too  small.     Mlx  WUQ  tollowmg  dressing: 

Beat  four  egg  yolks,  add  1/3  cur,  milk,  stir  and  add  1  tsp.  salt,  V4  tsp. 

mustard,  juice  ]  lemon.     Let  come  to  boil  and  thicken  slightly.     Four 

very  hot  over  fruit      8et  away  until  next  day  before  serving.     Add 

1  cup  full  unsweetened  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  C.  C.  Holt 


LIME  FRIUT  SALAD 


2  pkgs  Lime  Jello 

1  can  fruit  cocktail     (Strain  to  remove  juice) 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple     (Strain  to  remove  juice) 

4  cups  juice  (finish  out  with  water  if  not  enough) 

1  pkg.  cream  cheese     (moisten  with  1  tablespoon  thick  cream,  dash 

of  salt. 

When  Jello  begins  to  thicken  like  cream,  put  in  molds.  Serve  with 
following  dressing:  %  pint  whipping  cream,  3  tablespoons  mayon- 
naise, 1  pkg.  cream  cheese,  %  cup  almonds  cut  fine. 

Mrs.  Hal  A.  Holt  ' 

113 


STUFFED  APRICOTS 

Drain  juice  from  can  of  whole  apricots,  remove  seeds  and  stuff 
with  1  package  cream  cheese  and  2  tablespoons  cream,  V2  cup  pecan 
meats  cut  fine,  10  Maraschino  cherries  chopped  up. 

Mrs.  H.  A.  Holt 


MARSHMALLOW,  PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

1  lb.  Marshmallows  %  lb.  nuts   (10c  pkg.) 

1  can  pineapple  cut  in  cubes 

Mix  with  following  dressing:  y2  tsp.  salt,  y2  tsp.  dry  mustard, 
1  tablespoon  sugar,  V2  tablespoon  but-ter,  1  egg,  2a/2  tsps.  vinegar. 
Cook  in  double  boiler,  add  enough  Pet  milk  to  make  smooth.  Whip 
XA  cup  cream  and  fold  in  first  mixture.     Serve  on  lettuce  as  salad  or 

in  dish  as  dessert.  Mrs.  Alvah  Sides 


GINGER  ALE  SALAD 

1  pint  bottle  ginger  ale  V2  cup  diced  celery 

2  tablespoons   gelatin    (y2   box)     4  tablespoons  diced  canned  pine- 
in  1/3  cup  cold  water  apple 

2  tablespoons  sugar  -2  tablespoons  preserved  ginger 

V-i  cup  lemon  ."juice 

Mix  seasoning  into  ginger  ale.  Melt  gelatin  over  boiling  water  and 
add  ale.  Pour  into  mould  and  when  it  begins  to  thicken  add  the  other 
ingredients,  let  stand  until  firm.  Serve  with  mayonnaise.  (The  pre- 
served ginger  mav  be  omitted.)  Mrs.  Marvin  Rone 


FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

1  tsp.  unflavored   gelatin  IV2  cups  diced  fruit 

2  tablespoons  cold  water  (Fresh     canned     or     candied 
%  cup  mayonnaise                                   cherries,    peaches,    pineapple) 

1  teaspoon  sugar  Lettuce 

2  cups  heavy  cream 

Sol  ten  gelatin  in  the  cold  water,  melt  it  over  steam  and  beat  it 
into  the  mayonnaise.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  cream  and  whip  it,  then 
combine  with  mayonnaise.  Stir  in  the  fruit.  Freeze  and  serve  on 
lettuce.     The  mayonnaise  may  be  omitted  and  served  separately. 

Mrs.  }.  Ed  Lyerly 


CUCUMBER  SANDWICH 

V2   Sandwioh   loaf  bread  1  cucumber 

1   teaspoon  onion  pulp  V2  small  head  white  lettuce 

Mayonnaise  V2  pimento  mashed  to  a  pulp 

Peel  cucumber  and  slice  very  thin.  Remove  crust  from  bread, 
spread  with  mayonnaise,  then  a  little  onion  and  pimento  pulp,  then 
sliced  cucumber  and  a  lettuce  leaf.  Nice  party  sandwich  to  accom- 
pany meat  salad. 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 

114 


GHERKINS  IN  BLANKETS 

Wrap  a  sweet  midget  gherkin  in  a  strip  of  bacon  and  spear  with 
a  toothpick.     Broil  until  bacon  is  crisp. 

Mrs.  Walter  Carter 


SWEET  SANDWICHES 

1  lb.  raisins  4  good  size  apples 

1  lb.  nuts  1  stalk  celery  (only  tender  part) 

Run  all  ingredients  through  food  chopper  except  the  apples.  Chop 
apples  fine,  add  enough  mayonaise  to  spread  easily. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Payne,  Washington,  D.C. 

Submitted  by  Mrs.  Will  Eagle 


RAISIN  SANDWICHES 


1  egg  beaten  lightly  Juice  of  1^2     lemon     and     rind 

1  cup  sugar  grated 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  very  thick.     Add  1  teaspoon  butter. 
Let  cool,  add  1  cup  mayonnaise  and  2  cups  finely  chopped  raisins. 

Mrs.  O.  R.  Pinkston 


WALDORF  SANDWICH 


1  tablespoon  minced  celery  1   tbsp.  finely  chopped  nuts 

1  tablespoon  minced  apple  1  tbsp.  minced  raisins 

Salad  Dressing 

Mix  celery,  apples,  nuts  and  raisins  with  salad  dressing,  spread 
thin  slices  of  whole  wheat  bread  with  butter.  Put  a  lettuce  leaf  on 
each  slice  and  fill  with  mixture. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 


SANDWICH  SPREAD 


A  small  amount  of  mayonnaise       1  small  pk,g.  of  cream  cheese 
1  cup  ground  raisins  Juice  of  1  lemon 

V2  cup  ground  nuts 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  put  in  jar  in  ice  box.     Use  as  wanted  on 
thin  slices  of  bread. 

Mrs.  Viola  Kestler 


HOT  CHEESE  SANDWICHES 

Melt  one  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  sauce  pan,  add  one  tablespoon 
of  flour  and«blend  thoroughly.  Break  one  egg  into  a  teacup  and  beat, 
fill  cup  with  sweet  milk  and  stir  into  the  butter  and  flour.  Cook  a 
few  minutes  and  stir  into  this  a  teacup  of  grated  cheese  and  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Cook  until  thick.  Butter  one  slice  of  bread  and  spread  the 
other  with  paste.    Toast  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Hughes 

115 


SAUCES  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS 


"What  Is  Good  For  The  Goose  Is  Good  For  The  Gander" 


FRENCH  DRESSING 


1    can   tomato   soup    (Campbell's     1  tablespoon  "Worcestershire 

condensed)  l1/^  CUPS  Wesson  Oil 

%  cup  vinegar  V2  CUP  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  onion  juice 

V2  teaspoon  paprika  1  teaspoon  mustard 

Y2  teaspoon  black  pepper 

Place  in  bowl  and  beat  until  well  blended.     Keep  in  fruit  jar 
and  shake  well  before  using. 

Mrs.  James  F.  Marsh 


UNCOOKED  DRESSING  FOR  SLAW 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  teaspoon  mustard 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  ^4  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  mayonnaise 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  stir  in  a  small  can  of  Pet  milk. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Cooke 


SALAD  DRESSING 


1  can  tomato  soup  1  teaspoon  paprika 

1^2  cups  vegetable  oil  1  tsp.  mustard  (prepared) 

%  cup  vinegar  1/3  cup  sugar 

2  teaspoons  salt 

Garlic  or  garlic  salt  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Mauldin 


RUSSIAN  DRESSING 


1  cup  mayonnaise  1  can  pimentoes  chopped  fine 

2  teaspoons  chili  sauce 

If  you  wish  a  small  amount  of  grated  cheese. 

Mrs.  Will  Eagle 


ACID  DRESSING 


1  egg  well  beaten  Blackpepper 

2  teaspoons  dry  mustard  Vo   teacup   vinegar   diluted   with 
1  tablespoon  sugar  a  little  water 

1  level  teaspoon  salt 

Let  vinegar  almost  boil,  pour  other  ingredients  in  and  beat  well 

while  cooking  thick.  Mrs.  Will  Eagle 

116 


THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING 

To  1  cup  of  mayonnaise,  add  1  cup  chili  sauce,  2  tablespoons  of 
sweet  and  sour  pickles,  1  or  more  chopped  onions. 

Mrs.  Will  Eagle 


WALDORF  SALAD  DRESSING 

1  egg  well  beaten  l1/^  tablespoon  of  sugar 

V2  of  small  can     of    milk     with     2  tablespoons  of  vinegar 
some  water 

Mix  all  and  cook,  stirring  constantly  until  thick. 

Mrs.  Will  Eagle 


DRESSING  FOR  RAW  VEGETABLES 

1  can  Campbell's  tomato  soup         1/3  cup  sugar 
y%  cup  vinegar  1  large  grated  onion  (sweet) 

x/%  cuP  salad  oil  or  less  Salt  and  pepper.    Shake  well 

Use  over  lettuce,  cucumber,  tomatoes  and  onions. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Trexler 


SALAD  DRESSING  FOR  POTATOES 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  mustard 

1  tablespoon  sugar  Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut 

1  tablespoon  flour  x/2  cup  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  salt  Vk  cup  water 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  smooth  to  paste  with  water,  add  vinegar, 
butter  and  the  egg  well  beaten.  Cook  over  slow  heat,  stirring  constant- 
ly until  thick.  Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 


RAISIN  SAUCE 


Melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  blend  in  2  tablespoons  of  cornstarch 
and  slowly  add  a  cup  of  water,  stirring  constantly.  Add  %  cup 
brown  sugar  and  ^  cup  seedless  raisins.  Cook  slowly  15  minutes. 
Then  add  V±  cup  of  orange  juice,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a 
lemon  and  a  flick  of  salt.  This  sauce  has  a  rich  fruity  tingle  and 
is  good  over  a  square  of  luncheon  meat. 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 


FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

1  cup  pineapple  juice  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  egg  1  cup  whipped  cream 

1  teaspoon  sugar  Juice  of  y2  lemon 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  flour  and  pineapple  juice.  Cook  until 
thick.  Cool.  Just  before  serving  add  lemon  juice  and  whipped 
cream.     Serve  on  acid  fruits. 

Mrs.  Marvin  Rone 
117 


CREAM  SAUCE 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  of  milk 

1  tablespoon  flour  Vz  teaspoon  salt,  dash  of  pepper 

Melt  the  butter,  being  careful  not  to  brown  it.  Add  the  flour 
and  stir  until  smooth,  then  add  the  milk  gradually,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  it  boils.     Season  and  use  at  once. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Eagle 


LEMON  SAUCE 


2  cups  sugar  8  tablespoons  butter 

4  tablespoon   cornstarch  6  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

4  cups  boiling  water  Pinch  of  salt 

Mix  the  sugar  and  cornstarch.  Add  the  water  gradually,  stir- 
ring constantly.  Boil  5  minutes.  Remove  from  flre,  add  butter  and 
lemon  juice,  salt.     Serve  hot. 

"Serve  with  Swansdown  one  egg  cake". 

Mrs.  Arthur  Allen,  Pascagoula,  Miss. 

(Sister  Mrs.  J.  M.  Moore) 


BRANDY  SAUCE 

XA  cup  butter  2  egg  yolks 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  2  egg  whites 

2  tbsps  brandy  flavoring  y2  cup  milk  or  cream 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  then  brandy  flavoring 
very  slowly,  well  beaten  yolks,  and  milk  or  cream.  Cook  over  hot 
water  until  mixture  thickens,  and  pour  on  to  beaten  whites. 

Miss  Mary  Tilley 


BARBECUE  SAUCE 


V-i  cup  butter  2y2  tbsp  condiment  sauce 

1  tbsp  lemon  juice  1   tablespoon  sugar 

y%  teaspoon  paprika  Dash  cayenne 

Melt  butter  in  sauce  pan.     Add  remaining  ingredients,  stir  well. 
Heat  thoroughly.     Makes  about  y2  cup. 

Mrs.  Robert  P.  Lemmon 


CUCUMBER  SAUCE 


y2  cup  cream  2  tablespoon  vinegar 

y±  teaspoon  salt  l1/^  cups  chopped  cucumber 

Pepper 

Beat  cream  until  stiff.  Fold  in  Seasoning  and  add  vinegar  grad- 
ually. Then  fold  in  cucumber  which  has  been  peeled,  chopped  and 
drained.  Chill  thoroughly  in  refrigerator  before  serving.  Good 
with  sea  foods — Shrimp,  Lobster  or  Crab. 

Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 
118 


COCKTAIL  SAUCE  FOR  OYSTERS,  CRAB  AND  SHRIMP 

6  tablespoons  Worcester  Sauce 
6  tablespoons  Tomato  Catsup 
Lemon  juice,  salt  and  paprika  to  taste 
V2  teaspoon  tobasco 
Serves  6  persons 

Mrs.  Henry  Peterson 


TARTARE  SAUCE 


1  cup  Mayonnaise   dressing  1  tsp  finely  chopped  capers 

1  tsp  mustard   (paste)  1  tsp  finely  chopped  pickles 

1  tsp  finely  chopped  parsley  Vk  tsp  onion  juice 

Add  ingredients  to  the  mayonnaise  in  the  order  given;  stir  well 
and  serve  very  cold. 

Mrs.  Henry  Peterson 


SAUCE  FOR  SALADS 

1  can  tomato  soup  V2  CUP  Wesson  oil 

3/4  cup  vinegar  y2  tsp  black  pepper 

1  teaspoon  salt  J/2  cup  sugar 

y2  teaspoon  paprika  1  tablespoon  onion  juice 

1  tbsp  Worcestershire  sauce  1  tsp  dry  mustard 

Shake   all  ingredients    together   until   thoroughly  blended.     Use 

over  green  salads,  grapefruit  and  avocado  salad,  etc. 

Mrs.  Ervin  Lampert 


LEMON  WHIPPED  CREAM  SAUCE 

4  tablespoons  lemon  juice  4  tablespoons  sugar 

1  grated  lemon  rind 

Combine    these  ingredients,    let   stand    until   thoroughly    chilled 
and  then  add  %  cup  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Eagle 


119 


VEGETABLES 

"All  human  history  attests 
That  happiness  for  man — 
The  hungry  sinner — 
Since  Eve  ate  the  apple, — 
Much  depends  on  dinner!" 


COLD  SLAW  WITH  CREAM  DRESSING 

%  cup  evaporated  milk  3  tablespoons  vinegar 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  cabbage  (finely  shredded) 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

Chill   milk   and  beat   milk   and  vinegar  until  it   thickens.     Add 
seasonings  and  pour  over  cabbage.  Mrs.  L.  M.  Sharpe 


COLD  SLAW 

3  cups  grated  cabbage  1  tablespoon  mustard 

1  medium  size  carrot  2  tablespoons  sugar 

%  cup  vinegar  V2  teaspoon  salt 

Vi  cup  mayonnaise  y2  teaspoon  black  pepper 

Crisp  cabbage,  scrape  carrot.  Let  this  stay  in  water  10  minutes. 
Mix  together  and  serve.  Mrs.  Ed.  Ketchie 


CORN  STUFFED  PEPPERS. 

6  large  green  peppers  x/2  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

2  tablespoons  butter  V2  tsp  chopped  green  pepper 

3  tablespoons  flour  */2  cup  grated  cheese 
I1/-!  cups  of  milk  V\  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  corn  V±  teaspoon  paprika 

1   teaspoon   chopped  onions  l|3  cup  crumbs 

Wash  peppers  and  cut  out  and  discard  pulps  and  seeds.  Rinse 
in  cold  water.  Melt  butter  and  add  flour,  when  blended,  add  milk  and 
cool  until  creamy  sauce  forms.  Stir  constantly.  Add  corn,  and  sea- 
soning. Mix  well  and  stuff  pepper  cases.  Mix  cheese  and  crumbs 
and  sprinkle  over  tops  of  peppers.  Set  side  by  side  in  small  pans 
and  add  half  inch  of  water.     Bake  35  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  O.  Spencer 


STUFFED  TOMATOES 
Scoop  out  insides  of  solid  ripe  tomatoes.     Salt  cavity  and  turn 
upside  clown  for  30  minutes.     Place  in  muffin  rings  and  stuff  with 
fresh  corn,  chips  of  crisped  bacon  and  a  little  chopped    onion     and 
green    pepper.     Add   dash  of  sugar.     Bake   till   tender. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  McCall 
120 


RISOTTO 

1  cup  uncooked  rice  1  can  tomatoes 

y2  lb.  grated  cheese  1  tbsp.  oil  or  butter 

1  bell  pepper,  chopped  1  tsp.  salt 

1  small  onion,  chopped 

Boil  rice  in  boiling-  water  for  15  minutes.  Saute  onions,  pepper, 
and  tomatoes  in  oil  for  5  minutes.  Drain  rice.  Put  a  layer  of  rice  in 
casserole,  sprinkle  with  a  layer  of  cheese,  and  then  sauce.  Alternate 
layers  until  disli  is  full,  having  last  layer  covered  with  cheese.  Cover 
casserole  and  cook  20  minutes  at  350  degrees.   Serves  6. 

Mrs.   Price  Surratt 


ASPARAGUS  CASSEROLE. 

1  can  asparagus  %  cup  cracker  crumbs 

3  or  4  eggs  (boiled)  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste 

1  cup  grated  cheese  1  cup  rich  cream  sauce 

Grease  baking  dish  put  in  layer  of  asparagus,  layer  of  sliced 
eg2?,  sprinkle  with  cheese  and  cracker  crumbs  and  cream  sauce.  Re- 
peat with  cheese  and  craker  crumbs  on  top  layer.  Cover  with  cream 
sauce  and  bake. 

SAUCE :  One  tablespoon  of  butter,  twi  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
cream  these  two,  stir  into  it  slowly  a  pint  of  milk,  season  with  salt 
and  dash  of  pepper. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  Rattz 


STUFFED  EGGPLANT 


1  large  eggplant  %  cup  milk 

6  slices  cooked  bacon  1  medium  onion 

1  egg  Salt  and   pepper 

li/2  cup  bread  crumbs 

Cut  eggplant  lengthwise.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  con- 
tinue to  boil  for  10  minutes.  Scoop  out  pulp  and  mix  it  with  the 
crumbs,  beaten  egg,  finely  chopped  onion,  salt,  pepper,  and  crisp 
bacon  broken  into  small  pieces.  Moisten  with  milk  that  has  been 
heated.  Fill  eggplant  shells  with  mixture  and  bake  y2  hour  in 
moderate  oven,  350  degrees  F. 

Miss  Helen  Mullis 


HARVARD  BEETS  I 


Mix:     y2  cup  sugar  Add:.    1|3  cup  vinegar 

1  tbsp  cornstarch  1|3   cup   boiling  water 

y2  tsp  salt 
Cook  the  above  until  sauce  is  clear.     Add  2  cups  freshly  cooked, 
drained   and  diced  beets.     Keep  beets   and  sauce   in   a   warm   place 
for  30  minutes.     Add  2  tablespoons  butter  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Jas.  F.  Marsh 
121 


HARVARD  BEETS  II 

Mix  one-half  cup  sugar  and  one-half  tablespoon  flour.  Add 
one-half  cup  vinegar  and  boil  for  5  minutes.  Add  one  No.  2  can  of 
beets  (or  equivalent).  Let  stand  on  back  of  stove  till  ready.  Add 
two  tablespoons  butter  just  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Mauldin 



GRATED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

2  large  sweet  potatoes  2  tbsps  butter 

Vz  CUP  sugar 

Grate  the  potatoes  on  coarse  grater.  Add  sugar  and  melted 
butter.  Cook  at  once — do  not  let  stand.  Bake,  piled  up  loosely  in 
shallow  baking  dish,  in  slow  oven  about  30  minutes.  Should  look 
like  cocoanut  and   be  orange  color. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  McCall 


CANDIED  YAMS. 

3  medium  potatoes   (baked)  4  tablespoons  butter 

y2  cup  sugar  %  cup  water 

J/2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Peel  and  quarter  potatoes,  and  place  in  shallow  pan.  Sprinkle 
sugar  and  cinnamon  over  potatoes.  Cover  potatoes  with  butter. 
Pour  water  in  pan  (to  cover  bottom  of  pan),  and  bake  in  oven  350 
degrees.  Mrs.  /.  M.  Moore 


BAKED   MACARONI  AND  CHEESE 

1  cup  cooked  macaroni  2  eggs   (well  beaten) 

1   cup  soft  bread  crumbs  1    tsp.   chopped   green   pepper 

1  tsp.  chopped  onions  1  tbsp.  butter 

V/2  cup  milk  Salt  and   pepper 

1  cup  grated  cheese 

Combine    all    ingredients.  Season      to      taste.     Pour    into    well 

greased  baking  dish.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  375  deg.  F.  about  45 
minutes.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Thornton 


BAKED   MACARONI  and  CHEESE— II 

Add  slowly  IV2  cups  Elbow  Macaroni  to  2  quarts  of  salted  boil- 
ing water.  When  macaroni  is  soft  and  tender,  wash  in  cold  water 
and  drain  well. 

Butter  heavily  a  casserole  or  baking  dish  that  will  hold  one 
quart  of  mixture.  Beat  together  2  eggs  (large.  1  pint  milk  and  y% 
teaspoon  salt. 

Put  half  of  egg  mixture  in  casserole.  Add  half  of  macaroni. 
Add  good  layer  of  cheese  (about  Vilb. ).  Add  remainder  of  egg  mix- 
ture, then  remainder  of  macaroni,  then  top  with  another  layer  of 
cheese   (about  %lb.).     Bake  at  350  deg.  F.  for  35  minutes. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Hackett 

122 


BAKED  SQUASH 

Mash  cooked  hot  squash  with  small  amount  of  butter,  2  01  3 
teaspoonfuls  cream.  Add  salt,  pepper  and  either  a  little  grated 
onion  or  small  amount  of  onion  salt.  Cover  top  with  crumbs.  Bake 
in  greased  casserole  till  nicely  browned. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Mauldin 


BAKED  SQUASH— II 

Boil  yellow  squash  until  tender.  Mash  hot,  place  in  bottom  of 
baking  dish  with  salt,  pepper  and  melted  butter,  as  needed.  Spread 
a  cream  sauce  over  the  top  and  spread  V2  CUP  grated  plain  cheese 
over  cream  sauce.     Bake  slowly  for  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  McCall 


I 


STUFFED  SQUASH 

Boil  yellow  squash  whole.  Halve  them  and  scoop  out.  Mash 
scooned  meat  and  add  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  rolled  salted  pea- 
nuts. Stuff  halves  and  spread  browned  bread  crumbs,  browned  in 
butter  on  top.     Brown  in  oven. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  McCall 


PIMENTO  SQUASH 

Six    medium    yellow   squash   steamed    until   tender.     Then    choo 
very  fine  and  add  to  Pimento  Base. 

— Pimento  Base — 
2  tbsps.  butter  1    onion 

2  chopped   pimento  2  tbsps.  flour 

1  small  can  condensed  milk  and     2  cups  bread  crumbs 
enough  water  to  make  1  cup   Salt  and   pepper 
Melt  butter  and  cook  onion  and  pimento  in  butter  about  3  min- 
utes.    Add  flour  and  cream  and  cook  until  the  mixture  is  thick.  Add 
chopped  squash  and  bread  crumbs.     Place  in  a  baking  dish,  top  with 
bread  crumbs  and  butter,  and  slightly  brown  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Mildred  Seaber 


STEAMED  SQUASH 

6  or  7  cooked  squash,  chopped  fine      Add  this  to  sauce 
3  hard  cooked  eggs  2  cups  bread  crumbs 

— White  Sauce — 
3  tbsp  butter  1  medium  onion   (chopped) 

1  tbsp.  flour  1  cup  cream 

Salt  and  pepper 

Cook  onion  and  butter  together.     Add  flour,  cream,  and  season- 
ing.    Cook  to  a  medium  sauce  consistency. 

Mrs.  Currie  Cafes,  Jr. 
123 


OLD  TIME  TURNIP  SALAD 

Wash   salad  good.     Fry  out  fat  meat.     Put  salad  in  pot   with 
water,  and  pour  hot  grease  over  it,  salt  and  cook  until  tender. 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Waddell 


HOT  VEGETABLE  CASSEROLE 

4  medium  potatoes  iy2  tsp  salt 

1  can  peas  and  carrots  1  tsp  chopped  onion   (if  desired) 

21/2  tbsps  butter  iy2  cups  milk 

5  tbsps  flour 

Peel  and  boil  potatoes  20  minutes.  Cut  in  thin  slices,  drain  peas 
and  carrots,  reserving  half  liquid.  Arrange  layer  of  potatoes  in 
buttered  casserole,  cover  with  half  of  peas  and  carrots,  sprinkle 
with  half  of  flour,  salt  and  onion,  dot  with  butter.  Repeat  this 
procedure.  Top  pith  layer  of  potatoes.  Dot  with  butter.  Add  V2 
cup  vegetable  liquid  to  milk,  pour  over  potatoes.  Bake  40  minutes. 
Serve.  Mrs.  Alvah  Sides 


BLACK  WALNUT    AND    MARSHMALLOW  YAMS 

G  large  yams  1  tbsp  cooking  sherry 

2  tbsp.  butter  V2  cup  milk  (or  cream) 

2  tbsp.  sugar  2|3   cups   chopped   black   walnute 

lVo  teaspoon  salt  Marshmallows 

Boil  the  yams  with  skins  on,  then  peel  and  mash.  Add  butter, 
sugar,  salt,  sherry  and  milk  or  cream,  and  beat  until  fluffy.  Add 
black  walnuts,  and  pile  in  a  buttered  casserole.  Bake  5  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Then  cover  top  with  marshmallows,  about  1  inch 
apart.     Return   to  oven  until  golden  brown. 

Mrs.  Marvin  Rone 


KRAUT  AND  DUMPLINGS 

1  pt.  flour  Vi  teaspoon  salt 

1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Sift  and  mix  well,  then  break  one  egg  and  add,  stir  in  enough 
cold  water  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Have  kraut,  to  which  seasoning 
has  been  added  and  enough  broth  to  cover  dumplings,  boiling.  Drop 
dumplings  in  with  a  tablespoon,  let  boil  20  minutes  with  lid  of  pot 
cracked.  Mrs.  N.  R.  WiA&or, 

Submitted  by  Mrs.  J.  S.  Eagle  or,  her  daughter 


ASPARAGUS  CASSEROLE 
Use  layer  of  mushroom  soup  in  bottom  of  casserole.  Add  layer 
of  cut  asparagus.  Add  layer  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut.  Then  salt 
and  pepper.  Use  another  layer  of  soup  and  another  layer  of  aspar- 
agus. Cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  butter.  Cover  with  asparagus 
broth.  Bake  for  20  minutes.  Take  out  of  oven  and  cover  top  with 
pecans,  return  to  oven  and  bake  until  brown. 

Mrs.  Raymond  Deane 
124 


SWEET   POTATOES   AND  PINEAPPLE  CASSEROLE 

6  medium  size   sweet   potatoes        Brown  Sugar 

2   tablespoon   butter  4  or  5  slices  pineapple 

a/4  cup  pineapple  juice  Marshmallows 

Cook  potatoes  in  boiled  salted  water  until  soft.  Drain  and  peel, 
mash.  Add  butter  and  pineapple  juice  and  beat  until  light  and 
smooth.  Half  fill  baking  dish  with  potato,  cover  with  layer  of 
wedge  shaped  pieces  of  pineapple  and  marshmallows  cut  in  halves. 
Fill  dish  with  potato  and  lay  slices  of  pineapple  on  top.  Sprinkle 
with  brown  sugar.  Place  whole  marshmallows  in  holes  of  pineapple 
slices.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  marshmallows  brown  and  melt 
slightly.  Mrs.  Roy  Burdette,  Jr. 


RED  APPLES 
9  apples,  peeled   and   cored  1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  water  Juice  of  2  lemons 

Red  Coloring 

Boil  slowly  until  tender.  Mrs.  C.  W.  Smith 


CHILLI  BEANS 


2  tbep  melted  butter  1  cup  chopped  onions 

1  lb.  ground  beef  1  can  tomato  juice 

2  small  or  1  large  can  pork  and     2  tbsps  chilli  powder 

beans   (or  left  over  beans)        1  tsp  salt 

Brown  beef  and  onions  in  butter,  add  other  ingredients  and  cook 
20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Zeb  Trexler,  Jr. 


BAKED  TOMATOES 

Select  smooth,  ripe  tomatoes.  Use  a  grapefruit  knife  to  cut  stem 
end  and  hollow  out  seeds  and  pulp,  being  careful  not  to  cut  through 
the  skin.  Cut  the  pulp  fine  adding  seeds  and  cut  up  an  onion  very 
fine  to  this  add  salt,  pepper  and  small  amount  of  sugar.  Grate 
bread  crumbs.  (Use  cold  buttered  toaet  if  any  left  over).  Fill  to- 
matoes with  a  layer  of  crumbs  and  then  the  above  mixture,  alter- 
nately until  all  used.  Place  about  1  teaspoon  margarine  or  butter 
in  each  tomato  as  you  fill  it.  Bake  in  oven  375  degrees  until  the 
tomato  is  tender. 

Mrs.  Will  Eagle 


POTATOES  EN  SURPRISE 

Season  one  pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes  with  1  tbsp  of  buffer, 
1  tsp  salt,  Y^  tsp  celery  salt,  l|4  tsp  pepper  and  a  few  grains  of 
cayenne.  Add  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Cool  lightly  and  add  the 
yolk  of  one  egg.  Shape  in  balls,  fill  center  with  creamed  chicken, 
peas  or  sweetbreads.  Shape  as  potatoes.  Dip  in  crumbs,  eggs  and 
crumbs  again.     Fry  in  hot  fat. 

Mrs.  Henry  Peterson 
125 


RECIPE  FOR  COOKING  "KONFEEL  PEAS" 

Gather  y'r  peas  'bout  sundown.  The  folwin  day,  'bout  leven 
o'clock  gowge  out  you'r  peas  with  yo'  thum  nale,  like  gowgin  out 
a  man's  eyeball  at  a  Kotehouse  Rinse  y'r  peas,  parbile  'em,  then 
fry  'em  wid  sum  slices  uv  streekt  middlinn,  mcouragin  uv  the  gravy 
to  seep  out  and  intermarry  wid  yo'  peas.  When  moderately  brown, 
but  not  scorcht,  empty  into  a  dish.  Mash  'em  gently  with  a  spoon, 
mix  wid  can  termatars,  sprinkle  wid  a  little  brwn  sugar  and  the 
the  immortal  dish  am  quite  ready.  Eat  mo  and  mo.  It  fattens,  you 
up  and  makes  you  sassy,  goes  thro  and  thro  yo'  very  soul.  But  eat 
on,  eat.  Stop  never  while  thar  is  a  pea  in  de  dish.  (Given  bv  an  ex- 
slave  in  South  Carolina). 

Copied  from  an  Old  Cook  Book 


WOMAN'S  SPHERE 

KATE  FIELD 


They  talk  about  a  woman's  sphere  as  though  it  had  a  limit; 

There's  not  a  place  in  earth  or  heaven, 

There's  not  a  task  to  mankind  given, 

There's  not  a  blessing  or  a  woe, 

There's  not  a  whispered  "yes"  or  "no", 

There's  not  a  life,  or  death,  or  birth, 

That  has  a  feather's  weight  of  worth 

Without  a  woman  in  it. 


126 


RECIPE  FOR  A  DAY 

MRS.  JACK  N.  VAIL 

Take  a  little  dash  of  water  cold, 

and  a  little  leaven  of  prayer, 
And  a  little  bit  of  sunshine  gold, 

dissolved  in  the  morning  air. 

Add  to  your  meal  some  merriment 
and  a  thought  of  kith  and  kin, 

And  then  as  your  prime  ingredient 
a  plenty  of  work  thrown  in. 

But  spice  it  all  with  the  essence  of  love 

and  a  little  whiff  of  play; 
Let  a  wise  old  Book  and  a  glance  of  love, 

complete  the  well  made  day. 


HOW  TO  COOK  A  HUSBAND 


Mrs.  G.  A.  Brown,  Watervalley,  Miss. 

"Many  a  good  husband  is  spoiled  in  the  cooking.  Some  women 
keep  them  constantly  in  hot  water,  while  others  freeze  them  with 
conjugal  coldness ;  some  smother  them  with  contention  and  still  others 
keep  them  in  pickle  all  their  lives.  These  women  serve  them  with  ton- 
gue sauce.  Now  it  is  not  to  be  supposed  that  husbands  will  be  tender 
and  good  if  treated  in  this  way,  but  they  are,  on  the  contrary,  very 
delicious  when  managed  as  follows :  Get  a  large  jar,  called  the  jar 
of  carefulness,  place  your  husband  in  it,  and  put  him  near  the  fire  of 
conjugal  love;  let  the  fire  be  pretty  hot,  especially  let  it  be  clear; 
above  all,  let  the  heat  be  constant.  Cover  him  with  affection,  garnish 
him  with  the  spices  of  pleasantry  and  if  you  add  kisses  and  other 
affections,  let  them  be  accompanied  with  sufficient  portion  of  secrecy, 
mixed  with  prudence  and  moderation." 


Compliments 

Of 

H.  E.  HATLEY  GROCERY 

East  Spencer,  N.  C. 


FLOORS: 

RUBBER  TILE 
ASPHALT    TILE 
CORK   FLOORS 

BATH  ROOMS: 

CONGO  WALL 
MASONITE  WALL 
LUMTILE  WALL 

CABINET  TOPS 

Back      Bars,     all     Colors, 
Chrome  Trimmed 
—We  Install— 


HEATING 
PLUMBING 

ELECTRICAL   WIRING 
AUTOMATIC  KLEER 
KLEEN   FLOOR 

FURNACES: 

GENERAL    MOTORS 
DELCO  HEAT 
STEAM  HEAT 
VAPOR  HEAT 
FORCED  HOT  WATER 
PACKAGE      UNIT      AIR 
CONDITIONING 


OWENS  HOUSING  EQUIPMENT  COMPANY 

325  W.  HARRISON  STREET  PHONE  318 


Compliments 

Of 

PEPSI  COLA  BOTTLING   COMPANY 

Salisbury,  N.  C. 


NEWS 

Local  —  National  —  International 

WHILE  IT'S  NEW 

More  Than  15,000  Families 

READ  THE  POST 

— Daily  and  Sunday — 

Phone  2100 


Comparison  Will  Prove  The  Greater  Worth  And 
Value  of  Our  Fine  Jewelry 


CHIN*  CROVt         /■ — )  /     V.  k  -  HOftTH  CARCMJNA 


ROBERTS  JEWEL  SHOPPE 

China  Grove,  N.  C.  Phone  160 


Compliments 

Of 

OESTREICHER'S 

' 'One  of  Carolina's  Finest   Stores" 


Compliments 

Of 

BELK  -  HARRY  COMPANY 

DEPARTMENT  STORE 

Salisbury,  N.  C. 


ISENHOUR    BRICK  &  TILE  CO. 

Common  Brick  —  Hollow  Building  Tile 
P.  O.  Box  1249     Salisbury,  N.  C.     Phones  3966, 3967 


STOUDEMIRE    FURNITURE 
STORE 

Spencer,  N.  C.  —  Phone  1106 


LINGLE  ELECTRIC  REPAIR  SHOP 

Motor  Winding  And  Repairing 
Phones — Salisbury  751  Day 

Granite  Quarry  651  Night 


Compliments 
Of 

THE 

BRANDT'S  GRO- 

KIDDIE SHOP 

CERY 

ARNOLD'S 

"Your  Guide  to  Better  Fashions" 
Salisbury,  N.  C. 


"The  Home  of  Good  Furniture" 

R.  W.  NORMAN  CO.,  INC. 

Salisbury,  N.  C. 


BURTON  MACHINE  &  WELDING  SHOP 

Electric  and  Acet3^1en  Welding — Machine  and  Auto 

Repairing — Portable  Equipment 

We  Go  Anywhere  Any  Time 

Odell  Henderson,  Manager 

Phone  3559-J        Spencer,  N.  C.        Third  Street 


PHONE  256 
RICKMAN  MANUFACTURING  CO.,  INC. 

Manufacturers  of 

Tea  Shirts,  Baby 's  Wear  and  Sports  Wear 

Mrs.  Mary  Rickman,  Pres.,  Genl.  Mgr 

215  E.  Council  St.,  Salisbury,  N.  C. 


FLOWERS 
FOLTZ  FLORIST 

POTTED  PLANTS CORSAGES  —  DESIGNS 

DISH  GARDENS  AND  CUT  FLOWERS 
WEDDINGS 

"SEND  FLOWERS"  —  PHONE  3175W 


Compliments 

of 

BENTONS    CLEANERS 


When  You  Think  of  Peanuts  or  Peanut  Products 

Think  Of 
"RED  BEAVER" 

Spencer,  N.  C.  Phone  3461 


Compliments 

Of 

BRANNOCKS  SHOE  SERVICE 


SPENCER  GROCERY  STORE 

Foods 

You  Will  Enjoy 

Eating 


BLACKWELDER   BROS.    BARBECUE 

(Formerly  Johnny  Blackwelders) 

''Better    Sandwiches'' 

— Curb  Service — 

209  S.  Main  St.     Salisbury,  N.  C.    304  Depot  St. 

Compliments 

Of 

THOMAS    AND    HOWARD 

Distributors  of 
Del  Monte  Coffee  and  Aunt  Jemima  Flour 


All  Railroad  Employees: 

When  You  Want  Health  And  Accident  Insurance 

Also  Hospitalization  —  See 

SAM   T.   TREXLER 

General  Agent  and  Claim  Service 
The  Provident  Insurance  Co.,  Chattanooga,  Tenn. 


SOUTHERN  AUTO  SERVICE 

Corner  2nd  St.  &  Salisbury  Avenue 

Tires — Tubes — Batteries — Accessories 

Phone  3449 


Compliments 

Of 

WYATTS  BARBER  SHOP 


WESTVIEW  DAIRY 

Rural  Phone  5706 

Grade  A  Milk  —  Pastuerized 

Ralph  Brown 


CAROLINA  MUSIC   COMPANY 

Operators  of  Automatic  Phonographs 
New  And  Used  Records  For  Sale 
Phone  314        Salisbury,  N.  C.      115  E.  Fisher  St. 


PET 


DAIRY  PRODUCTS  CO. 


GOODMAN  LUMBER  COMPANY 

Architectural  Woodwork 
Salisbury,  N.  C.  Phones  305—306—307 


R.  M.  HOLT  &  SON 


PHIL'S  FAMILY  SHOE  STORE 


—  btyjt 


fwppe 

204  South  Main  Street  107  W.  Fisher  Street 

Salisbury,  N.  C. 


RANEY  -  MILLER 

Chevrolet  —  The  Leading  Car 


It  Costs  Less 
At 
STERCHI'S 

To  Furnish  Your  Home 
127  S.  Main  Street  Salisbury,  N.  C. 


NICK  BROWNS 

Where  Good  Meals 
Begin 


Compliments 

Of 

PIEDMONT   CAFE 


Compliments 

Of 

BROOKS  GROCERY 

1104  Salisbury  Avenue  —  Spencer,  N.  C. 


Courtesy 

Of 

SOUTHERN  BARBECUE 

Henry  Hoffman,  Mgr.  —  Phone  9127 


HEDRICK  AUTO  CO.,  INC. 

Cadillac  And  Studebaker 
120-122  N.  Church  St.  —  Salisbury,  N.  C. 


Compliments 

Of 

SPENCER  AUTO  PARTS  CO. 

Phone  811  —  Spencer,  N.  C. 


"TOM'S    TOASTED    PEANUTS" 

Fine  Candies  And  Peanut  Butter  Sandwiches 
Phone  3026  —  Salisbury,  N.  C. 


PIEDMONT  RADIATOR  WORKS 

Cleaning,  Repairing,  Recoring 
810  Salisbury  Avenue  —  Spencer,  N.  C. 


LITTLE   FARMS  MARKET 

Fruits  And  Vegetables 
"From  Four  Corners  of  the  Earth" 


HOLSHOUSER 

Credit  Jeweler 

Salisbury,  N.  C. 


ALBRIGHT'S  MARKET 

" Meats  That  You  Will  Enjoy  Eating" 
In  A.  &  P.  Store Spencer,  N.  C. 


STAR   LAUNDRY 

— "  The  Good  One"— 
Phone  24 Salisbury,  N.  C. 


Compliments 

Of 

SIMPSON  -  PEACOCK 


Compliments 

Of 

SECURITY  BANK  AND  TRUST  COMPANY 


DORSETT'S   ESSO  SERVICE 

"Batteries  Charged  While  You  Wait" 
Phone  9184 Spencer,  N.  C. 


Compliments 

Of 

WARD-TIPPETT   BARBER   SHOP 


CENTRAL  CASH 


STORE 


WISE  GROCERY 


STORE 


"SPEED-COOKIMG"  ranges 

WITH  AUTOMATIC  CONTROLS! 


GENERAL^  ELECTRIC 
SPEEDSTER  RANGE 


•  HUGE  TRIPL-OVEN! 

•  AUTOMATIC  OVEN  TIMER! 

•  TEL-A-COOK  SWITCHES! 

•  BIG  THRIFT  COOKER! 

•  HI-STYLE  CONTROL  PANEL! 

•  HI-SPEED  CALROD*  UNITS! 


•TRADE-MARK  REG.  U.S.  PAT.  OFF. 


Electrical  Appliances  and  Hardware 
Spencer,  North  Carolina 


