LIBRARY  OF^ONGRESS. 

Chap....}...  Copyright  No. 

UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


^S*^: 


^^m^^^SrM-: 


THE 


Golden  Ace 

COOK  BOOK. 


(^  t^  t^  (^ 


HENRIETTA   LATHAM   DWIGHT. 


New  York: 

THE   ALLIANCE   PUBLISHING    COMPANY, 

"Life"   Building, 

1S98. 

V  - 


•ECOND  COPY, 


50431 

Copyrighted,  1898,  by 
Henrietta  Latham  Dwight. 


^v^a^  OF  COilfS^ 

JAin-1899 

3r  of  Cool 


PRESS  OF  THE  PLniPTON  MFG.  CO., 
HARTFORD,  CONN. 


Dedication. 


TO  ALL  WHO  ARE  STRIVING  TO  FOLLOW  THE  GOLDEN 

RULE,   "TO  DO  UNTO  OTHERS  AS  THEY  WOULD 

HAVE  OTHERS  DO  UNTO  THEM,"  AND  THUS 

EXPRESS  IN  THEIR  EVERY-X)AY  LIFE 

THE  CHRIST  IDEAL  WRITTEN 

WITHIN,   IN  THEIR  OWN 

SOULS,  THIS  BOOK 

IS 


Jlffcctionately  Tnscribca. 


And  God  said,  Behold,  I  have  given  you  every  herb  hearing 
seed,  which  is  upon  the  face  of  all  the  earth,  and  every  tree,  in 
the  which  is  the  fruit  of  a  tree  yielding  seed ;  to  you  it  shall  be 
for  meat.  And  to  every  beast  of  the  earth,  and  to  every  fowl  of 
the  air,  and  to  every  thing  that  creepeth  upon  the  earth,  wherein 
there  is  life,  I  have  given  every  green  herb  for  meat:  and  it  was 
so.— Genesis  i.,  29,  30. 

Thou  shalt  not  kill. — Exodus  xx.,  13. 

For  that  which  befalleth  the  sons  of  men  befalleth  beasts; 
even  one  thing  befalleth  them :  as  the  one  dieth,  so  dieth  the 
other ;  yea,  they  have  all  one  breath ;  so  that  a  man  hath  no  pre- 
eminence above  a  beast :  for  all  is  vanity.  All  go  unto  one  place  ; 
all  are  of  the  dust,  and  all  turn  to  dust  again.  Who  knoweth  the 
spirit  of  man  that  goeth  upward,  and  the  spirit  of  the  beast  that 
goeth  downward  to  the  earth? — Ecclesiastes  iii.,  19,  20,  21. 

He  that  killeth  an  ox  is  as  if  he  slew  a  man. — Isaiah  Ixvi.,  3. 

Then  said  Daniel  to  Melzar  [tAe  steward'\,  whom  the  prince 
of  the  eunuchs  had  set  over  Daniel,  Hananiah,  Mishael,  and 
Azariah :  Prove  thy  servants,  I  beseech  thee,  ten  days;  and  let 
them  give  us  pulse  to  eat,  and  water  to  drink.  Then  let  our 
countenances  be  looked  upon  before  thee,  and  the  countenance 
of  the  children  that  eat  of  the  portion  of  the  king's  meat:  and 
as  thou  seest,  deal  with  thy  servants.  So  he  consented  to  them 
in  this  matter,  and  proved  them  ten  days.  And  at  the  end  of 
ten  days  their  countenances  appeared  fairer  and  fatter  in  flesh 
than  all  the  children  which  did  eat  the  portion  of  the  king's 
meat. — Daniel  i.,  11  to  17. 


PPEmCE. 


I  SEND  this  little  book  out  into  the  world,  first,  to  aid  those 
who,  having  decided  to  adopt  a  bloodless  diet,  are  still 
asking  how  they  can  be  nourished  without  flesh ;  second,  in  the 
hope  of  gaining  something  further  to  protect  "  the  speechless 
ones  "  who,  having  come  down  through  the  centuries  under 
"  the  dominion  of  man,"  have  in  their  eyes  the  mute,  appeal- 
ing look  of  the  helpless  and  oppressed.  Their  eloquent  silence 
should  not  ask  our  sympathy  and  aid  in  vain  ;  they  have  a 
right,  as  our  humble  brothers,  to  our  loving  care  and  protec- 
tion, and  to  demand  justice  and  pity  at  our  hands  ;  and,  as  a 
part  of  the  One  Life,  to — 

"  life,  which  all  can  take  but  none  can  give  ; 

Life,  which  all  creatures  love  and  strive  to  keep  ; 

Wonderful,  dear,  and  pleasant  unto  each. 

Even  to  the  meanest;  yea,  a  boon  to  all 

Where  pity  is,  for  pity  makes  the  world 

Soft  to  the  weak  and  noble  for  the  strong. 

Unto  the  dumb  lips  of  the  flock  he  lent 

Sad,  pleading  words,  showing  how  man,  who  prays 

For  mercy  to  the  gods,  is  merciless, 

Being  as  god  to  those  ;  albeit  all  life 

Is  linked  and  kin,  and  what  we  slay  have  given 

Meek  tribute  of  their  milk  and  wool,  and  set 

Fast  trust  upon  the  hands  which  murder  them." 
If  the  cruelty  and  injustice  to  animals  are  nothing  to  us, 
we  have  still  another  argument  to  offer — the  brutalization  of 
the  men  who  slaughter  that  we  may  eat  flesh.     Mrs.  Besant, 
in  "Why  I  Am  a  Food  Reformer,"  says: 

"  Lately  I  have  been  in  the  city  of  Chicago — one  of  the 
greatest  slaughter-houses  of  the  world — where  the  slaughter- 
men, who  are  employed  from  early  morn  till  late  at  night  in  the 
killing  of  thousands  of  these  hapless  creatures,  are  made  a  class 
practically  apart  from  their  fellow-men;  they  are  marked  out 


by  the  police  as  the  most  dangerous  part  of  the  community; 
amongst  them  are  committed  most  crimes  of  violence,  and 
the  most  ready  use  of  the  knife  is  found.  One  day  I  was 
speaking  to  an  authority  on  this  subject,  and  I  asked  him  how 
it  was  that  he  knew  so  decidedly  that  most  of  the  murders  and 
the  crimes  with  the  knife  were  perpetrated  by  that  particular 
class  of  men,  and  his  answer  was  suggestive,  although  horrible. 
He  said:  'There  is  a  peculiar  turn  of  the  knife  which  men 
learn  to  use  in  the  slaughter-house,  for,  as  the  living  creatures 
are  brought  to  them  by  machinery,  these  men  slit  their  throats 
as  they  pass  by.  That  twist  of  the  wrist  is  the  characteristic 
of  most  crimes  with  the  knife  committed  amongst  our  Chicago 
population.'  That  struck  me  at  once  as  both  a  horrible  and 
significant  fact.  What  right  have  people  to  condemn  other  men 
to  a  trade  that  makes  them  so  readily  take  to  the  knife  in  anger; 
which  marks  them  out  as  specially  brutalized — brutes  amongst 
their  fellow-men?  Being  constantly  in  the  sight  and  the  smell 
of  blood,  their  whole  nature  is  coarsened;  accustomed  to  kill 
thousands  of  creatures,  they  lose  all  sense  of  reverence  for 
sentient  life,  they  grow  indifferent  to  the  suffering  they  contin- 
ually see  around  them  ;  accustomed  to  inflict  pain,  they  grow 
callous  to  the  sight  of  pain  ;  accustomed  to  kill  swiftly,  and 
sometimes  not  even  waiting  until  the  creature  is  dead  before 
the  skin  is  stripped  from  it,  their  nerves  become  coarsened, 
hardened,  and  brutalized,  and  they  are  less  men  as  men  because 
they  are  slaughterers  of  animals.  And  everyone  who  eats  flesh 
meat  has  part  in  that  brutalization ;  everyone  who  uses  what  they 
provide  is  guilty  of  this  degradation  of  his  fellow-men. 

"  If  I  may  not  appeal  to  you  in  the  name  of  the  animals — 
if  under  mistaken  views  you  regard  animals  as  not  sharing  your 
kind  of  life — then  I  appeal  to  you  in  the  name  of  human  brother- 
hood, and  remind  you  of  your  duty  to  your  fellow-men,  your 
duty  to  your  nation,  which  must  be  built  up  partly  of  the  chil- 
dren of  those  who  slaughter — who  physically  inherit  the  very 
signs  of  this  brutalizing  occupation.  I  ask  you  to  recognize 
your  duty  as  men  and  women  who  should  raise  the  Race,  not 

6 


degrade  it ;  who  should  try  to  make  it  divine,  not  brutal ;  who 
should  try  to  make  it  pure,  not  foul ;  and  therefore,  in  the 
name  of  Human  Brotherhood,  I  appeal  to  you  to  leave  your 
own  tables  free  from  the  stain  of  blood  and  your  consciences 
free  from  the  degradation  of  your  fellow-men." 

That  flesh-eating  is  not  necessary  to  the  perfect  health  of 
man  is  attested  by  many  scientists.  The  following  testimonies 
from  some  very  prominent  physiologists  and  anatomists  may 
prove  interesting  : 

Sir  Charles  Bell,  F.  R.  S.  :  "  It  is,  1  think,  not  going  too 
far  to  say  that  every  fact  connected  with  the  human  organiza- 
tion goes  to  prove  that  man  was  originally  formed  a  frugivorous 
animal.  This  opinion  is  principally  derived  from  the  formation 
of  his  teeth  and  digestive  organs,  as  well  as  from  the  character 
of  his  skin  and  the  general  structure  of  his  limbs." 

Sylvester  Graham,  M.  D. :  "  Comparative  anatomy  proves 
that  man  is  naturally  a  frugivorous  animal,  formed  to  subsist 
upon  fruits,  seeds,  and  farinaceous  vegetables." 

Professor  Wm.  Lawrence,  F.  R.  S. :  "The  teeth  of  man 
have  not  the  slightest  resemblance  to  those  of  carnivorous 
animals  ;  and,  whether  we  consider  the  teeth,  jaws,  or  digestive 
organs,  the  human  structure  closely  resembles  that  of  the  fru- 
givorous animals." 

Dr.  Jozef  Drzewiecki  :  "  There  is  no  doubt  that  fruit  and 
vegetable  food  purifies  the  blood,  while  meat  inflames  and  is 
the  source  of  many  diseases,  which  are  the  punishment  for 
breaking  the  natural  law  and  command." 

Professor  Vogt :  "  The  vegetarian  diet  is  the  most  bene- 
ficial and  agreeable  to  our  organs,  as  it  contains  the  greatest 
amount  of  carbon  hydrates  and  the  best  proportion  of  albumen." 

Sir  Henry  Thompson,  M.  D.,  F.  R.  C.  S.  :  "  It  is  a  vulgar 
error  to  regard  meat  in  any  form  as  necessary  to  life.  All  that 
is  necessary  to  the  human  body  can  be  supplied  by  the  vegeta- 
ble kingdom.  .  .  .  The  vegetarian  can  extract  from  his  food 
all  the  principles  necessary  for  the  growth  and  support  of  the 
body,  as  well  as  for  the  production  of  heat  and  force.     It  must 


be  admitted  as  a  fact  beyond  all  question  that  some  persons 
are  stronger  and  more  healthy  who  live  on  that  food.  1  know 
how  much  of  the  prevailing  meat  diet  is  not  merely  a  wasteful 
extravagance,  but  a  source  of  serious  evil  to  the  consumer." 

The  following  special  cablegram  from  London  to  the  New 
York  "  Sun,"  July  3d,  1898,  contains  a  practical  illustration  of 
the  superiority  of  a  vegetable  diet : 

"  The  vegetarians  are  making  a  great  ado  over  the  triumph 
of  their  theory  in  the  long-distance  test  of  walking  endurance, 
seventy  miles,  in  Germany,  this  week.  The  twenty- two  starters 
included  eight  vegetarians.  The  distance  had  to  be  covered 
within  eighteen  hours.  The  first  six  to  arrive  were  vegetarians, 
the  first  finishing  in  14)4^  hours,  the  second  in  \4^,  the  third 
in  \5}4,  the  fourth  in  16,  the  fifth  in  \6}4<  and  the  sixth  in 
17j^.  The  last  two  vegetarians  missed  their  way  and  walked 
five  miles  more.  All  reached  the  goal  in  splendid  condition. 
Not  till  one  hour  after  the  last  vegetarian  did  the  first  meat- 
eater  appear,  completely  exhausted.  He  was  the  only  one. 
Others  dropped  off  after  thirty-five  miles." 

There  is  no  question  of  the  great  economy  of  vegetarian- 
ism.    Dr.  Alcott,  in  "  Arguments  for  Vegetarianism,"  says: 

"  Twenty-two  acres  of  land  are  needed  to  sustain  one  man 
on  fresh  meat.  Under  wheat  that  land  will  feed  forty-two  peo- 
ple ;  under  oats,  eighty-eight ;  under  potatoes,  maize,  or  rice, 
one  hundred  and  seventy-six  ;  under  the  banana,  over  six  thou- 
sand. The  crowded  nations  of  the  future  must  abandon  flesh- 
eating  for  a  diet  that  will  feed  more  than  tenfold  people  by  the 
same  soil,  expense  and  labor.  How  rich  men  will  be  when  they 
cease  to  toil  for  flesh-meat,  alcohol,  drugs,  sickness,  and  war !" 

"Suffer  the  ox  to  plough,  and  impute  his  death  to  age  and  Nature's 

hand. 
Let  the  sheep  continue  to  yield   us  shehering  wool,  and  the  goats  the 

produce  of  their  loaded  udders. 
Banish  from  among  you  nets  and  snares  and  painful  artifices, 
Conspire  no  longer  against  the  birds,  nor  scare  the  meek  deer,  nor  hide 

with  fraud  ihe  crooked  hook ;  .   .  .  . 
But  let  your  mouths  be  empty  of  blood,  and  satisfied  with  pure  and 

natural  repasts."* 

*  Imputed  to  Pythagoras. 


Comparative  Tables 

OF 

Vegetable  and  Animal 
FOODS. 


IN    100    PARTS. 


Lean  beef. 

Fat  beef. 

Lean  nnitton 

Fat  mutton 

Veal 

Fat  pork 

Dried  ham 

Tripe 

White  fish 

Red  fish  (salmon).... 

0\'sters 

Mussels 

White  of  egg 

Yolk  of  egg , 

Cow's  milk  (lactin) . 

Cream 

Butter 

Gruyere  cheese 

Roquefort 

Dutch 

Chester 

Parmesan 

Cheddar , 


Nitrog- 
enous 
Matter. 


19.3 

14.8 

18.3 

12.4 

16.5 
9.8 
8.8 
13.2 
18.1 
16.1 
14.010 
11.72 
20.4 
16.0 

4.1 

2.7 


Hydro- 
carbonate 
Matter, 


31.5 
26.52 
29.43 
25.99 

44.08 
28.4 


3.6 
29.8 

4.9 
31.1 
15.8 
48.9 
73.3 
16.4 

2.9 

5.5 

1.515 

2.42 


Saline 
Matter. 


30.7 
3.9 
26.7 
83.0 
24.0 
30.14 
27.54 
26.34 
15.95 
31.1 


5.1 

4.4 

4.8 

3.5 

4.7 

2.3 

2.9 

2.4 

1.0 

1.4 

2.695 
2.73 

1.6 
1.3 
0.8 
1.8 
2.0 
3.0 
5.0' 


4.16 
5.72 
4.5 


Water. 

72.0 

51.0 

72.0 

53.0 

63.0 

39.0 

15.0 

68.0 

78.0 

77.0 

80.385 

75.74 

78.0 

52.0 

86.0 

66.0 

15.0 

40.0 

34.55 

36.10 

35.92 

27.56 

36.0 


10 


IN    100    PARTS. 


Beans 

White  haricots 

Dried  peas 

Lentils 

Potatoes 

Black  truffles 

Mushrooms 

Carrots 

Sea-kale 

Turnips 

Cabbage 

Garden  beet 

Tomato 

Sweet  potato 

Water-cress 

Arrowroot 

Dry  southern  wheat. 
Dry  common  w^heat. 

Oat-meal 

Barley-meal 

Rye-meal 

Dry  maize 

Dry  rice 

Buckwheat 

Quinoa-meal 

Dhoorra-meal 

Dried  figs 

Dates 

Bananas 

Walnuts  (peeled) 

Filberts 

Ground-nuts  (peeled) 

Cocoa-nut 

Fresh  chestnuts  ( peeled) 

Locust  bean 

Cocoa-nibs 1 

Chocolate ' 


Oarljo- 
hydrates. 


55.86 

55.7 

58.7 

56.0 

21.9 

16.0 

3.0 
14.5 

2.8 

7.2 

5.8 
13.5 

6.0 
26.25 

3.2 
82.0 
67.112 
77.05 
63.8 
74.3 
73.2 
71.55 
89.65 
64.90 
56.80 
74.0 
65.9 
65.3 
(?)19.0 

8.9 
11.1 
11.7 

8.1 
42.7 
67.9 

11.10 


Nitrog- 
enous 
Matter. 


Hydro- 
carbonate 
Matter, 


30.8 
25.5 
23  8 
25.2 

2.50 

8.775 

4.680 

1.3 

2.4 

1.1 

2.0 
.4 

1.4 

1.50 

1.7 


22.75 
15.25 
12.6 

6.3 

8.0 
12.50 

7.55 
13.10 
20.0 

9.0 

6.1 

6.6 

4.820 
12.5 

8.4 
24.5 

5.5 

3.0 

7.1 

21.20 


2.0 

2.8 

2.1 

2.6 

0.11 

0.560 

0.396 

0.2 


0.30 


2.61 

1.95 

5.6 

2.4 

2.0 

8.80 

0.80 

3.0 

5.0 

2.6 

0.9 

0.2 

0.632 
31.6 
28.5 
50.0 
35.9 

2.5 

1.1 

50.0 


Saline 
Matter. 


3.65 

3.2 

2.1 

2.3 

1.26 

2.070 


Water. 


8.40 

9.9 

8.3 

11.5 

74.0 

72.0 


0.458191.010 


1.0 
(?)  3.0 

0.6 

0.7 
(?)  1.0 
(?)     .8 

2.60 
(?)     .7 


83.0 
[93.3 
91.0 
91.0 
82.2 
89.8 
67.50 
93.1 
18.0 


3.02 


2.7a 

3.0 

15.0 

2.0 

15.0 

1.8 

15.0 

1.25 

0.90 

2.50 

13.0 

(?)  1.0 

15.0 

2.3 

2.3 

17.5 

1.6 

20.8 

0.791 

73.900 

(?)1.7 

44.5 

(?)  1.5 

48.0 

(?)  1.8 

7.5 

(?)  1.0 

46.6 

(?)  1.8 

49.2 

(?)  2.9 

14.6 

12.0 


The  anah 


•  of  Fresenius,  Letheby 
From  "  The  Perfect  Way  in 


,  Pavy, 

Diet." 


Church,  and  others. 


'  0  Golden  Age,  whose  light  is  of  the  dawn, 
And  not  of  sunset,  forward,  not  behind, 
Flood  the  new  heavens  and  earth,  and  with  thee  bring 
All  the  old  virtues,  whatsoever  things 
Are  pure  and  honest  and  of  good  repute, 
But  add  thereto  whatever  bard  has  sung 
Or  seer  has  told  of  when  in  trance  or  dream 
They  saw  the  Happy  Isles  of  prophecy! 
Let  Justice  hold  her  scale,  and  Truth  divide 
Between  the  right  and  wrong ;   but  give  the  heart 
The  freedom  of  its  fair  inheritance." 

— Whittier. 


Bread,  Biscuit,  and  Rolls. 

BEATEN  BISCUIT.-No.  J. 
One  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  sifted  with  the  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  large  heaping  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff"  dough.  Beat  with 
a  rolling  pin  or  in  a  biscuit-beater  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes  until  the  dough  blisters.  Roll  out  about 
half  an  inch  thick  or  less,  prick  well  with  a  fork  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

BEATEN  BISCUIT.-No.  2. 

Two  quarts  of  flour,  three  ounces  of  butter,  a 
little  salt  and  enough  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 
Beat  with  a  rolling  pin  or  in  a  biscuit-beater  twent\^ 
minutes  until  the  dough  blisters  or  snaps.  Roll  out 
about  half  an  inch  thick,  prick  well  with  a  fork  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.  This  dough  rolled  very  thin, 
cut  with  a  large  cutter,  pricked  well  and  baked  in  a 
quick  oven  makes  delicious  wafers  to  serve  with  tea 
or  chocolate. 

BAKING-POWDER  BISCUIT. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour,  three-quarters  of  a  cup 
of  butter,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der, one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  enough  milk  to  make  a 
soft  dough.  Do  not  handle  any  more  than  is  neces- 
sary. Roll  thin,  cut  in  small  biscuits,  prick  with  a 
fork  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CREAM  BISCUIT. 
One  quart  of  flour  sifted,  two  rounded  teaspoon- 
fuls of  Cleveland's  baking  powder,  two  cupfuls  of 


cream  and  a  little  salt.  Mix,  roll  out  about  a  quar- 
ter of  an  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  small  biscuit-cutter, 
prick  with  a  fork  and  bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven. 

FRENCH  ROLLS. 

Two  quarts  of  sifted  flour,  a  pint  of  warm  milk, 
half  a  cup  of  butter  melted  in  the  milk,  a  quarter  of 
a  cup  of  sugar,  three  or  four  eggs  beaten  light,  a  little 
salt,  a  half  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  dissolved  in  a 
little  warm  milk.  Make  a  batter  of  the  milk  and 
flour,  add  the  eggs  and  sugar,  beat  hard  for  fifteen 
minutes.  Cover  the  pan  and  set  to  rise,  over  night 
if  for  luncheon,  in  the  morning  if  for  tea.  Knead 
well,  but  do  not  add  any  more  flour.  Make  them 
into  shape  and  let  them  rise  again  until  light.  Bake 
about  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  For  buns  add 
cinnamon.  Sift  the  flour  before  measuring,  and 
measure  lightly. 

RAISED  FINGER-ROLLS. 
Half  a  pint  of  milk,  half  a  pint  of  water,  one- 
third  of  a  compressed  yeast  cake,  one  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Dissolve  the  yeast  cake  in  a  little  tepid 
water,  mix  as  usual,  make  into  a  soft  dough  at  night, 
bake  for  breakfast  or  luncheon. 

WINDSOR  ROLLS. 
Melt  half  a  cup  of  butter  in  three-quarters  of  a 
pint  of  warm  milk,  dissolve  one  cake  of  compressed 
3'^east  in  a  little  tepid  milk,  stir  together  and  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  like 
bread  dough,  set  to  rise  in  a  w^arm  place.  It  will  rise 
in  about  two  hours.  Roll  out  the  dough,  using  as 
little  flour  as  possible  to  keep  it  froin  sticking,  and 
cut  with  a  biscuit-cutter,  or  mould  with  the  hands 
into  rolls,  put  them  in  pans,  and  set  on  the  shelf  over 

14 


the  range  to  rise  about  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.     Bake 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

ELIZABETTI  ROLLS. 
One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  half  a  yeast  cake,  an  even 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar, 
and  one  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  as  stiff  as 
bread  dough.  Scald  the  milk  and  melt  the  butter  in 
it,  when  lukewarm  dissolve  the  j^east  cake,  sugar  and 
salt  and  stir  the  flour  in  until  as  thick  as  bread 
dough.  Set  to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  roll 
thin,  cut  with  a  biscuit-cutter,  put  a  tiny  lump  of 
butter  on  each  biscuit,  fold  in  half,  set  to  rise  again, 
and  when  light  bake  about  twenty  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.  This  quantity  will  make  twenty- 
four  rolls. 

RYE  ROLLS. 

Take  in  the  morning  from  rye  bread  dough  one 
cupful,  add  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  Porto  Rico  mo- 
lasses, one  tablespoonful  of  sour  cream,  one  even 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  Bake  in  cups,  half  fill  them, 
set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes.     This  quantity  will 

make  eight. 

GLUTEN   ROLLS. 

Three  cups  of  kernel  flour,  two  even  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
two  cups  of  milk.  Mix  the  flour,  salt  and  baking 
powder  together,  then  stir  in  the  milk,  beat  well.  If 
baked  in  iron  roll  pans  heat  them  well,  brush  with 
butter;  if  granite  ware,  only  grease  them.  This 
quantity  will  make  sixteen  rolls.  Bake  from  twenty 
to  tw^enty-five  minutes. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 
Sift  two  cups  of  flour  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  then  add  a  cup  of 


tepid  water  in  which  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  has 
been  dissolved,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter; 
when  mixed  break  in  one  egg  and  add  flour  enough 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  Knead  well,  beating  the 
dough  upon  the  board.  Set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place, 
when  light  knead  again,  adding  only  enough  flour  to 
keep  from  sticking  to  the  board,  roll  out  about  half 
an  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  biscuit-cutter,  brush  with 
melted  butter,  fold  in  half  and  set  to  rise  again. 
These  rolls  can  be  set  at  noon  if  for  tea,  or  in  the 
inorning  if  for  luncheon,  or  they  can  be  made  up  at 
night  for  breakfast,  when  use  only  half  a  yeast  cake. 
This  dough  can  be  moulded  into  small,  oblong  rolls 
for  afternoon  teas. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 
One  cup  of  yellow  corn  meal,  one  cup  and  a  half 
of  Graham  flour,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  salt,  an  even 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  half  a 
cup  of  Porto  Rico  molasses,  and  butter  the  size  of  a 
large  w^alnut.  Sift  the  corn  meal  and  soda  together, 
add  the  Graham  flour  and  salt,  then  the  milk  and 
molasses,  melt  the  butter  and  stir  in  at  the  last. 
Butter  a  brown  bread  mould,  pour  in  the  mixture, 
steam  for  three  hours,  keep  the  water  steadily  boil- 
ing, remove  the  cover  of  the  mould,  and  bake  twenty 
minutes  in  the  oven  to  form  a  crust. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD  WITH  RAISINS. 
Follow  the  preceding  recipe,  adding  a  cup  of  rai- 
sins stoned  and  slightl}-  chopped.    Very  nice  for  nut 
sandwiches  and  stewed  bread. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD  STEWED. 
Cut  the  bread  into  dice,  and  when  the  milk  boils 
add  the  bread  and  stew  gently  fifteen  minutes.    The 
proportion  is  about  a  cup  of  milk  to  one  of  bread. 

16 


GRAHAM  BREAD. 
Haifa  pint  of  milk,  half  a  pint  of  water,  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  white  flour,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
half  a  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  tepid  water.  Scald  the 
milk  and  add  the  half  pint  of  boiling  water,  set  away 
to  cool.  Put  the  flour  into  the  bread  pan,  add  milk 
and  water  when  lukewarm  and  the  dissolved  yeast ; 
beat  well.  In  the  morning  add  half  a  cup  of  Porto 
Rico  molasses  and  Graham  flour  enough  to  knead 
well,  let  it  rise  for  three  hours,  knead  again,  make 
into  loaves  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When 
light  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  nearly  an  hour. 

RYE  BREAD. 
Dissolve  half  a  yeast  cake,  two  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one  of  salt  in  a  cup  and  a 
third  of  tepid  water,  then  stir  into  it  a  pint  of  white 
flour,  and  when  smooth  add  enough  rye  flour  to 
make  a  dough  rather  stifler  than  that  of  white 
bread.  Knead  thoroughly  about  fifteen  minutes  and 
set  to  rise.  In  the  morning  make  into  a  loaf  and  put 
in  a  crusty  bread  pan. 

QUICK  WHITE  BREAD. 

Three  pints  of  flour,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
two  cakes  of  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  tepid 
water  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Set 
in  the  morning, — it  v^ill  require  about  an  hour  and  a 
half  to  rise,  and,  after  making  into  loaves,  about  ten 
minutes. 

DATE  BREAD. 

Break  the  dates  apart,  wash  and  drain  them  in  a 
colander,  shake  them  well,  set  in  a  warm  place  to 
dry.  Stone  and  chop  enough  to  make  a  cupful,  and 
knead  into  a  loaf  of  white  bread  just  before  setting 
to  rise  for  the  last  time. 


COFFEE  BREAD —No.  J. 

One  pound  of  flour,  two  eggs,  six  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  mixed  dry 
in  the  flour,  and  one  cup  and  a  half  of  milk.  Beat 
the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  eggs  well 
beaten,  a  few  grains  of  cardamom,  half  a  cupful  of 
raisins  seeded,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  citron  cut  fine, 
if  liked,  then  add  the  milk  and  flour.  Bake  in  crusty 
bread  pans  or  shallow  pans,  as  convenient. 

COFFEE  BREAD —No.  2. 
Half  a  pound  of  flour,  one  egg,  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  sugar,  a  small  pinch  of  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk,  one 
even  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  scant  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar.  Mix  and  bake  in  a  crusty  bread 
pan  in  a  good  oven,  not  too  quick,  from  twenty  to 
twenty-five  minutes. 

NORWEGIAN  ROLLS. 
Two  pounds  and  a  half  of  flour,  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  milk,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  six  ounces  of  sugar, 
one  even  teaspoonful  of  cardamom  seeds  pounded  fine, 
and  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast.  Melt  the  butter 
in  the  milk,  mix  the  sugar,  flour  and  cardamom 
together  and  stir  the  butter  and  milk  into  it  with 
the  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  mix  thor- 
oughly and  set  to  rise.  When  it  is  nicely  raised,  roll 
out  the  dough  and  cut  with  a  biscuit-cutter,  put  in 
pans  to  rise  again,— if  they  can  be  raised  over  steam 
it  is  better.  When  light  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  If 
zwieback  are  wanted,  cut  the  biscuit  in  half  when 
cold  and  set  them  in  the  oven  to  brown.  If  wanted 
very  nice,  brush  each  half  over  with  white  of  egg  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  chopped  almonds.  The  car- 
damom seed  may  be  omitted  if  not  liked. 


RICE  MUFHNS. 
Boil  a  scant  half  cup  of  rice  in  salted  water  half 
an  hour,  drain  well,  and  measure  out  four  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  it  into  a  mixing  bowl.  Stir  into  it 
while  hot  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Beat 
one  egg  light,  add  to  the  rice  and  butter  with  a  little 
salt,  sift  half  a  pint  of  flour  with  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder,  and  stir  in  alternateh^  with  half  a 
pint  of  milk.  Pour  the  mixture  into  muffin  rings  or 
gem  pans,  which  must  be  heated  thoroughly  and  well 
buttered.     Bake  about  twenty  minutes. 

LAPLANDS. 
Half  a  pint  of  flour,  half  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  a 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  eggs  beaten 
separately  and  very  light.  Mix  the  flour,  salt  and 
milk  together,  then  the  yolks  of  eggs,  and  lasth^  the 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Have  a  gem 
pan  very  hot,  butter  well  and  fill  with  the  batter  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes.  This 
quantity  will  make  fourteen  gems. 

ENGLISH  MUFFINS. 
Half  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  half  a  pint  of  hot  water, 
half  a  yeast  cake,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
one  of  sugar,  and  about  a  pound  and  a  half  of  white 
flour.  Dissolve  the  yeast  cake  in  a  little  tepid  water 
and  add  to  the  batter  when  lukewarm.  The  milk 
and  water  mixed  must  be  stirred  into  the  flour  while 
hot.  Beat  the  batter  very  hard,  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes; it  should  be  a  soft  dough.  Set  to  rise  over 
night.  Flour  the  board  well,  drop  the  dough  in  large 
spoonfuls  in  the  flour,  flatten  with  the  hands  and 
form  into  shape.  Let  them  rise  on  the  board  in  a 
warm  place,  and  when  light  bake  on  a  griddle, 
heated  only  half  as  hot  as  for  griddle  cakes.  Flour 
the  muffins  and  bake  slowly  on  one  side  six  minutes ; 


then  turn  and  bake  the  same  on  the  other  side.  They 
are  very  nice  spHt  and  toasted  and  buttered  immedi- 
ately and  put  together  again. 

GRAHAM  POPOVERS. 
Beat  three  eggs  very  light,  and  add  to  them  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  milk,  a  saltspoon- 
ful  of  salt.  Put  in  a  mixing  bowl  half  a  pint  each  of 
Graham  and  white  flour,  stir  the  eggs  and  milk  grad- 
uall3^  into  this  and  beat  until  perfectly  smooth.  Then 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  and  beat 
again  for  some  minutes.  Brush  the  cups  over  with 
melted  butter ;  if  they  are  of  iron  heat  them,  half  fill 
wnth  the  batter  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifty  min- 
utes at  least. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

To  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  four  cups  of  Graham 
flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  together  and  beat 
well,  the  longer  the  better.  Have  the  gem  pans  very 
hot,  brush  well  with  butter,  half  fill  them  with  the 
batter  and  bake  thirty-five  minutes. 

GEMS  OF  KERNEL  (Middlings)  AND  WHITE  FLOUR. 
Two  cups  of  kernel  flour,  two  cups  of  white  flour, 
four  cups  of  milk  or  two  of  milk  and  two  of  water, 
one  egg,  a  little  salt,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow^der,  two  large  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Beat  the  egg  very  light 
in  a  bowl,  add  the  sugar  and  salt,  the  milk  and  but- 
ter, sift  the  flour  together  and  beat  the  batter  hard 
for  a  few  minutes.  Have  the  iron  gem  pans  very  hot, 
butter  and  fill,  and  bake  them  in  a  good,  quick  oven 
not  less  than  thirt\^-five  minutes. 

GEMS  OF  RYE  MEAL. 
Mix  together  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  rye  meal 
and  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  w^hite  flour  and  a  salt- 


spoonful  of  salt.  Beat  two  egg  yolks  and  stir  into 
it  a  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  one  tablespoonful  of  gran- 
ulated sugar,  add  this  to  the  rye  meal  and  flour,  beat 
hard,  then  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Heat  the  iron  gem  pans,  brush  with  but- 
ter and  bake  thirty-five  to  forty  minutes. 

CORN  BATTER  BREAD. 
Pour  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  over  four  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  yellow  corn  meal,  add  a  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  and  a  little  salt.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
to  a  cream  and  add  to  the  batter,  then  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Butter  a  pudding 
dish,  turn  the  mixture  into  it  and  bake  from  twenty- 
five  to  thirty  minutes.  Serve  immediately  in  the 
dish  in  which  it  is  baked. 

CORN  BREAD. 
Put  half  a  pint  of  yellow  corn  meal  in  a  mixing 
bowl,  pour  over  it  one  pint  of  rich,  sweet  milk. 
When  cold  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar 
and  four  eggs  beaten  separately,  the  whites  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  added  at  the  last.  Pour  into  a 
well-buttered  shallow  pan  and  bake  about  half  an 
hour  in  a  good  oven. 

CORN  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 
One  cup  of  yellow  corn  meal  in  a  mixing  bowl, 
pour  over  it  three  cups  of  boiling  milk.  When  cold 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Sift  one 
teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  and  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda  with  half  a  cup  of  white  flour,  add  to 
the  batter  and  at  the  last  mix  in  two  well-beaten 
eggs. 

21 


WHITE  BREAD  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 
Chop  as  much  stale  bread  as  will  measure  two 
cupfuls,  put  it  into  a  bowl  and  pour  over  it  a  cupful 
of  sweet,  rich  milk,  let  it  soak  for  an  hour.  When 
ready  to  bake  the  cakes,  mash  the  bread  in  the  milk 
with  a  wooden  spoon,  add  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  sift  into  the 
mixture  a  cupful  of  white  flour  and  an  even  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  stir  well  together,  then  add  a  cup- 
ful of  sour  milk  and  bake  on  a  griddle. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 
Crumble  enough  Boston  brown  bread  to  make 
two  cupfuls,  pour  over  it  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  soak 
an  hour.  Then  mash  fine  in  the  milk,  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  an  even  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  sift  into  the  mixture 
a  cupful  of  white  flour  and  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  beat  well ;  then  add  a  scant  half  cup 
of  milk  and  bake  as  other  griddle  cakes. 

WAFFLES. 

Put  a  quart  of  milk  to  warm,  melt  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  butter  in  it  and  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  When  cold  add  a  pint  of  sifted  flour,  four  eggs, 
the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  and  just 
before  baking  stir  in  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder. 

EPICUREAN  ROLLS. 

Boil  several  potatoes  and  put  them  through  a 
vegetable  press  or  else  grate  them,  measure  one  cup- 
ful, one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  half  a  j^east  cake  dis- 
solved in  half  a  cup  of  tepid  water,  half  a  pint  of 
milk,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  egg  beaten  separately, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make 
a  soft  dough.    Set  to  rise  at  night.    Pour  a  third  of 

22 


a  cup  of  boiling  water  over  the  potato,  salt  and 
sugar.  Beat  smooth,  and  when  tepid  add  the  yeast, 
cover  and  set  away  to  rise.  In  the  morning  bring 
the  milk  to  a  boil,  and  melt  the  butter  in  it ;  when 
cool  enough  add  the  beaten  yolk  and  stir  all  into 
the  potato  sponge,  beat  the  white  of  egg  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  add  to  the  other  ingredients,  with  flour 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough  ;  knead  well  and  let  it 
rise  again ;  when  very  light  roll  out  about  half  an 
inch  thick,  cut  with  a  round  biscuit-cutter,  prick 
them  with  a  fork,  put  in  pans  for  a  short  time  to  rise 
and  bake  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  The  most 
delicate  and  delicious  of  rolls. 

BREAD  FROM  RUMMER  FLOUR. 
Two  quarts  of  improved  Graham  flour,  half  a 
pint  of  boiling  water,  half  a  pint  of  lukewarm  water, 
one-fourth  of  a  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  half  a  pint  of 
lukewarm  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  granulated 
sugar  added  when  kneading  the  dough,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Put  the  salt  in  the  flour,  make  a 
hole,  pour  in  the  boiling  water,  then  the  lukewarm 
water,  and  last  the  yeast.  Knead  well  at  night  at 
least  fifteen  minutes,  set  to  rise.  In  the  morning 
mould  into  loaves,  let  it  rise  until  very  light  and 
bake  until  well  done. 

BISCUITS  OF  KERNEL  OR  GRAHAM  FLOUR. 
Follow  the  recipe  for  baking  powder  biscuits, 
using  kernel  or  Graham  flour  instead  of  white  flour. 
If  Graham  is  used  sift  twice  before  adding  the  baking 
powder.  Roll  thin,  cut  with  a  biscuit-cutter,  prick 
with  a  fork  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Eggs* 

TO  SOFT  BOIL  EGGS. 
Cover  the  eggs  with  cold  water  in  a  saucepan, 
place  over  the  fire,  and  when  the  water  conies  to  the 
boiling  point  the  eggs  are  perfectly  cooked ;  remove 
at  once  and  serve. 

TO  HARD  BOIL  EGGS. 
Put  the  eggs  in  boiling  water  and  boil  hard  for 
ten  minutes,  set  them  where  they  will  boil  gently  for 
ten  minutes  more,  then  remove  from  the  fire.     Eggs 
boiled  in  this  way  will  be  tender  and  digestible. 

EGGS  A  LA  CREME. 
Boil  twelve  eggs  fifteen  minutes.  Line  a  dish 
with  very  thin  slices  of  bread  and  fill  with  layer  of 
eggs  cut  in  slices,  strewing  them  with  a  little  grated 
bread,  pepper  and  salt;  rub  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  put  it  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a 
little  onion  grated,  salt,  pepper  and  half  a  pint  of 
milk  or  cream  ;  when  hot  pour  over  the  eggs  ;  cover 
the  top  with  grated  bread  crumbs  and  put  it  in  the 
oven,  let  it  heat  thoroughly  and  brown. 

EGGS  AU  GRATIN. 
Boil  twelve  eggs  hard,  shell  and  cut  them  in  slices 
and  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish  in  close  circular  rows ; 
make  a  sauce  of  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs,  a  little  grated  cheese,  and  half  a  pint  of 
milk;  stir  this  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens,  pour 
it  over  the  eggs,  strew  some  bread  crumbs  on  top 
and  bake  for  ten  minutes. 


NUN'S  TOAST. 
Cut  four  or  five  hard  boiled  eggs  into  thin  slices ; 
put  a  piece  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg  in  a 
saucepan,  and  when  it  begins  to  bubble  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  grated  onion  ;  let  it  cook  a  little  without 
taking  color,  then  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  a 
cupful  of  milk  and  stir  until  smooth ;  add  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  then  put  in  the  slices  of  egg  and  let 
them  get  hot.  Have  ready  some  neatly  trimmed 
slices  of  buttered  toast,  pour  the  mixture  over  them 
and  serve  at  once. 

EGGS  A  LA  MAITRE  D'HOTEL. 
One-quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  half  a 
pint  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  minced  parsley,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
onion  juice,  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  w^hite 
pepper,  salt  to  taste,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and 
eight  hard  boiled  eggs.  Stir  the  flour  and  half  of  the 
butter  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture 
thickens,  stir  in  the  milk ;  when  hot  add  the  pepper 
and  let  it  simmer  a  minute;  cream  the  rest  of  the 
butter  and  beat  in  the  lemon,  onion  juice  and  pars- 
ley; cut  the  eggs  in  quarters  lengthwise,  add  the 
creamed  butter  to  that  in  the  saucepan,  allow  it  to 
heat  thoroughly,  pour  over  the  eggs  and  serve. 

EGG  TIMBALES. 
For  six  persons  use  half  a  dozen  eggs,  three  gills 
of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-eighth  of  a  tea- 
spoonful of  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  pars- 
ley, and  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  if 
hked.  Break  the  eggs  into  a  bowl  and  beat  well  with 
a  fork,  then  add  the  seasoning  and  beat  for  a  minute 
longer;  now  add  the  milk  and  stir  well ;  butter  well 
medium  sized  timbale  moulds,  one  for  each  person, 
pour  the  mixture  into  them ;  put  the  motilds  in  a 


deep  pan  and  pour  in  enough  hot  water  to  come 
almost  to  the  top  of  the  moulds.  Place  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  and  cook  until  firm  in  the  center — for  about 
twenty  minutes — then  turn  out  on  a  warm  dish  and 
pour  cream  or  tomato  sauce  around  them. 

EGGS  STUFFED  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 
Boil  half  a  dozen  eggs  hard ;  when  done  pour 
cold  water  over  them,  shell  and  cut  in  half  length- 
wise; take  out  the  yolks,  mash  them  and  add  three 
ounces  of  fresh  mushrooms  that  have  been  chopped 
very  fine  and  cooked  tender  in  a  teaspoonful  of 
butter ;  season  w^ith  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and 
stir  in  a  dessertspoonful  of  cream,  mix  thoroughly. 
Fill  the  whites  with  this  mixture,  rounding  the  top 
to  the  shape  and  size  of  a  whole  yolk  ;  sift  some  fine 
bread  crumbs  over  the  top  and  tiny  bits  of  butter, 
brown  a  moment  in  the  oven.  Arrange  on  a  dish  and 
pour  a  white  sauce  around  them  in  which  an  ounce 
of  chopped  and  cooked  mushrooms  has  been  stirred, 
garnish  with  parsley  and  serve. 

EGGS  WITH  CREAM. 
Melt  a  small  lump  of  butter  in  a  shallow  baking 
dish  and  break  into  it  carefully  six  eggs,  pour  over 
them  a  third  of  a  cup  of  boiling  cream,  place  in  a 
verj'  quick  oven  long  enough  to  set  the  whites  of 
eggs  and  serve  at  once  in  the  dish  in  -which  they  are 
baked.    Two  or  three  minutes  will  cook  them. 

CURRIED  EGGS. 
Boil  six  eggs  hard,  cut  in  half  lengthwise,  make  a 
white  sauce  and  stir  into  it  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
curry  powder ;  put  the  eggs  carefully  into  this  sauce, 
heat  thoroughly,  lift  them  out  and  place  in  the  center 
of  a  dish.  Arrange  boiled  rice  around  them,  pour  the 
sauce  over  the  eggs,  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve. 

26 


STUFFED  EGGS. 
Boil  six  eggs  hard,  cut  in  half  lengthwise,  take 
out  the  yolks  and  mash  them  very  fine ;  put  aside  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  it,  add  to  the  rest  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  rich  cream, 
a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste;  mix  well,  fill  the  whites  of  eggs,  rounding  the 
top  of  each  to  the  size  of  a  whole  egg.  Make  a  white 
sauce  as  follows:  Rub  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
butter  into  half  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  stir  into 
it  a  cup  of  boiling  milk ;  when  it  is  smooth  and  thick 
put  the  eggs  into  it  carefully,  when  hot  take  them 
out,  arrange  daintily  on  a  platter,  pour  the  sauce 
around  them,  sprinkle  the  teaspoonful  of  the  yolk 
reserved  over  them,  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve. 

FRIED  STUFFED  EGGS. 
Prepare  the  eggs  as  in  the  recipe  for  stuffed  eggs, 
filling  the  cavity  of  the  whites  evenly,  and  pressing 
the  tw^o  halves  together  so  as  to  make  it  appear  as  a 
whole  tgg.  Take  what  is  left  of  the  mixture,  add  to 
it  one  raw^  egg  beaten  light,  roll  each  egg  in  this,  cov- 
ering thoroughly  every  part  of  it,  and  fry  in  boiling 
fat.  Serve  around  a  dish  of  green  peas,  or  with  a 
cream  sauce  into  w^hich  has  been  stirred,  just  before 
removing  from  the  fire,  two  slightly  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 

FRICASSEED  EGGS. 
Put  tAvo  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  spider, 
w^hen  hot  add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir  until 
smooth,  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  finely  minced 
parsley  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  fresh  mush- 
rooms chopped  very  fine,  and  a  cup  of  rich  milk  or 
cream.  Cook  until  the  mushrooms  are  tender,  then 
add  four  or  five  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  quarters 
lengthwise ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  serve. 

27 


EGG  CHOPS. 

Take  five  or  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  rub  the  yolks 

through  a  sieve  and  chop  the  whites  rather  fine ;  put 

a  cupftil  of  milk  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  when  hot 

stir  into  it  a  tablespoonfiil  of  butter  rubbed  smooth 

in  tw^o  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with  one  raw  egg,  first 

adding  a  little  of  the  warm  milk,  then  pepper  and 

salt  to  taste,  and  if  liked  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice. 

Stir  constantly  until  thick  and  smooth,  remove  from 

the  fire,  add  the  prepared  eggs,  mix  well,  and  when 

cold  form  into  the  shape  of  chops,  dip  in  beaten  egg 

and  fine  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  until  a 

delicate  brown ;  stick  a  sprig  of  parsley  in  the  small 

end  of  each  chop,  arrange  in  the  middle  of  a  platter 

and  serve  with  a  white  sauce  around  them,  or  green 

peas. 

PLAIN  OMELET. 

Beat  six  eggs,  the  yolks  to  a  cream,  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  warm 
milk  to  the  3'olks  and  then  beat  into  the  whites  of 
eggs.  Put  a  small  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a 
spider,  when  it  is  hot  turn  the  eggs  into  it,  stirring 
gently  all  the  time  until  the  eggs  are  well  set ;  let  it 
brown,  fold  and  turn  out  on  a  hot  platter. 

OMELET  WITH  CHEESE. 

Follow  the  recipe  for  plain  omelet;  while  it  is 
cooking  stir  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  Parme- 
san cheese  and  finish  as  above. 

OMELET  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 
Make  an  omelet  as  in  preceding  recipe.  Have  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms  chopped  fine 
and  cooked  until  tender  in  a  little  butter  and  their 
own  juice,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add 
hot  to  the  omelet  just  before  folding  it. 


OMELET  WITH  TOMATOES. 
A  cup  of  tomatoes,  the  water  drained  from  them, 
cooked  and  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  onion  juice,  and  one  of  green  pepper 
chopped  verj'  fine ;  have  it  hot  and  add  to  the  omelet 
just  before  folding  it. 

POACHED  EGGS  WITH  TOMATO  CATSUP. 
Poach  some  eggs  in  boiling  water,  trim  nicely 
and  place  each  egg  on  a  round  of  toast  buttered  and 
moistened  with  a  little  hot  milk.  Have  ready  a 
white  sauce,  pour  it  over  them  and  put  on  the  top  of 
each  egg  a  teaspoonful  of  tomato  catsup;  garnish 
with  parsley  and  serve. 

EGGS  POACHED  IN  CREAM. 
Half  a  pint  of  cream,  six  eggs,  salt  and  white 
pepper,  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  finely  minced 
parsley.  Bring  the  cream  to  a  boil  in  a  chafing  dish, 
break  the  eggs  carefully,  to  keep  the  yolks  whole,  into 
the  cream  and  cook  until  the  whites  are  set — about 
three  minutes.  Have  a  delicate  slice  of  toast  for 
each  egg  on  hot  plates,  lay  an  egg  on  each,  pour  the 
cream  over  them,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
the  chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

EGGS  POACHED  IN  TOMATOES. 
Put  a  quart  can  of  tomatoes  in  a  saucepan  over 
the  fire  \vith  half  an  onion,  three  cloves,  a  bay  leaf, 
a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  saltspoonful  of  sugar,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  until  the  onion  is  tender 
— about  ten  minutes — remove  from  the  fire,  press 
through  a  sieve  fine  enough  to  retain  the  seeds.  Put 
this  in  a  spider ;  rub  an  even  teaspoonful  of  potato 
flour  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  to  the 
sauce,  and  when  it  boils  break  in  as  many  eggs  as 
required,  keep  them  from  sticking  to  the  pan  by  run- 


ning  a  tablespoon  carefully  around  the  edges ;  when 
the  eggs  are  set  remove  from  the  sauce,  place  each 
one  on  a  round  of  nice  toast  and  pour  the  sauce 
around  them ;  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve. 

EGGS  IN  A  BROWN  SAUCE. 
Boil  hard  as  many  eggs  as  needed  and  cut  either 
lengthwise  in  quarters  or  in  round  slices.  Brown  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  flour  together, 
add  a  small  onion,  cut  fine ;  when  thick  and  smooth 
add  enough  vegetable  stock  to  make  the  sauce  the 
proper  consistency,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
strain.  Put  the  egg  slices  in  the  sauce,  let  it  come  to 
the  boiling  point  and  serve  on  a  small  platter ;  gar- 
nish with  parsley.  Half  a  dozen  olives  boiled  in  a 
little  water  and  cut  from  the  stones  are  a  nice  addi- 
tion to  the  sauce. 


Soups. 


Bran  tea,  made  in  the  proportion  of  a  pint  of  bran  to  three 
quarts  of  water,  is  used  by  many  vegetarians  as  a  foundation  for 
soup.    Butter  should  be  used  generously  with  it. 

A  broth  made  from  white  beans  is  also  good  where  a  white 
stock  is  required.  Pick  over  the  beans  carefully,  soak  over  night, 
drain  and  add  fresh  water  in  the  morning — three  pints  of  water  to 
a  pint  of  beans— cook  gently  until  tender.  If  it  is  to  be  used  as  a 
stock,  strain  without  mashing  the  beans.  If  the  water  they  are 
boiled  in  is  hard,  a  small  pinch  of  soda  will  soften  it. 

CREAM  OF  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES. 
Wash  and  peel  enough  artichokes  to  make  a 
pint  when  cut  in  sHces.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  let  them  simmer  in 
this  for  a  few  minutes  without  taking  color,  then 
cover  with  water  and  boil  until  tender.  Rub  through 
a  sieve,  put  back  on  the  stove  with  a  quart  of  milk, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rubbed  into  a  table- 
spoonful — slightly  heaping — of  flour,  season  to  taste 
with  salt  and  pepper,  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  add  two  egg  j^olks,  beaten  with 
half  a  cup  of  cream,  stir  rapidU%  and  serve  at  once. 

CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS. 
Prepare  a  bunch  of  asparagus  in  the  usual  way 
for  cooking,  cut  off  the  points  about  an  inch  in 
length  and  put  aside.  Cover  the  stalks  and  half  an 
onion  cut  in  slices,  with  boiling  w^ater,  cook  until 
tender  and  press  through  a  puree  sieve  with  the 
water  they  were  boiled  in.  Melt  a  good  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  stir  into  it  half  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  add  the  puree  of  asparagus 
and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  season  with  salt  and  pepper 


to  taste.  Have  the  asparagus  points  cooked  tender 
in  a  little  water.  Have  ready  a  pint  of  boiling  milk, 
remove  both  from  the  fire  and  stir  the  milk  into  the 
soup,  put  the  asparagus  points  into  the  tureen.  Beat 
two  egg  yolks  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 
stir  quickly  into  the  soup  and  pour  into  the  tureen. 

CREAM  OF  LIMA  BEANS. 
Put  over  the  fire  a  quart  of  lima  beans  in  boiling 
water  to  cover  them  ;  w^hen  nearly  tender  add  a  baj^ 
leaf,  half  a  white  onion,  and  salt  and  white  pepper 
to  taste.  Let  them  cook  until  very  tender,  remove 
from  the  fire,  and  mash  through  a  colander  with  the 
water  in  which  they  were  boiled.  Put  back  in  the 
saucepan  on  the  range,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  add 
a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing milk,  stir  well,  remove  and  press  through  a  puree 
sieve  that  it  may  be  smooth.  Beat  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  cream,  add  when  the  soup  is  in  the  tureen  and 
serve  immediately.  This  soup  is  very  nice  when  made 
from  the  best  canned  lima  beans,  using  two  cans  and 
following  the  recipe  as  above. 

CREAM  OF  CAULIFLOWER. 
Cut  one  small  cauliflower  into  flowerettes,  reserve 
a  tablespoonful,  put  the  rest  into  a  saucepan  w^ith 
three  cups  of  boiling  water,  one  small  white  onion, 
half  a  small  celeriac  cut  in  slices,  and  a  ba^-  leaf. 
Cook  together  ten  minutes,  drain  and  put  the  veg- 
etables into  a  double  boiler  w4th  two  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  steam  for  ten  minutes.  Put 
the  flowerettes  into  the  water  the  vegetables  were 
boiled  in  and  cook  until  tender,  remove  and  put  aside 
to  keep  warm,  measure  the  water  and  add  sufficient 
from  the  kettle  to  make  two  cupfuls,  pour  this  over 
the  vegetables,  cook  until  tender  and  press  through 


a  fine  sieve.  Bring  two  cups  of  milk  to  the  boiling 
point,  turn  the  puree  into  this,  let  it  boil  up  once, 
remove  from  the  fire.  Beat  two  egg  yolks  and  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  rich  cream  together,  add  some  of 
the  soup  to  this,  then  mix  all  together,  turn  into  the 
tureen,  add  the  flowerettes  and  serve  at  once. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY. 
Take  of  the  coarser  parts  of  celerj^  as  much  as 
will  make  two  heads,  wash  and  cut  in  pieces,  put  in 
a  saucepan  with  half  an  onion  cut  in  slices  and  cover 
with  boiling  water.  Cook  until  tender  and  press 
through  a  sieve  with  the  water  in  which  it  was 
boiled.  Make  a  roux  of  butter  and  flour  as  in  other 
cream  soups,  add  the  puree  to  it  and  as  much  boiling 
milk  as  will  make  it  the  proper  consistency.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  finish  with  a  beaten  egg 
yolk  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  adding  this 
after  the  soup  has  been  removed  from  the  fire. 

CREAM   OF   CHESTNUTS. 

Shell  and  blanch  a  pint  of  large  French  chestnuts. 
Put  them  in  a  saucepan  and  almost  cover  them  with 
boiling  water,  cook  until  tender.  Before  they  are 
quite  done  add  a  little  salt.  When  done  remove  from 
the  fire,  rub  through  a  puree  sieve  with  the  water 
they  were  boiled  in.  Melt  a  generous  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  with  an  even  tablespoonful  of 
flour  and  add  to  it  by  degrees  a  pint  of  boiling  milk, 
let  it  cook  until  thick,  then  stir  in  the  chestnut  puree 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil 
and  serve. 

CREAM   OF    CUCUMBERS. 

Peel  and  cut  into  slices  four  cucumbers  and  one 
small  white  onion,  put  in  a  saucepan  with  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  them,  cook  until  tender,  press 
through  a  fine  sieve  and  pour  into  a  saucepan,  stand 

33 


Avhere  it  will  keep  hot  without  cooking.  Have  a 
cream  sauce  ready,  made  by  melting  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  let  them  cook  together  until 
the  mixture  no  longer  adheres  to  the  pan,  then  add 
gradually  a  quart  of  milk,  an  even  teaspoonful  of 
white  pepper,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  let  it  boil 
for  a  few  minutes  until  thick  and  pour  into  the 
cucumber  puree,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rich 
cream,  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point,  and  serve  at 
once.  This  is  a  verj^  delicate  soup,  and  cooking  or 
stcinding  on  the  stove  after  it  is  done  will  spoil  it. 
Groult's  potato  flour  is  nicer  for  thickening  cream 
soups  than  the  common  flour,  but,  if  used,  only  half 
the  quantity'  called  for  in  the  recipes  is  needed. 

CREAM  OF  SUMMER  SQUASH. 
Peel  the  squash,  slice  thin,  put  in  a  saucepan  and 
add  boiling  water  to  come  nearh-  to  the  top  of  the 
squash.  When  nearly  tender  add  an  onion,  a  bay 
leaf  and  several  sprigs  of  parsley.  When  tender  mash 
through  a  fine  sieve,  return  to  the  fire,  let  it  come  to 
a  boil,  stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  tiny  pinch  of  mace.  Have  almost  as 
much  boiling  milk  as  puree,  remove  from  the  fire  and 
stir  together,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  and 
serve  at  once. 

CREAM  OF  LETTUCE. 
Take  two  heads  of  nice,  fresh  lettuce,  wash  and 
drain  and  chop  fine  with  half  a  small  white  onion, 
put  in  a  saucepan  with  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  cook  for  about  ten  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
time,  then  add  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  rice 
and  a  quart  of  milk.  Let  it  boil  for  twenty  minutes 
until  the  rice  is  perfectly  tender,  remove  from  the  fire 


and  press  through  a  puree  sieve,  using  a  small  potato 
masher,  then  strain  and  press  again  through  a  fine 
hair  sieve;  this  will  make  it  smooth.  Season  with 
salt  to  taste  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  a 
small  half  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Put  in  a  fresh  sauce- 
pan, rub  together  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  butter 
and  an  even  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  and  stir  into 
the  soup.  Let  it  come  to  the  boihng  point  and 
remove  from  the  fire,  adding  at  the  last  moment  a 
quarter  of  a  cupful  of  whipped  cream.  Serve  with  or 
without  fried  croutons. 

CREAM  OF  MUSHROOMS. 
Wash  one  pound  of  mushrooms,  skin  and  stem 
them.  Put  the  skins  and  stems  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
cup  of  boiling  water  and  boil  ten  minutes,  strain  and 
add  to  this  water  the  mushroom  flaps  chopped  very 
fine,  and  cook  until  tender,  then  press  through  a  fine 
sieve.  Melt  two  large  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  stir  into  it  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  when  smooth  add  a 
quart  of  rich  milk,  a  whole  clove  of  garlic,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  When  it  boils  and  thickens  add  the 
mushroom  stock,  kt  it  boil  up  once,  remove  the  clove 
of  garlic,  turn  the  soup  into  the  tureen  and  serve. 

CREAM  OF  GREEN  PEAS. 
Put  a  quart  of  green  peas  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  slice  of  white  onion,  cover  with  boiling  water  and 
cook  until  tender.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  press 
through  a  puree  sieve  with  the  water  in  which  they 
were  boiled.  Return  to  the  saucepan,  set  it  back  on 
the  stove,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  add  a  pint  of  rich 
milk,  salt  and  white  pepper  to  taste,  a  dash  of  cay- 
enne, and  a  large,  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter 
rubbed  into  an  even  tablespoonful  of  flour,  adding  a 


little  of  the  liquid  before  stirring  into  the  soup.  Let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
whipped  cream  just  as  it  is  poured  into  the  tureen. 

CREAM  OF  RICE. 
Wash  carefully  a  third  of  a  cup  of  rice  and  put  it 
on  the  fire  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water  with  a  Avhite 
onion  and  a  stick  of  celery,  let  it  cook  slo\vly  for  an 
hour,  then  stir  in  a  quart  of  milk  and  let  it  come  to 
a  boil,  add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
press  through  a  puree  sieve.  Put  the  soup  back  on 
the  fire  while  beating  an  egg  yolk  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  and  a  teaspoonful  of  parsley 
minced  very  fine.  Remove  the  soup  from  the  fire, 
stir  in  the  egg  and  cream,  pour  into  the  tureen  and 
serve. 

CREAM  OF  SPINACH. 

Take  two  large  handfuls  of  spinach,  after  it  is 
washed  and  picked  over,  a  small  head  of  lettuce,  a 
few  sprigs  of  parsle}^  and  a  small  white  onion  peeled 
and  sliced.  Put  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  dozen  peppercorns  and 
two  cloves,  and  a  very  little  boiling  water,  cover 
and  stand  it  where  the  vegetables  will  onl3r  simmer. 
When  they  are  tender  rub  together  a  generous  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful of  flour,  and  stir  it  into  the  vegetables. 
Add  a  little  boiling  water,  mash  the  vegetables 
smooth  and  press  them  through  a  fine  sieve.  Have 
the  puree  as  thick  as  possible,  return  to  the  sauce- 
pan. Have  readj^  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  beat  two 
egg  yolks  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  pour  a 
little  of  the  boiling  milk  into  them,  and  the  rest  into 
the  puree,  remove  from  the  fire  at  once,  then  add  the 
eggs  and  cream,  pour  into  the  tureen  and  serve 
immediately. 

36 


CARROT  SOUP. 
Take  half  a  dozen  small  French  carrots,  wash 
and  scrape  them,  put  in  a  saucepan  with  boiling 
water  and  cook  until  tender,  remove  from  the  fire, 
mix  with  milk  and  press  through  a  sieve.  Melt  two 
ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  rub  into  it  a 
slightly  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  add  a  few 
grains  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  stir  in  a  little  at  a 
time  the  carrot  puree  until  smooth  like  cream,  add  a 
few  slices  of  cooked  celery  root  (celeriac),  and  salt  to 
taste,  and  pour  into  the  puree.  A  tablespoonful  of 
sherr^^  if  liked,  may  be  added.  Serve  with  fried 
croutons. 

CELERIAC   SOUP. 

Wash,  peel  and  slice  three  celery  roots,  put  them 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  until 
tender,  and  mash  them  through  a  puree  sieve  with 
the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled.  Melt  a  good 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  stir  into  it  a  small 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  add  to  it  the  celery  puree, 
season  with  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Add  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  macaroni  previously 
boiled  in  water.  As  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  re- 
move from  the  fire  and  add  as  much  boiling  milk  as 
will  make  it  the  proper  consistency.  Beat  two  egg 
yolks  with  half  a  cup  of  cream  and  stir  in  quickly 
just  before  pouring  the  soup  into  the  tureen.  Care 
must  be  taken  to  do  this  off  the  fire,  as  celery  soup  is 
liable  to  curdle. 

MOCK  CLAM  SOUP. 

Soak  a  oint  of  marrowfat  beans  over  night  in 
^vate^  enough  to  cover  them.  In  the  morning  drain, 
and  put  them  on  the  fire  with  a  small  onion  and  a 
gallon  of  cold  water,  boil  until  tender  and  strain. 
Add  to  the  stock  a  little  summer  savorv%  two  ounces 
of  butter  and  a  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  season 


Avith  salt  and  pepper.  When  the  soup  comes  to  a 
boil,  cut  two  slices  of  toast  into  dice,  and  four  hard- 
boiled  eggs  in  slices,  put  in  the  tureen  and  pour  the 
soup  over  them  and  serve. 

CORN  AND  TOMATO  SOUP. 
Grate  the  com  from  six  ears  of  sweet  com.  Put 
the  cobs  into  a  quart  and  a  pint  of  w^ater  and  cook 
until  all  the  sweetness  is  extracted — about  half  an 
hour.  Remove  the  cobs  and  add  a  pint  of  tomatoes 
after  they  are  skinned  and  sliced,  a  small  onion  cut 
in  slices,  a  French  carrot  cut  in  dice,  a  quarter  of  a 
green  pepper  chopped  fine,  and  the  grated  com.  Let 
it  cook  slowly  until  all  are  tender.  Stir  in  two  good 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
pour  into  the  tureen  and  serve. 

SOUP  CRECY. 
Take  three  large  carrots,  wash  and  scrape  and 
cut  them  into  slices,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
half  an  onion,  a  stick  of  celery,  and  a  bay  leaf,  more 
than  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  take  out  the  bay  leaf  and  rub 
the  vegetables  through  a  sieve  wnth  the  water  they 
were  boiled  in.  Put  back  in  the  saucepan.  Rub  a 
generous  tablespoonful  of  butter  with  half  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  stir  into  the  puree,  add  to  it  a 
cup  and  a  half  of  boiling  milk,  stir  until  thick,  add 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Take  from  the  fire,  and 
stir  into  it  one  egg  yolk  beaten  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  cream.    Serve  at  once. 

CURRY  SOUP. 

Prepare  for  cooking  tw^o  small  -white  onions,  two 

French  carrots  and  half  a  turnip  cut  in  slices,  and 

cook  slowly  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water  until  they  fall 

to  pieces,  cook  with  them  until  tender  a  celeriac  root. 


remove  from  the  other  vegetables  and  put  one  side. 
Melt  t"wo  ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  stir  in 
a  slightly  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  an  even 
dessertspoonful  of  curry  powder,  mix  well  together 
and  then  add  a  pint  of  milk.  Strain  the  vegetables 
through  a  fine  sieve,  but  do  not  press  them,  and  add 
the  stock  therefrom  to  the  milk, etc.,  in  the  saucepan, 
and  salt  to  taste.  Beat  half  a  cup  of  cream  with 
two  egg  yolks  until  light,  remove  the  soup  from  the 
fire,  mix  a  little  of  it  with  the  eggs  and  cream,  turn 
it  back  into  the  saucepan,  stir  well  together  and  pour 
at  once  into  the  tureen  in  which  you  have  already 
placed  the  celeriac  cut  in  slices.  If  liked,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  Madeira  may  be  added  just  before  the 
soup  is  turned  into  the  tureen.     Serve  with  croutons. 

MOCK  FISH  SOUP. 
It  is  betttr  to  prepare  the  balls  for  this  soup  first, 
as  follows :  Put  in  a  saucepan  a  tablespoonful  of 
white  flour  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  Groult's  po- 
tato flour,  stir  together  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  a  cup  of  milk,  mix  all  together  and  place 
on  the  stove  where  it  is  not  very  hot.  Stir  con- 
stantly until  it  is  smooth  and  no  longer  sticks  to  the 
pan,  remove  from  the  fire,  let  it  cool,  and  beat  in  two 
eggs,  one  at  a  time,  season  with  a  dash  of  cayenne, 
a  few  grains  of  powdered  mace,  a  few  drops  of  onion 
juice,  a  little  salt  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
These  balls  must  be  seasoned  very  delicately.  Cook 
and  drain  as  the  spinach  balls  are  done,  using  a  tea- 
spoon instead  of  a  tablespoon.  Put  to  one  side 
while  the  soup  is  being  made.  For  the  soup  take 
three  French  carrots,  half  a  parsnip,  half  a  white 
onion  and  a  little  green  pepper  chopped  fine,  cover 
with  boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender.  Melt  a 
generous  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and 


when  it  bubbles  stir  into  it  a  small  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  then  add  three  cups  of  milk  and  let  it  come  to 
a  boil.  When  the  vegetables  are  tender  stir  them 
into  the  thickened  milk  with  the  water  they  were 
boiled  in,  together  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Then  put  the  balls  in 
and  let  the  soup  come  to  a  boil,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
finely  minced  parsley-  and  remove  from  the  fire.  Have 
one  egg  yolk  beaten  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream  and  stir  in  carefulh'  so  as  not  to  break  the 
balls  just  before  turning  the  soup  into  the  tureen. 

A  NORWEGIAN  SWEET  SOUP. 
Put  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  rice  into  three  cups  of 
boiling  water  with  a  small  stick  of  cinnamon,  and 
let  it  boil  nearly  an  hour.  About  fifteen  minutes  be- 
fore it  is  done  add  half  a  cup  of  raisins  stoned.  Beat 
two  egg  yolks  with  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
until  white  and  cream3%  then  stir  into  them  about 
half  a  cup  of  sweet  cider,  remove  the  soup  from  the 
fire,  add  a  little  of  it  to  the  eggs  and  cider,  stir  well, 
and  mix  all  together  rapidh^  and  serve  at  once.  Two 
tablespoonfuls  of  good  sherry  improves  it. 

ONION  SOUP. 
Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  spider, 
w^hen  it  bubbles  add  four  large  onions,  washed, 
skinned  and  cut  in  slices,  let  them  simmer  without 
browning  about  half  an  hour,  then  stir  in  a  slightly 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour.  When  it  thickens 
pour  in  gradually  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  milk, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  press  through 
a  puree  sieve,  and  return  to  the  fire.  While  it  is  get- 
ting hot,  beat  together  two  egg  3^olks  and  half  a  cup 
of  cream,  remove  from  the  stove  and  stir  the  eggs 
and  cream  into  it  rapidly,  pour  at  once  into  the 
tureen  and  serve. 


SOUP  OF  GREEN  PEAS.-No.  U 
Take  from  a  pint  of  green  peas  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  and  set  aside.  Put  the  rest  in  a 
saucepan  with  half  a  white  onion,  in  boihng  water. 
Cover  tightly,  letting  them  cook  until  quite  tender, 
then  mash  through  a  puree  sieve  with  the  water  in 
which  they  were  boiled,  and  using  a  little  more  to 
take  out  all  that  is  good  of  the  peas  through  the 
sieve.  Put  back  on  the  stove,  rub  a  good  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter  with  a  small  tablespoonful  of 
flour  and  add  to  the  puree  of  peas.  Have  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  turnips  and  two  of  carrots  cut  into 
dice  and  cooked  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  and 
the  two  tablespoonfuls  of  peas  cooked  until  tender, 
add  to  the  soup  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Let  all  this  cook  together 
while  enough  milk  to  make  the  soup  the  proper  con- 
sistency is  coming  to  a  boil.  Mix  together,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  finely  minced  parsley,  pour  into  the 
tureen  and  serve. 

SOUP  OF  GREEN  PEAS.-N0.  2. 
Put  one  quart  of  green  peas  over  the  fire  in  three 
quarts  of  boiling  -water  with  three  French  carrots,  a 
small  turnip  cut  into  dice  and  a  small  white  onion 
chopped.  Cover  tightly  and  let  the  vegetables  cook 
until  tender.  Rub  two  ounces  of  butter  with  a  small 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  add  a  little  of  the  soup  to  this 
to  thin  it  and  then  stir  all  together,  add  an  even 
tablespoonful  of  finelj^  minced  parsley,  an  even  tea- 
spoonful of  sugar,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  let 
it  come  to  a  boil  and  then  serve. 

POTATO  SOUP. 
Take  four  large  potatoes,   peel  and    boil  them 
tender  in  v^ater,  mash  very  fine  with  a  small  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  add  as  much  boiling  milk  as  will 


make  it  the  right  consistency.  Boil  in  as  little  water 
as  possible  one  tablespoonful  of  turnips  and  two  of 
carrots  cut  into  dice ;  when  tender  turn  all  into  the 
soup,  add  a  little  cayenne  and  salt  to  taste.  Just 
before  serving  beat  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  cream  w^ith 
one  egg  yolk,  remove  the  soup  from  the  fire  and  stir 
the  two  together  as  in  other  cream  soups,  and  serve 
at  once  with  fried  croutons. 

PUREE  OF  VEGETABLES. 

Cut  fine  three  onions,  one  turnip,  two  French 
carrots  and  four  potatoes,  put  in  a  saucepan  wath 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  little  parsley ;  let 
them  cook  about  ten  minutes,  then  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour.  Stir  w^ell  and  add  two  quarts  of  boiling- 
milk,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  tiny  bit  of 
sugar,  and  when  it  boils  take  out  the  parsley,  press 
the  soup  through  a  sieve  and  serve  with  croutons 
of  fried  bread. 

PUREE  OF  TURNIPS. 

Peel  and  slice  some  young  turnips,  add  an  onion 
and  carrot  sliced,  cover  w^ith  boiling  water  and  cook 
until  tender.  Mash  them  in  the  water  and  press 
through  a  fine  sieve.  To  a  pint  of  the  puree  have  a 
pint  of  boiling  milk.  Return  the  puree  to  the  fire,  and 
stir  into  it  a  large  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
a  small  pinch  of  mace.  Take  the  milk  from  the  stove 
and  stir  briskh'  into  it  two  egg  yolks  beaten  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  then  remove  the  puree 
from  the  stove  and  stir  the  eggs  and  milk  into  it, 
season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP. 
One  cup  and   a  half  of  green  peas,  three  small 
French    carrots,   and  a  small    cauliflower  cut  into 
flowerettes,  one  pint  of  milk,  half  a  cup  of  cream,  a 


good  half  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Wash  and  scrape 
the  carrots,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  boil  each  vegetable 
by  itself  in  as  little  water  as  possible.  When  the 
carrots  and  peas  are  done  put  them  together  in  a 
saucepan  with  the  water  in  which  they  were  cooked, 
add  the  milk,  put  the  saucepan  on  the  fire  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil, rub  the  butter  and  flour  together, mix 
with  a  little  milk  and  stir  into  the  vegetables.  Drain 
the  water  well  from  the  flowerettes,  and  just  before 
serving  put  them  in  the  tureen.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
eggs  and  the  cream  together  in  a  bowl,  remove  the 
soup  from  the  fire,  add  a  little  of  it  to  the  eggs  and 
cream,  then  turn  them  into  the  soup,  stir  well  and 
pour  it  into  the  tureen. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

Put  a  generous  tablespoonftd  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  when  it  is  hot  add  half  an  onion  chopped 
fine,  let  it  stew  gently  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  a 
pint  of  canned  tomatoes,  cook  half  an  hour.  Rub  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one  of  butter 
smoothly  together  and  stir  into  the  tomatoes.  Have 
readv  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  pour  the  tomatoes  into 
a  puree  sieve  with  the  boiling  milk  and  rub  through 
the  sieve.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  very 
little  sugar.  Return  to  the  fire,  make  it  hot,  but  be 
careful  not  to  let  it  boil,  as  it  will  curdle.  Serve  at 
once  with  croutons. 

BARLEY  SOUP. 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  well  washed  barley 
with  a  bay  leaf  and  a  small  blade  of  mace  into  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  cold  water,  boil  slowly  for  three  hours. 
Take  out  the  bay  leaf  and  mace  and  add  a  small 
onion  cut  fine,  two  French  carrots  cut  in  dice,  and 
cook  until  tender,  then  add  a  pint  of  milk,  a  good 


heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  remove  from  the  fire  and 
stir  into  it  one  egg  yolk  beaten  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cream. 

BLACK  BEAN  SOUP  WITH  MOCK  MEAT  BALLS. 

Soak  over  night  a  pint  of  black  beans  in  a  quart 
of  water.  In  the  morning  drain,  and  cover  with 
fresh  water,  set  the  saucepan  on  the  stove ;  when  the 
water  comes  to  a  boil  drain  it  off  and  add  a  quart  of 
fresh  water.  Cut  fine  an  onion,  and  with  a  few  slices 
of  carrot  and  turnip  and  green  pepper  fry  in  a  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  to  the  beans  with  a 
bay  leaf  half  a  dozen  peppercorns,  two  cloves,  cook 
until  tender,  press  through  a  sieve,  return  to  the  fire, 
and  if  it  is  too  thick  add  more  water.  Have  a  hard 
boiled  egg  and  half  a  lemon  cut  into  dice,  and  meat 
balls  made  from  recipe  given  for  mock  meat  the  size 
of  hickory  nuts  and  boiled  in  water  as  other  balls  are 
cooked.  Drop  the  balls  into  the  soup,  and  when  hot 
pour  the  soup  over  the  lemon  and  egg  in  the  tureen 
and  serve. 


Entrees. 

EGG  BORDER  WITH  RICE  AND  CURRY  SAUCE. 

Stir  four  eggs  together,  add  three-quarters  of  a 
cup  of  rich  milk,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste;  beat  a  httle.  Have  a  border 
mould  well  buttered  and  sprinkled  with  finely  minced 
parsley,  pour  the  mixture  into  it,  set  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water  in  the  oven,  cover  and  let  it  cook  until 
firm— from  five  to  ten  minutes.  Have  ready  some 
rice  boiled  twenty  minutes  in  plenty  of  salted  water 
and  well  drained,  and  a  cream  sauce  into  which  a 
slightly  heaping  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder  has 
been  stirred.  Turn  the  egg  border  out  on  a  hot 
platter,  fill  the  center  with  rice,  pour  some  of  the 
sauce  over  it,  and  the  rest  around  the  border.  Gar- 
nish with  parsley  and  serve  at  once. 

RICE  BORDER  WITH  VEGETABLES  OR  HARD  BOILED 
EGGS  IN  CREAM  SAUCE. 
Three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  Carolina  rice,  picked 
over  carefully  and  washed.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  in 
salted  water.  Drain  off  the  water  and  have  one  pint 
and  a  half  of  boiling  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  stir  the 
rice  into  this  and  cook  until  all  the  milk  is  absorbed, 
then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Butter  a  border 
mould  well,  turn  the  rice  into  it,  pressing  it  down  so 
that  the  form  will  be  perfect,  put  in  the  plate  heater 
for  five  minutes,  turn  out  on  a  platter  and  serve  with 
vegetables  or  hard  boiled  eggs  in  a  cream  sauce. 

A  BORDER  TIMBALE  OF  MOCK  CHICKEN. 
Take  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  rich  milk,  put 
half  of  it  into  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  and  a  half 
of  butter,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  then  stir  into  it 


an  ounce  and  a  half  of  dried  and  sifted  bread  crumbs 
and  a  good  half  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Stir  con- 
stanth^  until  it  no  longer  sticks  to  the  pan,  remove 
from  the  fire  and  let  it  cool.  When  cold  add  two 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  finely  chopped  walnuts, 
one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  one  teaspoonful  of 
onion  juice,  one  even  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  mace,  two  eggs  unbeaten — one  at  a  time 
— and  the  rest  of  the  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Beat  hard.  Butter  well  a  border  mould,  and  sprinkle 
with  fine  bread  crumbs,  turn  the  timbale  mixture 
into  it,  set  the  mould  in  a  pan  of  boiling  -water,  cover 
to  keep  from  browning,  and  bake  from  ten  to  fifteen 
minutes. 

Sauce. — Put  in  a  spider  a  good  heaping  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  let  it  brown,  add  a  thick  slice  of 
onion  cut  in  small  pieces  and  a  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour,  stir  constantly  until  it  is  a  very  dark 
rich  brown,  being  careful  not  to  let  it  burn,  then  add 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms,  skinned 
and  stemmed  and  cut  into  dice,  let  them  cook  a  few 
minutes,  then  add  a  stock  made  from  their  stems  and 
skins.  Have  a  celery  root  that  has  been  pared  and 
cut  into  dice  and  cooked  until  tender  in  very  little 
water  with  a  bay  leaf  and  two  cloves,  remove  the 
cloves  and  bay  leaf  and  turn  the  rest  into  the  sauce, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Turn  the  timbale  out 
on  a  platter,  fill  the  center  with  the  sauce,  garnish 
and  serve.  A  few  truffles  are  a  great  addition.  The 
timbale  may  also  be  served  with  an  olive  sauce. 

A  MOULD  OF  SPAGHETTINA. 
Put  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  spaghettina,  bro- 
ken in  small  pieces,  into  a  quart  of  boiling  water 
with  an  even  tablespoonful  of  salt.     Boil  half  an 
hour.     Drain  the  water  off  and  add  a  cup  of  milk  to 


the  spaghettina,  and  cook  nearly  half  an  hour,  until 
the  milk  is  almost  all  absorbed.  Then  make  a  cream 
sauce  as  follows :  One  cup  of  milk  in  a  saucepan,  rub 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  a  slightly  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  adding  a  little  of  the  ^^arm 
milk,  then  stir  into  the  milk  on  the  fire,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  add  two  even  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  cheese — the  American  Edam  cheese  is  nice  for 
this — and  when  the  sauce  is  thick  turn  the  spaghet- 
tina into  it,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  turn  out  on  a  dish, 
and  when  cool  add  one  egg  beaten  light.  Butter  a 
border  mould  which  holds  a  little  more  than  a  pint, 
sprinkle  it  with  bread  crumbs,  turn  the  mixture  into 
it  and  set  the  mould  into  a  pan  of  hot  water  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  t^vent3'-fiYe  minutes.  Have 
a  pint  of  nicely  stewed  tomatoes  seasoned  to  taste 
and  thickened  with  bread  crumbs  and  a  good  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Turn  the  spaghettina  mould  out 
on  a  platter,  fill  the  center  with  the  stewed  tomatoes, 
garnish  with  parsley  and  serve.  It  makes  a  very 
pretty  dish  and  is  an  excellent  piece  de  resistance  for 
dinner  or  luncheon. 

SPINACH  BORDER  MOULD. 
Prepare  the  spinach  as  in  recipe  for  spinach  pud- 
ding, butter  a  border  mould,  dust  it  with  bread 
crumbs,  and  press  the  spinach  mixture  into  it,  put 
the  mould  into  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  the  oven,  cover 
it  to  prevent  browning,  and  bake  about  twenty 
minutes. 

A  FILLING  FOR  THE  CENTER  OF  MOULD  OF  SPINACH. 
Break  two  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  little  salt  and 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  beat  them  slightly. 
Turn  into  a  buttered  tin  cup  and  stand  in  a  saucepan 
Avith  a  little  boiling  water  in  it  on  the  stove,  cover 
and  cook  until  stifi'^about  three  or  four  minutes — 


remove  from  the  fire,  turn  out  of  the  mould  and  cut 
in  half-inch  slices  and  then  into  stars  or  any  fancy 
shape  preferred,  or  into  dice.  Make  a  cream  sauce, 
turn  the  spinach  mould  out  on  a  platter,  put  a  little 
of  the  savice  in  the  center,  then  some  of  the  egg  stars, 
then  the  rest  of  the  sauce,  and  finish  with  the  egg 
stars. 

MOCK  COD  nSH  BALLS. 
Six  medium  sized  potatoes,  washed,  peeled  and 
boiled  for  ten  minutes  in  salted  water.  Drain  and 
grate  them  while  hot  and  stir  in  two  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter;  mix  thoroughly.  Season  with 
salt,  caj'enne  pepper  to  taste,  and  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  grated  onion  and  a  saltspoonful  of  mace.  Beat 
tw^o  egg  yolks  light  and  stir  well  into  it  with  two 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  brown 
in  small  balls  in  boiling  fat  without  crowding  them 
in  the  basket,  drain  on  kitchen  paper  and  serve  very 
hot  on  a  platter,  garnish  with  parsley. 

MOCK  FISH  BALLS  IN  CURRY  OR  CREAM  SAUCE. 
Five  ounces  of  plain  boiled  potatoes  put  through 
a  patent  vegetable  strainer  or  mashed  very  fine.  Add 
three  ounces  of  butter  and  a  slightly  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  Groult's  potato  flour,  two  eggs  slightly 
beaten  and  stirred  in — a  little  at  a  time — a  few  drops 
of  onion  juice  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Have  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  salted  water  over  the  fire,  dip  a 
tablespoon  in  cold  water  and  then  into  the  mixture 
and  take  out  in  oblong  balls  as  nicely  and  uniformly 
shaped  as  possible,  and  drop  them  carefully  into  the 
boiling  water,  which  must  not  boil  too  violently  as 
the  mixture  is  tender  and  would  cook  to  pieces.  Put 
them  in  without  crowding  and  let  them  cook  three 
minutes,  taking  them  out  one  after  another  as  they 
are  done.     Put  in  a  colander  to  drain  while  prepar- 


mg  the  curry  sauce.  Melt  in  a  saucepan  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  add  to  it  a  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  curry  pow- 
der, stir  well  and  add  milk  until  of  the  consistency 
of  cream  sauce.  Put  the  balls  into  the  sauce  and  let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  good  Madeira.  Serve  on  a  platter, 
garnish  with  parsley  and  serve.  The  curry  powder 
and  wine  may  be  omitted  if  not  liked,  and  the  balls 
served  in  plain  cream  sauce. 

MOCK  FISH  (a  Norwegian  dish). 
Take  three  or  four  large  white  potatoes.  Wash 
and  peel  them  and  boil  until  only  half  done.  Grate 
them,  and  take  onh^the  part  that  has  passed  through 
the  grater — that  it  may  be  light.  Then  weigh  out 
half  a  pound.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  very  light 
with  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  cream,  mix  with  the  pota- 
toes and  add  three  ounces  of  butter  melted,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  grated  w^hite  onion,  a  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  Butter  a  mould  well, 
sprinkle  it  with  dried  and  sifted  bread  crumbs,  put 
the  mixture  in  it,  and  set  the  mould  in  a  pan  of  boil- 
ing water  in  the  oven,  cover  the  mould  and  bake  half 
an  hour.  Turn  out  carefully  on  a  platter,  pour  a 
cream  or  Hollandaise  sauce  around  it,  and  garnish 
with  parsley.  Serve  very  hot  with  a  cucumber  salad 
Avith  French  dressing,  as  a  fish  course. 

MOCK  MEAT. 
Put  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk  and  three 
ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire.  When  it 
boils  stir  in  three  ounces  of  dried  and  rolled  bread 
crumbs  and  a  slightly  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Let  it  cook  until  it 
no  longer  adheres  to  the  pan,  then  remove  from  the 
fire.    When  it  is  cool,  add  three  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 


beating  until  smooth,  then  add  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  walnut  meats,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Make  into 
flat  cakes,  a  little  less  than  half  an  inch  thick,  like 
sausage  cakes,  dip  them  in  flour,  put  them  into  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  salted  water  and  cook  for  three 
or  four  minutes.  Take  them  up,  drain  them  from  the 
water,  dip  in  flour  again,  and  brown  them  in  hot 
butter  in  a  spider.  Set  them  one  side  to  keep  hot.  In 
another  spider  make  a  sauce.  Put  in  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  a  generous  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
walnut  meats,  let  them  all  brown  nicely  together, 
then  stir  in  a  vegetable  stock  that  has  been  strained 
until  the  gravy  is  as  thick  as  cream. 
SPAGHETTINA  CHOPS. 
Spaghettina  is  finer  than  spaghetti,  and  for  sale 
at  Italian  groceries.  Half  a  cup  of  milk,  half  a  cup 
of  spaghettina,  broken  into  bits,  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  grated  cheese,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  one  egg.  Put  the  spa- 
ghettina on  in  boiling  salted  water,  boil  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  drain  well  in  a  colander.  Make 
the  sauce  by  melting  the  butter  and  stirring  the  flour 
into  it  until  smooth,  then  add  the  cheese  and  milk 
and  the  spaghettina.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  stir 
in  quickly  the  beaten  egg,  let  it  thicken,  remove  at 
once  from  the  fire,  turn  it  out  in  a  deep  plate,  and 
when  cold  form  it  into  chops,  dip  them  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  boiling  fat.  The^^ 
are  very  nice  served  with  a  tomato  sauce,  but  good 

without  it. 

TOMATO  CHOPS. 
Measure    three-quarters  of  a   cup  of  tomatoes 
after  the  water  has  been  drained  ofl",  put  in  a  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire  and  stir  into  it  a  cupful  of  mashed 

50 


potatoes,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  half  a  cup  of  grated  bread  crumbs. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  add  one  egg  beaten  light.  Re- 
move from  the  fire,  turn  into  a  deep  plate,  let  it  get 
cold,  then  form  in  the  shape  of  chops,  dip  in  egg  and 
roll  in  dried  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  a  nice 
brown  in  boiling  fat.  Arrange  on  a  platter  and 
serve  with  tomato  sauce,  or  place  around  a  dish  of 
stewed  tomatoes. 

SAVORY  FRIED  BREAD. 
Cut  slices  of  stale  home-made  bread  about  half 
an  inch  thick,  shcipe  them  like  chops,  soak  the  slices 
in  a  rich,  well  seasoned  vegetable  stock  until  nearlj'- 
saturated  with  it— don't  allow  them  to  become  too 
soft— then  dip  in  beaten  egg  mixed  with  a  little  milk 
and  fry  in  butter  in  a  spider  until  a  nice  brown.  Serve 
with  tomato    sauce,   or    around  a  dish  of  stewed 

tomatoes. 

MOCK  FISH  CHOPS. 

Pare  three  good  sized  potatoes,  cut  fine  and 
throw  them  into  cold  water  to  prevent  them  from 
turning  dark.  When  all  are  cut  drain  them  from  the 
water  and  chop  verj^ fine— there  must  be  two  cupfuls. 
Have  a  cup  of  boiling  milk  in  a  saucepan  and  put  the 
potatoes  into  it,  cook  until  tender,  but  not  soft,  and 
be  careful  not  to  let  them  burn ;  when  done  add  two 
generous  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls  of  French  carrots,  previously 
cooked  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  and  chopped 
very  fine,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  green  pepper, 
one  of  parsley,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  grated 
onion,  a  heaping  saltspoonful  of  powdered  mace,  a 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Measure 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  tomatoes— after  all  the  water 
has  been  pressed  from  them — chop  fine  and  add  to  it 
one  whole  egg  and  one  egg  yolk  beaten  light,  stir 


this  into  the  potato  mixture  while  on  the  stove, 
remove  at  once  from  the  fire,  add  two  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cracker  crumbs  rolled  fine,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  fine  Madeira  or  sherr^^  Turnout  to 
cool  and  then  form  into  chops,  roll  in  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs  and  fr^'-  in  boiling  fat.    Serve  with  cucumber 

salad. 

FRICASSEE  OF  SPAGHETTINA. 

Take  a  cupful  of  spaghettina,  broken  into  small 
pieces,  put  in  boiling  salted  water  and  cook  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Drain  well,  have  a  cupful  of 
cream  sauce  and  stir  the  cooked  spaghettina  into  it, 
let  it  come  to  a  boil,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  add  the  well  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  stir  well, 
remove  at  once,  and  turn  into  a  hot  vegetable  dish 
and  serve. 

MUSHROOMS  EN  COQUILLE. 

Wash  half  a  pound  of  nice,  fresh  mushrooms,  peel 
them  and  cut  off  the  stems,  cut  the  flaps  into  dice, 
and  put  the  skins  and  stems  in  a  saucepan  with  a 
cup  of  water,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  While  these 
are  cooking  put  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  in 
a  spider,  when  hot  add  the  mushroom  dice  and  let 
them  cook  until  tender,  then  add  a  dessertspoonful 
of  flour,  and  when  it  is  cooked  add  the  water  the 
stems  were  boiled  in,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
If  the  sauce  is  too  thick  add  a  little  more  water.  Stir 
in  at  the  last  a  teaspoonful  of  finely  minced  parsley, 
a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  and  the  well-beaten  yolk 
of  one  egg,  stir  well,  remove  from  the  fire,  fill  the 
shells,  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  the  tops  and  a 
little  melted  butter,  put  in  the  oven  for  an  instant  to 
brown. 

RAGOUT  OF  EGG  PLANT. 

Boil  a  small  egg  plant  until  tender.  Peel  it  thinly 
and  set  aside  to  get  cold.     Cut  in  slices  an  inch  thick 


and  cover  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish  with  them. 
Melt  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  stir  into  it  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
fresh  mushrooms,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  parsley, 
a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  onion,  all  chopped  very  fine, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  the  egg 
plant.  When  it  is  time  to  put  it  in  the  oven  sprinkle 
with  Parmesan  cheese  and  fine  breadcrumbs  and  dot 
with  small  lumps  of  butter,  and  bake  until  brown  in 
a  quick  oven.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  baked 
wath  the  following  sauce  in  a  sauce  boat. 

Sauce. — Boil  the  skins  and  stems  of  the  mush- 
rooms in  a  cup  of  water;  while  they  are  cooking, 
broAvn  together  in  a  spider  a  slightly  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  slightly  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  and  a  small  slice  of  onion  cut  very  fine. 
Strain  the  mushroom  skins  and  stems  and  add  the 
water  they  were  cooked  in  to  the  browned  butter 
and  flour,  and  w^hen  the  sauce  is  thick  and  smooth 
turn  it  into  a  saucepan  and  add  to  it  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful of  mushrooms,  one  small  cucumber  pickle 
and  two  large  olives,  all  chopped  very  fine.  Let  all 
simmer  together  for  a  few  minutes,  season  to  taste 
with  salt  and  pepper.  If  the  sauce  is  too  thick  add  a 
little  water.     It  should  be  like  thick  cream. 

PATTIES  OF  PUFF  PASTE. 

Roll  out  some  puff  paste  an  inch  thick,  cut  w^ith 
a  patty-cutter  as  many  rounds  as  are  needed,  then 
with  a  smaller  cutter  stamp  each  round  about  half 
an  inch  deep.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven;  when  done  lift 
the  centers  out  carefully  w^ith  a  knife,  remove  a  little 
oi  the  inside.  When  wanted  heat  the  patty  shells  and 
fill  with  spaghettina  in  tomato  sauce,  mushrooms  or 
A'cgetables  in  a  cream  or  savor^^  sauce,  or  the  filling 
as  given  for  spinach  border  mould.     A  few  trufl[ies 


cut  fine  are  a  nice  addition  to  tomato  sauce.     Lay 
the  little  tops  on  and  serve. 

SAVORY  RICE  (a  Mexican  Dish). 
Wash  half  a  cup  of  rice,  drain  from  the  water. 
Put  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  spider, 
Tvhen  hot  add  a  small  leek  or  white  onion  and  the 
rice,  fry  until  the  rice  is  a  golden  brown — do  not  let  it 
get  too  dark.  Have  ready  a  vegetable  stock,  nearly 
fill  the  spider  and  cook  twenty  minutes  until  the  rice 
is  perfectly  dry.  Every  grain  should  stand  alone. 
Turn  out  on  a  platter  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

RAGOUT  OF  ASPARAGUS  WITH  MOCK  MEAT  BALLS. 
Scrape  and  wash  a  bunch  of  asparagus,  cut  in 
pieces  about  an  inch  long  as  far  as  the  stalks  are 
very  tender,  put  the  remainder  of  the  stalks  with  an 
onion  into  a  saucepan,  cover  w^ith  boiling  v^ater  and 
let  it  cook  until  tender — about  half  an  hour.  Then 
mash  them  in  the  water  in  which  they  w^ere  boiled 
through  a  colander.  Put  over  the  fire  again,  and 
when  it  comes  to  a  boil  throw  in  the  points  and  cook 
until  tender.  While  that  is  cooking  make  some  mock 
meat,  as  given  in  a  previous  recipe,  form  into  balls 
as  large  as  a  walnut.  Cook  them  in  salted  boiling 
"water  for  five  minutes,  drain  them  from  the  w^ater, 
also  the  asparagus  points  from  the  stock,  put  them 
together  in  a  saucepan  to  keep  hot  while  making  a 
gravy.  Melt  a  generous  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
butter  in  a  spider,  add  to  it  w^hen  it  bubbles  a  large 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir  well  until  it  be- 
comes a  dark,  rich  brown,  taking  care  that  it  does 
not  burn,  add  the  asparagus  stock,  season  wnth  salt 
and  pepper — this  gravy  should  be  like  thick  cream- 
turn  it  over  the  asparagus  and  meat  balls,  stir  in  a 
good  half  tablespoonful  of  butter,  let  it  come  to  a 
boil  and  serve  on  a  platter.    Garnish  with  parsley. 


CURRIED  RICE  CROQUETTES. 
Put  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk  in  a  saucepan 
with  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  let  it  come  to  a  boil, 
and  stir  into  it  one  large  cup  and  a  half  of  rice  that 
has  been  boiled  in  salted  water  twenty  minutes.  Add 
a  slightly  heaping  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder,  a  few 
drops  of  onion  juice  and  salt  to  taste.  When  it  comes 
to  a  boil  add  a  beaten  egg  to  it,  stir  a  minute  and 
remove  from  the  fire.  Turn  it  out,  let  it  cool,  and 
then  form  into  cylinders  and  fry  as  usual. 

MOCK  FISH  CROQUETTES. 
Slice  three  medium  sized  potatoes,  boil  until  ten- 
der, but  not  soft,  chop  very  fine  an  even  teaspoonful 
of  onion  with  three  zepherettes  or  small  square 
crackers,  then  add  the  hot  potatoes  and  chop  all 
together,  season  with  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  a 
saltspoonful  of  mace,  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Make 
a  sauce  w^ith  a  large  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour  rubbed  well  together 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  when  smooth  add  three- 
quarters  of  a  cup  of  rich  hot  milk,  when  it  boils  add 
the  potato  mixture,  let  it  get  thoroughly  hot  and 
stir  into  it  a  well-beaten  egg,  remove  from  the  fire, 
turn  it  out  to  get  cool.  Form  into  cylinders,  dip  in 
egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  boiling  fat,  and  serve 
with  either  Hollandaise  or  tartar  sauce. 

WALNUT  CROQUETTES. 
Put  half  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs  and  a  gill  of  milk 
in  a  double  boiler,  place  over  the  fire  and  stir  until 
thick  and  smooth,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  three-quarters 
of  a  cup  of  chopped  nuts  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
sherry.  When  the  mixture  is  hot  stir  into  it  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  remove  from  the  fire 
at  once.  Set  the  mixture  av^ay  to  get  cold,  then 
form  in  any  shape  preferred  for  croquettes  ;  dip  them 


in  egg  and  then  in  dried  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  fry 
in  boiling  fat  and  serve  with  a  sauce  piquante. 

RAGOUT  OF  MUSHROOMS. 

Wash  half  a  pound  of  fine,  fresh  mushrooms,  skin, 
stem  and  cut  them  into  dice.  Put  the  stems  and 
skins  in  water  to  cover  and  stew  them  for  twenty 
minutes;  strain  and  put  the  mushrooms  into  this 
broth  with  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a 
teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  onion,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  cook  until  tender ;  when  done  add  two 
well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  stir  briskly  and  remove  at 
once  from  the  fire,  turn  out  on  a  platter,  sprinkle 
with  a  little  very  finely  minced  parsley  and  serve  very 
hot. 

MOCK  CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

Tw^o  cups  of  rye  bread — home-made  is  the  best — 
chopped  fine,  one  cup  of  chopped  English  walnuts. 
Mix  together  and  chop  again  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  an  even  tablespoonful  of  grated  onion,  a 
scant  teaspoonful  of  ground  mace.  Melt  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  with  half  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  add  gradually  to  it  a  cup- 
ful of  rich  milk ;  when  this  comes  to  a  boil  add  the 
other  ingredients,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  then  stir 
in  two  well-beaten  eggs,  remove  from  the  fire  and 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice;  turn  out  on  a 
platter  to  cool,  form  into  cylinders,  dip  in  egg  and 
bread  crumbs,  as  usual,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat. 


Vegetables. 


Vegetables  should  be  cooked  in  as  little  water  as  possible ;  the 
better  way  is  to  steam  them.  So  much  of  the  valuable  salts  are 
washed  out  by  boiling  in  too  much  water. 

All  vegetables  left  over  can  be  warmed  again,  either  in  a  cream 
sauce,  or  put  in  a  double  boiler  and  steamed,  adding  a  little  more 
butter. 

When  pepper  is  used,  it  should  alwa\-s  be  white  pepper,  espe- 
cially in  white  sauces  and  soups. 

Never  salt  vegetables  until  they  are  nearly  cooked  ;  it  hardens 
them. 

The  water  vegetables  are  boiled  in  may  be  utilized  in  making 
sauces  and  soups  ;  the  best  of  the  vegetables  goes  into  it. 

The  water  Jerusalem  artichokes  are  boiled  in  becomes  quite 
a  thick  jelly  when  cold,  and  makes  an  excellent  foundation  for 
sauces. 

TO  BOIL  POTATOES. 

Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size,  wash  and  pare 
thinly,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  half  an 
hour ;  when  nearly  done  add  salt.  As  soon  as  done 
drain  from  the  water  and  set  the  saucepan  -where  the 
potatoes  can  steam  for  a  few  minutes.  They  should 
be  served  immediately,  and  never  allowed  to  remain 
in  the  water  a  moment  after  they  are  cooked.  Pota- 
toes are  much  better  steamed  with  their  skins  on 
than  boiled,  as  they  then  retain  all  the  potashes. 
When  they  are  old  they  should  be  washed,  pared  and 
covered  with  cold  water,  and  allowed  to  stand  for 
several  hours  before  either  boiling  or  frying. 

POTATOES  BAKED. 
Select  them  of  uniform  size,  wash  and  scrub  well, 
cut  a  thin  slice  from  each  end  to  prevent  their  being 
soggy-    They  require  nearly  an  hour  to  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 


TO  MASH  POTATOES. 
Boil  the  potatoes  carefully,  drain  from  the  water, 
mash  fine,  and  to  four  good-sized  potatoes  add  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  or 
two  of  cream  or  rich  milk  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Serve  at  once.  They  must  be  freshly  mashed 
and  A^ery  hot  to  be  eatable.  The  mashed  potatoes 
ma^'be  squeezed  through  a  vegetable  rifcr,  when  they 
are  called  Potatoes  a  la  Neige. 

NEW  POTATOES  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Select  rather  small  potatoes  of  uniform  size  and 
boil.  When  done  drain  off  the  water,  set  them  back 
on  the  stove  to  keep  hot  while  making  a  cream  sauce, 
then  put  them  carefully  in  a  vegetable  dish,  pour  the 
sauce  over  them  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  finely 
minced  parsley. 

BROILED  POTATOES. 

Take  some  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  cut  them  in 
rather  thick  slices  lengthwise,  dust  with  white  pepper 
and  salt,  dip  each  slice  in  melted  butter,  broil  over  a 
clear  fire  until  a  nice  bro\vn.  Serve  with  melted  but- 
ter and  finely  minced  parsley  poured  over  them. 

POTATOES  A  LA  CREME  AU  GRATIN. 

Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes,  put  them  in  a  baking 
dish,  pour  over  them  a  cupful  of  white  sauce  nicely 
seasoned,  sprinkle  with  a  tablespoonful  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  or  Edam  cheese  grated,  one  table- 
spoonful of  bread  crumbs,  and  dot  all  over  with  tiny 
bits  of  butter.  Put  in  a  quick  oven  for  a  few  minutes 
to  brown.  Do  not  leave  it  in  too  long,  or  it  will  be- 
come dry. 

STUFFED  POTATOES. 

Bake  some  medium-sized  potatoes ;  when  done 
cut  in  half  lengthwise,  scoop  out  the  inside,  taking 

5S 


care  not  to  break  the  skin.  Mash  the  potato  smooth 
and  fine  with  butter  and  a  httle  milk,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  heat  thoroughly,  fill  the 
skins,  brush  the  tops  over  with  melted  butter,  brown 
in  the  oven  and  serve. 

POTATO  FRICASSEE. 
Put  in  a  spider  a  generous  tablespoonfiil  of  butter 
and  a  cup  of  milk,  when  hot  add  some  cold  potatoes 
cut  in  dice,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  fe-w  drops  of 
onion  juice.  Let  them  get  thoroughly  hot,  then  add 
the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  stir  constantly  until 
thick.  Great  care  must  be  taken  not  to  let  it  cook 
too  long,  or  the  sauce  will  curdle.  Pour  into  a  vege- 
table dish,  sprinkle  a  little  fineh'  minced  parsley  over 
the  top  and  serve. 

POTATOES  A  LA  DUCHESSE. 
Take  cold  mashed  potatoes  that  are  nicely  sea- 
soned with  salt  and  pepper,  form  into  little  round 
cakes,  put  them  on  a  tin,  glaze  over  with  beaten  egg 
and  brown  in  the  oven.  Arrange  on  a  platter,  gar- 
nish with  parsley  and  serve. 

SARATOGA  CHIPS. 
Peel  some  medium-sized  white  potatoes,  and  slice 
them  very  thin.  It  is  better  to  have  a  potato  sheer 
for  these,  if  possible,  as  it  cuts  them  so  quickly  and 
perfectl3\  Wash  the  potatoes  in  one  or  two  waters, 
then  cover  with  fresh  water  and  lay  a  lump  of  ice  on 
the  top  of  them.  Let  them  stand  an  hour,  if  con- 
venient, drain  in  a  colander,  wipe  dry  with  a  towel, 
and  fry  in  boiling  fat — not  too  many  at  a  time  in  the 
basket  or  they  will  stick  together,  and  will  not 
brown.  Have  a  quick  fire,  and  fry  until  brown  and 
crisp,  drain  on  paper,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  serve. 


FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES. 
Peel  some  potatoes  and  cut  in  finger  lengths,  not 
too  thick,  cover  with  ice  water,  and  if  thej  are  old 
it  is  better  to  let  them  stand  two  hours.  Drain,  wipe 
dry,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  as  Saratoga  chips — not  too 
many  at  a  time.  When  they  are  a  nice  brown  lift 
the  basket  from  the  fat,  sprinkle  with  salt,  shake  the 
grease  from  them  and  remove  with  a  skimming 
spoon,  drain  on  paper  and  serve  at  once. 

POTATOES  A  LA  MAITRE  D^HOTEL. 
Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  round  slices,  not  too 
thick,  put  in  a  saucepan  with  some  melted  butter, 
pepper  and  salt.    When  they  are  hot  add  some  lemon 
juice  and  a  little  minced  parsley  and  serve. 

POTATOES  LYONNAISE. 
Fry  a  little  onion  cut  in  thin  slices  in  plenty  of 
butter ;  when  a  delicate  brown  add  some  cold  boiled 
potatoes  cut  in  slices  of  medium  thickness,  mixing 
them  with  the  onion  by  tossing  them  together  rather 
than  stirring,  as  this  breaks  them.  Cook  until  a  nice 
color,  drain  them,  put  in  a  dish  and  sprinkle  a  little 
minced  parsley  over  them. 

POTATOES  A  LA  PARISIENNE. 
Peel  and  wash  some  potatoes,  scoop  out  into 
little  balls  with  a  potato  scoop,  v^hich  is  made  for 
the  purpose.  Boil  for  five  minutes,  put  in  melted 
butter  in  a  saucepan  until  each  potato  is  well  cov- 
ered with  the  butter,  turn  them  into  a  pan,  and 
brown  in  the  oven.  Turn  out  on  a  dish  and  sprinkle 
with  minced  parsley  and  a  little  salt. 

POTATOES  CREAMED  AND  BROWNED. 
Take  a  pint  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  into  dice 
of  uniform  size.    Have  ready  a  pint  of  cream  sauce, 

60 


toss  the  potatoes  in  this,  season  with  salt  and  white 
pepper  to  taste,  put  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with 
dried  bread  crumbs  and  a  tablespoonful  of  American 
Edam  cheese.  A  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  if  liked, 
may  be  added  before  putting  the  potatoes  into  the 
dish.  Set  it  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes,  until  it  be- 
comes a  golden  brown  and  serve.  Do  not  let  it  stand 
in  the  oven  long  or  it  will  dry. 

POTATO  PUFF. 
Two  cupfuls  of  smoothly  mashed  boiled  or  baked 
potatoes,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  two 
well-beaten  whites  of  eggs,  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream 
or  rich  milk.  Stir  the  melted  butter  into  the  potato, 
then  add  the  eggs  and  cream,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  and  serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  baked. 

WHITE  POTATO  CROQUETTES. 
Boil  and  mash  very  fine  four  medium  sized  pota- 
toes. Put  half  a  cup  of  rich  milk  and  a  generous 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  over 
the  fire.  When  the  milk  comes  to  a  boil,  stir  in  the 
mashed  potatoes,  season  \vith  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  mix  thoroughly  and  add  the  white  of  an  egg 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  remove  from  the  fire,  turn  out 
on  a  plate  to  cool,  then  make  up  in  small  cylinders, 
dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  a 
delicate  brown  in  boiling  fat. 

POTATO  PAPA  (a  Mexican  Dish). 
Wash,  pare  and  boil  one  dozen  small  white  pota- 
toes, mash  while  hot  and  add  to  them  half  a  cup  of 
raisins  stoned  and  chopped  very  fine,  twenty  large 
Queen  olives  stoned  and  chopped  fine,  one  table- 
spoonful of  parsley  finely  minced,  an  even  teaspoonfiil 
of  sugar,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    Mix  all  well 


together,  form  into  an  oblong  shape,  leaving  the  top 
rough.  Brown  a  little  butter  in  a  spider,  put  the 
papa  into  it,  and  after  a  few  moments'  frying  scatter 
little  lumps  of  butter  over  the  top  and  set  in  the 
oven  to  brown.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  hard- 
boiled  eggs  cut  in  quarters  lengthwise. 

SWEET  POTATOES  FRIED  RAW. 
Peel  two  or  three  medium-sized  potatoes  and  cut 
in  slices  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  fr^^  in  boil- 
ing fat — when  they  are  a  nice  brown  they  are  done — 
drain  on  paper  for  a  moment  before  serving. 

COOKED  SWEET  POTATOES  FRIED. 

Take  several  sweet  potatoes  cut  in  slices  length- 
wise, not  too  thin.  Dip  each  slice  in  melted  butter 
and  then  in  brown  sugar,  and  fry  in  a  little  butter. 

SWEET  POTATOES  MASHED  AND  BROWNED. 

Boil  three  sweet  potatoes  of  medium  size  until 
done.  Peel  and  squeeze  through  the  patent  vegeta- 
ble strainer,  add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  enough  milk  to  make 
very  soft.  Put  in  a  baking  dish,  dot  it  over  with 
tinj'  bits  of  butter  and  bake  until  brown.  Serve  in 
the  dish  in  which  it  is  baked.  If  any  is  left  over  re- 
move the  thin  brown  skin,  make  the  potato  into 
small,  flat  cakes  and  brown  on  both  sides  in  a  little 
butter  in  a  spider. 

SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

Three  medium-sized  potatoes  baked  and  mashed 
very  fine  and  beaten  to  a  cream  with  one  generous 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 
one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
of  lemon  juice,  a  saltspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  one  egg 
yolk  beaten  very  light,  and  add  at  the  last  the  white 
of  egg  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.    Form  into  cones  or 


cylinders,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fry 
in  boiling  fat.  Drain  on  kitchen  paper,  sift  a  little 
sugar  over  them  and  serve  at  once. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS. 

Pick  oif  any  leaves  that  may  be  discolored  and 
wash  well  a  quart  of  Brussels  sprouts,  put  into  a 
saucepan  with  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  and  a 
saltspoonful  of  soda.  Boil  rapidly  until  tender- 
about  half  an  hour— just  before  they  are  done  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt.  Drain  them  in  a  colander,  and 
if  it  is  not  time  to  serve  them  stand  the  colander  over 
steam  to  keep  them  hot.  Do  not  let  them  remain  in 
the  water.  When  ready  to  serve  put  the  sprouts  in 
a  vegetable  dish  and  pour  over  them  a  pint  of  rich 
cream  sauce. 

OKRA  AND  TOMATOES. 

A  quart  of  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes — if  fresh, 
skin  in  the  usual  way— cut  them  in  quarters  and  put 
over  the  fire,  let  them  boil  until  a  great  deal  of  the 
water  has  evaporated,  then  add  a  pint  of  fresh  okra, 
cut  in  slices,  cook  until  tender,  season  with  a  gener- 
ous heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste. 

BEETS. 

Wash  the  beets  carefully  to  avoid  breaking  the 
skin,  and  do  not  cut  off  the  fine  roots,  as  this  will 
bleed  and  spoil  them.  Put  on  in  boiling  water  and 
cook  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  three  hours.  Test 
with  a  wooden  skewer.  Cut  in  slices  or  dice  and 
serve  with  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Winter 
beets  should  be  soaked  over  night. 

PUREE  OF  PEAS. 
When  peas  are  old  this  is  a  very  nice  way  to  use 
them.      Put  a  quart  of  shelled  peas  over  the  fire  in 
sufficient  boiling  water  to  cook  them.     Boil  until 

63 


tender,  drain  from  the  water,  press  through  a  puree 
sieve,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a 
good  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  if  too  dry 
a  little  milk  or  cream  may  be  used. 

PUREE  OF  LIMA  BEANS 
may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

PUREE  OF  CUCUMBERS. 
Peel  and  slice  the  cucumbers  and  put  them  over 
the  fire  in  as  little  boiling  water  as  will  cook  them ; 
when  tender  drain  from  the  water,  press  through  a 
puree  sieve,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS. 
Peel  two  large,  fine  cucumbers,  cut  in  half  length- 
wise, take  out  the  seeds.  Scrape  out  carefully  the 
soft  part — with  a  small  spoon— into  a  saucepan. 
Peel  and  core  a  tart  apple,  chop  fine  Avith  a  small 
pickled  gherkin,  take  from  this  a  good  tablespoonful 
for  the  sauce  and  put  one  side,  then  add  the  rest  to 
the  soft  part  of  the  cucumbers  in  the  saucepan.  Let 
it  simmer  until  tender,  then  add  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  a  few  drops  of  onion 
juice,  or  the  spoon  used  for  stirring  the  mixture  may 
be  rubbed  with  garlic,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
bread  crumbs,  one  egg  beaten,  stir  all  together,  and 
remove  at  once  from  the  fire.  Put  the  cucumbers  in 
a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook 
gently  until  tender — about  ten  or  fifteen  minutes; 
when  nearly  done  add  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  drain 
from  the  water,  when  cool  enough  stuff  them  with 
the  dressing  already  prepared  and  press  into  shape, 
brush  with  egg,  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  the  top 
and  a  few  tinA'^  lumps  of  butter,  place  carefully  in  a 
pan  and  bake  a  delicate  brown. 


For  the  Sauce,  take  the  tablespoonful  of  apple 
and  pickle  reserved  from  the  stuffing,  and  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  capers,  chop  all  together  as  fine  as  possi- 
ble, make  a  cream  sauce  and  add  this  mixture  to  it 
on  the  fire  and  heat  thoroughly.  Place  the  cucum- 
bers carefully  on  a  platter  and  pour  the  sauce  around 
them. 

CUCUMBERS  STUFFED  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 
Peel  two  large,  firm  cucumbers,  and  cut  in  half 
lengthwise ;  take  out  the  seeds.  Take  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  fresh  mushrooms,  skin  and  stem  them. 
Chop  the  mushroom  flaps  very  fine,  put  them  in  a 
spider  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and 
a  very  little  water,  cover  and  cook  until  tender. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  stir  in  four  heaping  tablespoon- 
fills  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg. 
Stuif  the  cucumbers  with  this  dressing,  put  the  halves 
together,  fasten  with  wooden  toothpicks  or  tie  with 
string.  Place  in  a  small  dish  that  will  fit  in  the 
steamer,  cover  closely,  and  steam  until  tender— about 
three-quarters  of  an  hour— and  serve  with  a  brown 
sauce  made  as  follows : 

The  Sauce.— Put  on  the  skins  and  stems  of  the 
mushrooms  in  boiling  water.  Fry  a  few  slices  each 
of  carrot,  celery  top,  green  pepper,  onion  and  tur- 
nip in  butter,  strain  the  water  from  the  mush- 
room stems  into  this  and  stew  until  all  are  tender, 
strain,  add  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
enough  flour  to  thicken  the  sauce,  and  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  Place  the  cucumbers  in  a  shallow  veg- 
etable dish,  remove  the  strings  and  pour  the  sauce 
around  them. 

ESCALLOPED  EGG  PLANT. 

Boil  a  small  egg  plant,  cut  it  in  half,  take  out  the 
pulp,  throwing  away  the  seeds  and  skin,  chop  the 


pulp  fine  and  mix  with  it  half  a  teaspoonful  of  bread 
crumbs,  one  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  finely  minced 
parsley,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a  few  drops  of 
onion  juice.  Beat  all  together,  turn  into  a  baking 
dish,  cover  the  top  with  dried  bread  crumbs  and  tinj^ 
bits  of  butter  and  bake  until  brown.  Serve  in  the 
dish  in  which  it  is  baked.  If  any  is  left  over,  cut  in 
slices  half  an  inch  thick  and  fry  in  butter  for  luncheon. 

STUFFED  EGG  PLANT. 

Take  half  a  large  egg  plant,  boil  gently  until 
tender,  remove  from  the  fire,  take  out  the  pulp  care- 
fully so  as  not  to  break  the  shell,  leaving  it  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Peel  and  stem  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms,  chop  very  fine,  reserve 
a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  this  for  the  sauce,  then 
add  the  pulp  of  the  egg  plant  to  the  mushrooms  in 
the  chopping  bowl,  and  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
currants,  v^ashed  and  picked  over,  one  even  tea- 
spoonful of  grated  onion,  one  even  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  green  pepper,  five  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  bread  crumbs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rich  cream.  Mix  all 
well  together,  fill  the  shell  with  this  mixture,  press 
it  into  shape  and  bind  carefully  with  string.  Bake 
twenty  minutes,  remove  the  string  and  serve  on  a 
platter  w^ith  the  sauce  poured  around  it. 

The  Sauce.— Put  on  the  skins  and  stems  of  the 
mushrooms  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
cook  until  tender,  drain,  and  into  this  water  put  the 
tablespoonful  of  reserved  mushrooms,  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  add  a  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  flour  stirred  into  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  let  all  cook  together  until  thick, 
and  pour  around  the  egg  plant. 


GREEN  CORN  CAKES. 
One  quart  of  grated  corn,  one  teacup  of  butter 
melted,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  two  eggs,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Bake  as  griddle  cakes  and 
serve  at  once.  These  cakes  are  very  good  made  of 
canned  corn.  Pound  the  corn  in  a  mortar  and  press 
through  a  sieve. 

CORN  PUDDING. 
Four  large  ears  of  corn  grated,  or  a  can  of  com 
prepared  as  for  corn  cakes,  one  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  flour,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sugar,  one  whole  egg  and  one  yolk.  Melt  the 
butter  and  stir  into  the  corn,  beat  the  eggs  and  add 
with  one  pint  of  milk,  the  sugar  and  flour,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Bake  in  a  shallow  dish  in  a 
moderate  oven  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour. 
If  it  bakes  too  long,  it  becomes  watery. 

MOCK  OYSTERS  OF  GREEN  CORN. 
A  pint  of  grated  corn,  a  cup  of  flour,  one  egg,  two 
ounces  of  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  well  and  drop  from  a 
spoon  in  oblong  cakes— to  look  as  much  like  oysters 
as  possible— into  hot  butter,  fry  brown  on  both  sides. 
Serve  on  a  platter  and  garnish  with  parsley.  These 
may  also  be  made  of  canned  corn  by  pressing  it 
through  a  colander  with  a  potato  masher  to  sepa- 
rate the  hulls  from  it. 

CORN  BOILED  ON  THE  COB. 
Husk  the  corn  and  remove  the  silk,  put  in  a 
kettle,  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  If  the  corn  is 
young,  it  will  cook  in  from  five  to  ten  minutes,  as  it 
is  only  necessary  to  set  the  milk.  It  should  be  served 
at  once  in  a  folded  napkin. 


CURRY  OF  CORN. 
A  can  of  corn,  one  good  tart  cooking  apple,  one 
tomato,  a  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  green  pepper, 
a  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion,  a  teaspoonful  of  curry 
powder,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  Brazil  or  English 
walnuts,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Put  the  butter  in  a  spider,  when  it 
bubbles  add  the  apple  cut  in  dice  and  onion,  fry 
brown,  then  stir  in  the  curry  powder,  the  chopped 
pepper  and  tomato  and  nuts,  let  all  simmer  together 
for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  the  com,  and  cook  gently 
for  tw^enty  minutes.  If  it  is  too  thick  a  little  water 
must  be  added.  Serve  in  a  shallow  vegetable  dish  or 
on  a  platter.  Fresh  corn  may  be  used.  Boil  and 
then  cut  from  the  cob,  cook  the  cobs  in  the  water  the 
corn  was  boiled  in  long  enough  to  extract  all  the 
good  from  them,  and  use  this  broth  for  the  curry. 

CROQUETTES  OF  SAI^IFY  AND  CELERIAC. 
Two  roots  of  salsify  and  one  large  celeriac. 
Wash  and  scrape  them  w^ell.  Cut  in  pieces  and  cover 
with  vinegar  and  water  and  let  them  stand  one 
hour — this  will  prevent  them  from  turning  dark. 
Pour  off  the  vinegar  and  water  and  nearly  cover 
them  with  boiling  water,  cook  until  very  tender, 
mash  fine  and  smooth,  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  put  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire,  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and  just  before  removing 
from  the  fire  add  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  and  one 
egg,  stir  well,  turn  out  into  a  bowl  and  set  aside  to 
cool.  When  cold  make  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg 
and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  a  basket  in  boiling 

oil. 

INDIAN  CURRY  OF  VEGETABLES. 
Equal  quantities  of  cauliflower  and  potatoes,  raw. 
The  cauliflower  cut  into  flowerettes  and  the  potatoes 


into  dice.  Put  them  into  a  spider  with  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  rounded  teaspoonful  of  curry 
powder,  and  let  them  simmer  for  a  few  minutes  ^th- 
out  taking  color.  Then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
tomatoes,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion  and 
one  of  chopped  green  pepper,  fill  up  the  spider  with 
boiling  \v^ater,  and  set  it  back  on  the  stove  v^^here  it 
will  stew  gently  until  the  vegetables  are  tender  and 
the  water  has  been  reduced  to  one- third  the  quantity. 
It  should  be  as  thick  as  ordinary  gravy ;  if  not,  add 
a  scant  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Just  before  it  is  done 
stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Turn  it 
into  a  shallow  vegetable  dish  and  serve  very  hot. 
The  spider  should  be  kept  covered  while  the  curry  is 
cooking.  It  is  very  good  v^ithout  the  green  pepper. 
This  may  be  warmed  over,  and  is  better  the  second 
day  than  the  first. 

KOHLRABI. 
Peel  them,  cut  in  slices  and  pour  on  just  enough 
boiling  water  to  cook  them.  Cook  until  tender. 
When  nearly  done  add  salt.  Make  a  cream  sauce, 
season  -with  white  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg,  if  liked,  toss  them  in  this  sauce,  let  it  boil 
up  once  and  serve  very  hot. 

MARROWFAT  BEANS  BAKED. 
Pick  over  carefulh^  and  wash  one  quart  of  beans, 
soak  in  water  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain, 
add  fresh  cold  water  and  bring  to  a  boil,  drain  again, 
and  turn  them  into  a  four-quart  stone  jar,  put  in  a 
generous  cup  of  butter,  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of 
Porto  Rico  molasses,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  less 
than  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  fill  the  jar  with 
boiling  water.  Put  in  the  oven,  covering  the  jar 
with  a  tin  cover.  It  must  be  cooked  in  a  slow  oven 
eight  or  nine  hours — the  water  ought  to  last  until 


the  beans  are  perfectly  cooked,  and  when  done  a 
good  gravy  left,  about  a  third  of  the  depth  of  the 
beans  in  the  jar.  Beans  cooked  in  this  -way  are  very 
nutritious  and  easily  digested.  Keep  them  covered 
for  two  or  three  hours  while  cooking.  Serve  vv^ith 
Chili  sauce. 

BAYO  OR  MEXICAN  BEANS.-N0.  U 
Put  one  cup  of  Bayo  or  Mexican  red  beans  to 
soak  over  night,  in  the  morning  drain  off  the  water 
and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  plenty  of  fresh 
w^ater,  let  them  cook  for  two  hours,  drain  again,  and 
add  to  them  three  fresh  tomatoes,  skinned  and  cut 
small,  or  a  cup  of  canned  tomatoes,  and  half  an 
onion  cut  as  small  as  the  beans,  then  cover  with 
boiling  water  and  cook  for  one  hour.  Then  stir  in  a 
very  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste. 

MEXICAN  BEANS.-N0.  2. 
Soak  over  night  a  pint  of  beans  and  boil  as  in 
recipe  No.  1  until  soft.  Then  melt  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  in  a  spider ;  when  it  bubbles  put  in  a  small 
onion  chopped  very  fine,  and  fry  a  delicate  brown. 
Drain  the  beans  and  turn  them  into  the  spider,  add 
a  cup  of  boiling  water  and  stir  until  the  water  be- 
comes thick  like  cream. 

EMPARADAS  (a  Mexican  Recipe). 
Take  some  beans  cooked  as  in  Mexican  Beans 
No.  1  and  mash  them  to  a  paste.  Then  roll  out 
some  puff  paste  very  thin — about  the  sixth  of  an 
inch — cut  this  into  rounds  with  a  large  patty  cutter, 
put  a  spoonful  of  the  bean  puree  on  the  half  of  each 
round,  wet  the  edges  of  the  pastry,  cover,  press  the 
edges  together,  making  a  half  moon,  brush  them  over 
with  beaten  egg  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  or  they  ma^^ 
be  fried  in  boiling  oil  or  fat  until  a  delicate  brown. 


FRIJOLES  FRITOS. 
A  pint  of  beans  cooked  as  in  recipe  for  Bayo  or 
Mexican  Beans  No.  1.  Rub  them  smooth  in  a  mor- 
tar, put  them  into  a  spider  with  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of 
butter  and  fry  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  half  a  cup 
of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  mix  thoroughly  and  serve 

hot. 

BROILED  MUSHROOMS. 

Select  large  flap  mushrooms  for  broiling.  Wash, 
skin  and  stem  them,  lay  them  on  a  dish,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  a  little  olive  oil  over 
each  mushroom,  let  them  stand  one  hour.  Broil  on 
a  gridiron  over  a  nice  clear  fire.  Place  on  a  dish  and 
serve  with  the  following  sauce :  Prepare  the  stock  as 
before  by  boiling  the  stems  and  skins  in  water  and 
then  straining.  Mince  two  or  three  mushrooms  fine, 
add  to  the  stock,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  pars- 
ley, a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  a  small  lump  of  but- 
ter, cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  a  cupful  of 
cream,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  flour  wet  with  some  of 
the  cream  and  rubbed  smooth.  Let  it  all  cook  to- 
gether for  three  minutes,  then  add  the  beaten  yolk  of 
an  egg,  stir  well,  remove  from  the  fire  at  once  and 
serve. 

MUSHROOMS  ON  TOAST. 

Half  a  pound  of  mushrooms,  wash,  stem  and 
skin  as  before.  Cut  into  dice,  put  in  a  saucepan  with 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  a  shce  of  onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  one  clove, 
tied  together  in  a  thin  muslin  bag.  Set  the  saucepan 
on  the  fire  and  stew  gently  until  nearly  dry,  then  add 
water  almost  to  cover  them,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  let  them  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Take  out 
the  bag  of  onion,  etc.,  and  thicken  with  one  egg 
yolk  well  beaten,  and  a  small  cupful  of  cream. 
Have  some  sHces  of  toast  on  a  platter,  buttered  and 


moistened  with  a  little  hot  milk,  pour  the  mush- 
rooms over  them,  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve 
hot. 

MUSHROOMS  STEWED  IN  A  CREAM  SAUCE. 
Make  a  pint  of  cream  sauce,  prepare  half  a  pound 
of  mushrooms  as  in  the  preceding  recipe,  cut  into 
dice,  and  stew  in  the  sauce  until  very  tender.  Have 
the  toast  prepared  as  above  and  pour  the  mush- 
rooms over  it.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  at 
once.  They  may  be  served  in  pastry  shells  as  an 
entree,  if  preferred. 

TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  MUSHROOMS —No.  U 
Wash,  skin  and  stem  half  a  pound  of  mushrooms, 
chop  very  fine,  add  two  even  teaspoonfuls  of  finely 
minced  parsley-,  a  few  dropsof  lemon  juice,  the  same  of 
onion  juice,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Melt  two  ' 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  cook  all 
together  in  this  until  the  mushrooms  are  tender,  then 
add  a  cupful  of  stale  bread  crumbs  and  one  egg  yolk, 
stir  well  and  remove  from  the  fire.  Have  half  a 
dozen  perfectly  ripe  tomatoes,  v/ashed  and  wiped, 
cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each,  take  out  the  core  and 
seeds,  and  fill  with  the  mushroom  stuffing.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  until  done.  The  skins  should  be 
removed  in  the  usual  W' aj^  before  stuffing. 

TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  MUSHROOMS.— No.  2. 
Wash  and  wipe  the  tomatoes,  but  do  not  remove 
the  skins.  Cut  in  half,  take  out  the  core  and  a  few 
of  the  seeds.  Fill  with  the  same  forcemeat  as  in  the 
preceding  recipe  and  cover  the  top  wath  it,  place  in  a 
pan  wdth  a  little  water  to  keep  from  burning,  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  soft,  remove  carefully  from 
the  pan,  place  on  a  platter,  garnish  with  parsley  and 


ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

Strain  from  a  quart  can  of  tomatoes  one  cupful 
of  water.  Put  a  layer  of  the  tomatoes  in  a  baking 
dish,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sugar, 
cover  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  dot  freely  with 
bits  of  butter,  then  put  another  layer  of  tomatoes, 
and  lastly  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  with  bits  of  but- 
ter, and  sprinkle  with  a  dessertspoonful  of  sugar. 
Bake  forty-five  minutes,  and  serve  in  the  dish  in  which 
it  is  baked. 

TOMATOES  WITH  EGG. 

Drain  the  \vater  froin  a  can  of  tomatoes,  press 
them  through  a  colander,  put  into  a  saucepan  over  the 
fire,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  sugar,  if 
acid,  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Let  them  cook 
a  little,  and  just  before  serving  add  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  stir  well  until  it  thickens,  and 
remove  immediateh^  from  the  fire  or  it  ^vill  curdle. 

FRENCH  CARROTS  IN  BROWN  SAUCE. 
Select  the  smallest  French  carrots,  wash  and 
scrape  them  and  boil  until  tender  in  as  little  water 
as  possible.  When  done  drain  from  the  water,  using  it 
to  make  the  sauce.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into 
a  spider,  when  hot  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
stir  until  a  dark  brown,  add  gradually  the  water  the 
carrots  were  boiled  in,  season  \vith  salt  and  pepper, 
simmer  until  thick  and  smooth,  add  the  carrots,  and 
when  hot  serve. 

FRENCH  CARROTS  AND  PEAS. 
Take  a  pint  of  young  peas  and  two  bunches  of 
French  carrots,  cut  in  slices  or  fancy  shapes  (stars  or 
clover  leaves),  cook  each  vegetable  bj^  itself  in  as  little 
water  as  will  cook  them.  When  they  are  both  tender 
put  them  together  into  a  saucepan,  add  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  half  a  tablespoonful  of 


flour  rubbed  together,  and  if  there  is  not  enough 
water  left,  add  enough  to  make  a  graYj.  Canned 
instead  of  fresh  peas  may  be  used ;  drain  the  water 
from  the  peas  and  stew  the  carrots  in  it,  and  follow 
the  recipe  as  above. 

SPINACH  PUDDING. 
Make  a  sauce  of  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  butter, 
one  ounce  of  flour,  a  scant  half  cup  of  rich  milk,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  grating  of  nutmeg,  if  liked, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  When  this  comes  to  a 
boil,  add  an  even  cupful  of  spinach  that  has  been 
cooked  and  finely  chopped,  and  from  which  the  water 
has  been  Avell  pressed  out.  Remove  from  the  stove, 
and  stir  into  it  two  beaten  eggs.  Grease  a  mould, 
sprinkle  it  with  dried  and  sifted  bread  crumbs,  turn 
the  pudding  into  this,  set  the  mould  in  a  pan  of  hot 
Avater,  put  in  the  oven,  cover  it  to  prevent  browming 
and  bake  nearly  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Turn 
out  on  a  platter,  have  ready  a  cream  sauce  to  pour 
around  the  pudding,  garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs, 
cut  in  quarters  lengthwise,  and  parsley.  If  any  is 
left  over,  cut  in  slices,  and  \varm  over  in  a  cream 
sauce  and  serve  for  luncheon.     It  will  keep  for  days. 

SPINACH  BALLS. 
Put  a  slighth'  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
a  tablespoonful  of  cream,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
sugar  into  a  saucepan  on  the  stove,  mix  well,  and 
when  it  boils  add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour — 
as  much  as  will  stay  on  the  spoon — let  it  come  to  a 
boil,  and  then  add  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  cooked 
and  finely  chopped  spinach,  beat  well  and  remove 
from  the  fire.  When  cold  add  two  eggs,  one  at  a 
time,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  half  a 
saltspoonful  of  powdered  mace.  Have  a  saucepan 
of  boiling  water,  slightly  salted,  on  the  stove ;  dip  a 


tablespoon  in  cold  water,  and  then  take  up  enough 
of  the  spinach  mixture  to  make  an  oblong  cake,  in 
shape  like  an  egg  cut  in  half  lengthwise,  then  dip  the 
spoon  in  the  boiling  water  and  let  the  cake  float  ofl". 
Use  all  the  mixture  in  this  yvay.  The  balls  will  cook 
in  four  or  five  minutes,  and  they  must  not  boil  too 
fast  or  they  will  break.  Let  them  drain  in  a  colander 
while  making  a  cream  sauce,  and  when  the  sauce  is 
made  put  the  balls  into  it  and  let  them  come  to  a 
boil,  turn  out  on  a  platter  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

TOMATOES  AND  MUSHROOMS. 

Put  on  a  pint  of  tomatoes  in  a  saucepan  and 
cook  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  until  nearly  all  the 
water  has  evaporated,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
add  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  bread  crumbs  and  half  a  pint  of  fresh 
mushrooms  chopped  fine.  Cook  until  the  mush- 
rooms are  tender.  Have  some  bread  cut  in  nice 
slices  toasted  and  slightly  moistened  ^vith  warm 
milk.  Pour  the  tomatoes  and  mushrooms  over  it 
and  serve  very  hot. 

TO  BOIL  RICE  PLAIN. 

Wash  half  a  cupful  of  rice,  drain  from  the  water, 
have  on  the  fire  a  very  large  saucepan  nearly  full  of 
salted  boiling  -water.  Turn  the  rice  into  this  and 
boil  hard  for  twenty  minutes,  pour  all  into  a  colan- 
der, drain  well,  and  put  the  rice  in  a  smaller  saucepan 
on  the  back  of  the  stove,  where  it  will  be  kept  warm, 
without  cooking,  until  all  the  moisture  has  evapo- 
rated.    Then  serve. 

CAULIFLOWER  WITH  DRAWN  BUTTER. 

Select  a  nice  white  cauliflower,  take  off  all  the 
leaves,  and  cut  enough  of  the  stem  off"  to  allow  it  to 
stand  well  in  the  dish  it  is  to  be  served  in.  Put  it  into 
a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  when  it  is 


nearly  done  add  salt,  as  cooking  it  long  with  salt 
turns  it  brown.  The  usual  time  to  cook  a  cauli- 
flower is  about  twenty  minutes.  Try  it  with  a  fork, 
and  if  it  is  tender  remove  carefully  from  the  Avater, 
let  it  drain  in  a  colander  while  preparing  a  drawn 
butter.  Then  put  into  a  hot  vegetable  dish,  pour  the 
sauce  over  and  serve. 

For  the  Drawn  Butter. — Melt  a  large  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  stir  into  it  a  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  let  them  cook  together  without 
browning  and  add  by  degrees  a  cup  of  hot  milk. 

ESCALLOPED  CAULIFLOWER. 
Cut  a  cauliflower  into  flowerettes,  cover  with 
boiling  water  into  a  saucepan  and  cook  until  tender, 
let  them  drain  in  a  colander  w^hile  the  sauce  is  being 
prepared.  Make  the  usual  cream  sauce,  enough  to 
cover  the  cauliflower.  When  the  sauce  is  done  add 
two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  American  Edam  or 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  put  the  flowerettes  into  a 
baking  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  them,  sprinkle  the 
top  with  a  little  of  the  cheese,  and  stand  the  dish  in 
the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  brown. 

ESCALLOPED  SPAGHETTINA. 
Put  a  good  half  cupful  of  spaghettina,  broken  in 
bits,  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  with  an  even 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  boil  three-c|uarters  of  an  hour, 
turn  into  a  colander  and  let  it  drain  while  the  sauce 
is  being  made.  Prepare  it  exactly  as  for  escalloped 
cauliflower  and  finish  in  the  same  wa3^ 

CHESTNUT  PUREE. 
Shell  some  large  imported  chestnuts  and  put  over 
the  fire  in  boiling  water,  let  them  cook  for  a  few  min- 
utes, rub  the  skins  off,  and  cover  again  with  fresh 
boiling  water,  boil  until  tender.  Press  through  a 
sieve,  and  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 


PUREE  OF  DRIED  WHITE  BEANS. 
Pick  over  and  wash  a  pint  of  beans  and  soak 
over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the  water,  put 
the  beans  into  a  saucepan  with  cokl  water  to  cover 
them,  and  cook  until  tender — a  Httle  more  than  an 
hour.  Press  through  a  sieve,  add  a  generous  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  put  into 
a  saucepan,  make  very  hot  and  serve. 

SQUASH  PUDDING. 
A  large  heaping  cup  of  Hubbard  squash,  meas- 
ured after  it  is  baked  and  mashed  smooth,  a  generous 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  melted  and  stirred 
into  the  squash,  a  heaping  tcaspoonful  of  flour  mixed 
with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  one  egg  beaten 
light,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  well  and  turn 
into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  about  twenty 
minutes.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  baked.  If 
any  is  left  over,  make  it  up  into  little  round  cakes 
and  brown  in  butter  for  luncheon. 

SQUASH  FRITTERS. 

A  heaping  cupful  of  Hubbard  squash  baked  and 
mashed,  stir  into  it  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  cup  of  milk, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  one  egg  beaten  light. 
Mix  well  and  bake  or  fry  as  griddle  cakes. 
SUMMER  SQUASH. 

Wash  and  peel  two  large  summer  squash,  cut  in 
small  pieces  and  remove  the  seeds,  cover  with  boiling 
water  and  cook  until  tender.  Drain  in  a  colander 
and  press  gently  as  much  of  the  water  out  as  possi- 
ble with  a  potato  masher,  then  mash  through  the 
colander  into  a  saucepan,  put  it  on  the  stove  and  let 
it  cook  until  the  squash  is  quite  dry,  taking  care  that 
it  does  not  burn.  Then  add  four  heaping  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste. 


RICE  CROQUETTES. 
Put  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire,  wdth  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  when  it  conies 
to  a  boil  add  a  cup  and  a  half  of  boiled  rice,  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon  or  nutmeg,  if  pre- 
ferred, and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  well,  let  it  come  to  a 
boil  and  add  a  beaten  egg,  remove  from  the  fire,  turn 
into  a  plate  to  get  cold,  form  into  cylinders  and  cook 
in  boiling  fat. 

FRICASSEE  OF  CELERIAC. 

Wash  and  peel  the  celery  roots,  cut  them  into 
dice  and  cook  until  tender  in  as  little  water  as  possi- 
ble, and  when  nearly  done  add  a  little  salt.  Make  a 
sauce  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  cooked  together  until  smooth  with- 
out browning.  Then  add  a  cup  of  rich  milk,  and 
when  this  boils  turn  the  celery  dice  with  the  water  in 
which  they  were  boiled  into  the  sauce,  season  to 
taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  ready  to  serve 
beat  one  egg  yolk  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  and 
stir  carefully  into  it,  remove  at  once  from  the  fire, 
pour  into  a  vegetable  dish,  sprinkle  with  a  little 
parslej'  minced  fine,  and  serve. 

YELLOW  TURNIP  RAGOUT. 
Take  one  large  yellow  turnip,  peel,  wash  and 
wipe  dry,  cut  in  oblong  pieces.  Brown  a  good  lump 
of  butter  in  a  spider,  simmer  the  turnip  slices  in  this 
until  nicely  browned,  taking  care  not  to  burn  them. 
Put  all  into  a  saucepan  with  only  water  enough  to 
cook  them  tender,  cover  tightly,  when  done,  bro\vn 
a  little  butter  and  flour  together  to  make  the  gravy 
the  proper  consistency,  season  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  serve. 


TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  CHEESE. 
Cut  six  tomatoes  in  half,  scoop  out  part  of  the 
inside  and  put  this  in  a  saucepan  and  cook  until 
nearly  all  the  water  has  been  absorbed,  then  add 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
cheese,  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  dried  bread 
crumbs,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a  few  drops  of 
onion  juice.  Sprinkle  the  tomatoes  with  salt,  pepper, 
a  little  sugar  and  grated  cheese,  then  fill  them  with 
the  dressing,  dot  them  with  tiny  bits  of  butter  and 
sift  over  them  a  few  bread  crumbs.  Melt  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter  in  a  baking  pan,  put  the  tomatoes 
in  and  bake  twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes.  Take 
them  out  carefully  when  done,  arrange  on  a  dish, 
make  a  little  gravy  in  the  pan  in  which  they  were 
baked  by  adding  a  little  more  butter,  half  a  cupful  of 
milk,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.     Serve  in  a  sauceboat. 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES. 
Wash  and  peel  a  dozen  artichokes,  selecting  them 
as  nearly  the  same  size  as  possil^le.  Cover  with  boil- 
ing water  and  cook  until  tender,  drain  at  once  and 
pour  over  them  a  cream  sauce,  sprinkle  a  little  finely 
chopped  parslcA^  over  them  and  serve. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Scrape  and  wash  as  much  asparagus  as  is  needed, 
cut  the  stalks  the  same  length,  tie  in  bunches  and  put 
over  the  fire  in  boiling  water,  and  when  nearly  done 
add  a  little  salt.  Boil  until  perfectly  tender,  drain, 
put  in  a  dish,  remove  the  strings  and  serve  very  hot 
with  sauce  Hollandaise  or  a  simple  cream  sauce. 
POINTES  D'ASPERGES. 

Cut  off  the  tender  green  tips  of  asparagus  about 
an  inch  and  a  half  long,  cover  with  boiling  water  and 


cook  until  tender.  Add  salt  just  before  they  are 
done.  Drain  and  put  the  points  into  a  saucepan  \vith 
butter,  salt  and  pepper  and  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream 
or  Hollandaise  sauce,  mix  well  and  do  not  let  it  cook 
after  the  sauce  is  added.  A  little  nutmeg  maybe 
used  if  liked.    Serve  verA' hot. 

PURPLE  CABBAGE  WITH  CHESTNUTS. 
Shred  fine  as  for  cold  slaw  half  a  purple  cabbage, 
put  half  of  this  into  a  saucepan,  dot  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  sprinkle  over  it  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  a  slightly  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  then  the  rest  of  the 
cabbage  with  the  same  quantity  of  butter,  sugar, 
etc.,  as  before,  and  pour  over  all  a  quarter  of  a  cup 
of  vinegar  and  a  cupful  of  cold  water.  Cover  tightly, 
let  it  cook  slowlj^  until  done,  put  it  where  it  will  only 
siiumer  for  two  hours.  If  not  sour  enough  add  more 
vinegar.  Be  careful  that  it  does  not  burn.  Serve  in 
a  vegetable  dish  and  garnish  with  large  Italian 
chestnuts  that  have  been  boiled  and  blanched. 

PARSNIP  CROQUETTES  WITH  WALNUTS. 
Take  two  good-sized  parsnips,  peel  and  cook 
them  until  tender  in  as  little  water  as  possible. 
When  done  press  the  water  carefully  from  them  and 
mash  them  smooth  and  fine  through  a  colander,  put 
them  back  into  the  saucepan  over  the  fire  again,  and 
add  to  them  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped 
walnut  meats,  a  good  heaping  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter and  a  tablespoonful  of  rich  cream,  stir  well 
together  and  add  at  the  last  one  egg  well  beaten. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  turn  out  on  a  plate  to  cool, 
then  form  into  cylinders,  dip  in  tgg  and  bread  crumbs 
and  fry  in  boiling  fat. 


PARSNIPS  FRIED. 
Boil  them  until  tender,  cut  them  in  slices  length- 
wise and  fry  brown  in  a  little  butter. 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS. 
Wash  and  scrape  them  and  cut  in  slices,  cover 
them  with  boiling  water,  cook  until  tender,  mash 
them  through  a  colander,  return  them  to  the  fire,  add 
to  two  large  parsnips,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  and  one  Qgg  beaten  well.  Mix 
thoroughly,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  w^hen  cool 
make  into  small  flat  cakes  and  fry  in  a  little  butter. 
Serve  hot. 

TO  COOK  STRING  BEANS. 

String  thoroughly,  cut  in  half,  then  in  half  length- 
wise, throw  into  boiHng  water  and  let  them  come  to 
a  boil.  Remove  from  the  fire,  drain,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  let  them  stand  in  this  until  it  is  time  to 
cook  them,  then  drain  again,  cover  wnth  boiling 
water  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  when  almost 
done  add  salt.  When  tender,  drain,  add  a  lump  of 
butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

SPANISH  ONIONS  STUFFED. 
Take  two  large  Spanish  onions,  wash  and  skin 
and  tie  them  to  prevent  breaking.  Put  them  into  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
cook  until  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  l^room  straw— 
from  two  to  three  hours,  according  to  size.  When 
done,  drain  and  carefully  take  out  the  centers, 
leaving  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  for  the  shell. 
Have  ready  a  stufling  made  from  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  mushrooms  prepared  as  before.  Put  these 
and  the  centers  of  the  onions  into  a  chopping  bowl 
and  chop  vei-y  fine.  Cook  them  together  until  the 
moisture  from  the  onions  has  almost  evaporated, 
then  add  a  generous  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 


a  tablespoonfiil  of  rich  cream,  and  three  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Fill  the  onion  shells  with  this  mix- 
ture, smooth  the  tops  nicely,  sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs,  brush  with  egg  and  a  little  butter.  Put  in 
the  oven  and  brown  about  ten  minutes,  and  serve 
with  the  following  sauce:  Rub  a  generous  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  flour  together.  Put  a  small  teacup  of  milk  into  a 
saucepan  on  the  fire,  when  hot  stir  in  the  butter  and 
flour  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  mushrooms  pre- 
pared as  before  and  chopped  very  fine,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Place  the  onions  on  a  plat- 
ter and  pour  the  sauce  around  them,  garnish  with 
parsley  and  serve. 

STUFFED  CELERIAC  WITH  SPANISH  SAUCE. 
Put  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  three-quarters  of 
a  cup  of  rich  milk  and  three  ounces  of  butter,  let 
them  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  three  ounces  of  dried 
and  sifted  bread  crumbs  and  an  even  tablespoonful 
of  flour.  Let  it  cook,  stirring  all  the  time  until  it  is 
a  smooth  paste  and  detaches  itself  from  the  sides  of 
the  pan,  remove  from  the  fire  and  set  it  aside  to  cool. 
When  cold  beat  three  eggs  Hght,  stir  in  a  little  at  a 
time,  beating  well  until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and 
all  the  beaten  egg  used,  then  add  a  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
walnut  meats  chopped  fine,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
rich  cream,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Take  four 
large,  fine  celeriac  roots,  clean,  scrub  and  scrape 
them.  Cut  off  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each  to  make 
a  cover,  then  with  an  apple  corer  remove  the  inside, 
takingcarenot  to  pierce  the  root,  leave  a  shell  a  quar- 
ter of  an  inch  thick.  Fill  each  with  the  dressing,  leav- 
ing fully  half  an  inch  at  the  top  for  it  to  swell.  Place 
the  cover  on  each,  tie  well  the  roots  to  prevent  break- 


ing  in  the  cooking,  stand  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
water  to  reach  not  quite  to  the  top  of  the  roots,  and 
put  in  all  the  celeriac  removed  from  the  roots,  boil 
gently  until  tender— about  an  hour — adding  boiling 
water  from  time  to  time  as  it  evaporates.  When 
they  are  tender  take  them  out  of  the  water  and  put 
them  aside,  keeping  them  hot.  Strain  the  water  they 
were  boiled  in,  form  what  is  left  from  the  stuffing 
into  small  cjdinders,  boil  five  minutes  in  the  strained 
stock,  take  them  out  and  put  with  the  roots  to  keep 
warm.  Then  take  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, an  even  tablespoonful  of  flour,  brown  them  to- 
gether in  a  spider,  add  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
of  chopped  walnuts  and  let  them  brown  a  little,  then 
stir  in  gradually  the  stock  the  roots  were  boiled  in 
and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Arrange  the  roots  in  the 
center  of  the  platter,  the  cylinders  around  them  and 
pour  the  sauce  over  all.  Garnish  with  parsley,  put- 
ting a  tiny  sprig  of  celery  leaves  in  the  top  of  each 

root. 

SPRING  CABBAGE  STEWED. 

Cut  the  cabbage  very  small,  throw  into  a  sauce- 
pan, cover  wnth  boiling  water,  when  nearly  done  add 
salt.  Cook  until  tender,  drain  well  in  a  colander. 
Make  a  rich  cream  sauce — it  must  be  quite  thick,  as 
the  cabbage  will  thin  it— add  a  saltspoonful  of  mace, 
then  the  cabbage,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  serve. 

SPRING  CABBAGE  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE. 
Boil  a  3^oung  cabbage  or  part  of  one  until  per- 
fecth^  tender,  when  done  drain  all  the  water  from  it 
in  a  colander,  place  in  a  vegetable  dish  and  pour  over 
it  a  rich  cream  sauce. 

SPRING  TURNIPS  IN  CREAM  SAUCE. 
Pare  and  cut  into  dice  some  young  turnips,  cook 
them  tender  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  salt  when 


nearh^  done.  Have  ready  a  cream  sauce,  nicely  sea< 
soned,  and  after  draining  the  turnips  put  them  into 
the  sauce,  let  them  come  to  the  boiling  point  and  re- 
move immediately  from  the  fire,  turn  them  into  the 
serving  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley 
over  the  top  and  serve.  A  tiny  grain  of  mace  added 
to  the  sauce  is  an  improvement,  but  it  must  be  used 
with  great  care. 

WHITE  BREAD  BALLS. 
Take  four  ounces  of  bread  from  which  the  crust 
has  been  removed,  cut  it  into  dice.  Put  half  a  cup  of 
milk  in  a  saucepan  with  two  ounces  of  butter  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  stir 
in  the  bread  and  continue  stirring  until  it  no  longer 
cleaves  to  the  pan,  remove  from  the  fire.  When  cool 
stir  into  it  two  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and  a  little  salt. 
Cook  in  boiling  water,  as  described  for  other  balls, 
and  serve  in  a  cream  sauce  as  a  vegetable.  (See 
spinach  balls,  page  74.) 

NOODLES. 
Beat  the  j^olks  of  two  eggs  with  a  little  salt  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  cold  water  and  stir  in  enough 
flour  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough.  Roll  out  as  thin  as 
paper  and  then  roll  it  up ;  let  it  stand  for  an  hour, 
and  then  cut  fine  with  a  sharp  knife.  These  will  keep 
any  length  of  time,  and  can  be  used  in  soups,  as  a 
vegetable  or  in  a  pudding. 

NOODLES  A  LA  FERRARL 
Prepare  the  noodles  as  above,  and  cook  in  boil- 
ing salted  water  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes. 
Drain  well.  Have  ready  a  tomato  sauce,  stir  the 
noodles  into  it,  turn  into  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  well 
with  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  brown  in  a  quick 
oven. 


GNOCCHI  A  LA  ROMAINE. 
Put  two  ounces  of  l3utter  in  a  saucepan  over  the 
fire  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  When  this 
comes  to  a  boil  stir  in  four  ounces  of  flour;  then  add 
a  cup  of  milk,  let  it  cook,  stirring  all  the  time  until 
it  no  longer  adheres  to  the  f)an,  remove  from  the  fire, 
let  it  cool  and  then  beat  in  three  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  a  saltspoonful  of  mace  and  a  dash  of  salt. 
Set  it  away  to  get  cold,  make  it  into  small  balls. 
Have  a  large  saucepan  of  boiling,  salted  water  on 
the  stove,  drop  the  balls  into  it  and  let  them  boil  five 
minutes,  take  them  out  with  a  skimmer  and  drain 
well.  Have  ready  a  cream  sauce,  put  the  balls  in 
this,  and  when  they  are  hot  turn  into  a  baking  dish, 
sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese  and  bake  until  brown 
in  a  quick  oven. 


Salads. 


MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 
One-half  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash 
of  cayenne  pepper;  then  add  two  raw  egg  yolks, 
beat  well  and  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  strong  vinegar; 
add  very  carefulh^  drop  by  drop,  a  scant  three-quar- 
ters of  a  cup  of  best  olive  oil,  and  as  it  thickens  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar.  This  recipe  never  fails,  if 
the  directions  are  carefully  followed.  The  eggs  and 
oil  should  be  kept  in  the  refrigerator  and  be  ice  cold. 
Lemon  juice  ma3^  be  used,  instead  of  vinegar,  if  pre- 
ferred. 

CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING. 

One-quarter  of  a  cup  of  strong  cider  vinegar,  one 
cup  and  a  quarter  of  w^ater,  one-half  cup  of  butter, 
one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
onetablespoonful,  slightly  heaping,  of  cornstarch,  one 
teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Put  the  vinegar  and  water 
in  a  saucepan  and  v^hen  it  boils  add  the  butter.  Beat 
the  3^olks  of  eggs  and  the  other  ingredients  together 
with  an  egg-beater,  making  it  quite  foamy  and  light; 
pour  the  boiling  vinegar  and  water  upon  this  mix- 
ture, which  -will  partially  thicken.  The  bowl  in  which 
it  is  mixed  should  be  placed  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  on 
the  stove,  beating  it  all  the  time  with  the  egg-beater. 
Just  before  it  reaches  the  boiling  point  remove  and 
turn  it  out  into  a  cold  bowl,  beating  hard  for  a  few 
minutes.  When  perfectly  cold  pour  it  into  a  glass 
jar,  fasten  down  the  top  and  keep  in  refrigerator. 

86 


FRENCH  DRESSING. 

One  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  olive  oil,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  one  of 
white  pepper,  and  a  few  drops  of  any  good  sauce. 
Lettuce  should  be  well  washed  in  very  cold  water, 
leaf  bj^  leaf,  and  drained  in  a  basket,  which  comes  for 
the  purpose,  then  placed  on  the  ice,  and  at  serving 
time  put  into  the  salad  bowl.  Lettuce  should  never 
be  cut  with  a  knife,  but  torn  with  a  fork  and  spoon, 
and  it  should  not  be  allowed  to  stand  after  the  dress- 
ing is  poured  over  it. 

TOMATO  ICE  SALAD. 

Put  a  quart  can  of  tomatoes  in  a  saucepan  over 
the  fire  with  half  an  onion,  a  slice  of  green  pepper,  it 
convenient,  three  cloves,  two  bay  leaves,  a  sprig  of 
parsley,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.  Cook  until  the  onion  is  tender — about  ten 
minutes — remove  from  the  fire,  press  through  a  sieve 
fine  enough  to  retain  the  seeds.  When  cold  freeze  as 
water-ice  and  mould — a  melon  mould  is  very  pretty 
for  it — pack  in  salt  and  ice  in  the  usual  way  ;  turn  it 
out  in  a  nest  of  crisp  young  lettuce  and  serve  with  a 
mayonnaise  dressing  in  a  sauceboat. 

*  TOMATO  JELLY. 
One  can  of  tomatoes  put  on  to  heat  in  a  granite 
or  porcelain-lined  saucepan  with  a  large  slice  of  onion, 
one  clove,  tw^o  ba}^  leaves,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
green  pepper,  salt  to  taste  and  a  little  sugar.  Soak 
half  a  box  of  gelatine  in  a  little  w^ater  for  half  an 

*\Ve  have  as  yet  in  this  country'  no  substitute  for  animal  gelatine.  I 
have  experimented  with  carrageen  or  Irish  moss  and  tlie  Sea-moss 
Farine  preparation,  and  find  them  unsatisfactory.  It  is  inipossitile 
to  make  a  clear  jelly  with  them,  and  by  soaking  in  water  to  destroy  the 
sea  flavor,  the  solidifying  property  is  lost.  In  England  they  have  a  vege- 
table gelatine  (Agar  Agar)  which  makes,  I  am  told,  a  clear,  sparkling 
jelly,  and  is  said  not  to  be  expensive.  I  trust  that  before  many  months 
it  may  be  obtainable  here.  I  have  ventured,  therefnre,  to  give  a  few 
recipes  where  gelatine  is  used,  knowing  that  there  will  be  something  to 
replace  it.  Groult's  tapioca  and  potato  flour  are  said  to  be  unadulter- 
ated, and  with  fresh  fruit  juices  make  nice  and  wholesome  desserts,  espe- 
ciallv  for  children.  These  preparations  are  made  in  France,  and  put  up 
in  half-pound  packages,  and  sold  by  all  of  our  leading  grocers. 

87 


hour,  and  after  the  tomatoes  have  simmered  fifteen 
minutes  let  them  come  to  a  boil  and  pour  over  the 
gelatine  to  dissolve  it ;  strain  through  a  very  fine 
sieve  into  a  bow^l,  let  it  get  perfectly  cold,  and  v^hen 
it  begins  to  thicken  stir  well  and  turn  into  an  earth- 
enware mould.  It  looks  prettier  in  a  round  one.  Set 
on  ice.  Serve  the  jelly  on  a  round  dish  in  a  bed  of 
fresh,  crisp  young  lettuce  leaves,  and  place  a  spoonful 
offender,  finely-cut  celery  in  each  leaf,  and  pour  may- 
onnaise around  it.  The  jelly  is  better  made  the  day 
before  it  is  needed. 

SPAGHETTINA  AND  CELERY  SALAD. 
Take  some  cold  boiled  spaghettina,  chop — not 
too  fine— and  cover  with  a  French  dressing,  and  let 
it  stand  on  the  ice  until  serving  time.  Have  an  equal 
quantity  of  fresh,  crisp  celery  cut  fine,  mix  with  the 
spaghettina,  cover  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing  and 
garnish  with  tender  lettuce  leaves. 

SALAD  OF  FAIRY  RINGS  AND  PUFF  BALL  MUSHROOMS. 
Have  both  very  fresh ;  cook  the  fairy  rings  until 
tender,  set  aside  to  get  cold,  then  put  on  the  ice. 
Take  an  equal  quantit3^  of  puff  ball  raw,  chop  fine, 
mix  with  the  rings,  turn  into  a  nest  of  tender  young 
lettuce,  cover  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing  and  serve. 

SALAD  OF  FRESH  FRUIT. 
Peel  and  cut  into  dice  enough  fruit,  peaches,  tart 
plums,  orange  and  banana  to  fill  a  cup  and  a  cupful 
of  crisp  celery  cut  fine ;  have  both  ice  cold  ;  at  serving 
time  mix  and  cover  with  a  cream  dressing  and  gar- 
nish with  celery  tops. 

*  CUCUMBER  JELLY. 
Half  a  box  of  gelatine  soaked  for  an  hour  in  half 
a  cup  of  cold  water.    Remove  the  seeds  from  a  small 

*This  jelly  may  be  colored  a  delicate  green  by  using  extract  of 
spinach  (see  recipe,  page  164).  Its  appearance  is  much  improved 
thereby. 


green  pepper,  peel  and  cut  into  slices  two  large,  fine, 
fresh  cucumbers,  or  three  small  ones  and  a  small 
white  onion.  Put  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  bay  leaf  and 
a  bouquet  of  parsley,  cover  with  boiling  water  and 
cook  until  tender ;  remove  the  parsley  and  bay  leaf, 
add  a  saltspoonful  of  sugar,  salt  to  taste — more  than 
a  teaspoonful  will  be  required — and  press  through  a 
fine  sieve.  There  should  be,  when  strained,  two  cups 
and  a  half.  Pour  it  over  the  soaked  gelatine — if  it  is 
not  hot  enough  to  dissolve  the  gelatine  place  the 
saucepan  over  the  fire  for  a  moment — then  run  it 
through  the  same  sieve  again ;  set  aside  in  a  bowl  to 
cool.  When  perfectly  cold  and  beginning  to  congeal, 
stir  it  well  and  pour  into  a  pretty,  round  mould ;  set 
it  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve.  Turn  it  out  on  a  plate 
and  arrange  fresh,  crisp,  young  lettuce  leaves  around 
it,  into  each  of  \vhich  put  a  spoonful  of  mayonnaise 
or  cream  dressing. 

WALNUT  AND  CELERY  SALAD.  y. 

,|,  Three  cupfuls  of  fresh,  crisp  celery  cut  fine  and 
two  cupfuls  of  walnuts,  carefully  shelled  that  they 
maybe  as  little  broken  as  possible.  Put  the  walnuts 
in  a  saucepan  with  a  small  onion  sliced,  a  bay  leaf,  a 
clove  and  twelve  pepper  corns,  cover  with  boiling 
v^^ater,  let  them  cook  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  re- 
move from  the  fire,  drain  and  throw  the  nuts  into 
cold  w^ater,  remove  the  skins  and  let  them  get  cold ; 
then  set  on  the  ice  until  it  is  time  to  serve.  Mix  them 
with  the  celery,  add  mayonnaise  or  cream  dressing, 
put  on  a  dish  or  in  a  salad  bowl,  garnish  with  the 
tender  green  celery  leaves  and  serve. 

PINEAPPLE  AND  CELERY  SALAD. 
Equal  parts   of  celery  and  shredded  pineapple. 
Have  the  celery  of  the  very  tenderest,  using  onlj-  the 
best  of  the  heads.    Select  a  perfectly  ripe,  fresh  pine- 
apple, pare  it,  removing  the  eyes  carefully,  and  shred 


the  fruit  with  a  silver  fork  and  cut  into  small  pieces 
with  a  silver  fruit  knife ;  put  the  celery,  cut  fine,  and 
the  shredded  pineapple,  each  by  itself  on  the  ice,  that 
they  may  be  very  cold.  When  it  is  time  to  serve  the 
salad,  mix  them  together,  put  on  the  salad  dish, 
cover  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  garnish  w^ith  the 
green  celer3^  leaves  and  serve  at  once. 

FRUIT  SALAD. 
Equal  quantities  of  grape  fruit  or  oranges,  bana- 
nas, apples  and  celery.  Peel  the  grape  fruit  or 
oranges,  carefully  removing  all  the  bitter  white  skin, 
cut  the  pulp,  the  bananas  and  apples  into  small  dice 
and  the  celery  fine  as  for  other  salads ;  put  the 
orange  and  apple  together;  the  latter  will  absorb 
the  juice  of  the  orange.  Set  all  on  ice; — these 
fruit  salads  must  be  ice  cold.  When  it  is  time  to 
serve,  mix  the  fruit  and  celery  together,  put  into  a 
salad  bowd,  cover  with  the  cream  dressing  into 
which  has  been  stirred  a  third  as  much  whipped 
cream  as  there  is  dressing,  and  add  a  little  more  salt 
to  it  in  mixing.  Serve  in  a  bed  of  tender  lettuce 
leaves. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Prepare  equal  parts  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  and 
fresh,  crisp  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces  which  will  look 
attractive  when  mixed  with  the  dressing ;  cut  in  dice 
four  cold,  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  mix  them  in  lightly 
with  the  potato  and  celery  when  adding  the  dress- 
ing. Use  mayonnaise  or  cream  dressing  v^ith  this 
salad,  garnish  with  dainty  celery  tops  and  serve. 

SALAD  OF  TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  CELERY. 

Select  nice,  smooth,  firm  tomatoes,  one  for  each 
person ;  blanch  them  in  the  usual  way,  cut  a  slice  from 
the  stem  end  and  remove  the  core  and  some  of  the 
seeds  ;  set  on  the  ice  to  get  cold.  Prepare  some  celery, 
shredding  it  fine  and  using  only  the  very  tender  part ; 


mix  it  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  stuff  the  tomatoes, 
allowing  the  celery  to  come  above  the  top,  serve 
each  in  a  leaf  or  two  of  crisp  lettuce  and  pour  some 
mayonnaise  around  them.    Salads  should  be  ice  cold. 

CELERIAC  AND  LETTUCE  SALAD. 
Boil  two  or  three  celery  roots  in  water  with  a 
little  salt  until  tender;  drain  and  let  them  get  cold. 
Cut  them  in  thin  slices,  make  a  nest  of  crisp  lettuce 
and  put  the  celery  slices  in  the  center.  Serve  with  a 
French  dressing. 

RAW  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES  AND  LETTUCE  SALAD. 
Wash  and  peel  the  artichokes,  cut  in  very  thin 
slices  and  put  into  an  earthen  bowl  with  vinegar  and 
water  with  a  lump  of  ice  in  it.  The  vinegar  will  pre- 
vent them  from  turning  dark.  When  ready  to  serve, 
place  in  the  center  of  nice,  fresh  lettuce  and  serve 
with  a  French  dressing. 

SALAD  A  LA  MACEDOINE. 
Take  several  kinds  of  cold  boiled  vegetables  in 
equal  quantities,  such  as  green  peas,  string  beans, 
flowerettes  of  cauliflower,  asparagus  points,  a  small 
potato  and  a  French  carrot  cut  in  small  dice,  and  a 
little  green  pepper  if  liked  ;  mix  together  and  serve  in 
a  nest  of  fresh,  crisp  lettuce  with  a  French  dressing, 
or  mayonnaise,  if  preferred. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD. 

Select  very  tender  asparagus,  cut  off  all  the 
woody  part  and  boil  until  tender,  set  aside  to  get 
cold,  and  then  put  on  ice  until  serving  time ;  arrange 
nicely  on  a  platter  or  individual  plates  and  serve 
with  either  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing. 
CUCUMBER  SALAD. 

Peel  and  cut  in  ver^^  thin  slices,  lay  in  a  bowl, 
cover  -with  water,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them 
and  put  a  lump  of  ice  on  top,  let  them  remain  until 


serving  time,  drain  off  the  water  and  serve  in  a  glass 

dish  with  a  French  dressing.    They  should  be  very 

cold  and  crisp.    A  little  green  pepper,  chopped  very 

fine,  is  an  addition ;    also  to  rub  the  spoon  used  in 

mixing  with  a  clove  of  garlic  gives  a  piquancy  to  the 

salad. 

COLD  SLAW. 

Select  a  firm  cabbage  and  shave  very  fine  on  a 
cutter  that  comes  for  this  purpose.  Use  the  cream 
dressing  or  French  dressing  with  a  little  dry  mustard 
added. 

TOMATO  SALAD. 

The  tomatoes  should  be  blanched  in  the  usual 
way,  and  either  sliced  or  cut  in  dice  or  served  whole ; 
or  they  inay  be  cut  in  quarters,  not  quite  separating 
them,  and  arranged  in  a  bed  of  lettuce  ^th  a  spoon- 
ful of  mayonnaise  on  top  of  each  tomato  and  the  let- 
tuce garnished  with  the  same. 
ENDIVE 
is  excellent  with  French  dressing. 
EGG  SALAD. 

Boil  three  eggs  hard,  cut  in  half  lengthwise,  re- 
move the  3^olks  and  mash  fine.  Mix  together  in  a 
saucepan  the  third  of  a  teaspoonful  each  of  dry  mus- 
tard, salt  and  ^'hite  pepper,  a  saltspoonful  of  curr^^ 
powder,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  a  teaspoonful  of 
vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  egg  well  beaten,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  olive  oil  and  a  tablespoonful  of  rich 
cream.  Put  the  ingredients  together  in  the  order  in 
which  they  are  named,  beat  well,  set  the  bowl  over 
the  steam  of  the  kettle  and  stir  constantly  until 
thick  and  creamy ;  remove  and  stir  in  the  mashed 
egg  yolks,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  set  on  the  ice  to  get 
very  cold.  To  serve,  fill  the  whites  of  egg,  dividing 
the  mixture  among  them,  put  each  half  egg  on  two 
or  three  leaves  of  tender  lettuce,  with  mayonnaise 
dressing  around  them. 


Desserts. 

APPLE  BETTY, 
Two  cups  of  tart  cooking  apples,  chopped,  a  cup 
and  a  half  of  stale  bread  cnimbs — bakers 'bread  is  the 
best ;  four  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  gen- 
erous tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  the  grated  rind  of 
one  lemon.  Butter  a  pudding  dish,  divide  the  ingre- 
dients into  four  layers,  beginning  with  apples  and 
finishing  with  bread  crumbs.  Sprinkle  the  sugar  and 
lemon  over  the  apples  and  cut  the  butter  into  tiny 
lumps  and  scatter  over  the  crumbs.  Bake  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with 
cream  or  hard  sauce. 

APPLE  CHARLOTTE. 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  eight  or  nine  good  cook- 
ing apples,  put  them  into  a  double  boiler  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon ;  cook  until  tender. 
Take  a  plain  mould  that  holds  three  pints,  butter  it 
well,  line  the  bottom  and  sides  with  very  thin  slices 
of  home-made  bread.  Remove  the  crust,  dip  each 
slice  in  melted  butter,  fit  them  evenly  together  in  the 
mould,  fill  with  the  apples,  cover  with  the  bread, 
dredge  it  with  sugar  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  in  a  quick  oven.  Have  a  hot  platter,  lay  it 
over  the  top  of  the  charlotte,  turn  it  over,  and  lift  off 
the  mould.  Serve  hot  with  or  without  sauce  or 
cream. 

APPLE  CROQUETTES. 

Peel,  core  and  quarter  four  good-sized  cooking 
apples,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  put  them  in  a  granite 
ware  saucepan  over  the  fire  with  a  small  tablespoon- 


ful  of  butter,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  the 
grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  saltspoonful  of  cin- 
namon ;  cover  tightly  and  cook  until  tender,  taking 
care  that  it  does  not  burn.  When  done  add  an  even 
tablespoonful  of  Groult's  potato  flour,  mixed  with  a 
very  little  water,  then  stir  in  one  beaten  egg,  and 
remove  from  the  fire.  Turn  into  a  deep  plate  to  get 
cold,  form  in  c^dinders,  dip  in  egg  and  dried  bread 
cruinbs  and  fr3^  in  boiling  fat.  Sift  powdered  sugar 
over  them  and  serve  hot,  with  or  w^ithout  cream. 

APPLES  STEWED  WHOLE. 

Take  some  nice,  tart  cooking  apples,  pare  and 
put  them  into  a  saucepan  w^ith  the  juice  of  tw^o 
lemons  and  the  rind  of  one ;  cover  with  water,  cook 
slowly  until  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  straw,  take 
them  from  the  water  with  a  draining  spoon.  Make 
a  syrup,  allowing  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  fruit,  use  as  much  of  the  water  the  apples  were 
cooked  in  as  will  dissolve  the  sugar ;  when  it  comes 
to  a  boil  add  the  apples  and  cook  until  clear.  Take 
the  apples  out,  core  them  and  fill  with  a  fruit  jelly,  if 
liked,  boil  down  the  S3^rup  and  pour  over  the  fruit. 
Serve  very  cold  with  whipped  or  plain  cream.  Bart- 
lett  pears  maybe  cooked  in  the  same  manner,  serving 
them  whole. 

APPLE  SOUFFLE. 

Seven  tart,  juicy  apples,  pared  and  cored,  and  cut 
fine.  Put  them  over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler  ^vith- 
out  any  water,  steam  until  tender,  then  stir  into 
them  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  cup  of 
sugar,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  turn  it  into  a  bowl 
to  cool.  When  it  is  cold  beat  in  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  whipped  very  light,  a  little  grated  lemon  peel, 
and  then  add  alternately  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  a  cup  of  stale  bread 
crumbs.    Beat  hard  for  a  fev^  moments  and  turn  into 


a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  one  hour.  Cover  it  while  baking  until 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before  it  is  done,  so  that  it  will 
not  form  a  hard  crust  and  become  dry.  Serve  warm 
in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  baked. 

APPLE  CUSTARD.-No.  U 
Grate  some  good,  tart  cooking  apples — enough 
to  measure  one  quart.  Beat  a  generous  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter  and  seven  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  a 
cream,  add  to  this  four  egg  yolks  beaten  light,  then 
the  apples  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  lastly 
the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  It 
can  be  baked  in  puff  paste  or  without.    Serve  cold. 

APPLE  CUSTARD —No.  2. 
Pare,  core  and  quarter  half  a  dozen  fine,  large 
cooking  apples,  put  them  in  a  double  boiler  with  the 
grated  rind  of  half  a  large  lemon,  cook  until  tender, 
and  press  through  a  sieve ;  there  must  be  three-quar- 
ters of  a  pint  of  the  puree.  Add  an  ounce  and  a  half 
of  granulated  sugar  and  set  it  away  to  get  cold. 
Then  beat  three  eggs  very  light  and  stir  gradually 
into  a  pint  of  rich  milk  alternately  with  the  apple 
puree,  add  a  little  cinnamon,  pour  it  into  a  pudding 
dish  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes.  Serve  cold 
with  a  little  cinnamon  and  sugar  sifted  over  it. 

BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 
Sift  a  pint  of  flour  with  a  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Put  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  butter  into  it  and  chop  it  fine  with  a 
knife;  mix  it  well — do  not  use  the  hands;  then  add 
milk  enough  to  moisten  it,  about  a  quarter  of  a  pint. 
Dust  a  pastry  board  w^ith  flour,  take  the  dough  from 
the  bowl,  roll  lightly  into  a  sheet  about  an  eighth  of 
an  inch  thick,  cut  into  squares  large  enough  to  hold 
an    apple.      Pare    and  core    medium  sized    cooking 

95 


apples,  fill  with  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon,  put  in 
the  middle  of  the  square  and  draw  the  corners  up 
over  the  apples,  moistening  them  with  a  little  white 
of  egg  or  water  to  make  them  stick.  Brush  over  the 
dumplings  with  beaten  egg  and  bake  in  a  good  oven. 
The  time  will  depend  upon  the  apples — about  half  an 
hour.     Serve  with  cream. 

APPLE  FLOAT. 
Have  a  pint  of  apple  puree,  made  from  nice  tart 
apples,  sweetened  to  taste  and  flavored  with  the 
grated  rind  of  lemon  and  cinnamon,  or  nutmeg  if  pre- 
ferred. Set  it  on  the  ice  that  it  may  be  very  cold, 
beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add 
to  the  puree  of  apples,  and  serve  with  cream. 

APPLES  FRIED. 

Wash  and  wipe  some  tart  cooking  apples,  cut  in 
slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  core  and  fry  them  in 
butter  until  tender  and  brown,  dredge  them  v^ith 
sugar  and  serve  hot. 

APPLE  MARMALADE. 

Two  pounds  of  tart  cooking  apples,  one  pound 
of  sugar,  one  pint  of  water,  one  lemon  and  some 
blanched  almonds.  Stir  the  sugar  and  water  to- 
gether and  boil  it  until  it  springs  from  the  spoon, 
then  add  the  apples  pared  and  cored  and  cut  in  small 
pieces,  cook  until  very  thick,  flavor  with  the  juice 
and  grated  peel  of  a  small  lemon.  Turn  into  a  wet 
mould,  when  cold  set  on  the  ice.  Turn  out  on  a  glass 
dish,  stick  it  thickly  over  with  the  blanched  almonds, 
garnish  with  whipped  cream  and  serve  with  cream. 

APPLE  MERINGUE. 

Put  a  pint  of  apple  sauce,  made  of  tart  cooking 

apples,  slightly  sweetened,  into  a  pudding  dish.    Beat 

the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  into  it 

a  cup  and  a  quarter  of  sugar,  flavor  with  a  very  little 


extract  of  lemon — a  few  drops  only — and  spread  over 
the  apple  sauce,  and  bake  twenty  or  twenty-five  min- 
utes. Make  a  custard  of  the  four  egg  yolks  and  a 
pint  of  milk,  sweeten  to  taste  and  flavor  with  va- 
nilla. Serve  the  meringue  very  cold  in  the  dish  in 
which  it  is  baked,  with  the  custard  as  a  sauce  in  a 
sauceboat  or  glass  pitcher. 

APPLE  PUDDING -No.  U 
Take  some  tart  cooking  apples,  pare,  core  and 
slice  them  and  lay  in  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes  to 
prevent  them  from  turning  dark.  Put  the  apples  in 
a  porcelain  lined  or  granite  saucepan  and  add  water 
as  deep  as  the  apples,  but  not  to  cover  them.  Cover 
the  saucepan  tightly  and  let  the  apples  cook  until 
tender,  then  mash  well,  add  sugar,  grated  lemon  peel 
and  cinnamon  to  taste.  Put  it  back  on  the  stove, 
and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
potato  flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold  w^ater,  stir  well 
and  let  it  cook  for  a  few^  minutes.  Turn  it  into  a 
mould  and  serve  the  next  day  with  cream. 

APPLE  PUDDING.-No.  2. 
Prepare  the  apples  as  for  Apple  Pudding,  No.  1. 
When  tender  mash  through  a  colander,  and  put  the 
puree  back  on  the  stove.  When  it  boils  stir  in  a  very 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  potato  flour  mixed  with  a 
little  cold  water,  and  let  it  cook  for  a  few  minutes. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  stir  in  a  wine  glass  of  sherry. 
Turn  into  a  mould,  set  it  on  the  ice  until  the  next 
day  and  serve  with  cream. 

APPLES  STEWED  IN  BUTTER. 
Take  half  a  dozen  good,  tart  cooking  apples — 
greenings  or  Newtown  pippins ;  peel,  cut  in  slices 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  and  core  them. 
Melt  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  spider,  and  laA^  in  the 
slices  of  apples  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  granula- 


ted  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  stew  gently  over  a 
moderate  fire.  When  done  arrange  them  nicely  on 
a  dish,  melt  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly 
in  the  spider,  and  when  ready  to  serve  mix  with  it 
half  a  glass  of  Madeira  or  sherry ;  pour  over  the 
apples  and  serve. 

TO  STEAM  APPLES. 
Pare  and  core  some  good  cooking  apples,  place 
them  in  an  earthen  or  granite  ware  dish  that  fits  in 
a  steamer.  Have  water  boiling  in  the  steamer,  set 
the  dish  over  it,  stretch  a  towel  over  the  top,  put  on 
the  cover  and  fold  the  ends  of  the  towel  over  it. 
Steam  the  apples  until  tender — about  twenty  min- 
utes. Take  the  apples  out,  measure  the  juice  in  the 
pan  and  add  to  it  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar,  flavor 
with  a  little  lemon  juice,  cook  until  thick,  put  the 
apples  in  a  glass  dish  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them. 
It  will  be  a  jelly  when  cold.    Serve  with  cream. 

SCALLOPED  APPLES. 
Pare,  core  and  cut  in  slices  some  good,  tart  cook- 
ing apples,  put  a  layer  in  a  baking  dish  with  sugar, 
cinnamon  and  a  grating  of  lemon  rind,  dot  with  tiny 
lumps  of  butter,  then  another  layer  of  apples,  sugar, 
etc.,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full.  Add  a  very  little 
water  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  use  a  little  more 
sugar  and  butter  on  top  than  on  the  other  layers. 
Bake  until  the  apples  are  thoroughly  cooked.  Cover 
until  nearly  done,  when  the  cover  should  be  removed 
to  allow  them  to  brown.  Serve  hot  with  cream  or 
hard  sauce. 

BANANA  FRITTERS. 

Half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  a  scant  half  pint  of 
flour,  two  rounded  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 
and  a  small  pinch  of  salt,  stir  all  together;  this 
should  make  a  batter  as  thick  as  that  of  cake.  Roll 
the  pieces  of  fruit  in  it  with  a  fork,  and  drop  quicklj^ 


into  boiling  fat.  The  batter  should  be  prepared  just 
as  it  is  wanted  and  not  allowed  to  stand.  Cut  three 
medium-sized  bananas  into  three  pieces  each  and 
divide  each  slice  lengthwise  so  that  the  fruit  will  be 
thin  enough  to  cook  thoroughly  while  the  batter  is 
browning.  This  recipe  will  make  eighteen  small  frit- 
ters. Put  them  on  a  hot  platter — do  not  pile  up — 
and  serve  immediately  with  a  fruit  sauce. 

BAVARIAN  CHERRY  CAKE. 
Half  a  pound  of  fine,  juicy  black  cherries,  five 
tablespoonfuls  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  five  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  powdered  sugar,  five  eggs  and  one  ounce  of 
sweet  chocolate  grated.  Put  the  grated  chocolate  in 
a  mixing  bowl,  break  an  egg  into  it  and  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  bread  crumbs  and  one  of  sugar,  beat 
light  and  break  another  egg  into  it,  adding  another 
tablespoonful  of  bread  crumbs  and  one  of  sugar. 
Then  separate  the  three  remaining  eggs,  the  yolks 
from  the  whites,  adding  one  yolk  at  a  time  alter- 
nately with  bread  crumbs  and  sugar  until  all  are 
used.  Add  the  cherries.  Beat  the  three  whites  of 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  fold  it  in  lightly.  Butter 
thick  a  cake  mould,  sift  dried  bread  crumbs  over  it, 
turn  the  cake  into  it  and  bake  about  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Test  it  as  other  cake. 
In  Bavaria  it  is  served  cold,  but  I  think  it  would  also 
be  nice  hot  with  fruit  sauce. 

CRANBERRY  BAVARIAN  CREAM. 
Stew  one  quart  of  cranberries;  while  hot  rub 
through  a  sieve ;  measure  out  half  a  pint,  and  add 
to  it  a  half  cup  of  granulated  sugar.  Have  a  quarter 
of  a  box  of  gelatine  soaked  in  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of 
water  one  hour,  set  the  bowl  over  steam  entirely  to 
dissolve  the  gelatine,  then  add  the  cranberries.  Turn 
it  into  an  earthenware  bowl,  set  in  a  pan  of  ice 
water  and  beat  until  it  is  perfectly  cold  and  begins 


to  thicken,  then  add  half  a  cup  of  rich  milk  and  beat 
again,  and  at  the  last  add  half  a  cup  of  whipped 
cream.  Beat  it  thoroughly  and  turn  it  into  a  mould 
and  set  on  the  ice  to  congeal.  Serve  with  cream. 
Do  not  use  a  tin  mould  for  cranberries. 

A  MOULD  OF  FRESH  FRUIT. 
Take  enough  fresh,  ripe  currants  and  raspberries 
to  make  half  a  cupful  of  juice  of  each,  and  press 
through  a  sieve  fine  enough  to  retain  the  seeds ;  or 
the  fruit  may  be  strained  and  squeezed  through 
cheese  cloth.  Take  also  enough  ripe  cherries  to  make 
a  cupful  of  juice  and  mix  all  together.  Put  a  quart 
of  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  with  four 
ounces  of  sugar  and  two  ounces  of  almonds  blanched 
and  cut  fine.  Mix  five  ounces  of  arrowroot  or  the 
same  quantity  of  potato  flour  with  the  cold  fruit 
juices,  stir  it  into  the  boiling  water  and  let  it  boil 
about  five  minutes,  turn  it  into  a  wet  mould,  and 
when  cold  set  on  the  ice.  This  should  be  made  the 
day  before  it  is  to  be  served.    Serve  with  cream. 

A  DESSERT  OF  MIXED  FRUIT. 

Peel  some  sweet,  juicy  oranges,  removing  all  the 

white,  bitter  skin,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  put  a  layer  at 

the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  then 

put  a  layer  of  freshly  grated  cocoanut  and  a  layer  of 

bananas,  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  repeat,  beginning 

again  with  oranges,  until  the  bowl  is  full,  finishing 

with  a  layer  of  cocoanut.     Pour  over  it  any  juice 

that  may  have  run  from  the  oranges,  and  if  liked  a 

glass  or  two  of  sherry  may  be  added.    Serve  very 

cold. 

GOOSEBERRY  PUDDING. 

Use  either  ripe  or  unripe  English  gooseberries  for 

this  pudding,  stem  and  pick  off  the  flow^er,  wash  and 

cover  with    water    and    cook    until    tender,    strain 

through  a  sieve.    Return  to  the  fire,  let  it  come  to  a 


boil,  sweeten  to  taste,  flavor  with  cinnamon  and 
some  almonds  blanched  and  cut  fine.  Stiffen  with 
potato  flour  as  in  other  fruit  puddings— a  table- 
spoonful  to  a  quart  of  the  puree — and  mould  and 
serve  in  the  same  way. 

PINEAPPLE  MERINGUE. 

Half  a  large  or  one  small  pineapple  grated,  two 
ounces  of  butter,  three  of  granulated  sugar,  an  ounce 
and  a  half  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  and  the  whites  of  four.  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar,  add  the  yolks  and  one  white  of  egg  beaten 
well  together,  then  the  fruit  and  bread  crumbs ;  turn 
into  a  pudding  dish  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Beat 
three  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff"  froth  and  add  three- 
quarters  of  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar  to  it,  flavor 
with  a  few  drops  of  almond  extract,  spread  over  the 
pudding,  set  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  warm  water  in  the 
oven  and  bake  about  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Test 
with  a  straw;  when  it  comes  out  clean  it  is  done. 
Serve  cold. 

PRUNE  SOUFFLE. 

Soak  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  prunes  in 
water  to  cover  them  over  night,  cook  until  soft  in 
the  water  they  ^were  soaked  in,  drain,  take  out  the 
stones  and  press  through  a  puree  sieve.  Add  half  a 
cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in  a  pudding  dish 
twent}'  minutes.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is 
baked,  cold,  with  cream. 

PRUNE  MOULD. 
Prepare  a  prune  pur^e  as  above  and  to  the  same 
quantity  have  a  third  of  a  box  of  gelatine  soaked  in 
a  little  of  the  water  the  prunes  were  cooked  in,  and 
dissolved  over  the  teakettle.  Stir  quickly  into  the 
puree,  then  add  three  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.     Wet  a  mould  and  pour  the  mixture  into  it; 


set  on  the  ice  to  congeal.     Turn  out  on  a  glass  dish 
and  serve  with  cream. 

STEWED  DRIED  FIGS. 
Wash  and  cut  in  half  two  dozen  dried  figs,  slice 
very  thin  one  small  lemon,  add  to  the  figs,  put  in  a 
saucepan  and  pour  over  them  cold  water  almost  to 
cover.  Let  them  cook  until  the  lemon  is  clear. 
Sweeten  to  taste. 

RHUBARB  MERINGUE. 
Take  three  cups  of  stewed  rhubarb,  put  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  when 
hot  add  two  ounces  of  butter  and  three  ounces  of 
bread  crumbs  dried  and  rolled  fine,  the  juice  and  rind 
of  half  a  lemon.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in 
three  egg  yolks,  turn  it  into  a  pudding  dish,  set  aside 
while  preparing  the  meringue.  Beat  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  three-quarters  of  a 
cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  pour  over  the  rhubarb. 
Set  the  pudding  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  the 
oven  and  bake  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Test  with  a 
broom  straw;  when  it  comes  out  of  the  meringue 
clean  it  is  done.    Serve  cold  with  cream. 

SCALLOPED  RHUBARB. 
A  dozen  large  stalks  of  young  rhubarb,  washed 
and  scraped  and  cut  in  thin  slices,  half  a  loaf  of 
bakers'  stale  bread  grated,  four  heaping  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  granulated  sugar,  one  generous  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  large  lemon.  But- 
ter a  pudding  dish,  divide  the  ingredients  into  four 
parts,  begin  with  the  rhubarb  and  finish  wnth  bread 
crumbs.  Sprinkle  the  sugar  and  grated  lemon  peel 
over  the  rhubarb  and  cut  the  butter  in  tiny  bits  over 
the  bread  crumbs,  dredge  the  top  w4th  sugar.  Bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven  and 
serve  hot  v^ith  cream  or  hard  sauce. 


RICE  AND  DATE  PUDDING. 
Half  a  cup  of  rice  washed  and  boiled  in  water, 
one  pound  of  dates,  washed  first  in  cold  then  in  hot 
water,  stoned  and  chopped  a  little,  one  pint  of  milk, 
two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar, 
and  a  little  salt.  Butter  well  a  pudding  dish,  lay  in 
half  the  dates,  then  over  them  half  the  rice,  then  dates 
again  with  a  layer  of  rice  on  top.  Beat  the  eggs 
light,  add  to  them  the  milk,  sugar  and  salt,  and 
pour  over  the  rice  and  fruit  and  bake  from  twenty- 
five  to  thirty  minutes.    Serve  cold,  with  cream. 

RICE  AND  FIG  PUDDING 

may  be  made    according    to    the  preceding    recipe, 

steaming  or  stewing  the  figs  a  little  and  chopping 

slightly. 

RICE  AND  RAISIN  PUDDING. 

Soak  the  raisins,  seed  them  and  stew  a  little,  and 

follow  the  same  recipe. 

RICE  AND  PRUNE  PUDDING. 
Soak  the  prunes  over  night,  stew  and  stone  and 
slightly  chop  them  and  proceed  as  in  the  other  pud- 
dings.   Any  kind  of  dried  or  fresh  fruit  may  be  used 
for  this  very  wholesome  and  nutritious  pudding. 

RICE  FLOUR  PUDDING. 
Take  a  quart  of  milk,  leaving  out  enough  to  mix 
with  three  ounces  of  rice  flour,  put  the  rest  in  a  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire.  When  it  boils  add  one  ounce  and  a 
half  of  sugar,  one-half  ounce  of  sweet  and  a  few  bitter 
almonds,  blanched  and  pounded,  or  chopped  very 
fine,  one  ounce  of  butter,  and  a  small  piece  of  vanilla 
bean  if  convenient,  if  not  flavor  at  the  last  with  va- 
nilla extract.  Mix  the  three  ounces  of  rice  flour  with 
milk,  reserved  from  the  quart,  and  stir  into  the  pud- 
ding.    Beat  one  egg  j^olk  with  half  a  cup  of  cream 


and  stir  in  just  before  removing  from  the  fire.  Turn 
into  a  mould  that  has  been  dipped  in  cold  water  and 
serve  very  cold  with  fruit  sauce. 

RICE  SOUFFLE  COLD. 
Put  into  a  double  boiler  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
well  washed  rice,  a  pint  and  a  third  of  milk,  a  small 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  cook  until  the  rice  is  so 
stiff  that  it  no  longer  adheres  to  the  sides  of  the  pan. 
Soak  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  water  fifteen  minutes.  Put  a  pint 
of  thin  cream  or  rich  milk  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire 
with  two  ounces  of  blanched  and  pounded  almonds ; 
while  it  is  coming  to  a  boil  beat  two  egg  yolks  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar  together 
until  light,  then  add  the  gelatine  to  the  milk  on  the 
stove.  When  it  has  dissolved  pour  a  little  of  the 
cream  into  the  eggs  and  sugar,  mix  well,  then  turn  it 
back  into  the  saucepan,  and  stir  all  rapidly  together 
until  it  begins  to  thicken,  remove  at  once  from  the 
fire,  add  to  the  rice  and  beat  until  smooth.  Rinse  a 
mould  with  cold  water,  turn  the  soufile  into  it  and 
set  on  ice  until  it  is  wanted.  Turn  it  out  on  a  glass 
dish  and  serve  with  or  without  a  fruit  sauce. 

RICE  PUDDING.-No.  U 
Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice,  wash  well  in 
cold  and  then  scald  in  boiling  Avater,  drain  and  put 
on  in  a  quart  of  sweet  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  cook 
one  hour  and  a  half.  A  little  before  it  is  done  stir  in 
an  ounce  and  a  half  of  butter,  one  ounce  of  sugar,  a 
little  grated  lemon  peel,  a  few  sweet  and  bitter 
almonds  blanched  and  chopped  very  fine  or  pounded 
in  a  mortar.  Don't  stir  too  much,  but  keep  the  rice 
grains  whole.  When  done  dip  a  mould  in  cold  water 
and  turn  the  rice  into  it.  Set  it  on  the  ice  and  serve 
very  cold  with  a  fruit  sauce. 


RICE  PUDDING -No.  2. 
Put  a  scant  half  cup  of  rice  to  soak  in  water  for 
an  hour,  then  boil  in  salted  boiling  water  for  twenty 
minutes.  While  it  is  cooking  put  three  cups  of  rich 
milk  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar  in  a  saucepan  on  the 
stove,  mix  a  tablespoonful  of  com  starch  with  a 
little  cold  milk,  stir  with  the  milk  and  sugar  and  let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  a  cupful  of  the  hot  boiled 
rice  and  stir  until  it  thickens  like  custard.  Turn  it 
into  a  pudding  dish,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  anything 
liked  and  bake  slowly  until  a  delicate  brown.  Serve 
cold  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  baked,  with  brandy 
peaches  or  any  fruit  liked. 

RICE  OMELETTE  SOUFFLE. 
Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  well-washed  Caro- 
lina rice  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk  until  stiff.  Stir 
in  two  ounces  of  butter,  half  a  pint  of  cream  and  four 
egg  yolks  beaten  light  with  two  ounces  of  granulated 
sugar  and  vanilla  to  taste,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  citron  cut  fine  and  two  ounces  of  almonds  blanched 
and  pounded  fine  in  a  mortar.  Stir  all  well  together, 
adding  at  the  last  four  whites  of  eggs  beaten  very 
stiff.  Put  in  a  pudding  dish  and  bake  until  firm- 
about  half  an  hour.  Serve  immediately  in  the  dish 
in  which  it  was  baked. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE.-No.  U 
Puff  paste  makes  a  delicious  strawberry  short- 
cake. Roll  thin,  as  for  pie  crust,  and  line  three  layer 
cake  tins  and  bake.  Put  a  quart  of  fresh,  ripe  straw- 
berries stemmed  in  a  bowl,  sweeten  them,  cover  and 
stand  the  bowl  on  the  shelf  over  the  range,  stir  occa- 
sionally and  mash  slightly  with  the  back  of  a  spoon. 
When  serving  time  comes  lay  one  of  the  shells  on  the 
dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served,  and  pour  a  third  of 
the  berries  over  it,  then  put  on  a  second  and  a  third, 

105 


decorate  the  top  layer  with  whipped  cream  and  serve 
with  cream.  It  should  be  served  immediately  after 
the  berries  are  added  to  the  crust  that  it  may  be 
crisp.     Both  berries  and  shells  should  be  cold. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE.-No.  2. 
Make  a  biscuit  dough  in  the  proportion  of  a  pint 
of  flour,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  enough  milk  to  mix  it.  Roll  about  an 
inch  thick,  cut  it  round  or  oblong  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  about  fifteen  minutes.  Cut  around  the  edge 
and  pull  genth^  apart,  butter  slightly,  have  the  berries 
prepared  as  for  Shortcake  No.  1.  Put  the  crust  on 
the  serving  dish,  pour  half  the  berries  over  it,  put  on 
the  top  and  pour  the  remainder  of  the  berries  over  it. 
Serve  with  cream. 

LADIES'  LOCKS  FILLED  WITH  STRAWBERRIES. 
Roll  the  puff  paste  thin,  cut  in  strips  an  inch  wide 
and  about  twelve  inches  long;  wind  these  around 
the  forms  overlapping  the  paste  as  it  is  wound. 
Brush  over  with  beaten  egg  and  bake  on  the  forms. 
When  baked  slip  the  forms  out,  fill  with  strawberries 
prepared  as  for  strawberry  shortcake. 

STRAWBERRIES  SCALLOPED. 
Equal  quantities  of  fresh  strawberries  and  bakers' 
stale  bread  grated.  Begin  with  a  layer  of  the  berries, 
sprinkle  well  with  sugar,  then  a  layer  of  bread  cinimbs, 
dot  with  bits  of  butter,  then  another  layer  of  fruit 
and  sugar;  finish  with  bread  crumbs  and  butter, 
sprinkle  a  little  sugar  over  the  top  and  bake  half  an 
hour  in  a  good  oven.  Serve  hot  with  cream.  Cur- 
rants and  raspberries,  either  separately  or  mixed, 
and  blackberries  also  make  excellent  puddings. 


CURRANT  PUDDING. 
Stem  and  wash  some  currants,  mash  through  a 
sieve,  add  as  much  water  as  there  is  currant  juice 
and  sweeten  to  taste.  To  one  quart  of  liquid  take 
two  ounces  of  Groult's  potato  flour.  Mix  the  potato 
flour  with  a  little  of  the  cold  fruit  juice,  put  the  rest 
over  the  fire,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  stir  in  the 
flour  and  let  it  cook  for  a  few  minutes.  It  will  be- 
come clear.  Turn  it  into  a  mould  that  has  been 
dipped  in  cold  water,  and  set  it  when  cool  on  the  ice 
until  the  next  day.  Turn  out  carefully  and  serve 
with  cream. 

STEWED  DATES. 

Break  the  dates  apart,  wash  in  cold,  then  in  hot 
water,  drain  them  and  cover  with  cold  water ;  cook 
until  tender — a  very  few  minutes — take  out  the  fruit, 
add  a  little  sugar  to  the  water  and  boil  five  minutes, 
pour  over  the  dates  and  set  away  to  get  cold. 

STUFFED  DATES. 
Wash  the  dates  as  in  the  other  recipes,  drain  in  a 
colander  and  shake  from  time  to  time  until  the^^  are 
dry.     Stone  them  and  fill  with  blanched  almonds,  or 
chopped  nuts  or  cocoanut  grated. 

TAPIOCA  AND  APPLE  PUDDING. 
Six  good,  tart  cooking  apples,  three-quarters  of 
a  cup  of  pearl  tapioca,  sugar  to  taste  and  one  quart 
of  water.  Soak  the  tapioca  in  the  water  two  hours, 
then  put  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until  clear, 
sweeten  to  taste.  It  may  be  flavored  w^ith  the  rind 
of  lemon  cut  very  thin  and  removed  when  the  tapioca 
is  done.  Peel  and  core  the  apples  and  fill  the  holes 
with  sugar,  arrange  them  in  a  pudding  dish  and  pour 
the  tapioca  over  them,  bake  until  the  apples  are 
tender.  A  few  tiny  bits  of  butter  on  the  top  will 
make  it  brown  a  little.  Serve  hot  or  cold  with  cream 
and  sugar. 

107 


TAPIOCA  AND  STRAWBERRY  JELLY. 
Five  ounces  of  Groult's  tapioca,  two  cups  of 
boiling  water,  two  cups  of  strawberry  juice,  four 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  dash  of  salt. 
Hull  and  wash  the  berries,  mash  w^ith  a  spoon  and 
strain  through  a  fine  cheese-cloth.  Put  the  boiling 
water  in  a  double  boiler,  and  sprinkle  in  the  tapioca, 
stirring  to  prevent  lumping.  Let  it  cook  until  clear, 
add  the  sugar  and  salt,  and  then  the  strawberry 
juice,  and  boil  until  thick — a  few  minutes  only ;  turn 
into  an  earthenware  mould ;  when  cold  set  on  the 
ice.  It  is  better  to  make  it  the  day  before  it  is 
wanted.     It  should  be  served  with  cream. 

TAPIOCA  AND  RASPBERRY  JELLY. 
Follow  the  above  recipe,  using  raspberries  in  the 
same  proportion. 

TAPIOCA  AND  CURRANT  JELLY. 

Follow  the  recipe  for  tapioca  and  strawberry 
jelly. 

PEARL  SAGO  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES. 

Soak  half  a  cup  of  pearl  sago  two  hours  in  a  cup 
of  cold  \vater,  then  add  half  a  cup  of  water  and  a 
cup  and  a  half  of  fruit  iuice — strawberry,  rasiDberr^^ 
or  currant ;  boil  for  twentj^  minutes  and  sweeten  to 
taste.  Fruit  syrups  may  be  used  in  winter;  it  will 
require  less  of  the  SA^rup  than  fruit  juice. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING.— No.  I. 
Cut  six  small  tea  buns  in  half,  butter  well,  using 
two  generous  ounces  of  butter  for  the  six,  and  put 
them  together  again.  Beat  three  eggs  with  a  cup 
and  a  half  of  rich  milk,  add  half  a  cup  of  almonds 
blanched  and  chopped  fine,  one  ounce  of  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sherry,  let  the  buns  soak  in  this  for 
awhile.  Butter  a  mould,  sprinkle  with  fine  bread 
crumbs,  take  the  buns  out  of  the  custard,  lav  them  in 


the  mould  and  pour  the  custard  over  them.  Set  the 
mould  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  in  the  oven  and  bake 
three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and  serve  hot  with  a 
sauce. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING.— No.  2. 
Cut  some  slices  of  home-made  bread  about  half 
an  inch  thick,  butter  and  lay  in  a  pudding  dish, 
sprinkle  with  currants,  put  another  layer  of  buttered 
bread  and  currants.  Beat  three  eggs  light  and  stir 
into  a  pint  of  milk,  sweeten  to  taste,  flavor  with  a 
little  grated  lemon  peel  or  cinnamon,  pour  over  the 
bread  and  butter  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
the  custard  is  set.  Test  with  a  knife ;  if  it  comes  out 
clean  it  is  done.  If  baked  too  long  the  pudding  will 
be  watery.     Serve  cold  and  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is 

baked. 

BREAD  CUSTARD. 

Put  a  pint  of  rich  milk  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire. 
When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  half  a  cup  of  grated 
stale  bread  crumbs,  then  stir  in  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  little  grating  of  lemon  peel,  a 
quarter  of  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  almonds  blanched  and  chopped  fine. 
Have  two  eggs  beaten  light,  remove  the  saucepan 
from  the  fire,  stir  a  little  of  the  mixture  into  the  eggs 
and  then  turn  that  into  the  saucepan,  stir  well  for  a 
moment  and  pour  it  into  a  pudding  dish.  Set  the 
dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  the  oven  and  bake 
about  twenty  minutes,  until  firm  in  the  center;  test 
with  a  knife.  If  it  comes  out  clean  the  pudding  is 
done ;  if  it  bakes  too  long  it  will  be  watery.  It  may 
be  eaten  cold  or  hot.  If  served  hot  add  a  quarter  of 
a  cup  more  bread  crumbs. 

FRIED  BREAD. 
Sweeten  a  pint  of  milk,  flavor  ^vith  cinnamon  or 
nutmeg  to  taste.     Have  some  slices  of  home-made 

109 


bread  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  off  the  crust  and  soak 
the  bread  in  the  custard  until  all  is  absorbed,  turning 
the  bread  in  it.  Put  some  butter  in  a  spider ;  when 
hot  fry  the  bread  a  nice  bro-wn  on  both  sides.  Ar- 
range the  slices  nicely  on  a  platter  and  serve  with  or 
without  a  sauce. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM. 
Soak  a  third  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  a  very  little 
cold  water.  Put  a  cup  and  a  half  of  milk  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  four  ounces  of  sweet,  fine  chocolate  grated, 
let  it  boil  until  dissolved  and  add  a  slightly  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Take  two-thirds  of  the 
soaked  gelatine  and  put  into  the  chocolate  when 
melted,  cool  the  mixture  and  turn  into  a  mould,  roll 
the  mould  from  side  to  side  in  the  hands  until  it  is 
thoroughly  coated  with  the  mixture  about  a  finger 
thick.  When  cold,  even  off  the  surface  with  a  knife. 
Whip  about  half  a  pint  of  nice,  rich  cream,  sweeten 
with  powdered  sugar  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Melt 
the  other  third  of  the  soaked  gelatine  in  a  little  boil- 
ing water  and  stir  quickly  into  the  cream  and  fill  the 
chocolate  v^dth  it.     Set  on  the  ice.     Serve  very  cold. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD. 

Put  a  pint  and  a  half  of  rich  milk  into  a  double 
boiler  over  the  fire  with  the  third  of  a  vanilla  bean 
split  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and 
stir  in  two  ounces  of  fine,  sweet  chocolate  grated  and 
a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Let  it  boil  for 
a  few  moments,  remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  very 
light  four  eggs,  strain  the  chocolate  gradually  over 
them,  stirring  all  the  time,  add  a  little  salt,  and 
sugar  if  necessary.  Rinse  a  plain  mould  in  cold 
water,  pour  the  custard  into  it,  set  the  mould  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes.  Test 
with  a  knife.     Too  long  cooking  makes  the  custard 


watery.  It  must  be  served  ice  cold  and  may  be  pre- 
pared the  day  before.  Serye  with  cream"  or  soft 
boiled  custard. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 
Beat  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream 
and  stir  m  six  egg  yolks,  one  at  a  time,  then  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine,  sweet  chocolate  grated  a 
cup  of  a  monds  blanched  and  chopped  fine,  six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  citron  cut  yery  fine,  beat  the  six  whites  of  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth  and  stir  in  at  the  last.  Pour  into  amould 
and  boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour  and  send  to  the 
table  hot  with  whipped  cream  poured  around  it,  or 
any  fine  sauce  seryed  in  a  sauceboat. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 
One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  a  cup  and  a  half  of 
flour  sifted,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  a  heaping  tablespoon- 
M  of  butter,  two  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  sep- 
arately, a  teaspoonful  of  Cleyeland's  baking  powder 
mixed  with  the  flour.  Beat  butter  and  stfgL  to  a 
cream  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then 
add  milk  and  flour  alternately  by  degrees,  and  the 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  stirred  in  at 
the  last.  Bake  half  an  hour.  Serye  hot  with  plenty 
of  sauce.  ^       - 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD  BAKED. 
A  pint  and  a  half  of  rich  milk,  a  cup  and  a  half  of 
granulated  sugar,  the  fourth  of  a  yanilla  bean  Put 
the  milk  and  yanilla  bean  cut  smaH  into  a  double 
boiler  oyer  the  fire.  Melt  the  sugar  without  water 
m  a  spider,  stirring  constantly  until  it  is  all  dissolved 
and  the  syrup  is  a  rich  golden  brown.  Do  not  let  it 
get  too  dark  or  it  will  be  bitter.  When  the  milk  is  at 
the  boiling  point  stir  in  half  the  boiling  syrup-if  nut 
m  too  fast  the  milk  will  boil  oyer.  Let  it  cook  until 
the  sugar  (if  it  hardened  as  it  touched  the  milk)  dis- 


solves.  Have  four  eggs  beaten  very  light  in  a  bowl, 
pour  the  milk  over  them,  add  a  little  salt,  and  if 
vanilla  bean  is  not  used  for  flavoring,  stir  in  extract 
of  vanilla  to  taste.  Rinse  a  mould  with  cold  water, 
pour  the  custard  into  it  and  set  it  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water  in  the  oven,  bake  from  twenty  to  twenty-five 
minutes  and  test  with  a  knife.  If  it  comes  out  clean 
it  is  done.  Add  boiling  water  to  the  remainder  of 
the  S3^rup  and  let  it  cook  gently  until  it  is  the  con- 
sistency of  thick  cream.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Serve 
very  cold. 

SOFT-BOILED  CUSTARD. 
Put  a  quart  of  rich  milk  in  a  double  boiler  over 
the  fire  v^ith  a  third  of  a  vanilla  bean,  split  in  half, 
and  sugar  to  taste.  Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  add  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  and  when  the  milk  comes  to  the  boiling 
point  drop  the  whites  of  eggs  into  it  by  tablespoon- 
fuls  in  egg-shape,  turn  them  over  in  the  hot  milk  for 
a  few  seconds,  repeat  until  all  are  done,  drain  them 
and  return  the  milk  to  the  saucepan.  Beat  the  six 
egg  yolks  to  a  light  cream,  turn  the  hot  milk  over  it 
gradually  and  pour  the  custard  back  into  the  boiler ; 
return  to  the  fire  and  stir  vigorously  until  it  thickens 
and  is  smooth  to  the  taste.  Remove  from  the  fire, 
pour  at  once  into  a  bowl,  add  a  little  salt,  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  Then  put  on  the  ice  and  at  serving 
time  turn  into  a  glass  bowl,  arrange  the  whites  of 
eggs  on  top  and  serve  with  sponge  cake. 

A  SIMPLE  DESSERT. 
A  loaf  of  stale  sponge  cake  —  one  that  has  been 
baked  in  a  border  mould  looks  pretty.  Saturate  the 
cake  with  orange  juice  to  w^hich  has  been  added  a 
little  lemon.  Stick  the  cake  over  v^ith  blanched 
almonds  and  fill  the  center  with  whipped  cream.  If 
the  cake  is  a  plain  loaf,  pile  the  cream  around  it. 


GINGER  CREAM. 
Soak  a  quarter  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  half  a  cup 
of  milk  for  half  an  hour,  then  place  the  bowl  over 
steam  until  the  gelatine  is  perfectly  dissolved.  Add 
to  it  four  ounces  of  granulated  sugar  and  a  pint  of 
whipped  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  preserved 
ginger  chopped  fine,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the  ginger 
sj^rup  and  a  tablespoonful  of  almonds  blanched  and 
chopped  very  fine.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken, 
pour  into  a  mould  and  set  on  the  ice.  Serve  in  a  glass 
dish  and  powder  the  top  with  chopped  almonds. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING. 

Two  cups  of  Graham  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  one 
cup  of  Porto  Rico  molasses,  one  cup  of  raisins  stoned 
and  slightly  chopped,  one  egg,  one  even  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  a  little  nutmeg,  if  liked, 
and  a  small  pinch  of  salt.  Flour  the  raisins  with  a 
little  white  flour,  mix  all  the  ingredients  thoroughly 
together,  butter  a  mould  and  steam  three  hours. 
Serve  with  a  sauce.  If  there  should  be  any  of  the 
pudding  left  over,  it  can  be  used  by  cutting  in  slices 
half  an  inch  thick,  each  piece  dipped  in  milk,  in  which 
an  egg  has  been  stirred,  fried  brown  in  a  little  butter, 
and  served  hot  with  a  sauce. 

NALESNEKY  (a  Russian  Recipe). 

Beat  three  yolks  of  eggs  light,  add  to  it  half  a 
cup  of  milk,  half  a  cup  of  water,  one  cup  of  flour,  and 
a  little  salt,  mix  until  smooth,  then  stir  in  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Have  some 
melted  butter,  brush  over  the  bottom  of  a  frying  pan 
and  pour  a  little  of  the  batter  into  it,  let  it  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pan  without  being  thicker  than  paper, 
let  it  brown,  turning  it  to  brown  the  other  side, 
spread  with  any  jelly  preferred,  fold  in  half  and  fold 
again,  making  a  wedge-shaped  cake.     Use  all  the 


batter  in  this  way,  and  serve  hot.     It  would  be  well 
to  have  two  spiders  in  use. 

NOODLE  PUDDING. 

Put  two  ounces  and  a  half  of  noodles  in  a  pint  of 
boiling  milk  and  cook  until  stiff  like  mush.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  iDut- 
ter,  one  ounce  of  sugar,  tw^o  tablespoonfuls  of  finely 
chopped  almonds,  a  few^  drops  of  extract  of  almond, 
when  cool  add  three  eggs  and  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of 
cream  beaten  together,  and  turn  the  mixture  into  a 
well  buttered  mould  sprinkled  thoroughly  with  fine 
sifted  bread  crumbs.  Set  the  mould  in  a  pan  of  boil- 
ing water  in  the  oven,  cover  to  prevent  browning, 
and  if  the  mould  has  a  pipe  through  the  center  bake 
half  an  hour,  if  a  plain  mould  it  will  require  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Turn  out  of  the  mould  and 
serve  hot  with  a  sauce. 

PARADISE  PUDDING. 

Melt  two  and  a  half  ounces  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, stir  into  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  flour 
and  a  cup  and  a  half  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  let  it  cook 
until  it  no  longer  sticks  to  the  side  of  the  pan,  remove 
from  the  fire  and  let  it  cool.  Then  stir  in  an  ounce 
and  a  half  of  sugar,  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
almonds  blanched  and  chopped  and  a  little  vanilla 
to  flavor — vanilla  sugar  is  better  than  the  extract — 
then  mix  in  five  well  beaten  eggs,  a  little  at  a  time. 
Turn  it  into  a  well  buttered  mould  sprinkled  with 
dried  and  sifted  bread  crumbs,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot 
v^ater  in  the  oven,  cover  to  prevent  browning  and 
bake  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve  hot 
with  a  wine  or  fruit  sauce. 

PRINCESS  PUDDING. 

Melt  two  and  a  half  ounces  of  butter  in  a  quarter 
of  a  cup  of  rich  milk  over  the  fire,  stir  an  ounce  and  a 
half  of  flour  into  half  a  cup  of  milk  and  add  to  the 


boiling  milk,  stirring  constantly  until  it  becomes  a 
smooth  paste  and  no  longer  adheres  to  the  pan.  Re- 
move from  the  fire ;  when  cold  stir  in  one  good  ounce 
of  sugar,  an  ounce  of  almonds  blanched  and  pounded 
very  fine  w^ith  a  dozen  cardamom  seeds,  three  v^ell 
beaten  eggs,  a  little  at  a  time,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
almond  extract.  Beat  well,  turn  into  a  buttered 
pudding  mould  sprinkled  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  set 
the  mould  covered  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  in  the 
oven,  and  if  the  mould  has  a  pipe  in  the  center  bake 
from  thirty  to  thirty-five  minutes.  Turn  it  out  and 
serve  immediately  with  a  fruit  or  wine  sauce. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 
Two  pounds  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants, 
one  pound  of  citron,  half  a  pound  of  almonds,  one 
pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of 
brov^n  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  cinna- 
mon, cloves,  allspice,  ginger  and  nutmeg,  half  a  pint 
of  brandy  and  wine  mixed  and  one  dozen  eggs.  Boil 
six  hours.  Keep  water  boiling  by  the  side  of  pudding 
boiler  all  the  time  and  continually  refill  as  the  water 
evaporates.  In  preparing  the  pudding  have  all  the 
fruit  stoned  and  cut,  but  not  too  fine,  the  almonds 
blanched  and  chopped.  Incorporate  all  the  ingredi- 
ents well  together  before  adding  the  eggs  and  spirits 
and  beat  the  mixture  well  together  for  at  least  an 
hour — the  longer  the  better. 

SAGO  SOUFFLE. 
A  pint  of  rich  milk,  two  and  a  half  ounces  of  butter, 
one  ounce  and  a  half  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  pearl  sago, 
one  ounce  and  a  half  of  blanched  almonds  chopped 
very  fine.  Mix  all  together,  put  over  the  fire  and 
let  it  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  re- 
move from  the  stove  and  let  it  cool.  Beat  three  eggs 
and  add  a  little  at  a  time  until  all  is  u«ed,  flavor  with 


half  a  teaspoonfiil  of  almond  extract,  put  in  a  pud- 
ding dish  and  bake  half  an  hour.  Sift  a  little  pow- 
dered sugar  over  it  and  serve  immediately  in  the  dish 
in  which  it  is  baked. 

SEMOULINA  PUDDING. 
Put  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk  on  the  fire  to  boil 
with  two  ounces  of  butter,  three  ounces  of  sugar,  an 
ounce  and  a  half  of  sweet  and  two  or  three  bitter 
almonds  blanched  and  chopped  very  fine,  sprinkle 
into  it  three  ounces  of  semoulina  or  farina,  and  boil 
tmtil  quite  stiff,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  turn  into  a  mould  that  has  been  wet  in 
cold  water.  Serve  very  cold  with  fruit  sauce  or 
cream. 

SERNIKY  (a  Russian  Recipe). 

Put  one  ball  of  pot  cheese,  such  as  is  sold  at  a 
creamery  for  five  cents,  in  a  mixing  bowl,  break  it  up 
with  a  spoon,  and  add  to  it  a  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  foUr  eggs,  a  little 
salt,  a  heaping  dessertspoonful  of  currants  and  two 
slightly  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Mix  all  well 
together  and  let  it  stand  an  hour  or  more.  Sprinkle 
a  pastry  board  thickly  with  flour,  turn  the  mixture 
out  from  the  bowl,  cut  off  pieces  of  it  and  roll  with 
the  hands  until  about  an  inch  and  a  half  thick,  cut  in 
pieces  about  two  inches  long,  the  ends  bias.  Have  a 
saucepan  ready  with  boiling  water,  drop  the  pieces 
into  this  without  crowding  and  cook  until  they 
float— about  five  minutes— take  them  out  with  a 
skimmer.  Roll  in  dried  bread  crumbs,  fry  brown  on 
both  sides  in  butter,  and  serve  hot  with  cream  and 
sugar. 

STEAMED  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  one  cup 
of  butter  chopped,  two  cups  and  a  half  of  flour,  one 
cup  of  Porto  Rico  molasses,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  a 

116 


scant  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  teaspoonful  of  cinna- 
mon, and  a  little  nutmeg.  Steam  in  a  mould  two 
hours.    Serve  hot  with  a  sauce. 

SPONGE  CAKE  MERINGUE. 
Butter  w^ell  a  pudding  dish,  cover  the  bottom 
with  slices  of  stale  sponge  cake  about  an  inch  thick, 
fit  closely  together.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
with  three  teaspoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  add  the 
grated  rind  of  half  and  the  juice  of  one  orange,  the 
juice  of  half  a  small  lemon,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter  and  stir  in  soda  as  large  as  a  pea  into 
a  cup  and  a  half  of  milk,  add  this  to  the  orange  and 
Ggg  and  stir  well  together.  Pour  three-quarters  of 
this  mixture  over  the  cake,  set  the  dish  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water  in  the  oven,  and  when  the  cake  has 
absorbed  the  custard  and  no  longer  floats,  add  the 
remainder  of  the  custard.  While  the  pudding  is  bak- 
ing make  a  meringue  of  three  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth  and  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  flavor  with  the  grated  rind  of  half  an 
orange  and  a  few  drops  of  orange  extract.  Spread 
quickly  over  the  pudding  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

PUDDING  OF  STALE  CAKE. 

Almost  any  kind  of  stale  cake  will  do  for  this 
pudding.  To  three  cups  of  the  cake  crumbs  allow  a 
cup  and  a  half  of  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter  and  two  eggs  beaten  light.  Pour  the  milk 
over  the  crumbs  and  let  them  soak  until  soft,  then 
stir  in  the  melted  butter  and  the  eggs,  beat  well  and 
pour  into  a  mould  that  has  been  well  buttered  and 
sprinkled  with  fine  bread  crumbs.  Set  the  mould  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  in  the  oven,  cover  to  prevent 
browning  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve 
hot  with  fruit  or  wine  sauce. 


BAKED  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Soak  a  cup  and  a  half  of  pearl  tapioca  two  hours 
in  a  quart  of  rich  milk,  put  it  in  a  double  boiler  and 
cook  until  the  tapioca  looks  clear,  remove  from  the 
fire,  stir  into  it  two  slightly  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  and  a  scant  half  cup  of  sugar.  When  cold 
add  four  eggs  beaten  light  and  flavor  with  vanilla, 
or  the  rind  of  a  lemon  grated  and  added  when  the 
tapioca  is  cooking.  Butter  a  mould,  sprinkle  w^ith 
dried  bread  crumbs,  turn  the  mixture  into  it  and 
bake.  Turn  out  on  a  platter  and  serve  hot  with  a 
foaming  sauce. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

A  quarter  of  a  cup  of  pearl  tapioca,  a  cup  of 
water,  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  three  even  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract,  two  eggs 
and  a  little  salt.  Soak  the  tapioca  in  the  water  tv^o 
hours,  then  turn  it  into  a  double  boiler  with  the 
milk  ;  when  it  boils,  beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  to  a  cream 
and  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix  a  little  of  the  milk 
with  the  egg,  then  pour  it  into  the  boiler  and  stir  a 
moment  until  thick,  remove  from  the  fire,  add  the 
vanilla  extract  and  stir  in  lightly  the  beaten  whites 
of  eggs.  The  froth  should  show  through  the  custard. 
Serve  very  cold  in  a  glass  bowl. 

STEAMED  RICE. 
Half  a  cup  of  rice,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
one  and  one-third  cups  of  boiling  water.  Put  in 
small  cups  in  a  steamer,  cover  closely  and  steam 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve  w^ith  stewed  fruit 
and  cream  or  sugar  and  cream. 

RICE  CAKE. 
Four  ounces  of  rice,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  six 
eggs,  two  ounces  and  a  half  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of 
almonds  blanched  and  chopped,  two  ounces  of  stoned 


raisins,  a  little  citron,  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
of  dried  bread  crumbs,  and  four  ounces  of  butter. 
Wash  the  rice  and  scald  with  boiling  water,  drain 
and  put  it  into  the  milk,  which  must  be  boiling  on 
the  stove,  cook  until  it  is  stiff  like  mush ;  remove 
from  the  fire  and  stir  into  it  the  butter.  When  it  is 
cool,  add  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  the  sugar,  the 
almonds  chopped  fine,  the  raisins,  a  little  citron  finely 
cut,  and  the  bread  crumbs  dried  and  rolled  fine.  But- 
ter a  mould,  turn  the  cake  into  it  and  bake  one  hour 
in  a  moderate  oven.     Serve  cold. 

BROWN  BREAD  PUDDING. 
Put  in  a  bowl  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  three 
whole  eggs  and  six  and  a  half  ounces  of  sugar;  beat 
together  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  six  and  a  half 
ounces  of  almonds  blanched  and  chopped  fine,  a  dash 
of  cinnamon,  a  tablespoonful  of  chocolate  and  four 
even  tablespoonfuls  of  citron  cut  very  fine ;  then  add 
eight  ounces  and  a  half  of  brown  bread  grated  and 
soaked  in  a  few  spoonfuls  of  claret  or  milk.  Butter  a 
mould,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  pour  the  pudding 
into  it  and  set  it  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour  and  serve  with 
a  sauce. 


Ices. 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM. 
A  quart  of  rich  milk,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar,  eight  egg  yolks  and  a  small  vanilla  bean.  Put 
the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  with  the  vanilla  bean  split 
into  halves  ;  beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  to  a  cream,  stir 
into  the  hot  milk  and  beat  briskly  until  thick,  remove 
from  the  fire,  strain;   when  cold,  freeze, 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM. 
A  quart  of  rich  milk,  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  sugar,  five  ounces  of  coffee,  eight  egg  yolks.  Grind 
the  coffee  and  stir  it  into  half  a  pint  of  boiling  milk, 
set  it  one  side ;  put  the  rest  of  the  milk  in  a  double 
boiler,  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together  until  light, 
stir  into  the  hot  milk,  stir  briskly  until  it  thickens, 
add  the  milk  and  coffee,  turn  it  into  a  bowl  and  let  it 
stand  until  the  last  moment ;   strain  and  freeze. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 
A  pint  of  cream,  a  pint  of  strawberry  puree  and 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Mix  the  sugar 
and  strawberry  puree  together  and  let  it  stand  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  add  the  cream;  pass  it 
through  a  sieve  and  freeze. 

RASPBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 
Follow  the  recipe  for  strawberry  ice  cream,  using 
a  little  less  sugar.    All  kinds  of  fresh  fruit  purees  may 
be  used  for  ice  creams. 

WALNUT  ICE  CREAM. 
Follow  the  recipe  for  vanilla  ice  cream,  adding  a 
cup  of  English  walnuts  chopped  and  pounded  fine  in 
a  mortar,  and  a  little  salt.    When  cold,  freeze. 

120 


ORANGE  ICE. 
Boil  a  quart  of  water  and  a  pound  of  sugar  to- 
gether for  ten  minutes,  skim  and  strain  and  set  aside 
to  get  cold.  Then  add  the  juice  of  twelve  oranges 
and  two  lemons,  put  in  the  freezer;  when  it  com- 
mences to  freeze  stir  in  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE. 

One  quart  of  berries,  one  pound  of  sugar  and 
three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  water.  Sprinkle  the  sugar 
over  the  berries,  stir  well  and  mash  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  strain  and  press  through  a  sieve,  pouring  the 
water  over  it  gradually  until  all  is  used.  Put  into 
the  freezer;  when  it  begins  to  freeze  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  may  be  added. 

WHITE  CURRANT  ICE 
may    be   made   the    same    as    orange    ice,  using    a 
quart    and    a   pint    of  currants,    mashed  and    put 
through  a  sieve,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  more 
sugar. 

PINEAPPLE  ICE. 

One  quart  of  water,  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of 
sugar  boiled  and  skimmed  as  before,  and  the  juice  of 
one  lemon  and  a  large,  perfectly  ripe  pineapple,  care- 
fully peeled  and  shredded  fine  with  a  silver  fork; 
freeze. 

LEMON  ICE. 

One  quart  of  water,  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of 
sugar,  the  juice  of  six  large,  fine  lemons.  Prepare  as 
before,  adding  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  when  it 
begins  to  freeze. 

RASPBERRY  ICE. 

FoUow  the  directions  for  strawberry  ice,  adding 
the  juice  of  two  lemons.  Any  ripe  fruit  may  be  used, 
such  as  peaches,  apricots,  plums  and  red  currants, 
sweetening  as  they  require. 


FROZEN  PUDDING. 
Prepare  a  custard  with  a  quart  of  rich  milk,  a 
pint  of  cream,  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  the  yolks  of 
eight  eggs.  Set  it  on  the  fire  and  stir  constantl3^ 
until  it  begins  to  thicken ;  remove  from  the  fire,  and 
when  it  is  cold  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy, 
one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one  teaspoonful  of  almond 
extract.  Put  in  the  freezer,  and  when  partialh- frozen 
add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  stoned  raisins  that  have 
been  cooked  a  little  in  water  to  soften  them,  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  currants,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
citron  cut  fine.  Freeze  smooth  and  put  in  a  mould 
and  pack  in  ice  and  salt. 

WINDSOR  ROCK  PUNCH. 
For  tw^entj^-four  persons.  Boil  two  quarts  of 
cream  ;  mix  w^ith  it  half  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar 
and  twelve  eggs.  Freeze  the  same  as  ice  cream. 
Take  one-half  of  the  frozen  mixture  and  add  to  it 
two  wineglasses  of  Maraschino,  one  wineglass  of 
Kirsch,  and  one-half  wineglass  of  Santa  Cruz  rum ; 
mix.  When  serving  add  a  small  lump  of  the  frozen 
mixture  to  a  punch  glass  of  the  other,  or  liquid. 


Cakes. 

CAKE  MAKING. 
Have  all  the  ingredients  measured  or  weighed, 
the  pans  lined  with  paper  or  oiled,  the  nuts  or  fruit 
prepared,  and  the  flour  sifted  before  beginning  to 
make  a  cake.  Sift  the  baking  powder  and  cream  of 
tartar  and  soda  with  the  flour  or  a  part  of  it.  Use 
pastry  flour  for  all  cake.  Never  put  all  the  milk  into 
a  cake  batter  bj'  itself,  as  it  curdles  and  makes  a 
coarse  grained  cake,  but  stir  it  in  alternateh^  with 
the  flour.  Put  all  loaves  of  cake  into  a  moderate 
oven,  that  thej^  may  rise  before  beginning  to  bake. 
After  the  cake  rises  the  heat  may  be  increased. 

ANGEL  CAKE. 
The  whites  of  nine  large,  fresh  eggs.  When  they 
are  partly  beaten  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cream 
of  tartar  and  then  finish  beating — the  cream  of  tartar 
makes  them  lighter — then  add  one  and  a  quarter 
cups  of  granulated  sugar,  stir  the  sugar  very  lightly 
into  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Have  flour  sifted  five  times,  measure  a  cup- 
ful and  fold  it  in  very  carefulh',  not  with  a  circular 
motion,  and  do  not  stir  long.  Turn  it  into  a  Turk's 
head  mould  and  bake  forty-five  minutes.  Do  not 
grease  the  mould,  and  when  taken  out  of  the  oven 
invert  it  until  the  cake  is  cold  before  removing  from 
the  pan.  Never  use  a  patent  egg-beater  for  this  cake, 
but  a  whip,  taking  long,  rapid  strokes,  and  make  it 
in  a  large  platter,  not  a  bowl. 


BERLINERKRANDS  (a  Norwegian  Cake). 
Half  a  pound  of  butter  washed  in  two  waters 
and  beaten  to  a  cream,  two  hard-boiled  egg  yolks 
mashed  fine  and  stirred  into  two  raw  egg  3'olks, 
four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar  stirred  into  the  eggs, 
then  mix  all  with  the  butter,  add  a  pound  of  flour 
and  a  wineglass  of  brandy,  mix  well.  Roll  under  the 
hand  and  make  into  small  jumble  cakes  or  krunchens. 
Beat  the  w^hite  of  an  egg,  dip  each  cake  into  it  and 
then  roll  in  granulated  sugar,  bake  a  delicate  brown 
in  a  very  slow  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Grease 
the  tins. 

BLUEBERRY  CAKE. 

Haifa  cup  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream  with  half 
a  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  Porto  Rico  molasses,  one 
cup  of  thin  sour  cream  or  milk,  three  eggs,  the  whites 
and  yolks  beaten  separately,  two  cups  of  berries,  two 
and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda 
sifted  with  the  flour.  Bake  as  soft  gingerbread  and 
serve  hot. 

CINNAMON  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda.  Mix  in  the  usual  way,  but  sifting  the  soda 
and  cream  of  tartar  with  the  flour.  Put  in  a  shallow 
pan,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  bake 
about  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 
One  pint  of  water,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour,  and  ten  eggs.  Boil  the 
water  and  butter  together,  and  while  boiling  stir  in 
the  flour.  Let  it  boil  five  minutes,  then  stir  in  the 
eggs  one  at  a  time  without  beating.  Drop  into  a 
pan  by  spoonfuls — not  close  together — and  bake  in  a 


quick  oven  fifteen  minutes.    When  cold  cut  them  open 
and  fill  with  the  cream. 

Filling. — One  quart  of  milk,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
one  cup  of  flour  and  four  eggs.  Boil  the  milk,  beat 
eggs,  sugar  and  flour  together  and  stir  into  the  milk, 
stir  constantly  until  thick — about  five  minutes — and 
flavor  to  taste. 

LADY  CAKE. 

Half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
half  a  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder,  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  almond  extract.  Beat  the  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream,  stir  the  milk  into  one  cup  of  the 
flour  and  add  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  the 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Sift  the  baking 
powder  and  remaining  cup  of  flour  together,  add  to 
the  other  ingredients  with  the  teaspoonful  of  almond 
extract.  If  baked  in  a  loaf  it  will  require  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour  or  more. 

HONEY  CAKE  (a  Norwegian  Recipe). 
Two  pounds  of  strained  hone^',  three-quarters  of 
a  pound  of  light  brow-n  sugar,  three-quarters  of  an 
ounce  of  bicarbonate  of  potash,  pounded  very  fine 
and  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  one  cup  of  cream,  half 
a  cup  of  melted  butter,  ginger,  cloves  and  pepper  to 
taste,  stir  this  all  well  together,  add  to  it  as  much 
flour  asv^ill  make  it  like  a  thick  mush,  set  it  away  un- 
til the  next  day,  then  turn  it  into  a  well-greased  cake 
mould  and  bake  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

SIMPLE  FRUIT  CAKE. 
Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  three-quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  sifted  flour, 
one-half  pound  of  currants  washed,  one-half  pound  of 
raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  one-half  pound  of  citron 
cut  fine,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  mace,  allspice, 
cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one-half 


cup  of  brandy,  four  eggs  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream ;  add  the  yolks 
of  eggs  beaten  light  with  the  spices  and  brandy;  then 
the  fruit  rolled  in  part  of  the  flour ;  add  the  soda  to 
the  rest  of  the  flour  and  stir  alternately  with  the 
milk  into  the  other  ingredients ;  add  at  the  last  the 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  two 
hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

BAVARIAN  CAKE. 
One-fifth  of  a  pound  of  blanched  and  chopped  al- 
monds, one-fifth  of  a  pound  of  flour,  one-fifth  of  a 
pound  of  sugar,  one-fifth  of  a  pound  of  butter,  two 
eggs,  a  saltspoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  saltspoonful  of 
nutmeg.  Put  the  flour  in  a  mixing  bowl,  then  the 
sugar  and  spices,  the  butter  and  almonds,  break  the 
two  eggs  over  it  all  and  beat  with  a  spoon,  form  into 
a  dough  with  the  hands  and  roll  out  about  an  inch 
thick.  Cut  in  any  shape  liked,  either  round,  square 
or  oblong,  reserving  a  little  for  strips  to  decorate  the 
top.  Spread  with  jam,  either  currant  or  stra\vberr3' 
or  raspberry,  and  lay  the  thin  narrow  strips  of  dough 
across  the  top.  They  should  be  cut  with  a  jagging 
iron.  Bake  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

POUND  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  a  cup  and  a  half  of  flour,  a  cup 
and  a  half  of  granulated  sugar,  six  eggs,  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  flavor  with  almond 
extract  or  any  flavoring  to  suit  the  taste.  Beat  the 
eggs  together  very  light,  then  add  sugar  and  beat 
again.  Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  together, 
beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  stir  the  flour  into  it, 
and  then  add  the  eggs  and  sugar  and  flavoring. 

SPONGE  CAKE.-NO.  U 
Twelve  eggs,  the  weight  of  ten  in  powdered  sugar, 
the  weight  of  six  in  sifted  flour,  the  grated  rind  and 

126 


juice  of  one  lemon.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a 
cream,  add  the  sugar  and  stir  well,  and  then  the 
lemon  juice  and  rind.  Add  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  fold  in  the  flour  as  quickly  and 
lightly  as  possible. 

SPONGE  CAKE.-NO.  2. 
Four  cups  of  flour,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  cold  water,  eight  eggs,  two  even  tablespoonfuls  of 
baking  po\vder,  the  grated  peel  of  an  orange.  Pour 
the  water  on  the  sugar  in  a  bowl,  stir  until  almost 
dissolved,  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  the  yolks 
to  a  cream,  put  one  cup  of  flour  with  the  \'olks  into 
the  sugar  and  water,  beat  hard,  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  mix  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour,  and 
stir  into  the  other  ingredients  by  degrees  quickh^  and 
lightly.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  in  a  quick  oven. 
When  it  no  longer  sizzles  it  is  done.  Ice  with  a  boiled 
icing  while  hot,  flavored  with  almond  extract. 

CORN  SPONGE  CAKE  (a  Spanish  Recipe). 
Half  a  pound  of  corn  meal,  half  a  pound  of  butter, 
seven  ounces  of  granulated  sugar,  seven  eggs,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  Catalan  (brandy).  Beat  separately 
the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  ;  when  the  yolks  are 
beaten  to  a  cream  add  the  sugar,  then  the  whites  of 
eggs,  stir  the  corn  meal  in  lightly,  then  the  butter 
melted,  and  the  brandy.  Mix  well,  pour  into  shallow 
pans  well  buttered,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes,  test  with  a  straw. 
Best  when  quite  fresh. 

SPICED  GINGERBREAD. 
One  cup  of  Porto  Rico  molasses,  one  cup  of  boil- 
ing water,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  ground  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 
one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  a  light  half  pound  of  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  cup 


of  brown  sugar.  Melt  the  butter  and  stir  into  the 
molasses,  add  the  spices,  then  the  water.  Sift  the 
soda  with  the  flour  and  add  at  the  last.  Currants 
and  raisins  stoned  and  chopped  may  be  added  and 
are  an  improvement.  The  cake  may  be  baked  in  a 
loaf  or  in  small  moulds. 

CREAM  GINGERBREAD. 
One  cup  of  Porto  Rico  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour 
cream,  two  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one  even  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  one  egg,  a  little  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nut- 
meg, two  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar.  Beat  the 
egg,  sugar  and  spice  together,  add  the  molasses  and 
one  cup  of  flour,  then  the  cream,  after  that  the  other 
cup  of  flour  with  the  soda  sifted  together.  It  should 
be  a  thick  batter,  and  if  not  thick  enough  add  a  little 
more  flour — not  more  than  half  a  cup.  Bake  in  a 
shallow  pan.  When  done  the  cake  should  be  about 
two  inches  thick.    Ice  with  boiled  icing. 

GINGER  SPONGE  CAKE. 
Half  a  cup  of  milk,  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  a  third  of  a  cup  of  butter,  a  cup  and  a 
half  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 
a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  sifted  together 
with  the  flour,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  cloves.     Bake  in  a  shallow  pan. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 
One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  three  and  a  half 
cups  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  five  eggs, 
ginger,  allspice,  cloves  and  cinnamon  to  taste.  Beat 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  stir  in  the  molasses  and 
spice,  add  a  cup  of  the  flour,  then  part  of  the  milk, 
mix  the  soda  with  the  rest  of  the  flour  and  stir  in  al- 


ternately  with  the  milk.     Bake  in  shallow  pans  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

GINGER  CAKES. 
Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  three-quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  one  pound  of 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  two  even  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  soda  sifted  with  the  flour.  Mix  well  together. 
Roll  out,  cut  in  small  round  cakes,  brush  over  with 
white  of  egg,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  finely 
chopped  almonds.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

GINGER  SNAPS.-N0.  U 
Rub  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  a 
pound  of  sifted  flour  and  mix  in  half  a  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  add  six  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger,  one 
teaspoonful  of  powdered  cloves,  and  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  cinnamon,  stir  in  a  pint  of  Porto  Rico  mo- 
lasses and  the  grated  peel  of  a  large  lemon,  add  at 
the  last  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  tepid 
water.  Beat  the  mixture  hard  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  make  it  into  a  lump  of  dough  just  stiff  enough 
to  roll.    Cut  in  small  cakes  and  bake  in  a  moderate 

oven. 

GINGER  SNAPS —No.  2. 

One  pint  of  Porto  Rico  molasses,  one  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  two  pounds  of 
flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger,  two  of  cinna- 
mon, half  a  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  a  teaspoonful 
of  nutmeg  and  half  an  ounce  of  soda.  Beat  butter 
and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  spice  and  molasses, 
mix  the  soda  with  half  of  the  flour  and  stir  all  to- 
gether. Roll  thin,  cut  in  small  cakes  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

HARD  GINGERBREAD. 

Two  cups  of  Porto  Rico  molasses,  one  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
ginger,  flour  to  make  the  dough  stiff"  enough  to  roll. 


It  requires  to  be  kneaded  thorotighly.  It  is  better 
that  the  dough  be  made  the  daj-  before  the  cakes  are 
to  be  baked  that  it  may  dr^^  a  Httle,  as  they  are 
spoiled  if  too  much  flour  is  added.  Roll  thin,  cut  in 
oblong  cakes  with  a  jagging  iron,  or  in  any  way  to 
suit  the  fancy. 

BRANDY  SNAPS. 

One  pound  of  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter, a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  three-quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  maple  syrup.  Mix  the  ingredients 
well  together  and  drop  on  greased  paper ;  if  it  runs 
too  much  add  flour,  if  not  enough  add  more  maple 

svrup. 

PEPPER  NUTS.-NO.  U 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of 

sugar,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  three  eggs,  two  even 

teaspoonfuls  of  soda  sifted  with  the  flour,  pepper  to 

taste.    Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  sugar  and 

beat  very  light,  then  the  eggs  and  flour.   Roll  out  and 

cut  in  small,  round  cakes,  bake  a  light  brown.     They 

will  keep  a  long  time. 

PEPPER  NUTS— No.  2. 
Half  a  pound  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  then 
add  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  three  egg 
yolks  beaten  light,  half  a  cup  of  cream,  two  ounces  of 
almonds  chopped  very  fine,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
almond  extract,  a  little  fine  cut  citron,  and  one  pound 
of  flour  sifted  with  an  even  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Mix 
well  together,  roll  out  and  cut  in  small,  round  cakes 
and  bake  a  light  brown. 

TEA  CAKES. 
One  pint  of  cream,  four  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
granulated  sugar,  two  eggs,  a  little  cinnamon ;  beat 
well  together  and  stir  into  it  enough  flour  to  roll. 
Roll  out  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  brush  over 
with  white  of  egg  and  sift  sugar  and  cinnamon  over 


it,  cut  into  cakes  about  a  finger  long  and  one  inch 
wide.    Bake  a  delicate  brown. 

FIG  CAKE. 

Haifa  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
half  a  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  two  rounded 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  the  whites  of  four 
eggs.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  stir  the 
milk  and  one  cup  of  the  flour  together  and  add  to  the 
butter  and  sugar.  Sift  the  remaining  cup  of  flour  and 
the  baking  powder  together,  beat  the  whites  of  egg 
to  a  stiifif  froth  and  stir  alternately  with  the  flour  into 
the  other  ingredients.  Grease  three  layer  cake  tins 
well,  divide  the  batter  evenly  and  bake  from  seven  to 
ten  minutes. 

Filling. — Boil  without  stirring  until  it  is  clear 
one  cup  of  sugar  wet  with  a  little  water;  remove 
from  the  fire  and  stir  into  it  three-quarters  of  a  cup 
of  figs  chopped  fine  and  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  cur- 
rants, washed  and  dried.  Spread  two  of  the  layers 
with  this,  put  them  together  and  ice  top  and  sides 
with  a  plain  icing  made  as  follows :  The  whites  of 
two  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth  and  one  and  a  half  cups 
of  pow^dered  sugar  stirred  into  it  and  flavored  with 
almond  extract. 

GINGER  LAYER  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  Porto  Rico  molasses, 
one  cup  of  milk,  the  third  of  a  cup  of  butter,  one  egg, 
one  slightly  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda  sifted  with 
the  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one  cup 
of  currants.  Beat  the  egg  a  little,  add  the  molasses 
with  the  butter  melted  and  stirred  into  it,  then  the 
currants,  about  half  the  milk,  all  of  the  flour,  beat 
well  and  add  the  rest  of  the  milk.  Bake  in  two  cakes 
in  a  quick  oven  from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes.  Use 
the  chocolate  filling,  given  for  chocolate  la3^er  cake, 
and  ice  the  top  and  the  sides  with  the  same. 

131 


ORANGE  CAKE. 

Beat  to  a  cream  the  3^olks  of  four  eggs  with  one 
cup  of  granulated  sugar,  to  which  add  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one-half  cup  of  milk 
alternately  with  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sifted  flour 
into  which  a  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  baking  pow- 
der has  been  well  mixed.  Beat  well  and  bake  in  three 
layers  if  the  pans  are  large,  or  four  if  small,  in  a  quick 
oven  from  seven  to  ten  minutes,  try  with  a  broom 
straw,  and  when  it  comes  out  clean  remove  from  the 
oven.  Don't  let  them  bake  a  moment  too  long,  or 
the^^  will  not  absorb  the  icing. 

Filling. — The  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth,  to  which  add  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 
pouring  it  in  all  at  once  and  beating  hard,  then  the 
grated  rind  of  an  orange — select  one  dark  in  color — 
and  the  juice.  The  mixture  should  be  like  a  thick 
cream.  Spread  thickh'  on  the  cake  while  hot,  and  to 
what  is  left  add  enough  sugar — about  half  a  cupful — 
for  frosting  to  harden.  Ice  the  top  and  sides.  This 
is  a  delicious  cake,  easily  and  quickly  made. 

PINEAPPLE  CAKE. 

Make  the  cake  by  the  same  recipe  as  for  orange 
cake.    Bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling. — The  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth  and  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Grate 
enough  fresh  pineapple  to  have  three-quarters  of  a 
cup  of  fruit.  Strain,  add  the  juice  to  the  whites  of 
eggs  and  sugar.  Divide  it,  and  into  one  part  add  the 
fruit  strained  from  the  juice.  Use  this  for  the  fiUing. 
To  the  rest  beat  in  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  almond  extract,  and  ice  the  top  and  sides 
of  the  cake.  It  should  be  done  while  the  cake  is  hot. 
This,  as  well  as  the  orange  cake,  will  keep  in  tin  fresh 
for  a  week. 


CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE. 

Half  a  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three 
whole  eggs,  or  the  whites  of  six,  one  cup  of  milk, 
three  cups  of  flour,  two  even  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of 
tartar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Beat  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  eggs  beaten  together,  sift 
the  cream  of  tartar  and  soda  in  the  flour,  add  the 
flour  alternately  with  the  milk.  Bake  in  four  or  five 
layers. 

Chocolate  Filling.— Take  two  unbeaten  whites 
of  eggs  and  a  cup  and  a  half  of  powdered  sugar  and 
beat  them  together.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  smooth 
and  glossy  two  ounces  of  Baker's  unsweetened  choc- 
olate grated,  with  half  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  remove  from 
the  fire  and  stir  while  hot  into  the  eggs  and  sugar, 
and  when  it  is  cool  spread  the  top  and  sides,  and  set 
the  cake  in  the  oven  for  a  moment  to  dry  the  icing. 

POOR  MAN'S  CAKE  (a  Norwegian  Recipe). 

Twenty  yolks  of  eggs,  five  whites  of  eggs,  a 
pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  sweet 
cream  or  rich  milk,  a  sherry  glass  of  cognac,  one  cup 
of  melted  butter,  a  little  pounded  cardamom  seed, 
and  enough  flour  to  roll  thin.  Beat  the  eggs  to- 
gether until  light,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  again,  then 
the  cream,  cognac  and  butter.  Melt  the  butter  and 
pour  off  from  the  salt.  Cinnamon  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  cardamom  seed.  Roll  the  dough  as  thin  as 
paper,  cut  with  a  jagging  iron  in  oblong  pieces,  slit 
one  end  with  the  iron  and  pass  the  other  end  through 
it.  Fry  in  boiling  fat,  drain  on  paper,  and  when  per- 
fectly cold  put  in  a  stone  jar.  These  cakes  will  keep 
for  months. 

VENISON  CAKES  (a  Norwegian  Recipe). 

Six  eggs  beaten  light  wnth  three-Cjuarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  cream  or  rich  milk, 

133 


a  pound  and  a  half  of  flour.  When  these  ingredients 
are  well  mixed  add  four  ounces  of  well  washed  but- 
ter, stir  well  together.  Mix  with  the  flour  a  little  less 
than  an  even  teaspoonful  of  ammonia,  powdered 
fine — the  cakes  will  rise  better — and  flavor  with  car- 
damom or  cinnamon.  Roll  the  dough  with  the  hands 
until  about  the  thickness  of  the  little  finger,  cut  in 
pieces  about  three  inches  long — the  ends  bias — lap 
them  and  snip  with  scissors  or  a  knife  around  the 
outside  to  make  points,  then  fry  in  boiling  fat  as 
crullers.     These  also  keep  a  long  time. 

SEED  CAKES. 
A  cup  and  a  half  of  granulated  sugar,  a  cup  and 
a  half  of  butter,  four  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  cara- 
way seed  and  flour  to  roll.  Beat  the  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  yolks  beaten  light,  then 
the  caraway  seed.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  add  alternately  with  the  flour — do  not 
make  the  dough  stiff.  Roll  thin,  cut  in  small  cakes 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

DROP  CAKES. 

A  cup  of  butter,  a  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  four 
eggs,  a  pint  of  flour,  a  cup  of  currants,  half  a  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Drop 
with  a  teaspoon  on  greased  pans  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  ten  minutes. 

LEBKUCHEN. 

Haifa  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  half  a  pound  of 
strained  honey,  half  a  pound  of  candied  orange  peel, 
half  a  pound  of  citron,  half  a  pound  of  almonds 
blanched  and  cut  fine,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  bicar- 
bonate of  potash  pounded  very  fine  and  a  sherry 
glass  of  rum  poured  over  it  twenty-four  hours  before 
it  is  used,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  an  even  tea- 
spoonful of  cinnamon,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  pow- 


dered  cardamom  seed,  the  rindof  half  a  lemon  grated, 
and  two  eggs.  Put  the  honey  in  a  saucepan  and  let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  pour  it  over  the  sugar  in  a  mixing 
bowl  and  stir  well,  then  add  the  flour,  mix  thorough- 
ly, and  set  in  a  cool  place  for  twenty-four  hours. 
Then  cut  all  the  fruit  fine  and  mix  with  the  other 
ingredients  thoroughly,  beat  the  eggs  and  add  to  the 
mixture,  put  in  the  rum  and  potash  last,  stir  well, 
and  let  it  stand  for  an  hour  or  two.  Roll  the  dough 
out  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  cakes 
about  three  inches  wide  .and  five  long,  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Do  not  use  more  than 
two  ounces  of  flour  in  rolling  out  the  cakes.  Ice  them 
while  hot. 

Icing. — Half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon  and  the  same  quantity  of  w^ater  as  of 
lemon  juice ;  stir  together  and  spread  on  very  thin. 

MACAROONS  (a  Bavarian  Recipe). 
Blanch  and  chop  fine  half  a  pound  of  almonds. 
Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  then  the  nuts.  Drop  from 
a  small  spoon  on  parafiine  paper  on  a  baking  sheet 
and  bake  a  delicate  brown  in  a  cool  oven. 

CHOCOLATE  MACAROONS  (a  Bavarian  Recipe). 
Tw^o  ounces  of  almonds  chopped  fine,  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in  six  ounces 
of  sugar  and  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  grated  chocolate, 
then  add  the  almonds.     Bake  in  a  cool  oven. 

SODA  CAKES. 
Three  egg  yolks,  a  pint  and  a  halfof  cream,  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  an  even  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  one  pound  and  a  halfof  sugar,  and  flour  enough 
to  roll.  Roll  very  thin  and  cut  in  small  cakes ;  put 
half  a  blanched  almond  in  the  middle  of  each.  Bake 
in  a  slow  oven. 


WALNUT  WAFERS. 

Beat  two  eggs  very  light  and  add  to  them  half  a 
pound  of  brown  sugar ;  beat  again  and  stir  in  half  a 
cup  of  flour  with  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  a  third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  a 
cup  of  walnut  meats  slightly  chopped.  Drop  in  small 
spoonfuls  on  buttered  tins,  not  too  close  together, 
and  bake  brown.  The  dough  should  not  be  too  thin ; 
try  one  or  two  and  if  too  thin  add  a  very  little  more 
flour. 

JODE   CAKES  (a  Norwegian  Recipe). 

Three  egg  yolks,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cream,  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  an  even  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  and  flour  enough 
to  roll.  Roll  very  thin  and  cut  in  small  cakes  ;  put 
half  a  blanched  almond  in  the  middle  of  each.  Bake 
in  a  slow  oven. 

FROSTING. 

Three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar  to  the 
white  of  one  egg,  flavoring  to  taste.  Beat  the  white 
of  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  turn  all  the  sugar  into  it; 
see  that  the  sugar  is  free  from  lumps,  beat  hard  and 
flavor  according  to  the  cake. 

BOILED  ICING. 
One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  five  tablespoonfuls 
of  Doiling  w^ater,  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Put  the  sugar  and  water  over  the  fire  and 
boil  until  it  threads  from  the  spoon ;  then  turn  it  into 
the  beaten  egg,  beat  briskly  for  a  few  minutes,  flavor 
with  vanilla,  lemon  or  almond,  according  to  the  cake. 
While  the  cake  is  still  warm,  sprinkle  with  flour  and 
spread  the  icing  on  with  a  broad  knife. 


Pies. 

PLAIN  PASTRY. 
Four  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one  cup  of  butter,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  ice  water  and  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs.  This  quantity  will  make  two  pies.  Rub  the 
butter,  flour,  salt  and  sugar  together  thoroughly, 
then  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  lemon  juice  and  water 
and  work  all  together  into  a  paste.  Put  the  dough 
on  a  pastry  board,  divide  in  four  equal  parts,  roll 
each  part  the  size  required  for  the  pie  plates. 

PUFF  PASTE. 
One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  butter  and  one 
cup  of  ice  water.  Sift  the  flour,  weigh  it  and  turn 
into  a  mixing  bowl ;  pour  the  water  gradually  into 
it,  stirring  constantly  with  a  spoon  ;  turn  the  dough 
out  on  the  pastry  board  and  beat  or  knead  it  until  it 
blisters  and  is  so  elastic  that  it  can  be  stretched 
without  tearing.  Then  set  it  away  on  ice.  Wash 
the  butter,  squeeze  out  the  salt  and  water  and  lay  it 
on  a  plate  on  ice.  Roll  the  dough  as  nearly  square 
as  possible,  lay  the  butter  in  the  center  of  it,  fold 
over  one  side  of  the  paste,  then  the  other,  flatten 
slightly  with  the  rolling  pin,  fold  over  the  ends  of 
the  dough  until  they  meet ;  turn  the  dough  over  and 
roll  twice,  fold  again  and  put  the  paste  on  the  ice ; 
let  it  remain  for  twenty  minutes.  Repeat  this  twice, 
allowing  the  pastry  to  rest  twenty  minutes  each 
time.  This  makes  in  all  six  rolls  and  three  times  of 
rohing.  Press  very  lightly  with  the  rolling  pin,  cut 
off  each  time  what  is  needed  for  a  pie  or  number  of 


patties,  that  the  dough  will  not  be  worked  over 
more  than  is  necessary.  The  trimmings  may  be 
used  for  cheese  straws  by  cutting  and  sprinkling 
them  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  a  dash  of 
cayenne  pepper;  or  may  be  baked  in  crescents  for 
garnishing.  In  baking,  rinse  the  pans  with  cold 
water  and  brush  the  pastry  over  with  beaten  egg. 
Make  the  pastry  in  a  cool  room. 

TO  MAKE  ONE  SQUASH  OR  PUMPKIN  PIE. 
One  cup  of  squash,  one  egg  mixed  unbeaten  with 
the  squash,  a  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  one  milk 
cracker  rolled  fine,  half  a  teaspoonful  each  of  ginger, 
cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  dash  of 
cayenne  pepper.  After  these  are  well  mixed,  add  half 
a  cup  of  milk.     Bake  in  either  puff  or  plain  paste. 

SWEET  RISSOLES. 
Roll  out  some  puff  paste  into  a  thin  sheet,  cut  as 
many  rounds  w^ith  a  large  patty  cutter  as  are 
needed;  put  a  spoonful  of  any  kind  of  jam,  straw- 
berry, raspberry,  currant,  etc.,  or  mince  meat  or 
puree  of  apples  on  each,  moisten  the  edges  of  the 
pastry  with  water,  fold  one -half  over  the  other, 
making  them  into  half  moons,  brush  with  beaten 
egg  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  They  may  be  varied 
by  sifting  coarse  sugar  and  nuts  over  them  before 

baking. 

RICHMOND  MAIDS  OF  HONOR. 

Half  a  pound  of  dry  curd,  commonly  called  cot- 
tage or  pot  cheese,  six  ounces  of  butter,  four  eggs,  a 
glass  of  brandy,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  one  white  po- 
tato, one  ounce  of  sweet  almonds  chopped  fine  and 
a  few  drops  of  almond  extract,  the  juice  of  one  and 
the  grated  rind  of  two  lemons,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 
Mix  the  curds  and  butter  together,  beat  sugar  and 
eggs  to  a  cream,  add  the  potato  mashed  smooth  and 
fine,  the  almonds,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  lemon 


and  the  nutmeg ;  beat  well  and  add  to  the  curds  and 
butter,  mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in  tartlet  pans  or 
pie  plates  lined  with  puff  paste. 

CHEESE  CAKES. 
Put  a  pint  of  milk  on  to  boil,  beat  four  eggs  light 
and  stir  into  the  milk ;  when  it  is  a  thick  curd  remove 
from  the  fire  and  when  cool  mash  it  very  fine,  add  to 
it  four  ounces  of  breadcrumbs.  Beat  to  a  cream  half 
a  pound  of  butter  and  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  add  the 
curds  and  bread ;  beat  four  eggs  until  very  thick  and 
light  and  pour  them  into  this  mixture ;  then  add 
gradually  one  tablespoonful  of  sherry  and  one  of 
brandy  and  one  of  rose-water,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon,  and  lastly  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cur- 
rants well  washed.  Line  either  pie  plates  or  shallow 
cake  pans  with  puff  paste,  pour  in  the  mixture  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.  They  should  be  served  cold 
and  eaten  the  day  they  are  baked. 

COCOANUT  PIE  (a  Southern  Recipe). 
One  cup  of  freshly-grated  cocoanut,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  three  eggs,  half  a  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind, 
one-half  cup  of  cream,  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  one- 
half  cup  of  cocoanut  milk.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to 
a  cream,  add  other  ingredients,  the  j^olks  of  eggs  beat- 
en very  light  with  the  cream,  the  lemon  juice  and  rind 
and  lasth^  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff"  froth. 
Line  a  dish  with  puff  paste,  pour  the  mixture  in  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

LEMON  PIE  (a  Southern  Recipe). 
The  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  cream  with  one 
cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  the  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon.  Peel  the  lemon,removing  every  particle  of  white 
skin,  cut  into  thin  slices;  have  a  pie  plate  lined  with 
puff  paste,  arrange  the  slices  of  lemon  on  the  paste, 
add  enough  milk  to  the  eggs  and  sugar  to  fill  the 


plate,  pour  it  in,  and  bake  until  set.  Beat  the 
w^hites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  in  two  large 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  put  on  top  of  the 
pie  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

MINCE  MEAT. 
One  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  one  pound  of 
raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  half  a  pound  of  citron, 
half  a  dozen  lemons,  grated  rind  and  juice,  the  pulp  of 
eight  oranges,  the  grated  rind  of  three,  half  a  pound 
of  almonds  blanched  and  chopped,  three  pounds  of 
greenings,  after  they  are  pared,  cored  and  chopped 
fine,  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  cinna- 
mon, an  even  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  a  quarter  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  cloves,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  incited,  a  cup  and 
a  half  of  sherry  and  a  cup  of  brandy.  Seed  the  rai- 
sins and  soak  them  with  the  currants  in  just 
water  enough  to  cover,  stew  until  tender,  and 
add  when  cold  wdth  the  water  to  the  other  ingredi- 
ents. Mix  thoroughly,  stirring  in  the  melted  butter 
at  the  last.  Let  it  stand  for  several  days.  The 
brandy  and  wane  may  be  omitted  and  more  lemons 
and  oranges  used  to  flavor  it.  At  each  baking  it  is 
well  to  add  a  little  sugar  and  chopped  apple.  This 
will  keep  all  w^inter  or  longer  in  a  cool  place,  if  the 
brandy  and  wine  are  not  omitted. 


Candies, 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS— No.  I. 
Six  pounds  of  light  brown  sugar,  one  pound  of 
butter,  one  pound  of  chocolate,  one  pint  of  cream, 
one  pint  of  milk,  paraffine  as  large  as  a  walnut,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Flavor  with  vanilla. 
Put  all  the  ingredients  together  and  boil  until  it  is 
brittle  in  water ;  flavor  and  pour  into  buttered  tins 
and  mark  in  squares  before  it  is  quite  cold. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS.— No.  2. 
One  pint  of  fresh  milk,  three  ounces  of  chocolate, 
grated,  two  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Stir  until  melted,  then 
add  half  a  pint  of  cream,  cook  until  the  mixture  is 
brittle  in  ice  water,  then  turn  into  a  pan  well  greased 
and  mark  in  squares  when  almost  cold. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS.-No.  3. 
A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  chocolate,  grated,  one 
large  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk  and  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Boil  all  together,  stir- 
ring all  the  time,  until  the  syrup  hardens  in  cold 
water,  and  just  before  taking  from  the  fire  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla.  Beat  the  syrup  as  soon  as  re- 
moved from  the  fire,  and  keep  it  up  until  it  is  too  stiff 
to  beat  any  longer — if  it  is  beaten  a  minute  and  a 
half  it  will  do  well.  Turn  out  of  the  saucepan  into  a 
greased  pan  and  before  it  is  quite  cold  cut  in  squares. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  PEPPERMINTS. 
Mix  together  two  cups  of  granulated  sugar  and 
half  a  cup  of  cream,  boil  until  it  holds  well  together 

141 


in  cold  water,  or  can  be  rolled  between  the  fingers, 
flavor  with  oil  of  peppermint,  remove  from  the  fire 
and  stir  until  the  cream  is  stiff  enough  to  mould  into 
balls.  Use  powdered  sugar  on  the  hands  while 
moulding.  Melt  an  ounce  of  chocolate  and  dip  the 
balls,  w^hich  should  be  as  large  as  hazel  nuts,  in  this, 
using  a  long  pin  for  the  purpose,  and  lay  them  on 
paraffine  paper.  Any  flavoring  may  be  used  instead 
of  peppermint. 

CANDY  (to  PuU). 

Two  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  half  a  cup  of 
water,  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  butter  the  size 
of  a  w^alnut.  Boil  the  sugar  and  w^ater  without  stir- 
ring until  it  is  brittle  v^hen  tried  in  cold  water,  add 
the  butter  and  vinegar  just  before  it  is  done.  Flavor 
with  anj^  extract  preferred,  pour  into  buttered  soup 
plates,  and  when  cool  enough  to  handle  pull  until 
white. 

CHESTNUTS  GLACE. 

Skin  the  chestnuts  and  cover  with  cold  water,  let 
them  cook  gently  until  tender,  when  a  large  needle 
can  be  run  through  them  easily.  Drain  and  drop 
them  in  cold  water.  After  two  hours  drain  again 
and  put  them  in  a  bowl,  cover  them  w^ith  a  rich  syrup 
that  has  been  skimmed  and  boiled  until  clear.  It 
must  be  boiling  when  poured  over  the  chestnuts. 
Cover  the  bowl  with  a  heav}^  paper  and  let  it  stand 
for  twelve  hours,  drain  off  the  syrup,  bring  it  to  the 
boiling  point  and  turn  it  over  the  chestnuts  again 
and  put  aw^aj^  for  another  twelve  hours.  Repeat  this 
process  three  times,  then  drain  the  syrup  ofl"  and  the 
chestnuts  are  ready  for  use.  Use  the  large  imported 
chestnuts,  remove  the  shells  and  boil  the  nuts.  The 
brown  skin  can  then  be  easily  removed  with  a  pen- 
knife. They  are  very  nice  but  very  troublesome  to 
prepare. 

142 


COCOANUT  CAKES. 
One  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  half  a  pound  of 
grated  cocoanut,  half  a  cup  of  water  and  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Boil  the  sugar  and 
water  together  until,  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  it 
can  be  rolled  between  the  fingers  into  a  ball.  Re- 
move from  the  fire,  stir  with  a  A^'ooden  spoon  until  it 
becomes  w^hite  and  thick  like  cream,  add  the  cocoa- 
nut,  stir  well  and  drop  with  the  spoon  on  parafiine 
paper  or  a  tin  baking  sheet,  and  form  into  thin 
round  cakes.    Set  away  to  dry. 

HOARHOUND  CANDY. 

Put  a  tablespoonful  of  dried  hoarhound  leaves  in 
a  cup  and  pour  over  them  half  a  cupful  of  boiling 
water,  cover  and  let  it  steep  until  cold,  strain  and 
pour  it  over  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Boil  without  stirring,  and 
if  any  scum  rises  to  the  top  remove  it.  Test  the 
candy  in  cold  water,  when  brittle  remove  from  the 
fire  and  pour  into  a  buttered  pan.  Mark  into 
squares  before  it  is  cold,  or  break  into  irregular 
pieces. 

MARSHMALLOWS. 

Pow^der  very  fine  eight  ounces  of  gum  arable, 
dissolve  it  in  three  gills  of  water  over  a  slow  fire  and 
strain.  Simmer  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  marshmal- 
low  roots  in  two  gills  of  water,  for  ten  minutes, 
closely  covered.  Strain  and  reduce  to  one  gill.  Add 
this  w^ith  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  the  dissolved 
gum.  Boil  until  it  becomes  a  thick  paste,  stirring 
constantly.  Add  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract.  Re- 
move from  the  fire,  pour  into  a  pan  dusted  thickly 
with  cornstarch  and  when  cool  cut  into  squares 
with  a  sharp  knife,  roll  in  pulverized  sugar  and  pack 
in  a  tin  box. 


NOUGAT. 
A  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  cup  of  blanched  and  finely  chopped  al- 
monds or  peanuts,  or  it  may  be  made  of  mixed  nuts. 
Dissolve  the  sugar  in  a  spider  over  the  fire  without 
water,  stirring  constantly,  and  when  entireh^  melted 
mix  in  the  nuts  quickly  and  pour  at  once  into  a  well 
greased  pan,  and  before  it  is  cold  mark  in  squares. 
This  is  very  nice  pounded  fine  in  a  mortar  or  ground 
in  a  mill  to  sprinkle  over  custards  just  before  serving. 

PANOCHE  (a  Spanish  Recipe). 

Two  cups  of  dark  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  chopped 
walnuts,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut.  Cook  the  sugar  and  milk  together,  boiling 
gently  from  seven  to  ten  minutes,  until,  when  tried 
in  water,  it  holds  well  together,  and  can  be  rolled 
into  a  soft  ball.  Remove  from  the  fire.  Have  the 
chopped  nuts  in  a  large  bowl,  pour  over  them  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  extract,  pour  the  candy  over 
them  and  beat  with  long,  rapid  strokes  until  it  be- 
gins to  thicken — it  should  be  like  a  cream  wafer- 
turn  out  on  paraffine  paper,  and  break  it  or  cut  in 
pieces. 

PEPPERMINT  DROPS. 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  cold 
water,  a  tiny  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar.  Boil  ten 
minutes  without  stirring,  let  the  sugar  melt  slowly 
that  it  may  not  burn.  Add  eight  drops  of  oil  of  pep- 
permint ^"hile  still  on  the  fire.  When  removed  from 
the  stove  beat  with  an  egg-beater  until  it  falls  in 
long  drops,  when  drop  quickty  on  parafline  paper. 

PRALINES. 
Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  of 
water,  two  cups  of  pecans,  hickory  nuts  or  English 
walnuts.     Put  the  water  and  sugar  on  to  boil,  let  it 


cook  without  stirring  until  it  threads,  remove  from 
the  fire  and  stir  in  the  nuts  until  they  are  sugared. 
Spread  on  paraffine  paper  to  cool. 

VASSAR  FUDGE. 
Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  squares  or  one  ounce  of 
Baker's  unsweetened  chocolate,  a  scant  cup  of  milk, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil  for  ten  minutes 
until  it  holds  well  together  when  dropped  in  cold 
water.  Take  from  the  fire,  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla  extract,  beat  from  three  to  five  minutes 
until  thick  and  creamy,  turn  into  a  buttered  pan  and 
cut  in  squares. 


r^reserves, 

PRESERVE  OF  MIXED  FRUITS. 
Five  pounds  of  ripe  currants  or  cherries,  five 
pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  two  pounds  of  seeded 
raisins,  the  pulp  of  six  oranges  cut  in  small  pieces, 
and  the  rind  of  two  oranges  cut  fine.  Boil  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Grapes  can  be  used  instead  of 
currants  or  cherries. 

RED  CURRANT  JAM. 
Pick  the  currants  from  the  stems,  weigh  them,  and 
allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  the  fruit.  Put  the  currants  in  a  preserving 
kettle,  mash  them  a  little  to  prevent  them  from  stick- 
ing to  the  kettle,  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  then 
add  the  sugar  and  boil  rapidly  for  ten  minutes. 
Bottle  and  seal  tight. 

RED  CURRANT  JELLY. 
Berries  for  jelly  must  be  picked  "when  the  weather 
is  dry.  Pick  them  over,  taking  out  all  leaves,  etc., 
put  them  in  the  kettle  and  mash  them  a  little  to  get 
enough  juice  to  keep  them  from  burning;  stir  con- 
stantly, and  as  soon  as  hot  wring  them  dry  through 
a  cheese  cloth.  Measure  the  liquid  and  to  every  pint 
of  juice  allow  one  pound  of  sugar.  Put  the  juice  on 
the  fire  and  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  sugar 
and  boil  fifteen  minutes  more,  skimming  thoroughly. 
Pour  into  glasses  while  hot ;  let  them  stand  until  the 
next  day  and  cover.  Very  often  jelly  is  soft,  and 
alw^ays  from  one  of  two  reasons :  either  the  berries 
have  been  picked  immediately  after  a  rain  or  the 
sugar  is  adulterated. 


RED  CURRANT  SYRUP. 
The  currants  must  be  fresh  and  perfectly  ripe  and 
picked  in  dry  weather.  Wash  and  put  them  in  either 
a  porcelain-lined  or  a  granite-ware  kettle,  stir  until 
they  are  tender,  as  for  currant  jelly,  then  remove  from 
the  fire  and  wring  them  as  dry  as  possible  in  a  cheese 
cloth.  Measure  the  juice  and  return  it  to  the  fire,  let 
it  cook  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  a  poimd  of  granu- 
lated sugar  to  each  quart  of  juice,  boil  gently  fifteen 
minutes,  skimming  as  long  as  the  scum  rises.  Bottle 
and  cork  well  and  keep  in  a  dark  place.  Raspberry 
and  strawberry  syrup  are  made  in  the  same  way, 
only  mashing  and  straining  the  fruit  and  measuring 
the  juice  before  cooking. 

BLACK  CURRANT  SYRUP. 
Pick  from  the  stems  and  mash  them,  a  few  at  a 
time,  in  a  bowl  or  granite  saucepan  with  a  potato 
masher,  then  put  them  in  a  stone  jar  and  let  then? 
stand  for  two  days,  stirring  well  each  day.  Wrin;^ 
them  through  a  cheese  cloth,  and  if  wanted  sweet 
cook  with  sugar  as  red  currant  syrup.  The  juice  can 
be  bottled  without  sugar  or  cooking,  and  will  keep 
for  years.    It  is  used  for  sauces  or  fruit  soups,  etc. 

CRANBERRY  JAM. 
Put  five  quarts  of  cranberries  in  a  preserving 
kettle  with  two  quarts  of  water  and  boil  gently  until 
the  fruit  is  tender,  then  add  three  pounds  and  three- 
quarters  of  granulated  sugar,  boil  until  the  fruit  is 
clear,  skimming  carefully.  Put  in  glasses  and  when 
cold  seal.    It  keeps  well. 

GOOSEBERRY  JELLY. 
Use  the  large  English  gooseberries  and  follov^ 
directions  for  currant  jelly. 


GOOSEBERRY  JAM. 
Three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every 
pound  of  fruit.  Put  the  fruit  on  by  itself  in  a  porce- 
lain-Hned  or  granite-ware  saucepan,  mash  and  stir 
well  to  keep  from  burning,  and  boil  one  hour.  Then 
add  the  sugar  and  boil  one  hour  more. 

GRAPE  JAM. 
Press  -with  the  fingers  the  pulp  from  grapes — 
Muscat  or  Concord  grapes  make  the  best  jam — seed 
and  measure  them,  allowing  a  cup  of  sugar  to  each 
cup  of  fruit.  Put  the  skins  on  and  cook  until  tender, 
when  almost  done  add  the  pulp,  and  when  all  is  ten- 
der add  the  sugar  and  boil  until  thick. 

PINEAPPLE  JAM. 
Pare  the  fruit  and  carefully  take  out  the  ej^es, 
then  grate  it  on  a  coarse  grater,  rejecting  the  cores, 
weigh  it,  and  to  each  pound  of  fruit  take  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Sprinkle  it  over  the  grated  pines,  let  it  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning,  boil  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes  over  a  quick  fire.  Put  in  tumblers  and  when 
cold  cover. 

RASPBERRY  OR  STRAWBERRY  JAM. 
Allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  fruit.  Put  the  fruit  in  a  preserving  kettle 
over  the  fire  and  boil  fifteen  minutes,  mashing  a  little 
to  prevent  sticking  to  the  kettle.  Then  add  the  sugar 
and  boil  ten  minutes,  skimming  carefully ;  turn  into 
glasses  and  seal  when  cold. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 
Select  smooth,  thin-skinned,  juicj^  oranges.  Take 
tvirentj'-one,  and  five  lemons.  Cut  the  rind  very  thin 
from  a  third  of  the  fruit,  and  boil  it  in  two  quarts  of 
water  until  it  can  be  pierced  easily  with  a  broom 
straw.    Drain  from  the  water  and  cut  in  fine  strips 


with  scissors,  add  this  to  the  pulp  of  the  oranges  and 
lemons  after  removing  all  the  white  bitter  skin  and 
pips  from  the  fruit.  Weigh  and  allow  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit,  put  in  a  porcelain-lined  or 
granite-ware  kettle  and  cook  until  clear.  Put  in 
glasses  and  when  cold  cover  with  brandied  paper 
and  seal. 

PUMPKIN  CHIPS. 
Slice  very  thin  and  chip  about  four  pounds  of 
pumpkin,  put  in  an  earthenware  bowl,  and  cover  it 
over  night  with  four  and  a  half  pounds  of  granulated 
sugar  and  the  juice  of  one  dozen  lemons.  Boil  the 
lemon  peel  until  tender  and  cut  in  small  thin  chips 
and  add  to  the  juice,  etc.  In  the  morning,  boil  to- 
gether until  perfectly  clear  and  crisp. 


Pickles,  Sauces,  etc. 


RIPE  CUCUMBER  PICKLE. 
Pare  and  seed  the  cucumbers.  Slice  each  cucum- 
ber lengthwise  in  four  pieces  or  cut  it  in  fanc}' shapes, 
cover  with  cold  vinegar  and  let  them  stand  for  twen- 
ty-four hours.  Drain  and  put  them  in  fresh  vinegar 
with  two  pounds  of  sugar,  and  one  ounce  of  cassia 
buds  to  one  quart  of  vinegar.  Boil  for  twenty  min- 
utes and  put  in  jars. 

SWEET  PICKLED  PEACHES. 

Select  fine,  fresh,  ripe,  but  not  soft  peaches,  peel 

and  weigh  them.   To  every  seven  pounds  of  fruit  take 

five  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  a  pint  of  vinegar, 

two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon  and  one  tablespoon- 

fiil  of  cloves,  tie  the  spices  up  in  a  muslin  bag,  add  a 

fe'w  pieces  of  stick  cinnamon  and  a  few  allspice.     Put 

the  fruit  in  a  stone  jar,  bring  the  sugar,  vinegar  and 

spice  to  a  boil,  pour  over  the  peaches,  cover  and  let 

them  stand  until  the  next  day,  scald  the  sj^rup  again 

and  pour  over  the  fruit,  and  so  on,  until  it  has  been 

done  in  all  seven  times.     Take  out  the  bag  of  spice 

and  put  the  fruit  with  the  syrup  into  jars  and  seal. 

These  are  much  more  delicious  than  peaches  that  are 

cooked. 

SWEET  PICKLED  PLUMS. 

Follow  the  recipe  for  sweet  pickled  peaches. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 
Take  seven  pounds  of  fresh  and  perfectly  ripe  cur- 
rants, pick  them  over,  w^ash  and  stem  them  and  put 
in  a  granite-ware  or  porcelain-lined  kettle,  with  five 
pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  one  even  tablespoonful 

150 


of  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  dessert- 
spoonful of  allspice,  one  pint  of  best  cider  vinegar. 
Boil  an  hour  and  a  half,  put  in  jars  and  when  cold 

seal. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

Four  dozen  ripe  tomatoes,  eight  green  peppers, 
three  cups  of  chopped  onion,  eight  cups  of  cider  or 
wine  vinegar,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  ginger,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  allspice,  t\vo  teaspoonfuls  of 
cloves,  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  salt.  Skin  the  toma- 
toes and  put  them  in  the  kettle  over  the  fire ;  as  soon 
as  the  water  runs  from  them,  take  out  half  of  it,  then 
put  in  the  onions  and  peppers  chopped,  boil  together 
four  hours,  stir  constantly  the  last  hour  to  prevent 
burning,  then  add  the  other  ingredients  and  simmer 
long  enough  thoroughly  to  mix  them.  Put  the  sauce 
in  small  bottles,  cork  tight  and  seal  and  keep  in  a 
dark  place. 

CHILI  PEPPER  SAUCE. 

Twenty  ripe  tomatoes,  six  green  peppers  and  four 
white  onions  chopped  fine,  tw^o  cups  of  best  wine  or 
cider  vinegar,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  salt,  two  even  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  mace,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  nutmeg,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cloves, 
one  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed.  Boil  an  hour  and 
bottle  while  hot.  Verj^  nice  to  serve  with  baked 
beans. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES. 

One  quart  each  of  tiny  whole  cucumbers,  large 
cucumbers  sliced,  green  tomatoes  sliced  and  small 
button  onions,  one  large  cauliflower  divided  into 
flowerettes,  and  four  green  peppers  cut  fine.  Make  a 
brine  of  four  quarts  of  water  and  one  pint  of  salt, 
pour  it  over  the  mixed  vegetables  and  let  it  stand 
covered  twenty-four  hours.  Then  scald  it  and  turn 
into  a  colander  to  drain.     Mix  one  cup  of  flour,  six 

151 


tablespoonfuls  of  mustard,  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
turmeric  with  enough  vinegar  to  make  a  smooth 
paste,  add  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  sufficient 
vinegar  to  make  two  quarts  in  alL  Boil  this  mix- 
ture until  it  is  thick  and  smooth,  stirring  constantly, 
then  add  the  vegetables  and  heat  them  through. 

RIPE  TOMATO  PICKLE. 
A  peck  of  perfectly  ripe  tomatoes,  two  quarts  of 
fine  cooking  salt,  half  a  pound  of  ground  mustard, 
one  ounce  of  cloves,  t^wo  green  peppers,  two  or  three 
onions  and  one  pound  of  brown  sugar.  Pierce  the 
tomatoes  with  a  silver  fork  or  broom  straw,  put 
them  in  a  stone  jar  with  salt  in  alternate  layers. 
Throw  away  all  the  liquor  made  by  standing  one 
week.  Return  to  jar  and  cover  with  cold  water, 
cover  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Drain 
again  thoroughly,  throw  away  the  water,  return  the 
tomatoes  to  the  jar  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar, 
having  added  to  the  fruit,  the  onions  and  peppers 
sliced,  with  the  mustard,  cloves  and  sugar.  After 
they  have  stood  three  weeks  they  are  ready  for  use. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES. 
One  peck  of  sliced  tomatoes,  eight  onions,  one 
pound  of  bell  peppers,  one  pound  of  horse  radish, 
one  pound  of  white  mustard  seed,  half  a  pound  of 
black  mustard  seed,  half  an  ounce  of  whole  cloves, 
half  an  ounce  of  stick  cinnamon,  half  an  ounce  of 
pepper  corns,  one  or  two  nutmegs  and  four  pounds 
of  sugar.  Select  the  tomatoes  when  they  are  begin- 
ning to  turn  white,  slice  and  lay  them  in  salt  for 
twenty-four  hours.  Drain  and  put  in  the  kettle, 
which  should  be  of  granite  ware  or  porcelain  lined, 
with  the  peppers,  onions  and  horse  radish  chopped, 
and  sprinkle  the  mustard  seeds  over  all.  Tie  the 
spices  in  a  thin  muslin  bag  and  cover  the  whole  with 


best  wine  vinegar,  boil  until  tender  and  clear  in  ap- 
pearance. The  peppers  should  have  all  the  seeds 
removed.  Half  a  cup  of  dry  mustard  is  considered 
by  some  an  improvement. 

GOOSEBERRY  CATSUP. 
Boil  ten  pounds  of  large  English  gooseberries, 
seven  pounds  of  coffee  sugar,  and  three  pints  of 
vinegar  together  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  Then  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one  of  allspice  and 
one  of  cloves  and  boil  half  an  hour  longer.  Put  in 
jars  and  seal. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 
Put  a  pound  of  fine  fruit  into  a  bowl  and  pour 
over  it  a  quart  of  the  best  wine  or  cider  vinegar. 
Next  day  strain  the  liquor  on  a  pound  of  fresh  rasp- 
berries. The  following  day  do  the  same.  Do  not 
squeeze  the  fruit,  but  drain  as  dry  as  possible  by 
lightly  pressing  it.  The  last  time  strain  it  through 
muslin  previously  w^et  w^ith  vinegar  to  prevent 
waste.  Put  into  a  preserving  kettle  with  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  every  pint  of  juice.  Stir  until  the  sugar 
is  melted  and  let  it  cook  gently  for  five  minutes,  skim 
it.     When  cold,  bottle  and  cork  well. 


Sweet  Sauces. 


FRUIT  SAUCE. 
Put  a  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  in  a  saucepan, 
pour  over  it  two  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  boiling  water, 
let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  add  two  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  two  even  teaspoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch rubbed  to  a  paste  with  a  little  cold  water,  then 
add  a  cupful  of  canned  fruit  or  a  glass  of  any  kind  of 
fruit  or  jelly  liked  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Press 
through  a  fine  sieve  and  serve  with  fritters  or  pud- 
dings. 

FRESH  FRUIT  SAUCE. 

Follow  the  above  recipe,  using  a  cupful  of  pure 

juice  of  the  fruit  desired  and  the  juice  of  either  a  half 

or  whole  lemon, 

ORANGE  SAUCE. 

Beat  four  egg  yolks,  three  ounces  of  sugar,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour  and  the  grated  rind  of  one  orange 
together  until  light,  add  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  and 
stir  over  the  fire  until  thick,  taking  care  that  it  does 
not  curdle,  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  a  liqueur 
glass  of  cura^oa,  and  beat  until  light  and  foaming. 

BANANA  SAUCE. 

Rub  two  bananas  through  a  fine  sieve.  Put  half 
a  cuj)  of  granulated  sugar  in  a  saucepan  with  one  cup 
of  boiling  water,  add  the  banana  pulp  to  it,  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  and  skim  if  necessary.  Rub  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  butter  with  half  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  stir  into  it  a  httle  of  the  liquid,  and  then  add  to 
that  in  the  saucepan ;  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
half  a  lemon,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 
FOAMING  .SAUCE. 

Beat  to  a  cream  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  quarter  of 
a  cup  of  butter,  and  add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of 


wine  or  fruit  juice,  or  in  winter  fruit  s^^rup.  If  the 
latter,  use  only  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar.  At 
serving  time  add  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  boiling  water, 
stir  well,  then  add  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Beat  until  the  sauce  foams. 
HARD  SAUCE. 

Cream  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  stir  in  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  beat  until  very 
light,  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  boiling  water  and 
beat  again.    Flavor  to  suit  taste. 

SOUTHERN  SAUCE. 

Beat  four  tablespoonfuls  of  brown  sugar  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  to  a  cream,  and  add  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  set  the  bowl  in  a  pan 
of  hot  vsrater  on  the  stove  and  stir  until  thick,  add  a 
glass  of  sherry,  stir  well  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

VANILLA  SAUCE. 
Put  a  pint  of  rich  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  sweeten 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar.  While 
the  milk  is  coming  to  the  boiling  point  beat  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs  until  light  and  cream^^  add  the  hot  milk 
to  the  eggs,  stirring  briskly,  then  turn  it  into  the  boil- 
er, stirring  rapidly  until  it  thickens,  remove  from  the 
fire,  turn  into  a  bowl,  flavor  with  vanilla  extract  and 
serve  very  cold. 

SAUCE  FOR  NOODLE  PUDDING. 
Four  egg  yolks,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of 
a  cup  of  sherry,  one  teaspoonful  of  potato  flour,  half 
a  cup  of  ■vv'^ater,  the  rind  of  half  and  the  juice  of  one 
lemon.  Beat  quickly  over  hot  water  until  the  sauce 
thickens,  then  serve  at  once. 

MAPLE  SYRUP  SAUCE. 
Half  a  pound  of  maple  sugar  dissolved  in  half  a 
cup  of  cream,  or  rich  milk.     If  the  latter  is  used  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter. 


Savory  Sauces. 


In  making  sauces  great  care  should  be  taken  to 
have  the  saucepans  scrupulously  clean  and  only 
granite- ware  or  porcelain-lined  saucepans  should  be 
used,  especially  where  there  is  any  acid  as  in  toma- 
toes or  pickles.  Never  use  an  iron  spider  except  for 
browning  butter  and  flour  together  as  they  will  not 
brown  in  a  saucepan. 

VEGETABLE  STOCK  FOR  SAUCES. 

Take  any  kinds  of  vegetables  convenient,  such  as 
parsnips,  celer>%  carrots,  turnips,  green  pepper,  onion, 
leek,  parsley,  celery  tops,  celery  root,  Jerusalem  arti- 
chokes, a  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  two  allspice,  and  cook 
in  water  until  tender;  strain,  pressing  all  from  the 
vegetables.  The  water  Jerusalem  artichokes  are 
boiled  in  is  valuable  for  sauces.  The  liquid  from 
canned  peas  is  also  excellent.  Care  must  be  taken  in 
putting  the  vegetables  together  not  to  let  any  one 
predominate,  turnip  especially,  as  it  makes  a  sauce 
very  bitter. 

COLORING  FOR  SAUCES,  SOUPS,  Etc. 

Melt  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar  in 
a  spider,  cook  until  it  is  a  very  dark,  rich  brown, 
almost  black,  stir  constantly.  Great  care  must  be 
taken  that  it  does  not  burn.  When  done  pour  over 
it  a  quart  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  cook  until  the 
caramel  is  entirely  dissolved,  pour  it  out  and  when 
cold  strain  and  bottle.  It  will  keep  indefinitely  and 
a  tablespoonful  will  give  color  to  a  pint  of  liquid. 

OLIVE  SAUCE. 
Melt  a  heaping    tablespoonful    of  butter    in    a 
spider  and  when  it  begins  to  brown  stir  into  it  a 


heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  let  it  cook  until  a 
very  dark  brown,  but  be  careful  not  to  let  it  burn, 
then  add  enough  rich  vegetable  stock  to  make  a, 
thick  cream-like  sauce.  Have  ready  some  olives — six 
or  seven,  that  have  been  boiled  a  few  minutes  in 
water  and  cut  from  the  stones,  add  these  to  the 
sauce,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  serve. 

SAUCE  HOLLANDAISE. 
One-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one-quarter  of 
a  cup  of  w^ater,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
the  juice  of  a  quarter  of  a  lemon,  a  dash  of  cayenne, 
and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Beat  the  butter  to  a 
cream  and  stir  in  the  3'olks  of  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
then  the  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Set  the  bowl 
it  is  mixed  in  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  on  the  fire, 
beating  constantly  with  an  egg  beater,  and  when  it 
begins  to  thicken  stir  in  gradually  the  boiling  water. 
When  it  is  as  thick  as  soft  custard  it  is  done.  Great 
care  must  be  taken  not  to  let  it  remain  too  long  on 
the  fire  or  it  will  curdle. 

DRAWN  BUTTER  OR  CREAM  SAUCE. 
Melt  a  large  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
stir  into  it  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour,  let  them 
cook  together  without  browning  and  add  by  degrees 
a  cup  of  hot  milk. 

CURRY  SAUCE. 
Curry  sauce  is  made  by  adding  curry  powder  to 
taste  to  a  white  sauce.     It  may  likewise  be  added  to 
a  brow^n  sauce. 

CHEESE  SAUCE. 
A  white  or  cream  sauce  with  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  added  to  taste. 


TOMATO  SAUCE. 
Melt  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire,  when  it  bubbles  put  into  it  a  small  onion 
and  half  a  green  pepper,  if  convenient,  chopped  verj^ 
fine.  Simmer  gently  for  a  few  minutes,  then  stir  in  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  add  four  nice,  fresh 
tomatoes  peeled  and  cut  small  —  canned  tomatoes 
may  be  used — a  gill  of  vegetable  stock,  a  clove  and 
part  of  a  bay  leaf,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Let 
it  cook  gently  for  half  an  hour  and  press  through  a 
fine  sieve. 

SAUCE  TARTARE 

maj^  be  made  by  beating  a  small  tablespoonful  of 
butter  to  a  cream,  adding  salt,  pepper,  dry  mustard 
and  sugar  to  taste  and  the  raw  jo\k  of  an  egg.  Add 
a  tablespoonful  of  olives,  small  cucumbers  and  capers 
chopped  very  fine  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice. 
Serve  with  mock  fish  cutlets  and  croquettes. 

SAUCE  PIQUANTE. 
Melt  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  spider 
and  when  it  bubbles  stir  into  it  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful of  flour,  cook  until  it  turns  a  dark  brown, 
taking  care  not  to  let  it  burn,  add  to  it  enough  well- 
seasoned  vegetable  stock  to  make  the  sauce  the 
proper  consistencj-,  then  pour  it  into  a  granite-ware 
saucepan  and  add  one  small  cucumber  pickle,  two 
olives  and  a  few  capers,  all  chopped  very  fine ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


Sandwiches. 


CHEESE  SANDWICHES. 
Half  a  pound  of  grated  cheese,  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  the  3'olks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  mashed 
very  fine  and  a  teaspoonful  of  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly;  butter  before  cut- 
ting from  the  loaf  some  slices  of  brown  or  white 
home-made  bread ;  spread  with  the  mixture  and  fold 
together. 

CELERY  SANDWICHES. 
Use  dainty  little  baking  powder  biscuits  freshly 
baked  but  cold,  or  white  home-made  bread  for  these 
sandwiches.  Only  the  very  tender  part  of  celery 
should  be  used  and  chopped  fine  and  put  in  iced  water 
until  needed.  Add  a  few  chopped  walnuts  to  the 
celery  and  enough  mayonnaise  dressing  to  hold  them 
together;  butter  the  bread  before  cutting  from  the 
loaf,  spread  one  slice  with  the  mixture  and  press  an- 
other over  it.  If  biscuits  are  used,  split  and  butter 
them.  They  should  be  small  and  \eiry  thin  for  this 
purpose  and  bro^^ned  delicately. 

NUT  AND  CREAM  CHEESE  SANDWICHES. 
Boston  brown  bread  buttered  on  the  loaf  and  cut 
in  very  thin  slices ;  spread  with  a  filling  of  cream 
cheese  and  chopped  walnut  meats ;  press  a  buttered 
slice  over  it.  They  may  be  cut  in  fingers,  rounds  or 
half-moons.  The  proportion  is  three-quarters  of  a 
cup  of  nuts  to  a  ten-cent  package  of  Philadelphia 
cream  cheese.  This  quantity  will  make  a  large  num- 
ber of  sandwiches. 


NUT  SANDWICHES. 
Graham,  rye,  and  Boston  brown  bread  make  very 
nice  sandwiches.     Butter  the  loaf  and  cut  in  verj^  thin 
slices,  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts  and  fold  together. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  BREAD  AND  PEANUT  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  the  nuts  very  fine,  butter  the  l^read  before 

cutting  from  the  loaf,  sprinkle  the  nuts  thicklj'  over 

the  butter,  press  two  slices  together.     Boston  brown 

bread  with  raisins  is  also  nice  for  these  sandwiches. 

OLIVE  SANDWICHES. 
Prepare  the  bread  and  butter  as  for  other  sand- 
wiches. It  may  be  cut  in  squares,  rounds  or  tri- 
angles to  suit  the  fancy.  Stone  and  chop  as  many 
Queen  olives  as  needed  and  mix  with  them  enough 
mayonnaise  dressing  to  hold  together,  spread  half 
the  number  of  bread  slices  with  the  mixture  and 
cover  with  the  other  half. 

Brown,  rye,  whole  wheat  or  white  bread  may  be 
used.  Home-made  is  preferable,  but  it  must  be 
twelve  hours  old.  Sandwiches  may  be  sweet  or  sa- 
vory, may  be  cut  round,  square,  or  in  triangles. 


«&4 


Sundries, 

CRACKERS  AND  CHEESE  TOASTED. 
Butter  some  zepherettes  and  sprinkle  thickly  with 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  bake  in   a  quick  oven,  or 
toast  on  a  gridiron ;  serve  hot. 

CRACKERS  WITH  CREAM  CHEESE  AND  GUAVA  JELLY. 

Spread  zepherettes  with  cream  cheese  and  dot 
with  Guava  jelly. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

Half  a  pound  of  American  cheese,  two  butter 
balls,  two  eggs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  half  a  cup 
of  milk  and  an  even  saltspoonful  of  soda.  Cut  the 
cheese  fine,  melt  the  butter  in  a  chafing  dish  or  spider, 
stir  the  mustard,  salt  and  pepper  with  it,  then  add 
the  cheese  and  milk ;  when  the  cheese  is  dissolved  add 
the  eggs  slightly  beaten  and  stir  until  it  thickens. 
Serve  on  toast. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE. 

Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  spider,  add 
to  it  a  slightly  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one 
cup  of  hot  milk,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of 
cayenne  pepper  and  one  cup  of  grated  Parmesan 
cheese;  then  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  light, 
remove  from  the  fire  and  let  it  cool ;  then  add  the 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  stifi',  turn  into  a  pudding  dish, 
bake  twenty-five  minutes  and  serve  immediately. 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 
Take  two  ounces  of  flour  and  three  ounces  of 
Parmesan  cheese  grated  (it  is  better  to  buy  the  cheese 
by  the  pound  and  have  it  grated  at  home),  and  two 


ounces  of  butter.  Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  add 
the  cheese  and  a  little  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  and 
make  into  a  paste  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  roll  the 
paste  out  in  a  sheet  about  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick 
and  five  inches  wide  and  cut  in  narrow  strips ;  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  about  ten  minutes. 

PATE  A  CHOU  FOR  SOUPS. 
Put  a  gill  of  milk  and  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire ;  when  it  comes  to  the  boiling 
point  add  two  ounces  of  sifted  flour;  stir  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  thick  and  smooth,  then  add  two 
eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  briskly;  remove  from 
the  fire  and  spread  out  thin,  cut  in  pieces,  the  size  of 
a  small  bean,  put  them  in  a  sieve,  dredge  with  flour, 
shake  it  well  and  frjnn  boiling  fat  until  a  nice  brown. 
Add  to  the  soup  after  it  is  in  the  tureen. 

A  HLLING  FOR  PATTIES. 
Break  two  eggs  in  a  bowl,  add  a  little  salt  and 
white  pepper,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice  and  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  beat  slightly;  turn  into  a 
buttered  tin  cup,  stand  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little 
boiling  water  in  it  on  the  stove,  cover  and  cook  until 
stiff— about  three  or  four  minutes — remove  from  the 
fire,  turn  out  of  the  cup.  When  ready  to  use  cut  in 
half-inch  slices  and  then  into  stars  or  any  fancy  shape 
preferred,  or  into  dice.  Make  a  cream  sauce  thicker 
than  for  other  uses,  that  it  may  not  run  through  the 
pastry ;  put  them  in  the  sauce,  bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  fill  the  patties  just  as  they  are  to  be  served. 

GRUEL  OF  KERNEL  FLOUR  OR  MIDDLINGS. 
Put  a  pint  of  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan  over 
the  fire ;  mix  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  the  flour 
with  a  little  cold  water  and  stir  into  the  boiling 
water.  Let  it  boil  twenty  minutes,  add  a  little  cream 
to  it  and  salt.    Very  nutritious. 

162 


KOUMYSS. 
Dissolve  a  third  of  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  in 
a  little  tepid  water;  take  a  quart  of  milk,  fresh  from 
the  cow,  or  warmed  to  blood  heat,  and  add  to  it  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  the  dissolved  yeast.  Put 
the  mixture  immediately  in  beer  bottles  with  patent 
stoppers,  filling  to  the  neck,  and  let  them  stand  for 
twelve  hours  where  bread  would  be  set  to  rise— that 
is,  in  a  temperature  of  68  or  70  degrees— then  stand 
the  bottles  upside  down  on  ice  until  wanted. 

HOME-MADE  BAKING  POWDER. 
Procure  from  a  reliable  druggist  one-half  pound 
of  the  best  bicarbonate  of  soda,  one  pound  of  cream 
of  tartar  and  one-half  pound  of  Kingsford's  corn- 
starch. Mix  thoroughly  and  sift  three  times,  put  up 
in  small  tins.    The  best  baking  powder. 

VANILLA  EXTRACT. 

One  ounce  of  Mexican  vanilla  bean,  two  ounces 
of  loaf  sugar,  eight  ounces  of  French  rose  water, 
twenty-four  ounces  of  alcohol  95  per  cent.  Cut  up 
the  bean  and  pound  with  the  sugar  in  a  mortar,  sift 
and  pound  again  until  all  is  a  fine  powder.  Mix  the 
alcohol  and  rose  water;  put  the  vanilla  in  a  paper 
filter,  pour  over  it  a  little  of  the  liquid  at  a  time  until 
all  is  used ;  filter  again  if  not  all  is  dissolved.  Paper 
filters  may  be  obtained  at  any  of  the  large  drug 
stores.  The  extract  may  be  darkened  by  using  a 
little  caramel. 

VANILLA  SUGAR. 

Half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of 
Mexican  vanilla  beans.  Cut  the  beans  very  fine, 
pound  in  a  mortar  with  the  sugar;  sift  and  pound 
again  until  all  is  fine.  Bottle  and  cork  tight  and 
keep  in  a  dark  place. 


SPINACH  FOR  COLORING. 
Pound  some  spinach  in  a  mortar,  adding  a  little 
water ;  squeeze  through  a  cheese  cloth,  put  in  a  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire,  bring  to  a  boil ;  when  it  curdles  re- 
move from  the  stove.  Strain  through  a  very  fine 
sieve ;  what  remains  on  the  under  part  of  the  sieve 
is  the  coloring.  It  is  used  for  coloring  pistache  ice 
cream,  jellies,  etc. 

TOMATO  PASTE  FOR  SANDWICHES. 
Skin  and  cut  small  three  large  tomatoes,  cook 
until  tender  and  press  through  a  sieve  fine  enough  to 
retain  the  seeds ;  return  to  the  fire,  add  two  ounces 
of  butter,  two  ounces  of  grated  bread  crumbs  and 
two  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  When  it 
boils  stir  a  beaten  egg  quickly  into  it,  remove  at  once 
from  the  fire.  It  must  not  boil  after  the  egg  is  added, 
as  it  will  curdle.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a  bowd  and 
when  cold,  if  it  is  not  for  immediate  use,  cover  with 
melted  butter. 

CHEESE  PASTE  FOR  SANDWICHES. 
Boil  two  eggs  hard,  separate  the  yolks  from  the 
whites,  mash  the  yolks  smooth  and  chop  the  whites 
very  fine;  mix  and  put  through  a  vegetable  press, 
then  add  butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg  and  three 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  American  cheese. 
Beat  together  until  it  is  a  fine,  smooth  paste.  If  not 
salt  enough  add  a  little,  and  also  drv  mustard,  if 
liked. 


Miscellaneous  Recipes. 

TOOTH  POWDER. 
Precipitated  chalk,  seven  ounces;  Florentine  orris, 
four  ounces;  bicarbonate  of  soda,  three  ounces;  po-w- 
dered  white  Castile  soap,  two  ounces ;  thirty  drops 
each  of  oil  of  wintergreen  and  sassafras.  Sift  all  to- 
gether and  keep  in  a  glass  jar  or  tin  box.  A  very 
valuable  recipe  for  hardening  the  teeth. 

JAPANESE  CREAM. 
Four  ounces  of  ammonia,  four  ounces  of  white 
Castile  soap  cut  fine,  two  ounces  of  alcohol,  two 
ounces  of  Price's  gh^cerine  and  two  ounces  of  ether. 
Put  the  soap  in  one  quart  of  water  over  the  fire; 
vsrhen  dissolved  add  four  quarts  of  water ;  when  cold 
add  the  other  ingredients,  bottle  and  cork  tight.  It 
will  keep  indefinitely.  It  should  be  made  of  soft 
water  or  rain  water.  To  wash  woolens,  flannels, 
etc.,  take  a  teacup  of  the  liquid  to  a  pail  of  luke^A,^arm 
water,  and  rinse  in  another  pail  of  w^ater  with  half  a 
cup  of  the  cream.  Iron  while  damp  on  the  wrong 
side.  For  removing  grass  stains,  paint,  etc.,  use  half 
\vater  and  half  cream. 

ORANGE  FLOWER  LOTION  FOR  THE  COMPLEXION. 

Dissolve  a  slightly  heaping  tablespoonful  of  Ep- 
som salts  in  a  pint  of  imported  orange  flower  water 
(Chiris  de  Grasse),  and  add  to  it  one  tablespoonful 
of  witch  hazel.  Apply  with  a  soft  linen  cloth.  Very 
refreshing  in  warm  "weather  and  an  excellent  remedy 
for  oiliness  of  the  skin. 

BAY  RUM. 

Three-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  oil  of  ba3',  one 
ounce  of  loaf  sugar,  one  pint  of  alcohol,  95  per  cent., 


two  quarts  of  new  New  England  rum  and  three  pints 
of  rectified  spirits,  60  per  cent.  Roll  the  sugar  until 
fine  and  beat  into  the  oil  of  bay,  add  the  alcohol,  then 
the  New  England  rum  and  spirits.  Let  it  stand  for 
several  days  in  a  demijohn,  shaking  occasionally; 
then  filter  through  blotting  paper.  The  filters  may 
be  purchased  at  a  druggist's.  Care  should  be  taken 
to  buy  the  oil  at  a  reliable  place. 

FINE  LAVENDER  WATER. 

Two  ounces  finest  oil  of  lavender,  one  ounce 
essence  of  musk,  one-half  ounce  essence  of  ambergris, 
one-half  ounce  oil  of  bergamot  and  one-half  gallon  of 
rectified  spirits.  Mix  the  ingredients,  keep  in  a  demi- 
john for  several  daj^s,  shaking  occasionally.  Then 
filter  and  bottle. 

GOOD  HARD  SOAP. 

Five  pounds  of  grease,  one  quart  and  one  cup  of 
cold  v^ater,  one  can  of  potash,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  borax,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ammonia. 
Dissolve  the  potash  in  the  water,  then  add  the  borax 
and  ammonia  and  stir  in  the  lukewarm  grease  slowly 
and  continue  to  stir  until  it  becomes  as  thick  as  thick 
honey ;  then  pour  into  a  pan  to  harden.  When  firm 
cut  into  cakes.  Grease  that  is  no  longer  fit  to  fry  in 
is  used  for  this  soap.  Strain  it  carefully  that  no  par- 
ticles of  food  are  left  in  it.  It  makes  no  difference 
how  brown  the  grease  is,  the  soap  will  become  white 
and  float  in  water.  It  should  be  kept  a  month  before 
using. 

POLISH  FOR  HARD  OR  STAINED  WOOD  FLOORS. 

Eight  ounces  of  yellow  beeswax,  two  quarts  of 
spirits"  of  turpentine,  one  quart  of  Venetian  turpen- 
tine. Cut  the  wax  in  small  pieces  and  pour  the 
spirits  over  it— it  will  soon  dissolve;  then  bottle. 
Apply  with  a  flannel  or  soft  cloth.  It  keeps  the  floors 
in  excellent  order. 

166 


CONTENTS. 


BREADS,    ROLLS,    Etc. 

PAGE 

Biscuits,  Beaten,  No.  1 13 

"     2 13 

"         Baking  Powder 13 

"         Cream 13 

Rolls,  French 14 

"       Windsor 14 

"       Elizabetti's 15 

Rye  Flour 15 

Gluten 15 

"       Parker  House 15 

Boston  Brown  Bread 16 

"             "            "      with  Raisins 16 

"      Stewed 16 

Graham  Bread 17 

Rye  Bread 17 

Quick  White  Bread 17 

Date  Bread 17 

Cofifee  Bread,  No.  1 18 

"    2 18 

Norwegian  Rolls  and  Zwieback 18 

Rice  Muffins 19 

Laplands 19 

English  Muffins 19 

Graham  Popovers 20 

Gems 20 

Gems  of  Kernel  (Middlings)  and  White  Flour 20 

"   Rye  Meal 20 

Corn  Batter  Bread 21 

"    Bread 21 

"    Griddle  Cakes 21 

White  Bread  Griddle  Cakes 22 

Boston  Brown  Bread  Griddle  Cakes 22 

Waffles 22 

Rolls,  Epicurean 22 

Bread  from  Rummer  Flour 23 

Biscuits  of  Kernel  or  Graham  Flour 23 

167 


EGGS. 

PAGE 

to  soft  boil 24 

"  hard  boil 24 

"       a  la  Creme 24 

"       au  Gratin 24 

"       Nun's  Toast 25 

"       a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel 25 

Timbales  of. 25 

Stuffed  with  Mushrooms 26 

"       with  Cream 26 

Curried 26 

"       Stuffed 27 

"      and  Fried 27 

"       Fricasseed 27 

"       Chops 28 

Omelet,  Plain 28 

with  Cheese 28 

"            "      Mushrooms 28 

"            "      Tomatoes 29 

Eggs,  Poached  with  Tomato  Catsup 29 

"             "        in  Cream 29 

"             "        in  Tomatoes 29 

"       in  a  Brown  Sauce 30 

SOUPS. 

Cream  of  Jerusalem  Artichokes 31 

"       "   Asparagus 31 

"       "   Lima  Beans 32 

"   Cauliflower 32 

"       "   Celery 33 

"   Chestnuts 33 

"       "   Cucumbers 33 

"       "   Summer  Squash 34 

"   Lettuce 34 

"       "   Mushrooms 35 

"       "   Green  Peas 35 

"   Rice 36 

"  Spinach 36 

Carrot 37 

Celeriac 37 

Mock  Clam 37 

Corn  and  Tomato 38 

Cr<^cy 38 

Curry 38 


PAGE 

Mock  Fish :}<) 

Norwegian  Sweet 40 

Onion 40 

Green  Pea,  No.  1 41 

"        "    2 41 

Potato 41 

Puree  of  Vegetables 42 

"      "  Turnips 42 

Vegetable 42 

Tomato 43 

Barley.... 43 

Black  Bean,  with  Mock  Meat  Balls 44 

ENTREES. 

Egg  Border,  with  Rice  and  Curr\^  Sauce 45 

Rice  Border,  with  Vegetables  or  hard-boiled  Eggs  in  Cream 

Sauce 45 

Mock  Chicken,  a  Timbale  of,  with  Sauce 45 

Spaghettina,  a  Mould  of 4G 

Spinach,  a  Border  Mould  of,  with  Filling 47 

Mock  Codfish  Balls 48 

"      Fish  Balls,  in  Curry  or  Cream  Sauce 48 

"      Fish,  (a  Norwegian  Dish) 49 

"      Meat 49 

Spaghettina  Chops 50 

Tomato  Chops 50 

Fried  Bread,  a  Savory 51 

Mock  Fish  Chops 51 

Spaghettina,  Fricassee  of , 52 

Mushrooms,  en  Coquille 52 

Egg  Plant,  a  Ragout  of 52 

Patties  of  Puff  Paste 53 

Rice,  a  Savory  of  (Mexican  Dish) 54 

Asparagus,  a  Ragout  of,  with  Mock  Meat  Balls 54 

Rice,  Curried,  Croquettes  of 55 

Mock  Fish  Croquettes 55 

Walnut  Croquettes 55 

Mushrooms,  a  Ragout  of 56 

Mock  Chicken  Croquettes 56 

VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes,  to  Boil 57 

Baked 57 

"          Mashed 58 

169 


PAGE 

Potatoes,  New,  with  Cream  Sauce 58 

Broiled 58 

"          ii  la  Creme  au  Gratin 58 

Stuffed 58 

"          Fricasseed 59 

"          a  la  Duchesse 59 

"          Saratoga  Chips 59 

"          French  Fried 60 

Ji  la  Maitre  d 'Hotel 60 

"          Lyonnaise 60 

"          a  la  Parisienne 60 

"          Creamed  and  Browned 60 

Puff 61 

"          White,  Croquettes 61 

Papa 61 

Sweet,  Fried  Raw 62 

"      Cooked 62 

"                "       Mashed  and  Browned 62 

"       Croquettes 62 

Brussels  Sprouts 63 

Okra  and  Tomatoes 63 

Beets 63 

Peas,  Puree  of. 63 

Beans,  Lima,  Puree  of. 64 

Cucumbers,  Puree  of. 64 

Stuffed 64 

"            Stuffed  with  Mushrooms 65 

Egg  Plant,  Escalloped 65 

"       Stuffed 66 

Corn,  Green,  Cakes  of. 67 

"      Pudding 67 

"      Green,  Mock  Oysters  of 67 

"      Boiled  on  the  Cob 67 

Curry  of. 68 

Celeriac  and  Salsify,  Croquettes  of. 68 

Indian  Curry  of  Vegetables 68 

Kohlrabi 69 

Beans,  Marrowfat,  Baked 69 

Bayo,  No.  1 70 

"    2 70 

Emparadas 70 

Frijoles  Fritos 71 

Mushrooms,  Broiled 71 

170 


PAGE 

Mushrooms  on  Toast 71 

Stewed  in  Cream  Sauce 72 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Mushrooms,  No.  1 72 

"    2 72 

Escalloped  Tomatoes 73 

Tomatoes  with  Egg 73 

French  Carrots  in  Brown  Sauce 73 

"             "         and  Peas 73 

Spinach  Pudding 74 

Balls 74 

Tomatoes  and  Mushrooms 75 

Rice,  to  Boil  Plain 75 

Cauliflower  with  Drawn  Butter 75 

Escalloped  Cauliflower 76 

Spaghettina 76 

Chestnuts,  Puree  of. 76 

Beans,  Dried  White,  Puree  of 77 

Squash  Pudding 77 

"        Fritters 77 

Summer  Squash 77 

Rice  Croquettes 78 

Celeriac,  Fricassee  of 78 

Turnip,  Yellow,  Ragout  of 78 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Cheese 79 

Artichokes,  Jerusalem 79 

Asparagus 79 

Pointes  d'Asperges 79 

Cabbage,  Purple,  with  Chestnuts 80 

Parsnips,  Croquettes,  with  Walnuts 80 

Fried 81 

Parsnip  Fritters 81 

Beans,  String,  to  cook 81 

Onions,  Spanish,  Stuffed 81 

Celeriac  Stuffed  with  Spanish  Sauce 82 

Cabbage,  Spring,  Stewed 83 

"                ■'        :n  Cream  Sauce S3 

Turnips,          "               "              "     83 

White  Bread  Balls 84 

Noodles 84 

"        a  la  Ferrari 84 

Gnocchi  a  la  Romaine 85 

171 


SALADS. 

PAGE 

Mayonnaise  Dressing,  for  Salads 86 

Cream                     "           "         "      86 

French                     "           "          "      87 

Tomato  Ice  Salad 87 

Tomato  Je%  Salad 87 

Spaghettina  and  Celery  Salad 88 

Salad  of  Fairy  Rings  and  Puff  Ball  Mushrooms 88 

Salad  of  Fresh  Fruit 88 

Cucumber  Jelly 88 

Walnut  and  Celery  Salad ." 89 

Pineapple  and  Celery  Salad 89 

Fruit  Salad 90 

Potato  Salad 90 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Celery 90 

Cderiac  and  Lettuce  Salad 91 

Raw  Jerusalem  Artichokes  and  Lettuce  Salad 91 

Salad  a  la  Macedoine 91 

Asparagus  Salad 91 

Cucumber  Salad 91 

Cold  Slaw 92 

Tomato  Salad 92 

Endive 92 

Egg  Salad 92 

FRUIT    DESSERTS. 

Apple  Betty 93 

"      Charlotte 93 

"      Croquettes 93 

"      Stewed  Whole 94 

"      Souffle' 94 

Custard,  No.  1 95 

"     2 95 

"      Baked  Dumplings  of 95 

"      Float 96 

"      Fried 96 

"      Marmalade 96 

"      Meringue 96 

"      Pudding,  No.  1 97 

"     2 97 

"      Stewed  in  Butter 97 

Apples,  To  Steam 98 

Scalloped 98 

Banana  Fritters 98 

172 


PAGE 

Cherry  Cake  (a  Bavarian  recipe)  99 

Cranberry  Bavarian  Cream 99 

Fresh  Fruit,  A  Mould  of. 100 

Mixed  Fruit,  A  Dessert  of. 100 

Gooseberry  Pudding 100 

Pineapple  Meringue 101 

Prune  Souffle 101 

Prunes,  A  Mould  of. 101 

Dried  Figs,  Stewed 102 

Rhubarb  Meringue 102 

"  Scalloped 102 

Rice  and  Date  Pudding 103 

"    Fig  "         103 

"    Raisin     "         103 

"     Prune     "         103 

Flour  Pudding 103 

Souffle 104 

Pudding,  No.  1 104 

"     2 105 

Omelet  Souffli? 105 

Strav^berry  Shortcake,  No.  1 105 

"    2 106 

Strawberries  in  Ladies'  Locks 106 

Scalloped 106 

Currant  Pudding 107 

Stewed  Dates 107 

Stuffed  Dates 107 

Tapioca  and  Apple  Pudding 107 

"  "    Strawberry  Jelly 108 

"  "    Raspberry        "   108 

"    Currant  "   108 

Pearl  Sago  and  Fi'uit  Jellies 108 

DESSERTS.    PUDDINGS. 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding,  No.  1 108 

"    2 109 

"      Custard 109 

Fried  Bread 109 

Chocolate  Cream 110 

Custard 110 

Pudding Ill 

Cottage  Pudding Ill 

Caramel  Custard,  Baked Ill 


PAGE 

Soft-boiled  Custard 112 

A  Simple  Dessert 112 

Ginger  Cream '. 113 

Graham  Pudding 113 

Nalesneky  (a  Russian  recipe.) 113 

Noodle  Pudding 114 

Paradise  Pudding 114 

Princess  Pudding 114 

English  Plum  Pudding 115 

Sago  Souffle 115 

Semoulina  Pudding 116 

Serniky  (a  Russian  recipe) 116 

Steamed  Pudding 116 

Sponge  Cake  Meringue 117 

Stale  Cake  Pudding 117 

Baked  Tapioca  Pudding 118 

Tapioca  Cream IIS 

Steamed  Rice 118 

Rice  Cake 118 

Brown  Bread  Pudding 119 

ICE    CREAMS    AND    WATER    ICES. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream 120 

Coffee  Ice  Cream 120 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream 120 

Raspberry      "         "      120 

Walnut  "         "      120 

Orange  "         "      121 

Strawberry  Water  Ice 121 

White  Currant  "      "   121 

Pineapple  "      "   121 

Lemon  "      "   121 

Raspberry  "      "   121 

Frozen  Pudding 122 

Windsor  Rock  Punch 122 

CAKES. 

CakeAIaking 123 

Angel  Cake 123 

Berlinerkrands 124 

Blueberry  Cake 124 

Cinnamon  Cake 124 

Cream  Puifs 124 

Lady  Cake ' 125 

174 


PAGE 

Honey  Cake  (a  Norwegian  recipe) 125 

Simple  Fruit  Cake 125 

Bavarian  Cake 126 

Pound  Cake ^ 126 

Sponge  Cake,  No.  1 126 

"     2 127 

Corn  Sponge  Cake  (a  Spanish  recipe) 127 

Spiced  Gingerbread 127 

Cream  "  128 

Ginger  Sponge  Cake 128 

Soft  Gingerbread 128 

Ginger  Cakes 129 

"       Snaps,  No.  1 129 

"     2 129 

Hard  Gingerbread 129 

Brandy  Snaps 130 

Pepper  Nuts,  No.  1 130 

"     2 130 

Tea  Cakes 130 

Fig  Cake 131 

Ginger  Layer  Cake 131 

Orange  Cake 132 

Pineapple  Cake 132 

Chocolate  Layer  Cake 133 

Poor  Man's  Cake  (a  Norwegian  recipe) 133 

Venison  Cakes  (a  Norwegian  recipe) 133 

Seed  Cakes 134 

Drop      "     : , 134 

Lebkuchen 134 

Macaroons  (a  Bavarian  recipe) 135 

Chocolate  Macaroons  (a  Bavarian  recipe) 135 

Soda  Cakes , 135 

Walnut  Wafers 136 

Jode  Cakes 136 

Frosting 136 

Boiled  Icing 136 

PIES. 

Plain  Pastry 137 

Puff  Paste 137 

One  Squash  or  Pumpkin  Pie,  To  Make 138 

Sweet  Rissoles 138 

Richmond  Maids  of  Honor 138 

175 


PAGE 

Cheese  Cakes 139 

Cocoanut  Pie 139 

Lemon  Pie 139 

Mince  Meat 140 

CANDIES. 

Chocolate  Caramels,  No.  1 141 

"     2 141 

"    3 141 

"         Cream  Peppermints - 141 

Candy,  To  Pull 142 

Chestnuts,  Glace 142 

Cocoanut  Cakes 143 

Hoarhound  Candy 143 

Marshniallows 143 

Nougat 144 

Panoche  (a  Spanish  recipe) 144 

Peppermint  Drops 144 

Pralines '.. 144 

Vassar  Fudge 145 

PRESERVES. 

Mixed  Fruits 146 

Red  Currant  Jam 146 

"       Jelly 146 

Syrup 147 

Black     "  "    147 

Cranberry  Jam 147 

Gooseberry  Jelly 147 

Jam 148 

Grape  Jam 148 

Pineapple  Jam 148 

Raspberry  or  Strawberry  Jam 148 

Orange  Marmalade 148 

Pumpkin  Chips 149 

PICKLES,    SAUCES,    Etc. 

Ripe  Cucumber  Pickle 150 

Sweet  Pickled  Peaches 150 

Plums 150 

Spiced  Currants 150 

Chili  Sauee 151 

"     Pepper  Sauce 151 

176 


PAGE 

Mustard  Pickles 151 

Ripe  Tomato  Pic-kle 152 

Green       "  "      152 

Gooseberry  Catsup 153 

Raspberry  Vinegar 153 

SWEET    SAUCES. 

Fruit  Sauce 154- 

Fresh  Fruit  Sauce 154 

Orange  Sauce 154 

Banana      "     154 

Foaming    "      154 

Hard  "     155 

Southern    "     155 

Vanilla       "     155 

Sauce  for  Noodle  Pudding 155 

Maple  Syrup  Sauce 155 

SAVORY    SAUCES. 

Vegetable  Stock  for  Sauces 156 

Coloring  for  Sauces,  Soups,  etc 156 

Olive  Sauce 156 

Sauce  Hollandaise 157 

Drawn  Butter  or  Cream  Sauce 157 

Curr^'  Sauce 157 

Cheese      "      157 

Tomato  "      158 

Sauce  Tartare 158 

Sauce  Piquante 158 

SANDWICHES. 

Cheese  Sandwiches 159 

Celery  "  159 

Nut  and  Cream  Cheese  Sandwiches 159 

"    Sandwiches 160 

Whole  Wheat  Bread  and  Peanut  Sandwiches 160 

Olive  Sandwiches 160 

SUNDRIES. 

Crackers  and  Cheese,  Toasted 161 

"         with  Cream  Cheese  and  Guava  Jelly 161 

Welsh  Rarebit 161 

Cheese  Souffle 161 

Straws 161 

177 


PAGE 

Pate  a  Chou,  for  Soups 162 

A  Filling  for  Patties 162 

Gruel  of  Kernel  Flour  or  Middlings 162 

Koumyss 163 

Home-made  Baking  Powder 163 

Vanilla  Extract 163 

Sugar 163 

Spinach,  for  Coloring 164 

Tomato  Paste,  for  Sandwiches ...  164 

Cheese  "         "  "  164 

MISCELLANEOUS    RECIPES. 

Tooth  Powder 165 

Japanese  Cream 165 

Orange  Flower  Lotion,  for  the  Complexion 165 

Bay  Rum 165 

Fine  Lavender  Water 166 

Good  Hard  Soap 166 

PoUsh  for  Hard  or  Stained  Wood  Floors 166 


