ft] 


cHo  y^^ >:/;?-£" 


t 


c^ 


From  sUreoyraph,  copyright  by  Underwood 


A  CARNIVOROUS  ANIMAL  AND  HER   P 


THE  GOLDEN  RULE 

COOK  BOOK 

SIX  HUNDRED  RECIPES  FOR 
MEATLESS  DISHES.  ORIGINATED 
COLLECTED  AND  ARRANGED  BY 
M.  R.  L.  SHARPE.  NEW  EDITION 
PUBLISHED  BY  LITTLE,  BROWN, 
AND  COMPANY,   BOSTON.  1912 


^i/(l  IM 


<^H- 


<i 


Copyright,  1907, 1910, 

By  M.   R,   L.  Shahpe 

Entered  at  Stationers'  Hall,  London 

All  rights  reserved 


-i</'^i,    -r^  J,f 


The  Uniyerstty  Press,  Cambridge,  U.S.A. 


It    was    Margaret    More    who    said,    "The 
world    needs    not    so   much   to   be   taught,   as 

REMINDED."        MaY    THIS     BOOK    REMIND     MANY    OF 

THE  Love  they  owe  to  every  living  creature 


^ND  God  said.  Behold,  I  have  given 
you  every  herb  bearing  seed,  which  is  upon 
the  face  of  all  the  earth,  and  every  tree,  in 
the  which  is  the  fruit  of  a  tree  yielding 
seed;  to  you  it  shall  be  for  meat. 

And  to  every  beast  of  the  earth,  and  to 
every  fowl  of  the  air,  and  to  every  thing 
that  creepeth  upon  the  earth,  wherein  there 
is  life,  I  have  given  every  green  herb  for 
meat;  and  it  was  so. 

Genesis  i.  29,  30 


CONTENTS 


Page 

INTRODUCTION 11 

THE  KITCHEN 29 

THE  DINING  ROOM 35 

SUGGESTIVE  COMMENTS 39 

SOUPS 45 

VEGETABLES 79 

VEGETABLE  COMBINATIONS 167 

NUT  DISHES 17T 

RICE,  MACARONI,  ETC 185 

CROQUETTES 197 

TIMBALES  AND  PATTIES 209 

SAUCES 217 

EGGS 231 

CHEESE 249 

SALADS 257 

SAVOURIES 273 

SANDWICHES 281 

PASTRY,  PATTY  CASES,   ETC 287 

A  FEW  HOT  BREADS 293 

PLUM   PUDDING  AND  MINCE   PIE 299 

MENUS 303 

INDEX 315 


viii  Contents 

Page 

SAVOURIES.    .     • 273 

SANDWICHES 281 

PASTRY,  PATTY  CASES,  ETC 287 

A  FEW  HOT  BREADS 293 

PLUM  PUDDING  AND  MINCE  PIE 299 

MENUS " 303 

INDEX 315 


JL^ET  none  falter  who  thinks  he  is  right, 

Abraham  Lincoln. 


INTRODUCTION 


Ti 


HE  arranging  of  this  help  for  those  who  are  seeking  to 
obey  the  call  to  a  higher  humanitarianism,  which  is  put 
forth  by  non-flesh-eating  men  and  women,  has  been  a 
labour  of  love:  the  labour,  the  result  of  an  earnest  en- 
deavour to  so  write  the  receipts  that  *'the  way-faring 
woman  may  not  err  therein,"  the  love,  of  a  kind  whose 
integrity  may  not  be  questioned,  since  it  has  inspired  to 
the  never  easy  task  of  going  against  the  stream  of  habit 
and  custom,  and  to  individual  effort  in  behalf  of  the 
myriads  of  gentle  and  amenable  creatures,  which  an  an- 
imality  that  defiles  the  use  of  the  word  has  accustomed 
man  to  killing  and  eating. 

The  name  Vegetarian  has  come  to  mean  one  who 
abstains  from  animal  flesh  as  food ;  and,  as  some  designa- 
tion is  necessary,  it  is  perhaps  a  suflSciently  suitable  one. 
This  term  did  not,  however,  originally  classify  those 
who  used  a  bloodless  diet,  but  is  derived  from  the  Latin 
Homo  Vegitus,  which  words  described  to  the  Romans  a 
strong,  vigorous  man.  The  definition  of  the  word  Vegi- 
tus,  as  given  in  Thomas  Holyoke's  Latin  Dictionary,  is 
"whole,  sound,  quick,  fresh,  lively,  lusty,  gallant,  trim, 
brave,'*  and  of  Vegito,  "to  refresh,  to  re-create."  Profes- 
sor Mayor  of  England  adds  to  these  definitions:  "The 
word  Vegetarian  belongs  to  an  illustrious  family;  veg- 
etable, which  has  been  called  its  mother,  is  really  its 
niece." 


12  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 


The  word  has  unfortunately  become  intermingled  with 
various  dietetic  theories,  but  the  Vegetarian  who  is  one 
because  his  conscience  for  one  reason  or  another  condemns 
the  eating  of  flesh,  occupies  a  very  different  place  in  the 
world  of  ethics  from  one  who  is  simply  refraining  from 
meat  eating  in  an  effort  to  cure  bodily  ills. 

Indeed,  the  dyspeptic  frequenting  the  usual  Vegetarian 
restaurant  has  little  opportunity  to  know  much  about 
vegetables  as  food,  the  menu  being,  as  a  rule,  so  crowded 
with  various  mixtures  which  are  supposedly  "meat  sub- 
stitutes "  that  vegetables  pure  and  simple  find  small  place. 
This  book  contains  no  meat  substitutes,  as  such,  but 
receipts  for  the  palatable  preparation  of  what  is  called  by 
many  "live  foods,"  —  that  is,  food  which  has  no  blood  to 
shed  and  does  not,  therefore,  become  dead  before  it  can 
be  eaten. 

There  will  also  be  found  lacking  from  the  index  such 
dishes  as  "Vegetarian  Hamburg  Steak,"  "Pigeon  Pie, 
Vegetarian  style,"  etc.,  which  should  repel  rather  than 
attract,  by  bringing  to  mind  what  Bernard  Shaw  has 
graphically  spoken  of  as  "scorched  carcasses." 

It  has  been  proven  by  myself  and  my  household  that 
flesh  eating  may  be  safely  stopped  in  one  day  with  no 
injury  to  health  or  strength,  and  that  a  table  supplied 
from  the  receipts  in  this  book  can  make  those  whom  it 
furnishes  with  food  well  and  strong  as  far  as  food  can 
make  them  so. 

There  are  many  reasons  why  thoughtful,  cleanly, 
humane  people  should  not  feed  upon  animals,  but  there 
is  a  surprising  deafness  to  this  fact  shown  by  the  ma- 
jority of  those  active  in  humane  charities.  One  mar- 
vels to  see  hundreds  of  consecrated  workers  in  session, 
putting  forth  every  effort  for  the  enacting  of  laws  for  the 


hitroduction  1 3 


amelioration  of  the  sufferings  of  cattle  travelling  to 
slaughter  by  car  and  ship,  who  are  still  content  to  patronise 
the  butcher  shop  to  buy  food  supplied  by  the  dead  bodies 
of  these  tortured  victims  of  a  false  appetite.  Mere 
thoughtlessness  can  make  the  kindest  act  cruelly  incon- 
sistent, for  I  once  saw  a  woman  presiding  at  a  meeting 
held  to  discountenance  the  wearing  of  aigrettes  with  a 
sheaf  of  them  decorating  her  bonnet.  This  looks  much 
like  receiving  stolen  goods  while  denouncing  theft. 

It  is  well  to  write,  and  legislate,  and  pray  for  better  and 
kinder  treatment  of  these  frightened,  thirst-maddened, 
tortured  creatures  on  their  journey  to  our  tables,  but  the 
surest,  quickest  way  to  help  (and  this  can  be  done  even 
while  continuing  to  work  for  the  alleviation  of  their 
sufferings)  is  to  stop  feeding  upon  them. 

In  a  recent  issue  of  a  paper  devoted  to  humane  matters 
there  is  an  indignant  protest  against  the  sufferings  en- 
dured by  crated  chickens  in  a  certain  market,  and  another 
article  deplores  the  cruelty  shown  to  turtles  in  the  same 
place,  but  when  we  know  the  writers  of  these  protests  to 
be  still  willing  to  use  these  creatures  on  their  tables,  it  is 
not  always  easy  to  fully  credit  their  tender-heartedness. 
In  another  such  paper  there  appear  from  year  to  year 
sentimental  pictures  and  poems  extolling  the  kindliness 
and  virtues  of  "the  cattle  upon  a  thousand  hills,"  while 
those  same  pages  print  instructions  on  the  most  humane 
way  of  slaying  them,  giving  as  a  reason  for  the  sudden 
and  painless  death  described  that  suffering  "poisons  the 
meat." 

The  favourite  phrase,  "our  four-footed  friends,"  seems 
rather  an  anachronism  in  the  face  of  our  acknowledged 
relations  to  them  as  eater  and  eaten,  for  the  phrase  in- 
dicates a  mutual  pact  of  friendship,  which,  however  well 


14  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


sustained  by  them,  is  dishonoured  by  man ;  for  even  canni- 
bals, we  are  told,  sink  no  lower  than  to  eat  their  foes. 

The  demand  for  butcher's  meat  may  not  seem  materially 
lessened  because  I  do  not  eat  it,  but  it  is  lessened  notwith- 
standing, and  I  rejoice  to  know  that  in  the  past  seven 
years  my  abstinence  from  flesh  must  have  resulted  in  a 
little  less  slaughter,  and  I  am  glad  to  have  reduced  by 
even  one  drop  the  depth  of  that  ocean  of  blood.  I  have 
heard  the  Biblical  statement  that  man  was  to  have 
dominion  over  all  the  earth  quoted  as  a  justification  for 
the  eating  of  the  lower  animals.  We  will  some  day  be  so 
civilised  that  we  will  recognise  the  great  truth  that 
dominion  implies  care,  and  guardianship,  and  protection 
rather  than  the  right  to  destroy. 

The  first  objection  voiced  against  Vegetarianism  is  not 
usually  against  its  principle,  but  its  practice ;  we  are  told 
that  the  refusal  to  eat  meat  causes  inconvenience,  and  that 
it  is  best  to  "eat  what  is  set  before  you,  asking  no  questions 
for  conscience's  sake."  I  could  respect  the  position  of 
one  who  literally  believed  and  consistently  acted  on  this 
mandate,  but  where  in  Christendom  can  he  be  found .? 
Few  of  us  could  or  would  eat  the  flesh  of  a  pet  lamb,  or 
partake  knowingly  of  horse  flesh,  or  could  or  would  feel 
called  upon  to  dine  on  these  lines  with  the  peoples  who 
eat  dog,  or  with  so-called  cannibals.  The  host  might 
have  secured,  in  a  broad  spirit  of  hospitality,  just  the 
particular  carcass  which  most  pleased  his  own  palate,  but 
courtesy  seldom  forces  us  to  eat  any  flesh  other  than  the 
sorts  to  which  our  own  habits  have  accustomed  us. 

There  is  a  well-known  story  of  an  American  statesman 
who  was  reared  by  Vegetarian  parents  in  the  country,  and 
taken  while  still  a  small  boy  to  dine  at  a  neighbour's. 
During  the  progress  of  the  meal  a  large  platter  was  borne 


Introduction  1 5 


into  the  room,  on  which  lay  something  the  Hke  of  which 
he  had  not  seen  on  any  table.  He  stared  in  wonder,  and 
finally  located  the  resemblance  and  shouted,  "Why, 
mother,  if  that  isn't  a  dead  hen!"  Habit  had  not  over- 
come his  horror  of  that  particular  dead  thing  as  food,  as 
it  w^ould  have  done  had  he  seen  dead  hens  served  as  food 
all  his  life. 

As  to  the  inconvenience  caused  my  friends  when  I  am 
at  their  tables,  I  consider  it  of  such  small  consequence 
compared  to  the  fact  that  even  one  child  should  be  stand- 
ing almost  knee-deep  in  blood  in  some  slaughter-house, 
working  to  supply  my  wants,  that  it  is  not  worth  a  second 
thought.  No  one  need  go  hungry  from  any  well-planned 
dinner,  even  though  no  extra  preparation  has  been  made 
for  the  non-meat-eating  guest ;  but  if  my  hostess  knows  in 
advance  that  I  do  not  eat  meat,  and  wishes  to  have  pre- 
pared an  especial  dish,  I  give  her  the  benefit  of  the  doubt, 
and  believe  that  she  is  as  pleased  to  do  it  as  I  would  be 
in  her  place.  We  like  to  take  a  little  extra  trouble  to 
entertain  our  friends,  and  the  thought  expended  to  give 
others  pleasure  is  perhaps  the  real  joy  of  hospitality. 

Another  class  of  objector  likes  to  remind  us  that  we 
take  life  when  we  eat  vegetables,  or  drink,  or  breathe.  A 
friend,  who  has  since  ceased  to  consider  the  unnecessary 
and  cruel  slaughtering  of  thousands  of  creatures  daily  a 
fit  subject  for  joking,  once  sent  me  in  raillery  a  sonnet 
which  rehearsed  the  sad  death  suffered  by  a  cabbage  to 
satisfy  a  Vegetarian's  selfish  cravings.  I  find  no  qualms 
in  my  own  conscience  on  this  subject,  but  should  I  ever 
come  to  feel  as  these  over-sensitive  claim  I  should,  I  hope 
I  will  not  then  eat  even  the  "innocent  cabbage." 

Again,  if  the  germs  in  the  water  we  drink  and  the  air 
we  breathe  do  die  by  reason  of  our  drinking  and  breath- 


i6  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 


ing  I  endure  no  self-condemnation.  Man  cannot  be  re- 
quired to  do  the  impossible  by  any  Principle  of  Good,  and 
to  do  each  day  what  good  he  is  able  to  do,  to  avoid  the 
evil  he  can  avoid,  and  in  every  difficulty  choose  what  he 
thinks  to  be  the  lesser  of  two  evils,  is  perhaps  as  much  as 
even  Divine  Love  expects  of  him  to-day. 

It  is  well  to  face  the  unpleasant  fact  that  there  are 
occasions  when  in  our  present  state  of  development  it 
seems  necessary  to  kill  in  self-defence,  as  it  were,  moths, 
rats,  etc.;  but  even  in  this  we  can  "do  our  best,"  and  it 
has  been  well  said,  "angels  can  do  no  more."  We  can 
by  care  in  our  households  greatly  reduce  this  necessity, 
and  we  can  always  see  that  no  creatures,  although  destroy- 
ing our  property,  pilfering  or  stealing,  are  in  their  death 
made  to  suffer.  In  this  connection  I  would  urge  every  one 
who  reads  these  lines  to  never  permit  a  piece  of  sticky 
fly-paper  to  be  brought  into  the  house,  for  of  all  cruel 
ways  of  destruction,  this  slow  method,  by  which  the 
unfortunate  fly  almost  dismembers  itself  in  its  frantic 
efforts  to  escape,  is  one  of  the  most  fiendishly  contrived. 

An  advocate  of  Vegetarianism  has  truly  said,  "A 
vegetable  diet  is  as  little  connected  with  weakness  and 
cowardice  as  meat  eating  is  with  physical  force  and 
courage."  That  Vegetarians  are  not  physical  weaklings  is 
no  mere  matter  of  opinion,  but  is  proven  by  the  giant 
Japanese  wrestlers;  the  ancient  Greek  wrestlers;  those 
Indian  regiments  of  the  British  army  showing  most  endur- 
ance ;  by  the  peasantry  of  the  world,  which  is  seldom  able 
to  afford  meat,  and  above  all,  by  those  famous  Vegetarians 
who  march  around  the  globe  doing  the  work  carnivorous 
man  is  too  weak  to  do,  —  the  horse,  the  ox,  the  camel,  and 
the  elephant.  One  of  our  best-known  cooking  teachers 
and  food  experts  printed  this  statement  not  long  ago: 


Introduction  1 7 


"While  meat  seems  necessary  to  the  rapid  development  of 
the  American,  I  must  contend  that  a  well-selected  vege- 
table diet  will  give  greater  health,  bodily  vigour,  and 
mental  strength,"  which  would  seem  contradictory,  for 
even  an  American  would  not  seem  to  require  other  food 
than  that  which  will  give  him  greatest  health,  bodily 
vigour,  and  mental  strength. 

Nor  have  we  cause  to  feel  ashamed  of  the  mentality  of 
the  guests  at  Ceres'  table,  which  is  graced  by  a  goodly 
company;  the  list  of  names  encircling  the  cover  of  "The 
Vegetarian  Magazine"  reads,  "Adam,  Hesiod,  Gautama, 
Isaiah,  Daniel,  Plato,  Zoroaster,  Aristotle,  Seneca,  Ovid, 
Plutarch,  Pope,  Swedenborg,  Leonardo  da  Vinci,  Voltaire, 
Franklin,  Westley,  Linnseus,  Shelley,  Tolstoi,  and  King 
Oscar  11."  Others  are  Bernard  Shaw,  and  Maurice 
Maeterlinck  (who  is  said  to  have  become  a  non-meat 
eater  to  gain  greater  endurance  for  his  favourite  pastime 
of  mountain  climbing),  Richard  Wagner,  and  General 
Booth. 

But  after  all,  the  one  great  argument  for  a  fleshless  diet 
is  the  humanitarian  one,  and  it  does  not  seem  possible 
that  persons  exist  to-day  who  do  not  know  of  the  horrors 
of  cruelty  which  take  place  hourly,  in  order  that  meat 
may  be  eaten  by  men  and  women  who  could  not  look 
without  sickening  at  the  process  which  has  made  possible 
the  roast  upon  their  tables,  but  who  are  nevertheless  the 
employers  of  every  fainting  child  in  the  stock-yards,  and 
every  brutalised  man  in  the  shambles,  whose  wages  they 
pay  with  every  pound  of  meat  they  buy.  The  real  butcher 
of  an  animal  is  the  one  for  whom  it  receives  its  death 
blow,  not  the  one  who  actually  deals  that  blow. 

A  man  who  recently  visited  some  stock-yards  writes : 
"We  were  sorry  to  see  the  Thor  man  make  mislicks  at  a 

2 


1 8  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


pretty  heifer.  His  first  stroke  did  not  fell  her,  and  she 
staggered  and  looked  at  him  so  wonderingly  and  pathetic- 
ally. He  could  not  strike  her  while  her  head  was  in  that 
position,  and  after  giving  her  two  or  three  more  ineffectual 
blows,  she  looked  at  him  so  reproachfully,  as  if  pleading, 
'  Why  do  you  treat  me  so  cruelly  ?  What  have  I  ever  done 
to  you  .^'  Finally  he  got  her  down  and  out  of  her  misery. 
I  shall  never  take  a  bit  of  steak  on  my  fork  without  seeing 
that  pretty  heifer  lifting  her  stunned  head  to  that  awkward 
pounder." 

Perhaps  nothing  more  revolting  than  this  same  writer's 
remarks  anent  pig-killing  has  been  written,  but  since  the 
words  are  accurately  true,  they  should  be  fit  to  read,  for 
if  the  words  which  tell  the  truth  about  meat  as  food  are 
unfit  for  our  ears,  the  meat  itself  is  not  fit  for  our  mouths. 
He  describes  the  pig-sticking,  the  skinning,  and  the 
process  which  makes  the  pig  into  pork,  and  then  adds: 
"He  goes  into  the  cooling  room,  and  the  whole  effort  from 
that  time  is  to  keep  him  from  crumbling  back  into  dust, 
attacked  by  worms.  Salt  and  brine  and  smoke  and  cold 
prevent  the  corpse  from  utter  dissolution.  The  refriger- 
ator is  a  sort  of  Purgatory  where  the  brute  stays  until  he 
finally  finds  a  cemetery  in  the  human  alimentary  canal." 
Yet  this  man  expects  to  again  have  meat  "on  his  fork"  ! 

The  "Cosmopolitan"  calls  attention  to  the  remarkable 
procession  daily  passing  through  a  certain  slaughter-house, 
as  follows:  "Imagine  a  procession  of  10,000  cattle  march- 
ing two  by  two,  in  a  line  fifteen  miles  long;  let  20,000 
sheep  follow  them,  bleating  along  twelve  miles  of  road; 
after  them  drive  sixteen  miles  of  hogs,  27,000  strong ;  then 
let  30,000  fowls  bring  up  the  rear,  clucking  and  quack- 
ing and  gobbling,  over  a  space  of  six  miles;  and  in  this 
whole  caravan,  stretching  for  nearly  fifty  miles  and  re- 


Introduction  1 9 


quiring  two  days  to  pass  a  given  point,  you  will  see  the 

animals  devoted  to  death  in  the  packing  houses  of 

&  Co.  in  a  single  day.  Surely  a  Buddhist  would  think 
that  the  head  of  that  establishment  had  much  to  answer 
for.  Never  before  in  the  world's  history  was  a  massacre 
of  the  innocents  organised  on  such  a  stupendous  scale  or 
with  such  scientific  system." 

People  are  suprisingly  callous  to  the  sufferings  of  those 
animals  destined  to  become  food.  Recently  some  well- 
dressed,  well-mannered  men  were  on  a  train  returning 
East  from  a  Western  visit,  and  the  train  coming  to  a  stand- 
still for  some  reason,  their  conversation  was  plainly  over- 
heard by  their  fellow-passengers.  They  were  discussing 
a  visit  to  the  stock-yards,  and  one  of  them,  quite  convulsed 
with  laughter,  cried  out  that  he  really  thought  the  most 
comical  sight  he  had  seen  while  away,  in  fact  one  of  the 
funniest  things  he  had  seen  in  his  whole  life,  was  the  antics 
of  a  pig  "which  had  escaped  out  of  the  scalding  pen!" 
The  pig- sticker  had  evidently  been  as  awkward  that  time 
as  the  man  who  missed  the  pretty  heifer. 

It  is  daily  less  possible  to  buy  turkeys  and  chickens 
minus  their  heads.  The  delicate  death  without  the  use  of 
the  old-time  axe  (which  we  degraded  men  and  women 
have  thought  a  pretty  symbol  to  place  on  Thanksgiving 
Day  table  cards)  is  brought  about  by  hanging  the  fowls 
up  by  the  feet,  in  what  fright  can  be  imagined,  an  in- 
cision is  then  made  in  the  roof  of  the  mouth,  and  after 
bleeding  to  death,  which,  as  in  the  case  of  calves  or  veal, 
insures  solid  white  flesh,  they  are  served  as  food  to  dainty 
women  who  can  scarcely  bear  to  kill  a  fly,  and  alas !  to 
some  members  of  the  societies  for  the  Prevention  of 
Cruelty  to  Animals ! 

One  crate  of  chickens  can  encase  more  suffering  than  I 


2  0  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


want  endured  for  me.  There  is  first  the  terror  in  capture, 
then  the  suffering  of  being  thrust,  legs  often  tied,  in  the 
small  over-crowded  crate,  then  the  journey  in  the  shriek- 
ing train,  and  the  thirst-tortured  hours  in  the  sun  before 
the  final  twist  of  the  neck  or  the  blow  of  the  axe,  given  in 
many  cases  just  before  natural  death  would  render  the 
fowl  unfit  for  sale.  And  such  food,  poisoned  by  fear  and 
suffering,  is  considered  the  most  delicate,  and  thought  fit 
to  feed  to  invalids ! 

That  all  chickens  do  not  endure  the  same  suffering 
before  death  is  no  excuse  for  eating  them,  for  some  will 
have  to  submit  to  it  while  chicken  is  an  article  of  food. 
The  modern  invention  of  fattening  fowl  by  the  machine- 
stuflSng  method,  to  make  what  are  called  in  England 
"Surrey  fowls,"  and  in  America  are  given  various  fancy 
names,  is  so  revolting  that  it  almost  makes  one  faint  to 
read  a  true  account  of  it.  We  are  selfishly  prone  to  com- 
fort ourselves  when  these  things  are  brought  to  our  notice 
with  the  thought  that  the  lower  creatures  do  not  suffer  as 
we  would.  The  fact  is  that  no  two  live  beings  suffer  the 
same  in  any  event,  physical  or  mental,  but  the  lower 
animal  or  bird  or  fish  suffers  in  its  fear  and  death  all  it  is 
capable  of  suffering,  and  we  have  no  right  to  make  any 
creature  do  this  for  our  pleasure. 

Mr.  E.  Bell  has  written,  ''Dreadful  are  the  revelations 
made  by  humane  men,  who,  setting  aside  personal  com- 
fort and  peace  of  mind,  have  endeavoured  to  sound  the 
depths  of  animal  agony  and  bloodshed.  The  process  of 
flaying  alive,  and  even  of  dismembering  animals  before 
the  breath  has  left  their  bodies,  is  far  from  uncommon  in 
private  slaughter-houses." 

When  we  witness  the  cruelty  to  horses  on  our  streets, 
though  they  are  property  which  the  most  unwise  would 


Introduction  2 1 


naturally  seek  to  care  for,  we  can  only  imagine  what  must 
chance  to  the  unfortunate  creatures,  already  condemned 
to  death  and  only  regarded  as  food,  at  the  hands  of  the 
hardened  men  whose  miserable  lot  it  is  to  be  employed 
by  Christendom  to  do  its  most  evil  work. 

In  a  pamphlet  called  "An  Epitome  of  Vegetarianism" 
C.  P.  Newcombe  writes:  "Our  opponents  are  quick  to 
point  out  the  supposed  resemblance  between  the  canine 
teeth  of  man  and  those  of  the  carnivora,  forgetting  that 
they  are  even  more  prominent  in  the  ape,  the  horse,  and 
the  camel.  We  accept  the  challenge  and  appeal  for  an 
authoritative  statement  of  the  facts  to  the  great  masters  of 
science,  among  whom  there  is  complete  agreement,  viz., 
that  expressed  by  Baron  Cuvier,  the  Professor  of  Natural 
History  in  the  College  of  France,  v*^ho  wrote  in  'The 
Animal  Kingdom,'  vol.  i,  page  88:  'Fruits,  roots,  and 
the  other  succulent  parts  of  vegetables  appear  to  be  the 
natural  food  of  man;  his  hands  afford  him  a  facility  for 
gathering  them,  and  his  short  and  comparatively  weak 
jaws,  his  short  canine  teeth,  not  passing  beyond  the  com- 
mon line  of  others,  and  his  tuberculous  cheek  teeth  would 
not  permit  him  either  to  feed  upon  herbage  or  devour 
flesh  unless  these  aliments  were  previously  prepared  by 
the  culinary  process.'  Similar  opinions  are  expressed  by 
Sir  Charles  Bell,  F.  R.  S.,  Prof.  William  Lawrence,  F.  R.  S., 
Sir  Richard  Owen,  K.  C.  B.,  F.  R.  S.,  and  Dr.  Charles 
Darwin,  with  many  others." 

While  interesting  in  stating  a  case,  this  interests  me  as 
an  argument  but  little,  for  if  we  were  carnivorously  made, 
with  our  minds,  our  hearts,  our  capacity  for  love  and 
charity,  and  that  great  hope  we  have  of  finally  manifesting 
the  perfection  of  the  sons  of  God,  we  still  should  control 
our  tendencies  by  a  higher  law,  and  no  more  be  carnivorous 


2  2  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


than  we  are  apes,  or  marauders,  or  any  other  mental  or 
physical  manifestation  from  which  spiritual  evolution  has 
lifted  us  high. 

But  this  humanitarianism  does  not  consider  alone  the 
animals  slaughtered,  but  the  men,  women,  and  children 
who  do  this  revolting  work.  One  packing-house  in  the 
West  advertises  over  18,000  employees;  multiply  this  by 
thousands  and  one  can  estimate  the  numbers  of  human 
beings  who  are  thus  degraded  and  brutalised.  In  my  own 
household  I  have  made  it  a  point  of  honour  to  demand  no 
labour  which  I  would  not  be  willing  to  do  myself ;  I  might 
fail  in  strength,  but  morally  I  would  be  willing  to  under- 
take any  work  required  by  me,  and  from  the  day  I  realised 
what  I  required  from  others  if  I  ate  meat,  I  became  an 
abstainer  from  it,  for  no  surer  ethical  truth  can  be  stated 
than  that  we  have  no  moral  right  to  demand  from  the 
hands  of  another,  work  we  would  not  be  willing  to 
undertake  ourselves. 

Mr.  Henry  Salt  has  written,  "Of  all  recognised  occupa- 
tions, the  work  which  is  looked  upon  with  the  greatest 
loathing  (next  to  the  hangman's)  is  that  of  the  butcher  — 
the  trade  of  doing  to  death  countless  numbers  of  in- 
offensive and  highly  organised  creatures,  amid  scenes  of 
indescribable  filth  and  ferocity  —  is  delegated  to  a  pariah 
class  of  slaughter-men,  who  are  thus  themselves  made  the 
victims  of  a  grievous  social  wrong." 

So  large  a  percentage  of  the  murderers  of  to-day  have 
been  butchers,  they  or  their  fathers  before  them,  that 
these  statistics  alone  constitute  a  sujQScient  argument  for 
Vegetarianism. 

Man's  inhumanity  to  himself  in  this  matter  of  flesh 
eating  is  rapidly  being  uncovered  by  meat  inspectors, 
food  experts,  and  hundreds  of  physicians  the  world  over. 


Introduction  2  3 


The  statistics  comparing  meat-eating  and  non-meat- 
eating  races  with  regard  to  tuberculosis,  cancer,  appendi- 
citis, etc.,  are  of  the  greatest  interest  to  those  who  care  not 
only  for  the  health  but  for  the  mere  cleanness  of  their 
bodies. 

Dr.  B.  W.  Richardson,  in  a  book  called  "The  Field 
of  Disease,"  says:  "In  Jewish  communities  there  are  a 
number  of  men  set  apart  to  act  as  inspectors  of  animal 
food.  They  attend  at  the  slaughter-houses,  and  after  an 
animal  is  slain  and  dressed  they  submit  it  to  inspection; 
then,  unless  they  put  upon  it  their  sign,  that  it  is  free  from 
disease,  it  is  not  permitted  to  enter  a  Jewish  family.  It 
enters  into  the  families  outside  the  Jewish  community, 
so  that  we  who  are  not  Jews  actually  accept  into  our 
bodies  food  which  the  Jews  have  rejected  as  diseased." 

The  statistics  taken  from  two  small  abattoirs  alone,  for 
one  year,  as  given  by  a  secretary  of  one  Jewish  ecclesiastical 
board  are  as  follows: 

Total  oxen  killed 22,308 

Diseased i  7,885 

Total  calves  killed 3,330 

Diseased 705 

Total  sheep  killed 41,556 

Diseased 13,019 

According  to  this  very  nearly  one-third  of  all  the  meat 
sold  to  Christian  families  is  tainted  by  parasitical  disease. 
If  an  animal  dies  of  cancer,  tuberculosis,  etc.,  our  laws 
protect  us  from  the  carcass,  but,  if  slaughtered,  the  dis- 
eased portion  is  cut  away  and  the  remainder  is  sold  as  fit 
for  food.  Such  blood  is  squeezed  from  beef  and  poured 
by  the  gallon  by  loving  hands  into  the  willing  lips  of 
consumptives  and  anaemics ! 


2  4  Golde7t   Rule  Cook-Book 


The  true  Vegetarian  will  not  be  seen  adorned  ( ?)  by 
any  of  the  reapings  from  a  dead  body,  whether  they  be 
feathers  or  furs,  for  these  have  no  beauty  in  the  sight  of 
those  who  see  them  in  thought,  dripping  with  the  blood 
from  which  they  can  never  be  truly  cleansed. 

Those  who  would  "strain  at  gnats"  while  swallowing 
camels,  criticise  the  Vegetarian  for  his  kid  gloves  and  his 
leather  shoes;  but  perfect  conditions  do  not  yet  prevail 
for  the  absolutely  consistent  carrying  out  of  his  principles ; 
his  effort  is  to  help  to  bring  these  to  pass,  and  he  does  not 
refrain  from  beginning  for  the  reason  that  he  cannot  yet 
do  all.  An  adequate  substitute  for  leather  has  been  made 
which  experiments  have  proven  of  value,  but,  as  yet,  there 
is  no  demand  which  justifies  its  manufacture. 

Many  express  the  fear  that,  were  w^holesale  slaughter 
abolished,  the  earth  would  be  overrun  by  the  low^er 
animals;  but  were  artificial  and  unnatural  breeding 
discontinued  we  can  safely  trust  that  the  animal  creation 
would  find  its  proper  place  in  the  world,  as  everything 
does,  under  the  guidance  of  the  controlling  Mind  which 
is  Creator. 

Stop  and  think  for  a  moment  what  the  world  would  be 
like  to-day  if  it  were  Vegetarian.  If  the  world  were  Vege- 
tarian, the  endless  caravans  of  doomed  creatures  would 
not  be  ambling  to  the  shambles;  not  a  man  would  be 
brutalised  by  the  daily  slaughter  of  hundreds  of  gentle 
creatures;  not  a  woman  would  be  engaged  in  sorting 
edible  parts  from  the  dissected  carcasses,  making  all 
red  around  her;  not  a  child  would  be  standing  deep  in 
offal,  seeking  useful  bits  of  dead  bodies;  '* where  sym- 
pathy is,  cruelty  is  impossible,"  therefore,  not  a  dog 
would  be  maltreated,  not  a  cat  selfishly  deserted  to  starve, 
not  a  horse  cruelly  beaten,  and  not  a  vivisectionist  could 


Introduction  2  5 


be  found  on  the  face  of  the  earth  !  Those  who  had  learned 
to  be  just  to  the  lower  animals  would  not  fail  in  their 
duties  to  man,  and  in  this'  millennium,  prophesied  in 
Isaiah  xi:  9,  slaughter-houses,  transport  cars,  and  cattle- 
ships  would  be  empty,  and  the  fields  and  meadows  would 
be  filled  with  labourers  under  the  clear  sky,  tilling  the 
ground  to  provide  the  food  of  man. 

M.  R.  L.  S. 

Providence  House,  Chestnut  Hill,  Mass. 


1  DO  not  see  how  it  is 
possible  that  so  many  good 
people  remain  meat-eaters. 
Count  Leo  Tolstoi. 


THE    KITCHEN 


T 


HERE  is  no  room  in  the  house  which  requires  such 
careful  furnishing  as  the  kitchen,  and  much  time  may  be 
saved  there  if  the  right  thing  is  in  the  right  place,  for  just 
as  truly  as  "the  means  to  do  ill  deeds  make  ill  deeds  done," 
do  the  means  to  do  things  well  tend  toward  their  being 
done. 

To  house-builders  I  would  urge  that  it  pays  to  have  a 
white  enamelled  sink,  and  to  insist  that  no  sand-soap  or 
scouring  soap  be  used  on  it,  as  this  removes  the  finish  and 
makes  it  less  easy  to  keep  it  spotless.  See  that  a  package 
of  one  of  the  cleaning  powders  is  placed  near  the  sink, 
convenient  for  use  the  first  time  the  maid  looks  about  for 
materials,  and  over  the  sink  on  small  hooks  have  hung 
two  or  three  different  shaped  sink  brushes.  An  enamelled 
soap-dish  should  be  fastened  above  the  sink,  and  on  the  left 
of  it  a  grooved,  slightly  slanting  draining  board  for  washed 
dishes ;  hanging  under  this  on  a  large  hook  should  be  the 
enamelled  dishpan  and  back  of  it  a  wire  drainer,  both 
hanging  free  from  the  wall. 

Any  kitchen  can  have  a  chair-rail  put  around  it,  and  this 
four-inch  wide  board  should  be  arranged  with  small  hooks 
placed  at  a  distance  of  ten  or  twelve  inches  apart,  and  on 
these  should  hang  the  enamelled  spoons,  strainers,  egg- 
beater,  small  jugs,  and  the  saucepans,  the  bottoms  of 
these  being  always  in  evidence  and  not  out  of  sight  in 
cupboards.    The  Europeans  have  always  had  their  cook- 


30  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 

ing  utensils  displayed  as  a  part  of  the  kitchen  furnishing, 
and  when  this  is  done  there  is  less  temptation  to  neglect 
their  absolute  cleanliness. 

One  of  the  comforts  of  my  kitchen  is  a  holder  for 
saucepan  covers;  I  was  about  to  invent  such  a  holder 
when  I  found  that  the  wire  ones  made  to  display  half  a 
dozen  handsome  plates  were  perfectly  suitable.  One  of 
these  hangs  beside  the  stove  and  the  covers  are  con- 
veniently at  hand  when  required. 

A  cupboard  built  in  the  kitchen,  sixteen  inches  deep 
and  six  feet  across,  will  hold  all  the  casseroles,  baking-pans, 
tins  for  spices,  etc.,  which  the  usual  family  requires.  Mine 
was  built  with  this  conviction,  and  if  it  becomes  over- 
crowded, I  know  it  has  things  in  it  which  do  not  belong 
there,  and  a  few  moments  given  to  overseeing  its  rearrange- 
ment always  leave  it  with  all  the  space  required. 

The  table  shown  in  the  illustration  is  becoming  well- 
known  in  American  kitchens ;  the  deep  drawers  for  flour, 
etc.,  are  a  convenience  not  easy  to  estimate,  but  the  fact 
that  two  sizes  of  pastry  boards  slide  snugly  into  their 
places  under  the  top  is  its  best  feature. 

A  ball  of  string  in  a  holder  hung  up  with  small  scissors 
attached,  a  neat  calendar,  a  washable  tablet  for  orders,  a 
burnt- match  holder,  a  match-box  holder  fastened  near 
the  stove,  a  small  mirror  on  a  door  or  in  an  inconspicu- 
ous corner,  and  a  wall  clock  are  things  which  I  advise 
the  young  housekeeper  to  see  securely  placed  in  her 
kitchen  before  the  pictures  are  hung  in  the  drawing- 
room. 

A  plate-rack  is  not  only  always  quaint  and  decorative, 
but  is  most  useful  and  labour-saving.  A  pestle  and  mor- 
tar should  be  among  the  utensils  of  every  kitchen,  as  well 
as  a  vegetable  mill,  and  a  small  hard-wood  board,  used 


The   Kitchen  3  i 


exclusively  for  the  cutting  of  fruit,  vegetables,  etc.,  which 
are  to  be  sliced,  saves  many  a  cut  finger,  as  the  plate 
usually  used  is  not  the  proper  shape  or  texture  for  such  a 
slippery  process. 

A  piece  of  thick  glass  measuring  about  7x9  inches,  and 
bound  about  the  edges  with  heavy  gummed  paper  or 
linen,  is  useful  to  lay  upon  the  open  pages  of  the  cook- 
book, and  serves  the  double  purpose  of  holding  it  open  at 
the  required  page  and  of  protecting  it  from  floured  or 
buttered  fingers. 

A  plentiful  supply  of  the  small  earthenware  dishes, 
called  casseroles,  marmites,  ramekins,  and  gratin  dishes, 
is  especially  useful  in  the  Vegetarian's  kitchen. 

Those  building  homes  should  see  that  the  place  on 
which  the  stove  is  to  stand  is  covered  with  suitable  tiling, 
and  this  should  extend  for  two  feet  or  more  around  the 
stove.  The  floor  itself  is  best  covered  with  linoleum, 
and  if  a  colour  scheme  is  carried  out  in  this  room,  as  it 
may  well  be  in  these  days  of  many-coloured  enamelled 
ware,  it  can  be  accented  by  the  linoleum  chosen  and  the 
kitchen  thus  made  as  beautiful  for  its  purpose  as  any 
room  in  the  house. 


I  HAVE  not  partaken  of 
a  fellow  creature  for  fifteen 
years.  —  Bernard    Shaw. 


THE   DINING    ROOM 


IF  a  breakfast  room  is  not  used,  a  small  winged  table 
set  in  a  sunny  corner,  or  bay-window  recess  of  the  dining 
room,  and  used  as  a  breakfast  table,  is  an  improvement 
upon  breakfast  at  the  large  dining  table,  and  can  be 
arranged  in  almost  any  dining  room. 

If  pictures  are  hung  in  this  room  nothing  less  appropriate 
than  those  usually  chosen  as  fit  subjects  for  its  walls  can 
be  imagined.  Engravings  showing  the  gentle  deer  hunted 
to  his  death,  with  the  dog's  fangs  already  buried  in  his 
flesh,  stuffed  heads  of  the  same  animal,  and  paintings  of 
dead  fish,  ducks  or  grouse,  hanging  by  their  feet,  should 
not  give  pleasure  to  or  improve  the  appetites  of  humane 
people.  If  pictures  are  used  let  us  have  those  which 
depict  life,  joy,  kindness,  and  beauty  rather  than  cruelty, 
bloodshed,  and  death. 


A    DINING-ROOM    FIREPLACE 


^MONG  the  noblest  in  the  land. 

Though  he  may  count  himself  the  least. 

That  man  I  honor  and  revere 
Who  without  favor,  without  fear, 

In  the  great  city  dares  to  stand 

The  friend  of  every  friendless  beast. 
Henry  Wadsworth  Longfellow. 


SUGGESTIVE    COMMENTS 


T] 


SEASONING 


HE  subject  of  seasoning  is  indeed  holy  ground  in 
culinary  matters,  and  after  much  thought  and  experiment 
I  have  decided  that  the  phrase  so  deplored  by  young 
housekeepers,  "season  to  taste,"  is  after  all  not  the 
worst  one  to  use.  No  such  inaccurate  directions  were 
to  appear  in  this  cook-book  when  planned,  but  I  have 
finally  decided  with  the  army  of  wiser  cooks  who  have 
preceded  me  that  accurate  measurements  in  seasoning 
are  dangerous  to  success.  Not  only  do  tastes  vary,  but 
much  depends  on  the  time  the  seasoning  is  added,  on  the 
rapidity  with  which  the  food  is  cooking,  etc.  With  this  in 
mind,  and  very  long  prejudice  against  the  old  phrase 
above  mentioned,  I  have  compromised  and  frequently 
been  tempted  to  state  quantities  of  salt  and  pepper, 
usually  regretting  when  I  have.  The  truth  is,  unless  one 
can  "season  to  taste"  one  cannot  cook  palatable  dishes, 
and  my  final  word  on  the  subject  is  that  it  is  well  to  always 
use  a  little  more  salt  and  pepper  than  seems  advisable,  and 
then  just  before  serving  add  a  little  more ! 

MEASURING 

Weights  as  a  means  of  measuring  quantities  have  been 
avoided  in  these  recipes,  as  I  can  see  no  advantage  to  the 
system  which  uses  them,  and  I  have  been  able  to  show 


40  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 


even  English  cooks  that  the  scales  are  not  the  most  neces- 
sary part  of  the  kitchen  furnishing,  and  they  have  become 
devoted  to  our  simple  method  of  using  the  kitchen  cup  as 
the  standard.  It  holds  J  pint,  and  2  cups,  therefore,  hold 
1  pint ;  4  cups  hold  1  quart ;  and  I  find  no  fault  with  the 
old  couplet,  — 

"  A  pint 's  a  pound 
The  world  around." 

It  usually  is,  and  one  cannot  go  far  wrong  in  acting  as 
if  it  always  were. 

THICKENING 

In  thickening  sauces  and  soups,  ordinary  flour  can 
always  be  used  and  cornstarch  also,  and  as  a  rule  I  have 
said  "flour"  only  in  these  recipes,  but  have  only  refrained 
from  always  advising  potato-flour  because  it  would  have 
confused  many  who  cannot  obtain  it  in  America.  In 
Germany  it  is  always  used,  and  when  it  can  be  had  is  far 
nicer  for  thickening  all  vegetable  sauces  and  soups  than 
any  other  sort  of  flour. 


AN   HERB    GARDEN 

No  one  thing  pays  better  for  the  little  trouble  expended 
than  a  small  herb  garden.  Buy  two  or  three  tarragon 
plants,  cover  them  in  the  winter,  and  in  the  autumn  pick 
the  leaves  to  make  vinegar  and  to  dry.  Plant  chervil, 
parsley,  thyme,  chives,  and  a  plant  of  rosemary. 

A  window-box  will  keep  parsley  and  chives  on  hand, 
and  a  clump  of  chives  from  the  market  will  grow  for  weeks 
if  set  in  a  bowl  and  watered  occasionally. 


Suggestive  Comments  4 1 


GELATINE 

Instead  of  the  usual  gelatine  use  must  be  made  of  arrow- 
root or  a  gelatine  advertised  to  be  purely  vegetable.  One 
tablespoon  is  usually  allowed  to  1  pint  of  liquid,  but 
experiments  must  be  made  and  there  will  usually  be 
directions  found  with  the  package. 

FAT   FOR   FRYING 

The  Vegetarian  can  well  afford  to  do  away  with  that 
doubtful  economy,  cooking  butter.  For  ordinary  frying 
use  good  butter ;  for  deep  fat  use  a  good  brand  of  cooking- 
oil,  or  cocoanut  butter. 

CANNED  GOODS 

It  seems  to  be  a  habit  with  many  people  to  decry  the  use 
of  canned  vegetables,  although  I  believe  there  are  few 
households  which  subsist  without  them.  My  experience  is 
that  the  best  grades  of  canned  vegetables  are  often  far 
sweeter  and  better,  fresher  in  fact,  than  vegetables  that 
can  be  bought  in  city  markets.  The  housekeeper  should 
make  it  a  point  to  know  which  brands  she  prefers  and  to 
trade  where  she  can  get  them;  and  where  no  retailer 
carries  them  she  can  usually  obtain  cases  containing  two 
dozen  each  from  the  preservers  themselves.  A  little 
trouble  taken  in  the  autumn  to  stock  the  store-room, 
instead  of  ordering  "a  can  of  peas"  now  and  then  at 
random,  saves  time  and  trouble  in  the  end.  Among  the 
canned  vegetables  which  are  put  up  and  sealed  the  day 
they  are  picked  by  the  best  firms  are  beets,  peas,  corn, 
spinach,  hard-shelled  beans,  tomatoes,  stringless  beans, 


42  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


wax  beans,  mushrooms,  pimentos,  okra,  okra-tomato, 
asparagus,  etc. ;  and  the  saving  of  time  and  labour  in  the 
preparation  of  beans,  spinach,  and  beets  especially,  is 
worth  consideration.  People  make  the  mistake  of  merely 
warming  up  canned  goods  and  then  serving  them,  whereas 
when  the  can  is  opened  the  vegetables  are  only  ready  to 
be  seasoned  and  finished  as  they  would  be  had  they  been 
boiled  at  home.  Good  canned  vegetables  are  not  easy 
to  improve  upon,  and  I  serve  them  constantly  to  people 
who  will  not  easily  credit  my  statement  that  they  are  not 
so-called  "fresh"  vegetables. 


/  WILL  not  kill 
or  hurt  any  living 
creature  needlessly, 
nor  destroy  any  beau- 
tiful thing,  but  will 
strive  to  save  and  com- 
fort all  gentle  life  and 
guard  and  perfect  all 
natural  beauty  upon 
the  earth. 

John  Ruskin. 


SOUPS 


M. 


.OST  clear  soups  can  be  greatly  improved  in  colour 
by  using  a  small  quantity  of  vegetable  soup  browning,  or 
caramel.  Do  not  overdo  it,  however,  as  the  flavour  is  not 
pleasant  when  too  pronounced.  All  cream  soups  should 
be  cooked  in  a  double  boiler. 


VEGETABLE   STOCK 

Few  meat  stocks  have  of  themselves  more  flavour  than 
vegetable  stock,  that  is,  the  water  in  which  vegetables 
have  cooked.  The  water  in  which  rice,  onions,  leeks, 
celery,  beans,  cabbage,  etc.,  have  boiled  is  valuable  in 
Vegetarian  cookery,  and  the  wise  cook  will  use  it  in  many 
ways  to  enhance  the  flavours  of  soups  and  sauces. 


A   SIMPLE   CONSOMME   OR   STOCK 

A  simple  way  of  preparing  a  rich,  clear  consomm^  is  to 
wash  well  J  cup  of  German  lentils,  drain  them  and  toss 
them  for  ten  minutes  in  a  saucepan  in  which  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  has  been  melted.  Then  pour  on  them  5  cups  of 
cold  water,  set  them  over  a  hot  fire,  and  let  them  boil 
rapidly  about  half  an  hour  only.  Drain,  and  strain 
through  a  fine  cloth,  and  return  to  a  clean  saucepan  with 
1  bay  leaf,  1  slice  of  onion,  2  cloves,  and  J  teaspoon  of 


46  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 

celery  seed;    simmer  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a  little  sherry  if  liked. 

If  the  lentils  are  cooked  longer,  it  will  make  a  cloudy 
soup,  which  will  be  stronger  but  not  clear. 


CLEAR   BOUILLON    OR   CONSOMME 

There  are  various  vegetable  extracts  in  the  market 
which,  when  diluted,  make  delicious  stock,  or  clear  soup. 
If  these  are  not  available,  a  clear  vegetable  broth  may 
be  made  as  follows: 

Wash  3  cups  of  any  dried  beans  or  lentils,  and  put  them 
to  soak  in  a  covered  earthenware  dish  with  10  cups  of 
water  for  twelve  hours  or  so.  Then  empty  with  that 
same  water  into  a  kettle,  and  let  come  slowly  to  the  boil- 
ing point,  skim  frequently,  and  do  not  let  it  actually  boil. 
When  clear,  and  there  seems  no  further  need  of  skimming, 
add  1  cup  each  of  cut  onions,  carrots,  turnips,  1  table- 
spoon of  parsley,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  clove  of  garlic, 
and  1  teaspoon  of  thyme,  etc.,  1  tablespoon  of  celery  seed, 
and  1  bay  leaf. 

Let  boil  up  once,  and  then  place  on  the  back  of  the 
stove  to  barely  simmer  for  two  hours ;  then  strain  through 
a  fine  sieve,  and  a  good  broth  is  made.  The  beans,  etc., 
can  be  utilised  in  a  deep  pie,  or  with  brown  or  white  sauce 
in  crust  cups,  in  a  curry,  or  many  other  ways. 

To  make  this  into  a  strong,  clear  soup  put  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when  melted  add 
J  cup  each  of  chopped  onions,  carrots,  turnips,  and  celery, 
^  cloves,  and  a  bit  of  parsley ;  fry  until  somewhat  browned, 
then  cover  with  6  cups  of  the  broth,  and  let  simmer  very 
quietly  for  two  hours.    Skim  often,  drain,  let  cool,  remove 


Soupi 


47 


any  grease  from  the  top,  and  to  clarify  add  to  it,  when 
cold,  the  slightly  beaten  yolk  of  1  egg  and  the  whites  of 
3,  then  set  over  a  hot  fire  and  stir  vigorously,  watching  for 
the  first  sign  of  boiling.  At  this,  remove  to  a  place  where 
it  cannot  even  simmer,  but  will  be  warm  for  half  an  hour, 
and  strain  through  a  fine,  clean  cloth.  A  wineglass  of 
sherry  may  be  added  if  to  be  served  in  cups. 


CREAM    OF   ARTICHOKE 

Scrape  and  slice  enough  Jerusalem  artichokes  to  make 
2  cups,  and  cover  them  with  cold  water.  Let  them  stand 
for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  2  quarts  of  cold  water  or  milk,  or  1  quart  of  each, 
and  let  them  cook  for  an  hour  or  until  thoroughly  soft. 
Now  rub  them  through  a  sieve  with  2  cups  of  the  stock 
in  which  they  cooked,  and  return  to  the  fire.  When  boil- 
ing add  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  of  flour,  rubbed 
together,  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  saltspoon  of  pepper, 
and  cook  about  ten  minutes  before  adding  2  cups  of  hot 
milk,  or  1  cup  of  milk  and  1  cup  of  cream.  Stir  well  and 
let  boil  up  once  before  serving.  A  teaspoon  of  chopped 
parsley  or  chives  improves  the  appearance  and  taste  of 
almost  any  cream  soup. 


CREAM    OF   ARTICHOKE   WITH    NASTURTIUMS 

Make  the  plain  cream  of  artichoke  soup  as  in  preced- 
ing recipe,  and  add  before  straining  1  handful  of  nasturtium 
leaves  and  blossoms ;  or,  instead,  add  1  tablespoon  of  these, 
finely  minced,  to  the  soup  before  serving. 


48  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 


ASPARAGUS  SOUP 

Use  1  can  of  asparagus,  cut  off  the  tips,  and  lay  them 
aside.  Cut  up  the  stalks,  cover  with  4  cups  of  cold  milk 
(or  use  half  water  and  half  milk),  and  let  cook  slowly  in 
a  double  boiler  for  half  an  hour ;  then  strain,  pressing  the 
asparagus  well  to  extract  the  flavour.  Return  to  the 
saucepan,  add  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  into  which  1  teaspoon  of  flour  has  been  made 
smooth,  season  generously  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  the 
asparagus  tips,  1  cup  of  milk,  and,  just  before  serving,  1 
tablespoon  of  whipped  cream.  A  tablespoon  of  minced 
onion  fried  for  ten  minutes  in  butter  is  sometimes  added 
to  the  stalks  while  cooking. 

BARLEY   AND   TOMATO   SOUP 

Cook  1  can  of  tomatoes  and  1  chopped  Spanish  onion 
together  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  rub  through  a  wire 
sieve;  add  3  tablespoons  of  pearl  barley,  1  tablespoon 
of  butter,  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  cook  for  one  hour, 
until  the  barley  is  soft.    Re-season  before  serving. 

BLACK   BEAN   SOUP 

Soak  2  cups  of  beans  for  twelve  hours  or  more,  and 
then  drain  them  and  put  into  8  cups  of  cold  water ;  add  3 
whole  cloves,  3  whole  allspice,  and  3  whole  peppers,  salt 
well  and  boil  gently  for  two  hours,  rub  through  sieve,  and 
reheat.  Mix  1  tablespoon  of  thickening  flour,  and  1 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  water,  and  stir  into  the  soup  at 
boiling  point;  season  afresh  and  pour  into  a  tureen  in 
which  are  placed,  neatly  sliced,  1  hard-boiled  ^gg  and  half 


Soups 


49 


a  dozen  seeded  slices  of  lemon.  This  soup  is  improved 
by  adding  1  wineglass  of  sherry,  or  one  may  substitute  for 
it  a  few  drops  of  Tomato  Chutney  or  Worcestershire  sauce. 


BELGIAN   SOUP 

Take  4  cups  of  diced  turnips  and  put  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  stir  for  ten  minutes 
over  a  slow  fire ;  then  stir  in  2  cups  of  water,  2  teaspoons 
of  brown  sugar,  and  plenty  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  let 
simmer  for  another  ten  minutes ;  add  2  cups  of  milk 
thickened  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  let  boil  up,  stirring 
constantly,  and  serve  with  croutons. 


PLAIN   BEAN    SOUP 

Wash  2  cups  of  any  sort  of  dried  beans  and  soak  twelve 
hours  or  more  in  cold  water.  Before  using,  strain  them 
and  cover  with  8  cups  of  cold  water.  Put  over  the  fire 
and  let  cook  gently  for  four  hours,  then  rub  them  through 
a  sieve  into  their  own  stock,  season  with  1  tablespoon  of 
salt  and  \  teaspoon  of  pepper  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
and  let  them  cook  ten  minutes  longer.  Serve  with  half- 
inch  squares  of  toast  in  the  tureen. 


BROWN   BEAN   SOUP 

Take  1  cup  of  brown  beans  and  J  cup  of  German 
lentils,  wash  well  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  plenty  of 
cold  water,  2  or  3  chopped  onions,  1  stalk  of  celery,  1 
bay  leaf,  and  simmer  together  for  three  hours,  then  strain. 
If  a  thin  soup  is  wanted,  do  not  press  any  of  the  pulp 

4 


50  Golden   Rule   Cook- Book 


through  the  strainer,  but  if  it  is  hked  somewhat  thick,  do 
so.  Return  the  strained  soup  to  the  saucepan  and  thicken 
with  1  teaspoon  of  thickening  flour.  This  is  now  deU- 
cious  soup  stock,  and  can  be  served  plain,  or  varied  by 
adding  peas,  diced  carrots,  spaghetti,  a  few  drops  of 
sauce,  a  Uttle  sherry,  tomato  catsup,  or  curry  powder. 
Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper  before  serving. 

RED    BEAN    SOUP 

Soak  for  8  hours  or  more  2  cups  of  red  beans,  then  put 
them  in  a  large  saucepan  containing  8  cups  of  cold  water, 
1  cup  of  milk,  and  2  onions  halved,  each  having  4  cloves 
stuck  in  it.  Let  cook  for  two  hours,  then  press  through  a 
sieve,  reheat,  adding  just  before  serving  1  wineglass  of 
claret  and  fresh  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper.  1  hard- 
boiled  egg  chopped  fine  is  an  improvement  to  this  soup. 

LIMA   BEAN    CREAM    SOUP 

Soak  2  cups  of  dried  lima  beans  for  several  hours  and 
then  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  1  cup  of  cold  water  and 
1  cup  of  milk  and  let  them  cook  for  two  hours,  adding 
salt  when  they  have  partly  cooked.  Put  1  tablespoon  of 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  melted  add  1  onion 
chopped  fine.  Let  cook  slowly  until  browned,  then  scrape 
the  contents  of  the  frying  pan  into  the  saucepan  contain- 
ing the  beans,  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  tomato  catsup  or 
chutney  and  press  all  through  a  sieve,  and  re-season  before 
serving.  If  liked  a  little  thick,  use  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
made  smooth  in  \  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  to  thicken.  A 
tablespoon  of  whipped  cream  in  the  tureen  is  always  an 
improvement  to  a  cream  soup. 


Soupi 


51 


DUTCH    CABBAGE    SOUP 


Make  exactly  like  Cockie-Leekie  soup,  using  the  water 
in  which  a  cabbage  has  boiled  for  stock  and  adding  ^  cup 
of  finely  chopped  cabbage  instead  of  using  any  of  the 
barley  to  return  to  the  strained  soup.  Those  who  like 
caraway  seed  will  enjoy  the  addition  of  1  teaspoon  of  these 
to  the  soup.  If  used,  add  them  with  the  chopped  cabbage 
after  the  other  seasoning  has  been  removed. 


CALCUTTA   BISQUE 

Put  1  cup  of  tomato  pulp  in  a  saucepan  and  with  it  1 
bay  leaf.  When  hot  add  to  it  1  saltspoon  of  soda,  and  as 
it  foams  stir  slowly  into  it  3  or  4  cups  of  milk,  1  teaspoon 
of  curry  powder,  1  teaspoon  of  butter,  and  1  saltspoon  of 
salt.    Let  boil  up  once  and  serve  with  croutons. 

The  water  in  which  rice  has  boiled  or  any  vegetable 
stock  may  be  substituted  for  milk  and  the  soda  then 
omitted. 

CANTON    STEW 

Put  2  cups  of  finely  shredded  cabbage  in  enough  water 
to  boil  and  let  cook  slowly  until  tender,  which  should  be 
in  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  When  the  cabbage 
has  been  cooking  half  an  hour,  add  a  cup  of  milk,  and 
when  it  is  nearly  done  put  in  2  cups  of  milk ;  let  boil  up 
once,  then  season  with  salt,  black  pepper,  and  pour  in  a 
hot  tureen,  in  which  should  be  laid  1  teaspoon  of  butter. 
Those  who  like  oyster  crackers  served  in  or  with  milk 
stews  can  use  them  with  this  soup  which  greatly  resembles 
an  oyster  stew  in  flavour. 


52  Golden  Rule  Cook- Book 


CARROT   BROTH 

Scrape  and  cut  3  or  4  large  carrots  (or  more  of  the  small 
French  sort)  in  eighths  lengthwise  and  boil  them  until  ten- 
der. Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  scant  half  cup  of  oatmeal  to  it,  putting  in 
1  tablespoon  at  a  time  and  stirring  carefully  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  all  the  butter  is  taken  up ;  then  put  in  1  ladle 
of  stock  in  which  the  carrots  have  been  cooked,  and  con- 
tinue stirring ;  then  another  ladle  of  stock,  and  so  on  until 
a  cup  and  a  half  of  stock  has  been  added  during  ten  min- 
utes' slow  cooking.  Now  put  in  another  cup  of  stock  and 
let  cook  ten  minutes ;  then,  as  the  soup  will  be  getting  too 
thick,  add  another  cup  of  stock  and  so  on,  thinning  the 
soup  with  additional  stock  until  the  oatmeal  is  thoroughly 
cooked.  If  Quaker  Oats  is  used,  the  soup  will  only  have 
to  cook  about  forty  minutes,  and  it  is  best  to  strain  it 
before  serving;  fine  Scotch  meal  will  take  longer,  but 
does  not  need  to  be  strained  and  thickens  somewhat 
better. 

When  the  soup  is  half  cooked  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
1  saltspoon  of  pepper,  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  (Serve  the 
carrots  with  a  plain  sauce  or  warm  them  up  next  day  in 
some  of  the  ways  mentioned  under  Carrots.) 


CREAM   OF  CARROT   AND    ONION 

Take  2  cups  of  grated  carrot  and  1  chopped  onion  and 
fry  for  ten  minutes  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  then 
cover  with  4  cups  of  cold  water  and  let  boil.  Add  salt  and 
pepper  and  in  twenty  minutes  1  cup  of  milk  in  which  1 
tablespoon  of  flour  has  been  dissolved. 


Soup:, 


53 


CREAM   OF   CARROTS 


Put  %  cups  of  grated  carrot  with  1  pint  (2  cups)  of  cold 
water  in  a  double  boiler,  and  when  heated  add  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  and  1  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Let  cook  for 
an  hour,  then  add  \  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs  and  2  cups 
of  water,  and  let  cook  half  an  hour  longer.  Rub  the  con- 
tents of  the  double  boiler  through  a  fine  sieve,  add  1^  cups 
of  hot  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  salt  and  a  saltspoon  of  pepper, 
and  return  to  the  boiler.  Beat  %  egg-yolks  in  J  cup  of 
milk,  and  when  the  soup  boils  again  stir  them  into  it. 
Stir  hard  for  one  minute  and  serve. 

CREAM   OF   CHEESE 

Put  1  quart  (or  4  cups)  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and 
put  with  it  f  of  a  cup  of  grated  cheese,  1  teaspoon  of 
grated  onion,  1  teaspoon  of  some  piquant  sauce,  \  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  1  tablespoon 
of  flour  and  1  of  butter  rubbed  together.  Stir  until  smooth, 
then  beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  2  tablespoons  of  milk, 
put  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  boiling  soup  over  them, 
stirring  during  the  process.  Add  a  little  salt  and  serve 
with  croutons. 

CREAM   OF   CAULIFLOWER 

Take  a  good-sized  cauliflower,  and  let  it  soak  in  cold 
water,  which  is  slightly  salted,  for  half  an  hour;  then  drain 
it  and  put  it,  head  upwards,  in  a  saucepan  which  is  not 
over  large,  and  let  it  cook  for  half  an  hour  uncovered.  Put 
in  a  double  boiler  1  quart  of  milk  (4  cups),  1  onion  and 
1  bay  leaf,  and  let  them  cook  together  while  the  cauli- 


54  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 

flower  is  boiling.  Drain  the  cauliflower  when  done,  and 
reserve  \  cup  of  the  little  sprays  which  form  the  head, 
mash  the  remainder  in  a  wooden  bowl,  and  add  to  it  2 
cups  of  the  stock  in  which  it  boiled  and  put  in  with  the 
boiling  milk;  stir  well,  and  let  cook  five  minutes,  then 
put  through  a  sieve  and  return  to  the  fire  with  a  thickening 
of  1  tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed  together  with  1  tablespoon 
of  butter,  season  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  dash  of 
nutmeg,  add  the  ^  cup  of  cauliflower  as  a  garnish,  and 
let  cook  ten  minutes  more  before  serving.  A  tablespoon 
of  whipped  cream  is  an  addition  if  added  at  the  last. 


CHESTNUT   SOUP 

Peel  and  blanch  1  quart  of  Italian  chestnuts  and  chop 
them  fine,  then  boil  for  half  an  hour  in  2  quarts  of  water. 
Strain  the  chestnuts  and  crush  them  to  fine  pulp  in  a 
mortar,  and  gradually  stir  on  this  1  quart  of  the  stock  in 
which  the  chestnuts  cooked,  and  then  rub  all  through  a 
sieve.  Return  to  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  with  1  cup  of 
bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  and  1  saltspoon  of 
pepper.  Cook  for  half  an  hour,  then  strain  again,  and  add 
2  cups  of  milk  and  a  grating  of  nutmeg,  and  1  tablespoon 
of  browned  butter,  and  reheat  to  boiling  point. 


CREAM   OF   CELERY 

Wash  and  scrape  and  cut  into  half-inch  pieces  what  will 
make  1  cup  of  celery ;  put  it  into  1  quart  of  boiling  salted 
water  and  cook  for  nearly  an  hour  or  until  very  soft,  then 
mash  it  in  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled.  Put  1  tea- 
spoon of  chopped  onion,  2  bay  leaves,  some  mace,  and  2 


Soup!. 


55 


cloves  into  2  cups  of  milk,  let  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  and 
add  it  to  the  celery  pulp.  Now  press  through  a  sieve  and 
return  to  the  double  boiler  in  which  the  milk  was  cooked. 
Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  blend  it  with  1  tablespoon 
of  flour  until  smooth,  and  stir  it  into  the  boiling  soup ;  then 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  five  minutes  and  strain 
into  a  hot  tureen  in  which  a  pat  of  butter  and  1  tablespoon 
of  whipped  cream  have  been  put.  The  addition  of  1  table- 
spoon of  chopped  chives  is  an  improvement  to  the  appear- 
ance and  taste,  or  parsley  may  be  used  if  preferred. 

CREAM    OF   CHESTNUT 

Shell  and  blanch  and  cut  in  quarters  2  cups  (1  pound) 
of  Italian  chestnuts  and  cover  them  with  2  cups  of  boiling 
water.  Add  1  slice  of  onion  (or  a  drop  of  onion  juice 
extract),  \  cup  of  chopped  celery  (or  1  teaspoon  celery 
seed),  1  bay  leaf,  1  sprig  of  parsley,  and  1  saltspoon  of 
paprika.  Cover  and  boil  until  the  chestnuts  are  tender, 
—  about  half  an  hour.  Then  grind  in  a  mortar,  or  press 
through  a  colander  or  vegetable  mill,  and  add  1  quart 
(4  cups)  of  milk,  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  of  flour 
rubbed  together,  and  cook  for  three  minutes ;  then  add  1 
teaspoon  of  salt,  and  press  all  through  a  fine  sieve  and 
reheat  before  serving. 

CREAM    OF   CORN 

Put  1  quart  of  milk  and  1  can  of  corn  in  a  double  boiler 
and  let  boil ;  mix  1  teaspoon  of  butter  and  1  of  cornstarch 
or  potato-flour  together,  and  add  to  the  corn ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  for  one  minute ;  then  press  through 
a  sieve  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  minced  green  peppers. 


56  Golden   Rule   Cook-Booh. 


COCKIE-LEEKIE 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  stir  in,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  1  cup  of  pearl  barley, 
taking  ten  minutes  to  add  it  all ;  then  cover  with  8  cups 
of  carrot  or  onion  broth  (or  use  water),  and  add  2  bay 
leaves,  1  onion  with  4  cloves  stuck  in  it,  a  bouquet  of  herbs 
and  parsley,  1  stalk  of  celery,  and  let  simmer  for  one  hour 
and  a  half,  then  strain,  reserving  some  of  the  barley. 
Prepare  leeks  by  washing  and  cutting  into  2-inch  lengths 
(using  some  of  the  green) ,  and  slicing  lengthwise,  and  add 
them  to  the  soup ;  put  in  the  barley,  and  let  cook  twenty- 
five  minutes  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 


CREOLE   SOUP 

Put  1  can  of  tomatoes,  1  quart  of  water  or  vegetable 
stock,  1  sliced  onion,  and  1  small  sliced  carrot,  and  1 
chopped  green  pepper  together  in  a  saucepan,  and  let 
cook  for  half  an  hour,  then  rub  through  a  fine  strainer. 
Return  the  strained  mixture  to  the  double  boiler  and  put 
in  2  scant  tablespoons  of  boiled  rice,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
\  teaspoon  paprika,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Cream  2 
tablespoons  of  butter  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  stir 
into  the  soup ;  let  boil  up  once  and  serve. 


CREAM   OF   CURRY 

Put  1  quart  (or  4  cups)  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler  with 
1  onion  with  4  cloves  stuck  in  it,  and  when  hot  thicken  it 
with  1  tablespoon  of  thickening  flour  rubbed  smooth  with 
1  tablespoon  of  butter;  add  2  tablespoons  of  boiled  rice, 


Soups 


57 


and  1  hard-boiled  ^gg  chopped  fine,  and  2  teaspoons 
(more  if  Hked)  of  curry  powder  or  paste.  Remove  the  on- 
ion and  serve  with  croutons.  One  tablespoon  of  chopped 
chives  or  pimentos  is  an  addition  to  the  soup. 


FLORENTINE    SOUP 

Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  put  into 
it  f  of  a  cup  of  finely  chopped  onions  and  stir  over  a 
moderate  heat  about  five  minutes  and  then  add  2  full 
cups  of  very  thinly  sliced  turnips;  stir  these  with  the 
onions  for  another  five  minutes  and  then  add  2  table- 
spoons of  flour  and  gradually  add  2  pints  of  boiled  milk 
mixing  all  well  together ;  watch  it  till  it  boils  and  then  let 
simmer  gently,  stirring  frequently  during  twenty  minutes 
or  half  an  hour,  until  the  onions  are  quite  soft.  Then  add 
2  more  cups  of  milk,  and  when  this  boils  add  1  cup  of 
tomato  puree  (either  canned  tomato  soup  or  canned 
tomatoes),  or  1^  cups  of  sliced  fresh  tomatoes,  using  a 
pinch  of  soda  to  prevent  curdling.  Now  press  the  contents 
of  the  saucepan  through  a  fine  sieve,  add  a  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  butter,  reheat,  and  serve  with  croutons  and 
1  tablespoon  of  whipped  cream. 


HEILBRONN   SOUP 

Take  3  quarts  of  water  in  which  vegetables  have  been 
boiled  (preferably  onions  or  leeks)  and  let  simmer.  In 
another  enamelled  pan  put  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  when 
melted  stir  in  slowly  with  a  wooden  spoon  \  cup  of 
barley,  adding  a  little  at  a  time,  until  butter  is  well  "taken 
up."     Let  it  cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 


58  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 


then  add  (a  ladle  at  a  time)  6  or  8  ladles  of  the  hot  stock, 
putting  in  this  amount  during  ten  minutes  of  stirring. 
Add  \  the  remaining  stock,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  some 
nutmeg,  and  let  simmer  twenty  minutes ;  then  the  remain- 
ing stock  and  simmer  another  one-half  hour.  Peel  | 
pound  mushrooms  and  cut  in  4  or  6  pieces  each;  fry 
them  in  butter  for  five  minutes,  and  add  to  soup  ten 
minutes  before  serving  and  season  afresh. 


JULIENNE   SOUP 

Strain  any  clear  vegetable  soup,  and  to  each  2  cups  of 
broth  add  \  cup  of  dried  "Julienne;"  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  1  tablespoon  of  browned  butter. 

RED    LENTIL   SOUP 

Soak  2  cups  of  Egyptian  lentils  in  water  for  eight  of 
ten  hours,  then  drain  and  shake  dry.  Put  2  tablespoons 
of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  when  melted  add  \  of  the 
lentils  and  stir  well  with  a  flat-ended  wooden  spoon, 
letting  them  cook  very  slowly;  then  add  another  third, 
and  after  stirring  a  few  moments,  add  the  remainder. 
Pour  on  6  cups  of  cooled  water  in  which  leeks  or  onions 
have  boiled,  and  let  simmer  for  an  hour  or  until  the  lentils 
are  tender ;  press  through  a  sieve  and  return  to  the  fire  to 
reheat.  Smooth  1  teaspoon  of  flour  with  1  teaspoon  of 
butter  and  add  to  the  soup,  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Instead  of  the  flour  and  butter 
1  well-beaten  egg  may  be  vigorously  stirred  into,  the  soup 
after  removing  it  from  the  fire. 

If  Egyptian  lentils  cannot  be  obtained,  canned  or  dried 
red  kidney  beans  may  be  substituted. 


Soupi 


59 


CREAM    OF    LENTIL 


Wash  2  cups  of  Egyptian  lentils,  then  let  them  soak  in 
2  quarts  of  water  for  twelve  hours  or  more  and  put  them, 
in  this  same  water,  where  they  will  simmer  gently  over  a 
slow  fire.  Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and 
when  melted  add  to  it  2  large  onions,  sliced,  2  carrots 
and  1  turnip  diced,  and  fry  until  a  delicate  brown;  add 
these  to  the  lentils  and  let  cook  slowly  for  about  two 
hours.  Press  through  a  sieve,  return  to  the  fire,  add  2  cups 
of  milk  and  just  before  serving,  1  tablespoon  of  whipped 
cream,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

HUNGARIAN    SOUP 

Put  1  cup  of  German  lentils  in  a  saucepan  with  2  cups 
of  cold  water  or  vegetable  stock,  and  let  boil  for  an  hour. 
If  the  water  is  absorbed  before  the  lentils  are  tender,  add 
a  little  more.  At  the  end  of  the  hour  pour  over  them  6 
cups  of  hot  water  or  stock. 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  small  onion  chopped  fine  and  1  tablespoon 
of  flour  and  1  clove  of  garlic.  When  browned  add  this  to 
the  soup  and  at  the  same  time  put  in  ^  cup  of  diced 
potatoes.  Let  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour,  then  press 
through  a  sieve,  return  to  the  fire,  season  well  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  or 
reduced  vinegar  before  serving. 

PUREE    MONGOLE 

Put  1  can  of  tomatoes  in  a  saucepan  and  with  it  2  cups 
of  strong  vegetable  broth,  1  stalk  of  celery,  1  slice  of  onion, 


6o  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


1  bay  leaf,  3  allspice,  3  cloves,  salt  and  pepper,  and  let 
cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour.  Pour  the  liquid  through  a 
sieve,  pressing  with  it  as  much  of  the  tomato  as  will  go, 
reserving  the  celery.  Return  to  the  saucepan,  add  1 
tablespoon  of  reduced  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  of  boiled 
peas,  1  tablespoon  of  canned  string  beans,  split  in  half, 
and  the  cooked  stalk  of  celery  shredded  into  thin  strips 
two  inches  long ;  let  simmer  for  five  minutes,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  remove  from 
the  fire,  and  beat  vigorously  into  the  soup  1  well-beaten 

egg. 

MUSHROOM   BISQUE 

Cut  up  with  a  silvered  knife  about  1  cup  of  fresh  mush- 
rooms, wash  and  drain,  toss  about  in  2  tablespoons  of 
melted  butter  for  ten  minutes,  then  stir  in  1  tablespoon 
of  flour  made  smooth  in  a  little  milk,  and  add  1  quart  of 
milk  and  let  simmer  half  an  hour.  Season  with  salt  and 
paprika,  and  press  through  a  sieve,  reserving  half  the 
mushrooms.  Add  these  to  the  soup,  and  serve  with 
croutons. 

MUSHROOM   SOUP 

Take  J  of  a  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms,  f  of  a  cup  of 
small  white  beans,  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  1  Spanish 
onion  in  which  5  cloves  have  been  stuck,  a  small  piece  of 
mace,  some  parsley  and  thyme,  and,  after  preparing  for 
cooking,  let  boil  for  an  hour  or  more  in  2  quarts  of  water ; 
then  press  all  but  a  few  of  the  mushrooms  through  a  wire 
strainer,  return  to  the  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoons  of 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  J  teaspoon  of  soup  browning, 
and,  after  cutting  them  in  several  pieces,  add  the  reserved 
mushrooms  and  serve. 


Soupi 


6i 


MUSHROOM   STEW 


Select  mushrooms  that  are  white  and  firm  and  small, 
wash  them  carefully  one  at  a  time  with  the  hands,  and 
put  1  heaping  cup  of  them  into  4  cups  of  milk  and  let 
heat,  without  boiling,  for  15  minutes.  Then  add  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  plenty  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  in  a 
hot  tureen  with  crisp  crackers. 

NOODLE   OR   ALPHABET    SOUP 

Strain  any  one  of  the  vegetable  soups  for  stock,  add  J 
cup  of  noodles  or  *' alphabets"  fifteen  minutes  before 
serving. 

CREAM   OF   ONION   SOUP 

Chop  enough  onions  to  make  4  cups,  and  put  them  in  a 
large  saucepan  with  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  stir  them 
for  five  minutes;  then  add  1  small  onion  with  4  cloves 
stuck  in  it,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  and  a  bay  leaf,  cover  with 
6  or  7  cups  of  water,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  cook 
gently  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Press  all  through  a 
sieve,  and  return  the  liquid  to  the  saucepan;  add  1 
tablespoon  of  flour  blended  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
also  2  cups  of  milk  (or  half  cream),  and  let  boil  up  once 
before  serving.  One  tablespoon  of  chopped  chives  may  be 
added,  also  1  tablespoon  of  whipped  cream. 

OKRA   SOUP 

Cut  into  small  pieces  2  cups  (1  can)  of  okra,  use  1  can 
of  green  peas,  1  of  green  corn,  1  cup  of  shell  beans,  2 
onions,  1  slice  of  carrot,  1  slice  of  turnip,  2  tomatoes,  and 


62  Golden    Rule   Cook-Book 


some  celery,  or  use  celery  salt.  Put  2  tablespoons  of 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  melted  add  the  chopped 
onion,  carrot,  and  turnip,  and  cook  ten  minutes ;  then  put 
with  the  okra,  celery  and  beans  into  4  cups  of  water. 
Cook  for  one  hour,  then  add  salt  and  pepper  and  the 
tomatoes,  corn,  peas,  and  celery,  and  simmer  for  half  an 
hour.  Do  not  strain  to  serve,  but  if  too  thick,  thin  with 
stock  or  water. 


ONION    SOUP   AU    FROMAGE 

Slice  6  ordinary  onions  or  3  large  Spanish  ones,  and  put 
in  frying  pan  with  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  butter,  and 
let  fry  very  slowly  until  the  onions  are  a  rich  dark  brown, 
—  about  fifteen  minutes ;  then  scrape  the  contents  of  the 
pan  into  a  large  marmite,  add  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter, 
some  pepper  and  salt,  and  nearly  fill  the  casserole  with 
tepid  water,  or  with  water  in  which  onions  have  boiled; 
cover  and  let  cook  slowly  half  an  hour,  and  then  stir  in 
2  teaspoons  of  soup  browning.  Take  4  thick  slices  of  dry 
rye  bread,  spread  them  thickly  with  grated  cheese,  and 
lay  these  in  the  soup  pot ;  remove  the  cover  and  let  cook 
five  minutes  more,  and  serve  in  the  marmite. 


NEW    GREEN    PEA   SOUP 

Shell  half  a  peck  of  peas  and  wash  the  pods.  Put  the 
pods  in  a  large  kettle  and  almost  cover  with  boiling  water ; 
let  them  simmer  for  half  an  hour,  then  strain  these  out, 
and  put  the  peas  in  this  water  to  boil  until  tender.  The 
length  of  time  this  takes  depends  on  the  freshness  of  the 
peas.    Save  out  1  cup  of  the  peas  and  press  the  remainder. 


Soupi 


63 


water  and  all,  through  a  sieve,  and  add  to  them  1  pint  of 
milk,  then  return  to  the  fire.  Rub  together  1  tablespoon  of 
flour  and  one  of  butter  and  stir  into  the  boiling  soup ;  then 
add  the  reserved  cup  of  peas,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  serve.  If  the  flavour  of  mint  is  liked,  put  3  or  4  mint 
leaves,  or  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  mint,  into  the  tureen.  If 
mint  is  not  used  add  a  little  chopped  parsley. 


CREAM  OF  GREEN  PEA  SOUP 

Put  1  can  of  peas,  1  chopped  onion,  and  1  cup  of  water 
in  a  saucepan,  and  cook  twenty  minutes.  At  the  same 
time  put  1  quart  of  milk  on  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler. 
When  the  milk  is  hot  stir  in  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  as 
it  boils,  1  tablespoon  of  flour  which  has  been  dissolved  in 
a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  milk.  Rub  the  peas  through  a  fine 
sieve,  stir  into  the  milk,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add 
1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  and  serve.  Instead  of  the 
parsley,  chopped  mint  can  be  used  if  the  flavour  is  liked, 
or  1  or  2  mint  leaves  laid  iii  the  tureen  before  the  soup 
is  poured  in  give  a  delicate  flavour. 


SPLIT    GREEN   PEA    SOUP 

Soak  2  cups  of  peas  for  twelve  hours  or  more,  and  then 
drain  and  toss  them  for  ten  minutes  in  a  saucepan  with 
1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  onion ; 
then  add  4  cups  of  hot  water  and  let  cook  two  hours,  and 
press  through  a  sieve  with  the  water  in  which  they  cooked. 
Add  1  cup  of  milk  and  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  mint  (fresh 
or  dried),  and  1  tablespoon  whipped  cream.  Season  well 
v^ith  salt  and  pepper. 


64  Golden  Rule  Cook-Book 


PRINCESS   SOUP 

Slice  3  onions  and  cook  in  a  scant  half  cup  of  butter  for 
ten  minutes.  Add  1  quart  of  hot  milk  and  cook  slowly 
another  ten  minutes.  Strain  into  double  boiler,  thicken 
with  1  teaspoon  of  flour  dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  and 
just  before  serving  add  2  teaspoons  of  finely  chopped 
canned  pimentos,  and  salt  and  pepper.  Add  1  tablespoon 
of  cream  in  serving. 

POTATO   SOUP 

Wash  6  to  9  potatoes  and  put  them  in  boiling  water  and 
boil  them  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour,  the  time 
depending  on  their  size.  Use  1  large  onion  quartered, 
with  cloves  stuck  in  it,  and  2  pieces  of  celery  (or  \  teaspoon 
of  celery  salt  or  celery  seed) ,  some  mace,  1  bay  leaf,  and  6 
peppercorns,  and  put  in  a  double  boiler  with  1  quart  of 
milk,  from  which  reserve  1  small  half  cup.  Mix  1  table- 
spoon of  flour  with  the  reserved  milk,  and  stir  slowly  into 
the  milk  when  it  boils,  and  let  cook  ten  minutes  longer. 
When  the  potatoes  are  done  pour  off  the  water,  peel 
them  and  mash  until  light,  then  add  to  the  boiling  milk, 
stir  well,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  rub  all  through 
a  sieve.  Return  to  double  boiler,  add  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  1  teaspoon  of  minced  parsley,  boil  up  once,  and 
serve. 

GERMAN   POTATO   SOUP 

The  German  potato  soup  is  made  by  rubbing  6  or  8 
well-boiled  potatoes  through  a  sieve  together  with  enough 
of  the  water  in  which  they  were  cooked  to  make  sufficient 
soup,   and  adding  1  tablespoon  of  chopped   chives    (or 


Soups  6  5 

shallot  or  onion),  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  \  cup 
of  sour  cream  containing  a  little  lemon  juice,  or,  instead  of 
sour  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  reduced  vinegar  can  be  used, 
with  \  cup  of  fresh  cream.  Let  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes 
and  serve  very  hot  with  croutons. 

POTATO    SOUP   FLORA 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  large  onion  chopped  fine,  stir  until  browned, 
then  add  3  cups  of  thinly  sliced  potatoes  and  6  cups  of 
cold  water;  when  the  potatoes  are  cooked  to  a  mush 
press  them  through  a  sieve,  add  a  small  piece  of  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 

CREAM   OF   RICE   SOUP 

Put  \  cup  of  rice  into  \\  pints  of  boiling  water,  and  add 
2  onions  into  which  4  cloves  are  pressed,  a  piece  of  celery 
(or  I  teaspoon  celery  seed) ,  one  bay  leaf,  1  sprig  of  parsley, 
4  peppercorns,  and  a  bit  of  mace.  Let  simmer  gently  for 
one  hour,  then  turn  the  soup  into  a  large  bowl,  pouring 
it  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  pressing  as  much  through  the 
sieve  as  possible.  Return  the  contents  of  the  bowl  to  the 
saucepan  and  add  1  pint  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1 
tablespoon  of  butter,  and  1  scant  tablespoon  of  flour  dis- 
solved in  a  little  milk.  Add  1  tablespoon  of  chopped 
Spanish  pimentos,  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  chives,  let 
simmer  five  minutes,  add  1  tablespoon  of  whipped  cream, 
and  serve. 

RICE   AND   TOMATO    SOUP 

Boil  1  cup  of  rice  in  2  quarts  of  water.  Heat  the  con- 
tents of  1  can  of  tomatoes  with  1  bay  leaf,  2  slices  of 


66  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


onion,  and,  after  fifteen  minutes'  cooking,  press  through 
a  sieve  and  put  in  double  boiler,  and  to  this  add  1  pint  of 
water  in  which  rice  has  been  boiled.  When  hot  put  in 
1  teaspoon  of  butter,  some  pepper,  salt,  and  a  dash  of 
celery  salt,  and  2  tablespoons  of  the  cooked  rice,  and  serve. 
The  boiled  rice  can  be  utilised  for  the  same  meal,  or  used 
later. 


RICE-OKRA    SOUP 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  large  saucepan,  and 
when  melted  add  1  sliced  onion  and  let  simmer  for  five 
minutes;  then  stir  in  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  when 
smooth  and  browned  add  6  cups  of  water;  season  well 
and  let  cook  slowly  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  In 
another  saucepan  put  |  cup  of  rice  and  2  cups  of  sliced 
okra,  and  strain  the  hot  stock  over  the  rice  and  okra, 
season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  closely,  and  let 
simmer  gently  for  an  hour.  If  fresh  okra  is  not  available 
the  canned  okra  is  a  very  good  substitute;  but  if  it  is 
used,  do  not  add  it  to  the  rice  and  stock  until  twenty 
minutes  before  removing  the  soup  from  the  fire. 


OYSTER   PLANT  (SALSIFY)  SOUP 

Use  enough  salsify  to  make  4  cups  when  sliced.  Soak 
in  cold  water  for  an  hour,  then  scrape  and  put  in  fresh 
water,  containing  some  lemon  juice,  for  fifteen  minutes. 
The  salsify  must  not  be  left  out  of  the  water,  or  it  will  turn 
dark.  Cut  in  thin  slices,  and  put  into  a  saucepan  con- 
taining 4  cups  of  water  and  J  cup  of  milk,  and  let  cook 


Soups  6  7 


slowly  for  about  an  hour,  adding  1  teaspoon  of  salt  when 
it  has  cooked  half  the  time.  Reserve  |  of  a  cup  of  the 
salsify,  and  press  the  remainder,  with  the  stock,  through 
a  sieve;  return  to  the  saucepan,  add  1^  cups  of  milk  and 
1  cup  of  cream,  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter  rubbed  together 
with  1  tablespoon  of  flour  (or  less  if  a  thick  soup  is  not 
liked),  a  little  salt,  a  dash  of  paprika  and  pepper,  and 
serve  very  hot  with  small  crackers. 


SPINACH-TOMATO    SOUP 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  into  the  frying  pan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  onion  chopped  fine,  and  let  cook  slowly 
for  ten  minutes.  Put  1  cup  of  cold  prepared  spinach  into 
the  butter  and  onion  and  1  cup  of  tomato  sauce  or  toma- 
toes, and  let  heat  through.  Put  2  cups  of  milk  in  a  double 
boiler  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  1  of  butter  rubbed 
together.  Add  a  pinch  of  soda  to  the  tomato-spinach 
mixture,  press  it  through  a  sieve,  and  stir  the  puree  into 
the  milk  when  it  boils.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
add  1  tablespoon  of  cream. 


CREAM    OF   SPINACH 

Put  the  contents  of  1  can  of  spinach  in  a  chopping-bowl 
and  chop  it  to  a  fine  pulp ;  then  put  it  in  a  double  boiler 
with  2  tablespoons  of  onion  juice  (grated  onion),  and 
some  salt  and  pepper,  and  5  or  6  cups  of  milk.  Let  all 
cook  together  for  twenty  minutes,  then  pour  through  a 
sieve,  pressing  the  spinach  to  extract  the  juice.  Return 
the  soup  to  the  double  boiler,  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
re-season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg  or 


68  Golden  Rule  Cook-Book 


mace,  and  some  celery  salt.  A  tablespoon  of  whipped 
cream  added  at  the  last  is  an  improvement,  or  1  table- 
spoon of  finely  chopped  white  and  riced  yolk  of  hard- 
boiled  ^^g  can  be  added.  The  spinach  itself  can  be 
prepared  next  day  in  any  of  the  ways  described  for 
serving  spinach. 

FRENCH   SORREL   SOUP 

Wash  1  quart  of  sorrel  and  put  it  to  cook  in  cold  water, 
remove  from  the  fire  in  ten  minutes  and  drain  and  chop 
fine.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  fry 
in  it  when  melted  1  small  onion  chopped  fine;  then  add 
the  sorrel  to  this  and  stir  for  three  or  four  minutes  and 
add  2  cups  of  cold  milk  and  let  simmer  for  five  minutes. 
Dissolve  in  1  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  1  table- 
spoon of  potato  flour  (or  other  thickening),  and  add  to 
the  boiling  soup ;  then  strain,  reheat,  and  serve  with  the 
addition  of  1  tablespoon  of  whipped  cream. 

GERMAN    SORREL    SOUP 

The  Germans  enrich  the  above  soup  by  pouring  it  upon 
a  \  cup  of  milk  in  which  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  have  been 
beaten.  Do  not  reverse  the  process,  as  it  will  curdle  the 
soup. 

ST.    GERMAIN   SOUP 

Take  2  cans  of  peas,  reserving  J  cup  of  them,  and  put 
them  in  a  double  boiler  with  1  onion  cut  in  4  pieces  with 
a  clove  stuck  in  each,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of 
pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  1  bay  leaf,  and  a  sprig  of 


Soups  6  9 

parsley ;  cover  and  let  cook  for  half  an  hour,  then  mash 
the  contents  of  the  double  boiler  with  a  potato-masher, 
and  add  to  them  6  cups  of  water,  and  when  this  boils  add 
to  the  soup  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  2  of  flour  rubbed 
together;  stir  well  and  cook  fifteen  minutes,  then  press 
through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  double  boiler,  add  2  cups 
of  milk,  the  \  cup  of  peas  drained  dry,  and  reheat,  season- 
ing afresh  before  serving  with  croutons. 

SPAGHETTI   SOUP 

Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  large  saucepan,  and 
add  to  it  1  thinly  sliced  onion,  2  slices  of  carrot,  2  slices 
of  turnip,  \  cup  of  chopped  celery  (or  1  teaspoon  of  celery 
seed  may  be  used  instead) ,  and  let  cook  very  slowly.  Stir 
frequently,  and  at  the  end  of  ten  minutes  add  2  cloves,  10 
or  12  peppercorns,  a  small  piece  of  cinnamon,  and  1  large 
bay  leaf,  and  8  cups  (or  2  quarts)  of  cold  water.  Cover 
the  saucepan  and  let  the  soup  cook  slowly  three  quarters 
of  an  hour,  then  strain  carefully  and  return  to  the  sauce- 
pan. Season  with  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  add  \  cup  of 
spaghetti  broken  into  inch-long  pieces.  Cover  the  sauce- 
pan and  let  the  soup  simmer  for  an  hour,  as  this  will  draw 
more  flavour  from  the  spaghetti  than  rapid  boiling,  and  is 
the  better  way  for  a  soup,  since  the  object  is  to  extract 
the  flavour  of  the  ingredients.  Grated  or  Parmesan  cheese 
served  with  this  soup  is  an  improvement. 

SCOTCH   BROTH 

Put  2  quarts  of  water  in  kettle,  and  when  at  boiling 
point  add  ^  cup  of  pearl  barley,  which  has  been  tossed 
m  hot  butter  in  a  frying  pan  for  five  minutes,  and  let  cook 


yo  Golden  Rule   Cook-Book 

slowly.  Cut  up  2  carrots,  2  turnips,  and  3  large  onions, 
and  fry  in  2  tablespoons  of  butter.  Chop  a  sprig  of  parsley 
very  fine,  and  put  with  the  other  vegetables  into  the  barley 
and  water.  Let  cook  slowly  for  two  hours,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  serve.  A  \  teaspoon  of  soup-brown- 
ing improves  the  appearance  of  the  broth. 

SPANISH   TOMATO    SOUP 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  stir  into  it  3  onions  thinly  sliced,  and  let  simmer 
for  ten  minutes ;  then  add  to  them  the  juice  from  1  can 
of  tomatoes  and  2  of  the  tomatoes,  and  let  cook  slowly 
for  twenty  minutes;  strain,  pressing  through  a  sieve, 
return  to  the  fire,  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  some  pepper 
and  salt,  and  stir  in  2  well-beaten  eggs.  Do  not  let  the 
soup  boil  after  adding  the  eggs. 

TOMATO-TAPIOCA   SOUP 

Put  2  quarts  of  water  into  a  double  boiler,  and  when  it 
boils  add  \  cup  of  tapioca.  Slice  6  large  tomatoes  (or 
use  2  cups  of  strained  canned  tomatoes),  cut  2  onions 
fine,  and  fry  together  until  a  light  brown  in  1  tablespoon 
of  butter.  Scrape  the  contents  of  the  pan  into  the  kettle 
and  let  simmer  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  then  season 
well  and  serve. 

TOMATO    CREAM    SOUP 

Take  2  cups  of  canned  tomatoes,  juice  and  all,  mash 
the  large  pieces  to  a  pulp,  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with 
\\  cups  of  hot  water  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 


Soup^ 


71 


egg,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  ^  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  1  bay  leaf. 
Let  come  to  a  boil,  and  then  add  |  teaspoon  of  carbonate 
of  soda,  stir  for  one  minute,  and  add  2  cups  of  milk.  Let 
boil  up  and  pour  in  tureen  in  which  is  a  ^  cup  of  cracker 
crumbs  very  finely  rolled.  Use  this  way  for  ordinary  use, 
or  strain  to  serve  in  cups. 


TOMATO   AND    CORN    BISQUE 

Put  1  quart  of  milk  and  1  can  of  corn  in  a  double  boiler 
and  let  simmer  fifteen  minutes;  then  add  1  teaspoon  of 
butter,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  press  through 
a  sieve,  and  put  back  into  the  double  boiler.  Add  |  cup 
of  boiled  tomatoes  which  have  been  pressed  through  a 
sieve,  stir  together,  reheat,  and  serve. 


TOMATO-MACARONI    SOUP 

Put  1  can  of  tomatoes,  1  sprig  of  parsley,  1  onion  with 
4  cloves  stuck  in  it,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  6  peppercorns, 
and  6  cups  of  cold  water  in  a  saucepan,  and  let  cook 
slowly  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  then  strain  and  re- 
turn to  the  saucepan,  and  when  boiling  again,  add  J  cup 
of  macaroni  which  has  been  broken  into  small  pieces,  and 
cover  and  cook  for  half  an  hour.  Season  afresh  before 
serving.  Spaghetti  or  noodles  may  be  used  instead  of 
macaroni. 

TOMATO   SOUP 

Let  1  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  2  cups  of  water  (or  rice 
stock),  a  sprig  of  parsley,  1  bay  leaf,  and  1  onion  simmer 
together  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  press  through  a  sieve 


72  Golden  Rule  Cook-Book 


and  return  to  the  fire  to  boil.  Rub  1  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  1  tablespoon  of  flour  together,  and  stir  into  the  boiling 
soup  until  smooth.  Add  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  soda, 
and  serve  immediately  with  croutons.  If  water  in  which 
rice  has  boiled  is  used  omit  the  flour  and  the  soda. 


TOMATO-OKRA   SOUP 

Into  14  quarts  (6  cups)  of  boiling  water  put  J  cup  of 
rice;  cover  and  let  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  con- 
tents of  1  can  of  "  tomato-okra  "  and  cook  ten  minutes 
more.  Reserve  2  okra  pods,  2  tomatoes,  and  1  tablespoon 
of  rice,  and  press  all  the  rest  through  a  sieve.  Return  to 
the  fire,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  the  rice  and 
tomatoes  and  the  okra  cut  in  thin  slices. 


MULLIGATAWNY    SOUP 

Make  as  above,  but  strain,  reserving  a  little  rice  and  a 
little  tomato  to  add  later ;  stir  1  tablespoon  of  curry  paste 
(or  powder)  into  the  soup,  reheat,  and  serve. 


VEGETABLE    SOUP.    NO.    i 

Cut  in  tiny  squares  1  potato,  1  onion,  J  turnip,  1 
carrot,  and  1  root  of  celery.  Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter 
in  a  frying  pan,  add  all  the  vegetables  except  the  potato, 
and  fry  until  a  delicate  brown.  Then  scrape  the  con- 
tents of  the  frying  pan  into  a  kettle  containing  2  quarts 
of  cold  water,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  3  tablespoons  of  rice, 
1  bay  leaf,  and  a  bunch  of  soup  herbs.  Let  cook  slowly 
for   one   hour  and  a  half,   and  then  add  the  potatoes 


Soup^ 


72 


and  boil  twenty  minutes  more.  Add  pepper,  a  little  fresh 
salt,  and  1  teaspoon  soup-browning,  and,  if  a  thin  soup 
is  preferred,  strain  out  most  of  the  vegetables  and  rice. 
These  may  be  served  with  brown  sauce  and  put  in  indi- 
vidual crust  cups  made  hot  in  oven  after  being  filled. 

VEGETABLE   SOUP.    NO.   2 

When  seasonable  another  vegetable  soup  may  be  made, 
proceeding  as  above,  but  adding  cauliflower  and  young 
onions  instead  of  carrots,  etc.,  and  thinning  with  1^  cups 
of  hot  milk  and  adding  at  the  last  J  cup  of  boiled  young 
peas.  Add  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  a  spoonful  of 
cream,  before  serving. 

VEGETABLE   SOUP.    NO.   3 

Put  1  generous  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  large  saucepan, 
and  fry  in  the  butter  when  melted  J  cup  of  chopped  onion, 
and  when  a  golden  brown  stir  in  carefully  1  tablespoon 
of  flour,  and  when  smoothed  pour  on  slowly  2  cups  of 
hot  water  or  vegetable  stock.  Now  put  in  J  cup  each  of 
chopped  carrot,  turnip,  parsnip,  and  1  cup  of  celery,  and 
dredge  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  cover  with  boiling 
water,  and  let  simmer  for  one  hour.  Then  put  in  2  cups 
of  parboiled  potatoes,  and  when  the  vegetables  are  soft 
press  through  a  sieve  with  the  stock  in  which  they  have 
cooked. 

VEGETABLE   SOUP.    NO.   4 

A  much  more  simple  but  very  palatable  vegetable  soup 
is  made  by  taking  1  cup  of  diced  carrots  and  1  cup  of 
parsnips  and  1  can  of  peas  (or  fewer  peas  can  be  used). 


74  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


covering  them  with  cold  water,  and  after  one  hour's 
boiHng  adding  2  cups  of  milk,  to  which  should  be  added 
when  it  boils  1  teaspoon  of  potato-flour,  or  other  thick- 
ening, and,  before  serving,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  small  piece 
of  butter. 

VEGETABLE    SOUP.    NO.    5 

Slice  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes  1  turnip,  1  carrot,  1  sweet 
potato,  the  corn  from  1  ear  of  corn,  or  use  2  tablespoons 
of  canned  corn,  and  strain  J  can  of  peas,  or  J  cup  of  fresh 
peas  may  be  used.  Put  3  quarts  of  water  in  a  saucepan, 
and  when  boiling  add  1  tablespoon  of  rice  and  the  carrot ; 
let  boil  for  half  an  hour,  then  put  in  the  other  vegetables 
and  cook  for  half  an  hour  longer,  and  add  1  tablespoon  of 
chopped  parsley  before  serving;  also  season  highly  with 
salt  and  pepper. 

CREAM    OF   VEGETABLE   SOUP 

Melt  3  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  add  3 
tablespoons  each  of  chopped  celery,  turnip,  and  carrot,  and 
1  tablespoon  of  minced  onion,  4  bay  leaves,  and  4  blades  of 
mace.  Cook  together  very  slowly  for  twenty  minutes, 
stirring  frequently  to  prevent  browning ;  then  shake  in  3 
tablespoons  of  flour,  and  when  blended  put  the  contents 
of  the  frying  pan  into  a  little  less  than  3  pints  of  milk  made 
hot  in  a  double  boiler.  Cook  twenty  minutes  longer,  and 
then  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  into  a 
saucepan  containing  2  egg-yolks,  beaten  with  J  cup  of 
cream  or  milk.  The  soup  can  then  be  strained  and  served 
without  any,  or  with  only  a  few,  of  the  vegetables,  or  it  is 
delicious  served  without  straining.  It  can  be  made  at  any 
time  that  is  convenient  and  reheated  for  serving. 


Soupi 


IS 


PUREE    OF    VEGETABLE    MARROW 
(SUMMER   SQUASH) 

Slice  3  onions  and  cover  with  2  quarts  of  cold  water,  and 
when  it  boils  add  a  large  vegetable  marrow,  cut  in  thin 
slices.  Let  simmer  slowly  for  two  hours,  then  rub  all 
through  a  sieve ;  mix  1  tablespoon  of  ground  rice,  1  cup 
of  milk,  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and 
when  hot  add  to  the  soup.  Finish  with  2  tablespoons  of 
boiled  flageolets,  or  peas,  and  season  well  with  salt  and 
pepper. 


Ha 


AST  thou  named  all  the  birds  without  a  gun? 
Loved  the  woodrose  and  left  tt  on  tts  stalk? 
At  rich  mens  tables  eaten  bread  and  pulse? 

Oh,  be  my  friend,  and  teach  me  to  be  thtne! 
Ralph  Waldo  Emerson. 


VEGETABLES 


W. 


JERUSALEM   ARTICHOKES   IN   BUTTER 


ASH  1  quart  of  artichokes,  scrape  them  well,  and 
lay  them  in  salted  water  to  keep  them  from  discolouring, 
then  put  them  in  salted,  boiling  water  which  has  been 
whitened  with  a  little  milk,  and  boil  for  twenty  or  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Drain  and  arrange  in  a  buttered  baking 
dish ;  pour  over  them  3  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  and 
sprinkle  the  tops  with  browned  bread  crumbs  finely  rolled, 
and  set  them  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes. 

This  dish  makes  a  dainty  entremets  when  served  in 
individual  gratin  dishes,  in  which  case  2  or  3  artichokes 
should  be  arranged  in  each  dish.  The  little  dish  should  be 
served  on  a  small  plate  with  a  paper  doiley. 

JERUSALEM   ARTICHOKES   AU   GRATIN 

Prepare  the  artichokes  as  in  above  recipe,  arrange  them 
in  a  large  baking  dish,  or  in  small  individual  dishes,  cover 
them  with  white  sauce,  sprinkle  the  top  with  grated  cheese 
and  crumbs,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to 
brown. 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES  WITH  TOMATO   SAUCE 

Prepare  the  artichokes  as  in  the  first  recipe,  but  instead 
of  using  melted  butter  use  a  little  tomato  sauce,  and 
sprinkle  the  artichokes  with  browned  crumbs,   and  let 


8o  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 


heat  a  few  moments  in  the  oven  before  serving.  This 
also  is  a  dainty  dish  to  serve  after  the  soup  in  individual 
gratin  dishes. 

JERUSALEM   ARTICHOKES   WITH   FRENCH   SAUCE 

Prepare  as  directed,  and  in  the  water  in  which  the  arti- 
chokes are  boiling  put  1  large  onion  and  a  piece  of  celery 
finely  chopped.  After  removing  the  artichokes  take 
enough  of  the  stock  for  a  sauce,  season  it  nicely,  thicken 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  strain  and  pour  over  the  hot 
artichokes  and  serve. 

JERUSALEM   ARTICHOKE   FRITTERS 

Boil  the  artichokes  not  more  than  fifteen  minutes,  cut 
them  into  strips  \  of  an  inch  thick,  dry  them,  dip  them  in 
flour,  and  then  in  batter,  and  fry  a  golden  brown  in  good 
butter. 

FRIED   ARTICHOKES 

Boil  as  directed,  but  do  not  quite  finish  cooking;  let 
them  cool,  slice  them  and  fiy  in  melted  butter,  adding  1 
teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley  just  before  removing  from 
the  pan. 

FRENCH  FRIED   JERUSALEM   ARTICHOKES 

Scrape  and  wash  1  quart  of  Jerusalem  artichokes,  cut 
in  slices  lengthwise,  and  fry  in  a  frying  basket  in  hot 
vegetable  fat  or  oil  until  a  golden  brown.  Serve  with  a 
sprinkling  of  lemon  juice,  or  with  Dutch  butter  and 
browned  crumbs. 


Vegetables  8 1 


JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES  TARTARE 

Select  small  artichokes,  or  cut  them  round  with  a  patent 
cutter,  roll  them  in  yolk  of  ^gg  and  then  in  fine  crumbs, 
place  in  a  frying  basket,  and  fry  in  hot  vegetable  fat 
until  a  golden  brown.  Serve  veiy  hot,  garnished  with 
parsley,  and  with  a  tureen  of  sauce  Tartare.  Serve  alone 
after  soup. 


FRIED   ARTICHOKES   WITH   TOMATO    SAUCE 

Fry  artichokes  as  in  foregoing  recipe  and  serve  with 
hot  tomato  sauce. 


JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES   LYONNAISE 

Boil  the  artichokes  as  directed,  but  do  net  let  them 
quite  finish  cooking,  then  slice  them.  Put  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  melted  add  1  large 
onion  sliced  or  chopped,  and  when  onions  are  transparent, 
but  not  brown,  add  the  artichokes  and  fry  slowly.  Sprinkle 
with  chopped  parsley  or  chives. 

JERUSALEM   ARTICHOKE   PUREE 

Boil  1  quart  of  artichokes  as  already  directed,  drain, 
mash  and  press  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  stir  in  2  table- 
spoons of  melted  butter ;  then  stir  over  a  low  fire  until  the 
moisture  is  exhausted.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  when 
cold  add  4  eggs  which  have  been  well  beaten,  beating  them 
briskly,  and  adding  them  slowly  to  the  puree ;  also  beat  in 
1  tablespoon  of  whipped  cream.    When  thoroughly  mixed 

6 


82  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


and  light  from  much  beating  put  into  a  large  mould,  or 
into  individual  moulds,  and  steam  or  poach  with  water 
half-way  up  the  mould,  and  turn  out  and  serve  with  some 
good  sauce,  tomato  or  HoUandaise  preferred,  or  the  sauce 
described  as  being  made  with  the  water  in  which  the 
artichokes  were  boiled  can  be  used ;  to  it  should  be  added 
1  teaspoon  of  finely  chopped  parsley. 

JERUSALEM   ARTICHOKES   NEWBURG 

Make  a  sauce  with  2  cups  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of 
butter  mixed  with  1  of  flour,  2  yolks  of  eggs,  and  pepper 
and  salt,  and  when  thickened  add  2  tablespoons  of  sherry, 
and  3  cups  of  sliced  boiled  artichokes,  and  ^  cup  of 
blanched  chopped  almonds.    Serve  on  toast  or  in  cases. 


FRENCH  OR  GLOBE  ARTICHOKES 

The  globe  artichoke  is  a  most  delicious  addition  to  a 
vegetarian  menu,  and  it  is  not  because  it  is  not  known  to  be 
edible,  but  because  many  people  do  not  know  how  either 
to  eat  it  or  to  serve  it,  that  it  is  not  oftener  seen  in  America. 
I  have  had  it  served  to  me  in  almost  every  European 
country  and  often  in  restaurants  in  America,  and  have 
never  encountered  but  one  cook  who  knew  how  it  should 
be  sent  to  the  table  after  cooking,  and  one  waiter  who 
knew  how  to  serve  it  when  it  got  there.  It  is  usually 
served  half  cold  with  the  leaves  falling  all  about  it  because 
the  "thistle,"  and  usually  the  best  of  the  artichoke  besides, 
has  been  carelessly  removed  in  the  kitchen;  instead  of 
v,hich  it  should  be  sei-ved  whole,  as  in  this  way  only  can 
it  be  kept  hot  enough  to  be  palatable.     The  artichoke 


Vegetables  8  3 

should  be  set  stem  end  downward  on  a  hot,  flat  dish  and 
wound  about  at  the  base  with  a  small  table  napkin,  and 
the  person  who  serves  it,  holding  it  in  the  napkin,  should 
reverse  it  and  taking  a  small,  sharp,  silvered  knife  should 
cut  through  the  artichoke  on  the  bottom,  using  a  sawing 
motion,  and  with  the  help  of  a  serving  fork  ease  apart 
the  '* thistle"  and  the  closely  knitted  small  leaves  in  the 
centre.  Unless  the  artichokes  are  very  large  ones,  a  half 
of  one  is  not  too  much  to  serve  each  person.  The  "thistle" 
should  be  removed  by  the  server,  and  this  should  be  done 
by  carefully  separating  it  from  the  "fond"  or  base,  which 
is  the  fleshy  part  from  which  the  leaves  grow  out.  The 
leaves  should  be  taken  one  by  one,  by  the  dry  tip,  in  the 
fingers,  and  the  fleshy  end  thus  pulled  from  the  base 
should  be  dipped  in  the  sauce  served,  and  the  soft  portion 
removed  by  drawing  it  between  the  front  teeth ;  when  the 
leaves  are  finished  the  base  should  be  cut  up  with  a  fork 
and  eaten  with  the  sauce. 

TO    STEAM   GLOBE   ARTICHOKES 

Prepare  for  cooking  as  in  the  above  recipe,  place  in  a 
covered  steamer,  and  let  steam  forty  minutes  or  until  the 
leaves,  when  pulled,  part  easily  from  the  base. 

TO   BOIL   GLOBE   ARTICHOKES 

Globe  artichokes  should  not  look  dry  and  wrinkled 
when  bought,  but  green  and  fresh.  Put  them  in  cold 
salted  water  and  a  little  vinegar  for  fifteen  minutes  to 
cleanse  and  free  from  insects,  then  put  them  in  salted 
boiling  water  and  boil  until  the  leaves  part  easily  from  the 
base  when  pulled ;  this  should  be  in  about  half  an  hour. 


84  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 

but  the  time  varies  with  the  age  and  size  of  the  arti- 
choke ;  it  should  then  be  drained  and  the  stem  cut  off  so 
that  it  will  stand  erect  on  the  serving  dish. 

GLOBE  ARTICHOKES  STUFFED  WITH   MUSHROOMS 

Cut  the  stalk  from  fresh  artichokes  and  trim  the  leaves 
to  an  even  length,  and  boil  them  for  twenty  minutes,  or 
until  the  choke  or  thistle  can  be  removed  neatly.  Put  1 
tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  melted  add 
2  finely  minced  shallots  (or  use  chives  or  onion  tops),  and 
1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  and  1  cup  of  chopped  fresh 
or  canned  mushrooms,  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  all 
together  for  five  minutes.  Fill  the  artichoke  with  this,  tie 
the  leaves  together  and  set  in  a  pan  containing  1  cup  of 
stock  (or  water),  2  tablespoons  of  butter  or  olive  oil,  and 
bake  them  half  an  hour,  basting  them  thoroughly  five  or 
six  times.  Remove  the  strings,  set  upright  and  serve  very 
hot  with  Dutch  butter,  or  any  sauce  preferred. 

GLOBE   ARTICHOKES   VINAIGRETTE 

Serve  cold  boiled  artichokes,  which  have  been  cut  in 
half  and  the  "thistles"  removed,  with  sauce  vinaigrette, 
which  is  French  dressing  to  which  a  little  chopped  onion 
or  onion  juice  and  chopped  parsley  have  been  added. 

FONDS   D'ARTICHAUT 

The  bottom  or  solid  part  of  the  globe  artichoke  can  be 
bought  preserved  in  bottles ;  heat  them  in  their  own  liquid, 
drain,  and  serve  hot  with  HoUandaise  sauce,  or  cold  with 
sauce  vinaigrette  or  mayonnaise. 


Vegetables  8  5 


ASPARAGUS 

Asparagus  should  be  carefully  looked  over  and  washed, 
and  then  tied  into  a  bunch  with  a  piece  of  tape,  with  all 
the  heads  level,  then  with  a  very  sharp  knife  an  inch  or 
two  of  the  stalks  should  be  so  evenly  cut  off  that  the  bunch 
will  stand  upright.  Stand  the  asparagus  in  a  deep  sauce- 
pan so  that  the  tips  are  well  out  of  the  water,  add  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  put  a  cover  on  the  saucepan,  and  let  cook 
about  half  an  hour  or  twenty-five  minutes.  In  this  way 
the  tips  are  sufficiently  steamed  by  the  time  the  stalks  are 
cooked,  and  will  not  be  cooked  to  pieces  as  when  immersed 
in  water. 


ASPARAGUS   WITH   WHITE   SAUCE 

Having  boiled  the  asparagus  as  directed,  lift  it  out  by 
plunging  a  sharp  fork  into  it  two  or  three  inches  from  the 
bottom,  lay  it  on  a  hot  plate  on  the  top  of  the  stove,  cut 
the  tape  and  arrange  4  or  5  pieces  each  on  long  strips  of 
toast,  and  pour  over  each  2  tablespoons  of  nicely  seasoned 
white  sauce;  arrange  neatly  on  a  long  platter  with  the 
asparagus  heads  all  turned  one  way. 


ASPARAGUS   WITH   DUTCH   BUTTER 

Proceed  exactly  as  in  above  recipe,  but  instead  of  the 
white  sauce  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  all,  and  serve 
with  a  small  tureen  of  Dutch  butter. 


86  Golden  Rule  Cook-Book 


HOT   ASPARAGUS   TIPS 

Take  a  can  of  asparagus  tips,  drain  and  put  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  into  which  some 
paprika  has  been  shaken.  When  hot  garnish  with  dia- 
monds of  toast  to  serve,  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 

WHITE   ASPARAGUS 

Open  canned  asparagus  at  the  bottom,  and  after  drain- 
ing, ease  it  from  the  can,  so  as  to  prevent  the  tips  from 
being  injured.  Lay  the  stalks  evenly  in  a  shallow  enam- 
elled pan,  cover  with  hot  water  or  the  juice  from  the 
can,  and  let  heat  through  over  a  slow  fire.  Remove  after 
ten  minutes'  cooking  to  a  heated  flat  dish,  using  a  strainer 
to  lift  the  stalks  from  the  water.  Serve  with  Dutch  butter, 
into  which  a  few  browned  crumbs  have  been  stirred,  or 
chopped  chives  can  be  used  instead  of  crumbs.  The  as- 
paragus can  also  be  served  with  tomato  sauce. 

ASPARAGUS   VINAIGRETTE 

Place  the  can  of  asparagus  to  be  used  on  the  ice  for 
half  an  hour,  then  open  and  drain  and  rinse  carefully  in 
cold  water.  Place  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  using  5  or  6 
stalks  on  each,  and  serve  with  sauce  vinaigrette. 

FRIED   TIPS   WITH    ONION   BUTTER 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  tablespoon  of  grated  onion  and  the  drained 
contents  of  1  can  of  asparagus  tips.  Let  all  cook  together 
slowly  for  five  minutes,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 


Vegetables  8  7 


ASPARAGUS   TIPS   WITH   WHITE   SAUCE 

Heat  1  can  of  asparagus  tips  with  1  tablespoon  of  melted 
butter,  and  to  serve,  cover  with  f  of  a  cup  of  highly  seasoned 
white  sauce  in  which  the  white  of  1  hard-boiled  ^^^g  has 
been  mixed,  after  being  chopped  fine.  Sprinkle  over  the 
top  the  yolk  of  the  ^gg  pressed  through  a  sieve,  and  serve 
with  squares  of  toast. 


ASPARAGUS   IN   BREAD    CASES 

Boil  2  cups  of  asparagus  tips  in  salted  water  for  fifteen 
minutes,  and  then  drain  them;  while  they  are  cooking 
put  1  cup  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  when  boiling 
pour  some  of  it  on  to  2  lightly  beaten  eggs,  stirring  vigor- 
ously meanwhile,  and  then  put  the  eggs  into  the  double 
boiler  with  the  milk,  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
Add  1  teaspoon  of  butter,  J  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  J  salt- 
spoon  of  pepper,  and  remove  from  the  fire.  Cut  the 
asparagus  tops  into  half-inch  pieces  and  add  them  to 
the  sauce.  Take  5  stale  rolls,  cut  off  the  tops,  remove  the 
inside,  and  let  them  dry  in  the  oven ;  when  crisp  and  hot 
fill  each  with  the  asparagus  in  sauce,  replace  the  top  and 
serve. 

ESCALLOPED   ASPARAGUS 

Use  either  fresh  green  asparagus,  or  canned  asparagus. 
Cut  it  into  two-inch  lengths,  and  if  fresh  is  used  cook  in 
boiling  water  for  ten  minutes.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter 
in  a  frying  pan  and  brown  in  it  \  cup  of  bread  crumbs 
and  \  cup  of  finely  chopped  roasted  peanuts.  Roll  each 
bit  of  asparagus  in  beaten  egg  and  the  crumbs  and  nut 


88  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


mixture,  and  arrange  in  a  buttered  gratin  dish  with  alter- 
nate layers  of  thick  white  sauce,  seasoning  each  layer  with 
a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  the  top  with  crumbs  and 
a  sprinkling  of  grated  cheese,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 


GRIDDLED   APPLES 


Peel  and  core  large  sour  apples.  Cut  them  in  thick 
slices  and  lay  on  a  well-buttered  griddle,  and  let  fry  until 
a  light  brown ;  turn,  and  brown  the  other  side. 


APPLE   FRITTERS 


Pare  and  core  as  many  tart  apples  as  required,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  dip  in  batter,  and  fry  until  golden  brown  in  hot 
fat.    Drain  on  brown  paper  before  serving. 


BOILED   BANANAS 


Put  bananas  unpeeled  into  boiling  water,  let  boil  for 
ten  minutes,  then  peel  and  cut  in  two  and  serve  with 
melted  butter. 


BANANAS   WITH   TOMATOES 

Peel  3  bananas  and  cut  them  in  slices  either  lengthwise 
or  across,  and  slice  3  or  4  large  tomatoes.  Put  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  melted  lay 


Vegetables  8  9 

in  the  bananas  and  tomatoes  and  sprinkle  well  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Let  cook  slowly,  and 
when  browned  on  the  bottom  turn  and  add  another 
sprinkling  of  sugar,  brown  again,  and  serve  very  hot. 


BANANA   FRITTERS 

Pare  the  bananas  required,  cut  each  in  half  crosswise, 
and  then  split  each  half.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  dip  in 
batter  and  fry  until  a  golden  brown  in  hot  fat.  Drain  on 
brown  paper  and  serve  very  hot. 


BOSTON   BAKED   BEANS 


Cover  with  cold  water  3  or  4  cups  of  dry  California  pea 
beans,  or  any  small  white  beans,  and  let  them  soak  over 
night.  The  next  morning  drain  and  put  on  the  stove  in 
a  large  kettle  well  filled  with  water,  and  let  cook  slowly, 
wdth  I  of  a  teaspoon  of  soda  added,  for  half  an  hour. 
Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  the  bean-pot,  or  a  deep 
baking  dish,  drain  the  beans,  and  put  them  in  the  butter. 
Pour  over  them  slowly  4  tablespoons  of  dark  molasses, 
1  tablespoon  of  salt,  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter; 
then  fill  the  bean-pot  to  the  top  with  hot  water  and  bake 
in  a  very  slow  oven  for  6  or  7  hours.  As  the  water  cooks 
away  replace  it.  This  will  require  doing  about  three 
times  during  the  baking.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  they 
were  cooked,  and  garnish  with  whole  black  pickled 
walnuts. 


90  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 


GREEN   STRING   BEANS 

If  fresh  beans  are  used  pick  them  over,  remove  the  ends 
and  "strings,"  and  boil  for  half  an  hour  or  more;  then 
drain  them,  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  2  table- 
spoons of  milk,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve 
after  ten  minutes'  slow  cooking.  If  canned  beans  are 
used  omit  the  first  long  boiling. 

GOLDEN   WAX   BEANS 

If  fresh  beans  are  used  wash,  remove  the  ends  and 
"strings,"  and  boil  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until 
tender,  in  salted  water;  then  drain  and  add  to  them  1 
tablespoon  of  butter,  and  2  tablespoons  of  milk,  let  cook 
slowly  for  ten  minutes,  and  season  well  with  salt  and  pep- 
per.   In  using  canned  beans  omit  the  first  boiling. 

FRENCH   BEANS    (FLAGEOLETS) 

Those  in  glass  are  the  best ;  drain  and  put  in  a  double 
boiler  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  1 
tablespoon  of  cream.     Serve  very  hot. 

DRIED   BEANS   DEUTSCHLAND 

Pick  over  1^  cups  of  dried  beans  of  any  sort,  cover  with 
water,  and  soak  ten  hours  or  more.  Drain  and  put  in 
boiling  water  (or  the  stock  onions  or  leeks  have  boiled  in), 
and  let  cook  slowly  for  two  hours,  or  until  tender  but  un- 
broken, then  drain.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  fry- 
ing pan,  and  when  melted  add  1  onion  chopped  fine,  and 
let  it  cook  slowly  for  ten  minutes ;  then  add  the  beans  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  put  over  them  2  table- 


Vegetables  9 1 

spoons  of  lemon  juice  or  1  tablespoon  of  "reduced  vinegar," 
and  let  cook  very  slowly  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  that  all 
may  be  well  blended  before  serving. 

WHITE   BEANS   FLORENTINE 

Soak  4  cups  of  white  kidney  beans  for  ten  hours,  then 
boil  them  two  hours.  Slip  the  skins  off  and  put  them  into 
a  saucepan  with  1  cup  of  broth  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
1  bay  leaf,  and  2  tablespoons  of  Marsala  or  sherry.  Cover 
and  let  them  cook  slowly  for  thirty  minutes.  Remove 
the  herbs  and  stir  in  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  table- 
spoon of  flour  rubbed  well  together,  stir  until  smooth, 
and  then  pour  on  1  cup  of  cream  or  milk  into  which  1  ^g^ 
has  been  beaten;  continue  to  stir,  add  1  tablespoon  of 
lemon  juice,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  and  serve 
with  grated  cheese. 

Y 
BEANS   AND    CORN   ESCALLOPED 

Use  1  can  of  green  string  beans,  or  Lima  beans,  and  1  can 
of  sweet  corn.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  and  arrange  a  layer 
of  beans ;  dot  mth  butter,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
then  put  on  this  a  layer  of  corn  about  half  an  inch  deep, 
season,  and  so  proceed  until  the  dish  is  filled.  Then  pour 
\  cup  of  milk  over  all,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and 
bake  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  the  crumbs  are  browned. 

ITALIAN   BEANS 

Use  3  cups  of  white  haricot  beans,  soak  for  several  hours, 
boil  two  hours  in  salted  water,  then  drain.  Put  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when  melted  add  1 


92  Golden   Rule   Cook-Eook 

large  onion  chopped  fine  and  2  bay  leaves.  Let  cook 
slowly  for  eight  minutes,  then  put  into  the  pan  the  boiled 
beans,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  let  heat  through, 
stirring  gently,  and  add  1  cup  of  tomato  sauce  two  minutes 
before  removing  from  the  fire. 

Canned  brown  or  red  beans  may  be  used,  gi^'ing  the 
same  dish  practically  with  far  less  trouble. 


SPANISH    BEANS 

Soak  for  eight  or  ten  hours  any  sort  of  large  dried  beans, 
then  drain  them  and  put  them  into  boiling  water  two  hours 
or  more,  or  until  cooked.  One  way  of  testing  them  is  to 
remove  a  few  and  blow  on  them ;  if  the  skins  crack  they 
are  done.  Drain,  and  put  them  in  a  bean-pot  or  casserole 
and  sprinkle  with  2  tablespoons  of  chopped  onion  and  2 
cups  of  strained  tomatoes,  and  dredge  well  with  salt. 
Cover  the  dish  and  bake  slowly  for  an  hour.  A  quarter 
of  an  hour  before  taking  out,  pour  over  them  1  tablespoon 
of  melted  butter  and  remove  the  cover. 


LIMA    BEANS 

Let  Lima  beans  stand  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  or  so 
after  they  are  shelled,  and  in  cooking  them  allow  8  cups 
of  water  to  every  4  cups  of  beans.  Put  them  in  boiling 
salted  water,  and  let  them  cook  for  an  hour,  or  more  if  not 
fresh  picked.  Drain  them  and  add  ^  cup  of  the  water 
they  cooked  in,  \  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and 
season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Dried  beans  must  soak  ten  or  twelve  hours  and  cook 


Vegetables  o  % 


two  hours.  Canned  Lima  beans  only  need  reheating, 
drainincr,  and  a  little  milk  and  butter  and  seasonincj  added 
to  them. 


LIMA    BEANS    HOLLANDAISE 

Boil  1  quart  of  beans  until  tender,  salting  them  well 
when  half  cooked.  Beat  a  large  tablespoon  of  butter  to 
a  cream,  beat  in  the  yolk  of  1  q^q^,  1  tablespoon  of  finely 
chopped  parsley,  1  saltspoon  of  black  pepper,  and  5  tea- 
spoons of  lemon  juice;  when  this  sauce  is  well  mixed 
stir  it  into  the  beans,  taking  care  not  to  break  them. 


CREAMED    LIMA   BEANS 

Cover  '■2  cups  of  boiled  Lima  beans  with  1  scant  cup  of 
cream,  and  let  simmer  in  a  double  boiler  for  ten  minutes ; 
then  add  1  teaspoon  of  butter,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  a  dash  of  nutmeof. 


LIMA    BEAN    SAUQUETASH 

Boil  2  cups  of  freshly  picked  Lima  beans  in  1  quart  of 
water  for  half  an  hour,  then  drain  them  and  add  1  cup 
of  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  enough  green  corn 
cut  from  the  cob  to  make  ^  cups.  Season  well,  and  let 
simmer  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  salt  again  before  serving. 

If  canned  corn  and  canned  beans  are  used  they  need 
be  cooked  for  onlv  ten  minutes. 


94  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


BEETS 

Great  care  should  be  taken  in  washing  beets  that  the 
small  rootlets  are  not  broken  or  the  skin  of  the  beet  bruised, 
as  anything  which  causes  the  juice  to  escape  injures  both 
the  taste  and  the  colour.  In  the  city,  beets  are  seldom 
obtainable  which  require  less  than  two  or  three  hours' 
cooking ;  but  really  young,  small  beets  should  not  require 
more  than  one  hour's  boiling.  When  boiled  they  should 
be  drained,  then  plunged  into  cold  water,  after  which  the 
skin  can  be  rubbed  off  with  the  hand.  Some,  however, 
prefer  that  beets  should  be  baked  or  steamed ;  the  time 
required  to  cook  will  then  be  somewhat  longer.  Canned 
beets  are  a  great  convenience. 

CREAMED   BEETS 

Boil  6  or  7  medium-sized  beets  until  tender,  then  re- 
move them  from  the  saucepan  and  place  them  in  cold 
water;  rub  the  skins  off  carefully  with  the  hands,  and  cut 
them  in  half-inch  cubes.  Make  a  sauce  of  2  tablespoons 
of  butter  creamed  with  2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  ^  cup  of 
the  water  in  which  the  beets  were  boiled,  2  tablespoons 
of  cream,  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  2  teaspoons  of  sugar, 
^  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  1  saltspoon  of  pepper.  Pour  the 
sauce  over  the  hot  beets  and  serve  in  a  heated  deep  dish. 

VIRGINIA   BEETS 

Carefully  peel  boiled  beets,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut 
into  very  thin,  even  slices,  laying  them  as  sliced  into  a 
heated  vegetable  dish ;  when  a  layer  has  been  made  over 
the  bottom,  dot  it  well  with  butter,  season  lightly  with 


Vegetables  9  5 


salt,  and  sprinkle  with  1  tablespoon  of  granulated  sugar; 
then  arrange  another  layer  of  beets  with  butter,  salt,  and 
sugar,  and  proceed  in  this  way  until  the  dish  is  filled. 
The  work  should  be  done  near  the  fire  in  order  that  the 
beets  may  not  cool,  as  the  dish  should  be  served  very  hot. 
If,  however,  the  beets  have  cooled  in  preparation,  set  them 
in  a  hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  and  turn  them  with  a  spoon 
in  the  dish  before  serving  in  order  that  they  may  be  juicy. 

PICQUANT   BEETS 

Peel  hot  cooked  beets,  cut  into  slices,  and  toss  about  for 
three  or  four  minutes  in  a  saucepan  which  contains  3 
tablespoons  of  butter  to  which  has  been  added  1  teaspoon 
of  plain  vinegar,  or  a  few  drops  of  tarragon,  2  cloves,  and 
1  teaspoon  of  sugar. 

GERMAN   BEETS 

Make  a  sauce  of  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  when  melted 
add  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  onion  juice,  \ 
teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of 
lemon  juice,  and  enough  hot  water  to  make  the  sauce  the 
right  consistency;  then  add  freshly  sliced  cooked  beets, 
and  let  cook  together  three  or  four  minutes  before  serving. 

PICKLED    BEETS 

Place  slices  of  cold  beets  in  a  deep  porcelain  or  glass 
receptacle,  place  some  peppercorns  among  them,  and  a 
few  allspice,  cover  with  mild  vinegar,  and  let  stand  ten  or 
twelve  hours  before  using. 


96 


Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


BRUSSELS   SPROUTS 

Brussels  sprouts  are  best  if  laid  for  ten  minutes,  after 
trimming  and  looking  over,  in  salted  cold  water  which 
contains  some  lemon  juice.  They  should  then  be  drained 
and  put  in  a  large  saucepan  filled  with  boiUng  water 
containing  salt  and  a  pinch  of  soda.  Parboil  in  this  ten 
minutes,  fhen  lift  them  -^dth  a  strainer  and  put  in  a  steamer 
above  the  boiling  water ;  cover,  and  let  steam  half  an  hour 
to  finish  cooking. 

If  sprouts  are  cooked  by  boiling  instead  of  steaming, 
leave  the  saucepan  uncovered,  as  this  will  keep  the  odour 
from  being  pronounced.  Boil  in  salted  water  from  twenty 
to  thirty  minutes,  drain  the  instant  they  are  tender,  and 
serve  with  melted  butter. 


BRUSSELS    SPROUTS   IN   DUTCH   BUTTER 

Put  boiled  Brussels  sprouts  in  a  saucepan  with  2  table- 
spoons of  melted  butter,  to  which  has  been  added  a  table- 
spoon of  lemon  juice ;  stir  until  hot  and  add  pepper  and 
salt. 

BRUSSELS    SPROUTS   WITH   CELERY 

Trim  and  wash  in  cold  running  water  1  quart  of  Brussels 
sprouts ;  then  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  and  let  them  boil  for  five  minutes;  then  drain 
and  cover  with  fresh  boihng  water  containing  1  teaspoon 
of  salt.  Boil  for  another  twenty-five  minutes  uncovered, 
and  then  drain  them.  Wash  enough  celery  to  make  1^ 
cups  when  cut  in  pieces  one  inch  long,  put  this  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  3  tablespoons  of  butter,  stir  well  together,  and 


Vegetables  9  7 

add  \\  cups  of  scalded  milk  containing  2  tablespoons  of 
flour;  when  this  is  thickened  add  the  sprouts,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  very  hot. 


BRUSSELS    SPROUTS   WITH   CHESTNUTS 

To  every  cup  of  Brussels  sprouts  allow  \  cup  of  blanched 
chestnuts  which  have  been  cooked  for  fifteen  minutes ; 
put  the  sprouts  and  chestnuts  together,  cook  another 
forty  minutes,  drain,  and  serve  with  white  sauce. 


BRUSSELS    SPROUTS   LYONNAISE 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  onion;  when  this 
is  beginning  to  brown  add  4  cups  of  boiled  sprouts,  and 
stir  together  for  three  or  four  minutes,  unless  the  sprouts 
were  cold,  in  which  case  they  should  be  tossed  about  with 
the  butter  and  onion  until  hot. 


CREAMED   BRUSSELS   SPROUTS 

Cover  freshly  boiled  Brussels  sprouts  with  a  white 
sauce  made  entirelv  of  milk,  or  of  the  stock  in  which  thev 
were  cooked,  with  1  tablespoon  of  cream  added. 


BRUSSELS    SPROUTS   IN   BREAD    CASES 

Cut  stale  bread  into  three-inch  squares,  and  with  a  sharp 
knife  cut  out  the  centre,  lea^-ing  a  bottom  and  four  sides 
Uke  a  box ;  brush  over  with  melted  butter,  and  brown  in 

7 


98  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


the  oven.  Serve  sprouts  prepared  in  any  of  the  above 
ways  in  these  cases ;  the  creamed  sprouts  are  perhaps  the 
best  served  this  wav. 


CABBAGE 

Wash  cabbage  carefully  after  cutting  it  in  half,  and  let 
it  boil  for  five  minutes  in  well-salted  boiling  water;  pour 
this  water  off  and  re-cover  with  fresh  boiling  water;  let 
cook  for  half  an  hour,  then  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  let 
finish  cooking,  which  will  be  in  about  another  half  an 
hour  for  a  medium-sized  cabbage. 

Cabbage  should  never  be  covered  while  boiling,  as 
covering  increases  the  odour  in  cooking. 


NEW   ENGLAND   CABBAGE 

Cut  a  cabbage  in  quarters,  wash  it  thoroughly, 
and  parboil  it  for  five  minutes  in  salted  water ;  then  drain 
and  cook  with  2  carrots  and  2  turnips  for  an  hour  or  until 
tender,  in  any  strong  vegetable  stock,  to  which  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  has  been  added.  Drain  and  dampen  with 
a  little  of  the  stock  to  serve,  and  season  well  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

WESTERN   CABBAGE 

Take  4  or  5  cups  of  shredded  white  cabbage  and  put  in 
a  frying  pan  in  which  1  tablespoon  of  butter  has  been 
melted.  Press  the  cabbage  into  the  pan,  dredge  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  pour  over  it  J  cup  of  vinegar  and  \  cup 


Vegetables  99 


of  v/ater ;   cover  and  let  cook  very  gently  for  half  an  hour 
or  somewhat  less. 

Red  cabbage  can  be  prepared  in  this  same  way,  and  a 
pretty  dish  is  made  by  using  equal  quantities  of  red  and 
white  cabbage. 

CABBAGE   SARMAS 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  onion  chopped  fine,  and  after  it  has  cooked 
gently  for  ten  minutes  stir  into  it  1  cup  of  boiled  rice, 
\  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of 
pepper,  and  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter.  Parboil  a 
small  cabbage  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  separate  its  leaves, 
and  into  each  leaf  roll  1  tablespoon  of  the  force-meat; 
pack  tightly  in  a  shallow  pan,  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  cover  with  the  water  in  which  the  cabbage  cooked; 
lay  2  bay  leaves  on  the  top,  and  let  simmer  for  fifteen 
minutes.    Serve  with  melted  butter  or  tomato  sauce. 

CABBAGE   LICHTENSTEIN 

Cut  one  large  cabbage  into  small  pieces,  not  using  the 
stalk.  Wash  well  and  put  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  with 
1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  tablespoon  of  caraway  seed. 
Cook  for  half  an  hour  uncovered,  then  add  to  the  cabbage 
4  large  potatoes  peeled  and  quartered,  season  afresh  with 
salt,  and  let  cook  another  twenty  minutes.  Put  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  melted  add 
1  onion  chopped  fine  and  1  tablespoon  of  flour;  let  all 
cook  together  until  brown,  then  scrape  the  contents  of  the 
frying  pan  into  the  cabbage,  etc.,  and  cook  slowly  for 
twenty  minutes  more,  or  until  the  stock  is  almost  cooked 
away. 


I  o  o  Golden   Rule    Cook  -  Book 


LADY  CABBAGE 

Boil  firm  white  cabbage  fifteen  minutes,  changing  the 
water  then  for  more  from  the  boiling  teakettle;  continue 
boiling  for  half  an  hour  or  until  tender,  then  drain  and 
set  aside  until  perfectly  cold.  Chop  fine,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  add  1  or  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  tablespoon 
of  butter,  and  \  cup  of  rich  milk.  Stir  all  well  together  and 
bake  in  a  buttered  dish  until  brown.  The  oven  should 
be  moderately  hot,  and  the  same  care  used  as  in  the 
baking  of  a  custard.    Serve  in  the  baking  dish. 

COLD   SLAW 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar  on  to  boil  in  a  saucepan, 
and  add  to  it  when  boiling  \  cup  of  sour  or  fresh  milk  or 
cream  containing  2  lightly  beaten  eggs;  stir  and  then 
add  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour 
over  4  cups  of  shredded  cabbage  arranged  in  a  deep 
bowl.     Serve  cold. 

GERMAN   RED    CABBAGE 

Put  3  or  4  cups  of  shredded  red  cabbage  into  a  saucepan 
with  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  finely  chopped  apple,  and 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  sprinkle  lightly  with  sugar, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover,  and  let  cook  from  half 
to  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

HUNGARIAN   CABBAGE 

Quarter  a  red  cabbage,  remove  the  stalk  parts  and 
wash  well,  and  put  it  in  a  kettle  containing  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover  it.    Let  boil  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour 


Vegetables  i  o  i 

or  until  tender,  and  then  drain,  gently  pressing  out  all  the 
water.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and 
when  melted  add  1  onion  chopped  fine  and  1  tablespoon 
of  flour ;  stir  until  smooth  and  let  cook  until  brown.  Then 
add  ^  cup  of  brown  sugar,  J  of  a  cup  of  vinegar,  and  salt 
well.  Add  the  shredded  cabbage  to  this,  and  let  all  simmer 
together  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  before  serving. 


PICKLED   RED    CABBAGE 

Chop  or  shred  enough  cabbage  to  make  2  quarts  (8  cups) 
and  add  to  it  1  large  onion  chopped  fine  and  1  tablespoon 
of  salt;  mix  well  together  and  let  stand  over  night  in  a 
covered  jar.  Next  day  press  through  a  colander  to  drain, 
and  then  place  a  layer  of  cabbage  in  a  jar,  sprinkle  over 
it  a  few  mustard  seeds  and  2  or  3  cloves,  and  proceed 
in  this  way  until  the  cabbage  is  all  used.  Do  not  press 
down.  Cover  with  cider  vinegar,  and  use  any  time  after 
twenty-four  hours. 


CREAMED    CARROTS 


Scrape  and  wash  enough  carrots  to  make  4  cups  when 
cut  in  dice,  and  put  them  in  a  double  boiler  containing  half 
milk  and  half  water  at  boiling  point.  Let  them  cook 
slowly  for  forty  minutes  or  until  tender,  then  drain  them 
and  put  them  in  a  hot  dish  at  the  side  of  the  stove.  Use 
1  cup  of  the  stock  they  cooked  in  to  make  a  sauce,  with  1 
tablespoon  of  butter,  1  of  flour,  and  plenty  of  salt  and 
pepper.    Pour  the  sauce  over  them  to  serve. 


I02  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


CREAMED  CARROTS  AND  POTATOES 

To  1  quart  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  in  dice,  add  1 
cup  of  boiled  diced  carrots.  Put  them  in  a  double  boiler 
and  cover  with  1^  cups  of  highly  seasoned  white  sauce, 
to  which  has  been  added  1  tablespoon  of  onion  juice  and 
1  tablespoon  of  finely  chopped  parsley;  let  boil  up  once 
and  serve. 

CARROTS   SAUTE 

Use  boiled  carrots  cut  in  dice  or  fancy  shapes  and  toss 
them  for  five  minutes  in  hot  butter.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  add  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Fancy  shaped  German  carrots  in  glass  bottles  can  be 
used  instead  of  fresh  ones. 


GLORIFIED    CARROTS 

Take  2  cups  of  diced  carrots  and  boil  them  in  slightly 
sweetened  water  about  half  an  hour,  or  until  tender,  and 
let  them  cool.  Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  into  a  saucepan, 
add  to  it  1  teaspoon  of  grated  onion,  and  toss  together  until 
hot;  then  add  the  diced  carrots  and  1  cup  of  well-made 
white  sauce.  Butter  small  individual  gratin  dishes,  fill 
them  with  the  carrot  mixture,  sprinkle  the  top  with  a  few 
lightly  browned  bread  crumbs,  then  with  chopped  chives, 
and  set  in  a  hot  oven  for  five  minutes.  Serve  alone  as  an 
entree,  placing  each  dish  on  a  small  plate  with  a  paper 
doily. 

This  dish  can  be  varied  by  using  more  chives  mixed  with 
the  carrots  and  omitting  the  onion,  or,  if  chives  are  not  at 


Vegetables  103 


hand,  they  can  be  omitted  when  the  onion  is  used,  and 
finely  chopped  parsley  substituted  to  garnish  the  top. 

The  quantities  given  here  can  be  doubled,  and  the 
carrots  cooked  in  a  large  baking  dish  as  an  addition  to 
the  main  course  of  a  luncheon  or  dinner. 


GLAZED  CARROTS 

For  this,  the  carrots  must  be  cut  into  even  cones  or 
ovals,  and  it  is  convenient  to  use  the  imported  carrots  in 
glass  bottles.  If  these  are  used  they  are  already  boiled; 
if  fresh  carrots  are  used  scrape  and  wash  them  and  cut 
out  the  little  shapes  with  a  patent  cutter,  then  boil  slowly 
until  tender,  but  not  quite  done,  and  put  2  or  3  cups  of 
them  in  a  frying  pan  with  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  which 
has  been  melted,  sprinkle  with  fine  sugar,  and  stir  over  a 
hot  fire  until  they  begin  to  brown ;  then  add  2  tablespoons 
of  the  stock  they  boiled  in,  continue  to  stir  them,  add 
more  stock  if  needed,  and  continue  stirring  until  the  carrots 
are  nicely  glazed.    Serve  alone  or  as  a  garnish. 


CARROTS   DELMONICO 

Scrape  and  cut  in  dice  enough  carrots  to  fill  a  small 
baking  dish ;  cover  with  boiling  water  in  which  is  1  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  let  cook 
for  half  an  hour,  or  until  tender.  Drain  and  let  them  cool, 
and  then  arrange  them  in  the  baking  dish  with  the  follow- 
ing sauce:  Melt  3  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  3  table- 
spoons of  flour,  and  when  this  is  smooth  stir  into  it, 
using  a  little  at  a  time,  1  cup  of  the  stock  in  which  the 
carrots  were  cooked,  \  cup  of  cream  or  milk  containing 


I04  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 

the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs ;  when  smooth  add  J  tablespoon 
of  lemon  juice,  and  salt  and  pepper  well.  Sprinkle  the 
top  with  finely  rolled  crumbs  and  let  brown  in  the  oven. 

CARROT   SOUFFLE 

Mix  2  cups  of  boiled,  mashed  carrots,  2  tablespoons  of 
chopped  onion,  fried  for  five  minutes  in  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  1  cup  of  milk  or  cream  in  which  3  egg-yolks  are 
beaten,  ^  teaspoon  of  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper,  and  when 
well  blended  add  lightly  with  a  fork  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  the  3  eggs.  Sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and 
bake  to  brown  about  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 


CAULIFLOWER 


Leave  all  the  green  that  looks  fresh  and  palatable  on  the 
cauliflower,  and  wash  it  and  let  it  stand  from  fifteen 
minutes  to  half  an  hour  in  salted  water.  Then  put  it  in 
a  saucepan,  stem  downwards,  with  the  top  barely  covered 
with  boiling  water,  and,  if  the  saucepan  is  not  too  large,  it 
will  keep  the  cauliflower  upright,  so  that  the  delicate  top 
will  not  cook  to  pieces  before  the  green  stalk  is  tender. 
A  small  cauliflower  will  take  half  an  hour  to  cook,  and 
the  lower  part  can  be  tried  with  a  fork  to  see  when  it  is 
tender.  Leave  the  saucepan  uncovered  in  cooking  cauli- 
flower, and  the  odour  from  the  cooking  will  be  very  much 
lessened  and  the  cauliflower  more  delicate  in  taste. 

CREAMED    CAULIFLOWER 

Boil  and  drain  a  cauliflower  and  serve  over  it  1  cup  of 
white  sauce. 


Vegetables  105 


CAULIFLOWER   AU   GRATIN 

Boil  a  large  cauliflower,  drain  it,  and  break  the  sprays 
apart.  Arrange  in  layers  in  a  buttered  baking  dish, 
sprinkling  each  layer  with  cheese,  and  seasoning  it  with 
pepper  and  salt.  When  the  dish  is  filled  pour  on  1  cup  of 
white  sauce,  sprinkle  the  top  with  crumbs  and  cheese,  and 
let  bake  fifteen  minutes  to  brown. 


CAULIFLOWER   IN   A   GERMAN   WAY 

Boil  a  cauliflower  and  drain  it,  dredge  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  cover  the  white  part  with  melted  butter,  and 
then  dust  this  with  browned  bread  crumbs ;  pour  |  of  a 
cup  of  Dutch  butter  over  it,  and  let  it  heat  for  five  minutes 
in  the  oven  in  the  shallow  gratin  dish  in  which  it  should  be 
served. 

ITALIAN   CAULIFLOWER 

Boil  and  drain  a  cauliflower  and  dredge  the  top  with 
pepper  and  salt,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  and  pour  a 
little  melted  butter  over  it.  Set  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes 
to  brown,  and  serve  surrounded  with  tomato  sauce. 


CAULIFLOWER   FRITTERS 

Boil  a  cauliflower  for  twenty-five  minutes,  or  until  nearly 
tender,  then  drain  it  and  let  it  cool.  When  cold  separate 
the  sprays  and  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  dip  in 
batter,  and  fry  in  deep  fat  until  a  golden  brown.  Drain 
and  serve  very  hot. 


io6  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


CREAMED   CELERY 

Scrape  and  trim  3  or  4  heads  of  celery,  leaving  the  roots 
on  and  cutting  the  tops  off ;  cut  each  stalk  in  half,  length- 
wise, and  into  pieces  five  inches  long ;  wash  carefully  in 
running  water,  and  then  blanch  in  boiling  water  for  ten 
minutes.  Drain  and  tie  the  stalks  together  like  bunches 
of  asparagus,  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  containing  2 
cups  of  water,  2  cups  of  milk,  \  a  carrot,  J  an  onion  with 
2  cloves  stuck  in  it,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  1  scant  salt- 
spoon  of  pepper,  and  let  simmer  three  quarters  of  an  hour 
or  more,  or  until  quite  tender  when  tried  with  a  fork.  Re- 
move the  celery,  strain  the  stock,  and  use  1  cup  of  it  in 
making  a  sauce,  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  table- 
spoon of  flour.  Untie  the  bunches  of  celery,  and  arrange 
them  evenly  on  toast  with  the  sauce  poured  over  them. 


CELERY   IN   BROWN   SAUCE 

Prepare  celery  as  above,  boil  for  three  quarters  of  an 
hour  or  until  tender,  drain,  and  cover  with  the  brown 
sauce  described  below,  omitting  the  wine,  and  serve  in  an 
ordinary  vegetable  dish. 


CELERY   IN   CASSEROLE 

Cut  celery  in  four-inch  lengths,  halving  each  stalk  length- 
wise, and  leaving  the  root  on,  wash  well  and  parboil  for 
ten  minutes  in  salted  water  or  milk,  and  arrange  in  a 
square,  covered  casserole.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in 
a  saucepan,  and  when  browned  add  2  tablespoons  of  flour. 
Stir  until  well  dissolved,  then  add  2  cups  of  the  water 


Vegetables  107 

in  which  the  celery  cooked,  1  scant  teaspoon  of  salt,  1 
small  saltspoon  of  pepper,  and  2  bay  leaves.  Stir  until 
smooth,  and  then  strain  and  pour  this  sauce  over  the 
celery,  add  1  teaspoon  of  sherry  or  Madeira,  cover  the 
dish,  set  it  in  a  shallow  pan  containing  a  little  water, 
and  let  it  cook  for  half  an  hour  in  the  oven.  Serve  in  the 
casserole. 

BAKED    CELERY 

Cut  2  bunches  of  celery  into  two-inch  lengths,  wash 
thoroughly,  and  let  blanch  in  boiling  water  and  milk,  using 
equal  quantities  of  each,  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  remove 
the  celery  and  let  it  cool;  add  to  1  cup  of  the  milk  and 
water  stock  1  tablespoon  of  butter  blended  with  1  table- 
spoon of  flour,  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  when  smoothed 
remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  into  it  vigorously  2  eggs. 
Arrange  the  celery  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  pour  the 
sauce  over  it,  spread  the  top  thickly  with  crumbs,  and  put 
in  the  oven.  Cover  for  twenty  minutes,  then  uncover  and 
let  brown  nicely  before  serving. 


CEPES  IN  BLACK   BUTTER 

French  Cepes  come  in  tin  or  glass.  Put  3  tablespoons 
of  butter  in  a  pan,  with  2  bay  leaves,  a  few  celery  seeds 
and  1  clove  of  garlic;  let  it  slowly  brown.  Strain  and 
add  cepes  and  let  them  heat  in  the  butter.  Season  with 
salt  and  paprika  and  serve  very  hot. 


io8  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


AMERICAN   SWEET   CORN 

Sweet  corn  on  the  cob,  which  has  been  picked  within 
twenty-four  hours  of  the  time  of  using,  should  be  dropped 
into  rapidly  boiling,  slightly  salted  water,  and  boiled  not 
more  than  eight  or  ten  minutes. 


ROAST   CORN 

To  roast  sweet  corn,  leave  the  husks  on  the  cob,  and 
put  in  a  slow  oven  and  let  bake  for  half  an  hour.  Take 
off  the  husks  and  silk  and  serve  at  once.  Some  think  this 
method  of  cooking  the  delicate  American  vegetable  re- 
tains the  flavour  of  the  corn  more  than  the  usual  way  of 
boiling  it. 

CORN   PUDDING 

Use  6  or  7  ears  of  sweet  corn,  and  cut  each  row  down 
the  middle  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  then  cut  the  grains 
from  the  ear,  and  add  to  them  2  cups  of  milk,  1  teaspoon 
of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  1  table- 
spoon of  melted  butter,  and  2  slightly  beaten  eggs.  Put 
this  into  a  baking  dish  and  bake  like  a  custard,  in  a  slow 
oven  for  half  an  hour,  taking  care  it  does  not  cook  too  long 
nor  get  too  hot  lest  it  curdle.  Canned  corn  may  be  used 
when  fresh  is  out  of  season. 


CORN  PUDDING  IN  TOMATO   OR  PEPPER  CASES 

Bake  the  preceding  in  cases  made  by  scooping  a  large 
part  of  the  inside  from  large,  solid  tomatoes,  or  in  hoUowed- 
out  green,  sweet  peppers. 


Vegetables  109 


CORN    CREOLE 

Put  1  can  of  corn  into  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  of 
chopped  green  peppers  and  \  cup  of  milk,  and  cook  slowly 
for  ten  minutes ;  then  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add 
1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  serve.  This  may  be  put  in  a 
baking  dish,  covered  with  crumbs,  and  baked  for  fifteen 
minutes. 

CORN   AND   TOMATO   PIE 

Butter  a  pudding  dish  and  fill  it  with  alternate  layers 
of  boiled  or  canned  corn  and  tomatoes,  and  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter ;  cover  the  top  with  pie-crust  and 
bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  If  a 
crust  is  not  desired  the  dish  can  be  covered  with  bread 
crumbs  and  browned.  If  fresh  tomatoes  and  corn  are 
used  the  pie  will  require  twice  the  time  to  cook,  the  first 
half  of  the  time  covered  with  a  plate,  and  the  last  half 
uncovered. 

CORN   CHOWDER 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  sliced  onion,  and  let  cook  slowly  for  five 
minutes ;  then  add  to  it  4  cups  of  potatoes  which  have  been 
parboiled  for  five  minutes,  and  then  cut  in  small  squares, 
and  2  cups  of  boiling  water.  Let  cook  for  twenty  minutes 
or  until  the  potatoes  are  tender,  then  add  1  can  of  sweet 
corn,  4  cups  of  hot  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  plenty 
of  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  heat  through.  Break  8  soda 
crackers  into  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  the  chowder  over  them 
to  serve. 


1 1  o  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


RHODE   ISLAND   ESCALLOP 

Bake  4  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes  for  half  an  hour, 
then  scrape  out  the  potato  and  chop  it  into  small  bits. 
Boil  2  ears  of  green  corn  for  ten  minutes,  run  a  sharp 
knife  down  each  row  of  grains,  cutting  them  in  two,  and 
then  cut  the  corn  from  the  cob  and  mix  it  with  the  chopped 
sweet  potato.  Butter  six  individual  gratin  dishes  and  fill 
them  with  the  mixed  corn  and  potato,  sprinkle  them  with 
salt,  pour  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  over  each,  cover 
with  bread  crumbs,  and  let  cook  for  eight  or  ten  minutes 
in  the  oven.  The  same  mixture  can  be  used  to  fill  a  baking 
dish,  and  enough  melted  butter  used  to  moisten  the  potato 
thoroughly.  

STEWED   CUCUMBERS 

Peel  4  or  5  cucumbers,  quarter  them,  and  cover  them 
with  boiling  salted  water,  and  let  them  cook  from  twenty 
to  thirty  minutes;  then  drain,  saving  the  water  in  which 
they  were  cooked.  Make  a  sauce  of  2  tablespoons  of 
butter  and  2  tablespoons  of  flour  rubbed  together,  and  2 
cups  of  the  water  in  which  the  cucumbers  were  boiled, 
stir  until  smooth,  and  when  it  boils  add  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  some  paprika ;  arrange  the 
cucumbers  on  slices  of  toast  and  serve  with  the  sauce 
poured  over  them. 

STUFFED    CUCUMBERS 

Peel  the  cucumbers  and  cut  into  pieces  about  two  inches 
long,  scoop  out  the  centre  of  each  piece  about  half-way 
down  to  form  a  cup,  fill  this  with  chopped  onions  and 


Vegetables 


III 


chopped  mushrooms  that  have  been  fried  together  in 
butter,  cover  the  tops  with  crumbs,  and  let  brown  in  the 
oven. 


FRIED    EGG-PLANT   WITH   SAUCE   TARTARE 

Peel  and  cut  an  egg-plant  into  half-inch  slices,  dust 
quickly  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  beaten  egg-yolk,  then 
in  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  vegetable  fat;  drain 
on  brown  paper  and  serve  very  hot.  Either  serve  sauce 
Tartare  with  this,  or  arrange  a  spoonful  on  each  round  of 
egg-plant.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of  watercress,  celery  tops, 
or  parsley. 

FRIED    EGG-PLANT   WITH    TOMATO    SAUCE 

Fry  as  in  foregoing  recipe  and  serve  a  savoury  tomato 
sauce  with  the  egg-plant.  Never  soak  egg-plant  in  salt 
and  water,  as  it  takes  away  its  crispness. 


CREAMED    ENDIVE 


Cut  the  outside  leaves  from  heads  of  endive,  and  wash 
the  endive  thoroughly ;  then  drain  and  put  in  boiling  salted 
water  for  fifteen  minutes.  Drain  again  and  cover  with 
cold  water  for  a  few  minutes,  then  chop  and  put  in  a 
saucepan  with  some  butter,  allowing  1  tablespoon  for 
each  head  of  endive,  cover  and  let  cook  slowly  for  ten 
minutes,  salt  well,  moisten  with  cream  and  sprinkle  with 
paprika,  and  serve  on  toast  or  garnished  with  triangular 
pieces  of  toast. 


112 


Golden   Rule   Cook  -  Book 


KOHLRABI 

These  are  very  nice  if  used  young,  when  not  much 
larger  than  an  egg.  Parboil  them  for  half  an  hour,  cut 
them  in  half,  and  put  them  in  a  frying  pan  containing 
melted  butter,  and  fry  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Serve 
over  them  the  butter  in  which  they  were  cooked,  and 
dredge  with  salt  and  pepper.  The  time  required  to  cook 
kohlrabi  depends  largely  of  course  upon  the  age  at  which 
it  is  picked. 

KOHLRABI   AU   GRATIN 

Slice  kohlrabi,  boil  twenty  minutes  or  until  nearly  tender, 
and  arrange  in  a  baking  dish  in  layers  with  cream  sauce. 
Season  each  layer  with  pepper  and  salt,  sprinkle  the  top 
with  crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 


LENTIL  PIE 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  to  it  1  finely  chopped  onion  and  let  this  fry 
slowly  for  ten  minutes ;  then  add  2  cups  of  boiled  German 
or  Egyptian  lentils  and  J  cup  of  brown  or  German  sauce, 
and  when  heated  through  pile  into  a  deep  dish;  dredge 
with  pepper  and  salt,  cover  with  pie-crust,  and  bake  in 
the  oven  until  brown. 

LENTILS  EGYPTIAN  STYLE 

Wash  2  cups  of  lentils,  soak  them  two  or  three  hours, 
and  drain  them  before  using.  Put  them  into  boiling 
water  well  salted,  cook  until  tender,  about  forty  minutes, 


Vegetables  113 

then  drain  again.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  into  a 
saucepan,  and  when  melted  add  1  large  onion  finely 
chopped;  cook  over  a  very  slow  fire  for  ten  minutes,  then 
add  the  lentils  and  2  scant  cups  of  boiled  rice,  and  stir  all 
together  with  a  large  fork  until  veiy  hot ;  dredge  well  with 
salt  and  pepper  before  serving. 


GERMAN   LENTILS 

Cover  2  cups  of  lentils  with  cold  water  and  let  them 
soak  two  or  three  hours;  drain  them  and  put  them  in 
boiling  salted  water  with  1  leek  (or  1  onion)  and  let  them 
cook  half  an  hour,  or  until  tender  but  not  broken.  Put  2 
tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  melted 
stir  into  it  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  let  brown ;  then  add 
2  finely  chopped  onions  and  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar 
and  2  tablespoons  of  the  water  in  which  the  lentils  cooked. 
Mix  this  sauce  with  the  drained  lentils,  put  them  in  a 
double  boiler  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg, 
and  serve  after  they  have  steamed  slowly  for  fifteen 
minutes. 


LEEKS 

Cut  leeks  into  three-inch  lengths,  using  the  tender  green 
part  as  well  as  the  white ;  wash  the  pieces  thoroughly  in 
cold  running  water,  then  put  them  in  a  small  saucepan 
and  cover  them  wdth  boiling  salted  water,  and  let  them 
boil  for  twenty  minutes. 

Make  a  sauce  by  melting  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
thickening  it  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  then  adding, 
1  tablespoon  at  a  time,  enough  of  the  water  the  leeks  were 

8 


114  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


cooked  in  (about  1  cup)  to  make  the  sauce  of  the  right 
consistency ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  drain  the  leeks, 
and  serve  the  sauce  over  them. 


MUSHROOMS 

Mushrooms  should  only  be  used  when  perfectly  fresh 
and  firm ;  in  peeling  them  take  a  small  knife,  and,  holding 
the  delicate  fringe  at  the  edge  of  the  mushroom  between 
the  edge  of  the  knife  and  the  thumb,  peel  the  paper-like 
skin  off,  pulling  it  toward  the  centre  of  the  mushroom. 
The  stems  should  be  cut  or  broken  off  without  breaking 
the  cup,  and  if  sound  should  be  scraped  and  used.  When 
the  mushrooms  are  white  and  small  and  freshly  picked 
they  can  be  quickly  washed  and  used  without  peeling. 

STEWED    MUSHROOMS 

Peel  about  1  pound  of  mushrooms,  put  them  m  a  sauce- 
pan with  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  saltspoon  of  pepper, 
1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  |  cup  of  milk,  into  which  1  table- 
spoon of  flour  has  been  mixed;  cover  and  let  cook  for 
five  or  six  minutes,  then  add  1  cup  of  cream,  stir  all  well 
together,  replace  the  cover,  and  let  cook  gently  for  ten 
minutes.  These  mushrooms  can  also  be  cooked  and 
served  in  an  Italian  casserole. 

GERMAN   STEWED    MUSHROOMS 

Peel  1  pound  of  mushrooms  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan, 
sprinkle  with  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  add  1  cup  of  milk, 
cover,  and  let  simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes.     Thicken 


Vegetables  115 

with  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour  dissolved  in  a  little  milk, 
and  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  a  grating  of  nutmeg, 
and  let  simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes  more  before  serving. 
Instead  of  lemon  juice  and  milk  a  cup  of  sour  cream  is 
often  used  in  Germany,  and  is  an  acceptable  substitute. 

MUSHROOM   AND   CHESTNUT   RAGOUT 

Use  an  equal  quantity  of  peeled  mushrooms  and  boiled 
Italian  chestnuts,  and  heat  in  a  rich  brown  sauce.  Serve, 
garnished  with  toast,  or  in  cases,  or  use  in  a  deep  pie  with 
a  top  crust  of  biscuit  dough. 

MUSHROOMS    NEWBURG 

Peel  1  pound  of  mushrooms,  cover  them  with  2  cups  of 
milk,  and  let  them  simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes.  Lift 
the  mushrooms  out  with  a  strainer,  and  make  a  sauce  of 
the  milk  by  adding  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  tablespoon 
of  butter,  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  wineglass  of  sherry, 
and  some  salt  and  paprika.  When  the  sauce  thickens 
replace  the  mushrooms  in  it,  let  them  heat  for  two 
minutes,  and  serve  on  toast  or  in  patty  cases. 

BAKED    MUSHROOMS   ON   TOAST 

Select  as  many  large  mushrooms  as  are  required,  and, 
after  peeling  them,  lay  each  one,  cup  upward,  on  rounds 
of  toast  which,  after  toasting,  have  been  dampened  by 
being  plunged  quickly  into  hot  water;  place  the  toast 
with  the  mushrooms  upon  it  into  a  shallow  buttered  pan, 
put  a  little  bit  of  butter  in  the  cup  of  each  mushroom, 


1 1 6  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  another  pan  the 
same  size,  and  let  cook  eight  or  ten  minutes.  Serve  at 
once,  with  a  garnish  of  parsley  or  watercress. 

GRILLED    MUSHROOMS 

Peel  or  wash  the  mushrooms,  and  put  them,  cup  up- 
ward, on  a  fine  wire  broiler  and  let  them  broil  over  a  hot 
fire  for  five  or  six  minutes,  putting  a  pinch  of  salt  in  each 
cup.  As  soon  as  hot,  remove  them  from  the  broiler  and 
serve  on  hot  plates,  taking  care  not  to  spill  the  juice  which 
has  formed  in  the  cups.  Garnish  with  watercress  or 
parsley. 

MUSHROOMS    SUR    CLOCHE 

Place  carefully  cleaned  mushrooms,  cup  upward,  on 
individual  gratin  dishes,  salt  each,  and  place  a  bit  of  butter 
in  the  cup,  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes.  To 
serve,  place  over  each  a  glass  "bell,"  which  can  be  bought 
for  this  purpose.  The  heat  is  thus  retained  in  the  mush- 
rooms during  service. 

MUSHROOMS   IN   CASSEROLE 

Put  into  a  French  or  Italian  casserole  \  cup  of  good 
butter,  and  when  melted  stir  into  it  f  of  a  pound,  or  a 
pound,  of  peeled  mushrooms,  and  dredge  well  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Cover  the  casserole  and  set  it  in  the  oven ;  after 
five  minutes'  cooking  stir  the  mushrooms,  mixing  them 
well  with  the  butter,  replace  the  cover,  and  repeat  the 
process  in  another  five  minutes;  let  cook  ten  minutes 
more,  and  serve  from  the  casserole  on  rounds  of  toast. 


Vegetables  117 


FILLED    MUSHROOMS 

Select  10  of  the  largest,  most  cup-shaped  from  \\ 
pounds  of  mushrooms.  Peel  and  lay  in  a  shallow  pan, 
cup  side  up.  Take  the  cleaned  stems  and  the  remaining 
mushrooms  and  chop  fine  and  put  them  in  the  cups ;  add 
1  teaspoon  of  melted  butter,  some  pepper  and  salt  to  each, 
and  let  bake  ten  minutes  or  until  done.  Serve  on  toast 
garnished  with  watercress,  or  under  the  glass  bells  already- 
mentioned. 


MUSHROOMS   WITH   TRUFFLES 

Toss  truffles  in  butter  in  a  hot  frying  pan  for  five  min- 
utes, sprinkle  the  cups  of  mushrooms  with  pepper  and  salt, 
fill  them  with  the  truffles,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  in  a 
covered  pan  in  a  hot  oven;  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves, 
with  parsley  butter. 


MUSHROOMS   WITH   PEAS 

Fill  the  cups  of  large  mushrooms  with  French  canned 
peas,  which  have  been  tossed  for  five  minutes  in  hot  butter. 
Season  and  set  in  a  covered  pan  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten 
minutes,  and  serve  on  toast  with  white  or  brown  sauce,  as 
preferred. 

MUSHROOMS   WITH   ONIONS 

Peel  2  medium-sized  onions  and  chop  them  fine,  and 
put  them  in  a  casserole,  or  saucepan,  with  1  tablespoon  of 


1 1  8  Golden  Rule   Cook-Book 


melted  butter.  Let  them  cook  slowly  for  ten  minutes,  then 
add  1  pound  of  mushrooms,  which  have  been  carefully 
washed  or  peeled,  and  another  tablespoon  of  butter,  and 
cover,  letting  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Season  well  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  serve  very  hot. 

Mushrooms  thus  prepared  may  be  put  in  a  deep  baking 
dish,  covered  with  crust  and  baked  in  a  pie. 


MUSHROOMS  WITH   EGG 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  porcelain  casserole,  or 
in  a  saucepan,  and  when  melted  put  with  it  1  pound  of 
peeled  or  washed  mushrooms;  let  simmer  gently  for  ten 
minutes,  then  add  to  them  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in 
slices,  and  half  a  cup  of  cream.  This  recipe  also  is  avail- 
able for  a  deep  pie;  put  in  a  baking  dish,  cover  with 
crust,  and  bake  until  slightly  browned. 


CANNED    MUSHROOMS 

Drain  the  mushrooms  from  1  can,  and  cut  them  in  half. 
Use  the  liquid  from  the  can  augmented  with  water,  if 
necessary,  to  make  brown  or  German  sauce.  Put  the 
mushrooms  in  a  saucepan  with  the  sauce,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  very  hot  on  toast. 

Button  mushrooms  can  also  be  cooked  by  simply 
draining  and  tossing  in  parsley  butter  until  hot;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  on  toast. 

Mushrooms  cooked  in  these  ways  are  suitable  for  filling 
peppers  or  tomatoes.     Canned  mushrooms  can  be  bought 


Vegetables  119 


which  are  put  up  with  truflBes,  and  add  variety  to  these 
different  dishes. 


CANNED   MUSHROOMS   CZARINA 

Open  a  can  of  button  mushrooms,  drain  them,  and  cut 
the  buttons  in  half,  if  very  large,  and  reserve  the  liquid. 
Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when  melted 
add  1  tablespoon  of  grated  onion,  2  bay  leaves,  2  cloves, 
2  peppercorns,  and  2  allspice.  Let  all  cook  together  slowly 
for  five  minutes,  then  pour  on  the  liquid  from  the  mush- 
rooms, with  enough  milk  added  to  make  2  cups,  season 
with  salt,  and  let  simmer  for  ten  minutes;  then  add  1 
tablespoon  of  flour  creamed  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
let  boil  up  once,  and  strain.  Put  the  sauce  and  the  button 
mushrooms  in  an  Italian  casserole,  set  this  in  the  oven  to 
heat  for  five  minutes,  and  serve  from  the  dish  on  triangles 
of  toast. 

MUSHROOM   LOAF 

Pour  good  clear,  well-strained  boiling  vegetable  stock 
onto  dissolved  vegetable  gelatine  or  arrowroot,  using 
about  1  tablespoon  to  every  2  cups  of  liquid.  Season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  1  can  of  button  mush- 
rooms, halved,  when  the  jelly  is  somewhat  set  so  that  they 
will  remain  in  place  evenly  dispersed.  Line  a  mould  with 
chopped  parsley  and  slices  of  pickled  walnuts,  pour  the 
jelly  into  it,  and  serve,  when  set,  ice-cold,  with  any 
savoury  cold  sauce  or  pickles.  A  few  chopped  nuts  may 
be  added  if  desired. 


1 2  o  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


STEWED   OKRA 

Cut  the  ends  off  the  pods  of  young  okra,  boil  for  one 
hour  in  salted  water,  then  drain  and  reheat  in  a  saucepan 
with  some  melted  butter. 

The  okra  can  be  used  as  a  garnish  to  boiled  rice. 
Canned  okra  needs  only  to  be  boiled  five  minutes,  drained, 
seasoned,  and  tossed  about  in  hot  butter  in  a  frying  pan 
for  two  or  three  minutes  before  serving. 


OKRA  AND   GRILLED   TOMATOES 

Cut  good  firm  tomatoes  in  half,  season  well  and  broil, 
then  serve  with  a  garnish  of  stewed  okra. 


STEWED    OKRA   WITH   TOMATO   SAUCE 

If  fresh  okra  is  used  prepare  as  in  stewed  okra  recipe, 
and  if  canned  okra  is  used  drain  and  heat  in  boiling  salted 
water.  Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and 
when  melted  lift  the  okra  from  the  boiling  v/ater  and 
place  it  in  the  frying  pan ;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  then  cover  with  1  cup  of  tomato  sauce,  and,  wnen 
thoroughly  heated  through,  serve. 


OKRA  AND   TOMATO   ESCALLOP 

Arrange  alternate  layers  of  sliced  canned  okra  and 
tomato  in  a  well  buttered  baking  dish,  separating  them 
with  layers  of  boiled  rice  well  seasoned  with  salt  and 


Vegetables  121 


pepper  and  dotted  with  butter.  Cover  the  top  with  fine 
crumbs  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  browned, 
in  the  oven. 


BOILED    ONIONS 


Peel  onions  under  cold  water  and  they  will  not  bring 
tears  to  the  eyes.  They  should  then  be  put  in  rapidly 
boiling  water,  and  this  changed  after  the  first  five  minutes 
of  cooking;  then  put  in  fresh  boiling  water,  salt  added, 
and  cooked  for  from  half  an  hour  to  forty  minutes.  If 
onions  are  not  covered  when  boiling  the  odour  will  be  less 
noticeable. 

Serve  boiled  onions  with  parsley  butter,  or,  after  drain- 
ing, cover  with  milk,  add  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  let 
boil  up  once  before  serving. 


CREAMED    ONIONS 

Use  onions  which  have  been  boiled  until  tender  but  not 
broken,  and,  after  draining,  serve  with  white  or  parsley 
sauce,  made  with  equal  quantities  of  milk  and  the  stock  in 
which  the  onions  cooked. 


BOILED    ONIONS   WITH   BROWN   SAUCE 

Serve  small  boiled  onions,  which  have  cooked  until 
tender,  but  not  broken,  with  any  hot  sauce,  —  tomato, 
brown,  mushroom,  etc. 


122 


Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


ONIONS   AU   GRATIN 

Prepare  as  for  creamed  onions,  making  a  white  sauce  of 
the  milk,  or  milk  and  water,  in  which  the  onions  have 
been  boiled.  The  onions  can  be  left  whole,  or  somewhat 
broken  up  in  the  sauce.  Fill  a  buttered  baking  dish  with 
onions  and  sauce,  dust  the  top  with  grated  cheese,  and  let 
heat  in  the  oven  five  or  six  minutes.  The  bottled  Parmesan 
cheese  is  convenient,  but  is  never  as  delicate  to  the  taste  as 
fresh  cheese  grated. 

ONIONS   WITH   CHEESE 

Arrange  boiled  onions,  which  are  not  broken  at  all  by 
boiling,  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  baste  well  with  melted 
butter,  and  dredge  with  grated  cheese,  and  set  in  the  oven 
a  few  moments  to  brown ;  serve  in  the  same  dish  or  remove 
to  a  small  platter  and  garnish  with  green,  or  use  as  a 
garnish  to  a  dish  of  other  vegetables.  Mashed  potatoes 
piled  high  (browned  on  top  with  salamander  or  under 
flame  in  gas  oven)  surrounded  with  these  onions  makes  an 
attractive  dish. 

ESCALLOPED   ONIONS 

Escalloped  onions  are  made  like  Onions  au  Gratin, 
except  that  the  cheese  is  omitted  and  replaced  by  a  layer 
of  fine  bread  crumbs. 


BAKED   ONIONS   WITH   CHESTNUTS 

Peel  as  many  onions  as  required  and  parboil  them  for 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  salted  water.    Drain  and  dry,  and 


Vegetables  123 


when  cooled  somewhat  remove  the  inside  and  fill  with 
chopped  chestnuts  which  have  been  tossed  in  hot  butter 
for  fifteen  minutes ;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and, 
if  liked,  a  little  sage ;  arrange  in  a  buttered  baking  dish, 
and  bake  for  half  an  hour,  covering  them  for  the  first 
fifteen  minutes.  If  they  seem  too  dry,  baste  with  a  little 
cream  or  onion  stock  and  melted  butter. 


ONION   SOUFFLE 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  stir  until  smooth,  and 
then  add  gradually  1  cup  of  milk,  and  season  with  paprika 
and  salt.    Let  boil,  then  add  \  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs, 

1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  IJ  cups  of  cold  boiled 
onions  chopped  fine,  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten. 
Mix  thoroughly,  then  add  the  stifily  beaten  whites  of  the 

2  eggs,  and  mix  them  gently  through  the  onion  mixture 
wdth  a  fork.  Put  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  or  in  individual 
cases,  sprinkle  fine  crumbs  on  top,  and  bake  about  fifteen 
minutes  to  slightly  brown  before  serving. 


BORDEAUX   ONIONS 

Peel  6  or  8  small  onions,  and  parboil  them  for  fifteen 
minutes  in  salted  water.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan  or  a  baking  dish,  with  1  tablespoon  of  chopped 
parsley  and  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  celery,  %  cloves,  1 
bay  leaf,  |  of  a  cup  of  claret,  1  cup  of  brown  sauce,  the 
juice  of  1  lemon,  pepper  and  salt.  Set  the  onions  in  this, 
cover,  and  let  cook  very  gently  for  half  an  hour  or  until 
tender.    Remove  the  bay  leaf  and  serve  with  the  sauce. 


12  4  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


ONION   AND   TOMATO   ESCALLOP 

Place  alternate  layers  of  fresh  onions,  sliced,  and  fresh 
tomatoes  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  covering  each  layer 
with  crumbs,  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Put  1^  cups  of 
water  over  and  bake  for  about  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 
Or  use  boiled  onions  and  canned  tomatoes,  dampen  with 
the  juice  from  the  tomatoes,  and  cook  twenty  minutes. 


ONIONS   BEATRICE 

Fill  a  large  bean-pot  (or  a  high  earthenware  covered 
jar  marmite)  with  small  Bermuda  onions,  two  inches  in 
diameter.  The  onions  should  be  left  whole,  but  a  sharp 
knife  can  be  used  to  make  two  cuts  in  the  shape  of  a  cross 
in  the  top  of  each,  as  this  insures  the  cooking  of  the  centre. 
While  arranging  the  onions  in  the  jar,  sprinkle  them  well 
with  salt,  also  with  black  pepper  (or  use  ^  dozen  pepper- 
corns instead),  put  in  3  bay  leaves,  and  distribute  1  tea- 
spoon of  mixed  herbs.  Cover  with  hot  water,  put  the  lid 
on,  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  or  in  a  slow  oven.  The 
onions  should  not  cook  to  pieces,  and  with  the  proper  heat 
will  be  cooked  through  in  about  two  hours;  this  time  is 
named  not  as  a  rule  but  as  a  guide.  Serve  in  the  mar- 
mite in  which  they  were  cooked. 


STUFFED   ONIONS 

Boil  the  onions  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  and  then 
remove  the  hearts,  leaving  the  outsides  as  cases  for  a 
filling.  Make  the  stuffing  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs 
mixed  with  the  chopped  centres  of  the  onions,  plenty  of 


Vegetables  125 

salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little  chopped  tomato  (or  tomato 
sauce),  or  some  chopped  green  peppers,  or  canned  pimen- 
tos, or  use  both  tomato  and  peppers.  Fill  the  onion  cases, 
and  arrange  in  a  buttered  baking  dish;  sprinkle  with  2 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  set  the  pan  in  water,  and 
bake  half  an  hour;  the  baking  dish  should  be  covered 
until  the  last  five  minutes,  and  the  onions  should  not  be 
allowed  to  go  dry ;  more  butter  can  be  added,  or  a  little 
hot  water  or  vegetable  broth,  if  they  cook  dry.  Serve  in 
the  baking  dish,  or  remove  to  a  small  platter  and  garnish 
with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

FRIED   ONIONS 

Peel  the  onions  and  cut  into  thin  slices,  and  when  a 
generous  tablespoon  of  butter  has  slowly  melted  in  a  frying 
pan,  put  the  onions  in  and  let  them  simmer  over  as  low  a 
fire  as  will  keep  them  cooking;  stir  them  frequently  and 
serve  when  transparent  and  turning  a  golden  brown. 

Fried  onions  can  be  served  alone  or  as  a  garnish  to 
heaped  up  mashed  potatoes.  They  are  saved  from  their 
extreme  commonplaceness  by  being  arranged  in  a  gratin 
dish,  not  over  an  inch  high,  dusted  with  a  sprinkling  of 
crumbs  or  grated  cheese,  and  given  three  or  four  minutes 
in  the  oven. 

FRENCH  FRIED    ONIONS 

Peel  medium-sized  onions,  and  slice  crosswise  carefully ; 
then  separate  the  slices  into  rings.  Drop  these  into  smok- 
ing vegetable  fat  or  oil,  and  let  fry  four  or  five  minutes  until 
crisp  and  a  rich  brown.  Lift  with  a  strainer  onto  brown 
paper  to  drain  a  moment  before  serving. 


126  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


ONIONS   IN   POTATO    CRADLES 

Make  potato  cradles  as  directed,  dredge  with  salt,  and 
fill  with  fried  or  French-fried  onions. 


SMALL   ONIONS 

Peel  small,  round,  pickling  onions,  parboil  them  ten 
minutes,  drain,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve  as 
a  garnish  to  other  vegetables  or  in  stews. 


GLAZED    ONIONS 

These  are  nice  used  either  as  a  garnish  to  another  dish 
(vegetable  croquettes,  mashed  potatoes,  etc.)  or  alone. 
Small  onions  should  be  used,  or  onion  hearts,  and  taken 
from  the  water  before  they  are  quite  cooked ;  then  put  in  an 
enamelled  pan  in  which  is  1  tablespoon  of  butter  which 
has  been  slowly  melted;  toss  them  about  in  this,  and 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  When  they  begin  to 
brown  add  1  tablespoon  of  the  water  in  which  they  were 
boiled,  and  as  this  is  taken  up  add  a  little  more,  and  pepper 
and  salt.  The  onions  will  be  browned  and  glazed.  Serve 
very  hot. 

ONIONS    AND    APPLES 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when 
melted  put  in  3  sliced  onions  and  3  sliced  apples ;  let  fry 
slowly  until  browned,  and  serve  on  toast. 


Vegetables  127 


BOILED    PARSNIPS    IN    SAUCE 

Wash  and  scrape  6  or  7  parsnips,  cut  them  in  half,  length- 
wise, and  put  them  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour.  Drain 
them,  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  con- 
taining 1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  let  them  boil  for  about  three 
quarters  of  an  hour.  While  they  are  finishing  cooking, 
prepare  a  sauce  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  table- 
spoon of  flour  rubbed  together,  and  put  in  a  saucepan  over 
a  slow  fire.  When  melted  and  smooth  add,  a  spoonful 
at  a  time,  some  of  the  stock  in  which  the  parsnips  are 
cooking,  until  about  2  cups  have  been  used ;  stir  until  well 
thickened  but  not  paste-like,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  pour  over  the  parsnips  after  draining  them. 

PARSNIPS    IN   BUTTER 

Scrape  and  wash  the  parsnips,  and  cut  them  in  eighths, 
lengthwise,  and  then  in  half.  Put  them  in  boiling  water, 
salt  well,  and  let  them  cook  for  about  three  quarters  of 
an  hour.  Drain  and  serve  with  \  cup  melted  butter  poured 
over  them,  which  contains  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley. 

FRIED    PARSNIPS 

Slice  cold  boiled  parsnips  lengthwise,  dredge  with  salt, 
and  fry  in  buttered  "pan  or  griddle  until  a  golden  brown, 
turning  with  a  pancake  turner. 

FRENCH   FRIED   PARSNIPS 

Use  cold  boiled  parsnips,  cut  in  any  shape  desired,  — 
balls,  or  long  strips,  —  and  put  them  in  a  frying  basket, 
and  fry  in  hot  fat  until  brown.  Drain,  and  dredge  with 
salt  to  serve. 


128  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 


BROILED    PARSNIPS 

Use  boiled  parsnips,  cut  each  in  3  slices,  lengthwise, 
dip  in  melted  butter,  broil  until  brown,  and  sprinkle  with 
salt  before  serving. 


GREEN    PEAS 


Newly  picked  green  peas  should  be  shelled  and  put  in 
a  double-boiler  with  a  little  salt,  and  1  teaspoon  or  more 
of  sugar,  and  no  water.  Cover  closely  and  keep  water 
in  under  pan  boiling  for  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 
Add  a  little  butter  before  serving. 

GREEN   PEAS   PAYSANNE 

Cook  peas  as  in  the  above  recipe  adding  a  few  lettuce 
leaves  which  have  been  washed  and  cut  in  strips.  Drain 
them  before  adding  butter  and  salt. 

CANNED    PEAS 

Canned  peas  should  be  slowly  cooked  in  their  own  stock 
for  ten  minutes,  drained,  and  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  little  milk  or  cream  added  to  them. 


CANNED    PEAS   WITH    ONION 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  onion;  let  simmer 


Vegetables  129 

for  five  minutes,  then  add  1  can  of  peas,  drained  of  their 
juice,  and  |  of  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk ;  season  well  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  after  ten  minutes'  slow  cooking. 


STUFFED    PEPPERS 


Slice  the  stem-end  from  sweet  peppers,  cut  out  the 
insides,  and  fill  with  a  mixture  made  of  1  cup  of  fine 
crumbs,  1  grated  onion,  \  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  1  teaspoon 
of  salt,  and  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter.  Set  in  a  pan 
containing  a  little  water  and  melted  butter,  and  bake  from 
twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour,  basting  occasionally. 

Peppers  can  be  parboiled  for  ten  minutes  before  stuffing, 
but  though  softer  they  lose  their  colour  to  some  extent. 


PEPPERS    STUFFED    WITH    MUSHROOMS 

Cut  the  stem-end  from  sweet  peppers,  remove  the  inside, 
and  fill  with  mushrooms  Czarina,  or  mushrooms  in  tomato 
sauce,  and  bake  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  basting  with 
a  little  butter  and  water,  which  should  be  in  the  pan  in 
which  they  are  cooked. 


PEPPERS   WITH    RICE 

Cut  the  stem-end  from  sweet  green  peppers,  remove  the 
inside,  fill  with  boiled  rice  and  chopped  tomato  in  equal 
proportions,  and  season  well  with  pepper  and  salt.  A 
few  chopped  mushrooms,  olives,  or  boiled  eggs  may  be 
added  to  the  filling.    Bake  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes, 

basting  with  butter  and  water. 

9 


130  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


GREEN    PEPPERS    WITH    EGG 

Parboil  6  green  peppers  for  five  minutes,  first  having  cut 
off  the  stem-end  and  removed  the  seeds.  Put  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  melted  add 
1  finely  chopped  onion,  and  let  it  cook  slowly  for  ten 
minutes ;  then  stir  in  3  tablespoons  of  fine  bread  crumbs, 
and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  catsup.  Upon  removing 
the  peppers  from  the  boiling  water  set  them  up  cup-like 
in  a  shallow  pan,  and  put  1  tablespoon  of  this  mixture  into 
each;  break  into  each  pepper  1  egg,  cover  with  some 
more  of  the  prepared  crumbs,  and  bake  for  ten  minutes  if 
the  eggs  are  liked  soft,  for  fifteen  if  liked  hard.  Serve  on 
toast  with  1|  cups  of  white  sauce  containing  2  tablespoons 
of  grated  cheese. 

PEPPERS    WITH    CORN 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  end  of  sweet  peppers,  remove  the 
inside,  and  fill  with  canned  corn,  well  salted ;  replace  the 
ends  and  bake. 

Peppers,  like  tomatoes,  may  be  filled  in  so  many  ways 
that  it  is  useless  to  endeavour  to  enumerate  them,  for  the 
ingenious  cook  can  multiply  them  without  end. 

ESCALLOP  OF  PEPPERS  AND  CORN 

Cut  enough  sweet  corn  from  the  cob  to  make  3  cups. 
Take  2  or  3  sweet  green  peppers  and  remove  the  insides, 
then  slice  them  in  very  thin  circles  and  arrange  a  layer  of 
the  corn  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  salt  it,  and  then  place 
some  rings  of  the  peppers,  then  another  layer  of  corn,  and 


Vegetables  131 

so  on,  until  the  dish  is  filled,  finishing  the  top  with  peppers. 
To  a  cup  of  cream  (or  milk)  add  1  beaten  ^gg  and  2 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter;  pour  this  over  the  whole, 
and  bake  for  half  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven.  Canned  corn  may 
be  used,  in  which  case  less  cream  will  be  needed. 


FRIED    PEPPERS 

Remove  the  seeds  from  6  sweet  green  peppers,  cut  the 
pods  in  squares  about  half  an  inch  across.  Put  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  melted  add  1 
sliced  onion,  and  let  simmer  for  two  or  three  minutes; 
then  put  into  the  pan  the  cut-up  peppers,  and  fry  for  ten 
minutes.  Add  \  cup  of  brow^n  or  tomato  sauce  and  serve 
on  toast  with  boiled  rice,  or  on  flat  rice  cakes. 


CREAMED    PIMENTOS 


Put  the  pimentos  from  1  can  into  2  cups  of  white  sauce, 
and  let  cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  ten  minutes.  Add  1 
tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  some  pepper  and  salt,  and 
serve  on  toast. 

ROLLED    PIMENTOS 

Remove  the  pimentos  from  the  can,  and  with  a  sharp 
knife  cut  them  open  on  one  side  and  open  them  out. 
Arrange  the  flat  pieces  thus  made  on  a  large  plate  or 
board,  with  the  inner  part  up,  and  spread  with  finely 
chopped  onion,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  celery  salt,  and  roll 
into  firm  rolls.    Place  these  in  a  well-buttered  tin,  add  a 


132  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 

little  hot  water,  cover,  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes ; 
then  uncover,  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  when  it 
melts  baste  the  pimentos  with  it.  Let  them  cook  five 
minutes  more,  and  serve  with  the  melted  butter  poured 
over  them,  or  with  parsley  butter. 

PIMENTOS   WITH    OKRA 

Split  the  pimentos  with  a  sharp  knife,  salt  the  inner  part, 
then  roll  each  around  a  pod  of  freshly  boiled  or  canned 
okra.  Place  in  a  well-buttered  pan,  add  a  little  hot  water, 
and  let  cook  ten  minutes  covered,  and  five  uncovered. 
Add  more  butter  during  the  last  five  minutes,  baste  the 
rolls,  and  serve  with  the  butter  poured  over  them,  or  with 
tomato  sauce. 

PIMENTOS   WITH   TOMATO 

Lay  the  large  flat  pimentos  from  a  can  on  a  platter,  and 
slide  into  each  a  slice  of  tomato  which  has  been  sprinkled 
with  salt  and  celery  salt.  Fry  in  a  covered  pan  for  five 
minutes,  and  serve  plain  or  with  caper  sauce. 


POTATOES 


Between  the  good  cooks  who  contend  that  a  potato  is 
never  properly  "boiled"  if  it  is  boiled  at  all,  and  those  who 
either  cook  potatoes  in  a  steamer,  or  put  them  in  cold  water 
which  is  carefully  watched  to  see  that  it  does  not  actually 
boil,  cooking  thus  until  the  potatoes  are  tender,  and  those 
who  drop  them  into  rapidly  boiling  salted  water,  letting 


Vegetables  133 

them  boil  hard  until  done,  there  is  wide  latitude  for  in- 
dividual preference.  I  would  advise  those  who  do  not 
have  potatoes  served  on  the  table  which  are  white  and 
floury  and  thoroughly  cooked  through,  to  see  that  one  of 
the  above-mentioned  ways  of  cooking  potatoes  is  carried 
out  in  their  kitchens.  Potatoes  put  in  boiling  water,  or 
put  in  a  covered  steamer  over  rapidly  boiling  water,  will 
cook  in  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour,  the  time 
depending,  of  course,  upon  the  size  and  age  of  the  potatoes ; 
they  should  always  be  carefully  scrubbed  and  cooked  in 
their  skins,  and  peeled  afterwards. 


MASHED    POTATOES 

Having  boiled  or  steamed  the  required  number  of 
potatoes,  peel  them  as  expeditiously  as  possible  and  break 
them  up  in  a  hot  saucepan;  mash  and  then  beat  them 
vigorously  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  a  fork,  add  a  generous 
piece  of  butter,  dredge  with  salt  and  a  little  pepper,  and 
beat  them  until  they  are  light ;  then  moisten  slightly  with 
a  very  little  hot  milk  or  cream,  beat  them  for  a  moment 
more,  and  serve  very  hot. 


POTATO   SOUFFLE 

Put  into  a  saucepan  3  or  4  cups  of  warm  mashed  potato 
and  1  tablespoon  butter.  Add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  table- 
spoons cream  (or  milk),  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  over 
fire  until  well  mixed.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Heap  in  a  buttered  baking 
dish  and  let  brown  on  the  top  in  the  oven. 


134  Golden   Rule   Cook  -  Book 


MASHED   POTATO    SOUFFLE   IN   CASES 

Select  large  potatoes,  scrub  them  and  let  them  bake  until 
mealy,  which  will  be  in  from  half  an  hour  to  three  quarters, 
then  cut  them  in  half,  lengthwise,  and  carefully  scrape  out 
the  potato,  laying  aside  the  skins  to  use  as  cases.  Mash 
the  potatoes  with  a  wire  potato-masher,  add  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  for  every  5  potatoes  used,  and  season  well  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff,  allow- 
ing 2  to  every  5  potatoes,  and  mix  them  lightly  through 
the  potato  with  a  fork;  fill  the  potato  skins  with  the 
mixture,  heaping  them  full;  brown  them  slightly  in  the 
oven  before  serving,  and  garnish  the  dish  on  which  thev 
are  served  with  sprigs  of  parsley.  Five  potatoes  will  fill 
6  or  7  cases. 


RICED   POTATOES 

Break  up  well-boiled  dry  potatoes  with  a  fork,  dredge 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  press  through  a  sieve  or  a  so- 
called  "ricer"  into  a  hot  serving  dish. 


RICED    POTATO    FRITTERS 

Boil  6  large  potatoes,  press  them  through  a  sieve,  and 
add  3  lightly  beaten  eggs,  2  teaspoons  of  flour  creamed 
with  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  2  cups 
of  milk.  Beat  well  together,  and  drop  from  a  large  spoon 
into  deep,  hot  fat ;  they  will  rise  to  the  top  a  light  brown 
when  done.  Chopped  chives  or  chopped  parsley  may  be 
added  to  the  mixture  if  desired. 


Vegetables  135 


MASHED    POTATOES   WITH    ONION 

To  4  or  5  cups  of  mashed  potato  add  1  cup  of  boiled 
onion  minced  to  a  pulp,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  table- 
spoon of  cream,  some  pepper  and  salt;  beat  lightly  to- 
gether, and  before  serving  brown  the  top  for  a  moment 
in  the  oven. 

BAKED   POTATOES 

Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size,  scrub  them  well,  place 
in  a  hot  oven  until  they  yield  to  pressure  of  the  fingers, 
which  will  be  in  most  cases  in  about  three  quarters  of  an 
hour.  They  should  not  stand  after  baking,  and  should  be 
served  in  an  open  dish.  A  baked  potato  that  is  worked 
with  the  fingers  while  being  turned  in  the  hand  a  few  times, 
becomes  light  and  soft. 


ROAST   POTATOES 

Pare  small,  round  potatoes,  and  lay  them  in  cold  water. 
Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  shallow  baking  pan,  and 
let  it  melt  in  the  oven;  then  wipe  the  potatoes,  and  lay 
them  in  the  pan,  rolling  each  in  the  hot  butter.  Let  them 
cook  in  a  moderate  oven  from  one  half  to  three  quarters 
of  an  hour,  and  baste  them  during  the  cooking  five  or  six 
times  with  the  butter.    Sprinkle  with  salt  before  serving. 

DENVER   POTATOES" 

Peel  several  smooth  oval  potatoes  and  cut  in  half,  length- 
wise. Dig  out  a  small  hole  in  the  centre  of  the  smooth 
side,  and  level  the  rounded  parts  so  they  will  sit  evenly. 


136  Golden   Rule   Cook-Bo  ok 

Put  a  lump  of  butter  in  each,  and  place  in  a  pan  with  a 
little  water,  first  dredging  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  bake 
about  twenty-five  minutes  or  until  browned. 

BROILED   POTATOES 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  lengthwise  into  quarter-inch 
slices,  dip  each  in  flour,  and  lay  in  a  folding  broiler.  Broil 
until  evenly  browned  on  both  sides,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  bit  of  butter  on 
each,  or  as  a  garnish  to  other  vegetables. 

FRIED   POTATOES   SOUFFLE 

Peel  and  trim  the  required  number  of  potatoes  to  a 
uniform  size,  cut  both  ends  straight  across,  and  then  slice 
the  potatoes  into  slices  about  j^  of  an  inch  thick,  and  drop 
them  into  cold  water  for  about  half  an  hour,  and  then 
dry  them  with  a  cloth.  For  the  frying  two  kettles  of  fat 
are  necessary,  one  of  which  must  be  perfectly  fresh ;  drop 
the  potatoes  into  the  used  fat  or  oil  and  let  them  fry  until 
about  half  done ;  but  do  not  let  them  brown  at  all ;  drain 
them  thoroughly  and  let  them  get  cold.  Five  or  six 
minutes  before  they  are  to  be  served  drop  them  into  the 
fresh  fat  which  should  be  almost  smoking,  move  them 
about  lightly  with  a  fork,  and  they  will  puff  out  to  a 
considerable  size;  let  them  become  a  golden  brown,  put 
them  in  the  oven  on  brown  paper  for  a  moment,  and  serve 
instantly. 

WHOLE   POTATOES   FRIED 

Use  very  small  new  potatoes,  and,  after  boiling  them, 
roll  in  ^^^  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot,  deep  fat. 
Use  alone  or  as  a  garnish  to  baked  tomatoes. 


Vegetables  137 


FRENCH -FRIED    POTATOES 

Peel  potatoes  which  are  of  medium  size  and  cut  into 
even  eighths,  lengthwise,  and  then  let  them  lie  in  cold 
water  for  fifteen  minutes ;  then  dry  them  between  the  folds 
of  a  clean  cloth,  and  put  in  a  frying  basket.  Immerse 
slowly  in  hot  fat,  and  fry  until  a  golden  brown ;  drain  at 
once,  and  dredge  with  salt. 


SARATOGA   CHIPS 

Cut  potatoes  into  thin  slices  with  a  potato  cutter,  lay  in 
cold  water  twenty  minutes,  dry,  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  fat 
until  crisp.  Drain  from  the  fat  onto  brown  paper,  dredge 
with  salt,  and  serve  very  hot. 


POTATOES   PARISIAN 

These  are  cooked  exactly  like  French-fried  potatoes, 
except  that  the  little  vegetable  cutter,  which  cuts  tiny 
globes  of  potato,  is  used  to  form  the  shapes.  Some  care 
must  be  taken  to  use  strength  enough  with  the  cutter  to 
make  it  cut  perfectly  round  balls. 


POTATO   STRAWS 

Peel  4  or  5  potatoes  and  then  cut  them  with  a  patent 
vegetable  cutter  in  strings ;  lay  them  in  very  cold  water  for 
twenty  minutes,  drain,  and  put  in  a  frying  basket,  and 
slowly  immerse  in  hot  fat,  and  let  them  fry  until  a  golden 
brown.    Drain,  and  dredge  with  salt  before  serving. 


138  Golden  Rule   Cook  -  Book 


POTATO    CRADLES 

Peel,  wash,  and  dry  potatoes  of  uniform  size  and  shape. 
Cut  in  two,  lengthwise,  and  scoop  out  the  inside,  and  fry 
the  potato  cases  in  hot  fat  until  brown;  then  drain  and 
sprinkle  with  salt.  Serve  hot  peas  heaped  up  in  each 
cradle  and  garnish  with  mint  or  parsley. 


POTATOES   LYONNAISE 

Take  5  or  6  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  cut  them  in  slices. 
Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  it  is 
melted  add  2  thinly  sliced,  medium-sized  onions,  and  fry 
these,  letting  them  cook  very  slowly  ten  minutes;  then 
season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  add  the  sliced  potatoes, 
and  let  these  fry  slowly,  turning  with  a  knife  until  they  are 
a  golden  brown ;  season  afresh  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
add  1  tablespoon  of  finely  chopped  parsley  before  serving. 
These  potatoes  will  take  a  great  deal  of  salt  and  pepper. 


GERMAN  FRIED   POTATOES 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when 
melted  add  5  or  6  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  in  slices,  season 
highly  with  salt  and  pepper,  fry  until  done,  which  will  be 
about  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes,  turning  with  a  knife; 
when  nearly  done  stop  stirring,  and  let  the  potatoes  brown 
on  the  bottom  of  the  pan;  serve  in  a  hot  dish  with  the 
browned  slices  on  the  top. 


Vegetables  139 


FRIED   POTATO   SAVOURY 

Fry  cold  sliced  or  diced  potatoes,  and  when  browned 
add  \  teaspoon  of  onion  juice  or  extract,  then  arrange  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish  in  laj^ers  with  grated  cheese,  pepper, 
salt,  and  some  butter  in  each  layer,  cover  the  top  with  a 
few  brown  crumbs  and  chopped  parsley  or  chives,  and  let 
heat  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven.  Chopped  chives  can  be 
arranged  with  the  layers  of  potato  if  the  flavour  is  liked. 


CREAMED    POTATOES 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  into  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley  and  pepper 
and  salt,  stir  until  very  hot,  then  add  a  scant  cup  of  milk, 
containing  1  teaspoon  of  flour  and  a  pinch  of  soda,  and 
when  this  boils  add  diced  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and,  when 
thoroughly  heated  through,  serve. 

ESCALLOPED   POTATOES 

Boil  10  or  12  medium-sized  potatoes  in  their  skins,  and 
after  peeling  slice  them  in  slices  \  of  an  inch  thick.  While 
the  potatoes  are  boiling  make  a  sauce  of  2  cups  of  milk, 
the  juice  of  1  onion,  salt  and  pepper,  2  tablespoons  of 
butter,  and  1  tablespoon  of  thickening  flour.  Butter  a 
baking  dish,  and  arrange  a  layer  of  potatoes,  cover  with 
sauce,  then  put  another  layer  of  potatoes,  and  so  continue 
until  the  dish  is  filled.  Then  cut  2  hard-boiled  eggs  in 
neat  slices,  arrange  them  over  the  top,  sprinkle  with 
cracker  crumbs  and  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley,  and 
cook  ten  or  twelve  minutes  in  the  oven. 


140  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 


POTATOES   DELMONICO 

For  a  large  baking  dish  4  cups  of  cold  boiled  diced 
potatoes  will  be  required.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  and  put  a 
layer  of  potatoes  an  inch  deep  in  the  bottom,  and  cover 
this  with  well  made  white  sauce,  and  sprinkle  slightly  with 
salt  and  pepper;  then  add  another  layer  of  potato,  and 
white  sauce,  and  seasoning,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish  is 
heaping  full,  and  then  sprinkle  the  top  with  grated  cheese, 
and  let  brown  well  in  a  hot  oven. 


OAK   HILL   POTATOES 

Butter  a  baking  dish  well,  and  place  in  it  alternate  layers 
of  sliced  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  hard-boiled  eggs,  season- 
ing  each  layer ;  then  pour  over  it  a  white  sauce  in  which 
grated  cheese  is  melted.  Cover  the  top  of  the  dish  with 
cracker  crumbs,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 


HEILBRONN   POTATOES 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  deep  saucepan,  and 
when  melted  stir  into  it,  with  a  flat-ended  wooden  spoon, 
2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  let  brown,  then  add  %  table- 
spoons of  vinegar  and  use  2  cups  of  boiling  water  or  vege- 
table stock  in  making  this  into  a  smooth  sauce.  Add  \  an 
onion,  sliced,  2  cloves,  2  allspice,  a  piece  of  thin  lemon 
peel,  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  and  let  cook  very  slowly, 
stirring  for  ten  minutes.  Then  add  more  vegetable  stock 
or  boiling  water  to  make  a  thin  sauce  and  strain  it;  re- 
turn to  the  fire  and  add  5  or  6  parboiled  thinly  sliced 
potatoes,  2  tablespoons  of  capers,  and  let  cook  slowly  for 


Vegetables  141 


fifteen  minutes,  stirring  frequently;  then  pour  into  the 
saucepan  \  cup  of  cream  (sour  preferred),  and  serve  in  a 
deep,  hot  dish. 

SAVOURY   POTATO   CAKES 

Chop  6  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  crush  with  a  potato 
masher  (or  use  cold  mashed  potato) ;  add  to  them  1  table- 
spoon of  mixed  herbs,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  onions, 
pepper,  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  and  1  beaten 
egg ;  mould  into  flat  cakes,  and  put  in  a  frying  pan  con- 
taining 1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter;  brown,  and  turn 
with  a  pancake  turner  to  brown  the  other  side. 

POTATO   HASH 

Put  8  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  2  medium-sized  onions 
in  a  chopping  bowl  and  chop  them  fine.  Melt  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  in  a  large  frying  pan,  place  the  potatoes 
and  onion  in  it,  and  smooth  the  top  even  with  a  fork. 
Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and  put  over  a  moder- 
ately hot  fire,  shaking  the  pan  vigorously  from  time  to 
time  to  keep  the  hash  from  burning.  If  it  is  shaken  instead 
of  being  stirred  it  will  brown  well  on  the  bottom.  Turn 
out  onto  a  hot  serving  dish,  with  the  browned  part  on 
top,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 

POTATO   OMELET 

Butter  a  frying  pan  with  1  teaspoon  of  butter,  and  cover 
the  bottom  of  the  pan  with  sliced  cold  boiled  potatoes 
laid  flat ;  let  these  fry  a  few  moments,  then  pour  over  them 


142  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 

2  well-beaten  eggs  and  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley 
or  chives,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  turn  from 
the  pan  when  browned. 

CURRIED   POTATOES 

Chop  1  good-sized  onion  very  fine,  and  fry  in  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  until  transparent  and  cooked,  but  not 
brown;  then  remove  most  of  the  onion  with  a  strainer, 
pressing  the  juice  from  it  into  the  butter,  and  put  in  4  or 
5  sliced  cold  boiled  potatoes ;  sprinkle  some  curry  powder 
and  salt  and  pepper  over  them  and  fry,  turning  them 
frequently  until  done.  The  amount  of  curry  can  vary 
from  1  to  2  teaspoons. 

POTATO   FRICASSEE 

Put  in  a  saucepan  1  generous  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1 
cup  of  milk ;  when  hot  add  some  cold  potatoes  cut  in  dice, 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice. 
Let  them  get  thoroughly  hot,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of 
2  eggs,  stir  constantly  until  thick.  Great  care  must  be 
taken  not  to  let  it  cook  too  long  or  the  sauce  will  curdle. 
Add  a  little  chopped  parsley  before  serving. 


POTATOES   RENNEQUIN 

Boil  6  potatoes,  peel  them,  and  let  them  dry  in  a  warm 
place  on  the  stove. 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  into  a  saucepan,  and  when 
partly   melted   slice   the  potatoes   into  it.     Now  add   1 


Vegetables  143 

tablespoon  of  water,  some  salt,  pepper,  and  1  tablespoon  of 
minced  parsley ;  let  it  become  thoroughly  heated,  then  add 
1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  and  serve  very  hot. 

POTATOES    AND    CHEESE 

Mince  or  chop  fine  5  or  6  peeled  raw  potatoes,  and  toss 
in  a  saucepan  with  2  tablespoons  of  butter  until  cooked. 
Place  a  layer  of  these  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese; 
then  add  another  layer  of  potatoes,  and  proceed  thus  until 
the  dish  is  full.  Pour  melted  butter  over  and  let  brown 
in  the  oven. 


ESCALLOPED    POTATO    AND    ONION 

Peel  and  slice  very  thinly  5  or  6  medium-sized  potatoes 
and  3  or  4  onions,  and  arrange  them  in  layers  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  dotting  them  with  butter,  and  sprinkling  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Over  all  pour  \  cup  of  milk,  or  enough 
to  dampen  well,  and  almost  cover,  and  set  the  dish  in  a 
shallow  pan  containing  a  little  water,  and  let  the  escallop 
cook  slowly  for  about  an  hour,  keeping  it  covered  for  the 
first  half-hour,  and  uncovered  afterward  to  brown.  Serve 
in  the  baking  dish. 


NEW   POTATOES   IN   BUTTER 

Scrub  small  new  potatoes  with  a  stiff  brush,  and  boil  or 
steam  them  for  twenty -five  minutes,  and  serve  them  with 
melted  butter  to  which  a  teaspoon  or  more  of  finely 
chopped  parsley  has  been  added. 


144  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 


CREAMED    NEW    POTATOES 

Scrub  small  new  potatoes  with  a  stiff  brush  which  will 
remove  the  skins,  and  boil  or  steam  them  about  twenty- 
five  minutes;  then  cover  them  with  a  highly  seasoned 
white  sauce. 


BAKED    NEW    POTATOES 

Scrub  the  skin  from  small  new  potatoes,  and  cook  in 
salted  boiling  water  about  twenty  minutes  or  until  tender. 
Make  a  white  sauce  of  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  and  1  cup  of  milk  seasoned  highly  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and,  after  arranging  the  boiled  potatoes  in  a  baking 
dish  or  casserole,  pour  the  sauce  over  them,  and  on  the 
top  of  all  pour  1  well-beaten  egg.  Put  the  dish  in  the  oven 
and  let  it  stay  just  long  enough  to  set  the  egg.  Sprinkle 
with  chopped  parsley  before  sending  to  the  table.  If  pre- 
ferred the  egg  can  be  added  to  the  white  sauce  instead 
of  being  put  on  top. 


MOCK  NEW   POTATOES 

Peel  the  required  number  of  large  old  potatoes,  and  with 
a  Parisian  potato  cutter  cut  them  into  small  balls;  drop 
these  in  boiling  water,  and  when  done  cover  with  a  highly 
seasoned  white  sauce,  to  which  is  added  a  very  little 
chopped  parsley. 


Vegetables  145 


BOILED    SWEET   POTATOES 

As  the  skin  of  sweet  potatoes  does  not  come  off  well 
after  cooking  it  is  best  to  peel  them  before  baking  or 
boiling. 

Select  large  sweet  potatoes,  put  them  in  boiling  water, 
and  let  them  boil  from  half  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 
Peel  them  and  arrange  them  in  a  hot  dish,  with  J  cup 
of  melted  butter  poured  over  them. 


BAKED    SWEET   POTATOES 

Wash  and  peel  the  sweet  potatoes  and  put  them  in  the 
oven.  A  medium-sized  potato  will  take  about  forty 
minutes  to  bake. 


MASHED    SWEET   POTATOES 

Peel  and  boil  6  or  7  sweet  potatoes,  drain  off  all  the 
water,  and  then  mash  with  a  wire  potato-masher  in  the 
saucepan  in  which  they  were  cooked ;  mix  with  them  while 
hot  2  tablespoons  of  good  butter,  and  dredge  generously 
with  salt,  and  serve  very  hot. 


SWEET   POTATO    SOUFFLE 

Mix  with  mashed  sweet  potatoes  when  slightly  cooled 
the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  then  the  stiff  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Heap  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  let  brown  in 
the  oven. 

10 


146  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 


ESCALLOPED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Slice  what  will  make  4  or  5  cups  of  cold  boiled  sweet 
potatoes,  butter  a  baking  dish,  and  arrange  a  layer  of 
potatoes  in  the  bottom,  making  it  an  inch  thick.  Sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  dot  well  with  butter.  Then  arrange 
another  layer,  proceed  as  before,  and  so  on  until  the  dish 
is  filled.  Then  pour  over  all  ^  cup  of  water  in  which  2 
tablespoons  of  sugar  are  dissolved.  Put  the  dish  in  the 
oven,  and  in  ten  minutes  baste  with  2  tablespoons  of  water. 
Let  cook  five  minutes  more  or  until  browned  on  top. 


STUFFED    SWEET   POTATOES 

Bake  in  their  skins  the  number  of  potatoes  required,  cut 
them  in  half,  scoop  out  the  inside,  and  mix  with  chopped 
celery,  and  minced  onion,  and  melted  butter,  allowing  1 
tablespoon  of  celery  and  J  teaspoon  of  onion  to  each 
potato.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  refill  the  skins, 
and  let  brown  in  the  oven. 


SOUTHERN   SWEET   POTATO    PIE 

Bake  4  large  sweet  potatoes,  then  scrape  the  inside  from 
them,  and  beat  into  it  lightly  with  a  fork  2  tablespoons  of 
butter,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  3  well-beaten  eggs,  1  cup 
of  warm  milk,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  mixed 
spice.  Line  a  baking  dish  with  pastry,  fill  with  the  potato, 
and  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 


Vegetables  147 


TEXAS   SWEET   POTATO    PIE 

Boil  4  or  5  sweet  potatoes  for  half  an  hour  or  until 
cooked.  Line  a  large  baking  dish  with  pie-crust,  slice  the 
potatoes  lengthwise  while  still  hot,  and  put  a  layer  of 
them  on  the  crust,  and  cover  this  with  long  strips  of  pastry. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar,  dot  with  butter,  and  add  a  little  nut- 
meg ;  then  place  another  layer  of  potato,  and  another  of 
pastry,  and  so  on,  until  the  dish  is  nearly  filled.  Pour  on 
enough  boiling  water  to  almost  fill  the  dish,  and  cover 
the  top  with  pastry  like  any  deep  pie,  cutting  it  here  and 
there  to  let  the  steam  escape.  Bake  for  about  twenty 
minutes,  or  until  the  crust  is  a  little  browned. 

MARYLAND  SWEET  POTATOES 

Peel  6  or  8  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes,  quarter  them 
lengthwise,  and  lay  them  in  a  large  saucepan  having 
rounded  sides.  Add  to  the  potatoes  2  heaping  table- 
spoons of  butter,  and  3  heaping  tablespoons  of  granulated 
sugar,  and  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  water,  and  stir  until  the 
sugar  and  butter  are  dissolved.  Cover  closely  and  let 
them  cook  for  four  or  five  minutes  undisturbed,  then  stir 
again  with  a  wooden  spoon,  being  careful  to  see  that  the 
syrup  is  not  sticking  on  the  bottom,  re-cover,  and  from 
now  on  let  cook  only  a  couple  of  moments  at  a  time 
before  again  stirring.  The  water  will  of  course  soon  cook 
away;  let  the  potatoes  cook  rapidly  in  the  hot  syrup 
until  they  begin  to  soften,  then  put  them  where  the  fire  is 
less  hot,  and  let  them  cook  slowly  until  done.  The  entire 
cooking  should  not  take  more  than  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes, and  the  thick  brown  sauce  should  be  thoroughly 
scraped  from  the  saucepan  and  served  over  the  sweet 
potatoes. 


148  Golden   Rule   Cook- Book 


CANDIED    SWEET   POTATOES 

Lay  pared  sweet  potatoes  cut  in  slices  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish  with  a  cover.  Sprinkle  each  layer  with  brown 
sugar,  salt  and  pepper  and  cinnamon,  and  dot  with  bits 
of  butter.  Pour  in  ^  cup  of  boiling  water  for  ^  dozen 
potatoes  and  baste  while  cooking.  Cook  moderately  until 
tender,  from  half  an  hour  to  three  quarters,  depending 
on  the  heat  of  the  oven.  The  cinnamon  can  be  omitted 
if  not  liked. 


GRIDDLED    SWEET   POTATOES 

Cut  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  in  slices,  lengthwise,  and 
lay  them  on  a  buttered  griddle;  when  browned  on  one 
side  turn  with  a  pancake  turner  and  brown  the  other  side. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  serve  very  hot. 


FRIED    SWEET   POTATOES 

Cut  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  in  half-inch  squares  and 
fry  them  in  melted  butter.  Salt  well,  and  stir  with  a  knife, 
and  let  brown  as  much  as  possible  without  burning. 


FRENCH -FRIED    SWEET   POTATOES 

Cut  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  in  sixths,  lengthwise, 
place  in  a  frying  basket,  and  fry  for  about  five  minutes, 
or  until  well  browned.    Drain  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 


Vegetables  149 


GLAZED    SWEET   POTATOES 

Let  sweet  potatoes  boil  until  nearly  done,  then  drain 
and  cool.  When  cold  cut  them  in  inch-thick  slices,  or 
into  rounds  with  a  patent  cutter,  mix  them  well  with 
melted  butter  and  sugar,  using  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  to 
each  \  cup  of  butter,  and  put  them  in  a  deep  dish  in  a 
hot  oven  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  well  browned. 


CREAMED    SALSIFY  (OYSTER   PLANT) 

Remove  the  tops  from  2  bunches  of  salsify,  scrape  and 
cut  to  shape,  and  put  in  a  bowl  of  cold  water  containing 
some  lemon  juice,  to  retain  the  whiteness.  Drain  and  put 
in  boiling  water,  using  enough  to  cover  it,  and  let  cook 
about  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  salting  the  water  during 
the  last  half-hour's  boiling.  Drain  and  serve  with  highly 
seasoned  white  sauce  or  parsley  sauce  made  with  the  water 
in  which  the  salsify  cooked,  with  the  addition  of  a  little 
milk  or  cream. 

ENGLISH    SALSIFY 

Boil  salsify  as  directed  above,  drain,  and  serve  with 
bread  sauce,  serving  fine  browned  bread  crumbs  with  the 
sauce. 

SALSIFY  IN   COQUILLES 

Boil  the  salsify  as  directed,  and  press  through  a  sieve; 
then  beat  into  it  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  season  highly, 
arrange  in  buttered  coquilles  or  ramekins,  sprinkle  grated 
cheese  over  the  top,  and  let  brown  in  the  oven. 


150  Golden   Ride   Cook  -  Book 


ESCALLOPED    SALSIFY 

Boil  salsify  as  directed,  not  letting  it  quite  finish  cooking ; 
slice,  and  arrange  in  buttered  baking  dish,  with  layers  of 
slightly  browned  crumbs  dotted  with  butter,  and  sprinkled 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  paprika.  Pour  \  cup  of  milk  or 
cream  over  to  dampen,  then  cover  the  top  with  crumbs,  and 
bake  about  fifteen  minutes.  An  egg  can  be  beaten  with 
the  milk  to  make  the  dish  richer  if  wanted. 


MASHED    BLACK   SALSIFY   (SCHWARZWURZEL) 

Proceed  as  with  ordinary  salsify,  except  that  it  is  best 
not  to  peel  or  cut  this  sort  of  salsify  until  after  boiling. 
When  boiled,  peel,  and  mash  the  white  part,  using  1 
tablespoon  of  cream  to  each  cup  of  salsify,  1  teaspoon  of 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Arrange  in  individual  dishes  or 
cases  with  crumbs  on  top,  and  bake  ten  minutes  to  brown. 

FRIED    SALSIFY   TARTARE 

Use  cold  boiled  salsify,  cut  in  any  shape  desired,  dip  in 
egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  until  browned.  Drain 
well,  dredge  with  salt,  and  serve  with  sauce  Tartare. 


SPINACH 


Spinach  should  be  well  picked  over,  leaf  by  leaf,  and 
washed  in  several  different  waters,  and  changed  to  a 
different  pan  each  time  it  is  washed,  that  the  sand  may  be 
left  behind  with  each  washing.  Then  put  it  in  a  large 
kettle,  with  a  scant  cup  of  water  for  a  peck  of  spinach,  and 


Vegetables  151 

let  it  cook  over  a  slow  fire  until  tender ;  in  this  way  its  own 
juices  will  be  extracted,  and  it  will  be  more  tasty  than  if 
cooked  in  water.  It  should  be  then  drained  and  chopped 
extremely  fine,  or  until  as  nearly  a  pulp  as  possible,  and 
then  mashed  in  a  mortar  or  with  a  potato-masher.  It  is 
then  ready  to  prepare  in  any  way  desired  for  the  table. 

Delicious  spinach  can  be  had  canned,  and  if  this  is  used 
it  needs  only  to  be  very  finely  chopped  and  mashed,  then 
seasoned,  and  prepared  in  any  of  the  following  ways. 

GERMAN   SPINACH 

Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  in  it  let 
simmer  for  ten  minutes  1  good-sized  onion  that  has  been 
finely  chopped,  then  add  4  cups  of  the  boiled,  chopped, 
and  mashed  spinach  to  it,  and  stir  well  together,  and  season 
thoroughly  with  salt  and  pepper;  finish  with  \  teaspoon  of 
grated  nutmeg,  and  1  or  2  tablespoons  of  whipped  cream, 
and  pile  high  in  a  heated  dish,  covering  the  top  with  the 
chopped  whites  and  riced  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs. 

SPINACH   WITH   WHITE    SAUCE 

Prepare  as  in  the  above  recipe,  using,  instead  of  the 
cream,  \  cup  of  highly  seasoned  white  sauce,  and  at  the 
last  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  or  1  tablespoon  of  reduced 
vinegar. 

GERMAN    SPINACH   WITH    RHUBARB 

Another  German  way  of  preparing  spinach  is  to  cook 
rhubarb  leaves  or  flowers  (or  both)  with  the  spinach  for 


152  Golden   Rule  Cook -Book 

the  puree  and  to  add  chives.  If  canned  spinach  is  used 
the  rhubarb  leaves  should  be  cooked  and  chopped  and 
added  to  the  canned  spinach  before  it  is  macerated. 


ITALIAN    SPINACH 

Wash  J  peck  spinach  and  cook  twenty-five  minutes 
without  water.  Drain,  chop  to  a  fine  pulp,  mash  until 
smooth  in  a  mortar,  season  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  encircle  with  a  garnish  of  well- 
scrambled  eggs  to  which  has  been  added  2  tablespoons  of 
grated  cheese. 

NOVELTY    SPINACH 

Drain  a  can  of  spinach  and  chop  it  very  fine,  and  then 
mash  it  until  smooth.  Put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  1  table- 
spoon of  chopped  chives  or  grated  onion,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  sprinkle  the  whole  surface  well  with  grated  nutmeg. 
Hard  boil  3  eggs,  remove  the  yolks,  and  mix  them 
thoroughly  with  the  spinach.  Chop  the  whites,  and 
arrange  the  spinach  on  rounds  of  toast,  placing  2  table- 
spoons on  each  piece,  garnish  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
and  pour  on  each  2  tablespoons  of  cheese  sauce.  If  the 
arrangement  on  toast  is  not  desired,  the  cheese  sauce  can 
be  mixed  with  the  spinach  before  serving  it. 


SPINACH   SOUFFLE 

Take  2  cups  of  cooked  chopped  spinach,  mash  to  a 

Eulp,  add  1  cup  of  white  sauce  and  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
eaten  very  stiff,  season  well,  and  pile  lightly  in  timbale 


Vegetables  153 

cups;  set  these  in  a  pan  of  water,  and  let  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  fifteen  minutes  or  less.  Before  serving 
sprinkle  the  top  of  each  with  riced  yolk  of  hard-boiled 


BAKED    SQUASH    OR   PUMPKIN 

Cut  a  pumpkin  or  a  squash  in  triangular  or  square 
pieces,  about  three  inches  across,  scrape  the  seeds,  etc., 
from  each  piece,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
spread  with  butter.  Set  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  for 
half  an  hour  or  until  browned.  Serve  garnished  with 
sprigs  of  parsley.  It  should  be  eaten  from  the  shell  with 
additional  butter. 


CALIFORNIA   SQUASH 

Take  a  very  young  summer  squash,  which  if  it  be  young 
enough  need  not  be  pared,  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces. 
Fry  half  an  onion  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  when 
transparent  and  beginning  to  brown  add  the  squash  to  it 
and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Let  all  cook  together 
for  ten  minutes,  and  then  add  |  of  a  cup  of  hot  water,  and 
let  cook  until  the  squash  is  quite  tender. 


STEWED    TOMATOES 


Empty  1  can  of  tomatoes  into  a  double  boiler,  and  put 
with  them  1  cup  of  crumbled  bread  without  crust,  stir  well 
together,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  cover,  and  let  cook 
slowly  for  half  an  hour,  stirring  from  time  to  time.    Just 


154  Golden   Rule   Cook  -  Book 

before  serving  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
While  the  tomatoes  will  be  ready  to  serve  with  half  an 
hour's  cooking,  they  are  improved  by  cooking  an  hour, 
and  are  better  still  if  warmed  again  after  cooling. 

ESCALLOPED    TOMATOES 

Drain  the  juice  from  1  can  of  tomatoes.  Butter  a  baking 
dish,  and  cover  the  bottom  with  the  tomatoes;  dot  with 
butter,  dredge  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  sprinkle  gener- 
ously with  fine  bread  crumbs;  arrange  another  layer  of 
tomatoes,  and  crumbs,  and  so  proceed  until  the  dish  is 
filled.  Pour  over  all  enough  of  the  juice  of  the  tomatoes 
to  moisten  well,  and  then  finish  the  dish  with  a  covering 
of  crumbs.    Bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

BREADED    TOMATOES 

Slice  large,  solid  tomatoes,  dredge  them  on  both  sides 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dip  each  slice  in  beaten  ^g^,  and 
then  in  fine  bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  Arrange  them  in  a 
frying  basket,  and  plunge  them  in  hot,  deep  fat  for  one  or 
two  minutes  to  brown.  Drain,  and  garnish  with  sprays  of 
parsley,  or  use  as  a  garnish  to  other  vegetables. 

FRIED    TOMATOES 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when 
melted  lay  in  thickly  sliced  tomatoes  which  have  been 
rolled  in  ^gg  and  crumbs;  when  browned  on  one  side 
turn  them  with  a  pancake  turner  and  brown  the  other  side, 
seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt.     Remove  to  the  serving 


Vegetables  155 


dish  with  a  pancake  turner,  seasoning  the  first  side  cooked 
after  they  are  turned  onto  the  dish.  A  half  a  teaspoon  of 
onion  juice  may  be  added  to  the  butter  in  which  they  are 
cooking  if  desired.    Serve  plain  or  with  white  sauce. 


DEVILLED    TOMATOES 

Cut  in  half  and  broil  three  or  four  nice  solid  tomatoes, 
and  serve  them  with  a  sauce  made  as  follows :  Take  the 
yolks  of  4  hard-boiled  eggs  and  crush  them  with  a  fork, 
add  to  them  a  scant  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard,  1  heaping 
saltspoon  of  salt,  and  several  shakes  of  paprika,  or  a  dash 
of  cayenne  pepper ;  mix  these  dry  ingredients  well  together, 
and  then  add  to  them  5  tablespoons  of  melted  butter, 
2  tablespoons  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  and  heat  in  a 
double  boiler;  when  it  begins  to  thicken  remove  from 
the  fire  and  stir  in  1  well-beaten  egg.  Chop  the  whites  of 
the  boiled  eggs,  and  put  with  them  2  teaspoons  of  chopped 
parsley,  and  decorate  the  centre  of  each  broiled  tomato 
with  this  before  serving. 


CREAMED    TOMATOES 

Take  solid,  medium-sized  tomatoes,  and,  having  cut  a 
circular  piece  out  of  the  stem-end,  scoop  out  most  of  the 
inside,  and  fill  with  parboiled  celery  cut  in  half-inch 
lengths,  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  canned  peas,  and 
dampened  with  white  sauce ;  heap  1  teaspoon  of  peas  on 
the  top  of  each  tomato,  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes  or 
more,  and  serve  with  highly  seasoned  white  sauce  poured 
over  each. 


156  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


BAKED    TOMATOES   WITH    MUSHROOMS 

Wash  good  solid  tomatoes  and  carefully  cut  out  the 
inside;  dredge  with  pepper  and  salt  and  fill  the  tomato 
with  saute  mushrooms,  using  either  fresh  or  canned  ones, 
chopped  and  fried  in  butter.  Bake  for  about  twenty 
minutes,  or  until  heated  through  but  not  broken. 

TOMATOES   WITH    NUT   FORCE-MEAT 

Slice  the  stem-end  from  6  large,  solid  tomatoes,  scoop 
out  the  inside,  and  fill  with  a  force-meat  made  of  one  cup 
of  crumbs,  J  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1 
saltspoon  of  pepper,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  \  table- 
spoon of  grated  onion,  and  1  ^^^^.  Replace  the  tops  on 
the  tomatoes  and  bake  them  for  about  twenty  minutes, 
watching  that  the  skins  do  not  break,  as  they  will  do  in  a 
too  hot  oven. 

TOMATOES  STUFFED  WITH  EGG  AND  PEPPERS 

Cut  the  inside  from  solid,  large  tomatoes,  and  refill  with 
a  mixture  of  equal  parts  of  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs  and 
chopped  sweet  green  peppers  (or  use  pimentos)  well 
moistened  with  melted  butter  and  onion  juice,  and  seasoned 
with  salt.  Put  in  a  baking  dish,  cover,  and  let  bake  for 
twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

BAKED    TOMATOES   WITH    GREEN   PEPPERS 

Scoop  out  the  inside  from  solid  tomatoes,  and  refill  with 
the  tomato  meat  which  has  been  cut  out  of  the  centre  and 
chopped  with  sweet  green  peppers,  using  1  teaspoon  of 


Vegetables  1^7 

peppers  to  each  tomato,  and  1  teaspoon  of  cracker  crumbs 
or  boiled  rice;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  place  \ 
teaspoon  of  butter  in  each  tomato  before  laying  the  top  on ; 
then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty  minutes. 

TOMATOES    FILLED    WITH    EGG 

Select  very  large  solid  tomatoes,  and  with  a  small,  sharp 
knife  cut  a  round  piece  out  of  the  stem-end,  then  cut  out 
a  large  enough  space  from  the  inside  to  hold  a  small  ^g^^^ 
and  arrange  in  a  shallow  pan.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  add  \  teaspoon  of  grated  onion,  and  set  in  a  hot 
oven  for  five  or  six  minutes.  Remove,  and  break  into 
each  tomato  the  yolk  of  1  ^gg  and  as  much  of  the  white 
as  it  will  hold  without  running  over  the  edge.  Sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  replace 
in  the  oven,  letting  them  cook  slowly  fifteen  minutes  until 
the  ^gg  is  set.  Remove  to  individual  plates  for  serving, 
taking  care  to  not  break  the  tomato.  Garnish  with  cress 
or  parsley. 

Tomatoes  may  be  stuffed  in  a  great  variety  of  ways,  — 
with  fillings  of  fried  cucumber,  tomato,  and  chopped 
onions,  or  bread  dressing  with  sage,  etc. 

TOMATOES    STUFFED    WITH    SPINACH 

Cut  an  opening  in  the  top  of  large,  solid  tomatoes,  and 
scoop  out  some  of  the  inside  with  a  spoon,  fill  with  "Ger- 
man spinach,"  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  twenty 
minutes;  upon  removing  from  the  oven  cover  each  with 
a  slice  of  hard-boiled  egg,  or  use  the  white  rim  filled  with 
riced  yolks.  Serve  alone  or  as  a  garnish  for  another 
vegetable. 


158  Golden   Rule   Cook  -  Book 


TOMATOES    STUFFED   WITH    MACARONI 

Scoop  the  inside  from  6  large,  solid  tomatoes  and  use 
it  with  1  bay  leaf  and  some  melted  butter  to  make  a  tomato 
sauce.  Into  this  stir  \  cup  of  boiled  macaroni  (spaghetti 
or  rice  may  also  be  used) ,  and,  after  seasoning  well  with 
salt  and  pepper,  fill  the  tomatoes  with  the  macaroni,  put- 
ting 1  teaspoon  of  grated  cheese  on  the  top  of  each.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes  or  less,  and 
garnish  with  watercress  or  parsley. 

AMERICAN   RAREBIT 

Put  a  little  water  and  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a 
frying  pan,  and  when  melted  add  1  large  Spanish  onion  or 
3  ordinary  onions  chopped  fine,  and  let  simmer  slowly 
ten  minutes.  Strain  the  juice  from  a  can  of  tomatoes,  and 
put  the  tomatoes  in  a  double  boiler;  when  they  are 
heated  through  scrape  the  onions  into  the  tomatoes,  and 
let  them  all  cook  together  for  half  an  hour ;  season  highly 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  just  before  serving  add  2  or  3 
well-beaten  eggs,  and  let  stand  for  a  few  minutes  until 
somewhat  thickened;  serve  on  toast.  If  the  flavour  of 
onions  is  liked,  a  larger  quantity  of  chopped  onion  may 
be  used ;  and  to  increase  the  quantity,  3  or  4  more  eggs 
may  be  added  to  this  rule  without  other  changes.  For 
chafing-dish  prepare  in  advance  to  the  point  where  the 
eggs  are  added,  and  add  these  after  reheating  in  the 
chafing-dish. 

TOMATOES   AND    ONION 

Proceed  as  in  the  preceding  recipe  without  adding  the 
eggs. 


Vegetables  159 


TOMATOES    CASINO 

Select  large,  solid  tomatoes,  and  without  cutting  them 
let  them  boil  for  fifteen  minutes ;  then  slip  off  the  skins, 
halve  them,  and  lay  each  piece,  cut-side  down,  on  a  round 
of  toast  the  same  size  as  the  tomato.  Cover  the  top  with 
warm  Hollandaise,  Bernaise,  or  Maitre  d'hotel  sauce,  and 
in  the  centre  lay  a  slice  of  truffle ;  garnish  with  watercress. 


TOMATOES   INDIENNE 

Halve  large,  solid  tomatoes,  and  arrange  them  in  a  shal- 
low pan,  cut-side  up.  Dredge  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
spread  with  curry  powder  and  some  onion  juice.  Put  in 
the  oven  for  ten  minutes,  or  under  the  gas  burners  of  the 
oven  in  a  gas  stove.  Do  not  let  the  tomatoes  soften,  and 
serve  at  once  to  prevent  this.  Use  alone  or  as  a  garnish  to 
rice. 

TOMATOES   WITH   EGGS 

Strain  1  can  of  tomatoes  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan ; 
stir  well,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  1  tablespoon 
of  butter,  and,  after  they  have  cooked  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes,  stir  in  3  or  4  well-beaten  eggs  and  serve  on  toast 
after  two  or  three  minutes'  further  cooking. 


CURRIED   TOMATOES 

Cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  stem-end  of  large,  solid  toma- 
toes, and  scoop  out  some  of  the  inside.  Fill  with  boiled 
rice  to  which  is  added  the  tomato  removed  from  the  inside 
and  a  little  curry  powder  (J  teaspoon  to  1  cup  of  rice  is 


i6o  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 

a  moderate  amount).  Season  the  mixture  well  with  salt, 
replace  the  top,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes.  The  curry 
powder  can  be  omitted  from  the  filling  and  the  tomatoes 
served  with  curry  sauce  if  preferred. 

SAVOURY   TOMATOES 

Cut  in  half  rather  large,  solid  tomatoes,  allowing  2  halves 
for  each  person  to  be  served,  and  set  them,  cut-side  up, 
in  a  shallow  tin ;  press  capers  into  the  spaces,  then  dredge 
heavily  with  celery  salt,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
set  under  the  flame  of  a  gas  oven  until  the  tops  are  black- 
ened. The  flame  should  be  hot  so  that  this  may  happen 
as  quickly  as  possible  in  order  that  the  tomatoes  may  not 
become  softened  by  the  heat ;  to  this  end  it  is  also  necessary 
to  leave  the  door  of  the  broiling  compartment  open. 

TOMATOES    CREOLE 

Cut  in  half,  crosswise,  5  or  6  solid  tomatoes,  and  set 
them,  cut  halves  upwards,  in  a  buttered  pan.  Chop  1  or  2 
sweet  green  peppers,  mix  with  them  1  teaspoon  of  chopped 
onion,  and  sprinkle  this  over  the  tomatoes ;  place  a  small 
piece  of  butter  on  each  half,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
paprika.  Let  bake  about  twenty  minutes,  then  remove 
to  rounds  of  toast,  or  nests  of  boiled  rice,  and  pour  over 
them  white  sauce. 

TOMATO    LOAF 

Strain  the  juice  from  1  can  of  tomatoes  through  a  sieve 
fine  enough  to  stop  all  the  seeds,  and  put  in  an  enamelled 
saucepan  to  boil ;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 


Vegetables  1 6  i 

when  it  boils  pour  it  onto  enough  gelatine  dissolved  in 
water  to  stiffen  it.  The  amount  of  gelatine  cannot  be 
given,  as  the  various  vegetable  gelatines,  arrowroot,  etc., 
vary  in  thickening  power.  Instructions  as  to  the  proper 
amount  for  each  pint  of  liquid  will  come  with  every  pack- 
age. Set  the  jelly  aside  to  cool,  and  arrange  slices  of  hard- 
boiled  ^g^^  on  the  bottom  of  custard  cups  or  small  plain 
moulds,  and  encircle  these  with  slices  of  stuffed  olive, 
pickled  walnut,  or  truffles,  or  mushrooms.  When  the 
jelly  is  somewhat  cooled,  and  so  thick  enough  to  hold 
down  these  garnishings  when  poured  onto  them,  half 
fill  the  cups  with  it.  Serve  when  set  and  ice-cold,  turned 
out  on  lettuce  leaves. 


TOMATOES   AND    HOMINY 

Take  2  cups  of  cold  boiled  hominy  and  2  cups  of  boiled 
tomatoes,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  season  generously  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve 
in  a  deep  dish  when  thoroughly  heated  through,  or  put 
into  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  crumbs  on  the  top  (and 
a  little  grated  cheese  if  liked) ;  brown  before  serving. 


STEWED    TURNIPS 


Peel  and  wash  turnips  and  cut  them  in  eighths  length- 
wise, or  in  dice,  and  put  them  in  boiling  milk  and  water 
which  covers  them.  Let  them  cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour 
uncovered,  then  lift  them  out  and  place  on  a  hot  dish  at  the 
side  of  the  stove.  Make  a  sauce  with  \\  cups  of  the  stock 
in  which  they  cooked,  into  which  beat  the  yolk  of  1  ^gg 

11 


1 62  Golden  Rule  Cook-Book 


and  \  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice;  season  this  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  pour  over  the  turnips.  Instead  of  this,  ordi- 
nary white  sauce  may  be  made  of  the  turnip  stock. 

MASHED   TURNIPS 

Peel  and  quarter  2  good-sized  turnips,  cover  them  with 
boiling  water,  and  let  cook  until  tender,  which  should  be 
in  from  half  an  hour  to  three  quarters;  drain  them  in  a 
colander,  and  press  gently  with  a  wire  potato-masher  to 
remove  as  much  water  as  possible,  then  mash  them  and 
beat  them  well,  stirring  in  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  and  1  saltspoon  of  pepper. 

MASHED  TURNIPS  AND  POTATO 

Prepare  turnips  as  for  mashed  turnips,  and  mash  with 
them  an  equal  quantity  of  boiled  potatoes;  add  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  beat  up  very  light  before  serving. 

TURNIPS  AU  GRATIN 

Cut  boiled  turnips  in  thin  slices,  and  arrange  them  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish  in  layers  one  inch  deep;  sprinkle 
each  layer  with  melted  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  grated 
cheese.  Finish  with  cheese  on  the  top,  and  bake  for 
twenty  minutes. 

RAGOUT  OF  TURNIPS 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  onion  and  4  cups 
of  diced  turnips,  and  stir  until  they  begin  to  brown ;  season 


Vegetables  163 


with  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of  pepper,  1  teaspoon 
of  sugar,  and  add  slowly  1  cup  of  vegetable  broth  or  milk 
into  which  1  tablespoon  of  flour  has  been  made  smooth. 
Let  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour. 


TELTOWER   RUBCHEN 

Buy  the  imported  "riibchen,"  which  are  the  daintiest 
tiny  turnips,  and  heat  them  in  their  own  liquor ;  then  drain 
and  serve  with  Spanish  sauce. 


PARISIAN   TURNIPS 

Cut  turnips  into  small  rounds  with  a  Parisian  potato 
cutter,  and  boil  them  for  half  an  hour  or  until  tender,  the 
time  depending  largely  upon  the  age  of  the  turnips.  Drain, 
and  cover  with  highly  seasoned  white  sauce,  to  which  1 
tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley  has  been  added. 


I^INDNESS  to  animals  is 
not  mere  sentiment  but  a  req- 
uisite of  even  a  very  ordinary 
education;  nothing  in  arith- 
metic or  grammar  is  so  impor- 
tant for  a  child  to  learn  as 
humaneness. 
Journal  of  Education,  Boston. 


VEGETABLE  COMBINATIONS 


Pi 


CHOP   SUEY 


UT  1  cup  of  onions,  fried  until  brown,  1  cup  of  celery 
cut  in  two-inch  pieces  and  then  shredded  and  stewed  in 
vegetable  stock  for  half  an  hour,  1  cup  of  fried  mushrooms, 
and  2  cups  of  boiled  rice  in  a  saucepan  with  a  cup  of  thin 
brown  sauce.  Let  all  heat  together  for  ten  minutes,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

COLCANNON 

This  is  made  by  the  mixture  of  two  or  more  vegetables 
already  boiled.  Use  equal  parts  of  mashed  potato  and 
sprouts  (or  any  greens)  finely  minced,  and  grated  onion  if 
wanted,  and  add  some  mashed  carrots  or  turnips  or  both ; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  2  eggs  through  4  or  5 
cups  of  vegetables,  press  into  a  mould,  and  boil  or  steam 
for  half  an  hour.  Turn  out  to  serve,  and  serve  plain  or 
with  a  brown  sauce. 


MACEDOINE   OF  VEGETABLES 

Boil  1  small  cauliflower  and  set  it  aside  to  drain;  then 
boil  2  cups  of  diced  carrots,  drain  them  when  tender,  but 
reserve  the  stock.  Add  to  the  carrots  the  cauliflower 
carefully  separated  into  little  pieces,  2  cups  of  boiled  peas, 
or  1  can,  1  cup  of  cooked  or  canned  flageolets,  J  a  cup  of 


1 68  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


carrot  stock,  IJ  teaspoons  of  salt,  1  small  saltspoon  of 
pepper,  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Let  simmer  together 
until  heated,  and  then  add  1  chopped  onion,  2  bay  leaves, 
1  tablespoon  of  butter.  If  liked,  a  sauce  made  of  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  1  tablespoon  of  flour  thinned  with 
the  carrot  stock  and  highly  seasoned  can  be  strained  over 
the  vegetables  before  serving. 

CANNED  MACEDOINE  OF  VEGETABLES 

Delicious  combinations  of  peas,  shaped  carrots,  flageo- 
lets, etc.,  can  be  had  in  bottles.  Drain  them,  and  put  in  a 
saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  some  pepper  and 
salt.  When  hot  serve  or  add  \  cup  of  cream.  Serve  to 
garnish,  or  alone,  or  use  to  fill  peppers,  or  tomatoes,  or 
patties. 

VEGETABLE   CHOWDER 

Pare  and  slice  in  rather  thick  slices,  enough  potatoes  to 
make  4  cups,  and  prepare  the  same  amount  of  shredded 
cabbage,  and  sliced  onions.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  and  when  melted  add  the  onions,  and  cook 
them  for  ten  minutes.  Butter  a  large  casserole,  arrange 
over  the  bottom  a  layer  of  sliced  potato,  then  a  layer  of 
cabbage,  then  one  of  onions,  seasoning  each  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  sprinkling  with  chopped  hard-boiled  ^^^^ 
and  so  fill  the  dish.  Pour  2  cups  of  milk,  into  which  1 
tablespoon  of  flour  has  been  made  smooth,  over  the 
chowder,  set  the  dish  in  a  shallow  pan  of  water,  and  bake 
slowly  for  one  hour.  If  the  milk  cooks  away  add  a  little 
more  during  the  cooking.  The  same  dish  can  be  made 
in  a  kettle,  in  which  case  halve  the  potatoes  and  cook  for 
three  quarters  of  an  hour. 


Vegetable   Combinations  169 


VEGETABLE   PIE    (ST.   GEORGE'S   HOUSE) 

Boil  enough  carrots,  turnips,  and  large  white  haricot 
beans  to  make  a  \  cup  of  each  when  chopped  or  sliced 
after  cooling,  and  enough  potatoes  to  make  a  scant  cup 
when  sliced.  Slice  enough  Bermuda  onions  to  make  \ 
cup,  and  fry  in  butter  until  golden  brown;  then  mix  the 
onions  and  prepared  vegetables,  and  add  to  them  \  cup 
each  of  canned  peas,  green  beans,  and  tomatoes.  Season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  stir  in  1  teaspoon  of  chopped 
parsley,  dampen  with  the  water  in  which  the  haricot 
beans  cooked,  heap  into  a  deep  baking  dish,  cover  with  a 
good  crust,  and  bake  until  slightly  browned. 


VEGETABLE  HASH 

Chop  separately  5  medium-sized  potatoes,  2  sweet 
green  peppers  (carefully  seeded),  5  fresh  tomatoes,  1  cup 
of  boiled  beets  (|  a  can),  and  2  raw  onions. 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when 
melted  add  the  chopped  onions,  and  let  simmer  slowly  for 
five  minutes,  then  add  the  tomatoes  and  let  simmer  an- 
other five  minutes,  then  put  in  the  potatoes,  the  peppers, 
and  the  beets.  Dredge  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and, 
stirring  occasionally,  let  all  cook  slowly  until  the  juices  are 
nearly  absorbed ;  then  let  the  hash  brown  on  the  bottom, 
and  turn  out  with  the  brown  on  top.  Garnish  with  squares 
of  toast. 


VEGETABLE   STEW 

Put  4  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  large  saucepan,  and 
when  melted  add  to  it  \  cup  of  sliced  onions,  \  cup  of 


lyo  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 

diced  carrots,  1  cup  of  shredded  celery,  and  |  cup  of  turnips 
cut  in  oblong  pieces,  and  toss  them  in  the  butter  for  fifteen 
minutes ;  then  pour  over  them  6  cups  of  cold  vegetable 
broth  or  water,  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  bay  leaves,  6 
small  onions  halved,  4  carrots  cut  in  quarters,  6  small 
squares  of  turnip,  and  let  simmer  slowly  for  half  an  hour ; 
then  add  5  potatoes  cut  in  half,  and  let  cook  for  half  an 
hour  more,  and  add  more  vegetable  broth  to  keep  the 
vegetables  covered.  Make  dumplings,  and  drop  into  the 
boiling  stew,  cover  tightly,  and  cook  ten  minutes  more; 
season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  with  enough 
of  the  stock,  thickened  with  a  little  flour  and  butter,  to 
cover. 

VEGETABLE   CASSEROLE 

In  order  that  this  dish  should  taste  and  appear  at  its 
best,  it  should  be  cooked  and  served  in  an  Italian  casserole 
dish  from  eight  to  ten  inches  in  diameter.  Peel  8  medium- 
sized  onions,  and  take  the  layers  oil  until  a  centre  about 
three  quarters  of  an  inch  in  diameter  is  left;  toss  the 
centres  in  hot  butter  until  browned,  and  chop  the  outside. 
Cut  3  medium-sized  sweet  green  peppers  in  half,  length- 
wise, and  fill  each  half  liberally  with  a  mixture  of  bread 
crumbs,  chopped  tomato,  chopped  onion,  and  salt  and 
pepper.  Stuff  6  solid,  medium-sized  tomatoes  in  any  of 
the  ways  described  under  stuffed  tomatoes.  Put  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when  melted  add  to  it 
2  tablespoons  of  chopped  onions ;  fry  these  for  ten  minutes, 
then  stir  in  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  use  vegetable  stock 
or  milk,  2  cups  of  either,  to  make  a  sauce ;  add  1  bay  leaf, 
and  enough  soup-browning  to  make  a  rich  colour.  Put  the 
stuffed  peppers  in  a  casserole  dish  with  the  glazed  onion 


Vegetable   Combinations  171 

hearts  and  the  sauce,  cover,  and  let  cook  for  ten  minutes ; 
then  arrange  the  stuffed  tomatoes  in  the  casserole,  dis- 
tribute among  them  \  can  of  button  mushrooms,  halved, 
\  can  of  flageolets  or  peas,  and  leave  the  cover  oft"  the  dish, 
letting  it  cook  for  fifteen  minutes  very  slowly.  This  casse- 
role can  be  varied  in  many  ways,  using  different  filling  for 
the  peppers  and  tomatoes,  and  either  truflOies,  string  beans, 
or  fresh  mushrooms  in  the  sauce,  which  should  not  be  too 
thick. 

VEGETABLE   RAGOUT 

Prepare  for  boiling  what  will  make  3  cups  of  turnip 
when  cut  in  inch  squares,  IJ  cups  of  potatoes,  and  \\  cups 
of  carrots.  Put  the  carrots  into  slightly  salted  and  sweet- 
ened water,  let  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  the  turnips 
and  potato,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  more.  Put  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when  melted  add  1 
tablespoons  of  chopped  onion,  and  fry  until  slightly 
browned ;  then  add  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  stir  until  smooth, 
and  pour  slowly  into  this  2  cups  of  the  stock  in  which  the 
vegetables  cooked ;  then  add  2  teaspoons  of  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  J  teaspoon  of  pepper ;  and  the  diced  vegeta- 
bles ;  cover,  and  let  simmer  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  then 
add  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 


BORDEAUX   PIE 

Slice  enough  Spanish  onions  to  fill  a  cup  |  full,  and  fry 
them  in  butter  until  slightly  browned.  Boil  carrots  to 
equal  J  cup  when  diced,  potatoes  enough  to  fill  a  cup 
f  full,  and  peel  2  cups  of  mushrooms,  and  toss  them  in  a 
little  butter  in  a  frying  pan  over  a  moderate  fire  for  ten 


172  Golden   Rule   Cook -Book 


minutes ;  hard  boil  4  eggs,  and  make  1  cup  of  white  sauce. 
Cut  the  vegetables  in  small  pieces,  slice  the  eggs,  add  \ 
cup  of  canned  peas  (or  fresh  boiled  ones) ,  1  teaspoon  of 
chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  well,  put  in  a  little 
grated  nutmeg  and  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  and  mix  all 
carefully  with  the.  white  sauce.  Line  a  large  baking  dish 
(or  small  individual  ones)  with  thin  crust,  fill  with  the 
mixture,  cover  the  top  with  crust,  and  bake  until  slightly 
browned. 

NEW   ORLEANS   STEW 

Slice  3  onions,  and  fry  them  in  1  large  tablespoon  of 
butter  for  five  minutes ;  then  add  to  them  3  chopped  sweet 
green  peppers,  stir  well,  and  let  cook  together  another  five 
minutes ;  then  scrape  the  contents  of  the  frying  pan  into  a 
double  boiler,  add  the  corn  cut  from  3  ears  of  sweet  corn 
(or  J  can  of  corn),  and  3  sliced  tomatoes,  1  cup  of  water, 
1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  let  all  cook 
together  for  one  hour;   season  afresh  before  serving. 

INDIAN  CURRY 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  add  to 
it  when  melted  2  onions  chopped  fine,  and  let  cook  very 
slowly  for  fifteen  minutes.  Mix  1  tablespoon  of  curry 
powder,  1  tablespoon  of  sour  apple,  or  tamarind-chutney 
chopped  fine,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  enough  vegetable 
stock  to  make  a  paste.  When  the  onions  are  browned  add 
this  paste,  and  after  stirring  well  put  in  1  cup  of  boiled 
haricot  beans,  1  cup  of  halved  boiled  chestnuts,  and  1  can 
of  halved  button  mushrooms,  and  let  all  simmer  together 
for  ten  minutes.    Have  ready  some  stock  made  by  putting 


Vegetable   Combinations  173 

2  tablespoons  of  desiccated  cocoanut  into  a  bowl  and 
pouring  over  it  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  use  this  to 
dampen  the  cooking  vegetables ;  then  add  1  cup  of  vege- 
table broth,  and  let  cook  ten  minutes  more.  We  westerners 
are  fond  of  this  served  in  this  way  with  chutney,  but  in 
India  they  press  it  through  a  strainer  and  serve  it  as  a 
puree,  adding  to  it  2  well-beaten  eggs.  Encircle  with  rice 
in  serving. 

CURRY   OF  LENTILS 

Soak  2  or  3  cups  of  German  or  Egyptian  lentils  for  two  or 
three  hours ;  drain  them,  and  put  them  in  boiling  water, 
and  let  them  cook  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour  or  until 
tender  but  not  broken.  Salt  well  when  they  have  been 
cooking  a  short  time,  and  when  done  drain  them,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  and  heap  in  a  pyramid  on  a  round  flat  dish; 
garnish  with  3  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  half,  encircle  with 
boiled  rice,  and  pour  curry  sauce  over  the  lentils  only. 
Serve  extra  sauce  in  a  sauce-boat  and  Indian  chutney. 

CURRY   OF  SUCCOTASH 

Heat  1  can  of  Lima  beans  and  1  can  of  sweet  corn,  and 
when  hot  drain,  and  heap  on  a  flat  dish ;  cover  with  curry 
sauce,  and  serve  with  potato  croquettes  and  Indian 
chutney. 

CREOLE  CURRY 

Boil  1  cup  of  rice,  and  while  it  is  cooking  put  2  cups  of 
okra,  2  cups  of  tomato,  and  2  small  onions  cut  in  halves, 
and  1  teaspoon  of  butter  in  a  double  boiler,  and  when  hot 
add  1  cup  of  hot  water,  into  which  has  been  dissolved  1 


174  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 

heaping  teaspoon  of  curry  powder,  and  let  all  cook 
together  for  half  an  hour;  remove  the  onions,  add  the 
rice,  season  generously  with  salt,  and  serve  with  Indian 
chutney. 

VARIOUS  VEGETABLE  CURRIES 

Almost  any  vegetable  makes  a  good  curry,  —  flageolets, 
carrots  and  peas,  button  mushrooms,  etc.,  and  either 
boiled  rice  or  rice  croquettes  should  be  served.  A  garnish 
of  Spanish  pimentos  looks  well,  and  the  curry  sauce  should 
be  plentiful.  Hard-boiled  eggs  halved  are  always  nice 
with  curry,  and  Indian  chutney  should  be  served  with  it. 


Speaking  of  the  immor- 
tality of  animals  in  ^  Our  Ani- 
mal Friendsy  Charles  Wagner 
says,  'Can  that  which  comes 
from  Life  return  to  Chaos?  — 
Can  a  work  of  God  have  an 
end?'" 


NUT    DISHES 


ITALIAN   CHESTNUTS 

Chestnuts  can  be  cooked  either  by  roasting  or  by  boil- 
ing. If  roasted,  the  thin  brown  that  clings  to  the  nut  is 
removed  with  the  outer  shell ;  if  boiled,  the  inner  skin 
often  has  to  be  removed  with  some  trouble.  Roast  chest- 
nuts by  putting  them  in  a  hot  oven  for  eight  or  ten  min- 
utes, then  use  a  small,  sharp  knife  and  peel  them  from 
the  point  down. 

To  boil  chestnuts  put  them,  in  their  shells,  in  cold 
water  and  let  them  cook  for  five  or  six  minutes  after  the 
water  starts  boiling,  or  put  them  in  boiling  water  for  ten 
or  twelve  minutes.  Peel  carefully,  and  serve  after  roast- 
ing or  boiling  with  brown  sauce  or  mushroom  sauce, 
plain  or  in  cases. 

CHESTNUT   PUREE 

Roast  or  boil  6  cups  of  Italian  chestnuts,  remove  the 
shell  and  inner  skin  and  chop  them  fine  or  put  them 
through  a  vegetable  mill.  Put  them  in  a  double  boiler 
with  milk  enough  to  cover  them  and  let  them  cook  slowly 
for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  or  until  the  milk  is  all  ab- 
sorbed. Stir  frequently,  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1 
tablespoon  of  cream,  plenty  of  salt  and  a  little  pepper. 
The  puree  should  be  the  consistency  of  mashed  potato. 

12 


178  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


PEANUT   PUREE 

Shell  3  or  4  cups  of  peanuts,  remove  the  inner  skin,  and 
put  through  a  vegetable  mill.  Put  in  a  double  boiler  with 
milk  to  cover  them,  season  with  salt,  and  let  cook  gently 
half  an  hour,  or  until  tender.  Stir  frequently,  and  serve 
when  the  milk  is  absorbed  and  the  peanut  puree  is  the 
consistency  of  mashed  potato.  A  tablespoon  of  whipped 
cream  is  an  improvement  if  added  during  the  last  moments 


of  cooking. 


MICHAELMAS   LOAF 


Mix  1  cup  of  finely  ground  walnuts  (or  other  nuts), 
1  cup  of  finely  ground  roasted  peanuts,  1  teaspoon  of 
salt,  1  saltspoon  of  pepper,  2-|  cups  of  fine  bread  crumbs, 
1  tablespoon  of  mixed  sweet  herbs  (thyme,  sage,  and 
summer  savory) ,  and  1  large  onion  or  2  small  ones  chopped 
fine.  When  well  blended  bind  together  with  2  eggs  which 
have  been  slightly  beaten,  mould  with  the  hands  into  a 
loaf,  place  in  a  well  buttered  roasting  tin,  and  let  it  cook 
for  ten  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven;  then  add 
1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  cup  of  hot  water,  and  baste 
frequently  during  half  an  hour's  cooking.  The  loaf 
should  be  well  browned  and  carefully  removed  to  a  hot 

f)latter.     Make  a  brown  sauce  in  the  pan  in  which  the 
oaf  cooked,  and  serve  with  this  and  cold  apple  sauce. 


CHRISTMAS   LOAF 

Make  as  in  foregoing  recipe,  omitting  the  chopped 
onion  and  adding  another  half  tablespoon  (or  even  more) 
of  the  sweet  herbs.    Serve  with  cranberry  sauce. 


Nut   Dishes  179 


ROAST  NUT  AND  BARLEY  LOAF 

Make  a  brown  sauce  with  2  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  \ 
cup  of  browned  flour,  and  use  water  or  vegetable  stock  for 
thinning ;  chop  1  large  onion  fine,  and  fry  it  in  1  tablespoon 
of  oil  or  butter,  and  mix  the  onion  and  the  sauce  with  2 
cups  of  cold  boiled  pearl  barley,  1  cup  of  finely  ground 
roasted  peanuts,  1  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon 
of  salt,  and  1  saltspoon  of  pepper.  With  the  hands  mould 
into  a  loaf,  place  in  a  roasting  pan  which  has  been  well 
buttered,  and  let  cook  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes ;  then 
add  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  cup  of  hot  water,  and 
baste  every  five  minutes  for  half  an  hour.  Make  a  brown 
sauce  in  the  same  pan,  or  serve  with  Caper  sauce.  Garn- 
ish, if  brown  sauce  is  used,  with  English  savoury 
croquettes. 


STEAMED  NUT  AND  BARLEY  LOAF 

Make  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe,  but  pack  into  a  mould, 
set  this  in  boiling  water,  and  let  it  steam  for  an  hour  and 
a  half  or  two  hours.  Let  cool  in  the  mould,  and  turn  out 
to  serve  cold,  or  to  slice,  or  to  use  for  nut  hash. 

A  brick-shaped  mould  will  be  made  by  any  tinsmith 
to  order,  or  the  large  sizes  of  baking-powder  tins  can  be 
used  to  steam  loaf. 


ROASTED   NUT   LOAF  WITH   HOMINY 

Grind  2  cups  of  nuts,  —  pecans,  walnuts,  roasted 
peanuts,  etc.,  or  use  peanuts  only,  —  and  mix  with  them 
2  cups  of  cold  boiled  hominy,  \  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  3 


i8o  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped 
parsley,  1  tablespoon  of  grated  onion,  and  1  raw  egg. 
Form  into  1  large  roll,  or  several  smaller  ones,  put  in  a 
buttered  tin,  and  let  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  half  an 
hour;  baste  with  a  little  butter  and  water  a  few  times. 
Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon,  and  serve  with  brown 
sauce.  This  loaf  may  be  steamed  as  directed  for  barley 
loaf  and  used  hot,  cold,  or  in  hash. 


NUT   AND   FRUIT   LOAF 

Chop  mixed  nuts  enough  to  make  2  cups,  and  add  to 
them  6  bananas  chopped  fine  and  \  teaspoon  of  salt ;  mix 
well  together,  and  press  into  a  plain  mould.  Stand  the 
mould  in  a  steamer,  and  let  it  steam  for  three  hours.  Serve 
ice-cold,  sliced,  with  pickles  or  catsup. 


FOUNDATION   LOAF 

This  loaf  can  be  made  and  kept  in  readiness  for  use,  as 
it  w^ll  remain  fresh  for  several  days  if  it  is  left  in  the  covered 
mould  in  which  it  cooked  and  is  kept  in  a  cool  place. 
Put  2  cups  of  water  in  a  saucepan,  and  when  the  water 
boils  stir  into  it  1  cup  of  a  finely  ground  cereal,  preferably 
gluten  flour  or  meal,  or  Scotch  oatmeal,  and  stir  until 
thick ;  then  add  2  teaspoons  of  salt,  \  teaspoon  of  pepper, 
1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  1  cup  of  shelled  peanuts  which 
have  been  put  through  a  vegetable  grinder  twice.  Pack 
the  mixture  into  a  loaf-shaped  mould,  or  large  round  tin 
with  a  tight-fitting  lid,  almost  immerse  it  in  water,  and 
let  it  steam  for  two  hours.     Use  when  cold,  either  for 


Nut  Dishes  1 8 1 


nut  hash  or  croquettes,  or  with  an  equal  amount  of 
bread  crumbs  and  the  seasoning  to  make  Michaelmas 
or  Christmas  loaf. 

NUT  HASH 

Use  cold  steamed  nut  loaf  and  the  same  amount  of 
cold  boiled  potatoes.  Chop  the  potatoes  and  the  loaf 
separately,  and  add  to  them,  after  mixing,  J  as  much 
chopped  onion.  Turn  into  a  frying  pan  which  contains 
melted  butter  well  covering  the  bottom,  dredge  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  stir  frequently  with  a  knife  during  the 
first  ten  minutes'  slow  cooking ;  then  let  the  hash  brown 
on  the  bottom,  shaking  the  pan  vigorously  from  time  to 
time,  season  afresh,  and  turn  out  with  the  browned  por- 
tion on  top.  One  or  2  chopped  green  peppers  can  be 
added  to  the  hash,  if  the  flavour  is  liked. 


1  SAT  nothing  of  taking  life  —  of 
fattening  for  that  express  purpose  ; 
diseases  of  animals ;  had  blood  made; 
cruelty  superinduced;  —  it  will  be 
seen  to  be,  it  will  be  looked  back 
on,  as  a  form  of,  a  second  stage  of 
cannibalism.  — George  Meredith. 


RICE,  MACARONI,   Etc. 


W. 


BOILED    RICE 


ASH  1  cup  of  rice  by  letting  water  run  through  it  in 
a  sieve,  and  put  it  in  a  large  double  boiler,  the  top  of  which 
contains  plenty  of  water  at  boiling  point ;  add  1  teaspoon 
of  salt,  and  let  it  boil,  tightly  covered,  for  twenty-five 
minutes ;  pour  off  the  water  then  from  the  rice,  still  hold- 
ing the  cover  on,  and  again  place  it  over  the  boiler,  and 
let  the  rice  steam  for  another  twenty  minutes,  when  it  will 
be  found  that  each  grain  is  separate,  as  it  should  be..  Use 
a  fork  to  scrape  it  lightly  into  the  serving  dish. 

BAKED    RICE 

Let  J  cup  of  rice  soak  for  several  hours  in  2  cups  of 
warm  water.  Drain  and  put  in  a  baking  dish,  and  cover 
with  3  cups  of  milk  containing  §  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cover 
the  dish,  and  let  bake  slowly  for  an  hour  or  until  the  milk 
is  absorbed  and  the  separate  grains  of  rice  are  soft. 

INDIAN   RICE 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  into  a  double  boiler,  and 
when  melted  add  1  onion  chopped  fine,  the  juice  from  1 
can  of  tomatoes,  6  tablespoons  of  rice,  1  teaspoon  of  curry 
powder,  some  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  and  let  cook  to- 
gether for  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 


1 86  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


SPANISH   RICE 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  \  cup  of  rice,  and  stir  it  for  fifteen  minutes; 
then  add  1  chopped  onion,  1  chopped  tomato,  and  1  clove 
of  garlic,  cover  with  hot  water  or  vegetable  stock,  and 
season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper;  stir  well,  then  cover, 
and  let  the  rice  cook  slowly  for  forty  minutes. 


RICE-TOMATO    STEW 

Take  1  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice,  and  put  with  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan 1  teaspoon  of  butter,  3  or  4  sliced  tomatoes  (or  a  cup 
of  drained  canned  ones),  1  bay  leaf,  some  celery  salt, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  stir  well  together;  let  cook  slowly 
for  ten  minutes,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn ;  remove 
the  bay  leaf,  and  serve  on  thick  slices  of  toast. 


FRIED   RICE 

Press  newly  boiled  rice  into  an  inch-deep  pan,  cover 
with  a  weight,  and  let  it  become  cold.  Cut  into  two-inch 
squares,  and  fry  until  brown  in  hot  butter.  Serve  with 
tomato  or  curry  sauce. 


ESCALLOPED   RICE 

Butter  a  baking  dish,  and  sprinkle  the  bottom  with  a 
layer  of  boiled  rice,  and  cover  this  with  slices  of  hard-boiled 
eggs ;  dot  well  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
then  arrange  another  layer  of  rice  and  egg,  etc.,  alternat- 


Rice^   Macaroniy   Etc.  187 


ing  thus  until  the  dish  is  filled.  Cover  the  top  with  bread 
crumbs,  pour  over  all  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter, 
moisten  with  J  cup  of  milk,  and  bake  slowly  for  twenty 
minutes. 

RICE   AND    CHEESE 

Butter  a  baking  dish  well,  and  sprinkle  a  half-inch  layer 
of  boiled  rice  on  the  bottom ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  dot  well  with  butter ;  then  arrange  a  generous  layer 
of  grated  cheese,  and  sprinkle  this  with  English  mustard 
mixed  with  water,  then  add  another  layer  of  rice,  and  so 
continue  until  the  dish  is  well  filled,  having  the  rice  on  top. 
Pour  over  all  ^  cup  of  milk,  or  of  the  water  in  which  the 
rice  boiled,  and  let  cook  slowly  in  the  oven  for  twenty 
minutes. 

BAKED    RICE   AND    TOMATOES 

Butter  a  baking  dish  well,  and  put  a  layer  of  rice  in  the 
bottom  of  it,  and  over  this  arrange  slices  of  tomatoes ;  dot 
well  with  butter,  and  season  plentifully  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  celery  salt,  then  place  another  layer  of  rice,  and 
so  proceed  until  the  dish  is  well  filled.  Pour  J  cup  of 
canned  tomato  juice  over  the  rice,  sprinkle  the  top  with 
grated  cheese,  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 


ITALIAN   RICE 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  to  it  2  cups  of  boiled  rice  and  1  cup  of  tomato 
sauce  or  tomato  chutney ;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper, 
stir  until  heated  through,  and  serve  plentifully  sprinkled 
with  grated  cheese. 


1 8  8  Golden   Rule   Cook  -  Book 


RICE  AU   GRATIN 

Put  1  cup  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  when  hot  add  to  it 
1  tablespoon  of  flour  mixed  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
1  teaspoon  of  grated  onion  (or  a  few  drops  of  onion  extract) , 
and  \  teaspoon  of  salt ;  stir  into  this  %  cups  of  boiled  rice, 
let  cook  for  five  minutes,  then  put  in  a  buttered  baking 
dish,  with  \  cup  of  grated  cheese  on  top,  dredge  this  with 
paprika,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and  let  brown  in 
the  oven. 

RICE   OMELET 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  2  eggs  separately,  and  to 
the  yolks  add  |  of  a  cup  of  milk,  J  of  a  cup  of  cold  boiled 
rice,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  some  salt  and  pepper, 
and  finally  the  stiff  whites  of  the  eggs.  Put  in  a  buttered 
omelet  pan,  and  proceed  as  in  making  the  usual  omelet, 
cooking  over  a  slow  fire  and  shaking  the  pan  vigorously. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  a  little  paprika;  when  set,  turn 
together;  serve  with  a  sauce  if  desired,  and  garnish  with 
watercress. 

RICE   CZARINA 

Butter  a  baking  dish,  and  put  an  inch-deep  layer  of 
boiled  rice  in  the  bottom.  Over  this  sprinkle  finely 
chopped  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  dot  well  with  butter ;  then  place  another  layer 
of  rice  somewhat  thinner,  and  over  this  spread  finely 
chopped  green  peppers,  and  so  alternate  tomatoes,  peppers, 
and  rice  until  the  dish  is  well  filled,  having  a  layer  of  rice 
on  the  top.  Garnish  this  with  thin  slices  of  tomato  in  the 
centre,  and  encircle  the  edge  with  thinly  cut  rings  from 


RicBy   Macaroniy  Etc.  189 

the  peppers.  Pour  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  over 
all,  cover  lightly  with  a  tin  cover,  and  let  cook  in  a  slow 
oven  for  twenty  minutes ;  just  before  serving  add  2  more 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter. 


SAVOURY  RICE 

Butter  a  baking  dish,  and  half  fill  it  with  freshly  boiled 
rice,  sprinkle  this  with  salt,  pepper,  celery  salt,  and  a  few 
drops  of  Worcestershire  Sauce,  then  dot  with  mustard 
mixed  with  water,  and  pour  ^  cup  of  tomato  sauce  over 
the  surface  evenly.  Fill  the  dish  vdth  the  remaining  rice, 
and  season  again  with  the  same  ingredients,  adding  J  cup 
of  grated  cheese  (sage  cheese  preferably) ;  after  pouring 
on  the  tomato  sauce  cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  crumbs 
and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 


UNPOLISHED   RICE 

Unpolished  rice  is  used  extensively  in  rice-growing 
countries,  and  has  a  quite  distinct  taste.  When  it  can  be 
obtained  it  makes  a  pleasant  change,  and  can  be  served 
in  any  of  the  ways  described  for  rice. 


PEARL   BARLEY 


Pearl  barley  should  be  put  in  plenty  of  boiling  water 
and  cooked  for  an  hour,  then  drained,  and  prepared  in 
any  of  the  ways  described  for  the  serving  of  rice. 


IQO  Golden  Rule   Cook-Book 


AMERICAN   MACARONI 

Break  i  of  a  package  of  macaroni  into  two-inch  lengths, 
and  drop  it  into  rapidly  boiling  salted  water.  Let  it  boil 
for  twenty-five  minutes,  then  drain,  and  arrange  with 
alternate  layers  of  grated  cheese  in  a  buttered  baking  dish. 
Season  each  layer  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  when  the  dish 
is  filled  pour  over  all  1  cup  of  hot  milk  into  which  1  table- 
spoon of  flour  and  1  of  butter  have  been  made  smooth. 
Cover  the  top  with  crumbs  and  bake  twenty  minutes  or 
until  browned. 

Some  makers  of  macaroni  recommend  putting  the  mac- 
aroni in  cold  water  for  fifteen  minutes  after  boiling  it, 
and  then  reheating  it  with  seasoning,  etc. 


MACARONI   AU   GRATIN 

Break  J  of  a  package  of  macaroni  into  two-inch  lengths, 
and  put  it  into  2  quarts  of  rapidly  boiling  salted  water; 
let  boil  rapidly  for  twenty-five  minutes,  then  drain.  Butter 
a  baking  dish,  and  put  in  it  a  half-inch  layer  of  the  mac- 
aroni, sprinkle  generously  with  grated  cheese,  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper ;  then  put  another  layer  of  macaroni, 
and  proceed  as  before  until  the  dish  is  well  filled,  having 
macaroni  on  the  top.  Dot  evenly  with  butter,  and  bake 
about  fifteen  minutes  or  until  a  golden  brown. 


MACARONI   BIANCA 

Break  half  a  package  of  macaroni  into  two-inch  lengths, 
and  drop  it  slowly  into  %  quarts  of  rapidly  boiling  salted 
water;   in  fifteen  minutes  pour  off  all  but  1  cup  of  the 


Rice^   Macaroni,   Etc.  191 


water,  and  add  ^  cup  of  hot  milk,  stir  often  with  a  fork, 
and  let  boil  until  nearly  dry  or  until  tender,  which  will 
be  in  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  and  lift  the  macaroni  into  a 
strainer  the  instant  it  is  cooked.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  and 
put  in  it  a  layer  of  macaroni,  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper, 
then  sprinkle  lightly  with  a  layer  of  grated  cheese  (using 
1  cup  for  the  whole  dish) ;  dot  well  with  mixed  mustard, 
and  sprinkle  with  Worcestershire  sauce.  Fill  the  dish 
with  layers  in  this  way,  pour  -|  cup  of  milk  over  all,  and 
bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  or  until  brown,  in  a  quick 
oven. 

ITALIAN   MACARONI 

Break  |  of  a  pound  of  macaroni  into  four-inch  lengths, 
put  in  boiling  salted  water,  and  let  it  cook  for  twenty-five 
minutes.  Drain,  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon 
of  melted  butter  and  1^  cups  of  tomato  sauce ;  season  well 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  on  a  hot  flat  dish  with 
grated  cheese  plentifully  sprinkled  over  it. 

MACARONI    WITH    TOMATO    AND    ONION    SAUCE 

Boil  J  of  a  package  of  macaroni  in  rapidly  boiling  salted 
water  for  twenty-five  minutes,  and  whilst  it  is  cooking 
prepare  a  sauce  as  follows:  Put  a  large  tablespoon  of 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when  melted  stir  into  it  1  minced 
onion,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Let  cook  together  for  six  or  seven 
minutes,  then  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  1  cup  of  stewed 
and  strained  tomatoes,  and  stir  well  together  for  five 
minutes.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  put  a  layer  of  macaroni 
in  it,  then  a  layer  of  sauce,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  well 
filled,  and  set  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes  before  serving. 


192  Golden  Rule  Cook-Book 


BAKED   MACARONI   ITALIAN 

Boil  J  of  a  pound  of  macaroni  broken  in  two-inch 
lengths  for  twenty-five  minutes,  then  drain,  and  put  it  in 
a  buttered  baking  dish  with  1  cup  of  tomato  sauce ;  season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  a  half-inch  layer  of 
grated  cheese  on  the  top,  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes. 


MEXICAN  MACARONI 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  stir  into  it  J  a  can  of  tomatoes,  1  small  sweet  green 
pepper,  seeded  and  chopped  fine,  1  large  onion  chopped 
fine,  and  J  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cover,  and  let  cook  very 
slowly  for  about  forty  minutes.  Then  press  through  a 
coarse  sieve,  and  put  in  a  double  boiler  to  keep  hot.  Boil 
i  of  a  package  of  macaroni  for  twenty-five  minutes,  drain, 
and  pour  over  it  the  hot  sauce. 

PLAIN  MACARONI  AND   CHEESE 

Put  i  of  a  package  of  marcaroni  into  boiling  water, 
and  let  cook  twenty-five  minutes ;  drain,  add  1  cup  of  hot 
milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  paprika; 
let  boil  up  once,  add  J  cup  of  grated  cheese,  and  let  cook 
five  minutes  more  before  serving. 


MACARONI  RAREBIT 

Put  in  a  saucepan  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  when 
melted  add  1  cup  of  grated  cheese  and  stir  until  the  cheese 
is  melted,  and  then  add  J  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  J  a  teaspoon  of 


Rice^    Macaroni  J   Etc,  193 

mustard,  J  teaspoon  of  paprika,  and  1  tablespoon  of 
flour  dissolved  in  |  cup  of  cream  (or  milk) ,  to  which  also 
add  3  slightly  beaten  eggs ;  mix  all  together  thoroughly, 
put  in  1  cup  of  cooked  macaroni,  and  serve  with  toast. 


SPAGHETTI 

Spaghetti  can  be  cooked  in  any  of  the  ways  described 
for  macaroni,  but  real  Neapolitan  spaghetti  is  cooked 
as  follows :  —  Break  1  lb.  of  spaghetti  into  3  or  4  inch 
lengths,  and  put  in  a  large  saucepan  full  of  highly  salted 
boiling  water  and  let  boil  for  half  an  hour.  At  the  same 
time  put  1  cup  of  good  olive  oil  in  a  frying  pan  and  when 
hot  put  in  it  2  green  peppers,  seeded  and  chopped,  and 
let  simmer  until  they  begin  to  brown,  then  add  4  to  6 
cloves  of  garlic  cut  fine,  and  4  large  tomatoes,  peeled, 
quartered,  and  thinly  sliced.  Let  cook  for  about  half  an 
hour  or  until  the  oil  is  all  absorbed,  and  stir  often. 
When  cooked  to  the  consistency  of  a  thick  sauce,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  paprika;  drain  the  spaghetti  thoroughly, 
mix  the  sauce  through  it  and  serve  on  a  large  platter, 
sprinkling  with  freshly  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 


NOODLES 

To  make  noodles  add  \  cup  of  sifted  flour  containing 
i  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt  to  1  large  egg  which  has  been 
slightly  beaten.  Mix  well  with  a  fork,  and  when  stiff 
enough  work  with  the  fingers  until  the  dough  becomes 
very  smooth  and  about  the  consistency  of  putty,  and  then 
wrap  in  a  cloth  and  lay  aside  for  half  an  hour.  Sprinkle  a 
bread-board  well  with  flour,  and  roll  the  dough  out  upon 
this  five  or  six  times,  rolling  it  thinner  each  time ;  at  the 

13 


194  Golden   Rule   Cook- Book 

last  roll  it  as  thin  as  possible  without  breaking,  then  roll 
it  lightly  together  like  a  jelly-cake  roll,  and  with  a  very 
sharp  knife,  beginning  at  one  end,  cut  it  into  slices  about 
I  of  an  inch  wide  if  to  be  used  for  soup,  and  f  of  an  inch 
wide  if  to  be  used  with  a  sauce.  With  the  fingers  shake 
these  ribbons  until  they  are  separated,  and  let  them  dry 
for  about  half  an  hour. 

Cut  about  \  of  the  noodles  very  fine,  and  when  dried, 
drop  these  in  hot  oil  and  fry  until  crisp  and  brown ;  serve 
these  sprinkled  over  the  boiled  noodles. 

To  boil  noodles,  drop  them  in  rapidly  boiling  salted 
water,  cover  them,  and  let  them  boil  for  twenty  minutes, 
and  then  drain  thoroughly. 

Boiled  noodles  are  delicious  served  with  any  brown 
sauce  or  tomato  sauce,  and  can  be  used  as  directed  for 
macaroni  or  spaghetti. 

Very  good  noodles  can  be  bought  already  made. 

GERMAN   NOODLES 

Put  2  cups  of  dried  noodles  into  boiling  salted  water, 
let  them  cook  rapidly  for  twenty  minutes,  drain,  and  put  in 
a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  cup  of  brown 
sauce,  to  which  has  been  added  1  tablespoon  of  reduced 
vinegar  and  a  few  capers  if  liked.  Serve  when  thoroughly 
heated  through,  and  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper  when  in 
the  dish. 

ITALIAN   NOODLES 

Put  2  cups  of  dried  noodles  into  boiling  salted  water, 
let  cook  twenty  minutes,  drain,  and  put  in  a  saucepan 
with  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  cup  of  tomato  sauce  or 
chutney.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  on  a 
hot  dish,  with  the  top  well  sprinkled  with  grated  cheese. 


TvHERE  man  was  all  too  marred  with  sin 
The  Ass,  the  Ox  were  bidden  in. 

Where  Angels  were  unfit  to  come 
These  humble  entered  holydom. 

There  in  the  stable  with  the  beast 

The  Christmas  child  hath  spread  His  feast. 

These  His  adorers  were  before 

The  Kings  and  Shepherds  thronged  the  door. 

And  where  no  Angels  knelt  there  kneeled 
The  innocent  creatures  of  the  field. 

Katherine  Tynan  Hinkson. 


CROQUETTES 


W. 


BEAN   CROQUETTES 


ASH  2  cups  of  dried  beans,  then  soak  them  in  water 
for  twelve  hours  or  more,  and  cook  in  the  same  water 
about  an  hour  or  until  tender ;  strain  off  the  water,  press 
through  a  sieve,  and  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of 
pepper,  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Stir  well  together,  shape 
into  croquettes,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  vegetable  fat.  Serve  with  tomato  or  horseradish 
sauce. 

CHEESE   CROQUETTES 

Beat  the  white  of  1  egg  very  stiff,  and  stir  into  it  1  cup 
of  fine  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  of  grated  cheese,  ^  teaspoon  of 
salt,  and  1  saltspoon  of  paprika.  Shape  into  balls  or 
croquette  forms,  then  roll  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  egg  and 
crumbs,  put  in  a  frying  basket,  and  fry  in  boiling  vegetable 
fat  until  a  golden  brown.  Lay  on  brown  paper  in  the  oven 
for  three  minutes,  then  arrange  in  a  heap  on  a  paper 
doily,  dust  with  grated  cheese,  and  garnish  with  water- 
cress or  parsley. 

SWISS   CHEESE   CROQUETTES 

Melt  3  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  a  few  drops  of  onion 
juice,  I  cup  of  flour,  ^  cup  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
1  cup  of  grated  American  cheese,  and  J  cup  of  Swiss  cheese 


198  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 

cut  into  small  pieces.  Let  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  the 
cheese  is  melted,  then  season  with  salt  and  cayenne;  let 
cool,  then  shape  into  croquettes,  roll  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat. 

CHESTNUT   CROQUETTES 

Peel,  blanch,  and  chop  fine  enough  Italian  chestnuts  to 
make  2  cups,  and  boil  them  in  water  or  milk  to  cover  them 
for  three  quarters  of  an  hour  or  until  they  are  tender  and 
the  milk  absorbed ;  let  cool  somewhat,  then  add  1  cup  of 
bread  crumbs,  and  1  beaten  egg,  and  ^  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Shape  into  croquettes,  roll  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat.    Serve  with  mushroom  sauce  or  as  a  garnish. 


EGG  CROQUETTES 

Hard  boil  10  or  12  eggs,  add  to  them  1  tablespoon  of 
chopped  parsley,  chop  very  fine,  and  season  highly ;  then 
moisten  with  milk  or  cream.  Mould  into  shape,  roll  in  egg 
and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Serve  as  a  garnish  to  rice 
or  tomatoes,  or  as  a  separate  dish  alone,  or  with  curry 
sauce,  horseradish  sauce,  tomato  sauce,  or  devilled  sauce. 


FARINA  CROQUETTES 

Put  2  cups  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  when  hot  add 
1  cup  of  farina  and  some  salt.  Cook  until  well  thickened, 
and  then  whip  vigorously  into  it  1  beaten  egg.  Let  cool, 
mould  into  croquettes,  dip  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 
Serve  with  savoury  sauce  or  with  jelly  melted  to  the 
consistency  of  cream. 


Croquettes  199 


HOMINY   CROQUETTES 

Put  1  pint  of  cooked  hominy  into  a  saucepan,  add  % 
tablespoons  of  cream  or  milk,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until 
hot,  then  remove  from  the  fire  and  season  with  salt;  add 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs  lightly  beaten,  shape  into  croquettes, 
roll  in  crumbs,  and  fry  until  nicely  browned.  Serve  with 
some  savoury  sauce  or  as  a  garnish  to  scrambled  or  fried 
eggs. 

LENTIL   CROQUETTES 

Put  1  cup  of  well-washed  lentils  into  3  cups  of  water  or 
vegetable  broth  when  at  boiling  point,  and  let  them  cook 
slowly  for  an  hour  or  until  tender,  strain  them,  and  mash 
them  in  water,  and  let  them  cool. 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  finely  chopped  onion,  and  let  cook  for  ten 
minutes;  add  this  to  the  lentils,  with  2  slices  of  bread 
which  have  been  well  soaked  in  milk,  2  beaten  eggs,  and 
enough  fine  bread  crumbs  to  make  the  mixture  thick 
enough  to  form  into  croquettes.  Season  highly  with  salt 
and  pepper,  shape  into  form,  roll  in  ^gg,  and  then  in 
crumbs,  put  in  a  frying  basket,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Serve  with  horseradish  or  onion  sauce. 

Lentil  croquettes  may  also  be  served  with  caper  sauce, 
and  each  croquette  garnished  with  a  slice  of  seeded  lemon. 


MACARONI   CROQUETTES 

Have  ready  a  kettle  of  salted  boiling  water,  then  shake 
into  it  \  cup  of  macaroni,  and  let  boil  briskly  for  half  an 
hour ;  then  drain,  and  cut  into  small  pieces.     While  the 


2  00  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 


macaroni  is  cooking,  make  a  sauce  of  1  cup  of  hot  milk  to 
which  is  added  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  2  tablespoons 
of  flour  rubbed  together,  to  which  add,  when  thickened, 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  salt- 
spoon  of  pepper,  and  the  chopped  macaroni  (the  sauce 
must  not  cook  after  the  eggs  are  added).  Turn  out  to 
cool,  and  when  cold  form  into  pyramid-shaped  croquettes, 
roll  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve  with 
tomato  sauce  and  a  little  sprinkling  of  grated  cheese. 

ITALIAN   CROQUETTES 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  finely  chopped  onion,  let  cook  slowly  for  five 
minutes,  then  add  2  cups  of  boiled  macaroni,  1  cup  of 
milk,  cover,  and  stirring  frequently  let  simmer  slowly  for 
half  an  hour  or  until  the  milk  is  absorbed;  add  1  cup  of 
drained  canned  tomatoes,  or  2  or  3  chopped  fresh  ones, 
and  1  tablespoon  of  grated  cheese,  1  teaspoon  of  mixed 
mustard,  1  tablespoon  of  highly  flavoured  catsup,  salt 
and  pepper.  Cook  for  ten  minutes  more,  then  add  J  cup 
of  bread  crumbs  and  2  teaspoons  of  chopped  parsley. 
Turn  into  a  bowl,  and  when  somewhat  cooled  add  1 
beaten  ^gg  and  stir  it  well  through  the  mixture.  When 
cool  and  firm  form  into  shapes,  brush  with  egg,  roll  in 
crumbs,  and  fry  a  golden  brown  in  deep  fat.  Serve  plain 
or  with  tomato  or  curry  sauce. 

TOMATO   CROQUETTES 

Take  f  of  a  cup  of  stewed  tomatoes  without  any  juice, 
put  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  stir  into  them  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  1  cup  of  mashed  potatoes,  J  cup  of  grated 


Croquettes  201 


bread  crumbs,  and  some  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  well  to- 
gether, and  then  add  1  lightly  beaten  egg.  Remove  from 
the  fire,  turn  into  a  deep  plate,  and  when  cold  form  into 
croquettes ;  dip  each  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  fry  until 
brown,  and  serve  with  a  savoury  sauce. 

DRIED    PEA   CROQUETTES 

Put  1  cup  of  dried  peas  in  cold  water  or  broth,  let  cook 
for  IJ  hours  or  until  tender,  then  strain  and  mash.  Add 
to  them  1  finely  minced  onion  which  has  been  fried  ten 
minutes  in  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt,  pepper,  2  table- 
spoons of  flour,  2  eggs,  and  bread  crumbs  to  make  stiff 
enough  to  shape  into  croquettes  or  flat  cakes.  Roll  in 
crumbs,  and  fry  golden  brown  in  deep  fat.  Serve  with 
onion  or  tomato  or  mint  sauce. 


NUT  CROQUETTES  WITH  POTATO 

Chop  or  grind  2  cups  of  mixed  nuts,  and  mix  with  them 
2  cups  of  mashed  potatoes,  1  teaspoon  of  grated  onion, 
I  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  dash  of  nutmeg,  and  2  yolks  of  raw 
eggs.  Shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg,  and  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  hot,  deep  vegetable  fat. 

NUT   CROQUETTES   WITH   SALSIFY 

Use  \  cup  each  of  ground  pecans  and  walnuts,  and  with 
them  mix  2  cups  of  boiled  mashed  salsify,  1  teaspoon  of 
salt,  1  tablespoon  of  grated  onion,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped 
parsley,  2  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs,  form  into  cro- 
quettes, roll  in  ^g^  and  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Serve  with  tomato  chutney. 


202  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


NUT  CROQUETTES  WITH  COCOANUT 

Grind  1  cup  of  any  sort  of  nuts,  and  add  to  them  2  cups 
of  bread  crumbs,  ^  cup  of  grated  cocoanut,  4  tablespoons 
of  peanut  butter,  ^  teaspoon  of  celery  seed,  1  teaspoon  of 
salt,  and  1  egg,  well  beaten.  Mix  well,  and  form  into 
croquettes  or  balls,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep 
vegetable  fat. 

Nut  croquettes  can  be  made  of  the  mixtures  given  for 
nut  loaf,  rolled  in  egg  and  crumbs  and  fried. 

POTATO   CROQUETTES 

Take  2  cups  of  mashed  potatoes  and  stir  into  them  2 
lightly  beaten  eggs,  J  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  little  paprika, 
and  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  chives  or  parsley ;  form  into 
croquettes  or  rolls,  roll  in  egg  and  fine  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES  WITH  CHEESE 

To  2  cups  of  cold  mashed  potatoes  add  the  beaten  yolk 
of  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  of  grated  cheese,  1  tablespoon  of 
milk  or  cream,  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  extract;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  form  into  shapes  and  fry  in  deep 
fat. 

SAVOURY  POTATO  CROQUETTES 

To  2  cups  of  cold  mashed  potatoes  add  1  beaten  egg, 
1  chopped  onion,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1 
tablespoon  of  mixed  sweet  herbs,  and  1  tablespoon  of 
cream.  Shape,  roll  in  egg  and  fine  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat. 


Croquettes  203 


MASHED  POTATO  CROQUETTES  WITH  PEAS 

To  2  cups  of  cold  mashed  potatoes  add  1  ^g^^,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  form  into  flat,  small  cakes ;  in  the  centre  of 
each  put  1  teaspoon  of  canned  peas,  then  lap  the  potato 
mixture  over  these,  and  form  into  balls.  Dip  in  ^gg  and 
crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 


CREOLE  POTATO  CROQUETTES 

To  %  cups  of  mashed  potatoes  add  1  beaten  ^gg,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  2  tablespoons  of  chopped  green  peppers  (or 
chopped  red  pimentos)  which  have  been  fried  in  butter  for 
ten  minutes;  shape,  roll  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat. 

SWEET   POTATO   CROQUETTES 

To  2  cups  of  mashed  sweet  potato  add  1  beaten  ^gg, 
pepper  and  salt;  shape  and  roll  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  deep  fat. 


SWEETENED    RICE   CROQUETTES 

Soak  1  cup  of  rice  three  hours  in  warm  water,  then  drain 
and  put  into  a  double  boiler  with  1  pint  of  boiling  milk,  and 
let  cook  for  half  an  hour ;  then  add  1  tablespoon  of  sugar, 
1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  and  \  teaspoon  of  salt,  and 
let  simmer  ten  minutes  more.  Let  cool  somewhat,  and 
then  stir  in  slowly  3  e2;gs,  w^hich  have  been  beaten  to  a 
froth,  and  stir  until  it  tnickens;  then  add  the  grated  peel 
of  1  lemon,  and  turn  out  upon  a  dish  to  cool.    When  cold 


2  04  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 

and  quite  stiff  form  into  balls  or  oval  croquettes,  dip  in 
ven'  fine  cracker  crumbs,  and  iiy  in  deep  fat.  Serve  alone 
with  sauce  or  as  a  garnish. 

CAROLINA  CROQUETTES 

Boil  eggs  ten  minutes,  remove  the  shells,  press  the  yolks 
through  a  sieve  or  potato-ricer,  chop  the  whites  fine,  and 
mix  ^vith  the  same  amount  of  boiled  rice ;  dampen  with  a 
little  melted  butter,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  form  into 
balls,  roll  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  WTien  a 
golden  brown  drain  and  serve  with  some  savoury  hot  sauce, 
or  as  a  garnish  to  curry. 

PLAIN   RICE   CROQUETTES 

!Mix  together  2  cups  of  cold  boiled  rice,  J  teaspoon  of 
salt,  and  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  1  tablespoon  of 
flour,  and  1  beaten  egg.  Form  into  balls,  roll  in  flour,  and 
fry  in  deep  fat.    Serve  while  crisp. 

PINK   RICE   CROQUETTES 

Make  croquettes  as  above,  but  omit  the  sugar  and  add 
I  teaspoon  of  paprika  and  2  tablespoons  of  tomato  catsup 
to  the  rice  before  frj'ing. 

CURRIED    RICE   CROQUETTES 

Put  I  of  a  cup  of  milk  in  a  saucepan  with  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg  and  let  it  boil ;  then  stir  into  it  1  cup  of  rice  that 
has  boiled  twenty  minutes  in  salted  water.  Add  1  small 
teaspoon  of  curry  powder,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  and 


Croquettes  205 

salt  to  taste.  When  the  milk  boils  remove  from  the  fire 
and  add  a  beaten  egg  to  it,  stirring  vigorously.  Let  cool, 
shape  into  croquettes,  and  fry-  in  hot  fat.  Serve  apple 
sauce  or  onion  sauce  with  these  croquettes. 

ENGLISH  SAVOURY  CROQUETTES 

To  each  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs  use  1  tablespoon  of 
mixed  sweet  herbs  and  1  teaspoon  of  minced  onions  and 
bind  all  together  with  1  ^^g,  slightly  beaten.  Season  with 
\  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  scant  saltspoon  of  pepper,  \  teaspoon 
of  celery  salt,  form  into  balls,  roll  in  ^gg^  and  then  in 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat  until  golden  brown.  Serve 
with  a  brown  sauce  or  as  a  garnish  to  nut  loaf. 

MIXED  VEGETABLE  CROQUETTES 

Boil  separately  ten  carrots  and  3  turnips  and  5  potatoes 
and  chop  fine;  then  mash,  and  add  to  them  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  and  3  tablespoons  of  hot  milk.  Put  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  melted  cook  slowly 
in  it  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  beginning  to  brown,  1  large 
onion  chopped  fine.  Add  this  to  the  mashed  vegetables, 
also  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  TSTien  cool  form  them  into  croquettes 
or  flat  cakes,  and  dip  in  egg,  and  then  in  fine  crumbs,  and 
fr}'.  If  croquettes  are  made  fry  in  deep,  hot  fat ;  if  cakes 
are  made  they  can  be  fried  in  a  fn'ing  pan  like  pancakes, 
and  browned  on  one  side,  then  on  the  other.  Serve  plain, 
or  as  a  garnish  to  other  vegetables,  or  with  Spanish  sauce. 

Any  of  the  mixtures  for  croquettes  can  be  moulded  into 
flat  cakes  and  fried  until  browned  in  butter  on  a  griddle 
or  in  a  shallow  frying  pan. 


X  AKE  not  away  the  life  you  cannot  give. 
For  all  things  have  an  equal  right  to  live. 


Dryden. 


TIMBALES  AND   PATTIES 


I 


EGG  TIMBALES 


NTO  1  cup  of  milk  rub  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour 
until  smoothed,  add  1  tablespoon  (measured  before  melt- 
ing) of  butter,  the  lightly  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  J  teaspoon* 
of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of  pepper,  and  the  same  amount  of 
celery  salt.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  very  stiff, 
and  stir  these  into  the  other  ingredients  with  a  fork.  Turn 
into  buttered  timbale  moulds,  and  set  these  in  a  pan  con- 
taining hot  water  which  almost  reaches  the  top  of  the 
moulds.  Let  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes  or  until  well  set.  Turn  out  on  a  hot,  flat 
dish  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce  or  bread  sauce. 


SAVOURY   EGG   TIMBALES 

Make  the  foregoing  recipe,  but  add  1  tablespoon  of 
chopped  onion  and  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  or 
substitute  minced  shallots,  chives,  or  onion  tops. 


EGG-TOMATO    TIMBALES 

Make  plain  egg  timbales,  but  instead  of  using  milk 
use  1  cup  of  tomato  juice  from  canned  tomatoes.  Add  1 
tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  or  chives  if  desired. 

14 


2  lO 


Golden  Rule   Cook  -  Book 


PEA   TIMBALES 

Take  IJ  cups  of  boiled  peas,  put  them  through  a  ricer, 
or  mash  to  a  pulp,  and  when  cooled  add  to  this  2  lightly 
beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  mint,  1  teaspoon  of 
grated  onion  (or  chopped  chives) ,  2  tablespoons  of  melted 
butter,  J  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  1  saltspoon  of  pepper.  Fill 
timbale  moulds,  set  in  a  pan  containing  some  hot  water, 
and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes 
or  until  well  set.    Turn  out  and  serve  with  sauce. 


CORN   TIMBALES 

Take  1  cup  of  canned  corn  and  add  to  it  4  eggs  slightly 
beaten,  \  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little  paprika,  J  teaspoon  of 
onion  juice,  ^  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  \\  cups  of  milk. 
Pour  into  buttered  timbale  moulds,  or  a  large  mould,  and 
set  in  hot  water,  and  bake  in  the  oven  about  twenty  minutes 
or  until  firm.  Turn  out  and  garnish  with  slices  of  broiled 
tomatoes. 


POTATO   AND    CHEESE  TIMBALES 

Take  6  or  7  good-sized  potatoes,  boil  and  mash  them, 
and  beat  into  them  4  tablespoons  of  butter  and  2  eggs; 
then  add  1  cup  of  grated  cheese,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and 
some  paprika,  press  into  small  moulds  or  cups,  and  let 
cook  as  directed  above  for  about  twenty  minutes.  Turn 
from  the  moulds,  and  serve  with  a  sauce  of  melted  butter 
to  which  is  added  a  little  grated  cheese,  paprika,  and 
chopped  parsley. 


Timbales  and  Patties  211 


POTATO   TIMBALES 

Beat  3  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  together),  add  to  them  J 
of  a  cup  of  cream,  then  2  cups  of  mashed  potatoes,  1  tea- 
spoon of  grated  onion,  a  little  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
and  some  nutmeg;  beat  together  until  perfectly  smooth, 
and  then  press  into  timbale  moulds,  the  bottoms  of  which 
are  covered  with  buttered  paper.  Stand  these  in  a  shallow 
pan  containing  boiling  water  in  the  oven,  and  let  cook 
for  about  twenty  minutes.  Then  loosen  the  sides  with  a 
thin  knife,  and  turn  out  carefully  onto  a  heated  flat  dish. 
Garnish  with  peas  or  macedoine  vegetables,  or  use  as  a 
garnish. 

RICE   TIMBALES 

To  1  cup  of  boiled  rice  add  1  chopped  hard-boiled  ^gg^ 
1  tablespoon  of  tomato  catsup,  \  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  salt- 
spoon  of  pepper,  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  and  St 
well-beaten  eggs.  Fill  well-buttered  timbale  moulds  with 
this  mixture,  set  them  in  a  pan  containing  warm  water, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  twenty  minutes,  or  until  well 
set. 

Timbale  cases,  pastry  cases,  ramekins,  or  patties  may 
be  filled  with  any  of  the  following  recipes  and  served  as  a 
separate  course  at  luncheon  or  dinner. 


ARTICHOKE   PATTIES 

Boil  Jerusalem  artichokes  as  directed,  cut  in  half-inch 
cubes,  cover  with  a  highly  seasoned  white  sauce,  and  use 
to  fill  patties  or  cases. 


2  12 


Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


ASPARAGUS   PATTIES 

Use  only  the  tender  ends  of  white  or  green  canned 
asparagus,  heat  in  white  sauce,  and  use  to  fill  cases  or 
patties. 

CELERY   PATTIES 

Use  celery  prepared  as  in  creamed  celery,  only  cut 
the  stalks  into  inch-long  pieces.  Fill  heated  pastry  cups 
or  patties  with  the  mixture. 


CHESTNUTS   IN   CASES 

Peel  2  cups  of  Italian  chestnuts,  and  blanch  them  by 
pouring  boiling  water  on  them  and  letting  them  stay  in  it 
until  the  skins  remove  easily ;  then  cut  them  in  quarters, 
put  them  in  boiling  water,  and  boil  them  half  an  hour  or 
until  soft.  While  they  are  finishing  cooking  put  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  let  it  cook  slowly  until 
a  rich  dark  brown  then  add  to  it  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
and  stir  until  as  smooth  as  it  will  come,  then  add  1^  cups 
of  milk  and  1  teaspoon  of  caramel  or  soup-browning,  and 
season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  chestnuts  in 
the  sauce,  and  fill  pastry  cases  with  the  mixture. 


PATTIES  OF  FRESH  GREEN  PEAS 

Use  fresh  green  peas  boiled  as  directed,  or  use  canned 
French  peas ;  reheat  in  white  sauce,  and  use  to  fill  patties 
or  timbale  cases.  A  little  finely  chopped  mint  can  be 
added  to  the  sauce  if  liked. 


Timbales  and  Patties  213 


EGG  PATTIES 

Hard  boil  the  eggs  required,  chop  fine  when  cold,  and 
reheat  in  parsley  sauce,  and  use  to  fill  heated  cases  or 
patties,  or  use  eggs  Newburg  for  filling. 


MACEDOINE   PATTIES 

Use  imported  macedoine  of  vegetables,  heat  in  a  double 
boiler  with  white  sauce,  and  use  as  patty  filling  in  heated 
cases. 

MUSHROOM   PATTIES 

Cut  fresh  mushrooms  in  quarters,  toss  them  in  melted 
butter  for  five  minutes,  then  cover  them  with  white  or 
brown  sauce,  and  serve  in  heated  cases  or  patties.  Any 
of  the  recipes  given  for  mushrooms  can  be  used  to 
fill  patty  cases,  mushrooms  Newburg  being  especially 
suitable. 

CANNED   MUSHROOM   PATTIES 

Toss  the  mushroom  buttons  in  hot  butter  for  five 
minutes,  cover  them  with  white  sauce,  and  use  to  fill  heated 
patties. 


,/x5  /  was  hurrying  away  from 
the  slaughter-house,  three  beautiful 
lambs  were  led  in  by  a  man,  with  a 
long,  shining  knife.  Filled  with 
horror  and  indignation,  I  said: 
*How  can  you  be  so  cruel  as  to  put 
to  death  those  little,  innocent  lambs?' 
*PFhy,  madam,'  said  the  man,  ^  you 
would  nt  eat  them  alive,  would 
you  r 


SAUCES 


CARAMEL   FOR   COLOURING 

Jr  UT  J  cup  of  powdered  sugar  in  a  small  saucepan  over 
a  very  low  fire,  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  melted, 
and  continue  to  stir  until  it  is  a  rich  brown;  add  2 
cups  of  warm  water,  and  let  it  simmer  for  fifteen  or  twenty- 
minutes,  then  skim  and  strain,  and  bottle  for  use  in  giving 
a  rich  colour  to  soups  and  sauces. 

Ready-made  vegetable  extracts  of  good  dark  colour  can 
be  bought,  and  are  one  of  the  few  things  which  seem  better 
than  the  home-made  product. 


REDUCED   VINEGAR 

This  adds  a  delicious  flavour  to  many  sauces,  vegetables, 
and  soups,  and  is  made  by  putting  vinegar,  with  a  little 
salt  and  pepper,  in  a  saucepan  and  letting  it  boil  rapidly 
until  reduced,  the  proportions  being  2  tablespoons  of  vine- 
gar, 1  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  pepper  cooked  until 
reduced  to  1  teaspoon  of  liquid.    Strain  before  using. 


SAUCE   BERNAISE 

Into  1  tablespoon  of  reduced  vinegar  beat  slowly  the 
yolks  of  4  eggs  to  which  has  been  added  2  tablespoons  of 
cold  water,  and  when  well  mixed  hold  in  a  small  saucepan 


2i8  Golden   Rule  Cook- Book 


above  a  slow  fire ;  put  in  a  small  bit  of  butter,  and  when 
melted  stir  in  another,  and  so  continue  until  1^  table- 
spoons have  been  used.  When  the  sauce  is  smooth  and 
creamy,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  or  paprika,  and  add 
^  teaspoon  of  tarragon  vinegar,  or  1  teaspoon  of  minced 
tarragon  leaves.  The  sauce  cannot  be  served  very  hot 
or  it  will  curdle.    It  may  be  served  cold  also. 


BLACK  BUTTER   SAUCE 

Put  3  or  4  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  with  1 
saltspoon  of  salt  and  a  little  pepper,  and  let  cook  slowly 
until  browned;  then  add  1  teaspoon  of  reduced  vinegar 
or  lemon  juice,  and  serve  hot. 

BREAD    SAUCE 

Put  1  large  slice  of  bread,  cut  an  inch  thick,  into  2  cups 
of  milk  with  1  onion  with  4  cloves  stuck  in  it,  add  pepper, 
salt,  and  1  teaspoon  of  butter.  Let  simmer  until  the 
bread  is  quite  soft,  lift  out  the  onion  and  cloves,  beat 
well  with  a  fork,  and  serve.  Serve  fine  golden  brown 
bread  crumbs  with  the  sauce,  as  these  belong  with  it. 

BROWN   SAUCE 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
well  browned,  remove  from  fire,  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
stirring  until  smooth ;  then  add  gradually  1  cup  of  vege- 
table stock  or  milk,  and,  when  all  is  smooth  and  well 
thickened,  \  teaspoon  of  brown  colouring,  and  salt  and 
pepper.  It  improves  the  flavour  to  let  the  stock  to  be 
used  simmer  for  ten  minutes  with  1  bay  leaf  and  |  an 
onion  added  to  it. 


Sau 


ces 


VARIATIONS   OF  BROWN    SAUCE 


2  19 


Add  chopped  button  mushrooms,  chopped  fried  peppers, 
tiny  pearl  onions,  boiled  eggs,  etc.,  to  vary  brown  sauce. 


SAUCE   BORDELAISE 

To  1  cup  of  brown  sauce  add  1  teaspoon  of  grated  onion, 
3  minced  fresh  mushrooms  (or  1  tablespoon  of  chopped 
canned  ones),  2  teaspoons  of  chopped  parsley,  and  salt 
and  pepper.  Stir  over  a  slow  fire  for  five  minutes  before 
serving. 

DRAWN   BUTTER 

Melt  4  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  stir  in  until  smooth  2 
tablespoons  of  flour;  then  add  slowly  2  cups  of  boiling 
vegetable  stock,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  little  cayenne  or 
paprika. 

CURRY   SAUCE 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  stir  into  it  1  large  onion  chopped  fine,  and  let 
simmer  for  six  or  seven  minutes;  then  add  1  sour  apple 
chopped  fine  (or,  if  it  can  be  had,  1  tablespoon  of  tamarind 
chutney) ,  stir  for  three  or  four  minutes,  then  add  J  cup  of 
strong  vegetable  stock  or  water,  and  let  cook  gently  for 
five  minutes;  pour  on  another  J  cup  of  vegetable  stock 
and  1  cup  of  milk,  into  which  1  dessert  spoon  of  curry 
powder  has  been  stirred  until  smooth ;  let  all  boil  up  once, 
then  press  through  a  sieve,  pressing  well  to  get  the  juices, 
return  to  the  fire,  and  to  thicken,  use  1  tablespoon  of  flour 


2  20  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


blended  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter  to  every  cup  of  liquid. 
Stir  until  the  consistency  of  thick  cream,  and  add  a  little 
salt  before  serving.  The  quantity  of  curry  powder  here 
named  will  make  a  mild  curry  sauce. 


CAPER   SAUCE 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  fn^ing  pan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  stir  until  smooth. 
Now  add,  a  little  at  a  time,  2  cups  of  vegetable  broth,  and 
stir  until  it  boils  and  is  smooth.  Put  in  2  heaping  table- 
spoons of  capers  and  1  chopped  hard-boiled  egg,  and  season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper.  One  tablespoon  of  cream  may 
be  added  at  the  last  to  enrich  the  sauce  if  desired. 


CHEESE   SAUCE 

Make  1  cup  of  highly  seasoned  white  sauce,  and  add  to 
it  1  scant  cup  of  grated  cheese;  stir  in  a  double  boiler 
until  the  cheese  is  melted,  then  add  a  few  drops  of  yellow 
colouring  extract,  and  salt  and  paprika. 


FRENCH   CUCUMBER   SAUCE 

Grate  1  cucumber  and  drain  it  well,  then  add  to  it  \ 
teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  and  1  tablespoon  of 


vinegar. 


DUTCH   BUTTER 


To  every  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  add  1  teaspoon 
of  lemon  juice;  season  -^^ith  salt. 


Sauces  2  2  1 


DEVILLED    SAUCE 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  onion,  and  let  cook 
slowly  for  five  minutes.  Then  add  1  tablespoon  of  chopped 
parsley,  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  of  walnut 
or  mushroom  catsup,  1  tablespoon  of  English  mustard, 
J  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of  black  pepper,  and  a  little 
cayenne.  Thicken  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  when 
smooth  add  enough  vegetable  stock  to  make  the  con- 
sistency of  cream.  The  sauce  may  be  used  as  it  is  or 
pressed  through  a  sieve  to  strain. 

EGG  SAUCE 

To  1  cup  of  well-made  white  sauce  add  9,  hard-boiled 
eggs  chopped  fine,  and  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley, 
and  a  little  salt  and  paprika. 

FRENCH   SAUCE 

Rub  together  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  1  of  butter,  and 
put  in  a  saucepan ;  as  it  melts  add  slowly  1  cup  of  boiling 
water  or  vegetable  stock,  let  boil,  stirring  constantly,  then 
remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  somewhat  cooled  add  the 
juice  of  1  lemon,  2  tablespoons  of  tarragon  or  chervil 
vinegar,  2  egg-yolks  slightly  beaten,  and  salt  and  pepper. 

GERMAN   SAUCE 

Make  brown  sa,uce,  add  h  can  halved  button  mushrooms 
and  1  tablespoon  of  reduced  ^^negar,  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper. 


222 


Golden   Rule   Cook- Book 


GERMAN  EGG   SAUCE 

ISIix  3  beaten  egg-yolks  with  1  teaspoon  of  flour,  1  scant 
cup  of  cream  or  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  1  table- 
spoon of  lemon  juice,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
beat  vigorously,  until  thickened,  over  a  hot  fire,  but  do 
not  let  the  sauce  boil  at  all.  Add  1  hard-boiled  egg, 
chopped  fine,  and  1  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley  before 
serving. 

HERB   SAUCES 

Make  a  good  white  sauce  and  to  each  2  cups  of  sauce 
add  the  herbs  selected,  prepared  as  follows :  Take  a 
handful  of  the  leaves,  and  after  washing  them  well  put 
them  in  a  pan  with  a  little  salted  boiling  water;  let  cook 
for  five  minutes,  then  drain,  and  diy  with  a  cloth,  and  put 
in  a  mortar  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  macerate 
until  fine ;  add  this  to  the  white  sauce.  In  this  way  parsley, 
mint,  tarragon,  chervil,  and  other  herb  sauces  can  be  made. 

SAUCE   HOLLANDAISE 

To  1  tablespoon  of  reduced  vinegar  add  the  yolks  of  4 
eggs  mixed  with  2  tablespoons  of  cold  water;  stir  well 
together,  and  cook  by  holding  above  a  ver}'  slow  fire,  in 
order  to  prevent  curdling;  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 
stirring  it  in  a  little  at  a  time  until  all  is  used.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  warm  or  cold. 

HORSE-RADISH    SAUCE 

Rub  together  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  of  flour  and 
put  in  a  saucepan.  WTien  melted  and  smooth  from  stir- 
ring, add  slowly  IJ  cups  of  heated  milk;  when  properly 


Sauces  223 

thickened  by  slow  cookiiig,  put  in  3  tablespoons  of  grated 
horse-radish,  stir  well,  season  with  salt,  add  1  teaspoon  of 
butter,  and  serve  on  croquettes,  etc. 

MAITRE   D'HOTEL   SAUCE 

This  is  made  bv  using  sauce  Hollandaise  and  adding  to 
it  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  and  1  tablespoon  of  finely 
chopped  parsley. 

MINT   SAUCE 

"Wash  the  mint  and  take  \  cup  of  the  leaves ;  chop  them 
fine,  macerate  in  a  mortar,  then  cover  with  1  cup  of  hot 
vinegar,  add  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  let  stand  a  few 
moments  before  using. 

MUSHROOM   SAUCE 

Make  brown  sauce  and  add  to  it  \  can  of  button  mush- 
rooms, halved.    Let  heat  through  before  serving. 

NUT   SAUCES 

For  these  use  pignola  (pine)  nuts,  almonds,  chestnuts, 
or  any  other  sort.  Remove  the  shells,  blanch  in  boiling 
water  to  remove  the  inner  skin,  and  chop  them  very  fine. 
Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when 
melted  add  to  it  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  onion,  and  let 
cook  for  five  minutes ;  then  add  \  cup  of  chopped  nuts  and 
stir  until  brown,  scrape  the  contents  of  the  pan  into  a 
mortar,  and  pound  them  well.  Blend  1  tablespoon  of  flour 
and  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  put  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 


2  24  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 

melted  and  smooth  add  ^  cup  of  milk  and  J  of  the  nuts ; 
let  cook  slowly  two  or  three  minutes,  add  another  J  cup 
of  milk  and  the  remaining  nuts.  Salt  well,  and  add  a  little 
pepper;  let  cook  very  slowly,  and  when  the  sauce  is  the 
proper  thickness  stir  in  1  tablespoon  of  thick  cream. 

The  sauce  can  be  darkened  with  brown  colouring,  or  by 
browning  the  thickening  flour  in  butter. 

ONION  SAUCE 

Chop  4  onions  very  fine  and  brown  them  in  3  table- 
spoons of  butter ;  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  let  this  brown 
also,  and  thin  w4th  1  cup  of  broth  or  water  or  milk.  Add 
pepper  and  salt,  and  beat  1  egg-yolk  into  it  before  serving. 
Serve  either  strained  or  unstrained. 

PARSLEY   BUTTER 

Put  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when  melted  add  finely 
chopped  parsley  and  some  salt,  using  1  teaspoon  of  parsley 
to  every  tablespoon  of  butter  used.  Serve  on  boiled 
potatoes,  asparagus,  etc. 

PARSLEY   SAUCE 

Into  2  cups  of  white  sauce  stir  1  beaten  ^gg  and  2  table- 
spoons of  finely  chopped  parsley. 

SAUCE   PROVENCAL 

To  1  cup  of  Spanish  sauce  add  1  tablespoon  of  white 
wine,  2  tablespoons  of  tomato  sauce,  and  1  tablespoon  of 
chopped  chives,  and  cook  together  slowly  ten  minutes 
before  serving.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  before 
serving. 


Sauces  225 


PIQUANT   SAUCE 

Put  4  tablespoons  of  \^negar  in  a  saucepan  Trith  1 
tablespoon  of  chopped  shallots  or  onions,  and  let  cook 
slowly  until  only  1  tablespoon  remains;  add  to  this  1 
cup  of  Spanish  sauce,  and  when  at  boiling  point  put  in  the 
sauce  2  teaspoons  of  minced  sour  pickles,  1  teaspoon  of 
chopped  parsley,  and  some  salt  and  pepper;  serve  with 
croquettes  or  vegetables. 

SAUCE   RAVIGOTE 

Ravigote  is  merely  the  name  applied  to  the  mixture  of 
herbs  combined  with  flavouring  for  this  sauce.  These  are 
chives,  cress,  burnet  and  chervil,  in  equal  proportions. 
Use  2  tablespoons  of  the  mixed  herbs,  scald  them  in  tarra- 
gon vinegar,  drain  them,  chop  them  fine,  and  add  them 
to  1  cup  of  plain  mayonnaise. 

SAUCE   ROBERT 

This  is  made  by  adding  to  1  cup  of  Spanish  sauce  2 
tablespoons  of  white  wine,  1  teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  and 
1^  teaspoons  of  mustard  mixed  \\ith  2  teaspoons  tarragon 
vinegar.  Season,  and  make  hot  in  a  double  boiler,  letting 
all  cook  slowly  together  ten  minutes. 

SPANISH   SAUCE 

This  is  a  rich  sauce  which  is  used  as  a  basis  for  many 
sauces,  and  can  be  made  at  a  leisure  time  and  used  any 
time  within  a  few  days.  Any  stock  in  which  vegetables 
have  been  cooked  may  be  used,  but  the  best  one  is  made  as 

15 


2  26  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


follows :  Wash  4  or  5  cups  of  red  beans  or  lentils,  and  after 
soaking  them  in  2  quarts  of  water  for  ten  hours  or  more 
empty  them  with  the  same  water  into  a  saucepan,  and  put 
with  them  3  onions  halved,  3  sprigs  of  parsley,  1  cup  of 
carrots  quartered,  \  cup  of  diced  turnips,  1  tablespoon  of 
salt,  2  stalks  of  celery  cut  in  short  lengths,  and  a  small  bag 
containing  1  teaspoon  of  thyme,  2  bay  leaves,  6  cloves, 
6  whole  peppers,  and  1  teaspoon  of  allspice  berries.  Let 
boil  hard  for  one  minute,  then  set  on  the  stove  where  it 
will  simmer  slowly  for  two  hours.  Strain  the  broth 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  use  the  vegetables  in  a  stew,  a 
deep  pie,  or  a  curry.  To  finish  the  Spanish  sauce  put  % 
tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when  melted  stir 
into  it  2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  let  brown,  stirring  con- 
stantly ;  then  add  a  little  stock  at  a  time  until  about  2  cups 
have  been  used  and  the  sauce  is  the  consistency  of  thick 
cream.  Darken  with  1  teaspoon  of  brown  colouring,  add 
1  tablespoon  of  sherry,  and  pepper  and  salt. 

SPINACH   SAUCE 

Put  1  cup  of  freshly  cooked  or  canned  spinach,  from 
which  the  juice  has  been  pressed,  into  a  basin  or  mortar,  and 
chop  or  mash  to  a  pulp.  Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  to  it  1  small  onion  chopped  fine,  let  cook 
slowly  for  five  minutes,  then  add  the  spinach,  and  let  cook 
for  ten  minutes  more.  Put  1  cup  of  milk  into  a  double 
boiler  with  1  bay  leaf,  1  stalk  of  celery  (or  some  celery 
seed) ,  and  when  it  boils  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour  blended 
with  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  when  thickened  stir  the  spinach  into  this,  sprinkle 
with  grated  nutmeg,  and  let  cook  together  for  ten  minutes. 
Press  through  a  sieve  before  serving. 


Sauces  227 


SAUCE   TARTARE 


Make  a  plain  mayonnaise  sauce  (see  Salads),  and  to 
each  cup  add  1  teaspoon  of  gherkins  and  2  teaspoons  of 
capers,  both  very  finely  minced ;  sprinkle  a  little  cayenne 
on  the  sauce  before  serving. 


TOMATO   SAUCE 

Use  6  fresh  tomatoes,  and  after  washing  them  slice 
them,  skins  and  all.  Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, and  when  melted  add  2  tablespoons  of  finely  chopped 
onion,  let  cook  slowly  for  five  minutes,  then  put  with 
them  the  tomatoes,  2  bay  leaves,  1  clove  of  garlic,  1  tea- 
spoon of  sugar,  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  cook  gently 
for  fifteen  minutes ;  then  strain,  pressing  through  a  sieve, 
and  return  the  liquid  to  the  fire  to  simmer  until  reduced 
to  the  proper  consistency. 


TOMATO    SAUCE   WITH   OTHER   VEGETABLES 

Make  tomato  sauce,  using  with  it  chopped  celery, 
chopped  peppers,  or  chopped  mushrooms,  which  have 
been  fried  for  ten  minutes  in  hot  butter  and  added  after 
the  sauce  is  strained. 


TOMATO   SAUCE  WITH   NUTS 

Chop  %  tablespoons  of  blanched  nuts,  fry  them  for  ten 
minutes  in  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  and  add  these  to 
strained  tomato  sauce. 


22  8  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


TOMATO   SAUCE  WITH   EGG 

To  each  cup  of  strained  tomato  sauce  add  2  hard-boiled 
eggs  chopped  fine. 


SAUCE  VINAIGRETTE 

To  each  cup  of  French  dressing  add  1  tablespoon  of 
minced  onion  and  1  tablespoon  of  macerated  parsley. 


WHITE  SAUCE 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  as  soon  as 
it  is  melted  stir  into  it  slowly  3  tablespoons  of  flour,  using 
1  tablespoon  at  a  time,  then  add  slowly  2  cups  of  warm 
vegetable  stock  or  milk,  stirring  all  the  while;  then  add 
I  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of  pepper,  and  cook 
slowly  for  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  add  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  and  stir  for  another  minute.  Some  flour 
thickens  more  than  others,  and  if  the  sauce  seems  to  thick, 
thin  with  a  little  cream  or  milk. 

White  sauce  may  be  varied  in  many  ways  by  using  onion 
juice,  mushroom  catsup,  chopped  chives,  etc. 

The  white  sauce  may  be  made  in  a  double  boiler.  Put 
the  milk  in  the  top  receptacle,  and  when  boiling  add  the 
flour  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk,  then  the  butter,  etc., 
and  let  cook  ten  minutes  or  until  thickened. 


uOME  people  are  not  to  he  per- 
suaded to  taste  of  any  creatures  they 
have  daily  seen  and  been  acquainted 
with  whilst  they  were  alive.  — In  this 
behaviour,  methinks  there  appears 
something  like  a  consciousness  of 
guilt;  it  looks  as  if  they  endeavoured 
to  save  themselves  from  the  imputation 
of  a  crime  {which  they  know  sticks 
somewhere)  by  removing  the  cause 
of  it  as  far  as  they  can  from  them- 
selves. 
From  the  Essays  of  DoUGLAS  Jerrold. 


E 


EGGS 


BOILED   EGGS 


GGS  are  very  palatable  when  put  in  boiling  water  and 
cooked  for  three  or  three  and  a  half  minutes,  but  some 
cooks  recommend  that  "boiled  eggs"  should  never  boil, 
but  instead,  be  placed  in  a  large  saucepan  which  is  filled 
with  water  that  has  boiled  and  just  been  removed  from  the 
fire.  The  instructions  are  to  cover  the  saucepan  closely 
after  putting  the  eggs  in  the  water,  and  let  it  stand  on  the 
back  of  the  stove,  the  eggs  to  be  removed  in  ten  minutes 
if  wanted  soft,  and  in  twenty  minutes  if  liked  well  set. 
Hard-boiled  eggs  are  certainly  more  palatable  cooked  in 
this  way  than  when  boiled  for  ten  minutes  in  the  ordinary 
way. 

FRIED    EGGS 

Put  a  little  butter  into  a  small  frying  pan,  and  when 
melted  break  an  egg  into  a  saucer,  and  slide  it  carefully 
into  the  hot  butter,  and  let  it  fry  until  the  white  is  thoroughly 
set,  cooking  as  many  as  are  required,  separately,  in  the 
same  way.  If  a  tight  cover  is  put  over  the  frying  pan 
when  the  egg  is  put  in,  the  yolk  of  the  egg  will  be  as  pink 
as  a  nicely  poached  egg  when  done.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt  before  serving.  A  little  Worcestershire  sauce  or 
walnut  catsup  heated  in  the  pan  and  poured  over  fried 
eggs  adds  variety. 


232  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


POACHED  EGGS 

Fill  a  deep  frying  pan  §  full  of  hot  water,  and  stir  into  it 
one  teaspoon  of  vinegar  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  When 
the  water  reaches  boiling  point  break  the  eggs  carefully 
one  by  one  into  it,  remove  the  pan  from  the  intense  heat, 
cover  it,  and  let  the  eggs  cook  until  the  whites  are  firmly 
set.  If  the  water  is  shallow  the  eggs  will  spread  and  be 
more  flat,  in  which  case  the  boiling  water  must  be  dipped 
up  over  the  yolks  with  a  spoon  to  make  them  pink ;  if  the 
water  is  deep  the  eggs  will  be  more  round  than  flat.  When 
the  eggs  are  done  lift  them  carefully  from  the  water  with  a 
perforated  strainer  in  order  to  drain  off  the  water 
thoroughly,  and  serve  them  on  hot  toast. 


POACHED  EGGS  WITH  GRAVY 

Poach  eggs  and  serve  them  with  Sauce  Bernaise,  or 
any  piquant  sauce. 


POACHED   EGGS  INDIENNE 

Poach  the  number  of  eggs  required,  and  after  placing 
them  on  toast  pour  over  them  a  thin  curry  sauce. 


EGGS  WALDORF 

Place  nicely  poached  eggs  on  toast,  and  fit  a  freshly 
cooked  mushroom  as  a  cap  over  each  yolk.  Surround  the 
toast  with  brown  sauce  containing  quartered  mushrooms. 


Eggs 


233 


SCRAMBLED   EGGS 


Break  six  or  more  into  a  bowl,  beat  them  ligbtly  with  a 
fork,  and  pour  them  into  a  frying  pan  into  which  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  has  been  melted;  stir  continually  over  a 
very  slow  fire  until  they  are  well  set,  seasoning  them 
meanwhile  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  adding  another  \ 
tablespoon  of  butter  in  small  pieces  during  the  cooking. 
Serve  with  a  garnish  of  small  triangular  pieces  of  toast. 
One  tablespoon  of  cream  can  be  added  to  the  eggs  before 
serving  if  desired.  Eggs  may  be  scrambled  with  milk, 
using  ^  cup  of  milk  to  4  eggs,  and  then  proceeding  as 
above. 

SCRAMBLED   EGGS   WITH   CHEESE 

Make  plain  scrambled  eggs,  and  when  nearly  set  add 
2  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese  for  every  6  eggs  used,  and 
1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley.    Serve  on  toast. 

SCRAMBLED   EGGS  WITH  MUSHROOMS,   PEAS,   ETC. 

Scramble  6  eggs,  and  two  or  three  minutes  before  re- 
moving from  the  fire  add  to  them  a  can  of  button  mush- 
rooms cut  in  slices,  lengthwise,  and  1  tablespoon  of  finely 
chopped  parsley.  In  the  same  way  peas,  tomatoes,  as- 
paragus tips,  chopped  sweet  peppers,  etc.,  can  be  used. 

SAVOURY    SCRAMBLED    EGGS 

Prepare  plain  scrambled  eggs,  and  just  before  taking  off 
the  fire  add  2  tablespoons  of  chopped  chives  (or  green 
stems  of  young  onions  or  shallots  can  be  used  instead), 
and  4-  a  tablespoon  of  finely  chopped  parsley;  serve  on 
hot  toast. 


2  34  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


SCRAMBLED    EGGS   INDIENNE 

Make  plain  scrambled  eggs,  and  just  before  serving 
stir  into  them  1  tablespoon  of  cream,  into  which  has  been 
stirred  1  teaspoon  of  curry  powder  and  J  teaspoon  of  onion 
juice.    Serve  on  hot  toast. 


SPANISH   EGGS 

For  6  eggs  use  1  large  tomato  and  1  small  onion.  Chop 
the  onion  fine,  and  fry  it  five  minutes  in  1  tablespoon  of 
butter;  then  add  the  chopped  tomato,  and  stir  another 
minute  over  the  fire.  Now  pour  in  the  eggs  and  scramble 
them,  adding  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  saltspoon  of  pepper. 
Garnish  with  small  triangles  of  toast. 


SHIRRED    EGGS 

Butter  individual  gratin  dishes,  and  break  into  them  1 
or  2  eggs  as  desired.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a 
sprinkling  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  put  into  the  oven 
for  five  minutes,  or  until  the  eggs  are  set.  Place  each  dish 
on  a  small  plate  with  a  paper  doily. 


SHIRRED    EGGS   WITH   TOMATOES 

Use  as  many  shallow,  individual  gratin  dishes  as  there 
are  persons  to  be  served,  and,  after  buttering  each  dish, 
break  into  it  1  egg,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  yolk. 
Halve  some  small  tomatoes,  and  set  one  half,  cut  side  up, 
in  each  dish ;  season  the  whole  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
set  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes  or  less. 


^sg^ 


235 


GRIDDLED    EGGS 


Heat  a  griddle  and  butter  it  slightly,  and  break  upon 
it  3  or  4  eggs,  disturbing  the  yolks  so  as  to  break  them. 
When  a  little  browned  on  one  side  turn  them  with  a  cake- 
turner  and  fry  the  other  side. 


PLAIN    OMELET 

Put  3  or  4  eggs  in  a  bowl  and  beat  them  ten  or  twelve 
times  with  a  fork  vigorously.  Put  1  scant  tablespoon  of 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  as  soon  as  melted  turn  in  the 
eggs  and  shake  over  a  slow  fire  until  they  are  set ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  turn  the  omelet  together  as  it  is  let 
to  slide  from  the  pan,  and  place  on  a  hot  dish.  Make 
several  small  omelets  rather  than  one  large  one,  and  place 
on  white  paper  doilies,  and  garnish  with  parsley  to  serve. 
The  trick  of  shaking  an  omelet  is  the  secret  of  making  a 
good  one,  and  the  egg  mixture  should  be  not  over  \  an 
inch  deep  in  the  pan. 


OMELET   SOUFFLE 

Take  4  to  6  fresh  eggs,  separate  the  yolks  and  whites, 
and  beat  each  until  as  light  as  possible.  Butter  a  deep 
frying  pan,  mix  the  yolks  and  whites  lightly  together  with 
a  fork,  and  put  in  the  hot  frying  pan,  smoothing  somewhat 
with  a  fork  to  level.  Season  the  top  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  shake  over  a  slow  fire  until  the  omelet  is  delicately 
browned  on  the  bottom;  turn  it  together  and  serve  on  a 
hot  platter. 


236  Golden   Rule   Cook-Bo  ok 


HERB    OMELET 

Make  like  plain  omelet,  stirring  with  every  4  eggs  used 
1  teaspoon  each  of  powdered  thyme,  or  sweet  marjoram, 
sage,  chopped  onion  tops  or  chives,  and  parsley. 


CHEESE   OMELET 

For  omelet  souffle  made  with  6  eggs  add  J  cup  of  grated 
cheese  to  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  \  cup  to  the  beaten 
whites  before  putting  them  together. 

In  making  plain  omelet  with  cheese  add  \  cup  of  cheese 
to  4  eggs  after  they  are  in  the  omelet  pan.  Sprinkle  with 
grated  cheese  to  serve,  and  garnish  with  watercress  or 
parsley. 

RUM   OMELET 

Make  an  omelet  souffle,  put  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  \ 
cup  of  heated  rum  around  it,  and  light  it  with  a  match. 
Rum  is  easily  made  to  blaze  if  a  teaspoon  is  filled  with  it 
and  a  lighted  match  held  under  the  tip  of  the  spoon.  The 
rum  on  the  platter  can  then  be  easily  lighted  with  that  in 
the  spoon. 

BAKED    OMELET   SOUFFLE 

Beat  the  whites  of  6  eggs  very  stiff  and  the  yolks  of  3. 
Mix  the  whites  and  the  yolks,  using  a  fork ;  then  stir  in 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  3  tablespoons  of  powdered 
sugar.  Heap  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  and  cook  in  a  hot 
oven  about  fifteen  minutes. 


^gg^ 


^27 


EGGS   CARMELITE 


Prepare  1  cup  of  very  finely  chopped  boiled  spinach  by 
adding  to  it  1  teaspoon  of  butter  and  1  saltspoon  of  grated 
nutmeg,  and  put  where  it  will  keep  warm.  Hard  boil  6 
or  8  eggs,  then  cut  each  carefully  in  two,  lengthwise ;  re- 
move the  yolks  and  stir  them  into  the  spinach,  mashing 
them  well,  and  mashing  all  together  until  the  yolks  are 
thoroughly  mixed  with  the  spinach ;  then  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  neatly  fill  the  halves  of  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  with  the  spinach.  Make  a  sauce  with  2  cups  of  milk, 
1  teaspoon  of  butter,  and  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  a  dash  of 
paprika,  and  1  cup  of  grated  cheese.  When  this  has  thick- 
ened arrange  2  or  3  halved  eggs  in  each  individual  gratin 
dish,  and  pour  around  them  some  of  the  sauce,  and  set 
in  the  oven  five  minutes  to  make  thoroughly  hot,  or  serve 
on  a  large  dish  garnished  with  small  triangular  pieces  of 
toast. 

EGG   WITH    MASHED    POTATO 

Use  a  long,  narrow  gratin  dish,  and  arrange  cold  mashed 
potato  in  it  in  ridges  with  a  spoon,  and  make  three  or  four 
hollows  in  the  surface.  Into  each  of  these  break  an  eggy 
and  let  all  bake  in  the  oven  until  the  eggs  are  set.  Tomato 
or  white  sauce  can  be  served  with  this. 


EGGS   NEWBURG 

Hard  boil  6  eggs,  plunge  them  into  cold  water  for  a 
moment,  then  peel,  and  when  cooled,  so  they  will  not 
crumble  in  cutting,  cut  them  in  half.  Have  ready  a  sauce 
made  of  1  cup  of  cream  (or  milk)  and  3  tablespoons  of 


238  Golden   Rule  Cook -Book 

butter,  to  which  when  hot  is  added  2  tablespoons  of  sherry, 
2  tablespoons  of  brandy  (the  latter  may  be  omitted),  1 
saltspoon  of  pepper,  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Let  cook 
three  minutes,  then  beat  in  vigorously  the  beaten  yolks  of 
4  eggs,  stir  until  thickened,  add  a  dash  of  paprika,  and 
serve  over  the  hard-boiled  eggs  on  toast. 

EGGS   LYONNAISE 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  finely  chopped  onion,  and  let  simmer  slowly 
for  eight  or  ten  minutes ;  then  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
and  stir  well  until  smooth.  Add  to  this  J  cup  of  milk,  J 
teaspoon  of  salt,  and  ^  saltspoon  of  pepper,  and  let  cook 
three  or  four  minutes  only.  Pour  into  a  deep  gratin  dish, 
and  break  upon  it  6  eggs ;  sprinkle  with  J  cup  of  bread 
crumbs,  and  let  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  about  five 
minutes,  or  until  the  eggs  are  set.  Serve  in  the  same 
dish. 

DEVILLED    EGGS 

Hard  boil  the  number  of  eggs  required,  halve  them,  and 
serve  on  toast  with  devilled  sauce. 

JAPANESE   EGGS 

Hard  boil  the  number  of  eggs  required,  and,  after  halv- 
ing them,  remove  the  yolks,  and  mix  them  with  a  little 
butter  (using  1  tablespoon  to  6  eggs),  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
little  tomato  chutney  or  Harvey  sauce.  Refill  the  halved 
whites  with  this,  and  use  the  eggs  to  garnish  2  cups  of 
boiled  rice.  Pour  over  all  1  cup  of  white  sauce  or  parsley 
sauce  to  serve. 


^gg^ 


239 


GOLDEN   ROD    EGGS 


Hard  boil  5  eggs,  take  off  the  shell,  and  separate  the 
yolks  from  the  whites,  chopping  the  whites  fine  and  press- 
ing the  yolks  through  a  sieve,  keeping  whites  and  yolks 
separate.  Put  1  cup  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  when 
it  boils  add  to  it  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  tablespoon 
of  cornstarch  which  have  been  rubbed  together,  and  when 
the  sauce  has  thickened  season  it  generously  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  stir  into  it  the  chopped  whites  of  the  eggs. 
While  the  sauce  is  cooking  prepare  5  rounds  of  toast,  and 
place  them  on  a  hot  dish.  Cover  each  piece  of  toast  with 
a  layer  of  white  sauce,  sprinkle  this  with  a  layer  of  the 
yolks,  then  more  of  the  white  sauce,  and  the  remainder 
of  the  yolks,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stand  in 
the  oven  a  moment  or  two  before  serving. 


FROTHED    EGGS 

Separate  the  yolks  and  whites  of  as  many  eggs  as  are 
required,  putting  each  yolk  in  its  shell  or  in  a  separate 
dish.  Beat  the  whites  until  very  stiff,  and  fill  a  well- 
buttered  custard  cup  half  full  of  the  white  of  egg ;  make 
a  hole  in  the  centre,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon 
juice,  and  drop  a  yolk  in  each  cup.  Put  in  a  shallow  pan 
of  boiling  water  with  a  cover  on  it,  and  when  the  eggs 
are  set  turn  out  onto  buttered  toast.  Garnish  with  pars- 
ley butter. 

FRIED    STUFFED    EGGS 

Hard  boil  6  eggs  and  halve  them  carefully,  removing 
the  yolks.     Put  the  yolks  through  a  sieve,  and  rub  to  a 


240  Golde7i    Rule   Cook-Book 

paste  with  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  salt,  pepper, 
and  I  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  using  a  little  at  a  time,  so  as 
not  to  use  it  all  unless  needed  to  make  the  mixture  of  the 
right  consistency  for  refilling  the  halved  whites.  Care- 
fully fill  the  places  made  vacant  by  the  removed  yolks, 
roll  the  half-egg  in  beaten  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep,  hot  fat.  Serve  with  2  cups  of  white  sauce,  and  add 
to  it  2  tablespoons  of  diced  pickled  beets,  which  makes 
the  sauce  pink. 

This  same  effect  may  be  had  to  some  extent  by  simply 
using  hard-boiled  eggs,  frying  them,  and  serving  with  same 
sauce  or  white  sauce,  to  which  1  tablespoon  of  capers  has 
been  added. 

SWISS    EGG   TOAST 

Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  on  a  shallow  or  flat  dish, 
and  sprinkle  over  it  1^  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese ;  then 
break  into  the  butter  3  eggs,  taking  care  not  to  break  the 
yolks.  Sprinkle  well  \\'itli  salt  and  pepper  and  1^  table- 
spoons of  grated  cheese  mixed  with  2  teaspoons  of  finely 
chopped  parsley.  Bake  in  the  oven  until  the  eggs  are 
set,  then  cut  each  egg  out  round  with  a  cutter,  and  serve 
on  rounds  of  toast. 

EGGS    CAROLINA 

To  serve  four  persons  hard  boil  6  eggs,  then  put  them 
in  cold  water  for  one  minute,  peel  2  of  them,  chop  the 
whites,  and  mix  vnXh.  melted  butter  and  1  tablespoon  of 
chopped  parsley,  and  form  into  nests  on  4  pieces  of  hot 
"corn  bread."  Then  peel  the  other  4  eggs,  and  arrange 
one  on  end  in  each  nest.  Pour  a  little  parsley  butter  on 
each,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 


^gg' 


241 


MiJNCHNER   EGGS 


Hard  boil  6  eggs,  then  peel  them,  and  put  each  on  a  leaf 
of  lettuce  or  cabbage,  encircling  it  w-ith  grated  horse-radish, 
and  serve  with  a  sauce  made  of  vinegar  to  which  is  added 
salt  and  dry  mustard. 


EGGS    IN    MARINADE 

Hard  boil  the  eggs  required,  then  remove  the  shells,  and 
stick  4  cloves  in  each  egg.  Put  2  cups  of  \^negar  on  to  boil, 
and  rub  together  a  little  vinegar,  ^  teaspoon  of  mustard, 
^  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  ^  teaspoon  of  pepper,  and  stir  into 
the  boiling  vinegar.  Place  the  eggs  in  a  glass  jar,  and  pour 
the  boiled  vinegar  over  them.  They  can  be  used  in  a 
fortnight,  halved  or  sliced  as  a  garnish  or  in  salads. 


EGGS    PARISIENNE 

Butter  as  many  timbale  moulds  as  are  required,  and  dust 
the  inside  -udth  chopped  parsley ;  then  break  into  each  an 
egg,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Set  the  moulds 
in  water  in  a  shallow  pan,  and  place  in  the  oven  until  well 
set  or  hard.  Turn  out  onto  a  flat  dish,  or  on  indi^adual 
dishes,  and  with  them  serve  bread  sauce,  or  any  sauce 
desired. 

EGGS    PERIGORD 

Butter  small  moulds  or  cups,  then  sprinkle  them  with 
chopped  parsley,  and  on  the  bottom  (which  will  be  the  top 
when  they  are  turned  out)  place  a  symmetrical  pattern 
made  of  cut  beets  and  truffles  or  pickled  walnuts.    Drop 

16 


242  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 

one  eg^  into  each  mould,  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
set  the  moulds  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water;  cover,  and  let 
cook  until  firm.  Turn  out  onto  rounds  of  toast,  and  serve 
with  a  hot  tomato  sauce,  or  any  savoury  sauce. 

EGGS   WITH    CHEESE 

Into  a  shallow  round  or  oval  gratin  dish,  or  small  indi- 
vidual dishes,  put  melted  butter  to  cover  the  bottom,  and 
encircle  the  outer  edge  with  thinly  sliced,  rather  dry, 
cheese ;  inside  this  break  enough  eggs  to  cover  the  bottom 
of  the  dish,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  yolks.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  into  the  oven  until  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  are  thoroughly  set. 

EGGS    MORNAY 

Drop  eggs  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  and  then  cover 
them  with  a  highly  seasoned  white  sauce  to  which  some 
egg-yolks  have  been  added  (using  1  yolk  to  each  ^  cup  of 
sauce),  also  salt  and  paprika.  Sprinkle  the  top  with  grated 
cheese,  and  put  in  the  oven  to  bake  until  the  egg  is  firmly 
set. 

CREAMED    EGGS 

Butter  a  shallow  dish,  pour  into  it  1  scant  cup  of  milk, 
and  let  heat.  When  hot  cover  the  surface  with  eggs,  cover, 
and  let  poach  on  top  of  stove  until  set ;  sprinkle  with  celery 
salt,  and  then  cover  with  cream,  and  set  in  the  oven  for 
five  minutes.  Sprinkle  the  top  with  finely  chopped  celery 
tops  to  serve.  This  may  be  cooked  in  one  large  dish  or 
in  individual  gratin  dishes. 


^gg' 


243 


EGGS    OMAR   PASHA 


Butter  individual  gratin  dishes,  and  break  %  eggs  into 
each,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  yolks.  Slice  small 
onions  so  the  separate  rings  are  unbroken,  and  place  a 
circle  of  these  rings  on  the  eggs  around  the  edge  of  the 
dish.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  with  grated 
cheese,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  the  eggs  are  thor- 
oughly set. 

TURKISH    EGGS 

Butter  one  large  gratin  dish  or  several  small  ones,  break 
into  them  enough  eggs  to  cover  the  bottom,  taking  care  not 
to  break  the  yolks;  put  them  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
the  whites  are  quite  set,  and  then  garnish  by  putting  a  few 
tablespoons  of  boiled  rice  on  the  eggs  around  the  edge  of 
the  dish,  alternating  with  button  mushrooms,  which  have 
been  cut  in  thin  slices  and  mixed  with  brown  sauce. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  just  before  serving. 

EGGS    BEURRE-NOIR 

These  are  best  served  in  individual  gratin  dishes 
measuring  about  four  inches  across.  Put  2  tablespoons  of 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  let  it  cook  over  a  slow  fire  until  a 
rich  brown,  but  not  burnt.  Add  to  it  1  teaspoon  of  lemon 
juice,  and  cover  the  bottom  of  each  gratin  dish  with  the 
(black)  butter;  then  break  into  each  dish  1  egg,  or  2  if 
required,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  yolk.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  arrange  8  or  10  capers  on  each;  put 
in  the  oven  eight  or  ten  minutes,  or  until  the  eggs  are  well 
set.  Set  each  dish  on  a  doily  on  a  small  plate  before 
serving,  with  a  sprig  of  parsley  on  the  side. 


2  44  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 


EGGS    CREOLE 

Take  a  shallow  gratin  dish  large  enough  to  contain  the 
eggs  required,  allowing  2  eggs  to  each  person,  butter  the 
gratin  dish,  and  break  the  eggs  carefully  into  it,  taking 
care  not  to  break  the  yolks ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  set  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  whites  are  stiff; 
while  they  are  cooking  prepare  the  following  garnish 
which  will  be  sufficient  for  6  or  8  eggs.  Put  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  when  melted  add  1  onion  cut  into 
thin  slices,  and  stir  it  about  three  or  four  minutes.  Then 
add  to  it  1  tomato  which  has  been  peeled  and  chopped, 
1  sweet  green  pepper  cut  in  very  thin  slices,  each  broken 
in  several  pieces,  and  J  can  of  button  mushrooms,  which 
are  prepared  by  draining  and  washing  and  cutting  length- 
wise in  3  or  4  pieces.  Let  all  cook  slowly  together  for 
eight  or  ten  minutes,  stirring  carefully  and  adding  more 
butter  if  necessary.  When  nearly  cooked  season  gener- 
ously with  pepper  and  salt,  add  1  tablespoon  of  tomato 
sauce,  and  when  the  eggs  are  removed  from  the  oven 
place  this  garnish  on  the  eggs,  encircling  the  outer  edge. 
This  garnish  can  be  varied  as  to  quantities  to  suit  taste, 
using  more  or  less  tomatoes  or  onions.  This  is  very  nice 
done  in  individual  gratin  dishes,  2  eggs  being  used  in 
each  dish. 

EGGS   IN    SAVOURY    BUTTER 

Savoury  butter  is  made  by  melting  good  butter,  and 
adding  to  it  any  chopped  herb,  —  chives,  parsley,  etc.  Put 
a  little  of  this  in  individual  gratin  dishes,  and  break  into 
them  1  or  2  eggs  as  desired.  Pour  a  little  of  the  savoury 
butter  over  the  top  of  each  egg,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 


^gg^ 


245 


and  put  in  the  oven  until  the  eggs  are  thoroughly  set.  If 
fresh  tarragon  is  available,  two  nicely  shaped  leaves 
crossed  on  the  yolk  of  the  egg  make  a  pretty  garnish,  or 
two  leaves  of  lemon  verbena  may  be  used  instead. 


EGG    MOULD    FOR   VEGETABLES 

Make  egg  mixture  as  for  egg  timbales,  and  pour  into  a 
buttered  ring  mould.  Cook  in  pan  of  water  in  the  oven 
twenty  minutes  or  until  set,  and  then  turn  out  onto  a  hot, 
round,  fiat  dish,  and  fill  the  centre  with  hot  button  mush- 
rooms which  are  mixed  with  tomato  sauce,  or  with  peas, 
either  with  or  without  the  sauce. 


CANUCK   EGG   TOAST 

Sprinkle  fresh  toast  with  walnut,  mushroom,  or  any 
savoury  catsup,  then  heap  on  it  nicely  scrambled  eggs  in 
which  milk  has  been  used,  and  on  top  put  a  generous  layer 
of  grated  cheese ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put 
under  the  oven  fiame  of  a  gas  stove.  Let  the  cheese 
brown,  then  remove  and  garnish  the  top  with  slices  cut 
from  black  pickled  walnuts,  or  a  few  capers,  or  with  thin 
strips  of  pimentos,  or  chopped  chives. 


ESCALLOPED    EGGS 

Hard  boil  8  eggs,  cut  the  whites  into  medium-sized 
pieces,  and  press  the  yolks  through  a  sieve  or  ricer.  Put 
1  cup  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  with  it  1  tablespoon  of 
finely  minced  onion,  shallot,  or  chives.  When  the  milk 
boils  add  to  it  1  tablespoon  of  thickening  flour  dissolved 


246  Golden  Rule  Cook-Book 

in  a  little  milk  and  stir  until  thickened.  Season  with  ^ 
teaspoon  of  salt,  \  teaspoon  of  pepper,  a  dash  of  paprika, 
and  stir  in  the  riced  egg-yolks  and  the  diced  whites. 
Serve  in  small  dishes,  or  covered  with  crumbs  and  browned 
in  the  oven,  or  on  rounds  of  toast.  One  or  2  sweet  green 
peppers  finely  chopped  vary  this  dish. 


1  WOULD  not  enter  on  my 
list  of  friends,  though  graced 
with  polished  manners  and  fine 
sense,  yet  wanting  sensibility, 
the  man  who  needlessly  sets  foot 
upon  a  worm.  —  Cowper. 


CHEESE 


CHEESE   RAMEKINS 

X  AKE  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs  and  1  cup  of  milk,  and 
cook  together  until  smooth;  then  add  2  tablespoons  of 
melted  butter,  1  scant  teaspoon  of  mustard,  and  6  table- 
spoons of  grated  cheese.  Stir  over  the  fire  for  one  minute, 
then  remove,  and  add  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  and  the 
lightly  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs;  afterwards  stir  in  with  a 
fork  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pour 
into  ramekin  dishes,  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven,  or  cook  and  serve  in  a  baking  dish. 

BAKED  CHEESE  AND  BREAD 

Soak  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs  for  two  or  three  minutes  in 
2  cups  of  milk,  then  beat  in  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  thoroughly 
beaten,  and  1  cup  of  grated  cheese,  and  lastly  the  whites 
of  the  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  into  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  dot  the  top  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs,  and  bake  until  a  light  brown,  which  will  be  in 
from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour. 

CHEESE   FONDU 

Put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  1  cup  of  milk,  or  cream  if  desired,  1  cup  of  fine 
bread  crumbs,  2  cups  of  grated  cheese,  J  teaspoon  of  salt. 


250  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 

J  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard,  and  some  cayenne  pepper. 
Stir  constantly  until  well  heated  through,  and  then  add  2 
lightly  beaten  eggs,  and  serve  on  rounds  of  toast. 

CHEESE   RELISH 

Put  1  cup  of  milk  into  a  double  boiler,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  when  hot  stir  in  1  cup  of  grated  cheese, 
and  let  cook  for  five  minutes;  then  add  3  crumbed  soda 
crackers  and  serve  on  toast,  with  a  sprinkUng  of  paprika. 

CHEESE   MERINGUES 

Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  into 
them  with  a  fork  2  tablespoons  of  Parmesan  or  grated 
cheese,  2  drops  of  tabasco,  a  little  salt  and  paprika ;  drop 
1  tablespoon  at  a  time  into  hot  fat,  and  fry  until  brown ; 
then  drain  and  sprinkle  with  fresh  salt  and  paprika  before 
serving. 

CREAMED    CHEESE 

Make  2  cups  of  well-seasoned  white  sauce,  add  a  few 
drops  of  golden  yellow  colouring,  stir  into  it  ^  cup  of  cheese 
cut  into  dice  (or  grated  if  preferred) ,  and  when  the  cheese 
is  softened  and  hot  serve  on  rounds  of  toast  and  sprinkle 
with  paprika. 

CHEESE   PANCAKES 

Make  small  pancakes  of  1  cup  of  milk,  1  egg,  and 
enough  flour  to  thicken,  and  spread  them  with  grated 
cheese  moistened  with  a  little   melted   butter;   sprinkle 


Cheese  251 

chopped  chives  mixed  with  parsley  over  the  cheese,  and 
a  dash  of  any  savoury  catsup  (if  liked) ,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  roll  the  pancakes  after  cooking,  and  serve  as  a 
savoury  or  luncheon  dish. 

COTTAGE   CHEESE 

Take  2  quarts  or  more  of  sour  milk  or  cream,  and  add 
to  it  the  same  quantity  of  rapidly  boiling  water,  turn  into 
a  straining-bag,  and  hang  up  until  dry.  When  ready  to 
use,  turn  out  of  the  bag  and  rub  until  smooth;  add  a 
seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  sweet  cream. 
Beat  until  light  and  serve  ice-cold.  A  little  cream  can  be 
served  to  eat  upon  it,  if  liked. 

This  can  also  be  made  by  heating  the  sour  milk  or  cream 
and  using  no  water,  but  the  milk  must  only  be  heated 
enough  to  separate  and  not  enough  to  boil. 


WELSH    RAREBIT 

Cut  in  very  small  thin  pieces  1  pound  of  American 
cheese ;  put  it  in  a  chafing-dish  and  stir  until  melted,  then 
add  1  teaspoon  of  mustard,  some  salt,  and  slowly  stir  in  \ 
a  glass  of  beer  or  ale,  and  season  with  cayenne  or  paprika 
just  before  serving  on  toast. 


BACHELOR'S    RAREBIT 

Make  Welsh  rarebit,  and  five  minutes  before  serving 
stir  into  it  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  green  peppers  and 
1  tablespoon  of  chopped  Spanish  pimentos. 


252  Golden   Rule   Cook  -  Book 


DELMONICO   RAREBIT 

Cut  in  small  pieces  1  pound  of  American  cheese,  put 
it  in  a  chafing-dish  and  stir  until  melted ;  then  add  \  a 
glass  of  beer  or  ale,  some  salt  and  cayenne  or  paprika,  1 
teaspoon  dry  mustard,  the  yolk  of  1  ^gg^  then  the  whipped 
white  of  the  egg,  and  serve  at  once  on  toast.  The  white  of 
the  %^^g  militates  against  any  "  stringiness "  which  is  apt 
to  come  from  cooking  certain  sorts  of  cheese.  A  little 
milk  can  be  used,  if  desired,  instead  of  beer. 


PINK   RAREBIT 

Drain  1  can  of  tomatoes  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  season  them  well  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  after  they  have  cooked  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes  add  1  pound  of  fresh  American  cheese  cut  into 
thin  slices,  and  stir  until  melted;  season  generously  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  on  rounds  of  toast. 

LIPTAUER   CHEESE 

Remove  the  paper  from  the  smallest  Neufchatel  cream 
cheese,  which  is  nearer  like  real  Liptauer  than  any  other 
that  can  be  had  in  America,  and  set  it  in  the  centre  of  a 
plate ;  surround  it  with  1  teaspoon  of  paprika,  \  teaspoon 
of  salt,  a  small  mustard  spoon  of  French  mustard,  a  piece 
of  fresh  butter  half  the  size  of  the  cheese,  2  teaspoons  of 
minced  onion,  and  1  teaspoon  of  capers.  The  ** Liptauer" 
should  be  blended  at  the  table  with  a  silver  knife.  Add 
first  the  butter,  then  the  capers,  then  the  onion,  then  the 
seasoning,  and  make  into  a  cream.  Serve  on  brown  or 
white  bread,  or  crackers. 


Cheese  253 


ROQUEFORT   CHEESE   GOURMET 

Cream  J  pound  of  Roquefort  cheese  with  1  tablespoon 
of  butter  and  some  salt  and  1  tablespoon  of  sherry,  and 
serve  on  water  crackers. 


CAMEMBERT   CHEESE 

A  pretty  way  to  serve  Camembert  cheese  is  to  place  the 
cheese,  when  removed  from  its  box  and  paper,  on  a  round 
paper  doily  on  a  large  plate,  and  surround  it  with  a  heavy 
wreath  of  watercress  and  radishes  cut  to  look  like  flowers. 


CHEESE   "DREAMS" 

Cut  fresh  cheese  into  thin  slices,  spread  with  made 
mustard,  sprinkle  with  paprika,  lay  between  two  trimmed 
slices  of  bread,  and  toast  on  both  sides  until  nicely 
browned,  using  a  very  slow  fire. 


GRATED   CHEESE 

Instead  of  throwing  away  bits  of  dried  cheese  these 
should  be  grated  and  put  in  a  wide  mouthed,  covered 
glass  jar. 


If  Plutarch's  advice,  that  those  who 
affirm  that  they  were  intended  by 
nature  for  a  diet  of  flesh  food, 
^should  themselves  kill  what  they 
wish  to  eat,'  were  always  followed, 
the  question  would  to  most  take  on 
a  different  aspect.  Few  can  endure 
unmoved  the  horrible  sights  of  the 
slaughter-house ;  far  less  could  they 
participate  in  the  slaughter." 


SALADS 


A  HERE  is  no  end  to  the  combinations  of  vegetables  for 
salads;  the  few  here  given  are  the  best  ones  I  have  tried. 
The  dressing  should  never  be  put  on  a  fresh  green  salad 
until  just  as  it  is  to  be  used;  other  salads,  like  potato, 
beans,  etc.,  are  sometimes  improved  by  standing.  Lettuce 
for  salads  should  be  carefully  looked  over ;  and  clean,  inner 
leaves  not  washed  unless  they  are  muddy;  but  all  the 
leaves  used  which  are  washed  should  be  thoroughly  dried 
before  adding  the  dressing.  In  France  the  salad  basket 
is  one  of  the  most  used  kitchen  utensils,  and  the  salad 
leaves  after  washing  are  shaken  in  this  until  absolutely  dry. 
The  dressing  should  be  very  w^ell  mixed  with  the  vege- 
tables, and  a  Uttle  dry  salt  and  pepper  added  as  the  salad 
is  served. 

FRENCH   DRESSING 

An  absolute  rule  for  making  good  salad  dressing  is  an 
almost  impossible  thing,  as  this  seems  to  be  the  one  place 
in  cookery  where  it  is  not  only  allowable  but  commendable 
to  "guess"  at  proper  proportions.  The  following  is  as 
nearly  accurate  as  it  seems  well  to  be.  Put  1  scant  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  1  saltspoon  of  black  pepper  in  a  bowl,  and  stir 
into  them  with  a  wooden  fork,  very  slowly,  3  or  4  table- 
spoons of  fresh  oil,  and  then  add  half  as  much  or  less 
vinegar,  mixing  it  well  with  the  oil. 

17 


258  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


TARRAGON    VINEGAR 

Good  tarragon  vinegar  can  be  bought  in  any  city,  but  it 
is  so  easily  prepared  at  home  that  it  is  worth  doing.  Put  a 
handful  of  tarragon  in  a  quart  jar,  and  cover  with  cold  or 
heated  vinegar.  Seal  the  jar  and  set  it  in  a  dark  place  for 
a  month  or  so  before  using. 

Make  chervil  vinegar  in  the  same  way. 


PLAIN    MAYONNAISE   DRESSING 

Put  2  chilled  egg-yolks  in  a  cold  soup  plate,  and  stir  into 
them  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  \  teaspoon  of  mustard,  using 
a  silvered  spoon,  and  after  these  are  well  mixed  in  begin 
to  add  oil,  actually  drop  by  drop,  from  1  scant  cup  of  cool 
olive  oil,  and  do  this  until  the  eggs  are  so  thickened  that  it 
is  not  possible  to  make  them  more  so ;  then  the  remaining 
oil  may  be  added  less  slowly.  If  this  first  process  is  not 
properly  done,  no  amount  of  stirring  will  ever  thicken  the 
sauce.  A  fork  or  whisk  may  be  used  to  finish  the  stirring. 
When  the  oil  is  added,  beat  in  slowly  1  tablespoon  of 
vinegar,  and  1  of  lemon  juice,  and  \  saltspoon  of  cayenne 
pepper.    Put  on  the  ice  until  wanted. 

Tarragon  mayonnaise  is  made  by  substituting  tarragon 
vinegar  for  plain  vinegar. 


GREEN  COLOURING  FOR  MAYONNAISE 

This  may  be  made  of  mixed  herbs  or  spinach.  If  herbs 
are  used  take  1  tablespoon  of  parsley,  1  of  watercress,  and 
1  of  chervil,  put  them  into  boiling  water,  let  them  cook 
eight  minutes,  then  drain  and  pound  in  a  mortar,  and 


Salads 


259 


press  the  pulp  through  a  fine  sieve.    Use  this  with  mayon- 
naise to  make  a  light  delicate  green  colour. 

If   spinach   is    used   press    1    tablespoon    of    chopped 
spinach  through  a  sieve,  and  use  it  to  colour  the  sauce. 


SALAD    CHEESE   BALLS 


Use  equal  quantities  of  Neufchatel  cheese  and  grated 
American  (or  Parmesan)  cheese,  sprinkle  with  cayenne, 
and  dampen  with  a  little  melted  butter.  Shape  into  tiny 
balls  and  use  very  cold  as  a  salad  garnish. 


AMERICAN    SALAD 

Use  1  cup  of  scraped  thinly  sliced  celery,  1  cup  of  diced 
apples,  \  cup  of  chopped  English  walnuts,  and  \  cup  of 
seeded  white  grapes.  Mix  well  with  mayonnaise,  and 
serve  on  large  curled  lettuce  leaves. 


ARTICHOKE   SALAD 

Use  cold  boiled  fresh  artichokes,  remove  the  thistles,  and 
fill  the  artichokes  with  finely  minced  chopped  onion,  apple, 
and  beet,  blended  with  green  mayonnaise;  serve  extra 
mayonnaise  in  which  to  dip  the  artichoke  leaves. 

GREEN   BEAN    SALAD 

Put  a  can  of  good  "stringless"  beans  on  the  ice  an  hour 
before  wanted,  open,  drain,  and  arrange  in  a  salad  bowl 
with  2  teaspoons  of  grated  or  finely  chopped  onion  and  1 
cup  of  French  dressing.    Serve  ice-cold. 


2  6o  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


WAX    BEAN    SALAD 

Make  like  the  preceding,  using  1  tablespoon  of  chopped 
chives  or  shallots,  or  green  onion  tops  instead  of  chopped 
onion. 

BEET  SALAD  WITH  CELERY 

Cut  boiled  beets  in  thin  slices  and  use  a  vegetable  cutter 
to  cut  them  into  fancy  shapes.  ]Mix  1  cup  of  beets  with 
1  cup  of  thinly  sliced  celery,  cover  well  with  mayonnaise, 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

CABBAGE    SALAD 

SUce  firm  white  cabbage  as  thin  as  possible,  then  cut  it 
across,  mix  it  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  sen'e  on 
small  white  cabbage  leaves. 

CELERY   AND    PINEAPPLE    SALAD 

Use  equal  parts  of  thin  strips  of  celery  and  shredded 
pineapple.  Select  a  perfectly  ripe  pineapple.  Put  the 
celery  and  pineapple  each  by  itself,  and  place  on  the  ice. 
Wlien  time  to  serve  mix  them  together  with  mayonnaise, 
garnish  with  celery  leaves,  and  serve  at  once. 

CHERRY    SALAD 

"When  fresh  cherries  are  available  they  are  best,  but 
the  large  cherries  in  glass  bottles  are  also  suitable.  Re- 
move the  stones  from  fresh  cherries,  and  in  their  places 
put  blanched  filberts  or  hazelnuts.  Put  on  curled  lettuce 
leaves  with  a  tablespoon  of  green  mayonnaise  on  each. 


Salads  261 


CUCUMBER   SALAD 

Soak  2  impeded  cucumbers  in  ice-cold  water  for  twenty 
minutes  or  more,  then  peel  and  use  a  patent  scraper  on 
the  sides  to  serrate  the  edges,  or  do  this  by  drawing  a 
silver  fork  firmly  down  the  length  of  the  cucumber ;  this 
will  make  the  slices  have  fancy  edges.  Slice,  and  arrange 
with  small  white  lettuce  leaves  in  a  salad  bowl.  Cover 
with  French  dressing  and  add  a  sprinkling  of  paprika  to 
the  salad  itself  before  serving.  Some  sliced  radishes  may 
be  added  if  liked. 


COUNTRY   SALAD 

Use  1  cup  each  of  finely  sHced  firm  white  cabbage,  diced 
celery,  and  chopped  apple ;  mix  them  well  with  mayonnaise 
dressing,  and  serve  in  the  inner  leaves  from  the  cabbage. 


RUSSIAN    CUCUMBER    SALAD 

Prepare  like  plain  cucumber  salad,  but  put  with  the 
sliced  cucumbers  1  small  onion  sliced  thin,  with  the  slices 
separated  into  rings.  One  tablespoon  of  chives  may  be 
added,  or  more  chives  used  and  the  onion  slices  omitted. 


DENT   DE    LION    SALAD 

Take  vouns:  dandelion  leaves,  trim  off  all  the  stem  below 
the  leaf,  and  mix  with  a  French  dressing  to  which  has  been 
added  onion  juice  or  chopped  chives ;  use  1  tablespoon  of 
either  to  each  cup  of  dressing.  Hard-boiled  eggs,  sHced 
or  chopped,  are  sometimes  used  to  garnish  this  salad. 


262  Golden   Rule   Cook -Book 


PINK   EGG   SALAD 

Boil  6  or  8  eggs  for  ten  minutes,  put  in  cold  water  for 
two  or  three  minutes,  then  peel  and  put  in  a  jar  of  pickled 
beets,  well  covered  with  vinegar.  Let  them  stand  a  few 
hours  and  serve  with  the  beets. 


ENDIVE   SALAD 

Wash  heads  of  endive  and  use  the  crisp,  white,  light 
leaves.  Shake  dry  and  cover  with  French  dressing.  Add 
1  teaspoon  of  minced  onion  before  dressing. 


FETTICUS    OR   CORN   SALAD 

Wash  2  cups  of  fetticus  and  dry  the  leaves  well,  then 
cover  with  French  dressing,  and  add  1  teaspoon  of  grated 
onion. 

GARDEN    SALAD 

Take  a  handful  of  sorrel,  2  sprigs  of  chervil,  4  leaves  of 
tarragon  (or  use  tarragon  vinegar),  1  teaspoon  of  chopped 
chives,  and  the  small  leaves  from  the  heart  of  a  head 
lettuce.    Blend  all  well  with  French  dressing. 


GRAPE-FRUIT    SALAD 

Wash  and  shake  dry  the  fine  leaves  from  a  head  lettuce, 
and  arrange  with  them  in  layers  very  thin  slices  of  grape- 
fruit;  mix  well  with  French  dressing  before  serving. 


Salads  263 


ITALIAN    SALAD 

Having  prepared  2  nice  heads  of  head  lettuce,  arrange 
them  in  the  salad  bowl  with  2  seedless  oranges  which  have 
been  neatly  peeled,  and  cut  into  thin  slices  with  a  very 
sharp  knife.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  then  mix 
thoroughly  with  French  dressing.  The  oranges  and  let- 
tuce should  have  been  chilled  so  that  the  salad  will  be 
very  cold. 

LETTUCE   SALAD 

Pull  apart  a  fresh  head  lettuce,  breaking  the  leaves 
neatly  from  the  stalk,  and  wash  those  that  need  it  and 
shake  them  dry.  Put  in  a  salad  bowl  with  French  dressing 
or  sauce  vinaigrette,  and  mix  well  together  before  serving. 

MACEDOINE   SALAD 

Open  a  glass  or  can  of  imported  macedoine  of  vege- 
tables, drain,  and  cover  with  French  dressing.  Arrange 
with  lettuce  leaves  in  a  bowl  or  on  separate  plates.  Fresh- 
ness can  be  added  by  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  chives,  or 
shallots,  or  parsley. 

SPECIAL   MIXED    SALAD 

Use  1  cup  of  chopped  tomato,  1  cup  of  chopped  cucum- 
ber, \  cup  of  thinly  sliced  radishes,  \  cup  of  chopped  apple, 
and  2  tablespoons  of  the  German  pearl  pickled  onions. 
Mix  all  together  with  1  cup  of  mayonnaise,  and  arrange 
in  a  salad  bowl  with  lettuce  leaves,  which  should  be  used 
to  hold  the  salad  in  serving. 


264  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


MUSHROOM    SALAD 

Select  fresh,  firm  nmshroonis  that  are  small,  wash  them 
carefully  without  peeling,  and  stir  them  in  French  dressing 
that  contains  rather  more  oil  than  usual.  Put  1  crisp  let- 
tuce leaf  on  each  plate,  fill  it  with  the  mushrooms,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  a  Uttle  paprika,  and  serve  very  cold. 


NARRAGANSETT    SALAD 

Wash  and  shake  dry  the  fine  white  centre  of  endive  or 
chicory,  and  arrange  with  it  quartered  tomatoes  from 
which  the  skin  has  been  removed ;  serve  with  a  French 
dressing  to  which  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  J  tea- 
spoon of  chopped  onion,  and  1  finely  chopped  egg  has  been 
added. 

PHILADELPHIA    SALAD 

Select  laige  tomatoes,  remove  the  skins  by  putting  in 
boiling  water,  cut  out  the  inside,  and  refill  with  finely 
chopped  pineapple,  celery,  and  apple  in  equal  proportions, 
all  well  blended  with  plain  mayonnaise.  Serve  on  let- 
tuce leaves  on  separate  plates,  or  use  watercress  instead 
of  lettuce. 


PIMENTO    SALAD   WITH    CHEESE   BALLS 

]Mix  2  Xeufchatel  cheeses  with  1  cup  of  grated  cheese, 
and  when  creamed  together  add  6  oHves  stoned  and 
chop{>ed  fine  and  1  teaspoon  of  chopj>ed  pimento:  season 
generously  with  salt  and  pepper,  moisten  with  cream,,  and 


Salads  263 

mould  into  balls  an  inch  and  a  quarter  through.  Pimolas 
(which  are  oHves  stuffed  with  pimentos)  can  of  course  be 
used  if  more  convenient,  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  ex- 
tract or  a  very  little  onion  juice  adds  piquancy  to  the 
cheese  balls.  Take  lettuce  which  has  been  in  cold  water 
and  is  therefore  crisp,  shake  it  dry,  and  arrange  with  it 
pimentos  cut  in  long  half-inch  strips,  ttiit  thoroughly  with 
a  French  dressing,  and  garnish  with  the  cheese  balls. 


POLISH    SALAD 

Use  boiled  beets,  sUced  and  mixed  with  French  dressing, 
and  over  all  sprinkle  chopped  white  of  hard-boiled  ^'y^. 

A  Httle  grated  horse-radish  is  sometimes  used  with  good 
effect  in  beet  salad. 


GERMAN    POTATO    SALAD 

Boil  6  medium-sized  potatoes,  and  after  draining  shake 
them  over  the  fire  a  moment  or  two  to  dry :  then  peel  and 
sHce  while  warm,  and  cover  at  once  with  a  dressing  made 
of  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of  black  pepper,  1  table- 
spoon of  chopped  parsley,  1  chopped  onion.  0  tablespoons 
of  oil.  and  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar.  ]\Iix  and  let  stand  on 
ice  for  an  hour  or  so,  then  put  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves  in 
a  salad  bowl,  and  garnish  with  chopped  boiled  or  pickled 
beets. 

AMERICAN   POTATO    SALAD 

!Mix  cold  sliced  boiled  potatoes  with  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing and  add  1  tablespoon  of  capers. 


2  66  G:/.;^';    Rule   Cook-Book 


RED    POTATO    SALAD 

Use  equal  quantities  of  boiled  beets  (canned  ones  are 
convenieiit)  and  boiled  potatoes.  Dice  botb  and  mix  well 
together,  adding  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar.  Let  stand  until 
the  potatoes  are  reddened,  then  add  1  tablespK>on  of  grated 
onion,  Tnirr  well  with  French  dressing,  and  garnish  with 
sii<3es  of  hard-boiled  ^2,-  Place  in  a  salad  bowl,  with 
%ai  white  cabbage  or  crisp  lettuce  leares. 


ROMAINE   SALAD 

Pick  over  crisp  heads  of  romaine,  let  stand  a  few 
minutes  in  cold  water,  then  shake  until  dry,  and  serve 
with  French  dressing  to  which  grated  onion  is  added, 
using  1  tea^Mon  of  it  to  each  cup  of  dressing. 


SOUTHERN   SALAD 

To  2  cups  of  cold  boiled  rice  add  2  chopped  hard-boiled 
eggs  and  blend  well  with  mayonnaise.  Arrange  on  crisp 
lettuce  leaves  with  a  garnish  of  egg  sUces,  and  beet,  and 
sliced  oliTcs- 

SORREL    SALAD 

A  refreshing  salad  may  be  made  from  the  sorrel  found 
growing  wild.  Wash  it  well,  cut  the  stalks  off,  and  dredge 
with  salt,  pepper,  celery  salt,  and  then  mix  with  oil,  and 
sprinkle  well  with  tarragon  vinegar  and  a  httle  grated 
onion. 


Salads  26" 


SPANISH    SALAD 

Remove  the  skins  from  large,  solid  tomatoes  and  1  small 
cucumber,  take  the  seeds  from  1  small  sweet  green  pepper, 
pare  1  small  Spanish  onion,  and  cut  all  in  slices,  making 
the  peppers  extremely  thin.  Mix  with  1  tablespoon  of 
chopped  nasturtium  leaves  or  stems  or  seeds,  and  cover 
with  French  dressing,  mixing  well.  Let  stand  on  ice  an 
hour  before  serving.     Serve  with  cheese  balls. 


SUNDAY-NIGHT    SALAD 

Wash  1  large  head  of  crisp  head  lettuce,  separate  the 
leaves,  rejecting  all  but  perfect  ones,  and  shake  them  dry. 
Put  them  in  a  large  salad  bowl,  and  with  them  put  1  or.: on 
chopped  very  fine,  o  sliced  tomatoes,  and  the  leaves  from 
3  or  4  sprigs  of  watercress.  At  the  table  dredge  the  salad 
generously  with  salt,  and  sprinkle  with  black  pepper, 
covering  the  entire  surface :  then  pour  from  an  oil  bottle  3 
or  4  tablespoons  of  oil  over  the  vegetables  slowly,  and 
follow  this  with  about  "2  tablespoons  of  vinegar:  add  1 
tablespoon  of  tarragon  vinegar,  then  dredge  with  celery 
salt,  and  add  a  httle  cayenne,  and  mix  all  together  with  a 
wooden  fork  and  spoon,  turning  the  whole  mass  over 
and  over  ten  or  more  times.  The  bowl  may  be  well 
rubbed  with  garUc  and  the  onion  omitted. 


RUSSIAN   TOMATO    SALAD 

Slice  5  or  6  very  small  tomatoes,  and  put  with  them  ^2 
onions  sliced  and  divided  into  rings.    Cover  with  French 

dressinc;. 


2  68  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 


SLICED    TOMATO   WITH   CHIVES 

Slice  4  tomatoes,  put  with  them  3  tablespoons  of  chopped 
chives,  and  cover  with  French  dressing.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves. 

WALDORF   SALAD 

Use  1  cup  of  shelled  walnuts,  broken  or  chopped,  1  cup 
of  diced  tart  apple,  1  cup  of  crisp  celery  cut  in  small  pieces, 
and  mix  well  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  on  curly 
lettuce  leaves. 


WATERCRESS  SALAD  WITH  ORANGES 

Cut  two  inches  off  the  bottom  of  a  bunch  of  watercress 
with  a  sharp  knife,  wash  the  cress  thoroughly  in  ice-cold 
water,  drain,  and  arrange  in  a  salad  bowl  with  3  seedless 
oranges  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  mix  all  together  with  a  dress- 
ing made  of  1  tablespoon  each  of  tarragon  vinegar,  olive 
oil,  and  brandy;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
serve  very  cold. 

Grape  fruit  can  be  substituted  for  the  orange,  or  equal 
amounts  of  orange  and  grape  fruit  used. 

YOKOHAMA   SALAD 

Cut  into  small  cubes  2  fresh  cucumbers  that  have  been 
on  ice  until  chilled  and  then  peeled,  and  put  with  them  1 
diced  sour  apple,  1  tablespoon  of  shredded  pimentos,  1 
small  bunch  of  watercress  (using  the  leaves  only),  and  2 
tablespoons  of  chopped  mint  leaves.  Mix  with  French 
dressing  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 


Salads  269 


A  SALAD  SUPPER 

Use  large  dinner  plates,  and  on  each  arrange  6  of  the 
large  light  green  leaves  from  the  inner  part  of  head  lettuce, 
putting  5  of  them  with  the  stalk-end  toward  the  centre 
of  the  plate,  and  another  small  one  in  the  centre.  Fill  the 
centre  leaf  with  radishes  (cut  like  roses)  and  olives,  and 
fill  the  others  as  follows :  In  one  put  2  tablespoons  of 
canned  green  beans,  well  mixed,  before  putting  on  the  leaf, 
with  a  little  grated  onion  and  French  dressing,  on  the 
second  put  3  or  4  slices  of  tomato  and  2  teaspoons  of  may- 
onnaise, on  the  third  arrange  3  stalks  of  canned  asparagus 
(white  preferred)  dipped  in  French  dressing  and  sprinkled 
with  chopped  chives,  on  the  fourth  put  2  half-lengths  of 
a  quartered  cucumber  to  be  dipped  in  salt  in  eating,  and 
on  the  fifth  put  1  tablespoon  of  tiny  German  pearl  onions, 
2  pickled  walnuts,  and  2  gherkins.  Serve  nut  or  plain 
bread,  or  creamed  cheese  sandwiches,  or  all  three.  This 
supper  may  be  varied  in  many  ways ;  one  is  to  use  potato 
salad  or  beet  and  egg  instead  of  the  beans.  This  as  it 
stands  was  the  result  of  an  emergency  when  six  persons 
were  suddenly  to  be  served  to  a  late  supper  and  no  prep- 
aration made.  A  well-stocked  store-room  of  preserved 
goods  and  a  small  kitchen  garden  filled  the  need. 


^0  flocks  that  range  the  valley  free. 

To  slaughter  I  condemn; 
Taught  by  the  power  that  pities  me, 

I  learn  to  pity  them. 

Oliver  Goldsmith. 


SAVOURIES 


A  HE  savoury  begins  a  meal  well,  and  is  a  convenient 
dainty  for  late  suppers.  The  variety  is  practically  endless, 
and  those  given  here  may  be  altered  and  added  to  indefi- 
nitely. 

FRESH   MUSHROOM   "COCKTAILS" 

Put  a  small  handleless  cup  or  glass  in  the  centre  of  a 

f)late  and  encircle  it  with  6  of  the  smallest  white  leaves  of 
ettuce.  On  each  leaf  place  2  small  white  firm  button 
mushrooms,  which  have  been  freshly  gathered  and  care- 
fully washed  but  not  peeled.  Fill  the  cocktail  glass  three 
quarters  full  of  sauce  made  of  J  cup  of  tomato  chutney, 
1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  2  drops  of  tabasco  (more  if 
liked  very  hot),  and  ^  teaspoon  of  salt.  Set  the  plates 
in  the  refrigerator  for  half  an  hour.  Deliciously  prepared 
"Cocktail"  sauce  can  be  purchased  in  bottles. 

CANNED  MUSHROOM  "COCKTAILS" 

In  each  cocktail  glass  put  8  or  10  button  mushrooms, 
and  cover  them  well  with  the  cocktail  sauce.  Or  use 
canned  cepes  and  serve  in  green  pepper  cases. 

PIMENTO    "COCKTAILS" 

Cut  squares,  an  inch  across,  from  sweet  pimentos 
(canned),  and  put  8  or  10  of  these  in  each  glass;  cover 
well  with  cocktail  sauce  and  serve  ice-cold,  with  celery. 

18 


2  74  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


BEET    SAVOURY 

Use  1  large  pickled  beet  and  arrange  neat  slices  on 
squares  of  bread;  in  the  centre  of  the  beet  put  a  ring  of 
hard-boiled  sliced  egg,  filled  with  the  riced  egg-yolk,  and 
fill  each  corner  with  chopped  chives. 


BEET   AND    EGG   SAVOURY 

Chop  equal  parts  of  pickled  beet  and  the  whites  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs  together,  and  arrange  on  toast  or  bread  with 
the  riced  yolks  of  the  eggs,  mixed  with  a  little  chopped 
chives  or  parsley,  in  a  cone  on  the  centre.    Season  well. 


BROWN-BREAD    SAVOURY 

Cut  brown  bread  into  shapes,  spread  with  butter,  then 
heavily  with  cream  cheese  containing  some  salt,  and  cross 
two  evenly  cut  strips  of  pimento  on  each  piece  of  bread 
thus  prepared.  At  the  juncture  of  the  strips  of  pimento 
place  a  slice  of  pimola,  and  put  one  in  each  space  on  the 
cheese.  Sprinkle  with  paprika,  and  put  a  few  capers  here 
and  there. 

CUCUMBER    SAVOURY 

Cut  bread  in  rounds  and  arrange  on  it  neat  slices  of 
cucumber,  the  edges  serrated  before  slicing  by  drawing  a 
silver  fork  lengthwise  of  the  cucumber.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  paprika,  and  on  each  slice  put  a  ring  from  a  small 
sliced  onion,  or  arrange  instead  the  tiny  German  pearl 
pickled  onions  between  the  slices  of  cucumber.    Sprinkle 


Savouries  275 


a  little  lemon  juice  over  to  serve.  A  variation  is  made 
by  using  chopped  chives  only,  or  each  ring  of  onion  may 
be  filled  with  them. 


CREOLE   SAVOURY 

Toast  one  side  of  shaped  pieces  of  bread,  and  butter  the 
untoasted  side,  and  on  it  spread  a  layer  of  chopped  tomato 
mixed  with  half  as  much  chopped  green  pepper  and  some 
salt.  Put  in  the  oven  or  under  the  gas  flame  for  five 
minutes,  and  upon  removing  arrange  a  cone  of  finely 
chopped  onion  in  the  centre  of  each. 


EGG   SAVOURY 

Use  fresh  bread  slightly  toasted  or  less  soft  bread  with- 
out toasting.  Cut  in  squares,  diamonds,  or  rounds,  and 
sprinkle  with  Worcestershire  sauce,  or  any  good  sauce,  then 
cover  neatly  with  the  chopped  whites  of  hard-boiled,  well- 
salted  eggs,  on  which  arrange  a  centre  of  the  riced  yolks. 
Put  a  round  slice  from  a  black  pickled  walnut  on  each 
corner,  dot  with  capers,  and  sprinkle  with  paprika. 


HORSE-RADISH   SAVOURY 

Spread  oblong  pieces  of  bread  thinly  with  mustard, 
cover  with  a  layer  of  chopped  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs 
mixed  with  a  little  grated  horse-radish,  arrange  capers  in 
strips  crosswise  of  the  bread,  and  between  these  sprinkle 
the  hard-boiled  yolks  of  the  eggs  which  have  been  riced 
or  pressed  through  a  sieve.  At  the  corners  and  in  the 
centre  place  thin  slices  of  gherkins. 


276  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 


MUSTARD    SAVOURY 

Cut  shaped  pieces  of  bread  and  spread  with  made 
mustard.  Cover  them  with  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs 
mixed  with  a  Uttle  chopped  chives.  Arrange  capers  in 
lines  or  any  pattern  on  this.    Season  well. 

NEUFCHATEL   SAVOURY 

Mix  Neufchatel  cheese  with  J  as  much  butter  and  rub  to 
a  cream,  and  then  squeeze  through  a  tube  onto  salted, 
hot  crackers,  forming  star-like  rosettes.  Sprinkle  with 
paprika,  garnish  with  capers. 

ONION   SAVOURY 

Use  shaped  pieces  of  bread  and  spread  thinly  with 
butter,  then  arrange  a  quarter-inch  layer  of  finely  minced 
Spanish  onion  mixed  with  chopped  parsley  and  slightly 
dampened  with  tomato  sauce;  put  in  the  centre  of  each 
the  ring  of  a  slice  of  hard-boiled  egg,  with  a  slice  of  pickled 
walnut  fitted  into  it. 

PICKLE   SAVOURY 

Spread  any  savoury  sauce  and  then  cream  cheese  on 
oblong  pieces  of  bread,  and  arrange  on  this  thin  slices  of 
small  sour  pickles  in  a  neat  row,  lengthwise.  Sprinkle 
with  paprika. 

STUFFED    OLIVE   SAVOURY 

Arrange  on  squares  of  bread  spread  with  tomato  or  any 
tart  sauce  strips  of  riced  yolk  of  hard-boiled  egg;  form 


Savouries  277 

squares  by  placing  them  both  ways  of  the  bread,  and  in 
each  put  a  ring  of  the  white  of  hard-boiled  ^g^^  sliced,  and 
fill  the  centre  with  a  slice  of  pimola  or  any  other  stuffed 
olive. 

CAPER   SAVOURY 

Make  same  as  the  above  using  capers  to  fill  the  egg  rings. 

TOMATO    MAYONNAISE   SAVOURY 

Chop  tomatoes  and  mix  with  them  a  thick  mayonnaise, 
either  plain  or  flavoured  with  herbs.  Spread  on  shaped 
pieces  of  bread,  and  garnish  with  thin  rings  sliced  from 
green  peppers. 

TOMATO   SAVOURY 

Cut  rounds  of  bread  the  size  of  the  tomatoes  to  be  used 
and  toast  one  side ;  then  butter  the  other  side  and  arrange 
on  each  a  slice  of  tomato,  dredge  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
dry  mustard,  sprinkle  with  mushroom  catsup  or  walnut 
catsup,  and  set  under  the  burners  of  a  gas  stove  for  five 
minutes  or  until  heated  but  not  softened.  Garnish  with 
watercress  to  serve. 

LIPTAUER   SAVOURY 

Spread  shaped  pieces  of  bread  with  "Liptauer  cheese" 
and  garnish  with  slices  of  pickle. 

SWEET   PIMENTO   SAVOURY 

Toast  fresh  bread  slightly,  cut  into  shapes  and  butter 
one  side,  and  on  this  arrange  a  trimmed  piece  of  canned 
Spanish  pimento  sprinkled  with  celery  salt,  and  set  under 
the  gas  flame  of  a  gas  stove  for  five  minutes  to  heat. 


278  Golden  Rule  Cook- Book 


ROUNDS    OF   TOAST 

To  make  rounds  of  bread  or  toast  take  an  empty  tin 
the  size  required  and  press  it  j&rmly  into  a  slice  of  bread, 
thus  cutting  the  round  evenly  and  neatly. 

Cutters  for  cutting  vegetables  into  fancy  shapes  are 
convenient  for  savouries. 


L/NE  farmer  said  to  me,  "  Tou  can- 
not live  on  vegetable  food,  for  it  fur- 
nishes nothing  to  make  hones  with;'* 
and  so  he  religiously  devotes  a  part 
of  his  day  to  supplying  his  system 
with  the  raw  material  of  hones,  walk- 
ing all  the  while  he  talks,  hehind  his 
oxen,  who,  with  vegetable  made  hones, 
jerk  him  and  his  lumbering  plow 
along  in  spite  of  obstacles. 

I  have  found  repeatedly  of  late  years 
that  I  cannot  fish  without  falling  a 
little  in  self-respect. 

Henry  David  Thoreau. 


SANDWICHES 


X  HE  recipes  given  under  Savouries  can  also  be  used  in 
making  sandwiches,  and  originality  can  have  full  play  here 
as  in  the  making  of  dainty  and  appetising  savouries. 

SAVOURY  BUTTER  SANDWICHES 

Use  unsalted  or  slightly  salted  butter,  and  with  a  silver 
knife  press  into  it  any  flavour  desired,  —  onion  juice,  pap- 
rika, various  sauces,  chopped  peppers,  or  capers,  —  using 
1  teaspoon  of  minced  herbs,  etc.,  to  each  tablespoon  of 
butter.     Spread  in  sandwiches. 

PROVIDENCE  HOUSE   CLUB   SANDWICHES 

Cut  fresh  bread  in  medium  thick  slices,  trim  the  four 
edges,  and  butter  it  with  butter  somewhat  softened  by 
warmth.  On  one  side  of  two  slices  which  belong  next  to 
each  other  put  thinly  sliced  peeled  tomatoes,  filling  in 
bits  to  cover  the  bread  neatly.  Press  4  or  5  slices  cut  from 
pickled  walnuts  into  the  juicy  parts  of  the  tomatoes,  lay 
6  or  7  capers  also  in,  and  use  half  a  teaspoon  of  the  tiny 
German  pearl  onion  pickles  to  each  sandwich.  Sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  celery  salt,  and  spread  with  mayon- 
naise. Press  the  other  piece  of  bread  firmly  on,  and  wrap 
in  waxed  paper  for  picnics. 

Vary  with  chopped  chives,  tarragon  leaves,  French 
dressing,  etc. 


282  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 


APPLE   SANDWICHES 

Arrange  thinly  sliced,  cored  apples  between  layers  of 
buttered  bread  from  which  the  crust  has  been  cut. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  spread  with  mayonnaise,  into  which 
a  few  chopped  nuts  have  been  mixed. 

CREOLE   SANDWICHES 

Trim  and  butter  squares  of  bread  and  fit  to  them 
thinly  sliced  tomatoes,  and  spread  with  thin  mustard; 
slice  green  peppers  very  thin,  and  arrange  sections  of  the 
rings  here  and  there  over  the  tomatoes.  Use  a  little 
minced  chives  or  shallot,  or  onions,  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  lemon  juice  or  some  sauce. 

BOMBAY    SANDWICHES 

Spread  squares  of  bread  with  curry  paste,  and  cover  with 
chopped  tomato  to  which  is  added  a  little  chopped  onion 
and  the  same  amount  of  chopped  sour  apples.  Season 
with  salt. 

PEANUT-BUTTER    SANDWICHES 

Spread  small  oblong  pieces  of  bread,  from  which  the 
crust  is  cut,  with  peanut  butter  blended  with  cream,  and 
press  firmly  together. 

EGG   SANDWICHES 

Break  2  eggs  into  a  frying  pan  containing  a  little  melted 
butter  and  let  them  spread,  breaking  the  yolk  with  a  spoon 
after  they  are  in  the  pan ;  let  them  fry  until  the  edges  begin 


Sandwiches  283 


to  brown,  then  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  sprinkle 
with  chopped  chives.  Cut  pieces  out  to  fit  the  bread 
slices  to  be  used,  and,  after  trimming  and  buttering  the 
bread,  arrange  them  on  one  side  of  the  sandwich.  Use 
with  no  other  flavouring,  or  sprinkle  with  Worcestershire 
sauce,  or  spread  with  mustard.  Wrap  in  waxed  paper  for 
picnics. 

NUT   SANDWICHES 

Mix  chopped  nuts  in  thick  cream  or  mayonnaise,  and 
spread  between  slices  of  bread,  either  with  or  without  a 
lettuce  leaf.    Sprinkle  with  cayenne. 


LETTUCE   SANDWICHES 

Spread  oblong  slices  of  trimmed  bread  with  butter,  lay 
a  lettuce  leaf  between,  trimmed  to  size,  and  spread  with 
plain  or  green  mayonnaise. 


PIMOLA   SANDWICHES 

Butter  small  squares  of  bread  and  arrange  on  them 
sliced  pimolas  or  any  stuffed  olives,  sprinkle  with  lemon 
juice,  or  spread  with  mayonnaise. 


PICKLE   SANDWICHES 

Slice  large  pickles  and  arrange  them  between  buttered 
bread  slices.  If  German  Dill  pickles  are  used  and  Ger- 
man flavours  liked  sprinkle  with  caraway  seeds,  and  use 
rye  bread. 


284  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


CHEESE   SANDWICHES 

Cut  American  or  Swiss  cheese  very  thin,  spread  with 
mustard,  and  place  a  piece,  trimmed  to  the  size  of  the 
bread  used,  between  two  pieces  of  buttered  white  or  rye 
bread. 

GERMAN   SANDWICHES 

Use  rye  or  "black"  bread,  with  caraway  seeds  baked 
in  it,  spread  the  two  slices  with  unsalted  butter,  and  on 
one  arrange  thin  slices  of  Swiss  cheese ;  spread  this  with 
German  or  French  mustard,  and  arrange  on  it  2  or  3 
slices  of  Dill  pickles. 


HONOLULU   SANDWICHES 

Pare  and  core  3  apples,  stem  and  seed  2  sweet  green 
peppers,  and  put  them  through  a  vegetable  mill.  Mix 
them  into  2  Neufchatel  cheeses,  and  use  as  filling  for 
brown  or  white  bread  sandwiches. 


11  E  prayeth  well  who  loveth  well 
Both  man  and  bird  and  beast; 
He  prayeth  best  who  loveth  best 
All  things  both  great  and  small; 
For  the  dear  God  who  loveth  us. 
He  made  and  loveth  all. 

Coleridge. 


PASTRY,   PATTY  CASES,   Etc. 


PIE-CRUST 

J^HORTENED  pie-crust  is  made  by  using  for  one  pie 
§  of  a  cup  of  flour,  with  J  of  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 
and  J  of  a  teaspoon  of  salt  in  it.  Sift  this  onto  J  a  cup  of 
cocoanut  butter  or  ^  a  cup  of  butter,  or  these  two  in  equal 
proportions,  dampen  with  ice- water,  and  roll  out  five  or  six 
times.    Keep  ice-cold  until  used. 


EASY   PUFF   PASTE 

Use  a  chopping  bowl  for  mixing  the  paste,  and  into  it 
put  4  cups  of  flour  (sifted),  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  1 
teaspoon  of  salt,  adding  it  a  spoonful  at  a  time.  Use  2 
cups  of  butter,  chopping  it  into  the  flour  until  it  is  as  fine 
as  possible.  Beat  2  eggs  for  five  minutes  and  add  to 
them  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  J  cup  of  very  cold  water, 
and  stir  this  gradually  into  the  paste.  When  mixed  lift 
the  paste  to  a  well-floured  pastry  board,  roll  it  into  a 
rectangular  shape,  fold  it  over  onto  itself  from  the  four 
sides,  then  roll  again,  and  repeat  this  process  four  times. 
Now  fold  into  a  thin  piece  of  linen,  and  place  on  a  plate 
near  the  ice  in  the  refrigerator,  and  let  it  stand  half  an 
hour  or  more.  Roll  out  again  and  use  for  patties,  or  pie- 
crust. 


2  88  Golden   Rule   Cook -Book 


TIMBALE   CASES 

Make  a  batter  of  J  of  a  cup  of  flour,  \  cup  of  milk  in 
which  1  egg  has  been  beaten,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  1  salt- 
spoon  of  salt,  and  at  the  very  last  add  1  tablespoon  of 
olive  oil.  Dip  the  timbale  iron  in  the  batter,  then  in  hot 
vegetable  fat,  taking  care  it  does  not  touch  the  bottom  of 
the  pan.  When  a  golden  brown  remove  and  place  on 
paper  to  drain,  and  proceed  thus  until  a  sufficient  number 
has  been  made.  Fill  with  chestnuts,  mushrooms,  etc.,  in 
sauce,  and  reheat  in  the  oven  after  filling. 


BATTER   FOR   FRITTERS 

Make  as  for  timbale  cases  and  dip  the  vegetables  or 
fruit  to  be  fried  in  it,  and  fry  until  golden  brown  in  hot  fat. 


PASTRY   FOR   PATTY   PANS   OR   CASES 

Instead  of  frying-batter  for  timbale  cases  a  paste  can  be 
made  with  1^  cups  of  flour,  1  egg-yolk,  and  3  tablespoons 
of  butter  well-mixed  and  dampened  to  the  proper  consist- 
ency by  using  perhaps  \  cup  of  cold  water.  Roll  out  very 
thin,  about  ^  of  an  inch,  and  press  into  the  small  pans  or 
moulds  after  buttering  them.  Trim  neatly,  and  press  a 
little  cup  of  buttered  tissue  paper  in  each,  fill  this  with  rice 
to  protect  the  inside  from  too  much  heat  and  to  keep  flat 
on  the  bottom,  and  bake  in  a  rather  slow  oven.  Do  not 
turn  out  until  cooled,  and  do  not  fill  until  wanted. 

Ordinary  pastry  may  be  used  also  to  line  moulds  for 
patty  cases,  timbales,  etc. 


Pastry^    Patty   Cases ^   Etc.  289 


POTATO    CRUST 

Boil  good-sized  potatoes  with  the  skins  on,  peel  while 
hot,  and  press  through  a  ricer  or  sieve,  mix  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  white  flour  or  whole  wheat  flour  and  a  little 
salt,  and  dampen  with  cream.  Press  together  and  roll  out 
for  top  crust  of  vegetable  pies. 


ESSEX   PASTRY 

Mix  equal  parts  of  mashed  potato  and  flour  pastry,  and 
use  baked  in  small  squares  as  a  garnish,  or  as  a  covering 
for  deep  vegetable  pie. 


DUMPLINGS 

Sift  2  cups  of  flour,  add  to  it  1  heaping  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder  and  ^  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  sift  again.  Stir 
into  this  1  scant  cup  of  milk,  or  just  enough  to  make  a 
dough  that  can  scarcely  be  handled  without  sticking  to 
the  fingers.  Drop  in  boiling  vegetable  stock  or  into  a  stew 
and  let  boil  rapidly  ten  minutes,  taking  great  care  not  to 
uncover  the  kettle  until  just  as  the  dumplings  are  removed. 
Serve  at  once  in  the  stew  or  with  brown  sauce. 


CROUTONS 

Cut  slices  \  of  an  inch  thick  of  stale  bread,  and  with  a 
knife  cut  across  both  ways  to  make  tiny  squares.  Dry  a 
few  moments,  then  toss  in  a  little  hot  butter  to  brown  and 
serve  warm. 

19 


290  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


BREAD   CRUMBS 

A  jar  of  bread  crumbs  should  always  be  kept  on  hand. 
Use  stale  bread,  break  it  into  bits,  and  brown  it  slightly  in 
the  oven.  Then  with  a  roller,  or  in  a  mortar,  crumble  it 
and  crush  it  to  powdered  crumbs.  If  a  jar  of  light  crumbs 
and  one  of  golden  brown  crumbs  are  kept  ready,  they  will 
be  found  most  convenient. 


^  SMALL  unkindness  is  a 
great  offence. 

Hannah  More. 


A   FEW    HOT   BREADS 


BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS 

L  AKE  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  sift  onto  them 
lightly  2  cups  of  flour  in  which  1  heaping  teaspoon  of 
baking  powder  is  mixed,  and  with  freshly  washed,  cool 
hands  mix  the  flour  and  butter  thoroughly  together,  then 
pour  on  slowly,  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon,  1  cup  of 
milk ;  with  most  flours  this  cup  of  milk  or  a  very  little  less 
will  make  the  biscuit  dough  of  the  proper  consistency,  but 
if  too  thin  or  too  thick,  judgment  must  be  used,  as  the 
dough  should  be  so  that  with  well-floured  hands  it  can 
scarcely  be  handled,  but  can  with  rapid  motions  be  made 
into  a  roll  which  will  keep  its  shape  when  put  on  a  well- 
floured  bread  board.  It  should  then  be  rolled  lightly  with 
a  roller  to  the  thickness  of  three  quarters  of  an  inch,  and 
with  a  biscuit  cutter,  the  edge  of  which  should  be  dipped 
in  flour  before  using,  cut  the  rounds  quickly  out  and  place 
them  at  once  in  a  shallow  buttered  pan  and  set  in  the 
oven.  They  should  be  properly  cooked  in  eighteen  or 
twenty  minutes.  The  smallest  sized  baking  powder  tin 
is  exactly  the  right  size  for  a  biscuit  cutter. 

This  same  recipe  makes  dumplings,  strawberry  short- 
cake, and  the  top  of  vegetable  pies. 

POP  OVERS 

Mix  1  saltspoon  of  salt  with  1  cup  of  flour,  and  add 
slowly  enough  from  1  cup  of  milk  to  just  make  a  smooth 


2  94  Golden   Rule  Cook-Bo  ok 


paste ;  stir  this  well,  then  add  the  remaining  milk  and  the 
beaten  yolk  of  1  ^gg,  and  then  the  white  whisked  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Put  the  batter  in  buttered  gem  pans  or  earthen- 
ware cups,  and  cook  in  the  oven  about  twenty-five  minutes, 
or  until  browned  and  standing  very  high.    Serve  at  once. 

GRAHAM   GEMS 

Mix  2  cups  of  whole  wheat  flour,  \  teaspoon  of  salt,  1 
tablespoon  of  sugar,  and  stir  onto  this  1  cup  of  milk  con- 
taining the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  then  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs,  and  put  in  hot  buttered  gem  pans. 
Bake  about  twenty-five  minutes. 

TENNESSEE   CORN  BREAD 

Beat  2  eggs  in  a  mixing  bowl,  add  1  heaping  teaspoon  of 
granulated  sugar,  and  1  cup  of  milk ;  mix  \  cup  of  white 
flour,  1  cup  of  yellow  corn  meal,  and  3  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  and  sift  these  into  the  milk,  stirring  constantly. 
The  batter  should  be  thin  enough  to  spread  readily  when 
poured  into  the  inch-deep  baking  pan.  Just  before  pour- 
ing in  the  batter  put  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  the  baking 
tin  and  when  it  melts,  stir  the  batter  into  it;  this  is  the 
secret  of  crisp  brown  bottom  crust  and  was  learned  from 
an  old  negro  cook.  Bake  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour 
or  until  tinged  with  brown. 

SOUTHERN   RICE   MUFFINS 

With  1  cup  of  boiled  rice  put  1  cup  of  milk,  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  \\  cups  of 
flour,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  J  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  1 


A  Few   Hot  Breads  295 

heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  After  mixing  well 
add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  pour  into  hot 
buttered  gem  pans,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  from  twenty 
to  twenty-five  minutes. 

RICE   GRIDDLECAKES 

Mix  well  together  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  milk,  J  teaspoon  of 
salt,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  and  1^  cups  of  boiled  rice.  Bake  on  a  hot 
buttered  griddle,  browning  both  sides. 

CORN   CAKES 

In  IJ  cups  of  sour  milk  put  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  1 
beaten  ^^^,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1 
scant  \  cup  of  white  flour,  and  thicken  with  enough  yellow 
corn  meal  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Fry  a  golden  brown  on 
a  hot  buttered  griddle. 

WHEAT   CAKES 

Beat  2  eggs  lightly  and  pour  over  them  2  cups  of  milk ; 
mix  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  with  2  cups  of  flour  and 
\  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  sift  lightly  into  the  milk,  stirring 
constantly.  Cook  in  small  pancakes  on  a  hot  buttered 
griddle. 

GINGERBREAD 

Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  lightly,  melt  \  cup  of  butter 
and  add  to  the  eggs,  then  stir  in  \  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon 
of  soda,  and  IJ  cups  of  dark  molasses.    Then  add  slowly 


296  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 

3  cups  of  sifted  flour  and  1  tablespoon  of  ginger,  and  after 
beating  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  stir  them  in 
with  a  fork.  Bake  in  an  inch-deep  baking  pan  in  a  slow 
oven  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

SUNDAY   MORNING  WAFFLES 

Beat  2  eggs  thoroughly,  and  add  to  them  2  cups  of  milk 
and  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  sift  into  the  milk  2  cups  of 
flour  containing  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
stirring  constantly.  Some  flour  thickens  more  than  others, 
and  if  more  must  be  added  sift  it  before  stirring  in.  The 
secret  of  the  excellence  of  waffles  is  not  getting  the  batter 
too  thick ;  it  must  spread  readily  when  put  upon  the  iron 
but  not  run.  Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  put  it  in  the 
batter  at  the  last  moment.  Butter  the  hot  waffle  iron, 
using  a  bristle  brush  an  inch  or  so  wide  for  the  purpose, 
over  half-fill  the  iron  with  batter  (using  a  large  spoon) ,  let 
one  side  brown,  and  then  turn,  to  brown  the  other.  Divide 
into  the  four  parts  indicated  by  the  iron  and  serve  with 
maple  syrup. 


\jrOD  made  all  the  creatures 
And  gave  them  our  love  and  our  fear. 
To  give  sign  that  we  and  they 
Are  His  children,  —  one  family  here. 
Robert  Browning. 


PLUM    PUDDING    AND    MINCE    PIE 


PLUM   PUDDING 

JDLANCH  1  cup  of  almonds  and  J  cup  of  Brazil  nuts, 
and  put  them  through  a  fine  grinder ;  add  to  them  1  cup  of 
blanched  chopped  walnuts,  and  mix  with  these  2  cups  of 
very  fine  bread  crumbs,  |  cup  of  butter,  ^  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  3  lemons  (washed  well  before 
grating),  2  cups  of  seedless  raisins,  2  cups  of  currants,  2 
cups  of  light  Sultana  raisins,  1  cup  of  mixed  candied 
peel  finely  shredded,  and  when  well  blended  stir  into  this 
six  slightly  beaten  eggs  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Put  in  a 
pudding  basin  and  steam  or  boil  for  eight  hours;  boil 
several  hours  to  reheat  the  day  it  is  to  be  used.  Serve 
with  brandy  sauce  and  nun's  butter. 

PLUM   PUDDING   SAUCE 

Beat  1  egg  until  very  light,  stir  into  it  1  cup  of  sugar, 
and  when  blended  add  3  tablespoons  of  boiling  water  and 
cook  over  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  adding  1  wine- 
glass of  brandy  during  the  last  two  minutes'  cooking. 

NUN'S   BUTTER 

Beat  J  cup  of  butter  until  creamy,  and  add  slowly  to  it 
1  cup  of  powdered  (or  granulated)  sugar.  Add  1  table- 
spoon of  vanilla,  lemon,  or  brandy,  and  a  sprinkling  of 
grated  nutmeg. 


300  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


MINCE   PIE 

Bake  3  large  apples,  and  press  them  through  a  sieve  to 
remove  skins  and  cores;  grate  the  rinds  from  3  lemons, 
and  add  this  and  the  juice  of  the  lemons  to  the  apple 
pulp;  wash,  pick  over,  and  bruise  in  a  mortar  1  cup  of 
currants ;  stone  2  cups  of  raisins,  and  cut  them  in  slices. 
Mix  these  all  well  together,  chop  into  them  1  cup  of  butter 
(or  cocoanut  butter) ,  a  little  salt,  4  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1 
tablespoon  of  candied  lemon  peel,  1  tablespoon  of  candied 
citron,  and  1  tablespoon  of  candied  orange  peel,  all  well 
minced,  and  after  stirring  well,  add  2  tablespoons  of  orange 
marmalade  and  \  cup  of  good  brandy.  Put  in  sealed  glass 
jars,  cover  with  wax  or  brandied  paper  before  the  jar  is 
closed,  and  use  for  pies  in  two  weeks. 


rV IhT  thou  draw  near  the 
Nature  of  the  gods?  Draw 
near  them  in  being  merciful. 
Sweet  mercy  is  nobility  s  true 
badge.''  —  Shakspere. 


MENUS 


M] 


.ENDS  in  a  cook-book  are  perhaps  not  always  worth 
the  space  devoted  to  them,  but  as  the  beginner  in  Vege- 
tarianism often  finds  the  arranging  of  a  menu  in  such  a 
way  that  it  does  not  depart  too  far  from  the  accustomed 
manner  of  sei-ving  food  the  most  diflScult  part  of  the 
task  she  has  set  herself,  a  few  menus  are  here  given, 
more  with  an  idea  of  showing  what  dishes  are  most  suit- 
able as  Entremets,  Pieces  de  Resistance,  and  Entrees,  than 
with  the  thought  that  they  will  be  followed  absolutely, 
for  they  can  of  course  be  changed  in  many  ways,  and 
very  much  simplified  for  ordinary  use,  and  amplified  for 
formal  occasions. 

THANKSGIVING  DINNER 

FRESH   MUSHROOM   COCKTAH. 
PIMOLAS  CELERY 

CREAM   OF   ARTICHOKES 
CRACKERS  RADISHES 

ASPARAGUS   IN    DUTCH    BUTTER 

MICHAELMAS   LOAF 
MASHED    POTATOES  ROAST   SWEET   POTATOES 

CRANBERRY   SAUCE  BAKED    CELERY 

TOMATO   SALAD   WITH   MAYONNAISE 

FROZEN   CRANBERRY   PUNCH 

MINCE   PIE  PUMPKIN   PIE 

NUTS  AND   RAISINS  FRUIT 

COFFEE 


304  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 


CHRISTMAS   DINNER 

PIMENTO   COCKTAIL 
OLIVES 

MUSHROOM   STEW 

CRACKERS  CELERY 

•     •     • 

FRIED   EGG-PLANT  WITH   SAUCE  TARTARE 

CHRISTMAS  LOAF 

POTATOES  SOUFFLE  GLAZED   ONIONS 

CHILLED   APPLE   SAUCE 

CREME   DE   MENTHE   PUNCH 

WALDORF   SALAD 

PLUM   PUDDING 
BRANDT  SAUCE  HARD   SAUCE 

NUTS  RAISINS  FRUIT 

COFFEE 


EASTER   DINNER 

CREAM  OF  GREEN  PEA  IN  CUPS 

FRESH  MUSHROOM  PATTIES 

ROAST  NUT  AND  BARLEY  LOAF 

MINT  SAUCE 
CREAMED  NEW  POTATOES 

NEW  PEAS  PAYSANNE 

FRUIT  SHERBET 

DESSERT 


Menus  305 


A   DOZEN    DINNERS 

BLACK  BEAN  SOUP  OLIVES 

JERUSALEM   ARTICHOKES   IN   BUTTEE 

STUFFED   TOMATOES 

GERMAN   SPINACH 

DELMONICO   POTATOES 

LETTUCE   SALAD 

DESSERT 


BEET   SAVOURY 

TOMATO-OKRA  SOUP 
SMALL   CRACKERS  CELERY 

GLORIFIED    CARROTS 

ASPARAGUS    TIPS    IN   BUTTER 
POTATO   CASES  PEAS 

DESSERT 


CREAM   OF    CARROTS 

GREEN   PEAS   IN   PATTY    CASES 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  WITH    CHESTNUTS 
TURNIPS  WITH   POTATO 

CREAMED   ONIONS 

NARRAGANSETT  SALAD 

DESSERT 
20 


3o6  Golden  Rule  Cook -Book 


CALCUTTA   BISQUE 

TOMATOES  CASDiO 

STEAMED   NUT   LOAF    WITH    CAPER   SAUCE 
LEEKS  IN   BUTTEK  ROAST   POTATOES 

•         •         • 

CELERY   SALAD 
DESSERT 


HEILBRONN   SOUP 

BUTTON  MUSHROOMS  IN  TIMBALE   CASES 

CELERY   IN    CASSEROLE 
POTATO   CROQUETTES  SPINACH   SOUFFLE 

PIMENTO  SALAD 

DESSERT 


CLEAR   CONSOMME  CROUTONS 

GLOBE   ARTICHOKE   WITH    SAUCE   HOLLANDAISE 

•         •         • 

STUFFED  PEPPERS  POTATO   STRAWS 

GRILLED   TOMATOES 

WATERCRESS  SALAD 

DESSERT 

CREAM   OF   GREEN   PEA 

FRESH   ASPARAGUS  ON  TOAST 

STUFFED    CUCUMBERS. 
NEW  POTATOES,   CREAMED  DEVILLED  TOMATOES 

MUSHROOMS  m  CASES 

DESSERT 


Menus  307 


MULLIGATAWNEY   SOUP 

LADIES   CABBAGE    IN   RAMEKINS 

CHESTNUT  PUEEE 
MOCK  NEW  POTATOES  CREAMED   BEETS 

FETTICUS   SALAD 

DESSERT 


JULIENNE   SOUP 

CREAMED    SALSIFY   PATTIES 

MUSHROOMS   IN    CASSEROLE 
MASHED   POTATOES  GREEN   STRING   BEANS 

•  •         • 

BANANA   FRITTERS 
DESSERT 

CREAM  OF   CELERY 

OLIVES  RADISHES 

•  •     • 
CHESTNUTS  IN   CASES 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS   CREAMED 

BOAST   POTATOES  FRENCH   BEANS 

CREOLE   CROQUETTES 

•  •         • 

CELERY   SALAD 
DESSERT 


COCKIE-LEEKIE  SOUP 

FRIED  ARTICHOKES    TARTARS 

ITALIAN   CAULIFLOWER  RICED   POTATOES 

NUT    CROQUETTES 

RUSSIAN   CUCUMBER  SALAD 

DESSERT 


3o8  Golden   Rule  Cook-Book 

% 


PUEEE   MONGOLE 
OLIVES 


ESCALLOPED   POTATOES  VEGETABLE   CAS8EBOLE 

CELEBY   PATTIES 

BOMAINE   SALAD 

DESSERT 

A   DOZEN    LUNCHEONS 

CREAM   OF   CORN  IN   CUPS 

EGG  TIMBALB3  WITH   TOMATO   SAUCE 

ARTICHOKES  VINAIGRETTE 

DESSERT 


BUTTON   MUSHROOM   COCKTAILS   IN   PEPPER   CASES 

BAKED    CELERY 
PEAS  IN   CASES  POTATO  NUT   CROQUETTES 

ITALIAN   SALAD 

DESSERT 


CREAM   OF   SPINACH 

FREED   EGG-PLANT   WITH    TOMATO   SAUCE 

SPINACH   WITH   CHEESE,   IN   PATTY   CASES 
POTATOES   AU   GRATIN 

GRAPE-FRUIT  SALAD 

DESSERT 


Menus  309 


BROWN   BREAD   SAVOURY 

CLEAR   CONSOMME   IN   CUPS 

EGGS   CARMELITE 

FRIED    POTATOES   SOUFFLE 

CAULIFLOWER   FRITTERS 

LETTUCE-PIMENTO   SALAD   WITH   CHEESE   BALLS 

DESSERT 


TOMATO-CORN   CREAM 

FILLED    MUSHROOMS 
STUFFED    PEPPERS 

CREAMED   TOMATOES 

POTATOES   AND    CHEESE 

CHERRY   SALAD 

DESSERT 

TOMATO-MAYONNAISE   SAVOURY 

CREAM   OF  RICE 

BOILED   BANANAS   WITH    TOMATO   SAUCE 

MUSHROOM   LOAF 

PHILADELPHIA  SALAD 

DESSERT 

CREAMED   PIMENTOS 

SALSIFY  EST   COQUILLES 

MUSHROOMS   SUR    CLOCHE 

PINEAPPLE  AND   CELERY  SALAD 

DESSERT 


3  I  o  Golden   Rule   Cook-Book 

CANTON   STEW 
NUT   CEOQUETTES  WITH   SAUCE 
RICE   CZAEINA  POTATOES   IN   CRADLES 

PINK-EGG   SALAD 

DESSERT 


PIMENTO    COCKTAIL 

CORN   IN   TOMATO    CASES 

MACARONI   BIANCA 

SPECIAL   MIXED    SALAD 

DESSERT 

CAPER  SAVOURY 

CREAM  OF  ARTICHOKE 

CHOP  SUEY 

ITALIAN    CROQUETTES 


POLISH    SALAD 
DESSERT 


FRESH   MUSHROOM    COCKTAIL 

LIMA   BEAN    CREAM   IN    CUPS 

BORDEAUX    PIE 

PARISIAN    POTATOES 

ASPARAGUS   VINAIGRETTE 

DESSERT 


Menus  311 


CREOLE   SAVOUBT 

CAEROTS   DELMONICO    IN    CASES 

MUSHROOMS   IN   CASSEROLE 
STUFFED   TOMATOES  POTATOES   DUCHESSE 

ARTICHOKE    SALAD 

DESSERT 


2  HE  wolf  also  shall  dwell  with  the  lamb, 
and  the  leopard  shall  lie  down  with  the  kid ; 
and  the  calf  and  the  young  lion  and  the  fat- 
ling  together;  and  a  little  child  shall  lead 
them. 

And  the  cow  and  the  hear  shall  feed; 
their  young  ones  shall  lie  down  together; 
and  the  lion  shall  eat  straw  like  the  ox. 

And  the  sucking  child  shall  play  on  the 
hole  of  the  asp,  and  the  weaned  child  shall 
put  his  hand  on  the  cockatrice*  den. 

They  shall  not  hurt  nor  destroy  in  all  my 
holy  mountain:  for  the  earth  shall  he  full 
of  the  knowledge  of  the  Lord,  as  the  waters 
cover  the  sea.  —  Isaiah  xi,  6-9. 


INDEX 


Introduction 11 

The  Kitchen 29 

The  Dining  Room 35 

Seasoning 39 

Measiuing 39 

Thickening 40 

An  Herb  Garden 40 

Gelatine 41 

Fat  for  Frying 41 

Canned  Goods 41 


SOUPS 


Vegetable  Stock,  45  ^ 
A  Simple  Consomme,  45 
Clear  BouUlon,  46 
Cream  of  Artichoke,  47 
with  Nastmiiums,  47 

Lima  Beans,  50 

Carrot  and  Onion,  52 

Carrots,  53 

Cauliflower,  53 

Celery,  54 

Cheese,  53 

Chestnut,  55 

Com,  55 

Curry,  56 

Lentil,  59 

Onion,  61 

Green  Pea,  63 

Rice,  65 

Spinach,  67 

Tomato,  70 

Vegetable,  74 
Soup,  Asparagus,  48 

Barley  and  Tomato,  48 

Black  Bean,  48 

Belgian,  49 

Plain  Bean,  49 

Brown  Bean,  49 

Red  Bean,  50 

Dutch  Cabbage,  51 

Calcutta  Bisque,  51 

Canton  Stew,  51 

Carrot  Broth,  52 


Soup,  Chestnut,  54 
Cockie-Leekie,  56 
Creole,  56 
Florentine,  57 
Heilbronn,  57 
Juhenne,  58 
Red  Lentil,  58 
Puree  Mongole,  59 
Hungarian,  59 
Mushroom  Bisque,  60 
Mushroom,  60 
Mushroom  Stew,  61 
Noodle,  61 
Okra,  61 

Onion  au  Fromage,  62 
New  Green  Pea,  62 
Split  Pea,  63 
Princess,  64 
Potato,  64 
German  Potato,  64 
Potato  (Flora),  65 
Rice  and  Tomato,  65 
Rice-Okra,  66 
Salsify  (Oyster  Plant),  66 
Spinach-Tomato,  67 
Sorrel  (French),  68 
Sorrel  (German),  68 
St.  Germaine,  68 
Spaghetti,  69 
Scotch  Broth,  69 
Spanish  Tomato,  70 
Tomato-Tapioca,  70 


3i6 


Index 


SOUPS  — coniinued 


Soup,  Tomato  and  Com,  71 
Tomato-Macaroni,  71 
Tomato,  71  • 

Tomato-Okra,  7^ 
Mulligatawney,  72 
Vegetable  No.  1,  72 


Soup,  Vegetable  No.  2,  73 
Vegetable  No.  3,  73 
Vegetable  No.  4,  73 ' 
Vegetable  No.  5,  74 
Vegetable  Marrow,  75 


VEGETABLES 


Artichokes  (Jerusalem)  in  Butter,  79 

au  Gratin,  79 

with  Tomato  Sauce,  79 

with  French  Sauce,  80 

Fritters,  80 

Fried,  80 

French  Fried,  80 

Tartare,  81 

Fried  with  Tomato  Sauce,  81 

Lyonnaise,  81 

Puree,  81 

Newburg,  82 
Artichokes  (Globe),  82 

to  steam,  83 

to  boil,  83 

with  Mushrooms,  84 

Vinaigrette,  84 

Fonds,  84 
Asparagus,  85 

with  White  Sauce,  85 

with  Dutch  Butter,  85 

Tips,  86 

White,  86 

Vinaigrette,  86 

Fried  Tips,  86 

Tips  with  White  Sauce,  87 

in  Bread  Cases,  87 

Escalloped,  87 
Apples,  Griddled,  88 
Apple  Fritters,  88 
Bananas,  boiled,  88 

with  Tomatoes,  88 
Banana  Fritters,  89 
Boston  Beans,  89 
Beans,  Green  String,  90 

Golden  Wax,  90 

French,  90 

Deutschland,  90 


Beans,  Florentine,  91 

and  Corn,  91 

Itahan,  91 

Spanish,  92 

Lima,  92 

Lima  Hollandaise,  93 

Lima  Creamed,  93 

Lima  Sauquetash,  93 
Beets,  94 

Creamed,  94 

Virginia,  94 

Piquant,  95 

German,  95 

Pickled,  95 
Brussels  Sprouts,  96 

in  Dutch  Butter,  96 

with  Celery,  96 

with  Chestnuts,  97 

Lyonnaise,  97 

Creamed,  97 

in  Bread  Cases,  97 
Cabbage,  98 

New  England,  98 

Western,  98 

Sarmas,  99 

Lichtenstein,  99 

Lady,  100 

Cold  Slaw,  100 

German  Red,  100 

Hungarian,  100 

Pickled  Red,  101 
Carrots,  Creamed,  101 
with  Potatoes,  102 

Saute,  102 

Glorified,  102 

Glazed,  103 

Delmonico,  103 

Souffle,  104 


Indi 


ex 


317 


VEGETABLES  —  coniimted 


Cauliflower,  104 

Creamed,  104 

au  Gratin,  105 

German,  105 

Italian,  105 

Fritters,  105 
Celery,  Creamed,  106 

in  Brown  Sauce,  106 

in  Casserole,  106 

Baked,  107 
Cepes,  107 
Com,  Boiled,  108 

Roasted,  108 

Pudding,  108 
in  Cases,  108 

Creole,  109 

and  Tomato  Pie,  109 

Chowder,  109 

Rhode  Island  Escallop,  110 
Cucumbers,  Stewed,  110 

Stuffed,  110 
Egg  Plant  with  Sauce  Tartare,  111 

with  Tomato  Sauce,  111 
Endive,  Creamed,  111 
Kohbabi,  112 

au  Gratin,  112 
Lentils,  Egyptian,  112 

German,  113 
Lentil  Pie,  112 
Leeks,  113 
Mushrooms,  114 

Stewed,  114 

German,  114 

Newburg,  115 

on  Toast,  115 

GriUed,  116 

Sur  Cloche,  116 

in  Casserole,  116 

Filled,  117 

with  Truffles,  117 

with  Peas,  117 

with  Onions,  117 

with  Egg,  118 

Canned,  118 

Czarina,  119 
Mushroom  and  Chestnut  Ragout,  115 

Loaf,  119 
Okra.  Stewed,  120 


Okra  and  Grilled  Tomatoes,  120 

with  Tomato  Sauce,  120 

and  Tomato  Escallop,  120 
Onions,  Boiled,  121 

Creamed,  121 

with  Brown  Sauce,  121 

au  Gratin,  122 

with  Cheese,  122 

Escalloped,  122 

Baked  with  Chestnuts,  122 

Souffle,  123 

Bordeaux,  123 

and  Tomato  Escallop,  124 

Beatrice,  124 

Stuffed,  124 

Fried,  125 

French  Fried,  125 

in  Potato  Cradles,  126 

SmaU,  126 

Glazed,  126 

and  Apples,  126 
Parsnips,  Boiled,  127 

in  Butter,  127 

Fried,  127 

French  Fried,  127 

BroUed,  128 
Peas,  Green,  128 

Paysanne,  128 

Canned,  128 

with  Onion,  128 
Peppers,  Stuffed,  129 

with  Mushrooms,  129 
with  Rice,  129 
with  Egg,  130 
with  Corn,  130 

Escalloped  with  Com,  130 

Fried,  131 
Pimentos,  Creamed,  131 

RoUed,  131 

with  Okra,  132 

with  Tomato,  132 
Potatoes,  132 

Mashed,  133 
in  cases,  133 

Souffle,  134 

Riced,  134 

Mashed  with  Onion,  135 

Baked,  135 


3i8 


Index 


VEGETABLES  — con;mae(/ 


Potatoes,  Roast,  135 

Denver,  135 

Broiled,  136 

Fried  Souffle,  136 

Whole  Fried,  136 

French  Fried,  137 

Parisian,  137 

Lyonnaise,  138 

German  Fried,  138 

Creamed,  139 

Escalloj)ed,  139 

Delmonico,  140 

Oak  Hill,  140 

Heilbronn,  140 

Curried,  142 

Rennequin,  142 

and  Cheese,  143 

Escallop  with  Om'on,  143 

New,  in  Butter,  143 

Creamed  New,  144 

Boiled  New,  144 

INIock  New,  144 
Potato  Fritters,  134 

Straws,  137 

Cradles,  138 

Savoury,  139 

Cakes,  141 

Hash,  141 

Omelet,  141 

Fricassee,  142 
Saratoga  Chips,  137 
Sweet  Potatoes,  Boiled,  145 

Baked,  145 

Mashed,  145 

Souffle,  145 

Escalloped,  146 

Stuffed,  146 

Maryland,  147 

Candied,  148 

Griddled,  148 

Fried,  148 

French  Fried,  148 

Glazed,  149 
Sweet  Potato  Pie,  146 
Texas,  147 


Salsify  (Oyster  Plant),  149 
English,  149 
in  Coquilles,  149 
Escalloped,  150 
Tartare,  150 
Black,  150 
Spinach,  150 
German,  151 
with  White  Sauce,  151 
with  Rhubarb,  151 
Italian,  152 
Novelty,  152 
Souffle,  152 
Squash,  Baked,  153 

California,  153 
Tomatoes,  Stewed,  153 
Escalloped,  154 
Breaded,  154 
Fried,  154 
Devilled,  155 
Creamed,  155 

Baked  with  Mushrooms,  156 
with  Nut  Force-meat,  156 
Stuffed  with  Egg  and  Peppers,  156 
Baked  with  Peppers,  156 
Filled  with  Egg,  157 
Stuffed  with  Spinach,  157 

with  Macaroni,  158 
and  Onion,  158 
Casino,  159 
Indienne,  159 
with  Eggs,  159 
Curried,  159 
Savoiuy,  160 
Creole,  160 
and  Hominy,  161 
Loaf,  160 

American  Rarebit,  158 
Turnips,  Stewed,  161 
Mashed,  162 

with  Potato,  162 
au  Gratin,  162 
Ragout  of,  162 
Parisian,  163 
Teltower  Riibchen,  163 


Index 


319 


VEGETABLE   COMBINATIONS 


Chop  Suey,  167 
Q)lcannon,  167 
Macedoine  of  Vegetables,  167 

Canned,  168 
Vegetable  Chowder,  168 

Hash,  169 

Stew,  169 

Casserole,  170 

Ragout,  171 


Vegetable  Pie  St.  Georges,  169 

Bordeaux,  171 
New  Orleans  Stew,  172 
Curry,  Indian,  172 

Lentils,  173 

Succotash,  173 

Creole,  173 

Various,  174 


NUT   DISHES 


Chestnuts,  Italian,  177 

Puree,  177 
Peanut  Puree,  178 
Michaelmas  Loaf,  178 
Christmas  Loaf,  178 
Nut  and  Barley  Loaf  (Roast),  179 


Nut  and  Barley  Loaf  (Steamed),  179 

and  Hominy  Loaf,  179 

and  Fruit  Loaf,  180 
Foundation  Loaf,  180 
Nut  Haah,  181 


RICE,   MACARONI,   ETC. 


Rice,  Boiled,  185 
Baked,  185 
Indian,  185 
Spanish,  186 
Tomato  Stew,  186 
Fried,  186 
Escalloped,  186 
and  Cheese,  187 
and  Tomatoes  Baked,  187 
Italian,  187 
au  Gratin,  188 
Omelet,  188 
Czarina,  188 
Savoury,  189 
Unpolished,  189 


Pearl  Barley,  189 
Macaroni,  American,  190 

au  Gratin,  190 

Bianca,  190 

Italian,  191 

Baked  Itahan,  192 

with  Tomato  and  Onion,  191 

Mexican,  192 

and  Cheese,  192 

Rarebit,  192 
Spaghetti,  193 
Noodles,  193 

German,  194 

Italian,  194 


CROQUETTES 


Croquettes,  Bean,  197 
Cheese,  197 
Swiss  Cheese,  197 
Chestnut,  198 
Egg.  198 


Croquettes,  Farina,  198 
Hominy,  199 
Lentil,  199 
Macaroni,  199 
Italian,  200 


320 


Index 


CROQUETTES  —  continued 


Croquettes,  Tomato,  200 
Dried  Pea,  201 
Nut  and  Potato,  201 

and  Salsify,  201 

and  Cocoanut,  202 
Potato,  202 

with  Cheese,  202 

Savoury,  202 

Mashed,  203 


Croquettes,  Potato  Creole,  203 

Sweet,  203 
Rice,  204 

Sweetened,  203 

Pink,  204 

Curried,  204 
Carolina,  204 
English  Savouiy,  205 
Mixed  Vegetable,  205 


Timbales,  Com,  210 

Egg,  209 

Egg-Tomato,  209 

Pea,  210 

Potato,  211 

and  Cheese,  210 

Rice,  211 

Savoury  Egg,  209 
Patties,  Articnoke,  211 


TIMBALES   AND   PATTIES 


Patties,  Asparagus,  212 
Celery,  212 
Chestnut,  212 
Green  Pea,  212 
Egg,  213 
Macedoine,  213 
Mushroom,  213 
Camied,  213 


SAUCES 


Caramel  for  Colouring, 
Reduced  Vinegar,  217 
Sauce  Bemaise,  217 

Black  Butter,  218 

Bread,  218 

Brown,  218 

Various  Brown,  219 

Bordelaise,  219 

Curry,  219 

Caper,  220 

Cheese,  220 

Cucumber,  220 

Devilled,  221 

Egg,  221 

French,  221 

German,  221 
Egg,  222 

Herb,  222 

HoUandaise,  222 

Horse-Radish,  222 

Maitre  d'Hotel,  223 

Mint,  223 


217 


Sauce,  Mushroom,  223 

Nut,  223 

Onion,  224 

Parsley,  224 

Proven9al,  224 

Piquant,  225 

Ravigote,  225 

Robert,  225 

Spanish,  225 

Spinach,  226 

Tartare,  227 

Tomato,  227 
with  other  Vegetables,  227 
with  Nuts,  227 
with  Egg,  228 

Vinaigrette,  228 

White,  228 
Drawn  Butter,  219 
Dutch  Butter,  220 
Parsley  Butter,  224 
Salad  Dressing,  257 
Mayonnaise,  258 


Index 


321 


EGGS 


Eggs,  Boiled,  231 
Fried,  231 
Poached,  232 

with  Gravy,  232 

Indienne,  232 
Waldorf,  232 
Scrambled,  233 

with  Cheese,  233 

with  Mushrooms,  etc.,  233 

Savomy,  233 

Indiemie,  234 
Spanish,  234 
Shirred,  234 

with  Tomatoes,  234 
Griddled,  235 
Carmelite,  237 
with  Potato,  237 
Newburg,  237 
Lyomiaise,  238 
Devilled,  238 
Japanese,  238 
Golden  Rod,  239 
Frothed,  239 
Fried  Stuffed,  239 


Eggs,  Carolina,  240 

Miinchner,  241 

in  Marinade,  241 

Parisienne,  241 

Perigord,  241 

with  Cheese,  242 

Mornay,  242 

Creamed,  242 

Omar  Pasha,  243 

Turkish,  243 

Beurre-Noir,  243 

Creole,  244 

in  Savoury  Butter,  244 

Escalloped,  245 
Omelet,  Plain,  235 

Souffle,  235 
Baked,  236 

Herb,  236 

Cheese,  236 

Rum,  236 
Swiss  Egg  Toast,  240 
Canuck  Egg  Toast,  245 
Egg  Mould,  245 


CHEESE 


Cheese  Ramekins,  249 
Baked  with  Bread,  249 
Fondu,  249 
Relish,  250 
Meringues,  250 
Creamed,  250 
Pancakes,  250 
Cottage,  251 
Liptauer,  252 


Cheese,  Camembert,  253 
Dreams,  253 
Roquefort  Gourmet,  253 
Grated,  253 
Rarebit,  Welsh,  251 

Bachelor's,  251 

Delmonico,  252 

Pink,  252 


SALADS 


Salad,  American,  259 
Artichoke,  259 
Green  Bean,  259 
Wax  Bean,  260 
Beet  with  Celery,  260 
Cabbage,  260 


21 


Salad,  Celery  and  Pineapple,  260 
Cherry,  260 
Cucumber,  261 
Cucumber,  Russian,  261 
Country,  261 
Dent  de  Lion,  261 


322 


Index 


SALADS  —  continued 


Salad,  Pink  Egg,  262 
Endive,  262 
Fetticus,  262 
Garden,  262 
Grape  Fruit,  262 
Italian,  263 
Lettuce,  263 
Macedoine,  263 
Mixed,  263 
Mushroom,  264 
Narragansett,  264 
Philadelphia,  264 
Pimento,  264 
Polish,  265 

Potato  (German),  265 
Potato  (American),  265 


Salad,  Potato  (Red),  266 

Romaine,  266 

Southern,  266 

Sorrel,  266 

Spanish,  267 

Sunday  night,  267 

Tomato  (Russian),  267 
with  Chives,  268 

Waldorf,  268 

Watercress  with  Oranges,  268 

Yokohama,  268 
A  Salad  Supper,  269 
French  Dressing,  257 
Mayonnaise  Dressing,  258 
Green  Colouring  for  Mayonnaise,  258 
Tarragon  Vinegar,  258 


SAVOURIES 


Fresh  Mushroom  Cocktails,  273 
Canned  Mushroom  Cocktails,  273 
Pimento  Cocktails,  273 
Savomy,  Beet,  274 

Beet  and  Egg,  274 

Brown  Bread,  274 

Cucumber,  274 

Creole,  275 

Egg,  275 

Horse-Radish,  275 

Mustard,  276 


Savoury,  Neufchatel,  276 

Onion,  276 

Pickle,  276 

Stufted  Olive,  276 

Caper,  277 

Tomato,  277 

Mayonnaise,  277 

Liptauer,  277 

Pimento,  277 
Rounds  of  Toast,  278 


SANDWICHES 


Sandwiches,  Apple,  282 
Bombay,  282 
Cheese,  284 
Creole,  282 
Egg,  282 
German,  284 
Honolulu,  284 


Sandwiches,  Lettuce,  283 
Nut,  283 

Peanut  Butter,  282 
Pimola,  283 
Pickle,  283 

Providence  House,  281 
Savoury  Butter,  281 


PASTRY,   PATTY   CASES,   ETC. 


Pie-Crust,  287 
Easy  Puff  Paste,  287 
Timbale  Cases,  288 
Batter  for  Fritters,  288 
Pastry  for  Patty  Cases,  288 


Potato  Crust,  289 
Essex  Pastry,  289 
Dumplings,  289 
Croutons,  289 
Bread  Crumbs,  290 


Index 


323 


A   FEW   HOT   BREADS 


Baking  Powder  Biscuits,  293 
Pop  Overs,  293 
Graham  Gems,  294 
Tennessee  Corn  Bread,  294 
Southern  Rice  Muffins,  294 


Rice  Griddle  Cakes,  295 
Corn  Griddle  Cakes,  295 
Wheat  Griddle  Cakes,  295 
Gingerbread,  295 
Sunday  Morning  Waffles,  296 


TWO    NECESSARY   DESSERTS 


Plum  Pudding,  299 
Plum  Pudding  Sauce,  299 


Nun's  Butter,  299 
Mince  Pie,  300 


MENUS 


Thanksgiving  Dinner,  303 
Christmas  Dmner,  304 
Easter  Dinner,  304 


A  Dozen  Dinners,  305 
A  Dozen  Luncheons,  308 


The  University  Press,  Cambridge,  U.  S.  A. 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  05987  691  0 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Gapley  Square 

Division  6f 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket. 


MAK  1  u  -im 


■I 


