NYPL  RESEARCH  LIBRARIES 


3  3433  07897529  3 


• 


V<\      N-' 


THE  NEW   YORK 

PUftLIC   LIBRARY 


ASTOt.    L4N8I    AND 
TILDBN    FOUNDATIONS 


^^w^^^^ 


REVIEW   A   HERALD   PUB'G  CO. 


NUT  COOKERY 


TOGETHER  WITH  A  BRIEF  HISTORY  OF  NUTS 
AND  THEIR  FOOD  VALUES 


BY 

MRS.    ALMEDA    LAMBERT 


ILLUSTRATED 


JOSEPH    LAMBERT   &    COMPANY 
BATTLE  CREEK,  MICHIGAN 

1899 


THE  NEW  YORK 
PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

265174K 


AerroK, 

TlLDIN  FOUMUT10N8 
K  1944  L 


Copyright,  1898, 
BY  MRS.  ALMEDA  LAMBERT. 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE, 

INTRODUCTION 5 

NUTS  AND  THEIR  HISTORY 7 

FOODS 59 

COMBINATIONS  OF  FOODS 6 1 

NUTS  :  THEIR  PROPERTIES  AND  FOOD  VALUES 64 

NUT  BUTTER 70 

NUT  MEAL 76 

SAUSAGES 79 

NUT  OIL 82 

NUTMEATOSE,   NUTORA,   ETC 84 

NUTMEATO 91 

MALT  EXTRACT 134 

GRAINS 143 

UNLEAVENED   BREADS 156 

YEAST  BREADS 168 

SANDWICHES 183 

CRACKERS 1 88 

FRUIT 194 

FRESH  FRUIT 208 

To  CAN  FRUIT 213 

COOKED  FRUIT 222 

DRIED  FRUITS 225 

3 

FRUIT  JUICES 228 

JELLIES 233 

LEGUMES 246 

VEGETABLES 253 

[3] 


4  CONTENTS. 

SOUPS 290 

GRAVIES 311 

PIES 320 

PUDDINGS 333 

SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS 344 

FILLINGS 350 

CAKES '.  354 

ICING 376 

DRINKS 381 

SALADS 384 

TOASTS 391 

FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK 400 

CREAMS,   ICES,    ETC 411 

To  BLANCH  NUTS 415 

To  SALT    NUTS 417 

CONFECTIONERY 419 

MENUS 425 

COMPOSITION  OF  FOODS 434 


INTRODUCTION. 


FOR  nearly  six  thousand  years,   one  of  the  choicest,    most 
healthful,  and  most  nutritious    articles  of  food  that  was 
assigned  by  the  Creator  for  man's  diet,   has  been  but  little 
used,  at  least  by  the  civilized  portion  of  the  world. 

This  long-neglected  article  of  diet  some  call  "  shell  fruit," 
but  the  common  name  is  "nuts."  "And  God  said,  Behold, 
I  have  given  you  every  herb  bearing  seed,  which  is  upon  the 
face  of  all  the  earth,  and  every  tree  yielding  seed  ;  to  you  it 
shall  be  for  meat."  Nuts,  which  are  only  the  shelled  fruit  of 
a  tree  or  seeds  of  a  plant,  are  certainly  included  in  man's 
original  bill  of  fare. 

It  is  indeed  strange  that  man  should  so  lightly  esteem  and 
refuse  to  partake  of  these  choice,  God-given  viands,  which, 
judiciously  used  with  grains  and  fruits,  would  supply  all 
nature's  requirements,  and  turn  from  the  healthful  diet  to 
that  which  is  less  wholesome  and  more  liable  to  disease - 
such  as  flesh  meats  of  all  kinds.  The  probable  reason  for 
this  is,  first,  they  are  usually  eaten  as  desserts  after  one  has 
already  eaten  a  sufficient  amount,  or  they  are  eaten  as  titbits 
between  meals,  and  then,  if  indigestion  follows,  the  nuts  get 
the  credit.  Secondly,  they  are  somewhat  hard  of  mastication, 
and  very  few  people  of  this  generation  have  teeth  sound 
enough  to  masticate  them  sufficiently  for  easy  digestion. 

Historians  and  travelers  tell  us  that  the  natives  of  Africa 
and  British  Guiana,  also  the  North  American  Indians,  use  nuts 
as  one  of  the  principal  articles  of  their  diet.  Missionaries 

[5] 


O  INTRODUCTION. 

who  have  lately  returned  from  these  lands,  inform  us  that  the 
natives  still  use  nuts  in  the  preparation  of  their  foods;  and 
that  with  their  crude  utensils,  they  can  grind  and  emulsify 
nuts  nearly  as  well  as  the  more  modern  perfected  machinery. 

A  little  over  fifteen  years  ago,  the  German  army  began 
experimenting  quite  extensively  on  the  use  of  peanuts  as  an 
article  of  diet  for  the  army,  and  at  the  present  time,  there  are 
annually  many  thousand  tons  of  peanuts  exported  from  this 
country  to  Germany  and  France.  They  extract  the  oil  and 
make  the  residue  into  flour  or  meal,  and  apportion  it  to  the 
soldiers.  It  is  made  into  soups  and  other  foods,  and  con- 
sidered very  nutritious. 

In  the  last  few  years,  there  has  been  a  great  awakening  in 
regard  to  healthful  living,  and  great  strides  have  been  made 
in  the  methods  of  emulsifying  nuts  into  a  paste  or  butter,  - 
a  convenient  form  for  cooking  purposes  and  much  easier  to 
digest.  But  the  majority  of  those  who  have  adopted  nut 
butter,  use  it  instead  of  the  dairy  product  only  to  spread 
on  bread.  It  is  the  object  of  the  author  to  place  before 
the  public  a  book  treating  upon  the  use  of  nuts  as  short- 
ening, seasoning,  etc.,  to  be  used  in  every  way  in  which  milk, 
cream,  butter,  or  lard  can  be  used,  and  fully  to  take  their 
place. 

To  the  best  of  the  author's  knowledge,  there  has  hitherto 
been  no  book  which  treats  upon  this  subject.  The  recipes 
are  those  which  have  been  carefully  tested  by  the  author  or 
some  of  her  friends. 

Perfection  is  not  claimed  in  this  work,  but  it  is  sincerely 
hoped  that  this  book  is  only  a  forerunner  of  other  and  better 
works  on  this  subject,  and  that  further  experiments  will  bring 
out  other  and  more  valuable  recipes. 

MRS.  ALMEDA  LAMBERT, 

Battle  Creek,  Mich. 


NUTS  AND  THEIR  HISTORY. 


ALMONDS. 

THE  name  of  this  nut  is  supposed  to  be  derived  from  the 
word  ainysso,  meaning  to  lacerate,  on  account  of  the 
prominent,  sharp,  knife-like  margin  of  one  edge  of  the  nut. 
The  English  name  is  from  the  Latin  amandola  and  from  the 
Greek  amaygdale.  The  almond  tree  is  a  tropical  evergreen, 
and  was  originally  a  native  of  Barbary  and  Morocco,  but  is 
now  widely  cultivated  throughout  the  warmer  temperate 
zones  of  the  Old  World,  and  also  in  California  and  in  the 
southern  United  States. 

Botanically  it  belongs  to  the  Rose  family,  Rosacece.  In 
most  of  our  modern  botanical  works,  it  is  classed  as  a  sub- 
section of  Prunus,  the  plum.  The  plum,  peach,  and  almond 
are  generally  considered  to  be  only  varieties  of  one  species. 
Our  cultivated  peaches  and  nectarines  are  undoubtedly  de- 
scendants of  the  wild  almond  tree.  However,  they  differ 
greatly  in  the  size  and  color  of  the  blossoms  as  well  as  the 
shape  and  size  of  the  leaf.  The  almond  blossoms  are  usually 
somewhat  larger  than  the  blossoms  of  the  peach,  and  of  a 
pale  rose  color,  appearing  in  early  spring  before  or  with  the 
unfolding  leaves.  The  leaves  are  three  or  four  inches  long, 
tapering  and  finely  serrate.  The  fruit  of  the  almond,  like  the 
peach,  is  covered  with  a  soft,  velvety  down;  but  the  pulpy 
envelope  becomes  dry  and  fibrous  at  maturity,  cracking  open 
and  allowing  the  rough,  deeply  pitted,  and  wrinkled  nut  to 
drop  out,  while  in  the  peach,  the  pulpy  envelope  becomes 
soft,  juicy,  and  edible.  The  plum  is  only  a  peach  with  a 
smooth  skin. 

[7] 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

"  As  with  most  of  the  long-cultivated  fruit  and  nut  trees, 
very  little  is  known  of  the  early  history  or  origin  of  the 
almond,  and  even  its  native  country  has  not  been  positively 
determined,  although  it  is  supposed  to  be  indigenous  to  north- 
ern Africa,  and  the  mountainous  regions  of  Asia.  Theo- 
phrastus,  who  wrote  the  history  of  plants  three  centuries 
before  the  Christian  era,  mentions  the  almond  as  the  only 
tree  in  Greece  that  produces  blossoms  before  the  leaves." 

The  almond  thrives  throughout  the  Mediterranean  coun- 
tries both  in  Europe  and  Africa,  and  has  long  been  exten- 
sively cultivated.  It  forms  an  important  article  of  commerce, 
immense  quantities  being  exported  from  Spain,  mostly  from 
Valencia,  while  the  so-called  Jordan  almond  comes  from 
Malaga,  as  very  few  are  raised  in  the  valley  of  the  Jordan. 

The  almond  ranks  high  in  nutritive  value,  and  is  highly 
esteemed  for  culinary  purposes,  being  employed  in  the  prepa- 
ration of  numerous  dainty  and  appetizing  dishes  for  the  table. 
In  the  countries  where  the  almond  is  grown,  it  is  considered 
a  dainty  dish  to  serve  in  the  half-open  green  husks  ;  in  this 
state,  the  kernels  are  just  passing  from  the  milky  stage,  and 
are  more  easily  digested  than  they  are  when  fully  ripe.  But 
those  found  in  the  markets  are  fully  matured,  and  have  been 
thoroughly  dried  before  shipping  ;  most  of  them  are  already 
shelled,  as  labor  is  much  cheaper  in  those  countries  where 
they  grow,  and  the  shipping  expense  to  this  country  is  less. 

The  sweet  almond  contains  fifty-three  per  cent,  of  fats, 
twenty-three  and  five-tenths  per  cent,  of  albuminous  elements, 
seven  and  eight-tenths  per  cent,  of  starch,  and  three  per  cent, 
of  salts,  making  a  total  nutritive  value  of  eighty-seven  and 
three-tenths  per  cent. 

The  rough  brown  skin  which  covers  the  kernel  of  the 
almond  is  bitter,  and  somewhat  irritating  to  the  stomach. 
This  should  be  removed  by  blanching. 


ALMONDS. 

I.  Languedoc;  la.  Languedoc  Kernel;  2.  Languedoc  with  Double  Kernel; 
3.  Ne  Plus  Ultra;  3a.  Ne  Plus  Ultra  Kernel;  4.  IXL;  40..  IXL  Kernel;  5.  La 
Prima;  53.  La  Prima  Kernel;  6.  Nonpareil;  6a.  Nonpareil  Kernel;  7.  Golden 
State ;  7a.  Golden  State  Kernel  ;  8.  Bitter ;  8a.  Bitter  Kernel ;  9.  Jordan  ;  93. 
Jordan  Kernel. 

[9] 


10  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

When  formed  into  an  emulsion,  they  are  considered  an 
excellent  medicine  for  persons  suffering  with  diabetes  and  pul- 
monary disorders.  Almond  oil  is  a  standard  article  in  the 
stock  of  druggists,  entering  into  the  composition  of  various 
kinds  of  powders,  paste,  syrups,  and  cosmetics.  But  the 
most  important  use  is  to  take  the  place  of  dairy  milk  and 
butter. 

Almonds  are  usually  divided  into  three  groups  ;  the  soft, 
or  paper-shelled,  the  hard-shelled,  and  the  bitter.  There  are 
many  varieties  of  each  group,  although  they  are  generally 
called  by  the  name  of  the  group  to  which  they  belong. 

Soft,  or  Papcr-slicllcd  Almonds.--  In  this  group  there  are 
many  varieties,  the  most  common  being  the  widely  known 
sweet-kerneled,  thin-shelled  nut.  It  is  one  of  the  oldest  in 
cultivation  in  European  countries.  The  blossoms  are  pale 
rose  in  color  and  very  large. 

Hard-shelled  Almonds.-  -  This  variety  differs  from  the  pre- 
ceding only  in  the  hardness  of  its  shell  and  its  hardiness  to 
endure  the  cold.  It  can  be  grown  where  the  peach  can,  and 
is  very  productive.  Its  shell  is  quite  firm  and  smooth,  but 
deeply  pitted.  The  kernels  are  fully  as  large  as  the  paper- 
shelled,  and  equally  valuable  for  food. 

Most  of  the  names  of  the  different  varieties  are  the  names 
of  the  country  or  city  from  which  they  were  exported.  The 
Sicily  almond  from  Sicily,  Valencia  almond  from  Valencia, 
while  the  Jordan  almond  comes  from  Malaga,  a  very  few 
being  raised  in  the  valley  of  the  Jordan. 

Bitter  Almonds.--  As  regards  the  shell,  this  class  is  not 
distinct  from  the  other  two,  as  some  have  soft  and  some  have 
hard  shells  ;  but  the  kernels  are  very  bitter,  and  contain  a 
poisonous  acid,  known  as  hydrocyanic,  or  Prussia,  acid. 
Although  it  is  often  used  as  flavoring  in  confectionery  and 
cake,  it  is  unsafe  to  do  so. 


NUTS    AND   THEIR    HISTORY. 


I  I 


The  kernel  of  the  sweet  almond  varieties  does  not  contain 
this  poison,  but  it  is  found  in  their  leaves  and  bark. 

BEECHNUT. 

The  Latin  and  bo- 
tanical name  for  the  tree 
is  feigns,  and  was  de- 
rived from  the  Greek 
word  p  k  ago  ,  which 
means  to  eat,  alluding 
to  the  fact  that  the  nuts 
have  been  considered 
good  eating  by  the  in- 
habitants of  the  coun- 
tries where  the  beechnut 
grows.  Botanically,  it 
belongs  to  the  Cupnlif- 
erce,  or  Oak  family. 
The  flowers  appear  in 
the  spring,  with  the 
straight-veined  and  ser- 
rate leaves.  The  calyx 
of  the  sterile  flowers  are 
bell  shaped  and  five 
cleft,  containing  many 
stamens. 

The  fertile  flowers 
appear  in  pairs  on  the 
summit  of  a  scaly  bracted 
peduncle.  The  seed-  BEECHNUT  LEAF,  BUR,  AND  NUT. 

pod,  which  at  maturity,  becomes  a  prickly,  scaly  bur,  con- 
tains a  pair  of  three-sided  nuts,  whose  kernels  are  tender 
and  sweet  flavored.  The  common  beech  of  Europe  is 


WESTERN    CHINKAPIN  BEECH. 

CHINKAPIN. —  i.  Fruiting  Cluster;  2,  2.  Leaves;  3.  Common  Form  of  Fruiting 
Cluster ;  33,  30.  Nut  of  Common  Chinkapin  ;  4.  Spiked  Form  of  Fruiting  Cluster ; 
4a,  4!).  Nut  of  Spiked  Chinkapin. 

[12] 


8 


9 


11 


WESTERN  CHINKAPIN  BEECH. 

CHINKAPIN.— 5.  Tree  Chinkapin  Bur ;    6,    7,    8,    9.   Nuts    of    Tree  Chinkapin. 
BEECH  —  10.  Twig,   Leaf,  Bur,  and  Nut;    u,   12.  Beech  Burs. 

[13] 


14  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

very  similar  to  the  American  beech,  excepting  its  leaves  are 
broader,  but  not  so  long  and  pointed.  The  trees  are  usu- 
ally large,  with  smooth  ash-gray  bark. 

The  early  writers  of  Greece  and  Rome  frequently  refer  to 
this  nut.  Vergil  and  Pliny  speak  highly  of  the  beechnut  as  an 
article  of  food.  Pliny  informs  us  that  at  the  siege  of  Chios, 
the  besieged  inhabitants  lived  upon  the  beechnut  alone  for 
some  time. 

There  are  many  species  of  the  bee' u,  but  thev  are  all 
similar,  some  having  larger  leaves  and  nuts  +hat  others. 
Among  them  are  the  following :  the  Americai  :h,  the 

European  beech,  and  the  Evergreen  beech.      Th-1  -hnut  is 

quite  small,  and  hard  to  gather,  making  it  unproi  1~  to 
gather  them  for  sale.  For  this  reason  very  few  of  +b?n  re 
sold  in  the  markets. 

The  beech-wheat,  more  commonly  Ji  buckwh 

so  named  on  account  of  its  kernels  ha'  ^  Tie  shape  of  the 
beechnut.  The  kernels  are  small  ai  d  ^A-k-brown  color, 
on  the  outside,  and  three-sided,  but  in  ^  ^tion  it  is  more 
like  ordinary  wheat.  Q^'  . 

In  the  forests,  the  beechnut  affords  tc  jr  many  wild 
animals  and  birds.  The  nut  contains  considerable  oil,  and 
i  y  have  experimented  on  extracting  it  for  salads  and  cook- 
in  ,  purposes.  Formerly  beechnut  oil  was  made  in  France  in 
c  :isiderable  quantities  and  used  for  frying  fish  and  as  a 
urvssing  on  salads.  The  country  people  of  Silesia  use  it 
i-  ;tead  of  butter,  and  that  which  remains  after  the  oil  is 
.ken  out,  they  feed  to  swine,  poultry,  and  cattle. 


NUTS  AND  THEIR  HISTORY. 


BRAZIL-NUT. 

Brazil-nuts  are  also  called  Para-nuts  and  cream  nuts.  They 
are  the  triangular  edible  seeds  of  a  South  American  tree, 
belonging  to  the  Myrtle  family  (Berthollctin  c.rccssa). 

The  tree  attains  a  height  of  one  hundred  to  one  hundred 
and  fifty  feet,  and  the  trunks  are  three  to  four  feet  in  diam- 
eter. The  leaves  are  broad,  smooth,  and  about  two  feet  long, 
thick  and  leathery  :  The  fruit  is 
globula  a  form  and  from  four  to 
six  inch.  aa^ieior,  with  a  brit- 

tle husk  p  ^ring  a  hard,  woody 
shel^^^jch  is  closely  packed  with 
the  ~eds  (nuts),  numbering  from 
p  t  e  e  n  to  tw  >/-four.  The 


about 
inch' 


nd  one-half 

having    a 

:e    kernels 

a,  and  very 

nd  delicious 


to    two 
dark,   ir»' 
are  smo 
oily,  havintt 
flavor. 

The  Brazil-nut  is  indigenous  to 
Brazil,     Guiana,     and    Venezuela, 
and     southward    to    Rio    Janeiro. 
They  form  immense  forests  in  the 
valley   of  the    Orinoco    and  Ama- 
zon.      There    is    an  inexhaustible 
supply,    the  only  difficulty  is  in  getting  them  to  the  seapoipj 
towns.      They  are  principally  exported  from  Para.      They  ar 
rich  in  fats,  having  fifty-seven  per  cent. 

A  very  superior  oil  can  be  obtained  from  these  nuts  b\ 
pressure,  but  at  the  present,  their  principal  use  is  in  dessertr 
and  confectionery. 


BRAZIL-NUT. 


i6 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


CASHEW  NUT. 

This  is  a  tropical  American  shrub  or  small  tree,  belonging 
to  the  Cashew  family,  or  Anacardium  occidental.  It  is  now 
naturalized  in  Africa  and  Asia. 

The    tree   is  an  evergreen, 
with    entire,    feather-veined 
leaves.    The  flowers  are  small, 
sweet  scented,  and  of  a  reddish 
color.     The  fleshy  pear-shaped 
receptacle    in    which    the    ca- 
shew nuts  are  borne,  is  some- 
times called  the  cashew  apple. 
The   fruit  is  kid- 
ney shaped.    The 
nut  proper  is  en- 
closed in  a  leath- 
ery covering, 
consisting  of  two 
layers,     between 
which  is  a  caus- 
tic,    oily     sub- 
stance,    exceed- 
ingly acrid  ;    but 


THE  CASHEW  NUT. 


this  is  eliminated 
by  heat,  so  that 
when  the  kernels  are  roasted  they  have  a  pleasant  flavor, 
and  are  highly  esteemed  for  desserts.  Care  must  be  taken 
in  roasting  the  nuts,  as  the  fumes  given  off  during  this  opera- 
tion cause  inflammation  of  the  eyes.  The  nuts  also  yield 
an  excellent  oil. 


NUTS    AND    THEIR    HISTORY. 


CASTANOPSIS, 

The  name  of  this  tree  was  derived  from  Castanca,  the 
chestnut.  It  is  an  evergreen  tree  intermediate  between  the 
oak  and  the  chestnut.  There  are  several  varieties  in  the  Old 
World  and  in 
the  islands  of  the 
sea,  but  only  one 
in  this  country, 
and  that  is  on 
the  Pacific  Coast. 

W  here  the 
climate  is  moist, 
the  castanopsis 
becomes  a  large 
tree  from  fifty  to 
one  hundred  feet 
high,  with  a 
trunk  from  two 
to  three  feet  in 
diameter,  but  in 
the  dry  regions 
of  California,  it 
is  a  mere  shrub.  CASTANOPSIS  BUR  AND  KERNEL. 

C.  S.  Sargent,  in  his  work  entitled  "  Woods  of  the  United 
States,"  says  as  follows  :    "  This  handsome  broad-leaved  ever- 
green tree  is  indigenous  to  the  elevated  regions, 
from   Monterey,    Cal.,    northward    to    the    Col- 
umbia   River  in  Oregon. 

"  It  is  also  common  in  the  Sierra  Nevadas 
at  elevations  of  six  thousand  feet,  but  in  its 
southern  limits  rarely  below  ten  thousand  feet 
elevation." 


CASTANOPSIS 
NUT. 


I  8  <UTIDK    FOR    NTT    COOKERY. 

The  leaves  are  oblong-lanceolate,  growing  from  one  to 
four  inches  long.  The  fruit  is  enclosed  in  an  involucre,  or 
bur,  covered  with  stout,  divergent  spines  from  one-half  inch 
to  one  inch  in  length.  There  is  usually  only  one  nut  in  a 
bur,  but  several  burs  grow  on  one  twig. 

The  nut  is  small,  conical  in  form,  slightly  triangular, 
with  a  firm,  brittle  shell,  not  fibrous  like  the  chestnut  or 
acorn.  The  kernels  are  sweet  and  the  flavor  excellent. 
They  are  greedily  eaten  by  birds  as  well  as  squirrels.  The 
nuts  do  not  ripen  the  first  season,  but  stay  on  the  trees 
through  the  winter,  and  become  fully  matured  about  the 
middle  of  the  next  summer. 

CHESTNUT. 

The  chestnut  belongs  to  the  Oak  family  and  to  the  group 
C  'nsfanca.  The  sterile  flowers  cluster  in  long  catkins,  and 
appear  in  the  axils  of  the  leaves.  The  fertile  flowers  are 
near  the  base  of  the  last  sessile  catkin,  from  one  to  seven  in 
3.  cluster,  having  a  calyx  from  four  to  six  lobed,  crowning 
the  three-  to  seven-celled  ovary,  which  becomes  a  scaly, 
prickly  bur. 

The  chestnut  is  a  tall-growing  tree.  Travelers  describe 
the  monarchs  of  Etna  as  being  trees  of  immense  size  The 
Roman  writers  who  have  written  on  rural  affairs,  mention  the 
chestnut  as  a  valuable  food-producing  tree,  but  Piiny,  who 
describes  several  varieties  of  the  chestnut,  seems  to  place 
more  value  upon  the  timber  than  on  the  nut.  There  are 
three  principal  subdivisions :  the  European  chestnut,  the 
American,  and  the  Chinkapin. 

The  European  variety  has  long,  lanceolate,  pointed  eaves, 
smooth  on  both  sides,  and  much  thicker  than  the  leaves  of 
any  other  variety. 


NUTS    AND    THEIR    HISTORY.  I  9 

The  burs  are  very  large,  covered  with  long,  branching 
spines.  The  nut  shell  is  thick  and  tough,  and  of  a  dark, 
mahogany-brown  color.  This  variety  is  characterized  by  the 
kernels  being  wrapped  in  a  tough  skin  that  is  intensely  bitter. 

There  are  many  varieties  of  this  group,  among  them  the 
Japan  chestnut,  the  Numbo,  the  Paragon,  Ridgely,  Comfort, 
Cooper,  Carson,  and  many  others. 


OPEN  BUR  OF  THE  RIDGELY  CHESTNUT. 

The  European  chestnut  has  been  so  frequently  and  ex- 
tensively referred  to  by  ancient  and  modern  authors  that  it 
would  not  be  at  all  difficult  to  fill  a  large  volume  with  brief 
extracts  from  their  works.  All  who  have  had  any  experience 
with  it  admit  its  value  as  food  for  many  wild  and  domestic 
animals,  as  well  as  for  the  human  race. 

The  European  chestnut  is  much  larger  than  those  indige- 


>T\  i  '  )  ^*i  f 

,»<*•-   i   $ 

,.<  ;,•?••  V.  •' 


CHESTNUTS. 

i.  A    Small,    Wild    Form;    2.  Murrell  ;    3.  Hulse  ,    4.    Excelsior;     5.   Ketcham , 
'ild     Form;     7.    Watson;     8.    Otto;     9.    Dulaney ;      10.    Griffin;       11.    Numbo ; 
12.  Ridgely  ;    13.  Japan  Giant. 

[20] 


NUTS    AND    THEIR    HISTORY.  21 

nous  to  America,  and  many  have  tried  growing  them  here  ; 
but  only  a  few  have  succeeded  in  making  them  grow,  though 
after  they  are  once  started  they  are  quite  hardy.  There  are 
a  few  nice  groves  of  the  Japan,  Numbo,  and  Paragon  chest- 
nuts, species  of  the  European  variety,  growing  on  Long 
Island  and  in  New  Jersey. 

The  American  chestnut  has  oblong-lanceolate  serrate 
leaves,  smooth  on  both  sides.  The  bur,  which  usually  con- 
tains three  nuts,  is  thickly  covered  with  long,  branching 
spines,  becoming  woody,  and  opening  by  four  valves. 

The  nuts  have  a  dark-brown  shell,  which  is  tough  and 
leathery.  The  kernels  are  fine  grained  and  sweet.  The 
trees  are  common  in  the  Middle  and  Northern  States ;  they 
grow  very  large  and  live  to  a  great  age.  Some  of  the  varie- 
ties of  this  group  are  the  Burless  and  the  Hathaway. 

The  Chinkapin  is  the  smallest  of  the  chestnut  family ; 
its  leaves  are  broadly  oval,  coarsely  serrate,  pale  green 
above,  and  silvery  white  below.  The  burs  are  in  long 
racemes,  covered  with  long,  branching,  sharp  spines,  contain- 
ing only  one,  top-shaped,  glossy-black  nut  in  each  bur.  The 
kernels  are  sweet.  Fuller's  Chinkapin,  common  Chinka- 
pin, and  the  Bush  Chinkapin,  are  in  this  group. 

The  chestnut  ranks  high  in  nutritive  value,  containing 
eighty-nine  per  cent,  of  nutrition,  —  fourteen  and  six-tenths 
per  cent,  of  albuminous  element,  sixty-nine  per  cent,  of 
starch,  two  and  four-tenthsper_cent._of  fats,  and  three  and 
three-tenths  per  cent,  of  salts. 

As  they  contain  so  much  starch,  they  are  more  easily 
digested  if  cooked  before  being  eaten.  For  more  than  a 
thousand  years,  this  nut  has  been  an  important  article  of  diet 
for  the  poorer  class  of  Southern  Europe.  In  some  of  the 
mountain  districts,  it  is  almost  the  staff  of  life.  Chestnuts 
are  not  only  used  in  their  raw  state,  but  are  boiled,  roasted, 


22 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


and  even   dried  and  ground  into  flour,  which  is  made  into  a 
coarse  but   nutritious  kind  of  bread. 


CHUFA     (EARTH  ALMOND). 

Chufa  is  a  grass-like  plant,  indigenous  to  the  countries 
bordering  on  the  Mediterranean  Sea,  and  cultivated  for  its 

nut-like,  sweet  tu- 
bers, called  Chufa 
or  Earth  Alrn- 
onds. 

It  belongs  to 
the  Sedge  family 
(Cypcracenc),  and 
botanically  is 
called  C  y  p  c  r  jt  s 
Escutciitus.  The 
leaves  resemble 
coarse  marsh 
grass.  The  plant 
produces  small  , 
oblong  tubers  in 
abundance,  which 
are  rich  in  fats 
and  very  sweet, 
tasting  like  the 
almond,  but  hav- 
ing a  better  flavor.  An  excellent  milk  may  be  made  from 
them,  which  can  be  used  for  shortening. 

They  can  be  easily  grown,  by  planting  them  in  drills  like 
peas.  Seed  Chufa  can  be  obtained  at  Ruckbee's  seed  store, 
Rockford,  111.  These  nuts  generally  go  by  the  name  of 
Chufus,  or  Earth  Almonds. 


CHUTA  NUT. 


NUTS    AND    THEIR    HISTORY.  23 

COCOANUT. 

The  cocoanut  is  the  largest  edible  nut  in  our  markets,  and 
is  very  widely  known.  It  is  sold  in  the  markets  with  the 
outer  husk  removed,  but  with  long,  bristly  fibers  adhering  to 
the  very  hard,  thick  shell  lined  by  the  white  meat,  which  sur- 
rounds the  watery  fluid  called  cocoanut  milk.  They  a.e  large 
in  size,  ranging  from  six  to  twelve  inches  long,  and  three  to 
six  inches  in  diameter.  They  are  borne  on  lofty  tree-like 
palms  (Pahiuc  or  Palinacac),  which  are  natives  of  Africa, 
India,  and  the  islands  of  the  Indian  and  Pacific  Oceans. 
They  grow  sixty  to  ninety  feet  high,  and  have  pinnate  leaves 
from  ten  to  twenty  feet  long.  The  nuts  hang  at  the  base  of 
the  leaves,  in  clusters  of  from  eighteen  to  twenty.  This  tree 
yields  cocoanuts,  drink,  fuel,  and  clothing,  and  is  the  most 
useful  of  all  trees,  thriving  only  near  the  seacoast,  or  where 
the  sea  breezes  reach  it. 

The  natives  eat  this  nut  in  its  immature  state,  when  the 
flesh  is  soft  and  very  much  like  a  delicious  custard.  It  can 
be  eaten  from  the  shell  with  a  spoon.  In  this  stage  it  is  very 
easy  of  digestion  ;  but  when  it  becomes  mature,  it  is  quite 
woody,  and  hard  of  digestion.  In  this  country  it  is  princi- 
pally used  for  flavoring,  and  for  its  oil,  in  which  it  is  very 
rich,  containing  thirty-six  per  cent,  of  fats,  eight  per  cent,  of 
albuminous  material,  and  one  per  cent,  of  salts. 

The  oil  consists  of  a  peculiar  substance  called  cocinin,  a 
combination  of  fatty  acids  and  a  very  small  quantity  of  olein. 
The  cocoanut-oil  is  liquid  at  eighty  degrees  ;  below  this  tem- 
perature, down  to  fifty  degrees,  it  is  of  the  consistency  of 
lard  ;  and  below  that  temperature  it  is  quite  hard.  Under 
pressure,  the  oil  separates,  forming  not  only  a  liquid  but  a 
solid  substance.  The  solid  portion,  called  "cocoa  stearin," 
is  manufactured  into  a  butter  called  "cocoanut  stearin,"  and 


COCOANUT. 


-4] 


NUTS    AND    THEIR    HISTORY. 

used  for  lubricating  the  skin  in  giving  massages,  etc.  The 
stearin  is  also  used  for  making  candles.  The  cocoanut-oil  is 
utilized  in  manufacturing  toilet  and  fullers'  soaps. 

There  is  a  company  in  the  United  States  that  manufac- 
tures a  butter  from  the  cocoanut  which  they  call  "  Nutcoa. " 
It  is  of  a  clear,  whitish  color,  and  is  composed  wholly  of  fats. 
It  is  better  for  cooking  purposes  than  for  table  use,  although 
it  is  finding  its  way  to  the  tables  of  the  poorer  classes  as  a 
substitute  for  oleomargarin.  It  is,  of  course,  free  from  tuber- 
cular germs,  by  which  so  many  of  the  cattle  of  this  country 
are  afflicted. 

In  countries  where  they  are  indigenous,  cocoanuts  are 
used  in  many  ways.  The  young  and  tender  sprouts  are 
cooked  as  we  would  prepare  asparagus.  A  cream  is  made 
by  grating  the  cocoanut  fine,  and  rubbing  it  well  with  the 
hands  in  as  warm  water  as  possible.  The  oily  part,  perfectly 
emulsified,  rises  to  the  surface,  and  is  poured  off,  leaving  the 
coarser  part  to  settle  to  the  bottom.  Cocoanut  cream  is 
excellent  on  grains,  or  for  seasoning  other  foods.  The  oil 
can  be  made  by  grating  and  rubbing  like  the  above,  and  then 
boiling  for  an  hour  or  more  in  plenty  of  water.  When  cold, 
the  oil  will  rise  and  the  woody  portion  will  settle  to  the  bottom. 

The  husk,  or  fibrous  pericarp  of  the  cocoanut,  is  termed 
"coir,"  and  is  used  in  various  ways.  Coir  is  prepared  by 
soaking  the  husks  for  several  months  in  water,  and  then  beat- 
ing with  heavy  weights.  Coir  yarn  is  imported  into  America, 
and  is  preferable  to  horse  hair  for  stuffing  mattresses,  cush- 
ions, chairs,  and  saddles,  as  it  is  indestructible  and  never 
harbors  vermin.  It  may  also  be  made  into  very  strong,  light 
rope,  formerly  of  great  value  to  seamen,  as  it  floats  in  water 
and  is  unaffected  by  it.  Coir  is  also  made  into  mats  ;  and 
the  twisted  and  braided  fibers  are  used  by  the  Polynesians  in 
the  place  of  nails  in  the  construction  of  houses  and  canoes. 


26 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


The  small  and  immature  nuts  are  grated  fine  while  green, 
and  used  for  medicinal  purposes.  A  healing  salve  may  be 
made  from  the  unripe  nuts,  by  mixing  with  the  oil  of  the  ripe 
nut.  The  trunks  of  the  trees  are  used  for  building  purposes. 


FILBERT,  OR  HAZELNUT. 

The  hazelnut  is  a  bush  or  small  tree,  belonging  to  the 
Oak  family  (Cupulifcne),  producing  edible  nuts  of  a  dark- 
brown  color.  The  staminate  flower  appears  in  the  autumn, 
in  cylindrical  catkins,  remaining  on  the  plant  all  winter,  and 
becoming  fully  developed  to  shed  their  pollen  early  in  the 
spring.  The  pistillate  flowers  appear  very  early  in  the  spring, 
before  the  leaves,  during  the  warm  days  of  March  or  April. 
The  bright  red  stigmas  push  through  the  ends  of  the  buds, 
dropping  off  as  soon  as  fertilized.  The  tree  may  then  remain 

without  leaves  for  several 
weeks. 

All  the  varieties  which 
have  long,   fringed  husks 
extending   beyond    the 
nut,    are    filberts ;     while 
COMMON  FILBERT  AND  ITS  KERNEL.          those     whose     husks      are 

shorter  than  the  nut,  are  hazels  ;  this  word  being  derived 
from  the  Anglo-Saxon  word  Jucscl,  meaning  a  hood  or  bonnet. 

The  filbert  has  been  celebrated  from  ancient  times,  both 
in  prose  and  poetry.  Vergil  says  it  has  been  more  honored 
than  the  vine,  the  myrtle,  or  the  bay  itself.  Formerly  a 
forked  twig  of  the  hazel  was  used  as  a  divining-rod  for  finding 
hidden  treasures,  veins  of  metals,  subterranean  streams  of 
water,  and  even  pointing  out  criminals. 

There   are  many  varieties  ;  the   two   principal  ones  being 


the  American  and  European  filberts. 


Among 


the  American 


.NUTS    AND    THEIR    HISTORY.  2 7 

varieties  the  Corylus  American  (Walters)  and  Corylus Ro strata 
Alton  are  the  best.  Among  the  best  of  the  European  varieties 
are  the  Corvlits  Avcllana  (Linn),  Alba,  or  white  filbert, 
Cosford,  Crispa,  Lamberts,  Grandis  or  round,  Cobnut,  pur- 
ple-leaved filbert,  red  filbert,  and  Spanish  filbert. 

The  hazelnut  is  very  high   in  nutritive  value,  and  one  of 


LARGE    SEEDLING   HAZELNUT. 

the  very  best  for  general  use.  It  contains  seventeen  and 
four-tenths  per  cent,  of  albuminous  elements,  seven  and  two- 
tenths  per  cent,  of  starch,  sixty-two  and  six-tenths  per  cent, 
of  fats,  and  two  and  five-tenths  per  cent,  of  salts,  making 
a  total  value  of  eighty-nine  and  seven-tenths  per  cent. 


HAZELS. 

i,  2,  3,  4.  Imported  Nuts,  derived  from  Corylus  Avellana ;    5.  A  Seedling  derived 

from   Corylus  Avellana;    5a.  Portion    of   Twig,  showing  Winter  Bud;    5a'.  Dormant 

Pistillate  Buds;  53".  Dormant  Staminate  Catkins;    6,  7.  Specimens  of  Imported  Nuts; 

American  Hazel  with  Open  Involucre ;   9.  American  Ha/el  with  Closed  Involucre. 

[28] 


18  a 


HAZELS. 


18  d 


18c 


10,  II,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16.  Varying  Forms  and  Sizes;  17.  Typical  Cluster; 
18.  Cluster  showing  Fruiting  Habit;  i8a.  Side  view  of  Nut;  i8b.  I'.asal  view  of 
Nut;  i8c.  Section  of  Nut  showing  Kernel;  i8d.  Kernel. 

[29] 


3O  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

GROUNDNUT. 

The  groundnut  is  a  tuber  of  a  widely  distributed  climb- 
ing plant,  common  in  low,  wet  grounds,  almost  everywhere, 
from  Canada  to  Florida,  and  westward  to  the  Mississippi. 
This  plant  is  described  in  most  of  the  botanical  works  of  the 
present  day  under  the  name  of  Apios  Tnbcrosa,  and  belongs 
to  the  Pulse  family  (Lcgntninoscic).  It  is  a  perennial  twining 
vine,  with  pinnate  leaves  and  dense  racemes  ot  small,  brown- 
ish-purple, pea-shaped  flowers.  The  subterranean  rootstocks 
bear  long  strings  of  edible  tubers,  which  are  round,  some  as 
large  as  walnuts,  and  some  a  great  deal  larger.  They  are 
dark-brown  on  the  outside,  but  white  within.  When  boiled 
or  roasted,  they  have  a  rich,  farinaceous,  nutty  flavor. 

HICKORY-NUT. 

The  hickory-nut  belongs  to  the  Juglandacctf,  or  Walnut 
family,  and  to  the  group  Carya.  Of  this  there  are  several 
varieties:  The  Carya  Oliru'fonnis,  (pecan-nut),  Alba  (shell- 
bark  or  shagbark),  Sulcata,  (Western  shellbark),  Tomcntosa 
(mockernut,  or  white  heart  hickory-nut),  Amara  (bitter- 
nut),  Poreina  (or  pignut),  and  the  Aquatica,  or  water  hick- 
ory. Among  these,  the  first  two  are  the  most  valuable  for 
the  nuts,  although  the  other  varieties  are  quite  as  good  for 
timber. 

The  sterile  flowers  are  in  long,  cylindrical  catkins,  three 
in  a  cluster,  on  a  common  peduncle  ;  the  leaflets  are  sessile  or 
nearly  so,  of  from  five  to  thirteen  leaflets.  The  nuts  are 
globular,  or  short  oval,  sweet,  edible,  and  enclosed  in  a  husk 
which  opens  by  four  valves.  The  shellbark,  or  shagbark,  is 
considered  the  best  variety  for  eating  purposes;  it  is  so  called 
on  account  of  the  bark  of  the  trunk  being  shaggy  and  sepa- 


BRANCH  WITH  BURS  OF  NUSSBANNER'S  HYBRID  HICKORY. 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


rating  in  rough  strips.  The  nuts  are  variable  in  size,  mainly 
thin-shelled  and  white  ;  the  kernels  are  large,  sweet,  and 
excellent  ;  it  is  one  of  the  most  popular  of  nuts,  the  demand 
being  almost  unlimited. 

The  Western  shellbark  differs  from  the  preceding,  in 
having  a  lighter-colored  wood,  the  leaves  more  downy,  and 

the  nuts  larger,  measuring  two 
inches  long,  and  pointed  at 
both  ends.  The  kernels  are 
smaller  in  proportion  to  the 
size  of  the  nut  than  in  the  pre- 
ceding, but  are  easily  removed 
from  the  shell. 

The  variety  known  as  the 
Hales  hickory  has  the  thin- 
nest shell  and  plumpest  kernels 
of  any  of  the  hickories.  The 
shell  is  not  much  thicker  than 
a  pecan  shell,  and  has  no  sharp 
ridges  running  from  the  base  to 
Wi  STERN  SHELLBARK  HICKORY.  tne  point  as  [n  other  varieties. 

The  mocker  hickory-nut  and  others  of  similar  kinds,  have 
smaller  nuts,  with  thick,  hard,  shells  ;  though  sweet,  they 
are  small,  and  very  difficult  to  remove  from  the  shell,  and  on 
this  account,  they  are  of  little  value. 

The  bitter-nut  is  similar  to  those  of  the  above  variety,  but 
the  kernels  are  intensely  bitter,  but  when  in  the  milky  state 
are  greedily  eaten  by  the  squirrels. 

The  pignut  and  water  hickory  also  have  bitter  kernels. 

The  hickory-nut  is  strictly  an  American  nut,  being  found 
only  on  the  Western  continent.  The  early  white  settlers 
found  the  Indians  using  the  hickory-nut  in  many  ways  and 
storing  large  quantities  of  them  for  winter  food,  sometimes 


SHELLBARK    HICKORIES. 

VARIATION  IN  FORM  OF  WILD  NUTS.  —  i.  Quadrangular;    2.  Roundish;    2l>.  Hull 
of  Roundish;    3.  Oval;    4.  Long    Ovate;     5.  Roundish     Oblique;    6.  Ovate    Oblique. 

->  I  ••  '  1 

j  :  j  •  J 


u 


SHAGBARK  HICKORIES. 

VARIATION  IN  FORM  OK  WILD  NUTS.— i.  Ovate;  ib.  Portion  of  Hull  of  Ovate  ; 
2.  Long  Ovate;  3.  Quadrangular:  4.  Ohovate  ;  5.  Shinar ;  6.  Meriden  ;  7.  Jacksnn  : 
8.  Milford;  9.  Rice;  10.  Woodhourne. 

f-H] 


5  a/ 


MISCELLANEOUS  HICKORIES. 

MOCKER  NTT;  FORMS  OK  WILD  NUT.— i.  Oval;  2.  Roundish;  3.  Roundish 
Oblique;  3!).  Hull  of  Roundish  Oblique.  PIG  NUT.  — 4.  Bracket;  4b.  Nut  of 
Bracket  in  Hull;  5.  Fig-Shaped;  Sa.  Nut  of  Fig-Shaped  in  Hull;  6.  Roundish  Nut 
in  Hull;  7.  Specimen  from  W.  R.  Stuart;  8.  Nut  and  portion  of  Hull  of  a  Water 
Hickory. 

1351 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

one  family  having  one  hundred  bushels.  They  had  no  mills 
in  which  to  grind  them,  but  they  made  them  fine  by  pound- 
ing and  putting  them  into  boiling  water,  working  them  well 
with  a  wooden  paddle.  The  oily  part  of  the  liquid  was  pre- 
served and  called  by  a  name  which  signifies  "hickory  milk." 
It  is  rich,  sweet,  and  delicious,  the  fat  being  in  the  form  of 
an  emulsion,  like  cream.  The  Indians  used  it  in  cooking, 
especially  in  hominy  and  corn  cakes.  As  nut  foods  are  com- 
ing into  such  general  use,  there  may  come  a  day  in  the  future 
when  hickory  milk  will  be  again  in  vogue,  and  be  more 
highly  esteemed  by  the  civilized  people  than  it  was  by  the 
aborigines. 

LITCHI  (LEECHEE  NUT). 

The  Litchi  nut  is  more  of  a  fruit  than  a  nut.  The  tree 
grows  in  southern  China  and  the  Philippine  Islands,  and  be- 
longs to  the  Soapberry  family  (Sapindaccce). 

The  tree  grows  about 
twenty-five  feet  high  with 
sturdy  twigs  and  branches  ; 
the  leaves  are  composed  of 
seven  oblong,  pointed  leaf- 
lets. It  is  said  to  be  one  of 
the  most  popular  of  Oriental 
fruits.  These  trees  are  now 
on  trial  in  Florida,  being 

introduced  in  1886. 
LITCHI  NUT.  ,,      , 

In  the  last  few  years,  this 

fruit  has  appeared  in  the  markets  of  our  large  cities,  in  con- 
sequence of  the  increased  trade  w^ith  Oriental  countries  and 
facilities  for  rapid  transit  across  the  continent. 

The  fruit  is  globular  in  form  about  one  inch  in  diameter, 
with. a  thin,  chocolate-brown  colored  shell  covered  with  wart- 


NUTS    AND    THEIR    HISTORY.  37 

like  protuberances.  When  fresh,  the  shell  is  filled  with  a 
jelly-like  pulp  of  a  most  delicious  sub-acid  flavor,  but  is 
often  rather  dry  and  stale  in  the  nuts  before  it  reaches  our 
markets.  It  has  one  smooth,  brown  seed  in  the  center  of  the 
fruit. 

PEANUT. 

The  peanut  is  the  fruit  of  a  trailing  plant,  botanically 
called  Arachis  Jiypogcea,  which  belongs  to  the  bean  family 
(Le-guminosce).  It  is  known  in  different  localities  as  the 
earthnut,  groundnut,  ground-pea,  goober,  pindar,  jar-nut, 
and  Manila-nut.  Strictly  speaking,  it  is  not  a  nut  at  all, 
and  should  more  properly  be  called  the  ground-pea.  The 
plants  are  annuals,  growing  from  one  to  two  feet  high,  with 
thick,  pale-green,  hairy  stems  ;  some  varieties  have  long, 
spreading  branches.  The  blossom  is  at  the  end  of  a  long, 
pedicel-like  calyx  tube,  the  ovary  being  at  the  base  ;  after  the 
blossom  drops  off,  the  peduncle  or  "spike"  with  the  ovary 
on  the  end  elongates  and  bends  downward,  pushing  several 
inches  into  the  ground,  where  the  ovaries  develop  into  a  pale 
yellowish,  wrinkled,  and  slightly  curved  pod,  often  contracted 
in  the  middle,  and  containing  from  one  to  three  seeds. 
Should  the  spike  not  be  able  to  thrust  itself  into  the 
ground  within  a  fewr  hours  after  the  fall  of  the  flower,  it 
withers  and  dies.  It  is  therefore  very  necessary  that  the 
ground  should  be  kept  as  light  and  porous  as  possible  to. 
insure  a  good  crop. 

The  "Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  25,"  published  by  the  Agri- 
cultural Department  of  the  United  States,  treats  upon  the 
culture  of  peanuts,  and  names  the  following  varieties  :  - 

"The  Virginia  running  variety  of  the  peanut,  being  most 
widely  known  and  most  popular  with  the  trade,  may  be  taken 
as  the  typical  American  peanut.  Its  vines  are  large,  with 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


spreading  branches,  growing  flat  on  the  ground  and  bearing 
pods  over  almost  their  entire  length.  The  pods  are  large 
and  white,  weighing  about  twenty-two  pounds  to  the  bushel. 


I  i  \.NTT  PLANT  ('VIRGINIA  RUNNING  VARIETY). 

"The  Virginia  bunch  variety  grows  erect  and  fruits  near 
the  tap-root,  but  produces  pods  very  closely  resembling  those 
above  described. 

"There  are  two  varieties  in  Tennessee,  the  white  and  red, 
the  white  closely  resembling  the  Virginia  running  variety,  and 

the  red  producing  somewhat 
smaller  pods  with  kernels  hav- 
ing a  dark  red  skin.  This  vari- 
ety matures  earlier  than  the 
white,  yields  fewer  pops,  or  im- 
perfect pods,  has  a  less  spread- 
ing habit,  and  on  account  of  this 
difference  in  growth  is  perhaps 
somewhat  more  easily  cultivated. 
KERNELS  OF  VIRGINIA  PEANUT.  -The  North  Carolina  (or 

African)  variety  grown  in  Wilmington  section  of  the  State 
has  much  smaller  pods  than  those  just  described,  weighing 
twenty-eight  pounds  to  the  bushel  ;  the  kernels  contain  more 
oil  than  those  of  other  varieties. 


POD  OF  THE  VIRGINIA  PEANUT. 


NUTS    AND    THEIR    HISTORY.  39 

"  The  Spanish  variety  has  a  relatively  small,  upright  vine, 
forms  small  pods  near  the  tap-root,  and  can  be  planted  much 
closer  together  than  any  of  the  others,  thus  producing  a  very 
heavy  crop  to  the  acre.  The  North  Louisiana  Station  found 
the  Spanish  a  desirable  variety,  easily  harvested,  all  of  the 
pods  adhering  to  the  vine.  It  required  a  much  shorter  period 
to  mature,  and  planted  as  late  as  July  i,  matured  a  full  crop 
in  that  latitude  before  frost.  The  pods  filled  out  well,  form- 
ing few  if  any  pops. 

"The  Georgia  red-nut,  like  the  similar  variety  in  Ten- 
nessee, has  medium-sized  vines  growing  up  from  the  ground 
and  fruiting  principally  near  the  tap  root,  with  three  or  four 
kernels  to  the  pod. 

"These  comprise  all  the  varieties  cultivated  in  this 
country,  but  in  Costa  Rica  there  is  a  variety  with  long  pods, 
without  divisions,  containing  four  or  rive  seeds,  and  in  the 
Argentine  Republic  a  large-sized  variety  with  a  deep,  orange- 
colored  shell.  In  the  Malay  Archipelago  there  are  two 
varieties,  called  the  white  and  brown,  resembling  probably 
the  white  and  red  Tennessee  varieties,  excepting  as  to  size. 

"The  peanut  of   India  and  Africa 
resembles  the  North  Carolina  variety 
in    size,    and   is   raised  principally  for 
the  oil  which  is  contained  in   its  ker- 
nels."     The  varieties  which  are   usu-    POD  OF  SPANISH  PEANUT. 
ally  sold  in  the  markets,  appear  under 
the  following  names  :   Spanish  (shelled) 
are  small  and  nearly  round,    having  a 
sweet  and  mild  flavor  ;    they  are  never         SPANISH  PEANUT. 
sold  in  the  pod,  as  they  are  so  tight  to  the  peanut  that  they 
are  hard  to  break  open.      This  variety  is  considered  the  best 
for  butter-making,  although  some  prefer  the  Virginia. 

"The  Virgina  (shelled)  peanut  is  larger  than  the  Spanish 


4O  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

nut,  having  a  stronger  peanut  flavor,  but  equally  rich  in  oil. 
These  are  usually  assorted  into  three  grades,  the  Nos.  I  and  2, 
and  the  Extra  Large,  Hand-picked.  The  No.  2  nuts  are 
small,  shrivelled,  and  split  ;  they  are  therefore  difficult  to 
roast  and  blanch,  and  make  an  inferior  grade  of  butter. 

"Statistics  tell  us  that  there  are  4,000,000  bushels  of 
nuts  used  yearly  by  Americans,  which  cost  the  consumers 
$10,000,000,  and  that  fully  three  fourths  of  this  amount  was 
sold  to  venders  of  the  roasted  peanut,  either  directly  or 
through  jobbing  houses,  and  the  remainder  and  poorer  grade 
of  the  peanuts  are  sold  to  confectioners,  to  be  used  in  the 
manufacture  of  peanut  candy  and  cheaper  grades  of  choco- 
lates. A  small  amount  is  also  sold  to  be  made  into  oil.  Thus, 
it  will  be  seen  that  the  greatest  part  of  the  peanuts  that  have 
been  used  by  Americans,  has  not  formed  a  part  of  the  regular 
articles  of  food,  but  are  eaten  at  odd  times. 

"The  peanut  planter  makes  use  of  the  vine,  under  the 
name  of  peanut  hay,  which  is  carefully  saved  and  fed  to  all 
kinds  of  live  stock.  They  also  use  the  thin  skins  enclosing 
the  kernel,  as  a  fodder.  The  vines,  when  plowed  under  just 
before  blossoming,  are  an  excellent  fertilizer,  and  are  con- 
sidered better  than  clover  to  enrich  the  soil.  The  peanut  has 
been  valued  most  for  the  oil  which  it  contains.  In  the  Old 
World  millions  of  bushels  of  peanuts  are  being  used  annually 
for  the  production  of  oil,  which  is  considered  equal  to  olive- 
oil,  and  may  be  used  in  every  way  in  which  that  is  em- 
ployed. This  oil  forms  from  thirty  to  fifty  per  cent,  (by 
weight)  of  the  shelled  nut.  It  has  an  agreeable  taste  and 
smell  and  very  much  resembles  the  olive-oil,  so  much  so 
that  a  great  deal  of  the  olive-oil  sold  in  the  country  is 
nothing  but  peanut  oil. 

"During  the  years  between  1861  and  1865,  peanut  oil 
was  manufactured  bv  at  least  four  mills  in  the  Southern 


NUTS    AND    THEIR    HISTORY. 


States,  and  used  as  a  lubricant  by  railroads  for  locomotives, 
by  wool  and  cotton  spinners  for  their  spindles,  and  by  house- 
wives instead  of  lard  as  shortening  in  bread  and  pastry.  The 
cake  was  eaten  by  many  living  in  the  vicinity  of  the  mills, 
and  was  very  highly  spoken  of  by  those  who  used  it,  as  a 
palatable  and  nutritious  food  for  man." 

Thus  we  see  that  over  thirty  years  ago,  peanuts  were  not 
only  used  as  titbits  between  meals,  but  also  for  culinary  pur- 
poses. But  since  the  invention  of  machinery  for  family  use, 
for  grinding  the  nuts  into  a  butter,  their  use  has  spread  over  a 
greater  territory.  This  is  partly  due  to  the  fact  that  the 
expense  is  thus  lessened,  and  not  only  this,  but  because  the 
nut  as  it  comes  from  the  mill  is  in  a  much  healthier  condition 
to  eat,  being  easier  of  digestion  than  the  oil  or  the  raw  resi- 
due that  remains  after  the  oil  is  taken  out.  The  nut  butter 
can  be  easily  mixed  with  water,  forming  an  emulsion,  and  by 
thinning  it  sufficiently,  it  makes  an  excellent  substitute  for 
cream  and  milk.  It  can  also  be  made  into  various  nut  foods. 

The  following  is  a  comparison  made  by  Professor  Konig, 
based  on  the  price  in  Germany  of  the  following  twelve  prin- 
cipal foods  reduced  to  units  of  nutrition:- 


Ni'TRiTivE  VMT^- 
PER  POUND. 

COST  i.oco  UNITS 

IN  CENTS. 

Skim-milk  

08.2 

IO.4. 

Skim-milk  cheese 

87O.O 

II.  O 

Full  milk  

I4S.  *\ 

ii.  5 

Bacon     .                   .                   .... 

I,  2S7.7 

I£    c 

Butter      

1,186.3 

20.  4. 

Veal  

^-S.Q 

^2   ^ 

Beef. 

S^O.Q 

26.O 

Peas  

778.6 

4.  2 

Potatoes  .... 

1^8.2 

V  I 

Rve  flour  

603.6 

6.0 

Rice  

T  ^J.,6 

IO.O 

Peanut  meal      

1  ,  4.  2  S  .  O 

-',.(' 

GUIDE    FOR    NUT  'COOKERY. 


It  follows,  therefore,  that  peanut  meal  is  not  only  the 
most  nutritious,  but  by  far  the  cheapest  of  the  whole  list  of 
food  materials. 

PECANS. 

The  pecan  is  a  variety  of  the  hickory-nut,  growing  in  the 
valley  of  the  Mississippi  River  and  its  tributaries  as  far  north 
as  Ohio.  It  is  also  found  very  plentifully  in  Texas.  The 
trees  are  tall  but  usually  slender,  with  nearly  a  smooth  bark, 
the  leaves  having  from  thirteen  to  fifteen  leaflets.  There  are 


SHORT  OVAL  PECAN. 


OVAL  PECAN  NUT. 


KERNEL  OF  PECAN. 


many  varieties  of  the  pecan  varying  in  size,  form,  and  thick- 
ness of  shell  :  the  large,  long  pecan,  the  oval  pecans,  and 
the  small  oval.  Some  of  the  wild  varieties  receive  local 
names. 

Among  the  cultivated  sorts,  the  Stuart,  Risien,  Van  De- 
man,  Ladyfinger,  Early  Texas,  Georgia  Melon,  Longfellow, 
and  Ribera  are  some  of  the  best  varieties  for  eating.  The 
pecan  is  very  nutritious  and  in  composition  is  very  nearly  the 
same  as  the  walnut,  to  which  family  it  belongs,  and  is  excel- 
lent for  shortening  cakes,  making  roasts,  or  in  mince  pies. 


10 


PECANS. 

VARIATIONS  IN  FORM  OF  WILD  NIT.  -I.  Round  Conical;  2.  Roundish  Trun- 
cate; 3.  Olive-Shaped  ;  4.  Long  Conical;  5.  Globular  ;  6.  Elongated.  VARYING 
CHARACTERISTICS  IN'DEHISCENCE.— 7.  Nut-Retaining;  8.  Nut-Releasing;  9.  Thick 
Hulled.  DETERIORATION  OK  SEEDLINGS. -10.  j  .  Large  Nut  from  Texas;  n.  A 
Seedling  from  No.  10.  NAMED  VARIETIES.—  12.  Tost ;  13.  Biloxi ;  14.  Risien  ; 
IS-  Young.  [43j 


PECANS. 


^AMED  VARIETIES,  -i.  Pearl;  2.  Idlewild  ;  3.  4.  Fausl  ;  5.  Frotscher  ;  6.  Mc- 
Callister;  7.  Jumbo  ;  8,  Centennial;  9.  Van  Deman  ;  10.  Mammoth  ;  11.  Stuart; 
12.  Jewett. 


[44] 


NUTS    AND    THEIR    HISTORY. 


45 


SAPUCAIA-NUT. 

This  is  the  Brazilian  name  of  a  large  forest  tree  growing 
in  the  valley  of  the  Amazon.  Botanically  it  is  called  Lccy- 
f/iis  Zabucajo  and  belongs  to  the  Myrtle  family.  It  is  closely 
allied  to  the  Brazil-nut,  but  is  superior  to  that  in  flavor  and 
digestibility.  The  nuts  are  produced 
in  an  urn-shaped  capsule  about  six 
inches  in  diameter,  having  a  circular 
lid  about  two  inches  across,  which, 
when  the  nut-like  seeds  inside  are 
ripe,  separates  from  the  fruit  with  a 
sharp  sound  giving  signal  to  the  mon- 
keys to  scramble  after  the  falling  nuts. 
For  this  reason,  they  are  sometimes 
called  Monkey-pots.  The  empty  seed- 
vessel  is  often  used  for  a  pot  or  vase. 

The  nuts  are  packed  very  closely  in 
the  shell  and  are  about  one  inch  in  di- 
ameter and  two  or  three  inches  long, 
with  a  thin,  brown,  wrinkled,  and 
twisted  shell.  The  kernel  is  white, 
sweet,  oily,  and  has  a  very  nice 
flavor. 

In   New  York   these  nuts  are  sold 
under  the  name  of  Paradise  nuts,  but  this  is  probably  a  local 
name.      These  nuts  are  not  shipped  in  very  large  quantities. 

SOUARI-NUT.    , 

This  nut  is  a  native  of  British  Guiana,  and  is  the  fruit  of 
the  Coryocar  Nucifcnun,  a  magnificent  tree  growing  one  hun- 
dred feet  high,  with  a  trunk  two  or  three  feet  in  diameter. 
Botanically  it  belongs  to  the  Tea  family,  but  the  nut  is  very 


SAPUCAIA  NUT. 


46  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

similar  to  our  butternut,  which  belongs  to  the  Walnut  family. 
They  are  sometimes  called  butternuts. 

The  leaves  resemble  those  of  the  horse  chestnut.  The 
flowers  are  very  large,  and  have  a  tube  fully  a  foot  long,  of  a 
deep  purple  on  the  outside  and  yellow  within.  It  is  com- 
posed of  five  thick,  fleshy  petals  and  is  as  showy  as  our 
brightest-colored  magnolias. 


SOl'ARI    Nl'T. 

The  flowers  arc  produced  in  terminal  clusters  succeeded 
by  a  fleshy  fruit  five  or  six  inches  in  diameter.  The  nuts  arc 
affixed  to  a  central  axis  and  are  of  a  round  subreniform  shape, 
and  even  flattened  to  an  almost  sharp  edge  on  one  side.  The 
shell  is  of  a  deep  brown  color,  embossed,  as  it  were,  with 
smooth  tubercles.  They  are  from  two  to  two  and  one-half 
inches  in  diameter.  The  kernels  are  pure  white,  soft,  rich, 
and  oily,  with  a  pleasant  flavor.  This  nut  is  rarely  seen 
in  our  market  excepting  those  brought  by  sailors  to  our 
seaport  towns. 


NUTS    AND    THEIR    HISTnKN.  47 

PINE-NUT. 

The  botanical  name  for  the  pine  is  J^iinis,  and  is  derived 
from  the  Latin  word  pix  picis,  which  means  the  tree  that 
produces  pitch.  The  nut-pines  are  those  trees  which  produce 
seed  large  enough  to  be  conveniently  used  for  food.  Of  these 
there  are  many  varieties  in  this  country,  as  well  as  in  Europe. 
In  Southern  Europe  and  especially  in  Italy  and  France,  the 
seeds  of  the  stone-pine  (Pinns  Pinca]  have  been  extensively 
used  as  food  from  the  earliest  times  down  to  the  present  day. 
Nearly  all  of  the  ancient  authors  refer  to  them  as  among  the 
valuable  products  of  the  country. 

Macrobins,  in  his  story  of  the  Saturnalia,  speaks  of  the 
cones  as  Nnccs  I'd  Poina  Pinca.  These  pine-nuts  are  called 
Pinoechi  in  Italy  and  Sicily,  and  occasionally  a  few  reach 
this  country,  but  the  Italian  name  has  been  corrupted  into 
Pinolas. 

There  are  several  species  in  this  country  bearing  large, 
edible  seeds.  Of  the  twenty-four  species  of  pine  found  on 
the  Pacific  slope  and  in  Arizona,  half  of  them  afford  seeds 
that  are  used  for  food  by  the  Indians. 

The  Pinns  cdnlis  is  considered  the  best  flavored  of  the 
pine-nuts,  so  named  by  the  late  Dr.  Kngelmann,  because  of 
its  large,  sweet,  and  edible  seeds.  It  is  a  small  tree,  growing 
on  dry  hills  in  Colorado  and  southward  through  New  Mexico 
and  western  Texas. 

In  Arizona  and  Lower  California  there  are  two  species- 
Pinns  Parryana  and  Pinus  cembroidcs,  also  called  Pifions, 
which  bear  large  nuts.  And  farther  east  and  north  are  found 
the  one  leaf  pine  (Pinns  inonopJiylla),  and  although  the  seeds 
are  much  smaller  than  those  of  Pinus  cdulis,  they  were 
formerly  gathered  in  immense  quantities  by  the  Indians,  to 
help  eke  out  their  often  scanty  winter  store  of  food. 


MISCELLANEOUS  PINES. 

I    Mountain  Pine  ;        Sugar  Pine;    3.  White-bark  Pine;    4.  Single-leaf  Pine;  5. 

6.    Pu.on  (Pinus  Edulis);    7.   Arizona  Pine;    8.    Yellow  Pine;    9.    Black 

Pine;  orreyPine;    n.  Gray-leaf  Pine  ;    12.  Big-cone  Pine;    r  3.  A  Branch  of  Nut 

[48] 


NUTS    AND    THEIR    HISTORY.  49 

Occasionally  a  small  quantity  of  pine-nuts  are  sent  to 
Eastern  markets,  but  they  are  not  often  sent  unless  ordered 
early  in  the  season. 

The  pine-trees  Finns  cditlis  and  J^itins  Monophylla  are 
perfectly  hardy,  and  worth  cultivating  for  ointment  as  well  as 
for  their  nuts. 

The  pine-nut  has  a  rich,  marrowy  kernel  in  a  shell  that 
varies  in  thickness  from  that  of  a  chestnut  to  that  of  a  hard- 
shelled  hazelnut.  The  form  and  size  of  the  nuts  vary  greatly 
in  different  species,  as  may  be  seen  on  the  plate.  Pine-nuts 
are  but  little  known  to  a  majority  of  the  people  of  the  United 
States,  though  they  are  marketed  in  large  quantities  in  some 
of  the  cities  of  California.  Some  of  them  are  of  good  size  for 
confectionary  and  cooking  purposes,  and  in  quality  and  flavor 
are  so  superior  that  their  general  introduction  will  doubtless 
make  them  very  popular.  Pine-nuts  are  generally  harvested 
by  Indians,  whose  method  is  to  heat  the  cones  until  they 
open,  when  the  nuts  are  easily  rattled  out,  having  been  partly 
roasted  in  the  process. 

The  nuts  are  smooth  and  white,  and  unlike  most  nuts 
there  is  no  skin  to  remove.  They  are  excellent  for  shorten- 
ing, as  they  are  very  easy  to  prepare,  perfectly  white,  almost 
tasteless,  and  very  rich  in  fats. 

WALNUT. 

Juglans  is  a  Latin  name  contracted  from  Jovis  glans, 
meaning  the  "  nut  of  Jupiter."  It  is  said  that  the  name  was 
first  used  by  Pliny,  a  Roman  writer  of  the  time  of  Pompeii. 

They  are  medium-sized  deciduous  trees,  having  alternate 
pinnate  leaves  of  from  fifteen  to  twenty-one  leaflets.  The 
seed-pod  is  two  to  four  celled,  but  has  only  one  ovule 
or  nut. 


I'.i  ARING  BRANCH  OF  ENGLISH  WALNUT. 


[So] 


NUTS    AND    THEIR    HISTORY.  5  I 

The  nuts  are  round  or  oblong,  with  thin  husks,  which  dry 
up  without  opening  ;  the  shell  is  either  rough  and  deeply  cor- 
rugated, or  quite  smooth  ;  in  some  specie^  quite  thick,  and  in 
others  quite  thin.  The  kernel  is  two  lobed  and  united  at  the 
apex  ;  it  is  sweet,  rich,  and  oily. 


CHILE  WALNUT. 

The  walnut  of  commerce  is  known  by  various  names : 
English,  French,  Persian,  European,  and  Italian  ;  also  there 
are  the  Madeira  walnut,  Chile  walnut,  and  California  walnut, 
named  from  the  country  in  which  they  grow. 

There  are  many  species  and  varieties  of  walnuts.  The 
principal  ones  that  are  natives  of  the  United  States  are  the 
butternut  and  the  black  walnut.  Although  butternuts  differ 
in  many  respects,-- in  the  tree,  shell  of  the  nut,  and  even  in 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


the  flavor  of  the  kernel, --yet  it  is  placed  by  botanists  with  the 
walnuts.  The  nut  is  covered  with  a  husk  which  it  does  not 
shed,  but  dries  upon  the  deeply  corrugated  and  very  thick 
shell.  The  kernels  are  sweet  and  very  tender,  and  oily,  but 
are  difficult  to  remove  from  the  shell.  For  this  reason,  they 
are  not  highly  esteemed.  In  composition,  they  are  similar  to 

the  walnut,  but  contain  rather  more 
fat,  and  are  quite  as  valuable  for 
food  when  once  removed  from  the 
shell. 

The  black  walnut,  botanically 
called  Juglans  Nigra,  grows  wild. 
The  trees  in  many  parts  of  the  United 
States  are  large,  with  smooth  leaf- 
lets, which  are  ovate,  lanceolate,  and 
serrate.  The  fruit  is  spherical  in 
form,  with  hard,  thick  shells,  deeply 
corrugated.  The  kernels  come  out 
quite  hard,  but  in  some  varieties  are 
much  easier  to  remove  than  others. 
When  removed  from  the  shell,  they 
sfll  in  market  for  rather  more  than 
the  English  walnut. 

Among  the  Oriental  walnuts,  or 
those  indigenous  to  the  Old  World, 
there  are  also  many  varieties,  as  they  have  been  cultivated 
and  improved  for  so  many  hundred  years.  Many  of  them 
have  been  planted  in  the  United  States,  especially  in  Cali- 
fornia, where  they  will  soon  be  a  paying  business.  The  fol- 
lowing are  some  of  the  best-known  varieties  :  - 

The  BartJicrc  Walnut. -  -This  is  a  long  nut,  pointed  at 
both  ends,  with  a  thin  shell.  The  kernel  is  large  and  the 
flavor  excellent. 


BARTHERE  WALNUT. 


NUTS    AND    THEIR    HISTORY.  53 

The  Chabcrtc.  -  -This  is  an  old  standard  French  variety, 
of  oval  shape,  medium  sized,  and  kernels  very  full  and  rich 
flavored. 

The  Chile  Walnut. --This  name  is  given  in  a  general  way 
to  all  walnuts  coming  from  South  America.  The  nuts  are 
good  sized,  thin,  but  firm  shells,  with  plump  kernels,  having 
an  excellent  flavor.  Many  of  the  Chile  walnuts  have  three 
valves  instead  of  two. 

The  Gant  Walnut.-  -This  is  a  variety  of  remarkable  size, 
but  the  kernel  does  not  correspond  to  the  size  of  the  shell. 

The  Gibbons  Walnut.-  -This  is  a 
very  large  variety  raised  in  France 
many  years  ago,  but  it  is  of  little 
value,  as  the  shell  is  very  thick  and 
the  kernel  small. 

The  Mayettc  Walnut.  —  A  very 
large  variety,  with  a  light-colored  shell 
of  moderate  thickness.  The  kernels 
are  plump,  readily  extracted  whole, 

and  very   sweet,   with   a  rich,   nutty  flavor.      This  is  an  old 
standard  French  variety. 

TJic  Mesangc  or  Paper-shelled  Walnut.-  -  This  nut  has  the 
thinnest  shell  of  any  variety  known.  The  kernels  are  plump 
and  quite  rich  and  oily,  but  they  are  more  apt  to  be  bad,  as 
the  shells  are  so  easily  broken  ;  and  when  the  kernel  is 
exposed  to  the  air,  it  readily  spoils. 

The  Pariscnnc  Walnut.- -This  variety  originated  in 
Southern  France,  but  grows  well  in  California.  It  is  a  large 
and  broad  variety  and  has  a  thin,  but  firm  shell ;  the  kernels 
have  an  excellent  flavor. 

The  Serotina  Walnut.-  -This  is  a  very  popular  variety,  as 
it  buds  late  in  the  spring,  escaping  the  late  frosts,  and  grows 
so  rapidly  that  it  is  ripe  in  the  fall,  with  the  other  varieties. 


I 

I 


4.  a 

PERSIAN  WALNUTS. 

I.  Mission;   la.  Section  of  Mission;    2.  Procparturiens  ;    2a.  Section  of  Procpartu- 
3-  Mayelle;    3a.  Section    of    Mayelle ;   4.  Franquette  ;    4a.  Section   of    Fran- 
quette  ;    5.  Chaberte ;   53.  Section  of  Chaberte. 

[54] 


4  a 


PERSIAN  WALNUTS. 


I.  Cluster;    I  a.  Section    of  Cluster;    2.  Grand    Noblesse;   2a.  Section   of   Grand 
Noblesse;  3.  Ford  (soft-shelled) ;  3a.  Section  of  Ford  ;   4.  Gant ;   4a.  Section  of  Gant. 

[55] 


8 


MISCELLANEOUS  WALNUTS. 

WALNTT    (Juglans    Nigra).—  i.  Taylor ;    i a.  Section  of  Taylor  ;    2.  I'ea- 

3a.  Section    of   Mirza ;   4.  Specimen   from    S.    B.    Cole.     JAPANESE 

-*).  Jitglans    Mandslnirica   Maxim  ;     6.  Juglans     Cordiformis     Maxim; 

ildiana.     HYBRID  WALNUT.  —  8.  Vilmorin. 
[56] 


NUTS    AND    THEIR    HISTORY.  57 

It  is  medium  sized,  the  shell  rather  hard,  but  the  kernel  is 
plump  and  well  flavored. 

Walnuts  have  been  raised  and  highly  valued  from  very 
early  times.  Pliny  informs  us  that  the  Greeks  called  the  tree 
Caryon,  on  account  of  the  strong  scent  of  the  foliage.  It  is 
claimed  by  the  early  writers  of  Europe  that  the  emperor 
Vitellius  introduced  the  walnut  into  Italy.  When  the  plant- 
ing of  walnuts  was  extended  into  Gaul  (Ancient  France),  they 
were  called  "  Gaul  nuts,"  which  the  English-speaking  people 
corrupted  into  "walnuts."  Walnuts  in  this  age  were  highly 
prized  and  considered  appropriate  only  for  the  table  of  the 
king.  They  believed  that  they  possessed  powerful  medical 
properties,  even  curing  hydrophobia  ;  but  the  medical  fra- 
ternity of  to-day  are  of  a  different  opinion.  The  walnut  is 
very  nutritious,  both  in  fats  and  albumen,  making  them  an 
excellent  nut  to  use  in  the  preparation  of  foods.  They  con- 
tain fifteen  and  eight-tenths  per  cent,  of  albuminous  ele- 
ments, thirteen  per  cent,  of  starch,  fifty-seven  and  four-tenths 
per  cent,  of  fats,  and  two  per  cent,  of  salts  ;  making  a  total 
nutritive  value  of  eighty-eight  and  two-tenths  per  cent. 

WATER  CHESTNUT. 

These  are  also  known  as  Water  Caltrops.  They  are  the 
seeds  of  several  species  of  water  plants  of  the  genus  Trapa, 
of  the  Evening  Primrose  family  (Onagraceee). 

There  are  several  species  of  these  nuts.  In  Southern 
Europe  there  is  a  species  called  Jesuit  nut.  In  China,  they 
are  called  Ling,  and  are  extensively  used  as  an  article  of 
food.  In  India  and  Ceylon  there  is  a  nut  called  "  Singhara- 
nut,"  which  is  closely  allied  to  the  water  chestnut,  and  is 
probably  a  variety  of  the  same  species.  Occasionally  some 
have  been  imported  and  sold,  but  more  for  curiosities  than 
for  eating. 


58  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

The  seeds  arc  of  a  dark-brown  color,  and  of  the  form  and 
size  shown  in  the  cut,  resembling  in  miniature  the  skull  of 
an  ox,  with  abbreviated  horns.  When  fresh,  the  kernels 
have  an  agreeable,  nutty  flavor. 


WATER  CHESTNUT. 


FOODS. 


T^OOD  is  that  which  taken  into  the  body  forms  blood, 
1  muscles,  and  brain. 

It  naturally  follows  that  in  order  to  have  good  blood  and 
strong  muscles,  one  must  partake  of  good,  nutritious  food. 
That  which  is  not  converted  into  blood  is  not  food,  and 
should  be  left  out  of  the  bill  of  fare. 

Pepper  and  spices,  whisky,  tobacco,  and  coffee  are  not 
foods, —  they  can  not  be  made  into  blood,  and  therefore 
should  never  enter  the  stomach. 

With  respect  to  their  use  in  the  body,  foods  are  classified 
into  carbonaceous  and  nitrogenous  elements.  The  carbona- 
ceous elements  are  those  which  furnish  heat  and  force,  while 
the  nitrogenous  elements  produce  muscle  and  brain. 

The  carbonaceous  foods  are  the  starches,  sugars,  and 
fats.  The  system  requires  six  or  seven  times  as  much  of  the 
carbonaceous  as  of  the  nitrogenous  element.  If  more  is 
taken  than  the  system  can  use  at  the  time,  the  surplus  is 
stored  away  in  the  body  in  the  form  of  fat. 

The  nitrogenous  foods  are  first,  albumen, —  of  which  the 
white  of  an  egg  is  the  best  example,-- secondly,  the  casein 
found  in  milk  and  legumes,  and  thirdly,  the  gluten  found  in 
grains.  Only  about  three  ounces  of  nitrogenous  material  can 
be  used  by  the  system  in  one  day,  and  if  more  is  eaten,  it 
can  not,  like  the  carbonaceous,  be  laid  up  in  the  system  for 
future  use,  but  must  be  disposed  of  in  the  same  manner  as 
poison,  which  puts  extra  work  upon  the  internal  organs. 

[59] 


60  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

It  is  therefore  necessary  that  the  housewife  and  mother 
should  be  careful  that  the  meal  contains  both  elements  in  as 
nearly  the  right  proportion  as  possible.  Too  much  food  of 
either  element  is  harmful.  People  are  more  likely  to  overeat 
than  to  eat  too  little.  I  have  no  doubt  but  that  the  majority 
of  people  would  be  healthier,  fleshier,  and  have  a  clearer 
brain  if  they  would  take  only  two  thirds  of  the  amount  which 
they  are  in  the  habit  of  eating.  Rapid  eating  is  one  of  the 
chief  causes  of  overeating.  This  evil  habit  is  so  customary 
among  Ameiicans  that  it  has  become  a  proverb.  The  food 
is  not  masticated  thoroughly,  and  of  course  can  not  be  mixed 
with  the  saliva,  and  the  starch,  instead  of  being  digested  by 
the  saliva,  is  left  to  ferment  in  the  stomach.  The  use  of 
condiments  is  another  cause  for  overeating.  The  highly 
spiced  foods  so  please  the  palate  and  at  the  same  time 
dt  aden  the  nerves  of  the  stomach,  that  they  can  not  cry 
"Enough!'  Plain  and  simple  foods,  prepared  without 
spices  or  grease  will  seldom  cause  one  to  overeat.  It  is'1  not 
the  amount  of  food  we  eat  that  gives  us  strength  and  flesh, 
but  the  amount  we  digest,  and  a  moderate  meal  is  much 
easier  for  the  stomach  to  digest  than  an  immoderate  one. 


COMBINATIONS  OF  FOODS. 


A  PERFECT  DIET. 

A  PERFECT  diet  is  one  which  gives  the  most  strength 
with  the  least  taxation  on  the  vital  forces,  and  the  least 
encouragement  to  intemperance. 

In  the  beginning  God  gave  to  man  a  perfect  diet  -  -  fruits 
(including  nuts),  grains,  and  vegetables.  Gen.  I  :  29.  And 
the  Lord  intends  to  bring  his  people  back  to  live  upon  this 
original  diet. 

' '  We  advise  you  to  change  your  habit  of  living  ;  but 
while  you  do  this,  we  caution  you  to  move  understandingly. 
I  am  acquainted  with  families  who  have  changed  from  a  meat 
diet  to  one  that  is  impoverished.  Their  food  is  so  poorly  pre- 
pared that  the  stomach  loathes  it.  Here  is  one  reason  why 
some  have  not  been  successful  in  their  efforts  to  simplify 
their  food."  -"  Hca  Itlifnl  Living,"  par.  ,77. 

In  making  a  change  from  a  meat  to  a  vegetarian  diet, 
great  care  should  be  taken  to  supply  the  table  with  well- 
cooked  articles  of  food,  that  the  appetite,  when  not  per- 
verted, may  relish  it.  "There  should  not  be  many  kinds  of 
food  at  any  one  meal,  but  all  meals  should  not  be  composed 
of  the  same  kinds  of  food  without  variation."  -Ibid., 
par.  367. 

The  best  combinations  of  foods  are  the  following  :  Fruits 
and  grains  ;  grains,  vegetables,  and  nuts. 

It  is  best  to  have  fruits  and  grains  for  breakfast,  and 
grains,  vegetables,  and  nuts  for  dinner.  Grains  would  include 
not  only  all  kinds  of  mushes  and  gruels  made  from  grains,  but 

[6,  j 


62  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COoKKKY. 

all  kinds  of  breads,  -rolls,  sticks,  gems,  crackers,  raised  bread 
and  buns,  zwieback,  granola,  and  granose.  Fruits  can  be 
served  in  a  variety  of  ways, —  fresh,  stewed,  on  toasts,  fruit 
juice,  and  fruit  sauces.  Nuts  may  also  .be  used  with  the 
breakfast  if  desired,  as  nuts  combine-  very  well  with  fruits. 
Then  for  dinner,  the  grains  prepared  in  any  of  the  various 
ways,  with  vegetables  and  nuts,  which  can  be  prepared  in  a 
hundred  different  ways,  are  variety  enough. 

The  supper,  if  any  is  taken,  should  be  very  light, —  a  raw 
apple  or  some  other  fruit,  or  a  little  hot  gruel  or  rice,  —  some- 
thing that  will  digest  quickly. 

The  general  rules  for  food  combinations  are  the  fol- 
lowing :  - 

I.  Do  not  combine  fruits  with  nitrogenous  foods. 

II.  Never    combine    foods    where    the    time    of    digestion 
greatly   differs,    for    example  :    apples    digest    in    two    hours, 
boiled    beets    in    three    hours    and    forty-five    minutes,     and 
potatoes    in     three     hours     and    thirty     minutes.       If    these 
were    eaten  at  the    same    meal,    the    apple    would    have    to 
remain  in  the  stomach  for  one  hour  and  forty-five  minutes 
after  it  was  digested  before  it  could  leave  the  stomach,  with 
the  other  food  ;    and  during  that  time,    if    the  stomach  was 
weak,  fermentation  might  set  in.      If  the  stomach  is  healthy, 
the  gastric  juice  will  be  strong  enough  to  destroy  all  fermen- 
tation  germs.      For    this    reason,    nothing    seems    to    hurt    a 
healthy  stomach,    but  continued  ill  treatment   will    cause    it 
to  weaken. 

BAD  COMBINATIONS. 

Milk  and  sugar,  fruits  and  vegetables,  and  fruits  and 
nitrogenous  foods.  "Some  use  milk  and  a  large  amount 
of  sugar  on  mush,  thinking  they  are  carrying  out  health 
reform  ;  but  the  sugar  and  milk  combined  are  liable  to  cause 


COMBINATIONS    OF    FOODS.  63 

fermentation  in  the  stomach,  and  are  thus  harmful.  The  free 
use  of  sugar  in  any  form  tends  to  clog  the  system  and  is  not 
unfrequently  a  cause  of  disease."  -"Healthful  Living" 
par.  3J9. 

"  Mixed  and  complicated  dishes  are  injurious  to  the  health 
of  human  beings.      If  we  would  preserve  the  best  health,  we 
should  avoid  eating  vegetables  and  fruit  at  the  same  meal." 
-"Healthful  Living,"  par.    ij6. 

TABLE  OF  COMBINATIONS. 

\   i.    Fruits  and  grains. 
Good  Combinations.  „  ,  ,  , 

'  2.    Grams,  vegetables,  and  nuts. 

{i.    Fruits  and  nuts. 
2.    Milk  and  fruits. 
3.    Milk  and  vegetables. 

i  i.    Milk  and  sugar. 

Bad  Combinations.        2.    Fruit  and  vegetables. 

I  3.    Free  fats  with  foods. 


NUTS:  THEIR  PROPERTIES  AND 
FOOD  VALUES. 


NUT  foods  are  practically  a  new  thing  among  the  civilized 
people  of  the  world.  Only  a  few  years  have  elapsed 
since  they  have  been  used  at  all  ;  but  so  well  are  they  being 
received  by  all  classes  of  people,  that  the  time  promises  to  be 
near  at  hand  when  those  who  desire  to  live  healthfully,  and 
avoid  the  diseases  caused  by  meat-eating,  can  do  so  by  sub- 
stituting in  its  place  pure,  nutritious,  and  healthful  nuts. 

That  nuts  can  fully  take  the  place  of  meat  can  be  proved 
by  analysis,  which  shows  that  they  actually  contain  more  of 
the  nutritious  elements  of  beefsteak  than  beefsteak  itself. 
The  following  is  a  comparison  between  the  two  :— 

Albuminous  Carbona  Total 

Elements.  ceous.  Nutriment. 

Peanuts 28$,  46%  87% 

Beef igfy  4%  28% 

"When  we  feed  on  flesh,  the  juices  of  what  we  eat  pass 
into  the  circulation,  a  feverish  condition  is  created,  because 
the  animals  are  diseased,  and  by  partaking  of  their  flesh,  we 
plant  the  seeds  of  disease  in  our  own  tissue  and  blood.  Then 
when  exposed  to  the  changes  in  a  malarious  atmosphere,  to 
prevailing  epidemics,  and  contagious  diseases,  these  are  more 
sensibly  felt,  for  the  system  is  not  in  a  condition  to  resist 
disease.  The  practise  of  eating  largely  of  meat  is  causing 
diseases  of  all  kinds,  —  cancers,  tumors,  scrofula,  tuberculosis, 
and  other  like  affections."  -  "Healthful  Living." 
[64] 


NUTS  I    THEIR    PROPERTIES    AND    FOOD    VALUES.  65 

Eminent  physicians  are  being  aroused  by  the  increase  of 
disease  in  the  land,  and  health  boards  have  been  established 
which  are  doing  all  they  can  in  the  line  of  educating  and 
enlightening  the  people  upon  these  subjects,  and  warning 
them  to  be  careful  in  contagious  diseases  that  they  destroy 
all  germs  by  thorough  disinfection.  They  are  also  more  than 
ever  cautioning  the  people  about  their  water  and  milk  supply. 
So  much  has  been  said  about  the  diseases  of  animals  in  the 
last  few  years  that  a  great  many  people  would  be  glad  to  give 
up  eating  the  flesh  and  using  the  products  of  animals  if  they 
could  get  something  to  fill  their  place.  Some  who  have  con- 
scientiously entered  into  a  reform  on  diet,  rejecting  flesh, 
animal  fats,  and  butter,  have  sat  down  to  a  table  so  impover- 
ished that  the  food  upon  it  is  scarcely  sufficient  in  nutrition  to 
hold  the  body  and  soul  together ;  so  they  finally  lose  their 
conscientiousness  in  the  matter  and  go  back  to  meat-eating, 
because  the  old  adage  is  true  which  says,  "The  conscience 
is  never  strengthened  by  an  empty  stomach."  "Something 
must  be  prepared  to  take  the  place  of  meat,  and  these  foods 
must  be  well-prepared  so  that  meat  will  not  be  desired." 
"Healthful  Living,"  par.  j.j.o. 

And  this  is  just  what  nut  foods  will  do,  not  only  as  far  as 
nutrition  is  concerned,  but  they  will  also  render  food  more 
palatable,  much  like  the  taste  of  meats,  without  having  their 
injurious  effects. 

A  meal  composed  of  potatoes,  beans,  and  rolled  oats,  with 
no  other  seasoning  than  a  little  salt,  although  it  be  thoroughly 
cooked  and  perfectly  hygienic,  and  having  all  the  elements 
that  the  body  needs,  would  not  be  a  palatable  meal  for  one 
who  has  been  in  the  habit  of  living  upon  a  highly  seasoned 
meat  diet,  and  accustomed  to  having  vegetables  served  drip- 
ping with  grease,  and  full  of  pepper  and  salt  ;  and  there  are 
very  few  who  have  the  moral  backbone  to  live  upon  a  plain 
5 


66  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

diet.  But  if  they  will  persevere,  the  appetite,  which  has 
been  perverted,  will  become  so  changed  that  they  will  relish 
the  very  foods  which  they  once  loathed.  This  would  cer- 
tainly be  the  case  if  the  healthful  diet  was  persisted  in  long 
enough.  But  the  majority  must  be  educated  away  from  meat, 
by  preparing  dishes  that  so  closely  resemble  the  taste  of  meat 
dishes  that  the  meat  will  not  be  missed.  By  using  nuts  for 
seasonings,  we  have  the  fats,  and  to  some  extent  the  flavor,  of 
meat,  and  there  is  no  harm  in  using  a  little  of  the  more  sim- 
ple seasoning,  as  a  little  salt,  sage,  celery,  parsley,  onion, 
vanilla,  and  rose-water. 

A  roast  made  of  walnut  or  butternut  meal,  bread-crumbs, 
water,  a  little  salt,  sage,  and  onion  juice,  with  perhaps  the 
addition  of  some  beans,  peas,  or  lentils,  would  be  far  superior 
to  roast  beef  ;  and  a  mince  pie  made  of  pecan  meal,  apples, 
citron,  raisins,  and  a  little  sugar,  would  fully  take  the  place 
of,  and  be  far  more  healthful  than,  a  pie  made  of  stale  meats, 
black  with  spices,  and  seasoned  with  wine  or  brandy.  A 
cake  raised  with  air,  shortened  with  nuts,  and  flavored  with 
vanilla,  would  be  better  than  one  raised  with  baking-powder 
or  soda,  and  oily  with  animal  fats. 

Thus  one  might  go  through  the  whole  catalogue  of  foods, 
and  make  a  substitute  for  nearly  every  hurtful  dish,  that 
would  be  healthful  and  at  the  same  time  palatable,  by  the 
use  of  nuts  in  some  form. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  be  confined  to  one  kind  of  nut  ;  all 
of  them  are  useful  in  some  form.  The  pinon,  or  pine-nut,  is 
excellent  for  seasoning  foods,  and  would  probably  be  much 
cheaper  than  peanuts  in  Arizona,  New  Mexico,  southern 
California,  and  other  countries  where  the  pine-nut  grows.  In 
countries  where  the  pecan  and  hickory-nut  are  plentiful,  these 
can  be  used.  They  do  not  make  quite  so  nice  a  butter  to 
spread  on  the  bread  as  the  peanut  or  almond,  but  they  are 


NUTS  :    THEIR    PROPERTIES    AND    FOOD    VALUES.  67 

equally  as  good  in  seasoning  and  shortening,  and  in  cake 
making  are  far  superior. 

Nuts  are  usually  described  as  a  fruit,  consisting  of  a 
kernel,  or  seed,  enclosed  in  a  hard,  woody,  or  leathery  shell 
that  does  not  open  when  ripe.  They  are  usually  the  fruit  of 
shrubs  or  trees,  but  the  tubers  of  some  plants  are  also  called 
nuts,  on  account  of  their  resemblance  to  the  nuts  in  taste, 
and  their  richness  in  fats. 

Of  all  the  foods  which  nature  gives  to  man,  the  nut  con- 
tains the  most  fats,  and  that  in  a  form  which  is  much  easier 
of  digestion  than  animal  fats,  such  as  lard,  tallow,  and  butter. 
The  reason  for  this  is  that  the  fats  of  animals  are  free  fats, 
and  will  not  mix  with  water,  while  the  fats  of  nuts  freely  mix 
with  water  and  form  an  emulsion  very  much  resembling 
'cream. 

Fats  are  very  essential  in  the  system  to  give  the  body  its 
beautiful  form  by  rilling  up  unsightly  cavities  and  forming 
cushions. 

Nuts  also  contain  other  nutritious  elements,  such  as  albu- 
men, sugar,  and  salts.  In  fact  they  are  one  of  the  most 
nutritious  foods,  and  the  one  that  most  fully  takes  the  place 
of  meat  in  the  system.  When  the  legumes  and  grains  are 
used  quite  extensively,  there  is  no  lack  in  the  system  ;  but  if 
the  diet  is  white  bread,  vegetables,  and  fruits,  there  is  a  lack 
of  the  nitrogenous  elements  ;  and  nuts,  instead  of  meat, 
should  be  used  to  make  up  this  deficiency.  That  the  Creator 
never  intended  man  to  eat  meat  is  clear  from  the  fact  that  it 
was  not  mentioned  in  the  original  bill  of  fare  (Gen.  I  :  29);  and 
not  until  after  the  flood  was  he  permitted  to  partake  of  flesh, 
and  then,  that  only  of  certain  kinds  of  animals.  Fats  and 
blood  were  strictly  forbidden.  ' '  But  the  flesh  with  the  life 
thereof,  which  is  the  blood  thereof,  shall  ye  not  eat."  Gen. 
9  :  40.  ."It  shall  be  a  perpetual  statute  for  your  generations 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

throughout  all  your  dwellings,  that  ye  eat  neither  fat  nor 
blood."  Lev.  3:  17.  "And  the  Lord  spake  unto  Moses, 
saying,  Speak  unto  the  children  of  Israel,  saying,  Ye  shall  eat 
no  manner  of  fat,  of  ox,  or  of  sheep,  or  of  goat."  Lev. 

7   •  i-y     1-1 
/    •  -  -  >    -  j- 

The  Lord  did  not  lay  down  these  rules  for  ancient  Israel 
and  all  succeeding  generations  to  be  arbitrary  or  to  show  his 
authority,  but  for  the  reasons  given  in  Deut.  12  :  25  :  "Thou 
shalt  not  eat  it  ;  that  it  may  go  well  with  thee,  and  with  thy 
children  after  thee,  when  thou  shalt  do  that  which  is  right  in 
the  sight  of  the  Lord." 

The  fat  of  animals  is  more  likely  to  be  diseased  than 
other  portions  of  the  body  ;  for  it  is  not  used  in  exercise  as 
are  the  muscles.  But  the  blood,  which  passes  through  the 
body,  washing  out  all  its  poison,  is  undoubtedly  itself  the 
most  poisonous  part,  and  to  use  these  poisonous  substances 
as  articles  of  food  could  work  nothing  but  disease.  The 
Lord,  who  saw  all  things  from  the  beginning,  foresaw  the 
result  of  using  such  articles  of  food,  and  would  save  man 
from  the  consequences. 

It  was  only  on  account  of  the  hardness  of  men's  hearts 
that  God  permitted  them  to  eat  flesh  ;  but  in  the  beginning 
it  was  not  so.  God  designed  that  man  should  live  only  upon 
the  pure,  healthful  things  of  earth, —  that  which  would  best 
sustain  and  build  up  the  brain  and  body  of  man. 

The  purest  and  most  easily  digested  of  all  meats  is  the 
meat  of  nuts.  In  nutritive  value,  they  far  exceed  all  flesh- 
meats.  Beefsteak,  for  example,  has  19  per  cent,  of  nitroge- 
nous material  and  4  per  cent,  of  carbonaceous,  total,  28 
per  cent. ;  while  the  peanut  has  28  per  cent,  of  nitrogenous 
and  46  per  cent,  of  carbonaceous,  total  79  per  cent,  nutri- 
tive. That  is,  one  pound  of  peanuts  is  equal  in  nutritive 
value  to  more  than  two  and  one-half  pounds  of  beefsteak. 


NUTS  :    THEIR    PROPERTIES    AND    FOOD    VALUES.  69 

Nuts  contain  but  little  starch,  excepting  the  chestnut, 
which  has  70  per  cent.,  and  the  walnut,  which  has  14  per 
cent,  of  starch  ;  but  the  other  kinds  of  nuts  have  very  little. 
For  this  reason,  they  are  adapted  to  people  that  are  suffering 
from  hyperpepsia,  who  are  usually  unable  to  digest  starch. 
For  such  persons  a  diet  of  nuts  with,  digested  starch,  as  is 
found  in  malt  extract,  is  very  beneficial.  Malt  can  be  com- 
bined with  any  of  the  nuts,  either  after  they  are  made  into 
butter  or  in  the  meal. 

Nuts  are  more  digestible  if  they  are  first  emulsified,  as 
very  few  can  masticate  them  fine  enough  to  be  acted  upon  by 
the  digestive  juices.  The  question  of  emulsifying  nuts  has 
been  practically  settled  in  the  last  few  years  by  the  invention 
of  machinery  for  that  purpose,  both  for  family  and  factory 
use.  It  is  sincerely  hoped  and  believed  that  the  time  is  not 
far  distant  when  nuts  will  fully  take  the  place  of  animal  flesh, 
fats,  and  products. 


NUT  BUTTER. 


THE  production  of  nut  butter  is  a  very  simple  process. 
The  peanut  and  almond  are  the  nuts  that  are  chiefly 
used  for  this  purpose  ;  but  the  Brazil-nuts  make  a  very  fine 
butter.  All  of  the  nuts  can  be  ground,  but  as  they  can  not  be 
blanched,  they  do  not  make  a  nice  looking  butter.  The 
Spanish  peanut  has  proved  the  most  satisfactory  for  butter 
making,  although  some  people  prefer  the  Virginia  variety. 
The  first  essential  thing  is  to  have  a  nut-grinding  mill. 

PEANUT  BUTTER. 

The  first  step  is  to  roast  the  peanuts  to  a  nice  brown, 
being  careful  not  to  over-brown  or  scorch  them,  as  too  much 
cooking  spoils  the  flavor.  They  can  be  roasted  in  an 
ordinary  oven,  but  can  be  better  done  in  a  peanut  roaster 
made  especially  for  this  purpose.  As  soon  as  they  are 
roasted  and  cool,  the  skins  or  bran  should  be  removed  by 
rubbing  them  in  the  hands,  or  what  is  better,  a  coarse  bag  ; 
or  take  a  square  piece  of  cloth  and  fold  the  edges  together, 
forming  a  bag  of  it.  The  chaff  can  then  be  removed  by  the 
use  of  an  ordinary  fan,  or  by  pouring  from  one  dish  to  an- 
other where  the  wind  is  blowing.  The  process  of  removing 
the  skins  is  called  blanching.  Next  look  them  over  carefully, 
remove  all  defective  nuts  and  foreign  substances,  and  they 
are  ready  for  grinding.  If  a  fine,  oily  butter  is  desired, 
adjust  the  mill  quite  closely,  and  place  in  the  oven  to  warm. 
Feed  the  mill  slowly,  turn  rapidly,  and  always  use  freshly 
roasted  nuts  ;  after  they  have  stood  a  day  or  two  they  will 
( 70} 


NUT    BUTTER.  /I 

not  grind  well  nor  make  oily  butter.  If  the  butter  is  kept  in 
a  cool  place  in  a  covered  dish,  and  no  moisture  allowed  to 
come  in  contact  with  it,  it  will  keep  several  weeks  ;  and  if  put 
in  sealed  jars  or  cans,  will  keep  indefinitely. 

RAW  PEANUT  BUTTER. 

Heat  the  peanuts  just  sufficiently  to  remove  the  skins, 
but  do  not  allow  them  to  get  brown  ;  prepare  them  as  de- 
scribed in  a  former  recipe,  and  grind  in  a  nut  mill.  Although 
the  raw  peanut  butter  is  not  as  palatable  as  the  roasted  but- 
ter, it  is  considered  more  healthful  and  easier  of  digestion. 
It  is  also  preferable  to  use  in  making  soups  and  puddings,  in 
cooking  grains,  and  in  seasoning  vegetables.  Food  seasoned 
with  this  butter  does  not  have  that  objectionable  taste  that 
the  roasted  peanut  butter  imparts  ;  and  if  it  is  properly  used, 
the  peanut  taste  is  almost  entirely  eliminated. 

ALMOND  BUTTER. 

Almond  butter  is  more  difficult  to  make  than  peanut  but- 
ter because  the  skins  can  not  be  so  easily  removed.  Roasting 
does  not  loosen  the  skins  of  the  almond  as  it  does  of  the 
peanut.  They  have  to  be  soaked  in  boiling  water  from  two 
to  five  minutes  ;  then  the  skins  become  loose  and  can  be 
pinched  off  by  pressing  on  the  nut  with  the  thumb  and  fin- 
ger ;  the  skin  will  crack  and  the  kernel  pop  out.  But  by 
this  process  the  nuts  have  soaked  up  some  water  and  become 
tough.  They  must  then  be  dried  in  the  oven  until  quite  crisp, 
but  the  oven  must  not  be  hot,  or  they  will  brown.  Then  run 
them  through  a  loosely  adjusted  mill  or  a  sausage  grinder, 
and  place  on  a  cloth  stretched  over  the  stove  until  perfectly 
dry  ;  then  grind  them  in  the  nut-butter  mill,  quite  tightly 
adjusted.  This  makes  excellent  butter  if  the  almonds  are 
first-class,  and  sweet. 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


/    " 


BRAZIL-NUT  BUTTER. 

It  is  cheapest  and  best  to  buy  the  nuts  already  shelled, 
then  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  off  all  the  brown,  woody  skin  that 
adheres  to  them,  and  grind  them  through  the  mill.  They 
may  have  to  be  broken  up  before  putting  in  the  mill.  This 
butter  is  very  good,  but  not  so  cheap  as  peanut  butter,  except- 
ing in  the  countries  where  this  nut  grows. 

PEANUT  CREAM. 

For  making  cream,  the  peanuts  should  not  be  roasted  so 
much  as  for  making  butter.  They  should  have  a  light  straw 
color.  Then  grind  them  very  fine,  and  to  a  tablespoonful  of 
nut  butter  add  I  \  cups  of  water,  adding  a  little  at  a  time, 
and  beating  until  it  is  smooth. 

PEANUT  MILK. 

Make  like  the  peanut  cream,  only  add  more  water.  The 
amount  of  nut  butter  to  be  used  depends  upon  the  richness  of 
the  rnilk  desired. 

RAW  PEANUT  MILK  AND  CREAM. 

Put  the  peanuts  in  the  oven  or  peanut  roaster,  and  let 
them  stay  until  they  are  hot,  but  not  the  least  browned ;  the 
skins  will  then  be  loose  enough  to  blanch  quite  easily.  Pick 
out  those  that  will  not  blanch  without  extra  effort,  and  save 
them  to  roast.  They  can  be  put  with  raw  nuts,  as  it  will 
take  just  as  long  to  roast  them  after  they  have  been  once 
cooled,  as  it  will  to  roast  those  that  have  not  been  heated. 
Look  the  raw  nuts  over  carefully,  as  every  speck  or  dark  spot 
will  show  in  the  unroasted  nuts.  Grind  them  to  a  meal ;  i-f 
they  are  ground  until  buttery  and  oily,  it  is  hard  to  get 
the  milk  out.  Then  to  2  cups  of  the  meal  add  3  cups  of 


NUT    BUTTER.  73 

lukewarm  or  cold  water  ;  beat  well  with  a  spoon  for  four  or 
five  minutes,  then  line  an  earthen  pan  or  bowl  with  two 
thicknesses  of  cheese-cloth,  and  pour  in  the  mixture  ;  fold  the 
edges  of  the  cloth  together,  and  squeeze  out  the  milk.  It 
will  look  like  dairy  milk.  The  last  will  look  quite  thick,  and 
some  of  the  finest  part  of  the  pulp  wall  go  through,  but  that 
will  do  no  harm  as  it  will  settle  to  the  bottom  when  left  to 
stand.  The  cream  will  also  rise  to  the  top.  If  the  nuts  are 
properly  ground,  the  cream  should  be  from  one  half  to  three 
fourths  of  an  inch  thick  on  a  dish  where  the  milk  was  three 
inches  deep.  It  is  richer  than  dairy  cream,  and  can  be  used 
for  all  purposes  for  which  dairy  cream  is  used  in  seasonings 
and  shortenings. 

This  cream  diluted  with  water  to  the  consistency  of  milk, 
and  a  very  little  salt  and  sugar  added,  makes  a  milk  which 
tastes  like,  and  closely  resembles,  dairy  milk.  The  residue 
can  be  made  into  nut  meal  by  steaming  and  then  drying,  or 
made  into  nutmeatose,  sausages,  etc.  Raw  peanuts  are 
considered  beneficial  in  some  forms  of  dyspepsia.  The  milk, 
if  cooked  in  a  double  boiler  for  two  or  three  hours,  has  none 
of  the  raw  taste  left ;  but  the  cream,  if  cooked  for  any  length 
of  time,  becomes  oily.  The  raw  taste  is  not  noticeable 
when  used  in  cake,  crisps,  rolls,  or  pie  crust.  The  house- 
wife will  find  this  recipe  invaluable. 

ALMOND  MILK. 

Dissolve  i  tablespoonful  of  almond  butter  in  I  pint  of 
warm  water,  adding  a  little  at  a  time. 

HICKORY  MILK. 

Crack  the  hickory-nuts  and  pick  out  the  kernels  ;  grind 
them  through  the  mill,  being  careful  not  to  grind  them  too 
fine  or  they  will  be  oily.  Then  to  each  heaping  cupful 


74  ( 11' IDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

of  the  nut  meal  add  i  \  cups  of  lukewarm  water  and 
beat  thoroughly,  rubbing  the  mixture  against  the  side  of  the 
dish  with  the  back  of  the  spoon.  Then  line  a  large  bowl 
with  two  thicknesses  of  clean,  strong  cheese-cloth,  pour  in 
the  nuts,  and  squeeze  out  the  milk.  After  the  milk  is  taken 
out,  the  remainder  can  be  made  into  sausages  or  gravy. 

PINE-NUT  MILK. 

Grind  the  pine-nuts  through  the  mill,  and  then  add  about 
i.^  cups  of  water  to  i  cup  of  the  butter  or  meal;  beat 
well  and  press  all  the  milk  through  a  cloth.  The  remain- 
der--that  is,  the  part  that  is  left  in  the  cloth --can  be 
used  in  making  sausages,  soups,  or  in  roasts.  The  milk  can 
be  used  in  vegetables  or  in  making  gravies,  while  the  cream 
that  rises  on  top  is  excellent  for  making  crisps,  rolls,  cakes, 
and  pie  crust. 

CHUFAS  MILK. 

Select  good,  fresh  chufas,  wash  them  well  in  several  waters, 
and  grind  quite  fine;  then  pour  over  them  hot  water  enough 
to  wet  well,  but  not  to  make  them  too  watery;  rub  well, 
pressing  them  against  the  dish,  with  the  spoon,  and  pour  into 
a  jelly-bag  made  of  two  thicknesses  of  cheese-cloth.  Then 
press  with  the  hands  to  squeeze  out  the  milk. 

COCOANUT  MILK. 

Select  a  cocoanut  that  has  milk  in  it,  cut  a  hole  in  the 
eye  of  the  nut,  and  let  out  the  milk.  Then  break  the  nut 
with  a  hammer,  remove  the  meat,  and  with  a  sharp  knife 
peel  off  the  hard,  brown,  woody  coat,  being  careful  to  take 
as  thin  a  peeling  as  possible,  as  the  most  of  the  oil  is  next  to 
the  skin.  Then  grate  through  a  cocoanut-shredder,  or  on 
any  grater,  or  grind  through  the  mill,  then  for  each  cocoanut. 


NUT    BUTTER.  75 

add  2  cups  of  boiling  water,  and  with  a  tablespoon  beat 
and  work  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Place  a  clean  new 
cheese-cloth  over  a  large  bowl,  and  pour  the  cocoanut  into  it. 
\York  well  with  the  hands,  and  squeeze  out  all  the  milk 
possible,  then  empty  the  cloth  into  a  stew-pan,  pour  boiling 
water  over  it  the  same  as  before,  work  well  again,  and  squeeze 
through  the  cloth  the  second  time.  You  will  then  have  all 
the  milk  that  can  be  taken  out,  but  the  cocoanut  can  be 
cooked  in  water  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  and  then 
strained,  and  the  water  used  for  making  pie,  the  same  as  in 
cocoanut-pie  recipe. 


NUT  MEAL 


PEANUT  MEAL. 

HEAT  the  nuts  sufficiently  to  remove  the  skins  ;  but  do 
not  brown  them.  Blanch  and  look  over.  Boil  until 
real  tender,  taking1  care  to  have  them  quite  dry  when  done. 
Drain  off  all  the  water  possible,  and  put  them  through  a 
vegetable  press,  or  colander.  Put  on  tins  suspended  over 
the  stove,  or  in  a  very  slow  oven  with  the  door  open.  Do 
not  brown  the  nuts-- only  dry  them.  When  perfectly  dry, 
i^rind  through  the  mill  loosely  adjusted.  If  it  is  not  fine 
enough,  let  it  dry  out  some  more,  tighten  the  mill  a  little, 
and  grind  again  ;  and  if  it  is  desired  very  fine,  rub  through 
a  flour  sieve. 

PEANUT  MEAL  NO.  2. 

A  very  rich  meal  can  be  made  by  grinding  the  raw  peanuts 
after  the  hulls  have  been  removed,  being  careful  not  to  get  it 
too  fine,  or  it  will  be  oily.  Then  steam  the  raw  meal  in  a 
steam-cooker  for  three  or  four  hours.  Remove  from  the 
steamer,  and  spread  on  tins  to  dry.  When  perfectly  dry, 
grind  through  the  mill.  It  will  not  be  so  light  a  meal  as  that 
made  from  boiled  peanuts,  but  seems  to  be  richer  in  fats.  If 
this  meal  is  ground  through  a  tightly  adjusted  mill,  it  makes 
an  excellent  butter,  and  can  be  eaten  by  those  who  can  not 
assimilate  the  roasted  peanut  butter. 
[76] 


NUT    MEAL.  77 

ALMOND  MEAL. 

Blanch  the  almonds  the  same  as  directed  for  making  alm- 
ond butter.  Then  dry  them  in  the  oven  or  where  it  is  real 
warm,  taking  care  not  to  scorch.  When  very  dry,  chop  fine 
by  putting  through  a  meat-chopper  or  mill  ;  return  to  the 
oven,  and  dry  very  slowly  and  thoroughly.  When  cold, 
grind  through  the  meat-chopper  again  or  through  a  loosely 
adjusted  nut-butter  mill. 

PINE-NUT  MEAL. 

This  is  the  easiest  of  all  meals  to  make,  as  the  nuts  need 
no  hulling  or  drying  before  grinding.  All  that  is  necessary  is 
to  grind  them  through  the  nut-butter  mill,  being  careful  not 
to  grind  fine  enough  to  make  them  oily  ;  or  they  may  be 
crushed  with  a  bottle  on  a  plate  or  platter.  They  are  very 
tender,  and  can  be  easily  crushed  between  the  fingers. 

WALNUT  MEAL. 

The  walnut  is  rather  oily,  and  if  ground  through  the  nut- 
butter  mill  is  likely  to  become  oily,  unless  the  mill  is  quite 
loosely  adjusted.  They  make  better  meal  if  run  through  a 
meat-chopper.  For  ordinary  purposes  they  can  be  chopped 
with  the  skins  on  ;  but  if  desired,  the  skins  may  be  removed 
by  placing  the  walnut  kernels  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes 
until  they  become  hot.  When  cold,  the  skins  may  be  easily 
rubbed  off,  and  then  chopped  or  ground. 

FILBERT    MEAL. 

The  filbert  kernel  is  quite  hard,  and  can  be  reduced  to  a 
meal  only  by  grinding  through  a  nut-butter  mill,  or  a  meat- 
chopper that  cuts  very  fine.  The  skins  may  be  removed  by 
heating  the  kernels  in  the  oven  until  they  are  very  hot  but 


78  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

not  roasted.  Remove  from  the  oven,  and  when  cool,  rub 
between  the  hands  or  on  a  blanching  sieve,  and  the  skins  will 
come  off.  Grind  through  the  nut-butter  mill. 

/ 

BUTTERNUT  MEAL. 

Crack  the  nuts  on  the  end,  and  remove  as  whole  as  pos- 
sible. Place  in  a  hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes  until  they 
become  hot,  then  cool  them,  and  the  skins  will  rub  off  easily. 
Chop  through  a  meat-chopper  or  crush  fine  with  a  glass 
rolling-pin  on  a  marble  slab.  If  a  marble  slab  and  glass 
rolling-pin  are  not  at  hand,  use  a  large  plate  or  platter  and  a 
round  bottle.  They  may  be  used  without  removing  the  skins, 
and  are  just  as  well  for  cake,  as  the  skins  give  it  a  spicy  flavor. 

HICKORY,  PECAN,  AND  OTHER  NUTS 

Can  be  made  into  meal  the  same  as  walnuts.  They  are 
usually  used  with  the  skins  on,  as  they  are  quite  difficult  to 
remove. 


SAUSAGES. 


HICKORY-NUT   SAUSAGE. 

TO  i  cup  of  hickory-nut  meal,  add  i  egg,  a  pinch  each  of 
salt  and  sage,  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  gluten.  Mix  well, 
adding  the  well-beaten  egg  the  last,  form  into  round  cakes 
with  the  hands,  and  bake  until  brown.  Serve  hot  on  a  plat- 
ter, with  a  hickory-nut  gravy  poured  over.  This  can  be  made 
from  what  is  left  after  the  milk  has  been  extracted,  but  less 
gluten  will  be  required. 

PEANUT  SAUSAGES. 

Take  i  tablespoonful  peanut  butter,  3  tablespoonfuls  glu- 
ten or  dry  bread-crumbs,  a  little  salt,  sage,  and  parsley.  The 
parsley  should  be  minced  very  fine.  Dissolve  the  nut  butter 
in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  add  the  gluten,  sage,  salt,  and 
parsley,  mix  well  together,  and  form  into  small  cakes  with 
the  hands.  Place  on  an  oiled  tin,  and  bake  in  the  oven,  or 
cook  on  top  of  the  stove  ;  cook  on  both  sides.  When  done, 
place  in  a  platter  and  pour  over  them  Peanut  Gravy  No.  i. 
(See  Index.) 

PINE-NUT    SAUSAGES. 

Take  4  tablespoonfuls  of  finely  ground  zwieola,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  pine-nut  meal,  }3  cup  water,  a  little  sage,  celery, 
and  salt.  Pour  the  water  on  the  zwieola,  and  let  it  soak  for 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes  ;  then  add  the  other  ingredients  and 
mix  well  ;  if  too  dry,  add  more  water,  but  be  careful  and 
have  it  as  dry  as  can  be  handled  well ;  form  with  the  hands 

[79] 


8O  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

into  small  cakes,  and  bake  on  oiled  tins.  When  done,  place 
in  a  platter,  and  pour  over  them  the  following  gravy  :— 

Take  I  cup  boiling  water,  I  tablespoonful  pine-nut  meal, 
and  I  tablespoonful  white  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold 
water. 

Stir  the  flour  into  the  hot  water,  add  the  meal  and  salt, 
and  a  little  grated  onion,  let  it  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
pour  over  the  sausage. 

FILBERT  SAUSAGE. 

Take  4  tablespoonfuls  zwieola  and  soak  in  |  cup  of  cold 
water  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  filbert 
meal,  a  pinch  of  sifted  sage,  I  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion, 
salt  to  taste ;  mix  well,  and  if  too  dry,  add  a  little  more 
water,  but  as  little  as  possible  and  have  it  stick  together. 
Make  into  small  cakes  with  the  hands,  place  on  an  oiled  tin, 
and  bake  in  the  oven  or  cook  on  top  of  the  stove,  and  turn 
over  when  brown  on  one  side.  When  done,  place  on  a 
platter,  and  pour  over  them  a  gravy  made  of  filbert  meal  as 
follows  :  - 

Take  I  cup  water,  I  heaping  tablespoonful  filbert  meal, 
and  I  tablespoonful  white  flour,  a  little  grated  onion,  and  a 
little  salt. 

Heat  the  water  to  boiling  ;  dissolve  the  meal  in  a  little 
warm  water,  put  in  the  flour  and  salt,  and  rub  it  smooth, 
then  stir  all  into  the  boiling  water,  and  cook  for  a  few 
minutes. 

PECAN  SAUSAGE. 

Take  3  tablespoonfuls  of  finely  ground  zwieola  and  soak  in 
^  cup  water  until  quite  soft,  but  not  mushy  ;  then  add  2 
small  tablespoonfuls  of  pecan  meal,  a  pinch  of  sage,  and  a 
little  grated  onion  ;  salt  to  taste.  Mix  all  together  and  form 


SAUSAGES.  8 1 

» 

into  round  pancakes  about  one-half  inch  thick.  The  mixture 
should  be  as  thick  as  can  be  handled  conveniently.  Put 
them  on  oiled  tins,  and  bake  in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the 
stove  until  nicely  browned  on  both  sides.  Place  in  a  platter 
and  pour  over  them  a  gravy  made  of  pecans.  (See  Pecan 
Gravy. ) 


NUT  OIL 


NUT  OIL  NO.  I. 

T)REPARE  cocoanut  the  same  as  for  making  cocoanut 
1  cream  ;  then  grind  it  through  a  nut-butter  mill  until  it 
is  quite  fine.  To  i  cup  of  this  add  5  or  6  cups  of  water,  and 
boil  in  a  kettle  for  an  hour  ;  then  set  in  a  cool  place,  and  the 
oil  will  rise  to  the  top,  and  will  become  hard  like  tallow  if 
the  temperature  is  not  higher  than  fifty  degrees  above  zero. 
The  sediment  will  settle  to  the  bottom,  leaving  the  oil  white 
and  clear,  retaining  a  delicate  cocoanut  flavor. 

NUT  OIL  NO.  2. 

Take  2  cups  of  medium-brown  peanut  butter  ;  add  to  it  I 
scant  cup  of  malt  extract  ;  mix  well,  and  knead  like  bread 
until  it  is  very  oily  ;  then  grind  it  through  the  nut-butter  mill, 
and  squeeze  out  what  oil  you  can  with  the  hands,  and  grind 
it  through  the  mill  the  second  time.  Squeeze  again  thor- 
oughly. This  ought  easily  to  make  one  cup  of  oil. 

The  remainder  can  be  used  in  making  malt  food.  (See 
directions  for  making  malt  food.) 

Oil  can  be  extracted  from  butter  made  from  other  nuts  by 
the  foregoing  method. 

If  there  is  any  sediment  or  particles  of  the  nuts  in  the 
oil,  let  it  stand,  and  they  will  settle,    when  the  top  can  be 
poured  off,    and  will  be  clear,    nice  oil. 
[82] 


NUT    OIL.  83 

NUT  OIL  NO.  3. 

Take  2  cups  of  peanut  butter,  or  the  butter  made  from 
any  nuts  ;  add  to  it  I  cup  of  scrghum  (or  an}-  thick)  molassej  ; 
mix  and  knead  until  it  is  very  oily,  and  finish  the  same  as 
Nut  Oil  No.  2. 

NUT  OIL  NO.  i. 

When  making  fruitosia,  the  sweetness  of  the  fruit  will  start 
the  oil,  and  after  it  is  ground  through  the  mill,  some  of  the 
oil  may  be  pressed  out,  and  the  food  will  then  be  rich  enough. 
In  an  ordinary  family  this  will  furnish  oil  enough  for  oiling 
pans,  etc. 


NUTMEATOSE,  NUTORA,  ETC. 


IX  order  to  have  these  foods  a  perfect  success,  care  must  be 
taken  to  have  them  well  cooked.  They  are  better  if  cooked 
in  sealed  cans,  and  under  a  high  pressure  of  steam,  as  they 
will  then  be  quite  solid,  and  can  be  stewed  without  crumbling. 
The  higher  temperature  used,  and  the  longer  they  are  cooked, 
the  more  solid  the  foods  will  be,  and  less  starch  and  other 
ingredients  will  be  required  with  the  nuts.  When  it  can  be 
afforded,  we  advise  getting  a  good  steam-cooker,  as  better 
results  can  be  obtained.  The  Ideal  steam-cooker  can  not  be 
too  highly  recommended.  But  they  are  very  good  if  cooked 
in  a  common  baking-powder  can  ;  or  any  can  or  pail  will  do 
which  has  straight  sides  and  a  tight  cover,  with  an  opening  the 
full  size  of  the  can,  so  when  the  food  is  cold  it  can  be  easily 
taken  out  of  the  can.  These  foods  may  be  cooked  in  a  bag 
made  of  thick,  firm  white  muslin,  which  should  be  well 
scalded  before  using,  and  when  filled,  tied  with  a  stout  twine. 

An  economical  way  of  obtaining  sealed  cans  is  to  unsolder 
all  the  fruit  and  vegetable  cans  which  you  may  purchase  of 
your  grocer,  — -  unsoldering  the  little  cap  which  covers  the 
opening.  This  can  be  done  with  any  hot  iron.  After  the 
cans  are  cleansed,  and  filled  with  the  nut  mixture,  the  little 
cap  can  be  soldered  on  again.  Cans  can  not  be  used  but 
once  this  way  ;  but  the  contents  will  keep  well  if  thoroughly 
cooked. 

If  an  ordinary  steamer  is  used,  more  time  will  be  required 
for  cooking,  as  it  is  not  possible  to  get  the  ordinary  steamer 
[84] 


NUTMEATOSE,      NUTORA,     ETC.  8$ 

so  tight  but  that  some  of  the  steam  will  escape.  If  these 
foods  are  to  be  kept  for  any  length  of  time,  they  must  be  put 
into  sealed  cans,  and  cooked  for  about  five  hours. 

They  can  be  cooked  in  a  double  boiler,  also  in  a  covered 
kettle  of  water  ;  if  the  can  or  pail  is  not  sealed,  too  much 
water  should  not  be  used.  The  cover  of  the  dish  should  be 
tied  on  or  weighted,  and  the  water  should  not  be  deep  enough 
to  cover  the  dish. 

For  those  who  desire  a  change,  there  is  a  wide  field  open 
before  them  ;  by  using  different  kinds  of  nuts,  and  combining 
them  with  all  the  different  kinds  of  grains,  vegetables,  and 
seasonings,  hundreds  of  various  foods  can  be  made.  A  little 
effort  and  experience  is  all  that  is  necessary. 

NUTORA  OF  PEANUTS. 

Take  2  cups  of  raw  nut  butter  or  nut  meal,  add  i  cup 
of  water,  and  salt  to  taste  ;  beat  with  an  egg  beater  for  five 
minutes  or  more,  then  put  into  cans,  and  cook  three  or  four 
hours.  If  i  cup  more  of  water  and  I  cup  of  corn-starch  are 
added,  it  will  not  be  so  rich  and  oily. 

PEANUTS  AND  STARCH  NUTORA. 

Take  2  cups  of  raw  nut  butter,  i  cup  of  water,  salt  to 
taste  ;  add  4  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch.  Dis- 
solve the  starch  in  the  water,  and  add  the  other  ingredients  ; 
mix  thoroughly,  and  beat  well  with  a  spoon  for  several  min- 
utes, then  place  in  cans,  and  cook  in  a  steam-cooker  or 
steamer  for  three  or  four  hours. 

The  corn-starch  makes  it  more  solid. 


86  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


NUTORA  WITH  PEANUTS  AND  EGGS. 

Take  2  cups  of  raw  peanut  butter,  i  cup  of  water,  the 
white  of  i  egg,  and  salt  to  taste.  Add  the  water  to  the 
butter,  a  little  at  a  time,  until  it  is  smooth.  It  should  be 
thin  enough  to  beat  with  an  egg  beater  ;  if  it  is  not,  add 
more  water,  and  beat  for  five  minutes.  Then  take  the  white 
of  i  egg,  and  beat  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  it  to  the  nut  but- 
ter, and  beat  again  for  a  few  minutes  ;  put  it  in  cans,  and 
cook  for  three  hours. 


PEANUT  AND  ALMOND  NUTORA. 

Take  i  cup  of  almond  butter,  made  from  good,  sweet 
almonds,  2  cups  of  raw  peanut  butter,  salt  to  taste,  and  i^ 
cups  of  water,  or  enough  so  it  can  be  beaten,  but  it  must  be 
as  stiff  as  possible.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  beat  with  an 
egg  beater  for  five  minutes  or  longer,  and  cook  in  cans  for 
three  hours  or  longer.  This  makes  it  very  rich  ;  if  it  is  not 
desired  so  rich,  add  i^  cups  more  of  water  and  i  }2  cups  of 
corn-starch. 

PEANUT  AND  PINE-NUT  NUTORA. 

Take  2  cups  of  raw  peanut  butter,  i  cup  of  pine-nut  but- 
ter, 3  cups  of  water,  and  salt  to  taste.  Dissolve  the  butter 
with  the  water,  adding  a  little  at  a  time;  then  add  salt  to 
suit  the  taste,  and  beat  with  an  egg  beater  for  a  few  min- 
utes; place  in  cans,  and  cook  in  the  steamer  for  three  or 
four  hours.  If  the  cans  are  sealed,  they  can  be  cooked  in  a 
kettle  of  water.  If  you  desire  it  to  be  thick  and  firm  like 
cheese,  a  little  corn-starch  or  flour  can  be  added --about  6 
tablespoonfuls. 


NUTMEATOSE,      NUTORA,     ETC.  87 

PINE-NUT  NUTORA  NO.  J. 

Take  i  cup  of  ground  pine-nuts,  i  cup  of  beans  or  peas,  i 
cup  of  water,  salt  to  taste.  Add  the  water,  nut  meal,  and  salt, 
and  beat  with  an  egg  beater  for  five  minutes  or  longer.  Then 
add  the  peas  or  beans,  mix  thoroughly,  put  into  cans,  and  cook 
for  two  hours  or  longer. 

PINE-NUT  NUTORA  NO.  2. 

Take  i  cup  of  roasted  pine-nut  butter,  i  cup  of  raw  pea- 
nut butter,  2  cups  of  water,  i  cup  of  corn-starch,  or  white 
Hour.  Dissolve  the  starch  in  a  little  of  the  water,  pour  it  on 
the  butter,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  worked  in,  add  the  rest  of  the 
water,  a  little  at  a  time,  until  all  is  smooth;  add  the  salt, 
beat  for  a  few  minutes,  and  put  into  cans;  this  can  be  cooked 
in  common  baking-powder  cans,  but  it  will  keep  only  a  few 
days.  If  cooked  in  sealed  cans  for  five  hours,  it  will  keep  for 
any  length  of  time  before  it  is  opened;  after  opening,  it  will 
spoil  in  a  few  days,  unless  kept  very  cold.  This  is  a  very 
good  substitute  for  meat;  the  roasted  pine-nuts  give  it  a  meaty 
flavor. 

PINE-NUT  NUTORA  NO.  3. 

Take  2  cups  of  roasted  pine-nut  butter,  2  cups  of  water, 
i  cup  of  corn-starch  or  white  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 
Add  the  corn-starch  and  salt  to  the  butter,  and  dissolve  in  a 
little  water,  adding  a  little  at  a  time;  beat  for  five  minutes, 
and  cook  in  cans,  or  it  may  be  cooked  in  a  bag  made  of  good, 
thick  muslin.  If  the  nutora  is  for  making  hash,  or  cooking, 
it  is  best  to  be  made  real  solid,  then  do  not  give  much  room 
for  swelling.  Tie  the  bag  tight,  and  steam,  or  it  may  be 
boiled  if  desired.  It  will  not  need  to  cook  more  than  an 
hour.  When  done,  rip  the  bag  open,  roll  the  contents, 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

which  should  be  solid,  on  a  tin,  brush  with  nut  cream,  and 
set  in  the  oven  to  brown;  serve  hot  or  cold.  This  tastes 
almost  like  meat. 

ALMOND  NUTORA  NO.  J. 

Take  some  good  sweet  almonds, --if  any  bitter  almonds 
are  used,  it  spoils  the  flavor,-- blanch  them,  and  put  them 
in  the  oven  to  roast  to  a  nice  straw  color.  When  perfectly 
cold,  grind  through  a  nut-butter  mill.  Take  I  cup  of  this 
roasted  almond  butter,  2  cups  of  water,  I  cup  of  raw  peanut 
butter,  i  cup  of  corn-starch  or  white  flour,  and  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  salt.  Dissolve  the  butter  and  starch  in  the  water,  and 
add  the  other  ingredients;  then  beat  for  five  minutes,  pour 
into  cans,  and  steam  for  four  hours.  This  has  a  nice  meaty 
flavor. 

ALMOND  NUTORA  NO.  2. 

Take  2  cups  of  almond  butter  made  from  the  roasted 
almonds,  2  cups  of  water,  2\  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  I  cup  of 
corn-starch.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  thoroughly,  and  cook  in 
cans  or  in  a  bag  for  two  hours.  The  roasting  of  the  nuts 
gives  it  a  more  meaty  flavor,  and  is  very  good. 

ONION  NUTORA. 

Take  2  cups  of  raw  peanut  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
onions,  2  cups  of  water,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and  i  cup  of 
corn-starch.  Dissolve  the  butter  and  starch  with  the  water, 
add  the  other  ingredients,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Pour  into 
tin  cans,  and  cook  for  three  hours. 

TOMATO  NUTORA. 

Take  2  cups  of  raw  peanut  butter,  i  cup  of  corn-starch  or 
flour,  2  cups  of  tomato  juice,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Dis- 
solve the  butter  and  starch  in  the  tomato  juice,  add  the  salt, 


NUTMEATOSE,      NUTORA,     ETC.  89 

and  beat  for  five  minutes.      Then  pour  into  cans,  and  steam 
for  four  or  five  hours. 

The  tomato  gives  the  nutora  a  nice  salmon  color,  as  well 
as  an  excellent  flavor.  It  is  very  good  to  use  in  making  mock 
salmon  salad,  etc. 

PECAN  NUTORA. 

Take  I  cup  of  pecan  butter,  i^  cups  of  raw  peanut  but- 
ter, 2  cups  of  water,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  i  cup  of  corn- 
starch  or  flour.  Add  the  salt  to  the  water,  and  dissolve  the 
starch  and  butter  in  the  water,  adding  a  little  water  at  a 
time  to  keep  it  from  getting  lumpy.  Beat  for  five  minutes, 
and  pour  into  cans.  Steam  for  four  or  five  minutes. 

PRUNE  NUTORA. 

Cook  the  prunes  until  they  are  tender  and  quite  dry. 
Rub  them  through  a  colander  ;  to  i  cup  of  sifted  prunes  add 
i  cup  of  raw  peanut  butter,  ii  cups  of  water,  i  cup  of  corn- 
starch,  a  little  salt  and  sugar  to  suit  the  taste.  Mix  the  in- 
gredients by  first  dissolving  the  butter  and  starch  in  the 
water,  and  adding  the  rest.  Beat  for  five  minutes,  and 
steam  in  cans  for  three  hours. 

BANANA  NUTORA. 

Take  good,  ripe  bananas,  peel  them,  and  mash  with  a  sil- 
ver fork.  Then  to  2  cups  of  the  mashed  bananas,  add  i  cup 
of  raw  peanut  butter,  i  cup  of  water,  ^  cup  of  sugar,  ^  cup 
of  corn-starch,  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  all  together  well,  and 
beat  for  five  or  ten  minutes.  Pour  into  cans,  and  steam  for 
three  hours. 

This  changes  its  color  if  exposed  to  the  air  for  any  great 
length  of  time.  Therefore  keep  it  well  covered  until  needed, 


90  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

NUT  CHEESE. 

Take  i  cup  of  nut  butter,  2  cups  of  water,  ^  cup  of  flour 
(Pillsbury's  or  Gold  Medal).  Rub  the  butter  perfectly  smooth 
by  adding  the  water  slowly,  then  add  the  flour,  and  lastly  the 
salt.  Pour  into  tin  cans  with  a  tight-fitting  cover,  and  steam 
in  a  steam-cooker  or  in  a  kettle  of  water  with  something  in 
the  bottom  of  the  kettle  to  set  them  on.  Cook  from  two  to 
three  hours.  This  can  be  varied  by  adding  sage,  celery  salt, 
or  caraway  seed  ground  fine. 


NUTMEATO. 


NUTMEATO  NO.  J. 

TAKE  2\  cups  jf  strong  coffee  made  from  cereal  coffee,  2 
cups  of  nut  butter,  i  cup  of  corn-starch,  and  I  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt.  Combine  the  ingredients  by  mixing  the  corn- 
starch,  butter,  and  salt  first  ;  then  put  in  the  coffee  by  adding 
a  little  at  a  time,  and  mixing  until  smooth.  Put  into  a  can 
or  dish  with  tight-fitting  cover,  and  cook  in  a  closed  steamer 
or  kettle  for  from  three  to  five  hours.  Sealed  cans  give  better 
results,  and  may  be  used  if  desired.  The  contents  of  the 
cans  will  be  firm,  and  when  cool,  may  be  cut  into  slices  and 
served  as  cheese  or  meat.  Use  lentil  dressing  as  a  gravy  with 
the  nutmeato. 

NUTMEATO  NO.  2. 

Take  i  cup  of  nut  butter,  i  cup  of  strained  stewed  toma- 
toes, \  cup  of  water,  i  cup  of  corn-starch  or  browned  flour, 
and  salt  to  suit  the  taste.  Proceed  as  in  No.  i. 

NUTMEATO  NO.  3. 

Take  2  cups  of  nut  butter,  i  \  cups  of  water,  3  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  corn-starch,  |  teaspoonful  of  sage,  and  i  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Prepare  the  same  as  the  other  recipes. 

NUTMEATO  NO.  4. 

Take  2  cups  of  butter,  2  cups  of  water,  i  cup  of  cooked 
navy  or  lima  beans,  rubbed  through  a  colander,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  corn-starch,  and  i  level  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cook  as 
directed  in  the  above  recipes. 

[91] 


92  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

NUTMEATO  NO.  5. 

Take  2  cups  of  nut  butter,  2  cups  of  water,  whites  of  4 
eggs,  and  I  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cook  as  in  the  former 
recipes. 

NUTMEATO  NO.  6. 

It  is  a  recognized  fact  that  nut  butter  when  once  emulsified 
for  the  table  will  not  "keep  over,"  but  is  likely  to  ferment 
unless  the  temperature  is  low.  However,  no  waste  need 
occur,  for  it  may  be  so  preserved  as  to  be  ready  for  use  in  the 
preparation  of  palatable  dishes  by  the  following  methods : 
Add  to  it  three  times  as  much  water  as  has  already  been 
used,  and  stir  in  enough  white  flour  to  make  it  of  the  con- 
sistency of  rich  cream.  Put  in  a  baking  dish  broad  enough 
so  the  cream  will  not  be  more  than  two  inches  deep,  and 
bake  until  quite  firm.  It  is  good  to  use  for  sandwiches, 
sliced  as  cold  meat,  and  in  other  recipes. 

NUTMEATO  ROAST  NO  I. 

Take  I  pint  of  zwieola  or  toasted  bread-crumbs,  I  pint  of 
water,  ^  pint  of  strained  tomatoes,  and  ^  pound  of  nutmeato, 
made  fine  by  being  put  through  a  colander  or  meat-chopper. 
Flavor  with  finely  sifted  sage.  Mix  all  thoroughly  together, 
add  salt  to  taste,  and  bake  in  shallow  pans  until  brown. 

NUTMEATO  ROAST  NO.  2. 

Cut  i  pound  of  nutmeatose  into  pieces,  and  boil  until  very 
tender  ;  then  drain  and  mash.  To  2  cups  of  zwieola,  add 
the  water  in  which  the  nutmeatose  has  been  boiled,  and 
enough  more  hot  water  to  make  the  zwieola  of  the  consistency 
of  mush.  Season  to  suit  taste  with  salt  and  sage.  Add  this 
to  the  mashed  nutmeatose,  mixing  well  ;  put  into  an  oiled 


NUTMEATO.  93 

pudding  dish  and  bake  for  about  an  hour.  Slice  and  serve 
either  warm  or  cold.  Toasted  bread-crumbs  may  be  used 
instead  of  zwieola. 

MOCK   NUTMEATO   ROAST. 

Boil  2  cups  of  lentils  for  several  hours.  Run  through  a 
colander.  Grind  i  cup  of  roasted  peanuts,  and  add  them  to 
the  lentils.  To  2  cups  zwieola  or  toasted  bread-crumbs,  add 
sufficient  hot  water  to  make  it  of  the  consistency  of  mush. 
Season  to  suit  taste  with  salt  and  sage.  Mix  all  the  ingredi- 
ents, place  in  an  oiled  pudding  dish,  bake,  and  serve  same  as 
nutmeato  roast.  Beans  may  be  substituted  for  lentils  if  the 
latter  can  not  be  obtained. 

NUTMEATO  HASH. 

Chop  together  3  parts  cold  baked  potatoes,  i  part  nut- 
meato, and  i  part  tomatoes  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Flavor 
with  finely  sifted  sage,  if  desired,  and  season  with  salt.  Bake 
till  brown.  Leave  out  tomatoes  if  preferred. 

NUTMEATO  STEW. 

Cut  nutmeato  into  small  cubes,  place  in  the  inner  part  of 
a  double  cooker,  cover  well  with  water,  and  cook  two  or  three 
hours.  Just  before  serving,  thicken  the  liquid  with  browned 
flour,  and  season  with  salt.  Strained  tomatoes  may  be  used 
instead  of  water,  and  are  preferred  by  many.  Prolonged 
cooking  produces  the  best  results. 

NUTMEATO  AND  POTATO  STEW. 

Stew  together  2  parts  potatoes,  coarsely  and  irregularly 
cut,  and  i  part  nutmeato  cut  into  cubes,  until  potatoes  are 
done.  It  may  be  flavored  with  celery  or  onions,  which 


94  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

should  be  added  just  long  enough  before  the  stew  is  cooked 
to  extract  the  flavor.  Salt  just  before  it  is  done.  Strained 
tomatoes  may  be  used  instead  of  water  if  preferred. 

NUTMEATO  GRAVY. 

In  I  quart  of  boiling  salted  water  put  nearly  i  pint  of 
cubes  cut  from  nutmeato.  In  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes 
thicken  with  browned  or  plain  flour. 

RICE  WITH   NUTMEATO. 

Cook  rice  in  boiling  salted  water,  having  it  of  the  consist- 
ency desired.  Cut  a  portion  of  nutmeato  into  cubes,  and 
distribute  it  evenly  through  the  rice.  Cook  slowly  and  stew 
without  stirring  again. 

MACARONI  WITH  NUTMEATO. 

Break  macaroni  into  inch  lengths  and  drop  gradually  into 
just  enough  boiling  salted  water  so  that  it  will  be  of  the  right 
consistency  to  serve.  Cut  nutmeato  into  cubes  or  slices  and 
stir  them  in  when  the  macaroni  begins  to  be  tender.  Care 
must  be  taken  that  the  macaroni  does  not  burn  or  fasten  to 
the  bottom. 

BAKED  NUTMEATO  HASH. 

Take  2  cups  of  chopped  cold  boiled  potatoes,  i  of  chopped 
nutmeato,  and  i  grated  onion  ;  salt  to  taste.  Put  in  an  oiled 
baking  dish,  and  add  i  tablespoonful  of  water,  and  bake  one- 
half  hour  in  moderate  oven.  The  above  may  be  flavored 
with  celery  salt  if  desired. 

NUTMEATO  STEAK. 

Take  nutmeato  that  has  been  cooked  in  cans  about  three 
inches  in  diameter.  Remove  from  can  by  cutting  around  edge 
of  the  can,  and  pressing  on  the  bottom,  cut  off  into  slices 


NUTMKATO.  95 

one-half  inch  thick,  being  careful  not  to  break  in  pieces. 
Place  on  tins  and  toast  in  the  oven.  \\'hen  toasted,  place 
on  meat  platter,  and  pour  over  it  a  nut  gravy  made  accord- 
ing to  recipe  No.  i. 

NUTGRANO  NO.  J. 

Take  2  cups  of  oatmeal,  or  chopped  oats,  I  cup  of  raw 
peanut  butter,  salt  to  suit  the  taste,  and  3  cups  of  hot  water. 
Mix  well,  adding  a  little  water  at  a  time,  until  it  is  all  smooth. 
Beat  for  a  few  minutes,  and  cook  in  cans  the  same  as  nut- 
meatose  for  four  or  five  hours. 

This  can  be  spread  on  the  bread,  and  makes  a  fine  substi- 
tute for  butter. 

If  the  water  is  set  on  the  stove  and  the  grains  stirred  in 
and  allowed  to  thicken  some  before  the  other  ingredients  are 
added,  it  will  not  be  so  liable  to  settle  to  the  bottom  in 


cooking. 


NUTGRANO  NO.  2. 


Take  3  cups  of  pearl  barley,  i  cup  of  roasted  pine-nut 
butter,  8  cups  of  water,  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Roast 
the  pine-nuts  by  baking  them  in  the  oven  until  they  are  of  a 
light-brown  color.  When  they  are  cold,  grind  them  to  a  but- 
ter, using  i  cupful  of  it.  Add  the  other  ingredients  ;  mix  and 
cook  in  cans  in  a  steam-cooker  for  five  hours. 

It  is  best  to  cook  the  barley  in  the  water  for  a  few  min- 
utes before  adding  the  other  ingredients.  This  will  prevent 
it  from  settling  to  the  bottom. 

• 

NUTGRANO  NO.  3. 

Take  2  cups  of  white  corn-meal  (the  yellow  will  do),  i 
cup  of  roasted  almond  butter,  made  by  roasting  the  blanched 
almonds  in  the  oven  until  they  are  of  a  straw  color,  and  when 


96  Gl'IDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

cold,  grinding  them  to  a  butter,  adding  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 
Mix  all  thoroughly  with  5  cups  of  water,  and  cook  like  the 
foregoing  recipe. 

NUTGRANO  NO.  4. 

Make  like  the  above,  only  use  2  cups  of  wheaten  grits  in- 
stead of  corn-meal,  and  use  only  4.\  cups  of  hot  water. 
Cook  the  grits  in  the  water  for  a  few  minutes  before  add- 
ing the  rest. 

NUTGRANO  NO.  5. 

Take  2  cups  of  crystal  wheat,  i  cup  of  roasted  pine-nut 
butter,  8  cups  of  water,  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix,  and  cook  in 
cans  for  four  or  Jive  hours.  First  cook  the  grain  with  the 
water  for  a  few  minutes. 

NUTGRANO  NO.  6. 

Take  3  cups  of  rolled  oats,  I  cup  of  almond  meal.  3? 
cups  of  water,  and  i  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  well,  and 
cook  like  the  preceding  recipes. 

NUTGRANO  NO.   7. 

Take  2  cups  of  farina,  i  12  cups  of  pecan  meal,  8  A  cups  of 
water,  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Mix  well,  and  cook  like 
preceding  recipes. 

NUTGRANO  NO.  8. 

Take  2  cups  of  wheaten  grits,  i  cup  of  raw  peanut  but- 
ter, 4  cups  of  water,  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  well  and  cook 
like  the  above. 

NUTGRANO  NO.  9. 

Take  2  cups  of  zwieola,  2  cups  of  roasted  peanut  butter, 
6  cups  of  water,  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  all  well  and  cook  like 
the  other  recipes. 


NUTMEATO.  97 

By  combining  different  nuts  with  different  grains  man\ 
kinds  of  nutgrano  may  be  made. 

NUTGRANO  NO.  JO. 

Take  i  cup  of  roasted  peanut  butter,  i^  cups  of  granose, 
and  1 1  cups  of  water,  salt  to  taste.  Take  granose  flakes,  and 
heat  them  in  the  oven,  and  rub  with  the  hands  until  quite 
fine.  Stir  i^  cups  of  this  into  the  butter,  which  has  been 
diluted  with  the  water,  add  the  salt,  and  sage  if  desired. 
Put  into  cans  and  cook  the  same  as  in  the  above  recipes. 

The  above  can  also  be  made  with  raw  peanut  butter  by 
using  2  cups  of  water. 

NUTMEATOSE  NO.  J. 

Take  2  cups  of  peanut  butter,  2\  cups  of  water,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  No.  3  gluten,  and  i  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix 
all  the  ingredients  together  very  thoroughly,  and  cook  in  cans. 
(Sealed  cans  are  preferable.)  Cook  from  three  to  five  hours. 

NUTMEATOSE  NO.  2. 

Make  like  the  foregoing  recipe,  and  add  2  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  ground  sage,  or  i  small  white  onion  grated  fine. 
Both  onion  and  sage  may  be  added  if  desired. 

NUTMEATOSE  NO.  3. 

Take  i  cup  of  nut  butter,  i  cup  of  sifted  red  kidney 
beans,  ii  cups  of  water,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  and 
i  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cook  the  beans  until  tender,  and  rub 
them  through  a  colander.  To  i  cup  of  this  sifted  pulp  add 
the  other  ingredients  ;  mix  thoroughly,  and  cook  like  the  pre- 
ceding recipe. 
7 


f>3  C.flDE    KOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

NUTMEATOSE   NO.  4. 

Take  I  cup  of  nut  butter,  I  cup  of  sifted  Scotch  peas, 
i  \  cups  of  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  and 
i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

First  cook  the  peas  as  directed  elsewhere,  then  sift  through 
a  colander,  and  use  i  cup  after  they  are  sifted  ;  add  the  other 
ingredients,  and  cook  the  same  as  in  Nutmeatose  No.  i . 

NUTMEATOSE  NO.  5. 

Make  like  the  preceding  recipe,  only  use  i  cup  of  sifted 
lentils  in  the  place  of  the  Scotch  peas. 

NUTMEATOSE  NO,  6. 

Make  like  recipe  No.  4,  only  use  i  cup  of  cooked  split 
peas  in  the  place  of  the  Scotch  peas,  and  leave  out  the 
starch. 

NUTMEATOSE   NO.  7. 

Take  2  cups  of  chestnut  meal,  made  by  first  removing 
them  from  the  shell,  then  blanching  them  by  pouring  on  boil- 
ing water  and  letting  them  stand  a  few  minutes  in  it,  and 
then  grinding  in  a  meat-chopper,  or  they  may  be  dried  and 
ground  in  a  hand  grist-mill  or  coffee-mill.  To  this  add  i  cup 
of  raw  peanut  butter,  2  cups  of  water,  and  salt  to  taste. 
Mix  well,  and  cook  as  in  Nutmeatose  No.  i. 

FRUTOSE. 

Take  .^  cup  peanut  butter,  .\  cup  of  almond  butter,  and 
i  dozen  medium-sized  bananas.  Peel  the  bananas,  and  mash 
them  through  a  vegetable  press,  or  mash  with  a  silver  fork. 
Then  add  the  nut  butter,  and  beat  until  well  mixed  and 
smooth.  Pour  into  cans  with  tight  cover,  or  what  is  better, 


NUTMEATO.  99 

into  tin  cans  and  seal  them;  then  cook  in  steam-cooker  for 
two  or  three  hours.  When  done,  it  will  be  thick,  so  it  can 
be  cut  into  slices  like  nutmeato  or  cheese.  If  desired,  a  little 
sugar  may  be  added,  but  it  is  very  palatable  without  it. 

FRUITOSIA. 

Take  ^  cup  peanut  butter,  \  cup  of  almond  meal,  |  cup 
of  walnut  meal,  or  the  same  of  filbert  meal,  i  cup  of  ground 
figs,  i  cup  of  chopped  dates,  ^  cup  of  white  seedless  raisins, 
ground.  Look  over  the  raisins,  wash  and  dry  again,  then 
grind  them  through  the  nut  mill  or  meat-chopper,  or  chop  in 
a  bowl.  Do  the  same  with  the  dates.  Wash  the  figs;  then 
dry,  and  grind  through  the  nut  mill.  Have  the  mill  quite 
tightly  adjusted  and  it  will  grind  the  seeds  up  fine.  Then 
add  the  nut  butter  and  nut  meal,  which  should  be  made  first. 
Mix  all  together  thoroughly,  and  grind  through  the  mill  a 
second  time. 

FRUITOSIA   NO.  2. 

Take  i  cup  of  peanut  meal,  and  add  \  cup  of  ground 
prunes.  Mix  very  thoroughly,  and  grind  through  the  mill. 
Press  into  a  square  tin,  and  cut  into  caramels;  if  desired, 
they  may  be  wrapped  in  oiled  paper. 

FRUITOSIA  NO.  3. 

Take  i  pound  of  dried  pears,  and  A  pound  of  fine  nut 
meal  of  any  nut,  or  a  mixture  of  the  meal  of  different  nuts; 
\  pound  of  almond  meal  and  \  pound  of  pine-nut  meal  makes 
a  very  nice  compound. 

Select  nice  dried  pears;  wash,  and  dry  by  placing  in  a 
warm  place.  When  perfectly  dry,  grind  them  through  the 
mill,  mix  with  the  nut-meal,  and  grind  again.  It  is  then 
ready  to  press  into  square  tins,  and  cut  into  caramels. 


26517415 


IOO  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

FRUITOSIA  NO.  4. 

Select  good  evaporated  peaches  or  apricots,  wash  well, 
and  place  on  tins  in  a  warm  oven  until  perfectly  dry.  Then 
grind  through  a  nut  mill,  mix  with  the  fruit  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  peanut  rneal,  and  grind  through  the  mill  a  second  time. 
Press  into  square  tins  and  cut  into  caramels. 

Other  dried  fruit  may  be  used  in  the  same  way,  but  fresh 
fruits  can  not  be  used,  as  the  water  in  the  fruit  will  cause  the 
nuts  to  spoil  in  a  very  few  days. 

BUTTER  FOR  TABLE. 

Put  one  half  the  amount  of  butter  required  for  a  meal 
into  a  bowl,  and  dilute  with  an  equal  quantity  of  water,  add- 
ing a  little  at  a  time,  and  beating  it  thoroughly  with  a  fork 
until  it  is  perfectly  smooth  and  light.  An  egg  beater,  wire 
potato-masher,  or  whip  are  excellent  utensils  for  this  purpose. 
Enough  water  should  be  used  to  make  it  of  the  proper  con- 
sistency to  spread  nicely.  A  little  salt  can  be  added  if  de- 
sired, or  the  salt  may  be  sprinkled  on  after  it  is  spread  upon 
the  bread. 

Some  prefer  to  use  it  without  the  addition  of  water  ;  but 
in  this  form  it  is  quite  sticky,  and  adheres  to  the  mouth,  and 
has  a  strong  peanut  taste. 

By  using  the  water  these  objections  are  removed,  and  a 
sweet,  savory  taste  is  imparted. 

If  any  is  left,  it  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place,  as  it 
spoils  easily  after  water  has  been  added. 


NUTMEATO. 


101 


ROAST  GOOSE. 

Take  6  tablespoonfuls  of  zwieola,  pour  over  it  2\  cups 
of  water,  and  let  it  soak  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  add  4 
hard-boiled  eggs,  which  have  been  sifted  through  a  fine  sieve, 
and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and  the  white  of  i.  Save  the  whites 
of  the  other  2  eggs  for  the  basting.  Mix  well;  take  out  about 


BAKED  GOOSE. 

one  third  of  the  mixture  and  put  in  another  bowl,  and  to  the 
remaining  two  thirds,  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  pecan  meal,  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  roasted  pine-nut  butter,  I  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful  sage,  and  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  grated  onion,  and  salt 
to  suit  the  taste.  Mix  well.  Use  this  mixture  for  making 
the  back  and  legs  of  the  goose.  Then  to  the  one  third  that 
was  taken  out,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  nut  meal  made  from 
toasted  almonds,  I  tablespoonful  of  blanched  filbert  meal, 


I.O2  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

and  I  tablespoonful  roasted  pine-nut  meal,  a  little  salt,  a  lit- 
tle sage,  and  I  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice;  this  mixture  is  to 
make  the  breast  and  wings  of  the  goose.  Take  some  good, 
strong  macaroni,  break  it  into  desired  lengths  for  the  bones. 
Place  some  of  the  pecan  mixture  on  a  well-oiled  tin  or  sheet 
of  iron,  on  which  you  wish  to  bake  it,  and  shape  it  into  the 
form  of  a  goose  lying  on  its  back.  Press  into  it  a  stick  of 
macaroni  running  the  whole  length,  for  the  backbone.  Then 
build  it  up  with  the  mixture,  pressing  it  down  well.  Oil  the 
hands,  and  form  the  legs,  pressing  a  stick  of  macaroni  into 
the  center,  and  have  it  long  enough  to  reach  the  whole  length 
of  the  leg,  covering  it  up  at  the  upper  end,  but  letting  it  stick 
out  about  an  inch  at  the  other  to  represent  the  drumstick  of 
a  goose  leg.  Then  with  the  almond  mixture  form  the  breast 
of  the  goose,  making  it  quite  high,  but  not  so  high  and  full  as 
that  of  a  chicken.  The  neck  and  lower  part  of  the  body 
should  be  made  of  the  pecan  mixture,  to  represent  the  dark 
meat  of  the  fowl.  Press  the  legs  on  to  the  body,  using  a  lit- 
tle of  the  white  of  an  egg  to  stick  them  on  with.  It  is  also 
best  to  insert  some  pieces  of  macaroni,  running  it  through  the 
leg  just  below  the  leg  bone,  and  into  the  body,  covering  up 
the  end  of  it  with  a  little  of  the  dark  mixture.  This  will  help 
to  hold  the  legs  in  position  while  it  is  baking.  Make  the 
wings  of  the  almond  mixture,  fastening  them  to  the  body  in 
the  same  way  that  the  legs  were.  Then  with  a  knife,  smooth 
the  surface  of  the  goose,  and  brush  it  over  with  a  soft  cloth 
wet  in  peanut  oil,  and  place  it  in  the  oven  to  bake.  The 
oven  should  be  of  a  moderate  temperature,  and  it  should  bake 
for  one  hour;  then  remove  from  the  oven,  and  spread  with  a 
mixture  of  I  egg  well  beaten  and  I  tablespoonful  of  almond 
butter.  Return  to  the  oven,  and  let  it  bake  until  it  is  nicely 
browned.  Take  from  the  oven,  and  slide  it  carefully  on  to 
the  platter  on  which  it  is  to  be  served.  Garnish  to  suit  the 


NUTMEATO.  1 05 

taste  and  convenience;  the  one  in  the  accompanying  cut  is 
garnished  with  parsley  and  sliced  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 
A  gravy  should  be  served  with  it  made  of  i  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  roasted  pine-nut  butter,  i  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  white  flour,  i  pint  of  water,  and  a  little  salt. 

TURKEY  LEGS. 

Take  5  cup  of  water,  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  pecan  meal,  i  teaspoonful  peanut  butter,  a  little  sage  and 
salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  zwieola,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  glu- 
ten. Boil  the  eggs  until  the  yolks  are  dry  and  mealy,  and 
then  rub  both  the  whites  and  yolks  through  a  fine  wire  sieve. 
Mix  with  it  the  nut  meal  and  butter,  rubbing  until  smooth; 
then  add  a  very  little  water.  Pour  ^  cup  of  water  over  the 
zwieola,  let  it  soak  for  a  few  minutes;  add  the  other  mixture, 
beating  well,  and  lastly  add  the  gluten.  It  should  be  stiff 
enough  to  handle  well.  Take  a  large,  heaping  tablespoonful, 
press  it  around  the  piece  of  macaroni,  which  should  be  four 
or  five  inches  long,  forming  it  in  the  shape  of  a  turkey  leg, 
leaving  an  inch  or  more  of  the  macaroni  to  stick  out  to  rep- 
resent the  bone.  Roll  in  beaten  egg,  and  bake  on  an  oiled 
tin  until  a  nice  brown.  This  makes  a  pretty  dish,  and  is 
very  palatable.  Serve  with  a  pecan  gravy  with  egg. 

CHICKEN  LEGS. 

First  prepare  the  meat  of  the  mock  chicken  by  mixing  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  pecan  meal,  i  tablespoonful  nut  butter,  and 
^  cup  of  hickory  cream,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  zwieola,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  gluten,  i  cup  of  water.  Put  the  water  on  the 
zwieola,  and  let  it  soak  a  few  minutes,  then  add  the  other 
ingredients.  It  should  be  just  moist  enough  to  form  well. 
Then  take  i  large  tablespoonful,  and  roll  it  in  the  hands; 


IO4  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

have  ready  some  pieces  of  macaroni  about  live  inches  long, 
and  press  one  into  the  mixture,  leaving  out  an  inch  or  more 
to  represent  the  bone  of  the  chicken  leg,  having  the  macaroni 
in  the  center  for  the  bone.  Roll  in  beaten  egg,  place  on  an 
oiled  tin,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  nicely  browned, 
which  will  take  about  one  hour.  If  a  little  sage  or  onion  is 
added,  it  improves  the  taste  very  much. 

ROAST  TURKEY. 

To  make  a  good-sized  turkey,  take  20  heaping  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  zwieola,  20  tablespoonfuls  of  No.  3  gluten,  8  table- 
spoonfuls  of  pecan  meal,  8  tablespoonfuls  of  roasted  almond 
meal,  8  tablespoonfuls  of  black  walnut  meal,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  peanut  butter,  3  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  sage,  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  onion,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  6  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  and  3  raw  eggs.  Put  the  zwieola  in  a  large 
pan  and  pour  over  it  5  cups  of  hot  water,  and  let  it  soak 
for  fifteen  minutes  ;  then  put  the  hard-boiled  eggs  through  a 
sieve  and  add  them  to  the  zwieola  ;  add  also  the  nut  butter 
dissolved  in  water,  beat  the  eggs  and  add  them  to  the  mix- 
ture with  the  other  ingredients.  Mix  all  very  thoroughly  ;  if 
it  is  so  dry_that  it  is  crumbly,  add  more  water,  being  careful 
not  to  get  it  too  soft  or  it  will  not  hold  in  shape  well.  A 
piece  of  sheet  iron  is  nice  to  bake  it  on,  as  it  can  be  more 
easily  slipped  off.  Oil  it  with  nut  oil,  and  place  on  top  of  it 
a  thick  piece  of  muslin  saturated  with  oil  ;  upon  this  cloth 
form  a  turkey,  making  the  breast  full  and  high,  and  leaving  a 
little  piece  for  the  neck.  Press  it  together  with  the  hands, 
oiling  them  with  nut  oil  to  keep  them  from  sticking.  Then 
take  a  large  tablespoonful  of  the  mixture  into  one  hand,  and 
press  into  the  center  of  it  a  large-sized  stick  of  macaroni, 
which  is  long  enough  to  protrude  about  two  inches,  after  run- 


1  I 

gNOUVONitoj   fiau'ru 

dNV    MUTCH    'SOXKV 


SN  3H1 


o1 


KUTMEATO.  TO/ 

ning  the  length  of  the  leg  ;  with  the  hands  oiled,  shape  it  into 
the  form  of  a  turkey  leg,  using  the  white  of  an  egg  to  make 
it  stick  to  the  body,  and  secure  it  by  sticking  pieces  of 
macaroni  through  the  leg,  just  below  the  bone,  into  the  body, 
carefully  covering  the  end  of  the  macaroni  with  a  little  of  the 
mixture.  Form  the  wings  and  attach  them  to  the  body  in 
the  same  way  in  which  the  legs  were  secured.  When  the 
fowl  is  all  formed  and  smooth,  brush  it  over  with  a  cloth 
dipped  in  nut  oil,  then  bring  up  the  cloth  around  the  turkey 
and  pin  it  together  tight  enough  to  hold  the  wings  and  legs 
in  position.  Then  place  in  the  oven  and  bake  for  an  hour 
and  a  half.  Remove  from  the  oven,  unpin  the  cloth,  and 
with  the  shears  cut  off  as  much  of  it  as  possible  without  mov- 
ing the  turkey  ;  spread  the  turkey  with  a  mixture  of  beaten 
egg  and  roasted  almond  butter  with  a  little  salt  added.  Re- 
turn to  the  oven  and  bake  to  a  nice  brown.  Again  remove 
from  the  oven  and  slide  it  into  the  platter  on  which  it  is  to 
be  served.  The  garnishing,  in  the  cut,  is  cubes  of  cranberry 
jelly  and  parsley. 

NUT   LOBSTER.  - 

Take  i  pound  of  pine-nuts,  wash  and  put  them  in  the 
oven,  and  roast  to  a  light-brown  color;  then  grind  or  mash 
them  to  a  butter.  To  1.1  cups  of  this  butter  take  i.i  cups 
of  water,  i  cup  of  corn-starch,  i  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  i  heaping  tablespoonful  of  granola ;  mix  all  together 
thoroughly,  put  into  a  basin  and  steam  for  one  hour,  then 
bake  until  nicely  browned  on  top.  Cut  in  slices  and  serve. 

BAKED  TROUT, 

Take  i  cup  of  raw  peanut  butter,  i  cup  of  tomato 
squeezed  through  a  cheese-cloth,  r  cup  of  corn-starch,  and 
i  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt  ;  mix  all  together  very  thor- 


108  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

oughly  and  beat  for  five  minutes.  Make  a  bag  of  thick  mus- 
lin, cutting  it  out  the  shape  of  a  fish,  and  sew  it  up  on  a 
machine,  having  the  stitch  quite  short,  so  the  mixture  will  not 
work  through.  Leave  a  hole  in  the  end  of  the  tail  large 
enough  to  insert  a  small  funnel,  and  pour  the  mixture  into 
the  funnel,  letting  it  run  down  into  the  bag.  The  above 
mixture  is  sufficient  to  make  a  trout  eight  inches  long.  When 
full,  tie  it  with  a  stout  twine,  lay  it  on  a  tin  so  the  back  will 
be  up,  and  steam  in  a  steam-cooker  for  one  hour.  Remove 
from  the  cooker,  and  with  the  shears  or  sharp  knife  rip  the 
bag  open  from  the  head  to  the  tail,  and  carefully  pull  it  off 
from  the  fish.  Take  a  raw  potato  and  cut  it  into  quite  thin 
slices  lengthwise  ;  cut  one  of  the  slices  in  the  shape  of  a 
fish's  tail-fin,  cutting  ridges  in  it  to  represent  the  bones,  and 
slightly  notch  it  on  the  end.  Cut  a  slash  in  the  tail  of  the 
fish  and  insert  the  fin,  using  a  little  of  the  white  of  an  egg,  and 
fastening  it  with  two  pins,  which,  after  the  fish  is  baked, 
should  be  removed.  With  another  slice  of  potato  form  the 
back  fin,  and  cut  a  slash  in  the  back  long  enough  to  insert 
the  potato  fin  ;  also  insert  small  slices  of  potato  made  to 
represent  the  gills  and  the  fins  near  the  gills.  Then  with  a 
little  charcoal  and  water  (part  of  a  charcoal  tablet  will  do) 
rub  the  head  and  back  with  it,  making  the  head  almost  black, 
and  the  back  quite  a  dark  drab,  but  growing  lighter  down  on 
the  sides.  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  a  mouth  and  some  small 
round  holes  for  the  eyes,  filling  the  cavities  of  the  eyes  with 
cranberry  jelly  cut  round  ;  also  stick  some  small  round  pieces 
of  the  jelly  on -the  sides  of  the  fish  to  represent  the  red  spots 
of  a  trout.  Then  beat  the  white  of  an  egg  just  enough  to 
break  it,  but  not  enough  to  make  it  frothy  ;  baste  the  fish 
with  this,  being  careful  not  to  move  the  jelly,  but  be  sure  and 
cover  each  piece  with  egg,  so  it  will  not  melt  when  heated  in 
the  oven.  Place  in  the  oven  for  the  egg  to  set  and  the 


1 

N 

<wv 


I 

M3UrIU 


&SN  3H1 


D 
O 
Oi 

h 

Q 


CQ 


NUTMEATO.  I  I  I 

potato  fins  to  slightly  brown.      When   done,    put  on  a  platter, 
garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  with   mashed  potatoes. 

MOCK  FISH  STUFFED  AND  BAKED. 

Take  6  cups  of  water  ;  I  }2  cups  of  white  corn  grits  or  white 
corn-meal  ;    I  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

When  the  water  boils,  add  the  salt  and  stir  in  the  grits, 
continuing  to  stir  until  it  boils  ;  let  it  boil  gently  for  a  few 
minutes,  and  then  place  in  a  steam-cooker,  and  steam  for 
three  or  four  hours.  Make  a  stuffing  of  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
zwieola,  I  tablespoonful  gluten  No  3,  2  tablespoonfuls  pecan 
meal,  and  I  tablespoonful  peanut  butter,  I  tablespoonful 
almond  butter,  I  hard-boiled  egg,  ^  teaspoonful  sage,  I  tea- 
spoonful  grated  onion,  ^  teaspoonful  salt  ;  add  just  a  little 
water  until  the  mixture  makes  a  stiff  batter.  Mix  thoroughly. 
When  the  corn  grits  are  done,  oil  a  bake  tin  and  put  some  of 
the  cooked  grits  on  it,  spreading  them  in  the  form  of  a  fish, 
making  it  as  long  as  can  be  easily  served  on  the  platter  you 
intend  to  serve  it  on.  Then  put  some  of  the  dressing  the 
whole  length  of  the  fish.  Make  a  little  trough  in  the  dressing, 
and  put  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  chopped  and  seasoned  with 
celery  salt,  then  cover  the  egg  with  the  dressing  paste,  and 
cover  that  with  the  cooked  grits.  Form  more  perfectly  into 
the  shape  of  a  fish,  and  spread  with  a  diluted  nut  butter, 
using  the  slices  of  the  white  of  egg  for  the  gills  and  mouth, 
and  filberts  for  the  eyes.  Press  in  a  row  of  blanched  Jordan 
almonds  down  the  center  of  the  back  to  represent  the  dorsal 
fins,  also  use  the  almonds  to  make  the  tail.  Lard  it  across 
the  back  (see  cut)  by  sticking  in  pine-nuts.  Bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  for  half  an  hour  ;  if  it  browns  too  fast  on  top,  cover 
with  a  brown  paper,  until  ten  minutes  before  taking  from  the 
oven.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  curled  celery,  bank  the  sides 


112  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

with  potato  balls  made  by  cutting  them  from  raw  potatoes 
with  a  scoop  made  for  the  purpose,  or  make  balls  of  mashed 
potatoes.  Roll  them  in  pine-nut  butter  and  bake  in  the  oven 
until  nicely  browned.  To  make  the  curled  celery,  take  some 
nice  crisp  celery,  split  it  into  four  parts  from  both  ends,  leaving 
about  one  inch  in  the  center  to  hold  it.  Place  it  into  ice-cold 
water  for  twenty  minutes  and  it  will  be  curled  nicely.  If  the 
water  is  not  very  cold,  leave  it  in  longer. 

SAUCE  FOR    BAKED   FISH.. 

Take  I  cup  of  raw  nut  milk,  i  level  tablespoonful  of  white 
flour,  i  egg,  a  little  celery,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Heat  the 
milk  in  a  double  boiler,  when  boiling,  stir  in  the  flour,  which 
should  be  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  let  it 
cook  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Then  add  the  well-beaten 
egg,  the  celery,  and  the  salt  ;  stir  until  the  egg  is  set,  but  not 
curdled.  If  desired,  a  hard-boiled  egg  cut  into  small  pieces 
may  be  added  just  before  serving.  Serve  a  ladleful  on  one 
side  of  each  portion  of  fish.  Lemon  or  tomato  juice  may  be 
added  if  a  sour  gravy  is  desired. 

MOCK   TURKEY. 

Take  3  cups  of  sifted  lentils,  i  cup  of  walnut  butter,  i 
pound  of  zwieback  moistened  with  water,  3  heaping  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  powdered  sage,  i  cup  of  gluten,  and  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  salt.  Add  2  eggs.  Form  into  loaf  or  turkey.  The  wal- 
nuts should  be  the  black  walnuts,  as  they  give  it  more  of  a 
turkey  flavor.  The  whole-wheat  zwieback  is  best,  but  the 
white  will  do.  Beat  the  eggs  well,  and  mix  all  the  ingre- 
dients together,  adding  enough  water  to  the  zwieback  to 
moisten  it  before  adding  the  other  ingredients.  If  formed 
into  a  turkey,  it  should  be  real  stiff,  but  it  does  not  require 
to  be  so  stiff  when  cooked  in  a  loaf. 


S'HOA  M3N  3HJ, 


Q 
W 


OQ 
Q 


Q 

W 

fe 
D 
h 

00 


I-M 

e 

w 
h 


NUTMEATO. 


MOCK  FISH-BALLS. 

Take  I  pound  of  nutora  chopped  fine,  I  cup  of  almond 
meal,  3  cups  of  white  bread-crumbs  soaked  in  ^  cup  of  water 
(perhaps  more  water  will  have  to  be  added  if  the  bread  is  dry, 
but  use  as  little  as  possible),  I  cup  of  shredded  cocoanut,  I 
beaten  egg,  and  salt  to  taste  ;  add  a  little  celery  salt  if  desired  ; 
mix  all  thoroughly  and  form  into  balls  with  the  hands.  Roll 


MOCK  FISH-BALLS. 

in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  fine  bread-crumbs,  and  bake  a  nice 
brown.  When  done,  wash  some  fresh  lettuce  leaves,  wipe 
them  dry  with  a  cloth,  being  careful  not  to  bruise  them, 
arrange  on  a  plate,  and  pile  the  balls  upon  them,  as  is  shown 
in  the  cut.  In  serving,  put  a  lettuce  leaf  on  an  individual 
dish,  and  place  a  ball  upon  it.  If  a  gravy  is  served  with  it, 
it  should  be  a  white  gravy  made  of  almond  nut  or  raw  peanut 
milk,  flavored  with  celery  or  onion. 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


VEGETABLE  NUT  ROAST. 

Put  to  soak  overnight  4  cups  of  red  kidney  beans.  In  the 
morning  cook  in  plenty  of  water  until  they  are  tender,  then 
put  them  through  a  colander,  and  put  with  them  two-thirds  as 


VEGETABLE  NUT  ROAST. 

much  nut  butter  as  beans;  then  add  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sage, 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  celery  salt,  I  onion  grated  fine,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls of  salt,  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  pecan  meal,  2  heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls  of  roasted  almond  meal,  4  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  zwieola  and  4  of  gluten,  and  6  hard-boiled  eggs 


NUTMEATO.  1  I  7 

which  have  been  pressed  through  a  sieve.      Mix  all  together 
thoroughly;  and  if  there  is  not  enough  water  to  mix  well,  add 
cold  water,  being  careful  that  you  do  not  get  it  too  moist. 
Have  ready  a  bag  made  of  thick  muslin  cut  and  sewed  so  it 
will  be  round  on  the  bottom  end  of  the  bag,  and  round  out 
through  the  middle,  so  that  the  roast,  after  being  cooked  in  it, 
will  be  the  shape  of  a  nice  ham.      Pour  boiling  water  over  the 
bag  and  wring  out;  then  fill  with  the  mixture;  tie  with  stout 
twine,  leaving  only  a  little   room   for  swelling,  as  the  more 
room  that  is  left  for  swelling,  the  less  firm  the  roast  will  be, 
and  it  wants  to  be  firm  enough  to  slice  well.      Then  place  it 
in  the  top  of  a  steam-cooker,  or  it  can  be  laid  in  an  ordinary 
steamer,  and  cook  for  three  hours.      Then  remove  from  the 
steamer,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  or  the  shears,  rip  down  one 
side  of  the  roast,  pull  back  the  bag,  and  let  the  roast  roll  out 
on   an  oiled  tin  or  dripping-pan;    then  with  some  peanut  oil 
and  a  piece  of  clean  muslin,  brush  the  roast  over  the  top  with 
the  oil  and  set  in  the  oven  until  it   has  a  beautiful   brown 
crust.     Then  carefully  remove   to  a  platter  and  garnish   as 
desired.      In  the  accompanying  cut  it  is  garnished  with  vege- 
tables which  can  be   prepared  the  day  before.      The  round 
balls  at  the  ends  are  made  of  potatoes  and  beets,  the  beets 
being  at  one  end   and  the  potatoes  at  the  other  end  of  the 
roast.      Next   to   them   are   cups  cut   out  of  cooked  turnips. 
They  are  filled  with  canned  peas,  and  the  central  garnish  is 
made  from  cooked  carrots  cut  into  cylindrical  shapes  of  even 
lengths.      The  ornamental  skewer  or  hatclet  in  the  center  of 
the   roast  is    made    by  running  a  knitting-needle    through  a 
beet   ball,   then   through  a  slice  of  turnip  which  has  had  a 
square  piece  cut  out  from  the  center,  and  four  half  square 
pieces   around   that,    with    pieces    of   beet    inserted    in    their 
places,  then  a  potato  ball,  and  lastly  a  small  piece  of  maca- 
roni in  which  are  2  leaves  of  parsley. 


Il8  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    <<>(>KKRY. 

The  skewer  must  not  be  made  until  just  before  serving, 
but  the  other  garnish  may  be  fixed  the  day  before  and  then 
placed  in  the  steamer  in  time  to  get  warm  before  arranging 
on  the  platter;  a  part  of  the  garnish  may  be  served  with  a 
slice  of  the  roast  if  desired,  or  it  can  be  left  undisturbed.  A 
gravy  should  accompany  the  roast  to  the  table;  it  may  be 
made  in  the  following  manner :  2  tablespoonfuls  of  filbert 
meal,  I  of  peanut  butter,  i  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  salt  to 
taste,  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  white  flour.  Mix  all 
well  together  with  \  cup  of  water,  and  stir  into  3  cups  of 
boiling  water.  Cook  for  three  minutes,  pour  into  a  gravy-boat, 
and  place  on  one  side  of  the  carver's  plate.  This  will  make 
;i  good-sized  roast,  sufficient  for  twelve  people. 

MOCK  SALMON. 

Take  2  cups  of  nut  butter,  i  cup  of  tomato  juice  without 
the  pulp,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  cup  of  water,  i  tablespoonful 
of  corn-starch.  Mix  thoroughly  ;  cook  in  cans. 

DEVILED  NUTS  NO.  J. 

Take  i  cup  peanut  meal,  i  cup  bread-crumbs,  i  cup  nut 
cream,  '  teaspoonful  grated  onion,  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  i 
tablespoonful  chopped  parsley,  salt  to  taste.  Mix  the  meal 
and  bread-crumbs,  add  the  eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites  pressed 
through  a  sieve,  also  the  parsley  and  salt,  and  lastly  the  nut 
cream  ;  place  in  the  oven  and  brown. 

DEVILED  NUTS  NO.  2. 

Yolks  of  6  eggs  boiled  hard  and  sifted  through  a  sieve,  i\ 
cups  of  walnut  meal,  I  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion,  I  raw 
egg  yolk,  and  a  little  nut  cream  and  salt,  3  cups  of  dry  bread- 
crumbs. 


NUTMEATO.  I  I  9 

RED  BEAN  ROAST. 

Take  i  can  or  2  cups  of  red  kidney  bean  pulp,  A  cup  of 
liquid  (milk  or  water),  i  cup  of  rolled  English  walnuts,  or  | 
cup  of  black  walnuts,  i  teaspoonful  of  sage,  I  of  salt.  Mix 
together  thoroughly,  and  bake. 

CRYSTAL  WHEAT  ROAST. 

Take  I  cup  of  crystal  wheat,  I  cup  of  boiling  water  ;  steam 
fifteen  minutes  ;  then  stir  into  it  i  cup  of  nut  butter  after  moist- 
ening it  with  enough  water  to  make  it  creamy  ;  salt,  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes,  or  steam  twenty  minutes. 
Then  cool,  and  turn  out  of  the  pan,  basting  it  with  nut  but- 
ter, and  brown  it  in  the  oven. 

A  sauce  to  be  served  with  it  is  made  of  i  pint  of  strained 
tomatoes,  -J  tablespoonful  of  nut  butter,  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
and  a  little  salt. 

Sift  the  hard-boiled  yolks  in  with  the  bread-crumbs  and 
nut  meal,  add  salt  and  onion,  then  the  raw  yolk  of  an  egg, 
and  enough  nut  cream  to  make  it  somewhat  mushy. 

ESCALLOPED  MOCK  SALMON. 

Steam  i  cup  of  browned  rice  twenty  minutes.  Place  in  a 
baking  pan  a  layer  of  the  mock  salmon  cut  in  small  pieces, 
then  a  layer  of  the  browned  rice,  and  so  on,  until  the  pan  is 
filled.  Cover  the  top  with  a  generous  sprinkling  of  pine-nut 
meal,  after  pouring  in  a  little  boiling  water  to  moisten  it. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

BREAD  DRESSING. 

Cut  stale  bread  into  inch  cubes.  Emulsify  enough  nut 
butter  to  make  the  dressing  as  rich  as  you  desire  ;  add  to  it 
enough  water  to  moisten  the  bread  well.  Put  into  this  the 


I2O  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

sage  and  salt  to  make  desirable  seasoning,  and  pour  over  the 
bread.      Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  until  well  done  and  brown. 

SAVORY  LENTILS, 

Soak  a  portion  of  lentils  overnight,  skirn  them  from  .this 
water,  and  put  in  cold  water,  raising  gradually  to  boiling-point. 
\V hen  thoroughly  tender,  pass  them  through  a  reasonably  fine 
colander.  To  one  part  of  this  add  an  equal  measure  of  fine, 
toasted  bread-crumbs,  also  salt  and  sage,  onion  or  some  other 
herb  as  taste  may  dictate.  Moisten  the  whole  with  a  quan- 
tity of  very  thin  emulsified  butter.  When  all  are  combined, 
the  consistency  should  be  such  that  if  left  to  stand  a  few  min- 
utes, it  will  become  even  over  the  top.  Bake  until  quite  firm 
and  brown. 

A  NUT  CHEESE  NEST. 

Take  i  ^  cups  of  raw  peanut  butter,  i  cup  of  corn-meal 
(white),  3.^  cups  of  water,  and  i  cup  of  lemon-juice.  Mix 
all  the  ingredients  thoroughly  and  cook  the  same  as  nutmeato. 
When  thoroughly  cold,  crumble  into  very  fine  pieces  and  heap 
upon  a  large,  round  plate.  Make  a  cavity  in  the  top  of  the 
mock  cottage  cheese,  and  place  in  it  the  yolks  of  4  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  Around  the  edge  of  the  cheese,  put  a  row  of 
parsley  as  shown  in  the  accompanying  cut,  or  some  may  pre- 
fer watercress. 

MOCK  CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

Take  i^  pounds  or  i.\  pints  of  nutmeato  chopped  quite 
fine  ;  add  nearly  as  much  mashed  potato,  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
zwieola  which  has  been  soaked  for  fifteen  minutes  in  i  cup 
of  warm  water,  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  gluten,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  sage,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  onion  grated,  salt  to  suit  the 


MSKITU 


TOMT1    'aOJ-*^ 


w 
c/0 

w 
w 

£ 
u 

h 

D 


NUTMEATO. 


123 


taste,  4  hard-boiled  eggs  put  through  a  sieve,  and  I  raw 
egg.  Mix  the  sifted  eggs  with  the  zwieola,  and  work  till 
smooth;  then  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  mix  all  very 
thoroughly.  Take  a  large  tablespoonful,  and  work  in  the 
hands  quickly,  handling  with  care,  and  form  into  cylinder- 
shaped  croquettes,  making  the  ends  as  square  across  as  pos- 


MOCK  CHICKEN  CR<><M.:I.;-]  IKS 

sible  ;  then  roll  them  in  a  beaten  egg  and  then  in  gluten,  or 
what  is  better,  fine  cracker-crumbs  ;  crisps  or  rolls  that  are 
perfectly  dry  and  ground  fine  are  also  nice,  and  give  them 
more  of  a  meaty  flavor.  Bake  on  well-oiled  tins  for  an  hour 
or  more.  The  above  amount  will  make  twenty  good-sized 
croquettes.  In  serving,  they  can  be  arranged  as  in  the 
accompanying  cut,  which  represents  them  garnished  with 
sprigs  of  parsley,  or  if  a  smaller  quantity  is  desired,  they  may 


124  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

be  made  into  funnel  shapes  by  molding  in  an  ice-cream  mold 
or  a  small  funnel  with  the  hole  stopped  up  with  a  piece  of 
raw  turnip  or  potato.  Then  when  baked,  they  are  nice 
served  on  a  plate  covered  with  curly  lettuce  leaves  ;  serve  a 
lettuce  leaf  with  each  croquette,  placing  the  croquette  upon 
the  leaf. 

MOCK   FRIED   OYSTERS. 

Scrape  some  parsnips  and  cut  slantwise  to  get  the  oval- 
shaped  slice.  Let  them  stand  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour. 
Then  put  into  a  saucepan,  putting  on  plenty  of  cold  water, 
and  let  it  get  boiling  hot,  and  drain.  Cover  them  with  boil- 
ing water,  and  add  i  teaspoortful  of  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
nut  meal,  cook  until  tender,  and  drain.  When  cold,  dip  the 
slices  into  a  mixture  of  egg  and  nut  cream  whipped  together, 
and  then  in  roasted  pine-nut  butter,  rubbed  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  corn-meal.  Place  on  oiled  tins  and  bake  in  a 
quirk  oven. 

EGG  BUTTER. 

Take  I  pint  of  raw  nut  milk,  and  cook  it  for  three  hours 
in  a  double  boiler,,  stirring  it  quite  often  to  keep  it  from  get- 
ting lumpy.  Then  to  i  cup  of  the  cooked  milk  to  which  has 
been  added  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  add  i  level  tablespoonful  of 
white  flour,  which  has  been  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold 
water,  and  let  it  cook  in  the  double  boiler  for  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes,  that  the  flour  may  be  well  cooked  ;  then  add 
the  well-beaten  yolk  of  i  egg,  and  if  desired,  a  little  thick, 
raw  peanut  cream  may  also  be  added  to  give  it  more  rich- 
ness. Do  not  cook  but  a  minute  after  the  egg  and  cream  are 
added,  and  stir  it  constantly  or  the  egg  will  curdle.  Pour 
while  hot  into  a  mold  (a  wooden  butter-mold  will  do  if  it  is 
tight).  Wet  the  mold  with  cold  water,  and  set  in  a  cool 
place  until  perfectly  cold  clear  through  ;  then  turn  it  upon  the 


NUTMEATO.  125 

butter-dish,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  Some  prefer  it  rather 
than  the  diluted  nut  butter.  It  very  much  resembles  butter, 
and  slices  and  spreads  easily.  Try  it. 

CUTLETS  OF  POTATO. 

Take  a  can  of  nutmeato, —  one  that  is  about  four  inches  in 
diameter  makes  the  best  size  ;  slice  it  crosswise  into  slices 
about  half  an  inch  thick.  Cut  the  slices  into  halves,  and  then 


CUTLETS  ON  POTATOES. 

with  a  sharp  knife  trim  them  to  the  shape  of  a  meat  cutlet. 
Macaroni  is  used  in  this  instance  for  the  rib  bones,  pressing 
it  into  the  nutmeato.  Dip  first  in  a  batter  of  egg,  water,  and 
flour,  and  then  lay  it  in  a  platter  of  meal,  made  by  rubbing 
together  pine-nut  butter  and  corn-meal,  half  and  half,  turning 
it  until  enough  adheres  to  coat  it  over  thoroughly.  Place  on 


126  GUIDE    FOR    X UT    COOKERY. 

.1  baking  pan  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Have  ready  some 
nicely  boiled  potatoes,  mashed  and  beaten  to  a  foam,  adding 
a  little  salt  and  nut  cream,  if  desired.  Heap  them  upon  the 
center  of  a  large  platter,  leaving  them  in  a  loose  fluffy  way. 
Then  take  the  cutlets  from  the  oven  and  set  them  up  around 
the  potatoes,  as  shown  in  the  accompanying  cut.  Serve 
very  hot. 

MOCK  OYSTER    PATTIES. 

Make  a  pastry  dough  by  using  i  cup  of  fine  almond  meal 
or  pine-nut  meal,  i  cup  of  white  flour,  and  enough  cold  water 
to  mix.  Mix  the  meal  and  flour,  pour  on  the  water  a  little  at 
a  time,  and  stir  into  crumbs,  removing  them  to  the  board  as 
fast  as  they  form,  and  then  press  together  and  roll  out  half  an 
inch  thick.  Cut  out  the  patties  with  a  scalloped  cooky-cutter, 
and  with  a  small  round  cutter  placed  in  the  center  of  the 
patty,  cut  half-way  through  the  dough.  Place  on  oiled  tins, 
and  bake  in  the  oven  the  same  as  biscuits.  \Yhen  taken 
from  the  oven,  remove  the  crust  on  the  central  part  of  the 
patty  with  a  fork,  saving  it  as  a  cover.  Then  with  a  fork 
remove  all  the  inside,  leaving  only  a  good  thick  crust. 

Have  ready  some  vegetable  oysters  which  have  been  well 
prepared  and  sliced  slantwise,  so  as  to  give  them  more  of  an 
oyster  shape.  To  4  medium-sized  oysters  cut  in  this  way,  add 
i  heaping  tablespoonful  of  rolled  oats,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
enough  water  to  cover  them.  Put  into  a  basin,  and  cook  in 
a  steamer  for  two  hours.  The  oatmeal  will  give  them  the 
slimy  appearance  of  real  oysters.  When  done,  take  out  the 
nicest  looking  oysters  on  a  plate,  and  put  the  rest  through  a 
wire  sieve  for  the  gravy.  Partly  fill  the  patties  with  the 
j^ravy,  and  then  finish  filling  with  the  oysters.  The  gravy 
may  be  seasoned  with  roasted  almond  or  pine-nut  butter  ; 
then  place  the  piece  of  round  crust  that  was  taken  off,  back 


NUTMEATO.  12; 

on  for  a  lid,  and  serve  hot.     The  crumbs  taken  from  the  inside 
may  be  used  to  thicken  the  soup  or  gravy  if  it  is  too  thin. 

GREEN  PEA  PATTIES. 

Take  green  peas,  or  canned  peas  will  do.  Make  the 
patties  the  same  as  for  oyster  patties.  After  removing  the 
inside  of  the  patties,  fill  with  the  peas  about  two-thirds  full, 
and  pour  over  them  the  juice  of  the  peas  thickened  with  the 
crumbs  ;  put  on  the  lid,  and  serve  hot. 

NUTMEATO  PATTIES. 

Make  a  puff-paste  and  cut  into  patties  as  directed  for 
mock  oyster  patties.  Cut  some  nutmeato  into  small  cubes, 
cover  with  water,  and  cook  for  two  hours  in  a  double  boiler  ; 
then  thicken  the  juice  with  a  little  white  flour,  add  the  nut- 
meato and  fill  the  patties  ;  put  on  the  lid,  heat  in  the  oven, 
and  serve  hot  in  individual  dishes. 

MOCK  CHIP  BEEF. 

Take  plain  nutmeato,  slice  it  (or  chip  it)  quite  thin,  let  it 
stand  overnight  in  an  open  dish  covered  with  a  cheese-cloth 
to  keep  off  the  dust.  The  outside  will  become  somewhat  dry 
and  oily.  In  the  morning  broil  on  toasters  or  a  toasting  fork. 
Place  in  a  dish  of  hot  water,  and  gently  simmer  for  half  an 
hour ;  then  drain  off  the  water,  turn  the  nutmeato  upon  a  hot 
platter,  return  the  water  to  the  stove,  and  thicken  with  a 
little  white  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water  ;  add 
salt  to  suit  the  taste,  and  pour  over  the  meat.  This  may  be 
served  as  chip  beef,  or  it  may  be  placed  upon  toast. 


FOR  NEW  RECIPES. 


128  J 


FOR  NEW  RECIPES. 


I    120 


FOR  NEW   RECIPES 


FOR  NEW  RECIPES. 


FOR  NEW  RECIPES. 


1  132  ] 


FOR  NEW  RECIPES. 


[133] 


MALT  EXTRACT. 


MALT  is  any  grain  artificially  germinated,  so  as  to  induce 
certain  changes  in  the  construction  of  the  seed.  Barley 
is  the  variety  of  grain  usually  employed  for  making  malt. 
The  barley  is  first  screened,  and  then  poured  into  a  large  vat  ; 
after  which  it  is  covered  with  six  inches  of  water,  the  blasted 
kernels  and  foreign  substance  being  skimmed  off.  It  is  left 
in  this  water  from  forty  to  fifty  hours,  taking  less  time  in  sum- 
mer than  in  winter.  The  barley  is  then  taken  from  the  vat 
and  thickly  spread  upon  a  floor  where  it  is  left  to  continue 
sprouting  until  it  reaches  a  certain  point,  where  the  maltser 
knows  from  experience  that  the  starch  of  the  grain  has  been 
changed  to  soluble  sugar  and  dextrin.  These  changes  are 
effected  by  a  peculiar  nitrogenous  ferment  called  "diastase," 
which  exists  in  the  grain,  but  is  increased  in  amount  during 
the  sprouting  process.  The  barley  is  then  kiln-dried  and 
ground  to  a  flour.  Diastase  is  obtained  by  making  a  paste 
of  the  malted  grain  and  water,  and  kept  at  a  temperature  of 
76"  for  a  few  minutes,  when  the  water  is  then  pressed  out, 
filtered,  and  placed  in  a  warm  bath  at  170  .  At  this  tem- 
perature the  foreign  nitrogenous  matter  coagulates,  which  is 
afterward  separated  by  filtration.  The  filtered  liquid  is 
quite  pure  diastase,  and  is  evaporated  at  a  low  temperature, 
until  it  is  dry.  Diastase  is  not  only  soluble  itself,  but  it  has 
the  power  of  dissolving  starch,  and  is  converted  into  soluble 
gum,  to  which  is  given  the  name  "dextrin,"  and  finally  into 
grape-sugar,  so  called  because,  on  analysis,  it  closely  resem- 
bles the  sugar  which  naturally  exists  in  the  grape. 
t'34] 


MALT    EXTRACT.  I  3  5 

Diastase  is  so  powerful  that  i  part  of  it  will  convert  2,000 
parts  of  starch  to  grape-sugar.  For  this  reason  it  is  exten- 
sively used  in  the  preparation  of  farinaceous  foods  for  infants, 
and  in  the  form  of  ma]X  extract  it  possesses  considerable  repji-^ 
tation  in  pharmacy,  being  recommended  by  physicians  for 
patients  who  have  lost  the  power  of  digesting  starch,  as  the 
digestion  of  starch  changes  it  to  sugar  or  dextrin,  and  the 
malt  extract  produces  the  same  result.  Malt  extract  is  very 
sweet,  and  has  the  consistency  of  honey  ;  it  blends  nicely 
with  nuts,  and  may  also  be  eaten  on  grains  and  bread.  It  is 
one  of  the  greatest  fat-producing  food  elements  made,  and  is 
especially  recommended  to  persons  who  find  themselves  los- 
ing in  flesh  from  any  cause,  and  is  equally  well  adapted  to 
persons  of  all  ages.  It  is,  however,  a  very  concentrated 
food,  and  care  should  be  taken  not  to  eat  of  it  too  freely. 

MALTED  BUTTER. 

Take  2  cups  of  butter,  I  cup  of  malt,  and  mix  thoroughly. 
When  desired  to  be  used  on  bread,  mix  in  water  till  of  the 
consistency  to  spread.  A  little  salt  may  be  added  to  suit 
taste. 

MALTED  NUT  CARAMELS  NO.   I. 

Take  2  cups  of  nut  butter,  I  cup  of  malt  extract,  '  cup  of 
No.  3  gluten.  A  little  salt  may  be  added  if  desired.  Thor- 
oughly mix  ingredients,  and  mold  into  squares  or  any  desired 
shape.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours.  This  preparation 
will  keep  well  if  each  piece  is  wrapped  in  oiled  paper. 
Where  the  gluten  can  not  be  easily  procured,  browned  flour 
may  be  substituted.  The  caramels,  if  dissolved  in  hot  water, 
make  a  palatable  and  nutritious  drink,  and  many  prefer  to 
take  them  in  this  way. 


136  tiUlDli    1-Xm    NUT    COUKEKV. 

MALTED  NUT  CARAMELS   NO.   2. 

Take  3  cups  of  peanut  meal,  or  2  cups  of  butter,  I  .\  cups 
of  malt  extract,  ?>  cup  of  almond  meal,  and  \  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  mold.  The  following  in  weight 
will  produce  the  same  as  the  above:  17  ounces  of  peanut 
mral,  19  ounces  of  malt  extract,  3  ounces  of  almond  meal, 
i  ounce  of  salt. 

D 

MALTED  NUT  CARAMELS  NO.  3. 

Take  2  cups  of  pecan  meal,  i  scant  cup  of  malt  extract, 
and  \  cup  of  No.  3  gluten  meal.  Mix  well  together,  and 
press  into  a  square  tin.  After  it  has  stood  twenty-four  hours, 
it  can  be  cut  into  squares,  and  wrapped  in  tissue  paper  if 
desired. 

MALTED  NUT  CARAMELS  NO.  4. 

Take  I  cup  of  ground  pine-nuts,  a  little  salt,  )2  cup  of  malt 
extract,  and  ?2  cup  of  No.  3  gluten.  (See  index  for  directions.  ) 
Mix  all  together  but  do  not  work  more  than  is  necessary, 
or  the  oil  will  start.  Press  it  into  square  tins,  and  when  it 
has  stood  twenty-four  hours,  cut  into  one-inch  squares.  If 
preferred,  it  can  be  wrapped  in  tissue  paper. 

MALTED  NUT    CARAMELS  NO.   5. 

Take  I  cup  of  filbert  meal,  }2  cup  of  malt,  i  tablespoonful 
of  gluten,  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  all  together  thoroughly  and 
press  in  a  square  tin.  Cut  in  squares  after  it  has  stood  for 
twenty-four  hours,  and  if  it  is  desired,  it  can  be  wrapped  in 
tissue  paper.  This  is  very  good,  and  is  relished  by  those  who 
do  not  like  peanuts. 


MALT  EXTRACT.  137 

MALTED  NUT   CARAMELS  NO.  6. 

Take  3  cups  of  peanut  meal  No.  2,  i  cup  of  malt  extract, 
a  pinch  of  salt  ;  mix  well,  and  mold  in  square  tins.  After 
they  have  stood  for  several  hours,  they  can  be  cut  into  cara- 
mels, and  if  desired,  wrapped  in  oiled  paper. 

NUT  FLAKES. 

Take  any  of  the  malted  caramels,  Nos.  I,  2,  and  6  are 
very  nice.  Roll  them  out  very  thin,  as  thin  as  paper  if 
possible.  A  clean  clothes-wringer  will  roll  them  thinner  than 
they  can  be  rolled  with  a  rolling-pin.  Then  place  in  a  warm 
oven  and  dry,  being  careful  not  to  scorch  them,  as  the  malt 
scorches  easily. 

MALTED  PEANUTS. 

Take  i.^  cups  of  peanut  meal,  )2  cup  of  malt  extract,  a 
small  pinch  of  salt;  rub  all  together,  and  dry  in  the  oven  or 
where  it  is  warm,  being  careful  not  to  scorch  it.  The  malt 
scorches  very  easily.  When  perfectly  dry,  grind  through  the 
mill  to  a  meal,  and  it  is  ready  to  eat.  When  mixed  with 
malt  the  peanut  dries  more  easily  than  any  other  nut. 

MALTED  ALMONDS. 

Take  i  J,  cups  of  almond  meal  and  ^  cup  of  malt;  rub 
together  thoroughly,  and  dry  on  tins  in  a  warm  oven  or  sus- 
pended over  the  stove.  When  very  dry,  grind  to  a  meal. 

MALTED  BRAZIL-NUTS. 

The  Brazil-nuts  may  be  blanched  first  by  heating  in  the 
oven,  when  the  skins  will  rub  off.  Then  grind  them  to  a 
meal.  To  i.\  cups  of  the  meal  add  .>  cup  of  malt  extract; 
mix  well  and  dry.  When  thoroughly  dried,  grind  to  a  meal. 


(,11I>E    1-OK    MT  .COOKERY. 


MALTED   PINE-NUTS. 

Take  i\  cups  of  pine-nut  meal,  \  cup  of  malt  extract,  and 
mix  together  very  thoroughly.  Put  in  a  warm  place,  and  let 
it  get  perfectly  dry.  It  will  take  longer  to  dry  than  it  does 
the  peanut.  Then  grind  through  the  mill  to  a  meal. 

MALTED   FILBERTS. 

Blanch  the  filberts  by  heating  in  the  oven,  and  rubbing  off 
the  skin;  then  grind  to  a  meal.  To  i  A  cups  of  the  meal  add 
.',  cup  of  malt  extract;  mix  well,  let  it  dry  in  a  warm  place, 
and  when  well  dried,  grind  to  a  meal. 

MALTED   WALNUTS. 

Take  walnut  meal  that  has  been  made  from  the  blanched 
walnuts,  using  i },  cups  of  the  meal  to  \  cup  of  malt  extract; 
a  very  little  salt  improves  the  taste.  Mix  well,  and  dry  in 
tins  in  a  warm  oven.  When  perfectly  dry,  grind  to  a  meal. 

The  pecan,  hickory,  and  butternut  may  be  malted  in  the 
same  way. 

MALTED  CREAM. 

Take  I  cup  of  cocoanut  (-ream  and  i  cup  of  malt  extract; 
mix  very  thoroughly,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve.  It  is  excellent 
to  eat  on  bread,  granose,  or  grains,  and  also  serves  as  a  sauce 
for  puddings. 

Raw  peanut  cream  or  the  cream  of  any  nuts  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  the  cocoanut  if  desired.  The  nut  butter  diluted 
to  the  consistency  of  cream  and  mixed  with  equal  quantity  of 
malt  also  makes  a  very  nice  dressing 


MALT    EXTRACT.  139 


MALTED   NUT  OIL. 

Take  i  cup  of  pure  malt  extract  and  thoroughly  mix  with 
it  i  tablespoonful  of  peanut  oil  or  the  oil  of  any  nuts  desired. 
Warm  the  oil  and  malt  on  the  stove  and  work  well,  until 
thoroughly  blended;  or  eighty  per  cent,  malt,  twenty  per 
cent,  nut  oil,  and  a  little  sugar  of  milk  may  be  added  to  give 
a  pleasant  grainy  flavor. 

MALT  FOOD. 

Take  equal  parts  of  malt  extract  and  water,  mix  well,  and 
let  boil;  stir  in  a  little  gluten  to  thicken. 

MALT  GEMS. 

Take  2  cups  of  water,  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  nut  but- 
ter, i  tablespoonful  of  malt  extract,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  }2 
cup  of  corn-meal,  2  cups  of  white  flour,  \  cup  of  graham 
flour,  and  a  little  salt.  Have  the  water  very  cold,  and  dis- 
solve the  butter  with  the  water,  adding  a  little  at  a  time; 
then  add  the  malt.  Beat  in  the  flour  until  it  is  smooth,  and 
lastly  add  the  eggs,  which  should  be  very  well  beaten.  Bake 
in  hot  gem  irons  for  nearly  an  hour,  the  oven  being  quite  hot. 

MALTED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Bake  the  sweet  potatoes  as  usual;  then  peel  and  cut  into 
slices  or  into  any  shapes  desired,  and  dip  into  a  solution  of 
\  cup  malt,  i  teaspoonful  nut  butter,  and  salt  to  taste;  mix 
well,  and  when  the  pieces  of  potato  are  dipped  into  it,  place 
them  on  oiled  tins,  and  bake  in  the  oven.  When  nicely 
browned,  serve  hot. 


140  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

MALTED   BAKED   APPLE. 

Select  good  tart  apples,  remove  the  cores  with  a  new 
clothes-pin,  and  then  rill  the  cavities  with  a  filling  made  by 
diluting  nut  butter  with  sassafras  tea  sweetened  with  malt. 
Rake  in  a  moderate  mm,  until  done,  being  careful  not  to 
overbake  them. 

SWEET  POTATO  PONE. 

Peel  and  grate  sweet  potatoes  enough  to  make  a  quart, 
grating  as  quickly  as  possible  that  they  may  not  become  dis- 
colored. Add  to  them  i  \  cups  of  nut  cream,  I  tablespoonful 
of  malt,  the  juice  and  a  little  of  the  grated  rind  of  I  orange, 
and  a  little  salt.  Mix  well,  and  pour  into  a  pudding  dish. 
F>ake  for  one  hour,  or  until  the  potato  is  done  and  it  is  nicely 
browned  on  top. 


FOR  NEW  RECIPES. 


141 


FOR  NEW   RECIPES. 


I  '42 


GRAINS. 


/DRAINS  are  the  most  nutritious  of  all  foods,  and  if  properly 
vJ  cooked  and  masticated,  they  are  easily  digested.  The 
grains  are  all  similar  in  composition,  varying  in  the  relative 
amounts  of  the  various  elements,  such  as  gluten,  albumen, 
casein,  and  fibrin.  They  also  contain  a  certain  amount  of 
starch,  which  is  converted  into  dextrin,  or  sugar,  fatty  mat- 
ters, and  also  mineral  matter  and  cellulose.  The  total  nutri- 
tive value  of  the  grain  foods  is  nearly  three  times  that  of 
meat.  Grains  approach  more  closely  than  other  foods  the 
proper  standard  of  proportion  of  the  food  elements.  We  are 
told  that  the  system  requires  six  parts  of  carbonaceous  to  one 
part  of  nitrogenous  material.  Wheat  contains  exactly  the  cor- 
rect proportion  of  the  food  elements.  Bread  made  from  the 
ground  whole-wheat  kernel  is  rightly  called  ' '  the  staff  of  life  ;  " 
for  one  could  live  upon  it  without  other  foods,  for  an  indefi- 
nite length  of  time,  without  injury  to  the  body,  as  it  contains 
all  the  elements  needed  in  the  body  and  that,  too,  in  the 
right  proportion. 

But  even  these  most  nutritious  of  foods  can  be  cooked 
and  eaten  in  such  a  way  as  to  be  wholly  unfit  for  the 
stomach. 

The  following  are  some  of  the  errors  made  in  cooking  and 
eating  grains  :- 

First.  Not  cooking  them  long  enough.  Many  people 
think  grains  can  be  cooked  in  twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  This 
is  a  fatal  mistake,  and  one  that  has  ruined  many  a  stomach. 
Grains  consist  largely  of  starch  in  the  form  of  little  cells  ; 
each  cell  is  enclosed  in  a  tough,  fibrous  coat,  which  the  saliva 

I   '43  J 


144  r.UIOK    FOR    XUT    COOKERY. 

or  the  gastric  juice  does  not  affect.  By  prolonged  cooking, 
the  starch  in  the  cells  expands  and  bursts  the  cells  ;  then  it 
can  be  acted  upon  by  the  saliva,  which  changes  it  to  dextrin, 
or  sugar.  The  gastric  juice  digests  only  the  nitrogenous 
material,  so  when  the  starch  is __npt  digested  by  the  saliva,  it 
is  apt  to  ferment  in  the  stomach. 

Second.  Not  masticating  them  thoroughly.  1'.. 'cause  the 
grains  are  softened  by  cooking  and  do  not  need  to  be  masti- 
cated in  order  to  render  them  fine,  they  are  often  swallowed 
without  being  thoroughly  mixed  with  the  saliva.  This  is  a 
verv  injurious  habit.  When  we  consider  the  fact  that  masti- 
cation is  the  only  step  in  the  whole  process  of  digestion  and 
assimilation  given  by  the  all-wise  Creator  to  man  to  perform, 
it  seems  that  it  ought  to  be  given  more  time  than  many  give 
to  it  in  this  age  of  hurry. 

Third.  Grains  are  often  put  in  bad  company.  The  cus- 
tom of  eating  sugar  and  cream  or  milk  on  grains  is  a  very 
injurious  one,  for  the  sugar  combined  with  milk  very  readily 
ferments  and  causes  a  sour  stomach.  Either  milk  or  sugar 
would  not  be  so  bad  alone,  but  a  dressing  of  nut  cream,  fruit- 
juice,  or  some  sauces  such  as  fig  sauce,  would  be  much  more 
wholesome. 

RECIPES    FOR    THE    COOKING    OF    GRAINS. 

CRACKED    WHEAT. 

Put  I  quart  of  water  in  the  inner  cup  of  a  double  boiler. 
When  hot,  stir  into  it  i  cup  of  cracked  wheat,  adding  a  little 
salt  if  desired.  Let  it  cook  rapidly  until  the  kernels  cease  to 
settle  when  lifted  from  the  stove  ;  then  place  in  the  outer 
boiler,  in  which  the  water  should  be  boiling.  Cook  four  or 
five  hours  or  longer.  Serve  hot  with  nut  cream  or  any  fruit 
sauce  desired. 


GRAINS.  145 

CRACKED  WHEAT  AND  NUTS. 

When  i  quart  of  cracked  wheat  is  nearly  done  and  a  little 
moist  (add  water  if  too  dry),  sprinkle  i  cup  of  chopped  nuts 
over  it,  and  close  the  kettle  carefully,  and  let  it  steam  for 
twenty  or  thirty  minutes. 

Mix  the  chopped  nuts  with  the  wheat  as  you  pour  it  out 
into  the  dish.  Pecans  or  walnuts  are  particularly  good  in 
this  dish. 

ROLLED    WHEAT. 

Have  boiling  3  cups  of  water  in  the  inner  part  of  the 
double  boiler.  Salt  to  taste,  and  stir  in  i  cup  of  rolled 
wheat.  \Yhen  thickened,  place  in  the  outer  boiler,  in  which 
the  water  should  be  boiling,  and  cook  three  hours.  The 
addition  of  raisins  is  very  good.  The  raisins  should  be  well 
steamed,  and  added  just  before  serving.  Stewed  apples  or 
other  fruits,  either  fresh  or  stewed,  may  be  added  in  the 
same  way. 

GRAHAM  MUSH. 

Heat  i  quart  of  water  in  the  inner  cup  of  a  double  boiler. 
When  boiling,  stir  in  2  cups  of  graham  flour  which  has  been 
moistened  with  i  pint  of  warm  water,  stirring  in  slowly. 
When  thickened,  put  in  the  outer  boiler,  and  cook  one  hour. 
The  above  may  be  varied  by  adding  stoned  dates  just  before 
serving,  or  steamed  raisins  or  figs  chopped  in  small  pieces  ; 
or  fruit  may  be  added,  such  as  baked  sour  apples  with  the 
skins  and  core  removed,  peaches,  huckleberries,  etc. 

GRAHAM  GRITS. 

This  is  a  product  of  the  wheat  kernel,  in  which  the  germ 
of  the  wheat  and  the  outer  layer  of  the  wheat  kernel  are 
ground  into  a  granular  form.  As  this  preparation  takes  the 

10 


146  GUI  UK    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

most   nutritious  part  of  the  wheat  kernel,    it   is  an  excellent 
food,    having  the   elements  in  good   proportion. 

TO  COOK  GRAHAM  GRITS. 

Heat  ^.\  cups  of  water  in  the  inner  part  of  the  double 
boiler.  When  boiling,  salt  to  taste,  and  stir  in  slowly  i  cup 
of  graham  or  wheaten  grits.  Let  boil  for  a  few  minutes  until 
thickened,  and  place  in  the  outer  boiler,  partly  filled  with 
boiling  water.  Cook  for  three  hours  or  longer.  It  does  not 
hurt  it  to  cook  all  night. 

FARINA. 

Heat  i  quart  of  nut  milk,  or  water  if  preferred,  in  the 
inner  cup  of  the  double  boiler.  When  boiling,  stir  in  5  table- 
spoonfuls  of  farina,  moistened  with  a  little  cold  water.  Let 
it  boil  until  it  thickens,  then  place  in  the  outer  boiler,  and 
cook  for  one  hour.  If  cooked  in  water,  it  should  be  served 
with  nut  cream  or  something  which  contains  nitrogenous  ma- 
terial as  the  farina  is  made  from  the  central  part  of  the  wheat 
kernel,  and  consists  principally  of  starch. 

OATS. 

In  nutritive  value,  the  oat  ranks  next  to  wheat.  It  is 
rich  in  fats  as  well  as  bone-  and  muscle-making  material.  It 
is  therefore  an  excellent  article  for  food  if  properly  prepared  ; 
but,  like  other  grains,  it  has  too  often  been  served  in  an  under- 
done state.  It  is  somewhat  harder  of  digestion  than  wheat, 
but  is  considered  by  some  as  excellent  for  some  forms  of 

dyspepsia. 

OATMEAL  MUSH. 

Pour  into  the  inner  part  of  the  double  boiler  I  quart  of 
water.  When  hot,  stir  into  it  i  cup  of  rolled  oats,  and  let  it 
boil  rapidly  until  it  thickens  ;  then  set  in  the  outer  part  of  the 


GRAINS.  147 

double  boiler  ;  the  water  in  it  should  be  boiling.  Cook  three 
hours  or  more.  It  will  not  hurt  them  to  cook  all  night,  and 
may  be  cooked  on  a  coal  stove  all  night,  and  be  ready  for 
breakfast.  If  desired,  salt  may  be  added  to  the  water  before 
adding  the  rolled  oats. 

OATMEAL  GRUEL. 

An  excellent  gruel  may  be  made  by  sifting  the  cooked 
rolled  oats  through  a  sieve  and  adding  water  to  make  of  the 
right  consistency.  A  little  salt  and  nut  butter  may  be  added 
if  desired,  or  a  little  dairy  cream  or  milk.  This  gruel  is 
excellent  for  children  and  invalids. 

BARLEY. 

Barley  is  not  so  nutritious  as  wheat,  and  is  more  difficult 
to  digest.  Pearl  barley  is  the  most  common  form  in  which  it 
is  used. 

To  COOK  PEARL  BARLEY.- -Take  i  quart  of  cold  water 
in  the  inner  part  of  a  double  boiler,  salt  to  taste,  and  add 
i  cup  of  pearl  barley.  Place  in  the  outer  boiler,  and  let 
come  to  the  boiling-point  slowly.  Cook  for  four  or  five 
hours,  and  serve  the  same  as  cracked  wheat. 

PEARL  BARLEY  AND  NUTS. 

Soak  i  cup  of  pearl  barley,  and  i  cup  of  blanched  raw 
peanuts  overnight.  In  the  morning  cook  the  barley  in  a 
double  boiler  and  the  peanuts  in  a  kettle.  (See  directions  for 
cooking  peanuts,  i  When  the  peanuts  are  done,  and  have 
only  a  little  water,  pour  them  in  with  the  barley,  carefully 
fold  them  in,  and  let  them  continue  to  cook  for  an  hour 
or  more. 


148  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

RICE. 

Rice  is  a  grain  very  easy  of  digestion.  It  is  very  rich  in 
starch,  but  lacking  in  the  nitrogenous  elements,  therefore  it 
should  be  eaten  with  some  foods  that  have  an  excess  of  that 
element,  as  nuts,  legumes,  eggs,  or  milk. 

STEAMED  RICE. 

Look  over  and  thoroughly  wash  the  rice.  To  i  cup  of 
rice  add  2  cups  of  water,  and  2  cups  of  nut  milk;  salt  to 
taste.  Place  in  a  steamer,  and  steam  one  hour,  stirring  occa- 
sionally with  a  fork,  lifting  it  up  to  keep  it  from  being  soggy. 
Serve  hot  with  cream  or  any  sauce  desired. 

BROWNED  RICE. 

Put  a  quantity  of  rice  in  the  Family  Peanut  Roaster  14  or 
5  pounds  can  be  roasted  at  a  time  if  desired),  and  place  over 
a  wood-  or  gas-stove.  If  the  latter  is  used,  it  will  take  con- 
stant but  slow  turning  ;  it  is  not  necessary  that  it  should  be 
turned  fast.  Watch  closely.  When  done,  it  should  be  of 
a  yellowish-brown  color.  Use  i  cup  of  rice  to  2  cups  of 
water.  Add  a  little  salt.  Steam  the  same  as  the  above 
recipe.  When  done,  each  kernel  should  be  separate,  dry, 
and  mealy.  It  is  very  palatable  eaten  without  a  dressing, 
but  can  be  eaten  with  nut  cream  or  with  a  fruit  sauce  if 
desired. 

BROWNED  RICE  SOUFFLE. 

Take  i  cup  of  browned  rice,  steam  it  in  3  cups  of  water 
for  twenty-five  minutes.  When  cold,  add  i  cup  of  sifted  to- 
mato pulp.  Beat  4  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  separately, 
add  the  yolks  first,  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  last, 
turn  into  an  oiled  pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.  Serve  immediately. 


GRAINS.  149 

GOLDEN  RICE. 

Take  i  cup  of  rice,  2\  cups  water,  and  \  cup  nut  cream; 
mix  well,  and  steam  for  forty-five  minutes.  Then  add  i  egg, 
which  should  be  well  beaten,  and  steam  just  long  enough  to 
set  the  egg.  Serve  on  a  flaring  platter  or  large  plate  with 
poached  egg  on  top. 

RYE. 

In  nutritive  value,  rye  is  nearly  equal  to  wheat,  but  has  a 
taste  not  relished  by  some. 

ROLLED  RYE. — Put  3  cups  of  water  in  the  inner  cup  of  a 
double  boiler.  When  boiling,  add  salt  to  taste,  and  stir  in 
slowly  i  cup  of  rolled  rye.  Let  it  boil  until  it  thickens,  and 
then  place  in  the  outer  boiler,  and  cook  for  three  hours  or 
more. 

RYE  MUSH. 

Heat  3  cups  of  water  to  boiling  in  the  inner  dish  of  a 
double  boiler,  add  salt  to  taste,  and  stir  into  it  i  cup  of  rye 
graham  flour  moistened  with  i  cup  of  warm  water.  Stir  until 
thickened,  then  place  in  the  outer  boiler,  the  water  in  which 
should  be  boiling.  Cook  for  one  hour  or  more. 

MACARONI. 

This  is  a  wheat  product  ;  the  outer  skin  or  bran  is  rejected, 
but  the  glutinous  part  of  the  wheat  is  saved.  When  properly 
cooked,  it  is  nutritious  and  palatable  ;  it  serves  as  a  basis  for 
a  variety  of  soups  as  well  as  other  dishes. 

To  BOIL  MACARONI. --Take  i  cupful  of  macaroni  which 
has  been  broken  into  pieces  one  inch  in  length.  Drop  them 
into  boiling  hot,  salted  water,  and  cook  until  tender,  which 
will  take  from  thirty  to  forty-five  minutes.  When  tender, 


I  SO  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

drain  off  the  water  in  which  it  was  cooked,  and  serve  with 
almond  cream  and  sugar.  A  little  vanilla  may  be  added  to 
the  cream  if  desired. 

MACARONI  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Cook  the  macaroni  as  in  the  preceding  recipe,  and  cover 
with  the  following  gravy  :  Heat  I  pint  of  nut  milk  to  boiling. 
Salt  to  taste,  and  thirkrn  with  I  level  tablespoonful  of  white 
flour.  Lastly  add  ^  cup  of  strained  tomatoes.  Pour  over 
the  macaroni  and  serve  hot.  Less  nut  milk  and  more  tomato 
may  be  added  if  desired. 

MACARONI  WITH  ZWIEOLA. 

Boil  the  macaroni  in  salted  water  until  tender;  drain,  and 
place  a  layer  of  it  in  a  pudding  dish.  Sprinkle  over  it  a  little 
xwieola,  and  add  another  layer  of  macaroni,  and  so  on, 
having  a  sprinkling  of  zwieola  on  top.  Cover  it  with  nut 
cream  and,  if  desired,  i  egg  may  be  added  to  the  cream. 
Place  in  the  oven,  and  bake. 

MACARONI  WITH  EGG  SAUCE. 

Cook  the  macaroni  as  in  the  recipe  for  boiled  macaroni; 
drain,  and  pour  over  it  the  following  sauce  :  Heat  i  pint  of 
nut  milk  to  boiling.  Take  i  teaspoonful  of  white  flour,  and 
dissolve  in  a  little  cold  water,  add  the  yolk  of  i  egg  and 
a  little  salt.  Beat  well,  and  stir  into  the  nut  milk,  which 
should  be  boiling  gently.  Pour  over  the  macaroni,  mix, 
and  serve  hot. 

MACARONI  WITH  CORN. 

Boil  i  cup  of  macaroni  which  has  been  broken  into  inch 
lengths,  in  boiling,  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain  and 
add  to  it  i  cup  of  corn  cut  from  the  cob  or  i  cup  of  canned 


(.KAixs.  151 

corn,  a  little  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  zwieola,  i  egg  well 
beaten,  and  i  .1  cups  of  nut  milk.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  bake 
in  a  granite  pudding  dish. 

MACARONI   WITH  NUTMEATO. 

Boil  the  macaroni  as  in  the  recipe  for  boiled  macaroni, 
then  drain  and  put  a  layer  of  it  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding 
dish,  then  put  over  it  a  layer  of  nutmeato  which  has  been 
grated  or  put  through  a  sieve  or  vegetable  press,  then  a 
sprinkle  of  minced  parsley  leaves,  then  another  layer  of 
macaroni,  and  so  on,  finishing  with  nutmeato  on  top.  Pour 
over  it  enough  nut  milk  to  moisten  it,  and  bake  in  the  oven. 

CORN. 

Corn  contains  about  three  times  as  much  fatty  matter  as 
the  other  grains.  It  is  not  so  easily  digested  as  wheat,  and 
is  not  a  suitable  diet  for  some  stomachs.  Corn  contains  9.7 
per  cent,  of  albuminous  elements,  69.  5  per  cent,  of  starch, 
3.8  per  cent,  of  free  fats,  and  1.3  per  cent,  of  salts,  making 
a  total  nutritive  value  of  84.3  per  cent.  Corn  should  be 
cooked  a  long  time  in  order  to  make  it  more  digestible. 

CORN  MUSH. 

Mix  thoroughly  together  2  cups  of  corn-meal,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  white  flour,  and  i  pint  of  warm  water.  Turn 
this  mixture  very  slowly  into  i  quart  of  boiling  water,  stirring 
constantly,  and  being  careful  that  it  does  not  cease  boiling. 
Cook  in  a  double  boiler  three  or  four  hours.  The  common 
idea  that  corn-meal  mush  can  be  made  in  a  few  minutes  is 
what  has  ruined  many  a  stomach,  and  made  many  life-long 
dyspeptics. 


15-  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

CORN-MEAL  AND  WALNUTS. 

Into  4  cups  of  boiling  water  stir  i  cup  of  corn-meal;  con- 
tinue stirring  until  it  is  smooth  and  quite  thick.  Then  add  i 
cup  of  walnut  meal,  and  pour  it  into  a  well-oiled  bake-pan, 
and  steam  it  for  six  hours.  Then  place  in  the  oven  a  few 
minutes  to  brown  on  top.  Cut  it  in  slices,  and  serve  with  a 
nut  gravy. 

POP-CORN. 

Pop-corn  is  the  smallest  of  the  maize  family,  and  contains 
more  oil  than  the  other  varieties.  When  oils  are  heated  to  a 
certain  degree  of  temperature,  they  turn  into  gas,  which, 
although  very  light,  occupies  a  great  deal  more  space  than 
the  oil.  As  it  can  not  escape  through  the  hull  of  the  kernel, 
the  pressure  finally  becomes  so  great  that  it  bursts  the  kernel, 
and  the  explosion  also  bursts  the  starch  cells,  and  makes  it 
easy  of  digestion.  For  this  reason,  pop-corn  forms  an  excel- 
lent food.  Ground  pop-corn  is  excellent  eaten  with  nut  milk, 
and  can  be  used  in  making  mushes  and  puddings. 

POP-CORN  POPPED. 

Shell  the  corn  from  the  cob,  and  remove  the  chaff  in  the 
wind  by  pouring  from  one  dish  to  another.  Then  place  in 
Family  Peanut  Roaster,  and  set  over  a  gasoline  burner  or 
gas-stove,  and  turn  the  crank  until  the  corn  is  popped. 

HOMINY  AND  NUTS. 

When  hulled  corn  or  hominy  is  nearly  done,  stir  into  it  i 
cup  of  nut  meal  to  each  quart  of  the  hominy.  The  meal 
made  from  any  nuts  may  be  used,  or  a  mixture  of  several 
kinds  of  nuts. 


GRAINS.  153 

PEANUTS  AND  HOMINY. 

Soak  together  equal  quantities  of  hominy  and  blanched 
peanuts  in  water  overnight.  Put  on  the  stove  early  in  the 
morning  in  the  same  water,  and  when  they  have  boiled  an 
hour  or  two,  or  until  the  water  begins  to  thicken,  put  them 
in  a  double  boiler,  and  let  them  cook  eight  or  nine  hours. 

BROWNED  MUSH. 

Take  mush  that  is  left  from  the  previous  day  and  cut  into 
slices  about  one-half  inch  thick  ;  dip  first  in  a  beaten  egg  to 
which  has  been  added  i  tablespoonful  of  nut  milk,  then  roll 
in  a  mixture  of  corn-meal,  pine-nut  butter,  and  a  little  salt, 
thoroughly  mixed.  Place  on  a  tin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

NUT  HASH. 

Any  cold  cereal,  as  rice,  barley,  hominy,  grits,  etc.,  chopped 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  hazelnut  meal,  and  a  little  water 
added,  cooked  in  the  oven  for  an  hour,  makes  a  good  change. 
Use  Brazil-nuts  with  rice  or  sago,  almonds  with  tapioca  or 
pearl  barley,  pecans  with  hominy  or  grits. 


FOR  NEW  RECIPES. 


'54 


FOR  NEW  RECIPES. 


155 


UNLEAVENED  BREADS. 


TTNLEAVENED  breads  are  those  made  light  without  the 
U  use  of  yeast,  baking-powder,  or  soda.  Since  they  are 
the  most  healthful  of  all  breads,  it  would  be  of  benefit  to 
mankind  if  they  were  in  more  general  use. 

The  principle  in  making  these  breads  is  to  incorporate  as 
much  air  as  possible  into  the  dough,  that  when  it  is  baking 
the  air  may  be  expanded  by  the  heat,  and-  cause  the  bread  to 
be  light  and  porous. 

Bread  which  is  raised  with  baking-powder  or  soda  should 
never  be  eaten,  as  it  is  alkali,  and  destroys  the  effect  of  the 
gastric  juice,  thus  preventing  it  from  doing  its  work  of  digest- 
ing the  food.  Unleavened  breads  are  better  than  breads 
raised  by  yeast  ;  for  they  contain  no  yeast  germs.  The 
strong  stomach  can  destroy  these  germs,  but  in  the  weak 
stomach  there  is  danger  of  their  increasing,  and  causing 
fermentation. 

THE  NUT-BUTTER  MILL  AS  A  KNEADER. 

In  making  the  unfermented  breads,  it  will  be  found  of 
great  advantage  to  run  the  dough  through  the  nut-butter  mill 
twice  or  more,  instead  of  kneading  by  hand  as  directed  in  the 
recipes.  At  first  thought,  it  may  seem  that  it  would  be  a 
more  tedious  process  ;  but  experience  will  demonstrate  that  a 
half-hour  with  the  mill  will  produce  a  much  finer-grained  and 
a  more  tender  bread  than  the  same  time  spent  in  kneading 
by  hand. 

For  this  work,  adjust  the  mill  more  loosely  than  for  grind- 
ing nuts. 


UNLEAVENED  BREADS.  157 

WATER  GEMS. 

Take  i  cup  of  nut  meal,  i  cup  of  ice-cold  water,  and 
whole-wheat  or  graham  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  batter. 
Beat  thoroughly  for  from  five  to  ten  minutes.  Bake  in  hot 
gem  irons  in  a  quick  oven. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

Beat  together  very  thoroughly  i  pint  of  any  kind  of  nut 
milk,  the  yolk  of  i  egg,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Then  add  2\ 
cups  of  graham  flour,  adding  a  little  at  a  time,  and  beating 
in  order  to  incorporate  as  much  air  as  possible  into  the  mix- 
ture. When  light  and  foamy,  fold  in  the  well-beaten  white 
of  the  egg.  Turn  into  gem  irons  which  have  been  heated, 
and  bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven  for  from  forty  to  sixty  min- 
utes. Part  whole-wheat  or  white  flour  may  be  used  instead 
of  all  graham  if  preferred. 

RAW  PEANUT-BUTTER  GEMS, 

Take  \  cup  of  raw  peanut  butter,  i  \  cups  of  cold  water, 
2  entire  eggs,  enough  whole-wheat  flour  to  make  batter  that 
will  just  pour  readily.  Dissolve  the  butter  in  the  water,  and 
place  in  a  round-bottomed  dish.  Add  to  it  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs.  Then  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  they  are  very 
stiff,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  until  the  rest  is  ready.  With  an 
egg  beater  beat  the  milk  and  yolks  until  frothy  ;  then  add  the 
flour  a  little  at  a  time,  beating  continuously  with  a  spoon  or 
the  egg  beater  used  like  a  spoon,  until  the  mixture  is  of  the 
desired  thickness.  Then  fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Do 
not  beat,  as  that  will  allow  the  air  to  escape  from  the  whites; 
but  put  the  spoon  down  by  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  bring  it 
up  through  the  center.  Pour  into  warm  and  well-oiled  gem 


I5<^  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

irons,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  The  oven  should  bake  well 
from  the  top,  so  that  a  slight  crust  will  form  to  keep  in  the 
air.  Bake  three  fourths  of  an  hour. 

CORN    GEMS. 

Take  i  egg,  i),  cups  of  any  kind  of  nut  milk,  ]  cup  of 
sugar,  i  cup  of  white  flour,  and  \  cup  of  yellow  corn-meal. 
Beat  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  the  sugar,  and  nut  milk  together, 
Mix  the  corn-meal  and  flour,  and  add  a  little  at  a  time, 
beating  constantly  for  five  or  ten  minutes.  The  colder  the 
material,  the  more  foamy  and  light  it  will  become.  Then 
add  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  the  egg,  and  bake  in  gem 
irons  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

Take  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  cold  nut  cream  (the  colder  the 
materials,  the  lighter  the  gems  will  be),  to  which  add  |  cup 
of  sugar  and  2\  cups  of  graham  flour.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs, 
cream,  sugar,  and  salt  together  ;  add  the  flour  slowly,  beat- 
ing continuously.  Then  beat  vigorously  for  five  or  ten  min- 
utes, until  it  becomes  real  light  and  full  of  air  bubbles.  Then 
add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  bake  as  other 
gems. 

WHOLE- WHEAT  GEMS. 

Put  the  yolk  of  i  egg  into  a  large  bowl  or  round-bottomed 
pan.  Add  to  it  i  ^  cups  of  any  kind  of  nut  milk,  beating 
thoroughly  until  foamy  with  air  bubbles,  after  which  add  a 
small  quantity  at  a  time,  of  whole-wheat  flour,  beating  con- 
tinuously, until  2  cups  have  been  put  in.  Continue  the  beat- 
ing for  ten  minutes  more  after  the  last  of  the  flour  has  been 
added.  After  it  has  been  beaten  as  directed,  add  the  stiffly 


UNLEAVENED  BREADS.  I  59 

beaten  white  of  the  egg.  Do  not  beat  after  egg  has  been 
added,  but  turn  at  once  into  heated  gem  irons,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  one  hour.  If  properly  made,  they  will  be 
as  light  as  bread  made  with  yeast. 

FILBERT  GEMS. 

Take  i  pound  of  filberts  in  the  shell,  remove  kernels  from 
shells,  and  grind  to  a  meal.  Beat  3  eggs  thoroughly,  add  3 
cups  of  water,  and  beat  in  3  cups  of  whole-wheat  or  graham 
flour,  after  which  fold  in  the  filbert  meal,  and  bake  in  very 
hot  gem  irons  in  a  quick  oven. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

Take  I  cup  of  raw  peanut  cream,  i  cup  of  very  cold  water, 
2  eggs,  2\  cups  of  whole- wheat  flour,  and  a  little  salt.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  the  water,  cream,  and  salt  together  ; 
then  add  the  flour,  slowly  beating  for  about  ten  minutes  ; 
then  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  2  eggs,  folding  them 
in,  and  bake  in  gem  irons  in  a  quick  oven  for  nearly  an  hour. 
The  cream  from  any  nuts  may  be  used. 

DELICATE  PUFFS. 

Take  i  cup  of  very  thick  hickory-nut  cream  and  i  cup  ol 
real  cold  water,  or  two  cups  of  thin  crearn;  also  2  eggs,  \  cup 
of  sugar,  2.t  cups  of  whole-wheat  flour,  and  a  little  salt. 
Beat  the  liquid,  sugar,  salt,  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  together; 
then  add  the  flour  slowly,  beating  all  the  time.  After  the 
flour  is  in,  continue  beating  for  five  or  ten  minutes,  until  it 
becomes  light,  and  full  of  air  bubbles.  Then  fold  in  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  which  should  be  beaten  to  a  very  stiff  froth. 
Bake  in  hot  gem  irons  for  forty-five  minutes. 


l6o  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


CORN  PUFFS. 

Take  \  cup  of  yellow  corn-meal,  I  cup  of  fresh  mashed 
potatoes,  }2  cup  of  nut  milk,  i  egg-,  and  a  little  salt.  Pour 
the  milk  over  the  corn-meal.  Add  the  potatoes,  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Fold  in  the  egg,  which  has  been  well  beaten 
beforehand.  Bake  in  gem  irons  in  a  quick  oven. 

CORN-MEAL  MUFFINS. 

Take  I  pint  of  warm  nut  milk,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  I  cup 
of  white  flour,  i  heaping  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  \  cake 
of  yeast.  Grate  or  break  the  yeast-cake  up  fine.  Mix  it 
with  the  other  ingredients,  and  add  enough  Indian  meal  to 
make  a  thick  batter.  Let  rise  overnight.  In  the  morning 
add  a  little  peanut  oil;  let  rise  again,  and  pour  into  gem  irons 
only  half  full.  Let  rise  a  few  minutes  and  bake. 

RAISED  WAFFLE  BATTER. 

Take  i  quart  of  sifted  flour,  i.\  pints  of  warm  nut  milk,  \ 
yeast-cake,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  ^  tablespoonful  of  nutcoa. 
Mix  all  together,  and  let  rise  overnight.  In  the  morning  add 
2  or  3  well-beaten  eggs,  and  beat  into  the  batter.  Let  stand 
a  short  time,  and  pour  into  well-oiled,  hot  gem  irons,  and 
bake. 

WHOLE-WHEAT  PUFFS. 

Take  2  cups  of  whole-wheat  flour,  i  \  cups  of  nut  milk 
(very  cold),  2  eggs,  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Make  a  batter  of 
the  flour,  milk,  and  salt,  and  beat  for  ten  minutes.  Then 
beat  the  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  separately,  and  fold  in. 
Pour  into  well-oiled,  warm  gem  irons,  and  bake  one  hour. 


UNLEAVENED    I'.KKADS.  l6l 

GRAHAM  PUFFS. 

Take  I  .\  cups  of  graham  flour,  I  cup  of  white  flour, 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  large  cup  of 
nut  milk,  and  3  eggs.  Make  a  batter  with  the  flour,  milk 
(cold),  salt,  and  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  until  thick  and 
creamy,  and  beat  the  whites  until  stiff  and  crumbly.  Fold 
the  yolks  into  the  batter ;  then  fold  in  the  whites.  Pour  into 
warm,  well-oiled  gem  irons,  and  bake  one  hour. 

MILK  GEMS. 

Cook  some  raw  peanut  milk  in  a  double  boiler  for  two 
hours,  and  then  set  it  in  a  cool  place  until  morning.  Then 
take  i\  cups  of  the  milk,  i  egg,  a  little  salt,  and  enough  flour 
to  make  a  gem  batter ;  put  the  yolk  of  the  egg  in  the  milk, 
beat  well,  and  add  the  flour  (whole-wheat  preferable),  beat- 
ing it  thoroughly  for  five  or  ten  minutes  ;  then  add  the  stiffly 
beaten  white.  Pour  into  hot  gem  irons  and  bake  nearly 
an  hour. 

SWEET  POTATO  GEMS. 

Take  i.i  cups  of  mashed  sweet  potato,  sift  thoroughly 
through  a  sieve  or  colander,  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a 
little  salt,  i  tablespoonful  of  nut  cream,  and  i  tablespoonful 
of  malt  or  sugar;  mix  well,  and  add  2  cups  of  nut  milk; 
beat,  pour  into  gem  irons,  and  bake.  If  the  gem  irons  are 
not  available,  bake  in  the  form  of  cakes  on  a  griddle. 

BEATEN  BISCUIT. 

Take  i  cup  of  water,  i  cup  of  raw  peanut  cream,  .\  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  as  much  flour  (whole-wheat)  as  can  be 
kneaded  in.  Mix  all  together  well,  knead  it  very  stiff,  roll  it 
out  a  little,  sprinkle  with  flour,  fold  over,  and  beat  with  a 


1 62  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

wooden  potato  masher  or  hammer,  beating  around  the  edges 
first,  so  as  to  keep  in  all  the  air  possible.  Continue  this  proc- 
ess until  the  dough  is  very  elastic,  and  will  give  a  sharp  sound 
if  a  piece  is  broken  off  quickly.  The  same  result  will  be 
obtained  if  the  dough  is  pulled  like  taffy  candy,  instead  of 
beating  it,  and  it  makes  much  less  noise.  When  the  dough 
is  elastic,  cut  into  small  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
and  roll  into  a  round  biscuit,  then  with  the  thumb  and  finger 
press  a  hole  through  the  center  of  the  biscuit  ;  this  will  give 
it  a  chance  to  expand  more,  making  the  biscuit  light.  Place 
on  perforated  tins,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour. 

RAW-BUTTER  ROLLS  NO.   J. 

Take  2.\  cups  of  flour  (seconds),  i  cup  of  raw  nut  butter, 
'I  cup  of  water,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Sift  and  measure  the 
flour.  Dissolve  the  butter  in  the  water,  working  until  it  is 
smooth  and  creamy.  Add  the  salt,  and  pour  into  the  flour  a 
little  at  a  time,  working  it  with  a  spoon  or  the  hand  as  in 
making  a  suds  of  water  and  soap.  This  will  make  it  foamy, 
and  introduce  more  air  into  the  mixture.  When  part  of  the 
cream  has  been  wet  with  the  flour,  remove  to  the  cake-board, 
and  pour  in  more  cream  on  the  flour,  and  "  suds  ''  as  before. 
When  all  the  cream  has  been  used,  put  the  pieces  together 
and  knead  thoroughly  for  ten  minutes,  after  which  roll  it  out 
into  a  roll  as  smooth  as  possible,  and  about  an  inch  in  diame- 
ter. Cut  into  any  lengths  desired,  and  bake  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven  until  thoroughly  baked,  which  may  require  nearly 

an  hour. 

ROLLS  NO.  2. 

The  following  recipe  can  be  varied  by  using  whole-wheat, 
graham,  or  pastry  flour;  also,  if  preferred,  a  mixture  of  differ- 
ent kinds,  as  half  graham  and  half  white  flour,  which  is  bet- 
ter than  all  graham.  Whole-wheat  is  considered  the  best. 


UNLEAVENED    BREADS.  163 

To  i  cup  of  best  whole-wheat  flour,  take  f  of  a  cup  of 
peanut  meal,  and  about  }2  cup  of  water-  -enough  to  make  a 
very  stiff  dough.  Knead  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  until  the 
dough  will  make  a  snapping  sound  when  a  piece  is  pulled  out 
quickly.  Then  roll  with  the  hands  until  about  three  fourths 
of  an  inch  in  diameter ;  cut  into  desired  lengths,  and  bake  on 
roll  bakers  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour. 

ROLLS  NO.   3. 

To  i  cup  of  flour,  take  .\  cup  of  almond  meal,  and  nearly 
.',  cup  of  water,  which  ought  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough. 
Knead  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  form  into  rolls  about  £  of 
an  inch  in  diameter,  cut  into  desired  lengths,  and  bake  on 
roll  bakers,  in  an  oven  moderately  heated,  until  thoroughly 
baked.  Nearly  an  hour  will  be  required. 

Almond  butter  or  peanut  butter  may  be  used,  if  desired, 
in  place  of  almond  meal. 

ROLLS  NO.  4. 

To  i  cup  of  raw  peanut  cream  (use  care  not  to  have  it  too 
thick  ;  and  if  it  should  be  too  rich,  add  an  equal  quantity  of 
water),  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  enough  whole-wheat  flour  to 
make  a  very  stiff  dough.  Knead  until  the  dough  becomes 
quite  elastic,  and  will  make  a  snapping  sound  when  a  piece 
of  dough  is  quickly  pulled  off.  The  more  stiffly  the  dough  is 
kneaded  and  worked,  the  better  the  quality  of  the  rolls 
will  be. 

ROLLS  NO.  5. 

Take  \  cup  of  cocoanut  cream,  i  cup  of  cold  water,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  and  sufficient  whole-wheat  flour  to  make  a  very 
stiff  dough.  Whole-wheat  flour  is  more  nutritious  than  the 
white,  as  it  contains  more  gluten,  salts,  and  phosphate. 


164  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

Lighter  and  crisper  rolls  can  be  made  by  its  use.  Knead  the 
mixture  until  it  becomes  very  elastic,  and  make  into  rolls 
about  three  fourths  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  two  inches  long. 
They  are  better  if  baked  on  roll  bakers,  as  the  heat  can 
reach  them  equally  from  all  sides. 

ROLLS  NO.   6. 

To  .\  cup  of  cream  taken  from  chufa  milk,  add  \  a  ciij> 
of  water,  and  a  quantity  of  whole-wheat  flour  sufficient  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Make  the  same  as  Rolls  No.  4. 

These  are  delicious,  and  also  inexpensive,  as  chufas  may 
be  raised  in  nearly  all  sections  of  this  country.  See  article 
on  "Chufa." 

ROLLS  NO.  7. 

Take  |  cup  of  pine-nut  meal,  i  cup  of  white  or  whole- 
wheat flour,  a  little  salt,  and  enough  cold  water  to  make  a 
very  stiff  dough.  For  further  directions,  see  Rolls  No.  i . 

*/  o 

ROLLS  NO.  8. 

Any  shortening  most  convenient  and  cheap  may  be  used. 
Where  pecans  and  hickory-nuts  are  plentiful,  they  may  be 
used  in  the  form  of  meal  or  milk  and  cream. 

Take  i  cup  of  rich  hickory-nut  or  pecan  milk,  i  cup  of 
flour,  and  a  small  amount  of  salt.  Knead  thoroughly.  If 
the  dough  does  not  become  real  stiff,  add  more  flour. 

NUT  ROLLS. 

Take  2  cups  of  any  cold  cooked  cereals,  and  add  f  cup  of 
nut  meal.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  knead  on  aboard  until  smooth 
and  firm,  using  white  or  whole-wheat  flour.  Form  into  rolls 
about  the  si/e  of  the  finger  and  bake  on  roll  bakers  in  a  mod- 
erately hot  oven. 


rXLEAVEXHD  BREADS.  165 

NUT  CRISPS  NO.   J. 

Make  dough  as  for  Rolls  No.  2  or  No.  3.  Roll  out  as  thin 
as  brown  paper,  cut  into  squares,  and  bake  on  perforated 
tins  or  roll  baker  until  done. 

CRISPS  NO.  2. 

'Any  dough  used  in  the  various  kinds  of  rolls  is  suitable  for 
making  crisps.  The  dough  made  from  the  cream  is  excellent. 

HICKORY-NUT  CRISPS. 

Take  i^  cups  of  whole-wheat  or  graham  flour,  and  thor- 
oughly mix  into  it  A  cup  of  hickory-nut  meal.  Add  salt,  and 
sufficient  water  to  knead  easily.  Roll  out  as  thin  as  brown 
paper,  perforate  the  dough  by  means  of  a  fork,  in  order  to 
avoid  blistering,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Watch  them 
closely  to  prevent  burning. 

NUT  STICKS. 

Make  a  dough  similar  to  that  for  Rolls  No.  2  or  No.  3,  and 
roll  with  the  hands  until  it  is  about  the  size  of  a  lead-pencil. 
Cut  in  lengths  six  inches  long,  and  bake  in  the  oven  until  a 
light  brown. 

STICKS. 

Any  dough  made  for  rolls  will  be  equally  good  for  sticks. 
The  cream  dough  is  especially  good. 

ZWIEBACK. 

To  make  good  zwieback,  the  bread  from  which  it  is  made 
should  be  very  light  and  porous.  It  should  not  be  new  bread 
or  bread  that  is  moist,  as  that  kind  of  bread  makes  very  hard 
and  tough  zwieback.  Bread  that  is  several  days  old,  and  that 


1 66  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

has  been  in  a  place  where  it  will  dry  out  is  the  best  for 
zwieola.  Either  graham  or  white  can  be  used.  Cut  into 
slices  about  one  half  or  two  thirds  of  an  inch  thick  ;  place  in 
a  warming  oven  on  a  roll  baker,  or  in  the  oven  with  the  door 
open,  so  that  it  will  thoroughly  dry  out  before  toasting. 
Then  the  doors  may  be  closed.  It  should  be  toasted  to  a 
light  brown.  The  slices  can  be  cut  one  inch  thick  if  desired, 
but  the  thinner  it  is  the  more  brittle  it  will  be. 

UNLEAVENED  BISCUIT. 

Take  4  eggs,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  nut  butter,  4  cups  of 
granose  flakes,  salt  to  taste.  Beat  whites  and  yolks  separ- 
ately, and  to  the  yolks  add  the  nut  butter  and  salt  ;  beat  to 
cream,  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  ;  last  of  all,  quickly 
fold  in  the  granose  flakes,  not  waiting  for  every  flake  to  be 
moistened.  Drop  in  spoonfuls  on  oiled  tins  ;  bake  fifteen 
minutes,  or  until  lightly  brown  ;  £-  cup  of  sugar  may  be  used 
if  desired. 

NO.  J  GLUTEN. 

Take  5  cups  of  water,  13  cups  white  flour  (Pillsbury's 
Best  is  one  of  the  best  grades  of  flour  to  make  this,  as  it  con- 
tains more  gluten  than  some  grades.)  Mix  the  water  and  the 
flour  into  a  loaf,  knead  for  ten  minutes,  and  then  put  in  a 
pan  and  cover  with  water.  Let  it  stand  an  hour  or  more, 
then  begin  to  work  with  the  hands,  washing  out  the  starch. 
Wash  thoroughly  through  several  waters  until  the  water  is 
clear;  then  wiping  the  gluten  with  a  clean,  dry  cloth,  cut  into 
pieces  like  small  biscuit,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven, 
being  careful  not  to  brown  them  too  much,  as  that  will  make 
the  gluten  dark.  Keep  it  where  it  is  warm  until  it  is  thor- 
oughly dried  through,  and  grind  through  the  mill.  This  will 


UNLEAVENED    BREADS.  I 67 

be  No.  i  Gluten,  and  usually  costs  fifty  cents  a  pound.  The 
water  in  which  it  was  washed  can  be  left  in  a  pan  (earthen) 
overnight  ;  then  turn  off  the  water,  and  the  starch  which  is  in 
the  bottom  can  be  dried  and  used  in  making  nutmeato,  and 
for  other  purposes,  instead  of  corn-starch. 

NO.  3  GLUTEN. 

Take  i  cup  of  No.  i  Gluten,  2  cups  white  flour,  enough  cold 
water  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough,  and  as  little  water  as  pos- 
sible. Roll  into  thin  crackers,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (but 
not  brown),  break  into  pieces,  and  grind  in  the  mill.  A  grain 
mill  is  best,  as  it  will  make  it  finer. 


YEAST  BREADS. 


HOP   YEAST. 

i  handful  of  hops  in  a  cheese-cloth  bag,  and  boil 
in  2  quarts  of  water  for  fifteen  minutes;  then  remove  the 
bag,  and  pour  the  boiling  tea  over  I  pint  of  white  flour, 
to  which  has  been  added  I  tablespoonful  of  salt,  pouring 
slowly  at  first  in  order  to  have  it  smooth  and  free  from  lumps. 
If  at  all  lumpy,  strain,  and  when  lukewarm,  add  I  cup  of 
liquid  yeast  or  i  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise.  When  light,  put  in  glass  cans,  and  keep  in  a 
cool  place. 

FRUIT  YEAST. 

Take  i  cup  of  raisins,  wash  them  well,  and  put  them  to 
soak  in  i  ,\  pints  of  warm  water,  keeping  them  in  a  warm 
place  for  two  or  three  days,  or  until  fermentation  takes  place, 
which  can  be  told  by  the  bubbles  on  top  of  the  water.  Then 
make  a  potato  yeast  by  boiling  4  good-sized  potatoes  until 
tender;  mash  fine,  or  sift  through  a  colander  or  vegetable 
press.  Add  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
and  when  cooled  to  blood-heat,  add  enough  of  the  raisin 
water  to  make  of  the  right  consistency,  which  will  be  about 
2  cupfuls.  Let  it  rise  until  light,  and  then  put  in  clean  glass 
cans,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  It  is  better  to  be  a  few  days 
old  before  using. 

POTATO  YEAST. 

Peel  4  good-sized  potatoes,  boil,  and    mash    them.      Add 
to  them  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  J  tablespoonful  of  salt,   i  \ 
cups  of  water,  and  sift  through  a  sieve  to  remove  all   lumps. 
[168] 


YEAST    BREADS.  169 

When  lukewarm,  add  A  cup  of  good  yeast,  and  let  stand  until 
well  risen;  then  put  into  sterilized  glass  cans,  and  keep  in  a 
cool  place. 

QUICK  YEAST  BREAD. 

The  potato  yeast  is  the  best  for  bread  making,  as  the 
bread  keeps  moist  longer,  and  there  is  no  danger  of  injuring 
the  flavor  of  the  bread  by  using  too  much.  A  fine-grained 
and  very  sweet  bread  may  be  made  by  raising  the  dough  only 
once,  thereby  saving  time,  trouble,  and  what  is  far  better,  the 
sweet  flavor  and  nutrition  of  the  bread.  But  in  order  to  have 
this  bread  successful,  the  yeast  must  be  good  and  lively. 

To  make  3  loaves,  take  3  quarts  of  flour,  i  small  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  i  quart  of  milk-warm  water,  I  pint  of  potato 
yeast  or  i  cake  of  compressed  yeast.  Sift  the  flour  into  the 
bread  pan,  and  form  a  hollow  in  the  center;  put  in  the  salt 
and  pour  in  the  water,  constantly,  stirring  with  one  hand  until 
a  thin  batter  is  formed;  then  add  the  yeast,  and  mix  thoroughly 
until  a  stiff  dough  is  formed.  Then  take  out  on  the  bread 
board,  and  knead  thoroughly  for  twenty  minutes  or  more, 
flouring  the  board  to  keep  it  from  sticking.  Form  into  loaves, 
put  into  well-oiled  pans,  rub  over  the  top  a  little  peanut  oil, 
and  let  it  rise  until  about  twice  its  first  size.  Then  put  in  a 
moderate  oven  and  bake  one  hour.  The  loaves  should  not 
crust  over  for  the  first  twenty  minutes,  and  during  this  time 
they  should  rise  to  double  the  size  of  the  loaf  that  was  put  in 
the  oven.  The  pan  should  be  deep  enough  to  retain  them  in 
shape;  then  the  temperature  of  the  oven  should  be  raised  to 
six  hundred  degrees  for  about  twenty  minutes;  but  the  last 
twenty  minutes  should  be  quite  moderate. 


I"O  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


YEAST  BREAD  NO.   \. 

Dissolve  i  cake  of  compressed  yeast  in  i  pint  of  warm 
water,  or  i  cup  of  good  liquid  yeast  ;  and  thicken  with  white 
flour  (like  Pillsbury's  Best)  to  make  a  medium  stiff  batter.  Set 
this  sponge  at  nine  o'clock  in  the  evening,  in  a  dish  large 
enough  to  have  plenty  of  room  to  rise.  It  should  be  kept  at 
a  temperature  of  about  sixty  degrees.  If  kept  too  warm,  it 
will  be  apt  to  fall  before  morning.  In  the  morning  add  i 
pint  of  warm  water  in  which  has  been  dissolved  i  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  nut  butter.  Almond  butter  is  preferable,  as 
it  will  not  make  the  bread  yellow  ;  if  peanut  butter  is  used, 
the  peanuts  of  which  it  is  made  should  not  be  roasted  very 
brown, —  only  a  straw  color.  Add  also  i  tablespoonful  of 
sugar  and  i  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  thoroughly  with  the 
sponge,  and  lift  it  up,  working  in  the  flour  and  pulling  it  at 
the  same  time.  Do  not  add  enough  flour  to  make  it  very 
stiff  ;  but  pull  it  until  it  is  very  elastic  and  the  hand  becomes 
clean  of  the  dough.  Then  set  it  to  rise  the  second  time. 
When  light,  mold  into  loaves,  kneading  as  little  as  possible. 
Flour  them,  and  put  into  oiled  tins.  The  loaves  should  be 
as  soft  as  can  be  lifted  into  the  tins.  Let  stand  in  a  warm 
place  until  twice  their  original  size,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  The  loaves  should  not  crust  over  for  the  first  twenty 
minutes  ;  then  it  should  have  a  hotter  fire  for  twenty  minutes  ; 
and  then  a  more  moderate  fire  for  the  last  twenty  minutes. 
It  should  bake  one  hour. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

It  is  always  best  to  set  the  sponge  with  white  flour,  for 
the  graham  flour  is  more  likely  to  sour,  as  it  contains  more 
gluten.  When  both  kinds  of  bread  are  to  be  made,  some  of 
the  white  sponge  may  be  taken  for  making  the  graham  bread. 


YEAST    BREADS.  I /I 

To  I  pint  of  the  sponge,  add  I  pint  of  warm  water,  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  I  of  malt  extract.  Add  enough  graham 
flour  to  make  a  rather  stiff  dough.  Pull  or  knead  for  half  an 
hour.  Form  into  loaves,  oil  with  nut  oil,  and  when  they 
have  risen  to  twice  their  original  size,  place  in  the  oven  and 
bake  for  one  hour.  The  oven  should  be  moderate  for  the 
first  twenty  minutes,  to  give  the  bread  a  chance  to  rise  before 
a  crust  forms  ;  then  the  oven  should  be  hot  for  twenty 
minutes,  that  all  the  yeast  germs  may  be  killed  ;  and  then 
moderated  at  the  last,  so  to  not  burn  the  crust.  When  done, 
remove  from  the  tins,  and  set  in  a  draft,  on  a  tin  or  a  plate, 
until  cool. 

STEAMED  GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Take  3^  cups  of  graham  flour,  2  cups  of  corn-meal,  3  cups 
of  nut  milk,  I  cup  of  malt  extract,  I  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix 
the  nut  milk,  salt,  and  malt  together  ;  then  mix  the  corn- 
meal  and  flour,  and  stir  into  the  liquid.  Put  into  basins  or 
baking-powder  cans,  and  steam  for  two  and  one-half  hours. 
Then  brown  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

SALT-RISING  BREAD. 

Take  a  perfectly  clean  bowl,  and  one  that  has  not  had  any 
acid  substance  like  cooked  fruit  in  it.  Put  in  it  i  cup  of 
warm  water,  \  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
meal,  i  drop  of  ginger  extract,  and  enough  white  flour  to 
make  a  medium  thick  batter.  Beat  it  very  thoroughly,  and 
set  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  warm  water  to  secure  a  uniformity 
of  temperature.  It  will  rise  in  about  five  hours,  sometimes 
more  quickly.  Much  depends  upon  the  flour.  When  it  is 
light,  take  a  pint  of  quite  warm  water,  and  add  enough  flour 
to  make  a  rather  stiff  sponge.  When  lukewarm,  add  the 
rising,  stirring  it  in  well.  If  kept  in  a  warm  place,  it  ought 


17-  r.riDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

to  be  light  in  one  or  two  hours.  When  light,  knead  into 
loaves.  It  requires  much  less  kneading  than  yeast  bread. 
When  the  loaves  have  risen  to  twice  their  original  size,  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  nearly  an  hour. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

Select  good  wheat  from  the  granary  or  grist-mill,  wash  it, 
and  remove  all  foreign  substances.  Soak  it  overnight.  Put 
it  in  a  cloth  sack,  and  steam  it  until  plump,  but  not  soft. 
Spread  thin  on  tins,  and  roast  in  the  oven  until  well  dried, 
and  somewhat  brown.  Grind  through  the  mill,  not  making 
an  effort  to  have  it  very  fine.  It  should  be  rather  coarse. 

To  i  quart  of  caramel-cereal  coffee,  add  2  level  table- 
spoonfuls  of  nut  butter.  When  boiling,  stir  into  it  \  cup  of 
rye  flour,  .\  cup  of  corn-meal,  i  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt,  all  of  which  have  been  well  sifted  together.  When 
again  boiling,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  into  it  enough  of 
the  prepared  wheat  to  make  a  very  stiff  substance.  Com- 
pactly press  into  an  oiled  pan,  cover,  and  steam  three  hours. 
Dry  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes,  and  serve  hot. 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD. 

Take  I  cup  of  malt  extract,  i  pint  (2  cups)  of  nut  cream 
(raw  peanut).  This  must  be  quite  thin  cream.  If  thick 
cream  is  used,  use  half  water.  Take  i  cup  of  white  flour, 
2  cups  of  corn-meal.  Heat  the  thin  cream  in  the  double 
boiler  until  it  is  hot  ;  but  it  is  not  necessary  to  cook  it. 
Then  add  the  corn-meal  and  malt,  and  lastly  mix  in  the 
white  flour.  Steam  for  three  hours,  and  then  place  in  the 
oven  to  brown  for  a  little  while.  The  cream  of  any  nuts 
may  be  used,  or  the  cream  made  from  the  diluted  nut  butter. 
Sugar  may  be  used  instead  of  malt  if  desired. 


YEAST    BREADS.  173 


STEAMED  YEAST  BREAD. 

The  great  objection  to  yeast  bread  is  the  yeast  germ 
which  it  contains.  In  baking,  the  cooking  process  can  not 
be  continued  long  enough  to  kill  all  the  germs  ;  but  by  steam- 
ing the  bread  instead  of  baking  it,  the  cooking  can  be  con- 
tinued for  two  or  three  hours,  or  even  longer.  Any  yeast 
breads  may  be  steamed.  After  removing  from  the  steamer, 
place  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

Breads  cooked  in  this  way  are  very  light,  and  much 
sweeter  than  when  baked. 

MUSH  BREAD. 

Take  4  cups  of  hot  water,  put  in  the  inner  cup  of  a  double 
boiler,  and  set  on  the  stove  until  it  boils.  Then  stir  in  i  cup 
of  corn-meal,  adding  a  little  salt  if  desired.  Let  it  boil  until 
it  thickens,  and  then  place  in  the  outer  part  of  a  double 
boiler,  'and  cook  for  two  hours.  Pour  the  mush  while  hot 
over  i  quart  of  graham  flour,  and  mix  well.  When  cool,  add 
i  pint  of  sponge,  ^  cup  of  malt  extract,  and  i  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Mix  thoroughly,  adding  more  flour  if  needed,  and  knead 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Make  into  loaves,  having  only  one 
loaf  in  a  pan,  and  let  rise.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This 
recipe  will  make  two  loaves. 

CHESTNUT  BREAD. 

Make  a  sponge  as  for  white  bread,  using  good  white  flour. 
When  perfectly  light,  add  a  little  salt  and  enough  of  chestnut 
flour  to  knead  well.  After  kneading  it  thoroughly,  form  into 
loaves,  put  into  well-oiled  tins,  and  let  it  rise  until  twice  its 
first  size,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour. 


174  'GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

RAISED  BISCUITS    (LIGHT). 

Take  I  quart  of  sifted  flour,  i  pint  of  warm  nut  milk,  i  cake 
of  yeast,  I  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Set  at  nine  o'clock  at  night. 
In  the  morning  push  it  down  with  a  spoon.  When  light 
again,  pull  for  ten  minutes,  using  as  little  flour  as  possible. 
Make  it  into  small  biscuits  ;  place  on  an  oiled  pan  a  little 
distance  apart.  When  very  light,  bake  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes. 

PARKER-HOUSE    BISCUIT. 

Take  I  quart  of  sifted  flour,  I  pint  of  warm  nut  milk, 
]  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  nutcoa 
one  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  ^  cake  of  yeast.  Sift  the 
flour  in  the  bread  pan,  add  the  sugar,  and  peanut  oil  which 
has  been  beaten  together  to  a  cream  ;  then  add  the  warm  nut 
milk  and  the  yeast  dissolved  in  the  milk.  Add  salt.  Do 
not  stir,  but  let  rise  until  evening,  then  mix  all  together, 
and  knead  for  twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes.  Let  rise  over- 
night. In  the  morning  form  into  biscuits,  and  when  per- 
fectly light,  bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

RAISED  BISCUIT. 

Take  1  of  a  compressed  yeast-cake,  and  dissolve  in  i  pint 
of  warm  (but  not  hot)  water.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
white  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Put  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise.  When  light,  add  more  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
dough,  and  a  little  sugar  if  desired,  and  let  rise  again.  When 
light  the  second  time,  work  in  i  cup  of  peanut  oil.  Make 
into  biscuits  of  desired  size,  and  let  rise  until  very  light  ;  then 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Seedless  raisins  may  be  added 
if  desired. 


YEAST    BREADS.  I  75 

BREAKFAST  BUNS, 

Take  3  cups  of  nut  milk,  \  cup  of  sugar,  I  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  i  cake  of  yeast,  and  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  stiff  bat- 
ter. Let  it  rise  overnight.  In  the  morning  take  .|  cup  of 
almond  or  peanut  meal,  or  \  cup  of  peanut  oil  ;  mix  thor- 
oughly with  the  batter,  pulling  it  for  ten  minutes.  Beat 
2  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Add  them  to  the 
batter.  Finish  like  preceding  recipe. 

STEAMED  BUNS. 

Make  the  buns  the  same  as  other  buns  for  baking,  but 
steam  them  in  the  steam-cooker  for  two  hours.  The  long 
cooking  kills  the  yeast  germ,  and  makes  them  easier  of  diges- 
tion. They  should  be  put  in  an  oven  and  browned  after 
being  taken  from  the  steamer.  They  are  most  excellent  if 
the  sponge  is  set  with  thin  raw  peanut  cream  ;  and  when 
made  into  buns,  knead  in  some  whole  nuts,  such  as  hickory- 
nuts,  pecans,  walnuts,  butternuts,  or  any  kind  of  fruit  desired, 
as  raisins  or  currants. 

RAISED  POTATO  ROLLS. 

Take  i  pint  of  mashed  potatoes,  i  pint  of  nut  cream, 
i  compressed  yeast-cake  (i  ounce),  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
flour  enough  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  batter.  Mix  the  pota- 
toes, cream,  yeast,  and  salt,  and  then  add  the  flour.  Cover 
the  bread  pan,  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  If  too  hot, 
the  sponge  will  scald  ;  therefore  the  pan  should  never  be  put 
where  the  hand  can  not  be  held  with  comfort.  When  the 
sponge  is  light,  add  more  flour  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to 
knead  without  sticking  to  the  hands  and  board.  Knead  for 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  roll  it  out  about  half  an  inch 
thick,  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Lay  two  together,  and 


1/  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

put  them  in  an  oiled  baking  pan,  and  let  them  rise  to  twice 
their  height.  Then  brush  the  tops  with  peanut  oil,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty  minutes. 

Sweet  potatoes  mashed  may  be  substituted  for  the  Irish 
potatoes  if  desired. 

VERY  FINE  BUNS. 

Take  4  cups  of  white  flour,  i  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  nut 
cream  made  from  almond  butter  or  cocoanut  cream,  2  eggs, 
|  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  and  \  pound  of  seedless  raisins. 
Make  a  batter  of  the  milk,  yeast,  and  enough  of  the  flour  to 
make  it  quite  thick.  Set  it  in  a  warm  place,  and  when 
perfectly  light,  add  the  salt,  sugar,  and  the  eggs,  which 
should  be  well  beaten.  Flour  the  raisins  before  adding,  and 
knead  in  the  flour.  More  flour  may  have  to  be  added,  unless 
the  Minnesota  spring-wheat  flour  is  used.  Knead  well,  and 
form  into  small  buns.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When 
very  light,  brush  the  top  with  a  little  nut  milk  to  give  it  a 
glossy  appearance,  or  sprinkle  sugar  over  the  top  ;  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

RAISED  CORN-MEAL  CAKE. 

Take  2  cupfuls  of  corn-meal;  2  cupfuls  of  flour,  \  cake  of 
dry  yeast  or  i  gill  of  liquid  yeast,  i  tablespoonful  of  flour,  i 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  warm  water  enough  to  make  a  thick 
batter.  Rise  overnight,  and  bake  in  shallow  pans. 

SHORTCAKES. 

To  i  pint  of  warm  -water,  add  from  *  to  i  cake  of  com- 
pressed yeast  or  its  equivalent  in  some  other  kind.  Use 
sifted  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  stiff  sponge.  It  will  rise  in 
three  or  four  hours  if  kept  at  a  temperature  of  eighty-five 
degrees.  When  it  is  well  risen,  add  i  tablespoonful  of  nut 


YEAST    BREADS.  I  77 

butter,  a  little  sugar,  and  enough  more  flour  to  make  a  dough 
as  soft  as  can  be  conveniently  handled  and  rolled.  It  should 
be  rolled  in  layers  not  more  than  one  half  an  inch  thick,  two  of 
which  may  be  baked  on  the  same  tin,  if  a  trifle  of  fat  of  some 
kind  be  applied  to  the  top  of  the  lower  one  to  prevent  their 
sticking  together.  Let  them  rise  until  very  light,  and  bake 
until  well  done.  If  the  top  crust  seems  rather  hard,  moisten 
it  with  a  wet  cloth  in  milk  or  a  thin  emulsion  of  nut  butter. 
Turn  the  upper  one  over  on  to  a  plate,  and  spread  it  with  the 
prepared  fruit,  which  may  be  berries  of  any  kind,  sweetened 
to  suit  the  taste.  Put  the  other  crust  on  top,  covering  it 
with  a  layer  of  the  fruit.  It  may  be  served  hot  or  cold.  If 
plenty  of  fruit  be  used,  there  will  be  no  need  of  cream  or  any 
other  dressing. 

Shortcakes  may  be  prepared  the  year  round  by  using 
canned  fruit  or  stewed  dried  fruit.  If  this  be  in  large  form 
like  plums,  peaches,  etc.,  it  is  better  to  put  it  through  a 
colander  before  using.  It  will  many  times  be  found  advan- 
tageous to  combine  acid  fruit  with  one  naturally  sweet,  thus 
saving  the  use  of  dyspepsia-producing  cane-sugar. 

APPLE  SHORTCAKE. 

Take  i  cup  of  some  good  white  bread  sponge,  add  the 
yolk  of  i  egg  and  \  cup  of  thick  raw  peanut  cream.  Mix 
well  together,  and  add  enough  flour  to  roll  out  well.  Roll 
out  a  little  less  than  one  half  an  inch  thick,  and  place  on  an 
oiled  tin.  Put  on  the  top  some  tart  apples  which  have  been 
pared,  cored,  and  cut  into  eighths.  Set  in  a  warm  place, 
and  let  it  rise.  When  light,  cook  in  the  steam-cooker  for 
one  hour  ;  then  remove,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  or  cover  with 
a  meringue  made  of  the  white  of  i  egg,  i  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  and  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  it  on  roughly,  so  it 

12 


I  78 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


\vill  be  in  little  piles  and  bare  places  where  the  apple  will 
show  through.  Place  in  the  oven,  and  brown  slightly.  Serve 
with  a  cream  made  from  cocoanut. 

RAISED  CANNELONS. 

Take  I  cup  of  bread  sponge,  and  add  \  cup  of  thick  raw 
nut  cream  and  i  egg.  Work  well  together,  and  add  flour  to 
roll  out  well  until  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick  ;  then  cut 


RAISKD  CANNELON. 

into  strips  nearly  an  inch  wide.  Select  a  small,  round  stick 
the  size  of  a  small  broom  handle,  wash  until  clean,  dry,  and 
wrap  it  in  an  oiled  paper.  Then  take  the  strips  of  dough  and 
wind  them  around  the  stick,  twisting  as  you  wind  them, 
taking  pains  to  have  them  come  close  together  and  uniform 
in  size.  Make  the  cannelons  from  five  to  seven  inches  long, 


YEAST    BREADS.  179 

leaving  enough  of  the  stick  exposed  so  it  can  be  easily  pulled 
out  when  the  cannelon  is  cooked.  When  all  is  ready,  oil  the 
outside,  and  place  them  on  an  oiled  tin  or  tins  far  enough 
apart  so  they  will  not  touch  ;  cover  with  a  clean  napkin,  and 
let  them  rise  until  real  light.  Then  place  in  a  steam-cooker, 
having  the  water  in  the  cooker  cool  when  the  dough  is  put 
in,  so  they  will  cook  slowly  at  first,  and  give  them  a  chance 
to  rise.  Steam  for  one  hour  or  longer  if  desired.  Then 
remove  from  the  steamer,  and  put  in  the  oven  until  of  a 
nice  yellow  brown  ;  remove  from  the  oven,  and  take  out  the 
stick  while  the  cannelon  is  still  warm.  When  cold,  wrap  the 
cannelons  in  a  bread-cloth,  and  put  in  the  bread-box  or  stone 
jar.  They  should  stand  twenty-four  hours  before  serving. 
When  ready  to  serve,  fill  the  holes  with  a  cream  made  from  2 
cups  of  thin  cocoanut  cream,  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  i  cup 
sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch. 
Heat  the  cocoanut  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  it  quite 
often  to  keep  it  from  separating.  When  hot,  add  salt,  sugar, 
and  the  corn-starch  dissolved  in  a  little  thin  cream.  Let  it 
cook  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  quite  often  ;  then  add  the  eggs, 
which  should  be  beaten  well  ;  stir  in  well,  and  let  it  cook  for 
a  minute.  Remove  from  the  stove.  When  about  cool,  or 
before  it  stiffens,  fill  the  cannelons.  Let  them  get  cold,  and 
they  are  ready  to  serve. 

The  cannelons  may  be  filled  with  jelly  or  any  cream 
desired. 

OYSTER  SOUP  AND  DUMPLINGS. 

Take  I  pint  of  raw  peanut  milk,  and  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  for  two  hours,  stirring  occasionally  to  keep  it  from 
being  lumpy  or  from  separating.  At  the  same  time  the  soup 
is  put  on,  prepare  some  vegetable  oysters  by  scraping,  and 
cutting  in  diagonal,  crosswise  slices  in  such  a  way  that  the 


I  SO  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

slices  will  be  larger  and  more  the  shape  of  an  oyster.  Place 
them  in  one  side  of  a  granite  basin,  and  put  the  smaller  parts 
of  the  oysters  and  the  little  ones  on  the  other  side  of  the 
dish.  Put  into  a  steam-cooker,  and  cook  for  one  hour. 
When  done,  drop  the  large  slices  into  the  soup,  and  the  little 
ones  and  small  ends  should  be  sifted  through  a  wire  sieve  or 
a  colander  and  then  added  to  the  soup.  Add  salt,  and  more 
water  if  it  is  too  thick. 

Have  ready  some  raised  dumplings.  If  the  sponge  is  set 
early  in  the  morning,  they  will  be  ready  to  put  in  the  steam- 
cooker  about  half  past  ten.  Take  I  cup  of  any  good  white 
bread  sponge,  add  i  cup  of  quite  thick  raw  peanut  cream, 
and  i  egg  (the  egg  may  be  omitted).  Work  all  together,  and 
add  flour  to  form  into  very  small  biscuits.  Place  them  far 
apart  on  an  oiled  tin.  Put  them  in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 
When  more  than  twice  their  original  size,  put  in  the  steam- 
cooker  and  cook  for  one  and  one-half  or  two  hours.  Cooking 
does  not  hurt  them.  When  the  soup  is  ready,  put  the  dump- 
lings into  the  soup,  and  let  them  stew  together  for  ten  or 
twenty  minutes.  The  soup  should  not  be  too  thick. 

This  is  very  nice. 


FOR  NEW  RECIPES. 


[181] 


FOR  NEW   RECIPES. 


I  '82  J 


SANDWICHES. 


NUT-BUTTER  SANDWICHES. 

OPREAD  thin  slices  of  bread,  with  nut  butter.  Chop  some 
O  dates,  figs,  or  seedless  raisins  into  a  fine  mass,  and  spread 
upon  the  buttered  bread,  placing  upon  this,  buttered  side 
down,  another  slice  of  bread.  Crackers,  wafers,  or  other 
kinds  of  bread  may  be  substituted.  The  sandwich  would  be 
more  dainty  if  the  fruit  were  steamed. 

DATE  OR  FIG  SANDWICHES. 

Steam  fruit  fifteen  minutes  after  scalding  with  boiling 
water.  Grind  into  a  pulp,  or  else  place  them,  as  they  are, 
upon  slices  of  bread  generously  spread  with  nut  butter. 
These,  when  laid  closely  in  a  baking  dish,  moistened  with 
boiling  water,  and  baked,  make  an  excellent  pudding,  which 
should  be  served  with  cream,  grape  wine,  or  a  sauce  made  of 
lemons  or  oranges. 

ROLLED  NUT-BUTTER  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  lengthwise  slices  from  a  loaf  of  good,  fresh  bread. 
Spread  each  slice  with  peanut  butter,  or  any  other  kind 
desired  ;  sprinkle  on  a  little  salt,  and  squeeze  upon  the  slices 
a  little  lemon-juice.  Celery  salt  may  also  be  added.  On 
top  of  these  arrange  some  very  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  allowing 
the  curly  edges  to  extend  beyond  the  edges  of  the  bread. 

[183] 


1 34 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


Cut  a  piece  of  paper  the  size  of  the  slice,  or  slightly  larger, 
place  the  bread  upon  it,  and  by  the  aid  of  the  paper  roll  the 
slice  up,  taking  care  not  to  roll  in  the  paper,  too.  After  hav- 
ing rolled  the  bread,  encircle  it  with  the  paper,  and  tie  it, 
allowing  it  to  stand  for  a  time,  until  it  becomes  pressed  into 
shape,  when  the  paper  may  be  removed,  and  the  sandwich 
fastened  with  two  wooden  toothpicks.  Serve  upon  a  plate 
or  platter  garnished  with  lettuce  leaves. 


ROLLED  SANDWICHES. 


ROLLED  CABBAGE  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  bread  as  directed  in  previous  recipe,  and  spread  with 
nut  butter,  sprinkling  with  salt.  Take  a  good,  firm  head  of 
cabbage  which  is  white  and  tender,  shave  it  off  into  thin 
slices,  and  put  upon  the  bread,  allowing  ends  of  cabbage  to 


SANDWICHES.  185 

project  beyond  the  edges  of  the  bread.  Prepare  for  serving 
in  the  same  manner  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe,  fastening  with 
toothpicks. 

ROLLED  NUTMEATO  SANDWICHES. 

In  making  these  sandwiches,  be  careful  not  to  have  the 
bread  too  long,  or  the  slices  too  thick,  or  the  roll  may  be  too 
large.  Rolled  sandwiches  should  not  be  too  large  to  be 
readily  eaten  by  biting  through  from  the  end.  Cut  the  nut- 
meato  very  thin,  and  place  it  on  top  of  the  bread,  already 
spread  sparingly  with  nut  butter  and  sprinkled  with  salt. 
Carefully  roll,  and  fasten  by  means  of  toothpicks. 

SWEET  NUT  SANDWICHES. 

Take  good  figs,  thoroughly  wash,  and  grind  through  the 
nut  mill,  adjusting  quite  closely.  Add  enough  hot  water  to 
the  ground  figs  to  make  them  spread  easily.  Then  to  i  cup 
of  this  mixture,  add  i  tablespoonful  of  nut  butter  made  from 
walnuts,  hickory-nuts,  or  pecans.  Mix  well,  and  spread  upon 
thin  slices  of  brown  bread  cut  into  squares.  See  index  for 
Brown  Bread. 

NUTMEATO  AND  EGG  SANDWICHES. 

Take  i  cup  of  grated  nutmeato,  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  salt, 
and  celery  salt  to  suit  the  taste.  Sift  the  eggs  through  a  fine 
wire  sieve,  add  the  grated  nutmeato,  and  rub  smooth  with 
the  back  of  a  spoon.  Add  salt  and  celery  salt.  If  too  dry, 
moisten  with  a  small  quantity  of  nut  milk.  Cut  the  brown 
bread  into  quite  thin  slices,  and  with  a  cooky-cutter  just  large 
enough  to  take  in  all  the  slices  excepting  the  crust,  cut  them 
into  round  pieces,  and  spread  with  the  mixture.  The  slices 
should  afterward  be  put  together,  two  and  two,  in  order  to 
complete  the  sandwiches. 


1 86  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

NUTORA  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  the  bread  as  directed  in  the  previous  recipe,  and 
spread  with  nutora.  Silt  eelery  salt  on  top.  A  little  lemon- 
juice  may  be  added;  but  this  makes  the  sandwich  more  diffi- 
cult to  digest.  A  very  thin  slice  of  nutmeato  may  also  be 
put  between  the  slices  of  bread. 

NUTMEATO  SANDWICHES. 

Take  suitable  pieces  of  moist  bread,  or  buns  cut  into  thin 
slices,  and  spread  with  nut  butter  diluted  with  water  suffi- 
ciently to  spread  readily.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  and  place  upon 
the  whole  a  very  thin  slice  of  nutmeato.  Season  well  with 
celery  salt.  Place  on  the  slices  some  tender  pieces  of  lettuce, 
arranging  so  that  the  curly  edges  of  lettuce  will  extend  beyond 
the  bread.  Butter  another  slice  of  bread,  and  put  on  top. 
With  each  sandwich  serve  a  quarter  of  a  lemon.  Cut  lemons 
into  quarters  by  cutting  from  stern  to  blow  end.  Then,  with 
the  thumb  at  one  end  and  the  forefinger  at  the  other,  squeeze 
the  juice  out  upon  the  nutmeato  after  lifting  off  the  top  slice 
of  bread,  just  before  eating.  If  preferred,  the  juice  may  be 
put  upon  the  nutmeato  before  serving  the  sandwiches. 

EGG  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  together  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  i  teaspoonful  parsley, 
a  sprinkle  of  celery  salt,  i  teaspoonful  of  fresh  almond  meal, 
i  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice,  and  i  teaspoonful  of  crisp  cel- 
ery. Spread  on  slices  of  bread,  cut  any  shape  desired,  and 
serve.  If  the  eggs  are  sifted  through  a  sieve,  instead  of 
chopping,  the  mixture  is  much  easier  to  spread. 


SANDWICHES.  187 

BUTTERNUT  SANDWICHES. 

Spread  slices  of  bread  with  salad  dressing  as  given  below, 
sprinkle  with  chopped  butternuts,  place  two  slices  together, 
and  cut  any  shape  desired. 

DRESSING.- -  Boil  together  i  cup  of  diluted  lemon-juice, 
i  teaspoonful  sugar,  some  salt,  .\  cup  nut  cream.  Beat  sepa- 
rately the  white  and  yolk  of  i  egg;  after  which  mix  together 
and  pour  the  boiling  mixture  over  them,  whipping  them  all 
the  while.  Heat  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  until  it  changes 
to  a  creamy  consistency. 

GREEN  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  parsley  very  fine,  and  stir  it  into  the  dressing  given 
in  preceding  recipe.  Spread  upon  the  slices  of  bread,  and 
lay  between  each  sandwich  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf. 

HOT  APPLE  SANDWICHES. 

Take  i  cup  good  apple  sauce,  salt  it  slightly,  sweeten  to 
taste,  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  raw  nut  meal  which  has  pre- 
viously been  slightly  roasted  in  an  oven.  Spread  upon  thin 
slices  of  graham  bread,  put  the  slices  together,  two  and  two, 
and  serve  hot.  Other  breads  may  be  substituted  for  the 
graham. 

Experiment  on  other  combinations  of  nuts,  fruits,  and 
grains  used  as  fillings  for  sandwiches.  The  result  may  be 
something  far  surpassing  any  printed  recipes. 


CRACKERS. 


ORACKERS  can  never  be  very  successfully  made  in  the 
\-J  private  family,  as  it  requires  machinery  to  knead  them 
hard  enough,  and  also  to  roll  them  out  ;  but  if  one  can  not 
afford  to  buy  crackers,  very  good  ones  can  be  made  by 
following  out  the  recipes  here  given. 

In  making  crackers,  knead  in  all  the  flour  possible,  and 
knead  a  long  time.  A  man  has  better  success  than  a  woman, 
in  making  crackers,  as  strength  is  required  to  knead  thoroughly 
and  roll  out  the  dough  thin.  Any  shortening  desired  can  be 
used.  To  make  a  good  white  cracker,  the  almond,  pine-nut, 
or  some  of  the  cream  of  nuts,  must  be  used.  Raw  peanut 
cream  or  cocoanut  cream  makes  a  very  excellent  cracker. 
Crackers  should  be  thoroughly  baked  until  they  are  dry  all 
through.  Allow  them  to  cool  before  using. 

WHITE   CRACKERS. 

Take  i  pound  of  white  flour  (4  cups),  ^  cup  of  almond 
butter,  and  |  of  a  cup  of  water.  Dissolve  almond  butter  by 
adding  a  little  of  the  water  at  a  time,  and  working  well  until 
all  of  the  water  is  used.  Add  a  little  salt,  and  all  the  flour 
that  can  be  kneaded  in, —  about  4  cups,  although  much 
depends  upon  the  grade  of  flour  used.  Roll  out  until  it  is 
about  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  then  cut  into  squares, 
rounds,  or  diamonds,  as  desired  ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  thoroughly  done  through,  and  slightly  browned  on  top. 

Any  nut  butter  may  be  used  instead  of  the  almond  butter. 
These  crackers  are  excellent  for  soups. 
[188] 


CRACKERS.  I  Si .) 


WHITE  CRACKERS  NO.  2. 

Take  i  pound  of  white  flour  (4  cups),  i  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  i  cup  of  raw  peanut  cream  (see  index).  The  cream 
should  not  be  too  thick,  or  the  crackers  will  be  too  short  and 
rich.  Knead  in  all  the  flour  possible,  and  continue  kneading 
for  a  long  time.  Roll  out  to  a  thickness  of  about  one-eighth 
inch,  and  cut  into  any  desired  shape. 

Other  kinds  of  cream  may  be  substituted  for  the  peanut 
cream,-- as  cocoanut  cream,  hickory  cream,  chufa  cream,  or 
pine-nut  cream. 

GRAHAM  CRACKERS. 

Take  i  pound  (4  cups)  graham  flour,  or,  if  preferable,  1 1 
cups  of  graham  flour  and  2|  cups  of  white  flour  ;  |  of  a  cup 
of  water,  \  cup  sugar,  i  teaspoonful  salt,  and  \\  cups  of  nut 
meal.  Put  together  the  sugar,  salt,  nut  meal,  and  water. 
Mix  the  two  kinds  of  flour  well,  kneading  in  all  the  flour 
possible.  Work  thoroughly  for  ten  minutes,  and  roll  one 
fifth  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  into  any  shape  desired,  and  bake. 

Any  nut  meal  may  be  used,  as  almond,  peanut,  pine-nut, 
or  hickory-nut. 

OATMEAL   CRACKERS. 

Take  i  pound  of  oatmeal  (not  the  rolled  oats),  i|  cups 
of  water,  \  cup  of  sugar,  i^  cups  of  nut  meal,  and  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Mix  the  water,  salt,  sugar,  and  nut  meal 
together,  and  knead  in  all  the  oatmeal  possible.  If  desired, 
one-third  white  flour  and  two-thirds  oatmeal  may  be  used. 
Any  nut  meal  may  be  utilized,  as  peanut,  almond,  pine-nut, 
or  Brazil-nut. 


IQO  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


OATMEAL  CRACKERS  NO.  2. 

Take  i  pound  of  rolled  oats,  i  cup  of  white  flour,  I  ]  cups 
of  cold  water,  \  cup  of  sugar,  and  i\  cups  of  nut  meal.  Mix 
the  flour,  rolled  oats,  and  nut  meal  together,  adding  the  salt 
and  sugar  to  the  water.  Knead  the  water  into  the  Hour, 
working  thoroughly,  and  making  the  dough  very  stiff.  Finish 
the  same  as  other  crackers. 


OATMEAL  CRACKERS  NO.  3. 

Take  2  cups  of  rolled  oats,  i  cup  of  white  flour,  \  cup  of 
raw  peanut  cream,  ^  of  a  cup  of  cold  water,  \  of  a  cup  of 
sugar,  and  a  small  quantity  of  salt.  Mix  cream,  water,  sugar, 
and  salt  together.  Mix  the  flour  and  rolled  oats,  and  stir 
into  the  water  and  cream,  kneading  in  all  the  flour  possible. 
Finish  the  same  as  other  crackers. 

The  cream  of  other  nuts  may  be  substituted  for  raw  pea- 
nut cream,  if  preferable. 

FRUIT  CRACKERS. 

Make  a  dough  as  directed  for  Rolls  No.  2  or  No.  3  (see  in- 
dex). Divide  the  dough  into  halves,  and  roll  out  each  half  until 
a  little  less  than  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Spread  one  half 
of  the  dough  with  raisins  which  have  been  seeded  and  ground 
through  the  mill;  then  place  the  corresponding  half  of  the 
dough  on  top.  Press  together  with  a  rolling-pin,  rolling  quite 
hard,  and  perforate  part  way  through,  at  frequent  intervals, 
with  a  fork.  Cut  into  squares,  or  any  desired  shape,  and 
bake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven  until  of  a  light-brown  color. 

Ground  figs  or  dates  may  be  used  in  place  of  ground 
seeded  raisins,  if  preferred. 


CRACKERS.  IQI 

FRUIT  CRACKERS  NO.  2. 

Make  a  dough  as  for  white  crackers.  Cut  the  dough  into 
equal  parts,  and  roll  out  a  little  less  than  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick.  Spread  one  part  with  seeded  raisins  which  have 
been  ground  through  the  mill,  or  ground  figs  or  dates,  after 
which  place  the  other  piece  of  dough  upon  the  fruit.  Press 
together  \vith  a  rolling-pin,  and  perforate  part  way  through, 
short  distances  apart,  with  a  fork.  Cut  into  squares,  and 
bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

CROUTONS. 

Something  which  requires  mastication  should  always  be 
eaten  with  soup.  A  very  palatable  as  well  as  economical 
article  is  prepared  as  follows:  Cut  stale  bread  into  cubes  of 
convenient  size,  place  on  tins,  and  toast  in  the  oven  until 


light  brown. 


CORN  BREAD  WITH  EGGS. 


Chop  \  cup  of  nut  butter,  either  almond  or  peanut,  with 
i  quart  of  corn-meal.  Add  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  quart  of 
cold  nut  milk,  and  the  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Beat  all  to  a  smooth 
batter  ;  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs,  pour 
into  an  oiled  baking  pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half 
an  hour,  or  until  a  knitting-needle  run  into  the  thickest  part 
can  be  withdrawn  clean.  The  batter  can  also  be  baked  in 
gem  irons  or  oiled  earthen  cups. 

GRANOSE  WITH  HONEY. 

Take  some  granose  and  heat  in  the  oven  until  nice  and 
crisp,  then  take  some  honey  in  a  spoon  and  slowly  let  it  drip 
over  the  granose,  tossing  it  up  at  the  same  time.  Serve  dry  ; 
it  has  a  taste  like  popcorn  balls. 


192  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

Malt  extract  may  be  used  in  this  recipe  instead  of  the 
honey,  also  any  kind  of  fruit  juice --cranberry  juice  being 
especially  nice. 

ZWIEOLA  AND  HOT  CREAM. 

Put  the  ^wieola  into  individual  dishes,  and  pour  over  it  a 
thin  peanut  cream  with  a  little  sugar  and  a  very  little  salt 
added.  The  cream  should  be  hot  to  make  it  nice.  Serve 
as  a  breakfast  dish. 

RICE  CAKES. 

Take  i  cup  of  cold  cooked  rice,  )2  cup  of  nut  milk,  i  egg, 
salt  to  taste.  Beat  the  rice,  milk,  and  yolk  of  the  egg  until 
they  bubble,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly-beaten  whites,  and  bake 
immediately  in  cakes  on  a  soapstone  griddle.  Serve  like  any 
griddle-cake. 

The  soapstone  is  the  best  for  those  who  wish  to  make 
griddle-cakes  without  using  grease  of  any  kind. 

PANCAKES. 

Take  \  cup  of  corn-meal,  i  \  cups  of  white  flour,  2  cups 
of  nut  milk,  salt  to  suit  the  taste,  and  4  eggs.  Mix  the  corn- 
meal  and  flour,  add  the  salt  and  water,  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Separate  the  eggs,  bc.it  the  yolks  until  thick,  beat  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  fold  into  the  batter.  Drop  a  spoonful  on 
a  very  hot  soapstone,  and  spread  it  around  with  the  spoon  ; 
when  browned  on  one  side,  turn.  Serve  hot  with  maple 
syrup.  Cakes  can  be  baked  on  a  common  cake  griddle  with- 
out grease  by  rubbing  the  griddle  each  time  with  salt.  It 
will  give  a  nice  brown  coat  without  the  objectionable  grease 
and  smoke,  which  is  so  annoying. 


CRACKERS.  193 

YEAST  PANCAKES. 

Set  a  sponge  at  night  of  i  pint  of  water,  |  cake  of  com- 
pressed yeast,  or  }2  cup  of  liquid  yeast,  and  white  or  buck- 
wheat flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Cover,  and  put 
it  where  it  will  keep  warm.  In  the  morning  it  will  be  light 
and  foamy  ;  add  salt,  and  if  too  thick,  add  warm  water 
enough  to  make  it  of  the  right  consistency  ;  beat  it  in  well, 
and  set  where  it  will  have  a  temperature  of  eighty  degrees. 
In  an  hour  they  will  be  ready  to  bake.  Bake  on  a  soapstone, 
or  they  can  be  baked  on  an  ordinary  pancake  griddle  by  rub- 
bing the  griddle,  after  each  baking,  with  salt  and  then  brush- 
in-  ;ill  the  salt  to  one  end.  When  baked  in  this  way,  there 
is  no  smoke,  and  the  cakes  arc  not  greasy,  but  they  have  a 
nice  brown  coat. 

POTATO  CAKES. 

Take  cold  mashed  potatoes  left  over  from  the  previous 
day,  form  into  small  cakes  with  the  hands,  roll  in  nut  meal, 
and  brown  on  the  soapstone. 

POPOVERS. 

Take  2  cups  of  nut  milk,  2  cups  of  whole-wheat  flour, 
i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Beat  the 
yolks  until  they  are  thick  ;  stir  the  flour  into  the  milk,  and 
then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Lastly  add  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  which  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake 
in  hot,  oiled  gem  irons.  If  these  are  not  at  hand,  earthen 
cups  set  in  a  pan,  and  put  in  the  oven  until  hot,  will  answer  ; 
then  remove,  oil,  pour  the  batter  into  the  cups,  but  only 
about  one  third  or  one  half  full,  then  return  to  a  quick  oven, 
and  bake.  \Ylu-n  nicely  browned,  serve  with  nut  butter  or 
some  nice  malt  extract. 
13 


FRUIT. 


T^RUITS  consist  chiefly  of  water,  and  for  this  reason  are 
L  scarcely  ever  looked  upon  as  nutrients.  They  contain  a 
small  amount  of  nitrogenous  elements  and  agreeable  acids, 
which  are  very  useful  in  keeping  the  vital  machinery  in  good 
working  order.  That  they  contain  more  nutriment  than  is 
generally  supposed  is  proved  by  the  fact  that  the  natives  of 
some  countries  live  almost  wholly  upon  fruit.  The  Arab,  as 
well  as  his  camel,  lives  principally  upon  dates.  In  some 
countries  the  inhabitants  live  almost  exclusively  upon  bana- 
nas. Undoubtedly  fruit  was  the  principal  article  of  food 
eaten  by  Adam  and  Eve  while  they  remained  in  the  Garden 
of  Eden. 

The  large  amount  of  water  that  fruits  contain  makes  them 
an  excellent  article  of  food  for  summer,  when  the  system 
requires  more  liquid,  especially  in  dry  countries  where  the 
water  supply  is  scarce  or  impure.  The  water  of  fruits  is  abso- 
lutely pure,  having  been  distilled  by  heaven's  own  process, 
and  then  canned  and  sealed  by  a  skin  that  is  impervious  to 
germs.  There  is  no  danger  of  contamination  from  drinking 
it,  as  long  as  the  skin  is  not  punctured  in  any  way.  The 
juices  of  the  watermelon,  orange,  lemon,  and  lime  are  among 
the  best  for  drinking,  and  can  be  taken  at  any  time,  as  they 
contain  no  nutriment  excepting  a  little  sugar;  but  the  juice 
only  should  be  taken,  as  the  pulp,  or  cellulose,  of  fruit  is 
indigestible. 

But  some  fruits  are  very  valuable  as  nutrients,  and  it  is 
possible  to  live  entirely  upon  them;  among  these  are  the 
prune,  apple,  date,  fig,  banana,  and  raisin. 


FRUIT.  195 

Another  very  important  element  of  fruits  is  their  acids, 
which  are  valuable  on  account  of  their  influence  upon  certain 
functions  of  the  body;  for  example,  upon  the  kidneys,  acting 
as  a  natural  diuretic;  and  also  as  a  natural  laxative,  though 
not  having  the  same  effect  as  a  laxative  medicine,  for  fruit 
only  produces  a  natural  condition,  and  if  the  system  is  already 
in  a  natural  condition,  it  has  no  effect.  Perhaps  the  most 
important  point  in  the  use  of  fruits  is  the  effect  their  acids 
have  upon  germs.  It  has  been  proved  by  repeated  experi- 
ments and  analysis  that  germs  will  not  grow  in  fruit  juice  ; 
therefore,  the  juices  of  fruits  are  natural  disinfectants. 

This  does  not  apply  to  the  juice  of  the  lernon,  lime,  and 
orange  alone,  but  the  acids  of  all  fruits  are  disinfectants  to  a 
certain  extent,  some  more  than  others.  The  juice  of  one 
lemon  in  two  glasses  of  water,  if  left  standing  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes,  will  thoroughly  disinfect  it.  Thus  fruit  can 
be  of  great  assistance  to  travelers,  as  the  water  on  cars  and 
in  waiting-rooms  is  often  so  impure  that  it  would  be  danger- 
ous to  partake  of  it. 

Three  different  kinds  of  acids  are  found  in  fruits:  citric 
acid,  malic  acid,  and  tartaric  acid.  Citric  acid  is  found  in 
lemons,  limes,  grapes,  and  oranges;  and  malic  acid  is  found 
in  almost  all  acid  fruits,  but  more  abundantly  in  apples,  cher- 
ries, plums,  and  pears.  Tartaric  acid  is  found  in  considerable 
quantities  in  the  grape,  and  is  present  in  small  quantities  in 
other  fruits.  In  canned  grapes,  it  is  often  found  condensed 
in  small  chunks  in  the  bottom  of  the  can.  In  pie-plant, 
there  is  a  poisonous  acid  called  oxalic  acid  ;  for  this  reason 
pie-plant  is  unsafe  to  use;  people  have  been  made  seriously 
ill  by  eating  its  leaves  for  greens.  A  very  small  per  cent, 
of  oxalic  acid  is  also  found  in  the  tomato;  for  this  reason 
it  is  not  so  good  a  food  as  some  fruits,  although  it  contains 
such  a  small  amount  that  it  is  not  usually  felt. 


196  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

The  acids  of  fruits  are  digestible;  that  is,  they  change 
when  entering  the  system,  so  that  they  do  not  have  the  effect 
that  common  acids  do.  Another  element  of  fruits  is  the 
sugar  which  they  contain.  Some  fruits  contain  a  great  deal 
more  than  others.  Figs,  dates,  and  raisins  contain  the  most; 
but  grapes,  cherries,  currants,  and  apples  contain  quite  a  per- 
centage, although  the  acid  hides  it  from  the  taste  in  some  of 
the  fruits,  as  is  the  case  in  the  cherry  and  currant.  Some 
fruits,  as  the  plum,  apricot,  and  peach,  contain  very  little 
sugar. 

The  sugar  which  is  found  in  fruits  is  the  sweetest  of  all 
sugars,  and  in  its  natural  state,  when  eaten  with  the  fruit, 
is  easy  of  digestion,  being  just  what  the  system  requires. 
Honey,  which  is  nothing  but  the  sugar  of  fruits,  because  it  is 
taken  from  the  blossoms,  would  be  a  much  better  and  sweeter 
sugar  than  cane-sugar,  if  it  were  not  adulterated.  Sometimes 
bee  keepers  feed  their  bees  upon  a  cheap  grade  of  molasses, 
poor  sugar,  etc. ;  and  sometimes  when  the  blossoms  of  whole- 
some plants  and  trees  are  scarce,  bees  will  gather  honey  from 
the  flowers  of  weeds,  or  tobacco  plants,  and  even  collect  the 
honey  dew  from  oak  leaves,  which  is  only  a  secretion  of  an 
insect.  If  the  pure  honey  from  flowers  could  be  obtained,  it 
would  be  better  than  cane-sugar;  but  even  then  it  would  con- 
tain some  of  the  pollen  of  the  flowers  and  some  germs. 

There  is  another  constituent  of  fruits,  \vhich,  although 
it  does  not  add  to  the  nutritive  value,  holds  the  juices  and 
determines  the  shape  of  the  fruit,  and  that  is  the  cellulose  or 
woody  fiber.  In  some  fruits,  this  is  very  thin  and  easily 
broken  up,  as  in  the  strawberry,  but  in  others,  it  is  quite 
tough,  woody,  and  indigestible,  as  in  the  orange.  It  is  better 
to  reject  the  cellulose  of  such  fruits.  For  sick  people  and 
those  having  weak  stomachs,  fruit  juice  is  best,  and  can  often 
be  eaten  where  the  fruit  can  not. 


FRUIT.  197 

The  use  of  fruit  for  curing  disease  is  by  no  means  a  new 
idea.  Pliny,  the  Roman  naturalist,  who  perished  in  the  erup- 
tion that  destroyed  Pompeii,  mentions  the  grape-cure  in  his 
day.  At  the  present  time,  the  grape-cure  is  used  quite  exten- 
sively in  France,  Switzerland,  and  Germany,  and  has  been 
tried  to  some  extent  in  California.  But  curative  properties 
are  not  peculiar  to  the  grape  alone,  as  there  are  the  -straw- 
berry_-cure,  the  peach-cure,  the  cherry-cure,  and  the  apple- 
cure. 

The  reasons  why  fruit  is  so  beneficial  in  cases  of  disease, 
are  as  follows  :  First,  because  they  are  disinfectants,  clear- 
ing out  the  germs  from  the  stomach  and  alimentary  canal  ; 
second,  the}'  break  up  the  waste  substances  so  they  can  be 
eliminated  by  the  kidneys. 

Fruits  are  of  great  value  in  the  treatment  of  fevers,  sick 
headache,  nervous  headache,  biliousness,  Bright's  disease, 
obesity,  consumption,  and  intestinal  disorders.  Fruits  are 
eaten  with  greater  benefit,  if  eaten  alone.  If  other  foods  are 
eaten  at  the  same  meal,  great  care  should  be  taken  in  the 
combination.  Fruit  and  vegetables  do  not  combine  well ; 
fruits  and  eggs  do  not  unless  the  eggs  are  raw ;  neither  do 
very  acid  fruits  combine  well  with  grains,  as  the  acids,  if  in 
too  great  a  quantity,  hinder  the  digestion  of  starch. 

Fruits  contain  an  abundance  of  water,  a  meager  supply  of 
albumen,  sugar,  acid,  and  cellulose  ;  but  no  fats,  except  in 
the  olive,  and  only  a  very  small  amount  of  starch,  except  in 
the  green  fruit.  But  fats,  while  nearly  absent  in  fruits,  are 
just  what  nuts  can  supply.  In  cold  climates  especially,  the 
fats  are  very  essential  for  producing  heat  in  the  body.  The 
system  can  get  along  better  without  starch  than  fats.  Nuts 
and  fruits  therefore  make  an  ideal  diet. 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


APPLES. 

The  apple  is  the  fleshy  fruit  of  a  tree  belonging  to  the 
rose  family  ( Kosucfic).  The  calyx  of  the  flower  becomes 
thick,  pulpy,  and  edible  at  maturity,  enclosing  the  seed-pod 
with  seeds. 

The  apple  has  been  cultivated  and  highly  valued  as  a  food 
from  very  early  times.  The  Greeks  and  the  Romans  used 
the  apple  very  extensively.  Apples  may  be  eaten  raw, 
stewed,  or  baked.  If  they  are  eaten  raw,  they  should  be 
ripe  and  mellow,  and  care  should  be  taken  to  masticate 
them  thoroughly. 

BANANAS. 

The  banana  is  the  fruit  of  a  large,  herbaceous  plant, 
closely  related  to  the  plantain,  and  cultivated  in  most  tropical 
countries  for  its  fruit,  which  grows  in  clusters  of  more  than  a 
hundred  finger-shaped  berries,  upon  a  very  large  spike,  or 
stem.  When  ripe,  the  rind  encloses  a  nutritious  and  seedless 
pulp,  which  forms  the  principal  article  of  diet  of  the  natives, 
and  is  largely  exported  to  cooler  climates. 

The  United  States  imported  15,000,000  bunches  during 
the  year  1897,  valued  at  $20,000,000. 

Bananas  are  very  nutritious,  a  pound  of  good,  ripe  bananas 
being  almost  equal  in  nutriment  to  a  pound  of  beefsteak. 
Bananas  contain  about  five  per  cent,  of  albuminous  elements, 
and  twenty  per  cent,  of  carbonaceous. 

The  banana  can  be  dried  and  made  into  flour  ;  in  this 
form,  it  has  about  twenty  per  cent,  of  albumen.  The  ripe 
banana  contains  only  a  small  percentage  of  starch,  and  that 
is  very  easy  of  digestion.  The  unripe  banana  contains  more 
starch,  and  should  be  cooked  before  being  eaten. 


FRUIT.  199 

CHERRIES. 

The  cherry  is  the  fruit  of  a  small  tree  or  shrub  belonging 
to  the  genus  Primus.  The  fruit  is  smooth  and  bloomless, 
enclosing  a  small,  smooth  seed.  There  are  many  varieties  of 
the  cherry,  both  of  the  wild  and  the  tame.  The  sour  cherry 
contains  about  nine  per  cent,  of  sugar,  but  this  is  almost  en- 
tirely disguised  by  the  acid  which  it  contains.  The  sweet 
cherry  contains  about  eleven  per  cent,  of  sugar.  An  eminent 
physician  once  cured  a  patient  who  had  chronic  diarrhea,  by 
a  diet  of  ripe  cherries.  This  treatment  was  continued  for 
several  weeks. 

CRANBERRIES. 

The  cranberry  is  the  fruit  of  a  small,  slender  vine  growing 
in  marshy  places.  The  fruit  is  round  or  oblong  and  of  a 
bright  red  color.  The  flesh  is  quite  hard  and  firm,  and  is 
covered  with  a  thick,  waxy  skin,  which  is  germ-  and  water- 
proof. For  this  reason,  they  are  long  keepers  ;  freezing 
spoils  them  if  they  are  allowed  to  thaw,  but  if  they  are  kept 
frozen  until  used,  they  are  just  as  good.  The  skin  is  quite 
hard  of  digestion,  and  those  having  weak  stomachs,  would 
better  reject  them.  The  cranberry  is  quite  acid,  containing 
two  and  three-tenths  per  cent.  It  is  not  a  very  nutritious 
fruit,  having  a  nutritive  value  of  only  four  and  one-tenth 
per  cent. 

The  juice  of  the  cranberry  is  excellent  in  cases  of  fever, 
diluted  with  water  and  used  as  a  drink.  It  is  also  good  in 
coloring  puddings,  frostings,  soups,  etc. 

CURRANTS. 

This  fruit  is  indigenous  to  America,  Europe,  and  Asia. 
It  probably  derives  its  name  from  Corinth,  where  it  was 
grown  extensively.  It  is  a  small,  round  fruit,  red,  white,  and 


2OO  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

sometimes  black,  growing  in  long  clusters,  or  racemes,  on 
low,  thornless,  scraggly  shrubs.  The  fruit  is  quite  sour,  con- 
taining two  and  two-tenths  per  cent,  of  acid  ;  but  it  also  con- 
tains six  and  four-tenths  per  cent,  of  sugar,  so  that  it  is  very 
palatable  eaten  in  the  raw  state  without  the  addition  of  sugar. 
The  juice  of  the  currant  makes  a  very  pleasant  drink,  when 
diluted  with  water,  and  one  that  is  very  beneficial  in  cases 
of  fever.  It  is  also  excellent  for  making  jelly,  as  it  contains 
considerable  pectose.  or  the  jelly-producing  element  of  fruit. 

DATES. 

The  date  is  the  fruit  of  the  date-palm  ;  the  name  is 
derived  from  dactyl,  so  named  from  its  shape.  Botanically, 
it  is  called  Pliccnix  dactylifcra,  and  it  grows  plentifully  in 
the  dry  regions  of  Asia  and  Africa.  The  trees  have  lofty 
trunks  with  terminal  feathery  foliage.  The  fruit  is  borne  at 
the  base  of  the  leaves,  each  tree  yielding  from  one  hundred 
to  three  hundred  pounds. 

What  rice  is  to  the  inhabitants  of  some  portions  of  Asia, 
dates  are  to  the  people  of  Africa.  It  forms  the  chief  article 
of  food  in  nearly  all  Africa  north  of  the  equator,  as  well 
as  in  Arabia.  The  Arab  not  only  eats  them  himself,  but 
feeds  them  to  his  camel  and  his  horse.  The  date-palm  not 
only  furnishes  the  fruit,  but  the  tree  supplies  building  mate- 
rial and  clothing  to  the  native.  The  sap  of  the  tree  is 
very  sweet,  and  is  often  made  into  a  sugar  ;  but  it  is  some- 
times unwisely  allowed  to  ferment,  and  is  then  called  date 
wine. 

The  fruit  of  the  date  is  very  palatable  and  nutritious.  In 
its  dried  state,  as  it  is  obtained  in  the  market  of  this  country, 
it  contains  a  total  nutritive  value  of  sixty-seven  per  cent.  ; 
of  this  fifty-eight  per  cent,  is  sugar,  and  nine  per  cent,  is 


FRUIT.  2O I 

albumen.  On  account  of  its  sweetness,  it  is  good  to  use  with 
acid  fruits,  and  it  may  also  be  used  with  good  effect  in  sweeten- 
ing cakes  and  puddings  instead  of  sugar. 

FIGS. 

The  fig  is  the  fruit  of  a  tree  botanically  called  Ficus  Carica. 
The  trees  are  small,  with  large,  green  leaves,  and  pear-shaped 
fruit,  which  in  color  varies  from  a  dark  purple  to  a  yellowish 
tinge.  When  ripe,  the  cultivated  fig  has  a  soft,  sweet  pulp, 
filled  with  very  small  seeds,  and  is  much  esteemed  for  food, 
both  when  it  is  fresh  and  when  dried  or  preserved.  It  has 
been  used  for  food  from  very  ancient  times,  perhaps  from  the 
time  of  Adam,  and  is  frequently  mentioned  throughout  the 
sacred  writings. 

It  is  also  used  in  the  preparation  of  laxatives.  In  our 
markets,  it  is  sold  only  in  its  dried  state  ;  but  even  when 
dried,  it  is  excellent  for  puddings  and  sauces  ;  it  also  com- 
bines well  with  nuts.  It  contains  fifty  per  cent,  of  sugar, 
and  four  per  cent,  of  albumen. 

GRAPES. 

The  grape  is  the  fruit  of  a  vine  belonging  to  the  genus 
Vitis,  of  the  Vine  family  Vitace<z.  It  has  long  tendrils  that 
aid  it  in  climbing  trellises  ;  its  leaves  are  large  and  glossy 
green.  The  flowers  are  very  small  and  fragrant,  appearing  in 
the  spring  before  the  leaves.  The  fruit  is  borne  in  large  clus- 
ters, varying  in  size  and  color,  as  well  as  in  the  amount  of 
nutritive  elements  which  they  contain.  Some  grapes  contain 
as  high  as  twenty-two  per  cent,  of  sugar,  and  others  very 
much  less.  The  same  is  also  true  of  the  albuminous  ele- 
ments. One  pound  of  the  Malaga  grapes  is  said  to  contain 
as  much  albumen  as  an  egg,  and  about  fifteen  per  cent,  of 


202  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

sugar.  From  this  we  see  that  the  grape  is  nutritious,  although 
the  greater  part  of  it  is  water  ;  this  fact,  however,  makes  it 
better  for  a  summer  food  and  more  desirable  for  fever 
patients. 

The  grape-cure  has  been  in  use  for  many  hundred  years, 
and  is  considered  very  beneficial  in  some  forms  of  dyspepsia. 
When  a  diet  of  grapes  only  is  used,  three  or  four  meals  in  a 
day  are  not  too  many.  The  raisin,  which  is  a  sweet  variety 
of  dried  grape,  is  very  nutritious  and  useful  in  preparing 
many  foods.  They  arc  excellent  if  ground  and  mixed  with 
nut  butter. 

GOOSEBERRIES. 

The  gooseberry  is  the  fruit  of  a  shrub  belonging  to  the 
same  genus  as  the  currant.  The  bush  is  a  thorny  shrub,  and 
in  its  wild  state  yields  a  prickly  berry  ;  but  the  fruit  of  the 
cultivated  sort  is  smooth  and  luscious.  They  are  generally 
used  in  their  green  state,  when  they  contain  malic  and  citric 
acids,  and  have  a  nutritive  value  of  five  or  six  per  cent.  The 
juice  when  diluted  with  water  makes  an  excellent  drink  for 
summer. 

HUCKLEBERRIES. 

The  huckleberry  is  the  fruit  of  a  small  bush  or  shrub  be- 
longing to  the  Heath  family  (Ericacece).  They  are  also  called 
whortleberries  and  blueberries.  There  are  several  species, 
the  two  principal  ones  in  this  country  being  the  high-bush  and 
the  low-bush  huckleberry.  There  is  not  much  difference 
in  the  fruit  of  the  two  kinds.  The  berry  is  almost  black,  some- 
times covered  with  a  light-blue  powder.  The  inside  is  light 
colored,  and  contains  many  small  seeds.  It  is  quite  mild  in 
flavor,  and  is  excellent  for  those  who  can  not  eat  acid 
foods. 


FRUIT.  2O3 

I 

LEMONS. 

The  lemon  is  the  fruit  of  a  tropical  or  subtropical  tree, 
belonging  to  the  Orange  family  (Aurantiacece).  It  is  oblong 
in  shape,  with  a  protruding  point  at  each  end.  The  fruit  is 
from  two  to  four  inches  long,  and  when  ripe  is  of  a  bright 
yellow  color,  slightly  tinged  with  green.  It  contains  no 
nutriment  to  speak  of  ;  the  juice  is  very  acid,  and  for  this 
reason  is  highly  valued  for  making  drinks  in  hot  weather, 
being  especially  valuable  for  fever  patients.  The  citric  acid 
which  the  lemon  contains  acts  as  a  disinfectant  in  the  stom- 
ach, killing  the  germs,  and  doing  away  with  stomach  washes. 
Very  much  lemon-juice  should  not  be  taken  at  meal-time,  as 
acids,  if  taken  in  any  considerable  quantity,  hinder  the  diges- 
tion of  starch,  by  changing  the  saliva,  which  is  alkaline,  to 
an  acid.  For  this  reason  lemon  pies,  puddings,  cakes,  and  all 
other  foods  where  starch  is  combined  with  the  lemon,  are  not 
to  be  recommended.  But  egg-nog,  made  of  the  white  of  the 
egg  and  lemon-juice  is  all  right,  as  the  white  of  the  egg  con- 
tains only  albumen. 

LIMES. 

The  lime  is  the  fruit  of  a  tree  belonging  to  the  same 
family  as  the  lemon,  and  very  much  resembling  it  excepting 
it  is  much  smaller.  In  composition  it  is  very  much  like  the 
lemon,  and  can  be  used  in  the  same  way.  The  lime  has  been 
celebrated  in  all  ages  for  the  fragrance  of  its  flowers  and  the 
excellence  of  the  honey  made  from  them.  British  sailors  are 
furnished  a  weekly  allowance  of  the  extract  of  lime  or  lemon 
as  a  preventive  of  scurvy.  It  is  also  used  as  a  medicine  in 
some  forms  of  dyspepsia. 


204  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

MELONS. 

The  melon  is  not  really  a  fruit,  but  in  composition  is  as 
nearly  allied  to  fruit  as  to  vegetables. 

It  belongs  to  the  Gourd  family,  and  consists  principally  of 
water,  having  no  nutriment  except  a  little  sugar.  The  pulp, 
or  fibrous  portion,  is  indigestible,  and  should  be  rejected. 
The  juice  forms  a  pure  and  healthful  drink,  being  free  from 
disease  germs,  if  the  melon  is  sound  ;  but  it  is  better  to  eat  it 
at  night  or  between  meals,  as  any  considerable  quantity  taken 
at  meal-time  would  dilute  the  gastric  juice,  the  same  as  would 
other  liquids. 

ORANGES. 

The  orange  is  the  fruit  of  a  tree  very  closely  allied  to  the 
lemon  and  lime,  but  having  a  much  larger  and  sweeter  fruit. 
In  nutritive  value  it  is  very  low,  only  having  six  to  eight  per 
cent,  of  sugar  ;  the  remainder  is  water  in  a  very  pure  form, 
enclosed  in  a  tough  pulp  which  is  wholly  indigestible  and 
should  never  be  swallowed.  Physicians  tell  us  that  there  is 
no  harm  in  drinking  an  orange  before  going  to  bed. 

t 

PINEAPPLES. 

The  pineapple  is  the  fruit  of  a  tropical  plant  indigenous  to 
South  America.  The  plant  only  grows  a  few  inches  high, 
and  is  surmounted  by  a  densely  packed  flower  pike,  which 
becomes  the  fruit.  The  leaves  of  the  plant  are  coarse, 
fibrous,  and  thick,  with  prickly  edges.  The  fruit  consists  of 
the  consolidation  of  the  raceme  of  berries  with  a  bunch  of 
leaves  at  the  top,  which  is  called  the  "crown." 

When  left  on  the  plant  until  it  is  thoroughly  ripe,  it  is  very 
soft,  juicy,  and  of  a  delicious  sweet  flavor  ;  but  as  they  are 
obtained  in  the  markets  here,  they  are  too  green  and  woody 


FRUIT.  2O5 

to  be  easily  digested,  and  only  the  juice  should  be  used. 
Cooking,  however,  makes  them  more  digestible.  The  pine- 
apple is  low  in  nutritive  value,  but  it  contains  a  digestive 
element  very  similar  to  pepsin,  and  is  therefore  an  excellent 
medicine  in  some  forms  of  dyspepsia.  It  also  contains  an 
acid  which  is  a  disinfectant,  and  the  juice  is  considered  an 
excellent  gargle  for  the  throat  in  diphtheria. 

PEACHES. 

The  peach  is  the  fruit  of  a  tree  belonging  to  the  Prunus 
family.  It  opens  its  blossoms,  which  are  rose-colored,  early 
in  the  spring  before  the  leaves  appear.  The  trees  grow  from 
eight  to  twenty  feet  high,  and  have  lanceolate  leaves.  The 
fruit  grows  from  one  to  three  inches  in  diameter,  having  a 
yellow,  white,  or  reddish  skin  covered  with  a  thick  woolly 
down.  The  fruit  is  juicy  and  highly  flavored.  It  has  seven 
per  cent,  of  albumen,  four  and  five-tenths  per  cent,  of  sugar, 
nine  per  cent,  of  acids,  and  seven  per  cent,  of  salts  ;  so  it 
has  not  a  very  high  nutritive  value. 

PLUMS. 

The  plum  belongs  to  the  same  family  as  the  peach,  and 
resembles  it  in  growth  and  leaves.  The  fruit  is  very  similar 
in  composition,  but  it  has  a  smooth  skin.  The  plum  tree  is 
more  hardy  than  the  peach,  and  will  grow  and  produce  fruit 
where  the  peach  will  not. 

PRUNES. 

The  prune  is  only  a  sweet  variety  of  the  plum,  which  has 
been  dried.  When  thoroughly  cooked,  they  are  very  nice, 
and  are  sometimes  eaten  for  a  laxative. 


2O6  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

PEARS. 

The  pear  is  the  fruit  of  a  tree  called  Pyrus  coinniunis,  and 
belongs  to  the  Rose  family  (Rosacece].  The  fruit  is  quite 
large  and  bell-shaped,  being  the  largest  at  the  blow  end,  and 
tapering  toward  the  stem.  When  ripe,  it  is  very  juicy  and 
delicious,  but  contains  considerable  cellulose,  or  woody  matter. 
It  contains  four  per  cent,  of  albumen,  eight  and  two-tenths 
per  cent,  of  malic  acid,  three  and  three-tenths  per  cent,  of 
pectose,  and  three  per  cent,  of  salts,  making  a  total  nutritive 
value  of  twelve  and  four-tenths  per  cent. 

QUINCES. 

The  quince  is  the  fruit  of  a  shrub,  or  small  tree,  belonging 
to  the  Rose  family  (Rosaccce}.  The  fruit  is  from  two  and  one- 
half  to  three  inches  in  diameter;  it  is  quite  hard,  acid,  pleas- 
ant flavored,  and  fragrant,  and  is  of  a  yellowish  green  color. 
It  is  never  eaten  in  the  uncooked  state  in  this  country, 
because  the  summers  are  not  long  enough  for  it  to  ripen;  but 
in  Crete,  its  native  home,  it  ripens,  when  it  is  much  easier  of 
digestion. 

RASPBERRIES. 

The  raspberry  is  the  fruit  of  a  trailing  bush  that  very 
closely  resembles  the  blackberry.  There  are  many  varieties 
of  the  raspberry;  among  them  are  the  red,  the  black,  and  the 
white.  They  are  a  thimble-shaped  berry,  containing  many 
seeds,  which  are  surrounded  by  a  juicy  pulp  that  is  subacid 
and  has  a  very  pleasant  flavor.  The  raspberry  is  used  in 
making  jellies,  jams,  wine,  vinegar,  and  brandy,  besides  being 
used  in  its  uncooked  state.  The  berries  are  sometimes  given 
for  an  astringent,  and  are  very  beneficial. 


FRUIT.  2O7 

STRAWBERRIES. 

The  strawberry  is  the  fruit  of  a  low-growing  vine  belong- 
ing to  the  Rose  family  (Rosacea*}.  It  is  the  most  widely  dis- 
tributed of  all  the  fruit-bearing  plants,  growing  in  very  cold 
as  well  as  in  tropical  countries.  The  fruit  is  the  fleshy  recep- 
tacle, which  becomes  very  juicy  and  edible,  and  is  of  a  bright 
red  color.  The  fruit  contains  very  little  cellulose  and  is  there- 
fore easy  of  digestion.  The  strawberry  contains  the  nutritive 
elements  in  the  right  proportion,  and  will  therefore  sustain  life 
without  other  food,  if  a  sufficient  amount  is  eaten.  It  con- 
tains eighty-seven  per  cent,  of  water,  and  one  and  one-tenth 
per  cent,  of  albumen,  six  and  three-tenths  per  cent,  of  sugar, 
five-tenths  per  cent,  of  fats,  nine-tenths  per  cent,  of  malic 
acid,  five-tenths  per  cent,  of  pectose,  and  eight-tenths  per 
cent,  of  salts,  or  about  ten  per  cent,  of  total  nutriment.  This 
fruit  is  often  used  as  a  medicine.  The  strawberry-cure  is 
quite  as  beneficial  as  the  grape-cure. 

PIE-PLANT. 

Pie-plant  is  not  a  fruit,  but  is  sometimes  used  in  the  place 
of  it  in  sauce  and  pie.  It  contains  water,  woody  matter  or 
cellulose,  and  oxalic  acid;  and  as  the  latter  is  very  poisonous, 
pie-plant  should  not  be  used. 

TOMATOES. 

Although  it  is  usually  classed  with  vegetables,  it  more 
closely  resembles  fruit.  It  contains  malic  acid  and  a  very 
little  oxalic  acid,  but  not  enough  to  be  injurious.  It  also 
contains  one  and  six-tenths  per  cent,  of  albumen,  two  and 
five-tenths  per  cent,  of  sugar,  three-tenths  per  cent,  of  fats( 
one  and  eight-tenths  per  cent,  of  acid,  and  six-tenths  per  cent, 
of  salts,  having  a  total  nutritive  value  of  six  and  five-tenths 
per  cent. 


FRESH  FRUIT. 


IN  serving  fresh  fruit,  it  should  always  be  that  which  is  per- 
fectly ripe  and  sound,  and  should  be  thoroughly  washed 
and  wiped  dry.  Fruit  with  decayed  spots  upon  it,  is  diseased, 
and  should  not  be  eaten.  It  has  a  circulation  similar  to  that 
of  the  human  body;  and  when  one  part  becomes  diseased, 
the  germs  are  transmitted  to  all  parts,  and  it  quickly  decays. 
Fruit  is  especially  desirable  in  the  summer,  as  it  has  a 
cooling  effect,  and  supplies  the  extra  demand  for  water;  the 
acids  in  the  fruit  are  disinfectants,  and  destroy  all  the  germs 
in  the  stomach  and  intestinal  canal.  Indeed,  if  fresh  fruit 
were  more  generally  eaten  during  the  spring  months,  there 
would  be  less  sickness,  and  a  much  less  demand  for  spring 
medicines. 

There  is  no  food  that  adds  more  beauty  to  the  table  than 
a  nicely  arranged  dish  of  fresh  fruit.  Some  bright  oranges 
heaped  upon  a  fruit  dish  which  has  been  trimmed  with  some 
well-washed  orange  leaves  (other  kinds  of  leaves  will  do), 
make  a  very  pretty  dish.  Another  very  artistic,  unique,  and 
appetizing  way  to  serve  oranges  is  to  cut  them  in  halves,  pla- 
cing them  on  a  plate  with  the  cut  side  up,  and  decorating  the 
plate  with  leaves  and  orange  blossoms.  When  served  in  this 
way,  they  are  to  be  eaten  with  a  spoon,  eating  only  the  juice. 
The  woody  tissue  is  indigestible,  and  should  never  be  eaten. 
Cherries  also  make  an  inviting  dish,  if  washed  and  dried 
well,  and  heaped  upon  a  plate,  with  a  few  clean  cherry  leaves 
around  the  edge  of  the  plate. 
[208] 


FRESH    FRUIT.  2Og 

STRAWBERRIES. 

These  may  be  served  in  the  following  manner  :  Select 
good,  ripe  strawberries  that  are  a  bright  red  color;  wash  well, 
but  very  carefully,  so  as  not  to  mash  the  berries.  Remove 
the  hulls,  and  if  the  berries  are  the  least  sandy,  wash  again. 
Put  into  individual  dishes,  and  pour  over  them  a  nut  cream 
made  from  the  cocoanut  (see  index  for  cocoanut  cream),  and 
serve  without  sugar,  leaving  each  individual  to  sweeten  to 
taste. 

FRESH  RASPBERRIES,  BLACKBERRIES,  AND 
HUCKLEBERRIES. 

These  may  be  served  with  the  cocoanut  cream  the  same 
as  the  strawberries.  Any  kind  of  nuts  may  be  used,  however, 
for  the  cream;  such  as  the  hickory-nut,  peanut,  or  almond. 
They  may  be  served,  too,  without  any  dressing. 

CURRANTS. 

The  white  currant  is  the  sweeter,  but  does  not  make  as 
pretty  a  dish  as  the  red  currant.  This  fruit  is  quite  acid,  and 
makes  a  more  palatable  sauce,  if  part  of  them  are  mashed 
and  sweetened  for  an  hour  before  serving.  Take  |  of  a  cup 
of  sugar  to  i  quart  of  currants  which  have  been  picked  from 
the  stems  and  have  been  well  washed.  Mash  with  a  wooden 
potato  masher  or  with  the  bottom  of  a  tumbler.  Let  the 
fruit  stand,  to  allow  the  sugar  to  dissolve  and  permeate  the 
fruit.  Currants  may  also  be  served  without  mashing  and 
without  sugar. 

PLUMS. 

Select  good,  ripe  plums  that  are  large  in  size  and  capable 
of  being  easily  peeled.      The  peach  plum,  egg  plum,  and  lum- 
bard  are  good  varieties  to  choose.      With  a  very  sharp,  thin- 
14 


2IO  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

bladed  knife,  remove  the  skin.  The  pit  can  be  removed  from 
some  varieties  quite  easily,  by  cutting  the  plum  into  halves. 
If  they  can  be  removed,  do  so;  if  not,  serve  whole,  sprinkling 
with  a  very  little  sugar. 

PEACHES. 

Peaches  make  a  very  inviting  dish,  if,  after  the  fruit  has 
been  wiped  with  a  damp  cloth,  it  is  stacked  upon  a  fruit 
plate,  or  served  with  other  fresh  fruits,  as  pears,  plums,  and 
apples.  As  a  sauce,  they  are  good  when  peeled,  sliced,  and 
served  with  nut  cream  (see  index  for  cocoanut  cream). 

PEARS. 

Fresh,  ripe  pears  are  an  ideal  table  fruit.  They  make  an 
artistic  dish  alone,  or  when  served  on  a  fruit  plate  with  mixed 
fruits.  Being  so  rich,  juicy,  and  easily  prepared,  they  are 
usually  served  in  this  way.  But  they  are  also  very  good  if 
peeled,  cored,  and  sliced,  and  served  in  individual  sauce 
dishes,  without  sugar  ;  or,  if  desired,  they  may  be  served 
with  sugar  and  nut  cream  (see  index  for  cocoanut  cream). 

GRAPES. 

Grapes  not  only  make  a  very  inviting  dish  alone,  and  also 
when  combined  with  other  fruits,  but  they  are  so  plentiful 
and  cheap  in  almost  all  parts  of  the  country,  that  they  can 
be  freely  used  every  day  during  their  season.  A  very  artistic 
effect  can  be  made  in  serving  grapes  by  placing  on  the  same 
dish  the  three  different  colors --the  purple,  the  white,  and 

the  wine. 

APPLES. 

Nothing  is  more  cheering  on  a  cold  wintry  day  than  a  dish 
of  bright  red  apples.  The  apple  and  the  banana  are  the  two 
fruits  most  commonly  used  on  the  tables,  as  they  can  be 


FRESH    FRUIT.  2  I  I 

obtained  for  so  many  months  in  the  year,  in  every  part  of  the 
country.  Well-matured,  mellow,  sweet  apples  make  a  very 
good  sauce  when  served  raw,  if  peeled,  cored,  sliced,  and 
covered  with  cocoanut  cream  (see  index). 

BANANAS  AND  ORANGES. 

Select  good,  ripe  bananas.  Peel  and  slice  thin. 
Squeeze  over  them  the  juice  of  an  orange,  and  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar.  This  dish  is  usually  served  cold,  but  for 
weak  persons  it  is  best  not  to  have  foods  very  cold  ;  as, 
before  digestion  can  take  place,  they  must  be  warmed  by  the 
stomach,  which  of  course  diminishes  the  vitality,  and  is  a  tax 
upon  the  system. 

PINEAPPLES. 

The  pineapple  is  a  delicious  fruit,  and  is  of  late  years 
becoming  so  abundant  and  cheap  that  it  is  coming  into  more 
general  use. 

It  is  generally  peeled,  sliced,  and  sugared  before  it  is  sent 
to  the  table  ;  but  by  this  method  the  beauty  of  the  fruit  as 
well  as  much  of  its  flavor  and  juices  are  lost.  In  England, 
where  pineapples  are  always  the  greatest  luxuries,  they  are 
cut  in  horizontal  slices,  with  a  very  sharp,  thin-bladed  knife, 
the  slices  being  kept  together,  and  the  crown  left  on  the  fruit, 
which  is  placed  in  the  center  of  a  dish  of  assorted  fruit  as  the 
chief  ornament  of  the  dessert.  The  pineapple  can  then  be 
served  on  individual  dishes,  accompanied  with  a  dish  of  pow- 
dered sugar. 

A  very  pretty  and  unique  way  of  serving  pineapples  is  to 
cut  a  slice  from  the  top,  removing  the  crown,  and  then  with 
a  silver  spoon  scrape  out  all  the  pulp  possible,  removing  the 
core  with  a  sharp  knife.  Sweeten  the  pulp  to  suit  the  taste, 
and  pour  back  into  the  pineapple.  The  juice  of  another 


212  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

pineapple  may  also  be  put  in  if  one  will  not  be  sufficient. 
Then  place  on  the  crown,  and  put  the  filled  pineapple  on  a 
low  fruit  dish  or  plate,  placing  plums  or  small,  curled  yellow 
bananas  around  it. 

In  serving,  lift  off  the  crown,  and  dish  into  individual 
sauce-dishes. 

Select  a  good,  ripe  pineapple.  With  a  very  sharp  knife, 
remove  the  skin  and  eyes  ;  and  slice  very  thin  and  in  small 
shavings.  Then  take  some  very  sweet  Florida  oranges, 
remove  the  outer  peeling,  separate  into  the  natural  divisions, 
and  with  a  very  sharp  knife  cut  away  the  membranous  skin 
surrounding  the  pulp.  Place  in  a  fruit  dish  in  alternate  layers 
with  the  sliced  pineapples,  dusting  each  layer  with  pulverized 
sugar.  Then  pour  over  all  a  rich  cocoanut  cream  (see 
index);  or,  if  desired,  the  freshly  grated  cocoanut  may  be 
used,  putting  it  on  in  layers,  as  you  do  the  pineapple  and 
orange. 


TO  CAN  FRUIT. 


FRUIT  canning  is  a  very  simple  process,  but  if  it  is  perfectly 
successful,  certain  principles  must  be  followed  :  - 

1.  All  germs  must  be  killed  and  excluded. 

2.  Only  good,  sound  fruit  should  be  used. 

3.  Keep  in  as  natural  condition  as  possible. 

Germs  are  the  cause  of  decomposition,  Then,  in  order 
that  fruit  may  keep,  all  the  germs  which  have  settled  upon  it 
from  the  surrounding  air  and  from  the  touch  of  fingers,  must 
be  destroyed.  Fruit  does  not  harbor  as  many  germs  as  most 
foods  ;  this  is  on  account  of  the  acids  which  they  contain. 
But  in  handling  the  fruit  after  the  skin  is  removed,  germs  from 
the  air  will  adhere  and  prevent  its  keeping,  unless  they  are 
destroyed. 

Another  reason  why  fruit  sometimes  spoils,  is  because  the 
germs  that  are  in  the  empty  cans  are  not  all  killed.  This  is 
the  only  reason  why  new  cans  will  keep  fruit  better  than  old 
ones.  When  using  old  cans,  they  should  be  thoroughly 
sterilized.  As  soon  as  the  fruit  is  taken  out,  the  cans  should 
be  thoroughly  washed,  scalded  in  boiling  water,  then  drained, 
by  inverting  and  resting  one  edge  on  something  to  allow  the 
steam  to  escape,  and  stored  away  without  the  covers  on. 
The  covers  should  be  well  cleansed  so  that  all  fruit  be  removed 
from  every  crease,  and  put  away  in  a  box  in  a  dry  place  ;  the 
rubbers  should  be  tied  with  a  string  and  kept  where  it  is 
warm,  as  freezing  injures  the  rubbers.  The  practise  of  put- 
ting the  rubber  in  the  can  and  screwing  on  the  cover  is  not 

[213] 


2  I  4  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

to  be  recommended,  as  the  air  confined  in  the  can  decom- 
poses. When  cans  are  well  taken  care  of,  as  previously 
described,  they  need  only  thorough  washing  and  rinsing  when 
they  are  needed  for  canning. 

Only  the  best  fruit  is  good  enough  to  can.  Partially 
decayed  fruit  is  expensive  at  any  price,  as  it  is  almost  sure  to 
spoil.  Fruit  spoils  in  different  ways.  Sometimes  it  ferments, 
becoming  foamy,  and  begins  to  ooze  out.  This  can  be  readily 
told  by  the  looks;  but  again  it  will  look  all  right,  when  the 
fruit  has  changed  to  vinegar;  then  sometimes  it  will  have  a 
musty  taste.  In  any  of  these  cases,  it  is  unfit  to  use.  Many 
whose  sense  and  taste  are  not  very  acute  do  not  detect  the 
difference  between  good  and  spoiled  fruit,  and  then  can  not 
understand  why  their  stomachs  give  them  so  much  trouble. 

In  canning  fruit,  it  is  usually  best  to  put  the  fruit  in  be- 
fore it  is  cooked.  This  is  especially  true  of  small  fruits  ;  as, 
strawberries,  plums,  etc.  Indeed,  all  fruit  looks  a  great  deal 
better  canned  in  this  way. 

Fill  the  cans  full,  and  shake  down  as  much  as  possible, 
then  fill  with  a  very  thin  syrup,  put  on  the  covers,  but 
not  the  rubbers,  and  cook  in  a  boiler  with  enough  water 
nearly  to  cover  the  cans.  Different  fruits  require  differ- 
ent lengths  of  time  for  cooking.  Strawberries  only  require 
twenty  minutes  after  the  water  begins  to  boil.  Pears,  if  they 
are  hard,  take  two  hours.  When  done,  fill  up  with  syrup, 
put  on  the  rubber,  and  screw  down  tight.  Invert  to  see  if  it 
is  air-tight,  and  then  set,  with  the  cover  down,  on  the  table 
to  cool.  When  cold,  turn  over,  and  tighten  the  covers  if 
possible  ;  and  if  it  is  fruit  which  fades,  as  strawberries,  the 
can  should  be  wrapped  with  brown  paper,  and  then  set 
in  a  dark,  cool  place.  All  fruit  is  better  to  be  kept  in  a 
cool  place. 


TO    CAN    FRUIT.  2  I  5 

STRAWBERRIES. 

\ 

The  first  thing  of  importance  in  canning  strawberries  is 
to  select  good,  sound  fruit.  Those  that  have  been  water- 
soaked  by  a  heavy  rain  are  not  good  for  canning,  as  they 
will  almost  always  spoil.  The  dark  red  strawberry  holds  its 
color  better  than  the  light  red  one,  and  is  therefore  preferable 
for  canning. 

Wash  the  berries  by  putting  them  in  a  wire  basket,  and 
dipping  them  into  a  large  pail  partly  filled  with  water,  lifting 
up  and  down  to  rinse  off  all  the  sand  and  dust;  then  remove 
the  hulls,  being  very  careful  not  to  mash  the  berries.  If  they 
are  still  sandy  or  dirty,  they  can  be  rinsed  again;  but  the  less, 
the  better,  after  the  hulls  are  removed. 

Fill  the  cans,  and  with  one  hand  over  the  mouth  of  the 
jar,  shake  down  as  much  as  possible  without  jamming  the 
fruit;  then  fill  the  cans  with  a  syrup  which  is  made  by  boiling 
i  cup  of  sugar  in  6  cups  of  water.  Screw  on  the  covers, 
leaving  the  rubbers  off.  Cook  in  a  steam-cooker;  or  boil  in 
a  wash-boiler,  by  putting  a  rack  made  of  lath  in  the  bottom 
of  the  boiler  so  the  cans  will  not  come  too  close  to  the  fire. 
Three  or  four  thicknesses  of  cloth  will  also  prevent  the  cans 
from  breaking.  Fill  the  boiler  with  cold  water  until  the  cans 
are  about  two  thirds  covered  with  it,  cover  tightly,  and  after 
the  water  comes  to  a  boiling-point,  let  the  berries  boil  twenty 
minutes.  Then  remove  the  boiler  from  the  stove,  and  let 
cool  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  Remove  from  the  cooker 
or  boiler,  one  can  at  a  time.  As  soon  as  one  is  taken  out, 
remove  cover,  fill  can  with  boiling-hot  syrup,  put  on  the  rub- 
ber, screw  the  cover  down  as  tightly  as  possible,  and  invert 
the  can.  If  the  can  is  not  air-tight,  the  juice  will  ooze  out, 
or  there  will  be  a  sizzling  sound.  When  this  occurs,  try 
again,  endeavoring  to  screw  down  the  cover  more  tightly.  If 


2l6  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

this  does  not  help  it,  the  probable  cause  is  in  the  cover. 
Very  often  the  edges  are  turned  up  and  made  uneven;  for  the 
.usual  way  of  opening  fruit  cans  is  by  running  a  thin-bladed 
knife  around  the  can,  between  the  rubber  and  the  glass.  This 
often  results  in  the  edge  of  the  cover  being  bent  upward;  and 
when  the  cover  is  used  the  next  fruit  season,  it  should  be 
hammered  down.  This  may  be  done  on  the  can,  hitting  the 
edge  of  the  cover  with  a  hammer.  There  is  not  much  danger 
of  breaking  the  cans,  as  when  filled  with  fruit,  they  do  not 
easily  break. 

When  all  are  filled  and  tightened,  set  the  cans  on  their 
covers  until  cold;  then  turn  over,  wrap  in  brown  paper,  and 
set  away  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  The  brown  paper  helps  to 
keep  them  dark.  Light  fades  all  fruit  to  some  extent,  and 
strawberries  especially  are  made  lighter  in  color  by  the  light. 

If  these  directions  are  strictly  followed,  the  fruit  will  not 
only  keep  well,  but  will  be  of  a  natural  color  and  perfectly 
whole,  making  an  attractive  and  inviting  dish  for  the  table. 

RASPBERRIES. 

The  raspberry  is  a  seedy  fruit,  and  it  is  therefore  neces- 
sary to  select  as  large,  pulpy  ones  as  possible.  Look  over 
carefully.  Wash  by  putting  in  a  wire  basket,  and  dipping  in 
a  pail  of  water.  Then  put  into  the  cans,  shaking  down  some, 
but  being  careful  not  to  bruise  the  berries.  Fill  with  a 
syrup  made  by  boiling  i  cup  of  sugar  in  7  cups  of  water. 
Screw  on  the  cover  tightly,  leaving  off  the  rubber.  Cook  in 
a  steam-cooker,  or  common  boiler,  arranging  the  same  as  for 
canning  strawberries,  and  cooking  about  the  same  length  of 
time.  Finish  the  same  as  strawberries,  excepting  the  wrap- 
ping with  brown  paper,  which  may  be  left  off  if  desired,  as 
raspberries  will  not  fade  very  much,  if  kept  in  a  dark  place. 


TO    CAN    FRUIT.  217 

CHERRIES. 

Select  good,  plump  fruit,  and  that  which  is  not  wormy. 
Wash  well.  Cherries  can  be  pitted  with  a  cherry-pitter,  but 
they  look  much  nicer  if  pitted  by  hand,  as  the  machine  lacer- 
ates them  somewhat.  To  pit  them  by  hand,  use  a  common 
steel  fork,  inserting  the  tines  into  the  cherry  near  the  stem 
end,  holding  the  fruit  with  the  left  hand,  and  pulling  out  the 
seed.  If  this  be  done  carefully,  the  cherry  will  be  almost  as 
it  was  before,  when  whole.  Some  prefer  to  leave  the  pits  in, 
but  it  gives  them  a  peculiar  "  pitty  "  taste.  There  are  sea- 
sons, too,  when  the  cherries  are  very  wormy,  and  it  is  diffi- 
cult to  distinguish  between  the  good  and  the  bad  ones,  unless 
the  pit  is  removed.  Put  the  fruit  in  the  cans,  and  finish 
like  strawberries,  with  the  exception  of  cooking  the  cherries 
one  hour.  Use  the  same  amount  of  sugar. 

HUCKLEBERRIES. 

Select  good,  large,  fresh  berries.  Look  them  over  care- 
fully, rejecting  all  soft  and  withered  ones.  Wash  well,  and 
place  in  the  cans,  shaking  down  as  much  as  possible.  Fill 
the  cans  with  a  syrup  made  of  i  cup  of  sugar  to  12  cups  of 
water.  Finish  the  same  as  strawberries,  with  the  exception 
of  cooking  the  huckleberries  for  half  an  hour  after  they  begin 
to  boil.  When  canned  in  this  way,  the  berries  remain  whole, 
and  look  almost  like  fresh  huckleberries. 

BLACKBERRIES. 

The  blackberry,  like  the  raspberry,  is  very  seedy.  It  is 
therefore  important  that  large,  pulpy,  ripe  fruit  be  selected. 
Can  the  same  as  raspberries. 


2l8  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

PEACHES. 

The  best  peaches  for  canning,  in  most  sections  of  the 
country,  are  the  Early  Crawford,  Barnard,  Golden  Drop,  Hill's 
Chile,  and  Late  Crawford.  It  is  always  best  to  select  the  larg- 
est fruit;  for  although  there  are  not  so  many  peaches  in  a 
bushel,  there  are  also  not  so  many  pits,  and  hence  a  bushel 
of  large  fruit  will  make  more  quarts  than  a  bushel  of  small 
ones;  and  they  are  usually  more  juicy  and  better  flavored. 

To  prepare  for  canning,  wipe  each  peach  with  a  dry 
cloth,  rubbing  off  the  fuzz  as  thoroughly  as  possible.  Cut 
into  halves,  running  the  knife  through  the  stem  and  blow  end 
of  the  fruit.  Remove  the  pit,  pare  each  half,  and  drop  into 
a  clean  can  in  such  a  way  that  the  pit  side  will  be  downward, 
or  toward  the  center.  Drop  them  all  in  the  same  way,  so 
that  they  will  pack  together  closely.  Crowd  in  all  you  pos- 
sibly can;  and  as  soon  as  one  can  is  filled,  set  it  in  the  refrig- 
erator, or  some  other  cool  place,  while  you  are  peeling  the 
rest.  This  will  keep  them  from  turning  dark.  When  enough 
cans  have  been  prepared  to  fill  the  boiler,  fill  up  the  cans 
with  a  syrup  made  by  boiling  i  cup  of  sugar  in  10  cups  of 
water.  However,  if  the  peaches  are  very  sweet,  more  water 
may  be  added.  Screw  down  the  covers  tightly,  leaving  off 
the  rubbers,  and  cook  for  one  hour  after  the  water  boils. 
Remove,  and  finish  the  same  as  strawberries.  Peaches  do 
not  need  to  be  wrapped  with  paper.  If  different  kinds  are 
put  up,  it  is  always  best  to  label  them. 

PEARS. 

The  Bartlett,  Flemish  Beauty,  and  Rostiezer  are  con- 
sidered by  many  the  best  summer  pears  for  canning.  They 
should  be  ripe,  but  not  soft.  Wash  well,  peel,  and  cut  in 
halves  lengthwise,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  take  out  the 


TO    CAN    FRUIT.  2IQ 

core  and  blow  end.  Then,  unless  they  are  too  large  to 
get  in,  put  them  in  the  can  in  halves,  arranging  them  so  that 
the  inside  is  downward  or  toward  the  center.  Pack  closely, 
and  fill  the  can  with  a  syrup  made  by  boiling  i  cup  of 
sugar  in  14  cups  of  water.  Cook  in  a  steam-cooker  for 
two  hours;  then  remove,  fill  up  with  boiling  syrup,  put  on 
the  rubber,  screw  down  the  cover  tightly,  and  invert  can 
to  see  if  it  is  air-tight.  If  it  is,  place  on  the  table,  stand- 
ing the  can  on  the  cover  until  it  is  cold.  Then  turn  right 
side  up,  tighten  the  cover,  if  possible,  and  set  away  in  a 
cool  room. 

PLUMS. 

The  best  plums  for  canning,  in  most  sections  of  the 
country,  are  the  Damask,  Green  Gage,  Lombard  Peach 
plum,  and  Golden  Drop.  The  Golden  Drop  plums  are  no 
more  acid,  when  canned,  than  a  peach;  but  the  other  kinds 
are  quite  acid. 

Wash  well,  pack  in  the  cans  whole,  and  fill  with  syrup 
made  by  boiling  I  cup  of  sugar  to  5  cups  of  water  (the 
Golden  Drop  requires  less  sugar).  Cook  the  same  as  straw- 
berries, letting  them  cook,  however,  from  forty  minutes  to 
one  hour.  If  real  ripe,  they  will  become  well  cooked  in 
forty  minutes. 

GRAPES. 

The  Concord  is  a  very  good  grape  for  canning;  but  there 
are  others  equally  as  good  among  the  purple  varieties.  The 
white,  or  green  grapes  are  not  usually  so  good  and  rich  in 
flavor  as  the  purple  grapes. 

Wash  well,  pick  from  the  stem,  and  pinch  off  the  skins, 
putting  the  pulps  in  one  dish  and  the  skins  in  another.  Cook 
the  pulps  just  enough  to  free  the  seed,  and  then  sift  through 


22O  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

a  colander.  Boil  the  skins  in  water  until  tender,  and  add  to 
the  pulps.  Cook  all  together,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Pour 
into  well-washed  cans,  and  seal.  The  sugar  may  be  omitted, 
the  fruit  being  sweetened  when  the  cans  are  opened  for  use, 
adding  the  sugar  several  hours  before  using,  so  it  will  become 
dissolved  in  the  fruit. 

APPLES. 

The  Snow  apple  is  the  best  for  canning  ;  but  all  varieties 
can  be  used.  If  the  Snow  apple  is  used,  wash  well  and  peel, 
cooking  the  peelings  in  a  little  water.  Steam  or  boil  the 
apples  (which  should  be  quartered  and  cored  before  cooking) 
until  perfectly  tender,  but  not  mushy.  Squeeze  the  juice 
from  the  skins,  and  add  to  the  apples.  Add  i  cup  of  sugar 
to  each  two-quart  can  of  apples,  and  can  while  hot.  The 
juice  from  the  skins  is  red,  and  gives  the  canned  fruit  a  pink 
color.  The  small  Siberian  crab-apples  when  cooked  and  sifted 
through  a  colander,  are  good  canned,  or  dried  on  plates. 

SWEET  APPLES  AND  QUINCES. 

The  Talman  sweet  is  the  best  sweet  apple  for  cook- 
ing and  canning.  Wash,  pare,  and  core  the  fruit  ;  prepare 
in  the  same  manner  half  as  many  quinces.  Place  alternate 
layers  of  apples  and  quinces  in  the  cans,  continuing  in  this 
manner  until  the  cans  are  full,  having  in  them  about  twice  as 
many  apples  as  quinces.  Fill  the  cans  with  syrup  made  by 
boiling  i  cup  of  sugar  in  about  10  cups  of  water  ;  and  finish 
the  same  as  strawberries,  excepting  the  time  of  cooking, 
which  should,  in  this  case,  be  about  one  and  one-half  hours, 
or  until  tender.  If  desired,  the  sweet  apples  may  be  canned 
alone.  They  make  an  excellent  sauce  for  spring,  when  sweet 
apples  are  scarce  ;  or  they  may  be  kept  for  years,  and  used 
in  a  year  when  apples  are  scarce. 


TO    CAN    FRUIT.  221 

•  PUMPKIN. 

Select  a  good,  ripe  pumpkin,  one  which  is  fine  grained. 
Peel,  cut  out  all  the  stringy  portion  on  the  inside,  and  cut 
into  small  pieces.  Cook  in  a  kettle,  adding  a  very  little 
water  ;  allow  it  to  cook  for  several  hours,  and  stir  occasion- 
ally, to  keep  from  burning.  When  quite  dry,  and  of  a  dark 
color,  put  into  cans  that  have  been  well  sterilized,  packing  as 
tightly  as  possible.  Put  the  rubber  and  cover  on,  and  screw 
down  cover  tightly.  Do  not  sift  the  pumpkin,  for  if  it  once 
gets  cool,  it  will  scorch  before  it  will  get  hot  enough  again  to 
can.  The  sifting  can  be  done  when  the  cans  are  opened. 

SQUASH. 

Select  good  Hubbard  squash,  being  careful  to  take  those 
having  a  very  hard  shell.  Wash  well,  cut  in  pieces,  and 
steam  in  a  steam-cooker.  When  cooked,  remove  from  the 
shell,  and  mash,  seasoning  slightly  with  salt.  If  too  dry, 
add  a  little  boiling  water.  Then  fill  the  cans,  packing  down 
well,  and  pouring  a  little  boiling  water  over  the  top.  Put  on 
the  rubber,  screw  down  the  cover,  and  place  in  a  steam- 
cooker  or  boiler,  and  cook  for  two  hours. 


COOKED  FRUIT. 


BAKED   APPLES. 

O  ELECT  good,  tart  apples,  wash  well,  and  remove  the  core 
O  by  inserting  a  new  clothes-pin  into  the  blow  end  of  the 
apple,  pressing  the  ends  of  the  pin  together  while  inserting, 
but  letting  them  expand  afterward;  then  turn  the  pin  around, 
holding  the  apple  firm;  pull  out  the  clothes-pin,  and  the  core 
will  come  out.  Fill  the  cavity  with  sugar,  place  in  a  granite 
pie  tin,  putting  about  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water  in  the  tin,  and 
place  in  a  moderately  hot  oven;  bake  until  the  apples  are 
done,  but  not  mushy.  Remove  from  the  oven,  fill  the  cavi- 
ties with  the  beaten  white  of  i  egg  which  has  been  sweetened 
with  i  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar,  place  a  blanched 
almond  on  the  top  of  each,  and  return  to  the  oven  just  long 
enough  to  cook  the  egg,  which  will  require  only  two  or  three 
minutes.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 


BAKED  SWEET  APPLES. 

The  Talman  sweet   apple  is  the   best   for   baking.      Select 
some  that  are  about  the  same  size,  and   not  wormy.      Wash 

i  J 

well,  leaving  stem  on.  Put  into  a  granite  pie  tin,  with  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
for  three  or  four  hours,  until  they  are  very  soft  clear  through. 
They  will  then  be  sweet  and  juicy. 

[222] 


COOKED    FRUIT.  223 

BAKED  PEARS. 

Select  pears  that  are  ripe  and  quite  mellow,  and  of  about 
the  same  size.  \Yash  well,  and  remove  cores  with  a  sharp 
knife,  cutting  in  from  the  blow  end.  Put  in  a  granite  basin 
or  pie  tin,  with  a  little  water  added,  and  bake  in  a  moderately 
heated  oven  until  they  are  very  tender,  which  will  take  from 
one  to  three  hours,  according  to  the  mellowness  of  the  pears. 
When  thoroughly  baked,  set  them  upon  the  stem  end,  and 
fill  the  cavity  where  the  core  was  removed  with  a  meringue 
made  of  the  white  of  i  egg,  I  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  | 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract.  Then  place  on  the  frosting 
two  or  three  pine-nuts,  and  return  to  the  oven  for  two  or 
three  minutes  to  set  the  egg.  They  may  be  served  hot  or 
cold,  and  are  far  superior  to  baked  apples. 

BAKED  BANANAS. 

Select  bananas  that  are  not  too  ripe,  strip  off  the  peeling, 
and  roll  in  an  egg  that  has  been  beaten,  afterward  rolling  in 
finely  ground  zwieback.  Place  them  on  oiled  tins,  and  bake 
in  the  oven  until  nicely  browned.  As  soon  as  removed  from 
the  oven,  roll  them  in  pulverized  sugar,  and  serve  hot. 

BAKED  PEACHES. 

Select  good,  fine-grained  peaches;  peel,  cut  into  halves, 
and  remove  the  pits.  Roll  in  a  beaten  egg  and  cracker- 
crumbs,  the  same  as  the  baked  bananas.  Bake  on  an  oiled 
tin  until  nicely  browned,  and  then  roll  in  pulverized  sugar. 

APPLE  CUTLETS. 

Take  six  good,  tart  apples,  pare,  and  slice  crosswise,  hav- 
ing the  slices  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick.  Dip  each 
slice  into  peanut  cream,  and  roll  in  finely  ground  or  grated 


224  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

zwieback.  Place  on  oiled  tins,  and  bake  in  a  moderately 
heated  oven  until  nicely  browned.  If  a  fried  appearance  is 
desired,  brush  the  top  with  peanut  cream  when  they  have 
begun  to  brown,  using  a  piece  of  thin  cloth  for  a  brush. 
When  done,  sprinkle  with  pulverized  sugar. 

BAKED  QUINCES. 

Wash  some  ripe  quinces,  and  bake  until  soft.  When 
cold,  strip  off  the  skins,  and  roll  them  in  powdered  sugar. 
Serve  cold,  with  or  without  nut  cream. 

BAKED  APPLE  SAUCE. 

Pare,  quarter,  and  core  some  mellow,  tart  apples.  Place 
in  a  bake  dish,  and  cover  them  so  as  to  keep  in  all  the  steam. 
Let  them  bake  until  perfectly  tender.  Remove  from  the  oven, 
and  lay  them  in  a  glass  fruit  dish,  dusting  them  with  pulverized 
sugar  as  they  are  put  in. 


DRIED   FRUITS. 


SINCE  self-sealing  cans  have  become  so  cheap,  there  is 
little  demand  for  dried  fruits,  although  a  change  is  often 
a  luxury.  In  drying  fruit  or  sweet  corn,  the  chief  thing  is  to 
evaporate  as  quickly  as  possible  the  water  that  they  contain, 
and  keep  them  from  being  exposed  to  the  dust  and  insects. 
An  evaporator  is  the  best  for  drying  fruits;  but  if  that  can  not 
be  obtained,  the  oven  is  the  next  best  thing.  Care  should  be 
taken,  however,  not  to  get  the  oven  too  hot.  The  doors 
should  be  left  open,  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape.  The  prac- 
tise of  drying  fruit  in  the  sun  is  not  to  be  recommended.  The 
sun  fades  the  fruit,  and  when  dried  in  this  way,  it  has  lost  its 
peculiar  flavor,  besides  having  been  exposed  to  flies  and  other 
insects,  as  well  as  to  the  germ-laden  dust. 

TO  COOK  DRIED  FRUIT. 

Before  cooking  dried  fruit,  the  process  of  drying  must  be 
undone  as  far  as  possible,  bringing  the  fruit  back  to  its  origi- 
nal condition.  This  may  be  done  by  soaking  the  fruit  in 
water  over-night,  and  then  cooking  in  the  same  water,  letting 
it  simmer  slowly;  or  it  may  be  steamed  in  a  steam-cooker 
until  it  is  perfectly  tender.  Care  should  be  taken  to  keep 
the  fruit  in  as  natural  a  condition  as  possible. 

DRIED  APPLES. 

Look  over  and  wash  well;  soak  overnight,  and  cook  in  the 
same  water  in  which  they  were  soaked.  Simmer  gently  for 
three  or  four  hours.  When  tender,  lift  from  the  stew-pan, 

15  [225] 


226  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

with  a  silver  fork,    sifting   pulverized   sugar   over   the  pieces. 
Put  into  individual  sance-dishes. 


DRIED  PRUNES. 

The  sweet  California  prunes  arc  the  best.  Wash  well, 
and  soak  in  plenty  of  water  overnight.  Put  them  in  a  granite 
stew-pan,  and  let  simmer  gently  for  half  a  day.  By  cooking 
them  a  long  time,  the  sweetness  of  the  fruit  is  brought  out, 
making  sugar  unnecessary. 

PRUNE  PUREE. 

Cook  the  prunes  as  in  the  preceding  recipe,  and  remove 
the  skins  and  pits  by  sifting  through  a  colander.  The  prune' 
juice  should  be  drained  off  before  sifting,  as  the  puree  should 
be  quite  thick.  If  it  is  too  thin,  heat  it  hot,  and  then 
pour  it  over  the  white  of  an  egg  which  has  been  beaten  to  a 
very  stiff  froth,  beating  all  the  time  the  puree  is  being 
poured  over  it.  The  hot  puree  will  cook  the  egg  sufficiently. 

PRUNE  SOUFFLE. 

Wash  in  boiling  water  and  then  soak  in  cold  water  over- 
night i  cup  of  prunes.  In  the  morning  cook  in  a  steam-cooker 
two  or  three  hours,  when  they  will  be  perfectly  tender.  They 
should  have  barely  enough  water  to  cover  them  when  placed 
in  the  steamer.  When  cool,  sift  through  a  colander,  and  put 
where  it  will  get  very  cold.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
very  stiff  and  carefully  fold  into  the  sifted  prunes,  pour  into 
a  pudding  dish,  and  bake  in  a  very  quick  oven  just  long 
enough  for  the  egg  to  set.  This  may  be  served  either  hot 
or  cold. 


DRIED    FRUIT.  22/ 

DRIED  APPLES  AND  RAISINS. 

Cook  the  apples  as  directed  in  recipe  for  dried  apples, 
and  at  the  same  time  cook  half  as  many  raisins,  letting  them 
cook  very  slowly.  When  the  apples  are  nearly  done,  put  in 
the  raisins,  and  let  them  simmer  together  for  half  an  hour. 
The  raisins  will  sweeten  the  apples  sufficiently. 


FRUIT  JUICES. 


juice  of  fruit  is  much  easier  to  digest  than  the  fruit  in 
1  its  entirety  ;  as  the  seeds,  skins,  and  woody  tissues, 
which  are  so  irritating  to  the  weak  stomach,  are  rejected. 
Fruit  juice  can  be  used  in  many  ways  :  as  a  beverage  ;  as  a 
substitute  for  cream,  when  used  with  grains  ;  or  in  the  form 
of  jelly  (without  sugar). 

The  juice,  or  sweet  wine,  can  be  obtained  from  all  juicy 
fruits. 

GRAPE  WINE. 

Select  good,  ripe  fruit,  exercising  care  not  to  take  any 
which  is  overripe.  Unripe  fruit  is  more  acid,  and  does  not 
have  the  delicate  flavors  found  in  the  ripe  fruit;  and  overripe 
fruit  contains  germs  of  fermentation  which,  if  they  are  not  all 
destroyed  during  the  process  of  wine  making,  will  cause  the 
wine  to  ferment. 

\Yash  the  grapes  well,  and  separate  from  the  stems. 
Mash  them  a  little  with  a  wooden  potato  masher,  that  there 
may  be  sufficient  juice  in  which  to  cook  them.  Place  in  a 
granite  stew-pan,  and  cook  until  the  seeds  are  freed  from  the 
pulp.  Pour  into  a  jelly-bag  made  of  two  thicknesses  of 
cheese-cloth.  A  good  way  to  make  the  bag  is  to  double  the 
cloth  and  cut  it  square,  like  Fig.  I.  Place  the  edge  ab  upon 
the  edge  be,  and  it  will  then  look  like  Fig.  2.  Then  sew 
these  edges,  ab  and  be,  on  the  machine  with  a  short  stitch, 
so  that  none  of  the  fruit  will  ooze  through.  The  line  tic  is 
[228] 


FRUIT    JUICES. 


229 


the  opening  of  the  bag.  Scald  the  bag  with  boiling  water; 
when  cool,  wring  out,  and  place  in  an  earthen  or  granite 
dish,  and  pour  the  fruit  into  the  bag.  Tie  the  mouth  of  the 
bag  with  a  stout  twine,  and  place  over  the  pan  a  jelly  stand, 
lifting  the  bag  and  fastening  it  to  the  top;  or,  if  there  is  no 
stand  handy,  fasten  the  bag  to  a  straight  stick,  letting  the 
stick  rest  upon  the  backs  of  two  chairs,  and  allowing  the 
point  of  the  bag  to  hang  over  the  earthen  or  granite  dish. 
Do  not  squeeze  the  bag,  as  that  will  press  out  some  of  the 


FIG.   i. 


FIG.  2. 


pulp.  Allow  it  to  drain  overnight,  or  for  several  hours.  In 
the  morning  heat  the  juice  which  has  accumulated  in  the  ves- 
sel, until  the  boiling-point  is  reached;  then  sweeten  with  ^ 
cup  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  juice.  Pour  the  hot  juice  into 
well-sterilized  cans,  and  seal  the  same  as  fruit.  Beer  bottles, 
with  rubber,  self-sealing  corks,  are  excellent  for  canning  wine. 
The  sugar  may  be  omitted  if  desired. 


STRAWBERRY   WINE. 

Take  good,  ripe  strawberries,  and  wash  well,  removing  all 
sand  and  dirt.  Remove  hulls,  and  rewash  very  carefully,  not 
bruising  the  berries.  Let  them  drain  until  dry;  then  place  in 
a  granite  or  earthen  dish,  and  mash  with  a  wooden  potato 
masher.  A  glass  bottle,  if  large  enough,  will  serve  as  a 
masher.  When  well  mashed,  turn  into  a  jelly-bag,  made  as 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

described  under  Grape  Wine,  and  hang  up  the  bag,  allowing 
the  juice  to  drain  out.  Do  not  squeeze  the  bag.  In  the  fun- 
nel-shaped bag,  the  juice  will  settle  in  the  lower  point,  and 
the  weight  of  the  fruit  above  will  cause  the  juice  to  ooze  out. 
The  contents  of  the  bag  will  be  quite  dry,  after  standing  for  a 
few  hours.  Heat  the  juice  to  the  boiling-point,  turn  into 
cans,  and  seal. 

HUCKLEBERRY   WINE. 

Take  good,  ripe  berries,  those  that  are  large  and  juicy. 
Look  over,  throwing  out  all  green  and  soft  ones.  Put  in  a 
granite  stew-pan,  adding  a  very  little  water  (about  I  cup  for 
5  quarts  of  berries),  and  set  on  the  stove  to  cook.  Stir  them 
frequently,  and  just  as  they  start  to  boil,  remove  from  the 
stove,  pour  into  the  jelly-bag,  and  let  the  juice  drain  out. 
Heat  the  juice  to  the  boiling-point  and  can.  It  is  best  not  to 
sweeten  the  juice  when  canning,  as  it  can  be  sweetened  when 
used;  and  if  it  is  desired  for  jelly,  it  is  better  without  sugar. 

RASPBERRY  WINE. 

Select  good,  plump,  ripe  raspberries,  look  over,  and  wash, 
letting  them  drain  until  quite  dry  ;  then  mash  in  an  earthen 
or  granite  dish,  and  pour  into  a  jelly-bag  or  two  thicknesses 
of  cheese-cloth,  and  squeeze  out  all  the  juice.  The  berries 
may  be  cooked  before  getting  out  the  juice  ;  but  the  cooked 
seeds  give  the  juice  a  spicy  taste.  Some,  however,  like  this 
taste,  while  others  prefer  to  have  the  fruit  uncooked.  Heat 
the  juice  to  the  boiling-point,  and  can  without  sugar. 

BLACKBERRY   WINE. 

Make  in  the  same  way  as  raspberry  wine,  and  can  with- 
out sugar. 


FRUIT    JUICES.  231 

CURRANT  WINE. 

Select  good,  ripe  fruit,  wash  well,  and  pick  from  the 
stems.  Place  them  in  an  earthen  or  granite  pan,  and  mash 
the  berries.  Put  into  a  strong  jelly-bag,  and  squeeze  out  all 
the  juice  possible.  Then  heat  the  juice,  and  can  the  same 
as  other  wines. 

CHERRY  WINE. 

Select  the  sweet  black  cherry,  pull  off  the  stems,  and 
reject  all  wormy  ones.  Wash  well,  and  cook  in  a  granite 
stew-pan,  adding  enough  water  nearly  to  cover  them,  and 
stirring  quite  often.  Allow  it  to  cool,  and  pour  into  a  jelly- 
bag,  squeezing  all  the  juice  out.  Reheat  to  the  boiling-point, 
and  can  the  same  as  other  wines. 

Other  cherries  may  be  used,  but  the  wine  will  be  more 
acid. 

PLUM  WINE. 

Most  of  the  plum  family  are  too  acid  to  make  palatable 
wine.  However,  the  Goldendrop  is  an  exception.  Wash 
well,  and  remove  the  stems.  Place  in  a  granite  stew-pan, 
adding  enough  water  nearly  to  cover  them.  Cook  slowly  for 
an  hour  or  more.  Pour  into  a  funnel-shaped  bag,  and  allow 
the  fruit  to  drain,  being  careful  not  to  squeeze  it  or  the  pulp 
may  go  through  the  bag,  into  the  juice,  causing  it  to  lose  its 
clearness.  Reheat  the  juice,  and  can  without  sugar  the  same 
as  other  wines.  After  the  juice  is  taken  out,  the  pulp  that  is 
left  in  the  bag  may  be  sifted  through  the  colander,  and  used 
for  sauce. 

QUINCE  WINE. 

Select  fruit  as  nearly  ripe  as  possible,  wash  well,  and  cut 
into  eighths  without  paring,  but  remove  the  core.  Cook 
slowly  in  a  granite  stew-pan  for  two  hours.  Pour  into  a  jelly- 


232  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

l>ag,  and  allow  it  to  drain.  Do  not  squeeze.  Reheat  juice, 
and  when  boiling  hot,  seal  in  glass  cans.  The  quality  of  the 
wine  may  be  improved  by  cooking  an  equal  quantity  of  sweet 
apples  with  the  quinces. 

SWEET-APPLE  WINE. 

Select  some  sweet  apples  of  good  flavor,  such  as  the 
Talman  sweet,  golden  sweet,  or  Bailey's  sweet.  Wash  well, 
cut  into  pieces,  without  paring  or  removing  the  core,  cook 
slowly  for  two  hours,  and  pour  into  a  jelly-bag,  allowing  all 
the  juice  to  drain  out  that  will  without  squeezing  the  bag. 
Heat  the  juice  to  the  boiling-point,  and  can  the  same  as 
other  wines. 

MULBERRY  WINE. 

Gather  the  mulberries  fresh  from  the  tree,  mash  well,  and 
put  into  a  jelly-bag,  squeezing  out  all  the  juice  possible. 
Sweeten  slightly,  heat  to  the  boiling-point,  and  can  in  the 
same  manner  as  other  wines. 


JELLIES. 


ALL  fruit  juices  do  not  contain  sufficient  pectose  to  form 
a  jelly,    and  only  a  few  kinds   of    fruit  will   make    jelly 
without  sugar.      Those  that   are  the  easiest  to  jelly,  are  the 
Siberian  crab-apple,  Snow  apple,  quince,  currant,  gooseberry, 
cranberry,  and  grape. 

The  usual  method  of  making  jelly  is  to  use  equal  quanti- 
ties of  juice  and  sugar.  This,  however,  makes  a  sauce  too 
rich  to  be  healthful.  Its  transparent  beauty  as  it  stands 
upon  the  plate,  pleasing  the  eye  and  giving  an  artistic  finish 
to  the  appearance  of  the  table,  is  something  that  the  house- 
wife naturally  dislikes  to  banish  ;  and  hence  her  inventive 
powers  are  put  to  work  to  keep  the  beauty,  and  at  the  same 
time  produce  a  toothsome  and  harmless  dish. 

There  is  certainly  nothing  injurious  in  the  pure  juice  of 
fruit.  Indeed,  it  is  less  harmful  than  the  fruit  in  its  natural 
state,  as  the  skins,  seeds,  and  fibrous  tissue  have  been 
rejected.  If  in  this  state  it  could  be  made,  without  the  aid 
of  sugar,  into  jelly,  it  would  be  perfectly  wholesome. 

This  has  been  found  to  be  possible  with  some  fruits. 
Other  fruit  juices  which  will  not  jelly  alone,  can  be  made  to 
do  so  by  the  use  of  sago.  When  sago  is  used,  it  is  best  not 
to  keep  the  jelly  long,  but  make  it  as  it  is  required  for  use. 

The  juice  of  the  fruits  may  be  extracted  in  the  fruit  sea- 
son, and  canned,  ready  to  be  used  at  any  time.  In  making 
jelly  always  use  a  good  granite  or  porcelain-lined  kettle,  as 
tin  or  iron  coming  in  contact  with  acid  fruit  not  only  spoils 
its  delicate  flavor,  but  renders  it  more  difficult  to  digest. 

[233] 


234  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

APPLE  JELLY. 

This  may  be  made  from  almost  any  apples,  although  the 
Siberian  crab-apple  is  the  best,  as  it  contains  more  pectose, 
and  will  jelly  more  easily.  Do  not  pare,  but  core  the  apples, 
after  washing  well,  and  cutting  into  pieces.  Slowly  boil  in  a 
porcelain  or  granite  stew-pan  for  an  hour  or  more,  and  pour 
into  a  jelly-bag,  allowing  all  the  juice  to  drain  out  that  will 
without  squeezing.  Pour  juice  back  into  stew-pan,  and  cook 
until  one  half  of  it  has  evaporated;  then  add  just  enough 
sugar  to  sweeten  (about  |  of  a  cupful  to  i  quart  of  juice),  and 
allow  it  to  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Pour  into  glass  jelly  cups 
or  glass  pint  cans,  and  seal  in  the  same  manner  as  fruit  is 
sealed.  It  will  not  keep  without  sealing,  as  do  jellies  which 
are  one  half  sugar. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY. 

Examine  the  cranberries,  throwing  out  all  soft  ones.  Put 
in  a  granite  stew-pan,  pouring  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  the 
berries,  and  cook  until  the  skins  burst.  Put  through  a 
colander  or  fruit  press  to  take  out  the  skins.  Boil  the  pulp  £.nd 
juice  until  one  third  of  the  quantity  has  evaporated,  after  which 
add  sufficient  sugar  to  make  palatable,-- about  i  cup  of  sugar 
to  i  quart  of  cranberries  before  they  are  cooked.  Boil  about 
twenty  minutes  after  adding  sugar.  Can  in  self-sealing  cans; 
or,  if  for  immediate  use,  pour  while  hot  into  the  mold,  and 
set  away  to  get  perfectly  cold,  when  the  mixture  should  be 
very  firm,--  sufficiently  so  to  allow  slicing  with  a  knife.  If 
only  the  juice  of  the  cranberry  is  used,  a  much  more  clear 
and  transparent  jelly  may  be  obtained.  However,  the  pulp 
will  cause  it  to  become  more  solid  and  firm,  with  less 
boiling. 


JELLIES.  235 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Take  the  juice  from  the  currant  as  directed  in  recipe  for 
Currant  Wine.  Put  into  a  granite  stew-pan,  and  let  it  boil 
until  one  half  of  the  quantity  has  evaporated;  then  add 
enough  sugar  to  make  palatable,--  about  i  cup  to  i  quart  of 
the  juice.  No  sugar  need  be  added,  however,  unless  desired, 
as  the  juice  will  jelly  without  it,  but  is  slightly  too  acid  to  be 
relished.  Let  it  boil  for  twenty  minutes  after  the  addition  of 
the  sugar,  and  then  pour  into  glass  pint  cans.  Place  them  on  a 
tray  or  board,  cover  with  a  glass,  and  set  them  out  in  the  sun- 
shine for  several  hours.  If  they  are  to  be  sealed,  put  on 
covers  and  seal  while  the  jelly  is  hot,  and  then  put  them 
out  in  the  sunshine.  The  sunlight  will  materially  thicken 
the  jelly. 

Sunlight  makes  better  jelly  than  that  made  by  any  other 
process,  but  it  is  quite  tedious  to  make  in  this  way.  It  may 
be  done  by  filling  tumblers  about  two  thirds  full  of  fruit  juice, 
sweetened  to  suit  the  taste.  Cover  with  a  pane  of  glass,  and 
set  out  in  the  bright  sunlight.  Three  or  four  days  is  the  time 
required  to  make  a  firm  jelly  in  this  manner;  but  it  will  be 
much  lighter  colored,  and  have  a  much  better  flavor.  This 
method  is  especially  valuable  in  making  grape  and  huckleberry 
jellies,  as  boiling  makes  them  almost  black  in  color.  If  a 
very  light-colored  jelly  is  desired,  take  the  juice  of  the  white 
currant  or  the  quince,  and  make  jelly  from  it  by  the  sunlight 
process. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

Use  the  quince  wine,  and  make  it  the  same  as  apple 
jelly  (see  recipes  for  Quince  Wine  and  Apple  Jelly).  It  can 
be  made  without  sugar,  but  is  better  when  sweetened  a 


236  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

little,  as  it  is  quite  acid.  A  less  acid  jelly  and  an  equally 
well-flavored  one  can  be  obtained  by  using  half  sweet- 
apple  juice. 

SWEET-APPLE  JELLY. 

Take  the  juice  of  sweet  apples,  such  as  Talman  Sweets. 
However,  any  kind  will  probably  do  as  well,  if  they  are  juicy 
and  sweet.  Put  the  juice  in  a  stew-pan,  and  boil  until  only 
one  fourth  of  the  quantity  remains.  Then  add  a  very  little 
sugar  for  flavoring  (about  i  tablespoonful  to  i  quart),  and  let 
it  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  from  the  stove,  cover, 
and  allow  to  stand  until  the  next  day.  If  it  is  not  quite  firm 
enough,  reheat  it,  and  when  it  reaches  the  boiling-point,  let 
it  cook  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  then  seal  it  in  cans.  If 
not  very  firm  at  first,  it  may  be  thickened  by  placing  it  in  the 
window  where  the  sun  may  shine  upon  it. 

RASPBERRY  JELLY. 

Take  the  raspberry  wine  (see  recipe),  and  boil  it  until  only 
one  third  of  the  quantity  remains,  after  which  add  an  amount 
of  sugar  sufficient  to  make  it  palatable,  which  will  perhaps  be 
about  i  cupful  for  each  quart  of  red  raspberries,  and  a  some- 
what smaller  quantity  for  the  black  ones.  Allow  it  to  boil  for 
twenty  minutes  longer,  pour  into  glass  pint  cans,  and  seal. 
If  not  quite  the  right  consistency,  it  may  be  made  more  firm 
by  being  placed  in  the  sunlight  for  a  day  or  two. 

BLACKBERRIES  AND  MULBERRIES. 

The  juice  of  these  fruits  may  be  jellied  the  same  as  the 
raspberries.  However,  the  mulberry  does  not.  require  more 
than  a  very  small  quantity  of  sugar, —  only  i  tablespoonful  to 
each  pint  of  juice. 


JELLIES.  237 

GRAPE  JELLY. 

This  is  best  made  just  before  it  is  wanted  for  use.  Take 
some  of  the  canned  grape  wine  (see  recipe),  and  add  sugar 
to  taste.  Pour  into  a  glass  dish,  or  more  than  one  dish  if 
there  should  be  more  than  a  pint;  for  it  is  better  not  to  have 
it  too  deep  in  the  dish.  Cover  with  a  glass,  and  set  in  the 
sunlight,  allowing  it  to  be  in  the  light  for  three  or  four  days; 
at  the  end  of  which  time  it  will  in  all  probability  be  an  excel- 
lent jelly,  more  lightly  colored  and  of  a  better  flavor  than  it 
would  have  been  had  it  been  boiled.  However,  if  desired,  it 
may  be  boiled  in  the  same  way  as  other  jellies.  Be  careful, 
though,  not  to  add  sugar  until  the  boiled  juice  is  nearly  ready 
to  be  removed  from  the  stove. 

PEACH  JELLY. 

Peach  juice  will  not  jelly  without  the  aid  of  sugar,  although 
a  very  pretty  mold  jelly  can  be  made  of  it  by  the  use  of  sago 
to  thicken  it.  The  peach  peelings  are  better  than  the  entire 
peach,  as  the  pectose  is  nearly  all  next  to  the  skin. 

Wash  the  peaches  well  before  paring,  and  then  take  the 
parings  and  cook  them  for  an  hour  or  more.  Strain  through 
cheese-cloth,  and  return  the  juice  to  the  stove,  boiling  until 
only  one  third  of  the  quantity  remains.  Then  add  a  little 
sugar  to  make  it  palatable;  also  add  to  each  quart  of  the 
juice  |  cup  of  sago,  which  has  been  prepared  by  being  thor- 
oughly washed,  and  soaked  in  cold  water  for  two  or  three 
hours.  Allow  this  mixture  to  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  watch- 
ing to  see  that  it  does  not  stick  on  the  bottom.  Pour  into  an 
oiled  mold,  to  cool.  After  becoming  cold,  it  may  be  loos- 
ened from  the  edges,  and  turned  upon  the  dish  in  which  it  is 
to  be  served. 


23$  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

PEAR  JELLY. 

Pears  are  similar  to  peaches,  in  that  they  will  not  jelly 
without  the  addition  of  sugar  or  something  to  thicken  the 
juice.  Make  the  same  as  peach  jelly,  adding  the  sugar 
and  sago  about  twenty  minutes  before  juice  is  taken  from 
the  stove. 

STRAWBERRY  JELLY. 

Take  the  juice  of  the  strawberry  (see  Strawberry  Wine 
recipe),  pour  into  a  granite  stew-pan,  and  boil  until  two 
thirds  of  it  has  been  evaporated,  after  which  add  to  the 
remaining  third  sufficient  sugar  to  suit  the  taste  (about  i 
cup  to  each  quart),  and  boil  twenty  minutes  longer.  Try 
a  small  amount,  putting  it  upon  a  cold  dish.  If  it  jellies, 
remove  from  the  stove;  pour  into  glass  pint  cans,  and  seal. 
If  a  very  clear  jelly  should  be  desired,  beat  the  white  of 
i  egg  for  each  quart  of  juice,  and  add  to  the  juice  before 
heating.  When  it  begins  to  boil,  the  egg  will  come  to  the 
top,  bringing  all  the  small  particles  of  pulp  and  skin  with 
it.  It  may  then  be  skimmed  off,  and  the  jelly  will  be  clear. 
Care  should  be  taken  always  to  remove  the  scum  from  the 
jelly  as  soon  as  it  rises  to  the  surface. 

HUCKLEBERRY  JELLY. 

Use  the  juice  of  the  huckleberry,  prepared  the  same  as 
for  huckleberry  wine.  Pour  juice  into  a  granite  stew-pan, 
and  cook  it  until  only  one  half  of  the  original  quantity 
remains.  Add  ^  cup  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  the  juice, 
after  which  boil  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  more.  Try 
a  small  amount  in  a  saucer;  and  if  it  should  thicken,  it  is 
ready  to  be  canned  or  molded.  The  huckleberry  is  not 
very  acid,  and  is  therefore  quite  appetizing  when  only  a 


JELLIES  239 

little  sprinkling-  of  sugar,  sufficient  to  bring  out  the  taste 
of  the  berry,  is  added.  It  makes  a  very  dark  jelly;  but 
it  is  nice  to  use  between  layers  of  white  cakes,  or  upon 
puddings,  because  of  the  striking  contrast  in  the  colors. 
It  can  be  eaten  by  those  who  can  not  eat  acid  fruits;  and 
as  the  skins  have  been  rejected,  it  is  easy  of  digestion,  be- 
sides being  very  edible  and  nutritious. 

GOOSEBERRY  JELLY. 

Take  the  gooseberry  just  before  it  begins  to  ripen. 
Cook  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  and  pour  into  a  jelly- 
bag,  draining  overnight  or  for  several  hours.  Pour  the  juice 
into  a  stew-pan,  and  boil  until  only  one  half  of  it  remains, 
after  which  add  sugar  to  suit  the  taste,- -  about  i  cup  to 
each  quart  of  juice.  Boil  twenty  minutes  longer,  skimming 
off  scum  as  it  rises.  Test  a  small  quantity  in  a  saucer. 
If  it  jellies,  remove  from  stove,  and  can  or  mold.  Ripe 
gooseberries  are  much  sweeter,  but  will  not  jelly  without 
the  addition  of  sugar  or  sago  to  thicken. 

\ 

PINEAPPLE  JELLY. 

Select  a  good,  ripe  pineapple,  cut  off  the  crown,  and 
cut  the  apple  into  quarters,  cutting  from  the  crown  to  the 
stem  end.  Remove  the  hard,  pithy  core,  and  grate  the 
rest,  grating  as  closely  to  the  skin  as  possible.  When  all 
is  grated,  put  into  a  granite  stew-pan,  and  boil  until  nearly 
one  half  the  juice  has  boiled  'away;  then  add  sugar  enough 
to  suit  the  taste,-- perhaps  about  I  cup  to  each  quart  of 
juice.  Let  this  mixture  boil  until  it  jellies,  which  can  be 
ascertained  by  testing  a  little  in  a  saucer.  It  usually  will 
not  take  over  twenty  minutes.  Can  and  seal  the  same 
as  fruit. 


24O  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

LEMON  JELLY. 

Cook  £  cup  of  sago  in  i.\  cups  of  water,  until  it  be- 
comes a  thick  jelly,  and  is  of  an  even  consistency.  It  is  best 
to  cook  it  in  a  double  boiler,  as  it  is  less  liable  to  become 
lumpy,  and  will  not  scorch  on  the  bottom.  When  done, 
add  J  cup  of  lemon-juice,  i  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  little 
strong  saffron  tea,  just  enough  to  make  it  a  lemon  color. 
Boil  for  four  or  five  minutes,  and  turn  into  molds.  When 
cool,  turn  upon  a  plate,  and  decorate  with  slices  of  lemon 
around  the  bottom,  and  blanched  almonds  or  pine-nuts  upon 
the  top. 

TOMATO  JELLY. 

Stew  i  quart  of  tomatoes  until  they  are  soft.  Strain  the 
pulp  through  a  fine  wire  sieve,  or  a  cheese-cloth  bag.  To  each 
pint  of  strained  tomatoes,  add  ^  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  and 
i  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  which  has  been  dissolved  in  ^ 
cup  of  cold  water.  Put  this  mixture  into  a  double  boiler,  and 
cook  for  twenty  minutes,  stirring  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
Turn  into  molds,  and  allow  to  become  cold. 

ORANGE   BASKETS. 

A  very  unique  way  of  serving  jelly  is  in  baskets  made  from 
oranges.  Select  seven  symmetrical  oranges  of  an  equal  size, 
choosing  those  having  a  fresh,  bright  golden  rind.  Wash 
thoroughly  and  wipe  dry.  With  a  sharp  knife,  cut  them  into 
baskets,  letting  a  part  of  the  rind  remain  to  serve  as  the  han- 
dle. After  having  removed  the  two  sections,  the  knife  may 
easily  be  run  underneath  the  rind,  on  the  inside,  separating  it 
from  the  pulp  of  the  fruit.  Then  cut  away  the  top  part  of 
the  orange.  The  top  part  of  the  pulp  may  be  taken  out 


JELLIES.  241 

whole,  and  served  with  the  basket,  if  desired.  With  a  spoon 
press  out  the  remaining  juice  in  the  basket,  and  with  the  aid 
of  the  fingers,  loosen  the  fibrous  tissues  from  the  rind,  remov- 
ing them  and  leaving  the  rind  free. 

The  baskets   are   then   ready   for   trimming.      Wipe  them 
as  dry  as  possible,  and   trim   around  the  edge  with  a  frosting 


(  (RAM ;K   MASKETS. 

made  by  beating  stiff  half  of  the  white  of  I  egg,  and  adding 
enough  pulverized  sugar  to  knead  well;  then  take  a  small 
piece  and  roll  on  a  marble  slab  or  large  platter  until  it  forms 
a  smooth  roll  of  the  same  size  in  diameter  throughout  its 
length.  The  roll  should  be  about  as  large  as  a  small  lead- 
pencil.  Put  this  upon  the  edges  of  the  basket,  and  press 
down  from  the  inside.  See  the  accompanying  cut,  from 
which  you  can  form  an  idea  how  to  make  the  baskets,  as 


-4-  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

well  as  the  manner  of  putting  on  the  frosting.  If  desired, 
the  frost  in,-  may  bo  omitted,  and  the  edge  of  the  cup  scalloped 
or  notched  Just  prior  to  serving,  till  with  any  bright  red 
jelly.  Place  a  basket  at  each  plate. 

JELLIED  ORANGES. 

Delect  good,  large  Florida  oranges.  Cut  a  small  hole  in 
the  blow  end,  and  remove  the  juice  and  fiber  of  the  orange. 
Then  put  the  orange  "shells"  on  in  cold  water,  and  let  them 
come  to  a  boil.  This  will  remove  the  bitter  taste  from  the 
white  portion  of  the  orange.  Then  fill  the  orange  shells  with 
some  good,  stiff  jelly.  The  jelly  should  be  warm  when  put 
in,  and  allowed  to  become  cold.  When  ready  to  serve,  cut 
the  orange  into  quarters,  cutting  through  the  jelly.  Serve  a 
quarter  each  in  individual  sauce-dishes.  This  makes  a  very 
striking,  artistic  dish. 

BAKED  APPLES  AND  BUTTER. 

Select  good,  tart  apples,  remove  the  core,  and  fill  the 
cavity  with  a  mixture  of  peanut  butter  and  sugar,  about  half 
and  half,  and  a  little  sprinkling  of  sassafras.  Mix  the  ingre- 
dients well  before  filling  in.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
tender,  but  do  not  leave  too  long  as  they  will  fall  to  pieces. 
Serve  cold,  with  or  without  cream. 

GRAPE  APPLE. 

Select  any  good,  tart  apple,  pare,  quarter,  and  core. 
Steam  in  a  steam-cooker  with  a  little  water  until  perfectly 
tender,  but  not  until  it  has  fallen  to  pieces.  Take  some 
grape  juice,  dilute  it  one  half,  sweeten  to  taste,  put  in  the 
steamed  apples,  and  let  them  stand  in  the  hot  juice  for  ten 


JELLIES.  243 

minutes;  but  the  juice  must  not  boil  or  the  apples  will  become 
mushy.  When  done,  the  apples  should  be  of  a  bright  pink 
color. 

STRAWBERRY  FRITTERS. 

Take  2  eggs,  I  cup  of  almond  cream,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Crush  I  pint  of  straw- 
berries, sweeten  and  spread  them  between  2  slices  of  bread, 
cut  in  any  shape  desired;  press  well  together,  dip  in  the  bat- 
ter, and  cook  on  a  soapstone  under  a  cover.  Any  fruit  jams 
or  jellies  may  be  used  instead  of  strawberries.  Some  prefer 
to  have  the  bread  buttered  with  nut  butter  before  putting  in 
the  fruit. 


FOR   NEW   RECIPES. 


244! 


FOR  NEW  RECIPES. 


[245] 


LEGUMES. 


THE  Legume  family  consists  of  peas,  beans,  lentils,  and  like 
foods.  The  peanut  may  be  classed  with  this  family  also, 
although  it  is  commonly  classed  with  nuts.  The  peanut 
resembles  nuts  on  account  of  its  richness  in  fats,  but  in  other 
respects  resembles  the  legume.  Legumes  are  very  rich  in 
nutritive  elements,  and  are  well  adapted  to  take  the  place  of 
meat.  They  are  indeed  much  richer  in  muscle-making  mate- 
rial, having  more  than  three  times  the  amount  of  albumen 
contained  in  meat,  but  the  best  of  it  all  is  they  do  not  contain 
any  poison  or  decaying  tissue  as  does  the  meat.  Legumes 
require  prolonged  cooking;  three  or  four  hours  is  not  too 
long.  The  long  cooking  brings  out  their  richness  and  flavor, 
and  makes  them  palatable  without  any  seasonings  with  the 
exception  of  a  little  salt. 

STEWED  BEANS. 

Select  small,  white,  navy-beans,  as  they  are  easier  to  cook, 
and  their  skin  is  thin,  tender,  and  easily  masticated.  Let 
them  soak  overnight,  and  in  the  morning  put  them  to  cook  in 
cold  water  (soft  water  is  best),  cooking  gently  until  perfectly 
tender.  Add  salt  to  suit  the  taste,  and  \  cup  of  peanut  cream 
to  each  pint  of  cooked  beans. 

BAKED  BEANS. 

Look  over,  wash,  and  soak  overnight  i  pint  of  white 
beans.  In  the  morning  cook  in  soft  water  if  possible  ;  hard 
water  will  do,  but  it  takes  longer  to  cook  them.  Cook  until 

I  -4"  1 


LEGUMES.  247 

tender  but  not  mushy.  Season  with  salt,  pour  over  them  nut 
cream  made  of  nut  butter  until  it  nearly  covers  them,  and 
bake  in  the  oven  three  or  four  hours,  stirring  occasionally. 
When  done,  they  should  be  a  rich  brown  color  clear  through. 
A  little  sugar  or  molasses  may  be  added  if  desired. 

MALT  BAKED  BEANS. 

Prepare  like  the  preceding  recipe;  when  tender,  add  salt 
to  taste,  and  for  each  quart  of  cooked  beans  add  I  tablespoon- 
ful  of  nut  butter  and  i  tablespoonful  of  malt  extract.  Bake 
in  a  bean  baker  if  you  have  one  ;  if  not,  a  common  bake  dish 
will  do,  but  more  liquid  will  be  necessary  on  account  of  the 
evaporation.  They  should  be  covered  with  nut  milk,  and 
stirred  occasionally  to  keep  the  top  ones  from  getting  hard. 
Baking  for  a  long  time  improves  them  very  much. 

BEAN  OMELET. 

Take  I  cup  of  sifted  beans  (the  small  white  navy-bean  is 
the  best),  3  eggs  (the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately), 
and  A  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Fold  the  well-beaten  yolk  into  the 
beans,  which  should  be  put  through  a  colander  or  sieve.  The 
salt  should  be  added  to  the  whites,  and  they  should  be  beaten 
very  stiff,  and  then  carefully  folded  in.  Put  in  a  bake  tin, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  they  are  a  nice  brown  shade. 

They  may  be  cooked  in  the  frying-pan  if  desired,  and 
one  half  folded  upon  the  other.  The  pan  must  be  oiled 
with  nut  oil. 

NUT  MEATOSE    BEANS. 

Prepare  and  cook  the  beans  as  for  stewed  beans,  but 
before  they  are  very  tender,  cut  nutmeatose  into  small 
cubes,  using  about  i  cup  of  the  nutmeatose  to  i  pint  of  the 


248  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

cooked  beans,  salt  to  taste,  and  gently  fold  them  together, 
and  pour  into  a  bean  baker,  allowing  plenty  of  water.  Bake 
for  three  or  four  hours,  or  as  long  as  possible  to  have  them 
ready  for  dinner.  A  half-hour  before  serving,  remove  the 
cover  and  allow  them  to  brown  on  top.  They  should  be  quite 
dry  when  done.  If  a  bean  baker  can  not  be  had,  bake  in  an 
earthen  pan,  and  cover  with  a  kettle  cover. 

MASHED  BEANS  AND  POTATOES. 

Take  i  cup  of  beans  that  have  been  rubbed  through  a 
colandrr,  and  add  to  them  i  cup  of  mashed  potatoes,  and 
salt  and  nut  butter  to  suit  the  taste.  Mix  all  very  thoroughly 
and  heat  in  a  spider,  stirring  occasionally  until  they  are 
quite  dry.  Cold  left-over  potatoes  and  beans  are  just  as  good. 

STEWED  LIMA  BEANS. 

Look  over,  wash,  and  put  to  cook  in  cold  water  on  the 
ba<  k  of  the  stove  or  where  they  will  not  cook  fast.  When 
perfectly  tender,  season  with  salt  and  nut  butter,  and  serve. 

BAKED  LIMA  BEANS. 

When  ready  to  cook,  put  in  cold  water  and  let  come  to  a 
boil.  When  the  skins  look  puffed  and  loose  from  the  bean, 
drain  off  the  water  and  pour  over  them  a  little  cold  water, 
letting  it  drain  off.  Then  take  the  beans  between  the  fingers 
and  press  them,  and  the  beans  will  slip  out  from  the  skins. 
It  will  not  take  long  to  remove  the  skins  from  a  mess  of 
beans.  Then  put  to  cook,  stirring  occasionally,  that  they  do 
not  stick  to  the  kettle.  When  cooked  to  a  mush  and  per- 
fectly smooth  and  quite  dry,  season  with  salt  and  nut  butter 
to  taste,  and  bake  in  a  pudding  dish  until  of  a  nice  brown. 
Serve  hot. 


LEGUMES.  249 

STEWED  KIDNEY  BEANS. 

Take  I  cup  of  dry  kidney-beans,  wash  well,  put  on  in  cold 
water,  and  cook  slowly  for  three  hours  or  more,  until  perfect  ly 
tender.  When  nearly  done,  salt  to  taste,  and  just  before 
serving,  flavor  with  nut  butter. 

KIDNEY-BEAN    ROAST. 

Cook  the  beans  as  in  the  previous  recipe,  and  sift  through 
a  colander.  Then  to  I  pint  of  sifted  beans  use  I  pint  of  sifted 
peanuts,  \  cup  of  zwieola  (see  recipe  for  making  zwieola), 
and  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  if  desired  a  little  sage  and 
grated  onion  may  be  used.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  together. 
If  too  dry,  a  little  nut  milk  may  be  added.  Turn  into  an 
oiled  bake  dish,  and  bake  to  a  nice  brown. 

SIFTED  PEAS. 

Soak  Scotch  peas  overnight;  in  the"  morning  look  over, 
discarding  all  the  poor  ones,  wash,  and  boil  in  soft  water. 
Let  them  boil  quite  hard  for  the  first  half-hour,  as  that  will 
remove  the  skins,  and  they  will  come  to  the  top  and  can  be 
skimmed  off,  making  it  easier  to  sift.  When  perfectly  tender, 
put  through  a  colander.  Season  with  salt  and  nut  butter  to 
taste,  and  bake  in  the  oven.  Serve  hot. 

PEAS  BAKED  WITH  NUTMEATO. 

Take  3  cups  of  sifted  peas  (prepared  according  to  preceding 
recipe),  i  cup  of  nutmeato  grated  or  mashed.  Season  with 
sage  and  salt  to  taste;  lastly  add  the  beaten  white  of  the  egg. 
Put  in  an  oiled  tin,  and  bake  until  nicely  browned.  Grated 
onion  or  celery  may  be  added  instead  of  the  sage  if  desired. 


250  Cl'IDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

CANNED   GREEN  PEAS  WITH  NUTMEATO. 

Cut  the  nutineato  into  small  pieces,  about  one-third  inch 
cubes,  and  cook  in  a  little  water  for  two  hours  in  a  double 
boiler  or  in  a  dish  set  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  where  it  wrill 
not  boil  but  gently  simmer.  Meanwhile  cook  the  peas  until 
tender;  when  done,  they  should  In-  quite  dry;  flavor  with  salt 
to  taste  and  add  the  cooked  nutineato.  Serve  while  hot. 

VEGETABLE  TURKEY. 

To  i  pint  of  sifted  "peas  add  about  i  cup)  of  water;  the 
quantity  to  be  added  depends  upon  the  amount  of  moisture  in 
the  peas;  then  add  i  well-beaten  egg,  I  tablespoonful  of  nut 
butter  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  granola, 
and  sage  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  bake  in  an 
oiled  pudding  dish  until  brown;  it  should  be  quite  dry  when 
done. 

STEWED  SPLIT   PEAS. 

Look  over,  wash,  and  put  to  cook  in  cold  water  (soft 
water  is  preferable);  cook  very  slowly,  allowing  them  to 
swell,  being  careful  that  they  do  not  get  dry  and  burn. 
Replenish  with  hot  water  if  needed;  cook  until  mushy.  Sea- 
son with  salt  to  suit  the  taste,  and  if  desired,  add  i  teaspoonful 
of  nut  butter  to  I  pint  of  the  stewed  peas. 

BAKED   SPLIT   PEAS. 

Cook  like  the  preceding  recipe,  letting  them  boil  very  dry; 
then  add  salt  to  suit  the  taste,  and  to  each  pint  of  the  cooked 
peas,  add  i  teaspoonful  of  nut  butter  dissolved  in  as  little 
water  as  possible.  Put  in  an  oiled  pudding  dish,  and  bake 
until  brown.  A  little  grated  onion  or  sage  may  be  added  if 
desired. 


LEGUMES.  251 

SIFTED  LENTILS. 

Look  over  and  wash  the  lentils  well  and  put  to  soak  in 
cold  water  for  at  least  two  hours,  longer  if  possible.  Then 
cook  slowly  until  perfectly  tender,  and  rub  through  a  colan- 
der. Season  with  salt  and  a  little  nut  butter  if  desired. 
Lentils,  like  peas  and  beans,  are  so  rich  in  nutrition  that  they 
need  very  little  seasoning. 

BAKED  SIFTED  LENTILS. 

Look  over,  wash,  and  put  to  soak  overnight,  or  at  least 
for  two  or  three  hours;  then  put  into  cold  soft  water  and  cook 
slowly  for  two  or  three  hours,  or  until  they  are  perfectly 
tender.  If  cooked  in  hard  water,  it  will  take  much  longer. 
Sift  through  a  colander  to  remove  the  skins.  Season  with  a 
pinch  of  salt,  and  a  very  little  nut  cream  if  desired.  Bake  in 
the  oven  until  brown  on  top. 

SAVORY  LENTILS. 

Take  I  cup  of  sifted  lentils  and  i  cup  of  bread-crumbs. 
Moisten  with  rich  nut  milk,  and  add  \  teaspoonful  of  sage,  i 
teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley,  and  salt  to  taste.  Bake  until 
firm. 

VEGETABLE  ROAST. 

Take  2  cups  of  strained  lentils,  i  cup  of  strained  tomatoes, 
|  cup  of  mashed  nutmeato,  f  cup  of  mixed  granola  and  glu- 
ten, i  egg,  and  onion  and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  thoroughly,  and 
bake  in  a  basin  until  solid  enough  to  slice  when  cold. 

BOILED  PEANUTS. 

First  blanch  the  peanuts,  which  can  be  done  by  heating 
in  the  peanut  roaster  or  in  the  oven  until  they  are  quite  hot, 
but  not  browned  in  the  least.  Let  them  cool  in  a  dry  place, 


252  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

and  when  nearly  cold,  the  skins  can  easily  be  removed  by 
rubbing  in  the  sieve  or  between  the  hands;  or  they  can  be 
blanched  by  pouring  boiling  water  on  them,  and  letting  them 
-land  in  it  until  the  skins  become  loosened;  then  rub  off  with 
the  hands.  When  blanched,  put  into  cold  soft  water  to  cook, 
as  they  cook  quicker  in  soft  water  than  in  hard  water --in 
about  one  half  the  time.  \Vhen  perfectly  tender,  salt  and 
let  stew  until  they  are  well  seasoned  throughout.  Serve  hot. 

MASHED   PEANUTS   WITH    TOMATO. 

Boil  the  peanuts  as  in  the  previous  recipe.  Mash  with  a 
wooden  potato  masher  or  rub  through  a  colander,-- the  latter 
is  preferable.  Then  to  i\  cups  of  quite  dry  sifted  peanuts 
add  A  cup  of  sifted  tomatoes  and  salt  to  taste.  Reheat,  and 
if  too  thin,  let  some  of  the  moisture  evaporate.  Serve  hot. 

BAKED  PEANUTS. 

Take  I  pint  of  sifted  peanuts,  add  \  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i 
well-beaten  egg,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  granola,  or  grated 
/wieback  will  do.  Mix  all  well  together  and  put  in  an  oiled 
tin,  and  bake  until  brown  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  hot 

PEA  AND  PECAN   PUREE. 

Cook  i.\  cups  of  Scotch  peas  until  tender,  being  careful 
to  have  them  quite  dry  when  done.  Rub  through  a  colander 
and  add  to  them  i  cup  of  strained  tomatoes,  I  cup  of  pecan 
meal,  and  salt  to  suit  the  taste.  Reheat  and  serve. 

PEA   PUREE. 

Take  2  cups  of  sifted  peas  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  white 
flour.  Rub  the  Hour  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water,  add  to  the 
peas,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  fifteen  minutes.  If 
desired,  add  ^  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon-  or  tomato-juice. 


VEGETABLES, 


rPHl£  vegetables  belong  to  that  class  of  foods  of  which  the 
1  Lord  spoke  when  he  said  to  Adam,  "Thou  shalt  eat  the 
herb  of  the  field."  Gen.  3:18.  They  consist  of  the  leaves, 
stalks,  and  tubers,  as  well  as  the  seed  pods  and  unripe  seeds 
of  plants. 

Vegetables  are  not  as  nutritious  as  either  the  grains  or  the 
legumes,  nor  as  easily  digested,  but  are  useful  in  the  bill  of 
fare,  as  they  afford  a  variety,  and  can  be  obtained  in  all  parts 
of  the  world.  They  also  give  bulk  to  the  food  so  that  one  is 
not  so  likely  to  overeat.  They  contain  salts  in  a  form  that 
the  system  can  use,  as  well  as  phosphate  and  other  elements 
essential  for  the  blood. 

\Yhen  vegetables  are  properly  cooked  and  are  combined 
with  the  right  foods,  they  are  not  so  hard  of  digestion, 
and  many  nutritious  and  palatable  dishes  can  be  made 
from  them. 

Great  care  should  be  taken  to  see  that  they  are  well 
cooked  and  yet  not  overdone.  If  they  are  not  thoroughly 
done,  it  makes  harder  work  for  the  digestive  organs,  neither 
are  they  so  palatable;  and  if  they  are  overdone,  it  renders 
them  soggy  and  tasteless. 

Vegetables  should  be  served  as  soon  as  cooked,  as  standing 
injures  their  taste  more  than  that  of  most  foods. 

Green  vegetables  should  be  used  as  soon  as  gathered  or  as 
soon  after  as  possible.  Sweet  corn  especially  looses  much  of 
its  flavor  by  standing. 

[  253  ] 


-54  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

| 

Vegetables  and  fruit  should  not  be  eaten  at  the  same 
meal,  as  they  form  a  bad  combination.  The  Lord  has  given 
us  light  upon  this  subject  if  we  will  only  look  for  it.  He  has 
told  us,  •  If  we  would  preserve  the  best  health,  we  should 
avoid  eating  vegetables  and  fruit  at  the  same  meal.  If  the 
stomach  is  feeble,  there  will  be  distress,  and  the  brain  will 
be  confused,  and  unable  to  put  forth  mental  effort.  Have 
fruit  at  one  meal  and  vegetables  at  the  next." — The  Youth's 
Instructor,  May  31,  iXyj.. 

But  vegetables  are  classed  in  with  other  foods  that  make 
a  healthful  diet.  "Fruits,  -rains,  and  vegetables  prepared 
in  a  simple  way,  free  from  spice  and  grease  of  all  kinds,  make 
with  milk  and  cream  the  most  healthful  diet.  They  impart 
nourishment  to  the  body,  and  give  a  power  of  endurance  and 
vigor  of  intellect  that  are  not  produced  by  a  stimulating  diet." 
- ' '  Heal tli  ful  Living*  "  />(*>'.  v/iS- 

"  Meat  eating  is  doing  its  work,  for  the  meat    is   diseased. 
We  may  not  long  be   able  to  use  even   milk."   -"Healthful 
Li-cing"  par.  3+9. 

"The  Lord  intends  to  bring  his  people  back  to  live  upon 
simple  fruits,  vegetables,  and  grains." 

POTATOES. 

The  potato  is  the  tuber  of  a  plant  that  is  a  native  of  the 
Andes  from  Chile  to  as  far  north  as  New  Mexico.  It  was 
scarcely  known  until  the  seventeenth  century,  but  since  that 
time  has  been  widely  cultivated,  and  now  produces  a  large 
portion  of  the  food  of  civilized  man. 

There  are  many  varieties  of  the  potato,  differing  in  size, 
color,  and  quality.  The  varieties  usually  cultivated  are  the 
common  white,  or  Irish,  and  the  sweet,  or  yellow,  potato. 
Ol  these  the  sweet  potato  contains  the  more  food  proper- 


VEGETABLES.  255 

ties,  having"  a  total  nutritive  value  of  over  twenty-seven 
percent.;  while  the  total  nutritive  value  of  the  Irish  potato 
is  about  twenty-four  per  cent.  The  potato  has  the  high- 
est nutritive  value  of  any  of  the  vegetables.  It  consists 
principally  of  starch,  but  also  contains  potash,  salts,  and  a 
srhall  percentage  of  albuminous  material,  which  are  needed 
in  the  blood.  The  potato,  when  properly  cooked,  should  be 
dry  and  mealy  ;  then  it  is  easy  of  digestion,  as  the  starch  cells 
have  burst,  and  can  be  digested  by  the  saliva  ;  but  if  it  is 
soggy  and  heavy,  it  is  hard  of  digestion. 

The  reason  why  some  people  think  potatoes  are  hard  to 
digest  is  because  they  are  combined  with  other  foods  which 
make  it  seem  so.  When  eaten  with  fruits  or  dairy  milk, 
there  is  a  disturbance  in  the  digestive  canal,  which  is  laid  to 
the  potato,  but  really  belongs  to  the  poor  combination  of 
foods.  When  eaten  with  nuts,  grains,  or  other  vegetables, 
the  difficulty  will  be  obviated. 

The  potato  should  be  cooked  until  it  is  mealy,  and 
this  is  best  done  by  putting  to  cook  in  boiling  water,  being 
careful  not  to  cook  too  long,  or  they  will  get  watery;  but  they 
should  be  thoroughly  done,  or  the  starch  cells  will  not  have 
been  bursted,  and  can  not  be  reached  or  acted  upon  by  the 
saliva. 

BOILED  POTATOES   <IN  JACKETS). 

Select  medium-sized,  smooth  potatoes,  scrub  them  well 
with  a  vegetable  brush  in  several  waters.  Drop  them  into 
boiling  water,  and  cook  until  tender;  then  drain,  place  back 
on  the  stove,  and  let  them  dry,  raising  the  kettle  and  shaking 
to  let  the  steam  escape  until  they  are  mealy  and  the  skins 
crack.  Serve  at  once  in  their  jackets,  with  nut  gravy  made 
of  raw  peanut  milk. 


256  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

POTATOES  STEWED  WITH  CELERY. 

Pare  and  slice  4  medium-sized  potatoes,  and  mix  with 
tin-in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  celery,  using  only  the  white 
and  tender  part  of  the  celery.  Cover  the  whole  with  nut 
milk,  made  from  almond  or  peanut  butter.  Season  with  salt 
to  taste  and  bake  or  stew  until  tender.  Serve  hot. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

Take  6  medium-sized  potatoes,  pare  and  slice  them,  and 
place  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  an  oiled  baking  dish,  sprinkle 
with  Hour  and  salt.  Then  add  another  layer  of  potatoes,  etc. 
Pour  over  all  enough  nut  milk  to  cover  it.  Place  in  the  oven 
and  bake  slowly  until  tender.  A  grated  onion  or  celery  salt 
may  he  added  if  desired. 

POTATO  SOUFFLE. 

Take  i  cupful  of  mashed  potatoes,  i  egg,  i  tablespoonful 
of  nut  cream,  and  salt  to  taste.  Beat  the  yolk  of  the  egg 
light,  and  add  to  the  mashed  potatoes  with  the  cream  and 
salt.  Beat  until  very  smooth  and  light;  add  the  white  of 
ilu-  i'gg'  whipped  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth,  carefully  folding  it  in; 
turn  into  a  greased  baking  dish,  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

POTATO   PUFFS. 

Take  i  cup  of  mashed  potatoes,  i  egg,  \  cup  of  nut  cream, 
and  salt  to  taste.  Beat  the  egg  light  without  separating. 
and  add  to  the  mashed  potatoes  with  the  cream  and  salt. 
Brat  until  quite  light.  Fill  oiled  gem  irons  with  the  mixture, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Take  out  carefully  with  a  limber 
knife,  and  serve  at  once  on  a  heated  dish. 


VEGETABLES.  257 

STUFFED  POTATOES. 

Bake  4  large,  oval-shaped  potatoes;  while  hot,  cut  through 
center,  crosswise.  Dig  out  inside  with  a  spoon.  Season 
with  nut  cream  and  salt;  whip  until  snowy  white.  Fill  the 
shells  again  with  this  mixture.  Stand  them  upright  in  a 
baking  dish,  and  return  to  the  oven  until  they  brown  over 
the  top.  If  a  fancy  dish  is  desired,  the  potatoes  may  be 
wrapped  in  fringed  tissue  paper,  and  set  with  the  cut  side  up 
in  the  platter  in  which  they  are  served. 

WARMED-OVER  POTATOES. 

Cut  the  potatoes  quite  fine  or  chop  them  and  mix  with 
nut  butter- -  about  i  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  I  pint  of 
potatoes.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  form  or  press  into  cakes 
and  place  in  frying-pan  or  spider,  then  put  on  the  back  part 
of  the  stove  where  it  will  cook  slowly.  It  will  not  need  any 
fat  to  keep  it  from  sticking,  as  the  nut  butter  in  the  potatoes 
will  oil  the  spider.  When  brown  on  one  side,  turn  over  and 
brown  the  other  side.  Serve  hot. 

Browned  potatoes,  browned  mush,  and  all  other  dishes  to 
which  you  desire  to  give  a  fried  flavor,  such  as  croquettes, 
nutmeatose,  cutlets,  etc.,  should  be  dipped  in  very  thin  nut 
butter,  sprinkled  generously  with  parched  corn  flour,  and 
browned  in  a  quick  oven. 

MASHED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Wash  thoroughly,  and  remove  all  bad  spots;  then  boil  with 
the  skins  on  until  tender.  Then  remove  the  skins  and  mash, 
or  it  is  better  to  put  through  a  colander.  Season  with  peanut 
cream  and  salt  to  taste,  and  bake  in  a  pudding  dish  until 
nicely  browned.  Serve  warm. 
>7 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


ESCALLOPED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

i 

Put  well-boiled  sweet  potatoes  through  a  colander,  and  to 
2  cups  of  potatoes  add  2  cups  of  peanut  cream,  2  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  zwieola.  Salt  to  taste.  Bake 
in  the  oven  until  nicely  browned. 

PINIC  POTATOES. 

Bake  as  many  potatoes  as  desired ;  carefully  cut  cap  off  the 
ends  so  that  they  can  be  replaced.  Then  remove  the  inside 
of  the  potatoes  with  a  teaspoon,  add  salt  and  a  little  nut  milk, 
and  whip  it  light  with  a  fork;  then  add  to  it  some  tender 
cabbage  chopped  very  fine,  seasoned  with  roasted  almond 
meal,  celery,  salt,  lemon-juice,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and 
a  hard-boiled  egg;  fold  into  the  light  potato  and  fill  the  shells. 
Replace  the  lid  with  a  little  sprig  of  parsley  peeping  from  be- 
neath it.  For  a  fancy  dish,  they  are  pretty  wrapped  in 
fringed  paper. 

BROWNED  POTATOES. 

Take  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  slice  about  one  eighth  to 
one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick;  place  them  upon  an  oiled  tin, 
brush  them  over  with  peanut  cream,  and  sprinkle  upon  them 
some  corn  pepper  (see  directions  for  making  elsewhere)  and 
a  little  salt;  then  bake  in  a  very  quick  oven  until  the  potatoes 
are  of  a  nice  brown,  and  serve  at  once. 

YOUNG  POTATOES. 

Boil  until  tender,  slice,  add  grated  onions,  salt,  and  raw 
peanut  milk;  bake  until  done. 


VEGETABLES.  259 


POTATO  BALLS. 

Mash  some  nice  mealy  potatoes,  adding  a  little  nut  cream, 
the  yolk  of  i  egg,  and  salt  to  taste.  Beat  until  very  light, 
then  roll  into  balls;  brush  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  nut  cream, 
place  on  an  oiled  tin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Make  the 
balls  about  the  size  of  the  yolk  of  an  egg. 

These  are  nice  to  serve  with  mock  fish. 

If  preferred,  the  balls  may  be  coated  with  equal  parts  of 
pine-nut  and  corn-meal  rubbed  together. 


PARSNIPS. 

FRIED  PARSNIPS. 

When  cleaned,  halve  the  parsnips,  and  boil  until  tender  in 
salted  water,  and  then  fry  in  nutcoa  or  peanut  oil.  They  are 
as  nice  as  those  fried  in  butter,  but  we  do  not  recommend 
fried  food. 

PARSNIPS  WITH  EGG  SAUCE. 

Clean  and  slice  the  parsnips,  and  cook  until  tender;  salt 
while  cooking.  Drain  off  the  water  if  any  remains,  and  pour 
over  them  an  egg  sauce  as  directed.  (See  index.) 

BAKED  PARSNIPS. 

Scrape  and  cut  in  halves  lengthwise.  Cook  in  boiling, 
salted  water  until  tender,  then  drain  or  let  boil  dry.  Roll  in 
beaten  egg  and  then  in  finely  grated  zwieback.  Place  the 
flat  side  down  on  an  oiled  tin,  and  bake  a  nice  brown. 
Serve  hot. 


260  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

BOILED  CARROTS. 

Wash,  scrape,  and  slice  crosswise,  and  drop  into  boiling, 
salted  water.  Cook  until  very  tender  (they  need  prolonged 
cooking).  When  done,  they  should  be  nearly  dry.  If  there 
is  too  much  water,  drain  off  some  and  season  with  nut  cream 
or  pour  over  them  an  egg  gravy,  directions  for  which  are  given 
elsewhere.  Carrots  may  be  cooked  in  any  of  the  ways  that 
parsnips  are  cooked. 


SALSIFY,  OR  VEGETABLE  OYSTERS. 

In  nutritive  value  they  are  the  same  as  carrots  or  parsnips. 
In  flavor  they  resemble  the  oyster,  and  are  excellent  for 
making  soups. 

SALSIFY  WITH  EGG  SAUCE. 

Select  fresh  vegetable  oysters,  and  let  them  stand  in  cold 
water  for  one  hour  or  more  before  scraping.  Then  remove  the 
skins  by  means  of  a  sharp  knife,  and  drop  into  a  pan  with 
enough  cold  water  to  cover.  The  cold  water  will  prevent 
them  from  turning  black.  When  all  are  scraped,  slice  into  a 
granite  kettle  or  double  boiler  of  hot  water,  and  let  cook  until 
tender.  They  should  be  quite  dry  when  done.  Salt  should 
be  added  a  little  before  they  are  done.  Then  put  into  the 
dish  in  which  they  are  to  be  served,  and  pour  over  them  an 
egg  gravy  according  to  the  recipe.  (See  index.)  Serve  hot. 

ESCALLOPED  SALSIFY. 

Prepare  the  salsify,  or  vegetable  oysters,  like  the  prece- 
ding recipe,  and  when  tender,  place  a  layer  of  the  oysters  in 
the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish,  and  sprinkle  over  the  top  a 
little  zwieola,  then  another  layer  of  oysters  and  more  zwieola, 


VEGETABLES.  26 1 

letting-  the  zwieola  be  on  top.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  sauce 
made  of  nut  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  I  egg.  Let  it  stand  for  a 
while  to  soak  through  to  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  There 
should  be  enough  nut  milk  thoroughly  to  moisten  the  whole. 
Bake  twenty  or  thirty  minutes. 


TURNIPS  AND  RUTABAGAS. 

The  nutritive  value  of  the  turnip  is  very  low,  being  only 
about  five  per  cent.  The  rutabaga  is  more  nutritious,  arid  both 
are  quite  easy  of  digestion  if  thoroughly  cooked.  Be  sure 
and  give  plenty  of  time  to  cook.  Peel  deep  enough  to  remove 
the  tough,  white  fibers  that  are  under  the  skin,  as  they 
are  bitter. 

TURNIP  WITH  EGG  SAUCE. 

Select  good,  crisp  turnips,  as  the  withered  and  pithy  ones 
are  not  good.  Pare,  and  cut  in  slices  about  one  third  of  an  inch 
thick.  Cook  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  which  should  be 
boiling  when  the  turnips  are  added.  Salt  in  time  to  have  it 
seasoned  through,  and  let  them  boil  until  dry,  watching 
closely  that  they  do  not  burn.  Then  prepare  an  egg  gravy 
as  directed  (see  index),  pouring  it  over  the  turnips,  and 
serve  hot. 

MASHED  TURNIPS. 

Pare  the  turnips,  and  cut  them  in  halves  or  quarters,  drop 
into  boiling,  salted  water,  and  cook  until  perfectly  tender.  The 
length  of  time  will  depend  upon  the  size  and  age  of  the  turnips, 
but  be  sure  and  give  them  plenty  of  time.  When  done,  drain 
thoroughly,  and  add  enough  thick  raw  peanut  cream  to  season 
well,  and  more  salt  if  needed.  Mash  fine  and  serve  hot. 


262  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


COOKED  RUTABAGAS. 

The  yellow  turnip,  or  rutabaga,  takes  considerably  longer 
for  cooking  than  the  white,  but  otherwise  can  be  cooked  the 
same.  They  are  rather  strong  flavored,  and  are  improved  if 
mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  mashed  potatoes.  The 
cold  turnip  or  rutabaga  mixed  with  potato  is  nice  if  a  well- 
beaten  egg  is  added,  and  then  made  into  cakes  with  the  hands, 
placed  on  oiled  tins,  brushed  over  with  nut  cream,  and  baked 
in  the  oven  until  a  nice  brown.  Serve  hot. 


ASPARAGUS. 

ASPARAGUS  WITH  GRAVY. 

Cut  the  asparagus  as  far  as  tender  into  half-inch  pieces, 
and  cook  until  tender  in  boiling,  salted  water.  Take  out 
the  asparagus  in  a  dish,  and  have  ready  some  nice  pieces 
of  zwieback;  dip  them  in  the  water  in  which  the  asparagus 
was  boiled.  Lay  them  in  a  dish,  and  the  asparagus  on 
top,  then  make  a  gravy  of  i  pint  of  almond  or  raw  pea- 
nut milk,  thickened  with  a  tablespoonful  of  white  flour.  Salt 
to  taste,  and  pour  over  the  asparagus  and  toast.  Serve 
at  once. 

ASPARAGUS  WITH  NUT  CREAM. 

Cook  finely  sliced  asparagus  in  water  until  very  tender, 
salting  a  few  moments  before  done.  Flavor  with  almond 
cream  made  by  dissolving  i  teaspoonful  of  almond  or  raw  pea- 
nut butter  to  i  pint  of  the  asparagus  with  its  juice.  Roasted 
peanut  butter  does  not  blend  so  well  with  asparagus. 


VEGETABLES.  263 


ASPARAGUS  WITH  EGG  SAUCE, 

Select  very  tender  asparagus  cut  in  one-inch  lengths,  and 
stew  until  tender.  Salt  while  cooking.  Pour  over  the  cooked 
asparagus  an  egg  gravy;  serve  warm.  Make  gravy  as  directed 
elsewhere.  (See  index,  i 

ASPARAGUS  SOUPS. 

Take  some  nicely  toasted  bread  that  has  been  toasted  or 
browned  clear  through,  and  moisten  by  dipping  into  a  dish 
of  hot  water  and  removing  at  once.  Place  on  the  dish  on 
which  it  is  to  be  served,  and  spread  over  the  top  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  the  asparagus  with  egg  gravy.  Serve  hot.  (See 
index  for  directions  for  egg  gravy.) 


EGGPLANT. 

BAKED  EGGPLANT  NO  \. 

Cut  in  slices  one  third  of  an  inch  thick  without  removing  the 
skins.  Soak  in  cold,  salted  water  for  an  hour  or  more,  drain,  and 
dip  each  slice  in  white  flour,  then  in  a  beaten  egg,  and  lastly 
into  finely  grated  zwieback.  Place  on  well-oiled  tins,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  they  are  very  tender.  Serve  hot. 
They  may  be  served  with  an  egg  gravy  if  desired. 

BAKED  EGGPLANT  NO.  2. 

Peel,  slice,  and  salt  the  eggplant,  letting  it  stand  in  the 
salt  for  an  hour  or  more.  Mix  together  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  the  yolk  of  i  raw  egg,  i  tablespoonful  of  peanut  oil  or 
nutcoa,  and  salt.  In  another  bowl,  beat  the  white  of  an  egg 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  put  into  the  batter.  Dry  the  slices  of 


264  GL'IUK    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

eggplant  on  a  clean  cloth,  dip  them   in   the   batter,  and   place 
on  well-oiled  tins.      Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  tender. 


STUFFED  EGGPLANT. 

Parboil  in  hot  water  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  accord- 
ing to  size.  Make  a  hole  in  one  side,  and  take  out  the  seeds. 
Lay  it  in  enough  ice-cold,  salted  water  to  cover  it,  and  let 
stand  for  one  hour;  then  stuff  it  with  a  paste  made  of  bread- 
crumbs, grated  nutrneato,  a  little  minced  parsley,  and  a  little 
salt.  When  stuffed,  cover  the  hole  with  an  oiled  paper,  and 
place  that  side  down  in  an  oiled  pudding  dish.  Add  a  little 
water,  and  bake  in  the  oven.  Baste  occasionally  with  the 
water  in  the  dish,  and  when  it  can  be  easily  pierced  with  a 
straw,  it  is  done.  Take  up  the  eggplant,  roll  it  in  beaten  egg, 
and  then  in  finely  grated  zwieback.  Return  to  the  oven 
again,  and  let  brown.  Serve  sliced  crosswise. 

ESCALLOPED  EGGPLANT. 

Peel  the  eggplant,  slice  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  salt, 
and  let  stand  in  a  bowl  for  one  hour;  then  wash  off  the  salt 
and  put  it  in  a  granite  or  porcelain-lined  kettle,  and  let  it 
boil  until  tender  ;  if  boiled  in  iron  or  tin  it  is  likely  to  be 
dark.  Place  a  layer  in  an  oiled  pudding  dish.  Have  ready 
some  stale  bread  which  has  been  soaking  in  cold  water  for 
an  hour,  pour  off  all  the  water  possible,  and  add  to  it  i  cup 
of  strained  tomatoes,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  nutcoa  or  peanut 
or  almond  oil,  and  a  little  salt.  Put  a  layer  of  this  on  the 
eggplant,  then  another  layer  of  eggplant,  and  so  on,  placing 
on  the  top  a  layer  of  grated  xwieback,  sprinkled  over  with 
a  little  grated  nutmeato.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven,  and 
bake  a  nice  brown. 


VEGETABLES.  J(>5 

BEETS. 

Beets  contain  considerable  sugar.  The  variety  known  as 
"  sugar  beet  "  is  cultivated  in  many  countries  for  the  manu- 
facture of  sugar.  This  industry  is  being  introduced  into  this 
country.  The  beet  is  more  nutritious  than  many  other 
vegetables,  but  requires  a  long  time  for  digestion-- about  four 
hours.  For  this  reason  it  can  not  be  eaten  by  many  who 
have  weak  stomachs.  They  have  a  total  nutritive  value  of 
twelve  per  cent. 

BOILED  BEETS. 

Select  fresh  and  tender  beets,  because  withered  or  shriveled 
ones  will  never  cook  tender.  Scrub  them  with  a  vegetable 
brush  to  remove  all  dirt,  but  be  careful  not  to  break  off  any 
of  the  rootlets,  as  that  will  cause  them  to  bleed  and  lose  their 
sweet  flavor.  Put  into  boiling  water,  and  cook  until  tender, 
which  can  be  ascertained  by  pressing  upon  the  beet.  Piercing 
with  a  fork  will  cause  them  to  bleed.  When  done,  rub  off 
the  skins,  and  slice  while  hot.  Pour  over  them  equal  parts 
of  lemon-juice  and  water.  Let  them  stand  several  hours 
before  using. 

CHOPPED  BEETS. 

Cook  as  for  boiled  beets.  Peel,  chop  fine,  and  pour  over 
them  a  dressing  made  of  lemon-juice  and  almond  cream. 
Sugar  may  be  added  if  desired. 

BAKED  BEETS. 

Cook  as  in  the  preceding  recipe;  when  tender,  cut  into 
dice,  place  a  layer  in  a  pudding  dish,  and  sprinkle  with 
bread-crumbs;  then  add  another  layer  of  beets,  covering  with 


26C  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

the  bread-crumbs  on  the  top.  Pour  over  the  whole  enough 
salted,  strained  tomatoes  to  moisten  well,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  until  brown  on  top.  If  desired,  a  plain  nut  cream  may 
be  used  instead  of  the  tomatoes. 

BEET  GREENS. 

Take  one  peck  of  young  beets,  use  the  leaves  and  small 
beets,  but  reject  the  stocks,  as  they  will  be  tough.  Wash 
thoroughly,  and  cook  until  very  tender;  then  drain,  pressing 
out  all  the  water  possible;  add  salt  to  taste  and  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  thick  raw  peanut  cream.  Let  it  stew  for  a  few  min- 
utes; then  chop  quite  fine  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  serve  hot. 

SPINACH  ON  TOAST. 

Take  6  slices  of  bread  of  the  same  size  and  thickness,  and 
cut  a  diamond  out  of  each  slice  that  is  five  inches  the  longer 
way  from  point  to  point,  and  three  inches  across  from  one 
oblique  angle  to  the  other;  six  of  them  will  make  a  perfect 
circle.  A  nice  way  to  cut  a  diamond  any  size  you  wish  is  to 
take  a  double  string,  put  a  lead-pencil  point  in  the  loop,  and 
allow  as  much  string  as  you  want  the  length  of  the  diamond 
from  the  obtuse  to  the  acute  angle.  Then  holding  the  string 
fast  at  one  point  in  the  center  of  a  good-sized  piece  of  paper, 
move  the  lead-pencil  round  so  as  to  draw  a  circle,  having  the 
length  of  the  string  for  the  radius  of  the  circle;  make  a  dot  at 
any  part  of  the  circle,  hold  the  end  of  the  string  upon  it,  and 
with  the  lead-pencil  in  the  loop,  draw  a  mark  across  the  circle; 
that  is,  the  distance  from  the  first  mark  in  the  circle  to  the 
second  mark  drawn  in  the  circle  will  be  just  the  length  of  the 
radius,  and  will  also  be  just  one  sixth  of  the  circle.  Then 
draw  a  line  from  each  point  in  the  circle  to  the  center,  and 
with  the  shears  cut  upon  these  lines.  Fold  the  paper  from 


VEGETABLES. 


267 


one  point  to  the  other,  v.iiich  will  be  one  half  of  the  diamond. 
To  make  the  other  half,  press  it  down,  and  cut  the  paper  just 
the  same  size  as  the  first  half.  Then  place  the  paper  diamond 
upon  the  slice  of  bread,  and  with  a  very  sharp  knife  cut  it 
like  the  pattern.  Toast  these  upon  a  soapstone  on  top  of 
the  stove,  to  a  very  nice  brown;  they  may  be  toasted  in 
the  oven,  but  the  stone  gives  them  more  of  a  fried  appear- 
ance and  taste.  Place  them  on  a  platter  (a  round  one  is 


SPINACH  ON  TOAST. 

preferred)  in  such  a  way  that  they  will  form  a  star  with 
six  points.  Have  ready  i  peck  of  spinach  which  has  been 
very  thoroughly  washed  in  several  waters  to  remove  all  the 
sand  and  dirt.  When  boiled  until  perfectly  tender,  drain  off 
all  the  water  possible,  and  add  i  teaspoonful  of  nut  butter 
dissolved  in  a  little  cool  water,  and  the  yolk  of  i  egg.  Beat 
the  egg,  add  the  diluted  butter  and  salt,  and  mix  very 
thoroughly  with  the  greens,  chopping  them  with  a  knife; 
put  them  into  a  basin  that  is  about  six  inches  across,  so 
as  to  press  them  into  a  round  shape.  When  placed  upon 


268  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

the  toast,  it  should  not  cover  the  points  of  the  toast. 
When  it  is  cold  enough  to  be  solid,  turn  it  out  upon  the 
toast,  and  garnish  with  the  whites  of  boiled  eggs  chopped 
fine  placed  upon  the  top,  with  the  chopped  yolks  in  the  cen- 
ter, and  garnished  with  sections  of  lemon  cut  lengthwise. 
The  cut  will  give  an  idea  of  how  it  is  made.  It  is  not  very 
much  work  to  make  it,  and  it  is  not  necessary  to  cut  the 
bread  into  diamonds  unless  a  fancy  dish  is  desired.  Slices 
of  bread  may  be  cut  diagonally  so  as  to  make  an  acute 
b  point,  as  in  the  accompanying  cut.  Let  a,  />, 
c,  d  represent  a  slice  of  bread ;  cut  it  from 
the  corner  a  to  c.  Then  arrange  on  the  plate 
so  that  the  points  will  stand  out.  Place  the 
plate  in  the  oven  to  warm  just  before  serving, 
and  serve  each  individual  with  a  piece  of  toast 
with  some  of  the  spinach  on  it  and  one  or  two 
pieces  of  lemon. 

DANDELION  GREENS. 

Take  i  peck  of  fresh  dandelions,  look  over  and  wash  well, 
and  put  on  the  stove  in  plenty  of  cold  water.  AYhen  they 
have  boiled  for  a  few  minutes,  drain  off  the  water,  and 
add  more.  If  they  are  not  real  young,  they  will  need  par- 
boiling again.  Then  cook  until  very  tender,  add  i  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Drain,  and 
press  out  all  the  water  possible,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
raw  peanut  cream,  more  salt  if  it  is  needed,  and  lastly  stir 
in  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  i  egg.  Remove  from  the  stove, 
and  serve  at  once.  Other  greens,  as  horseradish,  mustard, 
etc.,  may  also  be  seasoned  in  the  same  way,  adding  lemon- 
juice  if  desired.  These  are  nice  if  served  on  toast  the  same 
as  Spinach  on  Toast. 


VEGETABLES.  269 

RADISHES. 

Radishes  do  not  contain  very  much  nutriment,  being  about 
the  same  in  composition  as  the  turnip,  but  their  bright  color 
adds  to  the  beauty  of  the  table,  and  if  well  masticated  they 
can  be  digested  by  a  normal  stomach. 

COOKED  RADISHES. 

Select  crisp,  fresh  radishes,  slice,  and  cook  until  tender. 
Salt  to  taste,  then  pour  over  them  a  ceam  gravy  made  of 
water,  peanut  or  almond  butter,  and  thickened  with  a  little 
white  flour. 

BAKED  RADISHES. 

Cook  like  the  above  until  tender,  then  to  3  cups  of 
cooked  radishes  add  i  cup  of  coarsely  ground  peanuts,  \ 
cup  of  zwieola,  and  water  to  moisten.  Bake  in  the  oven 
until  brown. 


CABBAGE. 

Cabbage  is  very  low  in  nutritive  value,  and  not  very  easy 
of  digestion.  It  consists  principally  of  water.  The  winter 
cabbage  contains  eighty  per  cent,  water,  four  per  cent, 
albuminous  elements,  one  per  cent,  sugar,  one  per  cent,  fat, 
ten  per  cent,  pectose,  and  the  remainder  of  cellulose,  or 
woody  matter. 

BOILED  CABBAGE. 

Select  a  good,  solid  head,  remove  the  withered  leaves,  and 
shave  fine,  rejecting  the  heart.  Put  to  boil  in  boiling  water, 
and  cook  rapidly  until  tender;  then  add  salt,  and  let  stew  for 


2/O  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

ten  minutes.  If  there  is  much  water,  drain  it  off,  and  add 
enough  almond  or  peanut  cream  to  season  well;  serve  hot. 
The  juice  of  one  lemon  may  be  added  if  desired. 

BAKED  CABBAGE. 

Cook  finely  sliced  or  chopped  cabbage  in  boiling  water 
until  very  tender,  and  until  nearly  all  the  water  has  evap- 
orated, which  will  take  about  two  hours.  Then  let  it  cool. 
To  i  pint  of  cooked  cabbage,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  salt  to 
taste,  and  \  cup  of  thin  nut  cream,  made  by  dissolving  i 
teaspoonful  of  almond  butter  in  \  cup  of  water.  Raw  pea- 
nut butter  may  be  used,  but  the  roasted  butter  does  not 
blend  with  cabbage  as  well  as  with  some  of  the  vegetables. 
Pour  this  over  the  cabbage,  mix,  and  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. 

CHOPPED  CABBAGE  NO.   J. 

Select  fresh,  solid  heads,  and  chop  them  fine,  after  the 
outer  withered  leaves  and  heart  have  been  removed.  Then 
prepare  the  following  sauce:  For  i  pint  of  chopped  cabbage, 
take  the  yolk  of  i  egg,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  i  tablespoon- 
ful  of  nut  cream,  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt,  the  juice  and  a  little 
of  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  |  cup  of  water.  Put  on 
the  stove,  and  when  hot,  stir  in  i  teaspoonful  of  white  flour 
rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water.  Let  cook  gently  for 
three  or  four  minutes,  and  pour  over  the  cabbage. 

CHOPPED  CABBAGE  NO.  2. 

Prepare  the  cabbage  as  in  the  preceding  recipe.  To  i  cup 
of  lemon-juice  add  i  cup  of  water  and  sugar  to  taste,  and  pour 
over  the  cabbage.  Place  in  the  refrigerator  or  cold  cellar  for 
a  half-hour  before  serving. 


VEGETABLES.  2/1 

CHOPPED  CABBAGE  NO.  3. 

Prepare  the  cabbage  as  in  recipe  No.  I,  and  prepare 
the  sauce  as  follows :  To  i  pint  of  chopped  cabbage  dis- 
solve i  tablespoonful  of  nut  butter  (almond  preferred)  in  i 
cup  of  cold  water,  adding  only  a  little  water  at  a  time. 
Sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  a  very  little  vanilla;  then  pour 
over  the  cabbage.  Serve  as  cold  as  possible. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE. 

Take  a  large,  solid  head  of  cabbage,  and  remove  the 
heart;  then  fill  the  vacancy  with  a  stuffing  made  of  plain 
nutmeatose  (that  is,  without  sage),  bread-crumbs,  and  the 
yolk  of  I  egg.  When  the  cavities  are  filled,  place  the 
two  halves  together,  and  tie  firmly,  or  better  still,  sew  up 
in  a  clean  white  cloth,  and  boil  in  a  kettle  or  steam  in  a 
steam-cooker  for  two  hours.  Serve  hot. 

BAKED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Trim  off  the  leaves  of  a  firm  head  of  cauliflower,  and 
let  stand  in  salted  water  one  hour.  If  there  are  any  in- 
sects, they  will  crawl  out.  Cook  in  slightly  salted  water 
until  tender,  then  drain  carefully,  re-move  from  the  stock, 
and  place  in  a  pudding  dish  in  which  it  may  be  served. 
After  this  has  been  done,  make  a  sauce  of  nut  cream  (al- 
mond or  raw  peanut  preferred)  thickened  with  a  little  white 
flour  and  salt  to  taste.  A  little  grated  nutmeato  may  be 
added  if  desired.  Pour  over  the  cauliflower,  then  sprinkle 
well  with  bread-crumbs,  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  ten  min- 
utes. Remove  the  cover,  and  let  brown.  Serve  at  once, 
or  it  may  be  kept  in  a  cool  place  and  reheated  for  Sab- 
bath dinner. 


2/2  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

ONIONS. 

The  principal  use  to  which  onions  are  generally  put  is 
to  season  soups,  gravies,  and  other  foods.  They  contain  a 
volatile  oil  that  is  not  digestible,  but  this  evaporates  with  the 
cooking.  For  this  reason,  onions  should  never  be  eaten 
— paw.  The  total  nutritive  value  of  the  onion  is  thirteen  per 
cent.  It  contains  one  and  seven-tenths  per  cent,  of  albu- 
minous elements,  two  and  eight-tenths  of  sugar,  one  of  fat, 
seven  of  salt,  and  eight  of  carbonaceous  elements. 

STEWED  ONIONS. 

Select  good  white  onions  of  medium  size.  Peel  and 
soak  in  cold  water  for  one  or  two  hours,  then  put  on  in  cold 
water,  let  boil  about  five  or  ten  minutes,  and  drain.  Then 
cover  with  boiling  water,  and  let  cook  for  two  or  three 
hours  or  until  very  tender.  Salt  should  be  added  a  half- 
hour  before  done  to  let  it  penetrate.  Flavor  with  nut  but- 
ter, either  almond  or  raw  peanut,  or  a  thin  nut  gravy  may 
be  used  instead.  If  the  gravy  is  used,  it  should  be  thick- 
ened with  white  flour. 

The  reason  why  they  should  be  soaked  in  water  and  par- 
boiled is  to  remove  the  acrid  oil,  or  strong  taste,  of  the  onion, 
which  is  irritating  to  the  stomach.  Onions  should  be 
thoroughly  cooked;  they  should  not  be  eaten  raw. 

ESCALLOPED  ONIONS. 

Cook  as  directed  for  stewed  onions.  When  tender,  cut 
in  halves  and  place  in  a  pudding  dish.  Then  to  one  pint 
of  nut  milk  take  2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  zwieola  and  i  well- 
beaten  egg;  salt  to  taste.  Mix  well;  pour  over  the  onions, 
and  bake. 


VEGETABLES.  2/3 

BAKED  ONIONS. 

Peel  and  boil  the  onions  as  in  previous  recipes,  being 
careful  not  to  boil  them  to  pieces.  While  slightly  rare,  cut 
in  halves  and  take  out  the  centers.  Place  them  in  a  pud- 
ding dish  with  the  cup  side  up,  and  fill  the  cups  with  a 
stuffing  made  as  follows  :  i  egg,  i  tablespoonful  of  nut  cream, 
i  tablespoonful  of  grated  nutmeato,  and  salt  and  thyme  to 
taste.  Mix  with  enough  bread-crumbs  to  make  of  the  right 
consistency.  Moisten  the  whole  with  a  little  nut  cream,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


LETTUCE. 

This  vegetable,  though  not  very  nutritious,  is  digestible 
unless  the  dressing  with  which  it  is  served  is  unwholesome. 
The  practise  of  serving  lettuce  with  vinegar  is  not  to  be  coun- 
tenanced by  those  who  wish  to  be  hygienic,  as  the  effect  of 
vinegar  upon  the  digestive  organs  is  very  bad.  It  hinders  the 
digestion  of  starch,  irritates  the  stomach,  and  causes  the 
starch  to  ferment.  When  lettuce  is  served  with  a  simple  and 
healthful  dressing,  it  is  not  objectionable. 

LETTUCE  WITH  CREAM. 

Take  very  tender  lettuce  that  is  perfectly  fresh,  wash  well, 
and  tear  the  leaves  into  small  pieces.  Put  into  a  dish  and 
pour  over  it  the  following  :  i  cup  of  cold  water,  i  teaspoon- 
ful  of  peanut  butter,  i  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  j  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  or  any  seasoning  desired.  Dissolve  the 
butter  in  the  water,  adding  only  a  little  at  a  time.  -  Then  add 
the  sugar  and  vanilla.  Serve  cold. 
18 


.274  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Select  tender,  crisp  lettuce,  tear  into  pieces,  and  place  on 
a  plate  or  a  shallow  platter.  Pour  over  the  lettuce  a  dress- 
ing made  as  follows  :  2  tablespoonfuls  of  nut  butter  rubbed 
smooth  in  g-  cup  of  water,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon-juice,  i 
teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  .\  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Boil  together 
a  moment,  and  cool. 


CELERY. 

CELERY  WITH  GRAVY. 

Take  very  brittle  celery,  wash  well,  cut  in  one-half  finger 
lengths,  and  cook  until  very  tender.  Then  drain,  saving  the 
water  in  which  it  was  cooked,  and  adding  enough  to  it  to 
make  a  cream  sauce  as  follows  :  To  i  pint  of  water  dissolve 
i  tablespoonful  of  almond  butter  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  raw 
peanut  cream,  and  when  boiling,  thicken  with  i  teaspoonful  of 
white  flour  ;  salt  to  taste.  Pour  over  the  cooked  celery  and 
serve  hot.  A  beaten  egg  may  be  added  if  desired. 

TO  USE  COLD  COOKED  CELERY. 

When  any  cooked  potatoes  and  celery  is  left  over  from  a 
dinner,  a  very  palatable  dish  may  be  made  by  chopping  the 
potatoes  and  cutting  the  celery  up  quite  fine.  Mix  thoroughly, 
and  warm  in  the  steamer,  or  double  boiler. 

CURLED  CELERY. 

Select  nice  tender  celery,  clean  well,  and  cut  off  the  stems 
where  they  begin  to  branch  for  the  leaves.  Slice  the  stock 
in  three  or  four  slits  to  near  the  center  from  both  ends,  leav- 


VEGETABLES.  275 

ing  a  piece  that  is  whole  in  the  center  about  one  to  two  inches 
long.  Place  them  in  ice-water,  and  in  twenty  minutes  the 
slices  of  stocks  will  be  curled  nicely.  Serve  them  stacked 
upon  a  celery  tray.  In  eating,  the  little  curls  are  to  be  broken 
off  with  the  fingers. 


SQUASH. 

SUMMER  SQUASH. 

Summer  squash  is  very  low  in  nutritive  value,  but  is  easily 
digested,  and  if  properly  cooked  is  palatable,  and  helps  to 
make  a  variety.  The  crook-neck  are  the  nicest  flavored,  but 
the  hardest  to  prepare,  on  account  of  the  seeds. 

SUMMER  SQUASH  WITH  EGG  SAUCE. 

Prepare  and  steam  until  tender,  then  cut  into  small 
pieces,  and  serve  with  egg  sauce,  (For  directions  for  making 
sauce,  see  index.) 

WINTER   SQUASH. 

The  winter  squash  is  more  nutritious  than  the  summer 
squash,  having  a  total  nutritive  value  of  eighty-five  per  cent. 
When  well  ripened,  they  are  very  mealy  and  sweet.  The 
Hubbard  is  considered  the  best  variety,  but  the  Marblehead 
and  some  others  are  very  good.  To  test  their  ripeness, 
stick  the  thumb-nail  into  the  shell,  and  if  it  goes  in  easily, 
the  squash  is  green.  A  ripe  squash  is  too  hard  to  be  pierced 
with  the  nail. 

STEAMED  SQUASH. 

Select  a  good,  ripe,  Hubbard  squash.  (They  are  ripe  when 
the  shell  is  so  hard  that  it  is  difficult  to  pierce  with  the 
thumb-nail.)  Wash,  and  cut  into  convenient  pieces,  remove 


2/6  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

the  seeds,  and  pare  away  the  stringy  portion  next  to  the  seed 
cavity,  but  leave  the  shell  on.  Place  in  a  steamer  or  a  steam- 
cooker,  and  cook  until  it  can  be  pierced  to  the  shell  easily  with 
a  fork.  Then  scrape  from  the  shell,  and  mash  or  press 
through  a  vegetable  press.  Season  with  salt  and  nut  cream. 
Place  in  a  baking  dish,  and  bake  a  nice  brown  on  top. 

BAKED  SQUASH. 

Prepare  as  for  steamed  squash,  and  place  in  an  oven  and 
bake  until  very  tender.  They  can  be  served  in  the  shell  un- 
seasoned, or  scraped  from  the  shell  and  seasoned  with  salt 
and  nut  cream  before  serving.  In  the  fall  of  the  year 
squash  is  better  steamed,  as  they  are  apt  to  be  too  dry  and 
mealy  when  baked;  but  in  the  winter  and  spring,  they  are 
better  baked. 


CUCUMBERS. 

The  cucumber  is  very  low  in  nutritive  value,  having  only 
four  per  cent,  of  nutrition.  It  is  not,  however,  objectionable 
unless  served  with  vinegar,  pepper,  and  other  condiments.  It 
is  more  easily  digested  if  cooked  before  serving. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD. 

Take  fresh  cucumbers  of  the  right  size  for  table  use,  and 
place  in  very  cold  water  for  one  hour  before  using.  When 
ready  to  use,  pare,  slice,  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt.  Serve 
at  once 

ESCALLOPED  CUCUMBERS. 

Take  four  cucumbers  (right  size  for  table  use),  slice,  and 
cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender.  Press  through  a  colander 
or  sieve.  Add  a  sufficient  amount  of  white  bread-crumbs  to 


VEGETABLES.  2// 

make  about  the  consistency  of  pudding.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt, 
a  teaspoonful  of  raw  peanut  butter  dissolved  in  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  water,  and  i  well-beaten  egg.  Pour  into  a  pudding 
dish,  and  bake  until  the  custard  is  set,  but  not  browned 
or  dry. 


TOMATOES. 

The  tomato  consists  principally  of  water,  and  hence  is 
very  low  in  nutritive  value.  As  late  as  the  early  part  of 
this  century,  the  tomato  was  regarded  as  poisonous,  and 
some  now  have  an  idea  that  they  cause  cancers.  This, 
however,  is  not  the  case.  It  being  an  acid  fruit  or  vege- 
table, it  is  excellent  served  as  a  relish,  and  is  serviceable 
in  making  soups  and  salads,  as  well  as  a  variety  of  mixed 
dishes. 

SLICED  TOMATOES. 

They  should  be  prepared  a  half-hour  before  serving. 
Select  good,  ripe,  sound,  tomatoes  that  are  perfectly  fresh 
and  tender.  Peel  them  very  thin  without  scalding  them. 
Slice  and  put  in  a  refrigerator  or  in  a  cool  place.  Serve  as 
a  relish,  and  let  each  individual  season  to  suit  himself. 

STEWED  TOMATOES. 

Pour  hot  water  over  the  tomatoes,  and  let  them  stand 
for  one  minute,  and  then  plunge  them  into  cold  water. 
Peel  and  slice  and  put  into  a  granite  dish  which  has  been 
oiled  with  peanut  oil.  Let  them  cook  until  perfectly  tender, 
stirring  and  chopping  them  with  a  silver  spoon.  They  will 
not  need  any  water  if  they  are  stirred  often,  as  they  con- 
tain so  much  water  themselves.  Salt  may  be  added  if 
desired.  Serve  hot  in  a  deep  dish  lined  with  slices  of  toast. 


2/8  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

Take  i  quart  of  stewed  and  sifted  tomatoes,  and  add 
to  them  2\  cups  of  bread-crumbs,  or  better  still,  zwieback 
rolled  fine  with  a  rolling  pin.  Add  i  cup  of  nut  cream,  and 
salt  to  taste.  Mix  well  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 

BAKED    TOMATOES. 

Select  good,  solid,  ripe  tomatoes.  Wash  well  and  slice 
crosswise  without  peeling.  Season  with  salt  and  sugar  if 
desired,  and  dip  each  slice  in  white  flour,  then  into  a  beaten 
egg,  then  in  finely  grated  bread-crumbs  made  from  white 
zwieback.  Place  on  an  oiled  tin,  and  bake  until  a  nice 
brown.  Serve  hot. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES  NO.  I. 

Take  6  good-sized  ripe  tomatoes,  but  not  those  that  are 
too  soft.  Wash  well,  remove  the  stern,  cut  a  small,  round 
hole  in  the  top,  and  remove  the  seeds,  then  fill  the  cavities 
with  the  following:— 

Take  i  cup  of  nutmeato  grated  very  fine,  and  A  cup  of 
pulverized  white  zwieback,  made  fine  with  a  rolling-pin  on 
bread-board.  Salt  to  taste,  and  add  a  little  chopped  parsley 
or  celery  salt  if  desired.  Mix  well  together  and  fill  the  to- 
matoes. Place  stern  end  down  on  a  graniteware  pic-tin,  or 
in  a  pudding  dish,  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES  NO  2. 

Select  12  (or  any  number  desired)  solid,  smooth,  ripe 
tomatoes,  and  cut  a  slice  off  the  blossom  end  of  each,  and 
with  a  spoon  remove  the  center  part  of  <:he  pulp  with  the 


VEGETABLES. 


279 


seeds,  leaving  the  shell  unbroken.  Select  a  solid  head  of 
cabbage  (not  very  large  i  and  i  onion;  boil  together  until 
tender,  which  will  take  one  hour  or  more.  Chop  fine,  and 
add  finely  grated  bread-crumbs  and  the  pulp  of  the  tomato, 
rejecting  the  seeds.  Add  I  cup  of  nut  cream.  Season  with 
salt  and  sugar  to  taste.  Fill  the  tomatoes,  placing  the  slice 
back  in  its  place,  and  lay  the  tomatoes,  stem  end  down,  in  a 


STUKKED  TOMATOKS. 

pudding  dish.  Pour  in  a  little  water  to  keep  from  burn- 
ing, and  bake  for  a  half-hour,  or  until  thoroughly  done. 
Serve  hot. 

BAKED  TOMATO. 

Take  6  medium-ripe  tomatoes  of  equal  size.  Cut  a  piece 
from  the  blow  end,  and  remove  the  seed  cavity  with  the  flesh 
that  is  in  the  center,  leaving  the  flesh  next  to  the  skin,  then 
sift  the  tomato  that  is  taken  out,  removing  all  the  seeds,  and 


28O  GUIDE    FOR    NTT    COOKERY. 

add  a  small  teaspoonlul  of  peanut  butter  to  each  tomato, 
also  one  tablespoonful  of  zwieola  or  bread-crumbs,  and  salt  to 
taste.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  lightly  browned,  and  serve 
on  individual  dishes  on  lettuce  leaves. 

DRIED  TOMATOES. 

Take'  good,  ripe  tomatoes,  but  not  too  ripe,  as  they  will 
be  too  juicy.  Peel  very  thin  without  scalding,  and  slice 
crosswise  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick.  Place  a  layer  of 
them  on  a  plate  or  a  granite  pie-tin,  then  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  dry.  When  thoroughly  dried, 
put  in  a  paper  bag  in  a  cool  place  for  winter.  They  may  be 
used  instead  of  raisins  for  puddings  and  cakes. 

CANNED  TOMATOES. 

Select  good,  solid,  ripe  tomatoes.  They  must  not  be  over- 
ripe or  specked  ;  for  if  they  are,  they  will  not  be  apt  to 
keep  well  ;  indeed,  this  is  the  very  cause  of  so  many  having 
trouble  in  keeping  canned  tomatoes.  Scald  with  boiling  water 
for  one  minute  and  peel.  Slice  crosswise  about  one-half  inch 
thick,  and  if  the  tomatoes  are  very  large,  they  must  be  halved 
or  quartered  to  get  into  the  can.  Put  in  a  clean,  well  steril- 
ized can,  shake  down  well,  and  put  on  the  cover  tight.  Place 
in  a  steam-cooker  (or  a  wash  boiler  will  do,  with  some  straw, 
or  four  or  five  thicknesses  of  cloth  on  the  bottom  to  keep  the 
cans  from  breaking  ;  but  a  rack  made  of  narrow  slats  to  fit 
ilu;  boiler  on  purpose  for  canning  fruit,  is  much  better  and 
\ery  much  less  work).  When  the  water  has  boiled  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes,  remove  the  cans  one  at  a  time.  Take  off 
the  cover,  put  on  the  rubber,  and  fill  the  can  with  some  boil- 
ing tomatoes,  which  are  ready  in  a  stew-kettle,  or  one  can 
may  be  taken  to  fill  up  the  others  with.  Put  on  the  cover, 


VEGETABLES.  -<sl 

screw  down  tight,  and  place  on  a  table  or  shelf  out  of  the 
draft,  standing  the  cans  bottom  side  up  on  their  covers. 
When  cold,  turn  over,  tighten  the  covers  as  much  as  possi- 
ble, and  place  in  a  dark,  cool  cellar. 


GREEN   CORN. 

Green  corn  does  not  contain  the  nutriment  that  the 
mature  grain  does,  and  is  therefore  more  commonly  classed 
with  the  vegetables.  The  same  may  be  said  of  green  peas 
and  beans.  They  make  many  palatable  and  healthful  dishes. 

GREEN  CORN  ON  THE  COB. 

Select  fresh  corn,  as  that  which  has  been  standing  for 
even  a  day  has  lost  much  of  its  sweetness.  Corn  is  right  for 
use  when  the  milk  has  begun  to  thicken,  but  not  enough  to 
harden  the  skin  or  hull.  Remove  the  husks  and  silks,  and 
steam  in  a  steam-cooker  or  a  common  steamer  over  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  according  to 
the  size  of  the  kernels  and  the  age  of  the  corn.  The  corn 
that  is  left  from  dinner  may  be  cut  from  the  cob  and  used 
the  next  day  in  macaroni  cornlet;  or  it  may  be  put  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  chopped  potatoes  moistened  with  a  little 
nut  cream  and  a  well-beaten  egg.  Drop  a  tablespoonful  at 
a  time  on  oiled  tins  and  bake  in  the  oven. 

STEWED  CORN. 

Select  tender,  fresh  corn,  and  remove  all  husks  and 
silks.  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  the  center  of  each  row  of 
kernels,  and  with  the  back  of  the  knife  press  out  the  kernels, 
leaving  the  hulls  on  the  cob.  To  i  quart  of  this  add  I  cup  of 


282  (IL'IDK    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

almond  milk  or  raw  peanut  milk,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
for  one  hour  or  more.  Cooking  will  not  hurt  it.  When  done, 
season  with  salt,  and  if  too  thick,  add  more  nut  milk.  A 
well-beatrn  egg  may  be  stirred  in  if  desired  just  a  moment 
before  taking  up. 

BAKED  CORN  OYSTERS. 

Prepare  the  corn  and  scrape  from  the  cob  as  in  the 
recipe  above;  then  add  \  cup  white  flour,  .\  cup  nut  meal, 
and  salt  to  taste.  Mix  well,  put  on  oiled  tins  in  drops  about 
the  size  of  an  oyster,  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

BAKED  CORN  NO.  J. 

Select  fresh,  tender,  sweet  corn;  husk  and  silk.  With  a 
sharp  knife  run  it  down  the  rows,  cutting  the  kernels  in 
the  middle.  Then  with  the  back  of  the  knife,  scrape 
down,  and  the  kernels  will  jump  out  of  their  hulls,  leaving 
the  hulls  on  the  cob.  Add  I  cup  of  hot  water,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  zwieola,  and  salt  to  taste.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
three  fourths  of  an  hour.  A  little  raw  peanut  butter  may  be 
added  if  desired. 

BAKED  CORN  NO.  2, 

Take  as  many  ears  of  good,  tender,  fresh  green  corn  as  is 
desired  for  one  meal,  and  remove  the  husks  and  silks;  then  oil 
them  with  peanut  oil  or  nutcoa.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
place  in  a  dripping-pan.  Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  until  they 
are  quite  brown.  Serve  hot. 

SUCCOTASH. 

The  common  shelled  beans  may  be  used  for  this  purpose, 
but  the  Lima  shelled  beans  are  preferable.  Shell,  wash,  and 
boil.  About  twenty  minutes  before  serving,  add  an  equal 


VEGETABLES.  283 

amount  of  sweet  corn  cut  from  the  cob.  Be  careful  not  to  cut 
it  too  close.  Season  with  salt  and  raw  peanut  cream,  and 
serve  hot. 

TO  CAN  CORN. 

Choose  good,  tender  sweet  corn.  It  should  not  be  any 
riper  for  canning  than  for  table  use.  Cut  the  center  of  each 
row  of  kernels,  and  with  the  back  of  the  knife  scrape  out  all 
the  pulp  and  chits,  leaving  only  the  hulls  on  the  cob,  then 
without  cooking,  pack  it  in  glass  jars  until  they  are  full;  put 
on  the  rubber  and  cover,  and  screw  down  tight.  Do  not 
remove  the  cover  after  it  is  once  on.  Cook  in  a  steam-cooker 
if  you  have  one,  if  not,  put  some  lath  in  the  bottom  of  the 
boiler,  put  in  your  cans,  and  put  some  cloths  between  the 
cans,  so  that  they  will  not  touch  each  other,  else  when  boil- 
ing, they  may  strike  together  and  break.  Pour  in  enough 
cold  water  -to  half  cover  the  jars,  and  place  on  the  stove. 
Cover  with  a  tight-fitting  cover  and  boil  for  four  or  five  hours; 
then  remove  the  cans  and  tighten  the  covers  if  you  can;  let 
cool;  when  cold,  tighten  the  covers  as  much  as  you  can,  and 
set  in  a  dark,  cool  cellar. 

DRIED  CORN. 

Select  good,  tender  sweet  corn,  no  riper  than  for  table 
use.  Husk,  and  be  sure  to  silk  well;  then  cut  the  center  of 
each  row  of  kernels,  and  with  back  of  the  knife  scrape  out  all 
but  the  hull.  Place  on  plates  or  granite  pie-tins,  and  dry  in 
a  warm  oven  or  near  the  stove.  Corn  dried  in  the  sun  loses 
its  flavor  and  sweetness,  besides  being  exposed  to  flies  and 
dust.  The  usual  method  of  cutting  the  kernels  from  the 
cob  is  not  so  good,  as  the  hulls  are  left  on,  and  are  irrita- 
ting to  a  weak  stomach.  When  thoroughly  dry,  put  in  a 
good  paper  bag  and  store  in  a  cool,  dry  room. 


284  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

TO  COOK  DRIED  CORN. 

Look  over  and  soak  all  night  or  for  several  hours  before 
cooking,  then  cook  in  the  same  water  in  which  it  was  soaked. 
Stew  it  slowly,  and  when  tender,  season  with  salt  and  raw 
peanut  or  almond  cream.  One  third  as  much  strained  toma- 
toes may  be  added  if  it  suits  the  family.  Dried  corn  is  also 
excellent  ground  through  a  grain  mill  and  used  in  soups  and 
other  dishes. 

SWEET-CORN  WITH  COCOANUT  MILK. 

Take  I  can  of  good  corn  and  put  in  the  inner  part  of  a 
double  boiler,  add  i  cup  of  cocoanut  milk  and  a  little  salt  ; 
place  in  the  outer  part  of  the  double  boiler,  the  water  in 
which  should  be  boiling,  and  cook  for  half  an  hour.  Serve 
hot.  This  is  certainly  a  very  delicious  dish. 

CORN  PEPPER. 

Take  some  white  field  corn  (the  yellow  will  do  if  the  other 
can  not  be  obtained),  and  roast  it  in  the  oven  or  peanut  roaster 
until  it  is  nicely  brownrd.  Then  grind  through  a  coffee-mill, 
and  use  to  sprinkle  over  foods  which  you  wish  to  have  a  fine 
appearance,  and  bake  in  the  oven.  It  may  also  be  used  in 
gravy,  on  eggs,  and  the  like. 

CAPPED  CORN. 

Take  good,  tender  sweet  corn,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut 
the  skins,  only,  from  the  top  of  the  kernels,  leaving  the 
remainder  on  the  cob  ;  salt  the  ears  of  corn  and  then  spread 
them  with  nut  butter  made  from  pine-nuts,  which  may  be 
diluted  a  little  to  make  it  more  easy  to  spread  ;  then  put  on 
bake  tins  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  nicely  browned. 
Serve  very  hot.  Almond  butter  or  raw  peanut  cream  may  be 
used  instead  of  the  pine-nut  if  more  convenient 


VEGETABLES.  285 

GREEN   PEAS   AND   BEANS. 

The  pea  and  bean  in  the  mature  state  belong  to  the 
Legume  family,  but  in  their  unripe  condition  are  usually 
classed  with  the  vegetable.  In  this  state,  they  are  not  very 
nutritious,  but  make  palatable  and  healthful  dishes  for  sum- 
mer, when  so  great  a  quantity  of  heat-producing  elements  are 
not  required. 

STRING-BEANS. 

String  well,  break  into  inch  lengths,  wash  thoroughly,  and 
cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender  (this  usually  takes  about 
two  hours).  Salt  the  water  about  ten  minutes  before  they 
are  done,  then  drain  thoroughly,  and  make  a  gravy  of  almond 
or  raw  peanut  milk  thickened  with  a  little  white  flour;  salt 
slightly  and  pour  on  the  beans.  Let  boil  up  once  and  serve. 
If  preferred,  the  flour  may  be  omitted. 

STRING-BEANS  WITH  EGG. 

Boil  in  salted  water  with  a  bunch  of  savory  or  parsley 
leaves;  drain,  and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  5  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  raw  peanut  cream,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and  a  little 
salt.  Stir  it  constantly  until  of  a  proper  thickness.  A  little 
grated  onion  may  be  added  with  the  beans  if  desired. 

TO  CAN  STRING-BEANS. 

Wash  thoroughly,  string,  and  cut  in  inch  lengths.  Pack 
as  tightly  as  possible  in  the  cins,  then  fill  each  can  with 
water.  Tin  cans  are  best  for  them,  but  glass  cans  may  be 
used.  If  the  tin  cans  are'  used,  they  should  be  thoroughly 
washed  and  rinsed  in  boiling  water  before  the  beans  are  put 
in.  After  they  are  filled  with  beans  and  water,  place  on  the 


286  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

cover  and  solder  them.  Now  put  in  a  steam-cooker  or  a 
wash-boiler,  cover  with  water,  and  boil  for  four  or  five  hours. 
If  glass  cans  are  used,  they  should  be  new  ones,  or  if  they 
have  been  used  before,  they  should  be  sterili/ed  by  boiling  in 
Milted  water  for  one  hour.  The  rubbers  should  be  new.  Fill 
the  same  as  the  tin  cans,  put  on  the  rubber,  screw  down  the 
covers  tight,  cook  in  a  steam-cooker  for  four  or  five  hours,  or 
e.iokin  a  wash-boiler  by  putting  four  or  five  thicknesses  of 
cloth  in  the  boiler.  Wrap  each  can  with  a  cloth  to  prevent 
breaking. 

SHELLED  BEANS. 

The  lima  beans  are  considered  the  best,  but  other  varie- 
ties are  good.  Cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  until  they  are 
very  tender.  Season  with  nut  milk  and  serve  hot. 

TO  WARM  UP  SHELLED  BEANS. 

Pour  off  all  the  milk,  sift  through  a  colander,  and  mix 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  cold  mashed  potatoes;  add  i  well- 
beaten  egg.  Make  into  small  cakes  with  the  hands;  place  on 
well-oiled  tins  and  bake  in  the  oven.  A  little  thick  nut  cream 
may  be  added  if  desired. 

BOILED  GREEN  PEAS. 

Select  good,  sweet  peas,  shell  and  wash  thoroughly,  and 
boil  in  hot  water  until  tender.  About  ten  minutes  before 
they  are  done,  add  salt  to  taste;  then  drain  and  pour  over 
them  thin  raw  peanut  milk  which  has  been  cooked.  Let 
boil  up  once  and  serve.  If  desired,  it  may  be  thickened  with 
a  little  white  flour. 


VEGETABLES.  2/ 

GREEN  PEAS  BAKED. 

Take  i  pint  of  sifted  green  peas,  and  add  salt  to  taste,  I 
tablespoonful  of  very  thick  nut  cream,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
minced  parsley  or  celery  leaves  (they  must  be  very  fine). 
Pour  in  a  pudding  dish,  and  bike  in  the  oven  until  of  a  nice 
brown  on  top. 

GREEN  PEAS  WITH  EGG. 

Cook  the  peas  until  tender.  Rub  through  a  colander,  and 
add  a  little  minced  celery  or  parsley,  and  salt  to  taste.  To  i 
pint  of  sifted  peas  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  nut  cream 
and  one  beaten  egg.  Put  in  a  pudding  dish,  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  or  in  a  pan  of  water  until  the  egg  is  set. 


FOR  NEW   RECIPES. 


FOR  NEW  RECIPES. 


'9  [289] 


SOUPS. 


SOUPS  are  not  so  nutritious,  of  course,  as  more  solid  foods, 
as  they  contain  so  much  water;  but  they  are  useful  at 
the  beginning  of  the  meal,  to  start  the  flow  of  the  digestive 
llu ids.  One  is  not  so  apt  to  overeat  when  eating  soups,  as 
the  water  of  the  soup  is  so  soon  absorbed  and  passes  into  the 
s\  stem. 

PLAIN  DUMPLINGS. 

Take  ^  cup  of  walnut  meal,  \  cup  of  grated  zwieback,  salt 
to  taste,  .',  cup  of  Hour,  and  \  cup  of  cold  water.  Mix  well; 
form  into  dumplings  as  large  as  a  marble.  Cook  in  the  soup 
and  serve  with  it. 

NUTMEATOSE  BALLS. 

Put  \  cup  of  nut  cream  over  the  fire;  when  boiling,  stir  in 
quickly  j  cup  of  flour  and  stir  for  a  minute.  Then  remove 
from  the  stove  and  let  cool;  add  i  well-beaten  egg  and  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  nutmeatose.  Fold  in  lightly.  Drop 
this  paste  on  well-oiled  tins,  in  pieces  not  larger  than  a  small 
hickory-nut,  and  bake.  Serve  in  soup. 

LA  ROYAL,  SERVED  IN  SOUPS, 

Take   2   eggs,  4   tablespoonfuls  of  thin   nut  cream,  and  a 

little  salt.      Beat  the  eggs  until  well  mixed.      Add  the  salt  and 

nut  cream,  and  turn  into  a  small  basin,  well  oiled;   place  in  a 

pan   of   boiling   water,    and   set  in    the   oven  or  on  top  of   the 

[290] 


sours.  291 

stove  until  the  custard  is  set.  When  cold,  cut  into  blocks  or 
fancy  shapes.  Put  into  the  tureen  and  turn  over  them  the 
soup.  A  little  grated  nutmeg  may  be  added  to  the  custard 
if  desired. 

EGG   BALLS. 

Boil  4  eggs  long  enough  to  have  the  yolks  dry  and  mealy. 
Put  into  cold  water,  then  mash  both  whites  and  yolks  through 
a  fine  sieve,  and  add  the  yolk  of  I  raw  egg,  I  teaspoonful 
of  flour,  and  salt  and  parsley  to  taste.  Make  into  balls  and 
boil  four  or  five  minutes. 

WALNUT  BALLS  FOR  SOUPS. 

Mix  ^  cup  of  bread-crumbs,  the  yolks  of  4  hard-boiled 
eggs,  and  ^  cup  of  walnut  meats  ground  coarse  through 
the  mill,  or  they  can  be  chopped  or  pounded.  Season  with 
salt  and  bind  together  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  nut  milk. 
Make  into  balls  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut,  and  cook  in  the 
soup  for  twenty  minutes,  then  serve  with  the  soup,  hot. 

HYGIENIC  DUMPLINGS. 

Put  i  quart  of  nut  milk  into  a  kettle;  when  boiling,  add  j 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  it  quite 
stiff,  like  hasty  pudding.  It  is  nice  to  whip  it  in  with  a  batter 
whip.  Remove  from  the  stove  to  let  cool.  While  it  is  cool- 
ing, separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  beat 
each  separately,  and  then  add  the  beaten  yolk  to  the  pud- 
ding, and  lastly  fold  in  lightly  the  well-beaten  whites.  Dip 
up  a  spoonful  and  drop  it  in  a  saucer  of  flour,  rolling  it  over 
to  get  it  all  covered,  and  then  drop  it  in  the  soup,  which 
should  be  in  the  inner  cup  of  a  double  boiler.  Continue  this 
until  all  the  dumplings  are  in;  then  cover,  and  cook  twenty 


292  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

minutes.  The  reason  for  cooking  them  in  a  double  boiler  is 
to  keep  them  at  the  same  temperature  of  heat  and  not  boil. 
They  can  be  cooked  in  an  ordinary  kettle,  but  the  kettle 
must  be  set  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove,  where  it  will  keep 
just  below  the  boiling-point.  Serve  at  once.  Dumplings 
are  spoiled  if  they  have  to  stand. 

ZWIEOLA   DUMPLINGS. 

Take  2  cups  of  nut  milk  and  heat  it  to  boiling,  add  |  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  then  stir  in  i  cup  of  zwieola  and  I  cup 
of  white  flour,  adding  the  zwieola  first  and  then  the  white 
flour.  Remove  from  the  stove,  and  when  cool,  fold  in  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  thick  cream,  and  lastly  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites,  drop  in  tablespoonfuls  into  boiling  hot 
soup,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  half  an  hour.  They  can 
be  cooked  in  an  ordinary  kettle,  but  it  must  be  set  on  the  top 
of  the  stove  in  a  place  where  it  will  not  boil  after  the  dump- 
lings have  been  added,  or  they  will  boil  to  pieces.  They 
may  be  cooked  in  any  soup,  but  a  nut-broth  soup  or  a  raw 
peanut  milk  soup  is  especially  nice  for  dumplings. 

NOODLES  FOR  SOUP. 

Beat  i  egg,  add  a  little  salt,  and  as  much  flour  as  it  will 
take  up.  Roll  as  thin  as  brown  paper,  sprinkle  very  lightly 
with  flour,  roll  up  into  a  large  roll,  and  slice  from  the  ends, 
into  narrow  strips.  Shake  out  the  strips  lightly  and  drop 
into  the  soup. 

BOUILLON  NO.  J,  OR  NUT  BROTH. 

Take  some  blanched  almonds  and  roast  them  in  the  oven 
until  quite  brown,  but  do  not  burn.  Grind  them  through  the 
nut-butter  mill;  then  add  some  cold  water  about  i  pint  for  i 


SOUPS.  293 

heaping  tablespoonful  of  ground  almonds.  Put  it  on  the  stove 
and  simmer  for  one  hour,  add  salt  to  taste,  and  strain  through 
a  fine  wire  sieve  (coffee  strainer),  and  serve  in  hot  cups.  This 
is  rich,  and  has  the  taste  of  beef  broth.  It  is  also  very  good  as 
a  stock  for  nearly  all  kinds  of  soup. 

BOUILLON  NO.  2. 

Take  some  pine-nuts,  wash  and  salt  slightly,  about  i  tea- 
spoonful  to  i  cup  of  nuts,  putting  the  nuts  in  a  pie-tin,  and 
sprinkling  the  salt  over  them.  Place  in  the  oven  and  toast  to 
a  medium  brown,  but  do  not  burn  them;  pour  into  a  plate  or 
pie-tin,  and  mash  with  a  cup  or  tumbler,  rolling  them  as  with 
a  rolling-pin.  They  are  very  tender,  and  can  be  crushed  be- 
tween the  fingers.  Take  one  tablespoonful  of  the  crushed 
pine-nuts  to  one  pint  of  water,  and  cook  for  one  hour,  simmer- 
ing gently.  Salt  to  taste  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve. 
Serve  hot  in  hot  cups. 

Bouillon  is  to  be  served  instead  of  soup  with  luncheon 
or  with  a  very  hearty  dinner  where  the  entrees  are 
elaborate. 

BOUILLON  NO.  3. 

Slice  the  kernels  of  Brazil-nuts  and  place  them  on  a  tin  in 
the  oven  to  brown  a  nice  straw  color.  When  cold,  grind 
them,  or  they  can  be  easily  pulverized  by  rolling  on  a  platter 
with  a  glass  bottle.  A  wooden  cake  board  and  rolling-pin 
absorbs  so  much  of  the  oil,  it  is  not  a  good  thing  to  use. 
But  if  one  has  a  marble  slab  and  a  glass  rolling-pin,  the  nuts 
can  be  pulverized  very  quickly  and  easily.  When  real  fine, 
use  i  tablespoonful  for  i  cup  of  bouillon.  Let  it  simmer  for 
half  an  hour  or  longer.  Strain  through  a  coffee  strainer. 
Salt  to  suit  the  taste,  and  serve  very  hot,  in  cups. 


294  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

BOUILLON  NO.  4. 

Crack  some  butternuts  on  the  end,  and  pick  out  as  whole 
as  possible.  Place  on  a  tin,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  the  inside  of  the  kernels  are  a  dark  straw  color;  then  set 
in  a  cool  but  dry  place.  When  perfectly  cold,  the  skins  will 
be  loose,  and  can  be  easily  blanched  by  rubbing  between 
thumb  and  finger.  Grind  or  pulverize,  and  stew  gently  about 
i  teaspoonful  for  i  cup  of  broth. 

BOUILLON  NO.  5. 

Take  English  walnuts  and  toast  them  the  same  as  the 
butternuts  in  the  preceding  recipe.  When  blanched  and 
pulverized,  use  i  teaspoonful  for  i  cup  of  broth,  stew 
^riitly  a  half-hour  or  longer.  Strain  through  a  coffee 
strainer,  and  salt  to  suit  the  taste.  Serve  very  hot. 

Pecans,  hickory-nuts,  or  hazelnuts  may  be  used  in  the 
same  way. 

SOUP  STOCK. 

The  bouillon  made  from  any  of  the  nuts  makes  an  excel- 
lent stock  for  soups,  and  those  accustomed  to  using  soup  stock 
made  from  meat,  will  immediately  think  it  an  improvement 
to  many  of  the  soups.  The  bouillon  with  vermicelli,  maca- 
roni, or  rice  makes  a  very  nice  soup  with  only  the  addition 
of  salt. 

ALMOND  SOUP  NO.  J. 

Take  i  pound  of  almond  meal  or  butter,  i  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch,  i  quart  of  hot  water, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  First  blanch,  dry,  and  grind  the  almonds 
in  the  nut  mill  or  pound  them  in  a  mortar.  Then  add  salt, 
sugar,  and  water  or  almond  milk  if  preferred.  Let  it  boil 
slowly  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  and  then  add  the  starch 


sorrs.  295 

rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water.  Let  it  boil  slowly  for  a 
minute  or  two,  so  that  the  starch  will  have  time  to  cook. 
Have  ready  in  the  tureen  or  each  individual  soup-plate  a  few 
alrnonds  which  have  been  blanched  and  dried  in  the  oven. 
Pour  the  soup  over  them,  and  serve  with  almond  rolls  or  nut- 
coa  crisps. 

ALMOND  SOUP  NO.  2. 

Take  I  cup  of  whole-wheat  flour  and  .',  cup  of  almond 
meal  ;  sift  together  while  dry,  and  then  rub  smooth  in  cold 
water,  adding  a  little  at  a  time  until  it  is  thin.  Then  pour  on 
boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  time  and  adding  it  only  as  fast  as 
it  can  be  kept  smooth  ;  place  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  for 
one  hour.  If  too  thick,  it  can  be  thinned  with  water  or  nut 
milk  made  of  almonds. 

ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 

Take  2  bunches  of  tender  asparagus,  cut  into  pieces, 
put  into  boiling  water,  and  let  simmer  until  perfectly  tender. 
There  should  be  about  I  quart  of  water  left.  Rub  all  but  the 
hard  pieces  through  the  colander.  Flavor  with  salt  and  nut 
butter  (almond  butter  or  raw  peanut  cream  preferred).  Re- 
heat and  serve  with  toasted  bread  or  crackers. 

DRIED  BEAN  SOUP. 

Look  over  and  wash  I  quart  of  dry  beans  and  put  to  soak 
in  cold  water  overnight.  The  next  morning  put  them  in  the 
soup  kettle  with  4  quarts  of  cold  water,  add  i  grated  onion, 
peel  and  slice  i  turnip  and  I  carrot  and  add  with  the  rest. 
Boil  these  ingredients  very  slowly  for  three  hours,  or  until 
they  are  tender  enough  to  rub  through  a  sieve.  Then  return 
to  the  kettle  with  the  broth  in  which  it  was  cooked.  After 


2(}6  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

they  have  been  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water,  add  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  nut  butter  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  white 
flour.  Season  with  salt  and  serve  with  croutons. 

BEAN  SOUP. 

Take  2  cups  of  left-over  beans  and  two  cups  of  cold 
mashed  potatoes.  Put  in  a  kettle  with  a  pint  of  water,  and 
let  boil  until  warmed  through.  Put  through  a  colander  and 
season  with  salt  and  nut  butter  and  thin  with  water  to  the 
desired  thickness.  Thyme  or  parsley  may  be  added  to  flavor 
if  desired. 

KIDNEY-BEAN  SOUP. 

Soak  i  pint  of  kidney-beans  overnight,  and  in  the  morn- 
ing put  them  to  cook  in  boiling  water.  When  perfectly  ten- 
der put  through  a  colander  and  season  with  i  grated  onion, 
salt  and  peanut  butter  to  taste.  Add  enough  boiling  water 
to  make  2  quarts  in  all.  Thicken  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
flour  or  gluten. 

STRING-BEAN  SOUP. 

String  and  cut  in  small  pieces  enough  string-beans  to 
make  i  pint.  Wash  well  and  put  to  cook  in  boiling,  salted 
water.  When  tender,  rub  through  a  colander,  then  return  to 
the  stove.  Season  with  salt  and  raw  peanut  cream  to  suit 
the  taste,  and  thicken  by  adding  finely  grated  zwieback. 

BEET  SOUP. 

Boil  ^  small  beets.  Let  them  get  cold  and  grate  them. 
Add  i  quart  of  nut  milk,  part  nut  cream  if  desired.  Heat  to 
boiling,  and  salt  and  thicken  with  a  little  white  flour.  I  cup 
of  raw  peanut  cream  and  3  cups  of  water  make  a  nice  milk 
for  this  soup. 


SOUPS.  297 

CARROT  SOUP. 

Slice  i  onion,  place  on  an  oiled  tin,  and  bake  in  the  oven 
until  of  a  rich  brown  color.  Place  in  a  stew-pan,  add  to 
them  i  sliced  carrot  and  i  sliced  turnip,  and  cook  for  an  hour. 
Then  add  .1  cup  of  rice,  cook  one  hour  more,  and  press 
through  a  sieve.  After  pressing  through  the  sieve,  return  to 
the  stove.  Add  nut  milk  enough  to  make  of  the  right  con- 
sistency and  salt  to  taste.  Just  before  serving,  burn  a  little 
brown  sugar  and  stir  through  it.  This  gives  it  a  nice  flavor 
and  a  rich  color. 

CREAM  SOUP. 

Wash  thoroughly  12  pound  of  rice  after  picking  out  all  the 
dark  and  colored  ones.  Put  into  a  saucepan,  and  add  2 
quarts  of  water.  Boil  slowly  for  one  hour,  then  rub  through 
a  sieve  twice.  Return  to  the  stove.  Season  with  salt,  raw 
peanut  cream,  and  a  very  little  grated  onion  if  desired.  Serve 
at  once,  with  one  poached  egg  in  each  soup-plate. 

BRAZIL-NUT  SOUP. 

Boil  2  tablespoonfuls  of  washed  rice  in  i  quart  of  water 
until  quite  soft.  Add  more  boiling  water  to  make  up  for 
evaporation,  and  4  or  6  grated  Brazil-nuts  (4  large  or  6  small), 
cover  closely  and  keep  boiling  at  least  fifteen  minutes.  Serve 
with  crisps. 

Fine  hominy,  pearl  barley,  or  hulled  corn  may  be  used 
instead  of  rice.  Any  other  grated  nut  may  be  used. 

CHESTNUT  SOUP  NO.  \. 

Shell  and  blanch  i  pound  of  chestnuts.  To  blanch,  pour 
boiling  water  over  them,  and  let  stand  two  minutes,  then 
turn  off  the  water,  and  the  skins  will  rub  off.  Put  into 


298  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

i  quart  of  boiling  water  with  I  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion, 
i  tablespoonful  of  chopped  celery,  a  little  parsley,  and  cook 
until  the  chestnuts  will  press  through  the  colander.  Then  re- 
turn to  the  stove  and  add  salt  and  raw  peanut  cream  to  taste. 
Thicken  with  a  little  white  flour  to  the  right  thickness  for 
soup,  and  serve  hot. 

CHESTNUT  SOUP  NO.  2. 

Shell,  blanch,  and  boil  chestnuts  enough  to  make  2  cup- 
fuls  when  pressed  through  a  sieve.  Add  boiling  water  very 
slowly,  stirring  all  the  time,  and  keeping  the  mixture  smooth, 
When  i  quart  has  been  added,  let  it  boil  up,  and  if  you  fancy 
it  thinner,  add  i  cupful  more.  Add  salt  if  desired. 

CHESTNUT  SOUP  NO.  3. 

Grind  the  chestnuts  through  the  mill,  not  making  them 
very  fine;  for  each  cup  of  the  ground  chestnuts  add  i  cup 
of  cold  water.  Work  it  well  with  a  spoon  or  the  hand  and 
pour  into  a  bowl  lined  with  cheese-cloth,  fold  the  edges  of 
the  cloth  together,  and  press  out  the  milk.  Put  this  milk  in  a 
double  boiler  and  let  it  cook  for  an  hour  or  more.  The  starch 
in  the  milk  will  thicken  it  enough.  It  only  needs  a  little  salt 
and  then  is  ready  to  serve. 

Chestnut  milk  contains  too  much  raw  starch  to  be  eaten 
without  cooking. 

CHESTNUT  SOUP  NO.  4. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  mashed  chestnuts  and  well-cooked 
beans.  Press  them  through  a  sieve,  thin  with  boiling  water, 
boil  up  once,  salt  to  taste,  and  if  desired  a  little  onion  juice 
or  celery  salt  may  be  added. 


SOUPS.  299 

CHESTNUT  SOUP  NO.  5. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  mashed  chestnuts  and  well-cooked 
dried  peas,  split  peas,  or  green  peas.  Press  through  a  sieve, 
thin  to  taste  with  boiling  water  ;  boil  up  once  and  serve. 

CABBAGE  SOUP. 

Take  i  head  of  cabbage  sliced  fine,  and  cooked  until  per- 
fectly tender,  which  will  require  two  or  three  hours.  Rub 
through  a  colander  to  make  smooth.  Thin  with  water  and 
raw  peanut  cream  and  season  with  salt.  Thicken  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  white  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold 
water. 

CELERY  SOUP. 

Take  2  large  heads  of  fresh,  crisp  celery,  cut  in  finger 
lengths,  and  cook  in  boiling  water  until  very  tender;  then 
add  2  cups  of  cold  mashed  potatoes.  Sift  all  through  the 
colander  and  place  on  the  stove  to  reheat.  Season  with  i 
level  tablespoonful  of  nut  butter  (almond  is  best),  and  salt  to 
taste.  Add  enough  water  to  make  the  desired  thickness,  and 
serve. 

CREME  DE  POTIRON. 

Take  3  pounds  of  pumpkin,  2  quarts  of  nut  milk,  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  almond  meal,  i  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Cut  the 
pumpkin  into  slices  and  boil  until  tender.  Sift  through  the 
colander,  and  add  the  sugar  and  salt,  then  add  the  nut  milk. 
When  hot,  serve  with  croutons. 

CUCUMBER  AND  TAPIOCA  SOUP. 

Select  fresh,  tender  cucumbers,  peel,  and  cut  in  slices 
crosswise,  and  simmer  in  i  quart  of  water  for  twenty  minutes, 
or  until  tender;  then  press  through  a  sieve  with  the  water  in 


3<DO  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

which  they  were  cooked.  Soak  2  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca 
for  one  hour  in  i  pint  of  cold  water;  then  put  in  the  inner 
cup  of  a  double  boiler,  and  place  this  in  the  outer  boiler,  in 
which  the  water  should  be  boiling.  Cook  until  the  tapioca 
is  perfectly  clear.  Heat  the  cucumbers,  and  add  i  teaspoon- 
ful  of  onion  juice  and  salt  to  taste,  and  turn  in  the  cooked 
tapioca.  Have  ready  in  the  tureen  2  egg  yolks  well  beaten. 
Pour  the  hot  soup  over  them  gradually,  stirring  briskly  in  the 
meantime.  Dry  bread  grated  fine  may  be  used  for  thickening 
instead  of  tapioca,  if  desired. 

GREEN  CORN  SOUP. 

Select  corn  that  is  tender,  it  must  not  be  too  ripe.  Husk 
and  remove  all  silks,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  each  row  of 
kernels  through  the  center,  and  with  the  back  of  the  knife 
scrape  or  press  the  kernels  from  the  hulls.  When  the  corn 
is  removed  from  the  cob,  grind  it  through  a  loosely  adjusted 
nut-butter  mill  to  make  it  fine  and  smooth.  To  i  pint  of  this 
corn  pulp,  add  i  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  for  a  half-hour;  then  season  with  nut  butter  (almond 
is  better,  but  the  peanut  is  good),  using  i  level  tablespoonful 
dissolved  in  2  of  hot  water;  salt  to  taste.  A  milk  made  of 
i  tablespoonful  of  raw  peanut  butter  to  i  \  pints  of  water  is 
excellent  to  season  corn,  but  it  must  be  cooked  with  the  corn. 

DRIED  CORN  SOUP. 

Take  nice,  dried  sweet  corn,  and  grind  through  a  grain  or 
coffee  mill.  Take  i  cup  of  the  ground  sweet  corn  and  cook 
in  a  double  boiler  one  hour.  Add  i  cup  of  nut  milk;  salt 
to  taste.  Thicken  with  i  teaspoonful  of  white  flour  to  keep 
it  from  settling  to  the  bottom.  If  too  thick,  add  more  water. 


SOUPS.  301 

DANISH  SOUP. 

Soak  J  cup  of  sago  in  i  quart  of  cold  water  two  hours. 
Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  transparent.  Add  |  cup  of 
sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  i  \  cups  of  fresh  red  raspberries. 
If  desired,  black  raspberries  or  a  mixture  of  fruits,  such  as 
prunes,  cranberries,  and  stewed  raisins,  may  be  used. 

EGG  AND  POTATO  SOUR 

Cook  i  pint  of  sliced  potatoes  in  enough  water  to  cover 
them.  When  tender,  rub  through  a  colander  or  vegetable 
press  and  add  enough  hot  water  to  make  i  quart  of  soup; 
then  add  i  teaspoonful  of  nut  butter  which  has  been  rubbed 
smooth  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Place  on  the  stove  and  heat  to  boiling.  Slowly  pour  thin 
soup  over  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  stirring  rapidly 
to  mix  the  egg  evenly  with  the  soup  before  it  cooks  in  curds. 
Serve  at  once  without  reheating. 

LENTIL  SOUP. 

Cook  until  tender  and  rub  through  a  colander.  To  i  pint 
of  sifted  lentils  add  i  tablespoonful  of  nut  butter,  i  grated 
onion,  and  salt  to  taste.  Add  sufficient  water  to  make  of  the 
right  consistency  for  soups.  Thicken  with  i  teaspoonful  of 
white  flour  to  keep  it  from  settling,  and  serve  hot.  This  is  to 
be  eaten  with  zwieback  which  is  made  as  follows  :  Take  nice 
bread  that  is  very  light  and  porous,  that  which  is  two  or  three 
days  old  is  better  than  fresh  bread;  cut  in  even  slices  about 
two  thirds  of  an  inch  thick,  and  place  in  the  warming  oven  to 
dry,  or  in  the  oven  if  it  is  not  too  hot.  If  it  is  toasted  too 
fast  or  the  bread  is  moist,  it  will  be  hard  and  tough,  but  if  it 
is  dry  and  toasted  slowly,  it  will  be  brittle  and  tender  when 


3O2  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

done.  It  should  be  toasted  clear  through  until  it  is  of  a  light- 
brown  color.  It  may  be  made  of  white,  graham,  or  whole- 
wheat flour. 

LETTUCE  SOUP. 

Pull  apart  and  wash  thoroughly  as  much  lettuce  as  needed, 
put  in  a  hot  saucepan,  and  shake  over  the  fire  until  the  leaves 
melt.  Sprinkle  on  salt  and  then  press  through  a  sieve.  Mince 
a  little  parsley,  pound  it  to  a  paste,  and  add  to  the  sifted  let- 
tuce, then  stir  in  I  quart  of  nut  milk  which  has  been  heated. 
Let  boil  up  once.  Season  and  serve.  It  may  be  thickened 
if  desired. 

NUT  BARLEY  SOUP. 

Prepare  the  peanuts  as  in  the  recipe  for  peanut  soup,  and 
to  2  cups  of  sifted  peanuts  take  i  cup  of  cooked  barley, 
i  grated  onion,  and  a  little  salt.  Thin  with  boiling  water, 
and  let  simmer  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Serve  hot  with 
croutons. 

OATMEAL  SOUP. 

To  i  cup  of  cold  cooked  oatmeal  add  i  teaspoonful  of 
grated  onion,  a  little  minced  celery  tops,  and  salt  to  suit  the 
taste.  Cover  and, boil  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  A 
cup  of  chopped  nut  meats.  Press  through  a  sieve  and  return 
to  the  fire.  When  boiling,  add  water  or  nut  milk,  and  serve. 

ONION  SOUP  NO.  J. 

Cook  the  onions  as  directed  for  stewed  onions.  (See  in- 
dex.)  When  very  tender,  put  through  a  vegetable  press  or 
colander  to  make  them  smooth.  Salt  to  taste,  and  flavor 
with  almond  or  peanut  butter  ;  thin  with  water.  If  desired, 
a  little  white  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  water  may  be 


SOUPS.  3°3 

added  for  thickening.  Raw  peanut  milk  that  has  been  cooked 
in  a  double  boiler  for  one  or  two  hours  is  the  best  seasoning 
for  this  soup. 

ONION  SOUP  NO.  2. 

Cook  the  onions  as  previously  directed  and  sift  through  a 
colander.  To  i  cup  of  sifted  onions  add  i  cup  of  sifted  pota- 
toes. Salt  to  taste  ;  add  enough  nut  milk  to  make  of  the 
right  consistency  for  soup. 

PLAIN  SOUP. 

Take  2  tablespoonfuls  of  peanut  butter  emulsified  in 
I  quart  of  boiling  water  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  one 
hour.  Salt  to  taste  just  before  serving.  This  soup  may  be 
varied  by  adding  celery,  onions,  summer  savory,  or  thyme,  to 
flavor,  or  steamed  rice,  cooked  macaroni,  vermicelli,  or  vege- 
tables cut  fine  and  cooked  in  the  soup. 

PEA  SOUP. 

Prepare  the  peas  as  directed  under  Peas,  and  to  i  pint  of 
the  sifted  peas  add  i  level  tablespoonful  of  peanut  butter, 
salt  to  taste,  and  if  desired,  the  juice  of  one  onion.  Grate 
the  onion,  and  press  out  the  juice  with  a  spoon.  Add  suffi- 
cient water  to  make  of  the  right  consistency.  If  thickened 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  it  will  keep  the  peas  from  settling. 

PEANUT   SOUP  NO.  J. 

Cook  the  peanuts  as  directed.  (See  index.)  Sift  them 
through  a  colander.  To  the  sifted  peanuts  add  water  enough 
to  make  of  the  right  consistency  for  soup,  and  flavor  with  salt 
and  a  little  grated  onion  to  taste;  or  cooked  onions  pressed 
through  a  colander  are  better  still. 


304  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

PEANUT  SOUP   NO.   2. 

Cook  peanuts  as  directed.  (See  index.)  When  sifted 
through  a  colander,  take  3  cups  of  sifted  peanuts  to  I  cup  of 
strained  tomatoes.  Salt  to  taste.  Add  enough  water  to 
make  of  the  right  consistency. 

RAW  PEANUT  MILK  SOUP. 

Take  i  pint  of  milk  that  has  been  extracted  from  raw 
peanuts,  or  i  tablespoonful  of  raw  butter  in  i  quart  of  water, 
and  place  in  the  inner  cup  of  the  double  boiler.  When  boil- 
ing, place  in  the  outer  part  of  the  boiler,  the  water  in  which 
should  be  boiling,  and  cook  for  two  hours.  A  sprig  of  pars- 
ley may  be  cooked  in  it  and  removed  just  before  serving,  or  a 
little  onion  juice  may  be  used  instead.  It  will  not  need  any 
thickening,  as  the  milk  thickens  when  it  cooks. 

PEANUT  TOMATO  SOUP. 

Boil  the  peanuts  as  directed.  (See  index,  i  Sift  through  a 
colander  to  make  them  perfectly  smooth.  To  i  cup  of  sifted 
peanuts  add  .\  cup  of  sifted  tomatoes,  i  cup  of  water,  and 
salt  to  taste.  Thicken  with  i  teaspoonful  of  white  flour  to 
keep  it  from  settling.  If  it  is  too  thick,  thin  with  water. 

PARSNIP  SOUR 

Pare  and  slice  4  medium-sized  parsnips  and  put  them  to 
cook.  After  boiling  one  hour,  add  4  medium-sized  potatoes 
sliced,  and  let  cook  until  tender.  Rub  through  a  colander. 
Put  in  enough  nut  milk  to  make  it  as  thin  as  desired,  and 
season  with  salt  to  taste.  If  desired,  the  parsnips  and  pota- 
toes may  be  sliced  very  thin,  or  chopped,  and  not  put  through 
a  colander.  If  this  latter  is  done,  thicken  with  i  spoonful  of 
white  flour. 


SOUPS.  305 

SQUASH  SOUP. 

Select  a  good  summer  squash,  the  crookneck  is  the  best 
flavored.  Wash  thoroughly,  cut  up  in  small  pieces,  and  cook 
in  a  graniteware  kettle  or  in  one  that  will  not  color  the 
squash.  It  is  not  necessary  to  peel,  or  remove  the  seeds. 
When  tender,  put  through  a  sieve  with  the  water  in  which  it 
was  boiled.  Add  salt  and  nut  cream  to  taste,  and  thicken  by 
putting  in  a  little  grated  bread.  The  bread  should  be  dried 
through,  then  make  it  fine  by  grating  it  on  a  grater.  Serve 
with  nut  crisps  or  croutons. 

TOMATO  NUTMEATOSE  SOUP. 

Take  one  rather  small  onion  and  grate  fine.  Add  i  cup 
of  sifted  tomatoes,  i  cup  of  grated  nutmeatose,  i  cup  of 
water,  and  salt  to  taste.  Thicken  with  a  very  little  gluten. 
Serve  hot. 

TOMATO  CELERY  SOUR 

Take  i  onion  grated,  2  tomatoes,  i  celery  head,  i  carrot 
sliced,  i  spoonful  of  brown  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste.  Cook 
until  tender  and  serve  with  croutons. 

CLEAR  TOMATO  SOUP. 

Take  i  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes,  i  teaspoonful  of  grated 
onion,  i  tablespoonful  of  pearl  sago,  i  pint  of  water,  i  pint 
of  thin  nut  cream,  and  salt  to  taste.  Cover  the  sago  with 
the  pint  of  water  and  let  soak  for  twenty  minutes,  then  stand 
on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  where  it  will  cook  very  slowly 
until  the  sago  is  transparent  and  the  water  almost  boiling. 
Place  the  tomatoes  in  a  stew-pan,  add  the  parsley  and  onion, 
and  cook  for  ten  minutes;  then  add  to  the  tomatoes  the  nut 

20 


306  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

cream  and  put  through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire,  add  the 
salt  and  lastly  the  sago,  and  serve  at  once.  Serve  with  white- 
flour  crisps  or  rolls. 

TOMATO   SOUP  NO.  J. 

Take  i  pint  of  sifted  tomatoes,  i  grated  onion,  i  table- 
spoonful  of  minced  parsley,  i  tablespoonful  of  minced  celery, 
i  pint  of  peanut  milk  or  cream  as  may  be  desired.  Serve  hot 
with  crackers  or  croutons;  i  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a  little 
salt  should  be  added  to  the  above. 

TOMATO    SOUP  NO.  2. 

Select  6  ripe  but  sound  tomatoes  which  have  a  good 
thick  meat.  Cut  in  small  pieces,  and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan 
with  i  pint  of  rich  nut  milk,  i  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion, 
and  a  sprig  of  parsley.  Cook  slowly  twenty  minutes,  and 
put  through  a  sieve  fine  enough  to  remove  the  tomato  seeds; 
return  to  the  fire  and  add  i  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  dis- 
solved in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  nut  cream.  Add  salt  to  taste. 
Serve  with  crackers  or  croutons. 

TURNIP  SOUP. 

Take  4  very  tender  and  fresh  turnips,  medium  size,  slice, 
and  then  cut  into  small  pieces  and  cook  in  as  little  water  as 
possible  without  burning.  Add  2  grated  onions,  or  have 
them  chopped  very  fine,  and  cook  with  the  turnips.  When 
very  tender,  add  i  cup  of  sifted  tomatoes  and  a  little  celery 
salt,  or  minced  parsley.  Let  boil  up,  and  serve  with  croutons. 
iSre  directions  for  making  croutons.)  Rutabagas  may  be 
used  in  the  place  of  turnips,  if  the  turnips  can  not  be  obtained, 
but  are  not  quite  so  nice  flavored. 


SOUPS.  307 


VEGETABLE    OYSTER  SOUP. 

Select  fresh  vegetable  oysters,  and  soak  in  cold  water  a 
half-hour  before  preparing  for  cooking;  scrape  and  drop  in  a 
dish  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them.  This  will  prevent 
their  turning  black.  When  all  are  cleaned,  slice  as  quickly 
as  possible  and  drop  into  boiling  hot  water  and  cook  until 
perfectly  tender  and  nearly  dry.  Then  rub  through  a  colan- 
der and  thin  with  nut  cream  (the  raw  peanut  cream  that  has 
been  cooked  is  best  for  this  soup),  salt  to  taste,  and  serve  hot. 
If  desired,  I  part  of  mashed  potatoes  to  i  part  of  vegetable 
oysters  may  be  used  instead  of  clear  oysters,  and  is  quite  an 
improvement. 

VERMICELLI  AND  OYSTER  SOUR 

Peel  and  slice  onions  to  measure  i  pint,  and  boil  in  2 
quarts  of  water.  Break  i  package  of  vermicelli  into  short 
pieces  and  add  to  the  onions,  about  fifteen  minutes  before 
serving.  Season  with  salt  and  nut  butter  to  taste.  The 
butter  should  first  be  emulsified. 

VEGETABLE   SOUP   NO,  f. 

Take  2  quarts  of  boiling  water,  i  small  carrot,  I  turnip,  i 
sweet  potato,  i  white  potato,  i  ear  of  corn,  i  cupful  of 
peas,  i  cupful  of  beans,  i  tomato,  and  i  tablespoonful  of 
rice.  Put  the  water  in  a  soup  kettle,  cut  the  vegetables  into 
pieces  of  equal  sizes,  put  the  carrots  and  turnips  on  first,  and 
boil  one  hour.  Then  add  all  the  other  vegetables  and  rice, 
and  boil  until  tender.  A  grated  onion  may  be  added  if  its 
taste  is  agreeable.  Season  with  salt  and  nut  cream,  and 
serve  hot. 


3O8  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP  NO.  2. 

Take  i  onion,  i  cup  of  green  peas,  i  head  of  lettuce 
minced  fine,  i  small  bunch  of  parsley  minced  fine,  i  cup  of 
thick  nut  cream,  3  egg  yolks,  i|  quarts  of  water.  Grate  the 
onion,  and  put  it  and  the  other  vegetables  in  a  kettle  and  boil 
until  tender,  then  skim  out  the  vegetables.  Add  salt  and  nut 
cream  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  and  then  add  the 
vegetables  again. 

VEGETABLE  BROTH. 

Boil  and  cut  into  pieces  i  carrot,  i  onion,  and  i  potato. 
Put  them  on  oiled  tins,  brush  them  over  with  nut  cream  or 
nut  oil,  and  bake  in  the  oven  until  they  are  a  nice  brown;  put 
them  in  a  saucepan  and  let  simmer  for  twenty  minutes,  then 
press  through  a  sieve  or  colander.  Return  to  the  kettle  and 
add  salt  and  nut  cream  if  desired.  Serve  with  nutmeato  balls. 

POT  AU  FEU. 

Slice  i  onion,  place  on  an  oiled  tin,  and  bake  in  the  oven 
until  it  is  of  a  rich  brown  color,  then  place  in  a  stew-pan; 
add  to  it  i  sliced  carrot  and  i  sliced  turnip,  and  cook  for  one 
hour;  add  ^  CUP  °f  rice,  and  cook  one  hour  more;  then  press 
through  a  sieve,  and  return  to  the  stove;  add  nut  milk  enough 
to  make  of  the  right  consistency,  and  salt  to  taste;  just 
before  serving,  burn  a  little  brown  sugar  and  stir  through  it, 
This  gives  it  a  peculiar  flavor  and  a  rich  color. 


FOR  NEW  RECIPES. 


[309] 


FOR  NEW  RECIPES. 


[310] 


GRAVIES  FOR  VEGETABLES  AND 

TOASTS. 


TO  BROWN  FLOUR. 

OPREAD  flour  on  a  pie-tin  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch 
O  thick,  and  place  in  a  very  hot  oven.  When  it  begins  to 
color,  stir  constantly  until  browned  clear  through,  but  not 
burned.  Put  it  in  glass  jars.  It  is  excellent  for  gravies  and 
coloring  soups,  and  should  be  kept  on  hand. 

NUT  GRAVY  NO.  J. 

Heat  i  pint  of  water  to  boiling.  Take  a  little  of  the  boil- 
ing water  and  i  tablespoonful  of  nut  butter,  and  rub  smooth; 
then  add  to  it  the  water.  To  this  add  2  level  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour  which  has  been  lightly  browned,  rubbed  smooth  in  a 
little  cold  water.  Salt  to  taste,  and  let  boil  a  few  minutes. 

NUT  GRAVY  NO.  2. 

Take  i  pint  of  water,  i  pint  of  strained  tomatoes,  i  table- 
spoonful  of  nut  butter  emulsified  with  cold  water,  and  a  little 
salt.  Heat  and  thicken  with  browned  flour  rubbed  smooth 
in  a  little  cold  water. 

ALMOND  CREAM  GRAVY. 

Take  i  pint  of  hot  water,  and  i  level  tablespoonful  of 
almond  butter  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  water;  then  stir  into 
the  water,  and  when  boiling,  thicken  with  i  tablespoonful  of 

[3"] 


312  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

white    flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water.      Salt    to 
taste  and  serve  with  vegetables. 

ASPARAGUS  GRAVY. 

Select  good  tender  asparagus,  cook  until  tender,  and  rub 
through  a  colander.  To  2  cups  of  the  sifted  asparagus  add  i 
cup  of  water  and  I  teaspoonful  of  almond  butter  dissolved  in  a 
little  of  the  hot  water  or  i  tablespoonful  of  raw  peanut  cream. 
The  taste  of  roasted  peanut  butter  does  not  blend  well  with 
asparagus.  Add  salt  to  taste,  and  thicken  with  white  flour  to 
the  right  consistency.  Serve  on  toast  or  vegetables. 

CELERY  GRAVY. 

Take  very  brittle  celery  and  cook  in  water  until  perfectly 
tender;  then  rub  through  a  colander  or  fine  sieve  to  make  it 
smooth.  Take  out  all  the  strings  and  hard  pieces,  if  there 
should  be  any.  To  i  cup  of  the  sifted  celery  add  i  A  cups  of 
water,  or  the  water  in  which  it  was  cooked,  if  there  is  any. 
Salt  and  flavor  with  almond  butter  or  raw  peanut  cream  to 
taste,  and  thicken  with  white  flour.  This  is  excellent  on 
toasts  and  vegetables. 

EGG  GRAVY. 

To  i  pint  of  water  use  i  level  tablespoonful  of  nut  butter, 
dissolve  in  the  water,  and  thicken  with  white  flour  until  it  is  a 
nice  thin  gravy.  Add  i  egg  well  beaten  the  last  thing  before 
removing  from  the  stove.  The  white  of  the  egg  may  be 
omitted  if  desired. 

HARD-BOILED  EGG  GRAVY. 

Take  2  hard-boiled  eggs  and  put  them  through  a  sieve, 
both  whites  and  yolks,  then  add  them  to  a  thin  cream  gravy, 
and  serve  with  vegetables. 


GRAVIES.  313 

LENTIL  GRAVY. 

To  i  cup  of  sifted  lentils  add  i  pint  of  water  and  a  few 
slices  of  onion.  Let  boil  ten  minutes  and  skim  out  the  onions. 
Flavor  with  peanut  butter,  and  salt  to  taste;  thicken  with  i 
teaspoonful  of  white  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water. 
If  too  thick,  thin  with  more  water. 

NUTMEATO  GRAVY. 

Take  ^  pound  of  nutmeato,  grated  fine,  ^  cup  of  strained 
tomatoes,  \  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  \  cup  of  water.  Cook  in 
a  double  boiler  or  on  the  back  of  the  stove.  Stir  all  the 
time  until  smooth  and  thick.  Serve  on  hot  dipped  toast  or 
vegetables. 

ONION  GRAVY. 

Boil  4  or  5  good-sized  white  onions  until  tender.  Rub 
through  a  colander,  add  i  cup  of  nut  cream  made  by  dissolv- 
ing i  level  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  i  cup  of  water,  or  use 
raw  peanut  milk  after  it  has  been  cooked.  Salt  to  taste,  and 
thicken  with  i  tablespoonful  of  white  flour.  This  is  a  very 
nice  gravy  for  potatoes. 

PEA  GRAVY. 

Take  \  cup  of  sifted  Scotch  peas,  or  the  same  quantity  of 
sifted  green  peas,  and  add  to  it  i  cup  of  water  in  which  has 
been  dissolved  i  teaspoonful  of  nut  butter.  Thicken  with  i 
teaspoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water. 
Serve  hot  on  toast,  rice,  or  vegetables. 

PARSLEY  GRAVY. 

Take  a  sprig  of  parsley,  wash  it  well,  and  put  in  boiling 
water  which  has  been  salted  a  very  little.  Boil  it  for  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes,  and  then  chop  it  very  fine  and  put  it 


314  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

and  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled  into  a  nut  gravy  made 
like  No.  i,  or  if  desired  only  the  water  may  be  added  to  give 
it  the  parsley  taste. 

PARCHED  CORN  GRAVY. 

Make  the  corn  flour  by  parching  coarse  corn  thoroughly 
brown  in  the  oven  ;  grind  in  coffee-mill  to  a  fine  flour.  Use 
i  tablespoonful  of  this,  i  tablespoonful  of  nut  butter,  and 
i  cup  of  water.  Mix  smooth,  and  add  more  water  while 
cooking  to  thin  it  to  gravy  consistency.  Another  gravy  can 
be  made  by  using  gluten  meal  and  ordinary  milk,  and  still 
another  by  using  white  flour. 

TOMATO  GRAVY  NO.  J. 

To  i  cup  of  strained  tomatoes  add  i  cup  of  water,  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  peanut  butter,  and  salt  to  taste.  Thicken  with 
white  flour.  Serve  on  toast  or  roasts. 

TOMATO  GRAVY  NO.  2. 

Take  i  pint  of  water  and  i  cup  of  sifted  tomatoes,  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  onion  juice,  and  j  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  i 
level  tablespoonful  of  white  flour.  Put  the  water  and  sifted 
tomatoes  in  a  saucepan  and  when  boiling,  add  onion  juice  ; 
salt  and  thicken  with  the  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold 
water. 

TOMATO  GRAVY  NO.  3. 

Make  a  cream  gravy  by  dissolving  i  tablespoonful  of 
almond  butter  in  i  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  thicken  with 
i  heaping  tablespoonful  of  white  flour,  and  salt  to  taste. 
Then  add  just  enough  sifted  tomatoes  to  make  it  a  nice  pink 
color,  and  give  it  a  tomato  taste.  This  is  excellent  on  toast, 
boiled  macaroni,  or  vegetables. 


GRAVIES.  315 

TOMATO  NUT  GRAVY. 

Make  a  gravy  as  directed  in  recipe  No.  i.  Heat  to  boiling 
one  half  as  much  strained  tomato,  and  thicken  it  as  gravies  are 
usually  thickened.  Put  the  two  gravies  together,  stir  well, 
and  you  have  an  excellent  dressing  for  potato,  rice,  or  plain 
boiled  macaroni. 

MOCK  MILK  GRAVY. 

Take  i  large  tablespoonful  of  raw  peanut  butter,  dis- 
solve in  i  quart  of  water,  and  cook  it  in  a  double  boiler  for 
one  hour.  Then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  flour  which 
has  been  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water.  Salt  to  taste, 
and  cook  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

This  is  almost  exactly  like  dairy  milk  gravy. 

RAW  PEANUT  MILK  GRAVY. 

Take  i  pint  of  raw  peanut  milk  and  cook  in  the  inner  part 
of  the  double  boiler  for  an  hour  or  more,  then  salt  to  taste 
and  add  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  i  egg.  If  too  thick,  thin 
with  water  to  the  right  consistency.  Do  not  cook  long  after 
the  egg  is  added,  as  it  may  form  curds. 

PECAN  GRAVY  WITH  EGGS. 

Take  i  pint  of  boiling  water,  2  level  tablespoonfuls 
of  pecan  meal,  i  teaspoonful  of  peanut  butter,  a  little  salt, 
the  yolk  of  i  egg,  and  i  level  tablespoonful  of  white  flour. 

Mix  the  nut  meal,  salt,  nut  butter,  and  yolk  of  the  egg 
until  smooth,  then  put  in  a  little  warm  water  and  rub  smooth, 
add  the  flour,  and  when  evenly  mixed,  stir  into  the  boiling 
water.  This  is  an  excellent  substitute  for  meat  gravy. 


3  I  6  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

HICKORY-NUT  GRAVY. 

To  make  i  pint  of  gravy,  take  i  pint  of  boiling  water  and 
dissolve  in  it  2  tablespoonfuls  of  hickory-nut  meal  ground  quite 
fine,  and  thicken  with  i  heaping  tablespoonful  of  white  flour, 
rubbing  smooth  in  a  very  little  cool  water.  Season  with  salt, 
and  a  very  little  minced  parsley,  if  the  flavor  of  parsley  is 

liked   by  the  family. 

PECAN  GRAVY. 

Take  i  cup  of  water,  i  heaping  tablespoonful  of  pecan 
meal,  i  heaping  tablespoonful  of  white  flour,  and  a  little 
salt. 

Dissolve  the  meal  in  the  boiling  hot  water,  then  salt  and 
stir  in  the  flour  after  it  has  been  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold 
water.  Very  good. 

ROASTED  PINE-NUT  GRAVY. 

Wash  the  pine-nuts  and  roast  them  in  the  oven  till  of  a 
light-brown  color.  Put  them  in  a  cold,  dry  place  to  cool; 
when  cold,  grind  to  a  butter. 

To  I  heaping  tablespoonful  of  this,  use  i  pint  of  water,  i 
tablespoonful  of  white  flour,  and  salt  to  suit  the  taste.  Dis- 
solve the  butter  and  flour  with  the  water,  adding  a  little  at  a 
time.  Let  it  boil  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  to  be  sure  that 
the  flour  is  thoroughly  cooked. 

The  roasted  pine-nut  gives  it  a  very  meaty  flavor. 

ROASTED  ALMOND  GRAVY. 

Blanch  the  almonds  and  roast  them  in  the  oven  until  they 
are  of  a  straw  color.  When  perfectly  cold,  grind  as  fine  as 
possible. 


GRAVIES.  3  I  7 

Use  i  heaping  tablespoonful  of  this  butter  to  I  pint  of 
water,  and  thicken  with  i  tablespoonful  of  white  flour  which 
has  been  lightly  browned  in  the  oven.  Flour  that  is  scorched 
in  the  least  should  not  be  used.  Salt  the  gravy  to  suit  the 
taste.  Roasting  the  almonds  gives  them  more  of  a  meaty 
flavor. 


FOR  NEW  RECIPES. 


FOR  NEW  RECIPES. 


[319] 


PIES. 


ALMOND  MEAL  PIE  CRUST. 

ONE  cup  of   white    flour,    |  cup    of    almond    meal,    ^   cup 
of    cold    water,     and    a    pinch    of    salt.      Mix    the    flour 
and  almond  meal  thoroughly   together,    add  water  and   salt, 
and  knead   but  not    long.      This    is    sufficient    for    one    two- 
crusted  pie. 

COCOANUT  PIE  CRUST. 

One  cup  of  white  flour,  ]  cup  of  cocoanut-oil,  pinch  of  salt, 
and  |  cup  of  cold  water.  Warm  the  cocoanut-oil,  and  thor- 
oughly rub  it  with  the  flour;  then  add  the  water  and  salt,  and 
knead  enough  to  roll  out  well. 

RAW  NUT-BUTTER  PIE  CRUST. 

One  cup  of  white  flour,  2  large  tablespoonfuls  of  raw  nut 
butter,  ^  cup  of  cold  water,  and  salt  to  taste.  Rub  the  but- 
ter with  the  flour,  add  salt  and  water,  and  knead  lightly. 
This  is  enough  for  one  pie  with  two  crusts.  The  roasted 
butter  can  be  used  in  the  same  way,  but  it  makes  a  dark  crust. 

PEANUT  MEAL  PIE  CRUST. 

One  cup  of  white  flour,  £   cup  of  peanut   meal,  i   cup  of 
cold  water,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.      Mix  the  flour  and  nut   meal 
together  thoroughly,  add  water  and  salt,  and   knead,  but   not 
long.     This  is  enough  for  one  two-crusted  pie. 
[320] 


PIES.  321 

NUTCOA  PIE  CRUST. 

Take  i  tablespoonful  of  nutcoa  and  rub  it  well  in  I  cup  of 
white  flour,  then  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Knead 
as  little  as  possible,  and  roll  out  as  soft  as  you  can  handle. 
More  flour  may  have  to  be  added  to  keep  it  from  sticking. 

NUTCOA  TART  PASTE. 

Take  i  cup  of  white  flour,  and  mix  with  it  a  little  salt  and 
about  i  cup  of  nutcoa  and  just  enough  cold  water  to  make  it 
stick  together;  then  roll  out  and  cut  in  any  desired  shape.  A 
nice  paste  for  tarts  can  be  made  from  almond  butter  or  almond 
meal.  If  the  almond  meal  is  used,  use  less  flour;  about  | 
cup  of  flour  to  i  cup  of  almond  meal,  and  a  little  water. 

CHUFA  CREAM  PIE  CRUST. 

Let  the  chufa  milk  set  for  several  hours,  or  overnight 
(see  index  for  Chufa  Milk),  after  which  skim  off  the  cream. 
Take  i  cup  of  the  thin  cream,  i  cup  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Work  as  little 
as  possible.  This  makes  a  sweet,  crisp,  delicious  crust. 

The  chufa  should  be  cultivated  by  every  farmer.  It  is  a 
sweet,  tuberous  nut,  rich  in  fats,  and,  to  my  knowledge,  may 
be  successfully  raised  as  far  north  as  Minnesota.  It  is  quite 
certain  that  they  will  grow  in  Canada.  It  would  be  well  to 
experiment.  (See  article  on  Chufa.) 

PECAN  OR  HICKORY-NUT  PIE  CRUST, 

Grind  the  nuts  to  a  fine  meal.  To  }2  a  cup  of  the  meal, 
i  cup  flour,  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  add  sufficient  water  to  make 
a  dough  which  can  be  rolled.  Work  but  little.  The  crust 


21 


322  GUIDE    FOR    NI'T    COOKERY. 

\vill  be  dark  colored,  on  account  of  the  skins  of  the  nuts  ;  but 
it  will  be  crisp  and  palatable.  Cream  obtained  from  these 
nuts  would  make  a  lighter  crust. 

PINE-NUT  PIE  CRUST. 

Grind  the  pine-nuts  to  a  meal,  in  a  nut-butter  mill.  Take 
i  cup  of  the  meal,  I  cup  of  white  flour,  and  a  pinch  of  salt, 
to  which  add  nearly  |  cup  of  water,  and  roll  out  with  as 
little  kneading  as  possible. 

COCOANUT  CREAM  PIE  CRUST. 

If  too  thick,  add  a  small  quantity  of  water  to  the  cream, 
making,  perhaps,  twice  as  much  as  before  thinning.  Add  a 
pinch  of  salt,  if  desired,  and  enough  flour  to  roll  out  well. 
Knead  as  little  as  possible.  The  result  is  an  excellent  crust, 
with  a  slight  cocoanut  flavor. 

RAW  PEANUT  CREAM  PIE  CRUST. 

Skim  cream  from  peanut  milk  after  it  has  set  overnight. 
If  too  thick,  use  equal  parts  of  water  and  cream,  taking  \ 
cup  of  the  cream,  and  \  cup  of  water,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
enough  flour  to  knead  and  roll  out.  Knead  no  more  than 
necessary.  This  makes  a  good,  tender  crust,  having  no  taste 
of  raw  peanuts.  It  is  enough  for  one  pic  with  two  crusts. 

ALMOND  CREAM  PIE. 

Take  I  pint  of  almond  cream  made  by  dissolving  I  rounding 
tablespoonful  of  almond  butter  in  i  pint  of  water,  adding  but 
a  little  at  a  time.  Add  \  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  and  let 
stand  while  beating  the  whites  of  3  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  ; 


PIES.  323 

add  with  the  cream  and  sugar  and  beat  again  very  thoroughly. 
Flavor  with  vanilla,  or  a  little  grated  nutmeg  may  be  sifted 
on  top  of  the  pie.  Bake  with  one  crust. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Stew  tart  apples  until  soft  and  dry  as  possible,  put 
through  a  colander,  and  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  i  tablespoon- 
ful  of  almond  butter,  ^  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg for  each  pie.  Bake  with  one  crust.  If  a  frosting  is  put 
on  top,  use  less  sugar  in  the  pie. 

ONE  CRUST  APPLE  PIE. 

Select  nice,  ripe  apples  which  are  quite  tart  and  will 
cook  up  white  and  soft.  Cook  with  as  little  water  as  possi- 
ble. When  done,  put  through  a  sieve,  add  ^  cup  of  sugar, 
or  more  if  needed,  and  the  white  of  i  egg.  Beat  to  a 
foam.  Pour  into  a  pie-tin  lined  with  a  very  tender  crust. 
Bake  until  the  crust  is  done,  then  cover  with  the  beaten 
white  of  i  egg,  ^  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  and  \  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla.  Return  to  the  oven  and  brown  slightly. 

DRIED  APPLE  PIE. 

Wash  the  dried  apples  thoroughly,  cover  with  cold  water, 
and  stew  gently  until  tender,  then  put  them  through  a  colan- 
der or  vegetable  press.  Sweeten  to  taste,  add  a  little  grated 
lemon  or  orange  peel,  and  i  well-beaten  egg.  Bake  in  two 
crusts,  and  warm  slightly  before  eating. 

BANANA  PIE. 

Mash  enough  good,  ripe  bananas  to  fill  a  pie  crust,  add 
sugar  and  vanilla  to  taste  ;  or,  if  preferred,  a  very  sour  apple 
grated  fine  may  be  added  to  each  pie  instead  of  the  vanilla. 


3-4  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

Cover  with   a  frosting,  and  bake    in    a    moderate   oven    until 
lightly  brown.      It  should  be  cold  before  serving. 

CORN-STARCH  PIE. 

Take  2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  i  quart  of  raw  pea- 
nut milk  that  has  been  cooked,  i  teaspoonful  of  rose-water 
or  vanilla.  Dissolve  the  corn-starch  in  a  little  of  the  nut 
milk.  Heat  the  rest  of  the  nut  milk,  and  when  boiling,  add 
the  corn-starch  and  flavoring,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  If  de- 
sired, an  egg  can  be  added.  Place  in  a  pie-tin  lined  with  a 
nice  paste,  and  bake  only  long  enough  to  cook  the  crust. 

CRANBERRY  PIE. 

Line  a  pie-tin  with  a  good  paste.  Take  i  quart  of  cran- 
berries, and  put  them  on  the  stove  in  a  granite  stew  basin  with 
a  little  water.  Cook  until  they  pop  open,  then  put  through  a 
sieve,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  pour  into  the  pie-tin.  Put  over 
the  top  strips  of  the  paste  rolled  thin. 

CITRON  PIE. 

Take  a  good  ripe  citron,  cut  in  slices,  remove  the  seeds, 
cut  in  small  pieces,  and  stew  in  a  granite  stew-pan  until  very 
tender.  This  will  take  two  or  three  hours.  They  should  be 
nearly  dry  when  done.  At  the  same  time  have  some  very 
sour  applies  cooking  ;  cook  slowly  so  that  they  will  not  get 
mushy,  drain  off  the  juice,  and  add  the  juice  only  to  the  cit- 
ron ;  sweeten  to  taste,  thicken  with  a  very  little  corn-starch 
or  flour,  and  bake  with  two  crusts.  This  makes  a  very  nice 
pie.  Other  fruit  juices  may  be  used  instead  of  the  apple, 
as  the  cranberry,  raspberry,  strawberry,  etc. 


PIES.  325 


COCOANUT  PIE. 

Shorten  the  crust  with  cocoanut  oil,  and  make  a  filling 
as  follows  :  - 

Take  4  eggs,  \  cup  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  water,  and  salt  to 
taste.  Beat  the  eggs  without  separating,  add  sugar,  milk  of 
the  cocoanut,  and  enough  water  to  make  two  cupfuls,  or 
water  in  which  the  shredded  cocoanut  has  been  boiled  (see 
directions  for  making  cocoanut-oil).  Mix  thoroughly.  Turn 
into  the  crust,  and  bake  like  custard. 

CHERRY  PIE. 

Wash  and  pit  ii  pints  of  cherries.  Mix  with  them  \  cup 
of  chopped  walnuts,  butternuts,  or  any  nut  with  a  tender 
meat.  Place  in  a  pie-tin  lined  with  an  almond  crust.  Sift 
over  it  I  tablespoonful  of  white  flour,  and  cover  with  \  cup  of 
sugar.  Put  a  crust  on  top,  and  bake  very  slowly. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

Filling  for  one  pie.  Take  4  eggs,  i  pint  of  water,  a  little 
salt,  and  \  cup  of  sugar.  Save  the  white  of  one  egg  for  frost- 
ing. Beat  the  rest  without  separating;  add  the  sugar,  salt, 
and  water.  Pour  into  the  crust,  and  bake  slowly,  being  care- 
ful not  to  let  it  whey.  By  using  water  instead  of  milk,  you 
avoid  the  bad  combination  of  sugar  and  milk. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Make  the  same  as  the  above  pie,  and  add  \  cup  of  grated 
chocolate,  or  on  top  of  a  plain  custard  pie  put  a  frosting  of 
chocolate  as  directed.  (See  index.) 


326  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

DATE  AND  LEMON  PIE. 

Take  .\  cup  of  ground  dates,  the  juice  of  i  lemon,  I  table- 
spoonful  corn-starch,  I  tablespoonful  of  flour,  2  cups  of 
water,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cook  the  corn-starch  and  flour  in 
1 1  cups  of  water  for  three  or  four  minutes,  then  dissolve  the 
•  hitrs  in  the  remaining  }2  cup  of  water  and  stir  into  it.  Then 
stir  in  the  lemon-juice  and  salt,  and  cook  in  a  pie-tin  lined 
with  a  tender  crust,  shortened  with  almond  meal,  pine-nut 
meal,  or  raw  peanut  cream. 

EGG  MINCE  PIE. 

Boil  3  eggs  until  hard  ;  when  cold,  remove  from  the  shell, 
and  put  through  a  sieve;  add  to  them  I  cup  of  nut  meal 
(walnut),  a  very  little  salt,  and  sugar  to  suit  the  taste, 

1  cup  of  seedless  raisins  well    looked    over    and    washed,    ^ 
cupful  of  chopped  citron  if  in  its  season,    I    cupful  of  water, 

2  cups  of  chopped  apples,    2  tablespoonfuls  of  zwieola,  and 
a  little  vanilla  or    nutmeg.      Mix  well,    and    bake   with    two 
crusts.      The  juice  and  rind  of  an  orange  improves 

FRESH  FRUIT  PIE. 

Hull  and  wash  well  i  quart  of  fresh  ripe  strawberries,  put 
them  in  a  pie-tin  which  has  been  lined  with  a  crust  made 
of  nutcoa  or  peanut  meal.  Sprinkle  over  the  top  2  level 
tablespoonfuls  of  almonds,  walnuts,  hickory-nuts,  or  peanut 
meal.  Then  sprinkle  over  that  i  tablespoonful  of  white 
flour  and  lastly  |  cup  of  sugar.  Cover  with  a  crust  and 
bake  until  lightly  browned.  Other  berries  and  fruits  can  be 
used  in  the  same  way.  The  nuts  seem  to  take  away  the 
acid  r fleet  of  the  fruit,  and  can  be  eaten  by  those  who 
can  not  eat  acid  fruits  in  any  other  way. 


PIES.  327 

CANNED  FRUIT  PIE. 

Take  some  acid  canned  fruit,  such  as  cherries,  enough 
to  fill  a  pie,  thicken  with  I  heaping  teaspoonful  of  white 
Hour,  add  2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  nut  meal  made  of  al- 
monds, hazlenuts,  walnuts,  or  pecans,  and  sweeten  to 
taste  -  -  about  -?,  cup  of  sugar.  Place  between  crusts  and 
bake. 

GROUND  CHERRY  PIE. 

Take  nice,  ripe  ground-cherries,  husk,  wash,  and  cut  in 
halves  to  see  that  there  are  no  wormy  ones,  and  put  nearly  a 
quart  of  them  in  a  pie  tin  lined  with  a  nut-meal  crust  as  given 
in  another  recipe.  Dust  the  cherries  with  white  flour,  and 
sweeten  with  ^  cup  of  sugar.  Cover  with  crust,  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  until  light  brown. 

MINCE  PIE  WITH  DATES. 

Take  i  cup  of  walnut  meal,  i  cup  of  ground  dates,  2  cups 
of  chopped  apples,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  granola,  |  cup  of  seed- 
less raisins,  ^  teaspoonful  of  caraway  seed,  ^  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla,  j  pound  of  dried  ground  citron  or  ^  cup  of  finely 
chopped,  fresh  citron,  a  very  little  salt,  and  sugar  to  taste. 
Add  a  little  water  if  too  thick. 

MINCE  PIE  FILLING. 

Take  3  cups  of  chopped  apples,  i  cup  of  chopped  citron 
or  I  pound  of  dried  citron  ground  through  the  mill,  i  cup  of 
seeded  and  ground  raisins,  },  cup  of  seedless  raisins  or  English 
currants,  i  cup  coarsely  ground  nuts  (walnuts,  hickory-nuts, 
or  pecans  are  best),  I  cup  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  water,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  white  flour,  4  level  tablespoonfuls  of  zwieola,  a 


3-28  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

little  salt  and  vanilla.  The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon 
may  be  added  if  desired.  Soak  the  seedless  raisins  or  Eng- 
lish currants  in  the  water  for  an  hour  or  two,  then  heat  to 
boiling  and  thicken  with  the  flour.  Then  mix  in  the  ground 
raisins  and  other  ingredients.  The  above  is  sufficient  for  three 
medium-sized  pies. 

NUT  CREAM  PIE. 

Make  the  same  as  any  custard  pie,  using  nut  cream  in 
place  of  ordinary  milk;  flavor  with  lemon.  Always  use  lightly 
browned  nuts  for  cream,  or  use  the  raw  peanut  milk. 

MRS.  B'S  PIE  CRUST. 

For  i  covered  pie  and  I  open  pie,  take  2  cups  of  flour, 
\  cup  of  nut  butter;  rub  into  it  very  thoroughly  a  little  salt, 
and  about  \  cup  of  ice-water.  After  tossing  together  lightly, 
press  crumbs  together  and  roll  out  without  kneading. 

ORANGE  PIE. 

Dissolve  i  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  in  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water,  stir  it  into  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  and 
cook  until  clear,  stirring  to  keep  it  from  getting  lumpy.  Add 
i  cup  of  sour  orange  juice,  and  a  little  of  the  grated  rind  with 
sugar  to  taste.  When  cool,  stir  in  the  well-beaten  yolks  of 
two  eggs.  Bake  with  under  crust,  and  cover  with  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  and  i  tablespoonful  of  sugar  beaten  very  stiff,  and 
lightly  browned  in  the  oven. 

PEACH  PIE. 

Take  fresh,  ripe  peaches,  cut  in  halves,  and  remove  the 
pits.  Line  a  pic  tin  with  a  nut  crust,  and  place  the  fruit  in  it 
with  the  inside  of  the  peach  up.  One  layer  is  sufficient. 


PIES.  329 

Pour  over  this  a  custard  made  of  2  eggs,  I  cup  of  nut  milk, 
and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake 
slowly  until  the  custard  sets,  but  not  until  it  is  watery. 
Canned  peaches  that  are  not  mushy  will  do  as  well,  but  the 
juice  should  be  drained  off. 

PRUNE  PIE. 

Stew  the  prunes  until  perfectly  tender,  remove  the  pits,  and 
put  through  a  colander,  add  a  very  little  sugar,  about  I  table- 
spoonful  to  a  pie;  add  also  I  well-beaten  egg  and  |  teaspoon- 
ful  of  vanilla.  Bake  with  one  crust.  Cover  with  a  frosting 
made  of  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  2  level 
tablespoonfuls  of  fine  granulated  sugar,  with  a  little  vanilla. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. 

Pare  and  cut  the  pumpkin  into  small  pieces.  Cook  slowly 
in  about  one  fourth  as  much  water  as  pumpkin  for  six  hours. 
When  it  has  cooked  four  hours,  add  1  cup  of  molasses  to  three 
quarts  of  raw  pumpkin.  When  done,  put  through  a  sieve. 
For  one  large  pie,  take  2\  cups  of  sifted  pumpkin,  I  pint  of 
water,  i  cup  of  sugar,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  2  eggs. 
Bake  three  fourths  of  an  hour. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE. 

Take  I  grated  pineapple,  i  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  almond 
cream,  and  4  eggs.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar, 
adding  a  little  of  the  sugar  at  a  time;  then  add  the  pineapple 
and  cream,  and  lastly  fold  in  carefully  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs.  Bake  with  one  crust  only.  If  desired,  the  eggs 
may  be  omitted,  and  ^  cup  more  of  almond  cream  and  2  level 
tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch  used  instead. 


330  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

POTATO  PIE  NO.  J. 

Make  the  same  as  a  pumpkin  pie.  Cook  and  mash  the 
potatoes,  put  in  i  egg  to  a  pie,  thin  with  nut  milk  and  sweeten 
and  flavor  to  taste. 

POTATO  PIE  NO.  2. 

Pare  and  grate  i  large  white  potato  into  a  deep  dish,  add 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  cranberry  juice  or  other  sour  fruit-juice,  or 
if  preferred,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  i  lemon.  Then 
add  the  white  of  i  egg  well  beaten,  |  cup  of  sugar,  and  i  cup 
of  cold  water.  Pour  into  a  pie  plate  lined  with  a  nut  crust, 
and  bake.  When  done,  have  ready  the  whites  of  2  eggs  well 
beaten  with  )  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Pour  this  over  the  pie 
and  return  to  the  oven  until  of  a  light-brown  color. 

SQUASH  PIE. 

Take  i  cup  of  sifted  squash,  and  add  2  cups  of  nut  milk 
made  from  the  raw  peanut  and  cooked  for  one  hour  in  a 
double  boiler  before  using.  The  milk  may  also  be  made  by 
dissolving  i  tablespoonful  of  raw  peanut  butter  in  i  quart  of 
water  and  cooking  in  a  double  boiler  for  one  hour.  Then  add 
I  egg,  I  cup  of  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste.  This  is  enough  for 
one  pie.  Bake  with  one  crust. 

CHESTNUT  PIE. 

Take  i  cup  of  sifted  stewed  chestnuts,  2  cups  of  peanut 
milk,  i  egg,  1  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Make  the  milk  by  dissolving  i  tablespoonful  of  raw  pea- 
nut butter  in  i  quart  of  water  and  cooking  it  in  a  double 
boiler  for  one  hour.  Beat  the  egg,  add  the  other  ingredients, 
and  bake  with  one  crust. 


PIES.  331 

The  milk  may  also  be  made  as  directed  for  raw  peanut 
milk.  But  it  should  be  cooked  or  it  will  taste  of  raw 
peanuts. 

SUMMER  SQUASH  PIE. 

Cook  a  summer  squash  until  tender,  then  put  through  a 
sieve  or  colander,  add  sugar,  salt,  vanilla,  and  a  little  corn- 
starch  to  thicken  it.  Pour  into  a  pie-tin  lined  with  nice,  ten- 
der paste,  and  bake  until  the  crust  is  done. 

TOMATO  PIE. 

Pare  and  slice  nice,  ripe  tomatoes  (not  too  ripe)  enough  to 
fill  a  pie  plate  lined  with  a  crust  as  previously  directed.  Sift 
over  the  tomatoes  about  2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  white  flour 
so  it  will  not  be  too  juicy,  and  on  top  of  the  flour,  sprinkle 
^  cup  of  sugar  ;  more  sugar  may  be  needed  if  the  tomatoes 
are  very  sour.  Cover  with  crust,  and  bake  only  until  crust 
is  done. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PIE. 

Select  good,  large  green  tomatoes,  just  before  they  begin 
to  ripen,  scald,  to  remove  the  skins,  and  slice  into  small 
pieces.  Put  into  a  pie-tin  lined  with  a  rather  thick  paste,  and 
sprinkle  over  them  |  cup  of  granulated  sugar.  Cover  with  a 
thick  crust,  and  bake  slowly  for  one  hour.  Season  with  nut- 
meg and  lemon  rind. 

WHORTLEBERRY  OR  HUCKLEBERRY  PIE. 

Line  a  pie-tin  with  a  nice  paste.  Look  over  and  wash 
the  huckleberries  and  put  in  nearly  I  quart.  Sprinkle  over 
the  berries,  2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  white  flour,  then  sift 
over  that  .',  cup  of  sugar.  Place  over  all  a  top  crust,  and 
bake  slowly. 


332  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

WATERMELON  PIE. 

Cut  the  watermelon  in  two  parts,  remove  the  central  or 
red  part,  then  after  removing  the  outside  skin,  and  all  the 
red  part  of  the  melon,  cut  in  very  small  pieces,  and  cook  in 
plenty  of  water  until  very  tender  ;  add  the  juice  and  a  little 
of  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  sugar  to  taste,  and  a  little 
vanilla.  If  desired,  use  I  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  for  each 
pie.  Rub  the  starch  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water  before 
adding.  Cook  until  the  starch  has  time  to  thicken,  then 
place  in  a  pie-tin  lined  with  a  nut  paste.  Bake  with  two 
crusts. 

ZWIEBACK  PIE. 

Take  i  cup  of  grated  white  zwieback,  i  cup  of  tart  apples 
chopped  fine,  ^  cup  of  malt  extract,  j  cup  of  sugar,  j  cup  of 
almond  meal,  salt,  vanilla,  and  nutmeg  to  suit  the  taste. 
Bake  with  two  crusts. 

TARTS  (BOW  KNOTS). 

Cut  thin,  puff  paste,  and  form  into  a  double  bow-knot. 
Bake,  and  place  jelly  on  the  bows  and  loops. 


PUDDINGS. 


TJ)UDDINGS,  if  made  with  dairy  milk  and  sugar  combined, 
1  are  apt  to  ferment  in  weak  stomachs.  They  are  much 
better  prepared  without  dairy  milk. 

CUSTARD  NO.   J. 

Take  2  cups  of  raw-peanut  milk,  A  cup  of  sugar.  Cook 
three  fourths  of  an  hour  in  a  double  boiler.  Have  ready  2 
\vell-beaten  eggs.  Pour  upon  them  the  cooked  milk,  beating 
very  rapidly.  Add  I  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract.  Turn  all 
into  an  agate  basin,  and  bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

CUSTARD  NO.  2. 

Take  2  cups  water,  4  eggs,  \  cup  of  sugar,  i  pinch  of  salt, 
beat  the  eggs  without  separating.  Add  the  sugar,  salt,  and 
water,  and  bake  slowly,  or  steam,  being  careful  not  to  cook 
too  long,  or  it  will  be  watery. 

PRUNE  PUDDING. 

Look  over  i  pound  of  prunes,  discarding  all  poor  ones, 
and  \vash  very  thoroughly  in  hot  water,  then  cover  with  luke- 
warm water  and  soak  overnight.  In  the  morning,  put  on 
the  back  part  of  the  stove,  and  simmer  for  three  or  four  hours, 
or  until  very  tender,  in  the  same  water  in  which  they  were 
soaked.  There  should  not  be  much  juice  when  done.  Drain, 

I  333  ] 


334  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

remove  the  stones,  and  chop.  Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs  very 
stiff,  adding  i  cup  of  sugar,  gradually  beating  all  the  time. 
Stir  in  chopped  prunes,  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Serve 
cold  with  cream  sauce  or  almond  cream. 

QUEEN  PUDDING. 

Take  I  pint  of  bread-crumbs,  |  quart  of  nut  milk  or  hot 
water,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  the  whites  of  i,  beaten.  Fla- 
vor with  vanilla  or  rose,  and  bake  until  done.  Whip  the 
whites  of  3  eggs  stiff,  beating  in  ^  cup  of  sugar,  adding  a 
little  at  a  time.  Spread  on  the  pudding  a  layer  of  jelly  or 
jam.  Spread  the  whites  of  the  eggs  over  this,  and  place  in 
the  oven  until  slightly  browned.  Serve  cold,  or  cool. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Take    i  \   cups   of   Indian    meal,   i  cup  of   malt,  2  quarts  of 
milk  (nut),  2  eggs,   i  tablespoonful   of  salt. 

Scald  i  quart  of  the  milk  and  pour  over  the  meal,  then 
stir  in  the  malt  and  cold  milk,  and  lastly  the  salt  and  eggs. 
Steam  five  hours,  and  serve  with  cream  or  a  sauce. 


POOR  MAN'S  RICE  PUDDING. 

Take  i  quart  of  nut  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  ^  cup 
of  seedless  or  seeded  raisins.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  ^ 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  or  any  flavoring  you  may  desire. 
Mix  and  bake  from  i  to  i.\  hours,  stirring  frequently.  Do 
not  let  the  pudding  brown  until  it  has  thickened  sufficiently. 
Cool  before  serving.  Raw  peanut  milk  is  very  good  in  this 
pudding.  Milk  made  from  other  nuts  is  also  good,  the  almond 
being  the  best. 


PUDDINGS.  335 

COCOANUT  PUDDING  NO.  \. 

Take  the  milk  of  the  cocoanut  and  enough  water  to  make 
i£  quarts.  Grind  the  cocoanut  through  the  nut  mill.  Add 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  ground  cocoanut  to  the  water,  and 
simmer  or  cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  twenty  minutes,  until 
the  flavor  and  oil  are  given  off  in  the  water,  then  strain.  To 
the  flavored  water  add  i  \  cups  of  boiled  rice,  i  cup  of  seeded 
raisins  or  seedless  ones,  \  cup  of  sugar,  and  3  well-beaten 
eggs.  Turn  into  a  pudding  dish,  put  into  a  pan  of  hot  water, 
and  bake  until  the  custard  sets.  Serve  either  warm  or  cold. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING  NO.  2. 

Take  2  cups  of  white  zwieback  pulverized,  f  cup  of 
ground  cocoanut,  .\  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  3  eggs,  i  \  pints  of 
water,  \  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  i  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  the 
eggs  very  light,  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  again.  Add  the 
other  ingredients,  and  stir  until  smooth.  Bake  in  an  oiled 
pudding  dish  three  fourths  of  an  hour. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING  NO.  1. 

Soak  \  cup  of  tapioca  in  i  cup  of  cold  water  for  two 
hours,  then  add  i  cup  more  of  water  and  boil  until  the  tapi- 
oca melts.  When  done,  it  should  be  quite  thick.  Add  a 
well-beaten  egg  and  sugar  and  flavoring  to  taste.  Turn  into 
a  pudding  dish,  and  cook  gently  for  one-half  hour.  Part  nut 
milk  may  be  used  instead  of  the  water. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING  NO.  2. 

Put  i  cup  of  tapioca  and  i  teaspoonful  of  salt  into  i.^ 
pints  of  warm  water,  and  let  soak  for  two  hours.  Then  cook 
in  a  double  boiler  until  transparent.  A  little  sugar  may  be 


336  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

added  if  desired.  Have  ready  6  tart  apples.  Pare,  and  re- 
move the  core  without  breaking  the  apple,  and  fill  the  holes 
with  sugar.  Flavor  with  orange  peel.  Place  in  a  pudding 
dish,  add  a  very  little  water,  cover,  and  let  bake  until  tender, 
but  not  mushy.  Then  carefully  remove  to  individual  glass 
dishes  (the  dishes  should  be  warmed  to  prevent  them  from 
breaking) ;  pour  over  the  apple  a  portion  of  the  cooked  tapi- 
oca. Serve  just  warm. 

GREEN  CORN  PUDDING. 

Take  \  pint  sweet  corn,  cut  from  the  ear,  or  canned  corn 
will  do,  2  eggs,  i  pint  of  almond  milk,  and  a  little  salt. 
Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  milk,  salt,  and  corn,  and  steam  one 
hour. 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

Take  |  cup  of  toasted  bread-crumbs,  \  cup  of  sugar,  I 
quart  of  water  or  nut  milk,  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs, 
and  i  whole  egg.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  flavor  with  salt  and 
vanilla.  Pour  into  an  oiled  pudding  dish  ;  set  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water,  and  bake  until  the  custard  is  well  set.  Remove 
from  the  oven,  and  cool.  Then  cover  with  i.|  cups  of  prune 
marmalade.  Cover  the  whole  with  a  meringue  made  of  the 
whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  with  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Brown  in  the  oven.  Very  nice. 

MOTHER'S  PUDDING. 

Take  i  cup  of  chopped  seedless  raisins,  2  cups  of  chopped 
tart  apples.  Mix  together,  and  fill  a  granite  basin  with  alter- 
nate layers  of  the  fruit  and  bread-crumbs,  having  the  bread- 
crumbs on  the  top.  Do  not  use  more  bread-crumbs  than 
fruit.  Moisten  the  whole  with  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice 


PUDDINGS  337 

in  a  cupful  of  cold  water.  Let  stand  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
then  add  enough  more  water  to  thoroughly  saturate.  Place 
in  a  larger  basin  of  hot  water,  and  bake  until  the  apples  are 
perfectly  tender. 

STEAMED  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Take  2  cups  of  grated  bread,  A  cup  seeded  raisins,  i  cup 
of  chopped  apples,  j  cup  of  sugar,  and  3  eggs. 

Mix  the  bread-crumbs,  raisins,  apples,  and  sugar  thor- 
oughly together,  and  add  the  eggs  well  beaten.  A  little 
grated  nutmeg  may  be  added  if  desired. 

FIG  PUDDING. 

Take  5  eggs,  ^  cup  of  ground  figs,  2  cups  of  bread-crumbs, 
|  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  coarsely  ground  nuts,  and  i  cup 
chopped  citron  or  j  pound  dried  citron  ground  through  the 
mill.  Add  \  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  salt  to  taste.  Beat 
the  eggs  without  separating,  and  mix  with  the  other  ingredi- 
ents. Put  in  a  pudding  dish,  and  steam  four  hours. 

APPLE  DUMPLING, 

Make  the  dough  the  same  as  for  roly-poly  given  on 
next  page.  Pare  as  many  tart  apples  as  you  want  dump- 
lings. Take  out  the  core  with  a  sharp  knife;  or  a  new 
clothes-pin  may  be  used,  by  taking  hold  of  the  spreading  part 
of  the  pin,  and  pressing  it  in  at  the  blow  end  of  the  apple; 
then  whirl  it  around  a  few  times,  and  the  core  will  come  out 
nicely,  and  leave  the  apple  whole.  Fill  the  hole  with  sugar. 
Roll  out  the  dough  about  one-half  inch  thick,  or  thicker  if  you 
desire,  take  enough  to  cover  the  apple,  and  pinch  together. 
When  all  the  apples  are  covered,  let  it  rise  until  it  is  light,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


22 


33^  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

APPLE  ROLY-POLY. 

Make  a  raised  biscuit  dough  as  follows:  ;\  cake  of  com- 
pressed yeast  or  ]  cup  of  hoim'-madr  yeast,  i  cup  of  nut 
milk.  Let  rise  until  very  light,  then  add  the  following:  ]  cup 
of  sugar,  i  cup  of  nut  meal,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out  two  thirds  of  an  inch  thick. 
Have  ready  2  cups  of  chopped  apples,  \  cup  of  raisins,  and  i 
tablespoonful  of  walnut  meal.  Mix,  and  spread  on  the  dough; 
then  beginning  at  one  end,  roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll  cake. 
Press  edges  well  together  to  keep  the  juice  in.  Set  where 
it  will  rise,  and  when  light,  steam  for  one  hour  or  more. 

CARROT  PUDDING  NO.  J. 

Take  i  cup  of  cooked  carrots  rubbed  through  a  colander, 
i  cup  of  nut  milk  made  by  dissolving  i  teaspoonful  of  nut  but- 
ter in  a  cup  of  water,  i  cup  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  and  i  well- 
beaten  egg.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Mix  thoroughly  together, 
and  bake  like  custard. 

CARROT  PUDDING  NO.  2. 

Take  i  cup  of  grated  carrots,  |  cup  of  coarsely  ground 
nuts  (walnuts,  hickory-nuts,  or  pecans),  i  cup  of  seeded 
raisins,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  4  teaspoonfuls  of  flour. 
Salt  and  flavor  to  taste.  Steam  four  hours.  Place  in  the 
oven,  and  serve  hot  with  fruit  sauce. 

LEMON  PUDDING. 

Take  },  cup  of  coarsely  ground  nuts  (walnuts  or  hickory- 
nuts  are  best),  i  lemon,  i  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  flour,  3  eggs, 
i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  pint  of  bread-crumbs.  Mix  bread- 
crumbs, nuts,  flour,  and  sugar  well  together,  and  some  of  the 


PUDDINGS.  339 

grated  rind  of  the  lemon  and  strained  juice.  Moisten  this 
mixture  with  eggs  and  sufficient  water  to  make  a  thick  batter. 
Put  into  an  oiled  pudding  dish,  and  steam  three  hours. 

This  recipe  is  not  good  for  weak  stomachs,  as  the  lemon 
hinders  the  digestion  of  starch,  and  is  apt  to  cause  it  to  fer- 
ment in  the  stomach. 

ESCALLOPED  APPLES. 

Oil  a  pudding  dish,  and  put  a  layer  of  peeled,  sliced  apples 
in  the  bottom.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  flour  and  a  very  little 
nut  meal.  Fill  the  dish  in  this  manner,  and  bake  one  hour, 
covering  the  dish  to  prevent  burning  on  the  top.  Serve  cold 
or  hot. 

FLOATING  ISLAND. 

Make  a  custard  of  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  2  whole  eggs, 
^  of  a  quart  of  water,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  sugar  to  taste. 
Cook  just  enough  to  let  the  custard  set,  but  not  to  get  watery. 
Pour  into  a  large  dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  flavoring  with  sugar  and  vanilla.  Take  a  spoonful  at 
a  time,  and  place  in  gently  boiling  water;  leave  a  minute  and 
turn  over,  leave  another  minute  and  take  out,  placing  on  top 
of  the  custard.  Serve  as  cold  as  possible. 

APPLE  FOAM. 

Peel  and  grate  i  large  sour  apple,  sprinkling  over  it  a 
small  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  as  you  grate  it,  to  keep  it 
from  turning  dark.  Break  into  this  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
and  beat  it  all  constantly  for  one-half  hour.  Take  care  to 
have  it  in  a  large  bowl,  as  it  beats  up  very  light  and  stiff. 
Heap  this  in  a  glass  dish,  pour  a  fine,  smooth  custard  around 
it,  and  serve. 


34O  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

CRANBERRY  TAPIOCA. 

Take  3  cups  of  cranberry  juice,  the  juice  of  i  orange,  \ 
cup  "minute  "  tapioca,  or  sago,  and  j  cup  sugar  ;  boil  gently 
for  fifteen  minutes  ;  serve  with  nut  cream. 

TAPIOCA  AND  NUTS. 

Soak  i  cup  of  tapioca  in  i  pint  of  water,  add  i  quart  of 
boiling  water,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  clear;  then 
stir  in  i  cup  of  seedless  raisins  and  i  cup  chopped  almonds 
and  cook  one  hour  or  longer.  Some  use  stoned  or  even 
whole  raisins,  and  others  a  mixture  of  raisins  and  currants. 
This  can  be  molded,  and  used  cold  with  nut  meal  sprinkled 
over  it,  or  with  a  nut  gravy. 

FAIRY  PUDDING. 

Select  good  tart  apples  that  will  cook  quickly,  put  them 
in  a  bowl  or  pudding  dish,  and  place  in  the  oven  to  heat. 
\Yhile  it  is  heating,  make  a  puff  paste  by  mixing  i  cup  of 
flour,  i  cup  of  nut  milk,  i  egg  well  beaten,  and  a  little  salt. 

Beat  the  flour  and  salt  into  the  milk,  then  add  the  well- 
beaten  egg  by  folding  it  in,  and  pour  this  over  the  apples, 
which  should  be  sprinkled  with  a  little  sugar  before  pouring 
on  the  batter.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

SURPRISE  PUDDING. 

Cut  one-half  inch  slices  of  white  bread  with  a  cooky  cutter, 
and  pour  over  the  pieces  cranberry  juice,  or  any  other  fruit 
juice  which  will  color  them  pink  or  red;  place  two  together 
on  a  saucer,  and  cover  with  a  hot  sauce  made  with  i  pint  of 
cocoanut  milk  thickened  with  i  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch, 
and  sweetened  to  taste.  Stir  until  it  thickens,  and  let  cook 


PUDDINGS. 


341 


for  about  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  then  pour  this  hot  over  the 
pink  rounds  of  bread,  and  serve  at  once.  The  white  sauce 
covers  up  the  pink,  and  gives  a  pleasant  surprise  to  the  eater. 

SURPRISE  DESSERT. 

Take    slices  of   white    bread    and    cut   out   some    stars  of 
medium    size.      Spread    them    with  dates,    which    have   been 


. 


" 


SURPKISF.    DF.SSERT. 


ground,  and  stirred  to  a  paste  with  water.  When  spread, 
put  two  of  the  stars  together.  If  desired,  the  bread  may  be 
spread  with  nut  butter  before  putting  on  the  dates.  Put  on 
the  top  of  each  a  little  pyramid  of  jelly  cut  by  turning  a  tea- 
spoon in  the  jelly.  The  accompanying  figure  will  help  to  get 
the  correct  idea.  This  dessert  is  to  be  served  in  individual 
dishes  with  nut  cream;  cocoanut  cream  is  very  nice  with  this 
dessert. 


FOR  NEW   RECIPES. 


f  342  ] 


FOR  NEW  RECIPES. 


[343] 


SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS. 


ALMOND  CREAM  SAUCE. 

TAKE   i   cup  of  almond  cream,  A   cup  of  powdered  sugar. 
Cream  together,  and  just  before  serving,  add  vanilla,  and 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  white  currant  juice  or  white  grape  juice, 
or  if  desired,  the  juice  of  I  lemon. 

ALMOND  SAUCE. 

Take  i  cup  of  almond  milk,  and  when  boiling,  thicken 
with  i  teaspoonful  of  white  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little 
cold  water.  Add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  then  stir  in  |  cup 
of  almond  meal,  or  almonds  blanched  and  dried  in  the  oven 
until  crisp  and  then  chopped,  and  lastly  add  the  well-beaten 
white  of  an  egg,  folding  it  in.  Remove  from  the  stove  at 
once.  Other  nuts  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

APPLE  SAUCE. 

Select  good  tart  apples  that  have  a  white  flesh;  peel  and 
-rate,  adding  a  little  sugar  while  grating  to  keep  them  from 
turning  dark.  To  i  grated  apple  add  the  white  of  i  egg  and 
i  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Beat  for  twenty  or  twenty-five 
minutes,  and  then  place  on  top  of  a  dish  of  pudding.  This  is 
especially  nice  for  cold  puddings,  but  the  sauce  should  not  be 
made  until  needed 
I  344  1 


SAUCES    FOK    1'UDDINGS.  345 

BAKED  APPLE  SAUCE. 

Quarter  and  core  good  tart  apples,  put  them  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  water  in  a  pudding  dish,  and  place  in  the  oven. 
Bake  until  the}'  are  all  of  a  mush,  then  beat  with  a  silver  or 
wooden  spoon  until  they  are  foamy.  Add  sugar  and  a  little 
peanut  cream  to  suit  the  taste. 

BANANA  FOAM. 

Take  2  large  ripe  bananas  or  3  small  ones,  and  mash  with 
a  fork.  Add  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  ^  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
and  beat  with  an  egg  beater  for  from  fifteen  to  twenty  min- 
utes, or  until  it  is  very  stiff.  The  colder  the  eggs  and  bana- 
nas are,  the  quicker  it  will  get  stiff.  Serve  at  once.  This  is 
excellent  on  grains,  toast,  or  desserts,  or  as  a  food  for  the 
sick,  as  it  is  nutritious  and  very  easily  digested. 

BOILED  SAUCE. 

Melt  |  pint  of  sugar  in  a  very  little  water.  Let  it  boil, 
and  then  add  ^  cup  of  water,  or  ^  cup  of  fruit  juice.  When 
hot,  pour  this  over  the  well-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  beating 
all  the  time  to  get  it  smooth  and  evenly  cooked.  A  little 
rose-water  or  vanilla  may  be  added,  if  desired.  When  fruit 
juice  is  used,  this  makes  a  very  nice  filling  for  a  layer-cake, 
and  is  also  excellent  on  steamed  puddings. 

COCOANUT  SAUCE. 

Take  i  cup  of  cocoanut  cream  as  directed  (see  index); 
thicken  it  with  i  teaspoonful  of  white  flour,  add  I  tablespoon- 
ful of  sugar,  and  if  desired,  the  beaten  yolk  of  i  egg. 


346  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

Stew  i  quart  of  dark  cranberries  in  enough  water  to  cover 
them.  \Yhen  they  have  burst,  put  them  through  a  colander 
or  sieve,  add  I  pound,  which  is  2\  cups,  of  sugar.  Let  boil  a 
few  minutes,  and  then  it  is  ready  to  serve.  This  is  an  excel- 
lent sauce  for  nearly  all  kinds  of  puddings. 

FIG  SAUCE. 

Take  good  figs,  remove  the  stems,  wash  in  warm  water, 
and  grind  in  the  family  nut-butter  mill.  If  adjusted  closely, 
it  will  grind  the  seeds  to  a  flour.  It  is  not  necessary  to  cut 
the  figs  in  pieces,  as  they  can  be  pressed  in  with  the  fingers 
without  it.  When  ground,  thin  with  hot  water  to  the  con- 
sistency of  gravy,  and  if  desired,  it  can  be  flavored  with  nut 
butter. 

FRUIT  JUICE  SAUCE. 

Take  A  cup  of  nut  butter,  i  cup  of  sugar,  i  tablespoonful 
of  corn-starch,  i  cup  of  cold  water,  and  ^  cup  of  fruit  juice. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  and  stir  in  the  corn- 
starch  wet  in  the  water.  Cook  until  thick,  and  then  add  the 
fruit  juice.  The  water  may  be  omitted,  and  i  cup  of  the 
juice  used  if  desired,  unless  it  is  quite  acid  fruit.  The  juice 
of  grapes,  strawberries,  cranberries,  raspberries,  etc.,  may 
be  used. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

Take  f  cup  of  sugar,  J  cup  of  nut  butter,  i  egg,  the  juice 
and  a  little  of  the  grated  rind  of  i  lemon,  i  teaspoonful  of 
nutmeg,  and  .\  cup  of  boiling  water.  Put  into  a  double  boiler, 
and  heat  until  very  hot  but  not  boiling.  Stir  constantly. 


SAUCES    FOR    PUDDINGS.  347 


LEMON  SYRUP. 

Select  good,  solid,  heavy  lemons,  as  the  soft,  spongy  ones 
contain  but  little  juice  ;  wash  and  wipe  them  dry.  Roll  on  a 
plate  or  platter  until  the  oil  starts,  then  rub  with  sugar  (gran- 
ulated is  the  best)  until  all  the  oil  is  taken  up  by  the  sugar. 
Squeeze  out  the  juice,  and  strain  it  through  a  cloth  to  remove 
all  the  seeds  and  white  particles,  as  they  will  make  it  bit- 
ter. Allow  about  i  i  pounds  of  sugar  to  i  pint  of  juice, 
using  the  sugar  in  which  the  lemons  were  rubbed.  Let  it 
boil  gently  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  and  strain  if  it  is 
not  clear.  Reheat,  bottle,  seal  tight,  and  put  in  a  cool  place. 
Lemon  syrup,  sealed  in  this  way,  will  keep  for  any  length  of 
time,  and  is  always  ready  for  use;  it  is  nice  for  flavoring  pud- 
dings, sauces,  cakes,  and  pies. 

ORANGE  SYRUP. 

Select  good,  fresh  oranges,  wash  and  wipe  them  well,  and 
roll  them  on  a  platter  until  the  oil  starts  from  the  pores,  then 
take  i  pound  of  sugar,  a  little  in  each  hand,  and  rub  the 
oranges  until  all  the  oil  is  out,  changing  the  sugar  as  is 
needed,  and  do  this  with  all  the  oranges  you  wish  to  make 
into  syrup  in  the  same  way.  Then  squeeze  out  all  the  juice, 
strain  it,  put  in  the  pound  of  sugar  saturated  with  the  oil, 
which  will  be  enough  for  i  pint  of  the  syrup.  Put  on  the 
back  of  the  stove,  and  simmer  gently  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes.  Then  if  it  is  not  perfectly  clear,  strain  through  a 
cloth.  Reheat,  and  put  it  in  bottles;  cork,  and  seal  tight. 
This  syrup  is  very  nice  to  flavor  puddings  and  pies,  and  can 
be  made  when  oranges  are  cheap,  and  then  can  be  kept  the 
year  round. 


348  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  SAUCE. 

Take  I  cup  of  maple  sugar  and  i  cup  of  water  ;  place  on 
the  stove,  and  let  simmer  for  one-half  hour,  removing  all  the 
scum.  Add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  walnut  meal  or  any  nut  meal 
desired.  Add  i  teaspoonful  of  Hour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little 
cold  water  and  \  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  or  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg may  be  used  if  preferred. 

NUT  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Take  \  cup  of  molasses,  ,\  cup  of  water  or  nut  milk,  and  i 
tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice.  Thicken  with  Hour,  and  flavor 
with  nutmeg  or  vanilla. 

ORANGE  SAUCE. 

Take  the  juice  of  2  oranges,  and  enough  water  to  make 
i  \  cups  of  liquid.  Put  in  the  inner  part  of  a  double  boiler, 
and  when  boiling  stir  in  i  heaping  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch 
rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water,  place  in  the  outer  cup 
of  the  double  boiler,  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Meanwhile 
beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  until  stiff  and  dry,  and  pour  the  hot 
sauce  over  them,  beating  constantly  to  keep  it  smooth;  then 
pour  back  into  the  double  boiler  and  return  to  the  stove,  stir- 
ring constantly  until  it  is  creamy  and  the  egg  is  set.  Then 
serve  hot  on  steamed  or  baked  pudding. 

PLAIN  SAUCE. 

Take  :]  cup  of  nut  butter,  i£  cups  of  sugar.  Rub 
together.  Add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  and  just  before  serving, 
add  enough  boiling  water  to  make  a  thick  cream. 


SAUCES    FOR    PUDDINGS.  349 

PLAIN  NUT  SAUCE. 

Take  ^  cup  of  nut  butter,  either  almond  or  peanut,  2 
well-beaten  eggs,  and  enough  boiling  water  to  make  a  thick 
cream.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  and  serve  at  once. 


PINEAPPLE  SAUCE. 

Grate  a  pineapple,  add  a  little  water,  and  let  simmer 
until  tender,  then  add  i  cup  of  sugar,  if  it  is  a  large  pine- 
apple, but  less  if  a  small  one.  Let  boil  for  five  minutes,  and 
serve.  If  desired,  thicken  with  a  little  corn-starch. 

STRAWBERRY  SAUCE. 

Take  i  pint  of  mashed  strawberries,  i  large  tablespoonful 
of  nut  butter  (almond  butter  preferred),  i  .\  cups  powdered 
sugar,  and  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg.  Take  a  little  of  the 
strawberry  juice  and  mix  with  the  butter  until  it  is  like  thick 
cream.  Now  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  very  lightly;  add  the 
egg,  and  just  before  serving,  add  the  mashed  strawberries. 

STRAWBERRY  FOAM. 

Take  i  pint  of  nice,  ripe  strawberries  that  are  perfectly 
fresh;  hull,  wash,  and  drain  until  dry;  then  add  the  whites  of 
2  eggs,  A  cup  of  sugar,  and  beat  with  an  egg  beater  until  very 
stiff,  or  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes.  Serve  at  once. 


FILLINGS. 


ALMOND  FILLING. 

BLANCH  \  pound  of  almonds  by  putting  on  boiling  water 
and  leaving  them  for  two  or  three  minutes;  then  pour  off 
the  water,  and  rub  off  the  skins.  Place  in  a  warm  oven  to  dry, 
and  when  thoroughly  dry  i  if  not  well  dried,  they  do  not  grind 
well),  leave  out  j  cup,  and  grind  or  pound  the  remainder 
to  a  paste  in  a  mortar.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to 
a  crumbly  stiffness.  Add  i  teaspoonful  of  rose-water  and 
^  pound  of  powdered  sugar.  Fold  all  together.  Spread 
in  a  thin  layer  on  the  top  of  each  layer  of  cake;  take  the 
almonds  that  were  left  out,  slice  them  crosswise  quite  fine, 
and  cover  the  top.  A  sprinkling  of  red  sugar  sand  adds  to 
the  beauty  of  the  cake;  other  colors  may  be  used  if  desired. 

APPLE  SNOW  FILLING. 

Grate  2  nice,  ripe  apples  which  have  a  white  flesh,  sprin- 
kling on  a  little  sugar  as  yon  grate,  to  prevent  their  turning 
dark  (pulverized  sugar  is  best  |.  Add  to  the  apples  the  whites 
of  2  eggs,  and  beat,  adding  i  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  a  little 
at  a  time.  Beat  continuously  for  twenty  minutes  or  more, 
and  spread  between  the  layers. 

CRANBERRY  FILLING. 

Cook  some  good,  dark-red  cranberries  in  as  little  water  as 
possible;  when   done,  put   through   a   sieve.      Add  2   cups  of 
pulverized  sugar,  and  2  whites  of  eggs,  and  beat  for  twenty  or 
[35o] 


FILLINGS.  351 

twenty-five  minutes;   then  use   at   once.  Other  fruit    may  be 

used  in  the  same    way.      These    cakes  should  be  eaten  the 
same  day  that  they  are  baked. 


CORN-STARCH  FILLING. 

Take  i  cup  of  nut  milk,  i  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch,  i 
egg  beaten  to  a  cream,  i  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  ^  pound  of 
powdered  sugar,  and  i  teaspoonful  of  rose-water.  Put  a  little 
of  the  cold  milk  on  the  starch,  and  the  rest  of  the  milk  on 
the  stove  ;  when  boiling,  add  the  well-beaten  eggs  and  sugar, 
.and  stir  it  constantly  until  the  custard  sets,  but  be  careful  that 
it  does  not  curdle.  Remove  it  from  the  fire  ;  add  the  flavor- 
ing, and  set  away  to  cool  ;  then  spread  on  the  cake. 

CHOCOLATE   CREAM  FILLING. 

Make  a  filling  like  the  above,  and  when  done,  add  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate  which  has  been  dissolved 
by  placing  in  a  basin  over  the  tea-kettle,  or  in  some  warm 
place.  Set  away  to  cool  before  using. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING  NO.  J. 

Take  i|  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  ^  cup  of 
boiling  water,  and  A  pound  of  sweet  vanilla  chocolate.  Stir 
all  together  until  it  makes  a  smooth  cream,  to  be  spread 
between  any  nice  layer  cake. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING  NO.  2. 

Take  the  whites  of  3  eggs  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  12 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  i  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate.  Set  the  sugar  and  choco- 


352  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

late  in  a  warm  place  where  they  will  melt.  Add  the  vanilla, 
and  beat  in  the  well-beaten  whites,  use  at  once  or  place  on 
ice  until  needed. 

FIG  FILLING. 

Take  i  pound  of  figs  ;  grind  them  through  a  nut-butter 
mill,  and  add  to  them  a  little  nut  cream.  Work  until  a 
smooth  paste  is  formed,  and  spread  between  the  layers  of 
the  cake  when  the  cake  is  cool. 

LEMON  FILLING. 

Take  ^  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  !  cup  of  white  flour,  and  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  i  lemon.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites 
separately,  add  the  sugar  to  the  yolks  and  a  little  salt,  adding 
the  lemon-juice  to  the  whites.  Then  take  \  cup  of  boiling 
water,  and  thicken  it  with  the  white  flour  until  it  is  a  nice 
gravy  ;  then  fold  in  the  beaten  yolks  and  whites,  and  use  at 
once. 

PEANUT  FILLING  NO.  J. 

Make  a  peanut  gravy  by  dissolving  a  tablespoonful  of  pea- 
nut butter  in  i  pint  of  boiling  water.  When  boiling,  add 
enough  corn-starch  (about  i  tablespoonful)  to  make  of  the 
right  consistency,  a  very  little  salt,  and  sugar  to  taste  ;  add  ^ 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Spread  between  the  layers  ;  use  the 
peanut  frosting  on  top,  and  decorate  with  a  few  peanuts  split 
in  halves,  roasted  to  a  light  brown. 

PEANUT  FILLING  NO.  2. 

Take  i  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  and  2  cups  of  water  in 
which  has  been  dissolved  i  tablespoonful  of  peanut  butter; 
place  on  the  stove,  and  boil  until  it  thickens,  when  a  little  is 


FILLINGS.  353 

placed  on  a  cold  dish.  Then  pour  while  hot  over  the  whites 
of  2  eggs  which  have  previously  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
beating  continuously  while  pouring  it  on,  that  the  egg  may  be 
cooked  evenly  and  smooth.  When  partly  cool,  spread  it  on 
the  layers  of  cake,  putting  it  on  the  top  'also.  Leave 
it  in  a  cool  place  to  dry  for  several  hours  before  using. 
This  is  very  nice,  and  the  cake  keeps  well. 

PEACH  FILLING. 

Take  i  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  ^  cup  of  flour,  I  quart  of 
sifted  peaches,  and  i  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Beat  the  eggs 
\\x-ll,  add  the  sugar,  then  the  hot  peaches  which  have  been 
sifted  through  a  sieve.  Thicken  with  the  flour  rubbed  smooth 
in  a  little  cold  \vater,  add  vanilla,  and  let  cook  gently  for  four 
or  five  minutes  ;  then  spread  on  the  layers.  This  is  better 
eaten  the  same  day. 

WALNUT  FILLING. 

Take  i  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  and  ^  cup  of  water,  and 
boil  together  until  stiff  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Take  the 
whites  of  two  eggs,  beat  them  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  turn 
the  boiling  sugar  slowly  over  the  beaten  whites,  continuing 
the  beating  all  the  time  until  it  is  smooth  and  creamy.  Take 
|  of  a  cup  of  thin  cream,  and  mix  with  it  i  cup  of  chopped 
walnuts.  Spread  this  between  the  layers.  Spread  the  other 
third  on  the  top,  and  before  it  dries,  press  into  it  whole  halves 
of  walnut  kernels.  Other  nuts  may  be  used  instead  of 
walnuts. 


CAKES. 


and  pies  which  are  filled  with  animal  fats,  irritating 

spices,  and  are  raised  with  baking-powder  or  soda,  are 
certainly  very  unwholesome;  to  use  them  in  our  bill  of  fare 
could  work  nothing  but  injury  to  all  who  partake. 

Animals  are  becoming  so  diseased  that  it  is  no  longer  safe 
to  use  their  flesh  as  food,  and  even  if  they  were  not  diseased, 
free  fats  are  hard  of  digestion.  Neither  the  saliva  nor  the 
gastric  juice  digests  fats;  therefore  if  particles  of  food  are 
covered  with  free  fat,  the  gastric  juice  can  not  digest  them, 
and  they  remain  in  the  stomach  undigested. 

In  weak  stomachs,  fermentation  will  set  in,  and  a  sour 
stomach  and  sometimes  headache  will  be  the  result.  Nut 
butter,  nut  meal,  etc.,  are  not  free  fats,  as  they  can  be 
readily  dissolved  in  water,  forming  an  emulsion  or  cream, 
while  free  fats  will  float  on  top  of  the  water  and  not  mix. 

The  spices  so  commonly  used  in  cakes  and  pies  are  not 
foods,  and  only  act  as  irritants  in  the  stomach.  The  soda  and 
baking-powder,  generally  used  in  cake  baking,  are  very 
injurious.  Soda  is  alkaline  in  its  nature.  The  gastric  juice 
is  acid.  If  too  much  soda  is  used  for  the  sour  milk  or  cream 
of  tartar,  the  effect  will  be  to  sweeten  the  gastric  juice,  and 
destroy  its  digestive  properties.  Baking-powder  which  is 
mixed  with  the  proper  proportion  of  alkali  and  acid  elements, 
is  not  so  apt  to  have  that  effect,  but  all  baking-powders  are 
more  or  less  adulterated  with  alum  and  other  elements  which 
are  very  injurious  to  the  stomach. 
[354] 


CAKES.  355 

"  Saleratus  in  any  form  should  not  be  introduced  into  the 
stomach,  for  the  effect  is  fearful.  It  eats  the  coatings  of  the 
stomach,  causes  inflammation,  and  frequently  poisons  the 
whole  system." 

Spices  and  condiments,  which  usually  enter  into  cake  ma- 
king, are  equally  injurious.  The  effect  that  they  have  upon 
the  stomach  can  be  illustrated  by  putting  them  upon  a  raw 
surface  or  in  the  eye  ;  inflammation  immediately  takes  place. 
They  irritate  the  nerves,  cause  irritability  and  peevishness, 
and  create  a  craving  for  something  more  highly  spiced,  which 
often  leads  to  grosser  forms  of  intemperance. 

Cakes,  as  usually  made,  with  large  quantities  of  free  fats 
and  sugar,  clog  the  system,  and  make  a  bad  quality  of  blood  ; 
they  also  have  a  bad  effect  upon  the  kidneys.  To  dispose  of 
this  kind  of  food  brings  a  heavy  tax  upon  the  whole  system. 

The  object  of  the  author  is  to  place  before  the  public  a 
few  recipes  for  light,  appetizing,  and  beautiful  cakes  and 
pies,  without  the  use  of  animal  fat,  milk,  butter,  cream, 
soda,  baking-powder,  or  spices.  Not  that  they  should  be 
recommended  as  an  every-day  diet,  or  to  take  the  place  of 
simple  foods,  but  as  an  occasional  luxury,  and  as  a  substitute 
for  more  injurious  pastry. 

In  order  to  make  nice,  light  cakes  without  soda  or  baking- 
powder,  more  pains  must  be  taken,  and  the  recipes  carefully 
followed.  All  material  must  be  ready  to  add,  the  flour  and 
sugar  sifted,  the  eggs  broken  and  separated,  if  they  are  to  be 
beaten  separately,  the  seasoning  and  shortening  all  ready  to 
put  in,  and  the  cake  tins  and  oven  ready.  Then  much  de- 
pends upon  the  beating  of  the  eggs.  The  cakes  are  raised  by 
the  expansion  of  the  air  bubbles  that  are  beaten  into  the  eggs  ; 
it  is  therefore  necessary  that  as  much  air  as  possible  be  beaten 
in  and  retained.  After  adding  the  whites  and  yolks,  they  should 
not  be  beaten  or  stirred,  \a\ti.  folded  in,  and  especially  after  the 


356  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

{lour  is  added,  they  should  be  worked  as  little  as  possible  or 
the  cake  will  be  tough  and  heavy.  A  great  deal  depends 
upon  the  baking  ;  if  the  oven  is  too  hot,  the  cake  will  crust 
over  before  it  has  time  to  rise  ;  if  it  is  too  cool,  the  air  will 
escape  before  the  heat  is  sufficient  to  expand  it,  and  in  either 
case  it  causes  a  failure.  A  moderate  and  even  temperature  is 
what  is  needed.  The  cooling  also  has  something  to  do  with 
its  being  a  success.  Sometimes  they  look  nice  and  light  when 
removed  from  the  oven,  and  then  begin  to  fall.  The  best  rem- 
rdy  for  this  is  to  bake  in  the  Misses  Lisk's  baking  tins.  They 
do  not  need  oiling  ;  when  the  cake  is  done,  turn  it  bottom  side 
up  on  the  legs  of  the  tin  until  it  is  cold.  If  these  tins  can  not 
be  had,  bake  in  a  common  bake  tin,  lined  with  oiled  paper. 
When  done,  cover  the  top  with  a  paper  or  napkin  to  prevent 
its  cooling  too  fast. 

The  flour  for  cake  making  should  be  granular  ground ; 
spring  wheat  is  the  best,  although  all  kinds  can  be  used,  but 
will  not  be  so  light.  Gluten  can  be  used  instead  of  flour,  but 
requires  only  two  thirds  as  much. 

Granulated  sugar  is  the  best  for  cake  making,  and  should 
be  of  fine  granules.  The  coarse  granulated  sugar  ivill  not 
make  a  light  cake. 

None  need  fear  that  they  will  not  succeed,  for  persever- 
ance will  win  the  race.  If  the  first  cake  is  not  so  very  light, 
the  next  one  will  be  better  ;  for  experience  will  help  to  make 
it  faster,  and  rapidity  is  the  most  essential  thing  in  making 
unleavened  cakes. 

ALMOND  CAKE. 

Take  \  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  \  pound  of  seedless  rai- 
sins, 4  eggs,  \  pound  of  rice  flour,  6  ounces  of  flour,  i  cup  of 
almond  meal.  Mix  meal  and  sifted  sugar  together,  beat  the 
yolks  and  whites  separately  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  fold  them 


CAKES.  357 

together,  and  fold  in  the  meal  and  sugar.  The  raisins  should 
be  well  washed  and  powdered  with  flour,  and  lastly  fold  in 
the  flour.  Have  ready  the  following  icing:  i  cup  of  sifted 
powdered  sugar,  2  whites  of  eggs,  |  pound  of  almond  but- 
ter. Oil  a  bake  tin,  and  put  in  a  layer  of  the  cake  dough, 
then  spread  with  a  thin  layer  of  the  icing,  and  so  on,  having 
the  cake  on  top.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

COCOANUT  CAKE  NO.   J. 

Take  5  eggs,  i  cup  of  almond  meal,  i  cup  of  sugar,  salt 
to  taste,  i  tablespoonful  of  water,  i  cup  of  granular  white 
flour  (Pillsbury's  Best).  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  sepa- 
rately. To  the  beaten  yolks  add  the  sugar  a  little  at  a  time, 
continually  beating.  Then  add  the  salt  to  the  whites,  and 
beat  until  quite  stiff,  then  add  the  water,  and  beat  until  it  has 
a  cooked  appearance.  Turn  the  whites  into  the  yolk  mix- 
ture, and  fold  in  lightly,  so  as  to  not  get  the  air  out  of  the 
whites.  Then  fold  in  the  nut  meal  in  the  same  way  as  the 
whites  of  the  eggs;  lastly  fold  in  the  sifted  flour.  Work  as 
little  as  possible  after  the  nuts  and  flour  are  added,  as  it  will 
make  it  heavy  and  tough.  Bake  on  jelly  tins,  and  when  cool, 
use  for  a  filling  a  cocoanut  sauce  as  directed  (see  index). 
Sprinkle  dessicated  cocoanut  on  top. 

COCOANUT  CAKE  NO.  2. 

Take  ^  pound  of  grated  cocoanut,  |  pound  of  granulated 
sugar,  ^  pound  of  flour,  5  eggs,  i  tablespoonful  of  nutcoa,  i 
pint  of  water,  and  i  teaspoonful  of  flavoring  if  desired.  Add 
the  sugar  slowly  to  the  eggs,  beating  as  you  mix,  then  add  the 
nutcoa  and  the  other  ingredients,  leaving  out  about  i  cup  of 
the  grated  cocoanut.  Put  in  an  oiled  pie-tin,  and  bake. 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

\Yhen  about  half  thickened,  sprinkle  over  the  top  the  cup  of 
cocoanut,  and  brown  well.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it 
was  baked. 

COCOANUT  COOKIES. 

Make  like  nutcoa  cookies,  only  add  2  heaping  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  dessicated  cocoanut. 

COCOANUT  WAFERS. 

Take  I },  pounds  of  flour,  i  pound  of  coarsely  ground  dessi- 
cated cocoanut,  i  pound  of  sugar,  3  eggs  beaten  separately, 
i  teaspoonful  of  rose-water,  and  i  gill  of  water.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  add  the  sugar,  then  the  cocoanut,  water, 
and  then  the  whites  which  have  been  stiffly  beaten  with  the 
salt  and  rose  flavor,  and  lastly  add  the  flour.  Let  it  stand  for 
'half  an  hour  in  a  cool  place,  then  roll  one  fourth  of  an  inch 
thick.  Cut  out  in  any  shape  desired,  and  bake. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

To  ^  cup  of  shaved  chocolate  add  i  tablespoonful  of  hot 
water,  and  put  in  a  warm  place  until  melted.  Add  to  it  the 
yolks  of  5  eggs,  and  beat  stiff.  Add  i  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
and  beat  again,  then  add  i  cup  of  walnut  meal,  and  i  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon-juice.  Then  fold  in  i  cup  of  sifted  flour 
and  lastly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  5  eggs.  Line  a  tin  with 
oiled  paper,  pour  in  the  cake  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
thirty-five  to  forty-five  minutes. 

COCOANUT  CREAM  PASTE. 

Warm  in  a  saucepan  i  cup  of  water  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  and  let  boil  until  the  sugar  is  well  dissolved. 


CAKES.  359 

Set  on  the  corner  of  the  range,  and  add  |  pound  of  white 
flour,  beating  with  a  spoon  for  five  minutes  until  you  obtain 
quite  a  thick  batter.  Add  two  or  three  eggs  one  by  one,  also 
the  grated  cocoanut,  and  i  tablespoonful  of  cocoanut  oil  with 
the  flavoring.  Use  this  paste  for  cocoanut  cream  cake. 

COCOANUT  CREAM  CAKE. 

Grated  cocoanut  2  cups,  cocoanut  cream  paste,  I  pound, 
and  sugar  3  tablespoonfuls.  Drop  a  spoonful  of  cream  paste 
(recipe  above)  on  an  oiled  pie-tin.  Sprinkle  with  granulated 
sugar,  gently  letting  off  the  excess  of  sugar;  then  sprinkle 
about  ^  teaspoonful  of  grated  cocoanut  on  each  cake,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  well  colored. 


FAMILY  CAKE. 

Take  ^  pound  of  rice,  ^  pound  of  flour,  12  eggs,  |  pound 
of  sugar,  and  i  ounce  of  caraway  seed.  Beat  the  eggs  one- 
half  hour,  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  bake  one  hour. 
This  is  a  very  nice  cake. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

Take  i  pound,  or  i|  cups,  of  sugar,  12  eggs  beaten  sepa- 
rately, i  pound,  or  2\  cups,  of  white  flour,  i  gill  of  nut  cream, 
i  pound  of  filberts  ground  to  a  meal,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
minced  celery,  \  nutmeg  grated,  i  \  pounds  of  seeded  raisins 
chopped,  i  pound  of  chopped  fresh  citron,  or  \  pound  ground 
dried  citron,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites 
separately,  then  put  them  together,  and  add  the  other  ingre- 
dients, Put  in  pans  lined  with  oiled  paper,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  one  hour. 


$OO  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


FRUIT  CAKE  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Take  2  cups  of  grated  white  zwieback,  i  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  i  cup  of  walnut  meal  (butternuts  or  hickory- 
nuts  may  be  used  if  desired),  i  cup  of  seedless  raisins,  \  cup 
of  chopped  citron,  \  cup  of  white  flour,  \  of  a  nutmeg,  i 
tablespoonful  of  minced  celery,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  the 
bread-crumbs,  sugar,  and  Hour  together,  and  add  to  them 
enough  nut  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Beat  well  for  five 
minutes,  then  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  for  one  hour. 

HONEY  CAKE. 

Take  i  pint  of  honey,  i  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  nut  meal, 
I  teaspoonful  of  ground  caraway  seed,  and  enough  flour  to 
knead  well.  ^fix  all  together  well,  and  add  enough  flour  to 
knead.  \Yhen  smooth,  roll  out  quite  thick.  Score  on  the 
top,  and  bake  in  a  sheet  on  an  oiled  tin. 

HONEY  CAKE  WITH  EGGS. 

Take  i  pint  of  strained  honey,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
i  A  cups  of  nut  meal,  }2  teaspoonful  of  caraway  seed,  i  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon-juice,  and  6  eggs.  First  beat  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  until  thick,  then  add  the  honey,  a  little  at  a  time, 
and  beat  again  very  thoroughly.  Add  the  caraway  seed, 
which  should  be  ground  fine.  Then  add  the  salt  to  the 
whites,  and  beat  until  frothy  ;  add  the  lemon-juice,  and  beat 
until  white  and  crumbly  ;  then  fold  in  the  yolk  mixture,  the 
nut  meal,  and  flour.  Put  in  the  bake  tins  as  soon  as  possi- 
ble. Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  an  inserted  straw  or 
knitting-needle  will  come  out  clean.  Then  turn  bottom  side 


CAKES.  361 

up  on  something  so  as  to  let  the  air  circulate  around  the  cake. 
The  tins  should  not  be  oiled,  or  the  cake  will  fall  out  when 
inverted. 

GOLD  CAKE. 

Take  ^  pound  of  sugar,  |  cup  of  fine  almond  meal,  the 
yolks  of  8  eggs,  i  pound  of  flour,  juice  of  i  lemon,  and  i 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  rose-water.  Beat  the  yolks  one-half 
hour,  adding  the  lemon-juice  a  little  at  a  time,  then  add  the 
sugar,  and  beat  in  the  almond  meal,  and  lastly  fold  in  the 
flour.  Bake  at  once  in  a  moderate  oven. 

LEMON  CAKE. 

Take  3  eggs,  i  scant  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  flour,  i  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon-juice,  i  tablespoonful  of  ice-water,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Beat  yolks  to  a  cream,  add  sugar,  beat  up 
again  to  a  stiff  cream,  then  add  them  to  the  whites  (previ- 
ously beaten  stiff)  by  pouring  over  gently,  dipping  down  the 
sidet  of  the  bowl  and  up  through  the  center  with  as  few 
strokes  as  possible.  To  avoid  toughening,  sift  over  it  half 
the  flour,  folding  it  in,  and  add  the  remainder.  Bake  in 
unoiled  tins,  two  layers,  twenty  minutes.  Filling  :  - 

White  of  i  egg,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  i  lemon,  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  essence,  and  thicken  with  confectioners' 
sugar.  Or  use  the  following  :  - 

Take  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  con- 
fectioners' sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  nut  butter.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, and  beat  to  a  creamy  consistency. 

LADY  BISCUITS. 

Sift  \  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  add  |  cup  of  water,  place 
in  the  saucepan  on  the  stove,  then  add  the  yolks  of  9  eggs, 
and  beat  until  it  is  warm;  then  remove  from  the  stove,  and 


302  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

beat  for  ten  minutes,  or  until  it  is  cold.  Whip  the  whites 
with  a  pinch  of  salt  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  then  fold  them  with 
the  other  mixture,  and  lightly  fold  in  10  ounces  of  white 
flour.  A  little  vanilla  may  be  added  to  the  whites  while 
beating.  Bake  in  well-oiled  gem  irons,  sifting  powdered 
sugar  over  the  top,  or  a  little  colored  sugar  may  be  used. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

MALT  CAKE. 

Take  I  cup  of  malt,  i  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  nut 
meal,  |  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  i^  cups  of  gluten  or  zwieback, 
i  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice  with  a  little  of  the  grated  rind, 
and  4  eggs.  Separate  the  eggs,  and  beat  the  yolks  until  stiff; 
then  add  the  grated  lemon  rind  and  the  malt  a  little  at  a 
time,  beating  it  vigorously.  Then  pour  it  into  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  which  should  be  beaten  to  a  very  stiff  froth.  The 
best  way  is  to  add  the  salt  to  the  whites,  and  beat  until 
frothy,  but  not  stiff  or  white,  then  add  the  lemon-juice  and 
beat  until  it  is  very  fine,  stiff,  and  crumbly.  Now  fold  the 
whites  and  yolks  together,  fold  in  the  nut  meal,  and  lastly 
the  gluten  or  bread-crumbs  as  lightly  and  quickly  as  possible. 
Bake  in  the  Misses  Lisk's  bake  tins  if  possible;  if  not,  bake  in 
a  common  cake  tin  without  oiling,  and  when  done,  turn  bot- 
tom side  up  across  another  tin  that  is  right  side  up,  so  that  the 
air  can  circulate  under  the  cake.  By  turning  bottom  side 
up,  it  will  prevent  it  from  falling  while  cooling.  To  prepare 
bread-crumbs,  let  some  white,  light,  bread  dry  until  is  it  per- 
fectly dry  clear  through.  The  larger  the  pieces  of  bread  are, 
the  easier  it  is  to  get  hold  of  it  to  grate.  Then  sift  through 
a  sieve  to  remove  the  coarser  particles.  They  can  be  rolled 
on  a  bread  board  and  sifted  again.  When  there  is  danger  of 
their  being  heavy,  use  the  bread-crumbs  instead  of  flour 


CAKES.  363 

in  cakes,  as  the  bread-crumbs  will  help  them  to  be  light. 
Gluten  has  the  same  effect.  This  cake  should  be  baked  in  a 
moderate  oven  and  watched  carefully,  as  it  burns  very  easily. 
When  the  oven  can  be  easily  regulated,  have  it  hot  for  the 
first  ten  minutes,  then  cooler  the  rest  of  the  time.  Do  not 
open  the  oven  for  ten  minutes  after  the  cake  has  been  put  in. 

MARBLE  CAKE. 

Make  the  light  part  of  the  cake  like  snow  cake,  only  add 
i  cup  of  almond  meal.  Make  the  dark  part  by  beating  the 
9  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  the  juice  of  i  lemon 
while  beating,  then  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  again.  Add  i  cup 
of  walnut  meal,  a  little  salt,  i  teaspoonful  of  caraway  seed 
ground  fine,  i  teaspoonful  of  caramel  made  by  scorching 
brown  sugar,  this  will  give  it  a  nice,  dark  color.  Put  into 
cake  tins  by  dropping  a  tablespoonful  of  the  light  mixture 
and  one  of  the  dark  until  all  is  in.  Bake  as  other  cakes. 

MERINGUES. 

Take  i  pound  of  sugar,  i  pound  of  almond  meal,  the 
yolks  of  6  eggs  whipped  to  a  cream,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  rose- 
water,  and  i  pound  of  sifted  flour.  Beat  the  eggs  separately, 
and  add  the  sugar  and  rose-water  to  the  yolks,  then  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  almond  meal,  and  the  flour.  Roll 
out  about  one-half  inch  thick,  and  cut  in  round  cakes.  Place 
on  oiled  tins  one  inch  apart,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

NUTMEATO  CAKE. 

Take  \  cup  of  grated  nutmeato,  ^  cup  of  finely  grated 
bread-crumbs,  \  cup  of  small,  seedless  raisins  or  English  cur- 
rants, i  cup  of  fine  granulated  sugar,  the  juice  of  i  lemon  with 


364  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

a  little  of  the  grated  rind,  \  cup  of  peanut  cream,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  4  eggs,  and  a  little  nutmeg  if  desired.  Mix  the  bread- 
crumbs with  the  nutosia  and  the  grated  lemon  peel,  beat 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  stiff,  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  again, 
then  add  the  nut  cream.  Beat  the  whites  two  minutes  in  a 
separate  dish.  Add  salt  and  lemon-juice,  and  beat  until 
very  stiff  and  crumbly.  Pour  in  the  yolk  mixture  and  fold 
in  carefully;  then  fold  in  the  mixture  of  bread-crumbs  and 
nutosia  and  the  raisins  dried  and  rolled  in  flour.  Bake  in 
well-oiled  gem  irons  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

COCOANUT  OIL  CAKE. 

Stir  together  until  very  creamy  and  light  i  pound,  or  2\ 
cups,  of  sugar,  and  \  pound,  or  \  cup,  of  cocoanut  oil.1  Sepa- 
rate the  whites  and  yolks  of  8  eggs,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the 
whites,  and  beat  until  thick,  but  not  too  stiff,  then  add  I 
tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice,  and  beat  until  it  is  very  stiff  and 
has  a  cooked  appearance;  place  on  the  ice  while  beating  the 
yolks;  beat  the  yolks  until  stiff,  and  add  one  half  the  grated 
rind  of  i  lemon,  then  pour  the  yolk  mixture  with  the  beaten 
whites.  Fold  in  carefully  but  quickly,  dipping  the  spoon  in  at 
the  edge  of  the  dish  and  bringing  it  up  through  the  middle. 
Beating  or  stirring  causes  the  air  which  you  have  beaten  into 
the  eggs  to  escape.  Then  fold  in  lightly  i  pound  of  flour, 
sifting  on  about  one  fifth  of  it  at  a  time.  Work  as  little  as 
possible  after  adding  the  flour  or  it  will  not  be  so  good.  The 
secret  of  making  nice  cake  without  baking-powder  is  in  hav- 
ing all  the  material  ready  before  beginning  the  cake,  and  in 
the  rapidity  with  which  it  is  put  together. 


l  Recipes  for  making  nut  oils  can  be  found  on  p.  82,  No.   i. 


CAKES.  365 

COCOANUT  OIL  COOKIES. 

Take  f  cup  of  cocoanut  oil,  i  cup  of  sugar,  and  3  eggs 
beaten  together  to  a  cream.  Use  just  enough  flour  to  mix, 
and  roll  thin. 

NUT  CAKE. 

Take  5  eggs,  I  cup  of  fine,  granulated  sugar,  |  cup  of 
gluten  No.  3  or  I  cup  of  granular  white  flour,  I  cup  of 
coarsely  ground  nuts  (walnuts,  hickory-nuts,  pecans,  hazel- 
nuts,  or  almonds,  or  peanut  meal),  i  tablespoonful  of  cold 
water,  i  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  A  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Have  all  things  in  readiness.  Separate  the  eggs,  and  beat 
the  yolks  until  they  are  thick,  then  add  the  sugar  a  little  at  a 
time,  beating  all  the  time  until  it  is  very  stiff.  Add  the  salt  to 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  beat  until  thick  but  not  very  stiff. 
Add  the  water  and  the  vanilla,  and  beat  until  it  has  a  cooked 
appearance.  Then  fold  the  yolk  mixture  into  the  whites,  put 
in  the  nuts  and  fold  gently  but  quickly  in,  and  lastly  fold  in  the 
flour  gently  but  quickly,  and  just  enough  to  have  it  even.  Too 
much  working  after  the  flour  and  nuts  are  added  makes  it 
tough  and  lets  the  air  out.  (The  Misses  Lisk's  cake  tins  are 
the  best.  Do  not  oil  them.)  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
forty-five  minutes  and  turn  the  tins  top  side  down  to  cool. 

NUT  CUP  CAKE. 

Take  |  cup  of  nut  cream  made  by  dissolving  i  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  nut  butter  in  £  cup  of  cold  water,  |  cup  of  fine 
granulated  sugar,  |  cup  of  granular  flour  (spring  wheat  is 
best),  i  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  sifted  with  the  flour,  2 
eggs,  and  salt  and  flavor  to  taste. 

Put  together  the  same  as  gems  or  puffs.  Have  all  the 
material  ready  before  commencing  to  put  the  cake  together. 


366  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

First,  oil  the  gem  irons  and  put  them  on  the  stove  to  warm. 
Now  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  sugar,  salt,  and  flavoring 
tcigvtlK-r  until  they  are  all  of  a  foam,  then  take  the  hand  and 
add  the  flour,  slowly  beating  all  the  time  to  incorporate  as 
much  air  as  possible.  When  the  flour  is  all  in,  add  lastly  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  which  have  previously  been  beaten  very 
stiff.  It  is  best  to  beat  the  whites  first  and  place  in  an  ice-chest 
or  in  a  cool  place,  while  you  make  the  rest  of  the  cake.  Fold 
or  stir  the  whites  in  just  enough  to  have  it  well  mixed.  Fill  the 
gem  irons,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

NUT  AND  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Work  together  until  smooth  and  creamy  A  pound  (i\ 
cups)  of  sugar,  and  i  tablespoonful  of  nutcoa.  Add  5  eggs, 
the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately;  i  pound  of  almond 
meal,  ^  pound  of  stoned  raisins,  or  seedless,  \  pound  of  finely 
chopped  citron,  fresh  if  you  have  it,  if  not,  use  \  pound  of  the 
dried  citron  ground  through  a  mill,  a  little  grated  orange  peel 
or  a  little  nutmeg.  Fold  well  together,  but  do  not  stir  or 
beat  it,  and  bake  in  the  Misses  Lisk's  cake  tins  in  a  rather 
slow  oven.  When  done,  remove  from  the  oven  and  turn 
bottom  side  up  on  the  legs. 

RAISED  CAKE. 

Take  i  pound  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  peanut  oil,  i  pint  of 
peanut  milk,  i  pint  of  warm  water,  flour  as  required,  i  cup 
of  liquid  yeast,  A  pound  of  raisins,  i  teaspoonful  of  caraway, 
.\-  nutmeg  grated,  and  i  spoonful  of  vanilla.  Cream  the  oil 
and  sugar  together,  add  the  water  and  milk  and  enough  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  dough,  add  the  yeast  and  set  overnight  to 
rise  ;  in  the  morning  add  the  fruit  well  washed  and  dredged 


CAKES.  367 

with  flour  ;  then  add  the  salt  and  flavoring.  Put  in  oiled 
baking  tin's  and  let  rise.  Bake  forty-five  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

RICE  CAKE. 

Take  10  ounces  of  ground  rice,  3  ounces  of  white  flour,  8 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  sifted,  8  eggs,  and  I  teaspoonful 
of  rose-water.  Sift  the  flour,  sugar,  and  rice  together  into 
the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  add  the  rose-water  and  a 
pinch  of  salt  to  the  whites,  beat  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  and 
fold  it  into  the  rest.  Bake  the  cake  in  a  deep  pan  lined  with 
an  oiled  paper.  If  the  oven  is  the  right  temperature,  the 
cake  will  bake  in  twenty  minutes. 

RICE  CUP  CAKE. 

Take  4  eggs,  separate  the  whites  and  yolks,  and  beat  the 
yolks  ten  minutes  ;  then  add  I  cup  of  sugar  and  beat  again. 
Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  I  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice  to  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  and  beat  until  crumbly  ;  then  fold  with 
the  yolk  mixture  ;  also  fold  in  1  cup  of  ground  rice  and  i  cup 
of  white  flour  sifted.  Bake  in  gem  irons  or  patty  pans.  A 
little  ground  caraway  may  be  used  if  desired. 

RAW  PEANUT  CREAM  CAKE. 

Take  I  cup  of  sugar,  4  eggs,  i  cup  of  white  flour,  |  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  I  small  lemon,  and  a  little  salt.  Add  the 
salt  to  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  beat  until  they  are  frothy  ; 
then  add  ^  of  the  lemon-juice,  and  beat  until  it  is  very  dry 
and  has  a  cooked  appearance.  Set  them  in  a  cool  room  while 
beating  the  yolks.  Add  the  remaining  ^  of  the  lemon-juice 
to  the  yolks,  and  beat  until  stiff,  then  add  the  sugar  and  beat 
again.  Add  the  raw  peanut  cream  and  beat  very  thoroughly, 


368  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

adding  the  vanilla.  Then  fold  the  white  and  yolk  mixture 
together,  dipping  the  spoon  down  at  the  edge  of  the  dish  and 
bringing  it  up  through  the  middle  ;  then  add  the  flour,  sifting 
on  half  at  a  time  and  folding  it  in  carefully.  Work  as  little 
as  possible,  and  bake  in  tins  that  are  not  oiled,  in  a  very 
moderate  oven  for  one  and  one-fourth  hours.  Try  with  a 
knitting  needle,  and  when  done,  turn  bottom  side  up  on  an- 
other tin  so  as  to  let  the  air  circulate  under  the  cake.  The 
object  in  turning  it  bottom  side  up  is  to  keep  it  from  falling 
after  it  is  removed  from  the  oven. 

SEA  FOAM  CAKE. 

Mix  together  I  .\  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  i  cup  of  granu- 
lar white  flour  sifted  three  or  four  times.  Then  beat  the 
whites  of  8  eggs  for  two  minutes.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  I 
tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice,  and  beat  until  very  stiff  and 
crumbly,  then  fold  in  carefully,  but  quickly,  the  flour  and 
sugar  mixture,  sifting  in  about  one  fourth  of  it  at  a  time. 
Bake  the  same  as  snow  cake. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Take  4  eggs,  |  cup  of  sugar,  i  tablespoonful  of  water,  ^ 
spoonful  of  vanilla  or  rose-water,  and  i  cup  of  white  flour. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  until  very  stiff,  then  add  the  sugar 
a  little  at  a  time  until  all  is  in,  then  add  the  water  and  flavor- 
ing and  beat  again.  Add  a  little  salt  to  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  beat  until  they  have  a  cooked  appearance,  and  then 
fold  them  into  the  yolk  mixture.  Do  not  stir,  as  that  will 
let  the  air  out,  but  put  the  spoon  down  at  the  edge  of  the 
dish  and  bring  it  up  though  the  middle.  Sift  the  flour  over 
it  a  little  at  a  time,  and  fold  in  the  same  way,  working  as 
little  as  possible;  for  too  much  working  will  make  it  tough. 


CAKES.  369 

It  should  be  thick  and  spongy  when  ready  to  put  in  the 
tins.  If  it  is  liquid,  it  is  not  a  perfect  success.  The  secret 
of  making  good  unleavened  cakes  is  in  having  everything  ready 
before  beginning  to  make  the  cake,  and  also  in  the  rapidity 
with  which  it  is  put  together. 

SNOW  CAKE. 

Have  all  material  and  dishes  ready  before  beginning  the 
cake,  and  have  the  oven  of  the  right  temperature.  Take  the 
whites  of  9  fresh,  cold  eggs  and  beat  a  few  minutes,  then  add 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  I  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice,  and  beat 
until  it  is  very  stiff  and  crumbly;  then  beat  in  i  cup  of  very 
fine  granulated  sugar,  adding  a  little  at  a  time,  and  lastly 
add  i  cup  of  white  flour  which  has  been  sifted  three  or  four 
times  before  measuring,  adding  a  little  at  a  time,  and  folding 
it  in  very  carefully.  Bake  in  Misses  Lisk's  baking  tins  with- 
out oiling,  or  in  common  baking  tins  lined  with  an  oiled 
paper,  being  careful  not  to  jar  the  tins,  or  the  cake  will  fall. 

SWEATMEET  ROLLS. 

Roll  out  a  strip  of  tart  paste  about  one  eighth  of  an  inch 
in  thickness.  Spread  it  with  jam  or  ground  fruits,  such  as 
raisins,  dates,  or  figs.  Roll  it  up,  and  pinch  the  ends  up 
tight  to  keep  the,  sweetmeats  in;  glaze  with  the  white  of  an 
egg.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

WATERMELON  CAKE. 

White   part:   Take   the   whites  of  8  eggs,  add  a  pinch  of 
salt   and  i    tablespoonful  of   lemon-juice,  and   beat  to  a  stiff 
froth.      Add  the  sugar,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  continue  beat- 
ing; then  add  the  flour,    and  fold  in  carefully. 
24 


376  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

Pink  part:  Make  this  part  like  the  white  with  the  excep- 
tion of  adding  i  tablespoonful  of  extracted  beet  juice  instead 
of  the  lemon,  and  *  cup  of  almond  meal  before  adding  the 
flour.  Lastly  stir  in  a  few  dark,  seedless  raisins  as  an  imi- 
tation of  seeds.  Put  the  white  part  on  the  bottom  and 
sides,  then  pour  the  pink  in  the  center  and  put  some  of  the 
white  on  top.  When  done,  cover  with  green  icing  as 
directed  below. 

Coloring  Green.--  Look  over,  wash,  and  drain  well,  any 
quantity  of  spinach,  and  pound  in  a  mortar  to  a  pulp,  wring 
it  through  a  strong  muslin  cloth  as  dry  as  possible;  pound  the 
pulp  again,  wring  it  once  more,  and  then  cook  the  juice  in  a 
double  boiler  until  it  thickens  like  jelly.  Then  rub  it  through 
a  fine  sieve  upon  an  oiled  paper,  and  let  it  dry  until  it  is  a 
thick  paste;  add  pulverized  sugar  until  it  spreads  easily, 
spread  on  the  cake,  and  dry. 

YEAST  CAKE. 

To  .\  of  a  compressed  yeast-cake  take  i  cup  of  warm 
water.  Dissolve  in  it  i  level  tablespoonful  of  nut  butter, 
either  almond  or  peanut,  but  the  almond  will  make  the 
whitest  cake.  Then  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  good,  stiff 
batter,  and  let  rise  until  very  light.  Then  add  2  well-beaten 
eggs,  i  cup  of  sugar,  \  cup  of  nut  meal,  and  \  spoonful  of  salt; 
flavor  to  suit  the  taste,  and  add  about  \  cup  of  flour.  Beat 
thoroughly,  and  put  in  three  jelly  tins  to  rise  again.  When 
very  light,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  done.  Cool,  and 
cover  with  a  bread  cloth,  and  put  in  a  tight  box  or  can  to  keep 
it  moist  for  twenty-four  hours.  Then  put  any  filling  between 
the  cakes  you  wish,  as  follows:  Jelly,  cocoanut  cream  sauce, 
or  apple  or  banana  foam  as  directed  (see  index). 


CAKES.  371 

WASHINGTON  WEDDING  CAKE. 

Take  2  pounds  of  raisins,  2  pounds  of  currants,  i  pound 
of  citron,  i  pound  of  almond  meal,  i  pound  of  sugar,  }2 
pound  of  almond  butter,  i  pound  of  flour,  i  dozen  of  eggs,  i 
tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  I  grated  nutmeg,  .\  cup  of  water, 
i  teaspoonful  of  salt.  The  raisins  and  citron  should  be  both 
cut  up  and  rolled  in  flour.  After  the  eggs  are  beaten  very 
light,  stir  the  fruit  into  them.  Cream  the  almond,  sugar, 
and  water  together.  After  stirring  in  the  other  ingredients, 
fold  in  the  flour  lastly.  Turn  into  a  well-oiled  fruit-cake  tin, 
and  bake  slowly  for  two  or  three  hours.  If  it  bakes  too  fast 
on  top,  put  over  it  a  piece  of  tin,  a  sheet-iron  lid,  or  brown 
paper  will  do.  This  makes  a  very  large  cake. 

COCOANUT  CREAM  CAKE. 

Take  4  eggs,  i  cup  of  white  flour,  i  cup  of  white  granu- 
lated sugar,  ^  cup  of  cocoanut  cream,  juice  of  i  small  lemon, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Put  the  salt  and  one  half  of  the  lemon- 
juice  into  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  beat  until  it  has  a 
cooked  appearance,  and  place  in  a  cool  room  or  on  ice  while 
beating  the  yolks.  Then  add  the  rest  of  the  lemon-juice  to 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  beat  until  quite  thick  and  creamy; 
then  add  the  sugar  and  beat  again,  and  lastly  add  the  cream, 
and  beat  until  it  is  thick.  Then  fold  it  into  the  white  mixture, 
but  do  not  beat  it,  and  carefully  fold  in  the  flour,  sifting  a  little 
of  it,  or  about  one  fourth  of  it,  on  the  top  at  a  time.  Work  as 
little  as  possible  after  the  flour  is  added,  as  it  will  make  it 
tough.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  i\  hours,  being  sure 
that  it  is  done  before  removing.  Cakes  can  not  fall  after 
they  are  done,  if  they  are  turned  bottom  side  up  when  taken 


3/2  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

from  the  oven,  but  the  tins  must  not  be  oiled,  and  they 
must  rest  on  something,  so  that  the  air  can  circulate  under 
the  cake. 

HICKORY  CREAM  CAKE. 

Take  i\  cups  of  white  flour,  i  small  cup  of  granulated 
sugar,  one  scant  half  cup  of  hickory  cream  (this  should  be 
quite  thick).  Then  mix  with  it  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  which 
should  be  beaten  with  the  salt  and  lemon-juice  until  it  has  a 
cooked  appearance.  Fold  them  together  carefully,  and  then 
fold  in  the  flour,  and  pour  into  unoiled  tins.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes.  It  takes 
longer  to  bake  than  cakes  shortened  with  nut  meal.  It  is 
always  best  to  try  them  with  a  knitting-needle  before  remov- 
ing from  the  oven.  This  cake  has  a  strong  hickory-nut  flavor, 
and  is  moist  and  tender  like  a  cake  made  of  dairy  cream.  It 
is  very  nice  for  loaf  cake  or  jelly  roll. 

NUT  CREAM  COOKIES. 

Take  i  cup  of  thin  nut  cream,  4  eggs,  i^  cups  of  whites 
flour,  i  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  the 
whites  and  yolks  separately,  adding  the  salt  to  the  whites 
before  beating  and  the  sugar  to  the  yolks  after  they  are  well 
beaten;  then  mix  them,  and  add  the  raw  peanut  cream,  and 
beat  again  very  thoroughly;  then  pour  over  the  beaten  whites, 
and  fold  carefully  in;  lastly  fold  in  the  white  flour;  have 
ready  some  well-oiled  tins,  and  drop  on  about  \  tablespoonful, 
and  spread  around  in  the  shape  of  a  cook\  It  desired,  a 
raisin  may  be  put  in  the  middle,  or  some  almonds  which  have 
been  coarsely  chopped  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  top.  A 
candied  cranberry  or  cherry  may  be  placed  in  the  center,  but 
it  must  be  put  on  after  baking. 


CAKES.  373 

CHESTNUT  CAKE. 

Take  2  cups  of  chestnut  flour,  5  eggs,  i  scant  cup  of 
sugar.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  To 
make  the  chestnut  flour,  first  dry  the  nuts  before  shelling,  or 
toast  them  slightly  with  the  shells  on.  By  doing  this  the 
skins  will  be  loosened  and  easily  rubbed  off  without  blanch- 
ing ;  then  grind  them  in  a  family  grist-mill  or  a  coffee-mill  to 
a  fine  flour,  or  they  may  be  ground  through  the  nut-butter  mill. 

When  all  material  and  cake  tin  is  ready  and  the  oven  hot, 
separate  the  eggs,  and  beat  the  yolks  to  a  thick  cream  with  the 
sugar.  Then  beat  the  whites  until  they  are  stiff  and  crumbly, 
adding  the  water  and  salt  after  it  begins  to  get  foamy  but  be- 
fore it  is  stiff.  Then  pour  in  the  yolk  mixture,  and  fold  it 
carefully  in,  and  lastly  fold  in  the  2  cups  of  chestnut  flour. 
Bake  like  other  cakes. 

CHESTNUT  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Take  i|  cups  of  mashed  chestnuts,  ii  cups  of  chopped 
figs  or  dates,  and  |  cup  of  sifted  apples..  Blanch  the  chest- 
nuts, and  boil  until  tender,  rubbing  them  through  a  sieve  or 
a  colander.  Cook  good,  tart  apples  in  as  little  water  as  pos- 
sible ;  when  done,  sift  through  a  sieve.  Add  all  the  ingredi- 
ents, mixing  thoroughly.  If  desired,  add  a  little  salt,  and 
bake  in  an  oiled  tin  until  brown  on  top.  Other  fruits  may  be 
used  if  desired  or  more  convenient. 

CHESTNUT  DAINTY. 

Take  i  cup  of  cooked  and  sifted  chestnuts  and  i  cup  of 
jelly.  The  chestnut  pulp  should  be  quite  dry,  and  the  jelly 
added  while  it  is  hot,  or  it  may  be  heated  afterward.  Pour 
into  a  dish,  and  when  cold,  it  is  excellent  for  spreading  on 
bread  or  crackers,  or  making  sandwiches. 


3/4  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

CHESTNUT  SWEET  SOUFFLE. 

Take  2  cups  of  sifted  stewed  chestnuts,  2  eggs,  j  cup  of 
sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Separate  the  eggs,  and  beat  the 
yolks  to  a  stiff  cream  with  the  sugar  ;  then  add  the  sifted 
chestnuts,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  beat  them  in.  Add  the  salt 
to  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  beat  until  stiff  and  crumbly. 
Then  fold  the  two  mixtures  together,  pour  into  an  oiled  pie- 
tin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

DATE  DROP  CAKES. 

Take  i  cup  of  stoned  dates,  i  ^  cups  of  nut  meal  made 
from  any  kind  of  nuts,  3  eggs  well  beaten,  \  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla,  i  cup  of  whole-wheat  flour.  Grind  the  dates  through 
the  mill  or  chop  them  very  fine,  and  mix  the  nut  meal  with 
them.  Then  add  the  vanilla,  salt,  and  the  eggs,  which  should 
be  well  beaten.  Lastly,  add  the  flour.  Drop  on  oiled  tins, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  If 
the  dates  are  not  fresh,  a  little  water  will  have  to  be  added  to 
them  before  adding  the  butter. 

DATE  COOKIES. 

Take  2  cups  of  nut  butter,  3  cups  of  stoned  dates,  and 
enough  flour  to  roll  out  well.  Grind  the  dates  through  the 
mill  or  chop  them  very  fine,  and  mix  well  with  the  nut  butter, 
then  add  enough  flour  to  roll  out  about  one-fourth  inch  thick 
or  thinner  if  desired,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  as  they 
scorch  easily. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

Put  i  cup  of  hot  water  and  ?>  cup  of  nut  oil  into  a  stew- 
pan,  and  set  it  on  the  fire.  When  it  begins  to  boil,  pour  in  i 
pint  of  sifted  flour,  and  beat  and  stir  until  it  is  smooth  and 


CAKES.  375 

does  not  stick  to  the  pan.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  when 
cool,  add  5  eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites  of  which  have  been 
beaten  separately  until  very  stiff  ;  add  a  little  salt,  and  set  in 
a  warm  place  for  half  an  hour,  stirring  frequently.  Drop  in 
large  spoonfuls  on  oiled  tins,  about  two  inches  apart,  and 
bake  in  a  very  quick  oven  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 
When  done,  they  should  be  light  and  crisp.  When  cold,  cut 
a  slit  in  the  side,  and  put  in  all  the  custard  possible. 

CREAM  FOR  FILLING.-  -Take  |  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  corn- 
starch,  ij  cups  of  cocoanut  milk.  Put  the  milk  in  a  double 
boiler,  and  when  hot,  stir  into  it  the  corn-starch,  which  has 
been  rubbed  smooth,  with  a  little  cold  water  or  cocoanut 
milk  ;  then  stir  in  the  sugar  and  salt,  and  let  it  come  to  a 
boil,  stirring  constantly  ;  set  it  in  the  outer  part  of  the  double 
boiler,  and  let  it  cook  for  half  an  hour.  Add  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  3  eggs,  and  remove  to  a  cool  place.  When  the 
filling  is  cool,  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon,  and  fill  the  puffs. 
The  filling  can  be  varied  by  using  the  milk  or  cream  of  differ- 
ent nuts. 


ICING. 


ALLOW  10  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  \  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon-juice  to  the  white  of  I  egg.  Beat  the 
egg  until  you  can  invert  a  spoonful  of  it  without  its  falling, 
then  beat  in  the  sugar,  a  spoonful  at  a  time.  Add  the  lemon- 
juice,  and  spread  it  upon  the  warm  cake  with  a  broad  knife 
dipped  occasionally  in  cold  water.  Put  in  a  cool,  dry  place 
to  harden.  If  the  cake  is  rich,  dust  with  flour,  then  brush 
lightly  with  a  napkin  to  remove  what  does  not  adhere,  before 
frosting  it. 

HARD  OR  PLAIN  ICING. 

Take  the  whites  of  4  eggs  and  i  pound  of  powdered 
sugar  well  sifted,  and  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a 
spoon  egg  beater  until  frothy  but  not  white;  then  add  the 
sugar  a  little  at  a  time,  and  beat  from  the  bottom,  so  as  to 
take  up  all  the  egg  at  each  stroke.  Continue  this  beating 
until  it  can  be*  cut  with  a  knife  clean  and  smooth  like  cake. 
This  is  for  a  large  cake. 

CONFECTIONER'S  ICING. 

Take  the  whites  of  2   eggs  which  are  very  cold,   or  place 
them  on  ice   for  a   few    minutes,  then    beat    them,    adding   a 
little  at  a  time  .\  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  beating  until  stiff 
enough  to  be  cut  with  a  knife. 
[376] 


ICING.  377 

CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

Take  I  cup  of  nut  milk,  ^  pound  of  chocolate,  and  A  pint 
of  powdered  sugar.  Put  the  chocolate  grated  fine  in  a  basin 
on  the  stove,  add  a  little  of  the  milk,  and  let  it  melt;  then  add 
the  rest  of  the  milk  and  the  sugar.  When  this  is  hot,  pour 
over  it  the  white  of  a  well-beaten  egg,  beating  constantly 
while  pouring  it  in.  When  smooth,  spread  on  the  cake 
while  it  is  a  little  warm,  and  let  dry. 

ORANGE  ICING  NO.  i. 

Select  a  good,  solid  orange,  wipe  clean  with  a  damp  cloth, 
then  roll  it  with  the  hands  on  a  plate  until  the  oil  starts  from 
the  pores;  then  take  a  little  granulated  sugar  in  each  hand  and 
rub  the  orange  until  the  sugar  is  filled  with  the  oil.  Take 
more  sugar  and  so  on  until  all  of  the  oil  is  taken  out  of  the 
orange.  This  gives  the  pure  flavor  of  the  orange  without  the 
bitter  part  of  the  rind.  Add  the  sugar  and  the  orange  juice 
to  the  plain  icing. 

ORANGE  ICING  NO.  2. 

When  breaking  the  eggs  for  the  cake,  select  the  egg  that 
has  a  very  dark-colored  yolk,  as  some  yolks  are  a  great  deal 
darker  than  others.  Beat  this  egg  yolk  until  thick  and 
foamy.  Have  ready  I  cup  of  sugar  which  has  been  boiled  in 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  water  until  it  will  rope  when  dropped 
from  the  spoon.  Pour  it  over  the  egg  yolk,  and  beat  it  in; 
flavor  with  i  tablespoonful  of  orange  extract,  or  a  little  of  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  orange. 

LEMON  ICING. 

Take  a  lemon,  and  wipe  it  clean  with  a  damp  cloth,  then 
roll  it  on  a  plate  until  the  oil  begins  to  exude  from  the  pores. 
Now  take  some  sugar  in  each  hand  and  rub  the  lemon  over 


3/8  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

with  it  until  the  flavor  is  extracted,  changing  the  sugar  as 
fast  as  it  seems  saturated  with  the  oil.  In  this  way  you  have 
the  pure  flavor  of  the  lemon  without  the  bitter  white  portion 
of  the  rind.  If  the  color  of  lemon  is  desired,  add  a  little  of 
the  tincture  of  saffron  to  the  icing.  Add  the  sugar  and  the 
juice  of  the  lemon  to  the  plain  icing.  When  done,  use 
at  once. 

PLAIN  ICING  FOR  CAKE. 

Sift  4  ounces  of  pulverized  sugar,  beat  the  white  of  i  egg 
stiff,  then  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar,  adding  a  little  at  a 
time  until  it  forms  a  thick  and  smooth  paste;  when  it  is  ready 
for  use. 

ROSE  ICING. 

Make  the  same  as  for  plain  icing,  and  then  add  i  table- 
spoonful  of  rose-water.  Rose-water  harmonizes  well  with 
the  flavor  of  almonds.  If  a  pink  color  is  desired,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  thick  cranberry  juice  may  be  added;  add  with  it 
more  sugar.  Confectioners  use  cochineal  and  carmine  for 
coloring;  but  they  are  not  to  be  recommended. 

GREEN  ICING. 

Make  a  boiled  frosting,  and  add  enough  of  the  green 
coloring  (see  index)  to  make  the  desired  color,  any  flavoring 
desired  may  be  added.  This  coloring  is  simple,  and  not  at 
all  injurious. 

YELLOW  FROSTING. 

To  the  yolk  of  i  egg  add  9  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  pulver- 
ized sugar,  and  flavor  with  lemon,  vanilla,  or  any  flavoring 
desired.  This  is  a  nice  frosting  for  a  lemon  cake,  in  which 
case  it  should  be  flavored  with  lemon. 


ICING.  379 


ALMOND  FROSTING. 

Take  ^  pound  of  almond  butter,  i  tablespoonful  of  rose- 
water,  |  pound  of  pulverized  sugar,  and  the  whites  of  3  eggs. 
Beat  up  the  whites  and  sugar  as  directed  for  plain  icing, 
then  work  in  the  almond  butter.  Spread  it  on  the  cake,  let 
dry,  and  cover  with  a  plain  icing. 

SOFT  ICING, 

Mix  i  pound  of  pulverized  sugar  with  i  tablespoonful  of 
nut  milk  or  any  kind  of  fruit  juice  desired.  Spread  on  the 
cake  while  warm  about  one-eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness  and 
let  dry.  This  is  excellent  for  sponge  cake,  snow  cake,  etc. 

BOILED  ICING. 

Take  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  and  beat  to  a  stiff  froth.  Place 
in  a  basin  i  cup  of  granulated  sugar  with  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  water.  Boil  briskly  for  five  minutes  or  until  it  drops 
in  threads  from  the  spoon,  then  pour  in  a  small  stream  on 
the  beaten  egg,  beating  constantly  in  order  thoroughly  to 
mix  and  cook  all  parts  of  the  egg.  A  little  cranberry  juice 
may  be  added  if  a  delicate  pink  frosting  is  desired;  or  if  a 
yellow  color  is  desired,  grate  the  rind  of  an  orange  or  lemon; 
add  a  very  little  of  the  juice,  and  squeeze  through  a  thin  cloth. 
Chopped  almonds  or  hickory-nuts  may  be  added. 

FROSTING  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Dissolve  i  heaping  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  in  a  very 
little  water,  placing  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water;  add  a 
little  hot  water,  and  let  cook  until  very  thick.  While  the 
starch  is  hot,  stir  in  if-  cups  of  sifted  sugar.  Flavor  with  any 


3<SO  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

flavoring  desired,  and  spread  on  the  cake  while  the  cake  is 
yet  warm.  This  cake  should  be  made  the  day  before  using, 
as  it  takes  longer  for  the  frosting  to  dry  than  where  eggs 
are  used. 

QUICKLY  MADE  ICING. 

Take  i  teaspoonful  of  water  or  any  kind  of  fruit  juice,  and 
dissolve  in  it  all  the  powdered  sugar  it  will  take  up,  or  until 
very  thick;  then  spread  over  the  cake.  It  will  not  be  very 
thick,  but  it  is  nice  for  light  cakes,  such  as  sponge  cake,  etc. 


DRINKS. 


THE  system  requires  from  three  to  four  quarts  of  water 
each  day,  but  this  should  be  taken  either  one  hour  before 
meals  or  three  hours  after  eating.  Drinking  at  meal-time 
dilutes  the  gastric  juice  of  the  stomach,  and  hinders  the  proc- 
ess of  digestion.  A  great  many  people  have  formed  the 
habit  of  drinking  while  they  eat.  Thus  the  food  is  moistened 
with  drinks,  and  the  saliva  almost  ceases  to  flow.  It  is  then 
very  difficult  to  get  the  salivary  glands  to  secrete  enough 
saliva  to  moisten  the  food  sufficiently  for  swallowing  ;  but  if 
a  dry  diet  is  persisted  in  long  enough,  the  saliva  will  flow  in 
sufficient  quantities,  and  drinks  will  not  be  desired. 

If  anything  of  a  liquid  nature  is  taken  at  meal-time,  it 
should  be  something  warm,  as  cold  drinks  have  to  call  upon 
the  system  to  warm  them,  and  they  stop  all  digestion  until  the 
stomach  has  again  reached  its  normal  temperature.  People 
who  are  strong  and  healthy  might  not  feel  the  evil  effects 
of  this  at  once,  but  those  who  are  feeble,  and  those  having 
small  vitality,  will  soon  weaken  under  this  continual  abuse  of 
nature. 

Following  are  a  few  recipes  for  beverages  to  take  the 
place  of  tea,  coffee,  and  other  injurious  drinks,  until  the 
system  is  weaned  from  their  use,  and  then  little  by  little  the 
substitute  can  be  given  up,  until  the  salivary  glands  have 
learned  to  do  their  work  so  well  that  no  drink  will  be  required 
at  meal-time. 


382  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

PEANUT  AND  CEREAL  COFFEE. 

Take  i  cup  of  coarsely  ground  peanuts,  2  cups  of  wheat 
bran,  .\  cup  of  corn-meal,  I  cup  of  malt  dissolved  in  \  cup  of 
boiling  water.  Mix  all  together,  and  bake  in  the  oven  to  a 
nice  brown. 

CEREAL  COFFEE. 

To  3  cups  of  wheat  bran  add  i  cup  of  corn-meal.  Then 
take  \  cup  'of  malt  extract,  and  dissolve  in  \  cup  of  boiling 
water,  and  pour  over  the  bran  and  corn-meal  after  they  have 
been  thoroughly  mixed.  Mix  well,  and  bake  in  the  oven  until 
a  nice  dark  brown.  Use  i  level  ta.blespoonful  to  i  cup  of 
coffee.  Cook  slowly  fifteen  minutes. 

PEANUT  COFFEE  NO.   J. 

Look  over  the  peanuts,  rejecting  all  the  poor  ones  and 
foreign  substances,  and  roast  in  the  roaster  or  oven  until  they 
are  a  dark  brown,  about  the  color  of  Java  coffee  when  roasted. 
Remove  the  skins,  as  they  will  make  it  bitter  ;  grind,  but  not 
too  fine.  Use  the  same  as  any  coffee. 

PEANUT  COFFEE  NO.   2. 

Make  like  the  above,  and  then  add  i  tablespoonful  of  malt 
extract  to  ^  cup  of  water.  When  thoroughly  dissolved,  add 
to  i  quart  of  ground  peanuts,  and  dry  in  the  oven. 

CHUFA  COFFEE. 

Take  some  good  chufas,  or  earth  almonds,  wash  them 
well,  and  bake  in  the  oven  or  roast  in  a  peanut  roaster  until 
quite  brown,  but  not  burned.  Grind  in  a  coffee-mill,  but  not 
very  fine,  then  use  the  same  as  any  coffee.  (See  article  on 
Chufas.) 


DRINKS.  383 

BRAZIL-NUT  COFFEE. 

Roast  the  kernels  of  the  Brazil-nut  to  a  nice  brown  ;  when 
cold,  pound  or  grind  to  a  coarse  meal.  Use  I  heaping  table- 
spoonful  to  i  pint  of  water.  Simmer  gently  for  one  hour. 

BUTTERNUT  COFFEE. 

Put  butternut  kernels  on  a  pie-tin,  and  bake  in  the  oven 
until  they  are  nicely  browned,  but  not  scorched.  When  cold, 
mash  them  to  a  meal  with  a  cup  or  glass  bottle  on  the  tin, 
and  use  i  tablespoonful  for  2  cups  of  coffee.  It  is  rich,  and 
has  the  best  flavor  of  all  coffee  substitutes. 

WALNUT  COFFEE. 

Roast  the  walnut  kernels  in  the  same  way  as  for  but- 
ternut coffee,  and  use  the  same  quantity  for  making  the 
coffee. 

Pecans  and  hickory-nuts  may  be  used  in  the  same  way, 
and  are  very  nice. 


SALADS 


LETTUCE  SALAD. 

STRAIN  i  pint  of  tomatoes,  and  put  on  stove  to  heat. 
When  boiling,  take  a  little  of  the  hot  juice  and  I 
tablespoonful  of  nut  butter,  and  work  together  until  creamy. 
Then  stir  into  the  tomatoes.  Lastly  add  i  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water,  with 
salt  to  taste.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler.  Pour  this  preparation 
while  hot  over  the  lettuce,  meanwhile  stirring  the  leaves  with 
a  fork. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Take  3  eggs,  i  cup  of  nut  cream,  |  cup  of  lemon-juice, 
\  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  i  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat 
the  eggs,  and  put  all  together  in  a  small  double  boiler,  and 
cook  until  thickened,  stirring  continually  in  order  to  have  it 
smooth.  If  too  thick,  thin  it  with  hot  water.  This  dress- 
ing may-  be  used  on  lettuce  or  any  salad  ;  and  such  additions 
may  be  made  to  the  body  of  the  salad  in  the  way  of  chopped 
celery,  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs,  or  celery  salt,  as  desired. 

NUTMEATOSE  SALAD  NO.   J. 

To  each  half  pound  of  nutrneatose,  cut  in  small  slices, 
add  a  dressing  made  of  \  cup  of  nut  cream,  ^  cup  of  slightly 
diluted  lemon-juice,  i  egg,  i  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately,  then 

[384] 


SALADS.  385 

mix  them.  Pour  slowly  over  them  the  heated  mixture  of 
sugar,  salt,  and  lemon-juice,  stirring  rapidly  all  the  time. 
Add  lastly  the  cream,  and  heat  until  it  thickens. 


NUTMEATOSE  SALAD  NO.  2. 

Take  good  firm  nutmeatose,  cut  it  in  small  slices,  and 
cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  an  hour  or  more,  then  drain  off  the 
liquid,  and  pour  the  nutmeatose  into  the  salad  dish. 

Make  a  dressing  by  rubbing  smooth  the  yolks  of  4  hard- 
boiled  •  eggs,  with  i  teaspoonful  of  peanut  oil  or  any  oil 
desired,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  the  juice  of  i  lemon,  diluted 
with  enough  water  to  make  i  cupful.  It  is  best  to  mince 
some  celery  very  fine,  and  distribute  among  the  pieces  of 
nutmeatose  without  breaking  the  nutmeatose.  Then  pour 
over  it  the  dressing.  The  liquid  in  which  the  nutmeatose 
was  cooked  can  be  used  instead  of  water  if  desired. 


MOCK  SALMON  SALAD. 

Take  i  cup  of  nut  butter,  |  cup  of  strained  tomatoes,  i 
cup  of  water,  i  cup  of  corn-starch,  and  salt  to  suit  the  taste. 
Cook  in  a  steamer  three  or  four  hours.  Use  the  same  dress- 
ing over  this  as  for  nutmeatose  salad. 

**> 

|  WATERCRESS  SALAD. 

Carefully  wash  some  fresh  watercress,  break  them  in  about 
one-inch  lengths,  and  dry  them  with  a  clean  towel;  then  place 
them  in  the  dish  in  which  they  are  to  be  served,  and  pour 
over  them  i  teaspoonful  of  peanut  oil  mixed  with  lemon- 
juice;  then  dust  with  salt.  Dandelions  and  oyster-plant  can 

be  served  in  the  same  way. 
25 


386 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


ARTICHOKE. 


Slice  cold  boiled  artichoke  without  breaking  the  slices; 
arrange  them  in  a  dish,  and  pour  over  them  a  plain  salad 
dressing  made  of  2  tablespoonfuls  of  peanut  oil  and  I  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon-juice,  with  a  little  salt. 


MOCK  CHICKEN  SALAD. 

MOCK  CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Take  3  cups  of  nutmcato  which  has  been  cut  into  very 
small  cubes,  and  i  .\  cups  of  celery  after  it  has  been  chopped 
or  cut  very  fine,  using  the  tender  white  leaves  and  only  the 
tender  part  of  the  stocks.  Mix  them  well  together,  and  keep 
upon  the  plate  or  platter  on  which  it  is  to  be  served, 
squeezing  over  it  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Then  make  a 
dressing  as  follows:- 


SALADS. 


Take  i  heaping  tablespoonful  of  almond  butter  (an  equal 
amount  of  pine-nut  butter  is  as  good)  dissolved  in  |  cup  of  hot 
water,  and  \  cup  of  lemon-juice,  place  in  a  basin  on  the 
stove,  and  stir  until  it  boils;  then  add  I  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch  which  has  been  rubbed  in  a  very  little  water.  Let  it 
boil  a  minute,  and  pour  slowly  over  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
which  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  beat  while  stirring  in 
the  hot  gravy,  and  it  will  cook  the  egg  sufficiently.  Then 
pour  while  hot  over  the  salad.  In  the  accompanying  cut  the 
salad  is  garnished  with  celery  leaves  and  slices  of  lemon. 
Serve  cold,  sending  a  piece  of  lemon  with  each  dish  of 
salad. 

TOMATO  SALAD. 

Take  ripe,  solid,  meaty  tomatoes,  cut  in  slices  one-half  inch 
thick,  and  place  in  the  dish  in  which  they  are  to  be  served;  rub 
the  yolk  of  i  hard-boiled  egg  with  i  tablespoonful  of  lemon- 
juice,  i  of  nut  butter  or  nut  oil,  and  i  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
and  salt  to  suit  the  taste,  until  it  is  smooth;  then  heat  to 
boiling,  and  pour  over  i  well-beaten  egg,  stirring  well  as  you 
pour  it  in.  Turn  this  dressing  over  the  sliced  tomatoes. 
Serve  cold. 

TURNIP  SALAD. 

Select  good,  crisp  turnips,  peel,  and  with  a  sharp  knife 
cut  into  cubes  by  cutting  first  one  way  a  certain  distance  - 
about  one-half  inch  -  -  and  then  across  those  cuts  the  same 
distance  apart;  then  slice  one-half  inch  thick,  and  the  little 
cubes  will  fall  on  the  dish.  Stew  about  an  hour,  or  until 
tender.  When  cold,  pile  into  a  dish  garnished  with  lettuce, 
sprinkle  with  nut  meal,  celery  salt,  and  lemon-juice.  The 
celery  salt  may  be  omitted  if  desired. 


^SS  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

\J 

BEET  SALAD. 

Cook  blood  beets  until  perfectly  tender,  then  cut  into 
small  cubes,  and  pile  them  upon  a  salad  dish  which  has  been 
lined  with  lettuce  leaves.  Pour  over  the  center  a  salad 
dressing  as  given  under  Butternut  Sandwiches;  but  leave  a 
ring  of  the  beets  that  has  no  dressing  on  it,  as  the  red  beets 
are  so  pretty  contrasted  with  the  yellow  dressing. 

NUTORA  SALAD. 

Take  some  tomato  nutora  (see  page  88),  and  cut  it 
into  small  cubes.  Select  some  good  crisp,  white  celery,  and 
slice  the  tender  part  of  the  stock  very  thin,  having  about  I 
cup  of  the  sliced  celery  for  2  cups  of  the  nutora;  carefully 
mix  them  together,  and  heap  upon  a  salad  dish.  Then 
make  a  salad  dressing  by  heating  I  teaspoonful  of  nut  butter 
dissolved  in  I  cup  of  water  and  J  cup  of  lemon-juice  to  boil- 
ing, and  pour  while  hot  over  a  well-beaten  egg.  Put  it  in 
the  inner  part  of  a  double  boiler,  and  cook  it  until  it  is 
creamy,  stirring  constantly,  then  pour  around  the  edge  of 
the  salad,  leaving  some  in  the  center  on  which  there  is  no 
dressing,  as  the  cubes  of  nutora  mixed  with  the  white  moon- 
shaped  pieces  of  celery  are  very  pretty.  Garnish  the  salad 
with  slices  of  nutora  of  peanuts  (see  page  85)  which  has  been 
cooked  in  small  cans.  Bank  the  edge  of  the  plate  with 
parsley;  and,  if  desired,  a  central  garnish  may  be  made  by 
cutting  the  ends  from  a  lemon,  inserting  some  parsley  leaves, 
and  placing  it  in  the  center  of  the  dish.  (See  cut  on  opposite 
page.) 


1  1 

gNOUYGMflOjl    NMU'lU 

<INV 


I'HOA  M3N  3H1 


00 


Q 


CO 

Z 

w 
W 
u 

H^ 

X 
U 

w 

8 

s 


TOASTS. 


COASTS  are  foods  well    calculated  for  breakfast,    as  they 
1    can  be  made  in   a  short  time,  and  the  material  prepared 
the  day  before. 

Toasted  bread  or  zwieback  should  be  made  of  good  light 
bread,  white,  graham,  or  whole-wheat,  cut  in  slices  about  two 
thirds  of  an  inch  thick.  Stale  bread  is  better,  as  the  zwie- 
back made  from  it  will  be  more  brittle  and  crisp.  Sour  or 
heavy  bread  will  not  make  zwieback.  Place  in  a  warming 
oven  until  quite  well  dried  through,  and  then  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  a  nice  light  brown  clear  through.  New 
or  moist  bread  baked  in  a  hot  oven  will  render  it  so  tough  and 
hard  that  it  will  be  almost  impossible  to  eat  it.  Bread  that 
is  toasted  only  on  the  surface  is  as  injurious  as  new  bread, 
for  the  central  part  of  the  slice  is  just  like  new  bread.  When 
toasted  bread  is  mentioned  in  the  following  recipes,  that 
which  has  been  toasted  clear  through  is  meant.  Most  of  the 
toasts  given  under  this  head  are  excellent  foods  for  the  sick, 
being  at  the  same  time  something  to  please  the  eye,  palate, 
and  stomach. 

APPLE  TOAST. 

Take  6  good-sized  tart  apples;  pare,  core,  and  cook  in  as 
little  water  as  possible  until  very  tender.  Stir  often  when 
nearly  done  to  keep  from  burning,  and  to  dry  them  out. 
Remove  from  the  stove,  and  sift  through  a  sieve;  add  sugar 
to  taste,  and  beat  until  it  is  light  and  filled  with  -air  bubbles. 
Reheat,  and  moisten  slices  of  zwieback  by  dipping  them  into 


392  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

a  dish  of  hot  water  and  immediately  removing  them.  Place 
the  toast  on  individual  pie  plates,  and  cover  with  the  hot 
sifted  apple.  Serve  at  once. 

ASPARAGUS  TOAST. 

Moisten  slices  of  zwieback  in  hot  nut  milk,  and  put  on 
them  a  sauce  made  like  the  recipe  for  asparagus  with  egg 
sauce.  (See  index.) 

APPLE  FOAM  TOAST. 

Moisten  slices  of  zwieback,  and  cover  with  an  apple  foam 
sauce.  (See  recipe  for  Apple  Foam 

BANANA  TOAST. 

Select  nice,  ripe  bananas,  and  press  through  a  fruit  press 
or  mash  with  a  silver  fork.  Add  a  very  little  sugar,  and  serve 
on  moistened  zwieback.  The  bananas  can  be  heated  after 
they  are  mashed,  if  desired. 

BANANA  FOAM  TOAST. 

Moisten  nicely  browned  slices  of  toast,  and  cover  with  a 
sauce  made  like  recipe  for  Banana  Foam.  (See  index.) 

CELERY  TOAST. 

Take  nicely  browned  slices  of  zwieback,  and  moisten  by 
dipping  into  hot  water  and  removing  at  once.  Place  on  pie 
plates,  and  cover  with  a  celery  gravy  made  according  to 
recipe.  (See  index.) 

CRANBERRY  TOAST. 

Wash,  and  cook  some  cranberries  in  a  very  little  water  ; 
when  done,  put  through  a  sieve  to  remove  the  skins,  which 
are  hard  of  digestion.  Add  enough  sugar  to  sweeten,  and 


TOASTS.  393 

heat  again  to  boiling,  and  pour  over  slices  of  white  zwieback, 
which  have  been  moistened  by  dipping  into  hot  water.  The 
acid  of  the  cranberry  does  not  seem  so  sharp  if  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  almond  butter  is  added  to  each  pint  of  the  cranberries. 

DATE  TOAST. 

Pull  the  dates  apart,  and  pour  over  them  boiling  water, 
shake  in  the  dish  for  a  few  minutes  to  remove  the  dirt,  and 
then  drain.  Pour  on  cold  water,  and  when  cool,  drain  again, 
and  wipe  with  a  clean  towel.  Some  people  are  afraid  to  wash 
dates  for  fear  they  will  melt  or  lose  some  of  their  goodness, 
but  this  is  a  mistake  ;  though  they  are  soft,  they  have  a  tough 
skin  that  will  not  admit  the  water.  Then  grind  them  through 
the  nut-butter  mill.  To  i  cup  of  the  ground  dates  add  2  cups 
of  hot  water,  and  put  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  on  well-moistened 
slices  of  zwieback. 

DRIED  APPLE  TOAST. 

Wash  the  dried  apples  well,  and  soak  in  lukewarm  water 
for  two  hours,  then  stew  slowly  until  very  tender,  and  beat 
smooth  or  put  through  a  colander.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and 
season  with  the  oil  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  or  a  little  grated 
lemon  peel.  Serve  on  slices  of  zwieback  dipped  into  hot 
nut  milk. 

EGG  TOAST  NO.  J. 

Pour  boiling  water  into  a  spider  or  shallow  dish,  and  place 
it  on  the  stove  where  it  will  keep  just  below  the  boiling-point. 
Break  in  a  saucer  as  many  eggs  as  there  are  pieces  of  toast, 
slip  them  into  the  hot  \vater,  and  let  them  cook,  but  not 
boil,  until  the  whites  are  well  set.  Have  ready  some  slices  of 
zwieback,  moisten  them  in  hot  nut  milk,  skim  out  the  eggs, 
and  place  one  on  each  slice  of  toast.  Salt  a  little,  and  serve 
hot. 


394  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

EGG  TOAST  NO.  2. 

Put  some  nut  milk  in  a  basin  on  the  stove  to  heat  ;  take  I 
egg  for  each  slice  of  toast.  Separate  the  whites  and  yolks, 
and  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  a  little  salt.  Then 
dip  nice  slices  of  zwieback  into  the  hot  nut  milk,  which  should 
be  salted  just  a  little  ;  place  on  a  pie-tin,  place  the  beaten 
whites  on  the  toast,  making  a  hole  in  the  center,  in  which 
put  the  yolk  of  the  egg.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
slightly  brown.  Serve  at  once. 

EGG  TOAST  NO.  3. 

Beat  i  egg  until  smooth,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  .j  cup 
of  nut  cream.  Dip  into  it  well-toasted  bread  (zwieback), 
covering  all  sides  with  the  egg  ;  then  roll  them  in  bread- 
crumbs, grated  fine.  Place  on  oiled  tins,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Serve  dry,  or  with  hot 
nut  milk. 

FIG  TOAST. 

Look  over  and  wash  in  hot  water  enough  figs  to  cover 
toast  for  the  family.  For  a  family  of  five,  take  A  pound  of 
figs,  grind  them  through  the  nut-butter  mill,  having  it  ad- 
justed tight  enough  to  grind  the  seeds  to  a  flour  ;  add  2  cups 
of  hot  nut  milk,  stirring  until  it  is  smooth.  Put  a  spoonful 
or  two  on  nice  slices  of  zwieback  which  have  been  moistened 
by  dipping  into  hot  nut  milk. 

GRAVY  TOAST. 

Make  a  gravy  as  directed  for  nut  gravy.  (See  index.) 
To  each  pint  of  the  gravy  add  \  cup  of  sugar  and  ^  teaspoon- 
ful  of  vanilla.  Place  a  few  spoonfuls  of  it  on  well-moistened 
slices  of  zwieback. 


TOASTS.  395 

FRUIT   TOAST. 

Heat  i  pint  of  grape  juice  or  juice  of  other  stewed  fruit, 
such  as  strawberries,  blackberries,  blueberries,  etc.,  until  boil- 
ing, and  sweeten  to  taste.  Thicken  to  the  desired  consistency 
with  corn-starch  rubbed  smooth  in  a  litttle  cold  water,  and 
cook  one  hour  in  a  double  boiler.  Have  ready  some  zwieback 
which  has  been  soaked  in  some  hot  water  or  fruit  juice, 
place  in  a  saucer,  and  put  on  3  or  4  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
prepared  fruit,  and  serve  hot.  This  is  a  most  desirable  and 
wholesome  breakfast  dish. 

LEMON  TOAST. 

Take  some  nicely  toasted  zwieback.  If  you  wish  it  very 
nice,  cut  light  white  bread  in  slices  about  one-half  inch  thick, 
and  cut  them  in  rounds  with  a  large  cooky-cutter,  and  toast  in 
a  very  slow  oven  until  dry  clear  through,  and  of  a  light  brown 
on  the  outside.  Take  the  oil  of  a  lemon  (see  directions  for 
lemon  syrup),  and  make  a  thin  batter  with  a  little  of  this 
sugar,  i  egg,  2  cups  of  milk,  and  flour  to  make  of  the  right 
consistency.  Dip  each  round  of  toast  into  this  batter,  coat- 
ing it  on  both  sides;  place  on  oiled  tins,  sift  over  all  a  little 
pulverized  sugar,  and  bake  for  ten  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  This  can  be  served  with  or  without  a  dressing  of 
nut  cream. 

LENTIL  TOAST. 

Cook  lentils  until  perfectly  tender,  and  rub  through  a 
colander.  To  i  pint  of  sifted  lentils  add  }2  cup  of  nut  cream 
and  a  little  salt.  If  too  thick,  add  more  nut  cream;  but  if 
too  thin,  thicken  with  a  little  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  cold 
water.  Put  a  few  spoonfuls  of  this  lentil  dressing  on  mois- 
tened slices  of  zwieback. 


396  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

MALT  TOAST. 

Take  a  nice  piece  of  graham  or  whole-wheat  zwieback, 
dip  it  into  hot  nut  milk,  place  it  in  a  warm  dish  in  which  it  is 
to  be  served,  and  spread  over  it  the  following:  i  tablespoon- 
ful  of  malt  extract  and  i  tablespoonful  of  nut  cream,  mixed 
thoroughly  together.  This  is  enough  for  only  i  slice  of 
toast. 

NUT-BUTTER  TOAST. 

Take  some  nicely  toasted  zwieback  and  place  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  to  reheat.  Have  ready  some  peanut  butter  which 
has  been  diluted  by  adding  an  equal  quantity  of  slightly 
salted  hot  water.  Spread  on  the  toast  while  very  hot,  and 
serve  at  once.  This  is  excellent  for  those  who  desire  a 
dry  diet. 

PEACH  TOAST. 

Take  canned  peaches,  or  fresh  ones,  and  stew  them.  Put 
through  a  sieve  or  colander,  sweeten  to  taste,  reheat,  thicken 
with  a  little  white  flour;  let  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  serve  on 
moistened  slices  of  zwieback. 

NUT  FOAM  TOAST. 

Make  a  nut  gravy  of  raw  peanut  milk,  and  sweeten  to 
taste;  then  take  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  beat  to  a  stiff 
froth,  so  that  the  dish  can  be  inverted  without  the  mixture 
falling  out.  Pour  the  hot  nut  gravy  over  the  beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beating  all  the  time  to  keep  it  from  cooking  in 
lumps.  If  the  gravy  is  boiling  hot,  it  will  cook  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  sufficiently.  Then  moisten  nicely  toasted  zwieback 
in  hot  water  or  hot  nut  milk,  and  cover  with  a  gravy. 
Serve  at  once. 


TOASTS.  397 

PRUNE  TOAST. 

Wash  the  prunes,  and  cook  slowly  until  tender,  then  rub 
through  a  colander.  If  it  is  too  thin,  thicken  with  a  little 
corn-starch  or  flour.  Add  I  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  ^ 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla  to  each  pint  of  sifted  prunes.  Take 
fresh  zwieback,  dip  the  slices  into  hot  water,  taking  them 
out  immediately,  place  them  in  the  dish  in  which  they  are 
to  be  served,  and  put  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  on  each  slice 
of  toast.  Serve  hot. 

RAISIN  TOAST. 

Take  a  little  almond  meal  that  has  been  thoroughly  dried, 
and  run  it  through  the  nut-butter  mill,  grinding  it  into  butter; 
then  look  over  and  wash  ^  pound  of  raisins,  seed  them,  and 
grind  through  the  mill.  Add  to  the  raisins  I  tablespoonful 
of  the  almond  butter  and  \  cup  of  hot  water.  Heat  on  the 
stove  to  the  boiling-point,  and  pour  this  over  nice  slices  of 
zwieback  which  have  been  moistened  by  dipping  into  hot 
water. 

TOMATO  TOAST  NO.  J. 

Moisten  slices  of  well-toasted  bread  in  hot  water,  and 
serve  with  the  following  dressing:  Select  good,  ripe  tomatoes, 
pour  over  them  boiling  water,  let  stand  a  minute  or  two, 
then  drain,  and  rub  off  the  skins.  Cut  a  slice  from  the  blow 
end,  and  with  the  finger  remove  all  the  seeds;  then  cut  in 
small  pieces,  and  cook  to  a  mush.  If  they  do  not  boil  to 
pieces,  rub  through  a  sieve  or  colander.  To  i  pint  of  the 
stewed  tomatoes  add  \  cup  of  peanut  cream,  thicken  with  I 
tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  or  flour,  and  pour  over  the 
moistened  toast. 


391^  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

TOMATO  TOAST  NO.  2. 

Make  a  nut  gravy  according  to  recipe  No  I.  (See  index.) 
For  i  pint  of  this  gravy,  select  i  medium-sized  tomato, 
remove  the  the  skins  and  seeds,  and  cut  the  flesh  in  very 
small  pieces,  rejecting  any  part  that  may  be  hard  or  green, 
and  add  to  the  gravy.  Let  boil  slowly  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
serve  on  moistened  slices  of  zwieback.  For  people  who  do 
not  like  a  strong  tomato  flavor,  this  is  better  than  the  pre- 
ceding recipe. 

FRENCH  TOAST. 

Cut  slices  of  bread,  and  dip  them  in  a  cream  made  of  3 
eggs,  i  cup  of  nut  cream,  and  a  little  salt.  Brown  on  a  soap- 
stone,  or  roll  in  meal  and  pine-nut  butter,  and  brown  in  the 
oven. 

PARCHED  ALMOND  BROTH  TOAST. 

Blanch  some  sweet  almonds,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  to 
toast  to  a  nice  light  brown.  When  they  get  perfectly  cool, 
grind  them  to  a  butter.  Take  i  heaping  teaspoonful  to  i 
pint  of  water  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  let  it  steep  for  half  an  hour 
or  longer,  then  pour  over  slices  of  zwieback. 

The  parched  pine-nuts  may  be  used  in  the  same  way,  and 
make  an  equally  good  toast. 

Try  other  nuts  in  the  same  way. 

SUNSHINE  TOAST. 

Select  some  good,  ripe  yellow  tomatoes  (the  pear  tomato  is 
very  good);  heat  and  sift  through  a  colander  to  remove  the 
skins  and  seeds.  To  i  pint  of  the  sifted  tomato  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  white  flour  and  i  heaping  teaspoonful  of 


TOASTS.  399 

peanut  butter  dissolved  in  a  little  water;  add  salt  to  suit  the 
taste.  Pour  while  hot  over  slices  of  zwieback  which  have 
been  moistened  with  a  little  hot  water. 

DRY  BUTTER  TOAST. 

Take  nicely  toasted  bread,  which  has  been  toasted  on  the 
soapstone  or  in  the  oven.  Spread  with  fresh  nut  butter  that 
has  not  been  diluted,  place  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes, 
and  serve  very  hot. 

ZWIEOLA. 

Take  2\  pounds  or  8  cups  of  white  flour,  A  pound  or  2^ 
cups  of  rolled  oats,  2  ounces  or  \  cup  of  corn-meal.  Mix  the  in- 
gredients thoroughly,  adding  a  little  salt  if  desired,  and  wet 
with  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough.  Roll  out 
into  crackers  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  score  across 
the  top  into  small  squares,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
one  hour,  or  until  dry  and  crisp  clear  through.  Break  the 
crackers  into  small  pieces  ;  grind  in  an  ordinary  grain-  or 
coffee-mill,  or  can  be  ground  in  nut-butter  mill  loosely  ad- 
justed. This  and  the  following  recipe  are  splendid  health 
foods.  Don't  fail  to  try  them. 

MALTED  NUT  ZWIEOLA. 

Take  8  cups  of  white  flour,  2\  cups  of  rolled  oats,  \  cup  of 
corn-meal,  2  cups  of  peanut  meal,  with  enough  water  to  make 
a  very  stiff  dough,  and  proceed  as  with  the  above  recipe. 
When  baked  and  ground  to  a  coarse  meal,  add  \  cup  of  malt, 
diluted  in  \  cup  of  hot  water,  to  about  i  quart  of  the  ground 
zwieola  ;  mix,  and  dry  in  a  slow  oven.  When  dry,  grind 
again. 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK. 


OICK  people  usually  have  but  very  little  appetite,  and  all 
O  that  can  be  done  in  presenting  the  food  in  a  neat  and 
dainty  way,  making  it  attractive  to  the  eye  as  well  as  to  the 
smell  and  taste,  will  be  appreciated.  The  napkins  should  be 
of  snowy  whiteness,  the  dishes  the  best  the  house  affords,  and 
as  neatly  arranged  as  possible.  Avoid  loading  the  tray  with 
either  too  great  a  variety  or  too  much  of  one  thing.  It  is 
always  better  to  have  too  little  than  too  much. 


DRINKS. 

A  REFRESHING  DRINK. 

Take  i  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  i  cup  of  cranberries,  and  3 
pints  of  water.  Boil  for  half  an  hour.  Sweeten  to  suit  the 
taste.  Strain  and  let  cool. 

ALMOND  MILK. 

Take  i  tablespoonful  of  almond  butter,  and  dissolve  it  in  I 
pint  of  hot  water;  when  boiling,  stir  in  .\  teaspoonful  of  white 
flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water.  Let  it  boil  a 
minute  or  two,  and  strain  through  a  fine  muslin  cloth.  Serve 
cold  or  hot  as  preferred. 
[4oo] 


FOOD   FOR   THE   SICK.  40 1 

APPLE  WATER. 

Take  I  large,  juicy  apple  (the  pippin  is  the  best 
flavored),  pare  and  quarter,  but  do  not  core.  Put  it  into  a 
stew  kettle  with  3  cups  of  cold  water,  and  cook  slowly  until 
the  apple  is  cooked  to  pieces,  then  strain  through  a  coarse 
bag,  pressing  it  some.  Strain  through  a  finer  bag,  sweeten  to 
taste,  and  cool  for  drinking.  This  is  an  excellent  drink  for 
invalids  in  hot  weather. 

BERRY  WATER. 

Take  strawberries,  or  raspberries,  or  any  berries  desired; 
put  them  in  a  stout  but  coarse  muslin  bag,  and  mash  with  a 
wooden  potato  masher,  squeezing  out  all  the  juice  possible. 
Strain  through  a  fine  muslin  cloth,  and  dilute  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  water.  A  little  sugar  may  be  added  if  desired. 

CHERRY  WATER. 

Select  good,  ripe  cherries,  the  sweet  varieties  are  the 
best;  pit  them;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  and  boil  a  few  min- 
utes in  a  little  water,  then  strain  through  a  muslin  jelly-bag, 
and  let  stand  to  cool  until  ready  to  use;  take  ^  glass  of  the 
juice,  and  fill  the  glass  with  cold  sterilized  water.  Canned 
cherries  are  just  as  good. 

CURRANT  WATER. 

Take  some  good,  ripe  currants,  pick  from  the  stems,  and 
wash  well.  Put  them  in  a  strong  muslin  bag,  and  pound 
with  a  wooden  potato  masher  until  all  the  currants  are  bro- 
ken, then  squeeze  out  all  the  juice.  For  making  the  currant 
water,  take  i  cup  of  currant  juice  and  ^  cup  of  water;  add  a 
little  sugar,  and  serve  cold. 
26 


4O2  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

HOT  WATER. 

If  clean,  soft  water  can  be  obtained,  it  is  the  best;  but 
never  use  cistern  water.  Put  in  a  graniteware  or  a  porce- 
lain-lined kettle.  Let  it  boil  up  quickly,  and  take  from  the 
stove  at  once.  Too  much  boiling  causes  the  air  in  the  water 
to  escape,  and  makes  it  have  a  flat  taste. 

COLD  LEMONADE. 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  a  medium-sized  lemon,  and  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  the  juice;  stir  until  the  sugar  is 
pretty  well  dissolved,  then  add  I  pint  of  very  cold  sterilized 
water.  This  is  excellent  to  give  in  cases  of  fever,  but  should 
not  be  given  at  meal-time,  for  the  acid  of  the  lernon  prevents 
the  digestion  of  the  starch. 

HOT  LEMONADE. 

Take  2  medium-sized  lemons,  peel  just  thick  enough  to 
remove  the  yellow  portion,  but  not  to  cause  the  juice  to  run 
out.  Cut  in  halves,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice;  strain  through 
a  fine  wire  sieve  or  fine  muslin  cloth  to  remove  every  seed 
and  small  particles  of  the  white  fiber,  which  would  cause  it  to 
be  bitter,  then  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  I  pint  of 
boiling  water,  and  serve  at  once. 

If  the  lemon  is  squeezed  without  the  yellow  rind  being 
pared,  some  of  the  oil  of  the  rind  may  get  into  the  juice, 
and  cause  it  to  be  bitter. 

This  is  an  excellent  drink  to  break  up  a  cold  or  fever 
when  it  first  starts.  Take  a  thorough  enema,  soak  the  feet 
in  hot  water  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  drink  3  glasses  of 
hot  lemonade,  and  go  to  bed.  In  the  morning  take  a  tepid 
bath,  and  be  well. 


FOOD    FOR    THE    SICK.  403 

RICE  WATER. 

Boil  ^  cup  of  rice  in  2  quarts  of  water  for  one  and  one- 
half  hours.  Rice,  when  boiled  for  a  long  time,  will  become 
a  jelly,  and  is  slightly  constipating  in  its  nature.  To  each 
glass  of  the  water,  add  i  teaspoonful  of  currant  jelly,  or  any 
fruit  jelly  desired. 

PINEAPPLEADE. 

Take  I  cup  of  sugar,  put  in  a  granite  stew-kettle  with  I 
pint  (2  cups)  of  water,  let  it  boil  until  it  forms  a  thin  syrup, 
removing  the  scum  as  fast  as  it  rises  ;  meantime,  pare  a  ripe 
pineapple  quite  thin,  and  with  a  sharp-pointed  knife  remove 
all  the  eyes,  grate  into  a  bowl,  add  to  the  syrup,  let  it  boil 
for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  and  cool.  Add  more  water,  strain 
and  use. 

SLIPPERY-ELM  TEA. 

Take  a  few  small  pieces  of  slippery-elm  bark,  and  pour 
over  them  some  cold  water.  Place  on  the  stove,  and  let  them 
cook  a  few  minutes  ;  then  strain  and  use,  hot  or  cold.  Add 
lemon-juice  if  desired. 


GRUELS. 

CORN-MEAL  GRUEL. 

Take  I  quart  of  water,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-meal,  I 
tablespoonful  of  white  flour,  and  a  little  salt  and  nut  cream. 
Rub  the  corn-meal  and  flour  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water, 
and  pour  it  slowly  into  the  boiling  water,  then  add  a  little  salt 
and  nut  cream.  Put  into  a  double  boiler,  and  cook  for  three 
hours.  If  too  much  of  the  water  boils  away,  more  should  be 
added. 


4°4  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

GRAHAM  GRUEL. 

Take  4  cups  of  water,  I  cup  of  graham  flour,  and  i  table- 
spoonful  of  almond  meal.  Rub  the  flour  smooth  in  i  cup  of 
the  water,  and  heat  the  other  3  cups  to  boiling,  stirring  in  the 
flour  slowly;  then  stir  in  the  almond  meal,  and  cook  in  a 
double  boiler  for  one  hour  or  more.  Salt  may  be  added  to 
the  water  if  desired. 

GROUND  RICE  GRUEL. 

Put  into  the  inner  cup  of  a  double  boiler  3  cups  of  water, 
just  a  little  salt,  i  tablespoonful  of  almond  meal  (see  index 
for  directions),  and  i  tablespoonful  of  ground  rice.  Let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  and  then  place  in  the  double  boiler,  the  water 
in  which  should  be  boiling,  and  cook  for  one  hour.  If  de- 
sired, a  few  raisins  may  be  added  ;  they  give  it  a  flavor  which 
improves  it. 

PLAIN  GLUTEN  GRUEL. 

To  i  pint  of  boiling  water  stir  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  glu- 
ten, boil  until  it  thickens,  salt  slightly,  and  serve  at  once. 
Gluten  is  already  cooked,  so  it  does  not  need  prolonged 
cooking. 

ALMOND  GLUTEN  GRUEL. 

To  the  plain  gluten  gruel  add  2  level  tablespoonfuls  of 
almond  meal  ;  put  in  a  double  boiler,  and  cook  for  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes.  Peanuts,  hazelnuts,  or  any  nut  meal  may 
be  used  instead  of  the  almonds,  if  desired. 

GLUTEN  EGG  GRUEL. 

Make  a  thin,  gluten  gruel,  because  the  egg  will  thicken  it 

somewhat.      Beat  the   egg    smooth,    and  pour  the  hot  gruel 

over    the    egg,    beating  all  the    time  to  have  it    thoroughly 
mixed  before  cooking. 


FOOD    FOR   THE   SICK.  405 

GLUTEN  GRUEL  WITH  RAISINS. 

To  i  pint  of  water  which  should  be  boiling,  add  2  level 
tablespoonfuls  of  gluten  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water, 
a  little  salt,  and  |  cup  of  seedless  or  seeded  raisins  which 
have  been  washed  and  soaked  for  one  hour  or  more.  Cook 
in  a  double  boiler  or  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  for  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes. 

OATMEAL  GRUEL. 

Into  i  quart  of  boiling  water  stir  I  cup  of  rolled  oats,  let 
it  boil  until  it  will  not  settle  when  lifted  from  the  stove,  then 
place  in  a  double  boiler,  and  cook  three  hours.  When  done, 
sift  through  a  sieve.  Add  a  little  salt  and  nut  cream,  either 
almond  or  peanut,  and  serve  hot. 

NUT  GRUEL. 

Blanch  ^  cup  of  almonds  and  ^  cup  of  peanuts,  and  put 
them  to  cook  in  soft  water.  Let  boil  slowly  until  perfectly 
tender,  then  rub  through  a  sieve.  It  will  take  three  or  four 
hours  for  them  to  cook.  Add  to  them  \  cup  of  zwieback, 
grated  fine,  a  very  little  salt,  and  enough  water  to  make  of 
the  consistency  of  gruel.  This  is  a  very  palatable  and  nutri- 
tious dish  for  the  sick. 

WHITE  FLOUR  GRUEL. 

Take  i  pint  of  nut  milk,  put  in  an  inner  cup  of  a  double 
boiler;  when  boiling,  stir  in  i  level  tablespoonful  of  white 
flour,  which  has  been  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water. 
Season  with  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg  or  vanilla.  ,A  very  little 
sugar  may  be  added,  if  desired. 


406  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

FRUIT. 

Fruits  are  the  most  simple  and  easily  digested  of  all 
foods;  they  contain  a  great  deal  of  water,  and  are  therefore 
very  useful  as  food  in  fever  cases.  They  also  contain  acids 
that  are  antiseptic  in  nature.  The  raw  fruit,  if  thoroughly 
ripe  and  perfectly  sound,  can  be  eaten  with  relish  and  with- 
out injury  by  most  invalids. 

BAKED  SWEET  APPLES. 

Select  good  sweet  apples  (the  Talrnan  Sweets  are  the  best 
sweet  winter  apples),  wash  thoroughly,  remove  the  blow  from 
the  end,  but  let  the  stem  remain,  place  on  granite  pie-tins, 
pour  over  them  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  very  soft  clear  through.  It  will  take 
one  and  one-half  or  two  hours  according  to  the  size  of  the 
apple.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 

BAKED  SOUR  APPLES. 

Take  good  tart  apples,  but  not  those  that  are  too  acid; 
wash  well,  pull  off  the  stem,  and  remove  the  core  from  the 
blow  end  by  means  of  a  sharp  knife  or  new  clothes-pin,  then 
place  them  stem  end  down  on  a  granite  pie-tin,  and  bake  until 
soft  but  not  mushy.  Have  ready  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  flavor  with  sugar  and  vanilla.  Fill  up  the 
cavities  in  the  apple  with  the  frosting,  and  place  the  half  of  a 
walnut  kernel  on  top.  Place  in  the  oven  to  brown  lightly. 

BAKED   PEARS. 

Select  good,  ripe  pears,  wash  well,  but  do  not  pare,  and 
with  a  sharp  knife  remove  the  core  from  the  blow  end;  place 
in  a  granite  pie-tin  with  a  very  little  water,  and  bake  in  a 


FOOD    FOR    THE    SICK.  407 

moderate  oven  for  two  hours  or  until  they  are  very  soft  clear 
through.  If  they  are  quite  ripe,  it  will  not  take  so  long.  When 
done,  set  them  up  on  the  stem  end,  and  fill  the  holes  with  the 
white  of  an  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  sweetened  with  sugar 
and  flavored  with  vanilla;  then  place  a  blanched  and  roasted 
almond  upon  the  top  of  the  frosting,  return  to  the  oven  and 
let  brown  a  trifle.  Serve  at  once,  or  serve  cold. 

STEWED  PRUNES. 

Get  good,  sweet,  California  prunes,  look  over,  wash,  and 
soak  in  cool  water  overnight.  In  the  morning,  put  into  a 
granite  stew-pan  with  enough  cool  water  to  cover  them.  Set 
them  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  where  they  will  cook 
gently  for  three  or  four  hours,  or  until  they  are  perfectly  ten- 
der. They  are  very  good  without  sugar,  but  a  little  may  be 
added  if  desired.  An  excellent  food  in  case  of  fevers  and 
constipation. 

CRANBERRY  AND  SAGO  JELLY. 

Take  I  pint  of  cranberries;  wash,  and  put  into  a  granite 
stew-pan,  or  cook  in  something  which  the  acid  of  the  berry 
will  not  affect,  and  cause  the  fruit  to  taste  ;  cover  with  cold 
water,  and  cook  until  the  skins  burst.  Mash  with  a  spoon, 
pour  into  a  jelly-bag,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice.  To  each 
pint  of  the  juice  add  f  cup  of  sugar  and  {  cup  of  sago  ;  put 
on  the  stove,  and  let  cook  until  the  sago  is  transparent,  then 
pour  into  cups  to  mold,  and  serve  cold. 

TAPIOCA  JELLY. 

Take  2  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca,  I  pint  of  water,  and 
boil  very  slowly  for  one  hour,  or  until  it  becomes  like  jelly 
and  transparent  ;  add  sugar  to  suit  the  taste,  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  any  fruit  juice  desired.  Can  be  eaten  hot,  or 
molded  and  served  cold. 


408  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

CHESTNUTS  WITH  RAISINS. 

Remove  the  chestnuts  from  the  shells,  and  put  on  the  stove 
in  hot  water,  allowing  them  to  boil  until  the  skins  are  loose 
enough  to  rub  off,  which  will  be  in  about  five  minutes;  then 
put  on  to  cook  in  hot  water,  and  when  they  are  about  half 
done,  or  in  one  hour,  put  in  some  well-washed  raisins,  and 
cook  until  the  chestnuts  are  mealy;  a  little  salt  may  also  be 
added  if  desired. 

STEWED  CHESTNUTS. 

Prepare  the  chestnuts  as  in  the  preceding  recipe,  and  cook 
until  mealy;  then  add  a  little  vanilla,  and  to  I  pint  of  the 
chestnuts  add  I  tablespoonful  of  malt  ;  heat  and  serve. 

MALT. 

Malt  is  especially  adapted  to  those  stomachs  which  can 
not  digest  starch.  It  is  made  from  barley;  the  starch  has 
been  digested  by  the  process  through  which  it  has  gone. 
Take  about  i  tablespoonful  at  each  meal.  It  also  may  be 
mixed  with  other  foods,  as  malted  caramels,  malted  butter, 
etc.  See  directions  for  making  elsewhere. 

BREAD  FOR  THE  SICK. 

The  unfermented  breads  and  zwieback  are  the  best,  as 
they  do  not  contain  the  yeast  germs.  Such  breads  as  rolls, 
crisps,  sticks,  gems,  and  crackers  are  excellent.  See  direc- 
tions for  making  under  Breads. 


FOOD    FOR    THE    SICK.  409 

Zwieback  which  has  been  thoroughly  toasted,  so  that  all 
the  yeast  germs  are  destroyed,  granola,  and  granose  are 
also  good. 

EGG-NOG  NO.   J. 

Take  i  tumbler  of  cocoanut  cream,  add  to  it  i  teaspoon- 
ful  of  granulated  sugar,  the  yolk  of  i  egg,  and  beat  with  a 
fork  until  creamy.  Beat  the  whites  of  an  egg  and  a  pinch  of 
salt  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  i  teaspoonful  of  granulated  sugar. 
Put  two  thirds  of  the  beaten  white  in  the  tumbler  with  the 
other  mixture  and  work  together.  Then  put  the  remaining 
one  third  of  the  white  on  top  and  serve  at  once. 

EGG-NOG  NO.  2. 

Take  i  medium-sized  lemon,  i  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  i 
perfectly  fresh  egg,  \  glass  of  nut  cream.  Wash  and  scrape 
the  lemon  with  a  fork  till  all  the  oil  cells  are  broken,  then 
rub  the  sugar  into  it  till  it  becomes  quite  yellow.  Add  half 
of  this  to  the  cream,  yolk,  and  tablespoonful  of  juice,  mixed 
together  in  a  glass.  Add  the  remaining  of  the  sugar  to  the 
stiffly  beaten  white.  Lastly  stir  two  thirds  of  the  white  into 
the  glass,  and  pile  the  remainder  on  top. 

ORANGE  EGG-NOG. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  i  egg  and  i  tablespoonful  of  cold  orange 
juice  until  stiff.  Beat  the  white  until  it  is  frothy,  but  not 
stiff,  and  add  the  rest  of  the  orange  juice,  and  sugar  to  suit 
the  taste,  beating  it  until  it  is  very  stiff  and  crumbly.  Fold 
it  with  the  beaten  yolks,  put  in  a  tumbler,  and  serve  at  once. 
A  little  of  the  orange  oil  may  be  added  if  desired.  To  ob- 
tain the  oil,  roll  the  orange  on  a  plate  or  platter  until  the  oil 
starts  from  the  pores,  then  take  a  little  granulated  sugar  in 


4IO  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

each  hand,  and  rub  the  orange  until  the  sugar  is  saturated 
with  the  oil  ;  then  take  more  sugar  and  continue  until  the  oil 
is  all  taken.  Use  the  sugar,  or  a  part  of  it,  in  sweetening 
the  egg-nog. 

LEMON  EGG-NOG. 

Proceed  the  same  as  with  the  orange  egg-nog,  using  the 
juice  of  the  lemon  instead  of  the  orange.  As  the  lemon  is 
very  acid,  a  less  quantity  is  needed--^  lemon  would  be  suffi- 
cient. These  dishes  are  excellent  for  the  sick,  who  can  not 
take  much  nourishment,  but  very  little  sugar  should  be  used 
in  them. 

FRUIT  EGG-NOG. 

Beat  the  egg,  without  separating,  until  very  stiff,  then  add 
the  sugar,  and  beat  again.  Add  the  fruit  juice  (cranberry, 
strawberry,  or  any  other  kind  of  fruit  desired),  adding  a  little 
at  a  time,  beating  vigorously  ;  2  tablespoonfuls  for  one  egg  is 
sufficient. 

SNOW  EGG-NOG. 

Take  the  white  of  i  egg,  and  beat  until  frothy  ;  then  add 
i  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  i  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice, 
beating  until  it  is  dry  and  crumbly.  Put  in  a  tumbler,  and 
serve  at  once.  Orange  juice  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
lemon  if  desired,  or  a  little  fruit  juice,  or  vanilla. 

OTHER  FOODS  FOR  THE  SICK. 

Other  foods,  directions  for  which  are  given  elsewhere,  are 
also  good  for  the  sick.  Most  of  the  toasts  given  under  that 
head  can  be  used  ;  also  the  grains  and  puddings. 


CREAMS,  ICES,  ETC. 


ICE-CREAM    NO.  J. 

rPAKE  i  quart  of  nut  cream,  i  cup  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  and 
1  2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of 
the  eggs  separately,  adding  the  sugar  and  yolks;  then  add  the 
vanilla,  the  beaten  whites,  and  lastly  the  nut  cream.  Freeze 
at  once. 

ICE-CREAM  NO.  2. 

Take  i  quart  of  rich  nut  cream,  either  almond  or  peanut. 
If  made  from  peanuts,  the  nuts  should  not  be  roasted  very 
brown,  only  a  yellow  color.  Add  i  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla.  Turn  the  cream  into  a  double 
boiler,  and  cook  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  Add  the  sugar 
before  cooking,  then  cook,  and  add  the  vanilla,  and  freeze. 

ICE-CREAM  NO.  3. 

Take  3  pints  of  nut  cream  (made  by  adding  \  cup  of  light 
nut  butter  to  each  pint  of  water),  3  eggs,  3  teaspoonfuls  of 
corn-starch,  i^  cups  of  sugar.  Scald  cream  in  a  double 
boiler,  add  corn-starch,  cook  five  minutes,  take  from  the  fire, 
add  eggs  and  sugar  beaten  together,  and  flavor  with  i  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  or  lemon  extract;  cool  and  freeze.  Add 
i  pint  of  fruit,  if  desired. 

FRUIT  ICE-CREAM. 

Make  like  recipe  No.  3,  and  add  i  cup  of  mashed  fruit  to 
every  quart  of  cream.  If  desired,  the  juice  of  the  fruit  only 
need  be  used. 


412  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

NUT  ICE-CREAM. 

Make  like  recipe  No.  3,  and  add  2  cups  of  nut  meal  made 
from  walnuts,    cocoanuts,    or  any  other  nut   desired. 

ICE-CREAM  MADE  OF   PEANUT  MILK. 

Make  the  peanut  milk  by  grinding  the  raw  peanuts  to  a 
meal,  but  do  not  grind  as  fine  as  peanut  butter  ;  then  to  2 
cups  of  meal  add  3  cups  of  water,  and  beat  very  thoroughly. 
Strain  through  two  thicknesses  of  cheese-cloth,  pressing  out 
all  the  milk  ;  put  the  contents  of  the  bag  into  a  bowl,  and 
pour  on  i^  cups  of  water,  beat  very  thoroughly,  and  strain 
the  second  time.  Take  the  milk  thus  obtained,  and  cook  in 
a  double  boiler  for  two  hours  or  more,  add  two  well-beaten 
eggs  to  each  quart  of  milk,  4  cup  of  sugar,  i  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla,  and  salt  to  taste.  Stir  in  the  ingredients  thoroughly, 
and  remove  from  the  stove  ;  put  into  a  pan  of  cold  water  to 
cool.  When  cool,  it  is  ready  to  freeze. 

ALMOND  ICE-CREAM. 

Take  ^  pound  or  f  cup  of  almond  butter,  and  dissolve  in 
i^  quarts  of  cold  water,  then  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  2  beaten 
eggs,  and  ^  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Beat  well  together  and 
freeze.  Any  flavoring  may  be  added  that  suits  the  taste 
of  the  family,  or  if  preferred,  grated  pineapple,  strawberries, 
or  any  fruit  desired  may  be  added. 

ICE-CREAM   OF  HICKORY  CREAM. 

Make  the  hickory  cream  as  directed  elsewhere,  and  to  I 
quart  of  this  cream  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  sugar  to  suit  the  taste.  Freeze  without  cooking. 


CREAMS,    ICES,    ETC.  413 

ICE-CREAM  OF  PINE-NUT  MILK. 

Grind  or  mash  the  pine-nuts  to  a  fine  meal,  and  to  each 
cup  of  the  meal  add  2  cups  of  cold  or  lukewarm  water  ;  beat 
with  a  spoon,  and  press  through  two  thicknesses  of  cheese- 
cloth. To  each  quart  of  this  milk  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  sugar  to  suit  the  taste,  and  I  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Mix  well,  and  freeze.  The  cream  from  any  other 
nut  may  be  made  into  ice-cream. 


WATER   ICES. 

ORANGE  ICE. 

Take  2  quarts  of  water,  i  quart  of  orange  juice,  and  2 
pounds  of  sugar.  Melt  the  sugar  in  the  water,  letting  it  boil 
for  a  few  moments,  and  removing  the  scum,  if  any  rises. 
Then  add  the  juice,  and  let  it  boil  up  once,  again  skimming, 
if  necessary.  When  cold,  put  into  a  freezer,  and  turn  until 
it  is  partly  frozen.  Remove  the  cover,  scrape  down  the  sides, 
and  add  a  meringue  made  of  the  white  of  i  egg  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth,  with  i  teaspoonful  of  finely  powdered  sugar. 
Work  it  in  as  smooth  as  possible,  and  then  turn  until  frozen. 
The  meringue  keeps  it  from  forming  into  granules,  and  makes 
it  more  like  ice-cream. 

LEMON  ICE. 

Take  3  quarts  of  water,  i  pint  of  lemon-juice,  2  pounds  of 
sugar. 

Make  the  same  as  orange  ice. 


4'4  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

PINEAPPLE  ICE. 

Take  3  quarts  of  water,  i\  pints  of  pineapple  juice,  and 
2  pounds  of  sugar. 

Make  the   same  as  orange  ice. 

If  desired,  the  cream  of  any  nuts  may  be  substituted  for 
the  water,  but  it  then  becomes  an  ice-cream. 


SHERBETS. 

Sherbets  consist  of  the  frozen  juices  of  fruits  without  the 
addition  of  water.  Usually  a  combination  of  fruit  juices  is 
employed. 

SHERBET  NO.  J. 

Take  2  quarts  of  peach  pulp,  i  quart  of  orange  juice,  and 
2  pounds  of  sugar. 

Make  the  same  as  water  ices,  omitting  the  meringue. 

SHERBET  NO.  2. 

Take  2  quarts  of  apple  juice,  i  quart  of  orange  juice,  2 
pounds  of  sugar. 

Make  the  same  as  orange  ice,  omitting  the  meringue. 
The  pulp  or  juice  of  the  strawberry,  raspberry,  cherry, 
currant,  plum,  grape,  or  any  other  fruit  may  be  used  in 
the  same  way. 


TO  BLANCH  NUTS. 


PEANUTS. 

T)  OASTED  peanuts  are  blanched  quite  easily.  The  best 
1 V  and  quickest  method  is  with  a  blanching  machine  made 
for  that  purpose.  But  they  can  be  blanched  quite  rapidly  by 
rubbing  them  upon  a  sieve  made  of  coarse  wire,  or  they  may 
be  blanched  by  putting  a  few  at  a  time  in  a  coarse  cloth  or 
bag,  and  rubbing  between  the  hands.  The  skins  can  then 
be  removed  by  pouring  from  one  dish  into  another  and  using 
an  ordinary  fan,  or  where  the  wind  is  blowing.  There  is  a 
fan  in  the  blanching  machine,  so  when  it  is  used  the  nuts  are 
free  from  chaff  as  they  come  from  the  machine. 

ALMONDS. 

Almonds  may  be  blanched  by  pouring  over  them  boiling 
water,  and  letting  them  stand  for  a  few  minutes  until  the 
skins  become  loose.  Then  by  pressing  the  nut  between  the 
thumb  and  ringer  the  kernel  will  jump  out  of  its  jacket. 

Some  variety  of  almonds  can  be  blanched  by  heating  in 
the  oven  until  they  are  hot,  but  not  browned  in  the  least. 
Set  them  in  a  cool,  dry  place;  and  when  cold,  the  skins  can  be 
rubbed  off  the  same  as  roasted  peanuts. 

FILBERTS. 

Put  the  filberts  on  a  tin  in  the  oven,  and  let  them  get  hot, 
but  do  not  brown  in  the  least.  As  soon  as  they  get  hot,  the 

[415] 


4l  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

skins  will  begin  to   crack;  then  cool,    and  they    will  rub  off 
easily. 

Do  not  roast  the  nuts,  as  roasting  spoils  the  flavor. 

WALNUTS. 

Put  the  shelled  walnuts  on  a  tin  in  the  oven  just  long 
enough  to  get  hot.  Then  remove,  and  when  cool,  rub  off  the 
skins.  They  may  also  be  blanched  by  putting  in  boiling 
water  for  a  few  minutes;  but  they  can  not  be  blanched  so 
fast  in  this  way. 

BUTTERNUTS. 

Remove  from  the  sheU  as  whole  as  possible,  and  then 
place  in  the  oven  until  they  are  heated  through.  When  cool, 
the  skins  will  rub  off  easily. 

Brazil-nuts  can  be  blanched  in  the  same  way. 


TO  SALT  NUTS. 


PEANUTS    NO.  J. 

TAKE  some  peanuts  that   have  been  blanched   and  looked 
over,    pour    cold   water    over    them,    and    drain.        Tphen. 
place  on  granite  pie-tins,  sprinkle  generously  with  fine  table      _.- 
salt,  and  bake  in   a  moderate  oven    until  they  are  perfectly 
dry   and  crisp. 

Peanuts  that  are  not  blanched  can  be  salted  in  the 
same  way. 

Peanuts  that  are  salted  in  this  way  do  not  have  the  oily 
appearance  that  those  do  which  have  been  salted  the  ordinary 
way,  —  with  butter;  and  they  do  not  become  rancid  as  soon. 

PEANUTS   NO.  2. 

If  it  is  desired  to  salt  with  the  skins  on,  take  them  hot 
from  the  roaster  or  oven,  and  for  each  quart  pour  over  ^ 
tablespoonful  of  nut  oil;  mix  well  that  each  kernel  may  be 
oiled  on  all  sides,  then  sprinkle  generously  with  salt,  and 
mix  again. 

If  it  is  desired  to  have  the  nuts  blanched  before  salting, 
they  must  be  allowed  to  get  cold  after  roasting,  so  that  the 
skins  can  be  easily  removed.  After  looking  over  the  nuts, 
pour  over  them  i  tablespoonful  of  hot  nut  oil.  Mix  well,  and 
sprinkle  on  salt,  and  mix  again. 

Nuts  salted  in  this  way,  should  be  eaten  as  soon  after 
salting  as  possible,  or  they  will  become  rancid. 

27  [417] 


41 H  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


ALMONDS   NO.  J. 

Take  some  almonds  that  have  been  blanched,  pour  cold 
water  over  them,  and  drain.  Then  sprinkle  with  fine  table 
salt,  mix  thoroughly,  and  bake  to  a  nice  straw  color. 

ALMONDS  NO.  2. 

Put  blanched  almonds  in  the  oven,  and  toast  to  a  nice 
straw  color;  remove  from  the  oven,  and  while  hot,  pour  over 
them  i  tablespoonful  of  nut  oil  for  each  quart  of  almonds. 
Mix  well,  and  sprinkle  with  salt;  mix  again  thoroughly,  and 
when  cool,  serve. 

PINE-NUTS. 

Wash  the  nuts  in  water,  drain,  and  sprinkle  with  salt, 
mixing  it  in  well.  Then  place  in  the  oven  until  they  are 
toasted  to  a  straw  color.  Toasting  very  much  improves  the 
taste  of  the  pine-nut. 

FILBERTS. 

First  blanch  the  filberts,  then  pour  over  them  some  cold 
water,  and  drain.  Sprinkle  generously  with  fine  table  salt, 
and  after  mixing  well,  place  in  the  oven  to  dry,  but  do  not 
brown  in  the  least,  as  it  hurts  the  flavor  of  the  filbert  to 
toast  it. 

WALNUTS,  HICKORY-NUTS,  PECANS, 
BUTTERNUT,  ETC 

These  may  be  salted  in  the  same  way  as  other  nuts,  but 
toasting  does  not  improve  the  taste  of  these  nuts  ;  they  should 
be  placed  in  the  oven  only  long  enough  to  dry. 


CONFECTIONERY. 


TAFFY. 

TAKE  3  cups  of  very  light  brown  sugar  and  I  cup  of  water. 
Put  into  a  dish  which  may  be  readily  handled.  A  long- 
handled,  granite  stew-pan  is  most  convenient.  Stir  until 
sugar  is  dissolved  ;  no  longer,  or  it  will  grain.  When  nearly 
done,  add  I  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice  and  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  peanut  oil.  Test  by  dropping  a  little  into  a  cup  of  cold 
water.  If  it  hardens  quickly  and  becomes  brittle,  it  is  done, 
and  should  be  removed  from  the  stove  at  once,  lest  it  should 
become  too  stiff.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract,  pour 
the  mixture  into  shallow  pans,  previously  oiled,  and  take  to  a 
cool  place.  When  cooled  sufficiently  to  allow  handling,  be- 
gin pulling.  The  more  it  is  pulled,  the  lighter  it  becomes. 

PEANUT  CANDY. 

Take  i  pound  of  sugar,  and  i  pound  of  peanuts.  Sugar 
should  be  granulated,  although  other  kinds  may  be  used. 
Melt  the  sugar  by  putting  it  into  a  granite  or  porcelain-lined 
kettle  or  basin,  and  heating,  using  care  constantly  to  stir  to 
prevent  burning.  While  melting,  it  will  turn  to  a  brown 
color  and  then  become  creamy  ;  then  add  the  blanched  pea- 
nuts. Turn  at  once  into  an  oiled  tin  or  platter.  If  made  as 
it  should  be,  the  candy  will  be  brittle  when  cold.  If  the  pea- 
nuts are  salted  before  being  added,  better  candy  can  be  made. 

[419] 


42O  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

COCOANUT  CREAM  CARAMELS. 

Take  4  cups  of  Coffee  A  sugar,  or  light-brown  sugar,  and 
i  cup  of  thin  cocoanut  cream.  Stir  for  five  minutes.  Place 
on  stove,  and  boil,  not  stirring  after  sugar  has  melted.  Test 
by  dropping  a  little  into  a  cup  of  cold  water.  If  it  becomes 
thick  enough  to  be  worked  between  the  fingers,  like  caramels, 
it  has  boiled  enough.  Just  before  removing  from  stove,  flavor 
with  vanilla,  or  any  other  extract  desired.  Pour  into  square 
tins,  about  half  an  inch  in  thickness.  Cut  into  squares,  and 
wrap  in  oiled  paper.  The  candy,  by  being  pulled  like  taffy, 
may  be  made  a  much  lighter  color  and  better  in  quality. 

HONEY  CARAMELS. 

To  3  cups  of  light-brown,  or  2\  cups  of  Coffee  A  sugar, 
add  \  cup  of  cream,  \  cup  of  hot  water,  and  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  strained  honey.  Mix  well,  and  allow  to  boil  without 
stirring.  Test  frequently,  until  a  small  amount,  dropped  into 
ice-water,  will  make  a  slight  crackling  sound  by  coming  in 
contact  with  the  cold  water ;  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla,  and  pour  the  mixture  into  an  oiled  pan.  Before 
becoming  very  cool,  cut  into  squares. 

PEANUT  CREAM  CARAMELS. 

Make  like  the  cocoanut  creams,  substituting  peanut  cream 
and  water  in  place  of  the  cocoanut  cream.  If  more  water  is 
added,  and  the  mixture  allowed  to  cook  longer,  the  raw  pea- 
nut taste  is  avoided.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  rose-water,  and 
finish  the  candy  the  same  as  above  recipe. 

CREAM  NUTS. 

Take  the  white  of  i  egg,  i  teaspoonful  of  cocoanut  cream, 
i  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  i  pound  of  pulverized  sugar. 


CONFECTIONERY.  42 1 

Beat  the  white  of  the  egg,  add  the  vanilla,  and  beat  again. 
Pour  in  the  nut  cream,  and  beat  in  part  of  the  sugar;  then 
take  out  the  egg-beater,  and  knead  in  sufficient  sugar  to  make 
the  mixture  mold  well,  taking  care  not  to  put  in  too  much, 
lest  it  should  become  crumbly.  Make  into  balls  by  rolling 
between  the  hands,  and  press  the  half  of  a  walnut  or  pecan 
kernel  into  the  top.  Put  into  well-oiled  tins,  place  in  the 
oven,  leaving  the  door  open,  and  bake  very  slowly --long 
enough  to  cook  the  egg,  but  not  to  melt  the  sugar. 

CHOCOLATE  DROPS. 

Shave  a  sufficient  quantity  of  chocolate  to  make  I  cup, 
put  in  a  basin,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  until  the  chocolate 
melts.  Add  i  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  i  teaspoonful  of 
water,  mix  well,  and  add  i^  cups  of  pulverized  sugar  and  i 
level  tablespoonful  of  almond  or  pine-nut  butter. 

ALMOND  CREAMS. 

Work  2  tablespoonfuls  of  almond  butter  in  pulverized  sugar 
until  it  can  be  molded  with  the  hands,  when  the  mixture 
should  be  molded  into  cone-shaped  drops  and  allowed  to  dry. 
Rose-water,  vanilla,  or  any  flavoring  desired,  may  be  added. 

Chocolate  creams  may  be  made  in  this  manner  by  adding 
to  the  almond  creams  a  coating  of  chocolate,  which  can  be 
done  by  melting  grated  chocolate,  and  rolling  the  drops  in  it, 
after  which  place  on  oiled  tins,  and  allow  to  dry. 

PEPPERMINT  LOZENGES. 

Beat  the  white  of  i  egg  with  i  teaspoonful  of  water,  until 
stiff;  then  beat  in  as  much  pulverized  sugar  as  possible,  and 
add  5  or  6  drops  of  peppermint  oil.  Sift  some  powdered 


42  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

sugar  upon  a  marble  slab  or  large  platter,  and  knead  well, 
adding  more  sugar,  if  needed.  Roll  out  with  a  glass  rolling- 
pin.  A  round  glass  bottle  will  do.  Cut  into  small  round-  or 
square-shaped  pieces,  or  roll  into  small  balls.  Place  upon 
oiled  tins,  and  set  into  an  oven  to  dry,  leaving  the  door  open. 

WINTERGREEN  LOZENGES. 

Make  similar  to  the  peppermint  lozenges,  substituting 
wintergreen  for  flavoring.  The  quantity  required  depends 
upon  the  strength  of  the  wintergreen  used. 

COCOANUT  BISCUIT. 

Beat  the  white  of  I  egg  into  a  stiff  froth.  Stir  in  1.1 
cups  of  pulverized  sugar  and  all  the  shredded  cocoanut  that 
can  be  worked  in.  Form  into  small  biscuits,  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  heated  oven  until  the  upper  part  of  the  biscuit  is 
a  light-brown  color. 

ALMOND  MACAROONS. 

Take  3  eggs,  I  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  almond  or  pine-nut 
butter.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  into  a  froth,  and  add  a 
little  sugar,  beating  again.  Add  a  little  more  sugar,  beating 
continuously,  and  in  this  manner  put  in  all  the  sugar.  Then 
beat  until  the  mixture  becomes  thick  enough  to  allow  being 
cut  with  a  knife,  like  cake,  after  which  gently  fold  in  the 
almond  meal,  which  is  better  if  the  almonds  are  toasted 
slightly  before  being  ground.  Then  drop  on  buttered  granite 
tins.  Place  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  leave  one  minute,  then 
open  door,  and  let  dry.  A  glazed  surface  can  be  secured  by 
brushing  the  macaroons  with  water. 


CONFECTIONERY.  423 

KISSES. 

Take  |  pound  of  sugar,  6  eggs,  i  pound  of  flour,  i{  cups 
of  almond  meal,  i  pound  of  sifted  flour,  i  grated  nutmeg. 
Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately  into  a  stiff  froth,  add  the 
sugar  to  the  yolks,  and  beat  in;  then  fold  in  the  beaten 
whites,  add  the  aLnond  meal,  nutmeg,  and  flour,  folding  in 
carefully.  Drop  upon  oiled  tins,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

HICKORY-NUT  KISSES. 

Take  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  white  flour, 
i  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  and  \  cup  of  hickory-nut  meats. 
Beat  the  eggs  stiff,  adding  the  sugar  a  little  at  a  time,  and 
beating  ;  then  fold  in  the  nuts  and  flour,  and  drop  in  small 
teaspoonfuls  on  oiled  tins,  and  bake. 

DATE  DAINTIES. 

Select  good  whole  dates,  pick  them  apart  carefully  so  as 
not  to  mash  them,  then  pour  boiling  water  on  them,  shaking 
for  a  minute;  drain,  and  pour  over  them  cold  water,  and  drain 
again.  Then  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  open  one  side  lengthwise, 
and  remove  the  pit,  filling  its  place  with  nut  butter  or  any 
kind  of  nut;  close  it  together,  and  roll  in  pulverized  sugar. 

SALTED  ALMONDS. 

Remove  the  almonds  from  the  shell,  blanch  them,  and 
place  in  the  oven  to  get  thoroughly  dry;  then  to  each  pint  of 
nuts  use  i  tablespoonful  of  nut  oil  of  any  kind  desired,  mix 
well  with  the  nuts  so  that  all  sides  of  the  almonds  may 
become  well  oiled,  then  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  bake  in  the 
oven  until  they  are  very  crisp  and  slightly  browned;  then 
they  are  ready  to  serve. 


4-4  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

SALTED  PINE-NUTS. 

Take  2  cups  of  pine-nuts,  I  tablespoonful  of  pine-nut 
oil  (  or  any  nut  oil  desired ),  mix  well,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
and  put  in  the  oven  to  toast  slightly.  If  desired,  a  little 
sugar  may  be  used  instead  of  the  salt. 

ROASTED  CHESTNUTS. 

Put  some  chestnuts  on  a  roll-baker  in  a  hot  oven,  and 
bake  them  until  the  kernels  are  a  light  brown.  They  can  be 
roasted  on  top  of  a  wood  stove,  if  they  are  carefully  watched 
and  turned  over  to  keep  them  from  scorching.  The  raw 
chestnuts  contain  seventy  per  cent,  of  starch,  and  should  be 
cooked  in  some  way  before  they  are  eaten. 


MENUS. 


A  MISTAKE  that  is  very  common  among  people,  espe- 
cially those  who  are  well-to-do,  is  having  too  great  a 
variety  at  one  meal.  "It  would  be  better  to  eat  only  three 
or  four  different  kinds  of  foods  at  each  meal  than  to  load  the 
stomach  with  many  varieties. "  But  there  should  often  be  a 
change  in  the  menu.  "The  cook  should  tax  her  inventive 
powers  to  vary  the  dishes  she  prepares  for  the  table,  and  the 
stomach  should  not  be  compelled  to  take  the  same  kinds  of 
food  meal  after  meal."  In  order  to  be  proficient  in  her  work, 
the  cook  should  understand  enough  of  physiology  to  be 
informed  upon  all  points  that  pertain  to  digestion,  as  well  as 
upon  the  nutritive  value  of  foods,  their  digestibility,  and  the 
time  each  takes  for  digestion.  If  she  does  not  understand 
these,  she  should  consult  the  Dietetic  Table  in  the  back  part 
of  this  book,  before  making  out  a  menu. 

The  system  requires  from  one  sixth  to  one  seventh  as 
much  albuminous  elements  as  carbonaceous,  and  care  should 
be  taken  to  have  foods  which  contain  these  elements.  For 
example  :  rice  is  nearly  all  starch;  then  when  rice  is  served, 
something  that  has  an  abundance  of  the  albuminous  element 
should  be  served  at  the  same  meal  ;  as  beans,  peas,  or  some 
form  of  nuts. 

Wheat,  and  most  of  the  other  grains,  contain  both  ele- 
ments in  the  right  proportion  ;  also  some  fruits,  as  the 
strawberry,  etc. 

The  combination  of  foods  should  also  be  taken  into 
account  when  preparing  the  menu  ;  but  in  large  families 

[425] 


426  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

perhaps  a  greater  variety  will  need  to  be  prepared,  as  all 
may  not  be  able  to  eat  certain  kinds  of  food.  If  there  are 
those  in  the  family  who  can  not 'eat  vegetables  for  dinner, 
there  should  be  fruits,  and  different  preparations  of  grains,  to 
enable  them  to  make  a  selection. 

Following   are  a  few  breakfast   and  dinner  menus,  which 
may  be  an  aid   to  some   in   preparing  the   menu  :  - 

BREAKFAST  No*   J. 

Breads  :  gems  and  rolls. 

Toast  :  peach  or  apple. 

Grains  :  stewed  rice  with  fig  sauce. 

Fresh  Fruit  :   apples,  peaches,  or  pears. 

Sauce :   apple. 

BREAKFAST  No.  2. 

Breads  :  raised  graham,  white  nut  crisps. 

Fresh  Fruit  :  grapes  or  apples. 

Toast  :  apple. 

Grains  :  graham  mush  cooked  with  apples. 

Cooked  Fruit  :   baked  sweet  apples. 

BREAKFAST  No.  3. 

Breads  :  raised  biscuit,  beaten  biscuit. 
Toast  :  nut  foam  or  nut  gravy. 
Grains  :  rolled  oats  with  nut  milk 
Sauce  :  huckleberry  or  pear. 
Fruit  :  steamed  figs. 

BREAKFAST  No.  4. 

Breads  :  sticks  and  raised  bread. 
Grains  :  grits  with  grape  juice. 
Toast  :  strawberry. 
Fresh  Fruit  :  bananas  or  apples. 
Sauce  :  prune. 


MENUS.  427 


DINNER  No.   J. 


Breads  :  raised  bread  and  rolls. 

Grains  :  pearl  barley  with  nut  milk. 

Vegetables  :  mashed  potatoes  with  nut  gravy,  steamed 

squash  flavored  with  almond  or  pine-nut. 
Nuts  :  nuttosia  stewed,  nut  butter. 

DINNER   No.  2. 

Breads  :  raised  bread  and  zwieola. 

Grains  :  stewed  brown  rice. 

Vegetables:  boiled  potatoes  with  nuttosia  gravy, 
stewed  green  peas  with  almond  or  pine- 
nut  to  flavor,  vegetable  roast. 

Nuts  :  sliced  nuttosia. 

DINNER  No.  3. 

Breads  :  raised  bread  and  sticks. 

Grains  :  farina  with  maple  syrup. 

Vegetables  :  potato  souffle,  baked  sweet  potatoes. 

Nuts  :  deviled  nuts,  nut  butter. 

DINNER  No.  4. 

Soup  :  kidney  bean  with  croutons. 
Breads  :  raised  bread  and  zwieola. 
Vegetables  :  potatoes  stewed  with  nuttosia. 

escalloped  tomatoes. 
Nuts  :  nuttosia  steak. 
Pie  :  pumpkin. 

DINNER  No.  5. 

Soup  :  vegetable  oyster. 

Breads  :  raised  graham  and  rolls. 

Vegetables  :  mashed  potatoes  and  gravy, 

baked  parsnips. 
Nuts  :  nut  roast. 
Dessert  :  cocoanut  or  potato  pie. 


GUIDE    FOR   NUT   COOKERY. 


MENUS   FOR    THOSE  WHO   CAN  NOT  EAT  FRUIT. 

BREAKFAST   No.   J. 

Grains  :  cracked  wheat. 

Toast  :  peanut  gravy. 

Breads  :  graham  rolls,  whole-wheat  gems,  raised  bread. 

Vegetables  :  potato  hash,  macaroni  with  egg  sauce. 

Nut  Foods  :  nut  butter,  malted  caramels. 

Drinks  :  hot  nut  milk,  Brazil-nut  coffee. 

BREAKFAST   No.  2. 

Grains  :  rolled  oats. 

Toast :  lentil. 

Breads  :  raised  biscuit,  cream  crisps,  beaten 

biscuits. 

Vegetables  :  macaroni  cornlet,  baked  squash. 
Nut  Foods  :  stewed  nutmeato,  nut  flakes. 
Drinks  :  hot  nut  milk,  peanut  coffee. 

BREAKFAST   No.  3. 

Toast  :  nut  broth. 

Breads  :  crackers,  rolls. 

Vegetables  :  malted  sweet  potatoes  baked. 

Nut  Foods  :  nutmeato  steak. 

Drinks  :  hot  bouillon,  grain  coffee. 

DINNER   No.    J. 

Soup  :  tomato,  peanut. 

Breads  :  crackers,  raised  breads,  crisps. 

Nut  Foods  :  pecan  sausages,  sliced  nutmeato,  nut  gravy. 

Vegetables  :  mashed  potatoes,  scalloped  tomatoes. 

Drinks  :  hot  milk,  peanut  coffee. 

Dessert :  cream  cake. 


MENUS.  429 

DINNER  No.  2. 

Soup  :  Scotch  pea  soup. 

Grains  :  steamed  browned  rice. 

Nut  Foods  :  nut  butter  with  egg,  nut  fish  baked. 

Vegetables  :  cream  cabbage,  baked  beans, 

mashed  potatoes. 

Breads  :  crackers,  croutons,  raisin  bread,  rolls. 
Drinks  :  walnut  coffee,  hot  cocoanut  milk. 
Dessert  :  custard  pie. 

DINNER  No.  3. 

Soup  :  bouillon. 

Breads  :  croutons,  crisps,  raised  bread. 

Nut  Foods  :  cutlets  of  nuts,  nut  butter,  nut  gravy. 

Vegetables  :  potato  souffle,  baked  egg-plant. 

Drinks  :  hot  peanut  milk,  walnut  coffee. 

Dessert  :   rice  cocoanut  pudding. 

MENUS  FOR  THOSE  WHO  CAN  NOT  EAT 
VEGETABLES. 

BREAKFAST  No.   J. 

Grains  :  corn  meal. 

Toast  :  strawberry. 

Breads  :  rolls,  graham  gems,  crisps. 

Nut  Foods  :  sliced  nutmeato,  nut  butter. 

Fruits  :  stewed  (peach); 

fresh  (pears  and  apples). 
Drinks  :  hot  nut  milk,  peanut  coffee. 

BREAKFAST  No.  2. 

Grains  :  wheaten  grits. 

Toast  :  nut  foam. 

Breads  :  corn-meal  pancakes,  beaten  biscuit, 

graham  rolls. 

Nut  foods  :  sausage,  nut  butter. 
Fruits  :  stewed  (cranberry); 

fresh  (apples,  grapes). 
Drinks  :  hot  hickory  milk,  filbert  coffee, 


430  GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 

BREAKFAST  No.  3. 

Grains  :  steamed  rice  with  fig  sauce 

Toast  :  almond  broth. 

Breads  :   unleavened  biscuit,  raised  bread,  rolls. 

Nut  Foods  :   nut  butter,  fruitosia. 

Fruits  :  stewed  (cherry); 

fresh  (bananas,  plums). 
Drinks  :   hot  nut  milk 

DINNER   No.   I- 

Soups  :   fruit. 

Grains  :  pearl  barley  with  fig  sauce. 

Breads  :  crackers,  crisps,  raised  bread. 

Nut  Foods  :   vegetable  roast,  nut  gravy,  nut  butter. 

Fruits  :  stewed  (strawberry  or  huckleberry); 

fresh  (cherries). , 
Dessert  :  berry  pie. 

DINNER  No.  2. 
Soup  :  lentil. 

Grains  :  granola  with  hot  nut  milk. 
Breads  :  granose  cakes,  croutons,  salt-rising 

bread. 
Nut  Foods  :  mock  veal  loaf,   nut  gravy,   nut 

butter. 
Fruits  :    stewed  (plum); 

fresh  (peaches  and  pears). 
Dessert  :  peanut  cream  cake. 

DINNER  No.  3. 

Soup:   peanut  milk. 

Grains  :  dry  grauose  with  malt. 

Breads  :  croutons,  buns,  raised  bread. 

Nut  Foods:   nut  meato  steak  with  peanut  gravy, 

nut  butter. 
Fruits  :  stewed  (peaches  with  cocoanut  cream); 

fresh  (grapes). 
Dessert  :  apple  pie. 


MENUS.  431 

THANKSGIVING  DINNER. 

The  Thanksgiving  dinner  has  been  a  great  puzzler  to  the 
vegetarian  housewife.  "  How  can  we  ever  celebrate  Thanks- 
giving without  a  turkey  ?  "  has  been  a  question  which  it  has 
been  hard  to  solve.  I  propose  that  we  do  have  a  turkey  for 
Thanksgiving,--  not  the  corpse  of  a  bird  whose  life  was  sac- 
rificed to  satisfy  our  perverted  appetites,  but  something  which, 
although  it  looks  like  a  real  turkey,  with  neck,  wings,  legs, 
and  even  the  drum-stick  bones  protruding,  is  only  one  made 
of  nuts  and  grains.  Then  let  us  have  the  pumpkin  pie, 
chicken  croquettes,  and  fish  all  stuffed  and  baked,  the  salads, 
and  lettuce, --in  fact,  all  that  Thanksgiving  calls  for  ;  but  we 
will  use  only  wholesome  material.  We  will  substitute  nut 
foods  for  the  different  meats,  lemon-juice  will  take  the  place 
of  vinegar,  and  nuts  the  place  of  animal  fats.  With  pains- 
taking, we  shall  have  a  better  dinner  than  our  sisters  who 
have  their  platters  ladened  with  the  remains  of  a  barn-yard 
fowl,  and  with  cakes  and  pies  filled  with  animal  fats  and 
spices.  Besides  this,  we  shall  have  a  clearer  mind,  as  well  as 
a  clear  conscience  ;  while  those  who  eat  meat  are  taking 
poisons  into  the  system  which  benumb  the  brain,  cloud  the 
conscience,  and  render  man  unfit  to  meet  the  vesper  hour 
and  hold  communion  with  his  God. 


432  GUIDE  FOR  NUT  COOKERY. 

THANKSGIVING  DINNER  MENU. 

SOUP. 

Canned-corn  soup,  canned-pea  soup,  or  vegetable  oyster  soup,  seasoned 

with  raw  peanut  cream. 

FISH. 
A  stuffed  baked  trout. 

ENTREE. 

Mock  chicken  croquettes.          Serve  with  it  mock  salmon  salad. 
Stewed  salsify  (vegetable  oyster)  with  cream. 

THANKSGIVING    TURKEY. 

With  the    turkey  send  a  sauce-boat  of  gravy,   sweet   potatoes,    curled 
celery  or  lettuce,   and  cranberry  sauce. 

BREADS. 
Nut  crisps,  nice  buns,  and  cream  rolls. 

PIE. 
Pumpkin  pie  with  cocoanut  cream  crust. 

FRUITS. 
Fresh  fruit,  red-cheeked  apples,  oranges,  and  any  other  fruits  desired. 

NUTS. 
Salted  almonds,  salted  pine-nuts,  and  roasted  chestnuts. 

BEVERAGE. 
Butternut  coffee  with  peanut  cream. 

CHRISTMAS  DINNER. 

Ornament  the  table  with  a  dish  of  ferns  and  carnations. 
The  stems  should  be  long  and  graceful,  and  carelessly  arranged 
in  an  old-fashioned  china  bowl,  or  a  glass  dish  without  feet 
or  stem.  Or  a  pretty  pot-plant  in  full  bloom  makes  a  very 
pretty  centerpiece  set  upon  an  oval-shaped  mat  of  velvet  or 
plush,  the  color  of  which  will  contrast  with  the  color  of  the 
blossoms. 


MENUS.  433 

SOUP. 
Vegetable  oyster  served  with  crackers. 

NUT    LOBSTER. 
Made  of  roasted  pine-nuts. 

CUTLETS    OF    NUTS. 
With  this  course  serve  canned  peas  and  stuffed  tomatoes 

ROAST    VENISON. 

See  directions  for  making  vegetable  roast.      With  this  course   serve  a 
nice  gravy,  currant  or  grape  jelly  in  orange  baskets, 
stuffed  potatoes  and  mock  chicken  salad. 

DRINK. 
Brazil-nut  coffee. 

BREADS. 
Raised  bread  and  buns. 

DESSERT. 
Mince  pie  and  nut  cream  cake. 

FRUIT. 
Bananas,  white  grapes,  oranges,  and  late  pears. 

Recipes  for  these  various  dishes  are  given  in  this  book. 

NOTICE.-- Before  attempting  to  prepare  any  of  the  dishes 
described  in  this  book,  the  reader  is  requested  to  study  the 
articles  on  "Foods"  and  "  Combination  of  Foods,"  as  well  as 
the  articles  on  each  class  of  foods,  and  thus  be  certain  of  the 
highest  success. 


28 


COMPOSITION  OF  FOODS. 


THE  ordinary  food  material,  such  as  breads,  grains,  eggs, 
vegetables,  fruit,  etc. ,  consists  of,  first,  the  refuse,  such 
as  the  shells  of  eggs  and  bran  of  wheat  ;  and  second,  the  edi- 
ble portion,  as  the  yolk  of  the  egg  and  the  Hour  of  wheat. 

In  the  following  table  only  the  edible  portion  is  considered. 
This  consists  of  the  non-nutrients  and  nutrients.  Water, 
refuse,  and  the  salt  of  salted  meats  are  called  non-nutrients  ; 
while  protein,  fats,  carbohydrates,  and  ash  (mineral  matter) 
are  the  nutrients  :  - 

PROTEIN.-- i.  Albuminoids:  albumen  (white  of  egg;  casein 
(curd  of  milk);  myosin,  the  basis  of  muscle  (lean  meat);  gluten 
of  wheat,  etc.  2.  Gelatinoids  :  as  collagen  of  tendons,  ossein 
of  bones  which  yield  gelatin,  or  glue. 

FATS. --Fats  of  meat,  butter,  nuts,  corn,  olive,  etc. 

CARBOHYDRATES.-- Sugar,   starch,  cellulose  (woody  fiber). 

ASH,  OR  MINERAL  MATTER. —  Calcium  phosphate,  or  phos- 
phate of  lime;  sodium  chloride  (common  salt). 

FUEL  VALUE.--  Fuel  value  represents  the  number  of  calo- 
ries of  heat  which  one  pound  of  a  given  material  would  yield 
upon  combustion,  allowance  being  made  for  the  nitrogenous 
products  of  metabolism  of  protein  compounds,  which  are  not 
consumed  in  the  body.  The  fuel  value,  or  potential  energy, 
is  estimated  in  calories.  The  calory  is  the  heat  which  would 
raise  a  kilogram  of  water  one  degree  centigrade  (or  one  pound 
of  water  about  four  degrees  Fahrenheit).  A  foot-ton  is  the 
energy  (power)  which  would  lift  one  ton  one  foot.  One  calory 
corresponds  to  1.53  foot-tons.  A  gram  of  protein  or  carbo- 
hydrates is  assumed  to  yield  4.  i  calories,  and  a  gram  of  fats 
[434] 


COMPOSITION    OF     FOODS.  435 

9.3.  A  pound  of  fats  is  equivalent  in  fuel  value,  on  the  aver- 
age, to  a  little  over  two  pounds  of  protein  or  carbohydrates. 
The  figures  for  fuel  value  (potential  energy)  in  the  table  is 
calculated  by  multiplying  the  number  of  grains  of  protein  and 
of  carbohydrates  in  one  pound  (i  Ib.  :z  453.6  grains)  by  4.  i, 
and  the  number  of  grains  of  fat  by  9.3,  and  taking  the 
sum  of  these  three  products  as  the  number  of  calories  of 
fuel  value  in  a  pound  of  the  material. 

The  average  composition  of  these  compounds  is  about  as 
follows  :  - 

Protein  contains  53  per  cent,  carbon,  7  per  cent,  hydro- 
gen, 24  per  cent,  oxygen,  16  per  cent,  nitrogen. 

Fats  contain  76.5  per  cent,  carbon,  12  per  cent,  hydro- 
gen, 11.5  per  cent,  oxygen,  no  nitrogen. 

Carbohydrates  contain  44  per  cent,  carbon,  6  per  cent. 
hydrogen,  50  per  cent,  oxygen,  no  nitrogen. 

It  is  to  be  noted  that  the  fats  and  carbohydrates  contain 
no  nitrogen,  while  the  protein  does. 

The  albuminoids  and  gelatinoids  are  frequently  classed 
together  as  proteids.  The  term  "proteids'  is  also  used  to 
include  all  the  nitrogenous  ingredients;  i.  c.,  synonomous 
with  protein. 

WAYS  IN  WHICH  MATERIALS  ARE  USED  IN  THE  BODY. 

Proteins  form  tissue  (muscle,  tendon,  etc.),  and  serve  as 
fuel. 

Fats  form  fatty  tissue  (not  muscle,  etc.),  and  serve  as  fuel. 

Carbohydrates  are  transformed  into  fat,  and  serve  as  fuel. 

Alcohol  does  not  form  tissue,  but  does  serve  as  fuel. 

Tea  and  coffee  (thein,  caffein)  do  not  form  tissue,  and  do 
not  serve  as  fuel. 

Extracts  (meat  extracts,  beef  tea)  do  not  form  tissue,  and 
do  not  serve  as  fuel. 


436 


GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


The  following  table  is  taken,  by  permission  of  the  U.  S. 
Department  of  Agriculture,  from  "American  Food  Material," 
by  W.  O.  Atwater.  Ph.  1).,  and  Chas.  D.  Woods,  B.  S.  :  - 

DIETETIC  TABLES. 
COMPOSITION    OK    AMERICAN    FOOD    PRODUCTS. 


KOOD    MATERIAL. 

"c 

<L> 
C    " 

£     >- 

|* 

NUTRIENTS. 

c 

e   £ 
£  i_ 

|£ 

'a 

D 
O 

l£ 

fa 

£z  § 

O    *^ 

~   rs   •- 
-r,   ^  <u 
S  ~  ~ 
U 

c 
<u 

O 

u 
^3   « 

OJ    i—  • 

< 

=»  *J    C 

=    =    <b 
(U     " 

2.S  S 

0  £  C- 
|H 

!•§- 

~  ::  v 
>    0  '% 

^^    ^ 

K    t.  "n 

'l^ 

California  fine   Hour    av   . 

13  8 

12.  I 

ii.  S 

12.  1 

Ii  .4 
12-5 

1  1.  6 
12.5 
12.3 
10.8 

9-7 
10.6 

10-5 
10.8 
10.4 
ii.  7 
10.4 

9-7 

ii.  9 

lo.  S 

"4  3 

12.2 
lO.Q 
12.9 

ii.  4 
ii.  9 

7-2 

7.2 
10.8 

4-3 
12.4 

5^-7 

9-1 
12.7 

79 
14.2 

13-7 
8-5 
13-9 
n-3 

ii.  S 

10.4 
10.7 

10     I 

11.4 

9-4 
11.9 

ii.  7 
11.4 
11.4 
12.3 
iii 

i°-5 
93 
6.1 

6.8 

4.1 
8.9 

8.2 
8.2 

MI  9 

I  I  .2 

10.7 
7.8 

5-° 
9-1 

7-i 

i   4 
1.9 

2.2 
2.O 
2.6 
.  I 
.  I 
.0 
.  I 
.2 

7 

.0 

7 
.6 

2.  I 

2.2 

-4 
•4 

2.2 
.O 
.0 
.0 

-4 

2.2 

4.6 
.6 

7-3 

7-2 

5-2 
5-° 
•  4 
.  i 

7-4 
•9 

76.4 
70.6 

70.3 

75-8 
70.8 
74.6 
75-o 
75-6 
75-4 
74-3 

75-9 
78.6 

74-5 
72.9 

74-5 
73-7 
75-0 
77-6 
72.8 
77-6 
77.2 

74-7 
<S4.  i 
75-1 
74-5 
7^.9 
68.0 
66.8 
7L4 
78.7 
79-° 
41.9 
65.9 

js  s 

•5 

I  .2 
2.O 
1.6 

i-3 

•  5 
•5 
•5 
•5 
3-6 

i-3 
•  4 
1.4 

3  o 
1.6 

I  .0 

•9 

.2 
2.6 

i-3 
1.4 

5-3 
-5 
•  9 
i-3 
.4 
1-9 
i-9 
i-4 
i-3 
•  4 
-3 
8-5 
.8 

86.2 
87.9 

88.2 
87.4 
88.6 

87.5 
88.4 

87.5 
87.7 
89.2 

9°-3 
89.4 
89.5 
89.2 
89.6 
88.3 
89.6 

9°-3 
88.1 
89.2 

85.7 
87  8 
89.1 
87.1 
88.6 
88.1 
92.8 
92.8 
89.2 

95-7 
87.6 

47-3 
90.9 

87-3 

1625 

1  (>(><> 

1655 
I65O 

n,s; 

1645 
1660 
1640 
1650 
1620 

1695 
1680 
1080 
1640 
1685 

1675 
1685 
1710 
1640 
1660 

1590 
1560 
1660 

">55 
1730 
1645 
1860 
1860 

1755 
1875 
1630 

875 
i7°5 
1630 

Entire  wheat  flour       " 

Craham  flour 

Oraharn  flour    Calif     " 

Low-tirade  flour            4' 

Roller  process  flour     ''    

Sprint*  wheat  flour       " 

Winter      " 

Unclassified  flour          "      

Prepared  flour 

Beck's  Breakfastina    

Cerealine  

Crushed  wheat,  av 

Macaroni  and  vermicelli,  av  .  .  .  . 
Rex  wheat      

\Vheat  germ  meal 

Wheatlet         

White  wheat  farina,  av 

Barley  meal 

Barley  pearled 
Buckwheat  flour,          "    
Buckwheat  flour,  self-rising,  av.. 
Buckwheat  farinn,  av 

Corn-meal,  bolted    "      

Corn-meal,  unb'd,  edible  portion 

Oatmeal 

Oats   rolled 

Pop-corn   raw, 

Pop-corn    popped     "        

Rice 

Rice   boiled            

Rice  flour,                 av  

Rye  meal  or  flour     "     

COMPOSITION    OF     FOODS. 


437 


FOOD    MATERIAL. 

c 

<L> 

i.;  <-> 

£  >- 
«£ 

^~ 

NUTRIENTS. 

G 
~    U 

e  o 

"S     !_ 

°£ 

/•. 

l-^H 

e 

<U 
O 

£    V 

rtP-i 
fe 

Carbohy- 
drates. 
Per  cent. 

a 
D 
o 

.      IH 

•G    ? 
'     PLI 

<! 

3   *J    C 
C    c    4) 

5  o 
3  2  fe 

£'5^ 

3-0      ' 

«     C     t/1 

^  §  Ii 

>    0    >- 

—  o.  ° 

V     v.     « 

£   ^ 

BREAD. 
White,  av          ...                 .... 

35-4 
40.0 
38.0 
10.5 

35-7 

9-5 
5-0 

8-5 
9.1 
1  1  .  i 

I  .2 

2.4 
2-7 

.3 

2.4 

52.8 
50-7 

47-3 

79-0 
48.6 

75    I 

I    .   I 

i-9 

3-5 
i  .  i 

2.2 

64.6 
60.0 
62.0 

89-5 
64.3 

75.1 

74-3 
95.0 

IOO.O 

82.8 

88.4 
98.0 

20.5 
6.0 
86.8 
88.9 

31-5 
12.7 

12.4 
ii.  8 

9-7 
ii.  8 

9-2 
5-6 
18.7 
4.0 
7-1 
17.1 
8.9 
7.0 
89.3 
4-9 

12.6 

ii.  4 
16.1 
89.2 

I2O5 

"35 
1  150 

1650 

I2IO 

1395 
1315 
1765 

1860 
1540 

1650 

1825 

365 
105 

159° 
1620 

570 
235 

2IO 
215 

165 
2IO 

175 
85 
360 
70 
130 

275 
145 
130 

1635 

85 
230 
2IO 
228 
1640 

Brown    " 

Corn,  johnny-cake,  av  

Cassava  

Gluten  

SUGARS. 
Honey,  strained,  av    

Molasses                 "         

25.7 

2.7 

68.0 
qt;   o 

3-6 

Su(Tar,  extra  C  &  similar  sugar 

Sue;ar,  granulated  

IOO.O 

Sugar,  maple,  av 

82  8 

STARCHES. 
Tapioca,  av  

ii.  6 

.4 

•  3 

87-5 
98.0 

.2 

Starch,      "  

VEGETABLES. 

Artichokes,  as  purchased,  av.  .  . 
Asparagus     "                           "... 
Beans,  dried              "              "... 
Beans,  lima                             "... 
Beans,    lima  green,  as  purchased 
Beans,  String,  as  purchased,  av 
Beets,  edible  portion,  av  

79-5 
94.0 
13.2 
1  1  .  i 
68.5 

87.3 
87.6 
88.2 

9°-3 
88.2 
90.8 
94-4 

8l.3 
96.0 

92.9 
82.9 
91.1 
78.0 
10.7 
77.1 
87.4 
78.6 

63-9 
10.8 

2.6 

1.8 
22.3 
15.9 
7-1 

I  .2 

1.6 

4.7 

2.  I 
I  .  I 

1.6 
i.4 

2.8 

.8 

I  .2 

3-8 

2.0 
I  .O 
26.O 
I  .  I 
2.O 

1-5 
i-3 

24.1 

2 
2 

1^8 
1.8 
•  7 
.4 
.  I 
I  .  i 
.4 
.4 
.8 
.  i 
i  .  i 

.2 

•  3 

-9 
.  i 

-4 
1-5 
-3 
•  4 
•  4 
•  5 
i  .  i 

16.7 

3-3 

59-  ! 
67.I 

22.  O 

9-4 
9-6 
4-3 
5-8 
9.2 
6.0 
3-0 
14.1 

2-5 

5-1 
8.9 

5-5 
5.o 
58.6 

2.7 
9-5 
8.9 
12.9 
6i.5 

I  .0 

-7 
3-6 
4-1 
1-7 
.7 
i  .  i 

1-7 
i.4 
i    i 

.8 
i  .  i 

•  7 
•  5 
-5 
3-5 
1-3 
.6 

3-2 

.8 

-7 
.6 

i-4 

2-5 

Brussels  Sprouts,  edible  por.  ,  av. 
Cabbage,                              "       " 
Carrots,                       "          "       " 
Cauliflower,  as  purchased  

Celery, 

Corn,  green  (sweet),  edible  por. 
Cucumber,  edible  portion,  av.  .  . 
Eggplant    as  purchased               .  . 

Greens        "                     av 

Kohl  rabi,  "                        "    
Leeks,          "         "       

Lentils,        "          "  

Lettuce,       "         "  

Okra             "          " 

Onions,                    "  av  

Parsnips,      "          "     "    

Peas,  dried,  as  purchased,  av.  .  . 

GUIDE    FOR    NUT    COOKERY. 


FOOD    MATERIAL. 

v 
C  u 

u   _ 
•±   u 

1* 

NUTRIENTS. 

Protein. 
Per  cent. 

II 

u 

</i    i> 

r  «  £M 

Carbohy- 
drates. 
Per  cent. 

1) 

u 

IH 

<~   y 
If)   *-* 

< 

=*    ~   .  C 
-     -    1) 
V     " 

~S  £  £ 

S'S~ 

a-o    • 

_    C    "> 

13  ~  v 

>    0    i- 

_  o-  o 
«J  1_  « 

*  £u 

Peas,  cowpeas,  as  purchased,  av. 
*Peas,  green,  edible  portion    .  . 
Peas,  green,  sugar,  as  purchased. 
Potatoes,  boiled,  av      

13.0 

78.1 

81.8 
73.7 

1.8 

"7.' 
69-3 
93-i 
90.8 

88.9 

92.4 
86.5 

<)4.4 
88.9 
65.1 

92.5 

94.4 
68  .0 

93-6 
95.2 
81.6 
86.1 
79-5 
72.7 
93-7 
75-7 
87.6 

93-1 

'M    1 
91  .8 

85.3 

55  2 

C|l     .<> 

87.6 

75.') 
94.0 

82.0 
85.0 

74.i 

21-3 

4-4 
3-4 
2.7 

7." 
1.8 
i.S 
i  .0 
L4 
1.3 

2.  I 

1.1) 

.8 
L4 
11.7 

.8 
i-5 

6-9 
i  .  i 
i  .  i 

4-6 

3-7 
4.0 

7-0 
1-5 

2.8 

1.6 
i.4 
.7 
i  .  i 

3-6 

1-9 

.8 

•9 
3-6 

I  .2 

•5 
I  .  I 

I  .2 

i.4 

•5 
.4 

2 

35-5 
.  i 

•  7 
.  i 
.  i 

2 

-5 
.6 

.4 

.2 

.4 

.  i 

3-3 
.  I 
.  i 
.  i 

-j 

.2 
.  I 

1.3 

•  4 

60.9 
16.1 

13.7 

22.3 
5°-6 

'5-3 
27.1 

5-2 
6.6 

8-5 
3-1 
10.4 

3-9 

8-7 

21  .O 

5-0 

2.8 

19.7 
3-9 
2-5 
12.5 
9-2 
14.6 

18.5 

3-4 
'9-3 
9.6 

4-5 
3-6 

5-2 

9-8 
4L4 
6.7 
10.5 

18.7 
4.0 

16.6 
13  4 

22.0 

3-4 

•  9 

•  7 
i  .  i 

4-5 
•  7 
i  .  i 
.6 
i  .  i 
i  .  i 

i-9 
•9 
•  5 
.8 
1.8 

-7 

.2 
.  I 

•  3 
.  i 

.2 
.O 

.6 
.6 
•  3 

•9 
.8 
.0 

.2 

.6 
.  i 
.  i 

•  7 
•  5 

•9 
.6 

.4 

•  5 
i  .0 

87.0 

21.9 
18.2 

26.3 

98.2 

17.9 
30.7 

6.9 

9-2 

1  1  .  1 
7.6 
13.5 
5-6 
1  1  .  i 

34-9 

7-5 
5-6 
32.0 

6.4 
4.8 
18.4 

13.9 

20.5 

27.3 
6.3 
24-3 
12.4 

6.9 
5-6 

8.2 

14.7 

44-8 

8.4 
12.4 
24.1 
6.0 

18.0 
15-0 
25-9 

1590 

400 
335 
475 
2580 

325 
565 
1  20 

155 
190 

120 

245 
I05 

'95 
625 

1  IO 

85 

665 

95 
70 
320 
240 
360 
480 

95 
465 
225 
no 

85 
130 

255 
820 

150 

235 
455 
105 

340 
270 
480 

Potato  chips,  fried,  as  purchased 
Potatoes,  raw,  as  purchased  .... 
Potatoes,  sweet,  edible  portion.. 
Pumpkins,  edible  portion,  av.  .  . 
Radishes,        "           " 
Rutabaga,       " 
Spinach,  as  purchased  

Squash,  edible  portion,  av  
Tomato   as  purchased,    u 

Turnips,  edible  portion,  "    
Yeast,  as  purchased  

VEGETABLES,  CANNED. 
Artichokes,  av  

Asparagus     "  .        

Beans  and  Pork,  baked,  av  

Beans   string,  av            

Beans,  French  string  haricot  verts 
Beans,  Fr.  st'g  haricot  flageolets. 
Beans,  Fr.  st'g  haricot  panaches 

Beans,  shelled  

Brussels  sprouts     

Corn     green,   av    

Corn  and  tomatoes,  av 

"fMacedoine                " 

Okra                              " 

.  i 
•  3 

2 

.4 

.2 

•  5 
•  9 

.2 
•5 

Okra  and   tomato,     "          

Peas    trreen.                " 

Potatoes  sweet,          "  

Pumpkin                      "       

Succotash                    tl       

FRUIT,  FRESH. 
Apples   edible  portion    av 

Bananas,  vellow.  av.. 

.8 

*Refuse,  pods. 


f  A  mixture  of  young  vegetables. 


COMPOSITION    OF    FOODS. 


439 


FOOD    MATERIAL. 

c 

<L> 
U     <-> 
<L>      VH 

"      1) 

s& 

NUTRIENTS. 

c 
d  % 

C     !_ 

°£ 

*—  i 

c 

OJ 

u 

«   <u 

«  Cu 

UH 

Carbohy- 
drates. 
Per  cent. 

c 

<L> 
0 
I* 

i-'    U 

•%P~ 
< 

=»  *J  e 
=  £S 

5  S  ft 
,o  'Cpn 

s-a    • 

•i§.s 
-S.8 

«   u   rt 
[S   &<-> 

JH     P-i 

Blackberries,  av 

88.9 

86.1 
25.6 
88.5 

79-1 
78.8 

89.3 

•9 
i  .  i 

.4 
•  5 
1-5 
i.3 

I  .0 

2.  I 
.8 

.6 

•  7 

1-7 
•  9 

7-5 
n.  4 

72.5 

10.  I 

18.8 
17.7 
8-3 
9-8 
9-3 
!5-9 
9-7 
14.2 

9-7 

20.  I 

18.5 
12.6 

6.8 
6-5 
13.5 

57-6 
63.3 
65.7 
70.4 
70.0 
60.5 
68.9 
74-7 

54-4 
56.4 
I3.o 
5-3 
36.4 

8.5 

44-9 
8.1 

31-5 
1  1  .  i 
n.  7 
24.4 
8.9 

.6 
.6 
-9 

.2 

.6 
•  5 
•  5 

II.  i 

'3-9 

74-4 

"•5 

20.9 

21  .2 

10.7 
9.8 

245 
265 
1380 
225 
380 

425 

2IO 

Cherries,  edible  portion   

Citron  melons,  dried  

Cranberries,  av  

Figs   fresh  

Grapes,  edible  portion 

Lemons,      "           "         av    .... 

Lemon-juice 

Muskmelons,    edible  portion.  .  .. 
Nectarines,                          "        ... 
Oranges,                "           " 
Pears,                      "            " 
Pineapples,                          " 
Plums,                    "            " 
Prunes,  fresh,       "            " 
Raspberries    ... 

80.5 
82.9 
88.3 

83.9 
89.3 
78.4 
80.2 
85.8 
90.9 
92.9 
82.4 

36.2 

32.4 
27.9 

20.8 

22.5 

34-8 
26.4 
14.0 

42.4 
40.0 

85.3 
93-7 
61.8 

6.3 
38.5 
46.6 

3-5 
48.0 

7-5 
9-2 
44-5 

.6 
.6 
.8 
.6 

.4 

I  .0 

.8 

I  .0 
I  .0 

-3 

•  7 

1.4 

2-9 
I  .2 
2.2 

5-1 
2-9 
2.4 
2-5 

.3 
.8 
.6 

•  5 
.4 

23-7 
6-9 
5-5 
6.3 
8.4 
24-5 
25-8 
12.5 

.... 

.6 
.6 
.6 

•  5 
•  3 
•  5 
-5 
.6 
.6 

.2 

-4 

1.8 
1.4 

2.2 

1-5 

2.4 

I  .2 

i.5 
4-1 

•  5 
•  7 
•  4 
.3 
.7 

3-0 

•  7 

.0 

•  3 

•  5 
.8 

2.O 
L7 

10.5 
17.1 
ii.  7 
16.1 
10.7 

21.6 

19.8 
14-2 
9-1 
7.i 
17.6 

63.8 
67.6 
72.1 
79-2 

77-5 
65.2 

73-6 
86.0 

57-6 
60.0 

H.7 
6-3 
38.2 

87-5 
61.5 

50-5 
96.5 

49-5 
88.0 

90.8 
54.7 

185 

305 
220 
310 
2OO 

390 
360 

255 

'75 
130 

39° 

1225 
1230 
1370 
1565 

1395 
1205 

1360 
i635 

1  1  20 
1150 
280 
i'5 
715 

2840 
1300 

1705 
3125 

1565 
2780 
2560 
1720 

.6 
.8 
•  3 

Strawberries,  edible  portion,  av. 
Watermelons,       "          "     

.7 
.  i 

3-0 
3-0 

Whortleberries  

FRUIT,  DRIED. 
Apples  dried,  av 

Apricots,  dried,  av 

Currants,  Zante,  dried  

3-0 
5-1 

Dates,  edible  portion    

Figs,  as  purchased,  av 

Grapes,  ground,  dried  
Prunes,  edible  portion,  av  
Raisins,  as  purchased,  av 

.6 
.8 
4-7 

2.4 

2.  I 

•  7 

2 

.7 

53-2 
8.0 

35-9 
57-4 
28.5 
50.0 
38.6 
31.6 

FRUIT,  CANNED. 
Apples,  crab         

Blackberries  

Blueberries,    av      

Peaches,  as  purchased  

Pineapples,                      

NUTS. 
Almonds  

Chestnut,  fresh,  peeled    

Cocoanut,  fresh. 

Cocoanut,  prepared,  av  
Filberts      

Groundnut,  peeled    

Peanuts,  edible  portion,  av  .  .  .  . 

Walnut,    peeled 

INDEX, 


PAGE. 

Almonds ,7. 

to  blanch 415 

to  salt. 418 

malted 137 

Almond  butter 71 

meal 77 

Apple  cutlets 225 

Apple  sauce,  baked 345 

Apples,  fresh i  <)S 

baked,  and    butter 242 

baked,  malted 140 

baked 224 

cream  sauce 344 

custard  pie 323 

dried 225 

"    and  raisins 227 

dried,  pie 323 

dried,    toast 393 

dumpling 337 

foam 3.i>) 

foam    toast : 392 

for  canning 220 

jelly 24^ 

pudding 337 

roly-poly ,     33S 

shortcake 177 

snow  filling 350 

sweet,  baked .    222 

to  serve 210 

toast 391 

water 401 

Asparagus 262 

gravy. .312 

soup 295 

toast 392 

with  egg  sauce 263 

[440] 


PAGE. 

sparagus  with  gravy 262 

with  nut  cream 262 

with  soups 263 

Mariana  foam  toast 392 

toast 392 

Bananas 1 98 

and  oranges 211 

baked 223 

to  serve 211 

Barley ....    147 

Beans,  shelled 286 

shelled,  warmed  up 286 

string 285 

string,  to  can 285 

siting,  with  egg 285 

Beets,   baked 265 

boiled 265 

chopped 265 

greens 266 

Beechnuts 1 1 

Beef,  mock  chip 127 

Biscuit,  beaten 161 

Parker  House i  74 

raised 174 

unleavened 166 

Blackberries,  to   serve 209 

Blanching   nuts 415-416 

almonds 415 

butternuts 416 

filberts 415 

peanuts 415 

walnuts 416 

Brazil-nuts,  history  of 15 

malted 137 

Breads 172 


INDEX. 


441 


Bread,  apple  short  cake 177 

breakfast  buns 175 

brown 172 

"  steamed 172 

chestnut 173 

corn,  with  eggs 191 

dressing 119 

graham 1 70 

"  steamed 171 

mush 173 

raised  cannclons 178 

salt  rising 171 

unleavened 156 

yeast,  steamed 173 

Buns,  breakfast 175 

steamed 175 

very  fine 176 

Cabbage 269 

baked 270 

boiled 269 

chopped 270 

soup 299 

stuffed. .  .  271 

Cake 354-375 

almond 356 

apple  shortcake 177 

chestnut 373 

chestnut  dainty 373 

chestnut  fi  uit. 373 

chestnut  sweet  souffle 374 

chocolate 358 

cocoanut,  No.  1 357 

cocoanut,  No.  2. 357 

cocoanut  cookies 358 

cocoanut  cream 371 

cocoanut  cream 359 

cocoanut  cream  paste 358 

cocoanut-oil 364 

cocoanut-oil  cookies 365 

cocoanut  wafers 358 

cream  puffs 374 

date  cookies 374 


Cake,  date  drop  

-.   374 

family  

359 

fruit  

359 

fruit,  without  eggs 

360 

gold.  

36i 

hickory  cream  

372 

honey  

360 

honey,  with  eggs  

360 

lady  biscuits.  

36i 

lemon  

36i 

malt  

362 

marble  

363 

meringues  

363 

nut  and  fruit  

366 

nut  

365 

nut  cream  cookies.      .  . 

372 

nut  cup  

365 

nutmeato  

363 

raised  

.    ...   366 

raw  peanut  cream.    .  .  . 

367 

rice  

367 

rice    cup  

367 

sea  foam.  

368 

shortcake  

176 

snow  

369 

sponge     

...  368 

sweetmeat  rolls  

369 

Washington  wedding.  . 

37i 

watermelon  

....     369 

yeast  

....   370 

Pancakes  

'92 

popovers.  

193 

potato  

....        193 

raised  corn  -meal    

,     I76 

rice  

....     192 

yeast  

193 

Canning  corn  

283 

Canned  green  peas  

250 

Canned  fruit  

213-221 

apples  

22O 

blackberries  

217 

cherries  

.     217 

grapes  

.     2I9 

442 


INDEX. 


Canned  fruit,  huckleberries 217 

peaches 218 

pears 218 

plums 219 

raspberries 216 

strawberries 215 

sweet  apples  and  quinces 220 

tomatoes 280 

Canned  fruit  pie 327 

Canned  pumpkin 221 

squash 221 

Carrots,   boiled 260 

Cashew  nut 16 

Castanopsis 1 7 

Cauliflower,  baked 271 

Celery 274 

cold  cooked 274 

curled 274 

gravy 312 

soup 299 

toast 392 

with  gravy 274 

Cherries 1 99 

to  can 217 

Cherry  pie 325 

water 401 

Chestnut iS 

bread 173 

pie 330 

soups 297 

with   raisins 408 

Chicken   legs 103 

Chufa  (earth  almond) 22 

coffee 382 

cream  pie  crust 32 

milk 74 

Cocoanut  biscuit 422 

Cocoanut 23 

cream  pie  crust 322 

cream  caramels 420 

milk 74 

pie  crust 320 

pie 325 


Cocoanut  puddings 335 

sauce 345 

Confectionery 419-424 

almond  creams 421 

almond  macaroons 422 

chocolate  drops 421 

cocoanut  biscuit 422 

cocoanut  creatn  caramels 420 

cream  nuts 420 

date   dainties 423 

hickory-nut  kisses 423 

honey  caramels 420 

kisses 423 

peanut  candy 419 

peanut  cream  caramels 420 

peppermint  lo/.enges 421 

roasted  chestnuts 424 

salted  almonds 423 

salted  pine-nuts 424 

taffy 419 

wintergreen  lozenges 422 

Corn    gems 138 

bread  with  eggs 191 

meal  gruel 403 

meal  walnuts 152 

mush 151 

pepper 284 

puffs 160 

starch  pie 324 

stewed 281 

succotash 282 

Corn,  baked,   Nos.   I,  2 282 

baked  with  oyster 282 

capped 284 

dried 283 

"      cooked 284 

green,  on  cob 281 

sweet,  with  cocoanut  milk 284 

to  can 283 

to  cook  dried  corn 284 

Cooked    fruit 222-224 

Crackers 188 

fruit,  No.  I 190 


INDEX. 


443 


Crackers,  fruit,  No.  2 190 

graham 189 

oatmeal,  Nos.  1-3 189 

white,  No.    1 188 

white,  No.   2 188 

Cranberries 199 

Cranberry 234,  346 

and  sago  jelly 4°7 

pie 324 

pudding 34° 

toast 392 

Cream,  malted 138 

peanut 72 

raw  peanut 72 

Crisps,  nut,  Nos.  I,  2 165 

croquettes,  mock  chicken  ....    120 

croutons I91 

hickory-nut 165 

Cucumbers 276 

and   tapioca  soup 299 

escalloped 276 

salad 276 

Currant  water 401 

Currant 235 

Currants 199 

to  serve 209 

Dates,  description  of 200 

Dietetic  tables 436-439 

Dinner,  Thanksgiving 431 

Christmas 432 

Drinks 381-383 

Brazil-nut  coffee 383 

butternut  coffee 383 

cereal  coffee 382 

chufa  coffee 382 

peanut  and  cereal  coffee 382 

peanut  coffee,  No.  i 382 

peanut  coffee,  No.  2 382 

walnut  coffee 383 

Eggplant 263 

baked,  Nos.  1,2 263 


Eggplant,  escalloped 264 

stuffed 264 

Figs,  description  of 201 

Filbert,  or  hazelnut 26 

malted 138 

Fillings 350-353 

almond 35° 

apple,  snow 350 

chocolate  cream 35 r 

chocolate,  Nos.  1,2 351 

corn-starch 351 

cranberry 35° 

fig 352 

lemon. 352 

peach 353 

peanut,  Nos.  1,2 352 

walnut 353 

Fish,  mock in 

balls,   mock 115 

Foods 59,  60 

a  perfect  diet 61 

bad   combinations  of 62 

combination  of 61 

table  of  combinations  of 63 

composition  of 434 

Food  for  the  sick 400  410 

Drink 4°° 

a  refreshing  drink 400 

almond  milk 4°° 

apple  water 401 

berry  water 401 

cherry  water 401 

currant  water 4O1 

cold  lemonade 402 

hot  lemonade 402 

hot  water 402 

pineappleade 403 

rice  water 403 

slippery-elm  tea 403 

Fruit 406 

baked  pears 406 

baked  sour  apples 406 


444 


INDEX. 


Fruit,  baked  sweet  apples 406 

cranberry  and  sago  jelly 407 

stewed  prunes 407 

tapioca  jelly 407 

Gruels i1  > ; 

almond  gluten 404 

corn-meal 403 

gluten  egg 404 

gluten  gruel  with  raisins.  ....    405 

graham 404 

ground  rice 404 

nut 405 

oatmeal 405 

plain  gluten 404 

white  flour 405 

Miscellaneous 408 

bread  for  the  sick  ....    408 

chestnuts  with  raisins 408 

egg  nog  Nos.  i,  2 409 

fruit  egg  nog 410 

lemon  egg-nog 410 

malt 408 

orange  egg-nog 409 

other  foods  for  the  sick 410 

snow  egg-nog 410 

stewed  chestnuts 408 

Fruit 194-212 

fresh 208 

Fruit,  dried 225-227 

apples  and  raisins 227 

prunes 226 

prune  purc'e 226 

prune  souffle- 226 

to  cook 225 

Fruit  juices 228-232 

blackberry  wine 230 

cherry  wine 231 

currant  wine ~  .  .    231 

grape  wine 228 

huckleberry  wine 230 

mulberry  wine 232 

plum  wine 231 

quince  wine 231 


Fruit  juices,  raspberry  wine 230 

strawberry  wine 229 

sweet  apple  wine 232 

Fruitosia  Nos.  1-4 99 

Frutose 98 

Gems,    malt 139 

corn 158 

filbert 159 

graham 157 

milk 161 

raw  peanut  butter 157 

Sally  Lunn 158 

sweet  potato 161 

water 157 

whole-wheat 158 

Gluten 166 

Gooseberries 202 

Granose  with  honey 191 

Grains,  recipes  for  cooking.  .  .  .  143-153 

barley 147 

browned  mush 153 

corn 151 

corn-meal  and  walnuts 152 

corn    mush 151 

cracked  wheat 144 

cracked  wheat  and  nuts 145 

farina 146 

graham   grits 145 

graham  grits,  to  cook 146 

graham  mush 1.45 

hominy  and  nuts 152 

macaroni 149 

macaroni  with  corn 150 

macaroni  with  egg  sauce 150 

macaroni  with  nutmeato 151 

macaroni  with  tomato  sauce.  .    150 

macaroni  with  zwieola 150 

nut  hash .  „    153 

oats 146 

oatmeal  gruel. 147 

oatmeal  mush 146 

peanuts  and  hominy 153 

pearl  barley  and  nuts 147 


INDEX. 


445 


Grains,  pop-corn 152 

rice 148 

rice,  browned 148 

rice  sou  ill  t',  browned 148 

rice,  golden 149 

rice,  steamed 148 

rolled  wheat 145 

rye .  .  149 

rye  mush 149 

Grape  apple 242 

Grapes,  description  of 201 

to  serve 210 

Gravies  for  vegetables  and    toasts 


almond  cream 311 

asparagus 312 

celery 312 

egg .312 

hard-boiled  egg 312 

hickory  nut 316 

lentil 313 

mock  milk 315 

nut,  Nos.    i,2 311 

nutmeato 313 

onion 313 

parched  corn 314 

parsley 313 

pecan 316 

pecan  gravy  with  eggs 315 

pea 313 

raw  peanut  milk 315 

roasted  almond 316 

roasted  pine  nut 316 

to  brown  flour 311 

tomato 314 

tomato  nut 315 

Greens,  dandelion 268 

Groundnut 30 

Hash,  baked  nutmeatc 94 

Hickory-nut 30 

Huckleberries,  description  of 202 

to  serve 209 


Icing 376 

almond  frosting 379 

boiled 379 

chocolate 377 

confectioner's 376 

frosting  without  eggs 379 

green 378 

hard  or  plain 376 

lemon 377 

orange,  No.  I 377 

orange,  No.  2 377 

plain  for  cake 378 

quickly  made 380 

rose 378 

yellow   frosting 378 

Ice-cream 41 1-414 

almond 412 

fruit 411 

Nos.  1-3 411 

nut 412 

hickory 412 

peanut  milk 412 

pine-nut  milk 413 

Ices 413-415 

lemon 413 

orange 413 

pineapple 414 

sherbet,  Nos.  1,2 414 

Jellies 233-240 

apple . .   234 

blackberry  and  mulberry 236 

cranberry 234 

currant 335 

gooseberry 239 

grape .237 

huckleberry 238 

lemon 240 

orange  baskets 240 

peach 337 

pear 238 

pineapple 239 

quince 235 


446 


INDEX. 


Jelly,  raspbe  rry 236 

strawberry 238 

sweet-apple 236 

tomato 240 

Jellied    oranges 242 

Kneader,  nut-butter  mill  as  a 156 

Legumes 246.  252 

baked  beans 2411 

baked  Lima  beans 248 

baked  peanuts   252 

baked  sifted  lentils 25  i 

baked  split  peas 250 

bean  omelet 247 

boiled  peanuts 25  I 

canned   green    peas  with   nut- 

meato 250 

kidney-bean  toast 249 

malted  baked  beans 247 

mashed  beans  and  potatoes. .  .  248 

mashed  peanuts  with  tomatoes.  252 

nutmeatose  and  beans 247 

pea  and   pecan  puree 252 

pea  puree 252 

peas  baked  with  nutmeato.  .  .  .  249 

savory  lentils 120,  251 

sifted  lentils 251 

sifted  peas 249 

stewed  beans 246 

stewed   kidney-beans 249 

stewed  Lima  beans 248 

stewed  split  peas 250 

vegetable  roast 251 

vegetable  turkey 250 

Lettuce 273 

salad 274 

with  cream 273 

Lemons,  description  of 203 

Lentil,  savory 120 

Litchi  (Leechee  nut) 36 

Limes 203 


Macaroni  with  nutmeato 94 

Malt  food 139 

Malt  extract. 134 

Malted   almonds 137 

Malted  nut  caramels  Nos.  1-6.  .  .  .  135 

Meal 76 

almond 77 

butternut 78 

filbert 77 

hickory-nut 78 

peanut,   Nos.  I,  2 '.....  76 

pecan-nut 78 

pine  nut 77 

walnut 77 

Melons,  description  of 204 

Menus 425-435 

Milk,    almond 73 

chufa 74 

cocoanut. 74 

hickory-nut 73 

peanut 72 

pine-nut 74 

raw  peanut 72 

Muffins,  corn-meal 160 

Nut  butter 7°~75 

almond 71 

Brazil 72 

peanut 70 

raw  peanut 71 

egg 124 

malted 135 

for  table 100 

Nuts,    their    properties    and    food 

values 64 

Nut  cheese 90 

Nut  cheese  nest 120 

Nutgrano   Nos.    i-io 95 

Nutmeatose  Nos.    1-7 97 

Nut  oil  Nos.  1-4 82 

malted 139 

Nutmeato 91-129 

and  potato  stew 93 


INDEX. 


44; 


Nutmeato,  cutlets  of  potato 125 

gravy 94 

hash 93 

Nos.  1-6 91 

stew 93 

steak 94 

toast  Nos    1,2 92 

with  macaroni 94 

with   rice 94 

Nutora 85-89 

almond,  Nos.  1,2 88 

banana 89 

onion 88 

peanuts 85 

peanut  and  almond 86 

peanut  and  pine-nut 86 

peanut  and  eggs 86 

peanut  and  starch 85 

pecan 89 

pine  nut,  Nos.  1-3 87 

prune 89 

tomato 88 

Nut  flakes,  malted 137 

Nut   lobster 107 

Nut  meal 76 

malted 137 

Nuts,  deviled,  Nos.  1,2 1 18 

Oranges,  description  of 204 

to  serve 211 

Onions 272 

baked 273 

escalloped 272 

stewed 272 

Oysters,  mock,  fried 124 

Parsnips 259 

baked 259 

fried 259 

with  egg  sauce 259 

Patties 126-128 

green  pea 127 

mock  oyster 126 


Patties,  nutmeato 127 

Peaches,  description  of 205 

baked 223 

to  serve 210 

Pears 206 

baked 223 

to  serve 210 

Peas,  green 285-287 

baked 287 

boiled  green 286 

green  peas  and  egg 287 

Peanuts,  description  of 37 

Pecans,  description  of 42 

Pieplant 207 

Pineapples 204 

to  serve 211 

Prunes 205 

Plums 205 

to  serve 209 

Pies 320-332 

almond  cream 322 

almond  meal  pie  crust 320 

apple  custard 323 

banana 323 

canned  fruit 327 

chestnut 330 

chocolate  custard 325 

cherry 325 

chufa  cream  pie  crust 321 

citron 324 

cocoanut 325 

cocoanut  cream  pie  crust 322 

cocoanut  pie  crust 320 

corn-starch 324 

cranberry 324 

custard 325 

date  and  lemon 326 

dried  apple „  .  323 

egg  mince 326 

fresh  fruit 326 

green  tomato 33 1 

ground-cherry 327 

mince,  with  dates 327 


INDEX. 


Pies,  mince  filling 327 

Mrs.  B.'s  pie  crust 328 

nutcoa  pie  crust 321 

nutcoa  tart  paste 321 

nut  cream 328 

one-crust  apple 323 

orange 328 

peach 328 

peanut  meal  pie  crust 320 

pecan  or  hickory  nut  pie  crust  321 

pineapple 329 

pine-nut  pie  crust 322 

potato,  Nos.  1,2 330 

prune 329 

pumpkin 329 

raw  nut  butter  pie  crust 320 

raw  peanut  cream  pie  crust. .  .    322 

squash 330 

summer  squash 331 

Tarts  (bow  knots) 332 

tomato 331 

watermelon 332 

whortleberry  or  huckleberry.  .    331 
zwieback 332 

Pine-nut 47 

malted 138 

Potatoes 254-258 

boiled  ia  jackets 255 

browned 258 

cutlets   of 125 

escalloped 256 

mashed 257 

picnic 258 

balls 259 

puffs 256 

souffle 256 

stewed  with  celery 256 

stuffed 257 

sweet,  escalloped 258 

sweet,   malted 139 

sweet  pone 140 

warmed-over 256 

young 258 


Puddings  .  . .333-341 

apple  du.upliiig 337 

apple  foam 339 

apple  roly  poly 338 

bread 336 

carrot,  Nos.    I,  2 338 

cocoanut,  Nos.   i,  2 335 

cranberry  tapioca 340 

custard,  No.  I .' 333 

custard,  No.  2 333 

escalloped    apples 339 

floating  island 339 

fairy 340 

green  corn . . 336 

fig 337 

Indian 334 

lemon 338 

mother's 336 

poor  man's  rice 334 

prune 333 

queen 334 

steamed  apple 337 

surprise  dessert 341 

surprise 340 

tapioca,  Nos.    1,2 335 

tapioca,  and   nuts 340 

Puffs,    cream 1 59 

delicate 159 

corn. 1 60 

graham 161 

whole- wheat 160 

Ouinces,  description  of 206 

baked 224 

Radishes 269 

baked 269 

cooked 269 

Raspberries,  description  of 206 

to  serve 209 

Rice  with  nutmeato 94 

Roast,  crystal  wheat 119 

vegetable  nut 1 16 


INDEX. 


449 


Roast  turkey 104 

red  bean 119 

goose 101 

mock  nutmeato 93 

Rolls,  raw  butter.  No    I 162 

Nos.  1-8 163 

nut 164 

raised  potato 175 

Salads 384-388 

artichoke 386 

beet 388 

lettuce 384 

mock   chicken 386 

mock  salmon 385 

nutmeatose,  No.  I 384 

nutmeatose,  No.  2 385 

nutora,  No.  2 388 

dressing 384 

tomato 387 

turnip 387 

watercress 385 

Salting  nuts 417,  418 

almonds,  No.   1,2 418 

filberts 418 

peanuts,  No.  i,  2 417 

pine-nuts 418 

walnuts,  hickory-nuts,  pecans, 
butternuts,  etc 418 

Salsify  or  vegetable  oysters 260 

escalloped 260 

with  egg  sauce 260 

Salmon 1 18 

escalloped,  mock 119 

mock 118 

Sandwiches  ...    183-187 

butternut 187 

date  or  fig 1 83 

egg 186 

green 187 

hot  apple 187 

nut  butter 183 

nutmeato  and  egg 185 

nutmeato 186 

29 


Sandwiches,  nutora 186 

rolled  cabbage 184 

rolled  nut-butter 183 

rolled  nutmeato 185 

sweet  nut 185 

Sausages 79^8i 

filbert 80 

hickory-nut 79 

pecan     80 

peanut 79 

pine-nut 79 

Sauce  for  baked  fish 112 

Sapucaia-nut 45 

Souari-nut 45 

Sauces  for  puddings 344-349 

almond  cream 344 

almond 344 

apple 344 

baked  apple 345 

banana  foam 345 

boiled 345 

cocoanut 345 

cranberry 346 

fig 346 

fruit  juice 34^ 

lemon 34^ 

lemon  syrup 347 

maple  sugar 348 

nut  cream 348 

orange. 348 

orange  syrup 347 

pineapple 349 

plain  nut 349 

plain 348 

strawberry  foam 349 

strawberry 349 

Sticks 165 

nut 165 

Strawberries,  description  of 207 

fresh  209 

Strawberry  flitters 243 

Soup  290-308 

almond,  Nos.  i,  2 294 


450 


INDEX. 


Soup,    asparagus 295 

bean 296 

bean,    dried 295 

beet 296 

bouillon,  nut  broth 292 

Brazil-nut. 297 

cabbage 299 

carrot 297 

celery 299 

chestnut 297 

clear  tomato 3°5 

cream 297 

cream  de  potiron 299 

cucumber  and  tapioca 299 

Danish 3O1 

dried  corn 3°° 

egg  and  potato 301 

egg  balls 291 

green  corn 3°° 

hygienic   dumplings 291 

kidney  bean 296 

la  Royal,  served  in 290 

lentil 301 

lettuce 3°2 

noodles  for 292 

nut  barley 3°2 

nutmeatose  balls 290 

oatmeal 3°2 

onion,  No.  i 3°2 

onion,  No.  2 3°3 

oysters  and  dumplings 179 

parsnip 3°4 

pea 3°3 

peanut,  No.  i 3°3 

peanut,  No.  2 304 

tomato 3°4 

plain 3°3 

plain   dumplings 290 

pot  au  feu 3°8 

raw  peanut   milk 3°4 

squash 3°5 

string  bean 296 

tomato  celery 3°5 


Soup,   tomato   nutmeatose  .......   3°5 

tomato,  Nos.  i,  2  ............   306 

turnip  .....................   3°6 

vegetable  broth  .............    3°S 

vegetable,  Nos.  i,  2  .........   307 

vegetable  oyster  ............    307 

vermicelli  and  oyster  ........   307 

walnut  balls  for  .............    291 

zwieola   dumplings  .........    293 

Spinach  on  toast  ................    266 

Squash  ........................    275 

baked  ......................   276 

summer  ....................   275 

summer,  with  egg  sauce  .....    275 

steamed  ...................    275 

winter  .....................    275 


Toast  ......................    39! 

apple  foam  ................. 

apple  ..................... 

asparagus  .................. 

banana  foam  ............... 

banana  .................... 

celery  ..................... 

cranberry  .................. 

date  ....................... 

dried   apple  ............... 

dry  butter  .................. 

egg  ....................... 

fig  ....................... 

French  .................... 

fruit  .................  ...... 


gravy 

lemon 

lentil 

malt 

nut-butter 

nut   foam 

parched  almond  broth 

peach 

prune 

raisin 

sunshine.  . 


399 
392 

391 

392 

392 

392 

392 

392 

393 

393 

399 

393 

394 

398 

395 

394 

395 

395 

396 

39° 

396 

398 

396 
397 
397 


INDEX. 


451 


Toast,  tomato,  No.  I 397 

tomato,  No.  2 398 

Tomato 277-280 

.  baked 279 

canned 280 

dried 280 

escalloped 278 

sliced 277 

stewed 277 

stuffed,  Nos.  i ,  2 278 

Tomatoes 207 

description  of 277 

Turkey,  mock 112 

legs •  103 

Turnips  and  rutabagas 261 

cooked  rutabagas 262 

mashed  turnips 261 


Turnips  with  egg  sauce 261 

Trout,  baked 107 

Vegetables 253 

Vegetable  oysters 260 

Walnuts 49 

malted 138 

Water  chestnut 57 

Waffles,  raised-batter 160 

Yeast,  hop 168 

potato 168 

fruit. 168 

Zwieback 165 

Zwieola,  how  to  make 399 

Zwieola  and   hot  cream 192 


Our  Favorite  Family 
Nut  Grinding  Mill. 


Hakes  Fine 
Nut  Butter 


1 


WE   MANUFACTURE 


Nut  Grinders 


AND 


Blanchers 


ALSO 


Peanut 
Roasters 


To  Operate 
By  Hand  and  Power. 


The  Grinder  represented 
above  is  a  splendid  utensil 
for  grinding  nuts  into  but- 
ter. Designed  especially  for 
home  use. 


A  Full  Equipment  for  Prepar- 
ing Nut  Foods. 


We  have  for  sale  a  large  stock  of  all  kinds  of 
nuts,  shelled  and  unshelled.  We  also  make  a 
fine  variety  of  


NUT  FOODS 


e) 


For  further  information.  Descriptive  Illus- 
trated Catalogue,  and  Price-List,  address  — 

JOSEPH  LAMBERT  &  CO., 


Battle  Creek,  Mich. 


s*^^s^J 


:s  13  r. 


