LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS. 


%Hi. 


V^r 


'",- 


Shelf 


,Vl, 


UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


GULF  CITY 


COOK  BOOK 


COMPILED    BY 


The  Ladies  of  the  St.  Francis  Street 
METHODIST  EPISCOPAL  CHURCH,  SOUTH, 

MOBILE,  ALABAMA. 


"We  may  live  without  poetry,  music,  rind  art; 
We  may  live  without  conscience,  and  live  without  heart; 


We  may  live  without  friends;  we  may  live  without  books; 


S 


But  civilized  man  can  not  live  without  cooks. 
He  may  live  without  books, — what  is  knowledge  but  grieving? 
He  may  live  without  hope, — what  is  hope  but  deceiving? 
He  may  live  without  love, — what  is  passion  but   pining? 
But  where  is  the  man  that  can  live  without  dining?" 

— Lucile. 


dayton,  ohio: 

United  Brethren   Publishing  House. 

1878. 


K 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1878,  by  the 

Ladies  of  the  St.  Francis  Street  M.  E.  Church,  South,  Mobile,  Alabama, 

In  the  Office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Washington. 


Stereotyped,  Printed,  and  Bound  at  the 

United   Brethren   Publishing   House, 

DAYTON,    OHIO. 


CONTRIBUTORS. 


Mrs.   D.  C.   Anderson. 
"     Wm.  L.  Baker. 
"     Leslie  E.   Brooks. 
"     J.   Curtis  Bush. 
"     Henry   Barnewall. 
"     R.   C.   Cunningham. 
"     Dr.  Wm.  P.    Crawford. 
"     Wm.   P.  Carter. 
"     George   Coster. 
"     J.  C.   Calhoun. 
"     Wm.  Cox. 
"     James  W.   Campbell. 
"     Alexander  Carr. 
"     George  B.  Clitherall. 
"     Jno.   Douglas. 
"     A.   DuMont. 
Miss  V.  W.   Dorman. 
Mrs.  Jonathan  Emanuel. 
"     C.   K.   Foote. 
"     A.   M.  Fosdick. 
"  ,  M.  S.   Foote. 
"     John   Gaillard. 
"     S.   Goodall. 
"     Henry  Goldthwaite. 
"     H.  N.  Gould. 
"     J.  R.    Gates. 
"     H.  Gets. 
"     Chas.   W.  Gazzam. 
"     J.  D.  Goodman. 
"     Peter  Hamilton. 
"     T.   A.    Hamilton. 
"     Ann  T.   Hunter. 
Miss  Mary  E.   Hodges. 
Mrs.   F.  R.   Hill. 

Jefferson  Hamilton. 

Alfred  Irwin. 

Geo.  A.   Ketchum. 

Wm.   Kelly,  Sr. 

Thomas  King. 

L.   W.    Lawler. 

T.  T.  A.    Lyon. 


Mrs. 

A.  J.    Leslie. 

tt 

James  F.   Lyon. 

Miss 

Josephine  Long. 

Mrs. 

Wm.  G.   Little. 

« 

Robert  Middleton. 

ii 

James   B.    Malone. 

" 

Chas.   F.   Moore. 

" 

Alfred    R.    Murry. 

tt 

R.   F.    Manly. 

" 

Daniel  McNeil. 

tt 

A.   M.   Punch. 

" 

Henry   Pope. 

tt 

H.   E.   Pease. 

«i 

J.  W.  Phares. 

(( 

A.    Proskauer. 

( i 

A.   A.    Payne. 

a 

Geo.   B.    Preston. 

tt 

Thomas  H.   Price. 

ft 

A.   M.   Quigley. 

Miss 

Fannie  Quigley. 

Mrs. 

F.   A,   Ross. 

(< 

John   Reid. 

tt 

John   K.    Randall. 

i  i 

Frank  S.  Stone. 

<( 

Wm.   A.  Smith. 

<< 

Joseph  Seawell. 

ci 

Peter  Stark. 

<< 

Henry  A.  Schroeder 

tt 

C.  C.  Sherrard. 

a 

Sidney  Smith. 

ii 

Henry  Sossaman. 

a 

M.  T.  Sprague. 

tt 

Robert   H.  Smith. 

tt 

Douglas  Vass. 

" 

Wm.  T.  Webb. 

" 

N.   Weeks. 

Miss 

S.   B.    Waring. 

Mrs 

L.   M.    Wilson. 

" 

A.   G.   Ward. 

tt 

B.  Ward. 

tt 

R.   L.    Watkins. 

GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


SOUPS. 


In  making  good  soup  it  is  necessary  to  observe  only  a  few 
points.  Beef  is  the  best  meat  for  this  purpose,  but  mutton 
or  veal  will  answer.  Cold  water  should  always  be  used  at 
first,  and  only  in  sufficient  quantity  to  prevent  burning,  until 
the  strength  or  juice  of  the  meat  is  extracted.  Allow  one 
pound  of  meat  to  one  quart  of  water.  Three  or  four  hours 
are  required  to  cook  soup  well;  generally  three  hours'  sim- 
mering, and  one  hour  boiling  after  the  vegetables  and  sea- 
soning are  put  m.  Thickening,  such  as  rice,  vermicelli, 
macaroni,  or  durnpling,  should  be  put  in  last.  Vegetables 
should  be  nicely  chopped. 

OKRA  SOUP. 

Take  a  shank-bone,  or  about  three  pounds  of  beef,  and 
boil  in  three  quarts  of  water  until  tender,  skimming  when 
necessary.  Add  one  quart  of  chopped  okra,  one  pint  of  pre- 
pared tomatoes,  one  onion  cut  fine,  and  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  If  desired,  four  hard-boiled  eggs  may  be  cut  up  and 
added  before  serving.  This  soup  should  boil  three  or  four 
hours.  Three  or  four  ears  of  grated  corn  are  an  improve- 
ment. 

CORN  SOUP. 

Cat  and  scrape  about  twelve  ears  of  corn.  Boil  the  cote 
about  half  an  hour  in  one  quart,  then  remove,  and  add  the 


GULF   CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


corn.  Boil  half  an  hour,  and  add  two  quarts  of  sweet  milk. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter,  and  thicken  with  one 
table-spoonful  of  flour  that  has  been  dissolved  in  a  little  of 
the  milk.  Let  all  boil  about  fifteen  minutes,  then  pour  over 
the  yelks  of  three  eggs,  which  have  been  well  beaten  in  the 
tureen. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

To  about  two  pounds  of  fresh  beef  or  shank-bone,  put  three 
quarts  of  water,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  When 
boiled  and  skimmed,  add  one  quart  of  ripe  tomatoes  that 
have  been  skinned  and  quartered,  a  large  onion  cut  up  fine, 
and  a  little  thyme.  Boil  until  the  tomatoes  are  all  dissolved. 
It  may  be  thickened  with  rice,  flour,  or  vermicelli. 

TOMATO  SOUP  WITHOUT  MEAT. 

To  one  quart  of  prepared  tomatoes,  cooked  and  seasoned  as 
for  table  use,  add  a  salt-spoonful  of  soda,  and  one  quart  of 
milk,  boiled  and  thickened  to  the  consistency  of  drawn  but- 
ter, with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour.  Mix  and  strain  into 
the  tureen.     Serve  immediately. 

GREEN-PEA  SOUP.— NO.  I. 

Put  two  pounds  of  veal,  lamb,  or  beef,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  fat  salt  pork  sliced  thin,  into  two  quarts  of  water. 
Set  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  when  it  boils  skim  it  clear. 
Add  a  quart  of  shelled  peas,  and  a  dozen  small  new  Irish  po- 
tatoes, well  scraped.  Cover  closely  for  an  hour,  or  until  the 
peas  are  tender;  then  add  half  a  tea-cup  of  sweet  butter 
with  a  heaping  tea-spoonful  of  flour  worked  into  it.  Pepper 
and  salt  to  taste. 

GREEN-PEA  SOUP.— NO.  2. 

Take  about  four  quarts  of  peas,  shell  and  boil  the  pods  in 
about  as  much  water  as  you  want  soup.  When  the  sweet- 
ness is  extracted,  strain  the  water,  return  to  the  kettle  and 


soups.  7 

add  the  peas.  Boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour;  then  add  one 
tea-cup  of  milk,  thickened  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour  and 
two  or  three  young  onions,  cut  fine  and  fried  in  butter.  On 
serving,  add  the  yelks  of  three  eggs,  beaten  in  a  little  cream 
or  butter.     Season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

SPLIT-PEA  SOUP. 

Put  one  pint  of  split  peas  into  two  quarts  of  water.  Boil 
until  you  can  mash  them,  which  will  be  in  about  two  hours, 
then  pass  through  a  sieve.  Pour  the  liquor  and  the  peas 
back  into  the  pot,  and  add  boiling  water  to  make  it  of  proper 
consistency,  one  small  spoonful  of  lard,  or  a  small  slice  of 
bacon,  and  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  If  not  as  thick 
as  you  desire,  thicken  with  a  little  flour.  Boil  until  done. 
Toast  some  bread,  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  put  them  in  the 
tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over  them. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP  WITHOUT  MEAT. 

Slice  a  few  onions  and  fry  brown ;  add  as  much  flour  as  is 
needed  to  thieken  a  pint  of  water.  When  nearly  done  add  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  butter,  stir  quickly,  and  add  one  pint  of 
water  and  one  pint  of  milk.  Toast  to  a  veiy  light  brown  a 
couple  slices  of  bread,  and  crush  into  the  soup.  Cover  up 
for  a  few  minutes.  Just  before  serving,  add  two  hard-boiled 
eggs,  chopped  fine. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP  FOR  WINTER  USE. 

One  bushel  of  skinned  tomatoes,  one  peck  of  okra  cut  up, 
six  red  peppers  without  the  seeds,  two  dessert-spoonfuls  of 
ground  black  pepper,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  salt.  Cook  all 
together  until  it  is  a  thick  marmalade.  Put  up  hot  in  close 
jars  for  winter  use.  When  wanted  for  table,  add  beef-water 
in  quantities  to  suit  the  family  taste,  adding  seasoning  or 
not,  as  you  choose.  Of  course,  some  additional  boiling  will 
be  needed  to  thoroughly  incorporate  the  water. 


GULF   CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


SCOTCH  BROTH. 

On  four  pounds  of  good  beef  pour  one  gallon  of  cold  water. 
When  this  boils  add  one  half  pint  of  coarse  barley.  Then 
prepare  and  add  one  fourth  of  a  small  cabbage,  four  carrots, 
two  parsnips,  four  turnips,  one  and  a  half  pints  of  Irish  pota- 
toes; these  should  all  be  chopped  fine  before  adding.  Three 
quarters  of  an  hour  before  serving,  add  one  good-sized  onion, 
cut  fine,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
This  should  cook  at  least  four  hours.  A  pint  of  green  peas  is 
a  great  improvement,  to  be  added  with  the  onion,  parsley,  etc. 

OX-TAIL  SOUP. 

Cut  up  two  or  three  ox-tails,  separating  them  at  the  joints. 
Put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  butter, 
two  carrots  cut  in  slices,  one  stalk  of  celery,  two  turnips,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean  ham  cut  in  pieces,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
whole  pepper,  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  thyme,  and  half  a  pint 
of  cold  water.  Stir  over  a  quick  fire  to  extract  the  flavor  of 
the  herbs,  then  pour  on  three  quarts  of  water.  Simmer 
four  hours,  or  until  the  tails  are  tender,  skimming  well. 
Strain  the  soup,  reserving  the  ox-tails.  Stir  in  a  little  flour 
for  thickening,  a  wine-glass  of  Madeira  wine,  one  of  catchup, 
and  a  half  stalk  of  celery,  previously  boiled  Put  the  pieces 
of  ox-tail  into  the  strained  soup,  boil  a  few  minutes,  and 
serve. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Cut  up  one  chicken  and  boil  in  three  quarts  of  water  till 
the  strength  is  extracted.  Then  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
rice,  a  sprig  of  parsley  and  thyme,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Before  serving,  add  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped 
fine,  and  if  the  chicken  is  not  fat,  a  table-spoonful  of  butter. 

OYSTER  SOUP.— NO.   i. 
Take  one  hundred  oysters,  with  two  quarts  of  the  liquor 


soups.  9 

strained.  Boil  until  the  oysters  begin  to  curl;  then  add  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  mixed  with  one  table-spoonful  of 
flour.  Season  to  taste  with  pepper,  salt,  and  allspice.  Serve 
with  slices  of  toasted  bread  or  broken  crackers. 

OYSTER  SOUP.— NO.  2. 

To  two  quarts  of  strained  oyster-liquor,  boiling,  add  one 
hundred  oysters,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  all  boil 
together  till  the  edges  of  the  oysters  curl,  skimming  con- 
stantly. Kemove  the  oysters  to  the  tureen,  and  thicken  the 
soup  with  one  table-spoonful  of  flour,  rubbed  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Boil  in  a  separate  vessel — to  pre- 
vent curdling — one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  and  pour  in  the 
tureen,  pouring  in  the  soup  last. 

TURTLE  SOUP. 

Take  a  turtle  weighing  eight  or  ten  pounds,  cut  its  head 
off  and  let  it  drain.  Take  it  from  the  shell,  select  the  liver 
and  other  parts  used,  being  careful  to  remove  the  gall. 
Quarter  the  turtle,  lay  it  in  a  pan,  pour  boiling  water  over  it, 
then  scrape  it  clean  and  cut  the  claws  off;  then  lay  it  in  cold 
water,  wash  it  thoroughly,  and  wipe  dry.  Put  into  a  soup- 
kettle  one  large  table-spoonful  of  lard,  and  four  of  flour.  Let 
it  fry  until  the  flour  is  brown;  add  to  it  a  medium-sized 
onion,  chopped  fine.  Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces  and  fry, 
as  you  would  chicken,  in  lard  and  flour,  for  a  short  time. 
Put  all  into  the  kettle,  adding  one  gallon  of  water;  boil 
slowly  until  reduced  one  half.  When  the  meat  is  tender  add 
spices  as  follows:  One  small  table  spoonful  of  cinnamon, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  mace,  and  twelve  or  fifteen  cloves,  beaten 
fine;  also,  thyme,  parsley,  salt,  and  pepper,  both  cayenne 
and  black.  Then  add  one  tumbler  of  Madeira,  and  one-half 
tumbler  of  claret.  If  the  turtle  has  eggs,  put  them  in  about 
fifteen  minutes  before  the  soup  is  served.     When  ready  to 


10  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

serve,  add  the  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon.     Gopher  is  an 
excellent  substitute  for  turtle. 

MOCK-TURTLE  SOUP. 

Take  about  two  pounds  of  beet,  lamb,  fowl,  pig's-head,  or 
tongue;  any  of  these  kinds  of  meat  will  make  good  soup. 
Boil  the  meat  well,  take  it  .out,  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  and 
put  back  into  the  soup.  Season  it  with  one  tea-spoonful  of 
mace,  one  of  cloves,  one  of  cinnamon,  one  dozen  of  whole 
black  pepper,  one  small  onion,  chopped  fine.  Grind  the 
spices  before  adding  them.  Brown  one  tea-cup  of  flour  to 
thicken  the  soup;  burn  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and 
add,  with  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  the  yelks  being  rubbed  fine, 
and  one  tea-cup  of  tomato  catchup.  Boil  all  these  ingredients 
until  done,  and  just  before  serving  add  a  glass  of  claret  or 
other  wine.  Put  the  soup  on  as  soon  after  breakfast  as  pos- 
sible. 

GRAVY  SOUP. 

Boil  your  soup-meat  until  tender,  then  chop  it  fine.  (Beef- 
steak "left  over"  is  better  than  meat,  and  does  not  require 
to  be  boiled.)  Brown  two  table  spoonfuls  of  flour  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Cut  up  two  onions  into  it,  add  your 
meat,  and  enough  of  the  pot-liquor  to  moisten  it  (if  beef-steak 
is  used,  moisten  with  water);  let  it  fry  ten  minutes,  then  re- 
turn to  the  soup-pot.  Cut  up  three  carrots,  three  turnips,  and 
one  can  of  tomatoes,  very  fine,  and  put  them  into  the  soup. 
Boil  two  eggs  hard,  and  add,  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before 
dishing,  a  salt-spoonful  of  ground  mace  and  a  tea-spoonful 
of  ground  cloves.  Before  sending  to  table  add  a  tumbler 
and  a  half  of  claret.     Serve  with  rice. 

CLAM  SOUP. 

Open  the  clams  by  putting  them  in  a  pot  with  a  little 
water,  and   steaming  them  until  the   shells  begin    to  pail, 


SOUPS.  11 

when  they  can  be  taken  out  with  ease.  Boil  them  well,  and 
when  they  have  been  chopped  fine  add  enough  of  the  liquor 
to  make  them  taste  well,  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  two 
crackers  rolled  fine,  a  tea-spoonful  of  mace,  and  half  that 
quantity  of  cayenne  pepper.  When  ready  to  be  served,  add 
a  tea-cup  of  sweet  cream. 

EGG-BALLS  FOR  SOUP. 

Take  the  yelks  of  eight  eggs,  boiled  hard,  and  mash  them 
smooth  with  a  little  flour,  salt,  and  the  yelks  of  two  raw 
eggs.  Mix  well  together,  roll  into  balls,  and  drop  into  boil- 
ing water. 

RED-FISH  SOUP. 

One  large  table-spoonful  of  lard,  and  the  same  of  flour,  put 
in  a  soup-pot  to  brown  ;  two  large  onions,  some  thyme  and 
parsley  chopped  up  fine  and  put  in  with  the  gravy  of  lard 
and  flour.  Let  them  brown  a  little;  add  one  can  of  tomatoes 
(or  one  quart  of  fresh  ones).  Pour  on  two  quarts  of  water, 
and  let  it  boil.  For  a  four-o'clock  dinner  put  this  dn  at 
noon,  and  let  it  boil  until  half  an  hour  before  dinner ;  then 
have  a  small  red-fish  (or  any  coarse-grained  fish)  sliced  in 
pieces,  about  half  the  size  of  your  hand.  Put  in  the  fish 
with  one  large  lemon,  sliced,  one  table-spoonful  of  whole 
allspice,  salt,  red,  and  black  pepper,  and  a  little  more  than  a 
pint  of  claret.     Serve  with  rice. 

CUBION. 

Stir  into  two  table-spoonfuls  of  hot  lard  sufficient  flour  to 
brown  it,  and  red  and  black  pepper  to  taste.  Then  add 
eight  onions,  sliced,  a  large  bunch  of  parsley  chopped  fine,  a 
little  thyme,  and  one  quart  of  tomatoes.  Let  these  cook  fif- 
teen minutes,  stirring  all  the  time  ;  then  add  two  quarts  of 
boiling  water,  and  boil  slowly  for  three  hours.  Three  quar- 
ters of  an  hour  bef ne  serving  a  Id  one  quart  of  claret,  one 


12  GULF   CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

table-spoonful  of  whole  allspice,  and  one  large  lemon,  sliced 
thin.  Cut  your  red-fish  in  pieces  about  three  or  four  inches 
square,  bones  and  all,  and  half  an  hour  before  serving  put  it 
it  in  and  let  it  boil  until  dinner.  Serve  with  rice,  as  gumbo. 
Salt  to  taste. 

DAUPHINE  SOUP. 

Place  in  a  stew-pan  half  a  pint  of  water,  half  a  pint  of  lean 
ham,  six  apples,  one  onion,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  one  carrot, 
one  turnip,  and  a  knuckle  of  veal.  Boil  briskly  over  a  quick 
fire,  stirring  occasionally.  Let  all  cook  until  the  bottom  of 
the  stew-pan  is  covered  with  a  brownish  glaze;  then  add 
three  table-spoonfuls  of  curry-powder,  one  of  curry-paste, 
and  half  a  pound  of  flour.  Mix  well,  and  pour  on  a  gallon 
of  water;  add  a  table-spoonful  of  salt,  and  half  as  much 
sugar.  Let  all  boil  up  once;  then  remove  to  the  back  of  the 
stove,  and  let  simmer  two  and  a  half  hours,  skimming  off  the 
fat  as  it  rises.     Strain  into  the  tureen  and  serve. 

GUMBO. 

Fry  two  fowls,  old  ones  are  best,  with  parsley,  onions,  pep- 
per, salt,  and  lard  or  bacon.  Put  these  into  the  pot  with 
water  sufficient  for  the  soup,  and  boil  until  the  flesh  drops 
off  the  bone.  Just  before  taking  off  the  fire,  add  your  oys- 
ters, and  a  few  minutes  after  a  table- spoonful  of  gumbo  pow- 
der, or  file' ;  scraps  of  ham  or  fried  sausage  are  an  improve- 
ment. The  gumbo  does  not  requh-e  boiling  after  the  file'  is 
put  in. 

OKRA  GUMBO. 

Cut  up  one  chicken,  sprinkle  with  flour,  and  fry  till  brown  ; 
then  add  one  onion  and  one  quart  of  okra,  both  chopped 
fine,  and  fry  with  the  chicken.  Pour  on  three  quarts  of 
boiling  water,  and  one  pint  of  prepared  tomatoes,  and  pepper 
and   salt  to  taste.     Boil  three  hours  and  serve  with    rice. 


soups.  13 

The  chicken,  okra,  a*nd  onion  should  be  fried  in  the  vessel  in 
which  the  soup  is  made,  and  in  a  porcelain  or  tin-lined  ves- 
sel, as  iron  discolors  the  okra 

CRAB  GUMBO. 

Take  one  dozen  large  crabs,  one  cup  of  butter,  and  two  or 
three  onions.  Wash  the  crabs,  taking  care  to  get  them  free 
ti-om  sand;  take  off  the  feelers  and  gills  and  divide  the  crabs 
into  quarters;  brown  the  onions  in  the  butter  with  two  ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of  flour.  Put  in  the  crabs  with  about  a  hand- 
ful of  chopped  ham.  Fill  up  the  pot  with  three  quarts  of 
cold  water.  Just  before  serving  sift  in  about  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  file'.  Do  not  let  it  boil  after  the  file'  is  put  in.  Serve 
with  rice. 

OYSTER  GUMBO. 

Cut  up  a  chicken,  sprinkle  with  flour,  and  fry  in  the  ves- 
sel in  which  the  gumbo  is  made.  When  the  chicken  is 
nearly  done,  chop  an  onion  and  fry  with  it.  Pour  on  this 
three  quarts  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  boil  slowly  till  the 
flesh  leaves  the  bones;  then  add  the  liquor  from  the  oysters, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  tomato  catch- 
up: let  this  boil  a  short  time,  then  add  one  hundred  oys- 
ters, and  allow  them  to  boil  only  five  minutes.  When  taken 
from  the  fire,  and  before  pouring  into  the  tureen,  sprinkle 
in  two  table-spoonfuls  of  file'  or  sassafras  powder. 

TO  PREPARE  FILE7  FOR  GUMBO. 

Gather  sassafras  leaves  as  late  as  possible  in  the  season, 
before  they  turn  red.  Put  them  in  the  shade  and  open  air 
to  dry.  When  perfectly  dry  pound  them,  sift  the  powder, 
bottle  it,  and  keep  tightly  corked. 

GUMBO  CHOU. 

Boil  the  cabbage,  take  out  and  chop  very  fine,  sprinkle 
with  a  little  flour  and  put  into  hot  lard  with  water  enough 


14  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

to  keep  from  burning.  Add  one  pint  of  oysters  and  oyster- 
liquor,  one  tea-cup  of  tomatoes,  salt  and  pepjJer  to  taste.  Just 
before  dishing  add  three  table-spoonfuls  of  molasses.  Serve 
with  rice  boiled  dry. 

GOPHER  SOUP. 

For  a  large  gopher  take  two  table-spoonfuls  of  lard,  five 
of  flour,  and  one  onion,  chopped  fine.  Put  the  lard  in  the 
pot  in  which  the  soup  is  made,  and  when  it  is  boiling  hot 
add  the  flour ;  when  it  is  nicely  browned  add  the  onion  and 
fry  quite  brown.  Then  put  the  meat  in,  fry  fifteen  minutes, 
then  add  three  or  four  quarts  of  boiling  water.  About  an 
hour  and  a  half  before  serving,  season  with  thyme,  parsley, 
a  little  mace,  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice.  *  The  spices  should 
be  beaten  and  tied  up  in  a  bag,  and  the  bag  removed  before 
serving.  If  there  are  gopher  eggs  put  them  in  half  an  hour 
before  dinner.  Just  before  serving  add  one  pint  of  Madeira, 
two  of  claret.  This  soup  requires  four  hours'  gentle  boiling. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  after  adding  the  boiling  water. 
The  wine  is  a^great  improvement,  but  the  soup  is  very  nice 
without  it. 


FISH,   CRABS,  ETC.  15 


FISH,  CRABS,  ETC. 


BOILED  COD-FISH  AND  BUTTER-SAUCE. 

Put  it  in  cold  water,  and  boil  gently  fifteen  minutes. 
Serve  with  drawn  butter,  and  garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs. 

BOILED  RED-FISH. 

Tie  a  large,  solid  fish  in  a  domestic  bag,  and  lay  it  in  a 
long  baking-pan  on  top  of  the  stove,  with  enough  water  to 
cover  it.  Let  it  boil  half  an  hour,  turning  it  over  carefully, 
that  both  sides  may  be  well  done.  Serve  with  butter-sauce, 
for  which  take  three  table-spoonfuls  of  butter  and  one  of 
sifted  flour.  Mix  the  flour  and  butter  together,  and  have 
ready  about  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Stir  the  butter  and 
flour  in  while  boiling,  being  careful  not  to  let  lumps  form. 
Boil  four  eggs  hard ;  when  cold,  slice  over  the  fish,  seasoning 
well  with  black  pepper  and  salt;  then  pour  the  sauce  over 
the  whole. 

STEWED  FISH,  WITH  OYSTERS 

Cut  the  fish  in  pieces  two  inches  thick.  Put  in  a  stew-pan 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  one 
onion  minced  fine,  a  little  parsley  and  celery.  Let  this  come 
to  a  boil;  then  add  the  fish,  one  pint  of  oyster  liquor,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  pepper  and  salt.  Stew  quickly,  shaking 
the  pan  frequently.  When  nearly  done,  add  two  dozen  oys 
ters.  Cook  five  minutes  longer.  Keep  the  pan  well  covered. 
to  retain  the  flavor. 


16  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


FISH  "COURT  BOUILLON." 

Cut  up  a  large  fish  and  take  out  the  bones;  pour  over  it  a 
cup  of  vinegar.  Chop  one  onion  and  some  parsley ;  fry  these 
in  hot  lard,  with  red  and  black  pepper,  a  table-spoonful  of  all- 
spice, a  dozen  pounded  cloves,  and  three  blades  of  mace. 
Pour  into  this  a  pint  of  tomatoes.  Place  the  whole  into  a 
sauce-pan,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly.  Three  quarters  of  an 
hour  before  dinner  put  the  fish  in,  with  a  large  spoonful  of 
butter.     Serve  with  crusts  of  toast  around  the  dish. 

BOILED  FISH. 

Having  cleaned  the  fish  thoroughly,  wipe  dry,  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Broil  on  a  gridiron,  over  hot  coals. 
When  ready  to  serve,  pour  over  the  fish  melted  butter  into 
which  the  juice  of  a  lemon  has  been  squeezed.  Garnish  the 
dish  with  sliced  lemon.  Fish  to  be  broiled  must  be  opened 
down  the  back. 

FRIED  FISH  WITH  SAUCE. 

Cut  a  red-fish  or  large  trout  in  pieces  four  inches  square. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  roll  each  piece  in  corn- 
meal.     Fry  to  a  light  brown  in  boiling-hot  lard. 

Sauce  for  the  Fish. — Take  the  yelks  of  twelve  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  creamed  with  a  table-spoonful  of  sweet-oil,  one 
of  mustard,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  half  a  cup  of  vinegar, 
and  Worcestershire  sauce  or  walnut  catchup.  Add  three  or 
four  pickled  cucumbers  cut  up  fine.  Place  the  fish  around 
the  edge  of  the  dish,  antt  the  sauce,  which  must  be  quite  stiff, 
in  the  middle. 

FRIED   RED  SNAPPER. 

Cut  in  thin  slices  from  the  bone.  Brown  four  or  five  crack- 
ers, and  roll  them  very  fine.  Beat  well  three  or  four  eggs, 
and  season  them  with  salt  and  pepper.  Have  your  lard 
ready,  very  hot.     Dip  the  slices  in  the  egg  first,  and  then  in 


FISH,   CRABS,  ETC.  17 


the  cracker.     Have  ready  some  parsley  and  butter,  to  make 

the  gravy  after  the  fish  is  taken  out. 

» 
STEWED  FISH. 

Eed  fish  or  snapper  is  the  best  fish  to  cook  in  this  way: 
Brown  some  flour  in  hot  lard,  and  fry  in  it  one  onion  sliced, 
one  clove  of  garlic,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  prepared 
tomatoes.  Put  in  the  fish  cut  in  pieces,  and  half  a  pint  of 
water,  or  just  enough  to  cover  the  fish.  Cook  slowly  for  half 
an  hour.  Do  not  stir  much,  or  it  will  break  the  fish.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Just  before  taking  up,  add  one  half 
tumbler  of  claret  wine. 

MARY'S  FISH— CUBION. 

Cut  a  red-fish  or  red  snapper  in  pieces  and  fry  brown.  In 
a  separate  vessel,  cut  up  and  fry  one  onion  and  two  cloves  of 
garlic;  when  brown,  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  one 
pint  of  prepared  tomatoes,  a  little  pepper,  salt  to  taste,  one 
table-spoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  half  a  dozen 
whole  cloves.  Let  this  simmer  for  half  an  hour,  then  mix  in 
half  a  pint  of  wine.  Pour  over  the  fried  fish,  and  serve  im- 
mediately. 

BAKED  FISH— NO.  1. 

Make  a  dressing  of  light  bread,  seasoned  with  butter,  pep- 
per, salt,  and  onion  chopped  fine.  Fill  the  fish  with  this; 
then  put  in  a  pan,  sprinkle  with  flour,  and  put  on  a  little  but- 
ter, pepper,  and  salt.  Cover  with  tomatoes,  and  bake  slowly. 
Pour  half  a  pint  of  water  into  the  pan,  and  baste  occasion- 
ally. 

BAKED  FISH.— NO.  2. 

Make  a  stuffing  as  you  would  for  veal  or  poultry,  with 

plenty  of  onions.     Mix  with  it  slices  of  fried  salt  pork,  and 

pour  on  a  pint  of  tomato  catchup.     Take  part  of  the  stuffing 

and  put  into  the  fish;   pour  the  remainder  over  the  fish. 

2 


IS  GULF  CITY  cook  BOOK. 

Bake  tor  one  hour,  if  an  ordinary  sized  fish  ;  it  larger,  bake 
longer, 

BAKED  RED  SNAPPER,  OR  SHEEP'S-HEAD. 

Take  two  or  three  Irish  potatoes,  boil,  then  mash  them 
with  two  table  spoonfuls  of  butter,  a  small  onion  out  very  fine, 
blaok  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  Salt  the  tish,  put  it  in  a 
baking-pan,  ami  stuff  it  with  the  potato  dressing;  sprinkle 
a  little  Hour  over  it.  Put  in  the  pan  with  the  tish  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  two  deserl  Bpoonfuls  of  sweet-oil,  a  dozen 
tomatoes  Blioed  (or  halt  a  can  oi'  prepared  tomatoes),  and  a 

tea  OUp   Of    Water.       Bake    in    a    moderate    oven    until    done. 
When    the   tish  is   done,  slice   over  it  three   hard  boiled   eggS. 

Stir  into  the  gravy  a  table-spoonful  oi'  tomato  oatohup,  and 

one  oi'  Worcestershire  Bauoe.      Tour  over  the   tish,  and   it    is 
ready  tor  the  table, 

FISH  A  LA  CREME.— NO.  I. 

Take  any  kind  of  tish  hoiled.  Hick  the  tish  to  pieces,  tak- 
ing out  all  bones;  plaoe  in  a  baking-dish.  Heat  together  a 
spoonful  oi'  butter  and  a  Utile  Hour;  pour  on  this  a  pint  of 
boiling  cream,  stir  smooth,   and  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 

adding,  if  you  oboose,  the  yelks  oi'  two  eggs,  well  beaten. 

Tour  over   the   fish,   grate    a  little    eheese   over   the  top,  and 
hake  twenty  minutes, 

FISH   A  LA   CKKMK.-No.  2. 

Boil  a  firm  tish,  piek  it  to  pioees,  removing  the  bones. 
Mix  one  pint  of  eream,  or  rich  milk,  with  two  table-spoon- 
fuls oi  flour,  a  quarter  oi'  a  pound  oi'  butter,  salt,  and  one 
onion  cut  tine.  Set  it  on  the  tire,  and  stir  until  it  is  the 
thickness  oi'  custard.  Pill  a  baking-dish  with  alternate 
layers  oi'  tish,  powdered  cracker,  and  cream,  using  four  crack- 
ers.     Hake  twenty  minutes. 


FISH,    CRABS,   ETC.  19 


TURBOT  A  LA  CREME. 

Take  four  pounds  of  fish,  for  a  large  party;  boil  it  with 
plenty  of  salt  in  the  water.  Take  out  all  the  hones,  remove 
the  skin,  and  flake  the  fish  off.  Boil  a  quart  of  cream  ;  while 
boiling,  stir  in  three  large  table-spoonfuls  of  flour  perfectly 
smooth,  add  a  bunch  of  parsley,  three  fourths  of  an  onion, 
to  flavor  the  cream;  but  when  boiled  take  both  out.  Clarify 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  add  to  the  cream  after  it 
is  boiled,  with  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Then  butter  a  bak- 
ing-dish, and  put  in  first  a  layer  offish,  then  a  layer  of  sauce, 
and  repeat  until  the  dish  is  full,  making  the  sauce  come  on 
top.  Strew  over  the  top  a  thick  layer  of  bread-crumbs. 
Bake  half  an  hour.     Garnish  with  egg  and  parsley. 

SCALLOPED  FISH. 

Free  the  fish  from  the  bones,  and  cut  up  in  small  pieces, 
with  chopped  onions,  parsley,  salt,  and  pepper.  Beat  two 
eggs  well  with  one  table-spoonful  of  catchup.  Mix  all  together, 
and  put  in  a  baking-dish,  with  three  slices  of  bacon  over  it. 
Bake  a  short  time,  and  serve  with  melted  butter. 

CHOWDER.— NO.   i. 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  cut  it  into  slips,  and  cover 
the  bottom  of  a  pot  with  some  of  them  ;  then  strew  in  some 
sliced  onions.  Have  ready  a  largo  fresh  fish,  cut  it  in  large 
pieces,  and  lay  part  of  them  on  the  pork  and  onions,  season- 
ing with  pepper  and  salt.  Then  cover  it  with  a  layer  of 
biscuit  or  cracker  that  has  been  soaked  in  milk  or  water;  and 
on  this  put  a  layer  of  sliced  potatoes.  Then  put  a  second 
layer  of  pork  and  onions,  fish,  cracker,  etc.,  and  continue 
this  till  the  pot  is  nearly  full,  finishing  with  soaked  crackers. 
Put  in  about  one  and  a  half  pints  of  cold  water,  cover  the 
pot  closely,  set  it  on  the  stove,  and  let  it  simmer  about  an 
hour.  Then  skim  it,  and  turn  it  out  in  a  deep  dish.  Leave 
the  gravy  in  the  pot  until  you  have  thickened  it  with  a  bit  of 


20  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

butter  rolled  in  flour,  some  chopped  parsley,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  Give  it  one  boil  up,  and 
pour  in  the  dish. 

FISH  CHOWDER.— NO.  2. 

Take  a  red  or  any  other  firm  fish,  cut  it  in  pieces  about 
three  inches  square;  one  pound  and  a  half  of  salt  pork  cut 
m  thin  slices;  one  dozen  and  a  half  of  Irish  potatoes,  and 
the  same  of  tomatoes,  both  sliced  thin ;  half  a  dozen  onions 
cut  fine,  and  one  dozen  hard  crackers  broken  in  small  pieces. 
Take  a  large  pot,  put  a  layer  of  pork  on  the  bottom,  then  a 
layer  each  of  fish,  potatoes,  tomatoes,  onions,  and  crackers. 
Sprinkle  each  layer  with  a  little  salt,  black  pepper,  and  flour. 
Repeat  the  layers  of  pork,  fish,  potatoes,  etc.,  until  all  are 
used.  Fill  with  hot  water  until  it  covers  the  whole.  Put 
the  pot  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  thirty  minutes;  then  add 
a  pint  of  claret  and  boil  five  minutes  longer.  The  chowder 
will  then  be  ready  for  the  table. 

FISH-PUDDING. 

Take  three  pounds  of  fresh  fish,  boil  in  the  evening,  take 
out  the  bones,  mince  the  fish  quite  fine.  In  the  morning, 
make  a  sauce  of  one  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs,  throe  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  a  tea-spoonful 
of  salt,  the  same  of  black  pepper.  Boil  all  together,  and 
mix  with  the  fish.  Put  all  in  a  pudding-dish,  and  bake  half 
an  hour.     Serve  hot. 

HOW  SALT  FISH  SHOULD  BE  FRESHENED. 

Mackerel,  or  any  other  salt  fish,  should  be  soaked  in  fresh 
water,  with  the  flesh  side  down,  as  the  salt  falls  to  the  bot- 
tom. If  the  skin  is  down,  the  fish  comes  out  nearly  as  salty 
as  when  put  in. 

FRESH  FISH-BALLS. 
Pick  clear  of  bones  fish  left  from  a  dinner.     Mix  with  this 


FISH,    CRABS,   ETC.  21 


as  much  bread-crumbs  as  fish,  season  nicely  with  pepper  and 
salt,  add  one  or  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 
Eat  with  salad-dressing.  » 

COD-FISH  BALLS.— NO.   i. 

Soak  the  cod  in  cold  water  in  the  morning,  or  over  night. 
Change  the  water,  and  let  it  scald  for  an  hour.  Then  boil 
five  or  six  minutes.  Chop  very  fine,  and  mix  well  with  po- 
tatoes, using  equal  quantities  of  fish  and  potatoes,  and  ad- 
ding butter,  pepper,  and  milk,  to  soften.  Make  in  small 
cakes  and  fry  in  lard. 

COD-FISH  BALLS.— NO.  2. 

If  intended  for  breakfast,  soak  the  fish  in  cold  water  over 
night.  Do  not  boil.  In  the  morning  take  it  from  the  water 
and  place  near  the  fire,  where  it  may  become  warm  while 
taking  off  the  skin  and  picking  the  fish  in  small  bits  from 
the  bone.  Have  boiled,  meantime,  some  good  Irish  potatoes, 
— say  about  six  or  eight,  for  a  good-sized  fish.  Take  off  the 
skins  and  mash  while  hot,  with  the  fish  adding  a  large 
table-spoonful  of  butter  and  one  egg  beaten.  If  too  dry 
to  make  into  balls,  add  a  little  sweet  cream.  Season  with 
a  little  pepper.  Make  up  into  balls  about  the  size  of  a  bis- 
cuit. Roll  them  in  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  sufficient  to 
swim  the  balls.     When  done,  they  will  be  a  light  brown. 

FRIED  EELS. 

Cut  the  eels  in  pieces  about  four  inches  long.  Beat  some 
eggs,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Dip  the 
pieces  of  eel  in  the  egg,  then  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

STEWED  CRABS.— NO.  1. 

Scald  the  crabs,  cut  the  bodies  into  four  parts,  pick  the 
meat  out  of  the  claws.     Take  the  yelks  of  two  hard-boiled 


22  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

eggs,  and  rub  them  smooth  in  a  desert-spoonful  of  vinegar. 
Koll  some  butter  in  flour;  mince  a  small  onion  very  fine. 
Put  the  crabs  and  these  ingredients,  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  into  a  stew-pan.  Cover  them  with  about  a  pint  of 
water,  and  let  them  cook  slowly.  When  served,  garnish  the 
dish  with  sippets  of  toasted  bread. 

STEWED  CRABS.— NO.  2. 

Boil  a  dozen  crabs,  and  pick  them  out,  being  careful  not 
to  leave  a  particle  of  shell  with  the  crabs.  Take  a  cup  about 
three  fourths  full  of  butter,  one  large  onion,  one  pod  of  red 
pepper.  Fry  the  onion  and  pepper  in  the  butter,  with  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  browning  them  nicely.  Put  in  the 
crab,  stir  up  well,  add  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  black  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Let  it  stew  gently  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 
A  couple  of  tomatoes  chopped  and  added  to  this  stew  is  an 
improvement. 

STEWED  CRABS.— NO.  3. 

Take  one  dozen  crabs  well  picked  from  the  shell  after  be- 
ing boiled.  Boil  one  pint  of  fresh  milk,  with  a  tea-spoonful 
of  finely-chopped  onion,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  salt, 
red  and  black  pepper  to  taste,  a  pinch  of  mace,  allspice,  and 
one  nutmeg  grated,  the  whites  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs  chop- 
ped fine,  the  yelks  of  the  same  rubbed  smooth  with  a  little 
milk.  When  this  boils,  add  flhree  or  four  table-spoonfuls  of 
powdered  crackers,  and  cook  until  the  onions  are  quite  done. 
Then  put  in  half  a  pint  of  fresh  cream  and  the  crabs.  Let 
all  boil  together,  a  few  minutes  only.  Serve  with  lemon- 
juice  and  sherry  wine  to  your  taste.  It  is  necessary  to  stew 
quickly  all  the  time.  If  too  thick,  add  either  milk  or  cream, 
whichever  is  most  convenient. 

FRICASSEED  CRABS. 
Boil  and  pick  out   the   crabs;  put  them   into  a   dish  with 
black  pepper,   mustard,  a  small  onion,  thyme,  and  a  large 


FISH,   CRABS,  ETC.  23 


spoonful  of  butter  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour  rubbed  into  it. 

Add  a  tea-cup  of  water,  grate  bread-crumbs  over  them,  and 

bake. 

t 

CRAB  OMELET. 

Take  six  or  eight  crabs.  Prepare  them  by  boiling  and 
picking  from  the  shell.  Chop  one  onion  fine,  and  fry  it 
brown;  then  take  it  out  of  the  pan.  Then  beat  as  if  for  cake 
six  eggs ;  chop  very  fine  one  slice  of  ham  and  a  small  bunch 
of  parsley.  Put  all  together  and  stir  well.  Have  the  lard 
out  of  which  you  have  taken  the  onion  hot,  and  put  in  it  the 
crab,  egg,  etc.,  stirring  all  until  heated  through.  Just  before 
taking  off  the  fire,  stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of  butter.  Roll  it 
up  as  you  would  an  egg  omelet. 

MOCK  TERRAPIN. 

Take  half  a  calf 's-liver,  season  and  fry  brown  ;  hash  it,  but 
not  too  fine.  Dash  thickly  with  flour,  and  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  the 
same  of  cloves,  two  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  a  large 
table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  tea-cup  of  water.  Let  all  boil 
two  or  three  minutes,  then  add  a  wine-glass  of  wine.  Cold 
veal  may  be  used,  if  liver  is  not  liked. 

STEWED  TERRAPIN.— NO.  I. 

Boil  six  diamond-back  terrapins  whole,  for  about  fifteen 
minutes  ;  then  take  them  out,  pressing  the  liquor  from  them. 
Skim  and  strain  the  liquor.  Cut  the  terrapins  up,  cleaning 
the  entrails  and  removing  the  gall.  Then  put  back  into  the 
liquor,  and  boil  until  done.  Add  the  dressing,  consisting  of 
six  wine-glasses  of  fine  sherry,  one  pound  of  butter,  one 
quart  of  cream,  half  a  pound  of  flour  well  sifted,  the  yelks  of 
six  hard-boiled  eggs,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  ten 
minutes,  add  lemon  to  taste,  and  serve. 


24  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

STEWED  TERRAPIN.— NO.  2. 

Cut  open  your  terrapin,  take  out  the  eggs,  cut  oft'  the  feet 
and  legs;  wash  in  pure  water,  then  scald  the  legs  and  rub 
off  the  outer  skin.  Stew  till  tender,  keeping  the  sauce-pan 
tightly  covered;  put  in  the  eggs  ten  minutes  before  it  is 
dished.  .Fry  two  onions  and  three  spoonfuls  of  flour  in  one 
of  lard.  Pour  the  terrapin  and  gravy  on  this,  seasoning 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Before  serving,  add  spices, 
two  spoonfuls  of  whisky,  four  spoonfuls  of  wine.  Garnish 
the  dish  with  lemon  cut  in  slices. 

TERRAPIN  AU  GRATIN. 

Terrapin  well  cooked  in  a  little  water,  with  onion,  salt,  and 
pepper.  Then  put  it  in  the  upper  shell,  with  a  spoonful  of 
butter,  a  little  mace,  grated  cracker  on  top  with  an  egg  well 
beaten.     Bake  until  brown.     Serve  with  lemon. 

SHRIMP  STEWED  WITH  TOMATOES. 

Take  one  can  of  shrimps,  one  can  of  tomatoes;  add  salt, 
pepper,  and  butter  to  your  taste,  then  stew  twenty  minutes 

SHRIMP  SALAD. 

Boil  the  shrimps  in  salt-water,  and  remove  the  shells.  Then 
make  a  dressing  of  the  yelks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  cream- 
ed until  smooth,  one  fourth  of  a  tea-spoonful  of  cayenne  pep- 
per, one  tea-spoonful  of  black  pepper,  two  table-spoonfuls  oi 
mustard,  and  one  of  salt,  one  tea-cup  of  vinegar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  olive  oil.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  pour  over 
the  shrimp.     This  dressing  will  do  for  crabs  also. 

TO  POT  SHRIMPS. 

Let  the  fish  be  freshly  boiled,  then  shell  them.  Melt  down 
with  a  gentle  degree  of  heat  some  good  butter;  skim  and 
pour  it  clear  of  sediment  into  a  porcelain  sauce-pan.  Add  a 
small  quantity  of  salt,  mace,  nutmeg,  and  cayenne  pepper. 


FISH,   CRABS,  ETC.  25 

When  these  have  just  simmered  for  three  or  four  minutes, 
throw  in  the  fish;  toss  them  in  the  butter,  that, they  may  be 
well  covered  with  it;  let  them  heat  through  by  the  side  of 
the  fire,  but  by  no  means  allow  them  to  boil.  Turn  them 
into  shallow  dishes,  and  press  them  down  into  the  butter. 
Should  they  not  be  well  covered,  pour  a  little  more  over 
them.  Shrimps,  one  pint;  butter,  four  or -five  ounces;  mace, 
nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste 

For  fish  and  turtle  soup,  and  crab  gumbo,  see  Soup  De- 
partment. 


26  GULF  CITY  COCK-BOOK. 


OYSTERS. 


FRIED  OYSTERS.— No.  I. 

Select  large  oysters,  drain  and  spread  on  a  cloth  to  absorb 
all  moisture.  Beat  well  two  or  three  eggs,  and  season  them 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Roll  some  crackers,  and  dip  the  oysters 
in  the  egg  and  then  in  the  crumbs,  then  again  in  the  egg 
and  cracker  crumbs.  Drop  into  boiling  lard,  sufficient  to 
cover  them,  and  cook  till  of  a  light  brown. 

FRIED  OYSTERS.— No.  2. 

Drain  large  oysters  and  lay  on  a  napkin.  Beat  well  two 
eggs,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Dip  one  oyster  at  a 
time  first  in  the  egg  and  then  in  corn-meal.  Drop  in  boil- 
ing lard  and  fry  a  light  brown. 

OYSTER  LOAVES. 

Cut  off  carefully  the  end  of  a  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  reserv- 
ing  the  end;  scoop  out  the  crumb  inside  the  loaf,  leaving  the 
crust  entire.  Fill  the  loaf  with  hot  oysters,  fried  as  in  No. 
1,  leaving  room  for  slices  of  pickle.  Carefully  replace  the 
end  cut  off.  If  the  oysters  are  hot,  and  the  loaf  well  cover- 
ed, they  can  be  carried  quite  a  distance,  or  eaten  some  time 
alter  being  prepared,  without  getting  cold.  This  is  nice  for 
a  hasty  lunch  or  a  late  supper.  One  dozen  oysters  will  fill 
an  ordinary  sized  loaf. 

FRENCH  STEWED  OYSTERS. 
Drain  fifty  large  oysters,  and  strain  the  liquor  into  a  stew- 


0  YSTERS.  27 

pan,  seasoning  with  mace,  half  a  pint  of  sherry  wine,  and 
the  juice  of  two  lemons.  When  this  comes  to  a  boil,  stir  well 
and  skim;  put  in  the  oysters,  not  allowing  them  to  boil  as 
much  as  in  an  ordinary  oyster  stew. 

FRANK'S  STEWED   OYSTERS. 

For  one  hundred  oysters  take  one  pound  of  butter.  Drain 
the  oysters,  put  the  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  or  chafing-dish, 
and  when  it  is  hot  add  the  oysters,  seasoning  them  highly 
with  black  pepper  and  salt.  Let  them  stew  gently  until 
done.  Break  up  about  half  a  dozen  crackers  in  small  pieces, 
and  sprinkle  on  top.     Serve  immediately. 

STEWED    OYSTERS.— No.   I. 

Take  fifty  oysters,  and  all  of  the  liquor;  one  pint  of  new 
milk,  one  tea-cup  of  sweet  cream,  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
flour  with  one  of  butter  creamed  with  it,  one  dessert-spoon- 
ful of  black  pepper,  and  a  very  little  cayenne.  Salt  to  the 
taste  just  before  dishing. 

STEWED  OYSTERS.— No.   2. 

Take  one  hundred  oysters  and  sti*ain  the  liquor  to  remove 
any  fragments  of  shell.  Measure  the  liquor,  and  take  an 
equal  quantity  of  sweet  milk ;  boil  them  in  separate  vessels. 
To  the  oyster  liquor  add  a  tea-cupful  of  cracker  crumbs,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  large  table-spoonful  of  butter. 
When  this  has  boiled  a  few  minutes  add  the  oysters,  which 
will  require  about  five  minutes  to  cook.  Pour  in  a  dish,  and 
add  the  boiling  milk  last. 

STEWED  OYSTERS.— No.  3.     (For  a  Pie.) 

Put  the  oysters  in  their  liquor  on  the  fire.  When  they 
come  to  a  scald  take  off  and  put  in  a  sieve  to  drain.  Strain 
some  of  the  liquor;  add  butter,  flour  parsley,  and  mace;  heat 
and  put  the  oysters  in  it.     For  soup,  use  all  the  liquor,  if 


28  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

needed,-  and  boil  a  little  milk  in  a  separate  vessel,  and  add 
after  dishing. 

OYSTER  PATTIES. 

Line  a  small  patty-pan  with  puff-paste,  and  bake  a  light 
brown.  When  done,  fill  with  oysters  stewed  as  in  No.  3.  The 
patties  should  be  served  and  eaten  as  soon  as  prepared,  as 
the  gravy  soaking  in  the  pastry  will  make  it  moist  and 
heavy. 

OYSTER  PIE. 

Butter  a  dish  and  spread  rich  pastry  on  the  sides,  but  not 
on  the  bottom.  Season  the  oysters  with  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  place  them  in  the  lined  dish,  with  sufficient  liquor 
to  fill  it.  Over  the  top,  sprinkle  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  chop- 
ped fine,  and  bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  Cover  the  whole 
with  pastry,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

OYSTER    FRITTERS.— No.  i. 

Take  one  pint  of  milk,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  flour  to 
make  a  smooth  but  rather  thin  batter.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Stir  in  fifty  large  oysters;  drop  a  spoonful  of  bat- 
ter into  boiling  lard,  having  one  or  two  oysters  in  each 
spoonful;  cook  brown,  turning  carefully  to  cook  on  both  sides.. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS.— No.  2. 

Beat  two  eggs  very  light;  stir  in  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
cream,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Dip  the  oysters  in  this  batter,  and  fry  in  boiling 
lard. 

MINCED  OYSTERS. 

Take  fifty  oysters  chopped  fine;  add  one  table-spoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  one  of  butter,  one  tea-spoonful  of  black 
pepper,  six  eggs  well  beaten,  and  enough  crackers  rubbed 
fine  to  make  it  the  proper  consistenc}^  to  roll  into  balls.  Fry 
quickly  in  boiling  lard. 


0  YSTERS.  29 

.     OYSTER  SAUSAGE. 

Take  three  or  four  dozen  large  oysters;  cut  them  fine,  and 
put  in  a  colander  to  drain.  Chop  a  small  onion,  and  some 
thyme  and  parsley  very  fine.  Melt  a  table-spoonful  of  butter, 
and  pour  it  on  the  oysters,  after  taking  them  from  the  colander 
and  putting  them  on  a  dish  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Roll  eight  large  soda-crackers  and  mix  with  the  other  ingre- 
dients; beat  two  eggs  and  rub  them  in  with  the  oysters  and 
crackers.  Add  enough  flour  to  roll  into  balls,  and  fry,  like 
sausage,  in  veiy  little  lard  or  butter. 

BROILED  OYSTERS. 

Drain  and  dry  large  .oysters.  Have  ready  an  oyster  broil- 
er, hot  and  well-buttered,  to  prevent  sticking.  Season  the 
oysters  and  broil  well  on  both  sides.  Serve  in  a  hot  dish, 
with  plenty  of  butter. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

Spread  cracker  crumbs  on  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking- 
dish;  place  on  these  a  layer  of  oysters,  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
hits  of  butter.  Make  alternate  layers  of  crumbs  and  seasoned 
oysters  till  the  dish  is  full,  having  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  top. 
Make  an  incision  in  the  center  and  pour  in  one  well-beaten 
egg.  Use  butter  only,  and  no  oyster  liquor.  Brown  nicely 
in  a  hot  oven. 

OYSTERS   WITH  FRICASSEED  CHICKEN. 

Fry  the  oysters  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  egg,  a 
light  brown.  Lay  them  on  the  fricasseed  chicken,  and  pour 
a  thick-drawn  butter-sauce  over  the  whole. 

A  NICE  WAY  TO  COOK  OYSTERS. 

Procure  some  nice,  large,  deop  shells,  cleanse  thoroughly, 
and  keep  for  the  purpose.  Open  the  oysters,  place  one  in 
each  shell,  with  a  little  of  the  water,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 


30  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

black  pepper;  grate  a  little  Italian  cheese  over  each.     Cook 
in  the  oven  of  a  stove. 

MACARONI  AND  OYSTERS. 

Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  macaroni  in  salt-water  until 
tender,  then  drain.  Butter  an  earthen  dish,  and  put  in  a 
layer  of  macaroni,  then  a  layer  of  oysters,  sprinkling  on  the 
oyster  layer  pepper,  salt,  and  bits  of  butter,  and  on  the  mac- 
aroni layer  bits  of  cheese.  Make  alternate  layers  of  maca- 
roni and  oysters,  till  the  dish  is  full,  having  a  layer  of  oys- 
ters on  top.  Sprinkle  cracker  crumbs  over  the  whole.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven  until  brown.  #  Fifty  oysters  will  be  sufficient 
for  this  quantity  of  macaroni. 

STEAMED  OYSTERS. 

Turn  the  oysters  into  a  steamer  over  a  pot  of  boiling 
water;  let  them  steam  for  half  an  hour,  stirring  occasionally. 
Serve  in  a  hot  dish  with  pepper,  salt,  and  plenty  of  butter. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS.— No.  I. 

Take  one  hundred  fine,  large  oysters;  drain  the  liquor 
from  them  and  strain  it,  to  remove  all  fragments  of  shell. 
Boil  the  liquor  with  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt;  when  boiling 
drop  in  the  oysters,  allowing  them  to  be  only  well  scalded, 
not  boiled.  Remove  the  oysters,  and  add  to  the  liquor  one 
pint  of  strong  vinegar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  black  mace,  two 
dozen  whole  cloves,  two  dozen  whole  black  pepper,  and  two 
dozen  allspice.  Let  the  liquor,  vinegar,  and  spices  come  to 
a  boil,  and  when  the  oysters  are  cold  pour  it  over  them. 
These  are  for  immediate  use.  If  wanted  to  keep  some  time, 
allow  the  oysters  to  boil,  and  double  the  proportions  of 
spices  and  vinegar. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS.— No.  2. 
Boil  the  oysters  slightly;  then  strain  the  liquor,  and  to  one 


O  YSTEKS.  31 


cup  of  vinegar  put  two  cups  of  oyster  liquor,  cloves,  allspice, 
mace,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  the  liquor,  spices,  and 
vinegar,  and  pour  over  the  oysters.  When  cold  they  are 
ready  for  use. 

OYSTER  SOUPS  AND  GUMBO. 

See  Soup  Department. 


32  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  ETC. 


TO  BOIL  A  HAM. 

Proceed  inversely  as  with  a  soup-bone,  since  in  the  latter 
you  wish  to  extract  the  juice,  whereas  in  the  ham  you  would 
preserve  them.  Hence  the  appropriateness  of  the  directions 
given  in  chemical  lectures  to  a  class  of  embryo  house-keepers, 
by  Prof.  Darby,  of  prophylactic  notoriety.  His  directions 
are:  "Have  the  pot  of  water  boiling  before  putting  in  the 
ham  with  the  skin  on.  The  boiling  water  instantly  coagu- 
lates the  albumen,  which  prevents  the  escape  of  the  juice." 
Keep  the  pot  boiling  constantly  for  four  hours,  if  it  is  a  ten- 
pound  or  twelve-pound  ham,  or  longer  for  a  larger  ham.  Do 
not  allow  the  sight  of  a  protruding  bone  to  induce  you  to 
take  it  off  too  soon.  When  thoroughly  done,  remove  from  the 
pot  and  take  off  the  skin.  The  essence  which  oozes  out  will 
be  jellied  when  cold,  and  very  nice,  while  the  ham  itself  is 
tender  and  delicious,  in  every  respect  superior  to  the  less 
boiled  ham. 

TO  BOIL  FRESH-PORK  HAM. 

Take  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover  the  ham.  Put  in 
this  two  quarts  of  salt,  one  half  cup  of  dark  molasses  or 
brown  sugar,  a  handful  of  whole  black  pepper,  saltpeter  the 
size  of  a  large  pea.  Put  the  ham  in  this  boiling  mixture,  and 
boil  until  thoroughly  done,  which  will  probably  be  when  the 
meat  leaves  the  knuckle-bone.  Let  this  cool  in  the  water  in 
in  which  it  is  boiled,  as  all  corned  meats  should. 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  ETC.  33 

BAKED  STUFFED  HAM. 

Take  a  ham,  wash  well,  put  in  a  pot  of  hot  water,  and  let 
it  boil  three  hours.  When  nearly  cold,  take  off  the  skin. 
Make  a  rich  dressing  of  one  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  three  large 
onions  chopped  fine,  one  large  table-spoonful  of  butter,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  celery-seed,  one  of  ground  sage,  and  one  of 
thyme;  salt  and  pepper  to  your  taste  (a good  deal  of  pepper); 
cook  as  you  would  dressing  for  a  turkey.  Make  deep  in- 
cisions in  the  ham,  and  fill  them  with  the  dressing  in  such  a 
way  that  each  slice  may  have  some  of  the  dressing  in  it. 
Two  eggs  well  beaten  and  mixed  with  cracker  crumbs,  spread 
over  the  ham;  and  sprinkle  brown  sugar  over  this.  Bake 
slowly  for  two  and  a  half  or  three  hours,  basting  frequently 
with  the  juice  which  runs  from  the  ham. 

BAKED  HAM. 

Soak  the  ham  twenty-four  hours,  changing  the  water  once 
or  twice.  Then  skin  and  trim  the  ham.  Take  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  fresh  pork  chopped  very  fine,  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  pulverized  sage,  one  table-spoonful  of  black  pepper,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  cloves,  allspice,  and  cinamon  combined,  one. 
onion  chopped  very  fine.  Moisten  the  mixture  thoroughly 
with  pepper-vinegar.  Then,  with  a  sharp  knife  make  the 
incisions  in  the  ham,  starting  toward  the  large  end  of  the 
ham.  Make  one  incision  on  the  under  side.  Fill  them  with 
the  stuffing.  Put  in  the  pan  for  baking.  Sift  well  over  with 
flour ;  and  if  the  pan  is  deep,  fill  half  full  with  water.  Baste 
as  you  would  a  fowl.  It  will  take  from  three  to  four  hours 
to  bake,  according  to  the  size. 

ROAST  PIG.— No.  i. 

Take  a  pig  of  about  eight  or  ten  pounds;  clean  well,  leav- 
ing on  the  head  and  feet.     Make  a  stuffing  of  bread,  two 
eggs,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  sage,  thyme,  onion  chop 
ped,  and  pepper  and  salt.     Stale  bread  is  best.     Soften  with 

3 


34  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

water,  and  put  in  a  frying-pan,  with  a  table-spoonful  of  lard 
to  brown,  mixing  in  the  eggs,  butter,  and  seasoning.  When 
brown,  stuff  the  pig  and  sew  up  the  opening.  Truss  with 
the  front  legs  bent  backward  and  the  back  legs  forward. 
Kub  the  pig  with  lard,  and  baste  frequently.  Cook  till  thor- 
oughly done,  and  make  the  gravy  (after  removing  the  pig) 
by  adding  a  little  water  thickened  with  flour,  and  the  liver 
and  heart  of  the  pig  (which  have  been  cooked  in  the  pan 
with  it)  chopped  fine  and  mixed  in.      Serve  in  a  gravy-dish. 

ROAST  PIG.— No.  2. 

Shave  off  all  the  hairs,  or  burn  them  off  with  a  white-hot 
poker,  using  it  carefully  and  quickly  enough  not  to  burn  the 
skin.  Dress  the  pig,  saving  the  heart,  liver,  and  kidneys, 
which  you  must  wash,  slice,  fry  in  a  very  little  fat,  and  then 
chop  fine.  Wash  the  pig;  dry  it  well  with  a  clean  cloth; 
stuff  it  with  the  following  force-meat;  sew  it  up;  tie  or 
skewer  the  legs  in  place ;  tie  up  the  ears  and  tail  in  buttered 
papers,  to  prevent  burning,  and  put  it  into  a  dripping-pan, 
with  the  following  vegetables:  Half  a  medium-sized  carrot, 
one  onion,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  a  bay-leaf.  Brush 
the  pig  thoroughly  with  salad-oil  or  melted  butter.  Put  it 
into  a  hot  oven  until  the  crackling  is  set,  basting  it  every  fif- 
teen minutes.  A  medium-sized  pig  will  cook  in  from  two  to 
two  and  a  half  hours. 

Stuffing  for  it. — Fry  together  two  ounces  of  sweet  drip- 
pings or  butter,  half  an  ounce  of  chopped  parsley,  and  about 
four  ounces  of  chopped  onion;  season  with  one  level  table- 
spoonful  each  of  powdered  sage,  thyme,  and  salt,  and  a  level 
tea-spoonful  of  pepper.  Soak  half  a  pound  of  dry  bread  in 
tepid  water  for  five  minutes,  then  wring  it  dry  in  a  towel. 
Add  it  to  the  onion  and  herbs,  stir  it  until  it  is  scalding  hot, 
add  the  fried  liver,  the  yelks  of  two  eggs,  and  half  a  pint  of 
boiling  milk  or  water,  and  stuff  the  pig  with  it.  Wash  eight 
firm  apples ;  cut  them  across  the  middle,  but  not  down  from 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  ETC.  35 

the  stein  to  the  blossom;  scoop  out  the  cores,  and  bake  only 
until  tender,  but  not  broken  down.  Peel  and  core  eight 
more  apples;  stew  them  with  a  little  sugar  and  the  rind  of  a 
lemon.  When  perfectly  tender,  pass  them  through  a  sieve, 
and  fill  the  halves  of  apple  with  this  pure'e.  Set  them  around 
the  pig  on  a  platter,  and  put  a  small  lemon  or  sprig  of  holly 
in  its  mouth. 

i       SAUSAGE. 

In  making  sausage,  allow  one  third  fat  to  two  thirds  lean. 
Grind  through  a  sausage-grinder,  and  season  to  taste  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  powdered  sage-leaves.  Make  in  small  cakes, 
and  fry  without  lard. 

BAKED  SAUSAGE-MEAT. 

A  medium-sized  loaf  of  bread,  eight  pounds  of  beef,  four 
pounds  of  fresh  pork  ground  in  a  sausage-grinder,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cloves,  one  large  onion  chopped  fine,  a  small 
quantity  of  sage,  one  table-spoonful  of  whisky  or  brandy, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  cut  up  some  red  pepper;  mix  well 
before  placing  in  pans;  insert  strips  of  fresh  pork  about  two 
two  inches  long,  and  about  an  inch  apart.  Bake  about  four 
hours;  do  not  take  out  until  perfectly  cold;  slice  crosswise. 
This  will  keep  good  some  time. 

FRENCH  SAUSAGES. 

Chop  very  fine,  or  pound  in  a  mortar,  equal  parts  of  cold 
fowls,  cream,  dried  bread-crumbs,  and  boiled  onions;  season 
them  with  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg  to  taste ;  put  them  into  the 
neck, — skins  of  poultry, — tying  the  ends,  and  .fry  them  as 
you  would  fry  sausages. 

FRICADELS. 

Mix  well  the  following  ingredients :  Half  a  pound  each 
of  sausage-meat,  dried  bread-crumbs  soaked  in  warm  water 
and  squeezed  dry  in  a  towel,  one  ounce  of  onion  chopped  fine, 


36  •   GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

two  eggs,  one  level  dessert-spoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  level 
tea-spoonful  of  pepper.  Eoll  in  the  shape  of  corks,  using  a 
little  flour  to  keep  them  from  sticking  to  the  hands,  and  fry 
brown  in  plenty  of  smoking-hot  fat.  Serve  on  toast.  Any 
other  minced  meat  may  be  substituted  for  the  sausage-meat. 

PAN  HAMS. 

Take  hog's  head  and  feet;  boil  them  until  the  meat  falls 
from  the  bones;  withdraw  them  from  the  liquor,  which 
strain  and  return  to  the  vessel.  Chop  the  meat  very  fine ;  sea- 
son with  pepper,  salt,  spice,  onions  chopped  fine,  thyme,  sage, 
and  parsley.  Add  all  to  the  liquor,  adding  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  corn-meal  to  make  a  stiff  mush.  Let  it  boil  ten  min- 
utes, stirring  all  the  time.  Pour  into  a  deep  pan ;  when  cold, 
•cut  in  thin  slices  and  fry. 

PIG'S-FEET  FRIED. 

Have  the  feet  well  cleaned,  and  boiled  until  quite  tender 
Split  them,  and  lay  in  vinegar  to  pickle  them.     When  ready 
to  cook,  have  a  batter  made  of  an  egg,  flour,  and  water;  pep- 
per and  salt  to  the  consistency  of  pudding-batter.     Fry  in 
hot  lard. 

SMOKED  MEAT  ON  TOAST. 
I 
Take  a  cold,  smoked  tongue  or  ham  that  has  been   well 

boiled;  grate  it  on  a  coarse  grater,  or  mince  it  fine.  Mix  it 
with  cream  and  beaten  yelk  of  an  egg,  a  little  pepper,  and 
let  it  simmer  over  the  fire.  Prepare  some  nice  slices  of  but- 
tered toast;  lay  them  in  a  dish  that  has  been  heated,  and 
cover  each  slice  with  the  meat  mixture,  which  should  be 
spread  on  hot.  Place  on  the  table  in  a  covered  dish.  A 
nice  dish  for  breakfast  or  tea. 

DEVILED  HAM. 

Slice  some  ham  very  thin ;  sprinkle  with  cayenne  and  black 
pepper;  broil  until  well  down;  place  in  a  dish,  and  pour 


MEAT,  POULTRY,  ETC.  37 

over  it  the  following  sauce,  quite  hot :  Three  table-spoonfuls 
of  butter,  one  of  vinegar,  one  of  mustard,  and  one  of  Wor- 
cestershire sauce. 

ROAST  BEEF. 

The  surloin  is  the  best  piece  of  beef  for  roasting.  Rub 
over  the  meat  a  little  lard,  and  put  in  a  baking-pan  with  the 
bone  side  down.  When  half  done,  sprinkle  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  flour,  and  baste  frequently  with  the  drippings.  To  make 
the  gravy,  remove  the  meat,  and  if  there  is  not  sufficient 
juice,  add  a  little  water  and  thicken  with  flour;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.     Serve  the  gravy  in  a  gravy-dish. 

BOEUF  SA  LA  MODE. 

Have  a  round  of  beef  six  inches  thick.  Take  one  and  a 
half  pounds  of  fresh  fat  bacon;  cut  in  square  pieces  one 
fourth  of  an  inch  thick  and  four  inches  long.  Then  take  one 
half  ounce  of  allspice,  one  half  ounce  of  cloves,  and  one 
ounce  black  pepper ;  grind  together.  To  this  add  a  small 
quantity  of  parsley,  thyme,  and  three  small  pieces  of  garlic, 
all  cut  up  fine.  Roll  the  pieces  of  meat  in  the  seasoning, 
and  insert  them  in  the  round  on  both  sides.  Make  incisions, 
and  pour  the  remaining  seasoning  all  over,  adding  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  salt, — say  two  ounces.  Let  it  stand  eight 
hours  before  cooking.  In  cooking  this,  have  a  close  vessel, 
with  top  to  fit  (an  oven  preferable) ;  put  in  a  spoonful  of  lard 
made  hot.  Place  in  the  round,  sprinkled  with  flour,  two 
large  onions  cut  up,  and  another  spoonful  of  lard.  Cover 
closely,  and  let  it  cook  in  its  own  juice  four  hours,  turning 
it  once. 

HUNTER'S  ROUND. 

Rub  well  into  a  round  of  beef  weighing  forty  pounds  three 
ounces  of  saltpeter,  and  let  it  stand  five  or  six  hours.  Pound 
three  ounces  of  allspice,  one  of  black  pepper,  and  mix  that 


38  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


with  twenty  pounds  of  salt  and  seven  or  eight  pounds  of 
brown  sugar.  Eub  the  beef  well  with  this  mixture,  and  pack 
it  down  to  stay  fourteen  days.  Scrape  off  the  spices ;  place 
it  in  a  deep  pan,  cover  it  with  a  common  paste,  and  bake 
from  eight  to  ten  hours.  When  cool,  wrap  it  in  a  linen  cloth, 
and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place.  Nothing  nicer  for  lunch.  This 
will  keep  well  for  several  weeks. 

SPICED  BEEF. 

Take  a  round  of  beef  and  rub  it  well  with  saltpeter;  take 
out  the  bone  in  the  middle,  and  fill  the  opening  with  salt. 
Bind  the  round  in  shape,  or  put  it  in  a  bucket  or  some  vessel 
that  fits  rather  close.  Let  it  stand  for  three  days ;  it  will 
make  its  own  brine.  Then  take  one  spoonful  of  powdered 
spice,  one  of  black  pepper,  and  one  of  brown  sugar;  rub  the 
beef  well  with  it.  Then,  after  standing  three  days,  rub  it 
again  with  the  spices,  etc.  After  standing  a  week  or  ten 
days  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

TO  COLLAR  A  FLANK  OF  BEEF. 

Get  a  nice  flank  of  beef,  rub  it  well  with  a  large  portion  of 
saltpeter  and  common  salt.  Let  it  remain  ten  days ;  then 
wash  it  clean,  take  off  the  outer  and  inner  skin  with  the 
gristle;  spread  it  on  a  board,  and  cover  the  inside  with  the 
following  mixture:  Parsley,  sage,  thyme  chopped  fine,  pep- 
per, salt,  and  pounded  cloves.  Kollit  up;  sew  a  cloth  over  it, 
and  bandage  that  with  tape;  boil  it  gently  five  or  six  hours. 
When  cold,  lay  it  on  a  board  without  undoing  it;  put  anoth- 
er board  on  the  top  with  a  heavy  weight.  Let  it  remain 
twenty-four  hours;  take  off  the  bandages;  cut  thin  slices 
from  each  end. 

CORNED  BEEF. 

To  six  gallons  of  water  add  nine  pounds  of  pure  salt,  three 
pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  quart  of  molasses,  three  ounces 
of  saltpeter,  and  one  ounce  of  pearlash.     When  the  water  is 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  ETC.  39 

ready  to  receive  the  rest  of  the  material,  pour  in  the  salt- 
peter only,  and  when  dissolved,  and  the  water  boiling,  dip 
your  beef  piece  by  piece  into  the  boiling  saltpeter-water, 
holding  it  for  a  feiv  seconds  only  in  the  hot  bath.  When  the 
beef  has  all  been  immersed  and  become  quite  cool,  pack  it  in 
the  case  where  it  is  to  remain.  Then  proceed  with  your 
pickle  as  first  directed,  and,  when  perfectly  cold,  pour  it  upon 
the  meat,  which  should  be  kept  down  by  a  cover  and  stone. 

BEEFSTEAK  SMOTHERED. 

Have  the  lard  hot  in  the  pan;  put  in  the  steak;  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  sifted  flour.  Put  a  layer  of  onions  and 
a  layer  of  tomatoes;  pour  on  a  little  water;  then  cover  with 
another  pan,  and  let  it  cook  until  nearly  done.  Take  off  the 
cover,  and  let  it  brown. 

FRIED  BEEFSTEAK.— No.  i 

Surloin  steaks  are  much  the  best  for  frying  or  broiling. 
Lay  the  steak  in  a  frying-pan  of  hot  lard  or  butter,  after  it 
has  been  dredged  with  flour  and  well  sprinkled  with  pepper. 
Turn  it  frequently,  until  both  sides  are  brown.  When  nearly 
done,  sprinkle  with  salt.  If  onions  are  desired,  slice  enough 
of  them  to  cover  the  steak,  and  fry  with  the  meat.  After 
taking  the  meat  out,  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  thicken 
with  brown  flour  for  gravy. 

FRIED  BEEFSTEAK.— No.  2. 

If  the  steak  is  not  very  young  and  tender,  beat  it  slightly. 
Beat  the  yelks  of  two  eggs,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper; 
dip  the  steak  in  the  egg.  and  then  sprinkle  over  it  cracker 
crumbs.     Fry  in  hot  lard. 

STUFFED  STEAKS  BAKED. 

Have  a  rich  dressing  as  for  turkey  or  sausage-meat,  and 
take  two  steaks  an  inch  thick  each;  place  the  dressing  be- 
tween them,  and  secure  the  dressing  by  serving  them  togeth- 


40  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

ex.  Have  a  wire  frame  rather  smaller  than  the  pan  to  be 
used;  place  the  steaks  on  the  frame,  having  previously  pre- 
pared them  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  a  few  bits  of  lard 
on  the  top  of  the  steaks,  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water  in  the 
pan,  and  bake;  baste  often;  flour  as  usual  for  roasting  or 
baking. 

HOW  TO  COOK  A  BEEFSTEAK. 

The  vessel  in  which  it  is  to  be  cooked  must  be  wiped  dry ; 
place  it  on  the  stove,  and  let  it  become  hot.  Season  your 
steak  with  salt  and  pepper;  then  lay  it  in  the  hot  pan,  and 
cover  as  tight  as  possible.  When  the  raw  meat  touches  the 
heated  pan,  of  course  it  will  adhere,  but  in  a  few  seconds  it 
will  become  loosened  and  juicy;  turn  the  steak  frequently, 
but  be  careful  to  keep  covered.  When  nearly  done,  lay  a 
piece  of  butter  upon  it;  and  if  you  want  much  gravy,  add  a 
table-spoonful  of  strong  coffee.  In  three  minutes  the  steak 
will  be  ready  for  the  table. 

Mutton-ohops  may  be  cooked  the  same  way ;  but  they  re- 
quire a  little  longer  cooking.  An  excellent  gravy  can  be 
made  from  them  by  adding  a  little  cream,  thickened  with  a 
small  quantity  of  flour,  into  which,  when  off  the  fire  and 
partly  cool,  stir  the  yelk  of  an  egg  well  beaten. 

BEEF-CAKES. 

Pound  some  beef  that  is  under-done  with  a  little  fat  bacon 
or  ham;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  onions.  Make  into 
small  cakes,  and  fry  them  a  little  brown.  Serve  them  in  good 
gravy. 

FORCE  MEAT-BALLS 

Mix  with  half  a  pound  of  veal  chopped  very  fine,  one  half 
pound  of  pork  chopped  fine  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  lit- 
tle parsley  minced,  one  table-spoonful  of  curry-powder,  the 
yelk  of  one  egg,  a  tea- cud  of  bread-crumbs,  softened  with 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  ETC.  41 

cream  or  milk.     They  should   be  made  in  small  balls,  and 
fried  in  hot  lard. 

DRY  HASH. 

Take  cold  fresh  meat  of  any  kind  that  has  been  previously 
cooked ;  cut  very  very  fine ;  mix  with  two  boiled  Irish  pota- 
toes well  mashed,  one  egg,  one  onion  minced  fino.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt.     Put  in  a  dish  and  bake. 

HASH  WITH  GRAVY. 

Cut  up  your  cold  meat  in  pieces  half  an  inch  thick ;  put  it 
to  stew  with  half  a  pint  of  water,  one  onion,  one  Irish  pota- 
to chopped  fine,  one  table-spoonful  of  lard,  one  table-spoonful 
of  flour,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a  little  butter.  Cook 
until  the  potato  and  onion  are  done.     Serve  with  the  gravy. 

BEEF-HEELS. 

Put  the  feet  in  hot  water,  with  wood  ashes  sufficient  to 
make  a  lye;  let  them  stand  in  this  until  the  hoof  is  soften- 
ed, so  as  to  pull  off;  put  in  cold  water  and  boil  until  it  leaves 
the  bones.  Take  out  and  put  in  a  bowl ;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  while  warm.  Take  a  large  spoonful,  roll  in  batter 
or  in  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

BOILED  MUTTON. 

Put  a  leg  of  mutton  into  a  boiler,  with  sufficient  hot  water 
to  cover  it;  boil  steadily;  skim  well,  and  keep  covered  by 
adding  hot  water.  Allow  fifteen  minutes  to  every  pound 
weight.  Do  not  put  in  the  salt  until  the  meat  is  nearly  done. 
Serve  with  egg-sauce,  and  a  tea-cup  of  capers  stirred  in.  If 
capers  can  not  be  obtained,  cucumber  pickles  chopped  fine  is 
a  good  substitute. 

•  ROAST  MUTTON. 

A  roast  of  mutton  should  have  lard  or  butter  rubbed  over 
it,  and  when  half  done  a  spoonful  put  in  the  pan;  salt  and 


42  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


pepper  also.  If  it  is  a  leg,  it  is  improved  by  cutting  gashes 
and  filling  them  with  a  dressing  made  of  bread- crumbs,  pep- 
per, salt,  two  eggs,  butter  or  lard.  When  nearly  done, 
dredge  it  with  flour  and  baste  frequently.  Send  to  the  table 
with  its  own  gravy,  slightly  thickened  with  browned  flour. 

FRIED  MUTTON-CHOPS. 

Beat  some  eggs;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  roll  crack- 
ers fine.  Dip  the  mutton-chops  one  by  ono  in  the  egg,  then 
in  the  cracker  crumbs.     Fry  in  hot  lard. 

Mutton-chops  fried  in  bread-crumbs,  laid  on  macaroni  with 
slices  of  bread  fried  between,  make  a  pretty  dish. 

HASHED  MUTTON. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  cold  mutton,  fat  and  lean;  flour  these; 
have  ready  an  onion  boiled  in  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  water ; 
add  a  little  gravy  and  the  seasoned  meat;  let  it  get  hot,  but 
not  enough  to  boil.  Serve  in  a  covered  dish.  Instead  of 
onion,  a  clove,  a  spoonful  of  jelly,  one  half  glass  of  port  wine, 
will  give  venison  flavor,  if  the  mutton  is  good. 

AN  IRISH  STEW. 

Take  mutton-chops;  cover  well  with  water ;  let  them  come 
to  a  boil ;  pour  off  the  water ;  add  more.  Take  a  lump  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  egg,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  a  tea-cup 
of  milk,  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  also  a  few  Irish  po- 
tatoes and  one  small  onion.     Boil  until  the  potatoes  are  done. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

Three  and  a  half  pounds  of  the  finest  part  of  lean  and  fat 
of  a  leg  of  veal  chopped  very  fine,  three  soda-crackers  rolled 
fine,  two  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  a  thick  slice  of  salt  pork 
chopped  fine.  Mix  all  together;  put  bits  of  butter  and 
grated  bread-crumbs  over  it.     Bake  two  hours.     Put  some 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  ETC.  43 

Witter  in  another  pan,  and  set  in  it  the  one  containing  the  loaf. 
Bake  two  hours.     To  be  eaten  when  cold.     Cut  in  thin  slices. 

RICH    AMELLA. 

Mince  your  cold  veal  in  a  chopping-bowl,  leaving  out  the 
stringy  part.  Put  into  a  frying-pan  a  tea-cupful  or  more  of 
milk  or  sweet  cream,  into  which  stir,  when  hot,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter  and  flour  well  mixed  together;  then  add  the 
chopped  veal.  Add  a  small  piece  of  onion  and  thyme,  or 
parsley  chopped  very  fine  ;  heat  it  well  through ;  sprinkle 
over  it  a  little  mace.  This  is  delicious  for  breakfast,  and  can 
be  used  for  patties. 

PRESSED  VEAL  OR  BEEF. 

Three  pounds  of  veal  knuckle  well  broken;  boil  in  a  little 
water  until  very  tender;  pick  the  meat  to  pieces,  free  from 
gristle  and  bone.  Season  the  broth  highly ;  add  a  little 
lemon-peel;  butter  in  plenty ;  mix  with  the  meat;  add  enough 
bread-crumbs  to  thicken  ;  put  into  molds.     Eat  when  cold. 

VEAL  OLIVES. 
Slice  as  large  pieces  as  you  can  get  from  a  leg  of  veal. 
Make  a  stuffing  of  grated  bread,  butter,  a  small  onion  cut 
very  fine,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  a  little  black  pepper,  and 
spread  over  the  slices  of  veal;  beat  an  egg  and  put  over  the 
stuffing ;  roll  each  slice  up  tightly,  and  tie  with  a  thread  ;  stick 
a  few  cloves  in  them;  grate  bread-crumbs  thickly  over  them, 
after  they  are  put  in  the  skillet  with  butter,  and  onions  chop- 
ped fine.  When  done,  lay  them  on  a  dish,  make  your  gravy, 
and  pour  over  them.  Take  the  threads  off,  garnish  with  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  and  serve.     Cut  the  olives  in  slices. 

CONFEDERATE  VEAL. 

Take  two  pounds  of  the  round  of  white  veal;  beat  a  little  ; 
salt  well;  add  plenty  of  red  and  black  pepper;  flour  it  well, 
and  then  lard  it.     Chop  fine,  parsley,  thyme,  carrot,  and  a 


44  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


little  celery;  spread  these  over  as  a  paste;  then  grate  the  rind 
of  a  lemon  over  it.  After  squeezing  the  juice  of  a  lemon 
over  it,  roll  it  up,  tie  it  with  a  cord,  sprinkle  with  flour,  and 
fry  until  it  is  a  light  brown  ;  then  add  one  tea-cup  of  mush- 
rooms. After  pouring  enough  boiling  water  over  it  to  make 
considerable  gravy,  let  it  simmer  down;  then  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce. 

VEAL  CUTLETS. 

1.  Broiled. — When  properly  trimmed,  they  may  be  im- 
proved as  directed  for  veal.  Salt  and  pepper  both  sides; 
spread  a  little  melted  butter  on  both  sides,  also,  by  means 
of  a  brush ;  place  them  on  before  or  under  the  fire ;  baste 
now  and  then  with  melted  butter;  turn  over  one,  two,  or 
three  times,  and  when  rather  overdone,  serve  with  a  maitre 
d'  hotel  sauce  spread  all  over.  This  way  of  serving  them  is 
sometimes  called  au  naturel. 

2.  With  Crumbs. — When  trimmed,  dip  them  in  egg  beat- 
en with  salt,  pepper,  and  chopped  parsley ;  roll  them  in. bread- 
crumbs, and  then  broil  and  serve  them  as  the  above,  with  a 
maitre  d'  hotel. 

3.  Fines  Herbs. — Broil  the  chops  as  above,  either  with 
or  without  crumbs,  and  serve  them  with  sauce  aux  fines 
herbes. 

4.  With  Mushrooms. — When  broiled  and  dished,  sur- 
round them  with  a  garniture  of  mushrooms,  and  serve  warm. 
When  there  are  several  cutlets  on  the  dish,  and  placed  all 
around,  overlapping,  the  garniture  may  be  put  in  the  middle 
of  the  chops. 

FRIED  VEAL-CUTLETS. 


Pepper  and  salt  two  pounds  of  veal,  sliced  from  the  leg  and 
cut  in  pieces  half  the  size  of  your  hand.  Make  a  batter  of 
two  eggs  and  a  little  milk  well  beaten  together.  Have  a  tea- 
cupful  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  dip  each  piece  of  veal, 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  ETC.  45 

first  in  the  egg  batter,  and  then  in  the  crumbs,  and  fry  quick- 
ly in  boiling  lard. 

VEAL  OMELET. 

Three  pounds  of  raw  veal ;  four  slices  of  salt  pork  chopped 
fine;  three  eggs;  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk  ;  four 
powdered  crackers.  Season  with  thyme,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
pepper,  one  of  salt,  half  a  nutmeg.  Form  into  a  loaf,  and 
bake  two  or  three  hours  in  a  slow  oven.  Baste  with  a  little 
butter  melted  in  hot  water.     Cut  in  thin  slices  for  the  table. 

WELTON  VEAL. 

Boil  four  eggs  hard;  slice  them,  and  line  a  dish.  Then 
place  a  layer  of  raw  veal  cut  thin.  Mix  chopped  ham  with 
one  egg  and  sage  for  the  next  layer ;  then  another  of  sliced 
veal,  and  so  on,  till  the  dish  is  full.  Don't  forget  to  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Cover  with  aflat  cover;  put  a  weight  on 
top  to  press;  steam  four  hours.  To  be  eaten  cold,  cut  in 
thin  slices. 

VEAL  BOUILLI. 

Take  about  six  pounds  of  fat  veal,  and  cut  in  pieces  about 
the  size  for  stewing;  sprinkle  with  flour,  and  fry  brown.  In 
the  same  vessel  cut  up  and  fry  one  onion  and  two  pods  of 
garlic;  then  add  one  pint  of  prepared  tomatoes,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  and  the  same  of  salt.  When  nearly  done, 
cut  up  and  add  a  sprig  of  parsley.  This  will  require  two 
and  one  half  or  three  hours  slow  cooking. 

STUFFED  CALF'S-HEAD. 

Put  on  your  calf  s-head  to  boil,  with  two  sets  of  feet,  either 
calf  's-feet  or  hog's-feet.  When  perfectly  tender,  split  the 
head  on  the  under  side,  and  carefully  remove  the  bones,  not 
breaking  the  skin ;  also,  take  the  bones  from  the  feet,  and 
chop  fine.  Season  to  your  taste  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little 
onion,  or  any  other  seasoning  you  may  fancy.     Then  stuff 


46  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

the  skin  and  put  it  in  nice  shape  in  the  baking-pan ;  then 
return  it  to  the  stove  and  let  it  remain  until  a  light  brown; 
then  make  a  dressing  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  butter,  and  the 
brains  of  calf 's-head.     Serve  with  the  head. 

VEAL  SWEET-BREAD. 

Take  two  fresh  sweet-breads;  parboil  them  a  few  min- 
utes; then  lay  them  in  cold  water.  Beat  the  yelks  of  two 
eggs;  grate  some  cracker  crumbs.  When  the  sweet-breads 
are  cold,  wipe  them  dry;  then  dip  them  in  the  egg,  and  then 
in  the  crumbs ;  then  cook  them  with  a  little  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt,  to  a  nice  brown.  Make  a  gravy  by  adding  a  little 
veal  gravy  to  that  in  which  they  have  been  cooked,  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  Toast  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  dip  in  this 
gravy  and  lay  on  the  sweat-bread. 

FRIED  SWEET-BREADS.— No.  i. 

Parboil  them  a  few  minutes,  then  drop  them  in  cold  water; 
skin  them ;  roll  them  in  a  little  flour,  and  fry  moderately  in 
boiling  lard,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  .Remove  them 
from  the  fire,  and  stir  into  the  gravy  a  little  flour  and  hot 
water.  When  this  boils,  add  a  wine-glass  of  wine  or  catch- 
up. 

FRIED  SWEET-BREADS.— No.  2. 

Scald  them  in  salt  and  water;  take  out  the  stringy  part; 
then  put  them  in  cold  water  for  a  few  moments;  dry  them  in 
a  towel;  roll  some  crackers  or  bread-crumbs';  dip  the  sweet- 
bread in  the  yelk  of  an  egg  beaten;  roll  in  the  cracker,  and 
fry  brown  in  butter.  When  they  are  done,  put  them  on  a 
dish.  Pour  into  a  frying-pan  a  large  cup  of  sweet  cream,  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  green  parsley  chopped  fine: 
dust  in  a  very  little  flour,  and  when  it  boils  up,  pour  it  over 
the  sweet-breads  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  ETC.  47 

A  PIE  OF  SWEET-BREAD  AND  OYSTERS. 

Boil  the  sweetbreads  tender;  season  with  pepper  and  salt ; 
make  a  gravy  with  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled,  add- 
ing half  a  cnp  of  butter,  the  yelks  of  two  eggs,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour.  Line  the  dish  with  puff-paste ;  have  the 
same  quantity  of  oysters  as  of  sweet-breads;  lay  the  oysters 
in  first;  cover  with  sweet-breads,  and  fill  the  dish  with  gravy ; 
put  on  the  top  crust,  and  bake  slowly  until  done. 

STEWED  SWEET-BREADS. 

Prepare  them  by  parboiling  and  letting  them  remain  a  few 
minutes  in  cold  water,  to  whiten  them.  Stew  in  oyster-liquor 
until  tender;  then  take  them  off  and  remove  the  gristle,  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  few  oysters,  and  a  large  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.     Pour  on  buttered  toast. 

Toast  that  is  placed  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish  upon  which 
stews  or  gravies  are  to  be  poured,  should  be  trimmed  of  the 
crust  and  dipped  for  a  few  minutes  in  hot  water. 

BAKED  SWEET-BREAD. 

Boil  it  half  an  hour;  then  throw  it  in  cold  water,  to  plump 
out ;  roll  it  in  eggs  and  bread-crumbs,  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Lay  them  in  the  pan,  put  a  lump  of  butter  on  each, 
and  bake  them. 

FRIED  LIVER. 

Put  in  a  frying-pan  some  slices  of  bacon,  and  fry  out  the 
grease,  or  a  large  spoonful  of  lard.  Cut  the  liver  in  thin 
slices;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  dredge  with  flower,  and 
fry  a  good  brown.  It  will  require  a  longer  time  to  cook  than 
most  meats.  After  taking  up  the  liver,  pour  a  little  boiling 
water  to  the  grease  in  which  the  liver  has  been  fried,  and 
sprinkle  in  a  little  flour  to  thicken  the  gravy.  Let  it  boil 
up,  and  pour  over  the  liver. 


48  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

BEEF-KIDNEYS  FRIED. 

Kemove  all  the  fat  and  skin  from  the  kidneys;  cut  in  thin 
slices;  mix  with  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  parsley,  "and  onion 
chopped  fine ;  dredge  with  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  When 
the  kidneys  are  taken  out,  add  to  the  gravy  a  wine-glass  of 
wine,  a  little  lemon-juice,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

KIDNEYS  STEWED. 

Take  a  set  of  kidneys  and  put  in  a  stew-pan,  with  one  half 
pint  of  water,  two  table  -spoonfuls  of  butter,  three  onions 
sliced  thin,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  spoonful  of  flour. 

TO  BOIL  SMOKED  TONGUE. 

Soak  in  cold  water  all  night;  put  to  boil  in  a  pot  of  cold 
water.  Boil  gently  for  four  or  five  hours.  When  done,  peel 
and  trim. 

BAKED  TONGUE  WITH  TOMATO-SAUCE. 

Parboil  a  fresh  tongue  in  salt-water  until  done  enough  to 
peel.  Make  a  sauce  of  about  one  dozen  ripe  tomatoes,  one 
large  onion,  black  pepper,  and  salt;  stew  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes.  Put  the  tongue  in  a  baking-pan,  pour  over  it  the 
sauce,  and  bake  a  nice  brown. 

STEWED  BRAINS. 

Scald  a  set  of  brains,  to  draw  off  the  skin  and  blood.  Put 
the  brains  in  a  stew-pan,  with  just  enough  water  to  keep 
them  from  burning.  Season  with  a  large  table-spoonful  of 
butter;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  When  done,  stir  in  one 
table-spoonful  of  cream  or  milk,  with  one  table-spoonful  of 
flour. 

BRAINS  FRIED. 

Scald  a  set  of  brains,  to  take  out  the  blood.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  put  in  hot  butter.     When  nearly  done, 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  ETC.  49 

break  in  a  vessel  six  eggs,  and  turn   in  the   frying-pan  with 
the  brains;  cook  a  few  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time. 

FRIED  TRIPE. 

Cut  in  slices  after  being  well  boiled;  dip  each  piece  in 
thin  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  It  may  be  fried  without 
batter;  dredge  with  a  little  flour.  Serve  without  gravy.  In 
frying,  lay  the  rough  side  down  first. 

STEWED  TRIPE. 

After  the  tripe  is  boiled  tender,  cut  in  small  pieces  an  inch 
scpuare.  Make  a  dressing  of  cream  or  milk,  one  table-spoon- 
ful of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt;  dredge  a  little  flour  in  it;  one 
small  onion  chopped.  Stir  these  all  together ;  put  in  the 
tripe  one  table-spoonful  of  curry-powder,  and  stew  for  twen- 
ty minutes. 

ROAST  TURKEY. 

Cut  three  large-sized  onions  fine;  take  about  half  a  loaf  of 
bread,  soak  it  in  water,  then  squeeze  the  water  from  it. 
Put  in  a  frying-pan  two  heaping  table-spoonfuls  of  boiling 
lard;  put  the  onion  in,  and  when  nearly  done  add  the  bread, 
and  fry  until  perfectly  brown.  Season  with  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  butter;  red  and  black  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  a  little 
sage  may  be  used.  Then  put  in  about  thirty  or  forty  oysters, 
after  the  water  has  been  drained  off.  Salt  and  pepper  your 
turkey;  put  it  in  a  baking-pan;  then  stuff  it  with  the  above 
mixture;  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  it, two  table-spoonfuls  of 
lard,  and  the  water  that  has  been  drained  from  the  oysters, 
with  about  a  pint  of  water.  Baste  the  turkey  often,  and 
cook  brown. 

TO  ROAST  GOOSE. 

Pick,  draw,  and   singe  the  goose  well.     Cut  off  its  head 
and  neck.     Take  off  the  feet  and  legs  at  the  first  joint;  also, 
take  off  the  wings  at  the  first  joint.     Stuff  with  a  dressing 
4 


50  GULF  OITY  COOK-BOOK. 

made  of  bread-crumbs,  seasoned  highly  with  sage,  onion, 
pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  Cover  the  breast  with  buttered  pa- 
per, to  preserve  it  from  scorching,  and  roast  to  a  fine  brown. 
It  will  require  from  two  hours  to  two  hours  and  a  half  in 
roasting.  Baste  it  well  with  butter,  and  a  little  while  before 
it  is  done  remove  the  paper  and  allow  the  breast  to  brown. 
Serve  with  apple-sauce. 

WILD  DUCKS 

Prepare  your  dressing  as  you  would  for  any  other  fowl, 
with  the  addition  of  more  onion.  Dry  the  ducks,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  roll  in  flour.  Take  three  or  four 
whole  onions,  put  all  in  a  pan  with  hot  lard;  turn  frequently, 
until  brown;  add  water  enough  to  cover  the  fowls.  Cook 
until  there  is  just  enough  liquor  left  for  the  gravy. 

CANVAS-BACK  DUCKS. 

Have  the  ducks  wiped  dry,  and  stuffed  as  any  other  fowl. 
Rub  over  them  lard,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  roast  about  an 
hour.  Make  a  gravy  by  stirring  slowly  in  a  sauce-pan  the 
giblets  of  the  ducks  rolled  in  butter,  flour,  and  as  little  water 
as  possible.  Before  sending  to  the  table  a  little  lemon-juice 
squeezed  over  them  is  an  improvement. 

MOCK  DUCK. 

Take  a  flank  steak,  make  a  dressing,  the  same  as  for 
ducks,  spread  it  on  the  steak,  then  roll  and  tie  tight  with  a 
string,  to  keep  the  roll  in  shape;  lay  it  in  a  pan  with  a  little 
water  and  lard,  sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt.  Bake  in  the 
oven  of  the  stove. 

SALMIS  OF  COLD  GAME,  GOOSE,  OR  DUCK. 

Put  into  a  sauce-pan  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  let  it 
molt,  but  not  brown;  add  half  a  glass  of  broth,  the  same  of 
red  wine,  two  whole  shallots,  and  a  bunch  of  mixed  herbs,— 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  ETC.  51 

to  be  taken  out  before  serving, — pepper  and  a  little  salt;  boil 
together  for  half  an  hour.  Cut  up  the  game  or  duck  warm, 
but  do  not  boil  it  in  this  sauce,  and  add  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon.  Garnish  the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  fried  slices  of 
bread,  and  put  the  game  upon  it.  Pour  the  sauce  over  it 
and  serve. 

BIRD-PIE. 

Take  about  eight  doves,  and  make  a  stuffing  of  bread  and 
onions.  Stuff  each  bird,  then  put  into  a  stew-pan  about  a 
table-spoonful  of  lard,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour;  let  it 
brown  perfectly;  cut  a  small  onion  very  fine,  and  fry  it,  add- 
ing the  birds,  which  should  fry  awhile  before  putting  a  pint 
of  water  over  them,  and  let  them  boil  until  done.  Take 
them  out;  add  about  two  dozen  oysters,  with  a  little  of  the 
oyster- water,  to  the  gravy,  a  table-spoonful  of  butter,  salt, 
black  pepper,  allspice,  and  nutmeg;  then  line  a  baking-dish 
with  pastry,  put  the  birds  in  with  the  gravy,  and  cover  it 
over  with  pastry  and  bake. 

SQUABS. 

Squabs  are  in  the  best  condition  to  eat  when  fully  feather- 
ed. Broil  on  hot  coals,  seasoned  with  melted  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt.  Serve  on  toast.  A  pie  made  of  squabs,  as  you 
would  make  chicken-pie,  is  an  excellent  dish. 

BOILED  CHICKEN. 

For  boiling,  choose  a  fat  fowl.  Fill  the  breast  with  force- 
meat or  stuffing,  and  tie  carefully  round  the  body,  or  secure 
by  sewing,  which  should  be  removed  before  sending  to  the 
table.  Put  it  in  hot  water,  and  boil  gently  till  done.  Serve 
with  drawn  butter-sauce,  in  which  three  or  four  hard-boiled 
eggs  have  been  chopped.  This  sauce  can  be  made  orna- 
mental by  chopping  one  boiled  beet  fine,  and  mixing  with  it. 
Pour  part  of  the  sauce  over  the  chicken,  to  garnish  it,  and 
put  the  remainder  in  a  sauce-boat,  to  be  served  out  as  dished. 


52  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

CHICKEN  POT-PIE. 

Cut  up  a  chicken  at  the  joints, — as  for  frying.  Make  a 
rich  dough  or  crust ;  place  in  the  bottom  of  a  pot,  or  large 
sauce-pan,  a  layer  of  the  chicken,  pepper,  salt,  bits  of  butter, 
and  strips  or  squares  of  the  dough;  then  place  another  layer 
of  chicken,  and  over  all  put  a  crust  of  the  dough  in  which  an 
opening  is  left  to  pour  a  little  water  as  the  pie  becomes  too 
dry.  Cover  the  pot  closely,  and  cook  about  an  hour  and 
three  quarters. 

CHICKEN-PIE  WITH  EGGS. 

To  one  chicken,  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  one  cup  of  but- 
ter. Cut  the  chicken  as  for  frying;  parboil  in  sufficient 
water, — in  which  you  put  a  little  salt, — to  cook  it  tender. 
Line  a  baking-pan  with  puff-paste  ;  put  in  a  layer  of  chicken, 
then  a  layer  of  the  eggs,  with  bits  of  the  butter;  sprinkle 
well  with  black  pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste,  then  another 
layer  of  chicken,  eggs,  butter,  and  pepper,  until  all  are  in 
the  pan ;  cover  the  whole  with  the  water  in  which  the 
chicken  was  boiled ;  add  a  top  crust  and  bake. 

BROILED  CHICKEN. 

Cut  the  chicken  open  in  the  back,  and  lay  it  in  salt-water 
for  an  hour,  to  extract  all  the  blood ;  then  wipe  quite  dry  with 
a  napkin  or  towel,  and  lay  on  a  hot  gridiron,  over  clear 
coals.  Have  in  a  pan  some  melted  butter  and  pepper,  with 
which  to  baste  while  broiling.  .  Brown  the  chicken  on  both 
sides,  and  when  dished  pour  over  it  the  remainder  of  the 
melted  butter.  Only  young  and  tender  chickens  should  be 
used  for  broiling. 

TO  COOK  AN  OLD  CHICKEN. 

Wash  carefully  and  fill  with  buttered  bread-crumbs,  sea- 
soned with  pepper,  salt,  and  thyme;  put  in  a  pot  with  a 
tight-fitting  cover,  with  about  a  pint  of  water ;  turn  often,  and 
cook  two  hours,  or  until  tender. 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  ETC.  53 

TO  FRY  CHICKEN. 

Beat  two  eggs,  to  which  add  a  little  milk ;  pepper  and  salt 
your  chicken,  dip  it  in  the  eggs  and  milk;  then  roll  in  pow- 
dered crackers,  and  fry  in  lard  or  butter  until  brown. 

CHICKEN  NA  LA  MANGE. 

Cut  a  raw  chicken  into  two  parts.  Put  half  a  tea-cup  of 
sweet-oil  in  a  sauce-pan;  let  it  get  hot;  put  your  chicken  in, 
and  fry  it  brown  on  both  sides;  add  a  small  onion,  or  a  quar- 
ter of  garlic,  chopped  with  parsley,  to  suit  the  taste;  dredge 
with  flour,  and  fill  the  sauce-pan  with  water,  so  as  to  cover 
the  chicken.  Cover  it  very  close,  and  stew  inside  the  stove 
until  done.  Fry  a  dozen  eggs  on  both  sides,  and  serve  with 
the  chicken. 

CHICKEN  FRICASSEE. 

Prepare  a  chicken;  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  put  them  into 
a  sauce-pan,  with  half  an  onion,  a  small  piece  of  mace,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  root  celery  ;  let  all  boil  slowly  until  the 
chicken  is  tender  and  cooked,  without  falling  to  pieces,  the 
water  simmered  away.  Just  before  serving,  beat  up  the 
yelks  of  two  eggs;  pour  to  them  the  broth  of  the  chicken, 
hot,  and  stirring  well;  pour  it  back  upon  the  chicken,  but  do 
not  let  it  boil,  or  it  will  curdle. 

FRICASSEE  CHICKEN  WITH  APPLE. 

Dress  and  disjoint  a  fowl.  Place  it  in  a  deep  kettle,  with 
sufficient  water  to  cover  it,  and  a  little  salt.  When  quite 
tender  pour  off  the  liquor  and  brown  nicely  in  salt  pork  fat. 
Thicken  the  gravy  and  season  with  pepper.  To  one  good- 
sized  chicken  take  eight  tart  apples,  wipe,  halve,  and  take 
out  the  cores.  Set  them  over  the  chicken,  skin  side  down, 
then  pour  on  the  gravy,  cover  tightly,  and  let  them  cook 
ten  minutes,  or  till  tender.  Serve  the  apple  upon  a  sep- 
arate dish,  and  eat  as  sauce.     If  the  gravy  needs  butter,  add 


54  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

it  after  the  apple  is  taken  out.     Young  turkeys  are  nice  pre- 
pared in  this  way. 

.   POUL^ET  ^A  LA  MARANGE. 

Fry  the  chicken  in  lard,  brown  as  for  gumbo,  with  onion. 
Of  course,  the  chicken  must  be  cut.  When  well  done  put  it 
in  a  stew-pan  and  cover  it  with  water.  Let  it  simmer  slow- 
ly j  season  with  pepper,  salt,  butter,  and  a  box  of  mushrooms. 
Garnish  the  dish  with  toast  and  eggs  fried  on  both  sides ;  or 
if  you  prefer,  you  may  use  pastry-cakes.  A  little  wine,  red 
or  white,  a  few  olives,  with  seed  taken  out.  Some  pickle  and 
parsley  is  nice  to  garnish  the  dish.  Very  nice  made  of  cold 
turkey. 

A  NICE  WAY  TO  COOK  CHICKEN. 

Prepare  a  nice  frying-size  chicken ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper;  fry  in  batter  a  nice  brown.  Lay  on  a  dish  in  which 
you  are  going  to  serve.  Make  a  sauce  of  five  or  six  large 
tomatoes,  chopped,  a  small  onion,  a  little  cream,  pepper  and 
salt,  stewed  for  five  or  ten  minutes.  Pour  over  the  chicken, 
and  serve  hot. 

CHICKEN  VA  LA  BRUNSWICK. 

Take  two  fat  young  chickens;  cut  them  up,  not  too  fine. 
Put  into  a  good-sized  sauce-pan  one  table-spoonful  of  lard,  one 
of  butter ;  brown  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sifted  flour  into  the 
lard  and  butter,  with  an  onion  chopped  fine.  Salt  and  pep- 
per your  chicken  to  taste.  Slice  three  or  four  pieces  of  salt 
pork  or  fat  from  a  ham;  fry  it  with  the  lard,  butter,  flour,  and 
onion.  Have  ready,  peeled  and  cut  fine,  one  quart  of  new 
Irish  potatoes,  one  quart  of  tomatoes,  one  of  Lima  beans,  one 
of  green  peas,  one  of  green  corn,  and  a  glass  of  good  claret 
wine.  First,  bi*own  the  flour,  then  add  the  onion,  then  the 
chicken,  then  the  vegetables,  with  just  enough  boiling  water 
to  cover  the  ingredients;  let  it  boil  until  done.     Just  before 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  ETC.  55 

taking  up  add  the  wine:  let  it  stay  about  ten  minutes.     Stir 
well,  and  serve  hot, 

JELLIED  CHICKEN. 

Take  one  large  chicken,  or  two  small  ones;  boil  them  in  a 
quart  of  water  until  tender.  Cut  off  the  meat,  put  the  skin 
and  bones  back  into  the  liquor  and  boil  it  down  to  a  pint  of 
jelly — about  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Chop  up  the  meat 
of  the  chicken  and  pound  it  fine;  add  to  it  a  tea-spoonful  of 
powdered  mustard,  one  of  salt,  one  of  butter,  a  little  pepper, 
and  half  a  tea-cupful  of  the  liquid  jelly,  from  which  you  must 
strain  the  bones  and  skin;  the  remainder  of  the  liquid  jelly 
pour  into  the  bottom  and  let  it  cool.  Put  the  pounded 
chicken  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  warm  it,  so  that  all  the  ingredi- 
ents may  be  thoroughly  mixed;  then  let  it  cool,  and  spread 
it  on  the  top  of  the  jelly,  in  the  mold.  Set  the  mold  in  a 
cool  place.  When  wanted  to  use,  set  the  mold,  for  an  in- 
stant, in  hot  water,  and  turn  out  like  blanc-mange' . 

TURKEY  GELATINE. 

Chop  fine  and  separately  the  meat  of  a  cold  turkey,  some 
sliced  ham,  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  some  mustard  pickles, 
and  put  them  in  a  mold  in  alternate  layers.  Place  the  rem- 
nants and  bones  in  a  stew-pan,  with  some  thyme,  mace,  pep- 
per, half  an  ounce  of  isinglass,  and  enough  water  to  cover, 
and  allow  it  to  boil  gently  and  thoroughly.  When  done, 
strain  it  through  a  sieve  and  pour  on  the  chicken  in  the 
mold.  Turn  out  when  cold.  Chicken  may  be  used  instead 
of  turkey,  if  desired. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW. 

At  ten  o'clock  put  on  two  slices  of  fat  bacon,  and  one  onion 
cut  fine,  and  boil  one  hour.  Then  put  on  two  quarts  of  to- 
matoes, skimmed,  or  mashed  well,  and  boil  one  hour;  then  put 
in  a  large  pod  of  red  pepper,   and  two  chickens,  cut  as  for 


56  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


frying,  and  stew  until  two  o'clock;  then  put  in  one  cup  of 
butter,  and  stale  bread-crumbs  for  gravy.  Add  two  ears  of 
corn,  first  boiled  and  cut  from  the  cobs,  some  Irish  potatoes, 
mashed;  salt  to  taste,  and  serve  hot.  A  squirrel  could  be 
used  instead  of  chicken. 

"TO  COOK  A  CHICKEN  LIKE  TARRAPIN." 

Boil  a  fine,  fat,  young  chicken;  when  done  and  warm,  cut 
all  the  meat  from  the  bones,  in  small  pieces,  as  for  chicken- 
salad.  Put  into  a  stew-pan  with  one  gill  of  boiling  water; 
then  stir  together,  until  perfectly  smooth,  one  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  one  tea- spoonful  of  flour,  and  the  yelk  of  a 
hard-boiled  egg.  Add  to  the  chicken  half  the  mixture  at  a 
time  ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  After  letting  it  simmer  ten 
minutes,  add  a  wine-glass  of  sherry  or  Madeira.  Add  spice 
and  mushroom;   catchup  to  taste. 

PILLAU. 

Boil  one  pint  of  rice  in  as  much  water  as  will  cover  it. 
When  boiled,  put  in  a  chicken  with  one  onion,  a  blade  of 
mace,  some  whole  pepper,  and  salt.  When  it  is  boiled  suf- 
ficiently put  the  fowl  in  a  dish,  and  pour  the  rice  in  it.  A 
small  piece  of  bacon  boiled  with  the  rice,  and  then  taken 
out,  adds  to  the  flavor.  Boil  several  eggs  hard,  and  slice 
over  the  chicken. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

The  lean  of  chicken,  free  from  skin,  minced  finely  with  a 
little  ham  and  stale  broad-crumbs.  The  proportions  will  be 
six  table-spoonfuls  of  meat,  two  of  bread-crumbs,  very  fine,  a 
shade  of  nutmeg,  pepper,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  onions,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  minced  parsley;  put  all  on  with  half  a  pint  of 
stock — your  sou])  for  dinner  will  answer.  When  it  comes  to 
a  boil  mix  a  couple  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  some  cream, 
and  stew  until  it  thickens.     Spread  it  out  on  a  dish  to  cool ; 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  ETC.  57 

shape  like  an  egg.  Roll  in  crumbs,  and  throw  them  into 
very  hot  lard,  and  fry  quickly.  Serve  on  a  napkin  with 
parsley.  Brains  stewed  with  the  above  is  a  great  improve- 
ment.    Veal  croquettes  are  made  in  the  same  way. 

TO  MAKE  CROQUETTES. 
Take  cold  chicken  or  veal,  with  slices  of  ham,  fat  and  lean ; 
chop  them  together  very  fine,  and  add  a  set  of  brains,  mashed 
very  fine  also.  Mix  with  stale  bread,  grated  and  seasoned  to 
your  taste ;  knead  all  well  together,  until  it  resembles  sausage- 
meat.  Make  up  in  little  balls;  dip  them  in  the  yelks  of  eggs 
beaten;  cover  them  quickly  with  grated  bread,  and  fry  them 
a  light  brown. 

JAM  BOLAYA. 

Have  the  lard  hot,  put  in  flour,  cook  to  a  light  brown, 
with  a  medium-sized  onion.  Take  the  giblets,  neck,  small 
part  of  the  wings  and  feet  of  your  chicken,  and  put  in  the 
lard;  add  half  a  tea-cup  of  prepared  tomatoes,  two  dozen 
oysters,  with  their  liquor,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  put  in 
nearly  a  pint  of  rice,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter;  stir  fre- 
quently when  nearly  done ;  set  back  on  the  stove  and  let 
steam. 

VENISON  VA  LA  MODE. 

Remove  the  bone  from  the  haunch,  and  make  a  large 
quantity  of  force-meat,  or  stuffing  of  bread-crumbs,  bits  of 
pork,  an  onion  minced  fine,  a  small  piece  of  celery,  or  celery, 
seed,  parsley,  and  sage.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Press  in  the  stuffing  till  the  hole  left  by  the  bone  is 
filled.  Sew  up  the  opening  and  spread  over  it  nice  lard; 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Cook  well  done;  take  out  the 
meat,  stir  in  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour,  a  wine-glass  of  wine; 
let  it  boil  up  once,  and  serve  in  a  sauce-bowl. 
HAUNCH  OF  VENISON. 

A  good  haunch  of  venison  will  take  three  or  four  hours  to 


58  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

roast.  It  being  a  dry  meat  it  would  be  well  to  cover  it  with 
a  paste  made  of  flour  and  water,  until  nearly  done;  cover 
this  with  a  thick  piece  of  paper,  tied  on.  Baste  the  paper 
well  with  butter,  to  keep  it  from  catching  on  fire.  When 
this  is  removed  baste  well  with  the  drippings  seasoned  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  browned  flour  sprinkled  over.  But- 
ter or  lard  may  be  necessary  to  afford  sufficient  gravy. 
This  meat  should  be  accompanied  with  a  tart  jelly. 

VENISON  STEAKS. 

Cut  the  steaks  about  an  inch  thick,  sprinkle  with  flour,  fry 
in  hot  lard  or  butter.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  when 
half  done;  turn  frequently.  Take  out  the  steak  when  done, 
stir  a  little  flour  in  the  pan,  and  pour  enough  hot  water  on 
to  make  sufficient  gravy.  Let  it  boil  up;  then  pour  in  a 
wine-glassful  of  wine,  and  pour  over  the  steak. 

ANOTHER  WAY  TO  COOK  VENISON  STEAKS. 

Put  it  in  a  well-covered  pun,  and  heat  it  thoroughly  with- 
out water.  Take  it  out,  and  when  cool  enough  to  handle 
press  it,  so  as  to  extract  all  the  juice.  Mix  with  the  juice  a 
table-spoonful  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  mustard,  vine- 
gar, and  walnut  catchup,  and  put  on  the  stove  until  they  are 
well  mixed.  Eeturn  the  steak  to  the  covered  pan,  and  pour 
the  gravy  over  it  and  cook  gently  till  done.  It  will  not  take 
much  time,  as  the  meat  is  partially  cooked.  This  method  is 
equally  good  for  beefsteak. 

BARBECUE. 

To  barbecue  any  kind  of  meat  is  simply  to  broil  it.  When 
you  wish  to  cook  a  whole  mutton,  or  any  other  animal,  have 
a  large  pit  dug  in  the  ground,  and  several  hours  before  cook- 
ing make  a  good  fire  of  oak-wood,  and  let  it  burn  to  a  bed  of 
coals.  Place  over  the  top  of  this  pit  strips  of  dry  wood,  upon 
which  you  place  your  meat.     Make  a  sauce  of  butter,  vine- 


MEATS,  POULTRY,  ETC.  59 

gar,  mustard,  salt,  pepper,  catchup,  and  baste  the  meat  fre- 
quently; use  a  stick  with  a  piece  of  cloth  tied  on  the  end,  to 
baste  with.  To  cook  meat  in  this  way  requires  constant  at- 
tention. Turn  the  meat  often.  A  smaller  piece  of  meat  can 
be  cooked  in  the  same  manner,  on  a  gridiron,  over  hot  coals. 

SQUIRREL  STEWED. 

Skin  them  very  carefully,  \o  as  not  to  allow  the  hair  to 
touch  the  flesh ;  this  can  be  done  by  cutting  a  slit  under  the 
throat,  and  as  you  pull  it  off,  turn  the  skin  over,  so  as  to  in- 
close the  hair.  Cut  the  squirrel  in  pieces  (discard  the  head), 
and  lay  them  in  cold  water;  put  a  large  table-spoonful  of  lard 
in  a  stew-pan,  with  an  onion  sliced,  and  a  table-spoonful  of 
flour;  let  fry  until  the  flour  is  brown,  then  put  in  a  pint  of 
water,  the  squirrel  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook 
until  tender.  When  half  done  put  in  some  strips  of  nice 
puff-paste  and  a  little  butter. 

SQUIRREL  BROILED. 

Broil  over  hot  coals,  and  baste  frequently  with  melted  but- 
ter, pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  vinegar.  Rabbits  should  be 
prepared  in  the  same  manner  as  squirrels. 

TO  COOK  FROGS. 

Put  the  hind  legs  in  salt  and  water  over  night.  Wipe 
them  dry  with  a  cloth;  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  them,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard  to  a  light  brown;  or,  they  can  be  rolled  in  egg 
and  cracker-dust  before  frying. 

FROGS  STEWED.  . 

Skin,  boil  five  minutes,  throw  into  cold  water,  and  drain  as 
above.  Put  in  a  stew-pan  two  ounces  of  butter,  for  two  dozen 
frogs;  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  when  melted  lay  the  legs  in  ; 
fry  two  minutes,  tossing  now  and  then;  then  sprinkle  on 
them  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour;  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  ;  add 


60  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

two  sprigs  of  parsley,  one  of  thyme,  a  bay- leaf,  two  cloves, 
one  of  garlic,  salt,  white  pepper,  and  half  a  pint  of  white 
wine;  boil  gen tl}7  till  done,  dish  the  legs,  reduce  the  sance 
on  the  fire,  strain  it,  mix  in  it  the  yelks  of  two  eggs;  pour 
on  the  le°;s  and  serve  them. 


EGGS.  (jl 


EGGS. 


BOILED  EGGS. 

Put  eggs  into  boiling  water.  If  you  wish  the  whites  set, 
boil  two  minutes;  if  you  wish  the  yelks  set,  boil  three  min- 
utes; if  for  a  salad  it  will  require  ten  minutes. 

TO  POACH  EGGS. 

Break  into  a  vessel  of  boiling  water  as  many  eggs  as  will 
cover  the  bottom;  best  not  to  touch.  Let  them  cook  until 
the  whites  are  set.  Take  up  with  a  perforated  skimmer, 
pour  melted  butter  over  them,  and  dust  with  pepper  and 
salt.     They  are  nice  served  on  toast. 

TO  SCRAMBLE  EGGS. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  bowl,  and  stir  in  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  a  good  piece  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it  is 
hot  pour  in  the  eggs,  stirring  all  the  time ;  a  few  minutes 
will  be  sufficient.     Grated  ham  is  an  improvement. 

EGG-TOAST. 

Boil  one  tea-cup  of  milk,  thickened  with  a  little  flour  or 
corn-starch,  and  one  table-spoonful  of  butter;  stir  in  your 
eggs  that  have  been  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  cook  un- 
til the  whites  are  set.     Pour  over  buttered  toast  while  hot 

OMELET. 

Beat  six  eggs  very  light — the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  the 
yelks  to  a  smooth  batter.     Add  to  the  yelks  a  small  cup  of 


62  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

milk,  pepper,  and  salt;  lastly,  stir  in  the  whites  lightly. 
Have  ready  in  a  hot  frying-pan  a  good  lump  of  butter;  when 
it  hisses  pour  in  the  mixture  gently  and  set  over  a  clear 
fire.  It  should  cook  in  ten  minutes.  To  be  eaten  as  soon 
as  cooked,  as  it  will  fall. 

SHIRRED  EGGS. 

Take  as  many  saucers  or  small  earthen  plates  as  are  re- 
quired for  each  person.  Break  into  each  two  eggs,  being 
careful  not  to  break  the  yelks,  and  place  in  a  well-heated 
stove  to  bake,  the  whites  only  to  be  done,  the  yelks  half 
done.  They  are  to  be  eaten  out  of  the  saucers,  and  sea- 
soned to  taste  at  the  table. 

FRIED  EGGS. 

Break  the  eggs  in  hot  lard  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 
It  is  best  to  break  the  eggs  in  a  saucer  before  putting  in  the 
frying-pan,  as  some  may  not  be  good.  Do  not  turn  them 
over.     Serve  with  fried  ham. 

BAKED  EGGS. 

Boil  one  dozen  eggs  until  perfectly  hard,  then  put  in  cold 
water;  shell,  and  divide  the  egg  in  half,  remove  the  yelk 
and  mash  up  smooth,  add  a  few  bread-crumbs,  season  with 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Fill  the  whites  of  eggs  with  this 
dressing;  grate  a  cracker  over  the  top,  and  bake  to  a  light 
brown. 

STUFFED   EGGS. 

Boil  the  eggs  hard  ;  put  in  cold  water.  Cut  out  the  small 
end  of  the  eggs,  take  out  the  yelks,  put  in  a  bowl,  and  mash 
well,  with. a  small  onion  and  a  little  celery  chopped  fine,  four 
spoonfuls  of  cream,  black  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  .one 
table-spoonful  of  butter;  stuff  the  whites  with  the  mixture 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


EGGS.  63 

OMELET  SOUFFLE'. 

Half  a  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  flour, 
one  pint  of  milk;  mix  well  together,  set  it  on  the  fire  and 
stir  until  it  thickens,  then  add  the  yelks  of  five  eggs,  well 
beaten,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  -eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  mix  well  in  the  above.  Put  in  a  pudding- 
dish  well  buttered,  and  bake  in  a  tolerably  hot  oven.  Eat 
warm,  with  or  without  sauce. 

OMELET  WITH  HAM. 

Six  eggs  beaten  separately,  season  with  pepper  and  salt ; 
add  grated  ham,  and  fry  in  small  cakes  in  boiling  butter. 

PICKLED  EGGS. 

Scald  one  quart  of  vinegar,  with  a  half  dozen  cloves,  one 
dozen  allspice,  one  tea-spoonful  of  pepper,  one  table -spoonful 
of  flour  of  mustard.  Pour  this  over  one  dozen  hard-boiled 
eggs  that  have  been  shelled  and  placed  in  a  jar.  When  eggs 
are  boiled  hard  and  are  intended  to  be  used  when  cold,  they 
should  be  thrown  immediately  into  cold  water,  to  keep  them 
from  becoming  discolored. 

EGG-BALLS  FOR  SOUP. 

Kub  the  yelks  of  three  or  four  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth 
paste,  with  a  very  little  butter  and  salt;  add  to  these  two 
raw  ones,  beaten  light,  and  enough  flour  to  hold  the  paste 
together.  Make  into  balls,  with  floured  hands,  and  set  in  a 
cool  place  until  just  before  your  soup  is  taken  off,  when  put 
in  carefully  and  boil  one  minute. 

EGGS  A  LA  CR^EME 

Hard-boil  twelve  eggs ;  slice  them  in  thin  rings ;  have  ready 
a  plateful  of  grated  bread-crumbs.  In  the  bottom  of  a  large 
baking-dish  place  a  layer  of  the  crumbs,  then  one  of  the 
eggs;  cover  with  bits  of  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and 
salt.     Continue  thus  to  blend  these  ingredients  until   the 


64  GUL*    CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

dish  is  full,  having  the  crumbs  on  the  top.  Over  the  whole 
pour  a  large  tea-cupful  of  cream,  and  brown  nicely  in  a 
moderately  heated  oven.  • 

TO  TEST  EGGS. 

Put  them  in  water;  if  the  large  end  turns  up  they  are  not 
fresh.  You  can  depend  on  any  egg  that  will  lay  on  the 
side  in  water  and  not  float. 

FRIED  EGG-TOAST,  OR  DUTCH  TOAST. 

Slice  bread,  and  butter  it;  beat  five  or  six  eggs  very  light, 
and  dip  into  them  each  slice  of  bread,  and  fry  in  hot  butter; 
pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste  just  as  you  take  from  the  fire. 
Serve  hot. 


SALADS.  65 


SALADS. 


CHICKEN  SALAD.— No.  I. 

•  Dressing. — Twelve  hard-boiled  eggs;  rub  the  yelks  in  one 
tea-cupful  of  olive-oil,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  ground  mustard, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  ground  pepper,  one  table-spoonful  of 
Worcestershire  sauce,  one  half  tea-cupful  of  tomato  catchup, 
one  half  tea-cupful  of  vinegar,  three  good-sized  pickles,  chop- 
ped fine,  and  salt  to  taste;  two  stalks  of  celery  chopped,  and 
if  this  can  not  be  obtained  use  a  small  head  of  cabbage,  well 
chopped,  and  celery-seed  as  a  substitute.  The  above  will 
answer  for  one  chicken,  which  should  be  well  boiled,  freed 
from  bones,  and  chopped;  mix  all  together  and  cut  up  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  fine ;  mix  a  part  with  the  salad,  and  strew 
a  portion  over  the  top. 

CHICKEN  SALAD.— No.  2. 

For  about  one  pound  of  chicken,  after  it  is  minced,  use  six 
or  eight  eggs,  boiled  hard;  separate  the  yelks  and  whites; 
mash  the  yelks  to  a  smooth  paste,  in  five  or  six  table-spoon- 
fuls of  sweet  olive-oil,  or  the  same  of  melted  butter  if  pre- 
ferred ;  add  to  this  a  tea  spoonful  of  pepper,  and  the  same  of 
salt,  two  even  table-spoonfuls  of  dry  mustard,  a  half  tumbler- 
ful of  good  vinegar,  one  table-spoonful  of  sugar.  Stir  these 
all  together ;  mince  half  as  much  white  lettuce  as  there  is 
chicken,  and  the  same  of  white,'  tender  celery.  If  celery  can 
not  be  obtained,  use  a  little  extract  of  celery  and  more  let- 
tuce. Mix  these  well  with  the  meat,  using  a  wooden  or  sil- 
ver fork.     The  whites  of  the  eggs  may  be  minced  and  mixed 

5 


66  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK 

with  it,  or  reserved  to  garnish  the  salad-dish,  by  cutting  them 
in  rings;  add  the  sauce  just  before  serving.  A  few  small 
white  lettuce-leaves,  trim  very  nicely. 

CHICKEN  SALAD.— No.  3. 

To  each  chicken  allow  ten  eggs ;  chop  the  whites  very  fine ; 
mix  thoroughly  with  the  chicken,  rub  to  a  smooth  paste  the 
yelks  and  allow  half  a  tea-spoonful  each  of  mustard,  black 
pepper  and  salt,  a  sufficient  quantity  of  vinegar  to  make  it 
palatable;  also  one  table-spoonful  of  oil,  or  the  same  quan- 
tity of  melted  butter.     Celery  to  be  used  according,  to  taste. 

DRESSING  FOR  CHICKEN  SALAD, 

Yelks  of  four  eggs,  beaten  well,  one  tea-spoonful  of  sugar, 
one  salt-spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  two  tea-spoonfuls  made 
mustard,  six  table-spoonfuls  salad-oil,  five  of  celery- vinegar ; 
stir  all  well  and  put  in  a  sauce-pan,  boil  three  minutes,  stir- 
ring all  the  time;   when  cold  pour  over  chicken  salad. 

LOBSTER   SALAD. 

To  a  can  of  lobsters  make  a  dressing  of  one  tea-spoonful 
of  salt,  one  tea-spoonful  of  pepper,  one  table-spoonful  of 
mixed  mustard,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  olive-oil,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  good  vinegar,  the  yelks  of  three  hard-boiled 
eggs,  rubbed  smooth.     Garnish  with  lettuce. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Peel  and  slice  four  boiled  potatoes;  chop  fine  half  small 
onion,  one  bunch  celery,  and  the  whites  of  three  hard-boiled 
eggs.  The  yelks  mix  with  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  oil,  and 
vinegar  to  taste. 

IRISH-POTATO  SALAD. 

Take  a  couple  of  cold  potatoes,  cut  fine,  with  half  a  raw 
onion;  put  sweet  oil,  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar  upon  them. 


SALADS.  67 

TOMATO  AND  POTATO  SALAD. 

Slice   four   tomatoes,   four   Irish   potatoes,   cold,  and   one 

onion.     Make  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  onions  and  tomatoes, 

alternating,  until  all  are  used;  pour  over  this  a  dressing  as 

for  potato  salad,  and  when  ready  to  use  place  on  top  a  lump 

of  ice. 

ITALIAN  SALAD. 

Soak  in  water  six  herrings  for  one  hour;    skin  and   bone 

them ;  cut  up  six  boiled  Irish  potatoes,  six  onions,  six  apples. 

six  hard-boiled  egg$>,  half  pound  of  cold  veal  or  fowl,  half 

pound  salt  anchovies;  chop  fine  and  mix  together  with  four 

table-spoonfuls  of  capers,  and  half  dozen  pickles,  and  one    • 

dozen  olives;   add  three  table-spoonfuls  of  olive-oil,  pepper, 

and   vinegar  to  suit.     Place   on   a   dish   and  ornament  with 

olives,  the  yelks  and  whites  of  eggs,  parsley,  capers,  and  red 

beets. 

SOLFERINO. 

Equal  quantities  of  grated  ham,  mashed  boiled  Irish  pota-*"" 
toes,  peeled  raw  tomatoes,  chopped  fine,  and  a  little  chopped 
onion.     Then  make  a   sauce  of  drawn  butter,  mustard,  and 
vinegar;  pour  over  immediately. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

One  tea-cupful  of  vinegar,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  butter 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  mustard, 
half  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one  egg,  half  tea-cupful  of  milk.  The 
vinegar,  butter,  and  sugar  put  on  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  the 
other  ingredients  beat  together ;  add  to  the  vinegar  after  it 
cools  a  little,  then  put  on  the  fire  and  boil  to  the  thickness  of 
cream.     Add  table-oil,  according  to  taste. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Take  half  a  tumbler  of  vjnegar,  one  table-spoonful  of  but- 
ter, one  tea-spoonful  of  sugar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  mustard.     Put  it  all  on  the  fire  and  let  it 


68  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

come  to  a  boil;  then  stir  in  quickly  two  eggs,  beaten  well,  the 
whites  and  yelks  beaten  separately,  and  very  light;  take  off 
immediately.     Serve  when  cold. 

SALMON  SALAD. 

If  the  salmon  salad  is  made  of  the  fish  preserved  in  cans, 
drain  it  from  the  oil,  and  mince  the  meat  fine;  cut  up  one 
third  as  much  lettuce  or  celery.  For  one  box  of  salmon  boil 
four  eggs  hard,  lay  them  in  cold  water  a  few  minutes,  shell 
and  separate  the  whites  and  yelks,  and  lay  the  whites  aside. 
Mash  the  yelks  smooth  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet 
olive-oil  or  one  tea-cupful  of  sweet  milk  or  cream;  add  one 
tea-cupful  of  vinegar,  one  table-spoonful  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  two  or  more  tea-spoonfuls  of  fine  mustard, 
pepper  to  the  taste,  and  .toss  lightly  over  the  meat  with  a 
silver  fork.  Ornament  with  the  leaves  of  the  celery,  or  with 
curled  parsley,  and  the  whites  of  eggs,  cut  in  rings. 

OYSTER   SALAD. 

Take  half  a  gallon  of  fresh  oysters,  the  yelks  of  four  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  one  raw  egg,  well  whipped,  two  spoonfuls  salad- 
oil,  or  melted  butter,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt,  two  tea-spoon- 
fuls of  black  pepper,  two  tea-spoonfuls  made  mustard,  one 
tea-cupful  of  good  vinegar,  nearly  as  much  celery  as  oysters ; 
cut  up  very  fine,  drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  and  throw 
them  into  hot  vinegar,  on  the  fire;  let  them  remain  until 
they  are  plump,  but  not  cooked.  Then  put  them  at  once 
into  clear  cold  water.  This  gives  them  a  nice,  plump  look ;  and 
they  will  not  then  shrink  and  look  small.  Drain  the  water 
from  them  and  set  them  in  a  cool  place ;  mash  the  yelks  very 
fine,  rub  into  it  the  salt,  pepper,  and  mustard,  then  the  oil,  a 
fe>v  drops  at  a  time.  When  smooth  add  the  beaten  eggs 
and  then  the  vinegar,  a  spoonful  at  a  time.  Mix  oysters, 
celery,  and  pickle;  sprinkle  in  salt  to  taste;  then  pour  dress- 
ing over  all. 


SALADS.  69 

SALAD  CREAM. 

Take  the  yelks  of  three  fresh  eggs,  and  whisk  them  well  up 
with  ten  grains  of  cayenne  pepper;  then  take  one  ounce  of 
mustard,  salt  one  dram  and  a  half,  salad-oil  half  an  ounce; 
mix  well  with  half  a  pint  of  the  best  vinegar,  and  then  add 
the  two  lots  together;  shake  them  well  and  you  will  have  an 
excellent  mixture,  which  will  keep  for  twelve  months. 

COLD  SLAW. 

Two  eggs,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  or  olive-oil,  one  ta- 
ble-spoonful of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  vinegar,  one  table-spoon- 
ful of  mixed  mustard  and  pepper;  put  into  a  tin  bucket,  and 
cook  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water.  Be  careful  not  to  let  it  curdle. 
Cut  cabbage  very  fine;  salt  it,  and  pour  on  the  dressing 
when  cold. 

WARM  SLAW. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  cabbage,  and  cut  up  very  fine ; 
melt  butter  with  cream  or  milk;  mix  pepper,  salt,  mustard, 
and  vinegar ;  pour  over  hot 

HOT  SLAW. 

Cut  the  cabbage  very  fine,  and  lay  in  cold  water;  prepare 
a  dressing  of  one  tumbler  of  vinegar,  one  table-spoonful  of 
mustard,  one  tea-spoonful  of  black  pepper,  one  table-spoonful 
of  olive-oil,  or  a  large  table-spoonful  of  butter,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Put  the  mixture  on  the  fire,  and  when  hot 
stir  in  the  cabbage;  cook  a  few  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

CELERY  SLAW.— No.  i.     (Fine.) 

Take  half  a  head  of  cabbage  and  three  bunches  of  celery, 
chopped  fine.  Mix  well  one  cup  of  vinegar,  lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  yelks  of  three  eggs,  tea-spoonful  of  mus- 
tard, one  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  and  two  of  sugar;  heat  this 
mixture  on  the  stove  till  it  thickens,   stirring   constantly; 


70  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

when  cold  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet  cream,  and  pour 
over  the  cabbage  and  celery. 

CELERY  SLAW.— No.  2. 

Take  half  a  head  of  cabbage,  two  bunches  of  celery,  and 
three  hard-boiled  eggs  ;  chop  cabbage,  celery,  and  whites  of 
eggs  fine.  Dressing. — Mix  the  yelks  of  eggs  with  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  of  mustard,  one  of  pepper,  one  of  salt, 
and  vinegar  sufficient  to  moisten. 

DRESSING  FOR  SLAW. 
Beat  lightly  two  eggs;  then  take  half  a  pint  of  vinegar, 
one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  half  a  table-spoonful  of  flour; 
boil  all  together  until  as  thick  as  custard,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar  to  taste;  pour,  when  cold, 
over  the  cabbage. 

HAM  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  bread  into  thin  slices,  and  butter  nicely;  spread  on  a 
little  mustard,  very  thin;  lay  a  slice  of  boiled  ham  between 
two  of  bread;  or,  if  you  choose,  cold  tongue,  grated. 

SANDWICHES. 

Chop  old  ham  very  fine,  or  grate  it;  beat  an  egg  thor- 
oughly, mix  some  ground  mustard,  let  half  a  pint  of  vinegar 
come  to  a  boil,  stir  in  the  egg  and  mustard,  and  mix  with 
the  ham.  After  buttering  thin  slices  of  bread  spread  on  this 
mixture. 

HAM  TOAST. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean  ham  chopped  fine,  the 
yelks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  two 
table-spoonfuls,  of  cream,  and  a  little  red  pepper;  stir  this 
over  the  fire  until  it  thickens,  and  then  spread  on  hot  toast. 

DEVILED  TURKEY. 
Take  half  a  cup  of  tomatoes,  one  table-spoonful  of  catchup, 


SALADS.  71 

one  tea-spoonful  of  dry  mustard,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter, 
and  a  little  red  pepper;  pour  this  hot  over  the  turkey  after 
it  is  broiled. 


SAUCES  FOR  FISH  AND  MEATS. 


SAUCE  WITH  OYSTERS  FOR  FISH 

To  one  pint  of  strained  oyster-liquor  add  one  goblet  of 
claret,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  one 
table-spoonful  of  butter  thickened  with  a  table- spoonful  of 
flour;  when  this  is  scalding  hot  add  half  a  pound  of  butter 
stirring  all  till  it  melts;  then  add  twenty  oysters,  let  scald, 
not  boil,  and  serve. 

FISH-SAUCE. 

Cream  the  yeiKs  of  four  eggs  in  a  table-spoonful  of  vine- 
gar; salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add  half  a  pound  of  butter, 
and  place  on  the  fire  till  it  thickens;  do  not  let  it  get  too 
hot,  or  it  will  curdle.  » 

SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

Take  the  yelks  of  six  hard-boiled  eggs  and  cream  them 
with  sweet-oil,  mustard,  walnut  catchup,  Worcestershire 
sauce,  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar  to  taste.  Pickle  chopped 
fine  improves  it. 

TARTAR-SAUCE.     (For  Boiled  or  Baked  Fish.) 

Put  into  a  small  sauce-pan  the  yelks  of  two  eggs,  a  des. 
sert-spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  whip  up  this 
mixture  as  quick  as  possible ;  when  the  whole  forms  a  sort 
of  cream  add  two  dessertspoonfuls  of  oil  and  a  tea-spoonful 
of  mustard,  which  must  be  well  mixed  previously,  a  pinch  of 
parsley  minced  fine,  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.     The  oil 


72  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

should  be  put  in  drop  by  drop,  to  mix  perfectly.     Heat  thor- 
oughly, not  boil. 

SAUCE  PIQUANT.     (For  Fried  Fish.) 

Take  three  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet-oil,  one  of  vinegar,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  some  fine  salt,  some  onion 
minced  fine,  chopped  pai*sley,  bright  red  pepper-pods  cut  up 
into  small  pieces.  All  these  ingredients  should  be  beaten 
well  together  and  poured  over  the  fish  as  it  comes  hot  out 
of  the  frying-pan. 

MAYONNAISE. 

Place  in  the  bottom  of  a  salad-bowl  the  yelk  of  one  raw 
egg,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  the  same  of  dry  mustard,  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  white  pepper,  as  much  red  pepper  as  can  be  taken 
on  the  point  of  a  pen-knife,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon ; 
mix  these  ingredients  with  a  wooden  salad-spoon,  until  they 
assume  a  creamy-white  appearance;  then  add,  drop  by  drop, 
three  gills  of  salad-oil,  stirring  the  mayonnaise  constantly; 
if  it  thickens  too  rapidly,  thin  with  the  juice  from  the  second 
half  of  the  lemon.  Add  gradually  four  table-spoonfuls  of 
tarragon  vinegar.  Two  spoonfuls  of  cream  is  an  improve- 
ment.    Keep  cool  until  wanted  for  use. 

VENISON-SAUCE. 

One  pint  of  currant  jelly,  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter, four  table -spoonfuls  of  brown  sugar,  one  table-spoonful 
of  ground  mace  and  allspice,  and  one  pint  of  wine.  Boil  till 
it  thickens. 

MINT-SAUCE  FOR  LAMB. 

Three  table-spoonfuls  "of  chopped  mint,  three  table-spoon- 
fuls of  brown  sugar,  half  pint  of  vinegar,  and  a  salt-spoonful 
of  salt;  stir  well  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.     Do  not  heat. 

CRANBERRY-SAUCE. 
To  a  quart  of  ripe  cranberries  add  half  a  pint  of  water, 


SALADS.  73 

stirring  frequently;  when  soft,  mash  well;  when  done,  stir  in 
a  pound  of  sugar ;  let  it  boil  up  once,  as  much  cooking 
after  the  sugar  is  put  in  will  cause  the  sauce  to-  be  dark  ; 
pass  through  a  sieve.     Makes  a  beautiful  jelly  when  cold. 

MUSHROOM-SAUCE. 

Take  a  pint  of  mushrooms;  remove  the  outside  skins  if 
fresh,  if  canned  they  are  ready  for  use;  stew  them  slowly  in 
milk  or  cream,  seasoning  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  spoonful 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour;  stew  them  until  they  are  tender, 
stirring  them  with  a  silver  spoon.  This  sauce  served  with 
beefsteak  or  chicken  boiled  is  very  good. 

CAPER-SAUCE. 

Melt  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  with  a  table-spoonful 
of  flour;  add  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper,  then  add  a  tea-cup  of  capers,  and 
four  eggs  boiled  hard  and  minced  fine.  Cucumber  pickles 
well  minced,  make  a  nice  substitute.  This  is  a  nice  sauce 
fbr  boiled  meats. 

ONION-SAUCE.— No.  i. 

Put  six  sliced  onions  in  a  sauce-pan,  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  same  of  sugar, 
and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  ground  pepper;  cook  slowly  till  it 
thickens  to  a  pulp,  stirring  constantly;  then  add  one  pint  of 
milk,  thickened  with  one  table-spoonful  of  flour.  Boil  till 
about  as  thick  as  drawn  butter.  Strain  through  a  coarse 
sieve  and  serve. 

ONION-SAUCE.— No.  2. 

Slice  one  onion,  fry  slightly  in  two  table-spoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, in  which  one  tea-spoonful  of  flour  has  been  stirred  ;  pour 
into  this  one  tea-cupful  of  sweet  milk  and  a  little  chopped 
parsley;  cook  a  few  minutes;  pour  over  three  hard-boiled 
eggs,  minced  fine.  A  very  nice  sauce  for  fish  or  boiled 
meats. 


74  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

CELERY-SAUCE. 

Cut  two  heads  of  celery  into  small  pieces;  put  them  into  a 
pint  of  water,  boil  until  tender,  then  add  one  half  tumbler  of 
cream,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  small  lump  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour;  let  the  whole  stew  gently  five  minutes.  To  be  eaten 
with  boiled  fowls. 

TOMATO-SAUCE. 

Remove  the  skin  by  pouring  boiling  water  over  them,  chop 
them  up  and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  cook  thoroughly,  strain 
through  a  sieve,  add  a  heaping  table-spoonful  of  butter,  pep- 
per, and  salt  to  taste,  and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  allspice;  put 
it  in  the  stew-pan  and  let  cook  slowly  till  it  thickens.  Use 
sugar  instead  of  pepper,  if  preferred. 

HORSE-RADISH  SAUCE. 

Mix  together  one  dessert-spoonful  of  mustard,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  three  table-spoonfuls  of  cream; 
season  with  salt  and  grated  horse-radish  to  suit  the  taste. 

CURRY-POWDER. 

Pound  fine  and  mix  three  ounces  of  coriander  seeds,  three 
of  tui*meric,  one  of  vinegar,  one  of  black  pepper,  one  of  mus- 
tard, one  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  the  same  of  cay- 
enne pepper,  and  cumin-seed.  Keep  this  powder  in  a  bottle 
with  a  glass  stopper. 

TO  MELT  BUTTER. 

Take  four  ounces  of  good  butter ;  rub  into  it  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  one  table-spoonful  of  water,  a  little  salt;  set 
the  vessel  in  another  of  boiling  water;  shake  it  until  the  but- 
ter begins  to  boil.  Do  not  place  the  pan  containing  the  but- 
ter on  the  fire,  as  it  is  easily  reduced  to  oil,  and  will  be  much 
impaired.  This  ma}'  be  seasoned  with  any  kind  of  herbs;  a 
litttle  more  water  is  needed  when  herbs  are  used.  Take 
parsley,  boil  for  a  few  minutes,   drain  off  the  water,  mince 


SALADS.  75 

fine,   and  stir  in  the  butter  when  it  begins  to  draw.     This 
sauce  is  fine  for  all  boiled  meats  and  fowl. 

DRAWN  BUTTER. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of 
flour,  two  ounces  of  butter;  mix  flour  and  butter  till  smooth; 
stir  into  the  hot  water  and  salt  to  taste. 

EGG-SAUCE. 

Make  like  drawn  butter,  with  the  addition  of  three  eggs, 
boiled  hard  and  chopped  fine.     Serve  this  with  fish. 

BROWNING  SUGAR.— (For  Soups  and  Sauces.) 

Take  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  put  just  water  enough  to 
wet  it;  pour  in  a  vessel  and  simmer  slowly,  stirring  all  the 
time,  until  it  is  a  light-brown  color;  add  one  ounce  of  salt 
and  water  to  the  consistency  of  sirup,  boil  a  few  minutes, 
taking  off  the  scum.  Keep  in  a  bottle.  Before  putting  in 
the  soup  or  sauce  stir  in  the  quantity  you  intend  using  in  a 
cup  of  the  broth. 


76  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


VEGETABLES. 


ASPARAGUS. 

Tie  in  bunches  of  about  twenty-five  each,  and  evenly  as 
possible ;  throw  in  warm,  salted  water,  and  boil  quickly  for 
twenty  minutes.  When  done,  take  up  with  a  skimmer  and 
lay  on  buttered  toast.  Serve  with  drawn  butter  or  cream 
sauce. 

burr  Artichokes. 

The  burr  should  be  boiled  in  hot  water,  with  a  little  salt, 
until  tender,  which  you  can  ascertain  by  pulling  out  a  leaf; 
if  it  leaves  the  burr  easily,  it  is  done.  To  be  eaten  with 
melted  butter  or  oil,  pepper,  and  vinegar 

STRING  BEANS. 

String  the  beans  by  breaking  off  the  ends  and  pulling  the 
fibrous  thread  on  each  side.  If  old,  it  is  best  to  break  them 
in  two,  besides  stringing.  As  they  are  strung,  throw  them 
into  cold  water  until  ready  to  be  cooked.  Put  them  in  boil- 
ing water,  with  a  little  salt,  and  cook  till  tender,  which  will 
take  about  an  hour.  Drain  them,  and  season  with  butter, 
pepper,  and  cream;  return  to  the  sauce-pan  and  cook  a  min- 
ute. 

Another  way  to  cook  beans  is  to  boil  with  a  small  piece  of 
salt  pork.  The  meat  should  be  half  done  before  putting  in 
the  beans,  and  also  skim  while  cooking. 


VEGETABLES.  77 


LIMA  OR  BUTTER  BEANS. 

Shell  and  wash  them  in  cold  water;  put  in  enough  boil- 
ing water  tq  cover  them,  with  a  little  salt;  boil  for  half  an 
hour;  pour  off  the  water,  and  season  with  butter  and  pepper. 
If  they  are  a  little  old,  add  a  small  pinch  of  bi-carbonate  of 
soda. 

TO  BAKE  DRY  BEANS. 

Soak  them  over  night  in  cold  water;  put  them  to  boil  in 
enough  of  cold  water  to  cover  them  well ;  let  th.em  boil  two 
hours.  Drain  off  the  water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  put  in  a  dish  to  bake ;  place  in  the  center  of  the  beans 
a  tsmall  piece  of  salt  pork  that  has  been  boiled  in  another 
vessel,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS. 

Soak  in  water  a  short  time,  and  wash  it  clean;  boil  in  salt- 
water. When  done,  strain  and  fry  in  a  table-spoonful  of 
butter,  in  which  has  been  browned  a  table-spoonful  of  flour, 
and  a  small  onion  cut  fine;  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

BEETS. 

Wash  them  well ;  be  careful  not  to  cut  the  top  too  close  to 
the  beet,  or  break  off  the  ends,  as  this  will  allow  both  the 
color  and  sweetness  to  escape ;  boil  one  hour.  When  done, 
drop  in  cold  water  and  rub  off  the  skin,  and  slice  very  thin. 
Dress  with  melted  butter  or  salad-oil,  pepper,  and  salt;  serve 
hot.  They  are  more  commonly  dressed  in  vinegar,  salt,  and 
pepper,  when  cold.     Old  beets  will  take  two  hours  to  boil. 

CABBAGE. 

This  vegetable,  when  properly  cooked,  will  not  disagree  with 
the  most  delicate  stomach.  An  eminent  physician  taught  me 
how  to  have  it  prepared.  It  is  simply  to  change  the  water 
two  or  three  times  while  cooking;  but  be  sure  to  have  the 


78  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

water  well  drained  each  time,  and  a  kettle  of  boiling  water 
at  hand  to  replace  that  which  has  been  thrown  off.  Change 
the  first  water  about  half  an  hour  after  boiling,  and  so  on  as 
many  times  as  you  wish.     Put  the  meat  into  the  last  water. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

Quarter  a  large  cabbage,  and  lay  in  enough  cold  water  to 
cover  it  for  two  or  three  hours;  then  have  enough  boiling 
water  to  well  cover  the  cabbage,  and  plunge  it  in.  One 
hour's  cooking  is  sufficient.  Put  in  a  little  salt  before  taking 
up,  and  serve  with  drawn  butter. 

CABBAGE  ^ETOUFE'. 

Take  a  white-head  cabbage;  make  two  incisions  across  the 
head  deep  enough  to  cleanse  it;  wash  it  clean ;  then  shake 
the  water  from  it ;  strew  between  each  leaf  nice  sausage- 
meat,  and  tie  up  with  strips  of  white  cloth,  to  keep  it  in 
shape.  Have  ready  a  very  large  spoonful  of  lard  in  a  pot 
large  enough  to  contain  the  cabbage ;  brown  some  flour,  and 
when  boiling' put  in  the  cabbage;  cover  closely.  After 
twenty  minutes  withdraw  the  potto  a  more  gentle  heat;  sim- 
mer for  two  hours;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  serve  whole. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE. 
I 
Take  a  good-sized,   very  hard  head  of  cabbage,  lay  back 

half  a  dozen  of  the  outside  leaves,  and  cut  a  square  out  of 
the  center  of  the  cabbage;  put  back  this  square,  and  tie  the 
leaves  firmly  around  it;  then  plunge  the  cabbage  in  boil- 
ing, salted  water;  let  it  boil  till  quite  done,  and  remove 
from  the  water.  Make  a  stuffing  as  for  turkey;  take  out  the 
square  from  the  cabbage,  and  chop  with  this  dressing.  Fill 
the  cabbage  and  place  in  a  pot,  with  one  pint  of  cream  or 
rich  milk  and  two  table  spoonfuls  of  butter.  Let  all  simmer 
till  most  of  the  milk  is  absorbed. 


VEGETABLES.  79 

HOT  DRESSING  FOR  CABBAGE  COOKED  WITHOUT  MEAT. 

Beat  together  the  yelks  of  two  eggs,  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  brown  sugar,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  large  ta- 
ble-spoonful of  butter,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Stir  well 
in  a  sauce-pan  till  it  boils ;  then  add  a  cup  of  milk.or  cream. 
Pour  hot  over  the  cabbage,  and  serve. 

CORN-PATTIES. 

Take  six  ears  of  boiled  corn  ;  cut  off  from  the  cob  by  di- 
viding the  grains  and  scraping  after  cutting;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Mix  with  the  yelks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten, 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour;  whisk  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  stir  in  lastly.  Drop  one  table-spoonful  at  a  time  in  hot 
lard,  and  fry  a  light  brown  on  both  sides. 

FRIED  CORN. 

Cut  the  corn  from  the  cobs,  and  put  in  a  frying-pan  with 
one  half  tumbler  of  water  to  a  quart;  let  it  stew  a  short  time, 
as  it  will  be  more  tender;  then  stir  in  pepper  and  salt  and  a 
table-spoonful  of  lard,  and  fry  a  very  light  brown. 

GREEN-CORN  PUDDING. 

Take  twelve  ears  of  green  corn  and  grate  it;  add  a  quart 
of  sweet  milk,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  four  eggs 
well  beaten,  pepper  and,  salt  to  the  taste.  Stir  all  well  to- 
gether and  bake  one  hour  in  a  buttered  dish. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Boil  the  corn  and  beans  in  separate  pots  until  done ;  then 
cut  and  scrape  the  corn  from  the  cob,  and  to  every  measure 
of  beans  allow  two  of  corn;  mix  them;  season  with  milk, 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt.     Boil  up  once,  and  serve 

GREEN-CORN  PUDDING,  WITH  CHICKEN. 

Boil  six  large  ears  of  corn ;  slice  the  grains  off,  commenc- 
ing with  a  very  thin  coat  of  the  outer  grains.     Boil  a  spring 


80  GULF   CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

cbicken  until  quite  tender;  salt,  pepper,  and  flour  each  piece 
of  the  chicken.  Beat  four  eggs  with  a  small  cup  of  butter,  a 
spoonful  of  pepper  and  salt;  add  to  the  corn,  making  a  thick 
batter  with  the  top  of  the  chicken- water;  place  the  batter  in 
a  large,  buttered  baking-dish  ;  lay  the  floured  pieces  of  chick- 
en carefully  down  into  the  batter;  sift  a  little  flour  over  the 
top  of  the  batter,  but  not  on  the  sides  of  the  dish.  Bake  it 
uTitil  the  bottom,  sides,  and  top  are  a  light  brown. 

CARROTS. 

Carrots  should  be  boiled  in  salt-water  until  they  can  be 
pierced  by  a  straw.  The  water  should  then  be  poured  off,  and 
the  carrots  stewed  a  few  minutes  in  melted  butter  and  cream. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Wash  it  clean ;  peel  the  stem,  wrap  it  in  muslin,  and  boil 
in  salt-water  one  hour,;  make  butter  or  egg  sauce.  Egg 
Sauce. — Beat  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter  until  it  foams; 
stir  with  it  the  yelks  of  four  eggs;  add  half  a  table-spoonful 
of  flour,  and  stir  it  while  boiling  in  some  of  the  liquor  of  the 
cauliflower. 

CAULIFLOWER  OMELET. 

Take  the  white  part  of  a  boiled  cauliflower,  after  it  is  cold, 
and  chop  it  very  small;  mix  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
well-beaten  egg,  to  make  a  very  thick  batter;  then  fry  it  in 
fresh  butter,  and  serve  hot. 

EGG-PLANT  FRIED. 

Boil  in  water  until  perfectly  done,  first"  peeling  it ;  mash 
well,  and  stir  into  it  when  cool  one  egg,  one  table-spoonful 
of  butter,  one  table-spoonful  of  flour  to  one  plant;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  onion  cut  fine,  if  desired;  fry  in  cakes. 
The  batter  should  be  soft  enough  to  drop  with  a  spoon. 


VEGETABLES.  81 


ANOTHER  WAY. 

Peel  the  egg-plant ;  parboil  ten  minutes ;  cut  in  slices  cross- 
wise; season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  up  one  egg;  dip  the 
slices  in  the  Qgg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  a  light  brown 
in  boiling  lard.  Egg-plants  prepared  in  this  way,  and  fried 
in  batter,  are  equally  nice. 

BAKED  EGG-PLANT. 

Cut  the  egg-plant  lengthwise;  take  out  the  inside,  and 
mix  it  with  nearly  as  much  bread-crumbs,  one  egg,  pepper, 
and  salt;  fry  the  mixture  in  hot  butter;  return  to  the  shells, 
and  bake  half  an  hour. 

GRITS. 

Pick  over  and  wash  nicely ;  allow  twice  as  much  water  as 
grits;  season  with  salt,  and  boil  till  done.  Cold  grits  can  be 
nicely  utilized  by  slicing,  and  dipping  the  slices  in  a  beaten 
egg  in  which  there  is  mixed  a  little  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Another. — Soften  the  cold  grits  with  warm  water.  Mix 
with  eggs,  a  little  butter,' salt,  and  milk,  and  bake  in  a  but- 
tered dish. 

HOMINY. 

Wash  thoroughly  through  two  or  three  waters,  and  boil 
three  or  four  hours,  allowing  twice  the  quantity  of  water  to 
that  of  hominy.  Just  before  it  is  done,  season  with  salt' 
Place  a  small  lump  of  butter  in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  the 
hominy  over  it. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Cut  off  the  stems,  peel  off  the  skins,  and  put  in  a  stew-pan, 
with  a  little  salt  and  water;  cook  about  half  an  hour;  add 
butter,  pepper,  and  thicken  with  a  little  flour.  Boil  five  min 
utes,  and  serve  on  toast  or  over  steak.  It  is  safest  to  stir 
with  a  silver  spoon,  as  any  toad-stools,  which  are  poisonous, 
will  turn  the  spoon  dark. 
6 


82  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

BROILED  MUSHROOMS. 

Wash,  stem,  and  peel  off  the  skins  of  the  mushrooms;  put 
them  on  the  gridiron  over  hot  coals,  with  the  hollow  side  up; 
sprinkle  a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  butter  on  each  one;  cook  a 
few  minutes,  but  do  not  turn. 

STEWEO  OKRA. 

Wash  the  okra  in  cold  water,  and  cut  it  in  thin  slices  cross- 
wise. To  one  pint  of  cut  okra  cut  up  one  small  onion,  one 
table  spoonful  of  flour,  and  fry  in  a  frying-pan  in  which  some 
slices  of  pork  have  been  fried,  or  a  large  table-spoonful  of 
lard.  Scald  and  peel  six  tomatoes,  and  stir  in  the  mixture. 
Cook  until  all  are  done. 

TO  BOIL  OKRA. 

Okra  should  be  young  and  tender.  Cut  off  the  stems  and 
the  tip  of  the  small  end  ;  boil  till  tender,  but  not  long  enough 
to  cause  it  to  fall  to  pieces ;  pour  over  melted  butter,  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

FRIED  OKRA. 

Boil  the  okra  in  salt-water  until  tender;  mash  it  up,  and 
stir  in  one  egg,  pepper,  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  hold  to- 
gether.    Take  up  a  large  spoonful,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

ONIONS. 

Onions  boiled  in  milk,  instead  of  water,  are  rendered  more 
delicate  and  improved  in  flavor.  Lot  the  milk  boil ;  add  a 
little  salt.  Peel  the  onions,  and  put  them  in  the  boiling  milk, 
and  let  them  boil  half  an  hour,  or  until  well  done.  Drain 
them  in  a  colander ;  put  them  in  a  warm  dish,  and  pour  a 
little  melted  butter  over  them;  sprinkle  with  black  pepper. 

STEWED  ONIONS. 

Slice  your  onions;  have  ready  in  your  frying-pan  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lard.     When  it  is  hot,  put  in  the  onions  ;  let  them 


VEGETABLES.  83 

fry  a  few  minutes;  pour  in  about  half  a  cup  of  hot  water  or 
milk;  sift  over  the  top  about  a  tablespoonful  of  flour;  cover 
closely,  and  let  it  stew  gently  until  the  onions  are  done.  Sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt. 

ONION  OMELET. 

Six  large  onions  boiled  quite  done;  mash,  and  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  half  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  and  one  egg.     Bake  five  minutes. 

FRIED  ONIONS. 

Peel  and  slice  the  onions ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste  ;  fry  in  boiling  lard  to  a  light  brown. 

ONION  PUDDING. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  chopped  onions,  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  one  slice  oft  light  bread,  two  eggs,  one  large  spoonful 
of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Bake  in  a  pudding-dish. 
Cabbage  pudding  in  the  same  proportions,  substituting  cab- 
bage for  onions. 

PARSNIPS. 

Wash  and  scrape  them;  cut  in  halves  or  quarters,  accord- 
ing to  the  size;  boil  them  until  tender, — about  half  an 
hour.     Season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS. 

Boil  the  parsnips  until  tender;  mash  and  pass  them  through 
a  colander;  stir  in  one  well-beaten  egg  and  enough  flour  to 
make  it  hold  together.     Season,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

FRIED  PARSNIPS. 

Boil  until  tender;  slice  them  lengthwise;  dip  in  batter,  and 
fry  brown  in  hot  lard. 

PLANTAINS. 
Cut  your  plantains  lengthwise,  and  put  them  in  a  pan; 


84  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

cover  with  sugar,  and  let  them  stand  for  several  hours,   so 
that  they  will  absorb  the  sugar.     Fry  in  a  spoonful  of  butter. 

POTATOES. 

The  best  way  to  cook  Irish  potatoes  is  to  put  them  in  just 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them,  leaving  the  skins  on. 
Let  them  boil  steadily  till  done.  When  nearly  done,  put  in 
a  little  salt;  remove  the  skins  while  hot,  and  just  as  you  are 
going  to  send  to  the  table,  pour  over  melted  butter.  A  very 
poor  potato  cooked  in  this  way,  and  pressed,  while  hot,  in  a 
coarse  cloth,  will  be  mealy ;  and  if  mashed  with  a  little  butter, 
cream,  or  milk,  you  can  not  tell  it  from  the  best.  Potatoes 
should  not  be  served  in  a  covered  dish,  as  the  condensing  of 
the  steam  makes  them  clammy. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

Tare  the  potatoes  very  thin,  as  the  best  of  the  potato  is 
near  the  skin ;  put  in  sufficient  boiling  water,  salted,  to  cover 
them.  When  done,  pour  off  the  water,  allowing  them  a  lit- 
tle hard,  and  set  back  on  the  stove  to  dry,  with  the  cover  of 
the  vessel  removed,  to  aid  evaporation,  or  a  towel  over  the 
top,  to  absorb  vapor.     Boil  half  an  hour. 

NEW  POTATOES. 

Eub  off  the  skins  with  a  coarse  towel  in  cold  water ;  put 
them  in  boiling  water;  cook  twenty  minutes;  drain  off  the 
water,  sprinkle  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  over 
melted  butter  or  cream. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

Skin,  wash,  and  dry  some  new  potatoes  ;  melt  some  butter 
in  a  stew-pan ;  when  it  is  quite  hot,  put  the  potatoes  in  it ; 
simmer  them  slowly,  turning  them  occasionally.  When  done, 
take  them  up  and  place  them  in  another  stew-pan,  with  suf- 
ficient fresh  butter  to  form  a  sauce;  shake  them  over  the  fire 


VEGETABLES.  85 


merely  till  the  butter  is  melted.     Put  them  in  a  dish   and 
pour  the  butter  over  them,  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt. 

POTATOES  A  LA  CRE'ME. 
Put  into  a  sauce-pan  about  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  small 
table-spoonful  of  flour,  some  parsley  chopped  fine,  salt,  and 
pepper;  stir  these  together;  add  a  wine-glass  of  cream,  and 
set  it  on  the  fire,  stirring  continually  until  it  boils.  Cut  some 
boiled  potatoes  into  slices,  and  put  them  into  the  sauce-pan 
with  the  mixture;  boil  up  once,  and  serve  hot. 

POTATO  BALLS.— No.  i. 

Two  cups  of  mashed  potatoes,  one  cup  of  grated  ham,  two 
well-beaten  eggs,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk,  one 
table-spoonful  of  butter ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Make  in- 
to balls,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  This  is  a  good 
way  to  utilize  cold  potatoes;  and  it  is  a  nice  breakfast-dish. 

POTATO  BALLS.— No.  2. 

Boil  the  potatoes;  peel,  and  mash  smooth,  with  one  egg 
and  a  little  flour,  to  keep  it  in  form;  add  a  little  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 

BAKED  POTATO. 

Boil  the  potatoes,  and  mash,  with  one  egg,  one  table-spoon- 
ful of  butter,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk.  Bake 
quickly. 

Potatoes  roasted  in  a  very  hot  oven  are  both  healthy  and 
palatable. 

POTATOES  MASHED  WITH  ONIONS. 

Prepare  some  boiled  onions  by  putting  them  through  a  sieve, 
and  mix  them  with  potatoes.  Regulate  according  to  taste, 
seasoning  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

MASHED  POTATOES  AND  TURNIPS. 
Boil  Irish  potatoes  as  in  No.   2;  mash,  and  season.     Boil 


GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


turnips  ;  mash,  and  season.  Allow  two  thirds  potatoes  and 
one  third  turnips ;  mix  well,  and  add  cream  or  milk  to  taste. 
This  is  an  excellent  dish,  if  nicely  prepared. 

TO  FRY  SARATOGA  POTATOES. 

Pare  and  cut  Irish  potatoes  very  thin;  put  them  in  cold 
water  to  soak  over  night.  When  ready,  take  them  out  of 
the  water  and  wipe  them  dry,  as  they  will  not  brown  if  they 
are  not  well  dried.  Have  your  lard  about  as  you  would  for 
frying  doughnuts,  dropping  in  about  two  handfuls  at  a  time, 
Stirling  all  the  time,  so  that  they  will  brown  evenly.  The 
quicker  they  are  cooked, — so  that  they  do  not  burn, — the 
better  they  are.  Add  a  little  salt  when  you  take  them  out 
of  the  fat 

GREEN  PEAS. 

Shell  and  wash  the  peas;  cook  in  hot  water  enough  to  cov- 
er them  for  twenty  minutes.  When  nearly  done,  add  salt ; 
take  them  up  clear  of  water.  Season  with  butter,  and,  if 
desired,  add  a  little  cream. 

GREEN  PEAS  WITH  MINT. 

Put  the  peas  in  cold  w.ater  to  boil,  with  a  little  salt.  Add 
one  sprig  of  mint,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar.  When 
done,  take  out  the  mint,  drain  off  the  water,  and  season  with 
butter  and  pepper. 

This  is  an  English  method  of  cooking  peas. 

FRIED  FIGS. 

Have  large,  ripe  figs ;  peel,  and  cut  in  half  the  long  way 
of  the  fruit ;  fry  in  a  pan  of  hot  butter,  leaving  the  flat  side 
of  the  fig  up.  Fry  a  light  brown,  and  after  dishing  sprinkle 
with  brown  sugar.  These  are  almost,  if  not  quite,  equal  to 
fried  plantains. 


VEGETABLES.  87 


TO  BAKE  LARGE,  YELLOW  CUCUMBERS. 

Cut  off  each  end,  carefully  scrape  out  the  inside,  and  peel 
them.  Make  a  force-meat  of  beef  or  veal,  onions,  a  part  of  a 
clove  of  garlic,  pepper,  and  salt;  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  hot 
lard;  add  a  little  water,  and  let  it  cook  over  a  slow  fire.  By 
cooking  slowly,  it  will  make  its  own  gravy. 

TO  BOIL  RICE 

Wash  one  pint  of  rice,  and  put  in  one  and  one  half  pints 
of  boiling  water,  with  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  When  this 
boils  up  two  or  three  times,  set  back  where  it  will  boil  gently. 
Do  not  stir  after  setting  back. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 

Half  a  cup  of  rice,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  table-spoonful  of  melted  butter, 
grated  peel  of  a  lemon,  and  a  little  salt.  Soak  the  rice  one 
or  two  hours  in  enough  warm  water  to  cover  it;  drain  it  al- 
most dry;  put  in  the  milk;  steam  until  tender;  add  the 
sugar,  butter,  and  salt;  beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add 
to  the  mixture;  cook  five  minutes;  add  the  lemon-peel,  and  turn 
all  on  a  buttered  dish.  When  cold,  flour  your  hands  and  roll 
in  oval-shaped  balls;  dip  them  in  well-beaten  eggs  and  crack- 
er crumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 

BOILED  SWEET-POTATOES. 

Wash  and  boil  as  Irish  potatoes,  but  without  peeling.  When 
done  sufficiently  to  pierce  with  a  straw,  take  up  and  peel ;  if 
large,  cut  in  two  the  long  way;  put  in  a  covered  dish,  and 
pour  over  them  melted  butter.  Very  new  sweet-potatoes 
should  always  be  boiled,  as  they  are  not  sufficiently  juicy  or 
sweet  to  bake. 

BAKED  SWEET-POTATOES. 

Wash,  and  bake  in  the  oven  with  the  skins  on.     When 


88  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

done,  serve  without  peeling.  When  roasting  beef  or  pork, 
peeled  sweet-potatoes  laid  in  the  same  pan  around  the  meat, 
and  allowed  to  cook  in  the  gravy,  are  very  nice.  When 
cooked  in  this  way,  the  potatoes,  if  large,  should  be  cut 
through  the  length,  so  as  to  get  thoroughly  done, 

SLICED  AND  BAKED  POTATOES. 

}>oil  sweet-potatoes  nearly  done,  peel,  and  cut  in  slices; 
put  a  layer  of  potatoes,  bits  of  butter  dotted  over  them,  and 
sprinkle  them  well  with  sugar;  add  another  layer  of  pota- 
toes, butter,  and  sugar,  until  the  dish  is  full  enough.  Add 
very  little  water,  and  bake. 

TO  FRY  SWEET-POTATOES. 

Parboil  the  potatoes,  peel,  cut  in  slices,  and  fry  to  a  nice 
brown  in  boiling  lard.  They  can  be  fried  without  boiling, 
though  it  will  require  a  longer  time,  and  more  lard  or  butter. 

TO  STEW  SALSIFY,  OR  VEGETABLE  OYSTERS. 

Wash  the  roots  nicely,  parboil,  and  scrape  off  the  outer 
skin;  cut  in  thick  slices,  and  put  into  a  stew-pan,  with  water 
enough  to  cover  it  well;  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper;  cook 
until  quite  tender.  Then  pour  off  the  water;  put  in  a  large 
table-spoonful  of  butter;  thicken  with  a  little  flour.  A  table- 
spoonful  of  cream  improves  it  very  much.  A  table-spoonful 
of  vinegar  added  gives  a  pleasant  flavor.  Serve  hot.  Car- 
rots and  parsnips  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way,  leaving 
out  the  vinegar. 

SALSIFY  PATTIES. 

Wash  and  scrape  the  roots;  boil  until  quite  tender;  mash 
well;  make  a  batter  of  one  egg,  a  tea-cupful  of  flour,  half  a 
table-spoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little 
milk.  Stir  this  into  the  salsify,  and  drop  a  large  spoonful  in- 
to boiling  lard.     Fry  brown. 


VEGETABLES.  go. 


SPINACH. 

Wash  thoroughly  through  two  or  three  waters  ;  boil  in 
salted  water  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes;  then  drain  in  a 
sieve.  Put  in  a  sauce-pan,  with  butter  and  pepper  to  taste; 
warm  through,  and  serve  with  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced. 

BOILED  SQUASH. 

Peel,  cut,  and  boil  the  squash  in  salted  water  till  tender. 
Drain  and  mash  smoothly,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  butter. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

Peel,  and  cut  the  squash  in  small  squares  of  about  an  inch. 
Put  a  table-spoonful  of  butter  in  a  stew-pan ;  when  heated, 
throw  in  the  squash  and  cover  tight;  stir  occasionally,  and 
when  nearly  done  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

SQUASH-FRITTERS. 

Boil  the  squash ;  mash  smooth,  with  butter  and  pepper, 
adding  a  little  flour  and  a  well-beaten  egg.  Make  in  little 
cakes,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

FRIED  SQUASH. 

Peel  and  slice  thin  and  evenly.  Dip  each  slice  in  egg 
which  has  been  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt;  then  dip  in 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

The  slices  of  squash  may  be  dipped  in  batter,  and  fried  in 
hot  lard.  When  prepared  in  either  of  the  above  way3,  it  is 
almost  impossible  to  distinguish  it  from  egg-plant. 

MASHED  TURNIPS. 

Peel,  and  boil  in  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt,  until  ten- 
der; drain  them  carefully  from  the  water,  mash  smooth,  and 
season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste. 


90  GULF  GITY  COOK-BOOK. 

WHOLE  TURNIPS. 

Peel,  and  boil  in  salted  water  till  tender;  drain  off  the 
water,  and  add  cream,  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste. 

TOMATOES. 

Pour  scalding  water  over  them,  and  let  them  remain  in  it 
a  few  minutes,  or  until  the  skins  will  come  off  easily.  When 
peeled,  put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  with  a  little  salt  and  butter, 
and  stew  them  half  an  hour;  add  a  little  bread-crumbs  or 
grated  cracker.  If  sugar  is  not  used,  add  a  little  black  pep- 
per. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

Peel  them;  cover  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish  with  them  ;  put 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter  on  them;  then  add  a  layer  of  bread- 
crumbs or  rolled  cracker;  then  another  layer  of  tomatoes, 
and  a  layer  of  crumbs,  until  the  dish  is  filled;  cover  the  top 
with  crumbs.  If  sugar  is  desired,  leave  out  pepper.  Bake 
half  an  hour.  If  canned  tomatoes  are  used,  drain  off  the 
fluid  before  using. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES. 
Select  large  and  firm  tomatoes;  cut  a  very  thin  slice  off  the 
end  opposite  the  stem;  carefully  take  out  the  seeds  and  juice, 
so  as  not  to  break  the  tomato.  Mix  with  the  seeds  and  juice 
stale  bread-crumbs  or  rolled  cracker,  salt,  pepper,  or  sugar 
if  preferred,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter.  Then  fill  each 
tomato  with  the  stuffing,  place  them  in  a  deep  baking-dish, 
aud  cover  them  with  a  thin  layer  of  the  above  mixture,  and 
sprinkle  dry  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  from  one  half  to  three 
quarters  of  an  hour,  according  to  the  size  of  tomato. 

BROILED  TOMATOES. 

Cut  them   in  thick  slices;  place  them  on  a  well-buttered 

broiling-iron,  over  a  clear  fire,  having  previously  sprinkled 

with  salt  and  pepper.     Have  ready  a  warm  dish,  place  them 

in  it,  and  pour  melted  butter  on  them.     Serve  them  quite  hot. 


VEGETABLES.  Ql 


BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Wash  and  cut  the  tomatoes  in  halves;  take  out  the  seeds. 
To  six  large  tomatoes  take  half  a  pint  of  bread-crumbs,  one 
onion  chopped  fine,  one  ounce  of  butter ;  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Fill  the  cells  with  the  dressing;  tie  the  halves  togeth- 
er; bake  in  a  pan  with  an  ounce  of  butter  and  one  gill  of 
water;  when  soft,  cut  the  thread  and  serve. 

FRIED  TOMATOES. 

Wash  and  cut  in  halves ;  take  out  the  seeds ;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  slowly  until  soft. 

SPANISH  WAY  TO  COOK  TOMATOES. 
Peel  a  dozen  ripe  tomatoes,  and  fry  them  in   butter,  with 
two  or  three  sliced  green  peppers;  sprinkle  on  a  little  salt; 
add  an  onion,  and  cook  well  together. 

EGGS  AND  TOMATOES. 
Peel  the  skins  from  twelve  large  tomatoes.     Put  four  spoon- 
fuls of  butter  in  a  frying-pan;  when  hot,  add  one  large  onion 
chopped  fine;  let  it  fry  for  a  few'minutes ,  add  the  tomatoes, 
and  when  nearly  done,  six  eggs  well  beaten. 

MACARONI  AND  TOMATOES. 
Boil  one  half  pound  of  macaroni  in  milk  or  water,  and  in 
a  separate  vessel  stew  one  quart  of  tomatoes.  Chop  the  to- 
matoes, and  beat  them  up  with  two  eggs,  a  table-spoonful  of 
butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  all  with  the  mac- 
aroni, and  bake. 

BAKED  MACARONI. 
Boil  one  half  pound  of  macaroni  till  tender;  strain  off  the 
water,  and  put  in  a  deep  dish, — buttered  to  prevent  its  stick 
ing, — with  layers  of  grated  or  finely-cut  cheese,  butter,  pep- 
per, and  salt,  alternating  with  layers  of  the  macaroni.  Fin- 
ish with  the  cheese  layer  on  top.  Bake  till  a  nice  brown — 
about  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour. 


92  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK* 

MACARONI  WITH  EGGS. 
Boil  till  tender  one  half  pound  of  macaroni ;  drain  off  the 
water ;  beat  well  two  eggs,  and  mix  in  the  macaroni.  But- 
ter a  dish,  and  put  in  alternate  layers  of  macaroni  and  eggs, 
and  grated  cheese,  pepper,  and  salt.  Pour  over  all  about  half 
a  tea-cup  of  milk.     Bake  till  a  good  brown.      • 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  93 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 


MILK  YEAST  FOR  BREAD. 

Boil  one  pint  of  milk  and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  When 
the  milk  is  cool,  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter  as  thin 
as  cream;  keep  it  in  a  warm  place;  it  will  require  about  six 
hours  to  rise.  To  make  up  in  bread,  add  flour  until  it  is  a 
soft  dough;  then  mix  one  table-spoonful  of  lard,  and  let  rise 
again  for  half  an  hour.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

TO  MAKE  HOP  YEAST. 

Pour  a  pint  of  cold  water  on  a  table-spoonful  of  hops;  let 
it  boil  a  short  while ;  strain  the  tea  from  the  hops ;  make  a 
batter  of  flour  and  water,  and  mix  with  the  tea;  let  it  boil 
again.  When  cool,  stir  in  meal  as  long  as  you  can  do  so. 
with  a  spoon ;  add  two  yeast  cakes  or  a  cup  of  yeast ;  let  it  rise 
Then  work  in  flour  uptil  it  is  stiff  enough  to  roll ;  cut  out  in 
cakes,  lay  on  a  dish,  and  dry  in  the  shade. 

TO  MAKE  STOCK  YEAST. 

Put  one  ounce  of  hops  into  a  quart  of  boiling  water;  boil 
two  minutes;  strain  enough  of  the  tea  on  a  half  pound  of 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  paste.  When  well  mixed,  put  in  the 
balance  of  the  hop  tea;  let  this  cool,  and  add  half  a  pint  of 
stock  yeast.  This  will  keep  three  days  in  warm  weather,  and 
a  week  in  winter. 

TO  MAKE  THE  FERMENT  FOR  BREAD. 

Wash  three  Irish  potatoes,  and  boil  (with  skins  on)  in  a 


94  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

quart  of  water  until  soft;  use  half  a  pound  of  flour;  mash 
the  potatoes,  and  rub  them  well  into  the  flour.  Make  a  paste 
the  same  as  for  stock  yeast;  then,  with  the  potato  tea  and 
cold  water,  make  this  cool  enough  to  bear  the  hand  in  it. 
Now  add  one  half  pint  of  stock  yeast,  and  let  it  stand  six  or 
eight  hours  to  rise.  When  this  has  risen  and  fallen,  make 
the  sponge  for  bread.  Strain  one  pint  of  this  ferment  through 
a  colander;  add  to  this  one  pint  of  water,  and  make  a  soft 
batter  of  flour.  Let  this  sponge  rise  four  hours;  add  salt  to 
make  your  bread;  mold,  and  let  it  rise,  and  bake. 

ROLLS  AND  LIGHT  BREAD. 

Take  three  pints  of  unsifted  flour,  and  at  noon  have  boiled 
a  large  Irish  potato;  while  the  potato  is  boiling,  dissolve  the 
half  of  a  gem  yeast-cake  in  a  coffee-cup  of  lukewarm  water. 
Take  one  of  the  three  pints  of  flour,  and  sift  it  into  a  bowl; 
mash  the  potato  quickly  and  very  smoothly,  and  while  hot  ; 
put  it  into  the  pint  of  flour,  and  mix  potato  and  flour  well 
together  with  the  hand;  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  sugar  and  a 
small  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Now  pour  onto  this  the  cup  of 
dissolved  yeast;  beat  this  batter  well  with  a  spoony  cover 
this  bowl  of  hatter,  and  place  it  where  it  will  keep  moderately 
warm.  About  eight  o'clock  at  night,  sift  the  other  two  pints 
of  flour  on  the  biscuit-board,  leaving  out  a  very  little  to 
knead  the  dough  in  the  morning.  Then  take  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  lard  (not  very  heaping) ;  mix  it  into  the  flour,  adding 
another  tea-spoonful  of  sugar  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 
.Now  pour  the  batter  into  this*  flour,  and  knead  the  doiigh  well ; 
put  this  dough  into  a  jar  or  bowl  that  has  a  cover.  Early 
next  morning  knead  this  dough  over;  make  into  rolls,  and 
set  to  rise  for  breakfast.  If  this  recipe  is  exactly  followed, 
it  can  not  fail. 

POTATO  YEAST. 

Grate  four  Irish  j>otatoes  ;  scald  well  in  a  quart  of  boiling 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  95 

water  half  a  tea-cup  of  sugar,  and  the  same  quantity  of  salt ; 
put  the  mixture  in  a  glass  or  stone  jar,  with  a  little  yeast  to 
make  it  rise;  cork  well,  and  keep  it  in  a  warm  place  the  first 
day,  or  until  it  ferments.  For  two  quarts  of  flour,  use  half 
a  tea-cup  of  this  yeast.     It  will  keep  for  two  weeks. 

LIGHT  ROLLS. 

One  quart  of  flour,  a  large  spoonful  of  yeast,  the  same 
quantity  of  lard ;  mix  with  warm  water  to  a  soft  dough  ;  cover 
well,  and  let  it  rise  all  night  in  a  warm  place.  Make  out  in 
rolls  in  the  morning.  They  will  rise  in  twenty  minutes. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

PARKER-HOUSE  ROLLS. 

Two  quarts  of  sifted  flour,  one  pint  of  cold  boiled  milk, 
one  table-spoonful  of  white  sugar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
half  a  pint  of  baker's  yeast,  and  one  large  table-spoonful  of 
lard.  Make  up  sponge  about  three  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  ; 
if  quite  light,  about  ten  o'clock  it  will  be  ready  to  make  into 
a  dough.  Knead  well  and  let  stand  all  night.  It  will  be 
ready  in  the  morning  to  mold  into  rolls.  They  rise  and 
bake  in  a  very  little  time. 

POTATO  YEAST. 

Peel  and  boil  one  dozen  good-sized  Irish  potatoes  in  one 
gallon  of  water  till  soft;  mash  them  through  a  seive.  Boil 
one  handful  of  hops  in  the  same  water  the  potatoes  were 
boiled  in,  and  strain  them  into  the  mashed  potatoes.  Beat 
it  well  together;  then  add  half  a  tea-cup  of  salt,  half  a  tea- 
cup of  sugar,  and  stir  it  well.  After  it  becomes  perfectly 
cold,  add  one  yeast-cake,  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  hop-water. 
In  two  days  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  Always  stir  it  well  be- 
fore using. 

BREAD. 

Make  the  bread  with  the  above  yeast  as  follows :     Use  three 


96  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

pints  of  flour;  into  one  quart  rub  a  table  spoonful  of  lard, 
with  a  little  salt.  To  one  tea-cup  of  yeast  add  one  egg,  if 
you  have  it,  and  one  table-spoonful  of  sugar ;  stir  well  together, 
and  pour  into  the  quart  of  flour.  Work  it  up  with  luke- 
warm water,  adding  by  degrees  the  other  pint  of  flour. 
Knead  it  till  the  dough  is  perfectly  smooth,  but  not  too  stiff. 
In  the  morning,  make  out  rolls.  If  the  dough  should  be  too 
soft,  add  a  little  more  flour. 

SWISS  ROLLS. 

Make  a  batter  of  one  pint  of  flour,  one  cake  of  yeast  dis- 
solved in  lukewarm  water,  a  large  Irish  potato,  if  convenient; 
when  risen,  two  quarts  of  flour,  one  table-spoonful  of  lard 
and  one  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  and  half  a  table-spoonful  of  salt. 
Pour  in  the  yeast,  rub  the  dough  smooth,  and  set  it  to  rise 
again.  When  well  risen,  make  it  into  splits  as  follows:  Koll 
out  the  dough  half  an  inch  thick;  baste  top  with  butter; 
cut  out  the  size  of  a  biscuit;  lay  one  on  the  top  of  the  other, 
and  set  it  to  rise.  Just  before  baking,  beat  an  egg  and  baste 
the  top  of  each. 

POCKET-BOOKS. 

Beat  the  yelks  of  four  eggs  with  two  dessert-spoonfuls  of 
sugar;  then  add  one  tea-cup'  of  sweet  milk,  with  one  large 
yeast-cake  dissolved  in  it ;  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Lastly,  add  the  whites,  after  beating  them  to  a  stiff  froth ; 
let  rise.  When  very  light,  add  one  table-spoonful  of  butter; 
also  one  of  lard.  Sift  the  flour,  and  make  a  soft  dough ;  let 
it  rise  again,  then  make  your  pocket-books  in  the  following 
manner:  Work  out  the  dough  with  a  little  more  flour;  roll 
in  pieces  about  five  inches  long  and  three  wide ;  spread  very 
little  butter  on  one  end;  sprinkle  with  flour;  fold  like  a 
pocket-book,  put  them  to  rise,  and  when  risen  bake. 

LIGHT  BREAD. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  pint  of  boiled  fresh  milk,  one  ta- 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  9,7 

ble-spoonful  of  lard,  one  table-spoonful  of  sugar,  tea-spoonful 
of  salt,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little 
water;  put  the  sugar  and  salt  in  the  water.  As  soon  as  the 
milk  boils,  put  it  in  a  bowl  to  cool,  and  put  in  the  lard. 
When  quite  cool,  mix  all  and  set  it  away  to  rise  over  night. 
Next  morning  work  in  a  pint  or  more  of  flour,  into  which 
put  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda ;  make  into  rolls  or  loaves,  and 
set  to  rise  again  ;  then  bake. 

EXCELLENT  GRAHAM  BREAD. 

One  quart  of  corn-meal,  one  pint  of  Graham  flour,  one  cup 
of  sour  milk,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  bake  three  hours. 

GRAHAM  ROLLS. 

Boil  two  pounds  of  Irish  potatoes,  and  mash  through  a 
colander;  add  to  this  one  pint  of  water,  one  half  cupful  of 
yeast,  and  enough  Graham  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Set 
to  rise  all  night,  and  in  the  morning  mold  into  small  cakes; 
let  rise  again,  and  then  bake.     Nice  Graham  rolls. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

One  cup  of  wheat  flour,  one  cup  of  Graham  flour,  two  eggs, 
two  cups  of  fresh  milk,  half  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  G.rease 
and  heat  the  pans  very  hot.     Bake  about  half  an  hour. 

GRAHAM  BREAD.— No.  i. 

To  one  quart  of  lukewarm  water  add  one  tea  spoonful  of 
salt,  two  of  brown  sugar,  and  yeast  as  for  flour  bread;  thick- 
en to  a  batter  with  sifted  Graham  flour,  and  let  it  rise  until 
morning.  Then  add  one  half  pint  of  new  milk,  one  fourth 
tea-cup  of  molasses,  one  third  teas]50onful  of  soda,  a  small 
piece  of  lard,  and  sufficient  Graham  flour  to  mold  soft.  Put 
into  deep  tins,  and  let  rise.  As  soon  as  little  cracks  come  on 
the  top,  put  into  a  hot  oven  and  bake  one  third  longer  than 
flour  bread.  This  bread  is  better  not  to  mold  very  much. 
7 


98  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

GRAHAM  BREAD.— No.  2. 

To  three  pints  of  sifted  Graham  meal  add  one  pint  of  sour 
milk  or  buttermilk,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  molasses,  soda  to 
sweeten  the  milk,  a  small  piece  of  shortening,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.     Mold,  and  bake  in  a  deep  tin. 

MILK-YEAST  BREAD.— (Excellent.) 

To  one  pint  of  boiling  new  milk  add  one  pint  of  lukewarm 
water,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  two  of  sugar,  and  one  tea-cup 
of  fine  cornmeal.  Add  the  cornmeal  first,  then  flour  enough 
to  make  quite  a  stiff  batter;  place  in  a  jar  or  pitcher,  and 
put  it  where  it  will  be  kept  more  than  milk-warm;  stir  oc- 
casionally until  it  begins  to  rise.  It  will  then  be  ready  to 
mold  in  less  than  half  an  hour.  Mold  soft,  place  in  deep  tins, 
and  at  once  begin  to  heat  the  oven,  as  it  rises  very  quickly. 
The  sponge  should  be  ready  to  mold  in  five  hours. 

RYE  BREAD. 

One  pint  of  rye  flour,  one  of  cornmeal,  one  table-spoonful 
of  lard,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  "one  tea-cup  of  good  yeast; 
mix  with  water  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  knead  well; 
set  to  rise.  When  well  risen,  knead  again  and  form  into 
loaves. 

RUSK.— No.  1. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  cup  of  yeast,  one  of  milk,  one  of 
brown  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  nutmeg,  two  table- spoonfuls  of 
butter;  rub  the  sugar,  butter,  and  nutmeg  in  the  flour,  then 
add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  next  the  yeast  and  milk.  Make 
the  dough  at  night,  and  if  more  flour  is  necessary,  add  it  next 
morning.  Make  into  rolls ;  let  them  rise  a  second  time,  and 
bake. 

RUSK.— No.  2. 

Beat  an  egg  and  a  spoonful  of  sugar  well ;  add  a  half  pint 
of  well-risen  yeast;  then  add  another  well-beaten  egg,  a  largo 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  99 

cuj)  of  sugar,  and  one  of  butter;  sift  in  sufficient  flour  to 
make  a  soft  dough,  and  let  rise  till  very  light.  Mold  the  rusk 
as  you  would  rolls;  fill  the  pan  with  them  barely  touching, 
and  when  well  risen  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

SALLY   LUNN. 

One  quart  of  flour  well  beaten  with  three  eggs,  one  cup  of 
milk,  half  cup  of  butter,  one  tea  spoonful  of  salt,  one  of  soda, 
and  two  of  cream  of  tartar  ;  dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  warm 
water  ;  rub  the  cream  of  tartar  thoroughly  into  the  dry  flour; 
put  in  the  salt,  slice  the  butter  into  the  milk,  and  dissolve 
over  a  gentle  fire,  adding  to  it  the  flour.  Mix  all  well,  to  the 
consistency  of  pound-cake,  then  bake  in  a  pan  as  you  would 
cake. 

HEALINGSPRINGS  SALLY  LUNN. 

To  three  well-beaten  eggs  add  one  table-spoonful  of  butter, 
one  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  half  tea-cup  of 
yeast;  mix  in  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour;  let  it  rise; 
then  beat  up  again  ;  and  if  too  soft,  beat  in  a  little  more 
flour.  It  should  be  the  consistency  of  muffin  batter.  Make 
it  up  at  night  tor  morning. 

CREAM-OF-TARTAR  BISCUIT. 

Stir  into  one  quart  of  flour  two  tea-spoonfuls  cream  of  tar- 
tar, a  little  salt,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter  or  lard,  with 
enough  milk  or  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  A  table-spoon- 
ful of  cream  will  improve  them.  They  do  not  need  much 
working. 

BISCUITS. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter  or  lard, 
soda  the  size  of  a  pea,  mixed  with  milk  or  water,  well  worked, 
will  make  fifteen  good  biscuits. 

One  heaping  pint  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  a  piece 


100  GULF  GITY  COOK-BOOK. 


of  lard  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one  half  tea-cup  of  new  milk, 
and  the  same  quantity  of  cold  water.  This  makes  a  stiff, 
dry  dough.  It  must  be  beaten  or  worked  until  it  is  perfectly 
elastic,  then  made  into  biscuits  or  rolled  thin  for  crackers. 

BISCUIT  WITH  YEAST. 

Boil  two  large  potatoes,  and  mash  them  while  warm;  put 
in  one  tea-spoonful  of  sugar,  one  of  salt,  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  lard,  one  cup  of  yeast  or  a  yeast  cake ;  thicken  with  flour 
to  a  thick  dough.  In  the  morning,  work  in  a  little  more 
flour;  puncture  with  a  fork,  and  let  rise. 

YEAST-POWDER  BISCUIT. 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour,  four  ounces  of  butter 
and  lard  mixed,  one  table-spoonful  of  yeast-powder.  Eub 
the  yeast-powder,  salt,  lard,  and  butter  into  the  flour  dry 
until  well  mixed;  then  add  two  gills  of  water;  work  very 
little,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CREAM  BISCUIT. 

To  three  coffee-cups  of  sifted  flour  add  one  cup  of  sweet 
cream,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  yeast-powder,  a  little  salt;  mix, 
and  mold  as  little  as  possible  to  get  the  dough  in  shape. 
Bake  in  a  brisk  oven.  Should  the  cream  be  thin,  melt  a 
piece  of  butter  and  pour  into  it,  as  rubbing  shortening  into 
the  flour  makes  the  dough  less  spongy. 

NICE  BISCUIT-ROLLS  FOR  TEA. 

Make  a  nice  biscuit  dough,  roll  it  out  until  it  is  about  one 
eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  butter  it,  then  sprinkle  well  with 
sugar;  begin  at  one  end,  as  for  jelly-cake,  and  roll;  cut  in 
pieces  one  and  a  half  or  two  inches  long;  then  bake. 

SPLIT  BISCUIT. 

Two  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  iron-spoonfuls  of  yeast, 
one  table -spoonful  of  sugar,  one  of  butter  and  lard  mixed ; 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  101 

put  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough;  add  a  little  salt; 
cover  close  to  rise.  Next  morning,  put  on  pastry-board  and 
work  it;  roll  it  out  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  them  out  with  a 
biscuit-cutter.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  about  the  size  of  a  pea 
in  the  center  of  each  one,  and  put  another  biscuit  on  the  top; 
grease  your  pan,  and  put  your  biscuits  in  an  inch  apart,  and 
grease  each  one  of  them  on  the  top;  set  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise.  This  recipe  will  amply  repay  any  one  for  their 
trouble. 

ST.  JAMES  BREAD.— (Very  Nice.) 

One  pint  of  flour,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
lard  (even  full),  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  tea-spoon- 
fuls of  yeast-powder,  or  a  little  soda  and  sour  milk;  mix  the 
yeast-powder  in  the  flour;  beat  the  sugar  and  the  yelks  of 
the  eggs  together;  add  the  whites  well  beaten;  alternate 
flour  and  milk,  putting  in  a  little  at  a  time;  melt  lard  and 
pour  in  the  batter.  Bake  in  muffin-molds  or  baking-pans. 
Serve  hot. 

BELL  FRITTERS. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg; 
pour  over  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  set  it  on  the  stove 
until  ready  to  come  to  a  boil;  then  stir  in  a  pint  of  flour, 
making  a  smooth  paste;  stir  constantly  until  as  thick  as 
mush.  When  milk-warm,  stir  in  one  egg  at  a  time  until  five 
are  added;  put  in  a  little  salt;  make  into  small  balls,  and 
drop  into  boiling  lard ;  fry  until  a  light  brown. 

BREAKFAST  PUFFS. 

Take  one  pint  of  milk,  one  pint  of  flour,  two  eggs,  a  lump 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  salt;  place  the  flour 
in  a  bowl;  put  the  butter  in  the  center  of  the  flour;  break 
in  the  eggs,  and  knead  thoroughly;  then  gradually  add  the 
milk,  so  as  to  make  a  smooth  batter.     The  puffs  may  be  bak- 


102  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

ed  in  a  cast-iron  pan  with  small  divisions,  or  small  patty-pans. 
These  should  be  heated,  buttered,  and  filled  about  two  thirds 
full.  Place  in  a  quick  oven.  They  take  but  a  few  minutes 
to  bake. 

COLONNADE  PUFFS. 

Put  in  one  quart  of  milk  two  well-beaten  eggs,  with  very 
thin  batter  and  a  little  salt.  Grease  the  cup  thoroughly;  put 
half  full,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

TURN-OVERS. 

To  two  pints  of  flour  add  three  well-beaten  eggs,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  little  salt;  work  it  well,  and  put  it  to 
rise.  In  the  morning,  work  in  a  small  table-spoonful  of  but- 
ter ;  make  into  thin  cakes,  and  turn  half  edges,  not  quite 
meeting. 

PAPOOS.— (Good.) 

One  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  egg,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven  in  rings. 

HOMINY  BREAKFAST-DROPS. 

Mix  three  table-spoonfuls  of  boiled  hominy  with  two  of 
flour,  and  half  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Dissolve  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  in  a  gill  of  milk,  and  pour  it  on  the  hom- 
iny ;  add  flour  enough  to  roll  this  into  cakes,  and  cut  out 
like  biscuits.     Bake  quickly 

DECEPTIONS. 

Take  the  yelks  of  three  eggs  and  the  white  of  one  worked 
up  with  as  much  flour  as  will  make  it  as  thick  as  biscuit- 
dough.  Beat  well;  it  must  be  very  light.  Divide  in  small  pieces 
and  roll  very  thin;  have  ready  a  skillet  of  boiling  lard  ;  put 
one  in  at  a  time,  and  turn  as  soon  as  done ;  then  take  out 
and  put  on  a  sifter  or  dish,  and  sprinkle  sugar  on  them. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  103 

BANNOCKS. 

Take  four  tabic  spoonfuls  of  meal,  and  dissolve  in  a  little 
milk  or  water  to  a  liquid ;  pour  in  a  pint  of  boiling  milk ; 
add  a  little  salt  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  When  cold,  beat 
up  two  eggs  and  stir  them  in ;  grease  little  muffin-pans,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.     Very  nice  for  breakfast. 

CRUMPETS.— No.  I. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  tea-spoonfuls  cream  of  tartar  sifted 
in  the  flour,  two  eggs  beaten  separately  very  light,  one  spoon- 
ful of  salt,  one  quart  of  milk,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  some  of  the  milk,  and  put  in  last.  Bake  in  round 
cakes  to  cover  the  bottom  of  a  plate.  Butter  them,  while  hot, 
with  melted  butter. 

CRUMPETS.— No.  2. 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
yeast;  mix  in  one  pound  of  flour;  put  a  lump  of  sugar  in  a 
pint  of  warm  milk;  rub  all  together  until  free  of  lumps;  let 
it  stand  near  .the  fire  until  well  risen.  Bake  in  small  cake- 
pans. 

MUFFINS.— No.    1. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  eggs  beaten  very  light,  one  pint  of 
milk,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
one  yeast-cake.  Make  up  at  night  to  rise;  when  risen,  drop 
the  batter  from  the  spoon,  first  dipping  the  spoon  in  water 
to  prevent  sticking.  Let  rise  in  muffin-pans,  and  bake 
quickly. 

MUFFINS.— No.    2. 

Two  eggs  beaten  lightly,  a  table-spoonful  of  butter,  a  pint 
of  flour,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  yeast-powder, 
a  little  salt.  The  same  will  do  if  you  use  yeast  instead  of 
yeast-powder,  and  let  rise. 


104  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

CREAM  MUFFINS. 

One  tumbler  of  cream,  one  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  two  eggs, 
— the  whites  and  yelks  beaten  separately.  Bake  quickly  in 
patty-pans.     These  are  excellent. 

ST.  CHARLES  MUFFIN-BREAD. 

One  pint  of  meal,  one  pint  of  butter-milk,  two  eggs,  one 
table-spoonful  of  butter  (measure,  and  then  melt),  one  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  a  little  salt.  Bake  in 
pans  or  rings. 

MUFFINS  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

One  jiint  of  sweet  or  sour  milk,  one  half  pint  of  flour,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  soda,  two  tea-spoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  one 
half  tea-spoonful  of  salt.     Beat  well,  and  bake  quickly. 

WAFFLES.— No.  i. 

To  one  pint  of  milk  add  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  flour,  a  large 
table-spoonful  of  lard,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  carbonate  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk. 

MRS.  E.'s  RECEIPT  FOR  WAFFLES.— No.  2. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  pint  of  flour,  two  eggs,  two  large 
spoonfuls  of  melted  lard,  and  half  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 

WAFFLES.— No.  3. 

One  pint  of  milk,  half  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  flour  enough  to 
make  it  the  consistency  of  cream,  one  tea-cup  of  boiled  rice 
mashed  into  a  smooth  paste,  with  a  table-spoonful  of  buttor. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  in  just  before 
baking. 

WAFFLES.— No.  4. 

Into  one  quart  of  flour  sift  one  tea-spoonful  of*  soda  and 
one  of  salt.  Then  take  one  egg,  one  tea-spoonful  of  butter, 
and  one  table-spoonful  of  flour  creamed  together.     Then  add 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC.  105 

the  sifted  flour,  and  sufficient  butter-milk  to  make  a  good 
waffle-batter. 

SWEET-POTATO  WAFFLES. 

Two  table-spoonfuls  of  mashed  potatoes,  one  of  butter,  one 
of  sugar,  four  of  flour,  a  pint  of  milk,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of 
salt,  well  beaten  together.     Bake  in  waffle-irons. 

WAFERS. 

Put  in  a  quart  of  sifted  flour,  two  cups  of  butter;  wet  this 
with  a  tumbler  of  water,  into  which  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt 
has  been  dissolved ;  work  very  little;  cut  in  small  pieces; 
and  if  two  large  after  closing  the  irons,  trim  the  edges. 

CRACKERS. 

Rub  eight  ounces  of  butter  into  two  pounds  of  flour,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  salt,  two  of  soda,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  dough;  beat  it  with  a  rolling-pin  until  it  blisters ;  roll 
out  thin,  and  cut  with  a  tumbler;  bake  about  fifteen  minutes. 
They  may  be  returned  to  the  oven  after  they  are  all  baked, 
and  it  will  make  them  crisp. 

CRACKNELS. 

Take  a  quart  of  flour,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  the  yelks  of 
four  eggs  beaten  with  four  spqonfuls  of  rose  water;  mix  all 
to  a  stiff  paste  with  cold  water;  rub  in  a  pound  of  butter; 
make  into  cracknel  shapes;  put  them  into  boiling  water,  and 
boil  until  they  swim;  take  them  out,  and  put  them  in  cold 
water.  When  hardened,  lay  them  out  to  dry,  and  then  bake 
them  in  tin  plates. 

DUKE'S  BUCKWHEATS. 

Sift  together  one  quart  of  buckwheat  flour  and  one  tea- 
cupful  of  cornmeal;  add  one  table-spoonful  of  sugar,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  salt;  dissolve  a  table-spoonful  of  yeast-cake  in 
epid  water,  and  mix  with  the  flour  into  a  stiff  batter,  using 


106  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

tepid  water;  let  rise  all  night  in  a  warm  place.  Before  cook- 
ing, add  a  half  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  and  then  thin  the  batter 
to  the  proper  consistency. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES 

One  pint  of  buckwheat  mixed  at  night  with  a  yeast-cake. 
In  the  morning,  add  one  pint  of  buckwheat,  a  little  milk,  a 
tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  egg,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  molasses. 

FRENCH  TOAST. 

Beat  four  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  them  into  a  pint  of  cold 
rich  milk.  Slice  some  nice  baker's  bread;  dip  the  slices  into 
the  eggs  and  milk,  and  then  lay  them  into  a  skillet  of  hot 
lard  and  fry  brown ;  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sugar  over 
them  when  taken  out — and  a  little  cinnamon  also,  if  that 
spice  is  liked.  Serve  while  hot.  If  nicely  prepared,  this  is 
an  excellent  dish  for  breakfast  or  tea. 

CREAM  TOAST. 

Boil  one  quart  of  milk ;  stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of  butter 
and  a  little  salt;  take  two  table-spoonfuls  of  corn-starch  or 
flour  mixed  with  a  little  milk;  pour  it  into  the  quart  of  milk, 
and  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes.  Have  ready  the  toasted  bread 
on  a  dish,  and  pour  the  boiling  mixture  on  it;  send  to  the 
table  hot. 

FLANNEL  CAKES.— No.  I. 

One  pint  of  fresh  milk,  a  table-spoonful  of  butter  melted, 
four  eggs  (the  whites  and  yelks  beaten  separately),  one  spoon- 
ful of  yeast,  or  a  small  piece  of  yeast-cake  dissolved  in  a 
spoonful  of  tepid  water.  Put  this  in  with  the  yelks,  and 
thicken  with  a  quart  of  flour.  Lastly,  after  the  whites  are 
beaten,  mix  them  with  the  butter  and  milk;  then  mix  all  to- 
gether, and  beat  hard ;  set  it  a  few  hours  to  rise;  season  with 
salt  to  suit  the  taste. 


BREAD,   BISCUIT,  ETC.  10' 


FLANNEL  CAKES.— No.  2. 


Four  eggs,  one  pint  of  sour  cream,  one  pint  of  water,  one 
pint  and  a  half  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of  baking-powder 

sifted  with  the  flour,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 

FLANNEL  CAKES.-  No.  3. 

One  pint  of  nice  clabber,  one  pint  of  flour,  a  piece  of  but- 
ter or  lard  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  stirred 
in  the  milk,  two  eggs,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Beat  the 
eggs  separately,  and  stir  in  the  whites  last.     Very  good. 

BREAKFAST  CAKES. 

Take  a  saucerful  of  stale  bread-crumbs,  and  mix  with  a 
tea-cupful  of  milk;  add  three  eggs,  and  flour  sufficient  to 
make  a  good  batter,  a  tea-spoonful  of  yeast-powders,  a  half 
tea-spoonful  of  salt.     Bake  immediately. 

BATTER-CAKES. 

Put  a  half  tea-spoonful  of  lard  in  a  pint  of  sifted  meal ; 
pour  over  this  enough  boiling  water  to  thoroughly  moisten 
it;  add  one  quart  of  flour,  a  half  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and 
enough  sour  milk  to  make  a  good  batter,  a  half  tea-spoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  sour  milk,  and  one  well-beaten  egg. 

CORN-CAKES. 

One  pint  of  sifted  cornmeal,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  two 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  cream,  two  eggs 
well  beaten;  add  milk  until  it  is  a  thin  batter.  Bake  in 
pans. 

OWENDON  CORN-BREAD. 

Two  cups  of  boiled  hominy;  while  hot,  mix  with  it  a  large 
table-spoonful  of  butter  or  lard;  next  add  a  pint  of  milk 
stirred  in  gradually,  a  half  pint  of  cornmeal,  and  four  w.ell- 
beaten  eggs.  The  batter  should  be  the  consistency  of  rich 
boiled   custard ;  if    thicker,  add   more  milk.     Bake  with  a 


108  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

good  deal  of  heat  at  the  bottom  of  the  oven,  and  not  too 
much  at  the  top,  so  as  to  allow  it  to  rise.  The  pan  ought  to 
be  a  deep  one,  to  allow  for  rising.  It  has  the  appearance, 
when  cooked,  of  a  batter-pudding. 

RICE  CORN-BREAD. 

One  pint  of  boiled  rice,  one  pint  of  cornmeal,  one  ounce 
of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk;  beat  the  eggs 
very  light;  then  add  the  milk  and  melted  butter;  beat  the 
rice  until  perfectly  smooth,  and  then  add  the  eggs  and  milk. 
Lastly,  add  the  cornmeal;  beat  all  together  very  light,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CORN-BREAD. 

Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  two  cups  of  sour  milk  or 
butter-milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  boiling 
water,  one  table-spoonful  of  white  sugar,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
salt,  and  corn-meal  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Bake  in 
a  quick  oven. 

THE  FAMOUS  ST.  CHARLES  INDIAN-BREAD. 

Beat  two  eggs  very  light;  mix  alternately  with  them  one 
pint  of  sour  milk  or  butter-milk,  one  pint  of  fine  cornmeal; 
melt  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  and  add  to  the  mixture. 
Dissolve  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  or  salaratus  in  a  small 
quantity  of  the  milk ;  then  beat  all  hard,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

SWEET-POTATO  CORN-BREAD. 

One  quart  of  cornmeal,  a  half  pint  of  milk,  half  a  pound 
of  sweet-potatoes,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  brown 
sugar,  and  eight  eggs.  Boil  and  mash  the  potatoes  ;  rub  tl  e 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  and  add  them  to  the  potatoes; 
next  beat  the  eggs  well,  and  stir  them  in  the  mixture;  then 
add  the  milk,  and  then  the  meal.  Beat  all  well  together, 
and  bake  in  a  pan  in  a  moderate  oven. 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC  109 

PLAIN  CORN-BREAD. 

Mix  the  meal  with  cold  water  to  a  stiff  dough ;  salt  to  suit 
the  taste ;  shape  with  the  hand  in  small  cakes  or  loaves.  Do 
not  bake  too  long,  or  the  crust  will  be  too  hard. 


110  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CAKE. 


Cake,  to  be  nice,  should  be  made  of  the  best  materials. 
Butter  and  eggs  should  both  be  fresh.  Some  persons  enter- 
tain the  mistaken  notion  that  butter  which  can  not  be  eaten 
on  bread  will  do  very  well  for  cake.  On  the  contrary,  the 
baking  increases  the  bad  flavor.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  wash 
the  butter  in  clear  water  before  using  it.  The  whites  and 
yelks  of  the  eggs  should  be  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  separately. 
Brown  sugar  will  answer  for  some  kinds  of  cake,  if  free  from 
lumps  and  creamed  well  with  the  butter.  When  soda  is 
used,  dissolve  before  adding  to  the  general  mixture.  Butter 
the  baking-pan  well,  covering  the  bottom  with  buttered 
white  paper.  In  cake-baking  much  of  the  success  depends 
on  the  oven,  which  should  be  well  and  evenly  heated  before 
the  cake  is  put  in ;  and  never  allow  the  heat  to  diminish,  or 
the  cake  will  fall, — except  fruit-cake,  which  should  remain 
in  the  oven,  while  it  cools  Mown  gradually.  Avoid  moving 
the  cake  while  baking,  as  it  tends  to  make  it  heavy.  When 
the  cake  is  done  it  will  leave  the  sides  of  the  pan.  It  is  a 
good  plan  to  put  a  pan  filled  with  warm  water  on  the  top 
range  of  the  stove  after  the  cake  rises,  as  it  prevents  burning 
or  cooking  too  fast.  To  prevent  browning  too  fast,  lay  a  pa- 
per over  the  top  of  the  cake.  Avoid  any  contact  of  draft 
while  baking. 

FRUIT-CAKE.— No.  i. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of 
flour,  twelve  eggs,  three  pounds  of  raisins,  three  pounds  of 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CAKE.  \\\ 

currants,  two  pounds  of  citron,  three  pounds  of  almonds, 
chopped,  not  too  fine,  one  ounce  of  allspice,  one  ounce  of  cin- 
namon, one  pint  of  brandy,  half  pint  of  rose-water,  three  ta- 
ble-spoonfuls of  cloves,  and  two  nutmegs.  The  fruit  should 
be  dredged  with  sifted  flour,  before  putting  it  in  the  batter, 
to  prevent  its  sinking;  stir  in  lightly.  Put  white  paper  in 
the  bottom  of  pans — grease  well  with  butter;  then  put  in  a 
layer  of  batter  and  a  layer  of  citron,  until  the  pans  are  full. 

FRUIT-CAKE.— No.  2. 

Toast  pound-cake,  roll  very  fine,  and  sift  it;  use  one  pound 
of  this  instead  of  flour,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of 
white  sugar,  one  dozen  eggs,  three  pounds  of  raisins,  two 
pounds  of  currants,  one  pound  of  citron,  one  pound  of  al- 
monds blanched  and  chopped,  not  very  fine,  half  a  tumbler 
of  good  sherry  or  Madeira  wine,  half  a  tumbler  of  French 
brandy,  one  nutmeg,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  cloves,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  allspice,  and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  cinnamon. 

FRUIT-CAKE.— No.  3. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  ten  eggs, — leav- 
ing out  four  whites, — one  pound  of  flour,  two  pounds  of  rai- 
sins, stoned  and  chopped  fine,  two  pounds  of  currants,  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  citron,  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  half  a 
cup  of  sour  cream,  one  gill  of  brandy,  one  ounce  nutmeg, 
half  ounce  of  cloves,  half  ounce  of  cinnamon,  half  ounce  of 
allspice,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  This  makes  one  large 
loaf.     Bake  five  hours. 

WEDDING-CAKE. 

Five  pounds  of  flour,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  three  and  one 
half  pounds  of  butter,  three  dozen  eggs,  leaving  out  four 
whites,  six  pounds  of  washed  and  well-dried  currants,  two 
pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  two  pounds  of  citron,  two  ounces 
of  mace,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one  ounce  of  cloves,  one 
cup  of  molasses,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  two  wine-glassfuls 


112  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

of  good  brandy.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  the 
'thoroughly  beaten  eggs;  molasses,  brandy,  and  spices  should 
then  be  added.  Stir  the  flour  in  gently.  The  fruit  should 
be  well  rubbed  in  flour  extra  from  the  five  pounds.  Citron 
should  be  sliced  thin  and  set  in  two  or  three  thick  layers,  as 
the  dough  is  put  in  the  pans.  Bake  gently  three  or  four 
hours. 

WHITE  FRUIT-CAKE.— No.  i. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  citron,  one  pound  of 
flour,  half  pound  of  butter,  twelve  eggs,  yelks  and  whites 
beaten  separately,  two  grated  cocoa-nuts,  one  pound  of 
blanched  almonds,  split,  two  tea-spoonfuls  cream  of  tartar, 
and  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda. 

WHITE  FRUIT-CAKE.— No.  2 

Twelve  eggs,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one 
pound  of  flour,  two  pounds  of  citron — some  sliced,  and  some 
chopped  fine;  two  pounds  of  blanched  almonds,  two  grated 
cocoa-nuts,  one  wine-glassful  of  wine,  one  table-spoonful  of 
mace,  one  table-spoonful  of  cinnamon,  and  two  tea-spoonfuls 
of  yeast-powder.     Do  not  bake  as  long  as  black  fruit-cake. 

WHITE  FRUIT-CAKE.— No.  3. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of 
sugar,  one  pound  of  grated  cocoa-nut,  one  pound  of  citron 
cut  in  small  slices,  one  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and  cut 
fine,  one  pound  of  English  walnuts,  and  twelve  eggs. 

LOAF-CAKE. 

Ten  eggs,  with  three  whites  left  out,  one  pound  of  sugar, 
one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  citron, 
two  pounds  of  currants,  two  table-spoonfuls  cinnamon,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  cloves,  four  grated  nutmegs,  one  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, and  one  wine-glass  of  brandy.  Use  the  whites  for 
frosting. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CAKE.  \\% 


CUP  FRUIT-CAKE. 

Four  cups  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  cup  of  sugar,  one  half 
cup  of  molasses,  four  egge,  one  large  cup  of  butter,  one  pound 
of  currants,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  half  pound  of  citron, 
one  half  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  half  tea-spoonful  of  cloves, 
half  tea-spoonful  cinnamon,  half  tea-spoonful  spice,  and  one 
half  tea-cup  of  wine,  or  water. 

POUND-CAKE.— No.  i. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar, 
and  one  pound  of  butter.  Cream  the  butter  and  flour  together 
till  perfectly  light.  Beat  the  eggs  separately,  beating  the 
sugar  with  the  yelks ;  then  add  alternately  the  whites  and 
creamed  butter.  Lastly,  add  one  table-spoonful  of  lemon- 
juice,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  extract  of  lemon.  Bake 
quickly. 

POUND-CAKE.— No.  2a 

Twelve  eggs,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one 
pound  of  flour.  Flavor  with  extract  of  lemon  or  vanilla,  to 
taste.  » 

POUND-CAKE.— No.  3. 

Ten  eggs,  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour, 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  the  juice  of  one 
lemon.  Kub  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Sift  the 
flour,  adding  one  tea-spoonful  of  yeast  powder.  Beat  the 
yelks  of  the  eggs  and  add  them  to  the  butter  and  sugar; 
then  put  in  the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Stir  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth ;  then  add  the  flour  and  whites  alternately.  Beat  all 
together  well.     Bake  one  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

POUND-CAKE.— No.  4. 

Ten  eggs,  one  and  quarter  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of 
butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  quarter  ounce  of  ammonia 
dissolved  in  a  gill  of  water. 


114  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

POUND-CAKE.— No.  5. 

Ten  eggs,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  three 
quarters  pound  of  butter,  one  wine-glass  of  brandy,  one  nut- 
meg, one  tea-spoonful  of  mace.  Cream  the  butter,  and  rub 
in  half  the  flour;  add  bi'andy,  nutmeg,  and  mace.  Beat  the 
yelks  of  the  eggs,  and  add  the  sugar ;  then  the  well-beaten 
whites  and  the  remainder  of  the  flour  alternately.  When 
thoroughly  mixed,  beat  all  half  an  hour. 

POUND-CAKE.— No.  6. 

Beat  separately  six  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  half  pound 
of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  and  two  of  cream  of  tartar. 

WHITE  POUND-CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  three  fourths 
pound  of  butter  washed  and  worked  to  a  cream;  ten  eggs, 
leaving  out  three  yelks;  one  half  cup  of  cream — if  sour  stir  in 
a  little  soda  to  sweeten.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  extract  of 
almonds. 

CORN-STARCH  CAKE. 

One  quarter  of  a  pound  of  corn-starcb,  one  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  one  half  pound  of 
sugar,  and  the  whites  of  eight  eggs.  Rub  one  tea-spoonful 
cream  of  tartar  in  the  flour,  dissolve  one  half  tea-spoonful 
of  soda  in  a  small  quantity  of  sweet  milk,  and  put  in  last. 

SPONGE-CAKE.— No.  1. 

Beat  the  yelks  of  ten  eggs,  with  one  pound  of  sugar,  then 
add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten.  Stir  in  a  little  over 
a  half  pound  of  flour,  and  bake  with  a  moderate  fire.  Never 
beat  after  the  flour  is  added. 

SPONGE-CAKE.— No.  2. 
Nine  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  half  a  pound  of  flour. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CAKE.  H5 

Flavor  with  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Beat 
the  eggs  separately,  and  stir  in  the  flour  a  little  at  a  time. 
Add  an  extra  table  spoonful  of  flour. 

SPONGE-CAKE.— No.  3. 

One  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  twelve  eggs,  one  pound  two 
ounces  of  flour. 

SPONGE-CAKE.— No.  4. 

Take  as  many  eggs  as  you  please,  the  weight  of  the  eggs 
in  sugar,  half  their  weight  in  flour. 

WHITE  SPONGE-CAKE. 

Take  the  whites  of  twenty  eggs,  two  and  one  half  cups 
of  sugar,  one  and  one  half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  corn- 
starch, and  two  tea-spoonfuls  cream  of  tartar.  Whip  the  eggs 
as  light  as  possible ;  sift  in  the  sugar,  then  the  flour,  corn- 
starch, and  cream  of  tartar  mixed  together.     Flavor  to  taste. 

BOILED  SPONGE-CAKE. 

Seven  eggs,  three  fourths  of  pound  of  sugar,  half  pound  of 
flour;  flavor  to  suit  the  taste.  Pour  two  wine-glasses  of 
water  on  the  sugar,  and  boil  till  it  feathers  from  the  spoon. 
Have  the  whites  and  yelks  well  beaten ;  mix  them  and  pour 
on  them  the  boiling  sugar,  stirring  briskly ;  beat  until  cold, 
and  add  the  flour. 

HOT-WATER  SPONGE-CAKE. 

Four  eggs,  three  light  cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
half  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  and  one  tea-spoonful  cream  of 
tartar;  add  one  half  cup  of  boiling  water  just  before  baking. 

CHEAP  SPONGE-CAKE. 

Three  eggs  beat  with  one  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar ;  add  one 
cup  of  flour,  beat  three  minutes,  one  half  cup  of  milk,  add 
one  cup  of  flour  with  one  tea-spoonful  of  yeast-powder.  Fla- 
vor to  taste. 


116  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

SPONGE-CAKE. 

Twelve  eggs,  the  weight  of  ten  in  sugar  and  six  in  flour, 
Flavor  with  lemon.  Bake  the  cake  in  a  paste  of  ryemeal  or 
Graham  meal — the  fine  siftings  of  wheat-bran,  mixed  with  a 
little  flour,  to  make  it  roll,  is  just  as  good.  Line  the  pan  as 
for  'a  meat  pie;  slightly  butter  the  crust  before  putting  in 
the  batter.  This  will  leave  no  crust  upon  the  cake,  and 
will  prevent  it  from  drying,  if  the  cake  is  to  be  kept  any 
length  of  time. 

LADY-FINGERS. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  two  ounces  of  flour;  flavor 
to  suit  the  taste ;  sixteen  eggs — beat  yelks  and  sugar  together, 
and  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth ;  stir  in  flour  lightly,  and 
never  beat  any  mixture  long  after  adding  the  flour,  as  it 
toughens  it.  Make  a  funnel-shaped  bag  of  canvas,  insert  a 
tube  (tin  will  answer)  half  inch  in  diameter,  in  the  small 
end.  Use  this  bag  to  shape  your  lady-fingers  on  the 
paper,  then  dust  them  lightly  with  powdered  sugar. 
After  they  are  done  and  cool,  wet  the  paper,  and  they  will 
come  off  easily;  this  will  moisten  the  lady-fingers;  stick  two 
together,  back  to  back,  while  moist. 

GOLD-CAKE.-No.   I. 

Beat  the  yelks  of  eight  eggs,  very  light,  and  mix  with 
them  one  cup  of  sugar  and  three  fourths  cup  of  butter,  pre- 
viously stirred  to  a  cream.  Add  two  cups  of  sifted  flour, 
half  a  tea  spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  half  a  cup  of  sweet 
milk;  when  well  mixed  stir  in  one  tea-spoonful  cream  of  tar- 
tar.    Flavor  to  taste, 

GOLD-CAKE.— No.  2. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  three  fourths 
pound  butter,  yelks  of  fourteen  eggs.  Work  the  butter  and 
sugar  well  together,  then  add  the  eggs  after  being  well 
beaten,  one  tea-spoonful  of    yeast-powder,  then  the   flour. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CAKE.  WJ 

When  well  mixed,  add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  two 
lemons. 

SILVER-CAKE.— No.  i. 

.  One  pound  of  white  sugar,  three  fourths  pound  flour,  half 
pound  of  butter,  whites  of  fourteen  eggs.  Beat  the  sugar 
and  eggs  till  it  looks  like  icing;  cream  the  butter  and 
flour  well  together;  then  mix  with  the  icing.  When  well 
mixed  add  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  yeast-powder,  dissolved  in 
wine.     Flavor  to  taste. 

SILVER-CAKE.— No.  2. 
Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  two  and  a  half  cups  sifted  flour, 
half  cup  of  butter,  three  fourths  cup  sweet  milk,  half  tea- 
spoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  the  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  cream 
of  tartar,  and  the  whites  of  eight  eggs.  Flavor  with  peach, 
vanilla,  or  rose-water.  Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream; 
add  the  eggs  beaten  stiff,  then  the  flour,  and  the  milk  and 
soda.  Stir  the  whole  several  minutes,  then  add  the  cream 
of  tartar  and  essence. 

SILVER-CAKE— No.  3. 

Whites  of  twelve  eggs,  three  cups  of  white  sugar,  one  and 
a  half  cup  of  butter,  four  and  a  half  cups  flour,  and  one 
fourth  cup  sour  cream.  Dissolve  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  in 
a  table-spoonful  of  boiling  water,  two  tea-spoonfuls  cream  of 
tartar,  sifted  in  the  flour;  stir  the  butter  and  flour  together; 
beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  then  add  the  sugar  and  beat  it 
well ;  stir  in  the  butter  and  flour  and  cream  all  together 
well.     Flavor  with  peach;  put  the  soda  in  last. 

DELICATE-CAKE.— No.  1. 

The  whites  of  fourteen  eggs,  one  pound  of  pulverized  white 
sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter.    Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  flour  alter- 


118  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

nately   with   the   eggs;    a   half  cup   of  sweet   milk.     Bake 
quickly. 

DELICATE-CAKE.— No.   2. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour, 
half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Fla- 
vor to  taste. 

LADY-CAKE.— No.  1. 

The  whites  of  eighteen  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one 
pound  of  butter,  one  and  one  fourth  pounds  of  flour,  one  ta- 
ble-spoonful grated  sweet  almouds,  and  three  tea-spoonfuls 
of  extract  of  rose. 

LADY-CAKE.— No.  2. 

'Whites  of  six  eggs  well  beaten,  four  tea-cups  of  sifted 
flour,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  cups  of 
white  sugar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  and  two  tea-spoonfuls 
cream  of  tartar.  If  sour  milk  is  used,  leave  out  the  cream 
of  tartar. 

CUP-CAKE.— No.  1. 

Six  eggs,  three  cups  of  sugar,  five  light  cups  of  sifted  flour, 
one  heaping  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk  and  water, — two 
thirds  milk  and  one  third  water, — and  a  tea-spoonful  of  yeast- 
powder.     Flavor  to  taste. 

CUP  CAKE.— No.  2. 

One  cup  of  butter  and  three  of  sugar  worked  to  a  cream, 
a  half  wine-glassful  of  wine,  five  eggs  beat  separately,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  soda  sifted  with  five  cups  of  sifted  flour,  a 
little  nutmeg,  and  lastly  a  cup  of  sour  cream.  Bake  in 
round  tins,  in  a  moderately  quick  oven.  Fruit  may  be 
added  if  desired.  Frost  while  the  cake  is  warm,  and  it  will 
keep  some  time  without  becoming  stale. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CAKE.  H9 

CUP-CAKE.— No.  3. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  of  sugar, 
three  of  flour,  four  eggs,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  yeast-pow- 
der.    Flavor  with  extract  of  vanilla. 

CREAM  CUP-CAKE. 

Four  cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  cream, 
and  four  eggs.  Beat  well  and  bake  in  square  tin-pans,  and 
when  cold  cut  in  squares.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

WHITE  CUP-CAKE. 

One  large  coffee-cup  of  cream  or  very  rich  milk — best  when 
sour,  one  cup  of  fresh  butter,  four  cups  of  sifted  flour,  and 
two  cups  of  sugar.  Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  together  until 
quite  light,  then  by  degrees  add  the  cream  alternately  with 
half  the  flour.  Beat  five  eggs  separately,  veiy  light,  and 
stir  alternately  with  the  remainder  of  the  flour.  Add  essence 
of  lemon,  and  lastly,  a  tea  spoonful  of  soda. 

CUP  CHOCOLATE-CAKE. 

Six  eggs,  three  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  four  cups  of  flour, 
one  cup  of  milk,  one  and  one  half  cups  of  grated  chocolate, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  yeast-powder. 

COFFEE  CUP-CAKE. 

One  cup  of  cold,  strong  coffee,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  molasses,  one  cup  of  stoned  raisins,  one  cup  of  butter,  five 
cups  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  tea-spoonful  of  all- 
spice, and  one  tea  spoonful  of  cinnamon. 

JELLY-CAKE. 

Use  cup-cake  recipe,  and  bake  in  jelly-cake  pans.  When 
partially  cold  spread  a  layer  of  jelly  or  marmelade  alternat- 
ing with  cake-layers,  till  it  is  the  thickness  desired.  Let  a 
layer  of  cake  be  on  top. 


120  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK, 

ROLL  JELLY-CAKE. 

Four  eggs,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  cream  of  tar- 
tar, half  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  This  will  make  two  cakes.  Spread  thin  on  long  tins} 
and  bake.  When  baked,  turn  from  the  tins;  spread  jelly 
quickly  over  the  cake  while  warm,  and  roll  immediately. 

LEMON  JELLY-CAKE. 

Six  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar  beaten  well  together,  three 
cups  of  sifted  flour,  a  small  pinch  of  salt,  eight  table-spoon- 
fuls of  cold  water  and  three  tea-spoonfuls  of  yeast-powder. 
Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans,  in  a  quick  oven.  Filling  for  above. — 
Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  lemons,  juice  and  grated 
rinds,  one  tea-cupful  of  water  thickened  to  the  consistency 
of  rich  cream,  with  flour.  Let  all  boil  together,  and  when 
cool  spread  between  the  cakes. 

SPONGE  LAYER-CAKE. 

One  coffee-cup  of  sugar,  one  coffee-cup  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  yeast-powder,  or  one  tea-spoonful  cream  of  tar- 
tar, half  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  table-spoonful  of  milk,  and 
two  eggs.  Bake  in  thin  pans,  as  for  jelly-cake.  Filling  for 
cake. — One  pint  of  milk,  one  large  table-spoonful  of  corn-starch, 
the  yelks  of  three  eggs;  boil  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  The 
whites  of  eggs  save  for  merangue.  When  this  is  cold,  lay 
alternate  layers  of  cake  and  the  filling.  The  merangue  is 
made  by  beating  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs  with  a  small 
cup  of  pulverized  white  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  add 
a  little  citric  acid  to  make  it  stiff  and  white;  beat  well.  Lay 
this  on  the  top  cake,  and  put  it  in  the  oven  to  get  hard,  but 
not  brown.     Then  put  this  on  the  others  for  the  top  layer. 

MOUNTAIN-CAKE. 

Six  eggs,  one  pound  and  a  half  ounce  of  flour,  half  pound  of 
butter,  two  tea-spoonfuls  cream  of  tartar  sifted  in  the  flour,  one 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CAKE.  121 

tea-cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved 
in  a  little  boiling  water,  to  be  added  last.  Bake  in' jelly- 
pans.  When  cold,  put  the  following  mixtures  between  the 
layers  of  cake.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  dampen  one 
pound  of  white  sugar  with  the  milk  of  a  cocoa-nut,  and  make 
this  into  hot  icing,  and  thicken  with  grated  cocoa-nut. 
Spread  this  on  the  cake,  as  for  jelly-cake. 

CHOCOLATE-CAKE.— No.  i. 

Half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
three  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  and 
two  of  cream  of  tartar.  Bake  in  jelly-pans.  Mix  one  cup  of 
grated  chocolate,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
milk,  and  one  egg.  Boil  until  as  thick  as  custard  ;  when 
cool,  flavor  with  vanilla ;  spread  between  layers  of  cake,  as 
in  jelly-cake. 

CHOCOLATE-CAKE.— No.  2. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  small  cup  of  butter,  four  eggs — leav- 
ing out  the  whites  of  two,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  and  a  half 
cups  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  cream  of  tartar,  and  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda.  Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans.  Prepare  a  filling 
to  put  between  the  layers  of  cake.  Six  table-spoonfuls  of 
grated  chocolate,  whites  of  two  eggs  not  beaten,  one  and  a 
half  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla. 
Mix  the  eggs  and  chocolate  in  a  bowl;  set  the  bowl  in  hot 
water  on  the  stove,  and  stir  the  mixture  until  smooth  and 
shining;  then  add  sugar  and  vanilla. 

COCOA-NUT-CAKE.— No.  1.  ' 

Twelve   eggs, — whites   only, — one   pound   of  sugar,   half 

pound  of  butter,  half  pound  of  cocoa-nut,  three  fourths  pound 

of  flour. 

COCOA-NUT-CAKE.— No.  2. 

One  coffee-cup  of  butter,  two  eoffee-cupB  of  powdered  sugar, 
three  coffee-cups  of  flour,  ten  eggs,  one  tea-spoonful  cream  of 


122  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

tartar,  one  half  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  and  one  cocoa-nut 
finely  grated.  Stir  the  hutter  and  sugar  together  till  it  be- 
comes creamy,  then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth ;  next  the  yelks,  beaten  very  light.  Then  stir  in 
one  cup  of  flour,  then  the  soda,  dry;  then  another  cup  of 
flour  and  the  cream  of  tartar,  dry;  then  the  last  cup  of  flour 
followed  by  the  cocoa-nut  stirred  in  very  lightly.  Put  in 
the  oven  without  delay.  This  cake  requires  very  careful 
baking. 

ANGEL'S  FOOD. 

Grate  one  cocoa-nut,  one  pound  of  grated  chocolate ;  take 
the  whites  of  four  eggs  and  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar ; 
let  it  cook  as  in  boiled  icing.  When  it  begins  to  rope  take 
half  of  it  and  mix  with  all  the  chocolate;  the  other  half  mix 
with  the  cocoa-nut,  reserving  enough  of  the  nut  to  sprinkle 
on  top  of  the  cake.  Have  either  pound  or  cup  cake 
baked  in  jelly- cake  pans.  Put  a  layer  of  cake,  chocolate, 
then  cake,  then  cocoa-nut,  cake,  jelly,  &c,  till  it  is  the  size 
desired. 

ORANGE-CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  half  cup  of  water  or 
milk,  the  yelks  of  five  eggs  and  the  whites  of  three,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  yeast-powder,  and  grated  rind  of  an  orange. 
Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins.  Filling  for  above. — The  whites  of 
two  eggs  well  beaten  with  one  pound  of  pulverized  sugar, 
and  the  juice  of  the  orange.  Spread  this  icing  between  and 
on  top  of  the  cake.  Lemon  may  be  used  instead  of  orange, 
if  preferred. 

CREAM-CAKES. 

Haifa  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour,  tea-spoonful  of 
sugar,  half  tea  spoonful  of  salt;  rub  them  smoothly  together, 
and  stir  into  one  quart  of  boiling  milk ;  stir  constantly 
over  the  fire,  till  it  clears  from  the  kettle;  set  aside  to  cool. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CAKE.  123 

When  cool  break  in  ten  eggs,  stirring  well;  add  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  in  half  a  cup  of  cream.  Drop  on  buttered 
pans;  shape  with  the  hands  in  turban  form,  and  rub  a  beaten 
egg  over  them  with  a  feather.  Bake  moderately  twenty 
minutes  ;  when  done,  open  one-  side  with  a  knife  and  fill  with 
the  following  custard:  One  pint  of  water,  one  quarter 
pound  of  butter,  and  three  quarters  pound  of  flour.  Put  the 
butter  in  the  water;  while  boiling,  stir  in  the  flour  smoothly  ; 
then  pour  out  to  cool.     Beat  in  ten  eggs,  one  at  a  time. 

CREAM-CAKES  FOR  DESSERT. 

A  pint  of  cold  water  or  milk,  three  fourths  pound  of  flour, 
and  one  fourth  pound  of  butter.  Boil  the  butter  and  milk 
together;  while  boiling,  add  the  flour.  When  cool,  add  ten 
eggs  and  a  small  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Bake  in  jelly-pans. 
Cream  for  cakes. — One  quart  of  milk,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  flour,  and  four  eggs.  Boil  part  of  the  milk  and  flour 
together;  then  add  cold  milk  and  eggs,  and  boil  a  few  min- 
utes.    Flavor  with  lemon. 

CREAM-CAKES. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour, 
one  cup  of  milk,  four  eggs,  a  tea-spoonful  of  lemon, — or  any 
extract  desired, — and  a  table-spoonful  of  yeast-powder. 
Bake  in  jelly-pans.  Make  a  custard  of  one  pint  of  milk,  two 
eggs,  a  half  cup  of  sugar,  a  table- spoonful  of  corn  starch,  and 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  When  cold,  place  be- 
tween the  cakes  as  you  do  jell}-. 

BOSTON  CREAM-CAKES. 

Half  pound  of  butter,  three  fourths  pound  flour,  eight  eggs, 
and  one  pint  of  water.  Stir  the  butter  into  the  water,  which 
should  be  warm;  set  it  on  the  fire  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  slowly 
bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  it  often.  When  it  boils,  put  in 
the  flour  and  boil  one  minute,  stirring  all  the  while;  take 


124  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

from  the  fire,  turn  into  a  deep  dish,  and  let  it  cool.  Beat  the 
eggs  very  light  and  whip  into  this  cooled  paste,  first  the 
yelks  then  the  whites.  Drop  in  a  great  spoonful  upon  but- 
tered paper,  taking  care  not  to  let  them  touch  or  run  into 
each  other,  and  bake  ten  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  Cream 
for  filling. — One  quart  of  milk,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch, two  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar;  wet  the  corn-starch 
with  enough  milk  to  work  it  into  a  smooth  paste.  Boil  the 
rest  of  the  milk ;  beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar  and  corn-starch 
to  them,  and  so  soon  as  the  milk  boils  pour  in  the  mixture 
gradually,  stirring  all  the  time  until  smooth  and  thick. 
Drop  in  a  tea-spoonful  of  butter,  and  when  this  is  mixed  in 
set  the  custard  aside  to  cool.  Then  flavor  with  vanilla  or 
lemon:  Pass  a  sharp  knife  lightlyv  around  the  puff;  split 
them,  and  fill  with  the  mixture. 

MARBLE-CAKE.— No.  i. 

Dark. — Yelks  of  seven  eggs,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one 
cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  molasses,  five  cups  of  flour  unsifted 
one  cup  of  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  cloves,  nutmeg 
cinnamon,  and  allspice;  dissolve  the  soda  in  molasses. 

Light. — Whites  of  seven  eggs,  two  cups  of  white  sugar, 
one  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of  flour,  half  cup  of  milk,  one 
tea-spoonful  cream  of  tartar,  half  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Put 
alternately  about  a  handful  of  each,  or  any  way  the  taste 
may  dictate  to  be  prettily  marbled.  A  part  of  the  light  may 
be  colored  with  cochineal,  and  put  in  with  the  light  and  dark 
with  good  effect. 

MARBLE-CAKE.— No.  2. 

The  White. — Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
one  of  sweet  milk,  four  of  flour,  whites  of  eight  eggs  well 
beaten,  one  tea  spoonful  cream  of  tartar,  and  one  half  spoon- 
ful of  soda,  cream,  butter,  and  sugar;  add  milk;  then  flour, 
with  cream  of  tartar  in  it,  alternating  with  white  of 
Qgg ;  lastly,  the  soda  well  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  milk. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CAKE.  J 25 

The  Brown  Part. — One  large  cup  of  brown  sugar,  half  a 
cup  of  butter,  two  thirds  cup  of  milk,  two  and  a  half  cups  of 
flour  with  a  tea-spoonful  cream  of  tartar  rubbed  into  it,  the 
yelks  of  eight  eggs,  half  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  two  tea-spoon- 
fuls of  powdered  cloves,  four  of  cinnamon,  four  of  allspice, 
and  one  grated  nutmeg.  If  not  dark  enough,  add  more  cin- 
namon and  spice.  Drop  the  white  batter  first  into  the  bake- 
pan,  and  then  the  brown,  having  the  white  to  finish  off  on 

the  top. 

.   I 
SPICE-CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of  sugar,  four  of 
flour,  one  of  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  yeast-powder,  one 
table-spoonful  of  allspice,  ginger,  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  half 
a  nutmeg. 

MOLASSES  SPICE-CAKE 

•  One  dozen  eggs,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar, 
a  pint  of  molasses,  two  pounds  of  flour,  a  wine-glassful  of 
spices,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda.     Mix  like  pound-cake. 

ALMOND-CAKE. 

Ten  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour.  Add  half 
a  pound  of  almonds,  blanched  and  beaten  fine,  with  a  wine- 
glassful  of  rose-water. 

HICKORY-NUT  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  thirds  cup  of  sweet  cream, 
two  cups  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  and  two  cream  of 
tartar;  season  with  lemon  or  cinnamon  extract,  or  with 
grated  nutmeg.  Bake  on  jelly-tins,  enough  for  four  layers. 
Filling  beticeen  the  layers. — One  cup  of  sweet,  thin  cream;  put 
on  a  dish  and  bring  to  a  boil ;  dissolve  a  table-spoonful  of 
corn-starch  in  new  milk,  and  stir  into  the  heated  cream; 
cook  a  few  minutes,  then  add  to  the  cooked  cream  a  pint  of 


126  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

hickory-nut  meats  sliced  finely.     Spread   between  the  layers 
of  cake  while  warm;  frost  the  top  layer  of  cake. 

WASHINGTON-CAKE. 

Two  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of 
sugar,  six  eggs,  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  gill 
of  milk,  half  a  gill  of  brandy,  half  a  pound  of  eitron,  one  nut- 
meg, one  tea-spoonful  of  cloves,  one  of  soda,  one  pound  of 
raisins,  And  one  pound  of  currants. 

QUEEN-CAKE. , 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  half  pound  of  but- 
ter, five  eggs,  one  gill  of  cream,  one  nutmeg,  half  tea-spoonful 
of  soda,  and  two  pounds  of  chopped  raisins. 

IRENE-CAKE. 

Five  cups  of  flour,  two  of  butter,  four  of  sugar,  one  of  milk, 
one  of  wine,  six  eggs,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  of  cloves, 
one  orange-peel,  one  pound  of  citron,  and  two  pounds  of 
washed  currants.     Beat  the  whites  and  yelks  separately 

GRAHAM-CyVKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  of  sour  cream,  one  egg,  three  cups 
of  flour,  soda,  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

CORN-STARCH  CAKE. 

Three  fourths  pound  of  butter,  three  fourths  pound  of 
sugar,  six  eggs,  three  fourths  pound  of  corn-starch,  and 
one  fourth  pound  of  flour.  Beat  into  it  one  egg  at  a  time. 
Flavor  with  lemon — a  fresh  lemon  is  best. 

BEVERLY-CAKE. 

Six  cups  of  flour,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
one  cup  of  milk,  half  cup  of  molasses,  four  eggs,  raisins,  spice, 
a  little  salt,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CAKE.  127 

IMPERIAL-CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  but- 
ter, one  pound  of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  half  pound  of 
blanched  almonds,  one  fourth  pound  citron,  eight  eggs,  two 
wine-glasses  of  wine,  and  half  tea-spoonful  of  mace. 

FRANCIS-CAKE. 

Six  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  half  pound  of  butter,  one 
pound  of  flour,  half  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two  tea-spoonfuls 
soda,  dissolved  in  extra  milk,  just  enough  to  dissolve  it.  The 
cream  of  tartar  must  be  sifted  dry  into  the  flour;  put  the 
soda  in  just  before  cooking.     Flavor  with  essence  of  lemon. 

CROTON  SPONGE-CAKE. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  half  pound  of  but- 
ter, six  eggs,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  small 
tea-cupful  of  sweet  milk,  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  cream  of  tar- 
tar sifted  in  flour.     Bake  quickly. 

MEASURE-CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  six  cups  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  cuds 
of  butter,  six  eggs,  three  tea-spoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  one 
and  a  half  tea-spoonfuls  of  soda,  and  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
milk. 

SODA-CAKE.— No.  i. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  but- 
ter, one  quart  of  flour,  and  seven  eggs.  After  all  are  well 
mixed  together,  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  and  two  cream  of 
tartar;  dissolve  each  in  half  a  cup  of  water.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven  ;  flavor  with  essence  of  lemon,  to  your  taste. 

SODA-CAKE.— No.  2. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  two  tea-spoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  one 


128  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


tea-spoonful  of  soda,  three  cups  of  flour,  and  two  eggs ;    re- 
serve the  whites  for  merangue.     Bake  about  an  inch  thick. 

CURRANT-CAKE. 

One  and  one  quarter  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter 
twelve  eggs,  one  quarter  ounce  of  ammonia  dissolved  in  a 
gill  of  water,  two  pounds  two  ounces  of  flour,  and  three  quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  washed  and  dried  currants,  put  in  just  be- 
fore baking. 

PIPER-CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
molasses,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  tea- spoon- 
ful of  cloves,  half  a  nutmeg,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda. 

TURBAN-CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  milk,  two  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  batter.  Bake  in  cups  fifteen  minutes.  Nice  for 
lunch  or  tea,  hot. 

ONE-EGG  CAKE. 

One  egg,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  a  half  cup  of 
sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter,  and 
one  tea-spoonful  of  yeast-powder. 

CAKE  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Three  pounds  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar,  one 
and  a  half  pound  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  pound  of  raisins, 
one  nutmeg,  one  table-spoonful  powdered  cinnamon,  two  gills 
of  wine,  and  one  half  pint  of  yeast.  Put  the  milk,  butter, 
flour,  and  yeast  together,  and  let  rise  before  adding  the  other 
ingredients. 

TEA-CAKES.— No.  i. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  table-spoonfuls 
of  butter,  two  tea-spoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  rubbed  into  the 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CAKE.  12<) 

dry  flour,  one  ten-spoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  milk; 
flour  sufficient  to  roll  into  a  soft  dough.  Flavor  with  grated 
nutmeg,  or  to  taste.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

TEA-CAKES.— No.  2. 

hree  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt 
three  cups  of  sugar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  cup  "of  but- 
termilk, and  flour  sufficient  for  rolling.  Flavor  with  cinna- 
mon or  other  extract. 

TEA-CAKES.— No.  3. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  six  ounces  of  butter  and  lard  together 
(mix  well),  half  ounce  crystals  of  ammonia  dissolved  in  half 
pint  of  water,  two  pounds  of  flour,  and  two  eggs.  Flavor 
with  grated  nutmeg. 

SOFT  TEA-CAKE. 

Five  eggs,  half  pound  of  butter,  half  pound  of  sugar,  one 
pound  of  flour,  one  wine-glassful  of  brandy,  one  nutmeg,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  soda.     To  be  dropped  in  with  a  spoon. 

FASCINATORS. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  soda,  two  cream  of  tartar,  and  flour  enough  to  stiffen  ;  roll 
very  thin.     Bake  quickly 

SUGAR-CAKES  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Three  pounds  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  pound  of  sugar,  four- 
teen ounces  of  butter,  a  small  tea-spoonful  of  soda  or  yeast- 
powder  sifted  with  the  flour,  half  pint  of  milk.  Kub  the 
the  butter,  sugar,  and  flour  together  ;  then  wet  with  the  milk 
and  roll  out  thin.     Flavor  to  suit  the  taste. 

GINGER  POUND-CAKE. 

Five  cups  of  flour,  five  eggs,  two  cups  of  butter,  two  cups 
of  sugar,  two  cups  of  molasses,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  ginger, 
9 


130  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK 

one  of  spice,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  and  one  tenspoonful  of 
soda. 

SOFT  GINGER-CAKE.— No.  i. 

Three  cups  of  flour,  one  of  sugar,  one  of  molasses,  one  of 
butter,  six  eggs,  two  table- spoonfuls  of  ginger,  one  tea-spoon- 
ful of  soda  dissolved  in  sour  milk  or  vinegar.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.     With  sauce  it  makes  a  nice  dessert. 

SOFT  GINGER-CAKE.— No.  2. 

Five  eggs,  four  cups  of  flour,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  milk,  one 
of  butter,  one  of  molasses,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  ginger,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  soda. 

.     HARD  GINGER-CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  one  of  molasses,  two  of 
flour,  five  eggs,  one  table-spoonful  of  ginger,  half  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  soda. 

GINGER-SNAPS.— No.  1. 

One  pound  of  flour  rubbed  in  one  quarter  pound  of  butter, 
three  quarters  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  one  ounce  ground 
ginger,  and  peel  of  a  lemon.  Work  the  ingredients  well  to- 
gether, and  roll  thin  and  cut  in  small  cakes.  Bake  as  tea- 
cakes. 

GINGER-SNAPS.— No.  2. 

One  pint  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  lard, 
half  cup  of  buttermilk,  one  table-spoonful  of  soda,  three  eggt, 
and  four  table-spoonfuls  of  ginger ;  add  flour  to  make  a  mod- 
erately stiff  dough.  Roll  the  dough  very  thin,  and  cut  with' 
a  ring  the  size  of  a  half  dollar. 

GINGER-SNAPS.— No.  3. 

Half  pound  of  butter,  half  pound  of  sugar,  two  and  a  half 
pounds  of  flour,  one  pint  of  molasses,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
soda,  and  ginger  to  taste.     Boil  the  molasses. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CAKE.  \§\ 


SUGAR  GINGER-CAKES. 

• 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
soda,  one  cup  of  cold  water,  flour  sufficient  to  roll  out  very 
thin ;  ginger  to  the  taste. 

CRULLERS.— No.   i. 

Six  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  nutmeg,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  half  tea-spoonful  soda,  and  flour 
enough  to  roll.     Fry  in  hot  lard. 

CRULLERS.— No.  2. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  eight  eggs,  half  ounce  crystals  of  car- 
bonate of  ammonia  dissolved  in  half  pint  of  water,  and  two 
and  a  quarter  pounds  of  flour.  Flavor  with  lemon.  Cut 
crullers  in  shapes  to  suit  the  fancy.  Have  the  lard  so  hot 
that  it  will  cease  to  bubble  ;  then  fry  the  crullers  a  light 
brown. 

CRULLERS.— No.  3. 

Four  eggs,  one  and  a  half  quarts  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk, 
two  cups  of  sugar,  a  table-spoonful  of  butter,  one  nutmeg 
and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  yeast-powder. .  Have  the  lard  boil- 
ing hot  to  fry  them. 

CRULLERS.— No.  4. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  one 
and  a  half  nutmeg,  two  cups  of  milk,  two  tea-spoonfuls  cream 
of  tartar  and  one  of  soda;  flour  to  roll. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  pint  of  yeast,  one  pint  of  water,  two  ounces  of  butter 
a  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  six  ounces  of  sugar;  flavor  to  taste; 
use  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.     Let  this  dough 
rise;  roll  out  the  doughnuts  and  permit  to  rise  again;  then 
fry. 


132  GULF  GITY  COOK-BOOK. 

SWEET  WAFERS.— No.   i. 

One  egg,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  table-spoonful 
of  butter,  four  heaping  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  made  into 
batter  and  dropped  into  the  irons.  If  the  butter  does  not  fur- 
nish salt  enough,  add  a  little. 

SWEET  WAFERS.— No.  2. 

Three  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
one  cup  of  rich  cream,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

SWEET  WAFERS.— No.  3. 

Four  eggs,  three  tea-cupfuls  of  flour,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
and  one  cup  of  butter. 

CHOCOLATE  MACAROONS. 

Scrape  fine  half  a  pound  of  Baker's  chocolate.  Beat  stiff 
the  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  stir  into  the  eggs  one  pound  of 
powdered  sugar  and  the  scraped  chocolate,  adding  a  very 
little  flour.  Form  the  mixture  into  small,  thick  cakes,  and 
lay  them,  not  too  close,  on  a  buttered  tin,  and  bake  them  a 
few  minutes.     Sift  sugar  over  them  while  warm. 

SUGAR-KISSES. 

The  whites  of  four  eggs  whisked  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  in 
half  a  pound  of  sifted  white  sugar.  Flavor  to  taste.  When 
stiff  drop  it  on  white  paper,  the  shape  and  size  desired,  an 
inch  apart.  The  paper  should  previously  be  laid  on  a  clean 
board,  half  an  inch  thick;  and  put  them  into  a  hot  oven,  and 
halve  until  they  are  a  light  brown.  Slip  them  off  the  paper 
with  a  table-knife,  and  stick  the  broad  edges  of  every  two  of 
them  together ;  and  if  pressed  gently  they  will  adhere.  When 
finished  they  should  be  the  size  and  shape  of  an  egg. 

BOILED  ICING. 
Dissolve  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar  in  a  tea-cup  of  water,  and 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CAKE.  138 

t. 
let  it  cook  until  it  begins  to  rope.  Try  it  frequently  by  dip- 
ping in  a  spoon.  Have  ready  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten 
until  they  begin  to  froth;  then  pour  the  boiling  sugar  upon 
the  eggs — pour  slowly,  beating  constantly  until  perfectly 
white.  Flavor  with  rose-water,  or  to  taste.  Add  a  little 
citric  acid  to  whiten  it.  If  the  icing  is  too  thin,  put  the  bowl 
containing  it  in  a  large  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  place  it 
upon  the  stove  and  let  boil  until  perfectly  thick. 

ICING. 

Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  .  Stir  in  one 
pound  of  pulverized  white  sugar;  then  put  on  the  stove  in  a 
fiat  earthen  dish,  and  cook  until  heated  through,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Spread  on  your  cake  while  the  icing  is  hot,  keep- 
ing the  knife  hot  by  dipping  in  hot  water,  which  will  make 
it  perfectly  smooth,  having  no  ridges. 

COLD  ICING.— No    i. 

Whites  of  three  eggs;  when  partially  beaten  stir  in  one 
pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  juice  of  one  lemon;  then  beat 
till  white  and  thick.  Before  icing  tops  of  ca^kes  rub  them 
slightly  with  flour.  Spread  on  the  icing  with  a  knife,  dipping 
constantly  in  cold  water  to  make  the  icing  smooth. 

COLD  ICING —No.  2. 

Four  eggs,  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  very  little 
acetic  acid. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

Beat  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  when  partly  beaten  add 
gradually  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  one  full  cup  of 
grated  chocolate.  This  is  nice  to  spread  between  layer-cakes 
instead  of  jelly,  using  cup-cake  recipe  for  the  cake. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM. 
Mix  one  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  and 


-134  G  ULF  CIT  Y  co  OK-B  O  OK. 

a  half  of  milk,  and  one  egg  together.  Boil  till  thick  as  cus- 
tard, and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Spread  between  the  cakes,  as 
in  cream-cakes. 


riES.  135 


PIES. 

GENERAL  RULES  FOR  PASTRY. 

Pastry  should  be  made  on  a  cold,  smooth  substance,  such 
as  marble,  mixing  with  a  knife.  It  should  be  made  quickly; 
much  handling  makes  it  heavy.  Great  nicety  is  required  in 
wetting  the  paste,  too  little  moisture  rendering  it  dry  and 
crumbly,  while  too  much  makes  it  tough  and  heavy.  Keserve 
half  of  the  butter  and  a  fourth  of  the  flour  to  be  used  in  roil- 
ing out  the  paste.  .Roll  it  out  lightly,  dredge  with  flour,  and 
spread  with  butter;  fold,  and  roll  again,  repeating  the  same 
three  or  four  times,  always  rolling  fast  and  pressing  on  light- 
ly. When  you  see  the  sui-face  of  the  paste  covered  with 
blisters,  you  may  be  sure  that  it  is  a  success;  that  is,  if  it  is 
baked  properly,  for  the  quality  of  the  paste  depends  much 
on  the  baking.  The  oven  should  be  well  and  evenly  heated 
before  baking,  and  not  allowed  to  cool. 

PUFF-PASTE.— No.  i. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  egg;  mix  the 
flour  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  make  a  dough 
with  cold  water  and  the  egg;  divide  the  remainder  of  the 
butter  into  six  equal  parts;  roll  the  paste,  and  spread  on  one 
part  of  the  butter,  dredging  it  with  flour;  repeat  until  all 
the  butter  is  rolled  in.  Great  care  is  necessary  to  prevent 
the  butter  from  bursting  through.     Handle  as  little  as  pos- 


136  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

sibie.     It  is  improved  by  standing  awhile  on  ice  before  bak- 
ing. 

PUFF-PASTE.— No.  2. 

One  pound  of  flour,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  butter;  rub 
into  the  flour  two  ounces  of  butter;  then  make  a  dough  with 
cold  water;  then  proceed  to  roll  in  butter  and  flour  according 
to  the  general  directions  given  above. 

PASTRY. 

One  quart  of  flour,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  lard ;  make  a  dough  of  the  flour  and  lai'd, 
using  as  little  water  as  possible;  roll  it  out  lightly;  dredge 
with  flour;  spread  with  butter  in  bits;  fold  and  roll  again; 
repeat  until  the  butter  is  all  used. 

PLAIN  PASTRY. 

Three  cups  01  flour,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  lard,  one 
cup  of  cold  water.  Mix  with  a  knife;  roll  from  you.  This 
is  enough  for  two  pies,  with  crusts  top  and  bottom. 

PLAIN  PIE-CRUST. 

Nine  ounces  of  lard,  one  pound  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Eub  the  lard  and  flour  well  together;  add  water  sufficient  to 
make  a  dough,  and  roll  out  into  thin  sheets.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

PASTRY  FOR  MEAT-PIES. 

One  quart  of  flour,  half  pound  of  lard.  Dissolve  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  in  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  and  mix  with  a  knife, 
stirring  as  little  as  possible. 

POTATO  PASTE. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  mashed  potatoes  and  sifted  flour ; 
wet  with  sour  milk,  into  which  enough  soda  has  been  stirred 
to  sweeten  it.  A  little  salt  and  butter  may  be  added.  Eoll 
out  thin.     This  is  nice  for  apple-dumplings  or  pot-pies. 


pies.  137 

BOILED  APPLE-DUMPLINGS. 

Pare  and  core  ten  or  twelve  apples ;  cover  eacu  apple  sep- 
arately with  potato-paste;  tie  up  in  thin  cloths.  Boil  until 
tender. 

EXCELLENT  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Mix  well  together  one  egg,  one  pint  of  buttermilk,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Into  well-greased  cups  drop  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  into 
each  cup  an  apple,  quartered  and  cored  and  put  together 
again  ;  pour  the  batter  over  each  apple,  and  set  the  cups  in  a 
steamer  over  boiling  warm,  and  steam  them  till  done.  Eat 
them  with  sauce. 

BAKED  APPLE-DUMPLINGS. 

Pare,  quarter,  and  core  eight  or  ten  apples  ;  roll  out  pieces 
of  paste  the  size  of  a  common  saucer;  place  an  apple  upon 
each  piece,  and  close  the  edges  of  the  paste  around  the  fruit; 
put  the  dumplings  in  a  large  dish ;  pour  over  them  a  sauce 
made  of  one  cup  of  butter  and  three  cups  of  sugar  well  cream- 
ed together;  flavor  with  nutmeg;  bake  one  hour.  Peach- 
dumplings  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

POTATO  FRITTERS 

Boil  two  large  potatoes ;  mash  them  fine;  beat  four  ye-lks 
and  three  whites  of  eggs,  and  add  to  the  above  ;  one  large 
spoonful  of  cream,  another  of  sweet  wine,  the  juice  of  one 
lemon,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Beat  this  batter  for  half  an 
hour  at  least.  Put  a  good  quantity  of  fresh  lard  in  a  stew- 
pan,  and  drop  a  spoonful  of  the  batter  at  a  time  into  it,  and 
fry  a  light  brown.     Serve  with  sauce. 

ALTONA  FRITTERS. 

Make  a  batter  of  eight  eggs,  half  pint  of  milk,  six  large 
spoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Into  this 
batter  put  half  a  dozen  apples  pared,  cored,  and  cut  in  quar- 


138  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

tors ;  let  each  piece  of  apple  be  well  covered  with  the  batter. 
Then  put  each  piece  into  boiling  lard,  and  fry  a  light  brown. 
Serve  with  sauce. 

'     SLICED  SWEET-POTATO  PIE. 

Parboil  and  slice  t>vo  medium-sized  potatoes;  put  them 
into  a  deep  pie-plate  that  has  been  previously  lined  with 
puff-paste;  pour  over  the  potatoes  a  sauce  made  of  one  cup 
ot  sugar,  half  cup  of  butter,  and  one  cup  of  boiling  water; 
riuvor  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  cinnamon,  tea-spoonful  of  cloves 
and  allspice  mixed,  and  the  juice  and  grated  rinds  of  two 
lemons;  cover  with  paste.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

SWEET-POTATO  PIE. 

One  pound  of  potatoes  boiled  and  rubbed  smooth,  half 
pound  of  sugar,  a  small  cup  of  cream,  one  fourth  pound  of 
butter,  four  eggs;  nutmeg  and  lemon  to  suit  the  taste;  bake 
in  a  crust.     This  quantity  will  make  two  large  pies. 

IRISH-POTATO  PIE. 

Two  cupfuls  of  boiled  potatoes  nicely  strained  through  a 
colander,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  of  milk,  two  of  sugar,  six 
eggs;  flavor  with  wine  and  nutmeg.  Bake  on  pastry,  or  in 
a  dish  like  a  pudding. 

A  DELICIOUS  APPLE-PIE. 

Six  apples  of  medium  size,  a  tumblerful  of  crushed  sugar, 
three  table-spoonfuls  of  butter  or  two  tumblerfuls  of  rich 
cream,  six  eggs,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  ;  peel 
the  apples,  and  grate  them ;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar  to- 
gether; beat  the  whites  and  yelks  of  the  eggs  separately; 
mix  as  for  cake.     Bake  in  paste. 

APPLE-PIE. 

Peel,  core,  and  stew  the  apples  until  transparent ;  pass 
through  a  sieve;  sweeten  to  taste;  add  one  cup  of  cream;  fla 


pies.  139 

vor  with  lemon  ;  bake  in  puff-paste ;  have  ready  the  whites  of 
lour  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  six  table-spoonfuls  of 
sugar ;  flavor  with  lemon ;  spread  over  the  pies,  return  to  the 
oven,  and  brown  lightly. 

FRUIT-PIES  IN  VARIETY. 

Prepare  and  stew  your  fruit;  sweeten  to  taste.  They 
need  no  flavoring.  Bake  between  thin  crusts.  Plums  re- 
quire more  sugar  than  any  other  fruit.     Serve  with  cream. 

RHUBARB-PIE. 

Put  the  rhubarb  in  deep  plates  lined  with  pie-crust,  with  a 
thick  layer  of  sugar  to  each  layer  of  rhubarb.  A  little 
grated  lemon-peel  may  be  added.  Place  over  the  top  a  thin 
crust;  press  tight  around  the  edge  of  the  plate.  Bake  about 
an  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Phubarb-pie  must  not  be  baked 
quick. 

DRIED-FRUIT    PIE. 

Beat  six  eggs  and  six  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar  together; 
add  one  cup  of  milk  and  one  table-spoonful  of  butter;  have 
a  cup  of  dried  fruit,  peaches  or  apples,  stewed  until  very  soft, 
and  rubbed  through  a  sifter;  sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  to 
the  other  ingredients;  flavor  with  lemon.     Bake  in  paste. 

DRIED-APPLE  PIE. 

Soak  the  apples  over  night  in  warm  water;  stew  in  cider 
or  water  until  tender.  When  cool,  sweeten  and  flavor  with 
the  juice  and  grated  peel  of  one  lemon  to  every  two  pieces; 
add  a  table-spoonful  of  butter. 

COCOA-NUT  PIE.— No.  i. 

The  well-beaten  whites  of  six  eggs;  cream  one  fourth  of  a 
pound  of  butter  with  six  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar;  add  one 
half  pound    of  grated  cocoa-nut;  stir  in  the  whites  of  the 


140  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

eggs  ;  flavor  with  a  wine-glass  of  wine  and  a  little  rose-water. 
Bake  in  paste. 

COCOA-NUT  PIE— No.  2. 

One  cocoa-nut,  six  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  two  ounces 
of  flour,  one  ounce  of  butter ;  beat  the  eggs  well ;  add  the 
sugar,  flour,  and  butter;  beat  all  very  light,  and  then  add  the 
grated  cocoa-nut;  flavor  with  lemon;  fill  the  pastry;  dubt 
powdered  sugar  on  the  top  of  the  custard,  and  bake. 

COCOA-NUT  CUSTARD. 

Eight  eggs,  one  half  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar, 
one  large  cocoa-nut  and  the  milk  of  it;  cream  the  butter  and 
sugar  together;  stir  in  the  other  ingredients;  flavor  with 
lemon.     Bake  in  paste. 

ALMOND-PIE. 

One  half  pound  of  butter,  one  half  pound  of  sugar  beaten 
to  a  cream,  six  eggs  beaten  very  light,  a  little  rose-water,  one 
half  pound  of  blanched  almonds  pounded  fine,  with  rose- 
water  or  brandy  to  prevent  oiling.  Mix  all  well,  and  bake 
in  puff-paste. 

LEMON-PIE.— (Excellent.) 

The  yelks  of  five  eggs  and  the  white  of  one;  stir  together 
with  one  half  pound  of  sugar,  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter, the  grated  rind  of  three  lemons  and  the  juice  of  two, 
one  table-spoonful  of  sifted  flour  mixed  with  a  little  water. 
Bake  on  paste  in  tin  phtes  before  putting  in  the  mixture; 
bake  the  paste  until  it  turns  white;  pour  in  the  custard  and 
bake  slowly.  Use  the  four  remaining  whites  for  a  marangue  ; 
flavor  with  the  juice  of  one  lemon;  put  on  top  of  pie  when 
done,  return  to  the  oven,  and  brown  lightly.  Orange-pie 
may  be  made  in  the  same  way,  using  oranges  instead  of 
lemons.  v 


rms.  141 

LEMON  CREAM  PIE. 

The  jui.ce  and  grated  peel  of  two  lemons,  f  >ur  eggs,  one 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar  ;  beat  all 
well  together ;  place  on  the  tire,  and  cook  until  it  becomes  the 
consistency  of  custard.     Bake  with  under  crust. 

LEMON-PIE. 

The  yelks  of  six  eggs,  four  tea-cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  two  tea-cupfuls  of  milk,  the  juice  and  grat- 
ed rinds  of  four  lemons,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  corn-starch 
or  arrow-root;  stir  well  together;  bake  on  paste.  When 
done,  have  ready  the  six  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  with 
eight  table-spoonfuls  of  pounded  sugar;  flavor  with  lemon, 
spread  over  the  pies,  return  to  the  oven,  and  brown  lightly. 

LEMON  AND  POTATO  PIE. 

Three  sweet-potatoes  of  medium  size ;  boil  well  and  rub 
through  a  sifter;  one  pint  of  rich  milk,  one  quarter  pound 
of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  three  lemons  and 
thegrated  rind  of  one,  the  yelks  of  six  eggs  beaten  well ;  mix  all 
well  together,  and  bake  in  puff-paste.  Use  the  whites  for  a 
marangue,  and  spread  over  the  pies  after  they  are  cooked  ; 
return  them  to  the  oven  and  brown. 

ORANGE-PIE. 

One  half  pound  of  butter  and  half  a  pound  of  sugar  beat- 
en to  cream,  four  eggs,  whites  and  yelks  beaten  separately ; 
grate  the  rind  of  a  sweet  orange,  and  scrape  the  pulp  from 
the  inner  skin,  and  stir  with  the  butter,  sugar,  and  eggs. 
Bake  in  puff  paste. 

SOUR-ORANGE  PIE. 

Three  eggs,  the  whites  and  yelks  beaten  separately,  half  a 
pint  of  boiling  water,  one  table-spoonful  of  corn-starch  wet 
and  cooked  liked  starch,  three  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  ta- 


142  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

ble-spoonful  of  butter,  the   juice  of  two  or  three  oranges. 
Bake  in  an  open  shell. 

PUMPKIN-PIE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  stewed  pumpkin,  two  cups 
of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs;  flavor  with  ginger,  nutmeg,  and 
lemon-peel.     Bake  in  an  open  shell. 

MOLASSES-PIE. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  half  cup  of  mi.k, 
three  eggs,  a  table-spoonful  of  butter;  flavor  with  ginger, 
orange,  or  lemon.     Bake  on  paste. 

TRANSPARENT  PIE.— No.  i. 

One  dozen  eggs,  whites  and  yelks  beaten  separately,  one 
pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter.  Mix  the  ingredients 
nicely,  and  place  on  the  fire;  stir  gently  until  done;  bake  in 
puff-paste.  Before  putting  in  the  mixture,  bake  the  paste  un- 
til it  turns  white. 

TRANSPARENT  PIE.— No.  2. 

Beat  eight  eggs;  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan  with  a  pound 
of  powdered  sugar,  one  half  pound  of  butter,  and  a  little 
nutmeg.  Mix  well;  set  on  the  fire;  stir  constantly  until  it 
thickens;  set  aside  to  cool.  Make  a  rich  puff-paste,  line  a 
pie-dish  with  it,  and  spread  on  a  layer  of  sliced  citron  or 
preserved  ginger ;  pour  over  the  custard,  and  bake  an  hour 

in  a  moderate  oven. 
1 

MINCE-MEAT. 

Two  pounds  of  well-boiled  beef  or  tongue  chopped  fine,  to 
which  add  three  pounds  of  raisins,  three  pounds  of  currants, 
one  pound  of  citron  chopped,  the  juice  of  six  oranges  with  the 
peel  chopped  fine,  one  quart  of  preserved  cranberries,  four 
dozen  pippin  apples  chopped,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  powder- 
ed cinnamon,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  allspice,  six  nutmegs; 


PIES.  143 

mix  together  and  chop  well.  Put  in  a  sauce-pan  two  pounds 
of  butter,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  three  pints  of  cooking  brandy, 
three  pints  of  sweet  cider;  simmer  this  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes, and  pour  over  the  mince-meat  boiling  hot;  stir  thor- 
oughly, and  put  away  in  stone  jars  until  wanted.  It  is  bet- 
ter to  put  in  the  apples  fresh  as  you  use  the  mince-meat. 
Three  large  ones  to  the  pint. 

MOCK  MINCE-MEAT. 

Three  soda-crackers  rolled  fine,  one  cup  of  cold  water,  one 
half  cup  of  molasses,  half  cup  brown  sugar,  three  quarters 
of  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  half  cup  of  raisins  seeded  and 
chopped,  half  cup  of  currants,  one  egg  beaten  light,  half  ta- 
ble-spoonful of  powdered  cinnamon,  one  table  spoonful  of 
allspice  and  cloves  mixed,  one  tea-spoonful  of  black  pepper 
and  salt  mixed,  half  a  glass  of  wine  or  brandy. 


144  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


PUDDINGS. 


GENERAL   RULES. 

In  boiling  puddings,  mind  that  the  cloth  be  perfectly  clean. 
Dip  it  in  hot  water  and  dredge  well  with  flour,  by  sifting 
the  flour  over  it.  When  bagged,  tie  the  string  tight,  leaving 
sufficient  room  in  the  bag  for  expansion  by  swelling.  Flour 
and  Indian  puddings  require  muc'h  room.  Put  the  pudding 
in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  placing  an  old  plate  on  the  bottom. 
Keep  sufficient  water  in  the  pot  to  cover  the  pudding,  being 
careful  not  to  let  the  boiling  cease  one  second.  A  tea-kettle 
of  boiling  water  should  be  at  hand  to  add  as  the  water  boils 
away.  Dip  the  pudding  into  cold  water  immediately  upon 
taking  out,  which  prevents  its  adhering  to  the  cloth.  Make 
your  pudding-bag  of  thick  cloth  ;  if  it  is  thin,  it  will  admit 
the  water  and  deteriorate  the  pudding.  If  you  use  a  pud- 
ding-mold, grease  well  with  butter  from  which  the  salt  has 
been  carefully  washed. 

CONFEDERATE  PUDDfNG. 

Eub  thoroughly  into*  four  tea-cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  one 

ea-cupful  of  suet  shredded  and  chopped  fine,  one  tea-cupful 

of  raisins  seeded  and  chopped,  the  same  quantity  of  currants 

washed  and  dried  the  day  previous,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of 

cinnamon ;  stir  into  this  one  tea-cupful  of  molasses,  and  the 


PUDDINGS.  145 


same  quantity  of  milk.     Pour  into  a  pudding-mold,  and  boil 
two  hours.     Eat  hot,  with  sauce. 

BOILED  CAKE-PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  half  pound  of 
butter,  six  eggs,  one  tea-cupful  of  milk,  one  tea-spoonful 
cream  of  tartar,  half  tea-spoonful  of  soda;  sift  the  cream  of 
tartar  with  the  flour;  mix  the  soda  in  the  milk,  and  add  it 
to  the  other  ingredients  when  they  are  all  mixed  together. 
It  is  good  with  sliced  citron,  or  raisins  and  currants.  If  plain, 
boil  two  hours;  if  with  fruit,  three  hours.  Serve  with  wine- 
sauce. 

MINISTER'S  PUDDING. 

Three  eggs,  an  equal  weight  of  sugar  and  butter,  and  the 
weight  of  two  eggs  in  flour  ;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar  well 
together;  beat  the  eggs,  and  mix  with  the  butter  and  sugar, 
beating  the  whole  to  a  stiff  froth;  then  add  the  flour  by  de- 
grees, and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Pour  in  a  mold,  and 
boil  gently  for  an  hour.     To  be  eaten  with  sauce. 

BOILED  BATTER-PUDDING.— No.  i. 

Nine  eggs  beaten  until  very  light;  then  sift  in  a  pint  of 
flour ;  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt ;  lastly,  add  a  quart  of  milk. 
Pour  in  a  pudding-mold,  and  boil  two  hours.  Eat  with  rich 
wine-sauce. 

BOILED  BATTER-PUDDING.— No.  2. 

Eight  eggs,  eight  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  one  quart  of 
milk.     Boil  one  hour,  and  serve  with  sauce. 

ENGLISH  PLUM-PUDDING. 

Eight  eggs,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  raisins,  one  pound  of 
currants,  one  pound  of  brown   sugar,  one  pound  of  bread- 
crumbs, one  pound  of  suet  chopped  fine,  half  pound  of  citron, 
10 


146  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

or  any  candied  fruit,  quarter  pound  blanched  almonds,  one 
nutmeg  grated,  table-spoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon,  tea- 
spoonful  of  powdered  cloves,  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  mace, 
the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  half  pint  of  brandy,  wine-glass 
of  wine,  wine-glass  of  rose-water.  Put  in  a  pudding-mold, 
and  boil  four  hours.  Pour  brandy  over  the  pudding,  and 
bring  to  the  table  burning.     Serve  with  sauce. 

AN  EXCELLENT  PLUM-PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  bread-crumbs,  one  pint  of  flour,  one  pound  of 
fresh  suet  chopped  very  fine,  one  pound  of  sugar,  nine  eggs, 
one  pint  of  milk,  half  pint  of  wine  and  brandy  mixed,  one 
pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  half  pound  of  cit- 
ron chopped  fine,  one  nutmeg,  one  table-spoonful  of  cinna- 
mon, one  table  spoonful  of  mixed  spice  and  cloves,  one  tea- 
cupful  of  molasses.  Dredge  the  fruit  well  with  a  portion  of 
this  flour  to  prevent  its  sinking  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 
Boil  five  hours  according  to  the  general  directions.  Serve 
with  plum-pudding  sauce. 

PLUM-PUDDING. 

One  loaf  of  baker's  bread  sliced,  buttered,  .and  cut  into 
pieces  one  inch  square ;  put  a  layer  of  bread  in  the  pudding- 
mold,  and  then  a  layer  composed  of  raisins,  citron,  cloves, 
cinnamon,  and  nutmeg;  then  another  layer  of  bread,  then 
the  fruit  and  spices,  and  so  on  until  the  mold  is  full.  Then 
make  a  custard  of  five  eggs,  one  quart  of  milk,  and  a  cup 
and  a  half  of  sugar;  pour  the  custard  over  the  pudding,  and 
boil  six  hours.     Serve  with  sauce. 

STEAM-PUDDING. 

-One  tea-cupful  of  raisins  stoned  and  cut  fine,  one  of  beef- 
suet,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  one  cup 
of  milk,  four  cups  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt;  cover  close;  keep 
over  steamer  for  three  hours.     Serve  with  wine-sauce. 


PUDDINGS.  147 


REBEL  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  ground  cloves,  the  same  of  cinna- 
namon,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  allspice,  small  tea-spoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  vinegar,  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Boil  four  hours. 

SPONGE-CAKE  PUDDING. 

Butter  a  mold  well,  and  ornament  it  with  dried  cherries  or 
raisins;  then  fill  three  fourths  full  with  sponge-cake.  Pour 
over  this  a  custard  made  of  half  a  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs, 
half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  or  steam  for  half  an  hour.  Serve 
with  wine-sauce. 

BOILED  ALMOND-PUDDTNG. 

Blanch  one  pound  of  almonds ;  beat  them  to  a  smooth 
paste,  with  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  rose-water ;  add  one  gill  of 
wine,  one  pint  of  cream,  one  one  gill  of  milk,  one  egg,  one 
table-spoonful  of  flour.  Boil  half  an  hour.  ■  Serve  with 
sauce. 

FIG-PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  figs  peeled  and  chopped  fine,  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  suet  chopped  fine;  dredge  with  flour;  one  pound 
of  bread-crumbs,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one 
tea-cupful  of  milk  ;  mix  all  well  together;  boil  four  hours. 
Ornament  the  pudding  with  blanched  almonds,  and  serve 
with  wine  or  brandy  sauce. 

BAKED  ALMOND-PUDDING. 

Blanch  one  pound  of  almonds;  beat  them  in  a  mortar  to  a 
smooth  paste,  with  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  rose-water;  add  one 
gill  of  wine,  one  gill  of  cream  thickened  with  one  large  ta- 
ble-spoonful of  bread-crumbs,  half  pound  of  sugar,  seven 
eggs,  and  one  nutmeg.     Bake  a  light  brown. 


148  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

QUEEN'S  PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  pint  of  bread-crumbs,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  yelks  of  four  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  the 
grated  rind  of  a  lemon;  pour  in  a  pudding-dish,  and  bake. 
When  done,  spread  over  the  top  jelly  or  preserves;  then  beat 
the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  one  cup  of  sugar 
and  the  juice  of  one  lemon  ;  pour  over  the  pudding,  and 
bake  a  light  brown. 

PRINCE  ALBERT  PUDDING. 

Half  pound  of  bread-crumbs,  half  pound  of  sugar,  half 
pound  of  butter,  six  eggs  beaten  separately,  the  juice  of  one 
lemon  and  grated  rind  of  two,  one  wine-glass  of  brandy, 
four  table-spoonfuls  of  any  kind  of  preserves;  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.     Serve  with  wine-sauce. 

APPLE-PUDDING.— (Excellent.) 

Peel  and  core  eight  or  nine  apples  of  medium  size;  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  half  a  tumbler  of  water,  a  wine- 
glass of  wine,  a  heaped  table  spoonful  of  sugar,  a  little  cin- 
namon, mace,  and  lemon-peel.  Cover  the  pan,  and  stew 
slowly  until  the  apples  are  tender ;  take  them  up,  and  let 
them  get  cold.  Fill  the  bottom  of  an  earthen  dish  with  the 
apples,  and  pour  over  them  a  rich  custard  made  by  beating 
together  the  whites  and  yelks  of  six  eggs,  with  one  quart  of 
milk;  sweeten  to  taste;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve 
with  solid  or  liquid  sauce.  • 

APPLE-PUDDING. 

Pare  a>nd  chop  half  a  dozen  good  sour  apples.  Butter  a 
pudding-dish,  and  put  in  a  layer  of  gruted  bread  half  an 
inch  thick ;  add  small  bits  of  butter;  put  in  a  layer  of  chop- 
ped apples,  with  sugar  and  nutmeg,  and  repeat  until  the  dish 
is  full.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  tea-cup  of  cold  water,  and 
bake  thirty  minutes.     No  sauce. 


PUDDINGS.  149 


BIRD'S-NEST  PUDDING. 

Put  into  three  pints  of  boiling  milk  six  crackers  pounded 
fine — stir  in  carefully,  to  prevent  lumping;  add  a  pint  of 
raisins;  boil  a  few  minutes;  set  aside  to  cool,  after  which  add 
five  well-beaten  eggs,  and  sugar  to  taste;  peel  and  core  eight 
or  ten  apples,  place  them  in  regular  order  in  a  pudding-dish, 
and  pour  over  thenl  the  custard  ;  bake  a  light  brown.  Serve 
with  sauce. 

A  NICE  APPLE-PUDDING. 

Butter  a  deep  baking-dish,  and  fill  it  with  alternate  layers 
of  thin  slices  of  bread  and  butter  and  stewed  apples.  Pour 
over  this  a  custard  made  of  one  pint  of  milk  sweetened  to 
taste,  and  the  beaten  yelks  of  four  eggs.  Bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  with 
eight  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar;  flavor  with  lemon  or  nutmeg; 
spread  over  the  top  of  the  pudding,  return  to  the  oven,  and 
brown. 

TAPIOCA-PUDDING  WITH  APPLES. 

Five  table-spoonfuls  of  tapioca,  two  quarts  of  water,  one 
and  one  half  cups  of  sugar,  table-spoonful  of  butter,  twelve 
large  apples ;  soak  the  tapioca  in  the  water  several  hours  ; 
then  pare  and  core  the  apples,  and  place  them  in  a  pudding- 
dish,  with  two  lemons  sliced  ;  pour  over  the  other  ingredients, 
and  bake  until  the  apples  are  done.  Serve  with  sweetened 
cream.     A  nice  dish,  cold  for  tea,  served  in  a  glass  bowl. 

PEACH-PUDDING. 

Five  eggs  well  beaten,  five  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  five  of 
sugar,  five  of  milk,  two  and  a  half  spoonfuls  of  butter,  wine- 
glass of  brandy  or  wine*  one  soup-plate  of  peaches  chopped 
fine.     Bake,  and  serve  with  wine-sauce  or  sweetened  cream. 

SWEET-POTATO  PUDDING. 
Two  tea-cupfuls  of  grated  sweet-potatoes,  one  cup  of  but- 


150  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


ter,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  cream,  one  wine- 
glass of  wine  and  brandy  mixed,  one  wine-glass  of  rose-water ; 
nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste.     Bake  slowly. 

LEMON-PUDDING.— No.  I. 

One  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar,  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  three  lemons,  eight  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  table-spoon- 
ful of  flour.  Beat  all  well  together.  Bake  as  soon  as  pre- 
pared. 

LEMON-PUDDING.— No.  2. 

The  juice  and  grated  rinds  of  two  lemons,  five  table-spoon- 
fuls of  sugar,  one  table. spoonful  of  butter,  one  large  Irish 
potato  boiled  and  mashed,  five  eggs;  add  sufficient  milk  to 
make  a  thin  batter.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

TAPIOCA-PUDDING  WITH  COCOA-NUT. 

Soak  over  night  three  table-spoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  cold 
water ;  pour  oft'  the  water,  and  pour  over  the  tapioca  one 
quart  of  boiling  milk,  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Beat  the  yelks 
of  four  eggs  with  one  cup  of  sugar  and  three  table-spoonfuls 
of  grated  cocoa-nut;  add  to  the  boiling  milk,  and  boil  five 
minutes  longer;  pour  in  a  pudding-dish;  beat  the  whites  of 
thi'ee  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  half  a  cup  of  white  sugar; 
spread  this  over  the  top  of  the  pudding;  sprinkle  thick  with 
cocoa-nut.     Bake  a  light  brown. 

TAPIOCA-PUDDING. 

Soak  over  night  one  tea-cupful  of  tapioca  in  a  pint  of 
milk.  The  next  morning  pour  over  the  tapioca  one  pint  of 
boiling  milk,  and  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  four  well-beaten  eggs, 
a  wine-glass  of  rose-water,  one  table  spoonful  of  butter,  and 
a  little  nutmeg;  pour  in  a  pudding-dish,  and  bake  half  an 
hour.     Sago  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 


PUDDINGS.  151 


RICE-PUDDING.— No.  I. 

Boil  four  ounces  of  rice  in  a  quart  >-of  milk  until  soft;  stir 
in  four  ounces  of  butter;  take  it  from  the  fire;  add  a  pint  of 
cold  milk,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt,  and  a  grated  nutmeg-. 
When  it  is  lukewarm,  beat  four  eggs  with  eight  ounces  of 
sugar,  and  stir  it  in,  adding  eight  ounces  of  raisins.  Pour 
the  whole  into  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  and  bake  forty-five 
minutes. 

RICE-PUDDING.— No.  2. 

Boil  a  cup  of  rice  in  a  quart  of  milk  until  soft.  When  it 
is  cooled  a  little,  add  the  well  beaten  yelks  of  three  eggs,  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of 
Bait;  pour  in  a  pudding  dish,  and  bake;  beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with  eight  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar; 
flavor  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon  ;  spread  this  over  the  top  of 
the  pudding;  return  to  the  oven  and  brown. 

SPONGE-PUDDING. 

One  fourth  pound  of  flour,  one  fourth  pound  of  sugar,  one 
quart  of  sweet  milk;  boil  these  ingredients;  then  add  one 
fourth  pound  of  butter,  and  twelve  eggs  well-beaten.  Stir 
all  well  together;  pour  in  a  pudding-dish  ;  place  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water,  and  bake  one  hour. 

SOUFFLI    PUDDING. 

Boil  together  one  pint  of  milk  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
of  flour,  stirring  to  prevent  burning;  turn  out  to  cool  when 
done.  Stir  into  the  boiled  milk  ten  table-spoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar ;  then  add  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  well  beaten  ; 
half  a  wine-glass  of  sherry ;  last,  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  very  light.     Bake  in  a  deep  dish  thirty  minutes 

CHAMBLISS  PUDDING. 
Three  eggs,  one  small  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two 


152  GULF   CITY   COOK-BOOK. 

cups  of  sifted  flour ;  beat  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  with  the  su- 
gar; cream  the  flour  and  butter  together;  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  and  a  desert-spoonful  of  yeast-powder.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven.     Serve  with  liquid  sauce. 

DIXIE  PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  preserves,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
half  cup  of  flour,  five  eggs;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar  to- 
gether; add  the  flour  and  eggs  well  beaten;  lastly,  the  pre- 
serves.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven.     Serve  with  sauce. 

A  PLAIN    PUDDING. 

Six  eggs,  six  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  six  table-spoonfuls 
of  butter,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk ;  beat  well,  and 
flavor  with  nutmeg  or  lemon.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  with  wine-sauce. 

DELICIOUS  PUDDING. 

Slice  a  sponge-cake;  butter  the  slices,  and  put  in  a  pud- 
ding-dish; pour  over  this  a  rich  custard  made  of  a  pint  of 
milk,  four  eggs,  and  a  cup  of  sugar,     Bake  half  an  hour. 

CAKE-PUDDING. 

Put  a  layer  of  sponge-cake  in  a  pudding-dish,  and  then  a 
a  layer  of  raisins,  currants,  and  citron  mixed  (any  kind  of 
fruit — stewed  apples  are  very  good) ;  another  layer  of  cake, 
and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  nearly  full.  Pour  over  this  a 
custard  made  of  a  quart  of  milk  and  six  eggs;  sugar  to  taste. 
Bake  a  light  brown.     Serve  with  wine-sauce. 

INDIAN  MEAL  PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  molasses,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda,  one  large  spoonful  of  butter;  stir  in  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  boiled  meal  to  make  a  thick  batter;  flavor  with 
ginger.     Bake  a  nice  brown.     Serve  with  liquid  sauce. 


PUDDINGS.  153 


MOLASSES-PUDDING. 

Four  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  molasses,  one 
cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  milk;  mix  molasses,  eggs,  and  butter;  then  add  the 
milk  and  soda;  lastly,  the  flour.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven, 
and  serve  with  sauce. 

POOR  AUTHOR'S  PUDDING. 

Flavor  a  quart  of  new  milk  by  boiling  in  it  for  a  few  min- 
utes half  a  stick  of  well-bruised  cinnamon,  or  the  rind  of  a 
small  lemon ;  add  a  few  grains  of  salt,  and  sweeten  to  taste ; 
turn  the  whole  into  a  deep  basin.  When  it  is  quite  cold,  add 
six  well-beaten  eggs,  and  strain  into  a  puddiug-dish;  cover 
the  top  entirely  with  slices  of  bread  free  from  crust,  and  half 
an  inch  thick;  cut  so  as  to  join  neatly,  and  butter  on  both 
sides.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour.  Simple, 
and  very  good. 

BIDDLE  PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  milk,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  four  eggs ; 
pour  into  a  well-buttered  pudding-dish,  and  bake  twenty-five 
minutes.  Bring  it  directly  from  the  oven  to  the  table,  or  it 
falls.     Serve  with  sauce. 

TWO-EGG  PUDDING. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  table-spoonful  of  butter, 
one  cup  of  milk,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven,  and  serve  with  wine-sauce. 

BUTTERMILK  PUDDING. 

Three  cups  of  buttermilk,  one  and  one  half  cups  of  sugar, 
two  cups  of  flour,  half  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs,  tea-spoon- 
ful of  sugar ;  flavor  with  nutmeg.  Bake  a  nice  brown,  and 
serve  with  sauce. 


154  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  milk,  three  ounces  of  chocolate  boiled  in  the 
milk;  flavor  with  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  vanilla,  and  sweeten 
to  taste.  When  cool,  add  the  beaten  whites  of  three  and  the 
yelks  of  six  eggs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Sweeten  the 
three  remaining  whites,  beat  to  a  stiff  froth,  pile  on  the  pud 
ding,  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

POTATO-PONE 

One  quart  of  grated  sweet-potato,  one  cup  of  sugar  or  mo- 
lasses, two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter.  One  table-spoonful  of 
ginger,  one  tea'-spoonful  of  cloves  and  cinnamon  mixed,  half 
tea-cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  two  hours 
and  a  half. 

CRACKER  FRUIT-PUDDING. 

Mix  six  crackers  pounded  fine  with  one  quart  of  boiling 
milk;  add  one  table-spoonful  butter,  one  tea-cup  brown 
sugar,  six  eggs  well  beaten,  half  pound  of  raisins  and  cur- 
rants each.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  wine- 
sauce. 

MACAROON-PUDDING. 

Butter  a  deep  pudding-dish,  and  it  with  alternate  layers  of 
macaroons  and  preserves;  pour  over  this  white  wine  until 
the  whole  is  perfectly  saturated ;  then  add  a  rich  custard 
made  of  a  pint  of  milk  sweetened  to  taste,  and  the  well- 
beaten  yelks  of  four  eggs.  Bake  a  rich  brown.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  a  cup  of  white  sugar; 
spread  this  over  the  top  of  the  pudding,  and  brown. 

SNOW  PUDDING.— No.  i 
TaKe  a  box  of  gelatine;  pour  on  it  a  pint  of  cold  water. 
When   soft,  add  a  quart  of  boiling  water,   the  juice  of  four 
lemons,  and  half  a  pound  of  sugar;  strain  and  put  aside  to 


PUDDINGS.  155 


cool  ;  when  it  begins  to  congeal,  beat  in  the  whites  of  six 
eggs  whipj)ed  to  a  stiff  froth.  It  must  be  beaten  until  very 
Light,  and  well  mixed.  Pour  into  a  mold,  and  set  aside  to 
congeal.     Serve  with  syllabub. 

SNOW  PUDDING.— No.  2. 

One  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  one  pint  of  cold  water; 
then  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  When  entirely  dissolved, 
add  a  pint  of  good  wine,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  nutmeg, 
and  the  juice  of  one  lemon  ;  let  come  to  a  boil;  then  strain. 
Beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  and  mix  with  the 
jelly  after  it  is  partly  congealed.  Serve  with  a  rich  boiled 
custard. 

JELLIED  APPLES. 

One  pound  of  apples  peeled  and  cored,  one  pound  of  sugar, 
and  a  pint  of  water;  make  a  sirup  of  the  sugar  and  water, 
and  simmer  the  apples  in  it  until  the3T  can  be  pierced  with  a 
straw.  Then  take  out  the  fruit  in  a  glass  bowl,  and  add  half 
an  ounce  of  gelatine  to  the  sirup,  and  boil  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes. When  the  sirup  is  nearly  cold,  pour  it  over  the  apples, 
and  let  it  congeal.     Serve  with  syllabub. 


156  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


SWEET  OR  PUDDING  SAUCES. 


WINE-SAUCE. 

Two  ounces  of  butter,  two  tea-spoonfuls  ot  flour,  half  pint 
of  boiling  water,  one  gill  of  wine,  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sugar,  and  half  a  nutmeg.  Mix  the  flour  and  butter,  pour  in 
the  boiling  water,  let  it  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add 
sugar  and  wine. 

BOILED  SAUCE. 

Dissolve  three  cups  of  loaf-sugar  in  two  cups  of  water,  and 
boil  to  a  thick  sirup.  Flavor  with  ground  cinnamon  and 
grated  nutmeg. 

HARD  SAUCE. 

Stir  to  a  cream  one  cup  of  butter  and  two  of  sugar ;  add  a 
wine-glass  of  wine  or  brandy,  one  tea-spoonful  of  essence  of 
lemon. 

CREAM-SAUCE/ 

Kub  together,  till  very  light,  half  a  pound  of  butter  and 
the  same  quantity  of  sugar;  add  a  well-beaten  yelk  of  an  egg 
and  half  of  a  goblet  of  wine.  Warm  through,  stirring  con- 
stantly.    Flavor  with  nutmeg. 

MILK-SAUCE. 

In  one  cup  of  boiling  milk  dissolve  two  cups  of  loaf-sugar; 
add  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one  wine-glassful  of 
brandy,  one  wine-glassful  of  wine,  and  half  a  grated  nutmeg. 


SWEET  OR  PUDDING    SAUCES.  157 

PUDDING-SAUCE.— No.  i. 

Beat  to  a  cream  oue  cup  of  butter,  and  two  of  sugar ;  place 
over  the  fire  and  stir  constantly  until  dissolved;  flavor  with 
extract  of  lemon  or  wine.  Pour  in  the  sauce  on  a  half  tea- 
cup of  any  tart  jelly;  stirring  thoroughly. 

PUDDING-SAUCE.— No.  2. 

Beat  together  four  eggs  and  two  cups  of  sugar ;  add  one 
pint  of  wine,  lemon  and  cinnamon  to  taste.  Heat  thorough- 
ly, but  do  not  let  boil. 

PLUM-PUDDING  SAUCE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  yelks  of  two  eggs, 
and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter.  Beat  all  well  together, 
and  add  one  wine-glassful  of  wine  and  one  of  brandy.  Pour 
on  all  two  tea-cupfuls  of  boiling  water.  Simmer  well,  but  do 
not  boil. 

APPLE-SAUCE. 

Pare,  core,  and  quarter  the  apples,  let  them  stew  in  just 
enough  water  to  cook  them  without  burning  them;  cook  un- 
til perfectly  soft;  mash  well,  and  when  done  stir  in  the 
sugar  or  any  seasoning  you  may  like.  Lemon-peel  or  sliced 
lemon  is  a  great  advantage  where  the  apples  are  not  well 
flavored.     Nutmeg  is  always  agreeable. 

i 

SAUCE  FOR  FRUITS. 

Whisk  one  half  pint  of  cream  and  a  tea-cup  of  white  sugar ; 
flavor  with  nutmeg. 

LEMON-SAUCE. 

Beat  to  a  cream  one  cup  of  butter  and  two  of  white  sugar; 

stir  in  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.     Grate  nutmeg 

on  sauce. 

SAUCE. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  cream,  three  table-spoonfuls  of 
water.     Boil,  and  when  nearly  done  flavor  to  taste. 


I 

158  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


ICES. 


ICE-CREAM.— No.  I. 

Three  pints  of  cream,  three  pints  of  raiik,  nine  eggs,  one 
and  a  half  pounds  of  white  sugar;  flavor  to  the  taste.  Put 
the  sugar  in  the  milk,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil;  have  the 
eggs  whipped  up  lightly,  whites  and  yelks  together,  and 
pour  the  boiling  milk  over  it,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent 
curdling;  then  pour  it  into  the  pan  and  put  on  the  fire  and 
let  it  thicken.  Stir  all  the  time  from  the  bottom,  to  keep 
from  sticking  to  the  pah.  When  cold,  put  in  .two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vanilla  and  the  cream.  Freeze.  For  flavoring 
with  lemon  squeeze  the  juice  and  grate  the  rinds  of  four  large 
lemons,  and  pour  it  over  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  pow- 
dered loaf-sugar;  let  it  stand  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
then  strain  and  add  to  the  cream,  after  it  is  in  the  freezer. 

ICE-CREAM.— No.  2. 

Two  quarts  and  a  half  of  milk,  twelve  eggs  beaten  together, 
two  table- spoonfuls  of  sugar  to  each  ■  egg,  and'  one  table- 
spoonful  of  corn-starch.  Beat  sugar  and  eggs  well  together; 
pour  on  the  boiling  milk,  and  put  back  on  the  fire;  simmer 
gently  until  of  the  desired  consistency.  Flavor  when  cold, 
and  add  a  quart  of  sweetened  cream.     Freeze. 

QUEEN'S  ICE-CREAM. 

Fifteen  eggs,  three  pints  of  milk,  sugar  to  the  tase.  Use 
only  four  yelks  and  all  the  whites;  beat  very  light  and  make 
like  any  other  custard.     Do  not  use  arrow-root  or  any  thick- 


ices.  159 

ening.     Have  the  same  quantity  of  rich  cream  whipped  very 
light ;  flavor  to  taste,  and  freeze. 

ICE-CREAM  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Two  quarts  of  milk,  two  quarts  of  whipped  cream,  one 
pound  of  powdered  sugar,  one  box  of  condensed  milk,  and 
vanilla  to  the  taste.     Freeze 

CHOCOLATE  ICE-CREAM. 

Make  ice-cream  as  in  No.  2,  and  before  freezing  add  eight 
table-spoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  dissolved  in  sufficient 
milk  or  water  to  make  a  smooth  paste. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE-CREAM. 

Sweeten  and  boil  one  gallon  of  sweet  milk.  Set  it  aside  to 
cool ;  when  ready  to  freeze  stir  in  a  quart  of  cream,  whipped 
to  a  froth.  After  the  cream  begins  to  freeze,  stir  in  the  juice 
of  two  quarts  of  strawberries  that  have  been  strained  and 
sweetened. 

FROZEN.  PEACHES. 

Make  a  rich  custard,  as  for  ice-cream ;  when  cold,  put  in  a 
quart  of  ripe  fruit  that  has  been  sweetened  and  mashed  very 
fine.     Freeze.     Other  fruits  may  be  frozen  in  the  same  way. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI  ICE-CREAM. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  quart  of  cream,  yelks  of  five  eggs, 
beaten  light  with  the  sugar,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  lemon- 
juice  and  grated  peel,  one  glass  of  sherry,  and  one  half  pound 
of  crystallized  fruits  chopped.  Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  pour 
slowly  over  the  eggs  and  sugar,  beating  all  together  well. 
Eeturn  to  the  fire  and  boil  until  sufficiently  thick.  When 
cold,  beat  in  the  cream,  and  partly  freeze  before  you  stir  in 
the  fruit  and  wine.     Then  freeze  hard. 

APPLE,  QUINCE,  AND  PEAR  CREAM. 
Take  juicy  fruit  and  boil  till  very  tender ;  mash  and  rub 


160  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

through  a  sieve.     Stir  into  a  rich  custard,  with  the  addition 
of  cream  well  sweetened,  and  freeze. 

MACAROON  ICE-CREAM. 

Make  a  custard  of  one  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  and  sweet- 
en to  your  taste.  When  cool,  add  a  quart  of  cream,  sweet- 
ened and  whipped  light.  Stir  in  two  dozen  macaroons,  pow- 
dered very  fine,  and  freeze. 

COFFEE  FROZEN. 

Prepare  the  coffee  as  for  the  table ;  add  cream  and  sugar, 
making  it  sweeter  than  for  the  table.  Freeze  and  serve  in 
after  dinner  coffee-cups. 

COCOA-NUT  ICE-CREAM. 

Make  boiled  custard,  putting  six  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk. 
Just  before  freezing  grate  one  cocoa-nut  into  half  a  gallon  of 
custard.  The  milk  of  the  cocoa-nut  must  not  be  used,  nor 
cream,  as  it  will  be  too  rich. 

FROZEN  PLUM-PUDDING. 

Two  quarts  of  well-frozen  ice-cream  in  a  freezer,  two 
ounces  of  raisins  chopped,  two  ounces  of  currants,  two 
ounces  of  citron  cut  very  thin,  one  and  a  half  ounce  of 
chocolate  grated  fine,  and  one  pint  of  Madeira  wine.  Put 
these  ingredients  into  a  stew-pan,  and  set  it  on  the  fire;  let 
it  stew  slowly  half  an  hour ;  when  cold,  mix  with  the  ice- 
cream, to  which  you  may  add  one  cup  of  strawberry  pre- 
serves, one  of  peach,  and  one  of  cherries ;  then  let  it  freeze. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream,  flavored  with  vanilla  or  with 
maraschino. 

WHITE  ICE-CREAM. 

Two  quarts  of  fresh  milk,  twelve  ounces  of  sugar,  whites 
of  eight  eggs  whipped,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  arrow-root. 
Boil  all  together  until  thick  as  custard,  and  when  cold  add 
one  quart  of  whipped  cream. 


ICES.  161 

FROZEN  BUTTERMILK. 

Strain  the  buttermilk  through  a  thin  cloth,  so  as  to  remove 
all  lumps  and  particles  of  butter,  add  sugar  until  very,  very 
sweet,  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Freeze  as  you  would  ice- 
cream. 

PINE-APPLE  SHERBET,  OR  ICE. 

Take  four  pine-apples,  pare  them,  and  cut  in  thin  slices ; 
put  in  a  bowl  with  two  pounds  of  loaf-sugar ;  let  it  stand  one 
hour,  then  separate  the  slices  from  the  juice  and  pour  over 
them  three  quarts  of  boiling  water.  When  cold,  strain 
through  a  coarse  cloth,  squeeze  hard,  then  add  the  juice  and 
freeze. 

PINE-APPLE  SHERBET. 

Two  cans  of  pine-apple;  cut  off  the  dark  spots  from  the 
slices;  chop  very  fine,  and  pour  over  it  two  quarts  of  boiling 
water;  strain  into  this  the  juice;  also,  the  juice  of  four  lem- 
ons, five  tea-cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  and  just  before  freezing 
beat  in  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  which  have  been  whipped  to  a 
stiff  froth. 

FROZEN  CLARET. 

Make  a  sweet  sangaree;  flavor  with  lemon-juice  and  peel. 
Freeze. 

LEMON  SHERBET. 

Make  a  rich  lemonade  of  twelve  lemons;  straxi  through  a 
thick  cloth  and  add  the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth 
Freeze. 

ITALIAN  SNOW. 

Make  a  lemonade,  putting  in  as  much  sugar  as  the  lemon- 
ade will  dissolve;  add  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs  to  each 
quart.     Freeze. 

ORANGE  ICE. 

One  dozen  oranges,  juice  of  two  lemons,  two  quarts  of 
11 


162  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

water,  and  sugar  to  the  taste.     Rind  of  four  oranges  grated 
on  sugar.     Freeze. 

BISQUE  GLACE'.— No.  i. 

Beat  well  together  the  yelks  of  eight  eggs,  and  eight 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar.  Flavor  one  pint  of  good  milk 
with  vanilla,  and  boil  it.  Dissolve  in  a  vessel  set  in  hot 
water  one  and  a  half  ounce  of  gelatine,  and  as  soon  as  it  is 
dissolved  mix  with  the  boiling  milk;  pour  the  boiling  milk 
slowly  on  to  the  eggs  and  sugar,  stirring  all  the  time;  when 
well  mixed  pass  through  a  sieve  and  put  in  a  very  cold  place 
to  cool.  This  is  called  "apperiel,"  or  preparation.  Beat 
one  pint  of  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  when  well  beaten  add 
it  slowly  to  the  mixture  already  prepared,  which  should  be 
quite  cold.  To  freeze,  you  must  have  a  tin  mold,  either 
square  or  rectangular;  fill  this  with  little  paper  molds,  which 
must  fit  the  tin  mold  exactly  in  every  part.  Fill  the  little 
paper  cases  with  the  mixture,  and  cover  the  tin  mold  with  a 
hermetically  fitting  top.  In  the  bottom  of  a  box  made  for 
the  purpose,  put  about  eight  inches  of  pounded  ice  and  coarse 
salt  in  alternate  layers;  in  this  place  your  tin  mold  of  Bisque 
Glace' and  another  eight  inches  of  ice  and  salt;  cover  the 
whole  with  a  thick,  heavy  cloth,  and  let  it  stand  six  or  eight 
hours.  The  box  containing  the  ice  and  salt  should  have  a 
small  hole,  to  allow  the  escape  of  the  water  from  the  melted 
ice.  When  the  mold  is  taken  from  the  ice,  wipe  well  before 
opening,  to  prevent  any  salt-water  getting  in.  It  is  then 
ready  to  serve. 

BISQUE  GLACE'.— No.  2. 

Take  some  pieces  of  broken  sugar,  and  rub  off  the  rind  of 
four  lemons;  then  pulverize  the  sugar  and  mix  with  half  a 
pound  of  pulverized  loaf-sugar,  moistened  with  the  juice  of 
the  lemons.  Beat  six  eggs  very  light;  stir  them  gradually 
into  a  quart  of  cream,  in  turn  with  the  sugar  and  lemons. 


ices.  ,    163 

Have  ready  some  stale  sponge-cake,  grated  very  fine;  stir 
into  the  mixture  until  it  is  a  thick  batter,  which  must  bo 
beaten  until  perfectly  free  from  lumps.  Put  into  a  porcelain 
kettle,  and  let  it  boil  up  once,  stirring  it  nearly  all  the  time ; 
then  freeze  as  ice-cream. 

CARAMEL  ICE-CREAM.— No.   i. 

One  gallon  of  sweet  cream,  four  tea- cups  of  powdered  su- 
gar, and  five  table-spoonfuls  of  caramels.  Caramels. — Put  in 
a  stew-pan  one  t'ea-cup  of  nice  brown  sugar,  and  half  a  cup 
of  water.     Stew  over  a  hot  fire  till  it  burns  a  little. 

CARAMEL  ICE-CREAM.— No.  2. 

Make  a  rich  custard  of  one  pint  of  milk  and  five  or  six 
eggs.  Put  two  pints  of  brown  sugar  in  a  skillet,  and  stir 
constantly  over  a  brisk  fire  until  it  is  dissolved;  do  not  let  it 
burn.  Stir  into  the  custard  while  both  are  hot.  When  cold 
pour  it  into  three  quarts  of  cream  well  beaten.     Freeze 


CREAMS,  JELLIES,  &c. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE.— No.  i. 

Soak  in  a  pint  of  fresh  milk  one  box  of  Cox's  refined  gela- 
tine. Make  a  boiled  custard  of  one  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs, 
and  one  fourth  pound  of  powdered  sugar.  Put  the  gelatine 
that  is  soaked  in  the  milk  on  the  fire,  stirring  constantly  un- 
til it  is  dissolved.  After  it  gets  boiling  hot  strain  into  a 
large  bowl.  The  custard  may  be  strained  into  this  as  soon 
as  it  is  made.  Stand  in  a  cool  place,  and  have  two  pints  of 
pure  cream,  with  sugar  enough  to  sweeten,  whipped  to  a  stiff 
froth;  add  this  just  before  it  congeals;  flavor  according  to 
taste  with  vanilla  or  other  extract.  The  whites  of  four  or 
five  eggs  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stirred  very  hard  and 


164  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

rapidly  into  the  Charlotte,  after  the  cream  has  been  put  in, 
makes  it  very  light  and  delicate.  Have  the  mold  lined  with 
lady-fingers,  and  pour  the  Charlotte  Kusse  in  just  as  it  begins 
to  congeal.  Do  not  let  the  cake  project  above  the  Charlotte, 
as  it  would  prevent  its  standing  nicely  when  turned  out.  If 
the  cakes  should  be  too  long  cut  them  off  evenly,  and  push 
the  little  ends  into  the  surface.  Unless  the  weather  is  cold, 
the  mold  should  be  placed  on  ice.  In  a  few  hours  it  will  be 
ready  to  turn  out  on  the  stand,  and  ready  to  be  served. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE.— No.  2. 

One  quart  of  thick  cream,  one  half  pint  of  milk,  one  ounce 
of  gelatine,  whites  of  seven  eggs,  yelks  of  five  eggs,  twelve 
ounces  of  sugar.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  boiling  milk; 
take  off  the  fire,  stir  in  the  yelks,  and  then  the  sugar  and  the 
flavoring.  When  the  custard  is  cold,  but  not  congealed,  stir 
in  the  cream,  which  has  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
lastly  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE— No.  3. 

Dissolve  three  fourths  box  of  Nelson's  gelatine  in  a  pint  of 
warm  milk.  Make  a  thick  custard  of  one  pint  of  milk,  one 
fourth  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  and 
yelks  of  two.  When  done,  add  the  gelatine,  stirring  all  till 
cool;  flavor  with  one  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla.  Whip  three 
pints  of  cream,  sweetened  with  powdered  sugar,  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  add  to  the  custard  and  gelatine.  Do  not  whip 
after  they  are  well  mixed,  but  pour  into  a  mold  lined  with 
lady  fingers,  or  sliced  sponge-cake. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Two    thirds    of   a   box  of    Cox's    gelatine,    dissolved    in 

a  tea-cup  of  sweet  milk.     Beat  to  a  stiff  froth  one  quart  of 

sweet   cream   sweetened,  and  flavored  with  vanilla.     After 

the  gelatine  is  dissolved  and  cool,  stir  it  into  the  cream  and 


CREAMS,  JELLIES,  &v.  \Q§ 


beat  all  well  together.     Put  into  a  mold  lined   with  lady- 
fingers. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Beat  separately  the  yelks  and  whites  of  five  eggs.  Add  to 
the  yelks  three  fourths  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  beat  well.  Soak 
in  not  quite  a  half  a  pint  of  water  a  half  box  of  gela- 
tine, and  put  it  on  to  boil.  Whip  very  light  one  quart  of 
cream.  Flavor  the  custard.  Pour  the  boiling  water  and 
gelatine  over  the  yelks  a,nd  sugar,  beating  all  the  time. 
When  cold  enough,  add  the  cream. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE  WITHOUT  CREAM. 

Haifa  box  of  gelatine  in  a  large  cup  of  water,  one  pint  of 
milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  four  eggs.  Beat  the  yelks  and 
sugar,  stir  into  the  boiling  milk  ;  let  this  cook  until  nearly 
as  thick  as  boiled  custard,  then  add  the  gelatine.  When 
nearly  cold  add  the  whites  of  the  egg?,  whipped  to  a  froth. 
Flavor  with  vanilla. 

BLANC-MANC  E. 

Boil  a  quart  of  milk  and  sweeten  to  the  taste.  Dissolve  an 
ounce  of  isinglass  or  gelatine,  and  pour  it  into  the  milk ;  at 
the  same  time  remove  the  milk  from  the  fire.  When  nearly 
cold  flavor  with  vanilla  and  pour  into  a  mold.  Set  it  on  ice 
to  harden. 

CHOCOLATE  BLANC-MANGE. 

In  one  pint  of  water  dissolve  one  ounce  of  gelatine.  Boil 
one  quart  of  milk,  four  ounces  of  grated  chocolate,  and  three 
fourths  pound  of  sugar  together  for  five  minutes;  then  add 
the  gelatine,  and  stirring  constantly  boil  five  minutes  longer. 
Flavor  with  one  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla,  and  pour  into  a 
mold.     To  be  eaten  with  sweet  cream. 

NEAPOLITAN  BLANC-MANGE. 
One  quart  of  milk,  one  ounce  of  gelatine,  three  ounces  of 


16(5  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


almonds  blanched  and  pounded  in  a  mortar  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  rose-water,  to  prevent  oiling,  and  three  fourths 
cup  of  sugar.  Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  having  previously 
soaked  the  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  it  for  an  hour.  Put  this  in 
when  the  milk  is  boiling  hot ;  add  the  pounded  almonds,  and 
stir  all  together  ten  minutes  before  putting  in  the  sugar. 
When  the  gelatine  has  dissolved,  strain  through  a  thin  mus- 
lin bag,  pressing  it  well  to  get. out  the  flavor  of  the  almonds. 
There  should  be  three  or  four  bitter  ones  among  them.  Sep- 
arate the  blanc-mange  into  four  different  portions.  Into 
one  part  beat  one  large  table-spoonful  of  chocolate  wet  with 
a  very  little  boiling  water,  and  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste,  for 
the  brown ;  beat  into  the  other  part  a  large  table- spoonful  of 
currant  jelly  for  the  pink  (or  currant  or  cranberry  juice), 
yelk  of  an  egg,  beaten  light  for  the  yellow.  Leave  the 
fourth  part  uncolored.  Return  each  part,  except  the  fourth, 
to  the  fire,  stirring  until  very  hot,  but  not  boiling.  When 
cold  and  a  little  stiff,  pour  carefully  into  a  wet  mold,  the 
white  first,  then  the  pink,  next  the  yellow,  and  the  chocolate 
last.  Set  in  a  cool  place.  Loosen,  when  firm,  by  dipping 
the  mold  in  warm  water  for  a  moment,  and  turn  out  on  your 
stand,  when  the  order  of  colors  will  be  reversed.  Put  a  lit- 
tle vanilla  with  the  chocolate. 

SYLLABUB.— No.  i. 

Have  a  quart  of  very  rich  cream ;  wash  and  wipe  four 
lemons,  and  with  a  very  sharp  knife  pare  off  the  entire  rind. 
Mix  one  half  pint  of  Madeira  wine  with  half  pint  of  white 
sugar,  powdered,  and  the  lemon-peels;  let  it  stand  to  extract 
the  flavor  of  the  lemons;  then  add  it  slowly  to  the  cream, 
and  whip  up  the  whole. 

SYLLABUB.— No.  2. 

One  quart  of  cream,  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  one  glass  of 
white  wine,  and  two  tea-cups  of  powdered  sugar.     Whip  half 


CREAMS,  JELLIES,  &>c.  167 

the  sugar  into  the  cream  ;  the  remainder  into  the  eggs.    Mix 
these,  add  the  wine,  and  flavor  to  the  taste. 

TO  WHIP  CREAM. 

Sweeten  the  cream  with  powdered  white  sugar;  flavor 
with  any  extract,  or  with  lemon  or  orange,  by  rubbing  sugar 
on  the  peel.  Set  a  bowl  near  with  a  sieve  over  it,  then  whip 
the  cream,  and  as  it  rises  to  a  froth  take  it  off  with  a  skim- 
mer, and  put  it  into  the  sieve  to  drain;  whip  also  the  cream 
which  drains  off.  If  the  cream  is  a  little  sour,  it  may  be 
sweetened  by  adding  a  small  quantity  of  soda. 

ALMOND-CREAM. 

Beat  four  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  and  a  few  bitter  ones, 
in  a  mortar,  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  water,  to  prevent  oiling, — 
both  having  been  blanched.  Put  the  paste  to  a  quart  of 
cream,  and  add  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  and  sweeten  to  the 
taste;  beat  it  to  a  froth,  which  take  off  on  the  shallow  part 
of  a  sieve.     Fill  glasses  with  some  of  the  liquor  and  froth. 

IMPERIAL  CREAM. 

Boil  a  quart  of  cream,  with  the  thin  rind  of  a  lemon,  and 
stir  it  until  nearly  cold.  Have  ready  in  a  bowl  or  dish  that 
you  are  going  to  serve  it  in,  the  juice  of  three  lemons 
strained,  with  as  much  sugar  as'  will  sweeten  the  cream, 
which  pour  into  the  dish  from  a  large  tea-pot,  holding  it 
high,  and  moving  it  about  to  mix  with  the  juice.  It  should 
be  made  at  least  six  hours  before  it  is  used;  and  a  day  is 
better. 

ITALIAN  CREAM.— No.  i. 

One  quart  of  cream,  two  boxes  of  gelatine,  one  pound  of 
sugar,  yelks  of  ten  eggs,  and  flavor  the  cream  to  the  taste — 
strawberry  flavoring  is  the  nicest.  Whip  the  -cream  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  mix  in  the  sugar 
well;  then  pour  in  the  cream.     Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  suffi- 


168  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

cient  warm  water  to  cover  it,  and  when  it  begins  to  congeal 
add  it  to  the  mixture.  Pour  all  into  the  mold,  and  when 
stiff  cover  with  grated  cocoa-nut  or  syllabub,  ornamented 
with  bright  jellies  or  preserves. 

ITALIAN  CREAM.— Nc.  2. 

Three  three  pints  of  cream  or  milk,  and  sweeten  with  sugar 
to  the  taste ;  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  add  one  paper  of  gela- 
tine. Stir  constantly  until  it  boils ;  beat  in  the  yelks  of  eight 
eggs,  and  stir  them  well  into  the  boiling  milk;  strain  it  into 
a  mold,  and  let  it  stand  on  ice  five  or  six  hours.  Serve  with 
sweetened  cream. 

BAVARIAN  CREAM.— No.  1. 

Take  half  a  box  of  gelatine ;  pour  on  it  one  pint  of  cold 
milk;  when  soft  pour  on  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  and  sweeten  to 
your  taste.  While  this  is  congealing  churn  up  a  quart  of 
rich  cream ;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  your  taste.  When  the 
gelatine  begins  to  thicken,  beat  in  the  syllabub,  which  must 
be  churned  very  thick.  You  may  add  a  little  milk  if  the 
cream  is  too  thick.  Do  not  put  in  any  of  the  thin  part  of  the 
syllabub,  as  it  will  make  it  heavy. 

BAVARIAN  CREAM.— No.  2. 

One  quart  of  thick  cream,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs  well 
beaten,  half  box  of  Cox's  sparkling  gelatine.  First,  pour  a 
small  cup  of  milk  on  the  gelatine;  let  this  stand  while  the 
cream  is  being  whipped.  Flavor  the  cream  with  wine  and 
sugar,  as  you  would  syllabub.  Put  the  pint  of  milk  on  the 
fire;  as  soon  as  it  is  hot  pour  the  soft  gelatine  into  it  and 
immediately  put  in  the  beaten  eggs.  Stir  them  rapidly  in 
until  the  custard  is  done.  Pour  out,  sweeten  and  flavor  with 
vanilla ;  when  cold,  whip  up  the  cream,  and  before  the  cus- 
tard congeals  stir  it  rapidly  in. 


CREAMS,  JELLIES,  &*c.  169 


SPANISH  CREAM. 

Three  pints  of  milk,  one  ounce  of  gelatine,  six  eggs,  twelve 
table-spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Beat  the  yelks  and  sugar  together. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  about  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  pour  the 
boiling  milk  on  the  eggs  and  sugar,  then  stir  in  the  gelatine; 
put  it  on  the  fire  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  take  off  and  place  to 
cool;  flavor  with  vanilla.  When  it  commences  to  conceal 
stir  in  the  whites,  which  have  been  beaten  to  a  froth. 

RASPBERRY   CREAM. 

Put  two  large  table-spoonfuls  of  raspberry  jam  in  a  fine 
sieve,  pour  over,  and  work  through  one  pint  of  cream,  then 
whisk  it  until  it  thickens.  Meanwhile  dissolve  half  an  ounce 
of  gelatine,  two  ounces  of  white  sugar  in  a  tea-cup  of  milk, 
and  add  gradually  to  the  cream.  When  quite  thick  turn 
into  a  mold. 

CHARLOTTE  POLONAISE. 

Boil  over  a  slow  fire  one  and  a  half  pints  of  cream.  While 
it  is  boiling  have  ready  six  yelks ;  stir  them  gradually  into 
the  boiling  cream — take  care  to  have  it  smooth  and  free  from 
lumps.  Let  this  mixture  boil  ten  minutes,  then  divide  it  by 
putting  into  two  sauce-pans.  Mix  into  one  pan  six  ounces  of 
chocolate  grated  fine,  two  ounces  of  loaf-sugar,  one  fourth 
pound  of  macaroons  broken  fine.  Put  into  the  other  pan 
one  dozen  bitter  almonds,  four  ounces  of  shelled  sweet 
almonds  blanched  and  pounded,  one  ounce  of  citron  cut 
fine,  and  four  ounces  of  pounded  sugar.  Stir  this  in  well;  let 
it  come  to  a  boil  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Cut  a  large  sponge- 
cake into  slices  half  an  inch  thick;  spread  one  slice  thickly 
with  chocolate  cream,  and  one  with  almond  cream.  Do  this 
alternately  until  all  the  cream  is  used  up.     Serve  cold. 

AMBROSIA.— No.   I. 
Eight  or  a  dozen  oranges  peeled   and  sliced,  one  cocoa-nut 


170  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

•_ , 

grated,  one  pine-apple  sliced.     Alternate  layers  of  each  with 
sugar  and  wine. 

AMBROSIA.— No.  2. 

Alternate  layers  of  sliced  oranges  and  grated  cocoa-nut, 
sugar  sprinkled  upon  each  layer  of  orange;  have  the  top  of 
cocoa-nut. 

APPLE-FLOAT. 

A  quart  of  stewed  apples  mashed  fine  and  passed  through 
a  fine  sieve,  sweetened  with  white  sugar  to  the  taste,  flavored 
with  vanilla  or  lemon — grating  the  rind  in  the  apples  if  fla- 
vored with  lemon.  Stir  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  four 
eggs.  Beat  until  very  light.  Serve  with  rich  cream ;  or  pile 
on  glass  bowl  half  filled  with  cream  or  rich  custard.  Very 
nice  mixed  with  cream  and  frozen. 

APPLE  ME'RINGUE. 

To  three  or  four  cups  of  nice  mashed  apples,  add  beaten 
yelks  of  two  eggs,  half  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  milk,  one  and  a 
half  table-spoonfuls  of  butter.  Mix  well  and  bake  a  few  min- 
utes; when  cold,  spread  evenly  on  top  a  me'ringue  made  of 
whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  sweetened. 

PORCUPINE. 

Eight  eggs  to  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk.  Take  out  four 
whites.  Boil  the  milk  and  pour  it  on  the  beaten  eggs. 
When  just  ready  to  boil  take  off  and  stir  till  cool,  or  it  will 
curdle.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and  flavor  as  you  choose.  Put  a 
loaf  of  sponge-cake  into  a  deep  dish,  soak  thoroughly  with 
wine,  and  then  stick  over  it  blanched  almonds  cut  in  pieces. 
Pour  over  the  custard  just  before  sending  to  the  table. 

APPLE-SOUFFLE'. 

Twelve  large  apples,  half  pound  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  one 
pint  of  milk,  and  one  lemon.     Pare  and  core  the  apples,  stew 


CREAMS,  JELLIES,  &c.  171 

them  with  the  lemon-peel  and  sugar  until  quite  soft ;  press 
through  a  sieve.  Make  a  custard  with  the  yelks  of  the  eggs 
and  milk.  Half  fill  a  pie-dish  with  the  apples,  and  cover 
with  the  custard.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  spread  on  the  custard.  Sift  a  table-spoonful  of 
white  sugar  over  all,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  ten 
minutes. 

CATEAN  POMMES. 

Boil  in  a  pint  of  water  one  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf-sugar, 
till  it  becomes  a  rich  sirup.  Weigh  two  pounds  of  apples 
after  they  have  been  peeled,  cored,  and  cut  small ;  boil  them 
in  the  sirup  with  the  grated  peel  and  juice  of  a  large  lemon, 
till  they  are  reduced  to  a  pulp;  then  put  it  into  a  mold.  The 
following  day  serve  it  turned  out  in  a  glass  dish,  with  a  rich 
custard. 

BOILED  CUSTARD. 

To  each  quart  of  milk  allow  five  eggs  and  five  table-spoon- 
fuls of  sugar.  Put  the  milk  on  the  fire  with  half  the  sugar ; 
whip  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  when  the  milk  is  scalding 
hot  put  it  in  the  whites  with  a  skimmer,  and  when  partially 
set  take  them  out.  Have  the  yelks  well  beaten  with  the 
balance  of  the  sugar,  and  put  in  the  milk,  stirring  constantly 
till  thick,  to  prevent  scorching.  When  sufficiently  thick 
take  up  and  flavor  to  the  taste.  Serve  in  cups  or  glasses, 
laying  the  whites  on  the  top,  and  grating  nutmeg  over  it. 

BAKED  APPLES. 

Pare,  core,  and  cut  in  thin  slices,  sprinkle  sugar  between 
each  layer  and  bake.  They  will  be  candied  and  excellent. 
Peaches  and  pears  prepared  in  the   same  way  are  very  nice. 

BAKED   PEARS. 
Peel  and  core  the  pears,  place  them  in  a  baking-dish,  and 
fill  the  middle  of  each  with  brown  sugar;  also,  strew  sugar 


172  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

over  the  pan  about  an  inch  thick.  The  juice  of  lemon  or 
orange-peel,  or  stick  of  cinnamon  inserted  in  the  center  of 
each  piece,  will  improve  the  flavor.  Add  enough  water  to 
dissolve  the  sugar.  Bake  until  quite  soft.  Serve  with  cream 
or  milk. 

TIPSY-CAKE.— No.   i. 

Cut  a  sponge-cake  through  twice,  to  make  three  pieces; 
put  layer  upon  layer  in  a  dish,  with  wine  and  jelly  between 
each  piece;  make  a  rich  custard  to  pour  over  the  whole.  The 
above  is  a  good  way  to  utilize  not  only  stale  sponge-cake,  but 
cup  or  pound  cake. 

TIPSY-CAKE.— No.  2. 

Pour  over  a  jelly-cake  as  much  white  wine  as  it  will  ab- 
sorb, and  stick  it  all  over  with  blanched  sweet  almonds.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

LEMON-JELLY 

One  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  dissolved  in  one  pint  of  cold 
water,  the  juice  and  rind  of  three  lemons  if  large,  four  if 
small,  one  and  three  fourth  pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  three  pints 
of  boiling  water,  five  wine-glasses  of  wine  (sherry,  cooking- 
wine,  or  Champagne).  When  nearly  cold,  strain  and  set 
aside  to  congeal. 

WINE-JELLY.— No.   1. 

One  package  of  gelatine,  one  quart  of  water,  three  fourths 
of  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  four  lemons,  half  pint  of  sherry 
or  good  Madeira  wine,  one  ounce  of  mixed  spice — cloves,  all- 
spice, mace,  and  cinnamon.  Put  the  gelatine,  sugar,  water, 
spices,  juice  and  peel  of  the  lemons  into  a  brass  or  porcelain- 
lined  kettle;  set  on  the  fire,  stirring  occasionally,  until  the 
gelatine  is  perfectly  dissolved.  Have  ready  the  stiffly-beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs,  with  which  you  have  mixed  a  dozen  or 
fifteen  pieces  of  charcoal,  each  piece  about  the  size  of  the  end 


CREAMS,  JELLIES,  &>c,  173 

of  your  finger;  empty  the  eggs  and  charcoal  into  the  mixture 
on  the  fire;  stir  well,  and  just  before  it  begins  to  boil  add 
the  wine.  Kemove  from  the  fire  just  as  soon  as  it  boils  up 
once;  let  it  stand  in  the  kettle  about  five  minutes,  and 
then  strain  through  a  flannel  jelly-bag  until  clear.  If  you 
wish  to  have  it  a  beautiful  amber  color,  drop  in  just  before 
taking  from  the  fire  a  few  drops  of  liquid  burned  sugar.  B}T 
using  more  or  less  of  the  burned  sugar  you  can  obtain  any 
shade  of  amber  you  wish 

WINE-JELLY.— No.  2. 

To  one  pint  of  cold  water  add  one  ounce  of  gelatine,  the 
juice  and  slices  of  two  lemons;  let  it  stand  until  the  gelatine 
softens,  and  pour  over  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  full  pint 
of  loaf-sugar ;  stir  till  thoroughly  dissolved,  and  pour  in.  a 
pint  of  wine  ;  strain  through  a  flannel-bag,  and  set  aside  to 
congeal.  In  this  way  jelly  can  be  made  with  little  time  and 
trouble. 

JELLY  AND  FRUIT. 

Line  a  charlotte  or  jelly-mold  with  various  kinds  of  fruit, 
such  as  stoned  cherries,  strawberries,  pieces  of  peaches,  etc., 
by  dipping  the  fruit  in  jelly  and  sticking  it  to  the  sides.  Ar- 
range in  any  design  wished ;  then  fill  the  mold  with  wine- 
jelly,  and  place  on  ice.  This  makes  a  beautiful  dish,  if  the 
fruit  is  arranged  with  taste. 

JELLY  OF  IRISH  MOSS. 

Half  an  ounce  of  Irish  moss,  a  pint  and  a  half  ©f  fresh 
milk;  boil  down  to  a  pint,  and  remove  any  sediment  by 
straining.  Add  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar;  lemon-juice  or 
peach-water  to  give  an  agreeable  flavor. 

CALF  OR  HOG  FOOT  JELLY. 

Have  four  feet  scalded  and  scraped ;  split  them,  and  boil 
them  in  a  gallon  of  water  until  they  have  gone  to  pieces,  and 


174  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

the  liquor  reduced  to  one  half.  Skim  off  all  grease  ;  strain 
the  liquor  through  a  jelly-bag ;  set  aside  to  cool,  when  it  will 
be  a  firm  cake  of  jelly.  To  each  quart  allow  a  pound  of  su- 
gar, a  pint  of  Madeira  wine  and  a  wine-glass  of  brandy,  three 
sticks  of  cinnamon,  juice  and  grated  peel  of  four  lemons, 
the  whites  of  four  eggs;  boil  twenty  minutes ;  do  not  stir; 
then  add  a  tea-cup  of  cold  water,  and  boil  five  minutes  long- 
er. Strain  through  a  flannel  bag;  but  do  not  squeeze  or  press 
the  bag,  as  it  will  render  the  jelly  cloudy. 

MARASCHINO  JELLY. 

Add  to  some  nice,  clear  gelatine  jelly  maraschino  enough 
to  flavor  it.  Put  the  mold  into  a  vessel,  with  ice  and  salt 
around  it;  then  put  the  mold  one  fourth  full  of  jelly;  place 
in  it  as  it  cools  a  layer  of  Malaga  grapes.  When  this  is  con- 
gealed, pour  on  some  more  jelly  which  is  cold,  but  not  con- 
gealed; then  another  layer  of  grapes;  fill  up  the  mold  in 
this  way.  Serve  when  stiff.  If  in  preparing  it  the  jelly 
stiffens  too  rapidly,  set  it  in  warm  water.  Other  kinds  of 
fruit  can  be  substituted  lor  the  grapes. 


PAESER  VES  AND  J  EL  L IES.  175 


PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES. 


In  making  preserves,  procure  firm,  ripe  fruit,  as  it  is  desir- 
able to  have  the  natural  flavor  of  the  fruit,  which  can  not  be 
obtained  from  hard,  unripe  fruit.  Use  the  best  loaf-sugar; 
but  if  not  convenient,  good  brown  sugar  will  do  by  clarify- 
ing, which  may  be  done  by  stirring  in  the  sirup  the  whites 
of  one  or  two  eggs,  carefully  taking  off  the  scum  as  it  rises, 
until  the  sirup  is  clear. 

It  is  not  well  to  expose  the  fruit  long  to  the  action  of  the 
sun,  as  it  has  a  tendency,  to  toughen  it.  Have  your  jars  well 
cleaned  by  washing  in  weak  lye,  or  soda-water.  Put  your 
preserves  in  the  jars  hot,  which  may  be  done  without  risk  by 
placing  the  jars  on  a  towel  folded  in  several  thickness  sat- 
urated with  cold  water.  Cover  the  top  with  a  paper  cut  to 
fit  inside  the  mouth  of  the  jars  ;  wet  in  brandy  or  whisky ; 
cork  tightly. 

FIG  PRESERVES. 

i 

Drop  them  in  a  weak  salaratus-water,  and  let  remain  for 
fifteen  minutes ;  wipe  them  dry,  and  to  a  pound  of  figs  allow 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  When  the  sirup  has 
well  boiled,  put  in  the  figs,  and  boil  them  untif  they  look 
clear;  take  out  the  fruit,  and  sun  it  for  two  hours;  then  re- 
turn to  the  sirup,  and  boil  a  little  while  before  taking  off. 

They  may  be  flavored  with  either  ginger,  mace,  cinnamon, 
or  lemon.  If  lemons  are  used,  do  not  put  them  in  the  boil- 
ing sirup,  as  that  will  make  them  hard.  Slice  them,  take 
out  the  seeds,  and  put  in  a  vessel  with  a  very  little  water, 


176  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK, 

and  boil  until  tender;  then  pour  the  lemon  and  the  water  in 
which  it  was  boiled  into  the  sirup.  If  lemons  can  not  be  ob- 
tained, use  the  oil  of  lemon,  which  should  be  put  in  when 
taken  from  the  fire. 

TO  PRESERVE  BLUE  FIGS. 

Peel,  and  throw  into  a  solution  of  lime-water  (one  table- 
spoonful  of  air-slacked  lime  to  half  a  bucket  of  water).  Let 
them  remain  for  nearly  an  hour;  drain  well.  To  every  pound 
of  figs  add  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar.  Slice 
lemons  very  thin  ;  take  out  the  seeds,  and  strain  in  the  pre- 
serving-kettle until  tender;  use  as  little  water  as  will  dis- 
solve the  sugar;  then  put  in  the  figs,  and  let  them  boil  until 
cooked  through.     Seal  up  in  jars  while  boiling  hot. 

FIG  MARMALADE. 

Use  ripe  figs;  place  them  in  cooking  soda-water  for  a  few 
minutes;  wipe  dry  with  a  coarse  cloth;  then  put  them  on  to 
boil,  with  just  water  enough  to  cover  them;  boil  until  soft, 
mashing  often.  When  soft,  put  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  a  pound  of  figs ;  cook  slowly ;  stir  frequently  to 
prevent  burning.  Flavor  with  oil  of  lemon,  or  anything 
preferred. 

TOMATO  PRESERVES. 

I 

The  impression  generally  prevails  that  these  preserves  are 
very  indifferent,  but,  if  properly  prepared,  they  will  rival  any 
fruit.  Take  half  a  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes;  scald  and  peel, 
and  as  they' ai*e  peeled  plunge  into  cold  water ;  cut  them  in 
halves  (across  the  tomato),  so  as  to  extract  any  seed;  throw 
again  in  cold  water,  and  when  cleansed  and  thoroughly 
washed,  weigh,  allowing  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar  to  the  same 
of  fruit.  Make  a  sirup  of  sugar  and  sufficient  water ;  when 
thick  enough,  add  the  tomatoes;  cook  slowly  until  done.  Be 
careful  when  they  are  nearly  done,  or  they  will  burn.     Fla- 


FRESER  VES  AND  JELLIES.  177 


vor  with  sliced  lemon  cut  in  the  preserves  when  about  half 
done. 

STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES. 

Stem  and  wash  the  fruit  carefully,  and  to  every  pound  of 
fruit  allow  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Put  in  a  kettle  a  layer  of 
fruit  and  a  layer  of  sugar;  let  stand  about  an  hour,  and  they 
will  make  sufficient  juice  without  adding  water.  (Do  not 
let  them  stand  too  long,  or  they  will  have  a  shrunken  ap- 
pearance.) Boil  until  done,  but  not  too  fast.  Blackberries 
may  be  preserved  in  the  same  way. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM. 

Weigh  the  fruit,  and  press  it  through  a  colander.  To 
every  pound  of  berries  add  a  little  more  than  half  a  pound 
of  sugar.  Boil  slowly  until  as  thick  as  desired,  stirring  con- 
stantly. 

APPLE  PRESERVES. 

Pare  and  slice  your  apples;  weigh  them  and  your  sugar, 
allowing  a  pound  of  crushed  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  In 
a  stone  jar  place  a  layer  of  apples,  then  a  layer  of  sugar, 
sprinkling  every  layer  with  enough  water  to  moisten  the 
sugar;  let  this  stand  all  night.  In  the  morning,  remove  the 
apples;  put  the  sirup  in  a  kettle,  adding  a  little  more  water 
— enough  to  cook  the  apples.  Clarify  the  sugar  with  the 
whites  of  two  eggs;  strain  it,  and  return  to  the  kettle;  place 
on  the  fire;  when  nearly  boing  hot,  put  in  the  apples;  give 
them  a  good  scald,  but  do  not  allow  them  to  remain  long 
enough  to  break ;  remove  from  the  sirup,  place  them  in  dishes, 
and  sun  them  until  a  little  tough  ;  return  to  the  sirup,  boil 
a  short  time,  and  sun  again;  then  return  to  the  sirup,  and 
boil  until  quite  clear  and  the  sirup  is  thick.  Flavor  with 
lemons  sliced,  or  with  ginger.     Seal  tight. 

CRAB-APPLE  PRESERVES. 

Boil  in  clear  water  until  the  core  can  be  easily  removed. 
12 


178  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

A  small  tin  tube  is  the  best  arrangement  for  taking  out  the 
cores.  Make  a  sirup,  allowing  two  pounds  of  sugar  to  one 
pound  of  fruit;  put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  until  clear;  sun  a 
short  time,  and  boil  again. 

PEAR  PRESERVES. 

To  one  pound  of  pears  put  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Peel  and  quarter  your  fruit;  then  drop  into  the  boil- 
ing sirup.  After  boiling  awhile,  take  out  and  put  in  the  sun  ; 
then  put  in  the  sirup  some  race  ginger,  or  cloves  if  liked ; 
return  the  fruit  to  the  boiling  sirup,  and  boil  until  done. 

PLUM  PRESERVES. 

Have  the  plums  nearly  ripe ;  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  fruit.  Put  the  plums  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  and 
let  it  heat  gradually  until  it  boils;  pour  off  this  water,  and 
do  not  use  it,  as  it  will  impair  the  flavor  of  the  preserves. 
Make  a  sirup  of  the  sugar  and  enough  water  to  cook  them  in. 
When  the  sirup  has  boiled  a  few  minutes  put  in  the  fruit, 
and  let  it  boil  until  done. 

QUINCE  PRESERVES. 

Pare  and  core  the  quinces,  taking  out  the  defective  parts; 
cut  in  halves  or  quarters;  place  them  in  a  preserving-kettle, 
with  enough  water  to  cover  them;  lay  a  plate  over  the  top 
to  keep  in  the  steam,  and  boil  until  tender.  Take  out  the 
fruit;  strain  the  liquor,  and  retain  it  to  make  your  sirup  of, 
allowing  a  pound  of  sugar  to  the  same  of  fruit.  The  weight 
should  be  taken  before  boiling  the  fruit.  When  the  3irup 
has  boiled  twenty  minutes,  and  been  well  skimmed,  put  in 
the  quinces,  and  boil  half  an  hour..  Take  them  up,  lay  on  a 
dish,  and  expose  to  the  sun  for  an  hour;  then  return  the  fruit 
to  the  sirup,  and  boil  until  done. 


PEESER  VES  AND  JELLIES.  179 

QUINCE  MARMALADE. 

Wash  and  quarter  the  quinces,  taking  out  the  cores,  but  do 
not  pare  ;  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  sufficient  water  to  stew 
them  in;  boil  until  soft;  run  through  a  sieve,  and  to  each 
pound  of  this  pulp  put  a  pound  of  sugar.  Eeturn  to  the 
kettle,  cook  slowly,  and  stir  constantly  until  done. 

WATER-MELON  PRESERVES. 

To  a  bucket  of  cold  water  add  two  handfuls  of  lime.  Cut 
your  rinds,  either  water-melon  or  cantaloup  ;  let  it  remain  in 
the  lime-water  twenty-four  hours,  turning  it  often  from  the 
bottom.  Take  out  of  the  lime-water,  and  soak  in  clear  water 
to  remove  the  lime,  changing  the  water  frequently.  Scald 
in  strong  alum-water,  with  grape  or  butter  bean-leaves,  keep- 
ing the  vessel  well  covered  that  the  rind  may  have  a  good 
green  color.  Let  them  boil  in  this  about  ten  minutes;  then 
drop  the  rind  in  cold  water;  boil  in  a  strong  ginger-tea, 
making  enough  to  cover  the  rind  well,  and  long  enough  to 
impart  a  flavor  of  ginger  to  the  rind.  Make  a  sirup,  using 
two  pounds  of  white  sugar  to  one  pound  of  rind,  and  water 
sufficient  to  boil  the  rind  until  perfectly  transparent..  Do 
not  put  in  the  fruit  until  the  sirup  boils;  then  cook  slowly. 
The  rind  should  be  weighed  as  soon  as  cut.  Sliced  lemon  is 
a  great  improvement;  when  not  at  hand,  the  oil  of  lemon 
may  be  used,  but  not  until  the  preserves  have  been  taken 
from  the  fire — while  hot. 

PEACHES  PRESERVED  IN  THEIR  JUICE. 

Wash,  wipe,  and  pare  with  a  silver  or  fine  steel  knife ;  halve, 
and  remove  the  pits ;  to  each  pound  of  the  fruit  use  one  half 
pound  of  the  best  loaf-sugar.  Sprinkle  a  little  sugar  in  a 
deep  earthen  bowl;  then  put  in  a  layer  of  peaches;  alternate 
with  sugar  until  all  are  closely  packed,  covering  the  top  with 
sugar,  cover  tightly,  and  set  aside  for  ten  or  twelve  hours. 
Pour  all  into  a  preserving-kettle  ;  let  them  come  to  a  boil,  and 


180  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

as  fast  as  the  pieces  swell  sufficiently  take  out  with  a  silver 
spoon  and  place  in  a  glass,  air-tight,  preserving-jar.  As  soon 
as  the  jars  are  filled,  pour  the  boiling  sirup  over  the  peaches, 
filling  the  jars  to  the  top  ;  seal  at  once, 

1  have  kept  peaches  and  other  fruit  prepared  in  this  way 
perfectly  good  three  and  four  years. 

PEACHES  PRESERVED  WHOLE. 

Take  the  large,  white  clingstones;  pare  evenly;  to  every 
pound  of  fruit  allow  a  pound  of  powdered  loaf-sugar ;  place 
them  in  large  earthen  tureens, — a  layer  of  fruit,  and  one  of 
sugar  ;  let  them  remain  over  night ;  then  boil  over  a  gradual 
fire  until  transparent;  then  pour  the  fruit  and  sirup  into  large 
dishes;  place  them  in  the  sun  until  the  sirup  is  almost  a  jelly 
and  the  fruit  well  cooked;  put  them  in  jars.  See  that  no 
bubbles  of  air  are  left  in  the  jars.  Place  a  brandy  paper  on 
the  top.     Seal  carefully. 

BRANDY  PEACHES. 

Select  ripe  peaches,  but  not  soft ;  drop  in  lye  or  soda-water 
to  remove  the  furze,  and  wipe  with  a  coarse  towel.  Make  a 
thick  sirup,  allowing  a  half  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  fruit, 
and  one  half  pint  of  water.  Put  the  peaches  in  the  sirup, 
and  boil  five  minutes.  After  taking  the  fruit  out,  if  the  sirup 
is  too  thin  add  more  sugar,  and  boil  until  a  thick  sirup  is 
made.  Put  the  peaches  in  a  jar,  and  to  a  measure  of  sirup 
put  a  measure  of  brandy,  ond  pour  over  the  fruit. 

PEACH-CHIPS. 

Take  ripe  peaches;  peel,  and  cut  from  the  seed.  Make  a 
thin  sirup;  boil  the  peaches  in  this  until  they  look  clear; 
then  lay  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain ;  roll  in  dry  brown  sugar, 
and  expose  to  the  sun  in  dishes;  change  to  dry  dishes,  and 
dip  in  sugar  again  until  entirely  dried  and  crystallized.  The 
sirup  may  be  kept  and  used  for  more  peaches. 


PEESER  VES  AND  JELLIES.  181 

PEACH-LEATHER. 

Prepare  the  peaches  as  you  would  to  eat  with  milk;  then 
strain  through  a  sieve ;  butter  panes  of  glass  and  spread  it 
out  thin  on  them,  and  put  in  the  sun.  The  second  day  turn 
it. 

PUMPKIN-CHIPS. 

Weigh  equal  quantities  of  sugar  and  pumpkin  cut  thin  or 
shaved  with  a  plane  ;  sprinkle  the  sugar  over  the  pumpkin, 
and  let  it  remain  over  night.  It  will  not  need  any  water. 
To  every  pound  add  one  orange  or  lemon  cut  into  thin  slices. 
Some  prefer  ginger  as  a  flavoring.  Boil  until  the  pumpkin 
is  perfectly  clear,  and  the  orange-peel  is  soft;  take  all  out, 
and  lay  on  a  dish  in  the  sun  for  half  an  hour ;  boil  the  sirup 
quite  thick;  then  put  the  preserves  back. 

WATER-MELON  OR  CITRON  PRESERVES. 

Pare  the  rinds,  and  soak  in  salt-water  one  night,  then  in 
clear  water  until  all  the  3ak  is  extracted ;  then  scald  in  alum- 
water,  with  grape  or  butter- bean  leaves,  and  a  lump  of  alum 
the  size  of  a  hickory-nut;  then  throw  in  cold  water;  boil  in 
clear  water;  then  boil  in  ginger-tea.  Make  a  sirup,  allowing 
one  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  water.  When  the  sirup 
boils,  put  in  the  fruit,  and  cook  until  tender  and  transparent ; 
then  take  out  the  fruit,  and  boil  the  sirup  until  thick.  The 
above  is  for  ten  pounds  of  fruit. 

CANTALOUP  PRESERVES. 

Select  sound  fruit;  pare,  and  divide  into  quarters,  and  cut 
each  quarter  into  several  pieces ;  take  the  seeds  out  carefully  ; 
weigh  the  fruit,  and  to  every  pound  allow  half  a  pound  of 
the  best  loaf-sugar.  Put  the  fruit  in  a  preserving-kettle,  and 
boil  in  water  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  quite  clear;  drain, 
and  place  them  on  a  large  dish ;  put  the  sugar  into  the  ket- 


182  'GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

tie,  and  add  water  enough  to  dampen  the  sugar;  boil  until 
quite  clear;  then  add  the  fruit,  and  boil  slowly  until  it  be- 
comes almost  transparent,  and  soft  enough  to  allow  a  straw  to 
pierce  through  without  breaking.  A  few  lemons  sliced  and 
boiled  with  the  fruit  in  the  sirup,  and  a  few  ginger-roots 
added  to  the  sirup  while  boiling,  will  improve  the  flavor. 
Put  the  fruit  in  jars,  and  pour  the  boiling  sirup  over  it. 

SOUR-ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Hasp  the  orange  on  a  vegetable  grater  to  remove  the  deep 
yellow.  Then  peel  the  oranges;  quai'ter  the  peel,  and  boil 
until  tender  enough  to  pierce  with  a  straw.  While  boiling, 
change  the  water  three  or  four  times,  using  each  time  boiling 
water.  G-et  all  the  pulp  and  juice  free  from  the  skin;  pour 
over  the  seeds  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  stand  until 
jelly-like;  pour  this  off,  and  save;  pour  more  water  on  the 
seeds  until  all  the  jelly  is  extracted.  Cut  the  peel  into  straw- 
like strips;  weigh  the  peel,  pulp,  and  jelly- water,  and  to  each 
pound  of  this  allow  a  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  all  until  jelly- 
like. 

ORANGE-PEEL  PRESERVES. 

Put  the  peel  in  salt-water  for  twenty-four  hours;  then  soak 
in  clear  water;  boil  in  weak  alum-water,  then  in  clear  water. 
Make  a  sirup  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  the  same  of  peel,  and 
boil  until  clear. 

SCOTCH-ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Take  large,  ripe  oranges,  and  weigh  them,  and  to  each 
pound  of  fruit  allow  one  pound  of  crushed  sugar.  Pare  off 
the  yellow  rind  of  half  the  oranges,  and  put  it  over  the  fire ; 
cover  tightly,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly  until  tender.  Grate 
off  the  yellow  rind  of  the  remaining  oranges;  quarter  the 
fruit,  squeeze  out  all  the  juice  and  pulp,  a'nd  remove  the  seeds 
and  skin.     To  each  pound  of  sugar  add  half  a  pint  of  cold 


PRESER  VES  AND  JELLIES.  183 

water,  and  the  white  of  one  egg  to  every  two  pounds  of  su- 
gar; let  the  sugar  stand  until  nearly  dissolved;  then  boil 
slowly,  and  skim  off  what  rises.  Pound  the  boiled  parings 
in  a  mortar,  or  chop  them  very  fine,  and  turn  into  the  sirup 
after  it  has  become  very  thick;  then  boil  ten  minutes,  stirring 
often;  put  in  the  juice,  pulp,  and  grated  rind,  and  boil  for 
half  an  hour,  or  until  transparent.  Lemons  can  be  mixed 
with  the  oranges — one  to  every  fifteen — and  a  little  more 
sugar  added  with  good  effect. 

This  recipe  makes  the  famous  Scotch  marmalade  used  so 
much  for  a  breakfast  dish.  It  is  sold  in  all  large  groceries  in 
cities,  but  can  be  made  at  home  at  much  more  reasonable 
rates.  Try  a  little  of  it  with  good  bread  and  butter  for  a 
dessert. dish,  and  you  will  not  sigh  for  pie. 

PINE-APPLE  PRESERVES. 

Pare  and  slice  the  fruit.  Make  a  sirup  of  half  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit;  when  the  sirup  boils,  put  in  the 
fruit,  and  let  it  remain  until  a  little  tender.  Fill  the  jars 
with  the  hot  fruit,  and  pour  on  the  sirup.  To  be  kept  in  air- 
tight jars.  Prepared  in  this  way,  much  of  the  flavor  of  the 
fruit  is  preserved. 

APPLE-JELLY. 

Wash  and  cut  up  the  apples,  leaving  the  cores ;  put  them 
in  a  kettle  with  enough  water  to  cover;  boil  until  tender; 
then  strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  If  the  apples  are  very 
tart,  allow  one  pound  of  the  best  white  sugar  to  a  pint  of 
sirup;  then  boil  until  it  jellies,  which  maybe  ascertained  by 
trying  in  a  cup  of  cold  water.  In  case  the  apples  are  not 
tart,  allow  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  sirup.  Two 
lemons  cut  up  and  adde  1  to  the  fruit  while  boiling  will  im- 
part a  pleasant  flavor.  In  general,  twenty  minutes  will  be 
long  enough  to  boil  after  the  sugar  is  added.  It  will  be  more 
economical,  and  the   jelly  will  be  lighter,  if  only  a  small 


184  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

quantity  is  boiled  after  the  sirup  is  mixed  with  the  sugar — 
say  a  quart  at  a  time. 

PLUM-JELLY. 

Have  your  plums  thoroughly  ripe;  put  them  in  a  kettle, 
with  two  pints  of  water  to  half  a  bushel,  three  pints  to  a 
bushel;  let  them  boil  until  done,  stirring  all  the  time.  When 
they  have  all  burst  they  are  done,  and  should  be  poured 
slowly  through  a  sieve.  After  all  the  juice  has  dripped  out, 
strain  it  through  a  piece  of  flannel.  To  every  pint  of  juice 
put  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar ;  put  it  on,  and  let  it  boil  until 
it  jellies. 

Take  the  fruit  that  is  left,  and  place  on  the  fire,  allowing  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  the  same  of  fruit,  or  a  little  more  weight  of 
sugar ;  cook  until  done.  This  will  make  very  nice  marma- 
lade. 

GRAPE-JELLY. 

Pick  and  wash  your  grapes ;  put  them  in  a  kettle,  and  to 
six  pounds  of  fruit  put  half  a  pint  of  cold  water.  Place  the 
kettle  on  the  fire,  and  steam  until  the  grapes  have  yielded 
their  juices;  then  strain,  and  to  each  pint  of  juice  add  one 
pound  of  loaf-sugar.     Cook  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

QUINCE-JELLY 

Wash  and  cut  up  the  quinces,  taking  out  the  cores;  boil  in 
clear  water  until  tender;  strain  through  a  flannel  bag,  and 
to  each  pint  of  the  liquid  allow  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar.  Boil 
until  done. 


CANDY.  185 


CANDY. 


SUGAR-CANDY.— No.  i. 

Six  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  water,  one  cup  of  vmegar, 
one  table-spoonful  of  butter.  Boil  without  stirring.  Begin 
to  pull  it  as  soon  as  it  can  be  handled,  using  only  the  fingers, 
and  not  the  hands;  pull  rapidly.  Do  not  grease  the  hands 
if  you  can  pull  it  without. 

SUGAR-CANDY.— No.  2. 

Dissolve  two  pounds  of  loaf-sugar  in  two  cups  of  water ; 
stir  in  one  tea-spoonful  cream  of  tartar,  table-spoonful  of  ex- 
tract of  vanilla,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  and  one  full 
table -spoonful  of  butter.  Do  not  stir  the  mixture  after 
it  boils,  or  it  will  sugar.  When  done,  pull  until  white,  hand- 
ling as  little  as  possible. 

HOARHOUND  CANDY. 

In  one  quart  of  water  boil  one  package  of  dried  hoarhound, 
as  obtained  from  the  druggist,  till  reduced  to  one  pint.  Strain 
this  tea  on  four  pounds  of  brown  sugar;  boil  as  sugar- candy, 
— without  stirring, — and  when  nearly  done,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Pull  very  little.  This  is  excellent  for  a 
cough. 

PEA-NUT  CANDY.— No.  1. 

To  two  pounds  of  sugar  add  one  tumbler  of  water,  one 
talbe-spoonful  of  butter ;  boil,  stirring  constantly.     Just  be- 


186  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

fore  taking  off,  stir  in  a  pint  of  parched  and  pounded  pea- 
nuts (measure  after  prepared).  Drop  with  a  spoon  upon 
buttered  plate. 

PEA-NUT  CANDY.— No.  2. 

Make  sugar  candy  as  No.  1,  leaving  out  the  vinegar.  Do 
not  stir  it.  When  done,  pour  thinly  upon  buttered  plates 
covered  with  parched  pea-nuts  from  which  the  thin  skins 
have  been  taken. 

COCOA-NUT  CANDY. 

Dissolve  two  pounds  of  loaf-sugar  in  the  milk  of  one  large 
cocoa-nut;  let  it  boil,  and  when  nearly  done  stir  in  the 
grated  cocoa-nut.  This  must  be  stirred  constantly  until 
done.     Drop  from  a  spoon  on  buttered  dishes. 

COCOA-NUT  DROPS. 

To  a  grated  cocoa-nut  add  half  the  weight  in  sugar,  and 
the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Drop  the  mixt- 
ure in  small  cakes  on  buttered  paper,  and  sift  sugar  over 
them.     Bake  them  fifteen  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

TAFFY. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  good  molasses,  half  pound 
butter ;  let  this  boil  until  nearly  or  quite  done ;  then  stir  in 
one  grated  cocoa-nut.  Grease  your  biscuit-board,  and  pour 
the  taffy  on;  then  pour  essence  of  lemon  over  it.  When  cold, 
take  a  large  knife  and  cut  in  squares. 
ALMOND-TAFFY. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  the 
grated  rind  of  a  lemon;  boil  until  done;  pour  this  in  a  dish 
sprinkled  thickly  with  blanched  almonds  cut  fine,  but  not 
pounded.  When  nearly  cold,  mark  off  with  a  buttered  knife, 
but  do  not  raise  it  until  perfectly  cold. 

CARAMELS.— No.  1. 
Two  and  half  pounds  of  brown  sugar  in  sufficient  water 


CANDY.  187 

to  dissolve  it,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter;  boil  these  to- 
gether or  fifteen  minutes,  and  add  one  and  a  quarter  pounds 
of  grated  chocolate  dissolved  in  have  a  pint  of  creamor  milk; 
cook  slowly  one  hour.  Pour  on  buttered  plates,  and  when 
nearly  cold  mark  off  in  small  squares. 

CARAMELS.— No.  2. 

One  fourth  jDOund  of  grated  chocolate,  one  and  a  fourth 
pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  fourth  pound  of  butter,  one  tea- 
cup of  cream  or  milk;  boil  the  whole  briskly  half  an  hour, 
stirring.  Have  ready  buttered  plates ;  pour  out  on  them, 
and  when  nearly  cold  mark  off  in  small  squares. 

HONEY  CREAM-CANDY. 

Ten  pounds  of  white  sugar,  with  just  enough  water  to  dis- 
solve it.  When  neai'lydone,  add  a  tea-cup  of  molasses;  cook 
till  well  done;  then  add  half  a  tea  cup  of  butter.  Flavor 
with  oil  of  lemon  to  suit  the  taste.  To  prevent  graining, 
put  in  a  tea-spoonful  cream  of  tartar.  Pull  rapidly,  and 
handle  lightly. 

MOLASSES-CANDY. 

Dissolve  one  cup  of  sugar  in  half  a  cup  of  vinegar;  mix 
with  one  quart  of  molasses,  and  boil  until  it  hardens  when 
dropped  from  the  spoon  into  cold  water;  then  stir  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in 
hot  water.  Give  one  hard  final  stir,  and  pour  into  buttered 
dishes.  Pull  hard  until  white,  using  only  the  tips  of  the 
fingers. 

WHITE   NOUGAT. 

Ten  pounds  of  white  sugar,  half  a  gallon  of  strained  honey, 
three  pounds  of  blanched  almonds,  one  table-spoonful  of  oil 
of  lemon.  After  the  sugar  is  melted  and  strained,  cook  until 
nearly  done;  have  the  honey  boiling,  and  pour  on  the  sugar 
in  the  kettle;  set  it  on  the  fire  again,  and  when  it  boils  up 


188  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

well  pour  out  on  a  greased  marble ;  add  the  oil  of  lemon. 
When  cool  enough  to  handle,  turn  it  up  and  bleach  on  a  can- 
dy-hook ;  when  white,  take  off  and  spread  it  out  on  the  mar- 
ble, and  sprinkle  the  blanched  almonds  all  over  it ;  fold  it  up, 
and  spread  out  again  with  more  almonds.  Continue  work- 
ing it  over  the  same  way  until  ail  the  almonds  are  worked 
in ;  then  form  into  a  long  bar,  and  cut  up  in  square  pieces. 


CATCHUP,  SAUCES,  AND  PICKLES.  189 


CATCHUP,  SAUCES,  AND  PICKLES. 


VINEGAR. 

To  eight  gallons  of  water  add  one  gallon  of  molasses  and 
a  half  gallon  of  spirits.  Put  into  a  cask,  shake  well  a  few 
times,  then  add  a  pint  of  good  yeast,  or  two  yeast-cakes' 
Keep  in  a  warm  place ;  in  ten  days  slip  a  sheet  of  brown  pa- 
per— which  has  been  rolled  up  and  dipped  in  molasses — into 
the  bung-hole  of  the  barrel.  Cover  the  bung-hole  with  a 
piece  of  muslin  until  the  vinegar  is  good ;  then  close  it  with 
a  cork. 

EXCELLENT  VINEGAR. 

Take  four  gallons  of  rain-water,  one  gallon  of  Louisiana  or 
Florida  sirup,  and  two  yeast-cakes  three  inches  square. 
Put  these  together  in  a  jar.  Do  not  exclude  the  air  while 
fermentation  is  going  on.  A  little  sunshine  on  it  will  hasten 
the  making  of  the  vinegar. 

SPICED  VINEGAR. 

To  four  gallons  of  strong  vinegar  add  one  pound  of  ginger, 
one  dozen  cloves,  one  ounce  each  of  mace,  nutmeg,  black 
pepper,  allspice,  and  red  pepper ;  also,  a  little  turmeric,  and 
one  pound  of  grated  horse-radish.  The  spices  should  be 
ground  and  inclosed  in  a  muslin  bag.  It  is  better  to  make 
your  spiced  vinegar  and  keep  it  on  hand  ready  for  pickles, 
as  it  improves  from  standing.  Prepare  pickles  in  the  usual 
way,  and  pour  this  vinegar  over  them.  Pickles  keep  better 
when  the  vinegar  is  not  boiled. 


190  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

TOMATO  CATCHUP.     (Good.) 

Cut  any  quantity  of  ripe  tomatoes  across  the  middle,  put 
them  in  a  large  kettle,  and  let  them  simmer  till  soft;  strain 
them  first  through  a  colander,  then  through  a  sieve.  Boil 
the  liquid  again  until  the  watery  substance  ceases  to  rise  on 
the  surface.  To  every  half  gallon  of  tomato-juice  add  one 
quart  of  vinegar,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  salt,  two  table-spoon- 
fuls each  of  black  pepper  and  dxy  mustard,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  cayenne  pepper,  one  tea-spoonful  of  whole  cloves,  and  one 
clove  of  garlic.  Boil  again  until  it  is  thick.  Cook  and  seal 
while  hot.     Use  a  porcelain  kettle. 

TOMATO  CATCHUP.— No.  i. 
Take  one  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes,  remove  the  stems,  cut 
them  into  two  pieces,  and  cook  them  in  a  porcelain  kettle 
until  they  are  tender;  then  strain  them  through  a  sieve;  add 
half  a  gallon  of  white  wine  vinegar,  four  cloves  of  garlic  well 
chopped,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  table-spoonful  each  of  all- 
spice, cloves,  mace, — these  must  bo  ground, — and  one  small 
cup  of  salt.  Bring  this  mixture  to  a  boil;  when  cool,  bottle 
and  seal  well. 

TOMATO  CATCHUP.— No.  2. 

Wash  the  tomatoes,  cut  them  up,  put  them  in  a  porcelain 
kettle,  boil  half  an  hour,  and  then  strain  them  through  a 
sieve.  To  four  quarts  of  liquid  add  one.  quart  of  vinegar, 
eight  pods  of  green  pepper,  and  two  onions  chopped  fine,  two 
table-spoonfuls  each  of  ground  black  pepper  and  salt,  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  whole  cloves  and  allspice.  Boil  until  it  be- 
comes brown.     Stir  it  well. 

CUCUMBER  CATCHUP. 

Peel,  grate,  and  squeeze  through  a  cloth,  until  all  the 
water  is  exhausted,  one  peck  of  full-grown  cucumbers. 
Then  add  cider-vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  and  onion  to  taste. 


CATCHUP,  SAUCES,  AND  PICKLES.  191 

Put  in  glass  jars,  pour  a  table-spoonful  of  olive-oil  in  each, 
and  seal  them  well. 

PEPPER  CATCHUP.— No.  i. 

Take  four  dozen  large  red  pepper-pods,  three  quarts  of  vin- 
egar, three  table-spoonfuls  of  grated  horse-radish,  five  onions 
andone  clove  of  garlic.  Boil  until  soft,  and  strain  through  a 
sieve.  Then  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  black  pepper,  all. 
spice,  mace,  cloves,  and  salt.  Boil  again  ten  minutes;  then 
bottle.  Some  add  one  quart  of  tomatoes  and  one  cup  of 
sugar. 

PEPPER  CATCHUP.— No.  2. 

Take  fifty  large  red  peppers,  one  gallon  of  vinegar,  and 
one  table-spoonful  of  salt.  Boil  until  the  peppers  are  well 
done.  Strain  them  through  a  sieve,  getting  as  much  pulp  as 
possible. 

GRAPE  CATCHUP. 

Take  five  pounds  of  grapes,  boil  and  strain  them  through 
a  colander;  add  to  the  grape-juice  one  pint  of  vinegar,  two 
and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar,  one  table-spoonful  each  of  cinna- 
mon, cloves,  allspice,  pepper,  and  half  a  table-spoonful  of 
salt.     Boil  again  until  the  catchup  is  a  little  thick. 

FRENCH  MUSTARD. 

One  pound  of  Coleman's  mustard,  one  half  gallon  of  vine- 
gar, one  half-pint  bottle  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  one 
tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Mix  these,  then  boil  to  the  consistency 
of  French  mustard ;  add  to  this,  while  boiling,  one  jar  of 
French  mustard. 

ITALIAN  MUSTARD 

One  large  onion,  one  half-tumbler  of  water,  one  tea-spoon- 
ful each  of  brown  sugar  and  black  pepper,  one  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  two  table  spoonfuls  of  mustard.  Boil 
the  onion,  put  the  other  ingredients  in  a  cup,  and  add  enough 


192  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

of  the  water  in  which  the  onion  has  been  boiled,  to  mix 
them ;  then  add  a  little  vinegar  and  a  small  glass  of  claret. 

CITRON  SWEET  PICKLE. 

Put  the  cut  rind  of  water-melon  in  strong  brine ;  let  it  re- 
main nine  days;  then  in  strong  alum- water  twenty- four 
hours ;  then  in  clear  water  twenty-four  hours,  changing  the 
water  several  times.  To  one  quart  of  vinegar  add  two  and 
a  half  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  table-spoonful  of  allspice, 
whole,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  cloves.  Let  these  ingredients 
boil ;  then  add  the  fruit,  and  let  it  boil  until  you  can  easily 
stick  a  fork  in  it. ' 

BLACKBERRY  SWEET  PICKLE. 

To  one  pound  and  a  half  of  half-ripe  berries  put  one  pound 
of  sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  and  spices  to  suit  the  taste. 
Boil  twenty  minutes. 

DAMSON  PICKLE. 

Four  pounds  of  fruit,  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  spices  to  the 
taste.  Pour  boiling  vinegar  over  them  nine  mornings  in 
succession. 

GERMAN  PICKLE. 
To  seven  pounds  of  fruit  take  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one 
quart  of  cider -vinegar,  one  ounce  each  of  cloves  and  mace. 
Let  the  vinegar  and  sugar  come  to  a  boil;  pour  this  over  the 
fruit ;  repeat  the  process  three  mornings.  Let  it  boil  fifteen 
minutes,  when  the  pickle  will  be  ready  for  use. 

SWEET  PICKLED  FIGS— No.  i. 

Pluck  ripe,  but  not  full-ripe  figs,  stems  on.  Put  in  a  jar; 
sprinkle  on  salt — one  half  pound  to  a  peck  of  fruit.  Pour 
boiling  water  sufficient  to  cover  figs,  then  let  it  stand  twelve 
hours;  then  drain  in  a  colander.  If  too  salt,  rinse  with  fresh 
water.     Fill  jars  with  the  fruit,  and  pour  over  it  hot  boiling 


CATCHUP,  SAUCES,  AND  PICKLES.  193 

vinegar  that  has  had  added  to  it,  a  pound  of  sugar  to  the 
gallon,  and  boiled.  Put  sticks  of  cinnamon  and  some  cloves 
in  the  jar. 

SWEET  PICKLED  FIGS.— No.  2. 

Gather  five  quarts  of  figs,  with  stems.  Let  them  be  only 
half  ripe.  Put  them  in  salt-water,  and  let  them  stand  twelve 
hours.  Dry  them,  then  parboil  in  alum-water,  using  a  piece 
of  alum  half  the  size  of  a  nutmeg.  Be  careful  not  to  let  them 
break ;  when  soft,  take  them  out  and  wash  in  three  buckets  of 
clear  water,  to  take  the  alum  out.  Dry  them  well.  Make  a 
sirup  with  a  pint  of  sti-ong  vinegar,  a  very  little  water,  and  a 
pound  of  sugar.  Flavor  with  mace  and  cloves.  When  the 
sirup  has  boiled  well  put  the  figs  into  it.  Use  glass  jars. 
These  pickles  will  keep  for  years. 

SWEET  PICKLED  PEACHES. 

Eemove  the  skin  from  the  peaches  by  making  a  mixture 
of  boiling  water  and  concentrated  lye.  Put  in  the  peaches 
and  let  them  remain  until  the  rough  skin  begins  to  dissolve. 
Have  ready  a  pan  of  cold  water  to  drop  them  in  ;  wash  them 
thoroughly,  then  put  them  on  dishes  to  dry.  To  each  pound 
of  peaches  use  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  half  a  pint  of 
white  wine  vinegar,  two  ounces  of  allspice,  and  one  ounce 
each  of  cloves  and  mace.  Put  the  vinegar,  sugar,  and  spices 
in  a  kettle  to  boil ;  then  put  the  peaches  in  ;  cook  them  until 
you  can  pass  a  straw  through  them.  Be  careful  not  to  let 
them  break  in  cooking. 

SWEET-PICKLE  PEACHES. 

Take  seven  pounds  of  fruit,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  and  one 
pint  of  vinegar.     When  boiling,  put  in  the  fruit;  add  a  few 
cloves,  spice,  and  some  cinnamon ;  put  these  in  a  muslin  bag. 
Boil  twenty  minutes. 
13 


194  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK'. 

SWEET  PLUM  PICKLE. 

To  ten  quarts  of  ripe  plums  use  seven  pounds  of  sugar,  one 
pint  of  strong  vinegar,  half  ounce  each  of  allspice  and  mace, 
and  two  grated  nutmegs.  Make  a  sirup  of  the  vinegar  and 
sugar  and  spices.  Pour  this  over  the  plums  for  three  da}-s, 
taking  care  to  have  the  jars  well  closed.  The  fourth  day 
boil  the  fruit  with  the  sirup,  until  it  is  almost  a  jelly. 

RIPE  CANTALOUP  PICKLE. 

To  three  pounds  of  fruit  add  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  and 
a  quarter  pints  of  vinegar,  a  dozen  cloves,  a  piece  of  cinna- 
mon, four  pieces  of  white  ginger,  a  tea-spoonful  each  of  cel- 
ery-seed and  salt.     Boil  all  together. 

MELON  PICKLE. 

Take  ripe  cantaloups,  peel  and  slice,  drop  into  vinegar,  and 
let  it  stand  twelve  hours.  Take  out,  and  to  one  gallon  of 
vinegar  add  three  pounds  of  sugar  and  one  tea-cupful  of 
cloves,  spice,  and  cinnamon  mixed.  Boil  this,  and  while 
boiling  drop  in  the  melon  and  let  it  remain  ten  minutes. 
Pour  it  off  into  a  jar,  and  the  next  day  boil  the  vinegar 
again  and  pour  over  the  melon  while  hot. 

OIL  MANGOES. 

Gather  the  melons  a  size  larger  than  a  goose-egg;  cut  a 
slit  from  the  stem  to  the  blossom,  and  take  the  seed  carefully 
out;  fill  them  with  salt  and  let  them  remain  two  weeks, 
turning  them  over  frequently.  Then  wash  them  in  cold 
water  two  or  three  times,  to  remove  all  salt,  and  spread  on 
dishes  to  dry.  Stuffing. — Wash  one  pound  of  white  ginger 
in  boiling  water;  when  soft,  slice  thin  one  pound  of  grated 
horse-radish,  one  pound  of  onions  chopped  fine,  one  pound 
of  white  mustard-seed,  one  ounce  of  mace,  one  ounce  of  nut- 
megs, two  ounces  of  turmeric,  and  one  handful  of  whole  black 
pepper.     Make  these  ingredients  into  a  paste  with  a  quarter 


CATCHUP,  SAUCES,  AND  PICKLES.  195 

of  a  pound  of  dry  mustard  and  a  large  cupful  of  olive-oil. 
Put  a  clove  of  garlic  in  each  melon  ;  sew  the  melons  up  after 
stuffing,  and  pack  in  jars  with  the  caps  up.  Strew  some  of 
the  stuffing  over  each  layer  of  mangoes,  and  cover  with  cold 
vinegar,  adding  another  cup  of  olive-oil.  Notice  at  intervals, 
and  if  needed  add  more  vinegar.  They  should  be  kept  in  a 
dry  place,  and  closely  covered. 

PEPPER  MANGOES. 

Gather  your  pepper  when  green.  Cut  a  slit  in  each  pep- 
per; take  the  seed  out  carefully  and  wash  them.  Pour  weak, 
boiling  brine  over  them,  and  let  them  stand  four  days;  re- 
new the  brine  daily,  and  always  have  it  boiling  hot.  Freshen 
the  peppers,  and  stuff  them  with  cabbage  that  has  been  chop- 
ped very  fine,  and  seasoned  with  cinnamon,  mace,  and  cloves 
that  have  been  pounded  fine,  and  with  whole,  white  mustard- 
seed.  After  stuffing  the  peppers  tie  a  cord  around  each  one ; 
pack  them  in  a  jar  and  pour  strong,  boiling  vinegar  over 
them  three  weeks  in  succession.  The  last  time  add  a  small 
piece  of  alum  to  the  vinegar. 

PEPPER  MANGOES  WITH  OIL. 

Cut  a  slit  in  each  pepper;  take  the  seed  out,  and  put  the 
peppers  in  salt-water ;  let  them  remain  two  days.  Freshen 
the  peppers  and  stuff  them  with  the  following  mixture: 
Chop  onions  and  pickled  cucumbers  very  fine.  Add  a  tea- 
cupful  each  of  mustard  and  cabbage-seed,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
dry  mustard,  and  the  same  of  black  pepper ;  also,  one  tea- 
cupful  of  sweet-oil.  Sew  the  peppers  up.  Put  them  in  a 
jar  and  pour  boiling  vinegar  over  tnem. 

CUCUMBER  MANGOES. 

Prepare  two  gallons  of  cucumbers  as  you  would  other  mel- 
ons for  mangoes.  Make  stuffing  of  two  pounds  of  sugar,  a 
small  piece  of  horse-radish  grated,  one  and  a  half  ounce  each 


196  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

of  white  and  black  mustard-seed,  and  the  same  quantity  of 
celery-seed.  Mix  well  and  stuff  the  cucumbers ;  place  them 
in  a  jar  and  pour  on  them  five  quarts  of  apple-vinegar, 
sweetened  to  taste. 

PEACH  MANGOES. 

Gather  one  peck  of  clear-stone  peaches  before  they  are 
fully  ripe.  To  remove  the  rough  skin  drop  them  in  boiling 
lye,  then  in  cold  water;  wash  them  in  several  waters,  then 
wipe  them  dry.  Cut  the  peaches  on  one  side  and  remove 
the  stone.  Make  the  dressing  of  white-head  cabbage  chop- 
ped fine,  half  a  pound  of  white  mustard-seed,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  each  of  allspice  and  grated  horse-radish,  one  table- 
spoonful  each  of  cloves,  mace,  and  a  little  salt.  Fill  the 
peaches,  put  them  in  a  jar,  then  cover  well  with  boiling  vin- 
egar. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLE. 

Take  small  cucumbers;  put  them  in  a  strong  brine  for 
forty-eight  hours.  Pour  off  the  brine  and  wash  the  cucum- 
bers in  cold  water.  Lay  butter-bean  leaves  in  the  bottom  of 
a  kettle;  put  in  the  cucumbers,  and  cover  them  with  water  in 
which  a  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut  has  been 
dissolved ;  cover  them  closely  with  more  leaves ;  simmer 
slowly  until  the  cucumbers  are  green.  Drain  the  cucumbers. 
To  every  fifty  allow  four  quarts  of  vinegar,  one  ounce  each  of 
ginger,  allspice,  cloves,  cinnamon,  black  pepper,  celery-seed, 
and  a  few  small  onions.  Boil  the  vinegar  and  spices  to- 
gether, pour  over  the  cucumbers  boiling  hot,  and  simmer  a 
few  minutes. 

SPANISH  PICKLE. 

One  peck  of  cucumbers,  one  half  peck  of  green  tomatoes, 
four  cabbages,  three  handfuls  of  onions,  eight  pods  of  green 
pepper — all  these  chopped  fine;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
white  mustard-seed,  a  handful  of  bhick  pepper,  one  ounce  of 


CATCHUP,  SAUCES,  AND  PICKLES  197 

celery-seed,  a  small  tea-cup  of  each;  mace  and  allspice.  One 
pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  pint  of  molasses,  one  table-spoon- 
ful of  salt,  and  one  gallon  of  vinegar.  Mix  these  ingredients 
in  a  kettle,  and  let  them  simmer.     Pour  over  the  pickles. 

CABBAGE  PICKLE.— No.  i. 

Take  on  quart  of  finely- chopped  onions,  three  table-spoon- 
fuls each  of  cloves,  white  mustard-seed,  black  pepper,  celery- 
seed,  and  ground  mustard,  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  and 
three  quarts  of  strong  vinegar.  Simmer  this  compound  until 
it  begins  to  thicken.  Pour  it  over  one  gallon  of  finely- chop- 
ped cabbage,  and  boil  a  few  minutes. 

CABBAGE  PICKLE.— No.  2. 

Take  red  or  white  cabbage ;  remove  the  leaves  from  .the 
stalk,  wash  them  thoroughly,  put  them  in  a  wooden  tray, 
and  chop  it  fine;  sprinkle  well  with  salt,  and  let  it  stand 
twelve  hours;  then  wash  all  the  salt  out  of  it,  put  it  on  trays 
or  dishes  to  drain  off  the  water.  Put  in  a  kettle  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  white  wine  vinegar,  to  cover  the  cabbage.  Fla- 
vor with  whole  allspice ;  when  the  vinegar  comes  to  a  boil 
put  in  the  cabbage  and  let  it  boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 
When  cool,  put  it  in  air-tight  jars. 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKE  PICKLE. 

Scrape  the  artichokes  well  and  soak  them  several  hours  in 
brine.  Boil  together  vinegar,  allspice,  cloves,  celery-seed 
mustard-seed,  mace,  and  black  pepper,  in  quantities  to  suit' 
your  taste.  When  boiling  hot  pour  over  the  artichokes. 
Cover  closely. 

WALNUT  PICKLE. 

Select  walnuts  before  the  shells  begin  to  harden.  Make  a 
strong  brine  of  salt  and  cold  water,  using  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  water;  soak  the  walnuts  in  this  a 
week,  then  put  them  in  the  sun  until  they  turn  black.     Take 


198 


GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


half  a  pound  of  mustard-seed,  half  ounce  each  of  allspice, 
cloves,  and  mace,  two  ounces  of  black  pepper,  and  four  large 
spoonfuls  of  grated  horse-radish.  Boil  all  these  ingredients 
in»  one  gallon  of  vinegar;  pour  over  the  walnuts,  covering 
them  entirely.     Pickled  walnuts  improve  with  age. 

RAILROAD  PICKLE. 

Take  one  peck  of  cucumbers,  cut  them  in  pieces  one  inch 
thick,  and  four  onions  sliced.  Lay  these  in  a  kettle,  adding 
the  following  ingredients :  Three  ounces  of  turmeric,  two 
pounds  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  black  pepper,  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  dry  mustard,  one  half  ounce  of  mace,  one  cup  of  all- 
spice, and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  ginger.  The  spices  must 
be  ground.     Cover  well  with  vinegar.     Cook  two  hours. 

CHOWCHOW. 

Take  a  peck  of  white  cabbage  and  cut  fine,  three  dozen 
onions  sliced  thin,  sprinkle  both  with  salt  and  let  them  stand 
twelve  hours;. then  press  out  the  salt-water  and  spread  them 
on  dishes  to' dry.  For  seasoning  take  a  half  box  of  mustard, 
two  ounces  of  turmeric,  a  very  little  red  pepper,  half  a  pound 
of  white  mustard- seed,  and  a  small  piece  of  horse-radish. 
Beat  the  following  spices  fine,  and  add  two  table-spoonfuls 
of  each  :  Cloves,  mace,  ginger,  nutmeg,  and  celery-seed.  Put 
cabbage  and  all  the  ingredients  in  a  kettle,  cover  well  with 
strong  vinegar,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  After  taking  from 
the  fire  add  one  pint  of  salad-oil. 

ONION  PICKLE. 

Take  small  onions,  peel  and  drop  them  into  cold  water  to 
prevent  changing  color ;  then  drain  them  and  boil  them  in 
equal  parts  of  milk  and  water;  drain  "and  cover  with  best 
vinegar.     Season  with  red  pepper  and  white  ginger-root. 

MUSTARD  PICKLE. 
After  your  fruit  has  been  in  brine,  soak  it  in  clear  water 


CATCHUP,    SAUCES,  AND  PICKLES.  199 


until  the  salt  is  out.  Tako  a  kettle  that  holds  a  little  more 
than  a  gallon ;  put  in  the  bottom  a  layer  of  grape-leaves. 
Sprinkle  in  pulverized  alum, — apiece  the  size  of  a  nutmeg, — 
a  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  allspice,  black  and  red  pep- 
per; also,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  then  a  layer  of  fruit 
Continue  these  layers  until  you  fill  the  kettle;  cover  with 
vinegar  and  let  it  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  until  green.  Mix 
smoothly  with  vinegar  five  boxes  of  mustard,  seven  and  a 
haif  cups  of  sugar ;  to  this  add  one  table-spoonful  each  of 
cloves,  mace,  allspice,  celery-seed,  cinnamon,  turmeric,  and 
four  table-spoonfuls  of  salad-oil ;  mix  well.  Drain  off  the 
first  vinegar  from  your  fruit,  and  pour  this  mixture  over  it. 
Allow  the  whole  to  boil  a  few  minutes.  In  three  weeks  it 
will  be  ready  for  use. 

GREEN-TOMATO  SAUCE. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  twelve  large  onions ;  slice 
them  and  lay  on  dishes,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  salt. 
Set  them  aside  for  twenty-four  hours.  Drain  them  through 
a  sieve  until  they  are  perfectly  dry.  Put  them  in  a  kettle  and 
cover  with  strong  vinegar.  Let  them  simmer,  but  not  boil, 
until  quite  tender.  To  flavor  them,  add  one  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  white  mustard-seed,  three  pods  of  red  pepper  sliced  thin, 
one  ounce  each  of  allspice,  mace,  cloves,  black  pepper,  and 
celery-seed;  also,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar.  After  re- 
moving it  from  the  fire  add  a  half  pint  of  brandy,  and  a  half 
tea-cup  of  sweet-oil. 

PICKLE-SAUCE. 

Take  six  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  two  quarts  of  green 
pepper,  and  one  quart  of  onions;  slice  them  up  separately, 
sprinkle  them  with  salt,  and  let  them  stand  two  days.  Then 
strain  them  from  the  brine;. add  one  gallon  of  vinegar,  one 
tea-cup  of  sugar,  one  box  of  dry  mustard,  a  half  pound  of 
white  mustard-seed,  two  spoonfuls  of  each  black  pepper,  cin- 


200  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

nanion,   cloves,   allspice,   and   mace.      The   spices   must  be 
ground.     Boil  fifteen  minutes. 

REGENT  PICKLE. 

Take  two  gallons  each  of  cucumbers  and  cabbage,  one  pint 
of  onions.  Chop  all  these  very  fine;  then  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  salt,  one  pound  of  sugar,  two  table-spoonfuls  each  of 
allspice  and  cloves,  five  table-spoonfuls  of  dry  mustard,  one 
paper  of  celery-seed,  and  two  gills  of  white  mustard-seed. 
Mix  all  well,  and  put  it  over  the  fire  a  few  minutes.  Stir  it 
constantly. 


BEVERAGES.  201 


BEVERAGES. 


TO  PREPARE  COFFEE.— No.  i. 

Pick  over  the  grains  to  remove  all  imperfect  ones;  wash, 
drain,  and  dry.  Parch  always  on  top  of  the  stove,  stirring 
constantly.  In  this  way  it  is  done  rapidly  and  evenly. 
When  a  good  brown,  and  just  after  taking  off  the  stove,  be- 
fore emptying  from  the  pan,  stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of  butter; 
this  quantity  to  two  or  three  pounds  of  coffee. 

TO  PREPARE  COFFEE— No.  2. 

Scald  the  green  coffee,  and  dry  in  the  oven ;  leave  in  till 
parched  a  good  brown.  When  done,  have  the  whites  of  one 
or  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  stir  in  the  coffee,  and  set 
back  in  the  oven  a  minute  to  dry.  Parched  coffee  should  al- 
ways be  kept  in  a  close  can  or  jar. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  COFFEE. 

To  every  half  pint  of  water  allow  one  table-spoonful  of 
ground  coffee.  Do  not  grind  too  fine,  either  for  boiled  or 
dripped  coffee. 

TO  MAKE  TEA. 

First  scald  the  tea-pot  with  boiling  water.  Allow  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  tea  for  each  person,  or  each  half  pint  of  water. 
After  putting  the  tea  in  the  tea-pot,  only  pour  on  a  little  of 
the  boiling  water  at  first;  allow  to  steep  a  few  minutes,  and 
then  pour  on  the  balance  of  the  water. 


202  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

Hot  or  iced  tea  is  best  made  of  mixed  tea — equal  quantities 
of  black  and  green. 

CHOCOLATE.— No.  i. 

Mix  two  heaping  table-spoonfuls  of  chocolate  to  a  smooth 
paste  with  water.  Stir  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  allow  to 
boil  five  minutes;  then  add  half  a  pint  of  milk.     Serve  hot. 

CHOCOLATE.— No.  2. 

Dissolve  two  squares  of  Baker's  chocolate  in  a  cupful  of 
hot  water;  beat  well  the  yelks  of  four  eggs  with  six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  mix  in  the  chocolate.  Have  boiling 
a  quart  of  new  milk;  stir  the  mixture  in  the  milk,  and  let 
boil  a  few  minutes  till  it  thickens.  Serve  very  hot,  and  on 
the  top  of  each  cup  lay  a  spoonful  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 

MILK-PUNCH.— No.  1. 

Stir  in  a  glass  of  new  milk  one  table-spoonful  of  white 
sugar,  the  same  of  brandy;  grate  nutmeg  on  the  top.  Milk- 
punch  is  generally  prepared  in  this  way  for  invalids. 

MILK-PUNCH.— No.  2. 

One  glass  of  fresh  milk  (must  be  very  fresh,  or  it  will 
curdle),  one  egg  beaten  very  light,  with  one  table-spoonful 
of  sugar.  Mix  with  the  egg  and  sugar  one  table-spoonful  of 
brandy  ;  pour  on  the  milk,  and  grate  nutmeg  on  the  top. 

HOT  MILK-PUNCH. 


Beat  together,  very  light,  the  yelks  of  two  eggs  and  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  sugar  ;  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sherry 
wine  or  brandy,  and  pour  over  all  one  pint  of  boiling  fresh 
milk,  and  grate  nutmeg  on  it.     Drink  as  hot  as  possible. 

CREAM  NECTAR. 

Put  into  a  porcelain  kettlo  three  pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  two 
ounces  of  tartaric  acid,  one   quart  of  water ;  set  it  on  the 


BEVERAGES.  203 


fire;  when  warm,  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a 
froth;  stir  it  well  for  a  few  minutes,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 
When  cool,  strain  it,  and  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  essence  of 
lemon,  and  bottle.  Put  two  table-spoonfuls  in  a  glass,  fill  it 
half  full  of  cold  water,  and  stir  in  one  fourth  tea-spoonful  of 
soda.     Drink  while  effervescing. 

CHAMPAGNE  CUPS. 

Two  bottles  of  champagne,  two  dessert-spoonfuls  of  white 
sugar,  two  bottles  soda-water,  a  half  lemon  squeezed,  a  half 
lemon  sliced,  one  wine-glass  curacoa,  a  few  sprigs  of  borage, 
and  plentifully  iced.  Cut  lemon  very  thin,  and  throw  in  the 
peel. 

CLARET  CUP. 

Two  bottles  of  claret,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  white  sugar, 
two  bottles  of  soda-water,  half  a  lemon  squeezed,  half  a  lem- 
on sliced,  two  wine-glasses  of  sherry,  one  wine-glass  of  mar- 
aschino wine,  or  cordial ;  use  ice  plentifully.  Slice  lemons 
thin,  and  throw  in  the  peel. 

EGGNOG No.  i. 

To  each  egg  allow  one  table-spoonful  of  sugar  and  one  ta- 
ble-spoonful of  brandy  or  whisky;  beat  the  eggs,  whites  and 
yelks  together ;  when  partially  beaten,  add  the  sugar;  then 
beat  till  very  light;  add  the  brandy  last.  When  the  eggs 
are  beaten  in  this  way  it  requires  more  time;  but  they  are 
not  so  likely  to  separate.  For  an  invalid,  sherry  wine  is  a 
delicate  substitute  for  brandy. 

EGGNOG.— No.  2. 

Allow  the  same  proportions  as  above.  Beat  the  whites  and 
yelks  of  the  eggs  separately,  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  For 
about  twelve  eggs  beat  very  light  a  pint  of  sweet  cream,  and 
stir  in  just  before  eating. 


204  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

EGGNOG.— No.  3. 

To  each  egg  allow  one  small  wine  glass  of  brandy,  one  ta- 
ble-spoonful of  sugar;  beat  the  whites  and  yelks  separately. 
After  beating  the  yelks  well,  gradually  add  the  sugar,  then 
the  brandy;  also  allow  about  three  wine-glasses  of  rum  to 
about  one  dozen  eggs;  pour  in  the  milk,  as  much  as  you  like, 
— say  a  quart  to  a  dozen  eggs, — and  last  stir  in  the  whites, 
when  they  are  as  light  as  they  can  be  beaten. 

SHERRY-COBBLER. 

In  a  tumbler  of  lemonade  stir  in  a  wine-glass  of  sherry 
wine,  and  pounded  ice.  Sliced  pine-apple  may  be  put  in  if 
desired. 

A  GOOD  COCK-TAIL. 

Dissolve  four  square  lumps  of  white  sugar  in  one  table- 
spoonful  of  water;  add  one  small  wine-glassful  of  whisky 
and  one  tea-spoonful  of  Boker's  Bitters.     Add  ice. 

WHISKY   PUNCH. 

Six  quarts  of  water,  one  quart  of  strong  green  tea,  two 
pounds  of  sugar,  two  dozen  sliced  lemons,  two  sliced  pine- 
apples, one  bottle  extract  of  vanilla,  one  grated  nutmeg,  and 
one  gallon  of  whisky. 

PRINCE  REGENT  PUNCH. 

Six  quarts  of  water,  one  quart  of  strong  green  tea,  two 
dozen  lemons  sliced,  one  gallon  of  whisky,  one  quart  of 
curacoa  cordial,  two  pine-apples  sliced,  and  two  pounds  of 
loaf-sugar.     Float  strawberries  over  the  top,  if  in  season. 

ROMAN  PUNCH. 
One  gallon  of  water,  one  pint  of  wine,  one  pint  of  old  rum, 
half  pint  of  brandy,  four  lemons,  and  sweeten  it  well.     Add 
more  brandy  if  needed.     Ice  abundantly,  or  freeze. 


BEVERAGES.  205 


A  PLEASANT  DRINK,  OR  BEER. 

Three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  and  a  half  pints  of  mo- 
lasses, four  ounces  of  tartaric,  acid ;  mix  in  two  quarts  of  boil- 
ing water;  strain  it,  and  when  cold  it  is  fit  for  use.  Take 
two  table-spoonfuls  for  a  tumbler  two-thirds  full  of  water ; 
add  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda ;  flavor  with  any  extract  you 
like,  as  you  use  it. 

CORN  BEER. 

Two  gallons  of  water,  one  quart  of  boiled  corn  well  cooked, 
two  quarts  of  molasses,  a  small  quantity  of  ginger.  Let  it 
stand  until  ready  for  use, 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL.— No.   i. 

Boil  the  blackberries  in  a  little  water  about  fifteen  min- 
utes; then  strain  them.  To  one  quart  of  juice  put  three 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar;  season  with  cloves,  cinnamon, 
and  allspice,  and  boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  To  three 
quarts  of  the  juice  put  in  one  quart  of  brandy. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL.— No.  2. 

To  each  quart  of  blackberry -juice  add  one  pound  of  white 
sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one  fourth  an  ounce  of 
mace,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cloves.  Boil  this  mixture  twen- 
ty minutes;  strain,  and  when  cold  put  to  each  quart  a  pint 
of  French  brandy. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL.— No.  3. 

Fill  a  demijohn  with  blackberries  perfectly  ripe,  and  pour 
on  as  much  whisky  or  brandy  as  it  will  hold;  spices  to  the 
taste — about  a  handful  of  cinnamon,  two  of  allspice,  and  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  cloves  to  a  five-gallon  jar.  Allow  it  to 
stand  about  three  weeks,  after  which  pour  off  the  liquor,  and 
sweeten  to  the  taste. 


206  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

BLACKBERRY  OR  PEACH  CORDIAL. 

Nearly  fill  your  glass  jars  with  fresh-gathered  berries,  or 
peaches  cut  up;  fill  up  with  whisky,  and  let  it  stand  six 
months  or  more.  Pour  off  the  whisky,  mash  the  berries  well, 
strain,  and  put  in  their  juice.  Put  sugar  into  a  brass  kettle, 
and  cover  with  enough  water  to  make  a  thick  sirup ;  tie  in  a 
piece  of  muslin  some  mace,  cloves,  and  any  other  spices  you 
wish  ;  drop  in  and  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Pour  into 
the  whisky,  and  bottle. 

MINT  CORDIAL. 

After  the  mint  is  washed,  bruise  it  slightly,  and  put  in  a 
stone  jar  or  other  vessel  and  cover  it  with  whisky.  Let  it 
stand  twenty-four  hours;  then  strain,  and  to  a  quart  of  it 
put  a  pint  of  loaf-sugar.     Bottle. 

CHERRY  CORDIAL. 

Put  cherries  in  your  jar,  and  cover  with  whisky.  Let  it 
stand  two  weeks ;  mash  and  strain  through  a  cloth ;  then 
add  sugar  to  make  a  thick  sirup. 

SCUPPERNONG  WINE.— No.  I. 

To  one  gallon  of  the  juice  of  the  grape  add  two  pounds  of 
white  sugar.  When  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  pour  into  demi- 
johns or  kegs,  reserving  a  small  quantity  to  fill  up  the  demi- 
john, which  must  be  kept  well  filled  and  uncorked  until  the 
wine  ceases  to  ferment.  The  best  plan  is  to  fill  them  every 
morning.  When  fermentation  ceases,  strain  it  carefully  and 
bottle  it,  being  careful  not  to  cork  it  too  tightly.  In  drawing 
it  for  use,  be  particular  not  to  shake  the  bottle,  or  the  wine 
will  mix  with  the  lees  and  become  muddy. 

SCUPPERNONG  WINE.— No.  2. 

Press  the  juice  from  the  grape,  and  to  every  gallon  put 
three  pounds  of  good  sugar;  put  into  an  open-mouthed  vessel, 
with  a  thin  cloth  over  it,  and  let  stand  three  or  four  days ; 


BEVERAGES.  207 


skim,  and  put  in  jugs,  taking  care  not  to  cork  tightly  until 
the  fermentation  ceases.  Set  away  for  six  or  eight  weeks ; 
then  bottle  for  use. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE.— No.  i. 

Measure  your  berries,  and  bruise  them.  To  every  gallon 
add  one  quart  of  boiling  water;  let  the  mixture  stand  twen- 
ty-four hours,  stirring  occasionally.  To  every  gallon  put 
two  pounds  of  sugar.  Cork  tightly,  and  let  stand  till  the  fol- 
lowing October,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE.— No.  2. 

Measure  and  bruise  your  berries,  and  to  every  gallon  add 
one  quart  of  boiling  water  ;  let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  stir- 
ring occasionally.  Strain  off  the  liquor  into  an  open  vessel, 
to  every  gallon  adding  three  pounds  of  good  brown  sugar. 
Let  it  remain  open  about  ten  days,  skimming  it  frequently; 
then  put  it  into  jugs.  Do  not  cork  tightly.  Let  it  remain 
so  for  three  or  four  weeks,  when  fermentation  will  be  over. 
Cork  tightly.     In  the  fall  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

SOUR-ORANGE  WINE.— No.  1. 

Peel  the  oranges;  cut  across  in  halves,  and  squeeze;  strain, 
and  to  every  gallon  of  juice  add  five  gallons  of  water  and 
twenty-five  pounds  of  sugar.  Ferment  and  bottle  as  you 
would  other  wines.  Use  for  this  the  sour,  not  bitter-sweet 
orange. 

SOUR-ORANGE  WINE— No.  2. 

Three  quarts  of  water,  one  quart  of  orange-juice,  three 
pounds  of  sugar,  and  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg. 


208  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


COMFORTS  FOR  THE  SICK. 


"  I  own  that  nothing  like  good  cheer  succeeds.  " 


Always  endeavor  to  have  the  food  for  the  sick  as  attractive 
in  appearance  as  in  taste.  Prepare  and  serve  in  small  quan- 
tities, as  fresh  as  possible.  Avoid  consulting  the  patient  as 
to  what  he  would  like  to  eat.  Study  all  the  peculiarities  of 
the  patient,  and  humor  him  whenever  by  so  doing  you  do 
not  interfere  with  the  instructions  of  the  physician. 

BEEF-TEA. 

About  three  pounds  of  lean,  juicy  beef  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Put  in  a  strong  bottle  or  wide-mouthed  jar ;  place  the  jar  in  a 
vessel  of  cold  water,  and  put  on  the  fire,  with  a  weight  on 
top  to  keep  it  down  in  the  water,  having  previously  corked 
it  closely.  Boil  for  three  or  four  hours;  pour  off  the  tea, 
and  season  with  salt.  If  desired,  add  one  dozen  allspice  and 
half  a  dozen  cloves  before  boiling.  Any  grease  rising  on  the 
top  must  be  carefully  skimmed  off.  A  small  tin  bucket  closely 
covered,  with  a  flat-iron  placed  on  top  as  a  weight,  is  an  ex- 
cellent substitute  for  the  orthodox  bottle  or  jar,  as  in  the  old 
way  the  bottle  is  often  broken  by  the  heat  just  as  it  is  ready 
to  take  up,  and  all  the  tea  is  lost.  The  bucket  should  be 
new,  and  very  clean. 

HASTY  BEEF-TEA. 
Cut  up  in  very  small  pieces  lean,  juicy  beef,  and  pour  on 


COMFORTS  FOR  THE  SICK.  209 

just  enough  cold  water  to  prevent  burning.  Wutch  closely 
to  prevent  scorching.  When  done,  season  with  salt.  If 
beef-tea  is  allowed  to  cool,  any  grease  in  it  can  be  readily 
detected  and  taken  oft".  Heat  only  the  quantity  desired  to 
give  the  patient  at  one  time 

CHICKEN-ESSENCE. 

Take  a  whole  small  chicken  or  half  of  a  large  one;  mangle 
it,  so  as  to  crush  the  bones;  pour  on  it  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
cold  water,  and  drop  in  three  allspice.  Place  it  over  a  fire, 
and  notice  what  time  it  begins  to  boil ;  allow  it  to  continue 
boiling  twenty  five  minutes,  when  the  water  will  have  ex- 
tracted all  the  strength  of  the  chicken,  and  will  be  palatable 
to  anybody  after  the  addition  of  a  very  little  salt.  This  is 
most  nutritious,  and  has  never  been  known  to  be  distasteful 
to  a  sick  person  when  well  made  and  offered  hot.  A  spoon- 
ful every  hour  will  suffice  for  a  very  weak  person,  without 
other  nourishment;  yet  it  may  be  safely  taken  in  larger- 
quantities,  it  the  patient  wishes  it. 

CHICKEN-BROTH. 

Cut  up  half  of  a  chicken,  and  pour  on  one  quart  of  cold 
water.  Place  over  the  fire,  and  allow  to  boil  slowly  two 
hours.  After  boiling  one  hour,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  rice; 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Skim  carefully  while  boiling. 

MUTTON-BROTH. 

One  pound  of  mutton  or  lamb  cut  in  small  pieces.  Pour 
on  this  one  quart  of  cold  wSter,  and  allow  it  to  boil  till  the 
meat  falls  to  pieces;  cover  close  while  boiling;  strain,  and 
add  a  table-spoonful  of  rice  and  a  little  parsley  or  thyme , 
boil  half  an  hour,  stirring  frequently;  then  add  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  and  four  table-spoonfuls  of  milk. 

EGG-TEA. 

Beat  one  egg  very  light,  with  sufficient  sugar  to  sweeten. 

14 


210  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

Pour  on  this  a  tumbler  of  boiling  water  and  a  wine-glass  of 
sherry  or  other  liquor,  according  to  taste.  After  adding  the 
water,  etc.,  have  another  vessel  ready,  and  pour  the  tea  rap- 
idly and  repeatedly  from  one  vessel  to  the  other  to  prevent 
curdling,  ,  Drink  warm. 

SOUP  MAIGRE.. 

Take  of  butter  half  a  pound;  put  it  in  a  deep  stew-pan, 
place  it  on  a  gentle  fire  till  it  melts,  shake  it  about,  and  let  it 
stand  till  it  has  done  making  a  noise.  Have  ready  six  me- 
dium-sized onions  peeled  and  cut  up  small;  throw  them  in 
and  shake  them  about.  Take  a  bunch  of  celery  cut  in  pieces 
about  an  inch  long,  a  large  handful  of  spinach  cut  small,  and 
a  little  bundle  of  parsley  chopped  fine;  sprinkle  these  into 
the  pan,  and  shake  them  about  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ; 
then  sprinkle  in  a  little  flour,  and  stir  it  up.  Pour  into  the 
pan  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  add  a  handful  of  dry 
bread-crust  broken  in  pieces,  a  tea-spoonful  of  pepper,  and 
three  blades  of  mace  beaten  fine;  boil  gently  another  half 
hour;  then  beat  up  the  yelks  of  two  eggs,  with  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  vinegar;  stir  them  in,  and  the  soup  is  ready.  The  or- 
der in  which  the  ingredients  are  added  is  very  important. 

EEG-SOUP. 

One  pint  of  water,  the  yelks  of  two  eggs,  a  lump  of  butter 
as  large  as  a  big  walnut,  sugar  according  to  taste ;  beat  them 
up  together  over  a  slow  fire,  gradually  adding  the  water. 
When  it  begins  to  boil,  pour  it  backward  and  forward  be- 
tween the  sauce-pan  and  bowl  till  quite  smooth  and  frothy 

BEEF  AND  CHICKEN  TEA. 

Take  one  pound  of  lean  beef,  one  half  of  a  hen,  boned ; 
pound  together  in  a  mortar;  add  one  fourth  of  an  ounce  of 
salt;  put  in  a  stew-pan  with  two  and  a  half  pints  of  water; 
stir  over  the  fire  till  boiling.  Then  add  carrots,  onions,  leeks, 
and  celery,  cut  fine.     Boil  half  an  hour;  strain,  and  serve. 


COMFORTS  FOR  THE  SICK.  211 


Beef-tea  and  broth  should  not  be  kept  hot,  but  heated  up 
as  required  It  may  be  warmed,  but  never  prepared  in  the 
sick-room,  for  nothing  sets  an  invalid  against  food  as  much 
as  cooking. 

NUTRIENT  ENEMA. 
Take  of  beef-tea  half  a  pint,  and  thicken  it  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  tapioca.  Reduce  one  and  three  fourths  ounces 
of  raw  beef  to  a  fine  pulp,  pass  it  through  a  fine  colander, 
and  mix  the  whole  up  with  twenty  grains  of  acid  pepsin  and 
a  dessert-spoonful  of  malt  flour.  It  should  have  a  bright  rose 
tint,  and  exhale  a  rich  meaty  odor.  Not  more  than  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  should  be  used  at  a  time,  and  that  slowly.  Thus 
frequent  repetition  is  facilitated.  If  the  pepsin  and  malt  are 
not  at  hand,  the  other  portion  of  the  liquor  may  be  adminis- 
tered alone. 

ANOTHER  EGG-TEA. 

Beat  the  yelk  of  one  egg  with  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar; 
add  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  stirring  all  the  time.  Grate  in  a  lit- 
tle nutmeg,  and  pour  on  half  a  pint  of  boiling  milk. 

EGGNOG. 
One  egg  well    beaten  with  a  dessert-spoonful   of  sugar; 
add  one  table-spoonful  of  brandy  or  wine  and  half  a  cup  of 
cream. 

ICED  EGG. 

Beat  very  light  the  yelk  of  one  egg,  with, a  table-spoonful 
of  sugar;  stir  in  this  a  tumblerful  of  very  finely-crushed  ice ; 
add  a  table-spoonful  of  brandy  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 
Beat  well  together,  and  drink  immediately. 

BLANC-MANGE. 

Two  table-spoonfuls  of  corn-starch  thoroughly  beaten  with 
one  egg.     Stir  this  into  a  pint  of  milk  when  nearly  boiling ; 


212  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

add  a  little  salt,  sugar,  and  flavoring  to  taste.  Boil  a  few 
minutes,  and  pour  into  a  mold  to  congeal.  To  be  eaten  with 
cream. 

BREAD-PUDDING.— No.  i. 

Take  of  crumbs  of  bread  two  ounces,  one  third  of  a  pint 
of  new  milk  boiling  hot ;  pour  the  hot  milk  on  the  bread, 
and  let  it  stand  about  an  hour  covered  up  ;  then  add  the  yelk 
of  an  egg  well  beaten ;  then  a  tea-spoonful  of  rose  or  orange- 
flower  water,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  half  an  ounce  of  sugar. 
Beat  all  up  together.  Tie  up  and  boil,  or  steam,  or  bake 
three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

BREAD-PUDDING.— No.  2. 

Pour  half  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  over  a  French  roll,  and 
let  it  stand  covered  up  till  it  has  soaked  up  the  milk.  Tie 
lightly  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 

HARTSHORN  JELLY. 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  hartshorn  shavings  (not  "raspings," 
which  are  adulterated  with  bone-dust),  or  an  equal  weight  of 
ivory  turnings,  in  three  pints  of  water  down  to  a  pint;  strain, 
and  add  three  ounces  of  white  sugar-candy  and  an  ounce  of 
lemon-juice.  Heat  up  again  to  the  boiling-point.  As  a  va- 
riety in  flavoring,  white  capri,  moselle,  or  champagne  may 
be  used  in  quantity  not  exceeding  two  table-spoonfuls. 

ARROW-ROOT. 

Stir,  into  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  a  large  table-spoonful  of 
arrow-root  well  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk;  boil  it  three  or 
four  minutes.     Sweeten  to  taste,  and  flavor  with  nutmeg. 

ARROW-ROOT   JELLY. 

Put  into  one  pint  of  boiling  water  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
arrow-root  previously  dissolved  in  a  little  water;  boil  a  few 


COMFORTS  FOR  THE  SICK.  213 

minutes.     After  taking  from  the  fire,  pour  in  a  wine-glass  of 
sherry  or  Madeira  wine.     Sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste. 

SAGO  JELLY. 

Put  to  soak  over  night  one  cupful  of  sago  in  a  tumbler  of 
cold  water.  In  the  morning,  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water 
and  the  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon;  boil  gently  twenty-five 
or  thirty  minutes.  Sweeten  to  taste;  add  a  wine-glass  of 
sherry,  and  set  aside  to  congeal. 

CUSTARD  AND  TOAST. 

Beat  together  till  very  light  one  egg  and  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  powdered  sugar;  pour  on  this  a  cup  of  boiling  milk,  and 
stir  till  thick.  When  done,  pour  into  a  dish  over  a'  slice  of 
toasted  bread.     Grate  on  a  little  nutmeg. 

TOAST-WATER. 

Cut  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bread  in  thin  slices,  and 
toast  an  even  brown,  being  careful  not  to  burn.  Put  into  a 
pitcher,  and  pour  on  three  pints  of  boiling  water.  Cover  till 
cool,  and  strain  into  another  pitcher.  Do  not  allow  the  toast 
to  remain  in  the  water  after  it  is  cold. 

GRUEL. 

Allow  two  table-spoonfuls  of  meal  to  one  pint  of  water. 
Pour  the  water,  cold,  on  the  meal,  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring 
constantly  to  avoid  lumps.  When  well  mixed,  boil  one  or 
two  minutes;  add  salt  to  taste,  and,  if  desired,  sugar.  Strain- 
ing after  it  is  boiled  is  a  decided  improvement.  Gruel  made 
with  milk  instead  of  water  is  more  nourishing  and  palatable. 

BARLEY  WATER. 

Wash  a  table-spoonful  of  pearl-barley  through  several 
waters  till  perfectly  clean,  and  put  it  in  a  jug  or  pitcher. 
Pub  several  lumps  of  sugar  on  a  lemon  to  absorb  all  the  oil, 
and  throw  into  the  jug  with  the  barley.     Peel  the  lemon, 


214  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

leaving  as  little  of  the  white  pulp  on  the  rind  as  possible; 
put  this  also  into  the  jug,  and  pour  on  boiling  water  till  the 
vessel  is  full.  In  half  an  hour  it  is  ready  for  use.  This  is  a 
palatable  beverage. 

FLAXSEED  TEA. 

Put  a  tablespoonful  of  flaxseed  in  a  pitcher,  and  pour  on 
one  pint  of  boiling  water ;  let  stand  till  it  thickens,  and  strain. 
Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  This 
should  be  drank  warm  for  colds  or  fevers,  but  cold  and  with- 
out the  lemon-juice  for  bowel  complaints. 

SLIPPERY-ELM  WATER 

Is  prepared  by  putting  the  bark  in  cold  water,  and  allow- 
ing it  to  stand  till  it  thickens;  sweeten  to  taste.  Benne-water 
is  prepared  in  the  same  way  from  the  leaves  of  the  plant. 
Both  are  excellent  for  inflammation  of  the  bowels. 

ORANGE-LEAF  TEA. 

Thoroughly  wash  a  large  handful  of  orange-leaves,  and 
put  in  a  pitcher.  Pour  on  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  cov- 
er closely.  When  well  steeped,  pour  off  and  sweeten  to  taste. 
Drink  while  warm.  An  excellent  fever-drink,  and  much 
used  in  yellow  fever. 

WINE-WHEY. 

Stir  into  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  one  half  pint  of  wine;  let 
it  boil  one  minute.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  let  stand  until 
the  curd  has  settled ;  then  pour  off  the  whey,  and  sweeten  it 
with  loaf-sugar.  Lemon,  vinegar,  and  alum  whey  are  made 
in  like  manner. 

GUM-ARABIC  WATER. 

Take  one  ounce  of  gum  arabic,  and  pour  on  it  a  pint  of 
boiling  water;  stir  while  dissolving;  sweeten  to  taste.  The 
juice  of  a  lemon  squeezed  in  is  an  improvement.  This  is  giv- 
en to  persons  suffering  from  inflammation  of  the  stomach. 


COMFORTS  FOR  THE  SICK.  215 

APPLE-WATER. 

Pare  and  core  one  half  dozen  juicy  apples,  and  bake  them 
until  quite  soft;  put  thorn  in  a  pitcher,  and  pour  over  enough 
hot  water  to  make  a  pleasant  drink;  sweeten  to  taste.  When 
cold,  it  is  ready  for  use. 

BOILED  FLOUR. 

Tie  tightly  in  a  close  linen  cloth  one  pound  of  flour.  After 
tying,  moisten  with  water,  and  dredge  well  with  flour  till  a 
coating  is  formed  to  prevent  the  water  entering  the  flour. 
Boil  four  or  five  hours,  and  let  the  flour  remain  tied  in  the 
cloth  until  it  is  cold.  It  will  be  a  hard,  solid  lump,  and  is  a 
substitute  for  arrow-root.  Prepare  by  grating.  Excellent  in 
diarrhea  or  other  bowel  affections. 

DIET  FOR  INFANTS. 

Ms  Prepared  by  Dr.  J.  F.  Meigs.) 

Dissolve  a  piece  of  gelatine  an  inch  square  in  half  a  gill 
of  warm  water;  when  dissolved,  add  a  gill  of  milk;  put  on 
the  fire,  and  when  boiling  add  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  arrow- 
root or  boiled  flour-ball.  When  sufficiently  boiled,  take  off 
the  fii*e,  and  stir  in  two  table -spoonfuls  of  sweet  cream.  This 
may  be  given  to  very  young  infants  ;  and  as  they  grow  older 
the  food    may  be  made  stronger   by  using   more  milk  and 

cream. 

PANADA. 

Toast  nicely  a  slice  of  bread,  and  pour  over  it  a  h«t  brandy 
toddy  ;  grate  over  it  nutmeg. 

ANOTHER  PANADA 

One  ounce  of  bread-crumbs,  once  blade  of  mace,  one  pint 
of  water  ;  boil  without  stirring  till  they  mix  and  turn  smooth  ; 
then  add  a  grate  of  nutmeg,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sherry,  and  sugar  according  to  taste. 

RICE  FLUMMERY. 
Take  rice  in  proportion  to  the  quantity  required;  put  it  in 


216  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

a  broad  pan;  cover  with  water;  stir  up  together,  and  let 
stand  twelve  hours.  Then  pour  off  the  water  as  long  as  it 
runs  clear.  Add  fresh  water,  mix,  and  let  stand  twelve  hours 
more.  Repeat  the  same  process  a  third  time.  When  the 
rice  has  thus  been  macerated  thirty-six  hours,  strain  it  through 
a  hair- sieve  and  boil  it,  stirring  it  vigorously  till  it  is  quite 
thick.  Pour  it  in  a  dish  to  cool,  and  eat  it  cold,  vvith  milk  or 
a  little  wine  and  sugar. 

CRACKER  AND  CREAM 

A  nicely-toasted  cracker,  with  sweet  cream  poured  over  it, 
is  delicate  and  nourishing  for  an  invalid. 

TAPIOCA. 

Soak  over  night  two  table-spoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  two  cups 
of  water.  In  the  morning,  add  .one  pint  of  milk,  sugar  to 
taste,  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  simmer  till  soft,  stirring  frequent- 
ly. When  dished,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  wine,  and  grate 
over  a  little  nutmeg. 

•  LEMON-JELLY. 

One  half  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  three  gills  of  warm 
water,  with  a  good  half  pint  of  loaf-sugar.  Squeeze  and 
slice  two  lemons,  extracting  the  seeds,  in  three  gills  of  water, 
and  boil  till  the  lemons  are  soft  or  their  strength  is  extracted. 
Mix  this  with  the  gelatine  and  sugar,  and  strain ;  set  aside 
to  congeal.     To  be  eaten  with  cream. 

"  SOFKY." 

To  a  quart  of  well-washed,  well-beaten  hominy  put  a  gal- 
lon of  cold  water;  keep  it  boiling  steadily  but  slowly  until 
the  hominy  begins  to  get  soft.  Then  add  good  strong  lye, 
sufficient  to  discolor  a  silver  spoon  when  the  mixture  is  stir- 
red with  it.  Mash  the  hominy  with  a  spoon  or  roller,  and 
let  boil  half  an  hour;  then  the  liquor  will  be  as  thick  as 
gruel.     Take  it  off.  and  when  you  serve  the  liquor  to  the  pa- 


COMFORTS  FOR  THE  SICK.  0^7 

tient,  add  salt,  sugar,  milk,  or  wine.  Do  not  mix  or  'flavor 
more  than  the  patient  can  eat  at  once,  or  about  a  tea-cupful. 
The  lye  should  be  made  fresh  from  good  wood-ashes.  "  Big 
hominy"  should  be  used  for  making  sofky,  not  grits. 

ALKALINE  DRINK. 

Cut  the  rind  of  a  lemon  very  thin,  and  put  it  in  a  jug  with 
a  table-spoonful  of  powdered  sugar-candy.  Pour  on  it  a  lit- 
tle boiling  water,  and,  when  it  is  dissolved,  half  a  pint  of 
Vichy  water  and  half  a  pint  of  common  water. 

MALT-TEA. 

Boil  three  ounces  of  malt  in  a  quart  of  water. 

CLARET-CUP  FOR  INVALIDS. 

Half  a  bottle  of  claret  to  a  bottle  of  soda-water.  Half  a 
dozen  drops  of  sweet  spirits  of  niter  put  into  the  jug  first 
gives  a  fruity  flavor. 

SAGE-TEA. 

Take  half  an  ounce  of  leaves  of  green  sage  plucked  from 
the  stalks  and  washed  clean,  one  ounce  of  sugar,  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  the  outer  rind  of  lemon-peel  finely  pared  from 
the  white;  put  them  in  two  pints  of  boiling  water;  let  them 
.stand  near  the  fire  half  an  hour;  then  strain.  When  the 
sage  is  dried,  it  must  be  used  in  rather  less  quantity  than 
above  mentioned. 

In  the  same  manner,  teas  may  be  made  of  rosemary,  balm, 
southern-wood,  etc.,  and  are  convenient  to  prevent  a  thirsty 
patient  taking  too  much  tea  and  coffee  when  not  good  for 
him.     The  use  of  acid  is  also  avoided. 

MASHED  POTATOES. 

Boil  one  pound  of  potatoes  with  their  jackets  on  till  they 
are  tender  or  brittle;  peel  therh,  and  rub  them  through  a  fine 
sieve.     When  cool,  add  a  small  tea-cupful  of  fresh  cream  and 


218  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

a  little  salt,  beating  the  -puree  up  lightly  as  you  go  on  till  it  is 
quite  smooth,  and  warming  it  up  gently  for  use. 

POTATO  SURPRISE. 

Scoop  out  the  inside  of  a  sound  potato,  leaving  the  skin; 
attached  on  one  side  to  the  hole  as  a  lid.  Mince  up  fine  the 
lean  of  a  juicy  mutton-chop,  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper 
put  it  in  the  potato,  pin  down  the  lid,  and  bake  or  roast.  Be- 
fore serving  (in  the  skin),  add  a  little  hot  gravy,  if  the  mince 
seems  too  dry. 


MEDICINAL.  219 


PLAIN  CORN-BREAD. 


MEDICINAL. 


COUGH  MIXTURES. 

Fifteen  drops  of  oil  of  tar,  half  an  ounce  of  balsam  of  fir,  and 
alcohol  sufficient  to  dissolve  it.  Boil  one  tea-cup  of  molasses 
for  several  minutes,  and  pour  it  in  the  above  mixture,  to- 
gether with  a  pint  of  the  best  whisky,  and  shake  it  until 
well  mixed.  Dose:  A  table-spoonful  two  or  three  times  a 
day. 

ANOTHER. 

Take  one  ounce  of  hops,  one  pint  of  water,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flax-seed.  Put  all  in  a  vessel  and  boil  till  reduced 
one  half.  Strain  it  off;  add  one  half  pint  of  molasses  and  one 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar.  Boil  till  it  becomes  a 
thick  sirup.     Dose:     One  table-spoonful  at  a  time. 

ANOTHER. 

Take  one  dime-package  of  hoarbound,  put  it  in  one  quart 
of  water,  and  boil  down  to  a  pint.  Strain'and  add  one  pint 
of  honey  or  sirup,  one  stick  of  licorice,  and  boil  down  to  a 
pint.  When  cool,  thin  to  the  proper  consistency  with  whis- 
ky. Dose:  A  dessert-spoonful  when  the  cough  is  trouble- 
some ;  when  very  bad,  add  a  little  paregoric  to  the  dose. 

ANOTHER. 

One  pint  of  cider  vinegar;  drop  in  over  night  an  unbroken 
egg,  shell  and  all.     In  the  morning  beat  it  well  till  all  is  dis- 


220  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

solved ;  then  sweeten  with  loaf-sugar  to  the  taste.  Strain 
and  bottle.  Shake  well  before  taking.  Dose :  A  table-spoon- 
ful when  the  cough  is  troublesome. 

ANOTHER 

One  ounce  of  elecampane  and  one  ounce  of  comfrey-root 
soaked  in  one  quart  of  water ;  boil  to  a  pint.  Strain  and  add 
one  pint  of  molasses  or  honey,  and  thin  with  one  pint  of 
good  whisky.  Boil  one  stick  of  licorice  with  it.  When  done, 
add  half  an  ounce  of  sirup  of  squills,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
paregoric.  Give  a  table-spoonful  every  hour  or  two,  or  when 
the  cough  is  troublesome.  For  a  child,  two  tea-spoonfuls  is  a 
dose.  This  is  perfectly  harmless,  and  has  never  been  known 
to  fail  in  curing  a  cough. 

ANOTHEK. 

One  pound  of  wet  brown  sugar,  one  table-spoonful  of  cook 
ing-soda  and  one  of  fine  tar.     Stir  well  together,  and  pour  one 
pint  of  boiling  water  on  it.     Prepare  at  night,  let  it  stand 
until  morning,  then  pour  off  and  bottle.     Dose  for  an  adult  : 
One  table-spoonful  early  in  the  morning. 

WHOOPING-COUGH  SIRUP. 

One  ounce  each  of  boneset,  slippery  elm,  stick  licorice, 
and  flax-seed.  Simmer  all  together  in  one  quart  of  water, 
until  the  strength  is  entirely  extracted ;  then  strain  and  add 
one  pint  of  molasses  and  half  a  pound  of  white  sugar.  Sim- 
mer all  well  together.  When  cold,  bottle  and  cork  tightly. 
This  sirup  is  excellent  for  any  bad  cough. 

REMEDY  FOR  CROUP. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  powdered  alum,  mixed  with  twice  the 
quantity  of  sugar.  Give  as  quickly  as  possible.  This  affords 
almost  instantaneous  relief. 


MEDICINAL.  221 


FOR  HOARSENESS. 

To  a  pint  of  whisky  put  as  much  rock-candy  as  it  will  dis- 
solve.    Dose :     A  tea-spoonful  at  a  time. 

GARGLE  FOR  SORE  THROAT. 

Make  a  tea  of  red-oak  bark,  with  a  little  alum  dissolved 
in  it. 

ANOTHER. 

One  tea-spoonful  of  chlorate  of  potash,  dissolved  in  a  tum- 
bler of  warm  water,  is  an  excellent  gargle.  Swallowing  a 
little  of  the  mixture  occasionally  will  be  beneficial. 

ANOTHER. 

Make  a  strong  sage-tea,  and  add  one  tea-spoonful  of  borax 
and  one  of  alum.     Make  very  sweet  with  honey. 

ANOTHER    REMEDY. 

Take  old  bacon,  roll  it  full  of  salt,  and  bind  it  on  the 
throat.  It  will  take  all  the  inflammation  out.  Use  alum- 
water  to  gargle  the  throat.  If  you  have  no  bacon,  mix  lard 
and  salt  together,  spread  it  on  a  flannel  cloth,  and  apply  to 
the  throat. 

BINKERD'S  SALVE  FOR  BURNS. 

Take  of  yellow  wax,  melted  and  strained,  three  ounces 
linseed-oil,  raw,  one  and  a  half  pints;  tannic  acid,  half  an 
ounce;  bicarbonate  bismuth,  one  dram;  powdered  opium, 
one  scruple;  carbolic  acid,  thirty  drops.  Take  a  common 
fruit-can,  not  oxidized,  cleanse  it  thoroughly,  melt  the  wax 
in  it,  then  add  the  oil,  keeping  it  very  liquid  by  heat,  stir- 
ring it  vigorously  all  the  while.  After  all  the  oil  has  been 
poured  in,  stir  it  for  five  or  ten  minutes;  then  set  it  off  to 
cool,  agitating  it  as  before.  When  it  begins  to  chill,  add  the 
tannic  acid;  later,  put  in  the  bismuth,  opium,   and  carbolic 


222  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

acid.     The  quantity  of  oil  must  depend  on  the  season ;  less 
in  summer  and  more  in  winter. 

FOR  BURNS. 

Great  relief  is  sometimes  afforded  in  case  of  a  burn  by 
sprinkling  thickly  with  carbonate  of  soda,  and  laying  over 
this  a  soft  linen  cloth,  saturated  with  water. 

Linseed-oil  and  lime-water,  mixed  in  equal  quantities,  are 
also  excellent  for  a  burn. 

DR.  W.  H.  PANCOAST'S  LINIMENT. 

Camphor,  one  and  a  half  dram;  olive-oil,  one  ounce;  aqna 
ammonia,  one  ounce ;  tincture  aconite  root,  one  ounce ;  oil 
origanum,  one  half  ounce;  laudanum,  one  half  ounce. 

A   GOOD   LINIMENT. 

Gum  camphor,  one  ounce ;  chloroform,  one  fluid  ounce ; 
tincture  of  aconite  root,-  half  a  fluid  ounce ;  tincture  of  arnica, 
two  fluid  ounces;  soap  liniment  enough  to  make  six  fluid 
ounces. 

ANOTHER.  i 

One  pint  of  alcohol,  two  ounces  of  spirits  ammonia,  one 
ounce  gum  camphor,  one  half  ounce  tincture  arnica,  and  one 
ounce  of  sweet-oil. 

CURE  FOR  FEVER  AND  AGUE 

Twenty  grains  of  quinine,  ten  grains  of  blue  vitriol,  and 
five  grains  of  opium.  To  be  made  into  twenty  pills.  Dose — 
Two  pills  three  times  a  day. 

ANOTHER. 

Twenty  grains  of  quinine,  twenty  grains  of  peruvian  bark, 
half  a  dram  elixir  of  vitriol,  in  one  pint  of  good  whisky. 
Dose  for  an  adult :  Half  a  wine'-glassful  three  times  each 
day. 


MEDICINAL.  223 


FOR  DYSENTERY. 


One  tea-spoonful  of  common  salt,  one  of  epsom  salts,  twen- 
ty drops  of  laudanum,  fifteen  drops  of  camphor,  in  a  goblet 
of  water.     Dose:     A  dessert-spoonful  every  hour. 

VNOTI1ER. 

One  table-spoonful  of  epsom  salts,  and  one  tea-spoonful  of 
laudanum,  in  a  tumbler  water. 

FOR  SUMMER-COMPLAINT  IN  INFANTS. 

One  ounce  sirup  of  rhubarb,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  pare- 
goric, one  tea-spoonful  of  sup.  carbonate  of  soda,  well  mixed. 
Dose :     From  ten  to  fifteen  drops. 

HEADACHE. 

To  cure  a  simple  headache,  immerse  the  feet  in  hot  water 
and  keep  them  there  for  twenty  minutes.  If  the  pain  is  se- 
vere, add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  dry  mustard,  keeping  the 
water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne. 

Sick-Headache. — Two  tea- spoonfuls  of  finely-powdered 
charcoal,  drank  in  a  half  tumbler  of  water,  will  often  give 
relief,  when  caused  by  superabundance  of  acid  in  the  stom- 
ach. 

TO  STOP  VOMITING. 

A  mustard  plaster ; '  or  a  warm  plaster  made  of  toasted 
bread  dipped  in  brandy,  with  nutmeg  grated  over  it ;  or  a 
plaster  made  of  all  the  spices  pounded,  and  moistened  with 
brandy ;  either  of  these  applied  to  the  chest,  will  generally 
give  relief.  A  julep  made  very  strong  with  bruised  mint  is 
also  good. 

ANOTHER. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda,  a  table-spoonful  of 
spirits  of  lavender,  in  half  a  goblet  of  water.  Take  a  spoon- 
ful frequently. 


224  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


TO  STOP  BLEEDING. 

At  the  Nose. — Fold  a  piece  of  paper  about  as  thick  as 
your  little  finger,  and  about  two  inches  long,  and  place  be- 
tween your  lips  and  gums,  just  under  the  nose.  Keep  it 
pressed  tightly  there  by  holding  your  finger  on  your  lip,  and 
it  will  generally  relieve  in  a  short  time. 

At  a  Wound. — Mix  equal  parts  of  wheat  flour  and  com- 
mon salt,  and  bind  on  with  a  cloth. 

ANOTHER. 

Take  the  fine  dust  of  tea,  or  the  scrapings  of  the  inside  of 
tanned  leather,  and  bind  it  close  upon  the  wound.  After 
the  blood  has  ceased  to  flow,  laudanum  may  be  applied  ad- 
vantageously. 

FOR  SPRAINED  ANKLE. 

Make  a  poultice  of  flour  and  vinegar,  of  the  consistency  of 
pudding-batter,  and  bind  on  the  ankle;  keep  wet  with  vine- 
gar, renewing  when  dry.     Sit  with  the  foot  elevated. 

CURE  FOR  EARACHE. 

Take  a  bit  of  cotton  batting,  put  upon  it  a  pinch  of  black 
pepper;  gather  it  up  and  tie  it;  dip  it  in  sweet-oil,  and  in- 
sert it  in  the  ear.  Put  a  flannel  bandage  over  the  head  to 
keep  it  warm.     It  will  give  immediate  relief. 

ANOTHER. 

Take  an  onion  and  roast  it  well;  pour  on  it  a  little  lauda- 
num and  sweet-oil.  Put  a  few  drops  of  the  juice  in  the  ear, 
and  stop  it  with  wool;  bind  the  warm  onion  to  it. 

FOR  TOOTHACHE. 
A  few  drops  of  sodique,  or  oil  of  cloves,  or  creosote,  or 
chloroform,  on  a  piece  of  cotton,  placed  in  the  cavity  of  the 
tooth,  will  generally  give  relief. 


MEDICINAL,  .  225 


FOR  NIGHT-SWEAT. 

Make  a  strong  tea  of  sage;  strain  and  sweeten  to  the  taste. 
A  tumblerful  taken  before  going  to  sleep  will  prevent  the 
sweat  common  to  very  feeble  persons. 

AN  EXCELLENT  ENEMA. 

One  quart  of  warm  water,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of 
table-salt,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  lard. 

FOR  FAINTING. 

If  a  person  faints,  place  him  on  the  flat  of  the  back  and 
give  plenty  of  fresh  air.     Do  not  crowd  around  him. 

PLASTER  FOR  A  RISEN  BREAST. 

One  table-spoonful  of  melted  bees-wax,  one  table-spoonful 
of  linseed-oil,  one  table-spoonful  of  sassafras-oil. 

ANOTHER. 

Take  equal  parts  of  bees-wax,  mutton-suet,  and  camphor. 

FLAXSEED  POULTICE. 

To  make  a  poultice  sufficiently  large  for  the  chest  or  stom- 
ach, stir  into  about  one  pint  of  boiling  water  sufficient  flax- 
seed meal  to  thicken.  Boil  till  thick  and  smooth,  stirring 
constantly.  Pour  into  a  swiss-muslin  bag,  securing  the 
opening  so  that  the  poultice  will  not  escape.  Apply  as  warm 
as  can  be  borne.  Lay  over  the  poultices  one  or  two  thick- 
nesses of  flannel,  or  a  piece  of  oil-silk,  to  prevent  the  damp- 
ness reaching  the  clothing,  and  to  retain  the  heat. 

TO  MAKE  A  MUSTARD -PLASTER. 

For  an  ordinary  plaster  use  one  part  flour  and  two  parts 

mustard — say  one  table-spoonful  of  flour  and  two  of  mustard  ; 

mix  with  a  little  warm  water.     If  wanted  to   draw  rapidly 

use  no  flour,  and  mix  with   vinegar  or  whisky.     A  plaster 

15 


226  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

made  of  mustard  alone,  and  mixed  with  the  white  of  an  egg, 
will  di*aw  perfectly,  and  not  produce  a  blister. 

Note. — This  may  be  the  contributor's  experience,  but  it  is 
not  every  one's.  We  know  and  have  felt  whereof  we  speak. 
After  the  plaster  is  spread  lay  a  piece  of  this  muslin  over  it, 
so  that  the  plaster  will  not  come  in  contact  with  the  skin. 

CURE  FOR  BONE  FELON. 

One  table-spoonful  of  saltpeter,  one  of  copperas,  one  of  salt 
pulverized,  mixed  with  a  table-spoonful  salt  soap,  one  red 
onion  roasted;  mash  all  well  together,  making  a  poultice; 
apply  to  the  felon,  and  let  it  remain  a  day.  If  it  does  not  re- 
lieve entirely  apply  another  the  next  day. 

ANOTHER. 

Take  of  blue  flag-root  and  white  hellebore,  cut  up  very 
fine,  equal  parts  ;  boil  them  in  milk  and  water.  Hold  the 
finger  in  this  as  hot  as  it  can  be  borne,  about  fifteen  minutes; 
then  lay  the  hot  roots  on  the  felon,  and  let  them  remain 
about  one  hour.  Eenew  the  application  several  times,  or  un- 
til the  pain  is  removed.  The  above  recipe  has  been  proved 
by  the  contributor. 

ANOTHER. 

A  small  Spanish-fly  blister  applied  in  the  first  stages  of  the 
felon  is  said  to  be  a  certain  cure. 

ANOTHER. 

Bathing  the  felon  with  tincture  of  lobelia  sometimes  gives 
great  relief. 

TO  CURE  A  STY  ON  THE  EYE. 

Apply  the  rotten  part  of  an  apple  as  a  poultice  to  the  eye. 
It  is  both  cooling  and  healing,  and  removes  the  inflammation. 


MEDICINAL.  227 


ANOTHER. 

Put  a  tea-spoonful  of  black  tea  in  a  small  muslin  bag. 
Pour  on  it  just  enough  boiling  water  to  moisten  it;  then  put 
it  on  the  eye  pretty  warm,  and  keep  it  on  all  night.  If  the 
sty  is  not  removed  in  the  morning,  a  second  application  will 
effect  a  cure. 

TO  DESTROY  WARTS. 

Dissolve  as  much  common  washing-soda  as  the  water  will 
take  up.  Wash  the  warts  with  this  for  a  minute  or  two,  and 
let  them  dry  without  wiping.  Keep  the  water  in  a  bottle, 
and  frequently  repeat  the  washing. 

ANOTHER. 

Lunar  caustic  carefully  applied  so  as  not  to  touch  the  skin, 
will  destroy  warts. 

CURE  FOR  CORNS. 

Mix  smoothly  together  a  tea-spoonful  of  pulverized  indigo, 
the  same  of  brown  soap  and  mutton-suet.  Spread  on  a  piece 
of  kid  and  apply  to  the  corn. 

ANOTHER. 

Apply  a  good  coat  of  gum-arabic  mucilage  to  the  corn, 
every  evening  on  going  to  bed. 

LIP-SALVE. 

Spermaceti,  virgin  wax,  and  lard,  one  ounce  each  ;  balsam 
of  Peru,  half  an  ounce;  six  sweet  almonds,  six  fresh  raisins, 
loaf-sugar  the  size  of  a  hickory- nut.  Melt  over  the  fire  and 
stir  constantly.     Strain  when  melted. 

FOR  CHAPPED  HANDS  AND  LIPS. 

Melt  together  equal  quantities  of  sweet-oil,  white  wax, 
spermaceti,  and  mutton-suet. 


228  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


ANOTHER. 

Take  of  honey  any  quantity,  oil  of  sweet  almonds  sufficient 
to  make  a  thin  paste;  rub  the  oil  in  gradually  until  well 
mixed.  After  washing  the  hands,  and  while  still  wet,  take  a 
small  quantity  and  rub  thoroughly  on  the  parts  affected; 
then  wipe  the  hands  dry. 

CURE  FOR  TETTER. 

One  poke-root  boiled  to  a  strong  decoction  ;  take  one  pound 
of  the  best  loaf-sugar;  boil  with  the  poke-root  to  a  thick 
sirup.  Dissolve  twenty  grains  of  iodide  of  potash  in  a  little 
water,  and  mix  with  the  poke-root  sirup.  Dose :  One  table- 
spoonful  three  times  a  day. 

ANOTHER. 

Corrosive  sublimate,  one  grain;  oil  of  lavender,  one  dram; 
castor-oil,  one  dram ;  alcohol,  two  ounces.  Mix  and  apply 
externally.     Do  not  let  it  get  into  the  eyes  or  mouth. 

HAIR-TONIC. 

One  half  ounce  tincture  cantharides,  tnree  ounces  of  castor- 
oil,  and  one  pint  of  alcohol. 

ANOTHER. 

One  ounce  of  box-ax,  one  half  ounce  of  gum  camphor,  beat- 
en up  fine;  pour  on  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  When  cool, 
it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

ANOTHER. 

Sixty  grains  of  quinine  put  into  a  quart  of  bay  rum. 
GLYCERINE  HAIR-TONIC. 

Glycerine,  bay  rum,  each  one  ounce;  tincture  cantharides 
half  an  ounce;  rose-water,  four  ounces;  aqua  ammonia,  one 
fourth  ounce.     Mix. 


MEDICINAL.  229 

This  tonic  will  stop  the  hair  from  falling  out,  will  effectu- 
ally remove  dandruff,  and  as  a  dressing  will  far  surpass  any 
of  the  pomatums  or  greasy  preparations  now  in  use. 

FOR  BITE  OF  INSECTS. 
A  lump  of  wet  saleratus  applied  to  the  sting  of  a  wasp, 
spider,  or  bee,  will   stop   the  pain  almost  immediately,  and 
prevent  all  swelling  of  the  part. 

ANOTHER. 

Tobacco,  slightly  moistened  with  water,  and  applied  to  the 
sting,  will  afford  instant  relief. 

ANTIDOTES  FOR  POISONS. 
Make  the  patient  vomit  by  giving  a  tumbler  of  warm 
water  with  a  tea-spoonful  of  mustard  in  it,  and  then  send 
for  the  doctor.  If  if  be  necessary  to  act  without  the  doctor, 
and  the  poison  is  arsenic,  give  large  quantities  of  milk  and 
raw  eggs,  or  flour  and  water.  If  the  poison  is  an  acid,  give 
magnesia  and  water,  or  chalk  and  water,  and  plenty  of  warm 
water  besides.  If  it  is  an  alkali,  like  potash,  give  vinegar 
and  water,  lemon  juice,  or  some  other  safe  acid.  Always  re- 
member the  emetic  first.  If  it  be  laudanum,  strong  coffee  is 
a  good  thing  to  give  until  the  doctor  comes.  Keep  the  pa- 
tient awake. 

CURE  FOR  COLDS  IN  THE  HEAD. 

A  snuff  composed  of  the  following  ingredients:  Hydro- 
chlorate  of  morphia,  two  grains;  scacia  powder,  two  drams; 
trisnitrate  of  bismuth,  six  drams.  A.  pinch  of  the  powder  in- 
haled through  the  nose  five  or  six  times  a  day  will  greatly 
alleviate  a  cold  in  the  head. 

FOR  A  BRUISE. 
Mix   sweet-oil  and  laudanum  in  equal  quantities  and  apply 
to  the  bruise.     It  will  relieve  the  soreness  and  prevent  discol- 
oration. 


230  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


HOUSEKEEPER'S   ALPHABET. 

Apples :  Keep  in  a  dry  place,  as  cool  as  possible  without 
freezing. 

Brooms:  Hang  up  by  the  handle. 

Cranberries:  Keep  under  water  in  cellar;  change  water 
monthly. 

Dish  of  hot  water  set  in  oven  prevents  cakes,  etc.,  from 
scorching. 

Economize  time,  health,  and  means. 

Flour :  Keep  cool,  dry,  and  securely  covered. 

Glass :  Clean  with  a  quart  of  water  mixed  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  ammonia. 

Herbs:  Gather  when  beginning  to  blossom;  keep  in  paper 
sacks. 

Ink-stains:  Wet  with  spirits  of  turpentine;  after  three 
hours,  rub  well. 

Jam:  Currant  and  red  raspberry  jam  are  excellent. 

Keep  an  account  of  all  supplies,  with  cost  and  date  of  pur- 
chase. 

Love  lightens  labor. 

Money :  Count  carefully  when  you  receive  change. 

Nutmegs:  Prick  with  a  pin,  and,  if  good,  oil  will  come  out. 

Orange  and  lemon  peel :  Dry,  pound,  and  keep  in  corked 
bottles. 

Parsnips :  Keep  in  the  ground  until  spring. 

(Quicksilver  and  white  of  an  egg  destroy  bed-bugs. 


MIS  CELLANEO  US.  231 


.Rice:  Select  large,  with  a  clear,  fresh  look;  old  rice  may 
have  insects. 

Sugar:  For  general  family  use  the  granulated  is  the  best. 

Tea:  Equal  parts  of  Japan  and  green  are  as  good  as  En- 
glish breakfast. 

Use  a  cement  made  of  ashes,  salt,  and  water  for  cracks  in 
the  stove. 

Variety  is  the  best  culinary  spice. 

Watch  your  back  yard  for  dirt  and  bones. 

Xantippe  was  a  scold;  do  not  imitate  her. 

Youth  is  best  preserved  by  a  cheerful  temper. 

Zinc-lined  sinks  are  better  than  wooden  ones. 

GOOD  YEAST-POWDER. 

Two  pounds  cream  of  tartar,  one  pound  carbonate  of  soda, 
one  pound  of  seconds  of  wheat;  all  well  mixed  and  sifted. 
Put  up  in  jars  or  tin  boxes. 

PICKLE  FOR  BEEF. 

Six  gallons  of  water,  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one 
quart  of  molasses,  nine  pounds  of  coarse  salt,  four  pounds  of 
fine  salt,  one  ounce  of  pearlash,  and  a  small  quantity  of  salt- 
peter. Put  the  meat  in  this  mixture,  and  let  it  remain  until 
the  pickle  becomes  bloody;  remove  the  beef,  and  boil  the 
pickle  until  clear.     When  perfectly  cold,  return  to  the  beef. 

PICKLE  FOR  HAM  OR  BEEF. 

To  one  hundred  pounds  of  meat  take  seven  pounds  of  coarse 
salt,  four  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  two  ounces  of  saltpeter, 
one  half  ounce  of  soda,  and  four  gallons  of  water.  Boil  and 
skim  the  mixture;  when  cold  pour  it  upon  the  meat,  which 
should  have  a  weight  placed  on  it  to  keep  it  down. 

TO  KEEP  EGGS. 

In  order  to  keep  well,  they  must  be  perfectly  fresh  when 
packed.     Take  a  stone  pot  which  will  hold  from  two  to  three 


232  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


gallons;  pack  the  eggs  close,  sharp  end  down  ;  take  one  pint 
of  unslaked  lime,  one  pint  of  salt;  dissolve  in  sufficient  water 
to  cover  the  eggs.  When  cold,  pour  over.  Be  sure  the  eggs 
do  not  float.     They  will  keep  all  the  year. 

ANOTHER  WAY  TO  KEEP*EGGS. 

Have  a  cloth  bag  that  will  hold  about  one  dozen  eggs;  im- 
merse them  in  boiling  water  for  any  time  less  than  half  a  min- 
ute, and  you  can  keep  the  eggs  as  long  as  you  please. 

ESSENCE  OF  GINGER. 

Beat  in  a  mortar  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  race  ginger ; 
put  in  a  jar,  and  pour  over  it  one  quart  of  best  alcohol.  Al- 
low it  to  stand  three  weeks;  then  strain  and  bottle. 

VANILLA  EXTRACT. 

Five  vanilla-beans  cut  up  and  two  bruised;  pour  over  these 
one  half  pint  of  alcohol.  Allow  it  to  steep  till  the  strength 
is  extracted,  and  bottle. 

TO  MAKE  CREAM. 

Mix  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  flour,  the  well-beaten  yelks  of 
two  eggs,  one  tea-spoonful  of  sugar;  pour  on  gradually  one 
pint  of  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  lumps. 
A  small  bit  of  butter  is  sometimes  added.  For  coffee,  beat 
the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  froth ;  pour  the  coffee  gradually,  that 
it  may  not  curdle. 

TO  REMOVE  MILDEW. 

Wet  the  garment;  soap  well;  scrape  common  chalk  on  the 
place  until  a  thick  paste  is  formed ;  expose  to  the  hot  sun. 

ANOTHER  WAY  TO  REMOVE  MILDEW. 

Take  two  ounces  of  chloride  of  lime;  pour  on  it  one  quart 
of  hot  water;  then  add  three  quarts  of  cold  water.  Steep 
the  linen  in  this  for  twelve  hours,  when  every  spot  will  be 
removed. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  233 


ANOTHER  WAY  TO  REMOVE  MILDEW. 

Darby's  Prophylactic  Fluid  is  equally  efficacious  in  remov- 
ing mildew  and  some  kinds  of  fruits-tains. 

TO  RENEW  ALPACA. 

Black  alpacas  may  be  restored  to  their  first  beauty  by  using 
a  thimbleful  of  borax  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  warm  water,  and 
put  on  with  a  nail-brush. 

TO  TAKE  OUT  GREASE. 

One  table-spoonful  of  alcohol  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  harts- 
horn. 

TO  REMOVE  STAINS  FROM  SILK,  LINEN,  OR  COTTO'N. 

,  Four  table-spoonfuls  of  spirits  of  ammonia,  four  of  alcohol, 
and  one  of  salt;  shake  the  whole  well  in  a  bottle,  and  apply 
with  a  sponge  or  tooth-brush.  This  will  remove  ink,  paint, 
fruit  or  acid  stains. 

ANOTHER  WAY  TO  REMOVE  STAINS. 

Chloroform  will  remove  paint  from  a  garment,  and  often 
restore  the  original  color. 

ANOTHER  WAY  TO  REMOVE  STAINS. 

Wine  or  fruit  stains  may  be  easily  removed  fi-om  table 
linen  by  spreading  it  tightly  over  a  bucket,  before  soap  or 
cold  water  is  applied,  and  pouring  upon  the  stained  portion  a 
stream  of  boiling  water  from  a  kettle.  Repeat  the  operation 
if  necessary. 

FOR  REMOVING  GREASE,  STAINS,  ETC. 

Two  ounces  castile  soap,  four  ounces  aqua  ammonia,  two 
drams  sal  soda,  three  drams  spirits  of  wine,  three  drams  chlo- 
roform. Cut  the  soap  fine,  and  dissolve  with  the  sal  soda  in 
one  pint  of  water;  then  add  another  pint  of  cold  water  and 
the  other  ingredients. 


234  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

TO  WASH  COLORED  RIBBONS  OR  CRAVATS. 

Make  a  strong  suds  of  cold  water  and  toilet  soap ;  wash  the 
ribbons  thoroughly  until  clean;  rinse  in  clean  soap-suds. 
Sometimes  it  is  necessary  to  rinse  several  times,  always  in 
suds.  When  partially  dry,  iron  carefully  between  cloths, 
taking  care  to  have  the  ribbon  perfectly  smooth.  If  care- 
fully done,  the  ribbon  will  look  as  good  as  new. 

TO  SET  COLORS    IN  CALICO. 

To  a  gallon  of  very  warm  (not  boiling)  water  in  a  bucket 
add  half  a  cup  of  spirits  of  turpentine.  Put  in  the  dress, 
and  see  that  it  is  well  covered  with  the  mixture;  let  it  soak 
half  an  hour  or  more.  If  convenient,  dry  it  before  washing. 
Most  colors  are  made  permanent  by  it. 

To  set  blue  or  green,  a  little  alum  should  be  added  to  the 
above  mixture. 

HOW  TO  CLEAN  BLANKETS. 

Put  two  large  table-spoonfuls  of  borax  and  a  pint  of  soft 
soap  into  a  tub  of  cold  water.  When  dissolved,  put  in  a  pair 
of  blankets,  and  let  them  remain  over  night.  The  next  day, 
rub  them  out,  and  rinse  in  two  waters.  Hang  up  to  dry 
without  wringing.  This  recipe  will  also  apply  to  the  washing 
of  all  kinds  of  flannel  and  woolen  goods;  also  of  lace  cur- 
tains.    Use  cold  water  invariably. 

FOR   CLEANSING  WOOLENS. 

One  fourth  of  a  pound  of  white  castile  soap,  one  fourth  of 
a  pound  of  ammonia  (three  ounces),  one  ounce  of  ether,  one 
once  of  spirits  of  wine.  Cut  the  soap  in  small  pieces,  and 
heat  in  one  quart  of  soft  water  until  dissolved;  then  add  four 
quarts  of  water  and  the  other  ingredients.  Bottle,  and  keep 
well  corked. 

TO  KEEP  FLANNEL  FROM  SHRINKING. 

Wash  and  rinse  in  cold  water,  and  hang  in  the  cold,  dry 


MISCELLANEOUS.  235 


air.     The  garment  will  not  shrink  or  thicken  up,  but  will 
continue  soft  and  thin  to  the  last.     Never  use  warm  water. 

POMATUM. 

One  heaping  table-spoonful  of  lard,  melted  ;  two  of  castor- 
oil  ;  two  square  inches  of  white  wax.  Perfume  with  berga- 
mot  while  cooling,  and  stir  until  cool. 

A  GOOD  TOOTH-WASH 

Dissolve  two  ounces  of  borax  in  three  pints  of  boiling 
water,  and  before  it  is  cold  add  one  or  two  tea-spoonfuls  of 
camphor,  and  bottle  for  use.  A  table-spoonful  mixed  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  tepid  water,  and  applied  daily  with  a 
soft  brush,  purifies  the  teeth,  prevents  formation  of  tartar, 
and  induces  a  healthy  action  of  the  gums. 

TO  REMOVE    FRECKLES. 

Fifteen  grains  of  borax,  one  ounce  of  lemon-juice,  one 
dram  of  rock-candy.  Mix  all  together,  shaking  occasionally 
till  dissolved. 

TO  REMOVE  TAN  AND  SUNBURN. 

Six  drams  of  powdered  borax,  three  fourths  of  an  ounce  of 
pure  glycerine,  twelve  ounces  of  rose-water ;  mix,  and  use 
daily  as  a  cosmetic. 

ANOTHER  WAY  TO  REMOVE  TAN  AND  SUNBURN. 

The  irritation  from  sunburn  may  be  allayed  by  washing 
with  a  solution  of  carbonate  of  soda  and  water. 

HOW  TO  SAVE  YOUR  SHOE-SOLES. 

Melt  together  tallow  and  common  rosin  in  the  proportion 
of  two  parts  of  the  former  to  one  of  the  latter,  and  apply  the 
preparation  hot  to  the  solos  of  the  boots  or  shoes, — as  much 
of  it  as  the  leather  will  absorb. 


236  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK.. 


TO  STIFFEN  COLLARS. 

A  little  gum  arable  and  common  soda  added  to  starch  gives 
extreme  stiffness  and  gloss  to  shirt-bosoms  and  collars. 

DURABLE  STOVE-BLACKING. 

By  adding  a  tea-spoonful  of  pulverized  alum  to  half  a 
package  of  stove-polish,  wet  with  a  little  water,  much  time 
and  labor  will  be  saved.  It  should  be  applied  when  the  stove 
is  nearly  cold,  and  rubbed  with  a  dry  brush  until  it  is  dry 
and  shiny. 

TO  CLEAN  A  BROWNED  PORCELAIN    KETTLE. 

Boil  peeled  Irish  potatoes  in  it.  The  porcelain  will  be 
rendered  nearly  as  white  as  when  new. 

TO  POLISH  FLAT-IRONS. 

If  they  are  rough  or  smoky,  lay  a  little  fine  salt  on  a  board 
and  rum  them  well.  It  will  smooth  the  irons,  and  keep  them 
from  sticking,  . 

EGG  STAINS  FROM  SILVER. 

To  remove  stains  on  spoons,  caused  by  using  them  with 
boiled  eggs,  take  a  little  common  salt,  moisten  between  the 
thumb  and  finger,  and  briskly  rub  the  stain,  which  will  soon 
disappear. 

FOR  CLEANING  KNIVES. 

Rub  the  knife  with  sliced  Irish  potato  dipped  in  knife-brick, 
and  ordinary  stains  will  be  easily  removed. 

TO  CLEAN  MARBLE. 

Take  two  parts  of  common  soda,  one  part  of  pumice-stone, 
and  one  part  of  finely-powdered  chalk;  sift  through  a  sieve, 
and  mix  with  water ;  then  rub  it  well  over  the  marble.  Aft- 
er a  few  minutes,  wash  the  marble  with  cold  water. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  237 


SWEEPING. 

Wet  the  broom  about  once  a  week  in  boiling  soap-suds;  it 
will  last  longer  and  sweep  better.  Sprinkle  a  handful  of 
salt  on  the  carpet  while  sweeping,  and  it  will  lessen  the  dust 
as  well  as  brighten  the  colors.  Moistened  cornmeal  sprinkled 
on  the  carpet  while  sweeping  will  have  the  same  effect ;  also 
tea-leaves. 

A  GOOD  PASTE. 

Make  a  paste  of  flour;  boil  as  you  would  starch,  only  for  a 
longer  time,  so  that  it  will  be  quite  thick  and  well  cooked. 
To  a  pint  of  paste  add,  while  boiling,  a  table-spoonful  of  pul- 
verized alum. 

SEALING  FOR  BOTTLES. 

Nineteen  ounces  of  resin,  one  ounce  of  bees-wax.  Color 
with  Venetian  red. 

WHITEWASH. 

Take  a  clean,  tight  barrel,  and  slake  one  bushel  of  lime  by 
covering  it  with  hot  water.  After  it  is  slaked,  add  cold  water 
enough  to  make  it  of  the  consistency  of  cream,  or  thick  white- 
wash. Then  dissolve  in  water  one  pound  of  sulphate  of 
zinc  (white  vitriol),  and  add  to  the  lime  and  water,  with  one 
quart  of  fine  salt;  stir  wefl  until  the  ingredients  are  well 
mixed.  This  wash  is  pure  white.  If  a  cream-colored  wash 
is  desired,  add  half  a  pound  of  yellow  ocher. 

BRILLIANT  WHITEWASH. 

Take  half  a  bushel  of  unslaked  lime;  slake  with  boiling 
water,  covering  it  during  the  process  to  keep  in  the  steam. 
Strain  through  a  fine  sieve  or  strainer,  and  add  a  peck  of 
salt  previously  well  dissolved  in  warm  water,  three  pounds 
of  ground  rice  boiled  to  a  thin  paste,  arfd  stirred  in  boiling 
hot,  half  a  pound  of  powdered  Spanish  whiting,  and  a  pound 
of  clean  glue  which  has  been  previously  dissolved  by  soak- 


238  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK . 

ing  it  well  and  then  hanging  it  over  a  slow  fire  in  a  small  ket- 
tle within  a  larger  one  filled  with  water.  Add  five  gallons  of 
hot  water  to  the  mixture ;  stir  well,  and  let  it  stand  a  few 
days  covered  from  the  dust.  It  should  be  put  on  quite  hot; 
for  this  purpose,  it  may  be  kept  in  a  kettle  on  a  portable  fur- 
nace. It  is  said  that  a  pint  of  this  mixture  will  cover  a  square 
yard  of  the  outside  of  a  house,  if  properly  applied.  Brushes 
more  or  less  small  may  be  used,  according  to  the  neatness  of  the 
work  required.  It  answers  as  well  as  oil-paint  for  wood,  brick, 
or  stone,  and  is  cheaper.  It  retains  its  brilliance  for  years, 
and  is  superior  to  all  other  whitewashes,  for  inside  or  outside 
walls.  Coloring-matter  may  be  put  in,  and  the  wash  made 
of  any  shade  you  like.  Spanish  brown  stirred  in  will  make 
it  red-pink,  more  or  less  deep  according  to  the  quantity.  A 
delicate  tinge  of  this  is  very  pretty  for  inside  walls.  Finely 
pulverized  common  clay  well  mixed  with  Spanish  brown 
makes  a  reddish  stone-color.  Yellow  ocher  makes  a  yellow 
wash ;  but  chrome  yellow  goes  further,  and  makes  a  color 
generally  esteemed  prettier.  Green  must  not  be  used  ;  the 
lime  destroys  the  color,  and  it  tends  to  make  the  whitewash 
crack  and  peel  off.  If  you  desire  to  clean  a  smoked  wall  and 
make  it  white,  squeeze  indigo  plentifully  through  a  bag  into 
the  water  you  use,  before  it  is  stirred  into  the  whole  mixture. 
If  a  larger  quantity  than  five  gallons  is  required,  the  same 
proportions  should  be  observed. 

TO  DESTROY  BED-BUGS. 

Take  one  ounce  of  quicksilver;  beat  up  in  the  white  of  one 
etri;: :  apply  with  a  feather.  Be  careful  not  to  let  it  touch 
your  finger-rings,  or  anything  metallic,  as  the  quicksilver 
will  adhere  to  it. 

Another  method  of  exterminating  these  repulsive  insects 
is  to  take  grease  melted  out  of  salt  pork,  and  apply  with  a 
feather  to  every  place  where  they  can  hide.  Some  persons 
use  salt-water  to  wash  the  bedstead,  and  sprinkle  salt  in  the 
cracks. 


MISCELLANEOUS.  239 


TO  DESTROY  RED  ANTS. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  flour  of  brimstone  and  four  ounces 
of  jxttask  ;  put  them  over  the  fire  until  united;  then  beat  to 
a  powder.  Infuse  a  little  of  the  powder  in  water,  and  wher- 
ever you  sprinkle  it  the  ants  will  die  or  fly  the  place. 

COCKROACH  DESTROYER,      y 

Finely-powdered  borax  sprinkled  freely  in  the  crevices,  or 
wherever  the  roaches  are  found,  will  exterminate  them.  Con- 
tinue for  a  few  weeks,  repeating  the  sprinkling  every  few 
days.     It  will  not  fail. 

COLIC  IN  HORSES. 
Give  one  table-spoonful  of  chloroform  in  one  pint  of  gruel. 
REMEDY  FOR  BOTTS  IN  HORSES. 

Make  a  strong  decoction  of  tansy  leaves  in  hot  water. 
Drench  the  horse  with  about  a  quart  of  this.  In  about  three 
hours  follow  with  a  dose  of  castor-oil — a  small  tea-cupful. 

REMEDY  FOR  SICK  TURKEY. 

When  young  turkeys  seem  sick  or  drooping,  give  each  one 
a  small  pill  of  tar,  and  after  this  a  teaspoonful  of  brandy  or 
whisky. 

TONIC  FOR  CHICKENS. 

The  "Douglas  Mixture"  is  a  good  constant  tonic,  and  is 
made  thus:  One  pound  of  sulphate  of  iron,  two  ounces  of 
sulphuric  acid,  one  gallon  of  water;  mix,  and  dissolve. 
Dose:  One  to  two  tea-spoonfuls  to  a  pint  of  drinking-water 
for  chickens. 

WOUNDS  IN  CATTLE. 

These  are  quickly  cured  by  washing  several  times  a  day 
with  the  yelks  of  eggs  and  spirits  of  turpentine. 


240  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


TO  OBTAIN  A  LARGE  YIELD  OF  MILK. 

Give  your  cow  three  times  a  day  water  slightly  warm  and 
slightly  salted,  in  which  bran  has  been  stirred  at  the  rate  of 
one  quart  to  two  gallons  of  water.  You  will  find  that  your 
cow  will  gain  twenty-five  per  cent  immediately,  and  will  be- 
come so  fond  of  the  diet  as  to  refuse  to  drink  clear  water  un- 
less very  thirsty;  but  this  mess  she  will  drink  at  almost  any 
time,  and  ask  for  more.  The  amount  of  this  drink  given  is 
an  ordinary  water-bucketful  at  each  time — morning,  noon, 
and  night. 

TO  TAKE  OUT  VARNISH,  TAR,  AND  PAINT. 

Spirits  of  turpentine,  benzine,  or  butter,  washing  out  after- 
ward with  butter. 

To  extract  resin  and  turpentine  stains;  use  best  alcohol. 

TO  CLEAN  OIL-PAINTINGS. 

The  following  is  taken  from  the  New  York  Tribune,  which 
in  turn  copied  it  from  The  Atlantic.  It  can  be  recommended, 
as  it  has  been  tried  with  most  gratifying  results : 

Pettenkofer,  of  Munich,  discovered  the  process,  and  was 
awarded  by  the  king  of  Bavaria  with  a  gift  of  one  hundred 
thousand  francs. 

Wash  the  picture  gently,  if  it  is  dirty  on  the  surface,  with 
water  and  a  sponge,  and  wipe  quite  dry  with  a  soft  cloth. 
Then  take  a  wad  of  cotton-wool  in  each  hand,  one  wet  with 
spirits  of  turpentine,  and  one  dry,  and  gently  rub  the  surface 
a  bit  at  a  time  with  the  wet  cotton,  and  dry  it  with  the  other, 
changing  the  cotton  as  often  as  it  gets  dirty.  Then  get  a 
a  box  (made  of  wood  for  large  pictures;  card-board  will  an- 
swer for  very  small  ones,)  a  little  larger  than  the  stretching- 
frame,  and  about  three  inches'and  a  half  deep.  On  the  bot- 
tom, inside,  place  a  layer  of  cotton  batting  or  coarse  blotting- 
paper  half  an  inch  thick  or  less,  and  fasten  it  down  with 
tacks  or  cross  strings,  so  that  it  will  remain  in  place  when 


MISCELLANEOUS.  241 


the  box  is  inverted.  Lay  the  picture  on  the  floor  or  a  table, 
face  upward  Saturate  the  cotton  or  paper  with  strong  al- 
cohol, making  it  quite  wet,  but  not  so  as  to  drip;  and  then 
turn  the  box  upside  down  over  the  picture.  Being  a  little 
larger  than  the  picture  each  way,  the  box  will  not  touch  it,  but 
will  rest  with  its  edges  on  the  table  or  floor.-  The  fumes  of 
the  alcohol  will  dissolve  the  varnish,  penetrate  the  old  coats 
of  it,  and  clarify  the  whole. 

After  the  first  quarter  of  an  hour,  it  is  well  to  raise  the 
box  a  little,  and  make  sure  that  the  paper  or  cotton  does  not 
touch  the  picture,  and  that  the  alcohol  is  not  dripping  or 
running  down.  The  box  is  to  be  replaced,  and  left  for  about 
an  hour.  When  it  is  lifted  off  again,  if  the  surface  be  as 
soft  and  even  and  the  varnish  as  clear  as  when  just  applied,  the 
operation  is  finished.  If  parts  are  still  rough  or  clouded,  the 
spirits  should  be  renewed,  and  the  box  put  on  again  for  half 
an  hour,  or  an  hour  more,  and  then  the  picture  may  be  left 
to  dry,  like  any  newly-varnished  one.  It  may  be  stood  up 
while  drying,  as  less  likely  to  collect  dust. 


\ 


FURNITURE  POLISH. 


One  pint  spirits  of  turpentine,  half  pint  of  sweet-oil,  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour. 

COKER'S  FURNITURE  POLISH. 

Twenty  one  ounces  of  alcohol,  one  ounce  of  oxalic  acid,  two 
ounces  of  gum  shellac,  fourteen  ounces  of  linseed-oil.  two 
ounces  of  white  resin,  two  ounces  of  gum  benzine.  Dissolve 
the  gums  and  acids  in  the  alcohol,  and  let  it  remain  twenty- 
four  hours;  then  add  the  linseed-oil. 

TO  REMOVE  WHITE  SPOTS  FROM  FURNITURE. 

A  hot  shovel  held  over  varnished  furniture  will  take  out 

the  white  spots. 
16 


942  GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 

TO  CRYSTALLIZE  GRASSES. 

Take  one  pound  of  the  best  alum,  pound  it  quite  fine,  and 
dissolve  it  in  a  quart  of  clear  water;  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 
Take  a  deep  jar  or  pitcher,  and  suspend  the  grasses  in  it 
by  a  string  from  a  stick  laid  across  the  top.  When  the  solu- 
tion is  milk-warm,  pour  it  over  the  grasses,  cover  it  up,  and 
let  it  stand  for  twenty-four  hours.  Then  take  them  out  care- 
fully, and  let  them  hang  until  perfectly  dry. 

For  blue  crystals,  use  a  saturated  solution  of  sulphate  of 
copperas  in  hot  water.  For  yellow  crystals,  use  the  yellow 
prussiate  of  potash;  for  ruby,  the  red  prussiate  of  potash. 

ERASIVE  SOAP. 

Two  ounces  of  aqua  ammonia,  one  ounce  of  white  shaving- 
soap,  one  tea-spoonful  of  saltpeter,  one  quart  of  soft  water. 
This  recipe  is  worth  ten  dollars  annually  to  any  family  that 
will  try  it.     The  cost  is  trifling. 

GOOD  HARD  SOAP. 

Pour  twelve  quarts  of  soft  water  boiling  upon  five  pounds 
of  unslaked  lime;  then  dissolve  five  pounds  of  washing-soda 
in  twelve  quarts  of  boiling  water.  Mix  the  above  together, 
and  let  it  stand  from  twelve  to  twenty-four  hours  for  chemical 
action.  Now  pour  off  all  the  clear  liquid,  being  careful  not 
to  disturb  the  sediment.  Add  to  this  three  and  a  half  pounds 
of  clear  grease  and  three  or  four  pounds  of  resin.  Boil  this 
compound  one  hour,  and  pour  off  to  cool ;  then  cut  into  bars. 

SOFT  SOAP. 

To  one  pound  of  concentrated  lye  add  three  gallons  of  soft 
water.  Let  it  stand  ten  or  twelve  hours;  then  boil  a  few 
minutes.  Add  thx-ee  pounds  of  clear  grease;  boil  until  the 
mass   is  transparent,   and   all  the  grease   has   disappeared 


MISCELLANEOUS,  243 


Now  add  twelve  gallons  of  soft  water,  boil  a  few  minutes, 
and  the  soap  will  be  ready  for  use.  When  cold  it  should  be 
a  perfect  jelly.  If  too  thick,  add  water  until  of  the  consist- 
ency desired. 


THE  INDEX. 


245 


THE    INDEX. 


Socps 5 

Corn 5 

Chicken 8 

Clam *. 10 

Cubion 11 

Dauphine 12 

Egg-balls  for  soup 11 

Gopher 13 

Gumbo 12 

Gumbo,  Chou 13 

Gumbo,  Crab 13 

Gumbo,  Okra 12 

Gumbo,  Oyster 13 

Gumbo,  to  prepare  file'  for 13 

Green  Pea,  No.  1 6 

Green  Pea,  No.  2 6 

Gravy 10 

Okra 5 

Oyster,  No.  1 8 

Oyster,  No.  2 9 

Ox-tail 8 

Red-fish 11 

Split  Pea 7 

Scotch  Broth 8 

Tomato 6 

Tomato,  without  moat 6 

Turtle 9 

Turtle,  Mock 10 

Vegetable,  without  meat 7 

Vegetable,  for  winter  use 7 

Fish.  Crabs.  Etc 15 

'A  la  Creme.  No.  1 18 

>A  la  Creme,  No.  4 18 

B-iled 16 

Baked.  No.  1  17 

Baked.  No.  2 17 

Halls,   fresh    20 

Balls.  Cod  No.  1  21 

Balls.  Cod.  No.  2 21 

Cod,  boiled 15 

Court  Bouillon 16 

19 
20 
21 
22 
22 


Chowder,  No.  1. 

Chowder,  No.  2 

Crabs,  stewed,  No.  1 
Crabs,  stewed,  No.  2.. 
Crabs,  stewed.  No.  3. 


Crabs,  fricasseed 22 


PAGE. 

Crab-omelet 23 

Cubion,  Mary's 17 

Eels,  fried. 21 

Fried,  with  sauce 16 

How   freshened 20 

Pudding 20 

Red,   boiled 15 

Red-Snapoer,  baked 18 

Red  Snapper,  fried 16 

Stewed 17 

Stewed,  with  oysters 15 

Scalloped 19 

Shrimp,  stewed  with  tomatoes 24 

Shrimp-salad 24 

Shrimp,  to  pot 24 

Terrapin,  Mock 23 

Terrapin,  stewed,  No.  1 23 

Terrapin,  stewed,  No.  2 24 

Terrapin  au  Gratin 24 

Turbot  a  la  Creme 19 

Oystkrs 26 

Broiled 29 

Fri.d,  No.  1 26 

Fried.  No.  2 26 

French,  stewed 26 

Frank's,  stewed 27 

Fritters,  No.  1 28 

Fritters,  No.  2 28 

Loaves 26 

Minced 28 

Macaroni  and  Oysters 30 

Nice  way  to  cook 29 

Patties 28 

Pie 28 

Pickled,  No.  1 30 

Pickled.  No.  2 30 

Stewed,  No.  1 7 

Stewed,  No.  2 27 

Stewed,  No.  3,  for  a  Pie 27 

Sausage    29 

Scalloped 29 

Steamed. 3D 

.    Soups  and  Gumbo 31 

With  fricasseed  chicken  29 

Meats,  Poultry,  Etc 32 

Beef,  roast 37 

Beef,  spiced 38 


246 


GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


PAGE. 

Meats,  Poultry.  Etc.— Continued. 

Beef,  corned 38 

Beef-cakes 40 

Beef-heels 41 

Beef,  to  collar  a  flank  of. 38 

Beefsteak,  how  to  cook 40 

Beefsteak,  smothered 39 

Beefsteak,  fried,  No.  1 39 

Beefsteak,  fried.  No.  2 39 

Bceuf,  'a  la  mode 37 

Brains,  stewed 48 

Brains,  fried 48 

Bird-pie 51 

Brunswick  Stew 55 

Barbecue 58 

Chicken,  boiled 51 

Chicken  Pot-pie 52 

Chicken  Pie,  with  eggs 52 

Chicken,  broiled 52 

Chicken,  to  cook  an  old  one 52 

Chicken,  to  fry 53 

Chicken,  va  la  mange 53 

Chicken  Fricassee 53 

Chicken,  Fricassee,  with  apple 53 

Chicken,  'a  la  Brunswick 54 

Chicken,  jellied 55 

Chicken,  to  cook  like  terrapin 56 

Chicken,  nice  way  to  cook 54 

Croquettes,  to  make 57 

Croquettes.  Chicken 56 

Calf's-head,  stuffed 45 

Ducks,  Canvas-back 50 

Ducks,  Mock 50 

Ducks,  Wild 50 

Fricadels 35 

Force-meat  Balls 40 

Frogs,  to  cook 59 

Frogs,  stewed 59 

Goose,  roast 49 

Ham,  to  boil 32 

Ham,  fresh  pork,  to  boil 32 

Ham,  baked 33 

Ham,  baked,  stuffed 33 

Ham,  deviled 36 

Hash,  dry 41 

Hash,  with  gravy 41 

Hunter's  Round 37 

Irish  stew 42 

Jam  Bolaya 57 

Kidneys,  fried 48 

Kidneys,  stewed 48 

Liver,  fried 47 

Mutton,  boiled 41 

Mutton,  roast 41 

Mutton,  hashed 42 

Mutton-chops,  fried 42 

Pig,  roast.  No.  1 33 

Pig.  roast,  No.  2 34 

Pigs-feet,  fried 36 

Pan  Hams 36 

Pressed  Veal  or  Beef 43 

Pie  of  Sweet-bread  and  Oysters 47 

Poulet  'a  la  marange 54 

Pillau 56 

Rich  Amelia 43 

Squirrel,  stewed 59 

Squirrel,  broiled 59 


PACE. 

Sausage _ 35 

Sausage-meat,    baked 35 

Sausage,  French 35 

Stuffed-steaks,  baked 39 

Sweet-bread,  veal 46 

Sweet-bread,  fried,  No.  1 46 

Sweet-bread,  fried,  No.  2 46 

Sweet-bread,  stewed 47 

Sweet  bread,  baked 47 

Salmis  of  cold  game— goose  or  duck  50 

Squabs 51 

Smoked-meat  on  Toast 36 

Tongue,  smoked 48 

Tongue,  baked,  with  tomato  sauce  48 

Tripe,  fried 49 

Tripe,  stewed 49 

Turkey,  Roast 49 

Turkey  Gelatine 55 

Veal   Bouilli        45 

Veal,  Confederate 43 

Veal  Cutlets 44 

Veal.  Cutlets,  fried 44 

Veal  Loaf 42 

Veal  Olives ■•  43 

Veal  Omelet 45 

Veal,  Welton 45 

Venison,  'a  la  mode 57 

Venison,  haunch  of. 57 

Venison  Steaks 58 

Eggs 61 

'A  la  creme 63 

Baked 62 

Boiled 61 

Balls,  for  soup 63 

Fried 62 

Egg-toast,  fried 64 

Omelet 6] 

Omelet  Souffle' 63 

Omelet,  with  ham 63 

Poached 61 

Pickled 68 

Scrambled 61 

Shirred 62 

Stuffed 62 

Toast 61 

To  test 64 

Salads v 65 

Chicken,  No.  1 .'. 65 

Chicken,  No.  2 65 

Chicken,  No.  3 66 

Chicken,  dressing  for 66 

Deviled  Turkey 70 

Ham  Toast 70 

Italian 67 

Lobster 66 

Oyster 68 

Potato 66 

Potato,  Irish 66 

Solferino 67 

Salmon 68 

Sandwiches 70 

Sandwiches,  Ham :  70 

Salad  Cream 69 

Salad  Dressing 67 

Slaw,  cold 69 

Slaw,  celery,  No-  1 69 

Slaw,  celery,  No.  2 70 


THE  INDEX. 


247 


PAGE. 

Salads.— Continued.  • 

Slaw,  dressing  for 70 

Slaw,  hot 69 

Slaw,  warm 69 

Tomato  and  Potato 67 

Sauces  FOR  Fish  and  Metis 71 

Browning    sugar    for    soups     and 

sauoes 75 

Cranberry 72 

Caper 73 

Celery 74 

Curry  Powder 74 

Drawn  Butter 75 

Egg 75 

Fish 71 

For  fish 71 

Horse-radish 74 

Mayonnaise  72 

Mushroom 73 

Mint,  for  lamb 72 

Onion,  No-  1 73 

Onion,  No,  2 73 

Piquant ••  72 

Tartar 71 

Tomato 74 

To  melt  butter 74 

Venison 72 

With  oysters  for  fish 71 

Vegetables 76 

Asparagus 76 

Artichokes.  Burr 76 

Beans,  string 76 

Beans,  dry,  to  bake •• 77 

Beets  • 77 

Cabbage .77 

Cabbage,  'Etoufe 78 

Cabbage,  stuffed 78 

Cabbage,  hot  dressing  for 79 

Corn,  fried 79 

Corn,  green,  pudding 79 

Corn,  green,  pudding,  with  chicken  79 

Corn  Patties 79 

Carrots 80 

Cauliflower 80 

Cauliflower  Omelet 80 

Cucumbers,  large  yellow,  to  bake..  87 

Egg-plant,  baked 81 

Egg-plant,  fried 80 

Egg-plant,  fried 81 

Ectrs  and  Tomatoes 91 

Figs,  fried. 86 

Grits 81 

Hominy 81 

Macaroni,  baked 91 

Macaroni,  witfc  eggs 92 

Macaroni  and  Tomatoes 91 

Mushrooms 81 

Mushrooms,  broiled 82 

Okra,  to  boil 82 

Okra,  fried 82 

Okra,  stewed 82 

Onions 82 

Onions,  fried 83 

Onion  Omelet 83 

Onions,  stewed- 82 

Onion  Pudding 83 

Parsnips 83 


PAGE. 

Parsnips,  fried S3 

Parsnip  Fritters 83 

Plantains 83 

Potatoes si 

Potatoes,  'a  la  creme 85 

Potato  Balls,  No.  1 85 

Potato  Halls.  No.  2 85 

Potatoes,  baked So 

Potatoes,  mashed  with  onions 85 

Potatoes,  mashed  with  turnips 85 

Potatoes,  new s( 

Potatoes,  Saratoga,  to  fry s,; 

Potatoes,  Sweet,  boiled S7 

Potatoes.  Sweet,  baked 87 

Potatoes,  Sweet,  sliced  and  baked...  88 

Potatoes,  Sweet,  to  fry 88 

Peas,  Green 86 

Peas.  Green,  with  mint 86 

Rice,  to  boil 87 

Rice  Croquettes 87 

Sprouts,  Brussels 77 

Succotash 79 

Salsify,  to  stew 88 

Salsify  Patties 88 

Spinach 98 

Squash,  boiled 89 

Squash  Fritters 89 

Squash,   fried 89 

Turnips,  mashed 89 

Turnips,  whole 

Tomatoes 90 

Tomatoes,  broiled 90 

Tomatoes,  baked .11 

Tomatoes,   fried 91 

Tomatoes,  scalloped 90 

Tomatoes,    stuffed 90 

Tomatoes,  Spanish  way  to  cook v)l 

Bread,  Biscuit,  Etc 93 

Bread 95 

Bread,  light 96 

Bread.  Graham,  excellent 07 

Bread,  Graham,  No.  1 97 

Bread,  Graham,  No.  2 98 

Bread.  Rye 98 

Bread.  St.  James liil 

Biscuit 99 

Biscuit,  cream  of  tartar 99 

Biscuit,  Cream 100 

Biscuit  Rolls  for  tea ]00 

Biscuit,  Split ioo 

Biscuit,  with  yeast ioo 

Biscuit,  yeast  powder '.100 

Bannocks ]03 

Buckwheat  Cakes ."]06 

Buckwheats,  Duke's ]05 

Cakes,  Batter "iQ7 

Cakes,  Breakfast .\§~l 

Cakes,  Corn .'...107 

Cakes,  Flannel,  No.  1 ..!"l06 

Cakes,  Flannel,  No,  2 ...".107 

Cakes.  Flannel,  No.  3 ."'.".107 

Crackers- .....105 

Crack  nells ."".".105 

Corn-bread  ........108 

Corn-bread,  Owendon ..107 

Corn-bread,  plain ....109 

Corn-bread,  Rice ...........108 


248 


GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


PAGH. 

Bread,  Biscuit,  Etc.— Continued. 

Corn-bread,  Sweet-potato 108 

Crumpets,  No.  1 103 

Crumpets,  No.  2 103 

Deceptions 102 

Ferment  for  bread 93 

Fritters,  Bell 101 

Graham  Gems 97 

Hominy  Breakfast  Drops 102 

Indian-bread,  St.  Charles 108 

Muffins,  No.  1 103 

Muffins,  No.  2 103 

Muffin  Bread,  St.  Charles 104 

Muffins,  Cream 104 

Muffins,  without  eggs 104 

Pa  poos 102 

Puffs,  Breakfast 101 

Puffs,  Colonnade 102 

Pocket-books 96 

Bolls  and  Light-bread _  94 

Rolls,   Light 95 

Rolls,  Parker  House 95 

Rolls,  Swiss 96 

Rolls,  Graham 97 

Rusk,  No.  1 98 

Rusk,  No.  2 98 

Sally  Lunn 99 

Sally  Lunn,  Healing  Springs 99 

Turn-overs 102 

Toast,  Cream 106 

Toast,    French 106 

Waffles,  No.  1 104 

Waffles,  No.  2 104 

Waffles,  No.  3- 104 

Waffles.  No.  4 104 

Waffles,  Sweet  Potato 105 

Wafers 105 

Yeast,  Hop 93 

Yeast,  Milk,  for  bread 93 

Yeast,  Potato 94 

Yeast,  Potato 95 

Yeast,  Stock :....  93 

General  Directions  fob  Cake 110 

Almond 125 

Angel's  Food 122 

Beverly 126 

Cup,  No.  1 118 

Cup,  No.  2 118 

Cup.  No.  3 119 

Cup,  Cream 119 

Cup,  Coffee 110 

Cup,  Chocolate 119 

Cup,  White 119 

Chocolate,  No.  1 121 

Chocolate,  No.  2 121 

ChocolateCream 133 

Cocoa-nut,  No.  1 121 

Cocoa-nut^  No.  2 121 

Cream 122 

Cream 123 

Cream,  for  dessert 123 

Cream,  Boston 123 

Corn-starch 114 

Corn-starch 126 

Cold,  No.  1 116 

Cold,  No.  2 116 

Currant 128 


PAGE. 

Crullers,  No.  1., 131 

Crullers.  No.  2 131 

Crullers,  No.  3 131 

Crullers    No.  4 „.131 

Delicate,  No.  1 117 

Delicate,  No.  2 ]1S 

Doughnuts. _ 131 

Fruit,  No.  1 110 

Fruit,  No.  2 HI 

Fruit,  No.  3 Ill 

Fruit,  Cup 113 

Fruit,  White.  No.  1 112 

Fruit,  White,  No.  2 112 

Fruit,  White,  No.  3 112 

Francis 127 

Fascinators 129 

Ginger,  Soft,  No.  1 130 

Ginger,  Soft,  No.  2 130 

Ginger,  Hard 130 

Ginger,  Sugar 131 

Ginger-snaps.  No.  1 130 

Ginger-snaps,  No.  2 130 

Ginger-snaps,  No.  3 130 

Graham 126 

Gold,  No.  1 116 

Gold,  No.  2 116 

Hickory-nut 125 

Imperial 127 

Icing 133 

Icing,  boiled 132 

Icing,  cold,  No.  1 133 

Icing,  cold.  No.  2 133 

Icing,  Chocolate 133 

Irene 126 

Jelly 119 

Jelly,  Roll 120 

Jelly,  Lemon 120 

Lady,  No.  1 US 

Lady.  No.  2 118 

Lady-lingers 116 

Loaf 112 

Mountain 120 

Marble.  No.  1 .' 124 

Marble.  No.  2 124 

Measure. 127 

Macaroons,  Chocolate 132 

One-egg 128 

Orange 122 

Piper 128 

Pound,  No.  1 .' 113 

Pound.  No.  2 113 

Pound,  No.  3 113 

Pound,  No.  4 113 

Pound,  No.  5 114 

Pound,  No.  6 114 

Pound.  Ginger •. 129 

Pound,   White 114 

Queen 126 

Sponge,  No.  1 114 

Sponge,  No.  2 IT.. 

Sponge.  No.  3 1)5 

Sponge.  No.  4 115 

Sponge 116 

Sponge,  Boiled 115 

Sponge,  Cheap 115 

Sponge,  Hot-water .115 

Sponge,  Croton 127 


THE  INDEX. 


249 


PAGE. 

Cake.— Continued. 

Sponge  Layer 120 

Sponge,  White 115 

Spice 125 

Spice,  Molasses 125 

Silver,  No.  1 117 

Silver,  No.  2.-. 117 

Silver,  No.  3 117 

Soda,  No.  1 127 

Soda,  No.  2 127 

Sugar,  without  eggs 12^ 

Sugar  ICisses 132 

Turban 128 

Tea,  No.  1 128 

Tea,  No.  2 129 

Tea,  No.  3 129 

Tea,  Soft 129 

Without  eggs 128 

Wafers,  Sweet.  No.  1 132 

Wafers,  Sweet,  No.  2 132 

Wafers,  Sweet,  No.  3 ....132 

Washington 126 

Wedding Ill 

Pies   135 

Apple 138 

Apple,  delicious 138 

Apple-dump  lings,   boiled 137 

Apple-duuiplings,  baked 137 

Apple-duinplings,  excellent 137 

Almond 140 

Custard  Cocoa-nut 140 

Cocoa-nut,  No.  1 '. 139 

Cocoa-nut,  No.  2 140 

Dried-apple 139 

Dried- fruit 139 

Fritters,   Altona 137 

Fritters,  Potato 137 

Fruit,  in  variety 139 

General  rules  for  nastry 135 

Lemon 140 

Lemon 141 

Lemon   Cream 141 

Lemon  and  Potato 141 

Molasses 142 

Mince-meat 142 

Mince-meat,  Mock 143 

Orange 141 

Pie-crust,  plain 136 

Pumpkin 142 

Potato,  Sweet 138 

Potato.  Irish 138 

Potato-paste 136 

Puff-paste.  No.  1 135 

Puff-paste.  No.  2 136 

Pastry 136 

Pastry,  for  meat-pies 13S 

Pastry,  plain 136 

Rhubarb 139 

Sour-orange 141 

Transparent,  No.  1 142 

Transparent.  No.  2 142 

Puddings 144 

Almond,  boiled 147 

Almond,  baked 147 

Apple 148 

Apple,  excellent 148 

Apple,  nice 149 


PAGE. 

Batter,  boiled,  No.  1 145 

Batter,  boiled.  No.  2 145 

Bird's-nest 149 

Biddle 153 

Butter- in  ilk 153 

Confederate 144 

Cake. 152 

Cake,  boiled 145 

Chambliss 151 

Chocolate 154 

Cracker  Fruit 154 

Dixie. 152 

Delicious 152 

Fig 147 

General  rules 144 

Indian  Meal 152 

Jellied  Apples 155 

Lemon,  No.  1 150 

Lemon,  No.  2 150 

Molasses 153 

Macaroon 154 

Ministers' 145 

Peach 149 

Plain 152 

Plum 146 

Plum,  English 145 

Plum,  excellent 146 

Poor  Author's 153 

Potato-pone 154 

Prince  Albert 148 

Queen's 148 

Kebel 147 

Rice,  No.  1 151 

Rice,  No.  2 151 

Snew,  No.  1 154 

Snow,  No.  2 155 

Steam •. ...146 

Sponge 151 

Sponge  oaKe 147 

Sweet  potato 149 

Souffli 151 

Two-egg 153 

Tapioca 150 

Tapioca,  with  apples 14'.' 

Tapioca,  with  cocoa-nut 150 

Sweet  or  Pudding  Sauces 156 

Apple 157 

Boiled 156 

Cream 156 

For  fruits 157 

Hard 156 

Lemon 157 

Milk 156 

Pudding,  No.  1 157 

Pudding.  No.  2 157 

Plum  Pudding 157 

Sauce 157 

Wine 156 

Ices 158 

Bisque  Glace',  No.  1 162 

Bisque  Glace',  No.  2 162 

Coffee.  Frozen- 160 

Cream,  Apple,  Quince,  and  Pear 159 

Frozen  Claret 161 

Frozen  Peaches 159 

Frozen  Plum-pudding 160 

Frozen  Buttermilk 161 


250 


GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


Ices.— Continuod. 

Ice-cream,  No.  1 

Ice-cream,  No  2 

Ice-cream,  Chocolate 

Ice-cream,  Cocoa-nut 

Ice-cream,  Caramel,  No.  1., 
Ice-cream,  Caramel,  No-  2., 
Ice-cream,  Macaroon. 


...158 
...158 
...159 
...160 
...163 
...163 
...160 

lee-cream,   Queen's 158 

Ice-cream,  Strawberry 159 

Ice-cream,  Tutti-Frutti 159 

Ice-cream,  without  eggs 159 

Ice-cream,  White 160 

Italian  Snow 161 

Orange-ice 161 

Sherbet,  Lemon 161 

Sherbet,  Pine-apple 161 

.  Sherbet.  Pine-apple,  or  Ice 161 

Creams,  Jellies,  Etc 163 

Ambrosia,  No.  1 169 

Ambrosia,  No.  2 170 

Apple  Float 170 

Apple  Me'ringue 170 

Apple-Souffle 170 

Blanc-mange 165 

Blanc-mange,  Chocolate 165 

Blanc-mange.  "Neapolitan.... 165 

Boiled  Custard 171 

Baked   Apples 171 

Baked  Pears 171 

Charlotte  Russe 165 

Charlotte  Russe,  No  1 163 

Charlotte  Russe,  No  2 164 

Charlotte  Russe,  No.  3 164 

Charlotte  Russe,  without  eggs 164 

Charlotte  Russe,  without  cream 165 

Charlotte  Polonaise 169 

Cream,  Almond 167 

Cream,  Bavarian,  No.  1 168 

Cream,  Bavarian,  No.  2 168 

Cream,  Imperial 167 

Cream,  Italian,  No.  1 167 

Cream,  Italian,  No.  2 168 

Cream,  Raspberry 169 

Cream,  Spanish 169 

Cream,  to  whip 167 

Gatean  Pornmes 171 

Jelly.  Calf  or  Hog  Foot 173, 

Jelly  and  Fruit 173* 

Jelly  of  Irish  Moss 173 

Jelly.  Lemon 172 

Jelly,  Maraschino 174 

Jelly,  Wine,  No.  1 172 

Jelly.  Wine.  No.  2 173 

Porcupine 170 

Syllabub,  No.  1 166 

Syllabub.  No- 2 166 

Tipsv  cake,  No.  1 172 

Tipsy-cake,  No.  2 172 

Preserves  and  Jellies 175 

Apple 177 

Crab  apple 177 

Canteloup 181 

Figs 175 

Figs,  Blue 176 

Jam,  Blackberry 177 

Jelly,  Apple 183 


PAGE. 

Jelly,  Grape 184 

Jelly,  Plum ,...184 

Jelly,  Quince 184 

Marmalade,  Fig 176 

Marmalade,  Quince 179 

Marmalade,   Sour  orange 182 

Marmalade,  Scotch-orange 182 

Orange  peel 182 

Pear 178 

Plum 178 

Pine-apple 183 

Peaches,  Brandy ..ISO 

Peaches,  in  their  juice 179 

Peaches,  whole 180 

Peach-chips 180 

Peach- leather 181 

Pumpkin-chips LSI 

Quince 178 

Strawberry 177 

Tomato- 176 

Water-melon 179 

Water-melon  or  Citron 181 

Candy 185 

Cocoa-nut 186 

Cocoa-nut  Drops 186 

Caramels,  No.  1 186 

Caramels,  No.  2 187 

floarhound 185 

Honey  Cream 187 

Molasses 187 

Pea-nut,  No.  1 185 

Pea-nut,  No.  2 186 

Sugar.  No.  1 185 

Sugar,  No.  2 185 

Taffy 186 

Taffy.  Almond 186 

White  Nougat 187 

Catchup,  Sauces,  and  Pickles 189 

Catchup,  Cucumber 190 

Catchup,  Grape 191 

Catchup,  Pepper,  No  1 191 

Catchup.  Pepper,  No.  2. 191 

Catchup  Tomato  good 190 

Catchup,  Tomato.  No.  1 190 

Catchup,  Tomato,  No.  2 190 

Chowchow 198 

Mustard.  French 191 

Mustard,  Italian 191 

Mangoes.  Cucumber 195 

Mangoes,  Oil 194 

Mangoes,  with  oil 195 

Mangoes,  Pepper 195 

Mangoes,  Peach 196 

Pickle,  Blackberry,  sweet 192 

Pickle,  Citron,  sweet -.192 

Pickle,  Cucumber 196 

Pickle,  Cabbage.  No.  1 197 

Pickle.  Cabbage.  No.  2 197 

Pickle.   Damson 192 

Pickle,  German ...192 

Pickle.  Jerusalem  Artichoke 197 

Pickle,   Melon 194 

Pickle.  Mustard 198 

Pickle.  Onion 198 

Pickle,  Ripe  Cantaloup 194 

Pickle,  Railroad 198 

Pickle,  Regent 200 


THE  INDEX. 


251 


PAGE. 

Catchup,  Sauces.  Etc.— Continued. 

Pickle.  Sweet  Plum 194 

Pickle,  Spanish 196 

Pickle.  Walnut 197 

Pickled  Figs,  sweet.  No.  1 -192 

Pickled  Figs,  sweet,  No.  2 193 

Pickled  Peaches,  sweet 193 

Sauce,  Green  Tomato 199 

Sauce,  Pickle 199 

Vinegar 189 

Vinegar,   excellent 189 

Vinegar,  Spiced 189 

Beverages 201 

Peer,  Corn 205 

Coffee,  No.  1 201 

Coffee,  No.  2 201 

Coffee,  how  to  make 201 

Chocolate,  No-  1 202 

Chocolate,  No.  2 202 

Cream  Nectar 202 

Champaign  Cups 203 

Claret  Cup 203 

Coek-tail,  good 204 

Cordial,  Blaikberry,  No.  1 205 

Cordial,  Blackberry,  No.  2 205 

Cordial,  Blackberry,  No.  3 205 

Cordial,  Blackberry  or  Peach 206 

Cordial,  Che-rry 20(5 

Cordial,  Mint 20(3 

Egg-nog,  No.  1 203 

Egg-nog.  No.  2 _ 203 

Egg-nog.  No.  3 204 

Punch,  Milk.  No.  1 202 

Punch.  Milk.  No.  2 202 

Punch,  Milk,  hot 202 

Punch,  Prince  Regent 204 

Punch,  Roman 204 

Punch.  Whisky 204 

Pleasant  Drink,  or  Beer 205 

Sherry-cobbler, 204 

Tea,  Xo  make 201 

Wine,  Blackberry,  No.  1 207 

Wine,  Blackberry,  No.  2 207 

Wine,  Scuppernong,  No.  1 206 

Wine,  Scuppernong,  No.  2 206 

Wine,  Sour-orange,  No.  1 -....207 

Wine,  Sour-orange,  No.  2 ..207 

Comforts  for  the  Sick 208 

Alkaline  Drink 217 

Arrow-root 212 

Broth,  Chicken 209 

Broth.  Mutton 209 

Blanc-mange 211 

Claret-cup,  for  invalids 217 

Chicken-essence 209 

Custard  and  Toast 213 

Cracker  and  Cream 216 

Diet  for  Infants 215 

Kt:e-nog 211 

Flour,  boiled  215 

Flummery,  Rice 215 

•Gruel 213 

Iced  Egg 211 

Jelly,  Hartshorn 212 

Jelly,  Arrow-root 212 

Jelly,  Sago 213 

Jelly,  Lemon 216 


PAGB. 

Nutrient  Enema 211 

Panada 215 

Panada.,    another 215 

Pudding.  Bread,  No.l 2.12 

Pudding,  Bread,  No-  2 212 

Potato  Surprise 218 

Potatoes,  Mashed  ••••  ;\~ 

Sofky. ...  216 

Soup  Maigre 210 

Soup,  Egg I; 

Tapioca Jlfi 

Tea,  Beef 203 

Tea,  Bewf,  hasty 208 

Tea,  Beef  and  Chicken 210 

Tea,  Egg 209 

Tea,  Egg,  another 211 

Tea,   Flaxseed 214 

Tea,  Orange  leaf. 214 

Tea.  Malt 217 

Tea.  Sage 217 

Water.  Apple ..215 

Water,  Barley 213 

Water,  Gum-arabic 214 

Water,  Slippery-elm 214 

Water.  Toast     213 

Wine- whey 214 

Mecicixal 219 

An  excellennt  enema 225 

Antidote  for  poisons 229 

Bruises 229 

Bite  of  inseets 229 

Bone-felon,  cure  for 226 

Bleeding,  to  stop l'24 

Burns 222 

Burns.  Binkerd's  Salve  for 221 

Cough   mixtures 219 

Croup,  remedy  for 220 

Corns,  cure  for 227 

Chapped  hands  and  lips 227 

Colds  in  the  head .229 

Dysentery 223 

Earache,  cure  for 224 

Fever  and  ague,  cures  for 222 

Fainting 225 

Gardes  for  Sore-throat 221 

Hoarseness 221 

Headache 223 

Hair  tonics. 228 

Hair  tonics,  glycerine 228 

Lip-salve 227 

Liniment,  good.. 222 

Liniment,  Dr.  Pancoast's 222 

Mustard  Plaster,  to  make 225 

Night  sweat 225 

Poultice,  flaxseed .225 

Risen  Breast,  plaster  for 225 

Sty  on  the  eye,  to  cure 226 

Sprained  ankle 224 

Summer-complaint  in  infants 223 

Toothache 224 

Tetter,  cures  for 228 

Vomiting,  to  stop 223 

Whooping-cough   Sirup 220 

Warts,  to  destroy 227 

Miscellaneous _ 230 

Cleaning  Knives _ 236 

Cleaning  Woolens 234 


252 


GULF  CITY  COOK-BOOK. 


PAGE.    | 

Miscellaneous.— Continued. 

Cockroach  Destroyer ....239 

Colic  in  horses 239 

Durable  Stove-blacking 236 

Essence  of  ginger 232 

Egg-stains  from  Silver 236 

ErasiveSoap 242 

Furniture  Polish 241 

Furniture  Polish,  Coker's : 241 

Good  yeast-powder 2^1 

Good  paste 237 

Housekeeper's  alphabet 230 

Hard  Soap, good 242 

Pomatum 235 

Pickle,  for  beef 231 

Pickle,  for  ham  and  beef 231 

Remedy  for  botts  in  horses 239 

Remedy  for  sick  turkey 239 

Soft-soap 242 

Shoe-soles,  how  to  save 235 

Sweeping 237 

Sealing  for  bottles 237 

Tonic  for  chickens 239 

To  keep  eggs 231 

To  keep  eggs 232 

To  make  cream 232 

To  remove  mildew.. 232 

To  take  out  grease 233 


FACE. 

To  remove  stains  from  silk,  linen, 

and  cotton 233 

To  remove  grease,  stains,  etc 233 

To  wash  colored  ribbons 234 

To  set  colors  in  calico 234 

To  keep  flannel  from  shrinking 234 

To  remove  freckles 235 

To  remove  tan  and  sunburn 235 

To  stiffen  collars 236 

To  clean  a  browned  porcelain  ket- 
tle  236 

To  polish  flat-irons 236 

To  »lean  marble 236 

To  destroy  bed-bugs 238 

To  destroy  red  ants 239 

To  obtain  a  large  yield  of  milk 240 

To  take  out  varnish,  tar,  and  paint.240 

To  clean  oil-paintings 240 

To  remove  whito  spots  from  furni- 
ture  241 

To  crystallize  grasses .242 

To  renew  alpaca 233 

To  clean  blankets 234 

Tooth- wash,   good 235 

Vanilla  Extract 232 

Whitewash 237 

Whitewash,  brilliant 237 

Wounds  in  cattle 239 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


Every  Article  that  can  be  found  in  a  First- Class  Dry  Goods  Store. 

FITZGERALD  &  STEPHENSON, 

Importers,  Jobbers,  and  Retailers  in 

Foreign,    Fancy;  and    Domestic 

DRY    GOODS, 

North- West  Corner  of  Dauphin  and  Joachim  Streets, 
MOBILE,    ALABAMA. 

B®°  TERMS     CASH.  -&H  J8®"  SEND     US    A    TRIAL    ORDER.  =KW 

GEO.    COSTER.  G.    VAN   ANTWERP. 

GEO.  COSTER  &  CO. 

DEALERS    IN 

DRUGS  &  MEDICINES 

Fancy  Soaps,  Brushes,  Combs,  Perfumery,  Etc. 
No.  71  Dauphin  Street,  .         .  MOBILE,  ALA. 

LANDRETH'S  GARDEN  SEEDS  A  SPECIALTY. 

W.    G.    LITTLE.  J.    B.    WILKINSON. 

LITTLE,  WILKINSON  &  CO. 

WHOLESALE   DEALERS  IN 

BACON,  PORK,  LARD,  SUGAR, 

Coffee;  Molasses,  Flour,  and  Liquors, 

Nos.  58  and  60  North   Commerce  Street, 

MOBILE,  ALA. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


ireat  Southern   IHusic-Itlouse 


J".   HI.  SItTOW\ 

102  &  104  Dauphin  Street,      -      MOBILE,  ALA. 

SOLE  AGENT  FOR  THE  SALE  OF  THE 

CELEBRATED    PIANOS 

— of — 

Chickering  &  Sons, 

Steinway  &  Sons, 

Kranich  &  Bach, 

Mathushek  Piano  Co. 

And  Emerson  Piano  Co. 

PRICES  GREATLY  REDUCED. 

$750  Pianos   for  -  -  $.500. 

$650  llanos   for  -  -  $375. 

$600  Pianos    for  -  •  $350. 

$500  Piano*   for  -  -  $275. 

All  of  the  Above  are  Warranted  for  Seven  Years. 


CABINET    ORGANS. 

l*£a.soxi  <Sc  Ham  j  in.  Organs, 

Felo\xT6et,  2Peltoxi  cSs  Co.  Orgraaae, 

OlovLg-la.  <£a  "VT'a.rrexs.   Oigazis, 

Htf*e-w  Engrlaxia.  ©xg-axs.  Co.  ©xgraxis. 

Priees  from  $SO  to  $300  for  Organs. 


PICTURE -FRAMES,  ALL   KINDS  MADE  TO   ORDER, 

As   Cheap    and    Better   than    Northern    Frames. 

hngravinjs,    Oil- 'Paintings,   Chromos,    Picture- Cards, 

And  EvcrtJiins  In  tlie  .Picture  Line. 

MUSICAL  BOXES  &  MUSICAL  INSTRUMENTS  of  all    Kinds, 

SHEET  HVLTTSIC  -A-lTD  3VET7SICA.L  WORKS. 

Every  article  soid  at  the  Lowest  Possible  Price. 

Every  Piano  or  Organ  sold  by  me  is  warranted  for  seven  years. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


E.    O.   ZADEK   &    CO., 

JEWELERS, 

WATCHES,    DIAMONDS, 

SILVERWARE,  PLATED  WARE, 

OPERA-GLASSES,  SPECTACLES,  &c. 

Masonic    Temple,  -  MOBILE,    ALA. 

J.    K.    RANDALL, 

ESTABLISHED  1831. 

BOOKSELLER  AND  STATIONER, 

BLANK-BOOK  MANUFACTURER, 

At   the   Old   Established    Store,    No.  "5    North    Water   Street, 

MOBILE,    ALABAMA. 

iw,  Medical,  School,  and  Miscellaneous  Books.' 


J".    IF.  IKIEJBIOIE, 


UF.ALKU    IN 


English.,  French,  and  American 

DRY  GOODS,  HOSIERY, 

GLOVES,  LACES, 
And     Notions     of    Every     Description* 

129  Dauphin   St.,  Mobile,  Ala. 


AD  VER  TISE  ME  NTS. 


SCRANTON,  BARNEY  &  CO., 

io,  12,  14  &  16  North  Commerce  St.,  Mobile,  Ala. 


IMPORTERS  OF  AND  DEALERS  IN 


Hardware,  .  Woodenware,    Tinware, 

Grain-Cradles,   Rope,  Axes,  Scythes,  Coffee-Mills,  Blacksmiths'  Tools, 
Spades,  Carpenters'  Tools,  Horseshoes,   Mattocks,  Shovels,  Coop- 
ers' Tools,  Babbit  Metal,  Sheet-Copper,  Gin  and  Mill  Gear- 
ing, Agricultural  Implements,  Brinley  Plows,  Carriage 
Materials,   Turpentine   Tools.    Cooking  and 
Heating  Stoves,  Etc.,  Etc. 


OTJE;    STOVES 

Can  not  be  surpassed  for  neatness  of  design  and  finish,  durability,  and  the  many  requisites 
which  make  perfection.  We  have  sold  many  hundreds  of  the  COTTAGE  COOKING 
STOVE,  and  all  have  given  satisfaction.  Besides,  our  best  cooks  are  unanimously  of  the 
opinion  that  it  can  not  be  excelled.  There  is  another  consideration  with  the  economical, 
that  it  is  cheaper  than  any  other  of  a  similar  grade. 


Scranton,  Barney  &  Co.'s  Cast  Plows,  No.  8,  y2,  1, 


STEEL    -FOIZ-X-    rijO-WS- 


OILS,   WHITE  LEADS,  ETC. 

Raw  and  Boiled  Linseed  Oil,  Lard-Oil,  Winter  Strained,  in  quantities  from  5  gallons  up. 
White  Lead  in  Kegs,  Axle-Grease  and  Lubricating  Oils,  all  of  the  purest  qualities. 


Bar  Iron,  Nails,  Guns,  Bolting-Cloths,  Castings,  Fish- 
ing Tackle,  Cutlery,  Grindstones,  Millstones. 

Railroad  and  Steam  -  Engine  Supplies  of  Every  Description, 

HERRING  &  FARREL'S  CELEBRATED  SAFES. 
COTTON  TIES,  Best,   Cheapest,  and  Largest  Stock  in  the  South. 

FULL  STOCK  OF  BLACKSMITHS'  MATERIALS. 

Agents  for  Sugar-Mills  and  Evaporators,  Straub's  Corn  and  Wheat  Mills,  Mobile  Wooden- 
ware  Manufactory,  the  Daniel  Pratt  Gin  Company's  Gins,  Boston  Belting  Company  Belting 
and  Vulcanized  India  Rubber,  Faiibanks'  Standard  Platform  and  Counter  Scales. 

In  brief,  we  have  every  description  of  Goods  necessary  to  make  a  complete  stock  of  Hard- 
ware, etc. — it  not  the  most  so— of  any  to  be  found  in  the  southern  country,  all  of  which  will  be 
sold  at  prices  and  on  terms  to  suit  the  times. 

Our  Stock  Comprises  the  Largest  and  Cheapest  Lot  of  Plows  In  the  County, 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


^SPECIAL   ATTENTION  GIVEN   TO  ORDERS.^m 

2s£.   ZE^OZDIDIT, 

DEALER  IN 

STAPLE  m  FANCY  DRY  GOODS, 

Shawls,  Silks,  and  Dress  Goods, 

Zinens,   Zaces,    Embroideries,    JVoolen    Goods,    Carpeting* 
Matting,    Jr'indow-  Shades, 

j$  Dauphin  Street,  bet.  St.  Emanuel  and  Royal, 
MOBILE,  ALA. 

W.  B.    VAIL.  L.   C.   VAIL. 

W.   B.  VAIL.   &   CO.   . 

ESTABLISHED  1846. 

GROCERS  &  IMPORTERS, 

White  Front   Buildings, 

NOS.    70   and   72   DAUPHIN    STREET, 

Mobile,  Alabama. 

N.    K.  LUDLOW, 
Plumber,    Gas    and    Steam     Fitter, 

Water,   Gas    and  Steam   Goods  of  Every  Description. 
Particular  Attention  Paid  to  Repairing  Pumps  and  Driving  Wells. 

Sole  Agent. tor  Fuller,  Warren  &  Co.'s  Double  Oven  Cooking  Range, 
Ludlow'    Patent  Rust-Proof  Drove   Wells. 

No.  58  (Dauphin   Street,    Third  door  oelow   (Royal, 

MOBILE,  ALABAMA. 

eSj-Plumbing,  Gas  and  Steam  Fitting  of  all  descriptions,  neatly  executed;  Chandeliers, 
Pendants,  Brackets,  Water-Closets,  Bathing-Tubs,  and  Pumps  of  all  descriptions  furnished 
at  short  notice.  Particular  attention  paid  to  Cleaning,  Repairing  and  Extending  Gas  Fix- 
tures, Introducing  and  Repairing  Hydrants.   Sheet  Lead  and  Drove-Well  Work. 

«Es?V2//   work   Guarantiedr&X 

n 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


ESTABLISHED     1836. 

BROMBERG  BROS. 

108  Dauphin  SI.,  Mobile  Ala., 

PIANOS,    ORGANS, 

Musical   Merchandise,  Sheet-Music, 

Stationery ,    Fine   Fancy.  Goods,    Foreign   and   Domestic    Novelties, 
Society  Goods,  &*c. 

Special    Department.— Drawing,    Painting,    and    Wax-Flower 
Materials,  and  Decorative  Goods  of  ail  kinds. 

Thomas  Henry.  John  Henry. 

THOMAS  HENRY  &  SON, 

DIRECT  FOREIGN  IMPORTERS  OF 

China,  Glass,  Queensware, 

TINWARE,   &c. 

No.    29    ST.    FRANCIS    STREET, 

MOBILE,  ALABAMA. 


BRISK  &  JACOBSON, 

MANUFACTURERS    AND    DEALERS    IN 

CLOTHING 

And     Gents'     Furnishing     Goods, 

Corner  Dauphin  and  Water  Streets, 
MOBILE,  ALA. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


3s^c::r,s.  lloyd, 

Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealer  in 

j3il.k$,  f\iBBojM5,  Anli  ^VIillijmery  •C|ood$, 

85  and  87  St  Francis  Street,  Cor.  Joachim, 

NEARLY  OPPOSITE  P.  H.  PEPPER  ft  CO.  MOBILE,  ALA. 


Prompt  Attention  Given  to  all  Kinds  of  Dress-Making. 
CHAMBERLAIN    &   CO. 

WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL  DEALERS  IN 

Northern  and  Western  Produce, 

Choice  Green  and  Black  Teas, 
Fine    Old   Brandies,    Wines,    Whiskies,    &e. 

Ship,  Family,  and  Boat  Stores  put  up  at  Low  Rates. 

Nos.  4  &  6  South  Commerce  St.,    MOBILE,  ALA. 
I.  C.  DuBOSE  &  CO. 

WHOLESALE    DRUGGISTS, 

No.  7  North  Water   Street, 
MOBILE,  -  -  ALABAMA. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


COAL  AND  WOOD. 

All  kinds,  in  quantities  to  suit,  and  sold  at  the. lowest  prices,  by 

A.  C.  BANNER  $  CO. 

MOBILE,  ALA. 


Lumber, 

Shingles, 

Fence-Posts, 

cross-ties, 

hewed  timber, 
mast-sticks, 

SPARS,    <fcc. 

FOB    SALE    BY 

A.  C.  BANNER  &  CO.,  Mobile,  Ala. 


WHITE-OAK  STAVES 

Bought  all  the  year  as  they  may  come  to  market  by 

A.  C  DANNER  &  CO. 

MOBILE,  ALA. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


W.  H.  GARDNER.  A.J.  GILLESPIE.  FRANK  T.  COPP- 

Gardner,  Gillespie  &  Co. 
COTTOIT  FACTORS, 

No.  38  North  Commerce  Street,  MOBILE,  ALA- 

No.  SO  Union  Street.  NEW  ORLEANS,  LA 

THOS.  W.  SIMS.  JACOB  P-  BILLUPS. 

Sims5  Bilhaps  &  Co. 
COTTON  FACTORS. 

No.  42  North  Commerce  St.,  -  MOBILE,  ALA. 

L.   W.   LAWLER.  W.   L.  BAKER.  J.   W.   WHITING. 

Baker,  Lawler  &  Co. 

COTTON   FACTORS, 

40  NORTH   COMMERCE  ST., 
Establish^  1844.  MOBILE,    ALA. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


Peter  Stark,  Prest.  J.  W.  Whiting,  Vice-Prest.  L.  C.  Fry,  Cashie  r 

PEOPLE'S  SAVINGS-BANK, 

MOBILE,  ALA. 


PAID  UP  CAPITAL  $160,000. 

XHSECTOES- 

J.  W.  Whiting,  G.  F.  Werborn,  I.  B.  Davis,  D.  T.  Parker' 

W.  J.  Brainard,  A.  C.  Danner,  Peter  Stark. 

COLLECTIONS  SOLICITED. 

Remittances  always   made  on   day  of  Collection  at   Current  Rate  of  Exchange. 


COTTON   BROKER. 

NO  44  NORTH  WATER  ST., 

MOBILE,  -  ALABAMA. 

L.  BREWER  &  CO., 


Corner  Commerce  and  St.  Louis  Streets, 

MOBILE,  ALA. 


AD  VER  Tib  EVENTS. 


C.  S.  PARTRIDGE  &  CO. 

131   DAUPHIN   STREET,   131. 

—DEALERS  IN— 

J-^ouse-purnishing  Qoods, 

—ALL  KINDS  OF— 

Culinary  tirlicles,,  Cream- Freezers,  &c. 
The  Champion  Cook-Stove,  FASHION. 


N.  W.  Cor.  Dauphin  and  Conception  Sts.t  MOBILE,  ALA. 


— DEALER   IN — 


DRUGS,  MEDICINES,  CHEMICALS, 

Toilet    and    Fancy   Articles,    Patent   Medicines, 
Brushes,  Soaps,  Perfumery. 


Prescriptions  Carefully    Compounded. 


Fine  Chemicals  and  Pure  Drugs  a  Specialty. 

E.  P.  HERPIN  &  CO. 

Importers  and  Dealers  in 


DRY  GOODS, 

Nos.  105  and  107  Dauphin  Street, 

&  E.   Corner  Conception.  MOBILE,    ALABAMA. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


TIHUEJ  J^GOttlSr  cook:, 

MICA  OR  CAST  FRONT.  .FOR  WOOD. 


With   the   experience   gained   during    thirty-five  years   in   the   manufacture   of    nearly 
ONE  MILLION  STOVES, 

We  claim  to  know  what  the  people  want,  and  how  to  make  a  Cooking  Stove  suited  to  their 
demands,  and  so  have  brought  out 

THE  ACORN  COOKS, 

Which  we  pronounce  the  best  Stoves  for  the  money  ever  made. 

We  know  there  are  many  Cheaper  Stoves,  some  made  of  light  castings,  others  of  poor 
iron,  and  again,  others  badly  constructed  and  mounted  These  soon  crack,  burn  out,  and 
are  a  constant  trial  and  a  vexation.  Such  Stoves  are  not  comparable  with  out  acorn  cooks, 
which  are  made  only  of  new  iron,  and  Warranted  to  last  for  25  years.  Especial  atten- 
tion is  invited  to  our  Ventilated  Fire-Box  Bottom,  Fire-Back  and  Oven.  The  Acorns 
are  the  only  Stoves  made  with  this  admirable  arrangement,  to  prevent  the  over-heating  of 
the  oven  under  the  fire-box,  preserve  the  fire-back,  keep  the  air  in  the  oven  fresh  and  free 
from  steam  and  gases,  and  prevent  the  escape  of  all  smell  of  cooking.  This  arrangement  en- 
ables us  to  guaranty  the  sweetest  bread,  baked  most  quickly  and  economcally.  We  make 
the  Stoves  with  the  plain  top,  in  which  all  the  peculiar  advantages  are  secured,  also  with  the 
New  Portable  Low  Copper  Reservoir.  That  can  be  lifted  out  in  a  moment  for  cleaning 
or  repairing,  in  which  ten  or  fifteen  gallons  of  water  can  be  kept  constantly  hot,  for  all  the 
uses  of  the  kitchen.  The  Convenience  of  a  Low  Restrvoir  can  not  be  overestimated. 
Those  who  have  been  accustomed  to  using  the  old-fashioned  high  reservoir  know  how  incon- 
venient it  is  to  raise  a  pailful  of  water  high  enough  to  .pour  into  them,  and  will  welcome  this 
great  improvement.  A  Large  Hot  Closet,  which  is  also  made  of  cast  iron,  is  attached 
underneath  the  Reservoir. 

IRA  W.   PORTER   &   CO. 


S.  E.  Corner  Water  and  St.  Francis  Sts., 


MOBILE,  ALABAMA. 


AD  VERTISEMENTS. 


JST.  CRA1STE, 

No.  67  Dauphin  St.,  MOBILE,  ALABAMA. 

—  DEALER    IN— 

The  Unrivalled 

Singer  Sewing-Machine. 


Sold  on  Easy  Terms,  or  a  Liberal  Discount 
for  Cash.  Genuine  Needles  for  all  kinds  of 
Sewing-Machines,  at  Five  Cents  Apiece,  or 
Fifty  Cents  per  Dozen.  Sewing-Machines 
of  all  kinds  repaired,  and  work  tully  guaran- 
tied. fi=g*"Sewing-Silk,  Spool-Cotton,  Ma- 
chine-Oil, always  on  hand. 


S.  MARCUS  &  SON, 

IMPORTERS  AND  DEALERS  IN 

Laces,  Embroideries,  While  Goods,  Crapes,  Ribbons, 

Hosiery,  Straw  and  Silk  Goods,   Worsteds,  Flowers, 

Feathers,  and  Notions  of  every  description. 


//4  and  7/6  Dauphin  St., 


MOBILE,  ALABAMA. 


DR.   WM.  DEASON, 


SURGEON  DENTIST. 


No.  97  Dauphin  Street, 


MOBILE, 


ALABAMA. 


ADVER  TISEMENTS. 


Quattlebaum  k  Gelbke, 


Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealers  in 


OF  AL.L  KINDS. 
./Ko.  /''•S  Dauphin  St., 

Mobile.    -  Alabama. 


A  first-class  Machine  with  a  full  set  ot 

ssse"         attachments,  for  $30.00. 


C.  HANN  &  CO. 


—DEALERS  IN— 


BOOTS  and  SHOES. 

53  AND  115  DAUPHIN  ST., 

Mobile,        -         ■         Alabama. 


YOUNG  BROTHEES, 

Plumbers,  Gas  and  Steam  Fitters, 

S  W  COR.  DAUPHIN  AND  ST.  EMANUEL  STS., 
MOBILE,  ALA. 


Drove-wells  put  down  at  Reasonable  Rates. 


AD  VER  T I  SEME  NTS. 


MOBILE  HAIE-STOEE, 

95  DAUPHIN  STREET,   kJOBILE,  ALABAHJA. 

I  keep  on  hand  and  make  to  order  a  full  assortment  of  HUMAN-HAIR  GOODS; 
also,  composition  de  Jean  Auge  of  Paris,  the  best  hair  tonic  used.  Parian,  the  finest  beauti- 
fier  of  the  complexion.  Robares  Ameoline,  the  famous  blonde  dye.  Colognes,  Creams,  and 
Extracts. 

Ladies'  Toilet  Articles  a  Specialty. 

Braids  made  from  Combings.     Orders  solicited  and  promptly  attended  to. 

Mrs.  E.  Quinn. 


GEO.   B.   PRESTON.  ESTABLISHED  1840.  A.   S.   STETSON. 

PRESTON  &  STETSON, 

Manufacturers  and  Wholesale  Dealers  in 

BOOTS,  SHOES,  and  HATS, 

N.  W.  COR.  ST.  FRANCIS  AND  WATER  STS., 

Office  in  Boston,  110  Summer  St.]  rVTofoilG     Ala 

SIGN  OE  THE  3-OLIDE1T  ELEPHAKT. 

JOS.   PROSKAUER, 

Manufacturer  of 

plain   and   JTancy   (Randies, 


Pure  and  unadulterated,  and  warranted  to  keep  in  any  climate. 

No.  15  Dauphin  St.,        -        MOBILE/ ALA. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


t.  Mcdonald.  wm.  march.  t.  w.  Mcdonald. 


McDonald,  March  &  Co. 


-manufacturers  of— 


Monumeijts,  Torpbs,  Gravestones, 

M^lISTTELS,  etc 

Sidewalks  Paved  with  Stone  on  Short  Notice. 
ALL  WORK  GUARANTIED 

To  be  Fully  up  to  Design  and  Specifications. 


Parties  will  do  well  to  confer  with  us  before  making  any  contracts 
for  Monuments  or  Stone-Work  elsewhere. 


}  Royal  St.,  East  Side,  del.  St.  Louis  and  SI.  Anthony  Sis., 

MOBILE,  .AJLjA.. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


M.  FORCHHEIMER.  FERD.  FORCHHEIMER. 

M.  FORCHHEIMER  &  CO., 

WHOLESALE  GROCERS 


AND    DEALERS  IN 


WESTERN    PRODUCE. 

21  &  23  N.  Commerce,  St.  Mobile.  Ala. 


AGENTS   FOR  ™\rZ™riT, Z^°-    FLOUR. 


AND  HIGHLAND   CITY  MILLS. 


THE  ALABAMA 


Gold  Life-lpsurance  Corppagy. 

HOME  OFFICE: 

34  St.  Francis  Street,       -         -         MOBILE,  ALA. 


ASSETS  HALF  A  MILLION 

CAPITAL       -  $200,000  IN  GOLD. 

Geo.  W.  Agnew.  W.  H.  Scales. 

Agnew,  Scales  &  Co. 

COTTON  FACTORS  &  COMMISSION  MERCHANTS, 

No.  63  NORTH    COMMERCE  STREET. 
MOBILE,  -  ALABAMA. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


PRICE  WILLIAMS.  JAMES  K.  GLENNON. 

(Notary   Public.) 

Williams  &  Glennon, 

NO.  60  ST.  FRANCIS  STREET, 
Opposite  the  Custom  Howe,  MOBILE,     ALABAMA. 

REAL  ESTATE  AGENTS,  BROKERS,  AND  AUCTIONEERS, 

BUY  AND  SELL  ON  COMMISSION 

united  states,  state,  county,  and  city  bonds, 

Fire  and  Life  Insurance  and  Mining  Stocks. 

B®°Special  attention  given  to  Auction  Sales. 


L.  M.  MeKINNEY  &  CO. 

Manufacturers  and  Dealers  in 

Saddles,  Harness,  Bridles,  Collars,  Whips, 

Eobes,  Blankets,  Brushes,  Combs,  Fly-Nets,  &c, 
TRUNKS    REPAIRED   AND   COVERED. 

11  North  Water  St.,  -  MOBILE,  AliA 

THE    PLACE    TO    BUY 
READY-MADE  CLOTHING 

—IS  AT  THE— 

MAMMOTH  CLOTHING  HOUSE, 

M.  P.  LEVY  &  CO. 

Wos.  16.  18,  and  20  X  Water  St.,  MOBILE,  ALA. 


AD  VER  TISEMENTS. 


GEORGE  F.  WERBORN, 

NO.   143  DAUPHIN  STREET, 

Furniture,  Carpets,  Upholstery, 

AND  INTERIOR  DECORATIONS. 


Very  Latest  Styles  ^n_  Furniture  Coverins 

East  Lake  and  Queen  ttfnne  Tarlor,  Library,  <Dining,  and 
<Bed-<Room  Suits. 


RAW  SILK  MATERIAL, 

Latest  Styles,  a  Beautiful    Variety. 


PARLOR  SUITS  from  $65.00  Upward, 

Bed-Room,  Dining-Koom,  and  Library  Furniture 

AT  VERY  LOW  PRICES. 


CARPETS. 

S1.10.  t 

Chain 

Every  Variety  of  Rugs,  Mats,  and  Stair  Carpeting  and  Fitting. 


Tapestry  Brussels $1.10,  to  1.15,  to  1.20,  to  1.25 

Extra  Three-Ply 1.30 

Extra  Super 1.10 

Extra  Double  Cotton  Chain 50  to  60  cts 


Richest  and  most  varied  assortment  of  Lace  Curtains, 

3r:Eao3^£  $2.oc  fe^2,  :e>_a.ie2.  -cr^^xr-ft-^ano. 

Cornices,  Window*- Shades,   and  IZvery   Novelty 
Appertaining  to  'Pai'lor  or  Interior  Household 
'Decoration,  of  the  very  best  Quality,  and 

Guarantied  as   Low  as   Anywhere. 


A  D  VEK  T IS  EM  EN  TS. 


JOHN  DOUGLAS, 


Dry  Goods,  Laces  I  Embroideries. 


Florence  Sewing- Machine  Needles. 


121    DAUPHIN  STREET* 


Mobile,       -       -       Alabama. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  489  437  6 


i~M  £p 

!*» 

» 

■_•»■., j 

; 

