# 


TXllS. 


Class. 

Book     -^Zio 

Copyright  1^°_ 


0 


COFYRIGHT  DEPOSrr. 


WARM  AIR. 


HOT  AIR. 


.  .  Kini  of  Furnaces  .  . 


The 
Helsey 


.     SOLD  ONLY  BY 


'% 


J.  H.  &  W.  H.  RILEY, 


193  Hain  St., 


Northampton,  Mass. 


T/ie  Hatfield  Congregational  Church  has  one.      Ask  the  Janitor 
about  it,  and  Mrs.  Brozvn,—Ask  her  about  "Kelsey.'' 


F.  E.  SHU M WAY, 

.    .    DEALER   IN   THE   CEEEBRATED    .    . 

MAGnn  RANGES. 

Unequaled  in  stj'le,  durability,  economy, 
and  perfection  in  baking,  etc. 

SANITARY  PLUMBERS. 

All  classes  of  Buildings  Heattd  with  Steam, 
Hot  Water  or  Warm  Air. 


DEALER  IN  AKRON  PIPE  AND  EITTINGS,  TIN  ROOFING, 
GUTTERS  AND  CONDUCTORS. 

And  all  kinds  of  Sheet  Metal  Work.  Jobbing  a  Specialty. 

Remember  the  Peace. 

21  Centre  St.,  Northampton,  Mass. 

SHUMWAY,  THE  PLUMBER, 

TELEPHONE     176-2. 


H.  LUSSIER, 

Grocer  and  Baker, 

25  PERKINS  AVENUE,    NORTHAMPTON. 


WATCH    FOR    THE    CART. 

THE    BEST    BAKERY    ON    WHEELS    IN     THE 
CONNECTICUT    VALLEY. 


FRANK   E.   DAVIS, 
^jg    ©ptician.  .  .     ^|g 

FINE    REPAIRING. 


164  riain  Street,  Northampton,  Hass. 

HEADQUARTERS 

nr    FOR    »y 

BOOKS  AND  STATIONERY. 

Engraving  a  Specialty.       »«^      ^ 
Waterman  Ideal  Fountain  Pens. 

A  Good  Oxford  Teachers'  Bible  for  $1.00. 

»r    AT    «r 

S.     E.     BRIDGMAIN    <Sr    CO'S., 

108  MAIN  STREET. 

J    W.  HEFFERNAN, 
Stationer  and    News    Dealer. 

Books  of  All  Kinds. 


Rammocks,  Lawn  Cennis,  Croquet  Sets, 
Cameras  and  Supplies. 

153  WAIN  STREET,  NORTHAMPTON,  MASS. 

GPP.    WHITE    BANK 


COPYRIGHT.  i8 


TWO  COPIES  RECEIVED. 


SECOND  COPY. 


The  Hatfield 


K  In 


ri 


K 


o 


PLAIN  AND  FANCY  RECIPES. 


li 


"7^ 


ARRANGED     BY 


The  "Real  Folks' 


OF 


THE    CONGREGATIONAL    CHURCH, 


HATFIELD,    MASS. 


HOLVOKE,    MASS., 

HUBBARD  &  TABER  PRINTING  CO. 

1899. 


A^\ 


P 


47034 


REMARKS. 


npHE  HATFIELD  COOK  BOOK  is  sent  forth  to 
the  public  with  best  wishes  to  all  patrons  for  its 
success.  The  Recipes  given  are  "tested"  ones.  This 
means  more  to  good  housekeepers  than  words  alone. 
May  each  housewife  or  maiden  who  attempts  a  recipe 
reap  success  to  her  personal  efforts,  and  remember 
that  tact  and  common  sense  are  as  necessary  in  cook- 
ing, as  in  many  other  practical  duties  of  life. 


SOUPS. 


'Who  builds  the  fire  for  his  wife,  much  happiness  will  find  in  life." 


TOMATO  SOUP. 


Two  quarts  of  cold  water,  eight  large  tomatoes, 
four  rolled  crackers,  pepper  and  salt.  When  nearly 
done,  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one 
teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  one  cup  of  milk,  put  in 
just  as  you  take  it  off  the  fire. 

MRS.  M.  N.  HUBBARD. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

One  can  tomatoes,  one  pint  water;  boil  hard  until 
tomato  is  cooked.  Add  one-fourth  teaspoon  soda, 
strain,  set  on  stove  and  season  uith  butter,  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  slowly  one  pint  of  milk,  and  let  come 
to  a  boil 

MRS.  J.  E.  PORTER, 

TOMATO  BISQUE. 

Three  pints  milk  boiled  in  double  boiler,  one 
can  tomato  soup  (condensed.)  The  tomato  is  to  be 
added  to  soup  just  before  serving.  One  tablespoon  of 
flour  improves  the  soup. 

MRS.  R.  M.  WOODS. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Two  quarts  clear  stock,  skimmed  clean  of  every 
particle  of  fat,  one  carrot,  one  onion,  one  potato,  one- 
half  cup  rice.  Cook  carrot,  onion  and  potato  in  a 
part  of  stock  until  tender.  Add  rice  and  cooked 
vegetables  to  remainder  of  stock  and  cook  half  an 
hour  before  serving. 

MRS.  R.  M.  WOODS. 

POTATO  SOUP. 

Three  potatoes,  one  teaspoon  chopped  onions,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one-half  tablespoon  butter,  one-half 
tablespoon  flour,  one  pint  of  milk.  Cook  potatoes 
until  soft  and  mash.  Cook  onions  in  the  milk  and 
add  to  the  potato,  strain.  Cook  flour  and  butter 
together,  add  to  the  other  and  cook  five  minutes. 

MRS.  HENRY  A.  WARNER. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Three  or  four  pounds  of  fowl.  Three  quarts  cold 
water,  one  tablespoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  chopped 
onions,  two  tablespoons  chopped  celery,  one  pint  of 
creaui,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon  corn 
starch,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  salt  spoon  white  pepper, 
two  eggs. 

MRS.  GEORGE  A.  BILLINGS. 

MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP. 

Boil  one  pound  of  calf's  liver  and  two  pounds  of 
veal  two  hours,  skimming  well,  then  strain,  chop  the 
meat  fine  and  add  to  it  a  small  onion  chopped.  Salt, 
pepper  and  ground  cloves  to  taste,  thickening  all 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour,  and  boiling  all 
up  together.  Have  four  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  up  in 
tureen,  also  one  lemon  sliced. 

MRS.  C.  E.  HUBBARD. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Set  the  liquor  in  which  two  or  three  fowls  have 
been  boiled,  away  to  cool.  Skim  off  the  fat,  and  then 
put  it  into  the  soup  kettle,  witli  one  whole  onion  and 
a  half  cup  of  rice;  boil  two  hours.  Just  before  dishing, 
take  out  onion  and  put  in  some  pieces  of  cold  chicken. 

MRS.  R.  BILLINGS. 

CABBAGE  SOUP. 

Boil  a  small  soup  bone,  to  the  stock  add  a  small 
head  of  cabbage  chopped  fine,  one  teacup  of  rice,  a 
little  chopped  celery,  (or  celery  salt)  and  boil  until  soft. 

MRS.  NELSON  ALLAIR. 

CABBAGE  SOUP. 

One  quart  of  chopped  cabbage,  one  quart  of  water, 
cook  one-half  hour.  Be  sure  you  have  the  same 
quantity  before  adding  milk.  Add  one  quart  of  milk, 
season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  This  quantity 
will  serve  three  or  four  persons. 

MRS.  M.  F.  SAMPSON. 

PEA  SOUP. 

One  quart  of  split  peas  soaked  over  night,  next 
morning  let  them  boil  until  soft,  and  then  pass  them 
through  a  fine  sieve,  after  which  mix  with  it  stock  if 
you  have  it,  if  not  add  water  to  make  it  as  thin  as 
you  wish  and  a  small  piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

MRS.  A.  H.   GRAVES. 

CLAM  SOUP. 

Two  dozen  clams  chopped  fine,  pour  over  them 
one  quart  of  cold  water  and  let  them  just  simmer, 
nothing  more,  on  the  back  of  the  stove  three-quarters 
ofan  hour,  then  add  one  pint  of  milk,  season  with 
butter,  pepper,  salt;  soup  is  improved  by  adding  from 
one-half  to  a  tablespoon  of  Worcestershire  Sauce. 

MRS.  A.  H.  GRAVES. 


HATFIELD  COOK  BOOK. 


POTATO  SOUP. 

One  quart  of  milk,  six  large  potatoes,  one  stalk  of 
celery,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  large  onion.  Boil 
in"  double  boiler  with  celery  and  onion.  Pare  and 
boil  potatoes  thirty  minutes,  turn  off  the  water  and 
mash  fine;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter;  add  to 
the  boiling  milk;  strain  and  serve  immediately.  A 
cup  of  whipped  cream  added  after  the  soup  is  in  the 
tureen  improves  it. 

MRS.  R.  M.  WOODS. 
TURKEY  SOUP. 

Take  a  carcass  of  roast  chicken  or  turkey,  leaving 
on  some  of  the  dressing.  Cover  with  cold  water  and 
boil  several  hours.  Cut  into  this  one  stalk  of  celery, 
and  boil  one  hour  longer. 

MRS.  R.  BILLINGS. 
CLAM  CHOWDER. 

One-half  peck  clams,  wash  shells  with  brush  and 
boil.  Fry  four  slices  of  salt  pork  crisp,  in  frying  pan, 
(cut  fine  before  frying.)  Take  out  pork,  and  fry 
brown  four  onions  sliced  thin.  Take  clams  from 
shells  and  chop  fine,  strain  broth  that  clams  were 
boiled  in,  and  put  back  into  kettle,  add  chopped  clams, 
pork,  onions,  three  or  four  sliced  potatoes,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste;  boil  slowly  one  hour  Just  before 
serving  add  spoonful  of  flour  to  thicken  slightly. 
Add  milk  if  desired. 

MRS.  J.  E.  PORTER. 
BEAN  SOUP. 

One  pint  of  steamed  beans;  rub  through  a  colander 
or  remove  skins,  place  on  stove,  and  add  one  pint  of 
milk  with  salt  and  a  little  red  pepper.  Also  one  onion 
sliced  and  fried  in  butter.  Butter  two  slices  of  bread, 
cut  them  in  dice,  brown  them  in  the  oven  Add  to  the 
soup  just  before  serving.  Potatoes,  peas,  asparagus 
or  tomatoes  can  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

MISS  MILLER, 


HATFIELD   COOK  BOOK. 


CELERY  SOUP. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  pint  of  water,  one  large 
head  of  celery,  two  tablespoons  flour,  one  tablespoon 
butter,  one  onion,  grating  of  nutmeg.  Boil  celery  in 
the  water  forty  minutes.  Boil  milk,  onion  and  nut- 
meg together.  Mash  celery  in  the  water  in  which  it 
has  been  boiled;  add  the  flour  and  butter  to  the  milk; 
add  the  mashed  celery,  strain  and  serve. 

MRS.  R.  M.  WOODS. 

BLACK  BEAN  SOUP.— (fink.) 

One  pint  black  beans,  two  quarts  cold  water,  one 
small  onion,  one  lemon,  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  two 
teaspoons  salt,  one  tablespoon  flour,  two  tablespoons 
butter,  one  saltspoon  pepper,  one  saltspoon  mustard, 
one-quarter  saltspoon  cayenne.  Soak  the  beans  over 
night,  in  morning  drain  and  put  to  boil  in  the  cold 
water.  Slice  the  onions  and  fry  in  butter,  and  put  it 
with  the  beans  and  simmer  four  or  five  hoars  un'. il 
they  are  soft,  adding  water  as  needed,  so  there  will  be 
about  two  quarts  when  done.  Then  rub  the  beans 
throngh  strainer,  ]>ut  soup  on  to  boil  again,  add  salt, 
pepper  and  mustard.  While  boiling  add  the  butter 
and  flour  which  have  been  cooked  together.  Cut 
the  lemon  and  eggs  in  thin  slices,  and  put  in  tureen 
and  pour  soup  over  them. 

MISS  M.  A.  MORTON. 

HAM  AND  EGG  SOUP. 

Re-heat  three  pints  of  the  liquor  in  which  ham 
has  been  boiled,  (if  not  too  salt)  and  when  boiling, 
skim,  stir  in  gradually  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
wet  in  a  cup  of  the  cold  liquor.  Bring  to  a  boil  and 
pour  into  tureen  in  which  two  well  beaten  eggs  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  with  six  round 
crackers  split  have  been  placed. 

]MRS.  C.  E.  HUBBARD. 


10  11  AT  FIELD    COOK  ROOK. 


ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 

Boil  one  quirt  of  finely  cut  asparagus,  tender  in 
one  qnart  of  water,  rub  all  through  a  colander.  Heat 
one  pint  of  milk,  warm  and  rub  together  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  with  two  of  flour,  adding  the  hot 
milk  gradually.  Season  and  pour  into  asparagus. 
Bring  to  a  boiling  point,  pour  into  tureen  with  a 
cup  of  toasted  bits  of  bread. 

MRS.  C.  E.  HUBBARD. 
MILK  SOUP. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one 
teaspoonful  chopped  onion,  one-half  tablespoon  flour, 
one  stalk  celery,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  half  saltspoon 
white  pepper,  speck  of  cayenne,  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  celery  salt,  cook  milk,  onion,  celery  twenty  minutes 
in  double  boiler;  cook  the  flour  and  butter  together 
five  minutes  being  careful  not  to  burn  it,  then  pour 
it  into  the  soup,  add  the  seasoning  and  it  is  ready  to 
finish  in  any  way,  if  for  Potato  Soup  add  three  boiled 
potatoes  mashed  very  fine  to  the  foundation,  rub 
through  a  sieve  into  hot  tureen,  if  for  Celery  add  one 
pint  stewed  and  sifted  celery  to  the  foundation  and 
strain  over  one  ^^^  beaten  to  a  cream. 

MRS.  GEO.  BILLINGS. 
TURNIP  AND  POTATO  SOUP. 

One  cup  mashed   potato,    one  cup    of    mashed 

turnip,  one  sliced  onion,   one  pint  water.       Simmer 

together,  add  one  pint  of  hot  milk.  Butter,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.     Strain  and  serve. 

MRS.  CHARLES  GRAVES. 
PARSNIP  STEW. 

One  cup  meat  stock  (lamb  preferred,)  four  cold 
parsnips  cut  up  into  dice,  four  cold  potatoes  cut  in  the 
same  manner,  two  onions,  one  quart  water,  cook  about 
one-half  hour,  or  until  onion  is  cooked.  Season  to 
taste  and  serve. 

MISS  E.  SHATTUCK. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  U 

LAMB  SOUP. 

In  bu3'iiig  lamb  chops,  buy  the  whole  piece  from 
which  they  are  cut;  have  it  cut  into  chops,  using  the 
rest  for  soup.  Wash  thoroughly  rubbing  the  outside 
with  a  coarse  towel.  Put  on  the  fire  in  cold  water, 
and  boil  until  meat  drops  from  the  bones.  Strain 
and  set  away  till  cold.  Remove  ever}^  bit  of  fat  when 
you  wish  to  use  the  soup.  Put  in  j^our  tureen  one- 
half  cup  of  rice,  which  you  have  steamed  till  very 
tender.  When  the  soup  is  boiling  hot,  beat  an  egg 
and  stir  it  into  a  cup  of  milk  in  which  a  tablespoon 
of  flour  has  been  rubbed;  put  with  this,  a  little  at  a 
time  some  of  the  scalding  liquor,  until  there  is  no 
danger  of  the  Q:gg  curdling.  Serve  instantly  as  it 
will  thicken  by  standing;  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

MRS.  J.  vS.  WELLS. 

SOUP  STOCK. 

If  3^ou  bu}^  fresh  meat  for  a  soup  stock,  the  shank 
is  most  economical.  Wash  and  put  on  in  cold  water 
and  one  spoonful  of  salt.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil, 
take  off  the  scum,  and  set  the  kettle  where  it  will 
boil  slowly  ten  hours.  Then  strain  into  a  bright 
tin,  or  stone  pot.  In  the  morning  skim  off"  all  the 
fat,  turn  the  jelly  out,  and  take  off"  all  the  sediment. 
Use  the  meat  for  hash.  Do  not  boil  vegetables  with 
this  stock  as  it  causes  it  to  sour  quickly. 

Use  celery  in  all  kinds  of  soup  when  you  can 
obtain  it. 


12  HATFIELD   COOK  BOOK. 


HATFIELD   COOK  BOOK.  13 


14  HATFIELD   COOK  BOOK. 


PISH, 


"There's  as  good  a  fish  in  the  sea  as  ever  was  caught." 


BAKED  FISH.— A  la  creme. 

Boil  four  pounds  halibut,  when  done   skin    and 

remove  bones,  and  flake  it.     Boil  one  quart  of  milk, 

with    oue  half  onion   chopped  fine,   a   few    sprigs    of 

parsley,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt.     Thicken  the  milk 

with  three  tablespoons  flour  or  butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Butter  a  dish,  put  in  a  layer  offish  and  then  cream, 

then  fish,  until  it  is  all  used,  having  cream   on   top. 

Sprinkle  with  sifted  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,    and 

bake  one-half  hour.     Garnish  with  parsley  and  slices 

of  hard  boiled  egg. 

MRS.  G.  w.  c,  N.  Y. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

Half  tea  cup  of  butter,  juice  of  one-half  a  lemon, 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  speck  of  cayenne,  one-half  cup 
boiling  water,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat  butter 
to  a  cream,  add  yolks  of  eggs  one  by  one,  then  lemon 
juice,  pepper  and  salt.  Place  the  bowl  containing  the 
mixture  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water;  beat  with  an 
egg  beater  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  which  will 
be  in  about  a  minute,  then  add  boiling  water,  beating 
all  the  time.  As  soon  as  it  is  like  soft  custard,  it  is 
done.  For  fish  and  meats,  to  be  poured  around  the 
article  on  the  dish. 

MISS  PARLOA. 


IG  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

BROILED  OYSTERS. 

Salt  and  pepper  large  oysters,  dip  in  melted  butter, 
then  in  cracker  crumbs.  Broil  over  hot  coals  until 
brown. 

MRS.  CUTLER. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS. 

One  cup  milk,  three  eggs,  one  dozen  rolled  crack- 
ers, one  tablespoon  flour.  Place  a  large  oyster  in  a 
tablespoon  of  batter  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

MRS.  R.  BILLINGS. 

TO  FRY  OYSTERS. 

Dry  a  few  moments  in  a  cloth,  dip  each  one  in 
beaten  ^gg.,  and  then  into  sifted  cracker  crumbs.  Fry 
in  just  enough  fat  to  brown  them,  put  pepper  and 
salt  on  before  turning  them  over. 

RHODE  ISLAND  FISH  CAKES. 

One  cup  of  salt  cod  fish  and  two  cups  potatoes  cut 
in  small  pieces,  boil  together  until  tender,  then  mash 
together,  beat  one  Q.gg^  a  little  butter,  three  table- 
spoons of  cream,  and  add  to  the  fish  and  potato,  beat 
well,  drop  with  a  spDon  into  hot  fat.  Bacon  fat  is  the 
best  if  you  have  it. 

MRS.  EDWARD  ELDRIDGE. 

ESCALLOPED  FISH. 

One  pound  of  fresh  boiled  cod  fish,  then  make  a 
sauce  of  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  two  of  flour  stirred 
into  one  pint  of  boiling  milk  until  it  thickens,  cut 
hard  boiled  ^gg  into  sauce  then  pour  all  into  a  deep 
dish,  first  a  layer  offish  then  a  layer  of  sauce  until 
dish  is  filled,  cover  top  with  cracker  crumbs  and  bake 
one-half  hour. 

MRS.  H.  L.  WILLIAMS. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  17 

FRIED  SALT  COD  FISH. 

Soak  salt  cod  fish  twerit3^-foiir  hours,  changing  the 
water  three  times,  drain  thoroughly,  roll  in  ^gg  batter 
and  fr^'. 

M.  A.  MORTON. 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

Three  pints  of  03'sters,  fifteen  rolled  crackers,  one 
pint  of  milk,  three  eggs,  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

MRS.  CHAvS.  JONES. 
BAKED  FISH. 

Make  a  dressing-  of  bread  crumbs.  Stuff  the  fish 
and  sew  or  tie  securely.  Place  in  a  pan  with  some 
hot  water,  lay  pieces  of  pork  on  top  with  a  little 
pepper  and  salt  and  bake,  basting  very  often. 

MRS.  ¥.  H.   BARDWELL. 

ESCALLOPED  SALMON. 

Prepare  with  rolled  cracker;  butter,  pepper  and 
salt  in  layer,  same  as  for  03'sters.  Pour  milk  over 
them,  and  last  of  all  beat  one  o^gg.,  and  spread  over 
the  top  and  bake. 

MRS.  DOUGHERTY. 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

Take  bread  crumbs,  rolled  fine;  put  layer  in  bottom 
of  dish;  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  then  layer 
of  oysters  and  so  on  until  dish  is  nearly  full.  Cover 
tightly  and  bake  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour, 
then  remove  cover  and  bake  until  done.  Use  no 
wetting. 

MRS.  J.  E.  PORTER. 

FISH  CROQUETTES. 

One  pint  each  of  finely  minced  cold  boiled  fish 
and  mashed  potato,  wet  with  one-half  cup  hot  milk, 
one  e.gg  and  salt  and  pepper,  mix  well,  shape,  dip  in 
Qgg  then  in  crumbs  and  fry  brown. 


13  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK 


19 


20  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


MBATS. 


The  body  craveth  meats,  the  spirit  athirst  for  peacefulness, 
He  that  hath  these,  hath  enough.  (Tupper ) 


ROAST  TURKEY,  CHICKEN  OR  DUCK. 

Wash  the  fowl  and  wipe  dry,  and  stuff  the  breast 
and  body  with  the  following  dressing  For  a  fowl 
weighing  between  seven  and  eiglit  pounds,  take  one 
quart  of  stale  bread  and  crumb  very  fine;  add  a  table- 
spoon of  salt,  a  scant  teaspoon  of  pepper,  a  teaspoon 
of  chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoon  powdered  sage,  one 
of  summer  savory,  a  half  cup  of  butter  and  a  little 
milk.  Mix  well  together.  Sew  up  the  fowl,  tie  legs 
and  wings  close  to  the  body,  rub  well  with  butter, 
pepper,  salt  and  flour.  Sew  up  in  a  cloth  and  baste 
often,  turn  the  fowl  over  when  about  half  done. 

ROAST  VEAL. 

Cut  gashes  all  over  ihe  meat,  and  fill  them  with 
dressing,  and  sprinkle  salt,  pepper  and  flour  over  the 
surface;  baste  frequently. 

SPICED  VEAL. 

Boil  three  or  four  pounds  of  veal  until  tender,  then 
chop  it  fine  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  very 
little  sage  and  very  little  clover;  return  to  the  liquor 
you  boiled  the  veal  in,  leaving  only  enough  to  moisten 
your  chopped  meat,  then  pour  this  into  a  square 
tin,  set  in  a  cool  place  to  harden. 


2?  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

VEAL  CUTLETS. 

One  pound  veal  steak,  remove  all  fat  and  bones, 
shape  nicely  into  round  flat  pieces  about  the  size  of 
doughnuts,  pound  out,  skewer  into  good  shape, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  sifted  bread 
crumbs,  then  tgg^  then  crumbs  last,  fry  in  pork  fat 
fifteen  minutes,  a  handsome  brown,  all  over  the  same, 
lay  them  in  a  stew  pan,  carefully  make  the  following 
sauce:  One  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful 
flour,  mix  smoothly,  add  a  cupfull  hot  water  or  stock 
made  from  the  trimmings  of  the  veal;  pinch  of  pepper, 
one  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  or  vinegar  or  mixed 
horse-radish;  cook  the  cutlets,  just  simmer  them 
three-fourths  of  an  hour. 


TO  WARM-OVER  iMEAT. 

Butter  a  dish;  put  in  a  layer  of  mashed  seasoned 
potatoes,  then  any  kind  of  meat  you  wish  to  utilize, 
chopped  fine;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter  to 
taste;  then  more  mashe  I  potatoes,  and  so  on  until  the 
dish  is  full;  the  top  layer  should  be  potatoes,  bake 
one-half  hour;  serve  hot. 

SCALLOPED  CHICKEN. 

One  pound  chicken  meat,  cut  in  small  bits  as  for 
salad;  one  cup  fine  dry  bread  crumbs,  one  coffee  cup 
of  chicken  broth  or  jelly,  three  cups  rich  milk,  two 
tablespoons  butter,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  corn 
starch,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  milk  in  a  sauce  pan 
and  when  boiling  hot  add  the  corn  starch  wet  with  a 
little  milk,  add  butter,  crumbs  and  broth;  season  all 
to  taste.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  line  with  a  thick 
layer  of  bread  crumbs,  pour  in  the  mixture,  put  a 
layer  of  crumbs  on  top  and  a  few  bits  of  butter.  Bake 
three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

MRvS.  A.  F.  CURTIS. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  23 


ROAST  I'ORK. 

Wipe  and  dredge  with  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  sage. 
Place  in  hot  oven  for  two  hours  then  ba^te  frequently, 
and  bake  one  hour. 


ROAST  LAMB. 

Take  a  leg  of  lamb  weighing  six  pounds,  wipe 
with  a  damp  cloth,  steam  two  hours,  then  sprinkle 
with  salt,  flour  and  pepper.  Bake  one  hour,  while 
baking  baste  often. 

LAMB  STEWED  WITH  PEAS. 

Cut  breast  of  lamb  in  pieces,  place  in  a  pan,  cover 
and  let  it  simmer  for  twenty  minutes  Skim,  and 
add  a  tablespoon  of  salt  and  one  quart  of  shelled  peas, 
cover,  and  stew  for  half  an  hour.  Mix  a  tablespoon 
of  flour  and  two  of  butter  and  stir  into  the  stew. 
Simmer  fifteen  minutes  longer  and  serve. 


FRIZZLED  BEEF. 

Shave  dried  beef,  put  in  a  frying  pan.  Add  milk 
and  a  piece  of  butter,  thicken  with  flour,  add  one  o^gg 
just  before  removing  from  the  fire. 

MRS.  R.  BIIvLINGS. 


BROILED  BEEFSTEAK. 

A  steak  cut  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick, 
well  pounded.  Place  immediately  over  hot  coals,  on 
a  hot  gridiron.  Thoroughly  brown  on  one  side  before 
turning.  When  done  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper; 
place  on  a  hot  platter  and  spread  with  softened  butter. 
Send  at  once  to  the  table. 

MRS.  A.  F.  CURTIS. 


24  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


GRILLED  CHICKEN. 

Take  a  young  and  tender  chicken  and  halve  it. 
Rub  well  with  butter  and  flour;  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Lay  in  a  well  buttered  dripping-pan, 
place  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  about  an  hour.  Serve 
with  giblet  sauce. 

MRvS.  A.  H.  GRAVES. 

MUTTON  PIE  PLAIN. 

Take  cold  mutton  cut  in  thin  slices;  put  in  pud- 
ding dish  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  mix  two 
tablespoons  of  flour  wath  cold  water,  then  pour  on 
to  this  one  pint  of  boiling  water;  season  and  pour  over 
the  meat.  Make  a  paste  as  for  plain  pie  crust,  and 
cover  it.     Bake  one  hour. 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

Boil  three  chickens  until  tender;  place  a  layer  of 
chicken  in  pan,  add  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  then 
another  layer  of  chicken  and  so  on  until  the  pan  is 
filled,  pour  in  broth  of  chicken.  Cover  with  a  baking 
powder  crust  made  as  follows:  Three  pints  of  flour, 
four  teaspoons  baking  powder,  three  tablespoons 
shortening,  three  cups  of  milk,  salt.  Place  a  little 
butter  on  top  of  pie  before  baking. 

POT  ROAST. 

Take  a  good  sized  piece  of  meat  for  boiling.  Sear 
over  all  sides  by  placing  in  a  hot  kettle  and  turning 
until  all  the  sides  are  brown.  Place  water  enough  in 
the  kettle  to  keep  from  burning,  and  cover  closely  to 
keep  in  steam.  Cook  slowly  four  or  five  hours 
(adding  water  as  it  boils  away.)  At  the  last  allow 
nearly  all  the  water  to  boil  away  and  make  a  brown 
gravy  if  desired  by  adding  a  little  flour  and  butter 
and  boiling  water. 

MRS.  R.  BILLINGS. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  25 

MOCK  DUCK. 

spread  a  round  steak  with  butter  or  pork  fat,  salt, 
pepper,  and  dredge  with  flour,  prepare  a  dressing  of 
one  cup  bread  crumbs  (soaked,)  one  Qgg,  one-half 
chopped  onion,  a  little  chopped  pork,  salt  and  pepper, 
spread  the  dressing  on  the  steak  and  roll  as  you 
would  roll  jell}^  cake,  tie  in  place,  basting  frequently, 
serve  with  a  gravy,  cut  into  rounds. 

MRS.  CHARLES  GRAVES. 

ESCALLOPED  MEAT. 

Take  cold  roast  beef  or  chicken,  chop  fine,  butter 
a  deep  dish  and  fill  with  alternate  layers  of  bread 
crumbs  and  meat,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter, 
moisten  with  milk  or  beef  gravy.  Bake  one-half 
hour. 

MRS.  F.  H.  BARDWELL. 

ESCALLOPED  MEAT. 

Boil  pieces  of  roast  beef  until  tender,  when  cold 
strain  out  all  fat  and  take  meat  out  of  the  stock,  chop 
meat  fine,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  one  quart  of  canned 
tomatoes  with  an  onion  sliced  in  it  for  half  an  hour, 
strain  this,  add  the  tomato  juice  to  the  seasoned  meat, 
a  pint  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  butter  a  baking 
dish  put  in  a  layer  of  crumbs  well  moistened  with 
stock,  on  this  put  a  layer  of  seasoned  meat,  another 
layer  of  crumbs  and  stock  and  meat,  dot  the  top  with 
bits  of  butter,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three-quarters 
of  an  hour. 

MRS.  R.  M.  WOODS. 

STUFFED  BEEF. 

Take  a  beefsteak,  (round)  pound  well.  Make  a 
good  dressing,  (same  as  for  turkey)  and  roll  inside, 
pin  together  with  skewers,  dust  with  flour.  Season 
well  and  bake  quickl}^,  about  three  quarters  of  an 
hour.     Have  the  pan  hot. 

MRS.  A.  H.  GRAVES. 


26  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE. 

The  day  before  using,  take  about  six  pounds  of 
round  of  beef,  gash  it  at  intervals  to  receive  strips  of 
salt  pork,  half  an  inch  wide.  Have  several  table- 
spoons full  of  chopped  carrots  and  onion,  also  whole 
spices,  pepper  corns,  allspice,  cloves,  salt  and  press 
some  into  the  meat,  and  lay  the  remainder  over  it  for 
the  night.  In  the  morning  put  all  into  a  large  pot, 
and  nearly  cover  with  hot  water,  close  pot  and  boil 
until  tender,  boiling  water  away,  and  browning  in  pot. 
Take  out  meat,  and  add  water  enough  to  make  gravy 
in  the  same  pot,  and  pour  over  meat  on  platter.  Must 
cook  many  hours.     Bxcellent  to  re-heat  another  day. 

MISS  NETTIE  MORTON. 

POTTED  HAM. 

Cut  all  the  meat,  fat  and  lean,  from  a  boiled  ham, 
chop  very  fine  and  pound  to  a  paste,  to  each  pint  of 
paste  add  one  teaspoonful  mustard,  a  speck  of  cayenne 
pepper,  a  little  garlic,  and  if  not  fat  enough  a  table- 
spoon of  butter,  pack  in  a  small  earthen  jar,  paste 
paper  over  the  top  and  put  on  the  cover,  place  the  jar 
in  a  baking  pan  of  hot  water  in  the  oven,  bake  slowly 
two  hours,  when  cold  take  of  co\  er  and  pour  over 
melted  butter.  Cover  again  and  set  away  in  cool 
place. 

MRS.  M.  E.  MILLER. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

Boil  a  chicken  until  tender,  take  the  meat  from 
the  bones,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  pour 
in  enough  of  the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in  to  moisten 
well  and  pour  in  any  shape  3'ou  choose,  placing 
alternate  layers  of  light  and  dark  meat,  when  cold 
turu  out  and  slice. 

MRS.  R.  BILLINGS. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  27 


VEAL  PATTIE. 

Three  pounds  of  veal  chopped  fine,  one  pound  of 
salt  pork,  one  coffeecup  of  rolled  crackers,  two  tea- 
spoons salt,  two  small  teaspoons  of  pepper,  four  eggs, 
mix  thoroughly,  and  bake  two  hours  in  a  slow  oven. 

MRvS.  KNIGHT. 
ROUND  STEAK. 

Chop  round  steak  thoroughly  on  both  sides,  but 
leave  it  in  one  piece,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
place  in  a  hot  spider  in  which  3'ou  have  before  placed 
a  piece  of  butter,  fr}-  brown. 

FRIED  TRIPE. 

Take  good  fat  honeycomb  tripe,  let  stand  in  hot 
water  a  few  moments,  drain,  and  wipe  dry,  dip  in  ^gg, 
and  then  roll  in  fine  cracker  crumbs,  fry  in  butter  or 
fat  until  a  delicate  brown  on  both  sides,  lay  on  platter, 
and  add  a  little  butter  and  salt.     Serve  hot. 

MUTTON  PIE  WITH  TOMATOES. 

Chop  mutton  fine  as  for  hash,  put  in  dish  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  then  a  layer  of 
sliced  tomatoes,  then  soft  boiled  rice  spread  on  top,  a 
little  more  butter,  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

MEAT  PIE. 

Pieces  of  cold  roast  beef  may  be  placed  in  a  baking 
dish  and  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  a  little 
wetting.  A  baking  powder  crust  may  be  placed  over 
this,  or  some  prefer  mashed  potato. 

RAGOUT  OF  MEAT. 

Two  cups  chopped  cold  meat,  one  cup  rolled 
cracker,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  nioisten  with 
milk  or  beef  grav}^  shape  into  balls,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs,  then  in  ^gg^  again  in  crumbs,  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  fifteen  minutes  or  until  brown. 

MRS.  CUTLER. 


28  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

BEEFSTEAK  SMOTHERED  IN  ONIONS. 

Fr)'  brown  four  slices  of  salt  pork,  when  brown 
take  out  the  pork  and  put  in  six  onions  sliced  thin, 
fry  ten  minutes  stirring  all  the  time,  then  take  out 
all  except  a  thin  layer,  and  upon  this  la^^  a  slice  of 
steak,  then  a  layer  of  onions,  then  steak  and  cover 
with  onions,  dredge  each  layer  with  salt,  pepper  and 
flour,  pour  over  this  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  and 
cover  tight,  simmer  half  an  hour.  When  you  dish 
place  the  steak  in  center  of  dish  and  heap  the  onions 
around  it. 


BEEFSTEAK    OMELET. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  steak,  chop  fine,  add  one 
^gg^  small  piece  of  butter,  little  salt,  half  cup  milk, 
bake  half  an  hour. 

MRS.  CHARLES  BARTLETT. 


VEAL    LOAF.  — EXCELLENT. 

Four  pounds  lean  veal,  well  done,  and  one  pound 
raw  salt  pork,  chop  together  fine,  add  one  tablespoon 
pepper,  salt,  two  tablespoons  of  sage,  four  tablespoons 
of  bread  crumbs,  four  eggs  and  half  pint  sweet  cream, 
mix  eggs,  cream,  bread  crumbs  and  seasoning  together, 
then  add  the  meat  and  mix  thoroughly,  press  into  a 
deep  dish  and  bake  four  hours,  lay  bits  of  butter  on 
top  before  baking,  to  be  eaten  cold,  slice  thin. 


BEEF  LOAF. 

Three  pounds  fresh  beef  chopped  fine,  two  cups 
cracker  crumbs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sweet  milk,  two 
eggs,  butter  the  size  of  an  o^gg.,  salt,  pepper  and  sage  if 
you  choose,  bake  slowly  two  hours. 

MRS.  C.  L.  WARNER. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


29 


30  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


HATFIELD   OOOK  BOOK.  31 


32  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES  FOR  MEATS. 


GIBLET  SAUCE. 


Take  heart,  livers  and  gizzard;  (chicken)  boil,  chop 
fine;  make  a  drawn  butter  gravy;  add  the  giblets; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

BROWN  GRAVY  SAUCE. 

Set  the  pan  in  which  the  meat  was  roasted  on  the 
range;  add  boiling  water,  scrape  toward  the  center  the 
browned  flour  from  the  sides  and  bottom,  thicken  with 
small  quantity  of  flour,  season  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt,  to  be  used  with  roast  beef. 

OYSTER  SAUCE. 

Make  drawn  butter  gravy,  season  to  taste,  add 
raw  oysters,  chopped  a  little.  Nice  to  eat  with  roast 
turkey, 

MINT  SAUCE. 

To  two  tablespoons  of  chopped  mint,  add  one  table- 
spoon of  white  sugar,  and  nearly  two-thirds  of  a  cup 
of  vinegar.  Let  them  stand  ten  minutes  in  a  cool  place 
before  sending  to  table, 

MARION  HARLAND. 

CAPER  SAUCE  FOR  LEG  OF  LAMB. 

Make  drawn  butter  gravy  from  drippings  left  from 
steaming,  add  capers  more  or  less,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt. 


84  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

GRAVY  FOR  BOILED  OR  BAKED  FISH. 

One-quarter  pound  butter,  large  spoon  flour, 
thoroughly  mixed.  One  cup  boiling  water.  Salt  if 
needed.  Take  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  ei^gs, 
pulverize  and  add  to  the  above.  Cook  three  minutes 
before  egg  is  added. 

BREAD  SAUCE. 
Two  cups  of  milk,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one- 
quarter  of  a  good  sized  onion;  one  tablespoon  of  butter, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  let  onion  and  milk  come  to  a 
boil  together,  have  bread  very  dry,  roll  fine  and  sift 
through  a  flour  sieve  put  in  milk  and  cook  ten 
minutes,  then  take  out  the  onion  and  add  butler  and 
seasoning.  Put  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  small  fry 
pan,  when  very  hot  add  coarse  crumbs  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  crisp  and  bro^n,  sprinkle  over  birds  or 
game  of  any  kind  and  pour  sauce  around  and  serve. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 
One  quart  can  tomatoes,  two  tablespoons  of  butter, 
two  of  flour,  two  cloves  and  a  small  slice  of  onion. 
Cook  tomatoes  onions  and  cloves  ten  minutes,  heat 
the  butter  in  frying  pan  and  add  the  flour,  stir  into 
the  tomato  and  cook  ten  minutes,  season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  put  through  a  strainer.  Nice  for 
fish  and  meat 

TART  ARE  SAUCE. 
Yolks  of  two  uncooked  eggs,  one-half  cup  olive 
oil,  three  tablespoons  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  mustard, 
one  teaspoon  sugar,  one-quarter  teaspoon  pepper, 
one  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  onion  juice,  one 
tablespoon  of  chopped  capers,  one  tablespoon 
chopped  cucumber  pickks.  Beat  yolks  well  and 
add  seasoning  and  mustard  mixed  together  add 
drop  by  drop  the  oil  alternately  with  the  vinegar  beat- 
ing all  the  while,  then  add  capers  and  cucumber  pick- 
les.    Serve  with  fish  or  cauliflower. 

M.  K.  BARNES. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  35 


36  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


VBQBTABUBS. 


Cheerful  looks  make  every  dish  a  feast. 

(Massinger.) 


VEGETABLES — prepauing  and  cooking. 

All  green  vegetables  must  be  washed  in  cold  water 
and  dropped  into  water  which  has  been  salted  and  just 
beginning  to  boil.  There  should  be  a  tablespoon  of 
salt  to  every  two  quarts  of  water.  The  3'onnger  and 
more  freshl}^  gathered  the  more  quickly  they  are 
cooked. 


Potatoes,   boiled, Thirty  to  forty  minutes. 

Potatoes,  baked, Forty  five  minutes. 

Sweet  Potatoes,   boiled, Forty-five  minutes. 

Squash,  boiled, Twenty-five   minutes. 

Squash,    baked, Forty-five   minutes. 

Green  Peas,  boiled,   •   .   .   .   .   Twenty  to  forty  minutes. 

Shell    Beans, One   hour. 

String  Beans, One  to  two  hours. 

Green  Corn, Twenty-five  minutes. 

Asparagus, Fifteen  to  thirty   minutes. 

Spinach, One  to  two    hours. 

Cabbage, Forty-five  minutes  to   two  hours. 

Dandelion  Greens, Two  to  three   hours. 

Beet  Greens, One    hour. 

( )nions, One   to   two   hours. 

Beets, One  to  five  hours. 

White  Turnips, Forty-five  minutes. 

Parsnips, Thirty  to  forty  minutes. 

Carrots, One  to  two  hours. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


POTATO    SOUFFLE. 

Boil  four  good  sized  potatoes,  pass  them  through  a 
sieve,  scald  one-half  cup  milk  aud  one  tablespoon 
butter  add  to  the  potato  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
and  beat  to  a  cream,  add  (one  at  a  time)  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs,  beating  thoroughly,  drop  into  the  whites 
a  small  pinch  of  salt,  and  beat  to  a  stiff  froth  add  to 
mixture,  beating  as  little  as  possible.  Bake  twenty 
minutes  in  well  buttered  baking  dish.  Serve  at  once, 
to  be  eaten  with  meats  that  have  gravies. 


STUFFED  AND  BAKED  TOxMATOES. 

Take  as  many  tomatoes  as  j^our  dish  will  hold, 
smooth,  and  solid  Cut  a  small  piece  from  top,  and 
carefully  remove  the  pulp  and  seeds.  Make  a  dressing 
of  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt  and  sage, 
mix  with  pulp  carefully,  stuff  tomatoes  and  add  a  piece 
of  butter  on  the  top  of  each.  Bake  about  half  an 
hour. 


TO  BOIL  CAULIFLOWER. 

Put  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  briskly  from  twenty 
minutes  to  one-half  hour  keeping  the  sauce  pan  un- 
covered, skimming  the  water  several  times.  When 
tender,  drain  and  place  in  the  dish.  Serve  with  butter, 
a  white  sauce  or  drawn  butter. 


STUFFED  POTATOES. 

Take  large,  fair  potatoes,  bake  until  soft,  cut  small 
piece  from  one  end,  and  carefully  remove  the  inside 
without  breaking  the  skin.  Prepare  as  for  mashed 
potato  using  milk,  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Stuff  the  potatoes  and  put  in  oven  to  keep  hot  until 
wanted  for  table. 

MRS.  G.  w.  c. 


HATFIELD    COOK   BOOK.  3'J 


BOILED  DINNER. 

Wash  a  piece  of  corned  beef  weighing  about  five 
ponnds,  put  into  one  gallon  of  cold  water,  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil  ,skim  carefully  aud  boil  slowly  three 
hours.  At  the  beginning  of  the  last  two  hours  add  a 
large  head  of  cabbage,  cut  in  two.  An  hour  later  add 
carrots  and  turnips  nicely  cleaned.  Lastly  add  pota- 
toes, allowing  one-half  hour  for  them  to  boil.  Cook 
beets  in  a  separate  kettle. 

MRS.  C.   E.  HUBBARD. 

BOILING  VEGETABLES. 

In  boiling  beef  and  vegetables,  put  a  tea  cup  of 
vinegar  into  the  pot  when  the  v/ater  is  cold,  and  the 
beef  will  be  much  tenderer,  and  cabbage  and  beets 
better  flavored  and  will  not  fill  the  house  with  unplea- 
sant smell.  The  vinegar  will  not  affect  the  taste  of 
food.  Rule: — All  vegetables  to  go  into  fast  boiling 
water,  to  be  quickly  brought  to  the  boiling  point  again, 
not  left  to  steep  in  the  hot  w^ater  before  boiling,  which 
toughens  them  and  destroys  color  and  flavor. 

MRS.  CHARLES  E.  HUBBARD. 

POTATO  BALLS. 

Take  four  large  mealy  cold  potatoes  and  mash  in 
a  pan  with  two  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  a  little  pepper,  one  tablespoon  of  cream 
and  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  ^gg.  Rub  all  together  for 
about  five  minutes  or  until  very  soft,  shape  into  round 
balls  dip  them  into  fine  sifted  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard. 

S.  G.  LANGDON. 

FRIED  PARSNIPS. 

Boil  until  tender  remove  the  skin  and  cool,  cut  in 
lengthwise  nice  slices,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  pork  fat, 
until  nicely  browned,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
butter,  serve  hot. 


40  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

A  NICE  WAV  TO    COOK  CABBAGE. 

With  a  sharp  knife  cut  a  small  cabbage  into  small 
pieces,  boil  one  hour  in  salted  water,  drain  through  a 
colander,  take  one  cup  sweet  milk,  piece  of  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  a  little  salt,  heat  hot,  but  do  not  boil,  put 
the  cabbage  into  this  mixture  and  let  stand  on  stove 
until  well  warmed  through.  Dish,  sprinkle  with  pepper, 
send  to  the  table  hot  and  although  cabbage  it  is  really 
delicate.  Onions,  cooked  the  same  way  are  equally 
nice, 

MRS.  A.  F.  CURTIS. 

STEWED  CABBAGE. 

Cut  a  head  of  cabbage  fine  as  for  slaw,  and  boil 
half  an  hour  in  clear  water,  pour  off  this  water  and 
cover  with  salted  water,  and  cook  until  tender,  drain, 
pour  over  this  a  dressing  made  of  one-half  cup  of 
cream,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  and  one  tablespoon 
of  flour,  stirred  together  until  smooth;  this  is  good 
either  hot  or  cold  and  will  not  hurt  the  most  delicate 
stomach. 

MRS.  F.  CARIv. 

TREMONT  POTATOES. 

Take  cold  boiled  potatoes  of  uniform  medium  size, 
and  split  lengthwise  into  quarters  or  sixth?^,  fry  like 
doughnuts  in  boiling  lard  until  the  outside  is  browned 
or  crisped.  Skim  out  and  drain,  sprinkle  a  little  salt 
on  them  before  serving. 

BAKED  RICE  AND  TOMATOES. 

One  pint  of  rice,  boil  from  twelve  to  fifteen 
minutes;  pour  off  water  through  a  colander,  put  the 
rice  into  a  steamer  for  one  hour  or  until  dry,  and  each 
grain  is  like  pop  corn.  Have  your  tomatoes  boiled 
and  pour  over  rice.  Butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.      Bake  until  brown,  and  serve  hot. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  41 


BEET  HASH. 

Add  usual  quantity  of  meat  and  potato,  one-third 
quantity  of  boiled  beets  moisten  with  cream  if  possible, 
if  not  use  milk,  can  be  made  with  or  without  meat, 
season  to  taste. 

MRS.  A.  L.   BARDWELL. 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS. 

Mash  parsnips  fine,  then  add  one  tablespoonful 
flour,  one  ^gg,  season,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  make 
patties,  and  fr}^  in  butter. 

MISS  E.  SHATTUCK. 

MACARONI  BOILED. 

Break  up  and  wash  a  pint  bowl  full  of  macaroni, 
put  in  a  shallow  basin  and  cover  with  coid  water,  set 
this  basin  into  another,  and  place  on  the  fire,  after 
fifteen  minutes  add  a  pint  of  milk  and  a  teaspoon  of 
salt.  Let  it  cook  ten  minutes  longer,  then  add  a 
spoonful  of  butter  and  cook  five  minutes  longer  The 
macaroni  left  from  one  dinner  can  be  used  by  placing 
in  a  buttered  shallow  dish,  then  grate  cheese  over  it 
and  brown. 

MISS  PARLOA. 
iMACARONI  IN  CREAM. 

Wash  a  pint  of  macaroni,  and  put  in  a  basin  with 
cold  milk,  set  this  in  another  basin  with  some  water 
and  let  it  stand  twenty  minutes  on  the  fire,  then  take 
off  and  when  it  gets  cold  stir  in  one  teaspoon  of  salt, 
and  three  well  beaten  eggs,  turn  into  shallow  dish  and 
bake  twenty  minutes. 

AN  OLD-FASHIONED  DISH. 

Fry  several  slices  of  salt  pork  brown,  and  take 
from  the  spider,  place  in  the  fat,  sliced  sour  apples 
cover  and  fry,  take  these  out  and  put  in  potatoes 
sliced  thin,  serve  apples  and  potatoes  with  pork. 


42  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK 

BAKED  BEANS. 

Soak  one  quart  of  beans  over  night  pour  off  the 
water,  and  cook  in  fresh  water  until  they  crack  open, 
then  put  them  in  an  earthen  dish,  cover  with  water. 
(Add  a  little  molasses  if  you  like  them  sweet  )  Put 
in  center  of  the  dish  one  half  pound  of  salt  pork, 
parboiled,  and  scored  across  the  rind.  Bake  slowly 
four  hours,  until  brown 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  43 


44  ■     HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  45 


46  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  DISHES. 


"Dinner  may  be  pleasant- 
So  may  social  tea; 
But  yet  methinks  the  breakfast 
Is  best  of  all  the  three." 


DUCHESS  POTATOES. 

Boil  potatoes  as  usual  to  mash,  when  done,  drain, 
and  add  two  ounces  of  butter,  two  eggs,  a  bit  of  white 
pepper  and  salt.  Press  through  a  sieve,  form  into 
little  oval  loaves,  flat  on  top,  mark  with  a  knife,  put 
melted  butter  on  top,  and  brown  in  oven. 

MISS.  LUCY  WEBBER. 

ESCOLLOPED  POTATOES. 

Butter  a  deep  dish  and  fill  with  cold  sliced  potatoes, 
sprinkle  salt  over  the  potatoes,  scald  one  quart  of 
milk,  boil  two  tablespoons  butter  on  stove,  when 
boiling  add  one-half  cup  of  flour,  then  stir  in  gradually 
the  milk,  until  it  thickens,  seasoning  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Then  pour  in  the  potatoes,  place  cracker 
crumbs  on  top  mixed  with  melted  butter.  Bake  one- 
half  hour. 

MRS.  F.  H.  BARDWELL. 
POTATO  CAKES. 

Two  cups  mashed  potatoes,  one  beaten  egg,  one 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Form  into 
balls,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

MRS.  C.  A.  JONES. 


48  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK 


RISOTTO  NAPOLITAINE. 

One  onion,  one  ounce  butter,  one  pound  rice,  one 
quart  beef  stock,  tliree  ounces  grated  cheese.  Cut 
a  medium  sized  onion  into  small  pieces,  and  put  into 
sauce  pan  on  stove  with  one  ounce  of  butter.  Cook 
about  fifteen  minutes  or  until  lightly  colored.  Wash 
the  rice,  blanch  ten  minutes  in  boiling  water,  then 
put  in  cold  water  for  a  minute,  drain  and  put  in 
sauce  pan  with  onion  and  beef  stock.  Simmer  gently 
for  fifty  minutes  and  add  the  grated  cheese,  dash  of 
pepper,  salt  and  cayenne.  Stir  well  together  boil  a 
few  minutes,  and  serve  hot. 

MISS  M.  K.  BARNES. 


GRAHAM  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Two  quarts  of  sweet  milk  or  skim  milk,  two 
tablespoons  of  molasses,  five  teaspoons  of  salt,  one-half 
of  a  yeast  cake,  one  quart  and  half  of  graham 
flour,  one  quart  and  a  fourth  of  wheat  flour.  Stir  all 
together  the  night  before.  L-et  rise  until  morning, 
then  fry  on  a  hot  iron,  and  serve  immediately.  Cakes 
for  a  family  of  nine. 

MRS.  F.  H.  BARDWELL. 


POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

Six  large  cooked  potatoes,  one  tablespoon  of  butter; 
one  wineglass  of  cream,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  salt  to 
taste.  Peel,  boil  and  mash  potatoes  until  perfectly 
smooth,  then  add  the  butter,  cream  and  lastly  eggs. 
Shape  as  croquettes,  dip  in  Q:gg  and  bread  and 
cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  a  nice  brown. 
It  would  be  well  after  mixing  to  let  stand  in  a  cold 
place  for  an  hour. 

MISS  HARRIET  BYRNE. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  4!> 

SWEET  BREADS  ON  TOAST. 

Boil  sweet  breads  twenty  minutes,  remove  the 
skin,  and  tough  fibre.  Make  cream  sauce  of  one  pint 
milk  thickened  with  tablespoon  of  flour  when  boiling, 
and  a  little  butter  and  salt.  Cut  the  sweet  breads 
into  dice  and  add  to  the  boiling  sauce,  boil  a  minute 
and  serve  on  pieces  of  toast. 

MIvSS  M.  K.  BARNES. 

CROQUETTES. 

One  cup  chopped  lobster  or  chicken,  one  saltspoon 
of  dry  mustard,  one  saltspoon  of  salt,  a  little  pepper. 
Make  white  sauce  as  follows:  One  cup  scalded  milk, 
tw^o  tablespoons  butter,  two  tablespoons  flour.  Stir 
butter  and  flour  'till  smooth.  Add  hot  milk  and 
chopped  meat.  When  cool  roll  a  large  spoon  of  the 
mixture  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  then  in  beaten 
^gg^  then  in  crumbs  again.  Fry  in  hot  fat  until 
brown. 

MRS.  I.  B.  LOWELL. 

RICE   OMELET. 

One  cup  cold  boiled  rice,  four  teaspoons  milk, 
two  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  one- 
half  saltspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  butter.  Heat 
butter  very  hot  in  frying  pan,  then  pour  in  other 
ingredients  mixed  well  together.  Cover  and  bake 
about  ten  minutes  in  moderate  oven,  until  stiff. 
Double  and  turn  it  out  carefully  onto  hot  platter. 

MRS.  A.   H.  GRAVES. 

VEAL  PATTEE. 

Three  pounds  finely  chopped  veal,  one  pound  salt 
pork,  one  coffee  cup  rolled  crackers,  tw^o  tea  spoons 
salt,  two  small  tea  spoons  pepper,  four  eggs,  mix 
thoroughly,  bake  two  hours  in  slow  oven. 

MRS.  KNIGHT. 


50  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 

One  large  cup  cooked  rice,  one-half  cup  milk, 
one  Qgg^  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon 
butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  little  grating  of 
nutmeg.  Put  milk  in  a  dish  and  add  rice  and 
seasoning.  When  it  boils  up,  add  the  well  beaten 
Qigg.  Stir  a  minute,  then  take  off  and  cool.  When 
cold,  shape  and  roll  well  in  egg  and  crumbs,  drop  in 
boiling  lard  and  fry  until  brown. 

MISS  M.  K.  BARNES. 
CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

Two  finely  chopped  cups  chicken,  butter  size  of 
an  egg.,  one  large  spoon  flour,  one  large  cup  of  water, 
one-half  teacup  of  milk.  Melt  butter  and  flour 
together,  then  add  milk  and  water.  Cook  this  to 
consistency  of  drawn  butter.  Then  add  cup  bread 
crumbs.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  add 
chicken  and  cook  slowly  a  few  moments.  When  done 
spread  in  a  dish  to  cool,  then  make  into  balls,  dip 
in  beaten  egg.,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard.  This  rule  makes  twelve.  Veal  can  be 
used  instead  of  chicken. 

MRS.  A.  H.  GRAVES. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

One  solid  pint  of  finely  chopped  chicken  or  lamb, 
(cooked,)  one  tablespoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon 
pepper  one  cup  cream  or  chicken  stock,  one  table- 
spoon flour,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoon  onion  juice,  one 
tablespoon  lemon  juice,  one  pint  bread  crumbs,  little 
parsley,  three  tablespoons  butter.  Put  stock  or  cream 
on  to  boil.  Mix  flour  and  butter  together  and  stir 
into  it.  Then  add  chicken  and  seasoning.  Boil  for 
two  minutes  and  add  two  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten. 
Then  take  from  fire  and  set  away  to  cool.  When 
cold,  shape  and  fry,  using  the  other  two  eggs  to  dip 
the  balls  into. 

MRS.  G.  B.  BARNES. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  61 

CHICKEN  SOUFFLE. 

One  pint  finely  chopped  cooked  chicken,  one  pint 
cream  sauce,  four  eggs,  one  tablespoon  onion  juice, 
salt  and  pepper.  Stir  the  chicken  into  the  boiling 
sauce,  cook  two  minutes.  Add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Then  add  the 
whites  well  beaten.  Turn  into  a  buttered  dish  and 
bake  half  an  hour. 

MRS.  G.  B.  BARNES. 

ESCOLLOPED  POTATOES. 

Butter  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  tin  basin,  slice 
cold  boiled  potatoes,  place  in  the  basin  a  laj^er  of  po- 
tatoes, butter,  pepper  and  salt,  dust  flour  over  it. 
Another  layer  of  potatoes,  with  seasoning  and  so  on, 
until  the  dish  is  filled.  Place  on  top  a  layer  of 
cracker  crumbs,  and  over  the  whole  a  large  cup  of 
cream.     Bake  in  steady  oven  half  an  hour. 

CREAM  POTATOES. 

One  pint  cold  chopped  potatoes,  one  cup  milk,  one 
tablespoon  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt.  Heat  milk  in  a 
sauce  pan,  stir  flour  in  cold  milk  until  smooth,  add 
to  the  boiling  milk,  put  potatoes  into  the  cream  and 
stir  until  well  heated,  add  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
put  into  oven  to  brown. 

MRS.  B.  M.  WARNER. 
SMOTHERED  SAUSAGE. 

Prick  link  sausages  with  large  needle  in  fifteen  or 
twenty  places.  Put  in  frying  pan  in  which  is  half 
cup  hot  water,  roll  sausages  over  in  this  several 
times  and  cover  closely.  Put  the  pan  where  the  water 
will  boil  slowly  for  ten  minutes,  roll  sausages  over 
again  two  or  three  times  and  cook  the  other  side  ten 
minutes.  Turn  twice  more,  at  intervals  of  five  minutes. 
Cover  and  let  steam  five  minutes  before  serving. 

MRS.  D.  BILLINGS. 


52  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

Boil  a  chicken  until  tender,  take  the  meat  from 
the  bones,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Pour 
in  enough  of  the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in  to  moisten 
well,  and  put  in  an\'  shape  yon  choose,  placing 
alternate  layers  of  light  and  dark  meat.  When  cold 
turn  out  and  slice. 

MRS.  R.  BILLINGS. 

BEEF  LOAF. 

Three  pounds  fresh  beef  chopped  fine,  two  cups 
cracker  crumbs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sweet  milk, 
two  eggs,  butter  size  of  an  Qgg^,  salt,  pepper  and  sage 
if  you  choose.     Bake  slowly  two  hours. 

MRS.  C.  L.  WARNER. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

Two  pounds  uncooked  veal,  chopped  very  fine,  one- 
half  pound  salt  pork,  chopped  very  fine,  two  eggs, 
one  pound  pounded  crackers,  three  tablespoons  of 
salt,  two  talDlespoons  of  pepper,  one  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  little  sage.     Press  hard  and  bake  two  hours. 

MRS.  PEASE. 

APPLE  FRITTERS. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  flour,  one 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  three  apples  sliced  thin, 
little  salt.  Drop  in  hot  fat,  a  tablespoon  at  a  time. 
Brown  like  doughnuts,  sprinkle  on  sugar  while  hot. 

MRS.  I.  B.  LOWELL. 

SNOWY  OMELET. 

Four  eggs,  four  tablespoons  of  milk,  little  salt  and 
pepper,  beat  yolks  separately,  mix  together,  leaving 
out  one-third  of  the  whites,  when  ready  to  turn  spread 
one-half  the  remaining  whites.  In  making  omelet, 
when  it  has  set  round  the  edge,  set  in  the  oven  four 
minutes,  then  take  out  and  turn. 

MRS.  S.  G.   HUBBARD. 


HATFIELD   COOK  £00K.  53 


BEEF  STEAK  OMELET. 

One  and  one-half  pound  steak,  chop  fine,  one  ^gg, 
small  piece  butter,  little  salt,  one-half  cup  milk.  Bake 
one-half  an  hour 

MRS.  CHARLES  BARTLETTE. 

MEAT  OMELET. 

Piece  of  cold  roast  beef  or  steak,  chopped  fine,  to 
one  cup  meat  add  one  Q^gg,  beaten,  salt  and  {  epper. 
Mix  thoroui^hly,  drop  a  tablespoon  on  a  hot  buttered 
g'ridd'e  brown  b'  th  sides.  Chopped  oysters  ma\  hi 
used. 

MRS.  CUTLER. 

RAGOUT  OF  MEAT. 

Two  cups  chopped  cold  meat,  one  cup  rolled 
cracker,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  moisten  with 
milk  or  beef  grav}^,  shape  into  balls,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs,  then  in  eggs,  again  in  crumbs.  Bake  in  hot 
oven  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  brown. 

MRS.  CUTLER. 

OMELET. 

Four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separatel}-, 
three  tablespoons  milk  to  each  ^gg,  one  tablespoon  of 
flour,  salt,  add  beaten  whites  last.  Put  in  spider 
butter  half  size  of  an  ^gg^  cover  and  cook  slowly. 

MRS.  J.  E.  PORTER. 

PRESSED  EGGS. 

Eight  eggs  boiled  hard,  while  hot,  chop  with  salt 
and  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Press  in  deep  dish  and 
serve  cold. 

MRS.  A.  H.  GRAVES. 

EGG  OMELET. 

One  cup  milk,  one  cup  cracker  crumbs,  three  eggs 
beaten,  and  a  little  salt. 

MRS.  C.  W.  MARSH. 


54  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

WELSH   RARE  BIT. 

One-half  pound  grated  cheese,  two  eggs,  one-half 
cup  of  cream  or  milk,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  teaspoon  melted  butter,  speck  of 
cayenne,  speck  of  soda.  Melt  cheese,  when  nearly 
melted  add  other  ingredients  and  cook  until  thickened. 
Serve  on  split  crackers. 

MISS  EUNICE  MORTON. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

One  pint  of  corn  pulp,  two  beaten  eggs,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  two  tablespoons  of 
flour  or  just  enough  to  keep  corn  and  eggs  together. 

MRS.  C.  W.  MARSH. 

CORN  OYSTERS. 

One  pint  of  grated  sweet  corn,  one  Qgg  well  beaten, 
one  small  cup  of  flour,  one-half  gill  of  cream,  one 
teaspoon  of  salt.     Fry  in  hot  fat  by  teaspoon fuls. 

MRS.  HENRY  S.  HUBBARD. 

HAM  AND  EGG  ON  TOAST. 

Chop  fine  pieces  of  cold  boiled  ham,  toast  and 
butter  slices  of  bread,  spread  the  ham  on  bread  and 
place  in  oven  about  three  minutes.  Beat  six  eggs, 
(less  will  do)  with  half  cup  milk,  little  pepper  and  salt. 
Put  in  sauce  pan  with  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and 
stir  over  fire  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  take  off  and 
beat  for  a  minute,  then  spread  on  toast  and  ham. 

MRS.  C.  K.  MORTON. 

BAKED  OMELET. 

Four  eggs,  whites,  yolks  beaten  separately,  add 
to  yolks  one  tablespoon  flour,  two  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  one  cup  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  stir  in 
whites  of  eggs.  Butter  the  dish  and  bake  fifteen 
minutes. 

MISS  CORNELIA  BILLINGS. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  55 


BAKED  EGGS. 

Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  add 
little  salt,  place  on  buttered  dish  make  six  holes 
dropping  into  each  one  whole  yolk.  Bake  quickly 
until  whites  are  slightly  brown. 

MRvS.  CUTLER. 

WAFFLES. 

One  pint  sweet  milk,  two  heaping  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  flour  to  make  as  thick  as  griddle  cakes. 
Then  add  three  eggs  well  beaten,  butter  size  of  an 
e^^  melted.      Fry  brown  in  waffle  iron. 

WAFFLES. 

Three  eggs,  3^olks  oijly,  one  quart  milk,  one-half 
cup  melted  butter,  one  heaping  teaspoon  baking 
powder.  Afterwards  add  whites  of  eggs,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  stiff  batter. 


5G  HATFIELD    COOK   JiOOK. 


HATFIELD   COOK  BOOK.  67 


68  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


SAUADS. 


"Now  good  digestion  wait  on  appetite  and  health  on  both." 

(Shakespeare.) 


CHICKEN  OR  VEAL  SALAD. 

Half  as  much  celery  as  meat,  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
cup  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  strong  mustard,  piece  of 
butter,  salt,  teaspoon  sugar.  Boil  all  together  on 
stove.     Pour  over. 

CARRIE  h.  WARNER. 


SALAD  DRESSING. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  two 
teaspoons  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper, 
two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  cup  cream  or  milk,  one-half 
cup  hot  vinegar,  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff. 

MRvS.  GEO.  BILLINGS. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Two  and  a  half  teaspoons  mustard,  one  cup 
vinegar,  three  eggs,  little  pepper  and  salt.  Boiled 
together  with  a  cup  of  butter  or  cream.  When  cold 
add  one-third  cnp  of  sugar.  Ju.'^t  before  serving  whip 
a  half  cup  cream  and  stir  into  dressing. 

MRvS.  A.  H.  GRAVES. 


60  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

ANOTHER. 

One  Q^g^  thoroughly  beaten,  one  teaspoon  mustard, 
one  tablespoon  sugar,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  one-half 
cup  vinegar.      Mix  thoroughly  and  cook  a  little. 

CABBAGE  SALAD. 

Shred  cabbage  fine,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
one-half  cup  vinegar,  two  tablespoons  water,  one  table- 
spoon butter,  two  tablespoons  sugar.  Let  it  come  to 
a  boil;  when  cool  beat  in  one-half  cup  of  cream,  one 
^gg^  one-half  tablespo(m  flour.  Let  all  boil  up  once, 
add  the  cabbage,  mix  while  hot. 

S.  G.  LANGDON. 

CREAM  SALAD. 

Chop  fine  one-half  head  of  cabbage.  Stir  into  it 
one-half  cup  cream  and  a  little  salt.  Heat  one-half 
cup  vinegar  stirring  into  it  the  beaten  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  mustard. 
Pour  over  the  cabbage  as  it  goes  to  the  table. 

MISvS  CARRIE  WARNER. 

CABBAGE  SALAD. 

One  small  head  of  cabbage  sliced  or  chopped  fine, 
one  cup  sweet  milk  boiling  hot,  a  little  less  than  a 
cup  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  two  eggs,  well 
beaten,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one  teaspoon  extract 
of  celery,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Heat  milk  and 
vinegar  separately,  when  vinegar  boils  add  the  butter, 
sugar,  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  up  once  and  stir  in  the 
cabbage.  Heat  to  scalding  heat  (do  not  boil.)  To 
the  hot  milk  add  the  eggs  and  cook  one  minute  after 
it  begins  to  thicken.  Put  cabbage  into  a  deep  dish, 
pour  on  the  custard,  stirring  quickly,  tossing  up 
mixture  with  a  silver  fork.  Cover  close  and  put  on 
ice. 

MRS.  E.  GRAVES. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  61 

BOILED  DRESSING. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  mnstard,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  a  little  cayenne,  one  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one-half  cup 
vinegar,  one  cup  cream  or  milk,  mix  together  and 
cook  like  boiled  custard.  Tlie  whites  of  eggs  may  be 
beaten  and  added  just  before  serving  to  make  more 
in  quantity,  but  better  without. 

MRS.   M.   K.   MORTON,   MRvS.   M.  II.   BURKE. 


SALAD  DRESSING. 

Two  eggs  beaten  light,  one-half  cup  vinegar,  one 
teaspoon  each  of  mustard,  sugar  and  salt,  mixed 
together  with  a  little  hot  w^ater  until  smooth.  Pour 
the  egg  into  the  mixture,  add  one  cup  of  cream  or 
butter,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  it  thickens. 

MRS.  R.  M.  WOODS. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

Two  boiled  lobsters  chopped  with  lettuce,  not  very 
fine,  also  the  whites  of  four  hard  boiled  eggs,  rub  the 
yolks  in  a  bowl  with  one  teaspoon  mustard,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  small  teaspoon  sugar,  little  cayenne 
pepper,  butter  size  of  an  &gg  (melted  )  Add  vinegar 
to  taste,  a  half  cup  or  so.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves 
after  mixing  with  the  dressing. 

MRS.  E.   C.   BYRNE. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Two  well  beaten  eggs,  one  tablespoon  made  mus- 
tard, two  tablespoons  sugar,  three  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  two- thirds  cup  of  vinegar,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt  Cook  as  boiled  custard  in  kettle  of  water.  Stir 
briskh'  after  taking  from  the  fire  that  it  may  be 
smooth. 

MRS.  C.  W.  MARSH. 


62  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


POTATO  SALAD. 

One  dozen  cold  potatoes  sliced  thin,  one-half  tea- 
spoon mustard,  one-half  teaspoon  pepper,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  buttei' size  of  an  egg,  one-half  cup  vinegar,  one- 
half  cup  water,  chop  celery  or  a  little  onion  with 
potatoes.  Let  the  dressing  simmer  and  pour  over  the 
potato  while  hot, 

MRS.  FRED  CARL. 

ANOTHER. 

Six  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  in  small  cubes.  One 
or  two  stalks  of  celery  cut  in  thin  slices,  put  in  salad 
dish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  (if  you  like  a  little 
parsley  may  be  used,)  then  pour  over  it  the  dressing. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Have  a  tablespoon  of  mustard,  or  half  as  much, 
with  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  mix  with  it  gradually 
two  tablespoons  olive  oil  or  melted  butter,  stir  into 
this  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  add 
three  beaten  eggs  and  mix  thoroughly,  then  add  a 
cup  of  milk  or  cream,  and  a  cup  of  vinegar.  Cook 
like  soft  custard. 

MRS.   E.  A.  HUBBARD. 

VEAL  SALAD. 

One  small  teaspoon  salt.  One  large  teaspoon 
mixed  mustard,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  two  raw  eggs, 
butter,  size  of  an  egg;  beat  thoroughly,  then  add  one 
teacup  vinegar.  Set  in  dish  of  boiling  water  and  stir 
until  it  thickens.  One  and  one-half  pounds  veal  and 
half  as  much  celerv. 

MISS  EUNICE  J.  MORTON. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  63 


WBIQHTS  AIND  MEASURBS. 


The  foUowiug  is  a  table  of  weights  and  measures. 

4  tablespoons,    ....    1-2  gill  or  i  wine  glass  or  1-4  cup. 
I  tablespoon 1-2  ounce. 

1  pint, 1  pound. 

2  gills, I  cup  or  1-2  pint. 

I  quart  of  flour, i  pound. 

4  cups, I  quart  or  1  pound. 

I  rounded  tablespoon  flour, 1-2  ounce. 

3  cups  of  corn  meal, i  pound. 

I  cup  of  butter, 1-2  pound. 

I  pint  of  butter, i  pound. 

1  tablespoon  of  butter, i  ounce. 

1  solid  pint  of  chopped  meat, i  pound. 

10  eggs, I  pound. 

2  cups  granulated   sugar, i  pound. 

2  1-2  cups  of  powdered  sugar, i  pound. 

I  pint  of  brown  sugar, 13  ounces. 


BREADS, 


"The  very   staff  of  life.    The  comfort  of  the  husband— and  the  pride 
of  the  wife." 


POTATO  YEAST. 

At  noon  take  2  common  sized  potatoes,  mash 
them  well.  Add  i  tablespoon  of  salt,  i  tablespoon 
of  sugar.  Pour  over  this  i  pint  of  boiling  water, 
then  I  quart  of  cold  water.  Dissolve  ^  yeast  cake, 
and  let  it  rise  until  night.  Then  make  your  bread 
with  only  the  water.  Keep  the  settlings  to  raise  your 
yeast  next  time.     This  will  make  4  loaves  of  bread. 

MRS.  ERNEST  GODIN. 

POTATO  YEAST. 

4  large  boiled  potatoes,  3  tablespoons  flour,  2 
tablespoons  sugar,  i  tablespoon  salt.  mix.  Pour 
boiling  water  over  this  and  strain.  When  cool  add 
I  cent's  worth  brewers'  yeast.      Bottle. 

MRS.  ED.  GRAVES. 

WHEAT  BREAD. 

I  pint  milk,  i  pint  water.  Warm  milk  and  water. 
Add  I  tablespoon  sugar,  i  teaspoon  salt,  ^4  cent's 
worth  of  yeast.  Stir  in  flour  sufficient  for  thin  batter. 
Let  it  stand  until  light.  Mould  in  flour  until  it  will 
not  stick,  let  rise  again.  Mould  into  loaves.  Makes  2 
loaves. 

MRS.  ED.  GRAVES. 


e,(i  HATFIELD    CODE  BOOK. 


BREAD  TWICE  RAISED. 

3  pints  milk  scalded  and  cooled,  3  quarts  of  floury 
(or  enough  for  stiff  sponge,)  i  tablespoon  sugar,  i 
teaspoon  salt,  ^  cake  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  a 
little  water.  Mix  thoroughly  and  let  rise  over  night. 
In  the  morning  knead  one-half  hour,  and  let  rise 
again.  Then  mould  into  loaves,  and  when  light 
enough  bake  from  fifty  minutes  to  one  hour.  Three 
loaves. 

MRS.  N.  t).  BILLINGS. 

WHEAT  BREAD. 

1^4  quarts  warm  flour,  i^  pints  milk  scalded  and 
cooled  and  well  beaten,  y^  cake  yeast  dissolved  in 
little  tepid  water.  Stir  together  and  let  rise  over 
nijrht.  In  the  morning  add  one  teaspoon  salt,  one 
tablespoon  sugar,  }4  tablespoon  shortening,  flour 
enough  to  knead.  Let  rise;  when  well  risen  put  in  two 
pans  and  let  them  rise  to  twice  their  size  and  put  in 
oven  to  bake. 

MISS  L.  D.  PORTER. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

2  cups  white  flour,  2  cups  graham  flour,  i  cup  milk, 
'^  tablespoons  sugar,  i  tablespoon  salt,  i  cup  water, 
3^east.  One  loaf. 

MRS.  C.  W.  MARSH. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

2  cups  of  milk,  3  cups  graham  flour,  i  cup  wheat 
flour,  }4  cup  molasses,  i  teaspoon  of  soda,  salt.  Steam 
2  hours  and  bake  one-half  hour. 

MRS.  I.  B.  LOWELL. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

2^  cups  graham  flour,  i  cup  white  flour,  i  coffee 
cup  sour  milk  with  teaspoon  of  soda  in  it,  teaspoon 
salt,  ^2  cup  molasses,  i  egg,  cover  with  tin  and  bake 
in  slow  oven  an  hour  and  a  half. 

MISS  M.  E.  PHELPS. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  67 


GRAHAM    CRACKERS. 

^  cup  of  butter,  i  cup  of  sugar,  white  of  one  Qgg 
•well  beaten.  Add  i  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  ^  teaspoon 
soda,  J/2  cup  cold  water,  graham  flour  enough  to 
knead.  Roll  thin,  cut  in  squares,  prick  with  a  fork  and 
bake  in  hot  oven, 

MARIA  L.  PORTER. 


GRAHAM   BREAD. 

I  pint  milk  and  water,  V2  gill  molasses,  l  table- 
spoon brewers'  yeast,  little  salt,  flour  to  stir  stiff".  Let 
rise,  mould  and  put  in  pan.   One  loaf. 

MRS,  ED.  GRAVES, 


GRAHAM  BREAD. 

2  y2  cups  sour  milk,  i  cup  molasses,  2  teaspoons 
soda,  1  teaspoon  salt,  3  cups  graham,  i  cup  wheat 
flour.  Stir  in  the  order  named,  set  to  rise  for  two  hours 
in  the  loaf  pans  and  bake  three  fourths  of  an  hour  in 
a  medium  oven, 

MRS.  R.  M,  W^OODS. 

OAT  MEAL  BREAD. 

2  cups  oat  meal,  pour  over  4  cups  boiling  water  at 
noon,  at  night  ."-tir  into  this  3^  cup  of  molasses,  J/^ 
yeast  cake,  salt  and  flour  to  make  it  very  stiff",  abotit 
2  quarts,  in  the  morning  place  in  bread  pans  and  let 
rise  until  light, 

MRS.  R.  BILLINGS. 

GRAHAM  ROLLS. 

I  pint  sour  milk,  i  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  tablespoon 
molasses,  small  half  teaspoon  salt,  graham  sufficient 
for  thin  batter.      Bake  in  hot  gempans. 

MRS.  C.  D.  BARDWELL 


68  HATFIELD   COOK  BOOK. 


BAKED  BROWN  BREAD. 

3  cups  graham  flour,  i  cup  white  flour,  i  cup 
New  Orleans  molasses,  i  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in 
hot  water,  2  cups  sour  milk,  bake  one  hour  and  a 
half  in  oven  not  too  hot. 

ULA  GRAVES. 


STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD. 

2  cups  of  milk,  2  cups  indian  meal,  i^  cups  of 
flour,  I  cup  of  molasses,  i  teaspoon  of  soda,  steam 
three  hours. 

MRS.  I.  B.  LOWELL. 


BROWN  BREAD. 

2  cups  of  corn  meal,  2  cups  of  white  flour,  1  cup 
of  graham  flour,  ^  cup  molasses,  3  cups  sour  milk  or 
butter  milk,  i  heaping  teaspoon  of  soda,  scant  teaspoon 
of  salt  mix  and  put  in  covered  pail,  set  in  kettle  of 
boiling  water,  steam  for  two  and  a  half  hours,  bake 
one  half  hour. 

MRS.  N.  S.  HEAFY. 


BROWN  BREAD. 

2%  cups  of  sour  milk,  yi  cup  molasses  i  teaspoon 
of  salt,  I  teaspoon  of  soda,  2H  cups  Indian  meal,  r 
cup  graham  flour,  steam  three  hours. 

MARGARET  McGRATH. 


STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD. 

I  coffee  cup  molasses,  i  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 
in  hot  water  and  beaten  into  molasses,  i  ^gg,  i  quart 
sweet  milk,  3  cups  sifted  corn  meal,  2  cups  graham 
flour,  y2  cup  white  flour,  little  salt,  steam  three  and  a 
half  hours. 

MRS.  J.  E.  PORTER. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  G9 

BROWN  BREAD. 

I  cup  meal,  2  cups  graham,  2  cups  milk,  -/y  cup 
molasses,  i  teaspoon  soda,  little  salt,  steam  three 
hours. 

MRvS.  M.  H.  BURKE. 


INDIAN  xMEAL  ROLLS. 

2  egg-s,  Vi  cup  sugar,  i  large  cooking  spoon  of 
shortening,  Y^  cup  bolted  indian  meal,  1  cup  sweet 
milk,  2  cups  pastry  flour,  2  teaspoons  Ro3^al  Baking 
Powder,  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  eggs,  sugar  and  shortening 
well  together,  then  add  remaining  ingredients,  beat 
again  and  bake  in  gem  pans. 

RAISED  BISCUIT. 

I  quart  new  milk,  3^  cup  lard  set  on  stove  and 
when  melted  add  Vz  cup  sugar,  tablespoon  of  salt.  Set 
aside  to  cool,  when  luke  warm  add  i  cake  of  compress- 
ed yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  water  with  small  pinch  of 
baking  soda,  stir  as  stiff  as  possible,  with  well  sifted 
bread  flour,  then  knead  well  with  hands,  set  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise.  In  the  morning  knead  down  and  let  it 
rise  again.  When  light  mould  into  biscuit,  let  it  rise 
again  and  bake  in  rather  hot  oven. 

GEMS. 

1  cup  of  milk,  I  ^gg^  i^  cups  flour,  ^2  cup  corn 
meal,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  salt. 

MRS.  I.  B.  LOWELL. 

RAISED  BISCUIT. 

2  quarts  flour,  i  pint  milk,  i  yeast  cake,  M  cup 
lard,  I  tablespoon  sugar. 

MRS.  GEORGE  A.  BILLINGS. 


70  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

RYE  MUFFINS. 

I  cup  rye  flour,  y^  cup  sugar,  ^4  teaspoon  salt,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  cup  white  flour,  i  ^gg,  i 
cup  milk. 

MRS.  CUTLER. 


JOHNNY  CAKE. 

i^  cups  butter-milk,  ^  cup  sugar,  i  cup  flour,  i 
cup  Indian  meal,  i  Qgg,,  i  large  teaspoon  soda,  little 
salt,  nutmeg. 

MRS.  J.  T.  FITCH. 


JOHNNY  CAKE. 

2  cups  butter-milk,  i  cup  molasses,  i  teaspoon 
soda,  5^  teaspoon  salt,  2  cups  Indian  meal,  2  cups 
wheat  flour. 

MRS.  D.  \V.  WELLS. 


RAISED  GRIDDLE  CAKE. 

I  quart  milk  scalded,  14  yeast  cake,  i  tablespoon 
sugar,  I  teaspoon  salt,  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter. 
In  the  morning  add  ^i  teaspoon  soda. 

MRS.  A.  L.   BARDWELL. 


WHEAT  ROLLS. 

2  cups  flour,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  butter  size  of 
^gg^  Yi  teaspoon  soda,  i  ^/2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 
The  above  worked  together  with  the  hands.  Then 
add  T  ^gg^  and  milk  enough  for  thick  batter.  Bake 
quickly  in  hot  pans. 

MRS.  C.  D.  BARDWELL. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  71 


NEWPORT  ROLLS. 

2  eggs,  I  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  butter  size  of  an  &gg,  2  cups 
flour. 

MRS.  FRED  PEASE. 

GERMAN   SPONGE. 

Scald  i^  cups  sweet  milk,  when  cool  add  ^2  cup 
sugar,  ^  yeast  cake,  i  beaten  ^gg,  flour  for  batter. 
When  risen,  work  in  with  hand  ^  cup  butter  and 
flour  to  make  soft  dough,  which  can  be  patted  in 
baking  pan.  This  will  make  two  loaves  in  jelly  tins. 
When  risen,  bake  quickly,  and  while  hot  spread 
butter  on  the  top,  and  sprinkle  over  the  whole  a  little 
cinnamon  and  sugar. 

MRS.  C.  M.  BARTON. 

FRENCH  ROLLS. 

Stir  I  pint  of  scalded  milk  into  3  pints  of  flour, 
add  yi  cup  of  lard  and  ]2  cup  of  sugar.  When  cold 
add  ^  cup  of  yeast. 

MRS.  J.  D.  PORTER. 

WHEAT  MUFFINS. 

%  cup  butter,  ^  cup  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  pinch  of 
salt,  1 5^  cups  flour  or  about  as  thick  as  cake,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder. 

MRS.  J.   D.   BROWN. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

At  night  take  2  quarts  of  flour,  rub  in  3  table- 
spoons of  lard.  Make  a  hole  in  middle  and  put  in  i 
pint  of  cold  milk,  ^2  cup  yeast,  3  tablespoons  sugar, 
I  ^gg  and  I  teaspoon  of  salt.  Let  stand  until  morn- 
ing without  mixing.  Then  mix  and  when  risen  cut 
into  rolls.      When  ver}^  light  bake  quickl}^ 

MRS.   C.   M.   BARTON. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


BREAKFAST  MUFFINS. 

%  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  butter,  i  cup  milk,  i 
teaspoon  soda,  little  salt,  2^^  cups  flour,  at  last  stir 
in  I  ^gg. 

MRS.  J.  CARL. 

BUNS. 

3  cups  milk,  I  cup  sugar,  4  tablespoons  yeast, 
flour  enough  for  batter.  Rise  over  night.  Add  i 
cup  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  nutmeg,  raisins  and  flour. 
Raise  again.  When  baked  rub  over  with  molasses  and 
cream. 

MARY  E.  BRIGGS. 

MUFFINS. 

I  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  i  cup  milk,  2)4  cups  flour, 
I  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  ^,^  teaspoon  soda,  butter  size 
of  an  Qgg. 

MARY  E.  BRIGGS. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

I  pint  of  milk,  ^/^  cup  of  butter,  V2  cup  of  sugar, 
I  yeast  cake,  i  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  quarts  of  flour. 
Scald  the  milk,  add  butter  to  milk,while  warm,  when 
cool  add  sugar,  yeast,  salt  and  flour.  Let  rise  until 
morning,  then  mould  a  few  moments,  again  at  noon 
the  same,  roll  out,  cut  with  a  round  cookie  cutter, 
spreak  ^^  with  melted  butter,  and  turn  the  other  over 
it      Let  rise  until  time  to  bake  for  tea.     Quick  oven. 

MRS.  F.  H.  BARDWELL. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT. 

I  quart  of  flour,  i  pint  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  little  salt.  Drop  with  a  spoon  into  mufiin 
rings. 

MRS.  D.  W.  WELLS. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  73 

ROLLS. 

1  quart  sifted  flour,  i  tablespoon  butter  rubbed  in 
flour,  I  tablespoon  sugar,  i  teaspoon  salt,  ^  yeast 
cake,  nearly  a  pint  of  milk  scalded  and  cooled.  Mix 
as  soft  as  you  can  work.  Set  to  rise  at  nine  o'clock 
in  the  morning,  and  at  noon  stir  down,  (not  mould.) 
At  four  or  five  o'clock  roll  out  ^  of  an  inch  thick 
and  put  melted  butter  on  each  and  lap  together.  Rise 
till  light  and  bake  quickly. 

MRS.  W.  H.  BELDEN. 

TOP  OVERS. 

2  cups  flour,  2  cups  milk,  2  eggs,  salt,  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter.  This  makes  two  dozen.  Beat 
eggs  thoroughly,  add  salt,  butter,  milk  and  flour. 
Bake  in  hot  gem  pan  in  hot  stove. 

MRS.  J.  E.  PORTER. 

WHEAT  GEMS. 

2  cups  water,  J/^  cup  milk,  3  cups  entire  wheat 
flour,  little  salt.  Heat  gem  pans  very  hot  on  top  of  stove, 
fill  even  full  with  batter,  and  place  on  grate  of  hot 
oven,  let  it  remain  ten  minutes  then  bake  quickly 
thirty  minutes  on  bottom  of  the  oven. 

MRS.  DAVID  BILLINGS. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

2  quarts  of  flour,  i  large  spoonful  of  lard  rubbed 
with  the  flour,  put  in  deep  pan  and  make  a  hole  in 
the  middle.  Take  a  pint  of  cold  boiled  milk,  ^^  a  cup 
of  yeast,  Yz  a  cup  of  sugar  mixed,  put  into  the  hole 
and  not  stir,  let  it  stand  over  night,  stir  all  together 
with  a  spoon  and  let  it  remain  until  after  noon,  then 
knead  into  biscuits,  let  them  stand  until  quite  light 
or  take  these  ingredients  and  use  them  iu  the  ordinary 
way. 

MISS  A.  LYMAN. 


74  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


POP  OVERS  OR   I]REAKFA>>T  CAKES. 

I  ^gg.,  I  cup  of  flour,  I  cnp  of  milk,  little  salt, 
mukes  one  dozen,  bake  in  hot  gem  pans,  in  quick  oven. 
Bake  twenty  minutes. 

MRS.   H.  HUBBARD. 


BREAKFAST  POCKET  BOOKS. 

I  quart  of  warm  w  ater  or  milk,  2  eggs,  3  teaspoons 
sugar,  I  cup  of  3^east,  4  tablespoons  melted  butter. 
Add  flour  to  make  a  sponge  and  set  to  rise,  when 
risen  work  over  and  set  to  rise  again.  When  light 
dissolve  and  add  a  piece  of  soda  size  of  a  bean,  roll 
out,  spread  the  surface  with  butter,  cut  in  square  and 
double  over  to  form  a  pocket  book  shape,  and  put 
them  in  a  pan.      Let  stand  until  light,  and  bake. 

MRS.  SAMUEL  BILUINGS. 

PAN  CAKES. 

1  pint  new  milk,  2  eggs,  yi  teaspoon  soda,  little 
salt  and  flour  to  stiffen,  mix  well  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

POP  OVERS. 

2  cups  flour,  2  large  cups  milk,  2  eggs,  small  tea- 
poon  salt,  makes  one  dozen.  Add  a  little  milk  to  flour 
and  the  rest  gradually,  and  eggs  thoroughly  beaten, 
the  last  thing.     Bake  in  hot  oven. 

MRS.  B.  M.  WOODS. 
MRS.  FRED  PEASE. 
MISS  LIZZIE  PORTER. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

I  quart  flour,  i  tablespoon  butter,  3  tablespoons 
sugar,  2  eggs,  2  teacups  milk,  2  teaspoons  cream 
tartar,  i  teaspoon  soda,  small  teaspoon  salt. 

MRS.  N.  D.  BILLINGS. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK 


GREEN  CORN  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Grate  i  dozen  ears  of  corn,  add  to  this  i  cup  of 
sifted  pastry  flour,  i  cup  niilk,  ^2  teaspoon  salt,  i 
teaspoon  sugar.  Pinch  of  black  pepper  and  the  beaten 
yolks  of  2  eggs.  Beat  well,  stir  in  the  beaten  whites, 
and  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  If  canned  corn  is 
used,  I  egg  will  do  for  the  above  receipt. 

MRvS.  A.   L.  BARDWKLL. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

I  dozen  ears  of  corn  grated,  4  eggs,  ^4  cup  of  flour, 
little  salt.      Fry  in  hot  fat. 

MRS.   M.   N.   BURKE. 

GOOD  CORN  BREAD. 

Two  cups  Indian  corn,  and  a  cup  wheat, 

One  cup  sour  milk,  one  cup  sweet. 

One  good  o^gg  that  well  you  beat; 

A  half  cup  molasses  too, 

One  half  cup  sugar  add  there  to 

With  one  spoon  of  butter  (new,) 

Salt  and  soda  each  one  spoon 

Mix  up  quickly  and  bake  it  soon, 

Then  yon  will  have  corn  bread  complete, 

Best  of  all  corn  bread  \ou  meet 

It  will  make  your  boys  ej^es  shine 

If  he  is  like  that  bo}^  of  mine. 

If  3'ou  have  a  dozen  bo3'S 

To  increase  your  house  hold  joys 

Double  then  this  rule  I  should 

And  you  will  have  two  corn  cakes  good. 

When  you  have  nothing  nice  for  tea 

This  the  very  thing  will  be. 

All  the  men  that  I  have  seen 

Say  that  its  of  all  the  cakes  the  queen; 

Good  enough  for  any  king 

That  a  husband  home  may  bring. 


76  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


PUDDIINGS  AIND  SAUCES, 


'The  proof  of  the  pudding  lies  in  the  eating" 


TIREBOT  CREAM  PUDDING. 

PINK    POUTION. 

I  pint  cream  whipped,  3  eggs,  whites  beaten,  speck 
of  gelatine  to  hold  it,  sweeten  to  taste  and  flavor  with 


strawberry. 


WHITE    PORTION 


I  pint  cream  whipped,  3  eggs  whites  beaten,  speck 
of  gelatine,  sweeten  and  flavor  with  lemon. 

YELLOW    PORTION. 

I  pint  rich  milk.  6  eggs  yolks,  gelatine  enough  to 
stiffen,  sweeten  and  flavor  with  vanilla,  this  can  be 
served  wdth  a  border  of  jelly  cut  in  fancy  shapes 

SARAH  McHUGH. 

BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLING. 

I  quart  of  flour,  i  heaping  tablespoon  of  lard,  i 
teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  i  large  coffee 
cup  of  milk.  Roll  and  bake  one-half  hour.  Bake 
apples  in  dish  fifteen  minutes  before  laying  on  crust. 
Sauce  for  above,  i  cup  of  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of 
butter,  I  teaspoon  of  flour  beaten  together,  V2  cup  of 
boiling  water.     Flavor  and  boil  until  clear. 

MRS.  N.  D.  BILLING. 


78  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


BAKED  SUET  PUDDING. 

I  cup  of  SLiet  chopped  fine,  2^4  cups  of  flour,  i  cup 
raisins,  i  cup  currants,  i  small  cup  molasses,  ^/^  tea- 
spoon of  nutmeg",  I  teaspoon  cinnamon,  2  teaspoons 
cream  tartar,  i  teaspoon  soda.  Bake  one  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven. 


I  cup  of  sugar,  ^2  cup  of  butter,  i  Qgg  all  well 
beaten,  i  tablespoon  water,  then  heat  to  a  scald;  when 
cool  flavor  to  taste» 

MRS.  J.  H.  HOWARD. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

^  box  gelatine,  i  pint  boiling  water,  3  lemons 
(juice  only)  2  cups  of  sugar,  4  eggs  (whites).  Soak 
gelatine  in  a  cup  of  cold  water  one-half  hour  then  add 
the  boiling  water,  the  juice  of  the  lemons,  the  sugar 
strain  and  set  awa}^  to  cool.  When  it  begins  to  cool 
beat  with  an  Q.gg  beater  until  quite  stiff,  then  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Put  in  a  uiould  to  cool. 
When  cool  turn  into  dish.  Serve  with  boiled  custard, 
made  with  yolks  of  the  eggs. 

MRS.  E.  B.  DICKINvSON. 

CREAM  TAPIOCA. 

3  tablespoons  tapioca  soaked  over  night,  i  quart 
of  milk,  4  eggs,  yolks,  i  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  of 
prepared  cocoanut.  Boil  milk  and  tapioca  in  double 
boiler  half  an  hour.  Add  yolks,  sugar  and  cocoanut 
beaten  together  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer.  Beat 
white  to  a  stiff  froth  with  3  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar,  spread  over  the  top  sprinkle  with  cocoanut  and 
brown  in  the  oven. 

MRS.  E.  B.  DICKINSON. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  V^ 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDINGS. 

Scald  I  quart  milk,  i  cup  Indian  meal,  i  teacup 
sugar,  I  teaspoon  cinnamon,  j4  teaspoon  salt.  Wet 
the  meal  in  cold  milk,  stir  into  the  boiling  milk,  add 
the  sugar,  cinnamon  and  salt,  pour  "the  batter  into  a 
2  quart  dish  and  fill  with  cold  milk,  mix,  and  bake 
four  or  five  hours, 

MRS.  FRED  CARL. 
DELICATE  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

I  quart  milk,  2  large  tablespoons  Indian  meal,  i  cup 
sugar,  3  eggs,  scald  the  milk,  add  the  meal,  cook  ten 
minutes  and  remove  from  the  fire,  add  the  eggs  and 
sugar  and  stir  all  together  and  bake  slowly  three- 
quarter  of  an  hour.     To  be  eaten  with  cream. 

MISS  NELLIE  WHALEN. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

I  pint  stale  bread  crumbs,  i  quart  milk,  2  squares 
chocolate,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  i  tablespoon  hot  water, 
4  eggs.  Soak  crumbs  in  milk  one  hour,  then  mash 
fine,  cut  chocolate  fine  into  a  sauce  pan,  add  3  table- 
spoons of  sugar  and  i  tablespoon  hot  water,  when 
melted  add  the  milk  and  bread.  Beat  the  yolks  of  4 
eggs  and  the  white  of  one,  add  2  more  tablespoons  of 
sugar  and  turn  into  the  mixture.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
dish  and  bake  forty  minutes.  Cover  with  a  meringue 
made  from  the  remaining  whites  of  the  eggs.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  C.   L.  GRAVES. 
GRAHAM  PUDDING. 

I  cup  molasses,  i  cup  milk,  icup  raisins,  2  cups 
graham  flour,  j4  teaspoon  soda,  i  egg.  (Steam  two 
hours.) 

SAUCE. 

Mix  with  I  cup  cream  whipped  and  sweetened,  the 
beaten  white  of  i  egg, 

MRS.  C.  A.  JONES. 


?0  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

I  pint  cream,  i  cup  milk,  J/2  cup  sugar,  J 2  box 
gelatine  soaked  in  the  milk,  i  square  of  chocolate. 
Whip  the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth,  melt  chocolate  and 
sugar  together  with  a  teaspoon  of  hot  water  stir  gela- 
tine into  this  mixture  and  let  it  cool,  then  add  whipped 
cream  beat  all  together  and  put  in  mould.  Serve  with 
cream  and  sugar. 

MARGARET  McGRATH. 

CORN  STARCH  PUDDING. 

I  quart  milk,  take  out  enough  to  wet  3  tablespoons 
corn  starch,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  14  cup  sugar.  Boil 
milk  then  add  beaten  eggs,  sugar,  corn  starch  and  a 
little  salt,  fla\or  with  vanilla.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

SAUCE. 

^  cup  butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  i  cup  sugar. 
Season  with  nutmeg. 

MRS.  R.  M.  WOODvS. 

JUDGE  PETER'S  PUDDING. 

^  box  of  gelatine,  2  oranges,  (juice  only,)  9  dates, 
6  figs,  two  bananas,  2  Bnglish  walnuts.  Dissoh  e  the 
gelatine  in  %  pint  cold  water,  let  it  stand  one  hour 
then  add  y2  pint  boiling  water,  2  lemons,  (juice)  2 
cups  of  sugar.  Strain  and  let  cool.  The  jelly  must  be 
almost  cold  before  adding  the  fruit;  which  has  been 
cut  fine.  Pour  into  a  fancy  dish  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

MRS.  C.  A.  JONES. 
BREAD   PUDDING. 

I  pint  bread  crumbs,  i  quart  milk,  i  cup  of  sugar, 
3  eggs  (yolks,)  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  Q:gg  raisins, 
stirred  in  dish  together  and  baked.  Put  layer  of  jelly 
over  the  top  after  baking,  beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs 
and  ^  cup  of  sugar  into  a  meringue.  Brown  in  the 
oven. 

MISS  EMMA  A.  WAITE. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  81 

RICE  PUDDING. 

3  tablespoons  (even)  rice,  i  quart  of  milk,  ^2  cup 
^    ,  of  sugar,  raisins.      Bake  until  the  rice  is    soft,  about 
three  hours  in  a  slow  oven.     Serve  cold. 

MISS  E.  SHATTUCK. 


PRUNE  PUDDING. 

White  of  3  eggs,  i  teacup  stewed  prunes,  cut  in  small 
pieces,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  2  teaspoons  vanilla.  Take 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  very  stiff  with  the  sugar 
then  whip  in  the  prunes,  then  add  vanilla,  put  in  a 
buttered  dish  and  bake  until  brown.  Serve  with  whipp- 
ed cream  and  sugar. 

MISS  EUNICE  MORTON. 


PRUNE  PUDDING. 

3  well  beaten  eggs,  -/t,  cup  sugar,  i  cup  stewed 
prunes,  i  pint  milk,  i  heaping  tablespoon  corn  starch. 
Heat  tbe  milk  to  boiling  point,  stir  in  the  corn  starch 
rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk,  let  this  come  to  a 
boil,  add  the  prunes  and  pour  into  a  pudding  dish  and 
bake  fifteen  minutes.     Serve  with  cream. 

MRS.  D.  ^V.  WELLS. 


HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING. 

3  ^ggs,  I  cup  milk,  i  tablespoon  melted  butter,  i 
pint  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  pint  huckle- 
berries, a  little  salt.  Boil  one  an  one-half  hours. 
Sauce,  butter  and  sugar. 

E.  A.  WAITE. 


8'I  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK'. 


QUAKING  PUDDING. 

I  qnait  milk,  6  eg^s,  2  tablespoons  butter  (warm 
for  buttering  the  mold,)  1  quart  of  stale  bread  cut  in 
thin  slices  (sli\ered,)  j4  cup  dr}-  currants,  i  cup  seeded 
raisins,  5^  leaspoon  salt,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  % 
nutmeg.  Measure  the  bread  after  it  is  cut,  packed 
solid  into  a  quart  measure,  butter  a  3  quart  bowl 
thoroughly,  sprinkle  the  bottom  and  sides  with  cur- 
rants, lay  bread  in  laj^ers,  raisins  betw^een  layers,  and. 
bread  on  top.  Beat  eggs,  sugar,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  add. 
milk  and  pour  over  bread.  Put  in  cool  place  for  three- 
hours,  steam  in  a  steamer  one  and  one  quarter  hours. 
Serve  with  a  creamy  sauce  made  as  follows: — 

SAUCE ^ 

%  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  J^  cup 
cream  or  milk,  i  teaspoon  vanilla  or  lemon.  Beat 
butter  to  a  cream  adding  sugar  gradually,  beating  all 
the  time,  when  light  and  creamy,  add  the  flavoring 
and  a  little  at  a  time  the  cream.  When  all  is  beaten 
smooth  place  the  bowl  in  a  basin  of  hot  water  until 
smooth  and  creamy, 

MISS  BERTHA  THAYER. 


STEAM  PUDDING. 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  j4  cup  sugar,  }4  cup  molasses^ 
3  cups  flour,  I  teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  cloves,  soda. 
Add  either  raisins  or  berries.  Grease  a  pail  or  mold 
into  which  put  the  above.  Cover  tightly.  Steam 
two  hours^ 

SAUCE. 

4  tablespoons  boiling  milk,  t  egg,  i  cup  sugar. 
Beat  Qgg  and  sugar  together,  add  to  the  milk, 

MRS.  ARTHUR  JENNY. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  ^'A 


COTTAGE   PUDDING. 

I  egg,  I  scant  cup  of  milk,  i  cup  of  sugar,  2  cups 
of  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  tablespoon 
melted  butter.      Serve  with 

SAUCK. 

\  %  cup  of  butter,  ^  cup  of  sugar  beaten  to  a 
cream,  i  teaspoon  flour,  i  cup  hot  water,  cook  over 
tea-kettle,  juice  and  rind  of  i  lemon. 

MRS.  ARTHUR  CURTKS. 

KINGSLEV  PUDDING. 

I  quart  milk,  ^^  box  gelatine,  4  eggs,  yolks. 
Cook  these  together,  then  add  beaten  whites,  sweeten 
and  flavor  to  taste  Just  before  it  begins  to  stiffen  add 
I  dozen  macaroons  and  i  dozen  cocoanut  balls.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

SARAH  McHUGH. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING. 

ij4  cups  of  graham  flour,  i  cup  of  sweet  milk,  i 
cup  chopped  raisins,  i  cup  molasses,  ^  teaspoon  soda, 
I  teaspoon  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Steam  two  hours. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  F.  H.  BARDWELL. 

SWEET  CORN  PUDDING. 

I  pint  of  sweet  corn  pulp,  2  eggs,  i  j4  pints  of 
milk,  I  tablespoon  of  butter,  }4  cup  of  sugar,  raisins 
if  you  like. 

M.  A.  MORTON. 

BERRY  PUDDING. 

I  egg,  Yz  cup  sugar,  i  cup  buttermilk,  i  teaspoon 
soda,  little  salt,  2  cups  berries,  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
cake,  then  pour  into  a  2  quart  pan,  cover,  and  boil 
two  hours.     Serve  with  sweetened  sauce. 

MRS.  R.   HUBBARD. 


84  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


CUSTARD  SOUFFLE  i'UDDlNG. 

I  pint  milk,  ^^2  cup  flour,  J-^  cup  sugar.  Stir  all 
together,  cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  tliickens,  then 
add  a  small  piece  of  butter.  When  cool  add  4  eggs, 
whites  and  j^olks  beaten  separately.  Then  bake  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  pan  of  water.  Serve  im- 
mediately from  the  oven  with  following. 

EGG    SAUCE. 

1  cup  of  sugar,  ^  cup  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream, 
2  eggs  beaten  together  and  added  to  the  sugar  and 
butler.      Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

MRS.  F.  H.  BARDWELL. 

APPLE  PUDDING. 

Peel,  core  and  slice  apples  sufficient  to  fill  a  baking 
dish.  Butter  the  dish  thickly,  and  put  in  the  apples 
in  layers  alternately  wiih  stale  cake  crumbs  and  a 
little  melted  butter.  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter 
to  a  pint  of  apples.  Let  the  last  layer  be  a  thick  one 
of  cake  crumbs,  then  put  in  a  moderately  hot  oven, 
until  apples  are  tender,  then  beat  together  2  eggs, 
2  tablespoons  sugar,  more  if  r.pples  are  very  tart. 
Add  I  cup  of  cream,  pour  it  over  the  puddiug. 
Return  to  the  oven  until  the  pudding  is  a  rich  golden 
color.     Serve  with  cream. 

MRS.   B.   M.  WARNER. 

CARAMEL  PUDDING. 

2  cups  sugar,  melted,  care  must  be  taken  not 
to  burn,  ^  cup  hot  water  added  to  sugar,  i  quart 
milk  boiled,  8  eggs,  ^^olks  only,  i  tablespoon  corn- 
starch, salt  to  taste.  When  cooked  add  the  caramel. 
Make  a  me  1  in gue  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  brown 
in  the  oven.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  flavored 
lightly  with  vanilla. 

SARAH  McHUGH. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  80 


ORANGE  PUDDING. 

I  package  of  minute  gelatine,  i  pint  boiling  water, 
I  cup  sugar,  3  oranges.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the 
pint  of  boiling  water,  add  the  sugar  and  stir  well,  add 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  the  oranges,  and  stir  all 
together,  when  cold  pour  over  i  cup  whipped  cream, 
flavor  with  extract  of  orange. 

MISS  NELLIE  ORMONDE. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

6  oranges,  i  cup  sugar,  i  pint  milk,  3  eggs.  Scald 
the  milk,  add  the  3^olks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten, 
stir  constantly.  As  soon  as  it  thickens  add  to  the 
oranges  which  have  been  cut  into  small  piece-^.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  i  table- 
spoon sugar  to  each  Qgg-  Spread  on  top  and  set  in 
the  oven  to  brown. 

MRS.  C.  L.  WARNER. 

PINEAPPLE  PUDDING. 

Yo  cup  of  minute  tapioca,  i  cup  sugar,  i  pint 
water,  2  lemons,  2  eggs,  (whites,)  i  pint  pineapple. 
Boil  the  tapioca  in  the  water  until  clear.  Add  the 
juice  of  the  lemons,  add  sugar  and  stir  in  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs,  add  the  pineapple  cut  in  inch 
pieces.     Serve  cold  with  sweet  cream. 

MRS.  CHARLES  GRAVES. 


INDIAN  PUDDING. 

2  quarts  of  milk,  i  cup  Indian  meal,  i  cup 
molasses,  2  eggs,  ^  teaspoon  salt.  Scald  meal  in  i 
quart  of  milk.  Add  the  rest  of  the  milk,  molasses, 
eggs  and  salt.  Put  in  pudding  dish.  Cover  the  top 
with  small  bits  of  butter  and  bake  three  hours. 

MRS.  I.  B.  LOWELL. 


8G  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

1%  pounds  seeded  raisins,  i  ounce  candied  lemon 
peel  chopped,  i  ounce  candied  orange  peel  chopped, 
yi  ounce  bitter  almonds,  i  pound  suet  chopped  fine. 
Mix  the  suet  with  i  quart  of  sifted  bread  crumbs. 
Add  the  raisins,  peels  and  almonds,  and  the  grated 
rind  of  a  fresh  lemon,  i  teaspoon  nutmeg,  i  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  i  pound  light  brown  sugar,  8  eggs  beaten 
very  light.  Add  the  sugar,  and  stir  into  fruit  mix- 
ture. Then  add  ^  cup  of  strong  coffee.  Put  in  a 
well  greased  mold  and  steam  three  hours.  Serve 
with  a  hard  sauce. 

M.  A.  MORTON. 


SUET  PUDDING. 

1  cup  chopped  raisins,  i  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  i 
cup  molasses,  i  cup  milk,  i  teaspoon  soda,  i  teaspoon 
spices,  all  kinds,  3  cups  of  flour.  Stir  in  the  order 
named  and  steam  three  hours.     Serve  with 

SAUCE. 

2  eggs,  whites  only,  4  tablespoons  sugar.  Flavor 
with  vanilla. 

MRS.  CHLOE  MORTON. 


IMPERIAL  RICE  PUDDING. 

I  teacup  rice  boiled  soft,  3  tablespoons  butter, 
nutmeg,  sugar,  salt  to  taste,  i  quart  creamy  milk, 
%  pound  raisins,  %  pound  currants,  %  pound  citron 
and  candied  cherries.  Serve  with  English  cream 
sauce  made  as  follows: — i  pint  rich  milk,  6  eggs, 
j^olks  beaten,  and  add  to  the  boiling  milk.  Sweeten 
to  taste.      Flavor  with  vanilla.      Beat  until  cold. 

SARAH  McHUGH. 


HATFIELD   COOK  BOOK. 


CREME — DU'I.OMATE. 

I  quart  rich  cream,  well  whipped,  6  eggs,  whites 
only,  beaten  stiff,  ^4  box  gelatine,  soaked  and  strained. 
Sweeten  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  2  dozen  lady  fingers, 
^  dozen  macaroons  arranged  in  a  mold.  Just  before 
pouring  in  the  crenn,  add  yi  pound  candied  fruits 
which  have  been  soaked. 

SARAH  McHUGH. 

CRACKER  PUDDING. 

I  quart  of  milk,  4  crackers  rolled  fine,  2  eggs, 
yolks  only,  salt.  Bake  thirty  minutes.  When  nearh' 
cool  make  a  meringue  of  whites  of  eggs  and  ^  cup 
of  sugar.      Return  to  oven  and  brown  quickly. 

MRS.  I.  B.  LOWELL. 
PUDDING  SAUCES. 

WHIPPED    CREAM. 

I  coffee  cup  cream,  2  eggs,  (whites,)  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  ^4  teaspoon  flavoring  extract.  Beat  all 
together  with  an  &gg  beater  until  stiff.  A  good  sauce 
for  many  kinds  of  cake  or  pudding. 

MRS.  B.  M.  WARNER. 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 

I  ^gg  (3'olk,)  I  cup  sugar.  2  tablespoons  flour,  I 
cup  boiling  water,  butter  size  of  an  &gg.  Beat  the 
sugar  and  yolk  of  the  egg  with  a  little  water  together, 
then  add  the  flour,  then  the  cup  of  boiling  water  also 
butter.  Let  this  boil  a  few  moments  and  pour  it  on 
the  well  beaten  white  of  an  ^gg  and  stir  very  lightl3^ 
Add   2  teaspoons  vanilla. 

MRS.  p.  J.  BOYLE. 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 

I  &gg  well  beaten  with  Vi  cup  of  sugar.  Pour  on 
this  2  tablespoons  of  boiling  milk.  Beat  until  it  is 
light.     Flavor. 

MRS.  E.  A.  HUBBARD. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


PUDDING  SAUCE. 

I  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  i  eg-g-,  i  lemon,  juice, 
3  tablespoons  boiling  water.  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar,  and  beat  in  the  Qgg  whipped  light,  then  the 
lemon.  Add  a  little  at  a  time  the  boiling  water.  Set 
in  the  top  of  the  tea-kettle  till  it  is  very  hot,  stirring 
constantly.  It  should  be  the  consistency  of  rich 
cream. 

MRS.  J.  S.  WELIvS. 

RICE  PUDDING, 

I  tea-cup  rice,  boiled  in  2  cups  water,  add  i  quart 
milk,  boil  until  soft.  Butter  %  size  of  egg,  6  eggs, 
salt.  Beat  yolks  and  whites  separate,  the  sugar  with 
the  yolks  stir  into  rice,  also  salt  and  butter  Return 
to  fire  2  or  3  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  burn. 
Pour  into  buttered  dish.  Beat  the  6  whites  and  6 
tablespoons  sugar  to  a  stiff  froth,  flavor  with  lemon, 
lay  it  over  the  pudding  in  folds  like  a  turban,  set  in 
the  oven  to  brown. 


HATFIELD   COOK  BOOK. 


89 


90  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


PIBS, 


No  soil  upon  earth  is  so  dear  to  our  eyes, 

As  the  soil  we  first  stirred  into  terrestrial  pies. 

(O.  W.  Holmes.) 


PIE  CRUST. 


4  teacups  flour,  i  heaping  cup  lard,  i  teaspoon 
salt,  mix  lightly  with  ice  water.  Add  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder  to  flour. 

MRS.  A.  F.  CURTIS. 
PUFF    PASTE.  — (VEHY  NICE.) 

I  quart  sifted  flour,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder,  l 
teaspoon  salt,  i  teacup  lard,  ver}^  cold,  rubbed  in  fine, 
just  enough  ice  water  and  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg 
to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  in  sheets,  make  three  parts 
to  a  cup  of  butter,  roll  out  three  times  and  set  on  ice. 
The  Qgg  may  be  omitted. 

SARAH  McHUGH 


NICE  MINCE  PIE. 

I  bowl  of  chopped  meat,  i  bowl  chopped  suet,  3 
bowls  chopped  apples,  i  bowl  molasses,  i  bowl  sugar 
I  bowl  cider  or  sweet  pickle  juice,  7  teaspoons  cinnamon, 
5  teaspoons  cloves,  2  mutmegs,  raisins.  An\'  fruit 
you  like,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

MRS.  S.  G.  IirBBARD. 


92  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


MINCE  MEAT  FOR  PIES. 

I  cup  chopped  meat,  ly^  cups  raisins,  lyi  cups 
currants,  I  ^  cups  brown  sugar,  i  cup  granulated 
sugar,  3  cups  chopped  apples,  i  cup  meat  liquor,  2 
teaspoons  salt,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  )4  teaspoon 
powdered  cloves,  i  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice,  i 
cup  boiled  cider  or  sweet  pickle  juice,  mix  in  the 
order  given.  Cook  in  a  porcelain  kettle  until  the  apples 
and  raisins  are  soft.  Meat  from  the  vein  or  lower  part 
of  the  round  that  has  a  little  fat  and  no  bone  is  the 
best  for  pie  meat.  Meat  should  be  boiled  until  tender 
before  chopped. 

MRS.  R.  M.  WOODS. 

STAWBERRY  CREAM  PIE. 

I  pint  milk,  4  eggs  (yolks),  i  teaspoon  cornstarch, 
sweeten,  i  large  cup  berries  or  one  can.  Put  on  a 
layer  of  jam  before  covering  with  a  meringue. 

SARAH  McHUGH. 

CREAM  PIE. 

I  pint  milk,  ^  cup  sugar,  2  eggs  (yolks),  i  table- 
spoon flour.  Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  then 
add  eggs  and  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  ^gg^  then 
the  flour.  Have  ready  a  nicel}^  baked  crust  in  a  deep 
pie  plate.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth 
add  2  tablespoons  sugar,  put  on  top,  place  in  the 
oven  unil  a  delicate  brown.  Very  nice  for  a  change 
witli  2  tablespoons  of  cocoa  in  the  cream, 

•     ULA  GRAVES. 

CREAM  PIE. 

3  eggs,  8  tablespoons  sugar,  i  tablespoon  flour, 
1%  cups  sweet  cream,  4  teacups  milk,  a  little  salt, 
and  nutmeg.  Beat  the  eggs  fast  for  five  minutes, 
then  add  sugar  and  flour  and  beat  five  minutes,  then 
add  the  other  ingredients. 

MRS.   FRED  CARL. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  93 

CREAM  PIE. 

V2  cup  cream,  i  cup  milk,  i  tablespoon  flour,  i  ^gg^ 

1  cup  sugar,  vanilla.  Mix  flour  and  milk,  cook  in  a 
double  boiler,  remove  from  stove,  add  the  other  ingre- 
dients.     Bake  with  two  crusts, 

MRS.  WM.  BILLINGS. 

SQIJASH  PIE. 

1  quart  scalded  milk,  (its  better  part  cream)  i  pint 
sifted  squash,  2  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour,  (stirred 
into  the  squash)  3  eggs,  flavor  with  nutmeg.  This 
makes  two  large  or  four  small  pies. 

MRS.  EDWARD  ELDRIDGE. 

CRANBERRY  PIE. 

3  large  cups  cranberries,  3  cups  sugar,  ^/^  cup 
raisins,  2  cups  boiling  water,  i  large  tablespoon  corn- 
starch. Chop  berries  and  raisins,  add  sugar  and 
water,  then  add  dissolved  cornstarch.  Boil  until  it 
thickens  a  little.     Enough  for  three  pies. 

CARRIE  W.  HOLT. 

LEMON  MERINGUE  PIE. 

2  lemons,  i^  cups  sugar,  i  tablespoon  cornstarch, 

2  cups  boiling  water,  3  eggs,  (yolks),  butter  size  of  a 
walnut  Stir  well  together  the  lemons,  sugar  and 
cornstarch,  add  the  water  Cook  and  add  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs,  also  butter  Pour  into  a  baked  crust 
spread  with  three  spoons  currant  jelly.  And  cover 
with  a  meringue  of  three  eggs. 

SARAH  McHUGH. 

RHUBARD    PIE. 

I  cup  chopped  rhubard,  i  cup  sugar,  i  Q:gg  well 
beaten,  r  tablespoon  flour.     Bake  with  two  crusts. 

MRS.  R.  BILLINGS. 


94  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

LEMON  FIE. 

I  lemon,  (grated  rind  and  juice)  2  eggs,  (yolks) 
I  cup  sugar.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler,  when  cool  add 
the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Put  in  a  crust 
already  baked,  and  put  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

MRS.  D.  F.  SHATTUCK. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE. 

I  cup  chopped  raisins,  i^  cups  sugar,  i^^  cups 
molasses,  2  cups  water,  ^  cup  vinegar,  8  crackers  roll- 
ed fine,  I  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^^  cup  butler,  a  little  salt 
and  nutmeg.     Makes  four  pies. 

MRS.  WM.  BILLINGS. 

SQUASH    PIE. 

i^  cups  sifted  squash,  i  pint  cream,  2  cups  sugar, 
4  eggs,  I  pint  milk,  cinnamon.  This  quantity  makes 
four  pies. 

MRS.  T.  GRAVES. 

CREAM  PIE. 

1 34  cups  milk,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
flour,  2  eggs.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

MRS.   ERNEST  GODIN. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

4  ^ggs,  (well  beaten)  2  tablespoons  flour,  2  small 
cups  sugar,  (beat  for  five  minutes)  i  quart  milk  beaten 
in  slowly.  Have  the  oven  hot  enough  to  brown  quickly 
then  close  the  dampers  and  bake  slowly.  Makes  two 
pies. 

MRS.  A.   H.  GRAVES. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

8  tablespoons  grated  chocolate,  i  quart  boiling 
water,  4  tablespoons  flour  or  cornstarch,  12  tablespoons 
sugar.  Boil  like  custard,  fill  pies,  bake,  put  meringue 
on  top.      Makes  two  pies. 

MRS.  A.  H.  GRAVES. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  95 


COCOANUT  PIE. 

3  eggs  V2  cup  shredded  cocoanut  (soaked  in  i 
pint  milk)  I  cup  sugar,  small  piece  butter,  bake  with 
one  crust.  Be  sure  and  watch  while  baking  If  de- 
sired 3' on  can  use  less  eggs  and  use  i  tablespoon  flour. 

MRS.  C.  D.  BARDWELL 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

Parboil  two  chickens,  make  a  paste  using  three 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder  to  one  quart  of  sifted  flour, 
wetting  the  paste  with  sweet  cream,  a  little  salt.  Re- 
move skin  and  bones,  placing  the  chicken  in  dish,  salt 
and  pepper,  small  pieces  of  butter.  Add  liquor  in 
which  the  chickens  were  parboiled,  after  removing  the 
grease,  cover  with  the  paste,  having  well  punctured. 

MRS.  HENRY  HUBBARD. 

APPLE  PUDDING  PIES. 

5  cups  stewed  and  strained  sour  apples,  i  small 
teacup  butter,  added  while  hot,  2  cups  sugar,  5  eggs 
bealen  light,  2^4  cups  cream  or  rich  milk.  Make 
three  pies  baked  with  one  crust.  Less  eggs,  cream 
and  butter  may  be  used  and  still  be  very  nice. 

MRS.  A.  F.  CURTIS. 

RICE  PIE. 

%  cup  boiled  rice,  2  eggs,  7^  pint  milk,  3^  cup 
cream,  7/3  cup  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  butter  size  of 
a  walnut,  14  cup  seeded  raisins,  nutmeg  to  taste. 
Bake  with  one  crust, 

MRS.  A.  S.  BROWN. 

LEMON  PIE. 

3  ^ggs  (yolks,)  I  teaspoon  flour,  i  cup  sugar,  1 
lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind,  i)^  cups  milk,  pinch  of 
salt.  Bake  with  one  crust,  when  nearly  cold  cover 
with  a  meringue,  made  of  the  whites  of  three  eggs, 
and  brown  in  the  oven. 

MRS.  M.  A.  MORTON. 


1 

96  HAtPlELD   COOK  BOOK. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  97 


98  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


PUAIIN  AIND  RAIVCV  DESSBRTS 


"The  Smile  of  the  Hostess  is  the  Cream  of  the  Feast." 


PINE  APPLE  CREAM. 

Stir  I  pound  grated  pine  apple  with  i  cup  sugar 
(ten  minutes),  Yz  box  gelatine  soaked  in  ^  cup  cold 
water  until  soft,  then  dissolve  in  ^^  cup  of  boiling 
water  and  strain  into  the  pine  apple.  When  cool  and 
lightl}^  stiffened  add  a  pint  of  whipped  cream,  put  in 
lightly.  The  whites  of  4  or  5  eggs  may  be  used 
instead  of  cream. 

MISS  CARRIE  WARNER. 

WHIPPED  APPLE  CREAM. 

I  ^<g^  (white)  I  cup  strained  apple,  ^  cup  sugar. 
Whip  until  it  will  not  drop  from  a  spoon,  pour  over 
it  the  following;  i  pint  milk  fin  double  boiler)  let 
come  to  a  boil,  stir  into  this  2  eggs  and  the  yolk  of  i 
beaten  with  l^  <^^^P  sugar  and  i  tablespoon  corn 
starch. 

MRS.  T.  GRAVES. 

COFFEE  BLANC  MANGE. 

I  pint  of  coffee,  i  pint  of  water,  i  cup  of  sugar, 
i^  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  little  water,  let  all  come 
to  a  boil,  strain  into  a  mould  and  cool.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream,  or  sugar  and  cream. 

MRS.  C.   K.   MORTON. 


100  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

4  large  spoonfuls  of  tapioca,  i  quart  of  milk, 
yolks  of  4  eggs,  i  cup  sugar.  Cover  tapioca  with  cold 
water  and  soak  over  night.  Set  milk  on  stove  to 
warm.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  together,  stir 
into  the  warm  milk  with  pinch  of  salt,  then  stir  in 
tapioca.  Beat  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  into  the 
custard.     Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

MRS.  G.  A.  BILLINGS. 

PRUNE  WHIP. 

Vo  pound  prunes,  4  eggs  (whites)  ^^  cup  sugar. 
Soak  the  prunes  over  night,  in  the  morning  stew  until 
tender  with  the  sugar.  Rub  through  a  sieve.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  sifted 
prunes,  beating  well  together.  Heap  upon  a  platter, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes, 
allowing  the  whip  to  brown  delicately.  Serve  with 
custard  sauce. 


Scald  I  pint  of  milk,  beat  the  3''olks  of  4  eggs 
slightly,  add  4  tablespoons  sugar  and  ^  saltspoon  of 
salt,  pour  on  the  hot  milk  and  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  until  it  thickens.  When  cold  flavor  with  % 
teaspoon  vanilla  extract, 

MISS  HELEN  SMITH. 


CHEESE  STRAWS. 

Take  i  tablespoon  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  3  table- 
spoons of  flour,  little  salt,  4  tablespoons  of  grated 
rich  cheese.  Add  to  these  the  yolk  of  i  ^gg,  i  table- 
spoon of  water,  then  mix  until  hard,  roll  out  to  about 
%  of  an  inch  thickness,  cut  into  strips  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  until  a  pale  brown. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  101 


CHEESE  STRAWS. 

Chop  together  i  cup  flour,  ^^  cup  butter,  i  salt 
spoon  salt.  Mix  to  a  stiff  dough  roll  out  very  thin, 
sprinkle  with  2  tablespoons  cheese,  roll  out  agam 
and  sprinkle.  Add  i  saltspoon  salt,  cut  in  narrow 
strips  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes. 

MISS  HELKN  SMITH. 

SHORT  CAKE. 

I  quart  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  salt, 
and  sift  several  times.  Rub  in  the  flour  i  tablespoon 
butter  and  i  of  lard.  Mix  with  milk.  Take  ^  the  mix 
ture  and  roll  as  large  as  the  pan  to  be  baked  in,  spread 
with  butter,  roll  out  the  other  portion,  put  on  top  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

MRS.  CHARLES  JONES. 
STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE. 

y2  cup  butter,  i  quart  flour,  2  eggs,  little  salt, 
3  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  milk  to  make 
thick  batter.  Rub  butter  well  into  flour,  add  salt 
and  baking  powder,  then  add  eggs  well  beaten.  Wet 
with  enough  milk  to  make  thick  batter.  Bake  quickly. 
Split  with  warm  knife.  Butter  top  pieces,  spread 
with  layer  of  strawberries.  Serve  with  crushed 
berries,  sweetened,  to  which  plenty  of  cream  has  been 
added.  Pour  over  the  whole  whipped  cream  if  wanted 
very  rich. 

MRS.  ALFRED  H.  GRAVES. 

RASPBERRY  TAPIOCA. 

4  tablespoons  tapioca  soaked  over  night  in  i  cup 
water.  Add  5^  cup  water  in  the  morning  and  heat 
in  double  boiler.  When  clear,  add  cup  of  strained  red 
raspberry  juice,  (bottled,)  i  cup  sugar  and  juice  of 
small  lemon.  Pour  in  small  "moulds  and  when  set, 
serve  with  thin  sweet  cream. 

MISS  LrCY  WEBBER. 


102  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


CHOCOLATE  BLANC  MANGE. 

I  quart  of  milk,  i  ounce  of  gelatine,  4  tablespoons 
grated  chocolate,  3  eggs,  i  cup  sugar.  Reserve  i 
cup  from  the  quart  and  soak  i  ounce  of  gelatine  in  it. 
Grate  chocolate  and  dissoUe  in  a  little  milk,  add 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Add  sugar,  flavor 
with  \anilla. 

MRS.  WM.  BILLINGvS. 


ORANGE  CUSTARD. 

Separate  the  whites  of  8  eggs  from  the  yolks, 
setting  latter  away  in  a  cool  place.  Add  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  2  large  oranges  to  the  whites,  and 
after  beating  well  add  ^/^  pint  of  water  and  set  away 
for  an  hour.  Then  beat  yolks  of  eggs  add  them  with 
one  cupful  of  sugar  to  the  mixture  of  whites,  orange 
and  water,  strain  into  a  pitcher  and  set  into  a  basin 
of  boiling  water.  Let  it  boil  rapidly  stiring  the  mix- 
ture meanwhile  until  it  becomes  as  thick  as  heavy 
cream.  Allow  the  custard  to  cool,  pour  into  glass  cups 
and  set  awa}^  to  get  cold. 

LUCY  WEBBER. 


BAKED  CUSTARD. 

I  quart  milk,  4  eggs,  3  large  tablespoons  sugar. 
Scald  the  milk.  Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly.  Add  the 
sugar.  Stir  into  the  milk  when  hot.  Strain  into 
cups  or  a  dish  and  bake  slowly.  Pour  into  cups 
when  cold  and  flavor. 


BOILED  CUSTARD. 

I  quart  rich  milk,  '4  eggs,  i  cup  sugar.  Scald 
the  milk,  then  add  eggs  and  sugar,  cook  well  but  do 
not  let  it  curdle.     When  cold  add  i  teaspoon  vanilla. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  103 


COFFEE  PUFF. 

I  pint  cream,  ^  cup  powdered  sugar,  V2  cup  cold 
coffee.  Whip  cream,  when  nearh^  done  add  sugar, 
then  the  coffee  slowly.  Put  it  in  a  pail  or  mould. 
Pack  in  ice  and  salt;  use  ^  as  much  salt  as  ice  and 
let  it  stand  three  hours.  Before  serving  dip  pail  in 
warm  water  for  a  second,  then  slip  from  the  mould. 

MRS.  C.  K.   MORTON. 

ANOTHER. 

I  pint  sweet  cream,  ^i  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  strong 
coffee.  Beat  the  cream  and  sugar,  add  coffee,  then 
pack  as  for  ice  cream.  Let  it  remain  three  hours 
without  stirring. 

MRS.  FRED  CARL. 

COFFEE  JELLY. 

I  box  of  gelatine,  i^  quarts  of  coffee.  Strain 
coffee,  sweeten  slightly,  pour  into  mould,  serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

MISS  E.  A.  WAITE. 

PINEAPPLE  ICE. 

4  cups  water,  3  cups  sugar,  2  eggs  (whites.)  Boil 
together  the  sugar  and  water.  Add  Vz  a  can  grated 
pineapple.   When  nearly  frozen  add  whites  of  the  eggs. 

LOUISE  BARDWELL. 
MILK  SHERBET. 

Juice  of  2  lemons,  i  pint  of  sugar,  i  quart  of  milk. 
Do  not  mix  lemon  and  milk  until  ready  to  freeze. 

MISS.  EUNICE  MORTON. 

BEATEN  CREAM. 

Place  a  bowl  in  a  pan  of  pounded  ice,  pour  in  it  i 
pint  rich  cream  beat  until  stiff.  Sift  in  gently  8  table- 
spoons powdered  sugar  and  ^4  teaspoon  vanilla.  This 
may  be  used  for  filling  to  cake,  charlotte  russe, 
cream  cakes  or  eclairs. 


104  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

MILK  SHERBET. 

1  pint  of  sugar,  juice  of  2  lemons,  i  teaspoon  of 
extract  of  lemon,  i  quart  of  milk.  Mix  the  extract, 
sugar,  and  juice  together  in  freezer,  then  pour  in  the 
milk  and  freeze  at  once. 

MRS.  W.  H.  BELDEN. 

ICE  CREAM. 

2  quarts  milk,  2  cans  condensed  milk,  i  cup 
sugar,  flavor  to  taste.  This  makes  i  gallon. 

MRS.  R.  BILLINGS. 

RASPBERRY  PUFF. 

2  eggs  (whites)  beaten  stiff,  ^  cup  sugar,  ^^  cup 
raspberry  jam,  all  beaten  till  very  stiff.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

MRS.  C.  W.  MARSH. 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM. 

I  cup  strong  coffee,  i  large  cup  sugar  boiled 
together  until  it  is  a  syrup.  While  hot  add  a  cup  of 
milk  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten.  Take 
syrup  from  the  fire  and  pour  over  the  eggs  and  milk, 
beating  rapidly.  Then  return  to  the  fire  and  cook 
until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Great  care  must  be  taken 
that  it  does  not  curdle.     Add  i  pint  cream  and  freeze. 

MRS.  E.  A.  WAITE. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM. 

4  heaping  tablespoons  sugar  put  on  the  range  in 
a  sauce  pan,  and  kept  there  until  it  melts,  smokes 
and  boils,  2  cups  milk  boiling.  Beat  the  3'olks  of  4 
eggs  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk,  then  add  burnt 
sugar  and  mix  well  together  Finally  add  2  small 
cups  of  granulated  sugar.  Put  on  ice  to  cool.  Before 
freezing  add  i  pint  of  cream. 

MRS.  E.  A.  WAITE. 


HATFIELD   COOK  BOOK.  105 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM. 

3  ^gg-'^i  I  pii^t  milk,  i  cup  sugar,  i  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Make  the  custard  several  hours  before  freez- 
ing and  add  i  pint  sweet  cream. 

For  raspberry  ice  cream  omit  the  vanilla  and  add 
I  quart  berries.  Put  i  cup  sugar  on  berries  and  let 
stand  an  hour  or  two  before  mashing  and  setting 
through  the  strainer, 

MRS.  E.  A.  WAITE. 

STRAWBERRY  SHERBET. 

2  quarts  of  berries,  i  pint  sugar,   i^i  pints  water, 

1  tablespoon  gelatine.  Mash  berries  and  sugar 
together,  and  let  stand  two  hours.  Soak  gelatine  in 
cold  water  just  enough  to  cover.  Add  i  pint  of  the 
water  to  the  berries  and  strain.  Dissolve  gelatine  in 
i^  pint  of  boiling  water.  Add  this  to  the  strained 
mixture  and  freeze.      Raspberry  sherbet  the  same. 

MISS  EMMA  A.  WAITE. 

ICE  CREAM. 

I  quart  of  milk,   i   cup  of  sugar,   i   tablespoon  of 
corn    starch,    4    eggs.     Save    out    whites  of  2    eggs 
Make  custard.      Beat  the  whites  of  2   ^gg^,  and  add 

2  tablespoons  sugar.     Stir  in  the  custard  just  before 
freezing. 

MRS.  ANNA  ELDRIDGE. 
LEMON  ICE. 

6  lemons,  juice  of  all,  and  grated  rind  or3.  i  large 
sweet  orange,  juice  and  grated  rind,  i  >2  pints  of 
water,  i  pint  sugar.  Squeeze  out  every  drop  of  juice 
and  add  the  rind  of  the  orange,  and  let  stand  one-half 
hour.  Strain,  squeezing  the  bag  dry;  mix  in  the 
sugar  and  then  the  water.  Stir  until  sugar  is  entirely 
dissolved,  and  then  freeze. 

MRS.  R.   M.  WOODS. 


106  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

LEMON  ICE. 

3  cups  sugar,  4  lemons,  V+  box  gelatine,  i  quart 
water.  Boil  sugar  and  water  together,  let  it  cool. 
Dissolve  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water,  then  pour  a 
cup  of  boiling  water  over  it.  Grate  the  rind  of  2 
lemons.  Freeze  same  as  ice  cream.  When  half 
frozen  add  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs. 

MRS.  C.  D.   BARDWELL. 

ICE  CREAM. 

2  quarts  sweet  milk,  6  eggs,  i^^  cups  sugar,  i 
heaping  tablespoon  corn  starch.  When  cool  add  i 
quart  sweet  cream,  sweeten  to  taste,  flavor  and  freeze. 
This  will  make  i  gallon. 

MRS.  C.   M.   BARTON. 

NUT  ICE  CREAM. 

I  quart  cream,  i  coffee  cup  milk,  i  coffee  cup 
sugar,  thoroughly  heated.  Wlien  cold,  add  i  table- 
spoon vanilla  and  i  cup  English  walnuts  chopped 
fine.      Freeze. 

MISS  EUNICE  MORTON. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK-  1^7 


108  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


CAKE. 


With  weights  and  measures  just  and  true, 
Oven  of  even  heat, 
Well  buttered  tins  and  quiet  nerves, 
Success  will  be  complete. 


MACAROONS. 


I  teacup  pounded  blanched  almonds,  i  teacup 
brown  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour,  i  egg^  (white,)  salt, 

The  white  of  the  egg  must  be  sufficient  to  mois- 
ten so  that  they  can  be  molded  into  balls,  as  large 
as  a  walnut.  Place  them  well  apart  upon  buttered 
white  paper,  the  thinner  the  paper  the  better. 

MRS.  A.  M.  PECK. 

COCOANUT  CAKE. 

j4  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  }i  cup  cocoanut,  ^ 
cup  milk,  2}4  cups  flour,  4  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder.     This  make  2  loaves. 

MISS  M.  MILLER. 

POP  DOODLE. 

I  egg^  I  cup  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  2  scant  cups  flour, 
2  scant  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Butter  size  of  a 
walnut.  Bake  in  a  dripping  pan,  but  before  putting 
in  the  oven,  sprinkle  sugar  and  cinnamon  on  top  of 
batter. 

MRS.  FRED  CARL. 


no  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

HERMIT  CAKES. 

1  cup  butter,  i  ^/^  cups  white  sugar,  3  eggs,  ^  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  milk,  i  nutmeg,  i  teaspoon 
each  of  all  kinds  of  spice,  %  pound  currants,  ^^4  pound 
citron  chopped  fine.  Mix  hard,  roll  thin,  cut  like 
cookies.       Will    keep  nicely. 

MRS.  W.  H.  BELDEN. 

POUND  CAKE. 

10  ounces  sugar,  10  ounces  flour,  8  ounces  butter, 
5  eggs.  Mix  the  flour  and  butter,  grating  the 
nutmeg  in  the  flour.  Frotli  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beat  the  yolks  hard  with  sugar,  add  alternately  the 
whites  and  the  butter  and  flour.     Beat  hard. 

MRvS.  G.  A.  BILLINGvS. 

FILLING  FOR  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  sweet  cream.  Boil  together 
twenty  minutes. 

MRS.  J.  E.  PORTER. 

BLACK  FRUIT  CAKE. 

3  eggs,  I  cup  butter,  i  cup  molasses,  i  cup  brown 
sugar,  ^  nutmeg,  i  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and 
cloves,  5'2  teaspoon  each  all-spice  and  saleratus,  i^ 
cups  currants,  ij^  cups  raisins.  Stir  in  flour  until 
very  stiff, 

MRS.  J.  H.  HOWARD. 

BLACK  OR  WEDDING  CAKE. 

3  pounds  raisins,  3  pounds  currants,  i  '^i  pounds 
sugar,  i^  pounds  citron,  i^  pounds  butter,  i^ 
pounds  flour,  14  eggs,  2  lemons,  grated  rind,  nutmegs, 
cloves,  and  all-spice  to  taste,  i  cup  molasses,  3  gills 
brandy,  i  gill  wine,  i  teaspoon  soda. 

MRS.  L.  L.  PEASE. 


HATFIELD    COOK   BOOK.  Ill 


WALNUT  CAKE. 

ij/^  cups  sugar,  ^i  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour  ^^  cup 
milk,  4  eggs,  (whites  ouly,)  1)4  teaspoous  baking 
powder,  i  cup  walnut  meats, 

MISS  EMMA  WAITK. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

I  cup  sugar,  i  small  tablespoon  shortening,  i 
whole  Qigg  or  two  whites,  7^  cup  milk,  1^/2  cups  flour, 
I  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar.  Flavor 
with  vanilla,  bake  in  shallow  tins.  Frost  with  boiled 
frosting  flavored  with  vanilla.  Dissolve  2  squares 
Baker's  chocolate,  and  spread  over  the  top.  or  make  a 
frosting  by  taking  2  tablespoons  milk  and  stir  it  stiff 
with  powdered  sugar.  Flavor  and  spread  the  choco- 
late over  it. 

MRS.  FRANK  JONES. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

4  ^ggs,  2  cups  flour,  2  cups  sugar,  i  lemon,  i 
heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  i  scant  cup  cold 
water,  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar 
together  twenty  minutes,  adding  3  or  4  tablespoons 
water  and  beat  five  minutes.  Add  flour  and  lemon, 
last  of  all  add  whites  after  they  have  been  well  beaten. 
Stir  as  little  as  possible  after  adding  the  whites. 

MISS  E.  SHATTUCK. 

ANGEL  CAKE. 

II  eggs,  (whites,)  i>^  cups  sugar,  i  cup  pastry 
flour,  I  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  i  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Pleasure  the  flour  after  being  sifted  six  times.  Sift 
flour  and  cream  tartar  together,  beat  the  whites  to  i 
stiff  froth,  beat  the  sugar  into  the  eggs,  add  seasoning 
and  flour,  stirring  lightly  and  swiftly.  Bake  forty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  in  an  ungreased  pan. 

MRS.  E.  B.  D. 


112  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

}4  Clip  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  i  cup  sweet 
milk,  3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  The 
juice  of  one  orange  added  last.  Bake  in  layers.  Put 
together  with  icing  and  sliced  oranges,     2  loaves. 

MRS.  GREENE. 

QUICK  LOAF  CAKE. 

I  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  milk,  2  eggs, 
2  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  i  teaspoon  soda,  5  cups 
flour,  raisins  and  spice  to  taste. 

MRS.  M.  H.  BURKE. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE. 

5  ^§"§"^5  I  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  flour,  pinch  of  salt. 
Boil  sugar  with  just  a  little  water  until  clear  and 
pour  on  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff,  then 
beat  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  add  yolks  which  have 
been  beaten  light,  then  flour  sifted  3  times  and  the 
juice  of  a  5^  lemon.  Bake  in  ungreased  pan  forty 
minutes. 

MRS.  GEO.  BILLINGS. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

54  cup  butter,  i  cup  boiling  water.  Set  over 
stove  to  boil,  i  cup  pastry  flour,  stir  into  butter  and 
water  while  boiling,  when  cold  add  3  well  beaten 
eggs,  soda  size  of  a  pea,  mixed  with  the  flour.  Bake 
on  buttered  pans,  making  twelve, 

CREAM. 

^  pint  milk  on  stove,  i  egg,  ^^  cup  sugar,  4 
tablespoons  flour,  2  teaspoons  lemon.  Pour  on  boil- 
ing milk  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Add  extract 
when  cold.      Fill  the  cakes  as  you  want  them. 

MRS.  A.  S.  BROWN. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  113 


PORK  CAKE. 

^/^  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork  without  lean  or  rind, 
chopped  as  fine  as  lard.  Pour  on  %  pint  boiling 
water,  i  ^gg^  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  molasses,  i  tea- 
spoon soda,  2  cups  raisins,  i  cup  of  currants,  citron 
chopped, nutmeg,  all-spice,  cloves,  cinnamon.  Thicken 
as  thick  as  loaf  cake. 

MRS.  C.  E.  HUBBARD. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE   (devu.s'  food.) 

%  cup  butter,  i]4  cups  sugar,  ^^  cup  milk,  2 
eggs,  ^  cake  of  chocolate,  dissolved  in  ^  cup  of  boil- 
ing water,  i^  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  i  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Bake  in  2  la3'ers  and 
cover  with  icing,  putting  icing  between  the  layers. 

MRS.  S.  G.   HUBBARD. 

HALLIGAR  CAKE. 

I  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  %  cup  milk,  %  cup 
butter,  whites  of  4  eggs,  i  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  ^ 
teaspoon  soda. 

MRS.  D.  L.   FITZGERALD. 

CAKE  WrrHOUT  EGGS. 

I  cup  sugar,  2  cups  sifted  flour,  5  tablespoons 
butter,  I  teaspoon  of  vanilla  or  lemon,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder.  Beat  thoroughly,  good  with  choco- 
late frosting. 

ULA  GRAVES. 

COCOANUT  CAKE. 

I  cup  sugar,  i  cup  cocoanut,  2  cups  flour,  ^2  cup 
milk,  ^'2  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  cream,  sugar  and  butter.  Add  beaten  eggs, 
then  milk  and  lastly  flour  and  baking  powder  sifted 
together. 

MISS  NELLIE  WHALEN. 


114  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

I  cup  butter,  T  cup  strong  coffee,  i  cup  sugar,  4 
cups  flour,  I  cup  molasses,  i  pound  raisins,  %  pound 
citron,  ^  pound  currants,  i  teaspoon  soda.  2  teaspoons 
cream  tartar,  i  teaspoon  of  each  of  the  spices. 

MRS.  D.  L.  FITZGERALD. 

FIG  CAKE. 

1 5^  cups  sugar,  ^2  cup  butter,  whites  of  3  eggs,  i 
cup  milk,  I  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar, 
23^  cups  of  flour.  Bake  in  3  or  4  tins.  Filling: — y^ 
pound  figs,  chopped  fine,  y^  cup  of  water,  1  cup  of 
sugar.  Boil  on  stove  until  like  jelly,  then  spread 
between  cake. 

MRS.  F.  H.  BARDWELL- 

COMPOSITION  CAKE. 

35^  cups  of  flour,  2  cups  of  sugar,  %  cup  of  butter, 
3  eggs,  I  cup  of  sw^eet  milk,  i  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 
^  teaspoon  soda.     Spice  and  fruit. 

MISS  A.  p.   LYMAN. 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

I  square  Baker's  chocolate,  ^4  cup  milk,  yolk  of 
I  Q^ggi  2  tablespoons  sugar,  i  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cook 
like  boiled  custard  and  stir  into  cake  part.  Cake: — 
I  cup  sugar,  %  cup  milk,  i  ^2  cups  flour,  ^  cup  butter, 
I  ^g^g)  I /"a  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

MISS  M.  L.  WAITE. 

CREAM  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Break  2  eggs  in  a  cup,  fill  with  cream,  i  cup  of 
sugar,  13^  cups  of  flour,  i  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar, 
^  teaspoon  of  soda.      Flavor  with  vanilla. 

MRS.  E.  M.  GRAVES. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


FRUIT  CAKE. 

I  pound  of  flour,  ^  pound  of  sugar,  3_,^  pound  of 
butter,  2  pounds  of  fruit,  %  cup  of  molasses,  y^  cup- 
of  strona:  coffee,  6  eggs,  i  teaspoon  cloves,  ^<  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  ^/^  teaspoon  nutmeg,  \^  teaspoon  soda. 

RAISED  CAKE. 

3  cups  of  milk,  2  cups  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  \'east. 
Put  together  in  the  order  given.  Add  flour  to  make 
a  batter  as  stiff  as  can  be  with  a  spoon.  In  the 
morning  add  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  butter,  )4  cup  lard, 
2  eggs,  2  nutmegs,  raisins.  Work  well  with  hands 
until  very  light.  Put  in  pans  and  let  rise  again. 
Makes  3  large  or  4  small  loaves. 

RAISED  CAKE. 

T  cup  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  -3  cup  yeast  If  com- 
pressed yeast  is  used  add  water  enough  to  make  -A, 
cup.  Make  stiff  and  stir  with  a  spoon.  Let  stand 
until  morning,  then  add  i  cup  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  2 
eggs.  Give  all  a  good  beating,  then  add  i  cup  floured 
raisins  and  other  fruit  if  desired.  This  makes  2  large 
loaves. 

ANNA  C.  DEA. 

RAISED  DOUGH  CAKE. 

1  cup  of  raised  dough,  i  cup  of  sugar,  %  cup  of 
butter,  14  cup  of  milk,  i  cup  of  flour,  i  cup  of  raisins, 
I  Q^gg.,  I  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  ^  teaspoon  of  soda 
sifted  in  flour.     Spice  to  taste. 

MRvS.   E.  ELDRIDGE. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

2  eggs  well  beaten,  i  ^4  cups  sugar,  i  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  2  cups  flour.  Beat  together  thoroughly. 
xAdd  ^2  cup  of  cold  water. 

ANNA  E.  HARRIS. 


llfi  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


RAISED  LOAF  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  shortening,  (half  butter  and 
half  lard,)  3  cups  of  milk,  i  cup  of  yeast  or  1  com- 
pressed yeast  cake.  Stir  in  flour  sufficient  for 
a  stiff  batter,  and  let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning 
add  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  of  shortening,  2  eggs,  i  small 
teaspoon  soda,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  3  cups  raisins,  i 
cup  currants,  i  cup  citron.     Makes  4  loaves. 

MRS.  T.  GRAVES. 
LEMON  CAKE. 

4  eggs,  I  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  3 
tablespoons  melted  butter,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
I  cup  flour.  Sauce: — i  lemon,  (juice  and  grated 
rind,)  i  cup  cold  water,  i  cup  sugar,  i  ^gg^  i  table- 
spoon corn  starch.  Beat  lemon  rind  and  egg  together, 
add  sugar  and  lemon  juice,  dissolve  cornstarch  in  cold 
water.     Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  it  jellies, 

MRS.  JOSEPH  STODDARD. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

iy2  cups  sugar,  li  cup  butter,  %  cup  milk,  2. cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  of  six  eggs, 
beaten  very  stiff,  i  teaspoon  extract  of  peach.  Sift 
flour  several  times  and  measure  after  sifting.  Bake 
in  shallow  tins. 

MRS.  P.  ELIZA  PORTER. 

CARAMEL  SPONGE  CAKE. 

2  eggs  beaten  very  light,  i  cup  sugar,  a  little  salt, 
^  cup  flour.  Add  these  three  ingredients  a  little  at 
a  time.  ^2  cup  flour  additional,  i  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  i  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  a  small  half  cup  of 
boiling  water.  Frosting: — i  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons 
water,  boil  until  it  hairs.  Beat  white  of  i  egg  stiff, 
stir  into  the  frosting  and  spread  on  cake.  Melt  i 
square  chocolate  and  spread  on  frosting. 

ANNA  M.  GRAVES. 


HATFIELD    COOK   BOOK.  117 


PLAIN  CAKE, 

1  egp^,  1  cup  sugar,  i  large  teas}>oon  sour  cream,  i 
cup  milk.  Piuch  of  soda  dissolved  iu  milk,  2  cups 
-flour,  2  teaspoous  bakiug  p-^wder.  Flavor  with  uut- 
iiieg  and  vanilla.      Bake  in  shallow  tin  as  layer  cake, 

MRS.  D.  W.   WKLLS. 

SPONGE  LAYER  CAKE. 

4  eggs,  1^2  cups  sugar,  ^4  cup  cold  water,  3 
teaspoon^  baking  powder,  3  -mall  cups  flour.  Flavor 
with  vanilla,  makes  3  lay^Ts,  Use  an}^  kind  of  cake 
filling. 

MRS.  A.  H.  GRAVKSs 

COLD  WATER  Sl'OXGE  CAKE, 

3  eggs  beaten  two  minutes,  1%  cups  ^ugar  beaten 
into  the  eggs  for  five  minutes,  i  cup  of  flour  in  which 
2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  have  been  mixed.  Bent 
all  together  three  minutes.  }4  teacnp  of  cold 
water  beaten  five  minutes.  A  little  salt,  i  more  cup 
of  flour.      Beat  all  together  three  minutes. 

MRvS.  CELIA  R.  WELLS. 

LAYER  CAKE. 

I  cup  of  sugar,  i^  cups  flour,  ^2  cup  of  milk,  2 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  ^4  teaspoon  soda  or  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in  three  layers  and 
fill  with  I  cup  of  whipped  cream,  or  i  lemon,  grated 
rind  and  juice,  i  egg,  i  small  cup  of  sugar,  butter 
size  of  walnut.  Beat  all  together  and  boil  until  thick. 
Spread  between  la3'(-rs  when  cold. 

MRS.  R.  M.  WOODS. 

ONE  EGG  CAKE. 

I  egg.  I  cup  sugar,  3,^  cup  milk,  i^/^  cups  flour,  3 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  tablespoon  butter.   Flavor. 

MRS.  WIGHT. 


118  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


SWISS  CAKE. 

2  eggs,  I  heaping  cup  of  sugar,  ^4  cup  of  butter, 
I  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2^  cups  of  flour,  i^  teaspoons 
baking  powder.  Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream. 
Beat  the  eggs  thoroughl3^  This  quantity  makes  two 
loaves. 

MRS.   L.  S.  BLI.SS. 

ALBION  CAKE. 

I  cup  sugar,  ]A,  cup  butter,  ^  cup  water,  2  eggs, 
(3^olks,)  i^  cups  flour,  3  even  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  next  the  water,  then  flour, 
lastly  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  very  stiff. 

MRS.  A.  AVERY. 

CAKE  FILLING. 

I  cup  cream,  i  cup  sugar  boiled  twenty  minutes, 
flavor  to  taste. 

MRS.  D.  F.  SHATTUCK. 

WALNUT  FILLING  FOR  CAKE. 

Whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiff,  3  large  tablespoons 
white  sugar,  i  cup  chopped  walnut  meats,  flavor  to 
taste,  or  use  boiled  frosting  into  which  stir  the  meats. 

MRS.  D.  BILLINGS. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING. 

I  square  of  chocolate,  4  tablespoons  of  thick 
cream,  )4^  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  cook  over  steam. 

MRS.  ERNEST  GODIN. 

CREAM  CHOCOLATE  FILLING. 

I  cup  sweet  cream,  i  cup  sugar,  2  squares  grated 
chocolate,  i  tablespoon  flour.  Cook  as  custard,  letting 
the  water  boil  twenty  minutes.      Beat  until  light. 

MARION  WARNER. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  119 


FILLING  FOR  LAYER  CAKE. 

Grate  i  large  apple,  add  i  cup  sugar,  stir  for 
twent}'  minutes,  add  white  of  i  ^gg  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  stir  ten  minutes,  then  add  i  teaspoon  white 
rose  and  stir  five  minutes  more. 

MRS.  B.   IM.  WARNER. 


CARAMEL  CAKE. 

3  eggs  whites,  i  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  ^2  cup 
milk,  lyi  cups  flour,  i  heaping  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 


CARAMEL  FILLING. 

Piece  of  butter  size  of  an  o^gg^  i  pint  brown  sugar, 
%  cup  of  milk.  Boil  twenty  minutes  or  until  quite 
thick.     Pour  over  the  cake  while  warm. 

MARY  K.  BARNES. 


LAYER  CAKE. 

^cup  sugar,  y2  cup  milk,  i  heapingcup  flour,  i  ^gg, 
little  salt,  I  tablespoon  melted  butter,  2  teaspoonsbaking 
powder.  Filling: — i  cup  cream,  i  cup  sugar,  i  square 
chocolate,  grated,  i  dessert  spoon  flour.  Boil  twenty 
minutes.  Scald  cream,  mix  dry  chocolate,  sugar, 
flour  and  add  to  the  cream,  when  cold  beat  with  Qgg 
beater  until  thick  enough  to  spread. 

MRS.  ALICE.  L.  BARDWELL. 

SNOW  CAKE. 

I  cup  pulverized  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  whites  of  3 
eggs  beaten  very  light,  i^^  cups  flour,  ^  cup  sweet 
milk,  scant  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  almond 
to  flavor.  To  frost,  beat  3  yolks  to  froth,  i  cup 
pulverized  sugar.      Flavor  with  vanilla. 

MRS.  J.  E.  PORTER. 


120  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


COLD  WATER  CAKE. 

2  cups  sttgar,  i  cup  butter,  i  cup  cold  water,  4. 
cup--  flour,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  i  tea- 
spoon soda.  Nutmeg  and  fruit  if  you  like.  Makes- 
2  loaves, 

PEAr<L  CAKE, 

%  cup  butter,  r  cup  sugar,  whites  of  2  eggs,  i  cup 
milk,  2  full  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
little  salt,  I  teaspoon  vanilla.  Work  butter  and  sugar 
thoroughly,  then  add  milk,  then  flour  with  baking 
powder  well  mixed;  lastly  whites  of  eggs. 

MRvS.  JAMES  PORTER. 

LAYER  CAKE. 

2  Qg^^^  I  Clip  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  ^2  cup  sweet 
milk,  I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  J/^  teaspoon  of  soda,. 
I  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract  Filling  for  cake: — 2  cups 
sugar,  I  cup  sweet  cream.  Boil  together  twenty  minutes. 

MRS.  ERNEST  GODIN. 


WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE, 

1  cup  but'er,  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  miik,  3^  cups 
flour,  I  grated  cocoanut,  i  pound  citron,  i  pound 
almonds,  blanched  and  cut  fine,  2  heaping  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  whites  of  5  eggs.  If  dessicated  cocoa- 
nut  use  I  cup, 

MRS.  C.  A.  JONES. 

LEMON  CAKE. 

1  pound  flour,  i  pound  sugar,  ^  pound  butter, 
7  eggs,  juice  of  i  lemon,  rind  of  2.  The  sugar,  butter 
and  yolks  must  be  beaten  a  long  time,  adding  by 
degrees  the  flour,  whites  last,  i  goblet  currants,  i 
teaspoon  baking  powder, 

MRS.  ELIHU  MARSH. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK  Vl\ 


ROLLED  JELL^    CAKE. 

3  eggs,  I  cup  sugar,  i  cup  flour,  2  tablespoons 
cold  water,  pinch  of  salt,  i  heaping  teaspoon  baking 
powder.  Beat  yolks  until  light,  then  add  sugar,  water 
and  salt,  lastly  stir  in  the  flour  and  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  a  long  tin  well  greased.  Turn  on  a  damp 
towel.     Cover  the  top  with  jelly  and  roll. 

MISS  CLARA   FOLEY. 


ANOTHER. 

2  eggs,  I  cup  sugar,  i  cup  flour,  i]^  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  3  tablespoons  water.  Bake  in  a 
dripping  pan,  spread  with  jelly,  before  cake  is  cold. 
Roll  quickly. 

MRS.  D.  W.  WELLS. 


QUEEN  CAKE 

^  pound  shortening,  {l4  pound  butter,  y^  pound 
lard,)  I  pound  sugar,  i  pound  eggs,  (9,)  i  cup  milk, 
5  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  %  pound 
citron  sliced  thin  and  floured  Will  make  two  very 
large  loaves,  or  three  fair  sized.  If  fruit  is  desired, 
take  one  pound  of  mixed  raisins,  currants  and  citron, 
leaving  out  the  %  pound  citron  in  the  above  rule. 

MRS.  W.  H.  BELDEN. 


SOUR  MILK  CAKE. 

1  cup  raisins,  %  cup  butter,  i  cup  sour  milk,  i^ 
cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon  soda,  i  egg. 
Spice  to  suit  the  taste.     Nutmeg,  cloves,  cinnamon. 

MRS.  C.  E.  HUBBARD. 


ia2  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


SPICE  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  i  egg,  %  cup  of  butter,  2^  cups 
flour,  I  cup  buttermilk,  i  cup  raisius,  %  cup  molasses, 
I  teaspoon  soda  i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  i  teaspoon 
cloves. 

MRS.   ERNEST  GODIN. 
CHOCOLATE  MARBLE  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  i  cup  milk,  3  cups 
flour,  2  ej^^gs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  squares 
chocolate  Dissolve  chocolate  in  a  little  hot  water. 
Add  y2  cup  sugar,  i  teaspoon  vanilla.  To  this  add 
three  tablespoons  of  the  mixture.      2  loaves. 

MRS.  G.  MORTON. 
LAYER  CAKE. 

3  eggs  well  beaten,  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  2 
large  teaspoons  baking  powder.  ^  cup  cold  water. 

MRS.  C.  E.  HUBBARD. 

ANGEL  CAKE. 

5  eggs,  whites  only,  7^'  tumbler  of  sugar,  ^ 
tumbler  flour.  ^  teaspoon  vanilla,  %  cream  tartar 
Beat  the  whites  stiff.  Add  the  sugar  in  which  the 
vanilla  and  cream  tartar  has  been  mixed. 

MRS.  D.  W.  WELLS. 

MARBLE  CAKE. 

I  ^g^,  (or  not,)  I  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  each  butter 
and  sweet  milk,  2  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  salt.  For  the  dark  part  take  a  cup  of  the 
light  batter.  Add  grated  chocolate  to  make  a  dark 
brown.      Put  in  alternate  layers,  the  light  on  the  top. 

MRS.  A.  MATHEWS. 
WHITE  CAKE. 

I  cup  sugar,  Yz  cup  butter,  ^  cup  milk,  2  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  4  eggs,  whites  only. 

MRS.  R.  S.    ROSS. 


HATFIELD    COOK   HOOK.  123 


FRUIT  CAKE. 

I  cup  butter,  4  eggs,  i  cup  sour  milk,  35^  cups 
flour,  2  cups  raisins.  }4  cup  citron,  2  cups  currants, 
spices 

MRS.   R.  S.   ROSS. 

WALNUT  CAKE. 

I  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter,  }4  cup  milk,  1^4  cups 
flour,  2  eggs  beaten  separately,  3  tablespocm^  baking 
power,  I  cup  chopped  walnuts. 

MISS  E.   MORTON. 

ANGEL  CAKE. 

4  eggs,  whites  only,  well  beaten,  ^  tumbler  gran- 
ulated sugar,  }4  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  ^  tumbler  of 
flour,  }4  teaspoon  vanilla,  salt.  Bake  in  small  round 
tins,'  with  hole  in  center,  about  twenty  minutes  in 
moderate  oven. 

MRS.  G.  S.  BELDEN. 

DRIED  APPLE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

I  cup  dried  apples  soaked  over  night,  i  cup 
molasses  i  cnp  salt  pork  chopped  fine,  i  cup  boiling 
water  Pour  the  water  o^  er  the  pork,  add  the  apples 
cliopped  fine,  and  the  molasses.  When  cold  add  2 
eggs,  1%  teas]H)ons  of  soda,  i  teaspoon  cream 
tartar,  1  cups  flour,  all  kinds  spice.  Chopped  dates 
and  fruit  if  you  wish.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  stove 
oven. 

MRS.   R.  B.  ABBOTT. 

NO  EGG  FRUIT  CAKE. 

1  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  molasses,  i  cup  sour  milk, 
^  cup  butter,  i  rounded  teaspoon  soda,  i  teaspoon, 
nutmeg,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  i  teaspoon  cloves,  i 
cup  seeded  raisins,  i  cup  currants,  4  cups  flour 
Excellent  and  keeps  well. 

MRS.  CELIA  E.  WELLS. 


124  HATFIELD    COOK   BOOK. 

BLACK  HILL  CAKE 

2  eggs,  I  cup  sugar,  ^/^  cup  butter,  -^  cup  milk, 
^  teaspoon  soda,  i  teaspoon  cream  tartar.  2  cups 
flour  Reserve  ^  cup  of  the  dough  and  put  in  it 
a  tablespoon  of  molasses,  yolk  of  an  ^gg,  Yz  teaspoon 
each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  put  dark  dough 
on  top.     Flavor  the  light  part  with  lemon. 

MRS.  L.  H.  KINGSLEY. 

BOILED  FROSTING. 

%  cup  sugar  boiled,  white  of  i  ^gg-,  %  teaspoon 
cream  tartar,  ^  teaspoon  corn  starch,  ver}^  li^ht  and 
fluify. 

MRS.  C.  W.  MARSH. 


ADDITION. 


AUNT  EMILY'S  CAKE. 


I  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  eggs,  i  cup  milk,  4 
small  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoous  cream 
tartar,  (or  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.)      Flavor. 


CORRECTIONS. 

Page  113. — Cake  without  eggs.      Add  i  cup  milk. 

Page  1 17. — Plain  Cake.    Should  read  i  large  table- 
spoon of  sour  cream  instead  of  teaspoon  sour  cream. 

Page  123 — Fruit  Cake.      Add  i  teaspoon  soda. 

Page  123. — Dried  Apple  Fruit  Cake.      Should  be 
slow  oven,  not  stove  oven. 

Page  129. — Marshmallow  Cookies.       Add    i    tea- 
spoon cream  tartar,  V2  teaspoon  soda. 


HATFIELD   COOK   HOOK.  126 


126  HATFIELD   COOK  BOOK. 


DOUGHNUTS,  GINGER  BREADS,  COOKIES. 


DOUGHNUTS,  (very  fine.) 

^  cup  bitter,  i  cup  sugar,  1^2  pints  flour,  i]/^ 
teaspoons  Royal  Baking  powder,  i  egg,  ij^  cups 
ruilk.  Put  butter,  sugar  and  ^gg  together  smooth. 
Sift  flour  and  powder  together,  add  it  to  the  butter 
and  milk  etc  Mix  with  a  soft  dough,  flour  well  the 
board.  Roll  out  dough  to  ^^  inch  in  thickness,  cut 
out  with  large  doughnut  cutter,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 
Serve  with  sifted  sugar  over  them.  Makes  24  dough- 
nuts. 

DOUGHNUTS. 
I  ^ggy  Yz  cup  of  sugar,  piece  of   butter    size    of  a 
butternut,  i  cup  of  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Flour  sufficient  to  roll  out. 

MRS.  D.  H.  SHATTUCK. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

I  quart  of  flour,  i  cup  sugar,  i  Qgg>  2  tablespoon.^ 
shortening,  i  cup  milk,  2  teaspoous  baking  powder. 
I  small  teaspoon  salt.      Nutmeg  if  you  like. 

MRS.  D.   p.  MORTON. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

.  y^  cup  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  i  ^gg.  i  teaspoon  of 
cream  tartar,  ^  teaspoon  soda,  i  large  spoon  short- 
ening, little  salt,  flour  sufficient  to  roll  out.  Roll  in 
pulverized  sugar,  when  taken  from  kettle. 

MRS.  R.  B.  ABBOTT. 


128  HATFIELD    COOK   BOOK. 


GINGER  WAFERS. 

1  cup  of  molasses,  i  cup  brown  sugar,  i  cup  of 
lard,  %  cup  cold  coffee,  2  even  teaspoons  soda, 
I  of  ginger,  mix  stiff.  Roll  thin  and  bake  in  quick 
oven. 

MRS.  C.  D.  BARDWELL. 

CREAM  GINGER  BREAD. 

2  cups  flour,  I  cup  molasses,  ^  cup    sour    cream, 

1  teaspoon  soda,  i  Qg^^  i  teaspoon  ginger,  i  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  ]/2  teaspoon  salt. 

MRS.  J.  S.  WELLS. 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

2  cups  molasses,  i  cup  sugar  i  cup  shortning,  i 
^gg^  2  tablespoons  soda,  dissolve  in  little    hot    water, 

2  teaspoons  ginger,    salt.     Mix    hard    and    roll    very 
thin.     Makes  about  100. 

MRS.  G.  S.  BELDIN. 

GINGER  CAKE. 

%  cup  sugar,  %  cup  molasses,  ^  cup  lard,  salt, 
V2  cup  sour  milk,  ^  teaspoon  soda,  i  teaspoon 
ginger.    Spice  if  you  like.     Flour  to  drop  from  spoon, 

MRS.  O.  S.  GRAVES. 

GINGER  DROP  CAKES. 

Yz  cup  tiutter,  I  cup  sugar,  i  cup  molasses,  i  cup 
water,  2  teaspoons  soda,  i  teaspoon  ginger,  i  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  cloves,  currants,  salt, 
3^  cups  flour. 

MRS.  A.  L.   BARDWELL. 

OLIVE  GINGER  BREAD. 

5^  cups  flour,  2  cups  molasses,  i  cup  sour  milk, 
or  sweet,  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  ^  cup  butter,  2 
teaspoons  soda,  2  teaspoons  ginger. 

MISS  EUNICE  MORTON. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  12;) 


GINGER  SNAPS. 

I  cup  molasses,  ^2  cup  melted  shortening,  ^4 
teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  ginger,  small  teaspoon 
soda.  Flour  enough  to  mix  hard.  Boil  molasses  five 
minutes.  Take  from  stove  and  add  lard,  add  other 
ingredients.      Roll  out  thin  and  bake. 

ANNA  K.  HARRIS. 


COOKIES. 

I  cup  sugar,  i  ^gg.,  i  cup  sour  cream,  2  cups 
flour,  little  nutmeg  or  caraway  seed.  Drop  from 
spoon. 

MRS.  C.  D.  BARDWELL. 

MARSHMALLOW  COOKIES. 

1  cup  sugar,  ^'2  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons 
milk,  2^/2  cups  flour.  Cut  in  diamond  shaped  pieces, 
in  the  center  place  a  marshmallow,  fold  the  two  opposite 
points,  over  the  marshmallow  and  press  together,  after 
baked  they  will  look  like  little  baskets. 

MRS.   EDWARD  ELDRIDGE. 

SUGAR  COOKIES. 

2  cups  sugar,  ^^  cup  lard  or  butter,  i  Qgg,  i  cup 
sweet  milk,  i  teaspoon  lemon,  i  teaspoon  soda,  2 
teaspoons  cream  of  tartar.     Flour  to  roll. 

MRS.   ERNEST  GODIN. 

COOKIES. 

I  cup  molasses,  ^2  cup  sugar,  i  Qgg,  i  teaspoon 
soda,  I  teaspoon  salt.  Let  molasses  come  to  a  boil, 
beat  in  soda,  cool  a  little,  add  the  egg  (beaten  slightly,) 
sugar  and  salt  and  make  very  stiff  with  flour  and  roll 
thin. 

MRS.  C.  E.  WELLS. 


130  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


SOUR  CREAM  COOKIES. 

I  cup  sugar,  2]4  cups  flour,  )^  cups  sour  cream,  i 
teaspoon  soda,  a  little  salt,  i  tgg  Handle  lightly 
and  quickly,  roll,  then  bake  in  quick  oven. 

MISS  M.  E.  PHELPS. 

TART  CRUST. 

3  cups  flour,  I  cup  lard,  i  teaspoon  sugar,  3  tea- 
poons  water,  i  egg  (white.)  Rub  flour  and  lard 
together,  add  sugar  and  ^gg  well  beaten,  add  water, 
roll  about  as  thin  as  pie  crust. 

MRS  E.  B.  DICKINSON. 
LOVE  KNOTS. 

I  Q-gg.,  4  tablespoons  sweet  cream,  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  pinch  of  salt.  Flour  to  knead  very  hard,  roll 
out,  cut  in  narrow  strips,  tie  each  one  in  2  or  3  knots 
and  fr}^  in  hot  lard,  sprinkle  with  white  sugar  while 
hot. 

ULA  GRAVES. 
COOKIES 

3  cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  4  eggs,  4J/2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  3,4  cup  milk,  flour  enough  to  roll  out. 
Makes  large  quantity. 

MRS.  A.  H.  GRAVES. 
CRULLERS. 

I  tablespoon  butter,  5  tablespoons  sugar,  4  eggs, 
little  nutmeg.     Mix  very  stiff  and  fry. 

MRS.   ELIHU  MARSH. 

CRULLERS. 

3  eggs,  I  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  a  butternut, 
little  salt  and  nutrheg,  flour  to  roll  hard.  Cut  in 
squares,  slash  in  narrow  strips  from  one  side  nearl}' 
to  the  other,  to  look  like  fringe,  fr}^  in  hot  lard. 

MRS.  J.    H.  HOWARD. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  ISl 

CRULLERS. 

I  ^gg,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  Flonr  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Roll 
out  the  dough  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  in  strips 
2%  inches  long  and  1^2  inches  wide.  Cut  these 
into  6  small  strips,  leaving  ^4  of  an  inch  uncut  at 
either  end.  Take  up  ever}-  other  strip  on  fingers 
and  pull  apart,  so  that  the  uncut  ends  will  nearly 
meet,      I'Vy  in  hot  fat. 

MRS-  I.  B.  LOWELL- 
NUT  CRACKERS. 

I  pound  English  Walnuts,  3  eggs  (whites,)  27 
teaspoons  pulverized  sugar.  Beat  whites  and  sugar 
as  for  frosting.  Chop  the  nuts  fine  and  stir  in. 
Spread  this  over  saltines  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in 
a  slow  oven. 

LOUIvSA  BARDWELL. 

BRAMBLES. 

Crust: — 2  cups  flour,  i  cup  lard,  whites  of  2  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  4  tablespoons  water,  %  teaspoon  soda, 
I  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  little  salt.  Filling: — i  cup 
chopped  raisins,  i  cup  sugar,  i  ^gg.  i  lemon  (juice 
and  rind.)  Roll  out  crust  and  cut  in  small  squares 
and  put  a  teaspoon  of  filling  in  each.  Draw  the 
corners  together  and  bake. 

MRS.  C.  W.  MARSH. 

CRULLERS. 

I  cup  sugar,  %  cup  shortening  (butter,)  i  cup 
milk,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  nutmeg. 
Stir  in  flour  to  roll,  cut  in  rings,  set  in  the  oven  two 
or  three  minutes  before  frying. 

MRS.  Ct.  a.  billings. 


132  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


PICKUES, 


"Turnpike  road  to  people's  hearts 
I  find,  lies  through  their  mouths,  or 
I  mistake  mankind" 


IlIGDON  PICKLES. 


Take  green  tomatoes  and  chop  fine.  Salt  them 
and  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours,  i  cup  of  salt 
to  the  gallon  for  the  brine.  Then  pour  off  the  water, 
and  to  ever}^  gallon  of  tomatoes  add  two  quarts  of 
chopped  cabbage,  3  onions,  3  green  peppers,  (also 
chopped,)  3  pounds  sugar,  2  quarts  of  vinegar,  a 
desert  spoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  celery  seed, 
and  mustard  seed.  Heat  the  vinegar  scalding  hot, 
pour  over,  does  not  require  cooking. 

MRS.  W.  H.  BELDKN. 

PICCALILLI. 

Yz  bushel  green  tomatoes,  chopped  fine,  1^2  pints 
vinegar,  4  green  peppers,  3  tablespoons  of  salt,  2^^ 
cups  brown  sugar,  i  tablespoon  each  of  cloves  and 
all-spice.      Boil  until  tender. 

MRvS.  CHARLE.S  KARTLETT. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 

3  pounds  stemmed  currants,  2  pounds  brown 
sugar,  Yz  tablespoon  each  of  ground  cloves,  all-spice 
and  cinnamon,  %  pint  vinegar.     Boil  to  a  jam. 

MRS.  A.  H.  GRAVES. 


134  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

FRENCH  CHOW  CHOW. 

For  this  chow  chow,  select  i  quart  large  green 
cucumbers,  cut  in  small  pieces,  i  quart  tin3^  cucum- 
bers, 2  iuches  long  or  less,  i  quart  green  tomatoes 
sliced  or  cut  in  bits,  i  large  cauliflower  divided  into  tin}' 
flowerets,  4  large  green  peppers,  cut  in  coarse  bits. 
When  ready  put  in  a  weak  brine,  a  cup  of  salt  to 
gallon  of  water.  Soak  pickle  twent37-four  hours. 
Scald  in  same  brine  and  drain.  Make  paste  of  6 
tablespoons  of  ground  mustard,  i  of  tumeric,  i  cup 
flour,  I  cup  sugar,  2  quarts  vinegar.  Mix  the  drj^ 
ingredients  with  a  little  of  the  vinegar,  then  add 
remainder  of  vinegar.  Let  this  mixture  scald,  and 
stir  until  a  smooth  thick  pnste,  then  add  pickles 
and  it  is  done.  If  one  like  the  flavor  of  onions, 
6  small  onious  improve  it.  This  chow  chow  is  excel- 
lent the  day  after  it  is  made,  but  better  in  a  month 
of  time.     Put  in  jar. 

MRS.  W.  H.  BELDEN. 

GRAPE  CATSUP. 

I  quart  grapes,  i  quart  brown  sugar.  Squeeze 
out  the  pulps  and  cover  with  viuegar.  Boil  pulps 
and  vinegar  and  strain  to  remove  the  seeds,  being 
careful  not  to  let  it  burn,  then  add  sugar  and  skins 
with  I  tablespoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  all-spice  and 
}4  table.'^poon  cloves.     Boil  until  the  skins  are  tender, 

MRS.  \Vm.   H.   DICKINSON. 

COLD  CATSUP. 

I  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped  fine. 
Squeeze  juice  out,  then  add  i  tea  cup  onions  chopped 
fine,  I  cup  green  peppers,  i  cup  sugar,  i  pint  vinegar,  2 
stems  grated  horse  radish,  i  ounce  black  mu.stard,  . 
I  ounce  white  mustard,  i  ounce  celery  seed,  salt  to 
taste. 

MISS  CORNELIA  BILLINGS. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  135 

SWEET  PICKLED  PEACHES. 

lO  pounds  peaches,  7  pounds  sugar,  i  quart 
vinegar,  li  ounce  whole  cloves,  ^-2  ounce  whole 
cinnamon. 

MISS  EMMA  A.  WAITE. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

iS  ripe  tomatoes,  2  peppers,  2  onions,  :  cup 
sugar,  2 1'i  cups  vinegar,  2  teaspoons  of  salt,  cloves 
and  cinnamon.      Boil  one  hour. 

MRS.  M.  H.  BURKE. 

SWEET  PICKLE   (citron.) 

7  pounds  citron,  3  pounds  sugar,  i  quart  vinegar. 
All-spice,  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Cut  citron  in  slices 
and  let  stand  in  salt  and  water  over  night.  Drain, 
boil  in  water  with  a  teaspoon  of  alum  until  soft. 
Boil  sugar,  spices  and  vinegar.  Drain  the  citron  and 
pour  the  syrup  over  it. 

MISS  LUCY  COWXES. 

.     MUSTARD  PICKLE. 

I  pint  small  onions,  i  quart  cucumbers,  i  quart 
small  green  tomatoes,  i  head  cauliflower,  3  green 
peppers.  Boil  tomatoes  in'water  two  or  three  minutes, 
not  too  much.  Then  pour  over  the  whole,  boiling 
salt  and  water.  Let  this  stand  over  night,  then  pour 
over  hot  vinegar,  and  let  stand  tv/o  or  three  days, 
until  pickled.  Now  take  i  pint  of  vinegar,  i^i  cups 
sugar,  Yi  cup  flour,  2  tablespoons  dry  mustard. 
Mix  the  flour  and  mustard  w^ell,  then  wet  with  a  little 
cold  vinegar,  heat  vinegar  and  sugar  together.  When 
boiling  put  in  flour  and  mustard,  and  stir  until 
thickened  then  pour  over  the  other.  Four  times  this 
rule  will  make  2  gallons. 

MRS.  S.  G.  HUBBARD. 


136  HATFIELD    COOK   BOOK. 

PICKLE  LILLY. 

1  peck  green  tomates,  3  onions,  3  large  green 
peppers  chopped  fine.  Place  in  ajar  with  alternate 
layers  of  salt.  Let  stand  over  night,  in  the  morning 
drain,  then  cook  in  water  until  tender,  drain  again, 
add  I  quart  vinegar,  i  cup  sugar,  i  tablespoon  each 
of  cinnamon,  all-spice  and  cloves. 

MRS.  Wm.  JONES. 

PICCALILLI   (without  cooking.) 

2  quart  chopped  tomatoes,  i  pint  onions,  ]i^  pound 
peppers.  Mix  together  with  i  teacup  of  salt,  and 
let  stand  two  days.  Then  drain  and  add  j^  pound 
white  mustard  seed  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar. 
Put  in  stone  jar. 

MRS.  A.  H.  GRAVES. 

MUSK  MELON  PICKLE. 

Take  ripe  melons,  remove  seeds  and  peel,  cut  in 
small  pieces  and  put  them  into  a  small  jar,  cover 
with  hot  vinegar.  Let  them  stand  until  next  day, 
then  pour  off  vinegar,  heat  and  pour  on  again,  repeat 
this  process  until  the  fourth  da}^,  then  weigh  the 
melons  and  to  every  5  pounds,  add  3  pounds  of  white 
sugar.  I  quart  of  vinegar  and  spice  to  taste.  They 
'should  be  whole  spices  and 'tied  in  a  linen  cloth,  sim- 
mer until  tender.  Take  out  fruit  and  boil  the  syrup 
until  there  is  just  enough  to  cover  pickles. 

MRS.  H.    L.  WILLIAMS. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

I  quart  of  rock  salt,  i  gallon  vinegar  2  gallons 
w^ater  scalded  to  dissolve  the  salt.  Cool,  and  throw 
in  cucumbers  as  they  are  picked.  When  wanted  for 
use  put  into  spiced  vinegar.  They  will  keep  a  long 
time  in  this  preparation. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  137 

ONION  PICKLE. 

The  white  onions  called  silver  skin  are  the  best 
for  pickling.  They  should  be  of  uniform  size,  as 
large  as  a  hickory  nut.  Pour  boiling  water  on  them, 
and  the  peeling  can  be  quickly  done.  Drop  the 
peeled  onions  in  cold  salt  water.  Let  them  stand  over 
night.  The  next  day,  take  out  of  the  water  and 
drain.  Then  put  them  in  jars  with  mustard  seed, 
whole  mace  and  whole  peppers.  Pour  on  strong  cold 
vinegar  until  the  onions  are  covered.  The  jar  should 
be  closely  covered  and  set  away.  They  are  ready  for 
use  in  two  days. 

MRS.  R.  M.  WOODS. 


138  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


PRBSERVBS  AIND  JBI^UIES, 


"in  everything  you  do  aim  to  excel 

For  what  is  worth  doing,  is  worth  doing  well" 


PREPARING  FRUIT  FOR  PRESERVING. 

Blackberries,  Boil  moderately  about  Six  minutes. 

Plums, 

Raspberries, 

Cherries, 

Strawberries, 

Whortleberries. 

Bartlett  Pears  (halves,)  " 

Small  sour  Pears  (whole) 

Peaches  halves. 

Peaches  whole, 

Sour  Apples  (quartered)" 

Ripe  Currants, 

Wild  Grapes, 

Tomatoes, 


Boil 

modera 

tely 

about  Six  minu 

i  k 

a 

i  I 

Ten          " 

(( 

(( 

i  i 

Six 

a 

(( 

a 

Five 

u 

( ( 

a 

Eight      " 

i  I 

it 

a 

Five 

)" 

'' 

a 

Twent\  " 

e)" 

1 1. 

it 

Thirty    - 
Eight      " 

( I 

a 

a 

Fifteen    " 

1)- 

a 

a 

Ten         " 

ti 

( ( 

n 

Six          " 

(( 

(( 

a 

Ten         " 

li 

C( 

( ( 

Sixty       '■'■ 

140  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

AMOUNT  OF  SUGAR  TO  A  QUART  JAR. 

Cherries, Six  ounces. 

Strawberries, Eight 

Raspberries,      Four 

Bhtckberries, Six 

Qiiince, Ten 

Sour  Pears, Eight 

VN'ild  Grapes, Eight 

Peaches Four 

Bartlett  Pears, •   .   .   .   .   Six 

Pine  Apple, Six 

Plums, Eight 

Pie  Plant, Ten 

Ripe  Currants, Eight 

Cranberries, Twelve 

Sour  Apples    (quartered,) Six 


ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

12  medium  sized  oranges,  slice  them  leaving  out 
end  piece  and  seeds.  With  water  added  make  7  pints. 
Let  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Boil  until  tender,  then 
add  I  pound  sugar  to  i  pint  fruit  and  the  juice  of  2 
lemons.  Boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  and  put  in  cans 
or  jelly  tumblers. 


GOOSEBERRY  JAM. 

Top  and  stem  the  berries  and  wash  them  clean. 
Drain  and  weigh  them.  Take  equal  quantities  of 
berries  and  white  sugar.  Stir  them  well  together. 
Put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  boil  for  an  hour, 
stirring  them  constantly  to  keep  them  from  burning. 
When  soft,  mash.  Put  in  jelly  tumblers  and  when 
cold  cover  as  for  any  jelly.     Serve  with  cold  meats. 

MRS.  DAVID  BILLINGS. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  Ul 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Wash  the  currants  clean,  drain,  put  in  a  bag  and 
mash  them.  Squeeze  out  all  the  juice.  To  every  pint 
of  juice  allow  i  pound  sugar,  put  the  juice  in  a  kettle 
over  the  lire  and  heat;  add  the  sugar  and  let  come  to  a 
boil,  stirring  and  skimming  as  required.  Boil  from 
ten  to  twelve  minutes.      Pour  into  tumblers. 

MRS.  R.  BILLINGS. 

BLACKBERRY  PRESERVE. 

7  pounds  fruit,  3^2  pounds  sugar,  i  pint  good 
vinegar;  scald  together  and  let  stand  twenty-four 
hours.  Then  pour  off  juice  and  scald  it,  and  let  it 
stand  another  twenty-four  hours.  Then  scald  all 
together,  and  put  in  cans.  This  will  keep  a  year  or 
more. 

MISS  A.  p.  LYMAN. 

LEMON  JELLY. 

I  box  gelatine,  i  pint  cold  water,  let  it  stand  one- 
half  hour  to  one  hour.  Add  i  quart  boiling  water, 
i^^  pints  sugar,  the  juice  of  5  and  grated  rind  of  2 
lemons.     Strain  into  jell}'  mould  and  set  in  cool  place. 

MRS.  S.  G.   HUBBARD. 

LEMON  JELLY. 

Soak  I  box  of  gelatine  in  i  cup  of  cold  water. 
Add  I  quart  boiling  water,  2  cups  sugar  and  i  cup 
lemon  juice,  strain  into  a  mould  and  let  it  harden. 

MISS  MARIA  L.  PORTER. 

QUINCE  HONEY. 

I  quart  sugar,  i  pint  water,  2  teacups  grated 
quince.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  and  pour  into  jelly 
tumblers. 

M.   L.   PORTER. 


142  HATFIELD    GO  OK  BOOK. 

GREEN  GRAl'E  MARMALADE. 

Pick  tiie  grapes  from  stems,  wash  and  put  in  a 
porcelain  kettle  with  a  small  bowl  of  water,  boil 
slowly  until  soft  enough  for  the  seeds  to  slip  out, 
then  strain,  to  i  bowl  of  grape  juice  add  i  bowl  of 
granulated  sugar,  cook  slowly  half  an  hour  or  until 
thick  enouo:h  to  cut  with  a  knife  when  cool. 

CORNELIA  A.  BILLINGS. 

TO  PRESERVE  BLACKBERRIES. 

7  pounds  of  berries  and  t^'^^  pounds  of  sugar,  i 
pint  of  good  vinegar,  scald  all  together  and  let  it 
stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  turn  off  the  juice  and 
scald  it  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours  and  then 
scald  all  together. 

A.  LYMAN. 

BUTTERCUP  JELLY. 

i^  package  gelatine  soaked  in  ^i  cup  cold  water 
two  hours,  3  eggs,  i  pint  of  milk,  i  heaping  cup 
sugar,  I  teaspoon  vanilla,  bit  of  soda  size  of  a  pea 
stirred  into  milk.  Scald  milk,  stir  in  soaked  gelatine 
uutil  that  is  dissolved  and  strain  through  coarse 
cloth.  Add  sugar  and  j^olks  of  eggs,  return  to  kettle 
and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Let  cool  and  add 
flavoriug,  whip  white  of  i  Oigg  stiff.  When  yellow 
jelly  coagulates  around  edges,  beat  it  with  the  white 
of  ^gg. 

MRS.  DAVID  BILLINGS. 

CIDER  JELLY. 

I  box  gelatine,  i  pint  water  to  dissolve.  Let 
stand  twenty  minutes,  add  i  pint  boiling  water,  i  ^ 
pints  cider,  i^  pounds  sugar,  juice  and  rind  of  i 
lemon.  Let  it  boil  with  the  mixture.  Let  it  stand 
in  pan  of  cold  water  until  quite  cool.  Strain  through 
flannel. 

MISS  MARY  BRIGGS. 


HATFIELD   COOK  BOOK.  143 

CIDER  APPLE  SAUCE 

3  pails  sweet  apples,  3  quarts  boiled    cider,  i  pint 
molasses,  i  peck  quinces.     Boil  4  liours  slowly. 

MRS.  J.   II.   vSANDKRvSON. 

ORANGE  JELLY. 

I  box  gelatine  soaked  in  2  cups  cold  water,  2^ 
cups  sugar,  juice  of  4  oranges  and  grated  rind  of  2, 
3  cups  of  boiling  water.  Soak  gelatine  two  hours,  add 
juice,  and  grated  rind  and  sugar  and  leave  for  i 
hour.  Pour  in  boiling  water.  Stir  until  dissolved; 
strain  through  double  flannel 

MRS.  DAVID  BILLINGS. 


PRESERVED  PEARS. 

8  pounds  of  pears,  4  pounds  of  sugar,  y^  pound 
of  ginger  root  ,3  lemons,  i^^-^  pints  of  water.  Slice  the 
pears  ver}'-  thin,  also  the  lemon  very  thin.  Prepare 
the  syrup  with  water,  sugar  and  ginger  root.  When 
heated  to  boiling  put  in  pears  and  lemons,  boil  until 
pears  are  very  tender,  almost  clear,  then  skim  out 
pears,  ginger  root  and  lemons,  boil  down  the  syrup 
quite  thick  and  pour  over  the  whole. 

MRS.  SAMUEL  BILLINGS. 

CURRANT  CONSERVE. 

5  pounds  currants,  5  pounds  sugar,  2  pounds 
raisins,  4  oranges,  squeeze  juice  of  oranges  on  sugar 
put  the  peel  of  3  in  cold  water  and  let  come  to  a  boil 
slowly  to  remove  bitter  taste.  Chop  rather  fine,  stone 
the  raisins  and  chop,  add  to  currants,  sugar  and 
oranges  and  boil  slowly  twenty  minutes,  put  into 
jelly  tumblers. 

MRS.   E.   L.   DICKINSON. 


m  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


BBVERAGBS, 


"Drink,  pretty  creature,  drink."— Wordsworth. 


BEEF  TEA. 

1  pound  lean  beef  cut  into  small  pieces.  Put 
into  ajar  without  a  drop  of  water,  cover  tightly  and 
set  in  a  dish  of  cold  water.  Heat  gradually  to  a  boil 
and  continue  this  for  three  or  four  hours,  until  the 
meat  is  white.     vSeason  with  salt;  when  cold  skim. 

MRS.  G.  A.  BILLINGS. 

BEEF  EXTRACT. 

Take  lean  beef,  chop  in  fine  pieces,  place  in  glass 
fruit  jar,  sprinkle  on  just  a  little  salt  and  seal  tightl}''. 
Place  in  a  kettle  of  water  and  boil  four  hours.  Re- 
move bits  of  meat  before  using. 

MRS.  p:.  a.  HUBBARD. 
RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

2  cpiarts  raspberries,  i  pint  vinegar.  Let  stand 
three  or  four  days,  mash  and  strain  through  a  bag. 
Add  I  pound  sugar  to  each  pint  juice.  Boil  twenty 
minutes,  skim;  bottle  when  cold. 

RED  RASPBERRY  SHRUB. 

3  pints  raspberries,  i  pint  vinegar.  Let  stand 
three  or  four  days,  strain.  To  every  pint  of  juice  add 
I  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  twenty  minutes.  Bottle 
when  cold. 


146  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


CURRANT  SHRUB. 

To  I  pint  currant  juice  add  i  pound  loaf  sugar. 
Boil  five  minutes,  stir  it  constantly  while  cooking, 
and  when  cold  bottle  it.  i  or  2  spoonfuls  in  a  tumbler 
of  water  affords  a  refreshing  beverage. 

LEMON  SYRUP. 

I  pound  loaf  sugar  to  i  pint  lemon  juice.  Let  it 
stand  t\vent3^-four  hours  or  until  sugar  is  dissolved, 
stirring  it  often.  When  dissolved  wring  a  flannel  bag 
very  dry  in  hot  water  and  strain  the  syrup.  Bottle. 
This  will  keep  a  long  time. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

I  quart  juice,  ^^  pound  loaf  sugar,  %  ounce 
nutmeg,  '^,{1  ounce  ground  cinnamon,  yi  ounce  ground 
all-spice.  Boil  five  or  six  minutes.  When  cool  add 
I  pint  best  brandy.     For  sickness. 

MRvS.  M.  L.  PEASE. 

MEAD. 

3  pounds  white  sugar.  Pour  over  it  3  pints  of 
boiling  water,  i  pint  of  molasses,  ^4  pound  tartaric 
acid,  I  ounce  sassafras.  Bottle  and  use  as  a  syrup 
with  soda. 

INDL\N  MEAL  GRUEL. 

I  tablespoon  Indian  or  oat  meal,  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Mix  the  meal  smooth  with  cold  water.  Pour  upon 
this  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  turn  into  a  sauce 
pan  to  boil  gently  one-half  an  hour.  Stir  frequently. 
Strain  and  add  a  tablespoon  of  cream.  Some  persons 
like  it  sweetened  and  a  little  nutmeg  added,  but  to 
many  it  is  more  palatable  without  either. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  147 

MILK  PORRIDGE. 

2  cups  oat  meal,  2  cups  water,  2  cups  milk. 
Soak  the  oat  meal  over  uight  in  the  water.  Strain 
in  the  morning,  and  boil  the  water  half  an  hour. 
Put  in  the  milk.  Salt  to  taste.  Boil  up  once  and 
serve. 

SODA  CREAM. 

Mix  together  in  a  sauce  pan,  i  pound  sugar,  i 
egg,  I  tablespoon  of  flour,  i  pint  cold  water,  juice  of 
I  lemon.  Put  over  the  fire  and  let  scald,  remove  and 
add  I  ounce  of  tartaric  acid  and  i  tablespoon  of  flavor- 
ing. This  will  make  i  quart  of  syrup.  Bottle  and 
keep  on  ice,  when  ready  for  use  put  2  tablespoons  of 
cream  in  glass,  fill  half  full  of  cold  water  and  add  ^ 
teaspoon  baking  soda. 

MRvS.  O.  S.  GRAVES. 
TO  MAKE  COFFEE. 

I  tablespoon  coffee  for  each  person.  Mix  it  with 
an  Qgg  and  cold  water  to  make  a  paste:  then  add  boil- 
ing water  and  boil  five  or  ten  minutes.  Settle  the 
coffee  with  a  little  cold  water.  Serve  with  cream  or 
hot  milk. 

TO  MAKE  COFFEE  BY  FILTERING. 

Put  coffee  in  the  strainer  and  pour  over  it  boiling 
water.     If  not  strong  enough,  let  it  drip  again. 

TO  MAKE  TEA. 

Scald  tea-pot.      i  teaspoon  of  tea  for  i  cup.      Pour 
T  boil 
minutes. 


over  boiling  water  and  let  stand  on  back  of  stove  five 


CHOCOLATE. 

I  quart  water,  i^^  pints  milk,  2  squares  Baker's 
chocolate.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Steam  in  a  double 
boiler  two  hours. 

MRS.  C.  A.  JONES. 


148  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


COINRBCTIOINERV, 


"Sweet  to  the  sweet"— Shakespeare. 


FRENCH  VANILLA  CREAM. 

Break  into  a  bowl  the  white  of  i  or  more  eggs,  and 
add  to  it  an  eqnal  quantity  of  cold  water.  Then  stir 
in  confectioner's  sugar  until  you  have  it  stiff  enough 
to  mould  into  shape  with  the  fingers.  Flavor  to  taste. 
This  can  be  used  for  plain  creams  or  English  walnuts. 
Dates  or  any  kind  of  nuts  or  fruit  can  be  added. 
Grated  maple  sugar  or  chocolate  added  to  the  cream 
makes  a  nice  confection. 

ORANGE  DROPS. 

Grate  the  rind  of  i  orange  and  squeeze  the  juice 
over  it.  Strain,  then  stir  in  confectioner's  sugar 
until  it  is  stiff  enough  to  form  into  small  balls. 
Cocoanut  grated  can  be  added  to  above. 

FUDGE. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar,  i  cup  cream,  %  cake 
of  Baker's  chocolate,  a  piece  of  butter  (^  the  size  of 
an  ^gg,)  I  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Cut  the  chocolate  up, 
put  it  with  sugar,  cream  and  butter  in  a  sauce  pan. 
Boil  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  add  the  vanilla  and  stir  until  it  will  just 
spread  on  buttered  tins. 

MABEL  BILLINGS. 


150  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

FUDGE. 

2  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  milk,  i  square  of  chocolate. 
Heat  the  milk,  grate  chocolate  and  mix  dry  with 
sugar,  then  pour  the  heated  milk  over  it  with  the 
butter.  Cook  and  when  it  grains  by  stirring  a  little 
in  a  saucer  pour  in  a  cup  of  either  cocoanut  or  chopped 
nuts  and  2  teaspoons  of  vanilla.  Remove  from  the 
stove  and  beat  w^ell.  Pour  into  a  buttered  tin  and 
when  nearly  cold  cut  into  squares, 

HEIvEN  SMITH. 

PEANUT  TAFFY. 

1  pint  molasses,  li  cup  sugar,  i  tablespoon  vinegar, 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Boil  until  it  is 
brittle  in  water,  add  a  pinch  of  soda.  Put  in  the  meats 
of  a  quart  of  peanuts  and  pour  on  buttered  pans. 

MABEL  BILLINGS. 

WALNUT  CREAM. 

2  cups  of  coffee  A  sugar,  i  cup  cream,  i  quart 
hickory  nuts  or  i  pound  of  Knglish  walnuts.  Boil 
the  sugar  and  cream  until  it  becomes  brittle  in  cold 
water.  Put  in  the  meats,  stirring  well,  and  set  away 
on  buttered  plates  to  harden.  Be  sure  that  it  is 
boiled  enough  else  it  will  not  harden. 

SALTED  PEANUTS. 

Buy  the  raw  peanuts  and  shell.  Pour  boiling 
water  on  them  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes  until  the 
skins  slip  off  easily.  Melt  a  little  butter  in  a  drip- 
ping pan,  put  in  the  prepared  peanuts,  sprinkle  them 
with  a  little  salt,  then  place  on  the  grate  in  a  mode- 
rate oven.  Turn  occasionall}^  until  browned  as  much 
as  desired. 

MRS.  CHARLES  L.  GRAVES. 


HATF'IELD    COOK  BOOK.  151 


GLACI  NUTS. 


2  cups  sugar,  just  enough  water  to  dissolve  the 
sugar.  Boil  to  the  "crackle"  and  drop  in  English 
walnuts,  Brazil  nuts;  bits  of  orange,  pineapple  or 
any  fruit  you  prefer.  Remove  at  once  and  place  on 
buttered  plates  and  cool  ilnmediatel3^ 

BUTTER  SCOTCH. 

1  cup  sugar,  ^^  cup  cold  water,  ^  cup  vinegar, 
butter  size  of  butternut,  pour  in  buttered  pan. 

MRS.  SETH  KINGSLKY. 

FUDGE. 

2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  2  squares  chocolate. 
Butter  size  of  a  small  Q.%%.  Boil  all  together  until  it 
hairs.  Remove  from  stove  and  stir  until  it  grains. 
Pour  into  buttered  tins  until  it  hardens. 

MRS.  R.  BILLINGS. 
CREAM  TAFFY. 

I  cup  granulated  sugar,  i   tablespoon    vinegar,  % 

cup  water.     Let  ingredients  boil  until  the  candy  will 

crack  when  dropped  in    water.       Pour    into    buttered 

pans  to  cool,  then  flour  the  hands  and  pull   the  taffy 

until  white. 

ULA  gravp:s. 

FRENCH  CREAM  CANDY  COOKED. 

4  cups  white  sugar,  i  cup  hot  water,  flavor  with 
vanilla.  Put  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  pan  and  let  it 
boil  without  stirring,  about  eight  minutes.  If  creamy, 
and  will  roll  in  a  ball  between  the  fingers,  pour  the 
whole  into  a  bowl  and  beat  rapidly.  If  not  boiled 
enough  to  cream,  cook  a  little  longer,  but  not  too  much. 
Add  the  flavoring.  This  is  the  foundation  for  all 
French  creams.      It  can  be  used  in  any  shape. 

MARGERY   DAW. 


152  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


MOLASSES  CANDY. 

2  cups  molasses,  i  cup  sugar,  i  tablespoon  butter, 
I  tablespoon  vinegar,  i  teaspoon  soda. 

MRvS.  EUROTAvS  MORTON. 
CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

I  cup  rich  sweet  cream,  i  cup  brown  sugar,  i  cup 
white  sugar,  7  tablespoons  grated  chocolate,  i  table- 
spoon corn  starch  stirred  into  the  cream  also  soda  the 
size  of  a  pea.  i  tablespoon  butter.  Boil  all  these 
ingredients  together  except  the  chocolate  and  yi  of 
the  cream,  stirring  often  to  keep  from  burning.  Boil 
half  hour.  Mix  chocolate  with  cream  adding  little 
water  if  necessary.  Draw  the  sauce  pan  to  the  back 
of  the  stove  and  stir  well  wliile  adding  the  chocolate 
and  cream,  then  let  all  cook  together  for  fifteen  min- 
utes or  until  it  makes  a  hard  glossy  coat  on  the  spoon. 
Pour  into  buttered  tins  and  cut  into  squares. 

MRS.  GEO.  BARNES. 
MOLASSES  TAFFY. 

%  cup  molasses,  i  cup  white  sugar,  i  tablespoon 
vinegar,  2  cups  water.     Butter  size  of  an  ^gg. 

MRS.  GEO.  BELDEN. 

PEANUT  CANDY. 

I  cup  sugar  melted,  yj^  cup  chopped  nuts.  When 
sugar  is  melted  stir  in  the  nuts  and  pour  on  a  sheet 
of  tin. 

EUNICE  MORTON. 
PANOCHEE  CANDY. 

4  cups  brown  sugar,  i  cup  of  milk,  butter  size  of 
a  walnut.  Cook  about  twenty  minutes  then  put  in  a 
tablespoon  of  vanilla  and  the  meats  of  i  pound  of  En- 
glish walnuts.     Spread  on  a  buttered  dish. 

MISS  HELEN  SMITH. 


HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK.  153 

SALTED  ALMONDS. 

Shell  I  pound  almonds.  Pour  on  boiling  water 
and  let  stand  until  the  red  skins  will  slip  off  easily. 
Place  the  nuts  on  a  tin  and  rub  them  with  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  w^alnuts.  Shake  salt  over  all,  do 
not  get  them  too  salt.  Set  them  in  a  moderate  oven 
and  let  brown  as  much  as  desired, 

MRvS.  GEO.  BARNEvS. 

COCOANUT  CAKES. 

2  cups  sugar,  U  cup  w^ater.  Boil  until  it  crisps 
in  water,  take  off  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  creames, 
after  the  cand}'  is  beaten  to  a  cream,  stir  in  i  grated 
cocoanut,  make  in  good  sized  cakes  but  thin.  Different 
kinds  of  nuts  can  be  used  or  fruit  if  desired. 

NUT  CANDY. 

1  cup  milk  or  cream,  4  cups  brown  sugar,  i  cup  of 
nuts.  Butter  size  of  an  ^gg^  a  desert  spoon  of  vanilla. 
When  done,  make  into  squares. 

MARION  WARNER. 

PEPPERMINTS. 

2  cups  sugar,  ^2  cup  water.  Boil  five  minutes, 
flavor  with  peppermint,  stir  till  thick  and  creamy, 
drop  on  buttered  paper. 

MRS.  I.  B.  LOWELL. 


154  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


MISCEUUAINBOLJS. 


'Variety  is  the  spice  of  life  which  gives  all  its  flavor." 


TO  EXTERMINATE  RED  ANTS. 

Tie  sulphur  in  a  cotton  cloth  and  place  where 
they  are  troublesome.  Small  piece  of  camphor  gum 
or  elder  leaves  will  sometimes  drive  them  away. 

SODA. 

Common  baking  soda  is  excellent  for  scalds  and 
burns.  Moisten  the  burned  place  and  sprinkle  on 
the  soda.  It  seems  to  withdraw  the  heat  and  with  it 
the  pain. 

REMEDY  FOR  COUGH. 

Take  the  juice  of  i  lemon,  i  dessert  spoon  vaseline, 
Yi  cup  sugar  and  the  white  of  one  ^%%.  Beat  all 
together.     Take  spoonful  every  hour. 

MRS.  A.  WARNER. 

LAXATIVE  FIG  CONSERVE. 

Yi.  pound  of  figs,  chopped  fine,  i  ounce  of  powdered 
senna  leaves,  i  dram  cardamom  seeds,  (pulverized,) 
Yz  pint  molasses.  Let  molasses  come  to  a  boil  add 
chopped  figs  and  other  ingredients,  keep  in  jelly 
tumblers.     Dose,  ^  teaspoon  just  before  retiring. 

MRS.  R.  M.  WOODS. 


156  HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 

HAM  BRINE. 

To  I  pail  of  water  2  quarts  salt,  i  tablespoon 
saltpetre,  i  tablespoon  of  ammonia,  i  tablespoon 
baking  soda,  i  teacup  of  molasses,  i  teacup  of  sugar. 
Stir  all  together  till  dissolved,  add  this  cold. 

MRvS.  D WIGHT  MORTON. 

SAUSAGE. 

30  pounds  meat,  12  ounces  fine  salt,  2^^  ounces 
pepper  2  cups  sage,  1%  cups  savory  if  desired. 

MRS.  A.  PECK. 

PICKLE  FOR  HAM. 

For  I  hundred  pounds  of  pork,  allow  6  pounds  salt, 
2  pound  light  brown  sugar,  2  ounces  saltpetre.  Water 
sufficient  to  cover  hams.  Boil  and  skim  until  clear. 
Just  before  taking  from  fire  add  i  ounce  soda.  When 
cold  pour  this  pickle  over  the  ham. 

MRS  E.  B.  DICKINvSON. 

SAND  BAG  FOR  THE  SICK  ROOM. 

Get  some  clear,  fine  sand,  dry  it  thoroughly  in  a 
kettle  on  the  stove,  make  a  bag  about  eight  inches 
square  of  flannel,  fill  it  with  the  sand,  sew  the  opening 
carefully  together  and  cover  the  bag  with  cotton  or 
linen. 

JAPANESE  CLEANSING  FLUID. 

2  ounces  spirits  of  ammonia,  i  ounce  ether,  i 
ounce  alcohol,  i  ounce  glycerine.  All  put  in  i  bottle 
at  druggists,  2  ounces  white  powdered  castile  soap,  put 
up  in  white  paper.  Dissolve  soap  in  i  pint  of  water 
over  the  fire,  add  2  quarts  of  boiling  water,  when  nearly 
cold  add  the  bottle  of  ingredients.  Will  keep  for 
years  in  bottles  when  securely  corked. 

MRS.  R.  M.  WOODS. 


IIATJ-IELD    COOK  BOOK.  157 

WASHING  FLUID. 

1  pouud  Babbit's  Potash,  i  ounce  dry  ainiiioiiia, 
I  ounce  salts  tartar,  i  ounce  borax,  4  quarts  hot  water. 
Dissolve  potash  in  the  hot  water  and  when  a  little 
cool  add  the  other  ingredients.  Soak  the  clothes  in 
warm  water  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  into 
boiler  of  cold  water  to  which  has  been  added,  7^  cup 
of  fluid  and  ^  bar  of  soap.  Boil  fifteen  minutes. 
Put  through  2  tubs  water  and  hang  up  to  dr}^ 

MRS.  J.  E.  PORTER. 
POULTICE  FOR  SORE  THROAT. 

2  tablespoons  Indian  Meal,  2  tablespoons  wood 
ashes,  i  tablespoon  mustard,  i  tablespoon  salt.  Mix 
with  hot  water  to  a  thick  dough,  put  in  a  woolen 
stocking  and  bind  on  the  neck  at  night. 

MRvS.  W.  H.   BELDEN. 

GLOSS  STARCH. 

To  give  high  gloss  to  shirts,  collars  and  cuffs, 
add  a  little  dissolved  gum  arable  to  the  starch.  A 
bottle  of  this  should  be  kept  in  the  laundr3\  Prepare 
by  pouring  an  ounce  of  boiling  water  over  2  ounces 
of  white  gum  arable,  add  a  teaspoon  powdered  borax 
and  bottle  before  it  gets  quite  cold.  i  tablespoon  of 
this  added  to  a  quart  of  starch  gives  a  nice  gloss. 

MRS.  GEO.  BARNES. 

"Hot  sunshine  will  remove  scorch." 

"Clothes  dry  much  quicker  when  borax  is  added 
to  the  hot  starch  just  before  using." 

"To  remove  soot  from  carpet,  cover  thickly  with 
salt  and  then  brush  up." 

"When  a  felon  first  begins  to  make  its  appearance, 
take  a  lemon,  cut  off  one  end,  insert  the  finger,  and 
change  ever}'  three  hours." 

"To  remove  paint  or  grease  spots,  take  four 
tablespoons  alcohol  and  one  of  salt,  shake  well  together 
and  apply  with  a  sponge  or  brush." 


IINDEX, 


SOUPS. 
Tomato  Soup,  No.  i, 
"  "       No.  2, 

Tomato  Bisque, 
Vegetable  Soup, 
Potato  Soup,  No.  I, 
Chicken  Soup,  No.  i, 
Mock  Turtle  Soup, 
Chicken  Soup,  No.  2, 
Cabbage  Soup,  No.  i, 
"  "       No.  2, 

Pea  Soup, 
Clam  Soup, 
Potato  Soup,  No.  2, 
Turkey  Soup, 
Clam  Chowder, 
Bean  Soup, 
Celery  Soup, 
Black  Bean  Soup,  (fine,) 
Ham  and  Egg  Soup, 
Asparagus  Soup, 
Milk  Soup, 

Turnip  and  potato  vSoup, 
Parsnip  Stew, 
Lamb  Soup, 
Soup  Stock, 

FISH. 
Baked  Fish,  (a  la  creme,) 
Hollandaise  Sauce  for  Fish, 
Broiled  Oysters, 
Oyster  Fritters, 


GE 

" 

PAGE 

To  Fry  Oj'sters, 

i6 

5 

Rhode  Island  Fish  Cakes, 

i6 

5 

E  seal  loped  Fish, 

i6 

5 

Fried  vSalt  Cod  Fish, 

I? 

6 

Escalloped  Oysters,  No.  i. 

17 

6 

Baked  Fish, 

17 

6 

Escalloped  vSalmon, 

17 

6 

Escalloped  Oysters,  No.  2, 

17 

7 

Fish  Croquettes, 

17 

7 
7 

MEATS. 

7 

Roast  Turkey, Chicken  or  D 

uck, 21 

7 

Roast  Veal, 

21 

8 

Spiced  Veal, 

21 

S 

Veal  Cutlets, 

22 

8 

To  Warm-Over  Meat, 

22 

8 

Scalloped  Chicken, 

22 

9 

Roast  Pork, 

23 

9 

Roast  Lamb, 

23 

9 

Lamb  Stewed  with  Peas, 

23 

lO 

Frizzled  Beef, 

23 

lO 

Broiled  Beefsteak, 

23 

ID 

Grilled  Chicken, 

24 

ID 

Mutton  Pie  Plain, 

24 

II 

Chicken  Pie, 

24 

II 

Pot  Roast, 

24 

Mock  Duck, 

25 

Escalloped  Meat,  No.  i, 

25 

15 

"                  "        No.  2, 

25 

15 

Stuffed  Beef, 

25 

i6 

Beef  a  la  Mode, 

26 

i6 

Potted  Ham, 

26 

INDEX- HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


PAGR     1 

PAGE 

Pressed  Chicken, 

26 

BREAKFAvST  AND  TEA 

Veal  Pat  tie, 

27 

DISHES. 

Round  vSteak, 

27 

Duchess  Potatoes, 

47 

Fried  Tripe, 

27 

Escal  loped  Potatoes,  No.  i, 

47 

Mutton  Pie  witli  Tomatoes, 

27 

Potato  cakes. 

'17 

Meat  Pie, 

27 

Risotto  Napolitaine, 

48 

Ragout  of  Meat, 

27 

Graham  Griddle  Cakes, 

48 

Beefsteak  Smothered  in  Onions 

28 

Potato  Croquettes, 

48 

Beefsteak  Omelet, 

28 

Sweet  Breads  on  Toast, 

49 

Veal  Loaf,  (excellent,) 

28 

Croquettes, 

49 

Beef  Loaf, 

28 

Rice  Omelet, 

49 

Veal  Pattee, 

49 

Rice  Croquettes, 

50 

GRAVIEvS  AND  SAUCEvS 

Chicken  Croquettes,  No.  i. 

50 

FOR  MEATS. 

"             "                 No.  2, 

50 

Giblet  Sauce, 

33 

Chicken  vSouffle, 

51 

Brown  Gravy  Sauce, 

33 

Escallopcd  Potatoes,  No.  2, 

51 

Oyster  Sauce, 

33 

Cream  Potatoes, 

51 

Mint  Sauce, 

33 

Smothered  Sausage, 

51 

Caper  Sauce  for  Leg  of  Lamb, 

33 

Pressed  Chicken, 

52 

Gravy  for  Boiled  or  Baked  F'ish 

,34 

Beaf  Loaf, 

52 

Bread  Sauce, 

34 

Veal  Loaf, 

52 

Tomato  Sauce, 

34 

Apple  Fritters, 

52 

Tartare  Sauce, 

34 

Snowy  Omelet, 

52 

Beef  Steak  Omelet, 

53 

VEGETABLES. 

Meat  Omelet, 

53 

Ragout  of  Meat, 

53 

Vegetables,  preparing-cookiug 

,  37 

Omelet, 

53 

Potato  Souffle, 

38 

Pressed  Eggs, 

53 

Stuffed  and  Baked  Tomatoes, 

38 

]':gg  Omelet, 

53 

To  Boil  Cauliflower, 

38 

Welsh  Rare  Bit, 

54 

Stuffed  Potatoes, 

38 

Corn  Fritters, 

54 

Boiled  Dinner, 

39 

Corn  Oysters, 

54 

Boiling  Vegetables, 

39 

Ham  and  Egg  on  Toast, 

54 

Potato  Balls, 

39 

Baked  Omelet, 

54 

Fried  Parsnips, 

39 

Baked  Eggs, 

55 

A  nice  way  to  cook  Cabbage, 

40 

Waffles,  No.  i, 

55 

Stewed  Cabbage, 

40 

"        No.  2, 

55 

Tremont  Potatoes, 

40 

Baked  Rice  and  Tomatoes, 

40 

SALADS. 

Beat  Hash, 

.41 

Chicken  or  Veal  Salad, 

59 

Parsnips  Fritters, 

41 

Salad  Dressing,  No.  i, 

59 

Macaroni  Boiled, 

41 

No.  2, 

59 

Macaroni  in  Cream, 

41 

No.  3, 

60 

An  old-fashioned  Dish, 

41 

Cabbage  Salad,  No.  i, 

60 

Baked  Beans, 

42 

"      No.  2, 

60 

INDEX—HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


PAGE 

Cream  Salad, 

6o 

Boiled  Dressing, 

6i 

Salad  Dressing,  No. 

4. 

6i 

No. 

5 

6i 

Lobster  Salad, 

6i 

Potato  vSalad,  No.  i, 

62 

"          "       No.  2, 

62 

Salad  Dressing,  No. 

5. 

62 

Veal  Salad, 

62 

WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 

Remarks  64 

BREADS. 

Potato  Yeast,  No.  i,  65 

"  "       No.  2,  65 

Wheat  Bread,  No.  i,  65 

Bread  Twice  Raised,  66 

Wheat  Bread,  No.  2,  66 

Graham  Bread,  No.  i,  66 

"  "       No.  2,  66 

"       No.  3,  66 

Graham  Crackers,  67 

Graham  Bread,  No.  4,  67 

"       No.  5,  67 

Oat  Meal  Bread,  67 

Graham  Rolls,  67 

Baktd  Brown  Bread,  68 
Steamed  Brown  Bread,  No.  i,      68 

Brown  Bread,  No.  i,  68 

No.  2,  68 
Steamed  Brown  Bread,  No.  2,      68 

Brown  Bread,  No.  3,  69 

Indian  Meal  Rolls,  69 

Raised  Biscnit,  No.  i,  69 

Gems,  69 

Raised  Biscuit,  No.  2,  69 

Rye  Muffins,  70 
Johnny  Cake,  No.  i,  70 

No.  2,  70 

Raised  Cxriddle  Cakes,  70 

Wheat  Rolls,  70 

Newport  Rolls,  71 

German  Sponge,  71 

French  Rolls,  71 

Wheat  Muffins,  71 


PAGE 

Parker  House  Rolls,  No.  i,  71 

Breakfast  Muffins,  72 

Buns,  72 

Muffins,  72 

Parker  House  Rolls,  No.  2,  72 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit,  72 

Rolls,  73 

Top  Overs,  73 

Wheat  Gems,  73 

Parker  House  Rolls,  No.  3,  73 
Pop  Overs  or  Breakfast  Cakes,   74 

Breakfast  Pocket  Books,  74 

Pan  Cakes,  74 

Pop  Overs,  74 

Sally  Lunn.  74 

Green  Corn  Griddle  Cakes,  75 

Corn  Fritters,  75 

Good  Corn  Bread,  75 

PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES. 

Tirebot  Cream  Pudding,  77 

Baked  Apple  Dumpling,  77 

Baked  Suet  Pudding,  78 

Snow  Pudding,  78 

Cream  Tapioca,  78 

Baked  Indian  Pudding,  79 

Delicate  Indian  Pudding,  79 

Chocolate  Pudding,  No.  i,  79 

Graham  Pudding,  79 

Chocolate  Pudding,  No.  2,  80 

Corn  Starch  Pudding,  80 

Judge  Peter',s  Pudding,  80 

Bread  Pudding,  80 

Rice  Pxidding,  81 

Prune  Pudding,  No.  i,  81 

No.  2,  81 

Huckleberry  Pudding,  81 

Quaking  Pudding,  82 

Steam  Pudding,  82 

Cottage  Pudding,  83 

K'ingsley  Pudding,  83 

Graham  Pudding,  83 

Sweet  Corn  Pudding,  83 

Berry  Pudding,  83 

Custard  Souffle  Pudding,  84 


INDEX-HATFIELD   COOK  BOOK. 


Ap])lt'  PiKldiiiir, 

Caraintl  Puddinj^, 

Orange  Pudding,  No.  i, 
No.  2, 

Pineapple  Pudding, 

Indian  Piulding, 

I^nglish  Plum  Pudiling, 

Suet  Piulding, 

Imperial  Rice  Pudding, 

Crenie,  diplomate. 

Cracker  Piulding, 

Pudding  vSauces,  No.  i, 

"  "  No.  2, 

No.  3, 

No.  4, 

Rice  I'udding, 

pip:vS. 

Pie  Crust, 

Puff  Paste,  (very  nice,) 
Nice  Mince  Pie, 
Mince  Meat  for  Pies, 
Strawljerry  Cream  Pie, 
Cream  Pie,  No.  r, 
"  "     No.  2, 

"     No.  3, 
Squash  Pie,  No.  i, 
Cranberry  Pie, 
Lemon  Meringue  Pie, 
Rhubarb  Pie, 
Lemon  Pie,  No.  i. 
Mock  Mince  Pie, 
Squash  Pie,  No.  2, 
Cream  Pie,  No.  4, 
Custard  Pie, 
Chocolate  Pie, 
Cocoauut  Pie, 
Chicken  Pie, 
Apple  Pudding  Pies, 
Rice  Pie, 
Lemon  Pie,  No.  2, 

PLAIN  and  FANCY  DI^SST 
Pine  Apple  Cream, 
Whipped  Apple  Cream, 
Coffee  Blanc  Mange, 


84 
84 

85 
85 
85 
85 
86 
86 
86 
87 
87 
87 
87 
87 
88 
88 


91 
91 
91 
92 
92 
92 
92 
93 
93 
93 
93 
93 
94 
94 
94 
94 
94 
94 
95 
95 
95 
95 
95 

:rts. 

99 
99 
99 


Tapioca  Cream, 
Prune  Whip, 
Cheese  Straws,  No.  r, 

"  "        No.  2, 

Short  Cake, 

Strawberry  Short  Cake, 
Rasp1)erry  Tapioca, 
Chocolate  Blanc  Mange, 
Orange  Custard, 
Baked  Custard, 
Boiled  Custard, 
Coffee  Puff,  No.  i, 

"         "      No.  2, 
Coffee  Jelly, 
Pineapple  Ice, 
Milk  Sherbet,  No.  i, 
Beaten  Cream, 
Milk  Sherbet,  No.  2, 
Ice  Cream,  No.  i, 
Raspberry  Puff, 
Coffee  Ice  Cream, 
Caramel  Ice  Cream, 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream, 
Strawberry  Sherbet, 
Ice  Cream,  No.  2, 
Lemon  Ice,  No.  i, 
Lemon  Ice,  No.  2, 
Ice  Cream,  No.  3, 
Nut  Ice  Cream. 

CAKES. 
Macaroons, 
Cocoanut  Cake,  No.  i. 
Pop  Doodle, 
Hermit  Cake, 
Pound  Cake, 
Fillin.g  for  Cake, 
Black  Fruit  Cake, 
Black  or  Wedding  Cake, 
Walnut  Cake,  No.  i. 
Chocolate  Cake,  No.  i. 
Sponge  Cake,  No.  i, 
Angel  Cake,  No.  i. 
Orange  Cake, 
Quick  Loaf  Cake, 


PAGE 

icx> 
loo 
100 
ror 
lor 

lOI 

lol 
102 
102 
102 
102 

103 
103 
103 
103 
103 
103 

104 
104 
104 

104 

104 

105 
105 
105 
105 

106 
106 
106 


109 
109 
109 
1 10 
110 
no 
no 

1 10 

11 1 

11 1 
III 
III 

1 12 
1 12 


INDEX— HATFIELD    COOK  BOOK. 


PAGE 

PAGE 

Sunshine  Cake, 

12 

Sour  Milk  Cake, 

121 

Cream  Puffs, 

12 

Spice  Cake, 

122 

Pork  Cake, 

13 

Chocolate  Marble  Cake, 

122 

Chocolate  Cake,  (deviPs  food, ) 

13 

Layer  Cake,  No.  3, 

122 

Halligar  Cake, 

13 

Angel  Cake,  No.  i. 

122 

Cake  without  Egtjs, 

13 

Marble  Cake, 

122 

Cocoanut  Cake,  No.  2, 

13 

White  Cake, 

122 

Coffee,  Cake, 

14 

Fruit  Cake,  No.  2, 

123 

Fig  Cake, 

14 

Walnvit  Cake,  No.  2, 

123 

Composition  Cake, 

14 

Angel  Cake,  No.  2, 

123 

Chocolate  Cake,  No.  2, 

14 

Dried  Apple  Fruit  Cake, 

123 

Cream  Sponge  Cake, 

14 

No  Egg  Fruit  Cake, 

123 

Fruit  Cake, 

15 

Black  Hill  Cake, 

124 

Raised  Cake,  No.  i. 

15 

Boiled  Frosting, 

124 

"         "         No.  2, 

15 

DOUGHNUTS,  GINGER 

Raised  Dough  Cake, 

15 

BREADS,  COOKIES. 

Sponge  Cake,                                  ] 

15 

Doughnvits,  (very  fine,) 

127 

Raised  Loaf  Cake,                         ] 

16 

Doughnuts,  No.  i. 

127 

Lemon  Cake,  No.  i,                      : 

16 

Doughnuts,  No.  2, 

127 

Delicate  Cake, 

16 

Doughnuts,  No.  3, 

127 

Caramel  Sponge  Cake, 

16 

Ginger  Wafers, 

128 

Plain  Cake, 

17 

Cream  Ginger  Bread, 

128 

Sponge  La^-er  Cake, 

17 

Ginger  Snaps,  No.  i. 

128 

Cold  Water  Sponge  Cake, 

17 

Ginger  Cake, 

128 

Laj'er  Cake,  No.  i. 

[17 

Ginger  Drop  Cakes, 

128 

One  Egg  Cake, 

[17 

Olive  Ginger  Bread, 

128 

Swiss  Cake, 

ti8 

Ginger  Snaps,  No.  2, 

T29 

Albion  Cake, 

[18 

Cookies,  No.  i. 

129 

Cake  Filling, 

[18 

Marshmallow  Cookies, 

129 

Walnut  Filling  for  Cake, 

18 

vSugar  Cookies, 

129 

Chocolate  Filling, 

18 

Cookies,  No.  2, 

129 

Cream  Chocolate  P'illing, 

[18 

Sour  Cream  Cookies, 

130 

Filling  for  Layer  Cake, 

rig 

Tart  Crust, 

130 

Caramel  Cake, 

19 

Love  Knots, 

130 

Caramel  Filling, 

19 

Cookies,  No.  3, 

130 

Layer  Cake,  No.  2, 

[19 

Crullers,  No.  i. 

130 

Snow  Cake, 

[19 

Crullers,  No.  2, 

130 

Cold  Water  Cake, 

[20 

Crullers,  No.  3, 

131 

Pearl  Cake, 

[20 

Crullers,  No.  4, 

131 

Layer  Cake,  No.  3, 

[20 

Nut  Crackers, 

131 

White  Fruit  Cake, 

20 

Brambles, 

131 

Lemon  Cake,  No  2, 

[20 

PICKLES. 

Rolled  Jelly  Cake,  No.  i, 

r2i 

Higdon,  Pickles, 

133 

"         "         "       No.  2, 

[21 

Piccalilli, 

133 

Queen  Cake, 

121 

Spiced  currants. 

133 

INDEX— HATFIELD    COOK   }iOOK. 


PACK 

PACE 

French  Chow  Cht)\v, 

',i4 

To  Make  Coffee  1)y  I'iltering, 

'47 

Grape  Catsup, 

i.U 

To  Make  Tea, 

U7 

Cold  Catsup, 

134 

Chocolate, 

147 

vSweet  Pickled  IVaclies, 

135 

Chili  Sauce, 

135 

CONFECTIONERV. 

Sweet  Pickle,  (citron,  ) 

r35 

h'rench  Vanilla  Cream, 

149 

Mustard  Pickle, 

135 

Orange  Drops, 

149 

Pickle  Lilly, 

136 

Fudge,  No.  I, 

149 

Piccalilli,  (without  cookinj^, ) 

136 

No.  2, 

150 

Musk  Melon  Tickle, 

136 

Peanut  Taffy, 

150 

Cucumber  Pickles, 

136 

Walnut  Cream, 

150 

Onion  I'ickle, 

137 

Salted  Peanuts, 

150 

Glaci  Nuts, 

151 

PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES. 

Butter  Scotch, 

151 

Preparing  Fruit  for  Preserving 

139 

Fudge,  No.  3, 

151 

Amount  of  Sugar  to  a  Quart  Jar 

140 

Cream  Taffy, 

151 

Orange  Marmalade, 

140 

French  Cream  Candy  Cooked 

151 

Gooseberry  Jam, 

140 

Molasses  Cand}-, 

152 

Currant  Jelly, 

141 

Chocolate  Caramels, 

152 

Blackberry  Preserves, 

141 

Molasses,  Taffy, 

152 

Lemon  Jelly,  No.  i, 

141 

Peanut  Candy, 

152 

Lemon  Jelly,  No.  2, 

141 

Panochee  Candy, 

152 

Quince  Honey, 

141 

Salted  Almonds, 

153 

Green  Grape  Marmalade, 

142 

Cocoanut,  Cakes, 

153 

To  Preserve  Blackberries, 

142 

Nut  Candy 

153 

Buttercup  Jelly, 

142 

Peppermints, 

153 

Cider  Jelly, 

142 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Cider  Apple  Sauce, 
Orange  Jelly, 

143 

143 

To  Exterminate  Red  Ants, 
vSoda, 

155 

Preserved  Pears, 

143 

155 

Currant  Conserve, 

143 

Remedy  for  Cough, 

155 

Laxative  Fig  Conserve, 

155 

BEVERAGES. 

Ham  Brine, 

156 

Sausage, 

156 

Beef  Tea, 

145 

Pickle  for  Ham, 

156 

Beef  Extract, 

145 

Sand  Bag  for  the  vSick  Room, 

■56 

Raspberry  Vinegar, 

145 

Japanese  Cleansing  Fluid, 

156 

Red  Raspberry  Shrub, 

145 

Washing  P'luid, 

157 

Currant  Shrub 

146 

Poultice  for  vSore  Throat, 

157 

Lemon  Syrup, 

146 

Gloss  Starch, 

157 

Blackberry  Cordial, 

146 

Mead, 

146 

Indian  Meal  Gruel, 

146 

Milk  Porridge, 

147 

Soda  Cream, 

147 

To  Make  Coffee, 

147 

GEO.    IN.    UUCIA, 

We  make  a  specialty  of 

*  HMctures  anb  jframcs  * 

And  carry  in  stock  a  large  assortment. 

Artists^  Supplies,  Stationery,  Fancy  Goods,  Toys,  Etc. 


GBO.    IN.    UUCIA, 

229  WAIN  STREET,  NORTHAMPTON. 

B.  E.  Cook  &  Son, 

^    ^    ^ 

Watches  and  Clocks, .  . 
Jewelry  and  Silverware, 
Optical  Goods 

^    ^    ^ 

1 1  z  jMain  Street,  JVortbampton,  JMass. 

F^OR  Jewelry,  Optical  Goods, 
Stationery,  Cameras  and 

Camera  Supplies, 

CALL    ON 

F.     W.  ROBERTS, 

27  jMain  Street,  JSorthamptoti,  JMass. 


ff        HATFIELD,  MASS.        «r 


J.    H.    HOWARD, 


DFALER    IN 


Choice  Groceries^  Crockery^  Dry  Goods^ 
Boots,  Shoes,  Hardware,  Etc* 


Chase  &  Sanborn  Teas  and  Coffees. 
ARTHUR     M.     WARB, 

Dealer  in 

Beef,  pork,  Ram,  Veal,  Lamb,   provisions 
and  6ggs, 

52  MAPI^n  STRHUT,  FhORimCE,  MASS. 


Vegeta1)les  and  Fruit  of  all  kindB  in  their  season. 
A  nice  line  of  High  Grade  Canned  Goods. 

specialties: — 

Ware's  Cooked  and  Pressed  Meats,  Boiled  Ham,  Sliced  Dried  Beef. 

These  goods  are  as  good  as  I  can  make  or  buy. 
I  sell  them  as  reasouaVjlc,  as  I  can,  and  do  a 
satisfactory  business. 

TELEPHONE    1  19-5. 


XonbergaiVs  Ikino  St  HDarket. 

<Xlc  have  all  hinds  of  fieh,  in 
their  season,  fresb  every  day. 

JVE  HA]'E  THE  EXPERIENCE  OF  SEVENTEEN  YEARS, 
THE  LONGEST  OF  ANYONE  IN  TOWN,  TO  AID  US 
IN  MAKING  A  SPECIALTY  OF  OBTAINING  THE 
BEST  GOODS  POSSIBLE. 


IVe  have  also  a  complete  Hue  of 

Groceries,  fruits  and  "Vegetables. 


Give  us  a  trial .     Our  team  runs  tivice  a  week  to  all  surrounding  toiv7ts. 
Telephone  Connection. 


WE    BUY  AND 


WE  SELL 


OR  CA8 


r\ 


\j 


m 


]S[o  orders  solicited. 
]So  goods  delivered. 


WE  CAN  SELL  GROCERIES  TO  THOSE  HA  VING    THEIR 

OWN  TEAM,  JUST  ONE  PROFIT  LOWER 

THAN  OTHERS. 

AND    WE    DO     IT  T 

It  pays  to  trade  ivhere  you  do  not  pay  for  delivering  to  some  one  else 


TXC^T^^    STORE, 

COt?JMEF{    IWflF^i^eT    AJMD    WALi|SiUT    STl^EETS. 


Good  Cooking    vs.     Stylish  Dress. 


Good  cooking  will  surely  be  promoted 
by  use  of  the  many  excellent  receipts  printed 
in  this  book. 

Stylish  dress  is  just  as  surely  promoted 
by  frequeiit  visits  to  the  dry  goods  house  of 


J.  E.  LAMBIE  &  CO., 

NORTHAMPTON,  -  MASS. 

THE    LATEST    NOVELTIES, 

BOTH  ORNAMENTAL  AND 
PRACTICAL,  AS  WELL  AS 
EMBROIDER  Y  MA  TE  RIALS 
OE  EVERY  DESCRIPTION, 

FANS,    LACES,    RIBBONS,    GLOVES, 

Can  always  be  found  at 


E.     P.    COREL-7^ND*S, 

104  Main  Street,  Northampton,  Mass. 


J.    G.     S7VYIXH, 


.    .    .    DEALER    IN 


Beef,  Veal,  Pork,  Lamb,  Poultry,  Etc. 


HATFIELD,  MASS. 


•  • • garpenTer  •  • • 


FOR  A    .    .    . 
FIRST  CLASS 


CALL  ON  OCR   TOWNSMAN, 


EDGAR    LiYjVIAlSl, 

Weather  Strips   a  Specialty.. 


G.     H,     HMRT^aZELL, 


DEALER  IN 


Breab,  pies,  Cahes,  Crackers,  Etc 


351  Bridie  Street,       Northampton,  Mass. 


Deuefs    Stabk 


NORTHAMPTON. 


Teams  ot"  every  description,  with  or  without  (hiver. 
The  best  place  in  town  to  feed  or  hitcli  vour  horse. 


FRANK     D.     DEUEL,     Prop. 

TELEPHONE     128-2. 


.    .    MANDELL'S    .    . 

IS    A 

GOOD   PLACE       - 

TO    BUY 

-       GOOD  SHOES. 

Mansion  House  Block,  Northampton,  Mass. 

CKe  sell  plants,  Cut  flowers,  "Jardiniers  and 
Ornamental  Shrubbery, 

Our  prices  are  as  low  as  it  is  possible  to  inakc  them. 
Visitors  are  always  welcome  at  our  Green  House. 


FIELD,  THE   FLORIST, 

Store,  279  Main  St.,      Green^house,  Cor.  Prospect  and  Massasoit  Sts., 

NORTHAMPTON,    MASS. 


M.   Howes  &  Son, 

Dry  (S@@dSp  Or@c€ri' 

Boots  and  Shoes, 
HaPdxxtaPe,  Ete. 


MAIN  STREET,  WHATELY,  MASS. 


North  Hatfield  Store. 


This  is  our  first  ''^acT''  in  a  Coo/c  Book, 
It  is  hard  to  write  the  right  words^  but 
zve  wish  you  to  remember  that  ive  liave  all 
goods  usually  found  iu  a  country  store. 

W.  B.  MeGLEL2LAN. 


G.    H-    B0VDE]S1, 

WHOLESALE   AND   RETAIL   DEALER   IN 

lee  Gream,  ^nt  and  Gonfeetionery. 

197  CQain  Street, 
fiopthampton,  «  (Tiass. 


1l3aibvvare,  jfainiino  XTools,    ^ 

SEEDS,  BICYCLES, 
SPORTING  GOODS, 

GRAIN,  FEED,  LIHE  AND  CEHENT. 


J.    R.    SULlilVfllSl, 

3  WAIN  STREET,  NORTHAMPTON,  WASS. 

Telephone  6-2. 

^        ESSENTIALS.        ^ 
FOOD!  HEATT 

WitJi  this  Book  and  a  ^' Richmond^''  Range 
you  can  ynake  the  best  food  on  earth. 

THE  KELSEY  HOT  AIR  GENERATOR 

Is  the   Greatest  Heater  on  Earth. 


J.  H.  &  W.  H.  RILEY, 

RELIABLE  PLUMBERS, 
193  main  St.,  fiorthampton,  mass. 


REFRIGERATORS,       ICE  CREAN  FREEZERS. 


1kino8le)2'3  Sarsapadlla, 

50  CENTS. 


We  wish  everj'one  knew  tlie  actual  worth  of  this  preparation. 

Other  Sarsaparillas  would  have  a  small  sale.  That  sounds 
large,  but  it's  a  fact.  Try  a  bottle  of  it  and  j'ou  will  sa}-,  as  one  man 
did  in  our  store, ^ — "I  have  tried  three  or  four  different  makes  of 
Sarsaparilla,  but  yours  takes  right  hold.     It  seems  to  be  all  medicine." 

We  make  this  Sarsaparilla  and  refund  your  money  if  you  do 
not  find  it  at  the  least,  the  equal  of  any  dollar  »Sarsaparilla. 

People  who  have  tried  it  say  it  is  the  best  one  made. 


CH7XS.     B.     KIINGSL-EV, 

Prescription  Druggist, 

140  Main  Street,  Northampton. 


A  GOOD  COOK  USES 
THE  BEST  EL  OUR.  . 

Pillsbury's  Best 
and  White  Lily 

Are  Still  al  the  Head. 

Commercial  Fertilizers 

Eor  All  Crops. 
WOOD  AND   LIME  ASHES. 


All  kinds  of    .     .     . 

.  .  FEED  .  . 

aheays  on  Iiand. 

/'< ) I  L  TR  ) ' EOOn  TLIA  T  Jl ELL 

iMAKE  HENS  LAV 

WHEN  EGGS  ARE  HIGH. 


MOWING  MACHINES, 
TEDDERS,  HORSE  RAKES 
WEEDERS, 
CULTH'ATORS, 

and  all  oilier 

Agricultural  Implements. 


S.  i&   H.   A.  WIUDBR, 

North  Hatfield,    Mass. 


CHAS.  R.  FITTS, 


Furniture,  Coroets Draoeiies 


1 


FURNISHING     UNDERTAKER. 


Northampton,  Mass. 


:LT 


IN 


Ladies^  Neckwear  and  Infants^  Goods 


AT 


E.  C  POMEROY'S, 

122  Main  Street,  Northampton,  Mass. 


A.  G.  FEARING, 

Northampton,  Hass. 


Dry  Goods,  flotions  and  Carpets. 

All  at  the  Lowest  Cash  Prices. 

No  fictitious  quotations  allowed  in  this  store. 

We  show  goods  with  pleasure. 


YOU    WILL    FIND 


EVERYTHING 

IN     THE 

.  .  .  DRUG    LINE  .  .  . 

AT 

COB  URN    6c    GRAVES. 

OPP.    COURT    HOUSE,  NORTHAMPTON,    MASS. 

WHEN  IN  WANT  OF  THE  BESl 

TEAS  AND   COEEEES 

OR   CHOICE   GROCERIES, 

FRUITS    AND    VEGETABLES    IN    THEIR    SEASON, 

CO  TO 

K.   H.   STOINB'S   GROCERV, 

28  Main  Street,    Northampton. 

for  batches,  Clocks^  "Jewelry.  Silverware, 
Spectacles  or  6ye  Glasses. 


.    .   TRY    .    . 

C    H.    GOULD, 

133  Main  Street,  Northampton,  Mass. 

Rxpcrt  Watch  Re])aircr. 
Satisfaction  Guaranteed. 


GHAUNGEY    H.    PIERGE, 


^'p%"o^s',Tr:^::o°mAL  HAL.  NORTHAMPTON-   MASS. 


INSURANCE, 

REAL    ESTATE, 

INVESTMENTS. 


NOTARY    PUBLIC. 

All  business  pertaining  to  Estates  and  Trusts  carefully  managed. 

.     .    OUH     SHOES    .     . 

.lA'/-:   nilAT  IV E  REPRESENT 
THEM  TO  BE,        .... 

Che  Best  for  the  price,  that  JVIoney  Can  Buy, 


R.    H.    DRURY  cSt  CO., 

Northampton,  Mass. 


6681  ^    AON 


FORBES  &  WALLACE, 

Springfield,  1899. 


Dad:— 

You  know  Forbes  &  Wallace's  store  in  Springfield! 
You  know  you  can  get  almost  everything  there!  You 
know  that  prices  are  generally  lower  there  than 
elsewhere  for  the  same  articles!  Do  you  also  know 
that  they  take  anything  back  which  you  bu}^  of  them 
and  do  not  find  satisfactory?  Do  you  know  that  they 
advertise: — 

"Your  money  back,  if  when  3'on  get  home  3^ou'd 
rather  have  it  than  what  you  got  for  it"? 


FORBES  &  WALLACE, 

Main,  Vernon  and  Pynchon  Streets, 

Springfield,  Mass. 


I 


Copies   of  this    valuable     Cook 
Book    containing     tested     Receipts 
may  be  had  from  7nembers  of 
''REAL  folks;' 

LL at  field, 
Hampshire  Co.  Mass. 


